THE APARTMENT: Billy Wilder and I.A.L. Diamond
THE APARTMENT: A DESK COMPUTER A man's hand is punching out a series of figures on the
DESK 861: Like every other desk, it has a small name plate attached to the side. This one reads C.C. BAXTER.
KIRKEBY: ( calling off ) Come on, Sylvia. It's getting late.
KIRKEBY: Cut it out, Sylvia. We got to get out of here.
SYLVIA: What's the panic? I'm going to have another martooni.
KIRKEBY: Please, Sylvia! It's a quarter to First you can't wait to get me up here, and now rush, rush, rush! Makes a person feel cheap.
SYLVIA: ( dropping slivers of ice into the pitcher ) First you can't wait to get me up here, and now rush, rush, rush! Makes a person feel cheap.
KIRKEBY: Sylvia sweetie it's not that but I promised the guy I'd be out of here by eight o'clock, What guy? Whose apartment is this, What's the difference? Some schnook that works in the office.
SYLVIA: ( pouring martini ) What guy? Whose apartment is this, ( exasperated ) What's the difference? Some schnook that works in the office.
KIRKEBY: ( exasperated ) What's the difference? Some schnook that works in the office.
MRS. LIEBERMAN: Good evening, Mr. Baxter.
BUD: Good evening, Mrs. Lieberman.
MRS. LIEBERMAN: Some weather we're having. Must be from all the meshugass at Cape You locked out of your apartment?
BUD: No, no. Just waiting for a friend. Good night, Mrs. Lieberman.
MRS. LIEBERMAN: Good night, Mr. Baxter.
KIRKEBY: Come on come on, Sylvia!
SYLVIA: Some setup you got here. A real, honest-to-goodness love nest.
KIRKEBY: He locks the door, slips the key under the doormat.
SYLVIA: ( still cha cha-ing ) You're one button off, Mr. Kirkeby.
SYLVIA: You got to watch those things. Wives are getting smarter all the time. Take Mr. Bernheim in the Claims Department came home one night with lipstick on his shirt told his wife he had a shrimp cocktail for lunch so she took it out to the lab and had it analyzed so now she has the house in Great Neck and the children and the new Jaguar
KIRKEBY: Don't you ever stop talking?
KIRKEBY: Where do you live?
SYLVIA: I told you with my mother.
KIRKEBY: Where does she live?
SYLVIA: A hundred and seventy-ninth street the Bronx.
KIRKEBY: All right I'll take you to the Like hell you will. You'll buy me a cab.
SYLVIA: Like hell you will. You'll buy me a cab.
KIRKEBY: Why do all you dames have to live in the Bronx?
SYLVIA: You mean you bring other girls up Certainly not. I'm a happily married man.
KIRKEBY: Certainly not. I'm a happily married man.
BUD: Oh. Hello there, Mrs. Dreyfuss.
MRS. DREYFUSS: Something the matter?
BUD: I seem to have dropped my key. Oh here it is.
MRS. DREYFUSS: Such a racket I heard in your place maybe you had burglars.
BUD: Oh, you don't have to worry about that nothing in there that anybody would want to steal. Good night, Mrs. Dreyfuss.
KIRKEBY: The little lady forgot her galoshes.
BUD: Mr. Kirkeby, I don't like to complain but you were supposed to be out of here by eight.
KIRKEBY: I know, Buddy-boy, I know. But those things don't always run on schedule like a Greyhound bus.
BUD: I don't mind in the summer but on a rainy night and I haven't had any dinner yet
KIRKEBY: Sure, sure. Look, kid I put in a good word for you with Sheldrake, in Personnel.
BUD: ( perking up ) Mr. Sheldrake?
KIRKEBY: That's right. We were discussing our department manpower-wise and promotion-wise and I told him what a bright boy you were. They're always on the lookout for young executives.
BUD: Thank you, Mr. Kirkeby.
KIRKEBY: ( starting toward door ) You're on your way up, Buddy-boy. And you're practically out of liquor.
BUD: I know. Mr. Eichelberger in the Mortgage Loan Department last night he had a little Halloween party here
KIRKEBY: Well, lay in some vodka and some vermouth and put my name on it.
BUD: Yes, Mr. Kirkeby. You still owe me for the last two bottles
KIRKEBY: I'll pay you on Friday. And whatever happened to those little cheese crackers you used to have around?
BUD: ( making a mental note ) Cheese crackers.
DR. DREYFUSS: Good evening, Baxter.
BUD: Hi, Doc. Had a late call?
DR. DREYFUSS: Yeah. Some clown at Schrafft's 57th Street ate a club sandwich, and forgot to take out the toothpick.
BUD: ( sets down wastebasket ) 'Bye, Doc.
DR. DREYFUSS: ( indicating bottles ) Say, Baxter the way you're belting that stuff, you must have a pair of cast-iron kidneys.
BUD: Oh, that's not me. It's just that once in a while, I have some people in for a drink.
DR. DREYFUSS: As a matter of fact, you must be an iron man all around. From what I hear through the walls, you got something going for you every night.
BUD: I'm sorry if it gets noisy
DR. DREYFUSS: Sometimes, there's a twi-night A nebbish like you!
BUD: ( uncomfortable ) Yeah. Well see you, Doc. ( starts to back through door )
DR. DREYFUSS: You know, Baxter I'm doing some research at the Columbia Medical Center and I wonder if you could do us a favor?
BUD: DR. DREYFUSS
DR. DREYFUSS: When you make out your will and the way you're going, you should would you mind leaving your body to the University?
BUD: My body? I'm afraid you guys would be disappointed. Good night, Doc.
DR. DREYFUSS: Slow down, kid.
ANNOUNCER: from the world's greatest library of film classics, we proudly present Greta Garbo John Barrymore Joan Crawford Wallace Beery and Lionel Barrymore in
GRAND HOTEL!: There is an extended fanfare. Bud leans forward, chewing excitedly on a chicken leg.
ANNOUNCER: But first, a word from our sponsor. If you smoke the modern way, don't be fooled by phony filter claims
ANNOUNCER: And now, Grand Hotel starring Greta Garbo, John Barrymore, Joan Wallace Beery, and Lionel Barrymore. But first a word from our alternate sponsor. Friends, do you have wobbly dentures ?
BUD: Hello? Hello? yes, this is
DOBISCH: Hiya, Buddy-boy. I'm in this bar on Sixty-first Street and I got to thinking about you and I figured I'd give you a little buzz.
BUD: Well, that's very nice of you but who is this?
DOBISCH: Dobisch Joe Dobisch, in Oh, yes, Mr. Dobisch. I didn't recognize your voice
BUD: ( snapping to attention ) Oh, yes, Mr. Dobisch. I didn't recognize your voice
DOBISCH: That's okay, Buddy-boy. Now like I was saying, I'm in this joint on Sixty-first and I think I got she's a skater with the Ice and I thought maybe I could bring her up for a quiet drink.
BUD: I'm sorry, Mr. Dobisch. You know I like to help you guys out but it's sort of late so why don't we make it some other time?
DOBISCH: Buddy-boy she won't keep that long not even on ice. Listen, kid, I can't pass this up she looks like Marilyn Monroe.
BUD: I don't care if it is Marilyn Monroe I'm already in bed and I've taken a sleeping pill so I'm afraid the answer is no.
DOBISCH: ( pulling rank ) Look, Baxter we're making out the monthly efficiency rating and I'm putting you in the top ten. Now you don't want to louse yourself up, do you?
BUD: Of course not. But how can I be efficient in the office if I don't get enough sleep at night?
DOBISCH: It's only eleven and I just want the place for forty-five minutes.
BLONDE: I'm getting lonely. Who are you talking to, anyway?
DOBISCH: My mother.
BLONDE: That's sweet. That's real sweet.
DOBISCH: ( into phone again ) Make it thirty minutes. What do you say, Bud?
BUD: ( a last stand ) I'm all out of liquor and there's no clean glasses no cheese crackers no nothing.
DOBISCH: Let me worry about that. Just leave the key under the mat and clear out.
BUD: ( into phone; resigned ) Yes, Mr. Dobisch.
BUD: ( muttering to himself ) Anything you say, Mr. Dobisch no trouble at all, Mr. Dobisch be my guest
BUD: We never close at Buddy-boy's looks like Marilyn Monroe
BLONDE: This the place?
DOBISCH: ( to cab driver ) How much?
CABBIE: Seventy cents.
DOBISCH: Get the money, will you?
DOBISCH: Watch those stingers!
DOBISCH: Give him a buck.
DOBISCH: Now put it back, honey. Atta girl.
BLONDE: You sure this is a good idea?
DOBISCH: Can't think of a better one.
BLONDE: ( holding door open for him ) I mean - barging in on your mother in the middle of the night?
DOBISCH: ( edging past her with stingers ) Don't worry about the old lady. One squawk from her, and she's out of a job.
DOBISCH: Get the key, will you.
DOBISCH: Not there. Under the mat.
BLONDE: ( puzzled ) Under the mat? ( picks up key )
DOBISCH: ( impatiently ) Open up, open up we haven't got all night.
BLONDE: ( suspiciously ) So this is your mother's apartment?
DOBISCH: That's right. Maria Ouspenskaya.
BLONDE: ( sticking her head in ) Hiya, Ouspenskaya. ( calling to his wife, off-screen ) Mildred he's at it again.
DR. DREYFUSS: ( calling to his wife, off-screen ) Mildred he's at it again.
BUD: ( hoarsely ) Good morning, Mr. Kirkeby.
KIRKEBY: ( as if he just knew him vaguely ) Oh, how are you, Baxter. They keeping you busy these days?
BUD: Yes, sir. They are indeed.
FRAN: ( rattling it off ) Morning, Mr. Kessel Morning, Miss Robinson Morning, Mr. Kirkeby Morning, Mr. Williams Morning, Miss Livingston Morning, Mr. McKellway Morning, Mr. Pirelli Morning, Mrs. Schubert
FRAN: Morning, Mr. Baxter.
BUD: Morning, Miss Kubelik.
STARTER: ( working the clicker ) That's all. Take it away.
FRAN: ( shutting the door ) Watch the door, please. Blasting
BUD: ( studying her ) What did you do to your hair?
FRAN: It was making me nervous, so I chopped it off. Big mistake, huh?
BUD: I sort of like it.
FRAN: Say, you got a lulu.
BUD: Yeah. I better not get too close.
FRAN: Oh, I never catch colds.
BUD: Really? I was looking at some figures from the Sickness and Accident Claims Division do you know that the average New Yorker between the ages of twenty and fifty has two and a half colds a That makes me feel just terrible.
FRAN: That makes me feel just terrible.
BUD: Well, to make the figures come out even since I have no colds a year some poor slob must have five colds a year.
FRAN: Well, to make the figures come out even since I have no colds a year some poor slob must have five colds a year.
BUD: That's me.
FRAN: You should have stayed in bed this I should have stayed in bed last
BUD: I should have stayed in bed last
FRAN: Nineteen. Watch your step.
FRAN: ( all in the day's work ) And watch your hand, Mr. Kirkeby!
KIRKEBY: ( innocently ) I beg your pardon?
FRAN: One of these days I'm going to shut those doors on you and
FRAN: Twenty next.
KIRKEBY: That Kubelik boy! Would I like to get her on a slow elevator to Oh, yes. She's the best operator in the building.
BUD: Oh, yes. She's the best operator in the building.
KIRKEBY: I'm a pretty good operator myself but she just won't give me a tumble date-wise.
BUD: Maybe you're using the wrong A lot of guys around here have tried it all kinds of approaches no dice. What is she trying to prove?
KIRKEBY: A lot of guys around here have tried it all kinds of approaches no dice. What is she trying to prove?
BUD: Could be she's just a nice, respectable girl there are millions of them.
KIRKEBY: Listen to him. Little Lord
BUD: ( cupping hand over phone mouthpiece ) Hello, Mr. Dobisch? This is Baxter, on the nineteenth floor.
DOBISCH: Oh, Buddy-boy. I was just about to call you. I'm sorry about that mess on the living room wall. You see, my little friend, she kept insisting Picasso was a bum so she started to do that mural but I'm sure it will wash off just eyebrow pencil.
BUD: It's not Picasso I'm calling about. It's the key to my apartment you were supposed to leave it under the mat.
DOBISCH: I did, didn't I? I distinctly remember bending over and putting it there
BUD: Oh, I found a key there, all right only it's the wrong key.
DOBISCH: It is? Well, how about that? No wonder I couldn't get into the executive washroom this morning.
BUD: And I couldn't get into my apartment so at four a. m. I had to wake up the landlady and give her a whole song and dance about going out to mail a letter and the door slamming shut.
DOBISCH: That's a shame. I'll send the key right down. And about your I'm sending that efficiency report right up to Mr. Sheldrake, in Personnel. I wouldn't be surprised if you heard from him before the day is over.
BUD: Thank you, Mr. Dobisch.
MESSENGER: From Mr. Dobisch.
BUD: ( thermometer in mouth )
BUD: ( thermometer in mouth ) To Mr. Dobisch.
VANDERHOF: Dear Mr. MacIntosh Vanderhof, Public Relations. Oh, yes, Baxter. Just a minute. All right, Miss Finch type up what we got so far. Now what is it, Baxter?
BUD: Look, Mr. Vanderhof I've got you down here for tonight but I'm going to be using the place myself so I'll have to cancel.
VANDERHOF: Cancel? But it's her birthday I already ordered the cake
BUD: I hate to disappoint you I mean, many happy returns but not That's not like you, Baxter. Just the other day, at the staff meeting, I was telling Mr. Sheldrake what a reliable man you were.
VANDERHOF: That's not like you, Baxter. Just the other day, at the staff meeting, I was telling Mr. Sheldrake what a reliable man you were.
BUD: Thank you, Mr. Vanderhof. But I'm sick I have this terrible cold and a fever and I got to go to bed right after work.
VANDERHOF: Buddy-boy, that's the worst thing you can do. If you got a cold, you should go to a Turkish bath spend the night there sweat it Oh, no. I'd get pneumonia and if I got pneumonia, I'd be in bed for a month and if I were in bed for a month
BUD: Oh, no. I'd get pneumonia and if I got pneumonia, I'd be in bed for a month and if I were in bed for a month
VANDERHOF: Okay, you made your point. We'll just have to do it next Wednesday that's the only night of the week I can get away.
BUD: Wednesday Wednesday I got somebody penciled in let me see what I can do I'll get back to you.
BUD: ( into phone ) Mr. Eichelberger? Is this Mortgage and Loan? I'd like to speak to Mr. Eichelberger. Yes, it is urgent.
ASSOCIATE: ( holding out phone to Eichelberger ) For you, Mel.
EIGHELBERGER: Eichelberger here oh, yes, What's your problem? Wednesday is out? oh that throws a little monkey wrench into my agenda Thursday? No, I'm all tied up on Thursday let's schedule that meeting for Friday.
BUD: ( checks calendar ) Let me see what I can do. I'll get back to you.
KIRKEBY: Premium-wise and billing-wise, we are eighteen percent ahead of last year, October-wise.
KIRKEBY: Hello? Yeah, Baxter. What's up?
BUD: Instead of Friday could you possibly switch to Thursday? You'd be doing me a great favor
KIRKEBY: Well it's all right with me, Bud. Let me check. I'll get back to you.
SYLVIA: Consolidated Life I'll connect you Consolidated Life
SWITCHBOARD GIRL: Sylvia it's for you.
SYLVIA: Yes? Oh, hello sure I got home all right you owe me forty-five Okay, okay. Look, Sylvia instead of Friday - could we make it Thursday night?
KIRKEBY: Okay, okay. Look, Sylvia instead of Friday - could we make it Thursday night?
SYLVIA: Thursday? That's The Untouchables with Bob Stack.
KIRKEBY: Bob WHO? all right, so we'll watch it at the apartment. Big deal. Baxter? It's okay for Thursday.
BUD: Thank you, Mr. Kirkeby. Mr. Eichelberger? It's okay for Mr. Vanderhof? It's okay for
MOFFETT: ( into phone ) All right I'll tell him. ( hangs up, turns to Bud ) Hey, Baxter that was Personnel. Mr. Sheldrake's secretary.
BUD: She's been trying to reach you for the last twenty minutes. They want you up stairs.
MOFFETT: She's been trying to reach you for the last twenty minutes. They want you up stairs.
BUD: He jumps up, stuffs the nose-spray into one pocket, a handful of Kleenex into the other.
MOFFETT: What gives, Baxter? You getting promoted or getting fired?
BUD: ( cockily ) Care to make a small wager?
MOFFETT: I've been here twice as long as you Shall we say a dollar?
BUD: Shall we say a dollar?
MOFFETT: It's a bet.
FRAN: Going up?
BUD: Twenty-seven, please. And drive carefully. You're carrying precious cargo I mean, manpower-wise.
FRAN: You may not realize it, Miss Kubelik, but I'm in the top ten efficiency-wise and this may be the day promotion-wise.
BUD: You may not realize it, Miss Kubelik, but I'm in the top ten efficiency-wise and this may be the day promotion-wise.
FRAN: You're beginning to sound like Mr. Kirkeby already.
BUD: Why not? Now that they're kicking me upstairs
FRAN: Couldn't happen to a nicer guy. You know, you're the only one around here who ever takes his hat off in the elevator.
BUD: The characters you meet. Something happens to men in elevators. Must be the change of altitude the blood rushes to their head, or something boy, I could tell you I'd love to hear them. Maybe we could have lunch in the cafeteria sometime or some evening, after
FRAN: The characters you meet. Something happens to men in elevators. Must be the change of altitude the blood rushes to their head, or something boy, I could tell you I'd love to hear them. Maybe we could have lunch in the cafeteria sometime or some evening, after
BUD: I'd love to hear them. Maybe we could have lunch in the cafeteria sometime or some evening, after
FRAN: INT. TWENTY-SEVENTH FLOOR FOYER - DAY It is pretty plush up here soft carpeting and tall mahogany doors leading to the executive offices. The elevator door is open, and Bud steps out.
FRAN: I hope everything goes all right.
BUD: I hope so. Wouldn't you know they'd call me on a day like this with my cold and How do I look?
FRAN: ( stepping out of elevator )
BUD: Thank you. That's the first thing I ever noticed about you when you were still on the local elevator you always wore a flower
FRAN: Good luck. And wipe your nose.
BUD: C. C. Baxter Ordinary Premium Accounting Mr. Sheldrake called I called you that is, I tried to call you for twenty minutes.
MISS OLSEN: I called you that is, I tried to call you for twenty minutes.
BUD: I'm sorry, I
MISS OLSEN: Go on in.
SHELDRAKE: Yes, sir.
BUD: Yes, sir.
SHELDRAKE: ( studying him ) I was sort of wondering what you looked like. Sit down.
BUD: Yes, Mr. Sheldrake.
SHELDRAKE: Been hearing some very nice things about you here's a report from Mr. Dobisch loyal, cooperative, Mr. Dobisch said that?
BUD: Mr. Dobisch said that?
SHELDRAKE: And Mr. Kirkeby tells me that several nights a week you work late at the office without overtime.
BUD: ( modestly ) Well, you know how it is things pile up.
SHELDRAKE: Mr. Vanderhof, in Public Relations, and Mr. Eichelberger, in Mortgage and Loan they'd both like to have you transferred to their That's very flattering.
BUD: That's very flattering.
SHELDRAKE: Tell me, Baxter just what is it that makes you so popular?
BUD: I don't know.
SHELDRAKE: Bud does so. For a moment, he is a picture of intense concentration. Then
BUD: Would you mind repeating the Look, Baxter, I'm not stupid. I know everything that goes on in this building in every department on every floor every day of the year.
SHELDRAKE: Look, Baxter, I'm not stupid. I know everything that goes on in this building in every department on every floor every day of the year.
BUD: ( in a very small voice ) You do?
SHELDRAKE: ( rises, starts pacing ) In 1957, we had an employee here, name of Fowler. He was very popular, too. Turned out he was running a bookie joint right in the Actuarial Department tying up the switchboard, figuring the odds on our I.B.M. machines so the day before the Kentucky Derby, I called in the Vice Squad and we raided the thirteenth floor.
BUD: ( worried ) The Vice Squad?
SHELDRAKE: That's right, Baxter.
BUD: What what's that got to do with me? I'm not running any bookie joint.
SHELDRAKE: What kind of joint are you running?
BUD: There's a certain key floating around the office from Kirkeby to Vanderhof to Eichelberger to Dobisch it's the key to a certain apartment and you know who that apartment belongs to?
SHELDRAKE: There's a certain key floating around the office from Kirkeby to Vanderhof to Eichelberger to Dobisch it's the key to a certain apartment and you know who that apartment belongs to?
BUD: Loyal, cooperative, resourceful C. C. Baxter.
SHELDRAKE: Loyal, cooperative, resourceful C. C. Baxter.
BUD: Are you going to deny it?
SHELDRAKE: Are you going to deny it?
BUD: No, sir. I'm not going to deny it. But if you'd just let me explain
SHELDRAKE: You better.
BUD: ( a deep breath ) Well, about six months ago I was going to night school, taking this course in Advanced Accounting and one of the guys in our department he lives in Jersey he was going to a banquet at the Biltmore his wife was meeting him in town, and he needed someplace to change into a tuxedo so I gave him the key and word must have gotten around because the next thing I knew, all sorts of guys were suddenly going to banquets and when you give the key to one guy, you can't say no to another and the whole thing got out of hand pardon me.
SHELDRAKE: Baxter, an insurance company is founded on public trust. Any employee who conducts himself in a manner unbecoming How many charter members are there in this little club of yours?
BUD: Just those four out of a total of 31,259 so actually, we can be very proud of our personnel That's not the point. Four rotten apples in a barrel no matter how large the barrel you realize that if this ever leaked out
SHELDRAKE: That's not the point. Four rotten apples in a barrel no matter how large the barrel you realize that if this ever leaked out
BUD: Oh, it won't. Believe me. And it's not going to happen again. From now on, nobody is going to use my
SHELDRAKE: Where is your apartment?
BUD: West 67th Street. You have no idea what I've been going through with the neighbors and the landlady and the liquor and the key
SHELDRAKE: How do you work it with the key?
BUD: Well, usually I slip it to them in the office and they leave it under the mat but never again I can promise you that
SHELDRAKE: Yes, Miss Olsen.
MISS OLSEN: Mrs. Sheldrake returning your call on two
SHELDRAKE: Yes, dear I called you earlier where were you? Oh, you took Tommy to the dentist
SHELDRAKE: ( turning to him ) Where are you going, Baxter?
BUD: Well, I don't want to intrude and I thought since it's all straightened out anyway
SHELDRAKE: I'm not through with you yet.
BUD: Yes, sir.
SHELDRAKE: ( into phone ) The reason I called is I won't be home for dinner tonight. The branch manager from Kansas City is in town I'm taking him to the theatre Music Man, what else? No, don't wait up for me 'bye, ( hangs up, turns to Bud ) Tell me something, Baxter have you seen Music Man?
BUD: Not yet. But I hear it's one swell How would you like to go tonight?
SHELDRAKE: How would you like to go tonight?
BUD: You mean you and me? I thought you were taking the branch manager from Kansas City
SHELDRAKE: I made other plans. You can have both tickets.
BUD: Well, that's very kind of you only I'm not feeling well you see, I have this cold and I thought I'd go straight home.
SHELDRAKE: Baxter, you're not reading me. I told you I have plans.
BUD: So do I I'm going to take four aspirins and get into bed so you better give the tickets to somebody I'm not just giving those tickets, Baxter I want to swap them.
SHELDRAKE: I'm not just giving those tickets, Baxter I want to swap them.
BUD: Swap them? For what?
SHELDRAKE: It also says here that you are alert, astute, and quite
BUD: ( the dawn is breaking )
BUD: That's good thinking, Baxter. Next month there's going to be a shift in personnel around here and as far as I'm concerned, you're executive material.
SHELDRAKE: That's good thinking, Baxter. Next month there's going to be a shift in personnel around here and as far as I'm concerned, you're executive material.
BUD: I am?
SHELDRAKE: Now put down the key and put down the address.
BUD: It's on the second floor - my name is not on the door it just says
2A: Suddenly he realizes that he has been trying to write the address with the thermometer.
BUD: Oh terribly sorry. It's that Relax, Baxter.
SHELDRAKE: Relax, Baxter.
BUD: Thank you, sir.
BUD: You'll be careful with the record player, won't you? And about the liquor I ordered some this morning but I'm not sure when they'll deliver it Now remember, Baxter this is going to be our little secret.
SHELDRAKE: Now remember, Baxter this is going to be our little secret.
BUD: Yes, of course.
SHELDRAKE: You know how people talk.
BUD: Oh, you don't have to worry
SHELDRAKE: Not that I have anything to hide.
BUD: Oh, no sir. Certainly not. Anyway, it's none of my business four apples, five apples what's the difference percentage-wise?
SHELDRAKE: ( holding out the tickets ) Here you are, Baxter. Have a nice You too, sir.
BUD: You too, sir.
SYLVIA: So I figure, a man in his position, he's going to take me to 21 and El Morocco instead, he takes me to Hamburg Heaven and some schnook's
FRAN: ( passing Bud ) Good night.
BUD: ( casually ) Good night.
BUD: Oh Miss Kubelik. I've been waiting for you.
FRAN: You have?
BUD: I almost didn't recognize you this is the first time I've ever seen you in civilian clothes.
FRAN: How'd you make out on the twenty- seventh floor?
BUD: Great. Look have you seen The Music Man?
FRAN: Would you like to?
BUD: Would you like to?
FRAN: I thought maybe we could have a bite to eat first and then
BUD: I thought maybe we could have a bite to eat first and then
FRAN: You mean tonight?
BUD: I'm sorry, but I can't tonight. I'm meeting somebody.
FRAN: I'm sorry, but I can't tonight. I'm meeting somebody.
BUD: ( a beat ) You mean like a girl-friend?
FRAN: No. Like a man.
BUD: I wasn't trying to be personal it's just that the fellows in the office were whether you wondering about you ever
FRAN: Just tell 'em now and then.
BUD: This date is it just a date or is it something serious?
FRAN: It used to be serious at least I was but he wasn't so the whole thing is more or less kaputt.
BUD: Well, in that case, couldn't you ?
FRAN: I'm afraid not. I promised to have a drink with him he's been calling me all week
BUD: Oh, I understand.
BUD: ( putting his hat on ) Well, it was just an idea I hate to see a ticket go to waste
FRAN: ( stops ) What time does the show go on?
BUD: ( looks at her watch ) Well I could meet you at the theatre if that's all right.
FRAN: ( looks at her watch ) Well I could meet you at the theatre if that's all right.
BUD: All right? That's wonderful! It's the Majestic 44th Street.
FRAN: Meet you in the lobby. Okay? You know, I felt so lousy this morning a hundred and one fever then my promotion came up now you and I eleventh row center and you said I should have stayed in bed.
BUD: You know, I felt so lousy this morning a hundred and one fever then my promotion came up now you and I eleventh row center and you said I should have stayed in bed.
FRAN: How is your cold?
BUD: ( high as a kite ) What cold? And after the show, we could go out on the town ( does a little cha cha step ) I've been taking from Arthur Murray.
FRAN: So I see.
BUD: They got a great little band at El Chico, in the Village it's practically around the corner from where you live.
FRAN: Sounds good. How do you know where I live?
BUD: Oh, I even know who you live with your sister and brother-in- law I know when you were born and where I know all sorts of things about you.
FRAN: How come?
BUD: A couple of months ago I looked up your card in the group insurance I know your height, your weight and your Social Security number you had mumps, you had measles, and you had your appendix out.
FRAN: I know your height, your weight and your Social Security number you had mumps, you had measles, and you had your appendix out.
BUD: I know your height, your weight and your Social Security number you had mumps, you had measles, and you had your appendix out.
FRAN: Well, don't tell the fellows in the office about the appendix. They may get the wrong idea how you found
BUD: ( calling after her )
FRAN: ( a wistful smile ) Good evening, Mr. Sheldrake.
SHELDRAKE: Please, Fran not so loud.
FRAN: Still afraid somebody may see us Let me take that.
SHELDRAKE: ( reaching for her coat ) Let me take that.
FRAN: No, Jeff. I can't stay very long. Can I have a frozen daiquiri?
SHELDRAKE: It's on the way. I see you went ahead and cut your That's right.
FRAN: That's right.
SHELDRAKE: You know I liked it better long.
FRAN: Yes, I know. You want a lock to carry in your wallet?
WAITER: ( showing all his teeth ) Evening, lady. Nice see you again.
FRAN: Thank you.
SHELDRAKE: How long has it been a month?
FRAN: Six weeks. But who's counting?
SHELDRAKE: I missed you, Fran.
FRAN: Like old times. Same booth, same It's been hell.
SHELDRAKE: It's been hell.
FRAN: ( dipping shrimp ) same sauce sweet and sour.
SHELDRAKE: You don't know what it's like standing next to you in that elevator, day after day Good morning, Miss Kubelik Good night, Mr. Sheldrake I'm still crazy about you, Fran.
FRAN: ( avoiding his eyes ) Let's not start on that again, Jeff please. I'm just beginning to get over it.
SHELDRAKE: I don't believe you.
FRAN: Look, Jeff we had two wonderful months this summer and that was it. Happens all the time the wife and kids go away to the country, and the boss has a fling with the secretary or the manicurist or the elevator girl. Comes September, the picnic is over goodbye. The kids go back to school, the boss goes back to the wife, and the girl They don't make these shrimp like they used to.
SHELDRAKE: I never said goodbye, Fran.
FRAN: ( not listening ) For a while there, you try kidding yourself that you're going with an unmarried man. Then one day he keeps looking at his watch, and asks you if there's any lipstick showing, then rushes off to catch the seven-fourteen to White Plains. So you fix yourself a cup of instant coffee and you sit there by yourself and you think and it all begins to look so ugly
SHELDRAKE: How do you think I felt riding home on that seven-fourteen train?
FRAN: Why do you keep calling me, Jeff? What do you want from me?
SHELDRAKE: ( taking her hand ) I want you back, Fran.
FRAN: ( withdrawing her hand ) Sorry, Mr. Sheldrake I'm full up. You'll have to take the next You're not giving me a chance, Fran. I asked you to meet me because I have something to tell you.
SHELDRAKE: You're not giving me a chance, Fran. I asked you to meet me because I have something to tell you.
FRAN: Go ahead tell me.
SHELDRAKE: ( a glance around ) Not here, Fran. Can't we go some place else?
FRAN: No. I have a date at eight-thirty.
SHELDRAKE: Not very but I'm going to be there anyway.
FRAN: Not very but I'm going to be there anyway.
WAITER: You ready order dinner now?
FRAN: No. No dinner.
SHELDRAKE: Bring us two more drinks.
SHELDRAKE: Fran remember that last weekend we had?
FRAN: ( wryly ) Do I. That leaky little boat you rented and me in a black negligee and a life preserver
SHELDRAKE: Remember what we talked about?
FRAN: We talked about a lot of things.
SHELDRAKE: I mean about my getting a divorce.
FRAN: We didn't talk about it you did.
SHELDRAKE: You didn't really believe me, did They got it an a long playing record now - Music to String Her Along By. My wife doesn't understand me We haven't gotten along for years You're the best thing that ever happened to me
FRAN: ( shrugging ) They got it an a long playing record now - Music to String Her Along By. My wife doesn't understand me We haven't gotten along for years You're the best thing that ever happened to me
SHELDRAKE: That's enough, Fran.
FRAN: ( going right on ) Just trust me, baby we'll work it out somehow
SHELDRAKE: You're not being funny.
FRAN: I wasn't trying.
SHELDRAKE: If you'll just listen to me for a Okay. I'm sorry.
FRAN: Okay. I'm sorry.
SHELDRAKE: I saw my lawyer this morning I wanted his advice about the best way to handle it
FRAN: Handle what?
SHELDRAKE: What do you think?
FRAN: ( looking at him for a long moment - then ) Let's get something straight, Jeff I never asked you to leave your wife.
SHELDRAKE: Of course not. You had nothing to do with it.
FRAN: ( her eyes misting up again ) Are you sure that's what you want?
SHELDRAKE: I'm sure. If you'll just tell me that you still love me
FRAN: ( softly ) You know I do.
SHELDRAKE: He takes her hand, kisses it. The bar has been filling up, and now two couples are seating themselves in a nearby booth. One of the women is Miss Olsen.
FRAN: ( pulling her hand away gently ) Jeff darling
SHELDRAKE: It is crowding up. Let's get out of
SHELDRAKE: ( to a passing cab )
FRAN: I have that date remember?
SHELDRAKE: I love you remember?
FRAN: Where are we going, Jeff? Not back to that leaky boat
SHELDRAKE: I promise. 51 West Sixty-Seventh.
SHELDRAKE: ( to cab driver ) 51 West Sixty-Seventh.
BUD: ( to painter ) Would you mind ? ( the painter turns around ) C. C. Baxter that's me.
KIRKEBY'S VOICE: Hi, Buddy-boy.
DOBISCH'S VOICE: Congratulations, and all that jazz.
BUD: Hi, fellas.
EICHELBERGER: Well, you made it, kid just like we promised.
VANDERHOF: Quite an office name on the door rug on the floor the whole schmear.
BUD: Teamwork that's what counts in an organization like this. All for one and one for all know what I I have a vague idea.
DOBISCH: Teamwork that's what counts in an organization like this. All for one and one for all know what I I have a vague idea.
BUD: I have a vague idea.
KIRKEBY: Baxter, we're a little disappointed in you gratitude-wise.
BUD: Oh, I'm very grateful.
EIGHELBERGER: Then why are you locking us out, all of a sudden?
BUD: It's been sort of rough these last few weeks what with my cold and like that
DOBISCH: We went to bat for you and now you won't play ball with us.
BUD: Well, after all, it's my apartment it's private property it's not a public All right, so you got yourself a girl that's okay with us but not every night of the week.
VANDERHOF: All right, so you got yourself a girl that's okay with us but not every night of the week.
KIRKEBY: How selfish can you get? Last week I had to borrow my nephew's car and take Sylvia to a drive-in in Jersey. I'm too old for that sort of thing I mean, in a I sympathize with your problem and believe me, I'm very sorry
BUD: I sympathize with your problem and believe me, I'm very sorry
DOBISCH: You'll be a lot sorrier before we're through with you.
BUD: You threatening me?
DOBISCH: Listen, Baxter, we made you and we can break you.
BUD: Good morning, Mr. Sheldrake.
SHELDRAKE: Morning, gentlemen. Everything satisfactory? You like your office?
BUD: Oh, yes, sir. Very much. And I want to thank you
SHELDRAKE: Don't thank me thank your friends here they're the ones who recommended you.
DOBISCH: We just dropped in to wish him the
KIRKEBY: ( as they move toward the door ) So long, Baxter. We know you won't let us down.
BUD: So long, fellas. Drop in any time. The door is always open to my
SHELDRAKE: I like the way you handled that. Well, how does it feel to be an Fine. And I want you to know I'll work very hard to justify your confidence in me
BUD: Fine. And I want you to know I'll work very hard to justify your confidence in me
SHELDRAKE: Sure you will. Say, Baxter, about the apartment - now that you got a raise, don't you think we can afford a second key?
BUD: Well I guess so.
SHELDRAKE: You know my secretary Miss Oh, yes. Very attractive. Is she the lucky one?
BUD: Oh, yes. Very attractive. Is she the lucky one?
SHELDRAKE: No, you don't understand. She's a busybody always poking her nose into things and with that key passing back and forth why take Yes, sir. You can't be too careful.
BUD: Yes, sir. You can't be too careful.
BUD: I have something here I think it belongs to you.
SHELDRAKE: To me?
BUD: I mean the young lady whoever she may be it was on the couch when I got home last night.
SHELDRAKE: Oh, yes. Thanks.
BUD: The mirror is broken. It was broken when I found it.
SHELDRAKE: So it was. She threw it at me.
BUD: You know how it is sooner or later they all give you a bad time.
SHELDRAKE: You know how it is sooner or later they all give you a bad time.
BUD: ( man-of-the-world ) I know how it is.
SHELDRAKE: You see a girl a couple of times a week just for laughs and right away she thinks you're going to divorce your wife. I ask you is that fair?
BUD: No, sir. That's very unfair especially to your wife.
SHELDRAKE: ( shifting gears ) You know, Baxter, I envy you. Bachelor all the dames you want no headaches, no Yes, sir. That's the life, all right.
BUD: Yes, sir. That's the life, all right.
SHELDRAKE: Put me down for Thursday again.
BUD: Roger. And I'll get that other key.
OPERATORS: Consolidated Life Merry Christmas I'll connect you Consolidated Life Merry Christmas I'm ringing
SYLVIA: ( into mouthpiece ) Yeah? YEAH? Where? You
SYLVIA: Somebody watch my line there's a swinging party up on the nineteenth
SYLVIA: ( to a colleague ) so I said to him: Never again! either get yourself a bigger car or a smaller girl
BUD: Miss Kubelik.
BUD: ( holding out one of the drinks ) Marry Christmas.
FRAN: Thank you. I thought you were avoiding me.
BUD: What gave you that idea?
FRAN: In the last six weeks you've only been in my elevator once and then you didn't take your hat off.
BUD: Well, as a matter of fact, I was rather hurt when you stood me up that night
FRAN: I don't blame you. It was I forgive you.
BUD: I forgive you.
FRAN: You shouldn't.
BUD: You couldn't help yourself. I mean, when you're having a drink with one man, you can't just suddenly walk out on him because you have another date with another man. You did the only decent thing.
FRAN: Don't be too sure. Just because I wear a uniform that doesn't make me a Girl Scout.
BUD: Miss Kubelik, one doesn't get to be a second administrative assistant around here unless he's a pretty good judge of character and as far as I'm concerned, you're tops. I mean, decency-wise and
FRAN: They down their drinks. Bud takes the empty cup from her.
BUD: One more?
FRAN: ( indicating elevator ) I shouldn't drink when I'm driving.
BUD: You're so right.
BUD: By the power vested in me, I herewith declare this elevator out of order. Shall we join the natives?
FRAN: Why not? They seem friendly enough.
BUD: Don't you believe it. Later on there will be human sacrifices white collar workers tossed into the computing machines, and punched full of those little square holes.
FRAN: How many of those drinks did you I thought so.
BUD: ( holding up four fingers ) I thought so.
FRAN: I thought so.
BUD: You wait here. I think I hear the sound of running water.
MISS OLSEN: Hi. How's the branch manager from Kansas City?
FRAN: I beg your pardon?
MISS OLSEN: I'm Miss Olsen Mr. Sheldrake's Yes, I know.
FRAN: Yes, I know.
MISS OLSEN: So you don't have to play innocent with me. He used to tell his wife that I was the branch manager from Seattle four years ago when we were having a little ring-a-ding- I don't know what you're talking And before me there was Miss Rossi in Auditing and after me there was Miss Koch in Disability and just before you there was Miss What's-Her-Name, on the twenty- fifth floor
FRAN: I don't know what you're talking And before me there was Miss Rossi in Auditing and after me there was Miss Koch in Disability and just before you there was Miss What's-Her-Name, on the twenty- fifth floor
MISS OLSEN: And before me there was Miss Rossi in Auditing and after me there was Miss Koch in Disability and just before you there was Miss What's-Her-Name, on the twenty- fifth floor
FRAN: ( wanting to get away ) Will you excuse me?
MISS OLSEN: ( holding her by the arm ) What for? You haven't done anything it's him what a salesman always the last booth in the Chinese restaurant and the same pitch about divorcing his wife and in the end you wind up with egg foo yong on your face.
BUD: Miss Kubelik.
FRAN: Well thank you.
MISS OLSEN: Always happy to do something for our girls in uniform.
BUD: You all right? What's the matter?
FRAN: ( takes the drink ) There are just too many people here.
BUD: Why don't we step into any office? There's something I want your advice about, anyway. I have my own office now, naturally. And you may be interested to know I'm the second youngest executive in the company the only one younger is a grandson of the chairman of the board.
BUD: Miss Kubelik, I would like your honest opinion. I've had this in my desk for a week cost me fifteen dollars but I just couldn't get up enough nerve to wear it
BUD: It's what they call the junior executive model. What do you think?
BUD: Guess I made a boo-boo, huh?
FRAN: ( paying attention again ) No I like it.
BUD: Really? You mean you wouldn't be ashamed to be seen with somebody in a hat like this?
FRAN: Of course not.
BUD: Maybe if I wore it a little more to the side is that better?
FRAN: Much better.
BUD: Well, as long as you wouldn't be ashamed to be seen with me how about the three of us going out this evening you and me and the bowler stroll down Fifth Avenue sort of break it in
FRAN: This is a bad day for me.
BUD: I understand. Christmas family and all that
FRAN: I'd better get back to my elevator. I don't want to be fired.
BUD: Oh, you don't have to worry about that. I have quite a bit of influence in Personnel. You know Mr. He and I are like this. Sent me a Christmas card. See?
FRAN: ( guardedly ) He and I are like this. ( crosses his fingers ) Sent me a Christmas card. See?
BUD: He and I are like this. Sent me a Christmas card. See?
SEASON'S GREETINGS: from the SHELDRAKES Emily, Jeff, Tommy, Jeff Jr.,
FRAN: ( studying the card ruefully ) Makes a cute picture.
BUD: I thought maybe I could put in a word for you with Mr. Sheldrake get you a little promotion how would you like to be an elevator I'm afraid there are too many other girls around here with seniority over me.
FRAN: I'm afraid there are too many other girls around here with seniority over me.
BUD: No problem. Why don't we discuss it sometime over the holidays I could call you and pick you up and we'll have the big unveiling you sure this is the right way to wear it?
FRAN: I think so.
BUD: You don't think it's tilted a little too much
FRAN: ( examining himself in the mirror ) After all, this is a conservative firm I don't want people to think I'm an entertainer
BUD: ( examining himself in the mirror ) After all, this is a conservative firm I don't want people to think I'm an entertainer
FRAN: What is it?
BUD: ( with difficulty ) The mirror it's broken.
FRAN: I know. I like it this way makes me look the way I feel.
FRAN: Your phone.
BUD: ( picks up phone from desk ) ( throws a quick look at Fran ) Just a minute. ( covers mouthpiece; to Fran ) If you don't mind this is sort of personal
FRAN: All right. Have a nice Christmas. Yes, Mr. Sheldrake no, I didn't forget the tree is up and the Tom and Jerry mix is in the refrigerator yes, sir same to
BUD: ( every word hurts ) Yes, Mr. Sheldrake no, I didn't forget the tree is up and the Tom and Jerry mix is in the refrigerator yes, sir same to
KIRKEBY: Where you going, Buddy-boy? The party's just starting. Listen, kid give me a break, will you how about tomorrow afternoon? I can't take her to that drive-in again the car doesn't even have a heater four o'clock
SANTA CLAUS: ( to bartender ) Hey, Charlie give me a shot of bourbon and step on it my sleigh is double parked.
MARGIE: You buy me a drink, I'll buy you some music. Rum Collins.
BUD: Rum Collins. And another one of these little
MARGIE: ( out of nowhere ) You like Castro? ( a blank look from Bud ) I mean how do you feel about What is Castro?
BUD: What is Castro?
MARGIE: You know, that big-shot down in Cuba with the crazy beard.
BUD: What about him?
MARGIE: Because as far as I'm concerned, he's a no good fink. Two weeks ago I wrote him a letter never even answered me.
BUD: That so.
MARGIE: All I wanted him to do was let Mickey out for Christmas.
BUD: Who is Mickey?
MARGIE: My husband. He's in Havana in Oh. Mixed up in that revolution?
BUD: Oh. Mixed up in that revolution?
MARGIE: Mickey? He wouldn't do nothing like that. He's a jockey. They caught him doping a horse.
BUD: Well, you can't win 'em all.
MARGIE: ( to herself ) 'Twas the night before Christmas And all through the house Not a creature was stirring No action ( drinks; to Bud ) You married?
BUD: A night like this, it sort of spooks you to walk into an empty I said I had no family I didn't say I had an empty apartment.
MARGIE: A night like this, it sort of spooks you to walk into an empty I said I had no family I didn't say I had an empty apartment.
BUD: A night like this, it sort of spooks you to walk into an empty I said I had no family I didn't say I had an empty apartment.
MARGIE: A night like this, it sort of spooks you to walk into an empty I said I had no family I didn't say I had an empty apartment.
BUD: I said I had no family I didn't say I had an empty apartment.
SHELDRAKE: ( stops and faces Fran ) Come on, Fran don't be like that. You just going to sit there and keep bawling? ( no answer ) You won't talk to me, you won't tell me what's wrong ( a new approach ) Look, I know you think I'm stalling you. But when you've been married to a woman for twelve years, you don't just sit down at the breakfast table and say "Pass the sugar and I want a divorce." It's not that easy. ( he resumes pacing; Fran continues crying ) Anyway, this is the wrong time. The kids are home from school my in- laws are visiting for the holidays I can't bring it up now. ( stops in front of her ) This isn't like you, Fran you were always such a good sport such fun to be with
FRAN: ( through tears ) Yeah that's me. The Happy Idiot a million laughs.
SHELDRAKE: Well, that's more like it. At least you're speaking to me.
FRAN: Funny thing happened to me at the office party today I ran into your secretary Miss Olsen. You know ring-a-ding-ding? I laughed so much I like to died.
SHELDRAKE: Is that what's been bothering you Miss Olsen? That's ancient I was never very good at history. Let me see there was Miss Olsen, and then there was Miss Rossi no, she came before it was Miss Koch who came after Miss Olsen
FRAN: I was never very good at history. Let me see there was Miss Olsen, and then there was Miss Rossi no, she came before it was Miss Koch who came after Miss Olsen
SHELDRAKE: Now, Fran
FRAN: And just think right now there's some lucky girl in the building who's going to come after me
SHELDRAKE: Okay, okay, Fran. I deserve that. But just ask yourself why does a man run around with a lot of girls? Because he's unhappy at home because he's lonely, that's why all that was before you, Fran I've stopped running.
FRAN: How could I be so stupid? You'd think I would have learned by now when you're in love with a married man, you shouldn't wear It's Christmas Eve, Fran let's not fight.
SHELDRAKE: It's Christmas Eve, Fran let's not fight.
FRAN: Merry Christmas.
SHELDRAKE: What is it? Oh. Our friend from the Chinese restaurant. Thanks, Fran. We better keep it here.
SHELDRAKE: Oh. Our friend from the Chinese restaurant. Thanks, Fran. We better keep it here.
FRAN: Yeah, we better.
SHELDRAKE: I have a present for you. I didn't quite know what to get you anyway it's a little awkward for me, shopping so here's a hundred dollars go out and buy yourself something.
SHELDRAKE: They have some nice alligator bags at Bergdorf's Fran, it's a quarter to seven and I mustn't miss the train if we hadn't wasted all that time I have to get home and trim the
SHELDRAKE: Fran, it's a quarter to seven and I mustn't miss the train if we hadn't wasted all that time I have to get home and trim the
FRAN: ( shrugs the coat back on ) I just thought as long as it was paid for
SHELDRAKE: ( an angry step toward her ) Don't ever talk like that, Fran! Don't make yourself out to be cheap.
FRAN: A hundred dollars? I wouldn't call that cheap. And you must be paying somebody something for the use of the apartment
SHELDRAKE: ( grabbing her arms ) Stop that, Fran.
FRAN: ( quietly ) You'll miss your train, Jeff. You run along I want to fix my ( heading for the door ) Don't forget to kill the lights. See you Monday.
SHELDRAKE: You run along I want to fix my Don't forget to kill the lights. See you Monday.
FRAN: You run along I want to fix my Don't forget to kill the lights. See you Monday.
SHELDRAKE: ( heading for the door ) Don't forget to kill the lights. See you Monday.
FRAN: Sure. Monday and Thursday and Monday again and Thursday It won't always be like this. I love you, Fran.
SHELDRAKE: ( that stops him in the half-open door ) It won't always be like this. ( coming back ) I love you, Fran.
FRAN: ( turning her head ) Careful lipstick.
BARTENDER: ( to Santa Claus ) Drink up, Pop. It's closing time.
SANTA CLAUS: But it's early, Charlie.
BARTENDER: Don't you know what night this is?
SANTA CLAUS: I know, Charlie. I know. I work for the outfit.
BARTENDER: Hey, knock it off, will you? Go home.
BARTENDER: O-U-T out!
MARGIE: Where do we go my place or yours?
BUD: ( peering at his watch ) Might as well go to mine everybody else does.
MARGIE: Poor Mickey when I think of him all by himself in that jail in want to see his picture?
BUD: ( from steps ) Not particularly.
MARGIE: He's so cute five-foot-two ninety-nine pounds.like a little
MARGIE: Can I ask you a personal question?
BUD: You got a girl-friend?
MARGIE: You got a girl-friend?
BUD: She may be a girl but she's no friend of mine.
MARGIE: Still stuck on her, huh.
BUD: Stuck on her! Obviously, you don't know me very well.
MARGIE: I don't know you at all.
BUD: Permit me C.C. Baxter junior executive, Arthur Murray graduate, I'm Mrs. MacDougall Margie to you.
MARGIE: I'm Mrs. MacDougall Margie to you.
BUD: This way, Mrs. MacDougall.
MARGIE: ( looking around ) Say, this is Snugsville.
BUD: ( helping her out of her coat ) Mrs. MacDougall, I think it is only fair to warn you that you are now alone with a notorious sexpot.
MARGIE: ( a gleam ) No kidding.
BUD: Ask anybody around here. As a matter of fact, when it's time for me to go and I may go just like I have promised my body to the Columbia Medical Center.
MARGIE: ( shuddering deliciously ) Gee. Sort of gives you goose-bumps just to think about it.
BUD: Well, they haven't got me yet, baby. Dig up some ice from the kitchen and let's not waste any time I'm with you, lover.
MARGIE: I'm with you, lover.
BUD: All right, Miss Kubelik get up. It's past checking-out time, and the hotel management would appreciate it if you would get the hell out of here. Look, Miss Kubelik, I used to like you I used to like you a lot but it's all over between us so beat it O-U-T out! Come on wake up!
BUD: ( a hoarse whisper ) Oh, my God.
BUD: Miss Kubelik! Miss Kubelik!
MARGIE: I broke a nail trying to get the ice-tray out. You ought to buy yourself a new refrigerator.
MARGIE: ( calling after him ) I didn't mean right now.
BUD: Dr. Dreyfuss! Hey, Doc!
BUD: ( words tumbling over each other ) There's a girl in my place she took some sleeping pills you better come quick I can't wake her up.
DR. DREYFUSS: Let me get my bag.
BUD: Hurry up, Doc.
MARGIE: Hey over here, lover.
MARGIE: What's all this running around? You're going to wear yourself out. Not so rough, honey.
MARGIE: Not so rough, honey.
BUD: ( taking the glass out of her hand ) Good night.
MARGIE: Good night?
BUD: ( thrusting the fur coat at her ) The party's over.
MARGIE: What's the matter? Did I do something wrong?
BUD: ( easing her toward door ) It's an emergency see you some other time.
BUD: Not this one in there, Doc.
MARGIE: Say, what's going on here, anyway?
BUD: ( propelling her toward the door ) Just clear out, will you?
MARGIE: ( pointing back ) My shoes.
MARGIE: ( bitterly ) Some lover you are. Some sexpot!
BUD: Here find yourself a phone booth and call your husband in Havana.
MARGIE: You bet I will. And when I tell him how you treated me, he'll push your face in. You fink!
BUD: She going to be all right, Doc?
DR. DREYFUSS: How many pills were in that bottle?
BUD: It was half-full about a dozen or so. You going to have to take her to the hospital?
DR. DREYFUSS: Help me, will you?
DR. DREYFUSS: Into the bathroom. What are you going to do, Doc?
BUD: What are you going to do, Doc?
DR. DREYFUSS: Get that stuff out of her stomach if it isn't too late. You better put some coffee on and pray.
DR. DREYFUSS: Bring my bag.
DR. DREYFUSS: Roll up her right sleeve.
DR. DREYFUSS: Nice veins.
DR. DREYFUSS: Want to tell me what happened?
BUD: I don't know I mean I wasn't here you see we had some words earlier nothing serious, really what you might call a lovers' quarrel
DR. DREYFUSS: ( making off-scene injection ) So you went right out and picked yourself up another dame.
BUD: Something like that.
DR. DREYFUSS: You know, Baxter, you're a real cutie-pie yes, you are.
DR. DREYFUSS: If you'd come home half an hour later, you would have had quite a Christmas present.
DR. DREYFUSS: Get the coffee.
DR. DREYFUSS: Let's get some air in here. Open the windows.
DR. DREYFUSS: ( putting the empty mug down ) What's her name?
BUD: Miss Kubelik Fran.
DR. DREYFUSS: ( to Fran, slowly ) Fran, I'm a doctor. I'm here because you took too many sleeping pills. Do you understand what I'm ( Fran mutters something ) Fran, I'm Dr. Dreyfuss I'm here to help you. You took all those sleeping pills remember?
FRAN: ( mumbling groggily ) Sleeping pills.
DR. DREYFUSS: That's right, Fran. And I'm a doctor.
FRAN: DR. DREYFUSS
DR. DREYFUSS: Dr. Dreyfuss.
FRAN: DR. DREYFUSS ( to Bud )
DR. DREYFUSS: ( to Bud ) Get more coffee.
DR. DREYFUSS: ( to Fran ) Tell me again what's my name?
FRAN: Dr. Dreyfuss.
DR. DREYFUSS: And what happened to you?
FRAN: I took sleeping pills.
DR. DREYFUSS: Do you know where you are, Fran?
FRAN: ( looking around blankly ) Yes, you do. Now concentrate.
DR. DREYFUSS: Yes, you do. Now concentrate.
FRAN: I don't know.
DR. DREYFUSS: ( pointing to Bud ) Do you know who this is? ( Fran tries to focus ) Look at him.
FRAN: Mr. Baxter nineteenth floor.
BUD: Hello, Miss Kubelik.
DR. DREYFUSS: ( to Bud ) Mister Miss such politeness!
BUD: ( to Dr. Dreyfuss, discreetly ) Well we work in the same building and we try to keep it ( to Bud, puzzled ) What are you doing here?
FRAN: ( to Bud, puzzled ) What are you doing here?
BUD: ( to Fran ) Don't you remember? We were at the office party together
FRAN: Oh, yes office party Miss That's right. I told you we had a fight that's what it was about Miss Olsen you know that other girl you saw
BUD: That's right. I told you we had a fight that's what it was about Miss Olsen you know that other girl you saw
FRAN: ( still trying to figure out Bud's presence ) I don't understand
BUD: It's not important, Fran the main thing is that I got here in time and you're going to be all isn't she, Doc?
FRAN: ( closing her eyes ) I'm so tired
DR. DREYFUSS: Here drink this.
FRAN: ( pushing the mug away ) Please just let me sleep.
DR. DREYFUSS: You can't sleep. Come on, Fran open your eyes. Let's get her walking. We've got to keep her awake for the next couple of hours.
DR. DREYFUSS: ( urging Fran on ) Now walk, Fran. One, two, three, four one, two, three, four that's the idea left, right, left, right now we turn one, two, three, four
DR. DREYFUSS: Left, right, left, right walk, walk, walk one, two, three, four turn left, right, left, right now you got it
DR. DREYFUSS: She'll sleep on and off for the next twenty-four hours. Of course, she'll have a dandy hangover when she wakes up
BUD: Just as long as she's okay.
DR. DREYFUSS: ( massaging his calves ) These cases are harder on the doctor than on the patient. I ought to charge you by the mile.
DR. DREYFUSS: Any of that coffee left?
BUD: He goes into the kitchen. Dr. Dreyfuss takes a small notebook with a fountain pen clipped to it out of his bag, sinks down on the couch.
DR. DREYFUSS: How do you spell her last name?
BUD: ( from kitchen ) Kubelik with two k's.
DR. DREYFUSS: What's her address? Where does she live?
BUD: ( apprehensive ) Why do you want to know, Doc? You don't have to report this, do you?
DR. DREYFUSS: It's regulations.
BUD: ( setting the coffee down ) She didn't mean it, Doc it was an accident she had a little too much to drink and she didn't know what she was doing there was no suicide note or anything believe me, Doc, I'm not thinking about myself
DR. DREYFUSS: ( sipping the hot coffee ) Aren't you?
BUD: It's just that she's got a family and there's the people in the office look, Doc, can't you forget you're a doctor let's just say you're here as a neighbor
DR. DREYFUSS: ( a long look at Bud ) Well, as a doctor, I guess I can't prove it wasn't an accident. ( closes notebook ) But as your neighbor, I'd like to kick your keester clear around the ( indicating coffee ) Mind if I cool this off? Help yourself.
BUD: Help yourself.
DR. DREYFUSS: ( taking a big gulp of the spiked coffee ) I don't know what you did to that girl in there and don't tell me but it was bound to happen, the way you carry on. Live now, pay later. Diner's Club! ( another swig ) Why don't you grow up, Baxter? Be a mensch! You know what that means?
BUD: I'm not sure.
DR. DREYFUSS: A mansch a human being! So you got off easy this time so you were lucky
BUD: Yeah, wasn't I?
DR. DREYFUSS: ( finishing coffee ) But you're not out of the woods yet, Baxter because most of them try it again! ( picks up bag, starts toward door ) You know where I am if you need me.
MRS. LIEBERMAN: Mr. Baxter. Open up already!
BUD: Oh Mrs. Lieberman.
MRS. LIEBERMAN: So who did you think it was Kris Kringle? What was going on here last night?
BUD: Last night?
MRS. LIEBERMAN: All that marching tramp, tramp, tramp you were having army maneuvers maybe?
BUD: I'm sorry, Mrs. Lieberman and I'll never invite those people again.
MRS. LIEBERMAN: What you get from renting to bachelors. All night I didn't sleep ten minutes and I'm sure you woke up Dr. Dreyfuss.
BUD: Don't worry about Dr. Dreyfuss I happen to know he was out on a case.
MRS. LIEBERMAN: I'm warning you, Mr. Baxter this is a respectable house, not a Come on, Oscar.
BUD: ( his voice low ) Operator, I want White Plains, New York Mr. J. D. Sheldrake ( an added thought ) make it person to person.
SHELDRAKE: ( counting down ) 7-6-5-4-3-2-1 let her rip!
TOMMY: Hey, Dad why don't we put a fly in the nose cone and see if we can bring it back alive?
SHELDRAKE: It's a thought.
TOMMY: Maybe we should send up two flies and see if they'll propagate in See if they'll what?
SHELDRAKE: See if they'll what?
TOMMY: Propagate you know, multiply baby flies?
SHELDRAKE: Oh oh!
SHELDRAKE: ( getting up ) Person to person.
TOMMY: ( to Jeff Jr. ) Come on help me round up some
SHELDRAKE: Hello? yes what's on your mind, Baxter?
BUD: I hate to disturb you, but something came up it's rather important and I think it would be a good idea if you could see me at the apartment as soon as possible.
SHELDRAKE: You're not making sense, Baxter. What's this all about?
BUD: I didn't want to tell you over the phone but that certain party you know who I mean I found her here last night she had taken an overdose of sleeping pills.
SHELDRAKE: From the stairway beyond him comes:
SHELDRAKE: ( a nice recovery ) One of our employees had an accident I don't know why they bother me with these things on Christmas Day. ( into phone ) Yes, Baxter just how serious is Well, it was touch and go there for a while but she's sleeping it off now. I thought maybe you'd like to be here when she wakes up.
BUD: Well, it was touch and go there for a while but she's sleeping it off now. I thought maybe you'd like to be here when she wakes up.
BUD: I thought maybe you'd like to be here when she wakes up.
SHELDRAKE: That's impossible. You'll have to handle this situation yourself as a matter of fact, I'm counting on you
BUD: ( into phone ) Yes, sir I understand. ( taking Fran's letter out of his pocket ) She left a note you want me to open it and read it to you? ( a beat ) Well, it was just a suggestion no, you don't have to worry about that, Mr. Sheldrake I kept your name out of it so there'll be no trouble, police-wise or newspaper-
BUD: ( into phone ) you see, the doctor, he's a friend of mine we were very lucky in that respect actually, he thinks she's my girl no, he just jumped to the conclusion around here, I'm known as quite a ladies' man
BUD: ( into phone ) of course, we're not out of the woods yet sometimes they try it again yes sir, I'll do my best it looks like it'll be a couple of days before she's fully recovered, and I may have a little problem with the landlady
BUD: ( into phone ) all right, Mr. Sheldrake, I'll keep her in my apartment as long as I can any sort of message you want me to give her? well, I'll think of something goodbye, Mr.
FRAN: ( weakly ) I'm sorry.
FRAN: I'm sorry, Mr. Baxter.
BUD: Miss Kubelik you shouldn't be out of bed.
FRAN: I didn't know I had no idea this was your apartment
BUD: ( putting his arm around her ) Let me help you.
FRAN: I'm so ashamed. Why didn't you just let me die?
BUD: What kind of talk is that? So you got a little over- emotional but you're fine now.
FRAN: ( a groan ) My head it feels like a big wad of chewing gum. What time is it?
BUD: Two o'clock.
FRAN: ( struggling to her feet ) Where's my dress? I have to go home.
BUD: You're in no condition to go anywhere except back to bed.
FRAN: You don't want me here
BUD: Sure I do. It's always nice to have company for Christmas.
BUD: Miss Kubelik, I'm stronger than you I just want to go brush my teeth
FRAN: I just want to go brush my teeth
BUD: Oh of course. I think there's a new toothbrush somewhere.
BUD: Here put this on.
BUD: ( handing her the toothbrush ) Here. How about some breakfast?
FRAN: No I don't want anything.
BUD: I'll fix you some coffee.
BUD: Oh we're all out of coffee you had quite a lot of it last
BUD: Mrs. Dreyfuss, can I borrow some coffee and maybe an orange and a couple of eggs?
MRS. DREYFUSS: ( contemptuously ) Eggs he asks me for. Oranges. What you need is a good horse-whipping.
BUD: MRS. DREYFUSS
MRS. DREYFUSS: From me the doctor has no secrets. Poor girl how could you do a thing like that?
BUD: I didn't really do anything honest I mean, you take a girl out a couple of times a week just for laughs and right away she thinks you're serious Big shot! For you, I wouldn't lift a finger but for her, I'll fix a little something to eat.
MRS. DREYFUSS: Big shot! For you, I wouldn't lift a finger but for her, I'll fix a little something to eat.
BUD: Who are you calling, Miss Kubelik?
FRAN: My sister she'll want to know what happened to me.
BUD: ( alarmed ) Wait a minute let's talk this over first. ( hurries up to her, takes the receiver away ) Just what are you going to tell her?
FRAN: Well, I haven't figured it out, You better figure it out exactly. Suppose she asks you why you didn't come home last night?
BUD: You better figure it out exactly. Suppose she asks you why you didn't come home last night?
FRAN: I'll tell her I spent the night with a friend.
BUD: Someone from the office.
FRAN: Someone from the office.
BUD: And where are you now?
FRAN: In his apartment.
BUD: His apartment?
FRAN: I mean her apartment.
BUD: What's your friend's name?
FRAN: What's her first name?
BUD: What's her first name?
FRAN: ( she is impressed with her own cleverness )
BUD: When are you coming home?
FRAN: As soon as I can walk.
BUD: Something wrong with your legs?
FRAN: No it's my stomach.
BUD: Your stomach?
FRAN: They had to pump it out.
BUD: ( hanging up the phone ) Miss Kubelik, I don't think you ought to call anybody not till that chewing gum is out of your ( leads her into bedroom )
FRAN: But they'll be worried about me my brother-in-law may be calling the police
BUD: That's why we have to be careful we don't want to involve anybody after all, Mr. Sheldrake is a married man
FRAN: Thanks for reminding me.
BUD: ( contritely ) I didn't mean it that way I was just talking to him on the phone he's very concerned about you.
FRAN: He doesn't give a damn about me.
BUD: Oh, you're wrong. He told me
FRAN: He's a liar. But that's not the worst part of it the worst part is I still love him.
BUD: Must be Mrs. Dreyfuss remember the doctor from last night that's his wife.
MRS. DREYFUSS: So where is the victim? Max the Knife!
MRS. DREYFUSS: ( to Fran ) Nu, little lady, how are we feeling I don't know kind of dizzy.
FRAN: I don't know kind of dizzy.
MRS. DREYFUSS: Here. The best thing for dizzy is a little noodle soup with chicken white meat and a glass tea.
FRAN: Thank you. I'm really not hungry.
MRS. DREYFUSS: Go ahead! Eat! Enjoy!
MRS. DREYFUSS: You wouldn't have such a thing as a napkin, would you?
BUD: Well, I have some paper towels
MRS. DREYFUSS: Beatnik! Go to my kitchen third drawer, under the good silver, there is napkins.
BUD: Yes, Mrs. Dreyfuss.
MRS. DREYFUSS: So what are you waiting for a singing commercial?
FRAN: I can't eat.
MRS. DREYFUSS: You must eat and you must get healthy and you must forget him. Such a fine boy he seemed when he first moved in here clean and cut a regular Ivy Leaguer. Turns out he is King Farouk. Mit the drinking mit the cha cha mit the no napkins. A girl like you, for the rest of your life you want to cry in your noodle soup? Who needs it! You listen to me, you find yourself a nice, substantial man a widower maybe and settle down instead of nashing all those sleeping pills for what, for whom? for some Good Time Charlie? One napkin, coming up. I wish we had some champagne to wrap it around.
BUD: ( gaily ) One napkin, coming up. ( hands it to Fran ) I wish we had some champagne to wrap it around.
MRS. DREYFUSS: ( to Fran ) What did I tell you?
BUD: ( uncomfortable ) Look, Mrs. Dreyfuss, you don't have to wait around. I'll wash the dishes and
MRS. DREYFUSS: You wash 'em, you break 'em. I'll come back for them later. If he makes trouble, give me a yell.
FRAN: She doesn't seem to like you very Oh, I don't mind. As a matter of fact, I'm sort of flattered that anybody should think a girl like you would do a thing like this over a guy like me.
BUD: Oh, I don't mind. As a matter of fact, I'm sort of flattered that anybody should think a girl like you would do a thing like this over a guy like me.
FRAN: ( glancing at night table ) Oh. Did you find something here an envelope ?
BUD: Yes, I've got it. Don't you think we'd better destroy it? So it won't fall into the wrong hands ?
FRAN: Open it. There's nothing here but a hundred dollar bill.
BUD: There's nothing here but a hundred dollar bill.
FRAN: That's right. Will you see that Mr. Sheldrake gets it?
BUD: ( shrugging )
FRAN: ( holding out tray ) Here take this, will you?
BUD: You want me to move the television set in here? You play gin rummy?
FRAN: I'm not very good at it.
BUD: I am. Let me get the cards.
FRAN: You don't have to entertain me.
BUD: Nothing I'd like better you know togetherness. Guess what I did last Christmas. Had an early dinner at the automat, then went to the zoo, then I came home and cleaned up after Mr. Eichelberger he had a little eggnog party here. I'm way ahead this year.
BUD: Three across, spades double, high Eight ten.
FRAN: ( pensively ) I think I'm going to give it all up.
BUD: Give what up?
FRAN: Why do people have to love people, Yeah I know what you mean. I don't want it.
BUD: Yeah I know what you mean. I don't want it.
FRAN: I don't want it.
BUD: Pick a card.
FRAN: What do you call it when somebody keeps getting smashed up in automobile accidents?
BUD: A bad insurance risk?
FRAN: ( nodding ) That's me with men. I've been jinxed from the word go first time I was ever kissed was in a A cemetery?
BUD: A cemetery?
FRAN: I was fifteen we used to go there to smoke. His name was George he threw me over for a drum majorette.
BUD: He spreads his hand. Fran lays her cards down, and Bud adds them up.
BUD: Thirty-six and twenty-five that's sixty-one and two boxes.
FRAN: I just have this talent for falling in love with the wrong guy in the wrong place at the wrong time.
BUD: ( shuffling ) How many guys were there?
FRAN: ( holding up four fingers ) Three. The last one was manager of a finance company, back home in Pittsburgh they found a little shortage in his accounts, but he asked me to wait for him he'll be out in 1965.
BUD: ( pushing the deck toward her ) ( she does, and he starts dealing ) So I came to New York and moved in with my sister and her husband he drives a cab. They sent me to secretarial school, and I applied for a job with Consolidated - but I flunked the typing test
FRAN: ( she does, and he starts dealing ) So I came to New York and moved in with my sister and her husband he drives a cab. They sent me to secretarial school, and I applied for a job with Consolidated - but I flunked the typing test
BUD: Too slow?
FRAN: Oh. I can type up a storm, but I can't spell. So they gave me a pair of white gloves and stuck me in an elevator that's how I met Oh, God, I'm so fouled up. What am I going to do now?
BUD: You better win a hand you're on a blitz.
FRAN: Was he really upset when you told Mr. Sheldrake? Oh, yes. Very.
BUD: Mr. Sheldrake? Oh, yes. Very.
FRAN: Maybe he does love me only he doesn't have the nerve to tell his I'm sure that's the explanation.
BUD: I'm sure that's the explanation.
FRAN: You really think so?
BUD: No doubt about it.
FRAN: ( a thoughtful beat, then ) Can I have that pad and the pencil?
BUD: ( handing her score pad and pencil ) What for?
FRAN: I'm going to write a letter to Mrs. You are?
BUD: You are?
FRAN: As one woman to another I'm sure she'll understand
BUD: Miss Kubelik, I don't think that's such a good idea.
FRAN: Why not?
BUD: Well, for one thing, you can't spell. And secondly if you did something like that you'd hate I don't like myself very much anyway.
FRAN: ( fighting back tears ) I don't like myself very much anyway.
BUD: Pick up your cards and let's go.
FRAN: Do I have to?
BUD: You bet. I got a terrific hand.
BUD: You sure you want to throw that card?
FRAN: He removes the cards from her hand, starts to add them up.
BUD: He removes the cards from her hand, starts to add them up.
BUD: Fifty-two and twenty-five that's seventy-seven spades is double a hundred and fifty-four and four boxes you're blitzed in two
BUD: ( muttering to himself ) All right all right, Mrs.
KIRKEBY: Hi, Baxter.
BUD: ( blocking the door ) What do you want?
KIRKEBY: What do I ? Just a minute.
BUD: You can't come in.
KIRKEBY: ( closing the door behind him ) What's the matter with you, Buddy- boy? I made a reservation for four o'clock, remember?
BUD: Look, you can't stay here. Just take your champagne and go.
KIRKEBY: Baxter, I don't want to pull rank on you but I told the lady it was all set you want to make a liar out of me?
BUD: Are you going to leave, Mr. Kirkeby, or do I have to throw you out?
KIRKEBY: Buddy-boy, why didn't you say so? You got yourself a little playmate, Now will you get out?
BUD: Now will you get out?
SYLVIA: ( knocking on the door ) Hey, come on, what are we waiting for? Open up, will you? ( calling ) Mildred !
DR. DREYFUSS: ( calling ) Mildred !
SYLVIA: ( knocking on Baxter's door ) What's holding things up?
KIRKEBY: Say, why don't we have ourselves a party the four of us?
BUD: He forces Kirkeby toward the hall door. Kirkeby, glancing past him through the partly-open door of the bedroom, catches sight of Fran asleep in bed.
KIRKEBY: ( grinning smugly ) Well, I don't blame you. So you hit the jackpot, eh kid I mean, ( Bud opens the door, gestures him out ) Don't worry. I won't say a word to
KIRKEBY: Stay with it, Buddy-boy! Come on, Sylvia.
SYLVIA: What gives?
KIRKEBY: A little mixup in signals. Let's go.
SYLVIA: Go where?
KIRKEBY: ( leading her toward stairs ) What's your mother doing this She's home stuffing a turkey.
SYLVIA: She's home stuffing a turkey.
KIRKEBY: Why don't we send her to a movie like Ben-Hur?
SYLVIA: That's fine. But what are we going to do about grandma and Uncle Herman and Aunt Sophie and my two
FRAN: Who was that?
BUD: Just somebody delivering a bottle of champagne. Like some?
FRAN: ( shaking her head ) Would you mind opening the window?
BUD: Now don't go getting any ideas, Miss Kubelik.
FRAN: I just want some fresh air.
BUD: It's only one story down the best you can do is break a leg.
FRAN: So they'll shoot me like a horse.
BUD: ( approaching the bed ) Please, Miss Kubelik, you got to promise me you won't do anything Who'd care?
FRAN: Who'd care?
BUD: I would.
FRAN: ( sleepily ) Why can't I ever fall in love with somebody nice like you?
BUD: ( ruefully ) Yeah. Well that's the way it crumbles, cookie-wise. Go to sleep.
SECRETARIES: ( ad lib ) Good morning, Mr. Sheldrake.
SHELDRAKE: ( ignoring them ) Miss Olsen, will you come into my office, please?
MISS OLSEN: Did you have a nice Christmas?
SHELDRAKE: Lovely. You were a big help.
MISS OLSEN: Thank you for giving that little pep talk to Miss Kubelik at the office party.
SHELDRAKE: Thank you for giving that little pep talk to Miss Kubelik at the office party.
MISS OLSEN: ( dropping her business-like mask ) I'm sorry, Jeff. You know I could never hold my liquor
SHELDRAKE: But I thought you could hold your It won't happen again.
MISS OLSEN: It won't happen again.
SHELDRAKE: You bet it won't. I'll arrange for you to get a month's severance That's right, Miss Olsen. I'm letting you go.
MISS OLSEN: ( quietly ) You let me go four years ago, Jeff. Only you were cruel enough to make me sit out there and watch the new models pass by.
SHELDRAKE: I'd appreciate it if you'd be out of here as soon as you can.
MISS OLSEN: ( formal again ) Yes, Mr. Sheldrake.
SHELDRAKE: ( into phone ) This is Mr. Sheldrake. I'd like Mr. Baxter's home telephone number that's C.C. Baxter, in Ordinary Premium Accounting
SHELDRAKE: Hello, Baxter? Jeff Sheldrake. Can you talk?
BUD: ( looking off ) Yes, she's in the shower she's coming along fine, considering.
SHELDRAKE: Good. Is there anything you need money ?
BUD: No, thank you, Mr. Sheldrake. As a matter of fact, I've got some money for you a hundred dollars
SHELDRAKE: ( a beat ) Well, if there's anything I can do for you
BUD: For me? I don't think so. But I was hoping maybe you could do something for her
SHELDRAKE: Like what? Put yourself in my place, Baxter how can I help her my hands are tied
BUD: ( into phone ) Well, at least you can talk to her let me put her on and please be gentle
BUD: There's a call for you
FRAN: ( approaching ) For me?
BUD: Mr. Sheldrake.
FRAN: I don't want to talk to him.
BUD: I think you should. I have to run down to the grocery anyway all that's left around here is one frozen pizza I'll be right back okay?
FRAN: ( into phone ) Hello, Jeff. ( a long beat ) Yes, I'm all right.
SHELDRAKE: Fran, why did you do it? It's so childish and it never solves anything I ought to be very angry with you, scaring me like that but let's forget the whole thing pretend it never happened what do you say, Fran?
SHELDRAKE: Are you there, Fran?
FRAN: Of course I'm not here because the whole thing never happened I never took those pills I never loved you we never even met isn't that the way you want it?
SHELDRAKE: There you go again you know I didn't mean it that way, Fran. Just get well do what the nurse tells you I mean Baxter and I'll see you as soon as I can. Bye, Fran.
MISS OLSEN: ( into phone ) Hello, Mrs. Sheldrake? This is Miss Olsen fine, thank you Mrs. Sheldrake, I was wondering if we could have lunch together? well, I don't know how important it is, but I think you might find it educational it concerns your husband all right, one o'clock, at Longchamp's, Madison and 59th.
MISS OLSEN: ( hanging up phone ) Don't worry, I'm on my way. ( she rises ) I was just making a personal call. Here's a dime.
MISS OLSEN: Here's a dime.
MRS. LIEBERMAN: ( breathlessly ) Oh, Mr. Baxter I'm glad you're here I was just going to get the What for?
BUD: What for?
MRS. LIEBERMAN: I thought I smelled gas coming from your apartment.
BUD: He races up the stairs two at a time, fumbling frantically for his key. Reaching the door of his apartment, he unlocks it, dashes in.
BUD: ( calling ) Miss Kubelik!
BUD: Miss Kubelik!
BUD: Are you all right?
FRAN: ( sniffs ) What's that funny smell?
BUD: ( indicating kitchen ) Didn't you turn it on?
FRAN: Yes. I was boiling some water to get the coffee stains out of my You turned it on but you didn't light it.
BUD: ( accusingly ) You turned it on but you didn't light it.
FRAN: Are you supposed to?
BUD: In this house, you're supposed to.
FRAN: Bud starts to take off his hat and coat, notices the sock- stretcher in her hand.
BUD: What are you doing with that?
FRAN: I was washing my stockings, so I decided I might as well do your Thank you.
BUD: Thank you.
FRAN: It's very curious I could only find three and a half pair.
BUD: Well, things are a little disorganized around here.
FRAN: I'd say. What's a tennis racquet doing in the kitchen?
BUD: Tennis racquet? Oh, I remember I was cooking myself an Italian I used it to strain the spaghetti.
FRAN: ( thinking it over ) Why not?
BUD: As a matter of fact, I'm a pretty good cook but I'm a lousy Yes, you are, When I was straightening up the couch, you know what I found? Six hairpins, a lipstick, a pair of false eyelashes, and a swizzle stick from the Stork Club.
FRAN: Yes, you are, When I was straightening up the couch, you know what I found? Six hairpins, a lipstick, a pair of false eyelashes, and a swizzle stick from the Stork Club.
BUD: ( shrugging ) It's just that I'm the kind of guy who can't say no I don't mean to girls I mean
FRAN: You mean to someone like Mr. I guess so.
BUD: I guess so.
FRAN: I know so. He's a taker.
BUD: A what?
FRAN: Some people take, some people get took and they know they're getting took and there's nothing they can do about it.
BUD: I wouldn't say that What would you like to have for diner? There's onion soup and canned asparagus
FRAN: I really ought to be getting home. My family will be flipping by now.
BUD: You can't leave yet. The doctor says it takes forty-eight hours to get the stuff out of your system.
FRAN: ( wistfully ) I wonder how long it takes to get someone you're stuck on out of your system? If they'd only invent some kind of a pump for that
BUD: I know how you feel, Miss Kubelik. You think it's the end of the world but it's not, really. I went through exactly the same thing You did?
FRAN: You did?
BUD: Well, maybe not exactly I tried to do it with a gun.
FRAN: Over a girl?
BUD: Worse than that she was the wife of my best friend and I was mad for her. But I knew it was hopeless so I decided to end it all. I went to a pawnshop and bought a forty-five automatic and drove up to Eden Park do you know Cincinnati?
FRAN: No, I don't.
BUD: Anyway, I parked the car and loaded the gun well, you read in the papers all the time that people shoot themselves, but believe me, it's not that easy I mean, how do you do it? here, or here, or you know where I finally shot In the knee?
FRAN: ( indicating kneecap ) In the knee?
BUD: ( indicating kneecap ) In the knee?
FRAN: In the knee?
BUD: Uh-huh. While I was sitting there, trying to make my mind up, a cop stuck his head in the car, because I was illegally parked so I started to hide the gun under the seat and it went off pow!
FRAN: ( laughing ) That's terrible.
BUD: Yeah. Took me a year before I could bend my knee but I got over the girl in three weeks. She still lives in Cincinnati, has four kids, gained twenty pounds she sends me a fruit cake every Christmas.
FRAN: ( suddenly suspicious ) Are you just making that up to make me feel better?
BUD: Of course not. Here's the fruit And you want to see my knee?
FRAN: No, thanks. The fellows in the office may get the wrong idea how I found out.
BUD: So let 'em. Look, I'm going to cook dinner for us. We'll have the fruit cake for dessert. You just sit there and rest. You've done enough for one day.
FRAN: ( smiling ) Yes, nurse.
ELEVATOR STARTER: Can I help you?
MATUSCHKA: I'm looking for one of the elevator girls Miss Kubelik.
ELEVATOR STARTER: So am I. She didn't report this She didn't. Where can I get some information who's in charge here?
MATUSCHKA: She didn't. Where can I get some information who's in charge here?
ELEVATOR STARTER: That comes under General Office Administration. See Mr. Dobisch, twenty-first floor.
MATUSCHKA: He steps into an elevator, the doors of which are just INT. DOBISCH'S OFFICE - DAY Dobisch is sitting behind his desk, lighting a cigar. Kirkeby, who has dropped in for a little visit, is perched on the edge of the desk.
KIRKEBY: so yesterday afternoon I take Sylvia up to the apartment, and guess who he's got stashed away in the bedroom?
DOBISCH: No kidding. Buddy-boy and Kubelik having themselves a little toot!
KIRKEBY: No kidding. Buddy-boy and Kubelik having themselves a little toot!
DOBISCH: No kidding. Buddy-boy and Kubelik having themselves a little toot!
KIRKEBY: Toot? It's more like a lost weekend. Neither of them showed up for work What gripes me is the two of them were guzzling my champagne while Sylvia and I wound up at the Guggenheim Museum.
DOBISCH: What gripes me is the two of them were guzzling my champagne while Sylvia and I wound up at the Guggenheim Museum.
A.W.O.L.?: What gripes me is the two of them were guzzling my champagne while Sylvia and I wound up at the Guggenheim Museum.
KIRKEBY: What gripes me is the two of them were guzzling my champagne while Sylvia and I wound up at the Guggenheim Museum.
MATUSCHKA: Mr. Dobisch?
DOBISCH: My name is Karl Matuschka my sister-in-law, she runs one of the elevators here Fran Kubelik.
MATUSCHKA: My name is Karl Matuschka my sister-in-law, she runs one of the elevators here Fran Kubelik.
KIRKEBY: ( exchanging a glance with Dobisch ) Miss Kubelik?
MATUSCHKA: You know her?
DOBISCH: Of course. There may be a lot of employees here but we're one big happy family.
MATUSCHKA: Well, she lives with us and my wife, she's getting a little nervous on account of Fran hasn't been home for two days.
KIRKEBY: ( another look at Dobisch ) That so.
MATUSCHKA: Anyway, we was wondering if somebody in the office would know what happened to her.
DOBISCH: I see. What do you think, Al? Can we help the man?
KIRKEBY: ( after a pregnant pause ) Why not? We don't owe Buddy-boy Yeah. What's Buddy-boy done for us ( scowling ) Who is Buddy-boy?
DOBISCH: Yeah. What's Buddy-boy done for us Who is Buddy-boy?
MATUSCHKA: ( scowling ) Who is Buddy-boy?
FRAN: Are we dressing for dinner?
BUD: No just come as you are.
FRAN: ( watching him ) Say, you're pretty good with that You ought to see my backhand. ( dumping spaghetti into platter ) And wait till I serve the meatballs. ( demonstrates )
BUD: You ought to see my backhand. And wait till I serve the meatballs.
FRAN: Shall I light the candles?
BUD: It's a must gracious-living-wise.
FRAN: I see you bought some napkins.
BUD: Might as well go all the way.
BUD: You know, I used to live like Robinson Crusoe shipwrecked among eight million people. Then one day I saw a footprint in the sand and there you were It's a wonderful thing dinner for two.
FRAN: You usually eat alone?
BUD: Oh, no. Sometimes I have dinner with Ed Sullivan, sometimes with Dinah Shore or Perry Como the other night I had dinner with Mae West of course, she was much younger then.
FRAN: They drink.
BUD: You know what we're going to do after dinner?
FRAN: The dishes?
BUD: I mean, after that?
FRAN: You don't have to if you don't want I don't?
BUD: You don't have to if you don't want I don't?
FRAN: I don't?
BUD: We're going to finish that gin game.
FRAN: So I want you to keep a clear head.
BUD: So I want you to keep a clear head.
BUD: Because I don't want to take advantage of you the way I did yesterday in bed.
MATUSCHKA: Matuschka shoves him roughly aside, strides past him toward Fran, who has risen to her feet.
BUD: Matuschka shoves him roughly aside, strides past him toward Fran, who has risen to her feet.
MATUSCHKA: What's with you, Fran did you forget where you live?
FRAN: ( to Bud ) This is my brother-in-law, Karl ( friendly ) How do you do, Mr. Matuschka?
BUD: ( friendly ) How do you do, Mr. Matuschka?
MATUSCHKA: ( pushing Bud away; to Fran ) Okay, get your clothes on. I got the cab downstairs.
BUD: Now, wait a minute. I know what you're thinking but it's not as bad as it looks
MATUSCHKA: ( shoving him away ) It's none of my business what you do, Fran you're over twenty- one but your sister happens to think you're a lady.
BUD: All we were going to do is eat and wash the dishes
MATUSCHKA: ( grabbing him ) Look, Buddy-boy if there wasn't a lady present, I'd clobber you.
FRAN: ( separating them ) All right, Karl I'll get dressed.
BUD: Care for a martini? Champagne? How about a little spaghetti with meat sauce? Made it myself. Your sister-in-law sure is Must be murder driving a cab in New York I mean, with all that cross-town traffic
DR. DREYFUSS: Hi, Baxter.
DR. DREYFUSS: How's the patient?
BUD: ( quickly ) Oh, I'm fine, Doc.
DR. DREYFUSS: Not you Miss Kubelik.
MATUSCHKA: ( stepping forward ) What's the matter with Miss Kubelik?
BUD: Oh, this is Mr. Matuschka he's Miss Kubelik's he's got a cab Fran been sick or something?
MATUSCHKA: ( to Dreyfuss ) Fran been sick or something?
BUD: No, no just had a little accident.
MATUSCHKA: ( to Dreyfuss ) What does he mean, accident?
DR. DREYFUSS: Well, these things happen all the What things? Say, what kind of doctor are you, Oh, not that kind. He just gave her a shot and pumped her stomach out
MATUSCHKA: What things? Say, what kind of doctor are you, Oh, not that kind. He just gave her a shot and pumped her stomach out
BUD: ( hastily ) Oh, not that kind. He just gave her a shot and pumped her stomach out
MATUSCHKA: What for?
FRAN: ( coming up ) Because I took some sleeping pills. But I'm all right now so let's go.
MATUSCHKA: Why did you take sleeping pills?
BUD: ( promptly ) On account of me.
MATUSCHKA: ( whirling on him ) Who else?
BUD: Who else?
FRAN: Leave him alone, Karl.
FRAN: ( tenderly ) You fool you damn fool.
MATUSCHKA: Come on, Fran.
FRAN: Goodbye, Mr. Baxter.
FRAN: Goodbye, doctor.
DR. DREYFUSS: I don't want to gloat, but just between us, you had that coming to Tch, tch, tch. Are you going to have a shiner tomorrow. Let me get my bag.
BUD: ( calling after him ) Don't bother, Doc. It doesn't hurt a bit.
BUD: ( into phone ) Mr. Sheldrake's office? This is C.C. Baxter. Would you please tell Mr. Sheldrake I'd like to come up and see him? It's rather important. Will you call me back, please?
BUD: Mr. Sheldrake, I've got good news for you. All your troubles are over. I'm going to take Miss Kubelik off your hands. The plain fact is, Mr. Sheldrake, that I love her. I haven't told her yet, but I thought you should be the first to know. After all, you don't really want her, and I do, and although it may sound presumptuous, she needs somebody like me. So I think it would be the thing all around Yes? I'll be right up.
BUD: ( to himself ) Mr. Sheldrake, I've got good news for you
KIRKEBY: Hi, Buddy-boy. What happened to you?
DOBISCH: Hit by a swinging door? Or maybe a Yellow Cab?
KIRKEBY: ( as they move away from the elevators ) That guy really must've belted him.
DOBISCH: Yeah, he's punchy. Talking to
ELEVATOR OPERATOR: Bud steps out. As he heads for Sheldrake's office, he continues rehearsing his speech.
BUD: You see, Mr. Sheldrake, those two days she spent in the apartment it made me realize how lonely I'd been before. But thanks to you, I'm in a financial position to marry her if I can ever square things with her family.
SECRETARY'S VOICE: Mr. Baxter is here.
SHELDRAKE: Send him in.
BUD: Mr. Sheldrake, I've got good news for you
SHELDRAKE: And I've got good news for you, Baxter. All your troubles are over.
BUD: ( reacting to the echo ) I know how worried you were about Miss Kubelik well, stop worrying I'm going to take her off your hands.
SHELDRAKE: I know how worried you were about Miss Kubelik well, stop worrying I'm going to take her off your hands.
BUD: ( stunned ) You're going to take her off my That's right. ( indicating suitcases ) I've moved out of my house I'm going to be staying in town, at the Athletic Club.
SHELDRAKE: That's right. I've moved out of my house I'm going to be staying in town, at the Athletic Club.
BUD: You left your wife?
SHELDRAKE: Well, if you must know I fired my secretary, my secretary got to my wife, and my wife fired me. Ain't that a kick in the head?
BUD: Now what was your news, Baxter?
SHELDRAKE: Now what was your news, Baxter?
BUD: ( recovering with difficulty ) It's about Miss Kubelik she's all right again so she went back Swell. And don't think I've forgotten what you did for me. ( opens door to adjoining office ) This way, Baxter.
SHELDRAKE: Swell. And don't think I've forgotten what you did for me. This way, Baxter.
SHELDRAKE: Sit down. Try it on for size.
SHELDRAKE: You like? It's all yours.
BUD: My assistant, Roy Thompson, has been shifted to the Denver office, and you're taking his place. What's the matter, Baxter? You don't seem very excited.
SHELDRAKE: My assistant, Roy Thompson, has been shifted to the Denver office, and you're taking his place. What's the matter, Baxter? You don't seem very excited.
BUD: Well, it's just that so many things have been happening so fast I'm very pleased especially for Miss Kubelik. Now that I've gotten to know her better, I think she's the kind of girl that definitely ought to be married to somebody
SHELDRAKE: Oh, sure, sure. But first the property settlement has to be worked out then it takes six weeks in Reno meanwhile, I'm going to enjoy being a bachelor for a while. Oh, by the way, you can now have lunch in the executive dining Yes, sir.
BUD: Yes, sir.
SHELDRAKE: That's just one of the privileges that goes with this job. You also get a nice little expense account, the use of the executive washroom Say, what happened to you, Baxter?
BUD: I got kicked in the head, too.
SHELDRAKE: With a shrug, he exits into his own office, closing the door behind him. Bud sits there, unconsciously bending the glasses in his hand until they suddenly snap in two. Bud glances down at the two broken halves, as though surprised by his own violence, tosses them on the desk.
FRAN: Good evening, Mr. Baxter.
BUD: Oh, Miss Kubelik. How do you feel?
FRAN: Fine. How's your eye?
BUD: There is a moment of constraint between them.
FRAN: How's everything at the apartment?
BUD: Nothing's changed. You know, we never finished that gin game
FRAN: I know. I suppose you heard about Mr. Sheldrake ?
BUD: You mean, leaving his wife? Yeah. I'm very happy for you.
FRAN: I never thought he'd do it.
BUD: I told you all along. You see, you were wrong about Mr. Sheldrake.
FRAN: I guess so.
BUD: For that matter, you were wrong about me, too. What you said about those who take and those who get took? Well, Mr. Sheldrake wasn't using me I was using him. See? Last month I was at desk 861 on the nineteenth floor now I'm on the twenty-seventh floor, paneled office, three windows so it all worked out fine we're both getting what we want.
FRAN: ( looks at her watch ) You walking to the subway?
BUD: No, thank you. I well, to tell you the truth I have this heavy date for
FRAN: Aren't you meeting Mr. Sheldrake?
BUD: Aren't you meeting Mr. Sheldrake?
FRAN: No. You know how people talk. So I decided it would be better if we didn't see each other till everything is settled, divorce-wise.
BUD: That's very wise.
FRAN: Good night, Mr. Baxter.
BUD: Good night, Miss Kubelik.
SHELDRAKE: Baxter would you mind stepping in her for a minute?
BAXTER'S VOICE: Yes, Mr. Sheldrake.
BOOTBLACK: Much obliged.
BUD: ( putting charts on desk ) Here's the breakdown of figures on personnel turnover. Thirty-seven percent of our female employees leave to get married, twenty-two percent quit because
SHELDRAKE: ( breaking in ) You're working too hard, Baxter. It's New Year's Eve relax.
BUD: Yes, sir.
SHELDRAKE: I suppose you'll be on the town tonight celebrating?
BUD: Me, too. I'm taking Miss Kubelik out I finally talked her into I see.
SHELDRAKE: Me, too. I'm taking Miss Kubelik out I finally talked her into I see.
BUD: I see.
SHELDRAKE: The only thing is I'm staying at the Athletic Club and it's strictly stag so if you don't Don't mind what?
BUD: Don't mind what?
SHELDRAKE: You know that other key to your apartment well, when we had that little scare about Miss Kubelik, I thought I'd better get rid of it quick so I threw it out the window of the commuter train.
BUD: Very clever.
SHELDRAKE: Now I'll have to borrow your key.
BUD: Sorry, Mr. Sheldrake.
SHELDRAKE: What do you mean, sorry?
BUD: You're not going to bring anybody up to my apartment.
SHELDRAKE: I'm not just bringing anybody I'm bringing Miss Kubelik.
BUD: Especially not Miss Kubelik.
SHELDRAKE: How's that again?
BUD: ( flatly ) No key!
SHELDRAKE: Baxter, I picked you for my team because I thought you were a bright young man. You realize what you're doing? Not to me but to yourself. Normally it takes years to work your way up to the twenty-seventh floor but it takes only thirty seconds to be out on the street again. You dig?
BUD: ( nodding slowly ) I dig.
SHELDRAKE: So what's it going to be?
SHELDRAKE: Now you're being bright?
BUD: Thank you, sir.
SHELDRAKE: Say, Baxter you gave me the wrong key.
BUD: No I didn't.
SHELDRAKE: ( holding it out ) But this is the key to the executive That's right, Mr. Sheldrake. I won't be needing it because I'm all washed up around here.
BUD: That's right, Mr. Sheldrake. I won't be needing it because I'm all washed up around here.
SHELDRAKE: What's gotten into you, Baxter?
BUD: Just following doctor's orders. I've decided to become a mensch. You know what that means? A human Now hold on, Baxter
SHELDRAKE: Now hold on, Baxter
BUD: Save it. The old payola won't work any more. Goodbye, Mr. Sheldrake.
DR. DREYFUSS: Say, Baxter we're having a little party and we ran out of ice so I was wondering
BUD: Sure, Doc.
DR. DREYFUSS: ( stepping inside ) How come you're alone on New Year's Well, I have things to do
BUD: Well, I have things to do
DR. DREYFUSS: ( noticing cartons ) What's this you packing?
BUD: Yeah I'm giving up the apartment.
DR. DREYFUSS: Where are you moving to?
BUD: I don't know. All I know is I got to get out of this place.
DR. DREYFUSS: Sorry to lose you, Baxter.
BUD: Me? Oh, you mean my body. Don't worry, Doc it'll go to the University I'll put it in
BUD: Can you use a bottle of champagne?
DR. DREYFUSS: Booze we don't need. Why don't you join us, Baxter? We got two brain surgeons, an ear, nose and throat specialist, a proctologist, and three nurses from Bellevue.
BUD: No, thanks I don't feel like it. Look, Doc in case I don't see you again how much do I owe you for taking care of that girl?
DR. DREYFUSS: Forget it I didn't do it as a doctor I did it as a neighbor. By the way, whatever happened to her?
BUD: ( airily ) You know me with girls. Easy come, easy go. Goodbye, Doc.
DR. DREYFUSS: Happy New Year.
SHELDRAKE: Sorry it took me so long on the phone. But we're all set.
FRAN: All set for what?
SHELDRAKE: I rented a car it's going to be here at one o'clock we're driving to Atlantic City.
FRAN: Atlantic City?
SHELDRAKE: I know it's a drag but you can't find a hotel room in town not on New Year's Eve.
FRAN: ( a long look at Sheldrake ) Ring out the old year, ring in the new. Ring-a-ding-ding.
SHELDRAKE: I didn't plan it this way, Fran actually, it's all Baxter's fault.
FRAN: He wouldn't give me the key to the He wouldn't.
SHELDRAKE: He wouldn't give me the key to the He wouldn't.
FRAN: He wouldn't.
SHELDRAKE: Just walked out on me quit threw that big fat job right in my The nerve.
FRAN: ( a faint smile ) The nerve.
SHELDRAKE: That little punk after all I did for him! He said I couldn't bring anybody to his apartment especially not Miss Kubelik. What's he got against you, anyway?
FRAN: ( a faraway look in her eye ) I don't know. I guess that's the way it crumbles cookie-wise.
SHELDRAKE: What are you talking about?
FRAN: I'd spell it out for you only I can't spell. Happy New Year, Fran.
SHELDRAKE: Happy New Year, Fran.
SHELDRAKE: ( looking around ) where are you, Fran?
FRAN: Mr. Baxter! Mr. Baxter! Mr. Baxter!
FRAN: ( sagging with relief ) Are you all right?
BUD: I'm fine.
FRAN: Are you sure? How's your knee?
BUD: I'm fine all over.
FRAN: Mind if I come in?
BUD: ( still stunned ) Of course not.
BUD: Let me get another glass.
FRAN: ( looking around ) Where are you going?
BUD: Who knows? Another neighborhood another town another job I'm on my own.
FRAN: That's funny so am I. What did you do with the cards?
BUD: ( indicating carton ) In there.
BUD: What about Mr. Sheldrake?
FRAN: I'm going to send him a fruit cake every Christmas.
FRAN: Bud cuts a card, but doesn't look at it.
BUD: I love you, Miss Kubelik.
FRAN: ( cutting a card ) ( looking at Bud's card )
BUD: Did you hear what I said, Miss Kubelik? I absolutely adore you.
FRAN: ( smiling ) Shut up and deal!
