CHARLIE: . It's crazy sugar is up to 200 dollars a ton sugar !
LAWYER: What about oil ?
CHARLIE: Food, oil look, let me show you something. This is the economy of the United States in two years He takes a newspaper, draws a circle.
CHARLIE: ( continuing ) This is West Germany. ( he draws another, This is Japan. ( another , bigger ) This is Italy. ( a dot ) This is Iran. ( a very big circle ) And this is Saudi Arabia. In two years ? ( a gigantic circle ) Do you understand ?
ACCOUNTANT: What's to prevent it ?
CHARLIE: Maybe nothing. But I'll tell you, I didn't build a two-billion-dollar company in the last twenty years by doing nothing. We can protect our interests. We are still the most powerful nation in the world. Militarily. He leans to his associates, in a half-whisper.
CHARLIE: ( continuing ) You know bodyguard; he was a captain in Viet Nam. You talk to him, except he won't talk. This kind of man can kill you with his pinky. A nice quiet fella, though. The VIEW BEGINS TO PULL AWAY from this group.
CHARLIE: ( continuing ) Carries a attache case at all times. You know what's in it ? ( another sip ) An Ingram Machine pistol. Gradually, Charlie's voice softens as we MOVE AWAY, and a NEW VOICE, the voice of someone thinking, COMES IN OVER it :
CAPTAIN: How about a drink ?
WILLARD: Sure, thanks. He sits down at the table with the drinks.
CAPTAIN: Winning the war by yourself.
WILLARD: ( he calls for the waiter ) Which part is that ?
CAPTAIN: Which part is that ?
WILLARD: My part.
CAPTAIN: That's good gin.
WILLARD: I'm sure it is, but I had hepatitis.
CAPTAIN: Delta ?
WILLARD: North ?
CAPTAIN: North ?
WILLARD: Yeah. Way north.
CAPTAIN: What unit were you with ?
WILLARD: Rangers, eh?
CAPTAIN: Rangers, eh?
WILLARD: Sort of. The JUKE BOX starts BLARING. Annoyed , Willard looks over his shoulder.
CAPTAIN: Were you Longe Range Recon
WILLARD: No I worked too far north for
CAPTAIN: That's quite an array of ribbons.
WILLARD: Let's talk about you.
CAPTAIN: I was an FO for the 25th.
WILLARD: Tracks ?
CAPTAIN: Fat. That's real fat.
WILLARD: Fat. That's real fat.
CAPTAIN: At least you always have enough water. How many gallons does each one of those damn things carry ?
WILLARD: At least you always have enough water. How many gallons does each one of those damn things carry ?
CAPTAIN: Thirty sometimes fifty.
WILLARD: You know, I can remember once, getting back below the DMZ and the first Americans we ran into were a track squadron. I just couldn't believe how much water they had. We'd been chewing bamboo shoots for almost a week, and before that, for two weeks, we'd been drinking anything rain water, river shit, stuff right out of the paddies. And there were these guys standing by their trucks spilling water all over. I could've killed them. I swear to God I would have, too, if .
CAPTAIN: I didn't know we had units up there in North Vietnam.
WILLARD: We do.
CAPTAIN: How long were you up there ?
WILLARD: A long time.
CAPTAIN: A year ? Waiter another beer.
WILLARD: I go up on missions. Listen Captain, buy me all the beer you want, but you better tell that asshole over there you're not going to find out anymore about me. Willard glances over his shoulder and indicates the Civilian. The Civilian is given a sign by the Captain. He rises and comes over to the bar.
WILLARD: ( continuing ) What do you want ?
CIVILIAN: ( indicating the Army jeep ) If you're B.L. Willard, 4th Recon Group, we'd like you to come with Whose orders ?
WILLARD: Whose orders ?
CAPTAIN: Headquarters 11 Corps 405th A.S.A Battalion S-2 Com-Sec Intelligence Nha Trang.
WILLARD: Who are you ?
CIVILIAN: The agency. Willard looks at the Civilian a moment, and then walks roght out toward the jeep without saying another word. The Civilian follows.
WILLARD: Captain B.L. Willard, G-4 Headquarters, reporting as ordered, sir.
COLONEL: Have you ever seen this officer before, Captain Willard ? He points to the Major.
WILLARD: No, sir.
COLONEL: This gentleman or myself ?
WILLARD: No, sir.
COLONEL: I believe on your last job you executed a tax collector in Kontum, is that right ?
WILLARD: I am not presently disposed to discuss that, sir.
MAJOR: Very good. He turns to the Colonel and nods his approval. The Colonel gets up and goes to a large plastic map.
COLONEL: You know much about about Special Forces; Green Berets, Captain ?
WILLARD: I've worked with them on occasions and I saw the movie , sir. The officer smiles at this.
COLONEL: Then you can appreciate Command's concern over their shall we say 'erratic' methods of operation. I have never favored elite units, Captain, including your paratroopers or whatever. Just because a man jumps out of an airplane or wears a silly hat doesn't give him any priviliges in my book not in this man's army.
MAJOR: We didn't need 'em in Korea no sir, give me an Ohio farm boy and an M-1 Garand, none of this fancy crap no sir.
CIVILIAN: ( stopping him ) We have Special Forces A detachments all along the Cambodian border. Two here and another one here twelve or fourteen Americans pretty much on their own; they train and motivate Montagnard natives; pick their own operations. If they need something, they call for it, and get it within reason. What we're concerned with is here.
COLONEL: We have Special Forces A detachments all along the Cambodian border. Two here and another one here twelve or fourteen Americans pretty much on their own; they train and motivate Montagnard natives; pick their own operations. If they need something, they call for it, and get it within reason. What we're concerned with is here.
COLONEL: The A detachment at Nu Mung Ba. It was originally a larger base, built up along the river in an old Cambodian fortress.
COLONEL: . Captain, we know something's going on up there Major The Major looks at some papers in front of him.
MAJOR: Communications naturally dwindled with the lack of V.C. activity, this is routine, expected . but six months ago communication virtually stopped.
COLONEL: About the same time large numbers of Montagnards of the M'Nong descent began leaving the area this in itself is not unusual since these people have fought with the Rhade Tribe that lived in the area for centuries. But what is unusual is that we began to find Rhade refugees too in the same sampans as the M'Nongs. These people aren't afraid of V.C. They've put up with war for twenty years but something is driving them out.
MAJOR: We communicate with the base infrequently. What they call for are air strikes, immediate always at night. And we don't know what or who the air strikes are called on.
WILLARD: Who ?
MAJOR: You see, no one has really gone into this area and come back alive.
WILLARD: Why me ?
MAJOR: Walter Kurtz, Lieutenant Colonel, Special Forces. We understand you knew him. He puts Kurtz' dossier in Willard's hand.
WILLARD: He's commanding the detachment at Nu Mung Ba. The Colonel gets up and walks over to a tape recorder, flicks it on. The recording is first STATIC the AIR CONTROLLER then asks for more information on target coordinates it all sounds very routine, military. Then a frantic VOICE comes on, talking slurred, like someone dumb, except very fast.
COLONEL: He's commanding the detachment at Nu Mung Ba. The Colonel gets up and walks over to a tape recorder, flicks it on. The recording is first STATIC the AIR CONTROLLER then asks for more information on target coordinates it all sounds very routine, military. Then a frantic VOICE comes on, talking slurred, like someone dumb, except very fast.
SECOND VOICE: Blue Delta five This Big Rhine three Need that ordinance immediately Goddamn give it to me immediate Christ Big Rhino Blue God Delta damn goddamn. A heavy BURST of AUTOMATIC WEAPONS FIRE INSANE LAUGHTER STATIC, and faintly, very faintly we HEAR HARD ROCK MUSIC more STATIC suddenly a low, clear VOICE peaceful and serene, almost tasting the words.
THIRD VOICE: This is Big Rhino six Blue Delta.
MAJOR: That's Colonel Kurtz.
WILLARD: I only met Kurtz once.
CIVILIAN: Would he remember you ?
WILLARD: What was your impression of him ? Willard shrugs.
COLONEL: What was your impression of him ? Willard shrugs.
CIVILIAN: You didn't like him.
WILLARD: Anyone got a cigarette. The Major offers him one; they wait as he lights up, thinks.
WILLARD: ( continuing ) I thought he was a lame.
COLONEL: A lame ?
WILLARD: This is years ago, before he joined Special Forces, I guess. We had an argument.
COLONEL: About what ?
WILLARD: I don't know. He was a lame, that's all.
COLONEL: But why ?
WILLARD: He couldn't get through a sentence without all these big words; about why we kill.
COLONEL: Well, he's killing now.
WILLARD: What does that mean ?
CIVILIAN: What does that mean ?
WILLARD: Maybe it's not Kurtz. I don't believe he's capable of that. I just don't believe it.
COLONEL: It's got to be Kurtz.
CIVILIAN: The point is that Kurtz or somebody attacked a South Vietnamese Ranger Platoon three days ago. Last week a Recon helicopter was lost in the area another took heavy damage direct fire from their base Our Recon flight ?
WILLARD: Our Recon flight ?
CIVILIAN: You can see, of course, the implications, if any of this even rumours leaked out.
WILLARD: You can see, of course, the implications, if any of this even rumours leaked out.
CIVILIAN: You can see, of course, the implications, if any of this even rumours leaked out.
WILLARD: You want me to clean it up simple and quiet.
CIVILIAN: Exactly you'll go up the Nung River in a Navy P.B.R. appear at Nu Mung Ba as if by accident, re-establish your acquintance with Colonel Kurtz, find out what's happened and why. Then terminate his command.
WILLARD: Terminate ?
CIVILIAN: Terminate with extreme prejudice.
WILLARD: Chief, try to keep out of where we're going Why we're goin' and what's gonna be the big surprise.
CHIEF: All right with me, I used to drive a taxi.
WILLARD: Let's go. The Chief nods. They all break formation and jump aboard and otherwise go about their work. The twin diesels kick up and t he boat moves away from the dock. The Chef jumps aboard; Lance mans the forward twin fifty-caliber machine guns they wave to the guards on the dock and move away into the complexity that leads to the ocean.
CHIEF: The Delta closes off to us about ten miles out of Hau Fat. We'll be able to pick up some supplies bit I think there are only two points we can draw enough water to get into the Nung River. It's all Charlie's turf from there on We're gonna have some help to get in the river. You know these waters, Chief ?
WILLARD: We're gonna have some help to get in the river. You know these waters, Chief ?
CHIEF: 'Bout six months ago I took a man up to Lo Mung Bridge. He was regular Army too. Shot himself in the head. I brought his body back down.
WILLARD: Shot himself. What for ?
CHIEF: Beats me the sun was too much for him, or the mud. Who knows ? Pause, looking at Willard.
WILLARD: Arch light.
CHEF: I hate that Every time I hear that noise something terrible Anybody see some smoke ?
CHIEF: Anybody see some smoke ?
CLEAN: Too far inland.
LANCE: There they are. He points up to the sky.
CLEAN: Charlie don't ever hear 'em. Not till it's too late don't have to hit you neither, concussion'll do it for a quarter mile or better. Burst your ears suck the air outta your lungs.
LANCE: They look as a Chris-craft speeds by pulling a fancy water- skier who waves as he slaloms by. The men just look at one another.
CHIEF: Lance I want you to go with the Captain an' get three extra drums of fuel and maybe scrounge some more 50 caliber.
LANCE: Yeah look at those uniforms.
CHIEF: Poor bastards, have a long year to go. The troops turn and march TOWARD US with six weeks of Advanced Infantry Training to back them up.
SERGEANT: I don't know anything about these papers, sir.
WILLARD: They're in order it's perfectly clean just check with ComSec- Intel like I said.
SERGEANT: Well, you know I don't have the priority to do that, sir. It says here not to contact Com-Sec- Int. Who's your commanding officer ?
WILLARD: Right now I am.
SERGEANT: Well who the hell verifies that ?
WILLARD: I do. He signs it quickly, leaving the Sergeant totally confused.
CHIEF: No shit what's all the activity for around here ?
SERGEANT: The show
WILLARD: What show ?
SERGEANT: Big show in the parade grounds this noon some boss stuff
WILLARD: This Bob Hope or the like
SERGEANT: No sir, I think this'll be a little bit different
CHIEF: Where's it gonna be ? He points
CHEF: It's really too much I mean I've collected every picture of her since she was Miss December.
CLEAN: Yeah you can really get hung up on them like the cat in the What cat ?
CHIEF: What cat ?
CLEAN: One that went up for murder he was an Army Sergeant.
CHIEF: I never heard about that.
CLEAN: Yeah he really dug his Playboy mag, man I mean like he was there when it arrived He just knew.
CHEF: So what happened ?
CLEAN: He was working A.R.V.N. patrols and had one a them little cocky gook asshole Lieutenants anyhow, the Lieutenant took his new Playboy one day, sat on the end of the dock, and wouldn't give it back.
CHEF: Yeah typical A.R.V.N.
CLEAN: Then went too far he sat there and starts mutilating the centerfold. Poking pins in her an' all that. Sergeant says, don't do her like that. You leave your shitty little hands off that girl. Gook Lieutenant says Fuck you in Vietnamese Sergeant says, don't do that again. You'll wish you hadn't. Then he stood up, flicked his iron to rock and roll and gave the little zero a long burst through the Playboy mag. Man, it blew him clean off the dock Hell, just the magazine was floatin' there all full of holes.
CHIEF: They nail him for it bad ?
CLEAN: He's in the L.B.J. didn't give him no medals or nothing In the b.g., we begin to HEAR a SWELL of TWO THOUSAND MALE VOICES; the ENGINES of four helicopters approaching. All heads turn skywards while one descends onto the pedestal kicking up a lot of dust and general resentment. On the nose amd doors of the black Huey are painted large Playboy rabbits. Finally the blades are trimmed and a strange silence descends over the men. The door of the copter slides partially open two young Green Berets step out with M-16's to varied catcalls. When this abates a young, extremelly well-dressed man emerges. He is the epitome of a Hollywood AGENT. Hair is combed impeccably and free of dandruff clothes are formal but hip shoes are shined Quite some dude his presence causes some stirring but seems to strangely quiet the man. He walks over to the microphone.
AGENT: I'd like to say hello from all of us up here, to all of you out there. All of you who've worked so hard during Operation Brute Force Paratroopers Infantry Airmen Medics Marines and Sailors. And I want you to know that we feel proud of you and know how hard your job is. To prove it we've brought some entertainment we think you're gonna like: The Playmate of the Year and her two runners up ! He pulls open the door and three unbelieveably beautiful sex playmates in fringed go-go outfits leap out and start dancing to the Creedence Clearwater Revival singing "Suzy Q."
CHIEF: Smoke !
WILLARD: Where ? They all turn. Chief points up the coast.
WILLARD: Black smoke . secondary burning. The Chief grabs field glasses.
CHIEF: Yeah fishing village helicopters over there. Hueys, lots of 'em.
WILLARD: First Air Cavalry. They're the ones gonna get us into the River.
KILGORE: ( bellowing ) Lieutenant: Bomb that tree line back about a hundred yards give me some room to breathe. A Lieutenant and radio man nod and rush off.
KILGORE: Bring me some cards.
GUARD: Sir ?
KILGORE: Body cards, you damn fool cards ! The soldier rushes over and hands him two brand new packages of playing cards wrapped in plastic. Two other soldiers get out of the copter and walk over. They are well-tanned and carry no weapons. They seem more casual about the Colonel than anyone else. The Sergeant walks up, leading Willard, the Chief and Lance.
WILLARD: ( formally ) Captain B-L. Willard, sir 4th Recon Group I carry priority papers from Com-Sec Intelligence 11 Corp I believe you understand the nature of my mission.
KILGORE: ( not looking up ) Yeah Na Trang told me to expect you we'll see what we can do. Just stay out of my way till this is done, Captain. He cracks the plastic wrapping sharply takes out the deck of new cards and fans them. The Colonel strides right past Willard with no further acknowledgement. The others follow,
KILGORE: ( to himself ) Six a spades eight a hearts Isn't one worth a Jack in this whole place. The Colonel goes on about this business.
KILGORE: What ? Here. You sure? The soldier points to Lance, who immediately puts down the card he was holding. Kilgore strides over to the young man, who almost instinctively moves closer t What's your name, sailor ?
KILGORE: ( continuing ) What's your name, sailor ?
LANCE: Gunner's Mate, Third Class L. Johnson, sir.
KILGORE: Lance Johnson? The surfer?
LANCE: That's right, sir. Kilgore smiles sticks out his hand.
KILGORE: It's an honor to meet you Lance. I've admired your nose-riding for years I like your cutback, too. I think you have the best cutback there is.
LANCE: Thank you, sir.
KILGORE: You can cut out the sir, Lance I'm Bill kilgore I'm a goofy 41 VIEW ON WILLARD His entire, top priority mission has been put in the This is Mike from San Diego and Johnny from Malibu they're good solid surfers none of us are anywhere near your class, though. Lance blushes, sort of mumbling thanks.
WILLARD: My orders are from Com-Sec Intel B.L. Willard, 4th Recon
KILGORE: Just hold up a second, Captain I'll get to you soon enough We've got things to do here. Willard eats it, for now. Kilgore puts his hand on Lance's shoulder, and continues flipping the cards in- discriminately on the bodies as they talk.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) . we do a lot of surfing around here. Like to finish up operations early and fly down to Vung Tau for the evening glass. Have you ever surfed the point at Vung Tau? I liked the beach breaks around Na Trang a lot good lefts. He passes a twisted gun emplacement with about five bodies sprinkles cards all over them.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) . we keep three boards in my Command Huey at all times. You never can tell when you're gonna run into something good. I got a guy in Cam Rau Bay that can predict a swell two days in advance. We try to work it in. He stops at a particularly wild-looking Viet Cong who has died with his mouth agape staring wild-eyed in horror at the sky. Kilgore pauses.
KILGORE: ( continuing; to himself ) Hell, that's an Ace if I ever saw He puts the card in the gaping mouth.
KILGORE: Where've you been riding, Lance?
LANCE: I haven't surfed since I got here.
KILGORE: That's terrible we'll change that I'd like to see you work I've always liked your cutback; got a hell of a left turn, too.
KILGORE: Why the hell you wanna go up to Nu Mung Ba for?
WILLARD: I got bored in Saigon.
KILGORE: What's the furthest you been Haiphong? Shit, you jump in ?
WILLARD: Haiphong? Shit, you jump in ?
KILGORE: Haiphong? Shit, you jump in ?
WILLARD: No. Walked.
KILGORE: What'd you do for supplies?
WILLARD: ( he shrugs ) Mercenaries agents, traitors they put out caches.
KILGORE: Can you trust them?
WILLARD: No. They put out two or three for every one I needed. When you get to the one you'll use, you just stake it out. If something feels wrong, you just pass it up. On one mission, I had to pass up three and ended up living on rats and chocolate Nu Mung Ba. Last I heard, Walter Kurtz commanded a Green Beret detachment at Nu Mung Ba.
KILGORE: Nu Mung Ba. Last I heard, Walter Kurtz commanded a Green Beret detachment at Nu Mung Ba.
WILLARD: When did you hear?
KILGORE: 'Bout a year ago? Is Kurtz still alive?
WILLARD: Who knows.
KILGORE: Seems to me he got himself fragged. i heard some grunt rolled a grenade in his tent. Maybe a rumor. Helluva man remarkable officer. Walter Kurtz woulda been a General some day. General of the Army. Shit, Head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Did you knew Kurtz?
WILLARD: I met him.
KILGORE: Don't you agree?
WILLARD: He musta changed ! I got to get into the Nung River, here or here.
KILGORE: That village you're pointing at is kinda hairy.
WILLARD: Hairy ?
KILGORE: I mean it's hairy they got some pretty heavy ordnance, boy I've lost a few recon ships in there now and again.
WILLARD: So? I heard you had a good bunch of killers here.
KILGORE: And I don't intend to get some of them chewed up just to get your tub put in the mouth of the goddman Nung River. You say you don't know Kurtz?
WILLARD: I met him.
KILGORE: You talk like him. I don't mind taking casualties, Captain, but I like to keep my ratio ten to one in this unit ten Cong to one.
WILLARD: You'll find enough Cong up there.
KILGORE: What about this point here? He puts his finger on the map.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) What's the name of that goddamn village Vin Drin Dop or Lop; damn gook names all sound the same. He motions to one of his surfers.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) Mike, you know anything about the point at Vin Drip Drop?
MIKE: Boss left.
KILGORE: What do you mean?
MIKE: It's really long left slide, breaks on the short side of the point catches a south swell.
LANCE: Willard looks at Lance then at Kilgore.
KILGORE: Why the hell didn't you tell me about that place a good left. There aren't any good left slides in this whole, shitty country. It's all goddamn beach break.
MIKE: It's hairy ,though. That's where we lost McDonnel they shot the hell out of us. It's Charlie's point.
KILGORE: How big it is?
MIKE: Six to eight feet. Kilgore gazes out across the parked helicopters.
KILGORE: ( to himself ) A six-foot left. Willard nudges Lance who gets the idea.
LANCE: Boss. What's the wind like.
MIKE: Light off shore really hollow.
WILLARD: We could go in tomorrow at dawn there's always off-shore wind in the morning.
CHIEF: The draft of that river might be too shallow on the point.
KILGORE: Hell, we'll pick your boat up and lay it down like a baby, right where you want it. This is the Cav boy airmobile. I can take that point and hold it as long as I like and you can get anywhere you want up that river that suits you, Captain. Hell, a six foot left. You take a gunship back to division Mike, take Lance with you let him pick out a board, and bring me my Yater Spoon the eight six.
TOM: I don't know, sir it's it's
KILGORE: ( hard ) What is it?
TOM: Well, I mean it's hairy in there it's Charlie's point. Kilgore turns and looks to Willard, exasperated.
WILLARD: Charlie don't surf.
KILGORE: How do you feel, boy?
GUNNER: Like a mean motherfucker, sir. He turns to his R.T. man.
KILGORE: Let's go.
OTHERS: Willard looks ahead Kilgore sits near the door. Below they see the jungle whisk by and they are suddenly over the ocean, low and fast.
KILGORE: ( to Willard ) We'll come in low out of the rising sun We'll put on the music about a mile out.
WILLARD: Yeah. Classical stuff scares the hell out of the slopes the boys love it.
KILGORE: Yeah. Classical stuff scares the hell out of the slopes the boys love it.
PILOT: Big Duke six to Eagle Thrust turn on coordinates 1-0 niner, assume attack formation. The helicopter banks into a tight turn and bears toward the coast.
PILOT: 700 600 yards 500 Commence firing. The whole copter shakes.
PILOT: 700 yards 600 500 commence firing. The whole copter shakes.
OTHERS: Kilgore has R.T. equipment he leans out near the door gunner.
KILGORE: Big Duke Six to Hell's Angels Four bring it in on along tree line and huts.
KILGORE: Haven't got time, Hell's Angels lay it right up the tree line.
KILGORE: Fucking savages.
WILLARD: The enemy. Who else?
KILGORE: The enemy. Who else?
KILGORE: Big Duke Six to Baker Delta Four hold we're right over you. He turns to door gunner.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) Right along the doors, boy. The gunner FIRES leaning out
KILGORE: ( continuing ) Fine. fine. little higher. Through the roof; yeah, that's He leans back in.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) Didn't anybody bring me any bombs, grenades, claymores or You didn't tell me to, sir.
LIEUTENANT: You didn't tell me to, sir.
KILGORE: ( grumbling ) You shoulda known. Suddenly, BULLETS SMASH through the copter Plexiglass SHATTERS; the copter vibrates and turns sharply. Kilgore is thrown down where he hangs on.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) Sonuvabitch anybody hurt?
WILLARD: Automatic weapons flashes along those trees probably eleven millimeter guns and AK-47's.
KILGORE: The trees, eh. He grabs the R.T.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) Eagle Thrust Four Big Duke Six. Join me in sparaying some Affirmative, Big Duke Six We're even got some rockets left.
KILGORE: Take her in low, Lieutenant.
KILGORE: Hold it, boy. He puts his arms across the sights the gunner swings back inside.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) Take her up to 300 feet, They rise above the paddy the man below runs for all he's worth. Kilgore motions to the door gunner who steps aside. Kilgore buckles himself into the gunner's ( continuing ) A hand passes him a M-16.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) A hand passes him a M-16.
KILGORE: ( continuing; hard ) My rifle, soldier. There is some fumbling and then a hand passes him a 300 Weatherby Magnum with a zebra wood stock mother of pearl inlays and a variable power scope. Kilgore takes it and opens the bolt.
WILLARD: Anyone got a card? Somebody hands Willard the deck. He takes a card and flips it out of the copter, never lifting his gaze from 76 FULL SHOT - BATTLEFIELD - THE CAV, V.C. Americans run through the hooches FIRING and throwing GRENADES. Helicopters swoop overhead JETS ROAR by Uniformed N.V.A. regulars burst from a tunnel en- trance and charge the Americans. The SHOOTING is at point blank range automatic, as the V.C. are cut 77 INT. COMMAND COPTER - KILGORE, WILLARD, LANCE, ETC. Kilgore leans out carefully, looking over the battle- field. He has the R.T. He leans back, deliberately avoiding Willard to speak to Lance.
KILGORE: The L.Z.'s cooling off fast we'll move in another company an' then we'll own it. Charlie's point. He looks out toward the ocean.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) Good swell.
LANCE: What, sir?
KILGORE: I said it's a good swell hell of a good swell 'bout six feet. Let's get a look at it. Lance looks at Willard and then agrees.
SOLDIER: Incoming ! They all dive, except Kilgore. He is watching a big set the SHELL EXPLODES in the water about a hundred yards away, sending up a huge geyser of spray. Kilgore is Look at that. They look.
KILGORE: Look at that. They look.
LANCE: This L.Z. is still pretty hot, sir, maybe we oughta stand somewhere else. Kilgore pays him no mention.
WILLARD: I'm waiting for the fucking boat, It'll get here, soldier. He turns to Mike and Johnny who have their faces in the Wh what?
KILGORE: ( without looking ) It'll get here, soldier. He turns to Mike and Johnny who have their faces in the ( continuing ) Wh what?
KILGORE: ( continuing ) Wh what?
MIKE: Wh what?
KILGORE: Change get out there I want'a see if it's ridable It's still pretty hairy, sir.
MIKE: It's still pretty hairy, sir.
KILGORE: ( bellowing ) You want'a surf, soldier? He nods yes meakly.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) That's good, boy, because it's either surf or fight. They turn and hurry off Kilgore grabs an M-1 from one of the guards. They all think he's going to shoot the surfers or someone. They move back uneasy.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) I'm gonna cover for 'em that's He cocks thye weapon. Lance looks around uneasily. The Colonel walks over.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) You think that section on the point is ridable, Lance?
LANCE: I think we ought to wait for the tide to come in. A SHELL SCREAMS OVER they all hit the dirt except for Kilgore. It EXPLODES throwing sand through the air. Kilgore leans down yelling over the NOISE.
KILGORE: Doesn't happen for six hours. Lance looks up at him terrified, holding onto his helmet.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) The tide doesn't come in for six hours.
KILGORE: They far enough?
LANCE: Sure fine Kilgore turns and takes a giant electric megaphone from a waiting lackey.
KILGORE: ( through megaphone ) That's far enough pick one up and come on in
LANCE: ( to himself ) Maybe he'll get tubed.
WILLARD: Maybe he'll get inside the tube where where they can't see him. A SERIES of SHELLS ROAR in.
LANCE: Maybe he'll get inside the tube where where they can't see him. A SERIES of SHELLS ROAR in.
WILLARD: Incoming ! Lance ducks puts his hands over his head. The SHELLS SCREAM over Kilgore and out towards the point. Kilgore looks through his glasses two EXPLOSIONS in the water are HEARD.
KILGORE: Son of a bitch. Lance looks up and out toward the point in horror.
LANCE: ( to himself ) The tragedy of this war is a dead surfer. Willard looks over, beginning to think Lance is crazy, What's that?
WILLARD: What's that?
LANCE: Just something I read in the Free Press.
KILGORE: They just missed a good set the chicken shits ! Lance looks up.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) I´m not afraid to surf this place. I'll surf this place.
KILGORE: Bring that R.T., soldier. He grabs it.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) Big Duke Six to Hell's Angels Goddamit, I want that treeline bombed yeah napalm gimme some napalm son of a bitch yeah, I'll take H.Z. or C.B.U.'s if you got any of them just bomb 'em into the Stone Age, boy. He throws the R.T. back to a soldier another SALVO WHISTLES over everyone drops.
KILGORE: ( continuing; to himself ) Son of a bitch. As the SHELLS EXPLODES on the beach behind him, KIlgore raises his M-16 and EMPTIES it full automatic in the general direction of the trees. He mumbles a few un- intelligible swear words and jams a new clip into his rifle turning to Lance
KILGORE: ( continuing ) We'll have this place cleaned up and ready for us in a jiffy, boy. Don't you worry. He FIRES another clip as the JETS SCREAM overhead.
CHIEF: Forget that extra drum it's too damn hot.
CLEAN: Clear on starboard Where's Lance an' the Captain?
CHIEF: I saw that Colonel's Huey on the Two HELICOPTERS SCREAM over FIRING ROCKETS.
CHIEF: ( continuing ) Let's just get outta here.
OTHERS: Kilgore watches the waves with his field glasses smoke drifts over. Lance crouches below. Willard is up looking off in another direction. SHELLS SCREAM over, but even their noise is drowned out by the fierce SHRIEK of the PHANTOMS and the deafening BLAST of HIGH EXPLOSIVES. Willard stares at the tree line where it comes down to the river. The JETS are making a hell of the tree line; a hell of fire and bust- ling steam thet nothing could live in. Willard's glance goes further downriver through the black smoke and there merging in the river small and vulnerable, is his boat.
WILLARD: ( to Lance ) Look. There it is; the boat. Lance looks over a tremendous relief on his face. But still there remains the threat of Kilgore, standing stark against the sky. Willard silently motions Lance toward the boat.
LANCE: ( whispers ) He'll kill us.
WILLARD: He can't kill us. We're on his side. Kilgore FIRES another clip at the tree line, and then strides back without looking at them.
KILGORE: ( almost to himself ) You smell that. ( louder ) You smell that?
LANCE: Napalm, boy nothing else in the world smells like that They reflect the glow from the burning trees.
KILGORE: Napalm, boy nothing else in the world smells like that They reflect the glow from the burning trees.
KILGORE: ( continuing; nostalgically ) I love the smell of napalm in the morning. One time we had a hill bombed for 12 hours. I walked up it when it was all over; we didn't find one of 'em . not one stinking gook body. They slipped out in the night but the smell that gasoline smell the whole hill it smelled like . ( pause ) He looks off nostalgically.
WILLARD: You know, some day this war's gonna end..
KILGORE: ( sadly ) Yes, I know. Suddenly he senses something he stops lifts his hand then frantically licks his fingers and puts them up in the air.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) The wind
LANCE: Sure enough there is a rushing breeze that increases.
KILGORE: ( rising maniacally ) Feel it it's the wind it's blowing on shore It's on shore ! He leans down and practically grabs Lance.
KILGORE: ( continuing; screaming ) It's gonna blow this place out. It's gonna ruin it .
WILLARD: The kid can't ride sloppy waves. They turn and stare out to sea.
WILLARD: You don't expect this kid to ride that crap, do you? He's a goddamn artist, he needs something to work with. Slapping Lance on the shoulder.
LANCE: Yeah, I'm an artist, goddamit !
KILGORE: ( apologetically ) Yeah yeah, I can understand how you feel. He turns toward the trees.
KILGORE: ( continuing ) It's the napalm it's causing the wind ruining my perfect He staggers off toward the trees followed by his guards and other lackeys.
KILGORE: ( continuing; mumbling ) The napalm ruin napalm my perfect left my perfect left point break napalm Lance motions with his eyes to Willard.
WILLARD: Are you finished surfing?
LANCE: Yeah. thanks.
WILLARD: Want to say goodbye to the Then let's get the hell out of They break and run like hell toward the boat in the distance. OUR VIEW TRACKS with them. They are cheered by the crew suddenly, Willard sees some- thing and stops. Lance continuing. In a pile of equipment that the Hueys have left are two surfboards Willard looks at them.
LANCE: Then let's get the hell out of They break and run like hell toward the boat in the distance. OUR VIEW TRACKS with them. They are cheered by the crew suddenly, Willard sees some- thing and stops. Lance continuing. In a pile of equipment that the Hueys have left are two surfboards Willard looks at them.
WILLARD: Then let's get the hell out of They break and run like hell toward the boat in the distance. OUR VIEW TRACKS with them. They are cheered by the crew suddenly, Willard sees some- thing and stops. Lance continuing. In a pile of equipment that the Hueys have left are two surfboards Willard looks at them.
LANCE: No no, Captain.
WILLARD: Which one's the Colonel's?
LANCE: The Yater the clear one with the thin stringer. Willard glances over to it with determination. There is still MORTAR FIRE coming in between him and the board. Suddenly, Willard makes a run for it.
WILLARD: ( calm ) This one , Lance?
LANCE: Yeah, Jesus Christ ! Once again, Willard takes off fast as hell with the board under his arm. Lance follows toward the boat, through the water. Willard hands the board up to Mr. Clean, and they both scamper abroad, exhausted and What'd you that for?
CLEAN: What'd you that for?
WILLARD: When I was a kid I, never had a Yater spoon. Mr. Clean stuffs the board in the stern 50 Cal. mount. The boat turns ENGINES RUNNING HARD and ROARS OFF toward the deeper water of the river the board clearly visible on the stern.
LANCE: ( yelling ) Maybe we better stay in under the trees till dark we got his Yater.
WILLARD: He didn't look like he'd take that sitting down. They all look up into the sky expecting the worst.
WILLARD: ( continuing ) Let's put some distance between us and Charlie. The Chief nods.
CHIEF: Lance -
LANCE: Why don't you roll us a big joint? I think the Captain'd like that. They all look at Willard uneasily. After a suspensful pause, Willard smiles:
CHIEF: Why don't you roll us a big joint? I think the Captain'd like that. They all look at Willard uneasily. After a suspensful pause, Willard smiles:
WILLARD: Take one a mine He fishes into his breast pocket pulls out a huge cigar-sized joint. They all smile Willard lights 102 FULL SHOT - THE P.B.R. It zig-zags away from us down the river at high speed.
LANCE: You hear it again?
WILLARD: No I don't think so. But it'll be back. They were circling. It'll be back.
LANCE: You think he'd of shot us?
WILLARD: Any time us Americans. Lance looks over at Willard.
LANCE: Any time us Americans. Lance looks over at Willard.
WILLARD: I don't think he´d of shot us on the beach but he'd of shot us if he saw me taking the board
LANCE: A Yater spoon is hard to get especially here.
WILLARD: He's a man who knows what he wants he does know what he wants.
CHEF: Can I go get those mangos now?
CHIEF: I'll go with you in a while judt hold tight awhile
LANCE: Captain that was all true about the rats and chocolate and stuff?
WILLARD: And you could just tell when the supplies were booby trapped?
LANCE: And you could just tell when the supplies were booby trapped?
WILLARD: It's a feeling you get in the jungle. When you get good, you can find a track and tell not only how many they are, but their morale, how far they're going, whether they're near their camp, the weapons they're How can you tell their weapons.. an' how far they're going? Willard smiles.
CLEAN: How can you tell their weapons.. an' how far they're going? Willard smiles.
WILLARD: Mostly from the imprints when they put them down to rest. their morale from the way they drag their feet, or the joints that may be lying around. If they're near a base camp, they wouldn't be conserving food; they'll be throwing it away half-eaten. If the branches aren't broken, their weapons are slung. But all this is just technique.. There's a feeling you get after a while, that's what's important. I was going through a village once. I was looking for a certain party. I took off my boots, and walked into each hut. It was midnight. I went into three like that and suddenly I realized I´d gone into each hut the same way standing up so the next one I went in on my belly. An RPD burst took out the door a bit above my head. Things like that. A pause, and then suddenly his attention is diverted They all are silent It is pitch dark we HEAR the distant SOUND of ROTOR-BLADES and indistinguishable language on a loudspeaker The talk stops the ROTORS grow LOUDER until almost overhead.
CLEAN: Jesus that guy's too damn I wonder if that was the same He's probably got 'em all over the river with that recording. We better move now while it's Chef steps forward with a plastic basket.
CHIEF: I wonder if that was the same He's probably got 'em all over the river with that recording. We better move now while it's Chef steps forward with a plastic basket.
WILLARD: He's probably got 'em all over the river with that recording. We better move now while it's Chef steps forward with a plastic basket.
CHIEF: Yeah, Chef go ahead take Lance with you
WILLARD: I'll go with him They all look at him.
WILLARD: ( continuing ) I wanta get my feet on solid land once in awhile He grabs an M-16 and follows Chef over the side.
WILLARD: Yes, sir
CHEF: Yes, sir
WILLARD: Why they call you that?
CHEF: Call me what, sir?
WILLARD: Chef is that 'cause you like mangoes an' stuff?
CHEF: No, sir I'm a real chef, sir I'm a sauciere
WILLARD: A sauciere
CHEF: That's right, sir I come from New Orleans I was raised to be a sauciere.. a great sauciere. We specialize in sauces; my whole family. It's what we do. I was supposed to go to Paris and study at the Escoffier School; I was saving the money. They called me for my physical so I figured the Navy had better food.
WILLARD: What are you doing out here?
CHEF: Cook school that did it.
WILLARD: They lined us all up in front of a hundred yards of prime rib magnificent meat, beautifully marbled.. Then they started throwing it in these big cauldrons, all of it boiling. I looked in, an' it was turning gray. I couldn't stand it. I went into radio school. They move into a slight clearing.
CHEF: They lined us all up in front of a hundred yards of prime rib magnificent meat, beautifully marbled.. Then they started throwing it in these big cauldrons, all of it boiling. I looked in, an' it was turning gray. I couldn't stand it. I went into radio school. They move into a slight clearing.
WILLARD: ( whispering ) Chef crouches close redies his M-16. Willard ges- tures that he heard something; he points.
WILLARD: ( silent ) He points motions Chef to move away they cover the spot. A few yards from them they hear something move. It is obviously no small jungle creature. They walk toward a patch of black elephant grass; their guns at the ready. They look at each other. Willard is cold, methodical, doing something he knows well. There is a noise again some of the growth rustles. He and Chef move a distance apart, and join in stalking the probable V.C. Willard directs the Chef with hand gestures, and bird and cricket sounds. They move stealthily, closing the apex of their triangle on the hunted. The two men drop low into the elephant grass, and remain motionless. Then Willard makes the cricket noise, and they move closer. Willard's left hand edges out along the M-16's far end, so that he only has to point the finger of that hand and he will hit what he wants. He makes another command and they rush the trapped enemy.
CHEF: It's a motherfucking tiger He turns and bolts through the jungle, as scared as a man can be.
CHEF: ( continuing; screaming ) Goddamn Jesus Christ tiger motherfucking tiger ohhhhhhhhh Willard jams another clip in his gun and backs out of the clearing, covering the bushes and runs, scared out of his head as well.
CHEF: ( hysterical ) Ohhhh tiger ! Oh goddamn ! It's a tiger ! Jesus Christ ! Goddamn, a tiger ! Ohhhhhhhh. The Chief tries to grab him; takes his gun away, but is unable to take a hold of the Chef, as he slithers around the boat, trying to find safety. willard follows from the jungle The Chef is moaning and stares off into the night.
LANCE: What's this tiger shit?
WILLARD: No shit. I think I shot the hell out of him.
LANCE: You think?
WILLARD: I wasn´t looking.. I was running.
CLEAN: Was a big tiger no shit?
WILLARD: Who stopped to measure him let's get the hell out of here.
CHEF: A motherfucking tiger I could've been killed. The ENGINE ROARS to life the P.B.R. pulls away with great You forgot the mangoes, didn't Mangoes? There as a fucking tiger in the woods I could've been eaten alive. I'm never going into that jungle again. I gotta remember never get out of the boat; never get outta the boat. They move off; swallowed by the darkness. The JUNGLE NOISES remain, as OUR VIEW BEGINS a MOVE INTO the jungle.
CHIEF: You forgot the mangoes, didn't Mangoes? There as a fucking tiger in the woods I could've been eaten alive. I'm never going into that jungle again. I gotta remember never get out of the boat; never get outta the boat. They move off; swallowed by the darkness. The JUNGLE NOISES remain, as OUR VIEW BEGINS a MOVE INTO the jungle.
CHEF: Mangoes? There as a fucking tiger in the woods I could've been eaten alive. I'm never going into that jungle again. I gotta remember never get out of the boat; never get outta the boat. They move off; swallowed by the darkness. The JUNGLE NOISES remain, as OUR VIEW BEGINS a MOVE INTO the jungle.
RADIO: must remember that we owe our thanks for these to the wonderful services of the U.S.O. here's another oldie this one dedicated.
RADIO: . to the fire team at An Khe from their groovy C.O. Fred the 111 VIEW ON THE GROUP The Rolling Stones and "Satisfaction."
RADIO: The Rolling Stones and "Satisfaction."
CHEF: Outa sight. The SONG BLARES ON they all dig it. PAN TO Willard, sitting alone in the rear, reading from his file on Kurtz. We REVEAL Lance in the b.g., water- skiing behind the P.B.R., slaloming back and forth on his single ski to the MUSIC jumping the wake occasion- 112 NEW VIEW - ON THE P.B.R. Lance waterskiing to "Satisfaction."
WILLARD: Soldier where'´s your C.O.?
SOLDIER: Stepped on a booby trap, sir got blown all to hell
WILLARD: Well , who's in command here?
SOLDIER: I don't know don't have any idea I'm just the night man He turns and walks off babbling incoherently
WILLARD: What about you, soldier? The soldier he was talking to turns around smiling idiotically and making animal noises. He stumbles off after his friend.
AGENT: You came in on that boat, didn't Where are you headed?
WILLARD: Where are you headed?
AGENT: Where are you headed?
WILLARD: What's it matter? Get to the Look you know the girls Thta's Terri she was playmate Yeah, I caught your show at Hau They all look over.
AGENT: Look you know the girls Thta's Terri she was playmate Yeah, I caught your show at Hau They all look over.
WILLARD: Yeah, I caught your show at Hau They all look over.
AGENT: Oh I see Well, girls, this is Captain eh
WILLARD: Captain Willard go ahead.
AGENT: Look we got in a little trouble they rudely took our helicopter for MedEvac work on this uh Operation Brute Force They just brought it back this morning.
WILLARD: Well I mean like they also took our fuel We've been here two Look the girls could get killed we're not supposed to be this close combat, I mean real combat.
AGENT: Well I mean like they also took our fuel We've been here two Look the girls could get killed we're not supposed to be this close combat, I mean real combat.
WILLARD: Look the girls could get killed we're not supposed to be this close combat, I mean real combat.
AGENT: Look the girls could get killed we're not supposed to be this close combat, I mean real combat.
WILLARD: We could use some fuel just a half drum just enough to get us out a here.
AGENT: We could use some fuel just a half drum just enough to get us out a here.
WILLARD: We need all our fuel. He turns and starts to leave.
AGENT: But, Captain, think what these girls have done for the boys think of how they've risked Willard is almost out of the tent.
TERRI: He turns around.
TERRI: ( continuing ) It's really rough here Captain we're just not built for it The Pilot laughs.
PILOT: That's rich
TERRI: Do us a favor I'd do one for you if I could Willard just stares at her even though she's in jeans and field jacket she is something to see The Agent takes Willard aside Terri goes back to the others.
AGENT: Look you know who that is, Captain you know what she's saying you'll never see stuff that good outside of a magazine for the rest of your life.
WILLARD: I'm not that fond of blondes maybe I like brunettes
AGENT: Take your pick they all like you I can tell
WILLARD: I like all of them
AGENT: Good like I said, take your I said I like all of them.
WILLARD: I said I like all of them.
AGENT: Now just a second I'm doing you a favor, buddy what're you trying to pull? Willard turns to leave again.
WILLARD: We need all our fuel anyway.
AGENT: Wait wait don't get up tight what I meant was we'd need a whole drum for that
WILLARD: Sit down we'll talk about it. Willard sits down on a metal chair motions the Agent to do likewise.
AGENT: What's there to talk about this whole thing disgusts me.
WILLARD: My men
AGENT: What !
WILLARD: That's what there is to talk about my man I take a good care of my men The girls are trying to pretend they're not listening the helicopter Pilot is cackling to himself.
AGENT: You're out of your skull
WILLARD: We have a lot of pride in our How far do you think you can push what kind of people do you think
AGENT: How far do you think you can push what kind of people do you think
WILLARD: Esprit de corps
AGENT: No absolutely not
WILLARD: One for all all for one
AGENT: You can keep your fucking fuel Willard gets up.
WILLARD: You make some of your closest friends in the army war has a way of bringing men together.
AGENT: Get out
WILLARD: Men of all races nationalities He gets up and starts out.
AGENT: Two drums Willard turns around slowly.
AGENT: ( continuing ) Two whole drums
WILLARD: We can use some fifty caliber and a 16 too
AGENT: I don't know what you're talking about Get fucked
WILLARD: I will I assure you that You got a fifty on that H-34 leave the ammo in boxes I'll get my men to bring the first drum with 'em He turns to go under the tent flap.
WILLARD: ( continuing ) Have the girls freshen up a bit comb their hair put on something you know what I mean He leaves.
CLEAN: You keep this thing in this condition an' it's gonna jam, Lance mark my words.
LANCE: Why don't you go pet the water buffaloes get off my back. Behins them on the beach stand several water buffaloes eating mud or whatever they do. They are painted jungle brown and green camouflage with grey bottoms on their sides the words have been stenciled in black:
CHIEF: Careful, Captain, they've been known to charge.
WILLARD: All right I got a little surprise for you They all look up.
WILLARD: ( continuing ) I've arranged with those people we saw at Hau Fat to give us some 50 caliber in trade for a couple a drums of fuel
CHEF: No shit.
WILLARD: Chef since you're such a fan of Miss December's I think you should be detailed with Lance and Clean to take the first drum up I don't believe you
CHEF: I don't believe you
CHIEF: What're you trying to say, Captain
WILLARD: You'll see soon enough get going, No shit hot damn
CHIEF: No shit hot damn
CHEF: I've got every one of your pictures I've got the centerfold the Playmate's review the Playmate of the Year run-off everything, even the calender
LYNDA: Well, get undressed and let's get it over with
CHEF: I can't believe it I'd a never even got to see you if it wasn't for this war She lies down on the cot in only her panties.
CHEF: ( continuing ) You wouldn't mind uh kinda draping that jacket over you sort of the way you were in the calender, would you?
LYNDA: Come on cut this crap I gotta get back to Saigon
CHEF: Just let me look awhile I just don't believe
LANCE: Well uh thanks see you around.
CATHY: He leaves she pulls herself up and starts combing her hair Mr. Clean walks in.
CATHY: ( continuing ) Who are you?
CLEAN: I'm next She shrugs.
WILLARD: Ma'am I'd like to thank you for what you an' all your friends have done for us I want you to know that me an' the men appreciate you coming all this way riskin' your lives living uncomfortably an' doing all you can to entertain us. I want you to know personally, Miss, that for the past few minutes you have made me feel at home. She picks up a shoe to throw at him. he turns, exits f.g.
WILLARD: ( continuing ) Just wanted to say that, ma'am. The SHOE CLANGS off his helmet.
NIGHT: The boat edges in toward the wrecked bridge in the distance. Along the banks are sandbagged fortificvations with U.S. soldiers in them. There is a bright fire burning uncontrolled in the distance; the sparks and white light from welding on the bridge momentarily lights up the
SOLDIER: I gotta get out a here I´ll pay I got money.
CHIEF: Get away from this boat.
WILLARD: Who's your C.O., soldier? The Soldier ducks back and runs away.
SOLDIER: Fuck you, you'll get what's coming to you. Other men approach the boat. A young LIEUTENANT steps Captain Willard?
LIEUTENANT: Captain Willard?
WILLARD: That's me.
LIEUTENANT: Captain Willard we got these from Nha Thrang two days ago they expected you here then He hands up a plastic bag, maximum security markings, Willard takes it.
LIEUTENANT: ( continuing ) You don't know how happy that makes me, sir.
WILLARD: Now I can get out a here if I can find a way out.
LIEUTENANT: Now I can get out a here if I can find a way out.
WILLARD: We'll be needing some supplies and fuel do you know anybody who can give me a hand?
LIEUTENANT: I'd just clear out as soon as I could if I were you, sir. They're gonna start working on the bridge with torches again. Charlie will start throwing it in hard
WILLARD: What is this bridge?
LIEUTENANT: It's of strategic importance for keeping the highway into Bat Shan open the generals don't like to admit that Bat Shan is surrounded. He points to the men getting ready to work.
LIEUTENANT: ( continuing ) Every night we build it and by 0800 they've blown it up it and a lot of good men But the generals like to say the road is open ha ! Nobody uses that road except Charlie. He turns and splashes off into the darkness.
LIEUTENANT: ( continuing ) This is the cesspool of hell.
CHIEF: ( yelling ) All right Lance, go with the Captain an' see what you can Willard climbs out with Lance.
CHIEF: ( continuing; to Willard ) Better make it fast, sir we don't really need much anyway. Willard nods and they scurry off the bank under the 129 MED. SHOT - WILLARD, LANCE They dash up the embankment and along the barbed wire on the edge of the road. SHELLS SCREAM overhead, they don't know where to run.
VOICE: Straight ahead, son of a bitch. They dive towards the voice.
SOLDIER: You came right to it, son of a bitch
WILLARD: Son of a bitch, sir. The Soldier doesn't respond.
WILLARD: ( continuing ) Where's your chief supply officer?
SOLDIER: Beverly Hills
WILLARD: Straight up the road a concrete bunker Beverly Hills where else you think he'd be?
SOLDIER: Straight up the road a concrete bunker Beverly Hills where else you think he'd be?
WILLARD: There is an apparent lull and they dash out along the road. Suddenly to their right an M-60 STARTS OPENING UP from a sandbagged emplacement.
VOICE: Watch your feet, asshole Willard looks down.
VOICE: ( continuing ) You stepped on my face.
LANCE: We thought you were dead.
VOICE: The whole world loves a smart ass. They move ahead more carefully. The Gunner BLASTS away into the night, there is a pile of brass cases about three feet high next to him. Finally he stops swearing to What're you shooting at, soldier?
WILLARD: What're you shooting at, soldier?
GUNNER: He turns and sees it's an officer.
GUNNER: ( continuing ) I´m sorry, sir.
WILLARD: It's all right, sergeant what's out there?
GUNNER: They were tryin' to cut through the wire I got 'em all I think.
OTHER SOLDIER: Oh yeah listen. There is a low moaning SCREAM from out in the wire it stops for aminute then continues hideously.
GUNNER: He's trying to call his friends send up a flare. The Spotter does, it arcs up, then bathes them in eerie light. The Gunner FIRES a long BURST.
SPOTTER: Those are all dead, stupid, he's obviously underneath 'em They think about this as the flare goes out. The SCREAMING gets more intense.
GUNNER: Wake up the Roach. The Spotter moves down to where a tall lanky SOLDIER is leaned up against the trench. He kicks him hard several times. Roach wakes and just looks up. On his helmet are the words: "GOD BLESS DOW."
ROACH: Yeah, man.
SPOTTER: Slope in the wire hear him. He listens, he does, he nods.
SPOTTER: ( continuing ) Bust him. Roach gets up somewhat annoyed but very cool. He saunters up the machine gun dragging his M-79 which has paisley designs all over it.
GUNNER: Hear him?
ROACH: Sure , yeah.
GUNNER: You need a flare
ROACH: No, it´s cool. He opens the breech of his shotgun-like weapon and plunks the big slug into it. He snaps it closed then rests it across his forearm over the trench he listens to the SCREAM, calculating.
ROACH: ( continuing ) He's close real close. He adjusts his sights so that the gun is aimed high into the air. He listens again then FIRES. The GRENADE WHISTLES off into the night. There is a sharp EXPLOSION that cuts off the scream. Then the THUD of bodies or pieces of bodies coming down around them.
ROACH: ( continuing ) Muhhh Fuhhh .
CHEF: Geez, I wish they'd hurry. A SOLDIER comes up on his way with some others to start building the bridge.
SOLDIER: Hey, buddy, that boat still runs, Yeah, it still runs.
CLEAN: Yeah, it still runs.
SOLDIER: Do me a favor buddy, please.
CLEAN: What is it? He takes out a handful of crumpled envelopes.
SOLDIER: Send these out when you get back to the world. He puts them in Clean's hand.
SOLDIER: ( continuing ) It's to everyone I really knew the first girl I screwed my brother best friend I wanted to tell 'em how much I enjoyed knowing 'em it's been a great twenty years. I gotta let 'em What're you askin' me for put 'em in the first helicopter comes in tomorrow.
CLEAN: What're you askin' me for put 'em in the first helicopter comes in tomorrow.
SOLDIER: Nobody comes in here. He points up at the mountain ridges.
SOLDIER: ( continuing ) The N.V.A. 312th over there the 307th on that hill we counted fourteen different guns in one minute they got rockets mortars, snipers in those trees, there's a million of those shitty little bastards out there we're all gonna die. He grabs Clean and looks at him with a maniacal urgency.
SOLDIER: ( continuing ) I'm gonna be dead. Clean takes the letters.
SOLDIER: ( continuing ) You got a chance in that boat by morning you could be five miles down the river.
CLEAN: We ain't goin' down the river. The Soldier looks at him as if he is joking.
CLEAN: ( continuing ) What's up river from here anyhow The Soldier doesn't answer, just stares dumbfounded.
SOLDIER: No, it'd be spooky without the war give 'em back. He takes the letters and leaves, somewhat disappointed and disgusted. Willard and Lance come back down the beach carrying some belts of ammunition and a couple of extra Wow, you must a found the C.O., eh?
CLEAN: No, it'd be spooky without the war give 'em back. He takes the letters and leaves, somewhat disappointed and disgusted. Willard and Lance come back down the beach carrying some belts of ammunition and a couple of extra Wow, you must a found the C.O., eh?
SOLDIER: No, it'd be spooky without the war give 'em back. He takes the letters and leaves, somewhat disappointed and disgusted. Willard and Lance come back down the beach carrying some belts of ammunition and a couple of extra Wow, you must a found the C.O., eh?
CHIEF: Wow, you must a found the C.O., eh?
WILLARD: We found some bodies let's get out a here.
CHIEF: ( to Willard ) I can't see a fucking thing. There is a loud CRACKING SOUND, as one of the pieces of tree- trunk whacks the hull, and bounces off. Willard climbs forward, and looks down.
CHIEF: ( continuing ) We hit a big enough one this hull will shatter like a Corvette. Fucking plastic boat. Willard practically hangs off forward with a long pole, warding off the big debris moving toward the P.B.R. Clean joins him, helping.
WILLARD: ( shouting to Chief ) What about ducking into one of those tributaries till this river slows down?
CHIEF: Who knows what's up there?
WILLARD: Can't be any worse than this. What do you think?
CHIEF: I think this river wants to take us home fast. I'm practically goin' in reverse. Willard points his pole in the direction of the mouth of a tributary.
WILLARD: Well, get in there.
CHIEF: This whole area is lousy with V.C. We don't stand a chance. Lemme turn around and we'll be in Hau Fat in six minutes. There is a really loud WHACK against the hull. willard really mad, throws the pole at the Chief, who ducks.
WILLARD: Get in there !
CHIEF: This is my crew and my fucking boat, and I'm the responsible Get in there now or I'll bury you in this river. It's clear that Willard will kill the Chief if he doesn't do as he says.
WILLARD: Get in there now or I'll bury you in this river. It's clear that Willard will kill the Chief if he doesn't do as he says.
CHIEF: ( finally relents, You're fucking crazy. You're going to get us all killed. The P.B.R. navigates through the rush and into the mouth of the tributary.
LANCE: It breaks through in about twenty feet.
WILLARD: What do you see?
CHEF: I don't know. He looks out the jungle at this point is very dark and high totally impenetrable.
WILLARD: Keep cutting. They work feverishly, knowing something is wrong.
CHEF: I know it sounds stupid, but I feel like the goddamn jungle's watching us.
WILLARD: Probably is.
CHEF: Whatdoya think it thinks.
WILLARD: That we're dumber than we look. Chef stops again, looks hard, trying to penetrate the darkness and from the very depth of it the darkness of it, comes a stream of tracers, lazily arching out at them. It whips between them the SOUND FOLLOWING much later. Other BULLETS SMASH through and ricochet off the deck fittings. GLASS SHATTERS, and a huge hunk of paint is removed from the armor shield by a 20 mm cannon.
CHIEF: Lance 'bout twenty meters Lance leaps down to his position. Willard, Clean and Chef cut feverishly, as the trapped boat struggles to get free.
CHEF: There in the trees ! Everything is confusion yelling GUNFIRE the THUD of heavy BULLETS ripping inti the P.B.R.'s fibreglass hull.
CHIEF: ( back at the helm ) Elevate Lance, in the tree. No, I saw another.
CHEF: Thirty meters up, Lance; I saw the fucking flash. Lance grits his teeth, FIRING
CLEAN: I'm ripping 'em, man, son-of-a- bitch, it's jammed, oh God, it's jammed. Clean is riddled by MACHINE GUN FIRE. Chief runs to Mr. Clean it is obvious that he is dead. He looks angrily to Willard. Willard and Chef are practically through. Willard leaps up, as Chef finishes the last strokes. He moves toward the cockpit.
WILLARD: Throw me that ordnance. Chef throws him an M-79 and several shells Willard opens it, jams a huge projectile and pulls himself over the edge of the cockpit.
WILLARD: ( continuing ) Give me some kind a field a fire BULLETS rip by.
CHEF: ( exhausted ) We're through. He climbs aboard and collapses.
CHEF: ( continuing ) Oh, God
LANCE: ( FIRING ) I ain't finished ! I ain't finished !
WILLARD: Bring that bow ordnance into those trees. He jams his gun up as he sees a flash and FIRES there is a low POP and a WHISTLE as the GRENADE arches into the 145 POV. - BEHIND THEM He FIRES another burst as the GRENADE EXPLODES brightly. There is another POP and WHISTLE , another BLAST. A large tree falls, just as the craft speeds up through the thin- ning growth. We HEAR strange SCREAMING from the trees and jungle, hideous MOANS and terror-filled CRIES.
CHEF: There's some bad holes, man, and the cracks water's coming through the cracks. Food's shot to hell.
WILLARD: How much is left?
CHEF: Less than half sure is a mess down there. Chief has been silent by the body of Clean in a plastic And the grass?
WILLARD: And the grass?
CHEF: Still got a lot of that stuff from Nha Trang. But we're running low on the other. Chief pushes Clean's body into the river.
WILLARD: They all look over.
WILLARD: ( continuing ) That's a light down there
CHEF: Yeah, it is.
CHIEF: What the hell is it?
WILLARD: In the middle of the jungle a goddamn light.
WILLARD: Watch it ! They duck as SHOTS RING OUT from the dock, stitching the water across the P.B.R.'s bow. The crew crouches, guns trained on the dock as the boat still approaches.
WILLARD: ( continuing ) They're not Cong.
CHIEF: ( over the loud-hailer ) We're Americans. Another BURST, closer.
CHEF: Maybe you shouldn't say we're Willard stares at the dock and building, trying to figure it out.
WILLARD: Chef, try your French. Chief hands the loud-hailer to Chef, who shrugs and shouts:
CHEF: Nous sommes Americains Nous ne voulon pas vous agresser.
CHEF: ( continuing ) Nous ne voulon pas vous agresser.
CHEF: Nous sommes Americains nous sommes des amis There is silence as the boat drifts closer. Then:
FRENCHMAN: ( shouting out ) Vous parlez Francais comme une vache ( to himself ) I thought it was pretty good, What'd he say?
CHEF: ( to himself ) I thought it was pretty good, What'd he say?
CHIEF: What'd he say?
CHEF: Said I speak French like a Spanish cow.
CHEF: Put the guns straight up stand away from the mounts.
WILLARD: Do it. They do.
CHEF: Take her in slow.
PHILIPPE: Hands on the heads.
CHIEF: I can't steer with my goddamn Hey, they speak American.
CHEF: Hey, they speak American.
GASTON: Who is the commanding officer?
CHIEF: I am I'm Captain B.L. Willard. This is Chief Warrant Officer Phillips it's his boat. We were shot up bad downriver and need repairs and food we can pay you in gold.
I: I am I'm Captain B.L. Willard. This is Chief Warrant Officer Phillips it's his boat. We were shot up bad downriver and need repairs and food we can pay you in gold.
WILLARD: I am I'm Captain B.L. Willard. This is Chief Warrant Officer Phillips it's his boat. We were shot up bad downriver and need repairs and food we can pay you in gold.
GASTON: Philippe moves to another position Kac grabs the rope from the deck and ties it to the dock.
LANCE: I'll help you with
PHILIPPE: Do not move Gaston looks at the skyward pointed twin fifties admiringly.
GASTON: Fifty calibers, eh, Captain
WILLARD: As I said, we can pay you in Entirely unnecessary, Captain. He puts down his gun the others do likewise
GASTON: Entirely unnecessary, Captain. He puts down his gun the others do likewise
GASTON: We share a common enemy you are our guests. I am Gaston de marais this is my family's plantation. It has been such for 121 years. It will be such after I die. This is my son, Philippe he has fought in Algeria and held the rank of Captain. And Henry LeFevre a sergeant; he was at Dien Bien Phu. My personal servant, Tran Van Kac - Then he motions to the trees. A young man in a tiger suit and three women come forward from different positions all wear bush clothing and bear weapons.
GASTON: ( continuing ) My youngest son Christian
GASTON: Christian's wife Ann-Marie A tall girl, goodlooking, but severe she carries an
GASTON: ( continuing ) And my youngest daughter 162 CLOSE ON CLAUDINE an attractive girl about eighteen. She wears a red paratrooper beret and a well-fitted bush suit. She carries an M-79 grenade launcher and plenty of ammunition.
WILLARD: American weapons?
GASTON: We took them from the dead. Now I assume you want to rest, to shower. We'll attend to your repairs after dinner.
CHEF: Willard's men look at one another, dazed.
WILLARD: We don't want to bother you any, A man of war is never bothered to aid an ally you will follow me, Willard steps off then stops, reaches back and picks up his M-16 by the stock.
GASTON: A man of war is never bothered to aid an ally you will follow me, Willard steps off then stops, reaches back and picks up his M-16 by the stock.
WILLARD: A habit of men of war, sir you understand.
GASTON: Of course, Captain an unfortunate necessity. The men are relieved. They pick up their weapons and What about the boat?
CHIEF: What about the boat?
PHILIPPE: My men will keep it for you
CHIEF: Yeah well, I'll stay with the Come with us. They look at each other a moment. The Chief shrugs and follows.
WILLARD: ( pause ) Come with us. They look at each other a moment. The Chief shrugs and follows.
GASTON: A suitable accomodation for your men, captain you will, of course, be quartered with us He indicates that the men should follow Philippe. The Chief is hesitant.
WILLARD: Go ahead Philippe leads them on, muttering.
GASTON: Captain, this way. Willard follows they walk over past the house and toward the jungle, approaching a huge crater, 100 feet across and about thirty feet deep. The bottom is filled with water and young French and Vietnamese children swim in it. On the opposite rim, sit two men and a woman with machine guns. Gaston strides up and looks down at the crater with pride.
GASTON: ( continuing ) Magnificent, eh, Captain? Willard looks.
GASTON: ( continuing ) It is very good there is no current It is very good. I have never seen one like it in all Indochina. I was in Paris when it arrived do you know what might have caused
WILLARD: Looks like a two thousand pound to me. Yeah, a two thousand pound bomb.
GASTON: No, I've seen those in Normandy. This is much better. My country my country could never originate this. Magnificent. Gaston stands in serious admiration for this feat; Willard looks between him and this big hole in the ground in 165 INT. WORKMEN'S SHOWER - EVENING A foreman's shower from the old plantation days. The Chief steps out of it, refreshed, though still exhausted. Lance stands there, about to step in, absolutely filthy, caked with blood. His reaction is odd; rather than just stepping into the shower, he seems almost frightened, reluctant to step in. Chef is waiting behind him.
CHEF: A hot shower, hot damn. He pushes him forward into the water. The dirt and caked mud go swirling off his face and shoulders, and he relaxes as though he suddenly remenbers what a shower is.
CHEF: This food is wonderful ! I can't believe the chef is a slope. Some more? Opposite the table, sitting next to the Chief, Lance reaches hungrily for bread and other food with his hands.
CHEF: ( continuing ) Hey Lance.
LANCE: Huh? Oh. Um, wouldya .. wouldya pass me the Rice-a-roni, And then he looks to his friends for approval. Our VIEW REVEALS that behind a transparent silk curtain there is another, more elaborate table, where the De Marais family is dining with Willard. Our VIEW MOVES through the curtain and settles in a MEDIUM VIEW of the The men rise as a very attractive woman enters the room. Willard finally does as well, and she moves to the chair next to him.
GASTON: Roxanne, I hope you are feeling Je vais bien maintenant.
ROXANNE: Je vais bien maintenant.
GASTON: May I present Captain Willard? He is of a paratroop regiment. You know the difference between a paratrooper and a regular soldier, don't you , my dear?
ROXANNE: ( smiling and taking Yes, they come from the sky. She sits there's an uneasy silence. Willard is caught with this exotic woman on one side of him, and the ongoing conversation on the other. He is forced to face toward Gaston, and drawn to look at Roxanne.
WILLARD: I would like to know more about the .. uh, plaque. Philippe turns around, points to an elaborately scripted wooden plaque with various tallies on it.
GASTON: Attacks repulsed, as I was saying. This is only for this war, Captain. Viet Cong 54; North Vietnamese regular forces 15; South Vietnamese 28 regular forces and otherwise. Americain 6. Of course, they were, perhaps, mistakes, Captain.
WILLARD: Of course. I Once we make our repairs, we could send word, we could have you evacuated from here.
GASTON: You'll get blown outta here some We will never 'evacuate', Captain this is our home. Indochina is ours; it has been so for a hundred and twenty-one years, there is something to say for that.
WILLARD: You'll get blown outta here some We will never 'evacuate', Captain this is our home. Indochina is ours; it has been so for a hundred and twenty-one years, there is something to say for that.
GASTON: We will never 'evacuate', Captain this is our home. Indochina is ours; it has been so for a hundred and twenty-one years, there is something to say for that.
WILLARD: The Vietnamese think it's theirs I guess the Americans do, But we civilized it. A place belongs to those who bring light to it, don't you agree.
GASTON: But we civilized it. A place belongs to those who bring light to it, don't you agree.
WILLARD: I always thought the French came here to get the rubber.
PHILIPPE: Excuse me, I must attend to my He gets up, and leaves abruptely followed by his wife.
ROXANNE: May I ask where the Captain is going in his little boat?
WILLARD: We were going upriver when we got caught in a storm, ma'am.
GASTON: Upriver? Why upriver? There is nothing there, only jungle.
WILLARD: Do you know that jungle?
GASTON: When I was a boy, my father would take me there, to hunt. There are a few savages, but no man can live there, no white man.
WILLARD: What about an American named There is a pause.
GASTON: We have never heard of him. Gaston rises, and takes Roxanne's hand.
GASTON: ( continuing ) Bon nuit, Roxanne bon nuit, Willard turns.
WILLARD: Good night. Gaston leaves. Willard and Roxanne are left alone. The servants clear the table.
ROXANNE: You must realize, Captain we have lost much here I, my husband. Gaston his wife and I'm sorry to hear that.
WILLARD: I'm sorry to hear that.
ROXANNE: ( rising ) I should be checking on the The war will still be here She walks out of the room.
WILLARD: I should be checking on the The war will still be here She walks out of the room.
ROXANNE: The war will still be here She walks out of the room.
WILLARD: ( thinking ) I guess so. He follows.
ROXANNE: Do you miss your home, Captain? Have you someone there?
WILLARD: No. Not really.
ROXANNE: Then you are like us. She reaches out to him; indicating that he sit.
ROXANNE: ( continuing ) What will you do after the war?
WILLARD: I just follow my footsteps, one at a time, trying to answer the little questions and staying away from the big ones.
ROXANNE: What's a big question?
WILLARD: ( pause ) I know you've heard of him.
ROXANNE: What did you hear?
WILLARD: What did you hear?
ROXANNE: That strange things.. terrible things have occured around this American, Kurtz.
WILLARD: What things?
ROXANNE: Gaston would never tell me. It was asubject not to be spoken of, Did you know deeper in the jungle, upriver there are I know.
WILLARD: Did you know deeper in the jungle, upriver there are I know.
ROXANNE: Did you know deeper in the jungle, upriver there are I know.
WILLARD: I know.
ROXANNE: But Captain, I mean cannibals. A long pause. Then she looks at the cognac she poured for What a pity, you don't drink. Since my husband died, there are so many things I must do She takes a sip. Willard moves to the French doors, which have been left partly open to let a breeze in. He steps onto a terrace overlooking the river.
ROXANNE: ( continuing ) What a pity, you don't drink. Since my husband died, there are so many things I must do She takes a sip. Willard moves to the French doors, which have been left partly open to let a breeze in. He steps onto a terrace overlooking the river.
ROXANNE: ( from the sitting room ) Are you warm, Captain?
WILLARD: The river is beautiful. In fact, we REALIZE that he is checking the boat.
ROXANNE: I spend hours watching that river from my bedroom window. It fascinates me. She moves her body close to his; and, in a moment, he is kissing her.
ROXANNE: I have been lonely here, Captain. He moves to her, slipping into the bed. M-16 is leaning against the wall in his reach.
ROXANNE: I will fix you breakfast. He starts to get up.
WILLARD: I'm afraid I won't have time I gotta
ROXANNE: Whe you reach the boat you will find that half your fifty calibre stores a case of grenades, a mortar and two M-16's and a case of clips are being transfered to us by your order. He stops seemingly stunned.
WILLARD: So that's it.
ROXANNE: You may think what you wish, Captain, but I like you very She turns to go.
WILLARD: What if I say no.
ROXANNE: Then Philippe will have to kill all of you. She leaves.
GASTON: Two of my men deserted last night. It happens from time to time. I assume my daughter told you of our conditions.
WILLARD: Your daughter.
CHIEF: They taking half our ammo, Captain said it was your orders. He pauses for a second.
WILLARD: That's right I did. The Chief spits in the water disgustedly and starts the engines. Willard looks hard at Gaston.
WILLARD: I guess this is whAt men of war do eh?
GASTON: We endure, captain you can blow up the house and we will live in the cellar destroy that and we'll dig a hole in the jungle and sleep on it. Burn the forest and we'll hide in the swamp. all the while, we do but one thing clean the blood off our bayonets. Au revoir, Captain.
CHIEF: Next time we get in a good fire fight I'd like to know how she was, Captain. Willard just smiles at the Chief. he leans over and pulls up a floorboard the men stare in amezement; it contains the contents of all those ammo boxes. .50 calibre; clips; Holy shit.
CHEF: Holy shit.
CLEAN: What did you put in all those ammo boxes?
WILLARD: Rocks, sand those two men who deserted.
CHIEF: When'd you do it?
WILLARD: While you were sleeping. He lets the board drop. Willard moves to the back of the boat.
CHIEF: All right, Lance Lance's TWIN FIFTIES split the silence as they POUR into the skulls on the opposite bank Suddenly there is a tremendous EXPLOSION and SECONDARY ONES from the jungle as shrapnel rips into the jungle and water from CLAYMORE MINES obviously set to cover the mound of skulls. The smoke clears.
LANCE: The other one
WILLARD: No leave it
CHIEF: Why Charlie put it there to kill
WILLARD: Thta's not Charlie's work There is silence.
WILLARD: Whoever put'em there didn't do it to kill people They put 'em up as signs
CHIEF: Yeah like keep out Willard motions the Chief accelerates they move ahead past the smoking mound.
WILLARD: Yeah like keep out Willard motions the Chief accelerates they move ahead past the smoking mound.
WILLARD: What is it?
CHIEF: What is it?
WILLARD: They are silent. We can HEAR the most ominous SOUND COMING FROM THE BANKS. The GROANING, OR WAILING .. of
CHIEF: They're on the banks of the 200 VIEW ON LANCE Frantically, he swings the twin fifties around.
LANCE: Jesus !
CHIEF: No, Lance. Not while you can't 202 VIEW ON WILLARD listening. The SOUND IS TERRIBLE, HORRIFYING.
CHIEF: Will they attack?
WILLARD: If they have boats . or canoes. they'd get lost in the fog. We can't move either we'll end up on the shore.
CHEF: Sounds like hundreds of them.
LANCE: Sounds like hundreds of them.
WILLARD: The CHORUS OF GROANS in unbearable. But it is not ahostile cahnt; or a war chant, but rather the SOUND OF HUMAN
WILLARD: ( continuing ) It doesn't sound hostile it sounds like they've seen us coming and it sounds like I don't know, a funeral. I don't understand.
CHIEF: Which way? Right or left?
WILLARD: Who knows? Right.
CHIEF: Looks pretty shallow. The P.B.R. moves toard the right-most channel. Chef takes a long pole and begins sounding depth.
WILLARD: ( reading ) Upon reaching objective. Target key personnel and commence operation. Should difficulty arise from which extraction is impossible, break radio silence Com-Sec Command code Strong Arm indicate purgative air strike code Street Gang. ( pause ) Purgative air strike ! Purgative ! They'd kill me too ! Suddenly Chef lays out flat on the bow. Hundreds and hundreds of slender sticks fly onto the P.B.R. rattling against the boat.
CHIEF: Shit ! Fucking arrows ! They're shooting fucking arrows at us.
WILLARD: Steer her right.
WILLARD: Keep going.. keep going. They're just fucking sticks ! Chief, stay at the helm. But Chief seems out of control he lets the clip of his M-16 go. Then slowly lets the rifle fall out of his hands, and falls to Willard's feet, a primitive spear having caught him right through the ribs. Willard looks down in 210 VIEW ON CHIEF laying at Willard's feet the long spear through him, bleeding onto Willard's boots. He looks up at Willard, about to say something.
CHIEF: A spear? He dies.
WILLARD: Stop it. Slowly he pulls his boots from under Chief. They are absolutely soaked in blood. He is stunned sits down and begins to unlace the bloody boots, and take them off.
LANCE: Chief's dead. Willard unlaces the other boot, and holds the bloody boot in his hand.
WILLARD: Just stand here with me where they can see us. Do nothing.
WILLARD: We've been attacked.
AUSTRALIAN: ( shouting back ) I know, I know, it's all right. Come in this way. It's mined over there. This way. It's all right. Willard look at Chef who is at the helm. He shrugs and they do as this man says. The P.B.R. moves towards the water's edge where there is a dock covered with concertina wire. The odd Australian stands waving his hat, guiding them safely in. A thick greasy smoke hangs from fires that burn near the fort; fresh shell craters indicate a recent battle. Near the dock there is a tangled clump of corpses half sub- merged in the water. Other piles of bodies lie about, some of them on fire. Fire literally burns from out of the ground. Chef nods at the bodies.
CHEF: Looks that way.
WILLARD: Looks that way.
CHEF: ( looking at the Australian ) Who's he?
WILLARD: God knows. The boat pulls up. The Australian harlequin hops on board; the crew regards him with their dark faces splat- tered with mud and blood.
WILLARD: ( continuing ) Who the hell are you?
AUSTRALIAN: Moonby. Got any Winstons?
WILLARD: Moonby what?
AUSTRALIAN: Moonby, 4th battalion, Royal Australian Regiment, Task Force. Ex-Corporal Moonby, deserted.
WILLARD: ( incredulously, indicating the hundreds of natives ) What is this?
MOONBY: Oh, they're simple enough people. It's good to see you, baby. Nobody has any Winstons? Chef automatically offers Moonby a Winston.
MOONBY: This boat's a mess.
WILLARD: Where's Kurtz? I want to talk to him.
MOONBY: Oh, you don't talk to Colonel You listen to him. God, these are good. I kept these people off you, you know. It wasn't Why did they attack us?
WILLARD: Why did they attack us?
MOONBY: Simple. They don't want him to You're Australian?
WILLARD: You're Australian?
MOONBY: Pre-Australian, actually. But I'd dig goin' to California. I'm California dreamin'.
WILLARD: ( almost to himself ) So Kurtz is alive.
MOONBY: Kurtz. I tell you, that man has enlarged my mind. He opens his arms wide, to indicate the breadth of his mind's expansion.
MOONBY: ( continuing ) But lemme tell you, he is the most dangerous thing in every way that I've come on so far. He wanted to shoot me. The first thing he said is, 'I'm going to shoot you because you are a deserter.' I said I didn't desert from your army, I deserted from my army. He said, 'I'm going to shoot you just the same.'
WILLARD: Why didn't he shoot you?
MOONBY: I've asked myself that question. I said to myself, why didn't he shoot me? He didn't shoot me, because I had a stash like you wouldn't believe. I hid it in the jungle; the wealth of the Orient: Marijuana Hashish Opium cocaine uncut Heroin; the Gold of the Golden Triangle. and Acid I make Koolaid that makes purple Owsley come on like piss. Now I'm Kurtz' own Disciple I listen he talks. About everything ! Everything. I forgot there's such a thing as sleep. Everything. Of love, too.
CHEF: Oh, no, not what you think. Cosmic love. He made me see things things, you know. The whole time Moonby is chattering on, Willard has picked up his field glasses and scans the fortress.
MOONBY: Oh, no, not what you think. Cosmic love. He made me see things things, you know. The whole time Moonby is chattering on, Willard has picked up his field glasses and scans the fortress.
WILLARD: Sounds like he's gone crazy.
MOONBY: No, Colonel Kurtz couldn't be crazy if you heard him talk, just last week, you'd never think he was crazy.
WILLARD: Is that where he is? By the shrunken heads.
MOONBY: Those heads, yes. Well, the We're going ashore. Tie her up and leave your guns up, Lance.
WILLARD: ( to his men ) We're going ashore. Tie her up and leave your guns up, Lance.
LANCE: Bring your rifles, that's all. Take us to him.
WILLARD: Bring your rifles, that's all. Take us to him.
MOONBY: Right on he's been waiting And shut up. Moonby nods and shrugs, and hops off the P.B.R. willard and the men follow.
WILLARD: And shut up. Moonby nods and shrugs, and hops off the P.B.R. willard and the men follow.
WILLARD: Who are you?
MOONBY: ( breaking in ) His name is.
WILLARD: I'm not ever goin' to tell you to shut up again. Moonby shuts up. The MAN tries to speak, but nothing comes out. He is dumbstrucked at seeing them, as they are to see him.
MAN: Colby. Exec. officer, A-Team. Special Forces. F-82 Col. Walter Kurtz, commanding.
WILLARD: What happened here?
COLBY: What happened here.
WILLARD: NVA regulars. They're coming again tonight. Tet their big assault. Willard is the man in the middle he doesn't know what to say to this man, but he understands the forces that pounded him. He takes his arm.
COLBY: NVA regulars. They're coming again tonight. Tet their big assault. Willard is the man in the middle he doesn't know what to say to this man, but he understands the forces that pounded him. He takes his arm.
WILLARD: I'm taking you back. Moonby slaps himself in the head with his hand.
MOONBY: Oh, no, don´t say that.
COLBY: Take us back. Take us back ! But, the operation the team. Colonel Kurtz has such plans for the team.
WILLARD: Take me to him, Major. Colby starts, and then, seeing the shrunken heads on poles, he turns, agitated, to Willard:
COLBY: I had nothing to do with these operations I did not do the planning none of us did. It was all Colonel Kurtz he was the genius. You'll see the genius of our Colonel. He should be made a General, don't you think? A General? It's. Suddenly, frightened, he stops. Without looking Willard knows that Kurtz is standing behind him. He turns. Kurtz has stepped out from his headquarters: He is a powerful man, though obviously very ill. He slowly attempts to pull the remnants of his uniform together, though it is ripped and bloodied, and now combined with primitive ornaments designating him a tribal chief, as well as his U.S.A. Colonel's insignia. He is feverish, with long blonde hair and beautiful features. His eyes almost hypnotize. His midsection is bandaged from what seems to be a serious wound.
WILLARD: Colonel Kurtz, I guess.
KURTZ: I'm Kurtz.
WILLARD: ( he salutes ) Captain B.L. Willard reporting his presence, sir.
KURTZ: At ease. Sit down.
KURTZ: ( slowly ) Why did you come to . my province.
WILLARD: We were attacked down river. We need supplies and medical You were not coming here, to see me?
KURTZ: You were not coming here, to see me?
WILLARD: ( finding it more and No no, sir.
KURTZ: You came up my river in that small boat. So simple. I always thought the final justice would come from the sky, like we did. You are the final justice, aren't you?
WILLARD: What do you mean, Colonel?
KURTZ: ( gently ) What other reason could you have come? A Captain. Ranger. Paratrooper. Graduate of the Recondo School. Am I right about these things?
WILLARD: You know you're right. There is a clear, incredible intelligence about this man.
KURTZ: Then the Agency approached you. Maybe in a bar in Quinon or Pleiku. Simple. A year's pay for one life. Perhaps a village elder, or a tax collector. Nobody's orders but your own. Exciting work.
KURTZ: You've spent tome at the Royal Tracking School of Malaysia. I can tell from the way the laces on your boots are tied. I understand you, Captain. We understand each other. There is a long pause, as the two men regard each other. Then Willard reaches to his holstered .45 withdraws it, and places it on the dirt before Kurtz, as an act assuring Kurtz that he is not an assasin.
WILLARD: Do you know me?
KURTZ: Kurtz reaches down; takes the .45 and without another word or gesture, shoots and kills a man.
KURTZ: ( continuing ) Do you know me ? He throws the .45 back on the dirt. Rises, and walks back into the cavernous headquarters behind the shrunken heads. Moonby scampers off after him, a respectful distance behind. Even Willard is stunned.
CHEF: Holy shit.
CHEF: Captain they've been probed all this week Cong and NVA regulars. There's gonna be a big offense any time.
WILLARD: I know. Lance stirs; starts to wake up.
CHEF: What are we doing here?
WILLARD: Kurtz. I'm supposed to kill him, just like he said.
KURTZ: Yeah, I can see that. He's fuckin nuts
WILLARD: He killed that guy without feeling Not a thing.
CHEF: He killed that guy without feeling Not a thing.
WILLARD: Not a thing.
CHEF: When you kill Cong, don't you feel something.
WILLARD: ( thinking ) Recoil. I feel the recoil of my rifle. Willard rises. Chef looks at him, confused and frightened.
WILLARD: This is good triple overlapping fields of fire walls so thick ordinary artillery just cleans the moss off their surfaces. A woman tentatively moves to Willard, bowing, and then runs off to her bunker. WE ARE TRACKING with them as they move past the groups of people, huddled by their fires. men, women and children. Skulls, shrunken and otherwise hang from every hut adorn every sandbagged bunker dried scalps hang from barbed wire. A child is chewing on a big piece of almost raw meat.
WILLARD: ( continuing ) I've done things, when I was alone in the jungle that I never told anyone about. They continue past amount where the shattered wreck of half a helicopter is laying. It has been altered and fortified with sandbags and concertina wire. The wreck lays on its side so that a 7.62 mini-gun that was mounted there sticks up above the sandbags. The emplacement is built on amound so the gun commands a clear field of fire into the jungle beyond. Some Americans, barely recognizible because of their beards and savage manner, sit near the gun. Several Montagnard children giggle at their feet and play with This is evil evil, Captain. We're all gonna die here.
CHEF: This is evil evil, Captain. We're all gonna die here.
WILLARD: Yeah, I know.
CHEF: I don't get it You said your mission was to kill him. Let's do it, an' get our asses outta here. This Kurtz is ruining the war; I mean, this don't look good for America !
WILLARD: ( lost in his thoughts ) . he's an amazing officer.
CHEF: You got to kill this sonuvabitch Lance and me, we don'´t understand none of this Jesus, Captain I don't wanna die here Do it quick. Lance just stands there; his eyes vacant.. He sort of nods, sucking a joint.
WILLARD: Yeah. I know. He thinks.
MOONBY: He's asleep don't bother him.
KURTZ: I'm awake. Willard steps in closer. Kurtz looks to Moonby.
KURTZ: ( continuing ) You. Get out. Moonby hesitates not wanting to leave him alone with ( continuing; suddenly ) I said get the fuck out ! ( to himself ) I'm going to kill the little weirdo myself tomorrow. ( he shows some pain He´s only stayed alive this long because he's a good orderly and medic. He knows how to use a You're gonna get hit tonight, bad a whole regiment of NVA That's right, the little gook- pricks. But they are noble little gook-pricks, noble. Because they fight with their guts, like animals. And for an idea ! That's rich. We fight with ingenious machines and fire, like Gods, and for nothing. But I'll call in a major blotto airstrike tonight. We'll have ourselves a helluva airstrike tonight, a lightshow. How do you like The Doors': 'C'mon Baby Light My Fire.' Willard shrugs.
KURTZ: ( continuing; suddenly ) I said get the fuck out ! ( to himself ) I'm going to kill the little weirdo myself tomorrow. ( he shows some pain He´s only stayed alive this long because he's a good orderly and medic. He knows how to use a You're gonna get hit tonight, bad a whole regiment of NVA That's right, the little gook- pricks. But they are noble little gook-pricks, noble. Because they fight with their guts, like animals. And for an idea ! That's rich. We fight with ingenious machines and fire, like Gods, and for nothing. But I'll call in a major blotto airstrike tonight. We'll have ourselves a helluva airstrike tonight, a lightshow. How do you like The Doors': 'C'mon Baby Light My Fire.' Willard shrugs.
WILLARD: You're gonna get hit tonight, bad a whole regiment of NVA That's right, the little gook- pricks. But they are noble little gook-pricks, noble. Because they fight with their guts, like animals. And for an idea ! That's rich. We fight with ingenious machines and fire, like Gods, and for nothing. But I'll call in a major blotto airstrike tonight. We'll have ourselves a helluva airstrike tonight, a lightshow. How do you like The Doors': 'C'mon Baby Light My Fire.' Willard shrugs.
KURTZ: That's right, the little gook- pricks. But they are noble little gook-pricks, noble. Because they fight with their guts, like animals. And for an idea ! That's rich. We fight with ingenious machines and fire, like Gods, and for nothing. But I'll call in a major blotto airstrike tonight. We'll have ourselves a helluva airstrike tonight, a lightshow. How do you like The Doors': 'C'mon Baby Light My Fire.' Willard shrugs.
KURTZ: ( continuing ) Do you?
WILLARD: Yeah, I like it.
KURTZ: He rests back, grinning.
WILLARD: You've gone crazy.
KURTZ: ( angrily ) No. My thinking is clear. ( calmly ) But my soul has gone mad. Suddenly Kurtz is seized with a terrible pain from his stomach wound. He groans horribly, clutching at it. He literally falls from his chair onto the dirt floor.
KURTZ: ( continuing ) My gut Oh, Christ, my gut ! Willard leans over him; checking the seriousness of the 242 EXT. THE HEADQUARTERS - NIGHT Lance is crouching by the stone entrance Chef leans in, witnessing the proceedings inside.
CHEF: ( muttering ) Kill him come on, why don't you kill him
NIGHT: Willard examining the wound.
KURTZ: ( in pain ) Oh shit on the table; morphine. Willard moves to the table, opens the medical packet. He takes out a morphine capsule, leans over the writhing Kurtz and injects him with the drug.
KURTZ: ( continuing; looking You see how stupid it would have been to blow out my brains? I'm dying from the gut anyway. Willard quickly prepares another shot. Kurtz, truly frightened, holds up his hand.
KURTZ: ( continuing ) No I don't want to sleep. I want to think. Water. Give me water.
WILLARD: You can't have water after Still playing by the rules. You're a damn good kiler.
KURTZ: Still playing by the rules. You're a damn good kiler.
WILLARD: ( still holding the How's the pain?
KURTZ: How's yours?
WILLARD: I can handle it.
KURTZ: Pain is easy to handle but nobility.. the nobility of a man is judged by how much Truth he can handle.
WILLARD: What Truth?
KURTZ: The truth that you were sent here to murder me, ans so far you haven't done it. And do you know why? Yes, you know why. Your mission makes about as much sense as those idiots who sent you on it. Asshole ! Schmuck ! How long does it take you to figure out that nobody knows what they're doing here. Except me. He rests back. The drug is beginning to take effect.
KURTZ: ( continuing ) Gimme water.
WILLARD: No water.
KURTZ: You know what you're doing? You are interfering with my plans ! He crawls in pain toward the canteen Willard watches him impassively.
KURTZ: ( continuing ) This water's got Moonby's acid in it He drinks sloppily from the canteen, water spilling all over. Then he throws the canteen to Willard.
KURTZ: ( continuing ) Drink it drink it for tonight. Think of it. A whole regiment of those shitty little Cong War. Total war war like you've never known it. It's beautiful you'll love it. Trust me.
CHEF: Lance the fucker's not gonna do it.
KURTZ: Goddamn You've gotta dig napalm on Speed, too. It's spectacular, you'll see. Lance stands up holding his M-16, looks into the cavern with Chef.
KURTZ: Look into the jungle. You can't it's too terrible. You have to smear yourself with warpaint to look at it you have to be a That's why warpaint was invented. Then it becomes your jungle. Willard shoots himself in the arm with the morphine.
WILLARD: How did we get here?
KURTZ: Because of all the things we do, the thing we do best is lie.
WILLARD: I think think a lie stinks.
KURTZ: Oh Captain, that is so true.
WILLARD: Stinks. I could never figure I could never figure how they can teach boys how to bomb villages with napalm and not let them write the word 'fuck' on their Willard drinks more of the LSD water.
KURTZ: ( angrily ) You could never figure it because it doesn't make sense.
WILLARD: Fuck no.
KURTZ: I'll tell you what makes sense ! Air strikes ! White Phosphorus ! Napalm ! We'll bomb the shit out of them if they don't do what we want.
WILLARD: We'll exterminate the fuckers ! Chef steps into the Headquarters he is terrified. He draws his bayonet.
CHEF: Captain kill him.
KURTZ: Think of it for years, millions of years, savages with pathetic painted faces were scared shitless that fire would rain down from the sky. And goddamn, we made it happen. God bless Dow !
CHEF: Kill him ! Chef rushes at Kurtz with his bayonet instinctively, Willard GUNS him then there is additional automatic FIRE. Chef is being riddled by bullets.
LANCE: ( FIRING ) Hot damn ! Then hes tops Chef falls to the dirt there is an instant of silence, then:
SOLDIER: Another behind him is chanting the word NAPALM softly t 252 MED. VIEW ON THE GATE Willard strides out of the darkness, into the positions around the gate. He looks like a magnificent warrior Genghis. All the men: Montagnards, fierce Americans, even the savage men of the P.B.R. crew either bow, salute or kneel before Willard. The color pulsates around the edge of the image, red and green, mauve and We SEE Lance; waiting, with his weapons garlands of teeth around his neck, his face painted.
KURTZ: Mini-gun. Colby. Sergeant. 262 MED. SHOT - MINI-GUN A SERGEANT in feathered head-piece and wildly painted operates the mini-gun with several native helpers. SHELLS BURST around them. When they FIRE the SOUND is incredibly loud and steady like a high-pitched foghorn. A solid stream of molten lead seems to pour into the darkness as 7000 rounds a minute rip into the enemy. The pass of the lead reaches out in beautiful patterns as the Ser- geant sweeps the area. The sergeant laughs maniacally as the GUN resumes FIRING, right up to the moment he is blown to eternity by an all-engulfing 105mm shell.
WILLARD: Colby pushes a row of plungers: Advancing NVAs il- luminated by napalm drums, phosphorescent napalm EXPLODES beautiful, like a magnificent firework.
KURTZ: Claymores, claymores. The SOUND DISTORTED of tremendous HOWLING EXPLOSIONS penetrate the track of LIGHT MY FIRE one after another. Kurtz's face is illuminated by each of these. His face seems to change from one grotesgue primitive face to another, as though the whole history mankind is evolv- ing in front of us. The SCREAMS of maimed and dismembered men almost pene- trates the INCREDIBLY LOUD MUSIC and we HEAR Kurtz's men LAUGHING and SCREAMING in delight. Kurtz looks out over the field of slaughter.
WILLARD: Code Street Gang Street Gang ! Purgative air strike; Street Gang ! He turns and runs back through the compound with the receding Montagnards. SHELLS are EXPLODING everywhere. The light patterns are fantastic. Men fall, Viets break over the walls and charge. They crouch and rip into them FULL AUTOMATIC. They break the charge and continue cutting their way through the NVA masses like torches through metal.
KURTZ: ( yelling ) Charles ! They stagger and fall, shattered and bleeding, save one who's merely lost his weapon. Kurtz looks at him, his gun empty. He drops it and flips open the flap of his holster. The Viet soldier goes for his pistol. Kurtz beats him to the draw and bloes him into the night. He moves over to pick up the NVA light machine gun. Holding it at his hip, he stands atop one of the ruined walls and FIRES into the masses. His native men see him and rush for the chance to die beside him. They are quickly encircled by onrushing Viets and are being overrun. The machine gun jams and Kurtz grabs a rifle. When it's empty and the bayonet is off he wields it as a club.
KURTZ: Go away hide yourself.
WILLARD: What are you doing?
KURTZ: Going back - to the jungle to I'm taking you back. You can still live.
WILLARD: I'm taking you back. You can still live.
KURTZ: I had immense plans.
WILLARD: I'm gonna get you out of here.
KURTZ: I was on threshold of great Willard slings Kurtz's bleeding body around his neck, holding his hand, dragging hom through the jungle. The spectacle continues in the b.g.
COLBY: Who is he?
WILLARD: He was the tragedy the tragedy of this war.
KURTZ: Don't. Don't frighten them away. Willard looks down at him.
WILLARD: So you understand this? Kurtz looks up at him, past him with fury, longing in his eyes. There is a slight smile.
KURTZ: Do I not?
KURTZ: My river. my people. my jungle. my ideas. my country. my wife. . my death.
WILLARD: You had immense plans. immense plans.
KURTZ: I'm taking you back. Kurtz looks up to him, then an expression of overwhelming intense and hopeless terror, hopeless despair. A whisper at some image, at some vision, he cries out twice, a cry that is no more than a breath.
WILLARD: I'm taking you back. Kurtz looks up to him, then an expression of overwhelming intense and hopeless terror, hopeless despair. A whisper at some image, at some vision, he cries out twice, a cry that is no more than a breath.
KURTZ: The horror, the horror. We HEAR the distant SOUND of HELICOPTERS approaching. The SOUND of ROTORS in the distance. They look up, craning their eyes at the sky. Colby points.
COLBY: Over the jungle mountains the small formation of MEDEVAC helicopters hooping toward them.
COLBY: ( continuing ) How did they know?
WILLARD: They must have seen the fire. The helicopters are closer now but high up. Two of them breaking off, spiraling in TOWARD US.
COLBY: They're coming to rescue us. They're Medevac.
WILLARD: ( to himself ) They're coming to take us back. Copters directly overhead.
WILLARD: ( continuing ) Colonel Kurtz, he's dead.
COLBY: Colonel Kurtz, he's dead.
WILLARD: He raises his M-16 and FIRES the entire clip at the ap- proaching rescue helicopter.
WILLARD: Colby takes his rifle and joins Willard in FIRING at the retreating American helicopters.
WILLARD: I never answered questions about Kurtz I gave them a few of his unimportant papers but for the most part I saved everything. There were other letters, personal ones written earlier to his wife. I brought them to het. I watched the fall of Saigon on television in a bar in Alameda.
WILLARD: Then the door opens, and KURTZ'S WIFE is standing at the door. She is still beautiful, blonde, and dressed in mourning even though she doesn't wear black. There is a sense of purity about her, though she is not young.
KURTZ'S WIFE: Come in, Captain Willard. He enters.
KURTZ'S WIFE: Can I get anything for you? There are pictures of Kurtz, not too many. but he is there in the various stages of his career. Then she sits suddenly, and Willard sits by her.
KURTZ'S WIFE: ( continuing ) Did you know him very well?
WILLARD: You get to know each other pretty well out there.
KURTZ'S WIFE: And you admired him?
WILLARD: He was a remarkable man. It was impossible not to
KURTZ'S WIFE: Love him. Yes, it is true. That's the hard part for me. I knew him better than anyone . I knew him best.
WILLARD: You knew him best.
KURTZ'S WIFE: You were his friend. You must have been, if he had given you If he sent you to his home. He was the best this country had he was
WILLARD: Yes, I know.
KURTZ'S WIFE: I'll never get over it But I'll always remember him.
WILLARD: Both of us.
KURTZ'S WIFE: Men looked up to him. He died as he lived.
WILLARD: His death was yes, he died as he lived.
KURTZ'S WIFE: Were you with him, when.
WILLARD: Yes I was. He said his last words to me. 290 MED. CLOSE SHOT ON WILLARD A little of the madness is still with him. He knows what she will ask.
KURTZ'S WIFE: What were they?
KURTZ'S WIFE: Tell me.
KURTZ'S WIFE: Tell me what he said.
WILLARD: He spoke of you, ma'am. He sits there looking at her.
