FADE IN: EXT. FERRY LANDING - NEW ENGLAND SHORE - DAY The sparkling waters. The chirping spring day. We are on an isolated stretch of country shore , and a quiet, sheltered island is visible distantly across the Sound. There is asense of anticipation, excitement. VOICES can be heard. THE CAMERA is the POV of a VIDEO CAMERA, and a group of college kids wait just o.s. On-screen, however, for the moment, a proper, sweet-faced young COED faces the camera and reluctantly, under the urging of her friend behind the video lens - - sets the scene.
SWEET COED: ( SHYLY )
SWEET COED: Something about myself? Oh, Gee. ( composing herself, earnestly ) Well, I want to work with handicapped children. My parents are my best Friends. Next semester I start convent school, and I. fuck on the first date. O.S. her friends explode with LAUGHTER. Brassy former deb NIKKI BRASHEARS gives us a big, wet wink, dropping the act.
CHAZ'S VOICE: Whoo! Outrageous woman! Nikki, you are my kind o' gal! He PANS THE CAMERA over to KIT a pretty, unaffected, natural beauty, bright and very much aware.
CHAZ'S VOICE: C'mon, Kit, how about you? Kit waves him off, laughing in spite of herself. She's got nothing to C'mon , Arch? Skip? He PANS over to the other two college boys on the dock here - ARCH, a big, good-natured, easygoing WASP jock ( rugby and crew ); and SKIP, Mr. Preppy, the perfect image of the lazy spoiled, indulged, and reckless upper-crust kid. Skip also happens to be Muffy's cousin.
KIT: CHAZ'S VOICE
CHAZ'S VOICE: C'mon , Arch? Skip? He PANS over to the other two college boys on the dock here - ARCH, a big, good-natured, easygoing WASP jock ( rugby and crew ); and SKIP, Mr. Preppy, the perfect image of the lazy spoiled, indulged, and reckless upper-crust kid. Skip also happens to be Muffy's cousin.
ARCH: ( ponders it with due consideration ) Yeah, sure. I fuck on the first date. Skip cracks up. Arch's laughter follows.
CHAZ'S VOICE: ( teasing, with innuendo ) Yeah, Kit, where is he?
KIT: Oh, c'mon, Chaz, give me some room, will you? He does, finally shutting down the videopak. The image reverts to FILM ( looks at her, persisting ) INT. VOLVO WAGON IN MOTION - MAIN HIGHWAY - DAY The driver a still great-looking, turned-out Fairfield County-type SUBURBAN LADY and the passenger, ROB FERRIS a cleancut, goodlooking, 20 year old public school grad ­sit in uncomfortable silence on opposite ends of the front seat.
NIKKI: ( looks at her, persisting ) INT. VOLVO WAGON IN MOTION - MAIN HIGHWAY - DAY The driver a still great-looking, turned-out Fairfield County-type SUBURBAN LADY and the passenger, ROB FERRIS a cleancut, goodlooking, 20 year old public school grad ­sit in uncomfortable silence on opposite ends of the front seat.
ROB: ( gestures, awkwardly ) Here'll be fine, thanks.
ROB: ( ABASHED )
SUBURBAN LADY: ( smiles, no reason for disappointment ) It was a real lift for me, too, hon. A late model Detroit sedan slows at the intersection, turning off the highway to take the junction in the direction Rob is going. A road sign indicates: "BAR HARBOR MOUNT DESERT" in another direction. Rob hefts his gear, hurrying to flag the sedan. The Volvo wagon continues on, braking for the next undergraduate male hitchhiking down the road.
CLARA: ( CALLING )
MUFFY: CLARA'S VOICE
CLARA'S VOICE: Need any help down there? Clara comes clopping down the steps. Muffy turns, the mannequin's arm still in her hand. Old workclothes and a head kerchief take the place of Muffy's normally impeccable prep Seven Sisters outfit ( including the regulation penny loafers ) in all this dust. Early 20's, pretty in an off-beat sort of way, Muffy is every inch a blue-blood.
MUFFY: ( puffing with the effort ) No, Clara, thanks. Just trying some last minute straightening down here. god, I don't think I've ever worked so hard in my life.!
CLARA: Sure you don't want me to stay? There's nobody gonna be around here to help till first ferry back Monday, y'know.
MUFFY: ( continuing with her work ) Nope, you're a peach, Clara. But this one's mine. I told my father I'd do it, and I will. My way. I don't want him to have any excuses.
CLARA: ( dubiously , turning to go ) All right, then. Have a nice party.
MUFFY: ( a buoyant laugh ) Nice? It has to be better than nice. it's gotta be bloody Clara climbs the stairs.
CLARA: Good luck.
CHAZ: Here she comes. He's a real hi-tech freak and Ivy League wiseass, a free spirit in neo-punk neck curl and button-down shirt. He shoulders his lightweight videopak again, taping it. Arch and Skip watch with him from the end of the pier. But Kit and Nikki, waiting nearer the office, are distracted by the SOUND of an arriving car.
NAN: ( HURRIED )
NIKKI I: Any second now.
NAN: Oh, thank goodness ! I didn't know if I was on the right road. Kit smiles welcome, lending a hand as Nan struggles the bag up the Hi. Kit Graham. Nikki Brashears.
KIT: Hi. Kit Graham. Nikki Brashears.
NAN: Nan Youngblood.
NIKKI: ( needling, about the suitcase ) Planning on staying a while?
NAN: ( flushes, embarrassed ) Oh, no. just some work for finals, when we get back. you don't know how far behind I am. Arch outhustles Chaz for her bag. Her simple attractiveness exerts an Hi. Arch Cummings . I've seen you around. Jewett Hall, right?
ARCH: Hi. Arch Cummings . I've seen you around. Jewett Hall, right?
CHAZ: Chaz Vyshinsky. You got great legs.
NIKKI: ( pointed1y, reminds him ) Chaz, Arch already has her bag. Meaning, Chaz is Nikki's man, especially for this weekend.
NAN: ( volunteering, happily ) Well, I only met Muffy this term in Drama Society . I volunteered to do their costumes. I like to sew. Did you see her in Ghosts? She's so talented. She was wonderful!
SKIP: ( to Nan, approvingly; in greeting ) Congratulations, on finding your way. The landing BUMPS, the ferry touches down. They look up.
ANGLE CHANGE: ( BARKS )
FERRYMAN: ( BARKS )
NIKKI: ( IN MOCK-TERROR )
ARCH: ( BEHIND HER )
NIKKI: ( SUGGESTIVE )
CHAZ: ( a low whisper ) Your fly's open, and your Hostess Twinkie's hanging out. The assistant gapes, falling for it, groping his fly. Which is closed, of course. He looks up, grinning. Chaz kisses him on the cheek, winks and moves on.
BUCK: Sh -i-i-t. Kit is hanging back on the dock.
FERRYMAN: Come on if you're coming.
KIT: ( URGENTLY )
FERRYMAN: ( GRUFFLY )
KIT: But you've got to wait. They said it's the only way over. If he misses this. Arch WHISTLES loudly, seeing and alerting them.
HARVEY: Wait up! Harvey is the driver of the sedan, and after he carefully locks up, he comes running with his bag, too. He is a rangy, straight-arrow Ivy League farmboy from the Border South, and he's the last of Muffy's invited guests. He also, somewhat incongruously, sports a Bruce Springsteen badge.
ROB: ( to Kit, kissing her ) Sorry. Nik, Chaz. ( to Skip and Nan whom he doesn't know ) Rob Ferris. They return greetings.
HARVEY: ( RIGHT BEHIND )
CHAZ: You're friends with. Muffy St. John?
HARVEY: ( PROUDLY )
NIKKI: I get it. That's a joke. Preppy Skip adds his greeting.
SKIP: ( an ironical nod ) ( correcting him, blithely ) ( noticing interest his badge ) Springsteen, he's still the Boss!
HARVEY: ( correcting him, blithely ) ( noticing interest his badge ) Springsteen, he's still the Boss!
FERRYMAN: ( IMPATIENTLY )
HARVEY: ( enthusiastically, putting down his fear ) YOU all buddies?
NIKKI: Except for Skip and Nan. Them we just met.
KIT: ( AMIABLY )
CHAZ: ( MEANING SKIP )
HARVEY: ( tickled, to Skip ) No kiddin'?
SKIP: Distant. Over the horizon. Otherwise, I wouldn't be invited. ( frowns, tellingly ) Old money never mixes family with friends.
NIKKI: This is true. For as long as I've known her.
KIT: ( JOKING )
SKIP: ( UNSMILING )
ARCH: ( nervously, a laugh ) Hey, what's this.?
SKIP: You up for a game of stretch?
CHAZ: ( still taping, to Skip ) Your fly's open.
SKIP: Eat it.
CHAZ: ( undaunted, to Rob ) Your fly's open.
ROB: ( smiles weakly to Kit ) We're off! They are indeed.
SKIP: First round, the champ!
HARVEY: Y'know what I find amazin'? Muffy's her real name. I mean, I'm Harvey, but they call me Hal, so I thought, 'Muffy', it must stand for something. Muffin?
NIKKI: Muffers, Moffo, Muff-child , Muffin' stuff, the Muffster.
HARVEY: ( GRINS )
NIKKI: ( BORED )
HARVEY: You know what I mean.
NIKKI: Harvey. are you planning a career in politics when you grow up?
HARVEY: I've given it some thought. Why?
NIKKI: Oh, just a hunch.
HARVEY: First, though, I'm hopin' to interview with her daddy's company, Southern Regional Sales, next year before graduation. Y'know, he's worth more'n 50 mill over the counter! She just stares at him.
SKIP: ( LAUGHING )
CHAZ: fastens onto Nan, immersed in one of her books. He carries his own.
CHAZ: ( sitting beside her ) Whatcha readin'?
NAN: Milton. Paradise Lost. For Professor Russo's course on the English epic. It's a shame. It's a dying form. Not too many people read it nowadays, even in college. What's yours?
CHAZ: ( SHOWS HER )
KIT: ( STILL MIFFED )
ROB: You don't want me to hitch, you want me to buy a car. OK, but I'm a state university boy, I don't have the perks like some of you private college kids do.
KIT: Oh, c'mon, don't pull that. Rob just drops his arms in frustration. KIT ( cont. ) I mean, it may show something about your attitude toward me, always being late.
ROB: Arch's voice interrupts.
ARCH'S VOICE: ( annoyed, loudly, overriding the other conversations ) Hey, I'm really not interested anymore
SKIP: C'mon, just one more The others look up at the interruption.
ANGLE: Arch pushes the knife back into Skip's hand, tired of playing knife- I said, enough's enough
ARCH: I said, enough's enough
SKIP: One more try, double or nothing. He flips the knife to Arch, handle first.
ARCH: ( PISSED OFF )
ANOTHER ANGLE: Skip stares back, disbelieving, looking down and pulling his hand away from his chest, where the blood begins to seep and the jackknife sticks out, buried hilt-deep between his ribs.
SKIP: ( PALE )
SKIP: Nan screams. Skip stumbles, teetering there at the edge of the ferry. Rob and Chaz leap to their feet. The ferrymen both look up in disbelief. Arch steps forward to help. But Skip, weaving, topples and splashes overboard. He goes under.
ARCH: ( panicked, hurrying to the side ) I'll get him, I'll get him! But he stops just at the edge of the ferry, immobilized by fear. Rob rushes forward, with Chaz in reserve, pulling Arch out of ·the way. But Buck, the assistant ferryman, pre-empts them all, diving in. Arch, frozen, watches from the deck with the others. Buck resurfaces, but without any sign of Skip. Rob doesn't wait any longer. He pulls off his shoes and dives in. Chaz gets ready to follow suit. The panic mounts. Suddenly:
SKIP'S VOICE: Hi, this what you're looking for?
THEY TURN;: ANGLE CHANGE
ANGLE CHANGE: Skip pulls himself up, dripping, on the other side of the ferry. He holds up the knife and the padded sash beneath his shirt he used to imbed the knife and grins from ear to ear. The others stare, totally freaked. Arch lets go, jumping in the air. Rob and Buck surface, to see as We got 'em! Whoo-ee, did we nail 'em!
ARCH: We got 'em! Whoo-ee, did we nail 'em!
CHAZ: ( as it dawns, to Skip ) April Fools. you crazy jerks. You crazy motherfuckin' jerks. somebody could've gotten hurt out there! Relief descends. Rob isn't laughing. But nobody's more impressed than assistant Buck, still treading water.
BUCK: ( GRINNING )
NIKKI: You maniacs. you almost gave us a heart attack! Kit glowers at them and gives Rob a hand to get out.
ARCH: ( TO CHAZ )
ROB: ( dripping, to Arch and Skip ) I owe you one.
SKIP: ( smiles, to Buck in the water ) How's it goin' out there?
BUCK: That was great!
SKIP: I was really counting on these other turkeys to save my ass.
CHAZ: Oh, too bad. Skip extends a hand to Buck to help him out.
SKIP: Sorry about that. But Buck's in no hurry. The ferryman steps forward.
FERRYMAN: ( unamused, to Buck ) Ok, c'mon, get out. They are approaching the landing dock on the island.
FERRYMAN: Buck, look out
ROB: ( IN DREAD )
FERRYMAN: The ferryman rushes forward to help. For a moment the others are spared the horror of it as the Ferryman's back blocks their view. But then Buck, thrashing in the water, tears himself, loose, screaming and bobbing. up, his head and torso covered in blood, the side of his face and his shoulder hideously deformed. It is awful. It is ghastly. And it is unforgettable.
KIT: ( IN HORROR )
FERRYMAN: Get away from him! Buck is hysterical. The gashes of torn flesh seem to drip from his skull. Seeing Rob and the others, he screams, lunging vainly at· them in agony.
BUCK: They did it. them!
FERRYMAN: ( RESTRAINING HIM )
CONSTABLE POTTER: ( TO ·FERRYMAN )
CONSTABLE POTTER: All right. Let's have it.
MUFFY: What's going on? Sam. what's wrong?
CONSTABLE POTTER: ( IN DISGUST )
MUFFY: No, he's in Sutton Place. Why?
CONSTABLE POTTER: No word from him, or anybody else?
MUFFY: ( STILL PUZZLED )
CONSTABLE POTTER: Just like I thought. . Burned out. Worthless. He steps back onto the shore.
MUFFY: We keep all the keys on the board in the kitchen, but I think there's an extra one underneath the cushion there. She points to the boat seat. Potter is much obliged.
CONSTABLE POTTER: ( to the others, sternly ) I'm glad you're stuck here, all o' you. If there's anvthin' else, or anything happens to Buck. I want to know where to find you. The van moves slowly along a narrow road through the forest. From what we can see of its occupants, the mood is pretty grim. Behind it, the old island pick-up truck follows.
SKIP: These goddamn windows! He starts banging violently on the door, on the window.
SKIP: They've never been fixed.
KIT: Look, Skip, it wasn't your fault. It was an accident. You didn't know.
SKIP: ( BITTER )
ROB: ( SIGHS )
SKIP: Muffy. Nothing bad ever happens to her.
NAN: ( OVERWHELMED )
MUFFY: Well, there's an awful lot to be done with this place.
ARCH: You sound as if you own it. She helps with bags, shepherding them on ahead.
MUFFY: I will, if all goes well. Next month when I turn 21. It's my first- stage inheritance.
HARVEY: ( AMAZED )
NIKKI: ( DRYLY )
CHAZ: Mom, I am home! They all look to see him standing in the entrance to the living room.
ARCH: Yeah, I could get real used to this.
MUFFY: We used to spend our summers here before my mother died.
NAN: It's like a dream.
NIKKI: On a clear day you can see the Kennedys.
CHAZ'S VOICE: ( from the dining room ) Wow, look at this.!
CHAZ: ( in mock awe ) Look! Our very own place settings. with our very own place cards with Ken or Barbie! Outasight!
NAN: ( GIGGLES )
ARCH: ( in the spirit ) And sporks.
HARVEY: ( QUIETLY )
ARCH: And napkins with little Hallmark bunnies! Gee, Muff, you really spared no expense.
MUFFY: ( ENTERING JAUNTILY )
NIKKI: ( ENTERING )
NAN: ( meaningfully, with her Barbie ) I used to have all her outfits.
CHAZ: Don't anybody move! Chaz jumps back from the table, whipping out his videocam to record the moment, and panning them all at · .their respective places.
NIKKI: .if only the choices weren't so limited. God, I'm so ready for a change. Any kind of change.
MUFFY: Well, you know, everything they say about older men? It's true. Kit and Nikki stare at her, open-mouthed.
KIT: Like how much older are we talking about? Twenty-six?
NIKKI: Like how much older are we talking about? Twenty-six?
MUFFY: Add about thirty years.
NIKKI: I don't believe ·you, St. John!
KIT: ( TURNING AWAY )
NIKKI: Come on! ·
MUFFY: It was only a weekend. It's over now. ( beat, shrugs ) I was curious.
KIT: He wasn't married?
MUFFY: ( BLITHELY )
MUFFY: It was quite a weekend. Nikki starts to laugh.
NIKKI: Come to daddy. They all start to laugh now, wickedly, conspiratorially.
NIKKI: Come sit on daddy's knee, little girl. Nikki falls to the floor in hysterics.
KIT: My goodness, daddy, what big
ALL: The better to eat you with, my dear.
SKIP: ( quietly, with deliberation ) The poor boy can say, "Fuck you, Dad. I'm my own person." What is his father going to do? Kick him out of the house? Disinherit him? His life won't have changed that much. He's got nothing to lose.
NAN: His father's love.
SKIP: That's already been lost. Died a long, long time ago.
NAN: ( SOFTLY )
CHAZ: Boy, Muff, you sure know how to make a guy look forward to dessert.
ARCH: Please, God, let it be ding dongs.
NIKKI: St. John hospitality taken to the extreme.
HARVEY: I think it's real friendly. Makes me feel right at home. Everyone starts to sit down at his designated place.
KIT: How friendly will we feel once we've finished with those beans?
ON NAN: As soon as her ass hits the seat, she lets slip an outrageous fart. She springs to her feet, her face turning beet red.
THE GROUP: All conversation stops, each person looking for the guilty party. Nan discreetly sits back down: but again, as soon as her tail meets the chair, another blast escapes her. All eyes are on her as she reaches beneath her and pulls out a whoopee You guys! Everybody laughs.
NAN: You guys! Everybody laughs.
KIT: So it's going to be one of those dinners, huh? Arch is laughing the loudest when suddenly his chair collapses beneath him and he drops sprawling onto the floor.
WIDER: I wonder how Buck is doing?
ROB: I wonder how Buck is doing?
PAUSE: Do you think we should call or something?
NAN: Do you think we should call or something?
MUFFY: ( QUIETLY )
KIT: I think we should change the subject.
ARCH: Well, Harvey's got his job interview all figured out, but what about the rest of us? Anybody know what they're going to be doing come graduation?
NIKKI: Good choice, Arch.
NAN: I can't decide. I'd like to go to graduate school in English. I love the sound of our language. But I'm afraid there's not much future in I mean, what are you' supposed to do with a liberal arts major You fill out a lot of forms, and then some friend of your family gives you a job delivering mail in his ·corporation.
NIKKI: I mean, what are you' supposed to do with a liberal arts major You fill out a lot of forms, and then some friend of your family gives you a job delivering mail in his ·corporation.
MUFFY: You fill out a lot of forms, and then some friend of your family gives you a job delivering mail in his ·corporation.
ARCH: This is really incredible. Look at us. Here we are. privileged, independent, the hope of the future. and most of us still don't know what we're going to do with our lives!
KIT: ( PROUDLY )
ROB: ( EXCITEDLY )
CHAZ: ( EXCITEDLY )
ROB: ( reddens, to Kit ) We can talk about it some other time.
KIT: Why? You had your meeting with your counselor, didn't you?
MUFFY: ( OBSERVANTLY )
ROB: ( STUBBORNLY )
KIT: ( AT MUFFY )
NIKKI: ( LAUGHS )
ROB: He said to forget it. Kit looks up in surprise. They all stare, quieting.
ARCH: Oh, shit, him too? That's what my guy said! An' I said, you're kidding! How can anybody be serious about anything when some moron can steal a bomb or push a button and blow the rest of us right into Mad Max. He wasn't impressed.
ROB: He's right. That's bullshit on parade.
ARCH: Well fuck you. It sounded good at the time. Muffy turns from the sideboard and sets a tray of champagne glasses in the center of the table. There are eight of them. Each one is filled with a pinkish, bubbly liquid. Everybody reaches for a glass.
CHAZ: What is this? Dom Perignon sparkling rose?
HARVEY: It smells like Ripple.
NIKKI: You've outdone yourself again, St. John. The back screen door slams shut o.s. behind Skip, leaving the house. They look up.
ARCH: Who was that?
MUFFY: ( QUIETLY ) ( TENTATIVELY )
NAN: ( TENTATIVELY )
COLLEGE: I cherish all the friends I make.
ARCH: I cherish all the friends I make.
NAN: ( CONTINUING )
KIT: Muffy, anything you want to add to that?
MUFFY: Why me?
NIKKI: Because you're the hostess. Muffy thinks for a moment, then adds.
MUFFY: In his "Life of Johnson" James Boswell said, "We cannot tell the precise moment when friendship is formed. As in filling a vessel drop by drop, there is at last a drop which makes it run over; so in a series of kindnesses, there is at last one which makes the heart run Arch has started to make snoring sounds. MUFFY ( cont. ) So with this toast may our hearts run over and our friendships be They stand unanimously, raise their glasses in agreement, start to drink and spill it all down the front of their shirts. Dribble glasses. Everybody groans.
MUFFY: ( GRINNING MISCHIEVOUSLY )
NAN: Muffy leads Nikki to a narrow, sparse single, popping open the door.
MUFFY: Muffy leads Nikki to a narrow, sparse single, popping open the door.
NIKKI: Oh, great. Quarantine.
MUFFY: ( IMPISHLY )
NIKKI: Another room.
MUFFY: ( SMILES )
NIKKI: I found that out
MUFFY: ( AMUSED )
NIKKI ': Harvey? Mr. Junior Achievement? Oh please. Muffy returns her smile,continuing down the corridor.
ARCH: Hey, all right. ladies, we are qonna have privacy. He turns his collar up on his polo shirt, then eagerly pushes the two beds together. The other door ( to the connecting bathroom ) swings open. Arch's face drops as Chaz walks in, lugging his gear.
CHAZ: ( unloading his gear ). Unless Muffy knows something about us we don't. He blows Arch a kiss, pulling the two beds apart again.
HARVEY: ( to himself; rehearsing ) Don't tell me you've never thought of me in that way, Muffy. I felt a spark between us the very first moment we laid eyes on each other. in Econ 345. Why, just think of it, Muffy. with my talent and your. money. He crosses to the closet with his navy blazer.
HARVEY: ( CONTINUED )
HARVEY: He puzzles, taking down the clipping, putting it down on the dresser as he moves there to put away his rolled socks. He opens the top The same thing. Full of newspaper clippings of awful, fatal car crashes, all circled in the same accusatory red ink.
POV: The same thing. Full of newspaper clippings of awful, fatal car crashes, all circled in the same accusatory red ink.
CHAZ: ( FINALLY )
ARCH: INT. FPONT STAIRCASE - NIGHT Muffy, on her way down to straighten up, passes Rob and Kit on their way up.
MUFFY: INT. NAN'S ROOM ­ NIGHT CLOSE ON the shower head on the bathroom gushing water. Nan is taking a shower. CAMERA DOLLIES BACK slowly out of the bathroom and into the bedroom. O.S. the shower is turned off. All is quiet. Then, very faintly at first, WE HEAR something it sounds like crying. As it grows gradually louder we realize that it is crying a baby crying. Nan appears suddenly in the bathroom doorway. A towel is wrapped around her. She listens. The crying is louder now, but muffled a baby crying for its mother. It seems to come from a large mahogany wardrobe on the other side of the room. Nan tenses, slowly approaohing, then flinging open the wardrobe door.
KIT: INT. NAN'S ROOM ­ NIGHT CLOSE ON the shower head on the bathroom gushing water. Nan is taking a shower. CAMERA DOLLIES BACK slowly out of the bathroom and into the bedroom. O.S. the shower is turned off. All is quiet. Then, very faintly at first, WE HEAR something it sounds like crying. As it grows gradually louder we realize that it is crying a baby crying. Nan appears suddenly in the bathroom doorway. A towel is wrapped around her. She listens. The crying is louder now, but muffled a baby crying for its mother. It seems to come from a large mahogany wardrobe on the other side of the room. Nan tenses, slowly approaohing, then flinging open the wardrobe door.
CLOSE ANGLE: A small cassette recorder plays. The tape runs out. The baby's cries Nan rips out the cassette, and sinks back onto the bed, burying her head in her hands. INT. ROB and KIT'S ROOM - NIGHT Rob and Kit are standing together staring INTO CAMERA. REVERSE to see the object of their attention. Hanging on the wall in front of them is a large oil portrait with the eyes out out. Something is moving behind the canvas ­watching them. Rob steps forward and lifts the painting off the wall. Behind it is an inset bookcase. Sitting on one of the shelves, at the proper height to have lined up with the holes in the portrait, is a child's Felix-the- cat nursery clock. The eyes of the plastic cat move back and forth, like a pendulum marking seconds.
KIT: No answer.
KIT: You still angry with me? About dinner?
ROB: No. I'm sorry. I'm not angry with you. I'm just angry. He leans over, turns off the bedside lamp. and the light in the bathroom comes on. Beat. He gets out of bed and crosses to the bathroom, reaches in and turns off the light. .and the overhead light comes on. Kit starts to laugh and quickly covers her mouth. Rob walks to the door, turns off the overhead .and the bedside lamp comes on again. Kit laughs harder, but still tries to stifle it. Rob shoots her a look, then goes and sits on the edge of the bed. He reaches to turn off the bedside lamp again, then thinks better of it and starts to unscrew the bulb instead.
ROB: ( burning his fingers ) Ouch! Jesus! Kit can't stop herself any longer. She laughs out loud. Rob perseveres, finally unscrewing the bulb enough to plunge the room into Very funny. Kit breaks up laughing again. To her it is funny. And soon Rob is laughing too. He swings his legs up under the covers beside her.
ROB: Very funny. Kit breaks up laughing again. To her it is funny. And soon Rob is laughing too. He swings his legs up under the covers beside her.
MUFFY: ( COLLECTS HERSELF )
ARCH: ( turning down his collar ) Goodnight, Arch. Gently but firmly, she extricates herself, closing the bedroom door behind her.
MUFFY: ( turning down his collar ) Goodnight, Arch. Gently but firmly, she extricates herself, closing the bedroom door behind her.
ARCH: Undaunted, he scuttles down the hall to Rob and Kit's closed door to listen in. He frowns, the slides farther down to Nikki's room, knocks once softly, and enters.
HIS POV: Nikki is already occupied, however, with Chaz. She catches Arch's stare, signalling him to get the hell out.
REVERSE: Arch valorously steps back, closing the door and returning to try Nan. The light underneath her door flicks off, however. The door is also Arch curses, returning to his large but empty room. He slams the door for everybody's benefit.
SKIP: There is no answer, but the breathing continues. Then a sharp rapping sound very near, like a foot striking the wood flooring.
SKIP: Who's there? Pause. No answer. We hear in the darkness the sound of his switchblade clicking open. And then he waits, straining his ears to hear. Finally, Skip reaches into his pocket, puils out his lighter and flicks it on. Something snags him from behind. Skip gasps, helpless, as a thick rope controlled by powerful, shadowed hands tightens around his neck. His knife, dried leaves and lighter cascade to the floor.
ROB: ( hushed, at door ) No answer. He tries her door, but it's locked tight. A beat. Then: ROB ( cont. )
MUFFY'S VOICE: ( UNCERTAINLY )
ROB: You OK?
MUFFY'S VOICE: ( DISTANTLY )
ROB: ( reluctantly, puzzled ) OK. well, goodnight. No response. He turns back for his room, catching sight of Chaz, who has come out of Nikki's room, to investigate, too.
KIT: ( BRISKLY )
ANGLE: Muffy is barefooted, dressed in an old, worn chenille robe. Her hair, normally carefully groomed, is unkempt, wild and stringy about her pale face. Talk about unguarded moments. Her present appearance, is the last way one would ever expect to find Muffy St. She shrinks back from them with a frightened, apologetic smile. Scrambled eggs bubble in the skillet on the burner.
RETURN ANGLE: She shrinks back from them with a frightened, apologetic smile. Scrambled eggs bubble in the skillet on the burner.
MUFFY: I. I was hungry. She bumps against the stove, backing away. She self-consciously runs a hand through her hair. MUFFY ( cont. ) I. I must look a mess. She scuttles out the door to the utility room and the back stairs beyond, leaving the eggs to burn.
ARCH: She backs away from him, scurrying up the stairs.
MUFFY: I. forgot to get dressed.
ARCH: Who made her night?
ARCH: ( always in search of more players ) Where's Skip?
CHAZ: That depends on what he's on. Rob and Kit cross their path, heading down to the water in their swimsuits and overshirts.
NIKKI: You gotta be kidding.
ARCH: ( teasingly, an invitation ) Nan? What about it? Nan watches from the porch, book in hand.
NAN: Oh, no, thanks.
KIT: Rob? What's wrong? I swear it wasn't this cold yesterday . This isn't what she meant, and he knows it.
ROB: I swear it wasn't this cold yesterday . This isn't what she meant, and he knows it.
KIT: Are you giving up?
ROB: ( turning to her; gently ) What about you? What about your future? You're the one with the four .maybe it's crazyyou investing so much energy in me.
KIT: ( QUIETLY )
ROB: ( PROTESTING )
KIT: .only it's not made up. Smiling sadly, he crosses to her, puts his arms around her.
ROB: Great. Do you realize how perfectly unmatched we are?
KIT: It's made up about one thing though.
ROB: Yeah? What's that? She looks up and kisses him softly.
ROB: Will you feel the same about me a year from now? Two years, five years from now? She takes his hand and leads him down the pier and into the boathouse.
ROB: Skip! You sonofabitch! But there's no response, Skip's body unmoving on the self-powered skiff which continues bobbing out to sea.
ROB: starts to wonder whether it really is a joke. He hurries forward, plunging 'into the water to reach the boat.
ROB: Skip. Skip! But it's too far and getting farther, and the waves are too strong.
CHAZ: ( commentary while he tapes ) Respectable young Quaker couple returning after quiet afternoon of nonviolent sex.
ARCH: ( CALLING )
ROB: Where's Skip? Anybody seen him?
NIKKI: Who wants to know?
ROB: Goddammit, can't you give me a straight answer! They sit up with the force. Nan comes out on the porch, hearing .
KIT: ( FRANTICALLY )
CHAZ: Well, if it was Skip.
KIT: I saw his face!
ROB: ( DEMANDINGLY )
MUFFY: ( noticing their distress ) Something wrong? Rob rushes by her.
ARCH: Wait! I'll go with you!
CHAZ: Me too!
ARCH: ( aloud: for Skip ) Hey, asshole!
CHAZ: Wait a minute! Look at this! He has found on the little pebbled beach beside the dock, Skip's switchblade. It is in pieces. There's blood on the broken blade.
CHAZ: This was Skip's.
ARCH: What do you think? That guy on the ferry?
ROB: I don't know. I don't know what to think.
ARCH: I say we go looking for him, him or Skip. One of them's bound to still be around. somewhere.
CHAZ: You mean split up?
ROB: Let's not take any chances. He was. He was pretty big.
ARCH: No sucker's taken me yet. He rips a loose board off the dock for a club.
NAN: I know why you're avoiding me.
MUFFY: ( ASTONISHED )
NAN: Oh? The tape just got there? You know very well. my abortion! She comes apart, in tears. Muffy stares, uncomprehending. NAN ( cont. ) I thought you wanted to be friends. you think you can play with people's feelings just because you're rich and can do what you want. Well, you can't.! She rushes out the rear door. Muffy tries to recover, confused. She continues on to the back entrance to the kitchen.
HARVEY: ( SHEEPISHLY )
NIKKI: Harvey? No kidding'? Maybe that explains your clothes.
MUFFY: ( NERVOUSLY )
NIKKI: Oh, c'mon. Muffy exits hurriedly, upset.
ARCH: Hey, shithead! chickendick!. yeah, you! Skip! He moves deeper and deeper into the forest.
LOW ANGLE: Up ahead on the pathway a thick, black viper slithers out of the undergrowth, stops, sensing Arch's presence, and coils itself against his approach.
WIDER: as Arch stalks forward, not looking at the ground.
LOW ANGLE: ( THUNDERING )
ARCH: ( THUNDERING )
WIDER: as Arch hears a noise. He stops. SOMEONE ELSE is here with him, very He turns and moves back along the trail, peering into the dense foliage on either side.
ARCH: He turns and moves back along the trail, peering into the dense foliage on either side.
LOW ANGLE: as he steps over the snake again going back the other way.
WIDER: He stops again, looks all around him, then turns once more and starts to move very slowly with short little steps back in the other He is edging closer and closer to the snake. He is bound to step on it this time. The snake coils itself to strike. Arch's foot comes down just missing it, less than six inches away, when suddenly the ground seems to move. A noose springs up, tightens around his ankle, and Arch is lifted into the air upside down, swinging wildly, dropping his club. Now the viper strikes, and Arch sees it. He is shrieking with horror as he tries to bat the creature away from him. But he keeps swinging into it, and the snake keeps striking at him, trying to find an Suddenly a long, gleaming blade ENTERS FRAME and chops the snake in Arch looks up, his face white and frozen into a mask of sheer terror, no longer able even to scream
ARCH: LOW ANGLE
LOW ANGLE: He is edging closer and closer to the snake. He is bound to step on it this time. The snake coils itself to strike. Arch's foot comes down just missing it, less than six inches away, when suddenly the ground seems to move. A noose springs up, tightens around his ankle, and Arch is lifted into the air upside down, swinging wildly, dropping his club. Now the viper strikes, and Arch sees it. He is shrieking with horror as he tries to bat the creature away from him. But he keeps swinging into it, and the snake keeps striking at him, trying to find an Suddenly a long, gleaming blade ENTERS FRAME and chops the snake in Arch looks up, his face white and frozen into a mask of sheer terror, no longer able even to scream
KIT: ( calling to him ) No Skip? Chaz now comes out of the woods on the other side of the yard.
CHAZ: No luck.
ROB: ( TO CHAZ )
CHAZ: He isn't with you?
NIKKI: I don't like this. I definitely don't think I like this.
KIT: I think it's about time we called the police. The screen door BANGS again. They look up. It's Muffy. She returns their stares stiffly, without expression . She holds flowers cut with hand shears.
MUFFY: Eight-two-four-eight. Constable Potter has an office at his home.
KIT: ( TO ROB )
MUFFY: I didn't know what kind anybody would like so I just. got them Let me help.
KIT: Let me help.
MUFFY: ( CAREFULLY )
KIT: Rob? No, we haven 't been able to get through to the mainland yet. Muffy eases. Kit turns the tap to fill the kettle. The pipes begin to BANG. The tap sputters and coughs out a spurt of brown water before running dry.
L1UFFY: Oh. ·the main. it's probably broken.
KIT: ( STUNNED )
NIKKI: What's happening.
KIT: No water.
NIKKI: It happens sometime. But there's still the well all the island homes have some kind of pump. or well. for emergencies. Nikki reaches for a large flashlight beam.
MUFFY: It happens sometime. But there's still the well all the island homes have some kind of pump. or well. for emergencies. Nikki reaches for a large flashlight beam.
NIKKI: Jesus. I'll go. Just point me in the right direction.
HARVEY: ( GALLANTLY )
MUFFY: ( bearing up under Kit's stare ) I'm not worried. I'm sure those two. Skip and Art. they're just up to some kind of stupid trick . . . Kit moves out of the kitchen uneasily.
HARVEY: ( UNCOMFORTABLY )
NIKKI: ( SEEING )
HARVEY: Here, let me do it. I've probably had more experience than you.
NIKKI: You mean, back home on the farm?
HARVEY: I know you think I'm a hick, but I'd like to change your mind about that, if you'd only give me the chance.
NIKKI: Because, I'd really like to plow your field.
HARVEY: Because, I'd really like to plow your field.
NIKKI: ( SMILES" IMPRESSED )
HARVEY: Aw, crap.
NIKKI: What happened?
HARVEY: I lost the bucket.
NIKKI: Hal. The rope was rotten, any fool coulda seen that.
HARVEY: Hal. The rope was rotten, any fool coulda seen that.
NIKKI: You didn't.
HARVEY: Here, shine your light down so I can get a fix on it. She rises on her toes, flashing the powerful beam down the dank hole. Harvey bends over to look. A rotted piece of the well cover breaks off in his hand. He lurches forward.
HARVEY: Oh. oh, Jesus! He slams back in ashen horror.
NIKKI: ( STARTLED}
( STARTLED}: Stay back! Don't look!
HARVEY: Stay back! Don't look!
NIKKI: I'm a big girl now. I think I ·can handle a few spiders and
HARVEY: She should've listened to him.
NIKKI: She should've listened to him.
HER POV: Nan's body lies twisted and jammed among the slime. Her dress is torn, revealing a white breast with veins of blood streaming across it and into the water. Next to her, Arch's severed head gapes up in a rictus grin, joined in its leer by Skip's decapitated head.
NIKKI: It's like the very guts have been torn out of her. She screams, stumbling back.
ROB: ( BREATHLESS )
KIT: ( ASHEN )
NIKKI: ( STILL PANICKED )
NIKKI: ( COLD FEAR )
ROB: ( closing the well cover ) We can't get away. Everyone back into the house . Now.
KIT: It's okay, Nikki. With the others. they were outdoors. But we're inside now, and we're safe.
NIKKI: ( QUIETLY )
CHAZ: ( HIMSELF UNNERVED )
HARVEY: Muffy, where do you keep your guns?
MUFFY: ( BLANKLY )
MUFFY: ( handing Nikki the glass ) NIKKI , Oh, God! Not the water!
NIKKI ,: Oh, God! Not the water!
MUFFY: It's all right. It's Perrier. Suddenly the phone rings O. S. They all look toward the living room.
ROB: ( DESPERATELY )
POTTER: What are you talking about?
ROB: ( PLEADING ) ( LISTENS )
ROB: ( FINALLY )
ROB: ( anything, but jubilant ) He's on his way. We're supposed to wait here. to stay together.
CHAZ: What about the ferryman?
ROB: It isn't him. They've been together all day.
CHAZ: I don't understand. They look at each other ominously.
KIT: I don't understand. They look at each other ominously.
ROB: ( STANDING )
KIT: .doesn't understand. She glances at the walls for more pictures. Muffy enters suddenly, interrupting her. Kit startles, turning. They face each other.
MUFFY: ( UNNATURALLY COMPOSED )
KIT: ( NERVOUSLY )
MUFFY: Good idea. Sometimes. with the tides. it can take someone all night to get here from the mainland. and even then, sometimes they don't make it.
HARVEY: ( peering out the window ) What's taking him so long?
KIT: ( quietly; without conviction ) It could be the tides.
CHAZ: Wait a minute. Aren't we supposed to be staying together? Where're Muffy and Rob?
KIT: Rob's checking the back of the house.
CHAZ: And Muffy?
NIKKI: She's been acting less than normal anyway.
KIT: ( picking up on it ) What do you mean?
NIKKI: You mean all day and you haven't noticed?
HARVEY: Well, who isn't?
NIKKI: .and those nurse's shoes.
CHAZ: What nurse's shoes?
NIKKI: The clodhoppers she's been wearing today. crepe soles. It's as though some common nerve of suspicion has been touched. They all stir.
HARVEY: She was arguing with Nan in the hall, before you and Rob. before you came back alone. They turn full attention on him.
HARVEY: About something Nan found in her room.
CHAZ: ( EMBARRASSED )
HARVEY: ( EMBARRASSED )
NIKKI: I found somethin"g in my room, too She reaches into her bag and pulls out the black rubber bondage hood.
NIKKI: .only I don't think it was intended for me .
CHAZ: ( SARCASTIC )
HARVEY: ( to Chaz; defending Nikki ) And What did you find?
CHAZ: I didn't find anything.
HARVEY: We're supposed to believe that?
CHAZ: That's right.
HARVEY: What about me?
CHAZ: What's your little secret?
HARVEY: ( EVASIVELY )
CHAZ: Oh, come on, sport. I walked in on you last night , and you were acting like your ass was on fire.
HARVEY: It wasn't anything. Just some clippings. of some car accidents.
CHAZ: ( INSINUATING )
HARVEY: No! Who hasn't been in a car accident? It's a common thing.
CHAZ: I haven't. There is a slight pause. Rob comes into the living room, holding a flashlight and stands just inside the doorway. The others shift uncomfortably.
NIKKI: ( QUIETLY )
KIT: Stop it! Just stop it all of you!
MUFFY: I'm going upstairs.
ROB: Muffy? We should all stay together.
MUFFY: This is my house.
NIKKI: ( FINALLY )
HARVEY: As long as we all stay within shouting distance of each other.
NIKKI: ( TO CHAZ )
ROB: I'm goinq to find the way up to the attic.
KIT: I'm sure we can watch for the Constable better from up there. Kit hesitates.
ROB: I'm sure we can watch for the Constable better from up there. Kit hesitates.
HARVEY: It's all right. I can keep watch on the stairs. Rob ho1ds out his hand to her. She takes it and they walk together toward the stairs.
CHAZ: Nikki, come on.
NIKKI: What do you mean, Nikki, come on? Don't give me any of this Nikki, come on.
CHAZ: What are you doing?
NIKKI: Look, stay if you like. Lock your door. Dig a trench. Hang out. But once I leave this place, I'm never coming back. She walks out the door, and Chaz follows her to.
CHAZ: ( catching up to her ) We're all supposed to stay together here.
NIKKI: Yeah, that's been real effective. She goes into.
CHAZ: So what are you going to do? Just waltz on down to the pier. By yourself. Check your bag with the porter. Then wait for an ocean liner to happen by and pick you up. Is that it?
NIKKI,: ( pushing past him ) I can't stay here any longer. She goes back out into the hallway. Chaz follows.
CHAZ: What if the Constable never even comes?
NIKKI: Then I'll swim all the way back to the mainland. I can be strong if I have to.
CHAZ: Look, just relax
NIKKI: Three people are dead and you're telling me to relax?
CHAZ: Nikki, now just hold on a minute, and look at me. Look at me. She stops and looks at him.
NIKKI: Nice image.
CHAZ: ( BEAT )
NIKKI: Very funny, Chaz.
CHAZ: ( MUFFLED )
NIKKI: Don't be a jerk.
CHAZ: ( MUFFLED )
NIKKI,: Take that thing off.
CHAZ: ( MUFFLED )
NIKKI: Get out of here. She pushes him and he falls backward across the bed.
CHAZ: ( MUFFLED )
CHAZ: ( MUFFLED )
NIKKI: ( NOTICING )
NIKKI: ( looking at his crotch again ) What is this? Show and tell?
KIT: No one's been up here in years. Rob crosses to the garret windows overlooking the sound.
KIT: Can you see him?
ROB: NO. There must not be a light on the boat.
KIT: Or. he's chosen not to use it.
ROB: Kit? He said something else on the phone, about Muffy.
KIT: He said not to trust anybody. That's why we were to stay together. No one was to be left alone with anyone else. Then he said, especially not with Muffy.
ROB: He said not to trust anybody. That's why we were to stay together. No one was to be left alone with anyone else. Then he said, especially not with Muffy.
KIT: So that's why you let her go upstairs?
ROB: That's why I let her go.
KIT: ( BEAT )
ROB: I don't know. He wouldn't explain it.
KIT: But that's ridiculous.
ROB: Is it? He's known her longer than we have. He sweeps the flashlight back toward the stairs.
KIT: Rob, wait a minute. What's that?
ROB: She takes the flashlight from him and aims it on something near the doorthe Barbie and Ken dolls from the previous night's dinner.
ROB: It's just the dolls.
KIT: She's been up here.
ROB: She moves toward them while Rob stays by the windows looking out. As she gets closer to the dolls, however, Kit realizes that they have not just been stuck there haphazardly.
KIT: ( ALARMED )
HER POV: of the dolls as the flashlight moves across them, slowly revealing them one by one. The last to be seen are a Barbie and the heads of two Kens stuck in a bowl of water. ROB AND KlT staring at them, frightened and astonished.
ROB: ( LOSING IT )
KIT: ( LOSING IT )
ROB: It's Arch and Skip and Nan.
KIT: He takes the flashlight from her and reveals two more: a Barbie and a Ken lying next to each other with no clothes on, both of them splattered with bright red nail polish.
ROB: He takes the flashlight from her and reveals two more: a Barbie and a Ken lying next to each other with no clothes on, both of them splattered with bright red nail polish.
ROB: What are these other two? Suddenly the room is flooded with light. Rob turns sharply and sees outside the window the Constable's flare hanging in the night sky.
ROB: He's here! O.S. there is a PISTOL SHOT from downstairs. Kit screams.
ROB: Come on! He jumps to his feet, grabs hold of her hand and pulls her with him out of the attic.
ROB: .while Kit runs down the hall to Nikki's room and flings open the door.
KIT: She isn't there. Kit backs into the hallway. Downstairs O.S. she can hear Rob moving about, calling for Harvey, but up here all is quiet and threatening. She hurries silently down to Chaz' room, opens the door and steps INT. CHAZ' ROOM - NIGHT It is dark again in here, but the video camera is still operating. Kit closes the door behind her and leans forward, barely whispering.
KIT: Chaz?. Nikki?. She turns on the light and sees the bed, both beds: they are drenched in blood. Kit reaches for the doorknob. It comes off in her hand.
KIT: She's frantically pounding on the door and trying to jam the doorknob back in, to get it to work. There's a NOISE outside the window. She turns aghast. Suddenly the door flies open.
ROB: ( ENTERING )
KIT: Rob, what about Muffy?
ROB: Forget her!
KIT: ( STOPPING HIM )
KIT: ( KNOCKING )
ROB: ( pulling her away ) Let's go. Rounding the corner to the shadowy back stairs, Rob suddenly bumps into something, someone there. He screams aloud, dropping his It is Harvey. His body dangles from the rafters high above the top of the rear stairs, a thick rope around his neck. Now Rob has become unnerved, and it is Kit's turn to take the lead.
KIT: This way! And they head back toward the main staircase.
ROB: ( yanking her away ) Forget the doors! Within moments they have crossed the back yard and disappeared into the brush leading down to the water.
ROB: ( in guarded approach ) Constable. Mr. Potter? No answer. The silence is chilling. They proceed out onto the dock. They come to the boat.
ROB: ( WHISPERING )
KIT: Maybe he went on to the house. Rob unlashes the mooring, grabbing hold of the line to pull the boat in. It won't budge, the line snagged in the water where it dips in. Rob tugs harder, freeing something to the surface.
CLOSE ANGLE: It is Constable Potter, his body turning once before sinking again under its tethered weights. An animal cries out behind them. Rob wastes no more time, pulling the rope and the boat quickly toward them. They jump in. There is a flashlight in the toolbox. Rob grabs it, shining it onto the controls. But there's no key in the ignition, and no other way to start it.
ROB: Shit. no key! Kit, meanwhile, picks up the LETTER that's lying on the bottom of the He turns. KIT ( cont. ) She presses it into his hands. He shines the flashlight.
KIT: He turns. KIT ( cont. ) She presses it into his hands. He shines the flashlight.
CLOSER ANGLE: Its waterstained, but still legible. The letterhead reads, 'STATE HOSPITAL FOR THE CRIMINALLY INSANE,' and it is dated 'MARCH 31,' addressed to Potter, and reads:
RETURN ANGLE: ".Pursuant to our previous communication, please be advised that the patient under discussion has still not been found and returned to custody, and it now believed to be attempting to return to her home in your jurisdiction. If encountered, exercise extreme caution and notify us immediately, as Miss St. John has ·been a patient here for three years and is still considered incorrigibly unstable and extremely Kit looks up, frantic.
ROB: ".Pursuant to our previous communication, please be advised that the patient under discussion has still not been found and returned to custody, and it now believed to be attempting to return to her home in your jurisdiction. If encountered, exercise extreme caution and notify us immediately, as Miss St. John has ·been a patient here for three years and is still considered incorrigibly unstable and extremely Kit looks up, frantic.
KIT: Miss .St. John? What's it talking about? Muffy hasn't been in any state mental institution for the last three years she's been at I don't know. but we've gotta get this boat started.
ROB: I don't know. but we've gotta get this boat started.
KIT: The house. Didn't Muffy say there was another key back in the kitchen?
ROB: The house. Didn't Muffy say there was another key back in the kitchen?
KIT: ( IN DREAD )
ROB: We've got no choice.
KIT: I know.
ROB: Rob, I really don't want to go back there.
PAUSE: Rob, I really don't want to go back there.
KIT: Rob, I really don't want to go back there.
ROB: Rob, I really don't want to go back there.
KIT: Rob, I really don't want to go back there.
ROB: I know.
KIT: Another pause. Neither one is making the move to go.
ROB: I'd have you stay here, but
KIT: ( BEAT )
ROB: ( BEAT )
KIT: ( BEING BRAVE )
ROB: Let's go.
KIT: Let's go.
ROB: Let's go.
KIT: Let's go.
ROB: Let's go. Brief pause, then he turns to go.
ROB: They move slowly off the dock.
KIT: Rob, look! The doors. They've been closed. Sure enough, the doors they come out by minutes ago, the ones they didn't stop to close, are now shut tight.
ROB: Come on. They move stealthily through the bushes around to the side of the house. They stop.
ROB: He is pointing toward the open basement window across a thirty foot space of clear lawn.
ROB: That's how we're going in. Kit swallows hard. She nods.
ROB: Are you with me? They break from their cover and run, keeping low, to the side of the house. Rob peers through the window into the darkness inside , pushes the transom all the way open, and then drags himself through on his INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT He drops to the floor, turning to give Kit a hand. She enters the same, dusting herself off next to him. Rob turns on the flashlight, using it cautiously.
ROB: ( moving through darkness ) The stairs. Where are the stairs?.
KIT: What's that? They pause, hearing DRIPPING SOUNDS in the darkness , comi ng from the depths of the utility room. Rob leads the way, cautiously, toward the sound.
REVERSE ANGLE: Kit's eyes widen in growing horrow. Rob turns the beam toward the stains that track across the floor, following them.
KIT: ( FEARFULLY )
KIT: Muffy's clothes.
ROB: ( PUZZLED )
KIT: ( an urgent whisper ) She gets him to turn the beam back to the wall where she is. She helps train it on what she saw.
KIT: Oh, god. oh no!. He doesn't yet understand.
KIT: .the picture of the girls in the study. the letter. what the Constable was trying to tell you. It's not Muffy it's her twin sister, Buffy! She has a twin sister! Rob's eyes have a glazed look. They are fixed somewhere else.
KIT: Rob, don't you see?
KIT: ( HUSHED )
ROB: Pull it away.
KIT: ( too frightened to move ) Pull it away! They advance together on the painting, Rob keeping his flashlight on the eyes the entire time. Kit slowly reaces out, lifts the painting from the wall and drops it, jumping back. just as MUFFY'S HEAD rolls forward from a shelf behind the painting, right into Kit's lap! Kit screams as she bobbles the head in her hands like a hot potato, trying to get rid of it. Suddenly a loud NOISE slams at the basement window. Rob grabs Kit, covering her mouth and snapping off .the flashlight. The head falls to the. floor at their feet. They turn.
ROB: Pull it away! They advance together on the painting, Rob keeping his flashlight on the eyes the entire time. Kit slowly reaces out, lifts the painting from the wall and drops it, jumping back. just as MUFFY'S HEAD rolls forward from a shelf behind the painting, right into Kit's lap! Kit screams as she bobbles the head in her hands like a hot potato, trying to get rid of it. Suddenly a loud NOISE slams at the basement window. Rob grabs Kit, covering her mouth and snapping off .the flashlight. The head falls to the. floor at their feet. They turn.
THEIR POV: .just in time to see the window they entered being nailed shut from the outside. All else they can make out are Buffy's hands and her tell-tale nurse shoes. Then these two move of sight around the outside of the house.
BASEMENT: Rob clicks on the beam in the direction they went and sees the stairs. They race to them, up them, the door to the pantry is not locked. It gives way under Rob's pressure.
ROB: The boat key. it's gotta be here. His flashlight sweeps the walls of shelves. Suddenly, Buffy is at the kitchen door. Though the door in locked, there's no bolt or chain to fully secure it. The knob RATTLES furiously under Buffy's grip, the door SHUDDERS. Rob spots a walk-in cupboard. He hurries to it. Kit gropes along the shelves, searching the objects hanging along the distant wall.
KITCHEN DOOR: A long, ugly-looking knife blade slips in through the crack in the door. Buffy is using it to try to pry open the door.
CUPBOARD: Rob opens the door. Success. His beam falls on the key board on the inner wall.
ROB: Kit. I He steps in, following his beam into the darkness. The cupboard door SLAMS shut behind him. He turns, trapped.
KITCHEN: Kit spins, crying out as she sees:
HER POV: The shadowed figure of BUFFY, barefooted, disheveled, in a smock, dagger in hand. She advances, breathing heavily.
KIT: stumbles back desperately.
KIT: INT. CUPBOARD Rob is desperately trying to break out, but the door won't open.
ROB: Kit! Let me out! Let me out of here! Kit!! He is kicking the door, hurling himself at the door, but all to no effect. He barely has room to maneuver.
ROB: ( POUNDING FUTILELY )
ROB: Kit! I love you!
KIT: Buffy?. please, we didn't mean any harm. we're leaving. we just want to go home. please. please. Buffy raises the dagger in hand.
ROB: ( for all he's worth ) Kit! I love you! I love you, Kit! A man's HAND reaches out from the side, lightly touching Rob's shoulder. Rob jumps, turning.
ANGLE: It is Buck, standing practically right beside him, staring at Rob. His face is the same bloody, hideous mess it was the day before, after the Rob screams.
BUCK: I love you too, babe. Rob swings at him, but only succeeds in smashing his knuckles against the door. Buck grabs him and violently plants a kiss on his cheek.
KIT: No. Oh, God. and Buffy strikes. The knife jabs into the door, close to Kit's head. Kit gasps, momentarily spared. She pushes apart the double doors and stumbles back into.
KIT: ( LOOKING AROUND )
KIT: ( wrought with emotion ) Oh, fuck you!! Fuck you, you guys!! Suddenly everyone in the room comes to life, roaring with laughter.
ROB: Kit! ! Still frightened and confused, Rob hasn't put it together yet. He runs out of the kitchen.
ROB: The group laughs louder at the sight of him. Buck walks up behind Rob and claps him on the shoulder. Rob jumps and screams involuntarily. The group laughs louder still.
MUFFY: You guys are really terrific. I love you all. And I thank you from the bottom of my heart for being such good sports.
ROB: ( STILL SHAKEN )
MUFFY: Rob, you and Kit, you two were the best. You figured it all out. The clues really worked.
ROB: What clues?
KIT: What's this all about? And don't anyone say "April Fool's" or I'll smack them in the teeth.
MUFFY: How about if I told you it was the script for a weekend special that's going to help me keep this house. Rob and Kit stare, mystified.
MUFFY: ( SMILING )
ROB: ( TO OTHERS )
ARCH: Don't look at me!
NIKKI: We all got sucked in just as bad as you!
MUFFY: Once they were killed off, yes. Everybody had to cooperate. Otherwise, none of it would have worked!
ROB: So I guess there's no crazy twin sister Buffy?
MUFFY: Oh, there's a crazy twin all right, but his name isn't Buffy.
NIKKI: His name? Muffy smiles, directing attention toward "cousin" Skip.
CHAZ: He's your brother?!
KIT: He's your brother?!
ARCH: You bastard, you were in on the whole deal, too.
SKIP: ( PROTESTING ) ( INTRODUCING )
MUFFY: ( INTRODUCING )
BUCK: Here, catch. Arch bobbles the head nervously. The others laugh.
BUCK: Just some old props I redressed with the help of photographs Muffy sent me.
NIKKI: It sure fooled me.
ARCH: ( TO SKIP )
CONSTABLE POTTER: ( CRITICALLY )
KIT: ( to the Constable ) Which means, I guess, that you're no constable either.
MUFFY: Kit Graham, meet my Uncle Frank St. John of St. John et Freres, Wall Uncle Frank smiles and waves at Kit, but Harvey steps right over to him and starts pumping his hand.
HARVEY: Hi! Harvey "Hal" Edison, Jr. Pleased to meet you, sir.
MUFFY: Usually we don't even see Uncle Frank in the summer, he's so busy. But this time he made an exception.
UNCLE FRANK: I haven't had this much fun since my Hasty pudding Show sophomore year at Harvard. God, lowe you kids!
FERRYMAN CAL: ( EAGERLY )
MUFFY: Cal's our regular ferryman between the mainland and the islands around here. but I thought he was up to the dramatic challenge.
NIKKI: We have been had.
ROB: You're lucky you didn't get yourself killed.
MUFFY: ( LAUGHING )
UNCLE FRANK: Otherwise, even Lloyd's of London won't cover you.
MUFFY: .And I regret that, well, some of those fake clues I planted in the bedrooms I guess were taken too seriously. I'm sorry about She avoids looking at Nan so as not to draw attention to her. MUFFY ( cont. ) But we had fun, didn't we? I mean, come on. She starts passing .out chilled champagne bottles to the men to open, and setting up glasses on a sideboard. MUFFY ( cont. ) I know I'll never forget this weekend for as long as I live.
ARCH: You're telling me. Man, when I was swinging around out there in the woods, I nearly crapped my pants.
CAL: What do you mean, nearly? I was there, remember? Silence. Arch turns red.
CHAZ: ( QUIETLY )
ARCH: ( BEAT; STAMMERING )
UNCLE FRANK: ( GOOD-NATUREDLY )
ARCH: Great ham.
BUCK: Great eggs.
CHAZ: ( TEASING )
UNCLE FRANK: Well, if the food's any indication, it's already half-way there.
SKIP: Pass the toxic wastes, please. Uncle Frank frowns at Skip as Cal enters.
CAL: ( PLEASANTLY )
ROB: Boy, what a difference being alive makes.
KIT: ( TURNS; SOFTLY )
ROB: I do.
KIT: ( BEAT )
ROB: I think it is. I'm going to try. He takes her by the hand and gazes at her.
ROB: But if I make it or not, no matter what happens, we'll be together? You and me?
KIT: ( QUIETLY )
ROB: ( HUGGING HER )
MUFFY: Where's Nikki?
KIT: I don't know. Too much champagne? o.s. they hear a muffled cry.
NIKKI: ( STILL GASPING )
UNCLE FRANK: I'll make a full and glowing report to your father tomorrow so he can draw up the deed along with the other trust papers for Wednesday's signing. I'm so proud of you.
MUFFY: Oh, Uncle Frank, he's been a great help this weekend, really. Let me get him out here so you can
UNCLE FRANK: I've already spoken with him. The screen door opens, and Rob steps out onto the porch. He comes over to them, but does not butt into their conversation, and Uncle Frank just keeps going as if Rob weren't even there. UNCLE FRANK ( cont. ) His conduct and his academic performance remain inexcusable. He knows your father can't be expected to entrust him with anything until he shows some signs of responsibility and initiative.
ROB: ( embarrassed to be overhearing ) Excuse me. He turns and walks back into the house. O.S. a horn honking.
UNCLE FRANK: Come on! Let's go! Cal is alone behind the wheel of the pickup. Skip walks casually up to the van, then pointedly turns away and heads over to the pickup instead. Uncle Frank scowls.
KIT: Well, I hate to say it I still ought to kill you but thanks.
UNCLE FRANK: Come on. If time is money, we're losing a fortune. Nikki now runs out followed closely by Harvey. They say their quick farewells and move along to the waiting vehicles. Harvey discreetly opts to ride in the pickup, while Nikki climbs aboard the van, passing Chaz who just glares at her. He knows. Finally Nan comes out of the house. With a curt nod to Muffy, she heads on toward the van when.
MUFFY: She hurries to catch up with her.
MUFFY: Let me say again how sorry I am. It wasn't intended.
NAN: And now all is forgiven. I played along, didn't I? What's done is I've learned a lot, Muffy, I really have. I suppose I should say thank you, but I don't think I would be able to without it sounding false. So I'll just say goodbye. ( beat; an afterthought ) Thanks for showing me your house. She turns and crosses to the van and climbs aboard. The others callout their last goodbyes. Muffy waves, and then they are gone and Muffy turns and walks forlornly back into her house.
UNCLE FRANK: Cal, I want to thank you personally. You've been a real sport about Aw, it was fun.
CAL: Aw, it was fun.
UNCLE FRANK: I know you've had your eye on that p1ace ever since we were kids. And I'm sure we could make a deal with you. I know you haven't been spending your money on anything else all these years. But. this time it just isn't in the cards.
CAL: It's still in the family.
UNCLE FRANK: Yes, that's the way. He moves on. Others are passing them now. Chaz stops and wags his finger at Cal.
CHAZ: This time, no funny business.
CHAZ: ( BEAT )
NIKKI: ( QUIETLY )
NIKKI: Chaz, I'm sorry.
CHAZ: Why? What do we mean to each other anyway?
NIKKI: More than this a couple of days ago.
CHAZ: ( SMILES SADLY )
NIKKI: ( TENDERLY )
CHAZ: I'll tell you what I've learned from all this. I'm tired of having one fling after another. I don't want any more of that. I want a Chaz? Will you be my boyfriend? He looks at her, slowly softening. Yes, he will. Rob turns away from Skip now, steps over and surveys the quiet group.
NIKKI: I'll tell you what I've learned from all this. I'm tired of having one fling after another. I don't want any more of that. I want a Chaz? Will you be my boyfriend? He looks at her, slowly softening. Yes, he will. Rob turns away from Skip now, steps over and surveys the quiet group.
ROB: Some party, huh?
ARCH: ( REFLECTIVELY )
SKIP: ( FROWNS )
ARCH: Well, it's like pranks really piss people off. It unleashes things, you know? Makes any kind of behavior possible, and we accept it.
NIKKI: When anything g.oes, everything goes.
CHAZ: What really amazes me is how easy we made it for her. Everyone was just out for himself. We could've stopped Muffy cold if we'd only stuck together, if we'd only worked like a team.
ROB: What really amazes me is how easy we made it for her. Everyone was just out for himself. We could've stopped Muffy cold if we'd only stuck together, if we'd only worked like a team.
CHAZ: Yeah, she really got us good.
SKIP: Well, I know what I'd do, if I wasn't her brother.
NIKKI: ( almost without thinking ) Go back and give her a taste of her own medicine, that's what we should do. Nikki steps. Leeks up, hearing herself. Skip returns the stare.
SKIP: ( shrugs, smiling ) Did I say anything? The others look at each other, a beat, registering.
ARCH: Go back and scare the shit outta her for a change? Outrageous!
CHAZ: Go back and scare the shit outta her for a change? Outrageous!
NIKKI: She sure wouldn't be expecting it.!
HARVEY: ( EXCLUDING HIMSELF )
ROB: ( stepping into the fray ) Harvey's right. ( to them all ) Look, what're you talking about? We've had our fun. Now we got work to Yeah. Enough's enough. At least for me anyway.
ARCH: Yeah. Enough's enough. At least for me anyway.
CHAZ: Well, I kinda like the idea and I don't have work to get back to. She squares her shoulders.
KIT: Well, I kinda like the idea and I don't have work to get back to. She squares her shoulders.
ROB: ( looks up, in surprise ) Muffy can dish it out. It might be interesting to see if she can take All right! A real catfight!
KIT: ( DECIDEDLYL
( DECIDEDLYL: Muffy can dish it out. It might be interesting to see if she can take All right! A real catfight!
CHAZ: All right! A real catfight!
ROB: ( open-mouthed at her ) I don't believe you.
KIT: ( PROVOCATIVELY )
NIKKI: ( whoops, turning ) Buck, got any spare professional tricks you could throw our way! Buck looks up, confused, only now plugging in.
KIT: So how many does that make us?
SKIP: ( EXCLUDING HIMSELF )
NAN: ( GENTEELLY )
ROB: ( EMPHATICALLY )
CHAZ: ( one of the four ) Cal, we want to get back to the island.
KIT: Cal, we want to get back to the island.
FERRYMAN: Now? You just left
KIT: I know.
FERRYMAN: [PONDERING )
[PONDERING ): .Well, not in this.
MUFFY: ( SLEEPILY ) INTERCUT WITH:
SKIP: ( CHEERILY )
MUFFY: ( grumpily, stirring ) What'd you forget now?
SKIP: Nothing. Just calling to tell you the party's not over. She moans.
MUFFY: I know. The clean-up's going to take Clara and me at least a week.
SKIP: No, I mean, some of the gang's planning on coming back to give you some of your own medicine.
CU MUFFY: Coming awake.
MUFFY: You're kidding.
SKIP: Does a bear shit in the woods?
MUFFY: Those bastards.
SKIP: Hey, they're your friends.
MUFFY: Which ones?
SKIP: That wouldn't be very sporting if I told you, would it?
MUFFY: ( INSISTENT )
SKIP: Rob and Kit and Nikki and Chaz.
MUFFY: Figures. Thanks.
SKIP: Well, Uncle Frank told me about his recommendations. So, I didn't want you to think there were any hard feelings.
MUFFY: ( AFFECTIONATELY )
SKIP: ( BEAT )
MUFFY: I'll try not to act too surprised when they arrive.
SKIP: I love you, Sis.
MUFFY: You too, goofball. Skip hangs up.
SKIP: I beg your pardon? ANGLE WIDENS to include Arch, who has been standing beside Skip the entire time.
ARCH: It was even your idea.
SKIP: A petty consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.
ARCH: Bullshit. St. John blood is thicker than water, that's what you mean.
SKIP: ( ARCHLY SARCASTIC )
HARVEY: Well, can I look you up in a couple of months? Maybe you could arrange a job interview for me.
UNCLE FRANK: Sure, sure . ( reaches into his pocket ) Here's my card.
HARVEY: ( TAKING IT )
HARVEY: Hey, wait a minute! There's no phone number here! No address! No Too late. Uncle Frank is driving away. He speeds past Skip who is walking down the road further along. He doesn't even stop for his own Harvey kicks the dirt angrily. O.S. behind him a horn toots. Harvey turns and scowls at Nan, who would like to get past. He steps aside, and she peels away but she stops for Skip. They exchange a few words. Then he climbs into the front seat beside her, and she drives off. Now Harvey is alone. He looks around for a beat, then tosses the card away and moves toward his car.
CHAZ: What the fuck was he talking about anyway? We might find something around after we dock? They walk out onto a private peer and eye the boats moored there.
ROB: What the fuck do you think he was talking about?
CHAZ: VOICE ( O.S. ) Hey! What are you two doing down there?! Rob and Chaz look o.s. in response to the voice.
CHAZ: Well, now we've been identified.
ROB: It's getting late.
CHAZ: It's getting late.
ROB: What a great idea this was. They round a bend and stop dead.
THEIR POV: In the distance, Kit and Nikki are climbing into a boat. Nikki sees them and waves.
NIKKI: ( CALLING}
( CALLING}: We got one! Rob and Chaz.
ROB: I thought we looked there an hour ago.
CHAZ: Who cares? Let's get this show on the road! He starts running to the boat. Rob reluctantly follows.
CHAZ: ( calling back to them ) Did you find a key? How're we going to get the motor started?
NIKKI: ( AWKWARDLY )
MUFFY: Nikki, what on earth are you doing here? Is something wrong?
NIKKI: No, no, nothing's wrong. Chaz and I just figured there was nothing we had to get back to that couldn't wait and you could probably use a hand with the clean-up. It's our way of saying thank you.
MUFFY: Oh, great. Where is Chaz? Nikki is already moving into the living room.
NIKKI: Putting the boat up in the old boathouse. He'll be up in a minute.
NIKKI: I wonder what's keeping Chaz? He should have been up here by now.
MUFFY: Maybe he stopped to shit in the woods. You know Chaz.
NIKKI: Still. I'm beginning to not like this.
MUFFY: By the way, where did you get the boat to come back here?
NIKKI: The boat? Oh, Cal gave us one.
MUFFY: I see.
NIKKI: Listen, I need a drink of water.
MUFFY: What about your water?
NIKKL: Oh', uh, I drank 'it in there.
MUFFY: That's okay. You go. I'll wait here.
NIKKI: No, really. I don't want to go alone. I'm still scared from last night. Please come with me.
MUFFY: I'm sure Chaz is fine. I'll stay here by the phone just in case. It's safer this way.
NIKKI: ( IRRITATED )
NIKKI: ( MUTTERING )
NIKKI: She comes up sputtering to the surface of a small forest pool she has fallen into.
NIKKI: Fuck!! Who dug the goddamn swimming pool?!? She drags herself out. KIT ( o.s. ) She walks, dripping wet, into a clearing nearby where Kit it making Chaz up to look bloody and gruesome.
NIKKI: ( CALLING BACK )
CHAZ: She wouldn't come out? Doesn't she care about me? No one answers him. CHAZ ( cont. ) How do I look?
NIKKI: A lot goddamn, fucking better than I do!
NIKKI ,: Muffy! Muffy! Come quick! It's Chaz.
NIKKI: ( RUNNING IN )
NIKKI: She dashes into.
NIKKI: .and stops short. Muffy is lying face down in a pool of blood. Her throat's been cut. The useless phone receiver is clutched in her hand ( making that constant phone company noise that lets you know the phone is off the hook ).
NIKKI: ( RISING PANIC )
NIKKI: Chaz, get up! ·Hurry, Chaz!. come on! He doesn't move.
NIKKI: Chaz, stop playing around! Get up!! She starts kicking him in the side.
NIKKI: Chaz doesn't stir, but he does speak now without moving his lips.
CHAZ: ( hissing, pretending to be dead ) Will you quit kicking me? It hurts.
NIKKI: It's supposed to hurt! The game's over! Get up!
CHAZ: ( still not moving ) No. I'm dead. You're blowing the whole thing. Where's Muffy?
NIKKI: ( SHRIEKING )
CHAZ: ( sitting up suddenly ) ( turning to the woods ) Kit! Kit, come out! There is rustling O.S., then Kit starts to emerge.
NIKKI: ( turning to the woods ) Kit! Kit, come out! There is rustling O.S., then Kit starts to emerge.
KIT: What's going on?
NIKKI: She's gone! Nothing left, but the pool of blood and a thin trail of smeared drying blood to indicate that she's been dragged away.
KIT: Look, she's been dragged away.
CHAZ: Look, she's been dragged away.
NIKKI: ( PANICKING )
CHAZ: We could follow the trail.
KIT: ( DREAD )
KIT: They run over to him.
KIT: ( dropping to her knees ) Rob? Rob?? ( shaking him: wailing ) ( dissolving into tears ) It was only a game!
CHAZ: ( SCARED SHITLESS )
NIKKI: ( POINTING )
CHAZ: ( DAZED )
NIKKI: ( TREMBLING )
NIKKI: Muffy walks into the room , lowering the knife.
MUFFY: Good job, you guys. I'm really scared.
KIT: ( tears in her eyes ) Muffy, he's dead!
NIKKI: Somebody else is here! In this house!
MUFFY: Sure. Sure.
KIT: ( pulling her away; screaming ) Don't you touch him!!
MUFFY: Okay, okay, take it easy.
NIKKI: Muffy, it's not a game anymore! Just then there is a loud CRASH o.s. of glass breaking down on the first floor. After the slightest pause there is another crash o.s., and another. Someone is smashing in all the bay windows along the back porch. Nikki What the? And she runs back down the attic stairs, followed quickly by the INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - SAME as Muffy bursts out of the stairway and into the hall. Then Suddenly the door to the stairwell slams shut on Nikki and Chaz cutting them off. A key turns in the lock. Muffy and Kit turn back to see a male figure in the darkness who'd been hiding behind the door. Kit is nearest to him, and without warning, he lunges at her and buries a knife into her stomach ·up to the handle. Kit screams and chokes, trying to fight him off: but he stabs her again, and again and again, plunging the knife deep into her with every thrust.
MUFFY: ( ALARMED )
KIT: Muffy! Stop him! Help! He's killing me! Oh, God! He's killing me! Muffy, initially paralyzed with fear, now runs for her life, down the hallway, down the stairs.
SKIP: ( RAVING )
MUFFY: Skip! No! ! ! He makes a move to slit her throat, when Muffy kicks open the swinging door and sees.
HER POV: .standing on the other side, smiling, in various states of fake blood and mess. Rob, Kit, Nikki, Chaz and Nan. Muffy's eyes pop out. Skip's hands relax. And the others burst out laughing.
FADE OUT: FADE IN CLOSE UP
FADE IN: EXT. THE HOUSE ­ DAY A SIGN being lifted into the air. It reads:
CLOSE UP: A SIGN being lifted into the air. It reads:
