DUSSANDER: ( continuing ) A boy. I don't need anything, boy. Can't you read? I thought all American boys could read. Don't be a nuisance, now. Good day.
TODD: Don't forget your paper, Mr. Dussander. The door stops. Dussander opens it slowly. He unlatches the screen and slips his fingers around the paper. Todd does not let go.
DUSSANDER: Give me my newspaper.
TODD: Sure thing, Mr. Dussander. Dussander snatches the paper away and closes the screen door. Quickly, almost imperceptibly, the old man's eyes survey the area: across the street, up and down the sidewalk, the boy's My name is Denker. See? Denker. Perhaps you cannot read after all. What a pity. Good day. As the front door closes, Todd speaks rapidly into the narrowing gap.
DUSSANDER: My name is Denker. See? Denker. Perhaps you cannot read after all. What a pity. Good day. As the front door closes, Todd speaks rapidly into the narrowing gap.
TODD: Bergen-Belsen, January '43 to June '43. Auschwitz, June '43 to June '44. Then you went to Patin. The door stops, still partly open.
DUSSANDER: Listen, boy. I don't know what is the matter with you. But I don't have time for this game. Now, get out of here before I call the Call them if you want.
TODD: Call them if you want.
DUSSANDER: The heavy door slams shut.
TODD: It's okay by me Herr Kommandant. I'm sure the police would love to meet the "Blood- fiend of Patin." In a flash the front door is open, so is the screen. Dussander is through the doorway and descending upon Todd with the rolled umbrella raised to strike him. Todd stumbles back against the porch rail.
DUSSANDER: You get away from this house, God damn you! I'll beat you all the way home. But Todd regains his composure quickly. He brushes himself off and levels his eyes at the old man who now hardly seems the threat he was a few seconds ago.
TODD: After 1965, no one saw you again. Until I did. Three weeks ago on the downtown bus. If you want to call the cops, go right ahead. I'II wait on the steps.
DUSSANDER: You'll do no such thing.
TODD: I won't? Listen, old man, if I want to start screaming right here, I will. If I want to ride down to the police station and bring the cops back myself, then I will. I will do what ever I want. Do you understand? But if you like, I could come in for a minute. We could talk. I'd be out of my mind to let an insane boy like you into my home. Is that what you want, to come into my home? So be it. There is no arguing with crazy Dussander turns and steps back through the screen door. He stops at the threshold of the house and turns. He is holding the screen door open with one leg, the front door open with the other. He looks straight ahead. A moment later, Todd steps into the house.
DUSSANDER: I'd be out of my mind to let an insane boy like you into my home. Is that what you want, to come into my home? So be it. There is no arguing with crazy Dussander turns and steps back through the screen door. He stops at the threshold of the house and turns. He is holding the screen door open with one leg, the front door open with the other. He looks straight ahead. A moment later, Todd steps into the house.
DUSSANDER: My wife. She died in 1955 of lung disease. At that time I was working at the Menschler Motor Works in Essen. I was heartbroken. Todd's attention drifts away and his fingers slip over to a lampshade next to the photograph. He begins to feel it as though he were inspecting it for something.
TODD: Tell me, wasn't it Ilse Koch who made the lampshades out of human skin?
DUSSANDER: Now I don't know what you're talking about.
TODD: Sure you do, Mr. Dussander.
DUSSANDER: Denker. Denker. Denker. You don't listen, boy. The television has fried your brain. Your hands are shaking.
TODD: Your hands are shaking.
DUSSANDER: Yes, they're shaking. I'm old. We all shake. You are most tiresome, and rude. Now if you have a point I wish you'd come to it.
TODD: We're in no rush. If I thought you had plans, I'd say cancel them, but since I know you don't.
DUSSANDER: You know nothing of my business
TODD: What business? You sit in that ugly chair and watch soap operas all day. Except on Friday afternoons when you walk down to the movie theater. And twice a week you take the bus downtown to do your shopping. You always use the express lane because you never have more than ten items.
DUSSANDER: You have been following me?
TODD: Of course, I followed you. You think I normally go around to peoples' houses and accuse them of being Nazi fugitives?
DUSSANDER: Perhaps for me you made an exception.
TODD: No, for you I had to be sure. For Kurt Dussander I had to be absolutely certain. .Now, I am, and that's why I'm here. Todd sits on the sofa.
DUSSANDER: Oh, yes, I see now. As I am this ex-Nazi fellow, as you say, then this must be the part where I offer you my hidden stash of gold, taken from the mouths of old Jewish men, of course, which I keep buried in the basement. Isn't that right, boy? Well, I'm afraid you're wasting your time. I have no money. If I did I might even give you some just to be done with this nonsense.
TODD: I don't need money. You don't have any anyway. At least, I don't think so. You probably had to spend it all to sneak in the country. A good American passport is expensive on the black market, that I know.
DUSSANDER: Do you? Good for you.
TODD: Yes, I do. I know it all, Dussander. You're my One Great Interest.
DUSSANDER: Your what?
TODD: My One Great Interest. Well, not you personally, but, .well, it's something I learned back in eighth grade. Our teacher, Miss Harmon, she said we'd have to find our One Great Interest in life. You know, the thing that would really grab us. Once we did that, everything would fall into place. Like hers, she said, wasn't teaching, but collecting nineteenth-century postcards. I guess there's no money in that, so she has to be a teacher. Anyway, she told us to start thinking about it. So I did, but nothing happened. Until the following summer, in Ronny Pegler's garage. That's where I found INT. RONNY PEGLER'S GARAGE - DAY Todd and RONNY, both 13, rummage through several large boxes in the corner of the garage. We see that the boxes are filled with old war magazines. Ronny tosses several of them to the ground as he digs for his dad's old copies of Penthouse. Ronny selects one Penthouse and rifles through it. He discards it a moment One of these has three girls doing it same time. But the old war magazines catch Todd's attention. He picks one up curiously and carefully flips through the tattered pages. We see a few of the photographs: Nazi storm troopers, prisoners behind barbed wire, the ovens.
RONNY: One of these has three girls doing it same time. But the old war magazines catch Todd's attention. He picks one up curiously and carefully flips through the tattered pages. We see a few of the photographs: Nazi storm troopers, prisoners behind barbed wire, the ovens.
TODD: Hang on a sec. As young Todd stares into this secret world, his voice comes It was all there. pictures of stuff I'd never seen, stuff they never put in the books anymore, especially the ones they give us to read. And here were stacks of them.
TODD: Harmon said. I couldn't believe it. But there it was, the camps, the uniforms, the .the way they saluted each other. But what am I telling you for? You know more about this stuff than anybody.
DUSSANDER: Yes, what are you telling me for?
TODD: ( ignoring him ) Then last year I wrote my big term paper on Dachau. I got an A+. It was the only A+ she gave. I mean I always do real well. A's on everything. That's why I'm accelerated.
DUSSANDER: You know, accelerated. I skipped two grades, second and ninth. I didn't need them. That's why I'm already a junior. Dussander sits.
TODD: You know, accelerated. I skipped two grades, second and ninth. I didn't need them. That's why I'm already a junior. Dussander sits.
DUSSANDER: I see.
TODD: Some kids resent me for it. That's not important. Anyway, my paper really floored my history teacher. I guess because I got through all those books without throwing up. But I learned something. I learned that when you talk about the camps now, you have to remember to sound really disgusted. I mean, you can't just say what happened like the magazines did and leave it at that. If I tried that the teacher would have freaked and called my parents in.
RONNY: Todd, your mom's on the phone. She says you have to come home for dinner. .Todd? Todd, lost in the sea of old photographs, doesn't notice Ronny at first. Then he looks up at him. In his eyes is a glint of a darkness that we will come to know better.
TODD: ( suddenly wary of Todd ) Your mom's on the phone.
RONNY: ( suddenly wary of Todd ) Your mom's on the phone.
TODD: Nowadays you have to. soften it.
DUSSANDER: Why do I care about this?
TODD: Because, I don't want it softened. Todd hops up and begins to pace the floor. Dussander stares at him blankly, unsure of where this is going.
DUSSANDER: I am sure you trouble your parents to no end.
TODD: Actually, I'm pretty low maintenance. That's what my dad says.
DUSSANDER: You told your parents about me, then?
TODD: You think I'm crazy?
DUSSANDER: I think you're crackers, but go on. I'm Todd looks deep into Dussander's eyes. Dussander is uncomfortable. Slowly, Todd reaches out and brushes his finger against Dussander's hand. Dussander gets up.
TODD: And then it happened. I was on my way to the library. It was raining. FLASHBACK: INT. CITY BUS - DAY Todd's voice narrates what we are seeing. Todd, seated near the back of the bus, watches Dussander climb aboard. Todd thinks nothing of it at first, but soon finds that he is unable to take his eyes off him. Todd is trying to place the old man's face in his mind.
TODD: It was incredible. Dussander stares back at him flatly.
DUSSANDER: All of this. because of a rain coat?
TODD: Well, it wasn't really check up on it. And every picture of you in those books is forty years old, at least. I went back to the library to find the picture. And then I matched it with the photos I took.
DUSSANDER: You took photographs of me?
TODD: Yeah, I got this little camera. Fits right in the palm of my hand.
DUSSANDER: ( crunches cigarette into ashtray ) Clever boy.
TODD: But even then I couldn't be sure. I needed real proof. So I went to the mall and bought a fingerprint kit from the hobby shop and a book that tells you what you're supposed to look for and then dusted your mailbox while you were at the movies. Pretty smart, huh?
DUSSANDER: You. put dust on my mailbox? For fingerprints? You took photographs of me? What else did you do?. I don't believe any of this.
TODD: I already had a copy of your fingerprints. They're on your want sheet from the Israeli government. It's on database at UC Irvine. Can you believe that?
DUSSANDER: He storms toward the kitchen and stops.
TODD: Sure, you got a Coke?
DUSSANDER: Dussander disappears into the kitchen. Todd stands alone in the living room. He lets out a long, nervous breath, showing for the first time the presence of something other than the cold confidence he has been putting up for Dussander. He knows he has crossed into dangerous territory from which there is no going back. But after a moment he composes himself; he has come this far. The sternness returns to his eyes. Todd is all business. He takes a breath, and then speaks loudly enough for Dussander to hear him in the kitchen.
TODD: Dussander disappears into the kitchen. Todd stands alone in the living room. He lets out a long, nervous breath, showing for the first time the presence of something other than the cold confidence he has been putting up for Dussander. He knows he has crossed into dangerous territory from which there is no going back. But after a moment he composes himself; he has come this far. The sternness returns to his eyes. Todd is all business. He takes a breath, and then speaks loudly enough for Dussander to hear him in the kitchen.
DUSSANDER: Dussander disappears into the kitchen. Todd stands alone in the living room. He lets out a long, nervous breath, showing for the first time the presence of something other than the cold confidence he has been putting up for Dussander. He knows he has crossed into dangerous territory from which there is no going back. But after a moment he composes himself; he has come this far. The sternness returns to his eyes. Todd is all business. He takes a breath, and then speaks loudly enough for Dussander to hear him in the kitchen.
TODD: It takes eight good matches, they're called compares, actually, for a fingerprint to get accepted in court.
TODD: Maybe I will. Mom thinks I'd be good at it.
TODD: I found fourteen compares. Dussander approaches him carrying a tumbler of milk and a glass of bourbon. He hands the tumbler to Todd, who brings it up to his lips and hesitates.
DUSSANDER: He snatches the cup and swallows twice.
TODD: A violation?
DUSSANDER: Kind of like those experiments with the decompression chamber. Now, that was a violation, Dussander.
TODD: Kind of like those experiments with the decompression chamber. Now, that was a violation, Dussander.
DUSSANDER: That fucking name. Enough of that. I demand You what?
TODD: You what?
DUSSANDER: I demand
TODD: You demand nothing from me. Ever. Get it? Boy, I will tell you this once more, and for the last time. My name is Arthur Denker. It has never been anything else. It has never even been Americanized. If you must know, and apparently you must, I was named by my father who greatly admired the stories of Arthur Conan Doyle. I did serve in the reserves, I admit, and in the late thirties, when I was first married, I supported Hitler. I supported him most, I suppose, because for the first time in years there was work and there was tobacco. .Would you like a No. My dad used to smoke. Mom made him quit. Now he's addicted to Nicorette. that's nicotine gum. Dussander turns toward the counter and pulls a kitchen match from a cabinet. He lights his cigarette with his back to Todd.
DUSSANDER: Boy, I will tell you this once more, and for the last time. My name is Arthur Denker. It has never been anything else. It has never even been Americanized. If you must know, and apparently you must, I was named by my father who greatly admired the stories of Arthur Conan Doyle. I did serve in the reserves, I admit, and in the late thirties, when I was first married, I supported Hitler. I supported him most, I suppose, because for the first time in years there was work and there was tobacco. .Would you like a No. My dad used to smoke. Mom made him quit. Now he's addicted to Nicorette. that's nicotine gum. Dussander turns toward the counter and pulls a kitchen match from a cabinet. He lights his cigarette with his back to Todd.
TODD: No. My dad used to smoke. Mom made him quit. Now he's addicted to Nicorette. that's nicotine gum. Dussander turns toward the counter and pulls a kitchen match from a cabinet. He lights his cigarette with his back to Todd.
DUSSANDER: Nicotine gum. Dussander's eyes drift to the collection of kitchen knives neatly stuffed in their block on the counter in front of him. He lingers a moment, pulls deeply on the cigarette, then turns and continues.
TODD: That was pretty good. So much to remember. But I guess it helps when you have forty years to practice your story.
DUSSANDER: Oh, to hell with this and to hell with you. I'm calling the police. Your father is going to beat your behind when he picks you up at the police station.
TODD: No. My parents don't believe in violence.
DUSSANDER: Well, they should start. I'm calling. Dussander steps past Todd and picks up the receiver of the phone hanging on the wall above the table. The boy still sits motionless behind him. Dussander dials a "9", and then, with more difficulty, a "1". He stands with his finger poised over the final "1". Tiny beads of sweat roll over his forehead. His shoulders drop. Todd stands up. Their faces are close Hang up the phone.
TODD: Hang up the phone.
DUSSANDER: This is unforgivable. Do you know the things you're accusing me of?
TODD: Do it. Slowly, Dussander brings the receiver down onto its hook.
DUSSANDER: If you don't want money, what do you want?
TODD: I want to hear about it.
DUSSANDER: Hear about what?
TODD: The camps. Everything. The experiments. The examinations. All the stuff the writers are scared to put in their books because people will think they're sick. That's what I want, Exactly. And you're going to tell it to me.
DUSSANDER: Exactly. And you're going to tell it to me.
TODD: Exactly. And you're going to tell it to me.
DUSSANDER: You're a monster.
TODD: According to history you're the monster.
DUSSANDER: How could you ask me to remember such things? I can barely remember to take my heart You were there. You did those things. No one can tell it better than you can. And you will tell it, starting today. Right now. If you don't, I'll tell everyone who you are. I swear it.
TODD: You were there. You did those things. No one can tell it better than you can. And you will tell it, starting today. Right now. If you don't, I'll tell everyone who you are. I swear it.
DUSSANDER: Why should I? Why should I do any of it?
TODD: Because you hung up the phone. That's why. .And just so you know, just so there is no misunderstanding whatsoever. Everything I have on you, the compares, the want sheet, all the photographs, are all in an envelope under my mattress. I'm going to put it there every time I come to see you. If anything happens to me, if I should suddenly disappear, some one will find it. Believe That's a foolish thing to do. What if your mother goes in your room anyway? What if she hires a maid?
DUSSANDER: That's a foolish thing to do. What if your mother goes in your room anyway? What if she hires a maid?
TODD: You better hope she doesn't. We're wasting time. Let's get started. I have to be home for dinner. Today I want to hear about the ovens. How you baked them after they were dead. and before. A boy. a boy.
DUSSANDER: ( to himself ) A boy. a boy.
TODD: But before we start, put your teeth in. You look better with your teeth.
MAIN TITLES: INT. HIGH SCHOOL CLASSROOM - DAY TITLE: SEPTEMBER 1984 A typical high school image. Rows of students sit listening to a lecture from MR. PROXMIRE, fifties, as he weaves his way through the aisles.
PROXMIRE: But in 1902, Panama didn't exist. The country we know as Panama was part of As the teacher continues to lecture, the camera stops on JOEY, 17. On his desk is a folded note. He hands it across the aisle and motions for it to be sent to Todd a few rows over. The note moves across the room, avoiding the meandering teacher, on its way to Todd.
JOEY: ( laughs ) Take it easy, Jesus. It's just me, flinch- ( serious ) Don't do that.
TODD: ( serious ) Don't do that.
JOEY: I got news for you. You're gonna like it.
TODD: Walk with me to French. The two walk down the corridor.
JOEY: Someone likes you. Someone good.
TODD: Well, I heard my sister talking on the phone with Lisa Herman, and. well
JOEY: Well, I heard my sister talking on the phone with Lisa Herman, and. well
TODD: You going to tell me who it is? Two CHEERLEADERS pass them.
JOEY: ( lowering voice ) You didn't hear it from me.
TODD: Becky Trask.
JOEY: Becky Trask.
TODD: Was that so hard?
JOEY: So ask her out and the weekend after next you can double with me and Vanessa.
TODD: What about this weekend?
JOEY: I'm already planning on being grounded.
TODD: Grounded? What for?
JOEY: Where the hell you been? Report cards were sent out today. I know that never affects They arrive at the door of Todd's classroom as the BELL SOUNDS.
TODD: I've never seen anyone drink bourbon with McDonald's before. .So, How did the stuff get to Patin?
DUSSANDER: In railroad cars marked "Medical Supplies." It came in long crates that looked like coffins.
TODD: That's fitting. Was it always Zyklon-B? The cat jumps into Dussander's lap again. He throws it down, this time harder.
DUSSANDER: No, from time to time we would be sent something else. Experimental gases. The High Command was always interested in improving efficiency. Once they sent us a gas code-named "Pegasus." A nerve gas. Thank God they never sent it again. It. Todd sits up a little, leaning in.
TODD: It what?
DUSSANDER: It didn't work very well. It was quite boring.
TODD: Bullshit. You're lying. What did it do?
DUSSANDER: It killed them. What do you think it did, made them walk on water? It killed them. The cat jumps up a third time. This time Dussander picks it up and tosses it a good six feet. The animal hits the ground and runs away.
TODD: Tell me. Tell me.
DUSSANDER: I won't. I refuse. Where are my cigarettes? He finds the pack and fumbles a cigarette to his lips. He lights it. Todd watches calmly, giving the old man a moment to collect himself, and then.
TODD: What did it do?
DUSSANDER: It made them dance.
TODD: Like Zyklon-B, it came in through the shower heads. After a few seconds the prisoners began to leap about. Some were screaming. Most of them were laughing. They began to vomit and to. to defecate helplessly.
DUSSANDER: Like Zyklon-B, it came in through the shower heads. After a few seconds the prisoners began to leap about. Some were screaming. Most of them were laughing. They began to vomit and to. to defecate helplessly.
TODD: You mean they. they. shit themselves? But Dussander ignores him, staring out into the yard as he begins to remember more easily.
DUSSANDER: They began to twitch all over and make high, strange sounds in their throats. At last they collapsed and just lay there on the concrete, twitching and yodeling, with blood streaming from their noses. But I lied to you, boy. It didn't kill them. Either because it wasn't strong enough or because we couldn't bring ourselves to wait that long. I suppose it was that. I sent five men in with rifles to end their agonies. These were five men I trusted. It would have looked bad on my record to have wasted so many cartridges at a time when the Fuehrer had declared every cartridge a national resource. I was always given high marks for efficiency.
TODD: Yeah, I bet. Dussander looks down at the remains of the meal in his lap. As if his own story has suddenly disgusted him, he balls the food up in its wrapper and shoves it into the paper bag.
DUSSANDER: How do you eat this crap everyday?
TODD: Why didn't you just do the job yourself? You carried a gun, didn't you?
DUSSANDER: ( incredulous ) I was the commandant of the camp.
TODD: So you never killed anybody?
DUSSANDER: ( getting frustrated ) The entire world was at war, boy. People died.
TODD: That's not a real answer. I'm asking about Boy, I was a soldier in a position of power. You don't get to be there by selling .girl scout's cookies.
DUSSANDER: Boy, I was a soldier in a position of power. You don't get to be there by selling .girl scout's cookies.
TODD: I know what the SS was, Dussander. Who are you talking to? It was a bunch of dumb, rich kids who bought their way into the service so they wouldn't have to go fight on the front. Dussander stares at Todd, wanting to say something. Todd shovels a few more fries into his mouth, then looks up and sees Dussander eyeing him.
DUSSANDER: That's enough for today, boy. I beg you. I'm tired.
TODD: Yeah, fine. That was good story though. You always tell them good, once I get you started. ANGLE on Dussander. DUSSANDER'S DREAM #1: EXT. OPEN FIELD - DAY Dussander is asleep in his bed. A low groaning sound comes in very slowly. Dussander's eyes open. He sits up, looks around, sees that his bed is in the middle of a large open field. It is grassy, but certainly not beautiful. Something is wrong about this place. He stands out of the bed, wearing pajamas. But it is cold. He takes the sheet and wraps himself in it. The groaning is getting louder, more human. We have never seen him frightened, until now. He steps a few paces from the bed. The groans have becomes low screams. There is no where to go. Slowly, as if he knows what he's going to see, he looks down at the ground. It's just grass. But the human voices are now wailing desperately. His knees buckle, but he tries to fight it. He reaches his knees and lowers his head toward the ground. The white sheet flows around him and blows off in a gust of wind. The screams are now at a feverish pitch. His ear is inches from the grass and his eyes, marked with unmistakable terror, are wide open INT. DUSSANDER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT Dussander bolts upright in his bed.
DICK: You're tight. Don't hold your breath so long.
TODD: Forget it. I can't concentrate. He pulls off his headphones in disgust and hands the rifle to his father. Dick takes it and begins to reload it for him.
DICK: I know your upset. So am I. So is your These honors classes. they aren't as easy as I thought they'd be. I totally admit it, I didn't prepare enough. I'm sorry.
TODD: These honors classes. they aren't as easy as I thought they'd be. I totally admit it, I didn't prepare enough. I'm sorry.
DICK: Well, fine, but now is not the time to slack off. You got a chance to finish at the top of your class
TODD: Nobody wants that more than I do, Dad.
DICK: Well you haven't been hitting the books very I know.
TODD: I know.
DICK: And seeing as you're not playing soccer this year it's not like you don't have enough That still bothers you, doesn't it?
TODD: That still bothers you, doesn't it?
DICK: ( with difficulty ) No, son. If you weren't enjoying it, then you shouldn't play.
TODD: I think it bothers you and you're not telling Dick decides to take a shot himself. He readies himself and That was lousy. Here. I want to see your grades come up, buddy. That's all that bothers me. And if you say you need more time to study, then that's what we'll do. The first thing is to cut out all the time you spend reading to Mr. Denker. It's a nice thing to do, but it's not helping our school work a bit. Dick is looking at his son, unsure if he has just seen a contortion of rage on his son's face. But Todd is cocking the rifle and.
DICK: That was lousy. Here. I want to see your grades come up, buddy. That's all that bothers me. And if you say you need more time to study, then that's what we'll do. The first thing is to cut out all the time you spend reading to Mr. Denker. It's a nice thing to do, but it's not helping our school work a bit. Dick is looking at his son, unsure if he has just seen a contortion of rage on his son's face. But Todd is cocking the rifle and.
TODD: Yeah. no. Dad, don't do that. Please. Don't punish Mr. Denker for something that's my fault. I mean, he'd be lost without me
DICK: He'll be fine without you. He was fine before and he'll be fine after. There's nothing wrong with wanting to help people, but you gotta make sure you got yourself squared away first. That's what matters. Todd turns to face his father, and speaks to him with a new Dad, am I like other kids?
TODD: Dad, am I like other kids?
DICK: Not by a long shot.
TODD: Then trust me on this. Don't lose faith in me because I blew a couple of exams. I will get my grades back up. In fact I've already started. Three days a week I go over to Freddy Tremain's for extra help. He's a wiz at trig. But please, Dad, whatever you do, don't punish a helpless old man for something that's my fault. Did you practice that in front of a mirror or Todd smiles. Feeling his father caving in, he aims the rifle and squeezes off a round. Dick keeps his eyes on Todd as he shoots.
DICK: Did you practice that in front of a mirror or Todd smiles. Feeling his father caving in, he aims the rifle and squeezes off a round. Dick keeps his eyes on Todd as he shoots.
TODD: ( it takes him a second ) Just checking. ( thinks for a moment ) All right. We'll give your way a shot. If you think you can do it, if you really do, and your serious, then. okay. You really like the old guy, don't you?
DICK: Just checking. All right. We'll give your way a shot. If you think you can do it, if you really do, and your serious, then. okay. You really like the old guy, don't you?
TODD: I'm making a difference in somebody's life. It's that simple. Todd aims the rifle down range and pulls the trigger. The gun jams. Todd tries to move the lever but it gets stuck.
DICK: Okay, okay. Don't ever force it. Watch. Dick begins to methodically unjam the gun.
DUSSANDER: You don't have to do that, you know.
TODD: Screw you. I'm doing this for me. This place is freezing. Dussander comes back in with his drink and settles into his easy chair, which has been positioned in front of the hearth.
DUSSANDER: Yes, it must be fifty degrees outside. I'm sure to you it seems positively frigid.
TODD: Why didn't you pay your gas bill?
DUSSANDER: It slipped my mind. I will attend to it Slipped your mind. I noticed it didn't slip your mind to stock up on a new case of Leave me alone. Todd finishes with the fire and sits on the floor a few feet All right, so finish your story, because I'm still not clear. You cook up this stew, and you bring the prisoner in, and you let them smell it, and suddenly they tell you Oh, don't misunderstand me. Certainly with a pistol pressed to their head, a prisoner would tell us everything we wanted to know, sometimes more. But mine was a much more . elegant method. Remember, it had been months since they had smelled real potatoes simmering over an open flame, and boy, when that delicious odor hit their noses their mouths would drop and out would pour an account of every minor infraction their friends had committed, I mean it was And you let them eat the soup?
TODD: Slipped your mind. I noticed it didn't slip your mind to stock up on a new case of Leave me alone. Todd finishes with the fire and sits on the floor a few feet All right, so finish your story, because I'm still not clear. You cook up this stew, and you bring the prisoner in, and you let them smell it, and suddenly they tell you Oh, don't misunderstand me. Certainly with a pistol pressed to their head, a prisoner would tell us everything we wanted to know, sometimes more. But mine was a much more . elegant method. Remember, it had been months since they had smelled real potatoes simmering over an open flame, and boy, when that delicious odor hit their noses their mouths would drop and out would pour an account of every minor infraction their friends had committed, I mean it was And you let them eat the soup?
DUSSANDER: Leave me alone. Todd finishes with the fire and sits on the floor a few feet All right, so finish your story, because I'm still not clear. You cook up this stew, and you bring the prisoner in, and you let them smell it, and suddenly they tell you Oh, don't misunderstand me. Certainly with a pistol pressed to their head, a prisoner would tell us everything we wanted to know, sometimes more. But mine was a much more . elegant method. Remember, it had been months since they had smelled real potatoes simmering over an open flame, and boy, when that delicious odor hit their noses their mouths would drop and out would pour an account of every minor infraction their friends had committed, I mean it was And you let them eat the soup?
TODD: All right, so finish your story, because I'm still not clear. You cook up this stew, and you bring the prisoner in, and you let them smell it, and suddenly they tell you Oh, don't misunderstand me. Certainly with a pistol pressed to their head, a prisoner would tell us everything we wanted to know, sometimes more. But mine was a much more . elegant method. Remember, it had been months since they had smelled real potatoes simmering over an open flame, and boy, when that delicious odor hit their noses their mouths would drop and out would pour an account of every minor infraction their friends had committed, I mean it was And you let them eat the soup?
DUSSANDER: Oh, don't misunderstand me. Certainly with a pistol pressed to their head, a prisoner would tell us everything we wanted to know, sometimes more. But mine was a much more . elegant method. Remember, it had been months since they had smelled real potatoes simmering over an open flame, and boy, when that delicious odor hit their noses their mouths would drop and out would pour an account of every minor infraction their friends had committed, I mean it was And you let them eat the soup?
TODD: And you let them eat the soup?
DUSSANDER: Oh, we never promised them the soup in exchange for information. We never mentioned it at all. Pause. Todd is impressed.
TODD: Wow, that's really good, Dussander. I mean that's thinking. Dussander does not respond. He gazes deeply into the fire.
DUSSANDER: .But, as the war pressed on, the time for such civilized measures became a luxury. I remember by April of '45, we had barely enough food to feed ourselves. The sound of the Russian mortars grew louder everyday, but still, the train cars from France and Poland kept coming. This was a time of desperation. The ovens burned day and night and still I knew we would not beat the arrival of the Russian forces. Many of my men, the cowardly ones, deserted during the night. But the men that remained, the same ones I had called upon so many times, .continued the work. At first we thought a massive fire in the main building would serve our purpose. We could just crowd them in and pull a gas torch up to each of the windows. But with so many of them, we couldn't be sure the bodies would burn properly. We needed something .certain. Then a young, bright soldier, I shall never forget his enthusiastic smile, pointed to a pair of bulldozers near the Western gate which had been used during construction. How perfectly simple it was. The bulldozers carved a narrow trench, four meters deep, down the center of the camp. For two hours they dug until I realized we may not have enough gas to finish the job. So the inmates were given shovels and told they were building a shelter from the incoming artillery. When they were done, I immediately called for a practice drill and three thousand naked bodies began to march into the trench. It took less than twenty minutes to get them in place. Quickly the bulldozers moved down the sides of the pit sending the piles of earth into the massive grave. Those who tried to free themselves were shot, of course, but very few cartridges were wasted that day. The machines were too fast. Back and forth they went. packing the dirt. One by one the tractors ran out of gas and my men had to scurry along with shovels. But by sunset. it was done. I gave the order to evacuate. In the distance the plumes of Russian mortar fire rose like an approaching thundercloud. But I knew that no matter what happened, .no one would ever forget what we did here. Dussander stares into the fire. Todd, wide-eyed, is locked on Dussander when. The PHONE RINGS. They look at each other, a bit puzzled. Clearly, it does not ring very often, and when it does, Dussander cannot help but be It rings again. Dussander gets up and moves toward the kitchen, Todd watches him go.
BECKY: Is everything all right?
TODD: Yeah, I'm fine. Becky smiles to herself, unconvinced.
BECKY: You're nervous. I think it's sweet.
TODD: No. No, I'm cool.
BECKY: Do you want me to do something else? Todd just stares at her. He doesn't know what he wants. Becky decides for him. She slides down out of the frame. Todd is startled at first, but lets her. After a moment, he closes his EXT. DUSSANDER'S BACK PORCH - NIGHT Dussander sits in his rocking chair. A small blanket drapes across his lap. He smokes a cigarette and holds a near-empty glass. On the ground beside him, there is a small bowl.
DUSSANDER: Here kitty-kitty. Here kitty-kitty. Out in the yard, the large cat emerges from the darkness and moves across the grass. It sees Dussander and, more importantly, the bowl next to him. We see that the bowl is filled with milk.
TODD: I'm sorry.
BECKY: It's all right. Maybe you'll be more in the mood later.
TODD: I don't know. That's never happened before. Becky lights a joint. She takes a puff and exhales toward Todd.
BECKY: Maybe you don't like me.
TODD: No, I do.
BECKY: ( exhaling out the window ) Maybe you don't like girls.
TODD: Let's just go home.
DUSSANDER: Oww, you mother-fucker. They move across the room to the stove. With difficulty, Dussander pulls open the oven door, revealing the glowing red interior. The animal SCREAMS and claws at Dussander's neck and arms, escaping more and more from the blanket with every gyration of its body. With a mighty shove Dussander plunges the cat toward the opening, but the animal braces its paws on the edge of the stove. The two are deadlocked. But Dussander's hands are too close to the heat. He screams. His grip loosens just enough. With a desperate cry, the animal charges up Dussander's body, over his head, and leaps to the floor. Dussander dives after it.
DUSSANDER: ( to other scientists ) Test run eight-four. Electricity, sexual stimulus, metabolism. Based on the Thyssen theories of negative reinforcement.
MONICA: Todd loved that dog. A lot more than Dick We all loved that dog.
DICK: We all loved that dog.
AGNES: I remember when you had to put it down, Todd cried for two weeks. Just about broke my Excuse, me, Mrs. Bowden. Put it down? I've been here over twenty years but that's a new Means put it to sleep, Victor. Dussander still looks puzzled. He looks to Todd, but Victor jumps in.
DUSSANDER: Excuse, me, Mrs. Bowden. Put it down? I've been here over twenty years but that's a new Means put it to sleep, Victor. Dussander still looks puzzled. He looks to Todd, but Victor jumps in.
VICTOR: Means put it to sleep, Victor. Dussander still looks puzzled. He looks to Todd, but Victor jumps in.
MONICA: It's very humane.
DUSSANDER: I see. Todd shoots him a fiery glare that the others don't notice.
MONICA: Some more pie?
DUSSANDER: As my departed wife used to say, 'One must never overdo the sublime.'
AGNES: It was delicious, Monica.
VICTOR: Tell me, Arthur, if you don't mind me asking. What did you do during the war?
AGNES: Now don't get too personal, Victor. A quick moment between Todd and Dussander.
DUSSANDER: I was a student at the University until my reserve unit was called in 1943. But we were not a combat unit, thank God. Mechanical engineers. Help me find my cigarettes, Todd. Would you? In those days, not even the call of higher learning could exempt an able body from military service. Dussander's cigarettes are right in front of him. Todd fetches one and, bringing it to his own lips, lights it for him.
MONICA: Todd Bowden!
DUSSANDER: ( laughs knowingly ) My dear, I do apologize. My hands are too arthritic to strike a match, I'm afraid. Your son has been good enough to help an old man with his filthy habits.
MONICA: Well.as long as you don't inhale.
TODD: Cigarettes are gross, Mom.
VICTOR: Well, Victor, you were doing your part like we all were, I suppose. Of course, if you were in the Pacific Fleet I'd have to shoot Everyone laughs, except Todd.
DICK: ( to Dussander ) My dad is very proud of the fact that the Bowden men have hit every major conflict since the Civil War.
VICTOR: That's right. Dickie served two tours in Vietnam. Earned a bronze star and a purple It's one family tradition I'd like to put an end to. Todd and I blow a few caps down at the range every week. That's all the combat he needs.
DICK: It's one family tradition I'd like to put an end to. Todd and I blow a few caps down at the range every week. That's all the combat he needs.
TODD: ( perking up, offended ) What's that supposed to mean?
DICK: Forget it.
DUSSANDER: ( looking at Todd ) Perhaps your son would excel in combat.
MONICA: Todd could excel at anything. Right, honey? Todd doesn't answer. His eyes are still on Dick. Dick notices Oh, let's don't even talk about this. I can't stand to think of you boys fighting another The Purple Heart. You were injured?
AGNES: ( getting up, starts to clear some dishes ) Oh, let's don't even talk about this. I can't stand to think of you boys fighting another The Purple Heart. You were injured?
DUSSANDER: The Purple Heart. You were injured?
TODD: He was knocked unconscious and woke up in a A long pause. Dick is embarrassed and offended by Todd's stab. He puffs on his cigar. Agnes comes in from the kitchen and picks up some more dishes. Dick stands suddenly to help her.
DICK: Mom, let me get that for you.
DUSSANDER: You shouldn't be so hard on your father.
TODD: Why don't you mind your own business.
DUSSANDER: ( amused at Todd's short fuse ) Boy, It's not so easy to raise children. Your father does the best he can, I'm sure. Having his own father there is bound to cause some anxiety on his part
TODD: Oh, give me a frigging break, will you? Look who's talking to me, for Christ's sake. And what was that crap about the dog? If you were any more charming I was going to puke.
DUSSANDER: Heavens, boy, wasn't that precisely the point? I used the evening to our advantage.
TODD: Certainly now they will offer no objections if you continue to come over and read to me.
DUSSANDER: Certainly now they will offer no objections if you continue to come over and read to me.
TODD: You sure take a lot for granted. Do you think there's anybody forcing me to come over to your scuzzy house and watch you slop up booze all day? Do you?
DUSSANDER: Lower your voice. People will hear.
TODD: So what? Dussander stops.
DUSSANDER: No, nobody forces you to come. In fact, you are welcome to stay away. Believe me, boy, I have no scruples about drinking alone. None at all. They start walking again. Dussander turns up his driveway. Todd follows.
TODD: You know, if they found out what you are, they'd spit on you.
DUSSANDER: I am sure they would have nothing but revulsion for me. But what would they say about you, boy, when I told them you had known about me for nine months. and said Dussander unlocks his door and steps in.
TODD: Go ahead, open it. Wait, I better pull down the shades, first.
DUSSANDER: What for?
TODD: Just to be safe.
DUSSANDER: ( getting up ) To hell with this. You open it.
TODD: Oh, relax, old man. Sit down and open it. Todd opens the refrigerator and pulls out a can of Coke. Dussander slowly sits back down.
DUSSANDER: You wrapped it yourself, I see. He begins to remove the bow, and then the paper. He moves very cautiously, as if the package might explode at any moment. Finally, he removes the lid and his expression shifts from one of fear to one of exasperation.
TODD: Merry Christmas! We see that the box contains a replica of an officer's S.S. uniform, complete with hat and jackboots. Dussander reads the Pete's Quality Costume Clothiers - Serving You Since 1976.
DUSSANDER: Pete's Quality Costume Clothiers - Serving You Since 1976.
TODD: Go ahead, try it on.
DUSSANDER: Are you out of your mind, boy? What makes you think I would put something like that on?
TODD: I thought you'd like it
DUSSANDER: Like it? My God, you're a bigger fool than I thought. Maybe I'll put it on and do a little shopping downtown. Is that what you thought? You stupid, boy.
TODD: Don't call me stupid.
DUSSANDER: You. You know, you are correct. stupid one. For months I have suffered your indignities. I have exposed my past to you while watching you stuff your face with those wretched hamburgers. I have stocked my refrigerator with Coca Cola and ding dongs. All for you, I have done these things and I'm tired of it. But because I value my life and my freedom, what's left of it anyway, I do them. But I'll die before I put this thing on, you fucking piss-ant.
TODD: That's enough. You don't get to talk to me like that. Dussander bangs the table.
DUSSANDER: I should smash you.
TODD: Do it. Please. Indignities? What you've suffered with me is nothing compared to what the Israelis would do to you. Remember what happened to Eichmann? You forget that, I think. And, you know, that's my fault. I have let you forget. You have gotten comfortable with this situation. Well, don't you for one minute ever forget who holds the cards here. Don't you ever forget that envelope under my mattress. I tried to do this the nice way, I tried to do something to please you, but you don't want it. So fine, we'll do it the hard way. You will put this on because I want to see you in it. Now strip.
DUSSANDER: I hope you go to hell
DUSSANDER: The insignia is all wrong. The boots should be leather, not imitation.
TODD: That suit cost me over eighty bucks. with the boots.
DUSSANDER: And this material. what? Polyester?
TODD: Quiet. Straighten that hat. Dussander ignores him.
DUSSANDER: Dussander does what he is told.
TODD: Slowly Dussander straightens up.
DUSSANDER: Boy. be careful. You play with fire. DUSSANDER'S DREAM #2: INT. DUSSANDER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT Dussander wakes to a strange, faint rumble. He climbs out of bed and walks across his bedroom toward the source of the sound. We follow him as he moves farther and farther away from his bed. Soon it is apparent that he is in a space much larger than his room. Yet he is still in darkness, as if his room has suddenly ended and continues into a black void. But the rumble gets louder, more mechanical sounding. As the sound crescendoes we see what Dussander sees. A train car. Steam rises in the air as if the train has just come to a complete stop in the night. Dussander stares at the boxcar coldly, and we realize that something is staring back at him. Eyes, dozens of them, glare back at him from between the slatted boards of the train. Some are low to the flooe, like those of children. Others are higher. Dussander snaps at them in German.
DUSSANDER: ( in German ) Come out. .Come out, now!
JOEY: So what are you going to do?
TODD: Fuck if I know. Todd throws up a clumsy shot. It misses.
JOEY: You're throwing it flat. Let it roll off your fingers more.
TODD: ( snapping at him ) I don't need a lesson. Your dad, man. I don't know. I mean, I'm a fuck up. My dad is used to this crap from You said something?
JOEY: Your dad, man. I don't know. I mean, I'm a fuck up. My dad is used to this crap from Todd does not respond to his friend's attempt at humor. He is slamming the ball around with great force. He bounces it hard off the back wall to give himself a rebound. He is mumbling to You said something?
JOEY: You said something?
TODD: You said something?
JOEY: You said something?
TODD: You're talking to yourself, Bowden. It's not the first time I've noticed it. What is going on with you?
JOEY: You're talking to yourself, Bowden. It's not the first time I've noticed it. What is going on with you?
TODD: Nothing, Joey. I fucked up. I'II fix it. I'II fix it.
JOEY: ( hurt ) All right, man. Whatever you say. Look, I got to get to practice.
TODD: ( mumbling ) You're talking to yourself, Bowden. You're talking to yourself, Bowden.
TODD: What the fuck happened in here?
DUSSANDER: Ah, boy. I burned my TV dinner, I'm afraid.
TODD: Something's come up. Sit down. Dussander's studies Todd for a moment. Although Todd appears calm, his tone reflects a somber, business-like attitude.
DUSSANDER: I see. What seems to be the trouble? Todd sets his grade card and the envelope on the table. Dussander picks up the grade card and examines it.
DUSSANDER: Quarterly Progress Report. You seem to have fallen on the rocks, my boy. One B, three C's and a D. Hardly the work of a "National Merit Scholar," or whatever you call yourself.
TODD: This isn't a joke, Dussander. I can't blame this on teachers or honors classes anymore.
DUSSANDER: Looks like you have a problem then.
TODD: I have a problem? You still don't get it. I'm out of excuses. Do you know what's going to happen when my dad sees that? He's going to hit the fucking roof. He'll get it all out of me. The truth, you.everything.
DUSSANDER: Boy, it's not my fault your grades have Don't be so sure. Dussander throws Todd a dismissive wave. He gets up to get a drink
TODD: Don't be so sure. Dussander throws Todd a dismissive wave. He gets up to get a drink
DUSSANDER: Please, you don't spend that much time here. I hardly think
TODD: ( quickly, as if confessing something ) I can't study anymore.
TODD: ( with difficulty ) I try. But it's. different now. I sit in front of my books and start thinking about. about corpses, and electrified fences and people getting strangled with piano wire. All that crap you tell me. The next thing I know it's after midnight. I sit in class like a zombie, .useless. But that's not the half of it. Check out the letter.
DUSSANDER: ( reading letter ) 'Dear Mr. and Mrs. Bowden, this note is to suggest that we have a group conference concerning Todd's first semester grades. In light of his previous good work in this school, the sudden deterioration in his grades suggest a specific problem which should be addressed before his academic advancement is jeopardized permanently. Such a problem can often be solved by a frank and open discussion. I am ready to work out a time for us to meet. In a case such as this, earlier is usually better. Sincerely yours, Edward French.' Who is this Edward French, the headmaster?
TODD: French? Fuck no. He's a stupid guidance Guidance counselor? What is that?
DUSSANDER: Guidance counselor? What is that?
TODD: He guides and he counsels. You read the fucking note. Do you realize I could have to go to summer school? Me, in there with all those fuck-ups. I do not want to go to summer school.
DUSSANDER: Or to the reformatory.
TODD: What did you say?
DUSSANDER: Boy, .you have a far greater problem than your school grades. Before you speak to me about what they will "get out of you", remember the facts. .Seventy thousand people died at Patin. Have you forgotten that? To the world at large I am the most despicable of criminals, a monster. Do you think I would stand aside and let you turn me in so easily? Without a fight? Is your American self-confidence so bloated that you have never once realized you are an accessory to my crimes. You have criminal knowledge of an illegal alien, and have not reported it. Don't you see that? And if I'm caught, I will tell the world all about you. When the reporters put their microphones in my face it will be your name I'll repeat over and over again. Todd Bowden, yes that's his name. How long?. oh, for months, almost a year. He wanted to know everything. That's how he put it, yes - everything.
TODD: They'd never believe you.
DUSSANDER: Perhaps, perhaps not. It's a gamble. How would you explain all those books you were reading to me? My eyes are not what they were but I can still read fine print. I can prove it.
TODD: So what? I'd say you tricked me.
DUSSANDER: Why would I do that?
TODD: For friendship, because you're lonely and had no one in your life. No jury would take your word over mine. A Nazi? Forget it. Just get it out of your head. You can't threaten me and you can't scare me. What you can do is find me a pencil.
DUSSANDER: A pencil, what for? Todd sets the small paper bag on the table. Dussander opens it and removes a small bottle. The label reads: "ink eradicator." He also removes an x-acto knife and a few sheets of rub-off That will take care of the report card, I think. About that fucking letter, I don't Todd sits down at the table. He takes the bottle from Dussander and examines the report card.
TODD: That will take care of the report card, I think. About that fucking letter, I don't Todd sits down at the table. He takes the bottle from Dussander and examines the report card.
DUSSANDER: Will this do? Todd grabs the pencil. Dussander turns toward the window. He thinks for a moment.
TODD: Him? Fuck, no. They wouldn't mix with a geek like him.
DUSSANDER: How about professionally? Has he ever called them before?
TODD: No. I've never needed it. Why?
DUSSANDER: I have an idea. It will require you to make one phone call.
FRENCH: Mr. Bowden?
DUSSANDER: Mr. French, a pleasure. There is a bit of hesitation on French's part, but they shake hands. Dussander notices the shoes on French's feet, bright red converse high-tops.
FRENCH: To you, sir, I'm sure they seem quite out of the ordinary. But when it is your job to get confused sixteen year-olds to open up to you, you take whatever steps you need. Please have a seat. They both sit.
DUSSANDER: And the shoes work?
FRENCH: They seem to help, believe it or not. Well, I thank you for coming down, Mr. Bowden, but I'll be frank with you.
DUSSANDER: Yes, please do.
FRENCH: The fact that you're here and not Todd's parents tells me a great deal.
DUSSANDER: I'm sure. My son and his wife asked me to come in and discuss this sorry business with you, Mr. French. Todd is a good boy, believe me. This trouble with his grades is only Dussander pulls out his cigarettes and then, thinking twice, puts them back.
FRENCH: It's all right. There's no smoking on school grounds, but if it will make you more comfortable, I'll never A terrible habit, but thank you. I suppose I should begin by informing you that my son and my daughter-in-law are having troubles at home. Rather bad troubles, I should think.
DUSSANDER: A terrible habit, but thank you. I suppose I should begin by informing you that my son and my daughter-in-law are having troubles at home. Rather bad troubles, I should think.
FRENCH: I appreciate your candor.
DUSSANDER: ( leaning in ) The mother drinks.
FRENCH: Yes. The boy has told me that he has come home on two occasions and has found her sprawled out on the kitchen table. He knows how my son feels about her drinking and so on these occasions he has put dinner in the oven himself and forced enough black coffee down his mother's throat so that she will at least be awake when Richard gets home.
DUSSANDER: Yes. The boy has told me that he has come home on two occasions and has found her sprawled out on the kitchen table. He knows how my son feels about her drinking and so on these occasions he has put dinner in the oven himself and forced enough black coffee down his mother's throat so that she will at least be awake when Richard gets home.
FRENCH: That's bad. Has Mrs. Bowden thought about getting professional help for her problem?
DUSSANDER: The boy has tried to persuade her, but she is far too ashamed, I think. If she was given a little time. You understand?
FRENCH: Of course. Your son. Todd's father.
DUSSANDER: He is not without blame, believe me. The hours he works. The meals he has missed. They take a toll on a family. I was raised to believe that a man's family came before his work or anything else. I tried to teach my son that. but
FRENCH: There's only so much we can teach our kids, Mr. Bowden. .What about Monica's mother or father? Couldn't they talk to her?
DUSSANDER: Her mother, Sabrina, lives in a nursing home in Florida. I'm afraid after her husband died she lost her will to live.
FRENCH: Probably not the best person for Monica to speak to.
DUSSANDER: Mr. Bowden, I don't have to remind you, I'm sure, of Todd's stellar academic record. National Merit Scholar finalist, Academic Yes. I keep his certificates on the wall of my store. I run a small bookstore in San A hint of skepticism crosses French's eyes.
FRENCH: Mr. Bowden, I don't have to remind you, I'm sure, of Todd's stellar academic record. National Merit Scholar finalist, Academic Yes. I keep his certificates on the wall of my store. I run a small bookstore in San A hint of skepticism crosses French's eyes.
DUSSANDER: Yes. I keep his certificates on the wall of my store. I run a small bookstore in San A hint of skepticism crosses French's eyes.
FRENCH: ( glancing at folder on desk ) Yes, I see that. Anyway, Todd is, and I hate to phrase it this way, but he's one of the ones worth fighting for. He's a special kid, we both know that. But If Todd's grades don't improve drastically and quickly. he'll be opening a real nasty can of worms. Summer school would just be the beginning. His whole college acceptance schedule would be thrown way off course. The good schools won't know what to make of him. I'm sure he'd hate that and so would you.
DUSSANDER: Of course.
FRENCH: So let's get to the bottom line, shall we? What I'm proposing is some family counselling at the Counselling Center downtown. Everything is in confidence, of course. A man in charge down there, Harry Shumacher, is a good friend of mine. I think Todd and his parents should go see him together. It might be difficult for Todd to go to his parents with this; I think you should do it. Maybe we can get everybody on track by the end of the next quarter. It will be tough, but not I'm not sure that would be the best thing for the boy. The parents might resent him if I took them that proposal right now. Things are very delicate. To swing the scale too far in the wrong direction might cause more harm than good. The boy has promised to work harder in his studies. He is most concerned by the drop in his grades, more alarmed than you might expect. He has his mind set on attending Stanford or Berkeley next fall and does not wish to see his plans altered.
DUSSANDER: I'm not sure that would be the best thing for the boy. The parents might resent him if I took them that proposal right now. Things are very delicate. To swing the scale too far in the wrong direction might cause more harm than good. The boy has promised to work harder in his studies. He is most concerned by the drop in his grades, more alarmed than you might expect. He has his mind set on attending Stanford or Berkeley next fall and does not wish to see his plans altered.
FRENCH: Yes, well
DUSSANDER: Also, the parents would resent me. Monica already thinks I meddle too much in her I have a great deal of experience in these matters, Mr. Bowden. And please understand that my interest in your son's marital problems begins and ends with the effect they are having on Todd. And right now I think they are having quite an effect. I really think counselling is in order here.
FRENCH: I have a great deal of experience in these matters, Mr. Bowden. And please understand that my interest in your son's marital problems begins and ends with the effect they are having on Todd. And right now I think they are having quite an effect. I really think counselling is in order here.
DUSSANDER: Allow me to make a counter proposal. You have, I believe, a system for warning parents of poor grades?
FRENCH: Yes, Interpretation of Progress cards. IOP cards. The kids call them flunk card. They only get them when their grades in a class fall below the seventy percent. That means a "D" or an "F". Why?
DUSSANDER: And they are sent out when?
FRENCH: Mid-quarter. That's about three weeks into the new marking period.
DUSSANDER: Allowing for Christmas break, the next time they are sent out will be in late January, Yes, that's right.
FRENCH: Yes, that's right.
DUSSANDER: Good. Then what I suggest is this.
TODD: You what?
DUSSANDER: I told him you were getting back on track by your own accord. I gave him my word. If you get even one flunk card
TODD: Are you out of your fucking mind? I'm going to get three or four flunk cards. I failed an economics test today, so there's another Boy, it was the best I could do without arousing suspicion.
DUSSANDER: Boy, it was the best I could do without arousing suspicion.
TODD: I could have done better myself
DUSSANDER: Well you didn't, did you? This is the way it is and now you are upset because the only way you can make things right is to work.
TODD: You're insane. I'm upset because it can't be done.
DUSSANDER: It can. And it will. You will work.
TODD: I don't take orders from you. Maybe you've Listen, boy. Before today it was possible, just barely possible, that you could have denounced me and come out clean yourself. The way your nerves have been lately I don't think so, but never mind that. It was - at least technically possible. But now things have changed. Today I impersonated your grandfather, one Victor Bowden. And it was you who arranged the meeting. What would people make of that? If things come out now. perhaps you were right, your age and a good attorney might keep you out of jail, but you would be humiliated, boy, publicly. You would be infamous. Your parents too. Do you know what such a scandal would do to them? To you? Think about that. Todd is stunned. He turns away, then back again, struggling for the right words.
DUSSANDER: ( turning on him ) Listen, boy. Before today it was possible, just barely possible, that you could have denounced me and come out clean yourself. The way your nerves have been lately I don't think so, but never mind that. It was - at least technically possible. But now things have changed. Today I impersonated your grandfather, one Victor Bowden. And it was you who arranged the meeting. What would people make of that? If things come out now. perhaps you were right, your age and a good attorney might keep you out of jail, but you would be humiliated, boy, publicly. You would be infamous. Your parents too. Do you know what such a scandal would do to them? To you? Think about that.
TODD: You fucker.
DUSSANDER: It's a done deal, boy. If you don't like it, you can discuss it at family counselling.
TODD: God! I wish. I wish
DUSSANDER: Never mind your wishes. Your wishes make me sick. All I want to hear is that you understand the situation. Todd is furious. He sees there is no other way, but continues Look, you gotta believe me. There is no way in hell that I can pull myself out of a half year slide in a couple of weeks. I wish I could, but we're just going to have to think of something else.
TODD: Look, you gotta believe me. There is no way in hell that I can pull myself out of a half year slide in a couple of weeks. I wish I could, but we're just going to have to think of something else.
DUSSANDER: Boy, the time for discussion is over. This is the way it is. You are going to work. And I am going to be right here with you.
TODD: What are you talking about?
TODD: Their light is still on. I'll get out on your side. Don't say anything. Becky gets out. Todd slides over and does the same. She crushes the joint out on the pavement and puts the rest in her INT. DUSSANDER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT Dussander watches Archie collect the cans and bottles. There is something about Archie that makes Dussander wonder if he has seen him before. Archie looks up, right into Dussander's window, as if he were expecting him to be there. The two stare at one another for a long moment. Suddenly Dussander is aware that he is dressed in the SS uniform. He quickly steps back from the window. His breathing is short and erratic as he waits in the shadows for Archie to finish. After a long moment, the noise from the street stops. We hear only the faint steps of Archie walking away.
TODD: Their clothes tumble off around them.
TODD: Todd gets up and tries to free his bike, but the mud and water do not make the job easy. He is almost finished when a gruff voice catches his attention.
TODD: No. I got it. thanks. The figure steps closer. The light catches his face to reveal Archie. He is an unshaven, filthy mess, and when he speaks his words are slurred from years of steady drinking.
ARCHIE: That case maybe you could loan me a dollar. Help out a Vietnam vet? How 'bout it? Todd eyes the man cautiously. He looks around. No one is nearby. The constant din of the rain echoes within the confines of the tunnel.
TODD: I. I don't know. I don't think so. Todd palms the knife out of sight and slowly approaches the bum.
ARCHIE: C'mon, you got something for me. I know you Well, maybe. I have to check. Todd's hands go into his pockets. He stops a few feet from the See, I got to get up to L.A. Got a job waiting for me up there. Todd moves closer. Close enough to touch the bum.
TODD: Well, maybe. I have to check. Todd's hands go into his pockets. He stops a few feet from the See, I got to get up to L.A. Got a job waiting for me up there. Todd moves closer. Close enough to touch the bum.
ARCHIE: See, I got to get up to L.A. Got a job waiting for me up there. Todd moves closer. Close enough to touch the bum.
TODD: I thought I did have a couple of quarters. The bum looks at him hopefully. Todd looks back at him, sizing him up, really noticing him for the first time.
ARCHIE: You know, For a dollar I'll give you a blow job. Take you right up there where it's still dry. You never had so good, kid. You'll come your brains out. Todd freezes for a moment. The bum is right in his face. Suddenly Todd throws a handful of change at the bum and sprints back to his bike. He hops on and is gone in a flash, leaving the bum there to pick up the scattered coins. As Todd zips away, the hood is off his head. The rain begins to beat away the splattered mud from his face.
PROXMIRE: Our illustrious administration, in its quest to make my job as difficult as possible, has decided that home room teachers are now responsible for handing IOP cards for all your classes. So for those of you getting flunk cards, you'll find them attached to last week's exam. Moans erupt from the class. Todd sits motionless at his desk. The moment of truth. Proxmire passes him and places the exam face down on Todd's desk. Todd hesitates before turning it over. He is sweating. He flips the paper over and glares at the small card clipped to the top of the paper. He picks up the card and reads it: "I'm sure glad I didn't have to give you one of these for real! Great improvement, Todd. Anne Leland." Todd cannot contain his delight. Nearby students stare curiously at the strange boy beaming over his flunk card.
DUSSANDER: Well, this calls for a celebration, no? Dussander gets up and goes to the refrigerator.
TODD: Look, I guess I owe a lot of this to you. I'm not proud of it, but it's true.
DUSSANDER: ( eyeing him cautiously ) Your gratitude humbles me. ( pause ) How about some Ritz crackers and Velveeta?
TODD: Sure, what the hell. Dussander goes about his task, taking items from the cabinets, etc. Todd watches all of this intently, but without expression.
DUSSANDER: I would have expected you to be doing back flips down the hallway after such good news. You are so quiet. Todd does not respond.
TODD: I don't care. Whatever you want. Todd is wringing his hand together nervously under the table. Dussander places a box of crackers on the table and goes back to the counter.
DUSSANDER: Let's see. I could tell you about the special soap we made. Or there is always the story of how I escaped from Berlin after I was foolish enough to go back. That was a close one, I promise you.
TODD: Anything, really.
DUSSANDER: No, none of these I think. You don't seem to be in the mood. Dussander slices open a pack of Velveeta and puts it on a plate.
TODD: Then what?
DUSSANDER: Then the box is opened in the presence of a bank official and a representative of the Internal Revenue Service. The contents of the box are inventoried. In this case they will find only a twelve-page document. Non- taxable. but highly interesting. Todd understands what the old man has told him. He slams his glass down on the table and jumps out of his chair.
TODD: You can't. you can't do that.
DUSSANDER: My boy, it is already done.
TODD: But. Christ! Look at you. You could go at any time. Todd stares at Dussander in disbelief. After a moment he storms out the back door to the porch.
TODD: Then there is nothing for me.
DUSSANDER: But there is. As the years go by, as I get closer to the grave, your hold on me will become worth less and less. A man five, ten years older than I worries more about his ailing heart than being extradited to Israel. And there will come a day - if I live long enough - when I decide what you know no longer matters. Then, and only then, I will destroy my document.
TODD: But. but so many things can happen to you in between. Accidents. Sickness. You could slip in the shower, for Christ's sake. Dussander shrugs and lights another cigarette. He begins to sing softly, then gets caught up in the song. Todd turns away, angry.
DUSSANDER: Que sera, sera. Whatever will be, will be. The future's not ours to see. Que sera, sera. Pause. Dussander sees he has pressed Todd's button. He moves My dear boy, I see you thinking about it, even now. It is in your eyes. Killing me. It would take only a flick of a knife. Or maybe push me down the steps, make it look like an accident? I am old. You are strong. You are angry. Good assets for killing. But there is something missing. Dussander speaks with a near whisper in Todd's ear.
TODD: You know this means we're through. You won't be seeing me around here anymore.
DUSSANDER: No, I suppose I won't.
TODD: I'm never coming here again.
DUSSANDER: And so it comes to an end. Here. Dussander pours a splash of bourbon into the boy's glass.
TODD: What are you doing?
DUSSANDER: A drink. To our lives together, the beginning. and the end. Todd picks up his glass.
TODD: I think you should fuck yourself. He CLICKS his glass against Dussander's.
DUSSANDER: My boy, don't you see that we are fucking each other? He drinks. Todd, reluctantly, does the same.
ARCHIE: ( leaning over ) I notice the kid don't come around no more.
DUSSANDER: Little blond-hair boy. .What's the matter, you ain't his friend no more? Dussander is like stone, flashing the eyes of a man who is not to be harassed. Finally.
ARCHIE: Little blond-hair boy. .What's the matter, you ain't his friend no more? Dussander is like stone, flashing the eyes of a man who is not to be harassed. Finally.
DUSSANDER: You mistake me for somebody else. .Pardon me, my bus is coming. Dussander stands, slightly rattled only to those who know him well. He looks down the street for the bus. Archie doesn't move. Rather, he inspects Dussander from head to toe, stopping on the shoes.
ARCHIE: Damn. Cuban high heels. Nice ones, too. The SQUEAL of brakes grows louder as the bus comes to rest in front of Dussander. He has become perceptibly more nervous as he waits for the passengers to exit. He climbs up the first I ain't seen a pair like that since I was in That's the only place you can get'em. Can't get'em exported. Government don't let you. The door closes behind Dussander. The bus pulls away. Through the window of the bus Dussander watches Archie as he continues his speech to no one.
ARCHIE: I ain't seen a pair like that since I was in That's the only place you can get'em. Can't get'em exported. Government don't let you. The door closes behind Dussander. The bus pulls away. Through the window of the bus Dussander watches Archie as he continues his speech to no one.
SECRETARY: Go in, Todd. They're waiting for you. Todd approaches a door marked: "Dr. Carl N. Morgan - Principal." He goes in.
MORGAN: Have a seat, Todd. Todd does as Morgan pours over Todd's files.
FRENCH: A good break for you, Todd.
MORGAN: Looks like that little talk with your. grandfather. really helped. Well, we don't want to keep you too long. You tell him.
FRENCH: Well, it seems Sally Chong didn't do to well in A.P. biology.
MORGAN: She failed it.
FRENCH: I'm afraid so. She refused to take part in the fetal pig dissection. The teacher begged her to drop the class, but Sally thought she could pass anyway.
MORGAN: Stubborn girl. What we're telling you, son, is that because Sally Chang -
FRENCH: Because Sally Chong wouldn't hack up a baby pig, you snuck by her in the rankings. So if you can keep your grades up for two more months any reason that shouldn't happen?
MORGAN: Because Sally Chong wouldn't hack up a baby pig, you snuck by her in the rankings. So if you can keep your grades up for two more months any reason that shouldn't happen?
TODD: Then you'll make valedictorian, Todd. Congratulations, Todd. French shakes Todd's hand, an uneasy moment passes between the two of them.
MORGAN: Then you'll make valedictorian, Todd. Congratulations, Todd. French shakes Todd's hand, an uneasy moment passes between the two of them.
FRENCH: Congratulations, Todd. French shakes Todd's hand, an uneasy moment passes between the two of them.
FRENCH: Todd, you really should be proud of yourself. To tell you the truth, I'm amazed you pulled it off.
TODD: Thanks, I guess. He starts to walk away.
FRENCH: I was glad to hear you made varsity baseball. I spoke to the coach. He says your coming along real well.
TODD: It's turning out to be a good year for you.
FRENCH: It's turning out to be a good year for you.
TODD: He turns to go, but French stops him again.
FRENCH: Todd, wait. He steps up to Todd and lowers his voice, as if he were hedging a touchy subject.
TODD: I am. French's looks says, "No, you're not."
FRENCH: How are things at home? Todd realizes he is not going to get out of this easily.
TODD: Look, things with my parents were bad for a while. But they're doing a lot better. Thanks for your concern, really. I should get back to class. He is pulling away from French as he speaks.
FRENCH: ( unconvinced ) Okay, Todd. I know this isn't the place to talk about this. But my door is always open.
TODD: I know. Thanks. Todd walks away.
FRENCH: And it's going to stay open. But Todd does not turn around. French stares after him. The BELL RINGS, and Todd is swallowed by the stream of students emerging from the class rooms.
JOEY: Hey there. Todd looks up. He seems pleasant, but there is little warmth in his voice.
TODD: Pause. They look at each other. Joey wants to talk. Todd slips the chain lock into a pocket on his backpack. Joey jingles his car keys anxiously.
JOEY: I. ah, I heard about Stanford. I heard a couple of weeks ago actually. .Congrats.
TODD: I got into school to. Long Beach. It's no Stanford, but. Joey shrugs. It's an awkward moment. He walks closer.
JOEY: I got into school to. Long Beach. It's no Stanford, but. Joey shrugs. It's an awkward moment. He walks closer.
TODD: No, no. that's good, Joe.
JOEY: Well, .I just wanted to say hi. Here let me get that. Joey reaches for Todd's backpack. He lifts it. The heaviness puzzles him. Todd takes it from him.
TODD: You busy now?
JOEY: Come with me. Hop on.
TODD: Come with me. Hop on.
JOEY: Hop on? I have a car now, Todd.
TODD: You can't drive where we're going.
JOEY: This is so cool.
TODD: Point it over here. That's the middle school. You can see right into our old class Oh yeah. But I still don't see what you need the rest of it for. Doesn't your Dad The hunting rifle, disassembled, sticks out of Todd's backpack on the ground.
JOEY: Oh yeah. But I still don't see what you need the rest of it for. Doesn't your Dad The hunting rifle, disassembled, sticks out of Todd's backpack on the ground.
TODD: He hasn't yet.
JOEY: Yet?. Jesus, Todd. He is trying to joke, but the seriousness is clearly in his And over here, that's your dad's office. And there's the old drive-in. Joey isn't looking through the scope anymore. He holds it out to Todd, watching him.
TODD: And over here, that's your dad's office. And there's the old drive-in. Joey isn't looking through the scope anymore. He holds it out to Todd, watching him.
JOEY: Here. Take it. Todd grabs the scope. But Joey doesn't let go. He finally locks Todd in a stare that he has been avoiding for months. He wants to say something. Todd takes the scope. He sees that Joey is serious. He takes a few steps toward the edge, toward the gun. He looks out.
TODD: It's such a rush, you know?. To be up here. Don't you feel it? So high above them they never know we're here. It's like an ant farm. We're the gods on Mt. Olympus, Joey. They can't see us, they can't hear us, but every so often we can make them feel us. Just so they never forget. Look. He looks through the scope at the freeway. He picks out passing There goes a future track star. There goes a judge. A mom and her two kids. A policeman. That one's a school teacher, that one's a drug dealer. You see, Joey, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter how smart you are .or how many grades you skip. There's always someone who can take it all away. The right person snaps their fingers. and it's Joey takes a few steps backward. Todd doesn't notice.
JOEY: Todd, I'm gonna go. I'm gonna. walk home. Todd turns his head toward Joey, but it is as though no one is there. He looks away again.
ARCHIE: I can do that. I can help you carry those. Dussander jumps back. Archie stops.
DUSSANDER: I don't need any help. .Excuse me. He starts off again. Archie follows.
ARCHIE: Hey, I ain't a bad guy. You don't gotta worry. I'm a veteran. I just want
DUSSANDER: ( snapping at him ) What? What do you want? Why do you bother me?
ARCHIE: ( plaintively ) You got a nice face.
DUSSANDER: No I don't.
ARCHIE: Look, we're practically neighbors. I stay right over there most nights. I see you walking down the street. I come up to help. It's called being neighborly. They are nearing Dussander's yard.
DUSSANDER: Piss off. Fed up with his belligerence, Archie strips the bags from Dussander's hands with ease. Dussander knows he is outmatched.
ARCHIE: Ain't no reason to be rude. You see, I know something about you. .I know your a nice guy. I'm nice too, .just like the kid. Dussander looks up and down the street. No one is around.
DUSSANDER: I see.
ARCHIE: And I know you got some bourbon in these bags. I ain't ashamed to say I could use a drink about now. But I don't need no charity. If you want to invite me in, like a friend, we could have a nice drink.
DUSSANDER: A drink.
ARCHIE: That's what I'm saying. Long pause.
DUSSANDER: You smell like a toilet.
ARCHIE: Maybe you let me use your shower. But first a drink. After that I'll do anything you say.
ARCHIE: Yeah, this is nice. Real nice.
DUSSANDER: Let me take those. Right this way. Dussander moves toward the kitchen. Archie watches him walk away. A smile crosses his face as he follows him to the kitchen.
MONICA: I guess your parents don't need a graduation Grandma and Grandpa aren't coming?
DICK: Grandma and Grandpa aren't coming?
TODD: Grandma and Grandpa aren't coming?
MONICA: ( to Dick ) I thought you told him.
DICK: Christ, I forgot. Todd, my aunt Patty, Dad's sister, died on Wednesday. Mom and Dad have to drive up to Fresno to settle her estate. We can't ask Dad to drive six hours each way for graduation.
MONICA: If we ask them, they'll do it.
DICK: That's why. You understand, don't you, Todd? Todd thinks for a moment, realizes something.
TODD: Of course, Dad. It's all right. Tell Grandpa I'll spend the week with him and Grandma when they get back.
MONICA: What about Mr. Denker? I almost forgot about No, He won't want to come.
TODD: No, He won't want to come.
ARCHIE: Well if you're offering, I'm accepting. Dussander goes to the cellar door to retrieve another bottle.
DUSSANDER: No trouble at all. Now where is my bottle opener? Ah, here it is. Dussander pulls something out of a drawer. He goes to the table and stands right behind Archie.
ARCHIE: No. I don't mind. .Maybe in the morning - everything goes okay - you could let me have ten dollars.
DUSSANDER: Maybe even twenty.
ARCHIE: Maybe even twenty.
DUSSANDER: Perhaps. We shall see. You can relax, you know, I've done this before.
ARCHIE: You can relax, you know, I've done this before.
DUSSANDER: It's all right. So have I. Dussander raises a meat fork up to the back of Archie's neck. He starts to plunge it in just as Archie turns back to look at him. The fork goes in crooked. Archie explodes from the chair, HOWLING, his arms flailing like those of a grizzly bear. With the fork protruding from his back, Archie tosses the table to the side. The empty bottle tumbles to the middle of the floor and shatters. Archie spins and slams a fist into Dussander's temple. Dussander collapses against the counter. Archie moves about wildly, trying to grab the fork and pummel Dussander at the same time. Blood is streaming freely from his wound. Dussander grabs a frying pan from a rack of drying dishes on the counter. As Archie approaches, Dussander swings the pan into Archie's descending fist. Archie winces and staggers backward. He stomps down on the broken bottle and screams. His guard falls briefly. Dussander is upon him. He swings the pan, catching Archie squarely in the face. Archie brings his hands up to his face, which now oozes with blood. Blinded by the blow, Archie charges Dussander, who crouches to the side, and as Archie passes, hurls himself into the man's back, sending him through the open door of the cellar. Archie flies down the stairs face-first, tumbling into the packed dirt floor like a derailed train. Dussander, exhausted and bloodied, exhales deeply. Looking down at the crumpled body below, he straightens his tie, brushes the hair from his face, and then surveys the kitchen.
DICK: Monica. how long did we rent those jet skis in Hawaii?
MONICA: About two hours. Why?
DICK: This receipt says we had two jet skis for twenty-three hours a piece. The bill is fifteen hundred dollars. Didn't you look at the receipt before you signed it? Todd doesn't look up from his textbook.
TODD: Way to go, Mom.
MONICA: That bill was written in Japanese. I told you that.
DICK: Numbers are numbers, Monica, in any language.
MONICA: That guy didn't speak a word of English. I told you not to rent from him. The PHONE RINGS. Monica gets up to get it.
DICK: That's not the point. You should always read the bill before you sign. I've told you that a hundred times. Fifteen hundred dollars.
TODD: Maybe it's in yen. Pause. Dick looks at the bill.
DICK: Hey, maybe you're right. Monica comes back into the room.
MONICA: Todd, it's Mr. Denker. He sounds excited about something. You better speak to him. Todd rises from the couch. His mood shifts instantly.
TODD: ( into phone ) Mr. Denker?
DUSSANDER: Come over right away, boy. I'm having a heart attack, a bad one, I think.
TODD: Gee, that sounds exciting, Mr. Denker, but I was studying for my trig final
DUSSANDER: I understand that you cannot talk, but you can listen. I cannot call 911. at least not yet. There is quite a mess here. I need help. and that means you need help.
TODD: Well if you put it that way
DUSSANDER: Tell your parents I've had a letter, an important letter, and I need you to read it to me.
TODD: Yeah, sure. I'll be right there.
DUSSANDER: Now we see what you are made of, boy. Dussander hangs up the phone and falls into a chair.
TODD: ( hangs up ) I've got to run over to Mr. Denker's for a Is everything all right?
MONICA: Is everything all right?
TODD: Oh, he just got a letter from a nephew in Hamburg or Dusseldorf or one of those places.
DICK: I thought his family was killed in the war. Todd zips up his jacket.
TODD: So did he. That's why he sounded excited. I shouldn't be too long. I'll take your car, I don't know, you have a final tomorrow.
MONICA: I don't know, you have a final tomorrow.
TODD: I know, I was almost finished studying anyway.
DICK: Don't be gone too long, Todd.
TODD: See you in a bit. He kisses Monica on the cheek. He is out the front door.
TODD: What the fuck.? Todd moves to the center of the room, careful not to step in any blood. He doesn't know what to do. His attention falls on Dussander. Suddenly he rushes to him and begins to inspect his body carefully.
DUSSANDER: It's not my blood, for Christ's sake. What did you say?
TODD: What did you say?
DUSSANDER: It was self-defense, boy. Go downstairs. You'll see what needs to be done. Dussander points to the open cellar door.
TODD: Fuck you. I'm not going down there. What happened? What did you do? Dussander only stares back at him, then looks away, almost smiling through his incredible pain, as if to challenge Todd.
TODD: Jesus Fucking Christ.
TODD: Open the fucking door! Right now. Right Dussander shoves his chair under the doorknob. He drags the table against the door as he speaks. Todd is screaming on the other side and begins to kick at the door violently.
DUSSANDER: You give me no choice, boy.
TODD: What are you doing? Open the door.
DUSSANDER: If you won't help me, then I'll make you help me. If you don't, we are finished.
TODD: Fuck you, old man. This is your problem. I didn't do this. Open the door! Todd pounds awayat the door. Tears now stream down his cheeks. His relentless pounding has Dussander enraged. Dussander pounds back at the door to shut Todd up. It works.
DUSSANDER: Enough. Enough. Enough! If you don't stop screaming like a fucking school girl I'm going to. A surge of pain from his chest silences him. He recovers, speaking slowly and deliberately.
TODD: Fuck your document. I got nothing to do with this. Don't make it sound like I do. I came here, I saw this shit, and now I'm getting the fuck out of here. That's what I'm gonna tell the police.
DUSSANDER: Why not tell them the truth? Tell them I locked you in the cellar. Tell them I wouldn't let you out until you buried the I'm not listening to this.
TODD: I'm not listening to this.
DUSSANDER: You must be at the window, yes? As you can see I had it barred a few years ago. A bad element started to move into the neighborhood, you know how it is.
TODD: ( to himself ) Oh really?
TODD: Get out of the way. But Archie is too disoriented to move. Summoning all his courage, Todd pokes the shovel into him, as if to prod him out of the way. But when the blade of the shovel touches him, Archie counters violently, grabbing the metal end and swinging it to the side. Todd holds tightly to the handle, an act which sends him flying across the cellar. The shovel stays with Archie, and now he wields it like it were a child's toy. He slashes it viciously through the air. Todd hides under the stairs, watching Archie duel with the shadows. Todd bumps into something. Archie hears him. Through the slats in the staircase we see Archie jabbing the shovel at Todd.
TODD: Stop it! Stop it!
DUSSANDER: What are you doing, boy? It's not going to work, whatever it is.
TODD: Fuck this. Fed up, he comes around from under the stairs and confronts Archie. Archie sees him and takes a step toward him.
DUSSANDER: INT. DUSSANDER'S BASEMENT - NIGHT A shaft of dull light from the kitchen cuts across the cellar floor, revealing Archie's slain body. An expanding pool of blood seeps out from his head. As the door upstairs opens wider, the light falls on Todd standing over Archie, the shovel still in his hands, his face spattered with blood. The Todd we knew only a minute ago has been transformed. He stares up at Dussander, not with the eyes of a boy, but with those of a man. A man who can no longer be saved.
TODD: Where's the fucking pinesol? Dussander points to the cabinet under the sink. Todd throws the door open and pulls out bottles of cleaner.
DUSSANDER: Cellar. Under the stairs. Todd checks the clock, it is 9:25. He gets the bottle and a bucket and goes for the cellar.
TODD: I ought to run this through your chest, you know that?
DUSSANDER: It couldn't hurt more than a heart attack. He looks at the clock - 10:15.
TODD: Christ, my parents are going to freak.
DUSSANDER: Stay calm, boy. You are doing fine. Todd dries the murder weapon and puts it away. For a moment he slows down, a hint of a smile suddenly comes over him. Dussander sees something is different about him.
TODD: Fuck off.
TODD: Your pants are okay. The shoes. no. Todd takes off Dussander's shoes and balls them up in the tattered suit.
DUSSANDER: Is that my undershirt?
DUSSANDER: Hurry up, for God's sake.
TODD: Don't you die on me, you old bastard. Not Todd puts the mop away. He surveys the room as before. Dussander does the same. There is a strange silence as the two of them look around the room for anything damning.
DUSSANDER: I think we're okay.
TODD: Me too.
DUSSANDER: Call an ambulance. Todd turns to face Dussander. He brings his face up to his and speaks softly.
TODD: The key.
DUSSANDER: What are you talking about?
TODD: The safety deposit box. I want the key.
DUSSANDER: For God's sake, boy.
TODD: I want the key and I want to know where the bank is. Dussander cannot argue.
DUSSANDER: Hillcrest Savings on Domingo Avenue. The key is behind the clock on the mantle piece.
TODD: Sign this.
DUSSANDER: What for?
TODD: Sign it. Dussander starts to scrawl his name across the paper.
TODD: No! At the bottom. With great difficulty, Dussander does as he is told. Todd folds the paper and stuffs it into his pocket with the pen. He picks up the phone and dials.
TODD: Yes. It's my friend, Mr. Du Todd nearly bites his lip in half. Dussander notices the slip and cringes.
TODD: Yeah, he's awake. I'm really scared. The address is 9
TODD: No. I have to call my parents. Just send the ambulance He hangs up.
TODD: Just let me talk to him.
TODD: Mr. Denker had a heart attack.
TODD: Yeah, he's awake.
TODD: I did. They're on the way.
TODD: He hangs up. He sits down across from Dussander. The old man is near death, but through the slit of an eye he watches Todd. The stare between them is lethal. For a long moment this continues until.
DUSSANDER: What? What is it?
TODD: The letter. Where is the goddamn letter? I told my parents I came over to read you a letter from Germany.
DUSSANDER: A letter. Yes, we'll say it's from Willi We need a letter. I told them it was your nephew, I think.
TODD: We need a letter. I told them it was your nephew, I think.
DUSSANDER: My bedroom. Look in the dresser. Second, no third, drawer. from the top. There is a small wooden box. You will have to break it open. I lost the key. There are letters, very old ones. From a friend. All in German. None of them are signed or dated. A page or two will be fine. Todd turns to go and stops.
TODD: Are you crazy? I don't read German, you numb Why would Willi write me in English? If you were to read me the letter in German, I would understand even though you would not. Your pronunciation would be terrible, but I could All right. All right. Todd dashes out of the room.
DUSSANDER: Why would Willi write me in English? If you were to read me the letter in German, I would understand even though you would not. Your pronunciation would be terrible, but I could All right. All right. Todd dashes out of the room.
TODD: All right. All right. Todd dashes out of the room.
TODD: Goddamn you, come out. The drawer flies out, knocking Todd back. He digs through it, the contents of Dussander's fake lives spilling about the room. He finds the box at the bottom. As he expected, it is locked. Without a moment's hesitation, he slams the box down on the post of the bed frame. It doesn't open, but bits of the frame fly across the room. On the third attempt the tiny box shatters. Todd freezes, cocks his head. Outside he hears the distinct ROAR and sputter of the Porsche engine. He grabs two pages of a letter. There is nothing he can do about the mess in the room. He closes the door on his way back to the kitchen.
TODD: We hold on Dick for a moment as he takes it all in: Dussander, Todd, and the room. A hint of uncertainty crosses his face.
TODD: He started laughing at something in the letter. I don't know what it was, it's in Dick sees the letter on the table and picks it up. Todd watches him. Without much of a thought, Dick puts the letter back on the table.
PARAMEDIC: Well, we'll take care of him now. We're going to take him to St. Luke's. It's a good thing you called when you did. You saved his The medics wheel Dussander out.
DICK: You did real good, son. You did real good. Todd doesn't like Dick's apprehension. He grabs his father's hand and leads him out of the room.
TODD: C'mon. Let's make sure he gets checked in all right.
NURSE: He needs to rest now. You can come back tomorrow after ten. David approaches the gurney. Lying prone is BEN KRAUSS, 70. David kisses him on the forehead.
DAVID: I'll be back in the morning with the girls.
BEN: I can't wait to see them. The orderlies lift Ben onto his bed.
NURSE: ( to Ben ) The doctor will be in to see you in a few Thank you.
BEN: Thank you. The orderlies, the nurse and David leave the room. Ben notices his roommate in the next bed. It is Dussander, who has been watching all of this quietly.
DUSSANDER: I see.
BEN: David is very protective of me. Of course, I don't mind. I enjoy his company. A few years ago he started working with me at the university. I teach chemistry. My name is Ben, by the way.
DUSSANDER: A pleasure, Arthur. What do you do?
BEN: A pleasure, Arthur. What do you do?
DUSSANDER: I'm retired. These tubes in my arm. No one said they would itch like this.
BEN: These tubes in my arm. No one said they would itch like this.
DUSSANDER: You will find, in time, you don't notice. Ben looks oddly at Dussander. The wheels of his memory slowly, very slowly, begin to turn.
BEN: Well, we'll see. Looks like I'll be here for a while. I didn't want to alarm my nephew just yet, but this break in my leg. well, we'll see what the doctor says.
DUSSANDER: Yes, of course. But for now, you must forgive me, my medication has made me drowsy. Do not be offended if I fall asleep.
BEN: Don't be offended if I keep talking anyway. It beats wondering if I'm ever going to walk again. I tell you, my friend, the ways of God are not meant to be understood. But Ben's words are lost on a sleeping man. He continues to stare at Dussander.
TODD: He's really sick. .Please. The woman looks up at Todd, the key in his hand, then back down at the note.
BANK CLERK: I sure hope your granddaddy feels better. You can bring that in here. She escorts him to a small room where he can view the contents of the box. She leaves.
TODD: Son of a bitch. He scoops out the contents of the box and puts them in his pocket.
DUSSANDER: You shouldn't have. Todd is aware that Ben is listening, even though he is pretending not to. Todd goes to put the flowers in a glass of water. He sets the glass on the table by the bed.
TODD: They're from my mother. He sits in the chair by the bed and lowers his voice.
DUSSANDER: I had to protect myself from you, boy. Todd drags a screen over to prevent Ben from hearing. Long pause.
TODD: No, I don't think we will. Dussander looks almost hurt to hear Todd say it. Pause.
DUSSANDER: Wait, boy. There is something I want to ask Dussander waves him over with his finger. Reluctantly, Todd brings his ear an inch from Dussander's mouth.
TODD: Dussander waves him over with his finger. Reluctantly, Todd brings his ear an inch from Dussander's mouth.
DUSSANDER: .Was it like you thought? Todd pulls his head back, stands up. He contemplates the question, .confessing. He touches Dussander on the shoulder.
TODD: I should go. He turns for the door.
DUSSANDER: Perhaps. perhaps I could persuade you to wait here just until I fall asleep. This medicine makes me quite woozy. please. Todd resigns himself to stay. He picks up a magazine and begins to read, not even looking at Dussander.
BEN: Excuse me, young man. Todd is startled.
TODD: Thanks. But he's just a friend.
BEN: Is that right? Well, you are a good friend to him. Tell me, is he bad off? He doesn't talk much.
TODD: The doctors say he'll be out soon.
BEN: That is good news, indeed. Tell me, from the way he speaks I'd guess he's been naturalized, like me. Is he? Todd is starting to be wary of where this is going.
TODD: He's from Germany. From Essen. Do you know that town?
BEN: I was only in Germany once. I'm Polish. Originally, I mean, I'm from Radom. I wonder if he was in the war.
TODD: I really couldn't say.
BEN: It doesn't matter, I suppose. It was a long time ago, the war. Soon in this country we may have a president born after the war was over. How about that? Todd starts to leave.
TODD: I'm sure you're right.
BEN: Your friend is lucky to have you. A great man once said, 'No man is an island entire of John Donne. Take care, sir. Todd heads for the door. He stops, turns back to Dussander's bed. He contemplates something. waking him. He decides against it.
TODD: John Donne. Take care, sir. Todd heads for the door. He stops, turns back to Dussander's bed. He contemplates something. waking him. He decides against it.
BEN: Todd exits. Ben sits quietly for a moment, thinking. He turns on the television "The Price is Right". We hear it over the following. Ben glances over at the screen which separates him from Dussander. Slowly his eyelids begin to get heavy. He starts to nod off. But as sleep begins to envelope him, his eyes suddenly fly open. A surge of terror burns across his He sits up frightened. A single crutch stands next to the bed. He grabs it. He strips away his covers and the restraints on his leg, once or twice shoving his hand over his mouth to quell a painful scream. He gets to his feet awkwardly, hobbling, half-dragging his bad leg. Every step he takes is a study in ANGLE on the screen. It slides out of the way, revealing Ben staring down at the sleeping Dussander. In the pained struggle to keep silent, he brings his face right up to Dussander's, close enough to smell his breath.
DUSSANDER: Where's the nurse?
DARREN: My name is Darren. I'll be taking care of you from now on. I'll tell the doctor you've woken up. Darren finishes with the IV unit and goes to the door. Dussander watches him, a bit puzzled, but his eyes are closed again before Darren is out of the room.
DARREN: Did you need something?
DUSSANDER: What is going on here? Where is Ben?
DARREN: Mr. Krauss has been moved. I'm going to give you something. It will help you sleep. Darren readies Dussander's arm for an injection.
DUSSANDER: I don't want it. Who is that man? Before Dussander can protest, Darren sticks him with the needle.
DARREN: Your surgery was a success. Just try to INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING Wake up. Wake up, old man. Dussander's eyes open. The first thing he sees are three men, all in suits, standing over him. Are you speaking to me? The voice comes from WEISKOPF, 40's. His suit is dark gray, well tailored, probably European. He speaks eloquently despite an accent that shows roots of Europe and the Middle East.
WEISKOPF: ( back in English ) No one else is here.
DUSSANDER: Yes, of course, but you seem to have me confused with someone else. My name is Arthur Denker. Perhaps you want a different Weiskopf sits on the edge of the bed. Dussander notices the pin on his lapel. A small, silver Star of David.
WEISKOPF: My name is Weiskopf. You are Kurt Dussander.
DUSSANDER: I know no one by that name. Shall I ring for the nurse? Dussander reaches for the Call button and stops in horror. He looks at his hands. His fingertips are smeared with black ink. He looks up at the men in disbelief.
WEISKOPF: The man in the next bed was Benjamin Krauss. He was imprisoned for ten months at Patin. You were responsible for the death of his wife and two daughters. His identification of you was quite specific. I'm sure his reward from my government will help offset the burden of his broken leg.
DUSSANDER: My name is Arthur Denker. I am an American
WEISKOPF: Please don't bother. Your papers will not stand up to serious examination and you know The detective, GETTY, snaps a few pictures of Dussander. The other man is FBI Special Agent DAN RICHLER.
RICHLER: We have all we need here, Isaac.
DUSSANDER: Who are you men? What are your names?
RICHLER: My name is Richler, FBI. This is Detective Getty from the Orange County Sheriff's And I think you know who I work for. When you get your strength back, you will be moved. Until then, this entire ward will be under surveillance. You can expect to be in Tel Aviv by the end of the summer. The three men are out the door.
WEISKOPF: And I think you know who I work for. When you get your strength back, you will be moved. Until then, this entire ward will be under surveillance. You can expect to be in Tel Aviv by the end of the summer. The three men are out the door.
TODD: The road ahead reveals itself, uh, God, no. The road ahead. grrrr, The fucking road Monica appears in the doorway.
MONICA: Todd doesn't notice her. He stares down at the card. Finally he looks up, as if it took her voice a few seconds to register in his mind. His response is hardly audible.
TODD: What are you doing there in the dark?
MONICA: What are you doing there in the dark?
TODD: Oh, .working. Monica reaches in to his room to turn on the light. She touches the switch but then pulls her hand back. Todd is back at the note card. She looks at him oddly, worried, but then steps away from the door and goes downstairs. Todd's lips are moving, as if he were speaking to himself. He pauses. Then, in a sudden gust of inspiration begins to write furiously. He finishes and stands up, catching his reflection in the mirror above his desk. In the eerie half-light, he stares at the ghost-like image of himself.
TODD: Mr. French.
FRENCH: Hello, Todd. It's your big day, isn't it? They shake hands. French sees Dick and Monica sitting behind Todd. Before Todd can stop him, he introduces himself.
DICK: Dick Bowden, nice to meet you. This is my wife, Monica.
MONICA: Are you one of Todd's teachers? French is a bit puzzled.
FRENCH: No. I'm his guidance counsellor. A WOMAN behind Monica taps her on the shoulder.
WOMAN: Monica, I thought that was you. Monica turns away from French. Suddenly, the band strikes up opening notes to "Pomp and Circumstance."
TODD: ( to French ) That's our cue.
FRENCH: ( to Dick ) It was nice meeting you.
DICK: You too. Good luck, son.
FRENCH: I'll talk to you and your wife after the Todd and French dash off in different directions.
TASHA: Thy sacred emblems to partake - Thy consecrated bread to take And thine immortal wine! There is polite applause from the audience as she takes her seat and Morgan goes to the podium.
MORGAN: Thank you, Miss Little for that superb Pause. More applause.
TODD: We all have dreams that we carry with us. Perhaps it is a dream of prosperity, or happiness. But now, so early in our lives, it seems that all we should ask for is to be at peace with the world, because only then can we be at peace with ourselves.
RICHLER: What about this?
WEISKOPF: Yes. All photographs. Detective Getty comes in.
GETTY: You boys better come down to the cellar. You're not going to believe this.
MORGAN: Andrew Woodman. Donald Young. Karmisha Youngblood. David Zedek. Kyle Zuckerman. The graduating class of 1985. The crowd cheers as the graduates throw their caps into the air. The band begins to play.
MONICA: Mom, I don't feel so good.
TODD: Mom, I don't feel so good.
MONICA: What's wrong?
TODD: I don't know, I feel like I'm going to pass out. Can we go home?
AGNES: You looked real good up there, Todd. Todd ignores her.
DICK: Don't you want to see your buddies?
TODD: I want to go, Dad. Right now. Todd and his family start off. As they leave the CAMERA MOVES to show Ed French working his way through the crowd past the spot where they had been standing.
RICHLER: Todd, my name is Dan Richler. I'm a special agent with the FBI. This is my associate, Dr. What kind of doctor are you?
WEISKOPF: What kind of doctor are you?
DICK: What kind of doctor are you?
WEISKOPF: I'm a school teacher.
RICHLER: Dr. Weiskopf is a professor at the Judaic Institute in Munich. He is assisting the Israeli government in certain matters. He is here today, only as an observer. A moment passes between Weiskopf and Todd.
DICK: Actually, it was Todd's idea to call. He thought. we thought there might be some way we could help your investigation.
RICHLER: Todd, if you wouldn't mind, I'd like to hear about your involvement with Dussander. but you knew him as Arthur Denker, right?
TODD: Yeah. I never knew of that other name till I saw it in the paper.
RICHLER: How did you know him? Todd starts to rub his stomach.
TODD: I met him at the movies. Last summer. .He asked me where to pick up the number seven bus. He said his eyes weren't too good. .Will you excuse me for a minute? He gets up before Richler can answer walks toward the stairs.
MONICA: You okay, honey?
TODD: I just gotta use the bathroom. I'll be right He vanishes up the stairs. They all watch him go. Monica turns to Richler.
MONICA: He's not feeling well. ANGLE on Dick.
RICHLER: Todd, let me tell you what we're really interested in here. You told the admitting nurse that Denker had a heart attack while you were reading him a letter.
TODD: That's right. I was. That's what I was doing there. It was in German but he insisted I try to read it anyway. Once or twice he got pissy about the pronunciation but I asked him what did he want from me. I don't speak German. Mr. Denker. Dussander. got really excited at one point. He yelled out, "Yes, that's what you would do all right." but I didn't know what he was talking about. Then he grabbed his chest.
RICHLER: And that's when you called the ambulance, That's right.
TODD: That's right.
RICHLER: Well, this is the part we can't figure out. The letter itself, Todd. do you remember what happened to it?
TODD: I guess it was still on the table. I couldn't swear to it, but
DICK: Wait, I saw a letter. It was in German. I didn't think anything of it at the time. But, yeah, it was on Airmail stationery.
RICHLER: Then it should still be there. This is our It isn't?
DICK: It isn't?
RICHLER: Maybe somebody broke in.
MONICA: Maybe somebody broke in.
RICHLER: Why would somebody break into his house simply to steal a letter? .Unless. there was someone. someone right here in Santo Donato who would want to protect him for some reason. Maybe a close friend, or even another fugitive. I know it sounds like a bunch of Robert Ludlum stuff, but when Dussander was taken to the hospital, we think our Mr. X scooted over to the house and swiped the letter.
TODD: That doesn't make sense.
RICHLER: Why not, Todd?
TODD: Well, if Denk. if he had an old Nazi buddy in town, why didn't he come over himself and read the letter to him? If you could have heard the way he corrected me at every word
RICHLER: A good point. Except maybe this other fellow is in a wheelchair, or blind.
TODD: Guys that are blind don't normally go scooting out to steal letters.
RICHLER: ( smiling ) True. Did Dussander have any friends that you knew of?
TODD: No, not really.
RICHLER: How about phone calls? No, I heard his phone ring maybe five or six times in all the time I knew him. It was never anything out of the ordinary. Salesmen. Wrong numbers.
TODD: No, I heard his phone ring maybe five or six times in all the time I knew him. It was never anything out of the ordinary. Salesmen. Wrong numbers.
RICHLER: Did you ever hear him speak German on those No. He hardly ever spoke German. He always said he would teach me someday, but he never got around to it.
TODD: No. He hardly ever spoke German. He always said he would teach me someday, but he never got around to it.
WEISKOPF: Did he ever talk about his past? Todd looks at Weiskopf. This is the first question he has asked and Todd is more wary of him than of Richler. Todd shrugs Not really. Little bits, I guess.
TODD: Not really. Little bits, I guess.
MONICA: Well, don't you remember what he told us at Todd looks at her.
DICK: ( shutting her up ) Monica. They don't care what we know, they care what Todd knows.
RICHLER: Look, I'm sure this whole thing has come as a terrible shock. I think we've done enough for the day. He and Weiskopf stand. Dick is almost surprised that they are leaving so soon.
WEISKOPF: Thank you, Todd. Mr. and Mrs. Bowden. Weiskopf nods good-bye.
DICK: Wait a minute. Agent Richler, before you go Todd's not a suspect in this, is he? I mean he's just talking to you, right?
RICHLER: That's right.
DICK: Because Todd always thought he was helping that old man. We didn't know any of this before today.
RICHLER: Mr. Bowden, you and Todd have nothing to worry about. I assure you. Your son has been a great service to us. Thank you, Todd. For now that's all we need. Our next step is to turn that house upside down. We're bringing in some special teams to look through everything. We may come up with something. We'll be in touch if we need you. They are almost to the door, when Richler stops.
TODD: Okay, thanks. He smiles. Weiskopf opens the door and the two men leave.
RICHLER: Okay, thanks. He smiles. Weiskopf opens the door and the two men leave.
TODD: You'll be back, won't you boys? Won't you, Special agent Jackoff. You and the sheeny professor. .I know, let's show him an old army picture, that'll screw him up. .Fuck you. Fuck-You.
DICK: Everything all right, son?
TODD: Yeah. fine.
DICK: You sure?
TODD: I'm fine, Dad.
DICK: Your mother and I feel terrible. like we.
TODD: It's not your fault. Dick grabs his son and pulls him close. Todd doesn't know how to respond. For Dick, it is like hugging a phone pole. He knows something is terribly wrong. Todd stands stiff in his father's arms until he releases him.
DICK: You know we love you, don't you?
TODD: I know, Dad. He smiles at his father, comfortingly. Dick is not comforted.
DICK: Look, ahh, your mother and I are going to go down and talk to our lawyer. I don't want you to worry about a thing. It's just a precaution. I don't trust these cops. We're not going to be gone long.
TODD: Don't worry about me, I'll be fine.
DICK: Your old man is on top of things, all right? I am going to take care of this.
TODD: I know, Dad. Dick kisses Todd's forehead. He turns to leave and stops.
DICK: This afternoon, if you're up for it, we'll go do something. How 'bout it?
TODD: Dick tries to smile and goes out, the door, leaving Todd alone.
TODD: We're okay. We're okay. We're He is almost calm when he nears his house. But it doesn't last. He sees something he can hardly believe.
FRENCH: Hello, Todd.
TODD: Mr. French, what brings you to the wild side of town? The two of them are standing on opposites sides of the car. French pulls a folded newspaper page from his pocket. He starts to move around the car toward Todd, but Todd circles the other way, keeping the car in between himself and French.
FRENCH: Todd. I found something troubling in the morning news. Are your parents home?
TODD: I know the man in this picture is the man who came to see me.
FRENCH: I know the man in this picture is the man who came to see me.
TODD: It's sort of a bad time right now. Why don't you go home?
FRENCH: I will. But first I need a couple of things explained to me.
TODD: You know, Mr. French, sometimes one thing just leads to another and before you know it. things get out of control.
FRENCH: I'm afraid that's not much of an answer, Todd. When do you expect your parents home?
TODD: I don't know, Ed. You want to come in and wait? I'll put on a pot of tea. We'll talk about old times.
FRENCH: I think you might need some help, Todd. That's why I'm here.
FRENCH: Let me help you, Todd. I want to. You're too smart to do anything crazy.
TODD: Can I ask you something, Ed? You don't mind if I call you Ed, now that I'm out of your fucking school, do you?
FRENCH: You know all this crap you see on TV about forensics. hairs and fibers, that stuff? How much of it do think is true and how much is just bullshit? French is puzzled by the question. He has no answer.
TODD: You know all this crap you see on TV about forensics. hairs and fibers, that stuff? How much of it do think is true and how much is just bullshit? French is puzzled by the question. He has no answer.
FRENCH: Todd, this is silly. Why don't we go inside?
TODD: Here's a little factoid for ya. I'll bet you didn't know this one. Hairs fall out of your head all the time. But it's even worse when you're nervous. And you know what? I've been real fucking high-strung lately. Todd comes around the rear of the car and stops at the door to the back seat. He opens it.
FRENCH: Listen, Todd. Please. Todd bends down to get something from the back seat. His voice is muffled from the inside of the car.
TODD: That's how it all happened, you know. One thing lead to another and before I knew it. Todd pops back up holding the rifle, fully assembled and aimed at French's chest.
FRENCH: Whoa. To Todd rapid-fires. French's chest explodes red as his lifeless body sails back onto the grass. In the front yard, a dozen birds evacuate a tree in a panicked exodus. Todd swoons back on his heels, overcome by something. But it isn't pain, rather, it's a rush of pleasure. A laugh slips out.
