ERIC: His face is a death mask: eyes half-open and dull, lips a purplish blue, bloodless skin crystallizing as it ices over. The wind HOWLS around him. The snow sticks to his eyelashes and hair without melting.
END DREAM: 2 INT. DARK BEDROOM - NIGHT Eric bolts up in bed. Next to him, ANNE MARIE GAUVIN sits up and hugs him. All that can be seen of her in the dark is a lovely silhouette and a cascade of dark hair. After a moment, Eric kisses her. He shakes off the dream and lies back down.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: NO TRESPASSING NO HUNTING NO TRAPPING NO SHOOTING Eric walks quietly past the sign, intent on something ahead of him. Although still somewhat boyish in appearance, he's confident and resolute in attitude. His clothes have a distinctly western feel: Lucchese boots, Levis 501's, Mahan cotton shirt. His down parka is unzipped in the sunny, windless, forty-degree afternoon.
WIDER: Eric walks quietly past the sign, intent on something ahead of him. Although still somewhat boyish in appearance, he's confident and resolute in attitude. His clothes have a distinctly western feel: Lucchese boots, Levis 501's, Mahan cotton shirt. His down parka is unzipped in the sunny, windless, forty-degree afternoon.
NEW ANGLE: The tranquilizer dart finds its mark in the wolf's fleshy shoulder. The wolf takes off running, but almost immediately slows, sits, then lies down. Eric and Anne Marie hurry over to the wolf, who is breathing deeply. Eric kneels next to him and strokes his thick fur.
ERIC: What a beauty. ( to Anne Marie ) Hand me the transmitter. Anne Marie passes to Eric a tiny, weatherproof homing device attached to a steel collar band. Eric puts the collar loosely around the wolf's neck and crimps it in place, all the while TALKING soothingly to the semi-conscious animal. Anne Marie smiles at Eric's tenderness and snaps some With the collar in place and transmitter activated, Eric backs away while the wolf tries to rouse itself from its ( continuing ) He's coming around fine.
ERIC: ( continuing ) He's coming around fine.
ANNE MARIE: Be right back. I left my camcorder in the car.
NEW ANGLE: Anne Marie is taping the wolf's retreat. Looking through the viewfinder, she crosses a gully between a pipeline piling and a rock formation. Eric turns toward her and a glint of light in the debris at her feet catches his eye.
ERIC: Anne Marie! Stop! She glances down. Something metal is half-buried in the dead leaves and gravel.
ERIC: ( continuing ) Don't move. Eric runs over. He pokes at the object with a stick. With a SNAP, a steel leg trap chomps the stick in half. Anne Marie jumps back. Eric brushes the dead leaves on the ground behind her and she carefully backtracks out of the ( continuing ) Goddamn trappers! He angrily rips the trap out of the ground, unearthing several others attached to one another by a long chain.
ERIC: ( continuing ) Goddamn trappers! He angrily rips the trap out of the ground, unearthing several others attached to one another by a long chain.
ERIC: ( continuing ) Takes nerve, laying traplines on restricted land. Eric slips the scope off the dart rifle and climbs up the pipeline on foot pegs to the top of an anchoring poINT.
ANNE MARIE: What are you doing?
ERIC: He still might be around. I saw fresh tire tracks coming in.
ERIC: Man and a jeep, about a mile and a half down. He jumps into the Scout. Anne Marie stuffs her cameras into the hatchback. As soon as she climbs in, Eric tears out.
LEMALLE: Where the fuck did you drop Corbett off? In the passenger seat, MITCHELL ( 38 ), chews tobacco and looks grim. He's a squat, flat-faced Okie, with curly matted hair and tired grey eyes. He's dressed in a brown long coat and has a Colt .45 Peacemaker in a quick-draw holster strapped to his leg. Despite his intimidating air, confrontation is not his style. He spots a figure up ahead, where the road crosses a muddy He's over there.
MITCHELL: He's over there.
ERIC: Stay here.
ANNE MARIE: Be careful there're two of Eric reaches in the back seat and hands something to Anne If I unzip my parka, stick this out the window.
ERIC: If I unzip my parka, stick this out the window.
CORBETT: ( to LeMalle ) No shooting. Let's see who's so interested in us. Corbett has an incongruously affable voice. He throws his traps into the jeep, then strides closer toward Eric.
MITCHELL: ( to Corbett ) Ain't worth it, Ben.
ERIC: You got two counts against you trapping out of season and poaching on restricted land.
CORBETT: Can't be much of a crime, if all they got minding the area is a cocky kid.
ERIC: I got your plate number, asshole. Maybe you feel like spending a few months in jail. Corbett just smiles.
LEMALLE: Ben? Sure you don't want me to drop the fucker? Corbett doesn't answer. Then, his eyes narrow and he looks past Eric at the Scout.
CORBETT'S POV: The passenger in the Scout sticks what looks like another rifle out the window.
ERIC: You leave and don't come back, that's the end of it. After a long moment, Corbett smiles again, then turns away from Eric. He motions LeMalle to the front of the jeep. Frustrated, LeMalle slams back the safety on the carbine and throws it in the back seat.
ANNE MARIE: ( unnerved ) Great idea pointing a lousy dart gun at some nut with a high-powered hunting rifle.
ERIC: Bastards took off, though, didn't 16 EXT. BOREAL FOREST - LATER THAT DAY The trappers have left the flatlands of the Haul Road area. Now their jeep climbs a pathway over the rolling foothills.
LEMALLE: All this fuckin' land, and we're locked out. Makes me puke.
CORBETT: Jawing about it won't change it.
LEMALLE: Three hundred seventy-five million acres in this state. I'm real tired of runnin' into Then don't look to your left.
MITCHELL: Then don't look to your left.
CORBETT: Leave it here.
MITCHELL: Let's keep going. We're only an hour from Devil's Cauldron.
CORBETT: ( pats Mitchell's shoulder ) Relax. I just want to ask them how the hunting is.
CORBETT: Looks like you've had some luck. Where's your guide?
SPORTSMAN #1: We're on our own, if it's any of your damn business.
CORBETT: ( re ermine ) You did real good. He crouches next to the dead animals and strokes the fur.
LEMALLE: ( to Corbett ) No swinging shit. They're over their goddamned limit.
CORBETT: ( to Sportsmen ) My friend is right. Supposed to have a licensed guide when you're on this land, too.
SPORTSMAN #1: Hey, we paid our fuckin' permit LeMalle amuses himself by pissing in their campfire. No one notices that in the b.g., quiet Sportsman #3 unzips his parka, exposing a .45 Peacemaker in a belt holster.
SPORTSMAN #2: I were you, I'd drive right on outta here again. Now.
CORBETT: ( calmly ) This was my roaming land, 'til the government took it over. Only Innuit can hunt here now, and tourists, like you. Corbett swings the rucksack of carcasses onto the hood of the Land Rover. Pissed, Sportsmen #1 and #2 step closer to ( continuing ) According to tribal law, hunters passing through the land of another tribe can only take game to survive. They can eat the meat, but have to surrender the LeMalle pulls a hunting knife and holds up one of the Want the meat?
CORBETT: ( continuing ) According to tribal law, hunters passing through the land of another tribe can only take game to survive. They can eat the meat, but have to surrender the LeMalle pulls a hunting knife and holds up one of the Want the meat?
LEMALLE: Want the meat?
SPORTSMAN #1: Fuck you, dirtball. Corbett chuckles and Mitchell spits.
WIDER: LeMalle digs through the camping goodies in the back of the Land Rover, many still in their packages. He helps himself to some sandwiches and a 12-pack of beer.
LEMALLE: I say shoot 'em, bury 'em with their shiny new car.
MITCHELL: ( to LeMalle ) If you're gonna take something, take it and let's go. Corbett looks down to fasten the top of the rucksack.
NEW ANGLE: Suddenly, Sportsman #3 reaches inside his parka and pulls the pistol. He swings it toward LeMalle. LeMalle looks up when he hears the HAMMER cock. There is a deafeningly loud SHOT. Sportsman #3 falls down dead at LeMalle's feet. Off to one side, Corbett holds a huge, smoking .44 magnum six-shooter in his hand. Shotgun in hand, Sportsman #1 gauges his chances of blasting Corbett. Nil. When Corbett turns to him, he lies the weapon down. Sportsman #2 rushes to his friend. Looking bleak, Mitchell spits again. Corbett crosses to LeMalle and knocks from his hands the things he wanted to steal. Chastised, LeMalle smolders. After a moment:
CORBETT: ( to Sportsmen ) Put him in your truck. Smell of blood will attract the bears. ( to trappers ) Let's go. As Corbett walks to the jeep, he's too angry to notice that he's stepped in a patch of mud under the Land Rover. Near the jeep, LeMalle stops and pulls them into a huddle.
LEMALLE: I don't believe in leavin' witnesses behind, Ben.
MITCHELL: It was self defense. Leave it at You think those fucks will tell it that way?
LEMALLE: You think those fucks will tell it that way?
CORBETT: ( ending the argument ) We'll get a head start before they go crying to the law. Corbett turns and FIRES two rounds from his .44 into the engine of the Land Rover. The Sportsmen stare and sputter.
CORBETT: ( continuing; to Sportsmen ) You can pack out of here two, three days' hike along this river at most. Weather should hold this early in the season. Corbett and Mitchell get in their jeep.
LEMALLE: isn't yet satisfied. He walks back over to the Sportsmen, kneeling beside their fallen friend, and crouches right beside them. Intimidated, Sportsman #2 looks away, but LeMalle grabs his chin and turns his face back toward him.
LEMALLE: Think I'm pretty? You better forget how we look, 'cause next time they won't keep me from killing you. This land ain't quite civilized, you know. He unsheathes his buck knife. BELOW FRAME, he slices across the forehead of the dead Sportsman, peels back his scalp and cuts it loose, Indian-style. The Sportsmen are stunned and ANGLE ON TRAPPERS' JEEP Corbett looks at Mitchell and wearily shakes his head.
MITCHELL: At least he scalped the dead one.
LEO MEYERLING: State Legislature
CORBETT: Hullo, Sam. Slow day?
WILDER: ( wary ) Ben.boys. Yeah, real slow, and I'd like to keep it that way.
CORBETT: ( conciliatory ) Just passing through. A chubby Inupiat ( interior Eskimo ), wearing thick glasses, several heavy sweaters and battery-heated socks, fusses behind the counter. He's EARL KENAI, owner of the hot springs spa and the general store. LeMalle chews on a handful of bear jerky. Kenai stares at LeMalle until he begrudgingly pays for the jerky. Corbett pulls on some sneakers and hands his boots to Kenai.
CORBETT: ( continuing; re boot ) Needs patching.
KENAI: Twenty-five dollar.
CORBETT: ( smiles ) Sure have learned to worship the white man's god. Kenai nods agreeably and holds his hand out. Corbett pays him. Meyerling comes in and posts some fliers on the I hope I can count on you gentlemen to vote for The People's Friend this November.
MEYERLING: I hope I can count on you gentlemen to vote for The People's Friend this November.
CORBETT: Share some of that oil company money in your pocket and you can. Meyerling smiles like a toad, then slaps another poster on the wall. LeMalle throws his knife and it STICKS in the poster between Meyerling's spread fingers. Meyerling jumps back and the trappers laugh. Meyerling looks to Wilder for ( to Meyerling ) One flier comes loose and I shoot you for littering.
WILDER: ( to Meyerling ) One flier comes loose and I shoot you for littering.
MEYERLING: ( exiting; grudgeless ) Have your fun. just remember The People's Friend come election ( shakes his head ) Oil Company candidate running on that slogan makes about as much sense as a rat fucking a Hard to work up an interest in politics, way we live. You're the first people we've seen in two weeks.
WILDER: ( shakes his head ) Oil Company candidate running on that slogan makes about as much sense as a rat fucking a Hard to work up an interest in politics, way we live. You're the first people we've seen in two weeks.
CORBETT: Hard to work up an interest in politics, way we live. You're the first people we've seen in two weeks.
LEMALLE: ( to Kenai ) How about a quart of Jack How about it is right. Back in the primary this town was voted ( to Corbett ) Aw, shit. Let's go. Leave a note for Viking Bob, tell him to meet us in Cache.
KENAI: How about it is right. Back in the primary this town was voted ( to Corbett ) Aw, shit. Let's go. Leave a note for Viking Bob, tell him to meet us in Cache.
LEMALLE: ( to Corbett ) Aw, shit. Let's go. Leave a note for Viking Bob, tell him to meet us in Cache.
CORBETT: Relax. One more day without drink won't kill you. Right, I'm living proof of that sad Can we buy the Marshal some No, I better stay at my post. Even without the hootch riling 'em up, you know how mean-spirited folks get when they smell winter coming.
WILDER: I'm living proof of that sad Can we buy the Marshal some No, I better stay at my post. Even without the hootch riling 'em up, you know how mean-spirited folks get when they smell winter coming.
CORBETT: Can we buy the Marshal some No, I better stay at my post. Even without the hootch riling 'em up, you know how mean-spirited folks get when they smell winter coming.
WILDER: No, I better stay at my post. Even without the hootch riling 'em up, you know how mean-spirited folks get when they smell winter coming.
MITCHELL: So much for the walking weather you predicted.
CORBETT: Had no choice. ( pointedly, at LeMalle ) .Given the situation.
MITCHELL: I know. Least you didn't shoot all of them.
LEMALLE: Fuck you, Mitchell. Woulda been my ass if Ben didn't waste that ( after a beat ) Mitchell, look, it don't take three of us to wait for Viking Mitchell glances at LeMalle, then at Corbett.
CORBETT: ( after a beat ) Mitchell, look, it don't take three of us to wait for Viking Mitchell glances at LeMalle, then at Corbett.
CORBETT: ( continuing ) Go ahead. Take the jeep. I'll come to Cache with Bob when he gets here.
MITCHELL: Okay by me. You're the one likes these hot springs so much.
CORBETT: Leave my traps. We'll tag up, couple days.
WILDER: I was making my rounds, saw your hangar wide open, plane getting rained on, so I closed it up.
ERIC: ANNE MARIE ( to Wilder ) I bet you haven't had lunch.
ANNE MARIE: ( to Wilder ) I bet you haven't had lunch.
WILDER: ( smiles ) Bet you're right. But I didn't come by to wangle a meal
ERIC: We appreciate the company. Anne Marie's getting cabin fever Anne Marie shoots a look at Eric but doesn't disagree this is obviously an issue with them. Wilder looks with amusement at the mobile dwelling.
WILDER: What'd you say they call these Mobile Arctic Dwelling MAD.
ERIC: Mobile Arctic Dwelling MAD.
ANNE MARIE: I call it 'the Turtle,' as in carrying your home on your back.
ERIC: Best thing is, Meyerling has to chase around to find us.
ANNE MARIE: ( laughs ) The little creep hates it that Eric actually does what the company hired him to do.
WILDER: Watch it with Meyerling. Man's as mean and corrupt as they get. Cut his mother's throat if it'd get him a couple votes.
ERIC: Hey, Sam, look over there. Black and white smoke.
WILDER: Damn. Likely that's an SOS. Have to pass on that lunch.
ERIC: We'll go with you.
WILDER: Stupid goddamn greenhorns! Froze to death.
ANNE MARIE: It's not even winter!
WILDER: They got wet in the rain. Core body temperature dropped, got drowsy, probably didn't even know what was happening. Eric stares at the dead Sportsmen.
WILDER: ( continuing ) Question is why they sat here when the storm moved in. Check their stuff while I sniff around. Wilder tries the ignition. The starter TURNS OVER, but the engine makes a horrendous GRINDING. He walks to the front of the vehicle. Noticing the bullet holes in the grille, he bends down for a closer look.
NEW ANGLE: Eric opens the rear hatchback and digs through the plentiful supplies. Still in their packages are some matchbox-sized ELT locating beacons.
ERIC: They had Emergency Locater Transmitters, but didn't use ( opens one up; shakes his Maybe because they didn't bring Anne Marie opens the back door of the Land Rover. She pulls back the camping blanket. and uncovers the third Sportsman. The torn red flesh on his head and his bugged-out eyes are a hideous sight. Anne Marie SCREAMS and stumbles away.
CLOSE: Anne Marie opens the back door of the Land Rover. She pulls back the camping blanket. and uncovers the third Sportsman. The torn red flesh on his head and his bugged-out eyes are a hideous sight. Anne Marie SCREAMS and stumbles away.
WILDER: I'm too old for this shit.
ERIC: Any idea who could've done it? Sourly, Wilder points to a patch of frozen mud under the A certain sonofabitch bastard 28 CONTINUED: wearing a damaged mountain boot. Left a footprint clear as an Wilder examines the Sportsman, finding the bullet hole in his chest.
WILDER: A certain sonofabitch bastard 28 CONTINUED: wearing a damaged mountain boot. Left a footprint clear as an Wilder examines the Sportsman, finding the bullet hole in his chest.
WILDER: ( continuing ) Even for Ben Corbett, this is nasty. Man's got balls. He was sitting in Devil's Cauldron when I left, calm as can be.
ANNE MARIE: Thank God. You can arrest him.
WILDER: Not necessarily. Corbett's awful hardbitten these days. Wilder leans against the Land Rover, feeling tired.
WILDER: ( continuing ) His old roaming area's all private reserve now. Normally, long as he stays civil in my jurisdiction, I let him be. ( beat ) Won't be able to take him by my lonesome, though. Nobody in town'll lift a finger on this. Eric looks hard at the dead Sportsmen.
ERIC: ( quietly ) I'll go into town with you.
ANNE MARIE: Eric, leave it alone. It's not your business.
ERIC: ( shakes his head ) No way can he get away with this. I'll be back by tonight.
ERIC: Ben Corbett?
CORBETT: Yep. Afraid you have me at a Kenai at the general store asked me to bring these. Didn't expect we'd already met.
ERIC: Kenai at the general store asked me to bring these. Didn't expect we'd already met.
CORBETT: No big deal. We just got off on the wrong foot. What's your Eric glances down at Corbett's duffel bag, which sits on the floor next to Corbett's tub. Corbett's magnum rests on top of it, well within reach. Corbett notices Eric's interest in it. He leans back and smiles.
ERIC: New to the country, kid?
CORBETT: New to the country, kid?
ERIC: Six months. Ecological study for Northland Oil.
CORBETT: Ecology. Folks use that term for everything but what it means: who's eating who. Putting his hand on Dixie's shoulder, Corbett stands and gets out of the tub. His sinewy body, resembling a scarecrow made of steel cable, is covered with scars. He wraps a towel around his waist and crosses to Eric.
CORBETT: ( continuing ) Now, why don't you get around to saying what you want. Corbett grabs his boots from Eric and finds himself facing a revolver, which Eric has been hiding inside one of the ( continuing; smiling ) You wouldn't shoot anyone.
CORBETT: ( continuing; smiling ) You wouldn't shoot anyone.
NEW ANGLE: Wilder has come in the back way and stands behind Corbett with a 12-gauge shotgun. He kicks Corbett's magnum out of
CORBETT: All this for laying traps on private land?
WILDER: You left a footprint at the Sportsmen's camp. Only pretty sight there, Ben, 'cause the two men you didn't shoot and mutilate died of exposure. Corbett shakes his head but remains implacable.
CORBETT: Christ if I shouldn't know better than to step in soft earth. I've seen footprints in the tundra a hundred years old.
WILDER: ( to Eric ) I got it from here. Thanks.
CORBETT: ( to Wilder ) Sam, give Dixie here fifty bucks out of my kit, will you?
KENAI: Before white men came, my people lived in sod houses underground and laid our dead on the tundra. Now we live above ground and bury our dead, and we haven't been warm since. Wilder comes out of the spa with his shotgun and Corbett's duffel bag cradled in his arm. Handcuffed, Corbett walks in front of him. Kenai looks down to avoid eye contact with Corbett as he goes by. Corbett stops next to Eric and smiles.
CORBETT: Nice bluff the other day with the tranquilizer gun out your jeep window. See you again, maybe.
ERIC: ( unintimidated ) Yeah. Maybe so.
WILDER: I need to call Fairbanks. Neff just stares at Corbett.
WILDER: ( continuing ) Neff! Dial it up. State police. With a "what can I do but oblige?" look to Corbett, Neff sits in front of the RCA Alascom radio telephone and dials.
NEFF: ( on phone ) Fairbanks Alascom? Patch me through to the State Police. After a moment, he hands the receiver to Wilder. Wilder takes it, keeping one eye and the shotgun on Corbett.
WILDER: ( on phone ) This is Sam Wilder, Marshal in Devil's Cauldron. Had some killings here. I got a suspect; be real nice if someone came and took him off my hands.
WILDER: ( on phone ) Next plane's not coming 'til next ( thru phone ) Sit your suspect out in the cold. He'll keep.
WILDER: ( on phone ) This man's friends ain't gonna look favorably on his ( thru phone; Mr. Glib ) So shoot him. Won't have to feed him that way Angry, Wilder slams the receiver down.
CORBETT: Mind if I get some stuff from my Wilder does mind. He locks the duffel bag and Corbett's .44 in his desk drawer.
CORBETT: ( continuing ) Sam, listen I shot to defend my man. Other guy drew first.
WILDER: If that was all, fine. But carving him up, stranding the others, that's too fucking much. Is everything that walks, crawls, flies or swims fair game to you?
CORBETT: ( softly ) I'll get loose before that plane Don't try me. I'll kill you if it comes to it.
WILDER: Don't try me. I'll kill you if it comes to it.
NEFF: Mr. Desmond! ( grins; sticks his hand Arthur Neff. Area rep for the Federal Assistance Plan. Tell the boys in DC to keep those goodies coming.
ERIC: Snowplow, generator, TV dish. hell, we get the goddamn Playboy Channel! Here, this is for you. He hands Eric a piece of styrofoam shaped like a commode 35 CONTINUED: ( continuing ) Warm to forty below. Remember, anything you want, you ask Arthur 36 EXT. HAUL ROAD - THE TURTLE - NIGHT The storm has passed. A faint CHUGGING emanates from the small orange generator trailer behind the Turtle. Eric pulls up and parks the Scout.
NEFF: Snowplow, generator, TV dish. hell, we get the goddamn Playboy Channel! Here, this is for you. He hands Eric a piece of styrofoam shaped like a commode 35 CONTINUED: ( continuing ) Warm to forty below. Remember, anything you want, you ask Arthur 36 EXT. HAUL ROAD - THE TURTLE - NIGHT The storm has passed. A faint CHUGGING emanates from the small orange generator trailer behind the Turtle. Eric pulls up and parks the Scout.
NEFF: ( continuing ) Warm to forty below. Remember, anything you want, you ask Arthur 36 EXT. HAUL ROAD - THE TURTLE - NIGHT The storm has passed. A faint CHUGGING emanates from the small orange generator trailer behind the Turtle. Eric pulls up and parks the Scout.
ANNE MARIE: Did you catch Corbett?
ERIC: Sure did. He was one of the trappers we rousted from the Haul Was there any trouble?
ANNE MARIE: Was there any trouble?
ERIC: He was sitting in a hot tub with a hooker.
ANNE MARIE: Going after killers isn't the same as chasing poachers, Eric.
ERIC: ( grins ) Can't help myself. Corbett's type always pisses me off. ( hands her the package ) Oh, I found this at the post office. Had your name on it.
ANNE MARIE: Oh, sweetheart. It's beautiful!
ERIC: You were looking at it in the catalog. Don't know where you can wear it.
ANNE MARIE: I'll wear it for you. And I can wear it when we go home. We won't be here forever.
ERIC: ( frowning ) You make it sound like a prison That's not what I meant.
ANNE MARIE: That's not what I meant.
ERIC: It's exactly what you meant.
ANNE MARIE: Look, why get into this again. As long as it's working, let's leave it alone. It's been nice so far. We're together
ERIC: ANNE MARIE ( sighs ) Do I want to be with you permanently? Yes, I think I do. But be with what you do and the way you live? That I don't know. C'mon, Eric, until I met you, coming back to Alaska was totally out of the question for me. But I'm here. I'm getting great pictures, and I'm having fun. ( slips her arms around him ) I love you. ( kisses him ) So shut up and let's eat.
ANNE MARIE: ( sighs ) Do I want to be with you permanently? Yes, I think I do. But be with what you do and the way you live? That I don't know. C'mon, Eric, until I met you, coming back to Alaska was totally out of the question for me. But I'm here. I'm getting great pictures, and I'm having fun. ( slips her arms around him ) I love you. ( kisses him ) So shut up and let's eat.
VIKING BOB: I'm looking for some trappers. Ben Corbett, Mitchell, LeMalle. Seen 'em?
NEFF: Yesterday. Said they were going to Cache. They were thirsty, but we were voted dry.
VIKING BOB: As Viking Bob walks back to his station wagon, he notices Kenai poking around in front of Wilder's cabin.
NEW ANGLE: Viking Bob ambles over to Kenai.
VIKING BOB: These yours?
KENAI: Gonna make an offer. Man who owns them won't need them where he's going.
WILDER: Back against the bars. Now. Wilder handcuffs Corbett's hands to the cell door bars, then quickly wraps a piece of duct tape across Corbett's face, covering his mouth. Stuffing a .357 magnum in his belt, Wilder, coatless, slips As soon as he's out the door, Corbett cranes his neck and painfully tries to pry the tape off his face with the corner of the door hinge.
WILDER: Your brother and the boys left me some traps to sell for them. They're gone
VIKING BOB: To Cache. So I heard. Ben never said nothing to me about selling his gear.
CORBETT: Bob! They got me on a murder 42 EXT. WILDER'S CABIN Wilder pulls his .357 out.
WILDER: Sorry, Bob. I'll have to keep you here 'til I ship him south. Viking Bob responds by flinging a heavy trap at Wilder, then punching him in the gut. Wilder sprawls among the junk, dropping his revolver. Kenai freezes, not about to take Before Viking Bob can come at him again, Wilder grabs for his .357. Viking Bob jumps back and bolts for his car.
NEW ANGLE: Kenai helps Wilder up. Pissed, Wilder shoves him against the cabin.
WILDER: ( continuing ) You stupid, greedy, loudmouth sonofabitch! He'll have the others here in a few hours. You fucked me up, now you're gonna help me move him.
KENAI: ( shakes head ) Forget it, Sam. I never work for 43 INT. THE TURTLE - NIGHT Anne Marie sits on the floor, editing one of her VIDEOTAPES. On the monitor, it SHOWS footage of the traps under the pipeline piling. Eric comes out of the back module holding two ELT pendants. He glances over at the monitor and nods I still can't believe I'm being financed by an oil company. Especially when they get a look at these pictures. Technology in the wilderness; not too pretty. ( re ELTs ) What's that?
ANNE MARIE: I still can't believe I'm being financed by an oil company. Especially when they get a look at these pictures. Technology in the wilderness; not too pretty. ( re ELTs ) What's that?
ERIC: I thought I should check our emergency transmitters. Eric activates the ELT's. They emit an SOS pattern of radio waves three short, three long and three short. This is visible as rhythmic INTERFERENCE on Anne Marie's video
ERIC: ( continuing ) Avalanche season is coming.
ANNE MARIE: Winter. Two straight months of night we may never get out of ( kisses him ) Which would suit me fine.
ERIC: Prolonged darkness makes people Not me. I'm equipped. She turns on a small S-VHS video camera and snaps off the room lights.
ANNE MARIE: Not me. I'm equipped. She turns on a small S-VHS video camera and snaps off the room lights.
ANNE MARIE: ( continuing ) Allow me to give you a practical demonstration of low-light infrared photography. She does so by seductively undressing for the camera. She's SEEN on the MONITOR, illuminated by the "light" from the hot stove. Eric appreciates the show. He crawls toward her.
ANNE MARIE: ( continuing ) High-tech in the wilderness. Gets me excited, too.
ERIC: Come here. Laughing, he wrestles her to the rug.
HIS POV: Wilder's extended cab truck pulls out, heading west.
NEW ANGLE: Viking Bob turns and takes the literal high road a narrow trail above the roadway that Wilder's truck is on. He zooms ahead and gets in front of his quarry, then drops back down onto the road and waits in ambush. As Wilder's truck approaches, Viking Bob turns on his bright lights and crouches behind his car door with a shotgun. Wilder's truck screeches to a stop.
CLOSER: Kenai gets out with his hands up. Viking Bob slowly approaches Wilder's truck.
VIKING BOB: No answer. Viking Bob looks in the cab. Kenai's passenger is Dixie, the Inupiat hooker. Viking Bob grabs Kenai and pushes the barrel of the shotgun hard against his cheek.
VIKING BOB: ( continuing ) Where's Ben Corbett?
KENAI: I have no argument with you, Bob. Wilder said I could keep his truck if I drove it ten miles away from town.
VIKING BOB: Where did they go?
KENAI: He didn't say, but I would guess the opposite way from here. Viking Bob shoves Kenai against the truck, then punches him for good measure. Cussing, he runs back to his station wagon and drives off.
WILDER: I got an emergency on my hands. Corbett smiles at Eric as he walks inside.
WILDER: ( to Eric ) .You give us a ride in the Cessna you got hangared at the pumping station, we'll be in Fairbanks in a few hours.
ERIC: That's what we should've done in the first place.
WILDER: I could've sat tight for the transport, 'til Bob came poking ( to Wilder; re Anne Marie ) A lot to ask, dragging him away from such a good-looking girl
CORBETT: ( to Wilder; re Anne Marie ) A lot to ask, dragging him away from such a good-looking girl
ERIC: ( irritated ) To take you to jail? It'll be my pleasure.
WILDER: ( to Eric ) You better get some sleep.
CORBETT: Good idea. Flying over mountains can give you some nasty surprises. Go too low, one of the clouds might have a big rock inside it.
ERIC: ( hard ) I'll get you there all right. Eric takes Anne Marie to the rear module, leaving Wilder with his prisoner.
WILDER: Goddammit, I don't need this aggravation. I'll shoot you, Ben. Bank on it.
CORBETT: I don't want to hurt you, Sam.
WILDER: I'm not too old to knock the snot out of you!
CORBETT: Nothing personal. Wilder's mind clears enough to realize that Corbett's hands are in front of him. He reaches for his .357. Corbett butts into Wilder's midsection with his head. Amazingly, Wilder stays on his feet. Corbett hurries back to the door. Wilder lunges, bull-determined to hold onto him. Corbett smashes Wilder across the face with his clenched hands. Wilder goes down hard, hitting his head on the table, and stays there. Corbett instinctively kneels to see if Wilder is still breathing. But then, hearing MOVEMENT in the rear module, Corbett flees.
ERIC: You want to try that handgun against this rifle, go ahead. Corbett sits in the Scout for a long moment, weighing his odds. He takes his hands off the steering wheel. Eric SHOOTS again, this time SMASHING the side-view mirror and window next to Corbett's head. Still handcuffed, Corbett gets out of the Scout. Holding the .357 gingerly by the butt, he puts it on the hood of the Some day you might have to face me without a gun.
CORBETT: Some day you might have to face me without a gun.
WILDER: ( thickly ) Fetch him back? ( Eric nods ) Don't let him walk. Eric nods again. Wilder holds his gaze on Eric, then simply stops breathing.
CORBETT: ( softly ) Does he have people?
ERIC: ( after a beat ) A daughter in Oregon.
CORBETT: Send him down to her. There's money in my duffel bag, back at his cabin. Corbett's benign attitude is chilling.
ERIC: I better call in. He turns the shortwave radio on. It SPARKS and burns out. The remainder of the liquor has been poured inside it.
ERIC: ( continuing ) Thought of everything, huh?
CORBETT: Surviving is what I know
ERIC: Killing is what you know. ( to Anne Marie ) Pack some food while I prep for the flight. ( off her look ) I'm sure not gonna let him go. Covering Corbett with the rifle, Eric handcuffs him to the sturdy metal bracket of a wall unit.
VIKING BOB: LeMalle. We got a problem. Where's Mitchell?
LEMALLE: Goddamn! Viking Bob! Mitchell's inside, boring bastard. Grumbling, Viking Bob separates LeMalle from the Prostitute and drags him by the collar out of the alley.
MITCHELL: ( to Viking Bob ) .Ben never sent a signal.
VIKING BOB: Musta never got a chance to 56 CONTINUED: activate. Wilder's aiming to take him to Fairbanks, we can count on that much.
MITCHELL: Meaning he'll need a plane.
VIKING BOB: Closest planes for hire are here in Cache.
MITCHELL: Hang on. ( to LeMalle ) Remember that Cessna we saw at the pumping station on the Haul Road? Belongs to the guy they got patrolling the pipeline.
LEMALLE: There you go. Wilder's always chummy with the fuckin' It's a long shot.
VIKING BOB: It's a long shot.
MITCHELL: You got a better idea?
CORBETT: How long have you been up north?
ANNE MARIE: ( after a beat ) Six months.
CORBETT: Can't be. Too keen a sense of this place in your pictures.
ANNE MARIE: Six months this time. I was born in the Aleutians.
CORBETT: Your people Alaskan? Anne Marie doesn't want to talk to a killer, but Corbett is so soft-spoken and charming that she answers despite My dad was a Navy doctor.
ANNE MARIE: My dad was a Navy doctor.
CORBETT: Knew you had no native blood, even with your dark hair. Blue eyes give you away. My wife had blue eyes.
ANNE MARIE: She's dead.
CORBETT: She's dead.
ANNE MARIE: Had some good years. Met her in '66. She showed up one day in Coldfoot. No one knew her. One Sunday morning, she marched into a bar and announced she was available as a wife to the highest bidder. Didn't work out in three months, she'd return the money and leave, no hard ( off Anne Marie's amazed My bid was eight thousand dollars. Beautiful girl.
CORBETT: Had some good years. Met her in '66. She showed up one day in Coldfoot. No one knew her. One Sunday morning, she marched into a bar and announced she was available as a wife to the highest bidder. Didn't work out in three months, she'd return the money and leave, no hard ( off Anne Marie's amazed My bid was eight thousand dollars. Beautiful girl.
ANNE MARIE: How did she..?
CORBETT: I was gone, in September, laying traplines. She went to our cache for some meat. Got mauled by a bear. Tore open her skull. 58 CONTINUED: ( 2 ) Might've lived if she got help, but the exposed part of her brain Anne Marie shudders. Smiling good-naturedly, Corbett looks around, spotting the package Anne Marie's new dress came in.
CORBETT: ( continuing ) What about you why come back? Classy girl like you seems more suited to the finer things.
ANNE MARIE: That's why I left, moved to Washington. When I met Eric I was doing day shoots products and fashion, mostly. Pretty dull. Eric was teaching college, and then he got the job with Northland Oil. We wanted to stay together, so we talked them into funding some wilderness photography. and here I am. As she's talking, the Turtle ROCKS slightly. She looks out the tiny window.
CORBETT: You should know something.
ANNE MARIE: I don't want to talk any more.
CORBETT: Wasn't my intention to hurt Wilder. I'm telling you the truth. I liked the man. I only meant to get loose. to survive. Your cheechako boyfriend better understand that. ( beat ) Listen, I've got some money put 58 CONTINUED: ( 3 ) Eric off, Mr. Corbett
ANNE MARIE: Don't ever think you can buy Eric off, Mr. Corbett
ANNE MARIE: ( translating ) He carefully stuffs Wilder's magnum in his belt and ignores Anne Marie's disparaging look as he does.
ERIC: ( to Corbett ) Let's go.
ANNE MARIE: Wait a second.
ANNE MARIE: Maybe you should drive him into Devil's Cauldron, let them decide what to do with him.
ERIC: ( reassuringly ) Fairbanks is a three-hour flight. I'll be back by dinnertime. Realizing he's determined, she sighs and kisses him.
ERIC: ( continuing ) Be careful, okay?
ANNE MARIE: That's my line.
CORBETT: Let me out and keep going. They catch us, they'll kill you. Eric doesn't need any convincing of that. He tears out.
REVERSE ANGLE: The Scout sits idling in a depression near the creek bed, below the Haul Road. Above, the trappers speed past without After giving the trappers time to get around the next bend, Eric drives the Scout up the embankment and crosses back over the bridge.
CORBETT: They'll still catch us. All you're doing is pissing them off.
VIKING BOB: Get in. We can jump it. They hop in. He SCREECHES backwards to get a running start, REVS the engine, pops the clutch, and tears toward the As they reach the midpoint of the bridge it begins to buckle under them. With a sickening WRENCHING, the crossbar supports crumple. The jeep flies through the still-burning gasoline, becomes airborne, and SCRAPES to a rude stop on the edge of the pavement on the other side, the back wheels dangling in LeMalle and Mitchell gingerly get out and push the ass end of the jeep onto solid earth.
ERIC: How the hell were they smart enough to find us?
CORBETT: Smart? Sure. That's why I'm sitting in this plane and they're down there blowing me kisses. Eric retracts the landing gear and banks toward the southwest. Corbett notices that Eric seems a little unsure of the controls.
CORBETT: ( continuing ) Been driving long?
ERIC: I needed a pilot's license to take the job here, so I got one in six weeks.
CORBETT: That makes the flight more Eric ignores the jibe. He stays at 2,000 feet, making the landscape all the more immediate. Corbett stares out the window and broods. He spots an open, snow-covered area where some dark blotches mar the ( continuing ) See the blood? Pack of wolves took down a moose. Greedy, gut-ripping sons of bitches. I'd kill the last wolf on earth, right in front of the President of the U.S. Stinking, cowardly predator, the wolf.
CORBETT: ( continuing ) See the blood? Pack of wolves took down a moose. Greedy, gut-ripping sons of bitches. I'd kill the last wolf on earth, right in front of the President of the U.S. Stinking, cowardly predator, the wolf.
ERIC: Sounds like professional Hunting and trapping was a damn fine life. ( beat ) Me and Mitchell, Bob and LeMalle, we were teams. I'd always go with Mitchell. Good man, Mitchell. I'd let Bob worry about goddamn LeMalle. We'd hire a plane in October. On the way to a dirt airstrip somewhere, we'd drop supplies. We'd land, tell the pilot to come back for us a few days before Christmas.
CORBETT: Hunting and trapping was a damn fine life. ( beat ) Me and Mitchell, Bob and LeMalle, we were teams. I'd always go with Mitchell. Good man, Mitchell. I'd let Bob worry about goddamn LeMalle. We'd hire a plane in October. On the way to a dirt airstrip somewhere, we'd drop supplies. We'd land, tell the pilot to come back for us a few days before Christmas.
CORBETT: The idea was to get to the supplies before the bears did. Along the route we'd set our traps. Made our year's living in three months. Corbett spots a flat plateau farther in the mountains, above the tree line.
CORBETT: ( continuing ) Lot of times we didn't even have a landing strip. We'd set down on a plateau, like that one there. Yeah, that one's easy; you could glide right in. Suddenly, he turns in the seat and pins Eric against the door with his left foot. The plane flies erratically. With his right foot, Corbett kicks the fuel jettison lever on the instrument panel, jamming it on.
CORBETT: Hope you got your money's worth on those lessons.
WIDER: Eric tries to stand. He cries out and falls into the powdery snow, clutching at his ankle.
ERIC: Stay put!
CORBETT: You got the belly to look me in the eye and pull the trigger? Eric cocks the gun's hammer with his thumb.
ERIC: Be no different than shooting a rabid dog. The men face off for a tense moment. Corbett smiles and zips up his jacket, dispelling the tension. Letting the hammer down, Eric looks back at the burning plane.
ERIC: ( continuing ) Next time you want to kill yourself, don't include me.
CORBETT: I took the odds on getting down in one piece, and I made it. Now we're in my territory.
ERIC: With light clothing and no supplies, this is nobody's You sound like the tourists. Know-it-alls who read about survival in a magazine. Fuck you. You won't make it off this Corbett drops his facade of conviviality. Eric is too angry to be intimidated. He takes the scarf from around his neck and wraps his ankle with it.
CORBETT: You sound like the tourists. Know-it-alls who read about survival in a magazine. Fuck you. You won't make it off this Corbett drops his facade of conviviality. Eric is too angry to be intimidated. He takes the scarf from around his neck and wraps his ankle with it.
ERIC: Let's go.
CORBETT: ( re Eric's ankle ) I'm not gonna carry you out of That's right. You're not.
ERIC: That's right. You're not.
CORBETT: Look, take these cuffs off. We need to work together.
ERIC: Forget it. Eric holds his wristwatch up, points the hour hand at the sun, counts forward to noon, and, accordingly, makes an approximation of their direction.
ERIC: ( continuing ) Last time I checked the flight plan, we were forty miles northeast of Devil's Cauldron. Southwest is that way. No sense waiting for a goddamn taxi. Grimacing with pain, he gets up. Clutching the magnum, he shoves Corbett in front of him and starts walking. Corbett frowns it's tough to trudge through the snow with his arms cuffed tightly behind his back. Eric looks around and tries not to let his emotions register on his face. They wouldn't be farther from the rest of humanity on another planet. Smelling fear on Eric, Corbett enjoys the view. And waits.
ERIC: It'll be interesting, trying to build a fire without any wood.
CORBETT: Welcome to the environment, Mr. Ecology. Out here, one mistake is all you get. Determined and dour, Eric pushes on.
CORBETT: ( continuing ) Why in hell you care enough about me to die taking me in?
ERIC: I don't plan on dying. It's all academic. The sheer magnitude of the surroundings makes them feel they're the only people in the world.
ERIC: We'll stop here, dig out a snow Snow shelter. Okay. You dig. I'll have a little sit-down. Corbett sits on his haunches and smiles while Eric digs near the rocks. Although he knows Corbett is testing his every move, Eric refuses to let his patronizing air get to him.
CORBETT: Snow shelter. Okay. You dig. I'll have a little sit-down. Corbett sits on his haunches and smiles while Eric digs near the rocks. Although he knows Corbett is testing his every move, Eric refuses to let his patronizing air get to him.
CORBETT: ( continuing ) Even in the drifts, this snow's too powdery to make a shelter. When you're done jerking around, reach down the back of my coat. Eric approaches him suspiciously. He puts his hand down through Corbett's collar. Something is stowed inside a homemade flap in the lining of his coat. Eric pulls out a
CORBETT: Still quite a hike to Devil's ( beat ) Days. A long stretch to go without sleep, my friend. You can hide behind that pistol for now, but take your eyes off me long enough to sneeze
ERIC: Turn around. While poking the .357 in Corbett's ribs, Eric one-handedly unlocks Corbett's right manacle, pulls his arm through the granite elbow, then locks it back up again. He's learning.
END DREAM: 100 EXT. ENDICOTT MOUNTAINS - DAWN The sun peeks over the mountain tops, drenching them with light and color.
CORBETT: Ice is too thin you can see the water moving underneath.
ERIC: We're not sitting here 'til November. There's a cargo plane coming to Devil's Cauldron in four days, and I'm putting you on We get wet, we freeze to death in a couple hours.
CORBETT: We get wet, we freeze to death in a couple hours.
ERIC: I've been on ice like this when I was a kid, skating. Spread your weight, keep moving. Go on. Corbett is not about to be outdone in the guts department by someone with a Master's Degree.
CORBETT: ( gestures 'you first' ) Be my guest.
ERIC: ( points .357 ) I'm right behind you. Frowning, Corbett tentatively steps onto the ice and inches across the fifteen feet to the other bank.
NEW ANGLE: He turns and, indeed, Eric is right behind him.
CORBETT: Wait 'til I'm across! Eric doesn't want to be too far from his prisoner. He keeps coming. The ice GROANS and HISSES under their weight. Corbett is three feet from solid ground. He drops to his knees, then stomach, and rolls like a log the rest of the Eric splays out on the ice and crabwalks across. The ice makes an ominous CRACKING and water begins to seep through air holes. Standing, Corbett weighs his chances of bolting from Eric. Eric crawls doubletime. He makes it onto solid ground just as the ice under him breaks off in a big, thin, clear plate.
CLOSER: Eric sits on some rocks. Corbett glares it him.
CORBETT: Most dangerous thing in the world: A regular Joe, in over his head. You trying to prove how tough you are for me, or for It wasn't my idea to crash the Let's camp. There's grayling under this ice. I'll snare some for dinner.
ERIC: It wasn't my idea to crash the Let's camp. There's grayling under this ice. I'll snare some for dinner.
CORBETT: Let's camp. There's grayling under this ice. I'll snare some for dinner.
ERIC: ( standing ) We've got another two hours of Pushing it is flat wrong. All you prove is your ignorance about breaking trail. Eric is not convinced. Grumbling, Corbett gets up and takes the lead as they continue southward.
CORBETT: Pushing it is flat wrong. All you prove is your ignorance about breaking trail. Eric is not convinced. Grumbling, Corbett gets up and takes the lead as they continue southward.
MEYERLING: I've been trying to raise you on the shortwave for two days. He pushes past Anne Marie and goes into the Turtle.
ANNE MARIE: Have you talked to Eric?
MEYERLING: I have not, but I very much want to. What do you know about the trouble in Devil's Cauldron?
ANNE MARIE: I was hoping you had some news
MEYERLING: Get this straight: I'm the District Supervisor. Whatever you do reflects on me. It wasn't my idea to bring you people up here, but I'm stuck with you. You are absolutely not to involve yourself in any local disputes. Whichever side you take, you alienate the other. Mr. Corbett is quite well-known in this region. People admire him
ANNE MARIE: Corbett's a killer.
MEYERLING: I don't care if Ben Corbett makes meatloaf out of nuns and babies, he's not your concern. Anne Marie just glares at him. Meyerling examines the damaged shortwave.
MEYERLING: ( continuing ) What happened here?
ANNE MARIE: The radio's on the fritz.
MEYERLING: Where'd you say Eric is?
ANNE MARIE: Somewhere along the pipeline.
MEYERLING: What about that hotheaded marshal, Sam Wilder? I heard he was in the middle of this mess.
ANNE MARIE: Sam? We haven't seen him.
MEYERLING: Really. I thought maybe that was his snowmobile outside. ( beat ) By the way your truck also 'on the fritz?'
ANNE MARIE: ( blanching ) It's out by the pumping station, shot full of holes. Noting Anne Marie's distressed reaction to this news, he crosses to the door.
MEYERLING: It's out by the pumping station, shot full of holes. Noting Anne Marie's distressed reaction to this news, he crosses to the door.
MEYERLING: ( continuing ) Still nothing to tell me? ( no reply ) Suit yourself.
CORBETT: Have to backtrack, find another way down.
ERIC: Forget it. It would take days.
CORBETT: ( assessing the drop ) Going to be a bit of a challenge with handcuffs on. Eric realizes he's right. After some deliberation, Eric cautiously approaches him. With the .357 cocked and ready, he undoes one of the cuffs, leaving them hanging from Corbett's wrist. He then unthreads the nylon twine from Corbett's tarp.
CORBETT: Better get into those trees before that squall blows down. Then, Corbett pauses as a walloping sound ECHOES across the Just ahead, two enormous bull moose are fighting. They ram each other with six-foot-wide antlers. Corbett stares, transfixed, admiring.
CORBETT: You talk about ecology there it is.
MINER #1: Where's Ben at?
MITCHELL: You'll want to hear about it with a drink in your mitt.
MINER #1: .Figures, Corbett getting hauled off by a Federal marshal. God almighty, how I hate the U.S. We should pass a hat. Send Corbett a few bucks. We owe him. Someone's hat comes off. It quickly gets filled with bills.
LOGGER: We should pass a hat. Send Corbett a few bucks. We owe him. Someone's hat comes off. It quickly gets filled with bills.
MINER #1: Government and business. They ruined this state. ( re Meyerling poster ) Like that little weasel, for 'People's Friend,' my lily-white 109 CONTINUED: butt. I heard Northland got a conservation program, up along the pipeline.
LOGGER: Hold it. Meyerling told me that stuff's nothing but P.R. for the TV and papers down in Juneau.
LEMALLE: He's full of shit. We got run out of there by some fuckhead driving a Northland truck.
NEW ANGLE: Viking Bob hurries in and whispers something in Mitchell's ear. Mitchell shoots LeMalle a look and gets up. The threesome hastily exit, leaving behind the hat full of 110 INT. BEAR SIGN INN Viking Bob, Mitchell and LeMalle stand in a quiet corner near the front door.
VIKING BOB: I called the cops in Fairbanks, see when Ben is standing trial. They don't know shit about Ben or Get the fuck out of here.
LEMALLE: Get the fuck out of here.
VIKING BOB: It's a three-hour flight. They shoulda got there yesterday.
LEMALLE: Maybe they went back to Devil's Naah, Wilder knows we got friends in town.
MITCHELL: Naah, Wilder knows we got friends in town.
VIKING BOB: That plane might've been to throw us off the track. Remember the bait-and-switch Wilder pulled with the Eskimo and his truck?
LEMALLE: Wilder still woulda made Fairbanks by now. Fuck a duck! Ben musta got loose.
VIKING BOB: Okay, let's backtrack, try to pick up his trail. You know the kid out on the pipeline that Wilder's buddies with?
MITCHELL: ( smiles ) We were just talking about him.
CORBETT: ( shouts over WIND ) Just gather birch. It'll smoke like hell, but it'll burn green. Awestruck by the intensity of the storm, Eric tears branches from birch trees and piles them in Corbett's handcuffed They hurry back to the nylon tarp, strung between two tree trunks, FLAPPING violently in the storm. Hunching against the wind, Eric pulls off his gloves and reaches in his pocket for some precious matches. His fingers are so cold he can't hold them, and he drops several in the wet snow. Angry, he shoots a look at Corbett. Corbett is holding his hands inside his coat. He pulls them out and quickly takes the remaining matches from Eric. Crouching down, back to the wind, Corbett grasps a match between his numb fingers and awkwardly strikes it. He holds the flame next to the kindling. It doesn't catch fire immediately. Corbett lets the match burn out against his fingers. He tries another match. This time, a flame takes hold but could succumb to the wind at any moment. On his knees and elbows, Corbett nurses along the tiny fire. Eric can't control his shivering. He gets on his knees next to Corbett and holds his coat open to further baffle the wind. Corbett keeps his hands cupped around the flame, not
END MONTAGE: 112 EXT. / INT. NYLON SHELTER - NIGHT Corbett and Eric sit under the nylon shelter. The STORM rages outside. Eric empties his pockets of Eskimo potato, reindeer lichens, bistsort sorrel and other plants for his Corbett has fashioned a snare from his boot laces and a tree branch, and placed some crushed roots as aromatic bait next to a small animal burrow outside the shelter. A squirrel sticks his nose out of the burrow to investigate. Corbett sits catlike, ready to pounce. Eric grimaces as Corbett yanks on the snare and the squirrel's SQUEALS ( OS ) abruptly cease.
CORBETT: I need your pocket knife. ( Eric hesitates ) I have to eat, too. After a beat, Eric pulls open the small blade on his Swiss Army knife and pushes it with his foot to Corbett. Smiling, Corbett admires the fancy knife. Then, BELOW FRAME, he skins and guts his catch.
CORBETT: ( continuing ) Damn lucky this storm didn't blow down when we were on those baldheaded mountains. It continues, we better stay put.
ERIC: It could blow over tomorrow, too.
CORBETT: I'm still figuring: You're either real brave or real dumb.
ERIC: I just want this over with.
CORBETT: ( laughs ) Where in hell Meyerling dig you You know Meyerling?
ERIC: You know Meyerling?
CORBETT: Sure. The People's Friend. Kiss your ass with precision if there's a vote in it. Corbett eats the squirrel Eskimo-style. Raw. He uses the knife like a native, too, holding the meat in his teeth, then expertly cutting off a mouthful with a quick slice. Eric stares, disgusted. Off his look:
CORBETT: ( continuing ) Always eat your meat raw when the weather's cold. Does you more good, long as the entrails look Corbett uses snow and the squirrel's fur to wipe the blood from his face, then wipes the knife off and lays it, open, next to his leg.
ERIC: I'll hold onto that. With a wry smile, Corbett pushes it back over to Eric. While Eric eats his dinner, Corbett listens to the STORM and watches him eat.
CORBETT: Sure love to know where you fit in up here.
ERIC: I'm here to do my job.
CORBETT: You want to fool yourself about that bullshit job, fine. Damn shame you have to drag your girlfriend along. You think a woman like that will be happy making moose stew for a man 113 CONTINUED: ( 2 ) making your salary? Look, I'll give you five grand. Take the money and go home where you both Don't fucking insult me. Corbett smiles maybe he's beginning to understand Eric.
ERIC: Don't fucking insult me. Corbett smiles maybe he's beginning to understand Eric.
CORBETT: Folks come to Alaska for a real short list of reasons: Money. Adventure. Solitude. Those cover most everyone. But frontiers also draw another type of man. One with a demon in his gut. He comes to the edge of the world to face that demon, and lay it to rest.
ERIC: Yep. Sometimes they do, but usually they end up crazy or Eric ponders Corbett's words as he eats.
CORBETT: Yep. Sometimes they do, but usually they end up crazy or Eric ponders Corbett's words as he eats.
NEW ANGLE: A foraging GRIZZLY sniffs around, attracted by the smell of fresh carrion Wilder. Eight feet tall and eleven-hundred pounds, it's used to having its way. Right now, it's With a casual swipe of its paw, its massive claws puncture the Turtle's aluminum skin, popping open the door of the utility compartment. The bear pokes its head inside, and Wilder's body slumps out into the snow. The bear pushes at the corpse with its snout. Salivating, it prepares to dig Anne Marie looks around, wondering what the hell to do nEXT. Wilder's snowmobile is a few yards behind her, parked against the side of the Turtle. She inches toward it. Testily, the bear looks up, SNIFFING loudly. Keeping her eyes on the bear, Anne Marie feels for the snowmobile ignition keys. They're not there. She feels around inside the saddlebags and finds three emergency road Anne Marie IGNITES the flares. They illuminate the area with an eerie reddish glow. She YELLS at the bear, wields the flares like Excalibur and moves forward. The bear, reluctant to leave so hearty a pre-hibernation meal, GROWLS and cocks its head back and forth to assess the threat. As Anne Marie inches ahead, the bear stands on hind legs to its full height to meet the challenge.
WIDER: The bear gets a muzzle full of the stuff. HOWLING unhappily, it backs away, GRUNTING and SNEEZING. Greatly offended, its appetite gone, it lopes into the forest. Anne Marie squirms out from under the Turtle and, gagging from the horrible smell, pulls off her wet parka.
CORBETT: There's a cabin, maybe twenty miles south of here.
ERIC: ( kneels to adjust his ankle Too bad we're heading west.
CORBETT: There's a snowmobile. Inside a day we could be on the Yukon. I got money there. Remember that five thousand? Make it ten. Be smart. Take it and walk away.
ERIC: ( bristling ) You don't get it, do you? Corbett takes advantage of Eric's poor peripheral vision from the visor by kneeing Eric in the face. Eric falls backwards into the snow. Corbett takes off like a jackrabbit. Eric spits out some blood, shakes the stars out of his eyes and yanks the .357 from under his coat.
ERIC: ( continuing ) Corbett bounds through the snow, dodging trees and snow-covered rocks. Eric squeezes off a SHOT, and is startled by the recoil and the blast. He scrambles to his feet and SHOOTS again. Corbett zigzags and disappears from sight over a snowbank.
ERIC: hobbles after him, CUSSING bitterly to himself.
CORBETT: crawls to solid ground. Disoriented from the shock to his system, he rolls over to catch his breath.
WIDER: Eric appears over a snowbank. Corbett tries to run, but his frozen, waterlogged legs feel like pig iron. Stumbling and panting, he looks for a safe place to cross the stream. Eric easily catches up to him. Corbett sits in the snow, shivering. He looks up as Eric trots over. Eric glares at Corbett and rubs the bruise on his cheek.
CORBETT: Nothing personal. Just wanted to see what you'd do. Noticing Corbett's sopping legs, Eric becomes furious.
CORBETT: ( continuing ) Have to get these wet things off.
ERIC: You're not going to slow us down! Keep moving!
CORBETT: Inside of three hours you'd be dragging my dead carcass. Fuming, Eric helps Corbett up.
ERIC: Stay awake! You want to go If that means freeze my balls off, no thanks. ( yawns ) I'll be okay. Eric examines him. Corbett's skin is white and rigid, his lips are pale blue. He scowls at Eric.
CORBETT: If that means freeze my balls off, no thanks. ( yawns ) I'll be okay. Eric examines him. Corbett's skin is white and rigid, his lips are pale blue. He scowls at Eric.
CORBETT: ( continuing ) Told you I'm fine!
ERIC: ( holds up three fingers ) How many do you see?
CORBETT: ( irritable ) What?! Fuck off. Save yourself.
ERIC: You don't feel cold?
CORBETT: It's a spring day. He starts to doze off. The shivering he's been repressing now racks his body. Eric sits him up, closer to the fire, and puts his own parka over Corbett's shoulders. With his foot, Eric rolls some hot rocks bordering the fire closer to
ERIC: Wake up, goddammit! You've got classic hypothermia crankiness, fatigue, can't feel your coldness. Worst thing you can do is fade out. Corbett is headed someplace far away. Sighing, Eric turns him so his back faces the fire. He unbuttons Corbett's shirt, then unbuttons his own shirt and lies across Corbett. Eric gasps Corbett feels like a slab of ice. Corbett's teeth chatter. He's completely unconscious.
ERIC: ( continuing ) One more thing this doesn't mean we're going steady.
ERIC: Stay still.
CORBETT: Where's my ELT?
ERIC: Emergency transmitter? All your gear is back at Wilder's.
CORBETT: You got one?
ERIC: It was blown up with the plane.
CORBETT: Too bad. We'd be out of here in a few hours.
ERIC: How? Nobody this far north monitors that frequency until avalanche season. ( beat ) Besides, I'm surprised a tough guy like you uses fancy I'm surprised a flat-ender like you knows cold-weather remedies.
CORBETT: I'm surprised a flat-ender like you knows cold-weather remedies.
ERIC: Read a lot of adventure stories when I was a kid. Corbett smiles.
CORBETT: I'm hungry. Go kill me some An appetite. Maybe you won't die after all.
ERIC: An appetite. Maybe you won't die after all.
CORBETT: Hate to disappoint you.
CLOSER: Flashlight in hand, wearing one of Eric's coats, Anne Marie refuels the generator. Something catches her eye
ANNE MARIE: ( grinning ) It's about time. She hurries back into the Turtle.
VIKING BOB: He shrugs to the others, then tries the door. It's Mitchell gets out of the jeep, spits and follows the others in, his hand close to the Colt Peacemaker strapped to his 127 INT. THE TURTLE Anne Marie climbs out a window in the back. She closes it behind her just as Viking Bob pokes his head in the rear The trappers snoop around, noticing that the coffee pot is still warm, etc. The emptiness is ominous. LeMalle picks up the big Remington bear rifle. He opens the breech to determine if it's loaded, and sniffs the barrel to see if
VIKING BOB: Somebody left in a big hurry. ( to LeMalle ) Check outside.
NEW ANGLE: In the back, Anne Marie drags an evergreen tree branch behind her to cover her tracks in the snow, then climbs into the utility compartment where Wilder's body was stored. A moment later, LeMalle comes around the corner. He notices bear tracks and scat from the prior night's visit.
LEMALLE: ( calls out to others ) Grizzly sign. Looks fresh. Viking Bob and Mitchell converge with LeMalle. They point their flashlights around, spotting footprints and marks going off into the woods.
NEW ANGLE: The light REVEALS Wilder's feet swinging back and forth above their heads. His body is suspended in the manner of a trail cache. Viking Bob lets out a startled grunt. He and Mitchell shine their lights on Wilder's face.
MITCHELL: It's Sam Wilder!
VIKING BOB: Musta wanted to keep him from the bears. If Ben killed him, he sure as hell wouldn't hang him up like this.
MITCHELL: Where's the kid?
LEMALLE: Who gives a husky fuck? Where's The trappers look glumly at one another.
MITCHELL: I should get me a job with an oil He sits on the couch and lays his scrimshaw and engraving tools out on the coffee table. LeMalle helps himself in the well-stocked larder.
LEMALLE: I say we eat, torch this fuckin' thing, and move on. LeMalle digs through the cupboards and comes up with a fresh bottle of Scotch.
VIKING BOB: Go easy.
LEMALLE: Cool out. I ain't about to get 132 EXT. THE TURTLE - LATER THAT NIGHT Flashlight in hand, gloriously drunk, LeMalle stumbles outside. He crosses to the jeep to grab a box of Twinkies and, as long as he's at it, take a leak in a snowbank. Bleary-eyed, he notices the damage to the utility compartment inflicted by the bear. He walks to it, stepping over the bear scat. He marvels at the size and depth of the clawmarks.
LEMALLE: Big mother musta wanted something real bad in here. LeMalle tries the door, but it's jammed shut. He tucks his flashlight under his arm and gives another tug. This time the door cracks open.
WIDER: LeMalle jumps back, startled, and pulls out his knife. He tries the door again. It WRENCHES open. .He's looking at his own face in one of Anne Marie's mirrored photo reflector boards. Letting his breath out, LeMalle pokes around the equipment in the compartment. Ever larcenous, he pulls a few items out, examines them, and, disinterested, leaves them in the snow. Doing so, he comes close to uncovering Anne Marie, who sits motionless and terrified in the back of the Nothing in the compartment catches LeMalle's fancy. Leaving the door hanging open, he wanders away.
CORBETT: Used to see the natives eating roots when I was a kid in Nome.
ERIC: Nome? I figure you'd be a whaler, coming from there.
CORBETT: Told that's what our old man was. Planned on going to sea, me and Bob, 'til I read Jack London. Started trapping when I was ten. Mailed the furs to Sears. Eight bucks for a skunk, three for a ( off Eric's look ) That was fine money.
ERIC: Killing wildlife not good enough anymore, so you go on to bigger and better things.
CORBETT: You got a knack for seeing things the way you want to see them. They walk in silence. Corbett tightens the tarp against the cold air and looks at Eric.
CORBETT: ( continuing ) Don't judge me. You're a joke, coming here from a fucked-up culture, telling us what to do!
ERIC: Yeah, it is fucked up but it's not too late to keep that from happening here.
CORBETT: ( temper flaring ) All you do is keep folks from working the land, living like they're meant to. You don't understand shit! Trappers, hunters we're part of the environment. Who's protecting ( sourly ) I've seen plenty like you. So 134 CONTINUED: ( 2 ) full of yourselves there's no room for other people's way of What do you know about people? You live like an animal! A savage goddamn throwback like you belongs out here, as far away from the rest of us as possible.
ERIC: What do you know about people? You live like an animal! A savage goddamn throwback like you belongs out here, as far away from the rest of us as possible.
CORBETT: I'm real sad you don't approve of He shoves Eric with his handcuffed hands.
CORBETT: ( continuing ) Tell me what I should do, Professor. You got all the answers. I shouldn't hunt? Fine, I'll just phone up and have a salad delivered. Livid, Eric backs away and knocks Corbett's hands away from Don't push me..!
ERIC: Don't push me..!
CORBETT: Cowardly bastard. I'm in handcuffs and I still scare the piss out of you. Eric smashes his fist into Corbett's face. Corbett reels back, more surprised than hurt. Eric moves in, furiously throwing punches. Corbett plows his clenched fists into Eric's midsection, doubling him over. Gasping, Eric rams his head into Corbett and they fall into the snow. Despite the handcuffs, Corbett gets a few blows in. They wrestle fiercely, and Eric ends up on top of Corbett. He's about to throw another punch when Corbett looks up at him.
CORBETT: ( continuing ) First you save my ass, now you want to kill me. Make up your goddamn mind.
NEFF: Wilder's missing church services; you believe it?
KENAI: I just as soon he stay gone. Fool could've got us all killed, arresting Ben Corbett here in 139 EXT. FOOTHILLS ABOVE DEVIL'S CAULDRON - DAY Exhausted, Corbett and Eric climb across the last set of foothills before the Devil's Cauldron valley. The town comes into view below them; faintly the MUSIC carries from below. Corbett looks at Eric and breaks the silence:
CORBETT: What makes you so sure my boys won't be waiting for us?
ERIC: They think you're in Fairbanks. If not, they still won't find you before the plane comes tomorrow.
CORBETT: Don't bet on it.
ERIC: I already have.
CORBETT: You don't know how true that is. Eric sweeps the snow from between two rocks and sits down.
ERIC: We'll wait here until nightfall. No fire, no tarp. Corbett sits next to him. After a long moment:
CORBETT: Didn't mean it, you being a coward. You're a lot of things, but chickenshit isn't one of Maybe.maybe not. I'll tell you what scares me stumbling through life, like an ordinary jerk. That's why I want to work on the front lines, where what I do means something. ( beat ) Soon as I got here, I realized my job was bullshit. Oil company propaganda. I was ready to leave, then I thought screw it, I'll outsmart them, do the work ( beat ) I don't know anymore. Maybe I am fooling myself. That's what I'm afraid of most of all.
ERIC: Maybe.maybe not. I'll tell you what scares me stumbling through life, like an ordinary jerk. That's why I want to work on the front lines, where what I do means something. ( beat ) Soon as I got here, I realized my job was bullshit. Oil company propaganda. I was ready to leave, then I thought screw it, I'll outsmart them, do the work ( beat ) I don't know anymore. Maybe I am fooling myself. That's what I'm afraid of most of all.
CORBETT: Hell, I still get a knot in my gut every season, wondering how much longer I can go on. No 'Home for Retired Trappers' that 139 CONTINUED: ( 2 ) I ever saw. We're like Eskimos get too old to be useful, we're left on the ice to die. The men listen to the faint MUSIC echoing through the silent ( continuing; softly ) My wife used to go to chapel on Sundays. See her friends, 'cause I was away so much. ( beat ) Should've been home that day. She'd be getting dressed right about now. Eric glances over as a look of utter desolation crosses Corbett's face.
CORBETT: ( continuing; softly ) My wife used to go to chapel on Sundays. See her friends, 'cause I was away so much. ( beat ) Should've been home that day. She'd be getting dressed right about now. Eric glances over as a look of utter desolation crosses Corbett's face.
VIKING BOB: My guess is he's loose and heading for Chukfoktulik. He'll need supplies; that's the closest settlement without a lawman. LeMalle carries his booty with him. Viking Bob looks at him disapprovingly as he puts the big Remington rifle in the I ain't gonna leave a seven- hundred-dollar Remington behind.
LEMALLE: I ain't gonna leave a seven- hundred-dollar Remington behind.
VIKING BOB: ( exasperated ) What you gonna do with it? Large bore's for shit on small game.
LEMALLE: Not in the right hands it ain't. To demonstrate, he rapid-fires several SHOTS from the hip, taking the radio antenna off the roof of the Turtle, shattering panes of glass in an accurate succession, and blasting the door latch off the utility compartment.
LEMALLE: ( continuing ) Thought that door was open last Quit fucking around. Get in. LeMalle climbs into the back of the jeep. With Viking Bob driving, they pull away.
VIKING BOB: Quit fucking around. Get in. LeMalle climbs into the back of the jeep. With Viking Bob driving, they pull away.
NEFF: You don't mind me saying, Mr. Desmond, you look like hell.
ERIC: Have you heard anything from the girl staying with me, Anne Marie?
NEFF: Not a damn thing. What's going on? Mr. Meyerling was here, all steamed up, looking for you.
ERIC: Look, Neff, I've got Ben Corbett with me
NEFF: Here?! Where's Wilder?
ERIC: Back at my place. he, uh, broke his leg.
NEFF: If Corbett's men find out
ERIC: I'm putting him on the plane to Fairbanks, eleven tomorrow.
NEFF: Jiminy Christmas. ( beat ) What do you want from me?
ERIC: Corbett ruined my two-way. Go to my place on the Haul Road, tell Anne Marie I'm okay and to sit 147 CONTINUED: I'll go at dawn.
NEFF: I'll go at dawn.
ERIC: Thanks. Don't tell anyone you saw me. After Eric goes, Neff closes his door and bolts it.
NEFF: Why the smirk?
KENAI: Bet I could make some money turning Ben Corbett in. Maybe more for lettin' him loose. ( off Neff's flustered look ) I was up in my cache. Saw the Northland man come talk to you.
NEFF: You're out of your greedy goddamn Corbett coming here stinks of trouble. We should make the best of it before it turns around and bites us in the ass.
KENAI: Corbett coming here stinks of trouble. We should make the best of it before it turns around and bites us in the ass.
NEFF: Stay out of it.
CORBETT: Talk to that good-looking girl of You broke the radio, remember?
ERIC: You broke the radio, remember?
CORBETT: ( smiles ) I'm sure she's fine. Seemed like a clever kid. Corbett sits up as Eric hands him a plate of beans.
CORBETT: ( continuing ) You were real resourceful out there. Got me thinking of this perimeter man, froze all his fingers one winter. So he hacked the tips off and sharpened the exposed bones. Gets along better than ever. Yeah, maybe I underestimated you.
ERIC: I liked you better frozen. You didn't talk so much.
CORBETT: You're damn lucky, glimpsing this country before it's ruined, gone for good. You saw wonders you'd only dreamed of. That alone makes you different than the sorry bastards back where you came from, because you have dreamt them. Corbett sees he's hit a nerve with Eric.
CORBETT: ( continuing ) Remember that demon in the gut? Sometimes it's nothing more than wondering if the so-called civilized life has bred the balls and brains out of you. That's what you want out of this, isn't 150 CONTINUED: All I want want is you in jail A KNOCK at the door interrupts. Eric lowers the flame on the gas lantern and peers out through a corner of the cardboard in the front window. Frowning, he cracks the door open and slips outside.
ERIC: All I want want is you in jail A KNOCK at the door interrupts. Eric lowers the flame on the gas lantern and peers out through a corner of the cardboard in the front window. Frowning, he cracks the door open and slips outside.
NEFF: ( explaining ) He saw you and Corbett come in.
KENAI: Dixie's waiting at the infirmary. She'll put a splint on that injured leg. Eric is skeptical of Kenai's concern.
NEFF: Don't let him fool you. Real reason he's here is to buy Corbett's traps. Eric looks at Kenai, then at Neff. Neff nods that it's okay. As extra precaution, Eric handcuffs Corbett's right wrist to the frame of the cot inside the cell.
ERIC: ( to Kenai ) Okay. You can talk to him. But I'll keep the keys with me.
DIXIE: Earl says you get discount. Twenty-five dollar. Eric shakes his head typical Kenai. He gives her three tens. She smiles and leads Eric toward the "infirmary." It's actually a bath partition outfitted with an examining table and a first-aid kit.
NEFF: ( apologetically ) Look, Ben, we don't want any trouble. The kid's got the key, and besides, he looks edgy enough to use that magnum he's carrying.
CORBETT: Relax. I'll get loose in time.
KENAI: Any traps you don't want, I'll pay cash money.
CORBETT: Guess someone should use them. Open the bottom drawer in Wilder's desk. My kit's in there. Might as well unload Kenai tugs on the drawer. It's locked. Undaunted, he jimmies it open with a knife. Neff groans. Kenai goes to throw Corbett the duffel bag, but Neff grabs it. He checks for weapons, pulling out a hunting knife. Satisfied, he hands Corbett the bag through the bars. With his free hand, Corbett digs through his belongings: clothing, freeze-dried provisions, jerky, paperback books. He looks up and shrugs.
DIXIE: I wash your back for you. You will like it. Before Eric can protest, the door OPENS again. It's Meyerling. He snaps his fingers at Dixie to shoo her and she scurries away.
MEYERLING: I hate to interrupt playtime, but why the hell are you caught up in a local matter when I gave you express instructions to the Cut the shit, Leo. I might need your help.
ERIC: Cut the shit, Leo. I might need your help.
WHORE: They got nice beds upstairs, I'm standin' guard duty. Besides, rather spend the room money on sloppy seconds. Over the sound of LeMalle's exertions there begins an insistent succession of BEEPS. The Whore looks over LeMalle's shoulder at the locating device.
LEMALLE: I'm standin' guard duty. Besides, rather spend the room money on sloppy seconds. Over the sound of LeMalle's exertions there begins an insistent succession of BEEPS. The Whore looks over LeMalle's shoulder at the locating device.
WHORE: Hey, Tiger LeMalle turns and immediately loses interest in the Whore. Pushing her off of him, he blows the jeep's HORN three 157 INT. HOT SPRINGS SPA - NIGHT Eric and Meyerling are in the middle of an argument.
ERIC: .I won't let a killer walk!
MEYERLING: Alleged killer.
ERIC: What does this matter to you?
MEYERLING: ( sneering ) You can't see past your lousy little assignment, sniffing around the pipeline. The few voters there are in this district look up to Corbett, and I'm not about to alienate them.
ERIC: I should release Corbett because you want some votes?
MEYERLING: This miserable wilderness is a state of the union. Policy's made here the same way as in the civilized world: at the ballot box. That's the beauty of it these icebox cowboys are living a century too late. Get them on your side, it's like buying Manhattan for beads. With a handful of votes you control the greatest frontier since white men stumbled onto the New World.
ERIC: Some day these people'll wake up, and you'll be the first one they'll run out of here. Eric's attention turns to a rhythmic INTERFERENCE on the TV screen. There are three short bursts, followed by three long bursts. Something about it is very familiar. Scowling, he sits up.
ERIC: ( continuing ) ( to Meyerling; distracted ) Do what you have to. So will I. Eric climbs out of the water and pulls his pants on.
LEMALLE: Northwest. Devil's Cauldron. LeMalle dumps the half-naked Whore out onto the snow. Viking Bob starts the jeep and they roar off.
NEFF: What's wrong?
ERIC: Just stay out of my face until I'm gone! He slams the door. Corbett smiles his Cheshire smile.
ERIC: ( continuing; picks up ELT ) Emergency transmitter? What happened to signal mirrors or two-tone smoke fires?
CORBETT: Lets us watch each other's backs over a wide area. Only thing messed me up this time was getting arrested in the baths. ELT was in my duffel bag, not around my neck where it should've No way they'll find you on a five-minute signal. And no way 160 CONTINUED: they'll get here in eight hours in this weather, unless they're right around the corner.
ERIC: No way they'll find you on a five-minute signal. And no way 160 CONTINUED: they'll get here in eight hours in this weather, unless they're right around the corner.
CORBETT: They haven't disappointed me yet.
CORBETT: Flashbomb, eh? Eric doesn't answer. He pulls on a heavy overcoat of Wilder's. Putting the unused bullets back in Wilder's desk, Eric finds Corbett's .44 magnum. He puts it and some speedloaders full of .357 hollowpoints in his pockets.
END MONTAGE: 164 INT. HOT SPRINGS SPA Eric's unexpected appearance startles Kenai.
ERIC: I need to rent a cabin.
KENAI: What's the problem with Sam Wilder's place?
ERIC: Will you rent me a cabin, or not?
KENAI: Pretty clever: If the trappers got that signal beacon and get here in time, Sam's is the first place they'll look. They may figure you're waiting for an airplane, so you can't stay in the shack by the airstrip. Last place they'd expect you is on the far side of town. ( shakes his head ) I can't afford any trouble
ERIC: ( takes out all his cash ) Here's a hundred dollars. And if you or anyone else will back me up on this
KENAI: ( grabs money ) Forget it. And try not to bleed on my throw rugs. ( walks away, then turns Why do this?
ERIC: If you have to ask, you wouldn't NEW ANGLE Outside, there is the high-pitched WHINE of a snowmobile ( OS ) driving into town. Eric cautiously follows the SOUND.
NEW ANGLE: Outside, there is the high-pitched WHINE of a snowmobile ( OS ) driving into town. Eric cautiously follows the SOUND.
NEW ANGLE: It's Anne Marie. She gasps. Seeing Eric, she's more angry than relieved. Eric puts the gun back in his waistband.
ANNE MARIE: Eric! Why aren't you in He pulls her away from Neff's doorstep. Her anger dissolving, she wraps her arms around him.
ANNE MARIE: ( continuing ) Oh, Christ, sweetheart. Four days! I thought you were dead, or worse.
ERIC: You can't stay here. Go back to the Turtle. I'll meet you back there in a few hours.
ANNE MARIE: ( stung by his coolness ) What's going on?
ERIC: I'll tell you everything later.
ANNE MARIE: Where's Corbett?
ERIC: Here. A transport plane is due at eleven. Once I put him on it, it's all over.
ANNE MARIE: So what's the problem?
ERIC: There isn't one, unless Corbett's men get here before the plane Anne Marie grasps the situation with a sickening clarity.
ANNE MARIE: Let the people here handle it. It's their marshal Corbett CUTAWAY - NEFF has been eavesdropping on the conversation through his window. The news about Wilder stuns him.
ERIC: Please, Anne Marie, you being here only complicates things.
ANNE MARIE: I'm staying. Eric knows she won't relent.
ERIC: Take the snowmobile, park it behind Wilder's cabin. Sighing, she STARTS the snow machine. Most of her photo gear is lashed to the saddlebags. As she pulls away, Eric limps back to Neff's house and knocks on the door.
NEFF: I was just on my way to your ladyfriend's, but I guess she found you.
ERIC: Yeah. Sorry I barked at you last I'm the one should be sorry. Goddamn Kenai, always out for a score. I never should've let him go over there.
NEFF: I'm the one should be sorry. Goddamn Kenai, always out for a score. I never should've let him go over there.
ERIC: I'd sure like that favor you offered a while back. Neff gets a seasick look on his face.
NEFF: Look, Mr. Desmond, I didn't count on it turning this ugly.
ERIC: What are you talking about?
NEFF: Bastards killed Sam, you think they won't kill the rest of us?
ERIC: There'll be three, four men at the most. I have some backup, nothing will happen.
NEFF: I'm real sorry. In a while, you're gone from this country. But we live here. No one wants to mix it up with those hombres. Neff opens the door for Eric.
ERIC: ( angry ) You don't care enough about Sam He's why I came to Alaska. All his letters, saying what a paradise it is. But me ending up dead won't do Sam a lick of good.
NEFF: Sam Wilder was my cousin. He's why I came to Alaska. All his letters, saying what a paradise it is. But me ending up dead won't do Sam a lick of good.
ANNE MARIE: You're hurt.
ERIC: Nothing broken. C'mon, we have to hurry. He leads her inside.
CORBETT: Could've told you no one would Seeing Anne Marie, he smiles.
CORBETT: ( continuing; to Anne Marie ) Maybe you can talk sense into your boyfriend.
ERIC: Shut up!
CORBETT: ( to Anne Marie ) Either way, you better clear out. I don't want anyone innocent getting harmed. This comment has the intended effect on Anne Marie. Angry, Eric throws Corbett a coat. Corbett puts it on. Reaching through the bars, Eric cuffs Corbett's hands together.
ERIC: We're moving. Let's go. As they exit, Corbett's sardonic look makes Anne Marie 168 INT. RENTAL CABIN The ten-by-ten cabin is furnished with two sagging cots, a beat-up color TV set, a cookstove and a half-drum heat stove. Built into the rear wall is a rustic dumb waiter that once lowered perishables into the icy waters of a now-dry stream. Eric checks his watch. 6:15 AM. He bolts the door and blocks the windows, opening one enough to let sound in from outside. He extinguishes the Benman lantern and douses the fire in the heat stove so no smoke will emit from the chimney. Anne Marie slumps into the corner next to the dumb You'll catch a chill by that dumb waiter shaft. Sit on the cot. ( hands her the .44 ) Keep this pointed at him if I get 168 CONTINUED: Anne Marie reluctantly takes the huge gun. Trying to allay her fears, Eric sits and brushes the hair from her face. Corbett intently watches them. Before he can say anything, Eric shoots him a cold look. Corbett stays quiet.
ERIC: You'll catch a chill by that dumb waiter shaft. Sit on the cot. ( hands her the .44 ) Keep this pointed at him if I get 168 CONTINUED: Anne Marie reluctantly takes the huge gun. Trying to allay her fears, Eric sits and brushes the hair from her face. Corbett intently watches them. Before he can say anything, Eric shoots him a cold look. Corbett stays quiet.
VIKING BOB: ( calls out ) Ben? Ben Corbett? No response. Carbine held at his hip, Viking Bob walks up to the door and, with a mighty kick, BREAKS it in.
VIKING BOB: Look, we pull Ben's ass out of the fire, I'll get you a whole damn crate of Snickers bars.
LEMALLE: ( insulted ) I'm right fuckin' here with you. To prove his point, LeMalle trots from dwelling to dwelling, looking through windows and letting himself in through any unlocked door. This proves fruitless, so he lets out a frustrated YELL. Pointing the Remington skyward, he lets off a couple thunderous SHOTS that ECHO back off the 172 INT. RENTAL CABIN Hearing the shots, Eric pushes Anne Marie against the floor. Cautioning her to stay put, he crawls to the window and tries to see through the snowfall. After a moment of silence, from outside, not too far away:
ERIC: Answer and I'll shoot!
CORBETT: You kill me, you sign your death ( re Anne Marie ) And hers.
LEMALLE: ( calls out ) You hear me? Ben?
VIKING BOB: ( to LeMalle ) Ease off. We do this my way. He and the others strain their ears for a clue.
VIKING BOB: ( continuing; calls out ) Whoever's holding Ben Corbett, listen to me: we just want to know he's okay. He is, nobody gets hurt.
CORBETT: They know I'm here. I don't say something, they'll plow this town under. You willing to accept that responsibility? Setting his resolve, Eric drags Corbett to the window. He pushes the barrel of the magnum against Corbett's cheek.
ERIC: Say you're okay. Tell them I'll kill you if they rush us. Anne Marie bites her lip and tries to maintain a brave front. Despite the gun in his face, Corbett remains calm.
CORBETT: ( shouts through window ) 175 EXT. DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NEAR MAQI Hearing Corbett's voice, the trappers spin around, trying to ascertain its direction.
VIKING BOB: You in one piece?
VIKING BOB: Count on it.
LEMALLE: ( to Viking Bob ) Sweet-talk won't get shit. ( calls out ) Choose it, asswipe cut Corbett loose, or soon as you come outside, I put a fuckin' bullet through your eye!
CORBETT: Snow's to their advantage, kid. You can't see them, but soon as that plane comes, they'll sure as hell know where we're going. Wise up. Take me to the Yukon. I'll give you that money and guarantee you'll walk away.
ERIC: Why offer a buyoff with your gunmen waiting outside?
CORBETT: The time has passed for men like them and me. I know it. But they're still fighting for survival, like cornered animals. That's why they'll kill you. 178 CONTINUED: ( smiles ) Be rude to let that happen after you kept me from freezing back Anne Marie tries to hide how tempted she is by Corbett's ( to Eric ) He's right about the snow. We're Eric sighs is she against him, too? From outside:
ANNE MARIE: ( to Eric ) He's right about the snow. We're Eric sighs is she against him, too? From outside:
NEW ANGLE: Eric and Corbett face the window. They don't notice as Anne Marie quietly shimmies outside through the narrow dumb waiter shaft to the back of the rental cabin. Eric turns, gasping as he realizes she's gone. Corbett smiles
CORBETT: At least your girl had the sense to jump ship. Too bad she's the only one small enough to fit through that dumb waiter.
VIKING BOB: Just wait, we don't know what this guy's up to. Ben'll let us know what to do.
WITH LEMALLE: as he probes through the snow, listening. He reaches the edge of the woods and, finding nothing, returns to the NEW ANGLE Anne Marie crouches behind a tree, twenty feet behind LeMalle. After a moment, she tiptoes back toward the rental 184 INT. RENTAL CABIN Eric and Corbett turn as Anne Marie's camera bag suddenly drops from the dumb waiter shaft. Anne Marie wriggles back inside. Before Eric can say anything, she puts her fingers over his mouth. She turns on the TV set and tunes it to channel 3.
NEW ANGLE: Anne Marie crouches behind a tree, twenty feet behind LeMalle. After a moment, she tiptoes back toward the rental 184 INT. RENTAL CABIN Eric and Corbett turn as Anne Marie's camera bag suddenly drops from the dumb waiter shaft. Anne Marie wriggles back inside. Before Eric can say anything, she puts her fingers over his mouth. She turns on the TV set and tunes it to channel 3.
ERIC: Your infrared camera?
ANNE MARIE: ( nods ) Technology in the wilderness. Only problem is talking to you on your way to the landing strip.
ERIC: I've got an idea. We'll have to work fast. He digs through Anne Marie's bag of equipment and supplies, then stops and looks up. Outside, there is an OS SOUND that is felt before it is HEARD. The cargo PLANE approaches in the distance.
VIKING BOB: There's what they're waiting on!
MITCHELL: ( smiles tightly ) They'll have to come right past 186 EXT. RENTAL CABIN Eric quietly pulls the door open. Holding the pistol to Corbett's head, he pushes Corbett out in front of him. Anne Marie and Eric exchange a long look. Fighting back tears, she reaches up and touches his face.
ERIC: When you ran off, I thought you'd keep going 'til you were back home in Washington.
ANNE MARIE: My home is here. With you. He smiles. Then he and Corbett are gone, lost from sight in the snowfall. After a beat, Anne Marie takes a deep breath and slinks away in the other direction, toward the dance 186 CONTINUED: ANGLE NEAR THE MAQI The trappers wait, twenty-five feet from Eric and Corbett. The DRONE of the plane grows louder.
WIDER: Eric SHOOTS a couple times, then backtracks and pulls Corbett behind one of the rental cabins. Ducking the bullets, the trappers sprawl onto the ground.
LEMALLE: ( to Viking Bob ) Kenai's PA but how the fuck she seein' us?
VIKING BOB: Doesn't matter. We know where they're going. C'mon. Stalking, anxious, LeMalle follows Viking Bob.
MITCHELL: splits off from them and looks for footprints in the snow.
ANNE MARIE: ( into mic ) One is moving back toward the 190 EXT. DANCE HALL It's LeMalle. He crosses to Kenai's generator. With a well-placed rifle SHOT to its innards, he GRINDS it to a 191 INT. DANCE HALL The TV PICTURE disappears as the power dies. Anne Marie keys the PA microphone; it's dead, too.
DIXIE: Earl, it's crazy to go out there.
KENAI: I hear someone in the spa. He straps on a holster under his sealskin coat.
NEW ANGLE: Hidden in the shadows, Eric drops the end of the twine and rushes toward the front door with Corbett in tow.
ERIC: ( to Corbett ) That'll keep him out of the cold.
LEMALLE: climbs out of the central pool, soaked. He pulls his wet jacket off and furiously throws it down.
MITCHELL: has seen their faint silhouettes through the snow. He purposely SHOOTS over their heads so he doesn't hit Corbett.
ERIC: He'll live.
ANNE MARIE: ( gasping ) Don't make me shoot. She gets up, keeping the magnum pointed shakily toward him. LeMalle glowers menacingly.
ANNE MARIE: ( continuing ) We're going to Sam's cabin. You can stay in the jail until this is over. LeMalle slowly crouches down for his rifle. Anne Marie wields the handgun at him, but he doesn't stop.
LEMALLE: Want to chance it with that hog-leg? You can't even hold it up. Better drop me first shot, bitch, or I'll rip your fuckin' lungs out. Taunting, sneering, LeMalle stares her down. Anne Marie is paralyzed. Feeling that he's won, LeMalle wraps his bony fingers around the stock of the Remington. Anne Marie closes her eyes and FIRES. Pulling the rifle close, LeMalle tucks and rolls and jumps to his feet. Anne Marie FIRES again, and AGAIN. Shot, LeMalle hobbles away, leaving a trail of blood in the snow. Numb, Anne Marie lets her arm fall.
KENAI: ( disgusted ) Lookit this damn mess. Where in hell's Wilder?
NEFF: ( after a beat ) Dead. Trappers killed him.
KENAI: Aw, Jesus. Told you this was ( to Meyerling ) What about you, big shot? Do something. Who's side are you on, anyway?
MEYERLING: Hey, I thought you people loved Corbett and his wild men!
KENAI: This shoot-'em-up shit is bad for business. I'm sick of it.
MEYERLING: What about you, Neff?
NEFF: Well. two of the trappers are down already
MEYERLING: ( suddenly on the bandwagon ) One left; three of us. Let's finish it.
NEFF: What about Eric Desmond?
MEYERLING: I'll handle him.
WIDER: Eric takes out the homemade flashbomb. He lights it, tosses it toward Mitchell and covers his eyes. It EXPLODES with a muffled pop and a bright flash of white light. Mitchell stumbles backwards and blinks his eyes. The flash has temporarily clouded his vision. Eric moves Corbett to another approach to the depot and waits for Mitchell to move on.
LEMALLE: ( whispers ) Over there. He hoists his Remington.
MITCHELL: ( whispers ) Hold it. You might hit Ben.
LEMALLE: Bullshit. I hit what I'm aiming Let 'em come closer first. But LeMalle is too anxious. He swings the rifle up, left-handed, and SHOOTS.
MITCHELL: Let 'em come closer first. But LeMalle is too anxious. He swings the rifle up, left-handed, and SHOOTS.
NEW ANGLE: The bullet just misses Eric. He panics and wildly returns FIRE with the .357.
MITCHELL: Glad to see you're okay. I told LeMalle not to shoot. ( tries to smile ) Had some fine seasons, didn't Mitchell's grasp on Corbett's coat relaxes as he dies. Horrified, Eric stares at the man he killed. Noticing the scrimshaw lying on the snow where it slipped from Mitchell's pocket, Corbett picks it up.
CORBETT: ( to Eric ) Fifteen years on the trail with this man, I never saw him rise to Glaring at Eric, Corbett dips his hand in Mitchell's blood, and suddenly smears it across Eric's mouth. Repelled, Eric pulls back.
CORBETT: ( continuing; bitterly ) Your first kill. How does it Wiping his face, sickened and desolate, Eric has no reply.
WIDER: Then, from somewhere close by, LeMalle FIRES at them. Eric stuffs the .357 in his belt and uses a brick to knock the padlock off the back door of the depot. He pushes Corbett 210 INT. CARGO PLANE - COCKPIT The pony-tailed, ex-hippie PILOT shuts his engines off and removes his Walkman headphones. Hearing LeMalle's continuing GUNSHOTS, the Pilot pulls his door closed and turns on his two-way radio.
PILOT: ( into radio mic ) Circle, this is BMY-955. I just touched down in Devil's Cauldron. Nobody's here to greet me like usual, and there's gunfire. I'm getting scarce. With that, he STARTS his engines up again.
WIDER: Anne Marie slides onto the seat.
ANNE MARIE: You can't leave yet.
PILOT: It's my responsibility to get this aircraft out of here safely. Anne Marie points the .44 at him.
PILOT: ( continuing ) You got to be kidding.
ANNE MARIE: Leave the engines idling. Go back and open the side door. Shaking his head and muttering, the Pilot unfastens his seat belt, climbs between the two seats to the cargo compartment, and obliges the little lady with the big gun.
MEYERLING: Nobody wants any more killings; we all agree to that, correct? ( no one argues ) That's good. Now, Eric, you're gonna hand your prisoner over to Fuck you.
ERIC: Fuck you.
MEYERLING: This isn't your concern. It's over, here and now.
CORBETT: ( to Meyerling ) Sure, when you put a bullet in my back on the way out. Easier for all involved.
MEYERLING: Not a bad idea. Face it, Ben. There's no room in Alaska for you any more. Meyerling pokes with his foot at a tipped-over rack of Eskimo paraphernalia masks, furs, big skin drums, fish- and bear-spears.
MEYERLING: ( continuing ) You're as antiquated as this Meyerling moves toward Corbett, but Eric stands in his way.
ERIC: Keep back.
CORBETT: You're quite a piece of work, Meyerling. The tide changes, you ride right along with it. Eric looks at Neff.
ERIC: Neff, you know better than You're an outsider, Mr. Desmond. Step aside; stay out of it. Kenai and Neff move in with Meyerling. Eric stands his ground and reaches for the .357 in his belt.
NEFF: You're an outsider, Mr. Desmond. Step aside; stay out of it. Kenai and Neff move in with Meyerling. Eric stands his ground and reaches for the .357 in his belt.
NEW ANGLE: Suddenly, LeMalle stumbles into the depot, the blankets and furs dragging at his feet. His right side is bathed in blood. Half-frozen, bled dry, he looks ready to drop down dead. In his left hand, impossibly, he still clutches the massive Remington. He hoists it to his hip and grits his teeth as he BOLTS a round into the chamber with his injured right arm. Bracing himself, he levels the rifle at Eric. Hearing the ACTION of the rifle, Eric turns. Corbett reaches down, grabs a rusty Eskimo spear in both his handcuffed hands, and hurls it. There is a deafening ROAR as LeMalle's rifle discharges. LeMalle flies back from the recoil and from the spear stuck clear through his chest. Some packing material above Eric's head smolders, ignited by the muzzle blast.
NEW ANGLE: There is a moment of silence. Corbett looks at the other weapons near him, and then at Meyerling. Threatened, Meyerling pulls out a .380 automatic. Before Eric can do anything, Meyerling FIRES. The IMPACT of the bullet throws Corbett against some boxes.
ERIC: ( continuing ) Anybody moves and I'll shoot! Holding the .380 on them, Eric crosses to Corbett. Bleeding from the abdomen, he's trying to stand up.
ERIC: ( continuing ) Can you walk?
CORBETT: Wound's a through-and-through. Missed my liver, I think.
ERIC: Let's get out of here. Cautiously backing away from the others, Eric helps Corbett get up and shuffle toward the OS SOUND of the cargo plane.
ERIC: How come you didn't let him shoot ( softly ) Like I said, I'd still be up on that mountain, frozen solid, it wasn't for you.
CORBETT: ( softly ) Like I said, I'd still be up on that mountain, frozen solid, it wasn't for you.
ERIC: We'll get you to a hospital, soon as we get to Fairbanks.
CORBETT: So they can patch me up and put me in a cage? Forget it. Meyerling's right I'm a dinosaur. Greedy bastards like him, it's their turn with this land. Put me in the woods, let me live or die on my own. He painfully pulls himself into a sitting position.
CORBETT: ( continuing; peers out Look down there, tell me what any of this matters. Struggles of men get swallowed by the bigness. Soon there won't be a trace of our troubles. or us.
ERIC: You're wrong. Everything we do leaves its mark. You said it yourself there are hundred- year-old footprints in the Too tired to argue, Corbett leans back against the window. He takes Mitchell's scrimshaw out of his pocket and looks at EXTREME CLOSE UP - THE SCRIMSHAW The exquisitely beautiful and detailed engraving depicts a grizzly beside a wilderness creek, with trees and mountains in the background.
CORBETT: clutches the scrimshaw in his hand and closes his eyes.
PILOT: ( to himself ) Too damn crazy in this state anymore. I'm moving back to L.A.
FADE OUT: function popupPage( ) {
