ARTHUR: Written by Peter Baynham
ROOKIE COP: An older Cop flashes the rookie a dirty look, then points a FLASHLIGHT into a tiny window. THE BATMAN - actually drunken English socialite ARTHUR BACH TEMPLEMEAD in a costume - lowers the window and offers a handshake.
ARTHUR: Evening, Constable!
ARTHUR: Are you familiar with the expression `I can explain Out of the car, please.
ARTHUR: Terribly sorry, but in the film they used a different model to show the old Batchap getting in and out. This one has no doors, so I'd have to squeeze out the back arsehole first. Which nobody wants.
ARTHUR: Well. What with having spunked 1.6 million fat Alberts on this little runaround, I thought why not take it a step further and try to actually collar a few ne-er do wells? It worked for the billionaire Bruce Wayne, why not the future billionaire Arthur Bach- Templemead? Will I have to do traffic school?
ARTHUR: To use the technical medical term - megabloodyshitloads. Either that or I've had a stroke! But fret not, I have a designated driver. The cop shines his flashlight back inside, revealing A BEARDED HOMELESS OLD MAN IN A CRAPPY 60S `ROBIN' costume.
HOMELESS ROBIN: Where's my five thousand dollars? Arthur counts out a huge wad of cash.
ARTHUR: The Boy Homeless here neglected to say he'd never driven.
HOMELESS ROBIN: It's LIZARDS! English prick! Arthur hands another wad of cash to Cop 1.
ARTHUR: I trust this will cover all repairs to New York and any inconvenience to your good selves? He turns and tries to get back in.
JAY: Then the crazy motherfucker cut me!
ARTHUR: Goodness. Why?
JAY: Said I cut the bombita with pig Rude man. And who threw hot Americano in whose face again?
ARTHUR: Rude man. And who threw hot Americano in whose face again?
JAY: I did in his. No half and half neither. That shit burnt! Jay laughs hard, as does GARY, another crook. Arthur, out of politeness, tries to join in the laughter.
GARY: I burnt my sister's hair.
JAY: ( high fiving him ) Ho wanted to evict me, just 'cause I don't fit her definition of hygiene. Plenty of places to take a shit, toilet's just one of them. Just ask the a-rabs.
GARY: Ho wanted to evict me, just 'cause I don't fit her definition of hygiene. Plenty of places to take a shit, toilet's just one of them. Just ask the a-rabs.
ARTHUR: It's like a chat show, this. ( looking into an imaginary
CAMERA ): It's been said of my next guest, by Jay the bandaged lunatic, that she's `a sick-ass, whacked-out, whacked-up asswipe'. ( to a PROSTITUTE ) Carmella, when did you first dream of becoming a crack whore?
PROSTITUTE: Mother died when I was six.
ARTHUR: Oh G-d, I hate when that happens.
PROSTITUTE: My father raped me when I was Sounds like you had six relatively good years.
ARTHUR: Sounds like you had six relatively good years.
JAY: What do you do?
ARTHUR: I model riding boots, I spend money, I sleep with women. But I have weekends off and I am my own The cell door swings open.
ARTHUR: ( STANDING )
DEVERE: I don't think your mother will be pleased, Arthur.
ARTHUR: Really, Elverton - if a chap can't help out a few chums, whatever their station in life. The other crooks from the cell are leaving alongside them.
ARTHUR: I am the Batman. Gotham can sleep easy tonight.
JAY: ( points at A CAMERAMAN ) Don't point that shit at me, bitch! I will FUCK YOU UP! Jay attacks the cameraman violently. Gary piles in.
HOMELESS ROBIN: Yes! Yes! Kill the lizards! Arthur pushes past the press.
PRESS: Arthur! What will your mother say? Didn't she send you here to get you out of the British papers? Arthur!
ARTHUR: Anyone need a job? My last driver resigned after I filled his limo with squirrels. Preferably sober, clean driving licence? The crooks all look unsure. Apart from one..
TITLES: EXT. MANHATTAN- NIGHT A different, extremely flashy car zips through Central Park, the back full of released crooks, the huge Chicago guy - his name's MARTY - at the wheel. The car passes A MALE JOGGER. It stops and backs up. Arthur opens a door and beckons the jogger, offering champagne. The jogger gets in. The car sets off again.
APARTMENT RENTALS!': Like the pied piper, Arthur leads his disciples into the bar.
ARTHUR: Stand back! He releases the firework; it flies at a crazy drunk angle, people screaming and diving for cover. It explodes into a shop sign reading `CHECKS CASHED'.
CARMELLA: ( LAUGHING )
ARTHUR: The what?
ARTHUR: Roll up, roll up, folks, let's fix this thing right now. ( to his first customer ) How much, sir?
FIRST MAN: Um. $800 please.
ARTHUR: Coming right up. ( keys it in ) Fries with that? The man laughs, along with others in the line, including Sofia who catches his eye.
RECESSION'S OVER!: Arthur dials a number on his gold iPhone.
ARTHUR: Pierre! We'd like 182 pate de foie gras, 182 chateaubriand steaks, a motherlode of chips and your entire wine cellar please. The daughter of the stuffy couple - she's ERICA - speaks.
ERICA: ( TAKEN ABACK )
ARTHUR: ( TAKEN ABACK )
ERICA: Who are the women with you, Arthur?
ARTHUR: Oh, um, this is Sofia. I believe she works for Avis. Checks the cars for dings, dead people in the trunk, that sort of thing. And this is Carmella. Anyway.
ERICA'S FATHER: What do you do, Carmella?
CARMELLA: Whatever you want. But no penetration without a rubber. It's all gone a bit tense.
ARTHUR: Carmella's joking. She's actually a.queen. Of a very small country.
ERICA'S FATHER: Is she now?
ARTHUR: It's terribly small.
ERICA'S FATHER: I see.
ARTHUR: Rhode Island could beat the crap out of it in a war.
ERICA'S FATHER: Yes, it's a small place.
ARTHUR: 85 cents in a cab from one end of the country to the other. I'm talking small.
ERICA'S FATHER: I think I understand how small it Just had the entire country carpeted, this is not a big place.
ARTHUR: Just had the entire country carpeted, this is not a big place.
ERICA'S FATHER: You need to grow up, Arthur.
ARTHUR: That's easy for you to say, you haven't got 50 pairs of short trousers hanging in your closet. Maybe we should go somewhere else.
ERICA: Maybe you should. He gets out his ultra-exclusive Black Visa Card.
ARTHUR: Could I have all those lobsters to go, please?
ARTHUR: Cup of tea? Nice hot cup of hot Rosy Lee right up your fanny? ..beneath a rotating solar system mobile good enough to grace a national planetarium, on a bed floating magnetically three feet above the floor.
ARTHUR: Hugh Grant Mr Bean self deprecation mad cow disease Yorkshire pudding bad teeth rain rain rain rain!
ARTHUR: ( brightly, as he humps ) Morning, Hobson! Unfazed, Hobson busies herself picking up Arthur's trousers, and emptying wallet, matchbooks, and iPhone into the tray.
HOBSON: Morning, Arthur. She hits a remote. The curtains fly open. A HUGE TV flips on, showing news coverage of Arthur's antics last night.
ARTHUR: Umm.Celebration of Kwanzaa. Hobson's reading a text on Arthur's phone: `So excited ur funding my movie!'
HOBSON: The African heritage festival celebrated five months from now? She replies: `I was drunk. Piss off.'
ARTHUR: ( noticing Sofia's stopped having sex with him ) Why are you stopping? Oh, sorry. How impolite of me. Sofia, this is Hobson, my nanny.
SOFIA: He's merely shaped like an adult.
HOBSON: He's merely shaped like an adult.
SOFIA: Is she going to stay here?
ARTHUR: Hobson, could you come back in a minute and a half please?
HOBSON: Negative. You're seeing your mother this morning.
ARTHUR: Nobody told me.
HOBSON: Actually I did, on the other side of the vast moat of champagne known as `last night'. Hobson picks up Sofia's panties and bra from the floor like a crime scene officer.
ARTHUR: Hobson! Really.
HOBSON: I had to dab Tabasco sauce on the nipples to see him off.
SOFIA: I can't do this. She pulls away from Arthur, grabs her clothes and jumps out of bed, nearly tipping Arthur out.
HOBSON: I support your decision 100%. Will you be requiring a taxi, or just be getting in a random passing car? Sofia storms to the door, clutching her clothes. Arthur can see other revellers being removed by HOTEL SECURITY.
ARTHUR: Cancel my mother please, Hobson. I'll work from bed today. But Hobson hits a touch-sensitive screen on the wall. The magnetic bed thuds to the ground. She taps another control.
HOBSON: ( shouting over the music ) Aren't you a fan of Carcass? Hobson reads off an album cover in a little wall screen.
ARTHUR: OKAY, OKAY, I'LL GET UP! Arthur sits up. Hobson stops the music.
HOBSON: Good boy.
ARTHUR: I'm going for a shower.
HOBSON: I'll alert the media.
ARTHUR: ( SINGING )
HOBSON: They brought an intelligent elephant and Nellie was her We see Hobson on a little screen inset into the glass wall. She's on a phone at Arthur's computer.
ARTHUR: Female Tom Hanks!
HOBSON: She's early today.
ARTHUR: Can we invite her up and dress her as Forrest Gump?
HOBSON: Just for a laugh! We'll pay her.
ARTHUR: Just for a laugh! We'll pay her.
HOBSON: Do your armpits.
HOBSON: That reminds me, clean your genitals. Heaven knows what wildlife that girl was harbouring between her thighs.
ARTHUR: I give you `Sideways farting Hobson is sitting, exasperated, going through various Arthur, you have to stop giving money away!
HOBSON: Arthur, you have to stop giving money away!
ARTHUR: I'm a philanthropist.
HOBSON: With the emphasis on the `pissed'. Really, what is it about unearned wealth that brings out such idiocy in those who have it and those who want it? The way you're going, you'll have spent your inheritance before you've inherited it.
ARTHUR: ( shifts to new pose ) `Eagle pointing at lesbian.'
HOBSON: Why did you fire Jessica?
ARTHUR: What kind of yoga teacher won't let a pupil invent positions? She was a Nazi with a pan pipe C.D.
HOBSON: Interesting. It looks more like `Rich twit hiding from mother.' May I remind you, she finances your preposterous existence.
ARTHUR: I know, I know. Never bite the hand that fists me.
MARTY: Sorry, fellas.
HOBSON: ( CONSPIRATORIAL )
ARTHUR: Give the guy a chance, Hobson. He got laid off in Chicago.
HOBSON: But he doesn't know his way around New York!
ARTHUR: So? I want interesting, fun people around me, not drones who just get the job done. Arthur sees something out of the window.
NAOMI: .and inspired by the machine age of the 1920s, this magnificent structure was the world's tallest building for 11 months before the Empire State stole its thunder. She looks out on her sullen, miserable tourists.
NAOMI: 1047 feet madam, not allowing for pigeon shit. Okay, let's cross. Naomi leads the tourists across the busy road. She has to go back to grab a teenager in the headphones, who didn't hear. Arthur hurries alongside Naomi.
ARTHUR: Can I join your tour please?
NAOMI: Sure. It's $15, plus $5 for the free authentic street pretzel. Sorry, my bosses make the prices. Arthur produces his wallet full of high-end credit cards.
CABBIE: ( ANGRY )
NAOMI: PEGUELO ENCIMA DE SU ASNO, USTED PINCHAZO GRANDE SU MADRE ES UN PUTA ENORMA Y SU PADRE NO TIENE NINGUIN The cabbie's shocked - but laughs and blows Naomi a kiss. She smiles back.
MARTILLO!: The cabbie's shocked - but laughs and blows Naomi a kiss. She smiles back.
ARTHUR: Wow. What did you say?
NAOMI: Just generalised criticism of his parents and genitals. ( to the tourists ) Everyone make it over alive? Excellent. Next we enter Times Square, world famous for New Year's Eve, when a Waterford Crystal Ball descends at eye-poppingly slow speed for the inexplicable entertainment of a million drunk fools. Many people think the square is actually a square, despite blatant evidence otherwise.
ARTHUR: A circle?
NAOMI: ( LAUGHS )
NAOMI: Soon, sir. Soon. She checks her watch and leads the party inside a laundromat.
NAOMI: .Mr Big from Sex and the City and three of the 9-11 terrorists. She starts unloading the machine of a large man's whites - vests, underwear, shirts, all stained red by a baseball cap.
ARTHUR: ( CONSPIRATORIAL )
NAOMI: Are you abusing the tour to stalk Arthur stares at the big tumble dryers.
ARTHUR: Arthur stares at the big tumble dryers.
HOBSON: Where the blazes is that boy? EXT. STREET - DAY - CONTINUOUS They emerge into the street.
NAOMI: Ahead, the jewel in Manhattan's crown, the Empire State Building. This iconic symbol of American corporate might was adapted during World War 2 in case of attack from enemy forces. At three minutes' notice the entire structure can retract into the ground like a tortoise's head.
TOURIST: That's not possible. I should know, I'm a civil engineer.
NAOMI: You're not being very civil to me. Some tourists laugh.
ARTHUR: The building doesn't retract; the ground rises up.
NAOMI: Exactly. The ground rises up! Thank you, sir.
ARTHUR: They were going to install giant legs so if a plane was flying at the tower it could run away. But where's it going to run?
NAOMI: Manhattan's in the way.
ARTHUR: It'd have to jump in the Hudson.
NAOMI: Victory to the Nazis. Is that what you want? The group approaches a pretzel stand.
ARTHUR: If you go on Perez Hilton or TMZ.
NAOMI: What are they?
ARTHUR: The gossip websites.
NAOMI: That the internet? Ah, my computer's too old for all that.
ARTHUR: For the internet? Seriously?
NAOMI: Life's too short for all this obsessive upgrading.
ARTHUR: You consider the internet an upgrade? Wow.
NAOMI: So why do people gossip about you?
ARTHUR: Ah, that was a joke. I'm nobody. Arthur feels a tap on his shoulder. Hobson.
HOBSON: You're late for your mother!
NAOMI: ( TO ARTHUR )
HOBSON ): The soup kitchen's just up and to the left, honey.
ARTHUR: Hobson, this is. ( reads her badge ) She's with you?
NAOMI: She's with you?
HOBSON: Delighted to meet you, Naomi. Normally one has to go to a bowling alley to meet a woman of your Ooh, Grandma's got jokes.
NAOMI: Ooh, Grandma's got jokes.
HOBSON: You aren't the first woman who walks the streets this young man has asked.
NAOMI: Who's this? Joan Rivers' older bitterer sister?
ARTHUR: My nanny.
NAOMI: Obviously. Seriously, who is she?
ARTHUR: My nanny. Well, she started as that, but these days she's more of an all-round enforcer and Naomi looks at her watch and glances to the tourists, chewing on their pretzels. She starts to walk away.
NAOMI: Sorry, I have to get out the cattle prod and haul ass. Got another tour starting in eight minutes.
ARTHUR: Can I call you? Naomi starts to walk away.
NAOMI: I don't give my number to grown men with nannies. But as you may not be a grown man, it's 917 476 2030. Manhattan swallows the lovely stranger.
ARTHUR: But what if this is the one?
HOBSON: This is just like the Komodo dragon. Everyone else is happy to see one in the zoo and leave it there. You had to own one. Thank goodness that handbag manufacturer was prepared to take the poor lizard away.
ARTHUR: ( HORRIFIED )
HOBSON: He is, Arthur. Are you the only one allowed to joke now?
ARTHUR: I don't like it here.
HOBSON: Of course you don't. People work Good afternoon, Mr Bach-Templemead.
GRANT: ( HATES ARTHUR )
ARTHUR: Hi Grant. Tell me - which of your parents are you most like? Abercrombie or Fitch?
GRANT: ( doesn't get the joke ) I have no connection with that store. My family name is Von Krausehoff. Take a seat please.
HOBSON: Don't fret, Arthur. This won't take long. Then we'll have ice cream. A LARGE OFFICE DOOR opens spookily of its own accord.
ARTHUR: You know I prefer `mother'.
VIVIENNE: You know I prefer `mother'.
ARTHUR: I'm sorry. You look more like a Vivienne nods to Hobson as the door to her lair shuts. An icy breeze passes between biological mother and surrogate.
VIVIENNE: ( not looking up ) So. How are you, Arthur?
ARTHUR: Quite busy. I have a riding boot shoot for Petrie Dressage.
VIVIENNE: Did I hear you say you were meeting Ivanka Trump for brunch? That's nice. Right. Today we're going to have a friendly chat. Then a serious talk. And lastly make a timetable. How does all that sound?
ARTHUR: Amazing. Do you have any vodka?
VIVIENNE: What happened, Arthur? You were such a sweet baby.
ARTHUR: I still wake up in my own poo Right, that's it for the chat. Time to transition to our talk. Vivienne hits a remote control. A large wall-mounted screen fills with a changing collage of him drunk, dancing, puking, making out with women, beside countless news headlines.
VIVIENNE: Right, that's it for the chat. Time to transition to our talk. Vivienne hits a remote control. A large wall-mounted screen fills with a changing collage of him drunk, dancing, puking, making out with women, beside countless news headlines.
ARTHUR: Can't Hobson set them aside for me?
VIVIENNE: Susan is a splendid girl. Her feet are on the ground, she's of fine Oh. That's what this is all about. I'm not marrying Susan. I don't love her.
ARTHUR: ( GETS UP )
VIVIENNE: And? You think I spent my marriage to your father skipping through Not after you ran him over in the Bentley, no. Susan's boring. She's not funny.
ARTHUR: Not after you ran him over in the Bentley, no. Susan's boring. She's not funny.
VIVIENNE: Ditto your father. The aristocracy doesn't marry for `fun', Arthur. It's about stability. Continuity.
ARTHUR: .and sinking your fangs into Susan's father's bank account.
VIVIENNE: The Johnson family's considerable equity in a stormy financial period is merely a side issue. Burt is a pillar of the community.
ARTHUR: His baby formula was taken off the market in six African countries!
VIVIENNE: A completely innocent error in places where there's precious little for children to live for anyway. The families all got gift baskets as compensation. That little bump in the road aside, Burt is a devout Christian.
ARTHUR: Yes, because they're never insane. And where did he get Jesus?
VIVIENNE: ( GETTING EXASPERATED )
ARTHUR: He strangled a fireman! Who strangles a fireman?
VIVIENNE: I'm sorry, Vivienne. I've met someone else very lovely who, as far as I know, isn't related to anyone who would kill an unsung hero in cold blood.
ARTHUR: I'm sorry, Vivienne. I've met someone else very lovely who, as far as I know, isn't related to anyone who would kill an unsung hero in cold blood.
VIVIENNE: Un-meet her. Arthur, you're the end of our line. We need an heir.
ARTHUR: I nearly gave you an heir!
VIVIENNE: Oh, give me strength! A Bach- Templemead having a child by a lap dancer called `Mystery'?
ARTHUR: That was just her stage name! To give her more mystery when she.waved her fanny around. Her real name was.what was it again?
VIVIENNE: Susan is 33 this year. Her egg inventory has dropped by 23% since you met her. You risk having no sons, or worse, some pea-brained hunchback who hugs everyone!
ARTHUR: Great! I like hugs! And some of them are really good at math. You know the `Frog and Toad' books?
VIVIENNE: Of course you don't. Hobson read them to me while you were off riding horses over stripey poles. They're about fun and friendship, not how many unspasticated tadpoles I can squirt up a rich girl.
ARTHUR: Of course you don't. Hobson read them to me while you were off riding horses over stripey poles. They're about fun and friendship, not how many unspasticated tadpoles I can squirt up a rich girl.
VIVIENNE: Your father would turn in his grave to hear this nonsense.
ARTHUR: That I won't follow in his footsteps and marry a woman I hate? I think he might climb out of the grave and dance on it.
VIVIENNE: Suit yourself. Vivienne holds up the document she was notating earlier.
ARTHUR: You wouldn't! You're my.
VIVIENNE: .Vivienne? Try me. Vivienne opens a draw and takes out A HUGE RING BOX.
HOBSON: Ah. The ring your father gave your mother, I recall.
ARTHUR: ( feeling its huge weight ) Did he knock her out with it, then drive her to the church in the trunk of his Bentley?
HOBSON: No. Your father was a gentleman.
ARTHUR: What's gentlemanly about dying before I knew him? That's just rude. Did he ever love my mother?
HOBSON: They had their days.
ARTHUR: Ah well. At least he doesn't have to wake up every day to a woman with a face like saran wrap stretched over a gargoyle. Arthur stares at the ring again.
HOBSON: Arthur. I say this with love:
ARTHUR: Even by modern male standards you're a breathtakingly immature little shit. Coupled with the kind of money you have access to, that's deadly. Susan may not have a four hour stand up routine about the Flatiron Building, but she's a solid girl who will look after you.
HOBSON: Even by modern male standards you're a breathtakingly immature little shit. Coupled with the kind of money you have access to, that's deadly. Susan may not have a four hour stand up routine about the Flatiron Building, but she's a solid girl who will look after you.
ARTHUR: I have you for that.
HOBSON: Not forever.
ARTHUR: Yes forever. You're Hobson.
NAOMI: ( SILENCE ) ( MOCK SINISTER )
NAOMI: ( UNFAZED )
ARTHUR: I'm sorry, I've never really understood that question. Are you free tomorrow night?
NAOMI: Sorry, I'm polishing my yacht.
ARTHUR: Is that a euphemism for something No, it's a lie. I have a creative writing class. Tonight? Arthur glances down at the ring box on the floor.
NAOMI: No, it's a lie. I have a creative writing class. Tonight? Arthur glances down at the ring box on the floor.
ARTHUR: I have a contractual commitment. You got it.
NAOMI: You got it.
ARTHUR: A voice-activated toilet paper dispenser spits out a sheet.
NAOMI: A voice-activated toilet paper dispenser spits out a sheet.
ARTHUR: Sorry, I was talking to something else. So. What do you want to do?
NAOMI: A movie?
ARTHUR: Movie? Come on, you've got to try harder than that.
NAOMI: What have you always wanted to do?
ARTHUR: What have you always wanted to do?
NAOMI: It's a first date, Arthur. Not our Every date will be our honeymoon.
ARTHUR: Every date will be our honeymoon.
NAOMI: ( MOCK DISGUSTED )
ARTHUR: What sort of food do you like?
NAOMI: Anything but guts and mushrooms. Okay, enough questions.
ARTHUR: Oh come on. This all helps build up a profile of you before I trick you into my basement. I'd hate to not have your favourite snacks ready.
NAOMI: Turkey Jerky and Pez. Are we done? Just that I..
HOBSON: Time to get engaged, Arthur. The Komodo dragon can wait.
ARTHUR: Hi! Is it June 19th at 7 pm?
BUTLER: No, sir. It's 8.34.
ARTHUR: FUCK! We overshot! Time travel can be a real cunt sometimes, don't you think? I'll be right back. See you in an hour and a half ago. The butler doesn't laugh.
BUTLER: Would you care for anything while you wait?
ARTHUR: A trampoline and a selection of woodland creatures if that's not too much trouble. The butler leaves. Arthur gazes around the room, which is filled with antique Christian iconography. The ceiling fan is in the shape of a cross. A large, scary Jesus statue, palms outstretched, stares at him from beside a fish tank. He sees a cocktail cabinet.
BURT: I, er, had a bit of food stuck in my teeth and couldn't find a Burt, unperturbed, takes the sword from Arthur.
ARTHUR: I, er, had a bit of food stuck in my teeth and couldn't find a Burt, unperturbed, takes the sword from Arthur.
BURT: Heck, this sword went through three crusades. Beheaded 1000 moslems. Nothing you can do to harm it. Burt walks straight past headless Jesus to the water cabinet. Arthur looks around desperately for the head.
ARTHUR: You don't, um, have anything stronger, do you?
BURT: Arthur laughs nervously. But Burt's not joking.
ARTHUR: Surely a glass of sherry at Burt clinks glasses with him.
BURT: Peace be with you.
ARTHUR: And also with me. He sees Jesus's head! It's sitting on top of one of the blades of the ceiling fan!
BURT: Arthur. Can I be honest with you?
ARTHUR: You're the real Slim Shady? I knew My faith teaches me to hate the sin, not the sinner. But with you, I struggle with that belief. Burt turns away to get a glass of water.
BURT: My faith teaches me to hate the sin, not the sinner. But with you, I struggle with that belief. Burt turns away to get a glass of water.
ARTHUR: You could switch to Judaism. ( glances up at the fan ) Bit warm in here. Do you mind if I put the fan on? Arthur turns the fan on a low setting. It rotates slowly, the head going around with it. Burt turns away to pour more water. Arthur grabs the moment to speed up the fan again, until it's going fast enough and Jesus's head falls off. Arthur catches it. Arthur gets behind Burt, out of sight Anyway, Arthur. However I feel about you, my daughter loves you.
BURT: Anyway, Arthur. However I feel about you, my daughter loves you.
ARTHUR: Yes, it's a problem, isn't it? Arthur reaches out and, unseen by Burt, he reaches out of shot and puts the head back on Jesus's body.
BURT: You made love to a guy?
ARTHUR: One Moslem doesn't make a mosque, You made love to a Moslem?
BURT: You made love to a Moslem?
ARTHUR: No, sir, it was Prince Alois of Lichtenstein and he made love to me. The fact that it took three bottles of poppers and a Jacuzzi full of Krug to loosen me up confirmed my heterosexuality. Arthur notices that Jesus's head is on backwards. Burt picks up a Bible from his desk and quotes from memory.
BURT: `If there is a man who lies with a male, they shall surely be put to Crikey. Couldn't there just be some kind of on-the-spot fine? Burt really hammers the table this time.
ARTHUR: Crikey. Couldn't there just be some kind of on-the-spot fine? Burt really hammers the table this time.
BURT: You will stop this talk and marry - my - fucking. Jesus's head falls off. Arthur peers around. It's nowhere!
ARTHUR: Oh bollocks. Both Arthur and Burt see Jesus's head at the bottom of the fish tank. It floats back up to the top.
SUSAN: Sorry to make you wait, Arthur. I was talking to your mother. I hear you have something to ask me! Arthur feels Burt's smiling face - and hating eyes - on him.
ARTHUR: Shall we go?
ARTHUR: Do you have something with less words please? The chef doesn't have to re-cook it, just scrape off the nouns and trim out all that gibberish in the middle.
SUSAN: He's just joshing, Dominic. I'll do the skate in wood ear mushroom.
WAITER: Excellent decision. Sir?
ARTHUR: A bowl of champagne and a spoon. The waiter leaves, despising Arthur.
SUSAN: Arthur, did you really have to be so icky to Dominic?
ARTHUR: I'm sorry. I just can't handle the whole specials act. It's not a Shakespearean soliloquy, it's some heated up dead things that aren't on the main menu.
SUSAN: You know, I was grumbling to your mother about how things are with us sometimes. How I'm sure you're trying to drive me away. Arthur slurps his champagne.
ARTHUR: Um hm.
SUSAN: But she was explaining that relationships are like property purchases; invest only in high-end stock, avoid anyone 'up-and- coming', then hold onto the property through thick and thin to deliver maximum return! Isn't that Is it possible to buy the house but then rent it out? Sorry, joke. I'm not suggesting pimping you. Arthur sees a very frail, rich old woman dripping in diamonds, passing by on her walking frame.
ARTHUR: Is it possible to buy the house but then rent it out? Sorry, joke. I'm not suggesting pimping you. Arthur sees a very frail, rich old woman dripping in diamonds, passing by on her walking frame.
SUSAN: Arthur. Why can't you learn to laugh at genuinely amusing things?
ARTHUR: Such as?
SUSAN: YouTube clips of babies giggling. Dane Cook.
ARTHUR: Susan. Why are we together?
SUSAN: I love you, Arthur. And you love me, whatever you think.
ARTHUR: We don't have the same sense of humour. We don't like the same films, food, music. You like horses, I think they're arrogant Don't they say opposites attract?
SUSAN: Don't they say opposites attract?
ARTHUR: That depends on the opposites. Racists and the Nation of Islam don't secretly want to 69 each other. Susan, you're beautiful. You're bright. You're fucking loaded. Is there really no one else who could make you happy?
SUSAN: Well, I had a thing at college. That was serious for a while. But She stops herself.
ARTHUR: Well, I had a thing at college. That was serious for a while. But She stops herself.
SUSAN: Well, I had a thing at college. That was serious for a while. But She stops herself.
ARTHUR: Daddy what? Prayed to Jesus for it not to work out, then shot the bloke behind a meat truck? Because Jesus would consider that cheating. Susan places her hand on Arthur's.
SUSAN: Ask me, Arthur. Arthur takes Susan's hand.
ARTHUR: Susan. You're the only woman.at this table. A waiter tops up Susan's wine. Arthur, now very drunk, holds out his champagne bowl to be refilled.
SUSAN: You're not happy, Arthur. Nobody who drinks like you can be happy.
ARTHUR: How do you know? What if the drunker I get the better it is for me? Not everyone who drinks is a poet, Susan. Some of us drink because we're not poets. The waiter arrives with Susan's fish and Arthur's drink.
SUSAN: A real woman could stop you from It'd have to be a real big woman.
ARTHUR: It'd have to be a real big woman.
SUSAN: Ask me, Arthur. Arthur sinks to his knees. Susan waits.and waits. Arthur has passed out. Susan kicks him awake. He fumbles away in the gloom, getting out the ring box and trying to get it on her At table level, Susan waits, irritated.
SUSAN: Yes, I'll marry you. She nods imperceptibly at the waiter.
WAITER: Ladies and gentleman - the happy Music starts. A congratulatory round of applause. Confetti is thrown. The whole restaurant cheers. Susan whips out her Blackberry and starts hitting keys.
SUSAN: Erica will be the planner.
ARTHUR: Erica? She hates me.
SUSAN: Who I love, she loves.
ARTHUR: Oh, come on. She always looks like she wants to set fire to my face then put it out with an Uzi. Susan's phone rings.
SUSAN: ( ANSWERING )
ARTHUR: What's going on? I only just bloody Arthur's phone rings. The caller I.D reads `Vivienne'. He kills the call and sits, horrified, as the entire restaurant celebrates his grim fate.
HOBSON: And stop this self-pitying bibble. You're going to be fabulously rich.
ARTHUR: Maybe I'd rather be fabulously poor. Some poor people I see look That's either because they're far away or you've just given them money. Arthur, poor people have to work. They stand for hours in the rain, waiting for buses full of other poor people to take them to things called `jobs' which they do all year round to pay for holidays away from those jobs.
HOBSON: That's either because they're far away or you've just given them money. Arthur, poor people have to work. They stand for hours in the rain, waiting for buses full of other poor people to take them to things called `jobs' which they do all year round to pay for holidays away from those jobs.
ARTHUR: Don't patronise me. I have a job.
HOBSON: Lying drunk on a bale of hay in riding boots being photographed by another pampered prick won't prepare you for the work I mean. And I don't want to see you suffer. Take your fish oil.
RALPH: When are we getting cable?
RALPH: Honey, that's some bullshit aerial from the 99 cent Store!
NAOMI: It's a satellite dish!
RALPH: I read the box! It said `No satellite fees to pay because does not receive satellite signals!' That's like saying `Hey - eat this plate of broken glass! It won't make you fat. 'cause IT'S GLASS!' Naomi comes in, looking absolutely beautiful. She checks her hair in the mirror.
NAOMI: It's better than nothing. Ralph unplugs the dish. The picture improves.
RALPH: No it ain't. Honey, I love you, but you're even cheaper than your mom. And she bought food from yard I miss her too, daddy. But now she's gone and if I'm going to keep you in grits and Oprah the rest of your life, you live by my rules.
NAOMI: I miss her too, daddy. But now she's gone and if I'm going to keep you in grits and Oprah the rest of your life, you live by my rules.
RALPH: But you live like you're preparing for a war. And you earn a decent So? I want to know I can look after What's he do, this English bum?
NAOMI: So? I want to know I can look after What's he do, this English bum?
RALPH: What's he do, this English bum?
NAOMI: Who cares? He's nice. He's funny. On CSI, a female body is being unearthed.
RALPH: Yeah and I bet that girl said the same about her date. Honey, stay home. I don't want you ending up like that poor girl.
NAOMI: A bad actress holding her breath? She changes the channel to something else.
ARTHUR: Can you put this on please? Arthur's holding a blindfold.
NAOMI: On a first date? Are you crazy?
ARTHUR: Trust me.
NAOMI: Arthur. We're in Battery Park at night. I've met you once - in the company of your nanny. You make a disturbing number of jokes about stalking and basements. My dad already has you down as a mass murderer. And you want me to put on a blindfold?
ARTHUR: I give you my word - if I kill and eat you, you'll never see me again. She shrugs and puts on the blindfold.
NAOMI: Okay, I'm officially a little She tries to pull her blindfold off.
ARTHUR: ( LAUGHING )
NAOMI: Arthur, I don't know what to say. It's beautiful.
ARTHUR: The picnic fairies. Who liaised with the flower fairies, the candle fairies, the log fire fairies, the hidden sound system fairies. He lifts a silver platter lid to reveal a vast pizza.
NAOMI: Did you take account of the heroin fairies who hang here at night? But there's nobody there. A cool breeze blows. Naomi shivers. Arthur uses a remote to turn the log fire flames up.
ARTHUR: It's nice to keep it simple like this. I'm sick of Michelin-star restaurants. All that embarrassing crap with the specials.
NAOMI: Are you kidding? Where I normally eat, the special's the one that comes with a free toy. Arthur lifts a grill lid to turn over succulent steaks.
ARTHUR: I get by.
NAOMI: `It doesn't remotely matter how much or what you spend it on' rich? Arthur shrugs and swigs champagne, pouring more.
ARTHUR: I once inadvertently financed a terrorist cell who said they needed £100,000 to open a falafel stall. She laughs. She stops laughing.
NAOMI: Oh my G-d, you're serious.
ARTHUR: What's the craziest thing you ever told a tour party?
NAOMI: I once said the Manhattan we were in was actually a movie set built for `You've got Mail', but that after the film wrapped, everyone moved to the set because there was less crime. A sudden, very loud, very out-of-date ring tone. Naomi takes out a huge ancient Motorola phone.
ARTHUR: Sounds like you're very good to What are you gonna do? All those years your folks tucked you in, did their best to stop you from eating crap in front of the TV. And then one day, you're the one saying `No, honey, it's bad for you! Go to bed.' Weird, huh?
NAOMI: What are you gonna do? All those years your folks tucked you in, did their best to stop you from eating crap in front of the TV. And then one day, you're the one saying `No, honey, it's bad for you! Go to bed.' Weird, huh?
ARTHUR: ( not relating at all ) Yeah. I hate that. ( looks at her phone ) Nice bit of kitsch. Where did you find that?
NAOMI: It's.You've had it twelve years?
ARTHUR: It's.You've had it twelve years?
NAOMI: It's a fine phone. Battery life of eleven seconds, which cuts the crap right out of conversations. Something weird is happening. The world wobbles imperceptibly as the background drops away. She hasn't noticed yet.
ARTHUR: I couldn't decide between picnic in the park and dinner with a view. So it's a picnic in the sky! Isn't it The whole thing is rising higher and higher and higher.
NAOMI: No it is not ace, you crazy English bastard! This is dangerous!
ARTHUR: Oh, sorry. Forgot. They said to put these on. He pulls back the blanket to reveal seat belts. He straps her Naomi, it's okay! It's very safe. It's this company called `Aerial Delights'. They specialise in catering unusual events at a height of 180 feet above the ground. A gust of wind blows the structure, which swings. Naomi So what got you into the walking You're seriously making date small talk while this is going on?
NAOMI: You're seriously making date small talk while this is going on?
ARTHUR: Be still. Breathe deep. ( strikes a Zen pose ) `When you can be calm in the midst of activity, this is the true state of nature': Huanchu Daoeren.
NAOMI: `Lower this freak show to the ground and get me a cab': Naomi ( handing her something ) Taste this truffle. Naomi tastes it. It's clearly delicious. She gazes around as the crane swings them out over the Hudson. The view of Manhattan, of the river, of the Statue of Liberty, is mind bogglingly gorgeous from up here. Naomi bursts out laughing. She sips champagne.
ARTHUR: ( handing her something ) Taste this truffle. Naomi tastes it. It's clearly delicious. She gazes around as the crane swings them out over the Hudson. The view of Manhattan, of the river, of the Statue of Liberty, is mind bogglingly gorgeous from up here. Naomi bursts out laughing. She sips champagne.
NAOMI: What the hell. Gotta go sometime, right? At least it won't be years of pain like mom. Just a few seconds of screaming and falling with a truffle in my mouth.
ARTHUR: So anyway. The tours.
NAOMI: ( CALMING HERSELF )
ARTHUR: What did you write?
NAOMI: A kids' book. I sent a chapter to a childrens' publisher. Sunshine Press'. The rejection letter was the meanest thing I ever read.
ARTHUR: Kids can be so cruel.
NAOMI: ( INTERRUPTING )
ARTHUR: I told you, don't worry. These crane people know what they're Not that kind of problem. Arthur feels a blade at his throat. He looks up to see A JUNKIE, CLEARLY HIGH, standing over him.
NAOMI: Not that kind of problem. Arthur feels a blade at his throat. He looks up to see A JUNKIE, CLEARLY HIGH, standing over him.
JUNKIE: Phone. And the watch. Hurry. Arthur hands him his phone and watch.
ARTHUR: Um. Out of interest, how did you get up here?
JUNKIE: What you talkin' about, dog? We see a sleeping bag and needles behind the tree!
NAOMI: Great. `Picnic in the sky' followed by `Robbed in the sky'! Arthur get the giggles as the junkie reaches into his pocket for his wallet. Naomi gets involuntary giggles too.
NOOOO!: The junkie's walking towards the edge, oblivious! Arthur jumps up, causing the platform to wobble scarily. He grabs the junkie's arm. The junkie swipes, cutting Arthur's hand.
ARTHUR: OWWW! You don't understand! We're 180 feet up in the sky!
JUNKIE: ( LAUGHS )
ARTHUR: No, we're not high! Well we are, but only in the literal sense. The junkie hurries away again. He's about to walk off the edge. Arthur runs and grabs him. They end up in a messy struggle, the platform rocking badly.
NAOMI: I can't find it. Over here?
ARTHUR: No! That's the bouquet of world Naomi finds the truffle station and hits the panic button. Down in a Crane Cab an alarm goes off. The driver starts to lower the platform. Naomi tries to help Arthur as he struggles with the junkie, but she gets slashed on the ear. She screams. As the platform lowers, it swings back over the river to the land and tips them all into the river!
ARTHUR: I had fun tonight. She stares at him as if he's utterly crazy.
NAOMI: I can't believe I'm saying this, but so did I.
ERICA: Summarising Phase Alpha: formal wear for bridal attendants, groom's attendants, mens' formal wear, St John the Divine all confirmed. ARTHUR'S lying on a chaise longue, hungover. A TAILOR stretches a tape measure along him as if measuring a corpse.
ARTHUR: ( TO TAILOR )
TAILOR: I'm sorry?
ARTHUR: In case I'm passed out drunk rather than medically dead?
ERICA: Don't worry, Thomas. This whole thing's just a joke to Arthur. Hobson brings Arthur a glass of water and two Nurofen.
ARTHUR: ( VERY AFFECTIONATE )
VIVIENNE: Take this away.
ERICA: Black inked at the Emery Roth Room at the Ritz-Carlton. The screen lights up with a church graphic.
ARTHUR: Sorry, everyone. that graphic's too colourful and this hangover's a 7.6 on the Richter..the Sickter. Arthur's sick. Erica lays out more sheets.
ERICA: Cakes, caterers, floral arrangements, photographer. Hobson reappears, wipes his mouth and takes the bowl. She stands with it accidentally-on-purpose, very close to Vivienne's nose.
HOBSON: Will there be anything else, sir?
ARTHUR: No, thanks.
HOBSON: ( TO VIVIENNE )
VIVIENNE: No. You can leave.
ARTHUR: Why all this crap now? What's the rush anyway?
BURT: The wedding is in a month, Arthur.
ARTHUR: A month? I was thinking more sort of ten, fifteen years. Just to really enjoy the anticipation of the big day. Arthur gets up.
ERICA: Where are you going?
ARTHUR: ( gets out his cellphone ) Sorry, Dwight D. Bridalshower, Operation Ball and Chain will have to wait.
ARTHUR: Here we are.
NAOMI: We're not going to end up in the Hudson again, are we?
ARTHUR: I can promise you won't get wet.
NAOMI: Are you okay?
ARTHUR: Yeah, fine. Actually.
NAOMI: Hey, Richey Rich. Want to go somewhere really romantic? It's a big tacky shop: JACK'S 99 CENT STORE.
ARTHUR: Everything is 99 cents?
NAOMI: Yip. A whole penny less than those bourgeois assholes at the Dollar Arthur reads a doll's label.
ARTHUR: `Warning: This product contains chromium, which may be linked to chronic bronchitis and reproductive That one was on the news. Everyone else recalled them, the pussies. Not my 99 Cent! Arthur turns the doll over: a sticker reads `China'.
NAOMI: That one was on the news. Everyone else recalled them, the pussies. Not my 99 Cent! Arthur turns the doll over: a sticker reads `China'.
ARTHUR: Maybe China's trying to wipe out the west's children one by one. He gazes around in wonder.
NAOMI: Oh, I love this place.
ARTHUR: Well, I'd like you to believe it's because I'm a poor girl reduced to buying `Depressed Chef' burgers-in- a-can to Right Said Fred because I don't know where my next paycheck is coming from. But the truth is - bargains get me hot. Got it from ma. Drives my dad crazy. The tour?
NAOMI: Well, I'd like you to believe it's because I'm a poor girl reduced to buying `Depressed Chef' burgers-in- a-can to Right Said Fred because I don't know where my next paycheck is coming from. But the truth is - bargains get me hot. Got it from ma. Drives my dad crazy. The tour?
ARTHUR: Yes please. She takes his arm.
NAOMI: Looking west, the ladies' hygiene products. Note that the more natural-sounding the name, e.g. this 'Vermont Breeze' Feminine Spray, the more lethal chemicals it contains. Watch out for the products cunningly labelled to make the dumber consumer think they're getting the real thing: 'Special J', 'Crampbell's Soup', ''Aunt Janina's' Maple-Style Syrup. Arthur holds a tin with a Coffee Mate-style logo, reading `Friend of Coffee'. The store music changes to RICKY MARTIN: `LIVIN' LA VIDA
LOCA': NAOMI ( CONT'D )
ARTHUR: Just fascinated.
NAOMI: You're good at fascinated.
ARTHUR: You're good at fascinating. A CRASH. The old woman has knocked over all the beans.
OLD WOMAN: Not that one.
ARTHUR: ( offers her another ) This one?
OLD WOMAN: ( shaking the tin ) No. There's less beans in it.
ARTHUR: This one?
OLD WOMAN: ( sniffs the tin ) This one? She stares and thinks. Arthur puts the tin to his ear.
ARTHUR: This one? She stares and thinks. Arthur puts the tin to his ear.
OLD WOMAN: ( TO NAOMI )
ARTHUR: Look. Us in a year's time. ANOTHER OLD COUPLE push a cart past. THE OLD WOMAN sneezes. The old man produces a tissue and gently wipes her nose.
NAOMI: I'll get ill. The music changes.
ERICA: Tiger Woods has confirmed!
ARTHUR: I didn't know you knew him.
SUSAN: I don't.
ARTHUR: Why is he coming?
SUSAN: He agreed to daddy's fee. This is going to be the happiest day of my She looks at Hobson.
ARTHUR: If you can bring Erica, I can bring She's my wedding planner.
SUSAN: She's my wedding planner.
ARTHUR: She's my Hobson. Hobson leans into Arthur while tidying his napkin.
HOBSON: ( WHISPERING )
ARTHUR: Reminiscent of a French castle perched 500 feet above New York, the penthouse was known from early days as the `Chateau in the Sky'. He leads her out onto a second rooftop ballroom.
NAOMI: A second ballroom. Obviously. Gotta have a second ballroom.
ARTHUR: Where George Gershwin and the Astors danced to Shep Fields and his Rippling Rhythm Orchestra. He grabs her in a ballroom dance move.
NAOMI: ( PULLING AWAY )
ARTHUR: Behind the telephone box fish tank. See you on the balcony.
NAOMI: He's not like other men, you know.
HOBSON: He's not like other men, you know.
NAOMI: I think I realised that as I plunged into the Hudson with a junkie. But I like him. He's fun. Hobson fights another little cough. She gets up.
HOBSON: I know he is. That's the problem.
NAOMI: What does that mean?
HOBSON: I'm sure Arthur will explain.
ARTHUR: Your kids' book. What was it about?
NAOMI: `Vlad the Inhaler'. About an asthmatic boy detective.
ARTHUR: Be serious.
NAOMI: Oh, it was dumb. `The Boy Whose Heart Escaped'. It was about this kid who wakes up to find his heart has climbed out and is shinning down the drainpipe to freedom.
ARTHUR: I love it.
NAOMI: Rainbow Press said it was too disturbing. But it wasn't literal - there wasn't a kid lying there with a gaping hole in his chest. It was just this cute little heart bouncing up and down shouting `You can't catch me, mofo!'. I'm Did he catch the heart?
ARTHUR: Did he catch the heart?
NAOMI: Never got that far. Arthur wobbles a little more.
ARTHUR: Only if I'm sad, happy or bored. There's this bit in a book Hobson used to read me as a kid that says it all: `We must stop eating cookies, Frog!' cried Toad, as he ate another.'
NAOMI: Frog and Toad! I loved Frog and `Frog put the cookies in a box. `There' he said. Now we will not eat any more cookies.' `But we can open the box.' Frog tied some string around the box. `There' he said, `Now we will not eat any more cookies'. `But we can cut the string and open the box'. Naomi lays her head on Arthur's shoulder.
ARTHUR: ( FROM MEMORY )
NAOMI: That was beautiful. It's like you read it yesterday.
ARTHUR: I couldn't tell her, Hobson. She isn't the Komodo dragon. She's my You're quite sure about this?
HOBSON: You're quite sure about this?
ARTHUR: ( under her breath ) Oh, bollocks.
HOBSON: ( under her breath ) Oh, bollocks.
RALPH: I don't know, honey. What's this teabag even doing here? Couldn't he make it in Lord of the Rings land?
NAOMI: Not that it matters, but he's a You have my full permission to marry him.
RALPH: You have my full permission to marry him.
GRANT: Bravo, Vivienne! Well done! Arthur's watching, sweating in the sunshine, while Marty and Hobson wait in the Bentley.
ARTHUR: I'd be wary, Grant. She's planning to ride you around the course next. Her last boyfriend broke his ankle jumping that ditch. Had to be destroyed on the spot. Vivienne canters her horse up to them.
VIVIENNE: Arthur. What's so urgent that you had to come all the way out here?
ARTHUR: I'm in love. With a woman who isn't exactly who you'd describe as Susan. She's called Naomi.
VIVIENNE: Arthur, we've been through this!
ARTHUR: Won't you at least meet her?
VIVIENNE: What family is she from?
ARTHUR: The Snarts of Detroit.
VIVIENNE: Never heard of them.
ARTHUR: No, because they're normal. She's a walking tour guide, her dad's a retired car worker.
VIVIENNE: Susan will generate quality sons, not oil-soaked car monkeys.
ARTHUR: Unbelievable! Why don't you just keep me here, pay a servant to wank me into a bottle once a day.
VIVIENNE: .then inject it all into a field of heiresses and see who farts out a thoroughbred first?
ARTHUR: .then inject it all into a field of heiresses and see who farts out a thoroughbred first?
VIVIENNE: We need an heir!
ARTHUR: Fine! You can have one with Stevey Steroids here! Surely even your uterus has had a face lift by now. Arthur storms away towards the car.
GRANT: ( STEPPING IN )
ARTHUR: None of your business, J Crew.
GRANT: You are so ungrateful to your mother. She adores you!
VIVIENNE: Arthur. Come back here.
ARTHUR: You can shove your inheritance up your horse's arse!
VIVIENNE: Suit yourself, Arthur. Follow your heart. But do be aware I consider what you've squandered so far an advance on your inheritance. That's about $17 million.
ARTHUR: Why would you do that? You'd never get it back.
VIVIENNE: No. But you'd spend the rest of your life in court. There's a simple solution to all this. Marry Susan. And cheat with the nobody from Queens.
NAOMI: Have you been at the cookies?
ARTHUR: I ate the whole jar.
NAOMI: ( realising it's serious ) Oh, man. What? What?
ARTHUR: I'm engaged. To another Susan. Woman. Engaged to another woman. She slams her menu down.
NAOMI: What are you talking about? This is bullshit. Who do you think you are? Is this some rich guy thing?
ARTHUR: I was going to tell you! I just.
NAOMI: Yeah, yeah, you just.
ARTHUR: Please, Naomi! I didn't mean for it to get to this! I planned to just be your friend but then I started to fall for you and I thought `I can't marry Susan, I might fall for Naomi!' But I thought `No I have to marry Susan or I'll be poor so I won't fall for Naomi' But then I did fall for you! Because you're brainy and funny and gorgeous and too smart to do walking tours. You're too smart, Snart. Smart Snart. There's a 99 cent cereal.
NAOMI: You're frog.
ARTHUR: Thanks. Then she said `Noooo, if you don't marry Susan, I'll make you pay all the inheritance money back even if you can't - ha ha ha'. Okay she didn't laugh but she might as well have, the evil cow. Because it's like all the money ever and they'll put not just me but both of us in prison and your dad, like in Dickens. There'll be ghosts, and Oliver and.. He stops, his mouth flapping like a fish.
NAOMI: Maybe if I'd spotted this facet of your personality earlier we wouldn't be having this She heads towards the door. Arthur regains his lucidity for a Toad? Stay a bit longer. Please?
ARTHUR: Toad? Stay a bit longer. Please?
NAOMI: 'cause it'll reduce the proportion of my life I'll spend feeling utterly miserable. Naomi watches him take another big slug of wine.
ARTHUR: 'cause it'll reduce the proportion of my life I'll spend feeling utterly miserable. Naomi watches him take another big slug of wine.
NAOMI: Bye, Arthur. Arthur looks confused.
ARTHUR: Bea Arthur? What's she got to do with all this? She shakes her head and goes.
NAOMI: It's going to be okay. I'll get you a beer, yeah?
RALPH: I just have to be alone for a minute.Oh, G-d, I can't bear INT. DANE COOK CONCERT - NIGHT Arthur sits miserable, drinking, as he sits beside Susan at a Dane Cook gig.
NAOMI: ( YAWNS )
NAOMI: Please, interrupt. Hell, who wants to come home with me and butt in with questions while I'm watching Letterman? `Yo. How tall is Dave?'
FEMALE TOURIST: When I stand here taking every breath with you, ooh.
NAOMI: What is going on?
NEWSSTAND GUY: And even shared the tears. A Yellow Cab goes by, the driver lip-syncing out the window.
ARTHUR: ( lip syncing too ) So take a look at me now, 'cause there's just an empty space. And there's nothing left here to remind me, just the memory of your Take a look at me now, `cause there's just an empty space, And you coming back to me is against all odds and that's what I've got to face.Just take a look at me The song builds to a dance crescendo. A magical moment. The crowd watches. How can she say no?
NAOMI: Sorry to be a wet blanket, folks. he's getting married. But I guess he didn't choreograph that bit for But..but this took ages to rehearse. I had the frog outfit specially made. These aren't actual I gathered that, Arthur. Are you capable of doing anything without it being a grand gesture?
ARTHUR: But..but this took ages to rehearse. I had the frog outfit specially made. These aren't actual I gathered that, Arthur. Are you capable of doing anything without it being a grand gesture?
NAOMI: I gathered that, Arthur. Are you capable of doing anything without it being a grand gesture?
ARTHUR: What do you mean?
NAOMI: It's like Hobson said. You're not like other men. If you were normal, if the money and the booze didn't cloud everything, you'd deal with the fact that you're engaged, rather than just looking for ways to win me back. But it was a lovely routine, really. Fantastic outfit.
ARTHUR: I just wanted to see you. He takes out his flask and has a swig.
NAOMI: ( SYMPATHETIC )
ARTHUR: Hobson! Female Tom Hanks has had a haircut! Hobson? But Marty pipes up on the little inset Hobson screen. He looks at a note in Hobson's handwriting.
MARTY: It says here you shouldn't forget to clean your junk. I guess that's what.'genitahlio-ah' is.
ARTHUR: Marty? What are you doing there?
MARTY: Hobson left me in charge. She's gone to bed. She had a headache.
ARTHUR: She's had quite a few headaches She blacked out.
MARTY: She blacked out.
HOBSON: Put my bears back on, Arthur.
ARTHUR: Not until you answer my question. Hobson closes her eyes. She hams the next bit.
HOBSON: I'm travelling down a white tunnel. To - a garden? Mother? Father? Why is it so hot? Who's the red gentleman with the big pitchfork?
ARTHUR: Will you cut it out?
HOBSON: Arthur. There are three books. This is important. Take them back to the She feigns a melodramatic death.
ARTHUR: Hobson, please. Don't die any more. It's getting very boring.
HOBSON: Arthur. Old women, like bears, get sore heads. Are you okay? You look a little lost.
ARTHUR: Naomi doesn't want to see me.
HOBSON: A terrible shame she had to go. A little tart like that could have saved you a fortune in prostitutes.
ARTHUR: Listen, old woman. Don't ever talk about Naomi that way again. What gives you the right to be such a snob? You're just.you're just. Mary Poppins with a menopause! Arthur storms out, slamming the door. But within 10 seconds he returns, humbled, ashamed - a regretful naughty child.
HOBSON: I'm sorry too. You know, Arthur, you may be growing up.
ARTHUR: Do you want anything?
HOBSON: I want to be younger.
ARTHUR: Sorry, it's your job to be older.
HOBSON: Of course, Arthur.
HOBSON: Yes, it would be disastrous to harm such a dignified profile. He looks, scared, at the building.
MEGAN: I was waking up four, five, six mornings a week in different mens' Arthur ( in his ludicrous disguise ), Hobson and Marty enter.
JAMES: I steal from my friends, my family. I sold my son's pedal car so I could score junk.
ARTHUR: I accidentally backed my car over my mother outside Walgreens. Marty chuckles. He tries to fist-bump James.
JAMES: I accidentally backed my car over my mother outside Walgreens. Marty chuckles. He tries to fist-bump James.
HOBSON: ( WHISPERS )
JAMES: ( SOBBING )
ARTHUR: Whoooaaahh. Okay, cut. I don't know about anyone else, but this isn't exactly killing my thirst.
LEADER: Well why did you come.What's your Arthur thinks. Seriousness - his least favourite thing - is upon him. He takes a deep breath. But -
ARTHUR: Arthur thinks. Seriousness - his least favourite thing - is upon him. He takes a deep breath. But -
HOBSON: .and because I have done nothing with the astonishing opportunities handed to me, apart from pissing away my inheritance and drinking enough to kill a rhino. Arthur, having heard, comes back in.
ARTHUR: It's always the quiet ones.
ARTHUR: Thanks, Hobson. Maybe you can go every time I crave a drink?
HOBSON: Just promise you'll never ask me to sleep with Susan for you.
NAOMI: Arthur, if that's.
HOBSON: Good afternoon, Mr Snart. Is Naomi You must be the nanny.
RALPH: You must be the nanny.
HOBSON: I must be. Ralph embraces her.
NAOMI: Well, well.
RALPH: Ever since I met Arthur I liked him. We have to make sure these two wonderful kids stay together.
HOBSON: Try not to talk. It's not your words but the breath which bears them. Perhaps you could repair to the East Wing and make me a cup of tea? I wish to speak to Naomi.
RALPH: Sure, sure. Ralph leaves.
HOBSON: Arthur is having a pre-wedding party tonight. You should come.
NAOMI: Oh, should I? Are all the other girls he passed up going too? Hobson picks up a letter from Rainbow Press and peruses it.
HOBSON: Don't you want to show Arthur how well you're doing?
NAOMI: Tell him thanks, but I have a Arthur doesn't know I'm here. He's far too decent to be involved in something so tawdry. You could bring your father. A magical experience before he's too big to leave this apartment.
HOBSON: Arthur doesn't know I'm here. He's far too decent to be involved in something so tawdry. You could bring your father. A magical experience before he's too big to leave this apartment.
NAOMI: ( DISBELIEF )
HOBSON: My dear, if there's one thing old women can tell, it's young men in love. And the food promises to be breathtakingly free. Hobson has a slight dizzy spell and sits down.
NAOMI: Are you alright?
HOBSON: Better than you, dear.
NAOMI: You really look out for Arthur, don't you?
HOBSON: Yes. And it is a job that I recommend highly. Ralph comes back and with a cup of disgusting-looking tea.
NAOMI: Ah, what am I gonna do? The no-kill pet shelter won't take him. Ralph hands Hobson the cup of tea.
HOBSON: Thank you. Would you go the bathroom and commence washing? You only have three hours and it could be quite a project. Ralph goes. Naomi takes the tea.
NAOMI: I appreciate what you're trying to do but I'm not going to that party.
HOBSON: Suit yourself. Hobson gets up, still dizzy.
NAOMI: Have you seen a doctor?
HOBSON: Yes. And he has seen me.
NAOMI: I think Arthur has a very good friend. May I kiss you on the Is it something you feel strongly But Hobson falls back into her chair heavily, looking sicker.
HOBSON: Is it something you feel strongly But Hobson falls back into her chair heavily, looking sicker.
NAOMI: But Hobson falls back into her chair heavily, looking sicker.
VOCALIST: Thanks. We're going to move things up tempo now with `The Only Thing That Looks Good On Me Is You.' The band start playing again. Partygoers hit the dance floor. Vivienne, Susan, Burt and Erica pass a huge ice statue of Susan and Arthur in a loving embrace and amazing catering.
VIVIENNE: Splendid affair, Susan.
SUSAN: Don't thank me, thank Erica. Erica shrugs modestly. Arthur appears. Burt puts a big burly arm around him and squeezes him a little too hard.
NAOMI: With all due respect, Hobson, you're talking out of your frumpy English ass. Arthur needs to know!
HOBSON: You are not to pull him out of that party on my behalf.
RALPH: You're gonna get through this, babe. Then who knows what the future may hold?
DOOR MAN: Excuse me, madam. Name? Madam?
NAOMI: Snart plus one. She hurries in with the bemused, but delighted man. The DOOR MAN checks his clipboard.
PASSING WOMAN: Nice dress. Vera Wang?
NAOMI: Ross Dress For Less. You know where Arthur is?
PASSING WOMAN: ( SHRUGS )
BURT: When Arthur proposed to my daughter, I was overjoyous. The Bach-Templemeads are my kind of people: classy. Respectable. Well spoken. People like in Shakespeare in Love, who esprouse the same values I have always upheld both in my business and spiritual life. But tonight isn't about me or America's leading independent formula brand. Arthur takes the stage to wild applause.
ARTHUR: Thank you, Burt! I've actually prepared a little surprise song with my friends here.
JUSTIN: We meet again!
NAOMI: Yeah. Have you seen Arthur?
JUSTIN: The ballroom. I'll take you to him. Justin takes Naomi's arm and leads her at a leisurely pace. They pass a portrait of Susan.
NAOMI: Of course she is. Why would Arthur marry a pig?
JUSTIN: What business is your family in?
NAOMI: Hm? Oh, I'm the heiress to a fortune built on small pets.
JUSTIN: I'm sorry?
NAOMI: Hamsters, mice, doglets.
JUSTIN: Tiny dogs. The technology's not perfect. Seeing a horse the size of a can of soup fall dead before your eyes - that shit stays with you. They walk through a door, ending up in a garden.
NAOMI: Tiny dogs. The technology's not perfect. Seeing a horse the size of a can of soup fall dead before your eyes - that shit stays with you. They walk through a door, ending up in a garden.
NAOMI: Are you sure he's this way?
JUSTIN: Naomi turns to A WOMAN.
NAOMI: ( to a WOMAN ) Excuse me. Have you seen Arthur?
WOMAN: That way. The ballroom.
NAOMI: Bye, Justin. Naomi hurries away - running straight into the Door Man.
DOOR MAN: Excuse me, madam. You're not an authorized guest.
NAOMI: I know that. I'm here to give Arthur some very important news.
DOOR MAN: Of course you are. ( takes her arm ) Shall we discuss this outside?
NAOMI: ( SHOUTS )
ARTHUR: It's okay, Jeff. She can stay.
NAOMI: Arthur, can I talk to you?
ARTHUR: But what about the other blackouts? Hobson snatches the phone from the Man in a White Coat.
HOBSON: Arthur, I'm fine. Do not leave that INT. JOHNSON MANSION - DRAWING ROOM - DAY Arthur's on the phone, coat on, in a big empty panelled room.
ARTHUR: She's fine. They're sending her home. Do you want a drink?
NAOMI: No, thanks, Arthur. I should go.
ARTHUR: But you came all this way. There's ridiculously fancy food, there's.
NAOMI: Arthur. Please. Can you just call me a cab?
ARTHUR: You're a cab. No laughter this time. It's not funny. He takes out his iPhone again. Stares at it.
NAOMI: Orders cabs to take the girls away? Arthur's busted. He scrolls the phone for a cab number.
ARTHUR: Thank you for coming all this way. I'm sorry for all the stupid presents and calls and gestures.
NAOMI: It's okay. Naomi looks up at a portrait of Burt and young, prissy, but beautiful Susan.
ARTHUR: What were you like as a kid?
NAOMI: Nuts. I thought the moon followed me. I would walk and think the moon went any place that I did. I thought it meant something special would happen. So I've been waiting. What an ass. Arthur sees a sound system. He goes over and plugs his iPhone into it, then takes Naomi in his arms.
ARTHUR: Arthur. We've been through this. Call that cab please. Arthur looks down into her eyes and hits `PLAY' on his iPhone. Music starts: it's not a slow, smoochy song but big, brassy and upbeat.
NAOMI: Arthur. We've been through this. Call that cab please. Arthur looks down into her eyes and hits `PLAY' on his iPhone. Music starts: it's not a slow, smoochy song but big, brassy and upbeat.
MANDY MILLER: To Bombay, a travelling circus came, they brought an intelligent elephant and Nellie was her name.
NAOMI: ( LAUGHING )
ARTHUR: Hobson used to sing it to me.
VIVIENNE: Is this the tour guide?
ARTHUR: She's a writer.
NAOMI: Is this the Vivienne?
VIVIENNE: Crowded field, writing.
ARTHUR: Maybe someone will see her We all know who's seen her Oh, of course, you don't know, do Arthur suddenly goes pale.
VIVIENNE: We all know who's seen her Oh, of course, you don't know, do Arthur suddenly goes pale.
NAOMI: Oh, of course, you don't know, do Arthur suddenly goes pale.
VIVIENNE: Oh, of course, you don't know, do Arthur suddenly goes pale.
ARTHUR: Vivienne, please. Don't.
NAOMI: What is going on here?
VIVIENNE: My son became fond of you. You're not the first. Or the last, I imagine. Anyway I was scanning his monthly expenses - which always makes for entertaining reading, all those gifts for all those girls - and found he'd bought an entire publishing company called.what was it now? Rainbow Press.
NAOMI: You bought Rainbow press? So you could tell them to publish my book?
VIVIENNE: He knows people, dear. I'm sure you do too, though the people you know tend not to own books, let alone publishers. Arthur, I trust we'll see you back at the party? Susan's a little worried. Vivienne leaves. Naomi storms away. Arthur chases.
ARTHUR: NAOMI! PLEASE! I didn't think I would ever see you again. I was just trying to give you some.
NAOMI: ( GASPS )
ARTHUR: I do express love! I love you!
NAOMI: Don't say that!
ARTHUR: You just told me to! And stop going on about me being rich! You think it's easy being trapped by money? Naomi gets her old phone out. She speaks into it.
NAOMI: Hello, Amnesty? Come quick! Arthur's being held against his will in Guantamoney Bay!
ARTHUR: Abu Greed?
NAOMI: Stop riffing with me! How dare you do what you did. I didn't need your money to feel good about myself!
ARTHUR: No. Being cheap gives you that.
NAOMI: At least I'm prepared to have fun. To live. I'm not all `Oooh look at me with my antique food, aren't I cool?' And.and.your phone's RUBBISH! It's made of bits of old doorbell and vibrator, I bet you can only get calls from 1994 on it!
ARTHUR: At least I'm prepared to have fun. To live. I'm not all `Oooh look at me with my antique food, aren't I cool?' And.and.your phone's RUBBISH! It's made of bits of old doorbell and vibrator, I bet you can only get calls from 1994 on it!
NAOMI: ( BOILS OVER )
SUSAN: Hello? I heard shouting.
NAOMI: I'm an employee of Arthur's. I came to complain about the conditions.
ARTHUR: Naomi, please.
NAOMI: Mr Bach-Templemead, I know you thought putting half and half in the staff kitchen was an But some people prefer Coffee Mate! You were disrespectful. I quit! Naomi walks away, slamming a door behind her.
SUSAN: Because you changed the creamer?
ARTHUR: It's okay, Hobson's fine. I spoke to her doctor.
SUSAN: Apparently you didn't.
HOBSON: It's just a headache!
ARTHUR: Stop saying that! You bribed a hospital orderly to tell me you were okay!
HOBSON: Oh, bothersnaps. What do doctors The door opens. Marty enters with a shopping cart.
ARTHUR: Da dahhhh! I give you the amazing costly, health-giving presents! Arthur starts to produce gifts for Hobson: jewellery, expensive bath products, perfumes, clothes, a DVD.
HOBSON: I don't want to put it on.
ARTHUR: Put it on. Or I'll fire you.
HOBSON: ( VADER VOICE )
MARTY: She sounds like Darth Invader! Finally, Arthur unwraps a very high-end DVD player and TV.
HOBSON: Why, Arthur?
DOCTOR: Mr Bach-Templemead? Do you have a INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NIGHT Arthur's looking delighted. But the doctor is grave.
ARTHUR: Home? That's great news. Isn't it?
ARTHUR: How did this get here?
HOBSON: I have no idea.
ARTHUR: You might have a brain tumour but you're not a complete veggie burger just yet. Has Naomi been here?
HOBSON: She dropped by once or twice. Frightful needy trollop.
ARTHUR: I thought she gave up writing. Arthur's reading the manuscript, bearing Hobson's notations: `Shorten', `Wonderful - do NOT cut!', `Beautiful. I cried'.
HOBSON: Just trying to spare her outright humiliation while I'm still here.
ARTHUR: Don't wear yourself out. You're not going anywhere soon. He taps the top of a state-of-the-art heart monitor.
HOBSON: Arthur. I've loved caring for you so much. But you'll never grow up with me around. So either I retire. Or I die. Option 1 involves too much paperwork and blather with having to find somewhere else to live. And no offence to you, dear She glances at a MASSIVE PILE OF BEAR DOCUMENTARY DVDs beside
ARTHUR: But you spent half of it looking after a spoilt drunk twat.
HOBSON: Exactly. Sorry Arthur. I'm past my use-by date.
ARTHUR: Sorry, Hobson, You don't win this one. I need you to care for me. ( holds up a pill ) Now take your fish oil.
ARTHUR: The expensive monitor is dead. He jumps up.
HOBSON!: ( hammering the machine ) Why the fuck has the stupid thing not gone off?
ARTHUR: Would Frog ever get up again? Or would he just sit in his tank, crying and soiling himself until he died of dehydration because he didn't even have the energy to eat a wet sandwich. He looks down at an ashes urn.
HOBSON!: He's rewarded with a face full of ashes. Angrily he spins the turret through 360 degrees, firing paint.
MARTY: How's the tea?
ARTHUR: Shockingly bad, thanks, Marty.
MARTY: Want to talk about the Cubs game?
ARTHUR: Nahhh. Can I be alone please? Marty goes. Arthur picks up his phone and scrolls down to Naomi's name. He thinks for a moment, hits `call'.
ARTHUR: ( leaving a message ) Naomi? I doubt you'll ever get this, because your voicemail probably consists of a 4000 year old woman who writes the message down in hieroglyphics then loses it down the back of her incontinence loin cloth. Hobson died. Hobson died and I've fallen apart. The doorbell rings from off.
VIVIENNE: Arthur! You haven't answered the phone for eight days. Susan's beside herself. What's going on?
ARTHUR: What do you think's going on? Hobson died.
VIVIENNE: Oh, that. She bustles in past Arthur. A PLATOON OF MAIDS follows.
ARTHUR: You're comparing Hobson to.a dog?
VIVIENNE: Well, yes. A faithful, humble companion who.
ARTHUR: Um, I think I'd like you to leave, if that's okay. Now?
VIVIENNE: Remember who pays for this apartment, Arthur. For everything! He guides her out the door.
ARTHUR: Don't worry. If I'm going to drink myself to death I'll need resources. Bye Vivienne.
VIVIENNE: It's mother!
ARTHUR: My mother's dead. He slams the door. The phone rings again.
AHERNE: The last will and testament of Jane `I leave my life savings to the Tulare Bear Sanctuary, Tulare County, California.' Aherne hands Mr Finke A CHECK for $8,864.
ARTHUR: That'll explain the strong smell of bear shit. Sorry. Aherne opens a tiny envelope.
AHERNE: To Arthur Bach Templemead, I leave She produces a teabag.
BURT: I just want you to know, if he doesn't show up for this wedding, I can't know what I'll do.
VIVIENNE: Don't worry, Burt. He's cleaned himself up. He's stopped drinking, he's anxious to get a real job. He's become a responsible citizen.
NAOMI: Due to a tragic error in the architect's drawing, the original Statue of Liberty unveiled in 1886 was just seven inches tall. 100,000 New Yorkers rioted, having come expecting to see something more impressive than a garden gnome holding up an ice cream.
ARTHUR: Arthur pushes his way through the tourists. He sees her bus and headset.
NAOMI: Girl's gotta have a dream.
ARTHUR: Naomi. Can you take the next 60 years off?
NAOMI: Are you okay? You're a mess. You look like you.now.
ARTHUR: Sorry. I accidentally swallowed three bottles of hand sanitizer. Fascinating story.Okay.
NAOMI: I'm so sorry about Hobson. They step away from the tourists.
ARTHUR: I'm sorry about the Rainbow Press.
NAOMI: It's okay. So how did Susan take it that you're not marrying her?
ARTHUR: She didn't.
NAOMI: You haven't told her?
ARTHUR: What's it to you? She's your arch- Are you six? She isn't my enemy. She's the woman you proposed to!
NAOMI: Are you six? She isn't my enemy. She's the woman you proposed to!
ARTHUR: I couldn't tell her! Today's the biggest day of her life!
NAOMI: The wedding's today? When?
ARTHUR: 12. Which is. ( looks at his wrist ) Where's my watch gone?
NAOMI: ( looks at her watch ) It's eight minutes to.
ARTHUR: It's too late, then. Naomi hands Arthur her phone.
NAOMI: St. John the Divine. Can we please just get me some clothes.
ARTHUR: St. John the Divine. Can we please just get me some clothes.
NAOMI: St John..Fourth largest church in the world.111th and Amsterdam. It's about four miles. Better You want me to go there? Like this?
ARTHUR: You want me to go there? Like this?
NAOMI: What's the alternative? Jilt Susan at the altar? Can I expect the same treatment when you dump me?
ARTHUR: No! I love you! Naomi starts herding her tourists onto her bus.
NAOMI: C'mon, folks.
ARTHUR: Naomi! Susan's dad will.
NAOMI: Arthur. Prove you're not the same pampered little boy who can have what he wants then toss it aside when he's bored. Then we'll talk. She sits in the driving seat and belts up.
ARTHUR: Naomi! I don't even know the way!
NAOMI: 5th.right on Broadway.left at Times.Right on 7th.back on Broadway..right on Amsterdam. The church is the big stone pointy thing full of rich people. The bus door shuts. Naomi drives away.
ARTHUR: SHIT! TAXI! A taxi stops. Arthur feels for his pockets. Ah shit.
SHIT! TAXI!: A taxi stops. Arthur feels for his pockets. Ah shit.
DRIVER: About 15 bucks.
ARTHUR: ( to the crowd ) Can anyone spare $15 please?
DRIVER: What about tip? You cheapskate?
ARTHUR: The crowd just stare back. The taxi drives away.
ARTHUR: ( SHOUTS )
TAXI!: A taxi stops. Arthur throws the money to THE DRIVER.
DRIVER: A block and a half.
ARTHUR: Arthur jumps in. The cab screeches away.
GO!: Arthur jumps in. The cab screeches away.
ARTHUR: ( TO PASSERBY )
PASSERBY: Arthur runs down the steps.
ARTHUR: ( to A MALE PASSENGER ) Excuse me. Terribly sorry to bother you, but. Without looking at him, the guy hands him a dollar.
NAOMI: ( into a headset mic ) .originally a rough neighbourhood. Some say it was called 42nd Street because it wasn't safe to spend more than forty seconds on it. A few grudging laughs from the tourists.
MALE TOURIST: Excuse me.
NAOMI: If you burst into song, you're off this bus.
MALE TOURIST: Huh? I want to see St. John the Sorry, sir, that's not on our route today. Anyway.
NAOMI: Sorry, sir, that's not on our route today. Anyway.
FEMALE TOURIST: I want to know if Arthur's gonna make it.
MALE TOURIST: ( WAVES LEAFLET )
NAOMI: EXT. STREET. DAY Arthur comes bounding out of another station. Clutching his dollar, he sees a bus. He runs aboard, and up to the driver.
ARTHUR: Ah! I'm trying to get to. Arthur feels eyes on him. The bus is full of SCHOOL CHILDREN! It's a school bus! They all stare for a beat, then get out cellphones to report the weirdo in their midst, who runs off again and up Broadway, passing a store's line of shopping carts. He starts emptying them of quarters.
MANAGER: A police car rounds the corner.
POLICEMAN: ( INTO MIC )
ARTHUR: I'm not him. ( shows his wrists ) Look ma! No holes. Arthur slips in a side door.
SUSAN: Arthur? What's going on?
ARTHUR: Susan. I can't.I can't. He leads her away from the bridesmaids.
SUSAN: The girl at the party? The one who talked all that rubbish about Coffee Mate? I love her. Susan slaps Arthur. Hard.
ARTHUR: The girl at the party? The one who talked all that rubbish about Coffee Mate? I love her. Susan slaps Arthur. Hard.
SUSAN: Shut up! We're getting married!
ARTHUR: But I don't love you!
SUSAN: And you think I love you?
ARTHUR: Well, yes. What's not to.
SUSAN: I never have.
ARTHUR: Susan, you're upset, you hate me. It's okay. Now I'm sorry, I have to go, or your dad's going to do whatever he did to your boyfriend from college.
SUSAN: Daddy never hurt Alex. He paid her parents to send her away..
ARTHUR: HER? You're..a.
SUSAN: Lesbian. Yes. You may have noticed that daddy is homophobic. He swore he'd disown me if it happened But.why do you want to marry. Arthur glances across, sees Erica skulking.
ARTHUR: But.why do you want to marry. Arthur glances across, sees Erica skulking.
SUSAN: Why else do you think I'd spend more than 30 seconds in your company? You're the perfect cover.
ARTHUR: ( REELING )
SUSAN: Wow. Wow. Well. Uh. ( heads to the door ) Thanks for your honesty. I don't feel so bad about calling this off. Erica steps in his way.
ARTHUR: Wow. Wow. Well. Uh. ( heads to the door ) Thanks for your honesty. I don't feel so bad about calling this off. Erica steps in his way.
SUSAN: Arthur, please. You can drink as much as you like, sneak off to Naomi. We keep the money. We live our lives. Everyone wins.
ARTHUR: I may be a weak, pathetic drunk. But I won't marry a lesbian Dane Cook fan. Arthur pushes past Erica.
ARTHUR: Good evening, St. John the Divine! Anyone in from St. Patrick's? Bialystoker Synagogue? Manhattan Mosque? AA?
ARTHUR: .and the first turned to the second horse and said `That dog just spoke'. The hateful silence that only 500 angry rich people can The joke being that it's inconsistent that the horses can speak but the dog can't. Naomi creeps in at the back.
SUSAN: Daddy, no! Stop it! Vivienne bursts in. Followed by Naomi.
VIVIENNE: Burt! Get off my son! But nothing's going to stop Burt.
SUSAN: ( louder than anyone yet )
DADDY!!!: Susan is over Burt, brandishing a Virgin Mary statue.
BURT: You wouldn't hurt me.
SUSAN: Wouldn't I? You crushed me.
BURT: I just wanted you to be happy.
SUSAN: Bullshit. You wanted to stop me being a lesbian!
BURT: Shut up! Shut up you dirty little dyke harlot!
ERICA: You want some more, bitch? Huh? Arthur looks up at Susan.
SUSAN: Erica, that's enough, honey. Erica stops. Susan kisses her.
ARTHUR: Why didn't you tell me? We could have worked something out. Naomi give Arthur a look.
ARTHUR: OW! Stop it! Why are you doing Because I hate an infection! Keep No, you keep still. He kisses Naomi passionately.
NAOMI: Because I hate an infection! Keep No, you keep still. He kisses Naomi passionately.
ARTHUR: No, you keep still. He kisses Naomi passionately.
NAOMI: What are we going to do, Arthur?
ARTHUR: I'll get a job. I'll model cheap riding boots for people with no horses. You can write books about boys whose lungs have run away.
VIVIENNE: Stop this! Vivienne walks up to the altar.
ARTHUR: Sorry, Vivienne. I can't do that.
VIVIENNE: I beg your pardon?
ARTHUR: You've never earned that title. I wouldn't fake it with Susan. I won't with you.
VIVIENNE: Arthur. I will withdraw this offer forever. Don't doubt me, boy.
ARTHUR: I don't. Arthur shakes Vivienne's hand.
VIVIENNE: Arthur! Arthur! I am serious! If you walk out of that door. They're gone. Vivienne sits in a pew. For once she looks small, old, alone.
ARTHUR: Sorry, Marty. This isn't mine any more. Fancy joining us for a bowl of Special J? Marty gets out. The three walk away up Amsterdam Avenue.
FADE OUT: EXT. QUEENS - NIGHT CAPTION: ONE MONTH LATER INT. NAOMI'S BEDROOM - NIGHT Naomi's typing, sipping `Sprike' ( fake Sprite ). Beside her is a printed manuscript titled `SNART'S FAKE NEW YORK - A Bogus guide to the World's Greatest City.' On the computer screen is: `.the 1765 Irish Hair Famine swept through Manhattan, rendering every resident bald for a week.'
OW!: INT. NAOMI'S BEDROOM - NIGHT Naomi's typing, sipping `Sprike' ( fake Sprite ). Beside her is a printed manuscript titled `SNART'S FAKE NEW YORK - A Bogus guide to the World's Greatest City.' On the computer screen is: `.the 1765 Irish Hair Famine swept through Manhattan, rendering every resident bald for a week.'
ARTHUR: Operational heat controls in a shower are a basic human right! A hole in a pipe sprays his groin with hot water. He screams.
RALPH: Package for you. With any luck an apartment for you and Lurch.
ARTHUR: I thought you liked me.
RALPH: I may have been seduced by money. It happens.
ARTHUR: ( reading it out ) `Can I be your friend at least? Love, Vivienne xxx. P.S. Lunch sometime? P.P.S. The inheritance is yours. It always was.' Arthur looks at Naomi, at Ralph, at Marty.
RALPH: On balance, I'd go for it.
MARTY: Money good. They look at Naomi.
NAOMI: You were never happy rich, honey. It's only been a month. Be strong. Remember: however hard life gets, love will always find a way.
ARTHUR: Brought her for moral support. But I'll do the talking this time.
FADE OUT: Writers : Peter Baynham
