KETCHAM: He balances on one leg, holding his silk-socked foot in the air. He looks at the shoe, already filling with mud. He looks at Rath.
KETCHAM: How much farther?
RATH: Just a little ways. Up to those
KETCHAM: Oh, fuck it.
KETCHAM: Hey, this feels kinda good.
KETCHAM: Hey, do you mind if I talk a little? I feel like, I don't know, talking I guess.
RATH: Funny, I've never been a talker. My wife was always getting on me about that. 'Say what you feel, tell me what's bothering you, you ve got to talk to me.' I never would though. Not really.
KETCHAM: Funny, I've never been a talker. My wife was always getting on me about that. 'Say what you feel, tell me what's bothering you, you ve got to talk to me.' I never would though. Not really.
RATH: Why not?
KETCHAM: I don't know. Part of me wanted to but part of me always said, 'What's she going to be able to do?' I don't know. Maybe I didn't trust her. My Margaret. I loved her but you know what? I cheated on her. All the time. I don't even know why. It wasn't the sex, Margaret was great in bed. I think if I wasn't married I wouldn't have even looked at some of those women. I knew she couldn't trust me, so how could I trust her? If she was here right now I'd think that I would tell her that I was sorry. 'course, if she were here right now, maybe I wouldn't feel like talking.
KETCHAM: My Margaret. I loved her but you know what? I cheated on her. All the time. I don't even know why. It wasn't the sex, Margaret was great in bed. I think if I wasn't married I wouldn't have even looked at some of those women. I knew she couldn't trust me, so how could I trust her? If she was here right now I'd think that I would tell her that I was sorry. 'course, if she were here right now, maybe I wouldn't feel like talking.
KETCHAM: I think I've heard of you.
RATH: It's possible.
KETCHAM: You're pretty famous aren't you?
RATH: I hope not.
KETCHAM: I know this may seem like a strange question, but can I ask you how much the contract was for not to insult you or anything, I know you're a professional, but just for me, I was just wondering.
RATH: It's a common question.
KETCHAM: Oh yeah? I guess we still need to see that price tag. Like art, right? You hang some painting that looks like baby-puke in your living room only if it costs a A dime.
RATH: A dime.
KETCHAM: One hundred thousand? That's it? Jesus. Is that a lot?
RATH: Shit. oh well.
KETCHAM: Shit. oh well.
KETCHAM: I have been thinking about this for a long while. I knew this day was coming. I knew someday someone would make the call on me. I never thought about anyone that I had whacked. What do you call it anyway?
RATH: 'Taken.' That's nice. When I had someone taken I would call our General Contractor, transfer the money and as soon as I hung up the phone I forgot about them.
KETCHAM: 'Taken.' That's nice. When I had someone taken I would call our General Contractor, transfer the money and as soon as I hung up the phone I forgot about them.
RATH: Everyone who plays the game knows the rules.
KETCHAM: That's exactly what I told myself.
KETCHAM: I always wondered what I'd be thinking at this exact moment. I imagined that I would be thinking about the fucker who contracted this, trying to figure out who it was.
RATH: Don't know. That's how it works.
KETCHAM: That's what our General Contractor told us but how can you trust someone like that?
RATH: I thought that I would be thinking about Margaret, or work, or that I'd be having these deep, profound and depressing thoughts but I'm not. I'm trying to think really profound thoughts, but I can't. It seems very funny to me.
KETCHAM: I thought that I would be thinking about Margaret, or work, or that I'd be having these deep, profound and depressing thoughts but I'm not. I'm trying to think really profound thoughts, but I can't. It seems very funny to me.
RATH: What are you thinking about?
KETCHAM: I'm thinking about Moonpies. Ain't that funny? I haven't had a Moonpie since I was ten years old. Right now, I'm thinking how much I'd love one.
RATH: And an R.C.
KETCHAM: Can I ask you something?
RATH: Go ahead.
KETCHAM: What do other guys do?
RATH: Everyone handles it differently. Some are ready, some are not.
KETCHAM: Do they get down on their knees, begging and crying?
RATH: When I thought about this, that was always there, in the back of my head, that image of me on my knees, crying. It wouldn't go away and it would really upset me. It was something that I could never get away from. but now, I feel it's okay. I feel good.
KETCHAM: When I thought about this, that was always there, in the back of my head, that image of me on my knees, crying. It wouldn't go away and it would really upset me. It was something that I could never get away from. but now, I feel it's okay. I feel good.
RATH: Can I ask you a question?
KETCHAM: Why didn't you fade?
RATH: Why didn't you fade?
KETCHAM: You mean quit?
RATH: I used to think about it. I had Margaret. She wanted kids. I thought about moving somewhere far away like, Europe. I could see all of that, the first part, the getting away but I couldn't see that next part. 'Then what?' So I'd stop thinking about it and go back to work. You understand?
KETCHAM: I used to think about it. I had Margaret. She wanted kids. I thought about moving somewhere far away like, Europe. I could see all of that, the first part, the getting away but I couldn't see that next part. 'Then what?' So I'd stop thinking about it and go back to work. You understand?
RATH: Ketcham smiles and looks around at the grove of birch He looks at the sun, bloody red seeping into the black
KETCHAM: I always pictured that I would end in some land fill, under someone else's garbage. I kept picturing those plastic diapers filled with some baby's green shit, covering me. But this is nice. Look at that. I haven't watched the sun set in a million years. Do you mind?
KETCHAM: Look at that. I haven't watched the sun set in a million years. Do you mind?
RATH: Ketcham stares at the last of the light.
KETCHAM: Nice. real nice.
RATH: Yes. Please come in.
ESCORT: Goodness, it's so dark.
RATH: I prefer it like this.
ESCORT: How can a beautiful man like you be shy?
RATH: I prefer it, that's all.
ESCORT: It's okay, honey. We can do it anyway you want.
RATH: Would you like a drink?
ESCORT: I'd love one. Whatever you're
ESCORT: He hands her the drink. Her smile is bright and perfect.
ESCORT: Good will towards men.
RATH: Why are you working today?
ESCORT: Holidays are our busiest days. No one likes to be alone on holidays. I know I don't.
RATH: You're very good at this aren't I think you're supposed to answer that question.
ESCORT: I think you're supposed to answer that question.
RATH: I know what you expect, but I don't want.
ESCORT: That's okay, hon, I always expect the unexpected.
RATH: I called because I just want. I need to talk.
RATH: I've been thinking about my life, about things I have done. What I do for a living is in some ways similiar to what you do.
RATH: I know that everything has a price. I want you to understand that I'm willing to pay.
ESCORT: For what?
RATH: She puts the envelope down.
RATH: I just want to ask you some
RATH: Do you ever regret things you've Everyone regrets something.
ESCORT: Everyone regrets something.
RATH: But when you finLsh a job, afterwards do you think about Do you think about their wives or their families?
ESCORT: Do you think about their wives or their families?
RATH: Do you think about their wives or their families?
ESCORT: No. They call me, I don't call them. If they didn't call I wouldn't exist.
RATH: Do you ever think about starting All the time.
ESCORT: All the time.
RATH: Can you tell me about it?
ESCORT: Sometimes I dream that I meet a man, this good, honest man and we fall in love. I imagine us living on a boat, reading books, sailing to places where no one knows who we were or cares what we did.
RATH: And what if you never meet that
ESCORT: Then, I'll sail alone.
RATH: Do you believe that?
ESCORT: Are you asking me if I believe in another life?
ESCORT: I have to.
ESCORT: Is that all you want?
RATH: She picks up the money and stands.
RATH: Thank you.
ESCORT: INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT It is the same room but now it is very cluttered, room service trays and empty liquor bottles tossed about. He has been here for a while. He is sitting at the table, staring intensely at a chess game; we see the board and all of the pieces set in the same positions as in the opening sequence. He rubs at the whiskers that have darkened his face and then finishes off another bottle of bourbon. He flings the empty bottle across the room as he reaches over the board and moves one of white knights, taking a black rook. A sequence begins, obvious, and he works through it moving both the black and white pieces. Suddenly he stops. He gets up and shifts to the other side of the board, studying the game from white's perspective. Another sequence emerges and he trades the pieces through it as he moves around the table, returning to his place behind the black king. The games reaches its end as black is check-mated. He slumps down onto the table and looks across at the white king.
RATH: Fuck you, Nick.
RATH: I don't give a fuck
RATH: Fuck you, fuck Cleveland, and fuck your contracts
RATH: You fucking should be
LEEVIO: A FIFTH, SIXTH and SEVENTH SHOT. Leevio's body falls forward and softly thuds on the table. Bain whips around drawing a small SEMI-AUTOMATIC WEAPON from his belt expecting an attack. Facing the screaming crowd, he begins to SHOOT anyone who moves or stands, men or women. There is chaos in the restaurant. People scream, falling to the ground, scrambling under tables. Bain is sweating, his eyes shifting wildly from one end of the room to the other. The restaurant falls quiet except for several people who are sobbing. He moves through the room, watching, searching.
BAIN: Don't anybody move. You move, you're dead.
BAIN: Come on, you chicken shit motherfucker. I know you're here. Let's go.
BAIN: You! Get up!
BAIN: You, too! Up!
BAIN: Not yet. Don't move or you're fucking dead.
RATH: Shit. Just do them all. All of them. Shit.
BAIN: Now run!
RATH: Shit. What are you doing, old man? You're too fucking slow.
RATH: Okay. Which one? Which one is
RATH: He takes aim.
BAIN: INT. PARKING GARAGE Rath waits, steely calm, his finger on the trigger.
RATH: Your move.
BAIN: Don't shoot! Don't shoot! I give
COP: Hit the ground! Face down! Spread your legs! Hey, don't touch that!
BAIN: Hey, don't touch that!
COP: Shut up!
RATH: Son of a bitch.
COP #2: This is 181, returning with suspect involved in multiple shooting at Trattoria Roma. Repeat, en route with suspect.
COP #2: Jesus Christ, do you know who you shot in there?
COP #2: What are you? Some kind of a
COP #2: You know what we call guys like you?
COP #2: Sizzle lean. They're gonna fry your
RATH: I'm not done yet.
RATH: This is 1242. I got it.
BAIN: Is there a problem?
RATH: No. No problem. The airport,
BAIN: The cab pulls out of the intersection.
RATH: How'd you cut yourself?
BAIN: Oh? Working. A little accident.
RATH: You a waiter? You look like a
BAIN: Yeah. Yeah, I'm a waiter.
RATH: What restaurant?
BAIN: What restaurant?
RATH: What restaurant?
BAIN: Uh, Fontella's
RATH: So you're from around here?
BAIN: No. No I'm not.
RATH: Where you from?
BAIN: What is this?
RATH: Not too good at small talk, eh?
BAIN: Look, I'm real tired and I'm not interested in fucking chit-chat.
RATH: I know just what you mean. I'm pretty beat myself. Since you looked like a waiter, I had to ask what restaurant because of what happened at the Trattoria
RATH: Since you looked like a waiter, I had to ask what restaurant because of what happened at the Trattoria
BAIN: Why? What happened?
RATH: Didn't you here all them sirens? It's been all over the radio. Some guy shot Leevio Valli, and a bunch of bystanders, in the Trattoria No shit.
BAIN: No shit.
RATH: Yeah, it's terrible. I mean Valli, and I don't care what office he's running for, the guy's a crook. He probably had it coming, but all the other people. Real sad.
BAIN: But they caught the guy. I heard it all. Sounded like he just went berserk, fucking loco. Shooting anybody. Drugs, probably.
RATH: But they caught the guy. I heard it all. Sounded like he just went berserk, fucking loco. Shooting anybody. Drugs, probably.
BAIN: I'd love to sit in that jury. Send that S.O.B. right to the chair.
RATH: I'd love to sit in that jury. Send that S.O.B. right to the chair.
BAIN: Sizzle lean.
BAIN: What are you doing?
RATH: That was Peterson back there. That goes to the expressway for the You're right. Talking too much Yeah well, you just blew your tip, What? You think I'm running you up?
BAIN: That was Peterson back there. That goes to the expressway for the You're right. Talking too much Yeah well, you just blew your tip, What? You think I'm running you up?
RATH: You're right. Talking too much Yeah well, you just blew your tip, What? You think I'm running you up?
BAIN: Yeah well, you just blew your tip, What? You think I'm running you up?
RATH: What? You think I'm running you up?
BAIN: Just do your job.
BAIN: What are you doing?
RATH: Get out. You think I'm running you up? Get out.
BAIN: You can't
RATH: The hell I can't. It's my cab. I don't like you. So, get the hell
BAIN: Holy fucking shit!
BAIN: I get out, you got me.
BAIN: Now what?
RATH: We're both going to the airport.
RATH: Sit back. Put your seatbelt on.
BAIN: No fucking way.
RATH: Okay, don't.
RATH: If either of us fucks around, the other can blow the fuel line. Jesus I'm being driven to the airport by Robert Rath.
BAIN: Jesus I'm being driven to the airport by Robert Rath.
BAIN: I can't believe this. You rolled some cabby for the radio, then waited for an airport fare.
BAIN: Boy, that's fucking genius. You're a fucking genius. Then you're just sitting there, bullshitting with me. Man, no way I coulda done that!
RATH: What's your name? We both know it's not Nicholai.
BAIN: Holy shit! Robert Rath wants to know my name.
BAIN: Bain. Michael Bain.
RATH: How long have you been freelance?
BAIN: Two years. Two long fucking years.
BAIN: Hey. What I don't get was why didn't you take the shot inside the restaurant? I mean you had me, a free shot. That's what I would have It's just a shoot-out then. Sixty- forty, at best. Not my odds.
RATH: It's just a shoot-out then. Sixty- forty, at best. Not my odds.
BAIN: Sounds like chickenshit
BAIN: Listen to me calling you Is that a wig? Shit, I hate wigs! Wigs are the worst part of this job. I'd rather dye my hair than wear a
BAIN: Is that a wig? Shit, I hate wigs! Wigs are the worst part of this job. I'd rather dye my hair than wear a
RATH: You're wearing a wig now.
BAIN: God damn are you good. Everyone says you're so fucking good. I just can't believe I'm still alive. If I believed in God, I'd be down on my knees. Right now Hey, how come you just didn't plug us all when we came through the door?
BAIN: Shit if I was you, back there Game over.
BAIN: Game over.
BAIN: Do you mind if I ask you a couple of business questions? You know I was wondering how much you bid this job
BAIN: You don't have to tell me that. It's just, I know my bid was low, but was it too low? I mean, did I seem like an amateur, like I didn't know what I was doing?
RATH: We both know what you were doing. Smith and Wesson .22 with an eight inch silencer. Classic. When I first heard you used that, I thought, shit, that's a lady's gun. Now, it's all I use. Clean, real
BAIN: Smith and Wesson .22 with an eight inch silencer. Classic. When I first heard you used that, I thought, shit, that's a lady's gun. Now, it's all I use. Clean, real
BAIN: Would you really blow us?
BAIN: Oh! I got a question. Jesus, this has been driving me crazy for years shit, listen to me. I sound like some fucking fanboy. I'm sorry, but I just got to ask you. Everybody talks about how you left the Agency and got into the business and then how you went after the Russian, Nicholai Talinkov
RATH: Yeah, that's it. And he's like a fucking genius. They said he shaded you over and over. And in the end, he aced you again. Shaded and faded. They say he's living on some Greek island, but I say that's fucking bullshit. I say you're the best and that you planted his ass. Am I right?
BAIN: Yeah, that's it. And he's like a fucking genius. They said he shaded you over and over. And in the end, he aced you again. Shaded and faded. They say he's living on some Greek island, but I say that's fucking bullshit. I say you're the best and that you planted his ass. Am I right?
BAIN: I bet I'm right.
BAIN: Robert Bain, driving me! Jesus fucking Christ!
RATH: After those cops, you'll never be able to come back to Cleveland.
BAIN: Who the fuck cares about Cleveland. Cleveland blows. What kind of marks have they got here? Greasy mobster, teamster or some hand job politician. I want the money marks. I want the marks that you get.
BAIN: So what happens now?
RATH: We go around once.
BAIN: He throws off his seatbelt.
BAIN: You tell me that we're gonna go around once, then, while I'm checking out the lay of the land, you bail out and send me flying over the bridge. Right? Am I right?
RATH: What? What's okay?
BAIN: What? What's okay?
BAIN: What are you doing?
RATH: There's a sand barricade up ahead; I'm going to ram this cab into it. The cab has an airbag, odds are good I'll survive. But with this steel casing and bullet proof glass, odds for you are not so good.
BAIN: Oh man, that's sweet. That's fucking sweet.
BAIN: You're bluffing.
BAIN: You're fucking with me. You want me to jump. I jump, you hit the brakes and bang Game over.
BAIN: No, no. Wait. You don't want me to jump. You're going to jump. I'm stuck back here until it's too late. Wham over!
RATH: I know you're going to jump.
RATH: You're still young. Young enough to still think you're indestructible. Invincible. You believe with utter certainty you can bail out at the last second and survive. If you do survive, we'll see each other again.
RATH: If you do survive, we'll see each other again.
ELECTRA: Jennifer is too stunned to say anything. There is a long pause that is not at all like television. It seems very She starts to say something, but stops, trying to keep herself from crying.
ELECTRA: Mmm, smell that, Nikita?
ELECTRA: I hope she saves some for us.
ELECTRA: INT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT There is a system set up that is not unlike Rath's system; all of the same components, though the equipment is bigger, more powerful and less portable. On a table there is a bank of phones, several cellular. Electra is talking on one.
ELECTRA: I wasn't watching television.
ELECTRA: I thought it was interesting
ELECTRA: Right. In my hands I have five back-up disks he made of all of his work last night.
ELECTRA: I'll make my usual arrangements and expect my usual bonus.
ELECTRA: A pleasure doing business with you.
RATH: I bet you fucking know!
RATH: I give a fuck? I'm done! I quit! Do you fucking hear me! I'm fucking He stole another contract. I'm being set up. Fucking set up!
RATH: I'm being set up. Fucking set up!
RATH: Is this how it went, Nick?
RATH: A joke? A joke? You think this is a fucking joke?
RATH: You think this is a fucking joke?
RATH: A player?
RATH: Sorry. My mistake.
RATH: Hi. Up ahead my boss is in that black limo. We're not sure which hotel we're at, so could you just follow them?
CABBY: Rath sits back studying the faces exiting the terminal as the cab pulls away.
AKIRA: We hear Electra's voice. She speaks in Japanese; he uses
AKIRA: Your Japanese is excellent.
ELECTRA: I'll call you again in twenty
ELECTRA: Excuse me, your Highness.
ELECTRA: Room 1414.
RATH: One vegetarian plate and a can of tuna fish. Room 1014.
ELECTRA: Ten thousand dollars per disk. Insert the first disk now.
"TETRIS.": Suddenly, he stops.
BAIN: The display of the game reads "Game Over" and congratulates Bain on a new high score. Bain stands, smiling. He puts the game in his pocket and starts down the hall.
BAIN: He raises his arm, his GUN spitting SILENT BULLETS.
ELECTRA: Oh, God.
AKIRA: Don't kill me.
RATH: Don't be stupid and you will live.
RATH: EXT. HYATT HOTEL - DAY Electra's black CAR ROARS out of the garage, onto the open INT. HYATT HOTEL - DAY The door swings open. From the hall we can hear the familiar BEEPING of the COMPUTER GAME. The room, 1014, is the same as Electra had left it when she ran out. Jutting from a shadow on the floor is the corner of Ken's INT. ELECTRA'S CAR Electra drives, obviously nervous, as Rath watches out the rear window.
RATH: Turn here.
RATH: How many bodies were there?
ELECTRA: He has to clean up. How many bodies were there?
RATH: He has to clean up. How many bodies were there?
ELECTRA: Um, five.
RATH: One hour per man.
BAIN: Hi. This is room 1414 Yes, could you send up a pot of coffee and my friends are going to need some more towels. Thanks.
BAIN: Yes, could you send up a pot of coffee and my friends are going to need some more towels. Thanks.
RATH: Get on the expressway.
ELECTRA: Where are we going?
RATH: Nowhere yet.
ELECTRA: Nikita, hush.
ELECTRA: She won't stop unless you let her
RATH: Nikita? She helped me find you.
ELECTRA: What? How did you know I had a cat?
RATH: Took a guess. Lucky for you, I guessed right.
ELECTRA: Who the fuck are you? Who do you work for?
RATH: I work for the government.
ELECTRA: She studies his face, his eyes.
ELECTRA: You're one of them, aren't you? A fucking pro.
RATH: You're one of them, aren't you? A fucking pro.
ELECTRA: You're one of them, aren't you? A fucking pro.
RATH: I'm part of the game, just like you.
ELECTRA: He reaches into the back seat, grabbing her bag.
ELECTRA: What do you think you're doing?
RATH: Twenty large? That's all?
ELECTRA: What do you mean, 'that's all'? What in the hell do you know?
RATH: The bonus on the contract for you was one million dollars.
RATH: Slow down.
RATH: I figure that means these are worth ten times that, maybe more.
ELECTRA: Ten million
RATH: Now you understand why I'm here.
RATH: I really think you should slow down.
BELLBOY: Hello, sir. Have you some luggage you need carried.
BAIN: Indeed I do.
ELECTRA: Now what?
RATH: Turn off the engine. You want me to pump?
ELECTRA: You want me to pump?
RATH: No, stay in the car. I want you to understand something. If I intended to kill you, you would already be
ELECTRA: Okay, Nikita, stay calm, think, breathe, think.
ELECTRA: Come on, come on, it's a cake walk.
RATH: Oh shit.
ELECTRA: Please, please.
RATH: EXT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT Electra's car is parked out front. She unlocks the lobby door and drags herself inside.
JENNIFER: Excuse me
JENNIFER: You live here, don't you?
JENNIFER: I'm sorry, this may sound really weird, but my friend told me he slipped a letter under the door here and I was wondering if you happened to see it?
ELECTRA: Yeah. He said he saw a woman with dark hair going into the building when he dropped it off.
JENNIFER: Yeah. He said he saw a woman with dark hair going into the building when he dropped it off.
ELECTRA: No. I don't have it.
JENNIFER: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to I'm
BAIN: Fuck me!
RATH: Want a drink?
RATH: He returns to his table with his drink.
RATH: I'm not good at this sort of thing, but we don't have a lot of time, so I'll just go ahead and get started. First: you. I ask myself, 'What is she thinking?'
RATH: Simple. She's scared. She's almost been killed twice and now she is alone in a room with a man that she believes is an. assassin.
RATH: Furthermore she was brought here not entirely on her own accord which only increases her fear and suspicion. Thus, as long as she is afraid, her first, maybe her only thought will be escape. Does that leave me any other option?
RATH: Crossing the room, he turns the gun around and offers it to her. She looks at it. Back at him. He puts it on the bed beside her, turns his back and walks to the bar. She picks up the gun.
RATH: The gun is silenced. She could shoot me right now.
RATH: She could take the car and be far from here before the maid comes in the morning, but
ELECTRA: Shut up!
ELECTRA: Stop trying to tell me what I'm
ELECTRA: I'll tell you what you're thinking you think I'm not going to shoot you but right now you're not so sure, are you?
ELECTRA: You're thinking that maybe it was a mistake to give me this gun, that maybe I'm not going to think about things logically because I'm a woman and I'm freaked out and I'm going to do something impulsive and irrational right?
ELECTRA: You don't know shit about me! Now sit down!
ELECTRA: Okay. How did you find me?
RATH: You're the computer hacker, you tell You didn't know anything about me.
ELECTRA: You didn't know anything about me.
ELECTRA: Yellow Pages. V for veterinarian. There aren't that many.
RATH: Yellow Pages. V for veterinarian. There aren't that many.
ELECTRA: You're one of them, aren't you?
RATH: An assassin?
ELECTRA: An assassin?
RATH: Until a minute ago.
ELECTRA: What does that mean?
RATH: If I still was what I used to be, you would not be pointing that at
ELECTRA: Who is that other guy?
RATH: Another contractor.
ELECTRA: Someone hired both of you?
RATH: No. They hired Bain. The contract would have been mine, but Bain took it from me as he took the previous So this is something between you and He stole the contract knowing that I would come after him.
ELECTRA: So this is something between you and He stole the contract knowing that I would come after him.
RATH: He stole the contract knowing that I would come after him.
ELECTRA: Because he is trying to retire me.
RATH: Because he is trying to retire me.
ELECTRA: He wants to kill you?
RATH: The nature of the business. You remove your competition.
ELECTRA: The nature of the business. You remove your competition.
RATH: The nature of the business. You remove your competition.
ELECTRA: And you want to use me to get him?
RATH: Forget it!
ELECTRA: Forget it!
RATH: We don't have a choice.
ELECTRA: Don't tell me I don't have a choice!
RATH: I'm two seconds away from making my choice which means you've got two seconds to tell me why I shouldn't shoot you.
ELECTRA: I'm two seconds away from making my choice which means you've got two seconds to tell me why I shouldn't shoot you.
RATH: It's simple. You need me. I need you. And we will both need money.
ELECTRA: I don't need you to get the money my money!
RATH: If it hadn't been for me, you would be dead.
ELECTRA: I don't need the money.
RATH: This is something that is never going to end. You can never work in the business again with this contract, because he will find you. To survive, you have to go into deep hiding. And that's going to take money, a lot of money.
ELECTRA: Then you can have the disks and I'll just walk out that door
RATH: If you walk out that door, Bain will still come after you.
ELECTRA: Because he took a contract on you. He'll come for you and he'll find You don't know that you're trying to scare me.
RATH: Because he took a contract on you. He'll come for you and he'll find You don't know that you're trying to scare me.
ELECTRA: You don't know that you're trying to scare me.
RATH: No. It's the truth. I know what you are. Like me, like Bain, you're a ghost, you're not part of the real world. You don't have a social security number. You don't pay taxes. You've probably used ten different names over the last ten years. A long time ago something probably happened, something illegal and you ran, you disappeared and it was easy. You think you can do it again. But I'm telling you, fading from the law is nothing. No matter what you do, where you go, I swear to you that Bain will find you.
ELECTRA: Right now, as we sit here, he is tearing through your apartment. He is digging through your drawers, emptying your closets. He will take your telephone and address books, your appointment books. If you keep a diary, he is reading it. He'll go into the kitchen and find out what kind of food you eat, liquor you drink, cigarettes you smoke. In the bathroom he will find any prescription drugs you take and where you get them filled. If you have video tape or recordings he will watch and listen to all of
RATH: Right now, as we sit here, he is tearing through your apartment. He is digging through your drawers, emptying your closets. He will take your telephone and address books, your appointment books. If you keep a diary, he is reading it. He'll go into the kitchen and find out what kind of food you eat, liquor you drink, cigarettes you smoke. In the bathroom he will find any prescription drugs you take and where you get them filled. If you have video tape or recordings he will watch and listen to all of
ELECTRA: Oh Jesus Jesus.
RATH: He will know everything about you. Everything. I know, because I've done it. Once you've been inside a mark's home, you're in their head. If you're any good, you'll find the mark in a week, and Bain is good because I was the best and I couldn't take him.
ELECTRA: Shut up! All right! You've said I need to think. To be alone.
ELECTRA: I need to think. To be alone.
ELECTRA: Oh shit, Nikita.
ELECTRA: Electra finishes another sample and drops it to the floor where we see that many of the bottles are now empty. In the tub, steam rising off the surface, she wrings out a wash cloth and covers her face, sinking deeper into the INT. BEDROOM When Electra comes out of the bathroom, Rath is again at his chess game. She sits down across from him and sets the gun on the table between them. Rath looks up at her.
ELECTRA: Listen I don't even know your Rath. Robert Rath.
RATH: Rath. Robert Rath.
ELECTRA: Just Electra?
RATH: Just Electra?
ELECTRA: As in daughter of Agamemnon?
RATH: As in daughter of Agamemnon?
ELECTRA: No. Just Electra.
ELECTRA: What I'm trying to say is that I'm not sure I can do this, help you, unless I know more about you.
RATH: What do you want to know?
ELECTRA: If Bain hadn't taken the contract on me, would you have?
RATH: Because I'm done.
ELECTRA: Because I'm done.
RATH: Because I'm done.
ELECTRA: This is crazy. I can't trust you. You can't trust me. How can we possibly help each other?
RATH: Do you play?
ELECTRA: With computers.
RATH: It's not the same, is it?
ELECTRA: Better than playing with yourself.
RATH: I had an opponent.
ELECTRA: He was Russian. Nicholai Tachlinkov. A legend in the business when I was just starting. I admired him. When I heard he loved chess I became obsessed with the game.
RATH: He was Russian. Nicholai Tachlinkov. A legend in the business when I was just starting. I admired him. When I heard he loved chess I became obsessed with the game.
ELECTRA: He was white?
ELECTRA: It looks like white's game.
RATH: We played with a code using York Times obituaries. Over three years we played twelve matches. I never won.
ELECTRA: Why didn't you finish this game?
RATH: He was. taken.
ELECTRA: He was killed.
ELECTRA: By who?
RATH: I killed him.
ELECTRA: Because that's how it works. That's what it's about. He was the best. He was on top.
RATH: Because that's how it works. That's what it's about. He was the best. He was on top.
ELECTRA: Where you wanted to be?
RATH: Yes. As soon as you get into this business, all you can think about is getting to the top. That's all there is. Until then, there is nothing. You are nothing.
ELECTRA: How did you get into the business?
RATH: The same way everyone does; the government, the Agency.
ELECTRA: The C.I.A.?
RATH: More or less.
ELECTRA: How old were you?
RATH: They recruited me when I was in high Jesus why?
ELECTRA: Jesus why?
RATH: Languages. I was already fluent in nine languages.
ELECTRA: You were like a boy genius?
RATH: Some people said that. I never thought so.
ELECTRA: Why not?
RATH: I was just different.
ELECTRA: You went from high school to the No. I graduated from George Washington University. Then I entered the Agency training program.
RATH: No. I graduated from George Washington University. Then I entered the Agency training program.
ELECTRA: They didn't give you a choice, did No, they didn't.
RATH: No, they didn't.
ELECTRA: But you knew what they were training you for?
RATH: Of course. I was going to be James They are very good at what they do. It's very seductive. The training, the weapons, the travel
ELECTRA: They are very good at what they do. It's very seductive. The training, the weapons, the travel
RATH: They are very good at what they do. It's very seductive. The training, the weapons, the travel
ELECTRA: The exotic women.
RATH: Women? No. not really.
ELECTRA: Why not?
RATH: Women. I don't. I don't want to talk about women.
ELECTRA: Because you are a women.
RATH: Because you are a women.
ELECTRA: Why did you leave the Agency?
RATH: The same reason everyone does. You hear your name on C-SPAN and you realize you're a skeleton in someone's closet and they're coming to bury you.
ELECTRA: They tried to kill you?
RATH: Yes. It didn't matter much to them as long as I disappeared.
ELECTRA: Then you went freelance?
RATH: The only thing different about the private sector is that a General Contractor takes less of a percentage than the government, so you make more money. Then once you make the transition, you realize you were never working for the government; it was always the private sector, the vested interests and it's the same vested interests that continue to buy your plane Tell me about the first time.
ELECTRA: Tell me about the first time.
RATH: My first take?
ELECTRA: Because I want to know.
RATH: Because I want to know.
ELECTRA: Because I want to know.
RATH: It was. mechanical. Very precise. It was exactly like the training drill except for the adrenaline.
ELECTRA: Are they usually like that?
RATH: No. Just the first one.
ELECTRA: After that?
RATH: They become complicated. messy.
ELECTRA: Did it ever bother you?
RATH: Did it ever bother James Bond?
ELECTRA: That's fiction.
RATH: This is fiction! Don't you see that? This is another reality. And the people that come into the world to play this game nobody forces them! They're here, they know the rules, the stakes, the risks! Do you understand what I am saying? No one is innocent including you!
ELECTRA: Does that mean it didn't bother you?
RATH: You get a job swinging a hammer, the first day you get a blister, it tears open, it bleeds and it stays sore a long time. You keep swinging the hammer, you get a good hard callous that covers that spot and it never bothers you again.
RATH: He leans back.
RATH: Is that what you wanted to hear? Something cold blooded. something No. Something honest.
ELECTRA: No. Something honest.
ELECTRA: He smiles.
ELECTRA: I hope your plan is better than your
BAIN: I'm on the scent.
BAIN: No. No. No. I don't believe it.
BAIN: There is no response.
BAIN: I don't give a fuck what you are. I asked you
BAIN: ( types ) How in the fuck do you know that?
ELECTRA: Three days?
ELECTRA: Are you going to tell him?
RATH: It. Tell it. For all I know it could be a machine.
ELECTRA: You said you didn't trust it.
RATH: I don't.
ELECTRA: What kind of bank is going to allow us to withdraw ten million dollars the day it is transferred?
RATH: The kind preferred by drug smugglers, arms dealers and
RATH: Do you have a passport?
ELECTRA: Where is it?
RATH: Where is it?
ELECTRA: Where is it?
RATH: INT. AIRPLANE - DAY Rath and Electra are sitting in the first class section, which she is obviously enjoying, smiling and sipping Rath says nothing, staring out the window. Electra shakes her head.
ELECTRA: God, I love first class. I remember when I was a little girl, I would wonder what it was like up here. I would always try to peek through the
ELECTRA: I hope Nikita's all right.
ELECTRA: Hey, where are you?
RATH: Electra sips the last of her champagne.
ELECTRA: Electra sips the last of her champagne.
RATH: Electra sips the last of her champagne.
ELECTRA: I've never been to the Gulf of Mexico. Is it as nice as they say?
RATH: I don't know.
ELECTRA: You were there?
RATH: EXT. SMALL MEXICAN AIRPORT - DAY The plane lands.
RATH: ( in Spanish ) Good afternoon. We have reservations at the Hotel Paraiso in Costa Blanca.
CABBY: ( in Spanish ) Yes, sir.
RATH: ( in Spanish ) No, no. I said the Hotel Paraiso.
CABBY: ( in Spanish ) Yes. This is the Hotel Paraiso.
RATH: ( in Spanish ) No, the other Hotel Paraiso, in the city. Near the Plaza del Sol.
CABBY: ( in Spanish ) I'm sorry, sir. A year ago there was a fire in the old Hotel Paraiso. This is the new Hotel Paraiso.
RATH: ( in Spanish ) Take us there.
ELECTRA: So, that's where all that S money is?
RATH: That's where he'll be.
ELECTRA: I wasn't expecting this. I need to
RATH: I wasn't expecting this. I need to
ELECTRA: Did you see them?
ELECTRA: They looked like they were in love.
ELECTRA: Well, I think I'll take a bath. Come on, Nikita!
ELECTRA: That felt great. You should try it.
ELECTRA: Don't you ever get tired of playing the same game?
RATH: Why not?
ELECTRA: Why not?
RATH: It helps me to focus. It centers me, helps me think.
ELECTRA: Oh. What do you think about?
RATH: Work. The things I need to get
ELECTRA: Do you think about the game?
RATH: But you've never figured out a way to win.
ELECTRA: But you've never figured out a way to win.
RATH: Not even a stalemate?
ELECTRA: Not even a stalemate?
RATH: What happens if you do?
ELECTRA: What happens if you do?
ELECTRA: Can I ask you something?
ELECTRA: What will you do if this works, if we get the money?
RATH: I don't know. maybe I'll live on a boat, sail to all the places I've never been.
ELECTRA: That sounds nice.
ELECTRA: I'm kind of tired. I think I'd like to try and get some sleep.
RATH: You can have the bed. The chair is fine for me.
ELECTRA: She slips out of the robe and in between the sheets. Rath sits across the room, his back to her. She tries to make herself comfortable, but cannot.
ELECTRA: Do you think he's here?
RATH: In Costa Blanca.
ELECTRA: In Costa Blanca.
RATH: She thinks.
ELECTRA: What do you think he's doing?
RATH: I don't know. But I'm sure he's not sleeping.
BAIN: You're dead, motherfucker.
RATH: Why don't you bring it out here? It's beautiful out here.
ELECTRA: Why don't you bring it out here? It's beautiful out here.
ELECTRA: I know what you are thinking. I'm not going to disappear, okay? I'm not going anywhere, just down there, to that beautiful beach. I got to get out of this room, just for a little while.
RATH: He won't be looking for you. Just be careful. Buy a book. Keep your sunglasses on.
ELECTRA: He won't be looking for you. Just be careful. Buy a book. Keep your sunglasses on.
RATH: He won't be looking for you. Just be careful. Buy a book. Keep your sunglasses on.
ELECTRA: Book. Sunglasses. Great.
RATH: You should knock.
ELECTRA: How was the beach?
RATH: How was the beach?
ELECTRA: The beach? It was nice.
ELECTRA: That was beautiful.
ELECTRA: Tai Chi, right?
ELECTRA: Where did you learn it?
RATH: Not that I would know, but you look like you're really good at it.
ELECTRA: Not that I would know, but you look like you're really good at it.
RATH: Thank you.
ELECTRA: I've always wanted to learn something like that.
RATH: You should. It's very important, that the body release the energy that builds in it. I'm going to shower. If you're hungry, go ahead and order some
RATH: I'm going to shower. If you're hungry, go ahead and order some
RATH: I'm going to call.
ELECTRA: Oh, my God. Ten million dollars.
RATH: Sit down.
RATH: He starts drawing several squares on the paper, as Electra picks up the mike. She looks over it, frowns.
ELECTRA: Two way?
RATH: Transmits and receives.
ELECTRA: Cheap as shit.
RATH: I paid a lot for these.
ELECTRA: They saw you coming a mile away. If I had known we'd be using
RATH: It's too late now. Okay? We'll have to deal with these.
ELECTRA: He goes back to his drawing.
RATH: This is the bank. This is the hotel. In the morning I will enter the bank.
ELECTRA: He will be hidden somewhere out here, probably somewhere low, in the crowd. He'll stay there until he sees me enter the bank.
RATH: He will be hidden somewhere out here, probably somewhere low, in the crowd. He'll stay there until he sees me enter the bank.
ELECTRA: But he won't shoot you right then?
RATH: No. It would be amateur. A risk. He'll wait for the prime shot, that he knows is coming. Once I'm inside, he'll move to the hotel. He'll go up the back, too much traffic in the front.
RATH: You'll be here. A restaurant. A public place far enough away that he won't notice you, but with a good enough view you'll be able to see him when he moves inside.
ELECTRA: Okay. Then what?
RATH: Then, we wait.
ELECTRA: Aiiee. More waiting? I don't know if I like this plan.
RATH: It will take the entire day, but he will begin to doubt himself. He will begin to believe that he missed me, that somehow I slipped by and am already on a plane to Europe.
RATH: The sun will be low, almost dark, the air cool and the bank will almost be closed. 5:45. 5:50. He will put the rifle down, he will get up and he will walk across the plaza to the bank.
ELECTRA: Why won't he wait until the bank He won't be able to. He'll have to go inside. He'll have to see with his own eyes, whether or not I am there. If the bank closes, he won't know for sure. He'll come. I'm sure. And when he does you'll go into the hotel, go upstairs and take the gun.
RATH: He won't be able to. He'll have to go inside. He'll have to see with his own eyes, whether or not I am there. If the bank closes, he won't know for sure. He'll come. I'm sure. And when he does you'll go into the hotel, go upstairs and take the gun.
ELECTRA: What? What if he brings it with
RATH: He can't. The bank has an expensive security system; metal detectors and X-ray machines.
ELECTRA: That means you won't have a gun.
RATH: That's right.
ELECTRA: And with the mikes, I'll tell you when he leaves the hotel and you'll tell me when he leaves the bank.
RATH: If things go well, I don't have to. You'll already be in a rented car waiting for me.
ELECTRA: You'll have the money. How do I know that you won't
RATH: I'll be walking out of the bank, unarmed. You'll have the gun and I'll drive the car.
ELECTRA: We split the money?
RATH: Five million apiece. You get on your plane, I get on mine.
ELECTRA: Sounds pretty well figured out.
RATH: I've been thinking about it for a long time.
ELECTRA: Except, if he doesn't come out of the hotel.
RATH: Except, if he doesn't come out of the hotel.
ELECTRA: Except, if he doesn't come out of the hotel.
RATH: I told you, he will.
ELECTRA: You can't know for sure, how can you? I mean, you're not him.
RATH: I was.
RATH: Ten years ago, I sat there in that same hotel window, sweat pouring off of me waiting
ELECTRA: For Nicholai?
RATH: You killed him here? In this city, outside that bank?
ELECTRA: You killed him here? In this city, outside that bank?
ELECTRA: What is it? I don't like this at all. What is going on here?
RATH: I don't know. It just happened. I was here ten years ago, I'm here now. That's it.
ELECTRA: I don't believe that.
RATH: It wasn't planned or premeditated. I swear. Things happened beyond my control. I understood; I saw where they were leading and I suppose that it just made sense.
ELECTRA: Ten years ago.
RATH: What happened?
ELECTRA: What happened?
RATH: I waited until I was insane and then I walked into the bank. He was sitting there, very calm, waiting for me.
ELECTRA: What did he want?
RATH: He wanted what I want now; to get out of the business. To disappear to some empty Greek island.
RATH: What did he say?
RATH: He said I couldn't win. That no one wins at this game.
ELECTRA: Was that it?
RATH: Then he offered me one million dollars to walk away, to quit the You didn't take it.
ELECTRA: You didn't take it.
RATH: No. I went back to the hotel. And Ten years later, here you are again.
ELECTRA: Ten years later, here you are again.
RATH: Yes. Here I am again.
STATUE: A chunk of STONE EXPLODES out the head of the statue. Again, the GUN SPITS and another cloud of dust and ROCK BURSTS from the head. His finger is pumping the trigger, until the head cracks and falls. He's laughing, hysterical, looking down the street at the headless statue. He rolls onto his side still laughing. Then, suddenly, he stops, staring up at the stars in the night sky.
ELECTRA: This has been the longest day of my
ELECTRA: Do you have ulcers?
RATH: I think I got one today.
ELECTRA: I think I got one today.
RATH: Five million dollars will buy a lot of Rolaids.
ELECTRA: What do you suppose he's doing now?
RATH: Why did you trade a bishop for a I hate bishops. They're useless. I like knights.
ELECTRA: I hate bishops. They're useless. I like knights.
RATH: They're worth less points.
ELECTRA: There is no point in arguing. As they continue to play, we begin to hear in the distance, the COUPLE in the adjoining suite MAKING very vigorous LOVE. Electra watches Rath to see if he hears them. He shows no sign of it, concentrating on the game.
ELECTRA: Do you hear them?
ELECTRA: He hears it. Not interested.
ELECTRA: Did you think they were newlyweds?
RATH: I didn't notice them.
ELECTRA: When I first saw them I thought they were married.
RATH: How do you know they're not?
ELECTRA: I went into their room this It was no big deal. I saw them leave, I went in.
RATH: It was no big deal. I saw them leave, I went in.
ELECTRA: It was no big deal. I saw them leave, I went in.
RATH: Jesus, if someone had
ELECTRA: Nobody ever sees me.
RATH: Why in the hell would you take that I heard them last night and it made me want to know something about them. I wanted to, so I did.
ELECTRA: I heard them last night and it made me want to know something about them. I wanted to, so I did.
ELECTRA: She is married, but not to him. Another man, much older. She has four kids. The young guy works for her. And I think she likes kinky Thank you.
RATH: Thank you.
ELECTRA: Isn't it interesting though? I mean, look at us, in this room. Or yesterday, when we were walking in the plaza market. I mean, we look like just another couple. But what are we? Doesn't it seem so crazy?
RATH: It's always been that way. The world has always functioned on two I know. It makes me crazy.
ELECTRA: It's always been that way. The world has always functioned on two I know. It makes me crazy.
RATH: It's always been that way. The world has always functioned on two I know. It makes me crazy.
ELECTRA: I know. It makes me crazy.
RATH: I don't know. When I was in college, I was forced to go to a psychiatrist because I was caught drilling holes in my dorm room And you were drilling these So I could watch the girl that lived under me.
ELECTRA: I don't know. When I was in college, I was forced to go to a psychiatrist because I was caught drilling holes in my dorm room And you were drilling these So I could watch the girl that lived under me.
RATH: And you were drilling these So I could watch the girl that lived under me.
ELECTRA: So I could watch the girl that lived under me.
RATH: Apparently this doctor was unable to cure you.
ELECTRA: He told me that my curiosity became unnaturally entangled with my sense of self-preservation.
RATH: Did he explain how this happened?
ELECTRA: He believed it all went back to one night, when as a little girl. I watched my parents have this big fight, really big. I thought my mother was going to kill my father. Then they went into their room and made up. And I watched them make love through the keyhole.
RATH: What are you doing?
ELECTRA: That's a ridiculous move.
RATH: That's a ridiculous move.
ELECTRA: Because, I'll take it.
RATH: Because, I'll take it.
ELECTRA: I'm playing white, remember. You can't tell me which pieces to move. It doesn't work that way.
ELECTRA: Can I ask you something?
RATH: I'm sure you will.
ELECTRA: Am I attractive?
RATH: Are you attracted to me?
ELECTRA: Are you attracted to me?
RATH: Why? I don't know.
ELECTRA: Why? I don't know.
RATH: Why? I don't know.
ELECTRA: Is it a physical thing, or a mental
RATH: A good answer. Electra smiles.
ELECTRA: Is that why you didn't want to talk about women before?
RATH: I didn't want to complicate the Attraction is a complication?
ELECTRA: Attraction is a complication?
RATH: It can be.
ELECTRA: It happened to you before?
RATH: Who was she?
ELECTRA: Who was she?
RATH: Someone like me, like you. A pro.
ELECTRA: What happened to her?
RATH: She was taken.
ELECTRA: Did you
RATH: No. I tried to stop it. I Was she the only one?
ELECTRA: Was she the only one?
RATH: After her, I realized that to survive I had to live without. It's dangerous to let things become Is this becoming complicated?
ELECTRA: Is this becoming complicated?
RATH: I'm not sure that I care anymore.
ELECTRA: Were you attracted to me right away?
RATH: When did it start?
ELECTRA: When did it start?
RATH: When I gave you my gun and you almost shot me.
ELECTRA: When I gave you my gun and you almost shot me.
RATH: When I gave you my gun and you almost shot me.
ELECTRA: Maybe you should see a psychiatrist.
RATH: That doesn't sound normal.
ELECTRA: That doesn't sound normal.
RATH: I'm not normal.
ELECTRA: I know. That's why I'm attracted to you. I mean, you make me nervous. You're intimidating. Maybe it's my curiosity/self-preservation thing, but all I can really think about right now is kissing you.
ELECTRA: I wanted to tell you
ELECTRA: My real name is Anna.
RATH: Her legs wrap up around his hips and he pushes deeper into
ELECTRA: Her legs wrap up around his hips and he pushes deeper into
ELECTRA: Nice to meet you, Martin.
CLOSER: We see one of the pieces is part of the face, the eyes, which seem like the iris-less eyes of a chess king.
CLOSER: We MOVE INTO the blank white of that eye.
ELECTRA: I'm ready.
RATH: Rath is wearing a well-tailored, gray silk suit and dark sunglasses. In his hand is a very large briefcase. He crosses the checkered floor to the teller windows.
TELLER: May I help you?
RATH: Yes. Could you check on a transfer for me?
TELLER: Your name, or account?
RATH: Rath. Robert Rath.
OFFICIAL: Senor Rath, we have received your
RATH: Good. Now I'll need to close this account. I'd like you to ready the
OFFICIAL: You wish to close this account That's correct.
RATH: That's correct.
OFFICIAL: How would you like the funds?
RATH: American currency.
OFFICIAL: This will take some time.
RATH: I have all day.
ELECTRA: He's here.
ELECTRA: He's inside.
RATH: Now, we wait.
BAIN: He pulls his leg free. Outside the window, across the plaza, he sees the bank; a perfect site. Quickly he unzips the bag and lifts out the gun. He grabs a magazine and snaps it into place. He aims down at the bank's bright white stairs. A man is walking down the steps and Bain finds the center of his forehead in the cross-hairs of the scope. Bain makes a gun noise, followed by the sound of a head bursting open. He giggles. Leaning against the wall, in the shadows of the window, the gun in his lap, he waits. Time slows to a crawl. Without taking his eye from the bank, Bain rummages through his bag and finds a pack of cigarettes. He pulls one out with his lips and lights it. Taking a deep drag, he lets the smoke slowly leak out and drift up into the night.
SUN: White hot.
BAIN: What in the fuck are you doing in
BAIN: That's not him. Jesus, Bain, baby, chill the fuck out.
OFFICIAL: Your signature, senor. Everything is ready.
OFFICIAL: Excellent, senor. If you could follow me?
RATH: I'm sorry, but I am waiting for an associate. Can you hold everything for me until he arrives?
OFFICIAL: Of course, senor.
RATH: Thank you.
ELECTRA: Ten million dollars, sitting there. Waiting. this is insane.
BAIN: This is fucking insane.
BAIN: Fucking God dammit!
ELECTRA: Oh my God.
ELECTRA: He's coming.
RATH: Four minutes.
ELECTRA: I waited another four minutes.
RATH: I waited another four minutes.
ELECTRA: Wait until he is on the stairs.
RATH: Wait until he is on the stairs.
ELECTRA: I'm taking off my mike.
RATH: I'm taking off my mike.
ELECTRA: Last night
RATH: Last night
ELECTRA: Last night
RATH: Last night
ELECTRA: Was nice.
RATH: She sees Bain storming up the stairs. She stands, tosses several bills on the table and leaves.
BAIN: How'd you know? Just tell me that. How'd you fucking know?
RATH: I knew the same way in ten years you're going to know.
BAIN: What does that fucking mean?
RATH: It means that I'm going to tell you things, even though I already know that you're not going to listen to a God damned thing I say.
RATH: It's irony. That's what it is. But the real irony is that you won't know it's irony until you're sitting over here.
RATH: When you walked in here and you saw me, sitting here, waiting; the first thing that went through your head was that you were a dead man.
RATH: You're thinking that you've been sold out. That's the only way I could know you were out there. Why would you think this? Because you don't trust your contractor. You don't trust anyone. It's automatic. It's the first and last commandment. It's the only thing that keeps you alive. So, try as I might to tell you the truth, you can't believe me. Do you see the irony of the situation? It's kind of funny, isn't it?
RATH: Listen to me, Bain. Two days ago, you contacted your contractor, who told you that they knew when and where I was going to pick up the transferred money from MicroCell. You don't know how they got the information. It bothered you, but you didn't care. How do I know this? Because ten years ago, I was sitting in that chair, as scared shitless as you are now.
BAIN: I ain't scared of you.
RATH: Yeah you are and you hate it. You hate the fact that your hand is shaking and mine isn't. That you're sweating your balls off and I'm not. You've got fear and hate in your belly like battery acid, all because of me.
BAIN: If you think you can take me, quit fucking bullshitting and try it.
RATH: All right, Bain. Pay attention, because this is where everything
RATH: You're a businessman, right? This is a business deal. Behind that counter, I have over ten million dollars. I'll give you half of it, more money than you'll make in the next ten years if, you walk away.
BAIN: Five million dollars?
RATH: That's right.
BAIN: Shit. That sure is a lot of money.
RATH: Did you see how I did that? Magic wasn't it?
BAIN: You understand what's going on? It makes sense, right?
RATH: You understand what's going on? It makes sense, right?
BAIN: Oh, yeah.
RATH: What I just said, no assassin would say. What I've said, only a mark would say.
BAIN: You think I would be an idiot to pass up five million dollars.
RATH: You would be.
BAIN: You don't know a fucking thing about me. You don't have the slightest fucking clue.
RATH: Why don't you tell me.
BAIN: I'll tell you this. After Cleveland, I thought I was lucky to be alive. But now, here, I just realized that you were the lucky Now I'll tell you something. It wouldn't fucking matter if I offered you one hundred million dollars. You'd still be thinking the same thing, that you're going to take me. And here I am, sitting through this, knowing it's bullshit, looking at you and the only thing going on in my mind, the only thing I can think is that, in just a few minutes I'm going to take you.
RATH: Now I'll tell you something. It wouldn't fucking matter if I offered you one hundred million dollars. You'd still be thinking the same thing, that you're going to take me. And here I am, sitting through this, knowing it's bullshit, looking at you and the only thing going on in my mind, the only thing I can think is that, in just a few minutes I'm going to take you.
BAIN: Yeah, okay! I'm ready! Let's fucking go!
RATH: INT. BURNED HOTEL Electra is frantic.
ELECTRA: God, I can't find it! I can't find it! I can't find the fucking gun!
ELECTRA: It wasn't with his other stuff!
RATH: Electra, get out.
ELECTRA: Oh, God. I see it!
RATH: The Official looks at him strangely, stacking the last of the green paper blocks.
RATH: Electra, what's happening? What are
OFFICIAL: Finido, senor.
BAIN: You're gonna take me? Come on! Come on, motherfucker!
BAIN: Take this! Take this, you fuck!
BAIN: He stands suddenly, perfectly still, gun aimed at the INT. BANK The sun clock reads six o'clock. There is no one left in the bank except for employees and The Official is at Rath's elbow leading him towards the metal gates.
BAIN: INT. BANK The sun clock reads six o'clock. There is no one left in the bank except for employees and The Official is at Rath's elbow leading him towards the metal gates.
OFFICIAL: We are closed, senor. Thank you for banking with us.
BAIN: Make me shit, you sorry ass piece of mark meat! Come on, come on. It's over! I know it! You know it! We know it!
TELESCOPIC SIGHT: we watch Rath step out of the bank, the doors closing behind him.
INSIDE CLOSET: Electra slowly rises, still watching Bain.
BAIN: Lift your head, motherfucker. Look up here.
BAIN: Look up here.
TELESCOPIC SIGHT: The cross-hairs are an "X" on Rath's head.
BAIN: Look up. Look at me. I want to see your face.
BAIN: Electra shoves open the door, leveling the gun As Bain turns.
BAIN: She FIRES. His shoulder explodes, blood spraying the black wall.
RATH: His eyes, his whole body comes to life.
BAIN: Die, bitch!
BAIN: Fuck! God damn bitch! What are you doing? I don't believe this is
BAIN: You're dead! You're fucking dead! I'm going to kill you a hundred fucking times for this!
BAIN: Game over, bitch!
RATH: Rath's scream ECHOES up through the building. Before Bain can target him, Rath is gone; a shadow, a ghost. He scans the hotel's courtyard. The last light from the setting sun slips through the slits, cracks and broken window panes, casting patterns; a surreal dream- like grid resembling a chess board. Electra sees her chance. She leaps to her feet, throwing the gun over the balcony. The two men watch the GUN CLATTER to the floor as she races back to the room.
BAIN: Fuck no!
RATH: Bain reaches the top of the stairs before Electra gets to the end of the hall. Rath sees it all happening.
RATH: Bain snaps into a targeting stance. Electra is flying toward the door, her feet hardly touching the floor
TELESCOPIC SIGHT: When the cross-hairs find her back.
RATH: Time becomes syrup.
RATH: Down! Get down!
TELESCOPIC SIGHT: The scope glides up zeroing the back of Rath's head.
BAIN: Bain squeezes the trigger CLICK the rifle is empty. Bain screams in disbelief. Rolling over, Rath jacks back the slide and sights the balcony but Bain is gone. Electra searches the room for a way out. Keeping the gun trained on the door she steps carefully over to the hole that Bain fell through. Grimacing, Rath struggles to his feet.
RATH: Bain explodes through the wall, charred wood and plaster Electra spins to shoot but the FLOOR suddenly CRACKS OPEN, swallowing her. Limping, lurching up the stairs, Rath hears the CRASH. Jarred by the fall, Electra drags herself away from the open ceiling.
RATH: The gun! He needs the gun! Get rid of it! Throw it!
RATH: Yeah, I know what you're thinking.
RATH: Game over.
THE END: Writers : Larry Wachowski Andy Wachowski
