THE AVENGERS: Screenplay by Don Macpherson
ZOOM!: 5 CAR
5 CAR: speeding like a bullet. Driven at maximum, breakneck speed, 125 mph. A petite open top '65 Lotus Elan, all streamlined curves, full throttle, it nears the phone box, and SCREECHES to a halt. Dust clears, ENGINE NOISE FADES. From the seat, hops
EMMA: How now brown cow . The rain in Spain falls mainly on the plain . The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy From the receiver, an irritated official voice.
PETER: Ready, darling? Peter fixes her name tag: DR. EMMA PEEL; runs a finger down over her breast. She Ready as I'll ever be . Mutual erotic, intellectual attraction. Peter takes her hand and they walk down:
EMMA: Ready as I'll ever be . Mutual erotic, intellectual attraction. Peter takes her hand and they walk down:
VALENTINE: Atmospheric pressure checked, antenna ready. Thermal chamber ready . Compression module set . Temperature control on course between one and one forty . Water turbulence steady .
PETER: Anything else? Valentine smiles, shrugs
VALENTINE: Good luck . Peter . Emma.
EMMA: Thanks, Valentine . Emma gives him a quick peck on the cheek. A shy look from Valentine at Emma. Peter senses
PETER: Just a minute, darling. My brother's a worry wart. I better have a word . Peter takes Valentine over to one side. Emma checks gauges and dials. Behind her a conversation. Peter returns. He takes a ring from his finger
PETER: Something to remember me by. Peter smiles. The remark strikes Emma as curious. But no time to query. She smiles back. He gives her a kiss
PETER: ( checks his watch ) See you in an hour .
EMMA: One sunny day . The countdown ECHOES around them as they separate.
VALENTINE: ( thrilled ) Readings still normal . The assistant smiles oddly. FOCUS ON An insignia tattooed on her neck: "X404." A replicant. They monitor screens. A DULL HUM.
PETER: ( intercom cutting out ) Losing control malfunction in thermal chamber for Christ's Emm !
VALENTINE: Emma, Peter, get out! It's going to explode! FROM Valentine's anguished face TO Emma's face, as
VALENTINE: Emma .
VALENTINE: Get out! Leave him ! Emma!
EMMA: Her leatherclad limbs straddled over his glass coffin. Her HEARTBEAT sounds . She grabs, claws on glass Her fist draws back, blam! blam! blam! three deadly blows, Emma SMASHES the pod cover, it Cracks splinters not breaking obscuring his face inside like a spider's web, as behind her
VALENTINE: Don't wait for him he's not Breathless, blood smeared on glass, Emma's gashed fist bleeds thru torn leather glove twisted mass of flesh and glass GROWLING sound growing as:
PETER: ( faint ) Emma . Emma . As a GROWLING sound grows till BOOM! An EXPLOSION rocks the vault flames burst out sound and vision separate Emma hears explosion as a slow moving tear thru her psyche. A trauma.
STEED: Brenda ?
STEED: Mother. I thought you were burglars.
MOTHER: Brenda and I thought we'd drop in. Mother suits action to the word, drops into his wheelchair.
BRENDA: See how you're getting on .
STEED: Something in the wind? Mother wheels himself from the study. Taps a barometer. It whirls around.
MOTHER: Weather's turning nasty.
STEED: You didn't come to talk about the weather, surely.
MOTHER: Oh yes I did. I want you to meet I expect you'll like her. Brenda coolly files her nails. A flash of jealousy.
STEED: 45 INT. EMMA'S FLAT ( PRIMROSE HILL ) - DAY
MESSENGER: Dr. Peel?
EMMA: Thank you . Emma shuts the door. Unties the bow, opens up Finds an embossed card:
EMMA: ( reads ) 'Please answer the Telephone.' Emma looks: The phone sits there. Just then . RING-RING. Emma goes over, picks up the phone. A recorded message, an upper-class woman's voice:
EMMA: Kippers .?
PORTER: May I help you, madam .
EMMA: Mr. John Steed, please.
PORTER: I'm afraid that's impossible.
EMMA: The Porter points to a notice: "No non-members. No animals. No women."
PORTER: You are female?
EMMA: As you see.
PORTER: Then you can't come in.
EMMA: I have an appointment.
PORTER: No women. Not in Boodles. Not since 1922.
EMMA: Really what happened in 1922? Bored, Emma breezes past, already inside the hall. Old mahogany, portraits of dead politicians, leather chairs. A male enclave. The Porter rushes up to restrain her. Hardly missing a step, Emma lays a gentle hand on his shoulder finds the nerve ends. The Porter winces and
EMMA: Thank you so much. I can find Mr. Steed myself . collapses on the ground in agony. Emma ignores him. Pushes thru double doors, upstairs, statues of naked bronze warriors frown down on her, into
STEED: Doctor Peel, I presume?
EMMA: And you must be Steed. Please don't get up. He doesn't. HISSING STEAM between them as they study.
STEED: I was about to throw in the towel.
EMMA: I had a spot of bother at the door.
STEED: I shouldn't wonder. Not a woman inside Boodles since
EMMA: 1922. Why the kippers?
STEED: Red herring would have been too obvious, don't you think?
EMMA: ( looks around ) So what was all this some sort of test?
STEED: Congratulations, you've penetrated a bastion of male privilege. I guessed you weren't a stickler for Tradition, Whereas you are.
EMMA: Whereas you are.
STEED: Dyed in the wool. But I can admire someone who doesn't play by the Rules are made to be broken.
EMMA: Rules are made to be broken.
STEED: Not by me. Play by the rules, Doctor, or the game is nothing.
EMMA: And just what is the game?
STEED: I say, this is all terribly formal. Must I go an calling you Dr. Peel?
EMMA: ( re: the steamroom ) Under the circumstances, you may call me Mrs. Peel.
STEED: Much better.
EMMA: And now that we've settled the matter of honorifics, will you kindly explain why you wished me to meet you?
STEED: I didn't. Mother did.
EMMA: Steed steps closer, smiling.
STEED: I expect you'll like him. Off Emma's reaction
STEED: Tea time four o'clock. Mustn't be late. A word of warning. Don't take the macaroon. Mother's favorite. Steed swerves down a narrow alleyway, into a secret car park entrance by the riverbank. He pulls up before a sign:
MOTHER: That's better. I much prefer a womb with view, don't you, Mrs. A delicate CLOCK on the mantel CHIMES FOUR. Mother wheels himself forward and hooks onto the kettle.
MOTHER: Shall I be mother? He pours, presiding like a fat spider at the center of a subterranean web, known as The Ministry: a vast bureaucracy in a labyrinth of tunnels. Catches Emma's wandering lock
MOTHER: I expect you're wondering where you are. An atmosphere of a gentleman's club reigns in the subterranean bureau Emma takes her tea .
EMMA: Don't tell me: You're the shadow secret service. You're so hushhush, even the legit secret service knows nothing about it. Am I right? Bodyguard Brenda, a glam leather Moneypenny, wheels a trolley brimming with fancies over to Emma and Steed.
MOTHER: Close. We're so hush-hush, even we know nothing about it. Now let's see, there's coconut cake, date and walnut; I recommend the rum baba .
EMMA: Hmmm .
MOTHER: Looks like rain, Steed.
STEED: . Showers followed by sunny periods.
EMMA: ( looks up from trolley ) We're not here to talk about the weather, surely.
MOTHER: Oh, yes we are.
BRENDA: ( to Emma, cunning ) Emma hesitates; takes a cake. About to take a bite, when Mother switches off lights. A screen drops, covering the water window as the mood changes from coziness to terror an ancient PROJECTOR RATTLES on .
MOTHER: We've had a series of bizarre weather reports. We kept them hush-hush and sent agents into the field for data. Case number one: April 14, 3:35 P.M., Special Agent Simkins investigating mysterious fires in corn circles. A field outside the village of Little Snoring, one of the hottest days of the year. Trapped by a sudden blizzard. Found frozen to death in a giant ice cube like a mammoth in Case two: Pilot Raymond Shaw, May 6, 11:28 A.M. Took off from a deserted airstrip near Stoke Poges, investigating bizarre atmospheric reports. A freak rainstorm downed him. Knocked unconscious by a flying fish, falling from 15,000 feet. Twenty-five inches of rain in eight minutes, over an area the size of a cricket pitch . . Case three: June 2, 5:43 P.M. Defense Chief Major Courtnay. Remains discovered in a turnip field near Ashby de la Zouche. Our boffins recorded a sudden blast of heat. Scorched earth, temperature of 1000 degrees. Spontaneous combustion. Not much of him left . CLICK. The lights go back on. Emma notices - a new arrival
MOTHER: My number two. Special assignments. Let me guess 'Father'?
EMMA: Let me guess 'Father'?
EMMA: Blind . Father smiles.
FATHER: God, you're quick.
MOTHER: Have a look at these, Mrs. Peel He passes 'round a box of evidence related to the screen events: Steed investigates a pair of black shoes and bowler; Emma, a fish. The shoes have agent Simkins' name in them .
STEED: Ah . From Trubshaw's. My A kipper. Or a red herring? What were they investigating?
EMMA: ( unimpressed ) A kipper. Or a red herring? What were they investigating?
FATHER: A series of bizarre shifts in local weather patterns .
STEED: Global warming?
FATHER: Jungle plants in the Arctic? A lush English village transformed overnight into African scrubland? Blizzards in summer?
EMMA: How curious .
MOTHER: Something strange is happening. And whoever knows about it doesn't want us to find out.
FATHER: ( to Steed ) Your mission is simple. Find out how and why these agents died.
EMMA: I'm no spy where do I fit in?
MOTHER: Your research into climate engineering was state-of-the-art. Your experiments could have revolutionized our knowledge of global warming had they succeeded. We need your expertise.
STEED: Perhaps I'd better start calling you doctor again, Mrs. Peel Emma hesitates, unsure for the first time .
EMMA: I'm not sure I'm ready to return to work. I've been out of action for some time. I'll consider your proposal. She gets up, ready to go.
FATHER: One moment, Mrs. Peel. There's another special reason we wanted you to join our happy family; rather curious, actually . Mother hits the lights. He flicks the video into slow-mo. File thru image clarification, identikit sketches.
MOTHER: Eye witness reports. Strangers in the area. One description tallied in all three places. Recognize her? Emma locks. On the screen comes Emma Peel. Steed reacts.
EMMA: Me, isn't it? Emma stares at the screen: incredible. Like a twin sister.
FATHER: Think of it as special assignment, Mrs. Peel. With a twist. You're our chief suspect.
EMMA: You're saying I have no choice.
MOTHER: Father will be your controller. Steed here will show you the ropes.
EMMA: ( very arch ) 55 INT. SECRET SERVICE HQ SHOOTING GALLERY A life-size target of a man with blank face, bowler hat and umbrella, flips up, and BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! Is riddled with holes by Emma, who works at reloading as
STEED: Think she really killed those agents?
MOTHER: She may not know. Theory goes she may be very ill.
STEED: Possibly. Split personality .
MOTHER: Possibly. Split personality .
STEED: Insane . ?
MOTHER: Who knows? If Dr. Darling is right, you should watch out.
STEED: She may try to kill you.
MOTHER: She may try to kill you.
STEED: Perhaps I ought to talk with Dr. 58 INT. SECRET SERVICE HQ PSY OPS ROOM A gallery of portraits of Emma Peel projected on the wall based on Warhol's Jackie ( 1964 ) Poignant, inscrutable, fascinating, iconic blown up, dissected, analyzed. The swirling newspaper dots cover Mother and Steed like bubbles from a light show. As DR. DARLING, head of the Ministry's Psychological Operations ( Psy Ops ) a kind of spy version of Timothy Leary, briefs them. In his thick dark glasses and beard, Darling's obsessive interest in Emma adds a sinister air.
DR. DARLING: One key point: Mrs. Peel is a widow: she's obsessively devoted to the memory of her husband the scientist Peter Peel. You may find her a little . remote. Images of Peter Peel on the wall. Of Emma with him.
DR. DARLING: They were a team. Met at Cambridge. Working on a top secret research mission into weather conditions, code name The Prospero Project, when Peel died. Steed looks meaningfully at Mother.
MOTHER: Something went wrong. System malfunction. Explosion. Mrs. Peel had a narrow escape. Suspected sabotage. Nothing proven. File still open.
STEED: How come you took so much interest in her, Dr. Darling?
DR. DARLING: Her husband was one of ours.
STEED: ( eyes Peel's photo, then Mother ) Peel? Did she know?
MOTHER: Still doesn't. Better safe than sorry. She was in a dangerous game, Steed. High stakes. She may prove to be a risk. If she is, there's only one solution. Termination.
STEED: Anyone particular in mind?
MOTHER: OFF Steed's reaction. CLASHING BLADES OVER .
STEED: You're a lady of hidden talents, Mrs. Peel . Tic-tac .
EMMA: I've no intention of hiding them . Tic-tac .
STEED: Scientist . . marksman . . swordsman . . To what do you attribute your Fast swordplay. Tic-tac-tic-tac-tic. Steed's good, too.
EMMA: My father always wanted a boy.
STEED: Really? I fail to see the connection.
EMMA: I had a feeling you would. Touche! She lunges; her foil tips right into the heart on Steed's chest. BUZZ! Steed removes his mask; holds her foil tip.
STEED: I take your point. Emma takes off her mask.
EMMA: Do you?
STEED: Yes indeed. I need protection.
EMMA: I thought we were on our way.
STEED: Oh, absolutely, but Trubshaw's a man worth meeting. No point setting out half shod.
EMMA: ( dry ) Or half cocked.
STEED: I couldn't agree more. Thank you, Very good, Mr. Steed. WIDEN to reveal:
TRUBSHAW: ( significantly ) Very good, Mr. Steed. WIDEN to reveal:
EMMA: ( gags at the waistcoat ) Steed, we really must be
STEED: ( relishing his shoes ) Ahh. Perfect fit. The luxury of a hand-made shoe. As unique as a face or a fingerprint. Or should I say DNA?
EMMA: You can but I wish you wouldn't .
STEED: Thank you, Trubshaw . A youngish man in black polo neck, Beatle-cut mop, pauting lips, smart suit, druggy high-pitched giggle. BAILEY, a cocky, cool psychopath. He watches Steed and Emma leave . . and saunters after them . CAR ROAR OVER.
STEED: Sorry. Didn't mean to interrupt your flow of oratory . Steed's JAG BACKFIRES again as at the beginning .
EMMA: You know what I mean. This car and you. Nobody walks around like that. Milk?
STEED: Not all Tradition is bad, Mrs. Peel. No thank you. She hands over a cup.
EMMA: But why? What's the point?
STEED: A Gentleman has to have a code. This is part of mine. A uniform. Think of it as my suit of shining And I suppose you're the knight.
EMMA: And I suppose you're the knight.
STEED: The most unpredictable piece on the board. And always ready to protect his queen.
EMMA: That's predictable. When I find a queen in need of protection I'll let you know. Steed looks in the mirror. Behind them, a car. Tailing?
STEED: I'm hoping you will. He puts his foot down. Zoom .
EMMA: Sir August Merryweather . why are we seeing him first?
STEED: As per mother's instructions.
EMMA: Do we always follow Mother's For a man in my position
STEED: For a man in my position
EMMA: Just what is your position, if you don't mind my asking. How did a stuffed shirt like you get into this line of work?
STEED: ( smiles ) They call me in when they've reached a dead end. Freelance. Like yourself.
EMMA: I have no choice. Why should you risk your life?
STEED: After our fencing match, I was rather hoping you would do the risking. More tea?
EMMA: No thanks.
STEED: I meant me. Emma takes in Steed's evasive answers. Sighing, she pours.
STEED: Not so much eccentric. More barking mad. He has a wife called June. And a daughter somewhere Julie.
EMMA: June, July . August?
STEED: The family does seem to be somewhat meteorologically inclined.
EMMA: Any other vices?
STEED: All of a piece, really. A fanatical weatherman. Chairman of BROLLY. British Royal Organisation For Lasting Liquid Years. Thinks British weather has been tampered with by . aliens. Emma takes this in.
EMMA: So . I distract him while you snoop around? How?
STEED: Small talk. Try the weather.
EMMA: Original .
BUTLER: This way, miss .
EMMA: Missus . He opens the double doors, admitting Emma into
EMMA: Sir August . ? Sir August . ?
EMMA: I've come to apply for membership in Brolly
SIR AUGUST: ( shouts above the tempest ) You don't get rain like you used to in England. A good shower that's the ticket. Stiffens resolve, puckers the spirit, quells the namby-pamby in a man. SIR AUGUST steps out of the shower and wind machine. A belted rubber macintosh, flippers, goggles. He starts to disrobe, the NOISE DIES DOWN
EMMA: I so agree. How did you acquire a taste for it?
SIR AUGUST: Out in India. So character-forming for the British. Not the heat. Good Lord, no. The rain, dash it. A good monsoon. Fifteen inches overnight. A whole week of lovely rain. I remember one summer in Jaipur . Sir August removes his goggles, recognizes her.
SIR AUGUST: Have we met?
EMMA: Have we met?
SIR AUGUST: You mean you don't recall?? Before Emma can reply, the door opens.
SIR AUGUST: Ah, Lady June . Emma's attention switches to LADY JUNE, a buxom lady in a sou'wester and galoshes, who wheels in a tray of scones.
LADY JUNE: Dear August. Loves his showers. Like a baby. Scones, Mrs. Peel?
EMMA: Thank you, Lady June . Emma sees Sir August gazing wistfully out of the window, which is rapidly darkening .
SIR AUGUST: Ah, beautiful. Just as he promised.
EMMA: Promised? Who promised?
SIR AUGUST: There, look! Emma looks, sees rain start to pitter-patter on the windows. Emma exchanges looks with June as the rain starts pouring.
SIR AUGUST: Imagine being caught out in a blow like that!
STEED: I say, this is a bit much. Lashed by rain ' Steed carries on to the brow of the hill. He looks over, peers through the mist at A deep purple cloud. Mushrooming towards him. Steed can't escape it. It envelops him. Starts to blink. Cough. Footsteps less sure. Surrounded by thick purple haze Steed stumbles and falls Down a hill. Tumbles to the bottom. He knocks his head on a rock. Steed blinks, shakes his head. Eyes refocus. He sees
STEED: 'The Merry Widow'.? Over the MUSIC, a strange
.STEED: Mrs. Peel. Good of you to drop by. And I see you're wearing your - riding outfit? Emma moves closer. Steed smiles at her. Emma closer and chop! gives a kung-fu jab to the throat, a kick to the balls, a jab to the stomach. As Steed lies on the Manners, Mrs. Peel. Emma takes out a .38 GUN, points at his heart, FIRES
STEED: Manners, Mrs. Peel. Emma takes out a .38 GUN, points at his heart, FIRES
STEED: Ah, Brenda . Mrs. Peel?
EMMA: You should be dead. How do you You were very lucky. Four shots to the heart. I found you after I slipped away from Sir August. Mother brought you here. Not me you should thank.
STEED: ( eyes her ) You were very lucky. Four shots to the heart. I found you after I slipped away from Sir August. Mother brought you here. Not me you should thank.
EMMA: You were very lucky. Four shots to the heart. I found you after I slipped away from Sir August. Mother brought you here. Not me you should thank.
STEED: I wasn't about to.
EMMA: I mean your man Trubshaw. Your bullet-proof waistcoat. I thought you were just overdressed.
STEED: I might say the same.
EMMA: Mother and Dr. Darling have me under observation. They think I tried to kill you.
STEED: Why should they think that?
EMMA: You told them. You said I arrived on a camel, shot you four times. Left you for dead.
STEED: Frankly that's how I remember it.
EMMA: But that's absurd. I may not be over-fond of you, Steed, but it's not my style.
STEED: Perhaps your memory plays tricks, Mrs. Peel.
EMMA: ( conceding ) That's possible. Sir August was convinced he'd met me before. But I'd never met him. Another odd thing. When it rained, he said it was just as someone had promised.
STEED: Did he say who?
EMMA: No. But he must know. Incidentally, my double left you with this. Emma shows Steed the toy snow scene. A winter wonderland snow scene. He looks puzzlingly at it. On its underneath. "The Wonderland Corporation," followed by
STEED: An invitation. To a 'formal picnic'.?
EMMA: Did you say formal? I must dress.
STEED: I must say, you look more your old self
EMMA: You mean my other self .
STEED: Either way . may I ask: why you dress in that fashion?
EMMA: I should have thought that was obvious . I'm in mourning. She moves off. Stay on his poker face.
STEED: I can't wait to see afternoon. He joins her; they survey the building.
EMMA: Where's the picnic? They look up to
EMMA: Another invitation. 38 Marlborough Terrace .
STEED: ( admiringly ) Hm . A Veuve-Cliquot '56 . ( then puzzled ) But he bites the end of his Monte Cristos . ? ( frowning ) Clearly, we're dealing with a Meanwhile, Emma goes into the
STEED: Colonel Crabtree. International Satellite Systems. Formerly of the Ministry.
EMMA: How on earth can you tell? Steed holds up the inside of a battered shoe: the name.
STEED: Elementary, Mrs. Peel. Trubshaw isn't the only shoemaker still practicing his trade .
EMMA: Very good, Steed .
EMMA: What's that? Leaving Steed to ponder the remains, Emma goes into
STEED: What on earth?
EMMA: Any ideas?
STEED: Well, he was a fellow of the Royal Zoological Society .
EMMA: Is that written in his shoe?
STEED: ( smug ) Common knowledge, Mrs. Peel .
EMMA: ( shrugs ) She had this in her mouth. There, Cooing to the cub, Emma tosses to Steed another snowshaker. Inside another address: 84 Cadogan Place.
STEED: Not again. There's got to be another. way to go about this.
NIGHT: Down a sheer wall Emma Peel abseils with rope and crampons. Before gliding through an open French window
STEED: Now, now . 'I can't give you anything but love, baby.'
MAN: No! You can't .
MAN: But I've got rid of her. She's .
EMMA: Major D'Arcy . ?
EMMA: Well, well. If it isn't me . Emma starts towards her double, who hesitates, then turns, leaping out the window . she wears the same black catsuit. The real Emma rushes, follows her "double" Clambers outside to rappel up the line to
STEED: For you, Mrs. Peel.
EMMA: Thanks . I see what you mean about letting me do the risking . Hello? It's Sir August.
EMMA: Sir August.? What now?
STEED: Ask Mother. Sound OVER: RING-RING.
SIR AUGUST: Mrs. Peel ?
SIR AUGUST: No, please! I beg you .
SIR AUGUST: Let it be rain, please let it be
EMMA: Where's Mother?
FATHER: Mobile HQ. In a blue funk. Can't take chances. I'm looking after things while he's hiding out . Father drives like a maniac. She senses their unease.
FATHER: You're probably wondering how I can drive 'blind.' Simple. A new prototype from the boys in X division. Micro-sensors in the system read signals and road information. Converts the info into miles per hour. Ultra-sensitive. Ultra-smart. Father jumps a red light. CARS SCREECH together in a huge pile-up. Not that smart. Steed holds onto his hat.
STEED: We know one thing. That suspect was not Mrs. Peel.
FATHER: So you say .
EMMA: You don't believe him?
FATHER: It's Mother you have to convince. He's very agitated. Wait here. Father SCREECHES to a halt on Holland Park Avenue Steed and Emma get out. Father takes off .
EMMA: Don't bother. Here's a bus . A red London number 22 bus drives up. As it arrives, in a conductor's cap is the bodyguard, Brenda.
STEED: Don't bother. Here's a bus . A red London number 22 bus drives up. As it arrives, in a conductor's cap is the bodyguard, Brenda.
BRENDA: Fares, please,
MOTHER: Welcome to mobile H.Q. Weather's turning quite nasty. Sir August was blown to smithereens. Along with half of Banffshire. The Ministry's He tried to warn us .
EMMA: He tried to warn us .
STEED: We had a lead to Wonderland Weather but we got there too late. Someone tipped them off .
MOTHER: Too late anyway. Today's escapade was only for starters. This is no ordinary weather. It's manmade. A kind of weather bomb.
STEED: Not quite. This is my field.
EMMA: Not quite. This is my field.
STEED: Is there anything that isn't?
EMMA: ( ignores ) The Prospero Project was started by my husband. It was an early attempt to solve the problems of global warming. In theory, climate engineering is entirely feasible. We thought of injecting a chemical cocktail into the atmosphere by laser and satellite. A 'quick fix'.
STEED: Filling in mother nature's blind spots . ?
EMMA: Exactly. There'd been earlier attempts to pump carbon dioxide into deep sea. Propane gas mostly. In small quantities it captures chlorine. Protects the ozone layer. But it proved impractical. Too bulky .
STEED: But if someone miniaturized the That's what we were working on.
EMMA: That's what we were working on.
STEED: Sounds as if someone's hijacked your research.
MOTHER: Would it be possible to use it for military purposes?
EMMA: Directed by laser. Bounced by satellite. Quite possible.
STEED: Where would they aim for? Mother thinks, gets out of his wheelchair; takes a turn about the bus, sits down again. No one pays any attention.
MOTHER: London. The World Council of Ministers meets soon on global defence. If you can control the weather, you control the world.
EMMA: After the cold war .
STEED: The hot and cold war . Sign "Grand Opening Soon." WIDEN to reveal .
BAILEY: New orders. The penultimate phase. Now fully operational . Steed moves away from them, pushes a set of double doors open, arrives inside
BAILEY: We're not yet open for business, I'm afraid.
STEED: Shame. I was recommended. By a Sir August Merryweather? I was looking for something relaxing. Say, a Tuscan hillside in June?
BAILEY: Sir August Merryweather? I was looking for something relaxing. Say, a Tuscan hillside in June?
STEED: Sir August Merryweather? I was looking for something relaxing. Say, a Tuscan hillside in June?
BAILEY: Normally, we'd be eager to Of course. Natural weather delivered to your door on demand. Down your phoneline. For limited periods.
STEED: Of course. Natural weather delivered to your door on demand. Down your phoneline. For limited periods.
BAILEY: Of course. Natural weather delivered to your door on demand. Down your phoneline. For limited periods.
STEED: You don't say. How real does it feel?
BAILEY: As real as you wish. Hot or cold. Humid or dry. Anything you like. Within reason.
STEED: There are limits?
BAILEY: The technology is brand new. Soon it will be more powerful. We anticipate a huge demand. Leave us your number. We'll be in touch.
STEED: No need. I'll call again. Steed raises his bowler. Bailey watches him go.
EMMA: Three agents killed by bad weather.
STEED: . And by you, Mrs. Peel .
EMMA: ( ignores ) Then a mad millionaire. Head of a secret defense establishment. A group of eccentrics obsessed by weather .
STEED: . And by you, Mrs. Peel. Everything points to you. No sisters? No undiscovered twin?
EMMA: Not that I know of. Explanation?
STEED: According to Dr. Darling, you're a psychopathic personality with schizophrenic delusions, suffering from recurring amnesia based on traumatic repression, leading to outbursts of anti-social and violent behavior. Q.E.D. Steed lets it sink in. Emma looks a little hurt.
EMMA: Is that what you think?
STEED: Oh, well . Just my type, Mrs. Peel.
STEED: Do you always drive this fast?
EMMA: Have I trespassed on a male We're being followed. I saw him at Trubshaw's . Steed looks into the mirror, sees a car behind them. Pulling up, trying to catch up. Emma glances in the mirror, and
EMMA: Hold on . Puts foot down. ZOOM. Extra ACCELERATION. Steed's head pinned back to his seat. Emma's hair tossed in the wind.
STEED: 139 EMMA
OLD LADY: Are you alright, young man?
STEED: I think so, thank you so much . A SQUEAL of TIRES as - The following car swerves back, stops and Bailey emerges, gun drawn as Steed and the Old Lady react .
BAILEY: ( relishing ) Reach for the sky, pardner. Steed raises his hands.
OLD LADY: Oh, dear To Steed's surprise, she pulls an Uzi from her basket and BANGBANGBANGBANG ! SPRAYS BULLETS into Bailey, who crumples, gun spinning along the tarmac. Cute and sweetlooking, the Old Lady is unfazed.
OLD LADY: Cocky little bastard. I hope he was a baddy.
STEED: I feel sure of it.
OLD LADY: I'm Alice. Mother said you'd be on your way. Mrs. Peel with you?
STEED: ( looks around ) She was . They start pulling away hay from the haystack .
OLD LADY: You with Mother or Father?
STEED: Both, actually.
OLD LADY: Good. Glad to see they're together at last. They don't get along. Promotion. Top job. Most unfair. Quite a fuss at the Ministry.
STEED: ( not paying attention ) You don't say. ( mumbles ) Like looking for a needle in a .
STEED: What, Lady Disdain? Are you yet You will let me know if you find that queen who's in need of protection, won't you? He pulls her out. She's annoyed.
EMMA: You will let me know if you find that queen who's in need of protection, won't you? He pulls her out. She's annoyed.
STEED: You will let me know if you find that queen who's in need of protection, won't you? He pulls her out. She's annoyed.
EMMA: ( holding it ruefully ) This must be the last straw.
STEED: ( takes one off her back ) Here's the one that broke the camel's back.
EMMA: Someone didn't want us to get to the party.
STEED: I expect we'll have to gatecrash.
OLD LADY: I may be able to help you.
STEED: ( checks postcard ) Wonderland Weather Ltd.
OLD LADY: This way .
OLD LADY: Over here . The Old Lady waves them on. They enter a tunnel into
EMMA: Aha . Yes . It's clear now. A trapezoid shape, dictated by twin diagonal paths and a single curving path. A late Seventeenth Century design, originally for King William of Orange, copied. Ah . Steed sees Emma slip 'round a corner. He pursues her. Glimpses her. Then loses her. Another glimpse. Sees her thru hedges, then seemingly Thru the other side of the hedge. In two places at once.
STEED: . Mrs. Peel? I think I'm seeing double again. Out of sight, Emma rushes on. Around her, the hedges grow taller. She seems to grow smaller. Emma begins to realize things are not what they seem. As she pushes her way thru
EMMA: Steed . !
STEED: Mrs. Peel . ? Steed hears a noise, turns to see Emma walking towards him. She picks the rose from his lapel, slowly coils an arm around his neck. Pulls Steed towards her, closes her eyes kisses him full an the Mrs. Peel . ! Mrs. Peel . The kiss ends. Steed recovers his composure, lips coated with her lipstick. His tongue traces his lips; smarts .
STEED: Mrs. Peel . ! Mrs. Peel . The kiss ends. Steed recovers his composure, lips coated with her lipstick. His tongue traces his lips; smarts .
STEED: Your lipstick . Poison. He goes dizzy. Steed collapses to the ground.
STEED: ( re: rain ) Not again. He rises, looks down, reacts Alice, the Old Lady, lies near him in the maze, her neck snapped. Steed kneels, next to her in the rain
OLD LADY: It's a trap. Tell Mother, beware. Tell Father. She dies in his arms. Wind picks up, too. Steed looks about, frowning with discouragement
EMMA: Quite a collection.
EMMA: Your voice it's so familiar .
EMMA: Peter . ? Instinctively Emma moves towards him. A long pause.
EMMA: I must be dreaming . Emma pulls back. Before she can turn, Peter takes her hand, places it over his heart.
PETER: Listen. Very much alive. Peter touches her hand. Emma looks into his eyes. Intrigued but alarmed, disbelief. Peter raises her hand to his lips.
PETER: Darling, it's me. Emma shudders, battles with herself.
EMMA: Peter . Emma is tempted, yet filled with terror.
EMMA: Impossible . how? Peter smiles disarmingly. As if the answer was obvious.
PETER: For you . all for you . Peter comes over, folds her in his arms. Takes her head between his hands. Emma leans over to him, about to kiss him, both closing their eyes, until Lips parted. Before they kiss, Emma pulls back
PETER: Don't be afraid, darling. She turns, runs to the door. Like a trapped bird. She tries the door locked. Another door locked. A window locked.
PETER: Don't run away. I forgive you, Emma. I know you left me. But I still love you. Do you still have my ring? I need it. Peter grabs hold of Emma. She pulls away. Emma sees his face before her, pleading with her. Seductive yet nightmarish. As if hallucinating, Emma runs away, towards The big window overlooking the gardens. She runs, leaps, and in SLOW MOTION Crashes thru the GLASS, shards and splinters SHATTERING all 'round her, as she
EMMA: She struggles to her feet, comes towards him, upset.
STEED: Oh, no. First time, shame on you. Third time, shame on me. He slugs her and the SCREEN GOES BLACK.
EMMA: Where am I?
STEED: The Winslow Home for Retired Lepidoptorists. I'm so sorry I struck you, Mrs. Peel. Please forgive me. I thought you were someone else .
EMMA: Was I?
STEED: ( no smile ) I expect that's for you to know and me to find out .
EMMA: It was Peter I saw him . Drugged, Emma's eyes drop. FOCUS CHANGES TO
MOTHER: This man did you see him?
STEED: No. Her husband, she says. Alice tried to warn us. A trap. Tell Mother beware. Tell Father That's all.
DR. DARLING: I want you to say the first thing that comes into your head when I say these words. Do you understand . ? Blue .
EMMA: . bottle .
DR. DARLING: Red .
EMMA: . head .
EMMA: Knight .
DR. DARLING: . death .
EMMA: . death .
DR. DARLING: . death . Steed watching, listening .
EMMA: . death . Steed watching, listening .
DR. DARLING: Flower .
EMMA: . power . The exchange speeds up. Unknown to Dr. Darling, Emma picks his keys; unlocks her Nature .
DR. DARLING: Nature .
EMMA: . preserve.
DR. DARLING: Secret .
EMMA: . love.
DR. DARLING: . love .
EMMA: . love .
DR. DARLING: Fear .
EMMA: . love .
DR. DARLING: Peter . As Emma talks, the "Dreamscape" plucks images from her unconscious in trippy psychedelic rush: faces colors patterns flash past.
EMMA: . Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers how many pecks of pickled peppers did Peter Peel ?
EMMA: How long have I been here?
DR. DARLING: Three days. Emma unlocks her straps. Sits Up. Woozy.
EMMA: Do you get paid by the hour? Dr. Darling is shocked, indignant. Emma rips wires from her body. The "Dreamscape" machine winds down. Up in the gallery BAM ! Mother bashes his metal cane on the railings
MOTHER: ( filtered ) You are here under observation, Mrs. Peel. You must answer Dr. Darling's questions Pushes Dr. Darling aside.
EMMA: I resign.
MOTHER: ( filtered ) You need treatment, Mrs. Peel. You can't resign.
EMMA: Watch me. Emma staggers. Mother looks at Steed. Who snaps himself out of staring at the Emma heads for the airlock door marked:
MOTHER: Don't open that, Mrs. Peel! Fat chance . she goes in .
EMMA: ( echoing ) What are you trying to do to me?
MOTHER: ( flailing ) We want to help.!
EMMA: I thought I was a widow. My husband . the only man I ever loved . is dead. For the rest of my life I have to live with The death of Peter Peel was a great loss. To us all .
MOTHER: The death of Peter Peel was a great loss. To us all .
EMMA: To you . ? Mother looks at Emma. He's let the cat out the bag. Steed finds the "OFF" switch. They all tumble to the floor, Mother landing perfectly in his wheelchair, Steed effortlessly catching his hat and umbrella. He moves to Mother
STEED: I think you owe Mrs. Peel an explanation . Steed stares Mother out. Who delivers his revelations.
MOTHER: Peter Peel was a first class agent. A senior operative. 'X' department Special operations. He was engaged in top secret research. Top priority. Government approved.
EMMA: The Institute . the funding .
MOTHER: A cover . for us. I'm sorry. A turning moment for Emma. A life lived on a lie.
EMMA: So all that time. Our work, our research was for you . for this? And the It was no accident.
DARLING: It was no accident.
EMMA: The official investigation .
MOTHER: . was written by me. It was sabotage, Mrs. Peel. Deadly serious, Emma walks over to him.
EMMA: Quite frankly . it could have been you. Silence. Emma looks away, shocked. Steed intervenes
MOTHER: Quite frankly . it could have been you. Silence. Emma looks away, shocked. Steed intervenes
STEED: You're accusing Mrs. Peel of killing her own husband?
MOTHER: Her husband suspected someone very close to the operation. On the day he died, he was setting a test. To prove to himself to us that his wife was beyond suspicion. He had to be certain. He said he was going to give Mrs. Peel something . Emma keeps staring at Mother, fingers her diamond ring.
MOTHER: . I want you to remember. Did Peter give you anything on-that 176 CLOSEUP - EMMA touches her ring.
EMMA: Steed notices Emma touch her ring nervously.
DR. DARLING: He said if it vanished, he'd know it was . you who betrayed him. He took a huge risk. The ultimate So I'm still .
EMMA: So I'm still .
MOTHER: Under suspicion. Everyone died in the explosion, Mrs. Peel. You were the only survivor . Mother waits. Emma turns round. Looks fiercely at him. Mother shifts uneasily as Emma walks past him to the airlock.
MOTHER: This is an official matter, Mrs. Peel. No need to take it personally. Where are you going?
EMMA: To find out who killed my husband.
MOTHER: The doors and walls are monitored, Mrs. Peel. This is a very secure So am I. Emma pushes open the doors. Walks out. Down a corridor. Dr. Darling grabs Mother, as he exits with Steed
EMMA: So am I. Emma pushes open the doors. Walks out. Down a corridor. Dr. Darling grabs Mother, as he exits with Steed
DR. DARLING: She must remain here. She's highly dangerous.
MOTHER: Pity. I was growing fond of Mrs. Peel. Unfortunately
STEED: Guilty until proven innocent?
MOTHER: Mother and Father know best. Mother wheels himself off. Then stops; over his shoulder:
MOTHER: Something quick. Nothing too . ON Steed. CAR ROAR over as
EMMA: You followed me.
STEED: To kill me?
EMMA: To kill me?
STEED: ( fractional pause ) Nothing personal. Emma smiles. Then turns, and Runs! Steed follows Emma through a door to
EMMA: A long way down. Steed swivels. Sees Emma blocking his path. Cool menace. Steed steps away from the edge, Emma circles him.
STEED: Careful. You might fall. Emma steps to the edge. Steed freezes. Emma locks down. Feet resting on the ledge. Rocking to and fro .
EMMA: I could save you the trouble.
STEED: No trouble.
EMMA: Because you always obey orders .
STEED: ( pause ) Except . Steed nears her. Emma pushes herself right to the edge.
EMMA: Yes . ?
STEED: . when I don't. It comes down to one thing, Mrs. Peel. Trust. Steed reaches out for her. Holds out his hand.
EMMA: And do you trust me?
STEED: I could be convinced, if . I knew who poisoned me in the maze. That kiss .
EMMA: It wasn't me; you have my word. Steed snatches her from the edge, holds her in his arms.
STEED: I need proof. Emma thinks. Looks at him. Deadly serious. Their eyes lock. She hesitates, then pecks him on the cheek.
STEED: It was longer. On the lips. Emma hesitates. Then a kiss on the lips. Longer. But not much. Steed grabs her hand, pulls her back.
STEED: Much longer. Approximately . fifteen seconds. Emma harumphs, exasperated. Moves closer to him.
EMMA: . Ready? Steed nods. Emma leans forward. A full kiss. At first reticent . Emma looks at her watch. Counts seconds .
EMMA: . Four . seven . ni-. Then . forgets. Warmer, more relenting. Edging towards passionate. They stay embracing for fifteen seconds .
EMMA: ( aroused ) Mmm . what are you doing?
STEED: Keeping a stiff upper lip?
EMMA: Is that all? The kiss continues couple of seconds longer. Before Emma withdraws. With an effort, she regains her composure. A long silence.
EMMA: So I'm in the clear? Steed savors the kiss. No reply. His smile says it all.
EMMA: But you did suspect me.
STEED: Not for a moment.
EMMA: You're playing games.
STEED: Aren't we all, Mrs. Peel?
EMMA: I thought you played by the rules.
STEED: I thought you didn't.
EMMA: I'm playing to win.
STEED: Winning isn't everything.
EMMA: Please don't tell me it's how you play the game.
STEED: ( smiles; stands aside ) After you Mrs. Peel . Steed motions down the stairs. It's close to the edge.
EMMA: No, after you.
STEED: ( back to square one ) You don't trust me?
EMMA: As far as you trust me. Emma motions. Steed goes down, passes close to the edge, and swivels round nervously. Emma reads his thoughts.
EMMA: When it happens, Steed, you'll be the first to know . With this comforting thought, Steed descends first.
EMMA: Who could that be? A ROLL of THUNDER. Steed looks up: a clear sky. He's puzzled. Suddenly suspicious. As Emma moves to the phone.
STEED: No don't answer it . He pulls her back. Emma looks at him.
STEED: That's it. The phones trigger the explosions RING-RING . Another ROLL of THUNDER. Steed connects the two as an angelic CHOIRBOY walks towards the phone . RING-RING . A LOUDER ROLL of THUNDER. As the Choirboy nears the PHONE, Steed shouts
STEED: Don't don't answer it !
STEED: Get down get down it's going to explode ! Steed and Emma, all the choirboys hit the dirt, as
CHOIRBOY: It's your mother. The vicar and choirboys look on sympathetically, as Steed dusts himself off. Emma and everyone gets up. Steed goes to the phone box, takes the call.
STEED: Mother? How did you find me? His expression changes as he listens. Emma goes to the phone box as Steed rings off. He emerges from the box.
STEED: I told Mother I took care of you.
EMMA: You lied.
STEED: I equivocated. But you're not their big worry at present. It's Dr. Darling: he's disappeared . OFF Emma's reaction to this news
DR. DARLING: We are in the final phase. I shall require you to be especially obedient. There must be no failures.
STEED: Drat. Someone wants to implicate you in this affair, Mrs. Peel. Any idea who?
EMMA: No idea who. No idea why .
STEED: ( thinks ) Teddy bears, cuckoo clocks, toys All children's things .
EMMA: . Or grown-ups, who still like to be children.
STEED: Quite. Any childhood friends? Not to speak of. Peter and I were both loners. There was Steed thinks; sighs.
EMMA: Not to speak of. Peter and I were both loners. There was Steed thinks; sighs.
STEED: Very well. I have a friend who might be of assistance. He's at the Ministry. We'd better be I'm a wanted woman, I know .
EMMA: I'm a wanted woman, I know .
STEED: His name's Jones. 'Invisible' Jones.
EMMA: Why's he called 'Invisible'?
STEED: You'll find out. At a door marked "Information Col. I. Jones." Steed knocks, opens the door for her.
EMMA: Aren't you coming?
STEED: I'll catch you up. Don't worry; he's expecting you. Emma goes in as Steed walks down the corridor.
EMMA: I see.
STEED: I say, Trubshaw, Steed here . Barometer's falling fast. Mrs. Peel and I find ourselves in need of foul weather gear. Yes, I'd say gentlemen's snuff for starters. And then
EMMA: Peter's brother? But
EMMA: I know all this.
EMMA: Surveillance? By whom?
EMMA: Who's now vanished.
EMMA: Are you suggesting that Dr. Darling and Valentine were somehow in this together? But that's absurd. Steed enters behind them on the run
STEED: We must hurry, Mrs. Peel .
EMMA: Hurry? What for? I'm just You didn't tell her?
STEED: You didn't tell her?
EMMA: Getting to what?
EMMA: I fail to see
STEED: There's a reception this evening. Colonel Jones thinks it advisable we attend.
EMMA: Have we been invited?
EMMA: ( surveys her male outfit ) Well, I can't possibly go like this.
STEED: I had a feeling. That's why we're in a hurry . Steed proffers an arm to Emma.
STEED: May I have the honor, Mrs. Peel? She decides, takes his arm.
EMMA: You may, Mr. Steed. The A-team is born. Steed and Emma tip their hats to Jones.
MOTHER: Inside that hall are some of the Most powerful figures in the world. Tight security. Our only option.
FATHER: I'll see to it personally. Brenda glances over at Father's imperturbable face. As
STEED: What's that you're wearing?
EMMA: It's called Black Leather.
STEED: Intoxicating. Here, have one of He fumbles with a bulging jacket pocket
EMMA: What is it?
STEED: Limpet bomb. Small, very compact. From Trubshaw's.
EMMA: ( hocks it on belt ) When all this is over, we simply must get you out of that suit.
STEED: You first.
EMMA: Shall we? She leads the way through marble halls, arched galleries, red velvet carpets, glittering chandeliers. From the hall, a SPEECH ECHOES:
EMMA: Trubshaw again? What now?
STEED: ( off Emma's lock ) I must insist you try some. Steed takes some; Emma follows his example. Weird. Does it make you high? They walk on, open doors to
STEED: They're playing your song, Mrs. 'The Merry Widow?' I might have known. Where's the reception? They move cautiously forward as
EMMA: ( annoyed ) 'The Merry Widow?' I might have known. Where's the reception? They move cautiously forward as
STEED: Oh, hello .
FATHER: We want Mrs. Peel.
STEED: Dead, I'm afraid. Emma in hiding, listens as
FATHER: I shall summon security. She turns, almost walks into the door as she slips away. Emma returns as the ALARM is raised
STEED: Bad news. Father's looking for you. Where are those bloody ministers?
EMMA: Have a look at this. She leads him to the window: sure enough heavy snow. Steed reacts, eyes wide.
STEED: It's almost May, for heaven sake.
EMMA: Gentlemen, ladies. Forgive the breach of protocol. An emergency From the hallway BOOM ! The door bursts open, Emma is blown over by the blast as the purple cloud races inside.
STEED: Quick it'll protect you Emma inhales. Now immune to the gas, Steed and Emma hear CRASH ! They see through thick cloud -a mysterious man in a white lab coat, wearing a gas mask, leading a group of butlers, all in gas masks heads like black flies in formation round the ministers, helpless on the floor. A kidnapping The man and butlers haul away several ministers, and Escape from the rear doors. The butlers form a guard to protect the man. Steed and Emma run after them. More butlers pursue.
STEED: After him, Mrs. Peel! A whole posse of butlers then advances. Steed faces them.
STEED: Go ! Emma hesitates. Then turns, heads for an ornate dual shaft elevator. She bangs the button, gets inside, doors shut, as the BULLETS from MACHINE-GUNNING gas masked butlers strike the brass door as Steed whips his rapier from his umbrella and duels with the butlers. To give Emma time, he uses every trick and prop at his disposal, plus, brute force to Kick, chop, punch, and impale them into submission, as
MAN: Goodbye, Mrs. Peel!
EMMA: ( shouts, re: the gas mask ) Anyone ever tell you you look like a housefly? Emma grabs his epauletted shoulder, yanks him up, flicks him out The Butler is jerked out flies into the open air. Emma watches him fall .
EMMA: Anyone else need a lift? The white-coated Man moves forward, but Emma is out, slamming the door, still clinging .
MAN: ( to Pilot; intercom ) Can't you throw her off? The Pilot nods, works controls, the chopper dips as Blam ! a kinky leather boot crashes Into the Pilot's face as Emma kicks in the GLASS from the front of the chopper, SMASHES so the Pilots can't see a sudden rush of cold air The INSTRUMENT PANELS WHIRR round as the Pilots struggle for control
EMMA: This time the shoe's on the other foot. You said a hand-made shoe was as good as a photo-fit or D.N.A.? Well, all we have to do is find the shoe that fits .
TRUBSHAW: It should be easy. A Trubshaw client has his shoes delivered personally. The Ministry should be able to confirm our delivery.
STEED: I'll be back .
EMMA: Where are you going?
STEED: Laying in supplies, Mrs. Peel weather may get very nasty and I've no umbrella .
EMMA: You needn't bother. I can't drag you further into this. After all, I am still the chief suspect.
STEED: No bother. Mother and Father think I've joined you. I might as well.
EMMA: ( comes back ) Oh, and by the way, I think it's about time you got rid of that chip on your If you'd been through what I have, you wouldn't Steed reaches and pulls off the micro-bug from her shoulder.
STEED: ( comes back ) Oh, and by the way, I think it's about time you got rid of that chip on your If you'd been through what I have, you wouldn't Steed reaches and pulls off the micro-bug from her shoulder.
EMMA: If you'd been through what I have, you wouldn't Steed reaches and pulls off the micro-bug from her shoulder.
STEED: A microtag. One of Mother's little toys. There you are. Free at last. He tips his bowler off her surprised reaction.
EMMA: Prince Charming, I presume. Your name is .
EMMA: Oh my God .
STEED: Where's Mrs. Peel?
TRUBSHAW: She just left, sir. In a hurry.
STEED: She said you'd understand.
TRUBSHAW: She said you'd understand.
EMMA: . and now?
EMMA: Let me guess: Wonderland Weather.
EMMA: I shall need a small plane.
EMMA: I'm going to find out who killed my husband. Will you take these documents to Steed?
EMMA: Tell him I said . goodbye.
BRENDA: Steed for you. Mother grabs the phone, furious.
MOTHER: Where's Mrs. Peel? He signals frantically for Father to trace the call, but being blind, Father just sits I was hoping you could tell me.
MOTHER: You're getting yourself into terrible trouble, my son. Weather's turning very nasty and so am I.
MOTHER: ( grabs mirror; searches his face ) ( filtered ) In your operation.
MOTHER: I'm warning you for the last time, Steed: whoever's behind all this, looks like Mrs. Peel, walks like Mrs. Peel and kills like Mrs. Peel. CLICK. The line goes dead.
MOTHER: ( to Father ) Find Mrs. Peel. Brenda smiles at the thought. Father rises, grim.
EMMA: This isn't a game.
EMMA: Rules are made to be broken.
EMMA: Then who wins?
VOICE: You and I. Together. But first you must confront your greatest enemy. Who could that be, Mrs. Peel? The answer is obvious . Suddenly lights! Emma is in a hall of mirrors.
FATHER: ( filtered ) Emma in Wonderland. Welcome, Mrs. Peel. ( filtered ) We've been expecting you. We hope you'll enjoy your stay with us. Decontamination is almost complete.
EMMA: Decontamination ?
FATHER: And you've a new wardrobe. He does want you to look attractive. He tells me you're very beautiful. Emma pounds the glass in frustration.
FATHER: Relax, Mrs. Peel. We're hundreds of feet below ground. The Ministry made it impregnable. No one can save you.
DR. DARLING: Emma, my dear. How lovely you He steps out of the rest of his costume .
EMMA: Would that I could say the Same.
DR. DARLING: Ah, but you haven't see the real me. Watch closely . He pulls at his face, which bubbles and collapses as he walks towards her Emma's horrified expression, eyes widening as Dr. Darling turns into . Peter!
EMMA: Peter .
PETER: Darling Emma
EMMA: It was you . all the time?
PETER: Not really. Not quite. I'm afraid you still don't see . Again he claws at his face, pulling, twisting . Emma winces at the sight, her eyes popping out of her head. It's Valentine!
OLD TEACHER: This is where he used to spend his days. We have an old photograph somewhere . He's flipping through yearbooks, then shows Steed
TEACHER: Absolute wizard with makeup. His favorite roll from Shakespeare. Prospero .
STEED: 'The Prospero Project.'
TEACHER: . From The Tempest. A banished duke, ousted by his brother, marooned on a magic island. Who controlled the weather.
STEED: 'O Brave New World that hath such people in it.'
EMMA: Darling Emma yes, we: the true genius behind the Prospero Project . He walks around the dinner table as he talks .
VALENTINE: Darling Emma yes, we: the true genius behind the Prospero Project . He walks around the dinner table as he talks .
EMMA: But you died in the explosion .
VALENTINE: A slight miscalculation my face was burned beyond recognition. Fortunately my research into plastics came in handy .
EMMA: ( stunned ) Dr. Darling, Peter . all you .
VALENTINE: An unholy trinity .
EMMA: ( stands ) You killed my husband.
VALENTINE: For starters. Of course I had to kill the Teddy Bears, as well .
EMMA: Too many cooks
VALENTINE: Spoil the majority shareholders. In Wonderland Weather. I planned everything, even the Ministry recruiting you .
EMMA: But I found you. All the clues led me here .
VALENTINE: Of course. I planned that, too.
EMMA: But why?
VALENTINE: You disappoint me, Emma. Can't you guess? For you. It was all for you .
EMMA: ( cold ) 'Our revels now are ended.'
VALENTINE: Oh, no, Emma. They've only just begun .
STEED: I said it's not goodbye yet. Listen, I'm going to need some help. In a hurry .
VALENTINE: ( indicates supper ) Think of this as your second wedding feast .
EMMA: I'm already married .
VALENTINE: Come, come, you're a widow a most attractive widow. Now I think of it, we'll need a bridesmaid. Here. He pushes a button. Bad Emma enters. Tattooed Z424. Unmistakably hostile.
VALENTINE: My latest model. A compound of plastics and sensor chips. A big improvement on the old X404s. The poor thing is quite fond of me. Emma, say hello to Emma. BAD EMMA HISSES, a strange mix of STATIC and FEEDBACK.
VALENTINE: You know, I believe she's actually Valentine, listen to me .
EMMA: Valentine, listen to me .
VALENTINE: Right, bridesmaid. Now what have I left out? Oh, yes, I know: the ring.
EMMA: ( covers her hand ) He stands very near her she's terrified then:
VALENTINE: How silly of me let me make you comfortable first . As he advances, ZOOM IN EXTREME CLOSEUP Emma's eye
ACTION: as Valentine descends spiral steps to join it. Valentine opens the coffin to reveal Emma strapped within.
VALENTINE: That's better. I say, isn't this where you came in? It's impenetrable, by the way .
EMMA: You're mad.
VALENTINE: Entirely. On the other hand Mad people get things done. Let me show you
FATHER: How did you guess?
STEED: How did you guess?
FATHER: You reek of Mrs. Peel's Black Leather .
STEED: It was you who gave Valentine Peel his security clearance . you're the mole who betrayed the Ministry.
FATHER: Mother betrayed me. She was going to replace me with a younger Father. Errand boy that's all I was. 'Find Steed.'
STEED: Well, you found me. Have a sniff of this, why don't you? Careful, the scent can be overpowering . Holding Father securely, Steed forces her nose into his rose boutonniere, squeezes the rubber tube, sprays a Mist. Father passes out. Steed rises, locks around. A grille and removes it, climbs in and replaces it before the guards return. He turns 308 INT. DUCTS - CONTINUOUS ACTION crawls forward through a mass of wires and plumbing until he hears a VOICE VALENTINE'S. Steed reaches another grille, through which he can see
VALENTINE: People expect weather to be free. They're used to it. I call that a denial of freedom. No freedom of choice. An abuse of human rights. They buy water, electricity, gas. Why shouldn't they be able to buy their own weather if they want to? If they have a little incentive . Emma reacts also Steed ( unseen ) behind her.
EMMA: Such as?
VALENTINE: Destruction of their local weather systems. I can zap a thousand Chernobyls into the air.
EMMA: The result would be .
VALENTINE: Chaos. Transport paralysis. Crop failure. Economic disaster. Frostbite or sunburn . on a massive scale. You've seen a few samples.
EMMA: Then what's stopping you?
VALENTINE: One very small thing. A diamond 'cyclone' chip. A thousand times more information on a fraction of the size. If I possess that, my powers would be unlimited. My dear half-brother was developing it. But he suspected sabotage. He gave the chip to . you, 'Mrs.' Peel. I want you. But also your ring. Valentine takes her by the hand. Kisses
VALENTINE: The missing piece of the jigsaw. I tried to get you to give it to me as Peter; I tried to steal it from you as Dr. Darling. As myself I'll be a bit less subtle. With this ring my plan will be How Wagnerian . Do you mean to say you've waited all these years because you couldn't create a chip on your own? That would have amused Peter.
EMMA: How Wagnerian . Do you mean to say you've waited all these years because you couldn't create a chip on your own? That would have amused Peter.
VALENTINE: Speaking of Peter, there's more good news: You won't even have to change your last name. You'll always be Mrs. Peel.
EMMA: What are my choices?
VALENTINE: I'll never marry you. Valentine is philosophical. He spins the sarcophagus on an axis, lying it flat Emma lying in her coffin as he looks down at her
EMMA: I'll never marry you. Valentine is philosophical. He spins the sarcophagus on an axis, lying it flat Emma lying in her coffin as he looks down at her
VALENTINE: One out of two isn't bad. I'll keep you alive, darling Emma. In a year or five, you may change your mind. If you're still in it. Valentine presses a button. From the ceiling a surgical laser. Moves down to within inches of her face.
VALENTINE: This little toy gave me back my face. It can replace yours. What do you think? Medusa? Madame Defarge? Maggie He marks an imaginary line round Emma's face. An ALARM BELL RINGS. Emma reacts.
VALENTINE: Ah. That will be Steed. He followed you. Please excuse me. I have work to do. My most spectacular performance. A ballet of clouds. It was made for you. I want to give you a heart, Emma. I want all of London to see it. And now with this . They will. And for an encore: the biggest cyclone in history will wipe the City from the face of the earth. Shape of things to come, my darling. He stuffs a gag into Emma's mouth and closes the coffin on her muffled protests. Immediately, Steed tries to force his way through the grille. No such luck.
STEED: Blast. What to do? Mrs. Peel! He doesn't dare say her name too loud and there's no telling if she could hear him in that thing, anyway. He turns around in the tunnel heads the other way.
STEED: The things I do for England . Pitch dark, then Emma's coffin is opened and we see Bad Emma, looking down. Bad Emma stares at her human double Emma: who looks imploringly at her to undo the gag. Bad Emma removes it, she Runs a finger down Emma's body, inside a hole torn in the leather warm human flesh. Blood. Her flesh. Her blood. Fascinated.
EMMA: You must let me go . Bad Emma listens. Gently lays her head on Emma's breast, listens to the HEARTBEAT. Ba-boom. Ba-boom .
EMMA: Don't you understand? If he has me, he'll have no use for you . he'll destroy you . The words jolt Bad Emma back, remembering her mission. She goes to the laser, aims it at Emma's face!
EMMA: Bad Emma hesitates, looks strangely human as
STEED: Oh, dear. No escape. He takes off his bowler deftly removes a strip from its brim, aims it at the guards, and Hurls it .
STEED: Someone's going to pay for this. Stepping over the nearest body, Steed moves on his way, as
VALENTINE: Start the countdown. Action stations. Five minutes . The countdown starts, red digitals going backwards Colorized computer screens map out hostile weather fronts. A COMPUTERIZED VOICE STARTS to COUNT. The CLOCK TICKS. Father enters behind him.
FATHER: Congratulations. The clouds are on course .
VALENTINE: To explode. London will be ashes.
FATHER: Not yet! They haven't heard our terms . ! Father tries to hit the switch. Valentine yanks her off.
VALENTINE: Are you insane? Stop the program and you activate the auto-destruct!
FATHER: But all those people ! Valentine strikes her hard
VALENTINE: My cloud ballet! My cyclone! Father slides to the floor. Valentine ignores her. Concentrates on the control panel red lights, as
MOTHER: Dense cloud formation moving south- west. On course for the center of the city. A fog floating in from the river. The prediction is . unstable chemical reaction. Enforce the curfew . Emergency stand by . !
VALENTINE: My dear. I wouldn't want you to miss the grand finale . Emma opens her eyes. Valentine looks down at her, until a tell-tale sign: Z424. Bad Emma is unmistakable. He strikes her yanks her out of the coffin.
VALENTINE: Find her. Kill her . He races back upstairs as .
ACTION: Emma makes her way through the labyrinthine superstructure of the place, crawling high on a girder over some BURBLING LIQUID below. She hears NOISE IN the DISTANCE. Suddenly
VALENTINE: John Steed.
STEED: Valentine Peel. I see you've gone back to using your original face.
VALENTINE: The last one you'll ever see.
STEED: Perish the thought. Valentine fulls forth a rapier from the wall.
VALENTINE: Did they tell you at Eton that I was fencing champion, too? Steed unsheathes his umbrella, revealing ditto.
STEED: They said you were a very naughty The fight is on as the numbers grow smaller!
VALENTINE: You're better than I expected.
STEED: I was at Harrow .
VALENTINE: But did they teach you this? Valentine whacks the blade off Steed's umbrella handle. Laughs. A diminished phallic symbol. Steed, dumbfounded. Valentine advances towards Steed Who points the umbrella at him.
STEED: Bang-bang . you're dead.
VALENTINE: You wish. He moves to close in, when .
STEED: One shot for emergencies.
VALENTINE: ( clutches wound ) That's not playing by the rules.
STEED: ( echoes Emma! ) Rules are made to be broken.
VALENTINE: ( pulls his own gun ) If you say so.
STEED: I do. He FIRES again. To the heart. Valentine spins to the floor.
VALENTINE: You said . one shot.
STEED: Did I? My mistake. Steed turns to the console, tries to figure out how to stop the countdown, when behind the hatch opens again, revealing Emma. Valentine pulls her up, grabs her as hostage
VALENTINE: I wouldn't do that, if I were you. Steed turns.
STEED: Mrs. Peel ! Valentine has Emma, a knife to her throat, stands over the hatch.
VALENTINE: Bullet-proof waistcoats just the thing. I get mine from Trubshaw's. We'll be off now, won't we, darling? We wouldn't want to miss the fireworks. Figure it out if you can, Steed .
STEED: You must be joking .
VALENTINE: Fool . In his hesitation, Emma suddenly makes her move. A struggle Emma takes a bad fall down a landing below. Ugly THUD. Dead.
STEED: That will do. He's materialized across the girder from Valentine. Who pulls his revolver.
VALENTINE: Aren't you forgetting about You are, and it's behind you.
STEED: You are, and it's behind you.
VALENTINE: Come, come. You don't really expect me to fall for Bad Emma's arms go 'round Valentine in a lethal embrace.
VALENTINE: Let go, you . idiot . Uh uh. She holds him in a vice-like grip. Hugging Valentine.
STEED: I think she really likes you . Where's Mrs. Peel?
VALENTINE: Ugh . As the life is squeezed out of him, Bad Emma finally smiles. Cradled together, she chokes Valentine, who gasps for breath, as One last desperate move on his part and Bad Emma tumbles backwards, Valentine locked in her arms in a dying embrace. They fall into the mists and liquid below. Steed almost falls himself as he grabs a beam for support. Looks down, sees .
STEED: He has said her name. He scrambles down to her body. Emma lying sprawled out on the ground. Steed picks up her limp body in his arms like "Sleeping Beauty." His eyes fill with tears. He lays her down.
STEED: Emma . He produces Peter's ring.
EMMA: Steed looks back at her surprise, delight.
STEED: Mrs. Peel?
EMMA: What kept you?
STEED: The plot. Hello, we must be going .
EMMA: Emma scrambles in and Steed leaps on top of her, bringing down the lid as .
STEED: 'The owl and the pussycat went to sea -'
EMMA: '. in a beautiful pea green boat.'
STEED: A fine night, Mrs. Peel .
EMMA: Still a bit chilly .
STEED: English weather. You know, after all we've been through, I should say we deserve a long holiday .
EMMA: Have you any place in mind?
STEED: As a matter of fact I have . The coffin drifts downstream in the moonlight.
EMMA: I don't recall Siberia being this warm, Steed.
STEED: It's the latest thing, Mrs. Peel.
EMMA: Our little paradise just made for two?
STEED: ( looks; frowns ) Not quite. On cue from the water, Mother emerges, snorkeling in his wheelchair contraption with Brenda. He waves to
STEED: Our chaperon.
EMMA: Pity your mother came, too . Steed seems peeved that his chance to be alone with EMMA is spoiled. Trubshaw pours glasses of champagne.
STEED: Still a little warm, Trubshaw. Is this the '28? A little more ice, I think . Trubshaw trots off dutifully. A large ice bucket appears. Mother moves in. Absorbed by Emma, now his new protegee.
MOTHER: About your next assignment, Mrs. Peel .
EMMA: Next assignment? Steed gives his champagne to the Siberian peasant. He presses a switch an umbrella shoots up between them, opens up, twirls. PULL BACK to reveal the strip of beach, like a tiny bubble of tropical weather. Against a Siberian b.g. of snow. As we WIDEN we REVEAL a giant glass bubble, Ah . sun tan lotion. Any shops Must be. Trubshaw's busy. I'll send Mother . PULL BACK to reveal no shop for miles around.
THE END: Writers : Don Macpherson
