ANNA: So, there you are. I've been upstairs looking all over for you.
FATHER: Oh, I thought you were already on the high is about to take the usual sarcastic turn, she immediately checks herself.
ANNA: No, not yet, Dad.
FATHER: Isn't it fashionable any more to put on a sailor's cap with the name of the yacht?
ANNA: No, Dad, it isn't.
FATHER: And how long will you be away?
ANNA: Four or five days.
FATHER: ( resignedly ) Oh, very well. I'll just spend the weekend alone by myself and take a little rest. I should be used to it by now.
ANNA: Used to what?
FATHER: To the fact of my retirement, not only as a diplomat but also as a father.
ANNA: ( protestingly and with a But how could you say such a thing?
FATHER: Because it's true. After thirty years not having ever spoken the truth to anyone, I should at least allow myself to do so with my own daughter.
ANNA: And have you any other truths to tell me?
FATHER: You already know what they are.
ANNA: You mean Sandro, don't you? Well, I beg of you, please, spare me that. Goodbye, Dad.
FATHER: That type will never marry you, my child. Anna has a difficult time restraining herself but manages somehow to keep calm as she answers.
ANNA: Up until now, Dad, I've been the one who hasn't wanted to marry him.
FATHER: It's the same thing. Goodbye, dear.
CLAUDIA: Have you been waiting long? You'll have to excuse me.
ANNA: Please hurry, Alvaro. We're late.
CLAUDIA: I'll wait for you here.
CLAUDIA: But where are you going?
ANNA: I'm thirsty.
CLAUDIA: If I had a man waiting for me for half an hour and whom I hadn't seen for a month .
ANNA: You know, I could just as well go without seeing him today.
CLAUDIA: What! After giving us such a run around. Claudia stops, smiles, and jokingly tries to laugh it off.
CLAUDIA: I see. so it's farewell to the yacht.and farewell to the cruise.
ANNA: You know, it's terrible to be far away from one another. Really, it's difficult to keep an affair going when one is here and the other is somewhere else. But, at the same time.it's comforting. Because it gives you a chance to consider what you want and how you want it. but when he's right there before you all the time. well, he's right there. Oh, let's go back..
SANDRO: I'll be right down.
SANDRO: Would you like to see my profile?
SANDRO: Well, what is it?
SANDRO: But your friend is waiting downstairs.
ANNA: She'll wait.
SANDRO: I have a feeling that you're not used to being That seems to apply to you also.
CLAUDIA: ( glancing first at Sandro That seems to apply to you also.
SANDRO: Don't be so humble.
CLAUDIA: How should I be . arrogant?
SANDRO: But of course. arrogant, haughty. Hasn't Anna ever told you?
CLAUDIA: It was lovelier before.
SANDRO: Like this?
CLAUDIA: It's all my fault!
OLD MAN: And who do you think made that hole over there?
CLAUDIA: There's nothing much to laugh at.
SANDRO: And that's what I say, too. We could have all been killed.
ANNA: I'm sorry . but I can't help laughing.
GIULIA: It's as smooth and slick as oil.
CORRADO: I detest comparisons made with oil.
CLAUDIA: Did you sleep well?
ANNA: Yes, fairly well. But I went to bed last night planning to do some thinking about a number of things . instead, I fell asleep.
CLAUDIA: I didn't know one could sleep so well on a yacht. It lulls you .
ANNA: It would be better for you to get some sun. Sandro closes the magazine and throws it overboard. The pages come apart in the water. Some of them are quickly swept under by the waves, while others float and slowly drift away: white specks upon which a few sea gulls converge emitting their guttural cries. As Sandro stretches himself out in the sun, Anna looks upon him with tenderness. She is about to embrace him but stops midway, and then finally changes her mind. Instead, she proceeds to stare at him with a profoundly troubled expression. Then, momentarily dismissing her anxiety, she cuddles up close to him in an effort to provoke his affection. Sandro responds, but only with a fleeting kiss. Seeing them together like this, Claudia gets up and moves away to the far side of the prow. Sandro and Anna remain as they are until they are suddenly enveloped by a dark shadow. Sandro opens his eyes and sits up. Anna does the same. The rocky island is now quite close, almost directly upon them. It is larger than it previously appeared and casts a long, dark shadow over the yacht. The water beneath the overhanging cliffs is extremely clear and almost motionless. Sandro rises to his feet and shouts out to everybody aboard.
SANDRO: Shall we go for a swim?
CLAUDIA: Oh, no. please. not here. It looks too into view. It is smaller, brighter, and less foreboding. Corrado gets up and comes over to the prow to join Sandro, Anna and Claudia. He is immediately followed by Giulia, who peers intently at the landscape.
GIULIA: At one time the Aeolian isles were all You must know your third grade geography book inside out.
CORRADO: You must know your third grade geography book inside out.
CLAUDIA: What is that one over there called?
CORRADO: That must be Basiluzzo.
CLAUDIA: Sounds like the name of a fish merluzzo, Now that one is Lisca Bianca.
CORRADO: Now that one is Lisca Bianca.
ANNA: Oh, my goodness. All that yapping just for a little swim.
SANDRO: helm slows the boat even more so as to keep it within Anna's range. Raimondo, meanwhile, has gotten his skin-diving equipment ready; around his waist he is tightening a belt to which a long knife is attached. The yacht continues to slow down. Sandro now dives into the water and starts swimming towards Anna. Claudia and Giulia are removing their clothes and they too get ready to go into the water. But Claudia is afraid to dive in while the boat is still in motion, so she turns to the sailor and shouts:
CLAUDIA: Stop . stop the boat!
GIULIA: How's the water?
SANDRO: Let's see you dive from the top of those rocks, Giulia. That would be really sensational. Come on, Giulia . your life is much too What has everybody got against me this morning?
GIULIA: What has everybody got against me this morning?
PATRIZIA: Patrizia emerges wrapped in a filmy nightgown. She is a woman of great elegance, somewhere in her thirties.
PATRIZIA: Why have we stopped?
RAIMONDO: ( kissing her hand ) Lady Patrizia!
CORRADO: Aren't you going in for a swim, Patrizia?
PATRIZIA: What makes you think I would even dream of such a thing? Raimondo, why don't you go in for a all rigged out in his diving equipment, complete with mask, spear-gun, etc.
PATRIZIA: Raimondo. Do you enjoy fishing underwater?
RAIMONDO: I detest it. But, after all, what can you do. It's the latest.and I try my best to adapt Who ever said that man was originally a creature of the sea!
RAIMONDO: Who ever said that man was originally a creature of the sea!
PATRIZIA: I have never understood the islands. With all that water around them, poor things .
ANNA: When do you have to go back?
SANDRO: I don't know. It depends on Ettore. He's now in the process of negotiating for a contract here in Sicily.
ANNA: Then how come you're not with him?
SANDRO: What a question. Because I want to be with you, naturally. I hope he doesn't close the deal so he'll leave me alone at least for a few days. Isn't this water wonderful!
ANNA: I'd like to find a place where I can get some peace and rest, maybe around here somewhere. I'd like to try.
SANDRO: What could be more restful than this?. Excuse me, what is it that you want to try?
GIULIA: ( referring to Anna ) Where is she going?
SANDRO: Ask her.
SAILOR: I've always worked on pleasure boats. even though it's more tiring.
CORRADO: Because the owners never seem to have any fixed hours. For example, last night we kept right on sailing. We didn't even have a chance to get some sleep. Still, I like it better.
SAILOR: Because the owners never seem to have any fixed hours. For example, last night we kept right on sailing. We didn't even have a chance to get some sleep. Still, I like it better.
CORRADO: I'm going ashore to take a look around the island. There are some ruins up there.
SANDRO: There too.
CORRADO: Well, we're still in Italy, you know!
SANDRO: What kind of a fish is that?
RAIMONDO: It's a cernia.
SANDRO: My God, it's enormous.
ANNA: A shark!. A shark!
SAILOR: Don't move, lady. Stay where you are. Stop! Everybody keep still.
ANNA: Stay away!
SANDRO: yacht, where Claudia and Giulia are already climbing aboard. Patrizia comes out of the cabin to see what is happening. They all lean over the side of the boat, looking down into the water, expecting the shark at any moment to come into view. But the water remains unruffled, the seaweed below is clearly visible, waving like so many fans. Even the rocks at the bottom can be seen with all sorts of small-gilled fish darting about. A mysterious, fascinating world and yet, because of what happened, one that arouses fear. Everyone aboard is silent. Until Anna and Sandro, followed by Raimondo, finally arrive and climb aboard. Sandro immediately takes Anna to her cabin, and the others follow, making various
CLAUDIA: ( to Anna ) But how did you become aware of it? Did it touch you?
GIULIA: I would have died.
PATRIZIA: . and how ugly they are . with all those teeth.
CORRADO: ( shouting from the shore ) What happened?
GIULIA: ( shouting from the prow ) There's a shark in the area. Don't move from where you are!
CORRADO: Who's moving?
SANDRO: Here, drink some cognac.
ANNA: It's nothing. really. Let's go back. It's all over now. A pause and then an instant later, she begins shivering under the blanket.
ANNA: Only, I'd like to change. I'm a little cold.
PATRIZIA: But where did the shark go to?
ANNA: Which one shall I wear?
CLAUDIA: ( picking up one of the two dresses ) This one is gorgeous.
ANNA: Then why don't you try it on?
ANNA: It looks better on you than it does on me. You keep it.
ANNA: You know, that thing about the shark was all a before. She is obviously piqued and angry, but more with herself than with There's the difference between you and me: you know how to put over certain things, and I don't. Sometimes I envy you.
CLAUDIA: There's the difference between you and me: you know how to put over certain things, and I don't. Sometimes I envy you.
GIULIA: But aren't you afraid?
SAILOR: Ma'am, sharks never attack anybody. Anyway, the raft is dark, and they wouldn't be able to see So, it is true that they're blind.
PATRIZIA: So, it is true that they're blind.
SANDRO: How are you?
ANNA: Fine. Can't you see so yourself?
ANNA: I have an urge to put my feet on some land. Aren't you coming?
SANDRO: Anna. Maybe it would be better to wait a Wait for what?
ANNA: Wait for what?
PATRIZIA: Well, with a shark running loose around the place, I for one won't get aboard that raft! They'll have to catch it first. I want to see it right here before my feet, dead or alive.
CLAUDIA: Better dead.
GIULIA: Will the three of us fit?
SAILOR: Sure, sure. There's plenty of room.
ANNA: Claudia, aren't you coming?
CLAUDIA: I'm certainly not going to swim across.
ANNA: We'll send the raft back to you.
GIULIA: And bring some cushions when you come, and a water splash against the boat. Suddenly, she looks up at the sky and realizes that the sun has disappeared. Actually, it is hidden behind a cloud, and over on the horizon a group of other clouds have accumulated. The sailor left aboard the yacht is now signaling the other sailor on the raft who, having deposited Sandro, Anna and Giulia on the beach, is returning to pick up Claudia. He sounds the depths with his oar and then shouts up:
SAILOR: Okay. Come ahead, come ahead.
SAILOR: I'm taking the boat right up to the shore, and we'll let you get off from the gangplank as soon as we get there.
PATRIZIA: What do you want, Raimondo? Do you want me? A few years ago, maybe. but now. And, then, at this hour of the day!
PATRIZIA: Come, Claudia, do come in. There's no romance going on here.
PATRIZIA: There, have you seen enough now? Are you Patrizia calmly resumes her game and Raimondo again begins to stare at her. This time, at her breasts. And again Patrizia becomes conscious of the fact that he is staring at her. She assumes a bored attitude and looks up at the ceiling in a gesture of quiet forbearance. Raimondo reaches out with his hand and gently caresses Patrizia's breast. Claudia looks on in amazement. Raimondo withdraws his hand.
PATRIZIA: ( regretfully ) Now, tell the truth, aren't you a bit disappointed?. But I already told you.
RAIMONDO: If women's breasts were colored, yours would be she turns to Claudia.
PATRIZIA: Tell me, Claudia, what do you think of Raimondo?
CLAUDIA: I would say he's pretty depraved.
PATRIZIA: Oh no; quite the contrary. He's really just a Patrizia, don't start in again. I would rather be called depraved. Unless you happen to love children.
RAIMONDO: Patrizia, don't start in again. I would rather be called depraved. Unless you happen to love children.
PATRIZIA: You know, I don't love anybody.
RAIMONDO: ( angrily ) I know, dammit, I know! ( turning to Claudia ) And just think if there ever was a woman so right, so perfectly cut out for all kinds of dissipations, degradations, infidelities. of.. . of. of debaucheries, it's her. Well, anyway, she's faithful. Faithful out of laziness. of unwillingness.
PATRIZIA: He amuses me. I don't know of anything more amusing. Outside of this jigsaw puzzle. Don't you find it so, Claudia?
CLAUDIA: One would have to be in love with somebody to know that.
PATRIZIA: Have you ever been in love?
CLAUDIA: Not really. It's suffocating in here. Shall we go out?
CORRADO: If any of you get into your bathing suits again, you can be sure we won't be seeing one another for the rest of the year. I just can't stand seeing anybody in the city after having seen them naked on the beach.
CLAUDIA: Oh, how sweet. What a dear little darling!
GIULIA: Who are you talking to?
CLAUDIA: To the shark.
CORRADO: Say, Claudia, wouldn't you like to climb up with me and take a look over there?
CLAUDIA: At what?
CORRADO: At the ruins. They're very ancient, you know.
CLAUDIA: That sounds like a good idea. But why don't we all go together?
GIULIA: Please, I beg of you, stay here.
CORRADO: ( noticing Claudia's hesitancy ) Well, what?
CLAUDIA: Well, what?
CORRADO: Have you decided?
CLAUDIA: All I said was that it sounds like a good idea.
GIULIA: Why didn't you ask me to go with you?
CORRADO: Do you know why? Because if you saw those ruins I'm sure you would have said they were very, very beautiful. You always say "how beautiful" to everything whether it's the sea, or a baby, or a cat! You have such a sensitive little heart that it throbs for anything.
CORRADO: ( ironically ) But Corrado. If something is beautiful why shouldn't one say so?
GIULIA: ( referring to Corrado ) He never misses a chance to humiliate me, to let me know that he doesn't care about me any Giulia, that remark is not worthy of our twelve years of honest concubinage. I repeat, once and for all, and publicly, that I admire you. Does that please you?
CORRADO: Giulia, that remark is not worthy of our twelve years of honest concubinage. I repeat, once and for all, and publicly, that I admire you. Does that please you?
CLAUDIA: ( under her breath to Twelve years . But why haven't they married?
SANDRO: ( with a faint smile ) And why haven't they left each other?
CLAUDIA: I'm beginning to have my doubts. It couldn't be that they're in love?
SANDRO: Could be. They're the kind of people who are capable of anything.
GIULIA: ( to Corrado ) The trouble with you is that nobody can speak to you, that's all.
SANDRO: ( placatingly ) Giulia, don't you understand that the more involved you become with people, the more difficult it is to speak with them?
GIULIA: You men are all so dreadful!
SANDRO: I know we are. But as the years go by, we become even worse. Isn't that so, Corrado?
CORRADO: I hope so.
CLAUDIA: How wonderful!
CORRADO: That's Patrizia's way of letting us know she's with us.
CLAUDIA: I think you're very sweet, Corrado.
CORRADO: More so than the shark?
CLAUDIA: There's no comparison.
CORRADO: Then why don't we go up and see the ruins?
ANNA: Sandro. A month is too long a time. I have become used to being without you.
SANDRO: You'll get over it soon. It's the usual anxiety.
ANNA: A little more so this time.
SANDRO: So, it will just take you a little longer to get over it.
ANNA: ( angrily ) But I think we should talk about it. Or are you fully convinced that we too won't understand each other?
SANDRO: There will be plenty of time to talk about it later. We'll get married soon. That way we'll have more time.
ANNA: In this case, getting married means nothing. Aren't we already the same as being married? And Corrado and Giulia aren't they already the same as being married?
SANDRO: But why rattle your brains by arguing and talking. Believe me, Anna, words never help at all. They only serve to confuse. I love you, Anna. Isn't I that enough?
ANNA: No. It's not enough. I told you before that I would like to get away for a while and be alone.
SANDRO: But you just said that a month was too.
ANNA: ( interrupting ) I mean, to stay away longer two months. a year. three years. Yes, I know, it sounds absurd. And I feel awful. The very idea of losing you makes me want to die. And yet. I. I just don't have the same feeling for you any more.
SANDRO: And what about yesterday. at my house. didn't you have any feeling for me, even then?
ANNA: ( angrily ) There you go. Must you always spoil the scene had exhausted him, then stretches himself on the ground, his face turned skyward, his eyes shut tight.
GIULIA: Looks like the weather is changing.
CORRADO: Please, Giulia; must you always emphasize the obvious? I can see for myself that the weather is changing.
SAILOR: We'll have to get going.
CLAUDIA: And where's Anna? Isn't she on the yacht?
SAILOR: I don't know. you see. we were taking a little nap.
RAIMONDO: You've made some mistake there with the bushes. that's why you can't finish it.
PATRIZIA: Take it easy, Raimondo. Why are you getting so Patrizia! .
CLAUDIA: Patrizia! .
CLAUDIA: Is Anna there?
RAIMONDO: I don't think so.
RAIMONDO: She's not here.
SANDRO: ( angrily, to himself ) This is the kind of behavior that drives me Down at the shore, Giulia is getting ready to step on the gangplank and go aboard the yacht but, anxious about Anna's whereabouts, she changes her mind and turns back. Claudia, also deeply concerned, decides to remain and look around for herself. She turns and starts climbing up towards the rock in an opposite direction than that taken by Sandro, who has now reached the top.
SANDRO: Did you find her?
CLAUDIA: It's a lamb!
CLAUDIA: Find anything?
SANDRO: Perhaps she's taking a swim somewhere.
CORRADO: Perhaps she's taking a swim somewhere.
CORRADO: It's really a fact there's nothing new under the sun. Now, look here. Look at this structure. a kind of natural shelter. Sandro, that's how you should design your houses.
SANDRO: Me?. I no longer have any interest in building. And, then, where can you find boulders of rock like this in Milan?
CLAUDIA: Somebody must live here!
CORRADO: ( after examining the bread himself ) But Anna wouldn't be staying with the kind of people who live here.
SAILOR: We had better get started. The storm may break any minute now.
CLAUDIA: ( angrily ) What do you mean! What about Anna?
SANDRO: ( to the seaman ) Tell Lady Patrizia that we can't leave now. In fact, we'll have to make a tour around the Wouldn't it be better if you told that to the Lady yourself. I can't assume the responsibility for keeping the boat here. There's no place to tie it up. And then, you know, it's got a flat bottom, and if the sea gets a little too rough.
SAILOR: Wouldn't it be better if you told that to the Lady yourself. I can't assume the responsibility for keeping the boat here. There's no place to tie it up. And then, you know, it's got a flat bottom, and if the sea gets a little too rough.
SANDRO: ( angrily ) That doesn't make any difference! If we have to stay, we'll stay!
PATRIZIA: Perhaps she wasn't feeling well. Maybe a cramp or something.
SANDRO: Anna is an excellent swimmer. Even with a cramp, she would have managed to reach shore But you have to consider all possibilities, from Patrizia and goes towards the stern of the boat where he notices Corrado signaling to them from a remote section of the beach.
PATRIZIA: But you have to consider all possibilities, from Patrizia and goes towards the stern of the boat where he notices Corrado signaling to them from a remote section of the beach.
CORRADO: ( calling out ) There are some footprints around here.
SANDRO: ( calling from the stern, excitedly ) where Sandro is pointing at something dark and obscure afloat on the water up ( to the sailor ) Mario.Steer the boat that way.
RAIMONDO: ( to the sailor ) Mario.Steer the boat that way.
SAILOR: Shall I turn back?
SANDRO: No. Now that we're here, let's have a look around Basiluzzo. When we were swimming, she swam out in that It won't be easy to find a place to go ashore.
SAILOR: It won't be easy to find a place to go ashore.
SANDRO: Let's try to be practical about this. The best thing to do is for all of you to go to the closest island that has a police station, or something, and report the disappearance. I'll remain here. because. well, I don't know, but it seems to me that something may turn up. Anyway, I just don't feel like leaving.
CORRADO: Then let's get started. It's senseless to waste any more time.
PATRIZIA: ( to the sailor ) How long will it take to go there and come If there's a police station at Panarea, it should take us a couple of hours. But if we have to go to Lipari, it will take much longer. Then it also depends on how rough the sea is.
SAILOR: If there's a police station at Panarea, it should take us a couple of hours. But if we have to go to Lipari, it will take much longer. Then it also depends on how rough the sea is.
CORRADO: I'll stay here also.
GIULIA: ( alarmed ) But why?. What if it starts to rain?
CORRADO: If it rains, I'll buy myself an umbrella.
CORRADO: ( to Claudia, understandingly ) Claudia, I know how you feel, but there are already two of us staying.
SANDRO: I'll go even further and say that her presence here I don't want to sound offensive could be a great hindrance.
GIULIA: ( calling to Corrado Do you want some blankets? . and something to eat?
CLAUDIA: As far as I'm concerned, I think she's alive. Why, even this morning. that business about the shark. it wasn't at all true.
SANDRO: And why do you tell us this only now?
CLAUDIA: I. I don't know. I didn't think it was worthwhile. She was laughing over it.
CORRADO: Really! Still, it remains to be seen why she invented a shark. What was her purpose in that?
CLAUDIA: ( indicating Sandro ) Maybe you'd better ask him.
CORRADO: ( to Sandro ) What were you and Anna arguing about?. Excuse me for being so indiscreet, but this is Nothing but the usual argument. The only thing was if I remember correctly that she said she had a need to be alone.
SANDRO: Nothing but the usual argument. The only thing was if I remember correctly that she said she had a need to be alone.
CLAUDIA: And how do you explain that?
SANDRO: Are you the owner of this place?
OLD MAN: No. The owners are in Australia.
SANDRO: But where did you come from?
OLD MAN: From Panarea. Why?
CORRADO: Ah, then it was you. I heard a boat leaving here at two o'clock today.
OLD MAN: ( scratching his head ) It must have been around four or five.
CORRADO: In the afternoon?
OLD MAN: No. in the morning. Why? What's happened?
SANDRO: Nothing. nothing at all!
CLAUDIA: But why don't you tell him? A girl who was with us has disappeared.
OLD MAN: What do you mean. disappeared? Was she No, she didn't drown. She just disappeared, and nobody knows where.
CLAUDIA: No, she didn't drown. She just disappeared, and nobody knows where.
SANDRO: And I suppose it's my fault. Why don't you tell him that too. That's what you believe, isn't it?
CLAUDIA: Rather than being so occupied with my thoughts, you would have been better off trying to understand what Anna was thinking.
OLD MAN: Have you searched in back of the house to see if she might have fallen off that cliff? Last month that's what happened to one of my sheep. I looked all over for it all day long and it wasn't until late at night that I heard it bleating. It had been there the whole day. and was almost dead.
CLAUDIA: Anna! . . . Anna!
CORRADO: Come, Claudia.come back inside.
SANDRO: Are you feeling better?
CLAUDIA: ( nodding yes ) I'm sorry about last night. Please forgive me.
SANDRO: You're very fond of Anna, aren't you?
CLAUDIA: Yes, very much so.
SANDRO: Has she ever spoken to you about me?
CLAUDIA: Occasionally, but always with affection.
SANDRO: And yet, she seemed to feel that our love for her mine, yours, even her father's, in a certain sense weren't enough for her, or didn't mean much to her.
CLAUDIA: I know. I keep asking myself what I could have done to prevent all this from happening.
SANDRO: Whose boat is that?
OLD MAN: ( astonished ) What boat?
SANDRO: Just a moment ago. didn't you hear the sound of a motor?
OLD MAN: At this time of the year there are so many And how come you're up so early?
SANDRO: And how come you're up so early?
OLD MAN: Early? Is four in the morning early for you?
GIULIA: How did you spend the night?. In that hut?. And what did you have to eat?
CORRADO: What do you think?
GIULIA: We, too, you know. It was disastrous. First at Panarea, where there weren't any boats. then at Lipari, where everybody was asleep. And the phone call to Rome.
PATRIZIA: We had to notify her father.
CORRADO: Yes, that was a very good idea.
PATRIZIA: He'll be here sometime today. I also phoned my house in Milan. but Ettore had already left.
MARSHAL: ( to Sandro ) Anything new develop?
SANDRO: Unfortunately, no.
MARSHAL: Very well. First of all, I'll have them search the waters around the island. I brought two frogmen with me. Meanwhile, we'll take a look up around here.
SANDRO: Look, Marshal, with those deep crevasses, you'll need some rope and ladders.
MARSHAL: Don't worry, we've got everything.
SANDRO: Another thing; there's an old man who lives here on the island.
MARSHAL: ( interrupting ) I know, I know. One thing at a time.
PATRIZIA: No, who wants crackers. Why don't you go and have some coffee made instead? Meanwhile, Sandro has arrived at the edge of the precipice where he finds Giulia and Corrado. They are looking down at one of the carabinieri who is dangling from a long rope over the side of the rock, exploring the crevasses where a body might have fallen from the precipice above. The Marshal leans over to see if anything has been discovered.
CARABINIERE: ( calling up to the Marshal ) Nothing here!
CORRADO: Don't look at me like that, Marshal. I had nothing to do with it.
PATRIZIA: ( referring to the frogmen below ) Let's hope they don't find her. If they do, they would find her dead.
SANDRO: Listen, Patrizia. The Marshal says there's a current that passes by here and ends up at another island. I don't know which. He wants to send one of his men over to have a look. One never knows. Do you mind if I ask Raimondo to go with him?
PATRIZIA: I don't see why I should mind.
CLAUDIA: ( to Sandro ) I think that you might go and have a look Yes, maybe that is better.
SANDRO: Yes, maybe that is better.
PATRIZIA: ( to Claudia ) What amazes me, is Sandro. He seems so calm.
CLAUDIA: ( rising ) Calm?. He doesn't seem so to me. He was awake all night.
RAIMONDO: ( to the frogman ) What is it?
FROGMAN: An ancient vase. There's a buried city under here. It's full of this stuff.
PATRIZIA: ( ironically ) Come on, Corrado, tell us what century it belongs to.
GIULIA: Corrado, why don't you ask them to give it to us as a gift?
CORRADO: Really! So that you can stuff it with your But aren't you supposed to be on your way?
PATRIZIA: ( to Sandro ) But aren't you supposed to be on your way?
SANDRO: Yes. I'm going. I'm going now.
SANDRO: ( to the carabiniere ) It's already two hours. What are we going to It takes about twenty to twenty-two hours for the current to reach here from Lisca Bianca.
CARABINIERE: It takes about twenty to twenty-two hours for the current to reach here from Lisca Bianca.
ELDERLY GENTLEMAN: And sometimes even twenty-four. depending on the wind.
CARABINIERE: If the girl disappeared yesterday afternoon, we'll have to wait at least until three or four the center of the village. The houses and shops around the square are very plain and shabby. Sandro spots a barber shop and, fingering his day-old beard, enters for a shave. Shortly thereafter, a clamor of voices is heard outside and Sandro comes dashing out of the shop. Seeing the islanders fighting and arguing about something drawn up from the sea, he runs over to find out what it is. As he arrives on the scene, two policemen step out of the confusion dragging a large crate, which they carry over to the door of a nearby shack, amid the protests of the islanders who are still arguing and shouting among It belongs to me. We found it.
VOICES: It belongs to me. We found it.
GENTLEMAN: Back. Stand back!
CARABINIERE: ( to the islanders ) You see? It contains cigarettes. We'll have to confiscate it.
CARABINIERE: ( to Sandro ) These people are contemptible. They have no sense of dignity at all.
SANDRO: ( referring to the crate ) And you say that came from Lisca Bianca?
CARABINIERE: It couldn't have come from anywhere else. At least, somewhere from that vicinity. But I really can't understand it. Contraband cigarettes on that island! It's the first time that ever happened.
SANDRO: Look. I'd like to get back to Lisca Bianca.
CARABINIERE: But how could we.at a time like this when we just. well, let's at least first have a look around the other islands. Could be that something might turn up there.
SANDRO: ( impatiently ) But even here we were supposed to find who knows what. And all we bring back with us is a crate of cigarettes.
CARABINIERE: ( shrugging his shoulders ) As you wish.
MARSHAL: ( to the old man ) . Is it also true that you saw no boat around here at Lisca between yesterday and this OLD MAN How many times do I have to tell you, Marshal, that I was at Panarea.
OLD MAN: How many times do I have to tell you, Marshal, that I was at Panarea.
MARSHAL: I believe you, I believe you. But I'm also certain that you're hiding something from me. I can see it written all over your face. And you know that I have never liked your face. And if you want to know something, that gentleman over there. .who's a very important person. doesn't like it either. So, just keep that in mind. I'll talk to you later.
ANNA'S FATHER: I presume by this method that you'll be able to uncover some new clue, either a handkerchief or an article of clothing. In other words, something which your men have not been able to find as yet.
MARSHAL: Without any doubt, sir. If anything belonging to the girl who has run away is still here on this island.
ANNA'S FATHER: ( resentfully ) Allow me to inform you that my daughter is not a fugitive.
MARSHAL: I'm sorry, sir. I didn't mean to put it that way. But, you must understand, sir, that I.
ANNA'S FATHER: I understand very well. Only I don't want any rash assumptions to be made.
MARSHAL: Here's her valise, sir.
CLAUDIA: Do you want me to open it?
ANNA'S FATHER: Yes, please.
ANNA'S FATHER: This looks to me like a good sign. Don't you think so? As far as I'm concerned, anyone who reads the Bible could not have committed an act of impropriety. Why. as a matter of fact, I remember when I was in China, many years ago, I happened to be involved in a similar situation, concerning an English woman, the wife of Ambassador Shafford, a good friend of mine. There, too, we found a Bible. And I said at the time that whatever had happened, that clue alone had definitely ruled out the possibility of. suicide. Why, it was logical, I said, that whoever reads the Bible believes in God and therefore. No? You don't believe it? Well, as a matter of fact, I was right. The woman was found two days later. It was a case of amnesia.
MARSHAL: Sir, if you have no objections, may we start the search?
ATTENDANT: ( to the Marshal ) Get everybody out of the way.
MARSHAL: Okay. I'll send them down to that part of the beach over there.
CLAUDIA: It's because of this. The dress. It's because of this dress. Anna gave it to me yesterday, right after the swim.
CORRADO: And what are we going to do now?
MARSHAL: We'll try again.
PATRIZIA: But is it really necessary? Those two beasts. How absurd!
GIULIA: Sandro's here.
ANNA'S FATHER: ( coldly ) I don't know him.
GIULIA: It seems to me that at a moment like this.
ANNA'S FATHER: I don't want to know him.
SANDRO: Claudia, listen . Claudia.
CORRADO: ( to Sandro ) I didn't think you'd be back so early.
CARABINIERE: ( interrupting ) We didn't check the other islands, so.
CORRADO: And why didn't you go there?
CARABINIERE: ( referring to Sandro ) He wanted to come back.
MARSHAL: Up until now those smugglers were operating only around the Palermo area. This will be a nice surprise for the Lieutenant in Milazzo. Call up headquarters. Bring them up to date and have them give you instructions on what to do with this crate.
CORRADO: So. the boat we saw yesterday afternoon might have also been that of these smugglers. Could it be possible, then, that Anna.?
MARSHAL: ( evading Corrado's question I wonder where they could have unloaded the stuff . Maybe right here at Lisca.
CORRADO: I was saying. it might even be possible that Anna had left with them.
MARSHAL: But for what reason would she have wanted to go Listen, Marshal. As for there being reasons for going away, anyone of us might have three thousand of them. So you can assume that she had them. What I want to know, is it possible that the smugglers might have taken her aboard?
CORRADO: Listen, Marshal. As for there being reasons for going away, anyone of us might have three thousand of them. So you can assume that she had them. What I want to know, is it possible that the smugglers might have taken her aboard?
MARSHAL: I think it's possible.
A SAILOR: ( calling from the patrol boat ) Marshal!. Headquarters is calling. They have an important message.
MARSHAL: What is it about?
SAILOR: They've stopped a suspicious-looking boat a few miles from here. yesterday afternoon. The crew has been taken to Milazzo for questioning.
CORRADO: Did you hear that? What do you plan on doing?
ANNA'S FATHER: ( resignedly ) We are in the hands of God.
SANDRO: That's true.But in the meantime, as far as I'm concerned, it's absolutely necessary to go to Milazzo. I know that you have no desire to meet me, and I shall take pains not to impose myself upon you. But, besides you, I am the closest person to your daughter.
ANNA'S FATHER: However that may be, at this moment my daughter has more need of her father than of you.
SANDRO: Pardon me for being so frank, but there are certain things that a father especially a father like you cannot understand. So don't be stubborn. I'm coming with you.
SANDRO: Patrizia, what are you going to do?
PATRIZIA: What do you want us to do? I don't know myself. But we'll do something.
SANDRO: I'll go and get my valise.
PATRIZIA: We've decided to go to Montaldo's place. In fact, Ettore should already be there.
SANDRO: ( intervening ) Good. Then I'll meet you there.
CLAUDIA: I'm going with the patrol boat to make a tour around the islands.
PATRIZIA: To do what?
CLAUDIA: I just can't leave without first searching those islands, one by one.
PATRIZIA: But aren't you tired? I can just about manage to stand on my feet! Here I am, Patrizia. I'm always here.
RAIMONDO: Here I am, Patrizia. I'm always here.
PATRIZIA: Claudia isn't coming with us. Will you please take care of her luggage? Thanks.
SAILOR: No, sir, Lieutenant, we weren't even able to drop anchor once . the sea was too rough.
LIEUTENANT: Okay. Just sign here. Have the next one come in. He's the last, isn't he?
LIEUTENANT: They tell me you have a lot of trouble at home. Is that right?
YOUNG SAILOR: Yes, sir. My sister is sick. and my father, too.
LIEUTENANT: So that's why you've turned to smuggling, eh? You need the money. Now, I can help you. I can see that you get some assistance from the government. But first there's a little formality we've got to take care of. Just a few questions and then we can all go to lunch. Your friend tells me you dropped anchor three times.
YOUNG SAILOR: Yes, sir. Three times.
LIEUTENANT: ( to Sandro and Anna's father ) Now, we're getting somewhere! They're beginning to contradict each other. ( then, facing the sailor again ) Now look here, your friend just swore to me that you weren't able to do any fishing at all because the sea was too rough. And what about the other boat?
YOUNG SAILOR: What other boat?
LIEUTENANT: Now look, my men saw it and they also saw you men throwing those crates overboard. What have you got to say about that?
YOUNG SAILOR: ( stuttering ) I . I . wasn't feeling well . I.. I was sleeping. I don't know anything . I . I'm all mixed up and .
SANDRO: But what are you saying?. What are you and continues.
LIEUTENANT: Now look here, I'm ready to forget the whole thing: the cigarettes, the contraband everything. If you would only tell me. you or your friends. whether the girl was aboard your boat and how far she went.
LIEUTENANT: ( to Anna's father ) Just as I thought. Even if you caught them in the act, they'd deny it. They always deny everything. And then, in this case, if they were to admit having had the girl aboard, it would mean they'd be admitting to the charge of carrying contraband. Oh, it's easy to say: talk! But if they did talk, the following morning you'd find them cold dead in front of their doorstep.
ANNA'S FATHER: I think it would be worth my while to take a run over to Palermo. The Chief of Police there is a very good friend of mine and I'm sure he'll do whatever he can. I feel we're wasting our time here. Excuse me, Lieutenant. I hope we see each other again under better circumstances. And thanks for everything.
LIEUTENANT: At any rate, we'll continue investigating. I know that headquarters has sent out an alarm to all areas.
SANDRO: ( showing the newspaper Tell me, Lieutenant, do you happen to know this F.Z. who wrote this article here?
LIEUTENANT: That's Francesco Zuria. He's the news Where can we locate him? Don't you think that by offering a reward to anyone who can give us some information.
SANDRO: Where can we locate him? Don't you think that by offering a reward to anyone who can give us some information.
LIEUTENANT: Zuria is in Messina. You might try him. Shall we phone him?
SERGEANT: Have you any instructions for me, Lieutenant? May I return to Lipari?
LIEUTENANT: Yes. With whom did you leave the crate of I left it at the warehouse.
SERGEANT: I left it at the warehouse.
SANDRO: Pardon me, Sergeant, but when did you get back?
SERGEANT: About two hours ago.
SANDRO: And the young lady who was with you?
SERGEANT: I don't know. She said she had to catch a building, and heads towards the station.
SANDRO: Where are you going?. To Montaldo's?
CLAUDIA: Then I'll go with you.
SANDRO: Then I'll go with you.
CLAUDIA: Have you read it?. They're asking for anyone with information to get in touch with them.
SANDRO: Yes. I had also thought of going there to talk with them.
CLAUDIA: Yes, you should go.
SANDRO: But then when will we see each other?
CLAUDIA: I know it's difficult. But if you go on like this it will become even more difficult.
CLAUDIA: Please, don't look so solemn. And don't wait for the train to come in.
CLAUDIA: Please, please leave. I don't want to look out of the window and wave to you with a at him so pleadingly and with such a determined expression, that he finally succumbs and starts walking towards the exit behind the train tracks. The train has just pulled into the station. The platform is completely empty and Claudia is the only one to board the train. She climbs up the steps and the door is closed behind her. A second later, she appears at the window, looks out briefly, then disappears into her compartment. The station master raises the signal for the engine to start, a short whistle is heard, and soon the train gets under way. Sandro dashes out across the tracks, swings open one of the doors, and boards the train as it picks up speed and pulls away from the station. Claudia is seated in a corner near the window, looking out. She appears completely relaxed and totally drained of energy, fatigued after so much tension. After a few seconds, she turns around and is abruptly startled to see Sandro standing nearby in the corridor. He comes over to her compartment and takes a seat directly opposite to hers. Claudia is absolutely furious.
CLAUDIA: Go ahead, now say something! I want to know just what it is we have to say to each other.
CLAUDIA: Sandro, I don't want you to come with me, I don't want to see you. How can I make it clear to you?.Why did you come?
SANDRO: I don't know why. I just couldn't help it.
CLAUDIA: But sooner or later we've got to end this relationship. And it's better to do it right I have no desire to sacrifice myself. It's idiotic to sacrifice oneself. Why?. For whom? If Anna were here I might understand your scruples. But she's not.
SANDRO: I have no desire to sacrifice myself. It's idiotic to sacrifice oneself. Why?. For whom? If Anna were here I might understand your scruples. But she's not.
CLAUDIA: ( deeply wounded ) Oh, Sandro.
SANDRO: I'm sorry. I didn't want to sound cynical. But isn't it better to look things squarely in the For me they are exactly as they were when we met three days ago just three days ago. don't you realize? And you and Anna. No, I guess they aren't like that any more. My God, is it possible to forget in such a short time, for things to change so quickly?
CLAUDIA: For me they are exactly as they were when we met three days ago just three days ago. don't you realize? And you and Anna. No, I guess they aren't like that any more. My God, is it possible to forget in such a short time, for things to change so quickly?
SANDRO: It takes even less.
CLAUDIA: But it's so sad. So terribly sad. I'm not used to it, I'm not ready for it. You know. I have never been so upset in my life. Sandro, why don't you help me?
SANDRO: I think the only way to help ourselves, Claudia, is for us to be together.
CLAUDIA: No, I'm sure it won't. Move over there. Let's make believe nothing happened. And when we get to the next station, get off.
SANDRO: And what about you?
CLAUDIA: Me. I. I. Please leave me alone.
WOMAN'S VOICE: I work there but I'm really a stranger.
MAN'S VOICE: I tell you this acquaintance of mine knows you and she has often spoken to me about you.
WOMAN'S VOICE: And who is she? Does she work in Catania?
MAN'S VOICE: Yes, she takes care of the garden.
WOMAN'S VOICE: Then it's impossible for her to know me. In the villa where I'm at, we have a male gardener.
MAN'S VOICE: So? That's logical. You see, both being gardeners, they spoke about you to one another.
WOMAN'S VOICE: And what did they say about me?
MAN'S VOICE: They told me that you were a very nice girl, that you always mind your business. In other words, things of that sort.
WOMAN'S VOICE: We have a radio like this, too.
MAN'S VOICE: No, not like this one.
WOMAN'S VOICE: And why wouldn't we have one like this?
MAN'S VOICE: Because this is a Chinese radio.
WOMAN'S VOICE: Certainly a radio this small is very practical. It's especially useful for. I don't know. for traveling.
MAN'S VOICE: But for you, what comes first: music or love?
WOMAN'S VOICE: Music, of course. To get a sweetheart, one has to look around, but to get a radio, all you have to do is buy one.
MAN'S VOICE: Ah, no. For me, love comes first. I'm a man, and I know what's what: first love, and then looks out the little window. The train is coming into a station and is beginning to slow down. Claudia grabs Sandro by the sleeve and pulls him through the corridor. Sandro tries to resist.
SANDRO: Claudia, listen to me.
CLAUDIA: No, Sandro, please. I ask you as a favor.
CLAUDIA: Promise that you won't try to look for me. you shouldn't try to look for me any more.
SANDRO: But why, Claudia?. Why?
SANDRO: Even if you chase me away, I. Claudia, let's not wait any longer. After, it will be too late . Come with me.
PRINCESS: Did you have a good trip? It is such a magnificent day! I am very happy that Sicily is able to give you so warm a welcome. And you do deserve it. You're such a lovely blonde. Come, my dear.
PRINCESS: And where are you from?
CLAUDIA: From Rome.
PRINCESS: Oh, how nice! So, you're from Rome. And would you happen to know of some intelligent clergyman in Rome who might be willing to come here and stay with us? We have our own private little chapel. It is a masterpiece, with seventeenth-century frescoes. and the remains of all our dead ancestors, a wonderful collection. He would find it very convenient there, and could say his own masses. Then he would have to spend a little time with my husband, who never sees anyone, to keep him An intelligent clergyman, Princess? But I think the intelligent clergymen of today have so many other things to do.
CLAUDIA: An intelligent clergyman, Princess? But I think the intelligent clergymen of today have so many other things to do.
PRINCESS: Well, perhaps one with a little physical handicap. One who is slightly lame, for wicker lounge chairs, are Patrizia, Giulia and a young man dressed in simple, casual clothes. The first one to notice Claudia and to greet her with warm cordiality, is Giulia.
GIULIA: Well, finally! We were beginning to get worried about you, too.
PATRIZIA: But where did you finally end up?
CLAUDIA: It was futile. We went all over.
CLAUDIA: ( referring to Anna ) But why does she do these things? ( she takes a sip from I can't stand it any more.
GIULIA: ( to Corrado and Ettore ) But how can you carry on a discussion in this When one approaches fifty, my dear, he is affected only by the cold.
CORRADO: When one approaches fifty, my dear, he is affected only by the cold.
ETTORE: ( noticing Claudia ) And who is this?
PATRIZIA: This is Claudia, Anna's friend. You've never met my husband, have you?
ETTORE: By the way, have you phoned him?
CORRADO: You mean Sandro? I told you already. He's not in. At least he's not at the hotel.
ETTORE: Now look what has to go and happen. At a time when I'll be needing him. How can we discuss things when we lack dates and figures?.
PATRIZIA: But didn't he say he was coming here.
ETTORE: Well, what are you all waiting for? Send a car out to get him. He can't be more than a couple of hundred miles away.
GIULIA: To me, the fact that hasn't shown up is a good sign. Do you want to bet that he's found Anna?
ETTORE: Maybe. But do you know that forty thousand persons a year disappear in Italy without leaving a single trace behind them. Forty thousand! Almost as much as the entire population of San Siro. Raimondo, will you go and see if you can locate Sandro?
RAIMONDO: First let the poor thing have something to eat.
PATRIZIA: First let the poor thing have something to eat.
ETTORE: It wouldn't really do you any harm to skip a I've never met this Sandro. What kind of a person is he?. He couldn't have done her in himself, by any chance?
PRINCESS: I've never met this Sandro. What kind of a person is he?. He couldn't have done her in himself, by any chance?
ETTORE: ( breaking out into a loud laugh ) Sandro?. Oh, sure. I can see Sandro calling Anna over to him and saying: Listen, Anna, I intend to get rid of you, but since it's so painful and complicated. and besides, I don't happen to have a gun on me. why don't you do me a favor and get rid of yourself on your own.
GIULIA: My God, how could we joke over something like that! We should be ashamed of ourselves.
PRINCESS: ( rising ) Come on, let's go.
GIULIA: ( to Claudia, referring Goffredo is the Princess' nephew. He's eighteen years old, the lucky boy. And, what do you know he paints.
GOFFREDO: Anybody can hold a brush in his hand. All you need is to buy some oils and start painting. Even Rembrandt did the same.
ETTORE: But. where is the Prince?. Is he well?
PRINCESS: The last time I saw him, the day before yesterday, it seemed he was well.
ETTORE: Princess, why don't you sell this villa? I would turn it into a lovely psychiatric clinic.
PRINCESS: It's a little like that already. Finally, even Claudia starts moving, slowly, behind the others; but she is still very much upset.
OTHER VOICES: It's Queen Saroya. I saw her. So, who could it be?
SANDRO: ( to one of the newspapermen ) Which one of you is Zuria?
NEWSPAPERMAN: He's inside.
SANDRO: Yes. Until proven otherwise.
ZURIA: Yes. Until proven otherwise.
SANDRO: I would like to ask you something.
ZURIA: Wait a moment. Can't you see I'm busy?
MANAGER: I phoned you, Chief, because, in view of the situation. I thought it best.
GIRL: I came down here to buy a foulard. Suddenly I realized that little by little, directly behind me, I was being followed by so many men, and more and more of them kept coming.
GIRL: But I have always gone around like this, everywhere in the world. Nothing like this has ever happened to me before.
ZURIA: ( to the girl ) How old are you?
GIRL: Nineteen. My name is Gloria Perkins. I'm married and a writer by profession. I write in a trance, almost always in contact with people who are dead. Tolstoi, for example, or Shakespeare. But the movies also interest me.
ZURIA: How do you find the men of Messina? Are you shocked by their warm display of friendliness?
GIRL: No, why should I be shocked? We're in Italy, not Finland.
ZURIA: And how were you received in Palermo?
GIRL: In Palermo I was with my husband. Now I'm going to Capri to write an article for the Tourist Office.
ZURIA: She did exactly the same thing in Palermo.
GIRL: Oh, yes, thank you.
ZURIA: Do you like her?
ZURIA: She costs a hundred thousand lire.
SANDRO: You're kidding!
ZURIA: No, I'm not. Why do you think she does all this? It's one of the many ways she can put herself on display. When you bait the trap, the mouse will snap. To tell you the truth, if it wasn't for the fact that one hundred thousand lire represents my whole month's salary, well. But you had something you wanted to ask me?
SANDRO: I read one of your articles regarding the disappearance of a girl. I'm that girl's fianc.
ZURIA: Oh. I'm sorry I have to rush but I've got to write a story about this thing that just happened. Tell me exactly how it all turned Now listen, if I had any information, I wouldn't have come here to ask you. But I see that you, too, lack any information .
SANDRO: ( impatiently ) Now listen, if I had any information, I wouldn't have come here to ask you. But I see that you, too, lack any information .
ZURIA: As a matter of fact, I've already had several phone calls on that article. One said they had seen the missing girl in an automobile somewhere in Rome. Another one said they saw her on the pier talking with some strange sailors. Could be she secretly left the island by boat.
SANDRO: Is that possible?
ZURIA: Who knows?. Another one has it that she entered a store in Troina. This information comes from the storekeeper himself who stated that such and such a girl had bought I don't know what in his store. at Troina.
SANDRO: Is that far from here?
ZURIA: About fifty miles or so. If you want, I'll give you the name of the storekeeper.
SANDRO: Yes. of course. But you should also print that in your paper. But right away, tomorrow morning. It's the local Palermo paper, isn't it?. I mean, it's widely read.
ZURIA: Yes, but why do you think our readers would be interested in such news now? Even if I sent it, the editors wouldn't print it.
SANDRO: You really must do me this one favor.
ZURIA: Pardon me, but why must I do you a favor?
SANDRO: Then let's call it a business proposition. Something to round out your salary.
PATRIZIA: Are you ready? I'm not. That's all we needed a cocktail party. The vitality some people have irritates me! How does it look?
CLAUDIA: ( ironically ) It's divine!
PATRIZIA: You say that just to flatter me.
CLAUDIA: Do you consider that a compliment?
PATRIZIA: after a few steps through the corridor, they separate with a friendly gesture towards each other. Patrizia goes into her room while Claudia prepares to descend the wide stairway. Coming up the same stairway are Giulia and the young Prince, Goffredo. There is something of an embarrassing moment between them. Then Giulia, aware of Claudia's presence, detaches herself from Goffredo and, as they reach the top of the stairs, she comes over to Claudia and takes her by the wrist in order to confide with her more intimately.
GIULIA: He wants to show me his paintings. He won't let go of me anymore. Poor thing, he must have a crush on me.
GIULIA: ( even more excited ) Please, you come too.
CLAUDIA: But for what reason should I come there?
GIULIA: Please, do come. Don't leave me alone with him. He's capable of. I don't know. Have you noticed his eyes?
GOFFREDO: Here I am.
GIULIA: Here I am.
GIULIA: Claudia, come and see. It's a nude.
CLAUDIA: They're all nudes, if I'm not mistaken.
GIULIA: ( to Goffredo ) But why all nudes?
GOFFREDO: Because there is no landscape as beautiful as a And where do you find the models?
GIULIA: And where do you find the models?
GOFFREDO: Oh, there are as many as one wants.
GIULIA: ( turning to Claudia ) I thought the model was something obsolete nowadays. Didn't you, Claudia?
GOFFREDO: It's strange how anxious women are to display themselves. It's almost a natural inclination.
GIULIA: But how could they pose like that? I couldn't.
GOFFREDO: ( with a grave, youthful sensuality ) Why don't you try?
GIULIA: Me. Goffredo, you're mad! He's mad.
CLAUDIA: Not really.
GIULIA: Don't you ever paint men?
GOFFREDO: Answer me, why don't you try posing? I'll paint you a beautiful portrait.
GIULIA: But why me?. Ask Claudia, she's much more beautiful than me.
GOFFREDO: ( insistent ) But I want to paint you. You appeal to me more.
GIULIA: ( timidly ) I appeal to you more?
CLAUDIA: ( almost unconsciously ) with an expression that seems somewhat triumphant. Before anybody has a chance to say anything, she heads towards the door, swings it open and stands firmly on the threshold, obviously intent on telling Claudia to leave. In fact, Claudia doesn't wait to be told but immediately walks out into the And tell Corrado, too, that I'm here. if he wants me. You can also tell him that my tiny little heart is beating like mad, and that at this moment, it's the only thing that interests me. Is that clear?
GIULIA: And tell Corrado, too, that I'm here. if he wants me. You can also tell him that my tiny little heart is beating like mad, and that at this moment, it's the only thing that interests me. Is that clear?
CLAUDIA: It couldn't be any clearer.
GIULIA: Now what do I have to do to be left in peace?
CLAUDIA: I think all you have to do, Giulia, is to close the door.
RAIMONDO: He's not at the hotel. and he probably wasn't even in Milazzo. The room clerk said he rented a car.
PATRIZIA: Claudia. Let's go.
CLAUDIA: I'm not coming.
PATRIZIA: But then why did you bother changing?
CORRADO: Giulia is like Oscar Wilde; give her the superfluous and she will do without the That's him; he'd die if he didn't have somebody to quote. He comes up with quotations like that even at a board of directors meeting.
ETTORE: That's him; he'd die if he didn't have somebody to quote. He comes up with quotations like that even at a board of directors meeting.
HUSBAND: Be patient, I can't remember everything.
SANDRO: ( indicating the newspaper article ) But it even says what she bought: a bar of soap! So there's no point in making believe you can't the wife jumps up from where she is sitting, comes over to Sandro and yanks the paper from his hands. Then she starts reading the article in a jerky manner typical of one who is not too literate.
WIFE: "A young female stranger, whose description corresponds with that of the missing girl, came into my store."
WIFE: She came and then she left. With him. But this one won't admit it.
HUSBAND: But if I was carrying on with the girl, why would I want to give any of this information to the newspaper?
WIFE: That's what I'd like to know myself.
HUSBAND: Fine, that makes two of us who want to know. In fact, three, with him. He indicates Sandro. Then, seeing a fat, luscious female customer enter the store, he turns to her and continues:
HUSBAND: Ah, Lady Amalia, would you be interested in knowing why I told the newspapers about a certain girl who came here the other day and then disappeared?
LADY AMALIA: Disappeared? Who is she? . Where? When?
HUSBAND: And that makes four. Anybody else?.
SANDRO: You have to be precise. Did this girl enter your store or didn't she?
WIFE: ( shouting ) ( ignoring her ) Was she blonde or brunette?
SANDRO: ( ignoring her ) Was she blonde or brunette?
HUSBAND: ( calmly ) ( contradicting him ) How was she dressed?
WIFE: ( contradicting him ) How was she dressed?
SANDRO: How was she dressed?
HUSBAND: I don't quite remember. Seems to me she wore a black dress.
WIFE: ( intervening sarcastically ) He doesn't look at dresses, he looks at what's under them.
SANDRO: Pardon me, but has anyone else been here asking about this girl?
HUSBAND: No . I don't think so.
SANDRO: down at a small outside table of a nearby caf. He looks out over the square: a small Sicilian town, quiet and still in the hot afternoon sun. Every now and then, he glances up at the country road that winds around the town, as though he were waiting for someone. A few moments later, in fact, a car comes into view and slows down as it reaches the square. The driver looks out for a place in which to park. Sandro rises to his feet. The car comes to a stop a few steps away from him. The driver rushes out of the car to open the door for the person inside: it is Claudia. Sandro immediately goes over to meet her, looking at her somewhat amazed. Not only does he see her more elegantly dressed than he has ever seen her before, wearing a smartly tailored polka-dot suit, but also as an entirely new person, as someone whose beauty he has discovered for the first time. For a moment they continue staring at each other, without even bothering to say hello.
CLAUDIA: Any news?
SANDRO: Yes. but it's all so conflicting. However, there is some slight indication.
HUSBAND: Listen. In the paper they forgot to say that as soon as the girl left here she took the bus to Noto. The bus leaves from the square, over there. I saw her clearly. I came to the door to see her off. She was a beautiful girl. Lovely pair of legs!
WIFE: You're from Rome, aren't you? I knew right away because I'm from Viterbo. He was a soldier there and so. I don't like it very much, here.
HUSBAND: ( interrupting ) Then why don't you go back?
CLAUDIA: How long have you been married?
WIFE: Three months. Claudia and Sandro look at each other. There is a moment of embarrassment, then Sandro breaks the silence.
SANDRO: Well. Thanks for the information.
SANDRO: It's better if we present a happy picture, no?
SANDRO: ( to the driver ) Tell the Signora Patrizia that we are continuing the search.and that the Signorina Claudia will manage to survive somehow.
DRIVER: Did your car break down?
SANDRO: No. I only want some information.
SANDRO: We're searching for a girl of about twenty-five. Seems she boarded this bus two days ago, in the afternoon. You should remember her because she was a stranger around She was a little nervous. dark-haired . with a kerchief around her head?
DRIVER: She was a little nervous. dark-haired . with a kerchief around her head?
ASSISTANT: Two days ago. wasn't there that midwife on the bus, too? Sure, that's right, and she was talking to some young woman .
SANDRO: Can you tell me where she got off?
ASSISTANT: All I can tell you is that the midwife is from
SANDRO: Okay, thanks.
CLAUDIA: My God . Let's hope it was her.
MIDWIFE: I only exchanged a few casual words with her, as one would ordinarily do on a public bus.
SANDRO: And do you remember where she got off?
MIDWIFE: Well.probably at the last stop, which is Noto.
CLAUDIA: After that, you didn't see her anymore?
MIDWIFE: What are you trying to insinuate, young lady? Why should I have seen her again? I don't do anything that's illegitimate.
CLAUDIA: Oh, no. What are you saying? I'm not insinuating anything.
MIDWIFE: And furthermore, my dear young lady. because you really are a dear, you know .if the story of that girl is merely a pretext, let us say, to get in touch with her, then I feel it is my duty to warn her. These things are very, very dangerous, especially in a neighborhood like this where people occupy themselves more with other people's affairs than their own.
SANDRO: Then you should also be able to tell me where a young girl might stay in Noto; are there any hotels or rooming houses?
MIDWIFE: There's the Trinacria Hotel. or the Regina, near the municipal building. As for rooming houses, I don't know.
SANDRO: Thank you.
MIDWIFE: Don't mention it. Pleased to be of service any time.
CLAUDIA: Look at that bridge! Who knows why they even bothered to make it.
CLAUDIA: Look at that: a factory. a station. and look at those tracks, all full of weeds. But ahead a small town comes into view, with monotonous rows of newly constructed homes lined up along the side of the road. The car enters the town and stops. Sandro gets out and goes over to a fountain nearby, but the fountain is dry. Somewhat surprised, he begins to look around. And only then do Sandro and Claudia become aware that the silence around them is an unnatural one, that the doors and the windows of all the houses in the town are tightly shut. There is no sign of life anywhere, except for the weeds growing between the cracks in the walls, invading and suffocating everything in sight. Claudia gets out of the car, joins Sandro, and together they start walking along the streets. The sun beats furiously down upon the crumbling houses, upon the church, upon the useless monument in the square on which a dedication is inscribed: "To The Agricultural Worker." Sandro looks around in absolute silence. Claudia is also silent, somewhat dismayed. Instinctively, she presses up close to Sandro who leads her to a shady spot where the ground is overgrown with weeds. Sandro and Claudia are lying next to each other on the grass. Sandro appears calm but is actually looking at Claudia as though he were about to embrace her with his eyes. Then he takes her hand. Claudia offers no resistance; in fact, she entwines her fingers around his, almost with a sense of desperation. Sandro tries to kiss her. She makes a feeble attempt to resist, looks around, and sees the deserted town, the barren fields, the crumbling, sun-baked walls. She turns and looks at Sandro again, and now it is she who kisses him. When they break apart, they stretch themselves out upon the grass. Sandro kisses her violently, again and again and again.
CLAUDIA: ( faintly audible ) It's late. We should be going.
CLAUDIA: Let's get out of here, fast. This is not a town, it's a cemetery.
SANDRO: Who knows why they all left.
CLAUDIA: Sandro . maybe it's best that you go in alone.
SANDRO: Are you joking?
CLAUDIA: Don't think that I want to save myself from any embarrassment, from the awkwardness of meeting Anna. It's not that; it's that you can say certain things easier if you're alone. Please, Sandro, do try to understand me. It would look like I was trying to influence you, to force you, to control you. and that makes me feel uncomfortable.
CLAUDIA: Some cigarettes, please. Do you have any?. Nazionali with filters .
SANDRO: What is it, Claudia?
CLAUDIA: Oh, Sandro. I'm so ashamed of myself, so ashamed.I tried to hide myself.I feel so small. I hate myself .
SANDRO: Does it please you to say such things?
CLAUDIA: Oh no. It doesn't please me at all.
SANDRO: Then why do you say them?
CLAUDIA: Because what I'm doing is so ugly . Because if you told me right now: "Claudia, I love you," I would believe you.
CLAUDIA: No. Because then I'd force you to swear it, I'd force you to tell me an infinite amount of things. and that wouldn't be right, it couldn't be right. It would be absurd. Sandro tries to calm her with an embrace.
SANDRO: Good. It's better if it were absurd. That would mean nothing much can be done about it.
CLAUDIA: But just think the very same things you had said to her who knows how many times. maybe even just before we left, while I was waiting outside your place.
SANDRO: So, even if I did say them, I was sincere with her, as I am now with you. Moved by Sandro's remark, Claudia lifts her head and looks deeply into his eyes. The statement reveals him as being someone quite different from the person she had imagined him to be, and at the same time, it opens up for her a new way of looking at things. Shaking his head, and with much tenderness, he says:
SANDRO: I have never seen a woman like you, who needs to see everything so clearly.
MAN: Excuse me, but would you mind pulling that cord for me?
MAN: Thank you.
SANDRO: At one time, all these houses were convents.
SANDRO: Look! What a fantastic scene! What movement, what disorder! They were very much concerned with scenographic effects. an extraordinary sense of liberty.
SANDRO: Really, I've got to stop this business with Ettore. I would like to go back and start working on my own projects again. You know, I had many ideas.
CLAUDIA: And why did you drop them?
SANDRO: Once they gave me a job to draw up an estimate for the construction of a school. It took me only a day and a half to finish it, and I got paid six million lire. Ever since then I've been doing estimates for other people's becomes aware of it.
SANDRO: Why are you looking at me like that?
CLAUDIA: I'm sure you'd be able to design some very lovely things.
SANDRO: I don't know about that. And then, who's interested in beautiful things nowadays?
SANDRO: Claudia, let's get married?
CLAUDIA: ( astonished ) What! Get married?
SANDRO: Yes. We'll get married. You and I. What do you What do I say? What can I say? No. At least, not yet. I don't know. I can't even think of it. at a time like this. Oh, but why did you have to ask me?
CLAUDIA: What do I say? What can I say? No. At least, not yet. I don't know. I can't even think of it. at a time like this. Oh, but why did you have to ask me?
SANDRO: You look at me as though I had said something And are you sure you want to marry me? Are you really sure.that you want to marry. me?
CLAUDIA: And are you sure you want to marry me? Are you really sure.that you want to marry. me?
SANDRO: That's why I asked you.
CLAUDIA: So. Oh, how I wish that everything were so much simpler. that people could just come together by the color of their hair or the size of their shoes. What size shoe do you wear? Size 9. That's a very lovely size. But I'm sorry, I wear size 8.
SANDRO: Are you ready?
CLAUDIA: ( ironically ) But why am I so infatuated with you?
SANDRO: ( smiling ) Hurry up now, or it'll begin to get hot Yes, yes, yes, yes. Right away.
CLAUDIA: Yes, yes, yes, yes. Right away.
SANDRO: ( leaving ) Okay. I understand. See you later.
CLAUDIA: And you leave me here all alone. in this hotel room.
SANDRO: As soon as you're ready, you can come down and catch up with me. I'll be waiting for you right outside on the square.
CLAUDIA: ( teasingly ) Very well. But you must first tell me that when you go out without me it's like going out without one of your legs. Go ahead, have a look around the town all by yourself, but you'll have to hobble along on only one leg. And you must also tell me that you are filled with a great desire to embrace my shadow on the walls. Then you must tell me. ( suddenly her tone of voice You must tell me that you love me.
SANDRO: But you know it already. Why must I tell you?
CLAUDIA: So, you wonder why?
SANDRO: Then I'll see you later.
CLAUDIA: Okay. In a few minutes.
SANDRO: It's closed. Isn't there any custodian or caretaker inside?
COACHMAN: ( apathetically ) Nobody there.
SANDRO: But it says it's open from 9:30 to 10:30., and it's ten o'clock now. That's a fine way to greet tourists.
COACHMAN: Tourists? Last year a few Frenchmen came here and they all walked around in their bathing suits. So they were made to understand that it was better if they didn't come at all.
SANDRO: Are you the custodian?
CUSTODIAN: Yes, come right in.
HOTEL MANAGER: Go ahead, keep right on singing.
HOTEL MANAGER: ( to Claudia ) Excuse me for interfering, but I've heard about that girl. Here in this place one gets to know about everything. That girl you're looking for. Why don't you try asking at the youth hostel in Pergusa? Almost all the young girls traveling through here end up there.
CLAUDIA: I was just coming out to meet you. How come you're back so soon?
CLAUDIA: Sandro .What's the matter?
SANDRO: takes off his jacket and throws it on a chair. Then he walks over to the window and closes the shutters. Then, without saying a word, he turns to Claudia, grabs her in his arms and squeezes her. Claudia smiles, and playfully yells "Ouch!" Then he goes to kiss her but Claudia tries to resist but doesn't succeed. This little struggle stimulates Sandro and is enough to make him forget all reserve. He drags Claudia on to the bed and forces her to lie down.
CLAUDIA: No, Sandro. Please.
SANDRO: No reason why.
CLAUDIA: No reason why.
CLAUDIA: What's the matter with you?
CLAUDIA: Sandro, wait a moment, just one moment. You seem like an entirely different person .
SANDRO: And aren't you pleased?. That way you'll have a new kind of adventure.
CLAUDIA: What are you saying?
SANDRO: I was only joking, really. Can't I make a joke? And now you've got to tell me why you don't want to.
CLAUDIA: Oh, Sandro. I want everything you do. But.
SANDRO: But what?
CLAUDIA: Did the hotel manager speak to you about that place nearby?
SANDRO: Yes, she started to but I didn't feel like staying to listen to what she had to say. If we had to listen to everybody.
CLAUDIA: No, Sandro. We should go. Besides, we haven't been in touch with anybody. Not even with Anna's father. We should have at least sent a wire or telephoned. let's be fair, he must be feeling awfully lonely.
SANDRO: I don't doubt it. But at a time like this we're the least suitable persons to be with him. And as far as telephoning him. Who knows where he Come, let's go. Pack your things, and I'll get mine ready too.
CLAUDIA: Come, let's go. Pack your things, and I'll get mine ready too.
PATRIZIA: Well, I'm looking for somebody else and who do I find but you.
CLAUDIA: How are you?
CLAUDIA: Shouldn't we try to find a quieter place?
PATRIZIA: Quieter? Oh, yes, of course.
PATRIZIA: You look so wonderfully tanned.
PATRIZIA: And here's Sandro. Why don't you two go upstairs and change?
SANDRO: Yes, we will.
PATRIZIA: Did you manage to find good rooms?
SANDRO: They didn't seem too good.
PATRIZIA: You should have told Ettore. He always manages to get what he wants.
SANDRO: Ettore must be fed up with me by now.
PATRIZIA: Oh, no, not at all. And then you know very well that he'll forgive you anything; just as long as you admit to him that you're a worse driver than he is.
CLAUDIA: How do you manage to put up with all this confusion? You always said people bore you.
PATRIZIA: You shouldn't always take me seriously. Actually, I'm used to it by now. First my mother and now my husband; both of them are like dynamos.
SANDRO: Your mother?
PATRIZIA: Yes, even I had a mother. She was part Austrian, but she was still my mother. My childhood was like a tennis match; they bounced me back and forth, here and there.
CLAUDIA: My childhood, instead, was a very sensible one.
PATRIZIA: What do you mean by sensible?
CLAUDIA: It means being without money.
PATRIZIA: See you soon, then.
SANDRO: ( commenting under his breath ) You see? Just like a robot.
SANDRO: Come in.
CLAUDIA: Sandro, listen. Try not to get yourself too involved tomorrow.
SANDRO: Aren't you going to change?
CLAUDIA: You said you wanted to quit working for Ettore.
SANDRO: Sure, that's what I said.
SANDRO: Wow, it's ice cold.
CLAUDIA: Sandro, I'm not coming down.
SANDRO: I'm too sleepy.
CLAUDIA: I'm too sleepy.
SANDRO: Sleep is something one must learn to overcome. I learned how to do it when I was a child. I never slept. And I had friends who even slept less than I did. The one who went to bed first, paid a penalty. And we really didn't do anything. After seeing a movie, we'd go to a cafe and discuss things for a while. then we'd sit down on a bench somewhere. listen to some drunkard. watch them putting up posters or manifestoes.or look at the sheep passing by. or go for a stroll around the market place. Or else we'd go and wake up some girl in the neighborhood by standing in front of her window and calling out her name.
SANDRO: You're that sleepy, eh? What time do expect to get up tomorrow?
CLAUDIA: Late, very late.
SANDRO: Did you know that when I was a boy I wanted to be a diplomat? Can you imagine that! Me, a diplomat? It's strange but I never thought I'd be rich. I saw myself living in a rooming house, full of geniuses.
SANDRO: Instead, I have two apartments, one in Rome and one in Milan. As far as genius goes, it's a habit I've never formed. What do you think of bed and stretches herself out under the covers.
CLAUDIA: I look at things differently. But maybe it's best we talk about it some other time. Do you mind turning off that light over there?
SANDRO: Good night, my love.
CLAUDIA: Good night. Tell me that you love me.
SANDRO: I love you.
CLAUDIA: Tell me once more.
SANDRO: I don't love you.
CLAUDIA: ( smiling ) I deserve it.
SANDRO: That's not true. I love you.
ETTORE: Well, finally. Come, I'll introduce you to my I want to take a look around first. I'll join you later.
SANDRO: I want to take a look around first. I'll join you later.
ETTORE: Say, I hope it's understood that starting tomorrow morning, I'll need to have you around. If you don't give me some figures to work with, how can I proceed?
CLAUDIA: Patrizia. Patrizia . Where's Ettore?
PATRIZIA: I imagine he must be inside sleeping.
CLAUDIA: Would you please see if Sandro is with him? He's not in his room. I'm sorry to disturb you.
PATRIZIA: What is it?
ETTORE: What is it?
PATRIZIA: Nothing, nothing at all. I was just looking for Sandro.
ETTORE: And you expect to find him in here? Go and ask Yes, yes, of course. She returns to her room.
PATRIZIA: Yes, yes, of course. She returns to her room.
CLAUDIA: Patrizia, I'm afraid.
PATRIZIA: More or less, we are all afraid. Especially at I'm afraid that Anna has come back. I feel she's back, and that they're together.
CLAUDIA: I'm afraid that Anna has come back. I feel she's back, and that they're together.
PATRIZIA: But what's gotten into you?. We would have known. Sandro must be out in the garden somewhere, taking a breath of fresh air, or watching the break of dawn. It would be a lovely surprise indeed if he turned out to be the sentimental type.
PATRIZIA: Now, listen. For God's sake, try not to let yourself become obsessed with that idea. Go to your room and get back into bed.
CLAUDIA: Just several days ago, the thought of Anna being dead would have made me sick. And now, I don't even cry, I'm afraid she might be alive. Everything is becoming so damned simple and easy, even to deprive one's self of pain and You should never wish to get melodramatic over Yes, you're right. I'm sick and tired of being like that.
PATRIZIA: You should never wish to get melodramatic over Yes, you're right. I'm sick and tired of being like that.
CLAUDIA: Yes, you're right. I'm sick and tired of being like that.
