WALTER: I want my fucking Zippo now!
ROSA: Walter, that is a behavior.
WALTER: ( raking his nails against Fuck you!
ROSA: And you are making a choice.
ROSA: ( to Walter ) Hold on.Hello?
WALTER: Don't you get it yet, Waldo? She's making a choice not to give you your lighter because you'll torch the Self-Help library again.
KYM: Don't you get it yet, Waldo? She's making a choice not to give you your lighter because you'll torch the Self-Help library again.
WALTER: I'm Walter. Kill anybody recently? Run anybody over with a fucking
ROSA: ( to Kym ) That them?
KYM: Yes. Finally.
WALTER: You're not letting her get behind the wheel are you? Are you?
ROSA: Walter, you are only responsible for yourself. ( To Kym ) This is all your stuff?
KYM: You know you never gave me your cell number.
ROSA: ( sotto ) It was a mistake. I'm lucky I didn't get fired. We've discussed this. ( She offers her hand ) Good
KYM: Oh my god. Here you are. I thought you were going to abandon me in rehab. It's 12:30. You guys are half an hour late. I've been standing here with these lunatics. You look so great.
PAUL: Hello. I'm Paul Buchman.
ROSA: I'm Rosa. We met last time you came Of course, of course.
PAUL: ( doesn't remember ) Of course, of course.
KYM: Let's go, let's go. Where is
KYM: ( loudly ) Hey Carol. How are ya?
CAROL: Hello Kym.
KYM: So where's Rachel? Carol, where's
CAROL: Getting everything ready at the There is so much going on at the house I can't tell you. You know your sister's doing all of it My sister is bending the environment to her will? Really?
PAUL: There is so much going on at the house I can't tell you. You know your sister's doing all of it My sister is bending the environment to her will? Really?
KYM: ( eyeing the rearview My sister is bending the environment to her will? Really?
PAUL: No wedding planners or anything like that. Just her and Sidney and a lot of their friends. She is so thrilled you're here. Is that everything, sweetheart?
KYM: ( distractedly, rifling Yah. Can we go?
CAROL: Is there anyone you want to say goodbye to?
KYM: God no.
KYM: So are all these busy young wedding helpers staying at the house? Because after eight months of constantly revolving cell mates and crazy people.
PAUL: You weren't in a cell, Kym.
KYM: .AND groups groups GROUPS.
PAUL: .And nobody was crazy, nobody was in a rubber room.
KYM: .I was looking forward to a little privacy for once.
CAROL: The only extra person staying at the house is Emma, who's actually been staying in your old room. But she can move, I guess.
KYM: Rachel and Emma. Oh, great. How The only two people on the planet less capable of delegating than Hannibal! On the eve of a wedding! It's a nightmare so bad it's in Rachel must be totally freaking out. Is she too tense?.
CAROL: It's a nightmare so bad it's in Rachel must be totally freaking out. Is she too tense?.
PAUL: It's a nightmare so bad it's in Rachel must be totally freaking out. Is she too tense?.
KYM: Rachel must be totally freaking out. Is she too tense?.
PAUL: She's a wigwam!
KYM: ( right on top of him, .Is she eating? Or are all her latent food issues rearing their heads? Is she hoarding Snickers and Cool Whip under the bed like in high school? She never did put that one to sleep.
PAUL: ( genuine ) I don't think that that's a problem for her.
KYM: No offense, Dad, but you never thought that was a problem for her. I'm kidding. It'll be great to see her. Foodies are the worst, though. They never get it together. There were six of them on my floor in the hospital and you could never get into the bathroom. They would cry at the chocolate pudding and one of
PAUL: You'll see her and Andrew at the rehearsal dinner tonight.
KYM: Can we stop at the 7/11 please? I feel nauseous. I need something to I brought you a Diet Coke.
CAROL: I brought you a Diet Coke.
KYM: I prefer Pepsi from the fountain.
COUNTER GIRL: I saw you on COPS.
KYM: I'll do it, Dad.
KYM: Oh my god, you are just mi-nute!
RACHEL: ( to Kym ) You can't smoke in here I have pins all over me. You look I'm fat. Rehab makes you fat. All the vending machines. Look at you, missy! I'd swear to god you were puking again!
EMMA: ( to Kym ) You can't smoke in here I have pins all over me. You look I'm fat. Rehab makes you fat. All the vending machines. Look at you, missy! I'd swear to god you were puking again!
KYM: I have pins all over me. You look I'm fat. Rehab makes you fat. All the vending machines. Look at you, missy! I'd swear to god you were puking again!
RACHEL: I have pins all over me. You look I'm fat. Rehab makes you fat. All the vending machines. Look at you, missy! I'd swear to god you were puking again!
KYM: I'm fat. Rehab makes you fat. All the vending machines. Look at you, missy! I'd swear to god you were puking again!
RACHEL: ( To Rachel ) No seriously, you're so tiny it's like you're Asian. Dad wants us to sleep in the same room so you'll be able to watch me while he's asleep and I won't sneak out of the house and blow dealers and shoot heroin.
EMMA: ( To Rachel ) No seriously, you're so tiny it's like you're Asian. Dad wants us to sleep in the same room so you'll be able to watch me while he's asleep and I won't sneak out of the house and blow dealers and shoot heroin.
KYM: ( To Rachel ) No seriously, you're so tiny it's like you're Asian. Dad wants us to sleep in the same room so you'll be able to watch me while he's asleep and I won't sneak out of the house and blow dealers and shoot heroin.
RACHEL: Dad did not say "blow dealers."
KYM: I told him I'd just sleep in Ethan's room.
RACHEL: You can always shoot up in the tree
EMMA: Kym, I'm not remotely surprised you're starting your drama already, however it's Rachel's wedding and this week it's about her.
KYM: Emma, you still have your tiny core of rage! What a relief.
KYM: So are you an actual shrink yet? Even though you're like twelve years old?
EMMA: Psychology. Not psychiatry. You know the difference, right?
KYM: You should prescribe something soothing for Emma. Like Vicodin.
RACHEL: I will have my PhD. in a year and a half. And psychologists don't get prescription pads, right Kym?
KYM: They do in Guam.
RACHEL: Would you please put that out? Emma designed this dress and there's forty-seven yards of it and I'll go up like the Hindenburg.
KYM: ( over the flushing toilet ) Since when are you a designer, A while.
EMMA: A while.
RACHEL: She has this great little boutique in Greenwich. She says things like "you need a fabulous jersey pant."
KYM: That's so great. I think I heard that. Isn't this your fifth incarnation or something? Weren't you an actress? All the N.E.D.'s in the hospital were actresses.
EMMA: Non-specified Eating Disorder.
RACHEL: Non-specified Eating Disorder.
KYM: .they were constantly doing leg lifts under the sheets.
RACHEL: Angela Paylin is coming to the I ate so much cookie dough and did so many whip-its with Angela I know. And she confessed to you her secret Elvis Stoyko fantasy. I spied on you.
KYM: ( right on top of her ) I ate so much cookie dough and did so many whip-its with Angela I know. And she confessed to you her secret Elvis Stoyko fantasy. I spied on you.
RACHEL: I know. And she confessed to you her secret Elvis Stoyko fantasy. I spied on you.
KYM: Oh my god.
EMMA: Elvis Stoyko the figure skater?
RACHEL: In her fantasy, she was wearing her hair up and very serious, responsible eyeglasses, because she was a world renowned judge at the Winter Olympics for Men's Figure Skating. And Elvis Stoyko was skating in the finals to "Could It Be Magic" for the gold medal. And just when Barry Manilow is singing "Now/ Now/ Now and hold on fast." there's this electric connection between them and he stops in the middle of his triple lutz.axel.
KYM: And he skates over to the judges table, all panting and sweaty, with his spangly Neil Diamond shirt open to the chest.
RACHEL: There is silence as he stops in front of her, their eyes lock, and he reaches for her hand. and Angela takes it!
KYM: To the roar of the crowd and the shock of the Olympic judges!
RACHEL: And he gets disqualified but he doesn't care!
EMMA: Where'd she get the skates from?
KYM: I should call her right this second. Is she really coming? Who are all these energetic young people decorating the house?
EMMA: She's got everyone she knows pulling elf duty.
KYM: ( squinting at her ass ) What about me? What am I doing?
KYM: Well, I think you'll be assisting on floral detail. I want everything all drippy and luxurious and Mom's a little bit tasteful
RACHEL: Well, I think you'll be assisting on floral detail. I want everything all drippy and luxurious and Mom's a little bit tasteful
KYM: Mom's in charge of flowers?
RACHEL: and I don't want to upset her.
EMMA: ( to Kym ) And you're such a diplomat.
KYM: I am. I'm like Kofi Annan. In rehab they said I was the maternal hub of my peer group. I was always the referee for softball.
KYM: I was. I was the only one who could convince the methamphetamine freaks that no one was chasing them when they ran around the bases.
EMMA: It's softball. Someone was chasing Whatever. They have trust issues in the first place. I'm going downstairs to find Olive and get some unconditional love.
KYM: Whatever. They have trust issues in the first place. I'm going downstairs to find Olive and get some unconditional love.
KYM: Anyway, I'm doing some lighting. I already got the candles and
KYM: Speaking of dawgs, when am I going to meet this fiancee of yours He went to get stuff with Kieran. They'll be back.
PAUL: I'm making hot dogs and hungabungas! Who wants what?!
RACHEL: It's too hot!
EMMA: I don't eat gluten, Paul!
PAUL: What don't you eat?!
EMMA: Where's Kym? Besides I'm in my dress!
PAUL: Where's Kym? Besides I'm in my dress!
KYM: Besides I'm in my dress!
RACHEL: Besides I'm in my dress!
PAUL: Ooo! Can I see?!
PAUL: Okay, okay!
PAUL: Kymmie, what can I make you?
KYM: Actually there's a meeting I have to make. And I have to pee in a cup. And register as a general I'll drive you.
PAUL: I'll drive you.
KYM: ( heading downstairs ) Just tell me which car I should
KYM: Which car?
PAUL: Would you do me a favor, Kymmie.?
KYM: I have a license.
PAUL: You wouldn't believe my insurance. And I'm not. that comfortable. Could we figure something else out?
KYM: 14 INT. COMMUNITY CENTER RECEPTION AREA. DAY. 14
KYM: Hello? Hello?
KYM: Hi. I'm here to pee in a cup.
NURSE: ( over her shoulder ) She needs to pee in a cup. ( back to Kym ) Someone will be right with you.
KYM: Okay. I'm trying to get to a The meetings are over in the other I know that.
NURSE: The meetings are over in the other I know that.
KYM: I know that.
NURSE: Someone will be right with you. Have a seat.
KYM: 16 EXT. COMMUNITY CENTER. DAY. 16
KYM: 17 INT. COMMUNITY CENTER MEETING ROOM. DAY. 17
KYM: ATTRACTIVE GUY
COCKSUCKER!: ATTRACTIVE GUY
ATTRACTIVE GUY: Only once. My dealer. I was really
ATTRACTIVE GUY: Let's see.that was Tuesday.
PAUL: Carol, she's here!
KYM: Where did you think I was?
PAUL: I made you a sandwich, sweetheart!
RACHEL: 22 EXT. BUCHMAN BACKYARD. DAY. 22
RACHEL: No. You guys are not getting my design concept.
SIDNEY: Oh. I thought you said Satan Claus.
KIERAN: I thought she said Panty Hose. Or Panda Claws.
EMMA: Pandas are endangered.
RACHEL: I know. We're having an endangered Panda fleeing for its life for the ice sculpture. Or impaling itself on some bamboo. Kym! This is Sidney Williams, my betrothed. Sidney, meet my sister, Kym.
KYM: Oh my god. You're black. Sorry I called him a dawg.
RACHEL: That's fine.
SIDNEY: No biggie.
KYM: You don't look like a record producer. You're supposed to have a hapless lackey next to you with an Usually I do, but Mom's out simonizing my car. Funny, you don't look like Lucifer's Cupbearer.
SIDNEY: Usually I do, but Mom's out simonizing my car. Funny, you don't look like Lucifer's Cupbearer.
KYM: ( fingering a lock of hair ) I got a haircut.
RACHEL: And this is Best Man Kieran.
KYM: Hi there.
KIERAN: Hi there.
KIERAN: Well, that was so wrong
KYM: Gee, thanks!
KIERAN: No, believe me, that was so lovely, LOVELY! But in the program as you know and we just heard earlier today in fact
KYM: It is kind of lurid, isn't it? The best man and the maid of honor. furtively slipping off to the coal bin to have it off while the rest of the wedding party labors away at preparations for the big event.
KIERAN: I thought.isn't Emma going to be playing that role?
KYM: "Maid of Honor"?
KIERAN: "Maid of Honor"?
KYM: I think I heard that was the plan.
KIERAN: I think I heard that was the plan.
RACHEL: Isn't the lilac fabulous? You look like a freesia.
KYM: ( to Rachel ) I love the grey.
EMMA: We're all wearing lilac.
KYM: ( heedless, grabbing the Look at this. I love this. It's like a cloud.
KYM: You guys know how I am. I never wear lilac.
EMMA: It's good to have a principle.
RACHEL: You wore a lilac sweater with a cat face on it on the cover of Seventeen Magazine when I was at Fat Camp.
KYM: Sure, but I got paid for that and I was on horse tranquilizers. So why aren't I the Maid of Honor? Why is Emma the Maid of Honor?
RACHEL: ( CONTINUED )
KYM: What does that mean?
RACHEL: I wasn't entirely sure when you were coming or even if you'd make
RACHEL: I wasn't sure if you'd have time for a fitting.
KYM: Bullshit. It's a sari. You take a bolt of cloth and wrap it around you. Jesus Christ I've been home one day and I can't get a straight answer out of anybody.
RACHEL: What are you talking about?
KYM: I'm talking about Dad offering me food every ten seconds.
RACHEL: Dad offers Irish Hunger Strikers food every ten seconds.
KYM: No. He has to know where I am and what I'm doing all the time because he has never resolved his own trust That's odd.
EMMA: That's odd.
KYM: Shut up.
EMMA: Blow me.
RACHEL: Oh, leave Dad alone.
KYM: I'd love to but he won't let me. I feel him watching me all the time. And Carol and you guys too.
EMMA: I know I have nothing better to think about.
KYM: Everybody's looking at me like I'm the visiting sociopath. What are you people waiting for me to do? Burn the house down?
KYM: That was a mattress fire and it wasn't even at home! It was on a sleep over! God! I should just get HAZMAT tattooed on my forehead for you people.
RACHEL: Stop! You're like a harpy. Is being my "Maid of Honor" this important to you? I didn't think you gave a How could you fucking say that to Jesus. Emma!
KYM: How could you fucking say that to Jesus. Emma!
RACHEL: Jesus. Emma!
EMMA: Emma, would you be horribly offended and hurt if I asked you to step down as. ."Maid of Honor?"
RACHEL: Emma, would you be horribly offended and hurt if I asked you to step down as. ."Maid of Honor?"
EMMA: ( CONTINUED )
KYM: Now Emma's got another reason to hate me. Like she needed one.
EMMA: Is it what you want?
RACHEL: Not really.
EMMA: Fine. The crown is yours, First Runner Up.
KYM: Thank you, Emma. No, thank you.
EMMA: It's not about you.
KYM: It's about sisterhood.
EMMA: Hooray for sisterhood.
KYM: Sisterhood conquers all.
RACHEL: And bludgeons all and pillages all and leaves all for dead.
KYM: ( returning to mirror ) So the gray is not an option?
INTO: 26 INT. UKRAINIAN MUSEUM DINING HALL. NIGHT. 26
KYM: I don't know anybody at what's obviously the loser end of the table. Can I have your Chana
RACHEL: You've known most of those people since the eighth grade. You always pretend you don't know people.
EMMA: Is it because you owe them money?
KYM: Where's Mom? Where's our mother? How could she not be here already? I haven't even seen her since I've been home.
SIDNEY: She called a few times. She's "running a little late but should be here soon."
KYM: ( stuffing naan in her
GOD!!!!: She tries to catch a piece of Fish Tikka in her mouth and
EMMA: Kieran would you like some more Saag Paneer?
KIERAN: No thanks. Is there any krill?
KIERAN: Just kidding.
KYM: I can't believe Mom would be late for my release back into the wild.
EMMA: And here I was thinking tonight was about Rachel!
SIDNEY: Rach, I forgot to tell you, Carol got the helium tanks.
KYM: The words "Carol" and "helium" Aren't there some rules about helium tanks?
RACHEL: Aren't there some rules about helium tanks?
KYM: ( snorting ) She wouldn't have any idea what to do with a helium tank.
SIDNEY: Only on public property. I think.
K?: Huge liability.
KIERAN: Huge liability.
KYM: You're a lawyer?
KIERAN: Was. For about five minutes.
KYM: Say something legal.
KIERAN: So what do you do now?
KYM: So what do you do now?
KIERAN: I help Sidney out with the business side of his stuff.
KYM: Here's Mom.
RACHEL: Here's Mom.
ABBY: ( to Rachel, embracing ) Hello, darling.
ABBY: Kym! Did you get my note?
ABBY: You look beautiful.
KYM: I'm fat. Rehab makes you fat.
ABBY: Nonsense. You girls.
ANDREW: Hiya Kym. You look great! Hey
RACHEL: Mom, where have you been? Is everything okay?
KYM: Wow. We were wondering if you got the dates scrambled.
ABBY: Yes, everything is absolutely fine Thank god. What a relief! Now the party can really get started.
KYM: Thank god. What a relief! Now the party can really get started.
KYM: ( lighting a cigarette ) So Mom, you look great.
ABBY: Darling, can you smoke that in It's a private party, Mom. How's grandma? Still surly and Oh, you know how she is. She sends her love.
KYM: It's a private party, Mom. How's grandma? Still surly and Oh, you know how she is. She sends her love.
ABBY: Oh, you know how she is. She sends her love.
KYM: Great. Same.
ABBY: Honey, you should really put that out. It's not right. You know that.
KYM: 27 INT. UKRAINIAN MUSEUM DINING HALL. NIGHT. LATER. 27
KIERAN: ( something like ) I've known Sidney most of my life. He personifies many of life's grandest cliches, even as he breathes fresh life into most of them. He has never, ever "ceased to amaze me," and only in the best of ways. The magnitude of his artistry and his business acumen are matters of public record and delight. He's been a great friend "through thick and thin," and sometimes it's gotten very, very thin but he "stood by me" at all times, so it is my privilege and honor to stand by him on this profound occasion. You're paying for that, Emma.
RACHEL: You're paying for that, Emma.
EMMA: Of course. I'd like to make a toast to the happy couple because I want to come visit them in Hawaii.
SIDNEY: Humuu-humuu Nukku-nukuu.
KIERAN: ( CONTINUED )
KYM: ( sharply, to her sister ) You're moving to Hawaii?
RACHEL: Sidney's recording studio is there.
EMMA: I've known the bride her entire life. Not biblically, except for that one time we french kissed at Evan Yassky's party in the ninth Film! I want film!
SIDNEY: Film! I want film!
EMMA: Commence embarrassing story.
RACHEL: That wasn't it?
EMMA: Rach, do you remember the time I was teaching you to drive in the Wagoneer and you sideswiped that taxi driver and knocked off his side mirror?
RACHEL: I have no memory of that Do you remember trying to outrun him and leading him on a high speed chase across 96th street?
EMMA: Do you remember trying to outrun him and leading him on a high speed chase across 96th street?
RACHEL: Gotta say no.
EMMA: Well I would like to share with everyone that Miss Rachel-before she got her license or even had any idea how to drive- out maneuvered an irate, screaming cab driver across 96th street to the East river, handily avoiding two EMT guys loading an old lady on a gurney, while at the same time, applying Cocofudge Lip Gloss in the rearview mirror.
EMMA: Wait, wait. She actually got the number of one of the E.M.T guys and went out with him. Twice.
KYM: ( loudly ) Was that the guy with the peroxide
EMMA: Anyway, when the taxi driver finally caught up with us, Rachel talked him down from his Middle Eastern fury in pretend Farsi, and ended up using his radio thing to call his dispatcher and recommend this guy for a commendation.
RACHEL: Mahamoud! Such a nice man.
EMMA: We were driving so fast! It was one of the more exhilarating moments in my life.sadly.but I knew that Miss Rachel would make it okay. So here's to you, my dear, dear friend. A woman who can drive fast, pick up a paramedic, make up languages and get you home in one piece. Sidney, you are a lucky Hear hear.
SIDNEY: Hear hear.
RACHEL: Where? Where?
KYM: ( for the crowd ) Relax, it's seltzer.
KYM: ( to anyone, examining her I'm exhausted. Is there any Let me see.
CAROL: Let me see.
RACHEL: ( To Kym, as if she's Nice apology.
KYM: ( again, making a joke out Nice apology.
RACHEL: ( again, making a joke out Nice apology.
KYM: I was toasting you and I was making amends. It's one of the Steps. It's I know what the Steps are.
RACHEL: I know what the Steps are.
RACHEL: I learned them in school, and I've visited you in various facilities,
KYM: Oh, god. Dad?
RACHEL: Amends. Noun. Often followed by 'for'. Offset a disability or frustration by development in another direction.
KYM: ( exaggerated ) You've never said anything to me, that's remotely apologetic. Yet, all of a sudden, at my wedding dinner, in front of everybody, you decide to grace us all with your Christ. I just got here.
RACHEL: You've never said anything to me, that's remotely apologetic. Yet, all of a sudden, at my wedding dinner, in front of everybody, you decide to grace us all with your Christ. I just got here.
KYM: Christ. I just got here.
CAROL: Here. Anybody else?
RACHEL: "Hey everybody! And guests! Just in case you might be thinking about something else for five minutes, like, I don't know, my sister's wedding they just cut me loose!
KYM: ( chewing ) You're so cynical. Dad, since when has she been this cynical?
PAUL: She's making an effort, Rachel.
RACHEL: An effort. That's what it was? Because I think she presumes that since everything has always revolved around her disease, everything else is going to revolve around her recovery. That's what I Rachel. She just got home.
PAUL: Rachel. She just got home.
RACHEL: I had no idea you were so angry, I'm not.
KYM: I had no idea you were so angry, I'm not.
RACHEL: I'm not.
PAUL: Kymmie, your sister's got a lot on her plate. She's uptight about.
RACHEL: I'm not uptight, Dad.
PAUL: She's meeting Sidney's folks for the first time, there's menus, there's all that live music, you're home, there's a thousand things to worry about.
CAROL: Absolutely, a wedding will take it right out of you, boy.
PAUL: Yeah, it would be so lovely if we could all just.
KYM: ( removing seeds ) You people need to purge. You people really should go to Nar-Anon or something. I mean it.
CAROL: Oh my lord. Kym, we have gone through Nar-Anon, baby. You know You people? You mean the people in this room? Your family?
RACHEL: ( turning her head ) You people? You mean the people in this room? Your family?
KYM: All of you people living in this little world of judgement and paranoia and mistrust. I can feel it every second. At the slightest sign of ingratitude or absence of atonement it's like the freaking Salem Witch Trials around here. I might as well be.
PAUL: ( pouncing ) Don't even start.
CAROL: ( standing next to her Nobody can make you feel any way unless you let them, Kym.
KYM: Thank you Carol, for your inevitable pearl of wisdom, but you people are my family. You people make me feel like shit a hundred times a day. You try living under Dad's constant monitoring for five minutes and see how you like it.
PAUL: What constant monitoring?
KYM: "I'll drive you!" "Carol, she's back!" "Don't sleep here, sleep there." "Here. Eat this." Dad, you're obsessed.
RACHEL: Please. That's hardly news. You may not know this.sure you do.the only way to engage Dad in any meaningful communication is to start the conversation with your name. "Have you heard from Kym? How's Kym?" It resuscitates him. It jars him into the moment. Like an That's unfair, Rachel. And completely untrue.
PAUL: That's unfair, Rachel. And completely untrue.
RACHEL: And she's even worse! "Dad, you're never going to believe this, but I lost the car again." "Dad, you're never going to believe this, but that check you sent me never showed up and my landlord hates me." "Dad, can somebody meet me downstairs with cab fare and you're never going to believe this but I need to go to the emergency room and my neighbor's suing me and my checkbook got stolen!"
KYM: Gee, Rach, sounds like you have some paternal/sibling issues to work through.
RACHEL: Are you kidding? The two of you are like a double helix of crises. In the language of psychology one could say you both suffer from acute boundary issues.
PAUL: Rachel! It's nice that you're getting your Ph.D
RACHEL: ( she throws up her hands. ) Oh god
PAUL: but don't be patronizing. It's ugly. It doesn't become you.
RACHEL: How come she gets to spout off about paternal issues, but god forbid I should even reference the "boundary thing," even though I actually know what I'm talking Hello? By the way? I'm not in crisis. I haven't been in crisis for a year.
KYM: ( waving her arms ) Hello? By the way? I'm not in crisis. I haven't been in crisis for a year.
RACHEL: You just got out of rehab!
KYM: Why is this so difficult for you people to understand? It's like you're not happy unless I'm in some kind of desperate situation. You have no idea what to do with me unless I'm desperate. God. Why am I the only one who's willing to say this stuff?
RACHEL: Oh, poor you. You're so much more evolved in your suffering. You know what? Your suffering is not the most important thing in the world to everybody!
KYM: Dead silence. Everyone stares at Rachel. Rachel looks at Sidney. Sidney passes the look right back to her.
PAUL: Dead silence. Everyone stares at Rachel. Rachel looks at Sidney. Sidney passes the look right back to her.
RACHEL: I'm pregnant.
EVERYBODY: Congratulations! Oh my god! Etc!!!
KYM: That is so unfair!
PAUL: ( ecstatic ) When did you find out?
SIDNEY: Roughly about the day before we decided to get married.
RACHEL: I can barely believe it myself!
PAUL: ( laughing, mushing
RACHEL: We told her at dinner.
SIDNEY: She was so happy
KYM: Wait! Stop! You can't just drop that tectonic bit of information into a completely separate conversation, Rachel. You can't do Kym, you're going to have a niece!
RACHEL: Kym, you're going to have a niece!
SIDNEY: Or a nephew!
KYM: Oh, god. Of course I'm happy for you. But you can't tell me when we're talking like this. It's a total set-up!
RACHEL: I am so fucking exhausted.
KYM: Dad, will you tell her I'm happy for her?
RACHEL: I just.I need to go to bed. Yeah, okay. Great idea. I'm beat You're leaving? In the middle of this conversation?
SIDNEY: Yeah, okay. Great idea. I'm beat You're leaving? In the middle of this conversation?
KYM: ( to Rachel ) You're leaving? In the middle of this conversation?
RACHEL: ( CONTINUED )
PAUL: Kymmie, she's pregnant. She's Of course. Fair enough. I'm off to raid the medicine cabinet.
KYM: Of course. Fair enough. I'm off to raid the medicine cabinet.
SIDNEY: She's not serious?
CAROL: Oh, Rachel darling, and Sidney, I couldn't be happier.
SIDNEY: She wasn't serious, was she?
PAUL: Do either of you want anything? A sandwich? You must be hungry. There's cold Saagwala and a little Aloo Gobi left over?
RACHEL: No thanks, Dad. I really am pretty You're pretty everything!
PAUL: You're pretty everything!
CAROL: Holy cow. What a day. I think I've aged. I mean it. Would you mind if I went to bed, Of course not. I'll be up, Carol. I'm just going to load the
PAUL: ( kissing her again ) Of course not. I'll be up, Carol. I'm just going to load the
CAROL: Let me help, it'll be quicker.
PAUL: Don't mess with the King.
CAROL: Hands in the air, Carol leaves the room.
KIERAN: Wow. That's it for me too, you guys. Good night everybody.
KIERAN: Congratulations, man.
SIDNEY: Thanks, my friend.
RACHEL: I've never been so tired in my
RACHEL: Yes, sweetheart?
PAUL: Yes, sweetheart?
RACHEL: I hope it's okay, I told Mom at dinner. About the baby.
PAUL: Of course, lamb chop. I'm so happy! I'm going to be a grandpa!
RACHEL: I wish Ethan were here.
PAUL: I know, sweetheart. Me too.
KYM: That was such a set-up.
KIERAN: She probably didn't realize she was doing it.
KYM: Ha! She's such an operator. Now I'm the bad guy again. Or still.
KIERAN: They're lucky to have you.
KYM: Thank you! Otherwise they'd have to pay attention to their own suspicious lives. Nobody actually wants me to actually change, you know. What would they obsess about? I'm like a blessing.
KIERAN: ( laughing ) No argument from me.
KYM: Dad had an actual "Blueprint for Rehabilitative Success" at my last intervention. On graph paper. He goes all out with the response, my Not unlike this great nation in which we live.
KIERAN: Not unlike this great nation in which we live.
KYM: Meanwhile an ex-heterosexual ex-boy friend of mine actually rang the door once and tells my mother, "Kym is sitting in her apartment? With the shades drawn? Doing all this heroin and cocaine? And I think she's going to, like, die?" And Mom smiles and says "Thank you" like he was speaking in Sanskrit.
KIERAN: You can't actually speak in Exactly! I nodded out into the poached salmon at Dad's wedding two years ago and he told Carol he thought it was jet lag.
KYM: Exactly! I nodded out into the poached salmon at Dad's wedding two years ago and he told Carol he thought it was jet lag.
KIERAN: I did that in soup once. It made such a mess.
RACHEL: Look how exquisite this is. I can't borrow this. What do you carry in here? A vital organ? A tiny spleen?
ABBY: Isn't it divine? It was grandma's. She sends her love.
RACHEL: I love the color. It's oyster.
ABBY: You must promise me you'll stay healthy now, Rachel. You'll eat properly and get a lot of rest?
RACHEL: Yes, Mom.
ABBY: How are things going at the house? How's Sidney?
RACHEL: And his friend? What's his name?
ABBY: And his friend? What's his name?
RACHEL: He seems to be a big hit. Is your sister behaving herself?
ABBY: He seems to be a big hit. Is your sister behaving herself?
RACHEL: I'm not exactly sure what that Well, she needs a lot of You think?
ABBY: Well, she needs a lot of You think?
RACHEL: You think?
ABBY: Stop. It can't be easy. Everybody knowing her troubles.
RACHEL: Mom, she's sold syndication rights to her troubles.
ABBY: Mom, does it bother you at all, Carol doing so much wedding stuff?
RACHEL: Mom, does it bother you at all, Carol doing so much wedding stuff?
ABBY: Not at all, darling, I'm thrilled to be providing the flowers. You know how much that means to me. They're going to be exquisite!
RACHEL: Yes, I'm sure, and that's so great and so you, but you can do whatever else you want, you know. I'd love Thank you, my sweetheart. I just know I'd be one of those wedding mothers who goes completely insane about the hors d'oeuvres. Andrew says I shouldn't be allowed near a shrimp puff.
ABBY: Thank you, my sweetheart. I just know I'd be one of those wedding mothers who goes completely insane about the hors d'oeuvres. Andrew says I shouldn't be allowed near a shrimp puff.
RACHEL: There are so many other people for you to worry about.
ABBY: There are so many other people for you to worry about.
RACHEL: You're right.
ABBY: But this is going to be the most beautiful wedding ever. And I hope your sister has a wonderful time too.Anyway I'm going to be a grandmother! Hooray!
RACHEL: I'm so excited. I have always wanted to be a grandmother. Even when I was thirty. Here. This ring was grandma's and she wanted you to have it.
ABBY: I'm so excited. I have always wanted to be a grandmother. Even when I was thirty. Here. This ring was grandma's and she wanted you to have it.
RACHEL: Is she dead?
ABBY: It's beautiful. Thanks, Mom. I hope it's a boy.
RACHEL: It's beautiful. Thanks, Mom. I hope it's a boy.
ABBY: As long as it's healthy. Try the ring on.
ABBY: You've always had the most beautiful hands.
KIERAN: Your hand is on the turf.
KYM: What turf?
KIERAN: The turf. The table.
KYM: So we have to do it over now. It was your shot and you get to do it What are you talking about?
KIERAN: So we have to do it over now. It was your shot and you get to do it What are you talking about?
KYM: What are you talking about?
KIERAN: Don't tell me you didn't know having one hand on the turf makes the play null.
KYM: Null. Maybe we should just play Sometimes playing next to each other is easier than playing Who told you that?
KIERAN: Sometimes playing next to each other is easier than playing Who told you that?
KYM: Who told you that?
KIERAN: My mom. She runs a pre-school.
KYM: What's Hawaii like?
KIERAN: You've never been?
KYM: Uh uh.
KIERAN: It's beautiful. I've got a nice place. My horse lives there.
KYM: Most people say "my girlfriend lives there" or "my wife lives I live there and so does my horse. He's very possessive. We're working through it.
KIERAN: I live there and so does my horse. He's very possessive. We're working through it.
KYM: Have you had him a long time?
KIERAN: Yes. I may be a degenerate dope fiend but I love my horse. I don't have a wife or a girlfriend and I've been clean almost seven years. You could just ask, you know. Your sister doesn't ask direct questions either. She's incredibly cryptic.
KYM: That's a shrink thing, not a genetic thing.
KYM: We were in the park. I was sixteen and I was.I had taken all these Percoset. I was unbelievably high.
PAUL: Carol, they're back! Are you hungry? I made a Salad Nicoise. It's got Tuna!
PAUL: ( shouting from the porch ) Are you hungry? I made a Salad Nicoise. It's got Tuna!
KIERAN: ( shouting back ) I was just thinking Salad Nicoise!
RACHEL: Can we get back to what we were doing, please?
PAUL: All right. Where were we? Ah yes.The Rosenzwiegs. Can you please put the Rosenzwiegs somewhere far away from me?
RACHEL: They're your friends, Dad.
PAUL: They're not my friends. I've just known them my entire life.
SIDNEY: Just so you know, my mother expects to be carried in by liveried servants to the triumphant swirls of the harp and seated on a solid gold throne forged by nuns.
RACHEL: Really? Because right now I have her shoveling kelp in the laundry room. But I have it as a montage.
KYM: Where are you putting me? In the Kym, stop it. You're at the family
PAUL: Kym, stop it. You're at the family
KYM: ( heedless ) Don't put me with Michael and They're not invited.
RACHEL: They're not invited.
KYM: Sandy never called me back after I sent her an amends e-mail from Milestones. I hate it when people don't meet you half way.
PAUL: The family table. With us.
WIDER: Oops. That's nine. I thought you were having tables of eight?
EMMA: Oops. That's nine. I thought you were having tables of eight?
RACHEL: ( pointedly ) I am.
KYM: ( to anyone, her eyes still Where are you putting me?
RACHEL: I was thinking of putting you with Cookie Puss and the Chicago cousins because they always get really drunk and need wrangling.
KYM: Can someone else do it? I was planning on enjoying myself.
RACHEL: You're the only one they're afraid Still? God.
KYM: Still? God.
PAUL: ( not getting it ) We can move Grandma Rose and her companion. That's actually a great
KYM: That's all I need. Another reason for Grandma Rose to hate me.
PAUL: She doesn't hate you.
KYM: She's still mad about that thing at the Rite Aid.
PAUL: CLOSE SHOT Rachel moves the Monopoly Dog to another table. Paul looks at
KYM: CLOSE SHOT Rachel moves the Monopoly Dog to another table. Paul looks at
CLOSE SHOT: Rachel moves the Monopoly Dog to another table. Paul looks at
RACHEL: Dad, can I show you something in the kitchen?
PAUL: ( sotto ) Rachel, what is this behavior?
RACHEL: ( same ) I would just like to have a day Have all the days you want. Nobody is taking your day.
PAUL: Have all the days you want. Nobody is taking your day.
RACHEL: Then why are you defending her?
PAUL: Defending her from what? Darling, look, no one's defending any Why are you protecting her?
RACHEL: Why are you protecting her?
PAUL: I don't want her to feel like we don't want her.
RACHEL: Sometimes I don't want her. It's my fucking wedding, don't you get it? I want my table to be perfect.
PAUL: Stop it. She's your sister.
PAUL: Okay. Dishes? I'm going to load the Paul! Paul, listen, I've been thinking about it. I did some preliminary sketches, I'd love to show them to you.
SIDNEY: Paul! Paul, listen, I've been thinking about it. I did some preliminary sketches, I'd love to show them to you.
KIERAN: ( to Carol ) He's not kidding.
SIDNEY: And I think if you move the salad bowls to the upper tier you can get about 10% more stuff in the Hee hee hee.
CAROL: Hee hee hee.
PAUL: Sidney, you're a nice young man. You make a lot of money and the world is your oyster. But you don't know shit about loading a Sir, with all due respect, the mantle has passed.
SIDNEY: Sir, with all due respect, the mantle has passed.
TIME CUT: Sidney has his sleeves up and starts to load.
KYM: What's the time limit?
CAROL: Two minutes.
SIDNEY: Are you comfortable with that, sir? I could spot you thirty seconds.
PAUL: You young people should all go fuck You see Paul, I think your problem lies in lid placement.
KYM: You see Paul, I think your problem lies in lid placement.
CAROL: You see Paul, I think your problem lies in lid placement.
SIDNEY: You see Paul, I think your problem lies in lid placement.
PAUL: Rachel, you're out of the will.
SIDNEY: With a flourish, Sidney presents a beautifully stacked dishwasher. Paul pats his shoulder somberly.
PAUL: Clean out this machine please, boy. So I can break out the whup-ass.
SIDNEY: You know one of the early signs of senile dementia is an obsessive need to organize.
PAUL: Rachel, go fetch me my dart gun.
SIDNEY: I find it touching but ultimately sad when the warriors of yesteryear are reluctant to lay down their plastic containers from Zabar's and retire gracefully.
PAUL: Kieran, how's my time?
KIERAN: You have twenty-five seconds.
PAUL: I need more dishes. You amateur!
SIDNEY: What? No way!
PAUL: Somebody give me some dishes!
KYM: Mom is handling the flowers?
RACHEL: Well, she's growing them and choosing them - but they are being delivered by her people.
KYM: Got it. Wow. Nurturing and growing things from the soil. Textbook, Kym. Can we talk about the candles for a minute? Because
RACHEL: Kym. Can we talk about the candles for a minute? Because
KYM: Yeah, exactly! Candles and rice paper all lit up during the ceremony. It's a way of honoring Ethan, Ethan's. spirit, you know? It will look really nice too, mainly. Millions of little candles all over the place, and one huge rice paper candle - representing Ethan - glowing near the couple. That would be you and Sidney.
RACHEL: Oh my god, no. Don't. Just don't. That would kill Dad. And Mom. And me. And everybody. Please, Kym, please please please don't do that.
KYM: Geez. It was an IDEA. Lighten up, okay? They do that in Japan or India or someplace, okay?
RACHEL: Just drop it, sweetie, okay? Oh my god - fine! Done! It was nothing, okay. It was just an idea.
KYM: Oh my god - fine! Done! It was nothing, okay. It was just an idea.
KYM: Are you getting a manicure?
STYLIST: You don't remember me, do you?
KYM: Rick James' limousine.
STYLIST: Rick James' limousine.
KYM: Oh. My. God.
STYLIST: Rachel, nearby, grimaces.
KYM: I meant to come back. I swear. I even had.Oh god, what was it?
STYLIST: Peanut M God is punishing me.
KYM: God is punishing me.
STYLIST: No, he's blessing me. It's cool: I talked him down.
KYM: ( uncomfortable ) So, how are ya?
STYLIST: I'm okay. You remember we were in the hospital together, right?
KYM: We were.at Milestones?
STYLIST: No. I didn't go to Milestones. I didn't have the coverage. We were on the same floor at Loeb House. That was before you went to Where did you go after that?
KYM: Where did you go after that?
STYLIST: My parents' house. Unemployment. It's all about the coverage, right?
KYM: ( more uncomfortable ) I know. It's so weird.
STYLIST: Listen. Do you remember that exercise where we all had to write down experiences and pass them anonymously to another person?
KYM: "The Human Mirror: Seeing With a Fresh Perspective" Like Secret Santas of despair.
STYLIST: I got yours.
STYLIST: You drew poodles in the margins. I know it's supposed to be anonymous and everything, but you were so brave. The way your uncle abused you and your sister, and how it led to your sister's anorexia, and how you stayed up nights when she was down to fifty pounds holding a mirror to her face to make sure she was breathing. I'll never forget reading that, I swear to God.
RACHEL'S STYLIST: ( to Rachel ) Do you want a tissue?
STYLIST: ( To Kym ) I found it so profoundly inspirational that you could be there for her during your own incredible ordeal. I thank God that you came in here today. I never thought I'd ever have the chance to thank you. It was your strength that gave me the courage to confront my own abuse and help me turn my life around.
KYM: Would you stop?
RACHEL: Don't touch me.
KYM: Don't you think his perspective might be a little skewed?
RACHEL: I never had anorexia. You sure as hell didn't watch over me while I was sleeping and WE DON'T HAVE A
KYM: ( interrupting ) That we know of!
RACHEL: THAT MADE OUR CHILDHOOD A LIVING HELL AND EXPLAINS AWAY ALL OF YOUR SHIT IN ONE FELL SWOOP!.Did you tell them that Dad forced us into a life of prostitution while you were at it?
KYM: ( she stops and tries to
KYM: I wasn't hurting anybody. No one got hurt, Rach.
RACHEL: I'm hurt!
RACHEL: I hate her.
PAUL: You don't hate her.
RACHEL: Don't tell me what I don't hate. I hate, hate the lies. She lied in What do you mean she lied?
PAUL: What do you mean she lied?
RACHEL: She lied to the people who were working with her. Who were trying to help her. She lies to everybody.
PAUL: ( not getting it ) Where is she now?
RACHEL: Where am I now, Dad?
PAUL: Thank god. In here.
KYM: Thanks for abandoning me. I had to take a taxi!
RACHEL: ( disbelieving ) Are you kidding me?
KYM: Why would anything I said or didn't say at the hospital hurt you? It wasn't about you!
RACHEL: Why not? Why wasn't it about me?
PAUL: Dad, stop. Why not? I was hopeful. I was on your side. I still am. Do you have any idea what that means? Do you have any idea how lonely it was with everybody gone into your terrible world? There was nothing left. Everybody was just empty. You think they remembered I was alive or needed anything during your. life? And after all that loneliness and Mom and Dad blaming each other and worrying and death and divorce and that stupid hopefulness and Dad not even being able to listen to music, you were in the hospital, lying about us! Instead of telling the truth about yourself!
RACHEL: Dad, stop. Why not? I was hopeful. I was on your side. I still am. Do you have any idea what that means? Do you have any idea how lonely it was with everybody gone into your terrible world? There was nothing left. Everybody was just empty. You think they remembered I was alive or needed anything during your. life? And after all that loneliness and Mom and Dad blaming each other and worrying and death and divorce and that stupid hopefulness and Dad not even being able to listen to music, you were in the hospital, lying about us! Instead of telling the truth about yourself!
KYM: God, Rachel.
PAUL: Wait a minute. Wait a minute. What's this all about?
RACHEL: Apparently she has a whole history of sexual molestation.
CAROL: Kym, what is your sister saying? Did you say you were sexually Oh Jesus Christ. Not by you! It was a long time ago!
PAUL: Kym, what is your sister saying? Did you say you were sexually Oh Jesus Christ. Not by you! It was a long time ago!
KYM: Oh Jesus Christ. Not by you! It was a long time ago!
PAUL: Were you?
KYM: Why in god's name would you say something like that?
PAUL: Why in god's name would you say something like that?
KYM: It was anonymous! It seemed like a good idea at the time.
RACHEL: Dad, look at me. I'm right here. I'm telling you that after Ethan died I wanted her to get better or just die.
PAUL: And look! She is better!
KYM: Nice, Rachel. Thank you.
RACHEL: ( to Paul ) .And Dad, she was lying and she didn't give a shit about the rest of us. Recovery can't work if you lie. She knows that. I was worthless to her. We all meant nothing to her.
KYM: You're not worthless. You're my sister. I love you guys. I need you guys, but you don't get to sit around for the rest of my life deciding what I'm supposed to be like. You weren't there. You weren't inside my head when I was fucked up and your certainly not there now. You haven't got a clue what I feel.
RACHEL: Kym, you took Ethan for granted. You were high for his life. You were not present for his life. You were high. He was like a pet to you. You drove him off the bridge. And now he's dead.
PAUL: It was an accident.
KYM: Yes! I was stoned out of my mind! Jesus Christ, who do I have to be now? Mother Theresa? Did I use up all the love I'm allowed for this lifetime because I killed our little brother?
PAUL: No, it was an accident!
KYM: I'm sorry! I'm sorry, okay? I'm
PAUL: It was an accident.
ABBY: 49 INT. BUCHMAN HOUSE. PAUL'S STUDY. NIGHT. CONTINUOUS. 49
PAUL: Hello Abby. It's Paul.
ABBY: Hello Paul.
PAUL: Is Kym with you?
ABBY: No. Why? Did she go somewhere?
PAUL: She left the house about an hour To a meeting?
ABBY: To a meeting?
PAUL: She and Rachel had an argument.
ABBY: Oh, dear. The night before her wedding? What was it about?
PAUL: Look, Abby, it doesn't matter. She left the house. She took the car.
ABBY: What was the argument about?
PAUL: I don't know. They were both getting their hair done.
ABBY: You don't know? Well what were they For god's sake Abby! I'm trying to figure out where she went before I call the police!
PAUL: For god's sake Abby! I'm trying to figure out where she went before I call the police!
ABBY: Well, last time you called the police looking for her she was upstairs, asleep in the guest room.
PAUL: She wasn't asleep, she was unconscious! And I'm glad I called the police because it took twenty minutes to wake her up and at least something was being done!
ABBY: Paul, I'm trying to help.
PAUL: You're trying to dismiss She's not a criminal!
ABBY: She's not a criminal!
PAUL: You're disregarding everything I'm saying, and this failure to listen, failure to understand what is right in front of you is exactly why you will never be able.
ABBY: .To help her!
PAUL: .To help her!
ABBY: Maybe that's not what she needs all the time.
PAUL: ( incredulous ) ( stammering ) I mean..I mean maybe she needs us
ABBY: ( stammering ) I mean..I mean maybe she needs us
PAUL: Maybe she needs someone to be watchful and present and in her To trust her
ABBY: To trust her
PAUL: She could hurt herself! She could be lying dead in a ditch somewhere!
ABBY: All right! All right! Stop it!
PAUL: If you hear anything, can I count on you to please call me?
ABBY: ( incredulous ) Can you count on me?.
ABBY: Yes Paul, you can count on me to call if I hear anything.
PAUL: Okay, then.
ABBY: She hangs up.
PAUL: She hangs up.
PAUL: Abby hasn't heard from her.
CAROL: She must feel awful.
KIERAN: ( gently ) Excuse me, but when you're trying to get better there's a lot of pressure in rehabs. when someone isn't ready to take responsibility they create something, like an Uncle Stan, to take responsibility until they're ready.
PAUL: ( hollow ) Well, she's always been creative.
CAROL: I just wish we knew where she was.
SIDNEY: Paul, Would you like me to go out and look for her?
CAROL: You're getting married tomorrow. A hundred people will be here.
KIERAN: I'll go. I'm.I'll go. Any idea where she might have gone?
CAROL: It's the caterer.
EMMA: I'll take it.
KYM: You should call your father.
ABBY: You should call your father.
KYM: In a minute. I need a glass of I've made some tea.
ABBY: I've made some tea.
ABBY: Here darling. Sit down. You look
KYM: When will Andrew be back?
ABBY: Not too late. He's at a dinner.
ABBY: I spoke to grandma today. She sends her love. Is everything all right with the wedding?
KYM: Dad was loading the dishwasher.
ABBY: Dad was loading the dishwasher.
KYM: Dad was loading the dishwasher.
ABBY: Mmm hmmm.
KYM: And I handed him Ethan's bowl with the trains on it by accident.
KYM: Why did you leave me in charge of
KYM: You knew. All of you knew. People told you. I was a junkie.
ABBY: You were sick.
KYM: You know what I was. It's not like there weren't any clues. I stayed in my room for days. I passed out all the time. Where were you, Mom! What were you thinking? Why did you leave me? Why did you leave me in charge of him?
ABBY: You weren't supposed to kill him! You weren't supposed to kill him!
KYM: Abby swings at Kym again and connects. Kym punches Abby right back twice now she is on her Both women stop, terrified, and look at each other.
KYM: Get away!
ABBY: Get away!
PAUL: .I never thought I'd have two little girls. Two little girls running around with their tummies sticking out in their diapers. They used to bite me on the nose, the two of them.
VALET: Um. Hi.
KYM: I'm the Maid of Honor.
VALET: Kym continues her walk toward the house.
VALET: Hey, I know you. I used to work at the dog grooming place.
VALET: Hey, you holding?
PAUL: Oh my lord.
CAROL: Oh my lord.
PAUL: Are you all right?
KYM: I hit Mom.
PAUL: Oh my god is she.
KYM: Not with the car.
PAUL: We need to get you to a hospital.
KYM: I have to get dressed.
PAUL: Look at you! You need to get to a Dad! I'm fine.
KYM: Dad! I'm fine.
PAUL: You can't just vanish. You can't just leave. You have to call. You always have to call.
CAROL: Why don't you go find your sister? She didn't sleep last night waiting for you.
EMMA: ( in a helium voice ) Oh. My. God.
KIERAN: Holy shit. She just showed up. Yes. Thank you. Do you need a doctor?
KYM: You sent out the cavalry?
KIERAN: For your dad. Mostly for your dad.
KYM: I have to get ready. I have to get Okay. I'm so glad to see you.
KIERAN: Okay. I'm so glad to see you.
RACHEL: Aaaah! Fuck!
KYM: I hit Mom.
RACHEL: With the car?
KYM: No. No.
RACHEL: You hit Mom? You hit our mother?
KYM: Rachel yanks the door open again.
RACHEL: I got it.
RACHEL: Can you do this?
RACHEL: 70 EXT./INT. BUCHMAN BACK TERRACE/LIVING ROOM. DAY. 70
JUDGE CASTLE: We're here on this beautiful day.
JUDGE CASTLE: Everybody cracks up, especially Kym. She laughs a beat longer than anybody else.
KYM: ( mumbling ) Excuse me.
SIDNEY: I always just wanted to hear music, and when I met you I heard you. You are the most beautiful thing I've ever heard. Thanks for marrying me.
SIDNEY: For you. And you.ahem.
JUDGE CASTLE: On that note, and with the power vested in me by the state of Connecticut and Neil Young, I now pronounce you husband and wife.
SIDNEY: Is this mocha? Or chocolate?
MRS. WILLIAMS: Baby Boy, let them take the Okay, Mom.
SIDNEY: Okay, Mom.
RACHEL: Yeah, Baby Boy.
RACHEL: Can we all do this together?
RACHEL: With nowhere else to stand, Abby lays her fingers lightly on Kym's wrist. Emma's AUNT JOYCE, a cool professional photog,
SIDNEY: Dear God, bless this family and let them always invite us for dinner because my new wife can't boil water or fry an egg. La Chaim.
EVERYONE: La Chaim. Friends and family, family and friends! I have an announcement to make! I'm the bride and I'm knocked
RACHEL: Friends and family, family and friends! I have an announcement to make! I'm the bride and I'm knocked
RACHEL: I'm exercising my bridely, knocked up prerogatives and demand that
RACHEL: Oh yay! Dad c'mon. C'mon Dad! This is my favorite song!
PAUL: Ooo. Look at me, I'm dancing.
KYM: ( Beat. ) I had an accident.
ABBY: And, how are you, Bob?
BOB: God, never better Isaac opened his practice!
DISTINGUISHED NEIGHBOR: ( eyeing Kym's injuries If you're in need of any legal I don't know if you remember this but you owe me $750.
KYM: Sorry.I'm not sure.
DRUMS CRESCENDO: Carol and Paul watching, laughing. Andrew whispering in Abby's ear. She just stares off.
DRUMS STOP!!!: ( CONTINUED ) CUT TO:
NEIGHBORHOOD GIRL: ( to Kym ) I can do a handstand!
KYM: That sucked.
KYM: The girl laughs and runs off.
KYM: ( to Rachel ) Hi. Where's Mom?
RACHEL: Taking a break.
KYM: How can you take a break from your own daughter's wedding?
RACHEL: Mom doesn't actually participate in And anyway, she hasn't even done anything all day.
KYM: And anyway, she hasn't even done anything all day.
RACHEL: I was thinking about getting her a cat. Cats are really annoying. At some point you have to deal with them, right? Or they starve to death and piss on your sheets.
KYM: It's so nice here.
KIERAN: You can run but you can't hide!
RACHEL: ( totally into it ) Stop! Stop you fiend!
KYM: The ceiling light flicks on overhead and Abby enters the living room. Blinking against the light, Rachel struggles to her feet smoothing her dress.
RACHEL: The ceiling light flicks on overhead and Abby enters the living room. Blinking against the light, Rachel struggles to her feet smoothing her dress.
RACHEL: Here you are.
ABBY: Here you are.
SIDNEY: ( from the floor ) Hello Abby. You're lovely. And I'm not looking up your skirt.
ABBY: I've been looking for you all over the place.
ABBY: I'm in here.
ANDREW: They're bringing the car around.
ABBY: All right.
RACHEL: You're leaving?
ABBY: Darling, I'm exhausted. I had such a marvelous time. Those dancers were so beautiful. But weddings are really for young people.
RACHEL: You could make a little scene.
ABBY: And here I am making it. Andrew and I are going to Washington in the Why are you going to Washington?
KYM: Why are you going to Washington?
ABBY: It's the mother of all fund raisers at American. I thought I mentioned it. We're going to stay on about a week - there are lots of meetings. I thought since you two are going away soon. .and I'm sure you don't want any grown ups around checking up on you.Will you still be here when I get back?
RACHEL: What about our post-nuptial wedding gossip reconnaissance, Mom?
ABBY: Well, can you come by early?
RACHEL: Of course you don't want to do that. It's your wedding night. You don't want to get up early. I have to get Andrew organized. He's hopeless. And we'll be back in a bit. It was such a lovely wedding, darling.
ABBY: Of course you don't want to do that. It's your wedding night. You don't want to get up early. I have to get Andrew organized. He's hopeless. And we'll be back in a bit. It was such a lovely wedding, darling.
RACHEL: Wait! I want my mother and my
ABBY: Rachel wraps one arm around Kym's neck and the other round her mother and hugs them both to her. She has her eyes open.
ABBY: Will you call me every day
RACHEL: Yes. Of course.
ABBY: All right, then.
SIDNEY: Goodbye Abby.
ABBY: Good bye, Son-in-law.
SIDNEY: ( horrified ) I saw your mother's underwear. I can't find my cigarettes.
KYM: I can't find my cigarettes.
PAUL: Kymmie. Speak of the devil. You remember Susanna Galeano.
KYM: ( she doesn't ) Hi Kym.
SUSANNA: Hi Kym.
PAUL: Susanna has a public relations firm and she just lost one of her Weddings. They're an epidemic. Your father gave me my start about a hundred years ago.
SUSANNA: Weddings. They're an epidemic. Your father gave me my start about a hundred years ago.
PAUL: No, no. Hardly. Well.
SUSANNA: We could definitely use an extra body right about now. Have you ever thought about Public Relations?
KYM: The public is kind of afraid of me.
PAUL: The firm is opening an office right here in town, just in time for the holidays. You could stay right Have you ever thought about P.R. Logistically it's just a dream. You could stay in your old room. I could chauffeur you around. You wouldn't have to worry about rent.
SUSANNA: Have you ever thought about P.R. Logistically it's just a dream. You could stay in your old room. I could chauffeur you around. You wouldn't have to worry about rent.
PAUL: Logistically it's just a dream. You could stay in your old room. I could chauffeur you around. You wouldn't have to worry about rent.
KYM: Have you already talked to Carol about me staying here?
PAUL: Of course. She's fine about it. You could stay in your old room.
SUSANNA: Why don't you give me a call on Monday, okay?
SUSANNA: Goodbye Paul. It was just beautiful. Bye Kym.
PAUL: Suzy's first rate. P.R. can be You always said it was stupid.
KYM: You always said it was stupid.
PAUL: I meant stupid. Do you want me to hold that for you? You've got no I've got it. Thanks, Dad. I'll be right back.
KYM: I've got it. Thanks, Dad. I'll be right back.
KYM: Oof. You scared me.
KIERAN: Making a break for it?
KYM: Yeah. I have to go. I was coming to find you.
KIERAN: You don't have to slip away without making any noise, you know? I like I was coming to find you. My ride's .Okay.If you need anything.
KYM: I was coming to find you. My ride's .Okay.If you need anything.
KIERAN: .Okay.If you need anything.
KYM: If I need to post bond?
KIERAN: No. If you ever need anything.
KYM: Thank you, Kieran.
KIERAN: Maybe you'll come visit me in That would be nice.
KYM: That would be nice.
KYM: I have to go. Bye.
KYM: ( unbelievably softly and
ROSA: ( whispering ) Will you tell Dad?
RACHEL: ( whispering ) Will you tell Dad?
KYM: ( whispering ) Will you tell Dad?
KYM: I love your baby!
RACHEL: Me too.
KYM: ( quietly )
THE END: Writers : Jenny Lumet
