RAISING ARIZONA: Screenplay by
VOICE OVER: My name is H. I. McDunnough.
A WALL: With horizontal hatch lines.
VOICE OVER: .Call me Hi. A disheveled young man in a gaily colored Hawaiian shirt is launched into frame by someone offscreen. He holds a printed paddle that reads "NO. 1468-6 NOV. 29
VOICE OVER: .The first time I met Ed was in the county lock-up in Tempe, As his picture is taken.
FLASH: As his picture is taken.
CLOSEUP: On the paddle: "NOV. 29 79."
VOICE OVER: .a day I'll never forget. A bellowing male voice from offscreen:
SHERIFF: Don't forget the profile, Ed!
WOMAN: Turn to the right.
HI: What kind of name is Ed for a pretty thing like you?
ED: Short for Edwinna. Turn to the right! HI obliges, but still looks at Ed out of the corner of his You're a flower, you are. Just a little desert flower.
HI: You're a flower, you are. Just a little desert flower.
FLASH: On his eye-skewed profile.
HI: Lemme know how those come out.
VOICE OVER: I was in for writing hot checks which, when businessmen do it, is called an overdraft. I'm not complainin', mind you; just sayin' there ain't no pancake so thin it ain't got two sides. Now prison life is very structured - more than most people care for.
INTERCUTTING: HI'S POV of the MOPPING CON, tracking as he approaches, and the Mopping Con's POV of Hi as Hi approaches.
VOICE OVER: .But there's a spirit of camaraderie that exists between the men, like you find only in combat maybe. The Mopping Con snarls as Hi passes:
CON: VOICE OVER .or on a pro ball club in the heat of a pennant drive.
VOICE OVER: .or on a pro ball club in the heat of a pennant drive.
NEWSREEL FOOTAGE: A ballplayer connects - THWOCK - for a home run and the crowd PRISON HALL Panning a circle of men who sit facing each other in folding chairs. The pan starts on Hi.
PRISON HALL: Panning a circle of men who sit facing each other in folding chairs. The pan starts on Hi.
VOICE OVER: In an effort to better ourselves we were forced to meet with a counselor who tried to help us figure out why we were the way we were. At this point the pan has reached the COUNSELOR, an earnest, bearded young man who straddles a folding chair with his arms folded over its back. He is addressing one of the Cons:
COUNSELOR: Why do you use the word "trapped"?
CON: Why do you say you feel "trapped" in a man's body?
COUNSELOR: Why do you say you feel "trapped" in a man's body?
CON: He bites his lip, thinking; then, in a resonant bass voice:
CON: .Well, sometimes I get the menstrual cramps real hard.
CHAIRMAN: Have you learned anything, Hi?
HI: Yessir, you bet.
WOMAN: You wouldn't lie to us, would you No ma'am, hope to say.
HI: No ma'am, hope to say.
CHAIRMAN: Okay then.
VOICE OVER: I tried to stand up and fly straight, but it wasn't easy with that sumbitch Reagan in the White House. Hi is getting out of the Chevy in a Hawaiian shirt, holding a pump-action shotgun.
VOICE OVER: .I dunno, they say he's a decent man, so. He primes the shotgun - WHOOSH - CLACK - and heads for the .maybe his advisers are confused.
VOICE OVER: .maybe his advisers are confused.
FLASH: Full-face exposure of Hi once again in front of the mug-shot Hi obliges but shoots sympathetic glances at Ed who is obviously upset, wiping away tears and snuffling behind the
ED: Turn to the right! Hi obliges but shoots sympathetic glances at Ed who is obviously upset, wiping away tears and snuffling behind the What's the matter, Ed?
HI: What's the matter, Ed?
ED: My fai-ants left me.
VOICE OVER: She said her fiancée had run off with a student cosmetologist who knew how to ply her feminine wiles.
FLASH: On Hi's profile. He turns back to Ed.
HI: That sumbitch.
HI: You tell him I think he's a damn fool, Ed. You tell him I said so - H.I. McDunnough. And if he wants to discuss it he knows where to find As another police officer starts to lead him away:
HI: .in the Maricopa County Maximum Security Correctional Facility for CLOSE ON ED Looking up through her tears as Hi is led away.
HI: .I'll be waiting! The door slams.
VOICE OVER: I can't say I was happy to be back inside, but the flood of familiar sights, sounds and faces almost made it feel like a homecoming.
CON: PRISON HALL Group is meeting again.
PRISON HALL: Group is meeting again.
COUNSELOR: Most men your age, Hi, are getting married and raising up a family. They wouldn't accept prison as a Hi looks sheepish.
COUNSELOR: .Would any of you men care to Two convicts sitting next to each other, GALE and EVELLE, appear to be friends.
GALE: But sometimes your career gotta come before family.
EVELLE: Work is what's kept us happy.
VOICE OVER: I tried to sort through what the Doc had said, but prison ain't the easiest place to think.
MOSES: An' when they was no meat we ate fowl. An' when they was no fowl we ate crawdad. An' when they was no crawdad to be foun', we ate San'.
HI: You ate what?
MOSES: ( nodding ) We ate San'.
HI: You ate sand?!
MOSES: Dass right.
CHAIRMAN: Well Boy, you done served your twenty munce, and seeing as you never use live ammo, we got no choice but to return you to society.
SECOND MAN: These doors goan swing wide.
HI: I didn't want to hurt anyone, Sir.
SECOND MAN: Hi, we respect that.
CHAIRMAN: But you're just hurtin' yourself with this rambunctious behavior.
HI: I know that, sir.
CHAIRMAN: Okay then.
HIGH SHOT: Of a 7-Eleven parking lot, at night, deserted except for Hi's car which sits untended, its engine rumbling.
VOICE OVER: Now I don't know how you come down on the incarceration question. Hi backpedals into frame with a shotgun and a bag of cash.
VOICE OVER: .whether it's for rehabilitation or revenge. He spins and grabs his car-door handle. Locked. He tries the back door. Locked.
VOICE OVER: .But I was beginning to think. As we hear the wail of an approaching siren, Hi takes it on the heel and toe.
VOICE OVER: .that revenge is the only argument makes any sense.
FLASH: On Hi against the mug-shot wall.
ED: Turn to the right!
VOICE OVER: They say that absence makes the heart grow fonder, and for once they may be right. Halfway up the corridor Hi points casually at the floor.
HI: You missed a spot. The Mopping Con turns to watch him recede.
CON: HIGH ANGLE CELL Same high shot with Moses on the top bunk, Hi on the lower.
VOICE OVER: More and more my thoughts turned to Ed, and I finally felt the pain of An' momma would frow the live crawdad in a pot of boiln' water. Well one day I decided to make my own We begin to crane down to tighten on the absently staring .an' I frew it in a pot, forgettin' to put in the water, ya see. Moses' voice is mixing down as we lose him from frame.
MOSES: An' momma would frow the live crawdad in a pot of boiln' water. Well one day I decided to make my own We begin to crane down to tighten on the absently staring .an' I frew it in a pot, forgettin' to put in the water, ya see. Moses' voice is mixing down as we lose him from frame.
VOICE OVER: .an' I frew it in a pot, forgettin' to put in the water, ya see. Moses' voice is mixing down as we lose him from frame.
VOICE OVER: .and it was like I was makin' popcorn, ya see. The joint is a lonely place after lock-up and fights We are now very close on Hi, staring.
VOICE OVER: .when the last of the cons has been swept away by the sandman.
HI'S POV: The underside of the top bunk. A sudden flash whitens and fades to leave the image of Ed, smiling behind her camera, softly supered on the underside of the bunk.
VOICE OVER: But I couldn't help thinking that a brighter future lay ahead - a future that was only eight to fourteen months Eyes closed, he is illuminated by a flash.
CHAIRMAN: Got a name for people like you, Hi. That name is called recidivism.
SECOND MAN: Ree-peat O-fender.
CHAIRMAN: Not a pretty name, is it, Hi?
HI: No Sir, it sure ain't. That's one bonehead name. But that ain't me You're not just tellin' us what we wanna hear?
CHAIRMAN: You're not just tellin' us what we wanna hear?
HI: No Sir, no way.
SECOND MAN: 'Cause we just wanna hear the truth.
HI: Well then I guess I am tellin' you what you wanna hear.
CHAIRMAN: Boy, didn't we just tell you not to do that?
HI: Okay then.
CHAIRMAN: Okay then.
TRACKING: Over Hi's shoulder as he strides toward a door marked "Processing" and flings it open. It is the familiar booking room. Ed looks up from her camera, having just snapped a picture of another suspect against the hatched wall.
HI: I'm walkin' in here on my knees, Ed - a free man proposin'. Hi cocks a finger at the suspect.
HI: Howdy Kurt.
ED'S ROOM: As she nervously frets at her white bridal gown in front of a mirror.
VOICE OVER: And so it was.
ED: I do.
HI: You bet I do.
REVERSE: Over their shoulders, the minister.
MINISTER: Okay then.
FLASH: On the newlyweds smiling at the camera.
FLASH: On the newlyweds smiling at each other, profile to the camera.
VOICE OVER: Ed's pa staked us to a starter home in suburban Tempe.
VOICE OVER: .and I got a job drilling holes in sheet metal. Next to him idly stands Bud, a veteran of the shop, with a grimy face and a pair of goggles pushed up on his forehead.
BUD: So we was doin' paramedical work in affiliation with the state highway system-not actually practicin', y'understand - and me and Bill's patrollin' down Nine Mile -
HI: Bill Roberts?
BUD: ( barking ) No, not that motherscratcher! Bill Parker! Anyway, we're approachin' the wreck, and there's a spherical object arestin' on the highway. He pauses to blow and pop a bubble with his chewing gum.
BUD: .And it don't look like a piece a the car.
VOICE OVER: Mostways the job was a lot like prison, except Ed was waitin' at the end of every day.
CASHIER'S WINDOW: Hi is scowling at his paycheck. Behind the barred window a fat cashier grins.
VOICE OVER: .and a paycheck at the end of every Gummint do take a bite, don't she?
CASHIER: Gummint do take a bite, don't she?
VOICE OVER: These were the happy days, the salad days as they say. As the sun sets, the light is turning from yellow to amber. Hi and Ed watch, their heads following its slow downward .and Ed felt that having a critter was the next logical step. It was all she thought about. The amber is turning to a more neutral dusky light as the sun has set. Hi and Ed continue to stare at the point where it disappeared.
VOICE OVER: .and Ed felt that having a critter was the next logical step. It was all she thought about. The amber is turning to a more neutral dusky light as the sun has set. Hi and Ed continue to stare at the point where it disappeared.
VOICE OVER: .Her point was that there was too much love and beauty for just the two of us. The dusk is slipping away into darkness.
VOICE OVER: .and every day we kept a child out of the world was a day he might later regret having missed. We are by now holding on pitch black. Crickets chirp. From the darkness:
ED: That was beautiful.
A CALENDAR: Ed is crossing off the last day on the calendar before a day circled in red.
VOICE OVER: So we worked at it on the days we calculated most likely to be INT. TRAILER Hi is wearily entering after a long day at work, clutching his lunchpail.
VOICE OVER: .and we worked at it most other days just to be sure. Ed flies into frame and leaps into his arms, covering him with kisses.
TRAILER BEDROOM: In each other's arms, Hi and Ed roll over on the bed.
VOICE OVER: Seemed like nothing could stand in our way now. We pan with them rolling and continue off them to the night table, on which sits a framed pair of photographs of Hi, probably taken by Ed: One shows him full face, the other in EXT. TRAILER TWILIGHT Ed sits in a lawn chair knitting a booty. Hi stands in Bermuda shorts and an unbuttoned Hawaiian shirt, hosing down the minuscule patch of front lawn.
VOICE OVER: .My lawless years were behind me; our child rearin' years lay ahead.
ADOPTION OFFICE: Hi and Ed are seated on folding chairs facing an agent's desk. Hi wears a sport coat over his Hawaiian shirt. Ed is in her dress blues.
HI: It's true I've had a checkered past, but Ed here is an officer of the law twice decorated.
THE AGENT: Looking, with a dead pan, from the file to Hi.
HI: .So we figure it kind of evens His face still deadly neutral, the agent looks back down at the file and unfolds the accordioned rap sheet, revealing it to be a couple feet long.
VOICE OVER: .But biology and the prejudices of others conspired to keep us childless.
VOICE OVER: Our love for each other was stronger than ever.
ON HI: Driving. He looks from Ed out to the road.
VOICE OVER: .but I preminisced no return of the salad days.
TRAILER BATHROOM: Over Hi's shoulder as he stares listlessly at himself in the mirror, a razor held forgotten in one hand, his face half lathered and half shaved.
VOICE OVER: The pizazz had gone out of our lives.
TRAILER BEDROOM: The bedroom is somewhat messy. Ed sits on the edge of the bed, also staring listlessly. Her police uniform is on but not yet buttoned. Her hands lie palm-up in her lap, like two dead fish.
VOICE OVER: Ed lost all interest in both criminal justice and housekeeping. Soon after, she tendered her badge.
MACHINE SHOP: Once again Hi works as his sweaty gum-chewing colleague stands idly by.
VOICE OVER: Even my job seemed as dry and bitter as a hot prairie wind.
BUD: So here comes Bill a-walkin' down Nine Mile - that's Bill Parker, y'understand - got his sandwich in one hand, the fuckin' head in the ON HI DRIVING Alone in his Chevy. He looks to the side.
VOICE OVER: I even caught myself drivin' by convenience stores.
VOICE OVER: .that weren't on the way home.
VOICE OVER: Then one day the biggest news hit the state since they built the Hoover Ed perks up, reacting to something on TV. Hi notices her reaction and also sloughs off his stupor to watch.
VOICE OVER: .The Arizona quints was born.
THE TV: A newscaster silently reading copy. Behind him news footage of five nurses holding infants mortices in.
VOICE OVER: By "Arizona" quints I mean they was born to a woman named Florence BACK TO HI AND ED Watching intently. Eyes still locked on the set, Ed reaches her hand out to Hi. Eyes still locked on the set, Hi takes her hand in his.
VOICE OVER: As you probably guessed, Florence Arizona is the wife of Nathan Arizona. And Nathan Arizona - well hell, you know who he is.
NATHAN ARIZONA: ( mixing up on the TV ) So come on down to Unpainted Arizona for the finest selection in fixtures and appointments for your bathroom, bedroom, beaudoir!
VOICE OVER: .The owner of the largest chain of unpainted furniture and bathroom fixture outlets throughout the And if you can find lower prices anywhere my name ain't Nathan Arizona!
NATHAN ARIZONA: And if you can find lower prices anywhere my name ain't Nathan Arizona!
VOICE OVER: Yep, Florence had been taking fertility pills, and she and Nathan had hit the jackpot. The businessman takes his newspaper and releases the machine door as he turns to leave. Hi snags the door before it closes and takes his own five- finger discount copy. He flips the paper over to look at the headline.
VOICE OVER: Now y'all who're without sin can cast the first stone. A pull back from the paper shows Hi and Ed reading it together at home. They look from the paper to each other. Hi opens to an inside page and we pan a row of pictures - the five tots with their names underneath: "HARRY, BARRY, LARRY, GARRY and NATHAN JR."
VOICE OVER: .but we thought it was unfair that some should have so many while others should have so few.
BILLBOARD: In the middle of the desert. It reads: "WELCOME TO TEMPE!
VOICE OVER: With the benefit of hindsight maybe it wasn't such a hot idea. Hi gets in the car.
VOICE OVER: .but at the time, Ed's little plan seemed like the solution to all our problems, and the answer to all our The title of the film burns in: "RAISING ARIZONA". A building chord snaps off in a shock cut to:
NATHAN: ( into the phone ) Eight hundred leaf tables and no chairs?! You can't sell leaf tables and no chairs! Chairs, you got a dinette set! No chairs, you got dick! I ask my wife she got more sense!.
NATHAN: .Miles, all I know is I'm away from the office to have me some kids and everything goes straight to heck! I ain't gonna stand for it! Another title is supered below the first: "SEPTEMBER 17, 1985". The baby stops crying and Florence's attention returns to her book.
VOICE OVER: .Yeah, and if a frog had wings he wouldn't bump his ass a-hoppin'! I'm sick of your excuses, Miles! It is As he throws out his wrist to look at his watch a third title is supered beneath the first two: 8:45 p.m.
VOICE OVER: .8:45 in the p.m. I'm gonna be down to the store in exactly twelve hours to kick me some butt! He starts to replace the receiver but brings it back with an .Or my name ain't Nathan Arizona! As he slams the phone into the cradle the titles disappear. Another baby starts crying. Florence looks up at the ceiling.
VOICE OVER: .Or my name ain't Nathan Arizona! As he slams the phone into the cradle the titles disappear. Another baby starts crying. Florence looks up at the ceiling.
NATHAN: That sounds like Larry. Close on the crying baby as Hi bounces it, gently but Shhhh! Shh! Nice baby. He starts to lower it back into the crib. The crib is unpainted with the name of each baby burned Bonanza-style into the headboard: Harry, Barry, Larry, Garry, and Nathan Jr. Instead of quieting as he is lowered into the crib, the squalling baby only sets off one of his brothers. Hi hurriedly lifts him back out. He looks desperately around the room. The room is wallpapered with nursery rhyme characters. There are toys strewn around. There is one adult-sized easy chair in the corner. Hi carries the baby over to the chair, stepping on and reacting to the squeal of a squeeze-me toy on the way. He sits the baby deep in - the chair and then returns to the crib to deal with the second crying baby. He lifts the baby out of the crib and gently bounces it. This baby stops crying. Another one in the crib starts bawling. Hi sets the second baby down on the floor and gives it a rattle to keep it pacified. He reaches for the third baby in the crib. Sweat stands out on Hi 's brow. He is desperately chucking the third baby under the chin when we hear a muffled
HI: Shhhh! Shh! Nice baby. He starts to lower it back into the crib. The crib is unpainted with the name of each baby burned Bonanza-style into the headboard: Harry, Barry, Larry, Garry, and Nathan Jr. Instead of quieting as he is lowered into the crib, the squalling baby only sets off one of his brothers. Hi hurriedly lifts him back out. He looks desperately around the room. The room is wallpapered with nursery rhyme characters. There are toys strewn around. There is one adult-sized easy chair in the corner. Hi carries the baby over to the chair, stepping on and reacting to the squeal of a squeeze-me toy on the way. He sits the baby deep in - the chair and then returns to the crib to deal with the second crying baby. He lifts the baby out of the crib and gently bounces it. This baby stops crying. Another one in the crib starts bawling. Hi sets the second baby down on the floor and gives it a rattle to keep it pacified. He reaches for the third baby in the crib. Sweat stands out on Hi 's brow. He is desperately chucking the third baby under the chin when we hear a muffled
PTHUMP!: He whirls to look across the darkened room. The first baby has dropped off the easy chair and is energetically crawling away toward a shadowy corner.
LIVING ROOM: Nathan and Florence are sitting stock-still, staring at the ceiling. After a moment, another baby starts crying.
NATHAN: What're they, playing telephone? They stare at the ceiling.
NURSERY: Loose babies are crawling everywhere. Hi is skittering across the room in a half-crouch, a baby tucked under one arm, reaching out with the other as he pursues a crawling baby across the room. He hefts the other baby with his free arm and brings the air back to the crib. He turns to look frantically around the room. The other three babies have disappeared. There is perfect quiet. Hi goes over to the closet door, which is ajar, and swings it open. He reaches under a moving pile of clothes on the floor and pulls out a baby. He returns it to the crib and freezes, listening. The sound of a rattle. He drops to the floor to look under the crib.
HI'S POV: The hindquarters of a diapered baby are just disappearing around the corner of the nursery door into the hallway.
LIVING ROOM: Florence and Nathan are staring at the ceiling. After a beat we hear a muffled plop! on the ceiling. A beat later, the bleat of the squeeze-me toy.
NATHAN: .Whyn't you go up and check on They sound restless.
UPSTAIRS HALLWAY: The floor-level wide-angle shot shows a baby crawling toward the camera in the foreground. Behind him, in the background, just rounding the open door from the nursery, yet another baby is making a mad dash for freedom. Hi emerges from the nursery and, stepping around the background baby, trots toward the baby in the foreground. By the time he reaches it the low-angle cropping shows us only his feet and calves.
HI'S POV: The baby and, beyond it, the stairway down to the main floor. We hear footsteps approaching.
NURSERY: As Florence enters from the hallway door. We track back into the room, on her, as she approaches the crib. Halfway there she freezes, staring, in shock.
HER POV: All of the babies have been replaced in the crib but not lying down: They are seated in a row, staring back at her, lined up against the far crib railing, like a small but distinguished panel on "Meet the Press."
ED: What's the matter?! Hi appears at her - the driver's-window.
HI: Sorry honey, it just didn't work He is reaching to open the door but she slaps his hand away from the handle.
ED: What d'you mean it didn't work out?!
HI: They started cryin', then they were all over me. He is trying to open the door, which Ed is holding shut with all her might.
HI: .It was kinda horrifying - Lemme in, honey.
ED: Course they cried! Babies cry!
HI: I know that now! Come on honey, we better leave - Ed is rolling up the window and locking the door.
ED: You go right back up there and get me a toddler! I need a baby, Hi; they got more'n they can handle! Muffled, through the closed window, and very forlorn:
HI: Aw honey I -
ED: Don't you come back here without a Florence is holding one of the babies cradled against her shoulder. She is facing the hallway door; her back is to the crib and window. The baby, peeping out over her shoulder, is facing the window.
NURSERY: Florence is holding one of the babies cradled against her shoulder. She is facing the hallway door; her back is to the crib and window. The baby, peeping out over her shoulder, is facing the window.
BABY'S POV: Of the window, as Hi's head appears in it.
BABY: Looking back, he holds a finger to his lips.
HI: Looking back, he holds a finger to his lips.
BABY: Florence starts bouncing it, patting it on the back.
BABY'S POV: Hi and the window bouncing up and down.
LIVING ROOM: Nathan is leafing through the lingerie ads in the newspaper. We can hear Florence's returning footsteps. Muttering:
NATHAN: Christian Dior my butt. Florence enters.
NATHAN: .They pay money for that?
FLORENCE: Yes dear.
NATHAN: How're the kids?
FLORENCE: Fine dear.
NATHAN: Fuckin' kids, I love 'em. We hear the bleat of the squeeze-me toy. Florence and Nathan look at the ceiling for a beat, then Nathan clears his throat and returns to the newspaper.
CHEVY: Ed sits anxiously waiting in the driver's seat, peering intently through the windshield. As she catches sight of something she breaks into a broad smile, unlocks the door, and slides over to the passenger seat. Hi is opening the door with one hand, cradling a baby in the As he gets into the driver's seat:
ED: Which one ya get? As he gets into the driver's seat:
HI: I dunno. Nathan Jr., I think.
ED: Gimme here. He hands her the infant, then hands her the copy of Dr.Spock's Baby and Child Care.
HI: Here's the instructions.
ED: Oh, he's beautiful! Hi nods as he pulls away from the curb.
HI: He's awful damn good. I think I got the best one. Ed is gushing and kissing the baby through the rest of the I bet they were all beautiful. All babies are beautiful!
ED: I bet they were all beautiful. All babies are beautiful!
HI: Yeah. This one's awful damn good Don't you cuss around him.
ED: Don't you cuss around him.
HI: He's fine, he is. I think it's Nathan We are doin' the right thing, aren't we Hi? - I mean, they had more'n they could handle.
ED: We are doin' the right thing, aren't we Hi? - I mean, they had more'n they could handle.
HI: Well now honey we been over this and over this. There's what's right and there's what's right, and never the twain shall meet.
ED: But you don't think his momma'll be upset? I mean overly?
HI: Well a course she'll be upset, sugar, but she'll get over it. She's got four little babies almost as good as this one. It's like when I was robbin' convenience stores - Ed suddenly bursts out crying.
ED: I love him so much!
HI: I know you do, honey.
ED: ( still sobbing ) I love him so much!
REVERSE: Ed is entering with Nathan Jr.
HI: This is it young Nathan Jr. Just feast your eyes about, old boy!
ED: Don't be so loud around him, Hi.
HI: ( softly ) Damn, I'm sorry honey.
ED: And don't you cuss around him.
HI: Aw, he don't know a cuss word from Well see that he don't.
ED: Well see that he don't.
HI: ( jovially ) He's all right, he is. He reaches for the child.
HI: .Come on over here, Nathan Jr., I'll show you around. He takes the baby in both hands and holds him out at arm's length, pointing him at the various places of interest. The baby looks goggle-eyed at each one.
HI: .Lookahere, young sportsman. That - there's the kitchen area where Ma and Pa chow down. Over there's the TV, two hours a day maximum, either educational or football so's you don't ruin your appreciation of the finer things. This - here's the divan, for sociahzin' and relaxin' with the family unit. Yessir, many's the day we sat there and said wouldn't it be nice to have a youngster here to share our thoughts and feelin's - Impatient with the nonsense:
ED: He's tired, Hi.
HI: Well we'll just sit you right there, He is propping Nathan Jr. up in the corner of the couch. Hi sits at the other corner and Ed sits in a facing chair.
HI: .Just put those dogs up'n take a load off. Hi beams at Nathan Jr. Ed smiles at Nathan Jr. Nathan Jr. looks from one to the other, deadpan. They seem to be waiting for him to contribute to the conversation. Suddenly Hi slaps his knee.
HI: What are you kiddin'?! We got a family Ed is getting up.
HI: .He's a scandal, honey! He's a little outlaw! As she picks up the baby:
ED: He's a good boy.
HI: He ain't too good! You can tell by that twinkle in his eye!
ED: Don't you think we should put him to Hang on, honey. He is frantically reaching for a Polaroid camera.
HI: Hang on, honey. He is frantically reaching for a Polaroid camera.
HI: .Let's us preserve the moment in Just one, okay?. She sits down on the couch with Nathan Jr. as Hi starts screwing the camera into a tripod.
ED: Just one, okay?. She sits down on the couch with Nathan Jr. as Hi starts screwing the camera into a tripod.
ED: .I gotta tell ya, I'm a little Absently, as he sets up the camera:
HI: How come is that, honey?
ED: Well we got a baby, Hi. It's an awful big responsibility. As he peers through the lens:
HI: Honey, could ya slide over a tad and raise the nipper up? As she complies:
ED: I mean we never done this before and I'm kinda nervous.
HI: You're doin' real good, sugar. Hi sits on the couch, holding the camera's cable release. He puts his arm around Ed and smiles at the offscreen camera. Ed nestles her head against Hi's shoulder.
ED: I love you, Hi.
HI: We're set to pop here, honey.
ED: You're gonna help, aren't ya? Through his teeth as he continues to grin at the offscreen How's that, honey?
HI: How's that, honey?
ED: Give Nathan Jr. a normal family background, just quiet evenings at home together. We begin to hear distant thunder.
HI: You can count on it, honey.
ED: .Everything decent'n normal from here on out.
HI: As he squeezes the cable release - FLASH - the image momentarily freezes on Hi beaming, Nathan Jr. staring, and Ed looking at Hi with a little bit of concern.
EVELLE: What is it?
GALE: What is it?
EVELLE: Mercury. Looks nice.
VOICE: Open up! Hi starts awake with a grunt.
VOICE: .Open up in air! He looks up, alarmed.
HI'S POV: The front door of the trailer. Someone is pounding
VOICE: Open up! It's a police!
ED: Hi! What's goin' on?
VOICE: Po-lice, son! Open her up! Hi gets to his feet, hurriedly tosses the Polaroids under a cushion of the couch and takes out a gun.
HI: Get in the bedroom.
ED: They ain't gonna take Nathan?!
HI: Well I'd like to see 'em fly. As Ed turns back to the bedroom:
VOICE: Open up and maybe we'll letcha plea- As Ed enters and shuts the door. She listens hard at the Hi's footsteps cross the living room, the click of the door opening, silence. a burst of raucous male laughter.
BEDROOM: As Ed enters and shuts the door. She listens hard at the Hi's footsteps cross the living room, the click of the door opening, silence. a burst of raucous male laughter.
HI'S VOICE: .Honey! Come on out here! Want you to meet a couple friends of mine!
LIVING ROOM: As Ed enters, carrying Nathan Jr. All three men - Hi, Gale, and Evelle - are beaming at her.
HI: Honey, like you to meet Gale and Evelle Snopes, fine a pair as ever broke and entered. Gale roars with laughter.
HI: .Boys, this - here's my wife.
GALE: Miz McDunnough. Ed smiles politely, then squints at Hi.
EVELLE: Miz McDunnough. Ed smiles politely, then squints at Hi.
ED: Kind of late for visitors, isn't it Well yeah honey, but these boys tell me they just got outta the joint. Gotta show a little hospitality. Gale is admiring the baby.
HI: Well yeah honey, but these boys tell me they just got outta the joint. Gotta show a little hospitality. Gale is admiring the baby.
GALE: Well now H.I., looks like you been up to the devil's bidnis!
EVELLE: That a him or a her?
ED: It's a little boy.
GALE: Got a name, does he? Hi and Ed look at each other uncomfortably. Hi clears his Well so far we just been using Junior.
HI: Well so far we just been using Junior.
ED: We call him Junior.
EVELLE: Say, thairs good - JR., just like on the Teevee. Gale is staring at the streamers and decorations. Reading "Welcome. Home. Son." Where's he Hi and Ed respond simultaneously:
GALE: "Welcome. Home. Son." Where's he Hi and Ed respond simultaneously:
HI: He was, uh. he was visiting his They're separated.
ED: He was, uh. he was visiting his They're separated.
HI: He was, uh. he was visiting his They're separated.
ED: They're separated.
GALE: Was that yer folks ma'am?
ED: No, I'm afraid not.
GALE: I thought yer folks was dead, H.I.?
HI: ( very uncomfortably ) Well we thought Junior should see their final resting place - Whyn't you boys have a seat? As the two men move toward the couch Ed hesitantly pipes up:
ED: Hi, it's two in the morning. She wrinkles her nose.
ED: .What's that smell? We don't always smell like this, Miz McDunnough. I was just explainin' to yer better half here that when we were tunneln' out we hit the main sewer - dumb luck, that - and just followed that to -
GALE: We don't always smell like this, Miz McDunnough. I was just explainin' to yer better half here that when we were tunneln' out we hit the main sewer - dumb luck, that - and just followed that to -
ED: You mean you busted out of jail!!
GALE: We released ourselves on our own What Evelle means to say is, we felt the institution no longer had anything to offer us. He is looking at the baby.
EVELLE: We released ourselves on our own What Evelle means to say is, we felt the institution no longer had anything to offer us. He is looking at the baby.
GALE: What Evelle means to say is, we felt the institution no longer had anything to offer us. He is looking at the baby.
GALE: .My Lord he's cute.
EVELLE: He's a little outlaw, you can see Now listen, you folks can't stay Gale, Evelle, and Hi look up at Ed, dumbstruck. After a beat:
ED: Now listen, you folks can't stay Gale, Evelle, and Hi look up at Ed, dumbstruck. After a beat:
EVELLE: You just can't stay! I appreciate your bein' friends of Hi and all, but this is a decent family now. She looks at Hi.
ED: You just can't stay! I appreciate your bein' friends of Hi and all, but this is a decent family now. She looks at Hi.
ED: .I mean we got a toddler here! Gale leans in close to Hi, a look of sincere concern on his face, and says under his breath:
GALE: Say, who wears the pants round here
H.I.?: Now honey -
HI: Now honey -
ED: Don't you honey me. Now you boys can set a while and catch up, and then you'll be on your way. There is an awkward silence as she leaves and slams the bedroom door. Gale is carefully studying his thumbnail; Evelle stares fixedly at the ceiling. Still looking at his thumb:
GALE: Gotcha on a awful short leash, don't she H.I.?
BEDROOM: Sometime later, as Hi tiptoes in. Ed lies in bed facing the wall; we see only the back of her head. Hi sits gingerly on the edge of the bed and, smiling, sticks a finger through the bars of the crib to play with the baby. The sound of the TV set in the living room filters faintly Hi is momentarily startled, then goes on playing with the Ed finally turns to face him. We hear the two men laugh raucously in the living room.
ED: They still here? Hi is momentarily startled, then goes on playing with the Yeah, they're just gonna stay a day or two. It's raining out honey, they got nowhere to go. Ed finally turns to face him. We hear the two men laugh raucously in the living room.
HI: Yeah, they're just gonna stay a day or two. It's raining out honey, they got nowhere to go. Ed finally turns to face him. We hear the two men laugh raucously in the living room.
ED: They're fugitives, Hi. Hi turns to face her.
ED: .How're we gonna start a new life with them around?
HI: Well now honey you gotta have a little charity. Ya know, in Arab lands they'd set out a plate -
ED: Promise just a day or two.
HI: Tonight and tomorrow, tops.
VOICE OVER: That night I had a dream.
FLASH CUT: For a brief moment we see a wall of flames and hear it roar.
VOICE OVER: .I'd drifted off thinkin' about happiness, birth, and new life.
FLASH CUT: Wall of flames. Deafening roar.
VOICE OVER: But now I was haunted by a vision of -
VOICE OVER: He was horrible. The Biker roars out of frame.
VOICE OVER: .a lone biker of the apocalypse.
VOICE OVER: .a man with all the powers of her at his command. The Biker reaches for his bullwhip.
VOICE OVER: .He could turn the day into night. The Biker cracks the whip and, at the crack: The sky behind him turns instantly to black. Bolts of lightning crackle across it as thunder roars.
VOICE OVER: .and laid to waste everything in his path.
VOICE OVER: He was especially hard on the little CRACK - as the first shotgun spurts orange the foreground rabbit keels over. The Biker slues the other gun around.
VOICE OVER: .the helpless and the gentle CRACK - from afar, the foreground lizard is blown away.
VOICE OVER: He left a scorched earth in his wake, befouling even the sweet desert breeze that whipped across his brow. As the Biker roars away, the foreground flower bends with his draft and then bursts into flame.
VOICE OVER: I didn't know where he came from or We are moving in on his chest, where two crisscrossed bandoliers carry two rows of hand grenades, their silver pins glinting in the sun. We follow the line of one of the bandoliers up to his right shoulder which bears the tattoo: "Mama Didn't Love Me."
VOICE OVER: I didn't know if he was dream or REVERSE TRACK ON BIKER From behind, booming down as we track. We are approaching the crest of a rise.
VOICE OVER: But I feared that I myself had unleashed him.
HIGH SHOT: Of the Biker approaching, craning down as he draws near.
VOICE OVER: .for he was The Fury That Would With the crane down we momentarily lose him from view over the rise; then suddenly - ROAR - he tops the rise and, wheels spinning, is airborne
REVERSE: As he crashes back down to earth in the foreground and roars away. Only now we are no longer in the desert: We are looking down a twilight street at the end of which is the Arizona house.
VOICE OVER: .as soon as Florence Arizona found her little Nathan gone. The roar of his engine and clank of his chains recede as the Biker gradually dissolves into thin air. We are left looking at the empty street and the faraway Arizona house. The receding roar has left behind eerily beautiful singing, a woman singing a lullaby. Faintly, behind the singing, there is also a droning high-pitched noise. The camera starts floating forward very close to the ground, moving slowly toward the Arizona house. The high-pitched drone is becoming less faint under the singing. The camera is accelerating. The drone is growing louder - we can now tell that it is a human scream. As we approach the Arizona house we can see that a ladder is propped up to a second-story window. We are moving quite fast now. The scream all but buries the We are rushing toward the house, toward the base of the ladder, the sustained scream drawing us on. We hurtle toward and then straight up the ladder with no abatement of speed, sucked forward by the deafening scream. We reach the top and hurtle - THWAP! - through the white curtains of the open second-story window into the nursery to reveal Florence Arizona, her back to us, screaming over the We are rocketing toward her. She is turning to us, hands pressed to her ears, mouth stretched wide in an ear-splitting shriek and we are rushing into an extreme close-up of her gaping mouth and her wildly vibrating epiglottis and we
THE BEDROOM: It is now morning. Ed walks back and forth, gently bouncing the baby as she walks. She is singing it a lullaby. Faintly, from the next room, we can hear Gale and Evelle snoring away like buzz saws.
HI: ( groggily ) He all right?
ED: He's all right. He was just havin' a Hi is getting out of bed.
HI: Yeah, well. He crosses to the bedroom window and cracks the venetian blind. Orange light filters in.
HIS POV: Beyond a clothes line and a septic tank, a huge orange ball of sun is rising. We can almost hear the roar of its burning BACK TO HI
HI: .Sometimes it's a hard world for little things.
HIS POV: The orange sun, rumbling, perceptibly rising.
NATHAN: No, the missus and the rest of the kids've left town to I ain't sayin' where. They'll be back here when we're a nuclear fam'ly again.
VOICE: Mr. Arizona, which tot was abducted?
NATHAN: Nathan Jr., I think.
VOICE: Do you have anything to say to the Yeah: Watch yer butt.
NATHAN: Yeah: Watch yer butt.
VOICE: Sir, it's been rumored that your son was abducted by UFOS. Would you care to comment?
NATHAN: ( sadly ) Now don't print that, son. If his mama reads that she's just gonna lose all hope. A POLICEMAN from inside the house is taking Nathan by the We really have to ask you some more questions, sir. As Nathan allows himself to be led back into the house he calls back over his shoulder:
POLICEMAN: We really have to ask you some more questions, sir. As Nathan allows himself to be led back into the house he calls back over his shoulder:
NATHAN: But remember, it's still business as usual at Unpainted Arizona, and if you can find lower prices anywhere my name still ain't Nathan Arizona! We are following the two, hand-held, as the Police leads Nathan toward the living room.
LIVING ROOM: The room is filled with policemen milling about in several different uniforms: local police, state troopers, plainclothes The original Policeman is leading Nathan to a table where a white-smocked technician is preparing inkpad and exemplar The dialogue is urgent, rapid-fire and overlapping.
POLICEMAN: Mr. Byrum here can take your exemplars while you talk. MR. BYRUM has taken Nathan's right hand and is rolling its fingers onto the inkpad.
BYRUM: Just let your hand relax; I'll do the work. Nathan jerks his hand away.
NATHAN: What is this?! I didn't steal the damn kid! Two men in conservative suits are approaching.
POLICEMAN: Sir, these men are from the FBI-
NATHAN: ( bewildered ) Are you boys crazy?! All I know is I wake up this morning with my wife ( patiently ) We just need to distinguish your prints from the perpetrators', if they left any. Giving his hand back:
BYRUM: ( patiently ) We just need to distinguish your prints from the perpetrators', if they left any. Giving his hand back:
NATHAN: Course! I know that!
FBI #1: Sir, we have an indication you were born Nathan Huffhines; is this Yeah, I changed m'name; what of it?
NATHAN: Yeah, I changed m'name; what of it?
FBI #2: Could you give us an indication why?
NATHAN: Yeah, would you buy furniture at a store called Unpainted Huffhines?
FBI #1: All right, I'll get to the point-
UNIFORMED COP: Was the child wearing anything when he was abducted?
NATHAN: No one sleeps nekkid in this house, boy! He was wear-
FBI #1: I'm asking the questions here, If we're gonna put out an APB we need a description of the -
COP: If we're gonna put out an APB we need a description of the -
NATHAN: He was wearin' his-
FBI #2: It's just that we're better trained to intervene in crisis situations What was he wearing?
NATHAN: A dinner jacket! Wuddya think, he was wearing his damn jammies!
FBI #2: ( to cop ) The child was wearing his jammies. Are you happy?
FBI #1: Do you have any disgruntled employees?
NATHAN: Hell, they're all disgruntled! I ain't runnin' a damn daisy farm!
COP: What did the pajamas-
NATHAN: My motto is do it my way or watch your butt!
COP: What did the pajamas-
FBI #1: So you think it might have been an Don't make me laugh. Without my say- so they don't piss with their pants on fire.
NATHAN: Don't make me laugh. Without my say- so they don't piss with their pants on fire.
COP: What did the pajamas look like?
FBI #1: ( pained ) ( bellowing ) I dunno, they were jammies! They had Yodas'n shit on 'em!
NATHAN: ( bellowing ) I dunno, they were jammies! They had Yodas'n shit on 'em!
NATHAN: Get your feet off m'damn coffee table! Also raising his voice at the offscreen bellower:
FBI #1: Ron, you're upsetting the victim. Nathan is getting worked up.
NATHAN: Damnit, are you boys gonna go chase down your leads or are you gonna sit drinkin' coffee in the one house in the state where I know my boy ain't Sir, there aren't any "leads" yet, aside from this coat-
FBI #2: Sir, there aren't any "leads" yet, aside from this coat-
NATHAN: Gimme that! He grabs the overcoat being displayed by FBI #2.
NATHAN: That's a five-hundred-dollar camel's Sir, you might want to wash your hands at this point. Nathan realizes that he's gotten ink from his fingerprinting all over the coat.
BYRUM: Sir, you might want to wash your hands at this point. Nathan realizes that he's gotten ink from his fingerprinting all over the coat.
NATHAN: Well goddamnit! He is rising to his feet and hurling the coat to the floor.
NATHAN: .No leads?! He furiously kicks the coat.
NATHAN: .Everyone leaves microbes'n whatnot! Throughout the speech Nathan stalks the room, working himself into a frenzy, furiously putting coffee cups onto coasters, generally cleaning up, hectoring the police, and swiping their feet off his furniture.
NATHAN: .Hell, that's your forte, trackin' down them microbes left by criminals'n commies'n shit! That's yer whole damn raison d'itre! No leads?! I want Nathan Jr. back, or whichever the hell one they took! He's out there somewhere! Somethin' leads to him! And anyone can find him knows the difference between a lead and a hole in the ground!!
THEIR POV: A jackrabbit is bounding away at the far end of the field.
THE DOGS: After a moment, their attention returns to the hole.
THE BIKER: His attention also returns to the matter at hand. He squints, concentrating. His bike rumbles. Gradually his face sets in a specific direction. We pan down to the tattoo on his shoulder: "Mama Didn't Love Me." His shoulder flexes once or twice as he revs the throttle; then he puts the bike in gear and it roars out of TRAILER KITCHEN CLOSE ON GALE AND EVELLE They are both intently munching cornflakes, staring at something offscreen. After a beat:
EVELLE: .Awful good cereal flakes, Miz THEIR POV Ed is sitting in the living room, bottle-feeding Nathan Jr. She is surrounded by the rumpled sheets and blankets used by the house guests. She does not respond to the ice-breaker. Gale puts his spoon down and picks up a cigarette which has been smoking in the ashtray next to him. There is a bead of milk dribbling down his chin. He takes a contemplative puff, studying Ed.
THEIR POV: Ed is sitting in the living room, bottle-feeding Nathan Jr. She is surrounded by the rumpled sheets and blankets used by the house guests. She does not respond to the ice-breaker. Gale puts his spoon down and picks up a cigarette which has been smoking in the ashtray next to him. There is a bead of milk dribbling down his chin. He takes a contemplative puff, studying Ed.
GALE: .Whyncha breast feed him? You 'pear to be capable.
ED: Mind your own bidnis. Through a mouthful of cornflakes:
EVELLE: Ya don't breast feed him, he'll hate you for it later. That's why we wound up in prison. Gale blows out smoke and picks up his spoon to start back in on his cornflakes.
GALE: Anyway, that's what Doc Schwartz tells us. Hi is walking in, yawning.
HI: Morni', H.I. Sharply, as Hi sits and starts to pour cornflakes into a Hi holds the cornflakes box arrested in mid-air. He looks at Ed, who is motioning to gale and Evelle with her eyes.
EVELLE: Morni', H.I. Sharply, as Hi sits and starts to pour cornflakes into a Hi holds the cornflakes box arrested in mid-air. He looks at Ed, who is motioning to gale and Evelle with her eyes.
ED: Hi holds the cornflakes box arrested in mid-air. He looks at Ed, who is motioning to gale and Evelle with her eyes.
HI: Oh yeah. Say boys, you wouldn't mind makin' yourself scarce for a couple hours this afternoon?
ED: We're havin' some decent friends Gale and Evelle are looking dumbly from Ed to Hi.
HI: Heh-heh. What Ed means to say is, seein' as you two boys are wanted, it wouldn't exactly do to have folks seein' you here - I mean for your own protection.
GALE: Sure H.I.
EVELLE: Anything you say. More relaxed now, to Ed:
HI: Matter of fact honey, maybe I'll skip this little get-together myself, Glen won't mind, and I'll just duck out with the boys, knock back a couple of-uh, Co-Colas-
GALE: Sure H.I.
EVELLE: We'd love to have ya.
HI: .Well. maybe that ain't such a hot idea either. Gale leans back to blow smoke at the ceiling.
GALE: ( bitterly ) So many social engagements. So little WIDE SHOT GAS STATION BATHROOM It is the bathroom where we earlier saw Gale and Evelle combing their hair, now empty. We are looking toward the door. The bathroom is quiet except for the dripping sink, and the faint rumble of an approaching motorcycle. It grows louder, then begins to recede as the bike shoots by the station. Suddenly we hear the screech of the bike's brakes.
HIS POV: Fast track in on the jar of hair jelly sitting on the shelf under the mirror.
HI: Glen, Dot- As the door opens, Dot hops up the stoop shrieking.
DOT: Where's at baby? Where's he at? From behind, Glen gives her an energetic THWOK on the ass.
GLEN: Go find him honey! Dot spins and smacks Glen across the face with her purse. Through clenched teeth:
DOT: Cut it out, Glen! He reels under the blow.
ED: ( quietly ) He's asleep right now. Dot shrieks again, but this time muffles it with her own hand. She tiptoes into the trailer, hand to her mouth. Glen, rubbing his cheek, seems angry at himself.
GLEN: Shit, I hope we didn't wake it!
DOT: Can I just sneak a peek-a-loo? Glen at the top of the stoop, turns out to the yard.
GLEN: Come on kids.
GLEN: .Get away from Mr. McDunnough's TRAILER BEDROOM As Ed and Dot enter, Ed beaming as they go to the crib.
TRAILER BEDROOM: As Ed and Dot enter, Ed beaming as they go to the crib.
DOT: What's his name?
ED: Uh. Hi Jr. Till we think of a better Whyncha call him Jason? I love Biblical names. If I had another little boy I'd name him Jason or Caleb or- Oh! She puts her hand to her forehead, reacting to the baby as if she is about to faint.
DOT: Whyncha call him Jason? I love Biblical names. If I had another little boy I'd name him Jason or Caleb or- Oh! She puts her hand to her forehead, reacting to the baby as if she is about to faint.
DOT: .He's an angel! She hides her face in her hands and looks away as if blinded, then sneaks a look around her hands.
DOT: .He's an angel straight from heaven! Now honey I had all my kids the hard way so you gotta tell me where you got this angel. Did he fly straight down from heaven?
ED: You gonna send him to Arizona State?
DOT: You gonna send him to Arizona State?
HI: Need a beer, Glen?
GLEN: Does the Pope wear a funny hat? Hi considers this.
HI: .Well yeah, Glen, I guess it is kinda funny.
GLEN: Say, that reminds me! How many Pollacks it take to screw up a I don't know Glen, one? Hi looks down. One of Glen's children, in a cowboy hat, is squirting a squirt gun into his crotch area.
HI: I don't know Glen, one? Hi looks down. One of Glen's children, in a cowboy hat, is squirting a squirt gun into his crotch area.
GLEN: Nope, it takes three! He starts laughing, then catches himself.
GLEN: .Wait a minute, I told it wrong. Here, I'm startin' over: How come it takes three Pollacks to screw up a I don't know, Glen.
HI: I don't know, Glen.
GLEN: Cause they're so durn stupid! He laughs; Hi doesn't react.
GLEN: .Shit man, loosen up! Don't ya get Hi looks over at the TV, which the bam-shouting six-year-old is banging with his stick.
HI: No Glen, I sure don't.
GLEN: Shit man, think about it! I guess it's what they call a Way Homer.
HI: Why's that?
GLEN: Cause you only get it on the Way I'm already home, Glen. The kid in the cowboy hat is reaching up to slap Hi on the You wetchaself! Mr. McDunnough wet hisseff, Daddy!
HI: I'm already home, Glen. The kid in the cowboy hat is reaching up to slap Hi on the You wetchaself! Mr. McDunnough wet hisseff, Daddy!
KID: You wetchaself! Mr. McDunnough wet hisseff, Daddy!
GLEN: Say, that reminds me! How'd you get that kid s'darned fast? Me'n Dottie went in to adopt on account of something went wrong with m'semen, and they told us five years' wait for a healthy white baby! I said healthy white baby! Five years! Okay, what else you got? Said, two Koreans and one Negro born with the heart He takes a sip of beer.
GLEN: .Yeah, it's a crazy world.
HI: Someone oughta sell tickets.
GLEN: Sure, I'd buy one. Hi is looking at another child who is just finishing off the T in FART in crayon on the wall. Glen chuckles, looking at his errant child.
GLEN: .That Buford's a sly one. Already knows his ABCs. But I'm sayin', how'd ya get the kid?
HI: Well this whole thing is just who knows who and favoritism. Ed has a friend at one of the agencies.
GLEN: Well maybe she can do something for me'n Dot. See there's something wrong with m'semen. Say, that reminds me! What you gonna call him?
HI: Uh, Ed-Ed Jr.
GLEN: Thought you said he was a boy.
HI: Well, as in Edward. Just like that Yeah, it's a good one. Course I don't really need another kid, but Dottie says these-here are gettin' too big to cuddle. Say, that reminds The sound of shattering glass. Glen looks around.
GLEN: ( not really interested ) Yeah, it's a good one. Course I don't really need another kid, but Dottie says these-here are gettin' too big to cuddle. Say, that reminds The sound of shattering glass. Glen looks around.
GLEN: Mind ya don't cutchaseff, Mordecai.
DOT: .and then there's diphtheria- tetanus, what they call dip-tet. You gotta get him dip-tet boosters yearly or else he'll get lockjaw and night vision. Then there's the smallpox vaccine, chicken pox and measles, and if your kid's like ours you gotta take all those shots first to get him to take 'em. Who's your pediatrician, anyway?
ED: We ain't exactly fixed on one yet. Have we Hi? Hi sits stock-still with a stony face.
ED: .No, I guess we don't have one Dot shrieks.
DOT: Well you just gotta have one! You just gotta have one this instant!
ED: Yeah, what if the baby gets sick, Hi, even if he don't get sick he's gotta have his dip-tet!
DOT: Hi, even if he don't get sick he's gotta have his dip-tet!
ED: He's gotta have his dip-tet, honey. Hi shrugs, then flinches as a piece of jello hits his You started his bank accounts?
HI: You started his bank accounts?
DOT: You started his bank accounts?
ED: Have we done that honey? We gotta do that honey. What's that for, Dot?
DOT: That-there's for his orthodonture and his college. You soak his thumb in iodine you might get by without the orthodonture, but it won't knock any off the college. Hi sits stoically. Dot is looking offscreen:
DOT: .Reilly, take that diaper off your head and put it back on your sister!. Anyway, you probably got the life insurance all squared away.
ED: You done that yet honey?
DOT: You gotta do that, Hi! Ed here's got her hands full with that little angel!
HI: ( dully ) Yes ma'am.
DOT: What would Ed and the angel do if a truck came along and splattered your brains all over the interstate? Where would you be then?
ED: Yeah honey, what if you get run over?
DOT: Or you got carried off by a twister?
LAKESIDE PATH: We are tracking on Hi and Glen as they walk side by side. Glen is sopping wet, wearing only swimming suit and wing- tipped shoes. His body is ghostly pale except for a V-area at his neck and his arms below the short-sleeve line, which are a bright angry red.
GLEN: Hear about the person of the Polish persuasion he walks into a bar holdin' a pile of shit in his hands, says "Look what I almost stepped in." Glen bursts out laughing; Hi walks on in silence.
HI: .Yeah, that's funny all right.
GLEN: Ya damn right it's funny! Shit man, what's the matter?
HI: I dunno. maybe it's wife, kids, family life. I mean are you, uh, satisfied Glen? Don't y'ever feel suffocated? Like, like there's somethin' big pressin' down.
GLEN: ( solemnly ) Eeeeeyep. I do know the feelin'. Hi shakes his head.
HI: And I told Dottie to lose some weight but she don't wanna listen! He roars with laughter and slaps Hi heartily on the back. As he chuckles sympathetically:
GLEN: And I told Dottie to lose some weight but she don't wanna listen! He roars with laughter and slaps Hi heartily on the back. As he chuckles sympathetically:
GLEN: .No man, I know what you mean. You got all kinds a responsibilities now. You're married, ya got a kid, looks like your whole life's set down and where's the excitement?
HI: Yeah Glen, I guess that's it.
GLEN: Okay! That's the disease, but there is a cure.
HI: Sure; Doctor Glen is tellin' ya you can heal thyself.
GLEN: Sure; Doctor Glen is tellin' ya you can heal thyself.
HI: What do I gotta do?
GLEN: Well you just gotta broaden your mind a little bit. I mean say I asked you, what do you think about Dot?
HI: ( puzzled ) Fine woman you got there. Glen is eyeing him shrewdly.
GLEN: Okay. Now it might not look like it, but lemme tell you something: She's a hellcat.
HI: That right?
GLEN: But what's that got to do with-
HI: But what's that got to do with-
GLEN: Don't rush me! He stops walking. Hi stops also, looking at Glen, Still puzzled. Glen lays a companionable hand on his shoulder.
GLEN: Now the thing about Dot is, she thinks- and she's told me this- He looks around as if to make sure they are not being overheard. His tone is confidential.
GLEN: .she thinks. you're cute. Hi looks suspiciously at Glen's hand on his shoulder.
HI: Glen nods energetically:
GLEN: I'm crappin' you negative! And I could say the same about Ed! Through tightly clenched teeth:
HI: What're you talkin' about, Glen?
GLEN: What'm I talkin' about?! I'm talkin' about sex, boy! What the hell're you talkin' about?! You know, "L'amour"?! I'm talkin' me'n Dot are Swingers! As in "to Swing"! Wife-swappin'! What they call nowadays Open Marriage! Beaming, he takes his hand off Hi's shoulder and spreads his I'm talkin' about the Sex Revolution! I'm talkin' about- THWAK - Hi's fist swings into frame to connect solidly with Glen's jaw. Glen's feet leave the ground. He flies back and lands in a LOW-ANGLE REVERSE Glen in the foreground, groggily rubbing his jaw; Hi approaching menacingly.
GLEN: I'm talkin' about the Sex Revolution! I'm talkin' about- THWAK - Hi's fist swings into frame to connect solidly with Glen's jaw. Glen's feet leave the ground. He flies back and lands in a LOW-ANGLE REVERSE Glen in the foreground, groggily rubbing his jaw; Hi approaching menacingly.
HI: Keep your goddamned hands off my Shit man! He is scrambling to his feet.
GLEN: Shit man! He is scrambling to his feet.
GLEN: .I was only tryin' to help!
HI: Keep your goddamned hands off my With Hi still advancing, Glen starts to run.
GLEN: You're crazy! I feel pity for you, man! You- CRASH! - Glen runs smack into a tree and drops like a sack of cement.
ED: We finally go out with some decent people and you break his nose. That ain't too funny, Hi.
HI: ( stolidly ) His kids seemed to think it was funny.
ED: Well they're just kids, you're a grown man with responsibilities. Whatever possessed you?
HI: He was provokin' me when I popped How'd he do that?
ED: How'd he do that?
HI: .Never mind.
ED: But Hi, he's your foreman, he's just gonna fire you now.
HI: I expect he will.
ED: And where does that leave me and Nathan Jr.?
HI: With a man for a husband. He is pulling into a convenience store parking lot.
ED: That ain't no answer.
HI: Honey, that's the only answer. He puts the car in park but leaves it running.
HI: .Nathan needs some Huggies. I'll be out directly. As he gets out of the car:
HI: .Mind you stay strapped in.
CLOSEUP CASHIER: A pimply-faced lad with a paper 7-Eleven cap on his head. He is looking up from a dirty magazine, reacting in horror to something approaching.
HI'S POV: Hi is approaching the check-out island with a gun in one hand, the carton of Huggies tucked under the other. The L'Eggs stocking is pulled over his head to distort his features.
HI: I'll be taking these Huggies and whatever cash you got.
ED: "Not by the hair of my chinny-chin- chin." Then I'll huff and I'll She pauses for a moment, listening. We can barely hear a distant siren. She resumes absently, but her voice trails ".and I'll blow your house in." We can definitely hear the WHOO-WHOO of the siren now, and it is definitely approaching. Ed hooks an arm around the seat and looks behind the car, then looks forward.
ED: ".and I'll blow your house in." We can definitely hear the WHOO-WHOO of the siren now, and it is definitely approaching. Ed hooks an arm around the seat and looks behind the car, then looks forward.
HER POV: Indistinctly visible through the semi-reflective glass are two figures at the check-out island. One is pointing something at the other.
ED: That son-of-a-bitch. She unstraps herself and gets out of the car.
ED: You son-of-a-bitch! With this Hi notices her. He turns to the Cashier.
HI: Better hurry it up. I'm in dutch with the wife. But Ed is already getting into the driver's seat of the car.
ED: That son-of-a-bitch. Hang on, pumpkin. The car squeals out of the lot.
HI: We hear the SMACK-CRACK of a gunshot and glass impact, but the approaching squad car is still too far down the block to have been the source. Hi looks around the parking lot, bewildered. The wailing siren is becoming painfully loud. Hi looks behind him at the plate-glass front of the store, where a bullet pock mars the glass.
HIS POV: Through the glass we see the pimply young Cashier with the paper 7-Eleven cap pop up from behind the counter to sight down his huge .44 Magnum for another shot. The gun is so big he uses both hands to heft it. SMACK-CRACK - the bullet kisses another hole in the glass. Hi is off and running. The squad car is screeching into the lot. An officer tumbles out of the passenger side before the car is fully stopped. He rolls on the pavement, then hurriedly rights himself and takes up a half-kneeling shooting stance. At the same time the little Cashier is emerging from the 7- Eleven with his gun. The two bang away at Hi's retreating figure - the Policeman's revolver popping, the Cashier's Magnum booming. We hear the Policeman who is still in the car drawling over its loudspeaker:
SPEAKER: Halt. It's a police warning, son. Put those groceries down and turn yourself in.
ED'S CAR: Driving. She hears distant gunshots.
ED: That son of a bitch. Hold on, Nathan. We're gonna go pick up Daddy. She hangs a vicious U-turn.
SPEAKER: That's private property, son. Come back out to the street and reveal yourself to Officer Steensma and Officer Scott - that's me.
YARD: Hi vaults a fence to land in the backyard. As he straightens to his feet we hear a horrible snarling and barking. A huge black Doberman is bounding across the lawn. It looks like it means to rip Hi's throat out.
CLOSE: On the dog, snarling and straining against the end of his Down along the chain toward the spike mooring it to the ground. As the dog strains, the spike starts to stir in the Other dogs can be heard barking now, the Doberman having started a sympathetic wave.
TRACKING: Down along the chain toward the spike mooring it to the ground. As the dog strains, the spike starts to stir in the Other dogs can be heard barking now, the Doberman having started a sympathetic wave.
ED'S CAR: Her jaw set, she takes a hard turn, looking this way and The police car approaches and roars by, the Passenger Cop still hanging out his window.
ED: That son of a bitch. The police car approaches and roars by, the Passenger Cop still hanging out his window.
ED: .Lookie Nathan, a police car. She is looking in her rearview mirror.
ED: .Say, that looks like Bill Steensma.
DRIVER: Son, you got a panty on your head.
HI: Just drive fast. He is displaying his gun as he starts to climb in.
HI: .and don't stop till I tell ya. Before Hi can get his door shut the Driver is obediently peeling out. Hi is reacting to an oncoming car. He peels the stocking off to look, and leans across the Driver's lap to bellow as Ed's car passes:
HI: Hi turns to look through the back window.
HIS POV: Ed's car is braking and spinning into a U-turn.
HI: Mind the baby now! Next to him, the Driver is screaming. As Hi turns forward, the entire windshield explodes in.
THEIR POV: The pimply-faced Cashier from the 7-Eleven is standing in the middle of the road ahead, sighting down his .44 Magnum for another shot. We are rushing in.
THE DRIVER: Still screaming.
THE CASHIER: Ready to fire and - THUMP - he is bowled over by the arriving Doberman, still trailing chain and spike, and now accompanied by three other dogs, all braying at the top of their lungs. Still screaming, the Driver puts his body into a hard right turn to avoid the Cashier and hellhounds.
NEW STREET: Roaring up the new street, they are now directly in the path of the oncoming police car, its siren wailing, barreling straight at them. Still screaming, the Driver leans into another hard right. Wind is whistling in through where the windshield used to Two wheels hop curb as the car skids into the new street, fishtails, and roars away.
ED'S CAR: She hears dogs, siren, squealing brakes on an adjacent street.
ED: Hold on Nathan, we'll take a shortcut. She gives the wheel a hard right turn. But there is no cross street. The car hops the curb and roars up someone's nicely tended front yard, heading for the gap between this house and the one next door.
POLICE CAR: Recovered and turned around from its near collision with the SCREAMING; Driver, the squad car is now squealing onto the street the Screamer swerved on to - resuming pursuit. As the police car roars down the street, Ed's car appears from between two houses behind it, bounces down the front yard to the street and follows the police.
SCREAMER'S PICKUP: Raking two-shot of Hi and the Screamer. Hi is looking back over his shoulder at the pursuing police. Desperately pleading:
SCREAMER: Can I stop now? Hi looks forward.
HIS POV: They are rushing toward an imposing colonial house planted at the end of the dead-end street.
HI: Maybe you better.
HI: Thank you.
POLICEMAN'S POV: Still on the dead run, Hi is flinging the carton of Huggies. The carton rockets straight at the camera.
HER FEET: Tracking from in front. Beyond her we can see the pack of furiously barking dogs, nipping at her heels. They boil over the prostrate Officer Steensma, and this is the last we see of him in this movie.
HI: Thank you honey, you really didn't have to do this- THWAK - Ed gives him a good hard slap and Hi's head rolls toward the camera.
ED: You son-of-a-bitch! You're actin' like a mad dog! Rubbing his jaw:
HI: Turn left, honey. Still at top speed, she leans into a hard left, tires What if me'n the baby'd been picked up? Nathan Jr. would a been accessory to armed robbery!
ED: What if me'n the baby'd been picked up? Nathan Jr. would a been accessory to armed robbery!
HI: Nawww honey, it ain't armed robbery if the gun ain't loaded-
ED: What kind of home life is this for a toddler?! You're supposed to be an Now honey, I never postured myself as the three-piece suit type - Turn left, dear.
HI: Now honey, I never postured myself as the three-piece suit type - Turn left, dear.
ED: We got a child now, everything's Well Nathan Jr. accepts me for what I am and I think you better had, too. You know, honey, I'm okay you're okay? That - there's what it is.
HI: Well Nathan Jr. accepts me for what I am and I think you better had, too. You know, honey, I'm okay you're okay? That - there's what it is.
ED: I know, but honey -
HI: See I come from a long line of frontiersmen and - here it is, turn here dear - frontiersmen and outdoor Hi's eyes are fixed on something in the road ahead.
ED: I'm not gonna live this way, Hi. It just ain't family life! Hi's attention is still on the road. He is opening his door, even though the car is still racing along. He absently Well. It ain't Ozzie and Harriet.
HI: Well. It ain't Ozzie and Harriet.
REVERSE: As Hi pulls the carton in and slams his door shut. Crane up in the car speeding away.
ED: You two are leaving.
ED: Tomorrow morning. Now I got nothing against you personally. Gale and Evelle look appealingly toward Hi, who shifts uncomfortably behind Ed.
ED: .but you're wanted by the authorities and you're a bad influence in this household, in my opinion.
GALE: Well ma'am. we sure didn't mean to influence anyone.
EVELLE: And if we did, we apologize. Ed is unmoved.
ED: I'm goin' in to town tomorrow to see about some shots for the baby. When I come back you better be gone or I'll kick you out myself. She storms into the bedroom and slams the door. There is an awkward silence as Gale studies his thumb and Evelle stares at the ceiling. Finally Evelle turns to Hi.
EVELLE: .What's he need, his dip-tet?
HI: I'm awful sorry boys, but when Ed gets mad, you know, when she gets an Well there ain't a thing to apologize for, H.I. He looks at Evelle.
GALE: Well there ain't a thing to apologize for, H.I. He looks at Evelle.
GALE: .It seems pretty clear what the situation is here.
EVELLE: Yeah, I guess the Missus wants us to clear out.
GALE: Now H.I., you'll pardon me for sayin' so, but I get the feelin' that this- His gesture seems to take in the trailer and the entire domestic situation.
GALE: .ain't exactly workin' out.
HI: Well now Ed's generally a real sweetheart, I-
GALE: And as per usual, I wouldn't be surprised if the source of the marital friction was financial.
HI: Well, matter of fact, I did lose my job today-
EVELLE: Come on Hi. you're young, you got your health - what do you want with a job?
GALE: But look, I'd rather light a candle than curse your darkness. As you know, Evelle'n I never go anywhere without a reason. and here we are in your little domicile. We come to invite you in on a score.
EVELLE: A bank, Hi. Hi is shaking his head.
HI: Aw boys, I don't-
GALE: I know you're partial to convenience stores but, H.I., the sun don't rise and set on the corner grocery.
EVELLE: It's like Doc Schwartz says: You gotta have a little ambition. Why we just heard on the news how somebody snatched off one of the Arizona babies. Now there's someone thinkin' And here you are sittin' around on your butt playin' house with a - don't get me wrong, H.I., with a fine woman - but a woman who needs the button-down type.
GALE: And here you are sittin' around on your butt playin' house with a - don't get me wrong, H.I., with a fine woman - but a woman who needs the button-down type.
HI: Well now that ain't really any of Just lookahere. He is handing Hi a folded-up picture.
GALE: Just lookahere. He is handing Hi a folded-up picture.
EVELLE: Picture of El Dorado, Hi.
GALE: Though the locals call it the Farmers and Mechanics Bank of LaGrange. Looks like a hayseed bank and, tell you the truth, it is a hayseed bank. Except the last Friday of every financial quarter there's more cash in that bank than flies at a barbecue.
EVELLE: And guess what day it is tomorrow?
GALE: Ya see, H.I., it's when the hayseeds come in to cash their farm subsidy A-One information.
EVELLE: A-One information.
GALE: Got it in the joint from a guy named Lawrence Spivey, one of Dick Nixon's undersecretaries of agriculture.
EVELLE: He's in for solicitin' sex from a state trooper.
GALE: Ordinarily we don't associate with that class of person, but. Gale chuckles.
GALE: .he was tryin' to make brownie points with some of the boys.
HI: Boys, I can't -
EVIELLE: We need someone handy with a scatter- gun to cover the hayseeds while we get the cash.
GALE: Y'understand, H.I., if this works out it's just the beginning of a spree across the entire Southwest proper. We keep goin' 'till we can retire - or we get caught.
EVELLE: Either way we're fixed for life. Hi is still shaking his head.
HI: Boys, it's a kind offer, but you're suggesting I just up'n leave Ed. Now that'd be pretty damn cowardly, wouldn't it.
GALE: Would it? Think about it, H.I. Seems to me, stayin' here, y'ain't doin' her any good. And y'ain't bein' true to your own nature. The camera has floated in to a close shot of Hi, staring glumly at GALE.
VOICE OVER: My dearest Edwinna. Tonight as you and Nathan slumber, my heart is filled with anguish.
VOICE OVER: .I hope that you will both understand, and forgive me for what I have decided I must do. By the time you read this, I will be gone.
LIVING ROOM: Creeping in on GALE and EVELLE, sprawled on the sofa and easy chair respectively, sawing boards.
VOICE OVER: .I will never be the man that you want me to be, the husband and father that you and Nathan deserve.
VOICE OVER: Maybe it's my upbringing; maybe it's just that my genes got screwed up - I don't know.
VOICE OVER: But the events of the last day have showed, amply, that I don't have the strength of character to raise up a We are slowly panning over to the newspaper rack, revealing tomorrow's headline: "WHERE IS NATHAN JR.?"
VOICE OVER: .in the manner befitting a responsible adult, and not like the wild man from Borneo.
ARIZONA HOME: Creeping in on Nathan Jr. in the living room, asleep in his ottoman armchair, lit only by the snow from the TV set he is facing, a half-full glass of milk on the coffee table next to him. His robe is disheveled; his eyeglasses have slid down his
VOICE OVER: .I say all this to my shame.
TRAILER BEDROOM: Creeping in on Ed and Nathan Jr., asleep together in the double bed. Ed's arm is draped protectively over the sleeping We start to hear the rumble of the motorcycle mix up again.
VOICE OVER: .I will love you always, truly and deeply. But I fear that if I stay I would only bring bad trouble. We start to hear the rumble of the motorcycle mix up again.
VOICE OVER: .on the heads of you and Nathan Night sky. The motorcycle tire enters frame as the bike comes to a halt. The Biker plants a jackbooted foot in the The engine rumbles.
BLACKNESS: Night sky. The motorcycle tire enters frame as the bike comes to a halt. The Biker plants a jackbooted foot in the The engine rumbles.
VOICE OVER: I feel the thunder gathering even now; if I leave, hopefully, it will leave with me. We are craning up over the Biker's back to reveal what he is looking at: We are on a bluff overlooking the trailer park. In the window of one trailer below, a yellow light glows.
VOICE OVER: I cannot tarry.
VOICE OVER: Better I should go, send you money, and let you curse my name. Your loving. Herbert.
FADE OUT: Roaring at the cut. Through it we can see the Biker sitting on the ground, legs stretched out in front of him, back resting against his parked motorcycle, arms folded across his chest. Perfectly motionless, he stares at the campfire. We are floating in toward him. As we come closer, eventually drawing in to a close shot of his face, we gradually realize something peculiar about his eyes: He seems to have none. Although his eyes are unblinkingly open we do not see eyeballs, but only fire - either a reflection of the campfire or something roaring - CLOSE SHOT DOOR MAT It reads: "Come On In! To Unpainted Arizona." The smoking butt of a cheroot is dropped onto the mat. A jackbooted foot grinds it out.
FIRE: Roaring at the cut. Through it we can see the Biker sitting on the ground, legs stretched out in front of him, back resting against his parked motorcycle, arms folded across his chest. Perfectly motionless, he stares at the campfire. We are floating in toward him. As we come closer, eventually drawing in to a close shot of his face, we gradually realize something peculiar about his eyes: He seems to have none. Although his eyes are unblinkingly open we do not see eyeballs, but only fire - either a reflection of the campfire or something roaring - CLOSE SHOT DOOR MAT It reads: "Come On In! To Unpainted Arizona." The smoking butt of a cheroot is dropped onto the mat. A jackbooted foot grinds it out.
DISCOLORED TEETH: Biting down on the cigar.
HAND: Dragging the kitchen match along the unfinished wood surface of an expensive bureau, leaving an ugly black scar. The match erupts into roaring flame.
CIGAR: Crackling as it is lit.
DOOR: Reading "Executive Offices." The mailed fist pushes it open.
SECRETARY'S VOICE: I'm sorry, Mr. Arizona, he just barged The door swings open and Nathan stands looking in, his middle- aged secretary hanging at his elbow.
SECRETARY'S VOICE: .Should I call Dewayne? Nathan is staring toward his desk.
NATHAN: Hell no, why wake the security guard. I'll take care a this. The secretary leaves.
NATHAN'S POV: The Biker sits with his back to us, jackboots propped lazily on the desk. His head bobs and ducks, as if he is following some movement in the air in front of him.
BIKER: No reaction. His head continues to bob and duck.
HIS POV: Arcing around to reveal the Biker's face. He still does not react to Nathan, not even bothering to give him a glance. His eyes continue to follow some phantom movement. When the Biker speaks it is still without looking at Nathan, and with a surprisingly soft voice and mild, unhurried manner:
BIKER: You got flies. He finally looks at Nathan, and smiles faintly.
NATHAN: I doubt it. This place's climate- controlled, all the windows are sealed. Who the hell are you?
BIKER: Name of Leonard Smalls. My friends call me Lenny. He takes a drag on his cigar.
BIKER: .Only I ain't got no friends.
NATHAN: Stop, you'll make me bust out crying. Listen Leonard, you want some furniture or a shitbox, they're out on the sales floor. SMALLS is pleasantly shaking his head.
SMALLS: Nooo, I ain't a customer, I'm a manhunter. Ordinarily. Though I do hunt babies, on occasion. Hear you got one you can't put your hand to.
NATHAN: What do you know about it?
SMALLS: Wal, that's my business. I'm a tracker- part Hopi Indian, some say part hound dog. When some dink skips bail, crashes outta the joint, I'm the man they call.
NATHAN: Mister, I got the cops, the state troopers and the Federal-B-I already lookin' for my boy. Now if you got information I strongly advise-
SMALLS: Cop won't find your boy. Cop couldn't find his own butt if it had a bell on it. Wanna find an outlaw, call an outlaw. Wanna find a Dunkin Donuts, call a cop.
NATHAN: Smalls, first off, take your damn feet off m'furniture. Second off, it's widely known I posted a twenty grand reward for my boy. If you can find him, claim it. Short of that what do we got to talk about?
SMALLS: Price. Fair price. And that ain't whatever you say it is; fair price is what the market'll bear. Now there are people, mind you, there are people in this land, who'll pay a lot more'n twenty grand for a healthy baby. Nathan is looking at him stonily.
NATHAN: What're you after?
SMALLS: Give you an idea, when I was a lad I m'self fetched twenty-five thousand on the black market. And them's 1954 dollars. I'm sayin, fair price. For fifty grand I'll track him, find him- Quick as a flash the heretofore languid Smalls bolts forward, his fist stopped an inch short of Nathan's nose.
SMALLS: .and the people that took him. He flicks the fly away.
SMALLS: .I'll kick their butts. He sits back down.
SMALLS: .No extra charge. Nathan stares grimly at Smalls.
NATHAN: And if I don't pay?
SMALLS: Oh I'll get your boy regardless. Cause if you don't pay, the market You wanna know what I think? I think you're an evil man. I think this is nothin' but a goddamn screw job. I think it's a shakedown. I think you're the one took Nathan Jr. and my fine friend, I think you're the one gonna get his butt kicked. Nathan swivels to punch numbers on a telephone.
NATHAN: You wanna know what I think? I think you're an evil man. I think this is nothin' but a goddamn screw job. I think it's a shakedown. I think you're the one took Nathan Jr. and my fine friend, I think you're the one gonna get his butt kicked. Nathan swivels to punch numbers on a telephone.
NATHAN: I think I'm on the phone to the cops right now, and I- He swivels back, looking up, and his speech stops short.
HIS POV: The office is empty. A whipcrack effect builds to the cut CLOSE ON HI His eyes snap open as the whipcrack echoes away. He has been slumped over the kitchen table, asleep.
EVELLE: Come on, the missus'll be back from town soon. Hi takes the envelope that he was slumped over, to Ed written on its face. As he sticks it to the refrigerator door with a broccoli magnet:
HI: Where's the baby?
EVELLE: Bedroom, in his crib.
GALE: He's sawin' toothpicks, he'll be There is a harsh knock at the door. All three tense.
GALE: .You expectin' anybody? Hi is staring. The knock comes again.
HI: No. You two stay outta sight. He goes to the door, pulls back its shade and peeks out. Under his breath:
HI: He opens the door.
HI: Morning Glen. Glen speaks in a very nasal voice:
GLEN: I ain't comin' in if ya don't mind. I'll just keep my distance.
HI: I didn't invite you in, Glen.
GLEN: Well don't even bother. First off, you're fired - and that's official.
HI: I kinda figured that, Glen.
GLEN: Well that ain't why I'm here neither. No sir. You're in a whole shitload of trouble, my friend. Hi is looking at him evenly.
HI: Why don't you just calm down, Glen.
GLEN: Why don't you make me?! Know that little baby you got in there? Remember him? I know what his real name is! Hi is suddenly nervous and urgent:
HI: Wanna keep your voice down, Glen?
GLEN: I'll pitch my voice wherever I please! His name ain't Hi Jr.! His name ain't Ed Jr.! But it's junior an right! Yes sir, it's Nathan Jr.! Hi takes one step down holding out a calming hand. Glen takes two nervous steps away and reassures himself by resting a hand on the door of his station wagon.
GLEN: .Stay away from me, McDunnough! Hi stops short. Glen smiles.
GLEN: .Sure, you're an awful big man when you got somethin' around to clobber a guy with!
HI: ( softly ) I ain't a big man.
GLEN: That's right! And now you're at my He spits on the dirt in front of him.
GLEN: .I'm your worst nightmare! I wanted to just turn you in for the re-ward. But Dot, she wants something to cuddle. So it looks like that baby's gonna be Glen Jr. From now on! Hi's face is set in rigid dismay.
GLEN: .I'll give you a day to break the news to Ed. Glen is getting into his car.
GLEN: .Dot'll be by tomorrow to pick him He slams the door.
GLEN: .It's either that or jail. Oh and say, that reminds me! You'll find a doctor bill in the mail in a few days. I recommend you pay it! And the car squeals off. Hi looks back at the trailer.
HIS POV: A slat in the window blind drops back into place.
HI: What's goin' on here. Gale steps in front of Hi.
GALE: You know what's goin' on, H.I. It's just business. Now this can go either hard or easy- Hi gives Gale a hard push to get past him. Gale staggers back but recovers and grabs Hi in a bear hug. Hi flips Gale. Gale lands on a coffee table which flips up and crashes back down. Evelle is dancing back out of Hi's reach. As Hi lunges for him the prostrate Gale grabs his legs. Hi goes down hard. Gale leaps to his feet and - CRASH - bangs his head up against an overhanging lamp. Both of his hands fly up to massage the top of his head. THOOMP - Hi's fist flies into frame to connect with Gale's unguarded stomach. Gale doubles over, clutching at his gut. Hi interlaces his fingers to make a club of his two hands. With Gale's bowed head a target in front of him, Hi swings his hands up over his head. Hi's knuckles scrape painfully against the plaster of the too - low ceiling. Skin is flayed, plaster crumbles. Hi grabs at his knuckles in pain. Gale lunges with a mid- body tackle that sends Hi crashing into the wall. Gale, still on top of him, reaches back to throw a punch. The reach-back sends his elbow crashing through a window but doesn't stop the punch. It connects with Hi's jaw. Gale throws another quick punch, all his weight behind it. Hi's head bobs sideways just in time and Gale's fist goes through the wall. It is momentarily stuck there. Hi uses the opportunity to grab Gale's one free arm with both of his. He is twisting it to make Gale, roaring with pain, twist around and present his back to him. Hi climbs aboard, grabbing Gale's face. Gale, still roaring, is pulling his fist out of the hole. He grabs a lath exposed by the hole and pulls; it tears out of the wall and snaps free, giving him a length of about two Gale is rampaging around like a grizzly bear hemmed in a too- small space. Hi is hanging on for dear life, his own feet flailing this way and that, knocking over lamps and wall fixtures as Gale bends and twirls about, trying to shake him loose. Gale crashes and bounces off the walls, roaring in pain and fury. Close shots of Gale's face show his features impossibly and grotesquely contorted by Hi's hand, squeezing, gripping and clutching at it. Evelle is dancing around with the baby, dodging crashing furniture and flailing body parts.
BATHROOM: Amid a shower of plaster dust and lath. Hi has landed, groggily, against the toilet. Evelle enters now with his hands free, apparently having set the baby down somewhere. He yanks the cord off the bathroom blinds.
LIVING ROOM: Hi is seated in a straight-back chair, still violently struggling but Gale's arms are wrapped around him from behind. Evelle is just finishing tying off his wrists behind the No one talks; there is nothing left to say. Finished, Gale goes to the door and Evelle goes to the bedroom. He emerges with the baby and precedes Gale out the door, Gale slamming it behind him. Hi starts bucking and struggling, weeping tears of rage and frustration. He succeeds only in tipping forward, face down into the carpet, the strapped-on chair pressing down on top of him. His profile is pressed into the carpet. Offscreen we hear the door of the trailer opening.
HI'S POV: At carpet level. Gale's shoes enter his field of vision. They stride over to a mess of debris in the corner of the living room.
OBJECTIVE SHOT: As Gale paws through the wreckage to expose the copy of Dr. Spock's Baby and Child Care. He grabs the book.
HI'S POV: The feet walk away and leave his field of vision.
WIDE SHOT: Moving down the road toward an oncoming car. As the oncoming car gets closer we can see Gale and Evelle in its front seat. As the car passes we pan with it, to reveal that we have been shooting from the inside of another car, and we hold on the profile of its driver: Ed. She has just watched the other car shoot past.
ED: QUICK FADE OUT INT. DEVASTATED TRAILER As Ed sits heavily into frame, apparently in shock, her frozen profile to the camera as she stares straight ahead into space. Her foreground hand absently holds a length of cord. Beyond her in the middle background Hi is rummaging in the debris. He stands up, cropped from the chest down and starts loading bullets into the chamber of Ed's .38 police special.
HI: ( frantically ) I know you're worried honey but believe me, there ain't a thing to worry about. We're gonna get him back, there just ain't no question about that. He snaps the chamber shut and leaves frame, still talking.
HI: .We'll get him back, that's just all there is to it. And you wanna know another thing? He is walking back into frame holding another handgun now in addition to the .38, this one an automatic.
HI: .I'm gonna be a better person from here on out. And that's final, I mean that's absolutely the way it's gonna be, that's official. You were right and I was wrong. He snaps a clip into the automatic.
HI: .A blind man could tell you that. Now they ain't gonna hurt him, they're just in it for the score. Hi is leaving frame again, continuing to talk as we hear him rummaging offscreen.
HI: .But I ain't like that no more, I'm a changed man. You were right and I was wrong. We got a family here and I'm gonna start acting Hi enters frame with the two handguns stuck in his belt, holding his pump-action shotgun.
HI: .So let's go honey. He primes the shotgun: WHOOSH-CLACK.
HI: .Let's go get Nathan Jr.
TRACKING SHOT: From the front bumper of an automobile. Beautiful desert stretches to the horizon. The road rushes under the camera.
GALE: I luuuuv to drive.
EVELLE: You said somethin' there, partner.
GALE: .Yessir, I figure with the ransom and this bank, you'n I'll be sittin' in the fabled catbird seat. Evelle is looking down at the baby, shifting him in his lap.
EVELLE: Uh, Gale. Junior had a, uh, What's that, pardner?
GALE: What's that, pardner?
EVELLE: He had a little accident. Gale looks over.
GALE: Wuddya mean, he looks okay.
EVELLE: No, ya see. Movin' though we are, he just had hisself a rest stop.
GALE: Well it's perfectly natural.
EVELLE: ( very excited ) Hey Gale!
GALE: What now? Evelle, beaming, looks up from the baby to Gale.
EVELLE: .He smiled at me!
THE SUN: A huge rumbling rippling red ball that fills the frame. As we hear his footfalls on concrete steps, Smalls rises into frame, apparently climbing a stoop. The sun behind him throws him into silhouette; the extreme telephoto flattens him against the sun. Heat waves ripple between us and him, making his figure slightly waver. The rumble builds, louder and louder, until it is snapped off by a-
HIS POV: At knee-height on the wall in front of him, "FART" is scrawled in crayon.
THE PAPER: It is Gale's picture of the Farmers and Mechanics Bank.
WIDER: Evelle and the Cashier, a late-middle-aged man ( perhaps the proprietor of this small mom-and-pop store ) face each other across the check-out counter. Evelle has various baby purchases - the diapers, baby food, etc. - piled on the counter. The Cashier is ringing them up. Through the open door beyond them we can see a strip of the parking lot.
CASHIER: Welp. Around the butt, then up over the groin area-
EVELLE: I know where they go, old timer. I mean do I need pins or fasteners? We see Gale trotting past through the visible part of the parking lot, cooing "Weeeeee!" as he holds Nathan Jr. Up over his head.
CASHIER: Well no, they got those tape-ettes already on there, it's self-contained and fairly explanatory.
EVELLE: He takes a plastic-covered squirt gun off a display rack and drops it on the counter. He is looking around at the other impulse purchases displayed by the register; he unhooks a bag of balloons.
EVELLE: .These blow up into funny shapes at all? Gale is trotting by in the opposite direction: "Weeeeee!"
CASHIER: Well no. Unless round is funny. Evelle is pulling a gun out of his belt.
EVELLE: All right, I'll take these too. Now you lie down back there-
CASHIER: And don't you move till you've counted up to eight hundred and twenty-five and then backwards down to zero. I'll be back to check - see y'ain't The Cashier is already down on the floor, out of frame.
EVELLE: And don't you move till you've counted up to eight hundred and twenty-five and then backwards down to zero. I'll be back to check - see y'ain't The Cashier is already down on the floor, out of frame.
EVELLE: Looks like I'm one of 'em.
EVELLE: Get the door, will ya? Gale is slipping the baby back into his car seat, which sits on the roof of the car. He starts doing up the straps.
GALE: He's a real cheerful little critter once he warms up to ya. Hands free now, Gale reaches for the back door.
EVELLE: Hurry up Gale. Gale has the door open. Evelle starts throwing in the I don't know how high this one can GALE AND EVELLE'S CAR Gale drives as Evelle sorts through his purchases.
EVELLE: I don't know how high this one can GALE AND EVELLE'S CAR Gale drives as Evelle sorts through his purchases.
EVELLE: I got him some baby grub. baby wipes. diapers, disposable. packet of balloons-
GALE: They blow up into funny shapes at No, just- Gale is looking around, puzzled.
EVELLE: No, just- Gale is looking around, puzzled.
GALE: Say, where's Junior?
EVELLE: Wuddya mean, didn't you put him in?!
GALE: No, I thought- The two men look at each other.
REVERSE: The two men's heads whip around to look in the back seat.
GALE: Where'd we leave him?! The two men's eyes widen as they remember at the same time: both look up at the roof of the car.
EVELLE: But too late.
NOOOOOO!!: But too late.
GALE'S FOOT: Already plunging down on the brake. SQUEEEEEEEAL.
TWO SHOT: Evelle is screaming at the top of his lungs as the car rocks to a stop. He peers through the windshield, still screaming, but nothing has shot off the roof of the car. He cranes his neck to look up the slant of the windshield toward the roof. This of course gives him no view; still screaming, he thrusts his body out his open window to look up at the roof. His scream is muted as his head disappears from view, then comes back full force as he ducks back in, frantically shaking his head. With this Gale's last hope disappears and he starts bellowing GALE'S FOOT Rising from the brake to plunge down on the accelerator.
GALE'S FOOT: Rising from the brake to plunge down on the accelerator.
CASHIER: .Seven hunnert ninety-seven one thousand, seven hunnert ninety-six one thousand.
CASHIER: .Seven hunnert ninety-one one thousand, seven hunnert - ah. He rises into frame, back to the camera, just as: We see Gale and Evelle's car, through the front window, roaring up the street. Quick as a shot, the Cashier has dropped back out of frame and resumes bellowing:
CASHIER: Seven hunnert ninety - ought one thousand! Seven hundred eighty - The car is starting to squeal to a screaming halt.
EVELLE: Promise we ain't never gonna give him up, Gale! We ain't never gonna let him go! Gale, choked up, speaks in a low unsteady voice:
GALE: We'll never give him up, Evelle. He's our little Gale Jr. now.
HI: .Ed, I realize I can't be much of a comfort to you. But lemme just say He is nodding to himself.
HI: You'll feel a whole lot better when-
ED: I don't wanna feel better.
HI: I don't care about myself anymore. I don't care about us anymore. I just want Nathan Junior back safe.
ED: I don't care about myself anymore. I don't care about us anymore. I just want Nathan Junior back safe.
HI: I know that-
ED: If we don't get him back safe, I don't wanna go on livin'. And even if we do, I don't wanna go on livin' with you. This shuts Hi up. After a moment:
ED: .I guess I still love you Hi; I know I do. I ain't even blaming you. The whole thing was crazy and the whole thing was my idea. Hi clears his throat.
HI: Well, factually, I myself bear a very large-
ED: Lemme finish. Since those jailbirds took little Nathan I been doin' some thinking, and I ain't too proud of myself. Even if Mrs. Arizona had more'n she could handle, I was a police officer sworn to uphold the Constitution of the United States -
HI: Now waitaminute honey, you resigned before we-
ED: That ain't the point, Hi. We don't deserve Nathan Jr. Any more'n those jailbirds do. And if I'm as selfish and irresponsible as you-
HI: Y'ain't that bad, honey.
ED: If I'm as bad as you, what good're we to each other. You'n me's just a fool's paradise.
EVELLE: There she is.
GALE: Yep. Welp. They look at each other. Gale reaches for his door.
GALE: .Let's do her.
EVELLE: Waitaminute. What do we do with Gale Wuddya mean, he waits here.
GALE: Wuddya mean, he waits here.
EVELLE: Are you crazy?! He can't wait here by hisself. Supposin' we get killed in there - it could be hours before he's discovered.
GALE: All right you hayseeds, it's a stick- up! Everbody freeze! Everbody down on the ground! Everyone freezes, staring at Gale and Evelle. An Old Hayseed with his hands in the air speaks up:
HAYSEED: Well which is it young fella? You want I should freeze or get down on the ground? Mean to say, iffen I freeze, I can't rightly drop. And iffen I drop, I'm a gonna be in motion. Ya see -
GALE: Everone down on the ground!
SHUTUP!: Everone down on the ground!
HAYSEED: Everone down on the ground!
GALE: Everone down on the ground!
EVELLE: Y'all can just forget that part about That is until they get down there.
GALE: That is until they get down there.
EVELLE: Y'all hear that? There is a murmur of acknowledgment from all the people on the ground. Gale is tossing Evelle a sack.
GALE: Wanna fill that sack, pardner? We got - shit! He is looking in shock at the tellers' counter.
GALE: .Where'd all the tellers go? There is no one behind the counter. A muffled voice from offscreen:
VOICE: We're down here, sir.
EVELLE: They're down on the ground like you commanded, Gale.
GALE: I told you not to use m'damn name! Can't you even try to keep from forget'n that?! Evelle is momentarily abashed, but then brightens:
EVELLE: Not even yer code name? Gale registers understanding.
GALE: Oh yeah. m'code name.
EVELLE: Y'all hear that? There is a murmur of acknowledgment from all the people on the ground.
GALE: All right now everone, we're just about ready to begin the robbery EXT. POLICE CAR The camera is locked down on the roof of the rocketing squad car, looking past its flashing gumballs. The car is approaching the townlet, its siren wailing.
EVELLE: All right now everyone, you know how this works: Y'all stay flattened for ten full minutes. He is grabbing the two sacks and tosses one to Gale, who also picks up the baby. As the two are backing toward the .We might come back in five to check. That's for us to know and y'a to find out.
EVELLE: .We might come back in five to check. That's for us to know and y'a to find out.
GALE: Anyone found bipedal in five wears his ass for a hat. They bolt out the door.
GALE: That old timer threw off my concentration. Otherwise it would a gone smoother.
EVELLE: We done okay. Yessir. This ought to split nicely three ways. A thought registers with Gale and Evelle at the same moment. They look at each other. They both twist frantically to look in the back seat. Goddamnit! Ya never leave a man KA-POP! With a loud flat crack something detonates in the front seat and the interior of the car is spattered with bright blue paint. Gale and Evelle, both covered in blue, are screaming in rage, fear and incomprehension. Blue dollar bills snap and flutter around the inside of the car. The car is swerving wildly as Gale drives blind, the inside of the windshield covered with blue paint. He reaches forward to wipe clear a patch of windshield.
GALE: Goddamnit! Ya never leave a man KA-POP! With a loud flat crack something detonates in the front seat and the interior of the car is spattered with bright blue paint. Gale and Evelle, both covered in blue, are screaming in rage, fear and incomprehension. Blue dollar bills snap and flutter around the inside of the car. The car is swerving wildly as Gale drives blind, the inside of the windshield covered with blue paint. He reaches forward to wipe clear a patch of windshield.
HIS POV: As the blue paint is smeared away we see Hi and Ed's car parked broadside in the middle of the road. Hi and Ed are in front of it, Hi aiming his scatter gun, Ed a revolver. The guns spit orange flame.
HI'S POV: Down the barrel of his shotgun. The car with the blue interior is swerving crazily at us, one front tire blown out. Hi lets go with the other barrel. The shot chews up the front grill, shatters one headlight and blows out the other front tire. The hood of the car flies The car is squealing to a halt and Gale and Evelle pile out, still bellowing.
GALE: Goddamnit H.I., ain't we got enough to contend with? Ed is running over to Gale and Evelle's car, throwing open the back door to look for the baby but coming out only with Dr. Spock's Baby and Child Care. Evelle is staggering around in shock, looking in disbelief at his own blue body.
ED: Where's the baby? Evelle points this way and that, in a state of confusion.
EVELLE: I think we left him on the roof of the. he must be back at the. Hi and Ed are climbing into their car.
GALE: Let us come with you! Hi and Ed are already peeling out.
GALE: .He's our baby too!
REVERSE: Low shot with Nathan Jr. in the foreground. He is scooped up and out of frame as Lenny roars by.
ON LENNY: Roaring along. He hooks the car seat over his handlebars.
ED: What is he?
HI: .D'you see him too? Lenny is sawing a shotgun out of his back holster and leveling it at the oncoming car. Lenny is sighting down the gun, swinging it around as he approaches the car.
LENNY'S POV: The baby on the handlebars in the foreground; the road rushing by beyond him. The bike banks into a hard turn.
ON ED: As she dives for cover behind a parked car. Beyond her - KABOOM! - their car explodes and bounces, pouring black smoke.
ON HI: The explosion flings him to the ground in the middle of the THROUGH FIRE AND SMOKE Looking up the street to where Lenny is wheeling his bike in a U-turn. He is not finished yet. Hi flat on his back, woozily shaking his head. He weakly raises himself on his elbows to look down the HI'S POV Looking down the length of his own body. His legs stretch away in a V. Crashing down from a wheelie, Lenny's roaring bike is almost upon him - aiming up the middle of the V.
HI'S POV: Looking down the length of his own body. His legs stretch away in a V. Crashing down from a wheelie, Lenny's roaring bike is almost upon him - aiming up the middle of the V.
HI: He rolls. As the bike is roaring by:
HI'S HAND: Reaches and snags a chain on Lenny's passing boot.
HI: Dragged several yards before the boot shakes him off, leaving him on his stomach in the middle of the road. Hi looks up the road.
HI'S POV: Lenny is again sluing the bike around.
ED: I want that baby!
ED: Gimme that baby, you warthog from Lenny's arms rise into frame. With a roll of his wrists two knives appear in his hands.
HIS POV: Ed stepping into his line of fire, blocking Lenny.
LENNYS HAND: Drilled by Hi's bullet, drops its knife. The exit wound spurts, not flesh and blood, but a brief jet of fire.
LENNY: Quick as a flash hurling the other knife at Hi.
HI: As the knife stings the gun out of his hand.
OLD TIMER: Just lie down on the floor, missie. BANG: The front door bursts open before Lenny's roaring hog. It sails off a step into the sunken atrium, and lands with a CRASH amidst the hayseeds.
ALLEYWAY: Ed is running up the alley toward the front of the bank as Lenny enters. He roars after her.
LENNY'S POV: Roaring down the alley.
REVERSE: Matching action as Hi finishes swinging the plank into Lenny's Lenny hits the ground hard as his bike spins out from under THE BIKE Riderless, twisting crazily into the street where it HI AND ED Lenny is rising to his feet beyond them as Hi nods encouragement to Ed.
THE BIKE: Riderless, twisting crazily into the street where it HI AND ED Lenny is rising to his feet beyond them as Hi nods encouragement to Ed.
HI: Run along now, honey. Lenny is reaching back to throw his knife. Hi, unaware, is turning to face him, presenting the plank as - the knife is thrown. It thunks into the plank, piercing it through. Hi backs up, swinging the knife - studded plank to make Lenny keep his distance.
LENNY'S HAND: As the free chain drops down into his palm.
LENNY: Swinging the chain - WHOOSH WHOOSH - at the backpedaling Hi.
THE PLANK: As the chain snakes around it and rips it out of Hi's hands.
LENNY: Grabbing Hi by the shirtfront.
ON HI: As Lenny's fist swings into frame to club him forehand, then An uppercut from his heels sends Hi sprawling back.
HI: Struggling to stand up. Lenny wraps his arms around him and applies a tremendous bear hug.
HI'S ARMS: Crushed against Lenny. His hands paw futilely at Lenny's FULL SHOT Lenny finally flings Hi away.
FULL SHOT: Lenny finally flings Hi away.
HI: Landing in the dust, all the fight beaten out of him.
LENNY: Tired of the fight: He saws out both shotguns
THE HAMMERS: On the guns as Lenny's thumbs draw them back. He raises the guns to fire.
HI: The end of the road. He wearily lifts a hand, defensively extending it in front of him - then stops, staring at:
HI'S HAND: A hand grenade pin hangs, glinting, from one of his fingers. Pawing at Lenny's chest he must have hooked his finger through its ring.
HI: Reacting to Hi reacting. He looks down.
LENNY: Reacting to Hi reacting. He looks down.
LENNY'S CHEST: On the bandoliers across his chest, silver pins glint in all the grenades - except one. Its squeeze-lever juts at a right angle from the grenade.
LENNY'S FACE: Hi's jaw drops.
LENNY'S FEET: The lit cheroot hits the ground between his boots.
HI: Scrambling to his feet.
LENNY: Trying to drop the shotguns to free his hands. In his panic his fingers tangle in the trigger guards.
HI: Starting to run.
LENNY: Finally freeing his hands.
HI: Diving behind the parked car.
LENNY'S CHEST: His hands fly in to wrap around the grenade - too late - bright light:
LENNY: Blows sky-high. There is a roar as if the earth were cracking open and flame as if hell were slipping out. We pan the fire to the sky.
FADE OUT: A white aluminum ladder rises up into the blackness, clanking softly. The top of the ladder arcs toward the camera.
JUMP BACK: To the interior of the Arizona second-story nursery as the ladder comes to rest against the window frame. It is late at night; the nursery is dark and empty.
THE HEADBOARD: Of the unpainted crib with the burned-in names: Harry, Barry, Larry, Garry, and Nathan Jr. As we pull back from the headboard Ed's arms are gently depositing the sleeping Nathan Jr. into the crib. Hi puts the singed copy of Dr. Spock's Baby and Child Care next to the baby.
REVERSE: Hi and Ed looking sadly down at the baby. The silence is broken by the bleat of a squeeze-me toy as the lights are snapped on. Hi and Ed turn, startled.
NURSERY DOORWAY: Nathan stands in his jammies, hair disheveled, holding a gun and squinting against the light. Keeping the gun trained on Hi and Ed, he slowly raises a pair of eyeglasses to his nose.
NATHAN: The hell is goin' on? He advances cautiously into the nursery, gesturing with his .Get away from there. Hi and Ed back away from the crib. Nathan peers in and studies the baby for a moment. He lays the gun down, tenderly picks up the baby and holds him to his chest. A tear forms at the corner of his eye. Hi and Ed are quietly moving back towards the ladder.
NATHAN: .Get away from there. Hi and Ed back away from the crib. Nathan peers in and studies the baby for a moment. He lays the gun down, tenderly picks up the baby and holds him to his chest. A tear forms at the corner of his eye. Hi and Ed are quietly moving back towards the ladder.
NATHAN: ( sharply ) Hi and Ed Stop.
NATHAN: .I ain't through with you. What're you doin' creepin' around here in the dark? You in with Smalls?
HI: .Scuse me? As he bounces the baby, studying Hi and Ed:
NATHAN: Leonard Smalls, big fella rides a Harley, dresses like a rock star?
HI: No sir, that's who we saved him from. It's a long story.
NATHAN: Suppose you tell it.
HI: Well, sir, in a re-ward situation, they usually say no questions asked.
NATHAN: Do they. Hi shrugs. Nathan turns to put the baby back in the crib.
NATHAN: .All right, boy, I guess you got a re-ward coming. Twenty thousand He turns around with a thought:
NATHAN: .Or, if you need home furnishings, I can give you a fine of credit at any of my stores. Fact, that's the way I'd rather handle it, for tax Nathan throws his hands up in the air.
HI: Nathan throws his hands up in the air.
NATHAN: But it's up to you.
HI: Tell you the truth, I think we'd prefer the ca-
ED: We don't want no reward. Hi does a small take, surprised at this much integrity.
ED: .We didn't bring him back for money.
NATHAN: Well, we could work it that way too.
ED: Could I just look at him a little bit more? She stands looking into the crib. Hi steps up next to her and puts an arm around her shoulder.
NATHAN: Be my guest, young lady. but would you mind tellin' me exactly how you- Ed starts crying softly as she gazes into the crib. Hi murmurs something to comfort her. Nathan is studying the two of them.
NATHAN: .You took him, didn't you? Wasn't that biker a'tal. Hi turns to face him. He speaks in a rush.
HI: I took him, sir, my wife had nothin' to do with it. I crept in yon window We both did it. We didn't wanna hurt him any; I just wanted to be a mama.
ED: ( still crying ) We both did it. We didn't wanna hurt him any; I just wanted to be a mama.
HI: It wasn't for money or nothin'. We just figured you had more'n you could handle, babywise. But I'm the one committed the actual crime sir, if you need to call the authorities-
NATHAN: Shutup boy, no one's callin' the authorities if there's no harm done.
HI: Thank you sir.
ED: Thank you sir.
NATHAN: Aw bullshit. Just tell me - just tell me why you did it.
ED: We can't have our own. Nathan looks at her. Finally he nods and sighs.
NATHAN: .Well lookit. If you can't have kids you gotta just keep tryin' and hope medical science catches up with you. Like Florence'n me - it caught up with a vengeance. And hell, even if it never does, you still got each Sir, those're kind words. But I think the wife and me are splittin' up. He indicates Ed with a nod of the head.
HI: Sir, those're kind words. But I think the wife and me are splittin' up. He indicates Ed with a nod of the head.
HI: .Her point of view is we're both kinda selfish and unrealistic, so we ain't too good for each other.
NATHAN: Well ma'am, I don't know much but I do know human bein's. You brought back my boy so you must have your good points too. I'd sure hate to think of Florence leavin' me - I do love her so. He clears his throat and turns to the door. His tone is harder .You can go out the way you came He snaps off the lights.
NATHAN: .You can go out the way you came He snaps off the lights.
NATHAN: .And before you go off and do another foolish thing, like busting up, I suggest you sleep on it. He has disappeared into the hall. We hear his voice receding:
NATHAN: .at least one night.
HIGH SHOT: Looking straight down at Hi, asleep in the trailer bedroom. We start to crane down.
VOICE OVER: That night I had a dream.
VOICE OVER: .I dreamt I was as light as the ether, a floating spirit visiting things to come.
VOICE OVER: The shades and shadows of the people in my life wrastled their way into my slumber.
VOICE OVER: I dreamt that Gale and Evelle had decided to return to prison. Evelle is starting to climb into the hole.
VOICE OVER: .Probably that's just as well. I don't mean to sound superior, and they're a swell couple guys, but. Evelle has disappeared and Gale starts climbing in.
VOICE OVER: .maybe they weren't ready yet to come out into the world.
VOICE OVER: And then I dreamed on, into the future, to a Christmas morn in the Arizona home.
VOICE OVER: .where Nathan Jr. was opening a present from a kindly couple who preferred to remain unknown. We have been isolating in on one of the children peeling the wrappings off a package marked to Nathan Jr. Inside is a shiny red plastic football.
VOICE OVER: I saw Glen, a few years later, still havin' no luck gettin' the cops to listen to his wild tales about me'n Glen is grinning and talking with his hands cupped in front of him, as when he told Hi about the Pollack who almost stepped in the pile of shit. The trooper, in crash helmet and dark sunglasses, is listening tight-lipped and stone-faced as Glen finishes his story and slaps his knee.
VOICE OVER: .Maybe he threw in one Pollack joke too many. The trooper is clicking open his ballpoint pen and reaching his citation book from his breast pocket. The name tag on the pocket says "SGT. KOWALSKI."
VOICE OVER: .I don't know.
VOICE OVER: And still I dreamed on. A cleated foot boots the football out of frame.
VOICE OVER: .further into the future than I'd ever dreamed before.
VOICE OVER: .Watching Nathan Jr.'s progress from afar. He catches the ball and starts running.
VOICE OVER: .Taking pride in his accomplishments as if he were our own. He is skillfully eluding and stiff-arming tacklers.
VOICE OVER: .Wondering if he ever thought of He reaches the end zone and triumphantly spikes the football. He whips off his helmet and we track in on the face of the rosy-cheeked high-school bruiser.
VOICE OVER: .and hoping that maybe we'd broadened his horizons a little, even if he couldn't remember just how they'd got broadened.
VOICE OVER: But still I hadn't dreamt nothin' about me'n Ed. Until the end.
A COUPLE: The man and woman are sitting on a sofa in the foreground with their backs to the camera. They are in the living room of Hi and Ed's trailer, which is suffused with a warm golden As they face the trailer's front door, all we see of the couple is the backs of their heads. They both have white hair, the woman's pulled into a bun. The old man wears a cardigan, the woman a shawl.
VOICE OVER: .And this was cloudier 'cause it was years, years away. The front door bursts open. Two young couples are entering as their kids - about a dozen of them - stream in around The old couple on the couch raise their arms to embrace their visitors. The children boil onto the couch.
VOICE OVER: .But I saw an old couple bein' visited by their children - and all their grandchildren too. And the old couple wasn't screwed up, and neither were their kids or their grandkids. And I don't know, you tell me. This whole dream, was it wishful thinking? Was I just fleein' reality, like I know I'm liable to do?
HOME KIDS!": The grandchildren are running into frame and taking their seats at the table, accompanied by their parents.
VOICE OVER: .But me'n Ed, we can be good too. The elderly couple enter from either side of the camera and stand in the foreground, backs to us, facing the table.
VOICE OVER: .And it seemed real. It seemed like us. And it seemed like well. our home. If not Arizona, then a land, not too far away, where all parents are strong and wise and capable, and all children are happy and beloved. I dunno, maybe it was The elderly man drapes an arm around his wife's shoulder and draws her close. She rests her head against his shoulder, and we:
FADE OUT: THE END Writers : Joel Coen Ethan Coen
THE END: Writers : Joel Coen Ethan Coen
