TITLE SEQUENCE: EXT. V.A. HOSPITAL - DAY A drab GREEN SEDAN with U.S. ARMY printed on the door stops at the steps of a fortress-like colonial-style Iron bars cover the windows. The lawn sprinklers snap mindlessly to themselves. A CRT-style printout appears at the bottom of FRAME:
LEWIS: Shit. Maintenance never gets down They descend two flights to a door of steel bars on a sliding track. The MPs flank Lewis as he unlocks the door.
SINGLETERRY: So what am I supposed to do? Can't transfer him to Leavenworth. He's civilian. So I put him in an isolation cell that hasn't been used since the Spanish Inquisition.
TRAUTMAN: Maybe you should have tried cutting him some slack. Lewis opens a cabinet near the single locked cell and removes a SMALL RIFLE. He feeds a SYRINGE-LIKE SHELL into the single-shot bolt action.
TRAUTMAN: ( continuing ) What's that?
SINGLETERRY: Tranquilizer syrette gun. Borrowed it from the Animal Control Trautman pushes the barrel aside with a contemptuous snort and steps up to the cell door.
TRAUTMAN: Gimme a break. Open it. The two MPs flank the door. One pulls on the latching lever. Bolts slide. The door swings open, revealing Thinks he's the fucking Prince of One MP tries the switch beside the cell, flicking it several times. Nothing. He glances apprehensively at the other MP and they step into the dark cell.
LEWIS: ( muttering ) Thinks he's the fucking Prince of One MP tries the switch beside the cell, flicking it several times. Nothing. He glances apprehensively at the other MP and they step into the dark cell.
TRAUTMAN: At ease, Rambo.
TRAUTMAN: ( continuing to MPs ) Wait outside. He closes the door until it latches.
TRAUTMAN: Hello, John.
RAMBO: Mind if I sit down? Rambo motions to the narrow bunk, dropping into an Oriental squat himself as the Colonel sits. Trautman's manner with Rambo is familiar, somehow paternal. A bit of an ironic grin twitches briefly.
TRAUTMAN: Mind if I sit down? Rambo motions to the narrow bunk, dropping into an Oriental squat himself as the Colonel sits. Trautman's manner with Rambo is familiar, somehow paternal. A bit of an ironic grin twitches briefly.
TRAUTMAN: ( continuing ) I hear you're not enjoying it here.
RAMBO: I could take it or leave it. Trautman sighs and leans back.
TRAUTMAN: Seems like I'm always pulling you out of some goddamn toilet or other, doesn't it?
RAMBO: Am I out of here?
TRAUTMAN: That depends on you. Christ, look at you. I give you this easy duty until I can get you an assignment. all you have to do is eat ice cream and watch soap operas. and you have to make it Rambo's last stand.
RAMBO: There were treating me like a Hard to believe. You shoot up one little town in Oregon with a fifty caliber machine gun. one little dogpatch town. and everybody figures your wrapper's broken. No sense of humor. What did you expect? An engraved plague from the chamber of commerce? Rambo looks at his hands. When he finally speaks his voice seems distant, disembodied.
TRAUTMAN: Hard to believe. You shoot up one little town in Oregon with a fifty caliber machine gun. one little dogpatch town. and everybody figures your wrapper's broken. No sense of humor. What did you expect? An engraved plague from the chamber of commerce? Rambo looks at his hands. When he finally speaks his voice seems distant, disembodied.
RAMBO: In 'Nam I flew gunships. Million dollar equipment. Back here nobody trusts me to park cars. I keep thinking it's going to be okay. but I've been out six years and it's not okay. Sometimes I feel like I'm coming right out of my skin. The colonel nods slowly. He notices a battered shoebox on the floor beside the bed. The cell is absolutely devoid of personal articles otherwise.
TRAUTMAN: This your stuff?
RAMBO: That's it. My life.
TRAUTMAN: Hardcore outfit. The best I ever Those men are all dead.
RAMBO: ( coldly ) Those men are all dead.
TRAUTMAN: ( glancing up ) You're not. He fishes something from among the pathetic debris of Rambo's life.
TRAUTMAN: ( continuing ) Congressional Medal of Honor.
RAMBO: ( bitterly ) Yeah. Big time.
TRAUTMAN: Plus, what else? Two Silver Stars, four Bronze Stars, two Soldier's Medals, four Vietnamese Crosses of Gallantry and. uh, a handful of Purple Hearts.
RAMBO: Five. I never wanted that stuff.
TRAUTMAN: What did you want?
RAMBO: ( haltingly ) I just wanted. I don't know. after all that. I just wanted one person, one person, to come up to me and say "you did good, John." And mean it. That's all. ( pause ) After all that.
TRAUTMAN: You just picked that wrong war to be a hero in. The colonel studies Rambo a moment, then stands abruptly.
TRAUTMAN: ( continuing ) Let's take a walk.
TRAUTMAN: Jason Kirkhill. John Rambo. Kirkhill extends his hand in greeting, but Rambo coolly half-turns to reveal his hands, locked in WRIST-CUFFS separated by a steel bar so that they can hang comfortably at his sides. Kirkhill grins affably. Drops his hand.
KIRKHILL: Good to meet you, Rambo. How are Rambo scans Kirkhill's face, noting the cold scrutiny all but concealed in the smile lines.
RAMBO: ( coldly ) You a spook? Kirkhill drops the smile.
KIRKHILL: That's right. CIA Special Operations Division. Rambo turns to Trautman.
RAMBO: I don't work with spooks. Not after that op in Cambodia.
KIRKHILL: I'm authorized to get you out of here. I thought that's what you What's the job?
RAMBO: ( considering ) What's the job?
KIRKHILL: Classic special forces op. hit fast. in and out. Two men. Two Why me?
RAMBO: Why me?
KIRKHILL: ( shrugs non- We like you. ( pause ) At least the computer at Langley likes you. Pulled your file because of various factors. Service record. Area familiarity.
RAMBO: Not yet.
KIRKHILL: Not yet.
RAMBO: I'm not jumping blind. Kirkhill's eyes get hard.
KIRKHILL: It's yes or no. In or out. now. If it's "out," we will not have had this conversation. If you come in, you will not be working for us. No knowledge. No comment. Do you Rambo seems about to turn away.
TRAUTMAN: ( to Kirkhill ) Tell him. I'll take responsibility. Kirkhill looks pained, like he has gas.
KIRKHILL: North Vietnam. What they call the Democratic Republic of Vietnam now.
TRAUTMAN: We left some people behind there, John. POWs.
RAMBO: This just occurred to somebody, now?
KIRKHILL: We don't leave our men, Rambo. Rambo and Trautman lock eyes. Something flows there. Trautman knows his soul.
RAMBO: You got it. I'm in. He whips one hand around from his side, tossing the manacle bar at a surprised Kirkhill's feet. The wrist-cuffs are still closed.
WIDER: as the platoon marches past, EXITING FRAME to reveal a sign mounted beside a security checkpoint in a formidable chain-link fence.
OPERATIONS CENTER: INT. CORRIDOR Kirkhill, accompanied by his basilisk-eyed AIDE, strides past Rambo's two MPs flanking the door, into a small INT. BRIEFING ROOM The room is an austere cubicle with the army's typically drab furniture in "early functional." The cold eye of a surveillance camera stares down at a single table with a seated figure. Rambo, looking like he may have been there for centuries. The aide hands Rambo a sealed folder and extends a clipboard and pen for him to sign off.
KIRKHILL: This is your mission packet.
AIDE: ( quietly overlapping ) Sign here, please. And here.
KIRKHILL: Memorize it here. It doesn't leave this room. Rambo unseals the folder, removing a sheaf of photocopied documents, as Kirkhill perches on the table next to him.
KIRKHILL: ( continuing ) The twenty-four hundred American servicemen missing in action in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia are officially listed "Presumed Killed." Certainly most of them Rambo is leafing through the contents of his PACKET. He skips a stack of reports and fishes out several grainy 8 X 10 prints.
KIRKHILL: ( continuing ) But reports keep filtering in. Sightings by refugees. Nothing verified. Finally, we feel we've got enough to proceed on. Rambo studies the prints. They seem to be high altitude surveillance photos of a small COMPOUND OF BUILDINGS, surrounded by forests.
KIRKHILL: ( continuing ) Memo E-7 on top will cover the details. An abandoned Vietnamese Army base in the North-central highlands may have a compound used as an internment camp. As you can see the intelligence is soft. These LANDSAT photos show huts. barracks. It could be anything.
RAMBO: ( flat ) What's the plan?
KIRKHILL: This operation is in two phases. Recon and rescue. You are phase one. Your two-man team will probe the site, confirm the presence of American POWs, if any, make photographic and tactical observations, then proceed to the extraction point without engaging the enemy.
RAMBO: We don't try to pull out any of our guys if we find them?
KIRKHILL: Negative. Absolutely not. The phase two assault team will get them We just take pictures?
RAMBO: ( not pleased ) We just take pictures?
KIRKHILL: Don't look so disappointed. It should be hairy enough. even for INT. DON MUANG AIRPORT - LATE AFTERNOON Kirkhill's VOICE continues over the image of: The crowded airport terminal, as Rambo, carrying a cheap flight bag, weaves among jostling Orientals.
BANGKOK, THAILAND: Bangkok is a city of fervid motion and the street is chaotic with traffic. Stepping through throngs of Asians and tourists Rambo reaches for the door of a beat-to-hell Citroen taxi hunkered low at the curb like some metal lungfish. He spins as a hand lightly touches his shoulder.
MAN: Sorry old buddy, I saw it first. An American in his late twenties, the man speaks with one of those hard-to-dislike Southern accents. Probably North He is lanky but muscular, with boyish good looks and hair cut so short it barely qualifies as stubble. Though dressed in a loud Hawaiian shirt and Madras slacks, it is painfully obvious the man is military. His arm is draped around a gorgeous but overly made-up Thai girl.
MAN: ( affable ) I kinda got an important date. Rambo's eyes narrow as he turns wordlessly and climbs into the taxi. The American grins cockily and tosses his bag to Rambo.
MAN: No problem. We'll share it. Get your tail in there, sweet thing.
MAN: ( to driver ) Indra Hotel. And don't take the scenic route, Smiley. I know my way around this burg. Comprende? Rambo speaks quietly to the driver in Thai.
RAMBO: ( Thai/subtitled ) Same place for me. The girl giggles as the American slips his hand up from her stockinged knee, between her thighs.
MAN: Ah, you fair flower of the Orient. She giggles, like a chirping bird.
MAN: ( continuing to Rambo ) She thinks everything I say is funny. Don't you, Angel-pie? Man, Thai women are the best. Got the kinda legs I like. feet at one end and pussy at the other. He turns to Rambo, who hasn't commented or taken any observable notice of him.
MAN: ( continuing ) You don't say a helluva lot, do you, pal? You speak English?
RAMBO: ( coldly ) The girl coos to the American in pidgin English.
THAI GIRL: You got money? I stay you whole Sweet thing, there's nothin' I'd like more than to wugga-wugga with you for a week, but tonight's all we He lowers his voice conspiratorially, leaning close to See, I'm on this secret mission, and tomorrow mornin' I head out to. Rambo grabs the man brutally by his collar.
MAN: Sweet thing, there's nothin' I'd like more than to wugga-wugga with you for a week, but tonight's all we He lowers his voice conspiratorially, leaning close to See, I'm on this secret mission, and tomorrow mornin' I head out to. Rambo grabs the man brutally by his collar.
MAN: ( continuing ) See, I'm on this secret mission, and tomorrow mornin' I head out to. Rambo grabs the man brutally by his collar.
RAMBO: That's enough, Brewer. The American freezes at the sound of his name. Turns You're Rambo? Rambo speaks sharply to the girl in Thai.
BREWER: ( realizing ) You're Rambo? ( pause ) Rambo speaks sharply to the girl in Thai.
RAMBO: ( Thai/subtitled ) Get out. Now! The driver, confused, skids to a stop and the girl gets out into the din of a cluttered shop district. A flash of slit skirt and then only fading curses behind them as the taxi moves on.
BREWER: ( brightening ) Jeez, I never would have guessed. You undercover, Lieutenant? Great INT. INDRA HOTEL ROOM - DUSK Trautman, sipping a gin tonic at the window, spins around as the door flies open. Brewer storms in, followed a few paces back by Rambo, who closes the door.
BREWER: ( to Trautman ) He says he's team leader on this That's correct.
TRAUTMAN: That's correct.
BREWER: ( controlling his Begging the Colonel's pardon but I understood I was up to lead my next Not this one. You're on communications and camera. Same image-intensified gear you used in El Salvador last year.
TRAUTMAN: Not this one. You're on communications and camera. Same image-intensified gear you used in El Salvador last year.
RAMBO: This clown almost blew mission security on the street. I'm not jumping with him.
BREWER: ( spinning ) Clown? Now back up there, buddy.
TRAUTMAN: ( sharply ) Listen up. You two are married as of now. Get used to it.
RAMBO: ( to Trautman ) I say we tape him to a chair.
KIRKHILL: I didn't know you were a stick man, I was crossed-trained in gunships.
RAMBO: I was crossed-trained in gunships.
TRAUTMAN: ( to Kirkhill ) How long have you been setting up?
KIRKHILL: About 22 hours on site.
TRAUTMAN: Nice work. They pass a tent-like CAMOUFLAGE CANOPY under which an ALL-BLACK SIKORSKY UH-60 "BLACKHAWK" HELICOPTER squats ominously. It has no markings or insignia. There is another canopy behind it, the contents of which are screened from view. Nearby is a cluster of CONEX AIRLIFT CONTAINERS, two of which are joined together to form a building like a double-wide mobile home. Another unit contains a roaring generator, a fourth is topped by TRACKING GEAR. Cables snake through the mud, connecting the units. Kirkhill notices THREE WORK PARTY "GRUNTS" kibitzing nearby, taking pictures of each other with a pocket Instamatic. He snatches the camera from a surprised young This is a covert operation, He opens the camera and drops the film in the mud. The corporal reaches petulantly for the camera. Kirkhill drops it casually in the mud as well.
KIRKHILL: This is a covert operation, He opens the camera and drops the film in the mud. The corporal reaches petulantly for the camera. Kirkhill drops it casually in the mud as well.
KIRKHILL: ( to Trautman Check out the command hut. He opens the door to the large conex unit and follows the others inside.
BREWER: Mission control! They wipe their muddy feet and enter the air-conditioned command center. Rambo gazes around at the jumble of gear. He runs his hand over one console, causing a seated technician to glare at him.
RAMBO: All this is for us?
KIRKHILL: That's right.
BREWER: ( to Rambo ) They call us the field-unit meat- INT./ EXT. CAMOUFLAGE CANOPY - DAY Rambo and Brewer walk in under an expanse of net camouflage on poles. Sunlight streams through the foliage cover, creating bright mottles on a black object F.G. CAMERA PULLS BACK and BOOMS UP as Rambo moves forward to reveal the object as an ALL-BLACK JET. It is a modified Gulfstream "Peregrine," a small sleek single-engine executive model, with all insignia and I.D. numbers MED. ON RAMBO AND BREWER as they consider the aircraft.
BREWER: Ever do this from a jet?
RAMBO: VOICE ( O.S. ) It's easy. They turn to see a lanky long-haired man in a leather flying jacket duck under the fuselage from the far side and approach them.
MAN: ( grinning ) Just have to jump fast. Two other air crewmen jump down from the open rear passenger door of the plane.
RAMBO: You the pilot?
MAN: ( extending hand ) Yeah. Doyle. ( he gestures to the Lifer and Fuhrman. Doyle is a product of the sixties' school of ultra-cool, his brain a little torched by too many methed-out night- Fuhrman, the co-pilot, grins too much and Lifer's eyes are just plain scary.
RAMBO: You boys Air Force?
DOYLE: Marines. 'Ex' though. We're private contractors now.
LIFER: You ever do a tour 'in-country'?
RAMBO: Two. 'Eye-corps' mostly.
DOYLE: ( to Brewer ) How about you?
BREWER: ( defensive ) Vietnam was a little before my time. So was Korea, know what I mean? Rambo and Doyle glance at each other. solidarity before new-meat bozos.
ON DOYLE: Gesturing as he continues.
DOYLE: A straight dash across the Laotian panhandle, through the Annamese Mountains. some good dicey bits there. and on to the drop zone. Eighteen minutes each way in communist airspace.
RAMBO: We go low to stay off radar?
DOYLE: In the rhubarb, babe.
FUHRMAN: ( grinning ) Mowin' the lawn.
LIFER: Dig it.
TRAUTMAN: How long before you're fully on Couple hours. Let me buy you a He turns to a vending machine nestled improbably between two racks of electronics.
KIRKHILL: Couple hours. Let me buy you a He turns to a vending machine nestled improbably between two racks of electronics.
TRAUTMAN: You think they'll find any?
KIRKHILL: ( feeding in change ) POWs? I don't know. But either way it'll get that subcommittee off our necks. Cream?
TRAUTMAN: Black. No sugar.
KIRKHILL: The League of Families leans on Congress. Then they lean on us. Like we don't have enough to worry about in a dozen dirtwater countries. Damnit! He pounds the machine, which refuses to vend. Trautman watches the Special Operations Officer banging ineffectually on the COIN RETURN, amid a million dollars worth of equipment.
DOYLE: A couple klicks from insertion we go vertical to ten thousand and you punch out. Navigate in free fall like a regular HALO jump. You'll have a good moon.
LIFER: ( to himself ) I got your moon right here.
BREWER: No problem. Duck soup. Doyle notices that Brewer has casually lit up a cigarette.
DOYLE: Hey, man. we got fuel on the deck. I don't like flying without a plane. Brewer glances at the pool of jet fuel around the pumping Rambo plucks the cigarette from Brewer's lips.
RAMBO: No smoking on this mission. It's not healthy. He looks Brewer in the eye and flicks the lit butt into the pool of gas. Which puts it out.
BREWER: Son of a bitch! Rambo saunters away.
DOYLE: ( appreciatively ) Nice trick. Works nine times out of EXT. BASE CAMP - RUNWAY - DUSK The steel planking of the pre-fabricated runway rings under their feet as Rambo and Brewer run laps. Brewer, between breaths, is chanting a monologue as they draw Insertion. Call in to base camp by TRANSAT. Proceed to point Tango November for rendezvous with our ground contact. Indigenous agent. Co Phuong Bao. ( in same tone ) We've been over this three times.
RAMBO: Insertion. Call in to base camp by TRANSAT. Proceed to point Tango November for rendezvous with our ground contact. Indigenous agent. Co Phuong Bao. We've been over this three times.
BREWER: Insertion. Call in to base camp by TRANSAT. Proceed to point Tango November for rendezvous with our ground contact. Indigenous agent. Co Phuong Bao. We've been over this three times.
RAMBO: You stopped. Brewer rolls his eyes.
BREWER: Co Phuong Bao. The guide takes us twelve klicks upriver to target at Ban. at Ban. Bo Peep. Shit!
RAMBO: ( flatly ) Start over.
BREWER: ( mechanically ) . to target at Ban Kia Na. We probe the site.
RAMBO: ( to himself . then proceed downriver to extraction at point Echo Delta. Doyle takes us out by helicopter, we all live happily ever after and that's the last time, Rambo! I swear to Christ.
BREWER: . then proceed downriver to extraction at point Echo Delta. Doyle takes us out by helicopter, we all live happily ever after and that's the last time, Rambo! I swear to Christ.
RAMBO: One hundred. They both collapse, face-down, breathing heavily. Brewer rises first.
BREWER: Gettin' old, huh?
RAMBO: ( pause ) Second set. Let's go. When Rambo rises it is in pushup position, only this time using one arm. He starts. One, two, three.
BREWER: Transponder-satellite relay.
BREWER: ( continuing ) The signal's coded into infrared pulses, picked up by the spy satellite, bounced to the ground station in Okinawa and relayed to the hut. He points to the MTOC nearby.
BREWER: ( continuing ) No radio source. Nothing for the bad guys to triangulate on.
RAMBO: Show me how it operates.
BREWER: That's what I'm here for.
RAMBO: Show me in case you get zapped as soon as we land.
BREWER: ( frustrated ) We're leaving tonight, not in a He sees Rambo's expression.
BREWER: Alright. Alright.
DETAIL: With surgical precision he hones the trigger mechanism of a FLAT-BLACK CROSSBOW PISTOL.
ANGLE: Rambo raises the crossbow, cocked but empty. CLICK. It fires smoothly, to his satisfaction.
WIDER: revealing Brewer surrounded by shipping crates. He sets the scope on a long empty table and attacks another crate, working under a harsh fluorescent lighting unit.
BREWER: Yeah. Why not?
RAMBO: You break your leg, I'll have to shoot you. He turns and vanishes in the dark.
DOYLE: I think he means it.
BREWER: Crazy fucker.
DOYLE: Well, son. You got that right. Anybody ever tell you about that Brewer turns quizzically toward him.
BREWER: What about him?
RAMBO: Let's do it.
TRAUTMAN: Keep it clean, Rambo, or I'll nail your hide to the shed.
RAMBO: You got it, sir. Trautman exits and the steps are rolled away.
DOYLE: Zen Rollercoaster, requesting You are cleared, Zen Rollercoaster.
VOICE: ( filtered ) You are cleared, Zen Rollercoaster.
FUHRMAN: Switching communications to burst INT. MTOC Kirkhill and Trautman are hunched at the main console.
TECHNICIAN: AWACS Two-Five has acquired. They are holding timeline. Trautman watches the glowing dot representing the drop-jet crawling almost imperceptibly across a computer-generated map of Central Laos.
DOYLE: ( into mike ) Here comes the sexy part.
BREWER: Whoo-ya! I love it!
RAMBO: ( to Brewer via Stay tight on me, Brewer. I don't want to have to go looking for you.
BREWER: INT. MTOC A TECHNICIAN turns from the secondary console.
TECHNICIAN: AWACS Niner-One via Subic Bay reports them approaching insertion. EXT. PEREGRINE D-MINUS TWO MINUTES The mountains fall behind and the tiny jet hurtles down across the foothills, flying nap-of-the-earth.
FARMER: ( Viet/subtitled ) Son of a bitch!
DOYLE: Approaching ten thousand. Eleven seconds to insertion. Ten, nine. Slowing to two-thirty. The ready light changes from red to yellow. Rambo unbuckles from his seat. Rises. Brewer follows. Lifer steadies them at the door.
DOYLE: ( continuing ) . three seconds. Two. One. Have a nice day. The ready-light turns GREEN.
LIFER: Rambo takes a single, powerful running stride from the opposite wall and is out the door. Gone. Brewer is right behind him.
RAMBO: ( shouting into mike ) You read me, Brewer?
RAMBO: Home on my strobe.
ON BREWER: diving skillfully. He sees the distant flash of Rambo's strobe below him and banks toward it like a fighter plane. He comes alongside the Team Leader and they dive together. Rambo cuts the strobe. ANGLE DOWN as a solid layer of cloud rushes up. They plunge through and the landscape below is an awesome vista. An unbroken carpet of dark rain forest with a narrow, meandering river, like a platinum ribbon. Rambo sights on a distant bend in the river, spreads his feet and dives. Brewer follows. They shoot across the uprushing landscape at 135 mph.
RAMBO'S POV: looking down past his swaying feet as the moonlit jungle rushes up. and up. A mahogany tree lunges like a huge hand. The dark maw swallows us in blackness.
RAMBO: ( to himself ) Man, what are you doing back here? Brewer's voice is a reedy chirp from his headset. He raises it to his ear.
RAMBO: You okay?
RAMBO: ( a freezing whisper ) That's one. Brewer pauses a moment, assimilating the implicit warning. Then reaches for his harness buckles to free himself.
WIDER: revealing Brewer hunched over the tiny CRT screen atop the transponder box, typing at a keyboard the size of a pocket Rambo squats motionless, watching intently. Brewer hits the "SEND" button.
TECH: It's coming in. Kirkhill watches the message print out on the main screen. Turns to Trautman.
KIRKHILL: They're in! On the money. A cheer goes up in the command center. The home team just EXT. RAIN FOREST - CLEARING Rambo squats, studying his WATERPROOF TERRAIN MAP. He glances at Brewer who has finished assembling his weapons and gear.
RAMBO: What do you call that?
BREWER: ( crisply ) Modified M-16 A2 and over-under M-79 grenade launcher, with Sionics sound suppressor, Tracor starlight scope and LAC/R-100 Laser sighting system.
RAMBO: Batteries not included.
BREWER: ( wounded ) This is state-of-the-art firepower. Rambo picks up another device, a cylinder like a flashlight with a curly-cord running to a pair of What's this?
RAMBO: What's this?
BREWER: AC-System 'Big-Ear' telescopic mike with built-in audio processor. Can pull a whisper out of a loud cocktail party at 50 meters. Rambo gazes around him.
RAMBO: Cocktail party. Uh huh, right. Let's saddle up.
BREWER: Where's your stuff? Rambo flips open his rucksack.
BREWER: ( incredulous ) That's it? Some C-4, a map and a There's a compass in the handle. Brewer gestures at the Russian-made AK-47 slung over Rambo's shoulder.
RAMBO: There's a compass in the handle. Brewer gestures at the Russian-made AK-47 slung over Rambo's shoulder.
BREWER: And a beat-to-shit AK? Every twelve-year-old in Nam's got one of Brewer hefts the separate rucksack containing the TRANSAT.
RAMBO: Brewer hefts the separate rucksack containing the TRANSAT.
BREWER: Uh. this thing's pretty heavy. You got room for it? Rambo snorts disgustedly.
BREWER: Just a thought.
BREWER: You wanna know why I stood up for this show?
RAMBO: ( moving off ) I was in the brig. They gave me a deal. I blew up this Colonel's golf cart with an M-19. He wasn't in it or anything. it was the symbolic value. Seemed like a good idea at the time.
BREWER: I was in the brig. They gave me a deal. I blew up this Colonel's golf cart with an M-19. He wasn't in it or anything. it was the symbolic value. Seemed like a good idea at the time.
RAMBO: That's a real good reason to wind up in 'Nam.
BREWER: I've seen worse places.
RAMBO: There are no worse places.
WIDER: as the two walk into the atrium of a RUINED "WAT", or BUDDHIST TEMPLE. Brewer looks awed.
BREWER: ( hushed ) This place is a trip.
RAMBO: Buddhist monastery. Fifteenth Damn! Leeches. He has pulled up his pant-leg to reveal THREE SQUIRMING BLACK WORMS attached to his calf, sucking on him. Rambo moves off, scanning, unconcerned.
BREWER: Damn! Leeches. He has pulled up his pant-leg to reveal THREE SQUIRMING BLACK WORMS attached to his calf, sucking on him. Rambo moves off, scanning, unconcerned.
RAMBO: Get used to 'em.
BREWER: ( hissing ) You fucking crazy? I need it to burn these things off.
RAMBO: No cigarettes.
BREWER: I had it cupped. Rambo takes the pack from Brewer's breast pocket and grinds it into the mud under his boot.
BREWER: Look, Rambo. I've had enough of your bad-ass Indian-scout bullshit. You're years out of date. I'm makin' a career out of teaching you the hardware. As far as I'm concerned you're just along to back me up. And I heard about you. about how twitchy you really are. Kill any civilians lately? Brewer is hurled against a stone wall and pinned with a knife to his throat so rapidly he's not sure how it happened. Rambo is in his face, speaking very softly.
RAMBO: Listen real careful, freshmeat. I don't know why they sent you. Maybe they didn't want to waste a good man. But you screw up once more and I'll kill you myself. Rambo whips away, moves quietly off. Shaking with rage, Brewer levels his weapon at Rambo's back. Then he realizes how silly that would be. Frustrated, he jogs to catch up.
BREWER: Man, are you strict. Moving in the shadows, Rambo walks through the ruins noiselessly. A voice emerges from the mist behind them, an almost childlike lilt.
WOMAN: You come here see Buddha. ask for truth? Or just lost?
BREWER: ( whispering ) Should I waste her? Rambo pushes his rifle barrel aside and takes a step forward. When he speaks it is in FLUENT VIETNAMESE.
RAMBO: ( Viet/subtitled ) I'm not lost. Just looking for ( Viet/subtitled ) Someone called maybe 'Night Orchid'?
WOMAN: ( Viet/subtitled ) Someone called maybe 'Night Orchid'?
RAMBO: ( Viet/subtitled ) That's right.
WOMAN: ( Viet/subtitled ) I'm Co Phuong Bao.
RAMBO: ( to Brewer ) She's our contact.
BREWER: ( grudgingly I didn't know you spoke Vietnamese. Co slides down from the ledge and stands before them, almost two heads shorter than Rambo. Her lithe figure is not entirely concealed by her loose black "pajamas". She wears her hair in a long single braid and has the delicate hands of a child.
RAMBO: I'm Rambo. This is Brewer. Her name is Co.
CO: It means "virgin." My mother was Howdy, Co. He sticks out his hand but Rambo motions "no". She bows Uh, you speak pretty good English. Where'd you learn?
BREWER: Howdy, Co. He sticks out his hand but Rambo motions "no". She bows Uh, you speak pretty good English. Where'd you learn?
BREWER: Uh, you speak pretty good English. Where'd you learn?
CO: University of Saigon. Have Masters Degree in economics. Not use too much now. Communists in charge. You got time. want to eat?
RAMBO: Sure. Whattaya got? Co reaches up onto the ledge, her previous perch, and pulls down a small PACK, actually a FOOD TUBE of the sort worn over one shoulder by Viet Cong and other Vietnamese Nuac mam. She unrolls several rubber tree leaves holding rice with a pungent sauce. Rambo takes the food and the proffered CHOPSTICKS and, squatting, begins shoveling it expertly.
CO: ( opening it ) Nuac mam. She unrolls several rubber tree leaves holding rice with a pungent sauce. Rambo takes the food and the proffered CHOPSTICKS and, squatting, begins shoveling it expertly.
RAMBO: You really got a Masters Degree?
CO: Sure. I only sound like forty-year- old in your language. Brewer fumbles with the sticks. Switches to fingers.
BREWER: What's this stuff on the rice?
RAMBO: Fermented fish sauce. Brewer's expression is less than enthusiastic.
RAMBO: How do we get upriver?
CO: I have arranged transportation. We meet soon. But I think you to be Why's that?
RAMBO: Why's that?
CO: I go up to this camp two months ago. Nobody there. Empty for years. Rambo stops, puzzled.
RAMBO: Why would they send us to a deserted Who cares? Let's just do it and get out. Go have a Jacuzzi and get laid in Bangkok. Know what I mean? Rambo moves on, still concerned. something's a bit off.
BREWER: Who cares? Let's just do it and get out. Go have a Jacuzzi and get laid in Bangkok. Know what I mean? Rambo moves on, still concerned. something's a bit off.
RAMBO: We'll check it out.
BREWER: How come we didn't just drop near the camp. save this hassle?
RAMBO: Brewer. Does a jet make noise?
BREWER: ( switching to Viet Where did you find this clown?
CO: ( switching to Viet Where did you find this clown?
RAMBO: ( Viet/subtitled ) I thought he was with you.
CO: ( Viet/subtitled ) Crazy motherfucker.
BREWER: What's she saying?
RAMBO: She likes you. Says you're dinky- What's that?
BREWER: What's that?
RAMBO: Powerful warrior.
BREWER: Yeah. Dinky-dau, that's me. Hey, Co. You wanna meet Jake the one- eyed snake? Rambo motions suddenly for a "freeze". Co walks on ahead, toward the river, as the Americans melt into the shadows.
BREWER: ( under his breath ) These guys look like they'd sell their mothers.
RAMBO: Sometimes they do. They're river pirates. Opium runners.
BREWER: ( hissing ) Pirates? No kidding? Before they step across onto the sampan, Co introduces the "captain" in Vietnamese. Wearing all manner of jewelry, including four wristwatches and a pair of filthy western-style jeans a size too large, CAPTAIN TRONG KINH grins and motions them aboard. The grin reveals bare gum where his upper front teeth would be. Obviously broken out in a fight.
RAMBO: ( Viet/subtitled ) Thank you, Captain, for your hospitality. You speak English very Grinning wider, Captain Kinh motions them inside the CABIN, a rambling and dilapidated structure of corrugated sheet metal and woven bamboo. Kinh barks orders at his men, who cast off from their moorings and jump aboard. The first light of dawn is breaking through the trees.
BREWER: Looks like my room in college.
CO: We sleep here today. Safe here while go up river.
RAMBO: What about patrol boats? Kinh opens a greasy wooden locker, takes out his pride and joy, a Russian-made RPG-7 ROCKET-GRENADE LAUNCHER. His grin glistens evilly in the gloom.
KIRKHILL: ( to phone ) No, sir. we're already committed. They're in the jungle right now. I say we play the hand through. if they find something we just bury the report later. It's still airtight. ( pause ) Yes, sir. He hangs up. Runs a hand through his hair.
KIRKHILL: ( to aide ) Goddamn it! Now the goddamn satellite shows the camp occupied. some trucks or something.
AIDE: ( grimly ) Oh, boy. It's getting dicey. Their manner becomes guarded when a KNOCK at the door interrupts them. The aide unlocks it and admits Trautman.
KIRKHILL: What's up?
TRAUTMAN: Listen, Kirkhill. I'm a bit of a fifth wheel in your setup here. I thought I'd go out with the extraction team tonight. Unless you have an objection.
KIRKHILL: ( not liking it ) It's not necessary.
TRAUTMAN: I know.
KIRKHILL: That's a pretty hairy ride. Full Colonels are supposed to be above that sort of thing. Trautman is calling him on it with a deadpan response.
TRAUTMAN: I know.
KIRKHILL: ( shrugs expansively ) Have fun.
RAMBO'S POV: A view of the shoreline as brown children splash naked in the shallows where a row of hootches marches up the hill on stilts. The SQUEALS and LAUGHTER come clearly across the water. Rambo turns his gaze to the sampan interior. Two of Kinh's men, Co and Brewer all sleep soundly. Rambo watches Co, her face serene in sleep. Childlike. EXT. CA RIVER - LATE AFTERNOON The water is coppery, silhouetting the sampan as it churns Kinh's wife squats on the foredeck, smoking a long-stemmed clay pipe.
RAMBO: Have some armpit sauce. Brewer groans. Opens a C-ration can.
RAMBO: ( to Co ) How did you get started working for the spooks?
CO: Intelligence work.
RAMBO: Intelligence work.
CO: Oh. They talk to me at university before fall of Saigon. Make deal.
BREWER: Everybody's makin' deals.
CO: My brother captain in ARVN. need papers to go United States, or North Vietnamese will execute. They make deal. I stay here and do work. my brother and my son can go United Your son? Co's eyes drop and her whole demeaner deflates slightly.
RAMBO: Your son? Co's eyes drop and her whole demeaner deflates slightly.
CO: Nguyen. He twelve now. Not see him for eight years.
RAMBO: Where's his father? Co shrugs.
CO: Dead. Killed in war. Her voice and expression convey the fatalistic acceptance of one who has seen death in all its forms. Expects it as an element of daily life.
RAMBO: Where's Nguyen now? What city?
CO: ( noting his concern ) Huntington Beach, California.
RAMBO: It's nice there. He's probably digging every minute. Got a surfboard. Breaking girls' hearts.
CO: ( distractedly ) Nguyen is good boy. Co gazes at the sunset beyond the door. A tear runs down her cheek. She catches herself. Wipes it away almost brutally. She abruptly goes on deck.
BREWER: Some hardened guerrilla fighter they gave us. Rambo freezes him out with an evil look. Suddenly there is a commotion on deck. The roar of a powerful ENGINE. Co bursts in a moment later.
CO: River patrol! A FAST LAUNCH roars toward them, silhouetted by the setting sun. UNIFORMED SOLDIERS on deck bring twin 50- caliber machine guns to bear. Rambo and Brewer dive under filthy bunks. Lock and load their weapons. Co pushes junk in over them. Kinh rips open the cabinet. Slams the shaft of a rocket grenade into the launch tube. Co barks an order at him. He hesitates. Lowers the Co removes a small packet of North Vietnamese bills from inside her blouse and hands it to Kinh.
BREWER: grips the MAC-11 tightly, releases, grips, releases. Sweat runs into his eyes.
THE OFFICER: looks severe as he contemptuously thumbs through a sheaf of bills. Kinh, gesticulating pathetically adds some more to the After a tense moment the officer kicks the crate next to Rambo and stalks out, tucking the payola in his tunic. He jumps off the sampan and the patrol boat ROARS on.
RAMBO: How you doing, Brewer?
BREWER: ( shaken ) I need a vacation.
RAMBO: watches from concealment in the foliage. He is invisible with his camo-makeup except for darting eyes.
RAMBO'S POV: looking between the leaves, scanning the prison camp. Two shabby WOODEN GUARD TOWERS stand at diagonally opposite corners of the compound. There is a simple fence of barbed wire on wooden posts enclosing the area and a main gate with a sentry box. THREE LONG WOODEN BARRACKS form a U, filling most of the compound. The place seems deserted.
RAMBO: Check the tower with your scope. Brewer raises the rifle, sighting through the massive starlight scope.
BREWER: Nobody home. Wait a minute! A brief glow of light illuminates the face of a TOWER GUARD hidden in shadows.
BREWER: What's he here for? Nearby, another GUARD saunters out of the forest dressed in NVA regular private's uniform with the sleeves rolled up casually. His AK-47 is slung over his shoulder.
BREWER: slips the telescopic microphone out of his rucksack and clamps it to the side of his scope. He slips on a pair of small earphones and pans the rifle- scope-mike over the nearest barracks unit.
BREWER: ( intently ) Snoring. Five, six guys. Mumbling. Vietnamese. Somebody talking in his sleep. A toilet Guard barracks. Take some shots. Brewer locks a 35mm SLR camera to an adapter on the starlight scope. He starts clicking off some shots. Brewer then scans the long hut across the compound.
RAMBO: Guard barracks. Take some shots. Brewer locks a 35mm SLR camera to an adapter on the starlight scope. He starts clicking off some shots. Brewer then scans the long hut across the compound.
BREWER: Breathing. Moaning. He whips off the earphones in pain as a LOW SCREAM echoes across the camp. It fades into a delirious moaning. Stops.
RAMBO: ( nodding grimly ) Bad dreams. Prisoner's barracks. Shoot some. Brewer clicks away. A TINY ENGINE WHINING draws their attention to the main gate where a YOUNG WOMAN on a LAMBRETTA SCOOTER pulls up to the sentry shack. Brewer zeros on her as she greets the GATE GUARDS.
CO: Cyclo-girl whore from village. Business slow there. Rambo takes the earphones, listening to the girl's distant She's making him a pretty good deal. Apparently the guard agrees because he opens the gate and the girl slips inside.
RAMBO: She's making him a pretty good deal. Apparently the guard agrees because he opens the gate and the girl slips inside.
RAMBO: What's that? By the far tower. Brewer pans to the distant shape.
BREWER: It's a guy in a cage.
RAMBO: Can't tell. Pretty tall. He's real scrunched up in that thing.
BREWER: Can't tell. Pretty tall. He's real scrunched up in that thing.
RAMBO: Let me see.
RAMBO: Alright. Home run.
BREWER: Alright. Home run.
RAMBO: ( angrily ) Torture cage. Can't stand. can't sit. for days. Sometimes weeks.
BREWER: Bastards. Let's get some shots.
ON RAMBO: MOVING SLOWLY IN as he hands the kluge back to Brewer.
RAMBO: That guy's not going to make it.
RAMBO: I'm getting him out.
BREWER: What? Are you crazy? We're supposed to take pictures and split. You're gonna blow the whole program.
RAMBO: You never been in one of those I suppose you have. Rambo holds his wrists up, right under Brewer's nose. showing the chafing scars.
BREWER: I suppose you have. Rambo holds his wrists up, right under Brewer's nose. showing the chafing scars.
BREWER: It's orders! You remember. when they tell you to do something and then you do it. John Wayne is dead, You take pictures and split. I'm going in. Brewer throws down his rifle. He's apoplectic. He can barely form words.
RAMBO: ( rising ) You take pictures and split. I'm going in. Brewer throws down his rifle. He's apoplectic. He can barely form words.
BREWER: Fuck it. Fuck it. Aw. ke-rist. Then a slow grin spreads.
BREWER: How we gonna do it?
RAMBO'S POV: A LOW ANGLE on a UNIFORMED GUARD rummaging in a tiny prehistoric refrigerator, humming to himself. He takes out a can of COKE, recognizable, although the label is in Chinese characters. Rolls it slowly across his sweaty forehead. Pops it. The foam now runs onto the floor, drips into Rambo's eyes. The light snaps off. FOOTSTEPS. Rambo moves on.
PRISONER: ( barely audible ) Who're you?
RAMBO: American. Come to get you out.
PRISONER: Man, you are one scary-looking Can you walk?
RAMBO: Can you walk?
PRISONER: I could a couple of days ago. Gonna be. stiff. Rambo quickly picks the lock on the wrist clamps and then slips his LILE KNIFE from its sheath. Starts cutting the lashings on the bamboo cage.
RAMBO: What's your name?
PRISONER: De Fravio. Dave De Fravio. Lieutenant. Air Force. The door gives way and Rambo steadies De Fravio as he slumps forward.
RAMBO: ( shakes his hand ) Good to meet you, Dave. I'm Rambo. Okay, I'm going to carry you. Don't cough or make any noise.
DE FRAVIO: Sure thing, Rambo. You gettin' the other guys, too?
RAMBO: Not this time. We'll be back. Rambo slings De Fravio's gaunt six-foot frame over his shoulder in a fireman's carry and heads off in a crouching LONG SHOT ON RAMBO crossing a pool of light B.G. as the sentry lounges in his shack.
RAMBO: ( to Brewer ) That's two.
DE FRAVIO: ( weakly ) You guys are real. aren't you?
BREWER: DE FRAVIO Sorry, I mean. I talk to people all the time. I know a lot of them aren't there. But this is real, isn't it? You're taking me home That's right, buddy. De Fravio sits frozen for a moment, then a dry sob wracks his entire body and he puts his arms around Brewer. He cries with utter abandon, quietly, while Brewer looks at him helplessly.
DE FRAVIO: Sorry, I mean. I talk to people all the time. I know a lot of them aren't there. But this is real, isn't it? You're taking me home That's right, buddy. De Fravio sits frozen for a moment, then a dry sob wracks his entire body and he puts his arms around Brewer. He cries with utter abandon, quietly, while Brewer looks at him helplessly.
BREWER: That's right, buddy. De Fravio sits frozen for a moment, then a dry sob wracks his entire body and he puts his arms around Brewer. He cries with utter abandon, quietly, while Brewer looks at him helplessly.
DE FRAVIO: Thank God. thank you. Brewer looks at Rambo with a stricken expression. Then puts his arms clumsily around De Fravio, like somebody holding a baby for the first time. Co touches Rambo's hand. Motions "let's go" with a cock of her head. He nods.
RAMBO: We'd better go for the emergency LZ at point Zulu Sierra. Tell them we've got some heat but don't mention De Fravio. Brewer starts typing.
TECH: You're go for extraction. Mr. Kirkhill says wind 'er up. Here's the hardcopy. Trautman takes the printout.
TRAUTMAN: ( to Doyle ) Alternate LZ Zulu Sierra at 0500. It says "May have heat. Don't be late. All our love."
DOYLE: ( scowling at his Let's get that tent down!
DE FRAVIO: I gotta tell you, it's just luck you guys came when you did. They move us around a lot. We only been at that camp a week. Got a smoke?
BREWER: ( pointedly ) What kind of raggedy-ass rescue you call this?
DE FRAVIO: What kind of raggedy-ass rescue you call this?
RAMBO: Why were you in the box?
DE FRAVIO: Well, I caught this cobra, see.
BREWER: You mean the snake?
DE FRAVIO: Yeah. It's not hard once you get the hang of it. In the wrist. Anyway, I did what I always do when I get one.
BREWER: What's that?
DE FRAVIO: ( straight-faced ) Put it in the guard's barracks. ( pause ) Man they got pissed. They beat the crap out of me, but. it's kind of a tradition. You oughta see 'em run ( chuckling ) You got a bad attitude. De Fravio grins, showing bad teeth as well.
RAMBO: ( chuckling ) You got a bad attitude. De Fravio grins, showing bad teeth as well.
DE FRAVIO: I know it. De Fravio eyes Co as she hands him a plate of rice and Thanks lady. You're pretty cute. doing anything this weekend?
DE FRAVIO: Thanks lady. You're pretty cute. doing anything this weekend?
CO: ( smiling ) Eat slowly. Don't make yourself She exits with the dirty cooking utensils.
BREWER: Twenty-five minutes. We'd better Rambo freezes. looks down. An AK-47 muzzle is pressed into his kidney, held by one of Kinh's men. Two more are covering Brewer, who had just handed his rifle to Co, while donning his pack. Kinh steps up, grinning. Takes Rambo's rifle. A fourth guard eases an arm around his neck, a long knife held under his jawline. It has all happened smoothly and with precision planning.
KINH: Wa-ky number ten. Do-ma.
DE FRAVIO: Yeah, fuck your mama-san, too. In Kinh backhands him to the deck.
E.C.U. CO: Her eyes dart to the side.
BREWER: ( enraged beyond You slope bitch! She whirls on him, drawing the .45. It is enormous in her child's hand. Her expression is terrifying.
SHE FIRES: The renegade behind Brewer ROCKETS BACKWARD, his FACE
DE FRAVIO: ( slowly ) What just happened? Rambo moves over to Co. She seems to sag, depleted. In shock. He takes the .45 from her limp fingers.
BREWER: What just happened? Rambo moves over to Co. She seems to sag, depleted. In shock. He takes the .45 from her limp fingers.
RAMBO: ( Viet/subtitled ) Are you okay?
CO: ( answering in Yes. But I lose many merits in next life. Very bad.
RAMBO: Why'd they want us?
CO: They heard about escaped prisoner on radio. Make deal. More than we pay.
BREWER: They sold us out? Now I'm pissed.
CO: They were fools. To think there would be reward. And to ask my Rambo puts his hands on her shoulders.
RAMBO: Rambo. NVA coming. Pig dog Kinh say meet them here. Whole garrison from Con Cuong is out.
CO: Rambo. NVA coming. Pig dog Kinh say meet them here. Whole garrison from Con Cuong is out.
RAMBO: ( nodding grimly ) Let's go.
LIFER: ( shouting ) Back in Indian country. Just like old times. He racks the bolt on his M-60 and grins. Trautman nods politely and looks at his watch.
BREWER: Let's ditch this Transat. We don't need it. Rambo considers for a moment, then pulls away some underbrush beside a collapsed wall of the ruin.
RAMBO: Bury it here. Work fast. Brewer gets out his entrenching tool. A cold pre-dawn light suffuses the rain forest, giving it an expectant quality. Rambo scans the ridgeline with Brewer's scope.
RAMBO: ( to Co ) You better take off.
BREWER: Ain't you coming with us, sweet My orders stay here. She turns to head off along a diverging trail. Rambo touches her shoulder. She turns.
CO: My orders stay here. She turns to head off along a diverging trail. Rambo touches her shoulder. She turns.
RAMBO: See you in California. Her grin is ironic.
CO: Land of big PX. Maybe I take you for a ride in my Cadillac. Rambo watches her go. A tiny, anonymous peasant girl.
FUHRMAN: ( turning ) Three minutes. The steep slopes fall away and Doyle dives the ship across the rolling foothills. We HEAR a faint call, barely audible over static.
VOICE: ( filtered ) Zen Hammer this is Slam Dunk One, do you copy? Over.
FUHRMAN: Roger, Slam Dunk One. what is your EXT. RAIN FOREST - NEAR PADDIES - DAWN Rambo is crouched with Brewer and De Fravio in a hollow beside an earth dike. They are taking AUTOMATIC WEAPONS FIRE from the trees Spurts of earth leap up around them. Rambo is shouting in a controlled articulate voice into a small PRC-90 FIELD RADIO while Brewer lays down SUPPRESSING FIRE with his M-16 A2.
RAMBO: ( yelling ) Zen Hammer. the heat's on. We're taking fire. Watch for my smoke. Red and green. Northwest corner of a big paddy. ( to Brewer ) Let's move. Rambo and Brewer, carrying De Fravio, charge up and over the dike as the ground is ripped around them. Rambo hurls two SMOKE GRENADES down the dike wall. Columns of red and green smoke begin roiling upward. The dike on which they are pinned down forms part of the enclosure for a complex of terraced RICE PADDIES which occupy the few flat acres of this hilly terrain. The flooded fields reflect the pre-dawn sky like plates of burnished metal. Rambo slams in another clip and fires in short, controlled burst. Brewer hands a captured AK-47 to De Fravio. The ex-POW opens up with a vengeance.
BREWER: Go for it, man. Good therapy.
BREWER: ( on radio ) You guys comin' or what?
FUHRMAN: Roger. we have you on visual. We are coming in. How many are you?
TRAUTMAN: Relay to command. They have one of INT. COMMAND SHACK - THAILAND Kirkhill is pacing behind the main console.
TELECOM TECH: Mr. Kirkhill. I have an AWACS relay. Zen Hammer reports the ground team has an American POW with Kirkhill's reaction is unexpected. He whips around.
KIRKHILL: What did you say?
TELECOM TECH: ( grinning ) They've got one of ours.
KIRKHILL: ( loudly ) This station is now on Condition Bravo. Harrison. Meyers. Goodell. Out. now! The puzzled techs drop their headsets and leave.
KIRKHILL: ( continuing to tech ) Go to your COMINT priority frequency. Give me the mike. Zen Hammer, this is Coach One. This is an Alpha-Kilo-Victor command ( filtered ) Roger, Coach One. go ahead.
KIRKHILL: I want you to abort the operation INT. UH-60 Fuhrman can't believe it.
FUHRMAN: Say again, Coach One? He presses the helmet-headphone tight to his ear, then turns to Trautman, cupping his hand over the mike.
FUHRMAN: ( to Trautman ) He wants us to abort before pick-up.
TRAUTMAN: Confirm it.
FUHRMAN: It is confirmed. Coach One. we have them in Yes, sir. Doyle looks at both of them and shrugs.
DOYLE: Turnin' around.
FUHRMAN: ( to Doyle ) I thought you liked those guys.
DOYLE: I do. But they ain't payin' the rent, Jack.
TRAUTMAN: Stay on your heading, Captain.
DOYLE: Sorry, Sir. Can't do it.
TRAUTMAN: That's an order.
DOYLE: ( implacable ) Sorry, Sir. Trautman has his hand on the butt of his .45 when he hears the clack of a rifle bolt over the rotor noise and turns. Lifer has an M-16 in his lap, not exactly aimed at the colonel, but not aimed away, either.
LIFER: ( smirking ) We ain't Uncle Sam's misguided children no more, Colonel. We're independent contractors.
FUHRMAN: That's right, Sir. We don't like this, but we are working for Mr. You pathetic scum.
TRAUTMAN: You pathetic scum.
DOYLE: ( looking down ) Well, if there weren't POWs before, there are now.
BREWER: Where's he going? Hey, Zen Hammer, where are you Do you read, Zen Hammer? Over. Son of a bitch! They're ditching us! The water is shot into spray around them. A mortar shell lands so close it knocks them down, drenching them with slimy black mud. The radio disappears in the water. Rising, Brewer takes a round in the thigh. Drops. Disappears for a second. comes up gasping. Rambo watches the UH-60 diminishing to a black dot. He is so consumed with rage that his expression goes slack. blank. a murderous disconnection from And yet, in that same moment, a tremendous surge of blind will clears his mind, a determination to survive, to get out at whatever cost. to find whoever did this. It is no longer just a mission. It is a very personal piece of business. He turns and lets his rifle drop into the water. He takes De Fravio's and throws it away.
BREWER: ( through gritted The fuckers left us, man. they left us. Brewer wallows weakly, his blood streaming out into the muddy water. De Fravio looks stunned, lost. eviscerated. He sags to his knees.
DE FRAVIO: Oh. God. It gets quiet. In a ragged line, the NVA soldiers advance to the top of the dike. Twenty. Forty. Finally almost eighty, looking down at the Americans. Rambo slowly raises his hands.
REVERSE: TIGHT ON CO, her expression enigmatic. She turns and darts away, vanishing into the forest.
KIRKHILL: Have a drink. Kirkhill offers a glass to Trautman who ignores it.
TRAUTMAN: Kirkhill sets the glass down and sits at the dinette, motioning Trautman to sit as well.
KIRKHILL: ( shrugs ) You got five hours? I'll tell you about Secretaries of State, and funding committees and diplomatic Trautman slowly sits opposite him, his demeanor becoming more reasonable.
TRAUTMAN: Take your time.
KIRKHILL: Look, Colonel. we're all adults here. This is a war. A very quiet, very intense war. People get Not my people. Kirkhill freezes, glancing down. The muzzle of Trautman's service .45 is jammed into his But you're right. some people do get sacrificed. Now tell me why you pulled the plug.
TRAUTMAN: Not my people. Kirkhill freezes, glancing down. The muzzle of Trautman's service .45 is jammed into his But you're right. some people do get sacrificed. Now tell me why you pulled the plug.
TRAUTMAN: ( continuing ) But you're right. some people do get sacrificed. Now tell me why you pulled the plug.
KIRKHILL: You think I'm some whacko? I like to hurt people? I'm doing a job here. If I knew what's right or wrong I'd be a goddamned priest, right? So I follow directives. I do what I'm told. It's simple. If your boy had done what he was told, there wouldn't be a problem.
TRAUTMAN: Don't dance me, Kirkhill. You'll be walking funny. Trautman leans on the .45 a bit and Kirkhill backs into the seat cushion.
KIRKHILL: Look, it was a screw-up, alright? They weren't supposed to find anything. We thought that camp was This mission was a scam from the word go?
TRAUTMAN: This mission was a scam from the word go?
KIRKHILL: Word came down. they wanted an answer. And they knew the answer they wanted: no POWs. But it had to look good. Best effort. The whole dog-and-pony show. Kirkhill takes a healthy pull from his scotch.
TRAUTMAN: ( realizing ) Rambo and Brewer were selected as It was clean. Very clean. Rambo was a decorated Vietnam vet, a former POW himself. if he came out and said "No POWs" the sub-committee would buy it. He gets himself caught he's a private citizen, a whacko, acting on his own. If he gets proof, it gets lost somewhere between here and D.C. Airtight. But no. Rambo's gotta be a hero. Thinks he's starring in his own war movie or something. He put me in a corner. No choice.
KIRKHILL: It was clean. Very clean. Rambo was a decorated Vietnam vet, a former POW himself. if he came out and said "No POWs" the sub-committee would buy it. He gets himself caught he's a private citizen, a whacko, acting on his own. If he gets proof, it gets lost somewhere between here and D.C. Airtight. But no. Rambo's gotta be a hero. Thinks he's starring in his own war movie or something. He put me in a corner. No choice.
TRAUTMAN: "Terminate with extreme prejudice."
KIRKHILL: That's a crock. We don't say that. Do you have any idea the shitstorm if he'd gotten back with that guy? If it went public? The White House would have to act through channels. We're talking ransom. Four billion bucks in war reparations to Vietnam to get the others back. That's billion, Colonel. With a "B". For a few guys that've had their brains in a blender for ten years? A pain in the ass to everybody? No way. There's no way. The colonel has let the pistol drop, until it is dangling, So there never was a Phase Two rescue team?
TRAUTMAN: So there never was a Phase Two rescue team?
KIRKHILL: Of course not. You can't get approval to rescue a kitten from a tree after Tehran. After a long silence, Trautman nods.
TRAUTMAN: I understand. Kirkhill relaxes. It's going to be okay. The colonel is one of the boys.
KIRKHILL: Here. Drink. Trautman doesn't take the glass.
TRAUTMAN: ( reasonably ) I understand your position. ( pause ) I understand how a maggot like you can just slide out of a jam on a trail of slime. And call it ( viciously ) Kirkhill slams his empty glass down. His tone becomes You're out of your depth, Trautman. Way out. I'm acting correctly here. Not you. Not your gung-ho jungle ( pause ) It's over. Walk away.
KIRKHILL: You're out of your depth, Trautman. Way out. I'm acting correctly here. Not you. Not your gung-ho jungle It's over. Walk away.
TRAUTMAN: It's not over. You made one What that? Trautman clicks the safety and reholsters the .45.
KIRKHILL: What that? Trautman clicks the safety and reholsters the .45.
TRAUTMAN: EXT. PRISON CAMP - VIETNAM - DAY TIGHT ON RAMBO his eyes ablaze, face crusted with dried mud and sweat.
WIDER: revealing him under guard, arms bound painfully tight behind him, in the back of a troop truck. He is seized by TWO VIET SOLDIERS and dragged forward, off the truck. De Fravio hits the ground behind him, and Brewer, moaning on a stretcher, is unloaded. His fatigues are matted to the skin by dried blood from hip to knee. Camp commander CAPTAIN VO QUOC VINH strides across the compound. He is fairly twitching with suppressed rage at the loss of face brought on by his useless guards. He screams orders as the troops dismount, roughly dragging forward the three captives. A VIET SERGEANT turns the captives over to CHIEF GUARD SERGEANT TRAN VAN TAY with a quick salute. The instant Vinh stops shouting Tay begins, like a relay. The prisoners are prodded forward. Rambo walks beside a wide-eyed Brewer.
BREWER: Are they going to torture us?
RAMBO: ( distantly ) What. whattaya do? A GUARD shoves Rambo on ahead as Brewer's carriers stop at the door of an isolation cell.
BREWER: What. whattaya do? A GUARD shoves Rambo on ahead as Brewer's carriers stop at the door of an isolation cell.
RAMBO: ( looking back ) Hope they kill you by mistake. Rambo's guard slams his rifle butt into the American's belly, half-doubling him over.
GUARD: No talk!
BREWER: ( groaning ) This ain't happening.
JENSEN: We were pulling for you, Dave. We hoped you'd make it. De Fravio's eyes focus. The merest spark of the old defiant De Fravio glimmers wanly.
DE FRAVIO: Next time.
WIDER: showing Rambo on his knees, at the center of a bare CONCRETE ROOM. A single window admits a shaft of red dusk-light, like a spotlight. Rambo sways in the spotlight, glistening with sweat, stripped to his G.I. shorts. In the four corners of the small room are guards with rifles. Others crowd in the doorway, grinning and jostling to see. WHAM! The truncheon descends against Rambo's face. He sprawls onto the floor face-down, nose streaming blood. Capt. Vinh enters with a strident shout, stopping Tay from another blow. The two officers exit at a run, leaving Rambo on his face before the guards.
JENSEN: It's those Russian interrogators Everyone looks grim.
PODOVSK: ( in Russian ) Put him in the chair. Palyushin hauls Rambo onto a wooden stool against the wall. Podovsk sits next to him on a small metal desk. It is almost dark and the only light is from a single bare ( Viet to Vinh ) Thank you, Captain Vinh. Leave one guard, please. Vinh exits with Tay and the other three Viets. Podovsk adjusts his wire-rim glasses and considers Rambo. He turns Rambo's bloodied face gently, examining the These people are so. vulgar in their approach. I am Lieutenant Commander Podovsk. I do not know who you are. Will you tell me? Podovsk's English is lightly accented but clear and articulate. He has a nasal condition, however. Rambo doesn't answer.
PODOVSK: ( Viet to Vinh ) Thank you, Captain Vinh. Leave one guard, please. Vinh exits with Tay and the other three Viets. Podovsk adjusts his wire-rim glasses and considers Rambo. He turns Rambo's bloodied face gently, examining the These people are so. vulgar in their approach. I am Lieutenant Commander Podovsk. I do not know who you are. Will you tell me? Podovsk's English is lightly accented but clear and articulate. He has a nasal condition, however. Rambo doesn't answer.
PODOVSK: These people are so. vulgar in their approach. I am Lieutenant Commander Podovsk. I do not know who you are. Will you tell me? Podovsk's English is lightly accented but clear and articulate. He has a nasal condition, however. Rambo doesn't answer.
PODOVSK: ( continuing ) No? Not even your name? ( silence ) This is a poor beginning for an intimate relationship. By tomorrow or the next day you will tell me things you would not tell a lover. Podovsk notices the long criss-crossed scars on Rambo's chest and back.
PODOVSK: ( continuing ) I see you are no stranger to pain. Then of course you must know how senseless it is to resist in the long run. Is it possible you have been among my Vietnamese comrades Podovsk catches something as Rambo breaks his gaze, looking away.
PODOVSK: ( continuing ) Yes. I think that must be it. Where were you held? Hanoi? Son Tay? I apologize. I'm getting ahead. Sometimes I get too eager. My comrade and I, in our capacity as advisors, have been sent from our center at Cam Ranh Bay to discover from you certain things. for example: whether you are working directly for the American government. Who your contacts were. and on and on. Quite a list. Will you tell me these things Rambo gazes at a point in space.
PODOVSK: ( continuing ) Of course you won't. But, as a moral man, I felt compelled to ask. He stands with a shrug of finality and gestures to his massive assistant.
PODOVSK: This is Lieutenant Palyushin. To him you are a piece of meat. LOW ANGLE on Palyushin walking forward.
LOW ANGLE: on Palyushin walking forward.
PODOVSK: I was sent here because of my command of your language. It will be frustrating if we cannot have a nice chat. Very frustrating. Palyushin nods and douses Rambo with a BUCKET OF WATER.
PODOVSK: ( Russian ) Test please. Palyushin, without ceremony, twists the knob. Rambo convulses with an explosive muscle contraction. Slams against the springs. His veins swell as if to EXT. CAMP COURTYARD The lights of the camp dim, flickering, under the current INT. INTERROGATION ROOM Rambo slams convulsively against the electric grid formed by the steel bed. His teeth are clenched as if he has INT. PRISONERS' BARRACKS The lights come up to normal brightness. De Fravio closes his eyes, sharing a ghost of the pain.
PODOVSK: Oh, yes. Here is something you might be interested in. He draws a folded piece of paper from his pocket. Opens A transcript of the conversation between your helicopter pilot and his commander, intercepted and unscrambled by our overworked cryptography staff. Mmm. "Zen Hammer. Slam Dunk." Colorful names. Here we are: "Ah, Coach One. we have them in sight." And the reply: "Abort immediately. Return to base camp." He graciously shows Rambo the printout.
PODOVSK: A transcript of the conversation between your helicopter pilot and his commander, intercepted and unscrambled by our overworked cryptography staff. Mmm. "Zen Hammer. Slam Dunk." Colorful names. Here we are: "Ah, Coach One. we have them in sight." And the reply: "Abort immediately. Return to base camp." He graciously shows Rambo the printout.
PODOVSK: It seems they intentionally abandoned you on direct orders. There are the people you protect with your silence? With your pain? He snaps his fingers and Palyushin cranks the knob. The lights dim. Rambo fights the scream unleashed within him with every fiber of his being. Straining like a demon, every muscle sharply defined and rock hard.
PODOVSK: ( almost kindly ) But you must scream. You must. There is no shame. It bursts out, a roar that frays his vocal cords.
BREWER: INT. INTERROGATION CELL Rambo hangs so limply that he might be dead. Podovsk moves in to check as Rambo's head begins to rise.
PODOVSK: ( to Palyushin ) Nyet! Nyet! The Russian lashes about, convulsing in the current. The lieutenant cuts the power. Rambo snatches Podovsk's MAKAROV PISTOL from his holster. Aims it at his temple before Palyushin can reach for his. The Black Beret eases his hand away from his holster.
CO: ( whispering ) We get out. Split up. They not want me. Rambo steps from the wreckage and advances on the hulking Black Beret, pistol ready. Again he screams, almost a war cry now, and smashes his fist into the Russian's face with the force of his entire body behind it. The big man's head ricochets off the wall into a second piledriver punch. Palyushin goes down. Podovsk groans and stirs until Rambo twists the knob. Despite a bad connection, Podovsk jerks spasmodically under the collapsed metal frame, lying in the puddle of Before Co can use the knife on Palyushin, Capt. Vinh enters, his expression agape. He turns and bolts.
RAMBO: ( panting ) You are amazing. Co is furious at his dawdling.
CO: ( pointing down trail ) Di di mau! Go! Go! She spins and sprints away along the trail, disappearing in a moment. Rambo hesitates an instant, then runs the other way.
PALYUSHIN: ( Viet/subtitled ) Find! Now! He releases the Viet sergeant and briskly walks toward the MIL MI-24. Tay weakly calls orders B.G., rounding up his The RUSSIAN PILOT is waiting dutifully near his machine as Palyushin approaches. The Black Beret makes a circular hand signal. WIND HER UP.
THE GUARDS: wave their AKs, looking for the source of the shot. They hear something crashing through the undergrowth to the right. Movement in dense brush. They open fire. The CRASH OF SUSTAINED FIRE is deafening. They blast blindly away, lighting up the forest. Their attention is so focused, the din so loud, they do not notice a dark figure moving up behind them. Rambo snatches the wayward last guard into a thicket, knife buried to the hilt, hand over his mouth. Tay shouts repeatedly to cease firing and the others finally stop. They move away, advancing on their "target." Tay gingerly parts woven branches, revealing the pig, riddled with hundreds of 7.62mm rounds. He turns to the The other guards look around, puzzled.
TAY: ( Viet/subtitled ) Where's Trang? The other guards look around, puzzled.
ON RAMBO: A shadow in shadows. He slips the clip from the AK-47 he has liberated, but finds it almost empty. Sets it down Tay spreads his men out to sweep the area in an arc. The guards advance, stricken with a growing unease.
GUARD: ( Viet/subtitled ) Vuoc? You alright? The guard moves cautiously to his friend's last position. Ahead face-down in a shallow stream, is the BODY OF VUOC, his blood running away with the water. Approaching the body warily, the guard plays his flashlight around him in a full circle. Nothing.
TAY: Bui? Phong? Than? There is no answer.
TRAUTMAN: Bob, hi. Did you get my telex? Yeah, I know what time it is there. do you know what time it is here? Look, is there anything you can do up the line? You owe me one. I'm calling it in. Yes, this time. I know you're a general and I'm only a colonel. So that's it, huh? Back off. Come home. that's it? Thanks, buddy. He slams the receiver into its cradle, and sits, pondering. He is about to make a somewhat bizarre decision for a full colonel. Trautman opens the door and the young corporal in the office beyond turns in his chair.
TRAUTMAN: Get me a "Loach," I'm going back out to Ban Bung Kla.
CORPORAL: Yes, sir.
DE FRAVIO: ( whispering ) Hey, Brewer. You okay? Brewer crawls stiffly to the opening, squinting at the ( hoarsely ) I could use a beer.
BREWER: ( hoarsely ) I could use a beer.
DE FRAVIO: Your buddy made it out last night. The place went apeshit.
BREWER: Really? How come he didn't take me?
DE FRAVIO: Maybe because you're shot in the Oh, yeah. Listen, how long do they keep you in this disease hole?
BREWER: Oh, yeah. Listen, how long do they keep you in this disease hole?
JENSEN: Who knows? I was in there for a month once. De Fravio did three How do you keep from coming unglued?
BREWER: How do you keep from coming unglued?
JENSEN: Concentrate on a problem. Like, I built my dream house in my head, brick by brick. Board by board. If something really takes a day, I thought about it for a whole day. Like that.
DE FRAVIO: I built a shopping mall.
JENSEN: ( urgently ) Guards. See ya. They slide the block into place and Brewer sits in front of it, COUGHING TO HIDE THE SCRAPE as the door is opened by two guards. Morning light blasts in, blinding him, as one guard hauls him roughly to his feet, despite his wounded leg.
BREWER: ( menacingly ) Watch it. Don't fuck with me, man! ( jerks a thumb at I'm dinky dau! The guards guffaw and drag him off.
PODOVSK: ( wearily ) I think you know where he is going. Is there a rendezvous point? Some guerrilla contract? A transmitter ( earnestly ) No way. If I say anything. that's The interrogator scowls, briefly perplexed.
BREWER: ( earnestly ) No way. If I say anything. that's The interrogator scowls, briefly perplexed.
PODOVSK: ( rising ) I cannot be responsible for the safety of the prisoners if he is not captured. This government now considers the existence of POWs an embarrassment. An unmarked grave in the jungle may be their solution. I am only an advisor.
BREWER: Advise my dick, you Siberian Palyushin explodes with a brutal blow to Brewer's ribs, which doubles him over in agony. He struggles to regain his breath, dragging at the air like a terminal emphysema patient. Brewer slowly raises his head.
BREWER: ( sneering ) Ke-rist. Whattaya trying to do, man, tickle me? Palyushin snarls and smashes the truncheon down even EXT. RAIN FOREST - DAY Rambo runs crouching along a shallow gully, trying to duck around the end of the advancing line of Viet troops. He emerges from dense foliage onto a DIRT-TRACK SIDEROAD only to see a FLANKING SQUAD of about ten men jogging toward him. They shout and hit the deck, opening fire, as he dives on into the underbrush. Rambo runs, zig-zagging radically as small-arms fire laces the woods around him. He crashes through foliage, abandoning stealth. LONG LENS WHIP-PANNING with Rambo as he charges down a long slope, the trees a green blur. He crosses his arms over his face and batters through the brush with blind EXT. HOOTCH Rambo bursts out of the dense tangle, dragging streamers of vines, and finds himself in an EXPLOSION OF SQUAWKING
RAMBO: ( Viet/subtitled ) Keep driving.
VINH: ( Viet/subtitled ) You see? Not a demon. A man. Now, we find where he's crawled to die. Tay indicates that the others should go ahead of him, to have that honor. A line of THIRTY REGULARS moves into the grass. Only the RADIO ANTENNAS of the squad leaders are visible above the waving stalks. The helicopters arc in from the distant ridgeline, converging.
VOOM!: Tay sees a tremendous fireball erupt ahead. Hears SCREAMING. He freezes in his tracks as the nightmare begins again. Shrieking, a man runs toward him, ON FIRE, charging past. Vinh shouts futilely into a radio. Firing blindly, several troopers open up.
VINH: is knocked down as a grenade detonates near him. A trooper helps him up, sees a figure running nearby. fires. Hitting one of their own. More grenades. Random firing. The din is incredible, the pandemonium absolute. A VIET SOLDIER, reels through the grass. Obviously a recent conscript, the soldier is probably only 18 years old, and like all Vietnamese, looks even younger. He is He stumbles over the body of another trooper. As he rises, a shape slashes through the grass right in front of He has never seen an American, but it looks as monstrous as the descriptions. He raises his AK but Rambo is quicker, kicking it out of his hands. The kid flops on his butt and finds himself staring up Rambo's rifle barrel. He closes his eyes and pops into his mouth his BUDDHIST PRAYER MEDALLION, hanging from a chain around his neck. He bites down and waits for When he opens his eyes there is nothing in front of him but grass. Nearby, Vinh leads the retreat as his men fall back, dim shapes rushing blindly through the murk. He staggers, coughing, out of the stand of grass to see Tay, sitting dazed nearby. Tay gives him an evil smirk. Barking orders like a maniac, Vinh calls for MORTARS to be set up. Five mortars are positioned. Elevation set. Mortar bombs poised above the launch tubes. The helicopters clear off. When the last wounded man is dragged clear, Vinh signals for a sighting round. It EXPLODES beyond the wall of flame. The mortars open The field explodes seconds later with the first salvo. Earth and shredded grass are hurled skyward. A second salvo lands. A third. And on and on, pulverizing the entire area.
BREWER: ( panting ) This your first day? Podovsk catches his assistant's hand before he swings.
PODOVSK: You think you can provoke us into beating you unconscious? We are not that. unskilled.
BREWER: I've had it with you, ratface. Don't piss me off! Podovsk takes the "fan belt" from Palyushin and smashes it across Brewer's face. Again. Brewer scream hideously. And again.
BREWER: ( hoarsely ) Aaargh. God damn that. was. ( shouting ) Do it again, you fuck! ( screaming ) Come on. I love it! You hear me. I LOVE IT! Podovsk looms before us, swinging in slow motion, INTO THE LENS. The scene FADES OUT.
TECH: ( handing him a sheaf More AWACS intercepts. The Russian takes time to translate. Kirkhill scans a long PRINTOUT TRANSCRIPT.
KIRKHILL: He's giving them a run for their money. Says here they've got two Hueys from Danang. I didn't know those dinks had Hueys.
TECH: Half their air force is our stuff. Sir, there's something else. a TRANSAT relay. Just came through.
KIRKHILL: Sir, there's something else. a TRANSAT relay. Just came through.
TECH: Sir, there's something else. a TRANSAT relay. Just came through.
KIRKHILL: He snatches the sheet from the tech.
KIRKHILL: stares at the sheet for a long time.
VOICE: You not so hard to catch, dinky dau Rambo looks up along the tumbled stone wall. Sitting near the top in shadow, perched on a tree limb, is Co, beaming like a Cheshire cat.
RAMBO: ( relaxing ) Christ. How'd you get here?
CO: ( climbing down ) Took bus, most of way. I knew you would come here. He helps her down the last few feet, and stands looking at her, marveling.
RAMBO: And how'd you sneak up like that?
CO: Carefully. Don't want to get shot by you. Bad karma. Anyway, you need me.
RAMBO: I do?
CO: You think you are. ( she uses a Viet word ).
RAMBO: ( translating ) In-vul-nerabo. But you get ass kicked without me. Rambo has to laugh.
CO: In-vul-nerabo. But you get ass kicked without me. Rambo has to laugh.
RAMBO: Yeah. We're a pretty good team. Co looks him over carefully. She touches his forehead.
CO: You look like hell. Wounds infected. Come up to the ruins, I have medical kit. Rambo lets her lead him to the path up the hill.
CO: You try get across Laos? Get to Yeah. Got some business there. What are you gonna do?
RAMBO: ( nodding ) Yeah. Got some business there. What are you gonna do?
CO: ( shrugs ) Go United States. See Nguyen. Maybe teach economics. Buy Cadillac. Watch "Dynasty."
RAMBO: How you going to get there? You can't trust the spooks to pull you out. They'll use you up and throw you away.
CO: I know. I go with you.
RAMBO: I couldn't get you in. Co stops her work and replies very quietly.
CO: Yes you can.
RAMBO: Co's gaze holds his and her Cheshire grin flickers.
CO: As wife. Rambo realizes she is serious. The silence drags when he realizes how good that sounds to him at this moment. And how small a price that is to repay her.
RAMBO: ( with finality ) Okay. Done. You got it. She seems a bit shocked, then smiles impishly.
CO: You too easy. Co's hands have been all over him but only now does he become aware of them on his shoulders. She draws her face up to his but Rambo pulls back from the kiss. Co looks puzzled as he slowly disengages from her You don't feel love, Rambo? He leans back against the wall.
CO: You don't feel love, Rambo? He leans back against the wall.
RAMBO: Look, Co.
CO: Why you don't feel love? Not Dead inside, maybe? You make yourself dead already so they can't kill you? In-vulnerabo? Bullshit! She advances on him until her face is close to his, her words finding their mark.
CO: ( continuing ) Bucu bullshit! ( pause ) I have enough death already. Husband. Mother. Father. Brothers. Death everywhere. She points into the undergrowth nearby, to a ghostly blossom growing there among the tangled vines.
CO: You see? A flower like that need good soil to grow. Many time under earth is bones of animal. or person. Killed in jungle. Make soil rich. Grows most beautiful flower. You call orchid. Many deaths in jungle. Vietnamese, V.C., American. Many beautiful flowers. Rambo studies her intently. An emotional moment for him. He takes her flawless face in his hands, draws her closer. Suddenly his head snaps around. A distant THUDDING of COPTER ROTORS becomes audible, growing slowly louder. Rambo leaps up, sprinting to a crumbled parapet. Below, in the valley, the two Hueys are slowly scanning, like angry insects.
PALYUSHIN: ( Viet/subtitled ) Get your men back. I'm beginning an attack run. The Huey THUNDERS toward the ruins, banking in an arc to aim the "minigun."
CO: ( terrified ) What was that?
RAMBO: Minigun. Come on. Let's move. He's coming in on our open side. They sprint across the courtyard as the minigun ROARS again. The CURTAIN OF DEVASTATION sweeps toward them as they run. They make it behind one of the Buddhas, just as the hail of death passes across it. The rounds blast a layer of weathered stone off the serene Behind Rambo the second Huey pops above the trees, firing with a conventional door gun, an M-60. Rambo fires back. Tracers flash around him. He reloads. FIRES. CO CRIES OUT. She is SLAMMED AGAINST THE WALL. The second Huey banks away. Rambo crouches beside Co's crumpled figure.
PALYUSHIN: ( Viet/subtitled ) Return to staging area. We have to EXT. RUINS Rambo cradles Co, whose blouse is drenched with blood. It runs over his hands as he holds her helplessly. She is as white as the jungle orchid. Her eyes focus slowly on Rambo.
CO: ( almost inaudible ) Rambo is rocking her, willing the life to stay in her, his expression anguished.
RAMBO: John. My name is John.
CO: ( very weak ) It doesn't hurt. Why doesn't it INT. HUEY ONE Palyushin coordinates the air operation.
PALYUSHIN: ( Viet/subtitled ) Air Two, circle in a holding ( Russian/subtitled ) Air Three, are you in position?
PILOT: ( Russian/subtitled ) Ready, Air Command.
PILOT: ( Russian/subtitled ) How many are down there?
PODOVSK: ( distantly ) The pilot looks at him strangely. The massive assault helicopter noses down and thunders forward across the EXT. RUINS VERY CLOSE ON RAMBO, rocking gently.
RAMBO: . you're gonna love it there. It'll be great. We can do what we want. you and me. go to the beach. with Nguyen. watch him ridin' his surfboard. Co's eyes are glazed, half-open. She is gone. Rambo sobs. Somehow this one tragedy renders all the others pale.
RAMBO: ( continuing ) Oh, God. He kisses her mouth fiercely. Trying to make her live, to infuse her cooling flesh with some of his vast will.
PILOT: ( Russian/subtitled ) 500 meters. Final approach.
RAMBO: ( awed ) He spins and runs, leaving his rifle.
UNDERWATER SEQUENCE: Rambo dives to the bottom as a sun-bright CANOPY OF FIRE rushes across the surface with a muffled ROAR. The stream is only about two meters deep and is swiftly flowing. The napalm on the surface lights the bottom orange despite the daylight. He seems suspended in a fiery maelstrom. MOVING WITH RAMBO'S figure we dive at giddy speed over the tortuous streambed like some weird amusement park ride. Rambo tumbles over and between smooth boulders. He strains to hold his breath as the fire diminishes Then it is gone. He is clear. Suddenly the rocks END, dropping away.
WIDER: The Huey's M-60 opens up, walking a parade of waterspouts toward him across the water. Rambo FIRES. With a tremendous BACKBLAST the rocket leaps out, a fiery arrow, and strikes the Huey square in the canopy. FLASH! CRACK! The Huey drops into the swamp, its rotors twisting up and flying off. The FUEL TANKS EXPLODE. Rambo pivots, reloading. He takes aim and fires again. The rocket roars into the rain forest, the blast sending approaching soldiers scattering. He reloads. Fires again, flinching away from the rocket exhaust. His expression is grim, his movements He pivots again. Fires. Rounds start hitting around him. He holds position. Beyond the trees, off the river road, the troop trucks are parked. Nearby is a REFUELING TRUCK for the helicopters. Rambo's rocket makes a direct hit. A FIREBALL BLASTS UP AND OUT, seeming to fill the jungle.
OUT!: EXT. MARSH A figure tumbles from the low-flying Huey and splashes into the estuary. The Huey dips and bucks, then rights itself and flies off as the pilot surfaces, gasping.
KIRKHILL: Well, have they got him yet? The tech rereads the COMINT transcript.
TECH: Um. actually, no. It looks like he shot down one of their Christ almighty.
KIRKHILL: Christ almighty.
TECH: . and then he, uh. took the other one.
KIRKHILL: ( exploding ) He. took it. Kirkhill sinks slowly into a chair.
TECH: He. took it. Kirkhill sinks slowly into a chair.
BREWER: Gawd, you look awful.
RAMBO: You comin'?
BREWER: ( trying to rise ) Hold your pantyhose. Here, gimme a Rambo helps Brewer, who is nearly crippled with pain, to his feet, and supports him as they exit.
RAMBO: Can you handle the door gun?
BREWER: Duck soup. Tay and Vinh are still face-down and De Fravio covers them with an AK-47, found in the rubble. Smoke swirls in the idling rotor wash as the barracks begins to burn.
DE FRAVIO: Am I dreaming this? This is not real, right? I oughta grease you pricks, but I've known you too long.
RAMBO: Let's go, De Fravio. Move it! When De Fravio is aboard, crammed in with the others in the main bay, Rambo remounts the M-60 and jumps into the pilot's seat. He brings up the RPMs. The TURBINE WHINE INCREASES. Brewer, crouched behind Rambo, yells forward.
BREWER: We got company. You better pull some pitch, buddy. Behind them, diving out of the sun's glare, is Podovsk's massive assault helicopter. Rambo pops the Huey off the ground and runs hard at the The MIL MI-24 NOSEGUN begins firing and the ground erupts behind the Huey, fountains of earth chasing it as it climbs out. At full climb the laden Huey barely clears the trees and Rambo Immediately banks tight to get out of the nosegun's field of fire. The Soviet chopper tightens its arc, but swings wide, and Rambo spirals back. Brewer swings the door gun and gets off a long burst as the ground reels dizzyingly below and the horizon tilts.
RAMBO: ( shouting ) Brewer! You know what that thing's It's a Soviet MIL MI-24. Probably has 12.7mm nose cannon, heat-seeking rockets and wire guided missiles, Forget it. Rambo noses the Huey down, building speed. Tail high, it shoots across the treetops, its NOSE RADIO ANTENNA ripping through the uppermost foliage.
BREWER: It's a Soviet MIL MI-24. Probably has 12.7mm nose cannon, heat-seeking rockets and wire guided missiles, Forget it. Rambo noses the Huey down, building speed. Tail high, it shoots across the treetops, its NOSE RADIO ANTENNA ripping through the uppermost foliage.
RAMBO: Forget it. Rambo noses the Huey down, building speed. Tail high, it shoots across the treetops, its NOSE RADIO ANTENNA ripping through the uppermost foliage.
ANGLE BACK: past the dodging Huey as the Soviet ship falls in behind, steadily gaining.
PAST BREWER: who flinches as trees rush by seemingly inches away at 120 MPH. The POWs are flung against the bulkheads as the Huey plummets and swerves.
DE FRAVIO: I think I'm gonna be sick.
PILOT: ( Russian/subtitled ) They're approaching the border. Should we notify the Laotian Air ( driven ) No. We'll take them ourselves. Inside the COMPUTERIZED WEAPONS BAY the GUNNER hunches over his TRACKING SCREEN. Rambo's Huey is a shimmering blob weaving behind a targeting reticle. The RANGING RADAR emits a rhythmic PINGING which INCREASES in frequency.
PODOVSK: ( driven ) No. We'll take them ourselves. Inside the COMPUTERIZED WEAPONS BAY the GUNNER hunches over his TRACKING SCREEN. Rambo's Huey is a shimmering blob weaving behind a targeting reticle. The RANGING RADAR emits a rhythmic PINGING which INCREASES in frequency.
BREWER: Hell. This is just like fucking Star Wars, man!
DE FRAVIO: ( puzzled ) Star Wars? Brewer grins, realizing. Slaps him on the shoulder.
BREWER: You're gonna love it.
RAMBO: ( shouting ) How much we got left in that Brewer opens the enormous ammunition canister.
BREWER: Pretty low. Couple of seconds Rambo is plugged into some insane second sight, knowing the curves before they curve. He flies with absolute INT. SOVIET COCKPIT The pilot is sweating, trying to stay on Rambo's Huey.
PILOT: We're in Laos, Sir.
PODOVSK: I know that! Fire all your rockets. Take him INT./ EXT. HUEY As the forest explodes around them. The chopper is buffeted. The forward canopy is shattered by shrapnel. Rambo is hit in the shoulder and chest. His left arm broken above the elbow. One of the prisoners is moaning, holding his bloody Rambo pulls up on the collective, sending blinding pain through his arm. The Huey shoots up out of the jungle, spinning as it pops up. It slips sideways through the air, seemingly going out of Then it arcs back, ROARING RIGHT AT THE CAMERA.
PODOVSK: ( Russian/subtitled ) We've got him. The pilot stares apprehensively as the Huey comes at them. In the weapons bay, the tone of the ranging-radar rises to a shriek. The gunner tenses to fire.
ANGLE: The minigun BLAST FORTH ITS STREAM OF FIRE.
ON RAMBO: watching. A shadow passes over him.
WIDE: as the Soviet ship thunders over them and flies on.
ANGLE: The barrels of the minigun continue to rotate, dry- firing. empty. Clicking like an air-ratchet.
WIDE: as the MIL MI-24 slowly brodies sideways and drops, gracefully, into the rain forest. It shears through trees, breaking up, and EXPLODES
BREWER: ( exultant ) The thrill of victory, the agony of Rambo banks the Huey, ascending toward the mountain pass and, beyond, Thailand.
LIFER: Hey, Colonel. You're not cleared to be on this base anymore.
TRAUTMAN: ( quietly ) I know.
BREWER: . and there's this guy with a black helmet and cape, right, and he's got this sword. except it's not a sword, it's light.
DE FRAVIO: There's the Mekong. They look forward as a broad river appears beyond a ridge- line less than a kilometer ahead. The Thai border. A cheer goes up. A home run.
ON RAMBO: seeing something as they approach the river.
KIRKHILL: ( to mike ) When the unidentified helicopter has crossed the river into Thailand, shoot it down with air-to-air rockets. Then proceed to the crash site and fire your remaining rockets into the wreckage. Is this understood, Zen Hammer?
KIRKHILL: What are you talking about? Why?
TRAUTMAN: Escort them on in.
TRAUTMAN: All base personnel. Prepare medical facilities to receive American POWs. A cheer is raised among the ground contingent as they surge forward.
ON RAMBO: sliding painfully out of the flight seat. Brewer gawks at the pool of blood collected in the hollow of Rambo's seat. Rambo goes to the gun door. Takes De Fravio's AK-47. DOLLYING WITH RAMBO as he limps toward the MOTC with relentless determination. The well-wishing ground personnel fall back, letting him pass. Trautman, B.G., sees him and strides forward to intercept.
LOW ANGLE: as Rambo walks to Kirkhill, looming. Stopping. Kirkhill quails as Rambo grasps him by the collar and flings him backward into a chair. He raises the AK. Muzzle to Kirkhill's forehead.
RAMBO: Mission accomplished. Pulls the trigger. The weapon CLICKS, EMPTY. HOLD ON KIRKHILL, trembling.
BREWER: ( expansively ) Cover of Time Magazine, baby! Rambo walks away. alone.
DE FRAVIO: You did good, buddy. Real good! Rambo stands blinking for a second. He raises his hand in a big "thumbs up" and allows himself to grin.
END CREDITS: Writers : James Cameron
