ANNOUNCER: The time 7:15 A.M., WOR, New York. The temperature, outside, 84 Friends is your life worth one
GUNNISON: ( Looks up ) Indo-China Jeff predicted it would go sky-high.
BRYCE: From the looks of Davidson's cable, it might even go higher than that. And we haven't even got a camera over there.
GUNNISON: ( Stands ) This could go off in a month or an hour.
BRYCE: I'll pull somebody out of Japan.
GUNNISON: ( Heads for his phone ) Bryce, the only man for this job is sitting right here in town. ( Picks up phone ) Get me L. B. Jefferies.
BRYCE: ( Puzzled ) ( To Bryce; still holding phone ) Name me a better photographer.
GUNNISON: ( To Bryce; still holding phone ) Name me a better photographer.
BRYCE: ( He can't ) But his leg!
GUNNISON: Don't worry it comes off today.
GUNNISON: I mean the cast.
JEFF: ( On filter ) Congratulations, Jeff.
GUNNISON: ( On filter ) Congratulations, Jeff.
JEFF: For what?
GUNNISON: For getting rid of that cast.
JEFF: Who said I was getting rid of it?
GUNNISON: ( With logical proof ) This is Wednesday.
JEFF: Gunnison how did you get to be such a big editor with such a small memory?
GUNNISON: Wrong day?
JEFF: Wrong week. Next Wednesday I emerge from this plaster cocoon.
GUNNISON: That's too bad, Jeff. Well, I guess I can't be lucky every day. Forget I Yeah. I sure feel sorry for you, Gunnison. Must be rough on you thinking of me wearing this cast another whole week.
JEFF: Yeah. I sure feel sorry for you, Gunnison. Must be rough on you thinking of me wearing this cast another whole week.
GUNNISON: That one week is going to cost me my best photographer and you a big
JEFF: We hear Gunnison's reply.
GUNNISON: There's no point in even talking about it.
JEFF: ( Insistent ) ( Filter ) Indo-China. Got a code tip from the bureau chief this morning. The place is about to go up in smoke.
GUNNISON: ( Filter ) Indo-China. Got a code tip from the bureau chief this morning. The place is about to go up in smoke.
JEFF: ( Pleased; excited ) Didn't I tell you! Didn't I tell you it was the next place to watch?
GUNNISON: You did.
JEFF: ( On filter ) Okay. When do I leave? Half-hour? An With that cast on you don't.
GUNNISON: With that cast on you don't.
JEFF: ( On filter ) Stop sounding stuffy. I'll take pictures from a jeep. From a water buffalo if necessary.
GUNNISON: You're too valuable to the magazine for us to play around with. I'll send Morgan or Lambert.
JEFF: Swell. I get myself half-killed for you and you reward me by stealing my assignments.
GUNNISON: I didn't ask you to stand in the middle of that automobile race track.
JEFF: ( A little angry ) You asked for something dramatically different! You got it!
GUNNISON: ( Quietly ) So did you. Goodbye, Jeff.
JEFF: ( Won't let him hang up ) You've got to get me out of here! Six weeks sitting in a two-room apartment with nothing to do but look out the window at the neighbors!
JEFF: It's worse than the Chinese water
GUNNISON: Read some good books.
JEFF: I've been taking pictures so long I don't know how to read anymore.
GUNNISON: I'll send you some comic books.
JEFF: ( Low, tense ) Listen if you don't pull me out of this swamp of boredom I'll do something drastic.
GUNNISON: Like what?
JEFF: ( On filter ) I'll I'll get married. Then I'll never be able to go anywhere.
GUNNISON: It's about time you got married before you turn into a lonesome and bitter old man.
JEFF: Can you see me rushing home to a hot apartment every night to listen to the automatic laundry, the electric dishwasher, the garbage disposal and a nagging wife.
GUNNISON: Jeff wives don't nag anymore they discuss.
JEFF: Yeah? Maybe in the high rent districts they discuss but in my neighborhood, they still nag.
GUNNISON: Well you know best. Call you later, Next time, have some good news.
JEFF: Next time, have some good news.
STELLA: ( Loud ) The New York State sentence for a peeping Tom is six months in the
JEFF: Hello Stella.
STELLA: And there aren't any windows in the
STELLA: Years ago, they used to put out your eyes with a hot poker. Is one of those bikini bombshells you always watch worth a hot poker?
STELLA: We've grown to be a race of peeping Toms. What people should do is stand outside their own houses and look in once in a while. What do you think of that for homespun
JEFF: Readers' Digest, April, 1939.
STELLA: Well, I only quote from the best.
JEFF: Now look, Stella
STELLA: See it you can break a hundred. I shoulda been a Gypsy fortune teller, instead of an insurance company nurse. I got a nose for trouble can smell it ten miles away. You heard of the stock market crash in '29?
STELLA: I shoulda been a Gypsy fortune teller, instead of an insurance company nurse. I got a nose for trouble can smell it ten miles away. You heard of the stock market crash in '29?
STELLA: I predicted it.
JEFF: ( Around thermometer )
STELLA: Simple. I was nursing a director of General Motors. Kidney ailment they said. Nerves, I said. Then I asked myself what's General Motors got to be nervous about? Overproduction. Collapse, I answered. When General Motors has to go to the bathroom ten times a day the whole country's ready to let go.
JEFF: Stella in economics, a kidney ailment has no relationship to the stock market. Absolutely none.
STELLA: It crashed, didn't it?
STELLA: I can smell trouble right in this apartment. You broke your leg. You look out the window. You see things you shouldn't. Trouble. I can see you now, in front of the judge, flanked by lawyers in blue double- breasted suits. You're pleading, "Judge, it was only innocent fun. I love my neighbors like a father." The Judge answers, "Congratulations. You just gave birth to three years in Dannemora."
JEFF: Right now I'd even welcome trouble.
STELLA: ( Flatly ) You've got a hormone deficiency.
JEFF: How can you tell that from a Those sultry sun-worshipers you watch haven't raised your temperature one degree in four weeks.
STELLA: Those sultry sun-worshipers you watch haven't raised your temperature one degree in four weeks.
JEFF: I think you're right. There is going to be some trouble around here. I knew it!
STELLA: I knew it!
JEFF: Don't you ever heat that stuff up.
STELLA: Gives your circulation something to What kind of trouble?
JEFF: Lisa Fremont.
STELLA: You must be kidding. A beautiful young woman, and you a reasonably healthy specimen of manhood.
JEFF: She expects me to marry her.
STELLA: That's normal.
JEFF: I don't want to.
STELLA: ( Slaps cold oils on him ) That's abnormal.
JEFF: ( Wincing ) I'm not ready for marriage.
STELLA: Nonsense. A man is always ready for marriage with the right girl. And Lisa Fremont is the right girl for any man with half a brain, who can get one eye open.
JEFF: ( Indifferent ) She's all right.
STELLA: Behind every ridiculous statement is always hidden the true cause. What is it? You have a fight?
JEFF: ( After a pause ) Her father loading up the shotgun?
STELLA: ( After a pause ) Her father loading up the shotgun?
JEFF: It's happened before, you know! Some of the world's happiest marriage have started 'under the gun' you might say.
STELLA: It's happened before, you know! Some of the world's happiest marriage have started 'under the gun' you might say.
JEFF: She's just not the girl for me.
STELLA: She's only perfect.
JEFF: Too perfect. Too beautiful, too talented, too sophisticated, too everything but what I want.
STELLA: ( Cautiously ) Is what you want something you can
JEFF: It's very simple. She belongs in that rarefied atmosphere of Park Avenue, expensive restaurants, and literary cocktail parties.
STELLA: People with sense can belong wherever they're put.
JEFF: Can you see her tramping around the world with a camera bum who never has more than a week's salary in the If only she was ordinary.
STELLA: You're never going to marry?
JEFF: Probably. But when I do, it'll be to someone who thinks of life as more than a new dress, a lobster dinner, and the latest scandal. I need a woman who'll go anywhere, do anything, and love it.
JEFF: The only honest thing to do is call it off. Let her look for somebody I can just hear you now. "Get out of here you perfect, wonderful woman! You're too good for me!"
STELLA: I can just hear you now. "Get out of here you perfect, wonderful woman! You're too good for me!"
JEFF: ( After pause ) That's the hard part.
STELLA: Look, Mr. Jefferies. I'm not educated. I'm not even sophisticated. But I can tell you this when a man and a woman see each other, and like each other they should come together wham like two taxies on Broadway. Not sit around studying each other like specimens in at There's an intelligent way to approach Intelligence! Nothing has caused the human race more trouble. Modern
JEFF: There's an intelligent way to approach Intelligence! Nothing has caused the human race more trouble. Modern
STELLA: ( Scoffing ) Intelligence! Nothing has caused the human race more trouble. Modern
JEFF: We've progressed emotionally in
STELLA: ( Interrupting ) Baloney! Once it was see somebody, get excited, get married Now, it's read books, fence with four syllable words, psychoanalyze each other until you can't tell a petting party from a civil service exam
JEFF: People have different emotional levels Ask for trouble and you get it. Why there's a good boy in my neighborhood who went with a nice girl across the street for three years. Then he refused to marry her. Why? Because she only scored sixty-one on a Look Magazine marriage quiz!
STELLA: ( Interrupting again ) Ask for trouble and you get it. Why there's a good boy in my neighborhood who went with a nice girl across the street for three years. Then he refused to marry her. Why? Because she only scored sixty-one on a Look Magazine marriage quiz!
STELLA: When I married Myles, we were both maladjusted misfits. We still are. And we've loved every minute of it.
JEFF: That's fine, Stella. Now would you make me a sandwich?
STELLA: Okay but I'm going to spread some common sense on the bread. Lisa Fremont's loaded to her fingertips with love for you. I'll give you two words of advice. Marry her.
JEFF: ( Smiles ) She pay you much?
STELLA: ( Quietly ) Window shopper.
LISA: ( Softly ) How's your leg?
JEFF: Mmmm hurts a little.
LISA: And your stomach?
JEFF: Empty as a football.
LISA: And you love life?
JEFF: Not too active.
LISA: Anything else bothering you?
JEFF: She gives a low. Warm laugh, and the CAMERA PULLS BACK to show that Lisa has been bending over Jeff's wheelchair from the side. As she straightens up, it PANS her swiftly over to the corner of the room, keeping her in big closeup. She turns on a low, hanging light. We see her full facial beauty for the first time. It is a warm, intelligent face.
LISA: ( As she moves ) Reading from top to bottom ( Light on )
LISA: The CAMERA PANS HER over to a third lamp which she turns on. She is now full figure, beautifully groomed and flawless. Her dress is high-style fashion and dramatic evening wear.
LISA: INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - SUNSET - SEMI-CLOSEUP Jeff looks across the room at her.
JEFF: The Lisa Fremont who never wears the same dress twice?
LISA: Only because it's expected of her.
LISA: Right off the Paris plane. Think it will sell?
JEFF: Depends on the quote. Let's see there's the plane tickets over, import duties, hidden taxes, profit markups
LISA: A steal at eleven hundred dollars.
JEFF: ( A low whistle ) That dress should be listed on the stock exchange.
LISA: We sell a dozen a day in this price Who buys them? Tax collectors?
JEFF: Who buys them? Tax collectors?
LISA: Even if I had to pay, it would be worth it just for the occasion.
JEFF: ( Off puzzled ) Something big going on somewhere?
LISA: ( Looking up from the table ) Going on right here. It's a big night.
JEFF: ( Off ) It's just a run-of-the-mill Monday. The calendar's loaded with them.
LISA: It's opening night of the last depressing week of L. B. Jefferies in a cast.
JEFF: ( Off ) Hasn't been any big demand for
LISA: ( Smiling ) That's because I bought out the house. This cigarette box has seen better
JEFF: Picked it up in Shanghai which has also seen better days.
LISA: It's cracked and you never use it. And it's too ornate. I'm sending up a plain, flat silver one with just your initials engraved.
JEFF: Now that's no way to spend your hard- earned money!
LISA: I wanted to, Jeff.
LISA: What would you think of starting off with dinner at the "21"?
JEFF: You have, perhaps, an ambulance
LISA: ( Simply ) Better than that. The "21."
LISA: Thank you for waiting Carl.
LISA: Kitchen's on the left. I'll take the
CARL: Good evening, Mr Jefferies.
JEFF: Carl goes into the kitchen.
LISA: ( Up, to Carl ) Just put everything right in the oven Carl. On "low."
CARL: ( Off ) Yes ma'am.
LISA: ( Enthusiastically ) Let's open the wine now. It's a ( Appreciatively ) A big glassful.
JEFF: ( Appreciatively ) A big glassful.
LISA: Big enough?
JEFF: Fine. Corkscrew's on the right.
LISA: I couldn't think of anything more boring and tiresome than what you've been through. And the last week must be the hardest.
JEFF: Yeah I want to get this thing off and get moving.
LISA: ( Struggling with cork ) Well, I'm going to make this a week you'll never forget. Let me, madam.
CARL: Let me, madam.
LISA: This will take care of the taxi as
CARL: Thank you, Miss Fremont.
CARL: Have a pleasant dinner, Mr. Jefferies.
JEFF: Thank you.
LISA: What a day I've had!
JEFF: Not a bit. I was all morning in a sales meeting. Then over to the Waldorf for a quick drink with Madame Dufresne just over from Paris. With some spy reports. Back to the "21" for lunch with the Harper's Bazaar people that's when I ordered dinner. Then two Fall showings twenty blocks apart. Then I had to have a cocktail with Leland and Slim Hayward we're trying to get his next show. Then I had to dash back and change.
LISA: Not a bit. I was all morning in a sales meeting. Then over to the Waldorf for a quick drink with Madame Dufresne just over from Paris. With some spy reports. Back to the "21" for lunch with the Harper's Bazaar people that's when I ordered dinner. Then two Fall showings twenty blocks apart. Then I had to have a cocktail with Leland and Slim Hayward we're trying to get his next show. Then I had to dash back and change.
JEFF: ( Mock seriousness one girl to another ) Tell me what was Slim Hayward ( Seriously ) She looked very cool. She had on a mint green
LISA: ( Seriously ) She looked very cool. She had on a mint green
LISA: And to think, I planted three nice items about you in the columns today.
LISA: You can't buy that kind of publicity.
JEFF: That's good news.
LISA: Someday you might want to open up your own studio here.
JEFF: How could I run it from say
LISA: Jeff isn't it time you came home? You could pick your assignment.
JEFF: I wish there was one I wanted.
LISA: Make the one you want.
JEFF: ( As if he can't believe her ) You mean leave the magazine?
LISA: For what?
JEFF: For what?
LISA: For yourself and me. I could get you a dozen assignments tomorrow. fashion, portraits
LISA: ( Offended ) Don't laugh. I could do it!
JEFF: That's what I'm afraid of. Could you see me driving down to the fashion salon in a jeep wearing combat boots and a three day beard?
LISA: I could see you looking handsome and successful in a dark blue flannel Let's not talk any more nonsense,
JEFF: ( Looking directly at her ) Let's not talk any more nonsense,
LISA: I'd better start setting up for
LISA: That's what is know as "manless Miss Lonely Hearts. At least that's something you'll never have to worry Oh? You can see my apartment all the way up on 63rd street?
JEFF: ( Nods agreement ) Miss Lonely Hearts. At least that's something you'll never have to worry Oh? You can see my apartment all the way up on 63rd street?
LISA: Oh? You can see my apartment all the way up on 63rd street?
JEFF: Not exactly but we have a little apartment here that's probably about as popular as yours. You, of course, remember Miss Torso.
JEFF: Well, she picked the most prosperous looking one.
LISA: She's not in love with him or any of them.
JEFF: How can you tell that from here?
LISA: You said it resembled my apartment, didn't you?
LISA: ( Emerging from kitchen ) Where's that music coming from?
JEFF: Oh. some songwriter. In the studio apartment. Lives alone. Probably had an unhappy marriage.
LISA: ( Putting down the food ) I think it's enchanting.
LISA: Almost as if it were being written especially for us.
JEFF: ( Pleasantly ) No wonder he's having so much trouble with it.
LISA: Well, at least you can't say the dinner isn't right.
JEFF: Lisa, it's perfect As always.
LISA: There can't be that much difference between people and the way they live! We all eat, talk, drink, laugh, sleep, wear clothes
JEFF: Well now, look
LISA: If you're saying all this just because you don't want to tell me the truth, because you're hiding something from me, then maybe I can understand
JEFF: There's nothing I'm hiding. It's just that
LISA: ( Won't let him break in ) It doesn't make sense to me. What's so different about it here from over there, or any place you go, that one person couldn't live in both places just as easily?
JEFF: Some people can. Now if you'll let me explain
LISA: ( Ignores him ) What is it but traveling from one place to another, taking pictures? It's just like being a tourist on an endless vacation.
JEFF: All right. That's your opinion. You're entitled to it, but
LISA: It's ridiculous for you to say that it can only be done by a special, private little group of anointed
JEFF: I made a simple, but true statement and I'll back it up, if you'll just shut up for a minute!
LISA: If your opinion is as rude as your manner, I'm not sure I want to hear Lisa, simmer down will you?
JEFF: ( Soothing her ) Lisa, simmer down will you?
LISA: ( Something starts her up again ) You can't fit in here I can't fit in there. According to you, people should be born, live an die on the ( Loud, sharp ) Lisa! Shut up!
JEFF: ( Loud, sharp ) Lisa! Shut up!
JEFF: Did you ever eat fish heads and rice?
LISA: Of course not.
JEFF: You might have to, if you went with me. Ever try to keep warm in a C-54, at fifteen thousand feet, at twenty below zero?
LISA: Oh, I do that all the time. Whenever I have a few minutes after lunch.
JEFF: Ever get shot at, run over, sandbagged at night because people got unfavorable publicity from your Those high heels would be a lot of use in the jungle and those nylons and six-ounce lingerie
JEFF: Those high heels would be a lot of use in the jungle and those nylons and six-ounce lingerie
LISA: ( Quickly ) Well, they'd be very stylish in Finland just before you froze to death. Begin to get the idea?
JEFF: Well, they'd be very stylish in Finland just before you froze to death. Begin to get the idea?
LISA: If there's one thing I know, it's how to wear the proper clothes.
JEFF: Huh? Try and find a raincoat in Brazil. Even when it isn't raining Lisa, on this job you carry one suitcase. Your home is the available transportation. You sleep rarely, bathe even less, and sometime the food you even look at when they were Jeff, you don't have to be deliberately repulsive just to impress me I'm wrong.
LISA: Jeff, you don't have to be deliberately repulsive just to impress me I'm wrong.
JEFF: If anything, I'm making it sound Let's face it, Lisa. you aren't made for that kind of a life. Few people are.
LISA: You're too stubborn to argue with.
JEFF: I'm not stubborn! I'm truthful!
LISA: I know. A lesser man would have told me it was one long holiday and I would have awakened to a rude
JEFF: Now if you want to get vicious, I'd be very happy to accommodate you!
LISA: ( Wearily ) No. I don't particularly want that. ( She turns, faces him ) So that's it. You won't stay here I can't go with you.
JEFF: It would be the wrong thing.
LISA: You don't think either one of us could ever change?
JEFF: Right now, it doesn't seem so.
LISA: ( Simply ) I'm in love with you. I don't care what you do for a living. Somehow I would just like to be part of it.
LISA: And it's deflating to find out that the only way I can be part of it is to take out a subscription to your magazine. I guess I'm not the girl I thought I was.
JEFF: There's nothing wrong with you, Lisa. You have the town in the palm of your hand.
LISA: ( Looks at Jeff ) Not quite it seems. ( Tosses a stole over her shoulder ) Goodbye, Jeff.
JEFF: You mean "goodnight."
LISA: I mean what I said.
JEFF: INT. JEFF'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - SEMI-LONG SHOT Lisa turns in the half-opened door.
JEFF: Can't we just sort of keep things status quo?
LISA: Without any future?
JEFF: Well when'll I see you again?
LISA: Not for a long time. Not, at least tomorrow night.
GUNNISON: ( Filter ) Yeah. Is that you, Jeff?
JEFF: Yeah. Is that you, Jeff?
GUNNISON: Yeah. Is that you, Jeff?
JEFF: It's me.
GUNNISON: Something wrong?
JEFF: The word is "everything." Now what time does my plane leave Tuesday?
GUNNISON: ( Unhappy ) ( Won't give him time to argue ) I don't care where it goes just as long as I'm on it.
JEFF: ( Won't give him time to argue ) I don't care where it goes just as long as I'm on it.
GUNNISON: ( Wearily, after pause ) Okay. Indo-China. Tuesday. We'll pick you up.
JEFF: That's more like it. Goodnight, old
GUNNISON: Jeff hangs up, looks up to the door through which Lisa left. He's not particularly happy.
INSERT: Jeff's watch reads 1:55.
INSERT: The watch now reads 2:35.
STELLA: You'd think the rain would have cooled things off. All it did was make the heat wet.
JEFF: That's a stiff one.
STELLA: The insurance Company would be a lot happier if you slept in your bed, not the wheelchair.
JEFF: ( Between clenched teeth ) How did you know!
STELLA: Eyes bloodshot. Must have been staring out the window for hours.
JEFF: I was.
STELLA: ( Massaging harder ) What'll you do if one of them catches Depends one which one.
JEFF: Depends one which one.
JEFF: Now Miss Torso, for example
STELLA: Keep your mind off her.
JEFF: She's real eat, drink and be merry And she'll end up fat, alcoholic and Speaking of misery, Miss Lonely Hearts drank herself to sleep again. Alone.
STELLA: And she'll end up fat, alcoholic and Speaking of misery, Miss Lonely Hearts drank herself to sleep again. Alone.
JEFF: Speaking of misery, Miss Lonely Hearts drank herself to sleep again. Alone.
STELLA: Poor girl. Someday she'll find her And some man will lose his.
JEFF: And some man will lose his.
STELLA: Isn't there anyone in the neighborhood who might cast an eye in her Well, the salesman could be available He and his wife splitting up?
JEFF: Well, the salesman could be available He and his wife splitting up?
STELLA: ( Interested in the scandal ) He and his wife splitting up?
JEFF: It's hard to figure. He went out several time last night, in the rain carrying his sample case.
STELLA: ( So? ) Isn't he a salesman?
JEFF: Now what could he sell at three in the morning?
STELLA: ( Shrugs ) Flashlights. Luminous dials for watches. House numbers that light He was taking something out of the apartment. I'm certain.
JEFF: He was taking something out of the apartment. I'm certain.
STELLA: His personal effects. He's probably running away the coward.
JEFF: Sometimes it's worse to stay than it is to run.
STELLA: ( Looks at him ) But it takes a particularly low type of man to do it.
STELLA: ( Putting oil and power away ) What about this morning? Any No. The shades are still drawn in their apartment.
JEFF: No. The shades are still drawn in their apartment.
STELLA: ( stops ) In this heat? ( Turns, looks over his shoulder ) They're up now.
JEFF: Get back! Out of sight! Quick!
STELLA: ( A startled whisper ) What is it? What's the matter?
JEFF: ( Quietly ) The salesman's looking out his window.
STELLA: A Federal offense.
JEFF: ( Sharply ) Get back there! He'll see you!
STELLA: I'm not shy. I've been looked at It's not an ordinary look. It's the kind of look a man gives when he's afraid somebody might be watching
JEFF: ( Still peering toward window ) It's not an ordinary look. It's the kind of look a man gives when he's afraid somebody might be watching
STELLA: Goodbye, Mr. Jefferies. I'll see you
JEFF: ( Grunts )
STELLA: And don't sleep in the chair again.
JEFF: Stella picks up her bag, stares at Jeff's back a moment, then starts for the door.
STELLA: Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Great
JEFF: She turns around. Jeff points to a coat-stand near the door.
JEFF: ( Goes on quickly ) Will you take those binoculars out of the case and bring them to me.
STELLA: Trouble. I cam smell it. I'll be glad when they crack that cast, and I get out of here.
LISA: How far does a girl have to go before you notice her?
JEFF: If she's pretty enough, she doesn't have to go anywhere. She just has to
LISA: Well, "ain't I?" Pay attention to
JEFF: I'm not exactly on the other side of the room.
LISA: Your mind is. And when I want a man, I want all of him.
JEFF: Don't you ever have any problems?
LISA: ( Murmurs, kissing him ) I have one now.
JEFF: So do I.
LISA: ( Kissing ) Tell me about it.
JEFF: ( Slight pause ) Why would a man leave his apartment three times, on a rainy night, with a suitcase? And come back three times?
LISA: He likes the way his wife welcomes him home.
JEFF: Not that salesman's wife. And why didn't he go to work today?
LISA: Homework. It's more interesting.
JEFF: What's interesting about a butcher's knife and a small saw wrapped up in a newspaper?
LISA: Nothing, thank heaven.
JEFF: ( Looking again ) Why hasn't he gone into his wife's bedroom all day?
LISA: I wouldn't dare answer that.
JEFF: ( After pause ) Lisa there's something terribly
LISA: And I'm afraid it's with me.
JEFF: ( Looks at Lisa ) What do you think?
LISA: ( Without returning his look ) Something too frightful to utter.
JEFF: He went out a few minutes ago in his undershirt and he hasn't come back yet.
JEFF: You know that would be terrible job to tackle.
JEFF: How would you begin to cut up a human
LISA: Jeff I'll be honest with you you're beginning to scare me a little.
LISA: ( Quietly insistent ) Jeff did you hear what I said? You're beginning to
JEFF: ( Interrupting ) Be quiet! Shhh! ( Pause ) He's coming back!
LISA: ( sharply ) Jeff if you could only see Now, Lisa
JEFF: Now, Lisa
LISA: ( Abruptly ) Sitting around, looking out a window to kill time, is one thing but doing it the way you are ( She gestures ) with, with binoculars, and with wild opinions about every little movement you see is, is diseased!
JEFF: Do you think I consider this I don't know what you consider it but if you don't stop it, I'm getting out of here.
LISA: I don't know what you consider it but if you don't stop it, I'm getting out of here.
JEFF: You'd better before you catch the What is it you're looking for?
LISA: ( Insistent ) What is it you're looking for?
JEFF: I want to find out what's wrong with the salesman's wife. Does that make me sound like a madman?
LISA: What makes you think something's wrong with her?
LISA: A lot of things. She's an invalid who needs constant care and yet the husband nor anyone else has been in there all day.
LISA: Maybe she died.
JEFF: Where's the doctor the undertakers?
LISA: She could be under sedatives, He's in the room now.
JEFF: Lisa, please!
LISA: There's nothing to see.
JEFF: There is I've seen things through that window! Bickering, family fights, mysterious trips at night, knives, saws, rope and since last evening, not a sight or sound of his wife! Now you tell me where she is and what she's doing!
LISA: Maybe he's leaving his wife. I don't know, and I don't care. Lots of people have saws, knives and ropes around their houses. Lots of men don't speak to their wives all day. Lots of wives nag, and men hate them, and trouble starts but very, very, very few of them end up in murder if that's what you're thinking.
JEFF: It's pretty hard to stay away from that word isn't is?
LISA: You could see all the things he did, couldn't you?
JEFF: What are you getting at?
LISA: You could see that he did because he had the shades in his apartment up, and walked along the corridor, and the streets and the backyard?
JEFF: Jeff, do you think a murderer would let you see all that? That he shouldn't keep his shades down and hide behind them?
LISA: Jeff, do you think a murderer would let you see all that? That he shouldn't keep his shades down and hide behind them?
JEFF: That's where he's being clever. Acting And that's where you're not being clever. He wouldn't parade his crime in front of the open shades.
LISA: And that's where you're not being clever. He wouldn't parade his crime in front of the open shades.
LISA: ( Pointing ) For all you know there's something a lot more sinister going on behind those shades.
JEFF: No comment.
LISA: Don't you see how silly you're being?
JEFF: Okay, Lisa probably you're right. He's probably in the bedroom now, entertaining his wife with the indian rope trick. I'll admit to criminal insanity. Now when do I start the
LISA: Let's start from the beginning again, Jeff. Tell me everything you saw and what you think it means.
JEFF: INT. PHONE BOOTH - NIGHT - CLOSEUP We get an impression of Sixth Avenue behind Lisa at the phone. Lisa also talks in a low, quiet voice.
LISA: The name on the second floor rear mailbox reads Mr. And Mrs. Lars, that's L-A-R-S, Lars Thorwald.
JEFF: ( Filter ) What's the apartment house number?
LISA: 125 West Ninth Street.
JEFF: Thanks, Lisa.
LISA: Okay, chief. What's my next To get on home.
JEFF: To get on home.
LISA: All right but what's he doing
JEFF: Just sitting in the living room. In the dark. And he hasn't gone near the bedroom. Now get some sleep.
JEFF: Look, Doyle it's just one of those things I can't tell you on the phone. You have to be here, and see the whole set-up.
JEFF: It's probably nothing important just a little neighborhood murder, that's all. As a matter of fact, I did say "murder".
JEFF: My only thought was to throw a little business your way. A good detective, I reasoned, would jump at the chance to detect. Well, I usually took my best pictures on my day off. Okay, Doyle soon as you can.
JEFF: Well, I usually took my best pictures on my day off. Okay, Doyle soon as you can.
JEFF: Stella, I I can't tell you what a welcome sight this is. No wonder your husband's still in love with You called the police?
STELLA: ( Pauses in cutting food ) You called the police?
JEFF: ( Pauses in cutting food ) You called the police?
STELLA: You called the police?
JEFF: Oh. Well, yes and no. It wasn't an official call. He's just a friend. An old, ornery friend.
STELLA: ( Half to herself ) Now just where do you suppose he cut her up? ( Answering herself ) Oh of course! In the bathtub. That's the only place he could wash away the blood.
STELLA: ( Answering herself ) Oh of course! In the bathtub. That's the only place he could wash away the blood.
STELLA'S VOICE: He'd better get that trunk out of there before is starts to leak.
GIRL'S VOICE: He turns his head, is thoughtful for a brief moment, then he pulls down the shade.
STELLA'S VOICE: Look! Look Mr. Jefferies!
JEFF: ( Agitated ) I thought Doyle would get here before the trunk went or I'd have called the police. ( To Stella ) Now we're going to lose it. Stella, don't do anything reckless!
JEFF: Stella, don't do anything reckless!
STELLA: I'm just going to get the name of their truck!
JEFF: ( Up ) I'll watch the alleyway in case it goes that way.
JEFF: Long Distance.
DOYLE: You didn't see the killing, or the body? How do you know there was a Because everything that man's done has been suspicious. Trips at night in the rain, saws, knives, trunks with rope, and a wife that isn't there any more.
JEFF: Because everything that man's done has been suspicious. Trips at night in the rain, saws, knives, trunks with rope, and a wife that isn't there any more.
DOYLE: I'll admit it all has a mysterious sound but is could mean a number of different things. Murder is the least likely.
JEFF: Go ahead, Doyle tell me he's an unemployed magician amusing the neighborhood with sleight-of-hand.
DOYLE: It's too stupid and obvious a way to murder in full view of fifty windows and then sit over there smoking a cigar waiting for the police to pick him up.
JEFF: Well, officer do your duty.
DOYLE: You've got a lot to lean about homicide, Jeff. Morons have committed murder so shrewdly that it took a hundred trained police minds to catch them. That salesman wouldn't just knock off his wife after dinner, toss her in a trunk and put her in I'll bet it's been done.
JEFF: I'll bet it's been done.
DOYLE: Almost everything's been done under panic. But this is a thousand to one shot. That man's still sitting around his apartment; he isn't You think I made all this up?
JEFF: ( A pause ) You think I made all this up?
DOYLE: I think you saw something that probably has a very simple For instance?
JEFF: For instance?
DOYLE: ( Shrugs ) His wife took a trip.
JEFF: She was an invalid!
DOYLE: You told me. I've got to run, Jeff.
JEFF: All right you don't believe me. I uh won't report it to the Department. Let me poke into a little on my own. No point in you getting any ridiculous publicity.
DOYLE: I uh won't report it to the Department. Let me poke into a little on my own. No point in you getting any ridiculous publicity.
JEFF: ( Coldly ) We know the wife is gone. I'll see if I can find out where.
DOYLE: We know the wife is gone. I'll see if I can find out where.
JEFF: Do that.
DOYLE: You have any headaches lately?
JEFF: Not 'til you showed up.
DOYLE: Uh-huh. Well, it'll wear off in time along with the hallucinations. See you around.
DOYLE: By the way what happened to your I was jaywalking.
JEFF: I was jaywalking.
JEFF: ( With nonchalance ) The Indianapolis Speedway.
DOYLE: During the race?
JEFF: Yup. It sure stopped traffic.
DOYLE: He has a six months lease, and has used up a little over five and a half months of it. Quiet. Drinks, but not to drunkenness. Pays his bill promptly, with money earned as a consume jewelry salesman wholesale. Keeps to himself, and none of the neighbors got close to him, or his wife.
JEFF: I think they missed their chance with her.
DOYLE: ( Studies drink ) She never left the apartment
JEFF: ( Interrupting ) Then where is she in the ice box?
DOYLE: ( Continues ) until yesterday morning.
JEFF: ( Alert ) What time?
DOYLE: Six ayem.
JEFF: I think that's about the time I fell Too bad. The Thorwalds were just leaving the apartment house at that
DOYLE: Too bad. The Thorwalds were just leaving the apartment house at that
DOYLE: Feel a little foolish?
JEFF: Not yet.
JEFF: How's your wife?
DOYLE: Oh oh, she's fine. Just fine.
JEFF: Who said they left then?
DOYLE: Who left where?
JEFF: The Thorwalds at six in the
DOYLE: The building superintendent, and two tenants. Flat statements no hesitation. And they all jibed to the letter. The Thorwalds were leaving for the railroad station.
JEFF: Now how could anybody guess that? They had, perhaps, signs on their luggage, "Grand Central Or Bust!"?
DOYLE: ( Sighs ) The superintendent met Thorwald coming back. He said Thorwald told him he had just put his wife on the train for the country.
JEFF: A very convenient guy this superintendent. Have you checked his bank deposits lately?
DOYLE: Jeff huh?
JEFF: ( Sharply ) Well what good is his information?!! It's a second-hand version of an unsupported statement by the murderer himself Thorwald! Anybody actually see the wife get on the train?
DOYLE: I hate to remind you but this all started because you said she was murdered. Now did anyone, including you, actually see her murdered?
JEFF: Doyle are you interested in solving a case, or making me look foolish?
DOYLE: If possible both.
JEFF: Well then do a good job of it! Get over there, and search Thorwald's apartment! It must be knee-deep in I can't do that.
DOYLE: I can't do that.
JEFF: I mean when he goes out for a paper, or a drink, or something. What he doesn't know won't hurt him.
DOYLE: I can't do it even if he's gone.
JEFF: ( With sarcasm ) What's the matter? Does he have a courtesy card from the police Now don't get me mad! Even a detective can't walk in anybody's apartment and search it. If I were ever caught in there, I'd lose my badge inside of ten minutes!
DOYLE: Now don't get me mad! Even a detective can't walk in anybody's apartment and search it. If I were ever caught in there, I'd lose my badge inside of ten minutes!
JEFF: Just make sure you're not caught. If you find something, you've got a murderer and nobody will care about a couple of house rules. If you find nothing he's clear.
DOYLE: At the risk of sounding stuffy, Jeff I'll remind you of the Constitution, and the phrase "search warrant" issued by a judge who knows the Bill of Rights verbatim. He must ask for Give him evidence.
JEFF: Give him evidence.
DOYLE: I can hear myself starting out. "Your Honor I have a friend who's an amateur sleuth, an one night, after a heavy supper " He'd throw the New York State Penal Code right in my face. And it's six volumes.
JEFF: By morning there might not be anything left to find in his apartment.
DOYLE: ( Looking out window ) A detective's nightmare.
JEFF: What do you need before you can search bloody footsteps leading up to the One thing I don't need is heckling! You called and asked me for help and now you're acting like a taxpayer!
DOYLE: ( Looking out window ) One thing I don't need is heckling! You called and asked me for help and now you're acting like a taxpayer!
DOYLE: ( Turns and look at Jeff ) How did we ever stand each other in that same plane for three years?
JEFF: You know, every day for three years I asked myself that same question?
DOYLE: Ever get an answer?
JEFF: Yeah frequently it ran something like this: "Your request for transfer turned down "
DOYLE: Sorry I had to turn it down. I'm going over to the railroad station and check Thorwald's story.
JEFF: Forget the story find the trunk. Mrs. Thorwald's in it!
DOYLE: Oh I almost forgot! There was a postcard in Thorwald's Mailed yesterday afternoon, three- thirty P.M. from Merritsville That's eighty miles north of here. The message read "Arrived O.K. Already feeling better. Love, Anna."
DOYLE: ( Looking at Jeff ) There was a postcard in Thorwald's ( Refers to paper ) Mailed yesterday afternoon, three- thirty P.M. from Merritsville ( Looks up, speaks pleasantly ) That's eighty miles north of here. ( Back to paper ) The message read "Arrived O.K. Already feeling better. Love, Anna."
JEFF: ( Slowly ) Is is Anna who I think it is?
DOYLE: ( Nods "yes" ) Mrs. Thorwald.
DOYLE: ( Maliciously ) Anything you need?
JEFF: Yeah. A good detective.
MRS. DOYLE: ( Filter ) Mrs. Doyle?
JEFF: Mrs. Doyle?
MRS. DOYLE: Jeff again. Has Tom come in yet?
JEFF: Jeff again. Has Tom come in yet?
MRS. DOYLE: Not yet, Jeff.
JEFF: You haven't even heard from him?
MRS. DOYLE: Not a word. It is something really important, I'm afraid it is, Tess.
MRS. DOYLE: It is something really important, I'm afraid it is, Tess.
JEFF: I'm afraid it is, Tess.
MRS. DOYLE: I'll have him call the moment I hear from him.
JEFF: Tell him not to waste time calling. To get over here soon as he can. I think Thorwald's pulling out tonight.
MRS. DOYLE: Who's Thorwald?
JEFF: He knows. Don't worry, Tess. It's a man.
MRS. DOYLE: ( She laughs ) Goodnight, you idiot.
JEFF: ( A slight smile ) Goodnight, Mrs Doyle.
JEFF: Long distance again.
JEFF: Quick. Take a look. Thorwald's getting ready to pull out for good!
LISA: It doesn't seem to be in any hurry.
JEFF: ( Stares out the window, exasperated ) He was just laying all his things out on one of the beds! Coats, suits, shirts, sox, even his wife's
JEFF: That alligator bag his wife had on the bedpost
LISA: What about it?
JEFF: He had it hidden in the dresser! Well, at least it was in there. He took it out, went to the phone and called somebody long distance. His wife's jewelry was in the handbag. And something about it worried him. He was asking somebody advice over the phone.
LISA: Someone not his wife?
JEFF: I never saw him ask her for advise But she volunteered plenty.
LISA: I wonder where he's going now?
JEFF: I don't know.
LISA: Suppose he doesn't come back again?
JEFF: He will. All his things are still piled on the bed.
LISA: Well, I guess it's safe to put on some lights now.
JEFF: ( Looking to left ) Not yet!
JEFF: He must have gone somewhere to the All day long I've tried to keep my mind on work.
LISA: All day long I've tried to keep my mind on work.
JEFF: Thinking about Thorwald?
LISA: ( Nods yes ) And you, and you friend Doyle ( Stops, to Jeff ) Did you hear from him again since he left?
JEFF: Not a word. He was going to check on the railroad station, and the trunk. He must be still on it.
JEFF: Something on your mind, Lisa?
LISA: It doesn't make sense to me.
JEFF: What doesn't?
LISA: Women aren't that unpredictable.
JEFF: ( Losing a little patience ) Lisa I can't guess what you're
LISA: A woman has a favorite handbag it always hangs on her bedpost where she can get at it. Then she takes a trip and leaves it behind. Why?
JEFF: Because she didn't know she was going on a trip and where she was going she wouldn't need a handbag.
LISA: But only her husband would know that. And the jewelry! Women don't keep all their jewelry in a purse, all tangled, getting scratched and twisted Do they hide it in their husband's They do not! And they don't leave it behind them. A woman going anywhere but the hospital would always take makeup, perfume and jewelry.
JEFF: Do they hide it in their husband's They do not! And they don't leave it behind them. A woman going anywhere but the hospital would always take makeup, perfume and jewelry.
LISA: They do not! And they don't leave it behind them. A woman going anywhere but the hospital would always take makeup, perfume and jewelry.
JEFF: Inside stuff?
LISA: Basic equipment. You don't leave it behind in your husband's drawer in your favorite handbag.
JEFF: I'm with you, sweetie, but Detective Thomas J. Doyle has a pat answer for That Mrs. Thorwald left at six ayem yesterday with her husband?
LISA: That Mrs. Thorwald left at six ayem yesterday with her husband?
JEFF: That's what the witnesses told him.
LISA: Well, I have a pat rebuttal for Mr. Doyle that couldn't be Mrs. Thorwald or I don't know women.
JEFF: Still those witnesses.
LISA: We'll agree they saw a woman but she wasn't Mrs. Thorwald. That is, yet.
JEFF: Come here.
LISA: I'd like to see your friend's face when we tell him. He doesn't sound like much of a detective.
JEFF: Don't be too hard on him. He's a steady worker. I wish he'd get there, Don't rush me. We have all night.
LISA: ( Nuzzling Jeff ) Don't rush me. We have all night.
JEFF: We have all what?
LISA: Night. I'm going to stay with you.
JEFF: You'll have to clear that through my
LISA: I have the whole weekend off.
JEFF: Well that's fine, but I only have one bed, and
LISA: Say anything else, and I'll stay tomorrow night too.
JEFF: Lisa, I won't be able to give you
JEFF: She laughs, gets up. Goes to the large handbag on the table. Is is a Mark Cross ladies 'attache' case.
LISA: You said I'd have to live out of one I'll bet yours isn't this small?
JEFF: That's a suitcase?
LISA: ( Starting to open it ) A Mark Cross overnight case, anyway. Compact, but ample enough.
LISA: I'll trade you my feminine intuition for a bed for the night.
JEFF: ( Gives in smiling ) I'd be no better than Thorwald, to
LISA: There's that song again.
LISA: Where does a man get the inspiration for a song like that?
JEFF: From his landlord once a month.
LISA: It's utterly beautiful. I wish I could be creative.
JEFF: You are. You have a talent for creating difficult situations.
LISA: ( Happily ) I do?
JEFF: Staying the night here, uninvited.
LISA: Surprise is the most important element of attack. And beside, you're not up on your private eye literature. When they're in trouble, it's always their Girl Friday who gets them out of it.
JEFF: The same girl who keeps him out of the clutches of seductive show girls, and over-passionate daughters of the The same.
LISA: The same.
JEFF: But he never ends up marrying her. Why don't I slip into something You mean like the kitchen? And make us some coffee?
LISA: ( Stands up; deadpan ) ( She does a complete spin, then, ingenuously ) Why don't I slip into something You mean like the kitchen? And make us some coffee?
JEFF: You mean like the kitchen? And make us some coffee?
LISA: Exactly what I had in mind along with some brandy.
GIRL'S VOICE: He chokes on the smoke, sputtering and coughing. When he recovers, he throws the cigarette down to the back-yard with a show of irritation. Then slowly he pulls the shade down. Behind us is SOUND of a door shutting
SEMI CLOSEUP: Doyle reaches for a cigarette on the table, and puts it to his lips. While searching his pockets for a match, he HEARS Lisa humming. His eyes turn upward.
MEDIUM SHOT: Over the cabinet which divides the living room from the kitchen, we can see a glimpse of Lisa's shadow on the ceiling.
SEMI CLOSEUP: Doyle picks up cigarette lighter from table, and lights his cigarette. As he is placing the lighter back on the table, he sees:
CLOSEUP: From his viewpoint, Lisa's bag containing her lingerie and overnight effects.
CLOSEUP: Jeff. His eyes turn from the lingerie up to Doyle.
CLOSEUP: Doyle's look is completely noncommittal. His eyes turn at the sound of the song-writer's party. He moves forward to get a better view, as the CAMERA RETREATS in front of him. He stops to glance out of the window.
DOYLE: What else do you have on this man
JEFF: Enough to scare me that you wouldn't get here in time, and we'd lose him.
DOYLE: ( Soberly ) You think he's getting out of here?
JEFF: Everything he owns is laid out on the bedroom, ready for packing.
LISA: I'm just warming some brandy.
LISA: Mr. Doyle? I presume.
JEFF: Tom, this is Miss Lisa Fremont.
DOYLE: How do you do?
LISA: We think Thorwald's guilty.
JEFF: ( Cautiously ) Careful, Tom.
JEFF: He listens, and then looks up to Doyle.
JEFF: Just a minute, please.
DOYLE: Doyle speaking. Uh-huh. Yeah. Mummmm Mmm. Hmm Okay. Thank you, and goodbye.
LISA: The coffee will be ready soon. Jeff, aren't you going to tell him about the jewelry?
DOYLE: He has his wife's jewelry hidden in among his clothes over there.
JEFF: He has his wife's jewelry hidden in among his clothes over there.
DOYLE: You sure it belongs to his wife?
LISA: It was in her favorite handbag And, Mr. Doyle, that can lead to only one conclusion.
DOYLE: His head snaps back to Jeff, who answers:
JEFF: That wasn't Mrs. Thorwald who left with him yesterday morning?
DOYLE: You figured that out, huh?
LISA: It's just that women don't leave jewelry behind when they go on a
JEFF: Come on, Tom you don't really need any of this information, do As a matter of fact, I don't.
DOYLE: As a matter of fact, I don't.
DOYLE: Lars Thorwald is no more a murderer than I am.
JEFF: You mean you can explain everything that went on over there and is still going on?
DOYLE: He starts to place the room.
DOYLE: And neither can you. That's a secret and private world you're looking into out there. People do a lot at things in private that they couldn't explain in public.
LISA: Like disposing of their wives?
DOYLE: ( Off ) Get that idea out of your mind. It will only lead you in the wrong But Tom the saw, the knives
JEFF: But Tom the saw, the knives
DOYLE: Did you ever own a saw?
JEFF: ( Off ) Well, in the garage, back home, we
DOYLE: ( Interrupts ) And how many people did you cut up with the couple of with it? Or hundred knives you've probably owned in your
JEFF: But I'm not a killer!
DOYLE: ( Off ) Your logic is backward.
LISA: You can't ignore the wife disappearing! And the trunk and the jewelry !
DOYLE: I checked the railroad station. He bought a ticket. He put her on the train ten minutes later. Destination: Merritsville. Witnesses. This deep.
LISA: It might have been a woman but it couldn't have been Mrs. Thorwald. That jewelry
DOYLE: Look, Miss Fremont. That feminine intuition sells magazines but in real life, it's still a fairy tale. I don't know how many wasted years I've spent running down leads based on women's intuitions.
JEFF: I take it you didn't find the trunk And this is just an old speech you once gave at the Policeman's Ball.
DOYLE: I found the trunk a half hour after I left here.
LISA: Of course, it's normal for a man to tie his trunk up with a heavy rope.
DOYLE: ( Off ) When the lock is broken yes.
JEFF: What was in the trunk? A surly note to me?
DOYLE: ( Carefully ) Mrs. Thorwald's clothes. Clean carefully packed not too stylish but presentable.
LISA: ( Off ) Didn't you take it to the crime lab?
DOYLE: I sent it on its merry and legal
JEFF: Why when a woman only goes on a simple trip, does she take everything she owns?
DOYLE: Let the female psychology department handle that one.
LISA: I would say that is looked as if she wasn't coming back.
DOYLE: ( Off ) That's what they call a family ( Persisting ) If his wife wasn't coming back why didn't he tell his landlord? I'll answer it for you because he had something to hide.
JEFF: ( Persisting ) If his wife wasn't coming back why didn't he tell his landlord? I'll answer it for you because he had something to hide.
DOYLE: ( Blandly ) Do uh you tell your landlord
JEFF: I told you to be careful.
DOYLE: If I'd been careful piloting that reconnaissance plane, you wouldn't have taken the kind of pictures that got you a medal, a big job, fame, All the things I hate.
JEFF: ( Expressionless ) All the things I hate.
DOYLE: Now what do you say we sit down to a quiet, friendly drink or two forget all about this, and tell lies about the old days in the war? Hmmm? He looks from one to the other.
LISA: You're through with the case?
DOYLE: There isn't any "case" to be through with, Miss Fremont. Now let's get down to that friendly drink.
DOYLE: Maybe you're right. I guess I'd better get home and get some sleep.
DOYLE: I'm not much of a snifter.
DOYLE: If you need any more help, Jeff consult the yellow pages of your telephone directory.
LISA: I hate funny exit lines.
JEFF: Who was the trunk addressed to?
DOYLE: Mrs. Anna Thorwald.
JEFF: Let's wait and see who picks it up.
DOYLE: Oh that phone call! I gave them your number hope you don't mind.
JEFF: ( Off ) That depends on who "they" were.
DOYLE: ( Pleasantly ) The police Department at Merritsville. They called to report. The trunk was just picked up by Mrs. Anna
DOYLE: Don't stay up too late.
LISA: Jeff turns his eyes in the same direction as hers.
JEFF: As much as I hate to give Thomas J. Doyle too much credit, he might have gotten a hold of something when he said this was pretty private stuff going on out there.
JEFF: Do you suppose it's ethical to watch a man with binoculars, and a long- focus lens until you can see the freckles on the back of his neck, and almost read his mail do you suppose it's ethical even if you prove he didn't commit a crime?
LISA: I'm not much on rear window ethics.
JEFF: Of course, they have the same chance. They can look at me like a bug under glass, if they want to.
LISA: ( Turns to him ) Jeff if anybody walked in here, I don't think they'd believe what they You and me with long faces plunged into despair because we find out that a man didn't kill his wife. We're two of the most frightening ghouls I've ever known.
JEFF: You and me with long faces plunged into despair because we find out that a man didn't kill his wife. We're two of the most frightening ghouls I've ever known.
LISA: You and me with long faces plunged into despair because we find out that a man didn't kill his wife. We're two of the most frightening ghouls I've ever known.
LISA: You'd think we could be a little bit happy that the poor woman is alive and well. Whatever happened to that old saying "Love Thy Neighbor."
LISA: Whatever happened to that old saying "Love Thy Neighbor."
JEFF: I think I'll start reviving it tomorrow, with say Miss Torso for a start?
LISA: ( As she get up ) Not if I have to move into an apartment across the courtyard and do the dance of the seven veils once an hour. ( As she lowers the blinds ) Show's over for tonight.
LISA: Preview of the coming attractions.
LISA: Did Mr. Doyle think I stole this No, Lisa I don't think he did.
JEFF: ( Mock seriousness ) No, Lisa I don't think he did.
LISA: ( Softly ) What do you think?
LISA: I'll rephrase the question.
JEFF: Thank you.
LISA: Do you like it?
JEFF: ( Studying it ) Well, if there was one less thread this way ( motions horizontally ) and two less that way ( Motions vertically ) I might give up bachelorhood.
LISA: I'll be right back.
MEDIUM SHOT: The newlywed's blinds come up, and for the first time we see both of them at the window, the girl looking over the boy's SEMI-LONG SHOT Some members of the song-writer's party move out to the patio- balcony, to get a better look down in the yard.
LONELY HEARTS: ( Her voice clear ) It's dead! It's been strangled and the neck is broken!
SIFFLEUSE: Which one of you did it? Which one of you killed my dog? You don't know the meaning of the word "neighbor". Neighbors like each other speak to each other care if anybody lives or dies. But none of you do! You don't talk, you don't help, you you don't - Even see. But I couldn't imagine any Even of you being so low that you'd kill a little helpless, friendly dog! The only thing in this whole neighborhood who liked anybody!
SIFFLEUSE: Did you kill him because he liked you? Just because he liked you?
MEDIUM SHOT: The newlyweds draw their shades again.
MEDIUM SHOT: The landlord moves away from the window.
JEFF: For a minute, Doyle almost had me convinced I was wrong.
LISA: But you're not?
JEFF: In the whole courtyard, only one person didn't come to the window.
LISA: Why would Thorwald want to kill a Because it knew too much?
JEFF: Do you think this was worth waiting all day to see?
LISA: Is he cleaning house?
JEFF: He's washing down the bathroom walls.
STELLA: Must have splattered a lot.
STELLA: Well, why not? That's what we're all thinking. He killed her in there, and he has to wipe up the stains before he leaves.
LISA: Stella, your choice of words
STELLA: Nobody's invented polite words yet for killing.
JEFF: Lisa Lisa on the shelf over there get me the small yellow box
JEFF: And that little viewer.
JEFF: ( Half to himself as he searches slides ) These aren't more than two weeks old I hope I didn't take all leg art. ( Discovers the right slide ) I think this is the one.
LISA: Jeff what are you looking for?
JEFF: Something that if I'm right might solve a murder.
STELLA: Mrs. Thorwald?
JEFF: Uh-uh. The dog. I think I know now why Thorwald killed it.
JEFF: You take a look and tell me what you
JEFF: ( Over ) Now take it away.
JEFF: It's just a picture of the backyard, that's all.
LISA: It's just a picture of the backyard, that's all.
JEFF: I know. But there's one important change. The flowers in Thorwald's pet flower bed.
STELLA: You mean the one the dog was sniffing And digging in. Look at that flower bed.
JEFF: ( To Stella ) And digging in. ( Points out window ) Look at that flower bed.
JEFF: There's a dip at this end. And since when do flowers grow shorter in two There's something buried there.
STELLA: There's something buried there.
LISA: ( Breathing it ) Mrs. Thorwald!
STELLA: You haven't spent much time in cemeteries, have you? Mr. Thorwald could hardly put his wife into a plot of ground scarcely one foot square.
STELLA: Unless, he puts in standing on end which would be very original and not require the use of either a knife or a saw. My guess is she's scattered all over town. A leg in the East River an arm
LISA: ( Cuts in ) Stella, please.
JEFF: Something's in there. Those flowers have been taken up, and put back It could be the knife, and the Call Lieutenant Doyle!
LISA: ( Has a hard time saying it ) It could be the knife, and the ( Quickly ) Call Lieutenant Doyle!
STELLA: ( Quickly ) Call Lieutenant Doyle!
LISA: No let's wait. Let's wait until it gets dark. I'll go over and dig it up!
JEFF: ( To Stella ) I'm not going to call Doyle until I show him the body of Mrs. Thorwald ( To Lisa ) And you're not going to dig up anything, an get your neck broken
JEFF: What we've got to do is find some way to get in there, and
STELLA: He's starting to pack.
STELLA: What are you going back for?
JEFF: You did it, Thorwald! You did it!
JEFF: Lisa! Look out! He's coming!
STELLA: ( Accusingly ) You shouldn't have let her do that! If he ever
JEFF: ( Interrupting )
STELLA: Thank heaven that's over!
JEFF: I have a feeling we've just begun.
JEFF: No doubt of it. He's leaving. The question is when?
STELLA: Mind if I use the portable keyhole?
JEFF: Not as long as you tell me what you're looking at.
STELLA: I wonder.
JEFF: Miss Lonely Hearts just laid out something that looks like sodium trieckonal capsules.
STELLA: Miss Lonely Hearts just laid out something that looks like sodium trieckonal capsules.
JEFF: You can tell that from here?
STELLA: I handled enough of those red pills to put everybody in New Jersey asleep for the winter.
JEFF: Would four of them ?
STELLA: ( Breaks in ) No but it makes the rest easy to take. And she's reading the Bible.
JEFF: ( After a slight pause ) Then I wouldn't worry too much. But let's keep an eye on her.
STELLA: You know? You might not be too bad a bargain for Lisa after all.
JEFF: You don't say! I might just take that compliment as an insult.
LISA: Wasn't that close?
JEFF: ( Off ) Too close.
LISA: What was his reaction? I mean when he looked at the note?
STELLA: Well, it wasn't the kind of expression that would get him a quick loan at the bank.
LISA: Jeff how did I do?
JEFF: Real professional. Would have made a great layout for the Bazaar. The model pressed back against a brick wall, eyes wild, tense. Low cut bodice, in new suspicious black, with a You'd make a good door prize at a
STELLA: ( Interrupts Jeff ) You'd make a good door prize at a
LISA: Jeff the handbag.
JEFF: Suppose Mrs. Thorwald's wedding ring was among the jewelry he has in the During that phone conversation he held up three rings one with a diamond one with a big stone of some kind and one plain gold band.
LISA: ( Excited ) And the last thing she'd leave behind would be her wedding ring! ( To Stella ) Do you ever leave yours at home? The only way anybody could get that off would be to chop my finger Let's go down and find out what's buried in the garden.
STELLA: The only way anybody could get that off would be to chop my finger Let's go down and find out what's buried in the garden.
LISA: Why not? I always wanted to meet Mrs. Thorwald.
JEFF: What are you two talking about?
STELLA: Got a shovel?
JEFF: There's probably one in the basement.
STELLA: There's probably one in the basement.
JEFF: Now wait a minute
LISA: Jeff, if you're squeamish, just don't Now hold on. I'm not a bit squeamish about what might be under those flowers but I don't care to watch two women end up like that dog You know, Miss Fremont he might just have something there.
JEFF: Now hold on. I'm not a bit squeamish about what might be under those flowers but I don't care to watch two women end up like that dog You know, Miss Fremont he might just have something there.
STELLA: ( To Lisa ) You know, Miss Fremont he might just have something there.
JEFF: There's no point in taking unnecessary Give me the phone book, Lisa.
LISA: What for?
JEFF: Maybe I can get Thorwald out of the
STELLA: We only need a few minutes.
JEFF: I'll try to give you at least fifteen Chelsea 2-7099. We scared him once. Maybe we can scare him again. I'm using that word "we" a little too freely, I guess. I don't take any of the chances.
LISA: ( Finds the number ) Chelsea 2-7099. ( He looks up, reaches for the phone ) We scared him once. Maybe we can scare him again. ( Picks up receiver; pauses ) I'm using that word "we" a little too freely, I guess. I don't take any of the chances.
JEFF: ( Finds the number ) Chelsea 2-7099. ( He looks up, reaches for the phone ) We scared him once. Maybe we can scare him again. ( Picks up receiver; pauses ) I'm using that word "we" a little too freely, I guess. I don't take any of the chances.
LISA: Shall we vote him in, Stella?
STELLA: The two women smile. Jeff picks up the phone and dials Chelsea 2-7099. The women watch him tensely. He holds the receiver away from his ear a little, and the buzzer is heard sounding on filter. Lisa looks toward Thorwald's apartment; then Stella; then Jeff.
JEFF: ( Off, half-aloud ) Go ahead, Thorwald pick it up. You're curious. You wonder if it's your girl friend calling. The one you killed for. Pick it up, Thorwald!
THORWALD: ( Cautiously, on filter ) ( Off ) Did you get my note?
JEFF: ( Off ) Did you get my note?
JEFF: Well did you get it, Thorwald?
THORWALD: Who are you?
JEFF: I'll give you a chance to find out. Meet me in the bar at the Brevoort and do it right away.
THORWALD: Why should I?
JEFF: For a little business meeting to settle the estate of your late wife.
THORWALD: ( After a pause ) I don't know what you mean.
JEFF: ( Firmly ) Now stop wasting time, Thorwald, or I'll hang up and call the police.
THORWALD: ( Breathing heavily ) I only have a hundred dollars or so.
JEFF: That's a start. I'm at the Brevoort now. I'll be looking for you.
LISA: ( Over ) Let's go, Stella.
JEFF: One of you watch this window. If I see him coming back, I'll signal with a flashbulb.
BABY SITTER: This is Doyle's house.
JEFF: This is L. B. Jefferies, a friend of Tom's. Who am I talking with?
BABY SITTER: This is the baby sitter.
JEFF: Oh. When are they expected home?
BABY SITTER: I'm hired 'til one. They went to dinner and maybe night-clubbing.
JEFF: Well, if he calls in, tell him to get in touch with L. B. Jefferies right away. I might have quite a surprise for him.
BABY SITTER: Does he have your number, Mr. He has it. Thank you.
JEFF: He has it. Thank you.
BABY SITTER: Jeff hangs up. Stella is now beginning to dig, carefully lifting the flowers off the center of the bed where they had dipped down. She places the flower plants on the sidewalk. Lisa stands facing Jeff's window and occasionally glances over her shoulder uneasily at Stella's work. At this moment, the sounds of musical instruments begin to be heard from the songwriter's apartment.
JEFF: Lisa no!
JEFF: Come on. Come on! Get out of there!
STELLA: Ring Thorwald's phone the second you see him on the way back!
JEFF: I'm going to ring him now! Give her another minute She's doing this for you.
STELLA: Give her another minute She's doing this for you.
STELLA: Miss Lonely Hearts!
STELLA: ( Off ) Call the police!
STELLA: Maybe that music will delay her taking the pills.
JEFF: Lisa! Lisa! Precinct Six Sergeant Allgood.
POLICE: Precinct Six Sergeant Allgood.
POLICE: Precinct Six Sergeant Allgood.
JEFF: A man is assaulting a woman at one two five west ninth street. Second floor rear. Make it fast.
POLICE: Your name?
JEFF: L. B. Jefferies.
POLICE: Phone number?
JEFF: ( Impatiently ) Chelsea 2-5598.
POLICE: Two minutes.
JEFF: ( With deep sincerity ) Stella what can we do?
STELLA: There they are.
STELLA: What's she trying to do? Why doesn't she turn him in?
JEFF: Smart girl.
STELLA: Smart? She'll be arrested!
JEFF: That'll get her out of there, won't
STELLA: Mrs. Thorwald's ring!
JEFF: Stella! The lights! He'd seen us!
STELLA: When you took your first snapshot did you ever think it would bring you to this?
JEFF: ( Urgently ) Stella how long do you think he'll stay there?
STELLA: ( Squinting out window ) Unless he's dumber than I think, he won't wait 'til his lease is up.
JEFF: My billfold! In the right hand drawer.
STELLA: What do you need money for?
JEFF: To bail Lisa out of jail. You know you could just leave her there until after next Tuesday so you could sneak away safely as
STELLA: You know you could just leave her there until after next Tuesday so you could sneak away safely as
JEFF: ( With obvious disappointment ) One hundred and twenty-seven.
STELLA: How much do you think you'll need?
JEFF: First offense burglary probably two-fifty. The piggy bank.
STELLA: Ten here.
JEFF: Thirty-three here. Totals one-ninety. Not enough.
STELLA: I got twenty or so in my purse. Give me what you've got.
JEFF: What about the rest?
STELLA: When those cops get a look at Miss Fremont they'll even contribute.
JEFF: ( To phone ) Just a minute. ( To Stella ) I'll tell you who it is when you get
JEFF: ( Filter ) This is Doyle, Jeff.
DOYLE: ( Filter ) This is Doyle, Jeff.
JEFF: ( Urgently ) Tom, I've got something real big for ( Wearily ) Look Jeff, don't louse up my night with another man killer stuffing a grisly trunk that turns out to be
DOYLE: ( Wearily ) Look Jeff, don't louse up my night with another man killer stuffing a grisly trunk that turns out to be
JEFF: ( Interrupting harshly ) Listen to me! Lisa's been arrested.
DOYLE: ( Slightest pause ) Your Lisa?
JEFF: My Lisa. She went into Thorwald's apartment, and he came back. The only way I could get her out was to call the police.
DOYLE: ( Angry ) I told you that
JEFF: ( Interrupting ) I know what you told me! She went in to get evidence, and she came out with it.
DOYLE: Like what?
JEFF: Like Mrs. Thorwald's wedding ring. If that woman were still alive, she'd be wearing it.
DOYLE: ( Grudgingly ) A possibility.
JEFF: ( Talking fast ) A fact! Last night he killed a dog for pawing in his garden. Why? Because he had something buried in there. Something a dog could scent.
DOYLE: Like an old hambone?
JEFF: ( Fast ) I don't know what pet name Thorwald had for his wife. And that night he went out half a dozen times with the metal suitcase. He wasn't taking his possessions, because they're up in his apartment now!
DOYLE: You think perhaps it was "old In sections! And one other thing, doubting Tom it just occurred to me that all the calls Thorwald made were long distance! If he called his wife the day she left after she arrived in Merritsville why did she need to send him a postcard saying she'd arrived?
JEFF: In sections! And one other thing, doubting Tom it just occurred to me that all the calls Thorwald made were long distance! If he called his wife the day she left after she arrived in Merritsville why did she need to send him a postcard saying she'd arrived?
DOYLE: ( After pause; a detective ) Where'd they take Lisa?
JEFF: Precinct Six. I sent a friend over with bail money.
DOYLE: Maybe you won't need it. I'll run it down, Jeff.
JEFF: Just don't dally. Thorwald knows he's being watched. He won't hang around long.
DOYLE: If that ring checks out, we'll give him an escort. So long.
MISS TORSO: ( Faintly heard ) Have you heard that song he's been
JEFF: ( Still looks out window ) ( No answer ) Hello, Doyle? Tom? Tom, I think Thorwald's left. I don't see anything ( He looks at receiver, then: )
THORWALD: What do you want from me? Your friend the girl could have turned me in. Why didn't she?
THORWALD: Your friend the girl could have turned me in. Why didn't she?
THORWALD: What is it you want? A lot of money? I don't have any money.
THORWALD: Say something!
THORWALD: ( Sudden loud anger ) Say something! Tell me what you want!
THORWALD: Can you get me that ring back?
JEFF: ( Quietly ) ( Loud ) Tell her to bring it back!
THORWALD: ( Loud ) Tell her to bring it back!
JEFF: I can't. The police have it by now.
THORWALD: Then if the police get me you won't be around to laugh!
THORWALD: I'll give you a good look out the
LISA: Jeff! Jeff!
DOYLE: Creel! Your Thirty-eight!
LISA: Jeff Jeff darling!
LISA: ( To the detectives ) Get an ambulance. ( Down to Jeff ) Don't move. Try to lie still.
JEFF: Lisa I I can't tell you how scared I was that you you might
LISA: ( Affectionately ) Shut up. I'm all right.
JEFF: ( To Doyle ) Think you've got enough for a search warrant now?
DOYLE: Oh sure. Sure. I can make it.
DETECTIVE: Lieutenant Doyle?
DETECTIVE: Thorwald's ready to take us on a tour of the East River.
DOYLE: Did he say what was buried in the flower bed?
DETECTIVE: Yeah. It's over in his apartment. In a hat box. Wanna look?
STELLA: Oh, no thanks I don't want any of part of her What did I say?
THE END: Writers : Cornell Woolrich John Michael Hayes
