SECOND DRAFT: February 19,
FALL: The tarp moves and SHANE FALCO's half-naked torso emerges from under it. Shane is late twenties, golden boy handsome, but quickly going to seed. He looks hung over. Shane glances up at the sky and rain. He pulls on the top part of an old patched wet suit and zips it up. He shivers.
ANOTHER ANGLE: He attacks the underside of the sailboat which is covered with green algae muck that hangs a foot off the bottom of the boat. The spatula scrapes away the green mess revealing the pure white underside of the CLOSE ON SHANE As he scrapes. Muck from the boat floats past him. This doesn't look like fun. As he works, he happens to look down and notices something on the bottom.
SHANE'S POV: Amidst the beer cans and other trash, something golden is sitting on the bottom.
DAY: Bam! A Miami Dolphin linebacker crushes a Washington Redskin running back and lands on his throat, elbow first. It's a beautiful fall day in November and Miami is beating the Skins in front of seventy-six thousand crazed Washington fans. The Redskins are at their home stadium better known as "The Big O."
SUMMERALL: That play, my friends, sums up the Redskins' running game all day long. Now Washington calls their last time
MADDEN: Hey, the Dolphins do this as good as anybody. See, in a four, three, two, two, you got the guards. boom!. Plugging up the middle, then the corners. boom and
SUMMERALL: Third and twenty-two, but forget the first down with eight seconds showing and the Skins down by a touchdown.
MADDEN: Could be the last play.
SUMMERALL: Could be the last play of the season if the players go out.
SUMMERALL: ( V.O. ) Once again, if you haven't heard, it was announced during halftime that the N.F.L. Players Association will hold a press conference immediately following this game that would make it about five o'clock Eastern time and it is expected that
ON REDSKINETTES: Twelve striking-looking women dressed in burgundy and gold are doing some inane chatter to a section of fans that ignore The girls are led by pretty ANNABELLE FARRELL, a bundle of manic energy inside a body from heaven.
ON MARTEL: The Redskin quarterback moves to the huddle.
SUMMERALL: ( V.O. ) Here we go: Third down, eight seconds to play, ball on the Dolphins' thirty-three yard line. Skins down by a touchdown. Green 48! Green 48! Hut! Hut!
MARTEL: Green 48! Green 48! Hut! Hut!
SUMMERALL: Well. Martel goes down ten yards short of a score.
MADDEN: On maybe the last play of the season.
SUMMERALL: I think he might have Yeah, there's a lot of that going around.
MADDEN: Yeah, there's a lot of that going around.
BOB: We're coming to your house tonight, and we're gonna fucking kill you! And if you got a dog, we're gonna kill your fucking dog ON ANNABELLE Behind her, the rest of the cheerleaders are already walking away. Annabelle looks at Quarterback Martel with pure disgust as he walks off the field.
ON ANNABELLE: Behind her, the rest of the cheerleaders are already walking away. Annabelle looks at Quarterback Martel with pure disgust as he walks off the field.
AUGUSTINE: Did they win or lose?! O'Neil continues to wail.
AUGUSTINE: That has the distinct tonal quality of a He puts one needle down and jabs O'Neil with the other one. He murmurs to the old man as he injects him.
AUGUSTINE: Nice medicine for a loss. Keeps us calm. Makes us not so sad. Keeps us on an even keel. Gives us some perspective, doesn't it? And we'll save the winning medicine for next Sunday, won't we? He finishes.
O'NEIL: If you keep talking to me like I'm a five- year-old, I'm going to hurt you.
AUGUSTINE: Sounds exciting. He reaches for the phone and hits the speed We'll want to talk to coach now, won't we? He hands the phone to O'Neil.
AUGUSTINE: We'll want to talk to coach now, won't we? He hands the phone to O'Neil.
O'NEIL: ( on the phone ) What the fuck was ( on the phone ) I think he slipped.
TILDON: ( on the phone ) I think he slipped.
O'NEIL: Bullshit he slipped! He could have scored!
TILDON: Mister O'Neil, let's face facts: The players are going out. It's gonna happen. And nobody wants to get hurt on the last play before a strike that could go on for the rest of the season.
O'NEIL: You god damn wimp! You're fired! Get out! Get out! Get out! O'Neil throws the phone down. Augustine picks it up and then cranks up the oxygen a O'Neil takes big gulps of the rich air.
AUGUSTINE: Better? It always makes you feel better when you fire someone, we know it does, don't we? Yes.
O'NEIL: Get me Jimmy McGinty. Get him here. Tonight. O'Neil sucks hard on the oxygen.
WILSON: Hey, man, I do what my
REPORTER: But you're already one of the highest paid players in the game. The fans just don't see the point of a player like you striking.
WILSON: Let me tell you something: I'm a big man, you see? Wilson holds his arms out. Yes, he's There are some days when I am so beat up, that I cannot dress my own big ass. I asked management for a valet or some shit to help me dress and they said no way. So, fuck 'em!
WILSON: There are some days when I am so beat up, that I cannot dress my own big ass. I asked management for a valet or some shit to help me dress and they said no way. So, fuck 'em!
ON TV: A handsome ex-player named Jerome Lindell steps up to a podium at a press conference. He's wearing a two thousand dollar suit. On the TV he is identified with a super: "JEROME LINDELL President National Football League Players' Association."
WILSON: Shit, I'm goin' to CUT TO: INT. O'NEIL'S BEDROOM - CLOSE ON O'NEIL - NIGHT As he sleeps peacefully. The only sound is the HISS of his OXYGEN. Then we hear ICE CUBES SLOSHING in a glass. O'Neil opens his eyes and sees: JIMMY McGINTY, a handsome devil in his late sixties, wearing golf clothes and sipping the last dregs of a Scotch rocks. You look like shit.
O'NEIL: I'm dying, Jimmy. You been dying for twenty years. O'Neil motions to the glass. Jimmy pours three fingers from a Glenlivet bottle and hands it to him. That poof of a nurse of yours is gonna kick my ass if he catches you O'Neil removes his oxygen to sip his whiskey. He smiles as it goes down.
O'NEIL: Gimme a butt. I quit.
O'NEIL: McGinty nods.
O'NEIL: You pussy. I want you to come back as head coach. I fired that asshole Tilden today. I'm retired. And besides, you don't have a team. They all flew home in their jets to their castles.
O'NEIL: We're gonna finish the season anyway. All of us owners decided. We're gonna use replacement players. You're a bunch of greedy bastards, aren't Us, greedy?! What
O'NEIL: Us, greedy?! What
O'NEIL: No team owner in their right mind is gonna give back those T.V. All we promised Fox was twenty-two guys with a pulse every Sunday. But think about it, Jimmy. We got a great opportunity here! We got a chance to put a team on the field that plays the game just for the love of it. Like we used to play it. We also used to play without face guards.
O'NEIL: Jimmy, I'm really dying. The doctor says I'll be gone by Superbowl Sunday. Help me bring a winner back to D.C. You did it for me once before. You can do it again. Listen: I golf once a week with the President of the United States. I walk my grandkids to school every day. I
O'NEIL: Come on. Wouldn't it be fun? A bunch of poor nobodies who play to win instead of a bunch of bitchy millionaires? You can put it together, Jimmy. Player's love you. They always have. McGinty pours more Scotch and looks into the Tell me you're gonna do Shut up, I'm thinking. Okay. Here's the deal: you let me recruit who I want, with no I'm talking anybody I want. No exceptions. And no interference with my coaching, either, like you used Sure, Jimmy, sure. And one more thing: no more Notre Dame stories. You start telling me Notre Dame stories and I pull your
O'NEIL: Tell me you're gonna do Shut up, I'm thinking. Okay. Here's the deal: you let me recruit who I want, with no I'm talking anybody I want. No exceptions. And no interference with my coaching, either, like you used Sure, Jimmy, sure. And one more thing: no more Notre Dame stories. You start telling me Notre Dame stories and I pull your
O'NEIL: I'm talking anybody I want. No exceptions. And no interference with my coaching, either, like you used Sure, Jimmy, sure. And one more thing: no more Notre Dame stories. You start telling me Notre Dame stories and I pull your
O'NEIL: Sure, Jimmy, sure. And one more thing: no more Notre Dame stories. You start telling me Notre Dame stories and I pull your
O'NEIL: CUT TO: INT. REDSKINS' HEAD COACH'S OFFICE - DAY McGinty is sitting behind the empty desk as his two main coaches give him a presentation. They are offensive coordinator LEO PILACHOWSKI and defensive coordinator
PILACHOWSKI: . Six phone lines with internet access on two: One for defense and one for offense.
BANES: We thought we would skip special teams for the moment.
PILACHOWSKI: Except for a kicker. We definitely need a kicker. A place kicker over a punter.
BANES: The thinking being that if we lose the toss, we have to be able to at least kick off. Both coaches laugh nervously. McGinty doesn't say anything.
PILACHOWSKI: Okay. Here's the list of every player cut this past season. What we would like to do
EVANS: You won't need a How you doin', Reese?
EVANS: Bored and ready to retire. I'm just looking for one more hit. One more really good hit. What about the strike?
EVANS: Hell, I'm rich. I got no complaint with Mister O'Neil. I just want a chance to play one last time.
BIKER: Did you hear something? The other biker shakes his head, no. The one who asked the question walks over to the door and listens for a beat. Nothing. He turns to go back and suddenly the door disintegrates in front of a charging man wearing a "police" windbreaker. This is DANIEL BATEMAN, a big, young, psychotic cop, who immediately runs over the poor Biker who was listening at the door, kicking the guy in the head as he goes by. Bateman dives on two more Bikers, and
COP #1: Jesus, Bateman! Why don't you ever wait for BEEP! BEEP! BEEP! Someone's BEEPER is going off. The three cops look at theirs. The cowering Biker looks at his.
BIKER #2: Not me. Bateman pulls his beeper, studies it and looks puzzled.
BATEMAN: What area code is 703?
COP #1: Washington, D.C.
KID: Nice hands.
CLIFFORD: ( not amused ) What else?
KID: A pack of Marlboro Reds, a pint of Martel Cognac and a box of Trojans, extra long. Clifford grabs the Kid's two one-dollar bills, and makes change for the bread.
CLIFFORD: Get out of here. I'm telling your mother you were talking like that. The Kid leaves. The Manager yells from the back of the store as he holds up a portable phone.
MANAGER: Hey, Clifford, somebody on the phone wants you to play football next Tell 'em I gotta work Saturday. And I'm watching the Redskins on Sunday. Ain't nothing stopping me from watching the Redskins on Sunday. No way that's gonna be
CLIFFORD: Tell 'em I gotta work Saturday. And I'm watching the Redskins on Sunday. Ain't nothing stopping me from watching the Redskins on Sunday. No way that's gonna be
MANAGER: ( into phone ) He's gotta work. ( pause ) They said they'll pay Pay me? How much?
CLIFFORD: Pay me? How much?
MANAGER: ( on phone ) How much? ( pause ) Ten thousand five hundred dollars!
CLIFFORD: ( stunned ) Ray, who the fuck is on the phone?!
MANAGER: ( pause ) It's the Washington
JAMAL: ( to someone ) Get out of the way! ( to someone else ) Don't look at him! He don't like being looked at, god damn it! No eye contact!
SHANE: And you look like that coach from the Seventies. From the Redskins. McGinty. Except you look a shitload older. The price of happiness. Something to take the chill off? He offers Shane an elegant flask. Shane takes it and drinks. I'm running the Redskins again. And I want you to quarterback No, man, I've been out way too long. What, three years since San Diego dumped you? That's nothing. You're in shape, flopping around in the water like that.
SHANE: No, man, I've been out way too long. What, three years since San Diego dumped you? That's nothing. You're in shape, flopping around in the water like that.
SHANE: You know what my nickname was in San Diego, don't you? Sure. Footsteps.
SHANE: As in, I hear 'em and I dump the ball. Well, you didn't have much of a line to protect you.
SHANE: I got two concussions to prove it. That's why girls don't play the game. McGinty drinks from his flask. I scouted you when you were playing at Ohio State. I told San Diego they were probably making a mistake when they signed you.
SHANE: ( truly shocked ) No kidding? Oh, you had a lot of tools: a quick release. Fast. A scrambler by nature. Good downfield vision. But you got hurt a lot. And worst of all, you never could win the big game. What did you lose the Sugar Bowl by, your senior year? What, forty points?
SHANE: Forty-five. And now you want to recruit me? A scrambling quarterback is gonna do real well in this new environment. And to tell you the truth, I think I can help you with your biggest Okay. What's my
SHANE: Okay. What's my
SHANE: I'm retired from Yeah, and it looks like things have been going really well for you Shane doesn't meet McGinty's eyes.
SHANE: I like being here. It's quiet. I like being alone. Yeah. No screaming crowds, that's for You know what separates the winners from the losers? Gettin' back on the horse. The one that kicked you in the teeth. You're still young. You still got bags of talent. If you do well, who knows what will happen when the strike ends? Shane keeps staring out at the water. You want me to tell you you're not going to get hurt? You know you will. No doubt about that. But, hell. McGinty points to the boats in the harbor.
PASSERBY #1: Deuce and an eightball on Go Down, Rita in the Lou writes quickly on a small pad. After a beat, another passerby leans in and whispers something to Lou. Lou writes quickly again. >From across the street an old woman sticks her head out of a four-story walk-up. This is LOU'S MOTHER who speaks with a heavy Italian accent.
MOTHER: Louis, you got a phone Who is it?
LOU: ( from across the Who is it?
MOTHER: It's the Washington What?! Ma, what are you, out a your tree?
LOU: What?! Ma, what are you, out a your tree?
MOTHER: ( yelling louder ) I'm telling you they said it's the
ON LOU: He sees what happens and quickly ducks into his apartment house.
ROLAND: Cut right on me, now. Right on me. He pitches the ball out to one kid, who runs right at him, steps on Roland's foot with his cleats and then cuts around him. Roland screams and falls to the ground.
ROLAND: Not right on me, goddamn it! He writhes there a beat until he hears:
ROLAND: ( to the sky ) Thank you, Lord!
REVERSE ANGLE: We see the ball sail cleanly through a rubber ring attached to the crossbar on the ON SHANE FALCO He's in shorts and a sweatshirt taking snaps from center Reese Evans.
EVANS: Nice. Try a roll to the right. Evans bends over another ball. Shane sets up in the shotgun.
O'NEIL: Christ, Jimmy, I ask you to build me a team based on balls and the first player I see is Footsteps Falco?! He's got as much natural talent as any quarterback in the And he's got the happiest feet I've ever All he needs is a shot of self-confidence. He's our quarterback. That's the way it is.
O'NEIL: And he's got the happiest feet I've ever All he needs is a shot of self-confidence. He's our quarterback. That's the way it is.
O'NEIL: What about a safety? We got two a days starting tomorrow and a game in five days! And we still don't have a
AUGUSTINE: Here we go. Nice fat little hits. I called a friend of mine who just happens to be the Governor of Terrific, the Governor is going to play Don't worry about it.
O'NEIL: I called a friend of mine who just happens to be the Governor of Terrific, the Governor is going to play Don't worry about it.
O'NEIL: Don't worry about it.
ON SHANE: He drills a perfect spiral through the EXT. BIG O - MORNING A ramp at the rear of the stadium gives vehicle access to the interior. The bottom of this ramp is now a maelstrom of activity. The regular Washington Redskins are in a picket line walking in circles. The players are dressed in everything from fur coats to expensive leather jackets and leather pants. Half of them are on cell phones. We can see some of their cars parked haphazardly nearby: BMWs, Porsches,
REPORTER: As president of the Players' Association, what does your presence mean here, Mister Very simply, support for these fine players and union men. Washington D.C. is the home of freedom and the collective bargaining agreement. I am here to remind all Americans that the owners are no better than the robber barons of the Nineteenth Century. They have blatantly gone out and hired scabs, which is against all principles of our Constitution and the Declaration of Independence and probably even the The picketers start shouting and pointing.
LINDELL: Very simply, support for these fine players and union men. Washington D.C. is the home of freedom and the collective bargaining agreement. I am here to remind all Americans that the owners are no better than the robber barons of the Nineteenth Century. They have blatantly gone out and hired scabs, which is against all principles of our Constitution and the Declaration of Independence and probably even the The picketers start shouting and pointing.
LINDELL: And here come the Scabskins now! A bus slowly makes its way towards the ramp and the picketers.
PLAYERS: Scabskins! Scabskins!
CLIFFORD: Oh God, there's Eddie Martel! And Wilson Jones! I love Wilson Jones! Yo, Wilson! Yo, player!
ON WILSON: His big face looms right outside the bus window. He looks pissed off and scary.
LOU: Hey, Lou Pacifico.
SHANE: Shane Falco.
LOU: I know. I lost a ton a money on that Sugar Bowl disaster of yours. Wow. Did you get your butt kicked or what?
ON JAMAL: splats against it. He turns to his brother Jamal reaches into his jacket and starts to pull out a nine-millimeter pistol. Andre stops him.
JAMAL: You know I don't take that shit. Jamal reaches into his jacket and starts to pull out a nine-millimeter pistol. Andre stops him.
ANDRE: Be cool.
PLAYERS: Scabskins! Scabskins! When Reese Evans ( former Redskin center ) gets off the bus, the players go wild. Reese coolly gives them the international suck my dick sign. Clifford gets off behind him. He waves and smiles at the striking players. They throw rotten fruit at Clifford in CUT TO: INT. EQUIPMENT ROOM - DAY Behind him, we can see helmets, pads, etc. McGinty walks up dragging Shane who is fully dressed in a uniform, including helmet. McGinty points to the intricate face guard on Shane's helmet. It's an exaggerated version of a lineman's cage with so much metal criss-crossing that you can hardly see Shane's face. McGinty holds up three fingers.
SID: He told me he was a I can see. How many fingers?
SHANE: I can see. How many fingers?
SHANE: Two. No, wait. Three.
ON SHANE: He's now wearing a helmet with a twobar quarterback face guard. He takes a snap and pitches out to running back Roland Lamont. Roland, now wearing a big knee brace, looks sharp as he cuts to the outside.
ON PILACHOWSKI: The offensive coordinator is standing with McGinty who is concentrating on the scrimmage. Suddenly, Pilachowski spots someone. His mouth drops open.
PILACHOWSKI: Oh my God. That's Lee walks up. McGinty bows and says something in Japanese. Lee bows and answers back in Japanese. Then they shake hands. How you doin', Mickey?
LEE: Not bad, Coach. You look great. Why don't you work out at left tackle?
LEE: You got it. Lee puts on his helmet, pulls his ponytail out the back and rumbles away. Pilachowski is looking at McGinty like he's You're not serious. I met Mickey in Hawaii. When he was even bigger. He's a Sumo wrestler. That means he's an expert at pushing people around.
PILACHOWSKI: You're not serious. I met Mickey in Hawaii. When he was even bigger. He's a Sumo wrestler. That means he's an expert at pushing people around.
BANES: ( to McGinty ) I got a defensive end who's deaf!!
PILACHOWSKI: ( watching Lee I'll trade you for a tackle who's gonna play in a diaper.
BANES: How can I coach a deaf You don't have to. He looks across the field at a big, good- looking kid named BRIAN MURRAY who is in the middle of a pass rushing drill. Murray looks really fast, especially for his Brian Murray would have gone in the first round five years back if he hadn't been born deaf. I first saw him play right here in D.C. for Galludet College. He's a hell of an athlete. You won't have to tell him anything.
BANES: I can't believe it! I got to be able to communicate with him. Then learn to sign. Hey, look at it this way: He'll never get
ON SHANE: He's just done a fivestop drop on a pass play. He's looking down field when he sees something scary.
SHANE: Oh shit! No!
BATEMAN: Hi, I'm Danny.
SHANE: ( groaning ) Nice pop, Danny.
BATEMAN: Thank's, Coach!
SHANE: What was that? Danny Bateman. Ex-cop, ex-Marine, ex-rugby. He's absolutely harmless, if you just play dead. San Diego used you all wrong. You're not a
SHANE: I'm very interested in CUT TO: is lined up at middle linebacker. When the play starts, he runs headlong into four blockers and takes them all down with him.
PRACTICE MONTAGE: A ) BATEMAN
ANNABELLE: Annabelle Farrell, head Excuse me?
SHANE: Excuse me?
ANNABELLE: I'm in charge. Of the Redskinettes. The Oh yeah, hi.
SHANE: Oh yeah, hi.
ANNABELLE: I've been watching you. You look good. You look strong. Good quick release. Smart. You read defenses quickly. You're gonna do great.
SHANE: Hey. thanks.
ANNABELLE: I saw your second concussion. The one
SHANE: I guess so.
ANNABELLE: If there's anything you need, let me know. And I mean anything, okay? You understand? Shane is really not sure.
SHANE: Sure. I understand.
ANNABELLE: They put you up at the Good. Remember: anything. You got it? Shane nods. She walks away. We watch her world-class ass move across the ON McGINTY AND CLIFFORD FRANKLIN McGinty is holding a ball and talking to his wide receiver. . because it's a damn waste of all that speed, Clifford. I told you that when you were in high school. You've got to catch the ball, son. This is the main idea of the passing game.
SHANE: Good. Remember: anything. You got it? Shane nods. She walks away. We watch her world-class ass move across the ON McGINTY AND CLIFFORD FRANKLIN McGinty is holding a ball and talking to his wide receiver. . because it's a damn waste of all that speed, Clifford. I told you that when you were in high school. You've got to catch the ball, son. This is the main idea of the passing game.
ANNABELLE: Good. Remember: anything. You got it? Shane nods. She walks away. We watch her world-class ass move across the ON McGINTY AND CLIFFORD FRANKLIN McGinty is holding a ball and talking to his wide receiver. . because it's a damn waste of all that speed, Clifford. I told you that when you were in high school. You've got to catch the ball, son. This is the main idea of the passing game.
CLIFFORD: I know, Coach, I know. Okay. I assume that you have touched a woman in a romantic way, have you not?
CLIFFORD: Oh yeah, Coach, sure. In a, you know, romantic way. Good. From here on out, you touch this football, all the He shoves the football in Clifford's hands. . just like you touch your girl friends. I better not see you without this ball. You McGinty starts to walk away.
CLIFFORD: Coach, wait! Can I still like touch my girl friends if I don't, you know, let go of the ball? McGinty thinks about that. Yes, Clifford, if you can manage that, CUT TO: INT. LOCKER ROOM - DAY Andre and Jamal are just about dressed. Andre helps Jamal on with his jacket. Jamal
ON SHANE: He's stripped down sitting on a bench. Reporters are trying to interview him. Microphones are in his face and video cameras jockey for position.
SHANE: . just glad to be back playing. That's all I've really got to But where have you been? What have you been doing to make a Well. I've been involved lately in the. aquatic
REPORTER: But where have you been? What have you been doing to make a Well. I've been involved lately in the. aquatic
SHANE: Well. I've been involved lately in the. aquatic
MICKEY: You only played one Actually, less than two minutes. I was a rookie third round pick in '93. We were playing Atlanta in the home opener. Near the end of the first quarter, they sent me in, I took a screen pass over the middle and got hit by both Simultaneously. One a
ROLAND: Actually, less than two minutes. I was a rookie third round pick in '93. We were playing Atlanta in the home opener. Near the end of the first quarter, they sent me in, I took a screen pass over the middle and got hit by both Simultaneously. One a
MICKEY: Can you play on it now? Roland takes out a wrench and starts unscrewing a bolt on his brace.
ROLAND: I've been teaching high school football for five years. It's not a bad life. I'm good at it. There are some days when I actually love it. But for one more shot at this? Shit. I'd give it all up. This time, they're gonna have to take me out in a box.
CLIFFORD: I got Wilson Boone's locker, man. Do you believe that shit? He drops his ball and quickly picks it up again. He looks around to make sure Coach didn't see him.
MARTEL: Hey, you can't park Look, I don't want any You don't want any trouble?! You're taking my job away, but you don't want any He doesn't want any trouble, but he puts this piece of shit in a no parking zone. Shane looks but it's obvious he's parked Okay. I'll move it.
SHANE: Look, I don't want any You don't want any trouble?! You're taking my job away, but you don't want any He doesn't want any trouble, but he puts this piece of shit in a no parking zone. Shane looks but it's obvious he's parked Okay. I'll move it.
MARTEL: You don't want any trouble?! You're taking my job away, but you don't want any He doesn't want any trouble, but he puts this piece of shit in a no parking zone. Shane looks but it's obvious he's parked Okay. I'll move it.
SHANE: Okay. I'll move it.
MARTEL: No, we'll do that for you. Go ahead, Wilson. Move it for him. Wilson motions to another big guy. The two of them proceed to roll the Honda over on its roof. It lands with a crunch.
WILSON: Who the fuck are you?
ANDRE: We're the people who take care of the quarterback. We're the All the regulars laugh at this.
JAMAL: Put the car back. Kiss my ass.
WILSON: Kiss my ass.
SHANE: ( to Jamal ) It's okay.
JAMAL: No, it's not. Jamal points to a gorgeous midnight blue That's your ride, ain't Before Wilson can even answer, Jamal pulls his NINE MILLIMETER. BOOM! BOOM! No more Porsche windshield. All the regular Redskins dive for cover.
JAMAL: ( to Wilson ) That's your ride, ain't
WILSON: My windshield! You crazy motherfucker!
JAMAL: Move his car back.
WILSON: My car! Jamal raises his GUN again. POW! No Porsche driver's side window.
WILSON: No! Stop!
WILSON: Come on, help me, god damn it! The guys quickly pick up the Honda and put it right side up.
WILSON: ( to Jamal ) You are gonna pay for No I'm not. And quit messing with my man here. That includes his ride.
JAMAL: No I'm not. And quit messing with my man here. That includes his ride. Jamal spins the nine and holsters it. Andre and Jamal get on either side of Shane. They look at each other and then quickly switch sides.
ANDRE: Let's go to practice, Let's do that. Shane smiles at his guards, smiles at the still-shocked Redskins, and they move out.
SHANE: Let's do that. Shane smiles at his guards, smiles at the still-shocked Redskins, and they move out.
WALTER: Praise the Lord, Shane.
SHANE: Yeah. Sure.
WALTER: Walt Cochran. Offensive tackle. Shane nods. Walter pees for a beat.
WALTER: Shane, will you witness with me?
SHANE: Will I what?
WALTER: Will you witness with me? For this upcoming By now Shane is pissing too.
SHANE: By now Shane is pissing too.
WALTER: Praise the Lord for giving us a way to eliminate, Shane. Why not talk to Him in the midst of performing his Walter takes his hand off his whizzing member and holds it out to Shane. Shane looks at Walter's hand for a long time,
REVERSE ANGLE: They continue pissing as they hold hands.
WALTER: Heavenly Father, thank you for allowing us to pee the poisons from our systems. Please help us in today's practice to be strong
BANES: Where did you play, Judge? Wait. Do I call you judge?
JUDGE: Your Honor, or Judge is fine. I played at Harvard. But I played in the days when you went both ways. Offense and defense. When players were really tough. And where did you play college ball. I'm sorry, what was your name again? Wilkinson is smiling but he looks dangerous.
WILKINSON: Smith. Ray Smith. I played at a junior college nobody ever heard of. What position did you play on defense, Judge?
JUDGE: Middle linebacker.
WILKINSON: Yeah, big fellow like you, that's what I would have guessed.
JUDGE: It was a different game in those days. Raw. Powerful. No tricks, like today.
WILKINSON: You know, maybe you can show me some of your technique, Your Honor. Maybe you can show me some of that toughness.
JUDGE: I'd be glad to!
ANNABELLE: ( O.S. ) You would think he's done enough. Shane turns and sees her. She's as fetching as ever.
ANNABELLE: McGinty, I mean.
SHANE: I was kind of thinking the same thing.
ANNABELLE: My theory is he came out of retirement to see if he could win with losers. Oh, shit. I'm sorry. I didn't mean.
SHANE: ( interrupting ) Hey, it's okay. I've been called worse.
ANNABELLE: Like after that Sugar Bowl game? I guess you could survive anything after that. Shane has to actually smile at this.
SHANE: Sometimes I feel like everybody in the world saw that game. Like I could go to India and some little guy would run up to me and say, 'Boy, did you suck in
SHANE: So, how come you're such a fan?
ANNABELLE: My dad. He's a huge Redskin fan. For years. He's in his twenty-ninth year at the Senate Office Building. As a guard, not a senator. The only thing that keeps him going he says, is me and the Redskins. That's where I get it. My fan-ness. Are you scared? Shane is totally taken off guard by this Scared? Well. yes. It's okay. Anybody would be. But you're good. And you'll do Well, thank you. Look, I gotta study the play book tonight. So. I'll see you.
SHANE: Scared? Well. yes. It's okay. Anybody would be. But you're good. And you'll do Well, thank you. Look, I gotta study the play book tonight. So. I'll see you.
ANNABELLE: It's okay. Anybody would be. But you're good. And you'll do Well, thank you. Look, I gotta study the play book tonight. So. I'll see you.
SHANE: Well, thank you. Look, I gotta study the play book tonight. So. I'll see you.
ANNABELLE: Break a leg tomorrow.
SHANE: It's from the theater. For opening night. You say the worst thing that can happen. And
ANNABELLE: It's from the theater. For opening night. You say the worst thing that can happen. And
JUDGE: Alright, this is how we used to stop a running I can't wait. Someone says hut! And Wilkinson slams into the Republican 16th Circuit Court Judge and knocks him head over heels. The Judge lands on his back, wham! He's out Wilkinson slaps hands with Andre and Jamal.
WILKINSON: I can't wait. Someone says hut! And Wilkinson slams into the Republican 16th Circuit Court Judge and knocks him head over heels. The Judge lands on his back, wham! He's out Wilkinson slaps hands with Andre and Jamal.
WILKINSON: Oooh. got me a judge! Man, that felt good!
LINDELL: ( to kid ) Don't be asking for no autographs from the real players and then go in and watch the
LINDELL: ( to the player ) That is not the message we want to send our
EVANS: You okay? Shane nods and gives a nauseous-looking Remember to nod your head on the snap.
EVANS: Remember to nod your head on the snap.
SHANE: ( out of it ) Nod my head?
EVANS: For when Murray's in. The deaf kid. Hello? He needs to look at you on the snap. Shane nods that he understands but he goes
PILACHOWSKI: What are you, crazy? Nobody eats right before a game.
LEE: I always ate before a big match. I need the Like a hole in the head he needs the bulk. Coach McGinty comes strolling through the locker room, the picture of calm. He walks by defensive end/tight end Brian Murray and signs to him to have a good game. Murray signs back, "Thanks, Coach." Cochran spots McGinty and puts down his Coach McGinty, I'd like to lead the team in the pregame prayer. No. No praying. That's the problem with professional sports today: too much god damn praying. Five hundred dollar fine to the first man I hear McGinty turns and bums an egg from Mickey and walks to the middle of the locker room. He eats the egg as he turns slowly and takes in his players. A lot of people are waiting for you to fall on your asses today. And guess what? You're going to. But I don't give a shit if you look funny out there. Or if you miss a block, or drop a pass, or trip over your own dick. This is professional. And the difference between professional and amateur, between playing for the Washington Redskins and Michigan State is simply. money. You are being paid to win. Not just to play. Not just to learn how to be good sports. Not for the alumni. You are being paid to win. I don't care how the fuck you do it. But I'm demanding it. Because those guys whose place you're taking have forgotten that simple fact. So, go win it. He walks away. The players get up and start
COCHRAN: Coach McGinty, I'd like to lead the team in the pregame prayer. No. No praying. That's the problem with professional sports today: too much god damn praying. Five hundred dollar fine to the first man I hear McGinty turns and bums an egg from Mickey and walks to the middle of the locker room. He eats the egg as he turns slowly and takes in his players. A lot of people are waiting for you to fall on your asses today. And guess what? You're going to. But I don't give a shit if you look funny out there. Or if you miss a block, or drop a pass, or trip over your own dick. This is professional. And the difference between professional and amateur, between playing for the Washington Redskins and Michigan State is simply. money. You are being paid to win. Not just to play. Not just to learn how to be good sports. Not for the alumni. You are being paid to win. I don't care how the fuck you do it. But I'm demanding it. Because those guys whose place you're taking have forgotten that simple fact. So, go win it. He walks away. The players get up and start
MADDEN: . Pretty bold move by New England Patriot owner Victor Kiam, who went out and bought an entire semi-pro team once the strike Redskin management, on the other hand, is going with a bunch of unknowns. Their public relations people don't even have bios yet on most of their players, although we'll see one or two familiar faces out there today.
SUMMERALL: Like Shane Falco, the enormously talented college quarterback from Ohio State, who never fulfilled his potential in the pro's. Wow, remember that
MADDEN: Oh, yeah, they were absolutely decimated!
SUMMERALL: Dusted. And if I'm not mistaken, Falco set a record in that game for Bowl interceptions. Anyway, for some of these players this is another shot; a last shot, probably, for a guy like Falco.
ANNOUNCER: ( V.O. ) Ladies and gentlemen, your Washington
IN STANDS: A sparse crowd is in attendance, mostly diehard fans like Todd, Rod and Bob, who are decked out in burgundy and gold. They look drunk already as they cheer like mad.
ANNOUNCER: ( V.O. ) Here's the starting defense today.
ANNOUNCER: ( V.O. ) At middle linebacker, number 56, Daniel
ON BATEMAN: He trips big-time into the side of the helmet. He bounces ( it's inflated, remember? ) to the other side, bounces again and is shot out of the front of it like a cannon ball.
ON CHEERLEADERS: Bateman bounces out of the helmet and takes out the first six cheerleaders. Girls fly left and right. One girl is knocked out of her shoes.
SUMMERALL: Oh, my.
IN STANDS: Even the hardcore Todd, Rob and Bob can hardly look at the carnage.
OUTSIDE STANDS: A contingent of strike players like Eddie
ON FIELD: Cheerleaders are down and screaming in pain. Annabelle is running from girl to girl, doing ON BATEMAN He's sheepishly standing to one side as trainers come out to assist.
ON BATEMAN: He's sheepishly standing to one side as trainers come out to assist.
JAMAL: ( V.O. ) And now. uh, the rest of the Washington
ANNOUNCER: ( V.O. ) And now. uh, the rest of the Washington
IN HUDDLE: Andre and Mickey Lee are arguing.
ANDRE: That's where I stand.
LEE: No it's not.
ANDRE: Come on, man, that's my spot in the huddle.
ON SHANE: As he walks, we hear McGinty's voice in Shane's helmet. Yes, they do it by one-way helmet radio so the filtered voice you hear is McGinty, speaking into his headset mike. Shane walks into the huddle and chaos.
ANDRE: . Fat fucking nip! You don't know shit!
LEE: What did you call me?!
ANDRE: You heard me, you tub a rice shit!
SHANE: Hold on, what's the problem here?
LEE: I'm gonna kick your black ass.
ANDRE: You ain't kickin' jack
JAMAL: ( to Lee ) Don't be messing with my brother.
SHANE: Hey, hold on.
ON REF: He's watching the play clock and when it gets to zero he pulls his penalty flag and throws IN HUDDLE Lee suddenly punches Andre through his face guard. Andre knocks into Shane and spins him around. Jamal then goes to punch Lee, he misses and nails Shane in the back of the Shane goes down hard.
REF: Delay of game! Five
IN HUDDLE: Lee suddenly punches Andre through his face guard. Andre knocks into Shane and spins him around. Jamal then goes to punch Lee, he misses and nails Shane in the back of the Shane goes down hard.
SUMMERALL: . I don't know. Something seems to be going on in the huddle. It looks like. yes, Shane Falco is on his back. They haven't run a play yet but Falco is This is not a good
MADDEN: This is not a good
ON FIELD: up with the huddle standing over him.
SHANE: ( clearing the cobwebs ) What happened? Am I hurt already? God damn it! I am the quarterback! I am the only one supposed to talk in the huddle!
SHANE: God damn it! I am the quarterback! I am the only one supposed to talk in the huddle!
ANDRE: Yeah, but he took my I don't give a shit! Shane gets to his feet.
SHANE: I don't give a shit! Shane gets to his feet.
SHANE: Huddle up! Everybody leans in.
SHANE: If you've got something to say, raise your hand! Is that Lee raises his hand. Shane grits his teeth and nods.
LEE: Suppose like, you don't feel good. Or you're hurt or something like that. Then what?
SHANE: Then you tell me before the huddle starts! Okay, listen up: 68 blue east storm toss. On two.
SHANE: That's to the right. No, it's to the left.
JAMAL: That's to the right. No, it's to the left.
ANDRE: No, it's to the left.
SHANE: It's to the right!
JAMAL: You better be quiet, Shane, they'll hear Delay of game! Five What the hell is going Well, Pat, so far the Redskins have minus ten yards offensively.
REF: Delay of game! Five What the hell is going Well, Pat, so far the Redskins have minus ten yards offensively.
MADDEN: Well, Pat, so far the Redskins have minus ten yards offensively.
ON O'NEIL: He's in bed sucking oxygen watching the game. Augustine sits with him.
O'NEIL: Turn it off. This is going to kill me.
SHANE: Blue 68. Blue 68! Hut! Hut!
SHANE: Have you suddenly decided you don't like me, Jamal?
JAMAL: Oh. You said it was to the right, didn't you?
IN HUDDLE: Shane leans in.
SHANE: Okay. Let's try something simple. 18 red left slot open. That's to the left! Eighteen red! Eighteen red! Hut! Hut!
SHANE: Eighteen red! Eighteen red! Hut! Hut!
SHANE: Holding! Number 78. Shane looks at Jamal who is trying desperately to hide his number. Shane leans in with the next play. Cochran, playing right tackle, can't resist.
REF: Holding! Number 78. Shane looks at Jamal who is trying desperately to hide his number. Shane leans in with the next play. Cochran, playing right tackle, can't resist.
COCHRAN: You see. We should have prayed.
SHANE: Shut up! Pass. 22 Solo right slot 'A,' Y stick. On one. They break and come to the line of scrimmage.
SHANE: Twenty-two green. Hut! Shane does a play action fake to Lamont and then turns downfield. Wham! He's buried by three defenders. The ball squirts loose and the Patriots recover.
ON PILACHOWSKI: He's livid on the sidelines. As his offensive line comes off he rants at them. Shane hobbles off past: The defense rushing onto the field led by
SUMMERALL: ( V.O. ) Washington comes up a minus fourteen yards on their first possession.
ON PATRIOTS: They break their huddle and come to the line of scrimmage. Bateman is snorting fire.
EARL: Wide right! You got wide right! Check on the wing!
PATRIOT QB: Blue fourteen!
ON SIDELINE: Defensive Coordinator Banes rolls his eyes. The Ref moves the ball five yards and gives the offside sign.
ON PATRIOTS: They come out of the huddle again.
PATRIOT QB: Green eighty-seven!
ON SIDELINE: Banes is screaming something unintelligible at Bateman.
ON BALL: It's marched downfield by the Ref, this time fifteen yards.
SUMMERALL: ( V.O. ) I think the Redskins just set a record for penalties in the first three minutes. We're waiting for the stats on that.
ON SHANE: He's rolling in the back field again looking for a receiver.
SHANE'S POV: Nothing but meat coming at him.
IN HUDDLE: Everyone is dirty, sweating bullets and breathing very hard. Shane leans into the huddle. Lee is raising his hand.
SHANE: I don't feel good. Oh, God!
LEE: I don't feel good. Oh, God!
ANDRE: Oh, God!
COCHRAN: Man, that's ripe!
JAMAL: Man, that's ripe!
EVANS: Shane, we got to move!
SHANE: Okay. On the count of three. Everyone more left. Hut! Hut! Hut!
ON HUDDLE: Eleven bentover guys move in unison with tiny steps to their left.
PATRIOT LB: What the fuck is this?
SUMMERALL: John, how many years have we been calling games together?
MADDEN: Seventeen, I think.
IN HUDDLE: Shane calls the play as they continue to move as one.
SHANE: U brown right, west 19 A lead. That's you, Mickey. Puke on him if you have to.
ON HUDDLE: The huddle stops and they break for the line of scrimmage.
ON LEE: He lines up face to face with the Patriots' defensive end. Lee breathes in the guy's face and the Patriot gags.
SUMMERALL: ( V.O. ) That puts the Redskins in field goal range. And here comes Pacifico to see if he can get them on the board before the half ends.
ON PACIFICO: He flicks his smoke away as he runs out onto the field.
SHANE: It's a perfect snap. Shane spots it, Pacifico belts it. And it goes through for three.
ON PACIFICO: He gets high fives all around. Then Bateman runs up and in his ecstasy, slaps Pacifico in the head. Pacifico goes down, knocked out cold.
ON CHEERLEADERS: Led by Annabelle, the girls are doing a stirring finale to "Hail to the Redskins."
SHANE: We can't put three plays together without a penalty, a fumble of a fight. You still got a whole half left. You're a thoroughbred out there running against a bunch a nags. You can pick these fuckers apart. Shane smiles through his pain.
SHANE: You're good. You're really good.
ON WILKINSON: Earl is covering the intended receiver. He deftly steps in front of the guy, and makes a diving catch.
SUMMERALL: Another terrific interception by Smith. That's his second.
MADDEN: Yeah, this guy is a He finds the paper he's looking for.
MADDEN: According to the Redskins, Ray Smith. is. that's weird. No college given, no high school given. It just says he's been a resident of the state of Maryland for the last four years and five months. Likes to CUT TO: EXT. FIELD - DAY Shane is walking toward the huddle. In his ear, he hears: Half your job is getting that huddle in the right mindset. Use your imagination, Shane stops short of the huddle. Everyone is looking at him. There is a beat and then Shane steps in.
SHANE: Okay, let's all take a few seconds to think about what we were doing for a living. just last week. Shane looks around the huddle. Everybody looks pained and/or depressed.
SHANE: Good. Let's kick ass. Red right pass 15 x
SHANE: Red fifteen! Red fifteen! Hut!
MONTAGE: A ) SHANE Murray pulls it in for fifteen yards.
ON PACIFICO: Boom! He boots the extra point. Scoreboard: Patriots 17, Redskins 10.
ON HUDDLE: It breaks and comes to the line of scrimmage. Shane drops into the shotgun.
SHANE: Hut, hut!
ON FRANKLIN: He's wide open five yards from the goal line.
ON SHANE: They're breathing down his back.
SHANE'S POV: Suddenly, opposing jerseys are everywhere. Shane dumps the ball. He's immediately decked by a defensive end.
ON BALL: We watch the flight of it in SLOW MOTION. We FOLLOW it right INTO the hands of. a New England Patriot defensive back.
ON SHANE: He's down and not moving.
ON ANNABELLE: She falls to her knees in pain.
SUMMERALL: ( V.O. ) Falco is intercepted. That's too bad.
ON SHANE: He's helped off the field and onto the bench. ON McGINTY He grabs Bateman before he can run out onto the field.
BATEMAN: The ball. Okay, Coach.
ON PATRIOTS: They line up.
PATRIOT QB: Hut, hut, hut!
ON CROWD: They go wild!
ON ANNABELLE: She does a cartwheel. ON McGINTY He's leaning over a groggy Shane on the
SHANE: I can't.
ON HUDDLE: They're all turned and watching as Shane makes his way slowly out onto the field. Annabelle watches him closely.
SUMMERALL: ( V.O. ) Here comes Falco with eighteen seconds left on the clock.
ON HUDDLE: It breaks and Shane stands over Evans and looks out at the defense. Nasty-looking linebackers and cornerbacks stare at him.
SHANE: 22 green!
SHANE: Check! Black 43! Black 43!
ON ANDRE: He's down in a three-point stance facing a defender. He whispers to Reese:
ANDRE: What's that mean?
REESE: ( whispering back ) He's changing the play. Black 43!
SHANE: Black 43!
ON LAMONT: He shifts position in the backfield.
LAMONT: ( to Shane ) Is this right?
SHANE: ( shaking his head ) Black 43 left!
ON SHANE: Hut! Hut!
SHANE: Hut! Hut!
SUMMERALL: ( V.O. ) Lamont scores!
ON O'NEIL: He looks ten years younger as he and Augustine watch.
SUMMERALL: ( V.O. ) With eight seconds remaining, Pacifico will try the extra point that will send this game into This turned out to be one hell of a contest,
ON PACIFICO: He sets up for the kick.
ON SHANE: He waits for the snap.
SHANE: Shane catches the snap and pitches the ball out to Murray from his holding position.
ON O'NEIL: He pounds on Augustine.
ON SHANE: He's still under the defensive end. Reese Evans pulls the guy off and bends down to Shane manages a painful smile.
REESE: We won, Shane. We won!
SHANE: . ultimately, it's a pain thing, you know? I mean, it's Darwinian, the survival of the numbest. Whoever can take the pain most, gets the largest contract. It's sick. He finishes his martini and throws the olive over his shoulder.
WOMAN: IN RED Exactly. Let me buy you another. She signals to the bartender.
IN RED: Exactly. Let me buy you another. She signals to the bartender.
SHANE: ( slurring ) I'm glad that you are Hey, are you alright? I'll take you up to your room, if you like.
SHANE: I would like.
SHANE: Here's home. Shane fumbles for a key. Another stunning-looking woman suddenly appears from down the hall. This is the
SHANE: ( looking at both Oooooh. Bookends.
ANNABELLE: ( to the girls ) Go away. Both of you.
SHANE: ( to Annabelle ) These are my guests.
SHANE: Why did you do that? Annabelle opens the door.
ANNABELLE: You were about to be That's what I was INT. ROOM - NIGHT Annabelle is pulling the bed down as Shane falls into a chair.
SHANE: ( as he enters ) That's what I was
ANNABELLE: They work the bar downstairs looking for drunk Redskins. Shane looks embarrassed.
SHANE: I guess they found one.
ANNABELLE: Don't feel so bad. It's a rookie mistake. She turns and sees that he's already passed She looks at him not unkindly. Then she unbuckles his belt and starts pulling his pants off.
ON ANNABELLE: She's wearing nothing but a Redskins' T- shirt. She quickly bends over him.
ANNABELLE: Here. Take this.
SHANE: ( groaning ) What is it?
ANNABELLE: It's for the pain. Take it. It's only a little bit illegal. Shane takes it and swigs a glass of water.
SHANE: Oh, God. I've got to go to the bathroom. It's far away, isn't I'll help. We'll just take our time. She helps him get out of bed. When he
ANNABELLE: I'll help. We'll just take our time. She helps him get out of bed. When he
ANNABELLE: Oh, man. My hair You took a hell of a beating. The martinis didn't help, either. She walks him to the bathroom like an old man. He shuffles in and closes the door.
SHANE: Oh, man. My hair You took a hell of a beating. The martinis didn't help, either. She walks him to the bathroom like an old man. He shuffles in and closes the door.
ANNABELLE: You took a hell of a beating. The martinis didn't help, either. She walks him to the bathroom like an old man. He shuffles in and closes the door.
ANNABELLE: Don't be afraid if you've got blood in your urine. That's Did you undress me?
ANNABELLE: SHANE ( O.S. ) And you. slept here with me?
ANNABELLE: SHANE ( O.S. ) Did we. ?
ANNABELLE: Are you kidding? You were catatonic. He appears again at the door.
SHANE: No blood.
ANNABELLE: Good. Back to bed. He leans on her as she walks him back. He gets into bed with a moan.
SHANE: May I ask you a personal question?
SHANE: Do you do this for all Redskin quarterbacks?
ANNABELLE: Of course not.
SHANE: Then why me?
ANNABELLE: I don't know. I guess I can't resist a man who can take a hit.
SHANE: I can't take a hit!
ANNABELLE: Shhh. It's all in your head. Now, get some
ANNABELLE: You're the golden boy in the press this
ANNABELLE: 'Falco scores big.' Well. not really. Hey, a lot of the regular players are starting to cross the picket line.
ANNABELLE: It doesn't say. Shane comes out of the bathroom dressed and ready to go. He's still moving slowly and in great pain.
ANNABELLE: Where are you going?
SHANE: McGinty called a dinner meeting with the whole Shane tries to put on his coat, but he's so sore he can't. Annabelle helps him.
SHANE: Thank you. Thanks for. everything. You saved my life.
ANNABELLE: No. Probably just your wallet and your watch.
SHANE: And that pill, that sure worked.
ANNABELLE: You're basic double D Vicodin. But be careful: It's habit- forming. The best stuff always is. There's another awkward silence.
SHANE: Ice both knees and that shoulder before bed.
ANNABELLE: Ice both knees and that shoulder before bed.
MONTAGE: A ) ANDRE AND JAMAL the brothers.
O'NEIL: I'll give you 50 thousand dollars for a bite of that steak! Alright, listen up: There have been a lot of rumors about the regular players crossing the picket lines. They are not rumors. Many union players have now seen the error of their ways and are coming back in
REPORTER: Coach, what will be your strategy against New York this Sunday? Out in the restaurant, patrons see the players and a few break into "Hail to the Suddenly, the whole restaurant starts Shane looks embarrassed. Pacifico stands up on his seat, and conducts the singing. Andre and Jamal hold their lobsters in the air and make them dance to the song.
NEWSPERSON: ( V.O. ) . The Palm patrons showed an impromptu appreciation tonight for the new Washington Redskins. They may be unknowns and far from superstars, but it sure looks like they have charmed the fans. Martel looks very angry.
SHANE: Hi. Come in.
ANNABELLE: She gives him a bottle of pills.
ANNABELLE: We don't travel with the team. So, here's Tylenol with codeine, regular Vicodins, the magic bullet one that I gave you before, and a couple of Darvons if you actually break something. Pop 'em in the ambulance.
SHANE: Wow. Thanks.
ANNABELLE: I'll be watching on TV. The Giants got back three of their four defensive linemen.
SHANE: Yeah. I know.
ANNABELLE: What can I say? Go from the shotgun and scramble your ass off. Shane smiles at her. She suddenly grabs him and they kiss big- Then she breaks and walks quickly away. Shane doesn't know what to make of this.
MORRIS: ( in Shane's ear ) Hello, again!
MADDEN: That's all-pro Hank Morris's third sack, his second here in the fourth quarter and the sixth of the day for
SUMMERALL: If he can stay alive that long. Ten-three New York in what has turned out to be an incredible defensive
LINDELL: . because it's about brothers, and brotherhood and standing together against the oppressors. That's why I am so grateful to our Teamster brothers who have joined us here today in New York to protest the greed squad known as the N.F.L.
IN HUDDLE: exhausted. Shane leans in.
SHANE: ( to Reese Evans ) You got to double up on He's too far outside for me to get to him. ( to Cochran ) Bring him down and sit on him.
EVANS: He's too far outside for me to get to him. Bring him down and sit on him.
COCHRAN: He's huge! He's been beating the crap out of me all day! I feel like a rag doll out I'll help this time.
LEE: I'll help this time.
SHANE: Okay. Spread left 'A' Right, roll right Half Back Sail. On two.
SHANE: Red, fifteen. Hut,
ON SHANE: He spots his receiver, he cocks his arm and wham! Morris decks him. And, of course, lands on him. Oooof!
MORRIS: ( to Shane ) It's just me, fuck- You want a time-out? That looks like it Huddle up!
SHANE: Huddle up! Everyone gathers around.
SHANE: Same thing. Except. Let him in. Don't touch him.
LEE: Shut up! Let him through. On two. They break the huddle. Shane goes into a Red fifteen. Hut!
EVANS: Shut up! Let him through. On two. They break the huddle. Shane goes into a Red fifteen. Hut!
SHANE: Shut up! Let him through. On two. They break the huddle. Shane goes into a Red fifteen. Hut!
SHANE: Red fifteen. Hut!
SHANE: Get him! Andre and Jamal grab onto Morris who starts stumbling down field with the ball still stuck in his helmet.
MURRAY'S POV: It's absolutely QUIET ( he's deaf, remember? ) as he soars towards Morris's head, helmet and in the helmet, which flies off and rolls across the field with the ball still stuck in OUT OF THE SILENCE, we suddenly hear the hit and the crowd roar. Morris goes down like a building with Murray buried in his throat.
O'NEIL: Now that's a hit!
MADDEN: Lee scores! Lee scores! Lee scores! I love to see a fat guy
ON LEE: He gets up in jubilation, spikes the ball/helmet combination, and runs through the back of the end zone. But he doesn't stop. He's aiming for a low wall that separates the first row of fans from the field.
ON MICKEY: He launches himself into the stands in ON FOUR FANS Crunch! Lee lands on all four of them.
ON FOOTBALL: It's hiked into Shane's hands and Pacifico boots the extra point.
ON SCOREBOARD: "Giants 10 Redskins 10
ON SIDELINE: Murray and Lee are getting congratulations from everyone.
PACIFICO: ( to Murray ) What a hit! ( slower ) What a hit!
EVANS: ( to Murray ) I'm proud of you, kid.
ANDRE: You're the one, you're the one, you're the You think that's worth a shoe deal? McGinty walks into the middle of it. Stop with the lovefest! Let's get the goddamn ball back and win this CUT TO: EXT. FIELD - DAY We're CLOSE ON Bateman as he lines up for the kick-off. Everybody in the stadium knows that an on-side kick is coming. Bateman is standing in the hot spot for recovering the ball. Shane and everyone with decent hands is on the field.
LEE: You think that's worth a shoe deal? McGinty walks into the middle of it. Stop with the lovefest! Let's get the goddamn ball back and win this CUT TO: EXT. FIELD - DAY We're CLOSE ON Bateman as he lines up for the kick-off. Everybody in the stadium knows that an on-side kick is coming. Bateman is standing in the hot spot for recovering the ball. Shane and everyone with decent hands is on the field.
SHANE: No! Danny, go down! You're using up the But Bateman likes this new job: kick-off returner! Especially after he runs over a Giant and stiff-arms another. Bateman is finally trapped on the far sideline after gaining perhaps eight yards. So, he turns and starts running back the other way. Shane has been chasing him and now sees Bateman running back at him. Shane has no choice but to throw himself in front of Bateman's legs. Bateman goes down. Shane jumps up:
SHANE: ( to ref ) Time out!
BATEMAN: Beautiful tackle, ( V.O. ) Now that's something you don't see everyday!
SUMMERALL: ( V.O. ) Now that's something you don't see everyday!
ON CLOCK: Bateman has burned up most of the clock. Eighteen seconds remain.
ON SIDELINE: McGinty, Shane and Pacifico confer.
SHANE: We got time for one play, but if we don't get it out of bounds, the game is over. Yeah, but you're looking at a sixty-five yard kick from here.
PACIFICO: ( smoking a butt ) No problem.
SHANE: ( to Shane ) You hold it. I'll kick What the fuck.
PACIFICO: ( to Shane ) You hold it. I'll kick What the fuck.
MADDEN: I can't believe it! McGinty is gonna let Pacifico try the field goal from sixty-five yards out!
SUMMERALL: Hey, John, this kid has got a heck of a foot.
STRAM: But sixty-five yards? Come on!
ON SHANE: He's set up to receive the snap. Pacifico lines himself up the way soccer- style kickers do. Then he takes a drag on his smoke, and flicks it away.
SUMMERALL: ( V.O. ) No, I think you imagined that one,
SHANE: You look great, Lou, you know that?
LOU: Really? Thanks, Shane. That means a lot to me.
SHANE: The snap is perfect. Pacifico boots the shit out of it.
ON BALL: End over end, yard after yard, it flies straight and true.
ANNABELLE: Are you hurt?
SHANE: No. Not really.
ANNABELLE: You're getting used to being slapped around. That's a good sign.
SHANE: Nothing comes out.
ANNABELLE: Would you like to come in and make love?
SHANE: Yes. No. I'm here because . I don't want to be alone.
ANNABELLE: Most of the world feels that way. You don't have to be embarrassed about it.
SHANE: But to tell you the truth. I'm kind of scared of you. Annabelle takes that in and thinks about it.
ANNABELLE: I won't hurt you. She takes his hand and leads him inside.
ANNABELLE: That shoulder is going to need special Annabelle pulls her jersey off and gently presses her breasts into Shane's back. Shane puts a pillow over his head to drown out the ecstasy. After a beat, he pulls the pillow away.
SHANE: You know what hurts
ANNABELLE: I can't imagine.
SHANE: Their defensive end punched me in the Annabelle starts laughing.
SHANE: Seriously. It's killing me. Annabelle is laughing hard now as Shane rolls DISSOLVE TO: INT. ANNABELLE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT Shane and Annabelle are in a close, after-sex kind of cuddle thing. Shane is unburdening himself.
SHANE: . after that game, after being beaten that badly in front of the whole country, after humiliating myself, my team, my school, my family, I mean did you know that I set two Sugar Bowl records?! I was sacked eleven times! I threw six Okay. Calm down.
ANNABELLE: Okay. Calm down.
SHANE: Anyway, after that, I could never seem to adjust in the pros. I was too scared. I lost my balls. We see Annabelle's hand move slightly under
ANNABELLE: Well, they're back.
SHANE: You know what I mean. My nerve. I lost the edge you need to play this game.
ANNABELLE: I don't believe that. I don't think it just goes away. It was only one bad day, Shane. Everybody has those.
SHANE: No. Somehow, I convinced myself that I couldn't ever win the big game. I got so down, that I was afraid to be playing when a game was on the line. I was afraid to screw up. That's the sure sign of a loser. From there, it wasn't very far to thinking that I'll never win, that I didn't deserve to win at anything. Including You're wrong. You're winning now. You're winning me. They kiss real good.
ANNABELLE: You're wrong. You're winning now. You're winning me. They kiss real good.
REPORTER: Bob, I'm standing in front of Redskins owner, Edward Frances O'Neil's home and all we know right now is that the Washington player previously known as Ray Smith is in fact Earl Samuel We see two photographs of Earl: One with his current beard and the other, his clean-shaven mug shot of five years ago.
INSERT: We see two photographs of Earl: One with his current beard and the other, his clean-shaven mug shot of five years ago.
ANCHOR: Any idea how Wilkinson's identity was discovered and who leaked it to the media?
REPORTER: No, Bob, but rumor has it that the National Football League Player's Association had something to do with it.
ANCHOR: Thanks, Hank.
O'NEIL: Where are we gonna keep In the stadium. We'll fix up something comfortable for him and he'll get his exercise by kicking the shit out of N.F.L. receivers.
O'NEIL: How did you pull that How else? With your Take this cow piss out of here.
O'NEIL: ( to Augustine ) Take this cow piss out of here.
AUGUSTINE: You used to love asparagus soup. They say that when the taste buds go, you're at the beginning of the end. Augustine leaves with the tray. I want to keep Falco after the strike ends. As Martel's back-up.
O'NEIL: Let's keep 'em all. The hell with the You've got to take the union players back once the strike ends. It's part of the collective bargaining agreement.
O'NEIL: The hell I do! I'm dying! Let 'em sue me. They'll do worse than
O'NEIL: God damn 'em! Then you got to beat Dallas. The whole country will be watching. All those millionaires down there deserve to have their noses rubbed in it. Ed, let's be honest: beating Dallas is gonna be a hell of a trick.
O'NEIL: You can pull it off. You proved that winning doesn't have to look pretty. These boys are hungry for it, Jimmy.
O'NEIL: Okay, Jimmy, okay. But you beat Dallas for me, and then I'll go gently into that night.
LEE: You'll score, too, with a Cadillac from Coleman Cadillac. It's a big car for a big man.
LEE: ( same thing ) You'll score, too, with a Cadillac from Coleman's Cadillac. It's a big car for a big man.
MONTAGE: A ) EXT. STADIUM All of them are signing as fast as they can.
LEE: ( in a monotone ) You'll score, too, with a Cadillac from Coleman Cadillac. It's a big car, for a big man.
LEE: ( exploding ) What?! I'm not doing it again! Who are you, Orson Welles?! This is
SHANE: What's this?
MARTEL: This is a visit.
SHANE: A visit. Who let you I used to nail one of the housekeepers.
MARTEL: I used to nail one of the housekeepers.
SHANE: Lucky girl.
MARTEL: ( pointing to the You know who these guys are, don't you?
SHANE: Dallas Cowboys. Howdy.
MARTEL: You'll be seeing a lot of these guys tomorrow.
SHANE: What do you want?
MARTEL: Who, me? Not much. But these boys wanted a little head start on There's a beat and then Shane suddenly bolts for the door. But the two linemen grab and hold him.
SHANE: I'm flattered that you actually think we have a chance to win.
MARTEL: It can be a game of luck. And under no circumstances can we allow a scab team to go three and O. Especially against the Dallas Cowboys. It's just not good for the
SHANE: Is the union behind this 'visit'?
MARTEL: I can't really say, Shane. By the way, have you ever tried throwing a football with bruised ribs? He kicks Shane viciously in the side. Shane The pain makes it damn near impossible. The linemen drops Shane on the floor.
MARTEL: The pain makes it damn near impossible. The linemen drops Shane on the floor.
MARTEL: And one other thing: I want you to stay away from Annabelle. Shane is gasping on the floor.
MARTEL: The sad fact is she won't give me the time of day. But you can't have everything I want. I can't let that happen. So, you gotta stop seeing her. Just on principle. Martel viciously kicks Shane again. Shane Let me hear you say it. Shane is trying to get his breath.
MARTEL: Let me hear you say it. Shane is trying to get his breath.
MARTEL: Come on. You can do I won't go out with her
SHANE: ( barely visible ) I won't go out with her
MARTEL: ( to the linemen ) ( to Shane ) Hey, have a great game!
LINDELL: I think that Mister Matheson here, and myself, are very close to an agreement that will put the 'pro' back in pro-football.
REPORTER: Mister Matheson, what are the sticking points in the negotiations as far as the owners are Only one: that the players immediately go back to work with no change in the existing Lindell looks uncomfortable. But he smiles CUT TO: INT. MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL BOOTH - NIGHT SONG" is just ending. AL MICHAELS does his on camera intro.
MATHESON: Only one: that the players immediately go back to work with no change in the existing Lindell looks uncomfortable. But he smiles CUT TO: INT. MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL BOOTH - NIGHT SONG" is just ending. AL MICHAELS does his on camera intro.
AL: Good evening from the Big O here in Washington D.C. where the mighty Dallas Cowboys take on the Cinderella Washington 'Scabskins' as they have come to be known. Hi, I'm Al Michaels and we are witnesses to a unique matchup tonight as Shane Falco and a contingent of strike players go up against the entire regular squad of the Dallas Cowboys. Yes, you heard right: every Cowboy has now crossed the picket line, some as late as this afternoon, and they will all play tonight. Can a rag tag group of hasbeens and castoffs stand up to what was once called America's team? And what about the strike itself? It has been so ineffective that many predict it will be over before this game ends. Stay tuned as Boomer and Dan join me for strike ball, D.C. style.
SHANE: Whatever you say, McGinty walks into the middle of the locker room and goes into pre-game speech mode. Alright, listen up. The strike is just about history. By tomorrow, you will no longer be Redskins. It's important that you leave here, however, with the knowledge that you have made a difference in your own life, in the owner's life or what's left of it and especially the fans'. You have proven to a skeptical America that sports is not about contracts, or agents or shoe deals. Sports is about rising
AL: That is one very big leg on Lou Pacifico. He's a big reason why this strike team is two and 0.
DAN: But the fact is, a kicker does not an offense make. I think tonight the Scabskins will have a very rude But you have to admit, Dan, Falco is proving to be the real thing.
BOOMER: But you have to admit, Dan, Falco is proving to be the real thing.
DAN: Well, Boomer, no, I don't have to admit eyes ) Here we go.
BOOMER: ( rolling his eyes ) Here we go.
ON SHANE: He walks out onto the field to join the He turns and sees a smiling Annabelle. Shane gives her a guilty wave and then cringes with the pain of just having to lift his arm.
ANNABELLE: He turns and sees a smiling Annabelle. Shane gives her a guilty wave and then cringes with the pain of just having to lift his arm.
COCHRAN: ( to Butler )
BUTLER: No problem.
ON SHANE: He under-throws a very weak-looking pass to Shane grits his teeth against the pain.
ON COCHRAN: He's dazed and still on the ground. Butler walks over and bends down to him.
BUTLER: I'm gonna autograph your body with bruises, you scab-ass son of a CUT TO:
BUTLER: How's that side feel?
SHANE: ( grimacing ) Like Christmas morning. What's the matter with your arm? Are you
DAN: What pursuit! Butler never gave up on him. That's a 270-pound guy who moves like a Dan, I think Butler's hit on Falco was late, to tell you the truth.
BOOMER: Dan, I think Butler's hit on Falco was late, to tell you the truth.
DAN: Well, of course you do. You were a wimp Easy, guys.
AL: Easy, guys.
ON SCOREBOARD: Dallas 7, Washington 0.
ON SCOREBOARD: Dallas 10, Washington 0.
SCOREBOARD: Dallas 24, Washington 0.
REDSKINS: sitting in the stands look satisfied.
ON CLOCK: There's thirty-two seconds left in the half.
SHANE: Okay. Red right 15 X 15 X hut!
SHANE: 15 X hut!
LAMONT: Lamont sees an open lane and Shane follows him. He eats up 15 yards before two defensive halfbacks close in. Lamont throws an incredible block and takes out both guys. Shane blows by and heads for the end zone. Only a safety stands between Shane and pay CLOSE ON SHANE His side is killing him with every step he When the safety moves up on him, Shane panics and goes down in the same kind of slide that Eddie Martel did in the beginning. Boom! The GUN SOUNDS and the half ends. Shane sees Redskin trainers running out onto the field. He turns and sees Lamont rolling on the ground in pain as he holds his bad knee.
AL: That's the end of the
DAN: Al, the battle is being fought and won in the trenches. You can't expect a bunch of pick- up players to stand up to a professional pass rush like the Cowboys.
BOOMER: There's still a whole half left, Dan. And remember, Falco is proving to be a second- half quarterback.
DAN: You got to be kidding.
BOOMER: Those big, fat boys in the trenches get awful tired. You ought to know that, Dan. No laughter.
AL: Okay, let's join Chris Berman with our half- time show. Chris? After a beat we hear:
AL: What's wrong with you He started it.
BOOMER: He started it.
DAN: I did not! You called me fat!
BOOMER: I did not! But you Dan reaches across Al and grabs Boomer by the Stop it! The three of them start wrestling in the CUT TO: INT. REDSKIN LOCKER ROOM - NIGHT Everyone is nursing a bruise or some sort of wound. Shane is nowhere to be seen. McGinty walks into the middle of the locker Alright, listen up: The strike is officially over. They're announcing it on TV right now. So this is it, gentlemen. We have one half left to keep from being totally humiliated. You are better than the present score. You have nothing but your own self-respect riding on this game. It's up to you. Here's your
AL: Stop it! The three of them start wrestling in the CUT TO: INT. REDSKIN LOCKER ROOM - NIGHT Everyone is nursing a bruise or some sort of wound. Shane is nowhere to be seen. McGinty walks into the middle of the locker Alright, listen up: The strike is officially over. They're announcing it on TV right now. So this is it, gentlemen. We have one half left to keep from being totally humiliated. You are better than the present score. You have nothing but your own self-respect riding on this game. It's up to you. Here's your
SHANE: I'm sorry, Roland. That was a great block.
ROLAND: For my last play in football, I'll take that block. Shane looks terribly guilty.
ROLAND: I thought you were going to score. What happened? Did you Shane can't look at him, but he nods.
ROLAND: That's what I thought.
SHANE: You were a warrior, Roland. I'm gonna miss It was a dream come true. Go kick some ass for me. The paramedics roll him away. Shane slumps against the wall near tears. McGinty comes out of the locker room. He locks eyes with Shane for a beat. And then McGinty turns his back on him and walks away.
ROLAND: It was a dream come true. Go kick some ass for me. The paramedics roll him away. Shane slumps against the wall near tears. McGinty comes out of the locker room. He locks eyes with Shane for a beat. And then McGinty turns his back on him and walks away.
SID: Hey, Shane, I just He smacks Shane on his bad side and Shane Congratulations on Shane is staying on. He's gonna be Martel's Everyone stares at Shane for a beat.
WILKINSON: Congratulations on Shane is staying on. He's gonna be Martel's Everyone stares at Shane for a beat.
SID: Shane is staying on. He's gonna be Martel's Everyone stares at Shane for a beat.
ANDRE: Is that true?
SHANE: Yes, Andre. It's true. Nobody says anything for a beat.
FRANKLIN: I got to tell you, Shane, you played the first half like you were staying. Like you already had a contract. Shane looks around the room at this beaten bunch. No one makes eye contact with him.
SHANE: You're right, Clifford. And I'm sorry. But now I want to go out there and either beat these bastards or die trying. I never wanted to beat anybody so bad in my Earl Wilkinson finally speaks up.
EARL: I don't know what yawl are doin' tomorrow, but my ass is goin' back to jail. But if I gotta go, I want to go back a Hell, I'm retiring. I have thirty minutes of football left in my whole career. I'm Me, too, Reese!
EVANS: Hell, I'm retiring. I have thirty minutes of football left in my whole career. I'm Me, too, Reese!
BATEMAN: Me, too, Reese!
EARL: Let's get it on! Everybody turns to Shane.
SHANE: Gentlemen, our problem is the Cowboys aren't afraid of us. But they should be!
LAMONT: Damn straight! Everybody whoops!
SHANE: We've got one chance on offense to make our stand the first play of the half.
JAMAL: One touchdown ain't gonna help, Shane.
SHANE: No. But one nasty-ass play might. We just gotta be brave. And trust each other.
SHANE: Help me with this. Somebody has to tape me CUT TO:
SHANE: Somebody has to tape me CUT TO:
DAN: It's about time. I say let the professionals back on the field. The fans deserve nothing Yeah, you would say
BOOMER: Yeah, you would say
ON BALL: zone for a touchback.
ON SHANE: He starts to follow the offense out on the field. Then he turns and sees Annabelle engrossed in a cheer. He runs over to her.
ANNABELLE: Are you okay? Is it your side?
SHANE: I'm okay. I owe you an What? You do?
ANNABELLE: What? You do?
SHANE: Yes. I'll explain later. But thank you for believing in me. You give me strength just looking at you.
ON SHANE: He breaks the kiss and looks up in the stands at Eddie Martel. Shane gives him the finger. The crowd goes "Wooooo!" at that too. Martel doesn't think this is funny. Shane walks onto the field leaving a confused but happy Annabelle. He walks past Dallas defensive lineman
BUTLER: That wasn't too smart.
SHANE: Suck my dick.
ON HUDDLE: It breaks and Shane walks to the line of We can see now that Wilkinson and Bateman are now part of the offense. They line up as receivers opposite defensive halfbacks. In fact, everyone but Shane is on the line of scrimmage, paired up across from a cowboy. Shane leans over Reese and takes in the Dallas defense. The Dallas MIDDLE LINEBACKER yells at Shane.
LINEBACKER: Are you ready for more
SHANE: Blue thirteen! Blue thirteen! Hut! Hut!
MONTAGE: On the snap, many things happen at once:
ON FIELD: are punching, kicking and gouging the Dallas WHISTLES BLOW. Flags fly everywhere. Most of the Dallas players are down and Jamal stands across from a DEFENSIVE LINEMAN. He hasn't touched the guy. But he nods to the player to look at his hand. The guy looks down just as Jamal flicks open a deadly-looking switchblade. The guy jumps back and yells:
DEFENDER: He's got a knife! But there is so much confusion that nobody pays any attention. Jamal slips the knife Whoa! Flags fly everywhere! I've never seen anything like Unbelievable! One Washington player had a Cowboy in what appeared to be a police choke I see at least five flags. no six! The officials are going crazy trying to figure out the penalties as Shane and the offense back up and make room for the Dallas medical staff who come running out on the Some Dallas players are livid:
BUTLER: ( to the Ref ) He scratched my eyes He hit me on purpose!
LINEBACKER: He hit me on purpose!
ON REFEREE: He faces the cameras, turns on his microphone and sums up the penalties.
REF: conduct, number 72, number 81 and number 87 on the offense, fifteen . times three. that's forty-five yards. Illegal use of hands, number 48 on the offense, fifteen yards. That makes it sixty yards. Unnecessary roughness number 65 and number 32, fifteen yards. that's, wait. forty-five. no, thirty. . how many yards so
ON BALL: A ref is taking a very long walk with it. He stops at the Redskin two-yard line and puts it down.
IN HUDDLE: Shane leans in.
SHANE: Okay, everybody, stick
BUTLER: I can't believe you went for my eyes!
COCHRAN: Shut up! I'm gonna do it again 'cause it was Black 98! Black 98!
ON SHANE: Black 98! Black 98!
SHANE: Black 98! Black 98!
ON COCHRAN: He drops Butler with a vicious forearm. Shane flicks the ball over the middle to Murray who pulls it in for fifteen yards and a first down.
ON SHANE: He's in the shotgun calling signals.
SHANE: Hut! Hut!
ON COCHRAN: He slips while he's blocking Butler who takes
ON SHANE: He's got Franklin crossing in the end zone. He cocks and throws, and simultaneously gets decked by Butler.
ON BALL: A Dallas defensive halfback goes up for it but just tips the ball. It keeps going now end over end. right into the waiting arms of Franklin who is standing by himself in the end zone. Franklin is shocked. His teammates run INTO FRAME and mob him.
ON SHANE: He's on his back.
ON ANNABELLE: She looks worried as trainers run out onto the field.
ON SHANE: Trainers are bending over him. He's out but
SHANE: Put your tits on my A trainer hears that and looks worried. Shane's teammates run up and carry him off the field.
ON FRANKLIN: He's holding for Pacifico on the extra point. On the snap, Franklin bobbles the ball but manages to put it down. Pacifico belts it through the uprights. Scoreboard: Dallas 24, Washington 21.
ON WILKINSON: He's on the field calling for a fair catch. He makes it.
ON SHANE: McGinty is still bent over him. Shane is in major pain but nods his head.
SHANE: I can do it.
ON WILKINSON: He rolls again, but no one is open. He crosses the line of scrimmage, is hit and goes down.
ON CLOCK: It continues to run and passes twenty seconds as we watch.
ON REDSKINS: They're hurrying back to the line of scrimmage. Wilkinson stands over center. On the snap, Wilkinson throws the ball out of
ON SHANE: He shakily follows Pacifico out onto the Reese Evans catches up with him.
EVANS: ( to Shane ) Are you okay?
SHANE: Just make it a good And you'll do the rest,
ON BALL: Evans leans over it.
ON SHANE: waiting for the snap. But something is bothering him.
SHANE: ( to Pacifico ) Lou, are you alright?
PACIFICO: I'm sorry. They know where my family lives.
SHANE: ( through his legs ) Come on, Shane!
EVANS: ( through his legs ) Come on, Shane!
SHANE: The ball is snapped perfectly. Shane catches it and spots it perfectly. Pacifico moves to kick it. And Shane pulls the ball away. Pacifico flies through the air like Snoopy as he kicks nothing but air. He lands hard. Shane jumps to his feet and starts running.
ON SHANE: surprise. He sweeps around the right side. The Dallas middle linebacker has recovered and is moving quickly to cut Shane off. But Reese Evans comes out of nowhere and crushes the guy with a flying block. Shane cuts downfield and heads for the end zone with nobody near him, except: For the same safety from the first half who waits for him at the ten. The safety smiles as he takes a bead on Shane heads right for the guy. He puts his head down and smacks helmets with the safety. The guy goes down and Shane runs over him and into the end zone.
ON O'NEIL: He jumps out of bed.
ON ANNABELLE: She's jumping for joy.
ON SHANE: He spikes the shit out of the ball. And then sees something up field.
REF: Clipping. Number 77
ON O'NEIL: He's being helped back to bed by Augustine.
ON SHANE: He's walking slowly back to the line of ON McGINTY He looks sick. Shane walks up to Pacifico who is down. His arm is being immobilized by a team trainer.
PACIFICO: I broke my arm. Thank you. You saved my ass. Someday, you can explain what that was all about. We got no
SHANE: ( to himself ) What would Unitas do in this situation? ( pause ) I have no idea.
LEE: I'm so sorry, Shane. I'm sorry, everybody.
SHANE: No problem, Mickey. Hell of a hit, Reese.
EVANS: That's the one I was looking for. I can retire in peace now.
SHANE: Right after this play. So besides me, who really wants the ball? He looks around the huddle. He studies each face. And then he comes to rest on Brian Brian's eyes are shining. He doesn't need words here.
SHANE: ( to Murray ) Yeah. You want it, Brian. Let's hook up. ( signs as he Blue left slot open 'A' right. Two Jet 'X' drive. On three. Gentlemen, it's been an honor sharing the field of battle.
ON CLOCK: Three seconds are showing.
SHANE: Blue 58! Blue 58! Hut! Hut! Hut!
ON MURRAY: He cuts on a deep post.
ON SHANE: He steps up and throws a clean bullet downfield. He roars in pain as he throws it.
ON MURRAY: The pass is perfect. He pulls it in and beats his man to the end zone. Redskins win.
ON CROWD: It roars! "Hail to the Redskins" is Todd, Rod and Bob are screaming.
BRIAN'S POV: We HEAR NOTHING, but somehow the pure energy of the moment comes through.
ON SHANE: IN the SILENCE, he's walking in SLOW MOTION toward Annabelle. And everybody is smiling.
THE END: Writers : Vince McKewin
