ROGER CORMAN: ANDRE DeTOTH
MR. PINK: "Like a Virgin" is all about a girl who digs a guy with a big dick.  The whole song is a metaphor for big dicks.
MR. BLUE: No it's not.  It's about a girl who is very vulnerable and she's been fucked over a few times. Then she meets some guy who's really sensitive--
MR. PINK: --Whoa...whoa...time out Greenbay. Tell that bullshit to the tourists.
JOE: (looking through his address book) Toby...who the fuck is Toby? Toby...Toby...think...think... think...
MR. PINK: It's not about a nice girl who meets a sensitive boy.  Now granted that's what "True Blue" is about, no argument about that.
MR. ORANGE: Which one is "True Blue?"
NICE GUY EDDIE: You don't remember "True Blue?" That was a big ass hit for Madonna.  Shit, I don't even follow this Tops In Pops shit, and I've at least heard of "True Blue."
MR. ORANGE: Look, asshole, I didn't say I ain't heard of it.  All I asked was how does it go?  Excuse me for not being the world's biggest Madonna fan.
MR. BROWN: I hate Madonna.
MR. BLUE: I like her early stuff.  You know, "Lucky Star," "Borderline" - but once she got into her "Papa Don't Preach" phase, I don't know, I tuned out.
MR. PINK: Hey, fuck all that, I'm making a point here.  You're gonna make me lose my train of thought.
JOE: Oh fuck, Toby's that little china girl.
MR. WHITE: What's that?
JOE: I found this old address book in a jacket I ain't worn in a coon's age.  Toby what?  What the fuck was her last name?
MR. PINK: Where was I?
MR. ORANGE: You said "True Blue" was about a nice girl who finds a sensitive fella.  But "Like a Virgin" was a metaphor for big dicks.
MR. PINK: Let me tell ya what "Like a Virgin"'s about.  It's about some cooze who's a regular fuck machine. I mean all the time, morning, day, night, afternoon, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick, dick.
MR. BLUE: How many dicks was that?
MR. WHITE: A lot.
MR. PINK: Then one day she meets a John Holmes motherfucker, and it's like, whoa baby.  This mother fucker's like Charles Bronson in "The Great Escape."  He's diggin tunnels.  Now she's gettin this serious dick action, she's feelin something she ain't felt since forever.  Pain.
JOE: Chew?  Toby Chew?  No.
MR. PINK: It hurts.  It hurts her.  It shouldn't hurt.  Her pussy should be Bubble-Yum by now.  But when this cat fucks her, it hurts.  It hurts like the first time.  The pain is reminding a fuck machine what is was like to be a virgin. Hence, "Like a Virgin."
JOE: Wong?
MR. PINK: Fuck you, wrong.  I'm right!  What the fuck do you know about it anyway?  You're still listening to Jerry-fucking-Vale.
JOE: Not wrong, dumb ass, Wong!  You know, like the Chinese name?
MR. WHITE: Give me this fucking thing.
JOE: What the fuck do you think you're doin?  Give me my book back!
MR. WHITE: I'm sick of fuckin hearin it Joe, I'll give it back when we leave.
JOE: Whaddaya mean, give it to me when we leave, give it back now.
MR. WHITE: For the past fifteen minutes now, you've just been droning on with names.  "Toby...Toby...Toby... Toby Wong...Toby Wong...Toby Chung...fuckin Charlie Chan."  I got Madonna's big dick outta my right ear, and Toby Jap I-don't- know-what, outta my left.
JOE: What do you care?
MR. WHITE: When you're annoying as hell, I care a lot.
JOE: Give me my book.
MR. WHITE: You gonna put it away?
JOE: I'm gonna do whatever I wanna do with it.
MR. WHITE: Well, then, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to keep it.
MR. BLONDE: Joe, you want me to shoot him for you?
MR. WHITE: Shit, you shoot me in a dream, you better wake up and apologize.
NICE GUY EDDIE: Have you guys been listening to K- BILLY's super sounds of the seventies weekend?
MR. PINK: Yeah, it's fuckin great isn't it?
NICE GUY EDDIE: Can you believe the songs they been playin?
MR. PINK: No, I can't.  You know what I heard the other day?  "Heartbeat - It's Lovebeat," by little Tony DeFranco and the DeFranco Family. I haven't heard that since I was in fifth fuckin grade.
NICE GUY EDDIE: When I was coming down here, I was playin it.  And "The Night the Lights Went Out in Georgia" came on.  Now I ain't heard that song since it was big, but when it was big, I heard it a million- trillion times.  I'm listening to it this morning, and this was the first time I ever realized that the lady singing the song, was the one who killed Andy.
MR. BLUE: You didn't know Vicki Lawrence killed the guy?
NICE GUY EDDIE: I thought the cheatin wife shot Andy.
MR. BLONDE: They say it in the song.
NICE GUY EDDIE: I know, I heard it.  I musta zoned out whenever that part came on before.  I thought when she said that little sister stuff, she was talkin about her sister- in-law, the cheatin wife.
JOE: No, she did it.  She killed the cheatin wife, too.
MR. PINK: You know the part in "Gypsies, Tramps and Theives," when she says "Poppa woulda shot his if he knew what he'd done?"  I could never figure out what he did.
WAITRESS: Can I get anybody more coffee.
JOE: No, we're gonna be hittin it. I'll take care of the check.
WAITRESS: Here ya go.  Please pay at the register, if you wouldn't mind.
JOE: Sure thing.
WAITRESS: You guys have a wonderful day.
JOE: I'll take care of this, you guys leave the tip. (to Mr. White) And when I come back, I want my book back.
MR. WHITE: Sorry, it's my book now.
JOE: Blonde, shoot this piece of shit, will ya?
NICE GUY EDDIE: Okay, everybody cough up green for the little lady.
NICE GUY EDDIE: C'mon, throw in a buck.
MR. WHITE: Uh-uh.  I don't tip.
NICE GUY EDDIE: Whaddaya mean you don't tip?
MR. WHITE: I don't believe in it.
NICE GUY EDDIE: You don't believe in tipping?
MR. PINK: (laughing) I love this kid, he's a madman, this guy.
MR. BLONDE: Do you have any idea what these ladies make?  They make shit.
MR. WHITE: Don't give me that.  She don't make enough money, she can quit.
NICE GUY EDDIE: I don't even know a Jew who'd have the balls to say that.  So let's get this straight. You never ever tip?
MR. WHITE: I don't tip because society says I gotta.  I tip when somebody deserves a tip.  When somebody really puts forth an effort, they deserve a little something extra. But this tipping automatically, that shit's for the birds.  As far as I'm concerned, they're just doin their job.
MR. BLUE: Our girl was nice.
MR. WHITE: Our girl was okay.  She didn't do anything special.
MR. BLONDE: What's something special, take ya in the kitchen and suck your dick?
NICE GUY EDDIE: I'd go over twelve percent for that.
MR. WRITE: Look, I ordered coffee.  Now we've been here a long fuckin time, and she's only filled my cup three times.  When I order coffee,  I want it filled six times.
MR. BLONDE: What if she's too busy?
MR. WHITE: The words "too busy" shouldn't be in a waitress's vocabulary.
NICE GUY EDDIE: Excuse me, Mr. White, but the last thing you need is another cup of coffee.
MR. WHITE: These ladies aren't starvin to death.  They make minimum wage. When I worked for minimum wage, I wasn't lucky enough to have a job that society deemed tipworthy.
NICE GUY EDDIE: Ahh, now we're getting down to it. It's not just that he's a cheap bastard--
MR. ORANGE: --It is that too--
NICE GUY EDDIE: --It is that too.  But it's also he couldn't get a waiter job.  You talk like a pissed off dishwasher: "Fuck those cunts and their fucking tips."
MR. BLONDE: So you don't care that they're counting on your tip to live?
MR. WHITE: Do you know what this is?  It's the world's smallest violin, playing just for the waitresses.
MR. BLONDE: You don't have any idea what you're talking about.  These people bust their ass. This is a hard job.
MR. WHITE: So's working at McDonald's, but you don't feel the need to tip them.  They're servin ya food, you should tip em.  But no, society says tip these guys over here, but not those guys over there.  That's bullshit.
MR. ORANGE: They work harder than the kids at McDonald's.
MR. WHITE: Oh yeah, I don't see them cleaning fryers.
MR. BROWN: These people are taxed on the tips they make.  When you stiff 'em, you cost them money.
MR. BLONDE: Waitressing is the number one occupation for female non-college graduates in this country.  It's the one jab basically any woman can get, and make a living on. The reason is because of tips.
MR. WHITE: Fuck all that.
MR. WHITE: Hey, I'm very sorry that the government taxes their tips. That's fucked up.  But that ain't my fault.  it would appear that waitresses are just one of the many groups the government fucks in the ass on a regular basis. You show me a paper says the government shouldn't do that, I'll sign it.  Put it to a vote, I'll vote for it.  But what I won't do is play ball.  And this non- college bullshit you're telling me, I got two words for that: "Learn to fuckin type."  Cause if you're expecting me to help out with the rent, you're in for a big fuckin surprise.
MR. ORANGE: He's convinced me.  Give me my dollar back.
JOE: Okay ramblers, let's get to rambling.  Wait a minute, who didn't throw in?
MR. ORANGE: Mr. White.
JOE: (to Mr. Orange) Mr. White? (to Mr. White) Why?
MR. ORANGE: He don't tip.
JOE: (to Mr. Orange) He don't tip? (to Mr. White) You don't tip?  Why?
MR. ORANGE: He don't believe in it.
JOE: (to Mr. Orange) He don't believe in it? (to Mr. White) You don't believe in it?
MR. ORANGE: Nope.
JOE: (to Mr. Orange) Shut up! (to Mr. White) Cough up the buck, ya cheap bastard, I paid for your goddamn breakfast.
MR. WHITE: Because you paid for the breakfast, I'm gonna tip. Normally I wouldn't.
JOE: Whatever.  Just throw in your dollar, and let's move. (to Mr. Blonde) See what I'm dealing with here. Infants.  I'm fuckin dealin with infants.
SOMEBODY ELSE (OS): Just hold on buddy boy.
SOMEBODY (OS): I'm sorry.  I can't believe she killed me.  Who would've fuckin thought that?
MR. WHITE: Hey, just cancel that shit right now!  You're hurt.  You're hurt really fucking bad, but you ain't dying.
MR. ORANGE: (crying) All this blood is scaring the shit outta me.  I'm gonna die, I know it.
MR. WHITE: Oh excuse me, I didn't realize you had a degree in medicine.  Are you a doctor?  Are you a doctor? Answer me please, are you a doctor?
MR. ORANGE: No, I'm not!
MR. WRITE: Ahhhh, so you admit you don't know what you're talking about.  So if you're through giving me your amateur opinion, lie back and listen to the news.  I'm taking you back to the rendezvous, Joe's gonna get you a doctor, the doctor's gonna fix you up, and you're gonna be okay.  Now say it: you're gonna be okay.  Say it: you're gonna be okay!
MR. WHITE: Say-the-goddamn-words: you're gonna be okay!
MR. ORANGE: I'm okay.
MR. WHITE: (softly) Correct.
MR. WHITE: Just hold on buddy boy.  Hold on, and wait for Joe.  I can't do anything for you, but when Joe gets here, which should be anytime now, he'll be able to help you. We're just gonna sit here, and wait for Joe.  Who are we waiting for?
MR. ORANGE: Joe.
MR. WHITE: Bet your sweet ass we are.
MR. ORANGE: (yelling) Don't leave me!
MR. WHITE: I ain't going anywhere.  I'm right here.  I'm not gonna leave ya.
MR. ORANGE: Larry, I'm so scared, would you please hold me.
MR. WHITE: (whispering) Go ahead and be scared, you've been brave enough for one day.  I want you to just relax now. You're not gonna die, you're gonna be fine.  When Joe gets here, he'll make ya a hundred percent again.
MR. ORANGE: Look, I don't wanna be a fly in the ointment, but if help doesn't come soon, I gotta see a doctor. I don't give a fuck about jail, I just don't wanna die.
MR. WHITE: You're not gonna fucking die, all right?
MR. ORANGE: I wasn't born yesterday.  I'm hurt, and I'm hurt bad.
MR. WHITE: It's not good...
MR. ORANGE: Hey, bless your heart for what you're trying to do.  I was panicking for a moment, but I've got my senses back now.  The situation is, I'm shot in the belly.  And without medical attention, I'm gonna die.
MR. WHITE: I can' take you to a hospital.
MR. ORANGE: Fuck jail!  I don't give a shit about jail.  But I can't die.  You don't have to take me in.  Just drive me up to the front, drop me on the sidewalk.  I'll take care of myself.  I won't tell them anything.  I swear to fucking god, I won't tell 'em anything.  Look in my eyes, look right in my eyes. (Mr. White does) I-won't-tell-them-anything. You'll be safe.
MR. WHITE: Lie back down, and try to--
MR. ORANGE: I'm going to die!   I need a doctor!  I'm begging you, take me to a doctor.
MR. ORANGE: Take me to a doctor, take me to a doctor, please.
MR. PINK: Was that a fucking set-up or what?
MR. PINK: Oh fuck, Orange got tagged.
MR. WHITE: Gun shot.
MR. PINK: Oh that's just fucking great! Where's Brown?
MR. WHITE: Dead.
MR. PINK: Goddamn, goddamn!  How did he die?
MR. WHITE: How the fuck do you think?  The cops shot him.
MR. PINK: Oh this is bad, this is so bad. (referring to Mr. Orange) Is it bad?
MR. WHITE: As opposed to good?
MR. PINK: This is so fucked up.  Somebody fucked us big time.
MR. WHITE: You really think we were set up?
MR. PINK: You even doubt it?  I don't think we got set up, I know we got set up!  I mean really, seriously, where did all those cops come from, huh?  One minute they're not there, the next minute they're there.  I didn't hear any sirens.  The alarm went off, okay. Okay, when an alarm goes off, you got an average of four minutes response time.  Unless a patrol car is cruising that street, at that particular moment, you got four minutes before they can realistically respond.  In one minute there were seventeen blue boys out there.  All loaded for bear, all knowing exactly what the fuck they were doing, and they were all just there!  Remember that second wave that showed up in the cars? Those were the ones responding to the alarm.  but those other motherfuckers were already there, they were waiting for us. (pause) You haven't thought about this?
MR. WHITE: I haven't had a chance to think. First I was just trying to get the fuck outta there.  And after we got away, I've just been dealin with him.
MR. PINK: Well, you better start thinking about it.  Cause I, sure as fuck, am thinking about it.  In fact, that's all I'm thinking about.  I came this close to just driving off.  Whoever set us up, knows about this place.  There could've been cops sitting here waiting for me.  For all we know, there's cops, driving fast, on their way here now.
MR. WHITE: Let's go in the other room...
MR. PINK (OS): What the fuck am I doing here?  I felt funny about this job right off.  As soon as I felt it I should said "No thank you", and walked.  But I never fucking listen.  Every time I ever got burned buying weed, I always knew the guy wasn't right.  I just felt it.  But I wanted to believe him. If he's not lyin to me, and it really is Thai stick, then whoa baby.  But it's never Thai stick. and I always said if I felt that way about a job, I'd walk.  And I did, and I didn't, because of fuckin money!
MR. WHITE: What's done is done, I need you cool.  Are you cool?
MR. PINK: I'm cool.
MR. WHITE: Splash some water on your face. Take a breather.
MR. WHITE: I'm gonna get me my smokes.
MR. WHITE: Want a smoke?
MR. PINK: Why not?
MR. WHITE: Okay, let's go through what happened.  We're in the place, everything's going fine.  Then the alarm gets tripped.  I turn around and all these cops are outside. You're right, it was like, bam!  I blink my eyes are they're there. Everybody starts going apeshit. Then Mr. Blonde starts shootin all the--
MR. PINK: --That's not correct.
MR. WHITE: What's wrong with it?
MR. PINK: The cops didn't show up after the alarm went off.  They didn't show till after Mr. Blonde started shooting everyone.
MR. WHITE: As soon as I heard the alarm, I saw the cops.
MR. PINK: I'm telling ya, it wasn't that soon.  They didn't let their presence be known until after Mr. Blonde went off.  I'm not sayin they weren't there, I'm sayin they were there.  But they didn't move in till Mr. Blonde became a madman.  That's how I know we were set up.  You can see that, can't you, Mr. White?
MR. WHITE: Look, enough of this "Mr White" shit--
MR. PINK: --Don't tell me your name, I don't want to know!  I sure as hell ain't gonna tell ya mine.
MR. WHITE: You're right, this is bad. (pause) How did you get out?
MR. PINK: Shot my way out.  Everybody was shooting, so I just blasted my way outta there.
MR. PINK: Get outta the car!  Get the fuck outta the car!
MR. PINK: Open the fucking door!
MR. PINK: Tagged a couple of cops.  Did you kill anybody?
MR. WHITE: A few cops.
MR. PINK: No real people?
MR. WHITE: Uh-uh, just cops.
MR. PINK: Could you believe Mr. Blonde?
MR. WHITE: That was one of the most insane fucking things I've ever seen. Why the fuck would Joe hire somebody like that?
MR. PINK: I don't wanna kill anybody.  But if I gotta get out that door, and you're standing in my way, one way of the other, you're gettin outta my way.
MR. WHITE: That's the way I look at it.  A choice between doin ten years, and takin out some stupid motherfucker, ain't no choice at all.  But I ain't no madman either.  What the fuck was Joe thinkin?  You can't work with a guy like that.  That mother- fucker's unstable.  What do you think?  Do you think he panicked, or ya think he's just trigger- happy?
MR. PINK: I think he's a sick fuckin maniac! We're awful goddamn lucky he didn't tag us, when he shot up the place.  I came this fucking close-- (hold up two fingers and makes a tiny space between them) --to taking his ass out myself. Everybody panics.  When things get tense, everybody panics. Everybody.  I don't care what your name is, you can't help it.  It's human nature.  But ya panic on the inside. Ya panic in your head.  Ya give yourself a couple a seconds of panic, then you get a grip and deal with the situation.  What you don't do, is shoot up the place and kill everybody.
MR. WHITE: What you're supposed to do is act like a fuckin professional.  A psychopath is not a professional. You can't work with a psychopath, 'cause ya don't know what those sick assholes are gonna do next. I mean, Jesus Christ, how old do you think that black girl was? Twenty, maybe twenty-one?
MR. PINK: Did ya see what happened to anybody else?
MR. WHITE: Me and Mr. Orange jumped in the car and Mr. Brown floored it. After that, I don't know what went down.
MR. PINK: At that point it became every man for himself.  As far as Mr. Blonde or Mr. Blue are concerned, I ain't got the foggiest.  Once I got out, I never looked back.
MR. WHITE: What do you think?
MR. PINK: What do I think?  I think the cops caught them, or killed 'em.
MR. WHITE: Not even a chance they punched through?  You found a hole.
MR. PINK: Yeah, and that was a fucking miracle.  But if they did get away, where the fuck are they?
MR. WHITE: You don't think it's possible, one of them got ahold of the diamonds and pulled a--
MR. PINK: Nope.
MR. WHITE: How can you be so sure?
MR. PINK: I got the diamonds.
MR. WHITE: Where?
MR. PINK: I got 'em, all right?
MR. WHITE: Where?  Are they out in the car?
MR. PINK: No, they're not in the car.  No, I don't have them on me.  Ya wanna go with me and get 'em?  Yes, we can go right now.  But first listen to what I'm telling you. We were fuckin set up!  Somebody is in league with the cops.  We got a Judas in our midst.  And I'm thinkin we should have our fuckin heads examined for waiting around here.
MR. WHITE: That was the plan, we meet here.
MR. PINK: Then where is everybody?  I say the plan became null and void once we found out we got a rat in the house.  We ain't got the slightest fuckin idea what happened to Mr. Blonde or Mr. Blue.  They could both be dead or arrested.  They could be sweatin 'em, down at the station house right now.  Yeah they don't know the names, but they can sing about this place. I mean, that could be happening right now.  As we speak, the cops could be in their cars, drivin here this minute.
MR. WHITE: I swear to god I'm fuckin jinxed.
MR. PINK: What?
MR. WHITE: Two jobs back, it was a four man job, we discovered one of the team was an undercover cop.
MR. PINK: No shit?
MR. WHITE: Thank god, we discovered in time. We hadda forget the whole fuckin thing.  Just walked away from it.
MR. PINK: So who's the rat this time?  Mr. Blue?  Mr. Blonde?  Joe?  It's Joe's show, he set this whole thing up.  Maybe he set it up to set it up.
MR. WHITE: I don't buy it.  Me and Joe go back a long time.  I can tell ya straight up, Joe definitely didn't have anything to do with this bullshit.
MR. PINK: Oh, you and Joe go back a long time.  I known Joe since I was a kid.  But me saying Joe definitely couldn't have done it is ridiculous.  I can say I definitely didn't do it, cause I know what I did or didn't do.  But I can't definitely say that about anybody else, 'cause I don't definitely know.  For all I know, you're the rat.
MR. WHITE: For all I know, you're the rat.
MR. PINK: Now you're using your head. For all we know, he's the rat.
MR. WHITE: Jesus Christ!
MR. PINK: Is he dead?
MR. PINK: So, is he dead or what?
MR. WHITE: He ain't dead.
MR. PINK: So what is it?
MR. WHITE: I think he's just passed out.
MR. PINK: He scared the fuckin shit outta me.  I thought he was dead fer sure.
MR. WHITE: He will be dead fer sure, if we don't get him to a hospital.
MR. PINK: We can't take him to a hospital.
MR. WHITE: Without medical attention, this man won't live through the night. That bullet in his belly is my fault.  Now while that might not mean jack shit to you, it means a helluva lot to me.  And I'm not gonna just sit around and watch him die.
MR. PINK: Well, first things first, staying here's goofy.  We gotta book up.
MR. WHITE: So what do you suggest, we go to a hotel?  We got a guy who's shot in the belly, he can't walk, he bleeds like a stuck pig, and when he's awake, he screams in pain.
MR. PINK: You gotta idea, spit it out.
MR. WHITE: Joe could help him.  If we can get in touch with Joe, Joe could get him to a doctor, Joe could get a doctor to come and see him.
MR. PINK (OS): Assuming we can trust Joe, how we gonna get in touch with him?  He's supposed to be here, but he ain't, which is making me nervous about being here.  Even if Joe is on the up and up, he's probably not gonna be that happy with us. Joe planned a robbery, but he's got a blood bath on his hands now. Dead cops, dead robbers, dead civilians...Jesus Christ!  I tend to doubt he's gonna have a lot of sympathy for our plight.  If I was him, I'd try and put as much distance between me and this mess an humanly possible.
MR. WHITE: Before you got here, Mr. Orange was askin me to take him to a hospital.  Now I don't like turning him over to the cops, but if we don't, he's dead.  He begged me to do it.  I told him to hold off till Joe got here.
MR. PINK (OS): Well Joe ain't gettin here.  We're on our own.  Now, I don't know a goddamn body who can help him, so if you know somebody, call 'em.
MR. WHITE: I don't know anybody.
MR. PINK (OS): Well, I guess we drop him off at the hospital.  Since he don't know nothin about us, I say it's his decision.
MR. WHITE (OS): Well, he knows a little about me.
MR. PINK: You didn't tell him your name, did ya?
MR. WHITE (OS): I told him my first name, and where I'm from.
MR. PINK: Why!
MR. WHITE (OS): I told him where I was from a few days ago.  It was just a casual conversation.
MR. PINK: And what was tellin him your name when you weren't supposed to?
MR. WHITE (OS): He asked.
MR. WHITE (OS): We had just gotten away from the cops.  He just got shot.  It was my fuckin fault he got shot.  He's a fuckin bloody mess - he's screaming.  I swear to god, I thought we was gonna die right then and there.  I'm tryin to comfort him, telling him not to worry, he's gonna be okay, I'm gonna take care of him.  And he asked me what my name was.  I mean, the man was dyin in my arms. What the fuck was I supposed to tell him, "Sorry, I can't give out that information, it's against the rules.  I don't trust you enough."?  Maybe I shoulda, but I couldn't.
MR. PINK: Oh, I don't doubt is was quite beautiful--
MR. WHITE (OS): Don't fuckin patronize me.
MR. PINK: One question: Do they have a sheet on you, where you told him you're from?
MR. WHITE (OS): Of course.
MR. PINK: Well that's that, then.  I mean, I was worried about mug shot possibilities already.  But now he knows: (a) what you look like, (b) what your first name is, (i) where you're from and (d) what your specialty is. They ain't gonna hafta show him a helluva lot of pictures for him to pick you out.  That's it right, you didn't tell him anything else that could narrow down the selection?
MR. WHITE (OS): If I have to tell you again to back off, me an you are gonna go round and round.
MR. PINK: We ain't taking him to a hospital.
MR. WHITE (OS): If we don't, he'll die.
MR. PINK: And I'm very sad about that.  But some fellas are lucky, and some ain't.
MR. WHITE (OS): That fuckin did it!
MR. WHITE: You little motherfucker!
MR. PINK: Ya wanna fuck with me?!  You wanna fuck with me?!  I'll show you who you're fuckin with!
MR. WHITE: You wanna shoot me, you little piece of shit?  Take a shot!
MR. PINK: Fuck you, White!  I didn't create this situation,  I'm just dealin with it.  You're acting like a first-year fuckin thief.  I'm actin like a professional.  They get him, they can get you, they get you, they get closer to me, and that can't happen.  And you, you motherfucker, are looking at me like it's my fault.  I didn't tell him my name.  I didn't tell him where I was from.  I didn't tell him what I knew better than to tell him.  Fuck, fifteen minutes ago, you almost told me your name.  You, buddy, are stuck in a situation you created.  So if you wanna throw bad looks somewhere, throw 'em at a mirror.
MR. PINK: So if you wanna shoot somebody, put that gun in your mouth and shoot yourself.
VOICE (OS): You kids don't play so rough. Somebody's gonna start crying.
MR. PINK: Mr. Blonde!  You okay?  We thought you might've gotten caught.  What happened?
MR. PINK: Really, how did you get away?
MR. PINK: You saw what happened to me, I found a hole and booked.
MR. PINK: Where's Mr. Blue?
MR. PINK: We were hopin you two would be together.
MR. PINK: That was the big question we had, what happened to Mr. Blue and you?
MR. PINK: We were worried the cops got ya.
MR. PINK: He got it in the belly.  He's still alive, but won't be for long.
MR. WHITE: Enough!  You better start talkin to us, asshole, cause we got shit we need to talk about.  We're already freaked out, we need you actin freaky like we need a fuckin bag on our hip.
MR. BLONDE: So, talk.
MR. WHITE: We think we got a rat in the house.
MR. PINK: I guarantee we got a rat in the house.
MR. BLONDE: What would ever make you think that?
MR. WHITE: Is that supposed to be funny?
MR. PINK: We don't think this place is safe.
MR. WHITE: This place just ain't secure anymore.  We're leaving, and you should go with us.
MR. BLONDE: Nobody's going anywhere.
MR. WHITE: (to Mr. Pink) Piss on this turd, we're outta here.
MR. BLONDE: Don't take another step, Mr. White.
MR. WHITE: Fuck you, maniac!  It's your fuckin fault we're in so much trouble.
MR. BLONDE: (referring to Mr. White) What's this guy's problem?
MR. WHITE: What's my problem?  Yeah, I gotta problem.  I gotta big problem with any trigger-happy madman who almost gets me shot!
MR. BLONDE: What're you talkin about?
MR. WHITE: That fuckin shooting spree in the store.
MR. BLONDE: Fuck 'em, they set off the alarm, they deserve what they got.
MR. WHITE: You almost killed me, asshole!  If I had any idea what type of guy you were, I never would've agreed to work with you.
MR. BLONDE: You gonna back all day, little doggie, or are you gonna bite?
MR. WHITE: What was that?  I'm sorry, I didn't catch it.  Would you repeat it?
MR. BLONDE: (slowly) I said: "Are you gonna bark all day, dog, or are you gonna bite."
MR. PINK: Both of you two assholes knock it the fuck off and calm down!
MR. WHITE: (to Mr. Blonde) So you wanna git bit, huh?
MR. PINK: Cut the bullshit, we ain't on a fuckin playground! (pause) I don't believe this shit, both of you got ten years on me, and I'm the only one actin like a professional.  You guys act like a bunch of fuckin niggers.  You ever work a job with a bunch of niggers?  They're just like you two, always fightin, always sayin they're gonna kill one another.
MR. WHITE: (to Mr. Pink) You said yourself, you thought about takin him out.
MR. PINK: Then.  That time has passed. Right now, Mr. Blonde is the only one I completely trust.  He's too fuckin homicidal to be workin with the cops.
MR. WHITE: You takin his side?
MR. PINK: Fuck sides!  What we need is a little solidarity here. Somebody's stickin a red hot poker up our asses and we gotta find out whose hand's on the handle.  Now I know I'm no piece of shit... (referring to Mr. White) And I'm pretty sure you're a good boy... (referring to Mr. Blonde) And I'm fuckin positive you're on the level.  So let's figure out who's the bad guy.
MR. BLONDE: Well, that was sure exciting. (to Mr. White) You're a big Lee Marvin fan, aren't you?  Me too.  I don't know about the rest of you fellas, but my heart's beatin fast. (pause for a beat) Okay you guys, follow me.
MR. WHITE: Follow you where?
MR. BLONDE: Down to my car.
MR. WHITE: Why?
MR. BLONDE: It's a surprise.
MR. PINK: We still gotta get out of here.
MR. BLONDE: We're gonna sit here and wait.
MR. WHITE: For what, the cops?
MR. BLONDE: Nice Guy Eddie.
MR. PINK: Nice Guy Eddie?  What makes you think Nice Guy's anywhere but on a plane half way to Costa Rica?
MR. BLONDE: Cause I just talked to him.  He's on his way down here, and nobody's going anywhere till be gets here.
MR. WHITE: You talked to Nice Guy Eddie?  Why the fuck didn't you say that in the first place?
MR. BLONDE: You didn't ask.
MR. WHITE: Hardy-fuckin-har.  What did he say?
MR. BLONDE: Stay put.  Okay, fellas, take a look at the little surprise I brought you.
MR. BLONDE: So while we're waitin for Nice Guy Eddie, what say we have a little fun finding out who the rat is.
JOE: (into phone) Sid, I'm tellin you don't worry about it.  You had a bad couple of months, it happens. (pause) Sid, Sid, Sid...Stop, you're embarrassing me.  I don't need to be told what I already know.  When you have bad months, you do what every business man in the worlds does, I don't care if he's Donald Trump or Irving the tailor. Ya ride it out.
JOE: Come in.
TEDDY: Vic Vega's outside.
JOE: Tell him to come in.
JOE: (into phone) Sid, a friend of mine's here.  I gotta go. (pause) Good enough, bye.
JOE: How's freedom kid, pretty fuckin good, ain't it?
VIC: It's a change.
JOE: Ain't that a sad truth.  Remy Martin?
VIC: Sure.
JOE: Take a seat.
JOE: (while he pours the drink) Who's your parole officer?
VIC: A guy named Koons.  Craig Koons.
JOE: How is he?
VIC: Fuckin asshole, won't let me leave the halfway house.
JOE: Never ceases to amaze me.  Fuckin jungle bunny goes out there, slits some old woman's throat for twenty-five cents.  Fuckin nigger gets Doris Day as a parole officer.  But a good fella like you gets stuck with a ball-bustin prick.
VIC: I just want you to know, Joe, how much I appreciate your care packages on the inside.
JOE: What the hell did you expect me to do?  Just forget about you?
VIC: I just wanted you to know, they meant a lot.
JOE: It's the least I could do Vic.  I wish I coulda done more. (Joe flashes a side grin at Vic) Vic. Toothpick Vic.  Tell me a story?  What're your plans?
VIC: Well, what I wanna do is go back to work.  But I got this Koons prick deep up my ass.  He won't let me leave the halfway house till I get some piece of shit job. My plans have always been to be part of the team again.
JOE: Come in.
EDDIE: (to Vic) I see ya sittin here, but I don't believe it.
EDDIE: How ya doin, Toothpick?
VIC: Fine, now.
EDDIE: I'm sorry man, I shoulda picked you up personally at the pen. This whole week's just been crazy. I've had my head up my ass the entire time.
VIC: Funny you should mention it. That's what your father and I been talkin about.
EDDIE: That I should've picked you up?
VIC: No.  That your head's been up your ass.  I walk through the door and Joe says "Vic, you're back, thank god.  Finally somebody who knows what the fuck he's doing.  Vic, Vic, Vic, Eddie, my son, is a fuck up."  And I say "Well, Joe, I coulda told you that."  "I'm ruined!  He's ruining me!  My son, I love him, but he's taking my business and flushing it down the fuckin toilet!" (to Joe) I'm not tellin tales out of school.  You tell 'im Joe. Tell 'im yourself.
JOE: Eddie, I hate like hell for you to hear it this way.  But when Vic asked me how's business, well, you don't lie to a man who's just done four years in the slammer for ya.
EDDIE: Oh really, is that a fact?
JOE: (yelling) Okay, okay, enough, enough! Playtime's over!  You wanna roll around on the floor, do it in Eddie's office, not mine!
EDDIE: Daddy, did ya see that?
JOE: What?
EDDIE: Guy got me on the ground, tried to fuck me.
VIC: You fuckin wish.
EDDIE: You tried to fuck me in my father's office, you sick bastard. Look, Vic, whatever you wanna do in the privacy of your own home, go do it.  But don't try to fuck me.  I don't think of you that way.  I mean, I like you a lot--
VIC: Eddie, if I was a pirate, I wouldn't throw you to the crew.
EDDIE: No, you'd keep me for yourself. Four years fuckin punks in the ass made you appreciate prime rib when you get it.
VIC: I might break you, Nice Guy, but I'd make you my dog's bitch. You'd be suckin the dick and going down on a mangy T-bone hound.
EDDIE: Now ain't that a sad sight, daddy, walks into jail a white man, walks out talkin like a nigger.  It's all that black semen been shootin up his butt.  It's backed up into his brain and comes out of his mouth.
JOE: Are you two finished?  We were talkin about some serious shit when you came in Eddie.  We got a big problem we're tryin to solve. Now Eddie, would you like to sit down and help us solve it, or do you two wanna piss fart around?
JOE: Now Vic was tellin me, he's got a parole problem.
EDDIE: Really?  Who's your P.O.?
VIC: Craig Koons.
EDDIE: Koons?  Oh shit, I hear he's a motherfucker.
VIC: He is a motherfucker.  He won't let me leave the halfway house till I get some piece of shit job.
EDDIE: You're coming back to work for us, right?
VIC: I wanna.  But I gotta show this asshole I got an honest-to- goodness job before he'll let me move out on my own.  I can't work for you guys and be worried about gettin back before ten o'clock curfew.
JOE: (to Eddie) We can work this out, can't we?
EDDIE: This isn't all that bad.  We can give you a lot of legitimate jobs. Put you on the rotation at Long Beach as a dock worker.
VIC: I don't wanna lift crates.
EDDIE: You don't hafta lift shit.  You don't really work there.  But as far as the records are concerned, you do.  I call up Matthews, the foreman, tell him he's got a new guy.  You're on the schedule.  You got a timecard, it's clocked in and out for you everyday, and you get a pay check at the end of the week.  And ya know dock workers don't do too bad.  So you can move into a halfway decent place without Koons thinkin "what the fuck."  And if Koons ever wants to make a surprise visit, you're gone that day.  That day we sent you to Tustin.  We gotta bunch of shit you needed to unload there. You're at the Taft airstrip pickin up a bunch of shit and bringing it back.  Part of your jab is goin different places - and we got places all over the place.
JOE: (to Vic) Didn't I tell ya not to worry? (to Eddie) Vic was worried.
EDDIE: Me and you'll drive down to Long Beach tomorrow.  I'll introduce you to Matthews, tell him what's going on.
VIC: That's great, guy, thanks a bunch. (pause) When do you think you'll need me for real work?
JOE: Well, it's kinda a strange time right now.  Things are kinda--
EDDIE: --Nuts.  We got a big meeting in Vegas coming up.  And we're kinda just gettin ready for that right now.
JOE: Let Nice Guy set you up at Long Beach.  Give ya some cash, get that Koons fuck off your back, and we'll be talking to ya.
EDDIE: Daddy, I got an idea.  Now just hear it out.  I know you don't like to use any of the boys on these jobs, but technically, Vic ain't one of the boys.  He's been gone for four years.  He ain't on no one's list.  Ya know he can handle himself, ya know you can trust him.
JOE: How would you feel about pullin a heist with about five other guys?
VIC: What's the exposure like?
JOE: Two minutes, tops.  It's a tough two minutes.  It's a hold up, daylight, during business hours, dealing with a crowd.  But you have the fellas to deal with the crowd.  It's a jewelry store. They're getting a big shipment of South African diamonds on a certain day.  They're like a way station.  It's gonna get picked up the next day and sent to Hamburg. When you walk through the door, you'll know right where to go for the rich stones. The fellas are good, me and Nice Guy picked em.  Nobody knows anybody else.  Nobody's connected. I don't use connected guys for this shit.
VIC: What's the cut?
JOE: Juicy, man, real juicy.
EDDIE: (into phone) Hey Dov, we got a major situation here. (pause) I know you know that.  I gotta talk with daddy and find out what he wants done.
EDDIE: (into phone) All I know is what Vic told me. He said the place turned into a fuckin bullet festival.  He took a cop as hostage, just to get the fuck out of there.
EDDIE: (into phone) Do I sound like I'm jokin?  He's fuckin driving around with the cop in his trunk. (pause) I don't know who did that.  I don't know who has the loot, if anybody has the loot.  Who's dead, who's alive, who's caught, who's not... I will know, I'm practically there.  But what do I tell these guys about daddy? (pause) You sure that's what he said? (pause) Okay, that's what I'll tell em.
EDDIE: (to himself) Fucking assholes.
EDDIE: What in Sam Hill is goin on?
MR. PINK                      MR. WHITE: Hey, Nice Guy, we got a     You're askin what's goin cop.                        on?  Where the fuck is Joe?
EDDIE: Holy shit, this guy's all fucked up!
MR. WHITE: No shit, he's gonna fuckin die on us if we don't get him taken care of.
MR. PINK: We were set up, the cops were waiting for us.
EDDIE: What?  Nobody set anybody up.
MR. PINK: The cops were there waitin for us!
EDDIE: Bullshit.
MR. PINK: Hey, fuck you man, you weren't there, we were.  And I'm tellin ya, the cops had that store staked out.
EDDIE: Okay, Mr. Detective, who did it?
MR. PINK: What the fuck d'you think we've been askin each other?
EDDIE: And what are your answers?  Was it me?  You think I set you up?
MR. PINK: I don't know, but somebody did.
EDDIE: Nobody did.  You assholes turn the jewelry store into a wild west show, and you wonder why cops show up.
MR. BLONDE: Where's Joseph?
EDDIE: I ain't talked to him.  I talked to Dov.  Dov said he's comin out here, and he's fucking pissed.
MR. PINK: (to Mr. White) I told ya he'd be pissed.
MR. WHITE: (pointing to Mr. Orange) What are you gonna do about him?
EDDIE: Jesus Christ, give me a fuckin chance to breathe.  I got a few questions of my own, ya know.
MR. WHITE: You ain't dying, he is.
EDDIE: I'll call somebody.
MR. WHITE: Who?
EDDIE: A snake charmer, what the fuck d'you think.  I'll call a doctor, take care of him, fix 'm right up. No, where's Mr. Brown and Mr. Blue?
MR. PINK: Brown's dead, we don't know about Blue.
EDDIE: Nobody saw what happened to Mr. Blue?
MR. BLONDE: Well, he's either dead or he's alive or the cops got him or they don't.
EDDIE (OS): I take it this is the bastard you told me about. (referring to the cop) Why the hell are you beating on him?
MR. PINK: So he'll tell us who the fuck set us up.
EDDIE: Would you stop it with that shit! You beat on this prick enough, he'll tell ya he started the Chicago fire.  That don't necessarily make it so.  Okay, first things fucking last, where's the shit?  Please tell me somebody brought something with them.
MR. PINK: I got a bag.  I stashed it till I could be sure this place wasn't a police station.
EDDIE: Well, let's go get it.  We also gotta get rid of all those cars. It looks like Sam's hot car lot outside. (pointing to Mr. Blonde) You stay here and babysit Orange and the cop. (referring to Mr. Pink and Mr. White) You two take a car each, I'll follow ya.  You ditch it, I'll pick you up, then we'll pick up the stones.  And while I'm following you, I'll arrange for some sort of a doctor for our friend.
MR. WHITE: We can't leave these guys with him.
EDDIE: Why not?
MR. WHITE: Because this guy's a fucking psycho.  And if you think Joe's pissed at us, that ain't nothing compared to how pissed off I am at him, for puttin me in the same room as this bastard.
MR. BLONDE: (to Eddie) You see what I been puttin up with?  As soon as I walk through the door I'm hit with this shit. I tell 'm what you told me about us stayin put and Mr. White whips out his gun, sticks it in my face, and starts screaming "You motherfucker, I'm gonna blow you away, blah, blah, blah."
MR. WHITE: He's the reason the place turned into a shooting gallery. (to Mr. Pink) What are you, a silent partner? Fuckin tell him.
MR. PINK: He seems all right now, but he went crazy in the store.
MR. WHITE: This is what he was doin.
MR. BLONDE: I told 'em not to touch the alarm. They touched it.  I blew 'em full of holes.  If they hadn't done what I told 'em not it, they'd still be alive.
MR. WHITE: That's your excuse for going on a kill crazy rampage?
MR. BLONDE: I don't like alarms.
EDDIE: What does it matter who stays with the cop?  We ain't lettin him go. Not after he's seen everybody. You should've never took him outta your trunk in the first place.
MR. PINK: We were trying to find out what he knew about the set up.
EDDIE: There is no fuckin set up! (Eddie takes charge) Look, this is the news.  Blondie, you stay here and take care of them two.  White and Pink come with me, 'cuz if Joe gets here and sees all those fucking cars parked out front, he's going to be as mad at me as he is at you.
MR. BLONDE: Alone at last.
MR. BLONDE (OS): Now where were we?
COP: I told you I don't know anything about any fucking set up.  I've only been on the force eight months, nobody tells me anything! I don't know anything!  You can torture me if you want--
MR. BLONDE (OS): --Thanks, don't mind if I do.
COP: Your boss even said there wasn't a set up.
MR. BLONDE (OS): First off, I don't have a boss. Are you clear about that?
MR. BLONDE (OS): I asked you a question.  Are you clear about that?
COP: Yes.
MR. BLONDE (OS): Now I'm not gonna bullshit you.  I don't really care about what you know or don't know.  I'm gonna torture you for awhile regardless. Not to get information, but because torturing a cop amuses me. There's nothing you can say, there's nothing you can do. Except pray for death.
MR. BLONDE: Let's see what's on K-BILLY'S "super sounds of the seventies" weekend.
MR. BLONDE: "Clowns to the left of me, Jokers to the right.  Here I am, stuck in the middle with you."
MR. ORANGE: (feebly) What's your name?
COP: Jeffrey.
MR. ORANGE: Jeffrey what?
COP: Jeffrey Andrews.
MR. ORANGE: Listen to me, Jeffrey Andrews.  I'm a cop.
JEFFREY: I know.
MR. ORANGE: (surprised) You do?
JEFFREY: Your name's Freddy something.
MR. ORANGE: Freddy Newendyke.
JEFFREY: Frankie Ferchetti introduced us once, about five months ago.
MR. ORANGE: Shit.  I don't remember that at all.
JEFFREY: I do. (pause) How do I look?
MR. ORANGE: I don't know what to tell you Jeffrey.
JEFFREY: That fucking bastard!  That fucking sick fucking bastard!
MR. ORANGE: Jeffrey, I need you to hold on. There's officers positioned and waiting to move in a block away.
JEFFREY: (screaming) What the fuck are they waiting for?  That motherfucker cut off my ear!  He slashed my face!  I'm deformed!
MR. ORANGE: And I'm dying.  They don't know that.  All they know is they're not to make a move until Joe Cabot shows up.  I was sent undercover to get Cabot.  You heard 'em, they said he's on his way.  Don't pussy out on me now, Jeffrey.  We're just gonna sit here and bleed until Joe Cabot sticks his fuckin head through that door.
FREDDY (O.S.): Say "hello" to a motherfucker who's inside.  Cabot's doing a job and take a big fat guess who he wants on the team?
HOLDAWAY: This better not be some Freddy joke.
FREDDY: It ain't no joke, I'm in there. I'm up his ass.
HOLDAWAY: Congratulations.
FREDDY (O.S.): Nice Guy Eddie tells me Joe wants to meet me.  He says I should just hang around my apartment and wait for a phone call.  Well after waiting three goddamn days by the fuckin phone, he calls me last night and says Joe's ready, and he'll pick me up in fifteen minutes.
HOLDAWAY: Woo all picked you up?
FREDDY: Nice Guy.  When we got to the bar...
HOLDAWAY: ...What bar?
FREDDY: The Boots and Socks in Gardena. When we got there, I met Joe and a guy named Mr. White.  It's a phony name.  My name's Mr. Orange.
HOLDAWAY: You ever seen this motherfucker before?
FREDDY: Who, Mr. White?
HOLDAWAY: Yeah.
FREDDY: No, he ain't familiar.  He ain't one of Cabot's soldiers either. He's gotta be from outta town. But Joe knows him real well.
HOLDAWAY: How can you tell?
FREDDY: The way they talk to each other. You can tell they're buddies.
HOLDAWAY: Did the two of you talk?
FREDDY: Me and Mr. White?
HOLDAWAY: Yeah.
FREDDY: A little.
HOLDAWAY: What about?
FREDDY: The Brewers.
HOLDAWAY: The Milwaukee Brewers?
FREDDY: Yeah.  They had just won the night before, and he made a killing off 'em.
HOLDAWAY: Well, if this crook's a Brewers fan, his ass has gotta be from Wisconsin.  And I'll bet you everything from a diddle-eyed Joe to a damned-if-I-know, that in Milwaukee they got a sheet on this Mr. White motherfucker's ass.  I want you to go through the mugs of guys from old Milwaukee with a history of armed robbery, and put a name to that face.
HOLDAWAY: (with his mouth full) What kinds questions did Cabot ask?
FREDDY: Where I was from, who I knew, how I knew Nice Guy, had I done time, shit like that.
FREDDY: He asked me if I ever done armed robbery before.  I read him my credits.  I robbed a few gas and sips, sold some weed, told him recently I held the shotgun while me and another guy pulled down a poker game in Portland.
HOLDAWAY (O.S.): Didja use the commode story?
FREDDY: Fuckin-A.  I tell it real good, too.
FREDDY: What's this?
HOLDAWAY: It's a scene.  Memorize it.
FREDDY: What?
HOLDAWAY: A undercover cop has got to be Marlon Brando.  To do this job you got to be a great actor.  You got to be naturalistic.  You got to be naturalistic as hell.  If you ain't a great actor you're a bad actor, and bad acting is bull shit in this job.
FREDDY: (referring to the papers) But what is this?
HOLDAWAY: It's a amusing anecdote about a drug deal.
FREDDY: What?
HOLDAWAY: Something funny that happened to you while you were doing a job.
FREDDY: I gotta memorize all this shit?
HOLDAWAY: It's like a joke.  You remember what's important, and the rest you make your own.  The only way to make it your own is to keep sayin it, and sayin it, and sayin it, and sayin it, and sayin it.
FREDDY: I can do that.
HOLDAWAY: The things you gotta remember are the details.  It's the details that sell your story.  Now this story takes place in this men's room.  So you gotta know the details about this men's room. You gotta know they got a blower instead of a towel to dry your hands.  You gotta know the stalls ain't got no doors.  You gotta know whether they got liquid or powdered soap, whether they got hot water or not, 'cause if you do your job when you tell your story, everybody should believe it.  And if you tell your story to somebody who's actually taken a piss in this men's room, and you get one detail they remember right, they'll swear by you.
FREDDY: ...this was during the Los Angeles marijuana drought of '86.  I still had a connection.  Which was insane, 'cause you couldn't get weed anyfuckinwhere then.  Anyway, I had a connection with this hippie chick up in Santa Cruz. All and my friends knew it.  And they'd give me a call and say, "Hey, Freddy, you buyin some, you think you could buy me some too?" They knew I smoked, so they'd ask me to buy a little for them when I was buyin.  But it got to be everytime I bought some weed, I was buyin for four or five different people.  Finally I said, "Fuck this shit."  I'm makin this bitch rich.  She didn't have to do jack shit, she never even had to meet these people.  I was fuckin doin all the work.  So I got together with her and told her, "Hey, I'm sick of this shit.  I'm comin through for everybody, and nobody's comin through for me. So, either I'm gonna tell all my friends to find their own source, or you give me a bunch of weed, I'll sell it to them, give you the money, minus ten percent, and I get my pot for free."  So, I did if for awhile...
FREDDY: ...but then that got to be a pain in the ass.  People called me on the phone all the fuckin time.  I couldn't rent a fuckin tape without six phone calls interrupting me.  "Hey, Freddy, when's the next time you're gettin some?"  "Motherfucker, I'm tryin to watch 'Lost Boys'-- when I have some, I'll let you know."  And then these rinky-dink pot heads come by--there's my friends and everything, but still.  I got all my shit laid out in sixty dollar bags.  Well, they don't want sixty dollars worth.  They want ten dollars worth.  Breaking it up is a major fuckin pain in the ass.  I don't even know how much ten dollars worth is.  "Well, fuck, man, I don't want that much around.  If I have that much around I'll smoke it."  "Hey, if you guys can't control your smokin, that's not my problem. You motherfuckers been smokin for five years, be a adult about it." Finally I just told my connection, count me out.  But as it turns out, I'm the best guy she had, and she depended alot on my business. But I was still sick to death of it.  And she's trying to talk me into not quitin. Now this was a very weird situation, 'cause I don't know if you remember back in '86, there was a major fuckin drought. Nobody and anything.  People were livin on resin and smokin the wood in their pipes for months.  And this chick had a bunch, and was beggin me to sell it.  So I told her I wasn't gonna be Joe the Pot Man anymore.  But I would take a little bit and sell it to my close, close, close friends.  She agreed to that, and said we'd keep the same arrangement as before, ten percent and free pot for me, as long as I helped her out that weekend.  She had a brick of weed she was sellin, and she didn't want to go to the buy alone...
FREDDY: ...Her brother usually goes with her, but he's in county unexpectedly.
MR. WHITE: What for?
FREDDY: Traffic tickets gone to warrant. They stopped him for something, found the warrants on 'im, took 'im to jail.  She doesn't want to walk around alone with all that weed.  Well, I don't wanna do this, I have a bad feeling about it, but she keeps askin me, keeps askin me, finally I said okay 'cause I'm sick of listening to it.  Well, we're picking this guy up at the train station.
JOE: You're picking the buyer up at the train station?  You're carrying the weed on you?
FREDDY: Yeah, the guy needed it right away.  Don't ask me why.  So we get to the train station, and we're waitin for the guy.  Now I'm carrying the weed in one of those carry-on bags, and I gotta take a piss.  So I tell the connection I'll be right back, I'm goin' to the little boys room...
FREDDY (V.O.): ...So I walk into the men's room, and who's standing there?
FREDDY (V.O.): ...six Los Angeles County Sheriffs and a German Shepherd.
NICE GUY EDDIE (V.O.): They were waiting for you?
FREDDY (V.O.): No.  They were just a bunch of cops hangin out in the men's room, talkin.  When I walked through the door they all stopped what they were talking about and looked at me.
MR. WHITE: That's hard, man.  That's a fuckin hard situation.
FREDDY (V.O.): The German Shepherd starts barkin'.  He's barkin' at me.  I mean it's obvious he's barkin' at me.
FREDDY (V.O.): Every nerve ending, all of my senses, the blood in my veins, everything I has was screaming, "Take off, man, just take off, get the fuck outta there!"  Panic hit me like a bucket of water.  First there was the shock of it--BAM, right in the face!  Then I'm just standin there drenched in panic.
FREDDY (V.O.): And all those sheriffs are lookin at me and they know. They can smell it.  As sure as that fuckin dog cam, they can smell it on me.
SHERIFF #1: Shut up!
SHERIFF #2: So my gun's drawn, right?  I got it aimed right at him.  I tell 'em, "Freeze, don't fuckin move." And the little idiot's lookin at me, nodding his head "Yes," sayin "I know...I know...I know." Meanwhile his right hand is creepin towards his glove box.  So I scream at him, "Asshole, you better fuckin freeze right now!" And he's still lookin right at me, saying "I know...I know...I know."  And his right hand's still going for the glove box.
SHERIFF #2 (O.S.): I tell 'im, "Buddy, I'm gonna shoot you in the face right now if you don't put your hands on the fuckin dash."  And the guy's girlfriend, a real sexy Oriental bitch, starts screamin at him, "Chuck, are you out of your mind? Put your hands on the dash like the officer said."  And then like nothing, the guy snaps out of it and casually puts his hands on the dash.
SHERIFF #1: What was he goin for?
SHERIFF #2: His registration.  Stupid fuckin citizen, doesn't have the slightest idea how close he came to gettin shot.
FREDDY (OS): That's him, that's Mr. White.
HOLDAWAY: Lawrence Dimick.  Let's see what we got on him.
JODIE: This is your life, Lawrence Dimick!
JODIE (OS): Lawrence "Larry" Dimick.  Also known as Lawrence Jacobs and Alvin "Al" Jacobs.  This guy is Mr. Joe- Armed-Robbery.  He's a pro and he makes it a habit not to get caught.
JODIE: He's only been convicted twice, which is pretty good for somebody living a life of crime.  Once for armed robbery, when he was twenty- one, in Milwaukee.
FREDDY: What was it?
JODIE: Payroll office at a lumber yard. First offense - he got eighteen months.  He didn't get busted again until he was thirty-two. And then it was a backdoor bust. A routine vice squad roust.  They roust this bar, out buddy Lawrence is in there knocking down a few. He gets picked up.  He's wearing on his person an outlaw .45 automatic, apparently his weapon of choice.  Also, on his finger is a diamond ring from a jewelry store robbery a year earlier.  He got two years back inside for that.
FREDDY: Goddamn, that's hard time.
JODIE: So far, it's the only time he's ever done.
HOLDAWAY: Was this vice squad bullshit in Milwaukee?
JODIE: No.  The vice squad roust was in L.A.  He's been in Los Angeles since '77.
FREDDY: When did he do this time?
JODIE: Back in '83, got out late '86.  I found something else out I think you two should be aware of. About a year and a half ago, up in Sacramento, an undercover cop, John Dolenz, worked his way into a bank job.  Apparently before the job they found out he was a cop. Now picture this:  It's Dolenz's birthday, a bunch of cops are waiting in his apartment for a surprise party.  The door opens, everyone yells "Surprise!", and standing in the doorway is Dolenz and this other guy sticking a gun in Dolenz's ribs.  Before anybody knows what's going on, this stranger shoots Dolenz dead and starts firing two .45 automatics into the crowd.
HOLDAWAY: What happened?
JODIE: It was a mess.  Cops got hit, wives got hit, girlfriends got hit, his dog got hit.  People got glass in their faces.  Three were killed, six were wounded.
FREDDY: They couldn't pin the killing on one of the bank robbers?
JODIE: They tried, but they didn't have a positive I.D. and all those guys had alibis.  Besides, we really didn't have anything on them.  We had the testimony of a dead man that they were talking about committing a robbery.  They never went ahead with the bank job.
FREDDY: And Larry Dimick was one of the boys?
JODIE: He was probably the one.
HOLDAWAY: Just how sure are you with your cover?
FREDDY: Today they may know something, tomorrow they may know something else.  But yesterday they didn't know anything.
FREDDY (OS): What's the next step?
HOLDAWAY (OS): Do what they told ya.  Sit in your apartment and wait for 'em to call you.  We'll have guys posted outside who'll follow you when they pick you up.
FREDDY: Hello.
NICE GUY EDDIE (OS): (through phone) It's time.  Grab your jacket--
EDDIE: --We're parked outside.
FREDDY (OS): (through phone) I'll be right down.
EDDIE: He'll be right down.
FREDDY: (to himself) Don't pussy out on me now.  They don't know.  They don't know shit. (pause) You're not gonna get hurt.  You're fucking Baretta and they believe every word, cuz you're super cool.
COP #1 (OS): There goes our boy.
COP #2 (OS): I swear, a guy has to have rocks in his head the size of Gibraltar to work undercover.
COP #1 (OS): Do you want one of these?
COP #2 (OS): Yeah, gimme the bear claw.
MR. PINK: ...Hey, I know what I'm talkin about, black women ain't the same as white women.
MR. WHITE: (sarcastically) There's a slight difference.
MR. PINK: Go ahead and laugh, you know what I mean.  What a while bitch will put up with, a black bitch won't put up with for a minute.  They got a line, and if you cross it, they fuck you up.
EDDIE: I gotta go along with Mr. Pink on this.  I've seen it happen.
MR. WHITE: Okay, Mr. Expert. If this is such a truism, how come every nigger I know treats his woman like a piece of shit?
MR. PINK: I'll make you a bet that those same damn niggers who were showin their ass in public, when their bitches get 'em home, they chill the fuck out.
MR. WHITE: Not these guys.
MR. PINK: Yeah, those guys too.
EDDIE: Let me tell you guys a story.  In one of daddy's clubs there was this black cocktail waitress named Elois.
MR. WHITE: Elois?
EDDIE: Yeah, Elois. E and Lois.  We called her Lady E.
MR. WHITE: Where was she from, Compton?
EDDIE: No.  She was from Ladora Heights.
MR. PINK: The black Beverly Hills.  I knew this lady from Ladora Heights once. (in a stuck up black female voice) "Hi, I'm from Ladora Heights, it's the black Beverly Hills."
EDDIE: It's not the black Beverly Hills, it's the black Palos Verdes. Anyway, this chick, Elois, was a man-eater-upper.  I bet every guy who's ever met her has jacked off to her at least once.  You know who she looked like?  Christie Love.  'Member that TV show "Get Christie Love"?  She was a black female cop.  She always used to say "You're under arrest, sugar."
MR. PINK: I was in the sixth grade when that show was on.  I totally dug it. What the fuck was the name of the chick who played Christie Love?
EDDIE: Pam Grier.
MR. PINK: No, it wasn't Pan Grier, Pan Grier was the other one.  Pan Grier made the movies.  Christie Love was like a Pam Grier TV show, without Pam Grier.
MR. PINK: What the fuck was that chick's name?  Oh this is just great, I'm totally fuckin tortured now.
EDDIE: Well, whoever she was, Elois looked like her.  So one night I walk into the club, and no Elois. Now the bartender was a wetback, he was a friend of mine, his name was Carlos. So I asked him "Hey, Carlos, where's Lady E tonight?"  Well apparently Lady E was married to this real piece of dog shit.  I mean a real animal.  And apparently he would so things to her.
FREDDY: Do things?  What would he do?  You mean like beat her up?
EDDIE: Nobody knows for sure what he did. We just know he did something. Anyway, Elois plays it real cool. And waits for the next time this bag of shit gets drunk.  So one night the guy gets drunk and passes out on the couch.  So while the guy's inebriated, she strips him naked. Then she takes some crazy glue and glues his dick to his belly.
EDDIE: I'm dead fuckin serious.  She put some on his dick and some on his belly, then stuck 'em together. The paramedics had to come and cut it loose.
MR. WHITE: Jesus Christ!
FREDDY: You can do some crazy things with it.
EDDIE: I don't know what he did to her, but she got even.
MR. WHITE: Was he all pissed off?
MR. PINK: How would you feel if you had to do a handstand every time you took a piss.
JOE: (to everybody) ...So they're talkin about how they get their wives off, and the French guys says: (in a bad French accent) "All I gotta do is take my pinky and tickle my Fifi's little oo la la  and she rises a foot off the bed." So the dago says:
JOE: (in a good Brooklyn accent) "That's nothin.  When I take the tip of my tongue and wiggle it against my Mary Louise's little fun pimple, she rises two feet off da bed."  Then our friend from Poland says: (in dumb voice) "You guys ain't no cocksmen. When I get through fuckin my Sophie, I wipe my dick on the curtains and you know what?  She hits the roof!"
JOE: Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha!
JOE: Ain't that a masterpiece?  Stupid fuckin Polack, wipes his dick on the drapes.
JOE: You're here, great!
EDDIE: We woulda gotten here sooner, but we got backed up around La Brea and Pico.
JOE: No hurry. (to the boys) All right, let's get to know one another.  With the exception of Eddie and myself, who you already know, you'll be using aliases. Under no circumstances are you to tell one another your real name or anything else about yourself. That includes where you're from, your wife's name, where you might've done time, about a bank in St. Petersburg you might've robbed.  You guys don't say shit about who you are, where you been or what you've done.  Only thing you guys can talk about is what you're going to do.  This way the only ones who know who the members of the team are are Eddie and myself.  And that's the way I like it.  Because in the unlikely event of one of you getting apprehended by the cops, not that I expect that to happen - it most definitely should not happen - it hasn't happened, you don't have anything to deal with.  You don't know any names.  You know my name, you know Eddie's name.  That I don't care about.  You gotta prove it.  I ain't worried.  Besides, this way you gotta trust me.  I like that.  I set this up and picked the men I wanted for it. None of you came to me, I approached all of you.  I know you.  I know your work, I know your reputation.  I know you as men.  Except for this guy.
JOE: But he's OK.  If he wasn't OK, he wouldn't be here.  Okay, let me introduce everybody to everybody. But once again, at the risk of being redundant, if I even think I hear somebody telling or referring to somebody by their Christian name... (Joe searches for the right words) ...you won't want to be you. Okay, quickly. (pointing at the men as he gives them a name) Mr. Brown, Mr. White, Mr. Blonde, Mr. Blue, Mr. Orange, and Mr. Pink.
MR. PINK: Why am I Mr. Pink?
JOE: Cause you're a faggot.
MR. PINK: Why can't we pick out our own colors?
JOE: I tried that once, it don't work. You get four guys fighting over who's gonna be Mr. Black.  Since nobody knows anybody else, nobody wants to back down.  So forget it, I pick.  Be thankful you're not Mr. Yellow.
MR. BROWN: Yeah, but Mr. Brown?  That's too close to Mr. Shit.
MR. PINK: Yeah, Mr. Pink sounds like Mr. Pussy.  Tell you what, let me be Mr. Purple.  That sounds good to me, I'm Mr. Purple.
JOE: You're not Mr. Purple, somebody from another job's Mr. Purple. You're Mr. Pink.
MR. WHITE: Who cares what your name is?  Who cares if you're Mr. Pink, Mr. Purple, Mr. Pussy, Mr. Piss...
MR. PINK: Oh that's really easy for you to say, you're Mr. White.  You gotta cool-sounding name.  So tell me, Mr. White, if you think "Mr. Pink" is no big deal, you wanna trade?
JOE: Nobody's trading with anybody! Look, this ain't a goddamn fuckin city counsel meeting!  Listen up Mr. Pink.  We got two ways here, my way or the highway.  And you can go down either of 'em.  So what's it gonna be, Mr. Pink?
MR. PINK: Jesus Christ, Joe.  Fuckin forget it.  This is beneath me.  I'm Mr. Pink, let's move on.
JOE (OS): Okay fellas, let's get into this.
HOLDAWAY: Okay, we're gonna station men across the street from Karina's Fine Jewelry.  But their orders will be not to move in unless the robbery gets out of control.  You gotta make sure they don't have to move in.  You're inside to make sure that everything goes according to Hoyle.  We have men set up a block away from the warehouse rendezvous.  They got complete visibility of the exterior.  So as soon as Joe Cabot shows up, we'll see it.
FREDDY: What's your visibility of the interior?
HOLDAWAY: We can't see shit on the inside. And we can't risk gettin any closer for fear they'll spot us.
FREDDY: This is bullshit, Jim.  I get all the fuckin danger of having you guys in my back pocket but none of the safety.
HOLDAWAY: What's the matter, Newendyke?  Job too tough for ya?  No one lied to you.  You always knew we'd hang back until Joe Cabot showed up.
FREDDY: Oh this is great.  You ain't giving me no fuckin protection whatsoever.  But you are giving me an attitude.
HOLDAWAY: Since when does an undercover cop have protection?  Freddy, you came into this thing with your eyes wide open, so don't start screamin blind man now.  I understand you're nervous.  I wish the warehouse had more visible windows, but it doesn't.  We have to make do with the cards we're dealt.
FREDDY: I didn't say I wasn't gonna do it. I'm just remarking on how shitty the situation is!
HOLDAWAY: I don't mean to be harsh with ya, but I've found tough love works best in these situations.  We have to get Joe Cabot in the company of the thieves and in the same vicinity as the loot. We don't care about these other bastards.  We're willing to offer them good deals to testify against Cabot.
FREDDY: Isn't this risk unorthodox?
HOLDAWAY: What?
FREDDY: Letting them go ahead with the robbery?
HOLDAWAY: The whole idea behind this operation is to catch Joe Cabot red-handed.  We bust these hired hands, we ain't accomplished shit. Letting them go through with the heist is a risk, but Cabot's jobs are very clean.  We got people surrounding the perimeter.  We got a guy and a gal on the inside posing as a couple shopping for rings.  We could replace the employees with cops, but we'd run the risk of tipping 'em off.
FREDDY: That's out.  They know the faces of who works what shift.
HOLDAWAY: These guys are professionals. We're professionals.  It's a risk, but I think it's a calculated risk.
MR. WHITE (VO): Let's go over it.  Where are you?
FREDDY (VO): I stand outside and guard the door.  I don't let anybody come in or go out.
MR. WHITE (VO): Mr. Brown?
FREDDY (VO): Mr. Brown stays in the car.  He's parked across the street till I give him the signal, then he pulls up in front of the store.
MR. WHITE (VO): Mr. Blonde and Mr. Blue?
FREDDY (VO): Crowd control.  They handle customers and employees in the display area.
MR. WHITE: Myself and Mr. Pink?
FREDDY: You two take the manager in the back and make him give you the diamonds.  We're there for those stones, period.  Since no display cases are being fucked with, no alarms should go off.  We're out of there in two minutes, not one second longer.  What if the manager won't give up the diamonds?
MR. WHITE: When you're dealing with a store like this, they're insured up the ass.  They're not supposed to give you and resistance whatsoever.  If you get a customer or an employee who thinks he's Charles Bronson, take the butt of your gun and smash their nose in. Drops 'em right to the floor. Everyone jumps, he falls down, screaming, blood squirts out his nose.  Freaks everybody out. Nobody says fuckin shit after that.  You might get some bitch talk shit to ya.  But give her a look, like you're gonna smash her in the face next.  Watch her shut the fuck up.  Now if it's a manager, that's a different story. The managers know better than to fuck around.  So if one's givin you static, he probably thinks he's a real cowboy.  So what you gotta do is break that son-of-a- bitch in two.  If you wanna know something and he won't tell you, cut off one of his fingers.  The little one.  Then you tell 'im his thumb's next.  After that he'll tell ya if he wears ladies underwear.  I'm hungry, let's get a taco.
MR. BROWN: (screaming) My eyes!  My eyes!  I'm blind, I'm fucking blind!
FREDDY: You're not blind, there's just blood in your eyes.
MR. BROWN: Mr. Orange?  You're Mr. Orange, aren't you?
MR. WHITE: Is he dead?
MR. WHITE: Did he did or not?
FREDDY: I'm sorry.
MR. WHITE: What?  Snap out of it!
MR. WHITE: Get us outta here!
MR. WHITE: The bitch's got a gun!
MR. WHITE (OS): Just hold on buddy boy.
FREDDY: I'm sorry.  I can't believe she killed me...
EDDIE: (looking through the case) You know, all things considered, this was pretty successful.
MR. WHITE: I don't believe you just said that.
EDDIE: No, it was messy as hell, but do you realize how much you got away with?  There's over two million dollars worth of diamonds here.
MR. PINK: I love this guy.
EDDIE: Hey, what's done is done.  We can all sit around and have a big cry about it or we can deal with the situation at hand.
MR. WHITE: The situation as hand isn't that fuckin satchel.  You and Joe have a responsibility to your men.
EDDIE: Hey, it's the best I could do.
MR. WHITE: The man is fucking dying.
EDDIE: And I'm telling you, Bonnie'll take care of him.
MR. WHITE: He needs a doctor, not a fuckin nurse.
EDDIE: Ask me how many doctors I called. You wanna embarrass yourself, ask me how many doctors I called.
MR. WHITE: Obviously not enough.
EDDIE: Fuck you! You gotta little black book, then whip is out.  If not, listen how it is.  I called three doctors and couldn't get through to shit.  Now, time being a factor, I called Bonnie.  Sweet broad, helluva broad, and a registered nurse.  Told her a bullshit story, upside:  she said bring him to her apartment.
MR. WHITE: If he dies I'm holding you personally responsible.
EDDIE: Fuck you buddy boy!  Okay, you wanna play that way.  I am personally leaving myself vulnerable with this Bonnie situation.  I don't think she'll call the cops, but I don't know for sure.  But me being too nice- a-fuckin-guy was willin to risk it.  But no fuckin more. (he grabs his portable phone) I'm callin Bonnie back and tellin her to forget it.  You take care of your friend, you know so much about it.
MR. PINK: Goddamnit, will you guys grow up!
EDDIE: I don't need to grow up, my friend.  I am a grown up.  I'm being responsible, I'm taking care of business.
MR. WHITE: Cut the shit!  I don't think you called anybody except some cooze you once fucked, who happens to wear orthopedic shoes.  And I don't think that's good enough care for a gut-shot man.
EDDIE: Yeah, well I don't give a flying fuck what you think!
MR. PINK: (to Mr. White) Look, he's not sayin this bitch is gonna operate on him.  She's gonna give him better attention than we can until we can get a doctor. Nobody's forgotten about doctors. Joe'll get one in a snap.  This is something we're doing in the meantime.  I think both of you are actin like a couple of assholes.
EDDIE: Yeah, right.  I arrange a nurse, I leave myself wide open, and I'm an asshole.
EDDIE: What the fuck happened here?
MR. WHITE: (to Mr. Orange) What happened?
MR. ORANGE: (very weakly) Blonde went crazy.  He slashed the cop's face, cut off his ear and was gonna burn him alive.
EDDIE: (yelling) Who cares what he was gonna do to this fuckin pig?
EDDIE: (to Mr. Orange) You were saying he went crazy? Something like that?  Worse or better?
MR. ORANGE: Look, Eddie, he was pullin a burn. He was gonna kill the cop and me. And when you guys walked through the door, he was gonna blow you to hell and make off with the diamonds.
MR. WHITE: (to Eddie) Uhuh, uhuh, what's I tell ya? That sick piece of shit was a stone cold psycho.
MR. ORANGE: (to Eddie) You could've asked the cop, if you didn't just kill him.  He talked about what he was going to do when he was slicing him up.
EDDIE: I don't buy it.  It doesn't make sense.
MR. WHITE: It makes perfect fuckin sense to me.  Eddie, you didn't see how he acted during the job, we did.
MR. PINK: He's right about the ear, it's hacked off.
EDDIE: (to Mr. Orange) Let me say this out loud, just to get it straight in my mind. According to you, Mr. Blonde was gonna kill you.  Then when we came back, kill us, grab the diamonds, and scram.  That's your story? I'm correct about that, right?
MR. ORANGE: Eddie, you can believe me or not believe me, but it's the truth.  I swear on my mother's eternal soul that's what happened.
EDDIE: You're a fuckin liar.  Now why don't you drop the fuckin fairy tale and tell me what really happened?
MR. WHITE (OS): He told you what really happened. You just can't deal with it.
MR. ORANGE (OS): Okay, you're right, I'm lying. Even though I'm fuckin dyin I'm not above pullin a fast one.  Get rid of Blonde, we share his split - no, scratch that, I shot him 'cause I didn't like his hair style.  I didn't like his shoes either.  If it has just been his hair, I'd've maybe, maybe I said, let him live.  But hair and footwear together, he's a goner.
EDDIE: The man you killed was just released from prison.  He got caught at a company warehouse full of hot items.  He could've walked away.  All he had to do was say my dad's name.  But instead he shut his mouth and did his time.  He did four years for us, and he did 'em like a man.  And we were very grateful.  So, Mr. Orange, you're tellin me this very good friend of mine, who did four years for my father, who in four years never made a deal, no matter what they dangled in front of him, you're telling me that now, that now this man is free, and we're making good on our commitment to him, he's just gonna decide, right out of the fuckin blue, to rip us off?
EDDIE: Mr. Orange, why don't you tell me what really happened?
VOICE (OS): Why?  It'll just be more bullshit.
JOE: (pointing to Mr. Orange) This man set us up.
EDDIE: Daddy, I'm sorry, I don't know what's happening.
JOE: That's okay, Eddie, I do.
MR. WHITE: (to Joe) What the fuck are you talking about?
JOE: (pointing to Mr. Orange) That piece of shit.  Workin with the cops.
MR. WHITE   MR. PINK   EDDIE: What?
JOE: I said this lump of shit is workin with the LAPD.
JOE: Aren't you?
MR. ORANGE (OS): I don't have the slightest fuckin idea what you're talkin about.
MR. WHITE: (very calmly to Joe) Joe, I don't know what you think you know, but you're wrong.
JOE: Like hell I am.
MR. WHITE: (very calmly) Joe, trust me on this, you've made a mistake.  He's a good kid. I understand you're hot, you're super-fuckin pissed.  We're all real emotional.  But you're barking up the wrong tree.  I know this man, and he wouldn't do that.
JOE: You don't know jack shit.  I do. This rotten bastard tipped off the cops and got Mr. Brown and Mr. Blue killed.
MR. PINK: Mr. Blue's dead?
JOE: Dead as Dillinger.
EDDIE: The motherfucker killed Vic.
MR. WHITE: How do you know all this?
JOE: He was the only one I wasn't a hundred percent on.  I should have my fucking head examined for goin forward when I wasn't a hundred percent.  But he seemed like a good kid, and I was impatient and greedy and all the things that fuck you up.
MR. WHITE: (screaming) That's your proof?
JOE: You don't need proof when you got instinct.  I ignored it before, but not no more.
EDDIE: Have you lost your fucking mind? Put your gun down!
MR. WHITE: Joe, you're making a terrible mistake I can't let you make.
EDDIE: Stop pointing your fuckin gun at daddy!
JOE: Don't worry, Eddie.  Me and Larry have been friends a long time, he ain't gonna shoot.  We like each other too much.
MR. WHITE: Joe, if you kill that man, you die next.  Repeat, if you kill that man, you die next!
MR. PINK: C'mon, guys, nobody wants this. We're supposed to me fuckin professionals!
JOE: Larry, I'm gonna kill him.
MR. WHITE: Goddamn you, Joe, don't make me do this!
JOE: Larry, I'm askin you to trust me on this.
MR. WHITE: Don't ask me that.
JOE: I'm not askin, I'm betting.
EDDIE: Daddy, don't!
POLICE FORCE (OS): Freeze! Get out of the car and lie face down on the ground!
MR. PINK (OS): Don't shoot!
MR. WHITE: (with much effort) Sorry, kid.  Looks like we're gonna do a little time.
MR. ORANGE: I'm a cop.
MR. ORANGE: I'm sorry, I'm so sorry.
POLICE FORCE (OS): Freeze, motherfucker!  Drop your fucking gun!
