DOCTOR: He lifts the child from her loins, but it makes no sound. We don't see the baby - just the shock on the Doctor's face. The mother struggles up to see her child. The Doctor grabs the sheet from her torso and covers the baby with it. He thrusts the bundle into the Priest's hands.
A HELICOPTER: Off the roof of a tall hospital building. As it rises up into the night we see a red cross painted on its side. It's an air ambulance. The chopper turns away. The Manhattan skyline, every skyscraper a blaze of lights, opens up behind it. The chopper swoops over the Brooklyn bridge and into the night.
BLOOD SPRAYS: But not from the baby's chest - it's in glass vials, exploding as white-hot flames consume them. A plastic-gloved lab assistant, silhouetted against the flames, is emptying hospital waste into a furnace. He slams the door He turns we see his face. He's in his 4Os, handsome in a rough-hewn way - a strong jaw and a muscular body. There's a cool intelligence in his eyes, but a two-day beard and a worn-out uniform make him look like a man who, between youth and middle-age, lost his way. And so he has. His name is WILL
DIAMOND: The exact cause of death is still unknown. What is certain - we're dealing with something we've never seen before. Every organ in the body is Superimposed over Diamond's face is a three dimensional, computer-generated graphic of the baby's body. Will forgets about what he's doing. He walks towards the screen. We push in on it. Screeds of new data appear Vascular System .....Atrophied Neurological Function ...Senile dementia We hold on Will's eyes - he stares at it.
AN AUDITORIUM: Billy Rae Diamond stands on a podium continuing her briefing. About forty scientists are sitting in front of her in a dimly-lit lecture hall. Diamond is even more impressive in person - she is tall and gracious but you don't become a Professor at Harvard' at her age without having an iron will and a sparkling intelligence. She speaks with great authority -
DIAMOND: But the Center for Disease Control in Atlanta has received similar reports from a village in Bolivia, two cities in Australia, seven countries in Europe, a cluster of cases in Namibia and Mexico. Forty-two cases in all. As she speaks, pinpoints of light on the map identify the exact locations. They dot their way across the entire globe. Dr Diamond turns to face her DIAMOND ( CONT'D ) Like Michael Flanagan, they were full-term babies. Two hundred and seventy eight days since conception and yet, by all reasonable medical standards, they have completed their entire life cycle. They have gone from conception to death, not in three score years and ten, but in slightly less than nine months. Michael Flanagan died of old age. Silence as Diamond lets the scientists and researchers absorb it. On a balcony high above, another man is taking notes. He sits alone, almost hidden in shadow. It's Will Robinson.
SPIDERS: weave a web in a corner of the storage unit. A work light hangs from the ceiling. Will is ripping open stacks of boxes from long ago. He puts together a pile of yellowing files and old floppy disks.
WILL: ( on tape ) I would like to thank the faculty and staff for this great honor. We push in on Will's face as he listens to himself.
LAFAYETTE PARK: Night. Homeless people in the park build cardboard shelters against a coming storm. Across the road, the first drops of rain splatter against the White House. A string of Government cars pass through the huge gates and pull up in front of the West Portico. From inside, we hear a man's voice - well-spoken, authoritative
JEFFERSON LIBRARY: Diamond sits in the President's study - book-lined walls, a fire in the hearth. A group of men sit on the sofasthe Surgeon-General, the Chief of Staff, the National Security Advisor, the Secretaw of Health. A table is littered with graphs end files.
DIAMOND: We've got five thousand cases now, Mr President. That's in three weeks. The number is doubling every hundred and sixty-eight hours. The President stands near a window, half in shadow, the firelight playing across his face. He's in his 50's but the strain of office makes him look DIAMOND ( CONT'D ) That's a geometric progression, sir. In three months there'Il be over seven million cases. After that we hit the wall - She pushes a thick, bound volume across the table.
PRESIDENT: These are just computer projections - species don't disappear that fast.
DIAMOND: Tell that to the dinosaurs, sir. He looks out the window at the winter storm sweeping down on them.
DIAMOND: Six months and twenty-one days. Silence. The President keeps looking out the window.
PRESIDENT: Can't somebody tell me - what exactly are we dealing with. Is it a virus or We don't know, sir. The President turns to the Chief of Staff.
DIAMOND: We don't know, sir. The President turns to the Chief of Staff.
PRESIDENT: Whatever they need, Bob - anything. Harry Truman put together the Manhattan Project - you understand? The Chief of Staff nods his head - yes.
PRESS SECRETARY: We're going to have to manage the public. Right now, the truth may be inoperative -
PRESIDENT: Of course we're going to have to manage itl We're going to have to manage a whole lot of things. But can't we take at least one moment to be human? He looks around the room. We hold on their somber faces.
WILL: ( softly ) Jesus Christ. of course!
DIAMOND: Who is it?
DIAMOND: I think you have the wrong house.
DIAMOND: ( interrupting ) Hold on - how do you know about the case load? The Government's trying to manage this - they've withheld that information.
WILL: The Internet, Doctor. It's a highway - you can ride it anywhere you want. I got into 'the Center for Disease Control. I had a look at their raw data.
DIAMOND: Jesus. Do you know what you're doing? This is the White House we're talking ( Heated ) ) No, it's a disease and it doesn't come any worse than this - that's what we're talking about.
WILL: ( Heated ) ) No, it's a disease and it doesn't come any worse than this - that's what we're talking about.
WILL: I've listened at the lab - I think I know where you're looking. Bacterias mostly, but there's a strong push into the retro-viruses. You're wrong, Really - and I thought I was arrogant. But then, I'm just a professor.
DIAMOND: Really - and I thought I was arrogant. But then, I'm just a professor.
WILL: No virus or bacteria has ever discriminated on the grounds of sex.
DIAMOND: I can think of one.
WILL: Sure, it can start in pockets but it never stays there. This thing does. It only affects women of child-bearing age. What - it's so smart it can recognize motherhood? I don't think so. No, this is into the very heart of what we are. This is genetic. This is part of the DNA.
DIAMOND: Thank you. A hundred thousand genes make up human DNA - that really narrows it down.
WILL: As a matter of fact it does. There's only one part of the DNA that's passed exclusively through women. Thirty-seven genes, the oldest part of the human organism -
DIAMOND: ( realizing ) The mitochondrial DNA.
WILL: Over the years there's been speculation -not all of it crazy either - that somehow it triggers aging, He slides a sheaf of yellowing extracts from scientific journals across the table. She doesn't pay them any attention - she's thinking.
DIAMOND: You realize what you're saying, don't you? A bacteria - I think we'd get it for sure. A virus -you'd have to say we've got a chance. But say you're right. The mitochondrial DNA - that's so far out on the frontier, we can barely see it.
WILL: Like I said - it doesn't get any worse than this. She keeps staring down at the documents and notes lying on the table. A WILL ( CONT'D ) Are you okay?
DIAMOND: WILL LOOKS AT HER FOR A MOMENT - Shit. You're pregnant, aren't you?
WILL: Shit. You're pregnant, aren't you?
DIAMOND: Nine weeks.
DIAMOND: Do you want a drink - coffee, a sandwich or something?
WILL: ( Recoiling ) No.no, I'm fine thanks. Watches as he picks up his papers and puts them back in his battered AN EMPTY STREET It's late at night. Will clutches his briefcase under his arm, heading home. A bitter wind blows out of the north. He looks a lonely and forlorn figure as he makes his way through the pools of light cast by the CONVOY OF N.A.S.A. TRUCKS RUMBLE THROUGH THE EARLY MORNING - THE CITY IS JUST WAKING. THE TRUCKS, DOZENS OF WHITE EIGHTEEN-WHEELERS, TURN THROUGH THE FRONT GATES OF HARVARD. THEY STOP IN FRONT OF THE GROVE OF TREES. WE CRANE UP FROM THEM TO A WINDOW IN THE BIOLOGY BUILDING - HAND HITS A TABLE IT'S DIAMOND - SHE'S ANGRY. BREAKFAST TRAYS CLUTTER THE TABLE -SHE'S IN THE MIDDLE OF A CONFERENCE WITH A GROUP OF SCIENTISTS. SHE GLARES AT AN ARROGANT YOUNG NEUROLOGIST - It's just an idea, Bob. All we're doing is taking it for a walk around the A man in his 60s - distinguished, diplomatic - intercedes.
DIAMOND: It's just an idea, Bob. All we're doing is taking it for a walk around the A man in his 60s - distinguished, diplomatic - intercedes.
DE MAUPASSANT: There was a lot of work done on it in the 7Os. I can't recall the details but someone had the idea that mitochondriel DNA was like a genetic memory. If you could unlock it, you could physically travel back down it. Through evolution - like a time machine.
BOB: Wowl Those 70s, man. I'm really sorry I missed them. Everyone - Diamond included - laughs.
DIAMOND: I thought you'd like to know - we're looking at mitochondrial DNA,
WILL: Thanks for telling me.
DIAMOND: Is that you? She points at a man in his 20s standing on the deck in one of the photos, Will nods.
WILL: No. Princeton.
DIAMOND: A scholarship. Then I did some post-graduate work. I never really Something in the way Will says it - some sense of loss - makes Diamond pause. She recovers and looks in her wallet. She pulls out a photograph and hands it to Will. It shows a small sailing boatgaff-rigged and a varnished WILL ( CONT'D ) It's a Kestrel 24 - I haven't seen one of those in years. She's a beautiful My grandfather left it to me. I don't sail it much any more - it's too hard to find a for'etd hand.
WILL: A scholarship. Then I did some post-graduate work. I never really Something in the way Will says it - some sense of loss - makes Diamond pause. She recovers and looks in her wallet. She pulls out a photograph and hands it to Will. It shows a small sailing boatgaff-rigged and a varnished WILL ( CONT'D ) It's a Kestrel 24 - I haven't seen one of those in years. She's a beautiful My grandfather left it to me. I don't sail it much any more - it's too hard to find a for'etd hand.
DIAMOND: My grandfather left it to me. I don't sail it much any more - it's too hard to find a for'etd hand.
WILL: What about your husband - doesn't he sail.
DIAMOND: I don't know - I haven't met him yet.
DIAMOND: I wanted a baby but I'm thirty-four-years old. Sooner or later you realize that somewhere along the way you've missed the man you've been waiting for.
WILL: What did you do - ask a friend?
DIAMOND: I thought of it.
WILL: Lucky friend.
DIAMOND: I went to a clinic. Not exactly romantic, but it worked. ( pauses ) Good idea, bad timing.
WILL: How many people have you put on the mDNA?
DIAMOND: That's all?!
WILL: That's all?!
DIAMOND: That's all I can spare. It's just a theory -one of dozens of theories. Will looks away in disgust.
WILL: I know I'm right. It's a mutation. A hundred thousand years it's probably been lying there -shifting, weaving into the mDNA. You either go back and change evolution or you engineer it out. Seven peopleYou might as well shoot peas at a dam.
DIAMOND: You haven't answered my question - why so passionate?
WILL: The question's not relevant. The only thing I'm interested in is the He turns back to his work. We hear the door close as Diamond leaves.
MCQUADE: You want to tell me what's going on? She turns and looks at Diamond, sitting on the other side of the desk,
DIAMOND: Don't ask, Kris, I'd have to lie and I don't want to do that to my best The rumor is, you've done something really big. They say the Defense Department is taking it over. Diamond just sits there, staring straight ahead. McQuade waits. Finally -
MCQUADE: The rumor is, you've done something really big. They say the Defense Department is taking it over. Diamond just sits there, staring straight ahead. McQuade waits. Finally -
DIAMOND: He hasn't done anything - I'm just interested.
MCQUADE: Ten thousand employment records I've got on file and you want to know about a lab assisant?
DIAMOND: The smartest assistant I've ever known.
MCQUADE: What - he can mop and fart at the same time? She picks up pages from a computer printer - including a copy of Will's photo I.D.
DIAMOND: No, but he's the most unbelievable smelling man.
MCQUADE: Smelling? You're pregnant - obviously your hormones have gone crazy. What exactly does he smell like?
DIAMOND: You know. ( searching for the right word ) .., wholesome.
MCQUADE: Of course he does - that's the Lysol. Diamond laughs but McQuade barely notices it. She's leafing through WiU's file -
ASSISTANT: Your secretary's on the line, Dr Diamond. There's a call for you.
DIAMOND: Tell her to take a message.
ASSISTANT: It's the New York Times.
MCQUADE: What do they want?
DIAMOND: I think Washington's news management just went south.
FIFTH AVENUE: is totally empty - just a young man on rollerblades. He skates effortlessly down the deserted avenue - past Tiffany's and the Trump Tower, all silent PRESIDENT ( O.S. ) My fellow Americans. The rollerblader passes the cathedral of St John. The front doors are open. Someone is playing the organ - Mozart's Requiem. The rollerblader fades into the night.
CARETAKER: This used to be the basement of the Psychology Department. We just sort of stacked everything around 'em - He flicks a switch - the storage room floods with light. He points at two long iron cylinders - like small submarines - rigged up to a series of valves and pipes.
WILL: Deprivation - sensory deprivation.
CARETAKER: Yeah, well - whatever.
WILL: Just looking. I'll be coming back - I'll need a key. The caretaker shrugs - sure. Will climbs out of the tank.
CARETAKER: Who would I tell? They treat me like shit Worse than shit. All work, no appreciation. The phantom of Harvard. Someone should write a fucking musical about me.
RESEARCHER: Here's another one - "Mitochondrial DNAA Map to the Past."
DIAMOND: Who's it by?
RESEARCHER: Same guy - Doctor Robert Plant.
DIAMOND: Jesus, what did this guy do - write the book on it? Who is he?
RESEARCHER: Wow - I thought your career was impressive. Diamond looks up from her reading.
DIAMOND: And then?
RESEARCHER: Then nothing.
DIAMOND: Where did he go as an undergraduate?
RESEARCHER: On a scholarship?
DIAMOND: On a scholarship?
A CORRIDOR: It's late at night. The scientists and their staff are working around the clock. Will wheels a trolley laden with bottles, vials, and catheters down a crowded corridor. Diamond pushes through the people behind, trying to catch up to him. Scientists turn to speak to her but she ignores them.
DIAMOND'S OFFICE: She sits behind her desk, listening to the chief of campus security.
SECURITY OFFICER: The equipment you saw him with was taken from three labs. It includes a range of genetic material- ( hands her an inventory ) We've checked all the buildings your team is using - he's not in any of What about hie house?
DIAMOND: What about hie house?
SECURITY OFFICER: He asked his landlady to look after his cat. She hasn't seen him for three IN THE BASEMENT there's a make-shift bed and a hot-plate with a battered saucepan. Next to it is a rack of medical equipment and laboratory vials. Will is sit'ting in front of three computers running in parallel - data and equations reel across them. The caretaker comes out of the shadows, carrying two mugs of thick coffee. He puts one down next to Will -
CARETAKER: You wanna tell me what exactly you're doing?
WILL: Looking for a date. The caretaker stares at the confusion of diagrams and equations on the screen -
CARETAKER: What's wrong with a calendar?
WILL: These are chemical sequences - they represent human genes. By following a trail of mutations, I can date them. I'm trying to find out when a major change occurred in something called the mitochondrial DNA.
CARETAKER: The mitochondrial DNA? Yeah. well that makes sense. But Will barely hears it. Suddenly he's leaning forward, keyboarding in complex commands. The caretaker watches him -
WILL: He has illustrations of two long-chain molecules on the screen. He moves them together. Aa they overlap, we see they're not identical - the tail of one kicks upwarda. Will starel at it -
CARETAKER: So - what's the date? Will presses a key. Faster than the eye can follow, the first long-chain molecule starts to shift and mutate. Finally it resolves itself into the second molecule. Will looks at a graph on the side of the screen -
WILL: The best computer science can do? One hundred and two thousand years ago.
CARETAKER: Sort of what I figured - give or take a day or two.
DIAMOND'S OFFICE: Diamond is poring through scientific articles written by Will. She flicks a page -there's a photo of Will, 20 years younger, surrounded by three colleagues. He's got his arm around one of them - an attractive young Diamond lifts the photo, looking at it more closely. She starts to read the caption. We push in on it and hold on the words. "UC Berkeley".
WILL: This is someone's version of the prehistoric world. I'm interested in the geography, the atmosphere -that sort of stuff.
CARETAKER: Where are we?
WILL: Africa - that's where Mankind started. Will keeps looking at the strange images. The caretaker gets to his feet -
CARETAKER: I'll see you in the morning.
WILL: The caretaker limps towards the door. Will looks up -
CARETAKER: It sounds like you're leaving or something.
WILL: No. I just wanted to say it, that's all. The caretaker keeps looking at him -
CARETAKER: What exactly are you doing? You're a bit old to try and make your mark, aren't you? Anyway, nobody listens to people like us.
WILL: Fate can be kind - sometimes a man gets a second chance. Do you know what it's like to be ridiculed, to have your ideas thrown back in your face? And that was the easy part. I guess that's what I'm doing - I want to prove that I was right.
CARETAKER: You're lying to me.
WILL: What do you mean?!
CARETAKER: You are going somewhere. I don't know where it is. I'm not even sure I can imagine it. Good luck, though. I hope you find whatever it is you're looking for.
WILL: No point in getting you breakfast, huh? Will shakes his head - no. They smile at each other. The caretaker turns and goes.
CARETAKER: No point in getting you breakfast, huh? Will shakes his head - no. They smile at each other. The caretaker turns and goes.
DIAMOND'S OFFICE: Diamond looks up from the papers and articles littering her desk. Her Secretary stands in the doorway -
SECRETARY: I've got Eleanor Wilkins on the phone. She runs the archives at Berkeley.
DIAMOND: ( into phone ) Ms Wilkins? We push in tight on Diamond's face as she listens. Anxiety and alarm register on it.
OUTER OFFICE: The security officer and several of his men are looking at maps of the campus. Researchers and scientists have gathered in the office, rumors are flying. Everyone turns - Diamond stands in the doorway to her office. She looks at deMaupassant.
SECURITY OFFICER: Is that possible?
DIAMOND: He was the best of his generation. He thinks so. He's got the genetic material for the key. All he needs are flotation tanks.
BOB: A theory's one thing - do you really think he'll try it?
DIAMOND: He's spent fifteen years as a lab assistant. He lives in a two room walk-up with a cat. No family, no friends. What's There's left for him here? Of course he'll do it. Smack! They push through the doors, into another corridor.
WILL'S POV: red mist swirls in front of him. It resolves itself into a web of interwoven tendrils -the double helix of the DNA molecule. Will starts to travel through it -
NO!: The security officer turns - Diamond is holding the catheter in her hand.
WILL'S POV: He spirals down a tunnel - into a whirlpool of white light. As he hits, it shatters into a million fragments of light. It looks like a comet, wheeling through the heavens. A cosmic wind blows it forward. Will is traveling through space and time -
DIAMOND: Everything's here - he kept a record of every step. He can even tell the date -forty hours after he arrives there's a solar eclipse.
BOB: Billie - there's a note for you. Diamond looks over his shoulder at the computer screen. She reads what is writ'ten -
DIAMOND: "I won't be here, but if I solve this thing make sure you tell them, Billie. Tell them it was Robert Plant, Doctor Robert Plant of UC Berkeley."
THE SUN: streaming into a cave. Will lies in the fetal position, bleeding from his nose and ears. The light grows stronger - it's dawn. Will drags himself up and stumbles towards the entrance. We tilt up from him. He doesn't see it, but we do - prehistoric cave paintings are etched into the rock.
WILL: I don't have a tribe. A rolling murmur of disbelief from the surrounding tribe.
KIP: No man can live without a tribe! How would he hunt the mighty animals? Who would keep his fire burning?
WILL: I come from far away. I'm a traveler.
KIP: What is traveler? Is that a tribe? Again Will's at a loss. Something catches Kip's eye. He reaches forward and rips the water bag out from under Will's coat. The tribe reacts -
WILL: Whackl A blow to the back of Will's neck knocks him to his knees. He looks up -two warriors have their spears raised, about to plunge them into his A sound like thunder - it's hooves. The warriors turn. Will follows their gaze - half an army, mounted on horseback, surges into the gorge, They are heavily armed, dressed in armor but it's not their weaponry that astonishes Will. These are apes! The tribes-people scream in terror. They turn and run. The two warriors forget about Will. He dives for cover in a pile of rocks. As he tears himself free of the ropes that bind him, he looks out - The apes charge in to the camp. At their head is a huge gorillarippling muscles and intelligent eyes - deep set and yellow, like pissholes in the snow. He wears a suit of black armor ribbed in silver. His name is Drak. He is the Lord of the High Rivers, supreme commander of the ape army. On either side ride his elite Praetorian Guard. Woo-woo-woo! Kip swings a hollow piece of wood above his head. It's a bull-roarer. The warriors of the tribe know its meaning - they rally to Kip's side. Armed only with spears and primitive bows they stand between the apes and their panic-driven people, trying to buy them time to get into the cave. Sswhish! The sound of arrows. The apes carry triple-barreled iron Short iron bolts cut several of the tribesmen down. Dust and smoke swirls across the camp. Kip and his men, fighting all the way, retreat towards the A baby's cry! Will turns - a toddler sits at a hearth, left behind in the confusion. Will half rises to his feet, about to go for him. Too late - there's a blur of movement irt the trees. A tribe-boy - too young to be a warrior - has come back for the child. Out of the dust and smoke - Drak! Foam flies from his horse's mouth. He's seen the boy and the child. He locks what looks like a Gatling gun tight under his huge bicep. Will screams a warning. The boy turns - he sees Drak as he fires. A hail of iron darts - twenty or more - cut him and the child down. Rage flashes in Will's eyes. He scrambles over a boulder and rips a crossbow from a dead ape's hand. He slides bolts into the barrels and grabs a lever with both hands -you need the strength of an ape to cock it. A sound behind him - little more than a whisper. He swings -It's an arrow. Whackl It rips into his shoulder, hurling him to the ground. Ape infantry - foot soldiers - are coming into the gorge behind him. In their midst are three huge steam-driven machines - like iron erector sets. One is the Claw, one is the Balls and the other is the Flame.
NO!: Whackl A blow to the back of Will's neck knocks him to his knees. He looks up -two warriors have their spears raised, about to plunge them into his A sound like thunder - it's hooves. The warriors turn. Will follows their gaze - half an army, mounted on horseback, surges into the gorge, They are heavily armed, dressed in armor but it's not their weaponry that astonishes Will. These are apes! The tribes-people scream in terror. They turn and run. The two warriors forget about Will. He dives for cover in a pile of rocks. As he tears himself free of the ropes that bind him, he looks out - The apes charge in to the camp. At their head is a huge gorillarippling muscles and intelligent eyes - deep set and yellow, like pissholes in the snow. He wears a suit of black armor ribbed in silver. His name is Drak. He is the Lord of the High Rivers, supreme commander of the ape army. On either side ride his elite Praetorian Guard. Woo-woo-woo! Kip swings a hollow piece of wood above his head. It's a bull-roarer. The warriors of the tribe know its meaning - they rally to Kip's side. Armed only with spears and primitive bows they stand between the apes and their panic-driven people, trying to buy them time to get into the cave. Sswhish! The sound of arrows. The apes carry triple-barreled iron Short iron bolts cut several of the tribesmen down. Dust and smoke swirls across the camp. Kip and his men, fighting all the way, retreat towards the A baby's cry! Will turns - a toddler sits at a hearth, left behind in the confusion. Will half rises to his feet, about to go for him. Too late - there's a blur of movement irt the trees. A tribe-boy - too young to be a warrior - has come back for the child. Out of the dust and smoke - Drak! Foam flies from his horse's mouth. He's seen the boy and the child. He locks what looks like a Gatling gun tight under his huge bicep. Will screams a warning. The boy turns - he sees Drak as he fires. A hail of iron darts - twenty or more - cut him and the child down. Rage flashes in Will's eyes. He scrambles over a boulder and rips a crossbow from a dead ape's hand. He slides bolts into the barrels and grabs a lever with both hands -you need the strength of an ape to cock it. A sound behind him - little more than a whisper. He swings -It's an arrow. Whackl It rips into his shoulder, hurling him to the ground. Ape infantry - foot soldiers - are coming into the gorge behind him. In their midst are three huge steam-driven machines - like iron erector sets. One is the Claw, one is the Balls and the other is the Flame.
WILL: Kip sees Will galloping towards him. One of the apes raises a double-bladed sword. Kip jumps sprawling across the horse's neck, grabbing on to its flowing mane. Drak stares at Will - he's never seen anything like him. He wheels his horse around and spurs it forward in pursuit.
DRAK: So - it's human, after ell. He spits the blood out in revulsion. Will stares into the piu-holes in his face. Never has he seen eyes so cold. Will tries to rise to hie feet. His wounded shoulder has weakened him - he staggers. Drak's clenched fist, clad in chain mail, drives straight et Will's jaw. Smashl Fade to black.
WILL: ( fevered, disoriented ) Where the fuck am I? Will looks up - a huge ape sits guard in the back of the wagon.
GUARD: ( smiling ) The end of the road. Will - confused, panicky - grabs the side of the cart and hauls himself to his knees. He looks past an escort of ape cavalry - they are traveling down an avenue of idols -towering statues of apes, sculpted out of stone, old as ages past. Fires burn somewhere within them giving the eyes a red, flickering glow. Will turns away. Behind him he sees humans, rows of them - dead - hanging upsidl down from long poles like trophies. Everything comes flooding back - he slumps against the side of the cart, eyes barely focused. Blood trickles down under his shirt and forms a pool between his legs. He doesn't even notice it.
WILL: A city. of course. Ape city! I've destroyed my mind. Or maybe I'm dead and this is God's last joke - hell is ruled by apes. Whhish - the end of a whip sails through the air. Crack! It hits Will's back, doubling him over.
GUARD: Quiet, animal!
NAZGUL: The raiders are home.
OLD APE: ( lazily ) Good hunting? Nazgul squints against the sun. He sees the poles carrying the dead humans.
NAZGUL: By the look of it.
GRAY BEARD: ( proudly ) Not as good as when we rode the high ridges, I'll warrant.
NAZGUL: Times are different now. Back then, a could go out and come back with a brace of animals. They're far scarcer now -
OLD APE: Not scarce enough, I say. There's a murmur of agreement from the other apes.
KID: What is it?
GRANDFATHER: Some. sort of human.
KID: But look at the eyes, 'Pa - they're the color of the sea. Where's it from?
GRANDFATHER: I don't know - a traveler, maybe. Nobody knows what lies beyond the Tower of the Moon.
WOMAN: No it's not - it's a mutant.
LABORER: Put it in the zoo! A female ape pushes them aside. She's heavy-set, bright eyes, an air of authority about her. Over her shoulder she carries a leather satchel with a series of steel instruments dangling from it. Her name is ZORA - she is a She and her ASSISTANT - a young male - swing themselves on to the cart. Kneeling beside him, Zora puts her hand down and grabs hold of Will's Whatever it is, it's male. She rips open Will's shirt - his chest is covered in blood from the gaping ZORA ( CONT'D ) The Assistant hands her a steel instrument. She slides it towards the wound. We hold on Will's face - a strangled cry but he doesn't regain consciousness. Zore returns the bloodied probe to her Assistant. She calls out -
ZORA: Whatever it is, it's male. She rips open Will's shirt - his chest is covered in blood from the gaping ZORA ( CONT'D ) The Assistant hands her a steel instrument. She slides it towards the wound. We hold on Will's face - a strangled cry but he doesn't regain consciousness. Zore returns the bloodied probe to her Assistant. She calls out -
DRAK: I didn't bring him all this way just to have him die.
ZORA: ( to the assistant ) Ben-Guri - get a vet. Quicklyl
VET: We're going to have to give him blood.
NAZGUL: It's human, you say? Doctor Zora nods - yes.
NAZGUL: It's even uglier than the others. He pulls a covering aside and looks at Will's naked legs.
WILL: ( groggy ) Help me. I've got health insurance. Honest. His eyes close as he slips back into darkness. Nazgul looks at Doctor Zora.
NAZGUL: What is health insurance?
DOCTOR ZORA: Some sort of religion.? The Vet turns and makes an adjustment to the bladder. Another length of tubing snakes out of it and is attached by a needle to Aragorn's arm. It's his blood. Now we realize - this is the ape version of a blood transfusion.
NAZGUL: Do you think this'Il work?
VET: You can never tell with animals. Their bodies aren't as sophisticated as an ape's. Sometimes their blood fights with each other. Either way, you know really quick -they get up and walk around, or they're dead. The Vet turns a little tap - Aragorn's blood flows down the tube. It hits Will's vein.
DOCTOR ZORA: We've just spent an hour trying to save him -
DOCTOR ZORA: The animal's unique, my lord. At least we should look at his brain. Maybe it's possible to remove the frontal lobes without killing him. Imagine - a tame human!
NAZGUL: The doctor's only asking for a chance to experiment. The benefits would be enormous. A tame species of human could double food production, at last we could dam the rivers.
NAZGUL: It's just an animal, Ma-Gog.
ARAGORN: So you lived, then?
WILL: What did they do?
ARAGORN: They gave you blood. He holds up his bandaged forearm - Will realizes where it came from.
WILL: I hope you had a medical. Aragorn looks at him - confused. From a distance, the sound of horses WILL ( CONT'D ) What is this place?
ARAGORN: It was a slaughterhouse.
WILL: For horses?
ARAGORN: They use it for stables now. No - s different kind of animal. For humans. Will stares, taken aback. Aragorn starts to gather twigs from the corners of the cell.
WILL: Why haven't they killed you?
ARAGORN: They keep me ss bait. My name is Aragorn - He lifts his hand to Will - palm outwards. It's some form of greeting. Will returns it.
WILL: And will they?
ARAGORN: Not if they fear my anger. I was taken in summer and now winter's almost gone. Even the apes grow tired - soon they'll make me walk the Paths of the Will looks at Aragorn's eyes - they're fearless. The ornament glints on his chest. Will points at it -
WILL: what is it?
ARAGORN: It's called the Crescent of Light - it's the talisman of my rank.
WILL: Mithral is how we name it.. Will reaches his hand towards it -
ARAGORN: Mithral is how we name it.. Will reaches his hand towards it -
WILL: Can I borrow it? Aragorn recoils - this is the most precious thing in the world to him. His hand closes around the insignia -
ARAGORN: Who are you? What brings you to the valley of the tribes?
WILL: I meant you no harm. I'm looking for woman, one of my own kind. Do you know of people like me?
ARAGORN: Will nods his head, accepting it. Slowly he reaches his hand out -
WILL: If you want to get out of hare. I need the talisman. Aragorn. The two men look at each other. A beat - then Aragorn reaches up and unfastens it.
NAZGUL: Kill him. Kill him with the sword and with fire. Kill himl
WILL: Do you understand time.., what time is it? Aragorn looks at the shadows in the slaughterhouse -
ARAGORN: Seven hours since the rising of the sun.
WILL: Just after noon.
ARAGORN: Shouldn't we wait until night?
WILL: ( concentrating ) If I'm right, it's gonna be dark a lot sooner than you think. The nail is almost in the key-hole. Half an inch to go. a quarter. It slides off. Will curses and starts again -
THE SUN: beats down from a cloudleu sky. Drak and two huge Praetorian Guards - Max and Hannibal - come through a huge stone portico. It's another entrance to the Temple -one that opertl onto a central square. Orak and the two guards hurry across it. towards the slaughterhouu.
THE NAIL: at the end of the pole slides into the keyhole. Will - barely breathing in case it breaks his concentration - listens carefully. He moves the end of the pole. The nail turns.
DRAK: Something's wrong! ( turns to Max ) Get the dogs.
HANNIBAL: moves cautiously along the side one of the corrals, trying to see what's wrong with the horses. Behind him - a movement in the shadows. Sswhish. The sound of something slicing through the air. He turns - It's the side of Aragorn's hand. It chops hard into the ape's throat, shattering his larynx and blasting him into unconsciousness. He crumples to the ground. Aragorn and Will strip him of his weapons. Will starts to go but Aragorn tears a strip off both their shirts. He ties the fabric around the ape's What are you doing?
WILL: What are you doing?
ARAGORN: Watch - they're going to bring in the dogs.
THE DOGS: aren't really dogs at all - they're a much earlier ancestor. We call them wolves. There are two of them, on the end of heavy leather leashes. Their handlers have them in Will's cell, rubbing parts of the abandoned harnesses in front of their noses. The wolves take the scent. Drak watches as the handlers unfasten the leashes. The wolves leap out of the cell.
HANNIBAL: rises groggily to his feet, clutching his injured throat. He takes a few steps forward -Grrrr! He turns - the two wolves fly towards him. He tries to yell but the only sound he can make is a squeak. He runs - the fabric, unseen by him, trails from his ankles. The wolves pound after him. He glances over his shoulder. First one wolf - then the other - leaps. Fangs and claws glistening, they hit him in the back, hurling him to the ground. He writhes on to his back. One wolf tears at his ankles, the other goes for his throat. Rip! Blood sprays as the artery breaks.
WILL: This doesn't seem like the way out.
ARAGORN: We're not going out - not yet.
WILL: So what are we doing?
ARAGORN: ( softly ) We're going killing.
WILL: Killing?! Don't be stupid - Will jerks on Aragorn's arm, starting to haul him back. Aragorn throws off his hand -
ARAGORN: You do what you like! But I'm the Ranger of the Easterlings -I won't leave here until it's done. From behind them - the sounds of pursuit.
WILL: He starts to run. Together they disappear into the gloom ahead.
STRIDER: Two rules in life - never play cards with anyone called Doc and never, whatever else you do, turn your back on an ape. Will stares at him. Strider grins. Will smiles back -
WILL: Thanks. I'll remember that. He starts to search the sentry.
ARAGORN: What are you doing?
WILL: Looking for the keys.
ARAGORN: He saved our lives.
WILL: He saved our lives.
ARAGORN: He's an ape! Will shrugs himself free of Aragorn's hand -
WILL: You go and kill as many apes as you like - I'm setting this one free. Aragorn looks at him. A beat.
ARAGORN: ( softly ) It's not apes I'm going to kill.
STRIDER: Leave it. He knows what he's doing. Will turns and looks at him, questioning.
ARAGORN: It's done. We can go now. He turns and leads them back down the passageway.
THE WOLVES: There's five of them now, hunting through the slaughter-house in a pack. All around them we see the torches of the apes as they search the nooks and crannies. The horses whinny wildly as they catch the scent of the wolves. Will, Aragorn and Strider are crouched in a corner of the corral, smearing their bodies with horse manure.
STRIDER: The fresher the better. Cover everything -that's the only way you'll hide your scent. The wolves sniff the air, coming closer. Will, staring through the rungs of the coral, sees their gleaming eyes coming closer. He raises his crossbow, getting ready. The wolves stop. They raise their heads and look - the whole cavern is growing dark. A giant shadow falls across the doorway into the outside The horses rear and buck. The apes are staring - darkness is falling in the middle of the day. The wolves hackles rise in fear. They howl. Aragorn and Strider are cowering back
ARAGORN: What is it?
WILL: Come on! Now! He drags them forward and grabs hold of one of the horses.
DRAK: What is it?
PRIEST: And even now as sorrow has no end, we find comfort in the words of the Lord Jesus Christ. Did he not say unto Mark -"suffer the little children to come unto me, for they are the Kingdom of Heaven. Now and forever." Amen. The congregation - sad-eyed relatives and weeping parents - fill the pews.
CONGREGATION: Pall-bearers lift up the tiny coffins. The organ starts to play. A soloist - a tenor -steps to the side of the altar. He starts to sing the Latin hymn "Penis Angelicas". The haunting words of the hymn fill the cathedral. They carry over to -
DIAMOND: I'm sorry Luc - say that again.
DEMAUPASSANT: DEMAUPASSANT ( CONT'D ) ( kindly ) My fault, Billie - I rattle on too much. The result is - we've fixed the time frame. He hits the projector - the image of a fetus developing normally in the womb appears on the screen. deMAUPASSANT The fetus develops normally through the first trimester. Then it happens - about sixteen weeks and two days, everything falls apart. The whole chemical structure goes out of control - He flashes up another image - a fetus that is already aging remarkably. Once it starts, it's irreversible. If we're going to stop it, we've got to intercede here - He points at the slide of the normally developing fetus.
BOB: ( taking over ) There's a trigger - some major fucking switch gets turned. That's what I've been working on. It's definitely in the mDNA. There's a fragment of one chromosome I'm looking at - He flicks a switch on the video projector. A slide of a human gene, massively magnified, popl on to the screen.
DIAMOND: ( quietly ) Is it that bad? He stares at the floor. There's not even a hint of the former arrogance.
BOB: Someone's dropped us in the middle of the Louvre. We're blind men and they've told us to find the Mona Lisa. There's four miles of galleries end we've got five minutes to do it. That's how I feel -and that's when rm Diamond turns to deMaupassant.
DIAMOND: I'm sixty-two years old. I've seen us go from DC3s to landing on the moon. In my life I've won all the glittering prizes. I've always believed nothing was beyond the reach of Man, but I'll tell you honestly - this may never be unraveled. If it is, it won't be in my lifetime. He looks at them. Silence. There's nothing anyone can say. He starts to gather up his papers-
DEMAUPASSANT: I'm sixty-two years old. I've seen us go from DC3s to landing on the moon. In my life I've won all the glittering prizes. I've always believed nothing was beyond the reach of Man, but I'll tell you honestly - this may never be unraveled. If it is, it won't be in my lifetime. He looks at them. Silence. There's nothing anyone can say. He starts to gather up his papers-
DIAMOND: ( he turns ) ) You're certain - about the time, I mean?
DEMAUPASSANT: ( Nodding ) Sixteen weeks. How far along are you?
DIAMOND: Twelve weeks. They look at one another. The old man speaks gently -
DEMAUPASSANT: Good night, Billie.
DIAMOND: So - you're a little boy. It's funny - I think I knew. She reaches up and gently touches the image of his face.
DRAK: ( to himself ) Clever. you clever fucking animal.
NAZGUL: Drak. I was just saying - maybe it's a blessing.
DRAK: A blessing?
NAZGUL: Where there's one, there must be others. If we'd killed him, we might never find them.
DRAK: No - he's not stupid. But even dogs hunt in packs of seven. Every animal needs its kind. And when we find them - what then?
DRAK: Just like the tribes - burn them out of their holes, put them to the sword? I don't mind doing that - I like it - but it's never enough, is it? No matter how many we kill, every year they're still here. Why will it be any different with the Blue Eyes? What we need is a final solution. NAZGUL And where do we find that?
NAZGUL: It's a tiny colony farther out than even the northern frontier. Females and babies have been dying there. He turns to Drak - his eyes intense, very interested.
DOCTOR ZORA: We don't know what causes it- a virus probably. I'd hoped to complete our research before I came to you with my proposal. But, given the circumstances -
NAZGUL I: It's a brilliant idea. ( turns and smiles at her ) HORSES' HOOVES paw the ground. They're bound with cloth to stop them leaving a trail. It's night -the horses are tethered near a fire burning in the lee of a rock. Will and Strider have made camp - a hare roasts over the fire. Aragorn sits well apart - a silhouette in the moonlight - staring out into the forest, lost in his thoughts. Will and Strider look at him.
HORSES' HOOVES: paw the ground. They're bound with cloth to stop them leaving a trail. It's night -the horses are tethered near a fire burning in the lee of a rock. Will and Strider have made camp - a hare roasts over the fire. Aragorn sits well apart - a silhouette in the moonlight - staring out into the forest, lost in his thoughts. Will and Strider look at him.
STRIDER: He's their leader - he can never take his eye from the mountain. He has to do what he thinks is right.
WILL: ( hard ) By killing them?
STRIDER: Don't judge him, Will. I couldn't have done it. I wonder if you could? One of those women he just killed wes his daughter. Will reacts. He turns and stares at the silhouette. A long beat.
WILL: ( quietly ) We call it a Iobotomy. What other things have you people tried? He turns to face him. Strider shrugs. There's something about it - something almost evasive.
STRIDER: don't know if it's true.., my sister's mate works in the lab. He says Doctor Zora's working on some disease - Will comes towards him -
WILL: What sort of disease?
STRIDER: Of the children, I think - ape children.
WILL: How did they die, Strider? Old in the belly -is that how?!
STRIDER: Some of them. You know this disease? Will stares at him, taking it in.
WILL: ( softly ) So that's how it happened. Fuck you people.
STRIDER: They haven't done it yet. It may not work.
WILL: They will and it does. He turns end takes step towards the forest. He runs his fingers through his hair -WILL God help us.
STRIDER: That's funny - that's exactly what an ape would say. Will turns. He and Strider stare at one another - the ape and the man, both struck by the sudden commonality.
WILL: What about you, Strider - why were you in the cell?
STRIDER: I fought another ape. Nothing very heroic, I'm afraid - I was drunk. He fell badly, his head hit the branch of a tree going down. It broke his He pauses We're not like humans. An ape never kills one of his own. Never.
WILL: What's the punishment?
STRIDER: At the ceremony of summer rites, the high priest would curse me with death. I would have been left to die in the forest -no journey over the waterfall, no-one to say the sacred words. Without that, no ape can walk in the next world. You saved my life, Will and I'm grateful. But there's nothing I can do about my soul. I'm a dead ape walking. Strider stripe more meet off the hare. Will picks up a saddle and blanket and starts to make himself bed.
WILL: Yes - I knew.
STRIDER: WHO ARE YOU, WILL? I've come a long way, Strider - it's farther then I can explain.
WILL: I've come a long way, Strider - it's farther then I can explain.
STRIDER: I've heard stories - old apes tell them 'round the fire late at night - of strange lands where the creatures can tell the future. Is that where you're In a way.. yeah, it's something like that.
WILL: In a way.. yeah, it's something like that.
STRIDER: So what happens to it afl, to the world we've built? Tell me that.
WILL: It passes away. Strider stares at him through the firelight.
STRIDER: History remembers, though - it's passed on, what we did, I mean?
WILL: No, Strider - there's nothing, not a trace left behind. Strider thinks for a moment, then he smiles gently.
STRIDER: So it's just vanity then - what we believe, that the works of the ape will last forever?
WILL: Yes, it's vanity. But not just of apes, Strider -maybe of men, too. He turns and settles down on his makeshift bed. Strider - the food forgotten - stares out into the night. A million stars hang on a velvet Look down from them - in the vast blackness of the forest, one tiny lightthe flickering fire.
A RAINBOW: arches across the end of a tiny gorge. Dozens of streams cascade into pools, spilling over ledges and swirling into ponds. Aragorn leads Will and Strider along a hidden, path - a rock ledge that runs behind the The ledge widens into a large cave. Sunlight streams through a veil of cascading water. Aragorn looks around - something's worrying him.
ARAGORN: This is the Rainbow Tribe's cave. They should be here.
ARAGORN: ( softly ) Why such hurry? Suddenly he stops, listening. He looks at Strider -
STRIDER: I don't think so. Strider moves silently to the side of the cave. He picks up a crossbow.
ARAGORN: From the ridge above. Apes?
STRIDER: Scouts probably. He cocks the crossbow. Aragorn has picks up a bow and spear. He moves towards a cavern, signaling Strider to take a passageway. Will grabs a crossbow. Strider tosses him a chain mail vest - armor. They move off.
A CROSSROADS: of arches and stalactites. Will and Strider split apart. Will moves silently through the darkness, into a cavern. Through an archway he sees a shadow on the wall! He goes fast towards it -
DIAMOND: His eyes open - he's gasping for breath from the impact. He and Diamond look at one another. Strider reaches down and rips the arrow out of Will's chain mail armor. Diamond's shoulders sag with relief.
WILL: I'll explain later. He struggles to his feet and looks at Diamond -
DIAMOND: We did a lot of work. I guess I was wrong.
WILL: People have been wrong about a lot of things.
DIAMOND: How long have you?
WILL: All my life.
DIAMOND: Dream no more. You've done it. Like you said in your note - it was Doctor Robert Plant of UC Berkeley. WILL turns and looks out at the valley -
WILL: ( softly ) Yeah - I really have, haven't I? Diamond watches him. There's a shout from inside the cave -
ARAGORN: I thought they would leave word for their hunters. Kip-Kena has called a gathering of the Seven Tribes.
WILL: Two days' travel - at the Eagle's Nest. He looks out through the mouth of the cave - twilight is closing in.
ARAGORN: Two days' travel - at the Eagle's Nest. He looks out through the mouth of the cave - twilight is closing in.
DIAMOND: An ape civilization? You said there was a city.., what happened to it all?
WILL: You know what we've found of Aragorn's whole race? Seventeen bones, that's all. Anthropologists have discovered evidence of the apes - we call them skulls. Bones last a lot longer than civilizations.
DIAMOND: I guess there's a lesson in that.
WILL: Listen, Billie - the apes have discovered a disease. Diamond reacts. Will crouches down - in the dirt he scratches out a small chain of circles. It's a molecule.
DIAMOND: Woman. You said it was in the mitochondrial DNA - it has to be a woman. She reaches forward and scratches long hair on to the figure's head.
WILL: You're right. Sooner or later the apes find her. She doesn't look like the tribes but the apes don't care - she's human. So they give her the disease. She's different though - it doesn't work, or at least it doesn't seem to. It gets integrated into her. It's passed on, it mutates, it weaves its way into the mDNA. It lies there - a bomb waiting to go off. And then one day -
DIAMOND: After a hundred thousand years?
WILL: The planet's five billion years old. What's that to Nature? A blink of the Will throws the stick down on the ground.
DIAMOND: ( impressed ) A helluva theory, Doctor Plant.
WILL: Jesus, Billie! Four weeks? We've got a theory - that's all. We don't even know half the problems we're dealing with. You can't put a deadline on Science, Will? What about people? Isn't that what this is all about. I'm sorry - I thought there were children dying.
DIAMOND: Science, Will? What about people? Isn't that what this is all about. I'm sorry - I thought there were children dying.
WILL: Sure. Of course it's about that too.
DIAMOND: But then, you don't care muchabout people do you?
WILL: No - I guess I don't. Not for a long time. Ideas and knowledge are what matter. They're the shining ideals. That's the only way we progress.
DIAMOND: Progress to what? We're both children of our age, aren't we? We've grown up to believe the more we know, the more advanced we are. But what does that mean if we've forgotten the things of real value. You know the reason I came? It's got nothing to do with science or knowledge. I'm going to have a child -that's why I'm here. They look at one another.
WILL: We wouldn't last a day. We've got to keep moving, Billie. The apes are like Where are they now?
DIAMOND: Where are they now?
WILL: Right behind. I think Strider has some sort of tribal intuition. He says he can hear their hoof beats in his head. The first rays of dawn pierce the mist from the waterfall. Will and Diamond turn at a sound behind them - Aragorn is getting up.
ARAGORN: A SPARKLING RIVER winds through a beautiful valley. The two horses splash along the water's edge. Strider and Aragorn are mounted on one, Will and Diamond on the other. They turn a curve - Aragorn leads them out of the shallows and into the forest.
TRACKER: There's four of them, my Lord.
DRAK: Four? The Tracker points It a at of prints -
TRACKER: It's woman. Blue Eyes has a mate.
DRAK: Excellent. I look forward to meeting her.
DRAK: Malakai! Bolag! Two heavily-armed officers emerge from among the soldiers. With Drak they run for the wall. They leap up the rock face - their massive hands grabbing tiny ledges. Other apes follow them. They scramble up the wall with amazing speed.
KIP: It's the traveler! With a woman. The Lookout shields his eyes against the sun - the visitors ere coming The fool - he's brought an ape with himl He reaches for a bow but Kip's hand falls on his arm, stopping him.
LOOKOUT: The fool - he's brought an ape with himl He reaches for a bow but Kip's hand falls on his arm, stopping him.
KIP: Who's the other one, though? ( realizing ) He turns, yelling down to the platforms -
ARAGORN: The ape travels with me - treat him as a friend. Nobody argues with the Ranger. He stops in front of Kip. The young warrior starts to bow his head but Aragorn stops him. He puts out his arms - they Will crosses the bridge. Kip sees him. He grasps Will's arm in greeting -
KIP: You carry part of my spirit with you -I owe you my life. Welcome, Traveler.
WILL: Are the seven tribes here?
KIP: All except the Antelope. They hunt the plains far to the west - they have the longest journey.
WILL: Will they come?
KIP: Who knows - maybe the apes have found them. Nobody has seen them for many summers gone. Why?
WILL: I'm searching for someone - a young woman. She looks like us . ( he indicates Diamond ) ) I thought she might live with the tribes.
KIP: Is she a relative - was she born to your hearth?
WILL: To all of our hearths. My race reveres her. We think of her as the first woman. Without her. our lives are nothing.
KIP: ( nodding his head ) Women are of the spirit - we believe that. too. Mother Earth mates with the totems. Only through woman can their children walk the world.
WILL: Have you seen her?
KIP: You're sure? Perhaps some of the women have seen something?
WILL: You're sure? Perhaps some of the women have seen something?
KIP: She looks like you, you say? No offense, Traveler, but the women say you're the ugliest man they've ever seen. A woman that looks like you - I'm sure they would have talked about it.
WILL: They smile at one another.
KIP: I'm sorry I can't help. A torch flares below. Kip looks down into an adjoining cave. It's empty except for a group of men - all warriors - filing in. These are the leaders of each of the tribes.
ARAGORN: We've traveled without rest - there are soldiers a day behind. The ape says it's an army.
KIP: And there are more coming from the north. Five squadrons et least, the runners say. It's led by the old warrior Nazgul.
ARAGORN: Is that why you called the gathering?
KIP: Great things are moving, Ranger - An old man, battle-scarred and gray, leans forward. He is the leader of the A RAINBOW A stranger walks out of the west, the moon hides the sun, armies are on the march - come the new moon, nothing in Middle Earth will be the same. Others nod their heads in agreement.
A RAINBOW: A stranger walks out of the west, the moon hides the sun, armies are on the march - come the new moon, nothing in Middle Earth will be the same. Others nod their heads in agreement.
ARAGORN: I know you, Kip - you always were a fighter. What do the others say? warrior in a feathered cloak speaks -
EAGLE: It doesn't matter what we say - the Ranger has returned. We'll follow wherever he leads. Aragorn looks at their faces. Slowly he shakes his head -
ARAGORN: I'll walk the path Mother Earth has laid for me, but I'll walk it no more as Ranger. The leaders stare at him. Several start to object but he silences them with his hand -
ARAGORN: A man leads from his heart and winter has come early to mine. ( softly ) I took the life of my daughter - and some of your kinfolk with it. I did my duty -nothing more can be asked of I men. But now others must walk in my He walks forward, unfastening the Crescent of Light. He stops in front of Kip -
ARAGORN: If I should have had a son, I would have hoped for a man as fine as you. This is my last act as Ranger of the Easterlings- He reaches out and slips the Crescent of Light around Kip's neck.
WILL: They're going to war. They leave at dawn.
STRIDER: They'll be slaughtered.
WILL: They think if they leave the valley, their totems won't follow. Without them, they say they're dead anyway.
DIAMOND: We should go now. Will looks at her. She meets his gaze. Suddenly she realizes -
DIAMOND: Oh, nol We're not fighting someone else's war -
WILL: Listen to me -
DIAMOND: We've got four weeks, Willl Four weeks to find her. She's not here, so whet are we waiting for? Let's go! The tribes-people turn at the raised voices. Will takes Diamond's arm and guides her to a private corner -
WILL: Listen, Billie! We know the future - but if we beat the apes, they can't harm the woman.
DIAMOND: Beat the apes?! And say we don't - or say one of us gets captured. What then? Don't you understand? Four weeksi
WILL: Yeah, I understand - but those things aren't going to happen. We know things the apes can't even dream of. This is our world, Billie - men won it with their minds. All we need is knowledge and science. We've got them both. We can win!
DIAMOND: What are we going to do - dazzle them with calculus? This is an army, Will - you said it yourself. Storm-trooperst
WILL: Look - He bends and picks up s rock from the ground. He hands it to Diamond -
DIAMOND: It's strange, isn't it? Give s man s problem and the first thing he thinks about is weapons.
WILL: We're a frail species, Billea. It's only weapons that have made us bigger than we are.
DIAMOND: Or smaller.
WILL: It's the apes who are going to be a whole lot smaller after this. We can beat themi No more experiments - no more problem.
DIAMOND: ( quietly ) I hope your right, Will.
FIRES BURN: all over the eagle's nest, turning piles of timber into charcoal. The camp is a hive of activitycolumns of tribes-people make their way up from the valley carrying piles of sulfur rock; women and children sit in circles, pounding the saltpeter into dust. Will moves among the tribal leaders, watching as they measure and combine the elements in bowls. Strider sits apart, watching, not sure if the humans have lost their minds.
KIP: You make fire from rocks of the earth -what is this thing?
WILL: Kip turns to the others. They repeat the word, as if that will unlock its WILL ( CONT'D ) We've still got work to do. He turns and goes. The tribes-people, emboldened by their leaders, come closer. They draw back from Will as he makes his way through them. He comes face to face with Strider. The man and the ape look at one another.
STRIDER: Apes believe men are the devil's children. Maybe they're right. What have you done, Will - what have you unleashed on the world?
WILL: Nothing, Strider. The future, that's all.
STRIDER: I can't fight with you tomorrow, Will. To kill an ape in a brawl is one thing, but I can't go to war against my people.
WILL: ( kindly ) I never expected you to. Again they look at one another. Will turns and leaves.
DRAK: Apes - chargel The apes still on their horses hear his cry. They spur their mounts forward. The first of the cavalry reach -
THE SHORE: Boom. boom! More explosions rip the river bank to pieces.
THE FORD: Drak watches es I flight of arrows slam into the milling ranks of apes. Right in front of him, an arrow rips through the throat of the leader of the Praetorian Guard. Drak turns to Nazgul, yelling -
DRAK: The ones in the river - take themi Nazgul spurs his horse back across the ON THE SHORE Ape cavalry and infantry scramble up the river bank. Bam! They hear the charges go off - the hurl themselves down. Another volley of arrows scythes through them -
THE FORD: The ape infantry pour across the ford, charging over the bodies of their fallen comrades.
THE FOREST: Riderless horses, part of the ape cavalry, charge wildly through the trees. We tilt up - their riders have abandoned them and taken to the trees. The branches are thick with apes firing, cutting down groups of running THE ROCK PLATFORM Will and several tribesmen hurl camouflage aside revealing a long iron barrel wedged in the rocks. One of the warriors tilts it up, aiming it at the trees; another stokes pebbles and scraps of metal into the barrel. Will touches an ember to a fuse. Everyone dives for cover - Boom! The primitive cannon fires. The shrapnel hits the trees. Shredded apes, branches and leaves fall to the ground. Will and the warriors reload. Again they fire - but the charge is too big. The whole cannon breaks free of the rocks. It flies like a missile and smashes into the trunk of a tree. Timber!
ON THEGROUND: Apes are rushing forward. They hear the explosion. Several apes turn - the huge boulder, split into chunks, flies towards them. The apes scatter. Smashl The chunks knock apes aside like skittles. But there's more of them behind, spilling in to the gorge, over-running it
ANTELOPE: Instantly, the voices die.
STRIDER: What is it? Diamond doesn't answer - she tenses. In the milling crowd of brown bodies, she sees it again - a flash of gold. Its sunlight on blonde hair.
DIAMOND: She's here.., holy God - she's herel It's not a woman - it's a child! She grabs a rope ladder, ignores the rungs and slithers down it.
DIAMOND: What's your name? The girl's mother stares, amazed to see someone who looks like her child.
MOTHER: Her name is Aiv.
DIAMOND: ( Realizing ) Of course. My people have a name like that - "Eve" is how we say it. The mother nods - the sound seems to please her. Diamond puts out her arms and indicates the young girl. The mother smiles, giving her permission. Diamond puts her arms around Eve.
EVE: To keep you safe. She holds her tight. The mother catches Diamond's eye.
DIAMOND: To keep you safe. She holds her tight. The mother catches Diamond's eye.
MOTHER: Do you have children? Diamond shakes her head - no. The mother can't hide her disappointment.
DIAMOND: What's wrong?
MOTHER: I was hoping you had a son. Aiv's a sweet girl. She's the child of my heart. But the way she looks, nobody will want her as a mate. Before Diamond can answer there's a commotion outside the cave. She turns to look - Strider and tribes-people are running out into the daylight.
STRIDER: Horses! It's horses! Horses mean apesi Panic sweeps through the tribes-people. Women grab their children, young kids start screaming, old men and boys scramble for Diamond weaves through the flying mass of people. She swings up on to a platform beside Strider. He points - Coming into view on the mountain path - running and stumbling, dragging their wounded - are what's left of the Antelope warriors. Their women-folk cry out as they realize what has happened to their mates. The warriors race along the path and across the drawbridge. Nobody raised it when they left - Several old men and a couple of boys struggle now to do it. They haul on the ropes and pulleys. It starts to swing upwards - Here he comes - Drak! He's galloping hard at the head of his cavalry, battle scarred and bloodied. He sees the drawbridge starting to lift. He doesn't pause - he whips his horse into a thundering gallop. The bridge rises higher. Drak's horse leaps! It soars across the crevasse - the giddylng drop stretches out below - and lands on the lifting bridge. The men and boys stare in horror. Orak charges down on them. They back away -all except one boy, not even in his teens, who stands his ground. Swish! Drak's sword cleaves him from shoulder to waist. The other tribesmen run. Wham! The drawbridge falls back into place. The ape cavalry charge across it.
DRAK: Grab the female! Gray Beard is off his horse. Diamond runs towards him. He raises a Drak charges down on her from behind. He holds the harpoon at his shoulder. He aims at her legs. Diamond races on - her only thought, to save Eve. It'll never happen - she's as good as deadGray Beard's in front, aiming. Drak's right behind. He hurls the harpoon. Whoosh! Strider swings through the air. He clings to one of the rope ladders - it's like Tarzan, except he's an ape. He grabs Diamond by the scruff of the neck and yanks her out of the way. Drak's harpoon skims past them. Gray Beard stares in amazement at the woman flying through the air. But that's not his big surprise - with Diamond out of the way, the harpoon is flying straight at him. He screams as it rips into his throat.
WILL: ( softly, to himself ) I was so sure. He kneels and turns one of the bodies over. It's Kip - speared through the chest. A shaft of sunlight hits the Crescent of Light. It glints on his lifeless throat. Gently, he closes Kip's glassy eyes. sound behind him. Will hurls himself aside, grabbing for a weapon. He looks up -it's the Lookout, battle-stained and weary. Their eyes meet -
LOOKOUT: ( quietly ) You said we'd win. Will just nods - he knows.
WILL: What is this place?
LOOKOUT: It's called the Crossroads of the Fallen King - it's where our forefathers are laid to rest. It's sacred to us - anyone who's still alive will make their way here. They wade closer to the beach. In the firelight they see groups of tribesmen -survivors of the battle. Women and children - the lucky few who managed to flee the eagle's nest - are binding the warriors' wounds. They look up - everyone falls silent at the sight of Will. As he comes closer he recognizes a woman, sitting alone -
WILL: It's Kip's wife. She's come from
WILL: rm sorry about your mate. She says nothing - she just stares at him. Will keeps going -
KIP'S WIFE: I threw myself off a platform. I don't know what happened to anyone. Will nods. He gets to his feet and moves to the women near the fire. We don't hear what he says, but we know what he is asking. One after another they shake their heads - no, they know nothing of Diamond.
OLD MAN: It's half a day since the battle. Any that survived would be here by now - we are all that remains of the Seven Tribes. The Ranger himself died on the field. We must decide ourselves what to do. Silence for a moment. They have spent too long following a leader for discussion to come easily. Finally, a wounded warrior speaks -
WOUNDED WARRIOR: Like you say, Kip is dead. Maybe it's a sign -the Rangers have left Middle Earth forever. Perhaps it's telling us to do the same. A young woman - probably in her 20s - shakes her head.
YOUNG WOMAN: Leave the valley? This is where the eagles fly. This is their home. Nobody can live without their totem - we all know that!
LOOKOUT: Nobody can live with the apes eitherl If we stay here, we die. But if we travel beyond the Tower of the Moon, we've got a chance. Who knows - maybe our totems will follow us? There's a murmur of agreement. It grows louder, tribes-people nodding their THE BEACH Now we see what Will has been making - it's a boat made out of twigs and leaves. A tiny hull and a gaff-rigged mast. He leans forward and drops it in the water. He watches the current carry it away. Farther and farther it bobs out into the river -
THE BEACH: Now we see what Will has been making - it's a boat made out of twigs and leaves. A tiny hull and a gaff-rigged mast. He leans forward and drops it in the water. He watches the current carry it away. Farther and farther it bobs out into the river -
WILL: ( softly ) I'm sorry, Billie. I should have listened - it wasn't our war. All you wanted was a baby. He can't go on. He watches the tiny boat disappear around the knob of land.
STRIDER: It looks like someone made it.
DIAMOND: It's a boat - it's gaff-rigged. ( realizing ) Oh, Jesus. She plunges forward, wading as fast as she can.
WILL: ( softly ) I thought I'd lost you.
DIAMOND: I thought you were dead. They keep holding each other.
WILL: How did you find this place?
DIAMOND: Strider. His father was a tracker. We've been following a trail for hours. Will looks over her shoulder - Strider is wading towards them.
WILL: Thank you, my friend - thank you.
STRIDER: What did you expect? You would have done the same for me.
WILL: Some times when we want something so bad, we can take a thing and twist it in our head. You're sure about this, Billie?
DIAMOND: I'm pregnant, Will - I'm not crazy. She's not like them - she's a mutation. Evolution's always trying to improve on itself. It's turned out a child that can walk taller and run faster, one whose brain-pan holds a mind that can think laterally. I've seen her, Will. I've held her in my arms - she was us. Will looks at her. There's no doubt - he believes her.
WILL: You said she was with Drak.
DIAMOND: On a chain.
WILL: It's two days' march to the city. Was she wounded - can she make it?
DIAMOND: She can make it. ( a beat - she looks at him ) Before he can answer, the Old Man and several others come down the beach -
OLD MAN: It's decided - we're leaving the valley forever. ( turns to Strider ) Your people have won - the Seven Tribes of Middle Earth have been broken. Long may their spirits haunt you ( he turns back to Will ) You and your mate can travel with u but we've got misery enough to carry. Our hearth is not home to ny ape.
WILL: Then it's not home to us. The ape's better than any man I've known. The Old Man's lip curls in a sneer. He shrugs and walks away.
STRIDER: Go with them. Will - everyone needs their own kind. Will and Diamond newer almost simultaneously -
WILL: Of course we can't. ( to Will ) The city, Will. Will and Strider turn nd look at her - incredulous.
DIAMOND: Of course we can't. ( to Will ) The city, Will. Will and Strider turn nd look at her - incredulous.
WILL: We call it a city - it's more like a fortress, Billie. It can't be done.
DIAMOND: The three of you got out - everyone thought that was impossible too.
WILL: We were lucky. But that's the trouble with luck - it runs out. I don't want to be back in the city when it does.
DIAMOND: What about Eve - what do we do, just forget about her?
WILL: No. Maybe we can't stop the apes giving her the disease - but they'll have to turn her loose. That's the only way she can infect others. So we lay a plan and we find her. Then it's our job to stop her having children. If we can do that, it can't be passed on through the race. She shrugs That's the only thing I can think of.
DIAMOND: How long will that take - less than twenty-five days ?
WILL: DIAMOND So what of my child? We have to face it - you're going to lose it. She turns away, trying to keep her emotions in check. Will comes to her side -
DIAMOND: Whose, Will - whose children? She looks at him. He meets her gaze. A beat.
WILL: guess that's your call.
DIAMOND: What sort of father would you make? You told me once the only thing that matters is knowledge. That's wrong. Science and technology can only take you so far - in the end it's our humanity that maners. That's what makes us great. You're a wonderful scientist, Will -but what sort of person are you? What would you do if it was your child? She looks straight into his eyes. Finally he answers. Softly -
WILL: I don't know how to do it - not the humanity part, that's easy compared to getting into the city. I just don't know. He picks up a stick and starts to scratch out a rough map on the ground.
STRIDER: There's one place that's not. Both Diamond and Will turn to him. He takes the stick -
WILL: Maybe there is a way.across the river, I mean.
DIAMOND: Will turns to her -
WILL: You'll love it - there's barely any science to it at all.
DIAMOND: We're going? Is that right - we're going!? Their eyes meet and hold. He smiles at her.
THREE SILHOUETTES: travel fast along a high ridge. The sun - a fiery disc - rises right behind them. We recognize their physiques - Will in the lead, then Diamond and Strider. As they cross the face of the sun, we dissolve to -
LIGHTS TWINKLE: on the buildings and terraces of the apes' city. Will and his two comrades are on a bluff, looking down. The sound of music and laughter drifts towards them on the night air. Suddenly a huge tongue of flame shoots out of a stone chimney.
STRIDER: They've started up the furnace. ( softly ) Let the games begin.
DIAMOND: What games?
WILL: The apes kill their prisoners for sport. The furnace takes care of the Diamond - sickened by it - turns to look at Will. Already he's heading off, leading them down nrrow trail.
THE RIVER: races by just below and pours over the Falls of No Return. Whack! The arrow buries itself in the trunk of a massive tree standing on the bank.
WILL: You first. We'll be right behind. Diamond scrambles up on to a rock platform and grabs hold of the rope. She looks across the riverthe moonlight spills through the wind-blown spray; the roaring water rushes by; the rope hangs like a thread. There's fear on her face -
DIAMOND: It sure as shit ain't Kansas, is it?
WILL: Diamond throws herself forward. Her feet leave the platform. Hand over hand she goes - out across the river. Will watchel for a moment then launches himself - his hands wrap around the Strider slings his crossbow over his shoulder and jumps. The line bows under his weight. Diamond'l feet drop closer to the water. She looks down - the mass of black water, flecked with foam, rushes past. Will looks ahead - Diamond is almost lost in flurries of spray. She's dripping wet, hauling herself forward - The sound of the Falls is deafening. Right below her, a huge, swirling "hole" opens up. It's a whirlpool. She starts to swing across it. Joltl
WILL: Go! Billie - go! She doesn't seem to hear. Her eyes are wide with fear - staring down, down into the whirlpool's bottomless well.
WILL: She doesn't react. Strider watches as Will tries to catch up. The rope is swaying so much it's agonizingly slow. Diamond stares at a huge log spinning down into nothingness. The whirlpool seems to be swallowing everything, even the moonlight -
GUARD: ( calling ) The other guard joins him. They peer through the night at the spray rising from the Falls. They see it again - above the river, a flash of light on The keep watching. An eddy of wind clears the mist for a second. They see Strider going hand over hand along the rope, moonlight glinting on his ON THE SHORE Another strand of the rope breaks. We follow it as it unravels - past Diamond and Will. Before we get to Strider it stops - a section of the rope is so badly frayed it can't go any farther. It's going to break any moment. Screech! A siren wails.
STRIDER: They've seen usl Will looks up-river to the bridge. Through a hole in the mist he sees ape guards pointing and yelling. A whole squadron runs to join Diamond throws herself forward - she makes the shorel Will and Strider give it everything they've got. Strider's first hand passes the frayed section. He's following it with his second - Snap! The whole rope breaks. Will - closest to the shore - plunges into the ripping current. But at leaIt he's clinging to the rope with both hands. Strider's in the water hanging on to the end of the rope by the fingers of one paw. Will turns and reaches for him.
STRIDER: We'll both die. Let gol Will shakes his head - no. Hanging on to the rope one-handed, the current tearing at his body, he tries to haul Strider in. Whizz! An arrow flies past, just missing them, and plunges into the water. The apes on the bridge are firing.
WILL: The sacred words, Strider - what are the words?!
STRIDER: "In the beginning.
WILL: 'In the beginning was the word and the word wes God.'
STRIDER: ( in wonder ) You know the words?
WILL: You'll walk in the next world, Strider.
STRIDER: How do you know?
WILL: I've seen the future, haven't I? Strider smiles at him - a smile of perfect peace.
STRIDER: Good-bye Will. Take care of Billie. He twists Will's last finger free. He drops - the swirling river carries him away. Will is close to tears, but he won't let himself cry. Two more arrows sizzle past -
WILL: And the word was God. Yea, though I walk through the valley of death, I will fear no evil. Strider spins down the river, through the spray and foam.
KIP'S WIFE: We thought you were dead.
ARAGORN: Hunted, but not dead. A dozen of us were driven back in the battle - He indicates his men. They are coming forward, greeting the survivors. The Young Woman sees her mate - she cries out. They hold each other.
KIP'S WIFE: ( softly ) There is no eagle's nest. Aragorn stares at her, not wanting to believe it.
OLD MAN: There is no-one else, Aragorn - you are the Ranger.
ARAGORN: ( shaking his head ) No. We must all follow the trail we think best. You've decided yours. For me I'll go to the city of the apes and take what revenge I can. I'll go alone - but like the traveler, I think death will be the only thing I find OLD MAN Then it will find us, too. Warriors follow their Ranger. That's always been the way of it in Middle Earth.
OLD MAN: Then it will find us, too. Warriors follow their Ranger. That's always been the way of it in Middle Earth.
ARAGORN: But nothing's the same now. Think of the women-folk. What will become of KIP'S WIFE You're right - there's so few of us now, nothing is the same. You must allow the women to follow, too. ARAGORN But women can't fight. KIP'S WIFE Women have never been allowed to fight. That doesn't mean they All the women nod their assent. The men smile, agreeing. Everyone waits for Aragorn to decide. A beat - then he nods his head and smiles. The tribes-people start to cheer. The Lookout steps forward. From out of the folds of his fur, he takes the Crescent of Light. All of the tribe stare at it.
KIP'S WIFE: You're right - there's so few of us now, nothing is the same. You must allow the women to follow, too. ARAGORN But women can't fight. KIP'S WIFE Women have never been allowed to fight. That doesn't mean they All the women nod their assent. The men smile, agreeing. Everyone waits for Aragorn to decide. A beat - then he nods his head and smiles. The tribes-people start to cheer. The Lookout steps forward. From out of the folds of his fur, he takes the Crescent of Light. All of the tribe stare at it.
LOOKOUT: I found it on the battlefield. There were those who said the Rangers had left Middle Earth forever - I didn't know what to do with it. He hands it to Aragorn. The whole tribe watches as the proud man once again ties the talisman of his rank around his neck.
ARAGORN: Douse the fire. The Seven Tribes are going to war.
DIAMOND: You can't go on, Will - not like this.
WILL: What about the baby?
DIAMOND: I'll keep going - I'll try and get Eve.
WILL: Alone? Don't be ridiculous - He starts to haul himself to his feet. His face twists in pain - he has to Look at you - you can barely walk. He puts out his hand, needing I boost up.
DIAMOND: Look at you - you can barely walk. He puts out his hand, needing I boost up.
WILL: If I can just get up - help me. Diamond shakes her head - no. They look at one another.
DIAMOND: You've done enough - more than anyone else could. You're one of the finest I've ever known - but it's over, Will. You're going to have to wait. Now it's my turn - She grabs her weapons and starts to leave. Will makes it to his feet -
WILL: Billie!She's almost through the tangled roots.
DIAMOND: Where was that - Berkeley, Will? She turns and looks at him. He nods his head - yes.
WILL: I knew I'd found the chemical key. I was working with three young researchers. One of them was a woman called Ali Conoily. We were engaged. They were the ones that went into the tanks. I didn't know as much as I thought I did. They died in there.
DIAMOND: Why didn't you go, Will?
WILL: We all wanted to. It was a great adventure. Wa drew lots for it. I should never have agreed, but we were young - and like the young we thought life would last forever.
DIAMOND: Robert Plant died too, didn't he - in a way?
WILL: The experiment was unauthorized. There was an inquiry. They said the theory had no basis. 'Ludicrous" was a word they used. My career had gone up like a rocket. It came down like the stick. I couldn't find work anywhere
DIAMOND: "Will Robinson" - that was your joke, I guess. You were Lost in Space, were Yeah, but I never realized it'd be so appropriate. They sort of smile at one another.
WILL: Yeah, but I never realized it'd be so appropriate. They sort of smile at one another.
DIAMOND: Give me your hand, Will. She helps him to his feet.
THE STABLES: The sound of the crowd is much louder here but still we don't see them. The prisoners from the Eagle's Nest are crowded into the corrals. One of the gates is thrown open. Three ape guards enter. They push the tribes-people aside and grab a 12-year old boy. His mother clings to him, screaming. One of the guards drags her off and they haul the boy out of the AN ARENA -like a small bullring - in the center of the stables. Now we see the crowd - apes, all males, sit in the bleachers. They roar as a door is opened and the young Tribe-Boy is pushed into the ring. He looks around the arena - yelling, screaming apes. Terror on his face. An even louder roar goes up. The Boy turns - The Teenage ape steps out of a tunnel, the ochre markings on his face like war-paint, the blood barely dried on his forehead. He carries spears and a One of the apes throws a couple of captured human weapons down to the Boy. The Teenage ape moves in on him. He is a warrior now - this is going to be his first kill.
AN ARENA: -like a small bullring - in the center of the stables. Now we see the crowd - apes, all males, sit in the bleachers. They roar as a door is opened and the young Tribe-Boy is pushed into the ring. He looks around the arena - yelling, screaming apes. Terror on his face. An even louder roar goes up. The Boy turns - The Teenage ape steps out of a tunnel, the ochre markings on his face like war-paint, the blood barely dried on his forehead. He carries spears and a One of the apes throws a couple of captured human weapons down to the Boy. The Teenage ape moves in on him. He is a warrior now - this is going to be his first kill.
A TERRACE: Drak is alone, walking a high ridge. He stops, looking down on the twinkling lights. The city is virtually deserted but Drak doesn't move - he's uneasy, troubled by something he can't put a name to.
DOCTOR ZORA: Is the girl animal ready?
VET: That must be Zors with the blood. One of the guards goes and unbolts the door. He recoils - it's Will. Sswhack! He fires the first bolt from a double-barreled crossbow. It takes the guard in the chest. He and Diamond dive into the room. Eve starts hollering. The second guard is wheeling, crossbow rising. He rifle-butts Diamond across the head. Her weapon goes flying. The guard is aiming. Will is on the floor, tumbling. Barely time to aim, on his back, firing overhead, he shoots - Whack! Bullseye. The arrow hits the guard dead in the heed. The Vet grabs the first guard's fallen crossbow. He aims at Will. Diamond screams a warning but there's nothing Will can do - he's struggling to reload, one-handed because of his wounds. Diamond - unarmed - scoops the red-hot syringe off the bench. The Vet reaches for the trigger. Diamond leaps forward. She drives the syringe into his chest. The Vet stands goggle-eyed. Diamond must have found his heart - a torrent of blood pours down the clear tube. It spills on to the floor. The Vet topples forward. Slash! Slash! Will cuts throughthe straps that tie Eve to the table.
A TORCH: is ripped from a bracket. It's Drak.. He shines it down into a stone well. The flame splits the darkness. Floating in the water at the bottom of the well is an ape guard -dead, an arrow through his throat.
APES: Kill! Kill! Kill! The Boy stares up - the Teenage smiles and raises his sword. Shriek! The alarm sounds. Everything freezes. Then officers are on their feet, yelling orders. Ape soldiers grab their weapons, heading for the The Teenage ape looks around, robbed of his moment. The Boy sees his chance. He raises his spear and drives it deep into the ape's groin. He staggers and falls - on top of the Boy. The apes pour out of the arena. The siren carries over to -
A COURTYARD: at the back of the Hall of Learning. It's deep in shadow. From behind they hear the sound of pounding feet. Will looks around, not sure which way to go. He glances across a terrace - the doors to the stables fly open. The ape warriors charge out.
WILL: Can you ride? Diamond nods her head - yes. He thrusts Eve into her hands -
DIAMOND: What are you going to do?
WILL: Delay them. Now go, Billie. Go!
NAZGUL: That's strange - why does Drak need the Flame? Suddenly he realizel. He turns, screaming up at the apes controlling the NAZGUL ( CONT'D ) Stopl Take it backl
THE PRISONERS: are shackled in the corrals. They see Diamond running out of the shadows towards them. She tossel them the keys -
DIAMOND: Arm yourselves. Find Will - he needs youl She turns and goes. The prisoners start to unlock the chains.
EVE: smiles as Diamond races out of the shadows, sweeps her up and keeps IN THE ARENA The Teenage ape and the Boy lie where they fell, their spilt blood staining the dust. The Boy's mother scrambles over the deserted bleachers and goes to her son. She drags off the ape. Her son's eyes are closed, his arms lacerated, his chest wounded and crusted with blood. She stares at him - he doesn't move. She starts to sob. The Boy's eyes flicker open. They look at one another. The motheY gathers him into her arms. He's alive! He's alive! The sound of a horse. The mother turns, fearful. She looks across the arena, through a railing -
WILL: IN THE SQUARE Drak gallops forward. He raises weapon - a shoulder-mounted harpoon. He aims -
CITY STREET: Diamond's horse flies down a street - a high terrace towers on one side, a row of burning buildings on the other. The road turns right. She swings around it - apes! A platoon of them right in front of her. She screams at Eve -
DIAMOND: Hold on! She throws herself aside, pulling on the reins. The horse spins in a U-turn, grazing past a burning building. Diamond gallops back the way she Crash! The wall of a burning building in front of her collapses. Blazing beams block the road. The horse shies away. Diamond wheels him around - The apes race into the road. She looks around desperately - she's trapped. She grabs Eve and awingl her onto the saddle behind her - she'll be safer She spurs the horse forward and crouches Iow in the saddle - she's going to charge straight through the apes. They drop to one knee - the firing position - and raise their weapons. A dozen crossbowl aim straight at There's no way out - she flies towards them. Whizzl The sound of arrows. But it's not the apes - they go down like nine-pins. Diamond looks up - Aragorn has arrived! Backlit by the rising sun, the men and women of the Tribes are pouring volley after volley into the apes. Nobody fires better than Kip's Wife. Diamond leaps the horse through the dead and dying apes and turns down the stands on a terrace, his cloak blowing in the wind, his one cruel eye blazing with anger. Flanked by two ape warriors, he looks down on the burning buildings. The freed prisoners are waging a pitched battle outside the stables. Ma-Gog sees Will - he's running along the rooftops, leaping from one building to the next. Ma-Gog points at him, yelling at apes in the streets below -
ARAGORN: For my people! It takes Ma-Gog in the gut. His one eye bulges. Aragorn rips the spear out
WILL: Behind you! Aragorn - behind!
DIAMOND: and Eve fly down charred street .They head towards a large open square.
EVE: Diamond leaps the horse over a charred wagon abandoned on the road. Drak loses her in his sights. He follows her over the wagon.
DRAK: aims the harpoon. He's got Eve end Diamond, one behind the other, in his A bargain - two for the price of onel
DRAK: A bargain - two for the price of onel
WILL: Keep your hands off her, you dirty ape. The jaws lock clean around Drak's waist, plucking him off the saddle and lifting him up into the air. He's still got the harpoon. He sees Will at the control. He swings the barrel round - Will hits a switch. Wrong one - nothing happens. Drak's got him in his sights. His finger finds the trigger - Will throws another switch. The jaws start to close! Drak tries to pull the trigger - he can't, his body is twisting. The jaws are crushing him! He musters all of his strength and tries to fire. He and Will look straight at one another. A beat. Drsk's finger starts to slide off the trigger -
DIAMOND: If nothing else, we helped the tribes take back their valley.
WILL: Our valley, too Billia. She looks at him - questioning.
DIAMOND: A small point. But give me some credit. I'm a scientist - I knew that.
WILL: ( in wonder ) But you came anyway.
DIAMOND: That was love.
WILL: For the baby? She shakes her head.
DIAMOND: For the both of you. They stare into each other's eyes. They kiss.
WILL: it worked.
WILL: She nods her head then grimaces with pain as another contraction starts.
THE CAVE: Will and Eve help Diamond. She comes out of the cave, still holding the baby. It's magic hour - they stand on a rock ledge, looking at the ocean washed with color from the setting sun. We see what Will was building. It's sort of like a sculpture - just the head and crown of the Statue of Liberty. Diamond smiles. She looks at him, wondering why -
WILL: The baby starts to cry. Will puts one arm each around Diamond and Eve. We pull back from them - high up into the stars. The baby's cry carries over. We see earth rise. In all this nothingness - life. Writers : Terry Hayes
