FIRST DRAFT: in association with: July 10, 1990
SUNSET: BLACK, ROBED FIGURE almond eyes. He howls at the sun. His voice ECHOES across the sky. The Moslem call to prayer. Hundreds of feet below his tower, a mud-walled city of minarets and mosques. A human ants' nest. Scurrying to their devotions.
INTERROGATOR: He says you stole his bread.
PETER: It is a lie. I caught him stealing ours.
INTERROGATOR: Cut off the infidel's hand.
ROBIN: No!. I took the bread.
PETER: That's not true.
ROBIN: They're not interested in truth. You are too weak, Peter. You would not live through it. The Interrogator stares into Robin's eyes.
INTERROGATOR: Sacrifice for the weaker? How noble. As you wish. Cut off this one's hand as well!. But He indicates an Arab prisoner, who is dragged forward. His struggling hand is laid on the executioner's block.
INTERROGATOR: Show them the courage of Allah. The prisoner's face braces for the pain. A red-hot scimitar flashes down. The hand flips into a basket. Robin is next. His composure fails. He flops to his knees, crying. The Interrogator laughs. The jailers unlash the thongs on Robin's hand. They stretch it out, forcing it down. Robin goes limp, sobbing. Peter catches his eye. Robin winks. The scimitar. Drawn from the coals. Spitting flame. Arcs down. Robin is suddenly galvanized.
ROBIN: And this is English courage. He hurls his holders aside. Swings upward, driving his fast into the executioner's throat. Grabs the sword. Slash. His thongs melt like butter. A jailer leaps at him. Steaming, the scimitar slices into the man's chest. Despite his bindings, Peter wrestles the Interrogator. Knife pressed to his throat, Peter is forced against the furnace. At the last second, he flips the man into the fire. Screaming.
PETER: That's for five years of hell.
ROBIN: You speak English?
SARACEN: The king's own. Set me free.
PETER: No, Robin.
SARACEN: For pity's sake. Mine is a sentence of death. Robin sidesteps, propelling a guard into a pit.
PETER: Don't trust him. Two more guards attack, yelling fury. Robin eyes the curved scimitar.
ROBIN: What I would give for an English sword. This is a pruning hook. A guard swings at him with a giant axe. Robin slashes. shears the axe handle in two.
ROBIN: Hmm! Not bad. He runs the man through. Peter loses his sword. His opponent moves in for the kill. Peter grabs tongs from the fire and smolders his opponent with a backhand. Commotion outside. RAISED VOICES and RUNNING FEET.
SARACEN: Free me and I will show you a way Why should we trust you?
ROBIN: Why should we trust you?
SARACEN: If you don't, you are dead men.
ROBIN: He makes a point. The door bursts open. More guards rush in.
ROBIN: A good point. He slashes the man free.
PETER: Whatever blood is in his veins, he does not deserve to die here.
ROBIN: Whatever blood is in his veins, he does not deserve to die here.
SARACEN: This way! He beckons them to the back. A hidden door leads into a INT. SEWERS - NIGHT Saracen leads. A snake lashes out for his face. Robin lops off its head.
SARACEN: You are fast, my friend.
ROBIN: Five years I've waited for the smell of free air. That makes a man fast. Guards drop down from above, carrying torches. Blocking the way.
SARACEN: You will need to be yet faster. A narrow opening to their left. they splash through. Half running, half crawling in the dank water. Fire arrows land around them. The orange smoke is choking.
SARACEN: Poison air. Hold your breath. Flames illuminate the walls, alive with a loathsome mass of crawling slime. Peter falls. A pursuer descends on him, thrusting a blazing torch at his face. The Saracen intercepts the blow. Grabs the man's neck, SNAPPING it with one mighty twist.
PETER: ( coughing ) Thanks. I misjudged you.
SARACEN: Save your breath. Gasping for air, they find the tunnel veers steeply down- ward. A slippery, granite tube. Losing purchase, they slide headlong. Sharp, rusted spikes jut out from the walls ahead. Robin grabs at the walls to break the fall. No use. They're picking up speed. He turns his sword crossways, bracing it against the sides of the tunnel, as a brake. Sparks fly. The sword cuts into Robin's chest. but it Allah be praised.
SARACEN: Allah be praised.
ROBIN: Amen, brother. A bloodcurdling scream. A pursuing guard tumbles down the sewer chute. The three men press themselves against the wall. The man hurtles by. is impaled on the A draft of fresh air from the roof of the tunnel. Using the spiked guard as a ladder, Robin climbs. Removes a EXT. ARAB STREET - NIGHT mounted soldiers thunders right over him. he reappears. All clear. They're outside the prison wall. Robin helps Peter up.
ROBIN: God willing, we may now be safe.
ROBIN: Come, Peter. We must hurry. Raising his sword, Peter faces the oncoming soldiers.
PETER: It is mortal. Leave me.
ROBIN: Hold on to my shoulder. Peter shakes him off.
PETER: My mother. my little sister. Tell them I love them. Tell them I died a free Englishman. Robin looks despairingly to the Saracen.
SARACEN: His wound is by the heart. We cannot save him. Robin knows it's true. Peter pulls an insignia ring from a hidden pouch in his clothes. Thrusts it into Robin's Take this to my sister. Swear you will protect her for me. Swear it, Robin!
PETER: Take this to my sister. Swear you will protect her for me. Swear it, Robin!
ROBIN: ( reluctantly ) I swear it.
PETER: For England. He fells the first Arab. The Saracen pulls Robin away.
SARACEN: Come now! Do not fail your friend. Make his sacrifice an act of honor. They vanish into the night. Fighting like a man pos- sessed, Peter is swallowed in a sea of enemy soldiers.
ROBIN: Farewell, friend. God speed you on your way.
SARACEN: Our way is together. With the speed of Allah.
ROBIN: I go to England.
SARACEN: Then I go to England.
ROBIN: England? Why?
SARACEN: You saved my life. I must stay with you until I save yours.
ROBIN: Go your own way. I relieve you of your obligation.
SARACEN: Only Allah can do that.
ROBIN: And if I don't want you?
SARACEN: You have no choice. unless you think you can kill me.
SARACEN: My name is Aslan.
ROBIN: Robin of Locksley. You know a short route to England, Aslan?
KENNETH: My Lord! Help me. He's bleeding from a face wound. Another man grabs him from behind. Locksley's craggy-faced retainer, DUNCAN. Older than his master, but still strong, he holds Kenneth You must wait. I am sorry you were disturbed, Master.
DUNCAN: You must wait. I am sorry you were disturbed, Master.
KENNETH: ( high anxiety ) My Lord, please!
LOCKSLEY: It is alright, Duncan. You are Kenneth of Cowfall? The peasant falls to his knees.
KENNETH: They've taken my Gwen. My Who has taken her?
LOCKSLEY: Who has taken her?
KENNETH: Men on horses. In masks. We tried to stop them. My son is EXT. LOCKSLEY CASTLE - NIGHT Steam pours from the nostrils of a black charger. Lord Locksley mounts, in armor. Duncan attempts to detain You cannot go alone, Master. Let me ride for help.
DUNCAN: You cannot go alone, Master. Let me ride for help.
LOCKSLEY: That may be too late. Kenneth, lead the way. He kicks his horse into motion.
DUNCAN: Master, stay! There is an evil moon tonight.
LOCKSLEY: Good will overcome, Duncan. Trust in that. Duncan looks up. Crosses himself. Dark clouds race across the moon.
KENNETH: They came this way, my Lord.
LOCKSLEY: Onward then. What is this place?
KENNETH: Nearby the Gregor Caves. Locksley reacts a hint of fear. They move on. Ahead, the hillside glows, rimmed in eerie light. Strange primitive CHANTS, wafted on the wind. Locksley ties his nervous horse to a tree. Parting undergrowth, Kenneth creeps forward. Cries out. He's face to face with the maggot-eaten skull of a goat. Beyond it, a gruesome host of half-skinned human skulls, all arranged on stakes. Some male, others with rotting female tresses, staring eyelessly into the night. Kenneth turns to run. A hand grabs him.
LOCKSLEY: Steady, man. They are to dissuade the faint of heart. Think of From the crest of the rise, they peer down into the craggy valley. A cave opening, ablaze with flames leers at them like the mouth of hell. Before the cave, a circle of stones. A miniature Stonehenge. A medieval orgy. Men and women in masks and loose robes. Dancing. Drinking. Reveling. Pure carnality. Lord Locksley and Kenneth watch in horror. Faces ashen.
KENNETH: I trusted we were rid of such evil a century ago. An unearthly SCREECH. A creature leaps into the circle of stones. Grotesque gargoyle head, horns, fur-covered arms and legs. A living Hieronymous Bosch DEMON. Its clawed hands slash across a reveler's back, drawing blood in vicious streaks. The creature tastes the blood. The reveler is ecstatic.
LOCKSLEY: I trusted we were rid of such evil a century ago. An unearthly SCREECH. A creature leaps into the circle of stones. Grotesque gargoyle head, horns, fur-covered arms and legs. A living Hieronymous Bosch DEMON. Its clawed hands slash across a reveler's back, drawing blood in vicious streaks. The creature tastes the blood. The reveler is ecstatic.
KENNETH: ( petrified ) Is it the devil?
LOCKSLEY: If it is, I have some Christian steel that will test his hide. He draws his sword. A crucifix sculpted into the hilt. A girl is dragged from the cave. Kenneth buries his Kenneth nods. The Demon shrieks, dervishing around GWEN, who is carried onto the central plinth stone. A pagan altar, the shape of an elephant's head with its trunk raised. A masked figure stands at the head of the altar. The high priest of the dark rite. The girl's body shudders as blood-red liquid is forced down her throat. The Demon's voice is husky and hideous.
LOCKSLEY: Kenneth nods. The Demon shrieks, dervishing around GWEN, who is carried onto the central plinth stone. A pagan altar, the shape of an elephant's head with its trunk raised. A masked figure stands at the head of the altar. The high priest of the dark rite. The girl's body shudders as blood-red liquid is forced down her throat. The Demon's voice is husky and hideous.
DEMON: Come, my virgin flower. Hypnotized by the creature's voice and snake-like move- ments, Gwen stretches herself out. A single beam of sunlight slices through the mist, like a laser. The first light of the rising sun, it strikes directly on the altar, tracking down towards the girl's heart. The Demon's raised talons close in on the white flesh of her neck. Gwen's eyes are open wide, in a trance. The crowd of revelers encircle the plinth. Awed anticipation. A warrior's yell! Sword raised, Locksley THUNDERS in on his CHARGER. The terrified crowd parts. The Demon screams like a banshee.
DEMON: Kill him! Kill him! The followers throw themselves at Locksley. He beats them off. The high priest issues orders to armed guards, who run to intercept. One aims a spear. Locksley hacks the shaft in half. Cuts men down left and right. Reaches the altar stone.
LOCKSLEY: Gwen! Up, girl, up! Gwen shakes off her trance. The Demon launches itself at Locksley. Talons rip flesh from his face. With all his strength, Locksley hurls the creature down.
LOCKSLEY: In the name of God! His broadsword swings in a mighty arc. Slices across the gargoyle's skull. Clean through half the face. Impossibly, the demon rolls back to its feet.
LOCKSLEY: The SHERIFF OF NOTTINGHAM. Powerful build, black beard, cruel intensity in every feature.
NOTTINGHAM: You are an unwelcome surprise, The King shall hear of this, I think not. Locksley is surrounded. One by one the men reveal their faces. Locksley backs up in shock, recognizing them.
LOCKSLEY: The King shall hear of this, I think not. Locksley is surrounded. One by one the men reveal their faces. Locksley backs up in shock, recognizing them.
NOTTINGHAM: I think not. Locksley is surrounded. One by one the men reveal their faces. Locksley backs up in shock, recognizing them.
LOCKSELY: God help us.
NOTTINGHAM: One day all England will worship with us.
LOCKSLEY: The crone spits venom in his face.
DEMON: I am Mortianna. You will die with my name on your lips. Locksley's agonized cry fills the valley. On the hill- side, Kenneth averts his eyes. Turns to run. Five masked figures block his way.
ROBIN: Home. Thank you, Lord. Aslan steps from the boat, sniffing the air. The French sailors keep their distance from him. Robin takes his My friend, you have escorted me home. I beg you to free yourself of your vow. Return with the boat. I know how heavy your heart must be, this far from your family and native land.
ROBIN: My friend, you have escorted me home. I beg you to free yourself of your vow. Return with the boat. I know how heavy your heart must be, this far from your family and native land.
ROBIN: I thought you'd say that. He nods to the sailor, who swings the club down. The Saracen sidesteps, grabs the man's arm and flips him into the surf. He turns a cold stare on Robin.
ASLAN: No man controls my destiny. Especially not one who attacks downwind and stinks of garlic. Robin laughs. The Saracen remains intense.
ASLAN: If our positions were reversed, I would have done the same. Only I would have succeeded. He smiles broadly. Robin claps him on the shoulder.
ROBIN: Come, Aslan. By nightfall we will celebrate your honor when we dine with my father.
GISBORNE: You owe the sheriff three bushels of flax.
FANNY: You starve us. First the drought, now you take what food we have For starving people, you look fat enough.
GISBORNE: For starving people, you look fat enough.
SOLDIER: ( emerging from He's not here, sir. None but the woman and children.
GISBORNE: ( to Fanny ) Where is your mate? The man they call Little.
FANNY: He died last winter.
GISBORNE: Is that so? We hear he is very much alive. Hiding out in the forest. He probably ran away to escape your scolding tongue. The soldiers join in his laughter. Incensed, Fanny pounds her fist on his legs. Gisborne kicks her down.
FANNY: Norman swine! A BOY of 12 springs from nowhere, thrusting a hay fork at Gisborne's throat.
FANNY: No, Wulf! Don't! 'Twill only make it worse. Wulf backs off. Nostrils flaring with repressed hate.
GISBORNE: Seize him! While two soldiers grab the Boy, others examine his hiding place. A secret thatched door, built into the side of a haystack. a bow and quiver. and a deer carcass. Gisborne dismounts.
GISBORNE: This is Lord Nottingham's deer. Is this how you repay the Sheriff for his protection?
FANNY: I killed it. We needed the meat.
GISBORNE: Poachers hang. Either he dies or you die.
WULF: My mother lies to protect me.
FANNY: No, Wulf! Gisborne drags the boy to the carcass.
GISBORNE: You have deprived us of a hunt, He cups his hand in the deer's blood. Smears it on Wulf's face.
GISBORNE: The hounds know the scent well. He tosses his bloody glove to the dogs. They tear at each other in their effort to rip at the glove.
GISBORNE: Run, boy. Like a deer. Give us some pleasure before you die.
GISBORNE: Unleash them!
ROBIN: Why must you walk in back of me?
ASLAN: In your land am I not the infidel? The unbeliever, the instrument of Our races have fought for a hundred years to prove that point.
ROBIN: Our races have fought for a hundred years to prove that point.
ASLAN: Then I trust it is safer to appear as your slave than as your equal.
ROBIN: For an 'infidel' you have uncommon clarity of thinking. Yet you refuse to tell me about your home and family.
ASLAN: Those are my burdens.
ROBIN: You speak my language. You have the diplomacy and honor code of a nobleman. I ask again, why were you to be executed? The Saracen maintains a moody silence.
ROBIN: So, I must continue with my guesswork. You are highborn? Probably. You fell from favor. Clearly. Why? You broke the law? You were a rival for power? . A woman?
ROBIN: By the Lord, that's it!
ROBIN: They say there are Arab women of such beauty that they can possess a man's mind, that he would be willing to die for them. Is that not so? It is close to sunset.
ASLAN: It is close to sunset.
ROBIN: Your people must marry women chosen for them by others, right?
ROBIN: Who is she? The Mullah's daughter? . Another man's wife?. That's Endless clouds. Is there no sun in your cursed country?
ASLAN: Endless clouds. Is there no sun in your cursed country?
ROBIN: You dog! You painted old dog! What is her name?
ASLAN: Which way is East?
ROBIN: Her name?
ASLAN: Her name?
ROBIN: Her name?
ASLAN: Robin folds his arms. A standoff.
ASLAN: Damn you!. Jasmina.
ROBIN: Ah, Jasmina! Is she beautiful?
ASLAN: Which way is East?
ROBIN: That way. Aslan throws his rug on the ground. Kneels.
ASLAN: Are you sure?
ROBIN: I would know blindfolded. I'm five miles from home. Was she worth it?
ASLAN: Worth dying for. Robin stands smiling over him as Aslan begins his prayers. BAYING of HUNTING DOGS. In the distance, the boy Wulf runs toward them, ducks behind a tree and clubs the leading dog with a branch. The other hounds close in. panting with exhaustion, Wulf swings into the branches. A hound savages his leg. The soldiers surround the tree. The boy clambers precariously onto the highest branch. Robin surrep- titiously steals a crossbow from one of the soldiers' You're not playing by the rules, boy. Deer don't climb trees. Perhaps he thinks he's a game bird. Shall we teach him to fly? Cut it down! The soldiers hack at the trunk. The tree quivers.
GISBORNE: You're not playing by the rules, boy. Deer don't climb trees. Perhaps he thinks he's a game bird. Shall we teach him to fly? Cut it down! The soldiers hack at the trunk. The tree quivers.
ROBIN: Hold!. I am curious as to what manner of creature is so fearsome that it takes six men to attack Shrouded in his pilgrim's hooded cloak, he approaches Stand back, stranger. This is no affair of yours.
GISBORNE: Stand back, stranger. This is no affair of yours.
ROBIN: Have we treed the devil himself? Let me see. Ah ha! A small boy. A truly dangerous animal.
GISBORNE: I advise you to move on, pilgrim. This is the Sheriff's land.
ROBIN: Wrong. This is my land, and my tree. Therefore, whatever is in it also belongs to me.
GISBORNE: I grow dangerously tired of your wit. Chop it down!
ROBIN: The man who strikes that tree He glances nervously at Aslan, who's still at his prayers. The men stop in mid-swing. More surprised than scared. Gisborne gestures to the largest of them.
GISBORNE: Chop down the hooded fool.
ROBIN: ( backing up ) Perhaps we could discuss this.
GISBORNE: Kill him!
ROBIN: Aslan! It's time to redeem that Set the dogs on him!
GISBORNE: Set the dogs on him!
ROBIN: Aslan, get off your damn knees! I have four of them cornered.
ROBIN: I hope there's enough of me to satisfy you all.
ROBIN: Gisborne is on him, sword pressed to his back. Robin A moment of silence. Like lightning, Robin spins, kicks out Gisborne's legs. Slams one foot on the man's sword arm, the other on his throat. Throws back his pilgrim's hood.
GISBORNE: Well, hooded stranger, allow me to know your name before I run you
GISBORNE: Robin of Locksley!
ROBIN: On your knees, Gisborne. Pray.
GISBORNE: Please, Locksley! No! Now get off my land. And tell your cousin the Sheriff what happens to his scum when they pick on my
ROBIN: Now get off my land. And tell your cousin the Sheriff what happens to his scum when they pick on my Gisborne takes off, colliding with Aslan as he folds his rug. Reacts in shock at the sight of the strange Arab. Keeps running.
ROBIN: ( to Aslan, You worthless savage! You travel ten thousand miles to save my life, then leave me to be butchered.
ASLAN: I will fulfill my vow when I Which does not include prayer times, meal times, or any time I'm outnumbered six to one!!
ROBIN: Which does not include prayer times, meal times, or any time I'm outnumbered six to one!!
ASLAN: You whine like a mule. You are still alive.
ROBIN: Aslan examines Robin's wound. Dismissive.
ASLAN: A flesh wound. Why did you let their leader go?
ROBIN: After six years of the stench of death, I have no stomach for needless blood on my hands. Wulf climbs cautiously from the tree.
ROBIN: Have no fear, boy. The boy nervously eyes Robin and the Saracen, fingering a crucifix around his neck. Runs off into the woods.
ASLAN: ( laughing ) The conquering hero returns.
ROBIN: Ha! It was you he was scared of. Aslan's humor is infectious. Robin's anger relents.
ROBIN: Come, my strange friend. Beyond that hill lies the prettiest little castle in all Christendom. Warm hearths, hot food, real beds.
ASLAN: With feather pillows?
ROBIN: With feather pillows. Warm and soft like Jasmina's embrace.
ROBIN: Father! Hello! His VOICE ECHOES around the fallen battlements. Aslan places a hand on his shoulder and points. Suspended high on a tower wall is a decaying human corpse.
ROBIN: A paroxysm of rage and grief. He smashes furniture. Slams his fists relentlessly into the wall. Pained, Aslan looks on.
ROBIN: I should have been here. Spent, he leans against the wall. In the silence, they hear an eerie TAPPING. Robin draws his sword. A hunched, old man emerges, walking with the aid of a staff . Duncan.
ROBIN: ( shaking him ) Damn you, Duncan. Why didn't you cut him down?
DUNCAN: Master Robin, is it you? A miracle. I thought God had abandoned us.
ROBIN: You left my father to hang like a common thief, carrion for the Easy. Look at him. Duncan steps into the moonlight. His face crudely- What has happened?
ASLAN: Easy. Look at him. Duncan steps into the moonlight. His face crudely- What has happened?
ROBIN: What has happened?
DUNCAN: They say they captured him worshipping with the Druids. He signed a confession before the Bishop of Hereford.
ROBIN: Did they have witnesses?
DUNCAN: Just one. Kenneth of Cowfall. The Bishop decreed all the Locksley lands forfeit.
ROBIN: Did you believe the charges?
DUNCAN: Not even when they took my eyes.
ROBIN: Who did this to you, Duncan?
DUNCAN: Guy of Gisborne. With the sheriff looking on. Robin holds the old retainer to his chest. Stares into the night in silent rage.
SENTRY: Sir Guy. His Lordship is not to be disturbed.
GISBORNE: Away, fool. He shoves the Sentry aside.
NOTTINGHAM: Who bade you cover up? He smashes his fist into his chair. She timidly Cousin, I trust you justify your intrusion with news of profound His attention is riveted on a dark niche in the corner of the courtyard. UNEARTHLY SOUNDS emanate from the black- I met a hooded man today. He bade me warn you not to harm his His name?
NOTTINGHAM: Cousin, I trust you justify your intrusion with news of profound His attention is riveted on a dark niche in the corner of the courtyard. UNEARTHLY SOUNDS emanate from the black- I met a hooded man today. He bade me warn you not to harm his His name?
GISBORNE: I met a hooded man today. He bade me warn you not to harm his His name?
NOTTINGHAM: His name?
GISBORNE: Robin of Locksley.
NOTTINGHAM: Ha! The prodigal son returns. He is a whelp. This girl could best This whelp bested five of my men in the blink of an eye.
GISBORNE: This whelp bested five of my men in the blink of an eye.
NOTTINGHAM: Your men were probably drunk. Yet you survived, cousin? Heavy scorn. The sheriff pats Gisborne's hand like a child's. The voice from the darkness becomes a loud CHANT. A wrinkled, monkey-like figure dances INTO VIEW, wearing a necklace of human fingers. You might think she was a hundred years old, if not for her incredible agility. MORTIANNA.
GISBORNE: ( stunned ) You brought her here?
NOTTINGHAM: The crone's fingers dart into a bag. Emerge with a writhing, SQUEALING mass. a PIGLET. A knife flashes. Blood spurts into an ornate, sacred platter. The girl flinches in horror. Mortianna shakes the con- tents of a pouch across the bloody dish. Carved bone dice Runes. She rattles the platter. The rune symbols dance in trails of blood. Eyes vacant, mouth frothing, she hisses out her incoherent visions. Nottingham follows her every move. A connoisseur.
NOTTINGHAM: What do you see?
MORTIANNA: Change the seat of power.
NOTTINGHAM: Change it.
MORTIANNA: Change it.
NOTTINGHAM: Move the capitol to Nottingham? Excellent. How?
MORTIANNA: Ally with royal blood.
NOTTINGHAM: Put someone on the throne and rule through him? Who?
MORTIANNA: That is not revealed. The idea takes shape in Nottingham's mind. Mounting Ally with royal blood. What else do you see?
NOTTINGHAM: Ally with royal blood. What else do you see?
MORTIANNA: Yours. Men and weaponry in great And victory?
NOTTINGHAM: Yours. Men and weaponry in great And victory?
MORTIANNA: Yours. Men and weaponry in great And victory?
NOTTINGHAM: And victory?
MORTIANNA: Much blood will be spilled.
NOTTINGHAM: CLOSE SHOT Mortianna hammers the platter. The dice spins and lands again. Again the grinning skull.
CLOSE SHOT: Mortianna hammers the platter. The dice spins and lands again. Again the grinning skull.
MORTIANNA: Who have you seen?! She shakes him. Screams spittle in his face.
GISBORNE: ( freaked ) No one. I have seen no one.
MORTIANNA: You lie! A man. A painted man.
NOTTINGHAM: What is wrong?
MORTIANNA: I have seen my death. She whimpers. Spins, as if fearing invisible intruders.
MORTIANNA: The painted man. He haunts my Locksley has a companion. A dark- skinned foreigner. He had the marked skin of Islam. Mortianna trembles like an epileptic. Eyes wide with Kill them! Kill them! She throws herself at Nottingham for protection. He caresses her. Gisborne is thunderstruck.
GISBORNE: Locksley has a companion. A dark- skinned foreigner. He had the marked skin of Islam. Mortianna trembles like an epileptic. Eyes wide with Kill them! Kill them! She throws herself at Nottingham for protection. He caresses her. Gisborne is thunderstruck.
MORTIANNA: Kill them! Kill them! She throws herself at Nottingham for protection. He caresses her. Gisborne is thunderstruck.
NOTTINGHAM: Cousin. Prove to Locksley that your survival was his last mistake.
MORTIANNA: ( frantic ) And the painted man! Kill him.
NOTTINGHAM: Kill them both. He continues to stroke her. Her trembling subsides.
NOTTINGHAM: You have done well, Mortianna. Exceedingly well. No one shall harm you, I swear it. Mortianna reaches out bloodied fingers towards the young girl, who shrinks away. Nottingham gently takes the girl's hand.
NOTTINGHAM: Now, my child, Mortianna's kisses will seem soft, like an angel's. Take her. You have earned her. Mortianna grabs the terrified girl's wrist. Drags her It is madness bringing the hag Fear not for my sanity, Guy. For in madness, there is great power.
GISBORNE: It is madness bringing the hag Fear not for my sanity, Guy. For in madness, there is great power.
NOTTINGHAM: Fear not for my sanity, Guy. For in madness, there is great power.
ROBIN: Our last words in this world were spoken in anger. He called the Crusades a foolish quest, said it was vanity to force other men to our religion. He was right. Please forgive me, Father.
DUNCAN: He loved you till the end, young master. He never gave up hope of your return.
ROBIN: I failed him. I should have been here at his side.
DUNCAN: You must leave, head north to safety. Gisborne will surely seek Leave me.
ROBIN: Leave me.
DUNCAN: I know what you're thinking. But one man can achieve nothing against so many. You would need an army.
ROBIN: Leave me.
ASLAN: Come, friend. He leads the old man away.
DUNCAN: He still stands vigil?
ASLAN: Like a rock. Duncan offers half the bread to the Saracen.
DUNCAN: A curse on the Saracens! Were it not for their ungodly ways, he would never have left. This would never have happened.
ASLAN: It surprises me that one who curses others so readily has lived so long.
DUNCAN: I do not recognize the style of your voice, friend. Are you Irish? A Cornishman?
ASLAN: Er. no.
DUNCAN: What manner of name is Aslan then?
ASLAN: A fine Saracen name.
DUNCAN: Lord, no! He chokes in shock. Spitting bread.
ASLAN: Lord, yes. But eat in peace. I take no offense. By the prophet! What is the man Robin raises his dagger over his wrist. Aslan runs to Too late. Robin slashes the dagger across his palm. Rain and blood mingle. Streaming onto the grave.
ASLAN: Too late. Robin slashes the dagger across his palm. Rain and blood mingle. Streaming onto the grave.
ROBIN: I swear by my own blood. I will not rest until I have restored my father's name. . Or until I am dead.
ROBIN: We make a fine army, do we not, Duncan? A blind man, an Arab, and a fool.
ASLAN: A fine, wet army. I have never witnessed a storm of such duration. When does summer come to this This is summer.
ROBIN: This is summer.
ASLAN: Then Allah truly is great.
ROBIN: Why, pray?
ASLAN: No food, no shelter, and weather that would curse the end of the earth. We will all quickly be dead, and I shall be rid of my You despair too soon, Aslan. We shall find food and shelter here among friends.
ROBIN: You despair too soon, Aslan. We shall find food and shelter here among friends.
ASLAN: What is this place?
ROBIN: Peter's home. It is nearly seven years since we left here together.
OLD WOMAN: No beggars!
ROBIN: Open up!
ROBIN: Tell the mistress of the house that Robin of Locksley is at her Her ladyship is not at home.
OLD WOMAN: Her ladyship is not at home.
ROBIN: He shouts through the hatch, over his bruised fingers.
ROBIN: Is the child Marian at home?
OLD WOMAN: Maybe she is. Maybe she isn't. Remove that hand.
ASLAN: The hospitality here is as warm as the weather.
OLD WOMAN: Leave your weapons. Just you.
OLD WOMAN: Just you.
OLD WOMAN: Wait here.
GIRL: Who are you?
ROBIN: I am Robin of Locksley.
GIRL: You lie. Robin is dead.
ROBIN: I may meet my maker soon from lack of sustenance. But for now I am real enough.
GIRL: Step into the light. Turn around.
ROBIN: By heaven, am I to dance next? Who are you?
GIRL: I am the maid Marian.
ROBIN: Then show yourself, child. For we knew each other well.
GIRL: With the king away, these are lawless times. There are outlaws villainous enough to kidnap and ransom a relative of his.
ROBIN: You know I am not one of them. Besides, I am sworn to protect Protect me? Robin of Locksley was nothing but a spoiled bully.
GIRL: ( laughs ) Protect me? Robin of Locksley was nothing but a spoiled bully.
ROBIN: Allow that years of war and prison may change a man. Step forward, Marian, so I may see how you have She moves into the light. Fat. Rotten teeth. Ugly as Er. the years have been kind.
ROBIN: Er. the years have been kind.
GIRL: Thank you. Now remove yourself from this household. A figure steps behind Robin. Sticks a sword in his back.
GIRL: ( turning away ) As you can see, we are already well protected.
ROBIN: Wait, Marian! .ouch!
ROBIN: You are truly courageous against an unarmed man.
OUTSIDE: the door. It doesn't give.
INSIDE: horns get shorter. Robin retreats. Left with just the nubs, Robin hurls the deer head at the mask. Gaining advantage, he charges. Grabs the dagger hand, smashes it into the wall. The knife drops. Robin wrenches off the mask. Long hair tumbles down. a beautiful YOUNG WOMAN. The front door CAVES IN. Aslan stumbles through. just in time to see the woman's knee fly up into Robin's crotch. Robin folds. The battle is over. The young woman stands over Robin.
YOUNG WOMAN: As she was saying, we have no need of your protection.
ROBIN: CUT TO:
MARIAN: I trust Lord Locksley has recovered from his indisposition. Aslan laughs. Robin glares.
MARIAN: Why would he wish me to be protected by the boy who burned my hair when I was a child?
ROBIN: We were together five terrible years in a Saracen prison.
MARIAN: How do I know you didn't abandon him there to save your own skin. Robin hands her Peter's ring. She is shocked.
ROBIN: Marian, I'm sorry.
MARIAN: I will forward your condolences to my mother. She turns her back. He searches for a way to reach her.
ROBIN: On my return, I found my father dead. The Sheriff denounced him as a Druid and took our lands.
MARIAN: The people fear the Druids so much they'd believe anything. Nottingham would have me burned at the stake as a witch if he thought he could possess my property.
ROBIN: Why do you not join your mother in London? You would be safer I will not retreat. Besides, I have no interest in life at court. Gossip-mongering and currying favor. Here I am my own person.
MARIAN: I will not retreat. Besides, I have no interest in life at court. Gossip-mongering and currying favor. Here I am my own person.
ROBIN: The you must allow me to be your I do not need a guardian. She turns to face him. Streaming tears.
MARIAN: I do not need a guardian. She turns to face him. Streaming tears.
MARIAN: My brother is dead. You cannot take his place. Robin grabs and holds her.
ROBIN: Marian, I don't want to replace What do you want? Their eyes meet. a sudden intimacy between them. Robin moves closer. Marian begins to respond, then pulls away.
MARIAN: What do you want? Their eyes meet. a sudden intimacy between them. Robin moves closer. Marian begins to respond, then pulls away.
MARIAN: This is wrong. She runs back to the house. Robin stares after her. Aslan appears in the doorway with Duncan.
ASLAN: Robin! The old man hears horses. Approaching fast. He runs to a bluff. a column of soldiers snakes up the Twenty or more. In battle armor.
ASLAN: Twenty or more. In battle armor.
MARIAN: Soldiers coming here? Is this your protection?
ROBIN: I killed some of the Sheriff's men. I fear I have placed you in I can take care of myself. There are horses in the stable. Go! Aslan runs into the stables.
MARIAN: I can take care of myself. There are horses in the stable. Go! Aslan runs into the stables.
ROBIN: I'm not leaving. Marian ices him with a glare. Aslan reappears, with two bareback horses. Soldiers appear on the crest, led by Gisborne. With a mischievous grin, Marian runs to the Stop them! They're stealing my Damn the girl! Aslan, can you In answer, Aslan grins. Leaps onto a horse. With a single swift move he hoists Duncan up behind him and digs in his heels. The mare leaps forward, and over the estate wall.
MARIAN: Stop them! They're stealing my Damn the girl! Aslan, can you In answer, Aslan grins. Leaps onto a horse. With a single swift move he hoists Duncan up behind him and digs in his heels. The mare leaps forward, and over the estate wall.
ROBIN: Damn the girl! Aslan, can you In answer, Aslan grins. Leaps onto a horse. With a single swift move he hoists Duncan up behind him and digs in his heels. The mare leaps forward, and over the estate wall.
ROBIN: He can ride. He heads his horse at the wall. It stumbles. Barely clears it. Stones fly. Robin struggles to hold on. Marian stands directly in Gisborne's path.
GISBORNE: You have been sheltering outlaws, Lady Marian.
MARIAN: They're thieves, you imbecile. Bring back my horses, or the Sheriff will know of your Gisborne knows she is lying.
GISBORNE: You're lucky he didn't steal your virtue too. A crown to the man who brings me Locksley's head. He leads the pursuit. A SOLDIER hangs back. Grabs Marian's hair.
SOLDIER: A kiss for me, Saxon bitch.
MARIAN: Kiss this! She unsheathes the dagger from under her skirt. Jabs the blade into his wrist.
MARIAN: Try me again, if you want to leave a hand behind. Shocked and pained, the man gallops away. Marian looks down at her dagger hand. It shakes violently.
ROBIN: Damn you, animal! Aslan shouts from the far bank.
ASLAN: Treat it like a woman. Robin continues to hit his horse and hurl abuse. Closing in, the soldiers unfurl their crossbows. A flight of BOLTS WHISTLES ominously close to Robin. He must jump or Have you never had a woman? Gently, man. Soothe it!
ASLAN: Have you never had a woman? Gently, man. Soothe it!
ROBIN: Of course I've had a woman! Come on, pretty one. He pats the horse soothingly. The animal edges forward.
ASLAN: Softly. With your knees.
ROBIN: I know! I know! The soldiers reload. Robin urges the horse at the steep Easy, easy. Another wave of crossbow bolts. Robin launches the frightened animal into space. Hooves flail. touch down. Scramble up the other bank. Robin enthusiastically pats the horse's neck.
ROBIN: Easy, easy. Another wave of crossbow bolts. Robin launches the frightened animal into space. Hooves flail. touch down. Scramble up the other bank. Robin enthusiastically pats the horse's neck.
ROBIN: I love you! The first two pursuers misjudge their leaps. Their mounts land sprawling in the riverbed.
GISBORNE: ( yelling ) Robin of the Hood! Son of the devil worshipper.
ROBIN: What is your pleasure, Gisborne?
GISBORNE: It was I who strung your father's corpse to the castle gate. My pleasure will be in doing the same to you.
ROBIN: You survived one meeting. Our next will be your last.
GISBORNE: Your father died a coward, cursing your name and squealing like a stuck pig.
ROBIN: That's a lie!
ASLAN: ( shouts ) Come, Robin! He is trying to anger you into a trap.
ROBIN: We have lost them. I'll lame this mare if I ask her to go any farther.
SCOPE POV: BACK TO SCENE Robin puts the device to his eye.
ASLAN: Here they come. Look.
SCOPE POV: BACK TO SCENE realizes they are still in the distance.
ROBIN: Is this Arab magic?
ASLAN: No. Arab science. He replaces the tube in his pouch.
ASLAN: How did your uneducated kind ever take Jerusalem?
ROBIN: God knows! Aslan laughs. Robin points towards an endless expanse of We can lose them in the forest.
ROBIN: We can lose them in the forest.
DUNCAN: Sherwood is haunted, Master.
ROBIN: Either we take our chances with the ghosts, or become ghosts ourselves. He remounts. They race into the trees. Gisborne's men thunder up,. slowing as they enter the forest. Peering around them in trepidation, they slowly rein in. Robin looks back.
ROBIN: They're not following. Gisborne curses his men, urging them on.
GISBORNE: Come on, damn you! There are only three of them.
SOLDIER: It's not the men we fear, sir. Eerie HOWLING and RATTLING of bones. Aslan draws his Banshees. They say they fly in your mouth and suck you dry of blood before you can scream. He wraps his scarf over his mouth.
DUNCAN: Banshees. They say they fly in your mouth and suck you dry of blood before you can scream. He wraps his scarf over his mouth.
ROBIN: Be quiet! Listen. WIND GUSTS the trees in angry waves. Emits deathly SHRIEKS. The HORSES WHINNEY. Unnerved, Aslan smites around him with his scimitar. Wheels at the sounds, striking only air.
ASLAN: Allah protect us from the evil Duncan clings to his back. Robin points.
ROBIN: Behind you! Aslan slashes out, futilely.
ROBIN: No, there! And there! Aslan flails. Robin cracks up.
ASLAN: Cease your mad laughing. I can feel them. Robin reaches into the branches. Pulls out a string of hollowed wooden tubes WINDCHIMES. Dozens of such strings on all the trees. He blows over the hollow end. A low chilling MOAN.
ROBIN: Here are your ghosts, Duncan. A child's toy put to good use. You scare easily, my painted Saladin. His laughter is broken by a piercing YELL. A red- jacketed figure swings down out of a tree on a rope. Catapults him to the ground. The bushes are instantly alive. Shaggy, wild-eyed men, armed with cudgels, scythes and hayforks. Twelfth- century Hell's Angels. The red-jacketed young turk, WILL SCARLET, leaps around Robin.
WILL SCARLET: ( singing ) Ring around the rosie!
ROBIN: Aslan makes no move to intervene.
WILL SCARLET: Atishoo, Atishoo. We all fall down. Beg for mercy, rich man.
ROBIN: I beg of no man. Which of you scum has guts enough to face me man to man?
JOHN LITTLE: What are ya, m'old cock?
ROBIN: Er. Robin. He pauses, checking the faces of the angry peasants.
ROBIN: .Hood. Robin Hood. Who are John Little. Bestman o' the Bestman? You lead this rabble?
JOHN LITTLE: John Little. Bestman o' the Bestman? You lead this rabble?
ROBIN: Bestman? You lead this rabble?
WILL SCARLET: We waste time. Tax him.
ROBIN: Tax? For what?
WILL SCARLET: For passage through Sherwood.
ROBIN: I will pay no tax. Besides, I have nothing but my cloak and my sword.
WILL SCARLET: A man who travels with two servants and claims he's without money, is either a fool or a liar. Grabbing Robin, Little shakes him like a doll. Something CLINKS. Robin's father's medallion. Laughing heartily, Little rips it from Robin's neck and tosses it to Scarlet.
WILL SCARLET: And this one is a liar. Ahah! Gold! The men cheer. John snatches the medallion back from That is sacred to me.
ROBIN: That is sacred to me.
JOHN LITTLE: Sacred to us too, mush. This here'll feed us for a bloomin' Robin draws his sword.
ROBIN: You will have to fight me for it.
JOHN LITTLE: I'd love to, mate. He grins hugely. A boy pushes his way through the throng.
WULF: Wait, father! I know him.
ROBIN: This man is your father? Tell him how I saved your hide from the Sheriff's soldiers. That deserves some gratitude, I believe. He reaches for the medallion. John pulls it away.
JOHN LITTLE: Naw ya don't, laddie.
WILL SCARLET: You must be Robin of Locksley. The blackguard who abandoned us to Nottingham's plundering.
WULF: Be careful, Father. He fights like a demon. He walloped six o' Sheriff's men?
JOHN LITTLE: Is that so? Another grin. Licking his lips in anticipation, he lunges for Robin's wrist. Wrenches the sword free. Bends it into a pretzel.
ROBIN: Aslan shrugs. Robin swings a fist into the giant's gut. John doesn't flinch. Hoists Robin off the ground with one arm. Cannonballs the other fist into Robin's stomach. Robin folds.
WILL SCARLET: Oh dear! The little rich boy is lost for words. Thanks for the taxes, Locksley.
JOHN LITTLE: And for the laughs. The woodsmen find this hysterical. They disappear into the tree. Will administers one final kick before leaving. Robin staggers to his feet. Glares furiously at Aslan.
ROBIN: Son of an Arab whore! Once again your assistance was invaluable.
ASLAN: You seemed more in danger of losing your pride than your life.
DUNCAN: I recognized some of the voices. Many were from your father's farms.
ASLAN: Your avenging army, my friend.
ROBIN: That rabble?
ASLAN: All they need is a leader.
ROBIN: They have a leader. A very large Defeat him and they will follow Allah has taken your brains.
ASLAN: Defeat him and they will follow Allah has taken your brains.
ROBIN: Allah has taken your brains.
DUNCAN: I hear the voice of a spoiled child, Master Robin. I suggest you cease your brave talk of revenge and flee to the north.
ROBIN: You, too? You expect me to fight that behemoth?
DUNCAN: Your father would expect you to act like a man.
ROBIN: This is my bridge. No one crosses without paying tax.
JOHN LITTLE: Just bugger off, mate, huh?
ROBIN: If you wish to cross, it will cost you a gold medallion.
JOHN LITTLE: Ain't I hurt you a bloody nuff for one day?
WILL SCARLET: If he's in a hurry to end his mortal misery, help him.
ROBIN: You don't have the courage to face me again, John Little? Or should I call you 'Little John'? John grabs a hefty, gnarled staff. Strides to the Alright, m'old cock. You wanna nuther good wallopin'? His confidence melting, Robin glances back at Duncan and Aslan, who grins like a fan at a boxing match. John storms at Robin. Staffs thrash. Driven back, Robin connects a blow on John's foot. The giant is off-balance. Robin follows up. Lands a couple to the ribs. John responds with heavy swings, which Robin blocks deftly. Back and forth, blow for blow, all blocked. John chuckles with every swing. Enjoying the time of his life. Their staffs lock. It's strength against strength. Robin is no match. With one mighty thrust, John hurtles him into the stream. The woodsmen cheer loudly. Aslan watches impassively. Robin scrambles back onto the bridge. John waits, Lil' wet behind the ears, mate?
JOHN LITTLE: Alright, m'old cock. You wanna nuther good wallopin'? His confidence melting, Robin glances back at Duncan and Aslan, who grins like a fan at a boxing match. John storms at Robin. Staffs thrash. Driven back, Robin connects a blow on John's foot. The giant is off-balance. Robin follows up. Lands a couple to the ribs. John responds with heavy swings, which Robin blocks deftly. Back and forth, blow for blow, all blocked. John chuckles with every swing. Enjoying the time of his life. Their staffs lock. It's strength against strength. Robin is no match. With one mighty thrust, John hurtles him into the stream. The woodsmen cheer loudly. Aslan watches impassively. Robin scrambles back onto the bridge. John waits, Lil' wet behind the ears, mate?
JOHN LITTLE: Lil' wet behind the ears, mate?
WILL SCARLET: Don't fool with him. Get him! John charges. Robin fends him off, gets in some shots of his own. John swings in a giant arc. Robin ducks. John loses balance and falls to his knees. Robin allows him time to right himself. John comes at him again, pummeling. Wood splinters from the impact. Brute force versus agility. Agility is beginning to prevail, when Robin's staff splits in two.
JOHN LITTLE: Swimmin' time again, ol' chum. The coup de grace. Lands heavily. Robin teeters. Falls. Disappears under the foaming water. does not re-emerge. John waits. The spectators rush to the bank. No sign.
JOHN LITTLE: Bloomin' shame. 'E were a brave Suddenly Robin arcs up out of the water. His hands clamp onto John's ankles. Robin heaves with all his might. John topples headfirst into the water. Surfaces in panic.
JOHN LITTLE: Help! Cain't bloody swim. He submerges again. Robin pulls his head above water.
ROBIN: Do you yield? The terrified giant sputters. Goes under again, flailing with arms and legs. Robin holds his head just above the Do you yield?
ROBIN: Do you yield?
JOHN LITTLE: Good. Now put your feet down. John struggles, then his feet hit bottom. The water only reaches his chest.
ROBIN: Good. Now put your feet down. John struggles, then his feet hit bottom. The water only reaches his chest.
JOHN LITTLE: I'll be buggered.
ROBIN: Pay me the tax. A tense pause while all wait for Little's reaction.
JOHN LITTLE: Robin Hood, ya got balls o' solid He hands Robin back the medallion. Chuckling loudly, he swoops Robin up in his arms and carries him to the bank.
LITTLE JOHN: Mead. Made it m'self.
ROBIN: ( drinks ) A fine brew, Little John. Real honey. With regrets, I decline.
LITTLE JOHN: Real honey. With regrets, I decline.
ASLAN: With regrets, I decline.
LITTLE JOHN: An Englishman's mead not bleedin' good enough for ya?
ASLAN: On the contrary. I thank you, but my faith prevents me from partaking in such enjoyments.
LITTLE JOHN: Your bloody loss, mate.
LITTLE JOHN: What is it, boy? Speak up!
WULF: I wanna thankee, Lord Locksley. I owes ya m'life.
ROBIN: You owe me nothing, Wulf. I am glad I chanced by in time to help.
LITTLE JOHN: C'mon, lad, drink! 'Twill put hair on your bloomin' chest.
ROBIN: Tell me about your men, John. This stumpy one 'ere's David o' Doncaster. We calls 'im Bull.
LITTLE JOHN: This stumpy one 'ere's David o' Doncaster. We calls 'im Bull.
ROBIN: How do you come by the name, Bull?
BULL: 'Cuz o' my size, Sire.
ROBIN: Because you are short?
BULL: Nay. 'Cuz I be so long. Proudly, he starts to pull down his pants.
ROBIN: No, Bull. Save it for the ladies. Drunken laughter. Robin turns to the next man at the Your name, friend? The man's bald pate blushes scarlet as he tries to respond, but he stutters too badly to get out a comprehensible word.
ROBIN: Your name, friend? The man's bald pate blushes scarlet as he tries to respond, but he stutters too badly to get out a comprehensible word.
LITTLE JOHN: That be Hal Brownwell, but the lads call i'm Hal Hiccup. The others make hiccup and belching sounds, and crack up at Hal's embarrassment. Hal strikes out angrily at his Hold! Hal, you have the face and hands of a farmer. I wager you are a strong and honest man, and I'd be glad to have you at my side in a fight. The next man who makes light of you will have to answer to me. There is murmuring around the group, but no one elects to try it.
ROBIN: Hold! Hal, you have the face and hands of a farmer. I wager you are a strong and honest man, and I'd be glad to have you at my side in a fight. The next man who makes light of you will have to answer to me. There is murmuring around the group, but no one elects to try it.
ROBIN: How is it there are so many of you in hiding?
LITTLE JOHN: We're outlaws. Got prices on our 'eads, every man jack. Blasted Sheriff says we owes 'im taxes.
ROBIN: How do you fare?
LITTLE JOHN: We get by, I reckon.
ROBIN: While the Sheriff steals your land and your families starve?
LITTLE JOHN: What in bloody blazes'd ya have us do?
ROBIN: Your ghosts will only keep his men at bay so long, my friend. Soon the Sheriff will hunt you down and hang you. You must fight back.
LITTLE JOHN: We show as much as a toe outside the forest, they'll slaughter us like bleedin' sheep.
ROBIN: We must organize. Win by guile.
LITTLE JOHN: 'We'? Ya lookin' to join us, No. To lead you.
ROBIN: No. To lead you.
WILL SCARLET: Ha! I would never be led by the son of a Druid.
ROBIN: There are many here who knew my father to be a kind and generous man. I doubt that in their hearts they believe him capable of such a Murmurs of agreement from around the fire. Robin turns to Will.
ROBIN: What is your name, friend?
WILL SCARLET: Count me not a friend, Locksley.
LITTLE JOHN: Stuff a flippin' cork in it, Will. The man's our guest. Will gets up. Angrily pushes his way out of the group.
LITTLE JOHN: That there's Will Scarlet. Pay 'im no 'eed. 'E's full o' piss and wind.
ROBIN: He is right to distrust me. I am a rich man's son. I have done no honest labor. But today I am as poor as any of you. Nottingham has stolen all that I own. And when I killed Gisborne's men, I, too, became an outlaw.
LITTLE JOHN: Ya're full o'bloody wind an' all, mate. This 'ere load o' rubbish agin the Sheriff's bloomin' army? Ya must be bloody jokin'.
ROBIN: We can win. And I believe we will.
LITTLE JOHN: Ya're a daft bugger, Robin Hood, but ya're a brave 'un, I'll give ya that. Drink up, laddie, cuz tomorrow ya mayn't be so lucky! Tomorrow I shall best ya an' crack that blasted noble head in two. Laughing loudly, he throws back his head for a long draught of mead.
ASLAN: ( gloomily ) I have led you wrong. This is no army. These men live like dogs.
ROBIN: English dogs. They can learn.
ASLAN: Learn what? To build kennels? He sullenly stalks away. Robin shakes his head. Aslan is right. He rouses Duncan, who is asleep at his side. The old man groans awake, holding his head. Seriously Too much mead, old friend. What day is it?
ROBIN: Too much mead, old friend. What day is it?
DUNCAN: Sunday, I believe.
ROBIN: Good. Do they still give alms to the poor at the mass?
DUNCAN: They do. These days the need for mercy is greater than ever.
ROBIN: Then I must ask you a favor.
GUARD: Hey, you! Robin keeps going. A hand clasps his shoulder. Spins him 'round.
GUARD: Do I know you? Robin gazes into space, trying to look blind. The Guard sniffs his soiled hand.
GUARD: My God, you stink!
ROBIN: Pardon my blindness, sir. I'm always falling down.
GUARD: Yeech! Get away from me. He launches a kick in Robin's rear. Robin hobbles away, hiding a smile. The Guard tries to wipe off his hand on the wall.
BISHOP: We beseech thy blessing, Lord, on all your people, but most especially on our noble Lord Nottingham. Grant him the wisdom to guide and protect our glorious Nottingham and Gisborne sit piously among the congrega- tion of nobles and wealthy merchants.
BISHOP: Grant him also the strength to bring to justice the lawless men who threaten its safety. Help him to stamp out the curse of the dread Druids who would seize from us our children, even as wolves steal the lambs from their mothers. The rear of the church. Standing crushed together, the poor and afflicted. Old and young. Starving children. Among them, Robin. The sermon ends. As the nobles file out, the poor are galvanized. Begging hands reach out.
VARIOUS: 1. Alms! 2. Have mercy, milady. 3. Pity, fine sir. 4. For my baby. 5. Etc. The rich drop a few mites, sparking a mad scramble. Church officials roughly keep order. Marian passes some coins to the mother of a small child. A hand grabs her Alms for a blind man. For one who cannot see your beauty.
ROBIN: Alms for a blind man. For one who cannot see your beauty.
MARIAN: ( recognizing him ) This is dangerous.
ROBIN: So you care for my safety?
MARIAN: No, for mine. I do not wish to be seen with an outlaw.
ROBIN: Under the Sheriff's law, that's a badge of pride.
MARIAN: He's put a price on your head.
ROBIN: How much?
MARIAN: A hundred gold pieces.
ROBIN: Is that all? I have not annoyed him enough. Soon he will offer ten thousand.
MARIAN: For ten thousand I would turn you in myself. Nottingham is mounting an army.
ROBIN: How do you know?
MARIAN: He has rounded up every blacksmith in the county. He has them holed up in the castle making swords and What is he planning?
ROBIN: What is he planning?
MARIAN: I don't know, but there's no limit to the man's ambitions. If you need me, I will be with the woodsmen. Send for me as 'Robin Hood.'
ROBIN: If you need me, I will be with the woodsmen. Send for me as 'Robin Hood.'
MARIAN: Robin! Do something for me.
ROBIN: Take a bath.
MARIAN: Take a bath.
ROBIN: Care to join me? With a grin, he slips into the crowd as Nottingham You shine like the sun, my lady. He raises her hand, as he did the girl's in the castle. Kisses it.
NOTTINGHAM: You shine like the sun, my lady. He raises her hand, as he did the girl's in the castle. Kisses it.
NOTTINGHAM: You have been meeting with young Robin of Locksley. My cousin tells me the knave deprived you of some horses.
MARIAN: ( recovering ) Yes. A most disagreeable I deeply regret it, and I promise you he will be brought to justice. For subjecting you to such treatment, I will hang him from the walls with his own entrails.
NOTTINGHAM: I deeply regret it, and I promise you he will be brought to justice. For subjecting you to such treatment, I will hang him from the walls with his own entrails. That gleam of insanity. Robin watches from a distance.
MARIAN: I would like to see that, my lord. The Sheriff places his hand possessively on her shoulder.
NOTTINGHAM: My dear, a woman of your refinement is not safe living alone. If you would consent to bring your household within the city walls, I could give your needs my most personal attention.
MARIAN: I thank you, Lord Nottingham, from the heart, but for now I prefer to stay in my family's ancestral home. My cousin, King Richard, will be deeply moved to hear of your concern for my welfare.
NOTTINGHAM: Alas, the King has many enemies both abroad and at home. I fear for his safe return.
MARIAN: Fear not, my dear Sheriff. He will return. When he does, he will wish to reward his faithful subjects. The Sheriff smiles sourly and takes his leave. Marian deflates with relief. The Sheriff walks alone towards a side door.
BEGGAR: ( Robin ) Alms, my lord.
ROBIN: A hundred crowns, Sheriff? You insult me. Nottingham starts to struggle. Robin draws blood.
ROBIN: Remember young Robin of Locksley, Sheriff? Meet Robin Hood. Your nemesis. Your avenging angel.
NOTTINGHAM: If you kill me, you will hang.
ROBIN: If I kill you, I will hang happy.
NOTTINGHAM: What do you want?
ROBIN: I want to give you a chance. A chance you do not deserve. A chance to right your wrongs.
NOTTINGHAM: I'm listening.
ROBIN: From this day forward you will cease to tax my people. You will renounce the charges against my father, and you will return his lands to me.
NOTTINGHAM: Why should I?
ROBIN: Because for every harm you do, I swear by God I shall visit on you threefold in return.
NOTTINGHAM: Empty words.
ROBIN: I am here with a blade at your throat. As long as I live, you will always know that I could be here again. A YELL from across the church. Gisborne has spotted them. Robin digs the knife a little deeper.
ROBIN: Your answer?
NOTTINGHAM: Never, fool.
ROBIN: Then it will begin.. Gisborne yells orders. Robin hurls Nottingham against the wall.
MARIAN: ( innocently ) Please excuse my clumsiness.
ROBIN: A personal loan from the Sheriff.
ASLAN: ( furious ) You should not have left without me, Englishman.
ROBIN: How so? You have not raised a finger to protect me.
ASLAN: Before I had a choice.
ROBIN: It was my choice to do this alone.
ASLAN: A foolish risk. If you had been killed, I would be cursed for eternity for failing to fulfil my pledge.
ROBIN: Aslan, if I didn't know better, I would swear you were worried about me.
NOTTINGHAM: Starve them out. Slaughter their livestock. I want to see Locksley's own people fighting each other to bring him to us.
GISBORNE: I swear he will not live to see the next full moon.
FARMER: Go' bless ya, sir. Leave us the sow. She's with young 'uns. The next litter'll feed us through the winter.
SOLDIER: You've heard of Robin Hood?
FARMER: Yes, sir. The Soldier brutally kicks the old man to the ground.
SOLDIER: Then pray he is brought to us before winter.
WILL SCARLET: You brought this misery on us, Locksley. We can barely feed Sheriff hasn't left us a bloody pot to piss in.
LITTLE JOHN: Sheriff hasn't left us a bloody pot to piss in.
ROBIN: Then we shall take from him and his rich friends. This provokes a barrage of protests. The men are angry.
WILL SCARLET: Brave talk, Locksley. I say we take the rich boy in. Murmurs of general agreement.
ROBIN: Will, do you think the Sheriff will give everything back after I am He will give us the reward, and our pardons.
WILL SCARLET: He will give us the reward, and our pardons.
ROBIN: Alright, Will. You can take me in on one condition. You must fight me. You may use the Sheriff's horse and arm yourself as you please. I will fight on foot. If you lose, you will accept me as your leader. If you win, you may take me in. Dead or alive.
WILL SCARLET: If you lose, you will accept me as your leader. If you win, you may take me in. Dead or alive.
ROBIN: If you lose, you will accept me as your leader. If you win, you may take me in. Dead or alive.
WILL SCARLET: Dead, Locksley.
ASLAN: This man has true purpose. He means to kill you.
DUNCAN: And you have given him the means.
WULF: Will is ruthless, Robin. Guard your back.
ROBIN: I am grateful for your concern, friends, but I have to prove to them it is possible to overcome unequal odds. I am ready, Will. Will bends, as if checking the horse's legs. Secretly grabs a handful of sand. Swings into the saddle and digs in his heels. Closing in, Will flings the sand in Robin's eyes. Robin clutches his hands to his face, blinded. Will spins back to the attack. His sword slashes. Reacting to the sound, Robin rolls aside. The men cheer like a big fight crowd. Robin's POV is blurred. Ducking the blade, he grabs Will's arm. A blow glances off his shoulder. Robin falls to his knees, still blinded. Will rides right at him, to trample him. Robin scrambles away. Will wheels his horse. A flashing hoof grazes Robin's Robin leaps to his feet and yells at the top of his lungs. Panicked, the HORSE rears, WHINNYING wildly. Will struggles to stay in the saddle. Loses his sword. Robin seizes the moment and runs to a water trough. Douses his face. Yells at Will.
ROBIN: Come on, you little piss pot. Do your worst! Will grabs a spear from a bystander. Robin stands his ground. Will lunges, Robin sidesteps.
ROBIN: The horse is smarter than you are, Some of the men laugh. Will is incensed. Robin ducks and weaves, easily evading Will's repeated charges. Robin ducks right under the horse's belly.
ROBIN: Here, Will! You aim like a girl, Will stabs wildly, more and more frustrated. Laughter spreads, as Robin plays hide and seek around the horse's legs. Grabbing the end of the spear, he clowns a tug of war. Enraged, Will strains and tries to kick Robin away. Suddenly, Robin lets go. Unbalanced, Will flies back- wards off his mount. Robin snatches the spear and raises it over his fallen adversary. The crowd falls silent. Robin strikes. The point quivers in the ground below Will's crotch. Will wriggles in terror. Impaled, his pants rip open.
ROBIN: Thank the Lord you are not endowed like Bull. The crowd is convulsed with laughter. Robin catches his breath. Does not see Will, who grabs a heavy staff and runs at him. A strong hand grasps Will's arm as he is about to strike.
LITTLE JOHN: Bollocks, Will. Jus' bugger off, Overpowered, Will relents. With a defiant glance, he skulks away.
LITTLE JOHN: Ya got us by the short and curlies, Robin Hood. Now let's hear what ya got to bleedin' say.
ROBIN: Nottingham has taken from us everything we own. Now we are going to start taking from him.
LITTLE JOHN: 'Ow in bloody blazes are we gonna do that?
ROBIN: We are going to tax him.
ASLAN: Here they come.
ROBIN: How many?
ASLAN: Two wagons. Twenty escort.
ROBIN: Twenty? They usually have five.
SCOPE POV: barrels, and a tax wagon. The wagon is an armored box on wheels, with crossbow slits in the side. Guy of Gisborne commands the escort.
ROBIN: This is no ordinary convoy.
BULL: 'ow many?
ROBIN: Er, about ten. Why scare them? They can't count And they call me the barbarian.
ASLAN: And they call me the barbarian.
ROBIN: Let's go. Together they run down the hill, keeping low. Gisborne eyes the forest. The beer cart is steered by a fat red-faced FRIAR, raucously singing hymns and quaffing from a jug, which he repeatedly dips into one of the ARROWS WHISTLE in. The Friar yells and drops his jug. A soldier is hit. At the forest edge, four woodsmen reload their longbows. Dressed in green, their faces The mounted soldiers charge them. The woodsmen run into the trees. As the horsemen close in, the runners leap into a trench. Lift up matted screens of brush and grass. It's as if they disappeared. The soldiers slash wildly at the thick screens. More arrows fly. More soldiers fall. The others spin in confusion, trying to discern the enemy. More woods- men break from cover. Run down a narrow path. Gisborne urges his men to pursue. They ride in single file, beating their way through the tangled branches. The runners dive into the trees, as other men haul on ropes, raising a giant screen in the soldiers' path. The horses swerve, on the edge of a twenty-foot drop to the river gorge. Momentum carries many of them over the BACK ON ROADWAY wagon. Kick down the two drivers and take the reins, steering the wagon off the road. The archers inside are unable to fire at them. Little John leaps onto the beer cart, sending the Friar hurtling back among the barrels. The Friar slams his head and drops unconscious. John whips the horse, driving the cart after Robin. Another camouflage screen is lifted into place, covering their route.
ROBIN: Surrender your weapons. I give you my word you shall go free. In answer, a swordblade jabs up through the roof, near his feet.
ROBIN: Ah, I feared as much. He signals to Aslan, who steers the tax wagon into the river. Water floods in through the slits. Inside, panic. Drowning rats. The bowmen scramble out. What they see stops them dead. Both banks are men in green, longbows aimed directly at lock snaps. Little John pries open the lid. Reacts in astonishment. The trunk is filled to the brim with glittering gold coins. The woodsmen press around. Cheers of celebration.
COUNTRYSIDE: lock snaps. Little John pries open the lid. Reacts in astonishment. The trunk is filled to the brim with glittering gold coins. The woodsmen press around. Cheers of celebration.
LITTLE JOHN: ( awestruck ) I'll be buggered.
ROBIN: This treasure had a purpose. We must find out what. He turns at the sound of a brawl from the Friar's cart. The Friar is at the bottom of a struggling heap of bodies.
ROBIN: Get off him. He's a man of the Robin drags the men off. The Friar clambers to his feet. Around him are strewn battered and winded woodsmen.
FRIAR: The Lord's blessing on you, kind sir. These sinners were attempting to steal these libations destined for the monks of St. Catherine's. He indicates his cargo of barrels.
ROBIN: It appears to me, Reverend Friar, that many of the libations have found their way into your own esteemed person. Ignoring him, the Friar mounts the cart.
FRIAR: A thousand pardons, sir, but duty beckons. I must hasten on.
ROBIN: ( grabbing the bridle ) A moment, my reverend friend. You travel with poor company when you travel with Nottingham's soldiers.
BULL: Aye, tax him. This sparks a chorus of comments.
ROBIN: My men are thirsty and have much to celebrate.
FRIAR: Lord bless me, sir, are these your men? I had mistook them for common thieves. Kindly step Surely the Lord has the charity to spare a few barrels to good Christian men. The Friar relents, loosening his grip on the reins.
ROBIN: Surely the Lord has the charity to spare a few barrels to good Christian men. The Friar relents, loosening his grip on the reins.
FRIAR: Well, sir, if you wish them to share in the good Lord's brew. Casually reaching under the seat, he pulls out a club. Smites Robin with it.
FRIAR: . you must best me for it. Robin staggers. The Friar whips up the horse. Dazed, Robin grabs for the fat man's leg. Gets a holy sandal full in the face.
FRIAR: Giddyup, nag! The Friar's horse, as obese as his driver, slowly raises his head from the grass and ambles forward. Robin runs after them and dives at the Friar, toppling him from the You leave when I say. Scrambling to his feet, the Friar glances skyward.
ROBIN: You leave when I say. Scrambling to his feet, the Friar glances skyward.
FRIAR: Protect me, Lord. He sweeps his foot, knocking Robin's legs out from under him. Hurls his full body weight on top of him. Whooomf!
FRIAR: He bounces on Robin's stomach. Robin can barely breathe. The woodsmen are enjoying the spectacle.
FRIAR: Confess that Friar Tuck is a better, holier, and braver man than thou art, knave.
ROBIN: Never! Whoomf!
FRIAR: Yield, I say! Yield to Friar Desperate, Robin bites the Friar's leg. Tuck howls. Robin extricates himself, grabs for a weapon. Smashes the Friar's head with his drinking jug.
ROBIN: Yield yourself! He dives onto the Friar and hammers his head into the Yield to Robin Hood. Tuck holds up a hand in surrender. Robin eases off.
ROBIN: Yield to Robin Hood. Tuck holds up a hand in surrender. Robin eases off.
FRIAR: ( feeling his head ) Thank you, Lord, for teaching me Well, Friar Tuck. We have need of an honest man of God, to minister to these men and their families. What do you say?
ROBIN: Well, Friar Tuck. We have need of an honest man of God, to minister to these men and their families. What do you say? The Friar struggles to his feet. He reviews the motley faces of his potential flock. His eyes light on the grinning Saracen.
FRIAR: I'd rather roast in hell. He punches Robin in the gut.
FRIAR TUCK: profusely, grunting with strain. His horse contentedly He flicks the reins, steering the cart into camp. Women and children rush to greet their men. Jeer the roped soldier-prisoners. The Friar checks out his flock. A woman curtsies, another crosses herself, children touch his robe in wonder.
ROBIN: Giddyup, Friar. He flicks the reins, steering the cart into camp. Women and children rush to greet their men. Jeer the roped soldier-prisoners. The Friar checks out his flock. A woman curtsies, another crosses herself, children touch his robe in wonder.
ROBIN: What do you say now, Tuck? Here are the meek of the earth. Tuck surveys the hopeful, hungry faces. The little hamlet of half-built huts. He folds his hands in a moment of prayer.
FRIAR: The Lord moves in mysterious ways. I accept.
ROBIN: You will not regret it.
FRIAR: Aye, but you may.
ROBIN: Buy yourself a new son, Stephen.
FARMER: Thankee, Robin. Little John and Bull approach. John indicates the two prisoners roped to a nearby tree.
LITTLE JOHN: Cain't get a bleedin' squeak outa 'em, Rob.
BULL: They'd be spittin' it out good if they'd knowed anythin'.
LITTLE JOHN: Reckon the Cap'n knows summat, Rob, but stubborn ol' cocker 'e is.
ASLAN: Perhaps it is time for some heathen persuasion.
CAPTAIN: Spare your breath. I know nothing.
ROBIN: ( reasonable ) I believe you. But this Arab here, he's got it into his barbarian brain that you know a whole lot more than nothing.
ROBIN: I strongly advise you to talk. He hasn't eaten in weeks.
CAPTAIN: ( rising terror ) What does he want?
ROBIN: For Godsakes, get him off me!
CAPTAIN: For Godsakes, get him off me!
ROBIN: ( very deliberately ) No, Aslan. not this one, Aslan. . How about this other one?. Fatter, yes. more meat.
LITTLE JOHN: ( urgent ) No, Robin, no! They be God-fearin' I cannot stop him, John. Besides, if they will not tell what they know, then they must pay the price.
ROBIN: I cannot stop him, John. Besides, if they will not tell what they know, then they must pay the price.
LITTLE JOHN: Kill 'em aye, but not like this. 'Tain't Christian. Blood-curdling SCREAMS from behind the wagon where Aslan has dragged his victim. The Captain's face pales. Then lips. He munches the flesh from a long bone, on the end of which is the soldier's glove. the man's arm. Turning to Robin, Aslan shouts in Arabic and gesticulates wildly at the Captain.
CAPTAIN: What does he say?
ROBIN: Well, roughly, he says that he doesn't care for the way your friend tastes, and he wants you.
CAPTAIN: No, God, no! I'll talk. Just keep him away. Keep him away!
BEHIND WAGON: and trying to suppress his own laughter. Beside them lies a large chunk of venison. The man is unharmed, except that he's missing a glove.
LITTLE JOHN: Sure changed the color of 'is britches, didn't 'e?
ROBIN: Thanks to our cannibal friend. Aslan repeats his wildman act, munching on a chunk of Gonna laugh my bloody balls off.
LITTLE JOHN: Gonna laugh my bloody balls off.
BULL: Why'd the Sheriff be sendin' gold north o' the border?
ROBIN: To hire mercenaries. The Celts are savage tribesmen, trained to kill from birth.
LITTLE JOHN: Aye, the Romans built a bleedin' great wall to keep 'em out.
BULL: What does 'e want wi 'em?
ROBIN: Since he also has every Smith in the country working in his castle, we can assume he is planning a little war.
LITTLE JOHN: Agin' who?
ASLAN: INT. CASTLE ARMORY - NIGHT factory. His eyes glint with the reflections of the smithy's fires. A DOOR CRASHES open behind him. FOOTSTEPS. Paying no heed, he draws a sword from a furnace. It's blade white- Nottingham tests the sword against an anvil.
GISBORNE: We were ambushed. In Sherwood Nottingham tests the sword against an anvil.
NOTTINGHAM: Spanish steel, cousin. So much stronger than our native blades. Any losses?
GISBORNE: All the men are gone.
NOTTINGHAM: Yet again you are the sole survivor, cousin? Interesting. And the gold?
GISBORNE: Well, it er. disappeared.
NOTTINGHAM: Robin Hood?
GISBORNE: They were woodsmen, dressed in Robin Hood. He places a hand reassuringly on his cousin's shoulder.
NOTTINGHAM: Robin Hood. He places a hand reassuringly on his cousin's shoulder.
NOTTINGHAM: Cousin, we must be strong. We cannot allow this outlaw to make fools of us. Without warning, he drives the blade into Gisborne's And I cannot allow a lieutenant to fail me. It is indeed fine steel.
NOTTINGHAM: And I cannot allow a lieutenant to fail me. It is indeed fine steel.
FRIAR: God bless you, sir.
VILLAGER: An' Go' bless Robin 'Ood, friar. They says as 'ow none o' the Sheriff's cronies dare go within miles o' Sherwood for fear o' havin' their pockets pinched.
FRIAR: Ah, the good Lord giveth and the good Lord taketh away.
OLD WOMAN: Unless Robin Hood takes it first!
FRIAR: Good morrow, brothers.
MARIAN: ( to Robin ) How dare you!
ROBIN: Good morning, Lady Marian. In response, she starts pelting him with stones.
MARIAN: You send men to drag me from my home in the middle of the night, like some slave girl? Is this the way the famous Robin Hood treats a lady?
ROBIN: Ah well. er, let me finish this bath you wished me to take. Then I'll explain.
MARIAN: I demand an explanation right now!
ROBIN: If you will be patient, I could spare your propriety by.
MARIAN: I will decide when my propriety is compromised.
ROBIN: As you wish.
MARIAN: How dare you expose yourself to She slugs him. Robin stumbles backwards into the water. Bull grins, gesturing to Sarah and pointing to his own black eye.
BULL: The big 'un did the same to me.
LITTLE JOHN: ( to Wulf ) Right m'lad. Let's see how close you can git to that bugger.
LITTLE JOHN: Take a gander at this 'un, mates. Never seen nuthin' like it in my bloomin' life. Robin leads Marian through the camp. the beginnings of a village women doing laundry, kids playing, men prac- ticing archery and swordplay, others working on defenses, camouflaging a giant pit. Marian is impressed, but not about to admit it.
MARIAN: This better be damned important. Robin leads her into a hut. Inside is a trove of cap- tured loot purses, jewelry, weaponry, fancy coats and. the treasure chest. At Robin's nod, Bull throws back the lid. Marian is speechless.
ROBIN: Nottingham robs the poor. We rob Nottingham and give back to the poor.
MARIAN: Do you think he's going to let you get away with all this? The man is without mercy. He will annihilate you.
ROBIN: Somebody has to take a stand.
MARIAN: You're taking a stand with the lives of these people. These young ones.
MARIAN: What do you want from me?
ROBIN: Nottingham was sending this gold to buy reinforcements from the Celtic tribesmen. We need to warn King Richard.
MARIAN: Nottingham would not dare challenge the King.
ROBIN: The King is not in England to be challenged, is he? While he is away, he may lose his country. You are Richard's cousin. You can get word to him. He would believe you.
MARIAN: Now you want me to participate in your folly?
BOUQUET: to go. Sarah giggles as she takes her leave of Bull.
ROBIN: ( to Marian ) I am sending Duncan with you. Give him some warm food and a real bed. I grow tired of his Hah! I have endured more hardship in my lifetime than any man here.
DUNCAN: Hah! I have endured more hardship in my lifetime than any man here. Robin laughs and speaks to Marian in a stage whisper.
ROBIN: Don't tell him I told you, but he may be useful to you. There is no one to whom I would rather entrust your safety.
MARIAN: Duncan, you are most welcome. Taking the lead rein from Duncan's horse, she rides away.
ROBIN: ( calls after her ) Will you send word to the King?
MARIAN: I'll think about it.
MARIAN: It is a personal matter, my Lord, but one of vital importance.
BISHOP: I understand, my dear lady. This is my most trusted emissary. He hands the letter to a solemn courier.
MARIAN: You will travel to France immediately. You must give this directly into the hands of the King, and him alone. The courier bows in acknowledgement. Marian indicates My lady-in-waiting will accompany Surprised, the courier glances at the Bishop.
MARIAN: My lady-in-waiting will accompany Surprised, the courier glances at the Bishop.
BISHOP: My dear, I could not vouch for her safety. The journey is fraught with danger.
MARIAN: I appreciate your concern, my Lord, but Sarah is an accomplished rider. I must insist that she goes along.
BISHOP: ( a beat ) As you wish.
ROBIN: We have to be ready to move camp at any time. The only way we can be attacked is from the Nottingham Road. We hide lookouts in the trees, here and here. If they see soldiers, they shoot warning arrows. Whistles by day, fire by night. Wulf runs up to Little John in panic.
WULF: Father! Come quick. Mother's INT. WOODSMEN'S HUT - DAY looks up from Fanny's side.
FRIAR: The child comes early. Fanny screams. John kneels beside her, taking her head.
LITTLE JOHN: Hush, m'lass. Ya'll be fine.
FANNY: 'S not like t'others, John. Oh God, it pains me so.
LITTLE JOHN: ( angrily, to Tuck ) Ya're sittin' thar like a fat sow. Help her, man, help her!
FRIAR: I am doing all I can. Aslan appears in the doorway, with Robin. Whips back the blanket. Fanny's chest is covered with black squirming By Allah, leeches! He starts to pull the parasites off. Tuck jumps at him.
ASLAN: By Allah, leeches! He starts to pull the parasites off. Tuck jumps at him.
FRIAR: Get away from her! Aslan pushes him away, continuing his work.
ASLAN: Blood is like air. If she loses blood, she and the child will die. John is paralyzed with confusion. Tuck appeals to Robin.
FRIAR: He lies. He is the devil's seed, sent to lead us astray.
ASLAN: Fool, both the Bible and the Koran instruct us to preserve life. Tuck raises an arm to strike Aslan. Robin blocks the blow. Aslan gently touches the mother's stomach.
ASLAN: ( soothing ) Your baby has not turned. It cannot be born without help.
FRIAR: What do you know, you damned If you will allow me, I can help her. It will not be without Do not listen to him! He will kill her.
ASLAN: ( to John ) If you will allow me, I can help her. It will not be without Do not listen to him! He will kill her.
FRIAR: Do not listen to him! He will kill her.
ASLAN: If you do not listen to me, she will certainly die. And the child, too. Fanny cries out. John looks to Robin, pleading for The good Friar has done all he can. I suggest you let the Arab If I am wrong, and they die, then you may take my life. John's eyes meet his wife's. She nods.
ROBIN: The good Friar has done all he can. I suggest you let the Arab If I am wrong, and they die, then you may take my life. John's eyes meet his wife's. She nods.
LITTLE JOHN: So be it.
FRIAR: Then it will be on your head. I have warned you. He storms out. All business, Aslan speaks to Wulf.
ASLAN: Bring me a needle, thread, water, a skinning knife, and burning Wulf runs to obey. John looks horrified. Robin eases him outside, then returns to Aslan's side. They
ROBIN: What are you going to do?
ASLAN: The child must be taken out by the knife.
ROBIN: The knife?
ASLAN: I have seen it many times with Horses? By the Lord, what are her chances?
ROBIN: Horses? By the Lord, what are her chances?
ASLAN: After wasting so much blood. not good.
ROBIN: Now you tell me!
ASLAN: ( to Fanny ) Are you ready?. Bite down on this. Robin, hold her steady.
OUTSIDE: Little John paces. Wulf comes out of the hut. Families hover and wait. From inside, MUFFLED GROANS.
FRIAR: I tell you, the barbarian is killing her.
INSIDE: Is she gone?
ROBIN: Is she gone?
ROBIN: What did you say? Aslan holds up a bloody struggling infant.
ASLAN: It is a boy. The mother revives. Aslan places the child on her Your son, my lady. Robin, hold her skin together while I sew her He picks up the needle and thread. Robin's eyes turn to the woman's abdomen. He faints.
ASLAN: Your son, my lady. Robin, hold her skin together while I sew her He picks up the needle and thread. Robin's eyes turn to the woman's abdomen. He faints.
LITTLE JOHN: child high for all to see. Tuck sits miserably to one side. Bloody and exhausted, Aslan appears at the hut door. Tuck jumps to his feet, drawing his knife. Heads turn. Tense silence. Robin appears, unsteadily, behind Aslan. Watches, ready to intervene. Tuck stares at Aslan. Raises his blade. and slices down across his own wrist.
FRIAR: This day God has taught me a fine He hands Aslan the knife and extends his bloodied wrist.
FRIAR: I would be honored. Aslan slices his own wrist. The two wrists clasp together in the universal sign of brotherhood. Everyone You are a good man, my barbarian We shall open a barrel together and I shall do my damndest to save your heathen soul.
FRIAR: You are a good man, my barbarian We shall open a barrel together and I shall do my damndest to save your heathen soul.
ASLAN: Alas, I am not permitted.
FRIAR: Our God made this brew, brother. I merely combined the ingredients. Do you dare to insult his works?
SARAH: What is wrong?
COURIER: My horse seems to be favoring a foreleg. Sarah leans down to look and the courier cudgels her across the neck. She falls from the saddle, unconscious.
MARIAN: Who is there? Duncan!
MARIAN: Off, Nicodemus. Go find mice. She sighs with relief. is grabbed from behind. A masked SOLDIER.
SOLDIER: We meet again. He reveals a large scar on his wrist removes his mask the man who attacked her earlier. He prods her with his sword.
SOLDIER: Drop your blade.
MARIAN: You are still overmatched, soldier. She drops the sword. He hurls her against the table. Lays his blade against her chest.
SOLDIER: You owe me favors, wench. Bare your breasts. or I will do it for you. Resignedly, she raises a hand to loosen the string on her dress. With the other hand she reaches behind her, grabs a pepper bowl. Flips the contents into his face. Screaming, he grabs his face. She reaches for her dagger. He slashes with his sword. She backs to the fireplace, grabs a spit of roasted chickens. drives the point clean through his chest. He stares in shock at his own blood pouring from the cooked fowls pinned to his breast. FOOTSTEPS. masked soldiers converge from both sides of the house, dragging the servants. Duncan is shoved through the door.
DUNCAN: I am sorry, my lady. There were too many. She stares at the invaders with studied calm.
MARIAN: Is there something you need, gentlemen? I remember no masked ball on my calendar.
AERIAL SHOT: intersected by brown roads and tracks. We are LOOKING AT a detailed scale model of Sherwood Forest in.
REDHEAD BARON: Forget about Locksley. He is no How can we control all England if we cannot control our own county? The people are turning him into a hero.
NOTTINGHAM: How can we control all England if we cannot control our own county? The people are turning him into a hero.
GREYBEARD BARON: It is impossible to attack him in the forest. We have tried everything. He is cunning.
NOTTINGHAM: Then we will be more cunning. I must be rid of him. We may not be able to intercept his next warning to the King. Sounds of COMMOTION outside. The door swings open. Framed in the doorway is a colossus in black armor. His helmet is the head of a dragon. He slowly raises the visor. Deep tribal scars on his cheeks. Implacable ferocity in his eyes.
CELTIC CHIEFTAIN: I want the heads of the men who stole my gold.
NOTTINGHAM: Welcome, sir. We were discussing how to rid ourselves of those very men. The outlaws who band with Robin Hood.
REDHEAD BARON: My Lord Nottingham, I must protest. It is a mistake to ally ourselves with foreigners.
GREYBEARD BARON: What can these Celts do that we burning log. The Baron backs away in fear. The log spits sparks as the Chieftain raises it above his head. and drives it into his own palm. He stares unblinking at the Baron, holding the log to his hand for a full three seconds. An awed silence. Nottingham grins, delighted with the demonstration. He deposits his white rat onto the model.
NOTTINGHAM: This rat Hood has hidden out in the forest. He resists all our assaults with traps and devices, while he robs us blind. We must bring him out and destroy him. The rat has scurried into the shelter of the model trees. The Chieftain watches impassively, then calmly touches the log to the model. The trees ignite. the RAT SQUEALS in terror and runs. The Chieftain cuts off its escape, setting fire to more trees. again. and again. The Sheriff watches the flames, fascinated.
FRIAR: Come, you son of Saladin. A toast to all of Jehovah's children. The saved and the damned.
ASLAN: This must be a truly evil potion, to make the soul feel this good. He downs the entire jug in one long draught. Refills it.
ASLAN: Come, holy man. A toast to all of Allah's children. The true believers and the fat infidels. Tuck laughs and drinks. Aslan sways and topples at the Friar's feet. Heaves up all over the holy sandals. Tuck looks at Robin.
FRIAR: How can these Arabs hold Jerusalem when they can't even hold their EXT. FOREST LANE - DAWN EXT. WOODSMEN'S CAMP - DAWN The Friar and the Saracen lie head to head on the dewey grass. Tuck snores. Robin shakes Aslan, who grabs for his weapon. The hangover hits him like a mallet. He clutches his temples.
ROBIN: The dancing demon! Good morning.
ASLAN: ( wincing ) If it was Jehovah who created this brew, he is truly wise. He built the punishment into the crime.
ROBIN: They need help.
BULL: A bloke wearin' a mask o' the Druids rode by. Tossed 'im down.
ROBIN: Are you sure it was a Druid mask? Damn them to hell! They must have Marian. Do you know where they The Gregor Caves, I 'eard tell.
BULL: The Gregor Caves, I 'eard tell.
ASLAN: We will go there.
ROBIN: No! You stay here, dammit! I will go alone.
ASLAN: You forget yourself. I am not your servant.
ROBIN: Then be my friend. There are women and children here in greater need of your courage.
ASLAN: ( considers ) Take my eyes, then.
ROBIN: ( under his breath )
MARIAN: Death is not to be feared, Robin. Embrace it. Her LAUGH ECHOES around the cave, as if hundreds of lost souls are laughing with her. Robin crawls away, cover- ing his ears. Marian lifts his face to hers.
MARIAN: Drink this. Weakly, Robin tries to push away the cup. Her hand grips his chin, forcing his mouth open.
MARIAN: The liquid trickles over his lips. He tries to focus. Her features are BLURRED, her voice hypnotic.
MARIAN: Look at me. Listen to me. You belong to me. Your soul is mine. You will obey my every word. Do you understand? Her face is inches from his. He tries to pull away, his subconscious sounding alarms.
ROBIN: Why, Marian?
MARIAN: Because you love me. Say it. You love me. Say it!
ROBIN: ( sinking ) I love you.
MARIAN: Kiss me. He gives himself to her. Their lips meet. something changes in his vision. Her eyes glow red. Her face starts to shrivel He is kissing the wrinkled lips of He pulls away. strong arms grab him. He shakes his head, trying to make sense. Through his BLURRED vision, we see he is surrounded by masked men.
ROBIN: ( slurred ) Where is Marian?
MORTIANNA: She is with friends. Your resistence is strong, but useless. Sign this. You are a Druid like your father. You consort with the devil. Your confession will be witnessed by the Bishop of Hereford. A guard forces Robin's hand across the page. then cries out, clutching his back. An arrow lodged be- tween his shoulders. In the cave mouth are Wulf, bow in hand, Bull kneeling beside Sarah's corpse, and Aslan.
MORTIANNA: ( horror ) The painted man!
ASLAN: Behind you! Too late. A sword is driven through Bull's gut. Aslan grabs the attacker by the neck and pile-drives him into the cave wall. The man's SKULL CRACKS against the rocks. Aslan runs to Robin's side, as Wulf hurries to Bull's. Robin is slumped against a rock.
ROBIN: ( groggy )
BULL: Ya be sure Sarah gits a Christian burial. Promise me, boy.
WULF: I promise. Aslan stumbles at the edge of a deep crevasse. Far be- low he sees Mortianna, clambering down the steep rock. For a second their eyes meet. She hisses venom, hatred, fear then is gone.
ASLAN: They have poisoned you. There are herbs that can alter a man's brain. I know of only one cure. He drops to one knee, slams Robin violently across the other. Slaps him on the back and forces his fingers down his throat.
ASLAN: It worked for me this very You will thank me for this later.
ROBIN: You have fulfilled your vow. Now you can leave.
ASLAN: Your gratitude warms my heart.
ROBIN: You ignored my request.
ASLAN: It is fortunate that I did.
ROBIN: Because of you, another good man is dead.
ASLAN: He urged me to bring him. He was a brave man and I grieve for him. Praise be to Allah that I do not grieve for you also. Or for my broken vow.
ROBIN: To hell with your damn vow.
ASLAN: I am glad you are feeling Ahead of them, Wulf shouts and reins in. He points into the distance. A huge cloud of smoke is darkening the The forest! Ride!
ROBIN: The forest! Ride!
LITTLE JOHN: Ya'll be jus' fine. Lil' smoke ain't gonna kill ya.
WILL SCARLET: ( running up ) It's burning for miles, John. It's hotter than hades, and them damn screens ain't worth nothing.
LITTLE JOHN: 'Ere, lads. Over 'ere! We must make a stand.
LITTLE JOHN: Damn y'all! Ya're no more use than a load o' wet farts.
WILL SCARLET: Where's that damn Locksley? I'll swear he betrayed us.
LITTLE JOHN: Bollocks, Will. Quit yer bloody
HAL: C. cccc.
LITTLE JOHN: C. ccc? What the bloody hell ya sayin'? Cows?. Cowards?.
HAL: Cccc. elts!
WILL SCARLET: Celts? Where?
HAL: ( pointing behind Gggg. God help us.
NOTTINGHAM: I want prisoners. The Chieftain does not turn his head.
CHIEFTAIN: We came to fight.
NOTTINGHAM: Nevertheless, I need prisoners. With only a short flick of his head, the Chieftain spits. Nottingham waves his arm, signalling his own foot sol- diers to advance. The Chieftain raises his sword. Instantly a tumultuous chilling roar from his warriors. They charge forward.
WILL SCARLET: What are we gonna do, John?
LITTLE JOHN: Stop 'ere and flippin' well fight 'em, that's what. Whadya say, Half-hearted support from about a dozen men, including Nay, reveren'. Ya best be goin' wi' the wenches.
LITTLE JOHN: Nay, reveren'. Ya best be goin' wi' the wenches.
FRIAR: This holy man believes in doing God's work with his hands. He snatches a quarterstaff. John slaps him on the back. The men are encouraged.
LITTLE JOHN: Let's give 'em a bloody good wallopin' an' all, lads.
ROBIN: Wulf, stay here. I need your He climbs onto Wulf's horse, steers it right at the heart of the enemy. Aslan blocks his way, grabbing his reins.
ROBIN: What are you doing? Out of my I saved your life. I will not let you give it away for no Out of my way, damn you!
ASLAN: I saved your life. I will not let you give it away for no Out of my way, damn you!
ROBIN: Out of my way, damn you!
ASLAN: Does the witch still have possession of your senses? If we meet up with the survivors we may yet give them some help. And do some damage to the enemy.
FRIAR: Surely you would not harm a man of the cloth? The man swings, Tuck sidesteps.
FRIAR: You would? Then to hellfire with He pummels the man to the ground with his staff. The woodsmen are broken into two groups. One group, including Will, is surrounded and surrenders. The others fight on. Bleeding from several wounds, Little John is surrounded by four Celts. He spins, challenging them, spitting out expletives. Defiant to the last. suddenly his attackers are hurled aside. Robin rides right through them, slashing with his sword.
LITTLE JOHN: 'Bout bleedin' time, mush. Tuck is driven to the ground. his assailant is deliver- ing the lethal blow, when Aslan cuts him down. Tuck glances heavenwards.
FRIAR: Thank you, Lord. And thank you, Allah.
LITTLE JOHN: Git the bleedin' 'ell outa there, ya li'l bugger. Distracted, he doesn't see a Celt swing at his back. but Wulf's arrow pierces the man's adam's apple. He freezes in mid-air, before toppling at John's feet. When John turns back, Wulf is being dragged away by three of the Sherrif's men. He attempts to pursue, but is intercepted by two more Celts. and struck down. Aslan charges between the two Celts. Slashes down with both swords. Both men topple to the ground Suddenly all is quiet. The smoking clearing is a mass of fallen bodies. Only four men seem to be alive. Robin, Aslan, Tuck, who is slouched against a tree gasping for breath, and Hal, who kneels clutching his wounded shoulder. Robin dismounts and runs to Little John. Overwhelmed and exhausted, he slumps over the giant's unmoving form.
LITTLE JOHN: Don't 'ee start bleedin' blubberin', or ya'll make me bloody vomit. Robin manages a relieved smile. Aslan strides over. All around them lie slain Celts and woodsmen.
ASLAN: It was a fiendish mind that planned this campaign.
ROBIN: You were an honor to your countrymen today, Aslan. You fought better than twenty English knights.
ASLAN: This war is the God of Abraham against the forces of evil.
ROBIN: Well, the war is over. He stares across the desolate clearing.
ROBIN: There is too much blood on my INT. CASTLE DUNGEONS - NIGHT lowed by guards, Nottingham enters the torture chamber where the captured woodsmen are chained, among them Wulf and Will Scarlet. Putrid ankle-deep water on the floor, walls encrusted with dried blood and grime. Nottingham walks up to the FIRST MAN. Wry smile.
NOTTINGHAM: ( wry smile ) Would you prefer pain or death?
FIRST WOODSMAN: Dignity masking his terror. Nottingham appears to The man is dragged away by guards. The next PRISONER
NOTTINGHAM: Torture him. The man is dragged away by guards. The next PRISONER
NOTTINGHAM: And you? Pain or death?
NOTTINGHAM: Torture him. you see, it makes no difference.
WILL SCARLET: I will kill him for you.
WULF: Will, no! Nottingham strides up to Will, drawing his sword.
NOTTINGHAM: Why would I need you?
WILL SCARLET: All your attempts to kill him have failed. Your army failed. Your Celtic mercenaries failed. Nottingham places his sword point against Will's throat.
NOTTINGHAM: And you can succeed?
WILL SCARLET: I am one of his men. He would never suspect me.
WULF: He knows you always hated him, He is a trusting fool. He will believe me. If he doesn't, he will kill me and you have lost Nottingham slides his blade between Will's teeth.
WILL SCARLET: He is a trusting fool. He will believe me. If he doesn't, he will kill me and you have lost Nottingham slides his blade between Will's teeth.
NOTTINGHAM: If you fail, I will personally cut out your lying tongue. He withdraws the blade. Will tries to smile.
WILL SCARLET: And if I succeed?
NOTTINGHAM: His friends will.. . torture him! He turns back to Will. A smile of mock apology.
NOTTINGHAM: It will look better.
ROBIN: My pride brought us to this.
ASLAN: No, friend. It was you who gave these men pride.
ROBIN: I gave them nothing but false hope. Tomorrow we will disperse. These people can move south and start over. You must go home and win your Jasmina.
ASLAN: And you?
ROBIN: I am no longer your responsibility.
ASLAN: That is for me to decide.
ROBIN: ( raging ) Damn you, Arab. I want you out of my life. Can't you understand that? Go home. Go back to your own kind.
ROBIN: Damn you, too, Father. You reared a coward and a fool. He hurls the medallion. it catches on a low-hanging NOVEMBER MOON dangling in its center. the last thing Robin sees before his eyes close into troubled sleep. The white moon against the black sky.
NOVEMBER MOON: dangling in its center. the last thing Robin sees before his eyes close into troubled sleep. The white moon against the black sky.
MARIAN: Kiss me, Robin. The noose tightens on her neck. As she dies, her face shrivels into the cackling features of Mortianna. Next, Robin's father. He stares accusingly right AT us.
LOCKSLEY: Why have you betrayed me? Why? Before he pulls the rope, the executioner peels back his hood. It is Robin. Gloating, he hauls on the rope. His laughter blends with that of Mortianna in a hideous ROBIN'S FACE a RUNNING RIVER. Robin is washing, trying to drive away the horror.
ROBIN'S FACE: a RUNNING RIVER. Robin is washing, trying to drive away the horror.
ROBIN: Will! I thought you were taken.
WILL SCARLET: I was.
ROBIN: How did you escape?
WILL SCARLET: I promised to kill you.
ROBIN: And will you? Before Will can answer, Little John runs up. Grabs Will's throat.
LITTLE JOHN: I'll wring yer scrawny neck, Will Scarlet. I'd be doin' yer a bloody favor an' all. Quickly, others arrive. Aslan, Tuck, Hal, Fanny, with kids clinging to her skirts.
FANNY: Afore ya kill 'im, John, ask 'im if Wulf be still alive. Will is choking, unable to speak. John loosens his hold just enough for Will to splutter out.
WILL SCARLET: Y. e.
LITTLE JOHN: Git us a rope, Hal, and we'll put the bleedin' weasel outa 'is John, wait. Let us hear what he has to say.
ROBIN: John, wait. Let us hear what he has to say.
LITTLE JOHN: No bugger 'scapes the Sheriff, 'nless 'e's linin' 'is bloomin' A traitor sneaks in and out under cover of darkness. Will walked in and announced himself.
ROBIN: A traitor sneaks in and out under cover of darkness. Will walked in and announced himself.
LITTLE JOHN: ( dismissive ) Aye. 'E always did 'ave balls o' Let's sss. string 'im up.
HAL: Let's sss. string 'im up.
ROBIN: Let him speak. John reluctantly moves his hold from Will's neck to his Search 'im, Hal. 'E'll 'ave a bloody blade on 'im somewheres. Will eyes the accusing faces. Hal searches, lifts Will's shirt. His whole skin is lacerated with deep gashes and fresh burns.
LITTLE JOHN: Search 'im, Hal. 'E'll 'ave a bloody blade on 'im somewheres. Will eyes the accusing faces. Hal searches, lifts Will's shirt. His whole skin is lacerated with deep gashes and fresh burns.
LITTLE JOHN: Bugger me. He steps back. Ready to listen.
WILL SCARLET: I bring a message from Nottingham. Our men are to be hung in the square on Saturday. At high noon.
FANNY: What about my boy?
WILL SCARLET: The boy, too. Ten men in all. Fanny drops her head on John's shoulder.
WILL SCARLET: Their deaths are a warning. Anyone who associates with the outlaw Hood is to suffer the same fate. Man, woman, or child. Even anyone who so much as utters his Robin Hood! Robin Hood! Robin May as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb.
FRIAR: Robin Hood! Robin Hood! Robin May as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb.
WILL SCARLET: The hangings are to be part of the celebration for the Sheriff's Marriage, eh? What lucky wench gits to play with the Sheriff's Will turns his gaze directly on Robin.
LITTLE JOHN: Marriage, eh? What lucky wench gits to play with the Sheriff's Will turns his gaze directly on Robin.
WILL SCARLET: Lady Marian.
FRIAR: He takes a bride of royal blood?
LITTLE JOHN: Aye, and then with King Richard gone, he takes the bloody throne. Everyone reacts with shock. Only Robin appears unsur- You were to use this news to get close to me, and then kill me? Right, Will?
ROBIN: You were to use this news to get close to me, and then kill me? Right, Will?
WILL SCARLET: ( sly grin ) Not straightway, of course.
ROBIN: What is your intention, Will?
WILL SCARLET: That depends on you, Locksley.
ROBIN: How so?
WILL SCARLET: I've never trusted you, that's no secret. What I wanna know is, are you gonna finish what you started?
WILL SCARLET: Will ya stay and keep us fightin' till every man jack of us is dead? Or will you run like the spoiled little rich boy I always took you You present quite a choice. What would you have me do, Will?
ROBIN: You present quite a choice. What would you have me do, Will?
WILL SCARLET: If you run, I will kill you.
ROBIN: And if I stay, will you all stay with me? Robin checks the other faces.
ASLAN: To the end, friend.
FRIAR: If my heathen brother stays, I Mmmm. meee. tttt. He can't get it out. Little John covers Hal's mouth.
HAL: Mmmm. meee. tttt. He can't get it out. Little John covers Hal's mouth.
LITTLE JOHN: 'E's in. We're all bloody in. Daft buggers.
ROBIN: There's your answer, Will. We finish it.
WULF: If it be your biddin' that this be my last night o' life, Lord, gimme the pluck to die proud. An' look 'ee kindly on my folks an' the young 'uns.
BRANCHES: EXT. SHERWOOD FOREST - DAWN Aslan is crushing charcoal into a mixture of yellow powder, which is turning black. Tuck approaches.
FRIAR: Lord, grant us the courage to endure, and if you're as smart as I believe you are, grant us victory. and the victuals to celebrate it with.
FRIAR: Will you pray with me, son of I have prayed for you, often, my brother. But, let us put prayer aside and help our gods in a more practical manner. I must reveal to you the mysteries of the black
ASLAN: I have prayed for you, often, my brother. But, let us put prayer aside and help our gods in a more practical manner. I must reveal to you the mysteries of the black
ROBIN: Will it work? Aslan throws a handful of powder into the firel A fire- ball rips ten feet in the air. Tuck falls on his ass in terror.
ROBIN: ( impressed ) You are truly a wizard.
ASLAN: There is no such thing. But if there was. . I would surely be one. Robin reaches out and shakes Aslan's hand. A moment of bonding. He moves on to the others, clasping each man's hand as he speaks.
ROBIN: We have no armored knights, no glorious banners. But I am honored to be going to battle in this company. Today we fight not just for the lives of our friends, but to save all England. A moment of tension before Will takes the proferred hand.
ROBIN: We may be only six men, but.
FANNY: She strides towards them from the trees.
LITTLE JOHN: What in blazes ya doin', woman? Where's the little 'uns?
FANNY: Them's safe, wi' my mother. Robin, I been to town an' seen the scaffold and the guard towers.
LITTLE JOHN: Ya gone bleedin' cracked, girl?
FANNY: You go an' birth eight babies and then you can come an' tell me 'bout hurtin', ya big ox. I ain't gonna sit aroun' an' let one o' 'em die, neither.
LITTLE JOHN: Ya should be bloody well mindin' the other seven. Tell 'er, Rob. Robin starts to draw a diagram on the ground with a Fanny, show me the exact location of the scaffold. Little John double-takes.
ROBIN: Fanny, show me the exact location of the scaffold. Little John double-takes.
NOTTINGHAM: How is my bride? Marian smiles as he leans toward her. and spits in his Ah. You are overwhelmed with He slowly wipes off the spittle. and slaps her hard.
NOTTINGHAM: Ah. You are overwhelmed with He slowly wipes off the spittle. and slaps her hard.
MARIAN: ( calm, uncowed ) I will never marry you.
MORTIANNA: Hold her! Marian struggles against her bonds.
MARIAN: Get away from me, you disgusting hag. I will not. augh! The guards viciously restrain her, forcing her mouth open. Mortianna pours the blood-red liquid down her throat. Marian fights, gagging and choking. until the drug takes its effect. She slumps forward. Nottingham watches with amusement.
NOTTINGHAM: ( to Mortianna ) When we are married, thirty of the northern barons will pledge me their support as king. As you
NOTTINGHAM: What do you see in the portents? Mortianna rocks on her heels, clutching her taloned hands to her sides. She chants, fingering the bloody stones.
MORTIANNA: The union. The blood of the lion and the house of Nottingham. New faith. New power. New souls. She stares at Nottingham, her red eyes demented.
MORTIANNA: If there is no union, there will be darkness, despair, death. Di not give me riddles, woman. We are to be married within hours. How can we be in danger?
NOTTINGHAM: Di not give me riddles, woman. We are to be married within hours. How can we be in danger?
MORTIANNA: The blood does not lie.
NOTTINGHAM: ( shouting ) Tell me how it will result.
MORTIANNA: I have told you what I know.
NOTTINGHAM: Confound you, crone. Without my protection, the people would hunt you down, rip out your black heart and burn it. Mortianna runs at him. Points her bony finger at his Without me, you are nothing. You are straw, a fleabite, a speck. Laugh, fool. I birthed you from this body. I stole a babe in this very castle, and killed it so that you might rise in its place. You are my son. Together we are strong. Now is not the time to doubt. Now is the time to believe, to be bold. The bold will prevail.
MORTIANNA: Without me, you are nothing. You are straw, a fleabite, a speck. Laugh, fool. I birthed you from this body. I stole a babe in this very castle, and killed it so that you might rise in its place. You are my son. Together we are strong. Now is not the time to doubt. Now is the time to believe, to be bold. The bold will prevail.
GUARD: What you got there, Father?
FRIAR: The Lord's finest brew for the good Nottingham's fighting men. It has a mighty kick.
GUARD: ( smiling ) I'll warrant. Pass.
WILL SCARLET: Sheriff! My Lord Sheriff! I have word for you! Of Robin Hood! Nottingham shouts to one of his mounted guards, who rides over, grabs Will by the collar, and drags him to his Ah, the turncoat. Did you succeed?
NOTTINGHAM: Ah, the turncoat. Did you succeed?
WILL SCARLET: I found his lair, but alas he still The Sheriff strikes down with his armored hand. Will Stretch his neck with the others. Hands yank Will to his feet. Dazed, he tries to speak. Disinterested, Nottingham turns away, until he catches.
NOTTINGHAM: Stretch his neck with the others. Hands yank Will to his feet. Dazed, he tries to speak. Disinterested, Nottingham turns away, until he catches.
WILL SCARLET: .He. He. is here!
NOTTINGHAM: Locksley, here? Where ? Will struggles to get free of his holders.
WILL SCARLET: Call off your dogs.
NOTTINGHAM: Release him!. Now, where is he?
WILL SCARLET: I want your word, in front of these witnesses. If I tell you, I will go free.
NOTTINGHAM: ( scoffs ) We will find him.
WILL SCARLET: He is concealed. He is going to free the prisoners and stop the Nottingham's jaw tightens. Eyes the prisoners, the Put Hood in my hands, you go free.
NOTTINGHAM: Put Hood in my hands, you go free.
WILL SCARLET: With the reward. Ten thousand Damn your worthless hide! Just tell me where he is.
NOTTINGHAM: Damn your worthless hide! Just tell me where he is.
WILL SCARLET: The reward! The parade of prisoners reaches them. Seeing Will, Wulf charges at him, screaming in blind rage. Soldiers grab Wulf. Throw him down, kicking and beating. Voices in the crowd plead to let him be. Someone tries to intervene, gets hurled down.
NOTTINGHAM: ( to Will ) You'll get your reward. Where is he?
FRIAR: Out of the way. Make way for the Lord's business.
NOTTINGHAM: Step down, friar.
FRIAR: As you wish, sire. Is there something amiss?
NOTTINGHAM: This man claims you have outlaws concealed in these barrels. Among them the cursed Robin Hood. Tuck glares at Will with unconcealed hatred.
FRIAR: This man will rot in hell as a knave and a liar. These are libations for the celebration of your lordship's nuptials.
NOTTINGHAM: Break one open!
FRIAR: ( nervous ) Why waste fine vintage, my lord?
WILL SCARLET: Try another. There are many barrels, only a few outlaws. A drum roll. The Sheriff's attention turns to the scaffold, where the first victim is escorted up the steps Wulf. Tense, Tuck pulls a tinder box from his robes, strikes a flame.
SENTRY: What is your business, woman?
FANNY: Ain't doin' no 'arm, m'dear. Likes a good 'angin', I do. Luvly view up 'ere, ain't it? She gestures below. The Sentry looks, then turns back to her. notices the rope. With all her might, Fanny rams his head into the stone battlement. Twice. Three times. He slumps unconscious.
WOUNDED SOLDIER: Give room for a fightin' man and his ma. Step aside, or I'll make ya. I wanna see the bastards walk on air.
FANNY: 'Bout time, ya gurt lug. She wrenches the longbow from his back, fumbles for an We be too late.
FANNY: We be too late.
HAL: Here. By God. Let's fight 'em!
WOODSMAN: Hal! What happened to your It's gg. ggg. g..oh crap! A guard attacks, Hal fells him.
HAL: It's gg. ggg. g..oh crap! A guard attacks, Hal fells him.
HAL: Take that, ya mug. No stutter this time! The woodsmen join battle with the The Chieftain cudgels his Celt attacker across the head. The boar's head helmet tumbles. revealing Aslan.
CHIEFTAIN: Impostor! You dishonor the clan. Aslan retreats, fending off the Chieftain's shattering FROM PARAPET Wulf struggle to his feet. A Celt sneaks up behind him.
FROM PARAPET: Wulf struggle to his feet. A Celt sneaks up behind him.
LITTLE JOHN: Fight fair.
LITTLE JOHN: .Or don't fight at all.
ON SCENE: out, slashing down. Sends two Celts hurtling down the trap hole. Will battles the Sheriff. A reprise of his own fight with Robin, the roles reversed. The Sheriff, armed and mounted, flails at Will, who, unarmed, dodges in and around the horse's legs. Aslan and the Chieftain are locked in mortal combat. Aslan stumbles back and falls. The Chieftain swipes at his head. Aslan rolls aside. The sword smashes wood. Tuck surrounded, rolls another smoking BARREL. It
GREYBEARD BARON: Up there! No mercy, shoot them!
ON SCAFFOLD: Wulf guards the steps, beating back all comers.
ON SCENE: soldier, takes his sword, and whirls back at the Chieftain. His blows have no effect on the Scot's black The Sheriff rears his horse. hooves flail.. knocking Will to his knees. The Sheriff lunges. Desperate, Will grasps the sword, ignoring the pain. a tug of war. Blood pours from Will's hands, where the blade cuts in. He suddenly lets go. Nottingham topples from his horse. Will leaps on him.
WILL SCARLET: Pain or death, you butcher? The Sheriff's men drag Will off before he can choke him. Raging, Nottingham climbs to his feet. Will is held by four men.
NOTTINGHAM: Here's another message to Robin Hood, written in your blood. He drives his sword repeatedly, insanely, into Will's It's over, fool. You can kill my body, but you cannot kill our He finally drops. Nottingham heads for the castle. Robin attempts to follow. He swings from the noose, using the rope to vault over the surrounding soldiers. As he lands, he is waylaid by one of the barons and his It's Hood! Get him! The Chieftain knocks Aslan down. Aslan loses his sword.
WILL SCARLET: It's over, fool. You can kill my body, but you cannot kill our He finally drops. Nottingham heads for the castle. Robin attempts to follow. He swings from the noose, using the rope to vault over the surrounding soldiers. As he lands, he is waylaid by one of the barons and his It's Hood! Get him! The Chieftain knocks Aslan down. Aslan loses his sword.
REDHEAD BARON: It's Hood! Get him! The Chieftain knocks Aslan down. Aslan loses his sword.
CHIEFTAIN: I am iron. I am rock. I am your Aslan spots one of John's arrows protruding from a dead Celt's back. Scrambles over and tears it out.
ASLAN: You talk too much! He leaps. rams the arrow through the Chieftain's mouthpiece. out the back of his neck. The Chieftain grabs his helmet, trying to rip it off. He topples, his life's blood gushing from both sides of his neck. Aslan plants a foot on the slain warrior.
ASLAN: Englishmen! I am not one of you, yet I fight for you. Against a tyrant. Join me now. Join Robin The onlookers are inspired. Grabbing weapons from fallen soldiers, many join the fray.
NOTTINGHAM: Lower the portcullis! Now! A guard winds down the giant gate. Nottingham hurls him Too slow, fool! He hacks at the ropes. The gate slices down like a guillotine, pinning soldiers and peasants alike. Fighting his way towards the gate, Robin sees with dismay that the portcullis is closed. Weakening, he staves off the redhead baron's vicious assault. Suddenly peasants are swarming over his attacker. The baron is dragged off and trampled down.
NOTTINGHAM: Too slow, fool! He hacks at the ropes. The gate slices down like a guillotine, pinning soldiers and peasants alike. Fighting his way towards the gate, Robin sees with dismay that the portcullis is closed. Weakening, he staves off the redhead baron's vicious assault. Suddenly peasants are swarming over his attacker. The baron is dragged off and trampled down.
ROBIN: Friends! We must raise the gate.
LITTLE JOHN: Come on, ya ckicken-'earted buggers. Ya milksops, ya bleedin' pansies. He can't shoot fast enough. As they descend on him, he leaps from the battlements onto a soldier's back. Grabs his sword.
LITTLE JOHN: Excuse me, m 'old cock. Ya mind if I borrow this? He's backed up against a battlement, outnumbered five to EXT. CASTLE GATE - DAY INT. CASTLE - MAIN CORRIDOR - DAY Seal the entrance. Guard it with your lives. . Bring the bishop to my chapel.
NOTTINGHAM: Seal the entrance. Guard it with your lives. . Bring the bishop to my chapel.
NOTTINGHAM: Come! It is time for the union. The guards roughly haul Marian to her feet. She is INT. CASTLE CHAPEL - DAY practice of black magic. The crucifix on the altar is upside down. Marian stands before it, between the Sheriff and Mortianna. The Bishop is dragged in. Frightened. The BATTLE SOUNDS ECHO.
BISHOP: They are rebelling. We must Marry us. When I am declared king, that rabble will not dare go against Is is madness to delay. Mortianna screams and slashes her talons across the Bishop's outstretched hands. Blood flows.
NOTTINGHAM: Marry us. When I am declared king, that rabble will not dare go against Is is madness to delay. Mortianna screams and slashes her talons across the Bishop's outstretched hands. Blood flows.
BISHOP: Is is madness to delay. Mortianna screams and slashes her talons across the Bishop's outstretched hands. Blood flows.
MORTIANNA: Face them, or face me.
ROBIN: Light all the barrels, Tuck.
ROBIN: Tuck jumps. Robin steers the wagon at the gate. At the last second, he slashes the reins and leaps onto the horse's back. The BARRELS EXPLODE! The portcullis is blown to kingdom come. Out of the smoke, Robin rides the old nag like a charger. Leads his cheering, ragged fighters through the open gate.
ASLAN: For Allah!. For Jehovah! For brotherhood!. For INT. CASTLE HALLWAYS - DAY three attackers. He swings a soldier around. Holds him as a shield, using the man's own sword against his companions. In seconds, all three are down and Robin is off and running. Down corridors, searching. Soldiers and armed servants converge to block his way. Robin strikes, vaults, flings statues. Up the stairs. topples a suit of armor down on his pursuers.
ROBIN: ( grabbing a servant ) Where is she? Where is Lady Ah! There is my answer.
ROBIN: Ah! There is my answer. He hurls the man aside. The armed guards charge him.
FRIAR: ( pious ) My son, there is a holy war being waged outside. Release all these wretches and God shall surely find you a place in heaven.
JAILER: I'd rather go to hell! WHAM! Tuck takes the lethal cudgel full in the chest. Flies back.
BISHOP: .your bodies to be bound in immortal wedlock. Do you, Marian Dubois, take. The chapel DOORS SHATTER inward. Robin backs in, bloodied, fencing with four remaining soldiers. He smashes one by swinging the heavy door into him, hurtles a pew at another. He springs off another pew, taking down a third.
ROBIN: Marian, run! It's me, Robin. Marian remains immobile. Mortianna moves to her side. Robin is struck in the thigh. Like a vulture, the Sheriff waits. Tiring, blood pouring from his leg, Robin prepares to fight him.
ROBIN: I warned you, I would find you no matter what.
NOTTINGHAM: No companions? No army? You rush to your death for the sake of a woman. Lust has turned you into a fool. Recognize this, Locksley? He raises his sword to reveal its handle. A crucifix sculpted into the hilt. Robin's father's sword.
NOTTINGHAM: Appropriate I should use it to kill you with, don't you think? He lunges. A savage, accomplished swordsman, with fire in his eyes. Exhausted, Robin is driven back, parrying INT. DUNGEONS - DAY The Lord helps those who help Grinning, he pulls open his robes, revealing chest armor . and a miniature powder keg. He holds it to his flaming torch and tosses it to the jailer. Stupified, the man catches the smoking bomb.
FRIAR: The Lord helps those who help Grinning, he pulls open his robes, revealing chest armor . and a miniature powder keg. He holds it to his flaming torch and tosses it to the jailer. Stupified, the man catches the smoking bomb.
FRIAR: Give my regards to the devil. The KEG ERUPTS, blowing the jailer through a wall.
LITTLE JOHN: Ya gutless bloody sissies. Someone attacks his assailants from the rear. The tide Wulf! I told ya to keep outa the Sorry, Father. Couldn't help Well, ya'll get a bloody good wallopin' if we get 'ome. For now, let's see how well I taught Wulf sends an attacker plummeting off the parapet.
LITTLE JOHN: Wulf! I told ya to keep outa the Sorry, Father. Couldn't help Well, ya'll get a bloody good wallopin' if we get 'ome. For now, let's see how well I taught Wulf sends an attacker plummeting off the parapet.
WULF: Sorry, Father. Couldn't help Well, ya'll get a bloody good wallopin' if we get 'ome. For now, let's see how well I taught Wulf sends an attacker plummeting off the parapet.
LITTLE JOHN: Well, ya'll get a bloody good wallopin' if we get 'ome. For now, let's see how well I taught Wulf sends an attacker plummeting off the parapet.
HAL: No! Fight on. Fight! He sees a familiar pair of holy sandals marching towards him. Tuck leading a barefoot army. Dozens of ragged prisoners, armed with chains and torture implements.
FRIAR: Sinners, beware! God's avengers are at hand. Dying, Hal manages a weak smile.
HAL: Go' bless ya, Tuck. Tuck flails a chain at a Celt.
FRIAR: Repent, heathen! The man spins to strike back. freezes. grinning. INT. CASTLE - KITCHENS - DAY Listen! Outside, your countrymen rise against the Sheriff.
FANNY: Listen! Outside, your countrymen rise against the Sheriff.
NOTTINGHAM: You should have stayed away, Locksley. Fools like you never A blow slices Robin's arm. His sword flies from his grasp. Nottingham gloats. Two of his men scramble back to their feet. Robin is beat. a war cry! Aslan, followed by Tuck.
ASLAN: Ali akbar!
FRIAR: ( seeing Aslan ) Agh. the painted one!
MORTIANNA: ( seeing Aslan ) Agh. the painted one!
FRIAR: So! You sold your soul to the No, I swear it, in God's name.
BISHOP: No, I swear it, in God's name.
FRIAR: Blasphemer! You accuse innocent men of Druid worship while you practice the black arts yourself. The Bishop surreptitiously draws a dagger from his robes. A taloned hand grips a spear. Mortianna creeps up on Watch out! Aslan spins. too late. Screeching, Mortianna drives the spear into Aslan's side. He cries out and slides to the floor. Nottingham uses Robin's distraction to regain his sword. Back on the defensive, Robin tries to evade the blows. Mortianna drags Marian out onto a balcony. Robin cannot pursue. In acute pain, Aslan struggles to his feet. Grasping the spear where it enters his side, he pulls with all his strength. The Bishop, concealed dagger in hand, approaches Tuck.
ROBIN: ( glimpsing her ) Watch out!
BISHOP: ( innocently ) I am sure you would not strike a man of the cloth.
FRIAR: Think again! Without an eyeblink's pause, Tuck punches the Bishop so hard, he flies back THROUGH a stained-glass WINDOW.
ASLAN: What you fear is not below.
NOTTINGHAM: What can your puny God do for you now?
ROBIN: This is for my father.
MARIAN: Let me go! Who are you?
ROBIN: ( restraining her ) I'm your sworn protector. Any way I see fit.
MARIAN: Robin? Oh God, is that you? She stumbles out of the fountain. and storms at him, pounding her fists on his chest.
MARIAN: How dare you?! Robin grins at the crowd.
ROBIN: I think she's feeling better. Marian looks about her. the chaotic aftermath of battle. Reality gradually sinks in. She folds against Robin's chest. Little John arrives, his huge arms enfolding Wulf and We done it, mate. We clobbered the buggers.
LITTLE JOHN: We done it, mate. We clobbered the buggers.
FANNY: Are you 'urt?
ROBIN: It will mend. He spots a group kneeling beside the fallen body of Aslan. His smile fades. He runs over. Cradles Aslan's Aslan, my friend.
ROBIN: Aslan, my friend.
ASLAN: I'm going home the easy way, You die on me, you son of satan, and I swear I'll bury you as a Christian in St. Catherine's Cathedral with a thousand monks chanting prayers for your miserable soul. You hear me?
FRIAR: ( shaking Aslan ) You die on me, you son of satan, and I swear I'll bury you as a Christian in St. Catherine's Cathedral with a thousand monks chanting prayers for your miserable soul. You hear me?
ASLAN: ( weakly ) I have no strength, Brother Tuck.
FRIAR: ( kicking him ) A fine friend you are! By the grace of Allah and Jehovah we have won the day, and you want to give up the ghost. I'll pickle your remains in mead, lay you in your grave with a pig for a companion, and mark it with a cross as big as this castle.
ASLAN: Please! It hurts when I laugh.
FRIAR: See. There's life in the heathen dog yet.
ROBIN: ( laughs ) Here, Tuck. Look after him. You deserve each other.
CROWD: Robin Hood! Robin Hood!
FRIAR: You may kiss the bride. The husband draws back the bride's veil. Robin and Marian. They kiss. long.
FRIAR: ( whispers ) Hurry. We waste good celebration
KING RICHARD: May I kiss the bride?
ROBIN: Who would dare refuse his king's You look radiant, cousin.
KING RICHARD: ( kissing Marian's You look radiant, cousin.
ROBIN: We are deeply honored by Your Majesty's presence.
KING RICHARD: It is I who am honored, Lord Locksley. Thanks to you I still have a throne. They continue down the aisle, past the smiling congre- gation. Waiting by the door is Aslan. He and Robin My friend, a word of advice. Ride her better than your horse. Robin laughs.
ASLAN: ( whispers ) My friend, a word of advice. Ride her better than your horse.
THE END: Writers : Pen Densham John Watson
