"ROCKY": Sylvester Stallone
BLACK FIGHTER: ( to cornerman ) . I'm gonna bust his head wide open! In Rocky's corner he is being assisted by a shriveled, balding CORNERMAN, who is an employee of the club. He works on Rocky without any enthusiasm.
CORNERMAN: ( lackluster ) . Ya waltzin' Give the suckers some action.
ROCKY: ( overriding ) Ya movin' like a bum Want some advice
CORNERMAN: ( overriding ) Ya movin' like a bum Want some advice
ROCKY: . Just gimme the water.
FAN: Should I bet the fight don't go the distance Ya feel . Ya want some good advice?
ROCKY: . Ya want some good advice?
CORNERMAN: . Ya want some good advice?
ROCKY: . I just want the mouthpiece. The BELL RINGS. Rocky makes the sign of the cross. The fighters engage in battle. The other fighter grabs Rocky in a clinch and purposely butts him. The butt opens a bleeding cut on the corner of Rocky's eye. Rocky becomes furious over the foul and drives a flurry into the man's body. Rocky slams the man on the jaw and the fighter is out for the night. The fans throw rubbish into the ring. Rocky ignores it. The fans loudly go about collecting bets. The referee does not bother to even count the fighter out and drags him under the ropes where he is placed on a stretcher. Two new fighters enter the ring. Rocky slips on a tattered robe. Embroidered clumsily on the back is, "The Italian Stallion."
ANNOUNCER: Winner, Rocky Balboa Next a six rounder between local Without pomp Rocky climbs out of the ring and bums a cigarette from a spectator. The fighter on the stretcher passes behind him. He watches for a moment and continues up the aisle. Before he even reaches the rear of the club the BELL RINGS and the next fight has already begun. Rocky fades into the darkness of the rear of the club.
FIGHTER #1: . Tomorrow me an' my woman are gonna tip on down to Atlantic City, man.
FIGHTER #2: . It's cold, Bro'.
FIGHTER #1: . That's right, I got the city to myself. Another paces nervously. Two other fighters shadowbox and spit nervously on the floor. A young pug combs his hair and listens to a portable RADIO that is BLASTING MUSIC. The fighter that Rocky has just defeated is drinking a beer and joking with three other fighters. Some of the fighters are smoking. The room is cloudy. A short man of fifty enters. He is dressed in a sweater buttoned over a t-shirt.
PROMOTER: Rocky raises his head. The promoter steps over.
PROMOTER: ( continuing ) . Twenty bucks for the locker an' cornerman Two bucks for the towel an' shower, seven for tax The house owes ya, sixty-one The man peels off the money and departs. Rocky closes his locker, nods to the defeated fighter, and leaves.
ROCKY: ( almost apologetic ) I'm a fighter.
WOMAN: ( tired ) . Yo' iz an accident.
ROCKY: .Look who's home. Rocky starts to boil a pan of water on his hot plate, then places an old 45 RPM record on a battered phonograph. The record is a tune, "ALL IN THE GAME." . As the CRACKLING MUSIC BEGINS, Rocky picks up his hairbrush. Using it like a microphone, he mimes to the record. He assumes the posture of a famous singer crooning to thousands of adoring fans. He then switches into a bullish fighting stance and throws several punches. The water boils. Rocky soaks his badly-swollen hands.
MAFIA #1: Yo, Rock How's your Boss?
ROCKY: Real good.
MAFIA #2: Fightin' again?
ROCKY: Yeah, here an' there.
MAFIA #1: Mebbe we make sum money togather soon. Give ya boss my best. Rocky shrugs and moves away. He nears a heavy man working the crane. The heavy man looks frightened. He stops the crane and hurries into the ship's hole. Rocky dashes up the INT. SHIP - DAY The man enters the ship's hole and runs past tons of stacked crates and coffee beans. Rocky sprints after him. He lunges and flings the man by the neck against the wall of stacked cargo.
FATS: ( terror-filled ) Don't hit the face! Not the Mr. Gazzo wants the two hundred now!
ROCKY: Mr. Gazzo wants the two hundred now!
FATS: Honest to God I'm broke Gimme a break.
ROCKY: Mr. Gazzo says I should get two hundred or break the thumb.
FATS: Please, I need my hands to work Christ, don't bust my At wits' end the man picks up a large metal hook used by stevedores. Rocky remains cool.
ROCKY: Goin' fishin'? The man drops the hook.
ROCKY: What's ya name again?
FATS: Look, Bob, if ya wanna dance, ya gotta pay the band If ya borrow, ya gotta pay the man. Me, I ain't emotionally Rocky's determined expression strikes home. The fat man quickly fumbles through his pockets and hands over a small wad of bills.
ROCKY: Look, Bob, if ya wanna dance, ya gotta pay the band If ya borrow, ya gotta pay the man. Me, I ain't emotionally Rocky's determined expression strikes home. The fat man quickly fumbles through his pockets and hands over a small wad of bills.
ROCKY: ( continuing; counting ) A hundred an' thirty.
FATS: That's it, I'm broke.
ROCKY: That's it? Completely?
FATS: That's it.
ROCKY: What about for food an' stuff?
FATS: You have my food in ya hand. Rocky looks almost sympathetically into the fat man's flushed expression.
ROCKY: . The juice is climbin' every week.
FATS: I know the juice is climbin' I been workin' six months just to pay the damn interest.
ROCKY: Ya still light seventy.
FATS: Waits! Be smart. Ya don't have to break nothin' Here, take my coat, it's worth fifty-sixty dollars. It's The man quickly removes his coat and extends it.
FATS: ( continuing ) See, ya a smart guy, Gazzo's don't have to know nuthin'. I'll go tape up the hand like ya broke my thumb. Gazzo won't be wise to nothin' Be a smart guy, keep the coat, we'll fake like ya broke the The man extends his coat again. Rocky suddenly grabs the man's thumb and bends him to his knees.
FATS: ( almost a whisper ) No - no - no - Please - Please - Please don't. Rocky releases the man who remains almost in shock. The thumb is fine.
ROCKY: .That's what coulda happened.
ADRIAN: . Could you take the puppy It can breathe.
CUSTOMER: It can breathe.
ADRIAN: Please -
CUSTOMER: Please, nothin' - I paid for this dog and can do whatever I want with it - I can throw it through the window if I want - Now give me my two dollars back before I do throw it through the window. Rocky walks over to her, stares hard in her face and snatches the bag out of her hand. He removes the puppy and hands it to Adrian.
CUSTOMER: Get away from me - Give me that! Rocky takes a couple dollars out of his pocket and hands it to the lady. She nervously exits.
ROCKY: . How's the turtle food this . Fine.
ADRIAN: . Fine.
ROCKY: Me, I'm kinda aggravated.
ADRIAN: . I'm sorry.
ROCKY: Ain't your fault - Here's the Adrian nods. Though charmed, she is slightly intimidated.
ROCKY: The last food I got here had more moths than flies An' the moths get caught in my turtle's throat That makes them cough The OWNER, a squat woman of forty, steps out of the back and waves at Rocky.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) Yo, Gloria I was talkin' about the turtle food Like I was sayin', the moths get caught in the turtle's throat an' makes 'em cough. ( coughs ) A little cough an' I gotta smack 'em on the shell An' whatta think they get? Adrian shrugs.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) I smack 'em hard on the shell an' they get. What?
ADRIAN: . I don't know.
ROCKY: Both the Owner and Adrian smile.
OWNER: Startin' with the bad jokes early today, huh.
ROCKY: Inventin' jokes ain't easy. Rocky steps over to a large cage at the rear of the shop. Inside is a huge dog.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) How's Butkus this mornin'?
OWNER: Ain't had time to check 'em. Rocky opens the cage and the large dog jumps out and looks very happy.
ROCKY: Yo, Butkus Dead. Play dead. The dog plays dead.
ROCKY: .What kinda dog is this again?
OWNER: The owner was suppose to pick him up three weeks ago.
ROCKY: The owner was suppose to pick him up three weeks ago.
OWNER: We're not responsible for animals left over thirty days - We board it ain't a animal shelter, Y'know. .Adrian, I want you to clean all those cat cages downstairs, they're a mess. Rocky waves goodbye to Adrian and exits the shop.
ROCKY: He only had a hundred an' thirty. I think he's good for the rest next week, Mr. Sure, Rocky, Bob's good for Gazzo hands Rocky a twenty.
GAZZO: ( patiently ) Sure, Rocky, Bob's good for Gazzo hands Rocky a twenty.
GAZZO: Tomorrow collect from Del Rio He's late three weeks. How'd you do last night?
ROCKY: . Fine. Gazzo's Bodyguard looks at Rocky's bruised face in the mirror and smiles.
BODYGUARD: Did ya get the license number?
ROCKY: Of wa?
BODYGUARD: . Of the truck that run over your face. Gazzo steps out of the car and beckons to Rocky.
GAZZO: Yo Rock. Did I give you a job this mornin? How come ya didn't break this guy's thumb like I asked ya? When ya don't do what ya are told, it makes me look bad, kid.
ROCKY: I figure if I break the thumb this guy gets thrown outta his job and can't pay nothin no It don't matter. It's my reputation. These guys think they can get off light. It's bad for my reputation It's bad for business. See ya Gazzo gets into his car.
GAZZO: It don't matter. It's my reputation. These guys think they can get off light. It's bad for my reputation It's bad for business. See ya Gazzo gets into his car.
GAZZO: ( to Bodyguard ) . The Rock's a good kid.
BODYGUARD: ( emotionless ) . A meatbag. They pull away.
RUDY: .See the fight last night?
RUDY: Nah, I was fightin' myself.
RUDY: Apollo Creed beat the bum to EXT./INT. GYM - DAY Mickey's Gym is surrounded by bars and a couple of greasy spoons. Out front a crowd of young Blacks talk and jive among themselves. Two winos lean against the entrance. Rocky enters the gym. The place is nearly full. The MEASURED BEAT of SKIP ROPES and THROBBING SPEED BAGS makes the room come alive, like it was a mindless piece of machinery. Over the loudspeaker MUSIC by the Isley Brothers BLARES out. The music adds a background to the CLANG of the AUTOMATIC TIMERS, SNORTING SPARRING PARTNERS and the THUDDING of HEAVY BAGS.
FIGHTER #1: Hey, hear ya knocked Spider Rice out in the sixth?
ROCKY: The third Shoulda seen it. Rocky passes another FIGHTER punching the heavy bag.
FIGHTER #2: ( removes glove ) Hey, Rock, touch my hand.
ROCKY: How come?
FIGHTER #2: C'mon, it's important. Rocky touches the Fighter's bare hand.
FIGHTER #2: ( continuing ) Can ya tell I just whacked-off? Rocky smiles and moves away.
ROCKY: ( mumbling ) . These ain't my clothes.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) . These ain't my pictures. A short powerful man of thirty-five enters. His hair looks like it has been shaped with hedge clippers. His name is
ROCKY: Yo, Mike What's happenin' It ain't your locker no more.
MIKE: It ain't your locker no more.
ROCKY: Whatta ya talkin' about it ain't my locker no more?
MIKE: Listen, I'm with you But ya gotta talk to Mickey I put ya stuff in the bag over there. Rocky looks at his belongings crammed in a wilted shopping bag and follows Mike across the room. Mike leans his head into the shower room. Two Latin fighters are lathering up.
FIGHTER: .Hey, Peanut, gimme some soap, Man.
MIKE: ( irate ) Hey, Nobody Yeah, you, Nobody You don't call me Peanut, gimme some soap. The fighters laugh. Inflamed, Mike removes a bar of soap from his pocket and hurls it at the insulting fighter. It hits just above the man's head. The fighters are shocked into silence. Mike turns and exits with Rocky. The fighters curse them loudly in Spanish.
FIGHTER: Peanut, gimme some soap. The fighters laugh. Inflamed, Mike removes a bar of soap from his pocket and hurls it at the insulting fighter. It hits just above the man's head. The fighters are shocked into silence. Mike turns and exits with Rocky. The fighters curse them loudly in Spanish.
ROCKY: You were ready to bite that guy's face.
MIKE: Yeah See the fight last night? Apollo Creed beat that English guy bad.
ROCKY: Creed's great. Mike fakes a friendly punch at Rocky and hurries off to another chore.
MICKEY: I don't care what nobody says, this bum Creed woulda never made it in the Thirties
ROCKY: Hey, how ya feelin', Mickey?
MICKEY: ( monotoned ) . What?
ROCKY: I said, how ya feelin'?
MICKEY: ( dryly ) Do you see me talkin'? Huh?
ROCKY: ( low ) ( spitting ) Then stand there an' wait till I'm done Creed's good, yeah, he's real fine but I gotta boy, y'know Big Dipper, who's got the stuff it takes to be a champ He's mean, quick, an' big What more d'ya need? Okay, go to work. ( to Rocky ) Hey Yeah Whatta ya want?
MICKEY: ( spitting ) Then stand there an' wait till I'm done Creed's good, yeah, he's real fine but I gotta boy, y'know Big Dipper, who's got the stuff it takes to be a champ He's mean, quick, an' big What more d'ya need? Okay, go to work. ( to Rocky ) Hey Yeah Whatta ya want?
ROCKY: I was talkin' with ya man, Mike. Hey, how come I been put outta my locker?
MICKEY: Dipper needed it. Rocky turns and looks at DIPPER sparring. Dipper is a young, muscular heavyweight with a mean expression.
MICKEY: ( continuing ) Dipper's a climber You're a . Tomato?
ROCKY: . Tomato?
MICKEY: Facts is facts. I run a business here I'm cleanin' Mickey pauses to watch a young middleweight time-skip as his trainer sings "FASCINATIN' RHYTHM."
MICKEY: ( continuing ) How old are ya?
ROCKY: How old?
MICKEY: How old?
ROCKY: Come July, twenty-five.
MICKEY: More like thirty.
ROCKY: Twenty-five, thirty What's the difference? It took me two months to learn the combination of that locker.
MICKEY: The legs must be goin'.
ROCKY: Yeah, they're goin', that's nature. That was my locker for six years.
MICKEY: . Did ya fight last night?
ROCKY: Did ya win?
MICKEY: Did ya win?
ROCKY: Yeah, Kayo.
MICKEY: . Who'd ya fight?
ROCKY: Spider Rice.
MICKEY: Rice is a bum.
ROCKY: You think everybody I fight is a bum.
MICKEY: Ain't they? Mickey shoots Rocky a quick, indifferent look and removes a rosary from his pocket and idly rolls it around his fingers.
MICKEY: ( continuing ) Ya want the truth Ya got heart, but ya fight like an ape The only thing special about you is ya never got ya nose broke keep ya nose pretty what's left of ya brain an' retire.
ROCKY: Listen, I'm gonna take a steam Did good last night Shoulda seen it.
MICKEY: Hey, ever think about retirin'?
ROCKY: Think about it.
MICKEY: Think about it.
ROCKY: Yeah, sure. Shrugging, Rocky moves away.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) .I think I'm gonna take a steam Shoulda seen me fight Did good, y'know. Mickey leans over to Mike who approaches with a mop and pail.
MICKEY: ( gesturing towards Rocky ) Known him since he was fifteen A waste of life. Dejected, Rocky travels to the locker room. He passes Big Dipper sparring in a ring. Dipper spits a mouthful of water in a bucket and looks smugly at Rocky.
DIPPER: ( to Rocky ) . I dig yo' locker, Man.
TRAINER: Time, Dipper.
ROCKY: . Wow cold! Good night to catch pneumonia. Adrian smiles slightly and moves behind the counter. Rocky fumbles idly among the pet toys.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) Ah I came in here for somethin'. Oh, yeah, would ya like somebody to walk ya The girl wants to say yes but a tremendous inferiority complex will not permit it. Rocky understands.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) Hey, how's my buddy doin'? ( looks into Butkus' cage ) Nice dog Well, I'll see ya later.
ADRIAN: . Goodnight, Rocky. Rocky exits. Adrian watches his departure with mixed EXT. ANDY'S BAR - NIGHT A short while later Rocky arrives at Andy's Bar. He throws the Colonel Sanders bag and bones in a large public litter can. The trash can has a bicentennial picture of George Washington pointing at a pile of garbage. The caption reads, "There was no litter at Valley Forge!"
ROCKY: Catch pneumonia out there Seen Paulie? Andy casually nods towards the men's room. Rocky traverses the room and passes TWO DRUNKS leaning on the bar.
ROCKY: Yo, Paulie.
PAULIE: ( very drunk ) Yo, Rocky Look at this mirror. I'd like to kill the friggin' moron who broke this Yo, Paulie.
ROCKY: Yo, Paulie.
PAULIE: Your sister's givin' me the Forget her. You could do better than my sister.
ROCKY: Your sister's givin' me the Forget her. You could do better than my sister.
PAULIE: Forget her. You could do better than my sister.
ROCKY: Every mornin', every night I pass by I smile.
PAULIE: ( annoyed ) Looks, huh?
ROCKY: Yeah, like I was a plate of leftovers Somethin' wrong with my face Whatta I need, a Caddy to connect with ya My sister's a friggin' loser.
PAULIE: My sister's a friggin' loser.
ROCKY: Sometimes she gets me so crazy, I'd like to split her head with a razor.
PAULIE: Sometimes she gets me so crazy, I'd like to split her head with a razor.
ROCKY: Don't get mental, man.
PAULIE: Ya caught me in a bad mood.
ROCKY: Ya always in a bad mood
PAULIE: . Adrian ain't sharp. The restroom stench is overwhelming. Rocky covers his nose with the neckline of his t-shirt.
PAULIE: ( continuing ) She's a loser She don't enjoy life She reads Brainy Pushin' thirty friggin' years old! She's gonna die alone if she don't wise up.
ROCKY: I'm thirty myself.
PAULIE: An' you're dyin' alone, too.
ROCKY: I don't see no crowd around you, neither.
PAULIE: ( pointing at the wall ) I wanna kill the friggin' moron who broke the mirror.
ROCKY: Let's get outta this stink.
PAULIE: The girl's dryin' up! She's gotta live a little before her body dries up!! You're a pal, Rock How 'bout yo' talk to her? Y'know, it's Thanksgivin' . Sure.
ROCKY: . Sure.
PAULIE: Tomorrow you come for some bird, right?
ROCKY: Paulie smiles and Rocky guides him to a booth. Rocky steps to the bar. Andy leans over to him.
ANDY: That was alotta crap to go through for a dinner invite. Rocky shakes his head no and raises his eyes towards a suspended television. the nightly sports broadcast is on. The SPORTS COMMENTATOR is at the airport and about to interview the heavyweight champion of the world, APOLLO CREED. Creed is twenty-eight years old. He is a tall, smooth-muscled Black with barely a scar on his light coffee- colored face.
COMMENTATOR: How was the flight, Champ?
APOLLO: Very high an' very fast. Apollo's crowd smiles almost automatically at everything he Apollo, how would you rate this last British challenger, Henry Wilcoxson?
COMMENTATOR: Apollo, how would you rate this last British challenger, Henry Wilcoxson?
APOLLO: He was big, an' very nasty so I destroyed him in a hurry Now I'm gettin' ready for Mac Lee Green next month.
COMMENTATOR: You're referring to the much publicized bicentennial fight?
APOLLO: That's right It's gonna be the greatest sportin' event in this country's history A gala occurrence!
COMMENTATOR: Still to be held in The Bicentennial Heavyweight Championship of the World is gonna be held in the only place it can be held Philadelphia! the nation's cradle January First the first major event of our two hundredth year.
APOLLO: The Bicentennial Heavyweight Championship of the World is gonna be held in the only place it can be held Philadelphia! the nation's cradle January First the first major event of our two hundredth year.
COMMENTATOR: Where're you off to now? Apollo draws his wife close.
APOLLO: Me an' my wife are goin' home 'cause we miss our children an' can't go no more time without seein' them.
COMMENTATOR: Any quick advice for young boxing hopefuls?
APOLLO: ( looks straight into the camera ) . Stay in school an' use your brains, dig Be a lawyer, be a doctor, carry a leather briefcase an' forget about sports!! Sports can only make ya grunt an' smell Be a thinker not a stinker!! Apollo's entourage laughs and they move on. The Commentator faces the camera.
COMMENTATOR: Jerry Simpson at Kennedy Airport with the Champion, Apollo Creed. The sports show cuts away, but Rocky continues to look at the television with a pensive stare. Andy has been speaking the following dialogue over Apollo's broadcast.
ANDY: Nobody cares what's happenin' in the world of sports nomore Downhill. Baseball, downhill Basketball, downhill. Football's goin', too. Bank on it. Baseball use to be America's best sport. Sure Nuttin' like squattin' through a great double header, but now baseball's all business. The news report with Apollo ends. Andy drinks.
ANDY: ( continuing ) Where are the real fighters? The pros. Today we jig clowns.
ROCKY: He took his best shot an' became champ What shot did you ever take?
ANDY: He took his best shot an' became champ What shot did you ever take?
ROCKY: He took his best shot an' became champ What shot did you ever take?
ANDY: Yo, Rock, you ain't happy with yourself? Fine. But me, I gotta business here I don't need to take no shot. Becoming despondent, Rocky rises and crosses to Paulie slumped unconscious in the booth. Rocky exits the bar. Andy turns to his customers.
ANDY: ( continuing; boldly ) Take a shot, he says! Sure, I'll take a shot! Laughing, Andy pours himself a shot.
CHIPPED TOOTH: ( aggressively ) Yo, Rocks, buy us sum wine, man.
ROCKY: . No wine Bad for ya' C'mon, man, it's cold, man.
CHIPPED TOOTH: C'mon, man, it's cold, man.
ROCKY: No wine.
CHIPPED TOOTH: Yo, Rock, gimme a dollar.
ROCKY: CHIPPED TOOTH ( sarcastically ) 'Cause we dig ya, man Gimme a dollar.
CHIPPED TOOTH: ( sarcastically ) 'Cause we dig ya, man Gimme a dollar.
ROCKY: No dollar.
CHIPPED TOOTH: Hey, give Rocky a dime.
CHIPPED TOOTH: So he can call all his friends.
ROCKY: ( mildly embarrassed ) . That's an old one.
CHIPPED TOOTH: Buy us some Thunderbird, man. Rocky ignores the statement and faces a very young girl who is smoking and leaning whore-like against the wall.
ROCKY: Is that Marie? Marie, ya brother know you're hangin' out so late? The girl, MARIE, assumes an indifferent attitude, attempting to impress her friends.
MARIE: . Screw you.
ROCKY: ( awed ) What'd you say?
MARIE: . Screw you, yoyo. The gang laughs. Angered and shocked, Rocky grabs her arm.
ROCKY: Did these guys teach you to talk dirty? Huh?
MARIE: Stuff it, man!
ROCKY: Stuff it, man!
MARIE: Stuff it, man!
ROCKY: ( shakes her ) Don't you never say that ( to the gang ) You guys talk like that in front of a little girl You guys are scum.
CHIPPED TOOTH: This is our place, dig! The gang reluctantly backs up a step.
ROCKY: Don't ya never come round this girl Go home.
CHIPPED TOOTH: ( backpedaling ) We'll kill you, man We gotta gun.
ROCKY: Pull heat on me? I'll dent ya face! Rocky leads the girl away.
ROCKY: How come ya wanna hang out with those guys? They teach ya bad things.
MARIE: I like 'em. If you don't you can f
ROCKY: Hey! When I was your age, there was only one girl who talked like that in the whole . Yeah. She attempts to light a cigarette. Rocky nonchalantly tosses it to the ground.
MARIE: ( bored ) . Yeah. She attempts to light a cigarette. Rocky nonchalantly tosses it to the ground.
ROCKY: Make your teeth yella
MARIE: I like yella teeth.
ROCKY: Makes your breath like garbage.
MARIE: Maybe I like garbage. Rocky and Marie take a shortcut through a dark school yard.
ROCKY: Nobody likes garbage Anyway, this girl with the dirty mouth wasn't bad lookin', but the guys wouldn't take her out for any serious datin'.
MARIE: 'Cause that's the way guys are They laugh when ya talk dirty. They think ya cute for a while, but then ya getta reputation an' watch out.
ROCKY: 'Cause that's the way guys are They laugh when ya talk dirty. They think ya cute for a while, but then ya getta reputation an' watch out.
MARIE: C'mon, Rocky. I'm twelve.
ROCKY: That doesn't matter You don't really have to be a whore, just act like one an' that's it.
MARIE: Yo, a bad reputation Twenty years from now people will say 'D'you remember Marie?' 'No, who was she?' 'She was that little whore who hung out at the Atomic Hoagie Shop.' 'Oh, now I remember!'. See, they don't remember you, they remember the rep. Rocky and Marie exit the dark school yard. Standing in the shadows of the building are three young muggers. The light from their cigarettes flares red in their faces. The muggers pace Rocky across the street and follow them down the block. Rocky sees them and stops and faces the three. The muggers pause and study Rocky from a distance of twenty yards. Rocky gives a loud boxer's snort, wipes his nose with the side of his thumb and rolls his shoulders. The muggers are intimidated and slowly peel off the meander Rocky turns to Marie who has been standing behind him.
ROCKY: Yo, a bad reputation Twenty years from now people will say 'D'you remember Marie?' 'No, who was she?' 'She was that little whore who hung out at the Atomic Hoagie Shop.' 'Oh, now I remember!'. See, they don't remember you, they remember the rep. Rocky and Marie exit the dark school yard. Standing in the shadows of the building are three young muggers. The light from their cigarettes flares red in their faces. The muggers pace Rocky across the street and follow them down the block. Rocky sees them and stops and faces the three. The muggers pause and study Rocky from a distance of twenty yards. Rocky gives a loud boxer's snort, wipes his nose with the side of his thumb and rolls his shoulders. The muggers are intimidated and slowly peel off the meander Rocky turns to Marie who has been standing behind him.
ROCKY: ( points down the block ) . That's your house, ain't it? Marie nods.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) Listen, I hope ya don't
MARIE: I won't.
ROCKY: What was I gonna say?
MARIE: Ya hope I don't keep acting like a whore or I'll turn into one, right?
ROCKY: Ya, somethin' like that. They exchange smiles and Marie moves away. Rocky has made an impact on her life.
MARIE: Goodnight, Rocky.
ROCKY: 'Night, Marie. She takes a few more steps and pauses again.
MARIE: . Fuck you, Creepo!!! The girl runs to her house as Rocky looks on in dismay.
ROCKY: ( walks off ) . Yeah, who're you to give advice, Creepo.
LAWYER: Are the doctor's reports It says here, Mac Lee Green has suffered a seriously cracked third metacarpal in his left hand.
JERGENS: ( reading ) It says here, Mac Lee Green has suffered a seriously cracked third metacarpal in his left hand.
APOLLO: I suppose we could cancel the fight indefinitely if you are set on fighting Green.
JERGENS: I suppose we could cancel the fight indefinitely if you are set on fighting Green.
TRAINER: It ain't just Green, what about the time Apollo's I believe we can find a Solution, nothin' What about the Bicentennial fight.
JERGENS: I believe we can find a Solution, nothin' What about the Bicentennial fight.
APOLLO: Solution, nothin' What about the Bicentennial fight.
LAWYER: Jergens, don't play games with my client! Apollo has already done nearly a million dollars worth of publicity
TRAINER: Ten million's worth!
LAWYER: And has made contractual obligations with over twenty different organizations He doesn't want to be embarrassed.
APOLLO: You best find me another ranked contender an' I mean in a flash, man!
JERGENS: ( holding up some notes ) I contacted Ernie Roman's manager, he's fighting in France the same week.
APOLLO: Then gimme Buddy Shaw He's ranked fifth.
JERGENS: Shaw's fighting in South America Why not postpone the bout until July Fourth?
LAWYER: Hell with Fourth of July, man! Ten thousand things'll be goin' down on the Fourth of July! Apollo wants to be That may not be possible, Jimmy.
JERGENS: That may not be possible, Jimmy.
TRAINER: This man here is the Star, dig Don't cause him to breathe heavy Now what 'bout that sucker, Billy Dukes?
JERGENS: Went to California and gained fifty pounds and I called every worthwhile contender, but they say five weeks isn't enough time to get in shape. Apollo stands beneath a new fight poster and points to it.
APOLLO: Shape, nothin' They're afraid. They know everybody in the world's gonna see this fight an' none of them gotta prayer of beating me so they're makin' excuses so they don't have to be the chump that's gonna be whipped in front of the whole civilized Apollo, I'm sure there's a way to salvage this.
JERGENS: Apollo, I'm sure there's a way to salvage this.
TRAINER: Nobody wants to be dissected on the country's birthday.
JERGENS: All I can counter with is that I'm a goddamn good promoter I've promoted in every country in the world and I've tried to the best of my abilities. Perhaps you're right, and no one wants to be beat on the country's birthday. I don't know what else to say
APOLLO: I do Maybe what this fight needs is something new a You's the novelty, Champ!
TRAINER: You's the novelty, Champ!
APOLLO: Give my main man a raise!! Everyone laughs.
APOLLO: ( continuing ) Now here's what's goin' down. Listen, 'cause I'm gonna say this but one time. On January first, the first day of the Bicentennial I'm gonna fight me a local poor underdog, dig? A snow-white underdog. An' I'm gonna put his face on this poster with me, hear? An' I'll tell you why, 'cause I'm sentimental An' all the people in the country all sentimental, man, an' they'd like nothin' better than me, Apollo Creed, to let some unknown get a shot at the greatest title in the world on this country's biggest birthday. Now that's the way I see it an' that's the way I want it!!
JERGENS: . It's very American.
APOLLO: No, man, it's very smart.
ROCKY: Next Wednesday I grab a grand from Snyder. An' Thursday two yards from Cappoli, okay?
GAZZO: No, two yards from Snyder, an' a grand from Cappoli.
ROCKY: Ya sure?
GAZZO: Hey, screw ya brain on right. Now, who's this girl you're going out with tonight?
ROCKY: How'd you know?
GAZZO: ( smiles ) You think I don't hear things?
ROCKY: Paulie's sister.
BODYGUARD: ( abrasively ) Hear she's retarded.
ROCKY: ( dryly ) She ain't retarded, she's shy.
BODYGUARD: Take 'er to the zoo Retards like the zoo.
ROCKY: Does that bum have to say that? The Bodyguard reddens. Gazzo motions to his Bodyguard to Buddy's in a bad mood prostate problems.
GAZZO: Buddy's in a bad mood prostate problems.
ROCKY: He's always in a bad mood. Count ya blessin's. Ya a healthy person ya legs work ya hands work The Bodyguard has been looking at Rocky with murderous eyes.
BODYGUARD: I don't like ya face.
ROCKY: Don't like yours neither.
BODYGUARD: Kiss my ass.
ROCKY: Move your shoulders down. Mr. Gazzo is amused. He steps out of the car, followed by Buddy's got a thing against ya, Rock. Some people just hate for no reason, y'know.
GAZZO: ( smiles ) Buddy's got a thing against ya, Rock. Some people just hate for no reason, y'know.
ROCKY: Here's fifty bucks You an' the girl have a nice time.
GAZZO: Here's fifty bucks You an' the girl have a nice time.
ROCKY: Thanks, Mr. Gazzo. Rocky enters his apartment and Gazzo drives off.
APOLLO: How 'bout this Billy Snow?
JERGENS: How 'bout this Big Chuck Smith?
APOLLO: How 'bout this Big Chuck Smith?
TRAINER: Too old, dull fighter. Bobby Judge is a good boy.
APOLLO: . I don't feel heat from the Joe Zack is a good prospect Exciting boy.
JERGENS: Joe Zack is a good prospect Exciting boy.
APOLLO: . Still don't feel no heat.
JERGENS: ( sighs ) Exactly what are you looking for, Apollo?
APOLLO: . This man. Everybody leans forward.
APOLLO: ( continuing; much amused ) 'The Italian Stallion' He's my man.
JERGENS: Rocky Balboa His record's Don't matter That name. 'The Italian Stallion,' it's right on. Who discovered America? An Italian, right? So, man, what could be better than to get it on with one of his ancestors
APOLLO: Don't matter That name. 'The Italian Stallion,' it's right on. Who discovered America? An Italian, right? So, man, what could be better than to get it on with one of his ancestors
TRAINER: He won't last one round.
APOLLO: Listen, I gonna carry this boy three rounds, then drop 'im like a bad habit.
TRAINER: I don't like you messin' with southpaws They do everything Southpaw, nuthin' I'll drop 'im in three 'Apollo Creed meets the Italian Stallion.' Shhiii Sounds like a damn monster movie!! Everyone laughs.
APOLLO: Southpaw, nuthin' I'll drop 'im in three 'Apollo Creed meets the Italian Stallion.' Shhiii Sounds like a damn monster movie!! Everyone laughs.
ROCKY: ( mimes throwing ) I usta be deadly at half-ball.
PAULIE: I hate the friggin' game. I'd like to talk some business.
ROCKY: What kinda business?
PAULIE: Look at my hands See how the joints are swollen. Paulie extends his thick hands and tries to make a fist.
PAULIE: ( continuing ) Inflamed joints Walkin' in an' out of a freezer carryin' meat plays hell on the joints.
ROCKY: Maybe ya should see a doctor.
PAULIE: I don't need a doctor, I need a different job.
ROCKY: Maybe another job is the best Do me a favor Talk to Gazzo. Tell him I'm a friend an' would do a good job. Tell him I ain't bothered by nothin' an' would be a great collector. Bustin' bones don't bother me Tell him I'm a good worker.
PAULIE: Do me a favor Talk to Gazzo. Tell him I'm a friend an' would do a good job. Tell him I ain't bothered by nothin' an' would be a great collector. Bustin' bones don't bother me Tell him I'm a good worker.
ROCKY: Gazzo's gotta come to you.
PAULIE: I'm askin' ya to go to him As a favor.
ROCKY: Gazzo's gotta come to you Hey, Paulie, it's a bad job Do what you do now.
PAULIE: You know her? Rocky shrugs and the two men move off. Filling the night air is the METALLIC SOUND of pitching QUARTERS.
ROCKY: Ya sister knows I'm comin'?
PAULIE: Yeah, sure She's very INT. PAULIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT Paulie unlocks the apartment door and enters. Rocky stiffly follows. Paulie's sister steps out of the kitchen. A large serving spoon is in her hand. The TV is on. She stops short and eyes Rocky. She is visibly unsettled by Rocky's unexpected presence.
ADRIAN: ( weakly ) Paulie, you're late. She looks at Rocky again.
PAULIE: Did you call the hospital? If I'm ten minutes late, she calls the hospital. Adrian enters the bedroom and slams the door. Paulie follows. An argument ensues and Rocky overhears. OVER the argument is HEARD a SPORTS BROADCAST rising from the TELEVISION.
ADRIAN: . Paulie, why didn't you tell me you were bringing him home?! Look at me, I'm not ready for this.
PAULIE: Like it would make a difference if you were, right? This guy's a friend and now he's takin' ya out.
ADRIAN: No. I can't!
PAULIE: Ya, ya goin' outta the bedroom an' I don't wanna know from Paulie, please
ADRIAN: Paulie, please
PAULIE: Hey, I want ya out instamaticly. I'm sicka lookin' at ya hangin' around like a friggin' spider Go out Live! Do, enjoy life.
ADRIAN: . Like you?
PAULIE: Don't get wise with me. I want ya to stop bein' a loser.
ADRIAN: I can't go out.
PAULIE: Paulie, it's Thanksgiving. I've gotta turkey in the oven. Paulie turns and leaves the bedroom. He enters the kitchen. Grabbing a large fork, he opens the oven and spears the turkey. With the turkey suspended on the end of the fork, Paulie heaves the dripping bird out the window.
ADRIAN: Paulie, it's Thanksgiving. I've gotta turkey in the oven. Paulie turns and leaves the bedroom. He enters the kitchen. Grabbing a large fork, he opens the oven and spears the turkey. With the turkey suspended on the end of the fork, Paulie heaves the dripping bird out the window.
PAULIE: !! Ya want the bird, go out in the alley an' eat the bird I want ya outta the house Enjoy ya friggin' life. Ya hungry, Rock?
ROCKY: Maybe ya better forget it.
PAULIE: Forget nothin' Here, talk to my sister, tell 'er somethin' nice. Rocky walks over to Adrian's bedroom door and begins speaking to the enclosed girl.
ROCKY: . Yo, Adrian, it's me, Rocky. Ah, ah Ah, it's kinda hard for me to think of somethin' to say, y'know 'Cause I never talked to a door before, I mean whatta ya say to a door. Rocky turns away and begins to walk off.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) . Maybe I better forget it.
PAULIE: Try again, c'mon, try again. Rocky goes over to the door and begins speaking again.
ROCKY: Ah, Adrian, I know ya ain't too happy at this moment, but would ya do me a favor I ain't got nobody to spend Thanksgivin' with How 'bout you an' me goin' out Get somethin' to eat, maybe laugh a little, who knows. Would ya like, I dunno, go out Adrian opens the door. She already has her winter coat on.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) We'll have a good time. Paulie opens the front door and gives Rocky an encouraging ( continuing ) What's ya sister like to do?
ROCKY: ( continuing ) What's ya sister like to do?
PAULIE: Ice skate.
ROCKY: I didn't want no turkey anyway.
ADRIAN: It's Thanksgiving.
ROCKY: To you, to me it's Thursday.
ROCKY: Looks quiet, y'know.
ADRIAN: I think it's closed.
ROCKY: I think mebbe we're early or From across the rink a CLEANING MAN yells at them.
CLEANER: Hey, whatta ya doin' here we're closed. Yo, we're Are ya closed to the General Public or to just everybody.
ROCKY: ( yells back ) Are ya closed to the General Public or to just everybody.
CLEANER: ( starts to walk over ) Hey, the rink is empty 'cause we're closed ya ain't allowed in here so do me a favor an' not stay here.
ROCKY: Wait here, gotta smooth this guy out.
ADRIAN: ( softly ) We could go somewhere else Rocky approaches the Cleaner.
CLEANER: Yo, pal, what's with you The place ain't operatin'.
ROCKY: Listen, I gotta problem. This girl ain't feelin' well, y'know The doctor says she should exercise, y'know once in awhile an' ice skatin' is the best thing
CLEANER: This a con?
ROCKY: Look at her, ya can see she ain't feelin' good needs a few minutes exercise
CLEANER: Few minutes?
ROCKY: . Ten minutes.
CLEANER: Ten minutes for ten dollars.
ROCKY: . Yeah, give 'er the Blades.
ADRIAN: . Aren't you skating?
ROCKY: Ain't skated since I was fifteen That's when I started fightin' gotta watch the ankles. Yeah, fightin' use to be tops with me, but no more. All I wanted to prove was I weren't no bum That I had the stuff to make a good pro.
ADRIAN: And you never got the chance? The Cleaner yells from the sideline.
CLEANER: Nine minutes!
ROCKY: Hey, I ain't cryin'. I still fight. Kinda do it like a hobby. See I'm a natural southpaw an' most pugs won't fight a southpaw 'cause we mess up their timin' an' look awkward Southpaw means lefthanded. But I guess in the long run things probably worked out for the best, right?
ADRIAN: But you never had a chance to prove yourself.
ROCKY: Eight minutes! Adrian slips and Rocky breaks her fall.
CLEANER: Eight minutes! Adrian slips and Rocky breaks her fall.
ROCKY: I just dislocated my finger.
ADRIAN: Seven minutes!
CLEANER: Seven minutes!
ROCKY: It ain't your fault I originally done it in the Baby Crenshaw fight. That's me fightin' Big Baby Crenshaw Big Baby was the size of an airplane an' I broke my hands on his head I lost, but it's a nice picture, don't ya think?
CLEANER: How 'bout some Cokes?
ROCKY: How 'bout some Cokes?
CLEANER: Cost ya a buck.
ROCKY: This guy is beautiful get the Cokes. Adrian does a slight turn and Rocky has to speed up and nearly falls.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) See, I ain't graceful, y'know I don't move good Stink as a dancer too But I can really swat, I hit hard, real hard, but I'm a southpaw an' nobody wants to fight a southpaw! Havin' a good time? Adrian nods and is very nervous. The Cleaner moves carefully across the ice.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) Y'know how I got started in the fight racket?
ADRIAN: By accident?
CLEANER: Here Three minutes.
ROCKY: Yeah My ol' man who was never the sharpest told me I weren't born with much brain so I better use my body. For the first time, Adrian laughs.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) What's funny?
ADRIAN: My mother told me just the opposite. She said, 'You weren't born with much of a body so you'd better develop your brain.'
CLEANER: The Cleaner walks over as Rocky and Adrian get off the ice.
CLEANER: ( continuing ) That's ten bucks.
ROCKY: I must be goin' deaf 'cause I thought ya said, 'ten cents.' Rocky hands him a dime.
CLEANER: ( weakly ) . How 'bout for the Cokes?
ROCKY: Charge it. Rocky and Adrian start to leave. Rocky pauses at the door and fishes into his pocket and hands over eleven dollars.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) Had ya goin', didn't I, huh? He grins and leaves.
ROCKY: Some people are very shy by . I suppose.
ADRIAN: . I suppose.
ROCKY: I would say you're very shy bu . I suppose.
ADRIAN: . I suppose.
ROCKY: Some people think bein' shy is a disease, but it don't bother It doesn't bother me either.
ADRIAN: It doesn't bother me either.
ROCKY: Then why did I bother bringin' it up? 'Cause I'm dumb, that's why. Y'know, I think we make a real sharp coupla coconuts I'm dumb an' you're shy.
ADRIAN: . It is just hard for me to understand why anybody wants to be a fighter.
ROCKY: Ya gotta be a little soft to wanna be a pug. It's a racket where ya' almost guaranteed to end up a bum.
ADRIAN: I don't think you're a bum.
ROCKY: . I'm at least half a bum. Yeah, fightin' is a crazy racket. The roughest part is the mornin' after.
ADRIAN: Morning after?
ROCKY: After a rough fight, ya' nothin' but a large wound. Sometimes I feel like callin' a taxi to drive me from my bed to the bathroom. Ya' eyes hurt, ya' ears hurt, ya' hair even hurts. But the thing I'm proud of is I been in over sixty fights an' never had a busted nose Bent an' twisted an' bitten but never broke. That's rare.
ADRIAN: Why do you do it if it hurts so bad?
ROCKY: . Guess.
ADRIAN: ( pause ) 'Cause you can't sing or dance? Rocky smiles.
ROCKY: Would ya like a glass of water?
ADRIAN: . No thanks. Adrian looks at the mirror above Rocky's dresser. She sees a high school photo of Rocky. He once was handsome and smooth-faced. Rocky steps up behind her and his face is reflected in the mirror. He turns on his cheap RECORD PLAYER. He reaches into the turtle bowl.
ROCKY: Here's the guys I was tellin' ya about This is Cuff an' I sold them to you.
ADRIAN: I sold them to you.
ROCKY: ( very embarrassed ) . Oh, yeah, I bought the whole kit Yeah, ya sold me the turtles, the bowl, an' the mountain I had to get rid of the mountain 'cause they kept fallin' off.
ADRIAN: Do you have a phone?
ROCKY: I had it pulled. People callin' all the time. Who needs it Who'd you wanna I wanna let my brother know where I am.
ADRIAN: I wanna let my brother know where I am.
ROCKY: D'you really wanna call?
ADRIAN: Yes, I do.
ROCKY: You sure?
ADRIAN: I think he might be worried.
ROCKY: I think he might be worried.
ADRIAN: I think he might be worried.
ROCKY: I'll call your brother. Rocky flings open the window and bellows like a foghorn.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) !!Yo, Paulie Ya sister's with me! I'll call ya later. Rocky closes the window and faces the woman. She is not smiling. She looks frightened.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) What's the matter? Ya don't like the room?
ADRIAN: It's fine.
ROCKY: It's only temporary.
ADRIAN: It's not that
ROCKY: What's the problem? You don't like me Don't like the turtles What is it?
ADRIAN: I don't think I belong here.
ROCKY: It's okay.
ADRIAN: No, I don't belong here.
ROCKY: It's all right You're my . I've never been in a man's apartment before.
ADRIAN: . I've never been in a man's apartment before.
ROCKY: ( gesturing ) They're all the same.
ADRIAN: I'm not sure I know you well enough I don't think I'm Yo, I'm not comfortable either.
ROCKY: Yo, I'm not comfortable either.
ADRIAN: ( standing ) I should leave.
ROCKY: But I'm willin' to make the best of this uncomfortable Adrian moves to the door. Rocky intercepts her.
ROCKY: ( continuing; softly ) Would ya take off your glasses?
ADRIAN: ( dumbstruck ) The glasses. Please. Rocky removes her glasses and looks deeply into her eyes.
ROCKY: The glasses. Please. Rocky removes her glasses and looks deeply into her eyes.
ADRIAN: ( timidly ) . T-thank you.
ROCKY: Do me another favor?
ADRIAN: . What?
ROCKY: Could ya take off that hat. After a moment, Adrian removes the hat. She is becoming rather pretty.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) I always knew you was pretty.
ADRIAN: Don't tease me. The woman melts into the corner and begins lightly sobbing. Rocky steps forward and fences her with his arms and body.
ROCKY: I wanna kiss ya Ya don't have to kiss me back if ya don't feel like it. Rocky softly kisses the woman. Her arms hang limp. He puts more passion into the kiss and she starts to respond. Her hand glides like smoke up his back.
MIKE: Hey, Rock What happened?
ROCKY: 'Bout what? Mickey Goldmill steps out of his office.
MICKEY: Did ya get the message, kid?
ROCKY: Message What message? Mickey pulls out a card from his breast pocket. He hands it to Rocky.
MICKEY: A Rep from Miles Jergens' Promotions was lookin' for ya They need sparrin' partners for Creed.
ROCKY: Ya puttin' me on?
MICKEY: Here's the card?
ROCKY: When was they here?
MICKEY: 'Bout an hour ago.
ROCKY: Probably lookin' for sparrin' . I said that before. Rocky turns from Mickey and jogs out of the gym. Mickey fumbles with his rosary beads.
MICKEY: . I said that before. Rocky turns from Mickey and jogs out of the gym. Mickey fumbles with his rosary beads.
MICKEY: ( continuing ) . Waste of life.
SECRETARY: May I help you? Rocky hands her the business card.
SECRETARY: ( continuing ) Your name, please?
ROCKY: Balboa, Rocky Balboa. The Secretary rises and enters Jergens' office. Rocky eyes the multitude of sporting pictures hanging on all four walls. The Secretary returns.
SECRETARY: You may go in. Rocky collects himself and enters.
JERGENS: Hello, Mr. Balboa I'm Miles Jergens Please, have a seat.
ROCKY: . Thanks.
JERGENS: Mr. Balboa
ROCKY: ( overriding ) Rocky, do you have any representation? A manager?
JERGENS: Rocky, do you have any representation? A manager?
ROCKY: No Just me.
JERGENS: Rocky, would you be interested Excuse me.
ROCKY: Excuse me.
JERGENS: Excuse me.
ROCKY: I know ya need sparrin' partners I'm very available.
JERGENS: I'm sure you are.
ROCKY: Absolutely Sparrin' with the Champ would be an honor y'know what?
JERGENS: I wouldn't take no cheap shots. I'd be a good sparrin' partner.
ROCKY: I wouldn't take no cheap shots. I'd be a good sparrin' partner.
JERGENS: Rocky, would you be interested in fighting Apollo Creed for the Championship?
ROCKY: . Like I said, I'd make a boss sparrin' mate.
JERGENS: Did you hear what I said?
ROCKY: Sure, an' I'm smart enough to know that no sparrin' partner should take cheap shots at the Champ. He's just there to help condition the man.
JERGENS: Not spar, I'm asking whether you would be interested in fighting Creed for the The weight of the statement comes crashing down in Rocky. For a long moment he becomes nothing more than a basket case as he ponders the statement. He half regains his senses.
ROCKY: . Ah. Absolutely. The SCENE FADES and becomes a black and white television.
REPORTER #1: How'd you like the 'City of Brotherly Love?'
APOLLO: I like my Philadelphia Brothers. An' I'm patriotic! Apollo has to move to the side to avoid a thrusting If yo' don't back up I'm gonna send yo' home with a microphone in yo' nose! The Reporters laugh.
APOLLO: ( continuing; mock seriousness ) If yo' don't back up I'm gonna send yo' home with a microphone in yo' nose! The Reporters laugh.
REPORTER #2: Why did you agree to fight a man who has virtually no chance of winning?
APOLLO: If history proves one thing, everybody gotta chance Didn't yo' all ever hear of David an' Goliath? 'Course I woulda knocked out Goliath.
REPORTER #3: It is a coincidence that you're fighting a white man on the most celebrated day in the country's history?
APOLLO: The same coincidence that he's fightin' a black man.
REPORTER #1: What're your feelings about the challenger?
APOLLO: He's Italian.
REPORTER #1: What does that mean?
APOLLO: It means if he can't fight, I bet he can cook! Rocky and Adrian laugh at the interview. Paulie, her brother, takes offense.
PAULIE: Do me a favor His lungs, punch 'em out.
ADRIAN: Rocky's interview now fills the screen. Rocky squints and looks nervous under the hot lights.
REPORTER #2: This is your largest payday ever How do you feel about Feel? I dunno. Happy.
ROCKY: Feel? I dunno. Happy.
REPORTER #2: How will you fight Apollo Creed?
ROCKY: ( mind elsewhere ) Creed's great, ain't he. I'll do what I can.
REPORTER #1: Where did you get the name, 'Italian Stallion?'
ROCKY: I thought of it 'bout eight years ago, when I was eatin' Is it true the most you've ever made in a prizefight is five hundred dollars?
REPORTER #2: Is it true the most you've ever made in a prizefight is five hundred dollars?
ROCKY: Four hundred But that was a long time ago.
REPORTER #2: And now your payday will be one hundred and fifty thousand dollars. Any comment?
ROCKY: Listen, I wanna say hi to my girlfriend Yo, Adrian! Adrian blushes and laughs.
ADRIAN: Oh, Rocky!
PAULIE: ( dry ) You didn't!
ADRIAN: You didn't!
ROCKY: Sure I did. You heard. They continue to watch the remainder of the interview. The head COMMENTATOR is looking directly into the camera.
COMMENTATOR: A Bicentennial Fight January first. It will be the first sporting event on our two hundredth birthday and is already being called by many the greatest farce in sports history. If this man lasts more than a minute I would say he's on borrowed time. It's matches like this with their exorbitant prices that give sports a bad name Not only is this match bad, people, it's sad! Why a Rocky Balboa? At the State Athletic Commission, Larry Duggan The guy's a friggin' moron.
PAULIE: ( irate ) The guy's a friggin' moron.
ROCKY: Don't it matter none he's makin' ya out a fool? I'd break his lips.
PAULIE: Don't it matter none he's makin' ya out a fool? I'd break his lips.
ROCKY: It don't matter.
PAULIE: He's takin' cheap shots.
ROCKY: It don't bother me none.
PAULIE: Yo, Rock now ya'll be lookin' for people to help, Help what?
ROCKY: Help what?
PAULIE: Y'know, to help keep ya livin' I'll do okay.
ROCKY: I'll do okay.
PAULIE: Ya gotta have a guy help ya exercise, mebbe somebody to be standin' by with a towel or run errands, y'know.
ROCKY: Hey, who cared about me yesterday, huh? Nobody I think I'm gonna train myself.
PAULIE: Without havin' good people around, ya won't have such a good chance. Adrian is not happy with her brother's overbearing attitude. She faces him.
ADRIAN: Einstein flunked out of school. twice.
PAULIE: That so.
ADRIAN: Roosevelt finished last in his class Beethoven was deaf, an' Helen Keller was blind I think Rocky has a good chance.
ROCKY: See ya tomorrow. Rocky moves down the stairway and continues to do so as he converses with Adrian who remains upstairs. His VOICE ECHOES up the stairwell.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) How'd ya like hearin' ya name on TV?
ADRIAN: I don't know I was shocked. Why did you do that?
ROCKY: Ya puttin' me on, right?
ADRIAN: ( smiles ) Absolutely What time should I expect you?
ROCKY: 'Bout seven.
ADRIAN: I'll be waiting. Rocky is now on the ground floor yelling up to Adrian on the top floor landing.
ROCKY: Y'know how I said that stuff on television didn't bother me?
ADRIAN: It did. As Rocky completes the last word, he exits the building and slams the door which RESOUNDS throughout the apartment house.
ROCKY: It did. As Rocky completes the last word, he exits the building and slams the door which RESOUNDS throughout the apartment house.
ROCKY: Y'know I won't be able to work for ya no more.
GAZZO: Hey if a good man can make a better life, let him make it.
ROCKY: I feel bad about walkin'.
GAZZO: Take your shot, kid You got money for trainin' expenses?
ROCKY: A few bucks. Gazzo takes out a wad and peels off several bills.
GAZZO: Here's five hundred Put it in your glove.
ROCKY: Do I have to pay juice? Gazzo looks at the Bodyguard and shakes his head as if to imply, "Why's this guy asking such a foolish question?" Gazzo and the bodyguard step to the white Caddy parked at the curb. They enter the cab. Rocky watches.
GAZZO: ( smiles ) Does Santa Claus charge juice? Merry Christmas Now, how's about my present, ya gonna win?
ROCKY: Gonna try.
GAZZO: Listen, kid, I'm with ya. Ya know, I'm with ya Italian, we're blood. You kill this rug We Guinneas gotta show these Afro-Americans where it's at. Give it your best shot cause I want ya to prove to these bums on the corner that my man can't be beat by this rug. Ya got any action on the side.
ROCKY: No action.
GAZZO: Ya gettin 150 grand killer. Ya got any plans for it? Whatta ya think?
ROCKY: I'm gonna do somethin with it.
GAZZO: Sure, you do what ya want. Stay away from the stock market.
ROCKY: Black market?
GAZZO: Same thing. Ya know, Rock, remember when we was kids, we fought together. An' I wasn't well an' ya had to beat up that Irish kid what's his name? Gallager I bought a suit and became a businessman. You put on gloves. An' I remember Mama almost cried, may she rest in peace an' our ol' man who said ya had no brains I'd like to lay hands on that bastard. You ain't never had any luck. Even when I owned you in '66 you never had luck. But now I think you might be gettin' some luck kid. Whatta you Rocky smiles and Gazzo gets into his car. Rocky follows him across the street.
ROCKY: Yo, you gonna show, Tony?
GAZZO: Where else am I gonna go. Bet three grand on Rocky.
BODYGUARD: He's a bum are you kiddin?
GAZZO: ( slaps Bodyguard ) No! I'm not kiddin! Rocky walks away.
ROCKY: Look who's home! Rocky notices two telegrams laying inside the threshold. He approaches them with a sense of awe. He opens and reads one. Settling on the bed, he reads the other. A KNOCK is HEARD. Rocky opens the door. Mickey Goldmill, the gym owner, stands framed in the doorway.
MICKEY: ( stiffly ) I seen the light. I figure somebody was home.
ROCKY: Hey, Mickey Whatta ya doin' here? Here, sit down. Rocky tosses soiled clothing off a mangled armchair.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) Best seat in the house Hey, Mick, this is too much.
MICKEY: How do you mean?
ROCKY: I'm usta seein' ya at the gym, but seein' ya here, in my house, it's kinda outta joint. By the manner in which Goldmill listens, it is obvious something important is preying on his mind. Rocky is slightly uncomfortable, almost embarrassed at having outsiders see how he lives.
MICKEY: Listen, Rock, you're a very lucky guy.
ROCKY: What's happened is freak luck.
MICKEY: What's happened is freak luck.
ROCKY: Freak luck for sure.
MICKEY: Look at all them other fighters. Real good boys. Good records. Colorful. Fight their hearts out for peanuts But who cared? Nobody. They got it shoved in their back door. Nobody ever give them a shot at the title.
ROCKY: ( uneasy ) Freak luck is a strange thing. Mickey does not hear. His attention is drawn to the turtles.
MICKEY: Whatta' those?
ROCKY: Turtles domestic turtles.
MICKEY: ( businesslike ) I'm here tellin' ya to be very smart with this shot. Like the Bible sez, ya don't get no second chance. Mickey looks hard into Rocky's eyes.
MICKEY: ( continuing ) Ya need a manager. An advisor. I been in the racket fifty years. I done it all, there ain't nothin' about the world of pugilism that ain't livin' up here. He lights a half-smoked cigar.
ROCKY: ( at a loss ) Fifty years, huh.
MICKEY: ( stronger ) Fifty years. The rep is known around Philly, an' a good rep can't be bought, but I don't have to tell you that.
ROCKY: How 'bout a glass of water?
MICKEY: Rocky, d'ya know what I done?
ROCKY: ( uneasy ) . What?
MICKEY: ( driving each word hard ) I done it all. I've done an' seen everything'. Believe what I'm tellin' ya Ya shoulda seen the night in Brooklyn, I smacked 'Ginny' Russo outta the ring, September 14, 1923 same night Firpo knocked Dempsey outta the ring. But who got the Press? He did. He had a manager September
ROCKY: ( softly ) Ya got a good mind for dates. Mickey deafly continues, becoming more engrossed every second.
MICKEY: Look at this face twenty- one stitches over the left eye, thirty-four over the right my nose was busted seventeen times, the last being the Sailor Mike fight New Year's Eve, 1940, in Camden, New Jersey What a professional pastin' I give him. Here, read about it.
ROCKY: Nobody ever said that There's his picture.
MICKEY: Yeah, ya kinda remind me of the Rock. Ya move like 'im. Mickey has rung the bell. Nothing could please Rocky more than being compared to his idol.
ROCKY: Really think so?
MICKEY: Ya got heart.
ROCKY: Heart, but I ain't got no Rocky shifts against the wall and lowers himself into a Christ, I know this business. Rocky, when I was fightin' it was the dirtiest racket goin', see. Pugs like me was treated like fightin' dogs throw ya in the pit an' for ten bucks ya try to kill each other. We had no management.
MICKEY: Christ, I know this business. Rocky, when I was fightin' it was the dirtiest racket goin', see. Pugs like me was treated like fightin' dogs throw ya in the pit an' for ten bucks ya try to kill each other. We had no management.
MICKEY: ( continuing ) Respect, I always dished ya . Ya gave Dipper my locker.
ROCKY: . Ya gave Dipper my locker.
MICKEY: ( almost begging ) I'm sorry, I I made a mistake. Kid, I'm askin' man to man. I wanna be ya manager.
ROCKY: The fight's set I don't need a manager.
MICKEY: Look, you can't buy what I know. Ya can't. I've seen it all! I got pain an' I got I got pain an' experience too.
ROCKY: I got pain an' experience too.
MICKEY: Please, kid.
ROCKY: ( tightly ) Whatever I got, I always got on the slide. This shot's no different. I didn't earn nothin' I got it on the slide. I needed ya help about ten years ago when I was startin', but ya never helped me none. Mickey drops the ashtray and kneels to pick it up. He remains on one knee.
MICKEY: If ya was wantin' my help, why didn't ya ask? Just ask.
ROCKY: I asked, but ya never helped nothin'! Like the Bible sez, ya don't get no second Rocky, I'm seventy-six years old. Maybe you can be the winner I never was your shot is my last shot! Rocky is choked and goes into the bathroom and closes the Mickey struggles to his feet and, like a beaten man, leaves. Several moments later Rocky steps out and lowers himself into bed. Springing up a second later, he runs outside.
MICKEY: ( yells ) Rocky, I'm seventy-six years old. Maybe you can be the winner I never was your shot is my last shot! Rocky is choked and goes into the bathroom and closes the Mickey struggles to his feet and, like a beaten man, leaves. Several moments later Rocky steps out and lowers himself into bed. Springing up a second later, he runs outside.
PAULIE: How ya feelin'?
ROCKY: ( panting ) . Tight.
PAULIE: I got whiskey here.
ROCKY: . No. Rocky notices TWO PUERTO RICANS lounging alongside theshipping office.
PAULIE: This is the guy who's fightin' Apollo Creed.
JOSE: ( heavy accent ) Good luck Kill him, man.
PAULIE: ( as though rehearsed badly ) Hip Hip Hooray! C'mon Hip Hip
JOSE: ( walks away ) Hooray, man.
PAULIE: Rock'll be comin' by every mornin' to pick up some Prime can't train on that store crap. Rocky smiles and Paulie leads him out of the office and to the large metal door of a walk-in refrigerator.
PAULIE: ( teasing ) If ya don't pay Gazzo, ya end up hangin' on the hook, right?
ROCKY: Gazzo's a good man.
PAULIE: How 'bout you talk to 'em about me? Please do me that favor.
ROCKY: Keep this job, ya eat better. Paulie opens a jackknife and idly jabs the hanging meat. He swills whiskey from a pint bottle.
PAULIE: Y'know, d'ya think you an' my sister Ah, doin' good Whatta you think?
ROCKY: Whatta you think?
PAULIE: Ain't sure, what's the story?
ROCKY: The story what's happenin'? Paulie speaks like a man who has been mulling this over for quite a while.
PAULIE: The story what's happenin'? Paulie speaks like a man who has been mulling this over for quite a while.
PAULIE: ( continuing ) Ya really like her?
ROCKY: Sure I like her.
PAULIE: ( nervous laughter ) What's the attraction? I don't see it?
ROCKY: I dunno she fills gaps.
PAULIE: What gaps?
ROCKY: ( shrugs and takes meat ) She got gaps. I got gaps together we fill the gaps.
PAULIE: ( sharply ) You ballin' her?
ROCKY: ( turns around ) Don't talk dirty 'bout ya ( tersely ) C'mon, ya screwin' her? From across the room Rocky looks him hard in the eyes.
PAULIE: ( tersely ) C'mon, ya screwin' her? From across the room Rocky looks him hard in the eyes.
ROCKY: That's why I can't put ya together with Gazzo, cause ya talk too much big mouth. Paulie reddens. He steps forward and slams his fists in a hanging beef.
PAULIE: Hit the rump. The rump! Ya'll break the ribs! Rocky speeds up and continues pounding on the second row of beef. Paulie's eyes widen and his face grimaces with every punch, like he were receiving it. Rocky moves into the dark recess of the refrigerator. Only the dull SOUNDS of his POUNDING FISTS can be HEARD. Rocky works his way to Paulie again. Every hanging beef swings and appears surrealistically alive.
PAULIE: ( continuing ) We do that to Creed an' they'll take us to jail for Rocky looks at his hands. They are drenched in red up to the elbows with beef blood. Paulie hands him a package of beef.
ROCKY: Don't talk dirty 'bout ya Rocky takes the package and runs out. Paulie's bleary eyes reveal a fearful respect and slight resentment.
MICKEY: ( passionate ) Stop! Stop! I can't stand it! It's clumsy. You're off He motions to his bullish helper, Mike. He hands him the ( continuing ) Tie it to both ankles Leave two feet slack.
MICKEY: ( continuing ) Tie it to both ankles Leave two feet slack.
ROCKY: I never had good footwork. Mike completes the task.
MICKEY: Forget the footwork You're off balance. The legs are sticking everywhere. Marciano had the same problem, an' the string cured it. When you can hit and move without breakin' the string you'll have balance.
MIKE: You'll be a very dangerous Two young boys in street clothes interrupt Mickey.
BOY: Rocky, could we have your . Sure.
ROCKY: . Sure.
MICKEY: ( irate ) Don't you boys ever interrupt when I'm conductin' business, or I'll kill you both Go The boys depart.
MICKEY: ( continuing ) Autographs! Ya wanna be a writer or a fighter? Let's Mike looks off across the gym.
MIKE: . we got visitors. Mickey strains his eyes to see a group of REPORTERS and NEWS CAMERAMEN entering his gym.
MICKEY: ( approaching ) Can I help you guys?
REPORTER: ( to Cameraman ) Set the camera up over there. ( to Mickey ) We're from Channel Seven Covering the pre-fight training.
MICKEY: I own the place. The Reporter has a hundred things on his mind. he turns from Mickey and nods to his crew. the other television crews rush to set up.
CAMERAMAN: Rolling here.
SOUND MAN: Speed here.
REPORTER: ( to the camera ) We're here at Goldmill's Gym A Philadelphia landmark of sorts since 1929 The stench of toil permeates every corner. The sweat a trademark of a unique profession. Yet, the most unique fixture is an unprecedented 50 to 1 underdog heavyweight named, Rocky Balboa. The camera turns to Rocky.
ROCKY: ( to Mickey ) Should I do this? Mickey nods and Rocky faces the glaring lights.
REPORTER: So much has happened lately Has it changed your life style . People talk to me more.
ROCKY: . People talk to me more.
REPORTER: How're you preparing for this Bicentennial bout? A young punchy fighter yells out:
FIGHTER: Readin' fuckin' history books, The gym explodes with laughter.
REPORTER: ( flushed ) We can cut that out later. Apollo Creed says he'll let you stay three rounds before he puts you away.
ROCKY: ( honestly ) Apollo's a great fighter.
REPORTER: Do you feel you have a chance?
ROCKY: He faces Mickey. Mickey whispers in his ear.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) I'll tear his head off.
REPORTER: Do you have anything derogatory to say about the Champion?
ROCKY: Derogatory? Yeah, he's great. Apollo Creed and his entourage enter the gym.
APOLLO: ( bellowing ) I am the Champion of the whole The gym freezes. everyone turns and stares in wonderment. Mickey Goldmill shakes his head in disbelief. He now realizes it is a publicity stunt.
APOLLO: ( continuing ) ( approaching Rocky ) Italian Stallion, I come over to tell you to be very smart an' after this fight donate what's gonna be left of your body to science, cause after this fight what's left won't fill a tuna fish can!. So beware, Mon Cher!!! Apollo turns to the cameras. Rocky is speechless.
APOLLO: ( continuing ) This classic fight Tha's right, this bicentennial fight's goin' down in the history books 'cause January first I'm gonna be the first man to bounce another man offa the planet Pluto! Dipper stands in the far ring. the attention Rocky is receiving makes him a killer.
APOLLO: ( continuing ) Now I gots a special announcement, y'hear. For the first time in alotta years this championship fight is gonna be on your home T.V.! Free 'Course that's just for Philly My present to the city.
DIPPER: ( loud ) Ya nothin', Boy! Apollo stops his sales pitch in mid-sentence. The television crew faces Dipper.
DIPPER: ( continuing ) I say ya nothin'!
MICKEY: What's happenin' here?
DIPPER: I'm happenin'! This pig is takin' my shot I iz a contender. He's nothin'.
ROCKY: ( dumbstruck ) Yo', Dipper, why're ya
DIPPER: ( shaking his fist ) Spar me in front of these here TV dudes I knock ya ass to Dipper's fat black trainer holds out his hands and Dipper slaps them soul style.
MICKEY: ( to Dipper ) You can forget about sparring, Yo' know I iz the best man here! Yo' said so yoself!
DIPPER: Yo' know I iz the best man here! Yo' said so yoself!
MICKEY: ( almost to the crew ) Why let Rocky here take a chance on cuttin' or breakin' a hand? Take a shower, Don't mouth me, old man, I'll knock yo' out too. C'mon, wop, spar me, let everybody see who's got the heat around Silence looms over the gym. Apollo is apprehensive. The scene is becoming too real. The frightened television crew slyly begins putting away their expensive equipment.
DIPPER: Don't mouth me, old man, I'll knock yo' out too. C'mon, wop, spar me, let everybody see who's got the heat around Silence looms over the gym. Apollo is apprehensive. The scene is becoming too real. The frightened television crew slyly begins putting away their expensive equipment.
DIPPER: ( continuing; insanely ) Man, yo' best keep them cameras out! Fight me, boy! Let Creed here see the kind of punk he's fightin'! Mike forces his way through the crowd and stands behind Rocky.
MIKE: Don't chance it, man He's This is gettin' outta hand Rocky will fight in the ring January first, not here!
MICKEY: This is gettin' outta hand Rocky will fight in the ring January first, not here!
DIPPER: Yo' yellow, old man.
MICKEY: Not yellow, cautious. See, it's very easy for a fighter to accidentally hurt Dipper suddenly steps forward and slaps Rocky very hard across the side of the head. The gym becomes stone cold. Dipper is in total command and enjoying every moment of it.
DIPPER: If yo're afraid to fight me, then get down an' kiss my feet, boy. Mickey looks nervously around and knows it's only seconds before the blood will run. Rocky stands motionless.
MICKEY: ( softly ) Let's take a walk, Rock. Please, don't take a chance. He wants to hurt you so you can't fight. Rocky swallows his pride. He still has the string around his ankles. He starts to shuffle away with Mickey. Dipper steps forward and viciously slaps Rocky again. Mike jumps forward.
MIKE: Why you tryin' to cut 'im, man! Back off, scumbag, or I'll bite your face! Dipper cuts loose with a hook and knocks Mike flat. The room reeks of fear. Apollo's eyes flick back and forth between Rocky and Dipper. Apollo taps his bodyguards and they begin to ease away.
DIPPER: . Now, boy, kiss my feet. Rocky eyes his friend lying on the floor. He shuffles forward and stands before Dipper.
DIPPER: ( continuing; almost in a whisper ) . Kiss 'em. Rocky looks at Mickey, then lowers his eyes to Dipper's feet. Dipper smiles. Rocky starts to bend towards the shoes. Without warning, he explodes with a pair of combinations into Dipper's exposed ribs. A CRACK is HEARD and Dipper sinks to the floor writhing in pain. The room is silent except for Dipper's moaning. Apollo is stunned by the scene. The gym has become a very gloomy place. He eyes Rocky with admiration and a hint of apprehension. He leaves.
MICKEY: The kid's got cannons Print The crowd disperses, leaving Dipper a pathetic and broken figure lying on a dirty gym floor.
ADRIAN: Don't you open them anymore?
ROCKY: They either say, 'Kill the nigger' or 'Hope you die, Honky.' What ya got in the Adrian steps to the window. She pulls a pair of short but lovely curtains from a shopping bag. The colorful curtains glare in the dark room.
ADRIAN: Sharp Real nice.
ROCKY: Sharp Real nice.
ADRIAN: Really You don't think they're overly feminine?
ROCKY: No. Sharp You look great. Adrian smiles and pulls out a small Christmas wreath. Rocky smiles. His eyes show what he feels for this woman.
ROCKY: Adrian, you really look great, y'know But I can't fool around durin' trainin' makes the legs weak.
ADRIAN: Don't want weak legs.
ROCKY: Can't fool around You look very great.
ADRIAN: The legs.
ROCKY: Yeah. But I think weak legs ain't bad sometimes, y'know. Rocky approaches in a seductive manner. Adrian uncharacteristically removes her sweater. Underneath is a T-shirt that reads "Win, Rocky, Win."
ADRIAN: I thought it might be cute.
ROCKY: Ya right Mebbe we best just hold hands the shirt made me feel guilty, y'know.
PAULIE: Yo, Rock. I made a few phone calls an' thanks to me ya goin' to be a big man Thatta dog?
ROCKY: Whatta these guys want?
PAULIE: To see ya train.
ROCKY: Yo, what's with you? It was suppose to be private.
PAULIE: I thought I was doin' ya a favor C'mon inside Y'know, my sister really likes Rocky follows Paulie inside.
COMMENTATOR: Just relax, Mr. Balboa Today we're here with heavyweight challenger, Rocky Balboa. The reason we are standing in a refrigerated box is that Mr. Balboa has an unusual method of training and in a moment he is going to demonstrate it for our viewing audience But first, Rocky, how did you ever come to train in an icebox?
ROCKY: Ah My buddy Paulie let me in one day an' I hit the beef here an' liked it An' since I become a challenger, the owner don't mind neither.
COMMENTATOR: Is this a common training method I mean do other fighters pound raw meat?
ROCKY: I think me and Paulie invented Would you give us a Rocky steps over to a hanging beef and begins pounding with incredible intensity. Everyone present is taken aback. Rocky completes hitting the meat and stands there with his hands dripping beef blood. The Commentator is unnerved and Rocky looks straight into the camera lens and holds up his bloody fists.
COMMENTATOR: Would you give us a Rocky steps over to a hanging beef and begins pounding with incredible intensity. Everyone present is taken aback. Rocky completes hitting the meat and stands there with his hands dripping beef blood. The Commentator is unnerved and Rocky looks straight into the camera lens and holds up his bloody fists.
COMMENTATOR: . Diane Lewis in the meathouse with the Southpaw, Rocky Balboa.
APOLLO: How much is being channeled into West Coast closed-circuit Three hundred thousand.
LAWYER: Three hundred thousand.
APOLLO: Make it four hundred an' fifty. Send two hundred roses to the mayor's wife from me, get a picture an' make sure it gets all the papers.
BUSINESSMAN #3: Do ya want to run the fifteen radio spots in the mid-west? I think you could spend the money better in Canadian Yeah, I'd like to get Canada see, if we can get a tax break Gimme the figures on the Program Concession. Meanwhile, the trainer sits across the room in a darkened corner looking at a small television. He is watching Rocky's bloody exhibition on the news. He waves at Apollo.
APOLLO: Yeah, I'd like to get Canada see, if we can get a tax break Gimme the figures on the Program Concession. Meanwhile, the trainer sits across the room in a darkened corner looking at a small television. He is watching Rocky's bloody exhibition on the news. He waves at Apollo.
TRAINER: ( worried ) Apollo, you oughta come see this boy you're gonna fight on TV looks like he means Apollo is still engrossed in his paperwork.
APOLLO: I mean business, too The gross rental of the arena is gonna include the four hundred ushers, right? Gimme some coffee.
ADRIAN: . And he called the Yeah. Threw my whole day off.
ROCKY: Yeah. Threw my whole day off.
ADRIAN: Don't be mad at him He just wants to help.
ROCKY: Yo I ain't mad. I'm just outta joint when reporters are around They take cheap shots an' Paulie knows it.
ADRIAN: . Are you going to say anything to him?
ROCKY: . What's to say? I dunno what he wants from me Filled with uncontrollable anger, Paulie smashes into the Nothin'! I want nothin' from Shutup! I want nothin' I ain't no charity case! Get outta my house!
PAULIE: Nothin'! I want nothin' from Shutup! I want nothin' I ain't no charity case! Get outta my house!
ADRIAN: Shutup! I want nothin' I ain't no charity case! Get outta my house!
PAULIE: Shutup! I want nothin' I ain't no charity case! Get outta my house!
ADRIAN: It's not your house
PAULIE: You ain't no friend no more Go home! Outta my house I want ya!
ADRIAN: Don't talk like that to him!
PAULIE: Get outta my life both of ya's. Paulie kicks the door out of frustration and appears to be bordering on a nervous breakdown.
PAULIE: ( continuing ) Outta my house I want ya!!
ROCKY: . It's cold outside, Paulie. Paulie goes to the living room closet and removes a baseball bat. Rocky and Adrian quickly follow.
PAULIE: I don't want ya messin' up my sister no more He's scum from the corner, I don't raise ya to hang with no bum! Adrian is speechless. Rocky moves towards Paulie.
PAULIE: ( continuing; raising the bat ) . Wanna hit on me? C'mon C'mon, I'll break both ya arms so's they never work. Rocky freezes.
ADRIAN: . Paulie. Stop now!
PAULIE: I want 'im outta here Don't think I'm good enough to work for Gazzo? That's what I think of bums like you an' Gazzo! You're goin' up an' don't care enough to throw Paulie some I give ya meat, an' I give ya my sister, too!
ADRIAN: Only a pig would say that! Paulie smashes a small table with the bat.
PAULIE: ( to Adrian ) You forget what I went through to give ya the best.
ADRIAN: You gave me what?! Knots! You gave me knots in here every day you made me scared of everything!
PAULIE: I always seen ya had the best, but did ya ever think of puttin' in a good word for me with this scumbag! Paulie smashes a large lamp with the bat.
ADRIAN: Don't do that again!
PAULIE: Get away from me I could never even get married 'cause you couldn't live by yaself ya'd die by yaself! So instead I put you two together Did ya think of puttin' in a good word for me? You owe me!
ADRIAN: Owe you what?
PAULIE: You owe me an' are supposed to treat me good!
ADRIAN: Good? Good, Paulie?! I've been treatin' you like a baby. Since I can't remember it's so long I'm the only one who feeds you an' puts you in bed when ya can't stand up and it's you that made me feel like a loser That's what ya use to call me 'Loser' What kind of name is that? So can ya blame me for not remembering to talk about you when I'm with Rocky I don't owe you, Paulie, you owe me. The brother flares up and threatens Adrian with the bat.
PAULIE: You busted?!
ADRIAN: You a virgin? Ya let 'im in ya pants, didn't ya! Ya pulled down ya pants an' let him have it, didn't ya!! Mortified, Adrian runs to her room. Rocky steps to Paulie.
PAULIE: You a virgin? Ya let 'im in ya pants, didn't ya! Ya pulled down ya pants an' let him have it, didn't ya!! Mortified, Adrian runs to her room. Rocky steps to Paulie.
ROCKY: ( fuming ) Paulie cocks the bat back and tenses. Rocky remains still.
PAULIE: ( softly ) . I can't haul meat no more.
ROCKY: What can I do about it?
PAULIE: Christ, I been beggin' ya for a break until I'm sick inside.
ROCKY: What break? Huh? What break! Who am I to give breaks! I'm a fighter, you haul meat. You do what you do an' I do what I do best that's it that's life, man! Paulie looks ashamed. Rocky walks, then returns.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) . An' what ya said to my girlfriend ain't right Do it again, I'll kill ya. Rocky goes into the bedroom. Adrian has buried her face in a pillow. She is rocking slightly. Rocky cradles her and kisses her cheek.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) Wanna hear a dirty joke?
ADRIAN: ( smiles ) . Yes
MICKEY: His defense is great, can't lie 'bout that You have a rollin' style. Can't retreat as fast But your style ain't retreatin'. They both watch the flickering images.
MICKEY: ( continuing ) See how he plays sometimes Drives his cornermen nuts. Nobody knows his next move Him included. They watch more action. Creed has a fighter helpless against the ropes.
MICKEY: ( continuing ) Killer instinct Ya both got the killer touch. Interestin'. See that! Right-cross combination. Beautiful. But you got the power to rip the They watch more action.
MICKEY: ( continuing ) Rocky, when ya climb into the square, an' know ya' meetin' the best fighter in the world, ya' gonna be ready, ya' gonna be ready 'cause I been waitin' for fifty years Fifty years. When I'm done with you, you'll gonna be able to spit nails.
MICKEY: What cha say, Benny Meet 'The Rock.' This is our cutman, Benny Stein.
ROCKY: Yo, Benny.
MICKEY: Check the eyes, Ben.
BENNY: Ain't bad. Seen worse Cover up an' things should be Take a shower. Heading towards the shower, Rocky is intercepted by Paulie who traverses the gym. He stops Rocky at the shower room Yo, Rock, I think I found an angle to make some bread usin' ya name, ya mind? Exhausted, Rocky studies Paulie's face a moment and nods 'yes.'. Rocky sways into the shower room and Paulie strides off.
MICKEY: Take a shower. Heading towards the shower, Rocky is intercepted by Paulie who traverses the gym. He stops Rocky at the shower room Yo, Rock, I think I found an angle to make some bread usin' ya name, ya mind? Exhausted, Rocky studies Paulie's face a moment and nods 'yes.'. Rocky sways into the shower room and Paulie strides off.
PAULIE: Yo, Rock, I think I found an angle to make some bread usin' ya name, ya mind? Exhausted, Rocky studies Paulie's face a moment and nods 'yes.'. Rocky sways into the shower room and Paulie strides off.
MAYOR: Sit down, Rocky. Flips open a thick file that lays in front of him.
MAYOR: ( continuing ) I've been going over your record You've been the busy ( reading ) Nineteen arrests probation three times expelled from seven public schools in 1964 and '65. Rocky tries to sink into the chair.
MAYOR: ( continuing ) I'm a very busy man, but I just wanted to remind you that you'll be setting an example for thousands of guys like yourself and maybe start them off in a new direction and give our police force a break I also hope you try your very best and bring pride to Philadelphia.
ROCKY: . I'll try. The mayor presses a button and a photographer enters.
MAYOR: Would you stand up, please. Rocky rises and the mayor shakes his hand. Their picture is taken three times. The photographer exits.
MAYOR: ( continuing ) Thank you for coming by, Rocky good luck.
ROCKY: ( turns ) Any time.
MAYOR: ( sitting ) Wait. After the fight you'll have nearly a hundred and fifty thousand dollars What do you plan to do with it?
ROCKY: ( smiles ) . Run for mayor. The mayor is shocked at first but then breaks into a big, friendly laugh, and Rocky exits.
ADRIAN: Rocky, do you realize everybody in this country knows your face, and after the fight everybody in the world is going to.
ROCKY: She flips through Sports Illustrated, The American Sportsman, Ring Magazine, World Boxing, True, and a multitude of other The TELEPHONE RINGS. Rocky rises and walks to the new white object hanging on the wall.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) My first call. Hello? Yeah, speakin' Who is this? Bruce? Bruce who? Yo, Bruce! How ya been? I ain't seen ya for nine or eight years Yeah, things is great, how's things with you upstate Ya sellin' real estate, hey, that's a good job. Yeah, I gotta advance, but I bought ringside seats for the guys at the gym. I get the hundred an' fifty grand after the fight. Adrian overhears the statement.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) . Yeah, I know it's a lotta money Condominiums? Nobody uses them anybody. Listen, I think a pet shop is a good investment, y'know I don't care 'bout long hours there's no depreciation that don't matter none to me Yeah, I like animals. Why don't ya give me ya number an' I'll call ya back? Lemme getta pencil Rocky makes no motion to get a pencil.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) Okay, what is it four- twelve 659-2424. Yeah, yeah, thanks for callin' Sure I'll get back to ya, Bruce see ya. Rocky hangs up.
ADRIAN: What was that you said about a pet shop?
ROCKY: ( distant ) . What?
ADRIAN: What did you say about a pet I don't want ya cleanin' nobody else's cages no more.
ROCKY: I don't want ya cleanin' nobody else's cages no more.
ADRIAN: Is everything all right?
ROCKY: I gotta go out for a while. Rocky grabs his coat and moves to the front door.
ROCKY: ( continuing; to dog ) . Come.
MICKEY: . I know what you're thinkin'm kid At least ya gotta shot All ya can do is try ya' best. Rocky stands and, with his dog, inches past Mickey and exits the room. Mickey walks over and turns off the projector. He idly pushes the machine with a lazy motion until it slides off the desk and crashes to the floor.
ROCKY: . Can't do it.
ADRIAN: . What?
ROCKY: . I can't beat him.
ADRIAN: Yeah, I can't beat him. Adrian touches his face.
ROCKY: Yeah, I can't beat him. Adrian touches his face.
ROCKY: I been watchin' the movies studyin' He ain't weak What're we going to do?
ADRIAN: What're we going to do?
ROCKY: . I dunno.
ADRIAN: Oh, Rocky you worked so hard.
ROCKY: It ain't so bad, 'cause I was a nothin' before
ADRIAN: Don't say that.
ROCKY: C'mon, it's true But that don't bother me I just wanna prove somethin' I ain't no bum. It don't matter if I lose. Don't matter if he opens my head. The only thing I wanna do is go the distance That's all. Nobody's ever gone fifteen rounds with Creed. If I go them fifteen rounds, an' that bell rings an' I'm still standin', I'm gonna know then I weren't just another bum from the neighborhood. Adrian touches Rocky's face. The fighter gently lowers himself beside his woman.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) . No foolin' around.
MICKEY: . It's time, kid. Rocky nods and moves toward Adrian.
ADRIAN: . I'll wait for you here. Rocky nods and she kisses him. The fighter leaves with his trainers. Adrian is on the verge of tears.
ROCKY: Yo, Mick, can I have my rob? Rocky puts on the robe. Embroidered across the back in flaming letters is:
MICKEY: Don't you care what the people will say?
ROCKY: . I'm doin' it for a friend.
MICKEY: Whatta you get outta this?
ROCKY: I get the robe an' Paulie gets three grand.
MICKEY: . Shrewd.
COMMENTATOR #1: We would like to welcome our viewing audience to the Grand World Championship Bicentennial Heavyweight Fight the first major event of the Bicentennial Year. A point of interest is that the fight is being beamed to more than seven hundred and fifty million fans in theatres in nearly every corner of the world. I would like to welcome an old friend, and co- commentator for this evening's event Jimmy Michaels.
COMMENTATOR #2: Thank you, Bob. The electricity is everywhere tonight. Rocky Balboa, a fifty-to-one underdog, is living a Cinderella story which has captured peoples' imaginations all over the world to quote a popular sports magazine, 'The fighting style should be 'The Caveman Against the Cavalier.' From the increase in sound it appears the challenger is now approaching the ring. His record is forty-four wins, twenty losses and thirty-eight I only wonder if this man has the skill to go past three rounds Vegas odds say, 'no.'
COMMENTATOR #1: I only wonder if this man has the skill to go past three rounds Vegas odds say, 'no.'
ANOTHER ANGLE: A wedge of uniformed guards knife down the aisle to the ring. Many people wish Rocky well as he passes. people also hurl insults. From the expression on Mickey's face it is also the greatest night of his life. In the audience are familiar faces from the gym. From the back of the arena a ROAR goes up. Apollo Creed is in a mock boat dressed like George Washington. He throws silver dollars. The NOISE builds to DEAFENING proportions. Creed's trainer holds the rope and Creed bounds into the ring. He tears off the Washington outfit and it is clearly SEEN that Apollo Creed is garbed in an outrageous Uncle Sam outfit. On his head is a red, white and blue sequined top hat. The robe is sequined red, white and blue. His boxing trunks are red, white and blue silk with stars around the waistband. The boxing shoes match the trunks. On his chin is a pointed white Uncle Sam
COMMENTATOR #2: You could go deaf with the noise it undoubtedly means Champion Apollo Creed is heading towards the ring
COMMENTATOR #1: Am I seeing right? Creed is approaching the ring in a boat. Is he supposed to be George Washington? Obviously so.
COMMENTATOR #2: It's been confirmed that it is definitely an impersonation of George Washington a great way to start 1976 off.
COMMENTATOR #1: I agree. Immediately Creed begins gracefully dancing in a wide circle. He passes within inches of Rocky in his Uncle Sam outfit.
APOLLO: I want you! I want you! The crowd loves the taunting. Apollo Creed floats back to his corner.
MICKEY: Don't let 'im get you tight.
ROCKY: Whatta ya think that outfit ANOTHER ANGLE The ANNOUNCER steps to the center of the ring. Several men in suits stand against the ropes. Paulie is dressed nicely and sits at ringside with a pretty blonde escort. Rocky waves at him. Paulie waves back and secretly gestures at his date. Rocky smiles and gestures back.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The ANNOUNCER steps to the center of the ring. Several men in suits stand against the ropes. Paulie is dressed nicely and sits at ringside with a pretty blonde escort. Rocky waves at him. Paulie waves back and secretly gestures at his date. Rocky smiles and gestures back.
ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen Welcome to the Bicentennial Heavyweight Championship Fight. We are very proud to have with us four former Great Champions. Ladies an' gents, 'The one and only 'Manassa Mauler' Jack Dempsey!' The CROWD ROARS and JACK DEMPSEY waves and goes to Creed's corner, then Rocky's.
DEMPSEY: Good luck, kid. He moves off.
ROCKY: ( to Mickey ) Christ, Jack Dempsey.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The Announcer points and the timekeeper RINGS the BELL.
ANNOUNCER: Former Middleweight Champion 'The Bronx Bull' Jake JAKE LA MOTTA raises his fist and gives best wishes to both contenders. Timekeeper RINGS the BELL.
ANOTHER ANGLE: ( continuing ) The man with the big punch Everybody's favorite, 'The Brown Bomber ' Joe Louis!
ANNOUNCER: ( continuing ) The man with the big punch Everybody's favorite, 'The Brown Bomber ' Joe Louis!
ROCKY: They must be friends.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Now, last but certainly not least the former Heavyweight Champion, a son of Philly, Smoking Joe Frazier! FRAZIER rumbles to the center of the ring. The CROWD CHEERS. Apollo puts on a show. He grimaces and gestures like he's going to attack Frazier. His cornermen hold him back. They laugh. Frazier goes to Rocky's corner.
ANNOUNCER: Now, last but certainly not least the former Heavyweight Champion, a son of Philly, Smoking Joe Frazier! FRAZIER rumbles to the center of the ring. The CROWD CHEERS. Apollo puts on a show. He grimaces and gestures like he's going to attack Frazier. His cornermen hold him back. They laugh. Frazier goes to Rocky's corner.
FRAZIER: Save some of him for me.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The Commentators beckon to Frazier as he exits the ring.
COMMENTATOR #1: The former champ looks great Can we get Joe over here here he comes. Joe Frazier stands in front of the Commentators.
COMMENTATOR #1: ( continuing ) Joe, what are your feelings about tonight's fight?
FRAZIER: Well, I think any man who works an' trains hard always gotta chance.
COMMENTATOR #2: You look in great shape, Joe.
FRAZIER: I'm always in shape. Joe laughs and exits. The timekeeper RINGS the BELL.
ANOTHER ANGLE: . Now for the evening's main event In the corner to my right, The Challenger, wearing white trunks At one hundred an' ninety-one pounds, one of Philly's own sons 'The Italian Stallion,' Rocky Balboa! A good CROWD RESPONSE.
ANNOUNCER: . Now for the evening's main event In the corner to my right, The Challenger, wearing white trunks At one hundred an' ninety-one pounds, one of Philly's own sons 'The Italian Stallion,' Rocky Balboa! A good CROWD RESPONSE.
ANOTHER ANGLE: In the far corner, wearing red, white an' blue Weighing in at two hundred and ten pounds Undefeated in forty- six fights the Heavyweight Champion of the World 'The Master of Disaster' Apollo The arena EXPLODES and Creed puts on a display of hand speed.
ANNOUNCER: In the far corner, wearing red, white an' blue Weighing in at two hundred and ten pounds Undefeated in forty- six fights the Heavyweight Champion of the World 'The Master of Disaster' Apollo The arena EXPLODES and Creed puts on a display of hand speed.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The REFEREE motions to both fighters. They step to the center of the ring. As the Referee explains the rules Apollo and Rocky stare hard into each other's eyes. The Referee's voice fades and the fighters' expressions fill the screen. Something soulful and frightening is being The fighters return to their corners.
REFEREE: . Now come out fighting. The fighters return to their corners.
MICKEY: God bless ya, Rock.
ROCKY: Thanks, Mick I'm gonna try.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The BELL RINGS. Creed dances forward and boxes Rocky as though he considers the man an amateur.
ANOTHER ANGLE: COMMENTATOR #1 The Champ stings the slower challenger with jabs at will Balboa blocks eighty percent of the blows with his face Creed doesn't look the best he's ever been but is moving smoothly Creed snaps out a triple combination that backs Balboa into a corner oh, a solid hook by Creed, a master of fist-men.
COMMENTATOR #1: The Champ stings the slower challenger with jabs at will Balboa blocks eighty percent of the blows with his face Creed doesn't look the best he's ever been but is moving smoothly Creed snaps out a triple combination that backs Balboa into a corner oh, a solid hook by Creed, a master of fist-men.
COMMENTATOR #2: The Champion is smiling and toying with the man trying to give the fans their money's worth and make a show of it with the badly out-classes challenger Another left to right combination. I feel sorry for
COMMENTATOR #1: Creed is down!!!
ANOTHER ANGLE: Rocky suddenly explodes with an upswing hook to the jaw. Creed is dropped. The arena EXPLODES. Creed's eyes show disbelief. So do Rocky's. Rocky backs into his corner. Mickey and Mike yell at him.
MICKEY: You can do it! Goddamnit, you got the power! The body, get the body!!! Ya got him goin'!
REFEREE: Six!. Seven!. Eight!. Creed is up. His playful attitude is gone. he is now all business. His lightning jab stings Rocky's face repeatedly.
APOLLO: . Come at me, sucker! Rocky charges and a terrific right crashes against Apollo's chin, followed by an uppercut to the liver that causes Creed to cringe.
ROCKY'S CORNER: How am I doin'?
ROCKY: How am I doin'?
MICKEY: Real good.
ROCKY: See how fast he is damn!
MICKEY: Breathe deep Keep ya chin down!! Use the legs and drive through 'im. Attack Attack Attack!
APOLLO'S CORNER: Apollo does not sit. He stands and clowns with the spectators to prove he is not hurt.
APOLLO: ( to Trainer ) . That boy damn near broke my arm.
TRAINER: Sure He can hit Don't play no more Stick an' move, hear?
APOLLO: I'll carry him 'till the third.
TRAINER: Don't play with this man, he's fightin' hard Let 'em feel some real heat!
ANOTHER ANGLE: The BELL for the second round RINGS. Rocky rushes out fast and furious. Apollo melts out a left hook that raises a goose egg over Rocky's eye. Apollo employs footwork that dazzles Rocky. He has class. He studies Rocky and employs his lightning jab with cutting accuracy. Still Rocky shuffles ahead, bombarding Creed's midsection with hooks.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The round ends with Apollo assaulting Rocky with blinding combinations and delivering a stupendous right cross that flings Rocky into the ropes and shatters his nose. The round ends.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Apollo stands in his corner and jokes with the fans, but he is beginning to show the strain from the body punches.
APOLLO: Man, I rearranged his face with that right The people love what's happenin' tonight.
TRAINER: People nothin', you in a fight, my man, ya best believe what you hear. Knock that boy out soon an' let's go ANOTHER ANGLE Rocky sits as Mickey and Benny try to reduce the swelling around his eyes. The nose is shattered.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Rocky sits as Mickey and Benny try to reduce the swelling around his eyes. The nose is shattered.
MICKEY: Ya nose is broke.
ROCKY: Damn! How's it look?
MICKEY: Can't hardly tell. Don't swallow the blood Go for his ribs. Don't let 'im . The guy's great.
ROCKY: . The guy's great.
MICKEY: Why don't ya tell 'im you're a ANOTHER ANGLE The Commentators are caught up in the action. They speak rapidly into their microphones.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The Commentators are caught up in the action. They speak rapidly into their microphones.
COMMENTATOR #2: If you had asked anyone who knows boxing, they never would've predicted a first round knockdown and the second round punishment to the body of the Champion. Most fighters will tell you, receiving a good body punch is the next worst thing to dying.
COMMENTATOR #1: Round three ready to start and should be interesting to see if Creed can put the challenger away there goes the bell.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Round three. Apollo comes out dancing. He skips and side- steps Rocky's sledgehammer hooks. An expert ring general, Apollo uses the ring fully. Rocky keeps tearing in and Creed meets the bombing attack that cause thick swelling. Near the end of the round Rocky fires a penetrating punch to the heart.
COMMENTATOR #1: Apollo almost sprints out of his corner feints and throws a pair of left-right combinations. Balboa drops beneath a left upper cut and lands a very solid shot on Creed's temple not much movement from Balboa, duck a left, a right, another left and explodes with a right hook to the temple I mean explodes. The Champ backs off.
COMMENTATOR #2: There's no way Apollo expected this kind of hitting power.
COMMENTATOR #1: No way but the brilliant ability of the Champion to master situations like this is one of his most outstanding traits Creed tosses a perfect right hand that rocks Creed on the offensive Balboa takes the punishment and counters with a left flush over the heart. that hurt. The wallop knocks Apollo off balance. The CAMERA GOES TO A STEEP ANGLE SHOT from the floor, VERTICALLY UP Apollo's body. The SCENE GOES INTO SLOW MOTION. Rocky releases a terrifying uppercut that opens a gash under Creed's eye. Creed's face contorts with excruciation.
TRAINER: ( yelling ) Cover your face! Cover up! ( to Assistant ) My man's cut, my man's bleedin' Get ready!
ANOTHER ANGLE: The BELL SOUNDS. Apollo's corner works frantically to close the wound. The ring DOCTOR inspects the cut.
TRAINER: Bad? Talk to me, man!
DOCTOR: Deep, but passable.
APOLLO: ( staring at Rocky ) . That man's takin' his job too serious.
TRAINER: He's movin' to your left don't let him no more dance and stick, hear? Don't play I know what ya feelin', but don't play.
APOLLO: He got lucky.
TRAINER: Luck! You fightin' a crazy man but you got him hurt More ice, now!
ANOTHER ANGLE: Rocky's face is in very bad shape, not cut, but wretchedly swollen around the eyes.
MICKEY: How you holdin' up, kid?
ROCKY: Fine. That guy's great.
MICKEY: Gimme the water! Ya getttin' tagged with his right. I think you should feint left and high hook 'im Benny, check the eyes! Can ya see?
ROCKY: ( standing ) See what?
MIKE: Ya sappin' his strength He's losin' steam.
ROCKY: He ain't losin' nothin'.
MICKEY: Keep on him You're doin' SERIES OF SHOTS In the next ten rounds, Apollo cuts and slashes Rocky to ribbons, but pays dearly. Both his eyes and lips are cut. Welts across his midsection attest to Rocky's body-battering.
ANDY: . The Rock's got real stones.
APOLLO: C'mon Lemme cut yo'! Rocky wades in and Creed employs incredible footwork. He sets himself and cuts loose with a thunderbolt right cross to Rocky's already broken nose. Blood sprays from the wound and red droplets drip from his chin. Rocky takes a merciless beating and is staggered by a torrent of combinations. Rocky's eyes are closed. But Creed cannot drop him. The BELL RINGS.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The Commentators shift in their seats.
COMMENTATOR #1: Without a doubt this is the most punishing brawl I have ever seen The ringside audience is spotted with blood.
COMMENTATOR #2: Not only has he refused to fall, but he has beaten the Champion's body without mercy and the bout has become a vicious slugfest.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Apollo's corner is in turmoil. The Champion is definitely
APOLLO: My side.
TRAINER: ( to Assistant ) Get that doctor.
APOLLO: No doctor!
TRAINER: You're hurtin', man!
APOLLO: No doctor!. I'm feelin' good, bro!
ANOTHER ANGLE: In Rocky's corner, things are frantic. His eyes are swollen
MICKEY: Wanna keep goin'?
ROCKY: Would you keep goin'?
MICKEY: . Yeah.
MIKE: No more, ya wanna lose an eye? No more.
ROCKY: Open my eyes Please, open my eyes! Mickey nods to Benny. He secretly places a small ring knife between his index and middle finger. In one smooth movement he drags the razor over the blood welts and quickly covers the draining wounds with gauze. It is done so quickly no one is ever aware of the operation.
ANOTHER ANGLE: At the rear of the arena Adrian looks transfixed at the ring. She is caught up in the heat of the battle.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The BELL RINGS for round fourteen. Rocky bores in close, but Apollo still has spring in his legs. He seems determined to end it this round. Apollo catches Rocky flush on the jaw. Rocky is staggered. Like a wolf, Apollo cuts loose with pure savagery. Rocky is driven against the ropes and receives a devastating beating from the Champion. Rocky is Rocky sits stunned in the middle of the ring. Everything is a distortion. He looks for familiar faces as though to ask for help. Mickey and Mike scream frantically for him to stay down.
REFEREE: Six Seven Eight Rocky gets to his feet and tenses with renewed energy. He is like a wounded wild animal. The tide suddenly turns. Rocky drops low and catches Apollo with a pair of terrific body punches that seem to drive Apollo's diaphragm up to his throat. A CRACK is HEARD. A glaze of pain covers Apollo's eyes. It is only a supreme effort that keeps the Champion upright. Apollo is badly hurt. He is bent over. Rocky moves towards Apollo. Apollo flicks dread jabs into Rocky's eyes. The Italian wades in with punches that seem to bulge out Apollo's back. Creed takes the punishment like a stoic. Blood is running from Apollo's mouth. In the clinch he leans over Rocky and it drips down the Italian's neck and shoulders. Apollo shields his wound from the ringside judges and continues to fight.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The BELL RINGS. Apollo's men rush out and guide him to his Blood trickles from the corner of Apollo's mouth. The Trainer feels the ribs.
APOLLO: . Ribs broke Blood trickles from the corner of Apollo's mouth. The Trainer feels the ribs.
TRAINER: Yo' bleedin' inside, man Get that doctor.
APOLLO: One more round.
TRAINER: Don't kill yourself, man Let the doctor stop the fight.
APOLLO: . Stop jivin'!
TRAINER: Cover the ribs Look here, elbow down, tight Tight stand straight you're the best, you're the best!
APOLLO: . Thanks.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Rocky no longer resembles himself. His face has completely been beaten to jelly, but his mood is buoyant.
ROCKY: How I look out there, Mick?
MICKEY: ( truly worried ) Great, kid, great. The ring Doctor leans over Rocky and checks the eyes.
DOCTOR: One more round How do you Rocky is approaching the supreme moment of his life. He cannot be bothered with pain or doctors.
ROCKY: Fine Go away, I'm gonna make it I'm gonna make it! Everyone is distraught over Rocky's dangerous condition.
MICKEY: We gotta stop it, kid.
MIKE: Ya gave it ya best shot!
MICKEY: Nobody's gonna say ya didn't give ya all. I can't let ya go out. Rocky stands and eyes them all.
ROCKY: ( impassioned and quietly ) I'll kill ya all. Don't stop ANOTHER ANGLE The BELL RINGS. Apollo moves cautiously out of his corner and circles to Rocky's right.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The BELL RINGS. Apollo moves cautiously out of his corner and circles to Rocky's right.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The Commentators stare unansweringly at the fighters.
COMMENTATOR #1: The fight has slowed down to a near stand-still Creed circles to Rocky's right. The spectrum is nearly silent Neither fighter has made a motion to throw. I've never seen anything like it in the last round of a championship fight. Apollo spits blood on the canvas. It appears he is protecting his right side. His ribs were probably injured at the end of round fourteen.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Apollo feints and Rocky falls for it. The Champion unleashes a lethal blow to the side of the head that jolts Rocky's mouthpiece into the second row. Rocky sags against the ropes in a crucified position. The insane crowd leaps to their feet.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Rocky's bloody teeth snarl at Apollo and he waves him to come ahead and fight toe to toe. Apollo obliges with a weary but effective burst of rights and lefts that have K.O. written on every punch. Rocky counters the assault blow for Mickey looks at the clock. TEN SECONDS TO GO.
ROCKY: Gimme ya best!!!! Mickey looks at the clock. TEN SECONDS TO GO.
ROCKY: ( continuing ) Gimme ya best!!! Blood sprays over the ropes and onto the ringside photographers. They are horrified and wipe away the blood. The fighters stand toe to toe and drag every remaining bit of strength from their souls and beat each other without mercy. They look hypnotized and have entered a dimension far beyond blood and pain.
SIX: ANOTHER ANGLE The BELL RINGS. The arena EXPLODES with thunderous approval.
FIVE: ANOTHER ANGLE The BELL RINGS. The arena EXPLODES with thunderous approval.
FOUR: ANOTHER ANGLE The BELL RINGS. The arena EXPLODES with thunderous approval.
THREE: ANOTHER ANGLE The BELL RINGS. The arena EXPLODES with thunderous approval.
TWO: ANOTHER ANGLE The BELL RINGS. The arena EXPLODES with thunderous approval.
ONE!: ANOTHER ANGLE The BELL RINGS. The arena EXPLODES with thunderous approval.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The BELL RINGS. The arena EXPLODES with thunderous approval.
APOLLO: . Ain't gonna be no rematch.
ROCKY: . Don't want one. Mickey comes over and separates them and leads him back to his corner. Mickey embraces him.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The Announcer enters the ring with a microphone.
ANNOUNCER: Attention, please!! Attention!! Ladies and gentlemen, tonight we have had the rare privilege to have witnessed the greatest exhibitions of stamina and guts ever in the history of The CROWD ROARS.
ANNOUNCER: ( continuing ) Ladies and gentlemen We have a split decision!
ANOTHER ANGLE: Apollo did not expect this and tenses. His corner nervously tries to reassure him. It does no good.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Rocky did not expect this either and looks in confusion at Mickey, but Mickey is frozen with anticipation.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Judge Walker scores it eight- seven Creed. Judge Roseman scores it eight-seven Balboa.
ANNOUNCER: Judge Walker scores it eight- seven Creed. Judge Roseman scores it eight-seven Balboa.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Apollo is rigid. Fear radiates from his eyes. To lose the crown on this night after the fight he fought would kill him. A silence has blanketed the arena.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Judge Conners scores it nine- six Creed. Winner and still Heavyweight Champion of the World, Apollo Creed!
ANNOUNCER: Judge Conners scores it nine- six Creed. Winner and still Heavyweight Champion of the World, Apollo Creed!
ANOTHER ANGLE: Rocky sorely smiles and looks at the waves of CHEERING fans that circle the ring and reach out towards him. Mickey grabs Rocky's hand and raises it. The CROWD ROARS.
MICKEY: I don't care what they say, you're a winner.
ROCKY: Yo, can I have my locker back? Mickey and Rocky look at each other and grin. Mickey hugs Rocky like a son. Mickey raises Rocky's hand again. Rocky turns away from Mickey and pats Benny the cut-man's shoulder. Benny smiles wearily. Rocky stares across the ring at Apollo Creed, who stands victorious, but his face and body are badly distorted. The two men lock stares that reflect admiration.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Apollo climbs out of the ring and the fans crush forward screaming his name and waving red, white and blue banners.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Rocky also climbs out of the ring and waves of frantic well- wishing fans rumble forward. Mickey's eyes show mounting apprehension as the fans become abnormally active.
ANOTHER ANGLE: They shove the police aside and clutch wildly at Creed. Creed's army of bodyguards swing angrily at the crowd but they are soon engulfed by screaming waves of humanity. Apollo is suddenly hoisted into the air and is being carried along by a legion of fans.
ANOTHER ANGLE: On the opposite aisle Rocky is experiencing the same overwhelming adulation by his fans but does not seem to be frightened by it, like Apollo. Mickey tries his best to control things but his voice is drowned out in the growing clamor. The fans shove the guards aside and hoist Rocky to their shoulders.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Rocky's and Apollo's fans are aggressively competing against each other. chanting, 'Creed, Creed, Creed.' Rocky's fans counter by bellowing, 'Rocky, Rocky, Rocky.'
ANOTHER ANGLE: Paulie tries to get to Rocky but is shoved aside and he starts swinging.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Both Rocky and Apollo are completely at the mercy of the crowd. They are being passed overhead and remain helpless as their bodies float up the aisle on the sea of hands. The CHANTING IS DEAFENING.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Fearful that Rocky is in danger, Adrian tries to move forward. Running headlong into the crowd, she angles through the mass to get to Rocky.
ANOTHER ANGLE: She is manhandled and shoved in a multitude of directions, but she keeps her feet. She sees him. In the distance, Rocky floats INTO VIEW and Adrian flattens against the wall and waits for the procession to pass. The procession approaches and she clearly sees Rocky's unbelievably battered but smiling face. He appears to be king of the world. The procession approaches and passes Adrian. She jumps on her toes and waves frantically but is not seen. She screams Rocky's name. Somehow the delicate voice knifes through the racket and reaches Rocky. Rocky frantically looks in all directions and barely manages to see Adrian jumping up and down waving. The crowd is carrying him away. He attempts to lower himself but the crowd won't permit it.
ADRIAN: I love you I love you I love you. The two are swept along into the greatest night anyone can Writers : Sylvester Stallone
THE END: Writers : Sylvester Stallone
