RONIN: an original screenplay by
KILLER: God loves me.
KILLER: ( to his victim ) But I don't think he's too fond of you.
LARRY: ( talking to the air ) You wanna know what football is? It's hitting the other guy dirty and then spitting in his face when he's down. Football is all things American, and American is A-Number-One the absolute fucking best there is. That's what football is. ( he points to the TV ) .And that's not football.
VINCENT: ( to Larry in perfect English ) Football American football is a game for faggots.
DEIRDRE: Can I help you?
SAM: Sam moves towards the bar, and Deirdre returns to her phone
DEIRDRE: I'm here. No, it was nothing.
SAM: Sorry I'm late.
VINCENT: ( a challenge ) What makes you think we're here to meet ( meeting Vincent's gaze ) Who else would you be?
SAM: ( meeting Vincent's gaze ) Who else would you be?
VINCENT: Perhaps the police?
SAM: I know cops and you're no cop.
VINCENT: No thanks.
SAM: No thanks.
SAM: He trusts you to lock up?
VINCENT: Let's just say he knows who I am.
LARRY: Anybody wanna tell me what we're waiting The question isn't what we're waiting for. it's who.
VINCENT: ( lighting his cigarette ) The question isn't what we're waiting for. it's who.
LARRY: And who the fuck is that?
GREGOR: Whoever hired us.
SAM: I got this gig through a contractor. And he most definitely didn't know who was doing the hiring, only that they were paying a lot of money.
SAM: ( continuing his thought ) So none of us knows who's paying the freight, this is just some anonymous job. For all we know, we're working for different people.
GREGOR: Now that is an interesting proposition.
SWEDE: How so?
GREGOR: Because if there's more than one party involved, if we really are working for different people, then perhaps some of us are on different sides. Your orders might be different from mine.
LARRY: What're you talking about, man? I don't What a surprise.
SWEDE: ( quietly, but loud enough to be What a surprise.
LARRY: I got a surprise for you, blondie.
GREGOR: ( sharply, as if he's used to Why don't both of you shut up?
SAM: Knock it off!
SAM: The point remains: we could be working for different people. There's a chance for one of us. Maybe more than one of us has been paid to cross the others. I don't know about you guys, but I like to know who I'm working for. It can help prevent a great deal of. Anybody tries to unpleasant me I'll put two between his eyes one to do the job and the other to make sure it takes. It's good to see you've all got such faith in our little undertaking.
LARRY: ( patting the gun inside his Anybody tries to unpleasant me I'll put two between his eyes one to do the job and the other to make sure it takes. It's good to see you've all got such faith in our little undertaking.
DEIRDRE: It's good to see you've all got such faith in our little undertaking.
LARRY: Who the fuck are you?
DEIRDRE: ( staring at Larry ) The name is Deirdre, and I'm running this Who are you? IRA?
GREGOR: Who are you? IRA?
DEIRDRE: ( with a brittle laugh ) Not likely. Once, yeah, I was but there wasn't an inch of profit in it, and I'm a cash oriented girl, if you take my meaning. I'm a hired gun, same as the rest of you, and that's all any of us needs to know about the other.
DEIRDRE: From here on in you want something you pay cash for it: no credit cards, no bank accounts are in place: ten percent up front, the rest when the job is done. You. What do you do and what should we call you?
GREGOR: These days they they call me Gregor and I'm a tech. I do electronic work, surveillance, computer runs.
SAM: Sam. I'm a weapons guy.
DEIRDRE: You were a soldier, were you?
SAM: Deirdre gives Sam a look and he returns it. Finally, Deirdre turns to Larry.
LARRY: I drive and my name is Larry. Larry from the States.
DEIRDRE: ( she turns to Vincent ) And who are you?
VINCENT: I'm Vincent. And I coordinate.
SAM: ( sharply ) Coordinate what?
VINCENT: Things. This is my country, you know.
DEIRDRE: ( to Vincent ) Coordinate all you want, but make sure whatever you do gets cleared through me. ( Vincent doesn't respond for a Are we in sync on this, Vincent?
VINCENT: Of course.
SWEDE: They call me Swede.
LARRY: Who's they?
SWEDE: And what is it you do?
VINCENT: And what is it you do?
SWEDE: ( with a smile ) I kill.
SAM: ( looking at the target ) You shoot alright.
LARRY: Gets the job done.
SAM: All in the stomach, though. Your man might live.
LARRY: Not for long.
SAM: Long enough to shoot back.
LARRY: Is that right?
SAM: It's been known to happen.
LARRY: ( a challenge ) Why don't you go do better, then.
LARRY: Yeah, well. My way works too.
SAM: My way is better.
GREGOR: It's quite satifactory.
DEIRDRE: Good, because it cost enough. There's cheaper phones by far than that one, man: you better fucking use it.
GREGOR: ( almost caressing the phone ) I intend to. This phone is wired like no other: it's got an encryption chip and instant sat-a-link recognition, it can talk to any computer in any language and make it understand. With my custom hardware and this phone I can trace the target's cell phone signature and follow him anywhere he goes.
DEIRDRE: You sure about this?
GREGOR: I'd stake my reputation.
DEIRDRE: But would you stake your life, that's the In this business, your life and your reputation are more often than not one and the same.
GREGOR: In this business, your life and your reputation are more often than not one and the same.
SWEDE: You should watch what you eat.
LARRY: Who the fuck died and appointed you food I'm just worried about your health, Larry. You could stand to shed a few And you could stand to get a little smarter, ain't that right you dumb blonde Who you calling dumb, dickless?
SWEDE: I'm just worried about your health, Larry. You could stand to shed a few And you could stand to get a little smarter, ain't that right you dumb blonde Who you calling dumb, dickless?
LARRY: ( sensitive about his weight ) And you could stand to get a little smarter, ain't that right you dumb blonde ( sensitive about the dumb Who you calling dumb, dickless?
SWEDE: ( sensitive about the dumb Who you calling dumb, dickless?
DEIRDRE: ( standing above them ) Next one of you fuckers plays this game I'm going to do for you myself. I won't say it again: we don't have time for this shit! There's a clock running on this job, gentlemen, and I mean to be on
VINCENT: Let's go for a ride.
SAM: Where to?
VINCENT: To see a man about a thing.
SAM: I can do that.
LEADER: ( subtitled French ) Who gave you permission to park here?
SAM: ( to Vincent ) What's he saying?
VINCENT: Pretty much what you'd expect.
SAM: ( with a sigh ) That's what I thought.
LEADER: ( in French ) There's a charge for parking on our
VINCENT: ( to Sam ) He says this is their block.
SAM: As in, they own it?
VINCENT: Something like that.
SAM: And I suppose he's saying that we oughta give them something for using it, huh?
VINCENT: I didn't know that you spoke French.
SAM: I don't. But the language he's speaking is universal.
VINCENT: If you think we should.
SAM: ( as if it were an accident ) Oh man, I am sorry about that. ( he sticks his hand out ) Let me give you a hand.
SAM: What'd you say to him?
VINCENT: I asked if we could give him anything
VINCENT: That was a nice move you did on our young friend. Judo?
SAM: Same thing, isn't it?
VINCENT: Same thing, isn't it?
SAM: Not at all. Similar, but not the same.
VINCENT: What's the difference?
SAM: One's a lot more painful than the other.
VINCENT: Help yourself. Since when do you smoke?
SAM: ( lighting up ) I have, I don't know, maybe a cigarette a A cigarette? As in one? ( exasperated, almost to One cigarette a week, who smokes like I do.
VINCENT: A cigarette? As in one? One cigarette a week, who smokes like I do.
SAM: I do.
VINCENT: Christ, I smoke a pack-and-a-half a day, and I tell myself I could be worse. It's just so damned pleasurable.
SAM: ( blowing a smoke ring with It has it's moments. ( stubs out cigarette ) Course, you get cancer and die, that's the down side.
VINCENT: ( with a sigh ) There is that.
SAM: So, Vincent: why bring me along for the ride? Job like this calls for a warm body, somebody who can stand around and look threatening. A tough guy.
VINCENT: Like Larry or Swede.
SAM: Exactly. Why not bring them?
VINCENT: Let's just say I thought the conversational possibilities were limited. Of course, I might have brought Gregor, but he didn't seem like the right candidate for this.
SAM: Watch that one, he's an ex-spook for sure, maybe Stasi, maybe KGB. He's smart, Gregor is.
VINCENT: So is the woman.
SAM: Deirdre? Smart, yeah, and seriously goddamned dangerous.
VINCENT: I wonder if she truly left the IRA.
SAM: I've wondered that myself. None of this answers my question, though. Why bring me?
VINCENT: I wanted to see who you were.
SAM: Who am I?
VINCENT: You were once some kind of special forces. Airborne Ranger, maybe a Navy SEAL. After that you rode shotgun for the CIA in some place like El Salvador or Afghanistan, a real mercenary. Only now now you're like the rest of us, it's a very competitive market since the end of the cold war. There's a lot of hired guns out here, and not nearly enough work to go around.
SAM: That's right: there's not hardly enough work these days, nothing that pays the big money, anyhow. Then along comes this job, paying so much goddamned money I couldn't afford not to take it. Somebody's paying through the nose for this.
VINCENT: They certainly are. Whatever it is we're going to steal, it must be quite Whatever it is it must be goddamned
SAM: Whatever it is it must be goddamned
VINCENT: Lovely, isn't it?
SAM: They'd have to keep something like this under lock and key in New York, and it would still get fucked up.
FRANCOIS: That's good right where you are, Vincent.
VINCENT: Do you have it?
FRANCOIS: Not so fast. Who's that?
VINCENT: He's company.
FRANCOIS: ( as if he recognizes Sam ) Bad company.
VINCENT: What do you mean?
FRANCOIS: He's a cop, Vincent, he's French and he's a cop and you better shoot him in the fucking head right now!
SAM: ( to Vincent ) What's going on?
VINCENT: I just wanted to see something.
SAM: ( that edge creeping into his See what?
FRANCOIS: He wanted to see how you reacted when I said that you were a cop.
SAM: ( he can't believe this ) You told him I was a cop?
FRANCOIS: He asked me to say it.
SAM: ( looking at Vincent, truly He asked you to?
VINCENT: I needed to know.
SAM: You need to know a lot of shit, Vincent.
FRANCOIS: ( to Vincent, in subtitled Are you ready?
VINCENT: ( taking out an envelope ) Here's yours.
FRANCOIS: There's been a slight problem.
VINCENT: ( immediately tensing ) What's that?
FRANCOIS: ( still in subtitled French ) If you say a word in English, Vincent, my friend with the high powered sporting rifle will shoot you in the throat. Sorry to screw you over like this, but the information you want might get me killed if I give it to you, and that's a price I'm not willing to pay.
VINCENT: ( in French ) I take it you still want the money.
FRANCOIS: ( in English, with a grin ) Of course.
SUBTITLED FRENCH: Where's my information?
VINCENT: Where's my information?
FRANCOIS: ( with a grim smile, pointing to In here.
VINCENT: Then you better find it in your heart to tell me, Francois, because while your death is inevitable, it still isn't decided how painful it's going to be.
SAM: Now would be a good time to get the fuck out of here.
SAM: You know, what you pulled back there, that was bullshit.
VINCENT: I needed to see if you were a cop. I'm a popular man with the police, Sam, and whenever they try to catch me they always do it with an inside guy some man on some job who seems more trustworthy than all the others put together. And that's the guy you have to watch out for. I hate cops.
SAM: ( insulted that Vincent would Well I ain't a cop.
VINCENT: How did you know?
SAM: Know what?
VINCENT: That there was a gun pointed at me.
SAM: I saw you look off when Francois nodded his head. I figured he wasn't pointing out a particularly rare shrub, and the rest was easy.
VINCENT: But how did you know I would have the presence of mind to pull my weapon when I did?
SAM: ( as if it's obvious ) Because that's what I would have done.
VINCENT: You saved my life back there in the park. I know this doesn't begin to make it right between us.
SAM: What I did back in the park I did because we're working together we're on the same team. This is business this is work. We did it together, we share the spoils, even
VINCENT: I owe you a heavy debt.
SAM: Whatever you say.
VINCENT: We kept it.
DEIRDRE: ( a little annoyed ) Is that right?
SAM: Hazard pay.
DEIRDRE: ( with an exhalation of disgust ) The two of you were supposed to go to a simple meet and come back with a simple piece of information, and instead you went to fucking war.
SAM: We weren't real thrilled about it
LARRY: So what's the deal?
DEIRDRE: ( barely stopping, very The deal? The deal is we leave for Nice at first light.
LARRY: What'd you guys do?
DEIRDRE: I feel as if I've wandered onto the set of Enter The Dragon. Could you teach me to do that?
SAM: I didn't think to see you again tonight. You were pretty pissed.
DEIRDRE: I still am.
SAM: Is that right?
DEIRDRE: That's right.
SAM: Part of me says I should just look at this as a perk. You know, a bonus. But then I remember you're you Deirdre who used to belong to the IRA and it occurs to me that deceit and subterfuge come very naturally to you.
DEIRDRE: ( kissing him very lightly ) Nobody's saying they don't.
SAM: ( returning the kiss, just as And when I consider that, I have to wonder if you don't have some ulterior motive for being here, with me, right I probably do. ( pulling him close ) But for the time being, I'm willing to forget about it.
DEIRDRE: I probably do. But for the time being, I'm willing to forget about it.
GREGOR: I would imagine that the great satisfaction in all of this will be killing the American.
SWEDE: ( we know this isn't true ) I hadn't thought about it. Understand me, Gregor I take no pleasure in killing. It doesn't bother me one bit, but I don't get off on it.
GREGOR: A means to an end, is that it?
SWEDE: That's it.
GREGOR: ( he rises to leave ) Then I guess we're set.
SWEDE: There is one other thing.
GREGOR: What's that? What are you doing?
GREGOR: What are you doing?
SWEDE: Don't cross me.
GREGOR: Nobody's going to do that!
SWEDE: ( truly frightened ) I need you, Swede, I can't do this without you!
GREGOR: ( truly frightened ) I need you, Swede, I can't do this without you!
SWEDE: ( beat, then he puts his gun I just wanted to make sure you knew who you were dealing with.
GREGOR: I do, I do.
SWEDE: ( this is almost to himself ) Just remember it, then.
DEIRDRE: Look, Sam, don't take it the wrong way when I tell you we won't be doing this You don't have to explain yourself to me, I know I don't have to, Sam, it's just that, for once, I want to. when I was a - Patriot, it was a given I'd sleep with any man it was deemed necessary for me to sleep with. You know: any man who needed setting up. Sometimes so we might blackmail him, sometimes so he could be Sometimes so I could kill him myself. IRA isn't exactly an enlightened feminist organization, Sam. To most of the men I with I was always the girl. "Send the girl to do it." "Tell The girl to take care of it." "Have the girl fuck him." But I look at you and I get this feeling you take me for what I am: no more, no You're a hired gun, Deirdre just like Exactly. And last night I wanted to be with someone who was just like me.
SAM: You don't have to explain yourself to me, I know I don't have to, Sam, it's just that, for once, I want to. when I was a - Patriot, it was a given I'd sleep with any man it was deemed necessary for me to sleep with. You know: any man who needed setting up. Sometimes so we might blackmail him, sometimes so he could be Sometimes so I could kill him myself. IRA isn't exactly an enlightened feminist organization, Sam. To most of the men I with I was always the girl. "Send the girl to do it." "Tell The girl to take care of it." "Have the girl fuck him." But I look at you and I get this feeling you take me for what I am: no more, no You're a hired gun, Deirdre just like Exactly. And last night I wanted to be with someone who was just like me.
DEIRDRE: ( almost surprised by this ) I know I don't have to, Sam, it's just that, for once, I want to. when I was a - ( almost with a sneer ) Patriot, it was a given I'd sleep with any man it was deemed necessary for me to sleep with. You know: any man who needed setting up. Sometimes so we might blackmail him, sometimes so he could be ( a quick beat ) Sometimes so I could kill him myself. IRA isn't exactly an enlightened feminist organization, Sam. To most of the men I with I was always the girl. "Send the girl to do it." "Tell The girl to take care of it." "Have the girl fuck him." ( a quick beat ) But I look at you and I get this feeling you take me for what I am: no more, no You're a hired gun, Deirdre just like Exactly. And last night I wanted to be with someone who was just like me.
SAM: You're a hired gun, Deirdre just like Exactly. And last night I wanted to be with someone who was just like me.
DEIRDRE: Exactly. And last night I wanted to be with someone who was just like me.
DEIRDRE: I better be getting that.
SAM: Duty calls?
DEIRDRE: ( with a trace of a sigh ) Just business.
DEIRDRE: Now then, let's run through it one more time, shall we? What's your job?
GREGOR: I use my cell phone to get computer access to the telecommunications satellite used by our target. I trace his cell phone signature and use it to pin point his location as he moves through Nice, relaying that information to you.
DEIRDRE: ( to Larry ) ( a sigh, he's done this too You call me with the target's route, I follow along until we've reached the attack point and then I run his squag ass off the road.
LARRY: ( a sigh, he's done this too You call me with the target's route, I follow along until we've reached the attack point and then I run his squag ass off the road.
DEIRDRE: ( to Swede ) Which leads us to.
SWEDE: I ride with fat-boy.
LARRY: ( under his breath ) Eat shit and die slowly.
SWEDE: After we stop the target car I get out and use the heavy artillery to kill the driver and his bodyguard.
LARRY: I blast the lead car into oblivion.
VINCENT: ( picking up ) While Sam and I take out the back two ( picking it up ) .Leaving me to step in, drop the target in the back seat, and get the package.
DEIRDRE: ( picking it up ) .Leaving me to step in, drop the target in the back seat, and get the package.
SWEDE: ( picking it up ) .Leaving me to step in, drop the target in the back seat, and get the package.
DEIRDRE: ( with a quick look at Sam ) ( returning her look ) .While I back him up, making sure to get the package if something goes wrong and somebody takes Swede down.
SAM: ( returning her look ) .While I back him up, making sure to get the package if something goes wrong and somebody takes Swede down.
SWEDE: Nobody's taking me anywhere.
DEIRDRE: And then.
LARRY: Then Swede and I split with the package and meet you back at the rendezvous.
DEIRDRE: And then.
VINCENT: And then Sam, you and I clean up whatever's left to be cleaned.
DEIRDRE: Very good. Now all we have to do is live long enough to get paid.
DEIRDRE: Alright, Gregor, I'm.
GREGOR: ( finishing her sentence ) Ready when you are.
LARRY: Where is this broad?
SWEDE: You should learn a little patience.
LARRY: Is that right?
SWEDE: It's consider a virtue in some corners of the world.
LARRY: Not in mine.
DEIRDRE: You want to take a left, then, so that you're going west.
THE TARGET: Fuck you!
SWEDE: Not today.
SWEDE: I don't particularly like killing, tubby, but I want you to know that this one I'm going to enjoy.
LARRY: ( sees something over Swede's I don't think so.
LARRY: ( in shock ) He just.I don't believe that son-of-
LARRY: ( still having trouble believing We've been crossed.
SAM: ( answering Larry's question ) It's a cocktail. Mostly demerol, cut with a little crank because we might need you awake in the real near future.
LARRY: Fine with fucking me, we got work to do. I don't care what it takes, we are getting our property back and putting it into the hands of the people who are gonna pay us a great deal of money when we do. I don't know about the rest of you guys, but I'm not the kind of guy to just sit back and take it in the ass. I don't mean that in, like, a literal Of course.
DEIRDRE: Of course.
VINCENT: Finding this package is a thing easier said than done. We don't even know what it is. What did we steal?
DEIRDRE: ( suddenly defensive ) I don't know.
VINCENT: When this whole thing started you made it clear: you're running the show. And I don't believe you'd be running this show if you didn't know what was going on.
DEIRDRE: Well I don't!
VINCENT: And I don't believe you.
DEIRDRE: ( suddenly feral ) You go shoot me if you want, Vincent, but you'll be dead before I hit the ground.
VINCENT: ( matching her intensity ) I don't want you dead, woman, I want the the truth!
SAM: ( continuing without missing a .put your guns down and chill out.
SAM: Like it or now, we're on the same side: we're here and the package isn't. You're not the boss any more, you're our partner. So tell us what you know, so we can figure a way out of this mess.
SAM: Now, what did we steal?
DEIRDRE: ( she hates to admit this ) I don't know. ( defensively, off Vincent's Well I don't! It's a goddamned mystery to me just like it is to you. ( quick beat, then reluctantly But I do know who we're working for. My people, and the Russian mob.
LARRY: Your people? Who the fuck is your Who do you think, Larry? The IRA.
VINCENT: Who do you think, Larry? The IRA.
DEIRDRE: And you believed me? But it wasn't my people who did it.
LARRY: How do we know that?
SAM: Because if they had she'd be gone along with the package, instead of sitting here with us.
DEIRDRE: Exactly. Gregor, he was the Russian's man. It was my people came up with the idea for this run, but the Russians who had the capital to finance it. Gregor, he was their insurance, and I was ours. Everybody else was supposed to be neutral. Gregor must've got to Swede.
LARRY: I never did trust that blonde fuck.
DEIRDRE: That's why you were riding with him.
VINCENT: The question still remains: what do we do Gregor's cell phone.
SAM: ( he figures something out ) Gregor's cell phone.
LARRY: ( to himself ) What are you gonna do, call him up and ask him to give us back our shit?
SAM: ( ignoring Larry, to Deirdre ) Did he bring that with him?
DEIRDRE: I bought it for him all the stuff he was using, it was in his contract. Cost a nice penny, too, especially that goddamned phone: Gregor had expensive Check this out. Gregor's a spook, or he was one until recently. When he was a spy he lived the life you know, a prince in some Eastern Bloc country where nobody had shit and Gregor had everything. Then the wall goes down. No more Cold War. And Gregor is out of a job. No apartment, no special stores with Western food and video tapes. I would bet dollars against shit that Gregor liked that phone and he doesn't want to give it up. And I wouldn't be surprised if he's arrogant enough to think.
SAM: Check this out. Gregor's a spook, or he was one until recently. When he was a spy he lived the life you know, a prince in some Eastern Bloc country where nobody had shit and Gregor had everything. Then the wall goes down. No more Cold War. And Gregor is out of a job. No apartment, no special stores with Western food and video tapes. I would bet dollars against shit that Gregor liked that phone and he doesn't want to give it up. And I wouldn't be surprised if he's arrogant enough to think.
DEIRDRE: ( finishing his sentence ) That we're too stupid to trace his calls.
GREGOR: ( breaking the silence ) It's a beautiful street, no?
DAPPER GENT: ( he can't wait any longer ) Do you have it?
GREGOR: Always in a rush, you are. All these years I've known you, you could never wait for anything.
DAPPER GENT: This is important.
GREGOR: Do you really think so?
DAPPER GENT: You know it is.
GREGOR: The Dapper Gent loweres his hand, leaving his gun in his coat. Gregor pulls the van to a curb.
GREGOR: Look over there.
DAPPER GENT: What are you doing, have you lost your
DAPPER GENT: Why did you do that?
GREGOR: To make a point. I don't know her, and I was ready to splatter her brains all over the sidewalk. I don't particularly like you, so imagine what I'll do if you try anything.
DAPPER GENT: ( squirming ) Enough! We've been driving for an hour, where is my package?
GREGOR: It's under your seat.
DAPPER GENT: ( incredulous ) As my American friend Larry would say: are you fucking deaf? It's under your
GREGOR: As my American friend Larry would say: are you fucking deaf? It's under your
DAPPER GENT: I can't believe you'd do that, Gregor. I thought I trained you better than that.
DAPPER GENT: I've never particularly liked you either,
GREGOR: ( in English ) It's done.
GREGOR: ( with a low chuckle ) Much to your disappointment, no doubt.
GREGOR: ( suddenly cold, furious ) I'm in the middle of saving you people a great deal of money the least you could do is have the decency to pay me!
GREGOR: What I do is none of your concern. What you should do is wait for my next phone call. I'm going to find a place where I can tilt the field in my favor. When I'm ready, I'll call you and tell you what I want you to do.
SAM: What's going on?
VINCENT: You weren't around when I woke up, I thought maybe something had happened. This has been one very fucked up job, Sam, and I'm not taking any more chances on anybody. Including you. I came up here to sneak a smoke.
SAM: I came up here to sneak a smoke.
VINCENT: You were smoking?
SAM: I hope you don't mind I took your pack. It was on the table.
VINCENT: ( very sincere, offering the Please, help yourself. Smoke as many you'd like.
SAM: ( a shrug of the shoulders ) I borrowed that, too.
VINCENT: ( puffing contentedly ) Of course.whenever you feel like it just help yourself.
SAM: I have a feeling I'm about to start buying my own.
SAM: It was at that.
VINCENT: A lot of people died.
SAM: I've seen a lot of people die before.
VINCENT: I haven't. Not like that. How do you get used to it?
SAM: You don't. You just learn to live with I won't lie there have been times when I had to do it, times when the only way to get out alive was to see that the other man didn't.
VINCENT: I won't lie there have been times when I had to do it, times when the only way to get out alive was to see that the other man didn't.
SAM: We live in a singular world, my friend.
VINCENT: I never really thought I was part of the world you move in, Sam, to tell you the I'm a hood, a thief. Big time in a small time king of way. To the local police I'm a prize, to the local hoods I'm a legend. But to a guy like you I'm just another two bit hired gun.
SAM: You might be a hired gun, Vincent, but I got a feeling you cost more than two
DEIRDRE: Christ, I was starting to think that the two of you had thrown it in and walked There's someone on the phone downstairs asking for you, and my somewhat limited French leads me to believe that he might have something to tell us about Gregor.
LARRY: ( continuing ) That I could be dead and I'd drive better than you.
DEIRDRE: ( very curt ) Oh shut up.
VINCENT: He's going north. That's Aix en Provence, where he used the
SAM: ( making up his mind ) He's going back.
VINCENT: Not necessarily. He could go off road at any number of places. He might not even be in the country anymore.
SAM: It's Paris. The route's too indirect for anything else. A guy like Gregor, he doesn't waste time on this road unless he has to be on it in the first place. Otherwise, he'd be out of the country by now. He's going to Paris. Now I just hope we can find him before he gets there.
DEIRDRE: If somebody else doesn't find him first.
DAD: Opera? This is an opera festival?
MOM: I told you that, Henry.
DAD: I thought you meant Phantom of the Opera. You know, Andrew Lloyd Weber, Cats, that kind of thing.
LARRY: ( mouth full ) This.this is incredible. Is the rest of Europe like this?
DEIRDRE: ( with a laugh ) Some places, not all. Italy, for instance, they're serious about their food. But try bloody Britain, anywhere in the U.K., you don't get much fancier than a deep-fried bar egg. Food's not our thing, you see.
LARRY: What is?
DEIRDRE: ( everybody knows this ) Best beer in the world known to man or ( with a snort ) Best beer in the world? Budweiser for me, thanks.
LARRY: ( with a snort ) Best beer in the world? Budweiser for me, thanks.
DEIRDRE: ( with unconcealed scorn ) Budweiser? You talk to me of beer and you've the unbridled gall to mention Budweiser in the same sentence? That's not beer! Christ, it's not even a poor excuse for rabbit piss.
LARRY: Oh yeah? Whatta you drink, then?
DEIRDRE: I drink what every civilized man, woman and child in the world drinks: Guinness.
VINCENT: .but we've got to get back on the road.
VINCENT: We've got him.
LARRY: I'm driving.
VINCENT: I know those men.
SAM: Whatever you hear, whatever happens, when your partners come back out, you make sure you're here with the motor running.
GREGOR: Edvard, is that you? Yes, Gregor, they sent me.
EDVARD: Yes, Gregor, they sent me.
GREGOR: I'm touched, really, that they'd send someone of your caliber. It's nice to know that they didn't make the mistake of underestimating me twice.
EDVARD: That was a mistake, trying to kill you. Mikhi did it without consulting me, I'd have never allowed it.
GREGOR: I'm sure. But I'm sorry to say that it's too late for trust: we have a serious We'll double your price.
EDVARD: We'll double your price.
GREGOR: ( now that's interesting ) Really? Do you have the money with you?
EDVARD: Do you have the material?
GREGOR: You first, Edvard.
EDVARD: Perhaps we could both go at the same I think not. After you.
GREGOR: ( a short laugh ) I think not. ( with a flourish ) After you.
SAM: You might have been one mean technical spook, Gregor, but you wouldn't have lasted a week in the field.
EDVARD: Gregor, are you alright?
DEIDRE: ( continuing ) .but I think you're in a bit of
SAM: Don't talk to me unless you tell me what I want to hear, understand?!? You have no choice in this, don't think about winning, think about staying alive. I want the item, and if you don't give it to me, I'm gonna kill you.
GREGOR: ( a panicky hiss ) I don't have it with me.
SAM: I swear.
GREGOR: I swear.
SAM: Then where is it?
GREGOR: I sent it to myself in Paris.
SAM: Sent it where?
GREGOR: A post office box.
EDVARD: ( stunned, announcing to the Do you know who he is? He's with Interpol, the Internation Police. He's a cop.
VINCENT: You're a cop.you're a fucking cop.I should kill you.
SAM: But you can't.
SEAMUS: ( to Gregor, with an Irish If you want to live you'll do exactly as I tell you.
EDVARD: Where do I know you from?
VINCENT: Of course.I remember. I quite liked you, I'm sorry to have to do this.
EDVARD: Of course.I remember. I quite liked you, I'm sorry to have to do this.
DEIRDRE: Cold cocking the poor son-of-a-bitch would have sufficed, Seamus, don't you
VINCENT: That double-crossing bitch.
VINCENT: That makes twice now you've saved my I didn't save your life back there. Risked it, maybe but I didn't save You see it your way, I'll see it mine. You need a doctor.
SAM: I didn't save your life back there. Risked it, maybe but I didn't save You see it your way, I'll see it mine. You need a doctor.
VINCENT: You see it your way, I'll see it mine. You need a doctor.
SAM: ( hopeful ) You know one around here? Somebody you No.I thought I'd take you to the ( sharply ) No hospitals. I'll fix this myself if I have to.
VINCENT: No.I thought I'd take you to the No hospitals. I'll fix this myself if I have to.
SAM: ( sharply ) No hospitals. I'll fix this myself if I have to.
VINCENT: ( he can't believe this ) Fix it yourself? ( a thought comes to him ) Why are we even doing this? There's no need to run, Christ. ( he can't disguise his disgust ) You're a cop.
SAM: Not exactly.
VINCENT: You're with Interpol you're a cop.
SAM: If I was a cop, a real cop, I'd have busted you a long time ago. This isn't about you, it's about the job I have to And what job is that?
VINCENT: And what job is that?
SAM: My job, Vincent, a job you don't need to know about. I can't go to the local cops they'd never be able to get close enough at this point. It's me or nobody, and I've been on this job too goddamned long not to finish.
VINCENT: It looks to me like we're all that's left of our group.
SAM: We? There is no we in my world now, Vincent, just me.
VINCENT: I'm going with you.
SAM: This doesn't involve you, don't you understand? I can't even guarantee you any money out of all this.
VINCENT: It isn't about money for me, not You don't have to do this.
SAM: You don't have to do this.
VINCENT: ( with great finality ) Yes I do.
DEIRDRE: When we're done with this, I want to do for that one myself.
SEAMUS: Now there's the Deirdre I know.
DEIRDRE: And what's that supposed to mean, Seamus It means I was worried that all the time you spent away from the fold might have affected you. You've been living the life of the hired gun the well paid hired gun, I might note. There's no glory to it, but there are those that like it.
SEAMUS: It means I was worried that all the time you spent away from the fold might have affected you. You've been living the life of the hired gun the well paid hired gun, I might note. There's no glory to it, but there are those that like it.
DEIRDRE: So you thought that maybe I'd grown too attached to this charade I've been playing, is that it?
SEAMUS: It's been known to happen.
DEIRDRE: Not to me, you know that.
SEAMUS: ( goading her ) I thought I did.
DEIRDRE: I guess you don't know me, then, if you think I won't kill you for an insult like
SEAMUS: Just testing, lass. Forgive me, but I had to do it.
DEIRDRE: Remember what we agreed on, Seamus: when we get home, I don't play "the girl"
VINCENT: Hello, Jean-Pierre.
SAM: Well, Vincent's American friend, shall we see what we can do for you?
VINCENT: ( to Sam ) It's right there, beneath the surface. I can just make it out.
SAM: ( sharply ) No booze.Pain's in the mind, and the mind I can control. ( quick beat ) Alright, let's do it.
SAM: Douse the wound with alcohol.
SAM: ( to Jean-Pierre ) Take that sponge and wipe away as much of the blood as you can, keep it clean so I can see.
SAM: ( to Vincent ) Take the clamp.
SAM: Peel back the skin and attach the clamp. Alright, it's done.
VINCENT: Alright, it's done.
SAM: You see the bullet?
VINCENT: Good. Now take the forceps, and remember, Vincent, what we're doing here is routine. I've done stuff like this at least twenty times in the field. There are no vital organs where you're working, no major muscles or arteries you can't kill me. Just make sure you've got the bullet before you try to pull it out.
SAM: Good. Now take the forceps, and remember, Vincent, what we're doing here is routine. I've done stuff like this at least twenty times in the field. There are no vital organs where you're working, no major muscles or arteries you can't kill me. Just make sure you've got the bullet before you try to pull it out.
VINCENT: ( holding the bullet aloft ) A souvenir.
SAM: ( to Vincent ) You think you can stitch me up on you Don't worry, we'll take care of it.
SAM: Then if you don't mind. I'm gonna pass out.
VINCENT: Yes, Sam's tough alright.
VINCENT: Of course. Don't you?
VINCENT: ( beat, trying to find a way to Not exactly.
VINCENT: How did you know?
SAM: ( responding to the question ) Some, thanks. Enough to move on, for ( pointing at Sam's wounded You should really let a doctor look at But first you have something to take care Something important? A thing that cannot It gets done now or not at all. Another couple of days and the parties concerned are gone where I can't get them.
SAM: But first you have something to take care Something important? A thing that cannot It gets done now or not at all. Another couple of days and the parties concerned are gone where I can't get them.
SAM: Something important? A thing that cannot It gets done now or not at all. Another couple of days and the parties concerned are gone where I can't get them.
SAM: It gets done now or not at all. Another couple of days and the parties concerned are gone where I can't get them.
SAM: Vincent told you that I'm a cop?
SAM: So this is what, a test?
SAM: If I was healthy, I could take that away from you.
SAM: So what is it you want to know?
SAM: Perhaps forged is a better word. Like steel. Like a sword. You're a modern Samurai. I've spent my life around extraordinary men men like Vincent. But I've never seen anyone like you. I'm afraid Vincent will die if he goes with you.
SAM: Vincent's life is his own burden; he'll have to carry it for himself. And I'm not any kind of Samurai.
SAM: A Samurai has honor, a Samurai live by the code of Bushido, the way of the warrior. I'm just a killer for hire. The world isn't about honor, anymore. It's about survival.
DEIRDRE: Where's the case?
GREGOR: ( nervous ) There's a problem.
SEAMUS: ( jumping all over him ) Problem my ass! I think you're lying to me, and if you are you're a dead man!
DEIRDRE: Would somebody tell me what fucking well happened in there?
SEAMUS: ( disgusted ) ( eager to explain ) The package didn't come. I'm sure it will tomorrow.
GREGOR: ( eager to explain ) The package didn't come. I'm sure it will tomorrow.
SEAMUS: ( he's almost foaming at the If you're lying to me you poor excuse for a human being, I'm gonna blow your brains all over this car.
GREGOR: ( beyond desperate ) I swear, it has to come here! It has
SEAMUS: Ease up, man.I'm just checking to make sure you're on the level.
SEAMUS: And it seems to me I saw a sign in there that says they got a late afternoon delivery. Why don't we come back later today and do this all over again, huh?
TONY: Hey, man, they're both great movies. One is more of a character study, the other is more of a straight action thing, but they're great movies, and he's an amazing fucking filmmaker.
TONY: Excuse me.
TONY: ( to Vincent ) My man, how you doing?
VINCENT: I'm alright. And you?
TONY: Doing well. This is?
VINCENT: A friend. I was telling him about how you always have the latest tapes.
TONY: Why don't we step into my office.
TONY: So what can I do for you?
VINCENT: I was wondering if you had any movies that were particularly new.
TONY: Matter of face there's this flick I've been hearing about. I haven't seen it, but from what I hear it's pretty cool.
SAM: What's the story?
TONY: It's an international thing. Several different peoples involved, criminals from all over the world, experts brought together to do a job. But maybe the most interesting thing about it is that preeminent in the plot we find the Russian Mob and the IRA in bed together. An unlikely group of partners.
VINCENT: Do you have the tape?
TONY: I might know where you could get a copy. Let me do some business with my boy here, and I'll meet you across the street in five. I gotta make homes here feel like he's getting a good deal while I give him the pleasure of overpaying me for a couple of second generation pirates.
TONY: ( to Vincent and Sam ) Let me do some business with my boy here, and I'll meet you across the street in five. I gotta make homes here feel like he's getting a good deal while I give him the pleasure of overpaying me for a couple of second generation pirates.
TONY: ( his mouth full ) What I've heard so far, it's all a lot of talk. I wasn't so sure what to make of it at first, cause, like I said, the Irish and the Russians are an unlikely You said you might know where we can get a copy of this tape?
VINCENT: You said you might know where we can get a copy of this tape?
TONY: All depends on whether you want the Russian or the Gaelic language version.
SAM: ( instantly ) You sure?
TONY: You sure?
SAM: I'm sure.
VINCENT: ( to Tony ) Can you get it?
TONY: The Russian would be easier.
SAM: Why's that?
TONY: Cause the Russian production company would be easier to find.
SAM: It's the Irish tape we want.
TONY: ( with a sigh ) Gonna be tough.
TONY: Last I heard there was a film rep for the Irish players staying at this address, name of Seamus Reilly.
SAM: ( repeating it, he knows this Seamus Reilly.
VINCENT: ( to Sam ) You know him?
SAM: I know of him.
TONY: Seamus Reilly, boy's a serious Irish Auteur a real firebrand. Thinks his more moderate filmmaking brethren have turned to making movies for peace-loving pussies, if you see what I'm saying.
VINCENT: I get the picture.
VINCENT: Tony and I have to talk some business, I gotta try and overcharge him, he has to moan about the price, we settle somewhere in the middle.
TONY: I gotta try and overcharge him, he has to moan about the price, we settle somewhere in the middle.
VINCENT: It's a matter of respect. Why don't you wait outside, this won't take long.
SAM: The Irish representative?
VINCENT: Vincent gives Sam another piece of paper.
SAM: What's this?
VINCENT: The address of the Russian production company. Just in case we need to find Thorough man.
SAM: Thorough man.
SAM: You sure your friend got the right place?
VINCENT: If Tony says this is it, then it's it.
VINCENT: Tell me, Sam: why do you do this?
SAM: Do what?
VINCENT: Continue when it would be so much easier to give it up.
SAM: It's my job.
VINCENT: Then quit. You don't work for Interpol, Sam.
SAM: Sure I do. You heard him, you heard the guy that's what he said, what Edvard It's a cover, then. A cover within a cover, a feint within a feint. You work for the CIA, it's the only possible answer.
VINCENT: It's a cover, then. A cover within a cover, a feint within a feint. You work for the CIA, it's the only possible answer.
SAM: I'm a field agent last of an already extinct breed. I do dark ops.
VINCENT: Dark ops?
SAM: Dark operations. Wet work. Kidnaping. Very ugly.
VINCENT: Very ugly.
SAM: It is at that.
VINCENT: Not very zen of you, huh? Not so much the modern Samurai after all.
SAM: I never made that claim.
VINCENT: I know. Jean-Pierre did.
SAM: You were behind the door?
VINCENT: I was waiting to see what would happen. I didn't want to kill him if I didn't have to.
SAM: You would have done that?
VINCENT: I would have tried not to. But yes, if it would have kept him from shooting you, I would have.
SAM: ( almost to himself ) How could you have done that?
VINCENT: Because I owe you. Look at that.
SAM: ( figuring it out ) They don't have the package.
VINCENT: You think?
SAM: You said it yourself: Gregor's not dead. If they had the package, they'd have killed him. They're going to get it.
SAM: Don't do it.
DEIRDRE: Well, if it isn't Mr. Interpol himself. I can't believe I misjudged you like I Oh please..you're on some sort of holy I'm a patriate.
SAM: Oh please..you're on some sort of holy I'm a patriate.
DEIRDRE: I'm a patriate.
SAM: Don't even think that I'm buying that.
DEIRDRE: Where do you get off saying word one? All the time pretending to be one of us, it's the same thing we were doing, Seamus and myself. And here you are so high and mighty, like you're so different from the rest of us.
SAM: I didn't say I was.
DEIRDRE: ( she sees something ) Bloody fucking hell.
SAM: Don't even think it.
SAM: I'd kill you before you had it halfway
VINCENT: What the fuck happened?
SAM: I don't know.
VINCENT: You don't know? Bullshit, you had her, there was no way out.
SEAMUS: What in bloody hell is going on?
DEIRDRE: They're part of the team. One of them's the guy I told you about.
SEAMUS: From Interpol?
DEIRDRE: That's him.
VINCENT: Why didn't you kill her?
SEAMUS: Why didn't you kill him?
VINCENT: ( figuring it out ) You slept with her!
SEAMUS: How is it these fellahs managed to get the drop on us?
DEIRDRE: I told you: they're good.
VINCENT: ( slamming the dashboard in You slept with her!
SEAMUS: ( lecturing Deridre ) You should have kill him when you had the chance. But no.
VINCENT: You put everything on the line because You slept with the fucker!!
SEAMUS: ( as if finishing Vincent's You slept with the fucker!!
VINCENT: Left left left!!!
SEAMUS: ( waving the package ) This better be the real thing or you're a dead man!
GREGOR: It is, I'm telling you it is!!
SEAMUS: You've told me a lot of things, boyo.
SEAMUS: Lose them!
DEIRDRE: You lose them!
SEAMUS: To the right!!!
SAM: Give me a cigarette.
VINCENT: Right now?
SAM: Gimme a goddamn cigarette!!!!
VINCENT: ( fumbling with a cigarette ) Why are you driving? ( rapid fire ) You're not French, you don't live here, you don't know these roads. Why are you
SEAMUS: About time!
DEIRDRE: ( glancing in her mirror ) Not yet.
SEAMUS: ( practically tearing his hair ) Good Christ! Can't you lose these ( through clenched teeth ) They're good!
DEIRDRE: ( through clenched teeth ) They're good!
SAM: Nice place.
VINCENT: ( by way of explaining ) I'm not here very much.
SAM: Business keeps you on the road?
VINCENT: Something like that.
SAM: I know I don't need to say this to you, but I need to say it to you. This is my job, I have to do it.
VINCENT: So I do it.
SAM: No you don't, and you know it.
VINCENT: If our positions were reversed, would you leave me?
SAM: ( he says this too quickly ) In a minute.
VINCENT: I think not.
VINCENT: ( considering the weapons ) Do we need anything else?
SAM: Yeah. We need out fucking heads examined.
DEIRDRE: You better be careful, Seamus, before something happens a plastic surgeon can't Plastic fucking surgeon? You think I'm going to fix this, Deirdre lass? It's the mark of the patriot, and I'll wear it like a badge. As for those who done it to me, I'll take my pound of flesh before this is all over.
SEAMUS: ( a hideous laugh ) Plastic fucking surgeon? ( indicates his face ) You think I'm going to fix this, Deirdre lass? It's the mark of the patriot, and I'll wear it like a badge. As for those who done it to me, I'll take my pound of flesh before this is all over.
DEIRDRE: You're thinking with your gun, Seamus, and not your head.
SEAMUS: ( losing it ) Shut up!!! ( he puts a gun to her head ) Shut up and drive! I'm your superior officer and you will do as I goddamn well say, is that understood?!?
SEAMUS: Do I need to repeat myself?
DEIRDRE: No, Seamus. I heard you the first time.
SAM: Not here. They might see it.
VINCENT: If I'm going to die for the CIA, I'm going to go out smoking. Besides, there's half a forest between us and them, they can't see a goddamned
SAM: Time to quit.
VINCENT: Just like that?
SAM: Not just like that. Just before I turn around and it's six months from now and the first thing I do when I wake up in the morning is light a cigarette.
VINCENT: ( obviously he does this ) What of it? ( almost to himself ) Samurai pain in the ass.
SAM: ( he hates this ) Would you stop with that.
VINCENT: Why? You've got more force of will than anyone I've ever seen. You handle a gun like it's a part of you, you perform surgery on yourself without anesthesia. And most amazing of all, you quit smoking, just like that.
SAM: ( qith a cynical laugh ) The mark of a true Samurai. ( seriously ) What I do for the Company, Vincent, is no different than what you do. We're both hired guns, and this is a job like any other job.
VINCENT: Why then, Sam, don't you act like this is a job like any other? Surely, if you are a hired gun, you realize that some times you just have to walk away without getting what you came for.
SAM: Because I don't walk away.
VINCENT: Why not?
SAM: It's the one thing I've got left to hold Jean-Pierre is one of your closest friends, is he not?
VINCENT: Closest and oldest.
SAM: And yet you would have killed him to save my life. You have a sense of honor, Vincent, that I can't even remember anymore. I don't know that I ever even had it to begin with. All I know to do, Vincent, is to finish my job.
VINCENT: And when you finish? What then? This package, whatever it is, do you give it to the CIA? Do you really think they deserve it?
SAM: That's a good question.
VINCENT: Do you have a good answer?
SAM: ( he's really just considering No, I don't.
MIKHI: ( in Russian, English subtitles ) Sit, sit. ( offering a cigarette ) Would you like one?
GREGOR: ( in English ) No, Mikhi, I wouldn't. ( letting that sink in for a Since I won't speak your language, and you can't speak mine, English will do ( makes no never mind to him ) Whatever you wish. ( lights his own cigarette ) This has all been a terrible mistake, Gregor. I wanted to play straight with you, but Edvard insisted we try and kill Edvard said the same thing about you before he died.
MIKHI: ( makes no never mind to him ) Whatever you wish. ( lights his own cigarette ) This has all been a terrible mistake, Gregor. I wanted to play straight with you, but Edvard insisted we try and kill Edvard said the same thing about you before he died.
GREGOR: Edvard said the same thing about you before he died.
MIKHI: I'm shocked, shocked to think that you'd believe him.
GREGOR: ( suddenly sharp )
MIKHI: The moment of truth. Before this scene can develop any further, a VOICE comes from Off Screen, and as the Voice speaks, Gregor blanches.
GREGOR: What is he doing here?
SEAMUS: What am I doing here? Why, I'm here to see my partners, Gregor, the boys in the Russian Mafia. See, your bosses had hoped to screw me by hiring you to pull your thieving double cross. But they only just found out that what's in the briefcase is completely useless without me. I can't fight them, and they can't kill me that means we're gonna have to do business together.
GREGOR: But you hate each other!
SEAMUS: What's a little hate between business
SAM: I'm on point, Vincent.
GREGOR: ( to Seamus ) So, you've got it all figured, do you?
SEAMUS: Figured enough to know there's an odd man out and I'm looking at him.
GREGOR: I think not. I have, of course, taken the precaution of wiring the briefcase to explode five seconds after it opens. Unless, of course, I deactivate it before it goes That fucking figures.
DEIRDRE: ( under her breath ) That fucking figures.
GREGOR: Should any of you decide to rush me, I'll kill myself and whoever happens to be near me at the time.
MIKHI: And more importantly
GREGOR: I'll destroy whatever's in the case.
SEAMUS: It looks, Gentlemen, as if we're gonna have to sit down to table and work out an
MIKHI: What was that?
VINCENT: That's one less I owe you.
DEIRDRE: ( to Seamus and Mikhi ) You two stay here and watch our mutual
SAM: Let's work our way through the building. I'll take one wing, you take the other.
SAM: Watch your back, Vincent.
SEAMUS: I can't take it anymore. Watch him, man, I'm going out and finish what needs finishing!
SAM: Go on, them.
DEIRDRE: Let it go, Sam, walk away.
DEIRDRE: God damn it!
GREGOR: ( a feral hiss ) We'll die if we stay here!
MIKHI: ( threatening with the gun ) You'll die if you leave here.
VINCENT: You have to stop doing that!
SAM: I'll work on it.
SEAMUS: It's you. You're the one did this to my face, are That's me.
SAM: That's me.
SEAMUS: Have a nice afterlife.
SEAMUS: Deirdre, do for him, woman, put a fucking bullet in his head!
SEAMUS: Do it, for Christ's sake, do it so we can find that stinking Gregor, he's got the bloody package! For God's sake, you're a
SEAMUS: ( sensing he's getting to You're one of us.You been born and bred with your own people, you can't go against your nature. C'mon, girl, I'm you're people.
DEIRDRE: I'm no girl, Seamus.
DEIRDRE: And you ain't nobody's people.
SAM: ( to Deirdre ) Let's get him out of here.
VINCENT: Finish the job.
SAM: And now.
VINCENT: ( a commanding whisper ) Finish it!
DEIRDRE: ( calling out )
VINCENT: I'm really sick of you saving my life. Go out and get the bastard.
DEIRDRE: He's got the briefcase rigged to explode five seconds after anybody other than himself tries to open it.
SAM: Deirdre, wait up
GREGOR: You might have made a good field agent you arrogant American prick, but you're not smart enough to go up against me.
GREGOR: Go ahead, shoot. Shoot and kill the bitch, I don't care. And yet you don't shoot. Interesting. Put down your weapon and walk away.
DEIRDRE: Don't do it, Sam!
GREGOR: Shut up!
DEIRDRE: He'll kill me anway, Sam, shoot though me and kill this fucker.
SEAMUS: ( to Sam, in a cold pale rage ) Shoot that traitorous bitch and I'll let you live.
SAM: Are you alright?
DEIRDRE: Alright? It's bloody fucking freezing in
DETECTIVE: I need to speak with that man.
SAM: I'm sorry, I can't allow that.
SAM: Call that number and ask them what you should do.
DOCTOR: You can see your friend, now.
SAM: Thank you very much.
DOCTOR: The field dressing you put on saved his Where di you learn to do that?
SAM: Here and there, I guess.
VINCENT: You son-of-a-bitch.
SAM: You speak French.
VINCENT: You speak French.
SAM: What of it?
VINCENT: ( in mock exasperation )
VINCENT: ( repeating the Doctor's words "Your field dressing saved his life." That's three I owe you.
SAM: You don't owe me a goddamned thing, Vincent, and you know it. You stepped in front of a bullet for me. I owe you a heavy debt.
VINCENT: ( relishing this ) I know.
SAM: ( rising to leave ) You better get some sleep, alright?
VINCENT: Tell me something first. The package: what was it?
SAM: I don't know. Nobody knows, except a bunch of people who are too dead to tell us. There's probably a couple of guys back at the Company who know, but I don't think they plan to tell me anytime soon.
VINCENT: What happened to it?
SAM: Gone. Destroyed.
VINCENT: ( sighs, then a beat ) I guess that's for the best.
VINCENT: Sam, when Gregor had Deirdre by the lake, you could have killed the two of them with one shot. You could have had the package, finished the job. But you didn't, you sacrificed the job to save her life. Why?
SAM: It's what you would have done.
SAM: I told you, I quit.
VINCENT: Just to keep me company, Sam I hate smoking alone. How about you? I thought all you IRA types smoked.
DEIRDRE: Only the stupid ones. Cigarettes kill more patriots than bullets. Besides, I'm not IRA no more.
VINCENT: So where do you go from here?
DEIRDRE: I don't know. I was thinking.Maybe the three of us might partner up guns for hire, that sort of thing.
VINCENT: I'm up for that.
SAM: Not me. You work too often with the same people and you become friends clouds your judgement.
DEIRDRE: Come off it, Sam if we weren't friends already we wouldn't be here now, would She's got a point. Besides, I know of a job that's
VINCENT: She's got a point. Besides, I know of a job that's
SAM: How much does it pay?
PUNK: This is for Seamus!
VINCENT: ( soft yet urgent ) We have to go, Sam, we can't be here.
VINCENT: ( a little louder, bordering Let's go!!
VINCENT: ( thrusting the cigarettes out to Doctor's orders.
