RUSH HOUR: Original Screenplay
REPORTER: ( to TV CAMERA ) Eager to mend its tarnished image, Los Angeles has really put out the welcome mat for tomorrow's summit. The city promises quite a party as leaders from Japan, China, South Korea, Australia, the U.S. and others begin talks for the largest free-trade treaty in history. The SCENE changes to TAPE of DELEGATES from other countries Then, we see massive SECURITY PREPARATIONS all around the city.
NEW ANGLE: The hand belongs to 10-year-old SAM KE HAN. Sam sits back and sighs to his sister, JOY ( 15 ). Between them sits a middle-aged Scandinavian GOVERNESS.
SAM: I can't stand it half an hour to get to the stupid school every morning. with no music. [Just our damn Nanny.]
WIDER: Causing, 50 yards ahead of the Mercedes and van, the most hellacious, gut-wrenching, piss-your-pants, chain-reaction PILE-UP you can imagine. Dozens of drivers LOSE CONTROL of their vehicles. sideswipe their neighbors. grind against the guard rails. Some fishtail into 180's, smashing headlong into the traffic still coming onto the overpass. Brakes squeal, people scream, metal crumples, airbags deploy, glass shatters. And then it gets really nasty. A Honda gets jammed under a truck hauling cinder blocks. The truck JACKKNIFES, tipping over like a drunken giant. It SMASHES through the concrete wall and guard rail. Along with several cars and their SCREAMING OCCUPANTS, swept over the edge by the truck like discarded soda cans. They plummet through space, CRASHING onto the freeway below.
DRIVER: ( Korean ) [Stay in the car.]
CARSON: Son of a bitch! He bolts out of bed, wearing nothing but a pair of striped bikini briefs. Miranda rolls over, sleepy, unconcerned.
MIRANDA: Pete. please. we have to be up early tomorrow. Call the police.
CARSON: Yeah, right. He races down the hall right past the house alarm keypad, its LCD reading "ARMED." He grabs an aluminum baseball bat from the umbrella stand. Forgetting to disarm the house alarm, he yanks the front door open. The house alarm begins SHRIEKING.
CARSON: ( continuing ) pulls the pillows over her head and sighs.
MIRANDA: pulls the pillows over her head and sighs.
MIRANDA: Not again.
NEW ANGLE: Asshole #1 lunges viciously, swiping at Carson with the crowbar, taking a piece out of his side. Carson starts BLEEDING profusely, but he's too pissed to notice. Carson uses his bat to take the offensive. They go at each other like combatants in a swordfight, the CLANKING of metal echoing through the neighborhood along with the screaming house and car ALARMS, and frantic neighborhood DOGS. Surprised at Carson's fury and strength, Asshole #1 backs onto the lawn, oblivious to the running SPRINKLERS. As he backs away, his shoe catches on one of the sprinkler heads. It breaks off, and a huge GEYSER of water sprays out. Carson holds his bat in both hands and jams the front of it into Asshole #1's breadbasket. He doubles over. Carson grabs Asshole #1's arm, and pulls it quickly against his raised knee. There is a SNAP and a loud howl as the arm breaks, and Carson tosses him aside. Seeing this, Asshole #2 gives up on the car. He takes off toward the street. Carson runs to head him off, but he's a lot faster in his Air Jordans than Carson is in his bare feet.
WIDER: Carson grabs the metal lid from a garbage can at the curb and FLINGS it like a huge Frisbee. It sails across the street And NAILS Asshole #2's head. He kisses the pavement, stunned. Carson runs up and grabs him, but he pulls out a long, sharp screwdriver and jabs at Carson with it. Then, blue flashing lights appear from around the corner: A WESTEC Chevy Blazer. Two uniformed GUARDS get out, and fumble with their sidearms.
WESTEC GUARD: Everybody. chill! Bikini boy! On the ground! Asshole #2 is still trying to gouge Carson with the screwdriver. Carson glares at the dopey Guards.
CARSON: Asshole was trying to boost my car!
CARSON: Mike call 911!
NEIGHBOR: Been trying. It's busy. He's the good guy, you schumcks. The Guards seem to get it. Without warning, one takes out a TASER and ZAPS Asshole #2. Carson lets go just in time.
CLOSER: Holding his bleeding side, Carson walks back to his house. He notices the "Neighborhood Watch" sign has graffiti spray- painted on it. He touches it the paint is still wet. His Neighbor shrugs whatta ya gonna do? The PAPER GUY drives by. and tosses Carson's newspaper right under the gushing SPRINKLER.
CARSON: I hate this fuckin' town.
JOY: There are six bathrooms in this house, Sam.
SAM: ( fanning the air ) But only one with a smoking section. She quickly closes the door behind her. Sam laughs.
AMBASSADOR HAN: ( Korean ) [Go change.] Ambassador Han's X-ray stare turns to Joy.
AMBASSADOR HAN: ( continuing ) [You smell like a fireplace.] A BUTLER appears with a phone. He WHISPERS to Mrs. Han.
MRS. HAN: It's the Governess. Hello, Hilda.
GOVERNESS: ( thru phone ) Mrs. Han. I am very sick today.
MRS. HAN: ( into phone ) We will see you next week. ( hangs up; smiles to kids ) It appears I'll be taking you to INT. JAVAL'S VAN - DAY In the back of his van, Javal pats the Governess' hand.
JAVAL: Very good. You may go now. He speaks with a slight accent, French, perhaps. He pops an orange pill, then unlatches the rear doors of the van. With a quick glance back at him, she goes to open the doors. Javal grabs a plastic tarp and throws it over the Governess' upper body. He puts his arm across her neck, flicks open a gravity knife and PLUNGES it through the tarp, into her chest. He drops her on the floor of the van and fastidiously wipes a small smudge of blood from his hand with a handkerchief.
BOBBI: ( on TV ) .Good morning, Summit Day! It's gonna be the Super Bowl, the 4th of July, the Olympics and Woodstock all rolled into one! All over town there'll be parades, concerts, rallies, festivals. So get out there everyone, but plan your drive- time accordingly! This is Bobbi Marchfelder, your Eye in the Sky. We CUT TO the White House lawn, where the PRESIDENT is about to board a helicopter.
PRESIDENT: ( on TV ) .It's an honor hosting my fellow leaders in Los Angeles, the capitol city of the Pacific Rim. We CUT BACK to the studio and the MORNING ANCHOR.
MORNING ANCHOR: ( on TV ) We'll see the menu for Mayor Simpson's Brentwood barbecue, right after this. We CUT TO a MUSICAL MONTAGE of preparations for the events around town.
MIRANDA: I was watching that.
CARSON: If I hear one more Beach Boys song, I'll shoot myself. Miranda points at the headphones she can't hear him.
CARSON: ( continuing; while smiling ) I said, if we were having sex once in a while, you wouldn't need to ride that fucking bike every morning.
MIRANDA: ( hasn't heard a thing ) Be right with you. As Carson dresses, we get a LOOK at their bedroom Miranda's nightstand has two neat stacks of periodicals on it, with Los Angeles magazine and Psychology Today on the top of them. Carson's nightstand is overflowing with books and magazines about other cities and states: Wonderland Washington; Magnificent Oregon; Welcome to North Carolina."
MIRANDA: ( looks him over ) Have you gotten any sleep lately?
CARSON: ( ignores the question ) Shop's gonna tow the car in goddamn ignition's trashed.
MIRANDA: Take mine. I'll ride in with Diane. Carson watches as she carefully picks the dead leaves off the rose bushes.
CARSON: You ask me, those suckers are a lost She continues, then glances at the article Carson is reading.
MIRANDA: It's not for you.
CARSON: You mean it's not for you.
MIRANDA: I don't chase car thieves in my underwear. C'mon, you'd die of boredom if we ever sold this house and moved.
CARSON: I'd die of shock, from finding anyone dumb enough to buy the place. Even for what it's worth now.
MIRANDA: Lots of people bought at the top of the market.
CARSON: That sure cheers me right up.
MIRANDA: I don't know why we even talk about it. The city's not the problem. So we move. It wouldn't matter. What's that saying: "Wherever you go, there you are." Carson just looks at her. Reaching for the salt, he winces from the cut in his side.
MIRANDA: ( continuing ) I hope you're current on your tetanus booster. Was it worth it?
CARSON: One cut. two assholes in the hospital. Yep. Carson glances at his watch and gets up.
CARSON: ( continuing ) Well, another day of baby-sitting my favorite bunch of people. He grabs a Bianchi shoulder holster with a Sig-Sauer P-229, 9mm pistol, straps it on, then pulls on a blue windbreaker. Emblazoned on the back are large yellow letters: FBI.
MIRANDA: Ask for a transfer.
CARSON: They're not gonna transfer me. You know damn well why I was bumped down to guard duty. My outstanding people skills. Miranda tries to return to tending her roses. But instead, she sadly watches him go.
CARSON: I hate this fuckin' town. Carson CHIRPS open Miranda's car: a red Volvo 960. As he pulls away, we SEE a bumper sticker on the car: a circle and slash through cartoon weapons on one side, cartoon teddy bears on the other, and "Arms Are For Hugging" in between.
THEIR POV: In the driveway across the street, a man in a business suit has his head under the hood of a brand-new Jaguar convertible. The JAG OWNER's 15-year-old, blonde daughter, LISA, sits in the car with her schoolbooks in her lap.
JOY: turns to Mrs. Han:
JOY: Can we give Lisa a ride?
LISA: Hey, Joy. Sam. Joy rolls the window up and the SOUND of cursing disappears.
LISA: ( continuing ) Excellent I can't hear him!
SAM: ( raps on window ) The glass is an inch thick. ( points to doors, roof ) Armor-plated. Bulletproof. Bomb- Perfect car for L.A. ( looks back at her Dad ) Starts, too.
LISA: Perfect car for L.A. Starts, too.
ROBBINS: Yo, Dave the Computer Man! Actually escaped the office!
DAVE: I'm doin' field upgrades. Gives 'em a chance to hose out my cage. He glances through the window at Colonel Lee.
DAVE: ( continuing ) Who's the fuckin' gargoyle?
ROBBINS: Their Chief of Security, Colonel Lee. Sabatini makes the jerk-off sign with her hand.
SABATINI: "Chuckles," as we're inclined to call him. Friggin' graveyard shift.
ROBBINS: Love to know what dope made it the Bureau's job to give full-time protection to foreign consulates. Cup a mud?
DAVE: Not if you made it. Why don't you get Sabatini to brew the java? She's the alleged chick.
SABATINI: Blow me.
DAVE: Where's Carson?
SABATINI: On his way. Some creeps tried to rip off his Mustang last night. They cut the ragtop.
DAVE: Dave takes three PCMCIA computer cards from his attachÈ case.
DAVE: ( continuing ) Latest and greatest. Wireless network link-ups.
SABATINI: Whoa, slow down, I'm gonna pee.
ROBBINS: Me, too.
DAVE: EXT. CRENSHAW BLVD - DAY The van drives in the lane alongside the Mercedes.
INSERT: Under the Mercedes, the device Javal planted there begins to emit thick, white CS TEAR GAS.
WIDER: The other drivers in the intersection see this and go completely nuts. Some duck for cover under their dashboards. Others peel away. A few COLLIDE with oncoming traffic. The Carpool Lady in the Cherokee pushes the kids down on the floor. The Fruit Vendor hides by rolling under a car. Sam and Joy are incapacitated by tear-gas coughing fits. Mrs. Han stumbles toward them, trying to get them to run away. Javal PUNCHES her, knocking her down. He turns to Lisa, surprised to see her. Sweating, he points the shotgun at her. almost pulls the trigger. then notices Mrs. Han's expression of horror and thinks the better of it. He spots a MOTORIST in a Ford Escort, peering cautiously over his dashboard to get a look at the action. Javal SHOOTS the Motorist through the windshield with another bright, searing blast of magnesium. The Motorist and the entire front of his car burst into FLAMES. Mrs. Han is on her knees, sobbing. Javal grabs her by the arm and pulls her to the back of the van. He opens the doors.
JAVAL: You see that I'm serious in my intention, yes? If you cooperate, you and your children will be home for dinner He tightens his grip on her. She nods again, then looks at the kids. Javal shoves her, Sam, Joy and Lisa into the van.
COLONEL LEE: ( Korean; to Ambassador Han ) [You must stay here.] Ambassador Han nods. The FBI agents run up. To them:
AMBASSADOR HAN: Someone took my family! The agents look at each other holy shit! Colonel Lee's car SCREECHES to a stop. Sabatini stands in front of it.
SABATINI: You got no jurisdiction outside this property! Colonel Lee shoves a big, ugly Tokorev 7.62x25mm-caliber pistol in her face as he's opening the car door.
SABATINI: ( continuing ) ( to Ambassador Han ) Yank his fuckin' leash!
AMBASSADOR HAN: My men are going! Colonel Lee jumps into the car and it screeches away, almost running Sabatini over.
AMBASSADOR HAN: ( continuing; to Sabatini ) It's a white telephone van, driving west on Washington Boulevard. The agents rush back to their guardhouse. Dave's government Dodge is blocking theirs.
ROBBINS: Dave tosses them to Robbins. Sabatini shoves Dave into the back seat. He looks at her, dumbfounded.
SABATINI: You're ridin' shotgun.
ROBBINS: Under the seat. Sabatini grabs the red flashing light, puts it on the dashboard.
DAVE: Under the seat. Sabatini grabs the red flashing light, puts it on the dashboard.
ROBBINS: I don't know! I'm never in a fuckin' EXT. FREMONT PLACE - DAY Just as they race out of Fremont Place past the guard gate, Carson, in Miranda's Volvo, comes in on the other side.
DAVE: I don't know! I'm never in a fuckin' EXT. FREMONT PLACE - DAY Just as they race out of Fremont Place past the guard gate, Carson, in Miranda's Volvo, comes in on the other side.
SABATINI: Someone snatched Han's family! White phone van, westbound on Washington! Carson looks like he's been punched in the stomach.
CARSON: Give me a secure radio! Sabatini takes a small two-way MOTOROLA RADIO out of her pocket and throws it through her window to Carson. Dropping it in his lap, he punches the gas. Robbins floors Dave's piece-of- shit Dodge, trying to keep up.
WALTHER: Clothes make the man.
WALTHER: ( smiles ) The man makes payments on his Visa. Walther's SECRETARY rushes in.
SECRETARY: Mr. Walther. priority line!
WALTHER: ( into phone ) This is Diplomatic Liaison Earl Walther. What's the nature of your ( grimaces ) Aw, Jesus. not today. ( beat ) I'll inform channels and get a copter in the air. For God's sake, keep it quiet. Do what you can, but don't endanger civilians or the family!
CARSON: ( into radio ) You bet nice and easy. Real easy, until he narrowly MISSES a bunch of cars when SCREECHING around a corner.
WALTHER: ( into phone ) Get the Secretary of State on the ( listens ) I know he left already. I'm familiar with the concept of time zones. Find his ass.
CARSON: ( into radio ) Robbins, Sabatini. Chopper's on its way.
CARSON: ( into radio ) Check it out! Ahead, on the right!
CARSON: ( into radio ) Yeah. but it seems too easy. I'll move up; he won't suspect a civilian car. Stay back, then get on his ass when I signal. We'll box him in. He looks over at Colonel Lee, whose car is pacing his.
CARSON: ( continuing; into radio ) If the Mod Squad gets in your way, don't be shy about getting 'em out.
SABATINI: Don't puke. I hate when guys puke!
HIS POV: As Carson nonchalantly passes, Javal NOTICES the government- issue two-way radio sitting on the seat of Carson's Volvo.
JAVAL: grins. it's show-time. He STOMPS on the gas.
JAVAL: I need to concentrate!
NEW ANGLE: The Cops do notice Javal speeding by, with Carson's Volvo, the FBI Dodge and Colonel Lee's car in hot pursuit. They shove the ticket in the Well-Dressed Woman's hand and hop in their car.
CARSON: ( into radio ) He's gonna wrap it around something!
NEW ANGLE: Carson, horrified, jumps out of his car. Robbins and Sabatini run up. They have to hold Carson away from the burning van. Dave hurries to the back of a building and gets sick. Colonel Lee, wide-eyed with anger, gets in Carson's face.
COLONEL LEE: You should not have interfered! Carson shoves Colonel Lee out of his way, hard.
CARSON: I'm in no mood. Colonel Lee comes back, ready for a fight. Carson is happy to oblige, but Robbins grabs Carson's arm.
ROBBINS: Forget about him! By now, ONLOOKERS have begun to gather, as LAPD black-and whites and helicopters converge on the area.
CARSON: Let's get back to the Consulate. Off their perplexed looks, we
JAVAL: Does anyone need to use the rest room? This will be your last opportunity for a few hours. Very well. Mrs. Han, Sam, Joy, please sit here. And you. what is your name?
LISA: ( after a beat ) Still holding the Beretta, he grabs a polo shirt from the closet and pulls it on. As the family sits in the chairs:
JAVAL: No, Mrs. Han, this one. Thank you. He takes a pair of handcuffs out of his pants pocket. He tries to handcuff Lisa, hands behind her back, but she resists.
JAVAL: ( continuing; sotto ) You afford me some additional bargaining power. But not much. She wilts. Javal cuffs her to the handles of the refrigerator. He puts a strip of duct tape from his tool box across her mouth. He uncovers one of the items atop the TV: An electronic box with three pairs of oversized, LED VU meters on the front of it. We NOTICE neat lines of wires running from each of the chairs up into it. Javal flips one of a row of switches on it; a green light and the meters come to life.
JAVAL: ( continuing ) There. No taping your mouths, no restraints. Please remain still while I explain. The meters on the left indicate sound pressure Decibels. There are microphones on your chair backs. If you raise your voices above certain level, putting your meter in the red zone for more than one sustained second, the circuit will be closed. ( beat ) The right meters indicate motion. There are pressure sensors inside the armrests and seats. The sensors don't like to get wet, so I hope you were honest about not needing to use the loo. If you make any excess movements, or try to leave your chair, the circuit will be closed.
MRS. HAN: I don't understand. She looks at her sound meter, which jumped close to the red.
MRS. HAN: ( continuing; softly ) What happens if the circuit closes?
JAVAL: He uncovers the other item atop the TV a one-pound brick of C-4 high explosive with the detonation mechanism jammed into it. Mrs. Han gasps and begins to PANIC.
JAVAL: ( continuing ) Easy. deep breath. ( to the kids ) Do each of you understand? They nod. Tears roll down Joy's face.
JAVAL: ( continuing ) Keep your wits, and all will be fine. He flips another switch and the green light turns yellow. He then turns on the TV. COVERAGE of the Summit is everywhere.
COMMENTATOR #1: ( on TV ) .Not since the '84 Olympics has the whole city had an such an opportunity Javal turns the channel to a SOAP, and MUTES it. He starts pacing, and glances at his watch. It's 9:15 AM.
WALTHER: ( Carson nods ) Walther. Who told the Ambassador?
CARSON: His Security Chief. There was a civilian with them fifteen-year-old girl from across the street. We're trying to reach the parents.
WALTHER: Goddamn it. Look, Mrs. Han was the North Korean Premier's niece! We're hearing rumors they're gonna make a major issue out of what happened here.
CARSON: I'm not so sure what happened here. Something smells. Asshole was acting like he wanted us to spot him.
WALTHER: What the hell are you talking about?
WALTHER: Ambassador Han. my deepest
AMBASSADOR HAN: I have no wish for condolences. Just answers.
WALTHER: As soon as we have any to give. Suddenly, the Butler sprints across the foyer. He shoves the cordless phone into Ambassador Han's hands. Ambassador Han listens to the phone, then takes in a sharp breath and sits on the steps.
AMBASSADOR HAN: ( into phone ) ( to FBI agents ) Start a trace! Carson is elated. Robbins, Sabatini and Dave rush out. Walther pulls out a cell phone and hits a speed-dial key.
CARSON: ( to FBI agents ) Start a trace! Carson is elated. Robbins, Sabatini and Dave rush out. Walther pulls out a cell phone and hits a speed-dial key.
WALTHER: ( into phone ) Mr. Secretary. they're alive!
COLONEL LEE: ( to Carson; incensed ) You are tapping our phones?!
CARSON: ( while crossing to Ambassador Han ) Yeah, you didn't know. And I'm Meryl INT. BACHELOR APARTMENT - DAY Javal is holding his cell phone next to Mrs. Han's face.
MRS. HAN: ( into phone ) We are not hurt. But this man is very serious He pulls the phone from her, takes a breath to compose himself.
JAVAL: ( into phone ) I want you to remember the feeling you had when you thought your family was dead, and use it to inform the choices you're about to make.
CARSON: Say you want to talk to the kids.
AMBASSADOR HAN: ( into phone ) I need to know my children are all ( thru phone ) Be in front of a television in two minutes. Tune it to channel four. You'll get the picture. Javal hangs up. Stunned, Ambassador Han stands up.
AMBASSADOR HAN: There is a television in my office. As Carson, Ambassador Han, Colonel Lee and Walther hurry to the office in the back of the house, Carson's radio crackles:
DAVE: Play the tape back. I might be able to pull the electronic serial number out of the subcarrier.
ROBBINS: ( smiles; into radio ) Hey, great idea.
CLOSER: There is a cable running from Javal's computer to his cell phone. He hooks another cable to the digital camera, and an IMAGE appears on the screen of his laptop. He clicks on "SEND."
AMBASSADOR HAN: ( to Walther ) P'yÚngyang must approve the ransom.
WALTHER: Of course. The FBI's top Hostage Negotiator is on the way
CARSON: Goddamn Negotiator's the last thing we need! This asshole sound like he was interested in bargaining? Walther glares at Carson, then continues to Ambassador Han:
WALTHER: We have people who are experts in these situations. We really feel it would be best if you let them coordinate everything. Numb, Ambassador Han nods.
WALTHER: ( continuing; to Carson ) Let's get on it.
CARSON: .You're gonna just pay up, count on his good nature to return the It's the President's intention to keep this quiet, move forward with the Summit, and work with the North Koreans. Jesus, you've already embarrassed the shit out of us over the phone surveillance
WALTHER: It's the President's intention to keep this quiet, move forward with the Summit, and work with the North Koreans. Jesus, you've already embarrassed the shit out of us over the phone surveillance
CARSON: They know their phones are tapped! They tap our fucking phones!
WALTHER: That's not the point! The point is not acknowledging it! We got an international incident brewing, with a country we were practically at war with last year! Our best Negotiator is gonna run point. If you got a problem, you can take the goddamn rest of the day off.
CARSON: This Consulate is my responsibility.
WALTHER: Not any more. Carson is stunned. ( OS ), we hear a CHOPPER approaching.
WALTHER: ( continuing ) That's the Negotiator. You do the Carson shoots a disgusted look at the others, then leaves.
CARSON: .Our worst enemy'll be the city. There are events gearing up all around town, and a dozen world leaders arriving. Add the Friday rush hour and usual L.A. bad behavior and it'll be a nightmare out there by 3 PM. It all works to the advantage of the kidnapper, hinders our pursuit efforts. You don't agree?
WIDER: The Negotiator stands and takes the faxes from Carson. It's Miranda, his wife. Her FBI shield-holder is folded over the breast pocket of her jacket.
MIRANDA: I'm wondering whether to believe him when he says he's strictly motivated by money.
CARSON: ( grabs faxes back ) You see one word of Peoples'- Liberation, Holy-Jihad, Revolutionary this-week bullshit in this entire I still want to check the MO against known politicals, terrorists
MIRANDA: I still want to check the MO against known politicals, terrorists
CARSON: Already doing it. We're coordinating with the Secret Service, the NSA and the CIA.
MIRANDA: Have someone talk to the LAPD, give them a cover story for the media about the crash on La Cienega. Walther comes in and looks at Carson.
WALTHER: Why didn't you tell me Doctor Knoll is your wife?! This surprises Ambassador Han and Colonel Lee.
CARSON: ( while looking at Miranda ) If she'd changed her name when we got married, I wouldn't have to.
MIRANDA: ( to Carson ) I'm so enjoying this opportunity to finally work together.
WALTHER: Jesus, forget I asked. The cash will be here in an hour. Any thoughts on the kidnapper's Everything indicates he's working alone. And his concerns do seem to be solely about the money. so I agree that he's only using the Summit and the tension with North Korea to create extreme motivation to pay the ransom.
MIRANDA: Everything indicates he's working alone. And his concerns do seem to be solely about the money. so I agree that he's only using the Summit and the tension with North Korea to create extreme motivation to pay the ransom.
COLONEL LEE: I will bring the money to him.
CARSON: My ass.
COLONEL LEE: The hostages are citizens of the People's Republic of Korea
CARSON: Hey, do I go to the torture chambers in your prisons, tell you how to do your job?
WALTHER: All right, you're outta here! Is this the same insubordinate crap you pulled at Beverly Thrift? Carson glares coldly at Walther.
CARSON: I'll coordinate the drop.
AMBASSADOR HAN: Perhaps that is better. Inspector Carson knows the terrain
COLONEL LEE: Then he can come with me. Walther looks at Miranda. She nods her assent.
WALTHER: ( firm; to Carson ) It's settled.
CARSON: It sucks.
MIRANDA: But it means we can get on with it. The Americans leave the room.
MIRANDA: ( sotto ) Get one thing straight, Mr. Walther. If the Bureau had listened to Pete, Beverly Thrift never would've INT. BACHELOR APARTMENT - DAY Hands shaking with nerve- and speed-induced jitters, Javal turns two switches on the unit atop the TV. Two LED readouts light up: one shows the current time 2:30 PM the other is fixed at 5:00 PM. Below, the TV is still on. Javal flips the channels, stopping at a rerun of "Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous." He suppresses a gleeful giggle.
JAVAL: That's more like it. He checks the contents of his prescription bottle. Two pills. He takes one, stuffs the bottle in his pocket, and leaves.
OPERATIVE: ( into uplink device ) .They've got the Premier agreeing to the hard-line position He hears footsteps approaching ( OS ).
OPERATIVE: ( continuing; sotto ) More to follow. He angles skyward a tiny dish-shaped antenna on the Device. On its screen it says COMPRESSING. SCRAMBLING. UPLINKING. After it's finished, the Operative snaps it closed and puts it into a false bottom in his attachÈ case. He disappears just before a GUARD rounds the corner.
DAVE: I wanted to be home by now, take the kids to the rally in Boyle Heights.
SABATINI: We got a cabin in Big Bear. By now, L.A. was supposed to be a brown blotch in the rear-view mirror. She's helping Walther stack packs of THOUSAND-DOLLAR-BILLS into a series of small plastic bags, tying each one off when it's the size of a brick. They then put the individual bags into two larger bags. Robbins rubber-bands a matchbook-sized HOMING TRANSMITTER in between two packs of cash. He then hollows out a dime-sized space inside a different pack of money with a razor knife. He puts a tiny, SECOND homing transmitter in the space. Carson checks some hand-held receivers. Miranda crosses to him.
MIRANDA: He'll expect a homing device
CARSON: I expect him to expect it. He'll check the cash with an RF detector. ( re larger transmitter ) Meaning he'll find this one. ( re smaller transmitter ) This only has a quarter-mile range, but on a frequency too low to detect. ( turns off receiver ) And I doubt the asshole will have an X-ray machine or a metal detector.
MIRANDA: Why must you always refer generically to criminals as "assholes?"
CARSON: Gosh, you're right. It could undermine their self-esteem and spoil their chances for rehabilitation.
MIRANDA: You been reading my magazines in the bathroom again? She returns to listening to an AUDIO TAPE:
MIRANDA: He's really exhibiting pressured speech. big effort here to sound calm. Same with his vocabulary. if he were in control, he wouldn't feel such a need to sound that way.
CARSON: Just tell me if we can use it.
MIRANDA: If we needle him he could get sloppy and give us an opening, but I'm not going to risk it. This is the worst kind of perpetrator: anything makes him deviate from his carefully- scripted plan, he could become extremely volatile.
MIRANDA: It's real important we don't lose him. He didn't go through all the trouble of designing that bomb not to use it. Carson looks at her as the thought of it hits him.
CARSON: Well, it ain't gonna happen. Not again.
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) What the hell is the big crisis?
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) Bullshit. They're just ticked because we don't want the Chinese dragging their asses into the treaty talks. The SENIOR INTELLIGENCE OFFICER refers to his notes.
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER: We have a covert operative in place. He reports the hard-liners and moderates in the High Command are arguing about how to respond, should the Premier's niece and her children should be killed.
PRESIDENT: ( scowls; thru video link ) Respond?! Christ. What about the damn Premier?
CIA CHIEF: Which is a real possibility. Most of those old-fart Generals don't want to be part of the Summit any more than we want them to. They're mad as hell he even talked to the Chinese.
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) I don't want to deal with this right now! Get our diplomats on it. Tell the North we'll pay the ransom for 'em. Placate 'em! And make damn sure we get that family back in one piece. Who's in charge in L.A.?
FBI CHIEF: The Bureau, Sir. We have a crack team in place.
CIA CHIEF: ( to FBI Chief ) What about your man stationed at the ( refers to notes ) Carson? He was demoted from the FBI Hostage Program, couple years back. And this did happen on his watch.
FBI CHIEF: ( irritated ) There's no way he could've prevented this abduction! Besides, I've got one of my top Negotiators in charge
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) Whatever. I want a total news blackout and I want this over with, quickly! Without giving those Commie little bastards any excuse to shit all over my Summit!
MIRANDA: ( into phone ) Yes, please go ahead.
MIRANDA: ( into phone ) I'm only here to see that everyone gets what they want
CARSON: ( into radio ) Shit. no way we can set up a stake- out in. ( checks watch ) Four minutes. Call the Park Rangers at the Bowl. Have them clear the area of civilians.
CARSON: ( to himself ) Must've bought a house same time we EXT. HIGHLAND AVENUE - VARIOUS ANGLES - DAY Robbins and Walther are inching along in traffic on Highland near Hollywood Blvd. Elsewhere, we see unmarked police and government cars cruising around, dropping off disguised FOOT-SURVEILLANCE OFFICERS, etc.
CARSON: ( into radio ) There's about a hundred ways he can scurry off like a cockroach from here. So spread out. Colonel Lee checks their BEEPING homing receiver. Carson hangs a left onto Highland, going back the way he came.
DAVE: ( into radio ) Our boy's in a fuckin' ice cream EXT. ODIN STREET - DAY Sabatini and Dave watch Javal's van through the trees.
DAVE: Son of a bitch! He found the bleepers both of INT. MERCEDES - ( MOVING SHOT ) - DAY Fuck! Okay, stay back. It's not like he'll be hard to see in that truck. Which way's he heading?
CARSON: ( into radio ) Fuck! Okay, stay back. It's not like he'll be hard to see in that truck. Which way's he heading?
MIRANDA: ( into radio ) What happened?
MIRANDA: ( beat; into radio ) All right. Carefully.
CARSON: Watch it! We need him alive!
COLONEL LEE: Turn around! But Carson hugs the shoulder, moving through the heavy traffic, until he spots what he was looking for: The Biker Club, riding in formation up ahead. Carson cuts in front of them and slams on the brakes. He jumps out and grabs one of the Biker's machines by the handlebars, wrestling it to a stop. While pulling its BURLY OWNER off it:
CARSON: FBI. Call our office, they'll take care of you. Meanwhile, the other BIKERS have come to help their friend. They pull guns, knives, chains. They're stopped by Sabatini, who appears holding her MP-5 machine pistol. The Biker yells at Carson as he drives way:
BIKER: I'm a taxpayer! I'm a goddamn COLONEL LEE gets in the driver's seat of the Mercedes and turns it around.
COLONEL LEE: gets in the driver's seat of the Mercedes and turns it around.
JAVAL: continues down the freeway on his bike, straddling lanes, driving the wrong way, retracing his route back to Highland, leaving CAR HORNS, CURSING, and COLLISIONS in his wake.
WIDER: When everyone thinks they've seen it all, here comes another mad biker Carson riding against traffic in pursuit.
CARSON: Just don't kill yourself, you piece of shit. Carson fishes out his two-way.
CARSON: ( continuing; into radio ) Helicopter or two would be nice!
MIRANDA: ( into radio ) Love to be in the loop on this.
CARSON: ( to himself ) Not just now, dear. Seeing Carson approaching on his right, Javal pulls his Benelli shotgun from one of the saddlebags. He rests the barrel on his arm and FIRES a blinding-white load of magnesium at Carson. Carson grabs the brake handles to slow down, and the BLAST crosses just in front of him. A few BURNING pieces pepper the front fender of the bike, but the bulk HITS the concrete art- deco statue in the entrance to the Hollywood Bowl. The statue shatters into a million FLAMING fragments.
CARSON: ( continuing; grumbling ) I coulda had a ranch. maybe some horses. but no, we moved to L.A.
JAVAL: speeds up. A car passing on the right BUMPS him. Javal grabs for the handlebar to stabilize himself, DROPPING the shotgun. A HELICOPTER appears, and flies just above him. Then, spotting some police cars ahead, he quickly hangs a right, ducking onto Alta Loma Terrace.
NEW ANGLE: Javal has reached the summit, only to find he's boxed in. He can either turn around, or take the neighborhood's unique, outdoor elevator, housed in a free-standing, three-story concrete tower. He jumps off his bike. Carrying the saddlebags, he runs into the elevator but it needs a key to operate. Javal comes back out, panicking. He HEARS Carson coming up the hill. He spots a GARDENER watering nearby with a hose.
HIS POV: The casement window in the back of the tower is broken. One end of the gardener's hose is tied to a grate, and the hose is hanging through the broken window. Carson looks out the window as Javal climbs down the outside of the tower on the hose to High Tower Drive, the street below.
CARSON: ( into radio ) He's on foot, at the base of the elevator tower! But just as Carson is about to climb down the hose.
CARSON: ( into radio ) Goddammit! He's in a blue Geo!
CLOSER: From the series of jerking, slipping MOVEMENTS, it is clear the copter is not going to stay where it is for long. The Geo's passenger side door pops open. Javal, panting with fear, jimmies his foot against the dashboard and holds the steering wheel to keep from falling out.
JAVAL: reacts to another SLIP. The big saddlebags of money on the seat start to slide toward the open door. He gingerly reaches over to grab them. the copter SHIFTS again. he loses his grip. And, clutching the saddlebags, he TOPPLES out of the car. We stay with him as he FALLS 12 stories, SCREAMING. Then LANDING on top of a parking meter. It RIPS though his chest and he hits the sidewalk with a wet THUD.
BEHIND CARSON: the copter and Geo crash to the sidewalk and EXPLODE.
NEW ANGLE: Sooty, covered in Javal's blood, Carson crosses to the others. He throws Walther the saddlebags and Sabatini the severed hand.
CARSON: Fingerprint it. He's not gonna tell us where to find the hostages. Meaning we got exactly 80 minutes to figure it out for ourselves.
WALTHER: Figure it out?! With what?!
CARSON: ( ignores him; into radio ) Miranda! We need a copter, pronto! ( to Robbins ) Get back to his van. There were no plates, but check the VIN, look it over, then meet us at the Consulate. Robbins is still trying to process what just happened.
CARSON: ( continuing ) INT. NORTH KOREAN CONSULATE - AMBASSADOR HAN'S OFFICE - DAY The clock reads 3:50 PM. Carson, Miranda, Robbins, Sabatini, Ambassador Han and Colonel Lee are all TALKING at once.
CARSON: ( to Walther ) .Scrounge us some bodies: National Guard, State Troopers, CHPs, local PD's, meter maids
WALTHER: They're gonna search the whole city in a goddamn hour..?!
CARSON: Look, I don't need you to tell me how fucked we are!
WALTHER: Fuck you!! Every time you're on a case something explodes! Carson looks like he's going to explode. Before he can reply:
MIRANDA: Stop! The clock's running! Arguing is a luxury we can't afford! What's done is done. There'll be plenty of time to point fingers Carson would love to get into it, but he lets it slide. He looks Sabatini, wandering aimlessly with Javal's severed hand.
SABATINI: I need some fuckin' ink!! Carson grabs one of the expensive pens from Ambassador Han's desk, SNAPS it in half, and hands it to her. In the b.g. she stands at the credenza, inks the hand's fingers and thumb and rolls them onto a piece of letterhead paper.
AMBASSADOR HAN: This is impossible! How can you even begin to find them? Good question. All eyes go to Miranda.
MIRANDA: Well, the normal procedure is to negotiate with the perpetrator. Her head is spinning. She looks at Carson.
CARSON: Let's take stock. We've got a picture of where he hid the family, and recordings of his calls
MIRANDA: That's right! We can send them to our experts for analysis.
CARSON: ( to Ambassador Han ) Same with his fingerprints. But that means we need high-quality image and data transmission. We can piss away ten minutes coptering this shit to our offices in Westwood, or we can use your surveillance equipment.
COLONEL LEE: There is no surveillance equipment. This is a diplomatic facility
CARSON: You want to play games, fine. He turns to go. Ambassador Han turns to Colonel Lee.
AMBASSADOR HAN: Take them upstairs.
CARSON: South Korean Consulate's just down the street want to take a listen? Colonel Lee pulls the phones away from him. Carson takes the page with the fingerprints from Sabatini. The Espionage Agents back away from her and Javal's hand.
CARSON: ( continuing; re hand ) Shitcan that thing, will you?! She looks around. Then, shrugging, she tosses it into a wastepaper basket.
CARSON: ( continuing; to Colonel Lee ) Got a digital scanner?
COLONEL LEE: ( looks equipment over ) You might want to drop a few bucks at Radio Shack and get with the decade. ( into radio ) Dave get in here. Bring your computer, a city map, and the tapes of the ransom calls.
CARSON: ( looks equipment over ) You might want to drop a few bucks at Radio Shack and get with the decade. ( into radio ) Dave get in here. Bring your computer, a city map, and the tapes of the ransom calls.
MIRANDA: ( to Colonel Lee ) Colonel, you saw the perp. Describe him to the Ambassador, see if it's anyone he knows. Colonel Lee begrudgingly obliges. Carson dials a phone.
CARSON: ( into phone ) This is Carson in L.A. There's a set of prints coming over. Narrow the search criteria: Male, thirties, Caucasian. French, Belgian, Swiss, maybe Canadian. Try kidnappers and bombers first. We need an answer in fifteen minutes.
FINGERPRINT TECH: ( into phone ) That yellow air out there finally rot your brain?! It's impossible!
CARSON: ( to Walther ) We got one of the best sound guys right here in town. ( into phone ) Newman in Audio Analysis.
WIDER: Dave comes into the room.
DAVE: He quit, couple weeks ago. Opened a bed and breakfast in Wyoming. Carson looks at Miranda and hangs up the phone.
DAVE: ( continuing; looks around ) Damn. they get HBO? I'd sure like to see the fight tonight.
CARSON: Get those tapes transferred to a sound guy. We need ambient and background analysis, the whole Enchilada you saying that because I'm Mexican?
DAVE: Enchilada you saying that because I'm Mexican?
CARSON: No. 'cause you're fat.
MIRANDA: ( picks up Javal's fax ) Photo enhancement. Isn't there some amazing tech with the LAPD
DAVE: Bronsky. Transferred to Seattle PD a month ago.
CARSON: Jesus H. Christ.
SABATINI: I'd send it to Langley. Let the CIA earn their keep.
CARSON: Do it. Carson tosses Javal's bloody, unlabeled prescription bottle to Miranda. She looks it over, runs her finger inside, tastes the dust on her fingertip.
MIRANDA: Given his behavior, this orange residue. I'd say Desoxyn, 25 mg. Any significance?
CARSON: Any significance?
MIRANDA: It's consistent with the lone wolf scenario: A handful of these is pure bravery-in-a-bottle, 'til the psychosis and paranoia kick in. We could check pharmacy records, on the remote chance he got them legally. if we had a couple of weeks, that is.
CARSON: ( to Sabatini ) Get the Bureau on it.
MIRANDA: Forget it. It's a waste of manpower.
CARSON: Look, goddammit, you start skipping no-chance-in-hell leads, we can all quit and go to the beach right now. Sabatini looks at them which will it be? Miranda frowns and nods her okay, then spreads the L.A. map out on the table.
CARSON: ( continuing ) He grabbed the family at 8:30. The last certain visual we had was just before his van went into the alley on La Cienega at 8:42. He called the Consulate at 9:30.
MIRANDA: That gives him about fifty minutes to get to his location, move and secure the hostages, and activate his time bomb.
CARSON: He probably waited a while to pad the time he wanted us know the family was still alive. .So these crazy bastards wouldn't throw a premature shit hemorrhage, but he didn't want to call too soon, either. I say they're within 15 to 20 minutes, via surface streets, of where we last saw them. He draws a circle on the city map: Beverly Hills to downtown, Hollywood to Inglewood.
MIRANDA: The most densely-populated part of the L.A. basin. This narrows it down to about 200,000 dwellings. A beat while this sinks in.
MIRANDA: ( continuing ) He was traveling west
CARSON: Bet he doubled back.
MIRANDA: C'mon, that's total conjecture
SABATINI: ( re Carson ) I'd trust his instincts when dealing with maniacs. He is deeply You're telling me?
MIRANDA: You're telling me?
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) They say the death of the Premier's niece and her family would justify immediate retaliation.
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) Are they out of their fuckin' minds?! What kind of retaliation? Everyone in the room looks at one another.
CIA CHIEF: They're threatening to pull a Saddam Hussein: remember the Scuds he lobbed at Jerusalem during Desert Storm? They're talking about firing a missile into Los Angeles
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) A goddamn WHAT??
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER: Best guess is an AS-15, medium-range cruise their version of our Tomahawk, launched from offshore.
VICE PRESIDENT: Still, for their purposes it's perfect: Hit somewhere in L.A., take out a city block or two.
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) I don't believe I'm hearing this! ( beat ) So if we know it's coming, we can knock it out of the fuckin' sky!
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) You're saying we got all this lousy hardware and can't stop one goddamn missile?? Everyone's silence answers his question.
PRESIDENT: ( continuing; thru video link ) I want an immediate search for all ships within range.
FBI CHIEF: We better inform the other leaders, stall on the Summit
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) There's no reason to panic yet they can't launch until after the family's confirmed dead!
CIA CHIEF: Afraid that's not the case. The Intelligence Officer illustrates his explanation with FOOTAGE and DIAGRAMS on a nearby COMPUTER SCREEN:
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER: The North Korean Premier holds what we call a "Brinksman Switch." He's able to destroy a missile in flight, right up to the moment before it achieves its target.
CIA CHIEF: Our Op says they've timed their retaliation to hit right after 5:00.
FBI CHIEF: And if the family turns up okay, they'll just make it self-destruct.
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) Shit! I really don't need this today!
VICE PRESIDENT: We're forgetting one thing here: the family. Intelligence is sure the North will abort their attack if Mrs. Han and her kids are safely returned?
CIA CHIEF: Absolutely. Their whole game depends on claiming a legitimate provocation.
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) I'd like to turn 'em into a radioactive parking lot.
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) Believe me, the North drops one in my fuckin' city, I'm dropping ten in theirs. Get some bombers in the air. And don't tell me any more bad news!
ROBBINS: ( into radio ) .Phone company decal's a fake. DMV says the van was purchased a week ago from a private party in Santa Monica. I called 'em; they said the guy paid cash, and he fits our boy's description. Signed the name "Douglas McArthur" to the Transfer of Title.
CARSON: ( into radio ) ( to Miranda ) He signed the name of the Allied Commander during the Korean War. Maybe he was a political.
MIRANDA: No. The phony ice cream truck, the booby-trapped chairs. he could've done it without half that stuff. But this was going to be the score of a lifetime. he was showing off.
CARSON: ( to Dave ) Who's got those kinds of skills: Electronics, vehicle customizing, computers, explosives?
DAVE: Military. Cop, maybe. Shit, your average high-school student if they're so inclined. My guess is our perp used off-the-shelf equipment for everything except the C-4, and that's only slightly harder to get than crack or heroin, if you know who to ask.
BOBBI: This is Bobbi Marchfelder, your Eye in the Sky. back to you, Brent. The red light on the camera goes off. Bobbi turns to the Pilot.
BOBBI: ( continuing; furious ) Hey, dickhead. I was backlit that entire segment! ( as if to a child ) Keep. the sun. to my left!! The Cameraman and the Pilot sigh at each other.
BOBBI: ( continuing ) What's new on the kidnapping rumor?
CAMERAMAN: Nada. Total news blackout.
BOBBI: Go back over the hill.
NEWS PILOT: We got the valley traffic report in Sig alert..!" I'll improvise! She takes an industrial-sized bottle of Mylanta out of her purse. It's fitted with a water-bottle DRINKING SPOUT. She takes a huge swig and grimaces.
BOBBI: "Stalled vehicle! One lane closed! Sig alert..!" I'll improvise! She takes an industrial-sized bottle of Mylanta out of her purse. It's fitted with a water-bottle DRINKING SPOUT. She takes a huge swig and grimaces.
BOBBI: ( continuing; to Cameraman ) What are you lookin' at? I was the morning anchor in Houston! And I'm one break away from getting out of this stupid fuckin' whirlybird!
JOY: Why us?
MRS. HAN: You heard him for money.
JOY: What if something goes wrong?
MRS. HAN: ( firmly ) It won't.
CARSON: I'm going to the kidnapping site.
MIRANDA: I want to talk to the witnesses. Colonel Lee also heads for the door. Carson looks at him.
CARSON: Great, we'll hire a bus. They leave. Dave, meanwhile, paces, phone in hand.
DAVE: ( into phone ) .I know it's privileged information, goddammit! Lemme talk to a supervisor. You are a supervisor. Lemme talk to your goddamn supervisor. I told you, I'm with the FBI. ( to Sabatini ) Cellular company says he was using a phone with a cloned number.
SABATINI: Big surprise. Have 'em send a list of the numbers called on the account.
DAVE: That's what I'm trying to get. They're saying I need a subpoena. Don't put me on hold. Don't. I'm listening to Michael fuckin' Walther! Get on the horn to Justice and deal with this!
SABATINI: Walther! Get on the horn to Justice and deal with this!
ROBBINS: ( into radio ) A lot of the components are made by the same manufacturer a car security company.
NEW ANGLE: Carson uncovers the bodies of the Driver and the Motorist, lying on the sidewalk. He grimaces. Colonel Lee does not. Miranda wants to look, but Carson drops the cover. She picks it up, then turns away in horror. A young BLACK COP crosses to them. He's holding a plastic bag with a spent shotgun shell in it.
YOUNG COP: Inspector! Look at this. "Dragon's Breath..?"
CARSON: Twelve-gauge shell filled with magnesium and ignition powder. Shit's worse than napalm Geneva Convention outlawed it for warfare.
MIRANDA: Then how did he get it?
CARSON: Easy you can buy 'em mail order. Where's the Consulate's car?
YOUNG COP: ( beat ) Uh. apparently it was stolen.
COLONEL LEE: Stolen!? What is it with you What's this "you people" shit?
YOUNG COP: ( angry ) What's this "you people" shit?
CARSON: ( to Colonel Lee ) Shut up!
MIRANDA: ( aside; to Young Cop ) He means all of us "you people."
CARSON: ( to Young Cop ) Find it! How many bulletproof Mercedes could be cruising around You'd be surprised.
YOUNG COP: You'd be surprised.
CARSON: I hate this fuckin' town.
CARSON: Wasted trip: Witnesses say he was working alone, and he was a vicious son of a bitch. Old news.
COLONEL LEE: ( to Ambassador Han ) And our car was stolen.
AMBASSADOR HAN: I felt safer when I was the Ambassador to Libya.
SABATINI: Image enhancements came back.
CARSON: We going steady?
SABATINI: The sun position tells us the windows are facing northeast. Here's the best look at the glass on the prints hanging in the background. There's a reflection of a reflection, out on the street: the corner of a billboard.
CARSON: Looks like the wheel of a car.
MIRANDA: We talked about these billboards, when we were car shopping! Four- door. they make a wagon, too. Something Japanese. God, what was it? Toyota. Mazda. Honda. You thought it had no character.
CARSON: I thought that about all of them. C'mon, think, dammit!!
MIRANDA: You think!! You were there, too! They're stumped, and bitterly frustrated. To Sabatini:
CARSON: Call the outdoor advertising companies. Get the location of all the billboards for Japanese cars within our search parameters. Meanwhile, Dave and Robbins are calling car alarm shops:
DAVE: ( into phone ) .Peerless Auto Security. We need to know whether you've sold a large quantity of these components to any one customer, or whether you'd had any stolen recently.
OPERATIVE: ( urgently; into device ) .Missile heading to L.A. has a Kipchak Warhead! Repeat: missile is Kipchak equipped! It was switched by order of A GUNSHOT rings out ( OS ), and the Operative's chest EXPLODES in blood. He pitches forward. but presses the "transmit" button on the uplink device before dying. On screen it says UPLINKING. ( without scrambling ). then another GUNSHOT destroys it. Angry, General Kai steps INTO FRAME and kicks the Operative over with his foot.
MRS. HAN: He asked you if you had to go. The family becomes aware of a shrill SOUND, ( OS ), distant at first, but growing increasingly louder. The sound-level meters all begin to creep upward.
JOY: Oh, my God. The meters are hovering just below the red.
SAM: pivots his head and looks at the tiny microphone, no bigger than a pencil eraser, attached neatly to the headrest. He begins chewing his wad of GUM. leans in toward the microphone, his head obscuring what he's doing. He moves back and we see he's SEALED the front of the mic with a small piece of the gum. And his meter drops to zero.
WIDER: Sam tilts his head forward and bends his wrist upward so he can get the rest of the gum out of his mouth. Then, while keeping pressure on the armrest with his elbow, he moves his hand over to Mrs. Han. They can't quite reach each other. He FLICKS the piece of gum and she catches it. Meanwhile, the NOISE increases. The two meters peak into the red. the yellow WARNING LIGHT begins to flash. Mrs. Han quickly puts the gum in her mouth, bites it in half, and cautiously passes the remainder over to Joy. Joy puts the gum in her mouth. She tries to push it over her mic, but her hair is in the way. She shakes her head; some hair strands remain, but she covers the mic just as the Gardeners' noise reaches a CRESCENDO. All three sound meters sit pinned to zero. The yellow light stops flashing. Sam, sweating, looks at his mother and sister. and starts laughing. They join him: a celebration for a small victory.
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) So what the hell does "Kipchak" mean?
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER: Uh, it's a code name. for weapons using the Yersinia Pestis bacillus. He really doesn't want to be the one telling the President about this.
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER: ( continuing ) Kipchaks were Asian nomads. In 1347 they attacked a Genoese fort, and catapulted infected corpses over the walls. The Genoese who survived carried the disease back to Europe. and it killed half the population.
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) Get to the goddamn point, Major. The Intelligence Officer looks at the CIA Chief.
CIA CHIEF: Seems the missile is armed with a warhead carrying the Pneumonic The President goes nuts.
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) The Black Plague?! Every time I talk to you fuckin' guys it gets worse! What happened to this "limited retaliation" shit?
CIA CHIEF: We think one of the Hard-liners switched the warhead without the Premier's knowledge. But he's not about to take our word for it, and he's too weak to risk the humiliation of backing down.
PRESIDENT: ( incredulous; thru video link ) They use a biological weapon on American soil, they have to know we'll respond!
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) What the hell are we doing in L.A.?
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) All right. Assuming the worst. What'll happen? The Intelligence Officer demonstrates with another of his
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER: The warhead vents the plague bacteria above the target area, infecting about 50,000 people. First symptoms are vomiting, lymph nodes become swollen; temperature rises to 105ƒ. Victims turn deep purple from lung hemorrhaging, usually die the same day. There are treatments streptomycin and tetracyclines but we'd be overwhelmed by the numbers and its extreme contagiousness.
CIA CHIEF: We could have 500,000 infected in a week, who knows how many after that. Long beat as everyone tries to contemplate the unthinkable.
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) I'm gonna toast those fuckers! Have the Summit leaders been warned?
FBI CHIEF: Yes, sir. no one's landing in L.A. 'til we give the all-clear.
PRESIDENT: ( thru video link ) And you're sure it's safe if we can get 'em to destroy the missile in The bacteria can't survive the heat of an explosion.
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER: The bacteria can't survive the heat of an explosion.
CIA CHIEF: I suggest none of this go any further not even to the agents working to find the family. Word leaks out to a city of 12 million people there's rocket full of the Plague coming at 'em, you'll create a panic of biblical proportions.
CARSON: Say what?
COLONEL LEE: Perhaps someone will decide it is foolish to incur the wrath of North Yeah, the U.S. is behind the whole thing. And we're knocking our heads, trying to find your people, just for Let's grab a few beers, kick back 'til five o'clock rolls by. Then maybe we can have a war over it. I think that's a great idea, seeing as how you fuckers have needed your clocks cleaned for fifty years now!
CARSON: ( crosses to Colonel Lee ) Yeah, the U.S. is behind the whole thing. And we're knocking our heads, trying to find your people, just for Let's grab a few beers, kick back 'til five o'clock rolls by. Then maybe we can have a war over it. I think that's a great idea, seeing as how you fuckers have needed your clocks cleaned for fifty years now!
WALTHER: Let's grab a few beers, kick back 'til five o'clock rolls by. Then maybe we can have a war over it. I think that's a great idea, seeing as how you fuckers have needed your clocks cleaned for fifty years now!
CARSON: Let's grab a few beers, kick back 'til five o'clock rolls by. Then maybe we can have a war over it. I think that's a great idea, seeing as how you fuckers have needed your clocks cleaned for fifty years now!
COLONEL LEE: ( gets up ) Why wait until five? Ambassador Han and Walther keep Carson and Colonel Lee from going at each other.
MIRANDA: ( sotto ) Christ, you're self-indulgent! There's nothing but anger and cynicism left inside you, so they're all you can express any more. No wonder everyone in the Bureau thinks you're such a nutcase!
CARSON: Hey, I'm not the only one with a rep around the office. "Dr. Knoll-It- You've been dying to tell me that. She walks away. Carson immediately regrets saying it.
MIRANDA: ( hurt ) You've been dying to tell me that. She walks away. Carson immediately regrets saying it.
CARSON: ( to himself ) EXT. STREETS OF LOS ANGELES - VARIOUS ANGLES - DAY LAPD cruisers squeeze through the crowded streets, fanning out through the various parties around town. COPS walk through the crowds with copies of the picture Javal faxed, and photos of the Han family and Lisa.
ROBBINS: ( into phone ) .Yeah, Peerless Auto Security. fine. get your manager. He puts the receiver down, hits the speakerbox button and the mute button. He crosses to Dave's desk to grab some papers. We can hear the CONVERSATION at the alarm shop:
INSTALLER #2: Jerry's outta here!
INSTALLER #1: Some cop's asking if we sold a bunch of Peerless parts.
INSTALLER #2: Talk to Javal!
INSTALLER #1: Javal's off today.
INSTALLER #3: Dude's off a lot.
CARSON: Everyone shut up! Guy on vacation, the Canadian
CARSON: ( into phone ) Six foot, sandy hair, spooky eyes?
CARSON: ( into phone ) I need a full name, address, anything you got!
NEW ANGLE: One of the Korean Espionage Agents answers a RINGING phone on Colonel Lee's desk, listens, then hits the hold button.
ESPIONAGE AGENT: Inspector Carson, extension 666.
CARSON: That's appropriate. In 30 seconds you're gonna give me Paul Javal's shoe size. Carson hurries over, grabs the phone. We SEE him punch the button for x666.
CARSON: ( continuing; into phone ) EXT. FEDERAL BUILDING, WESTWOOD - ESTABLISHING - DAY Edwards, Sound Lab.
EDWARDS: ( into phone ) Ambient background sound is normal city stuff, but there's a distinct echo pattern. Your people are in or near a high-rise that's at least eight floors tall. And there are other high-rises nearby.
EDWARDS: ( into phone ) No way to extrapolate that from the sample you gave us. ( refers to notes ) One more thing: There's an emergency siren approaching at 17 seconds into the second call, passing the location at 33.5 seconds.
CARSON: Okay high-rises in our search area. Eight stories or higher.
MIRANDA: Downtown, Century City, Westwood corridor, Museum Row, Mid- Wilshire. North of Sunset Strip there's a few.
CARSON: Sabatini! What about that billboard?
SABATINI: Nothing yet! Everyone's left their goddamn offices already!
CARSON: ( to Robbins ) LAPD will have a record of all emergency vehicles running Code 3 at 9:32 AM. Get their starting point and their destination.
MIRANDA: And have them narrow their foot- searches to areas around high-rises.
CARSON: ( to Dave ) Where's that fuckin' address?!
DAVE: I'm still holdin'! Meanwhile, we hear the high-pitched whine as Dave's MODEM connects with another computer. Dave's fingers fly across the keyboard, and in a moment, a PICTURE of Javal appears: hair longer, bearded. but the eyes are unmistakable.
DAVE: ( continuing ) He's on our hit parade. Interpol passed us his records when he entered the country. ( reads ) French by birth. looks like a total Isn't that redundant?
SABATINI: Isn't that redundant?
DAVE: ( reads from computer ) Raised in Quebec. Moved to Europe; served some short stretches, petty shit. arrested for kidnapping, no conviction. Did four years in France for blowing bank vaults. Moved to U.S. last year. Clean since then.
CARSON: Get his Driver's License number; Social; bank accounts; charge cards; club memberships. find out what movies he rented. Get whoever's closest to the Auto Shop to get in there, interview everybody.
MIRANDA: This sure was a ballsy move for a car-alarm installer.
CARSON: Hey, he watched the news. Everyone knows the U.S. will do anything to avoid trouble with a mad-dog country. They turn, noticing that Ambassador Han has overheard.
MIRANDA: Quit apologizing for me!
CARSON: Quit apologizing for me!
MIRANDA: Quit giving me reasons to!
AMBASSADOR HAN: ( to Carson ) On occasion, my wife has been known to kick my ankle under the table. Miranda gives Carson a "your turn to be gracious" look.
CARSON: Sounds like her aim's a little low. Not exactly what Miranda was hoping for. Dave hands Carson a piece of paper.
DAVE: Address, according to the Auto Shop.
CARSON: ( looks at paper ) Apartment 1060! He's in a high-rise! Sabatini you're with us. ( off Robbins' disappointed look ) She's got the field experience. Carson and Miranda grab their jackets, then she stops.
MIRANDA: There still could be accomplices. If there are, they'll hear us in the helicopter. Carson looks again at the address.
CARSON: There's a TV station a couple blocks away. We'll land on their pad. K-EYE. Clear it with 'em. Have a SWAT team assemble, but tell 'em to hang back unless we need 'em.
CARSON: Oh, great, the media. It's the goddamn traffic girl!
MIRANDA: Traffic person.
BOBBI: Where are you going?
CARSON: We can't get into that right now.
BOBBI: Hey, you expect to use my station's facilities and not even tell us Carson grabs the ENG camera, pops the videotape out of it and crushes the tape.
MIRANDA: ( to Bobbi ) ( looks Miranda over ) What the fuck are you, the Barbie Corporate Ass-Lick model? Miranda is utterly aghast. She reaches under Carson's jacket and takes the handcuffs off his shoulder rig. She grabs Bobbi by the arm and gets her in a half-Nelson.
BOBBI: ( looks Miranda over ) What the fuck are you, the Barbie Corporate Ass-Lick model? Miranda is utterly aghast. She reaches under Carson's jacket and takes the handcuffs off his shoulder rig. She grabs Bobbi by the arm and gets her in a half-Nelson.
MIRANDA: Guess what, Sister. you're about to spend the next five years in a penitentiary for interfering with a federal investigation. The STATION MANAGER comes running out of the building.
STATION MANAGER: Bobbi! I promised we'd respect their news blackout!
BOBBI: ( to herself ) Figures. you dickless wonder. Bobbi wriggles out of Miranda's grasp. Carson looks at his wife, who's still fuming, and smiles to himself. The Station Manager hands Carson the keys to his Lexus.
STATION MANAGER: I get an exclusive later, right?
CARSON: This works out, I'll play the fuckin' banjo for you.
CARSON: We're hoofing it. Miranda and Colonel Lee immediately get out of the car and run off, leaving Sabatini to contend with it.
SABATINI: ( pissed ) 'She's got the field experience'. To park the fuckin' car!
CARSON: ( pulls out his i.d. ) Whoa. FBI..! They lower their weapons.
CARSON: ( continuing ) How the hell you get here so fast?
CARSON: Terrific. Who else is here?
CARSON: Tell 'em to be cool. We're going up. Give me your master key.
WOMAN: What the fuck..! Her friend sits up. Miranda holds her finger to her lips and shows them her FBI shield.
MIRANDA: Carson cranks open their window and steps out onto the foot- wide, ornamental balcony.
CARSON: ( to Miranda ) Wait here. She begins to protest. He shoots her a look that silences her.
CARSON: ( into radio ) I'm in. It's empty, but sit tight while I look around. Carson cautiously approaches the cardboard boxes.
MIRANDA: I like what you've done with the INT. MIMOSA APARTMENTS - HALLWAY - DAY The elevator DINGS. Sabatini comes out, H&K MP-5 in hand. SWAT Team #2, standing on the far side of the hallway with Colonel Lee, sees her machine pistol and takes aim.
COLONEL LEE: Colonel Lee walks over to Sabatini.
SABATINI: Where's Carson?
COLONEL LEE: Sabatini starts down the hall. Colonel Lee stays where he is.
CARSON: Too late. The front door opens.. Carson crouches behind the big, heavy refrigerator door. As the middle flower pot EXPLODES. It's a shrapnel bomb: it spews thousands of tiny carpet tacks 360 degrees around room. Sabatini is HIT full on she falls backwards into the hall.
NO!: Too late. The front door opens.. Carson crouches behind the big, heavy refrigerator door. As the middle flower pot EXPLODES. It's a shrapnel bomb: it spews thousands of tiny carpet tacks 360 degrees around room. Sabatini is HIT full on she falls backwards into the hall.
CARSON: I said keep everyone back!! He punches Colonel Lee in the jaw. Colonel Lee slams against the wall, then comes back at Carson, hitting him in the throat.
MIRANDA: Stop it! Miranda and SWAT Team #2 pull them apart.
CARSON: ( to Colonel Lee ) Get out of my sight. He kneels next to Sabatini, and closes her eyes.
BOBBI: ( into phone ) ( thru phone ) You dated the Mayor, right?
BOBBI: ( sighs; into phone ) You need a traffic ticket fixed?
CARSON: ( into radio ) What's the status?
CARSON: ( into radio ) Hurry it the hell up. He glances over at Miranda. After a beat:
CARSON: ( continuing ) I should've known she'd come up.
MIRANDA: "Should've." Shit, there's a familiar word. ( long beat ) That day. I was there soon enough. We should've rushed 'em, before they could finish setting up.
CARSON: "Should've." Shit, there's a familiar word. ( long beat ) That day. I was there soon enough. We should've rushed 'em, before they could finish setting up.
MIRANDA: The Bureau never would've let you. They want it by the book: talk them Carson looks out the window, not hearing a word she says.
CARSON: Twelve bodies only the hostages.
MIRANDA: You were a greenhorn. It wasn't your decision. You can't keep living as such a raw nerve, never sleeping
CARSON: Those kids were ten years old! ( sotto ) Same age as the Han boy. He turns away. She takes his hand.
CARSON: C'mon! Who's pulling Javal's bank records? What about cross-referencing possible aliases? We got 33 minutes! Hearing Beach Boys MUSIC on the TV's and radios on the surveillance console, Carson angrily punches them all off. Suddenly, Miranda looks at him:
MIRANDA: Camry! The billboard! Toyota Camry! Where are the numbers for the outdoor ad companies?
ROBBINS: Parker Center's making those calls.
BOBBI: Turn the fuckin' camera on! DO IT!!
CAMERAMAN: Maybe it's true. probably is true. That's why they got a news blackout!
BOBBI: I'll rip your miserable eyeballs out! NEWS IS OUR FUCKIN' JOB!! He sighs and turns the CAMERA on.
BOBBI: ( on TV ) .A warning was radioed to U.S. Intelligence that a biological weapon, allegedly containing the deadly Pneumonic Plague, is approaching Los Angeles. While unconfirmed, the President and other leaders are all late in arriving.
DAVE: Finally got the call list from Javal's phone. Most aren't his; they're from the legit user who didn't know his number was cloned.
CARSON: Go to the bottom of the list, work back through the last 12 hours. Dave jumps to the bottom, points at a number.
DAVE: Here's the call to the Consulate
CARSON: Wait. go back. the one at seven this morning. Dave highlights a number: 213-965-5666.
WIDER: Carson glances over at the telephone on Colonel Lee's desk.
CARSON: Get down! Colonel Lee STRAFES the room and backs toward the door. The BULLETS trace a line across the room. One of the North Korean Espionage Agents is HIT. He slams against the console. Carson tackles Ambassador Han and shoves him onto the floor, while popping off several ROUNDS in Colonel Lee's direction. Robbins also dives for cover, pushing Walther down first. Robbins takes a BULLET in the shoulder. Miranda is HIT. The impact tumbles her over the desk.
CARSON: ( continuing )
MIRANDA!: Colonel Lee, still FIRING, slips out the door. Gunsmoke hangs in the air as Carson scrambles to Miranda. Several PHONES have begun ringing. No one notices them. Dave never moved he sits hunched over, clutching his notebook computer, muttering the HAIL MARY. Carson rolls Miranda over. She's got a large, scorched bullet hole in the front of her blouse. Carson tears her blouse open. She's wearing a kelvar vest under it, and the slug is mushroomed against the vest. She awakens, GASPS and starts swinging her fists at him. Carson is overwhelmed with relief. Then he notices Robbins, bleeding profusely, propped against the wall next to Walther. Walther is dead shot in the head. OS, we hear several SPURTS of machine gun fire, and a car ENGINE roaring to life. Miranda looks at Carson.
MIRANDA: EXT. WILSHIRE BLVD - DAY The city's reaction to Bobbi's announcement is immediate and severe. It makes the panic during the '92 riots look like a drive in the country.
CARSON: Get the fuck out of here! Ambassador Han responds by putting on his seat belt. Carson sighs and tears out of the driveway.
CARSON: Shit, it's like a Godzilla movie out Then he HEARS, on a nearby car's FM RADIO:
CARSON: ( into radio ) ( thru radio ) I heard. I'm in the copter.
CARSON: ( into radio ) I want you to get out of here.
MIRANDA: ( into radio ) Shut up and keep your eyes on the road. That's my goddamn car. ( beat; into radio ) Dave? You staying on top of the INT. NORTH KOREAN CONSULATE - SURVEILLANCE ROOM - DAY Sweating, Dave is watching the ACTION outside on a TV while hurriedly bandaging Robbins' shoulder with some torn cloth. He grabs for the two-way and we realize he's panicking.
DAVE: ( into radio ) I can't. My kids.
DAVE: ( into radio ) EXT. SKY OVER LOS ANGELES - ( AERIAL SHOT ) - DAY Several large military helicopters approach troop contingents from Pendleton and Ft. Irwin. The big CH-54 dual-rotor copters set down and offload MARINES and ARMY INFANTRY. Others, like Apache Gunship combat copters and Hueys, begin to follow the pursuit. They join the police and TV copters, and it looks like the Ride of the Valkyries.
BOBBI: Don't lose the Benz, moron. pull back. show the other copters around us. this is fuckin' great.
CARSON: .The Colonel hired Javal, made it look like he was working alone. Then he made sure Javal got killed, so we'd never find your family and they'd have an excuse to drop their bomb. But what's in it for 'em?
AMBASSADOR HAN: There are men in my government whose power depends on North Korea staying as it is: Socialist, repressive, isolated from the world. They'll resort to anything, even war, to keep it that way. They have the Hitler Syndrome: if their country cannot exist the way they want it, they would rather see it destroyed.
CARSON: ( into radio ) Negative his car's armored! And we need the bastard alive!!
VREELAND: ( to Pilot ) Shit! Pull back!
BOBBI: ( to TV camera ) Jesus fuckin' God!!! ( beat; smiles ) Uh, I think we're gonna set down now. Back to you, Brent.
VREELAND: ( into radio ) Out of the air, or retreat 7,000 meters from target vehicle! The copters set down in parking lots, rooftops, wherever. Armed troops climb out to keep PANICKED MOBS from swarming them in an attempt to leave the city.
JOY: I always hated that guy.
CARSON: One of yours? What the hell do you need heat- seeking rockets for in L.A.?
AMBASSADOR HAN: There could be another riot.
CARSON: ( shakes his head ) And they call me Mr. Overkill. ( into radio ) Dave, what do you know about. He looks at Han.
AMBASSADOR HAN: ( into radio ) Strela-2 anti-aircraft rockets?
CARSON: ( into radio ) Strela-2 anti-aircraft rockets?
DAVE: ( into radio ) I'm with ya. Strela-2. Perenosniy zenitniy raketniy kompleks. Russian factory index 9K-32-M2
MIRANDA: ( into radio ) Stay back. LAPD's putting up a EXT. SANTA MONICA FREEWAY - DAY Several police cars clear a path for two huge, yellow DWP BULLDOZERS borrowed from a construction cite. They rumble up onto the eastbound freeway, turn, and then stop, side by side, facing oncoming traffic. They lower their huge front shovels to create a roadblock.
WIDER: The copter has landed behind an AM-PM Minimart/gas station. Bobbi, her Pilot and her Cameraman turn when they hear a KNOCKING on the windshield of their copter. Oblivious to the panic on the streets, a raggedy HOMELESS GUY stands with a spray bottle, wanting to wash the windows on the copter. Bobbi gulps some Mylanta and waves him away:
BOBBI: Save it for someone who gives a EXT. STREETS OF LOS ANGELES - VARIOUS ANGLES - DAY All of the celebration locales are trampled, abandoned messes. So much for "Fun Fun Fun" and L.A. putting on its best. MOBS make panicked runs on the stock in grocery, drug and hardware stores. Violence breaks out in the aisles and parking PEOPLE in their homes work feverishly to seal their doors and windows against the plague with tape, towels, plastic.
CARSON: That Kraut-mobile have any weaknesses you'd like to tell me about?
AMBASSADOR HAN: I don't think so they said it was solid as a rock.
CARSON: ( looks at his crumpled car ) No shit. As Carson moves forward, Colonel Lee's window opens enough to allow the barrel of his AMD-74 machine gun to poke through. Carson shoves Ambassador Han's head down and ducks. Colonel Lee STRAFES the Volvo. Carson looks up just in time to see. A pickup truck, ahead, stalled on the shoulder. Carson slams on the brakes, but it's too late. The Volvo CRASHES headfirst into the back of the truck. The Volvo's AIRBAGS deploy, stopping Carson and Ambassador Han from plowing into the dashboard. After a beat:
AMBASSADOR HAN: ( dazed ) I can't believe I'm still alive.
CARSON: This were a Hyundai you wouldn't be. Ambassador Han looks at Carson, wondering if he's putting him on. The car is a twisted mess. Carson can't get the door open.
CARSON: Get me out of here. They pry his door open with a crowbar. Carson climbs onto the roof of his car. Grimacing from pain, he looks around.
CARSON: ( continuing; into radio ) Anybody see him?
CARSON: ( into radio ) Dave. You're sure those rockets are heat-seeking?
CARSON: ( into radio ) Just keep working your leads. Carson climbs into the back of the ambulance.
CARSON: ( into radio ) This is Carson. I need a copter.
BOBBI: Get this fuckin' thing in the air! Out! Not enough room for four.
CAMERAMAN: ( as they TAKE OFF ) What am I supposed to do when the plague comes, hold my breath?
MIRANDA: ( into radio ) Switch to a secure channel. ( flips a switch ) What on earth are you thinking?
MIRANDA: ( into radio ) Pete, you haven't gone. suicidal or anything on me, have you?
CARSON: You?! I wanted a police copter!
PILOT: Just tell me what to do. I flew two tours in 'Nam.
BOBBI: And he doesn't go unless I go!
CARSON: CUT TO: EXT. NEWS COPTER - ( AERIAL SHOT ) - DAY The door opens and Bobbi comes TUMBLING out of it!
WIDER: They're hovering above the roof of a high-rise hotel downtown. Bobbi lands with a huge SPLASH in the rooftop swimming pool.
BOBBI: surfaces, sputtering and screaming:
BOBBI: I'm a respected electronic journalist, you fuckin' prick!! Carson replies by tossing her industrial-sized bottle of Mylanta out after her.
CARSON: ( into radio ) Got 'im looks like he's headed for the 101.
CARSON: ( to Pilot ) Pull hard to the left, on my He braces himself on door jamb. Below, Colonel Lee's head pokes up from the sunroof.
CARSON: The Pilot swings the helicopter in the other direction, and the rocket FOLLOWS the flare, streaking past the helicopter. A few seconds later, the rocket EXPLODES in midair behind them.
MIRANDA: You fucking lunatic!!
PILOT: Hope you got more flares than he's got rockets.
VARIOUS ANGLES: As Miranda comes down from the sign. Carson climbs up the embankment from Sixth Street to the 101. The downed L.A. Cop waves as a pair of ambulances drive up, lights flashing and sirens WAILING. Carson runs alongside one of the ambulances, pulling the driver's door open before it's stopped. The Paramedic is the one who helped him and Ambassador Han out of the Volvo. Carson yanks him out of his ambulance.
MIRANDA: INT. AMBULANCE - ( MOVING SHOT ) - DAY Carson jumps in. Miranda climbs in the passenger's side. As he peels away, Miranda smacks Carson on the head.
MIRANDA: You're completely deranged! Playing chicken with rockets!
CARSON: Well, what the hell were you doing out there?
CARSON: Oh, for Christ's sake. Hold on! Lights and SIRENS going, they rush into the 110/101 interchange. Ahead, Colonel Lee's Mercedes is driving through the cars that are parting like the Red Sea for him.
MIRANDA: Even if we can pry him out with. Twelve minutes to go, I doubt he'll be very cooperative.
CARSON: I'll just use my outstanding people Carson glances up at the sign showing the upcoming exit: Glendale Blvd - Echo Park. A thought is forming.
CARSON: ( continuing; to Ambassador Han ) That car's like a rock, right?
CLOSER: Carson races over to grab Colonel Lee, who is slogging out of the lake. There is a glint of bright steel. and Colonel Lee SLASHES at Carson with a knife. Carson moves aside. but the knife SLICES across his upper arm. Carson falls backwards. Colonel Lee, on hands and knees, tries to crawl away. Suddenly, someone KICKS him in face, flipping him over. It's Miranda. Colonel Lee's knife goes flying. Carson, bleeding, piles onto Colonel Lee. Vreeland assists. Colonel Lee fights like mad to break free. Until Miranda JAMS her heel into his groin. He cries out.
MIRANDA: Ever hear of "fuck-me" pumps? Well, these are fuck you pumps! Where's the family? Surprised at his wife's new negotiating technique, Carson shoots a look at Vreeland. Vreeland grimaces.
DAVE: Holy shit Knoll-It-All's turned into Dirty Harriet! He turns as his MODEM squawks and another download comes in.
DAVE: ( continuing; into phone ) You're sure there were no accounts in the other names I gave you?
AMBASSADOR HAN: Let him up. Carson's not so sure, but they're completely surrounded by military and law enforcement personnel. He releases his grasp. Miranda removes her heel. Then, with lightning reflexes, Colonel Lee grabs Vreeland's Rock Island Arsenal Colt .45 Auto from its snap-holster.
COLONEL LEE: Carson dives back onto him. But he twists his arm around and PULLS the trigger with the muzzle underneath his own chin. Carson, Miranda and Ambassador Han are SPRAYED with his blood.
WIDER: Dumbfounded everybody looks at each other. Carson, dogged, kneels next to Colonel Lee's body and searches through his pockets, looking for something, anything.
CARSON: ( into radio ) INT. NORTH KOREAN CONSULATE - SURVEILLANCE ROOM - DAY Dave is looking at the TV, paying no attention to his INCLUDE COMPUTER as some bank records are being downloaded: faxed IMAGES of processed checks SCROLL down the screen.
INCLUDE COMPUTER: as some bank records are being downloaded: faxed IMAGES of processed checks SCROLL down the screen.
DAVE: ( numb; into radio ) Take a hint. We're screwed.
CLOSER: Just in time to glimpse the words "First & Last + Deposit" on one of the checks as it scrolls off the screen.
DAVE: fumbles to scroll back to the check.
DAVE: ( into radio ) Wait! One of Javal's alias accounts: check for an apartment rental!
CARSON: ( into radio ) .Have the Manager evacuate the complex. Find out which unit the family's in, but don't let anyone go in 'til we get there.
DAVE: ( into radio ) Private security's going around with PA's, and they set off the fire alarm. ( into phone ) Well, try callin' him again! ( into radio ) Manager's gone, and the Assistant can't find the key to get to the rental manifest. ( into phone ) Then kick the fuckin' door down!
MILTON: ( into phone ) I'll try him in his car again. During this, outside:
CARSON: "Fuck-you" pumps??
JOY: They must know we're here.
ALL: No answer.
JOY: Mother. Sam. They look over at her as she lights it. After a beat, Mrs. Han understands. She hesitates, then:
MRS. HAN: Do it. Joy drops the lighter to the floor, then swats it with her foot to Mrs. Han. She does the same, passing it to Sam, who's sitting closest to the window. With one eye on the VU movement meter, Sam kicks the lighter, sliding it across the carpet toward the curtains.
MILTON: It's a brown binder. Says "Rental Manifest." You can't miss it. They literally tear the office apart.
CARSON: ( into radio ) Apartment number would be real helpful, gang. Miranda points to a wisp of SMOKE above one of the towers.
MIRANDA: They come around, and spot the FIRE in the apartment's window. It is nine stories up, four stories below the top floor.
CARSON: Okay. work with me here! He grabs one of the refrigerator handles and pulls, but it won't come loose. Lisa cries out in frustration.
LISA: Hurry, please hurry. Carson spots Javal's toolbox. In it, he finds a socket set handle, which he levers in between the refrigerator handle and the door. He rips one handle loose, then the other. Carson turns his attention to the booby-trapped chairs. Lisa sits on the floor, frantically pulling her handcuffed hands around her feet so they're in front of her, then runs for the front door. Just as she reaches it:
CARSON: He grabs her before she opens the door. There's a small magnetic sensor at the top of the door jamb.
DON'T!: He grabs her before she opens the door. There's a small magnetic sensor at the top of the door jamb.
CARSON: ( continuing ) We have to go out the window.
MRS. HAN: Can't you disarm the bomb?
CARSON: Too risky. Let's concentrate on getting you out of here. He looks at the meters on the electronic units.
CARSON: ( continuing ) Sound detectors?
MRS. HAN: Sam covered them with chewing gum.
SAM: High-tech problem, low-tech solution. Carson looks at Sam, impressed, then peers under the chairs.
CARSON: Pressure sensors. Use 'em in convertibles: Bad guy sits on your seat, he sets the alarm off. These are rigged backwards get up, you set 'em off.
SAM: You a bomb expert?
CARSON: Nope. But I've had some car alarms in my day. For all the goddamn good they do. Carson looks around, thinking. He spots the roll of duct tape on the table, grabs it and unrolls a long piece.
CARSON: ( continuing; to Mrs. Han ) Slide your arm forward. Watch the meter. Keep the pressure on the armrest with your elbow. He wraps the armrest with tape, cinching it tight.
CARSON: ( continuing ) It'll squeeze the sensor, duplicate the weight of your arm. Okay. pick it up. They look at each other, scared. After a beat, she does. The meter JIGGLES. but stays in the black! Everyone sighs with relief. Carson repeats the process on her other armrest.
CARSON: ( continuing; to Sam ) Low-tech solution. ( to Mrs. Han ) Lean back. Carefully. Carson feels for the sensor in the seat, finding it buried under Mrs. Han's thighs. He runs a long piece of tape around the seat and wraps it tightly. He tries to lift Mrs. Han, but the meter moves to the red.
CARSON: ( to himself ) Nag, nag, nag. He wraps another piece of tape around the seat, and tries again to lift her. This time it works!
DAY: Time: 4:58. The Apache helicopter HOVERING outside is making an incredible racket. Carson is helping Joy get free of her chair. As she stands, the pieces of her hair stuck to the gum over the microphone head begin to PULL the gum away! Mrs. Han sees the meter heading for the red, and the yellow warning light flashing. She grabs Carson's arm. Carson quickly covers the mic. The meter drops to zero.
WIDER: The FIRE is spreading across the carpet and walls. Carson is hurrying everyone out onto the small balcony. He helps Lisa into the rescue harness. She's terrified.
CARSON: You'll be over in five seconds. She nods. Miranda pulls her across the cable and send the harness back. Carson turns next to Sam, but he stands back so his sister can go.
CARSON: sends Sam across. the harness comes back. he straps Mrs. Han into it.
CARSON: Tell 'em I'm gonna release the hook and ride down on the line. He pushes her across. As soon as she's there, he gestures to the Apache Pilot to move closer so he can release the hook.
THE HARNESS: slides back across to him; Carson grabs it with one hand and tries to undo the hook buckle with the other. But the cable is crooked, and the buckle is JAMMED if he can't release it, he's stuck there! Carson tries to free the hook, but it's dug in between the concrete and the railing. Fifteen seconds to go. Carson looks over at the helicopter and waves them away.
CARSON: ( shouts ) Release the cable from your side! Get out of here!
MIRANDA: ( shouts back ) Come over the railing! Grab onto the INT. APACHE HELICOPTER - ( AERIAL SHOT ) - DAY Miranda turns to the Pilot.
MIRANDA: Tear the hook loose!
PILOT: It'll pop the winch buckle!
MIRANDA: Try it anyway!
DAY: Five seconds to go. The Apache helicopter backs away from the high-rise. The cable pulls taut. Carson wraps the webbing of the harness around his wrist. The Apache STRAINS against the resistance of the cable. The entire railing around the balcony BREAKS away, with Carson HANGING on the harness next to it. The helicopter turns and flies away.
CARSON: is engulfed in the FIREBALL. We can't tell if he's alive.
BELOW: Huge chunks of debris, glass, furniture, etc. rain down. Carson and the section of railing underneath the helicopter swing like a pendulum from the force of the blast. Groggy, he loosens his grasp on the harness, and jumps clear as the helicopter lands. Miranda leaps out of the Apache and runs to him.
WIDER: Dust and debris from the explosion hang in the air; helicopters crisscross the scene. Everyone turns their eyes skyward, looking for the missile.
DAY: The Premier and the High Command are watching the action at Park LaBrea on CNN Live. .As Ambassador Han embraces his family. Furious, General Kai gets up and leaves the conference room. The others look at the Premier. After a beat, he crosses to a PANEL OF ELECTRONICS and SLAPS a large red button on it.
DARKNESS: and the sound of RUNNING WATER.
CARSON: ( into phone ) .I'll call you next week. Carson hangs up, and CLICKS off the TV as he leaves the room. The sound of RUNNING WATER continues ( OS ).
MIRANDA: Who was that on the phone?
CARSON: The Bureau. They want me back on the hostage What did you say?
MIRANDA: What did you say?
CARSON: Told 'em I'd sleep on it. Miranda smiles, then looks at him, surprised, as he crouches down and helps her turn the soil around the rose bushes. They work in silence. Then, tentatively, she leans over and kisses him. Soon they're in each other's arms, holding tight.
MIRANDA: Working with you today was certainly. interesting, Inspector.
CARSON: It's my outstanding people skills. He slips her out of her robe and they fall onto the bed. It is a tender, romantic moment. Until, ( OS ), a CAR ALARM goes off. Miranda bolts up.
MIRANDA: I hate this fucking town. Carson ignores the ALARM and Miranda's comment. He pushes her back onto the bed and turns off the bedside lamp. All of the books and magazines about other places to live spill from his nightstand, onto the floor.
