Rachel: That is it! You just barge in here, you don't knock
Chandler: I'm sorry!
Rachel: You have no respect for anybody's privacy!
Chandler: Rachel, wait, wait.
Rachel: No, you wait! This is ridiculous!
Chandler: Can I just say one thing?
Rachel: What? What?!
Chandler: That's a relatively open weave and I can still see your... nipular
areas.
Rachel: Oh!!
Phoebe: Oh, honey, honey, tell them the story about your patient who thinks
things are, like, other things. Y'know? Like, the phone rings and she takes a shower.
Roger: That's pretty much it.
Phoebe: Oops!
Roger: But you tell it really well, sweetie.
Phoebe: Thanks. Okay, now go away so we can talk about you.
Roger: Okay. I'll miss you.
Phoebe: Isn't he great?
Rachel: He's so cute! And he seems to like you so much.
Phoebe: I know, I know. So sweet... and so complicated. And for a shrink, he's
not too shrinky, y'know?
Monica: So, you think you'll do it on his couch?
Phoebe: Oh, I don't know, I don't know. I think that's a little weird, y'know?
Vinyl.
Rachel: Okaaay. (To the guys, on the couch) Any of you guys want anything else?
Chandler: Oh, yes, could I have one of those. (Points)
Rachel: No, I'm sorry, we're all out of those. Anybody else?
Chandler: Okay.
Roger: Did I, uh, did I miss something?
Chandler: No, she's still upset because I saw her boobies.
Ross: You what? Wh what were you doing seeing her boobies?
Chandler: It was an accident. Not like I was across the street with a telescope
and a box of donuts.
Rachel: Okay, okay, could we change the subject, please?
Phoebe: Yeah, 'cause hello, these are not her boobies, these are her breasts.
Rachel: Okay, Pheebs, I was hoping for more of a change.
Chandler: Y'know, I don't know why you're so embarrassed, they were very nice
boobies.
Rachel: Nice? They were nice. I mean, that's it? I mean, mittens are nice.
Chandler: Okaaay, (Gestures) rock, hard place, me.
Roger: You're so funny! He's really funny! I wouldn't wanna be there when when
the laughter stops.
Chandler: Whoah whoah, back up there, Sparky. What'd you mean by that?
Roger: Oh, just seems as though that maybe you have intimacy issues. Y'know,
that you use your humour as a way of keeping people at a distance.
Chandler: Huh.
Roger: I mean hey! I just met you, I don't know you from Adam. ...Only child,
right? Parents divorced before you hit puberty.
Chandler: Uhhuh, how did you know that?
Roger: It's textbook.
Joey: Hey you guys. Hey, you all know my dad, right?
All: Hey! Hey, Mr. Trib!
Monica: Hey, how long are you in the city?
Phoebe: Oh, this is my friend Roger.
Roger: Hi. 
Roger: You too, sir.
Joey: Dad, dad. (Shakes his head)
Joey: (Snatches the phone) Hey Ma. Listen, I made the appointment with Dr.
Bazida, and... Excuse me? (To his dad) Did you know this isn't Ma?
Joey: Sure. So how long you been... (Goes back to chopping)
Joey: Since then?!
Joey: ...I d'know.
Joey: You're one to talk. (Puts the mushrooms in a saucepan)
Joey: Oh man. Please tell me one of 'em is Ma.
Joey: It's like if you woke up one day and found out your dad was leading this
double life. He's like actually some spy, working for the C.I.A. (Considers) That'd be
cool.... This blows!
Rachel: I know, I mean, why can't parents just stay parents? (She walks over
near Chandler and his gaze stays very obviously on her chest) Why do they have to become
people? Why do they have... (Notices Chandler) Why can't you stop staring at my breasts?
Chandler: (Without looking up) What? (Looks up) What?
Rachel: Did you not get a good enough look the other day?
Ross: Alright, alright. We're all adults here, there's only one way to resolve
this. Since you saw her boobies, I think, uh, you're gonna have to show her your peepee.
Chandler: Y'know, I don't see that happening?
Rachel: C'mon, he's right. Tit for tat.
Chandler: Well I'm not showing you my 'tat.'
Monica: Hello?
Phoebe: (Intercom) It's Phoebe.
Roger: (Intercom) And Rog.
Monica: C'mon up.
Chandler: (Sarcastic) Oh, good. Rog is here.
Joey: What's the matter with Rog?
Ross: Yeah.
Chandler: Oh, it's nothing, it's a little thing... I hate that guy.
Ross: What, so he was a little analytical. That's what he does, y'know? C'mon,
he's not that bad.
Ross: Y'see, that's where you're wrong. Why would I marry her if I thought on
any level thatthat she was a lesbian?
Roger: I dunno. Maybe you wanted your marriage to fail.
Ross: Why? Why would I why? Why? Why? Why?
Roger: I don't know. Maybe maybe low self-esteem, maybe maybe to compensate for
overshadowing a sibling, maybe you...
Monica: Wait-wait, go back to that sibling thing.
Roger: Well, I don't know. I mean, it's conceivable that you wanted to sabotage
your marriage so that the sibling would feel less of a failure in the eyes of the parents.
Ross: That that's ridiculous! I don't feel guilty for her failures!
Monica: Oh! So you think I'm a failure!
Phoebe: Isn't he good?
Ross: Nonono, thatthat's not what I was saying...
Monica: Y'know, all these years, I thought you were on my side. But maybe what
you were doing was sucking up to Mom and Dad so they'd keep liking you better!
Ross: Hey, I married a lesbian to make you look good!
Rachel: You're right! I mean you're right! It wasn't just the Weebles, but it
was the Weeble Play Palace, and and the Weebles' Cruise Ship. Oh, which had this little
lifeboat for the Weebles to wobble in. 
Roger: That's tough. Tough stuff. C'mon, Pheebs, we're gonna catch that movie,
we gotta get going. 
Phoebe: Oh, okay. Feel better, Rachel, 'kay?
Roger: Geez, we're gonna be late, sweetie...
Phoebe: Oh, okay. Listen, thanks for everything, Mon.
Monica: You're welcome.
Roger: Listen guys, it was great seeing you again. Mon, um, easy on those
cookies, okay? Remember, they're just food, they're not love.
Monica: Hate that guy! (Throws another cookie)
Joey: Night, you guys.
Chandler: Oh look, it's the woman we ordered.
Joey: Hey. Can, uh, can we help you?
Ronni: Oh, no thanks, I'm just waiting for, uh, Joey Tribbiani.
Joey: I'm Joey Tribbiani.
Ronni: Oh no, not you, big Joey. Oh my God, you're so much cuter than your
pictures! (Joey stares at her) I-I'm, I'm Ronni....Cheese Nip?
Chandler: Uh, Joey's having an embolism, but I'd go for a Nip, y'know?
Ronni: Now, y'see, most people, when their pets pass on, they want 'em sorta
laid out like they're sleeping. But occasionally you get your person who wants them in a
pose. Like, chasing their tail, (Demonstrates) or, uh, jumping to catch a frisbee.
Chandler: Joey, if I go first, I wanna be looking for my keys.
Ronni: That's a good one!
Joey: Dad, Ronni's here.
Ronni: Hi.
Ronni: Oh, uh, well, you left your good hair at my apartment, I figured you'd
need it tomorrow for your meeting. (Hands him the hair)
Chandler: So, who's up for a big game of Kerplunk?
Ronni: Look, I uh, I shouldn'ta come. I-I'd better get going, I don't wanna miss
the last train.
Ronni: Oh, where'm I gonna stay, here?
Joey: Who-ah-ho.
Ronni: (Shrugs) We'll go to a hotel.
Joey: No you won't.
Ronni: No we won't.
Joey: If you go to a hotel you'll be...doing stuff. I want you right here where
I can keep an eye on you.
Joey: That's right, mister, and I don't care how old you are, as long as you're
under my roof you're gonna live by my rules. And that means no sleeping with your
girlfriend.
Ronni: Wow. He's strict.
Joey: Now dad, you'll be in my room, Ronni uh, you can stay in Chandler's room.
Ronni: Thanks. You're, uh, you're a good kid.
Chandler: C'mon, I'll show you to my room. ...That sounds so weird when it's not
followed by "No thanks, it's late." 
Joey: Okay. Now this is just for tonight. Starting tomorrow, you gotta make a
change. This has gone on long enough.
Joey: Well, either you break it off with Ronni
Joey: Then you gotta come clean with Ma! This is not right!
Joey: I don't wanna hear it! Now go to my room!
Chandler: Hey, Kicky. What're you doing?
Joey: Just trying to get comfortable. I can't sleep in my underwear. 
Chandler: Well, you're gonna.
Joey: I've been thinking. Y'know, about how I'm always seeing girls on top of
girls...
Chandler: Are they end to end, or tall like pancakes?
Joey: Y'know what I mean, about how I'm always going out with all these women.
And I always figured, when the right one comes along, I'd be able to be a stand-up guy and
go the distance, y'know? Now I'm looking at my dad, thinking...
Chandler: Hey, you're not him. You're you. When they were all over you to go
into your father's pipe-fitting business, did you cave?
Joey: No.
Chandler: No. You decided to go into the out-of-work actor business. Now that
wasn't easy, but you did it! And I'd like to believe that when the right woman comes
along, you will have the courage and the guts to say "No thanks, I'm married."
Joey: You really think so?
Chandler: Yeah. I really do.
Joey: Thanks, Chandler. (Snuggles up to him)
Chandler: Get off!
Ronni: Hi.
Monica: Hi...May I help you?
Ronni: Yeah, uh, Joey said I could use your shower, since, uh, Chandler's in
ours?
Monica: Okay...who are you?
Ronni: Oh, I'm Ronni. Ronni Rappelano? The mistress?
Monica: Oh, c'mon in.
Ronni: Thanks.
Rachel: Hi, I'm Rachel.
Ronni: Hi.
Rachel: Bathroom's up there.
Ronni: Great.
Rachel: Hey, listen, Ronni, how long would you say Chandler's been in the
shower?
Ronni: Oh, like, uh, five minutes?
Rachel: Perfect. Fasten your seatbelts, it's peepee time. (She goes into Joey
and Chandler's apartment, where Mr. Tribbiani is reading the paper) Hey, Mr. Trib. 
Rachel: Chandler Bing? It's time to see your thing.
Joey: (Runs out in a towel) What's the matter with you?!
Rachel: I thought it was Chandler!
Chandler: (Comes out of his room) What? What?
Rachel: You were supposed to be in there so I could see your thing!
Chandler: Sorry, my my thing was in there with me.
All: Hey, Pheebs.
Phoebe: Hey. 
Monica: How's it going?
Phoebe: Good. Oh oh! Roger's having a dinner thing and he wanted me to invite
you guys.
Phoebe: So what's going on?
Monica: Nothing, um, it's just, um... It's Roger. 
Ross: I dunno, there's just something about...
Chandler: Basically we just feel that he's...
Rachel: We hate that guy.
All: Yeah. Hate him.
Ross: We're sorry, Pheebs, we're sorry.
Phoebe: Uh-huh. Okay. Okay, don't you think, maybe, though, it's just that he's
so perceptive that it freaks you out?
All: ...No, we hate him.
Rachel: We're sorry.
Joey: Ma! What're you doing here?
Joey: Oww! Big ring!
Joey: Hold on, you-you knew?
Joey: So then how could you I mean, how could you?!
Joey: Ma, I don't mean to be disrespectful, but... what the hell are you talking
about?! I mean, what about you?
Joey: I'm...happy...for you?
Joey: Ma, I'm sorry. I just did what I thought you'd want.
Joey: Yeah. You're ten times prettier than she is.
Joey: With this ring? (Her engagement ring.) No contest.
Roger: What's wrong, sweetie?
Phoebe: Nothing, nothing.
Roger: Aaaah, what's wrong, c'mon. (Pats his leg. She lies down and rests her
head in his lap)
Phoebe: It's, I mean, it's nothing, I'm fine. It's my friends. They-they have a
liking problem with you. In that, um, they don't.
Roger: Oh. They don't.
Phoebe: But they don't see all the wonderfulness that I see. They don't see all
the good stuff and all the sweet stuff. They just think you're a little...
Roger: What?
Phoebe: Intense and creepy. 
Roger: Oh.
Phoebe: But I don't. Me, Phoebe.
Roger: Well, I'm not I'm not at all surprised they feel that way.
Phoebe: You're not? See, that's why you're so great! 
Roger: Actually it's, it's quite, y'know, typical behaviour when you have this
kind of dysfunctional group dynamic. Y'know, this kind of co-dependant, emotionally
stunted, sitting in your stupid coffee house with your stupid big cups which, I'm sorry,
might as well have nipples on them, and you're like all 'Oh, define me! Define me! Love
me, I need love!'.
Monica: So you talked to your dad, huh.
Joey: Yeah. He's gonna keep cheating on my ma like she wanted, she's gonna keep
pretending she doesn't know even though she does, and my little sister Tina can't see her
husband any more because he got a restraining order...which has nothing to do with
anything except that I found out today.
Rachel: Wow.
Chandler: Things sure have changed here on Waltons mountain.
Ross: So Joey, you okay?
Joey: Yeah, I guess. It's just parents, after a certain point, you gotta let go.
Even if you know better, you've gotta let them make their own mistakes.
Rachel: Just think, in a couple of years we get to turn into them.
Chandler: If I turn into my parents, I'll either be an alcoholic blond chasing
after twenty-year-old boys, or... I'll end up like my mom.
Phoebe: (entering) Hey.
All: Hey, Pheebs.
Monica: How's it going?
Phoebe: Oh, okay, except I broke up with Roger.
All: Awww.
Phoebe: Yeah, right.
All: Aaawwwwww!!
Rachel: What happened?
Phoebe: I don't know, I mean, he's a good person, and he can be really sweet,
and in some ways I think he is so right for me, it's just... I hate that guy!
Phoebe: Hey, Joey. What's going on?
Joey: Clear the tracks for the boobie payback express. Next stop: Rachel Green.
(He goes into the bathroom. We hear a scream and he comes out, closely followed by Monica
in a towel)
Monica: Joey!! What the hell were you doing?!
Joey: Sorry. Wrong boobies.
Monica: Hello, Joey.