LORD OF WAR: Written by Andrew Niccol
YURI: There are over 550 million firearms in worldwide circulation.  That's one firearm for every twelve people on the planet.  The only question is... (taking a draft and stubbing out the cigarette) ...how do we arm the other eleven?
UKRAINIAN OFFICER: (to his SUBORDINATE carrying a manifest, in Ukrainian) Call it "agricultural machinery".
YURI (V.O.): I was born Yuri Orlovitch in the city of Odessa in a country that no longer exists. You might have heard of it - a little place called the Soviet Union.
YURI: (in subtitled Ukrainian, looking over the idealist's shoulder) All property is theft.
YURI (V.O.): Where I grew up, everyone was equal.  Some were just more equal than others.
YURI: (in subtitled Ukrainian) Shortages?  What shortages?
YURI (V.O.): My father was a wounded hero of World War Two, my younger brother was wounded in Afghanistan - a war without heroes.  I'd gotten out of military service due to a heart problem - it wasn't completely a lie.
RADIO ANNOUNCER: (impossibly upper-crust British accent) --Finally, in response to human rights protests and in an effort to encourage the United States to sell grain to the Soviet Union after two successive crop failures, it is reported that the politburo has consented to permit a limited number of Jews to emigrate from the Soviet Union to Israel. (beat) And that concludes this edition of news from the BBC World Service.
ANATOLY: (incredulous) Trading Jews for grain.
VITALY: (reaching for a banana) It's good P.R. - for the Moscow Olympics.
IRINA: (shrugs) Good for the Jews.
YURI: And us. YURI (cont'd) (matter-of-fact) We're Jewish.
VITALY: (scoffing) We're not Jewish.
YURI: (shrug) We're Jewish if we say we're Jewish.
ANATOLY: Mazeltov.
YURI (V.O.): There have been few occasions in the twentieth century when it's been an advantage to be a Jew.
YURI (V.O.): The rubbing from the Jewish headstone was my first forged document.  Little about my life has been kosher ever since.
YURI (V.O.): We Russian Jews were supposed to be headed for Israel but I didn't see much of the country on that first trip.
YURI (V.O.): Real Jews or fake Jews, eighty-five percent of us ended up in that other "promised land".
YURI (V.O.): We congregated in New York's Brighton Beach because of its similarity to the Crimean Sea.  I've always thought it's appropriate we moved next door to the circus.
YURI (V.O.): I had no idea my father would take his assumed identity so much to heart.  I guess he just stayed in character.
ANATOLY: (glaring at the plate, incredulous) How many times--I can't eat shellfish.  It's "treyf".
IRINA: You're not Jewish.
ANATOLY: I like it. (picking up his felt fedora) I like the hat - to remind us there's something above us.  I like that. ANATOLY (cont'd) I'm going to temple.
IRINA: You're not going to temple.  You go to temple more than the rabbi!
YURI (V.O.): I was suffering an identity crisis of my own.
YURI (V.O.): My gift for languages made me highly sought after.  The C.I.A. and U.N. were both heavily recruiting Russian immigrants.
YURI (V.O.): Naturally, I went with the U.N.  They were paying more.
YURI (V.O.): The fastest way to find out you can't change the world is to actually go there.
YURI (V.O.): West Africa's Liberia, or "land of the free", was originally established in the 1800's as a homeland for freed American negroes.  It's been enslaved by one dictator or another ever since.  They even copied their masters' Southern architecture.
YURI (V.O.): It was my first meeting with the American- educated Andre Roosevelt Baptiste.  While the warning signs were all there, no one had any idea what a monster he would eventually become.  I certainly didn't think he would become my friend.
U.N. ENVOY: (referring to the meager pile of weapons) --With all due respect, Mr. Baptiste, you don't seriously expect us to believe that this represents your entire arsenal. U.N. ENVOY (cont'd) This is making a nonsense of the embargo ratified by all five permanent members of the Security Council.  The escalation in the build up of arms jeopardizes not only order in the region but ultimately world order.
BAPTISTE: (playing to the gallery) --World order?  You say we jeopardize world order? BAPTISTE (cant'd) Your idea of world order is when you're giving the orders to the world. BAPTISTE (cant'd) Excuse me.
BAPTISTE: (irritated by Yuri's presence) I am only going to the restroom.
YURI: (shrug) Orders.
BAPTISTE: (aside to his bodyguards as he enters) This is what they mean by U.N. Observer?
BAPTISTE: (taunting Yuri) Aren't you going to help me hold my cock?
YURI: (glancing towards the urinal) Doesn't look like a job for two men.
BAPTISTE: You know you are fighting a losing battle, my young friend.  War is nature.  If you take away the guns, we will kill each other with knives.  Take away the knives, we will kill each other with sticks.  Take away the sticks, we will kill each other with your peace treaties. (turning to face Yuri) You cannot stop this bath of blood.
YURI: It's not "bath of blood".  It's, "blood bath".
BAPTISTE: Thank you.  But I like it my way.
M.C.: (battling the microphone's feedback) And now, we have a surprise for you.  The 83rd West African Peacekeeping Corp is proud to present, all the way from El Salvador, the newly crowned Miss World, Ava Cordova.
U.N. PEACEKEEPERS: (chanting to Ava) Take it off, baby!  Take it off!
AVA: (referring to the sea of U.N. berets) Baby blue.  My favorite color! AVA (cant'd) I suppose I could give you the speech about "my hope for world peace" but I have a feeling you don't want to hear that today.
U.N. PEACEKEEPER: (calling out) My hope is for a piece of your ass!
AVA: (laughing it off) I don't know if you'll be taking me to bed tonight, darling, but you can take her. AVA (cant'd) You're all doing a great job - keep it up.  Enjoy the show!
U.N. PEACEKEEPER: Ava!  Ava!
MANAGER: Don't touch what you can't afford.
U.N. PEACEKEEPER: (regretting indulging the fantasy) Let's get drunk.
MONROVIAN GIRL: (referring to the money) What's this?
YURI: (explaining the tip) For the smile.
YURI: (mixing English and French) Fuck, no, no, no, no--fuck, no.  Money?  You want money? (going through his pockets, he starts pulling out loose bills) Fuck, no.  Don't shoot.  Don't shoot me. Fuck.  U.S. dollars. (referring to the face on a five dollar bill) President Lincoln.
LIBERIAN MAN: (in flawless English) Glock .45. LIBERIAN MAN (cont'd) (referring to the face on a twenty dollar bill) Jackson.
YURI: What?
LIBERIAN MAN: President Jackson.
YURI: No.
LIBERIAN MAN: (misinterpreting him) You are driving a hard bargain.
YURI: (flabbergasted) No, keep it.  Keep the money.  Keep the gun.
LIBERIAN MAN: (offended) What do you take me for - a thief?
LIBERIAN MAN: Demand and supply. (referring to the gun) There is more I am thinking where this comes from.
YURI: (incredulous) You want more Glocks?
LIBERIAN MAN: And the Heckler
YURI: What makes you think I'll do that?
LIBERIAN MAN: (quizzical) I will come back and shoot you with the Glock. (checking the magazine, referring to the bullets) By the way, do you have the hollow point cartridges?
YURI: (facetious, nodding to the gun) You got any color preference for that?
LIBERIAN MAN: (missing the sarcasm, regarding the gun) Kelly green. (meeting Yuri's eye) I will find you.
YURI (V.O.): He'd come to the right place - peacekeepers are armed to the teeth.  And nothing but premium product.  The U.N. mostly buys from Switzerland - where else?
VIVIAN: (between heavy breaths) What are we doing here, Yuri?
YURI: (kissing her nipple) Whatever you want.
VIVIAN: You know what I mean.  Here, in this country.  Are we doing any good?
YURI: (finally telling her what she wants to hear) Would nothing be better?
YURI (V.O.): The starting salary for a U.N. interpreter back then was $32,000.  I made fifty K on "misplaced" weapons on that one trip alone. I doubt the Secretary General noticed.  The U.N. spends more on lunch.
YURI (V.O.): My tour as a peacekeeper was the perfect preparation for war.
IRINA: (calling after him) Who are you?  You're not my son.  My son doesn't own such a suit.
YURI: You know who's going to inherit the earth? YURI (cont'd) Arms dealers - because everybody else is too busy killing each other.
VITALY: (regarding his brother) It's a hell of a fucking career move.
YURI: That's the point.  I've seen how the world's coming apart.
VITALY: And you want to help with that?
YURI: You can't stop it. (warming to his theme) It's a basic human need - we eat, sleep, sleep with each other and what else?  Fight. The oldest human skeletons have spearheads in their rib cages.
VITALY: What do you know about guns?
YURI: (joking darkly) I know which end I'd rather be on. (adopting a serious tone) Every day there are people shooting at each other.  I think to myself, what guns are they using?  Why not mine?
VITALY: (hesitant) I don't know.
YURI: (pressing his argument) Vitaly, I've tasted your borscht, you're no fucking chef.  I can eat here for free and I still don't eat here.  You're doing nothing with your life.
VITALY: Maybe doing nothing's better than doing this. (referring to an image of a gun) Yuri, I've actually fired one of these things.
YURI: That's why I need you. (coaxing) Brothers in arms.
ANATOLY: (pleasantly surprised) Finally getting in touch with what's important, my Son?
YURI: (simply) Yes.
YURI (V.O.): It wasn't God I was trying to get close to.
YURI (V.O.): Dad's contacts at synagogue landed me my first Israeli-made Uzis and an introduction to the biggest of the big guns.
ASIAN BUSINESSMAN: (brochure in hand) --I can get you the shoulder-fired SA-7 surface-to-air missiles.  The older Chinese model.  Not so effective against modern military aircraft but deadly if used against a commercial airliner.  I'm giving them away at eight-fifty.
YURI (V.O.): It was the eighties and the Cold War was far from thawed.  Most of the deals were government-to-government.  There were some go- betweens - freelancers - but it was a mostly private club with a lifetime club president.
YURI: That's him.  The guy Eli told me about.  Simeon Zaharoff.  Brokered deals in the Iran/Iraq war - both sides, sold missiles to Argentina in the Falklands.  Hets a fucking legend.  I've got to talk to him.
YURI: Simeon!  Simeon!
VITALY: (stepping between the bodyguard and Yuri) They're talking.
SIMEON: May I help you?
YURI: A mutual friend, Eli Kurtzman from Brighton Beach Import-Export said to contact you.  I have a business proposal.  Perhaps we can discuss it - over a drink.
SIMEON: You're in the wrong place my young friend. This is no place for amateurs.
YURI: (under his breath in Ukrainian) Yob tvayu mat.  (Subtitled - Motherfucker.)
YURI (V.O.): Curious how you always revert to your native tongue in moments of extreme anger...
YURI (V.O.): ...and ecstacy.
VITALY (O.C.): Boh...Boh.  Oh, Boh! (Subtitle:  God...God. Oh, God!)
YURI (V.O.): Vitaly and I found our niche in under-the- counter gunrunning - regimes suffering under sanctions.
YURI (V.O.): The job wasn't so different trom the U.N.  I was just as neutral working for the ununited nations.  An equal opportunity "merchant of death", I supplied every army but the Salvation Army.
YURI (V.O.): We got our start in Lebanon after the suicide bombing.
YURI (V.O.): When the United States leaves a war zone, they generally don't take their munitions. It costs more to bring it back than buy new stock.
YURI: I sell by the kilo. YURI (cont'd) (shrug) They're second-hand weapons but they're still okay.
YURI (V.O.): For all my language skills, I soon discovered that what talks best is money. As long as you can speak dollars, dinars, drachmas, rubles, rupees, pesos, escudos, lira, krones, kwanzas, trancs, guilders, deutshmarks, yen and pounds-fucking- sterling, you can communicate anywhere in the world.
YURI: (irritated by the meager amount) This is bullshit money, Vit - small fucking potatoes.
VITALY: What do we do, go more legitimate?
YURI: No.  More illegal.
VITALY: What I'd give right now for a plate of red cabbage and potatoes.
YURI: (whisper, motioning for them to leave) It's not our fight.
YURI (V.O.): I sold Israeli-made Uzis to Muslims.
YURI (V.O.): I sold to both Pakistan and India in their fight tor the most inhospitable land on earth.
YURI: How's it going?
INDIAN COMMANDER: (admiring a new gun) We're making terrific progress - most casualties from avalanches and frostbite.
YURI: (uncertain smile) Make sure you thaw out the guns before you fight.
YURI (V.O.): We had our set-backs.  It's not called gunrunning for nothing.
YURI: (from the boat) Cannibal, what's going on?
CANNIBAL: Cease fire, man.  Cease fire.  It's over.
YURI: What?!  What do you mean it's over?
CANNIBAL: Truce.  We're friends, man.
YURI: (looking to his unopened crates, more and more agitated) Friends?!  You can't be fucking friends. Last week I spoke to you on the phone.  You said you would not rest until every last rebel was dead.  You called them vermin. You said would piss in their mouths, you said you would exterminate them like cockroaches.  Just last week, you said this!
CANNIBAL: (shrug) That was last week, man.
YURI: Cannibal, don't you fucking walk away from me!
CANNIBAL: Peace, man!
YURI: Fuck you, Cannibal!!
VITALY: (referring to the truck) Maybe we can offload it - the Balkans.
YURI: (nodding in agreement) At least when they say they're going to have a war, they keep their word.
YURI (V.O.): I even shipped cargo to Afghanistan when they were still fighting fellow Russians. But I never sold to Osama bin Laden.  Not for any moral grounds.  Back then he was always bouncing checks.
AFGHANI OFFICIAL: I hope you're not thinking of selling these, Mr. Orlov.
YURI: (shakes his head) Personal use.
AFGHANI OFFICIAL: There's a hundred thousand bullets here.
YURI: I'm kind of trigger happy.
YURI (V.O.): And everywhere I went, Ava Cordova kept following me around.  We were as international as each other.
YURI (V.O.): Operations like mine provided the only way for certain regimes to conduct a respectable war.
YURI (V.O.): The freighter I was standing on carried 113 tons of weapons and ammunition for delivery to one of the poorest nations in Latin America in direct contravention of half a dozen international arms embargoes.
YURI (V.O.): To keep authorities in the dark, I often spoke in code.  Rocket launchers were "mothers", the rockets "children".  Assault rifles were "apples".  The AK-47 was "the Angel King".
YURI: (into phone) The Angel King will arrive tomorrow...Hallelujah to you too. YURI (cont'd) (into phone) Yes?...Slow the fuck down--what do you mean, tipped off?  They know where we are?!  Where are they?! YURI (cont'd) (hanging up) Forget it.
CAPTAIN: Do we run?
VITALY: We have to get out of here.
YURI: No, no-one's going anywhere. (to the Captain) Slow--dead slow.  Buy me time. YURI (cont'd) (barking an order to a CREWMAN, referring to the Panamanian flag) Get that fucking rag down! YURI (cont'd) (trying not to sound too desperate) It's Yuri.  I need another handle for this tub...something in our weight class. (to an elderly Latin PAINTER, pointing to the stern) You, over the side! (the painter hesitates) Now! YURI (cont'd) Yes, it's got to check out...you got a shorter name!...what?--Kono?  How do you spell that?...K-O-N-O.  That's good! YURI (cont'd) (to the PAINTER, already blacking out the name, KRISTOL) Kono!  K-O-N-O. YURI (cont'd) (back into phone) What are we flying?...Dutch?  Later. (hanging up, to Vitaly) Vit, get me a Dutch flag! YURI (cont'd) Damn, they're hauling! YURI (cont'd) (agitated, grasping the line of the scaffold) Faster!  Or I send you in! (checking the binoculars again) Faster...and better!
VITALY (O.C.): (panicked) Yuri! VITALY (cant' d) I don't have Dutch.
YURI: What?!
VITALY: I've got Belgium.
YURI: What the fuck use is that?! (panicked, gesturing to the stern) He's painting a name registered in the fucking Netherlands! YURI (cont'd) (mind racing) You got France?!
VITALY: (confused, finding the tricolor) Yes, why?
YURI: Turn it on its side. YURI (cont'd) That's it!  Everybody look innocent--now!
YURI (V.O.): They say every man has his price - but not every man gets it.  Interpol Agent, Jack Valentine, couldn't be bought, at least not with money.  For Jack, glory was the prize.
VALENTINE: Not exactly "The Love Boat". VALENTINE (cont'd) (into phone) It's clean?...It doesn't look clean.  I'm boarding.
YURI: (anxious whisper into phone) It's Yuri.  Phone in a sighting of the Kristol south of Aruba.
AGENT: (referring to the phone) Sir, sighting of the Kristol due north.
YURI: Nice job.
YURI: (in Spanish) Hey, pay before you play.
NARC LEADER: (in Spanish) You're late.
VITALY: Hey, fuck you!
NARC LEADER: (jamming his handgun in Vitaly's eye socket) Fuck you!
YURI: (reasoning with the Narc Leader) No, you don't fuck him-- YURI (cont'd) No, Vit.  No. (to the Leader, referring to the bullets) Help yourselves.  Free sample.
YURI (V.O.): The first and most important rule of gunrunning is never get shot with your own merchandise.
YURI (V.O.): The second rule is always ensure you have a foolproof way to get paid.  Credit card, check, cash.  Preferably in advance, ideally to an off-shore account.  It's why I choose my customers so carefully.  Say what you like about warlords and dictators, they tend to have a highly developed sense of order. They always pay their bills on time.
NARC LEADER: (referring to Yuri's wound) I apologize for earlier.
YURI: (slight wince) I understand.
NARC LEADER: It's all there.
YURI: What is this?
NARC LEADER: Six keys of pure.
YURI: (incredulous) I can't hand this to my fucking bank teller at Chase Manhattan.
NARC LEADER: (hair-trigger temper flaring again) You should be thanking me. (waving his cell phone) Have you checked the street price today? With the seizures at the border last week, it's jumped thirty percent.
YURI: I sell guns.  I don't sell drugs.
NARC LEADER: (shrug) Diversify.
YURI: (calling after him) I've got standards.
VITALY: (staring at their "remuneration") Now what?
YURI: (sighs, exasperated) Vit.
YURI (V.O.): I found Vitaly twelve days, two thousand miles and 150 grams later in a Bolivian boarding house.
YURI (O.C.): Vitaly!  Open this fucking door!
VITALY: (happy - way too happy) Yuri! (to the comatose prostitutes) It's my brother, Yuri.  He's my big brother.
YURI: What the fuck is that?
VITALY: Ukraine. (indicating the direction he is going to snort) I start in Odessa, work my way to the Crimea--
YURI: (staring at the map, appalled) --You'll be fucking dead before you reach Kiev.
VITALY: You fuck! VITALY (cant'd) You fucking fuck!
YURI: Get out of the car. YURI (cont'd) I promised our parents.
VITALY: (desperate eyes) Please.
YURI: Vitaly, you're going to have a good time. This is a top place.  Two Ford models checked in last week and that cute weather girl's been here since July.
VITALY: Please.
VITALY: (as he wipes his nose) You're a good brother.
YURI (V.O.): I never understood what separated the recreational drug user from the habitual, the functional addict from the dysfunctional.  But for the grace of God, it could have been me snorting lines as long as the Belt Parkway.
YURI (V.O.): Vitaly never got completely clean despite the prayers of my mother...
YURI (V.O.): ...and father.  In fact, my younger brother was the only reason my father ever had to question his new religion.
YURI (V.O.): After Colombia I became a one-man-operation. A sole proprietor as you say on your tax return - that is if you're foolish enough to fill one out.
YURI (V.O.): By then I'd mastered my craft.  Selling arms is not so different to selling vacuum cleaners.  You advertise, pound the pavement, take orders.
YURI (V.O.): Of course, a good arms dealer also has to be a political scientist.  I go by a seven-step approach.
YURI (V.O.): One: identity a government and an opposition where the opposition is ignored.
YURI (V.O.): Two: Wait for a radical group to break away from the opposition.
YURI (V.O.): Three: Immediately approach the radical group and offer them arms.
YURI (V.O.): Four: Whether they buy or not, inform the government that the radical group approached you and offer the government arms.
YURI (V.O.): Five: Whether they buy or not, re-approach the radical group and offer them more arms but now at a higher price.  Increasing tension is a means of generating demand and the ideal situation is to sell to both sides.
YURI (V.O.): Six: If they start shooting at each other, the escalation is underway.
YURI (V.O.): They are consuming small arms and ammunition and the cash register is well and truly ringing.
YURI (V.O.): Seven: Don't forget that the success of a radical group in one country can inspire a radical group in a neighboring country.
AGENT: (into phone) --There's really no one else you'd consider? Christie and Brooke are both available...not the right look?  It's just that Ava doesn't generally do print. AGENT (cont'd) However, since you are willing to double her rate and pay cash in advance.  She loves working with Herb and you say the campaign will only be seen in Asia? (examining a first class plane ticket Destination: St. Barts) I certainly can't see her objecting to the location. (inspecting an itinerary) What is the product again...?
YURI: (into phone) The product?  Er,...Colt .45. (a beat) The beer.
YURI (V.O.): It cost me twenty for the fake booking, another twelve to buy out the hotel.  You can't force someone to tall in love with you but you can sure make ita damn sight easier.
AVA: (calling to Yuri) Popular hotel, huh? AVA (cont'd) Ava Cordova.
YURI: Yuri Orlov.  What brings you to St. Barts?
AVA: A photo shoot.  At least, that was the plan. But the photographer's plane got stuck in Miami.  Hurricane - though there was nothing in the news.
YURI: (gazing out at the ocean) Those things can come out of nowhere.
AVA: The job's cancelled and there's no flight back to New York 'til Tuesday.
YURI: You can hitch a ride with me if you like. YURI (cont'd) (picking up his own camera) In the meantime, why don't I take your picture?
YURI (V.O.): In my experience some of the most successful relationships are founded on lies and deceit.  Since that's where they usually end up anyway, it's a logical place to start.
YURI (V.O.): I nearly went broke trying to convince her I was anything but.  I knew Ava was not the kind of woman to be seduced by a ride in a private jet unless you owned the jet.
AVA: (holding her skirt in the wind to protect her modesty) This is your plane?
YURI: (shrug) That is my name.
YURI (V.O.): Of course I was lying.  The plane was a rental, like the car and even the suit I was standing in.  At the last minute, I bribed the crew for the paint-job.
YURI (V.O.): Luckily, by the time we landed, Ava wasn't looking anywhere but in my eyes.
YURI: (pretending to be impressed with the photos) I had no idea. YURI (cant'd) I'm sorry I didn't recognize you.  You must think me very rude.
AVA: Don't apologize.  I put on clothes for a living.
YURI: (wry grin) At least you aren't taking them off.
AVA: (smiling at his irreverence) I would be if half the photographers had their way. (shrug) But I can't complain.  I'm paid to say, "Cheese". (meeting his gaze) What about you?
YURI: Nothing so glamorous.  I'm in transport - international air freight mostly.
AVA: What, like UPS or something?
YURI: Something like that.
AVA: (glance to her champagne flute) Business is good.
YURI: Like you, I can't complain.
AVA: But if you did?
YURI: Well...I don't know. (reluctant admission) It's just that I travel all around the world but I can't help feeling sometimes that I'm going nowhere. YURI (cont'd) Here's to... (raising his glass) ...a hurricane. YURI (cont'd) Without it, I'd never have met you.
AVA: This is no accident, is it, Yuri? AVA (cont'd) It feels like fate.
YURI: (never averting his eyes) I don't believe in fate.
AVA: What do you believe in?
YURI (V.O.): We married in a synagogue to make my father happy.  In the eyes of my Catholic mother, it was worse than living in sin.
YURI: (explaining to the guests) It's traditional.
VITALY: (meekly echoing the remark -joke badly misfired) Traditional. YURI (cant'd) One more time, Vitaly. YURI (cont'd) (reassuring word as he whisks Ava into the car) I'm sorry.  I should have said something.
ANATOLY: (touching his yarmulke) Always remember, son, there's something above you.
YURI: (looking up, gently joking) Sure, Dad.  A forty-thousand dollar crystal chandelier. YURI (cont'd) Mom, we don't need anything.
IRINA: You need this.
YURI (V.O.): I was still living way beyond my means, mortgaged to the hilt, using one credit card to payoff another.  Anything to keep Ava in the style to which she had, thanks largely to me, become accustomed.  Then suddenly all my Christmases came at once.
ANATOLY: (to Irina, regarding a nativity scene on a Christmas card) Jesus was Jewish.  You're worshipping a Jew.
IRINA: Ava, this is too much.
AVA: Yuri likes to spoil you.
AVA: Nicki!  You did it.  Good boy!
ANATOLY: That's my grandson.
AVA: (calling out) Yuri.  Don't you want to see what your son is doing?
YURI (O.C.): Tak!  Tak!  Tak-fucking-tak!  (subtitle: Yes!)
ANATOLY: What the hell's the matter?
YURI: It's over!  It's over!
AVA: What's over?
YURI: The Cold War, the Soviet Union, the Evil Empire.  Mikhail's saying "no mas".  He's throwing in the towel.  It's over.
AVA: That's nice. (referring to Nicolai) Your son is crawling.
ANATOLY: (contemplating the day's events) At least there'll be religious freedom.
YURI: I think I'll go back for a visit. (trying to sound casual) Do you stay in touch with Uncle Dmitri?
ANATOLY: (face lighting up) Dmitri Volkoff?  Now and then.
YURI: How is he?
ANATOLY: The luckiest man alive.  You know he was one of the first men at Chernobyl.  Off-duty, at his daughter's wedding, he was roaring drunk.  He was the only one who survived. Later they found that alcohol in your blood resists radiation.
YURI: He's still a General in the army?
ANATOLY: Major General.  He got promoted.  Two of his rivals were also there that day.  I told you - he's the luckiest man alive.
YURI: He may be luckier than you think.
ANATOLY: (lowering his voice) We're not fools, Yuri.  What's between you and your wife is your own business but I don't think you're going to Odessa to open a McDonald's. (meeting his son's eye) Is this how you want to be remembered?
YURI: (shrug) You're only remembered when you're dead. YURI (cont'd) I'll bring you back some caviar.
ANATOLY: It's not kosher.
VITALY: Merry fucking Christmas!
ANATOLY: (paternal) Vitaly, who is this?
ANGEL: Angel.
VITALY: Her name really is Angel.  She's a fairy. (hoisting Angel) Let's stick her on top of the Christmas tree. VITALY (cont' d) (at a loss for anything better) I love you all.
YURI: I'm going back to Ukraine.
VITALY: (maudlin) I miss Odessa.  I miss you.
YURI: I miss you too. VITALY (cont'd) (meeting his brother's eye) Be careful, Yuri.  Those things you sell, kill... (tapping Yuri's chest where his heart should be) ...inside.
YURI (V.O.): There's no problem leading a double life. It's the triple and quadruple lives that get you in the end.
YURI (V.O.): Back then I carried a French, British, Israeli and Ukrainian passport and a student visa for the U.S., but that's another story.
YURI (V.O.): I also packed five different briefcases depending on the region of the world I was visiting.
YURI (V.O.): The end of the Cold War was the beginning of the hottest time in arms dealing.  The Wall had fallen.  The arms bazaar was open. Those forty-five years had generated the highest weapons build-up in history.  The Soviets had tanks and guns coming out the demon hole - huge stockpiles and now no enemy.
BORDER GUARD: (in English, checking Yuri's passport) Visa? BORDER GUARD (cont'd) Cash or check only.
YURI: It's good to be home.
DMITRI: Nephew, come here and hug the luckiest man alive. DMITRI (cont'd) What?  Did you think I'd be glowing?  Don't worry.  You can't catch it.
DMITRI: (referring to the car) This is the SLK?
YURI: 0 - 60 in 4.8.
DMITRI: I can't just sell you government property, Yuri.  I have to report--
YURI: --Report to who?  Moscow?  As of last week Moscow is in a foreign country.
DMITRI: (shrug) New flag, new boss.
YURI: There is no new boss yet.  They're too busy squabbling over who gets the presidential holiday home at the Black Sea. YURI (cont'd) (talking like an evangelist) It's beautiful.  The ones who know don't care any more.  The ones who care don't know. (nodding to a safe built into the floor) Show me your inventory.
YURI: How many Kalashnikovs do you have?
DMITRI: (referring to the inventory in his hand)
YURI: (looking over Dmitri's shoulder) Is that a "4"?  It doesn't look like a "4" to me.  It looks more like a "1".
DMITRI: (missing the point) No, it's a "4".
YURI: It's whatever we say it is because no one else knows the difference. YURI (cont'd) 10,000 Kalashnikovs for a battalion.  Your stocks are dangerously depleted, Dmitri. You should order more from the factory.
DMITRI: Someone will work this out, Yuri.  What happens then?
YURI: (shrug) We'll cut them in.  Anyway, what could happen - you're the luckiest man alive.
YURI (V.O.): Avtomat Kalashnikova, model of 1947 - more commonly known as the AK-47 or Kalashnikov. It's the world's most popular assault ritle - a weapon all fighters love.  An elegantly simple nine pound amalgamation of forged steel and molded plastic.  It doesn't break, jam or over-heat.  It will shoot whether its covered in mud or filled with sand.  It's so easy, even a child can use it.  And they do. The Russians put the gun on a coin. Mozambique put it on their flag.  Since the end of the Cold War, the Kalashnikov has become the Russian peoples' greatest export - after that comes vodka and suicidal novelists.  One thing's for sure, no one was lining up to buy their cars.
YURI (V.O.): Of course my idea was not entirely unique. I had rivals.
YURI: He's a friend of mine.
SIMEON: Do you know who the fuck I am?
OFFICER: (thick Ukrainian accent) Who the fuck cares who the fuck you are?
SIMEON: I demand to see your commanding officer.
OFFICER: You don't demand shit.
SIMEON: Just give me back my papers.
OFFICER: (papers clearly visible in his hand) What papers?
YURI (O.C.): You're late, Simeon. YURI (cont'd) I invited you for a drink once before. Perhaps now you will accept my invitation.
BARMAID: (to Yuri, impressed) You sell guns?
YURI: Maybe you'd like to come to my room and see my bazooka.
YURI: You look a little lost, Simeon.  Is the world changing too fast?
SIMEON: I am here, aren't I?
YURI: Not all of you, I think. YURI (cont'd) You've gotten so rich selling for the CIA, you can't get that ideology completely out of your head.  The empire was evil for too long.
SIMEON: I can't deny, it takes some getting used to. Last week we were trying to beat their brains in and now we're going into business together.
YURI: There's no place in gunrunning for politics anymore, Simeon.  I sell to leftists, rightists.  I'd sell to pacifists but they're not the most regular of customers. YURI (cont'd) Of course, you're not a true internationalist until you've supplied weapons to kill your own countrymen.
SIMEON: I understand you have Ukraine in your pocket but there are the other satellite states. Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Belarus.  Instead of cutting each other's throats, it may be more profitable to work together.  What do you think?
YURI: I think you are the amateur now.  I think you suffer from a philosophical disadvantage - you have a philosophy.  I think you should go with your instincts - your first instinct. YURI (cont'd) I am the same man who was not good enough for you before.  I am not good enough for you now.
SIMEON: The problem with gunrunners going to war is there's no shortage of ammunition.
YURI (V.O.): Back then, it was all for sale...
YURI (V.O.): Helicopters, torpedo boats, armored personnel carriers, whole tank divisions.
UKRAINE MAJOR: (haggling over the gunships) --I'll tell you what I'll do.  Buy six, you get one free.
YURI: What about tech support?
UKRAINE MAJOR: No problem.
YURI: Son, get off there before you get hurt.
UKRAINE MAJOR: (sheepish) He's the tech support.
YURI: (incredulous) He's twelve.
UKRAINE MAJOR: Thirteen.  Almost fourteen.
DMITRI: (shrug) Kids grow up fast around here.
UKRAINE MAJOR: (nodding to the gunship) He can take it apart in his sleep.
YURI (O.C.): Who are you? YURI (cont'd) (angrily to Dmitri) I thought we were supposed to be watching for these checkpoints.
DMITRI: How can I?  You keep selling my helicopters. You're too greedy, Yuri.
YURI: (anxious) We have to go back.
DMITRI: We'll be going in reverse.  We can't turn around for a mile.
YOUNG SOLDIER: They're coming.
DMITRI: We shoot it out?
YURI: (shaking his head) And start an international fucking incident - no, no, no.
DMITRI: So we run.
YURI: No.  I've got paperwork.
DMITRI: (protesting) Not for the gunship.  Yuri, you know the penalty for sanction-busting - selling a military helicopter?
YURI: It's not a military helicopter.  It's a rescue helicopter. YURI (cant' d) Get to work, Son.
YURI: Yuri Orlov.
VALENTINE: (flashing ID) Papers. VALENTINE (cont'd) (regarding the photo closely) Mr. Orlov, always in the wrong place at the right time.  We've met before.  Off the coast of Colombia. (feigning memory loss) What was the name of that freighter - I can't remember.  Was it the Kono or the Kristol?
YURI: (hesitates, he's actually forgotten) The crew called that vessel a lot of names - none of them repeatable in polite company. YURI (cont'd) (noting to the gun in his ribs) The new MP-5.  Do you need a silencer for that?
VALENTINE: The end-user certificate for this aircraft states Burkina Faso.  Nice.  Did you type it yourself?
YURI: It's for humanitarian missions.
VALENTINE: You're a humanitarian? VALENTINE (cont'd) (not buying it for a second) This is a killing machine.
YURI: Not any more.
DMITRI: (in broken English) Listen to the nephew.
YURI: Didn't you get the memo?  The war's over. What can they do with military hardware but convert to civilian use?
DMITRI: What, yes?
YURI: (trying to lighten the mood) The only way you could die from this baby is if a food drop hits you.
VALENTINE: (referring to the missiles) Also going to Burkina Faso?
YURI: (pointing to the document) But to a different client at a different address.
VALENTINE: What do you take me for?  A complete fucking fool?
YURI: (eyeing Valentine's gun pressed to his throat) Not complete, Sir.  And while I hesitate to tell you your job, I must point out that when shipped separately the weapons and the aircraft both comply with the current Interpol trade standards and practices.
VALENTINE: (incredulous) You expect me to believe this is a coincidence?
YURI: I can see how certain people might interpret it as suspicious but thank God we live in a world where suspicion alone does not constitute a crime.
VALENTINE: (tosses the documents on the road) Yuri Orlov.  You and I are going to be seeing a lot of each other.
YURI: I can hardly wait.
VALENTINE: (climbing into his Jeep) Watch out for the time you don't see me.
BOY: (perfect American accent) What an asshole.
YURI: (referring to the departing Simeon) What was he doing here?
DMITRI: (zipping his pants) Trying to beat your offer.  I sent him on his way.  He doesn't understand the concept of loyalty. DMITRI (cont'd) Speaking of loyalty, too many people know. I have to make pay-offs.
YURI: Don't worry.  There're more VCR's.  I left them in your new car.
DMITRI: Even your enemy was admiring that car.  I am the luckiest man alive.
YURI: (screaming to Dmitri) Dmit--!!!
AVA: (still groggy) Yes, I'll accept the charges.
YURI: Ava--
AVA: Hey, baby. (glancing to a clock - 3am) You forgotten what time it is?
YURI: Sorry.  I, er... (talking about anything other than what's on his mind) How was your audition?
AVA: (resigned smile) They're going in another direction.  The direction of someone who can act.
YURI: Don't say that.  You're good.
AVA: And you're biased.
AVA: (sensing something amiss) Where are you?  Is everything okay?
YURI: Rough day at the office.
AVA: Come home.  We miss you.
YURI: Soon. (more desperate than he intended) How's Nicki?
AVA: Asleep in our bed.  It's lonely without you. AVA (cont'd) Yuri, what's that?
YURI: A party.
AVA: It's always a party where you are.
YURI: I'd better go.  I just wanted to call--hear your voice.  Kiss Nicki for me.
AVA: I love you.
YURI (V.O.): In Ukraine since 1992, $32 billion worth of arms have been stolen and re-sold.  One of the greatest heists of the 20th Century.
YURI (V.O.): The primary market was Africa.  Eleven major conflicts involving 32 countries in the past decade - a gunrunner's wet dream.
YURI (V.O.): My best customer was self-declared president of Liberia, Andre Baptiste.  Even though we'd met before, I was in no hurry to meet him again.  He'd gotten a reputation for routinely hacking off the limbs of those who opposed him.  His seven-year civil war has been described as "a relentless campaign of sadistic, wanton violence unimaginable to those unfamiliar with the details of man's capacity to visit the abyss."  That kind of sums up Andy for me.
ANDRE JNR.: Mr. Yuri, I am Andre Baptiste Junior.  My father would like to meet you.
YURI: Thank him but I have other business.  A busy schedule.
ANDRE JNR.: It is not optional.  My father is easily offended.
YURI: What do you know?  My schedule just freed up.
YURI (V.O.): But if I thought I was scared of Andre Senior, I knew I was scared of Andre Junior. Like father, like son.  The guava doesn't fall too far from the tree.  He was a heavy- drinker, a womanizer with a penchant for cheerleaders and a lover of fast American automobiles which he drove recklessly and with total impunity around the streets of the capital.  Oh yes, he was also a cannibal.  They say Andre would eat a victim's heart while it was still beating to give him superhuman strength.  I could've told him he'd get the same effect from a pastrami sandwich at Carnegie's Deli.
YURI (V.O.): Monrovia itself was like being on another planet.  Planet Monrovia.  From the temperature it was obviously a planet close to the sun.  I rarely saw another white man even at my hotel that was soon dubbed the "Little Kremlin".  And I never left town alone.  Outside town, was the edge of hell. I didn't want to even gaze into it.
ANDRE JNR.: This is your hotel. (proudly) Two stars. ANDRE JNR. (cont'd) (to Yuri) Can you bring me the gun of Rambo?
YURI: Part One, Two or Three?
ANDRE JNR.: (confused) I have only seen Part One.
YURI: (nodding) The M60.  You want the attachable grenade launcher?
ANDRE JNR.: Please.  And the armor piercing bullets. (revving the car) I will be back to get you in an hour...or two.  It's Liberia. (mischievous smile) We left a welcoming present in your room.
HOTEL PORTER #1: (never averting his eyes from the screen) My God, he nearly cut off her head.
HOTEL PORTER #2: When I get to America, I will not live in Brentwood.
YURI (V.O.): In the most AIDS infested region of the globe, where one in four is infected, Andre's idea of a joke was to put a young Iman and a young Naomi naked in my bed and no condom within a hundred miles.
GLORIA: Hello, Mr. Yuri.
FAITH: We'd be happy to make you happy.
GLORIA: Don't worry, we don't have anything.
YURI: How do you know?
FAITH: Do we look like it?
YURI: (fending them off but with little commitment) What if I have AIDS?  Don't you worry?
GLORIA: You worry too much.
FAITH: (sultry) Why worry about something that can kill you in ten years when there are so many things that can kill you today?
GLORIA: How can we make you happy?
YURI: By leaving.
YURI: (providing a commentary) --that's the Beretta, comes with a 36 cartridge, easy-operating clip-- YURI (cont'd) (shocked) Jesus, why did you do that?
BAPTISTE: What did you say?
YURI: (feigning anger, gesturing at the gun) Now you're going to have to buy it. (grabbing the gun from Baptiste) It's a used gun.  I can't sell a used gun.
BAPTISTE: A used gun.  That's a good one. BAPTISTE (cant'd) (confiding in Yuri) There's no discipline with the young boys. I try to set an example but it's difficult. I blame the MTV. BAPTISTE (cont'd) Let me show you something.
YURI (V.O.): I had heard of the "Boy Brigades", "Small Boy Units", "Kalashnikov Kids".  The theory was that a bullet coming from a fourteen year old is just as effective as one trom a forty year old.
BAPTISTE: I can't pay your asking price, Yuri.  We are not a rich people and the market is already flooded with your Kalashnikovs.  In some places you can buy one for the price of a chicken.
YURI: You can't just look at the unit price.  You forget the ancillary costs.  End user certificates need to be forged and notarized, shell companies set up, insurance purchased, pilots and crews hired.  Not to mention the bribes.  You can't get a nut and bolt out of the Eastern bloc without a bribe.  There's one bribe for the nut. Another for the bolt.  This is an expensive proposition.
BAPTISTE: I pay in timber...or stones.
YURI: (regarding the stones) I'll take the stones.  It's hard to get a tree trunk in my hand luggage.
BAPTISTE: (referring to the inspection) Very professional, Lieutenant.
LIEUTENANT: (dismissing the troops) Dismissed!
YURI: I know you're planning a new offensive.  If you delay a week I can get you the armored personnel carriers we talked about.  They would give you a significant strategic advantage.
BAPTISTE: They say I am the lord of war.  But perhaps it is you.
YURI: (correcting him) It's not "lord of war".  It's "warlord".
BAPTISTE: I like it my way.
YURI (V.O.): Diamonds are far less bulky than hundred- dollar bills.  You can get a million dollars into a cigarette box.
YURI (V.O.): By the mid-nineties, my wealth had caught up to my lies about my wealth - even surpassed the lies.
AVA: Yuri, I just got off the phone with the dealer.  I sold my first painting.
YURI: (feigning surprise) Fantastic.  Who bought it?
AVA: Someone important.  They want to remain anonymous. (asking in a way that does not expect an answer) How was your trip?
YURI: You know.  Same old, same old. (quickly changing the subject) Where's Nicki, in bed?
AVA: I'm sorry.  Poor darling.  He tried to stay up.
YURI: I'll kiss him goodnight.
VITALY: (opening champagne) This calls for a drink.
YURI: What doesn't?
AVA: (still giddy at the news) My first painting.  I'm officially an artist!
YURI (V.O.): I figured I was a patron of the arts and of everything else Ava had tried and failed at after modelling.  Acting, her own cosmetics line.  I didn't sabotage her careers but I can't deny it was convenient for me in maintaining a low profile.  She was a beautiful bird in a gilded cage.
YURI: How are you, brother?
VITALY: (shrug) You know, still the resident family fuck-up.
YURI: Someone has to do it.
VITALY: She knows, right?
YURI: We don't talk about it. YURI (cont'd) (shrug) How many car salesmen talk about their work, how many executives at cigarette companies? And both of their products kill more people every year than mine.  At least mine has a safety switch.  If those guys can leave their work at the office, why can't I?
VITALY: Shit, you're good.  You almost had me convinced. (to his girlfriend, knocking back his drink) We're going, baby.
YURI: (raising his glass for a toast) To Manet, Monet...and Ava Cordova.
AVA: (gasp) Yuri!
YURI: (shrug) The trip went better than expected.
AVA: (fishing out the damp baubles) Yuri, they're beautiful. (flirtacious grin) But what am I going to wear them with?
YURI: (flirting back) I know just the outfit.
YURI (V.O.): I didn't know how much she knew and how much she ignored.  I was a good provider and as far as she was concerned - loyal.  Despite the other women, I always made love to Ava as if she was the only one.
YURI: (to the DRIVER) Take Park.
YURI: (to the Driver) This is good. YURI (cont'd) (to the Driver from the sidewalk) Take them on a tour of the Tri-State.
VALENTINE: Where in God's name is he going?  Is he lost?
AVA: (into phone) Vitaly...it's Ava.
YURI (V.O.): I was now the best merchant of death alive.  I didn't own my own plane.  I owned a fleet - running guns into Liberia, Sierra Leone or the Ivory Coast at least once a week. Unfortunately, my friends at Interpol were also starting to find West Africa on the map. Most trips I had phoney paperwork.  If the deadline was tight, I had no paperwork at all.
PILOT: (to his co-pilot) --Even taking into consideration the pay-off to the parents, a week with a girl in Burkina Faso is cheaper than a night with a girl in Jersey.
CO-PILOT: Plus, they're cleaner--
PILOT: --and a lot of them speak better English.
CO-PILOT: (shrug) Personally, I prefer a language barrier--
VALENTINE (O.C.): --Charlie, Echo, India.  Descend for landing on heading zero...two...nine.
YURI: (into phone, trying not to sound too desperate) Colonel Southern, it's Yuri.  Sorry to call you on this number but I've got an Interpol jet and--
COL. SOUTHERN: (into phone, measured voice) I can't know you right now.  It's not a good time.
YURI: (gaping at the phone in disbelief) Not a good time!
CO-PILOT: Motherfucker!
VALENTINE: (radio) --Charlie, Echo, India.  Comply immediately. That was your last warning.
YURI: Where was the first fucking warning?!
VALENTINE: (radio) Rock your wings if you intend to comply.
PILOT: (to Yuri, anxious) I'm putting us down.
YURI: (incredulous) You land and we're all going away!  I don't have paperwork!
PILOT: (incredulous) We're in a flying fucking bomb!  They're firing bullets at our bullets!  Forget about going away!  They shoot again, we're going away for good!  I'm putting us down.
YURI: (knowing he's right) Okay!  Okay!--Fuck!!
PILOT: (into radio) This is Charlie Echo India.  Descending on heading zero two nine.
YURI: (pointing out a narrow highway) Not the airport.  There.  The highway.  It's our only fucking hope.
PILOT: (concerned) A pothole could set us off.
YURI: Don't underestimate yourself.  You're the best, Tony.
INTERPOL PILOT: I can't land there.
VALENTINE: (to the pilot) He can't get far.  I want a truck waiting on the tarmac.
YURI: (to the pilots, sizing up the locals) We're going to be okay. YURI (cont'd) (calling out from the window) Where are you going?
PILOT: As far from the evidence as I can.
YURI: Wait, you idiots!  There's not going to be any evidence!  Stay with the plane!
YURI: (to the gathering locals) Help yourselves.  Be my guest.  No charge. YURI (cont'd) (to other locals) Take the whole crate.
YURI: (muttering under his breath, shutting off the calculator in disgust) What a fucking disaster.
YURI: Hey, not those!  You don't touch the plane! (plaintive moan) Not the fucking seats...
VALENTINE: Hey, you! VALENTINE (cont'd) (exasperated) Forget it.
MBIZI: You run from us. (flashing a machete in Yuri's face) Can you run with no legs?
VALENTINE: No, Mbizi.  No, no, no.
MBIZI: Let me disappear him, Mr.  Valentine.  He is a devil.  Let me disappear him.
VALENTINE: I can't do that.
MBIZI: Look where we are.  Who will know?
VALENTINE: We will.
MBIZI: Turn your back, Mr. Valentine.  I will go to hell to stop him.
VALENTINE: (gently) No. (to his Agents) Find the pilots. VALENTINE (cont'd) I've spent my whole career on the right side of the line.  You're the first man I've encountered who makes me seriously consider crossing it.
YURI: What's the charge?
VALENTINE: What are you doing in Sierra Leone?
YURI: I'm on safari.
VALENTINE: (referring to the bullet) Shooting wildebeests with submachine guns?
YURI: Are you with the park service?  Hunting without a license - is that the charge?
VALENTINE: You're trafficking arms.
YURI: Trading.  But without evidence who can say?
VALENTINE: Trade or traffic, you make a fortune by keeping the poorest people on the planet killing each other. (hesitates, unsure whether to waste his breath - wastes it anyway) Do you know why I do what I do? VALENTINE (cont'd) (ignoring him) There are more prestigious assignments, you know.  Keeping track of the nuclear arsenals.  You would think it more critical to world security.  It's not.  Nine out of ten war victims today are killed by assault rifles and other small arms - like yours. Those missiles just sit in their silos. Your AK-47 - it's the real weapon of mass destruction.
YURI: I don't want people dead, Agent Valentine. I admit, a shooting war is better for business.  But I'd prefer people to fire my guns and miss.  Just as long as they're firing. YURI (cont'd) I realize the unspeakable things that are done with my weapons.  I also understand the unspeakable things that are done with Williams Sonoma carving knives and Wilson baseball bats and they aren't taking those off the market any time soon.  People will always buy guns.  Why not mine? YURI (cont'd) Can I go?  You've got nothing on me-- (unable to resist) --but cuffs.
VALENTINE: I am legally permitted to hold you for twenty-four hours without charging you. VALENTINE (cont'd) You may ask, why do I bother to do that?  I can assure you, it is not because I enjoy your company.  And you may be surprised to learn that it is not for any vindictive motive.  No. The reason I delay you for every second of the permissible twenty-four hours, is that I am delaying your deadly trade and the deaths of your victims.  I don't think of it as taking a day from you but giving a day to them.  Some innocent man, woman or child somewhere has one more day on this earth because you are not free. VALENTINE (cont'd) See you in twenty-three hours and fifty five minutes.
VALENTINE: You'll be pleased to know your colleagues were no more co-operative than you. VALENTINE (cont'd) The locals got to them before we could. VALENTINE (cont'd) Handsome family.
VIVIAN: (pleasantly surprised) Yuri!  Yuri Orlov!
YURI: (giving her an embarrassed hug) Vivian...
VIVIAN: What are you doing here?
YURI: (approaching the window) You know.  Fighting the good fight.
VIVIAN: An aid program?
YURI: Uh, yes.  In fact, I've just had some transport problems.  You couldn't give me a ride to Monrovia, could you?
VIVIAN: Sure.  Climb in. VIVIAN (cant' d) We're pulling out.  It's too dangerous. It's a shame.  We were really doing some good things.
YURI: Jesus!  Simeon! YURI (cont'd) Andre!  What in heaven is he doing here?
ANDRE JNR.: A gift for you. ANDRE JNR. (cont'd) You got here just in time.  I was afraid he would die before you got a chance to kill him.
YURI: Me?!
ANDRE JNR.: Who do you think informed on you - cost you your plane?  He came to meet my father, hoping to take your place.
YURI: You stupid old fuck!
ANDRE JNR.: (knowing smile) He killed your man when he tried to kill you.
YURI: No.
ANDRE JNR.: (confused) You want us to let him go?
YURI: No.  No.  I...
ANDRE JNR.: So you do want him dead.  You just don't want to kill him yourself?  I understand.
ANDRE JNR.: We'll do it together.  A bonding experience.
ANDRE JNR.: You can stop if you want - but you do.  Just say the word. ANDRE JNR. (cont'd) Say, "stop".
YURI: (quietly) Stop.
ANDRE JNR.: (surveying the blood-spattered room) I'll get you another room with a nicer view.
YURI (V.O.): I started doing a lot of cocaine in West Africa.  I wasn't medicating myself.  I was simply playing catch-up.  I was constantly dealing with people who are chemically imbalanced without the aid of chemicals. It's just a matter of etiquette.  It's rude to act sane in a room full of lunatics.
BARMAN: He bought you "brown-brown", Mr. Yuri.
YURI: (wiping his nose) What?
BARMAN: "Brown-brown".
YURI: What is it?
BARMAN: (laughs) A mixture - cocaine and gunpowder.
YURI: What does the gunpowder do?
BARMAN: It's magic.  They give it to the small boys before battle - they do anything.
YURI: Some other time.
BARMAN: You have to try it at least once, Mr. Yuri.
YURI: Why?
BARMAN: (laughing) Because it's your gunpowder.
YURI: (to no one in particular, whipping his vodka bottle off the bar) I'm going for a walk.
YURI: (a mixture of French and English) I didn't fuck you, did I?  Did I fuck you?
PROSTITUTE: (in French, as she counts Yuri's money) It's not what I would call a fuck.
YURI: Are you sick? YURI (cont'd) (screaming) Are you sick?!
GIRL #1 (O.C.): They will!
GIRL #2 (O.C.): They won't!
GIRL #1 (O.C.): They will!
GIRL #2 (O.C.): They won't!
GIRL #1: They will!
GIRL #2: Ask the foreigner.  The foreigner will know.
YURI: Hello.
GIRL #1: Sir, will my fingers grow back?
YURI: Simeon. YURI (cont'd) Simeon!!
MAN #1: Don't.  He's Andre's.
MAN #2: (keeping his gun raised) Fuck Andre.
YURI: (seemingly beyond caring) Yeah, fuck Andre.
YURI: (referring to the gun) I'm sorry.  They don't usually do that.  Let me have a look.  Maybe I can fix it.
MAN #1: (disgusted) Fuck off!
ANDRE BAPTISTE: Yuri, you fucked up!  I am going to shoot your face off with your own gun.
YURI: (unfazed, regarding the man) Not bad.  Andre's latest double?
ANDRE BAPTISTE: (to Yuri, standing beside his uncanny double) How did you know?
YURI: He's too eloquent.
ANDRE BAPTISTE: You have no heart.
ANDRE BAPTISTE: Have you seen the news?  They accuse me of rigging elections, but after this in your Florida with your Supreme Court of kangaroos-- ANDRE BAPTISTE (cont'd) --now the U.S. must shut up forever.
YURI: More good news.  That's the last aid shipment.  The war is so bad, the U.N. is pulling out.
ANDRE BAPTISTE: Why is nothing happening?
ANDRE, JNR.: (reluctant to give his father bad news) No trucks.  They are trapped on the front lines.
YURI: There are trucks.  You just have to get all that food out of them.
ANDRE JNR.: Killing certain humans can be considered humanitarian. (thinly disguised reference to the previous night) Isn't that right, Mr. Yuri?
YURI (V.O.): After surviving the last few days I'd started to feel like I was invincible.  But there was a weapon that could hurt me.
AVA: Hush, Nicki. (to Valentine) I don't believe you. AVA (cont'd) Can you prove any of it?  Where is your evidence?
VALENTINE: I was hoping you could help us with that. (opens an old file containing a copy of a newspaper clipping, headlined, "Cordova Disappearance" ) I understand your parents died tragically in EI Salvador. (meeting Avars gaze) That regime has startling similarities to several of the regimes supplied by your husband.
AVA: Get out.
MASTER OF CEREMONIES: And now, one of the sponsors of tonight's evening, former Miss World, Ava Cordova.
YURI (O.C.): Ava?
YURI: Ava, what's wrong?  Where's Nicki?
AVA: (still with her back to us) He's with your parents.
YURI: Why aren't you dressed?  I thought we were going out.
AVA: (turning back to look at him) I can't wear the clothes.  I can't wear the jewelry.  I can't drive the car.  I can't live in this house.  Everything1s got blood on it.
YURI: Don't be so melodramatic.
AVA: Of course I'm melodramatic.  I'm a failed actress, remember?  We need to talk about it.
YURI: Why?  We never have before.
AVA: Now we do.
YURI: These people - you can't trust them--
AVA: --I've talked to your parents.  Why do you think they don't want your money?  They know where it comes from.  We all know.
YURI: I sell people a means to defend themselves, Ava.  That's all.  I don't hold a gun to any one's head and make them shoot--
AVA: --Yuri, I see the news.  Sierra Leone--
YURI: --I don't sell machetes.
AVA: --What do you think is pointing at the victims when they use those machetes?  I see the pictures.  Yuri, the guns are bigger than the boys.
YURI: (angered) There's nothing illegal about what I do.
AVA: I don't care if it's legal, it's wrong. AVA (cont' d) I can accept the drugs.  I can even accept the other women.  I can't accept this.
AVA: Please stop.
YURI: (looks back) It makes no difference if I stop.  Someone will take my place the next day.
AVA: Let them.  We have enough.  You're not that little boy in Odessa anymore, lining up for a loaf of bread--
YURI: --It's not about the money.
AVA: What is it? AVA (cont'd) I feel like all I've done my whole life is be pretty.  All I've done is be born.  I'm not just a failed actress.  I'm also a failed writer, failed artist, failed businesswoman.  I'm not much good as a mother.  Come to think of it, I'm not even that pretty any more.  I've failed at everything, Yuri. (turning back to him) But I won't fail as a human being.  I'm leaving.
YURI: You can't leave.  I'll stop. (as if trying to convince himself) I'll stop. YURI (cont'd) I've been thinking about it for a while.  A lot, lately. (as if trying to convince himself) I'm making more from the oil and timber anyhow. (further reassurance) I'll stop.
AVA: (pleading eyes) You will?  You promise?
YURI: (deadly serious) Yes. (changing the subject a millisecond too fast) Now get dressed.  We'll go out. YURI (cont'd) By the way, you're wrong about not being pretty any more.
YURI (V.O.): For the next month I stopped running guns. I went legitimate.
YURI (V.O.): No wonder Valentine was confused.
YURI (V.O.): Thank God there are still legal ways to exploit developing countries.
YURI (V.O.): But the only problem with an honest buck is they're so hard to make.  The margins are too low.  Too many people are doing it.
YURI: (into phone) --Impossible.  Two and a quarter?  I can't make a profit at two and a quarter.  Why don't you take my oil and I'll fucking pay you?
AVA: (confused) Yuri, the President of Liberia is in the lobby.
YURI: (glance to his watch) He's early.
ANDRE JNR.: (to the girls) --You should come to Liberia with me tomorrow.  It is beautiful this time of year.
TEENAGE GIRL: Liberia.  Is that on Long Island?
ANDRE JNR.: Yuri!
YURI: (nervous as hell) What the fuck are you doing here, Andre?
ANDRE BAPTISTE: (hugging Yuri) We're here for the peace talks at the U.N.
YURI: (pulling him out of earshot of the curious Doorman, anxious whisper) So at the same time you thought you'd drop in on your arms dealer?!
ANDRE BAPTISTE: Is that what you still are?  You're a hard man to get hold of all of a sudden.
ANDRE BAPTISTE: --But now you mention it, we are doing a little shopping while we're here - that is if you open for business.
YURI: (anxious look past Andre to the motorcade on the street) They've got to be watching.
ANDRE BAPTISTE: (disdainful shrug) Of course they blame me.  They always blame me.  They are on a--
YURI: (unable to resist) --hunt for a witch?
ANDRE BAPTISTE: (a smile, for once correcting Yuri) "Witch-hunt".  But I have been granted diplomatic immunity due to the escalation in hostilities. (conspiratorial) That is why I need you.  They are making life difficult to re-supply.  It will require a man of your unusual ingenuity.
YURI: I can't help you.  I'm sorry.
ANDRE BAPTISTE: (nods) I understand. ANDRE BAPTISTE (cont'd) But you should know that our present difficulties compel us to be unusually generous. ANDRE BAPTISTE (cont'd) (hugging Yuri) Farewell, Lord of War.
ANDRE JNR.: You still haven't brought me the gun of Rambo.
AVA: (looking up from the book) Was that about the oil or the timber?
YURI: Both.  Everything.
YURI (V.O.): At four and a half months a human fetus has a reptile's tail - a remnant of our evolution.
YURI (V.O.): You can fight a lot of enemies and survive but if you fight your biology you always lose.
YURI: Hey, not even waiting to say goodbye?  I'm leaving in ten minutes.
AVA: Sorry, Nicki has swim practice.
NICOLAI: Bye, Papa.
YURI: (hugging him) See you, big guy.
AVA: (teasing him) Personally, I'm glad you're going.  You've been here so long you're starting to get on my nerves.
YURI: (taking the teasing good- naturedly) This oil concession should be wrapped up by Thursday.  I'll be back for the weekend. We'll go somewhere - the sea.
AVA: That would be fun.
YURI: You trust me, right?
YURI (V.O.): She looked me directly in the eye the way I've looked in the eyes of a thousand customs officials, government bureaucrats and footsoldiers from every law enforcement agency in the world - and she lied without flinching.
AVA: Yes, I trust you.
YURI (V.O.): She'd learned from the best.
AVA (O.C.): (to the DRIVER) That's him.
NICOLAI: (confused) Where are we going, Mama?
AVA: It's a game.
NICOLAI: Like hide and seek?
AVA: Yes.
YURI (V.O.): I can always sense when I'm being tailed.  I know what to look for.  But then I'd never been tailed by the woman I love.
YURI (V.O.): I can put myself in Ava's place.  She might have understood if the combination was the last four digits of my social, my birthdate, even her birthdate but not Nicolai's.
YURI (V.O.): My son's birthday unlocked what the government would later describe as, "a catalogue of carnage".
AVA: (whisper, to herself) Not that.  Not that, Yuri.
VITALY: Come to see how the other half lives?
YURI: I miss your borscht.  Mom and Dad say you're clean.
VITALY: You too.  They said you went legitimate - hard to believe.
YURI: That's because it's not true.
YURI: Only you know.  I'm leaving tonight - on a job.  I want you to come.
VITALY: I can't.  I'm thinking of opening my own place.
YURI: Maybe this trip will help.  It's good money.
VITALY: (looking to his parents) I've given my word.
YURI: They don't have to know.  We'll tell them we're going for a little "r" and "r".
VITALY: Why do you need me all of a sudden?
YURI: West Africa's fucked-up. (off Vitaly's look) More than usual.  I can't trust anybody.  I need someone to watch my back. YURI (cant'd) "Brothers in arms".
YURI: (concerned by the route) Where are we going?
ANDRE JNR.: RUF - "freedom fighters".
YURI (V.O.): Every faction in Africa calls themselves by these noble names - "liberation-this", "patriotic-that", "democratic-republic-of- something or other".  I guess they can't own up to what they usually are - "federation- of-worse-oppressors-than-the last-bunch-of- oppressors".  Often the most barbaric atrocities occur when both combatants proclaim themselves "freedom fighters".
VITALY: Jesus.
VITALY: Yuri, I need to talk to you.
YURI: Not now.
VITALY: (insistent) Now.
YURI: (to the Rebel Leader) Excuse me.
YURI: (irritated by the interruption) What?
VITALY: (anxious whisper) We can't do this deal.
YURI: (incredulous) The fuck we can't.
VITALY: (referring to the camp) Look over there.  As soon as we leave, they're going to die.
YURI: (averting his eyes from the camp) It's not our business.
VITALY: (protesting) They killed a boy just now - as young as Nicki.
REBEL LEADER: What's the hold up?
YURI: (trying to keep his poise) There is no hold up.  I'll be right there. YURI (cont'd) Vitaly, it's what we always know - we can't control what they do.
VITALY: Today we can.  They're right there - close enough to touch.
YURI: (angry, impatient) What do you think they'll do if we back out - they'll kill us.
VITALY: And if we go ahead - they'll kill them.
REBEL LEADER: What is he saying?
YURI: Nothing.
VITALY: (resigned) Nothing.  You're right, Yuri.  You're right. (getting his head back in the game) Did I hear you say 300 IPG's, 500 assault rifles and 800 grenades?  I thought it was 1,200 grenades.  I'd better check.
ANDRE JNR.: What are you doing?
VITALY: Something for Yuri.
ANDRE JNR.: Step away - slowly.
YURI: Vit!! YURI (cont'd) No!!
YURI (V.O.): Vitaly broke the cardinal rule of gunrunning.  Never pick up a gun and join the customers.
YURI (V.O.): Coffins are hard to come by in Sierra Leone. Demand is so high.  Fortunately, we had a lot of boxes just the right size.
YURI (V.O.): I don't know which is worse, Jewish guilt or Catholic guilt.  My parents were like God's tag-team.
YURI (V.O.): But I could not deny them the chance to say goodbye to their eldest son.
YURI (V.O.): For twenty Monrovian dollars a doctor removed the lead from Vitaly's body and wrote a bogus death certificate.  I should have paid more.
YURI (V.O.): I've smuggled millions of rounds of ammunition and the bullet that lands me in jail is found under my dead brother's rib.
AGENT: (flashing some ID) Yuri Orlov, we're with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
YURI: (resigned smile, regarding the insignia on their jackets) Believe it or not, I only use the first two.
AGENT: You have the right to remain silent.  Use it.
ANATOLY: "Crimean Restaurant".
YURI (O.C.): Papa?
IRINA: (into phone) Both my sons are dead.
VALENTINE: One of yours? VALENTINE (cont'd) (referring to a document) Curiously, the death certificate says he died of heart failure.
YURI: (shrug) Maybe he did. (referring to the slug) If I saw one of those coming at me, l'd have heart failure.
VALENTINE: We performed the autopsy and released your brother's body to your family.  You tried to do something decent, Yuri.  You went against your nature.  And now it's cost you. (unable to resist) Your brother's funeral is looking a lot like your funeral.
YURI: Falsifying a death certificate?  That's not going to hold me.
VALENTINE: You're right, as usual. VALENTINE (cont'd) (putting a copy of the New York Times in front of Yuri) Have you seen today's paper? VALENTINE (cont'd) (pacing, lauding it over Yuri) Fake end-user certificates, cut-out companies, all meticulously catalogued. There's hardly a dictator, warlord or despot anywhere in the world you aren't on first name terms with. (producing another evidence bag containing Ava's diamond earrings and an engagement ring) Your trophy wife gave us the prize.  She also provided us with these - which we suspect are conflict diamonds. VALENTINE (cont'd) She has agreed to testify against you.
YURI: Enjoy it.
VALENTINE: (confused) What?
YURI: This.  Tell me that I am everything you despise, that I am the personification of evil, that I'm responsible for the breakdown of the social fabric of society and world order, that I am a one man genocide.  Say everything you want to say to me now - because you don't have long.
VALENTINE: Are you not paying attention or are you delusional?  You've broken every arms embargo written.  There's enough in those briefcases to buy you consecutive life sentences.  You'll spend ten years going from a cell to a courtroom before you even start doing your time. VALENTINE (cont'd) You don't seem to fully appreciate the seriousness of your situation!
YURI: (snapping back - his emotion finally showing) My family has disowned me.  My wife and son have left me.  My brother is dead.  Trust me, I fully appreciate the seriousness of my situation.  But I promise you I won't spend a single second in a courtroom.
VALENTINE: You are delusional.
YURI: I like you, Jack.  Well, maybe not.  But I understand you.  You feel your loyalty to your badge has finally been rewarded.  But you haven't counted on the people who gave you that badge. YURI (cont'd) (meeting Valentine's gaze) Let me tell you what's going to happen so you can prepare yourself. YURI (cont'd) Soon there's going to be a knock on that door and you're going to be called outside.
YURI (O.C.): In the hall there will be a man who outranks you.
YURI (O.C.): First, he will compliment you on the fine job you've done, how you're making the world a safer place and then he is going to tell you that I am to be released.
YURI (O.C.): You are going to protest, you will probably threaten to resign.
YURI (O.C.): But in the end I will be released.
YURI: (glancing to the open newspaper) The reason I'll be released is the same reason you think I will be convicted.  I do rub shoulders with the most vile, sadistic men calling themselves leaders today. (referring to the newspaper) But some of those men are the enemies of your enemies. YURI (cont'd) And while the biggest arms dealer in the world is your boss, the President of the United States - who ships more merchandise in a day than I do in a year - sometimes it's embarrassing to have his fingerprints on the guns.  Sometimes he needs a freelancer like me to supply opposition forces he can't be seen supplying.  You call me evil, but, unfortunately for you, I am a necessary evil.
VALENTINE: I would tell you to go to hell.  But I think you're already there.
YURI: What if I'm not?  What if I sleep fine at night?  What if I sleep better than you? I think that's what truly scares you.
YURI (V.O.): Most people are happy just to get out of jail.  I expect to be paid to leave.
YURI (V.O.): I'm not a fool.  I know that just because they need me one day doesn't mean they won't make me a scapegoat the next.  But I was back doing what I do best.
BORDER OFFICER: (skeptical) Umbrellas - to Saudi Arabia?
YURI: Sun umbrellas.
BORDER OFFICER: Have a safe trip.
YURI: For someone who's never fired a gun or been in a battle, I have suffered many casualties in my life.  I guess that's how I survived.  I never went to war... YURI (cont'd) ...especially with myself.
