GANDHI: Written by John Briley
MANU: ( gently ) Brother Bapu is already late for
GANDHI: Oh, God. oh, God.
DAY: Commentators from all over the world are covering the ceremony. We concentrate on one, let us say the most distinguished American broadcaster of the time, Edward R. Murrow, who sits on the makeshift platform, a microphone marked "CBS" before him, describing the procession as technicians and staff move quietly around him.
MURROW: ( clipped, weighted ) .The object of this massive tribute died as he had always lived a private man without wealth, without property, without official title or
NIGHT: Featuring the young Indian. It is the young Gandhi a full head of hair, a somewhat sensuous face, only the eyes help us to identify him as the man we saw at Birla House, the figure on the bier in Delhi. He is lost in his book and there is a slight smile on his face as though what he reads intrigues and surprises him. He grins suddenly at some insight, then looks out of the window, weighing the idea. As he does the European passes the compartment and stops dead on seeing an Indian face in the First Class section. The porter glances at the European nervously. Gandhi pivots to the porter, holding his place in the book, missing the European, who has moved on down the corridor, altogether. We see the cover of the book: The Kingdom of God is Within You, by Leo Tolstoy.
GANDHI: Tell me do you think about hell?
PORTER: ( stares at him blankly ) ( the eternal, earnest sophomore ) No neither do I. But. ( he points abruptly to the book ) but this man is a Christian and he has written
GANDHI: ( the eternal, earnest sophomore ) No neither do I. But. ( he points abruptly to the book ) but this man is a Christian and he has written
PORTER: Excuse me, baas, but how long have you been in South Africa?
GANDHI: ( puzzled ) A a week.
PORTER: Well, I don't know how you got a ticket for Here coolie, just what are you doing in this car? Why I I have a ticket. A First Class ticket.
CONDUCTOR: Here coolie, just what are you doing in this car? Why I I have a ticket. A First Class ticket.
GANDHI: Why I I have a ticket. A First Class ticket.
CONDUCTOR: How did you get hold of it?
GANDHI: I sent for it in the post. I'm an attorney, and I didn't have time to There are no colored attorneys in South Africa. Go and sit where you I'll take your luggage back, baas.
EUROPEAN: There are no colored attorneys in South Africa. Go and sit where you I'll take your luggage back, baas.
PORTER: I'll take your luggage back, baas.
GANDHI: No, no just a moment, please.
GANDHI: You see, Mohandas K. Gandhi, Attorney at Law. I am going to Pretoria to conduct a case for an Indian trading Didn't you hear me? There are no colored attorneys in South Africa!
EUROPEAN: Didn't you hear me? There are no colored attorneys in South Africa!
GANDHI: Sir, I was called to the bar in London and enrolled in the High Court of Chancery I am therefore an attorney, and since I am in your eyes colored I think we can deduce that there is at least one colored attorney in South Africa.
EUROPEAN: Smart bloody kaffir throw him
CONDUCTOR: You move your damn sammy carcass back to third class or I'll have you thrown off at the next station.
GANDHI: ( anger, a touch of panic ) I always go First Class! I have traveled all over England and I've
GANDHI: But you're a rich man why do you put up with it?
KHAN: ( a shrug ) I'm rich but I'm Indian. I therefore do not expect to travel First Class. In England, I was a poor student but
GANDHI: In England, I was a poor student but
I: That was England. This part of "England's" Empire!
KHAN: That was England. This part of "England's" Empire!
GANDHI: This part of "England's" Empire!
SINGH: Mr. Gandhi, you look at Mr. Khan and see a successful Muslim trader. The South Africans see him simply as an Indian. And the vast majority of Indians mostly Hindu like yourself were brought here to work the mines and harvest the crops and the Europeans don't want them doing anything else.
GANDHI: But that is very un-Christian.
TYEB MOHAMMED: Mr. Gandhi, in this country Indians are not allowed to walk along a pavement with a "Christian"!
GANDHI: You mean you employ Mr. Baker as your attorney, but you can't walk down the street with him?
KHAN: I can. But I risk being kicked into the gutter by someone less "holy" than Mr. Baker. Well, then, it must be fought. We are children of God like everyone Allah be praised. And what battalions will you call upon?
GANDHI: Well, then, it must be fought. We are children of God like everyone Allah be praised. And what battalions will you call upon?
KHAN: ( dryly ) Allah be praised. And what battalions will you call upon?
GANDHI: I I will write to the press here and in England. And I will use the courts.
SINGH: You will make a lot of trouble. We are members of the Empire. And we come from an ancient civilization. Why should we not walk on the pavements like other men?
GANDHI: We are members of the Empire. And we come from an ancient civilization. Why should we not walk on the pavements like other men?
KHAN: I rather like the idea of an Indian barrister in South Africa. I'm sure our community could keep you in work for some time, Mr. Gandhi even if you caused a good deal of trouble. Especially if you caused a good deal of trouble.
GANDHI: There's the English reporter. I told you he'd come.
KHAN: You also said your article would draw a thousand people. At least some of the Hindus brought their wives.
GANDHI: No. I asked my wife to organize that.
SINGH: ( alarmed ) Some of them are leaving.
GANDHI: Ladies and Gentlemen, we have asked you to gather here to help us proclaim our right to be treated as equal citizens of the Empire.
GANDHI: We do not seek conflict. We know the strength of the forces arrayed against us, know that because of them we can only use peaceful means but we are determined that justice will be
GANDHI: The symbol of our status is embodied in this pass which we must carry at all times, but no European even has to have.
GANDHI: And the first step to changing our status is to eliminate this difference between us.
KHAN: ( quietly ) You write brilliantly, but you have much to learn about handling men.
KHAN: ( the reading not fluent, but firm and pointed ) We do not want to ignite. the fear or hatred of anyone. But we ask you Hindu, Muslim and Sikh to help us light up the sky. and the minds of the British authorities with our defiance of this injustice. We will now burn the passes of our committee and its supporters. We ask you to put your passes on the fire Oh, no, you bloody well don't!
KHAN: We will now burn the passes of our committee and its supporters. We ask you to put your passes on the fire Oh, no, you bloody well don't!
POLICE SERGEANT: Oh, no, you bloody well don't!
POLICE SERGEANT: Those passes are government property! And I will arrest the first man who tries to burn one!
POLICE SERGEANT: Take him away!
POLICE SERGEANT: Now are there any more?!
POLICE SERGEANT: You little sammy bastard I
POLICE SERGEANT: You want that kind of trouble you can have it!
BA: Let me go!
SERGEANT: An instant of hesitation, then Gandhi drops the card into the basket. The sergeant almost stops, but he strikes again. A quiver of distaste at his own act crosses his face as Gandhi Ba's anguished face is wet with tears. The newspaper reporter stares without making notes. Khan, at the paddy wagon, watches in wonder. Gandhi, his head bleeding badly now, rises to his knees a breath and he gropes around the ground for another card. His fingers finally clutch one. The sergeant stares, his face wracked with uncertainty and Gandhi lifts the card and painfully holds it over the fire, then drops it in the basket. The sergeant slams the billy club down again firmly, but with a manifest reluctance. The crowd watches breathlessly, the newspaper reporter stares. The sergeant draws a breath, grasping the club, but he bites his lip as he sees Gandhi lift his head feebly, his shaking hands, stained with his own blood, groping for another card.
GANDHI: You saved the papers.
BA: I wish you were still struggling for work in Bombay.
GANDHI: I hated that all the pettiness, the little corruptions. And I was more laughing stock than
GANDHI: But they needed me here. If I'd never been thrown off that train, perhaps no one would ever have needed me.
GANDHI: ( reading ) "A high court judge has confirmed that Mr. Gandhi would have been within his rights to prosecute for assault since neither he nor Mr. Khan resisted arrest." I told you about English As I told you about English policemen.
BA: As I told you about English policemen.
GANDHI: A small, round ayah ( an Indian nursemaid ) pushes open the door and proudly admits her charges, Gandhi's sons: Harilal ( ten ), Manilal ( six ) and Ramdas ( two ). They are all dressed in European suits, ties and stiff collars. They step forward, one by one, making the pranam ( the Hindu gesture of greeting ), then bending and touching the hands and lips to Gandhi's feet in the traditional obeisance of child to father.
HARILAL: We are glad to have you back, Bapu.
GANDHI: And I am glad to be back.
BA: Be careful!
GANDHI: Tomorrow I will tell you what it feels like to be a jailbird. Come. Come.
AYAH: Come. Come.
GANDHI: Just like proper English gentlemen. I'm proud of them.
BA: They are boys. And they're Indian.
GANDHI: Hm. Will you take this off? It pinches every time I speak.
GANDHI: Here, you see? Even the South African papers apologize "a monstrous Are you sure?
BA: ( of the tape, as she is about to pull it ) Are you sure?
GANDHI: ( impatiently ) Yes I can't talk like this.
GANDHI: Ba pulls one of the strands of tape and Gandhi flinches.
GANDHI: ( mockingly ) Mr. Khan said they called you brave.
BA: ( mockingly ) Mr. Khan said they called you brave.
GANDHI: If you would let me teach you to read, you could see for yourself.
BA: I could have told them you were merely
GANDHI: It proves what I told you. If I had prosecuted him as everyone advised even you they would have hated me by showing forgiveness I ouch!
BA: And she slowly pries the gauze free from the strands of hair above his lip. As she does Gandhi watches her more and more intently, and slips his arms around her back.
GANDHI: ( as though continuing the argument ) You see there is such a thing as moral force and it can be
BA: Not always. You have told me twice now that you were giving up the pleasures of the flesh.
GANDHI: I am. I am convinced the holy men are right. When you give up, you gain. The simpler your life the
GANDHI: I will fast tomorrow as a penance.
BA: If you enjoy it a great deal you must fast for two days.
SMUTS: Yes ?
SMUTS: Did they? Well, they'll find we're a little better prepared this time. Mr. Gandhi will find he's on a long hiding to nothing.
CHARLIE: You'd be Gandhi .I thought you'd be bigger.
GANDHI: I'm sorry.
CHARLIE: I I mean it's all right. It doesn't I'm my name is Andrews, Charlie Andrews. I've come from India I've read a great deal about you.
GANDHI: Some of it good, I hope. Would you care to walk?
GANDHI: ( to Charlie ) Would you care to walk?
GANDHI: ( noting Charlie's collar ) You're a clergyman.
CHARLIE: Yes. I've I've met some very remarkable people in India. and and when I read what you've been doing here, I I wanted to help. Does that surprise you?
GANDHI: Not anymore. At first I was amazed. but when you are fighting in a just cause, people seem to pop up like you right out of the pavement. Even when it is dangerous or
FIRST YOUTH: Hey look what's comin'!
SECOND YOUTH: A white shepherd leading a brown Perhaps I should
CHARLIE: Perhaps I should
GANDHI: Doesn't the New Testament say, "If your enemy strikes you on the right cheek, offer him the left"?
CHARLIE: I think perhaps the phrase was used metaphorically. I don't think our Lord meant
GANDHI: I'm not so certain. I have thought about it a great deal. I suspect he meant you must show courage be willing to take a blow several blows to show you will not strike back nor will you be turned aside. And when
GANDHI: .and when you do that it calls upon something in human nature something that makes his hate for you diminish and his respect increase. I think Christ grasped that and I I have seen it work.
GANDHI: Good morning.
FIRST YOUTH: Get off the pavement, you bloody
FIRST YOUTH: Nuthing. nuthing. We were just cleaning up the neighborhood a little.
COLIN'S MOTHER: You're already late for work. I thought you'd gone ten minutes ago.
GANDHI: You'll find there's room for us both.
CHARLIE: ( relieved ) That was lucky.
GANDHI: I thought you were a man of God.
CHARLIE: ( wittily, but making his point ) I am. But I'm not so egotistical as to think He plans His day around my
GANDHI: .you could call it a "communal farm," I suppose. But we've all come to the same conclusion our Gita, the Muslim's Koran or your Bible it's always the simple things that catch your breath "Love thy neighbor as thyself" not always practiced but it's something we Hindus could learn a lot from.
CHARLIE: That's the sort of thing you'll be seeking on this "farm".
GANDHI: ( a smile ) Well, we shall try.
SONJA: They're going to change the pass
SECOND VOICE: Just one second, sir, please.
SMUTS: But on a short trip, I wouldn't spend too much time on the Indian question, Mr. Walker. It's a tiny factor in South African life. It's news at the moment. I will certainly report on your mines and the economy but I would like to meet this Mr. Gandhi.
WALKER: ( a helpless shrug ) It's news at the moment. I will certainly report on your mines and the economy but I would like to meet this Mr. Gandhi.
SMUTS: Of course. We Westerners have a weakness for these these spiritually inclined men of India. But as an old lawyer, let me warn you, Mr. Gandhi is as shrewd a man as you will ever meet, however "otherworldly" he may seem. But I'm sure you're enough of a reporter to see that.
GANDHI: .so it's not "spiritualism" or "nationalism" we're not against anything but the idea that people can't live together. You see Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Jews even Christians.
GANDHI: You see Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Jews even Christians.
GANDHI: Mr. Walker! Of The New York Times!
GANDHI: Without a paper a journal of some kind you cannot unite a community. You belong to a very important Hm. And what should an "important professional" write about your response to General Smuts's new I don't know. I'm still searching for a "response."
WALKER: Hm. And what should an "important professional" write about your response to General Smuts's new I don't know. I'm still searching for a "response."
GANDHI: I don't know. I'm still searching for a "response."
WALKER: ( a leading question ) You will respect the law.
GANDHI: ( a beat ) There are unjust laws as there are unjust men. You're a very small minority to take on the Government and the Empire.
WALKER: You're a very small minority to take on the Government and the Empire.
GANDHI: If you are a minority of one, the truth is the truth.
GANDHI: This is Mr. Kallenbach. He is our chief carpenter and also our chief benefactor. He has made this experiment possible.
WALKER: Well, it's quite a place, your "ashram" is that right?
GANDHI: That's right. The word only means "community." But it could stand for "village". or the world.
WALKER: You're an ambitious man.
GANDHI: ( uncertainly ) I hope not.
WALKER: They tell me you also take your turn at peeling potatoes and cleaning the "outhouse" is that part of the
GANDHI: ( a little surprised, a little annoyed ) Ba we will need another place set for Mr. Walker's driver.
BA: I will tell Sora.
GANDHI: It's one way to learn that each man's labor is as important as another's. In fact when you're doing it, "cleaning the outhouse" seems far more important than the law.
GANDHI: Please come and join us you'll need something before your journey Excuse me a moment.
GANDHI: What is it?
BA: Sora was sent to tell me I I must rake and cover the latrine.
GANDHI: Everyone takes his turn.
BA: It is the work of untouchables.
GANDHI: In this place there are no untouchables and no work is beneath any of us!
BA: ( she looks up at him ) I am your wife.
GANDHI: All the more reason.
BA: ( finally, scornfully ) As you command.
BA: The others may follow you but you forget, I knew you when you were a
GANDHI: It's not me. It's the principle. And you will do it with joy or not do it at all!
BA: Not at all then.
GANDHI: All right, go! You don't belong here! Go! Leave the ashram! Get out altogether! We don't want you! Stop it! Stop it! What are you doing!? Have you no shame? I'm your wife. Where do you expect me to go?
BA: Stop it! Stop it! What are you doing!? Have you no shame? I'm your wife. Where do you expect me to go?
BA: ( bitterly ) Have you no shame? I'm your wife. ( Like lead ) Where do you expect me to go?
GANDHI: What is the matter with me.?
BA: ( a beat ) You are human only human.
BA: And it is even harder for those of us who do not even want to be as good as you do.
GANDHI: I apologize.
GANDHI: I must go back to that reporter.
BA: .And I must rake and cover the
GANDHI: ( to the house ) I want to welcome you all!
GANDHI: Every one of you. We have no secrets.
GANDHI: Let us begin by being clear about General Smuts's new law. All Indians must now be fingerprinted like criminals. Men and women. No marriage other than a Christian marriage is considered valid. Under this Act our wives and mothers are whores. And every man here a
KHAN: He's become quite good at this.
GANDHI: And a policeman passing an Indian dwelling I will not call them homes may enter and demand the card or any Indian woman whose dwelling it is.
A VOICE: God damn them!
GANDHI: Understand! He does not have to stand at the door he may enter.
MERCHANT: I swear to Allah I will kill the man who offers that insult to my home and my wife! And let them hang me! I say talk means nothing. Kill a few officials before they disgrace one Indian woman then they might think twice about such laws!
TYEB MOHAMMED: I say talk means nothing. Kill a few officials before they disgrace one Indian woman then they might think twice about such laws!
GANDHI: I praise such courage. I need such courage because in this cause, I too am prepared to die. But, my friend, there is no cause for which I am prepared to kill.
GANDHI: I have asked you here tonight because despite all their troops and police, I think there is a way to defeat this law. Whatever they do to us we will attack no one, kill no one. But we will not give our fingerprints not one of
GANDHI: They will imprison us, they will fine us. They will seize our possessions. But they cannot take away our self-respect if we do not give it to them.
GANDHI: I am asking you to fight ! To fight against their anger not to provoke it!
GANDHI: We will not strike a blow but we will receive them. And through our pain we will make them see their and it will hurt, as all fighting .But we cannot lose. We cannot. Because they may torture my body, may break my bones, even kill me. They will then have my dead body not my obedience.
GANDHI: We are Hindu and Muslim children of God, each of us. Let us take a solemn oath in His name that come what may we will not submit to this law.
GANDHI: ( a coarse singing ) God save our gracious King. Long live our ( the audience takes it up ) .noble King. ( And their voices fill the auditorium ) God save the King!!
CIVILIAN: These men are contracted laborers. They belong in the mines.
GANDHI: You have put their comrades in jail. When you free them they will go back to work. I've warned you.
CIVILIAN: I've warned you.
GANDHI: We have warned each other.
SINGH: I don't think that is very good.
SERGEANT: At the canter for-ward!
MINER: ( half to Gandhi ) We should lie down the horses won't tramp on us. ( Then shouting out ) Down! Down! Everyone lie down!
GANDHI: Lie down! Lie down!
MINER: The horses have more mercy than the
SERGEANT: You're right!
GANDHI: Lie down! Lie down!
SERGEANT: Follow me! What the hell are we supposed to do Let them march. In our own sweet time, in our own sweet way we'll get them.
SERGEANT: What the hell are we supposed to do Let them march. In our own sweet time, in our own sweet way we'll get them.
CIVILIAN: ( watching the procession narrowly ) Let them march. In our own sweet time, in our own sweet way we'll get them.
CHARLIE: Some of you may be rejoicing that Mr. Gandhi has at last been put into
CHARLIE: But I would ask you assembled here in this house of God to recognize that we are witnessing something new, something so unexpected, so unusual that it is not surprising the Government is at a loss. What Mr. Gandhi has forced us to do is ask questions about
CHARLIE: As Christians, those are difficult questions to answer. How do we treat men who defy an unjust law men who will not fight, but will not
GANDHI: They're sparing no one, I see.
KHAN: No. You were the surprise. It's been all over the prison. We thought they'd be too afraid of the English press.
GANDHI: So did I.
KHAN: ( acidly ) Don't worry about the meat it's ( referring to the soup ) there's not a trace. I don't know who they've left out there to do the work. There can't be one mine left open. Have they touched the women?
KHAN: I don't know who they've left out there to do the work. There can't be one mine left open. Have they touched the women?
GANDHI: My wife publicly defied the law. They've arrested her and four others.
KHAN: ( angrily ) The fools! ( He spills some soup. ) It's split the Government.
GANDHI: It's split the Government.
KHAN: Well, that's one victory.
GANDHI: If we hold firm, it won't be the Don't worry I've never seen men so determined. You've given them a way to fight. And I don't think
KHAN: Don't worry I've never seen men so determined. You've given them a way to fight. And I don't think
PRISON OFFICER: Gandhi! I want Gandhi! Which sammy is it?
SMUTS: Ah, Mr. Gandhi. I thought we might have a little talk.
SMUTS: Will you have a glass of sherry?
GANDHI: Thank you. No.
SMUTS: Perhaps some tea?
GANDHI: ( a shake of the head ) I dined at the prison.
SMUTS: He appraises Gandhi, measuring the irony of his words, his determination. Then with a little sigh at the lost opportunity he replaces the stopper on the sherry, turns and gestures Gandhi on into the room.
SMUTS: Please please do come and sit down. It's prison I wanted to talk to you about.
SMUTS: Mr. Gandhi, I've more or less decided to ask the House to repeal the Act that you have taken such "exception" Well, if you ask, General Smuts, I'm sure it will be done.
GANDHI: ( a beat ) Well, if you ask, General Smuts, I'm sure it will be done.
SMUTS: Hm. Of course it is not quite that Somehow I expected not.
GANDHI: Somehow I expected not.
SMUTS: I'm glad to hear you say that. very glad. You see if we repeal the Act under pressure under this kind of pressure it will create a great deal of resentment. Can you understand that?
GANDHI: Very well.
SMUTS: ( a bit surprised ) Good. Good. ( The bland politician: the compromise. ) I have thought of calling for a Royal Commission to "investigate" the new ( He gestures, implying they'll do what they're told. ) I think I could guarantee they would recommend the Act be repealed.
GANDHI: ( waiting for the catch ) I congratulate them. But they might also recommend that future Indian immigration be severely restricted even stopped.
SMUTS: But they might also recommend that future Indian immigration be severely restricted even stopped.
GANDHI: Immigration was not an issue on which we fought. It would be wrong of us to make it one now that we we are in a position of advantage.
SMUTS: You're an extraordinary man.
GANDHI: ( his grin; he brushes at his prison garb ) I assure you I feel a very ordinary man at this moment.
SMUTS: I'm ordering the release of all prisoners within the next twenty- four hours. You yourself are free from this moment.
SMUTS: Assuming we are in agreement?
GANDHI: Yes yes. It's just that. in these clothes I'd I'd prefer to go by taxi.
SMUTS: ( confused by his hesitation ) All right. Fine.
GANDHI: I'm I'm afraid I have no money.
SMUTS: ( He quickly feels in his waistcoat pockets and realizes he has no money! ) Neither have I. ( He reaches forth and touches a buzzer. ) I'm awfully sorry.
SMUTS: Daniels, would you lend Mr. Gandhi a shilling for a taxi?
DANIELS: I beg your pardon, sir?
SMUTS: ( a second thought ) How far will you be going, Mr. Gandhi?
GANDHI: ( a mischievous smile ) Well now that this is settled I had thought seriously of going back to India ( he faces the startled Daniel ) but a shilling will do splendidly for the moment.
GANDHI: Thank you. Thank you both for a very enlightening
GANDHI: ( ice ) I'm obliged, Mr. Daniels, but I will find my own way out.
SMUTS: ( a shake of the head ) He's either a great man or a colossal fraud. Either way, I shall be glad to see the last of him.
YOUNG ENGLISHMAN: By God, he loves it.
SECOND ENGLISHMAN: I'm sure he hates it.
SECOND ENGLISHMAN: Generals' reputations are being made in France today, fighting on the Western Front. Not as Military Governors in India. What the devil's going on back there?
SECOND ENGLISHMAN: What the devil's going on back there?
YOUNG ENGLISHMAN: It must be that Indian that made all that fuss back in Africa. My cabin boy told me he was on board.
SECOND ENGLISHMAN: Why haven't we seen him? Yes. That's it. He was traveling Third Class. There he is.
YOUNG ENGLISHMAN: Yes. That's it. He was traveling Third Class. There he is.
YOUNG ENGLISHMAN: After he came out of jail he refused to wear European clothes.
GANDHI: No, no, I haven't "refused". I I simply wanted to dress the way my comrades in prison dressed.
ENGLISH JOURNALIST: Will you support the war effort, Mr.
GANDHI: I I have demanded rights as a British citizen, it is therefore my duty to help in the defense of the British Empire.
AMERICAN REPORTER: What are you going to do now that you're back in India?
GANDHI: I don't know. I don't know.
NEHRU: Please, Mr. Gandhi.
BA: My dignity comes from following my
NEHRU: ( he too speaks with an Oxbridge accent ) Just a few words then we'll get you to civilization.
GANDHI: I I am glad to be home. I I thank you for your greeting. We'll follow with your wife don't worry, everything's arranged.
NEHRU: We'll follow with your wife don't worry, everything's arranged.
GANDHI: Who is that young man?
PATEL: That's young Nehru. He's got his father's intellect, his mother's looks and the devil's charm. If they don't ruin him at Cambridge Wave! Wave! he may amount to something.
PATEL: I must say when I first saw you as a bumbling lawyer here in Bombay I never thought I'd be greeting you as a national hero.
GANDHI: I'm hardly that, Mr. Patel.
PATEL: Oh, yes, you are. It's been two hundred years since an Indian has cocked a snoot at the British Empire and got away with it. And stop calling me Mr. Patel, you're not a junior clerk anymore.
GANDHI: ( a beat; still hesitant )
PATEL: The new Military Governor of the North West Province was on that ship. Too bad you came back Third Class he might have been impressed by a successful barrister who had outmaneuvered General Smuts.
GANDHI: ( leadenly ) Yes. I'm sure.
MRS. NEHRU: ( wittily ) No, I leave practical matters to my husband and revolution to my son.
NEHRU: Mr. Jinnah, our joint host, member of Congress, and the leader of the Muslim League and Mr. Prakash, who I fear is awaiting trial for sedition and inducement to murder.
PRAKASH: I have not actually pulled a trigger, Mr. Gandhi, I have simply written that if an Englishman kills an Indian for disobeying his law, then it is an Indian's duty to kill an Englishman for enforcing his law in a land that is not his.
GANDHI: It is a clever argument; I am not sure it will produce the end you
JINNAH: ( testingly ) We hope you intend to join us in the struggle for Home Rule, Mr. Gandhi.
GANDHI: ( a pause )
I: Charlie Andrews touches Gandhi's arm, excusing himself to the others.
CHARLIE: May I? Mohan I would like you to meet someone.
NEHRU: He told the press he would support the British in the war.
PRAKASH: ( acidly ) That's non-violence for you.
JINNAH: Is he a fool?
NEHRU: I'm not certain. But I wouldn't be
CHARLIE: I lied to you, Mohan, when I told you I decided to come to South Africa to meet you. Professor Gokhale sent
GOKHALE: We're trying to make a nation, Gandhi and the British keep trying to break us up into religions and principalities and "provinces." What you were writing in South Africa that's what we need here.
GANDHI: ( a smile ) I have much to learn about India. And I have to begin my practice again one needs money to run a journal.
GOKHALE: ( He turns to Charlie ) Go on, Charlie. This is Indian talk we want none of you imperialists.
CHARLIE: ( a mock threat ) All right I'll go and write my report to the Viceroy.
GOKHALE: Go and find a pretty Hindu woman and convert her to Christianity that's as much mischief as you're allowed.
GOKHALE: Forget your practice. India has many men with too much wealth it is their privilege to nourish the efforts of the few who can raise India from servitude and apathy. I will see to it you begin your journal.
GANDHI: I have little to say. India is an "alien" country to me.
GOKHALE: Well, change that. Go and find India. Not what you see here, but the real India. You'll see what needs to be said. What we need to hear.
GOKHALE: When I saw you in that tunic I knew. I knew I could die in peace. Make India proud of herself.
TROOP LEADER: Clear the way! Get out of the way!
GANDHI: ( at first distant, as from the hill ) I ask you to pray for those who died. ( Closer ) For the English soldiers. ( a murmur ) who were doing what they thought was ( Closer ) And for the brave terrorists whose patriotism led them to do what was
GANDHI: It is not my law, it is the law of creation. We reap what we sow. Out there in the fields and in our hearts. Violence sows hatred, and the will to revenge. In them. And in
PATEL: I agree with Jinnah. Now that the Americans are in, the war will end soon. The Germans are worn out as it and our first act should be to convene a Congress Party convention and demand
JINNAH: And we must speak with one voice
PATEL: ( it reminds him ) Ah we should invite Gandhi. What the devil has happened to him anyway?
NEHRU: He's "discovering" India.
JINNAH: ( cynically ) Which is a lot better than causing trouble where it matters. Invite him let him say his piece about South Africa and then let him slip into
BA: ( quietly, private ) Please! You're being foolish!
GANDHI: There's no room! And the air is
CHARLIE: No violence, please.
GANDHI: Let me hang on with two hands or I will fall.
INDIAN: ( over the sound of the engine ) Englishman Sahib!
INDIAN: Come! Come! There is room!
FIRST INDIAN: ( to Charlie ) Place the foot on the window. ( amused, but disconcerted ) What are you doing?
GANDHI: ( amused, but disconcerted ) What are you doing?
CHARLIE: ( grimly ) Going nearer to God!
BA: Charlie! Be careful!!
CHARLIE: ( desperately ) Mohan !!
GANDHI: Let go! You'll kill him!
GANDHI: Let go! Let go!
FIRST INDIAN: You see most comfortable.
BA: Please, God, no!
SECOND INDIAN: ( grinning ) Are you Christian, Sahib?
CHARLIE: ( nods ) Yes, yes, I'm a Christian.
SECOND INDIAN: ( proudly ) I know a Christian. ( Charlie acknowledges it politely. ) She drinks blood.
SECOND INDIAN: ( explaining obvious ) The blood of Christ every Sunday!
GANDHI'S VOICE: ( alarmed )
FIRST INDIAN: It's all right, Sahib! Very safe bend bend!
THE TUNNEL: Black. A glimmer of light, through steam, the whistle echoing.
INDIAN'S VOICE: Pray to God, Sahib! Now is when it is best to be Hindu!
JINNAH: ( gradually fading in ) We were asked for toleration. We were asked for patience. Some gave it and some did not. Well, their war is over! And those of us who supported it, and those of us who refused must forget our differences!
JINNAH: And there can be no excuses from the British now! India wants Home Rule! India demands Home Rule!!
PATEL: And let no one question that Mr. Jinnah speaks not just for the Muslims but for all India!
PATEL: And now I'm going to introduce to you a man whose writings we are all becoming familiar with. a man who stood high in the esteem of our beloved Professor Gokhale. a man whose accomplishment in South Africa will always be remembered. Mr. Mohandas Gandhi.
PATEL: ( politely ) Your journal has made a great impact.
GANDHI: I am flattered by Mr. Patel I would be even more flattered if what he said were true.
PATEL: ( loudly; he is away from the mike ) But it's true! I I read it.
GANDHI: Since I returned from South Africa, I have traveled over much of India. And I know I could travel many more years and still only see a small part of it.
GANDHI: .and yet already I know what we say here means nothing to the masses of our country.
GANDHI: Here we make speeches for each other and those English liberal magazines that may grant us a few lines.
GANDHI: But the people of India are untouched. Their politics are confined to bread and salt.
GANDHI: Illiterate they may be, but they are not blind. They see no reason to give their loyalty to rich and powerful men who simply want to take over the role of the British in the name of freedom.
GANDHI: This Congress tells the world it represents India. My brothers, India is seven hundred thousand "villages" not a few hundred lawyers in Delhi and Bombay. Until we stand in the fields with the millions who toil each day under the hot sun, we will not represent India nor will we ever be able to challenge the British as one nation.
NEHRU: Have you read his magazine?
PATEL: No but I think I'm going to.
FIRST FRIEND: This can't be the way!
SECOND FRIEND: ( a mocking quote ) Yes, I'm sure this is the direction India is taking.
SECOND FRIEND: To think I almost got excited by Mr. Jinnah when all this was awaiting
NEHRU: We're looking for Mr. Gandhi!
CHARLIE: Ah, you'll find him under the tree by the river. You'd better leave the car the ground is rather soft.
NEHRU: Thank you . . .
FIRST FRIEND: ( drolly, as he climbs out ) Come on! I'm anxious to meet this new "force"!
GANDHI: I try to live like an Indian, as you see. it is stupid of course, because in our country it is the British who decide how an Indian lives what he may buy, what he may sell. And from their luxury in the midst of our terrible poverty they instruct us on what is justice and what is So it is only natural that our best young minds assume an air of Eastern dignity, while greedily assimilating every Western weakness as quickly as they can acquire it. If we have Home Rule that will change.
NEHRU: ( defensively ) If we have Home Rule that will change.
GANDHI: Would you, please?
GANDHI: And why should the English grant us Home Rule? Here, we must take the peelings to the goats.
GANDHI: We only make wild speeches, or perform even wilder acts of terrorism. We've bred an army of anarchists but not one single group that can really fight the British anywhere.
NEHRU: ( surprised ) I thought you were against fighting.
GANDHI: Just spread it around they like the new peelings mixed with the rotting ones.
GANDHI: Where there is injustice, I've always believed in fighting. The question is do you fight to change things, or do you fight to punish. For myself, I have found that we are all such sinners we should leave punishment to God. And if we really want to change things there are better ways of doing it than by derailing trains or slashing someone with a
BA: The fire is ready.
GANDHI: You see, even here we live under
NEHRU: ( reflectively ) I told you.
FIRST FRIEND: Hm. but look at him. Some "fighter"! I can see the British shaking now.
BA: But it's the ink that is the most
SHUKLA: I am looking for Mr. Gandhi.
SHUKLA: .I've wanted to speak to you for a long time.
SHUKLA: .our crops. we can't sell them. We have no money. but the landlords take the same rent.
ENGLISH CAPTAIN: Clear the way there! Get out of the
SERGEANT PUTNAM: Sir! Up here!
ENGLISH CAPTAIN: Give me a leg up, will you!
ENGLISH CAPTAIN: What the hell is it, Sergeant?
ENGLISH CAPTAIN: He turns his head slowly, his mouth agape at His point of view. The whole of the obscurely lit platform is covered thick with waiting crowds. They engulf the station house, back and front, and on the other side of the train more people are packed all along its length, and beyond them along the narrow street that stretches through the little collection of houses adjoining the station, every rooftop is covered men, women with babes in arms, children. There is no excitement, hardly any movement just a vast congregation of people, waiting silently is the darkness and as the camera pans we see that the crowd extends, indiscernible, even beyond the range of light.
ENGLISH CAPTAIN: ( awed, a little frightened ) What the hell is going on?
SERGEANT PUTNAM: I don't know, sir. The agent says they got a telegram and it just said, he is coming. and gave the time of the train.
ENGLISH CAPTAIN: Who the hell is he?
SERGEANT PUTNAM: I don't know, sir.
ENGLISH CAPTAIN: Who the devil are you?
GANDHI: My name is Gandhi. Mohandas K. Gandhi.
ENGLISH CAPTAIN: Well, whoever you are, we don't want you here. I suggest you get back on that train before it leaves the They seem to want me.
GANDHI: ( calmly, a glance at the crowd ) They seem to want me.
ENGLISH CAPTAIN: Now look here. I'll put you under arrest if you'd prefer?
GANDHI: On what charge?
ENGLISH CAPTAIN: I don't want any trouble.
GANDHI: I am an Indian traveling in my own country. I see no reason for trouble.
ENGLISH CAPTAIN: Well, there'd better not be.
MEHA: For years the landlords have ordered us to grow indigo, for dyeing the cloth. Always they took part of the crop as rent.
MEHA: But now the English factories make cloth for everyone. No one wants our indigo. And the landlords won't take their share. They say we must pay our rent in cash.
MEHA: What we could, we sold. The police have taken the rest. There is no food, we
GANDHI: I understand. The landlords are British?
GANDHI: What we can do. we will try to do.
GANDHI: Is all Champaran like this, Shukla?
SHUKLA: Yes, Bapu. The whole province. hundreds
CHARLIE'S VOICE: Mohan !
POLICEMAN: ( he knows ) Are you Mr. M. K. Gandhi?
GANDHI: I'm sorry but you are under arrest.
POLICEMAN: I'm sorry but you are under arrest.
GANDHI: I am not sorry at all.
BATSMAN: ( to the wicket keeper ) Who did you say would be buying the
BATSMAN: Oh, no
MAJOR: .I've got no idea. All I know is there's a riot or something at Motihari in Champaran, and the whole company is ordered out.
A VOICE: It's two days' march!
MAJOR: That's why the match is off. It's mostly Muslim territory and the old man's taking no chances.
BATSMAN: ( disgusted ) God, and it's the best innings I've had since Oxford.
WICKET KEEPER: ( dryly ) India's full of grief, old man.
CHARLIE: ( firmly ) I wish to see the prisoner, please.
CAPTAIN: ( reluctantly ) All right, Sergeant.
GANDHI: Reverse on Charlie. He looks down at Gandhi and shakes his Close shot. Gandhi. Head and shoulders. He returns the grin, but anger and determination still dominate his mood.
CHARLIE: ( a somber grin ) .Shades of South Africa.
GANDHI: Not quite. They're only "holding me" until the Magistrate's hearing. Then it will be prison.
CHARLIE: ( sympathetically ) Did they take your clothes? These are my clothes now. ( affectionately ) You always had a puritanical streak,
GANDHI: These are my clothes now. You always had a puritanical streak,
CHARLIE: ( affectionately ) You always had a puritanical streak,
GANDHI: ( in a tone of defensiveness ) If I want to be one with them, I have to live like them.
CHARLIE: I think you do. But I thank God we all don't.
GANDHI: I'm sure your legs are quite as handsome as mine.
CHARLIE: Ah, but my puritanism runs the another way. I'm far too modest for such a
CHARLIE: Couldn't I be let in with the prisoner? I am a clergyman.
CHARLIE: ( a bit puzzled ) They're calling you "Bapu." I thought it meant father.
GANDHI: ( wistfully ) It does. We must be getting old,
CHARLIE: What do you want me to do?
GANDHI: I think, Charlie, that you can help us most by taking that assignment you've been offered in Fiji. I have to be sure they have to be sure that what we do can be done by Indians. alone.
GANDHI: I have to be sure they have to be sure that what we do can be done by Indians. alone.
GANDHI: But you know the strategy. The world is full of people who will despise what's happening here. It is their strength we need. Before you go, you could start us in the right direction. I must leave from Calcutta, and soon. You'll have to say goodbye to Ba for
CHARLIE: I must leave from Calcutta, and soon. You'll have to say goodbye to Ba for
GANDHI: When I get the chance.
CHARLIE: Well, I
GANDHI: There are no goodbyes for us, Charlie. Wherever you are, you will always be in my heart.
MAGISTRATE: ( whispered conference ) I am going to clear the courtroom.
CLERK: ( politely ) I'm not sure we'd be able to. And it is a first hearing, it's supposed to be public. And he's a lawyer.
MAGISTRATE: ( worried, angry ) I don't know where they found the nerve for all this.
CLERK: I'm sure I don't either, but the troops won't be here until tomorrow.
MAGISTRATE: How the press get here before the
CLERK: That English clergyman sent a number of telegrams yesterday afternoon. I understand one of them even went to the Viceroy.
MAGISTRATE: You have been ordered out of the province on the grounds of disturbing the peace.
GANDHI: ( defiantly ) With respect, I refuse to go.
MAGISTRATE: ( sternly ) Do you want to go to jail?
GANDHI: ( not giving him an inch ) As you wish.
MAGISTRATE: ( as much sternness as he can muster ) All right. I will release you on bail of one hundred rupees until I reach a sentence.
GANDHI: I refuse to pay one hundred rupees.
MAGISTRATE: Then I I will grant release without bail until I reach a decision.
A VOICE: Gandhiji! Gandhiji! Mr. Gandhi!
GANDHI: FIRST YOUNG MAN
GANDHI: I want to document, coldly, rationally, what is being done here. It may take months many, many We have no pressing engagements. You will have to live with the I have nothing to pay you.
GANDHI: You will have to live with the I have nothing to pay you.
SIR GEORGE: I don't know what this country is coming to!
SIR EDWARD: But good God, man, you yourself raised the rent simply to finance a hunting And some of these others beatings, illegal seizures, demanding services without pay, even refusing them water! In India!.
SIR EDWARD: And some of these others beatings, illegal seizures, demanding services without pay, even refusing them water! In India!.
SIR GEORGE: Nobody knows what it is to try to get these people to work!
SIR EDWARD: Well, you've make this half-naked whatever-he-is into an international "One lone man marching dusty roads armed only with honesty and a bamboo shaft doing battle with the British At home children are writing "essays" about him.
SIR EDWARD: "One lone man marching dusty roads armed only with honesty and a bamboo shaft doing battle with the British At home children are writing "essays" about him.
SIR EDWARD: I couldn't take another two years of him to save my life.
SIR GEORGE: What do they want?
PERSONAL SECRETARY: ( reading precisely from a document ) A rebate on rents paid. ( Sir George huffs. ) They are to be free to grow crops of their own choice. A commission part Indian to hear grievances.
SIR GEORGE: ( wearily ) That would satisfy him?.
SIR EDWARD: ( a nod; then pointedly ) And His Majesty's Government. It only needs your signature for the
SIR GEORGE: It will be worth it to see the back of him. We're too damn liberal.
SIR EDWARD: Perhaps. But at least all this has made the Government see some sense about what men like Mr. Gandhi should be allowed, and what they should be
SIR EDWARD: ( firmly ) Things are going to change.
JINNAH: ( in annoyance ) Where is Mr. Gandhi?
CHAUFFEUR: ( distastefully ) He said he preferred to walk, sir. I followed him most of the way. He's just turned the corner. The Prophet give me patience.
JINNAH: The Prophet give me patience.
CHAUFFEUR: He came Third Class.
JINNAH: ( with effort ) My house is honored.
GANDHI: ( he makes the pranam ) The honor is ours. May I introduce Mr. Kallenbach. He's an old friend ( anticipating Jinnah's objection ) and his interest is in flowers. I presumed to tell him he could wander your gardens while we talked.
JINNAH: ( the suave, but slightly ironic host ) I'll send my gardener. I'm sure you'll have much to discuss.
JINNAH: Gentlemen the hero of Champaran.
GANDHI: Only the stubborn man of Champaran.
JINNAH: Mr. Patel you know. Mr. Maulana Azad a fellow Muslim. recently released from prison.
JINNAH: Mr. Kripalani. And of course you know Mr. Nehru.
GANDHI: ( a play on Jinnah's introduction ) I am beginning to know Mr. Nehru.
PATEL: ( to business: Gandhi has been admitted to the power circle, he is not the power ) Well, I've called you here because I've had a chance to see the new legislation. It's exactly what was rumored. Arrest without warrant. Automatic imprisonment for possession of materials considered seditious.
PATEL: Your writings are specifically listed.
KRIPALANI: So much for helping them in the Great There is only one answer to that. Direct action on a scale they can never handle!
JINNAH: ( fire ) There is only one answer to that. Direct action on a scale they can never handle!
NEHRU: I don't think so.
NEHRU: Terrorism would only justify their repression. And what kinds of leaders would it throw up? Are they likely to be the men we would want at the head of our country?
NEHRU: I've been catching up on my reading.
JINNAH: ( coldly ) I too have read Mr. Gandhi's writings, but I'd rather be ruled by an Indian terrorist than an English one. And I don't want to submit to that kind of ( to Nehru but with a trace of condescension ) I must say, Panditji, it seems to me it's gone beyond remedies like passive ( in the silence ) If I may I, for one, have never advocated passive anything.
PATEL: ( to Nehru but with a trace of condescension ) I must say, Panditji, it seems to me it's gone beyond remedies like passive ( in the silence ) If I may I, for one, have never advocated passive anything.
GANDHI: ( in the silence ) If I may I, for one, have never advocated passive anything.
GANDHI: I am with Mr. Jinnah. We must never submit to such laws ever. And I think our resistance must be active and provocative.
GANDHI: I want to embarrass all those who wish to treat us as slaves. All of
GANDHI: Forgive my stupid illustration. But I want to change their minds not kill them for weaknesses we all
AZAD: And what "resistance" would you offer?
GANDHI: The law is due to take effect from April sixth. I want to call on the nation to make that a day of prayer and fasting.
JINNAH: You mean a general strike?
GANDHI: ( his grin ) I mean a day of prayer and fasting. But of course no work could be done no buses, no trains, no factories, no administration. The country would
PATEL: My God, it would terrify them.
AZAD: ( a wry smile ) Three hundred fifty million people at prayer. Even the English newspapers would have to report that. And explain But could we get people to do it?
KRIPALANI: But could we get people to do it?
NEHRU: ( he is half sold already ) Champaran stirred the whole country. ( To Gandhi ) They are calling you Mahatma the Great Soul.
GANDHI: Fortunately such news comes very slowly where I live.
NEHRU: ( continuing, to the others ) I think if we all worked to publicize it. all of the Congress. every avenue we know.
JINNAH: Perhaps I should have stayed in the garden and talked about the flowers.
ADC: Sir it's Mr. Kinnoch.
CHELMSFORD: ( hesitant, stunned ) Nothing. nothing is working, sir buses. trains. the markets. ( Personal, incredulous ) There's not even any civilian staff here, sir. Everything has stopped.
KINNOCH: ( hesitant, stunned ) Nothing. nothing is working, sir buses. trains. the markets. ( Personal, incredulous ) There's not even any civilian staff here, sir. Everything has stopped.
CHELMSFORD: ( curt, firm ) Is it simply Delhi and Bombay?
KINNOCH: No, sir Karachi, Calcutta, Madras, Bangalore. It's, it's total.
KINNOCH: ( the ultimate ) The Army had to take over the telegraph or we'd be cut off from the world. I can't believe it.
CHELMSFORD: I can't believe it.
KINNOCH: He's going to sell his own paper tomorrow in Bombay. They've called for a parade on Victoria Road.
CHELMSFORD: ( clenches his jaw and turns to the General ) Arrest him!
NEHRU: Gandhi, who also looks worn, rises his eyebrows whimsically at the use of that name.
GANDHI: You too.
NEHRU: ( a real smile, but the same affection ) It seems less formal than "Mahatma." Since your arrest the riots have hardly stopped. Not big ; but they keep breaking out. I run to stop them. and Patel and Kripalani they are never at rest. But some English civilians have been killed, and the Army is attacking crowds with clubs and sometimes worse.
NEHRU: Since your arrest the riots have hardly stopped. Not big ; but they keep breaking out. I run to stop them. and Patel and Kripalani they are never at rest. But some English civilians have been killed, and the Army is attacking crowds with clubs and sometimes worse.
GANDHI: Maybe I'm wrong. maybe we're not ready yet. In South Africa the numbers were small.
NEHRU: The Government's afraid, and they don't know what to do. But they're more afraid of terrorists than of you. The Viceroy has agreed to your release if you will speak for non- I've never spoken for anything else.
GANDHI: ( a sad smile ) I've never spoken for anything else.
SPEAKER: .England is so powerful its army and its navy, all its modern weapons but when a great power like that strikes defenseless people it shows it brutality, its own weakness! Especially when those people do not strike back. That is why the Mahatma begs us to take the course of non-violence!
SPEAKER: .If we riot, if we fight back, we become the vandals and they become the law! If we bear their blows, they are the vandals God and His law are on our.
SPEAKER: ( soldiering on ) .We must have the courage to take their anger. Port arms, Sergeant Major.
DYER: Port arms, Sergeant Major.
DYER: Again, the sergeant major barks the command, the bolts slam back and forth, the magazines clatter. Featuring the platform and the front of the crowd. They have all turned now to watch, frozen in incredulity and fascination. The sound of the sergeant major's orders and the sinister rattle of breeches and bolts drifting to them.
SPEAKER: ( almost to himself as he too is riveted ) .Our pain will be our victory.
ADC: Do we issue a warning, sir?
DYER: ( stiffly ) They've had their warning no
DYER: Sergeant Major
SERGEANT MAJOR: Take aim!
DYER: Flash shot along the line of sepoys; the rifles jerk and bang. The crowd, running, screaming.
SERGEANT MAJOR: A dreadful press of panic-stricken people flying toward the walls. And again the crash of rifles. Some fall. Others run off-screen in an aimless, irresistible wave. Dyer is walking behind his men, telling them, with a view to maximum accuracy, what he has told them on the firing range ( it makes him a little irritable to have to repeat it ).
DYER: Take your time. Take your time.
DYER: Over there.
CORPORAL: Over there.
DYER: Over there.
CORPORAL: He directs the attention of his neighbors in the firing line toward the new target; they shift their aim. A man reaching for a child who is also propelled upward by its mother from below is hit, falls, so that he and the child crash into the crowd below. Sepoys firing ad lib. Dyer watching the effect, careful and Swift tracking a man running through the staggering crowd, over the litter of bodies, his mouth open, his eyes wild. He arrives at a well, throws down the rope and slides down it. Others seize the idea and in panic throw themselves into the well, dropping out of sight. Featuring Dyer. Meticulously, he taps a corporal on the shoulder with his swagger stick and indicates the well. The corporal signals his line of men. At the well. The gathering crowd men, women and laced with rifle fire. From behind the sepoys we see the whole Bagh, littered with dead and dying, a thick ruck around the well, the walls hanging with wounded and dying, the firing continuing, loud, loud, louder. until
ADVOCATE: General Dyer, is it correct that you ordered your troops to fire at the thickest part of the crowd? That is so.
DYER: ( righteously ) That is so.
ADVOCATE: One thousand five hundred and sixteen casualties with one thousand six hundred and fifty bullets. My intention was to inflict a lesson that would have an impact throughout all India.
DYER: My intention was to inflict a lesson that would have an impact throughout all India.
INDIAN BARRISTER: General, had you been able to take in the armored car, would you have opened fire with the machine gun?
DYER: I think, probably yes. General, did you realize there were children and women in the crowd?
HUNTER: General, did you realize there were children and women in the crowd?
DYER: ( a beat ) I did. But that was irrelevant to the point you were making?
ADVOCATE: But that was irrelevant to the point you were making?
DYER: That is correct.
ADVOCATE: Could I ask you what provision you made for the wounded?
DYER: ( a moment, then firmly ) I was ready to help any who applied.
ADVOCATE: General. how does a child shot with a 3-0-3 Enfield "apply" for
CHELMSFORD: You must understand, gentlemen, that His Majesty's Government and the British people repudiate both the massacre and the philosophy that prompted it. What I would like to do is to come to some compromise over the new civil If you will excuse me, Your Excellency, it is our view that matters have gone beyond
CHELMSFORD: What I would like to do is to come to some compromise over the new civil If you will excuse me, Your Excellency, it is our view that matters have gone beyond
GANDHI: If you will excuse me, Your Excellency, it is our view that matters have gone beyond
GANDHI: We think it is time you recognized that you are masters in someone else's Despite the best intentions of the best of you, you must, in the nature of things, humiliate us to control us. General Dyer is but an extreme example of the principle. It is time you left. With respect, Mr. Gandhi, without British administration, this country would be reduced to chaos.
KINNOCH: With respect, Mr. Gandhi, without British administration, this country would be reduced to chaos.
GANDHI: ( patient, ironic ) Mr. Kinnoch, I beg you to accept that there is no people on earth who would not prefer their own bad government to the "good" government of an alien power.
BRIGADIER: ( indignantly, choked ) My dear sir India is British! We're hardly an alien power!
CHELMSFORD: Even if His Majesty could waive all other considerations, he has a duty to the millions of his Muslim subjects who are a minority in this realm. And experience has taught that his troops and his administration are essential in order to keep the peace.
GANDHI: All nations contain religious minorities. Like other countries, ours will have its problems. But they will be ours not yours.
GENERAL: And how do you propose to make them yours? You don't think we're just going to walk out of India.
GANDHI: Yes. in the end you will walk out. Because one hundred thousand Englishmen simply cannot control three hundred fifty million Indians if the Indians refuse to co-operate. And that is what we intend to achieve peaceful, non-violent, non-co-
GANDHI: Until you yourself see the wisdom of leaving. your Excellency.
GENERAL: ( mocking his exchange with Gandhi ) "You don't just expect us to walk out?" "Yes."
BRIGADIER: Extraordinary little man! "Nonviolent, non-co-operation" for a moment I almost thought they were actually going to do something. Yes but it would be wise to be very cautious for a time. The Anti- Terrorist Act will remain on the statutes, but on no account is Gandhi to be arrested. Whatever mischief he causes, I have no intention of making a martyr of him.
CHELMSFORD: ( thoughtfully ) Yes but it would be wise to be very cautious for a time. The Anti- Terrorist Act will remain on the statutes, but on no account is Gandhi to be arrested. Whatever mischief he causes, I have no intention of making a martyr of him.
BA: ( simple, direct ) .but now something worse is happening. When Gandhiji and I were growing up, women wove their own cloth. But now there are millions who have no work because those who can buy all they need from England. I say with Gandhiji, there is no beauty in the finest cloth if it makes hunger and unhappiness.
GANDHI: My message tonight is the message I have given to your brothers everywhere. To gain independence we must prove worthy of it.
GANDHI: There must be Hindu-Muslim unity Secondly, no Indian must be treated as the English treat us so we must remove untouchability from our lives, and from our hearts.
GANDHI: Third we must defy the British.
GANDHI: Not with violence that will inflame their will, but with firmness that will open their eyes.
GANDHI: English factories make the cloth that makes our poverty. All those who wish to make the English see, bring me the cloth from Manchester and Leeds that you wear tonight, and we will light a fire that will be seen in Delhi and
GANDHI: And if, like me, you are left with only one piece of homespun wear it with dignity!
PATEL: Excuse me just let me get out of your way, please. No, thank you, I'll manage.
PATEL: ( joyous it's been a long time ) Ah, Herman! ( Of the bags ) No, no don't destroy my good intentions. I'm feeling guilty about traveling Second Class.
KALLENBACH: I do it as a friend and admirer not a servant.
PATEL: Ah, in that case!
PATEL: Maulana is made of sterner stuff. Our trains met in Bombay, but he's back there in that lot somewhere.
PATEL: ( shaking his head at it all ) When I think what our "beloved Mahatma" asks, I don't know how he ever got such a hold over us. Is he Yes. Now that things are moving he's going to write and only take part when it's necessary.
KALLENBACH: Yes. Now that things are moving he's going to write and only take part when it's necessary.
AZAD: ( to Patel ) It was a Hindu child and it tried to wet on me.
PATEL: Of course. A Muslim beef eater I'm only surprised he missed.
AZAD: He was a she.
PATEL: Ah, that explains it. Well, do I carry your luggage as penance or
KALLENBACH: There's another passenger a Miss She's the daughter of an English She's been corresponding with him for a year.
PATEL: And what does the daughter of an English admiral propose to do in an ashram sink us?
AZAD: ( quietly his manner ) From the looks of the luggage, yes.
KALLENBACH: She wants to make her home with us and Gandhiji has agreed.
MIRABEHN: You'd be Mr. Kallenbach.
KALLENBACH: .And you would be Miss Slade.
MIRABEHN: ( proudly ) I prefer the name Gandhiji has given me Mirabehn.
KALLENBACH: ( of the car ) It was a gift and it only worked a few weeks, but when Gandhi came home he struck on this idea. He calls it his ox-Ford. Comfortable and yet more our pace.
MIRABEHN: Might Mr. Nehru be there too?
PATEL: ( glibly ) The irresponsible young Nehru is in prison again. Though there is a rumor that under pressure from your country, they will let him out
MIRABEHN: You can't know how closely we follow your struggle how many in England admired what you did in Bardoli. It must have taken enormous courage.
PATEL: Well, in this country one must decide if one is more afraid of the government or Gandhi. For us, it's Gandhi.
MIRABEHN: ( a note of wonder ) And you're German.
KALLENBACH: And do you feel Indian?
MIRABEHN: And do you feel Indian?
KALLENBACH: It surprises, but it doesn't deflate.
MIRABEHN: But you've been with him so long .I'd come to believe I would never meet a truly honest man. And then I met one.
KALLENBACH: .I'd come to believe I would never meet a truly honest man. And then I met one.
BA: Stop stop.
BA: God gave you ten thumbs.
GANDHI: ( morosely )
GANDHI: It means "leader" and it is the name the peasants have given Patel. Gandhi uses it with an intonation of novelty and respect. He stands and crosses to Patel, clutching him emotionally, and it brings a bit of emotion from the sophisticated Patel. Gandhi holds him back to look at him.
GANDHI: What you've done is a miracle. You have made all India proud. It must have been the only Non-violent campaign ever led by a man who wanted to kill everybody every day.
PATEL: It must have been the only Non-violent campaign ever led by a man who wanted to kill everybody every day.
GANDHI: ( laughs ) Not true! ( He means himself. ) The secret is mastering the urge.
AZAD: He came Second Class.
GANDHI: Well, we can't expect miracles all the time. Your news I understand is not so
AZAD: Gandhi reaches forward and touches his hand, and he sees Mirabehn on the porch. For a moment their eyes meet and then Mirabehn moves forward quickly and takes his hand, kissing it, tears running down her cheek. Gandhi touches the top of her head.
GANDHI: Come, come you will be my
AZAD: .but then some rioting broke out between Hindus and Muslims violent,
AZAD: Whether it was provoked. But it gave them an excuse to impose martial law throughout Bengal. Some of the things the military have
GANDHI: Is the campaign weakening?
AZAD: The marches and protests are bigger if anything but with the censorship they know more in England than we do, and it saps the courage to think you may be suffering alone.
GANDHI: They are not alone. And martial law only shows how desperate the British
GANDHI: Is that homespun? Or cotton from
MIRABEHN: I I sent for it, from here. I dyed it myself.
GANDHI: What do the workers in England make of what we're doing? It must have produced hardship.
MIRABEHN: It has. But you'd be surprised. They understand they really do. It's not the workers you have to worry Ba will have to teach you to spin I would rather march.
GANDHI: ( A glance toward Ba. ) Ba will have to teach you to spin I would rather march.
MIRABEHN: I would rather march.
GANDHI: First spin. Let the others march for a time.
BA: First lesson: To march, wear shoes, to spin, do not. I'll teach you all our foolishness, and you must teach me yours.
BA: I'll teach you all our foolishness, and you must teach me yours.
MARCHERS: Home Rule! Long live Gandhi! Buy Indian! Long live Gandhi!
POLICEMAN: I'll stuff your damn mouth with it!
SECOND MARCHER: Leave him alone he wasn't harming
POLICEMAN: Their point of view. The corner where the parade has disappeared. It is now packed with more marchers, more flooding in from behind. We see the whole street, the marchers massed near the corner, spread out, staring at the police, who are now frozen in their mayhem, staring off at the marchers. For a second, utter silence. And then the police begin to back away from their victims. The marchers start to move forward. The police draw their guns, and the marchers suddenly run at them, a guttural roar, as though they were one single wild beast. Featuring the police. They start to run, some turning to fire at the pursuing crowd, then running on.
PATEL'S VOICE: That's one bit of news they haven't
JINNAH'S VOICE: Oh, it's all over the world. India's "non-violence."
NEHRU: ( bleakly ) What can we do?
GANDHI: ( sepulchrally ) We must end the campaign.
JINNAH: After what they did at the massacre it's only an eye for an eye.
GANDHI: ( he hasn't moved; the same tone ) An eye for an eye only ends up making the whole world blind. ( Now he looks up at them. ) We must stop.
PATEL: ( a baffled smile ) Gandhiji do you know the sacrifices people have made?
JINNAH: We would never get the same commitment again ever.
GANDHI: If we obtain our freedom by murder and bloodshed I want no part of it.
NEHRU: ( pleading ) It was one incident.
GANDHI: ( quietly ) Tell that to the families of the policemen who died.
NEHRU: Bapu the whole nation is marching. They wouldn't stop, even if we asked them to.
GANDHI: I will ask. And I will fast as penance for my part in arousing such emotions and I will not stop until they stop.
JINNAH: ( disgustedly ) God! You can be sure the British won't censor that! They'll put it on every street corner.
NEHRU: But but Gandhiji people are aroused. they won't stop.
GANDHI: If I die, perhaps they will.
TWILIGHT: In the shadows, Ba sits by Gandhi's mat bed. She is holding him as he heaves in a spasm of dry retching, his face to the wall. When he is finished, he lies almost limp in her arms and she gently lowers him to the mat. She strokes his head. Mirabehn stiffens herself. She is not yet devotee and nurse. She removes her sandals and walks across the room. Ba looks up at her. She glances at the jug and glass, then nods. She turns to Gandhi.
BA: ( softly ) I must get ready for evening prayers. Mirabehn is here.
MIRABEHN: I've brought your drinking water. May I turn you?
MIRABEHN: There is a little lemon juice in it. That is all.
MIRABEHN: Herman has gone to meet Pandit Nehru there was a telegram. Almost everywhere it has stopped.
GANDHI: When it is everywhere, then my prayers will be answered.
GANDHI: Do you find me stubborn?
MIRABEHN: ( her own honesty ) I don't know. I know you are right. I don't know that this is right.
GANDHI: ( hoarse, strained ) When I despair, I remember that all through history the way of truth and love has always won.
GANDHI: There have been tyrants and murderers, and for a time they can seem invincible. But in the end they always fall. Think of it always. When you are in doubt that that is God's way, the way the world is meant to be. think of that.
GANDHI: ( the paternal smile ) And then try to do it His way. ( A tear runs down Mirabehn's face. She touches his shoulder. Gandhi just leans his head back in exhaustion. ) And now could I have another feast of lemon juice?
MIRABEHN: Panditji come in.
NEHRU: Jinnah, Patel, all of Congress has called for the end of non-co- operation. There's not been one demonstration. All over India people are praying that you will end the fast. They're walking in the streets, offering garlands to the police and to British soldiers.
GANDHI: ( croaked ) Perhaps perhaps I have overdone
LITTLE BOY: Good morning, Bapu!
GANDHI: Good morning. Don't let her go. If she bumps me I am done for.
LITTLE BOY: Don't worry. I milk her every day, she's not
POLICE SUPERINTENDENT: ( a beat ) ( it is too absurd ) You can't be serious! This man has just stopped a revolution!
NEHRU: ( it is too absurd ) You can't be serious! This man has just stopped a revolution!
POLICE SUPERINTENDENT: ( uncomfortably; he knows ) That's as may be. I only know what I am charged to perform. I don't believe it even the British can't be that stupid!
NEHRU: I don't believe it even the British can't be that stupid!
GANDHI: Panditji please, help me. You must help Herman and Ba. I have been on many trips it is just another trip.
GANDHI: You must help Herman and Ba. I have been on many trips it is just another trip.
GANDHI: I am at your command.
GANDHI: ( to Nehru ) If there is one protest one riot a disgrace of any kind, I will fast ( and now he smiles Gandhi to Nehru, special ) I know India is not ready for my kind of independence. If I am sent to jail, perhaps that is the best protest our country can make at this time. And if it helps India, I have never refused to take His Majesty's
GANDHI: ( and now he smiles Gandhi to Nehru, special ) I know India is not ready for my kind of independence. If I am sent to jail, perhaps that is the best protest our country can make at this time. And if it helps India, I have never refused to take His Majesty's
CLERK: Call the prisoner to the bar.
ADVOCATE GENERAL: ."Non-co-operation has one aim: the overthrow of the Government. Sedition must become our creed. We must give no quarter, nor can we expect any." Signed M. K. Gandhi, in your journal Young India, dated twenty-second March of this year. Do you deny writing it?
GANDHI: Not at all. And I will save the Court's time, M'Lord, by stating under oath that to this day I believe non-co-operation with evil is a duty. And that British rule of India is evil.
ADVOCATE GENERAL: The Prosecution rests, M'Lord.
JUDGE BROOMFIELD: I take it you will conduct your own defense, Mr. Gandhi.
GANDHI: I have no defense, My Lord. I am guilty as charged. And if you truly believe in the system of law you administer in my country, you must inflict on me the severest penalty possible.
JUDGE BROOMFIELD: It is impossible for me to ignore that you are in a different category from any person I have ever tried, or am likely to try.
JUDGE BROOMFIELD: ( a long beat ) It is nevertheless my duty to sentence you to six years' imprisonment.
JUDGE BROOMFIELD: ( a personal statement, not a real hope ) If however His Majesty's Government could at some later date see fit to reduce that term, no one would be better pleased than I.
COLLINS: Well, he certainly wasn't forgotten! And as soon as he got out he was back tramping the country, preaching non-violence and demanding a free India. Everybody knows another showdown's coming but when, and over what
WALKER: Well, I read you account of that crowd in Calcutta and that he was twisting the Lion's tail again.
WALKER: ( falteringly ) .and I knew something had to give. And I was determined to be here when it did.
COLLINS: How does a reporter in Central America learn that Gandhi was born in Porbandar anyway?
WALKER: Oh, I've been a Gandhi buff for a long time.
COLLINS: He certainly makes good copy. The other day Winston Churchill called him "that half-naked Indian fakir."
WALKER: I met him once.
COLLINS: You mean Gandhi?
WALKER: ( nods ) Back in South Africa. ( reflectively ) long time ago.
COLLINS: What was he like?
WALKER: Lots of hair. and a little like a college freshman trying to figure everything out.
COLLINS: Well, he must've found some of the
BA: ( a step forward ) "In every worthy wish of yours, I shall be your helpmate."
GANDHI: ( a step ) "Take a fourth step, that we may be ever full of joy."
BA: ( a step ) "I will ever live devoted to you, speaking words of love and praying for your happiness."
GANDHI: "Take a fifth step, that we may serve the people."
BA: "I will follow close behind you and help to serve the people."
GANDHI: "Take a sixth step, that we may follow our vows in life."
BA: "I will follow you in all our vows and duties."
GANDHI: ( a last step ) "Take the seventh step, that we may ever live as friends." "You are my best friend. my highest guru, and my sovereign lord."
BA: "You are my best friend. my highest guru, and my sovereign lord."
GANDHI: Then I put a sweetened wheat cake in her mouth.
BA: And I put a sweetened wheat cake in his mouth.
GANDHI: And with that we were pronounced man and wife. We were both thirteen.
WALKER: It's beautiful.
GANDHI: Even as a boy I thought so.
WALKER: Trying to keep track of you is making me change all my sleeping habits.
GANDHI: And you've come all this way because you think something is going to Is it?
WALKER: ( Then weightedly ) Is it?
GANDHI: Perhaps. I've come here to think about it.
GANDHI: ( musing ) Do you remember much of South Africa?
WALKER: A great deal.
GANDHI: I've traveled so far and thought so much. As you can see, my city was a sea city always filled with Hindus and Muslims and Sikhs and Jews and The temple where you were yesterday is of my family's sect, the Pranami. It was Hindu of course but the priests used to read from the Muslim Koran and the Hindu Gita, moving from one to the other as though it mattered not at all which book was read as long as God was worshipped.
GANDHI: When I was a boy I used to sing a song in that temple: "A true disciple knows another's woes as his own. He bows to all and despises none. Earthly possessions hold him not." Like all boys I said the words, not thinking of what they meant or how they might be influencing me. I've traveled so far. and all I've done is come back home.
WALKER: You know what you're going to do.
GANDHI: It would have been very uncivil of me to let you make such a long trip for nothing.
WALKER: Where are you going?
GANDHI: I'm going back to the ashram and then I'm going to prove to the new Viceroy that the King's writ no longer runs in India!
IRWIN: Another angle. He is looking in astonishment at his principal secretary. His ADC, a general, a brigadier, a senior police officer are with him. Like him they hold the same offices, but are a new team.
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY: Yes, sir. He is going to march to the sea and make salt.
IRWIN: All right he's breaking the law. What will he be depriving us of, two rupees of salt tax?
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY: It's not a serious attack on the revenue, sir. Its primary importance is symbolic.
IRWIN: Don't patronize me, Charles.
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY: No, sir. I in this climate, sir, nothing lives without water or salt. Our absolute control of it is a control on the pulse of India.
IRWIN: And that's the basis of this "Declaration of Independence"?
GENERAL: I say ignore it. Let them raise their damn flags, let him make his salt. It's only symbolic if we choose to make it so.
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY: ( pointedly ) He's going to arrive at the sea on the anniversary of the massacre at
IRWIN: General Edgar is right ignore it. Mr. Gandhi will find it's going to take a great deal more than a pinch of salt to bring down the British
GANDHI: ( to Nehru ) .the real test will come if I am arrested. If there is violence we lose all our moral advantage. This time it mustn't happen.
NEHRU: We're not beginners anymore. We've been trained by a strict sergeant
GANDHI: If I'm taken, Maulana is to lead the march. If he is arrested, Patel, then Kripalani, then yourself.
BA: You should be relaxing.
GANDHI: I'm sure I'm fit for at least five hundred miles.
MIRABEHN: You should ride the pony. It is not necessary to walk to prove the point.
GANDHI: I have two of them bossing me now.
NEHRU: We must get these to the printer. I know it will succeed. Even my mother is prepared to march.
GANDHI: And Jinnah?
NEHRU: ( a beat ) He's waiting. He's not prepared to accept it will mean as much as you ( smiles confidently ) Wait and see. wait and see.
GANDHI: ( smiles confidently ) Wait and see. wait and see.
GANDHI: ( of the press ) You've done me a great service.
WALKER: ( a grin, then a play on Gandhi's words to him ) It would have been uncivil of me to have let you make such a long trip for nothing.
WALKER: Is it over if they arrest you now?
GANDHI: Not if they arrest me or a thousand or ten thousand. It is not only generals who know how to plan campaigns.
WALKER: What if they don't arrest you? What if they don't react at all?
GANDHI: Do you still have your notebook? The function of a civil resister is to provoke response. And we will continue to provoke until they respond, or they change the law. They are not in control we are. That is the strength of civil
COLLINS: What'd he say?
WALKER: ( wryly ) He said he's in charge.
GANDHI: Are you going to walk all the way?
WALKER: ( a weary grin ) My name is Walk-er. And I intend to report it the way it is.
GANDHI: ( to himself ) "My name is Walk-er".
STUDENT LEADER: We've come to join the march. What do we do?
PYARELAL: ( bluntly ) Be sure you're awake in the morning. ( It comes from a knowledge of students. He smiles and nods off. ) Find a place to sleep.
BRIGADIER: We're being made fools of around the Isn't there any instruction from
GENERAL: Isn't there any instruction from
IRWIN: We're required to stop it. And stop it we will. I don't care if we fill the jails, stop it. Arrest anyone, any rank except Gandhi. We'll cut his strength from under him. And then we'll deal with the Mahatma.
BRITISH SUBALTERN: Oh, my God!
SUBALTERN: Right jump to it clear this
NEHRU: No violence, Zia!
NEHRU: ( repeating quietly, as though to Zia ) .no violence.
SERGEANT: You're Nehru
NEHRU: I'm an illegal trader in salt.
IRWIN: ( impatiently ) Who's leading them?
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY: ( shrewdly ) Has there been any violence?
IRWIN: ( dryly ) I believe the question was intended to discover if there was any violence of their side.
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY: ( again the Machiavellian mind ) Perhaps if we arrested Gandhi, it
IRWIN: ( to senior police officer ) He's addressed this letter directly to you, has he?
IRWIN: ( calmly ) Thank him for his letter, and put him in jail.
IRWIN: And Fields, keep that salt works
AZAD: I would like admission to the Works.
AZAD: Last night they took Gandhiji from us. They expect us to lose heart or to fight back. We will not lose heart, we will not fight back. In his name we will be beaten. As he has taught us, we will not raise a hand. "Long live Mahatma Gandhi!"
WALKER: ( into the phone ) Hello! Ed! Ed! Goddammit, don't cut me off! ( Then suddenly he's through. ) Ed! Okay yeah right.
WALKER: "They walked, with heads up, without music, or cheering, or any hope of escape from injury or death." "It went on and on and on. Women carried the wounded bodies from the ditch until they dropped from exhaustion. But still it went on."
WALKER: "Whatever moral ascendance the West held was lost today. India is free for she has taken all that steel and cruelty can give, and she has neither cringed nor retreated." "In the words of his followers, 'Long live Mahatma Gandhi.' "
GANDHI: I am aware that I must have given you much cause for irritation, your Excellency. I hope it will not stand between us as men.
IRWIN: Mr. Gandhi, I have instructions to request your attendance at an All- Government Conference in London to discuss to discuss the possible Independence of India.
MACDONALD: I think our first duty is to recognize that there is not one India, but several: a Hindu India, a Muslim India, and India of Princely States. And all these must be respected and cared for not just one.
GANDHI: ( to Walker ) Do I speak into that?
GANDHI: Are they ready? Do I start?
GANDHI: I am glad to speak to America where so many friends exist that I know only in my heart.
GANDHI'S VOICE: ( continuing over all ) I think your interest and the world's has fallen on India, not only because we are struggling for freedom, but because the way we are doing so is unique as far as history shows us. Here in Europe mighty nations are, it seems, already contemplating another war, though I think they, and all the world, are sick to death of bloodspilling. All of us are seeking a way out, and I flatter myself that perhaps the ancient land of India will offer such a way. If we are to make progress we must not repeat history, but make history. And I myself will die before I betray our belief that love is a stronger weapon than hate.
GANDHI: It is only a sprain. Take her to the river, and we'll make a mud-pack for her. Go I won't be long.
JINNAH: So the truth is, after all your travels, all your efforts, they've stopped the campaign and sent you home empty-handed.
GANDHI: They are only clinging to old dreams and trying to split us in the old way. But the will has gone Independence will drop like a ripe apple. The only question is when and how.
NEHRU: I say when is now and we will determine how.
JINNAH: Gandhi winds up what he has done, and starts to rise.
GANDHI: They are preparing for war. I will not support it, but I do not intend to take advantage of their danger.
PATEL: ( blithely, but to the point ) That's when you take advantage.
GANDHI: No. That is just another way of striking back. We have come a long way together with the British. When they leave we want to see them off as friends. And now, if you'll excuse me, there is something I must attend to.
NEHRU: ( resignedly ) "Mud packs."
BRITISH COLONEL: Mr. Gandhi sir.
BRITISH COLONEL: I have instructions to inquire as to the subject of your speech tonight.
GANDHI: The value of goat's milk in daily But you can be sure I will also speak against war.
BRITISH COLONEL: I'm sorry, sir. That can't be allowed.
ADJUTANT: It's all right, Mrs. Gandhi. I have orders to return with you and your companion to the Mahatma's ashram.
BA: If you take my husband, I intend to speak in his place.
DAY: The palace looks evocative a lonely, incongruous building.
LIEUTENANT: It was the Aga Khan's palace, but they've turned it into a prison.
LIEUTENANT: ( shouting over the motor ) They've got most of the leading Congress politicians in this one. But Nehru and some others are over in Dehra Dun. Your timing's pretty lucky. They had your Mr. Gandhi cut off from the press but last month his personal secretary died and they've let up on the restrictions.
GANDHI: Yes, I have heard of Life Magazine. I have even heard of Margaret Bourke- White. But I don't know why either should be interested in an old man sitting in prison when the world is blowing itself to pieces.
GANDHI: Ah, but for me that's not much of an
GANDHI: No prison is rather agreeable to me, and there is no doubt that after the war, independence will come. My only worry is what shape it will take. Jinnah has
GANDHI: ( at first disconcerted, but then flowing ) Jinnah has has cooperated with the British. It has given him power and the freedom to speak, and he has filled the Muslims with fears of what will happen to them in a country that is predominantly Hindu. ( He stops, lowering his head gravely. ) That I find hard to bear even in
GANDHI: I have a friend who keeps telling me how much it costs him to keep me in
GANDHI: ( a bit more seriously ) But I know happiness does not come with things even twentieth century things. It can come from work, and pride in what you do. ( He looks at her steadily. ) It will not necessarily be "progress" for India if she simply imports the unhappiness of the West.
GANDHI: ( a thoughtful pause ) Not without defeats and great ( He looks at her. ) But are there no defeats in this war no pain? ( For a moment the thought hangs, and then Gandhi takes their hands back to the spinning. ) What you cannot do is accept injustice. From Hitler or anyone. You must make the injustice visible be prepared to die like a soldier to do so.
GANDHI: ( laughs ) No. That is what you get for distracting me.
GANDHI: ( trying to unravel the mess ) I expect you to show as much patience as I am now.
GANDHI: Every enemy is a human being even the worst of them. And he believes he is right and you are a beast. And if you beat him over the head you will only convince him. But you suffer, to show him that he is wrong, your sacrifice creates an atmosphere of understanding if not with him, then in the hearts of the rest of the community on whom he depends.
GANDHI: If you are right, you will win after much pain. If you are wrong, well, then, only you will suffer the blows.
NIGHT: Ba, Mirabehn and Bourke-White sit on straw mats around the room, an oil lamp is the only light. It is women's talk, but Ba is defending her husband, speaking simply, but with total Bourke-White accepts it at face value. She opens another line of inquiry.
BA: .not at all. Bapu has always said there were two kinds of slavery in India one for women, one for the untouchables and he has always fought against both.
BA: Yes. but we see each other in the But not at night.
BA: In Hindu philosophy the way to God is to free yourself of possessions and the passions that inflame to anger and jealousy. Bapu has always struggled to find the way to God.
BA: Four times he tried and failed. But then he took a solemn vow.
BA: ( a beat ) Not yet.
MAJOR: I've got permission to move her he can go too.
DOCTOR: She's had a coronary throm a serious heart failure. She wouldn't survive a trip. It's best to leave her and hope.
GANDHI: It is time for my walk I won't be
MOUNTBATTEN: We have come to crown victory with friendship to assist at the birth of an independent India and to welcome her as an equal member in the British Commonwealth of Nations. I am here to see that I am the last British Viceroy ever to have the honor of such a reception.
JINNAH: I don't give a damn for the independence of India! I am concerned about the slavery of Muslims!
JINNAH: I will not sit by to see the mastery of the British replaced by the mastery of the Hindus!
GANDHI: ( patiently, not yet believing it can't be settled ) Muslim and Hindu are the right and left eye of India. No one will be slave, no one master.
JINNAH: The world is not made of Mahatma I am talking about the real world.
NEHRU: The "real India" has Muslims and Hindus in every village and every city! How do you propose to separate Where there is a Muslim majority that will be Pakistan. The rest is your India.
JINNAH: Where there is a Muslim majority that will be Pakistan. The rest is your India.
PATEL: ( a forced patience ) Mohammed the Muslims are in a majority on two different sides of the country.
JINNAH: ( acidly ) Let us worry about Pakistan you worry about India.
MOUNTBATTEN: Gentlemen, perhaps we should
GODSE: ( with others ) Death to Jinnah! Death to Jinnah!
GANDHI: Thank God, they've stopped.
GANDHI: I'm your grand uncle but I can still walk either of you into the ground and I don't need to be pampered this
GANDHI: Finish your quota of spinning.
HINDU YOUTH: Bapu please. Don't do it!
GANDHI: ( impatiently ) What do you want me not to do? Not to meet with Mr. Jinnah? ( Fiercely ) I am a Muslim! ( He stares at them, then relents. ) And a Hindu, and a Christian and a Jew and so are all of you. When you wave those flags and shout you send fear into the hearts of your
GANDHI: This is not the India I want. Stop it. For God's sake, stop it.
JINNAH: Now, please, if you've finished your prayers, could we begin with business.
GANDHI: My dear Jinnah, you and I are brothers born of the same Mother India. If you have fears, I want to put them to rest. I am asking Panditji to stand down. I want you to be the first Prime Minister of India to name your entire cabinet, to make the head of every government department a Muslim.
NEHRU: Bapu, for me, and the rest, if that is what you want, we will accept it. But out there already there is rioting because Hindus fear you are going to give too much away.
PATEL: If you did this, no one could control it. No one.
JINNAH: It is your choice. Do you want an independent India and an independent Pakistan? Or do you want civil war?
KALLENBACH: Tomorrow. Tomorrow photograph him.
KALLENBACH: It is violence, and the fear of violence, that have made today what it is. Give him the dignity of his
KALLENBACH: Gandhi will pray for them.
NEHRU: ( fast, curt ) No. There just are not that many What's he to do?
MILITARY AIDE: What's he to do?
NEHRU: What he can!
NEHRU: He was right. It's insane anything would have been better.
PATEL: Have you found him?
NEHRU: He's in Noakhali.
NEHRU: He's tramping from village to village no police, no troops trying to quell the madness single-handedly. Maulana has gone to bring him back.
NEHRU'S VOICE: ( dull, lifeless ) What you have done in Noakhali is a miracle, Bapu, a miracle, but millions are on the move millions. There is no way to stop it. and no one can count the dead.
NEHRU: In Calcutta it's like civil war. The Muslims rose and there was a bloodbath, and now the Hindus are taking revenge and if we can't stop it there'll be no hope for the Hindus left in Pakistan.
PATEL: .an eye for an eye making the whole world blind.
AZAD: Aren't there any troops to spare?
NEHRU: ( tense, fragile ) Nothing nothing. The divisions in Bombay and Delhi can hardly keep the peace now. And each fresh bit of news creates another wave of mad.
PATEL: Could we cut all news off? I know
NEHRU: Bapu please. Where are you going.
GANDHI: ( sounding like an old man ) I don't want to hear more.
PATEL: ( impatiently ) We need your help!
GANDHI: There is nothing I can give.
AZAD: Where are you going?
GANDHI: CALCUTTA - EXTERIOR - NIGHT We are high. There are fires, the sounds of spasmodic gunfire, of looting, screams, the roar of police vehicles and occasional sirens. The camera zooms in on a poor quarter of artisan dwellings in narrow streets. Outside one of the houses is a car, an army jeep, policemen, a few soldiers and a group of people. It seems a little island of calm in a sea of wild On the roof of the house, a figure moves into the light.
POLICE COMMISSIONER: Sir, please, I don't have the men to protect you not in a Muslim house. Not this quarter.
GANDHI: I am staying with the friend of a
A YOUTH: There he is! Why are you staying at the home of a Muslim! They're murderers! They killed my family!
GANDHI: Because forgiveness is the gift of the brave.
YOUTH: To hell with you, Gandhi!!
GANDHI: ( to the youth ) Go do as your mother and father would wish you to do.
GANDHI: I have lived a lifetime. If I had shunned death or feared it I would not be here. Nor would you be concerned for me. Leave me and take your men. You have more important things to worry about.
WOMAN: Bapu. Allah be with you.
GANDHI: And with you. Pray. I cannot help you pray.
NEHRU: ( angrily ) No! There will not be a Hindu Police and a Muslim Police. There is one
NEHRU: Why must I read news like this in the paper?
NEHRU: Tell Patel. Arrange a plane. We will go Friday.
THE AIDE: Four days?
NEHRU: Gandhi turns to pat their joined hands with his other hand. He does so with effort, and at last he sees Patel.
GANDHI: ( He looks him over. ) You have gained weight. You must join me in the fast.
PATEL: ( wittily, warmly ) If I fast I die. If you fast people go to all sorts of trouble to keep you alive.
NEHRU: Bapu, forgive me I've cheated. I could have come earlier. But your fast has helped. These last days people's minds have begun to turn to this bed and away from last night's atrocity. But now it is enough.
GANDHI: All that has happened is that I've grown a little thinner.
NEHRU: Tomorrow five thousand Muslim students of all ages are marching here in Calcutta for peace. And five thousand Hindu students are marching with them. It is all I'm glad but it will not be enough.
GANDHI: I'm glad but it will not be enough.
NEHRU: Bapu, you are not so young anymore. Don't worry for me death will be a deliverance. I cannot watch the destruction of all I have lived for.
GANDHI: Don't worry for me death will be a deliverance. I cannot watch the destruction of all I have lived for.
MIRABEHN: Gandhi looks at her, and then the microphone. When he speaks into the microphone his voice is very weak.
GANDHI: Each night before I sleep, I read a few words from the Gita and the Koran, and the Bible. tonight I ask you to share these thoughts of God with me.
GANDHI: ( the books are there, but he does it from memory of course ) I will begin with the Bible where the words of the Lord are, "Love thy neighbor as thyself". and then our beloved Gita which says, "The world is a garment worn by God, thy neighbor is in truth thyself". and finally the Holy Koran, "We shall remove all hatred from our hearts and recline on couches face to face, a band of
MIRABEHN: "Lead Kindly Light, amidst the circling gloom." "The night is dark, and I am far from home, Lead thou me on."
NEHRU: ( hysterically ) Who dares say such things! Who?! ( And he is running at them and they spread in fear. ) Come! Kill me first! Come! Where are you?! Kill me first!
MIRABEHN: His pulse is very irregular the kidneys aren't functioning.
NEHRU: Bapu, I have brought Mr. Suhrawardy. It was he who called on the Muslims to rise; he is telling them now to go back to their homes, to lay down their arms.
NEHRU: ( personally ) Think what you can do by living that you cannot do by dying.
NEHRU: ( pleadingly ) What do you want?
GANDHI: ( a moment ) That the fighting will stop that you make me believe it will never start again.
NEHRU: .Sometimes it is when you are quite without hope and in utter darkness that God comes to the rescue. Gandhiji is dying because of our madness. Put away your "revenge." What will be gained by more killing? Have the courage to do what you know is right. For God's sake, let us embrace like
GOONDA LEADER: It is our promise. We stop. It is a
GANDHI: Go try God by with you.
NAHARI: Mirabehn and Azad start to move toward him the man looks immensely strong and immensely unstable. But Gandhi holds up a shaking hand, stopping them. Nahari's face is knotted in emotion, half anger, half almost a child's fear but there is a wild menace in that instability.
NAHARI: Eat! I am going to hell but not with your death on my soul.
GANDHI: Only God decides who goes to hell.
NAHARI: ( stiffening, aggressive ) I I killed a child. ( Then an anguished defiance ) I smashed his head against a wall.
GANDHI: ( in a fearful whisper ) Why? Why?
NAHARI: ( tears now and wrath ) They killed my son my boy! The Muslims killed my son. they killed him.
NAHARI: The Muslims killed my son. they killed him.
GANDHI: I know a way out of hell. Find a child a child whose mother and father have been killed. A little boy about this high. .and raise him as your own.
GANDHI: Find a child a child whose mother and father have been killed. A little boy about this high. .and raise him as your own.
GANDHI: .and raise him as your own.
GANDHI: Only be sure. that he is a Muslim. And that you raise him as one. Go go. God bless you.
GANDHI: ( gently, exhaustedly ) Go go. God bless you.
CONSTABLE: Yes, sir, yes, sir,
CONSTABLE: ( writing, from the phone ) Accident, "Christie crossroads," a lorry and a rickshaw. Yes, sir, I have it.
SERGEANT: I wouldn't have believed it, Mr. Sergeant, it's a bloody miracle.
SENIOR OFFICER: Sergeant, it's a bloody miracle.
MIRABEHN: Bapu, there's been no fighting anywhere. It has stopped the madness has stopped. It is foolish if it is just to save the life of an old man.
GANDHI: It is foolish if it is just to save the life of an old man.
MIRABEHN: No. no. In every temple and mosque they have pledged to die before they lift a hand against each other.
PATEL: Gandhi looks at Nehru. Nehru just nods tautly. Gandhi looks down, then lifts his head to Azad.
GANDHI: Maulana, my friend, could I have some orange juice. Then you and I will take a piece of bread together.
NEHRU: You see, Bapu, it is not difficult. I have fasted only a few hours and I accomplished what you could not do in as many days.
GANDHI: That is how you eat muli.
GANDHI: ( to the photographer ) I'm not sure I want to be remembered that way.
PATEL: No, he'll be remembered for tempting
ABHA: Mickey Mouse.
GANDHI: ( a grin, in the mood of their "flirtation" ) I'm simply going to prove to Muslims there, and Hindus here, that the only devils in the world are those running around in our own hearts and that's where all our battles ought to be fought. And what kind of a warrior have you been in that warfare? Not a very good one. That's why I have so much tolerance for the other scoundrels of the world.
GANDHI: Not a very good one. That's why I have so much tolerance for the other scoundrels of the world.
GANDHI: Ask Panditji to to consider what we've discussed.
GANDHI: ( of the photographs ) ( a plea ) One more.
GANDHI: You're a temptress.
GANDHI: Nothing's more dangerous, especially for an old man.
MIRABEHN: He thinks he's failed.
MIRABEHN: I am blinded by my love of him, but I think when we most needed it, he offered the world a way out of madness. But he doesn't see it. and neither does the world.
GANDHI: Allah be with you. Brother, Bapu is already late for
MANU: ( to someone ) Brother, Bapu is already late for
GANDHI: Oh, God. oh, God.
GANDHI'S VOICE: ( weak, struggling, as he spoke the words to Mirabehn ) .There have been tyrants and murderers and for a time they can seem invincible. But in the end they always fall. Think of it always. When you are in doubt that that is God's way, the way the world is meant to be. think of that.
THE END: Writers : John Briley
