FADE IN: A white title appears on a black screen. The title fades off, replaced by a second title. The second title fades off, leaving a dark screen. The darkness gradually gives way to a dawning light. We are confronted with sight of a barren, empty landscape. A wide expanse of wasteland. Suddenly, without warning, an elephant tusk falls from the sky and crashes onto the parched ground. The earth-shuddering impact causes the tusk to rebound once in slow motion before finally settling to the desert floor in a cloud of dust. The first tusk is quickly followed by a second, also dropping from the heavens. It lands near the first. Another tusk smashes to earth several yards away. Yet another comes crashing into the foreground. Finally the dust settles upon a graveyard of tusks.
DISSOLVE TO: A BARREN, EMPTY LANDSCAPE In another region of the wasteland, a forest of tree trunks suddenly rains down from the sky. The trunks thump to the hard ground, also rebounding in slow motion. Cleanly sawn, branchless, palm-like trunks, they come to rest in the dust only to be followed by a second cascade of lumber. When the dust finally clears. the felled tree trunks lie in a huge, log-jam in the desert.
DISSOLVE TO: A BARREN, EMPTY LANDSCAPE Next to descend from the sky, a torrent of firewood. One shower after another, crashing to the plain. Enough chopped lumber to fuel a thousand hearths.
DISSOLVE TO: A BARREN, EMPTY LANDSCAPE Joining the rest of the debris is a deluge of slate - sheets of shale from a great unseen quarry in the sky come slamming to earth. Some of the pieces shattering, some rebounding into the air until the granite litters acres of landscape as far as the eye can see.
DIRECTOR JOSEF: You keep your work station so clean, Jerome.
JEROME: Next to Godliness, isn't that what they say? The Director smiles at the notion and places a computer disc on Jerome's desk.
DIRECTOR JOSEF: I reviewed your flight plan. Not one error in a hundred thousand keystrokes. Phenomenal. It's right that someone like you is taking us to the Belt. You have a substance test. The Director briskly departs, Irene in tow. At a nearby work station, a painfully thin programmer, NAPOLEON, perks up at the mention of the test. Jerome merely shrugs and pretends to reach down and scratch his ankle. However he surreptitiously produced one of Eugene's transparent specimen bags from his sock. An EXTREME CLOSE UP reveals the bag's contents - flakes of skin, hair follicles, eyelashes, a fingernail. Cupping the bag in his hand to avoid detection, Jerome sprinkles the fraudulent body matter over his keyboard, desk surfaces and the floor around his work station. He opens his desk drawer and casually scatters the remainder of the bag. Finally he inspects a comb already laced with two hair follicles. Jerome rises from his work station and makes his way towards the testing lab.
LAMAR: ( staring admiringly at the discharge ) Jerome.never shy. Pisses on command. You've got a beautiful cock. I ever told you that, Jerome?
JEROME: ( deadpan as he continues to urinate ) Only every time I'm in here.
LAMAR: I see a lot of cocks. I speak from experience. Yours is a beautiful example. Why didn't my folks order a cock like that for me? LAMAR pours the urine sample into a high-tech device where it is instantly analyzed. The urine identifies Jerone while also registering a negative drug reading. The computer reads If everything goes to plan, this could be the last time I see you for a while. One week to go. Please tell me you're the least bit excited.
LAMAR: ( walking Jerome to the door ) If everything goes to plan, this could be the last time I see you for a while. One week to go. Please tell me you're the least bit excited.
JEROME: I'll tell you at the end of the week. Jerome departs.
NURSE: What are you doing?
MARIA: ( shaking her head ) I can't do this.
NURSE: ( misinterpreting the problem ) I told you, the government pays. It's all taken care of.
MARIA: No, you don't understand. I The nurse places a comforting hand on Maria's shoulder.
NURSE: ( reassuring ) The doctor will give you something.
MARIA: ( removing the hand, adamant ) I'm not doing it.
NURSE: ( trying to make her see reason ) Honey, you've made one mistake
NURSE: ( softening her tone ) I've read your profile. I don't know about the father but you carry enough hereditary factors on your own. ( pause ) You can have other children.
MARIA: ( holding her swollen stomach protectively ) Not like this one.
NURSE: ( trying to be diplomatic ) Honey, look around you. The world doesn't want one like that one.
MARIA: ( irate ) You don't know what it will be!
NURSE: ( calling out to Maria as she disappears out of the door ) The child won't thank you!
ANTONIO: What's wrong? Of course, there was nothing wrong with me. Not so long ago I would have been considered a perfectly healthy, normal baby. Ten fingers, ten toes. That was all that used to matter. But now my immediate well-being was not the sole concern. Antonio turns his attention from his baby to the data appearing on the monitor. We see individual items highlighted amongst the data - "NERVE CONDITION - PROBABILITY 60%", "MANIC DEPRESSION -
NURSE: The name? For the certificate.
MARIA: ( correcting her ) No, Vincent Antonio.
ANTONIO: ( correcting her ) No, Vincent Antonio.
MARIA: ( hysterical ) Oh, Vincent, Vincent, Vincent.I can't let you out of my sight. I was born Vincent Antonio Luca. And from an early age I came to think of myself as others thought of me - chronically ill. Every skinned knee and runny nose treated as if it were life-threatening.
GENETICIST: ( to the nurse, without taking Put up the dish.
GENETICIST: Your extracted eggs. .Maria, have been fertilized with. Antonio's sperm and we have performed an analysis of the resulting pre-embryos. After screening we're left with two healthy boys and two healthy girls. Naturally, no critical pre-dispositions to any of the major inheritable diseases. All that remains is to select the most compatible candidate. Maria and Antonio exchange a nervous smile.
GENETICIST: First, we may as well decide on gender. Have you given it any thought?
MARIA: ( referring to the toddler on her knee ) We would like Vincent to have a brother. you know, to play with. You've already specified blue eyes, dark hair and fair skin. I have taken the liberty of eradicating any potentially prejudicial conditions - premature baldness, myopia, alcoholism and addictive susceptibility, propensity for violence and obesity
GENETICIST: You've already specified blue eyes, dark hair and fair skin. I have taken the liberty of eradicating any potentially prejudicial conditions - premature baldness, myopia, alcoholism and addictive susceptibility, propensity for violence and obesity
MARIA: ( interrupting, anxious ) We didn't wantdiseases, yes.
ANTONIO: ( more diplomatic ) We were wondering if we should leave some things to chance.
GENETICIST: ( reassuring ) You want to give your child the best possible start. Believe me, we have enough imperfection built-in already. Your child doesn't need any additional burdens. And keep in mind, this child is still you, simply the best of you. You could conceive naturally a thousand times and never get such a result.
ANTONIO: ( squeezing Maria's hand ) He's right, Maria. That's right. Is there any reason you'd want a left-handed ( blank ) Er, no.
GENETICIST: Is there any reason you'd want a left-handed Er, no.
ANTONIO: ( blank ) Er, no.
GENETICIST: ( explaining ) Some believe it is associated with creativity, although there's no evidence. Also for sports like baseball it can be an advantage.
ANTONIO: ( shrugs ) I like football.
GENETICIST: ( injecting a note of levity ) I have to warn you, Mr Luca, he's going to be at least a head taller than you. Prepare for a crick in the neck in sixteen years time.
GENETICIST: ( scanning the data on the screen ) Anything I've forgotten?
MARIA: ( hesitant about broaching the subject ) We want himwe were hoping he would get married and have children. We'd like ( conspiratorial smile ) I understand. That's already been taken care of. ( an afterthought ) Now you appreciate I can only work with the raw material I have at my disposal but for a little extra.I could also attempt to insert sequences associated with enhanced mathematical or musical ability.
GENETICIST: ( conspiratorial smile ) I understand. That's already been taken care of. ( an afterthought ) Now you appreciate I can only work with the raw material I have at my disposal but for a little extra.I could also attempt to insert sequences associated with enhanced mathematical or musical ability.
MARIA: ( suddenly enthused ) Antonio, the choir.
GENETICIST: ( interjecting, covering himself ) I have to caution you it's not fool-proof. With multi-gene traits there can be no guarantees.
ANTONIO: How much extra?
GENETICIST: It would be five thousand more. Antonio's face falls.
ANTONIO: I'm sorry, there's no way we can.
GENETICIST: Don't worry. You'll probably do just as well singing to him in the womb. We can implant the most successful pre-embryo tomorrow afternoon. Maria is staring at the four magnified clumps on the screen.
MARIA: What will happen to the others?
GENETICIST: ( reassuring ) They are not babies, Maria, merely "human possibilities".
GENETICIST: Smaller than a grain of sand.
DISSOLVE TO: INT. TRACT HOME. DAY. A red pencil draws a mark on a doorway at the height of a child's head. The child moves away and the name, "ANTON 11" is written beside the mark by proud father, ANTONIO. There is little physical similarity between 11-YEAR-OLD ANTON and 13-YEAR-OLD VINCENT standing beside him, apart from their height. In fact Vincent is mortified to see that his younger brother's mark is a fraction of an inch higher than the mark beside his own name, "VINCENT 13". Vincent runs from the room.
ANTON: How many astronauts are there, anyway? Vincent ignores him and continues to reel out the string.
ANTON: I bet Vincent stops and regards his younger brother with contempt.
VINCENT: You're standing on Venus. Anton lifts his foot. There is a bead beneath it.
MOTHER: ( trying to break it gently ) Vincent, you have to be realistic. A heart condition like yours
VINCENT: I don't care. I'll take the risk.
MOTHER: It's not just about. Perhaps we could get you one of those new pacemakers. They're not perfect For God's sake, Vincent, don't you understand. The only way you'll see the inside of a space ship is if you're cleaning it! Vincent looks at his father in disbelief. On a dinner table on the other side of the living room, 15-YEAR- OLD ANTON looks up from the biological specimen he is studying with a magnifying glass.
FATHER: ( letting his frustration show ) For God's sake, Vincent, don't you understand. The only way you'll see the inside of a space ship is if you're cleaning it!
ANTON: ( cocky ) You sure you want to do this? It was the last time we swam together. Out into the open sea, like always, knowing each stroke towards the horizon was one we had to make back to the shore. Like always, the unspoken contest.
ANTONIO: Vincent, you damn fool! You could have killed Anton with your ridiculous contest! Why should he risk his life to save yours?! When are you going to get it through your thick headyou can't compete with your brother! Why try?! Maria takes Antonio aside. Anton and Vincent exchange a look.
ANTON: Why didn't you say anything?
VINCENT: Why didn't It's okay. It's the way they want it. It confirmed everything in the minds of my parents - that they had taken the right course with my younger brother and the wrong course with me. It would have been so much easier for everyone if I had slipped away that day. I decided to grant them that wish.
CAESAR: When you clean the glass, Vincent, don't clean it too well.
VINCENT: ( confused ) What do you mean?
CAESAR: ( glancing to the Gattaca workers ) You might get ideas.
VINCENT: But if the glass is clean, it'll be easier for you to see me when I'm on the other side of it. Caesar smiles at Vincent's cockiness.
OWNER: Where's Earl?
JEROME: He fell. Lucky it was only the second floor. The owner nods and returns to his magazine. When he looks up again one of his tripods is missing its telescope and Jerome is nowhere to be seen.
GERMAN: ( offering his hand ) Vincent, I'm German ( anticipating Vincent's response ) That's my name.
VINCENT: What do you think?
GERMAN: ( shrugs ) I think I could do something ( glancing to the text book ) provided you know what you're doing and you can meet the terms.
GERMAN: You got a photo of yourself? Vincent produces a snapshot of himself - torn from the family portrait. German feeds the snapshot into the pocket-sized computer he carries. The picture is instantly scanned and appears on the computer's small color screen. German returns the photograph and hastily departs. CAESAR, the elderly janitor, notices German's exit.
CAESAR: ( to Vincent ) I thought I told you not to get any ideas.
GERMAN: ( staring through his glasses ) German, is that you?
VINCENT: ( staring through his glasses ) German, is that you?
GERMAN: Vincent, come down. I've found him.
GERMAN: ( enthusiastically reading from data on his portable screen as he walks ) He has the heart of an ox. He could run through a Goddamn wallif he could still run. Actually, he was a big college swimming star.
VINCENT: I hope he's not just a body.
GERMAN: No problem. Before he dropped out he was an honor student, the right majors
VINCENT: How do I square the accident?
GERMAN: ( still reading data from his palm-top computer ) It happened in Australasia. He checked in yesterday. No family complications, no record he ever broke his neck. As far as anybody's concerned, he's still a walking, talking, fully-productive member of society. You just have to get him off the pipe and fill in the last two years of his life. ( correcting himself ) Excuse me, your life.
VINCENT: ( looking around for a likely candidate but finding none ) Where is he?
GERMAN: ( smiling confidently What did I tell you? Which one's the mirror?
VINCENT: ( still not fully convinced ) That's the hair color in his profile?
GERMAN: ( touching his own dark strands ) I'd have to bleach my hair.
VINCENT: ( touching his own dark strands ) I'd have to bleach my hair.
GERMAN: ( irritated, impatient ) Why are you inventing problems? You two are a couple of goddam clones. You look so right together, I want to double my fee.
VINCENT: ( a thought occurs, addressing the paraplegic for the first time ) How tall are you?
EUGENE: ( deadpan ) Four foot six.
VINCENT: Okay, how tall did you
EUGENE: ( apathetic, still under the influence of whatever he's been smoking ) Six one.
VINCENT: ( to German, disappointed ) He's too tall.
GERMAN: ( shrugs ) You can wear lifts.
VINCENT: Even with lifts I'm never that tall.
GERMAN: There's a way.
VINCENT: You okay, Jerome?
EUGENE: ( ironically referring to their mutual immobility ) Yeah. You want to go dancing tonight?
VINCENT: What's wrong with it?
EUGENE: I think I'd better choose the menu. After all, you're learning how to be me, I'm not learning how to be you.
VINCENT: ( shrugs ) Suit yourself.
EUGENE: ( trying to be more diplomatic ) Listen, I don't want you to think I'm ungrateful I know you and that little brokerwhat do you call him?
VINCENT: You're both going to a lot of trouble Maybe you can con somebody into believing you're me to get your foot in the doorbut once you're inside, you're on your own. I'm sure you're sincere. .but I was being groomed for something like this myself. Even without the accident I don't think I would have made it. My point ishow the hell do you expect to pull this off? Jerome merely stares back as if the thought of failure has never occurred to him.
EUGENE: You're both going to a lot of trouble Maybe you can con somebody into believing you're me to get your foot in the doorbut once you're inside, you're on your own. I'm sure you're sincere. .but I was being groomed for something like this myself. Even without the accident I don't think I would have made it. My point ishow the hell do you expect to pull this off? Jerome merely stares back as if the thought of failure has never occurred to him.
VINCENT: ( shrugs and states it simply ) I don't know exactly, Jerome.
EUGENE: ( laughing ) At least you're honest. ( a thought occurs ) Call me by my middle nameEugeneIf you're going to be Jerome, you may as well start getting used to it.
JEROME: ( guiltily closing the book ) I have to know where you come from.
EUGENE: If anybody asks, tell them the truth your family disowns you. You are a disappointment, Jerome.
JEROME: ( referring to Eugene's medal, impressed ) What about this?
EUGENE: Wrong color. It's silver. It's not easy living up to this. Eugene wheels away.
EUGENE: ( wheeling by, looking over Jerome's shoulder at the signature ) It needs work.
JEROME: ( rueful ) You had to be a right-hander.
EUGENE: Noone orders southpaws anymore.
GERMAN: ( inspecting the lens in Jerome's eye ) It's no good. I can see an edge. He may as well walk in there with a cane.
EUGENE: ( still grimacing, referring to the follicles ) You really need that much?
JEROME: ( yanking out another hair ) God, what wouldn't you do to leave the planet?
EUGENE: ( yanking out another hair ) God, what wouldn't you do to leave the planet?
JEROME: ( inspecting a hair follicle ) Leave? Just a few million years ago every atom in this hairin our bodieswas a part of a star. I don't see it as leaving. I see it as going home.
EUGENE: ( marvelling at Jerome's earnestness ) God, you're serious, aren't you?
JEROME: It's not too late to back out.
EUGENE: You don't know what a relief it is not to be me. Are you sure you want the job? Jerome contemplates the question for a moment.
JEROME: What about you? What's in this for you, Eugene?
EUGENE: ( referring to the bladder bag he wears ) Listen, I bag this stuff anyway. It may as well pay my rent.
TECHNICIAN: ( reading off the profile ) ( perplexed ) What about the interview?
JEROME: ( perplexed ) What about the interview?
TECHNICIAN: ( referring to the cup ) That was it.
EMPLOYEE 1: ( staring at the Director's body ) Yeah, awful it didn't happen
EMPLOYEE 2: Yeah, awful it didn't happen Nervous smirks from nearby employees. We focus on JEROME. Standing slightly apart from the others, he does not appear to share the joke, or perhaps even hear it. Jerome watches, wide- eyed, as a DETECTIVE approaches his work station with a mini- vac. A chill goes through Jerome as the detective's cleaner passes over his desk. Jerome is distracted by a smear on the window, obstructing his view. Without thinking, he breathes on the glass and rubs the smear away with his elbow. Nearby, elderly janitor, CAESAR notices Jerome's fastidious act and reads the panic in Jerome's eyes. DIRECTOR JOSEF suddenly appears at Jerome's shoulder. Standing a pace behind the Director, computer notepad in hand, is IRENE.
DIRECTOR JOSEF: You're lucky to be getting out of this.
JEROME: We're still going ahead as planned?
DIRECTOR JOSEF: The launch window is only open until week's end. Tragic though this event may be, it hasn't stopped the planets turning. He glances towards a group of Detectives headed by HUGO.
DIRECTOR JOSEF: You'll have to excuse me, Jerome. I have to meet with the authoritiesnaturally, we're co-operating in any way, although I won't tolerate a major disruption. I wish I was going with you, Jerome. As the pair depart, Jerome and Irene exchange a glance. Irene is also aware of Jerome's unease.
EMPLOYEE 3: ( sarcastic aside ) What, no counselling?
IRENE: Excuse me, Jerome. I'm sorry to bother you. Jerome turns, not displeased by the interruption.
JEROME: No bother.
IRENE: ( referring to her notepad ) I've been asked to compile a log for the investigatorsthey want to know everyone's whereabouts last night.
JEROME: Last night? I was at home. Irene makes a note with her stylus.
IRENE: Can that be, er, verified? Were you alone?
JEROME: No it can't be verified. Yes I was alone. Irene makes another note.
JEROME: ( wry smile ) Looks bad, doesn't it, Irene? What about you? Where were you last night?
IRENE: I was at home.
JEROME: ( hesitant ) ( teasing ) So we don't know for sure about you, either.
IRENE: ( hesitant ) ( teasing ) So we don't know for sure about you, either.
JEROME: ( teasing ) So we don't know for sure about you, either.
IRENE: ( wary, wondering where the conversation is headed ) Why don't we say we were together?
JEROME: Why don't we say we were together?
IRENE: ( confused ) Why would we do that?
JEROME: I have better things to do this week than answer the foolish questions of some flatfoot. Don't you? Irene contemplates the question.
JEROME: ( gently pressing ) Well, shall we say we spent the evening together?
IRENE: To be convincing, Jerome, I would have to know what that was like. Irene turns and departs. Jerome watches her go.
EUGENE: You didn't forget the truffles? JEROME places the items in the refrigerator in the bathroom and retrieves a bottle of vodka - the vodka incongruous-looking beside the blood and urine specimens. Joining Eugene at his workbench, he pours them both a drink.
EUGENE: ( sensing something amiss, trying to keep his humor ) Who died?
JEROME: The Mission Director.
EUGENE: ( misinterpreting the deadpan remark ) You wish.
JEROME: They found him in his office this morning beaten so bad they had to check his nametag. Eugene takes in the news, a smile broadening across his face.
EUGENE: What an act of benevolencea service to the community. So that's it. Now there's nothing between you and ignition.
JEROME: He was still warm when they confirmed.
EUGENE: ( confused by Jerome's attitude ) This calls for a celebration. Doesn't it?
JEROME: The place is crawling with Hoovers.
EUGENE: So what? You didn't kill him, did you? Jerome shoots him a glance for the inappropriate remark.
JEROME: That's not the point.
EUGENE: ( scoffing ) Hey, how much of you can be there? Even if the "J. Edgars" do find something, in a week ( glancing up to the night sky ) you'll be slightly out of their jurisdiction. ( gently chiding ) Come on, we've got to get drunk immediately.
JEROME: ( still tempering Eugene's enthusiasm ) You're going to have to earn your supper. I've got my final physical tomorrow.
TECHNICIAN: How old?
YOUNG WOMAN: ( confused ) ( mustering patience, referring to the Q-tip ) The specimen.
TECHNICIAN: ( mustering patience, referring to the Q-tip ) The specimen.
YOUUNG WOMAN: ( proudly ) I kissed him five minutes ago. A real good one.
TECHNICIAN: ( long-suffering ) I'll see what I can do.
TECHNICIAN: ( remarking on the profile result ) 9.4.very nice.
MICHAEL: Good evening, gentlemen. Your table is ready. Not long now, sir. You'll be upstairs before you know it. We're going to miss you.
JEROME: Not as much as I'll miss your Stroganoff. I'd like to take one of your chefs with me.
WAITRESS: ( aghast at the sight of his lifeless legs ) I'm so sorry. Did I hurt you?
EUGENE: ( smiling, a trace of bitterness ) Honey, if you'd hurt me, I'd be cured.
EUGENE: You want to meet a real-life spaceman? Jerome, always aware, scanning the club, suddenly spies NAPOLEON, his Gattaca colleague, on the other side of the room. Napoleon is taking a hit from a vial concealed in his hand. Jerome abruptly turns his back to avoid being recognized.
JEROME: Let's get out of here.
EUGENE: ( knocking back his drink, misinterpreting the hasty departure ) You're right, there's more atmosphere where you're going.
JEROME: You drive.
EUGENE: ( screaming in both fear and exhilaration ) I gotta stop!! I gotta stop!!
JEROME: Keep going!! Keep going!! Finally the car spins to a halt in a cloud of dust. When the dust settles it is revealed that they have been circling the base of a huge satellite dish in a desolate location.
EUGENE: ( gently chiding Jerome over the joyride ) You idiot. You could ruin everything with a stunt like that.
EUGENE: ( gazing up into the night sky ) At least up there your piss will be worth something. ( smiling at the thought ) You'll all be showering in it, right?
JEROME: ( zipping his fly ) And drinking it. It's like Evian by the time it's filtered.
EUGENE: ( referring to the rocket ship ) What is that one? ( looking at his watch ) 11.15 to the port. A maintenance crew.
JEROME: ( looking at his watch ) 11.15 to the port. A maintenance crew.
EUGENE: How long do you stay up there before you go?
JEROME: A day or so.
EUGENE: ( beaming ) I still can't believe they're sending you to the Beltyou of all peoplenever meant to be born, on a mission to discover the origin of life.
JEROME: You should be going instead of me. Jerome taps Eugene's lifeless legs with his foot.
JEROME: Up there they wouldn't be a problem.
EUGENE: ( glancing heavenwards, shaking his head ) You know I'm scared of heights.
INVESTIGATOR: ( to the tongue, as he inserts the tip of the swab into an analyzer ) Let's see what you've got to say for yourself.
ASSISTANT: The tongue is male. Mature. Blonse hair. Brown eyes. Light complexion. Between 5'11 and 6'1. Pronounced Caucasian nose. Thin lips. Weak chin. Lobeless ears. Prematurely balding. Slightly bow-legged. Broad shoulders. Barrel chest. The tongue is blind?
INVESTIGATOR: ( interest piqued ) ( mildly amused, checking the monitor for himself ) The tongue is blind?
ASSISTANT: ( confused ) Who cuts out the tongue of a blind man?
INVESTIGATOR: ( shrugs ) Someone who is mindful that the blind still speak.
EUGENE: ( sarcastically referring to the pool of vomit ) I'm sorry. Did you want it?
EUGENE: Let me get it for you. Eugene bends down to scoop up some vomit with his hand but the elevator arrives and Jerome quickly wheels him away. Eugene's head flops to the side as he passes out.
EUGENE: ( maudlin, sobbing like a child ) I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
JEROME: ( attempting to comfort ) It's okay, Eugene.
EUGENE: You know I wasn't drunkI knew what I was doing when I walked in front of that car
JEROME: What car?Go to sleep.
EUGENE: I walked right in front of it. I was never more sober in my life. Jerome looks at Eugene's lifeless legs, trying to cover his shock at the revelation.
JEROME: It's all right.
EUGENE: ( grabbing Jerome by the collar ) I'm proud of you, Vincent.
JEROME: ( smiling to himself ) You must be drunk to call me Vincent.
DETECTIVE HUGO: I don't understand why you were dragged out here, Sir. It's hardly worth wasting your timea no-nothing case like this.
INVESTIGATOR: ( gently rebuking his subordinate ) A man's dead, Detective.
DETECTIVE HUGO: Of course, Sir. We're checking the entry log, alibis, grudges.
INVESTIGATOR: DETECTIVE HUGO ( looking out over the balcony ) ( searching for the words )
DETECTIVE HUGO: ( looking out over the balcony ) I look around, I see a lot of dry eyes. The Director was not. ( searching for the words ) .universally loved. He was leading the cut-backs in the program. You're looking at a room full of motives.
INVESTIGATOR: ( shaking his head adamantly, referring to the bag in his hand ) No, this is your man.
DETECTIVE HUGO: ( not so convinced ) With respect, Sirit may be the only unaccountable specimen but the profile
INVESTIGATOR: Hugo refers to a print-out of 20-YEAR-OLD VINCENT's profile including his Genetic Quotient. ( The fifteen-year-old photo of Vincent now bears little resemblance to his assumed identity. )
DETECTIVE HUGO: According to this, he's a sick man. Congenital heart condition. Who knows how long the specimen has been here but there's an 80 percent chance the owner of that eyelash has already died himself from natural causes.
INVESTIGATOR: ( terse ) So there's a 20 percent chance he's not dead.
DETECTIVE HUGO: Even if this Vincent Luca likely he could bludgeon a man to death?
INVESTIGATOR: No. Not The Investigator's tone suggests that the identity of the culprit is no longer a matter for debate. There is an awkward pause before the Detective falls into step with his superior.
DETECTIVE HUGO: I take it you're thinking along the lines of a robbery gone soura thief disturbed in the act? The Investigator merely shrugs.
DETECTIVE HUGO: ( skeptical ) Of course that doesn't jibe with what we found. This was an angry killing.
INVESTIGATOR: ( glancing to the profile in Hugo's hand ) Who knows with these "deficients"? His profile indicates a proclivity for violence.
DETECTIVE HUGO: ( trying to appear co-operative ) I'll run a crossover on the eyelash for any family or associate connections
INVESTIGATOR: I've already run it. There's no record of any living relative.
DETECTIVE HUGO: What a pity.
INVESTIGATOR: ( irritated, glancing to the sample bag ) Detective Hugo, it's a simple case of lost and found. All we have to do is locate the man who's minus an eyelash and this murder will solve itself.
MEDICAL DIRECTOR: Napoleon, you're late for your substance test. Napoleon looks up, ashen-faced. Jerome intervenes.
JEROME: Director, Napoleon's helping me today. The Director regards both men suspiciously.
MEDICAL DIRECTOR: Well, you take it The Medical Director departs. Napoleon, stunned by the reprieve, approaches Jerome's work station and pretends to study the program on his computer screen.
NAPOLEON: Why did you do that?
JEROME: ( exiting to the testing lab ) Don't worry about it.
TRAINER: You're excused, Irene. You may resume your duties. On the way into the work-out facility Jerome stubs out his cigarette in a stainless steel ashtray. Only we are aware of the slim credit card-sized recording device that he furtively slips out of his cigarette pack and secrets in his hand. As he takes his place on one of the treadmills and adheres the cordless electrode to his chest, Jerome surreptitiously attaches his device to the underside of the running machine's control INT. GATTACA - WORK-OUT OBSERVATION ROOM. DAY. From a mezzanine floor above the work-out room, LAMAR, the medical officer, monitors computer read-outs displaying the pace and pulse of the runners on each treadmill machine.
LAMAR: ( marveling at Jerome's heartrate ) Six miles later it's still beating like a Goddamn metronome. I could play piano by that heartbeat of his.
DETECTIVE HUGO: Director Josef, this is our lead Investigator. The two men exchange a polite handshake. However the Investigator is immediately taken with the SOLE RUNNER with his back to him, on the treadmill below.
INVESTIGATOR: How often do you test, Director?
DIRECTOR JOSEF: ( intrigued ) Surely you know what you have.
INVESTIGATOR: ( intrigued ) Surely you know what you have.
DIRECTOR JOSEF: We have to be certain. Once they're up, we can hardly turn the boat around. On the treadmill below, Jerome glances to his watch as he runs, the distress starting to show. Caught up in the conversation, Lamar has forgotten to end the work-out. Remembering, he finally presses the "WARM-DOWN" button, slowing the treadmill.
LAMAR: ( still marveling at Jerome ) I swear if I went to lunch and came back, he'd still be there. We believe we have a suspect.
INVESTIGATOR: We believe we have a suspect.
DIRECTOR JOSEF: What a relief.
INVESTIGATOR: ( referring to the profile of VINCENT on Hugo's computer notepad ) This unaccountable specimen was found in the south wing corridor.
DETECTIVE HUGO: An age enhancement is being prepared as we speak.
DIRECTOR JOSEF: ( referring to his assistant ) Irene will make it available to security.
CAESAR: I'll take care of that for you, Mr Morrow. The two men exchange a conspiratorial smile.
JEROME: ( eyes fixed on the view ) We were looking at each other. You stopped.
IRENE: I'm sorry. I didn't mean anything.
JEROME: ( shrugging as if it makes no difference to him ) We were just looking.
IRENE: I know about you. Jerome turns to her, startled, trying to read her face. Irene takes a deep breath and abruptly plucks a long, dark hair from her head.
IRENE: ( offering the hair to Jerome ) Here, take it.
IRENE: ( a challenge ) If you're still interested, let me know.
JEROME: ( never taking his eyes from her ) Sorry, the wind caught it.
JEROME: ( as if making conversation ) Have they found our friend?
IRENE: ( shrugs ) It was a mercy-killing after all.
JEROME: ( shrugs ) It was a mercy-killing after all.
IRENE: They found an eyelash.
JEROME: In the South Wing.
IRENE: In the South Wing.
JEROME: Does it have a name?
IRENE: Just some In-Valid. Vincent Jerome turns away to disguise his alarm. He quickly recovers.
JEROME: Perhaps we ought to celebrate, Irene.
IRENE: ( a smile playing around her lips ) You celebrate, Jerome?
EUGENE: ( into phone ) I know what I ordered. I ordered "Honey Dawn" and you sent me "Summer Wheat".
EUGENE: Any particular reason?
JEROME: ( collecting up sample bags from the work bench ) We can't stay here.
EUGENE: What are you talking about?
JEROME: They think I offed the Director. Eugene wheels himself over to Jerome, unconcerned.
EUGENE: What makes them think that?
JEROME: They found my eyelash.
EUGENE: ( a flicker of anxiety ) In a corridor.
JEROME: In a corridor.
EUGENE: ( blasÈ once again ) Could be worse. They could have found it in your eye.
JEROME: ( resuming his collection of samples ) Come onwe're taking off.
EUGENE: I'm not going anywhere. Less than a week to go. Not on your life
JEROME: You don't understand, they'll make the connection, they'll hoover again. We should cut our losses.
EUGENE: ( angrily grabbing a tray from Jerome's hands ) Where is your head, Jerome? You're acting like a guilty man. They won't marry the eyelash to you. They won't believe that one of their elite navigators could have suckered them for the last five years.
JEROME: They'll recognize me.
EUGENE: ( scoffing ) How could they recognize you? ( referring to the torn photo of 20-year-old Vincent on the wall ) I don't recognize you. Anyway, you don't have a choice. You run, you may as well sign a confession, turn us both in right now. No, we stick this out find out what we can but change nothing. This is a minor inconvenience is all it is. We've taken worse heat than this. ( angry now ) Jesus, if I'd known you were going to go belly up on me at the last fucking gasp, I wouldn't have bothered. You can't quit on me now. I've put too much into this. ( returning the samples to the fridge ) Besides, this stuff is mine. I had other offers, you know. I could have rented myself out to somebody with a spine. You want me to wheel in there and finish the job myself? ( meeting Jerome's gaze ) We'll take off all right, from pad 18 just like we planned.
EUGENE: And keep your lashes on your lids where they belong. How could you be so careless?
JEROME: I'm sorry. I think I was crying. Eugene is uncomfortable at the notion.
EUGENE: Well save those tears. Jerome shrugs awkwardly and pours them both a drink.
JEROME: You really had other offers?
EUGENE: ( shrugs ) I'm sure I could have.
JEROME: Mind if I borrow a tie? EUGENE is more interested in the car parked outside the condominium. IRENE sits in a convertible Citroen DS, dressed in a classic but provocative black suit. Unaware that she is being observed she touches up her lipstick in the rearview mirror.
EUGENE: So it's not just the Hoovers who've got you rattled.
JEROME: You're the one who said not to change anything. She's my ear to the investigation.
EUGENE: ( skeptical ) Is that all?
JEROME: I've got enough on my mind without that.
EUGENE: If you say so. The stripe.
JEROME: ( agreeing with the selection ) Good choice.
JEROME: Not thirsty? We've got enough virgin samples to last us the week.
EUGENE: I don't feel too good. I think I'm still drunk from last night.
JEROME: Never stopped you before. And for God's sake stop plucking your hair. Someone went to a lot of trouble to make sure you wouldn't go bald.
EUGENE: If I were you I'd worry about myself. Haven't you forgotten something? Jerome pockets the spectacles and enters the bathroom for his contact lenses. The horn sounds outside the window a second time and Jerome hastily exits. We stay with Eugene. Irene catches a glimpse of him before he moves away from the window. Jerome emerges from the building. As the couple drive away, Eugene wheels himself to the full length mirror. He regards his own reflection for a moment and opens the mirror - a disguised door opening into the adjacent apartment. A cloud of condensed water vapor billows out. GERMAN, the DNA Broker, emerges with an ENGINEER. He sends the engineer on his way and joins Eugene at his desk. Eugene hands German a credit card that he wipes through his We still need to overhaul the back-up generator. What's going on, Eugene, I thought he was going away, not youyou going on vacation?
GERMAN: We still need to overhaul the back-up generator. What's going on, Eugene, I thought he was going away, not youyou going on vacation?
EUGENE: ( looking away ) You got it, German.
GERMAN: ( nodding thoughtfully ) You deserve it.
DETECTIVE HUGO: ( enthusiastic ) Not our fish, but sometihng stuck in the net.
DETECTIVE HUGO: This is the age enhancement we're working with. The Investigator ignores the photo, preferring instead to trust his own eye as he wanders along the line of suspects.
DETECTIVE HUGO: ( referring to the line-up ) As you requested, we've kept the parameters wider than usual.
INVESTIGATOR: We're in the wrong place. We're wasting time.
DETECTIVE HUGO: The Investigator wheels on Hugo, suddenly angry, clearly unused to having his judgement questioned.
INVESTIGATOR: There's that word again. I have a feeling This man doesn't play the odds, Detective. Not exactly a slave to probability. Is it "likely" that a man who has successfully eluded authorities for fifteen yearsa brutal killeris going to come to us now like a lamb?
DETECTIVE HUGO: ( taken aback by the outburst ) Is there something more we should know about this suspect, Sir? I mean besides what's on his sheet.
INVESTIGATOR: Since going underground, traces of this In-Valid have shown up at the scene of four serious felonies. Do you need any more than that?
DETECTIVE HUGO: With respect, Sir, many perfectly innocent citizens have left specimens at as many crime scenes. Maybe he's just unlucky.
INVESTIGATOR: I don't like anybody Widen the sweep. The West side. Draw a five mile radius around Gattaca. Hoover some of the classier establishments. Random car stops.
DETECTIVE HUGO: We're already getting complaints about frivolous search.
INVESTIGATOR: This is a murder investigation. The public should be happy to co-operate, to get this disease off the streets.
IRENE: ( catching his look of astonishment ) You didn't know?
JEROME: ( trying hard to convince ) ( picking up a resentment, confused ) You're angry
IRENE: ( picking up a resentment, confused ) You're angry
JEROME: Why would I be angry? It was beautiful. He quickly turns away to lead the applause. On stage, the pianist raises his hands to acknowledge the crowd. Both his hands contain a perfectly formed extra finger.
JOHN: Shit! One of those Hoovers is back. A prostitute, VALERIE, a slender, sylphlike beauty, joins him at the window.
VALERIE: It's alright. He's here to see me. Her client looks at her askance. Despite her assurances, he hurries into his clothes anyway.
VALERIE: ( to an unseen woman in the next room ) Sonja, I can't see anyone else tonight.
VALERIE: I don't understand you, Investigator. The Investigator glances idly in her direction.
VALERIE: ( teasing good-naturedly ) You hunt us by day and fuck us by night. Do you only get it up for In-valids?
VALERIE: Wouldn't you be happier with one of your made-to-order whores?
INVESTIGATOR: ( gently stroking her hair ) You are so beautiful, are you sure you weren't altered? This is not the face, the body, of a Godchild. How could something so lovely be a product of chance?
VALERIE: Is that what keeps you coming back? Look at you. Such angry, beautiful, perfect eyes. Do you ever wonder what they would see if they weren't quite so perfect? They will never see what I see. The Investigator tries to laugh off her assertion but his tight-lipped smile betrays his displeasure.
INVESTIGATOR: ( a cruel edge to his voice ) You have so much wrong with you, you'll be lucky to see next year.
VALERIE: Are you so much more alive, Investigator?
INVESTIGATOR: ( parting her legs ) I'm not paying you to talk.
JEROME: ( conspiratorial ) Better not. ( nodding in Irene's direction ) Don't want to give you a contaminated specimen.if you get my meaning.
JEROME: ( answering her unasked question ) You never know where those swabs have been.
IRENE: I want to show you something. She accelerates away. We see the road ahead from Jerome's POV. Without his contact lenses, it is a blur.
IRENE: ( calling back urgently from the other side, mindful of the light beginning to leak into the sky ) Come on! We'll miss it!
JEROME: Come on. We'll miss it.
IRENE: What did I tell you? Jerome nods. However, to his eyes the rising yolk is nothing but an out-of-focus, abstract ink blot.
IRENE: I envy you, Jerome.
JEROME: You'll be next.
IRENE: I don't think so. The only trip I'll make in space is around the sun on this satellite right here. Irene turns to Jerome.
IRENE: ( blurting out what's really on her mind ) Listen, I don't want to waste your time and I really don't want you to waste mine. I don't know what you're after but I have a feeling I'm not it.
IRENE: ( enjoying his unease ) It's here. My heart. ( adding quickly ) I'm carefulweekly check-ups. I'm on a drug maintenance program, blood thinners, ( slowly removing his hand ) I just want you to know what you'd be getting yourself into.
JEROME: What exactly is wrong?
IRENE: Nothing yet. I'll start experiencing symptoms in my late-fifties. But unless they come up with something between now and then, I won't live much past 67. Jerome's mouth drops a little, betraying his surprise at the statement from a woman plainly still in her twenties.
IRENE: Of course I think about it every day.
JEROME: ( still not quite recovered from his surprise ) Of course.
EUGENE: How was your evening?
JEROME: Complicated. I couldn't stop her apologizing.
EUGENE: ( teasing ) You are a catch. No doubt she's worried that she would lower the standard of your offspring. Everybody wants to "breed up". ( idly curious ) What's wrong with her?
JEROME: ( trying to be blasÈ ) You know how it is with these altered births somebody told her she's not going to live forever and she's been preparing to die ever You're not thinking of telling her, are you?
EUGENE: You're not thinking of telling her, are you?
JEROME: Of course not. But she's have to know eventually.
EUGENE: ( adamant ) She doesn't have to know. She doesn't want to know.
DETECTIVE HUGO: ( chagrined ) The skin flake was found in Michael's Restaurant. The employees are all accounted for.
INVESTIGATOR: A customer? Does this Michael's cater to misfits?
DETECTIVE HUGO: ( shifting the view of the map to include the Gattaca complex ) No. But one or two "borrowed ladders" have shown up there in the past.
DETECTIVE HUGO: We have to consider the possibility that he's playing somebody else's hand. A smile gradually broadens across the Investigator's face.
INVESTIGATOR: ( taking a perverse pleasure in the slowly dawning revelation ) Of course. He's a "de-gene-erate". ( glancing to a photo of the Gattaca crime scene ) He works at Gattaca. Why else would we find the eyelash near the washroom? Nobody stops to take a leak during a murder.
DETECTIVE HUGO: ( quickly covering himself ) It's still possible the eyelash specimen came from a janitor, delivery manit could have blown in through an open window.
INVESTIGATOR: ( mind racing ) He was afraid of being exposed. That's why he did it.
DETECTIVE HUGO: ( puzzled ) It is hard to believe he could be one of their elite workers. You've seen their security system. They know who works there. ( referring to 20-year-old Vincent's profile ) Even if you ignore the man's expiration date, his profile suggests that he doesn't have the mathematical propensity let alone the stamina to pass their physicals.
INVESTIGATOR: Don't underestimate these imposters.
DETECTIVE HUGO: ( skeptical, referring to a file of Gattaca employee ID photos ) None of the ID photos match the enhancement.
INVESTIGATOR: ( smiling to himself ) A man can change his facebut blood is forever. Sample every employee within the parameters I gave you. ( pause )
DETECTIVE HUGO: ( immediately protesting ) You know their workforce. Two-thirds at least fall into the category. We'll be closing down their operation for days. ( seeking a compromise ) At least go with a fingertip sample or urine.
INVESTIGATOR: ( shaking his head ) Blood. From the vein.
CAESAR: Look like anybody to you?
YOUNGER JANITOR: Not to me.
CAESAR: Ugly sonofabitch though, isn't he? Jerome half-smiles, realizing that the conversation is for his benefit. Having made it clear that they do not intend to expose their former colleague, the two janitors continue their rounds. Jerome crushes his paper cup. Forgetting himself, he drops the cup into the wastebasket.
DIRECTOR JOSEF: Somewhere in the dust of Gaspra is the key. Back to the beginning of the bookthe life we became. With the original building blocks who knows how far we can take "the godding".
MISSION COMMANDER: ( wry smile ) Even someone as advanced as Jerome will be last year's model by the time we're done.
JEROME: ( smiling back ) I wouldn't get your hopes up, Commander.
IRENE: Excuse me, Mr Morrow. The investigators have begun their testing.
DETECTIVE JOSEF: This is so inconvenient, Irene. They can make an exception for Jerome.
IRENE: I'm afraid not.
DIRECTOR JOSEF: I apologize, Jerome.
JEROME: It's not yor fault, Director. If your predecessor were still around we may not be going to Gaspra at all. That's what I would call inconvenient. Jerome exits the craft with Irene.
JEROME: ( referring to the table lined with syringes ) What's with the plungers, Lamar? What are you doing, opening a blood bank?
LAMAR: ( sarcastic ) The gentlemen of law enforcement are concerned that my testing methods may have been compromised.
JEROME: Having pulled away from Lamar's grasp, Jerome withdraws the bent needle himself, blood still squirting from his vein.
LAMAR: ( grabbing a nearby wad of gauze ) JesusI'm sorry, Jerome.
JEROME: ( unfazed, putting Lamar at his ease ) You must be out of practise, Lamar.
LAMAR: ( examining and removing the switched vial from the bent syringe ) I've got enough here.
JEROME: ( regarding the squimish detective, as he holds the gauze to his arm ) Need any more, you can always get it off his shoes.
IRENE: So you didn't do it after all.
JEROME: ( joking darkly ) I guess somebody beat me to it.
DETECTIVE HUGO: That's the last.
INVESTIGATOR: Something's not right.
DETECTIVE HUGO: ( losing his patience ) He's not here. It's a blind alley.
INVESTIGATOR: ( resolute ) No, we've missed something. We Hoover again.
DETECTIVE HUGO: We don't have the manpower.
INVESTIGATOR: Get it. From outside, if you have to.
DETECTIVE HUGO: From what budget?
INVESTIGATOR: ( angered by Hugo's excuses ) I'll take it out of your damn pension if you question my authority one more time!
DIRECTOR JOSEF: Would you care to lookin the telescope?
INVESTIGATOR: Thank you, no.
DIRECTOR JOSEF: ( still referring to the telescope ) One look through there and you would know why I can't possibly allow you to disrupt operations any further.
INVESTIGATOR: ( unfazed ) You're so unconcerned that you have a killer in your midst.
DIRECTOR JOSEF: Right now, a threat. I don't think you have any concept of what we do herehow meticulous our preparations must be. We are about to send twelve people through 140 million miles of blackness to rendezvous with an object the size of a house and the color of coal. So it's rather critical to point them in the right direction. And we certainly don't need you looking over our shoulders. Besides, I don't believe there is any evidence that the killer is amongst us. I don't see too many other dead bodies littering the place.
INVESTIGATOR: ( surveying the mostly empty facility ) No, but since there aren't too many live ones tonight either, you won't mind us conducting one further sweep. If he does not work here, then there should be no other trace of him. ( to Hugo ) I think you'd better get some people out of bed, ( a thought occurs ) In the meantime we can re-check his favorite
INVESTIGATOR: ( to Josef, referring to the telescope ) You see, Director, I prefer my microscope.
EUGENE: Where are we going?
JEROME: ( slightly guilty ) I'm sorry. I've got plans.
EUGENE: ( feigning hurt ) ( referring to his bandage ) She's already got her doubts. I have to act like nothing's wrong.
JEROME: ( referring to his bandage ) She's already got her doubts. I have to act like nothing's wrong.
EUGENE: I'm sure you'll be very convincing. Jerome ignores the remark.
EUGENE: Where are you taking her?
JEROME: Eugene looks at him askance.
JEROME: Everybody goes there.
EUGENE: ( incredulous, glancing around the room ) You may as well invite her here.
JEROME: ( afterthought as he picks up his jacket ) Will you be okay?
EUGENE: Don't worry about your little pin cushion. To be honest, I'm looking forward to having the place to myself.
JEROME: ( seeing through the bravado ) We'll still be able to talk when I'm away. The conversation will just keep getting longer.
EUGENE: How long?
JEROME: By the time I'm at the Belt, you phone and say, "How are you?" Forty-five minutes later I reply, "Not bad. How are you?"
EUGENE: I guess I'd better have something important to say if it takes that long to get an answer.
IRENE: ( wry smile, enjoying her fascination ) You've never been here? ( a dessert trolley is wheeled up ) Let me order for you.
JEROME: ( wry smile, enjoying her fascination ) You've never been here? ( a dessert trolley is wheeled up ) Let me order for you.
IRENE: I'd better not. She reaches for her elegant pill box. Jerome takes another So sure of what you can't do. Do you even know what it tastes like, Irene? Irene goes to deny it but cannot. MICHAEL suddenly approaches the table with a WAITER in tow. Irene is about to steal a taste of the dessert with her finger when their plates and glasses are whisked away and the table immediately hoovered. Michael whispers in Jerome's ear.
JEROME: So sure of what you can't do. Do you even know what it tastes like, Irene? Irene goes to deny it but cannot. MICHAEL suddenly approaches the table with a WAITER in tow. Irene is about to steal a taste of the dessert with her finger when their plates and glasses are whisked away and the table immediately hoovered. Michael whispers in Jerome's ear.
MICHAEL: Take the side door. Jerome looks up in time to see DETECTIVE HUGO coming through the front entrance with several other DETECTIVES.
DETECTIVE: ( to his colleagues ) Check for lenses, hairpieces
IRENE: Why are we leaving?
JEROME: ( attempting to explain the hasty exit ) Those checks take forever.
IRENE: ( stunned )
IRENE: What about the car?
JEROME: ( grabbing her by the hand ) Let's walk.
IRENE: Who are they?
JEROME: ( holding his bruised knuckles ) It's not safe. I shouldn't have brought you here.
IRENE: I can't.
JEROME: ( anxious ) Come on.
IRENE: My medication. I left it back there.
JEROME: We'll get it later. Irene, please. Irene realizes his seriousness. She begins to run with him. The clearing is wider than Jerome anticipated. They are only halfway across - extremely vulnerable if the Detective think yo look in their direction.
INVESTIGATOR: ( an accusing tone ) You run a clean establishment.
MICHAEL: Are you a health inspector?
INVESTIGATOR: ( showing Vincent's mugshot ) Do you recognize this man?
MICHAEL: My eyes aren't so good.
INVESTIGATOR: I bet. Hugo calls out from the side door where he has discovered his fallen colleague.
HUGO: The Investigator hurries to him.
INVESTIGATOR: ( to the still dazed Detective, examining his injuries ) Did he hit you with his fist?
DETECTIVE: ( head in his hands ) More like a hammer.
INVESTIGATOR: ( reprimanding the beaten Detective ) Don't touch your face. Don't swallow. Don't spit. ( to Hugo ) Quick, clean his teeth.
IRENE: ( upset, a strangled protest ) Are you trying to kill me? Are you?! Don't you understand, I can't do that!
JEROME: You just did. Irene looks back across the vast clearing they have just negotiated, realizing what she has just done. From across the other side of the clearing comes an echoing cry from the center FIGURE.
INVESTIGATOR: ( to Hugo, covering his frustration ) What are you waiting for?
DETECTIVE HUGO: Where do we start?
INVESTIGATOR: We'll vacuum these streets if we have to.
DETECTIVE: ( handing the Investigator Irene's pill box ) We caught them trying to flush these, Sir.
IRENE: So sure of what you can't do. Jerome follows her inside.
IRENE: ( referring to the shins ) What happened?
JEROME: You remember the '99 Chrysler LeBaron? It's the exact height of the front fender. Looked right instead of left.
IRENE: ( comforted by the thought ) So you're not so smart after all. ( awkward about raising the subject ) I want you to knowif it ever came to it I'd be willing to get an ovum from the Egg Bank. In fact, I'd rather use a donor egg ( quickly covering herself again ) if it came to it.
JEROME: But "if it came to it" then it couldn't have your How perfect does your child have to be?
IRENE: ( mildly irritated by what she perceives as his mocking ) You hypocrite. Do you think for one moment you'd be doing what you're doing if it wasn't for who you arewhat you are? Don't you get any satisfaction knowing that your children will be able to live to a ripe old age unless they do something foolish?
JEROME: That's precisely what won't do anything foolish or courageous or anythingworth a Goddamn. Irene is taken aback by Jerome's passion, regarding him in a new INT. EUGENE'S CONDOMINIUM. MORNING. EUGENE urinates into a large plastic container while drinking bottled water at the same time. He already has several other containers of urine on the table beside him.
HUGO: ( reading newspaper ) My wife and Iwe're thinking of starting a family.
INVESTIGATOR: ( shrugs, ambivalent ) Why not?
HUGO: These new personality corrections I've been reading about.
INVESTIGATOR: You worried about the cost?
HUGO: Not that.
INVESTIGATOR: ( regarding Hugo with a condescending smile ) They said the same thing about myopia and obesity. You think your children would be less human if they were less violent, angry, spiteful? Maybe they'd be more human. From where I sit the world could stand a little
DETECTIVE: Don't touch that. It's evidence. He puts a pile of discarded paper cups aside for later testing.
DETECTIVE HUGO: Positive saliva match. The cup was definitely used since the original sweep.
INVESTIGATOR: So we have two choices. Either our suspect came back to the murder scene for a drink of water and I don't know anybody that thirsty or. .he is here. We test again. You're right, Hugo, this was a desperate act. Someone had a lot to lose that nightperhaps their place in line. I'd like the profiles of everyone with an upcoming mission.
DIRECTOR JOSEF: ( nervous ) Twelve have a mission within the week.
INVESTIGATOR: This time I will supervise each test personally.
IRENE: What is it?
JEROME: I forgot somethingsomething at home. I'll see you later. Jerome kisses her. Irene, also aware of the trucks, interrogates Jerome with her eyes.
IRENE: I'll miss you. Jerome is still focussed on the entranceway.
IRENE: ( looking skywards ) when you go away.
JEROME: We could go together one day. Irene considers the idea. She enters Gattaca alone.
DETECTIVE HUGO: He's the only absentee.
DIRECTOR JOSEF: A little nausea. Quite common.
INVESTIGATOR: At least it's nothing contagious.
DIRECTOR JOSEF: ( unduly agitated ) I will not permit any further testing on the eve of a mission. We're already counting
IRENE: ( picking up a phone ) I'll call and let him know.
INVESTIGATOR: Let's not spoil the surprise. I understand you can show us the way. The anxious Director Josef calls out to protest one further time but the Investigator is on his way out of the door.
EUGENE: JEROME ( OC )
EUGENE: ( nonchalant ) I was never very good at it, remember?
INVESTIGATOR: ( taunting ) You don't know who he is, do you, Irene?
INVESTIGATOR: You think you have problems?
IRENE: ( a moment's hesitation ) Hello, sweatheart. Come on up.
EUGENE: Hello, sweatheart. Come on up.
EUGENE: Where's my kiss? The Investigator scrutinizes Irene's reaction. With only the merest hesitation she takes her cue from Eugene and kisses him affectionately on the forehead. She perches herself on the arm of the sofa. Eugene takes the opportunity to rest his arm on her leg.
IRENE: Good to see you're feeling better.
EUGENE: It's about the Director.
IRENE: It's about the Director.
EUGENE: ( feigning boredom )
EUGENE: Forgive me for not getting up. Irene puts a comforting hand on Eugene's shoulder.
IRENE: ( to the Investigator ) Couldn't we do this another time?
INVESTIGATOR: I don't believe so. Detective Hugo takes a seat in the chair beside the sofa and unpacks a syringe from the kit he carries.
DETECTIVE HUGO: This won't take a moment. Detective Hugo swabs Eugene's inner arm. All eyes are trained on the tip of the needle as it punctures the vein.
EUGENE: ( reassuring to Irene, referring to the blood flowing into the syringe ) It's okay. Maybe they can find out what I've got.
INVESTIGATOR: Mind if I take a leak?
EUGENE: As long as you don't do it in my closet. Over there.
INVESTIGATOR: ( to Eugene, referring to ther mini-vac ) May I?
EUGENE: Clean the whole house if you want.
IRENE: ( taking Eugene's lead ) Actually, the kitchen needs doing.
DETECTIVE: ( urgent, to Investigator ) Come quickly. We have him.
JEROME: ( numb ) How are you, Jerome?
EUGENE: Not bad, Jerome.
JEROME: How the hell did you get here.
EUGENE: ( deadpan ) I could always walk. I've been faking it. ( calling after her )
JEROME: ( calling after her )
INVESTIGATOR: ( gazing at the Director, struggling to come to grips with the turn of events ) This can't be him.
DETECTIVE HUGO: ( intrigued ) We found his spit in the dead director's eye. He's signed a confessionsupplied us with the suit he wore on the night. What more do you ( a trace of desperation, grasping at straws ) Luca could still be an accomplice.
INVESTIGATOR: ( a trace of desperation, grasping at straws ) Luca could still be an accomplice.
MISSION COMMANDER: Finally, I'd like to welcome Navigator Morrow on his debut missionif we get lost out there, nobody has a map of the heavens in his head like Jerome looks up bashfully.
MISSION COMMANDER: ( adopting a more serious tone ) I'm gratified that there is no longer a cloud hanging over tomorrow's launch. Now we can put this unpleasantness behind us and concentrate on the task at hand. I don't have to tell you how important this mission isthe Belt could hold the key to the origin of life - why we are what we are. ( injecting a note of levity ) I know many of you have been asking that question about me for long enough. ( referring to a projected photograph of a misshapen asteroid behind his head ) Gasprahow could something so ugly hold so many beautiful secrets?
MISSION COMMANDER: Enjoy your final evening with your families. We'll all be a year older when they see us next. And don't be late tomorrow. You don't want to miss this. We focus on Jerome. He appears to have his head in the heavens INT. CRIME LAB. NIGHT. The tormented INVESTIGATOR lies on the floor of his lab, staring at the ceiling. he winces in discomfort. He is lying on something. He rolls over and retrieves the irritation from his pocket. It is the "ESC" computer key he prized from Jerome's He gazes at the key for a moment and then gets to his feet. He resurrects an old fingerprint kit from a cupboard. Carefully removing the key from the specimen bag - marked, "MORROW, Jerome" - he begins to dust it for a fingerprint. He places the key under a camera. The enlarged print appears on the lefthand side of his computer screen. The word "MATCH" blinks onto the screen. However the face that appears from the computer's databank is not that of "MORROW, Jerome" but "LUCA, Vincent". The Investigator regards the photograph in DETECTIVE HUGO casually enters the lab, something odd in his nonchalant demeanor.
INVESTIGATOR: ( excited ) Hugo! I've found him!
HUGO: I've found him too.
INVESTIGATOR: ( not listening, referring to his discovery ) A fingerprint. There's something to be said for nostalgia. ( realizing what Hugo has said ) What did you find?
DETECTIVE HUGO: It's not
INVESTIGATOR: ( interest piqued ) Where did you get this? ( referring to the tissue ) But this man does share some common characteristics with your suspect. Not so many but enough. It appears the eyelash has a brotherof a kind.
DETECTIVE HUGO: ( referring to the tissue ) But this man does share some common characteristics with your suspect. Not so many but enough. It appears the eyelash has a brotherof a kind.
CAESAR: So you've finally seen sense and come back to your old job, Vincent.
JEROME: Not yet, I'm afraid.
CAESAR: No? What's keeping you?
JEROME: I guess I'm a slow learner.
CAESAR: I guess so. Well, while you're up there, maybe you could tidy the place up a bit.
JEROME: I'll see what I can do. The two men embrace, Caesar breaking off before Jerome.
CAESAR: And don't go getting everybody lost out there. You'll give us a bad name. You won't have me to keep an eye on you, you know.
JEROME: ( glancing to Caesar's locker ) By the way, I left some trash in your locker.
CAESAR: ( happy to oblige ) I'll take care of it.
INVESTIGATOR: Jerome is stopped in his tracks by the sound of his given name and the voice that calls it. He makes no further attempt to flee but turns to face his pursuer. The Investigator steps out of the shadows.
INVESTIGATOR: Vincent, what are you running from?
JEROME: ( disturbingly calm ) From Vincent.
INVESTIGATOR: Has it been so long, you don't remember who I am?
JEROME: ( nodding to the Investigator's badge ) Maybe it's you who's forgotten. ( meeting his gaze ) What are you doing here, Anton?
ANTON: I could ask I have a right to be here, you don't. Jerome smiles at him condescendingly.
JEROME: You almost sound like you believe that.
ANTON: ( ignoring the remark, extending his hand ) Come with me now, Vincent. You've gone as far as you can go.
JEROME: ( refusing Anton's hand, glancing to the telescope above them ) There are a few million miles to go yet.
ANTON: ( adamant ) It's over.
JEROME: ( shaking his head ) Is that the only way you can succeed, Anton, to see me fail?
ANTON: It's for the best.
JEROME: ( increasingly angered ) God, even you want to tell me what I can't do. In case you hadn't noticed, Anton, I don't need rescuing. But you did, once.
JEROME: ( goading ) Well? You have all the answers. How is that ( resolute ) You didn't beat me that day. I beat myself.
ANTON: ( resolute ) You didn't beat me that day. I beat myself.
JEROME: Who are you trying to convince?
ANTON: ( angry ) I will prove it to you. Come swim with me now, Vincent. Nowtonight.
IRENE: No reply. Irene hesitantly ventures further, drawn to the spiral staircase. She tentatively makes her way down the stairs and into Eugene's dimly lit condominium. With wonder and reverence, she examines the instruments and samples laid out on Eugene's work benches. She opens the refrigerator in the bathroom and inspects the samples and sachets. Finally she regards the empty incinerator.
EUGENE: ( referring to the incinerator ) That's where we get rid of the traces of him although we never truly succeeded.
IRENE: I've been looking for him. Do you know where he is?
EUGENE: ( unconcerned ) He's probably leaving some more of me around the place before he goes.
EUGENE: Don't be deceived, Irene. These are just the clothes. He has to wear them. Something I could never do.
IRENE: What's wrong with him?
EUGENE: ( sympathetic smile ) You have more in common than you know.
EUGENE: But they say overdue. I have my doubts. For all my gifts, they could never engineer me a heart like Vincent's. Irene turns back to the incinerator, lost in though.
ANTON: ( attempting to conceal his distress ) How are you doing this, Vincent? How have you done any of this?
JEROME: Now is your chance to find out. Jerome swims away a second time. Anton is forced to follow once again. Angry now, gritting his teeth, Anton calls upon the same determination we have witnessed during his constant swimming in the pool. He puts on a spurt, slowly reeling in Jerome. Anton gradually draws alongside Jerome, certain that this effort will demoralize his older brother. But Jerome has been foxing - waiting for him to catch up. Jerome smiles at Anton. With almost a trace of sympathy, he forges ahead again. Anton is forced to go with him. They swim again for a long distance. It is Anton who gradually becomes demoralized - his strokes weaken, his will draining away. Anton pulls up, exhausted and fearful. Jerome also pulls up. However his face displays none of Anton's anxiety. They tread water several yards apart. The ocean is choppier now. The view of the lights on the shore is obscured by the peaks of the waves.
ANTON: ( panic starting to show ) Vincent, where's the shore? We're too far out. We have to go back!
JEROME: ( calling back ) Too late for that. We're closer to the other side.
ANTON: Do you want to drown us both? How are we going to get back?! Jerome merely smiles back at his younger brother, a disturbingly serene smile.
JEROME: ( eerily calm ) You wanted to know how I did it. That's how I did it, Anton. I never saved anything for the swim back.
JEROME: ( wry smile, offering the hair to Irene ) Here, take it.
JEROME: ( echoing Irene's words from their first encounter ) If you're still interested, let me know.
IRENE: ( never taking her eyes from him, echoing Jerome's words from their first encounter ) Sorry, the wind caught it.
JEROME: ( awakening ) A year is a long time.
IRENE: Not so longjust once around the sun. Jerome smiles. For once Irene seems to be looking forward to the trip. She exits the room.
EUGENE: I have your samples ready.
JEROME: ( confused ) Have you forgotten? I don't need any samples where I'm going.
EUGENE: ( meeting Jerome's gaze ) No, but you might need them when you get back.
EUGENE: Everything you need to last you two lifetimes. EUGENE points out an extra specimen of semen in the first There's an extra specimen. I wish I could give it to her myself. But then, you always were better at being me. Eugene leads the way out of the refrigerator room.
EUGENE: There's an extra specimen. I wish I could give it to her myself. But then, you always were better at being me. Eugene leads the way out of the refrigerator room.
JEROME: ( struggling to come to terms with the discovery ) Why have you done this?
EUGENE: ( as he seals the mirrored door ) In case you get back before I do.
JEROME: Where are you going?
EUGENE: ( glancing to the suitcases ) I'm travelling too.
JEROME: Thank you.
EUGENE: I got the better end of the deal. I just lent you my bodyyou lent me your dream. Jerome smiles and hugs Eugene a final time. Eugene stuffs an envelope into Jerome's pocket.
EUGENE: ( referring to the note, glancing heavenwards ) Not until you're upstairs.
JEROME: ( as he takes the plastic cup from Lamar ) What's this, Lamar?
LAMAR: New policy. From behind, we see Jerome unzip his fly. However for once Jerome does not urinate on cue - unused to operating his own equipment in front of the physician.
LAMAR: ( intrigued by the out-of-character discharge ) Flight got you nervous?
JEROME: There's a problem, Lamar.
LAMAR: ( apparently not listening ) Did I ever tell you about my son, Jerome? He's a big fan of yours. He wants to apply here.
JEROME: ( as he urinates ) Just remember, Lamar, I could have gone up and back and nobody would have been the wiser
LAMAR: ( cutting him off ) Unfortunately my son's not all that they promised. But then, who know what he could do.
LAMAR: For future reference righthanded men don't hold it with their left. It's just one of those things. Never lookig at the screen, Lamar presses a button marked,
LAMAR: ( knowing smile ) Have a safe trip, Vincent.
A STARSCAPE: As we pan across the constellations, a title is superimposed upon the starscape: The first title is replaced in the heavens by a second title. A succession of portraits and photographs of RENOWNED and HISTORIC FIGURES fades in and out of the constellations - the accompanying titles list their affliction rather than their
HOMER: NAPOLEON BONAPARTE ( Lou Gerhig's Disease )
NAPOLEON BONAPARTE: LOU GERHIG ( Lou Gerhig's Disease )
COLETTE: LOU GERHIG ( Lou Gerhig's Disease )
LOU GERHIG: ( Lou Gerhig's Disease )
RITA HAYWORTH: HELEN KELLER STEPHEN HAWKING JACKIE JOYNER-KERSEE CHARLES DARWIN
HELEN KELLER: STEPHEN HAWKING JACKIE JOYNER-KERSEE CHARLES DARWIN
STEPHEN HAWKING: JACKIE JOYNER-KERSEE
CHARLES DARWIN: The face of Charles Darwin fades off and another title appears out of the stars. The title fades off and is replaced by one final title in the night sky.
