SHOOTING DRAFT: INT. TRIBECA LOFT - DAY The CAMERA TRACKS slowly through clouds of moving dust. Shafts of muted light pierce the dense atmosphere. An eerie netherworld envelops us. Strange ghostly forms appear and disappear in the distance. They seem like apparitions. Broken timbers and dangling cables emerge from the smoky light. We see hints of a huge demolished space. An old white plaster wall FILLS THE SCREEN. Momentary blips of light flash across it. SOUNDS of street traffic are heard dimly in the distance. With startling impact, the SOUND of a sledgehammer explodes out of nowhere. The wall shudders. HAMMER BLOWS assault the audience. They are loud and jarring. The wall buckles. Chunks of plaster CRASH to the floor. The air fills with new swirls of white dust. The SLEDGEHAMMER smashes INTO VIEW. Beams of sunlight cut through the cracks, piercing the atmosphere like searchlights in a fog. A huge section of wall falls toward camera as more plaster billows into the air. We hear voices talking.
SAM: I can't breathe.
MOLLY: Use your mask, dummy.
SAM: ( singing ) "Volga boat., man." Whoomph!
ANGLE: The CAMERA MOVES IN and for the first time we see them. MOLLY JENSEN, in her late 20's, has a bandanna around her hair and a workman's mask over her nose, but we can tell from her eyes and cheekbones that she is beautiful. SAM WHEAT, in his late 30's, is also hidden behind a mask, but he has a strong forehead and handsome features. Sweat is dripping down his brow, leaving streaks in the dust. CARL BRUNER, early 30's, removes his mask revealing a good looking young man with a fashionable two-day stubble. Both men have their shirts off.
ANGLE: BLACKNESS AND A LOUD THUD. Suddenly a shaft of light penetrates the darkness. Another thud and more light. We see a hole. The hook of a crowbar enters it, grappling with something around the edges. Then, with a tug and a loud yank, a huge section of tin ceiling crashes to the floor. Huge clouds of dust fly into the air. Molly looks up, astonished.
MOLLY: Sam, look, there's a whole eight feet up there.
SAM: And about eighty years of dust.
MOLLY: We have all this height, Sam. We could add a second floor and put our bedroom upstairs. That would leave all this space.
SAM: ( eyeing her curiously ) For what?
MOLLY: For space. Just space.
SAM: Be great for bumper cars.
CARL: Sam, this may be none of my business, but I'm concerned you're doing too much coke.
MOLLY: Hey, Sam, turn around.
CARL: ( offering his body ) How 'bout me?
CARL: I'll never wash again.
ANGLE: Sam, Molly, and Carl are holding their sledgehammers. Molly begins to count.
MOLLY: All together now. One,
SAM: Hey, look what I found. There's a penny inside. For luck in our new loft. It's a good omen.
MOLLY: ( shaking her head, disagreeing ) You're the good omen.
MOLLY: It's gorgeous.
CARL: You guys lucked out. Hell, I bet you could sell it tomorrow and double your investment.
MOLLY: Sell it? Carl, we just bought it.
CARL: What I wouldn't do for a place like It's gonna be great.
SAM: It's gonna be great.
OMITTED: EXT. MARKET SECURITY BANK & TRUST - HEADQUARTERS - DAY It is morning rush hour. Sam and Carl, both wearing suits and ties, exit the Wall Street subway station and approach the Headquarters of Market Security Bank & Trust.
CARL: Oh, by the way, Sam, I had to move your 3:00 with Bob Kahan to 4:00 so you could squeeze in Gary Alan. He called yesterday and said he has to see you today about the Danway stuff. Three o'clock was the only time he could make it. Also, the board meeting in L.A. has been confirmed for the 12th. I got you on a 9:00 a.m. flight.
CARL: ( continuing ) Hey, Sam, relax. This isn't brain surgery you're going into.
SAM: I hate pitching to these Japanese guys. They make me nervous. I mean, what am I supposed to say, "Who do you think'll win that big Sumo Sam, you'll be fine. You're great with people.
CARL: Sam, you'll be fine. You're great with people.
CARL: ( continuing ) Hey, nice. I like those.
SAM: Carl smiles and then turns to admire a car going by.
CARL: Jesus, look at that, a Testerossa. That's the car I'm gonna drive when I'm making two hundred grand.
SAM: Better pay off your Mustang first.
SAM: So Carl, what did the doctor say?
CARL: He said it was contagious. Very contagious. I shouldn't be going into work today. But what could I do?
SAM: And what about the rash?
CARL: Not good. It's spreading everywhere.
SAM: On your genitals again?
CARL: Everywhere. He said be sure not to touch anyone.
ROSE: Morning, Mr. Wheat.
SAM: Morning Rose. Listen, when the Kobiashi people arrive, have Elenore take them right to the.
ROSE: They're already here.
SAM: They're early!
ROSE: I know. And Andy Dillon called. He said they need $900,000 transferred to Albany by noon.
SAM: Noon? Damn!
CARL: Hold on.
SAM: Listen, Dillon needs $900,000 in Albany by noon. Can you transfer it to his payroll account?
CARL: Sure. Just let me have your MAC code. Discretion, huh?
SAM: Discretion, huh?
CARL: You bet. I'll do it right away.
SAM: ( in Japanese ) Good morning, Gentlemen. On behalf of Market Security Bank & Trust, I welcome you to our city.
MEN: They look to Sam, expecting more. Uncomfortable, he clears his throat.
SAM: I'm afraid that's the only Japanese I know. But I realize it's not our language fluency, or lack of it, that brings you to Market Security. Rather, I'm sure, it is our banking expertise, our ability to represent and anticipate all of your banking needs. As you know, we are not the largest banking establishment in New But, with combined assets of over 200 billion dollars, we have a firm commitment to the international
SAM: Excuse me.
MOLLY: dressed in a long, clay covered smock. She is in a potters studio. SEVERAL OTHER POTTERS are in the background working at their wheels. A five-foot high ceramic vase stands beside Molly. It is still wet. She toys with it as she speaks into the phone.
MOLLY: A man and a woman are lying in bed when the woman's husband suddenly comes home. Frightened, she tells the man he has to leave instantly through the window. He has no time to dress.
SAM: straight-faced, listening and trying to look as if it is
SAM: Uh hmm.
SAM: MOLLY ( V.O. )
SAM: Well, that's just fine.
SAM: Thank you. I'll remember that.
MOLLY: Where you guys from, the New York City Ballet? Saved your life.
SAM: Saved your life.
MOLLY: You bastard. Don't do that to me. You scared me half to death.
SAM: Better than seeing this gorgeous body splattered all over the street. Here, look out.
MOLLY: Carl? Did you invite him?
SAM: ( under his breath ) I couldn't keep him away.
CARL: Hi, Moll. Hi, Sam. So, how's it goin?
MOLLY: In the bedroom.
CARL: Wow! The place looks great. Really You like it, huh?
MOLLY: You like it, huh?
CARL: "Like" is hardly the word. I never imagined it would be this beautiful. This is incredible.
MOLLY: Sam, you kept that chair?
SAM: What do you mean? It's comfortable. For T.V. I love that chair.
MOLLY: But it doesn't go with anything.
SAM: It goes with me.
MOLLY: It's okay, I'll paint it.
SAM: It was the middle of December. I was sitting in my old office, the one Charlie's in. Suddenly, I heard this woman screaming. I thought someone'd been shot or something.
MOLLY: They took away my MasterCard. It was Christmas, for godssake.
SAM: She was four thousand dollars over her limit.
MOLLY: It wasn't four thousand. And I'd already sent in the payment! You're the ones that lost it.
SAM: She's still angry.
MOLLY: No I'm not.
SAM: Get outta here, Frank! You should have seen her. All pink and flushed. Her skin was gorgeous, like a rose. And she's screaming, demanding to see the president. So Wilton brought her to me.
CARL: You? You weren't even a VP yet.
SAM: She didn't know that.
MOLLY: Can you believe it? And the next thing I know, he's telling me his life story. I couldn't believe it. Everything. About his divorce, how he'd just arrived in New York, how he didn't know any women. And all with this Montana accent.
SAM: What's a Montana accent?
MOLLY: The one you always slip into it when you get nervous. "Yes, Ma'am. Thank you, Ma'am. Can I fondle your breasts, I wasn't nervous.
SAM: ( laughing ) I wasn't nervous.
MOLLY: Admit it. You liked me. You were I thought you were cute.
SAM: ( matter of factly ) I thought you were cute.
MOLLY: ( looking at Carl ) Do you believe this? I should have been Picasso's mistress. I should have been living in Barcelona or Paris. But no, I'm moving in with a New York banker who thinks I'm cute.
OMITTED: INT. MOLLY'S STUDIO - NIGHT Molly, dressed only in a T-shirt, is sitting at her potters wheel throwing a series of pots. Sam enters the studio. He is barefoot, shirtless, wearing jeans.
SAM: What are you doing?
MOLLY: I felt inspired.
SAM: At 2:00 am?
SAM: ( continuing ) You notice Carl's eyes today? They were all over you.
MOLLY: What? Are you jealous? Sam, let me tell you something. He's not even looking at me. It's you he idolizes. He doesn't see me at all. Anyway, he's not my type.
MOLLY: ( continuing ) What are you doing?
SAM: I feel inspired.
SAM'S FINGER: as it presses two buttons on his jukebox. We watch as the mechanical arm selects a record and slowly, sensuously, lowers it to the turntable. The arm hovers over the record and then descends. It begins to play. The song is "Unchained Melody" by the Righteous Brothers.
JUKEBOX: The song ends. The jukebox arm retracts and gently slides the record back into its slot.
OMITTED: BEDROOM - NIGHT Sam and Molly are lying together silently. Molly gazes at
MOLLY: What's the matter?
SAM: The matter?
MOLLY: I can tell.
SAM: Nothing. really.
MOLLY: You're worried, aren't you? About moving in together?
SAM: No. Not really.
MOLLY: Then what? The promotion?
SAM: I don't know. A lot of things. I just don't want the bubble to burst. Whenever something good happens to me I'm just afraid I'm going to lose
MOLLY: You know what?
SAM: I love you. I really love you.
MOLLY: I love you. I really love you.
SAM: Suddenly the T.V. blares into the room. Sam jumps up, grabbing the remote control unit from under his buttocks. Molly laughs as he turns the SOUND DOWN. The news is on and they are showing the remains of an airline disaster. Sam stares at the tube.
SAM: Oh Jesus. Another one.
MOLLY: Don't watch that stuff.
CORRESPONDENT: .It is estimated that 34 people died in the crash, the second in less than two weeks.
SAM: I should cancel my L.A. trip. These things always happen in threes.
MOLLY: Threes? Sam, get serious. Besides, you lead a charmed life.
SAM: Yeah. So did they.
SAM: ( continuing ) Amazing, huh? ( he snaps his fingers ) Just like that. Blackout.
OMITTED: INT. SAM'S OFFICE - DAY Sam is sitting at his computer. His address book with his access codes is sitting open beside him. He seems perplexed by something happening on the screen. After pushing a series of buttons and getting the same response, he whacks the computer on the side. Carl, walking in the door, sees him. Sam looks up sheepishly.
SAM: A glitch. What's up?
CARL: The Mark Greenberg and Larry White accounts. I can't get in. Your MAC code doesn't work.
SAM: I changed it.
CARL: Why? What's up?
SAM: Nothing. I just want to nose around a bit. Can you keep your mouth Yeah, sure. Tell me, what's going I think I've stumbled onto something. There's too much money in these Too much money. That's ridiculous. How could there be too much money?
CARL: Yeah, sure. Tell me, what's going I think I've stumbled onto something. There's too much money in these Too much money. That's ridiculous. How could there be too much money?
SAM: I think I've stumbled onto something. There's too much money in these Too much money. That's ridiculous. How could there be too much money?
CARL: Too much money. That's ridiculous. How could there be too much money?
SAM: That's what I keep asking myself.
CARL: It must be the computer.
SAM: I've been checking.
CARL: Yeah, Mr. Fixit. Come on, move over. Let me see what I can do.
SAM: Not yet. I'm gonna dig around a bit.
CARL: Okay, okay. Just call me when you're ready for help. So, what are you and Moll doing We're going to the theatre. She wants to see "Macbeth" at the Spring Street
SAM: We're going to the theatre. She wants to see "Macbeth" at the Spring Street
ANGLE STAGE: A scene from "Macbeth". Sam begins to snore. Molly grabs his nose. He jerks awake. Molly grins.
SAM: I loved it.
MOLLY: I could tell.
MOLLY: ( continuing ) Did I tell you what Marcia said?
SAM: Six times.
MOLLY: Six? No I didn't. Sam, don't be so blasé. I'll have two major pieces in the show. The New York Times reviews her gallery all the time. This could be huge.
SAM: Molly, the "New York Times" is some frustrated little critic with pimples on his ass who flunked out of art school. Who cares what The New York Times thinks?
MOLLY: Eight million readers, that's who.
SAM: Your work's beautiful. That's a fact, Moll. It doesn't matter what anyone
MOLLY: ( continuing ) I want to marry you, Sam.
SAM: ( taken aback ) I've been thinking about it for days. More than thinking. I want to do it. I want to jump in whole hog. ( she pauses ) What is that look for?
MOLLY: I've been thinking about it for days. More than thinking. I want to do it. I want to jump in whole hog. What is that look for?
SAM: ( staring at her ) It's just been so long since. I mean, you never wanted to talk about
MOLLY: Do you love me, Sam?
SAM: What do you think, Moll?
MOLLY: How come you never say it?
SAM: What are you talking about?
MOLLY: You say "ditto". It's not the same.
SAM: People say "I love you" all the time. It doesn't mean anything.
MOLLY: Sometimes you need to hear it.
MOLLY: What should we do?
SAM: Let me handle this.
WILLIE: Your wallet!
MOLLY: Give it to him!
SAM: Take the money. Just leave the wallet and my.
MOLLY: Sam, No!
MOLLY: The two men run down the dark street, but the Mugger is already a full block ahead and disappears into the shadows. Sam gives up. Slowly he turns and begins walking back toward We can see Molly dimly at the end of the block as Sam approaches. She is screaming for help. Frightened, Sam calls She doesn't answer. Sam tenses and starts running toward her. He is just three feet away when suddenly he stops. An expression of pure terror overwhelms his face.
SAM: She doesn't answer. Sam tenses and starts running toward her. He is just three feet away when suddenly he stops. An expression of pure terror overwhelms his face.
SAM: He jumps down toward his body and reaches out to grab hold of his motionless form. His hands make a strange SOUND as they pass right though it. It is terrifying. Sam jumps up, crazed, frenzied, and begins circling Molly. It is as though he is trying to undo what has been done.
SAM: ( continuing ) This isn't happening. It's not
SAM: ( continuing ) Help me!
SAM: Do it! Do it!
SAM: Molly? Molly!
MOLLY: Sam? What's the matter? Is something What is it, honey?
SAM: Sam is so relieved to hear her voice that he can hardly Molly, groggy, tries to sit up. Sam reaches out for her. As she turns around, we see A SKELETEL VERSION OF HER HEAD staring at the camera. It speaks.
MOLLY: What is it, honey?
MOLLY: ( mocking him ) What is it, honey?
SAM: What's happening to me?!
ANGLE: Suddenly, a brilliant white light shoots into the room as a host of glowing forms, radiating an intense inner light, float before us. A blinding tunnel spirals in an infinite vortex behind them. Sam is awed and confused. We sense that the light is enchanting him. The entire room begins to disappear in the light. Molly screams.
MOLLY: Don't leave me. I need you, Sam.
ANGLE: Sam turns and sees Molly, only she is not in the bed. She is back on the street. To his amazement, he is on the street, too, still bathed in the soothing light. Frightened, he calls out to her.
SAM: She does not hear him. He calls again.
SAM: ( continuing )
OMITTED: EXT. NEW YORK STREETS - NIGHT Swirls of light speed toward the ambulance as car headlights and streetlamps merge in a wild dizzying rush. The SIREN wails into the night.
SAM: Don't stop! I'm not dead!
MAN: So, what happened to you?
SAM: You're new, huh? I can tell.
MAN: You're new, huh? I can tell.
SAM: Are you talking to me?
MAN: Relax. It ain't like before, you know. It's a whole new ball-a-wax.
SAM: Who are you?
MAN: I'm waiting for my wife. She's in 4C. Cardiac wing. She's fighting it.
MAN: ( continuing ) Shot, huh? That'll do it every time. Poor bastard. Well, get used to it. You could be here a long time. ( leaning in close ) I'll tell you a secret. Doors ain't as bad as you think. Zip zap. They ain't nothin' at all. You'll see. You'll catch on.
MAN: ( continuing ) He ain't gonna make it. I've seen it a million times. He's a goner. See? Here they come. Lucky bastard. Could have been the other ones. You never
ANGLE: Before Sam can understand what is happening the entire room fills with a strange preternatural light. Suddenly he looks up and freezes. The amorphous forms he saw right after he died are floating down through the ceiling and reaching for the body on the operating table. They are emitting a powerful light.
DOCTOR: Hurry, we're losing him.
MAN: What'd I tell you? Bingo!
DOCTOR: He's gone.
ANGLE: The light in the room grows dull instantly. Nurses cover the dead man with a dark sheet as the doctors step away. Sam turns to the Old Man.
SAM: Who are you? What's happening.?
SAM: ( continuing )
SAM: Oh God, help me.
MINISTER: As we say farewell to our friend Sam Wheat, we are reminded of his kindness, his generosity, his buoyancy of spirit.
MINISTER: ( continuing ) All that we treasure, our friends, our loved ones, our body, our mind, are but on loan to us. We must surrender them all. We are all travelers on the same road which leads to the same end.
MINISTER: As our loved one enters eternal life, let us remember that love, too, is eternal, that although we will miss him, our love will light the void and dispel the darkness.
SAM: She does not respond. RUTH, her sister, leans over to her. Tears form in Molly's eyes. A hand reaches out to give her a tissue. Molly looks up. It is Carl. She gives him her hand. He squeezes it with affection.
MINISTER: .and into Your hands we commend his spirit. May he rest in peace. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen.
VOICES: What time you going back to work?. What's the buzz on Digital? It's sad. He was so young. How's your new Honda?. Going away this weekend?
ANGLE: Raw clay on a potter's wheel spins hypnotically, sensuously. Molly's wet hands press in, shaping it, molding it. A bowl begins to appear. The camera pulls back and reveals Sam. He is sitting on the floor behind her, knees pressed to his chest, rocking aimlessly. Molly looks away from the bowl she is forming. It distorts and bends. Angry, she digs her finger into it. The bowl disintegrates. Tears form in her eyes. Frank jumps up on the bench beside her. Molly stares sadly around the room. Quietly, she begins talking to herself, to the air.
MOLLY: Oh God, Sam.
MOLLY: ( continuing ) I picked up your shirts this morning. I don't know why. Mr. Reynolds said to tell you hello. I broke into tears. It's so hard.
MOLLY: ( continuing ) I think about you every minute. It's like you're still here, like I can feel you, Sam.
SAM: I am here, Moll. I am.
ANGLE: Suddenly, as if hearing Sam's voice, the cat begins to hiss. Molly spins around. The cat scans the room. Unexpectedly, Sam's and the cat's eyes meet. With a wild SCREECH, the cat jumps from the bench and takes off running. Sam recoils. Molly stands up.
MOLLY: Frank, what's wrong? Frank?
MOLLY: ( continuing; whispering )
SAM: Wait, Moll. Not that one. That's my
SAM: ( continuing ) Molly, don't.
SAM: ( continuing ) Say something. Help her, Carl.
CARL: It's hard. It's very hard.
SAM: ( sarcastic ) Oh good. That's really good.
OMITTED: INT. KITCHEN - DAY Molly and Carl are standing over the kitchen table folding piles of Sam's clothes and placing them into boxes. As Molly lifts one of Sam's jackets, something falls from a side pocket. It is his small black leather address book. Sam stares at it with recognition. Carl sees the book fall and stoops to pick it up but Molly gets it first.
MOLLY: Sam's address book.
CARL: Dave Brubeck. Newport '86. Should I toss 'em?
MOLLY: Molly, we hated that concert.
SAM: Molly, we hated that concert.
CARL: Oh, you want to save those?
SAM: Rolaids? What are you doin' Moll?
MOLLY: I miss him, Carl.
CARL: We all do.
ANGLE: Carl lifting a pile of boxes and carrying them to the door. Suddenly Molly yells out.
MOLLY: Wait. Wait. Not that one.
CARL: Oh, shit. I'm sorry. I don't know how that got in there.
CARL: ( continuing ) Hey, Moll. Why don't you come? It's like summer outside.
MOLLY: Just for a stroll. It'd be good to get out.
CARL: Just for a stroll. It'd be good to get out.
MOLLY: I can't do it Carl.
CARL: Molly. you're not the one who died!
MOLLY: Okay. Just a short walk.
CARL: Thata girl.
SAM: Hey, Molly! Wait!
ANGLE: The door slams shut. Sam is locked inside. Frightened and desperate, he rushes for the door knob. His hand sinks through it. There is a strange sound, like ELECTRICAL STATIC, as it penetrates the metal and wood. Frightened, he yanks it back. Sam circles the space several times and then returns to the door. Clenching his teeth, he reaches out again. As his hand pushes up against it, we sense that he experiences a subtle resistance. The hairs on the back of his hand vibrate as his ghostly form presses into it. We sense Sam's fear as his entire arm DISAPPEARS FROM VIEW. The grating ELECTRICAL SOUND shudders up his spine. The sight of his amputated limb is unsettling but Sam does not pull back. Slowly he edges in and presses his face into the molecules of the wood.
SAM: pulling back from the door. He is trembling.
SAM: "Singing bye bye, Miss American Pie. Drove my Chevy to the levy, but the levy was dry. Them good ol' boys were drinkin' whiskey and rye, and singing this'll be the day that I."
ANGLE: Sam goes wild. He shoots at the man with all his might, attacking him unceasingly, but with no effect. His hands and feet pass right through him.
SAM: You motherfucking bastard! What the hell are you doing here? What are you doing?
ANGLE: Entering the bedroom, the Mugger goes to the dresser and quickly examines the drawers. He is very neat, careful to leave no sign that he was there. He seems to be looking for something but cannot find it.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Suddenly we hear a KEY TURNING in the front door. The Mugger seems startled. He dashes from the bedroom and hides quickly behind one of the large sculptures. We hear the door OPEN. Molly is standing there. Sam goes crazy.
SAM: Molly, no! Get out!
MOLLY: Frank, what's wrong?
ANGLE: on Sam's head sticking outside of the car as the subway tunnel rushes past him. There is a panicked look on his face. The look intensifies as he turns and sees another train barreling down on him.
ANGLE: on Sam's body inside the car still struggling with the Ghost as the other train shoots by the window. With a huge gasp, Sam shoots back into the car, and wrests himself free of the Ghost's hold. The Ghost flies after him, screeching. Sam surges through the door at the end of the train and finds himself on the bridge between the subway cars. The subway Ghost stares at him through the window with a wild, insane
GHOST: Stay off! This is mine!
OMITTED: SAM'S P.O.V. Sam sees the Mugger exiting the train and frantically rushes after him.
SAM: Willie dials the phone. Someone comes on the line.
WILLIE: She came home. I couldn't get it. Give me a couple of days. I'll go
SAM: Get what? Who the hell are you? What were you doing at Molly's? What the hell's going on?
SAM: ( continuing ) Stay away from her!
WOMAN'S VOICE: Sorry 'bout that.
PANNING SHOT: to a pair of loudspeakers in a storefront window. The MUSIC blares out once more and SOUNDS of gospel fill the street. Sam looks up. He is back in front of the storefront church with the sign for SISTER ODA MAE BROWN, MEDIUM, SPIRIT READER, ADVISOR, hanging overhead. Below it is another sign. "Contact the dearly departed. $20.00". Sam stares at the sign with curiosity. The MUSIC is compelling. After a moment's hesitation, he goes in the open INT. STOREFRONT - DAY A record player is sitting near the storefront window, a makeshift microphone placed in front of it. Several rows of folding chairs face a raised platform with nothing on it. A number of people are sitting there, mostly women. One gets the sense that this is a cross between a waiting room and a meeting hall. A black WOMAN steps up on the platform and calls out:
WOMAN: Rosa Santiago.
WOMAN: Please be seated.
CLARA: My sister will be with us soon.
LOUISE: Sister Oda Mae. Grant us the gift of your all-seeing presence. Appear for us now.
ODA MAE: Mrs. Santiago.
MRS. SANTIAGO: Buenos dias.
ODA MAE: I understand you are hoping to contact your husband.
MRS. SANTIAGO: Si. Si.
ODA MAE: Well, I believe he's gonna be with us today.
MRS. SANTIAGO: Oh, tsank you, tsank you.
ODA MAE: But there's no telling about the other world. You gotta cast out all doubt. You gotta believe. Do you Si. Si. I believe. I believe.
MRS. SANTIAGO: ( nodding her head vigorously ) Si. Si. I believe. I believe.
ODA MAE: And remember, we don't make no promises. I can phone up there till I'm blue in the face, .but it don't necessarily mean he's gonna be home. Them folks go shopping, they play bingo. It's just like here. You can't always get 'em.
SAM: Sure lady!
ODA MAE: Okay, let's get ready then.
ODA MAE: We got a problem here. I don't think he's in. Wait. I feel something. Did he know someone who's passed over, someone named Anna. Mary. Consuela. Maria?
MRS. SANTIAGO: Si, si! His mama. She's Maria.
ODA MAE: Ah! I knew it. He's with his mama.
SAM: ( sarcastic ) Oh my God.
ODA MAE: I'm afraid this is gonna be too hard. Now I got two souls I gotta contact. I don't know about that. It's difficult, you know. The pain. The I pay more. How much? How much?
MRS. SANTIAGO: I pay more. How much? How much?
ODA MAE: Twenty dollars.
SAM: Way to go. Milk her for every penny.
ODA MAE: Welcome, Rosa Santiago. You are fortunate today. The channel is clear. Many spirits are gathering.
SAM: ( scanning the room ) Yeah? Where?
MRS. SANTIAGO: My husband?
ODA MAE: ( a bit uneasy ) I can feel his vibration. Yes, yes, he is drawing toward us now. I can see him coming.
MRS. SANTIAGO: Julio! Julio! How is he? How does he Oh, he is a very handsome man.
ODA MAE: Oh, he is a very handsome man.
MRS. SANTIAGO: ( surprised ) In our Father's Kingdom we are all ( understanding )
ODA MAE: In our Father's Kingdom we are all
MRS. SANTIAGO: ( understanding )
ODA MAE: He is standing before me. He is wearing a black suit.
MRS. SANTIAGO: A black suit? Oh yes, yes. He was buried in that.
SAM: What a crock of shit!
ODA MAE: Who's there?
ODA MAE: ( continuing ) Where are you?
SAM: ( looking around ) Julio! Julio!
MRS. SANTIAGO: Julio! Julio!
SAM: What's going on?
ODA MAE: Get out of here! Leave me alone!
SAM: Who are you talking to?
ODA MAE: Keep him away!
SAM: Are you talking to me?
ODA MAE: Do something. Help me.
SAM: I don't believe this. Hey you. My name is Sam Wheat. Can you hear me? Sam Wheat!
ODA MAE: Stop it!
SAM: Say my name! Sam Wheat! Say it!
CLARA: Talk to me, Oda Mae. Say something.
ODA MAE: Sam Wheat!
SAM: Oda Mae runs into the closet. It has a false panel leading to a hidden chamber on the left side and she barricades herself inside it. Clara and Louise stand outside pulling on the handle. They seem frightened.
CLARA: Oda Mae runs into the closet. It has a false panel leading to a hidden chamber on the left side and she barricades herself inside it. Clara and Louise stand outside pulling on the handle. They seem frightened.
ODA MAE: Lord, I swear, no more cheatin'. I promise, Lord. I don't want to go to hell. I'll do anything. Gimme a penance. Just make him go away.
SAM: Go away. Hell no. I'm stayin' right
OMITTED: INT. ODA MAE'S LIVINGROOM - DAY Beads of sweat collect on Oda Mae's brow and cheeks. She seems feverish. Clara and Louise are sitting beside her with damp towels nervously soaking up the perspiration. Oda Mae appears to be talking to herself until we PULL BACK and reveal Sam nearby.
ODA MAE: My mama, her mama, may they rest in peace, they had de gift. Mama always said I had it, but I never did. She tol' me all about it, how it felt an' all. But now that it's happenin' I don't know what to do. You're scarin' me half to death. Please, you gotta go away, you gotta find someone else.
SAM: Someone else? Are you outta your I'm gettin' there fast. Leave me alone.
ODA MAE: I'm gettin' there fast. Leave me alone.
SAM: Not till you help me.
ODA MAE: Where are you?
LOUISE: Where? I'm right here.
SAM: I'm standing right beside you.
ODA MAE: ( mimicking his words ) "I'm standing right beside you." ( she pauses and looks up ) Are you white?
SAM: ODA MAE
ODA MAE: Oh God, I knew it. He's white. Why
SAM: Listen, damn it. You can help me. There's a woman, Molly Jensen. She's in terrible danger. The man who killed me broke into our apartment. He's going to go back. You've gotta warn Why would she listen to me?
ODA MAE: Why would she listen to me?
SAM: She has to! This man's a killer! He's got a key.
ODA MAE: Forget it, mister. I can't.
SAM: It's just a phone call. You're all I've got. Lookit. I'm not leavin' till you help me. I don't sleep anymore, so I can sit here day and night. I don't care how long it takes. I can talk forever.
MOLLY: ODA MAE ( V.O. )
MOLLY: ODA MAE ( V.O. ) ( she hesitates )
MOLLY: Who is this?
MOLLY: ( stunned ) Sam Wheat. He asked me to call.
ODA MAE: What'd I tell you.
SAM: You gotta go there.
ODA MAE: Look, I don't care what you do to me, I'm not goin' nowhere.
SAM: "I'm Henery the Eighth I am / Henery the Eighth I am, I am / I'm gettin' married to the widow next door / She's been married seven times before / And every one was an Henery / Wouldn't take a Willie or a Sam / I'm her eighth old man I'm Henery / Henery the Eighth I am, I am / Henery the Eighth I am / Second verse same as the first / I'm Henery the Eighth I am."
ODA MAE: Okay! Okay! I'll go. You just shut your mouth.
ODA MAE: I can't believe I'm doin' this. I gotta be a crazy lady goin' into the city with you. I never go there. What the hell you doin' in my life, huh? Why me?
OMITTED: EXT. LOFT BUILDING - DAY Oda Mae approaches the loft building and buzzes Molly's apartment. She waits a few moments.
ODA MAE: There's nobody there.
SAM: Just wait.
ODA MAE: No, sir. I did what I promised. I said I'd come and I'm here. I didn't say anything 'bout waitin'.
SAM: Just one more time. Please. It's a big place.
SAM: ( continuing ) "Ninety-nine bottles of beer on the wall, ninety nine bottles of beer,"
ODA MAE: ( nervous ) Don't go away. It's Oda Mae Brown. I called you last night. Your friend Sam says you gotta talk to me.
ODA MAE: Hey, do you mind? This here's a private conversation.
SAM: Ask her about the sweater in the closet, the one she knitted that's too big.
ODA MAE: What about the sweater you knitted that was too big?
SAM: Four sizes.
ODA MAE: Four sizes.
SAM: She couldn't throw it out. I saw. I was there.
ODA MAE: You couldn't throw it out. He saw. He was there. This is for real. Hey do you hear me up there?
WORKMAN: I hear you.
ODA MAE: I'm not talkin' to you.
WORKMAN: Haven't you ever heard of phones?
ODA MAE: Kiss my behind! Listen, I'm not gonna stand here all Thank God.
WORKMAN: Thank God.
ODA MAE: Forget it. I've had enough of this.
ODA MAE: ( continuing ) ( Molly nods ) I'm Oda Mae Brown. ( walking over and shaking her hand ) You can call me Oda.
MOLLY: Why should I believe you? Why should I believe any of this?
ODA MAE: Girl, if you think I'd come down here for the fun of it, you got another think comin'. This Sam of yours. I don't know, lady. I mean, you ever hear a whole night of "Henry the Eighth I am?"
MOLLY: He did that? That's how he got me to go out with him.
ODA MAE: And he cain't carry a tune.
MOLLY: I know. Oh God. This is all so crazy. I can't believe I'm talking to you like this. I don't believe in these things. I don't believe in life after Tell her she's wrong.
SAM: Tell her she's wrong.
ODA MAE: He says you're wrong.
MOLLY: You're talking to him right now?
ODA MAE: What? You think I'm makin' it up?
MOLLY: Where is he?
ODA MAE: How should I know? It's not like I can see him. I just hear his voice.
SAM: I'm holding her hand.
ODA MAE: He says he's holding your hand.
MOLLY: I'm sorry. I don't believe you. Why are you doing this to me? I don't believe a word you're saying. Sam is dead. He's dead.
SAM: I'm holding her hand.
ODA MAE: He says he's holding your hand.
SAM: God, I love her. I love her so much.
ODA MAE: He says he loves you. so much.
MOLLY: ( shaking her head ) No. He would never say that.
SAM: ( his eyes brightening ) Ditto. Tell her "ditto".
ODA MAE: Ditto? What's that mean, ditto?
MOLLY: INT. LOFT - DAY Molly is pressed up against the edge of the couch listening nervously as Oda Mae speaks. Sam wanders around the room, They both say "yes" at the same time.
ODA MAE: To tell the truth, I don't know how I'm doin' it. In fack, confidentially, nothin' like this never happened to me before. Now, all a sudden, I can't turn it off. Is this you? Is this him?
ODA MAE: ( continuing; to Sam ) Hazel eyes, huh? You sound like they'd be blue.
MOLLY: I don't understand. Why did he come back? Why is he still here?
ODA MAE: Cause he's stuck, that's why. He's between worlds. It happens sometimes, when their spirits get out too quick. He thinks he still has stuff t'do down here.
SAM: Come on Oda Mae, stop rambling.
ODA MAE: Oh, oh, now he's got an attitude.
SAM: I do not have an attitude.
ODA MAE: ( to Molly ) We're having a discussion. ( back to Sam ) Whataya mean, you're not angry? If you weren't angry you wouldn't be raisin' your voice like that.
SAM: Goddamn it, Oda Mae!
ODA MAE: Ah ah, baby. That does it. I don't talk to anybody who takes the Lord's name in vain.
SAM: Relax, Oda Mae.
ODA MAE: You relax. You're the dead one. You want my help, then you apologize. Nobody talks to me like that, Jesus Christ!
SAM: Jesus Christ!
ODA MAE: ( to Molly ) Excuse me, girl. Time for me to go.
MOLLY: I don't believe I'm watching this.
SAM: Damn it. All right. I apologize. Please, Oda Mae, I need you to tell Molly what I'm saying. You gotta tell her word for word.
SAM: ( continuing ) Please, Oda Mae, I need you to tell Molly what I'm saying. You gotta tell her word for word.
ODA MAE: Monsieur has a message for you.
SAM: Molly, you're in danger.
ODA MAE: You can't tell her like that. And would you stop movin' all over the place? You're makin' me sick.
SAM: Say it!
ODA MAE: He's sayin' you're in danger.
MOLLY: Danger?. What do you mean?
SAM: I know the man who killed me. Willie Lopez. I know where he lives.
ODA MAE: He says he knows the man who killed him, Willie Lopez. He's Puerto Rican.
SAM: Write it down.
ODA MAE: Write it down.
SAM: You do it!
ODA MAE: Now I'm a secretary.
SAM: 321 Prospect Place. Apartment 4D.
ODA MAE: 321? Hey, that's my neighborhood.
SAM: Molly, he's got my wallet and my key. He was in here.
ODA MAE: He's got his wallet and key. He was in here.
MOLLY: In here?
SAM: ( directly to Molly ) You have to go to the police. The Mugger wasn't acting alone. It was a setup, Moll. I was murdered.
ODA MAE: He says he was set up, that he was murdered. He wants you to go to the
ODA MAE: ( continuing ) I'm sorry. I don't want nothin' to do with this.
SAM: Where you going?
ODA MAE: Don't follow me! I've done all I'm gonna do. I'm finished. And I ain't comin' back. So don't you come botherin' me again cause it's over. I mean it. This is it. Have a nice life. Have a nice death. I'm goin'.
OMITTED: INT. KITCHEN - THAT NIGHT Carl is pacing nervously. He seems very upset. After a moment he approaches Molly. Sam is behind her.
CARL: Molly, there's no one on earth who'd like it to be true more than me, but you've got to be rational about this. I understand your desire to hold on to him, but this. this is absurd.
MOLLY: It was real, Carl. She was real.
SAM: Listen to her, Carl, goddamn it. She needs some support here.
CARL: Molly, you're a grown woman. How can you believe some fortune teller from She was in touch with him.
MOLLY: She was in touch with him.
CARL: I don't believe it, Molly. Not for a Come on, Carl. Open your mind.
SAM: Come on, Carl. Open your mind.
MOLLY: Carl, she knew things.
CARL: What kind of things?
MOLLY: I told you, the picture in Reno, the starfish,. damn it, Carl. She said Sam knew who killed him. That he was set up. murdered.
CARL: Oh boy. This is getting deranged. We're going off the deep end here.
SAM: Give him the address, Moll.
MOLLY: She had a name, an address Willie Lopez, 321 Prospect Place. She said he had Sam's wallet.
CARL: This is sick. This is really sick. How can you swallow this crap? Who knows if this guy exists? Maybe she's just setting someone up.
MOLLY: That's what I have to find out.
CARL: Find out? What are you talking about?
MOLLY: Sam wants me to go to the police.
CARL: Sam wants you to go to the police? Molly! Jesus! Are you outta your mind? What are you gonna tell 'em? Some storefront psychic's been getting messages from the dead? Do you know how that sounds? You're talkin' ghosts here, for God's sake.
CARL: ( continuing ) I'm sorry. This stuff just really gets to me.
MOLLY: You don't believe me. You don't believe any of this, do you?
CARL: ( half heartedly ) I'm trying to, but. Look, if it'll make you sleep any better, I'll check it out, okay? Now why don't you go to bed. Try and get some sleep.
SAM: Way to go, Carl!
WILLIE: Carl, what're you doin' here? Who've you been talking to?
CARL: ( scared, in over his head ) Who've you been talking to?
WILLIE: Talking to? What the hell do you mean? What's going on?
CARL: Some woman knows all about you. The murder, everything. Where's she getting it from, huh?
WILLIE: What the hell are you talking about? I haven't said a word.
CARL: She knows your name, goddamn it! She knows where you live!
WILLIE: A lot of women know where I live.
CARL: This isn't a joke, man. You find that bitch, whoever she is, and. get rid of her, you hear me? I've got four million dollars stuck in that fucking computer. If I don't get those codes, if that money's not transferred soon, I'm dead. If I lose Balistrari's money, we're both Tell him you only wash dirty money on the first of the month.
WILLIE: Tell him you only wash dirty money on the first of the month.
CARL: What is wrong with you? Is everything a joke? You were supposed to steal his wallet. You weren't supposed to kill him. Was that a joke?
WILLIE: ( casually ) I did you a favor. Freebee.
CARL: ( sickened ) These are drug dealers, man. ( pause ) Don't blow this for me, Willie. I've risked my job here. I could go to jail. A hundred thousand of that money goes to me. Now give me Sam's key. I'll get that address book You killed me, Carl. You had me killed. Look what you've done to me! Look what you've done!
SAM: You killed me, Carl. You had me killed. Look what you've done to me! Look what you've done!
SAM: You fucker! You mother fucker! I had a life, Goddamn you. I had a life!
MOLLY: You white fascist bigot. Who do you think you are? Bed Stuy's part of New York, you know. This is America.
WOMAN: Hey, Snow, you lost or sumpin'?
TRACKING SHOT: When Molly turns down 131st Street, the crowds disperse and she is all alone. There is a sense of menace in the air. A group of young men sitting on a stoop watches as she walks by. One of them whistles. Molly keeps walking.
MOLLY: Look, you've gotta believe me. I don't even believe this stuff, myself. But this is real. Do you think I'd come here if it wasn't real? You told me to come if I had any new information. Well, here I am.
MOLLY: ( continuing ) Don't look at me like that. You guys use psychics all the time.
MOLLY: ( continuing ) Damn it. I know how this sounds. I hear myself saying it and I want to cringe. But this woman knew things she couldn't have known, intimate How intimate?
WALLACE: How intimate?
MOLLY: Things Sam only said to me.
WALLACE: ( smirking ) Okay, let me get this straight. According to this psychic lady, there are ghosts and spirits all over the place, watching us all the time, ( she stands up ) I'm sorry. I've got important things to do.
MOLLY: I'm telling you. The killer's name is Willie Lopez. I've got his address. You've got to check it out.
SGT. BEIDERMAN: Okay. You just wait here. Let me see if this guy's got a record.
MOLLY: What are you doing? Where's your file on Willie Lopez?
SGT. BEIDERMAN: There's no file for a Willie Lopez. He was probably some old boyfriend she was trying to get even with. This psychic woman's record goes back a long way. Fraud, numbers rackets, you name it. She's a real
SGT. BEIDERMAN: ( continuing ) 1967. Shreveport, Louisiana. Forgery, selling false ID. Served one year. 1971. Baton Rouge. Arrested for fraud, numbers racketeering. Served ten months. 1974. Hattiesburg, Mississippi. Fraud, seven months. 1984. Albany, New York. Petty larceny. It goes on and on.
SGT. BEIDERMAN: ( continuing ) This woman's a charlatan. You can't believe anything she said.
MOLLY: This isn't possible. There were words, private things. How could she have known all that?
SGT. BEIDERMAN: They have ways.
MOLLY: Ways? What ways?
SGT. BEIDERMAN: They've got a million cons. A lot of times they read the obits. All she had to do was see the word "banker". Hell, they even go through your garbage to find things they can use, letters, old papers. They don't need
SGT. BEIDERMAN: ( continuing ) I bet you threw stuff out, huh? It could have been anything. What about that underwear she knew all about?
SGT. BEIDERMAN: ( continuing ) Green underwear. I'll bet she zeroed right in on that.
MOLLY: No! She was real. She said things. She knew about a sweater I knitted, about songs we sang. She knew about this place we went, Montego Bay.
SGT. BEIDERMAN: I'm sorry. I know this is hard. People want so much to believe. They're grieving, vulnerable. They'd give anything for one last moment. money, insurance policies. Believe me, these people know what they're doing. Look, I know how you must feel. You know, you can press charges.
MOLLY: Oh God, I wanted it to be Sam.
CARL: ( excitedly ) God, let this be it!
CARL: ( continuing ) Oh God, yes!
CARL: ( continuing ) Tony, this is Carl. I'm all set. We're fine. Everything's fine. Just tell me what you want me to do.
VOICE: We want you to transfer the money from the 12 separate accounts into a single account under the name "Rita Miller". Tomorrow, at five minutes before closing, 3:55 p. m., transfer the full account to First Island Bank of Nassau, registry number 486-
VOICE: ( continuing ) Call us when it's done.
CARL: Tell Mr. Balistrari there won't be any problems.
VOICE: I'll do that.
REVEAL SAM: He is standing in front of Carl, watching. Quickly, Carl begins punching commands into the computer. He is setting up the dummy account. Rita Miller, #926-31043.
SAM: Why can't you hear me, Molly? I need
MOLLY: Who's there?
CARL: Molly, it's Carl. Can I come up?
SAM: Don't open it. He's a murderer, Moll!
CARL: Hi. Thanks. I know it's late. I'm sorry to disturb you. I felt bad about last night. This supernatural stuff just makes me so uncomfortable. I don't even read horoscopes.
MOLLY: Don't worry. It's okay.
CARL: No it's not. You needed me to hear you and I didn't and that was wrong. I want you to know that I'm your friend, Moll.
SAM: You were never our friend.
CARL: ( holding out a paper bag ) Hey, I brought you some Japanese apple pears. I know you like them.
MOLLY: ( taking the bag ) Oh, that's so sweet.
CARL: Listen, can I come in for a minute? I won't stay long. I've had one of those days. Maybe a cup of coffee?
SAM: No, Moll. Don't do it. Don't let him
MOLLY: ( hesitating )
OMITTED: INT. LIVINGROOM - NIGHT Carl, in shirt sleeves and Molly in her robe, are sitting on the couch drinking coffee. We notice that Carl is wearing yellow suspenders. Sam is beside himself, watching them.
MOLLY: Are you alright? You look nervous, What can I tell you. It's been tough. Hell, you know. It still hurts so Then on top of it all. it's the responsibilities. They've given me my own accounts, but I've had no time to adjust. My mind has been
CARL: ( glancing at her thighs ) What can I tell you. It's been tough. Hell, you know. It still hurts so ( he poses sadly ) Then on top of it all. it's the responsibilities. They've given me my own accounts, but I've had no time to adjust. My mind has been
CARL: ( continuing ) Where were you this morning? I thought you were coming to the bank to sign those papers.
MOLLY: I didn't have time. I went to the police, Carl.
CARL: You're kidding. You really did it? I don't believe. What did you tell them? What did they say?
MOLLY: You were right, you know. I felt like such a fool. They brought out a file on this psychic woman ten inches thick. It was awful.
CARL: ( relieved ) A ripoff artist, huh?
SAM: ( shocked ) Molly, no.
MOLLY: The sad part is that I believed her. I believed her, Carl. It was all a sham.
CARL: ( relaxing ) Sometimes we need to believe.
MOLLY: Why?. I was a fool. I don't believe anything anymore. Why would people do such things?
CARL: ( milking it ) It's hard to face reality, Moll, the hard cold facts of it. What you have to remember is the love you felt. That's what's real. You have to remember how good Sam was. How much he loved you.
CARL: ( continuing ) You were everything to him, Molly. You were his life.
MOLLY: ( finally crying ) I feel so alone.
CARL: You're not alone. You're young. You've got so much talent. You're fantastically gorgeous.
MOLLY: ( appreciating his words ) Oh God, I don't know what's real anymore. I don't know what to think.
CARL: Just think about Sam. Think about what he meant to you, the years you had together, how wonderful they
CARL: ( continuing ) Let your feelings out. ( continuing ) Life turns on a dime, Moll. People think they have forever, that they'll always have tomorrow. But it's not true. Sam taught us that. We have to live for now, for today.
CARL: ( continuing ) Life turns on a dime, Moll. People think they have forever, that they'll always have tomorrow. But it's not true. Sam taught us that. We have to live for now, for today.
SAM: Sam charges wildly at the couch and begins flailing uncontrollably at the two of them. Unexpectedly his foot kicks out and hits a framed photograph of him and Molly that's sitting on an end table. The picture CRASHES to the floor, the glass SHATTERING. Molly jumps up, the mood suddenly broken. She sees the photo and recoils. Carl reaches for her. She backs away. Sam is stunned by what has happened. He jumps up and tries kicking over another picture but nothing moves. His foot goes right through it. Molly looks at Carl, drying her tears.
OMITTED: Sam charges wildly at the couch and begins flailing uncontrollably at the two of them. Unexpectedly his foot kicks out and hits a framed photograph of him and Molly that's sitting on an end table. The picture CRASHES to the floor, the glass SHATTERING. Molly jumps up, the mood suddenly broken. She sees the photo and recoils. Carl reaches for her. She backs away. Sam is stunned by what has happened. He jumps up and tries kicking over another picture but nothing moves. His foot goes right through it. Molly looks at Carl, drying her tears.
ANGLE: Sam charges wildly at the couch and begins flailing uncontrollably at the two of them. Unexpectedly his foot kicks out and hits a framed photograph of him and Molly that's sitting on an end table. The picture CRASHES to the floor, the glass SHATTERING. Molly jumps up, the mood suddenly broken. She sees the photo and recoils. Carl reaches for her. She backs away. Sam is stunned by what has happened. He jumps up and tries kicking over another picture but nothing moves. His foot goes right through it. Molly looks at Carl, drying her tears.
MOLLY: I can't. I'm sorry. I can't. It's too soon. You've been great Carl, but. I need you to leave. Please. I need you to.
CARL: Sure. It's okay. I understand. I really do.
CARL: ( continuing ) Look, what if we have dinner tomorrow night? Just talk. Can I interest you in that?
SAM: Molly hesitates a moment and then nods her head "yes". Carl INT. SUBWAY STATION - NIGHT Sam rushes madly down a flight of stairs into a subway station. A train is just leaving. He jumps on board.
NO!!!: Molly hesitates a moment and then nods her head "yes". Carl INT. SUBWAY STATION - NIGHT Sam rushes madly down a flight of stairs into a subway station. A train is just leaving. He jumps on board.
OMITTED: ANGLE - SAM disappointed. Suddenly, an express train passes alongside his local. Sam sticks his face inside it. Suddenly, he smiles and rushes onto it.
ANGLE: Sam does not have to stand there long. Within seconds, the terrifying Ghost he had seen before comes charging at him. We notice him more clearly now. He is wearing a dark blue pea coat. There is a grizzled look about him. He has stained teeth and seems perpetually unshaven.
GHOST: Get off my train! Teach me how you do that! I want to learn! I'm not leaving til you teach You stubborn asshole.
SAM: Teach me how you do that! I want to learn! I'm not leaving til you teach You stubborn asshole.
GHOST: You stubborn asshole.
GHOST: ( continuing ) What are you doing? What are you doing? You can't push it with your finger. You're dead.
SAM: I don't get it.
GHOST: It's your mind, you idiot. It's all in the mind. The problem is you think you're still real, that you're standin' on the floor, that you're wearin' those clothes. Bullshit! You don't even have a body anymore. It's all up here. You wanna move things, you gotta use your mind. You gotta focus! You hear what I'm saying?
SAM: How do you focus?
GHOST: I don't know how you focus! You just
GHOST: ( continuing ) It's all in the anger. You gotta direct it. You gotta channel it.
SAM: I'm angry all the time. It doesn't do a thing.
GHOST: Cause you're angry all over. You gotta be angry here, in the pit of your stomach. Bring it down here. Let it explode. It's like a reactor, you know. Pow!
SAM: I did it!
GHOST: Way to go.
SAM: practicing. He smashes at an abandoned tennis shoe with his fist. Nothing happens.
GHOST: From your gut. What do I keep tellin'
GHOST: ( continuing ) Give it time! What else have you
SAM: How long have you been here?
GHOST: Since they pushed me.
SAM: Someone pushed you?
GHOST: Yeah, someone pushed me!
SAM: What? You don't believe me? You think I fell? You think I jumped? Well, fuck you! It wasn't my time! I wasn't supposed to go! I'm not supposed to be here!
GHOST: What? You don't believe me? You think I fell? You think I jumped? Well, fuck you! It wasn't my time! I wasn't supposed to go! I'm not supposed to be here!
GHOST: ( continuing ) I'd give everything for a drag. Just one drag.
GHOST: ( continuing ) Who the hell are you? Why are you hounding me like this? Leave me alone.
OMITTED: INT. SUBWAY STATION - NIGHT Sam, all alone, walks through the station. Suddenly, he reaches out and pushes a garbage can lid. It swings back and forth. He is delighted. A beer can is sitting on a bench. He pushes it off, watching it roll across the platform with childlike glee. Looking up, Sam sees an advertisement for Market Security Bank and Trust. He stares at it with great interest. "Special Banking for Special People. We make it easy for you." Something registers in Sam's eyes. He yells and jumps straight up, hitting a subway sign with his finger. With great excitement, he runs for the stairs and rushes from the INT. SEANCE ROOM - NIGHT ORTISHA JONES, a black woman with brassy red hair, is sitting at Oda Mae's seance table surrounded by several of her relatives. Clara and Louise stand behind Oda Mae helping with the ritual. Oda Mae goes into her trance.
OMITTED: INT. SEANCE ROOM - NIGHT ORTISHA JONES, a black woman with brassy red hair, is sitting at Oda Mae's seance table surrounded by several of her relatives. Clara and Louise stand behind Oda Mae helping with the ritual. Oda Mae goes into her trance.
ANGLE: A GROUP OF GHOSTS is milling behind Oda Mae. Sam comes barging into the room and looks at them in amazement.
SAM: What the hell?
ODA MAE: What is all this? What's goin' on?
SAM: What is all this? What's goin' on?
ODA MAE: What'd you do, tell every spook in town about me? I got spooks from out of town here. There's stuff goin' on you wouldn't believe. I can't hardly believe it myself.
SAM: Oda Mae. You're doing it. This is for real. How do you like that?
ODA MAE: I don't.
SAM: Come on. Look at this. You're doing
GHOST: Can you hurry this up? My husband's in the waiting room.
SAM: I need your help, Oda Mae. There's something we need to do.
ODA MAE: Forget it. I'm not doin' anything. You're holdin' on to a life that don't want you no more. Give it up.
SAM: Give it up? I'm already dead.
ODA MAE: Dead, yeah, but you ain't finished dyin'. Give up the ghost.
SAM: And how am I supposed to do that?
ODA MAE: You're asking me?
ORTISHA: Are you speaking to me?
ODA MAE: Does it look like I'm speakin' to So, are you gonna leave or not? I've got work to do.
ODA MAE: ( continuing ) What's a matter? You're supposed to be concentrating. How do you expect me to do this if you're not concentrating? Okay then. You ready? Let's do it.
ANGLE: Oda Mae and everyone in the room gets very quiet. One of the ghosts draws close. Oda Mae's eyes roll up into her head. Then, suddenly, an extraordinary thing occurs. We see the spirit pull back and dive right into Oda Mae. Oda Mae gulps. Her nostrils flare. Her eyes bulge.
ODA MAE: Oh, Lord! Stop! Whatcha doin' to me?
ORLANDO: ( screaming )
ORTISHA: ( excitedly ) Orlando! Is that you?
ORLANDO: ( disoriented ) Ortisha, where are you? I can't see too good.
RELATIVES: Here! She's here!
ORTISHA: In front of you! I'm right here!
ORLANDO: Mother of God, what've you done to your hair!?
ORTISHA: Orlando, do you like it? It's Autumn
ODA MAE: Get out of here, you little shit!
ODA MAE: ( continuing ) Lord oh Lord, don't you ever do that to me!
ORTISHA: ( confused )
ANGLE ORLANDO: He is lying on the floor, exhausted.
ORLANDO: What happened to me? I can barely You should know better than to try that. It's not worth it. It'll wipe you out for days.
GHOST: You should know better than to try that. It's not worth it. It'll wipe you out for days.
SAM: That was incredible, Oda Mae.
ODA MAE: Never again. Never.
ORTISHA: Where's Orlando?
SAM: He spoke through you. It was amazing.
ODA MAE: No more, uh uh, no more.
ORTISHA: What happened to Orlando? Where'd he leave the insurance policy?
SAM: You're great, Oda Mae! You're a real medium. It's what you were born for.
ODA MAE: I want everybody out.
ORTISHA: Ortisha looks around the room, befuddled. Clara and Louise aren't sure what to do.
ODA MAE: Ortisha and her relatives scurry out fast. The ghosts, too, begin passing through the wall. Oda Mae lays her head on the table. Suddenly her whole body begins heaving. She is starting to cry. Sam is surprised.
SAM: Oda Mae, what's wrong?
ODA MAE: Out! I said out! That means you,
OMITTED: INT. SEANCE ROOM - NIGHT Clara knocks on the seance room door and peeks in.
CLARA: Oda Mae, there's a man here who says he has to see you right away.
ODA MAE: I ain't seein' nobody.
WILLIE: Are you the one that can talk to the I beg your pardon! I'm not seeing customers right now.
ODA MAE: I beg your pardon! I'm not seeing customers right now.
WILLIE: I said I need to know if you're the I'm the one. But not now.
ODA MAE: I'm the one. But not now.
WILLIE: This is important. I have a friend. He died recently. Some say he was mugged. I think he was murdered.
WILLIE: ( continuing ) I'm told you can contact people like that. Is that true?
ODA MAE: It's been known to happen. But it's not gonna happen now, so come back I can't wait til later.
WILLIE: I can't wait til later.
ODA MAE: What's your friend's name?
WILLIE: Good question. Why don't you tell
WILLIE: ( continuing ) You're the psychic, right?
ODA MAE: This ain't no guessin' game.
WILLIE: Then what is it, lady?
ODA MAE: Lookit, I don't know what your trouble Who are you?
WILLIE: You're the mindreader. I hear you've been tellin' people about me for days. What's my name?
SAM: ODA MAE
ODA MAE: Willie sits straight up in his chair, amazed.
WILLIE: How'd you know that?
ODA MAE: Because I'm psychic.
OMITTED: EXT. STREET - NIGHT Sam rushes to the sidewalk and looks in all directions. Willie is nowhere to be seen. He hurries back to Oda Mae.
OMITTED: INT. SEANCE ROOM - NIGHT The room is a disaster area, full of hysterical women. Oda Mae is being dragged from the closet, unhurt but in a state of shock.
ODA MAE: He tried to kill me! Why? Why?
ODA MAE: ( continuing ) Talk to me!
SAM: Oda Mae, we're in trouble.
ODA MAE: We're in trouble? Who's we? You're already dead.
SAM: I can stop them. But I can't do it alone. You've gotta help me.
ODA MAE: Help you? It's me they're tryin' to You're right. And they'll be back. I'm your only chance.
SAM: You're right. And they'll be back. I'm your only chance.
ODA MAE: Why don't you go find a haunted house and rattle some chains.
SAM: I need you Oda Mae. I need you to get some fake ID's.
ODA MAE: Fake ID's? What for?
SAM: Help me now, they'll never bother you again. I promise.
ODA MAE: ( stopping, thinking ) Help you? Whataya talking about exactly? What else do I have to do?
ODA MAE: This is crazy. This ain't gonna work. I don't know nothin' 'bout bankin'.
SAM: I'll teach you. You'll learn fast.
SAM: See where it says "New Accounts"? That's where you're going.
ODA MAE: ( paranoid ) I'm not givin' 'em any money.
SAM: Just do what I say.
OFFICER: Can I help you?
SAM: Tell her you're here to fill out a signature card for a new account.
ODA MAE: I'm here to fill out a signature card for a new account.
OFFICER: And do you know your account number?
SAM: Yes. 926-31043.
ODA MAE: Yes. 926-31043.
SAM: Rita Miller.
ODA MAE: Tell her Rita Miller.
OFFICER: Tell her Rita Miller.
SAM: Tell her Rita Miller.
ODA MAE: Rita Miller.
OFFICER: ( eyeing her oddly ) Didn't they have you sign a card when you opened the account?
SAM: Tell her Carl Bruner opened it for you by phone and asked you to come in today.
ODA MAE: Carl Bruner opened it for me. He asked me to come in today.
OFFICER: The Officer checks out the name and account number on her computer screen. It all seems to jive. She pulls out a card from her desk and hands it to Oda Mae. Oda Mae stares at it.
SAM: Just sign you name at the bottom on the first blank line.
SAM: ( continuing ) No, no, no. Rita Miller.
ODA MAE: ( to the officer ) Can I have another one please? I signed the wrong name.
SAM: Tell her to see that it goes right up to the third floor file since you have a transaction to make.
ODA MAE: I need you to put that in the third floor file cause I got a transfusion to make.
OFFICER: A what?
ODA MAE: You know what I mean. Umm, can I keep the pen?
OFFICER: ( surprised, not sure what to say ) .uh, sure.
ODA MAE: INT. CARL'S OFFICE The clock on Carl's wall says 3:40. He seems anxious. The phone RINGS. Carl jumps. He pushes down the speaker button.
CARL: Hello. Carl Bruner speaking.
VOICE: Mr. Balsitrari
CARL: Mr. Balsitrari
VOICE: Balistrari? Carl, it's me, John. I've got the info on the Bradley Oh yeah, yeah. That's great. I'll pick it up later.
CARL: Oh yeah, yeah. That's great. I'll pick it up later.
SAM: Tell the guard you're here to see Lyle Furgeson.
ODA MAE: Lyle Furgeson, please.
GUARD: Do you have an appointment?
ODA MAE: No. I'm here for the fun of it.
SAM: Don't say that! Tell him Rita Miller's Tell him Rita Miller's here.
ODA MAE: Tell him Rita Miller's here.
GUARD: Just one moment, please.
SAM: Don't embellish.
ODA MAE: Yes, Sir.
GUARD: ( turning around ) Excuse me?
SAM: ( whispering ) Now listen, this guy Furgeson's a real jerk.
ODA MAE: Why are you whispering?
SAM: ( he doesn't know ) Just be quiet and listen. I've known him five years and he still thinks my name's Paul.
SAM: ( continuing ) He's a social moron. You don't have to worry about anything. Tell the guard Furgeson knows you. You spent time with him and his wife Shirley at the Brewster's Christmas party last year.
GUARD: What is this regarding?
ODA MAE: What? He doesn't remember me? We were together at the Brewster's Christmas party. With his wife Shirley. They had that lovely tree. all those presents. Why, I'll never forget all those beautiful.
ODA MAE: ( continuing ) Oops. Gas. This'll be easy. Furgeson was so drunk at that party, he could have had a conversation with Tina Turner and he wouldn't remember.
SAM: This'll be easy. Furgeson was so drunk at that party, he could have had a conversation with Tina Turner and he wouldn't remember.
FURGESON: Hello, hello. Of course, of course. It's been so long.
ODA MAE: A long time.
SAM: Ask how Bobby and Snooky are.
ODA MAE: How are Bobby and Snooky doin'?
FURGESON: ( perplexed ) Why, they're just fine, thank you. Nice of you to ask. And how is your. Couldn't be better.
ODA MAE: Couldn't be better.
FURGESON: Well, isn't that wonderful.
SAM: Tell him you've been wondering how they did on the Gibraltar securities.
ODA MAE: So tell me, Fergie, how did you do on the Gibraltar securities?
FURGESON: ( surprised ) The Gibraltar securities! Well, it looks like we topped out, huh?
SAM: "We sure did!"
ODA MAE: We sure did.
FURGESON: ( impressed ) That was a wonderful tip.
SAM: "Good old Randy".
ODA MAE: Good old Randy. Got a real head on his shoulders.
SAM: "Her" shoulders.
ODA MAE: "Her" shoulders.
FURGESON: Sure does. Well. well. So what brings you here today?
SAM: You're closing an account.
ODA MAE: I'm closing an account.
FURGESON: Well. wonderful. Do you have your account number?
SAM: ODA MAE
ODA MAE: She looks up into the air. Furgeson eyes her strangely.
SAM: She looks up into the air. Furgeson eyes her strangely.
ODA MAE: Make that 31-0-43. Numbers. I'm
FURGESON: ( trying to be calm ) Well, Rita, you'll be withdrawing four million dollars from us today, is that correct?
ODA MAE: Four million dollars?!
SAM: Say "yes"!
ODA MAE: ( gasping ) Yes! Four million. That's right. That's right.
FURGESON: And how will you want that?
ODA MAE: Tens and twenties?
FURGESON: A cashier's check! Tell him a cashier's check.
SAM: A cashier's check! Tell him a cashier's check.
ODA MAE: A cashier's check.
FURGESON: Fine. Of course, you realize we're required to get some identification from everyone. It's just procedural. You understand.
ODA MAE: Of course.
ODA MAE: You know, if you put that Brillo pad in the freezer, it'll last twice as
CARL: Get me the First Island Bank of Nassau. It's on the rolodex.
FURGESON: I'll just need your signature right Sign Rita Miller.
ODA MAE: Sign Rita Miller.
SAM: Sign Rita Miller.
SAM: ( continuing ) I'll be back in a minute. You're on your own. Don't say anything foolish.
FURGESON: Now you be careful with this. It's like carrying cash, you know.
ODA MAE: ( positively glowing ) I sure do.
ODA MAE: ( continuing ) Then my mother took all the money from the oil wells and put it in gasoline pumps. Every gas station has 'em you know, sometimes six or more. It adds up.
SAM: Oda Mae, come on. We gotta get out of here. Say goodbye.
ODA MAE: ( abruptly getting up ) Well, I've got to leave. It's been a pleasure doin' business with you. Say "hi" to Shirley and Snooky for Thank you, Rita. I'll be glad to.
FURGESON: Thank you, Rita. I'll be glad to.
SAM: Hurry up, Oda Mae.
ODA MAE: ( excitedly ) What a day!
MOLLY: He is surprised to see her and grows instantly solicitous.
FURGESON: Molly. How are you?
MOLLY: Lionel, a woman who just left, a black lady, about my height, did you see her?
FURGESON: Well, yes. I just took care of her.
MOLLY: What did she want? Did it have anything to do with me? Did she ask about Sam?
FURGESON: ( not understanding ) Sam? No. Why?
MOLLY: Was her name Oda Mae Brown?
FURGESON: No, Rita Miller. She just closed an
FURGESON: ( continuing ) Is there a problem?
MOLLY: ( hesitating, not sure what to say ) No. I guess not. Thanks.
LEEDEN: Carl, is something wrong?
CARL: Is someone playing with the computers?
LEEDEN: Is this a joke? One of my accounts is closed.
CARL: Is this a joke? One of my accounts is closed.
LEEDEN: Which account? What's wrong?
LEEDEN: ( continuing ) You want me to call someone?
CARL: ( changing his demeanor ) No, no. Never mind. It's okay. It's all right. I can do it.
ODA MAE: $4,000,000. $4,000,000. Lord Almighty.
SAM: Oda Mae. Take the check out of your
ODA MAE: Take it out? Why?
SAM: Just do it.
SAM: ( continuing ) Now endorse it. Sign Rita Miller.
ODA MAE: ( in shock ) Endorse it? Why?
SAM: Do what I say.
ODA MAE: That's blood money, Oda. I was killed for that money. Endorse it now.
SAM: That's blood money, Oda. I was killed for that money. Endorse it now.
ODA MAE: What are you going to do with it?
SAM: We're giving it away.
ODA MAE: Away? What do you mean? To who?
SAM: Look to your left.
ODA MAE: Are you outta your mind?
SAM: Do what I tell you.
ODA MAE: ( clutching the check ) I can't.
SAM: Yes, you can. If you don't do it, they'll track you down. Your only protection is to get rid of it, now.
ODA MAE: Sweet Jesus, you're killing me, Sam.
SAM: I'm saving you, Oda Mae. You'll go to heaven for this.
SAM: Write "St. Joseph's Shelter".
NUN: Bless you, child.
SAM: I'm proud of you.
ODA MAE: Don't you talk to me. I don't want you comin' round no more. I mean it. Come on, we're friends.
SAM: Come on, we're friends.
ODA MAE: Friends? Friends? I think you're wonderful, Oda Mae.
SAM: I think you're wonderful, Oda Mae.
SAM: Search, you bastard! You'll never find it. It's gone. They'll kill you for this, Carl. You and Willie. They'll wipe you off the face of the earth.
CARL: What the.?
CARL: ( continuing ) Who's doing that? You bastard! You goddamn bastard!
SAM: You bastard! You goddamn bastard!
CARL: He hits Carl again. Carl gasps in inexplicable pain.
SAM: It's dinner time, Carl. Don't you have a date with Molly, you creepy son-of-a bitch?
CARL: Jesus! Oh God!
MOLLY: Carl? Where were you? I thought we were having.?
CARL: I'm sorry. Things just got so crazy. I completely forgot.
SAM: Old Carl had a little trouble at the Forgot? I was worried. Is everything okay? Are you all right?
MOLLY: Forgot? I was worried. Is everything okay? Are you all right?
CARL: I'm okay. I'm alright. Look, can I talk to you for minute? Can I come
CARL: ( continuing ) I need to ask you a question.
SAM: He needs to borrow four million Molly, I know what the police said, but when you thought Sam was here, when you thought he spoke to you, what did you feel? What did he say?
CARL: Molly, I know what the police said, but when you thought Sam was here, when you thought he spoke to you, what did you feel? What did he say?
MOLLY: Why? What happened?
CARL: ( very tense ) Molly, that psychic woman, I want to know what she told you. I want to know what she said.
MOLLY: Carl, stop this. It was all a hoax. I told you. It wasn't real. She's a Does this have anything to do with her being at the bank today?
SAM: Oh shit!
CARL: ( gulping ) At the bank?
MOLLY: I was sure I saw her. Furgeson says she was taking out money. It turns out her name isn't even Oda Mae Brown. It's Rita Miller or something.
MOLLY: ( continuing ) What's wrong?
CARL: Stomach. My stomach. Do you have anything? Pepto Bismol.
MOLLY: ( worried ) Sure. Just a second. What's going
CARL: What are you doing to me. Get away! Get away!
CARL: You touch me again and I'll set her on fire. I mean it. I'll kill her. I'll blow up the whole building if I have to. Stay away!
CARL: ( continuing ) Go on, try it again. Let me see you turn it off now.
CARL: ( continuing ) Try and hurt me. I'll kill her if you hurt me. What's a matter? You believe me, huh? You better believe me! I want my money. I need that money and I want it tonight at 11:00. If that psychic lady doesn't bring it here, Molly's dead.
CARL: What's a matter? You believe me, huh? You better believe me! I want my money. I need that money and I want it tonight at 11:00. If that psychic lady doesn't bring it here, Molly's dead.
MOLLY: Oh my God. Is that the gas?
CARL: You must have left the stove on.
CARL: ( continuing ) Just glad I smelled it.
MOLLY: ( confused ) Me, too.
CARL: Molly, I'm sorry. I've got to go. Look, there's something going on. I can't talk now. Some trouble at the Trouble? What kind of trouble? Is it that woman, the psychic?
MOLLY: Trouble? What kind of trouble? Is it that woman, the psychic?
CARL: I don't have time to talk now. What if I come back? Around 11:00?
MOLLY: Carl, what's going on? Let me help I can't. I'm sorry to do this, but it's important. I'll be back.
CARL: I can't. I'm sorry to do this, but it's important. I'll be back.
CARL: ( continuing )
OMITTED: INT. ODA MAE'S LIVINGROOM - NIGHT Oda Mae is watching T.V. with Clara and Louise. Suddenly she jumps, aware of Sam's presence in the room.
ODA MAE: Clara and Louise jump, too.
CLARA: Not again!
ODA MAE: What're you doin' here?
SAM: Oda Mae! We're in trouble. They want the check. They're comin' to kill you. We gotta get outta here.
ODA MAE: The check? What do you mean, "the check". You said they'd never find What's happenin' Oda Mae?
CLARA: ( afraid ) What's happenin' Oda Mae?
SAM: It's them.
ODA MAE: They're comin' to kill me. What have you done?
SAM: They're heading for the door.
ODA MAE: ( terrified ) Jesus have mercy.
ODA MAE: Emergency! Let us in!
WOMAN: Who you kiddin'?
ELDERLY WOMAN: What're you doin'? You can't come in here. The cat don't like visitors. She'll pee all over the couch. You wanna pay for.
ODA MAE: in the elderly woman's vestibule, peering through the peephole. The old woman is struggling and still trying to talk. Oda Mae's knees are wobbling.
ODA MAE: They're gonna find us.
SAM: No they won't. I'm gonna get 'em.
ODA MAE: Oh yeah? And how you gonna do that?
SAM: Whataya mean? I'm a ghost, aren't I?
WILLIE: Looks like someone just left.
CARL: I'll check the building.
ANGLE: He rushes back out and down the stairs. Willie stays in the apartment. Suddenly, the doorbell RINGS. Willie rushes over and opens the door a crack. There is no one there. Confused, he backs away. The doorbell rings again. Completely mystified, he aims his gun and opens the door all the way. The hallway is empty. As Willie stands there, wondering what is happening, Sam steps inside and pushes the door closed. It slams shut. Willie nearly jumps out of his skin.
WILLIE: He stares at the door in total bewilderment. At that instant, a collection of picture frames flies off the breakfront and crashes into his legs. He backs away, spooked. Suddenly, the T.V. flicks ON at full volume and then the STEREO and the RADIO. Lights begin flashing on and off. Willie spins around in total dismay. Summoning all of his force, Sam slams into Willie. Willie recoils in unexplainable pain. He seems very disoriented. His gun falls to the floor. He reaches for it and Sam pushes it away. Willie jumps up, afraid. His eyes dart around the room. Sam laughs.
WILLIE: ( continuing ) Who's there? Who's doing that?
ANGLE: A pair of candle holders shoot off the mantle piece and nearly hit Willie in the head. He freaks. Grabbing his gun, Willie runs into the bathroom and locks the door. Suddenly the hot water faucet turns on by itself. Willie is terrified. Steam rises from the sink. Willie tries to get out, but Sam approaches him from behind and appears to dig his hands into his neck. Willie crumples to his knees.
WILLIE: Oh God!
WILLIE: ( continuing ) Let me outta here!
WILLIE: Help me!
CARL: Look out!
ANGLE: Sam backs against a wall in absolute horror. Carl, standing in the crowd, turns and runs.
ODA MAE: Sam? What happened?
SAM: He's dead, Oda Mae.
ODA MAE: ( she utters a sigh of relief ) Oh, thank God. It's over.
SAM: No. It's not over, Oda Mae. There's still Carl.
ODA MAE: Who's Carl?
SAM: Tell him to hurry!
ODA MAE: Can't you hurry up?
DRIVER: Listen, lady, I'm going as fast as I
ODA MAE: He gives her a dirty look.
MOLLY: Carl, is that you?
ODA MAE: Molly, it's Oda Mae. I know what you think of me, but your life is in danger. You have to listen to me. Sam's here, too. You gotta let us
MOLLY: Get the hell out of here. I'm calling the police.
ODA MAE: Go ahead. We want you to call 'em. You're in trouble. Let us in.
MOLLY: ODA MAE
ODA MAE: Sam's death was no accident. He was murdered, Molly. Carl was laundering money at the bank. Sam found out. He's dangerous. He tried to kill me. He'll kill you, too.
MOLLY: ( screaming ) Why are you doing this to me? Get away from me! I know all about you. You're a fake. You're just a fake. Leave me alone!
SAM: Tell her she's wearing the blouse I spilled the Margarita on and the earrings I gave her for Christmas.
ODA MAE: Sam says you're wearin' the blouse he spilled the Margarita on and the earrings he gave you at Christmas.
MOLLY: grabbing hold of her beads. Her hand is shaking.
MOLLY: Go away!
SAM: Gimme a penny quick.
ODA MAE: Empty your purse. On the floor. Now.
SAM: Empty your purse. On the floor. Now.
SAM: ( continuing ) Push a penny under the door.
SAM: ( continuing; calling to Oda Mae ) Tell her it's for luck.
HALLWAY: Oda Mae standing in the hallway as the door to the loft begins to open. Slowly Molly steps out onto the landing and stares at her, nervously, uncomprehendingly. She hesitates for a long moment and then invites Oda Mae in.
MOLLY: Right. Yes, it's right on the corner. We're a red brick building with the entrance on the left side. Please hurry. Thank you Sergeant. We'll be waiting right here. Police are on their way.
MOLLY: What do we do now?
ODA MAE: Just wait.
MOLLY: Is Sam here?
SAM: I'm sitting beside you.
ODA MAE: ( pointing ) Right here.
MOLLY: ( fingering the air ) Can you feel me, Sam?
SAM: With all my heart.
ODA MAE: With all his heart, he says.
SAM: I'd give anything to be alive again, just to feel you once more.
ODA MAE: He wishes he could touch you, just one more time.
MOLLY: Oh, Sam.
ODA MAE: Okay, damn it, you can use me if you
ODA MAE: ( continuing ) Come on. Before I change my mind.
JUKEBOX: Sam's finger presses down two keys. We see a record slide out of its slot and move toward the turntable. We know what it is going to play.
ANGLE: Oda Mae closes her eyes. "Unchained Melody" begins to play. Sam hesitates for a moment and then cautiously, awkwardly slides his ghostly body into her solid form. We sense Oda Mae's discomfort gradually give way as Sam emerges inside her. After a second her body turns slowly toward Molly. Oda Mae's hand reaches out and with slow, deliberate gestures, touches Molly's hand. Molly swallows hard. She closes her Sam. It is as though he alone is there with Molly. His eyes are full of tears. He can barely move. His hand glides slowly down Molly's cheek. He seems to be in a state of ecstasy and The experience is more than he can bear. He pulls back.
ANGLE: Sam. It is as though he alone is there with Molly. His eyes are full of tears. He can barely move. His hand glides slowly down Molly's cheek. He seems to be in a state of ecstasy and The experience is more than he can bear. He pulls back.
MOLLY: Molly reaches out, takes Sam's hand, and guides it to her soft lips. Sam can barely breathe. He seems totally absorbed in the experience, the sensation of human flesh. His eyes are absolutely still and full of light. He seems to be glowing. Gently, Molly takes Sam's arm and guides him to his feet. Effortlessly, she draws him to the center of the huge loft. With great tenderness, she puts her arms around him and before he knows what is happening, they are dancing. It is a strange, touching image, reminiscent of their first night in their new home. Sam reaches out and slowly draws his fingers down over her face, caressing her forehead, her cheeks, her lips. She stands motionless. Her face shines. She knows beyond all doubt that it is him.
MOLLY: I love you so much.
ANGLE: A LOUD JARRING SOUND. It takes a moment to realize that it is someone KNOCKING at the door. The light slams back into its shadowy substance and Sam comes shooting back into his ghostly form. Oda Mae is standing with Molly in the center of the room. Sam is beside them. He appears shaken and dizzy. There is a another loud POUNDING at the door.
MOLLY: The police!
SAM: ODA MAE ( to Molly )
ODA MAE: ( to Molly )
SAM: What's happening to me?
MOLLY: It's Carl!
SAM: Get out of here! The fire escape.
ODA MAE: Come with me.
CARL: It is obvious that no one's home.
ANGLE: Sam, with great effort, rushes at Carl and attacks him with his fists. To his great shock, he has no impact. Carl walks right through him.
ODA MAE: Back to the fire escape. Head for the roof.
MOLLY: This way!
ODA MAE: Help us, Sam!
OMITTED: ODA MAE A hand falls on Oda Mae's shoulder. She spins around. Carl is standing behind her. She screams as he knocks her to the Molly looks down from the scaffolding and begins to scream.
ODA MAE: A hand falls on Oda Mae's shoulder. She spins around. Carl is standing behind her. She screams as he knocks her to the Molly looks down from the scaffolding and begins to scream.
CARL: I want the check. Just give me the
MOLLY: ( screaming ) God almighty, Carl! What are you doing? What have you done!?
CARL: Don't interfere! She's a thief. It's not her money.
CARL: ( continuing ) Keep out of this, Molly!
CARL: ( continuing ) Where is it?
ODA MAE: In my purse.
CARL: ODA MAE
ODA MAE: Over there.
CARL: Where is it, goddamn it? Where is I gave it away.
ODA MAE: I gave it away.
CARL: You're lying! Don't lie to me!
CARL: ( continuing ) I'll kill her. You touch me and I'll kill her. I mean it, Sam. Just give me the check.
CARL: ( continuing ) Sam, please. I didn't mean for him to kill you. It's not my fault. Come on, Sam, give me the check. Give it to me and I'll leave her alone.
ANGLE: Sam? Sam?
CARL: Sam? Sam?
ANGLE: With one last effort, Carl lurches forward. To his amazement, his body stands up and pulls away from the window. He looks down at his chest and is amazed to see that the glass is gone. There is no blood. Excited and confused, he turns around and sees Sam. For a moment, he cannot comprehend what is There is a strange, silent moment between them. Then, seemingly out of nowhere, a terrible CLICKING sound is heard. Frightening black forms are emerging from the darkness. Carl looks behind him and gasps. Past the figures coming toward him, he sees his own dead body. It is pinned to the window sill. Before Carl can cry out, the dark figures swoop down and envelope him. In a flash, his spirit is caught and surges with the dark forces back into the shadows. Far in some invisible distance, we can barely hear him scream. And then it is silent. It is over.
CARL: There is a strange, silent moment between them. Then, seemingly out of nowhere, a terrible CLICKING sound is heard. Frightening black forms are emerging from the darkness. Carl looks behind him and gasps. Past the figures coming toward him, he sees his own dead body. It is pinned to the window sill. Before Carl can cry out, the dark figures swoop down and envelope him. In a flash, his spirit is caught and surges with the dark forces back into the shadows. Far in some invisible distance, we can barely hear him scream. And then it is silent. It is over.
ANGLE: Molly is crouched in the corner, her back pressed tightly against the wall. She is staring into space. The room is filled with plaster dust. Slowly, emerging from the dust, we see Sam approaching Molly. He gazes at her with terrible Suddenly, a brilliant light glows from behind the ceiling and the skylight floods the room with a golden haze. Sam turns to look at it. His eyes are full of surprise and wonder. The spirits beyond the ceiling are beckoning to him. As he looks down, he notices that his hands are growing transparent. His body is beginning to fade. A faint smile forms on his face. He leans down toward Molly, staring at her for a long, silent moment.
SAM: Goodbye, Moll.
MOLLY: Sam? Is that you?
SAM: ( stunned ) I hear you, Sam.
MOLLY: I hear you, Sam.
MOLLY: ( continuing ) Oh God!
SAM: I can't stay anymore.
ODA MAE: They're waiting for you, Sam.
SAM: ( smiling ) I know. Goodbye, Oda Mae. ( with deep felt gratitude ) Thank you. Your mama would be proud.
SAM: I love you, Molly. I've always loved
MOLLY: The light inside Sam intensifies. A sweet smile emerges on his lips.
SAM: It's so amazing, Moll.
SAM: ( continuing ) The love inside.
SAM: ( continuing ) You take it with you.
MOLLY: See ya.
THE END: Writers : Bruce Joel Rubin
