"GHOST SHIP": ( formerly "CHIMERA" )
FADE IN: INT. BARGE - DAY Crewman EPPS ( 29 ), wearing a life vest and tool belt, jumps down into the darkness. She stands in a great hollow cavern, oily, wet, resonant with the sound of creaking, rusty steel and WATER MOVING OVER ITS HULL on the other side.
EPPS: It's a slow leak. She unclips and drops to the deck.
GREER: What's slow?
EPPS: Maybe twenty gallons an hour.
DODGE: Where from?
EPPS: Amidships starboard at the beam. Just under the waterline. I don't think it's a problem.
GREER: Hear that, Dodge? Epps don't think it's a problem.
DODGE: I'll sleep good tonight knowing that.
MURPHY: ( lifting the radio ) Murphy turns back to see Greer, Epps, and Dodge looking up at him from the stern.
GREER: The number nine on the starboard side's half flooded. Epps says it's a slow leak just under the waterline, about twenty gallons an hour. They must've pumped it before we left Of course they did.
MURPHY: Of course they did.
GREER: Let the buyer beware.
MURPHY: What do you say, Dodge?
VASILI: I thought you say Tuesday.
MURPHY: Better late than never.
VASILI: ( seeing the listing barge ) What's this?
MURPHY: You got a leak in the number nine No, no. You got leak.
VASILI: No, no. You got leak.
MURPHY: You pump it out and re-seam the hull, she'll be good as new.
VASILI: That cost me twenty grand at least.
MURPHY: Fifteen, at the most.
VASILI: Twenty. You knock off twenty and then we see. After my guy looks at INT. VASILI'S OFFICE - DAY In a prefab office with a view of the shipyard, Vasili cuts a check as Murphy and Greer look on. He tears it out of the book, handing it across the desk to Murphy, who inspects it.
MURPHY: You're kidding, right?
VASILI: You want fair pay, make hamburger for Mickey D. Otherwise, please to Vasili pushes a transfer register toward him. Murphy signs.
GREER: Not bad for dragging a leaky tub half way to Russia.
MURPHY: He'll sell the scrap for three times what he paid.
GREER: I must be in the wrong business.
MURPHY: You got that right.
GREER: ( imitating Vasili ) Better than "making hamburger for Mickey D."
DODGE: Much obliged, skipper.
GREER: Looks like Epps' gonna get some With that coxswain dickhead.
DODGE: With that coxswain dickhead.
MURPHY: You aren't jealous, are you Dodge?
DODGE: Are you kidding me? Jealous? Epps? Gimme a break. Greer and Murphy trade looks as Dodge raises his beer.
DODGE: What a laugh. A MINOR COMMOTION can be heard as they sit there.
GIRLFRIEND: You want to mess with me, I'll kick your bitch ass, girl.
WITH EPPS: Epps coolly puts out her cigarette as a circle has gathered around her and the girlfriend, anxious to see a girl fight.
EPPS: I don't know what you're talking about. I just bought this guy a beer.
GIRLFRIEND: This "guy" is my man, honey.
COASTGUARDSMAN: You, shut up.
GIRLFRIEND: You, shut up.
EPPS: ( starting off ) Listen, I don't want any trouble, okay ?
GIRLFRIEND: ( stopping Epps ) Uh-uh. No. We're gonna fix this right ( stepping up ) What seems to be the trouble, ladies?
MURPHY: ( stepping up ) What seems to be the trouble, ladies?
RIVETER: Whyn't you mind your own business, Murphy turns to see a shipyard RIVETER, a big man holding a beer, still wearing his welding leathers. Murphy turns back to Epps and the Girlfriend.
MURPHY: As I said, what seems to be the Didn't you hear me, grandpa? Or you got your hearing aid turned down?
RIVETER: Didn't you hear me, grandpa? Or you got your hearing aid turned down?
MURPHY: I heard you. But I'm choosing to ignore you. Epps, let's go. Epps starts forward but the Riveter stands in her way, taking Murphy by the collar.
RIVETER: These ladies was having themselves a discussion and you're interrupting You got about two seconds to get your paws off me, Tarzan.
MURPHY: You got about two seconds to get your paws off me, Tarzan.
RIVETER: Or what? Or WHACK! Murphy can't help but wince as a pool cue breaks in two over the Riveter's head. Dodge, cigarette in his mouth, takes a look at the cue half he still holds, shaking his head. The Riveter's hands fall from Murphy's collar and his legs buckle. Some of his BUDDIES hold him up as Greer reminds some of the others he's holding a pool cue of his own.
MURPHY: He looks to Epps like let's get the hell out of here. She grabs her coat.
COASTGUARDSMAN: Epps holds there as the Coastguardsman steps up to his He gives her the ring from his finger. Murphy rolls his eyes as the others look on.
COASTGUARDSMAN: Darlene. It's over. He gives her the ring from his finger. Murphy rolls his eyes as the others look on.
COASTGUARDSMAN: I don't love you anymore. Darlene breaks into tears as they all look on, some pat her on the back.
COASTGUARDSMAN: ( to Epps ) Come on, Candy. Let's get out of The Coastguardsman takes her by the hand. Epps looks to Murphy and the others as he leads her out.
EPPS: Morning everybody.
GREER: Show your tatoos to that coxswain last night, did you Epps?
EPPS: Showed him a hell of a lot more than I bet you did.
GREER: I bet you did.
MURPHY: It's my pen name.
EPPS: It's my pen name.
GREER: Red sky at night, sailor's delight.
MURPHY: Red sky in morning, sailor take EXT. PORT GERMAINE - DOCKS - CONTINUOUS - DAY As the tug turns into the harbor channel, the sun rising under a cloud bank of brilliant red and orange.
DODGE: Fuck it. He puts down his hand. Epps takes another drag from her cigarette, collecting her winnings.
EPPS: One more?
DODGE: Why not. She gathers the cards, shuffles.
DODGE: What is your first name?
EPPS: It just occurred to me I don't know your first name. All this time and I don't know it. She deals the cards in silence.
DODGE: It just occurred to me I don't know your first name. All this time and I don't know it. She deals the cards in silence.
EPPS: ( finally ) She looks on at him as he holds there, takes his cards.
DODGE: She looks on at him as he holds there, takes his cards.
EPPS: She looks on at him as he holds there, takes his cards.
DODGE: She looks on at him as he holds there, takes his cards.
EPPS: What's yours? Dodge takes a drag from his cigarette, thinking about it.
DODGE: She wants to laugh, but only studies her cards.
EPPS: She wants to laugh, but only studies her cards.
DODGE: She wants to laugh, but only studies her cards.
DODGE: You think that's funny
EPPS: ( lying ) She takes a hit from her cigarette as she plays her hand.
GREER: ( into walkie ) Greer to Murphy. Greer studies the radar display as he waits.
GREER: There's a large vessel out about ten miles to the north-west.
GREER: I been watching it for close to an hour and it hasn't moved. I can't raise it on the radio either. Makes me think it might be in trouble.
MURPHY: Alright. I'll be right up.
MURPHY: This is tugboat Arctic Warrior whiskey alpha sierra bravo four zero niner two. Over. Only the quiet hiss of white noise comes back from the radio speaker as the bright point flashes on the radar screen.
MURPHY: ( to radio ) Merchant vessel at one seven four one five west, five seven seven five north, this is tugboat Arctic Warrior whiskey alpha sierra bravo four zero niner two. Over. Again, only white noise comes back as the point flashes on the screen.
MURPHY: Too deep to anchor out there.
GREER: Looks like it's adrift.
EPPS: Could be a fishing boat.
GREER: Too big. More like a freighter.
MURPHY: What the hell would a freighter be doing up here? It's way out of the lanes. There's not a port for 800 Smugglers maybe.
DODGE: Smugglers maybe.
GREER: Smuggling what? Tundra grass? A beat as Murphy holds there. He raises the radio mic.
MURPHY: Merchant vessel at position one seven four one five west, five seven seven five north, this is tugboat Arctic Warrior. Do you copy? Over. Again, only the quiet hiss of static comes back.
GREER: Call the Coastguard?
MURPHY: Steer to one eight five. Let's check her out.
MURPHY: Alright. Back it off. Greer throttles back and the boat slows.
MURPHY: Hit the lights.
MURPHY: Whoa, whoa. Greer throttles down all the way and they drift, as the shadow looms bigger before them in the light from the boat. As they approach, the shadow appears to be a giant rusting bow, rising up from the water, disappearing in the darkness above them. Murphy sweeps the searchlight to reveal more of what appears to be a large, darkened ship. As they come around, the name "CHIMERA" can be seen above the anchor Murphy reaches for the mic, hits the LOUD HAILER.
MURPHY: Murphy reaches for the mic, hits the LOUD HAILER.
MURPHY: EXT. ARCTIC WARRIOR - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT The tug is dwarfed by the massive rusting hulk of the Chimera rising above it.
MURPHY: Chimera, I am hove to at your port bow. Is there anyone aboard? They wait, looking on at the silent, darkened ship under the glare of their lights.
MURPHY: Epps, come with me. You guys sit EXT. ARCTIC WARRIOR - LATER - NIGHT Epps and Murphy, in heavy parkas, climb a hydraulic deck crane up to the Chimera as Dodge man's the controls against the movement of the water.
GREER: ( into radio ) Talk to me, skipper. After a moment, Murphy comes back on the radio.
MURPHY: We're in a stairwell just under the main superstructure.
MURPHY: This is definitely an old boat, maybe sixty years old. She hasn't been in service for at least twenty years. Probably a lot longer. They top the stairs and walk into a wider passageway which takes them into an open area. Their lights shine around them, revealing sinks and counters and racks of old kitchen equipment, a few pots still hanging. They move through the galley and into another, narrower, INT. ARCTIC WARRIOR - PILOTHOUSE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT Greer and Dodge look on.
MURPHY: It's funny.
GREER: How's that?
MURPHY: Besides a little rust, everything's pretty well-preserved. Greer and Dodge look at each other.
MURPHY: How she got out here is one hell of a good question. Dodge and Greer hold there, waiting. Only silence from the other end.
GREER: What is it? No answer.
GREER: No answer.
GREER: Murphy, goddamit.
MURPHY: ( finally ) Another beat in silence.
GREER: What is it?
MURPHY: It's a passenger ship. It's a damn passenger ship. Though it is dark, there is enough light to see its ornate opulence, tables and chairs in place near a large dance floor and orchestra well, and a magnificent crystal chandelier hanging over it all.
MURPHY: ( jumping down ) There's nobody on that boat.
DODGE: Probably slipped her moorings, got tangled up in a current.
EPPS: Out here? What, so a seven hundred foot passenger liner drifted out of Spokane harbor and nobody managed to bump into her until now?
DODGE: Somebody's probably looking for her as we speak.
MURPHY: Whatever the reason, she's adrift and abandoned. We've got every right to salvage her.
GREER: You mean tow her back? That's a thirty thousand ton ship you're talking We've done it before.
MURPHY: We've done it before.
DODGE: Yeah, from one side of the harbor to the other. But we got half the Bering Sea and the whole Alaskan gulf to drag her over.
MURPHY: You have any idea how much a ship like that could be worth in salvage? The fittings alone could go for a few million.
DODGE: If you get it back in one piece.
MURPHY: It's a risk I'm willing to take.
GREER: All we got to do is hit some rough weather and you can forget about it.
MURPHY: So we cut her loose and wait it out. A little weather couldn't be anything she hasn't seen before.
DODGE: It's a bloody navigation hazard. One boat can't control a ship that The damn thing's been floating around for God knows how long and it hasn't hit anything yet. So we take it easy. A little of the old push pull. A long beat as they hold there.
MURPHY: The damn thing's been floating around for God knows how long and it hasn't hit anything yet. So we take it easy. A little of the old push pull. A long beat as they hold there.
MURPHY: Listen. Forget this job's just a pay check for a minute. You know I've been good to you. But I'm prepared to offer you something better now. If we do this right, it's worth a lot of money. A lot of money. They hold there looking on at him, waiting.
EPPS: Go on.
MURPHY: Salvage fees on a vessel like this could come in around four million bucks. At least. Who knows, could be more. Could be a lot more. What I'm proposing is. we split it four ways. A beat. Dodge looks to Epps and Greer.
MURPHY: Think about it. A million bucks a You want to spend the rest of your days drag-assing tank barges on the gulf coast, fine. Otherwise, let's get to work.
MURPHY: ( to radio ) United States Coastguard, United States Coastguard, United States Coastguard. This is tugboat Arctic Warrior whiskey alpha sierra bravo four zero niner two. Over. After a moment, a distance-warped, coolly professional, female voice comes back.
MURPHY: North Island, I wish to declare myself salvor-in-posession under section four two charlie of the International Maritime Convention.
MURPHY: A passenger liner. Over.
MURPHY: A passenger liner, north island. What is the vessel name, registry, and present position? Over.
MURPHY: Passenger vessel "Chimera." I will spell: charlie hotel india mary echo romeo alpha. No registry information is available at this time. I have determined to the best of my ability that the vessel has been abandoned on the high seas at position one seven four west, five seven north Two zero one four hours zulu time. Affirmative, Arctic Warrior. Please advise your salvage authority pending registry check. Over.
MURPHY: Roger, North Island. Arctic Warrior over and out.
DODGE: Okay. We're gonna use a heavier than usual twin cable rig this time, consisting of a pair of number three gauge braided wire tows. We'll tie off through the anchor alleys. And come down to the aft port and starboard pins. Here. Thus, we need to get two of these. Up there. He indicates the bow of the Chimera.
DODGE: Seeing as though a foot of one of these fuckers weighs about a hundred pounds, it ain't gonna be what you'd call easy. Any questions?
EPPS: Supposing one of those cables breaks under tow.
DODGE: Then we'll all be doomed. Any other EXT. ARCTIC WARRIOR - DAY Murphy has backed the tug up to the bow of the Chimera. Greer operates the deck crane, one of Dodge's mammoth cables dangling from it down to the winch on the stern.
WITH EPPS: Epps hangs on to the top of the crane as it comes to the starboard anchor alley in the bow of the Chimera. Dodge pokes his face out from the other side.
DODGE: Bring it on, dude. Dodge disappears from the hole and his hand comes back with a smaller pilot cable, which Epps takes and threads through the loop at the end of the tow cable. She places the end of the pilot cable in a vice collar and uses a wrench to tighten it down, with the effect of joining the two cables.
EPPS: Bring it on, dude. Dodge disappears from the hole and his hand comes back with a smaller pilot cable, which Epps takes and threads through the loop at the end of the tow cable. She places the end of the pilot cable in a vice collar and uses a wrench to tighten it down, with the effect of joining the two cables.
EPPS: Dodge disappears, pulling up the slack from the pilot cable through the anchor alleys.
EPPS: Dodge? You alright?
DODGE: EXT. ARCTIC WARRIOR - DAY Two tow cables extend from the Chimera's anchor alleys down into the water and come up again from the water to the tow anchor on the tug's stern. Dodge looks on as Greer and Epps stand by. He raises his
DODGE: Alright, skipper, real easy.
DODGE: Steady as she goes.
DODGE: ( into radio ) Throttle back. The tug slows as the cables rise slowly from the water.
DODGE: The tug slows still more.
DODGE: It slows still more, until the tug just creeps along, and the massive tow cables rise entirely out of the water, straightening as the slack is pulled out.
DODGE: Right there, skipper. Right there. Murphy eases forward on the throttle and the turbines rise in pitch.
MURPHY: With a little extra fuel, weather permitting, we should make Sitka in five days without another stop.
DODGE: Sounds reasonable.
GREER: Hypothetically speaking, what if we get this boat to Sitka and find out somebody wants it back?
DODGE: They shoulda thought of that when they let her float away.
GREER: I don't care what, ain't nobody just gonna let us walk away with a ship that size.
MURPHY: The law's on our side. If they want to challenge it, let them try.
EPPS: They must've scuttled it. Nobody just lets a ship float away.
DODGE: Nobody just scuttles a passenger liner either.
EPPS: Ever heard of insurance, big boy?
MURPHY: Either way, we found it. It's ours now . An EXPLOSIVE THUD shudders the boat. They look to each other.
DODGE: ( moving for the door ) What the.
DODGE: ( shouting up to the pilothouse )
DODGE: Mother fucker!
MURPHY: What is it?
DODGE: Threw a turbine blade. Dodge looks over the smoking turbine, pulls back an aluminum intake blade, hot to the touch.
DODGE: Son of a bitch!
DODGE: The number one turbine's pretty well trashed. Number two runs, but it's way underpowered.
MURPHY: How long to fix?
DODGE: Hard to say. I gotta get in there and have a look. At least a couple days. Depending.
GREER: You think the extra strain caused Nah. Everything was cool. It's just one of those things.
DODGE: Nah. Everything was cool. It's just one of those things.
MURPHY: Some classy tub in it's day, huh?
GREER: EPPS ( O.S. ) Check this out.
EPPS: Everything's still here. Ticket records, receipts, books of account. Greer picks one up.
GREER: One first class passage. Elizabeth James. Dubayy to Halifax. January 29th 1953. Murphy takes it, looking it over.
MURPHY: Chimera. Flag ship of the Dobbins Kirk Line. Nova Scotia.
MURPHY: ( looking through scattered charts and papers ) I'd sure like to get my hands on the general log. Epps steps up to the wall, where several framed photos hang.
GREER: That must be the old man right there. The uniformed man in the photo is a gaunt, stern-looking man from another century, with dark, hollow eyes.
EPPS: Looks like one hell of a stick up his ass.
GREER: He'd let you off at the nearest port, that's for sure.
DODGE: How about now?
GREER: Sixty pounds.
DODGE: What? You sure?
GREER: That's what it says.
DODGE: ( geting up to have a look ) Lemme see.
EPPS: ( sitting up ) Yeah. Thanks. She brings him his cup, seeing the documents he brought back from the Chimera.
MURPHY: ( sitting up ) Yeah. Thanks. She brings him his cup, seeing the documents he brought back from the Chimera.
EPPS: ( taking a seat ) What'd you find up there?
MURPHY: Some charts. A crew manifest. Looks like her last voyage was January 1953. The question is where the hell's she been since.
EPPS: She was sailing up north, right?
MURPHY: Her destination was Halifax, yeah.
EPPS: Well, suppose she got a little further north than she should have. Got stuck in the ice. The passengers and crew evacuated. She froze into the ice pack, which moved further north, where it froze in solid. They write it off. Fifty years later, the whole global warming thing happens. The ice melts, she gets loose and floats around til somebody runs into her. Murphy nods, considering it.
MURPHY: As reasonable an explanation as any, I guess. Epps takes a sip of her coffee as she thinks about it.
MURPHY: Ever heard of the Mary Celeste?
EPPS: She was a two-masted brig boat sailing out of New York in 1872. One day she was sighted off the coast of Portugal by a merchant vessel, the Dei Gratia. As the crew of the Dei Gratia got closer, they discovered that no one was at the helm of the Mary Celeste. On boarding, they found her completely deserted. The captain, his wife, their daughter, and the entire crew, all gone. The last entry in their log made no mention of any trouble. The table was even set for dinner. And in the nine days after the last entry, she sailed 700 miles without anyone aboard.
MURPHY: She was a two-masted brig boat sailing out of New York in 1872. One day she was sighted off the coast of Portugal by a merchant vessel, the Dei Gratia. As the crew of the Dei Gratia got closer, they discovered that no one was at the helm of the Mary Celeste. On boarding, they found her completely deserted. The captain, his wife, their daughter, and the entire crew, all gone. The last entry in their log made no mention of any trouble. The table was even set for dinner. And in the nine days after the last entry, she sailed 700 miles without anyone aboard.
EPPS: So what did happen?
MURPHY: Nobody knows. There've been a lot of theories, of course. But we'll never really know for sure.
EPPS: You think she's sailing without a Murphy looks out at the Chimera off the bow.
MURPHY: I think we'd be surprised where a drifting ship might wind up with a little wind and the right current.
EPPS: You're more practical than Only way to be. Epps nods, takes another sip of coffee, looking on at the rusting hull of the Chimera stretching off in the light.
MURPHY: Only way to be. Epps nods, takes another sip of coffee, looking on at the rusting hull of the Chimera stretching off in the light.
MURPHY: What's this?
DODGE: Turbine rotor's shot.
MURPHY: I thought you said it was just a Metal's crystallized. Gotta replace the whole deal.
DODGE: Metal's crystallized. Gotta replace the whole deal.
MURPHY: How much longer's that gonna take?
DODGE: Like I always say
MURPHY: I know I know, two ways to do anything
DODGE: The right way and the wrong way.
MURPHY: But how long?
DODGE: Hard to say.
MURPHY: We gotta get outa here, Dodge. A storm blows up and we're history.
DODGE: I'm telling you, you don't want to be running that fan like it is.
MURPHY: What about running number two by It's a full 2500 horses down. We couldn't drag that boat down hill on ice with it.
DODGE: It's a full 2500 horses down. We couldn't drag that boat down hill on ice with it.
MURPHY: How long, then?
DODGE: I gotta pull the blades and re-seat everything in a new rotor .
MURPHY: How long?
DODGE: Three, four days.
MURPHY: Goddamit, Dodge.
DODGE: What do you want me to tell you, that we can throw this sucker back in and start pulling her like nothing happened? Can't do it, skipper. A beat as Murphy stands there, knowing he's right.
MURPHY: ( to radio ) North Island, North Island, North Island. This is tugboat Arctic Warrior. Over. After a moment, the same professional, distance-warped voice comes back.
MURPHY: North Island, please repeat? Over.
MURPHY: North Island, have you got any additional information? Over.
MURPHY: Roger, North Island. I am tied to the passenger vessel Chimera. And she is afloat. Repeat, she is afloat. Roger, Arctic Warrior. I say again, our records indicate the passenger vessel Chimera was lost at sea. Roger, North Island. Please advise pending further information. Over.
MURPHY: Roger, North Island. Please advise pending further information. Over.
MURPHY: Obviously it's some kind of screw up. The shipping records aren't a hundred percent accurate.
DODGE: Man, it gives me the creeps. We got no business towing a ship that size anyway. I say we fix the turbines and hit the highway.
GREER: Are you crazy? Do you realize we got ourselves a ship? We own a ship, Yeah, a ship that's supposed to have been lost at sea fifty years ago. You don't think that's just a little If this thing turns out to be a ship everybody thought sank a long time ago, we just hit the jackpot.
DODGE: Yeah, a ship that's supposed to have been lost at sea fifty years ago. You don't think that's just a little If this thing turns out to be a ship everybody thought sank a long time ago, we just hit the jackpot.
EPPS: If this thing turns out to be a ship everybody thought sank a long time ago, we just hit the jackpot.
DODGE: Yeah, well how the hell you get something like that wrong? That's a damn big boat. It's either sunk or it ain't.
MURPHY: We all want to get outa here, Dodge. Especially me. With that boat in tow. You got three days. Make the most of it. A beat as Dodge looks back, then out at the Chimera.
DODGE: Take it easy, Dodge. It's only a piece of metal.
GREER: Take it easy, Dodge. It's only a piece of metal.
DODGE: ( inspecting his skinned knuckles ) Damn mind of it's own.
GREER: ( seeing Murphy ) Morning, skipper. Murphy has stepped out into the sunlight.
MURPHY: You're up late.
GREER: You're up late.
MURPHY: Guess I must've fallen back to sleep. Where's Epps?
DODGE: Went aboard.
MURPHY: She take a radio?
GREER: Murphy nods. A beat.
GREER: What the fuck you think we gonna do with it? It's ours, baby. It's all Murphy has stepped forward, taking an ingot, inspecting it.
GREER: How much you figure that's worth, Hard to say. Maybe forty, fifty Ho, baby!
MURPHY: ( still looking it over ) Hard to say. Maybe forty, fifty Ho, baby!
GREER: Ho, baby!
EPPS: That's a lot of money for somebody to just let float away. Murphy looks up at her from the gold.
MURPHY: Yes, it is. A beat as they all hold there.
MURPHY: It's a hell of a lot of money.
DODGE: What, you think there's something funny about it?
MURPHY: A ship with fifty million dollars in gold aboard, adrift? And nobody seems to care enough to come looking for If they thought it was lost at sea, they probably just wrote it off.
GREER: If they thought it was lost at sea, they probably just wrote it off.
MURPHY: Not for fifty million. An ocean liner maybe. But fifty million in gold, they come looking for.
EPPS: Maybe they didn't want it back. Maybe the whole fat deal was insured.
MURPHY: Maybe. But there's always somebody whose interest's at stake.
GREER: All I gotta say is it looks like that somebody's us right now. Greer cackles as he high fives Dodge.
EPPS: And it looks like somebody got here before us too. The steel hatch is twisted, as from a great hand ripping it back from the wall.
DODGE: ( inspecting it ) Didn't happen yesterday, I'll tell you that. Torn parts rusted bad as the rest of the boat.
MURPHY: Then it happened before they scuttled You mean, before she sank.
EPPS: You mean, before she sank.
GREER: Cargo like this could make a crew think twice.
MURPHY: That it could. A beat, as they all look on at the gold.
GREER: Then why didn't they take it.
EPPS: Probably didn't have time.
DODGE: Or somebody stopped them.
MURPHY: Either way, they must've had a pretty good reason.
GREER: Must be a damn good reason to jump ship and leave fifty million dollars A beat as they consider it.
DODGE: So what're we gonna do. That's the big question, right?
MURPHY: A salvage claim to a vessel's cargo's as valid as a claim to the vessel itself. It's ours.
DODGE: Then we're rich. We're damn, filthy stinking rich.
MURPHY: It looks like it. A beat as they let this sink in.
GREER: So what? We gonna unload the gold and get a move on?
MURPHY: We leave it where it is. Stick to the plan.
DODGE: You gotta be kidding? What the hell we need that tub for, we got fifty million bucks?
MURPHY: So we get a little more for the boat. Besides, the gold'll be safer where it is.
GREER: Yeah, but we still gotta haul that big piece of shit all the way back to Sitka.
MURPHY: It's worth the effort. Believe me. Besides we're gonna need her to prove the salvage.
EPPS: Why not call for help?
MURPHY: For now the best thing we can do is to keep quiet about this.
DODGE: Last thing we want is extra partners.
EPPS: Or uninvited guests.
GREER: I heard that.
MURPHY: Dodge, you gotta get on those repairs.
DODGE: Yeah, yeah. I'm on it.
MURPHY: The sooner we get under way, the sooner we are to spending what's INT. ARCTIC WARRIOR - ENGINE ROOM - DAY Dodge, wearing a welding mask and gloves, braises an aluminum fitting over one of the open turbines.
GREER: Two hundred twenty. Two twenty one. Two twenty two. Greer makes a note.
GREER: Two hundred twenty two kilograms of solid gold.
EPPS: That's what I call a payday.
GREER: Hell yeah. They slap hands.
DAY: Murphy steps in. The room is undisturbed, light falling in on the taught green bedspread through dirty, tattered curtains. A robe hangs on the back of a chair. A pair of slippers lie beneath it.
DAY: Murphy stands in the bathroom. The tile has yellowed with time, but everything is exactly as it was left. Even the shaving kit is neatly arrayed on the sink as Murphy looks on at it. He looks up, seeing himself in the mirror, when an
DODGE: ( over the roar ) Murphy looks down to see his pant leg is on fire, as Dodge turns a cloud of halon on him, putting it out.
DODGE: Propane tanks're gonna go! Murphy crosses in the smoke, coming as close as he dares to the most intense part of the flames. He turns the extinguisher into them, holding it there. The flames dim, as Dodge joins him on the other side, turning his extinguisher on it too. The fire seems to dim yet again as clouds of halon rise up. Fire belches from a duct, crawling across the ceiling. Dodge fires his extinguisher at it, pushing it back across to the wall again. Murphy extinguishes the last of the flames in the turbine well as Dodge brings a snaking tendril of fire down to the deck, and finally out. They stand there in the sudden silence, the air heavy with smoke. A fine layer of halon powder lies over everything, but the fire is out.
DODGE: One minute I'm minding my own business, the next thing I know the whole place is burning up. An oxygen tank must've blown on the welder. Started an oil fire.
GREER: Looks like it took out the backup genny too.
MURPHY: Epps arrives with a first aid kit.
MURPHY: How's that leg? Epps cuts back the burned pant leg to see the burn.
DODGE: Seen better Ow! Epps cleans the burn with hydrogen peroxide.
EPPS: This's gonna hurt a little.
DODGE: Thanks for the warning Ow! Damn! Epps keeps cleaning as Dodge bears it.
GREER: What now?
MURPHY: We could call for help.
GREER: And get a bunch of fools sniffin' around here?
EPPS: What other choices have we got?
DODGE: I tell you one thing, we're not gonna be towing no ship now.
MURPHY: ( to radio ) United States Coastguard, this is tugboat Arctic Warrior whiskey alpha sierra bravo four zero niner two. Radio check. Over. A moment, then:
MURPHY: Roger that, North Island. Arctic Warrior whiskey alpha sierra bravo four zero niner two. Over and out.
GREER: Fifty million four ways. That's twelve million and change a piece. What you gonna do with your share, skipper?
MURPHY: Not much at all, I guess. Retire. Live out my golden years and all I'm buyin' me a nice outrigger. Spend my time hauling rich Seattle business men through the Puget.
DODGE: I'm buyin' me a nice outrigger. Spend my time hauling rich Seattle business men through the Puget.
MURPHY: How about you Epps?
EPPS: Guess I'll just keep working.
DODGE: What're you crazy?
EPPS: I like my job.
MURPHY: Moving to Sweden.
GREER: Moving to Sweden.
DODGE: What's so great about Sweden?
GREER: It's a beautiful country. Very clean. Very civilized. And cold.
EPPS: That's a good thing?
GREER: Hell, yeah. I like it cold. Colder the better.
DODGE: Yeah, but not as cold as those Swedish girls you only gonna dream about.
GREER: We'll see who's dreamin', m'man.
MURPHY: Dreamin's all any of you're gonna be doing if we don't get this boat Yeah, yeah.
DODGE: Yeah, yeah.
GREER: What the hell is that? The SHRIEKING CONTINUES, ECHOING EERILY AS IF FROM THE SEA.
EPPS: It's coming from inside. They hold there listening as the SHRIEKING CONTINUES.
DODGE: Sounds like the hull.
MURPHY: Warm water current maybe, making the metal expand.
GREER: That shit is seriously bizarre. The DISTANT SHRIEKING ECHO continues as they hold there.
EPPS: Epps moves off as the man walks around the corner.
EPPS: Hey, wait a minute! Hey! MOVING WITH Epps as she breaks into a run, going down the passageway. She comes to the corner, rounding it out onto another passageway. The man is nowhere to be seen. Epps moves quickly down the passageway, coming to the next corner, rounding it out to see only another long passageway. She turns back, running right into Murphy.
MURPHY: Take it easy, you'll live longer.
EPPS: Did you see him?
MURPHY: The guy. He just came this way.
EPPS: The guy. He just came this way.
MURPHY: What guy?
EPPS: There's somebody else on this boat.
MURPHY: What? What the hell're you talking I saw him. Just a minute ago. Some Are you sure?
EPPS: I saw him. Just a minute ago. Some Are you sure?
MURPHY: Are you sure?
EPPS: Of course I'm sure. I saw him.
MURPHY: You sure it wasn't me?
EPPS: It wasn't you. It was somebody else. There's somebody else aboard. A beat as Murphy looks back at her.
DODGE: Light in those passages ain't so I'm telling you, I saw somebody. I don't know who it was. But I saw What'd he look like?
EPPS: I'm telling you, I saw somebody. I don't know who it was. But I saw What'd he look like?
GREER: What'd he look like?
EPPS: Maybe six feet. Lanky. I didn't get a good look. He was far away. But I saw him. I saw him as sure as you're standing there.
DODGE: Where's his boat, then? Where's his crew? He ain't gonna be out here by himself, that's for damn sure.
GREER: She's so big somebody could come alongside her on the other side and we'd never know it.
EPPS: Maybe that is his boat.
DODGE: Gimme a break. A beat as they sit in silence.
MURPHY: If somebody's aboard her already, she ain't ours. She's theirs.
DODGE: Bullshit. That boat hasn't made steam for fifty years. We found her. She's Not in the eyes of the law.
MURPHY: Not in the eyes of the law.
EPPS: So, we find this guy and make a deal with him.
MURPHY: We don't exactly have the best bargaining position.
DODGE: I say fuck the motherfucker. We're a professional salvage crew going about our business. What's some yahoo doing way out here by himself anyway?
MURPHY: And what do you propose? That we knock this guy off?
DODGE: Why not? Why the fuck not? A beat as Murphy, Greer and Epps exchange looks.
DODGE: Fifty million dollars. Fifty million. We gonna let this guy just take it from us? One guy?
EPPS: So we kill him?
DODGE: I'm saying we gotta do whatever we gotta do to preserve our interest.
GREER: I don't know.
MURPHY: Let's just take it easy here, alright? Nobody's gonna kill anybody.
GREER: Supposing he wants to get bad with One guy isn't gonna be so stupid.
DODGE: One guy isn't gonna be so stupid.
EPPS: Maybe he isn't alone. They consider this a moment.
GREER: I say we off-load some of that gold Would you hold on just a minute here, please? Look, there's no reason to panic now. Epps saw somebody. Fine. It's a big boat. Chances're real good he doesn't even know about the gold. If we stay cool, nobody'll be the wiser. The gold stays where it is til we're ready to go. Like I said, it'll be a hell of a lot safer there than here.
MURPHY: Would you hold on just a minute here, please? Look, there's no reason to panic now. Epps saw somebody. Fine. It's a big boat. Chances're real good he doesn't even know about the gold. If we stay cool, nobody'll be the wiser. The gold stays where it is til we're ready to go. Like I said, it'll be a hell of a lot safer there than here.
DODGE: What if that fucker finds it before we're ready to go?
MURPHY: We'll stand a watch. Four on, eight off. Low man first.
EPPS: Guess that'd be me. Again.
MURPHY: Dodge, get on that turbine. I don't care if you don't sleep for a week. The sooner you're done, the sooner we can get out of here. How's the food situation?
GREER: Pretty low all around.
MURPHY: We'll have to take it easy then. I don't think we'll find much aboard the ship, but it's probably worth looking around.
EPPS: Say we run into this guy again. A beat as they consider this.
MURPHY: If he's reasonable, maybe we can make some kind of deal. If not. We'll have to re-consider our options.
DODGE: Yeah, reconsider fucking his shit INT. ARCTIC WARRIOR - WARD LOCKER - NIGHT Epps is dressed in her cold weather gear as she opens a locker, revealing a flare gun and a shotgun. Epps pulls back the shotgun and a box of shells.
DODGE: Pretty handy with that scatter gun, Epps. You raised on a farm?
EPPS: ( setting the safety ) Seen a lota movies.
MURPHY: No cowboy shit up there, understand?
EPPS: No cowboy shit. Right. Greer extends a thermos to Epps.
GREER: ( pocketing it in her coat ) You're a pal. She checks the squelch on her radio, pockets it too.
EPPS: ( pocketing it in her coat ) You're a pal. She checks the squelch on her radio, pockets it too.
MURPHY: Got your light?
EPPS: Oh yeah. Her bravado does little to hide her apprehension as she slings the shotgun on her back.
DODGE: Oh yeah. Her bravado does little to hide her apprehension as she slings the shotgun on her back.
EPPS: Oh yeah. Her bravado does little to hide her apprehension as she slings the shotgun on her back.
EPPS: See you boys later. Don't be late, I need my beauty rest. She looks up, climbs onto the crane and up toward the darkened ship above them.
MURPHY: Murphy to Epps. She settles back, exhausted.
MURPHY: Murphy to Epps.
EPPS: ( taking her radio ) You just shoot at something?
MURPHY: You just shoot at something?
EPPS: Yeah. Just a bird. Just a stupid She wipes her brow on her sleeve, holding there a moment, when she smells something really awful. She steps forward, following the smell, pushing aside the toppled oil drums to see an unidentifiable form in the beam of her flashlight. She steps still closer, training her light on the form to see that it is a human torso. A large gash runs up its middle and the clothing has been torn by scavenging birds. She hesitates, then steps still closer when she steps on something. She starts, then shines the light on the deck in front of her where the body's decaying head looks back with wide, unseeing eyes. It takes everything she has just to hold there. She shines her light back to the headless torso. She shines her light beyond that, and up, to reveal a bent steam pipe hanging out over the deck, stained with dried blood, a pair of legs dangling from the pipe when, just behind her, a booted foot comes into frame, lightly touching her. She spins around to see another body above her. Except this one hangs in one piece, suspended from another bent steam pipe. It has been impaled length-wise on the pipe from rectum to mouth. One of its arms has rotted off and lies on the deck below it. A few feet away, a third body hangs impaled from another bent pipe.
MURPHY: Bodies're too fresh.
DODGE: Fresh ain't the first word that comes to mind. Murphy checks the pockets, finding a wallet. He looks through Greek citizen. Merchant navy. Obviously we aren't the first to come across this ship. They probably stumbled across it just like we did.
MURPHY: Greek citizen. Merchant navy. Obviously we aren't the first to come across this ship. They probably stumbled across it just like we did.
GREER: And look what happened.
DODGE: Damn barbaric is what it is.
MURPHY: Could be meant as a warning.
GREER: Stay away. Or else.
EPPS: Because of the gold.
MURPHY: That'd be my guess.
DODGE: So whoever did this might still be Maybe Epps's mystery man had something to do with it.
GREER: Maybe Epps's mystery man had something to do with it.
MURPHY: A beat as they consider the implications of this.
EPPS: So, what? We report this? Call the Another beat as they hold there.
DODGE: Let's not be too hasty.
GREER: Yeah. Hell, what difference does it make if we report it now or later? We call this in now, gonna be Coastguard, FBI, who knows who, all over the place. A beat as nobody's too sure about this.
MURPHY: Dodge, if this isn't incentive enough to fix that boat, I don't know what INT. ARCTIC WARRIOR - ENGINE ROOM - DAY Dodge fires up a compressor, which feebly comes to life, turning over the turbine, then sputtering out in a cloud of All the seals and gaskets're shot. Anything that was rubber burned up. Murphy stands at the doorway, looking on.
DODGE: All the seals and gaskets're shot. Anything that was rubber burned up. Murphy stands at the doorway, looking on.
MURPHY: Can't you use something else?
DODGE: I might be able to find something on the ship. But it's gonna take time.
MURPHY: Do what you need to do. Just do it INT. CHIMERA - CREW QUARTERS - DAY Epps sleeps in her bunk.
DODGE: INT. CHIMERA - CREW QUARTERS - DAY Epps sleeps in her bunk.
DODGE: I need lag bolts, especially one inch standard. And sheet metal. Preferably steel, about a sixteenth of an inch. Aluminium, even tin'll I ain't no mechanic, just so you You find anything that even looks like a compressor. I don't care what, grab it.
GREER: I ain't no mechanic, just so you You find anything that even looks like a compressor. I don't care what, grab it.
DODGE: You find anything that even looks like a compressor. I don't care what, grab it.
GREER: A beat as he inspects his hand. In the silence A DISTANT SHRIEK SOUNDS, maybe metal against metal or maybe human, somewhere in the ship. He holds there, listening.
GREER: He moves on, shinning his light as he goes.
GREER: INT. CHIMERA - PASSAGEWAY - MOMENTS LATER - DAY Greer walks up a stairway, stepping into a darkened passageway. The SHRIEKING SOUNDS, THIS TIME CLOSER, as it echoes through the ship. He stops, holding there to listen.
MURPHY: Captain relieved of command. He holds there a moment, moving his finger down to the final entry, reading: "TRANSMISSION 2 Feb 53 21:24 hrs GMT. General
SOS.": He turns the page to see only the words "GOD SAVE US" scrawled in faded red ink. A beat as he holds there, when a CHANNEL OPENS WITH A SHORT BURST ON MURPHY'S RADIO. He looks to it, but there is no response from the other end. Another SHORT BURST AND THE CHANNEL OPENS AGAIN. This time it remains open, but no one says anything on the other end, UNTIL THE CHANNEL
MURPHY: This is Murphy. Anybody trying to call me? Over. He waits as no response comes, then THE CHANNEL OPENS AGAIN. Only silence from the other end as someone seems to be there, but is not saying anything. Murphy presses the talk button.
MURPHY: Greer? Dodge? Again, there is no response, until the CHANNEL OPENS. Murphy holds there as he is answered by silence, WHEN A GRAVELLY,
MURPHY: Who is this? The RADIO CHANNEL OPENS. Only silence comes back, as if someone were there but not speaking.
MURPHY: Who is this!! The CAMERA PUSHES IN AS MURPHY LISTENS.
VOICE: Penny whistle toy. Penny whistle toy. Penny whistle toy. Penny whistle The CHANNEL CLOSES as the CAMERA STOPS CLOSE ON MURPHY. Murphy squeezes the talk button.
MURPHY: Greer! Dodge! Only silence comes back from the radio when A MAN'S BLOOD CURDLING SCREAM sounds from somewhere in the ship.
DODGE: Dodge to Murphy.
MURPHY: ( taking radio ) You better get down here quick, skipper. I'm on "C" deck. Cabin 400.
DODGE: You better get down here quick, skipper. I'm on "C" deck. Cabin 400.
MURPHY: What is it?
DODGE: I think you better see this for INT. CHIMERA - STAIRWAY/PASSAGEWAY - MOMENTS LATER - DAY Murphy comes down the stairs and into the passageway we saw Greer in earlier. At the end, the light from the cabin falls from the open door as he approaches.
DODGE: I found him like this. Greer is lying supine on the floor. His legs are rigid and his trunk is extended. His arms are flexed and twisted so that the palms are facing away, fingers splayed, wrists quaking over his chest as they fight to touch each other. Murphy kneels beside him. Greer's eyelids are half closed, his eyes rolled up into his head. His jaw is clenched, face contorted in a bizarre grimace. And he speaks, uttering nonsense words in harsh expulsions, as though speaking in INT. ARCTIC WARRIOR - CREW QUARTERS - DAY AN EYE - EXTREMELY CLOSE As a light shines in it, the pupil is fixed and dilated.
GREER: INT. ARCTIC WARRIOR - CREW QUARTERS - DAY AN EYE - EXTREMELY CLOSE As a light shines in it, the pupil is fixed and dilated.
EPPS: I'm no doctor. But I'd say he's in a A what?
DODGE: A what?
EPPS: I don't know what else you'd call it. He's breathing on his own, but his pupils are completely blown out. He's totally unresponsive to pain. What happened up there?
DODGE: I heard a scream. When I got there I found him on the floor. He was having some kind of seizure. I didn't see anybody else.
MURPHY: He must've seen something. A beat as they consider this.
EPPS: Other than the obvious, there's nothing wrong with him that I can see, not on the outside.
DODGE: Then what the hell happened to him? Another beat as they hold there.
MURPHY: Just before I heard him yell there was somebody on the radio.
EPPS: I don't know. No. Not Greer. Another long beat as they think about this.
MURPHY: I don't know. No. Not Greer. Another long beat as they think about this.
MURPHY: It was a man's voice. Repeating some sort of children's rhyme. I don't know, it didn't make any sense. You didn't hear it?
DODGE: Not me. Another beat as this sinks in.
EPPS: ( looking to Greer ) He needs a doctor.
MURPHY: I'll call us in. Dodge, see how many signal flares you can scrounge up. Keep an eye on him.
MURPHY: ( to radio ) United States Coastguard, United States Coastguard, United States Coastguard. This is tugboat Arctic Warrior whiskey alpha sierra bravo four zero niner two. Over. No response.
MURPHY: ( to radio ) United States Coastguard, United States Coastguard, United States Coastguard. This is tugboat Arctic Warrior whiskey alpha sierra bravo four zero niner two. Over. Again, no response. He holds there, then finally:
MURPHY: ( to radio ) Mayday. Mayday. Mayday. To any vessel. This is Arctic Warrior. Arctic Warrior. Arctic Warrior. Whiskey alpha sierra bravo four zero niner two. Last known position one seven four west, five seven north. I am afloat and drifting. Require immediate medical assistance for one person, possibly comatose. I am a one hundred twenty foot civilian tug, hove to at port bow of disabled passenger liner Chimera. I repeat, Chimera. Over. Only the desolate WHITE NOISE OF EMPTY AIR COMES BACK.
MURPHY: How's he doing?
EPPS: Same. Any luck?
MURPHY: No. I'll try again later. A beat as they look on at Greer.
EPPS: ( reading it ) They're dead in the water that morning. Four hours later the captain's relieved of his command. And that evening they issue a general
MURPHY: Possibly false. Hence the IMA record of being lost at sea. I don't think mutiny's out of the question here.
DODGE: ( taking a seat ) On a passenger ship in 1953?
MURPHY: If they knew what they were carrying.
EPPS: You're saying they mutinied for the If they were close enough to shore, they probably figured they could get away in the lifeboats.
MURPHY: If they were close enough to shore, they probably figured they could get away in the lifeboats.
EPPS: Only something must've gone wrong.
DODGE: Yeah, way wrong. A beat as they consider it.
DODGE: So. I got a question. Just from a, you know, purely technical standpoint. We call the Coastguard. Coastguard shows up. What exactly is the plan?
MURPHY: How do you mean?
DODGE: Well, they're gonna be asking a lot of questions. About us. About those bodies. About the gold. Seems like we oughta be prepared is all.
MURPHY: I guess the best strategy's just to tell them the truth.
DODGE: Yeah, well. The truth is one thing. When there's more than a few hundred million dollars involved, that's a whole new deal.
MURPHY: What do you propose?
DODGE: For starters, getting that gold off the ship. What they don't know about isn't gonna bother them. A beat as Murphy holds there.
MURPHY: There's no way we're gonna hide a few thousand pounds of gold from the Coastguard here. Besides, it'll be safer where it is.
DODGE: With all due respect, skipper. Part of that up there's mine. I'd kinda like to have a little say in what happens to it. A beat as Murphy looks on.
MURPHY: Tell you what, Dodge. Once we get back to shore, you can do whatever you want with your share. But until then, the gold stays right where it Dodge holds there. He looks to Epps a beat, takes a drink of EXT. CHIMERA - DAY The sun comes up over a spectacular cloud bank as the Arctic Warrior drifts alongside the Chimera.
MURPHY: Just what the hell do you think you're I don't know what you're talking I think you know.
DODGE: I don't know what you're talking I think you know.
MURPHY: I think you know.
DODGE: Maybe you can tell me then. Murphy shoves him hard into the wall.
MURPHY: The radio!
DODGE: ( not having a clue ) The radio. Oh, yeah, the radio. Murphy tightens his grip.
DODGE: Take it easy, willya? What about the You smashed it!
MURPHY: You smashed it!
DODGE: Don't lie to me!
MURPHY: Don't lie to me!
DODGE: What the fuck ?
MURPHY: You didn't want us calling anybody. Too liable to ruin your big payday.
DODGE: I didn't touch the fucking radio. Murphy tightens his grip still more.
DODGE: I didn't touch the fucking radio! Ever occur to you there's somebody else on that boat, skipper?
MURPHY: Conveniently enough for you.
DODGE: Look, I didn't touch it. Alright? Murphy holds there a beat longer. He shoves Dodge back letting him go.
DODGE: Dodge checks his throat as Murphy looks on.
EPPS: It's Greer.
GREER: Never been more thirsty in my life.
MURPHY: Drink up then. Greer smiles, raising the jug to drink as the others take a seat, looking on at him.
MURPHY: How're you feeling?
GREER: Lost my sea legs.
EPPS: Any dizziness?
GREER: Headache, nausea, lights?
EPPS: Headache, nausea, lights?
GREER: Sudden flashes of light.
EPPS: Sudden flashes of light.
GREER: I feel fine.
DODGE: What day is it?
GREER: I don't know. Tuesday?
DODGE: Wrong. It's Friday.
EPPS: Try Wednesday.
DODGE: Right. Wednesday. A beat as they all hold there. Greer takes a seat.
GREER: What happened?
MURPHY: You don't remember?
GREER: Last thing I remember I was aboard the Chimera. Down somewhere in there scavenging around.
MURPHY: You've been out for about a day.
GREER: Say what?
MURPHY: Dodge found you out cold in one of the cabins. Greer only holds there.
GREER: Oh, man.
MURPHY: We heard you scream. Any idea what you might've seen?
GREER: I wish I could tell you. I'd be real interested to know myself. Another beat as they hold there, as Greer takes another drink of water.
MURPHY: The ah. the radio's out.
EPPS: Somebody took it out of commission last night. A beat as they all hold there.
MURPHY: Somebody took it out of commission last night. A beat as they all hold there.
MURPHY: Smashed it up pretty bad.
EPPS: But, who ?
DODGE: The skipper seems to think I did it. That I'm more interested in that gold than my own safety or the safety of my fellow shipmates. A beat as they hold there, as Murphy looks back.
EPPS: Did you?
DODGE: Hell no. You think I'm crazy? Another beat as they hold there.
MURPHY: Regardless of how it happened, there isn't much of a chance to fix it. The odds of another vessel in range of the walkie-talkies are almost astronomical. So, as of today, we're pretty much on our own out here.
WITH EPPS: A tattered, bound book lies in the refuse of a forgotten corner. Epps picks it up. The cover has been ripped off and the pages are torn. But, as she looks through it, she sees that it is the ship's log.
EPPS: Murphy steps over as she pages through the log book to the very end. The last pages have been ripped out.
EPPS: Looks like part of the general log. Epps points to a page that has been incompletely ripped out.
EPPS: "The crew have gone mad with greed and fight among themselves like wild dogs over fresh kill."
MURPHY: February first.
EPPS: The same day she supposedly went Must not've been the captain's entry. He was probably out of the picture by then. Epps continues to read.
MURPHY: Must not've been the captain's entry. He was probably out of the picture by then. Epps continues to read.
EPPS: "Their lacking diligence has undoubtedly caused the collision. Distress calls have been made."
MURPHY: Collision? With what?
EPPS: The page's missing. Then their SOS was real.
MURPHY: But where's the damage?
EPPS: Maybe the other ship took the worst of it.
MURPHY: If it was a ship she hit. A beat as they hold there, when his radio CRACKLES TO LIFE.
DODGE: Dodge to Murphy! Murphy reaches down for his radio.
MURPHY: ( to radio ) You better get down here right now! We're taking water! Big time!
DODGE: You better get down here right now! We're taking water! Big time!
MURPHY: What the hell happened!
DODGE: Turbine chamber on number two must've blown! Took out part of the hull!
GREER: We're not gonna be able to pump it!
MURPHY: Alright. Everybody grab your gear! This' is where we get off!
MURPHY: INT. ARCTIC WARRIOR - CREW QUARTERS - CONTINUOUS - DAY Water is starting to pour in as the entire cabin lurches to one side. Dodge wades through toward the door.
WITH DODGE: Dodge stumbles toward the bow, slipping on the wet deck. He goes down, sliding into the water that washes over the starboard rail. He pulls himself up, using a cleat to push off. A deck locker opens and the contents tumble around him. He struggles to pull himself up to the base of the pilothouse. He climbs up and edges his way toward the bow.
WITH DODGE: The tug is slowly lurching over as Dodge climbs the crane, the top of which is sweeping away from the Chimera. Below, the decks of the tug are swept with seawater as it sinks lower and lower.
WITH DODGE: As Dodge makes his way up, he's forced to climb onto the other side of the crane to keep from dangling over the water. Above, Greer casts a line. It falls near, but out of reach as the swell of the water starts to swing the crane to and fro. Dodge reaches out for the line again, his hand coming close but not close enough. The swell brings the crane toward the boat one last time and Dodge reaches out, his fingers just coming to the line, coaxing it into his grasp. He pulls it back and hangs on, as the crane sways back with the foundering boat. The crane falls away from Dodge, leaving him hanging in space by the line from the bow of the Chimera.
WITH DODGE: As he pulls himself upward, coming to the bottom of the rail well on the Chimera where Murphy reaches out, just short of Dodge's hand. A SCREECHING SOUNDS and they turn to see the twin tow cables coming taught against the hull in the anchor alley's of the Chimera as the sinking tug pulls them tight. With a CONCUSSIVE STRIKE, one cable is freed, snapping against the Chimera's hull like a giant steel guitar string. It starts sliding along the hull as the tug drifts, pulling the cable with it, toward Dodge as he dangles in mid air. Dodge pulls himself up, reaching for Murphy, but still short. A LOUD HISSING SOUNDS and Dodge turns to see misty air escaping from ports and deck vents as the encroaching water forces it out of the tug below decks. The tow cable LOUDLY SCRAPES THE HULL in a shower of rust, as Dodge struggles to pull himself up. Murphy reaches out as Dodge extends as far as he can, their hands barely reaching. The tow cable is a mere few feet away and closing, ready to scrape Dodge into the water or smear him across the hull like a bug on a windshield, when Dodge pulls himself up with everything he's got and Murphy grabs his hand. Murphy pulls, lifting Dodge, as Greer grabs Dodge's other hand and they pull him up, the tow cable sweeping by with a
GREER: Rotten stem to stern. Guess you couldn't expect much else. Greer jumps down as Murphy, Dodge, and Epps look on.
GREER: We ain't exactly in what you'd call your high traffic neighborhood either.
MURPHY: The coast guard has our last position. They'll send somebody out soon enough. A ship this size you can't exactly It's a good bet they'll be asking a lot of questions when they get here Let 'em ask. This ship's legally ours now.
EPPS: It's a good bet they'll be asking a lot of questions when they get here Let 'em ask. This ship's legally ours now.
MURPHY: Let 'em ask. This ship's legally ours now.
DODGE: When they find out what it's carrying, they may not be so interested in what's legal.
GREER: Maybe you shoulda thought a that before you scuttled our boat. Dodge turns to see Greer. A beat.
DODGE: The turbine blew.
GREER: Lemme see, was that before or after the oil fire? A beat. Dodge takes a swing at Greer.
MURPHY: ( grabbing Dodge ) Easy, easy. Murphy holds on to Dodge as he will have none of it.
GREER: Gettin' a little hot under the collar, I'd say.
MURPHY: Shut up.
GREER: Must be a little too the truth, eh Dodge jumps forward again, but Murphy hangs on.
MURPHY: I said, shut the hell up. Murphy shoves Dodge back.
MURPHY: Both of you. I don't want to hear it A beat as Greer and Murphy hold there.
MURPHY: So just stow it. You understand? We don't need this right now.
DODGE: Just wanted to check on our little A beat as they look on at the gold.
DODGE: That oughta buy a man pretty much anything he wants.
MURPHY: If money can buy what he wants.
DODGE: I don't figure there's much I want money can't buy.
MURPHY: Then you're a lucky man. Murphy tosses the shotgun to Dodge, who catches it.
MURPHY: We'll stand the watch on deck tonight. You're up first.
DODGE: Murphy holds there a beat longer, then turns to go, as Dodge looks after him.
EPPS: No one answers. She looks off across the stillness of the galley. Nothing.
GIRL: You must leave. A beat as Epps stands there.
EPPS: ( finally ) Who are you? From this distance and in the light it is hard to fully discern the girl's features.
GIRL: There's great evil here, more than you can know. Leave now or you may never leave.
EPPS: A HATCH CLOSES SOMEWHERE IN THE SHIP. Epps turns to look. When she turns back the girl is gone. A quiet "TICK" SOUND ECHOES in the pool. She looks down to see that the pool is now very, very deep, like a mine shaft falling away into the depths. And, as she stands there, dark water is quickly rising up from the bottom. She steps back as the water gradually fills the pool to the top. It is very dark and the bottom is indiscernible, when the water begins to churn, as from bubbles of air reaching the surface. Epps steps closer, looking on as a faint red glow can be seen deep in the water below the churning bubbles. As she watches, the red glow grows in intensity. The glow spreads, illuminating a broad area until it becomes clear that the water is not water at all but blood. And, as the light grows still brighter, a figure is illuminated, well below the surface as it seems to rise up. Epps looks on as the figure rises higher into the light. It is a MAN, fighting desperately to reach the surface. The bubbles that rise up are produced from his silent screams. Epps starts forward, but another figure rises to the same point, a WOMAN, also struggling. Another MAN floats up, then another, and another, people floating up, fighting desperately to reach the surface, unable to do so, drowning in blood.
EPPS: My God.. Epps reaches out over the edge, plunging her hand into the blood, reaching for the man's hand, but they are too far She struggles desperately as the man fights to get to the The others are fighting for the surface too, as Epps reaches out, near tears, helpless to do anything.
EPPS: Everything suddenly stops. A beat as Epps only holds there. The blood is gone, as are the people. The pool is back to its normal state as though nothing had happened, Epps looking on in disbelief.
EPPS: ( looking back to the pool ) Yeah, fine. A beat as she holds there, looking on at the pool.
DODGE: You'd think on a ship this size there'd be something left to eat.
GREER: After fifty years there ain't nothin' left but shoe leather.
MURPHY: Tomorrow we'll see if we can't find some line and tackle. Use some of those bodies below decks for bait.
DODGE: There's a charming thought.
GREER: We can always start shooting birds. Epps coaxes a hit out of her last cigarette.
DODGE: What say, Epps? You up for some roasted albatross?
EPPS: ( snuffing it out ) Why not?
GREER: Looks like we're in a strong current. Must be making almost five knots full on ass backwards. Greer crosses to the window, stepping up.
GREER: Nasty little swell outa the north west too. Murphy nods as he looks out.
MURPHY: Let's just hope somebody sees us first out here.
"ACCOMPANIED CHILDREN.": She pulls out the folder, laying it on the counter, opening it. The first page is a receipt for a single passage to Halifax for a Tatterly, Stephen age: 14. She pulls it back to reveal another, Wilson, Harold age: 4. Another, Vitti, Angela age: 17. She pages through the stack, looking at the ages: 3, 15, 6, 11, 1, until coming across a 9. She looks to the name, Klein, David, a boy. She continues paging through the receipts coming to another 9. She stops, looking to the name, Nichols, Katherine age: 16. A girl. She looks to the cabin assignment: "400." She notes that it is the same cabin where Greer was found, when a REVERBERANT CONCUSSION SOUNDS THROUGH THE SHIP.
MURPHY: It's a Noaa buoy.
GREER: A what?
MURPHY: Government weather. It's got a transmitter aboard.
MURPHY: Let's go, let's go, let's go. Dodge finishes as Epps ties the other end off to a cleat.
EPPS: Higher. You're gonna miss it. Murphy holds the loop steady.
GREER: We're still drifting.
MURPHY: The mooring hasn't come taught.
EPPS: It's not gonna hold us.
MURPHY: Doesn't matter.
DODGE: No fucking way.
MURPHY: Damn it. They look on in silence, the buoy slowly receding as the ship drifts away.
EPPS: Couldn't sleep.
MURPHY: Couldn't sleep.
EPPS: Couldn't sleep.
MURPHY: Wish I could say the same. They watch the fire in silence for a moment.
EPPS: What do you think happened on this I guess that's the sixty four thousand dollar question, isn't it?
MURPHY: I guess that's the sixty four thousand dollar question, isn't it?
EPPS: The what?
MURPHY: Never mind. Before your time. I think at least some of the crew went a little nuts. The usual stuff that happens when people stumble on a fortune. Equal parts greed and paranoia, usually resulting in homicide. What happened after that is anybody's guess. But, judging by our Greek friends down below, it doesn't look like the last time.
EPPS: Are we smart enough to avoid that?
MURPHY: I don't know, are we? A beat as she looks back at him. She looks back to the fire, watching it.
EPPS: When you found me yesterday, at the pool. I'd seen. something. Someone.
MURPHY: Not our mystery guest again.
EPPS: No. Someone else. A girl. I'm not sure she was. real. She looks up to Murphy.
MURPHY: Not real? A beat as she only looks back.
MURPHY: What, like some kind of ghost?
EPPS: I don't know what else you'd call her. One second she was there, the next she was gone. Another beat as he looks on at her.
EPPS: And I had a kind of hallucination. There were others. I saw them in the pool. Drowning. A beat as Murphy looks back, as she sees him.
EPPS: Maybe hallucination is the wrong word. It was more than that. As though they were showing me.
MURPHY: Showing you what?
EPPS: What happened.
MURPHY: Maybe it was one of them did the handy work on those Greeks.
EPPS: No. I think they are, were, just passengers. Innocent victims.
MURPHY: Victims of what?
EPPS: Something bad happened here, Murphy.
MURPHY: That much I think we've already More than just a mutiny. More than just the gold. A beat as he holds there.
EPPS: More than just a mutiny. More than just the gold. A beat as he holds there.
EPPS: She said the ship was evil. That we had to leave right away. That if we didn't, we might never leave.
MURPHY: What's that supposed to mean?
EPPS: I don't know. A beat as she looks back.
MURPHY: Why you? How come the rest of us haven't seen these people?
EPPS: Just lucky I guess. Another beat as he holds on her.
MURPHY: Well. Getting off this ship's exactly what we're trying to do. Short of that, I don't know what else to tell She only looks back at him, then into the fire.
MURPHY: Do me a favor and wake up Dodge. He's next on. She starts to get up.
MURPHY: And Epps? She stands, looking back at him.
MURPHY: You can tell the others about this. But, for my money, I think it's best you keep it to yourself. She holds there a beat longer, then turns, walking off.
EPPS: ( no answer, knocking again ) ( finally, from inside ) Get up.
EPPS: Get up.
MURPHY: You're late.
DODGE: ( handing him the shotgun ) Don't fall asleep.
MURPHY: ( handing him the shotgun ) Don't fall asleep.
DODGE: ( laying out his blanket ) INT. CHIMERA - 1ST OFFICER'S STATEROOM - NIGHT Greer lies asleep on the bed. But his sleep is fitful, increasingly agitated, tormented. It is as if he tries to speak, but cannot. As THE CAMERA PUSHES SLOWLY IN, his words are forced and garbled, speaking in the same nonsensical language he spoke earlier, when he wakes with a start.
DODGE: SOMEONE'S POV - FROM THE FAR END SLOWLY MOVING TOWARD DODGE as he can be seen from the other end of the passageway.
DODGE: This is Dodge. Over. He is answered by silence, the CHANNEL REMAINING OPEN, WHEN
VOICE: "Cock-a-doodle-doo," said the rooster to the crow. "Where are you now? I know but won't say so." Dodge hits the talk button.
DODGE: Who is this? The RADIO CHANNEL OPENS, but only silence comes back.
DODGE: Identify yourself, motherfucker!
VOICE: Penny whistle toy. Penny whistle THE CAMERA PUSHES SLOWLY IN ON DODGE as he listens.
VOICE: Penny whistle toy. Penny whistle toy
ON SHOTGUN: As the shotgun clatters to the deck, the muzzle resting in frame as the radio falls a few feet away. A beat. The shotgun muzzle slides out of frame as some unseen person or thing pulls it away.
MURPHY: INT. CHIMERA - GALLEY STORAGE COMPARTMENT - DAY Epps shines her light on something.
EPPS: Check it out. Greer raises his light to reveal rows of canned goods. They are industrial sized cans, from the 1950s. Greer takes one.
GREER: I don't even want to know what that's gonna taste like now.
EPPS: Better than starving to death. Epps' radio CRACKLES AWAKE.
MURPHY: Murphy to Epps.
EPPS: ( raising the radio ) Epps, over.
MURPHY: Either of you seen Dodge? She looks to Greer who shakes his head.
EPPS: He's not on deck and I can't raise him on the radio.
MURPHY: He's not on deck and I can't raise him on the radio.
MURPHY: He took the shotgun and a light.
GREER: Must've heard something below deck and went down to check it out. A beat as they hold there.
MURPHY: Alright. We stay together. Nobody goes any further than earshot.
MURPHY: ( into radio ) Murphy to Dodge. Murphy to Dodge. INT. CHIMERA - PASSAGEWAY - CONTINUOUS - DAY Dodge's radio lies in the detritus of the ship as Murphy's voice can be heard on it.
MURPHY: Murphy to Dodge. Do you copy? Over.
EPPS: Right here.
WITH MURPHY: As he moves along as well, eyes open.
MURPHY: WITH GREER As Greer moves along too.
WITH GREER: As Greer moves along too.
GREER: Yeah, yeah.
EPPS: No response as Epps holds there. The WHISPERING SOUNDS AGAIN, far off, unintelligible. It stops. She moves on, shinning her light.
GREER: Sorry. Didn't mean to scare you. She holds there a beat, looking around.
GREER: You okay?
EPPS: Yeah. Fine. I just thought I heard something is all.
GREER: Nothing. Let's get outa here. They start to leave, when Epps notices something. She stops. Beyond the standpipes, a faint glow can be seen in the darkness. Epps steps forward, crossing to it. Greer follows.
EPPS: Nothing. Let's get outa here. They start to leave, when Epps notices something. She stops. Beyond the standpipes, a faint glow can be seen in the darkness. Epps steps forward, crossing to it. Greer follows.
GREER: Can't find the shotgun.
MURPHY: So whoever did this now has our Doesn't look like it much matters.
GREER: Doesn't look like it much matters.
EPPS: What do we do with him?
MURPHY: Leave him till we can get some help. From now on, nobody comes down here.
GREER: What about the gold?
MURPHY: Leave it.
GREER: Now hold up just a minute. Let's be reasonable here.
MURPHY: You think whoever did this is All I'm saying is that gold's worth a lot more to us now than it ever I can't believe you. Dodge's dead and all you can think about is cashing in your share.
GREER: All I'm saying is that gold's worth a lot more to us now than it ever I can't believe you. Dodge's dead and all you can think about is cashing in your share.
EPPS: I can't believe you. Dodge's dead and all you can think about is cashing in your share.
GREER: I didn't sign up to go home empty handed. And I sure ain't gonna roll over for the freaky motherfucker did Nobody's going anywhere with that gold now. Anybody tries to board, we'll know about it. You can do what you want, Greer. But neither of us is gonna risk saving your ass down here if it comes to Fine with me.
MURPHY: Nobody's going anywhere with that gold now. Anybody tries to board, we'll know about it. You can do what you want, Greer. But neither of us is gonna risk saving your ass down here if it comes to Fine with me.
GREER: Fine with me.
EPPS: He does not hear her as he stands there. She approaches, stepping up.
EPPS: You okay? Another beat, as he looks off, into the light, when he slowly turns to see her. A long beat as she looks back. He holds there, the same empty look about him, when he grabs her by the throat and squeezes She is stunned, breathless, but raises her hands to grip his wrists, fighting him.
EPPS: His grip tightens. He is much stronger and her efforts make little difference.
EPPS: Let go! She hangs on, starting to choke. She drops one hand, searching with it.
GREER: He speaks nonsense, his face distorted in an ugly grimace, eyes bulging as Epps fumbles over the table, a tray of glass and silver crashing to the floor as he pushes her back, still choking her. He backs her to the wall, pushing in, closing her windpipe the rest of the way. Her hand searches behind her, knocking over a small vase, a basket, some books. It comes to a brass desk lamp. It falls, a little out of reach. She is going to black out any second, as Greer strangles Her hand comes to the desk lamp, grabbing it. She raises the lamp, swinging with all her might, connecting with Greer's head. He stumbles back, a gash laid into his face, as Epps sucks in air, gagging and coughing, her neck purple with finger marks. She fumbles her radio up.
EPPS: ( into radio ) Murphy! I'm on C deck, cabin 400! Get down here now!! Blood is running down his face as Greer comes for her again. She throws down the radio. A bed stands between them. She feints right, then left. He's dazed and has blood in his eyes. She manages to slip by, but he dives, taking her down. He drags her back along the floor, spinning her around. He raises a fist to ram into her face when WHAM! Epps has shoved the butt of her flashlight into his crotch and he comes up SCREAMING. He grabs her face, striking her with his other hand. She swings the flashlight again and cracks him across the head. He swings yet again and connects, knocking her across the floor. She lies in a heap as Greer climbs to his feet, enraged and He unbuckles his belt as he approaches, pulling it from his waist to do God knows what. Epps looks around to see him approaching. And we see that she has unhinged her gill knife. As his foot steps near, she lets go and drives the knife with all her might into his boot, plunging the blade through his foot and into the floor. He SCREAMS. After a moment he stops, looks to her. He is a bloody, wretched, enraged mess. He starts toward her as Murphy appears in the doorway. Just as Greer is upon her, Murphy blind sides Greer from behind at full speed, knocking him down. Greer and Murphy struggle as Epps climbs unsteadily to her feet. She staggers to them and raises the flashlight over Greer, bringing it down on his head.
OUTSIDE: Murphy slams the door shut as Epps looks on. She puts a steel pipe across the hatch lever so that it cannot be opened.
MURPHY: Smashed the radio. Scuttled the boat. Killed Dodge. Would've killed you. He's off his nut, no doubt there. They watch him in silence a moment as Greer mutters and bobs.
MURPHY: What do you think?
EPPS: Could be a stroke. Who knows? The general log said the crew were fighting among themselves. "Like wild dogs."
MURPHY: Over the gold.
EPPS: Maybe it was more than that. Greer gets up, comes to the window, looking out at them. He presses his face to the glass.
EPPS: They went crazy.
MURPHY: Crazy with greed. Not crazy. Not like him. A beat as Epps looks off. In the window Greer drags his hideously distorted face over the glass, the blood from his wounds smearing in broad red streaks.
MURPHY: We lash a few of these together it might get us far enough into the shipping lanes to be rescued. A beat as they look on at the rotting hull.
MURPHY: Hard to say which is worse, staying here or taking our chances in open If the weather holds it might not be so bad.
EPPS: If the weather holds it might not be so bad.
MURPHY: It's not the weather I'm worried about. The wrong current could drag us as far as the Aleutians before we come across another boat.
EPPS: ( holding down talk button ) She waits, holding there as only silence comes back.
EPPS: Murphy, this is Epps. Do you copy? Again, only silence comes back until, after a moment, the channel opens again. No one speaks, though there is a palpable presence on the other end.
EPPS: ( raising the radio ) Who is this? The channel opens again, only silence returning. The sound of the MUSIC BOX CAN BE HEARD, "DAISY" COMING BACK OVER THE
VOICE: "Cock-a-doodle-doo, said the rooster to the crow. Where are you now? I know but won't say so." She holds there a beat, then crosses to the table to find the book of nursery rhymes. She opens it to the nursery rhyme "The Rooster and the Crow," seeing the same words on the page, when the radio CRACKLES AGAIN.
VOICE: Penny whistle toy. Penny whistle toy. Penny whistle toy. Penny whistle On the table is the penny whistle she saw earlier. She takes it, holding on it a moment. She raises it and THE CAMERA SLOWLY PUSHES IN as she puts it to her lips and lightly blows a C-SHARP WHICH BECOMES A C-SHARP FROM A PENNY WHISTLE across the room.
MOTHER: "Cock-a-doodle-doo, said the rooster to the crow. Where are you now? I know but won't say so." On the other side of the room, the younger girl from the photo plays the penny whistle. She is sitting on the floor with the MOTHER who reads from the book we saw earlier.
MOTHER: "Cock-a-doodle-doo, said the rooster to the crow. Where are you now? I know but won't say so." Cassandra, if you insist on playing that while I read I'll just stop right now.
THE GIRL: The room is warm with light, restored to its original condition some fifty years ago as Epps stands there, unseen, no longer holding the whistle. A man, the FATHER from the photos, steps from the bathroom wearing a new coat.
FATHER: What do you think?
MOTHER: He certainly did shorten it, didn't I thought this was all the rage.
FATHER: I thought this was all the rage.
KATIE: Maybe last year. Katie joins them from the outer room.
FATHER: What about this year?
KATIE: It's not your color anyway.
GIRL: I like it, daddy.
FATHER: Well thank you!
GIRL: Daddy, how much longer before we start moving again?
FATHER: They're working on the engines, honey. As soon as they fix them we'll be on our way.
EPPS' POV: a geometric pattern of a lotus on the Persian carpet at her feet. When she looks up again she sees what the father sees. The mutineer finishes, climbing off the woman. Another of the men pulls her up to reveal that she is no woman at all, but Katie. The mother and sister lie in a bloody heap near-by as one of the other mutineers steps up to Epps.
MUTINEER: You like that, daddy? I'll show you something else now. The mutineer steps back to the bed. He sits Katie down so that she faces us on the end of the bed. He raises an axe over her, bringing it down as the world becomes a whirling BACK TO SCENE The CAMERA STOPS ON KATIE standing on the other side of the room, now empty of people, returned to its shabby, abandoned It isn't real. Epps looks back at her from the other side of the room where she stands.
NO!!!!: BACK TO SCENE The CAMERA STOPS ON KATIE standing on the other side of the room, now empty of people, returned to its shabby, abandoned Epps looks back at her from the other side of the room where she stands.
KATIE: It isn't real. Epps looks back at her from the other side of the room where she stands.
KATIE: Many bad things have happened here. But you mustn't allow the evil inside. I tell you this because you can see me. The others can't. But you must leave. You must leave. A LOUD GUNSHOT SOUNDS SOMEWHERE IN THE SHIP. When Epps turns back Katie is gone.
MURPHY: Epps to Murphy. Only WHITE NOISE COMES BACK.
EPPS: Epps to Murphy. Only WHITE NOISE COMES BACK as she rounds the corner out onto the promenade. At the other end, the aquarium can be As she approaches she sees that the tank is empty. Greer is nowhere to be seen and the skylight at the top is broken A GREAT BOOMING SHUDDER rocks the ship. A LOUD SCREECHING OF METAL follows it.
EPPS: What happened?
MURPHY: We hit land.
EPPS: We're in an island chain. It's only a matter of time before we hit another Greer's gone. He broke out of the INT. CHIMERA - PASSAGEWAY - MOMENTS LATER - DAY Epps and Murphy move quickly along, when another HUGE BOOMING shudders the ship and the SHRIEKING OF METAL follows.
MURPHY: We're in an island chain. It's only a matter of time before we hit another Greer's gone. He broke out of the INT. CHIMERA - PASSAGEWAY - MOMENTS LATER - DAY Epps and Murphy move quickly along, when another HUGE BOOMING shudders the ship and the SHRIEKING OF METAL follows.
EPPS: Greer's gone. He broke out of the INT. CHIMERA - PASSAGEWAY - MOMENTS LATER - DAY Epps and Murphy move quickly along, when another HUGE BOOMING shudders the ship and the SHRIEKING OF METAL follows.
EPPS: He's been shot. Murphy kneels too, looking on at Greer's lifeless eyes.
MURPHY: Let's get the hell out of here.
MURPHY: It should be enough to get us to one of those islands. Gimme a hand, She joins him and they lift it off its stand, taking it to the rail.
MURPHY: Prop it here. We need to pull these braces off. There's a hammer on the stand. There. Epps crosses back to the stands.
MURPHY: I'll take that. A beat as she looks to Murphy.
EPPS: It was you. He only looks back at her as she stands there.
EPPS: You killed them.
MURPHY: It was only a matter of time before somebody killed somebody. You saw it coming as well as I did. Dodge had his plans, starting with scuttling the boat. And Greer too, except he went nuts. Couldn't take it, I guess. Could've happened in the middle of downtown Anchorage. But did it make him any less dangerous? I don't think so.
EPPS: So you killed them?
MURPHY: The way I figure it, it was them or me. I thought putting Dodge up on that pipe was a nice touch? Bought a little time. Made it look like whoever killed those Greeks was still around. But it's just us on this ship. Us and your. spirit friends.
EPPS: And now you're gonna kill me, is that it?
MURPHY: I didn't want it to turn out this Murphy, don't you see what's I think I see it pretty well.
EPPS: Murphy, don't you see what's I think I see it pretty well.
MURPHY: I think I see it pretty well.
EPPS: It's the ship. The ship's making you think this way.
MURPHY: I know a little bit about human nature and what I've seen only confirms It's a trap. There was no way we were gonna get away with that gold. Nobody ever does. It's just the bait. This ship sucks people in and it never lets them out.
EPPS: It's a trap. There was no way we were gonna get away with that gold. Nobody ever does. It's just the bait. This ship sucks people in and it never lets them out.
MURPHY: I think maybe you been on this boat a little too long, with all that supernatural mumbo jumbo. There's nothing supernatural about greed. And that's what it comes down to, pure and simple.
EPPS: I don't give a damn about the gold.
MURPHY: I wish I could believe that. Either way, you know what I've done. I've got no choice. He raises the shotgun.
MURPHY: I'm sorry. He prepares to fire, when a CONCUSSION ROCKS THE SHIP. Epps ducks and Murphy fires, a spatter of buckshot shredding the vent behind her. A SCREECHING OF METAL DEEP IN THE SHIP SOUNDS as she gets up, diving for cover as Murphy shuttles the gun WITH EPPS Epps scrambles behind a deck vent.
WITH EPPS: Epps scrambles behind a deck vent.
MURPHY: There's no reason to make this any more difficult than it has to be.
WITH EPPS: As Epps holds there she sees the vent opening. She pulls herself up and climbs inside.
WITH MURPHY: Murphy climbs down a ladder to the lower decks.
WITH EPPS: Epps is forced down by the boiler, trapped between it and the bulkhead.
THE END: Additional Info Writers : Mark Hanlon
