GINGER SNAPS: Written by Karen Walton
FADE IN: EXT. FITZGERALD HOME NIGHT The house is dark. The moon is almost full. A dog barks. A melancholy voice, worn for its age, narrates: BRIGITTE ( V/o ) Ever try bein' different? An, I don't mean jus' thinkin' about it, either. Ginger an' me - I mean I. The house numbers read 669. The 9 slips: the number now reads 666.
GINGER: Brigitte. Quit dickin' around. Jus' do it. Brigitte reluctantly stops her thrashing and douses a cotton ball in rubbing alcohol. Without looking up from her TANK GIRL comic, Ginger hauls her own shirt up to expose her navel. Brigitte swabs Ginger's navel with the wet cotton ball. Her eyes drift to Ginger's chest, then back to what she's doing.
GINGER: ( without looking up ) .I can't. Ginger gives Brigitte a look over the top of her comic. Brigitte takes a deep breath, and lines the needle up again. Brigitte swallows hard and applies pressure. The needle pierces Ginger's skin. Her stomach muscles flinch.
BRIGITTE: .I can't. Ginger gives Brigitte a look over the top of her comic. Brigitte takes a deep breath, and lines the needle up again. Brigitte swallows hard and applies pressure. The needle pierces Ginger's skin. Her stomach muscles flinch.
GINGER: You said it wouldn't hurt!
OUCH!: You said it wouldn't hurt!
BRIGITTE: You said it wouldn't hurt!
GINGER: Jus' hurry up! The needle has stopped moving half-way through the skin.
BRIGITTE: Uh-oh . Brigitte wiggles the needle. Blood wells up around it.
BRIGITTE: Um. I think it's stuck. Oh man. There's blood. Ginger lowers her comic. she takes one look at the needle half-.in, half-out of her belly button - and cracks up.
BRIGITTE: snot funny, Ginger! Laughing her head off, Ginger gives the needle a good tug from her end. The skin tugs with it, resisting.
BRIGITTE: Ali, gawd, gross. Ginger yanks the needle, hard. This time it moves.
GINGER: I got it, I got it. Ginger grits her teeth. The needle begins a slow progress.
GINGER: It's goin', it's goin'- gimme the ring Brigitte grabs at a tiny silver ring on the bed spread but knocks it to the floor. Brigitte scrambles after it. Ginger yanks the needle.
GINGER: Bee?! C'mon! Brigitte finds the ring and hands it to Ginger. Ginger sets the ring on the end of the needle, looping it not-so-neatly Oh, groo-oo-o-ss! The bloody needle pops clear. Ginger grinds on the ring to close it. Ginger wipes her bloody hands on the bed. Brigitte is taking deep, gulping breaths.
BRIGITTE: Oh, groo-oo-o-ss! The bloody needle pops clear. Ginger grinds on the ring to close it. Ginger wipes her bloody hands on the bed. Brigitte is taking deep, gulping breaths.
GINGER: Bee? Feeb. Y'okay?
BRIGITTE: Yeah. I think so.
GINGER: ( TEASING ) Yeah, I think not.
BRIGITTE: If you din't say it hurt, I'd a been fine! Ginger beams at her new piercing.
GINGER: Pretty cool, unh? The flesh around the navel is hot pink and bruising. Brigitte grins too.
BRIGITTE: very cool.
GINGER: Now I'll do you. Brigitte bravely hangs onto to her smile.
GINGER: The fuck, Bee. Take a picture Brigitte raises a 35mm still camera to her eye and frames her sister's corpse in the viewfinder.
ART TEACHER: Very -um. Class? Comments? The students trade constipated looks.
ART TEACHER: Brigitte. What does it mean for Brigitte shrugs and squirms.
GINGER: Means there's more to life than well, li.fe. The Fitzgeralds look expectantly at row after row of blank faces. Brigitte shakes her head.
GINGER: Gawd, People! They hurt my They didn't even get it.
BRIGITTE: They didn't even get it.
GINGER: They're retards.
BRIGITTE: They're cretins.
GINGER: They're bone-heads.
BRIGITTE: 't'hey' re somnambulists.
GINGER: They're leems.
BRIGITTE: They're the goddamn walkin'-/ The girls stop before their locker. A folded up piece of loose leaf has been crushed into it, its end sticking out.
BRIGITTE: Somebody leaves you all. these jays an, yer not even curious to Ginger offers her a sucker and has one herself.
GINGER: No pe . A FAT JANITOR scoops up the wad of loose leaf with great resentment and jams it into the trash. Brigitte and Ginger pass a NECKING COUPLE practically dry- humping, GIRLS applying make-up to one another, and BOYS snapping each other with their sports cups. Jason and his fellow jock-pals TIM, FRANK, and JEREMY are scoping babes. Ginger bends to tie her boot lace and a collective groan swells from the guys.
JASON: See? She's weird, but hot.
TIM: Anybody poled Fitzy yet? Brigitte gives them a disgusted look.
TIM: Not that one. The cute one. Brigitte's face falls. Ginger gives them a Death Stare. The boys try flirty smiles.
GINGER: ( to Brigitte ) Sad. Must be hard to think with yer brains slappin' around yer thighs like that all day. Brigitte laughs. Ginger pulls her on, past a sign: GYMNASIUM.
GINGER: I feel sick.
BRIGITTE: Me too.
GINGER: No, J. mean really. Gingler opens a locker and tears off her clothes. Other girls glance at her navel piercing with disgust.. Brigitte is very self-conscious: she steps almost inside the locker, hiding behind the door while she changes into the revolting school gym outfit. She eyes the buxom bubble heads with contempt, as
TRINA: ( FAKELY ) Ooops. Sorry. Ginger gives Trina a very dirty look. Brigitte tries to rub her sore head while clutching her uniform to cover her chest. Trina and her posse cackle as they prance out, their butt cheeks waggling. The sisters continue changing.
GINGER: ( to Brigitte ) Y' okay's
BRIGITTE: I HATE her. Like to feed her ground glass with tacks for desert. Then make her puke it back up and swallow it again until she's like shredded to a bazillion pieces from the inside Ginger grips her sides painfully and bends double.
BRIGITTE,: what's the matter?
GINGER: I got gas.Maybe I'll try an, cut one right in her face out They slap hands, laughing. They look down at their gym outfits, which are SO unflattering. Brigitte and Ginger exchange identical looks of agony.
SYKES: Field lacrosse is no pussy-assed tea party, ya get IN there, get a LOCK on your target and PUSH IT! I want SWEAT I want ACTION! The Trinas giggle at Sykes. Ginger bends forward, holding her Shake a leg, Fitzgeralds. An, butt out, you gotta death wish!?
MZ.SYKES: Shake a leg, Fitzgeralds. An, butt out, you gotta death wish!?
GINGER: Feel really sick, Mz. Sykes.
MZ. SYRES: Cigarettes'll do that for you! Ginger flicks the smoke at Sykes' turned back. It falls short, of course. The sisters trudge to their places on the field. Ginger is on the offensive line. Brigitte is in goal.
TRINA: Oh, HOW GRO-O-O-O-OSS!!
SYKES: Don't TOUCH it, Fitzgerald! What's WRONG with you two?! Get up and hit the SHOWERS!
SYKES: All RIGHT, ladies, settle! This is no joke! You have information about the dog deaths you do
WHAT!: CLASS IN CHORUS ( by rote ) Tell a teacher, Principal Fardor, or the police.
BRIGITTE: Teen cult my ass. Look Ginge', something went for its throat - it's not cut, it's chewed. Brigitte looks up in time to see Ginger's eyes roll back in her head. Ginger faints. The class inhales as one.
BRIGITTE: Sykes and the class stampede up. Sykes pushes Brigitte out of the way.
FERRY: The fainting' s worrisome you don't diet do you dear?
GINGER: Hm. Anemia's very common at your age. Eat more red meat, try an iron vitamin supplement. If it happens again, straight to a proper doctor, all righty? Brigitte looks relieved.
FERRY: Hm. Anemia's very common at your age. Eat more red meat, try an iron vitamin supplement. If it happens again, straight to a proper doctor, all righty? Brigitte looks relieved.
FERRY: Now as for 'the headache, cramps, lower back pain .I'm guessing your period is due.
GINGER: I haven't got a, um, period.
FERRY: Never? Flow old are you?
GINGER: Fifteen. our mother says we're late bloomers.
FERRY: Well judging by your troubles, I'd say you can expect to blossom any time now! Brigitte pulls a face. Ferry produces numerous samples of feminine hygiene products and heaps them onto Ginger.
FERRY: Are you familiar with all these? Ginger shrugs.
FERRY: Now what suits one girl might not be comfortable for another. The proper form of protection is a personal choice, and may have a lot to do with your menstrual flow, which naturally changes during the time you'll have your little miracle of nature. It could start thick and syrupy, move to a straight-forward basic bright red bleeding and then perhaps a deep brownish to blackish slime, signaling the end of the flow. Twenty-eight days later or there abouts, it'll start all over again and continue every month until menopause, in about thirty years' time. Nurse Ferry produces a pocket calendar with a tampon or pad advertisement for every month.
BRIGITTE: ( reading a panty- liner ad ) "Some days it's all you need."-? What does that mean?
GINGER: So you pulled a Quincy on that dog, unh?
BRIGITTE: Ginger grabs the calendar and sticks it in her pocket.
GINGER: Quincy, that guy with the stiffs on cable. Alls I remember is you goin', "Teen cult my ass".
BRIGITTE: Oh. Right. Well, I dunno. Brigitte shrugs. She gives Ginger a funny look.
GINGER: Why are you looking at me like that? Do I look - different?
BRIGITTE: Can you tell I'm going to-?
GINGER: Can you tell I'm going to-?
BRIGITTE: No. .Really. Ginger squints at her, unconvinced.
GINGER: Wham. Total adultness. How can I have a miracle of nature an, not be old enough to drive! fiurih? The fuck. Ginger kicks a kiddie toy hard into a yard. Brigitte doesn't have an answer to this.
GINGER: Hey. If I start simpin' around tampon dispensers and moanin' over cramps, or even think about buying somethin' that says Baby Powder Fresh? You'll. shoot me, BR TG.'i"I'L of course. They exchange grins.
GINGER: Out by sixteen
BRIGITTE: .or dead in this scene. Ginger raises her hand and Brigitte smacks it hard. As they mount the drive, Ginger picks up a stone and hucks it at Norman, who's still barking. She misses.
HENRY: How was school today?
GINGER: BRIGITTE ( V/U ) The nicest thing I could say about Henry and Pamela was also the meanest thing I could say.
PAMELA: Didn't you have a presentation? How'd it go?
GINGER: Pamela and Henry exchange irritatingly patient smiles.
PAMELA: Made an appointment for you girls at my gynecologist. Next Henry studies his plate. Ginger almost imperceptibly shakes her head at Brigitte. Brigitte nods, understanding.
GINGER: You know why.
PAMELA: You know why.
GINGER: we're not going to a What did I say about that tone of voice? .You are going to the gynecologist.
PAMELA: What did I say about that tone of voice? .You are going to the gynecologist.
GINGER: Dad!? She's completely paranoid!
HENRY: I'd rather stay out of this.
GINGER: She's gonna have some fat jerk get his jollies poking his fingers up our ./
HENRY: ( INTERRUPTING ) I'm actually eating here.
PAMELA: Henry, neither one of them has had a period yet.
HENRY: Ah. Yes. You've said. As Pamela says the next line, Ginger mou t:hs it- word for word 1.a Brigitte.
PAMELA: It's very odd that two perfectly healthy fifteen year olds are not menstruating. Right? Briggitte apes Henry's next line back to Ginger.
HENRY: Mmmm. steak's really yummy tonight. This a new sauce? The sisters giggle. Pamela is losing her cool.
PAMELA: I started at eleven. The problem must be on your side, Henry.
HENRY: Pamela? This is not my fault. No one's at fault here.
PAMELA: when did your sister start?
HENRY: I've told you, I really have no idea. Oddly enough, we never discussed it. why don't you call her and ask her yourself?
PAMELA: I can't call her out of the blue and ask a thing like that. Besides, it's dinner time. They'll be eating.
HENRY: Well I've been checking panties for four years now
PAMELA: Well I've been checking panties for four years now
HENRY: Hey, hey - I don't want to hear that word in my house. You will do as your mother says and I will change the subject. Anybody going to tell me what happened to my fence? From under the table, Henry produces the bloodied, sawed-off picket stained bloody from Ginger's impaling. Brigitte holds her full mouth open so Ginger can see its masticated contents. Ginger cracks up laughing. Henry and Pamela sigh.
BRIGITTE: Why din't you jus' tell her you're going to get it?
GINGER: Can't take her 'attention'. She grosses me out. Can't believe she's our mother. Brigitte puts a fresh tampon up her nose and lifts a Polaroid camera at arms' length from her face.
BRIGITTE: Yeah, but now we have to see this doctor. You can jus' say you got it, but I'm screwed. FLASH! The Polaroid spits out the front. Brigitte sticks another tampon in her free nostril, and one in each ear as,
GINGER: Did I get you out of Home Ec? Did I get you out of ballet classes? So I'll get you out of this, right?
GINGER: I said I will, I will. This jay's fine. Let us smoke, Ginger cranks the stereo and throws on a coat. She double- takes Brigitte' s tampon face.
GINGER: WHAT are you doing?
BRIGITTE: ( sticking tampons under her upper lip ) Look - a walrus.
GINGER: Hardee-har. Har.
BRIGITTE: How'l1 you know when you finally get it any ways?
GINGER: Prob'ly feel like peein' your Well I'm not too excited.
BRIGITTE: Well I'm not too excited.
GINGER: Well I'm not too excited.
BRIGITTE,: ( checking her watch ) We're missing Unsolved Wish I was an unsolved mystery. Brigitte reflects on this heavy thought, nodding - stoned.
GINGER: Wish I was an unsolved mystery. Brigitte reflects on this heavy thought, nodding - stoned.
GINGER: Hey. You smell somethin' gross?
GINGER: This is so not my day. Brigitte helps her to her feet. Ginger shakes what she slipped on off her shoe. It's a long, ropy intestine. She drags her shoe to get the blood and goo of it.
GINGER: Nice. Dog shit.
BRIGITTE: ( thrilled to recognize the smell ) That isn't shit. it's death. A line of blood and gore trails across the grass to a back lane. Brigitte follows it. Ginger looks around for something on the ground.
GINGER: Great. Lost the jay. Great.
BRIGITTE: Ack, it's still warm, gross. Brigitte takes its picture FLASH! with the Polaroid, which is strung around her neck.
GINGER: Why every dog but the mutt next door to us?
BRIGITTE: Hey, we could take it home. Try like, an autopsy. Like, crack the case!
GINGER: Nah. Let's put ' im in there so he won't. Lraumatize the kiddies.
GINGER: We never do what I wanna do.
BRIGITTE: We never do what I wanna do.
GINGER: Oh, c' mon. Would stink up the whole room! They hoist the dog up and dump it in the dumpster. It's hind end sticks out. Brigitte climbs into the dumpster, dragging it all the way in. Dusting herself off, Ginger notices some blood on her thigh.
GINGER: Ginger wipes at the blood with her hand. More appears. She lifts up the hem of her skirt. Her face falls. She looks around. She slips her fingers up to her crotch. Her hand comes out bloody.
GINGER: Bee. I JUST got the curse. Brigitte stops rooting garbage over the dog.
BRIGITTE: Ginger wiggles her wet fingers at her.
GINGER: We gotta go home.
BRIGITTE: Eeew, 'kay. Brigitte catches her kilt on a nail sticking out of a plank in the trash. Something is crunching through the leaves toward them. Ginger peers out into the darkness.
GINGER: Hurry upt
BRIGITTE: I'm stuck3 A few homes down, a garage's motion-sensitive security lamp trips on. Ginger squints, blinded.
GINGER: Brigitte contorts to deal with the nail. Brigitte tears her hem free and jumps down. The light snaps off.
GINGER: ( indicating the opposite direction ) Let's go this way. Brigitte dips a hand back into the dumpster for the plank with the nail. Off Ginger's look, Brigitte shrugs. They start walking down the lane. The greenery behind them starts swelling again. The leaves crunch, faster. Brigitte and Ginger look at one another, and walk faster. The lane empties behind a deserted strip mall.
BRIGITTE: This is stupid. We're getting farther from home. Ginger is pissed off now. she turns to confront their ( to the darkness ) All right you ass-/ She's cut cold by a roaring blur of speeding fur and teeth and claws: SOMETHING takes Ginger down hard. We cannot see it as a whole, we can't make out what it is. It's big, heavy, and raging. Immense jaws snap vicious teeth, going for Ginger's jugular. Brigitte drops her plank.
GINGER: ( to the darkness ) All right you ass-/ She's cut cold by a roaring blur of speeding fur and teeth and claws: SOMETHING takes Ginger down hard. We cannot see it as a whole, we can't make out what it is. It's big, heavy, and raging. Immense jaws snap vicious teeth, going for Ginger's jugular. Brigitte drops her plank.
GINGER: BEEEEEI HELP MEEE! BEEEEE!!!1! Brigitte snatches up the plank with the nails. Brigitte brings it down hard on the thing, screaming. She smacks it once, twice. The plank pops a shot off the camera: FLASH! A horrible set of jaws and one golden eye are caught for a split second in the light. The third hit evokes a yelp and the thing backs off, snarling.. Brigitte quakes with the board raised, ready. The thing skitters before her as she screams. Ginger scrambles to her foot and grabs Bee with bloodied Brigitte drops the plank and they run like hell.. for a main thorough-way ahead. It pursues them.
GINGER: Brigitte drops the plank and they run like hell.. for a main thorough-way ahead. It pursues them.
BRIGITTE: Ginger, shit! Ginger looks at herself. Ginger starts to cry.
GINGER: The fuck was that, Bee?
BRIGITTE: Ginger, sshhh, don't, 'kay. Don't cry. Carefully, Brigitte begins to dab at Ginger's arms with it, wiping off the blood. Ginger flinches. The damage is gradually revealed: massive claw marks, deep scratches, and puncture wounds - BITE MARKS. Brigitte's eyes fill with tears.
BRIGITTE: Okay, this is really bad. You need a doctor, Ginge', I can't stop all the -/
GINGER: No! Not tellin' anybody! Bee?! Nobody. Get in shit for bein' out, smokin' up - don't tell.
BRIGITTE: What if you get, sick? What if these bites get infected?
GINGER: Fine! I won't tell! Brigitte starts tearing off strips of gauze and taping it on thick. Oblivious, Ginger fumbles for a smoke. She can't get the lighter to work.
BRIGITTE: Fine! I won't tell! Brigitte starts tearing off strips of gauze and taping it on thick. Oblivious, Ginger fumbles for a smoke. She can't get the lighter to work.
GINGER: Wanted to kill me! I could tell.
BRIGITTE: ( giving into tears ) I know, I know. I was so scared, I thought you were -/
GINGER: Me too. Don't say it. I know. Brigitte lights her smoke for her. Ginger takes a drag and passes it back to Brigitte.
GINGER: Fuck. You okay? Brigitte resumes her first aid.
GINGER: Why!?? Why me?
BRIGITTE: It was crazy, it was like rabid or somethin' Shit, look at the size of these bites!
GINGER: I'm okay, I'm okay, I'm okay. Right? It's okay. Brigitte doesn't look convinced. Brigitte snaps the port of an internal vacuum system open and reaches into the tube. She withdraws a sample-size of Jack Daniels.
BRIGITTE: Drink this. Ginger glugs some down, and passes the last mouthful left to Brigit.t.e. Brigitte waves it. away, -,o Ginger finishes it al.l.
BRIGITTE: I seen this thing, on bears? Said bears'd come after like, chicks on the rag. 'Cause of the smell.
GINGER: Wasn't my fault!
BRIGITTE: I didn't say that./
GINGER: Wasn't a f uckin' bear either. Whatever it was, it wasn't a I know, I'm not /
BRIGITTE: I know, I'm not /
GINGER: Do I stink? Can you smell it?
GINGER: Doesn't feel anythin' like peeing your pants, by the way.
BRIGITTE: It doesn't?
GINGER: It's gross though. It's really gross. I better, ya know, deal with that.
BRIGITTE: Yeah, sure. Ginger's only half-bandaged up. she staggers to the bathroom and shuts the door. Brigitte eyes the Polaroid camera: a picture sits ready to be dispensed. She pulls it free. We do not see the photo. Brigitte's eyes bug out as she examines it. The toilet flushes in the bathroom and Brigitte pushes the photo under the pillow on her bed. Shaking her head.
GINGER: That booze - straight to my head, man.
BRIGITTE: You really okay? Ginger-es eyes are already fluttering shut.
GINGER: You saved me. Love you. Bee. Brigitte leans in, listening to Ginger breathe.
BRIGITTE: Me too, Ginge'.
BRIGITTE: Gonna eat that? Ginger shakes her head as she picks at her bandages. Brigitte helps herself.
BRIGITTE: Mmm! Sad, but Pamela's egg salad is her best thing. Like that she can do. ( no response ) Like, when she puts the baby onions in? ( no response ) And she gobs on it and adds those hard little pieces of
BOOGER: Ginger pulls at her own crotch.
BRIGITTE: Hell-o 1?
GINGER: Sorry. Pads suck, so ya know.
BRIGITTE: Should eat something.
GINGER: Thanks Pamela, I'm aware. Off Brigitte's insulted look,
GINGER: T dunno, I'm all blaaahh, I got this, like I can taste what I want, but nothin's it. Ya know? Brigitte stops in mid-chew.
BRIGITTE: A craving?
GINCER: Yeah. I crave. Ya know? Brigitte chews very slowly as she stares at Ginger. Ginger squints at Jason and his pals across the yard.
GINGER: McCardy's a stoner right?
BRIGITTE: Yeah -?
GINGER: C'mon, I wanna feel better.
BRIGITTE: You joke. Ginger heads off toward the boys - without waiting. Brigitte is in mid-,mouthful, and has to scramble to catch up.
JASON: Uh - hi.
GINGER: Hey. So. Nice day, blah blah blah. Got any smoke?
JASON: Smoke. Grass, weed, dope, green, bud, Nancy.
GINGER: Smoke. Grass, weed, dope, green, bud, Nancy.
JASON: Wanna share?
GINGER: Wanna share?
JASON: Hey. I thought your slide show in art was cool.
OTHER GUYS: Oh yeah/Unh-huh/Very cool.
GINGER: Jason and Ginger exchange a coy smile that makes Brigitte toke really hard on her pass. Brigitte passes the dube to Tim, who winks at her. Brigitte sneers and looks at her watch. She makes a pained face at Ginger, but is ignored.
GINGER: This home-grown?
JASON: Yeah. This guy we know? Learned hydrophonics in the pen, man.
BRIGITTE: Yeah, whatever. Brigitte gapes at Ginger, who does not respond. Brigitte hides beneath her hair and presses even further into a corner. She starts quietly ripping up the corner of the old shag rug. There is a codified knock on the vain door. Brigitte jumps.
JASON: Yeah, whatever. Brigitte gapes at Ginger, who does not respond. Brigitte hides beneath her hair and presses even further into a corner. She starts quietly ripping up the corner of the old shag rug. There is a codified knock on the vain door. Brigitte jumps.
JASON: speak of the devil. Enter! The back doors open and Sam ( the tree planter ) stands in silhouette, backlit by the day. His battered county truck waits behind him. He has a pit bull with him - MORELY.
BOYS: Sam the Man! Hey Morely! Sam and Morely hop in and close the doors. Brigitte is frozen at the sight of Sam up so close.
TIM: Whoa dude. What happened to your truck?
SAM: Shit. Had an accident on the 403. It was weird it../ Morely stomps into Brigitte's lap, sniffing her crotch.
SAM: ( to Brigitte ) Sorry about him, he's an ass hole. Morely! My girlfriend's, she won't leave him at home alone any more. Ya know, dog killers. Morely, no! Sit! Brigitte's mouth is hanging open. Morely slobbers all over her hands.
JASON: Watcha got for us? Sam produces several baggies of grass. Morely's hackles rise. Brigitte looks from the dog to Ginger, Ginger squirms.
SAM: New harvest, see whatcha think. ( to Morely ) What's your problem? Never seen a pretty girl before? Ginger sneers at Morely and Morely bares his teeth.
SAM: Sorry, he's not really like this. I'm really sorry.
GINGER: Jus' get'im out!
SAM: I'm really - well, see you guys. And in another flash of daylight, Sam and Morely are gone. Brigitte looks longingly at the closed door. The stone has set in, and everyone but Brigitte giggles as they settle. Brigitte takes in the Lesser Mortals like they're lepers.
JASON: You okay?
GINGER: Yeah. Just hate dogs. They give one another this corny smile. Brigitte bugs her eyes at Ginger. Ginger rises reluctantly.
GINGER: Well. Thanks for the smoke.
JASON: Maybe we could / Ginger places a finger to her lips, then makes a finger gun and shoots him.
GINGER: I'll letcha know. Ginger grins ear-to-ear, elbowing Brigitte. Ginger kicks the van doors open and saunters out. Brigitte :Follows, trying not to laugh.
BRIGITTE: I'll letcha, I'll jus' let-choo know. Bud. .So Ginger. Wanna tell me about you and like, the planet yer currently visiting? No answer. Brigitte squints at the tampon dispenser next to her. She tries to work it without putting money in. She smacks her dry lips. Brigitte bends over the sink and drinks from the tap.
GINGER: ( STARTLED ) Brigitte shuffles to the wrong door, opens it and finds it empty. She giggles and moves to the next one.
BRIGITTE: ( STARTLED ) Brigitte shuffles to the wrong door, opens it and finds it empty. She giggles and moves to the next one.
GINGER: Brigitte shuffles to the wrong door, opens it and finds it empty. She giggles and moves to the next one.
BRIGITTE: That smoke fucked me _up._ up. Brigitte finds Ginger with her shirt and all, the bandages peeled off. she is dabbing at herself with wads of toilet The scratches and bites are oozing a clear gelatinous goo, under which a fine film of dark hairs have sprouted. Brigitte steps into the stall agape. The door hits her on the way in.
BRIGITTE: Geez that's not right.
GINGER: 1 didn't think.
BRIGITTE: What's the sticky stuff?
GINGER: I dunno.
BRIGITTE: Oooh. Tickly.
GINGER: I got it on my tits too, look.
BRIGITTE: Weird. Does it hurt?
GINGER: No, it's itchy. I can't have a hairy chest Bee, that's fucked.
BRIGITTE: Yeah, like forget that tattoo you wanned.
GINGER: This sucks.
BRIGITTE: Quito badly. The idiocy of the looks of awe on the other's face makes them both crack up.
GINGER: ( LAUGHING ) This isn't funny.
FINGERS ): Attacked. On a full moon. Now, yer hairy.
GINGER: ( SNORTING ) I'm not Harry, I'm Ginger.
BRIGITTE: ( snorting too ) Stop, I'm serious. Think about Ginger stops laughing long enough to let the suggestion That's so stupid! They both burst into gales again. There is a sound outside the stall, as
GINGER: That's so stupid! They both burst into gales again. There is a sound outside the stall, as
TRINA: Trina backs away, her hands to her mouth.
TRINA: Gawd: They're lesbos!
CLONES: Brigitte smacks her forehead. Ginger steps out and leers at Trina, licking her lips in a grotesque mock-lust. The Trinas shrink back against the farthest wall.
GINGER: Yeah, who's next? I'm still Brigitte's jaw drops. Ginger turns to leave and the Trinas, start to relax. Ginger whips around again:
GINGER: ( barking like a dog ) Rrr-uf, ruf, rr-of-rufrf
TRINAS: ( SHRIEK ) Ginger gives the Trinas a good dead-eyed stave, and walks out. Brigitte stumbles out after her.
BRIGITTE: They're all looking at us.
GINGER: Ginger looks up at Jason, who is reading the note. Jason smiles at Ginger and destroys the note. Trina seethes. Ginger grabs the knife from Brigitte. she makes a deep incision in the pig's belly.
BRIGITTE: So! You're growing fur an, acting like a nut, is so! Ginger spies two girls giggling at her. Using both hands Ginger cracks the carcass. wide open like a clam. Ginger digs in, gouging out the pig's parts with her bare hands. Ginger breaks into a sweat, her breathing gets heavy. Brigitte cautiously looks around at their classmates. she moves to shield Ginger from prying eyes.
BRIGITTE: Um. Ginger-?
GINGER: hold on, I'm goi.n' for the Ginger has begun scraping away at the pig's cranium with her finger nails. A sickening creak, snap, and the brain is exposed. Ginger - unconsciously - licks her fingers as she admires its frontal lobe.
BRIGITTE: Can't believe you did that!
GINGER: Hunh? What? Before Brigitte can answer, Ginger lifts the brain out on her finger tips, gently pushes Brigitte out of her way and. Whap! The brain lands squarely on Trina's head. Trina Ha-ha! Bull's eye!
GINGER: Ha-ha! Bull's eye!
BIO TEACHER: Ginger Fitzgerald! Hall, NOW!
GINGER: What, it slipped! As Ginger stomps out with the teacher. Brigitte and Trina gape at one another.
GYNO: What the -?
GYNO: I've never seen anything like it. She's not built like a normal girl. I've sent samples to the lab. But this is very, VERY unusual. Brigitte pokes Ginger in the ribs. Ginger doesn't like this, and pushes Brigitte so hard she almost falls off her chair.
PAMELA: Girls, please.
GINGER: What're you, nuts? I got a skin thing, whatever.
BRIGITTE: If you just gotta skin thing why does it get worse everytime yer being a bitch? Why's the gyno say you're a monster inside?
GINGER: He din't say that!
GINGER: I'm takin' a shower.
GINGER: Fuck fuck fuck FUCK There are two other broken razors in the stall, stuffed with hairs. Blood mixes with the water and swirls around her INT. GIRLS' BEDROOM - NIGHT The doq is still barkin .outside. Brigitte closes her book.
GINGER: Now livid, Ginger takes up a dead tree branch. Up in the tree, Brigitte hides her face in her hands. Ginger ( :racks the stick over the dog's head. The yelping stops but Ginger keeps hitting. Blood splatters over her face. And Ginger tastes it. Ginger drops her stick. She drags the body into the hedge next to the fence. Brigitte lowers her hands from her eyes. Ginger is directly below her, concealed from the house by the shrubs. Ginger falls to her knees before the corpse. She lifts a rattling hand to touch him. She lowers her face to the bloody mess. She's sweating, vibrating, physically resisting an irresistible drive. Ginger's tongue slips between her lips. And Ginger licks Morely's body.
BRIGITTE: Oh. No. G-ginger -! Ginger begins to eat the dead dog. The feed. quickly becomes a ravenous frenzy. Above her, Brigitte leans over the branch she's barely balancing on, hyperventilating. Vomit sails down from Brigitte's perch.
NEIGHBOR: Dore-maan! Tweat-time! Hunh. The neighbor steps into the yard. Approaches the hedge. Stops right before them - they can see a pair of slippers twitching in the grass. Then they disappear, the porch light switches off, the screen door shuts.
BR IGITTE: PAMELA ( O/S ) Who's showering so late?
BRIGITTE: PAMELA( O/S ) she's dirty?! Brigitte throws up her hands: what an idiotic conversation.
BRIGITTE: she's dirty?! Brigitte throws up her hands: what an idiotic conversation.
GINGER: I couldn't help it. Really. Guess you were right. Ginger finds and lights a smoke.
GINGER: You know what's really weird?
BRIGITTE: Weirder than KILLING A DOG AND
EATING IT???!!: I liked it. I liked it a lot. I feel all fucki.n' goofy now. Like, I dunno. Like .happy? Brigitte shakes her head over and over.
GINGER: I liked it. I liked it a lot. I feel all fucki.n' goofy now. Like, I dunno. Like .happy? Brigitte shakes her head over and over.
GINGER: I feel like I just got off the Planet Smasher ride at WarWorid, okay? It rules! Ginger leaps to the stereo and blasts on some tunes. She flails around the room wildly. Ginger grabs Brigitte by the arms and makes her dance too. Ginger spins and spins Brigitte, who fights it but laughs.
GINGER: I want more. Brigitte squirms fitfully.
GINGER: Not if you help. Bee. I'm Brigitte looks into her sister's beaming face.
GINGER: Jus' keep watch. Look, I'm gonna be somethin' totally else. Tell me you don't so dig it. Tell me you don't wanna see what Brigitte groans.
KID: CUT BACK TO: Days get ticked off on the feminine hygiene calendar. BRIGITTE ( Vb0 ) We became the Beast of Bailey Downs. We got good.. The moon vanishes, then reappears in as a First Quarter, as Brigitte's getting the hang of things, she practices expert surveillance from car roofs, throws stones to trip motion- sensitive lamps, starts moving like a super spy, taking crime-scene style Polaroids of their victims, as
GINGER: You love it. Brigitte examines the feminine hygiene calendar. In it, a cartoon of a female egg is personified with a heels and sunglasses, strutting across the date.
BRTGITTE: trey, look yer ovulating. Ginger rubs her belly.
GINGER: I'm still hungry, Bee.
BRIGITTE: How can you - you've done every dog we can
GINGER: It's not enough. I want somethin'. I need more.
GINGER: Got a light, Jace'? Jason and his pals all fumble for lighters and five little flames appear before her smoke. She lights her smoke on Jason's, and exhaling looks him up and down. The boys flames go out, all at once.
GINGER: My sister would like one also. obediently, they all light up for Brigitte. Brigitte falters before the attention. At Ginger's nod, Brigitte lights up TRINA ( O1S ) Ginger turns to see Trina and the Clones sizing her up.
GINGER: Excuse me? Ginger seems to tower over the Trinas today. Trina can't match the menace. Ginger exhales smoke in Trinals face and climbs the steps into the school. Brigitte double-takes Ginger's back. Ginger's spine is protruding sharply through her shirt. Trina leers at Better watch your back, Brigitte snorts and follows Ginger in.
TRINA: Better watch your back, Brigitte snorts and follows Ginger in.
BRIGITTE: ( under her breath ) Like I'm scared.
OFFICER: we need your cooperation. If you know anything about the so- called Beast of Bailey Downs, call in. You can be anonymous.
BRIGITTE: Ginger's rolling the taste of Trina's blood around in her Mmnun .
GINGER: Mmnun .
BRIGITTE: You can't do that, That's human blood! .Feel anything? Brigitte and Ginger stare at one another. Ginger first shakes her head., but then nods. Ginger looks around and whispers
GINGER: It's sick but - I'm all like Brigitte makes a sour face.
SYKES: Fitzgerald, bench!
GINGER: What, she started it! Brigitte watches Ginger march to the sidelines, throwing off her gear as she goes.
SYKES: Pick that stuff up! Ginger gives Sykes the finger without looking back. Brigitte INT. BAILEY HIGH HALLS - DAY Brigitte waits outside a door marked GUIDANCE. Trina struggles by with the help of her clones. Trina sports a big ugly bandage on her neck, knees and an arm in a sling. She shoots Brigitte a Death Stare.
TRINA: Yer bitch sister's dead, freak.
BRIGITTE: ( under her breath ) Fuck off. Jason lopes up. He indicates the guidance office door.
JASON: Ginger in there again? Brigitte ignores him.
JASON: Cool. Um. Look, Belinda.
BRIGITTE: Right, right. T'd really like to take yer sister out. Think you could ask her for me?
JASON: Right, right. T'd really like to take yer sister out. Think you could ask her for me?
JASON: Hey. I could fix you up too. I Brigitte seethes.
JASON: Fuck. Never mind, I'll ask her ( under his breath ) Jason takes a post on the opposite Brigitte to wait. Brigitte glares at him.
MR. WAYNE: Look, you keep getting sent here. We might as well be I don't do friendly, Mr. Wayne.
GINGER: I don't do friendly, Mr. Wayne.
MR. WAYNE: Hey. I know where you're coming from. I was a kid once too.
GINGER: Really? So was I. Weird. Ginger fakes an eye-lash batting smile. She winds the condom over her erect fingers.
MR. WAYNE: Okay, you aren't a kid. You're a young adult. With some issues. Let's explore them.
MR. WAYNE: Hey. I'm reaching out here. Your plays for attention are a cry for help, aren't they?
GINGER: Uh, no.
MR. WAYNE: Is it a problem at home? With your parents?
GINGER: They think I'm cute. Mr. Wayne sighs.
MR. WAYNE: Maybe I ought to split you and your sister up.
GTNGER: Aw, c'mon Mr. Wa-ayne. Divide aii' conquer? That's so old.
MR. WAYNE: Hey. You're antisocial, antagonistic, and now violent. The point of high school is you learn to develop a place for yourselves in society./
GINGER: 'Long as you like it.
MR. WAYNE: As long as you're at this school young lady, I better like it. Ginger gives him a cold, dead stare.
MR. WAYNE: consider this your final warning. I see you outta line again, and we're talking expulsion. And don't look at me like that, missy.
GINGER: Fuckin' guidance my ass. She pounds her fist into a locker and makes a dent. Brigitte cringes. Ginger admires the damage.
JASON: Ginger notices Jason and visibly brightens.
GINGER: Hey. whatcha doin' now?
JASON: Hey. whatcha doin' now?
GINGER: Nothin' special.
JASON: Wanna go for a ride?
GINGER: Sure. C'mon Bee. Jason and Brigitte's faces darken simultaneously.
BRIGITTE: Ginger, we should get home.
GINGER: No we shouldn't. Brigitte drags Ginger aside. Ginger notes Brigitte's hand squeezing her arm with a dangerous look.
BRIGITTE: Twenty minutes ago you coulda killed somebody. Is this really a good time to start dating? I don't think so. Ginger shakes Brigitte's hand off.
GINGER: Well, I do.
BRIGITTE: Why?! Look, grow up a little an' maybe you'll get it
GINGER: Why?! Look, grow up a little an' maybe you'll get it
BRIGITTE: Forget it, I'm goin'. I'll draw ya a picture later, 'kay? Ginger takes Jason's hand and pulls him off to the exit. Jason gives Brigitte SUCH a smug look over his shoulder. Brigitte stands alone in the hall, gaping after them.
GINGER: Forget it, I'm goin'. I'll draw ya a picture later, 'kay? Ginger takes Jason's hand and pulls him off to the exit. Jason gives Brigitte SUCH a smug look over his shoulder. Brigitte stands alone in the hall, gaping after them.
JASON: Ouch! whoa. Can't believe you never had a boyfriend. Ginger licks his blood from her own lips and freezes dead cold. Jason dives back at her for more. Ginger looks both aroused and unnerved by her arousal. Ginger's stomach growls. Ginger pushes Jason off of her.
GINGER: I have to go. It's getting late.
JASON: It's only six o'clock. Jason presses himself on her again. Ginger shoves him off, Oh. Now you get all moody on me?
GINGER: Oh. Now you get all moody on me?
JASON: Oh. Now you get all moody on me?
GINGER: Hey_ You got no idea.
GINGER: INT FITZGERALD BUNGALOW - NIGHT Brigitte descends the stairs to her room. Music blasts from the basement.
GINGER: ( yelling over noise ) Stop screaming or I'll rip your permed head right off you neck. An' ya know what? I can do that. Now open wide Ginger force-feeds Trina something on a spoon. Trina screams with her mouth full, trying to spit it back out. Ginger offers Trina a glass of milk.
GINGER: Chaser? No?
BRIGITTE: Ginger WHAT are you doing-! Ginger grins and shows Bee a bowl of crushed glass and tacks.
GINGER: Jus' like you said, Bee! S' perfect! Brigitte grabs the bowl away: glass shards and tacks rain around them.
BRIGITTE: Are you crazy?!
GINGER: Hey! I'm Join' this for you! As the sisters argue, Trina rocks the chair back and forth, trying to free herself.
GINGER: Yer still burnt over Jason!
GINGER: You sayin' I'm stupid?!
BRIGITTE: I'm sayin' she? Will tell on you! This is someone who will Trina throws herself forward again and her toes connect firmly with the floor - just as her temple connects with a sickening CRACK on the sharp corner of the desk. The milk glass dumps on top of her.
GINGER: Ginger grabs her own right arm ( most damaged by the original attack ) and shudders with pain.
GINGER: Ow. Ow. Owchee-wow-ow. Brigitte takes Trina in from head to toe. Brigitte checks Trina for a pulse. Brigitte snaps her hand back as though it were burned. A tremor wracks Brigitte's body and she convulses. Brigitte runs to the bathroom. OFF SCREEN, Brigitte throws up. Meanwhile Ginger raises her afflicted hand. The hand is nowsomething clearly on the way to being a wolfen paw. The nails are black, curling claws. Oblivious, Brigitte climbs back into bed and covers her face with a pillow.
BRIGITTE: My life is basically over.
GINGER: Bee. ..BEE! Awestruck, they both watch as Ginger extends and retracts her: new set of claws. There is a knock at the door. The girls look at one another in mute horror. Ginger addresses the door.
GINGER: PAMELA ( O/S ) Are you two fighting?!
GINGER: GINGER SNAPS -WALTON/July 15. 1996 61
HENRY: The gynecologist called. Pamela grasps Ginger's gnarly arm and squeezes it through her sleeve. Brigitte and Ginger look at Pamela's hand.
PAMELA: There's something wrong, Ginger. He wants to do an ultra-sound!
HENRY: Pamela, don't scare her. How could the cells not be human cells? we'll send you to somebody else.
PAMELA: I'm sure your father's right. I'm just upset. How are you feeling, do you feel. all right?
GINGER: Um. sure. Fine.
PAMELA: ( lowering her voice ) No unusual discharge or anything like that? Henry, Brigitte and Ginger groan.
PAMELA: I worry, all right? I've made another appointment with a new doctor. Early next month was the earliest he could see you. okay?
GINGER: They all begin eating in silence. Except Brigitte who gags as Henry squirts ketchup all over his stew.
GINGER: Told you.
BRIGITTE: Rigor mortis. Knew we shoulda skipped dinner.
GINGER: Can we do it my way now? Brigitte hesitates, her anxieties rising.
GINGER: She won't fit unless I
GINGER: I din't kill her!
BRIGITTE: But were you gonna? There is a long pause. Ginger tries to laugh it off with,
GINGER: No. I'm not doing people. No. Brigitte takes a deep breath, nodding. She acts belief.
BRIGITTE: 'Kay. .Hurry up. Ginger drags a section of the body into the playhouse with her. Disgusting gnashing and tearing, bones snapping and other sounds of devouring are heard from within. Brigitte keeps watch. Tears appear in her eyes. The body is dragged another foot into the playhouse. Ginger is eating Trina to make her fit in the grave.
GINGER: Hm. Big Book of Monsters, hunh. Thought they were useless.
GINGER: Man, I'm not getting enough Ginger closes the bathroom door. Brigitte leaps to the door, looping one end of a noosed extension cord around the handle. The other end is tied to the door handle of the bedroom door. Brigitte checks to ensure the latter is bolted shut.
GINGER: Ginger, don't be pissed.
BEE!?: Ginger, don't be pissed.
BRIGITTE: Ginger, don't be pissed.
GINGER: Open the fuckin' door you feeb.
BRIGITTE: Ginger pounds on the door with great violence.
BRIGITTE: We have to stop it Ginge'. If we can. I`ll be back before dark. Brigitte tears the page with the plant out of her book and leaves by the window.
BRIGITTE: Shhh-it! I mean, sorry.
SAM: ( to cop ) You can see I got customers, so if that's all.
COP: Okay. Sure. For now. The cop gives Sam a final Dirty Harry squint and leaves. Sam collects himself with difficulty. So does Brigitte.
SAM: if you skipped school lookin' to score, I don't keep nothin' here at work, sweetheart.
BRIGITTE: I din't. I mean I skipped, but-/
SAM: Hey. From Mccardy's van, right? You know my girlfriend? Trina You seen her today?
BRIGITTE: You seen her today?
SAM: You seen her today?
BRIGITTE: Not today.
SAM: Fuck. She's missing.
BRIGITTE: Oh. S-sorry.
SAM: Yeah, well. Cops think I know where she is. I don't. him for a second.
SAM: Sorry, what do you care right? What do you need.
BRIGITTE: Um. Lookin' for this. She holds out the torn page. Sam takes it.
SAM: Aconitum lycoctonum? Sorry. Brigitte yanks her own hair hard. Sam smiles.
SAM: Tryin' to kill somebody? ( off her look ) Well, you know it's poisonous, right? Wolfs bane? Deadly. Be like stocking hemlock an, shit.
BRIGITTE: No, I thought it did something else. Doesn't matter.
SAM: Anyways they're perennials - only flowers in spring. Brigitte turns to leave, hot with frustration, huinilliation. Sam watches her stamp toward the door.
SAM: Hey. Ranunculaceae come in about a hundred species. I've gotta cousin, monkshood. Not so toxic. If you're interested.
SAM: Don't know if it'd help.
SAM: S'called monkshood 'cause people used to think it kept 'em pure from dirty thoughts. Seriously.
BRIGITTE: ( EARNESTLY ) Make my life easier. Sam laughs. Surprised by this, Brigitte smiles and hides under her hair.
WAYNE: Fitzgerald. Tardy! My office
NOW!: Ginger faces him with a dreadful expression.
OFFICER: If any of you have seen Trina please let us know. She went for a run this morning and has not returned or contacted her family or friends.
WAYNE: Sit down, Ginger.
GINGER: I can't stay.
GINGER: An' I said ./
WAYNE: ( cutting her off ) You are expelled. This is not your personal playground, this is a school.
GINGER: Oh dear.
GINGER: Don't ever fuck with me like that again.
BRIGITTE: You .got out. Brigitte gapes at all the blood. Ginger is very agitated.
GINGER: He asked for it. Was gonna expel me. So. Backing away, Brigitte trips over Mr. Wayne's foot sticking out from under the desk.
GINGER: What do we do, Bee? What do we Brigitte sinks into a chair looking completely traumatized. Ginger hops about - charged by the kill.
GINGER: C'mon we need a fuckin' plan The school bell goes off. Brigitte snaps out of her daze, reaches up and hits the light switch off. They now sit in virtual darkness.
BRIGITTE: Last bell. wait till everyone goes. We'll stuff him someplace. Clean this up. I guess. The sound of the full halls around them seems very loud now.
GINGER: Bee, gotta a smoke? Brigitte hands her a smoke.
GINGER: Sorry about this.
BRIGITTE: Don't be mad, ' kay?
GINGER: Don't be mad, ' kay?
BRIGITTE: I'm not mad.
BRIGITTE: Stay here. Lock the door. I'll knock once. Ginger nods. Brigitte slips out and creeps down the corridor. Ginger shuts the door. Then Ginger whips it open again.
GINGER: Brigitte blinks at her, then continues to skulk away. The office door shuts and the lock locking reverbs after her.
BRIGITTE: Brigitte blinks at her, then continues to skulk away. The office door shuts and the lock locking reverbs after her.
WHATI: Brigitte blinks at her, then continues to skulk away. The office door shuts and the lock locking reverbs after her.
GINGER: Brigitte blinks at her, then continues to skulk away. The office door shuts and the lock locking reverbs after her.
VENT: Ginger breaks the fire extinguisher out of it's case and unleashes foam into the halls.
GINGER: STOP IT! Just stop. Enough, Ginger. Please. Please. Ginger throws the canister any way, forcing Brigitte to dive out of the way. SMASH! Glass rains down over. Brigitte. Brigitte lifts her head in time to see Ginger burn down the hall looking for more mischief. Brigitte curls into a fetal position, burying her face in her lap and rocks herself. Brigitte sobs. OFF-SCREEN we hear Ginger cont.inuing her ram a e else where in the school. Brigitte wanders up to the janitor's cart, looking like a plane crash survivor - dazed and wretched. Brigitte picks up a bottle of cleaning fluid. She sniffs it. She closes her eyes and tips it back. She washes it around in her mouth and lifts her chin to swallow. She spews it into the air, the taste making her heave instinctively. she dry heaves a couple of times. She throws the bottle at the wall.
BRIGITTE: STOP IT! Just stop. Enough, Ginger. Please. Please. Ginger throws the canister any way, forcing Brigitte to dive out of the way. SMASH! Glass rains down over. Brigitte. Brigitte lifts her head in time to see Ginger burn down the hall looking for more mischief. Brigitte curls into a fetal position, burying her face in her lap and rocks herself. Brigitte sobs. OFF-SCREEN we hear Ginger cont.inuing her ram a e else where in the school. Brigitte wanders up to the janitor's cart, looking like a plane crash survivor - dazed and wretched. Brigitte picks up a bottle of cleaning fluid. She sniffs it. She closes her eyes and tips it back. She washes it around in her mouth and lifts her chin to swallow. She spews it into the air, the taste making her heave instinctively. she dry heaves a couple of times. She throws the bottle at the wall.
JASON: Well, well well..
JASON: The fair sisters Fitzgerald.
GINGER: Hey. How's it goin'?
JASON: You tell me. Tim cracks the door and takes a look inside.
TIM: Holy shit - they trashed the The guys gawk: they are very impressed.
BOYS: Whooooaa. Fuck, unbelievable!
JASON: Ginger, I had no idea.
GINGER: What can I say. I had an urgo.
JASON: Cool. But. This is ya know, uh, a bit of a problem. What's gonna happen when they start lookin' for the ah, people responsible? Brigitte glares at Ginger.
GINGER: You won't tell.
JASON: Oh I might.
GINGER: No you won't.
BRIGITTE: Ginger -?
GINGER: Shut up. Shut up. ( to Jason ) How ' bout a deal.
JASON: Have to be sweet.
GINGER: You keep our lil' secret and I do you. All a' you. Brigitte slumps against the wall.
JASON: Jason gets the eager nod from his gang.
TIM: Jason gets the eager nod from his gang.
JASON: Jason gets the eager nod from his gang.
JASON: Okay, let's go.
GINGER: Not now - I'm a mess. We're ( making this up as she goes ) having a Halloween party at. our place, Friday night. We'll do it Yeah, right Saturday. You'll I won't ditch. But you guys say a word about this to any one, - and there's no action. So it's up to you. You stay quiet, you score. You don't - phhtt - nice knowin' ya.
JASON: Yeah, right Saturday. You'll I won't ditch. But you guys say a word about this to any one, - and there's no action. So it's up to you. You stay quiet, you score. You don't - phhtt - nice knowin' ya.
GINGER: I won't ditch. But you guys say a word about this to any one, - and there's no action. So it's up to you. You stay quiet, you score. You don't - phhtt - nice knowin' ya.
JASON: He extends his hand to shake on it. Linger shakes it awkwardly with her good hand. Brigitte thumps her head against the wall.
GINGER: C'mon Bee.
BRIGITTE: Shut up, leave me alone!
GINGER: They pissed me off. Brigitte opens the bathroom door.
BRIGITTE: Oh. Then they we asking for it? What about Jason an' them? Gonna kill 'em all when yer done, Ginger? 'Cause you have to take yer clothes OFF for that shit, they wanna SEE yer BODY for that shit, you gonna let like five guys live to tell how they fucked the Beast a' Bailey Downs? That could annoy you too! Ginger prods a claw into Brigitte's chest, pinning her in Think yer sooo smart? I think yer sooo jealous.
GINGER: Think yer sooo smart? I think yer sooo jealous.
BRIGITTE: Yeah, I'm jealous yer turning into a nympho. I'm so jealous yer killing people who did never did nothing to you. Yeah Ginger. Oh, wow.
GINGER: Oh, wow.
GINGER: I'm sorry, but.! Brigitte writhes in pain as Ginger's claw slices in deeper.
BRIGITTE: I'm sorry, but.! Brigitte writhes in pain as Ginger's claw slices in deeper.
BRIGITTE: Ginger?! This is me. Ginger retracts the claw, and Brigitte grabs the wound.
GINGER: Ginger hurls Brigitte against the wall. Ginger throws herself on top of Brigitte. Ginger raises her killing claw to Bri g.iLt.e' s neck.
SO?: Ginger hurls Brigitte against the wall. Ginger throws herself on top of Brigitte. Ginger raises her killing claw to Bri g.iLt.e' s neck.
GINGER: Who needs you? Brigitte is helpless and looks terrified. Ginger's face is contorted with intensity, with madness. Ginger's drooling. A drip of gob drops onto Brigitte's face.
BRIGITTE: ( very small,
PLAINTIVE ): Ginger lifts Brigitte by the shirt-front and searches her eyes. Ginger drops Brigitte to the floor and grabs her coat. Brigitte grabs Ginger's leg.
BRIGITTE: Don't, please! Brigitte struggles to hang on, to rise from the floor; Ginger's really hurt her.
BRIGITTE: Maybe we can stop it! Lemme try! Ginger kicks free.
GINGER: An' spoil my fun? I'll skin you alive first. Brigitte struggles to a point between Ginger and the window.
GINGER: No, you wake up! Nobody'll live to catch me. Yer a two-faced lil' chicken shit? Your problem, Brigitte. I don't need ya. I don't WANTCHA! So stay away from me or I'll kill you I swear I'll have you for breakfast. Brigitte backs out of Ginger's way. Ginger steps up i.o the window and climbs through. Brigitte rubs her throat, trying hard to keep breathing. Brigitte dashes to her own bed and drags an Adidas gym bag from under it. Brigitte starts grabbing clothes off the floor and jamming them into the bag.
FEMALE STUDENTS: Ginger Fitzgerald is such a slut./No kidding./The bitch.
VARIOUS STUDENTS: You hear about Trina Sinclair?/Dug her up in somebody's back yard!/oh that's so sad!/ Poor Trina, Ga-awd! As Brigitte gets closer to the building, she finds police cars and cops at the main entrance.
BRIGITTE: PRINCIPAL FARDOR is speaking with the RCMP constable who has been visiting classes. Fardor holds a hanky over his face.
FARDOR: That stench near the staff offices, what is that you think? Brigitte hedges up the steps toward the door.
OFFICER: I couldn't say, sir. Now is there anyone you suggest we talk to? Anyone with something against the school? Brigitte slips past the two men.
FARDOR: For god's sake look around you. I got 350 angry young people bored blind.Helluva day for my late . . IIEY! Brigitte stops at the threshold.
FARDOR: The hell you goin'?
FARDOR: Find your homeroom and wait. School's outta bounds until we call you in. Get! Brigitte backs down the steps, looking like she just took a good slap. She turns to confront the mass confusion around Brigitte spots Ginger dancing on the roof of a car in the lot now, surrounded by boys. Brigitte spots Sam's truck near-by.
SAM: Hey. Wolfs bane. Wanna drink? Brigitte stops and turns to face him. Sam dries his face on his sleeve and pops his passenger door. Brigitte looks around and slides in. Ginger is watching Brigitte out of the corner of her eye.
SAM: I showed up to see Trina? But she's I'm goin' strange in the head. Brigitte doesn't know what to say, so she offers his a smoke. He takes it.
SAM: Why? Why would ya do a thing like that? Brigitte examine his. face for an implication. There isn't What's unny is I dumped her that night. Feel bad about it now. Truth is, she was a pain in the ass. I sound like a jerk, BR IGITTE Really? Yeah well, while she was - disappearin', I'm off have a time at the Highway Home with my buddy Georgio. Drinkin', dealin' - an, now she's Sam is over-come again. Brigitte raises a hand to touch him, chickens out, and then scores on the second attempt. He rolls right into her arms.
SAM: What's unny is I dumped her that night. Feel bad about it now. Truth is, she was a pain in the ass. I sound like a jerk, BR IGITTE Really? Yeah well, while she was - disappearin', I'm off have a time at the Highway Home with my buddy Georgio. Drinkin', dealin' - an, now she's Sam is over-come again. Brigitte raises a hand to touch him, chickens out, and then scores on the second attempt. He rolls right into her arms.
BR IGITTE: Really? Yeah well, while she was - disappearin', I'm off have a time at the Highway Home with my buddy Georgio. Drinkin', dealin' - an, now she's Sam is over-come again. Brigitte raises a hand to touch him, chickens out, and then scores on the second attempt. He rolls right into her arms.
SAM: Really? Yeah well, while she was - disappearin', I'm off have a time at the Highway Home with my buddy Georgio. Drinkin', dealin' - an, now she's Sam is over-come again. Brigitte raises a hand to touch him, chickens out, and then scores on the second attempt. He rolls right into her arms.
SAM: Sorry, this is strange. I don't even .Last time I saw her she was so mad at me. An' we did have some times, we did. Makes me sick what her last thought a' me musta been though. Their eyes meet, their faces are inches apart. Brigitte kisses him, very softly and very quickly and then pulls out. Sam looks shocked. Brigitte looks more shocked.
BRIGITTE: I'm really, um. Sam leans in and kisses her right back. Better. Longer.
SAM: Shit. Sorry. Kinda freaked. You know? I shouldn't, well.
BRIGITTE: Yeah. Yeah.
SAM: But that was really nice.
BRIGITTE: Oh. 'Kay. Good. They sit staring straight ahead a moment. A cop ahead double- takes them, and reaches into his car for the radio mic.
SAM: You wanna lil' dube or somethin'? Listenin' to me go on like a loser-What's yet- GINGER SNAPS - WALTON/July 22, 1996 86
BRIGITTE: Brigitte. Fitzgerald. No, that's okay. I need more monkshood.
SAM: Yes! Dirty thoughts! oh. I been drinkin'. Should not drive. Right, Brr-igitte? Brigitte drags her hands over her face with extreme anxiety.
BRIGITTE: Oh, right. OK. Ur.
SAM: Ginger's yer sister right? Sam grimaces as Brigitte nods.
BRIGITTE: Oh, rumors - say she's doin' all these guys at some party. Goias' around she's a big time ho', that kinder thing. Hey. Don't worry about it. Nobody mentioned you. Ginger's most maniacal laugh drifts over to them. Brigitte sees her dancing sexily on the roof of a car with a whole crowd of leering boys.
SAM: Oh, rumors - say she's doin' all these guys at some party. Goias' around she's a big time ho', that kinder thing. Hey. Don't worry about it. Nobody mentioned you. Ginger's most maniacal laugh drifts over to them. Brigitte sees her dancing sexily on the roof of a car with a whole crowd of leering boys.
CROWD: C'mon Ginger! Take it off!
GINGER: You wish!
CROWD: Hey Ginger? Watcha doin' later? Can we come to yer bash?! Ginger stops dancing. Anger floods her face.
GINGER: You know about that?
BOYS: Sure, everybody knows! Can I bring my cousin?
SAM: Like to see ya again. Can I come to yer party too?
BRIGITTE: sh-sure. Sorry. I gotta - Ginger, so. Brigitte slips out of the truck as they stare at one another with that look you get when you're scared because you just kissed someone you really, really like.
GINGER: All a' you guys?! My house! ( very sinister ) I wanna party with everybody. we'll do it till you drop.
CROWD: ALL RIGHT, GINGER:::! WHO00- The crowd applauds. Brigitte stares at Ginger like she's watching a cruise missile coming in. Ginger notices Brigitte watching her. Ginger pretends she doesn't see her.
HOO!: The crowd applauds. Brigitte stares at Ginger like she's watching a cruise missile coming in. Ginger notices Brigitte watching her. Ginger pretends she doesn't see her.
COP: Sam McDonald? You're under arrest for the murder of Trina Brigitte physically fights with herself not to yell out. She runs a few steps toward Sam. Brigitte looks back at Ginger, who drills her with an evil warning glare. The cops shove Sam into the back of a cruiser. They roar Brigitte stands alone, apart from the crowd. The cruisers' flashing lights disappear down the street. Brigitte turns to face Ginger, mustering her own first menacing look. Ginger accepts a cigarette offered by one of her boys.
PAMELA: Now just remember, no boys in you bedroom during this party. Your room is off limits. Ginger are you sure that arm's not sprained, or worse?
GINGER: Bruise. Lacrosse.
PAMELA: Mm Henry when'd you get this new meat from Tinny's? Quite nice. Brigitte and Ginger exchange a look.
HENRY: I haven't been to Tinny's.
PAMELA: Then where's all the packs marked "t" come from -? Brigitte spits out her food.
BRIGITTE: I be excused?
BRIGITTE: ( speaking very
QUICKLY ): Sam McDonald is not the Beast of Bailey Downs. He was at the Highway Home Motel when Trina Sinclair was killed. Sam didn't do it.
HENRY: That Sinclair girl was found at the Bernstein's, can you believe What, last night? I didn't hear a thing! Never going to have these done in time. Henry help. Pamela is feverishly creating little straw witches and such party decorations. She has a se]ecl.i.on of dried flowers, wheat etc on the table before her.
PAMELA: What, last night? I didn't hear a thing! Never going to have these done in time. Henry help. Pamela is feverishly creating little straw witches and such party decorations. She has a se]ecl.i.on of dried flowers, wheat etc on the table before her.
PAMELA: Brigitte, honey we're thrilled you two are making friends. But next time you two do something like this give Mummy a little more notice, will you? Hate having to scramble. Brigitte slides into her regular chair and props her hands on her wrists in an attitude of complete distraction.
HENRY: What's your sister up to? Brigitte looks at Henry as he works on a little witch.
PAMELA: She said she had a lot of work to do on her costume. Should we dress up, you think? Henry grimaces. He sifts through the dried plants before them. Brigitte double-takes the pile.
BRIGITTE: What is this stuff?
PAMELA: Just weeds, old cuttings from the yard.
BRIGITTE: No, THIS stuff. Brigitte plucks out a handful of dried plant with tiny purple Oh, I had that around the dahlias. Man at the greenhouse said it'd keep the cats out. Seemed to do the job. It's got a funny name - nun's robe, priest hat, something
PAMELA: Oh, I had that around the dahlias. Man at the greenhouse said it'd keep the cats out. Seemed to do the job. It's got a funny name - nun's robe, priest hat, something
BRIGITTE: That's right. Do we have a budding botanist in the family?!
PAMELA: That's right. Do we have a budding botanist in the family?!
HENRY: Pun intended. Pamela giggles as does Henry. Brigitte grabs a fistful of monkshood and races for the door.
PAMELA: Hey, we need that! Brigitte! But Brigitte is gone.
PAMELA: That was my accent colour!
JASON: Hey. Must be the place, right? Brigitte sneers at him. He holds a half-gone bottle of schnapps, a dress shirt and his Good Jeans on. The toilet flushes in the john. Brigitte knocks on the door.
GINGER: McCardy's here. The bathroom door unlocks but. remains closed.
WHAT1: McCardy's here. The bathroom door unlocks but. remains closed.
BRIGITTE: McCardy's here. The bathroom door unlocks but. remains closed.
GINGER: Git in here an, gimme a hand. Brigitte casts an uncertain look at Jason.
JASON: C'mon ladies, there's six other guys sitting in the shrub Brigitte's face darkens. She slips into the bathroom and shuts the door.
GINGER: Don't say a fuckin' word. Ginger lowers the towel she's wearing enough to show the bump on her butt is now a twitching tail. Brigitte gasps.
GINGER: Take this gauze and tie it flat.
BRIGITTE: Ginger, you can't
GINGER: DO IT! Brigitte takes the roll of gauze. She grabs the tail between her fingers and coils it up with utter disgust. Brigitte's hands tremble.
DO IT!: Brigitte takes the roll of gauze. She grabs the tail between her fingers and coils it up with utter disgust. Brigitte's hands tremble.
GINGER: Now get outta my life. Brigitte grits her teeth.
BRIGITTE: I gotta get ready for the party.
GINGER: Then wait here till I'm done.
BRIGITTE: What, through all fifty a' them?
GINGER: Oh, don't tempt me. Ginger takes a deep breath before she opens the bathroom door. Her breath is ragged. She smoothes her hair and chews her lip. She's nervous. Ginger opens the door and closes it behind her.
HENRY: ( to Pamela ) Notice any girls? Pamela shrugs.
SAM: They let me go. No evidence: someone called in this tip.
BRIGITTE: Hey, you gotta get outta here -/ Ginger emerges from the bedroom like a reigning diva, and the room stops dead. Brigitte drops her glass of punch. Ginger has come out as herself, as an almost full-blown werewolf. She wears a Lill Red Riding Hood cape jobbie and a plastic mask. She's the best looking monster you ever laid eyes on. Down her belly she has six perfect nipples showing and everything. The room bursts into a_cheerinq round of applause.
HENRY: ( to Pamela ) Told you. She's a arts-type, for chrissakes, look at that.
PAMELA: She's very good, isn't she?
SAM: ( to Brigitte ) Wow, yer sister's gone to town.
BRIGITTE: Yeah, she's gone all right. Hey. can you do me a favor?
SAM: Can you give somethin' to Ginger for me? Jus' - we're Navin' a fight, but I got this thing for Yeah, what. Brigitte shows him what appears to be a joint. Sam takes it.
BRIGITTE: Can you give somethin' to Ginger for me? Jus' - we're Navin' a fight, but I got this thing for Yeah, what. Brigitte shows him what appears to be a joint. Sam takes it.
SAM: Yeah, what. Brigitte shows him what appears to be a joint. Sam takes it.
SAM: Oh, okay.
SAM: Gonna miss me Bee F.? Brigitte smiles, embarrassed and freaking at the exact same Be right back.
SAM: Be right back.
PAMELA: one minute young lady, I could use a little help here.
PAMELA: I have to get two more veggie trays down those stairs. I think your sister' 11 be fine for two minutes. Pamela is already marching Brigitte up the stairs. Brigitte strains to get back. Looking between her mother and her closed bedroom door, desperately.
PAMELA: All these boys came to see you two, least you can do is stop hiding in your room. Honestly, you act like someone'd forced this party down your throat. Now go be nice. Pamela stands between Brigitte and the bedroom door, her arms Mother. You don't understand.
BRIGITTE: Mother. You don't understand.
PAMELA: YesI do. I was shy too at your age. Mingle.
SAM: okay, cut it out now.
GINGER: This dope's fucked. Makin' me blaarrggh. C'mon. I'll do ya.
SAM: No thanks. Told yer sister I'd be right back.
GINGER: What's up your ass?!
SAM: Don't get mean, s'nothin' personal. I happen to think Brigitte's pretty cool. and -/
GINGER: Leave my baby sister alone. Do me, don't hurt her.
SAM: I won't hurt her. Now be a good girl and finish up your joint.
GINGER: oh. Well fuck you. Ginger takes a big toke as she paces between Sam and the door. Suddenly she's coughing uncontrollably, rubbing her eyes, wailing in pain.
GINGER: Burning! What is this?! Sam makes a move toward her and Ginger blindly lashes out at him. Ginger hurls Sam into the bed. Sam's flight path knocks the mattress askew: dozens and dozens of dog collars pour out over him. Sam fingers one in particular.
SAM: Morely -?!
COW GUY: Do you think this is a faggy costume for a guy? You can just say. I dunno I been gettin' funny looks. What, like we aren't advanced enough that a guy can show up completely in the spirit of the thing with an udder, an' not get treated like a freakin' fruit? Brigitte looks at her watch. Pamela is dragged off into the throng by a band of juveniles singing Do The Hustle. Brigitte makes her move at last.
COW GUY: Brigitte makes a badly-faked would-be casual bee-line for their bedroom door. Brigitte wiggles the knob. It's locked.
BRIGITTE: You bitch! Brigitte discovers Ginger sitting in the tub floor under the running shower, weeping. Her eyes are swollen. Ginger is now covered in coarse hair. The water around her is full of blood. There is a kitchen knife next to her. Ginger's stoned numb on the monkshood dose. She's groggy and weak.
BRIGITTE: Oh no. Oh no. Fuck, fuck! Ginger doesn't move. Ginger looks so pathetic, it's heart- breaking. Brigitte snatches the knife away and shuts off the Nobody'll want me now any ways. Brigitte takes in the cut, the rest of the monstrosity her sister has become.
GINGER: Nobody'll want me now any ways. Brigitte takes in the cut, the rest of the monstrosity her sister has become.
GINGER: I don't wanna do this any more. Brigitte yanks Ginger out of the tub and grabs a towel, Press this on the cut! Ginger! Move, c'mon!
BRIGITTE: Press this on the cut! Ginger! Move, c'mon!
GINGER: I missed you Bee. I'm sorry. Brigitte searches Ginger's face.
BRIGITTE: Ginge'? That you in there? Ginger cracks an uncertain, pained smile. Brigitte does too, an exact replica, in fact.
GINGER: Ya feeb. Brigitte gently turns Ginger around to try and deal with her tail. Ginger is woozy and weak from blood loss.
BRIGITTE: okay. I can't clean this one up. We have to go. Like Go, go. Can you do it?
GINGER: I'm so woozy. Brigitte glances out into the bedroom.
BRIGITTE: Um. Ever bite something you din't kill?
GINGER: ( misinterpreting the question - hopeful ) Wanna be one with me?
BRIGITTE: Ah. No. Sam? Isn't dead.
GINGER: Oooh nooo.
BRIGITTE: Don't worry. Keep pressing. T'll be right back.
BRIGITTE: Hey. Sorry. I really did think you were. Like. Not bad. So you know, whatever. Any ways. I'm really sorry - I have to. Sam moans as his good eye rolls up at her. Brigitte blinks away tears and looks away, collecting herself. Brigitte raises the bat over her head and swings it down as
PAMELA: Girls? You in there? You're not being very sociable. There's no answer. She tries the knob, and is surprised to find it unlocked. She opens the door. She turns on the Pamela takes in the bloody muck everywhere. The room is deserted. No Sam. No sisters Fitzgerald. Just gore. Pamela swoons and drops like a deadweight to the floor. Henry rushes up, looking in over his wife's body. The boys in costume crowd in behind him.
HENRY: Pamela, honey, it's just a prank, you know how they. ( he fingers some
GORE ): Holy mother of - it's warm. Where are my kids?!!
HENRY: Sam McDonald?
BRIGITTE: Ginger?! Don't eat the body okay? I got this idea, an' we'll need Sam. Brigitte floors it and the truck blasts down their cul du sac to the main road.
BRIGITTE: Fuck, fuck fuck, FUCK.
BRIGITTE: Ha! All rightie then. Brigitte drives on. What she cannot see behind her in the grate are the glimpses of Ginger in the flickering lights of the passing street lamps. Her final spurt of transformation is taking place: FLASH! Her face is filling in with fur. FLASH! Her eyes glow golden, yellow, wolfen. FLASH! Her face pulls into a wet snout. FLASH! A long pink tongue lolls out between glistening white EXT. THE HILLCREST - NIGHT The truck rolls to the crest of the hill over Bailey Downs - the sight of the bush party. The moon is immense up here. You could almost touch it.
BRIGITTE: okay, Ginger? They'll think that Sam took us from our room, right? 'Cause of his record an, the arrest, right? We're gonna make this look like he did, any ways. He got us, maybe killed us, took our bodies to do some unspeakable thingy. But then? Sam killed himself. You follow? Ginger doesn't answer.
BRIGITTE: So boom, diversion. Meanwhile you an, me hit the highway. we can hitch, get you cleaned up. By the time the find out we weren't in Sam's clutches at all, we could be any wheres. Yeah? Whatcha think? Ginger doesn't answer.
BRIGITTE: It'll work. ( I hope. ) Brigitte puts the brake on but does not cut the engine.
BRIGITTE: Ginger? C'mon, we got move. Shove Sam down here. Brigitte climbs up into the truck, reaching for something on its floor. Brigitte f itids Sam's prone feet. An animal/Ginger launches out at her, knocking her back, out, clear of the truck. Ginger isn't Ginger any more - what we can glimpse in the darkness is an attack by a creature much like the one that bit Ginger. And it's attacking Brigitte. Brigitte flails, kicks and punches at it. She breaks free and clambers at the tool rack on the inside panel of the truck. She grabs a shovel as the creature comes snarling up at her.
BRIGITTE: Stop. I mean it. It lunges at her again and Brigitte clocks it. It slides, dazed, off the back of the truck to the ground.
BRIGITTE: Nice one. Brigitte returns to where It/Ginger was last seen on the ground. The shovel and blanket are there. A bloody pool trails off into the woods. Brigitte hefts the shovel warily, shoulders the blanket, and follows the wetness shining in the INT. TREES/HILLCREST - NIGHT Fuck Ginger. Leave a fuckin' trail much? Could leave everybody a fuckin' map. Tense seconds pass as she searches through the scrub and trees, shovel ready. we can hear panting and growling.
BRIGITTE: Fuck Ginger. Leave a fuckin' trail much? Could leave everybody a fuckin' map. Tense seconds pass as she searches through the scrub and trees, shovel ready. we can hear panting and growling.
BRIGITTE: I won't hurt you if you don't hurt me. 'Kay? Ginge'? 'Kay? Brigitte spots something ahead and lowers the shovel as she approaches it. It/Ginger cowers in the brush, collapsed. Her head and tail are bleeding. Brigitte drops to her knees nest to her sister, frantic with grief.
BRIGITTE: Oh no. Ginger. I didn't mean
TO: It/Ginger is gasping, fading. Her eyes start rolling back in her head. Brigitte's hand is shaking as it reaches out but can't touch her. Ginger licks Brigitte's fingers, slowly. Brigitte buries her face in Ginger's ruff, moaning.
BRIGITTE: You can't, you can't, we're out. You can't, don't don't do this to me. Not now. Look, look it's all taken care of. we're Unsolved Mysteries!
THE END: Writers : Karen Walton
