GLADIATOR: David Franzoni Revised by John Logan
SECOND DRAFT: October 22, 1998 "While stands the Colosseum, Rome shall stand. When falls the Colosseum, Rome shall fall. And when Rome falls the World." FADE IN: EXT. FOREST - DAY Germania. The far reaches of the Roman Empire. Winter 180 A.D. Incongruously enough, the first sound we hear is a beautiful tenor voice. Singing. A boy's voice. CREDITS as we hear the haunting song float through dense forests. We finally come to a rough, muddy road slashing through the forest. On the road a GERMAN PEASANT FATHER is herding along three sickly looking cows. His two SONS are with him. His youngest son sits on one of the cows and sings a soft, plaintive song. They become aware of another sound behind them on the road the creak of wood, the slap of metal on leather. The Father immediately leads his cattle and his sons off the road. They stand-still, eyes down: the familiar posture of subjugated peoples throughout history. A wagon train rumbles past them. Three ornate wagons followed by a mounted cohort of fifty heavily-armed
COMMODUS: Do you think he's really dying? The woman across from him returns his gaze evenly. She is slightly older, beautiful and patrician. A formidable She is LUCILLA.
LUCILLA: He's been dying for ten years.
COMMODUS: I think he's really dying this time. A beat. Their breath turns instantly to mist.
COMMODUS: He has to be bled every night now.
LUCILLA: How do you know that?
COMMODUS: I've been so informed. She arches an eyebrow.
COMMODUS: If he weren't really dying he wouldn't have sent for us.
LUCILLA: ( a smile ) Maybe he just misses us.
COMMODUS: And the Senators. He wouldn't have summoned them if
LUCILLA: Peace, Commodus. After two weeks on the road your incessant scheming is hurting my head. A beat.
COMMODUS: The first thing I shall do is honor him with games worthy of his The first thing I shall do is have a hot bath. The wagon rumbles to a halt. Voices are heard outside. Commodus leaps out.
LUCILLA: The first thing I shall do is have a hot bath. The wagon rumbles to a halt. Voices are heard outside. Commodus leaps out.
COMMODUS: Why have we stopped?
COMMODUS: ( to Soldier #1 ) Where is my father?
SOLDIER #1: He's at the front, sir.
COMMODUS: Is the battle won?
SOLDIER #1: Don't know, sir. They've been gone for eight days. Commodus tosses off his furs beneath them he wears a beautiful set of Lorica Segmentata the traditional formed armor of Rome. He moves to a horse as:
COMMODUS: ( to Soldier #1 ) My sister wants a bath, take her to the camp. ( to Soldier #2 ) Take me to my father. He leaps onto the horse and canters back to the Praetorian Guard unit. Soldier #2 climbs on his horse and leads them. Commodus rides off with most of the Praetorian Guard unit. Lucilla peeks her head from the wagon. She glances at the remaining soldiers. Distinctly unpromising.
LUCILLA: ( dry ) Civilization at last. Gods preserve EXT. HILL - TWILIGHT The mighty catapults dwarf the humans. Soldiers from the elite Felix Regiment a legion of the Roman Army haul the monstrous machines up a hill. The commanding General of the Felix Regiment, MAXIMUS, walks between two of the catapults. He is a striking and intense man in his 30's. Like all the soldiers who surround him, he is caked with mud and exhausted. He trudges up the hill with his two lieutenants, TITUS and
TITUS: You would do as well to read the mind of a rhinoceros.
QUINTUS: These barbarians would rather drown in blood than yield an inch. If I didn't hate them so much I would admire them. They have reached the top of the hill. Stunning martial preparations are underway. The catapults join ten others. Archers are taking up position. Brutal "Scorpions" devices for firing multiple crossbow bolts are being loaded. Soldiers are also loading the catapults with enormous "Greek fire pots" large, round terra cotta Maximus and his lieutenants gaze down from the hilltop. Below them they can see a German encampment.
TITUS: They simply will not surrender. A beat as Maximus gazes down at the German position.
MAXIMUS: ( quietly ) A people should know when they are A beat.
MAXIMUS: At the first signal release the catapults. We'll use the cavalry to cut off the retreat.
QUINTUS: General, I don't recommend that. Our cavalry might be caught in the I hope not, because I'm going to be leading them. A beat as he gazes down at the enemy.
MAXIMUS: I hope not, because I'm going to be leading them. A beat as he gazes down at the enemy.
MAXIMUS: Why don't they know they're already EXT. TREES - TWILIGHT Maximus and Titus are on their horses, the cavalry of two hundred Felix Regiment warriors surrounds them. Steam flares from their horses' nostrils. They wait in a thick stand of trees the German position can be seen across a muddy plain. A large wolf "The Wolf of Rome" waits at Maximus' Maximus nods to an archer. The archer lights the tip of an arrow and sends it flaming into the night sky.
QUINTUS: The mighty catapults are released. The Greek fire pots arc dramatically through the air. A moment later soldiers release the Scorpions and hundreds of bolts streak through the sky. The archers fire a murderous barrage of flaming EXT. TREES - TWILIGHT The screaming is almost immediate. Maximus and his cavalry watch as the fire pots crash down into the German encampment.
MAXIMUS: ( to his men ) Hold steady. steady. He can see the nightmare destruction of the encampment continuing fire pots and Scorpion bolts and flaming arrows panic in the German encampment.
MAXIMUS: He sees the Germans begin fleeing across the plain. He quickly raises his sword and whispers a prayer, then turns to his men:
MAXIMUS: Brothers I salute you! For Rome! He spurs his horse and races out of the trees to the EXT. PLAIN - BATTLEGROUND - TWILIGHT Maximus leads the terrifying and relentless cavalry charge Titus at his side the Felix Regiment screams out fearsome war cries as they gallop across the muddy plain toward the Germans Fire pots and flaming arrows are crashing down everywhere around them The cavalry SLAMS into the Germans at full gallop It is carnage. The Felix Regiment warriors slash ruthlessly with short swords slicing a path of sheer destruction through the Germans but the Germans fight with equal brutality and the Germans also fight with the desperation of a hopeless last chance they pull and spear Roman soldiers off horses whenever they can Maximus spins his horse and swings his sword with expert efficiency a spear stabs through the neck of his horse and it immediately collapses forward Maximus sails over the horse's head and crashes to the muddy ground he jumps up and is in the midst of the The flaming arrows and exploding fire pots create a ferocious inferno everywhere around the battle the flames silhouetting the fighting On the ground, Maximus proves his absolute worth as a warrior he hacks and dodges ghastly images of true ancient warfare Maximus' eyes burn with a zealous fire as he fights for his life He finds he is momentarily at a terrible disadvantage Germans are surrounding him from all sides as he fights he looks for an advantage for his soldiers for anything he is doomed Then an almost mystical image Maximus' wolf leaps through a wall of flame "The Wolf of Rome" savages several Germans around Maximus giving him the help he needed. The wolf and his master fight, side-by-side.
MAXIMUS: Maximus, you prove your valor again. Let us hope for the final time here.
MARCUS: Maximus, you prove your valor again. Let us hope for the final time here.
MAXIMUS: I don't think there's anyone left to There are always people left to Marcus takes Maximus' arm and they walk through the masses of bodies. Maximus holds Marcus' arm firmly, quietly supporting him as they walk.
MARCUS: There are always people left to Marcus takes Maximus' arm and they walk through the masses of bodies. Maximus holds Marcus' arm firmly, quietly supporting him as they walk.
MARCUS: But this night, at least, Germania is at last defeated. What will you do now, my friend?
MAXIMUS: Should Caesar permit, I'll go home. I've been away too long. I've forgotten my wife's face and I barely know my son. Suddenly, a tethered GERMAN PRISONER they are passing calls out to them:
GERMAN PRISONER: THIS BLOOD MEANS NOTHING, CONQUEROR! Maximus and Marcus stop. A soldier moves quickly to silence the German Prisoner.
MARCUS: ( to Soldier ) ( to Prisoner ) . You speak our language?
GERMAN PRISONER: You have been in my homeland for twelve years. Of course I speak your language. So did my son, who you murdered. So did my daughter, who you raped.
MAXIMUS: ( to Marcus ) Come, Caesar.
MARCUS: No. Let him speak. . I am Rome, what would you say to You are that sun, Rome, and your time is over. You can slit a thousand throats here, and you can put a thousand babies to the sword, but it will always be our home.
GERMAN PRISONER: ( points to sunset ) You are that sun, Rome, and your time is over. You can slit a thousand throats here, and you can put a thousand babies to the sword, but it will always be our home.
MARCUS: Now it is Rome.
GERMAN PRISONER: It will never be Rome. Not as long as one German breathes. The soldier moves to kill the insolent Prisoner.
MARCUS: No. Release him. Give him safe passage. Let him go to his family. The soldier leads the German Prisoner away. Maximus and Marcus continue walking in silence for a beat. Tell me again, Maximus, why are we For the glory of the empire, sire.
MARCUS: Tell me again, Maximus, why are we For the glory of the empire, sire.
MAXIMUS: For the glory of the empire, sire.
MARCUS: ( quietly ) Yes. I remember. They continue walking through the mountains of bodies.
MAXIMUS: They honor you, Caesar.
MARCUS: I don't think they're standing for me, Maximus. They honor you. Just then Commodus canters into view with his Praetorian Guard escort. He watches the army honor Maximus with rank envy as he nears. He rides up to Maximus and Marcus.
COMMODUS: Have I missed it? He leaps from his horse.
COMMODUS: Have I missed the battle?
MARCUS: You've missed the war. We're done Commodus embraces him, awkward.
COMMODUS: Father. Congratulations. I shall sacrifice a thousand doves to honor your triumph.
MARCUS: Spare the doves and honor Maximus, he won the battle. Commodus embraces Maximus, even more awkward.
COMMODUS: General, Rome salutes you and I embrace you as a brother.
MAXIMUS: They walk, Maximus still supporting Marcus, as:
COMMODUS: Your Spaniards seem invincible. May the Gods favor the Felix Regiment now and always. Here, Father, take my arm.
MARCUS: ( ignores this ) Where's your sister?
COMMODUS: She's at the camp. She had no desire to see the gore of the Lucilla would eat every corpse here if it brought her one step closer to the throne. Maximus laughs.
MARCUS: ( smiles ) Lucilla would eat every corpse here if it brought her one step closer to the throne. Maximus laughs.
MAXIMUS: ( smiles ) Caesar, you do the lady injustice.
MARCUS: It's a foolish old cobra who doesn't recognize his own off-spring. I think. I should ride now. Maximus waves for Marcus' horse. It is brought up. Several soldiers carefully help the old man into the saddle. He is then tethered to the brace on his saddle. It is a slow, graceful and embarrassing ordeal for the Emperor of Rome. When at last he is strapped in, he looks to Maximus.
MARCUS: So much for the glory of Rome. Without a word to his son, Marcus nods and the horse is slowly lead away. Commodus and Maximus watch him go.
COMMODUS: ( neutral ) He's dying. A beat.
COMMODUS: Poor old man.
MAXIMUS: ( terse ) If you'll excuse me, Highness. He turns and stalks away.
MAXIMUS: What, Gallus, losing your other Aye, General, they're going to make a bronze one for it. Long fingers this time.
GALLUS: Aye, General, they're going to make a bronze one for it. Long fingers this time.
MAXIMUS: And the women of your village will crave your touch even more.
GALLUS: Ah, then you know the women of my Maximus smiles and moves on. He stops at a young soldier, VALERIUS, whose head has been shaved. A hole has been bored into his skull to relieve the pressure on his brain. The young soldier is dying.
MAXIMUS: What's your name, son?
VALERIUS: Valerius, General.
MAXIMUS: The name suits you.
VALERIUS: Why am I dying? A beat. Maximus sits by his cot. He takes Valerius' You're dying because you love Rome, as I do.
MAXIMUS: You're dying because you love Rome, as I do.
VALERIUS: I've never been to Rome.
MAXIMUS: Neither have I. Rome for us lives . it's a thing inside us that came from our ancestors and that we give to our children.
VALERIUS: It must be glorious, Rome. I've only seen pictures. Is it a glorious place? A beat.
MAXIMUS: Yes, it's a glorious place.
VALERIUS: It must be. He smiles. And he is dead. Maximus sits for a moment. He gently closes Valerius' eyes. And Maximus finds that he is weeping. He is not ashamed of the tears.
FALCO: Hail, Marcus Aurelius.
MARCUS: Stand up, Senators. That unfamiliar posture doesn't suit you.
GAIUS: We live in supplication to your All the while conspiring with that fat man in Rome. How is the old Senator Gracchus is hale, sire.
MARCUS: All the while conspiring with that fat man in Rome. How is the old Senator Gracchus is hale, sire.
GAIUS: Senator Gracchus is hale, sire.
MARCUS: Still damning me to the four winds?
GAIUS: Still eager for your triumphant return to Rome, Caesar.
MARCUS: I would have silenced him decades ago but I just like him too much. Meanwhile, Maximus stands with his lieutenants, Titus and Quintus. A wound on Maximus' arm has been bound.
MAXIMUS: ( to Titus ) If you want to stay on, I support you. So do the men. I'll ask the Emperor to appoint you in my place.
TITUS: It won't be the Felix Regiment without you.
MAXIMUS: I'll return after a season at home. Maybe two.
QUINTUS: That means after three or four more And you'll be too fat from Vibia's cooking to get on your horse by Should the Gods so bless me. I would be thankful. Commodus perambulates up to them.
TITUS: And you'll be too fat from Vibia's cooking to get on your horse by Should the Gods so bless me. I would be thankful. Commodus perambulates up to them.
MAXIMUS: Should the Gods so bless me. I would be thankful. Commodus perambulates up to them.
COMMODUS: Hail, warriors. My congratulations.
COMMODUS: ( to Maximus ) My old friend, my father tells me you're returning to Spain?
MAXIMUS: A pity. I'll need men like you in my army. An awkward glance between the soldiers. This sort of talk is offensively premature.
COMMODUS: A pity. I'll need men like you in my army. An awkward glance between the soldiers. This sort of talk is offensively premature.
COMMODUS: There are larger division that might appeal to you. Even the Praetorian Guard. You've never been to Rome. Imagine arriving as head of the Praetorians! They have really splendid uniforms.
MAXIMUS: ( cold ) I'm going home. Senators Gaius and Falco join them.
GAIUS: ( to Maximus ) . And why not apply for entry to the Senate?
FALCO: A war hero with a handsome face and a strong heart could go far.
COMMODUS: General Maximus, may I present Senators Gaius and Falco. Beware of this Gaius, he'll pour a honeyed potion in your ear and you'll wake up one day and all you'll say is "Republic, Republic, Republic." Have you never considered Rome?
FALCO: Have you never considered Rome?
MAXIMUS: You've had my ear since we were children. You could be a valuable ally in the Senate.
COMMODUS: You've had my ear since we were children. You could be a valuable ally in the Senate.
GAIUS: Are you a believer in Republicanism?
COMMODUS: ( laughs ) There I warned you.
MAXIMUS: I'm a soldier, not a politician. Meanwhile, a dark eye is studying the men through a hidden slit in the tent wall. The eye is particularly drawn to If your heart lies with the people, I would back you for the Senate. I'm sure Gracchus would as well.
GAIUS: If your heart lies with the people, I would back you for the Senate. I'm sure Gracchus would as well.
COMMODUS: Not a word about that sodomite The august Senator Gracchus has been rather a gadfly on the flesh of the imperial family.
GAIUS: ( smiles to Maximus ) The august Senator Gracchus has been rather a gadfly on the flesh of the imperial family.
FALCO: He's a damned provocateur.
GAIUS: He lives under the antiquated assumption that the Senate should represent the people with vigor.
COMMODUS: I won't tolerate it. His incessant criticism exhausts me. The man can speak for five hours without taking a breath.
GAIUS: He serves Rome best when he serves it with honesty.
COMMODUS: ( sharply ) Enough. Maximus, I would like to inspect the Felix Regiment at dawn. Please arrange it.
MAXIMUS: I can't do that.
COMMODUS: Excuse me?
MAXIMUS: My men have been fighting for five solid days. They're too busy dying to go on dress parade. A beat. Commodus' eyes flash fire at this public rebuke. He very quickly gets control.
COMMODUS: ( smiles ) Of course, how foolish of me. Some other time. He notes his father being helped out of the tent by several body slaves.
COMMODUS: Caesar retires early tonight.
MARCUS: If only you had been born a man. She turns to him. He leaves his body slaves and goes to What a Caesar you would have made.
LUCILLA: What a Caesar you would have made.
MARCUS: What a Caesar you would have made.
LUCILLA: You're right.
MARCUS: I think you would have been strong. I wonder if you would have been I would have been what you taught me to be. A beat. They stare at each other. He finally smiles.
LUCILLA: I would have been what you taught me to be. A beat. They stare at each other. He finally smiles.
MARCUS: Well, pretend to be my loving daughter tonight and walk with me to my chamber. She smiles and takes his arm. They slowly walk down the tent corridor as:
MARCUS: This is a pleasant fiction, isn't They disappear into darkness.
MAXIMUS: ( bows ) Marcus holds out a scroll.
MARCUS: Read this.
MAXIMUS: I never acquired the art, sir.
MARCUS: Of course. No matter. In this letter I denote my intention to nominate you to stand for the Emperorship after my death. A stunned pause. Maximus stares at him.
MARCUS: My son is not a moral man. You have known this since you were young. He cannot rule.
MAXIMUS: Caesar, I am honored but
MARCUS: For twenty years I have been spilling blood. For twenty years I have written philosophy and ruminated and conquered. Since I became Caesar I have only had four years without war. Four years of peace in twenty. So perhaps I can be. forgiven. A long beat.
MARCUS: While I have been fighting, Rome has grown mad and corpulent and diseased. I did this. And now I shall make it right.
MAXIMUS: Sire, you brought the light of the Gods to barbarian darkness. You brought civilization and justice to the farthest
MARCUS: ( fierce ) I have brought the sword nothing more! Rome is far away and we shouldn't be here. What matter is it to the Gods if we subdue one more tribe of Parthians or Gauls? What matter is it to Rome if a thousand more barbarians bend to our lash? A beat. Marcus sits. He doesn't look at Maximus. A pause.
MARCUS: Winter, Maximus. It's winter now. A beat.
MARCUS: There was a dream that was Rome. I can only whisper of it now. Anything more than a whisper and the dream vanishes. It's so. fragile. The true glory of Rome is in a very fragile idea. Imagine a place devoted to the rights of the citizen. Where every free man has a voice. That was the dream. And I fear it will not survive the winter. He holds out a hand to Maximus. Maximus takes his hand, deeply moved, kneeling.
MARCUS: Let's just whisper here, you and I.
MAXIMUS: Yes, Caesar.
MARCUS: If the dream is ever to live again the people must have a true voice. The voice I took from them. That all the Caesars took from them, bit by bit, conquest by conquest. And now that I am dying I am going to give them that voice again.
MAXIMUS: You're not dying.
MARCUS: I am, Maximus. It's strange. I find as I near the end I think little of the waning moments around me. instead I think much of the past. and of the future. How will the world speak my name in years to come? Will I be known as the philosopher? The warrior? The tyrant? Or will there be a more golden sounding to my name? Will I be the Emperor who gave Rome back her freedom? A beat.
MARCUS: Before I die I will give the people this final gift. I will give them the Senate reborn. The voice of the people empowered again, as it was always meant to be. It is my design that they will elect the next Emperor. And I would put forward your name with my backing.
MAXIMUS: Caesar, you do me honor but your son has pride of place for You are the son I should have had. Although I fear in my deepest heart that if you had truly been my son my blood would have polluted you as it did Commodus. We're a cursed bloodline. We have lived so long in power and depravity that we no longer remember a life without it. We can no longer even imagine a life without it. A beat.
MARCUS: You are the son I should have had. Although I fear in my deepest heart that if you had truly been my son my blood would have polluted you as it did Commodus. We're a cursed bloodline. We have lived so long in power and depravity that we no longer remember a life without it. We can no longer even imagine a life without it. A beat.
MARCUS: Look at me, son. Maximus looks at him.
MARCUS: Son. I know that one grove of your vineyard is worth more to you than all the treasures of Rome. I know one loving word from your wife is worth more than the accolades of an Empire. But. a fond old man, who loves you more than he can say, begs you to at least think about what he has said tonight.
MAXIMUS: I shall, Caesar. A beat.
MARCUS: I'll keep this letter to myself. I hope that with the sunrise you will agree. And embrace me as a father. Maximus nods and rises. He begins to go. Stops.
MAXIMUS: You have always been my father. He goes.
LUCILLA'S VOICE: He always favored you. He turns. Lucilla is waiting. She glides to him.
LUCILLA: Even over his son.
MAXIMUS: ( turning away ) That's not true.
LUCILLA: Maximus, stop. Let me see your face. He turns to her.
LUCILLA: You've been crying.
MAXIMUS: I lost too many men.
LUCILLA: What does my father intend? He turns and walks. She walks with him.
MAXIMUS: I don't know.
LUCILLA: You're lying. I could tell when you were lying even when we were children. You hate it.
MAXIMUS: I never acquired your comfort with True. But then you never had to. Maximus, stop. . Is it really so terrible seeing me again?
LUCILLA: True. But then you never had to. Maximus, stop. . Is it really so terrible seeing me again?
MAXIMUS: No. I'm sorry. I'm tired from the And you are hurt to see my father A beat.
LUCILLA: And you are hurt to see my father A beat.
LUCILLA: He will announce Commodus' succession. That's why he summoned us. Will you serve my brother as you served his father?
MAXIMUS: I will always serve the ideals of A beat.
LUCILLA: Do you know I still remember you in my prayers.? Oh yes, I pray. Ever since that day you saved me from drowning off Capri. Do you Commodus was so angry that a mere peasant a Spaniard no less touched the royal person, do you remember his anger?
MAXIMUS: Commodus was so angry that a mere peasant a Spaniard no less touched the royal person, do you remember his anger?
LUCILLA: Commodus was so angry that a mere peasant a Spaniard no less touched the royal person, do you remember his anger?
MAXIMUS: Mark this, Maximus: that is the man who will be Emperor. A beat.
LUCILLA: Mark this, Maximus: that is the man who will be Emperor. A beat.
MAXIMUS: May I be permitted to go, Highness? She smiles sadly.
LUCILLA: There was a time when you didn't call me "Highness."
MAXIMUS: And there was a time when you were just a little girl drowning in the sea. All that was a different life.
LUCILLA: ( quietly ) Very different. I wonder if it was It was more honest. A moment between them. We sense there is much to be said, much that could be said. I thank you for your prayers. He goes. She watches him walk away.
MAXIMUS: It was more honest. A moment between them. We sense there is much to be said, much that could be said. I thank you for your prayers. He goes. She watches him walk away.
MAXIMUS: I thank you for your prayers. He goes. She watches him walk away.
MAXIMUS: Ancestors, true bloodline, I ask you for your guidance. Bring me your solace and your wisdom. Blessed Mother, come to me in my dreams with the Gods' desire for my future. Blessed Father, watch over my wife and my son with a ready sword. Keep them safe until my return. Whisper to them in their sleep that I live only to hold them again and all else is dust and air. Ancestors, true bloodline, I honor you and will try to live with the dignity you have taught me. He looks at his "ancestors" for a moment and then blows out the candles around them.
COMMODUS: ( quietly ) I search the faces of the Gods for ways to please you. to make you proud. and I can never do it. One kind word one full hug where you pressed me to your chest and held me tight would have been like the sun on my heart for a thousand years. What is it in me you hate so much? My eyes are your eyes. My hands are your hands. All I have ever wanted was to live up to you. Caesar. Father. He stands. We see that he is holding the scroll denoting Marcus' intention to nominate Maximus as Emperor to the Senate. Commodus cannot control his tears.
COMMODUS: Why does Maximus deserve what I could never have? Why do you love his eyes over mine? I would butcher the whole world if you would only love me. Commodus weeps.
QUINTUS: General Maximus
MAXIMUS: Quintus ?
QUINTUS: The Emperor needs you. It's urgent. Maximus leaps up and throws on a cloak, strides out with EXT. TENT CITY - NIGHT Dead of night. Maximus and Quintus stride quickly through the sleeping camp toward Marcus' tent.
MAXIMUS: What is it? Is he ill?
QUINTUS: I don't know. They continue on toward Marcus' tent.
COMMODUS: Lament with me, brother, our great father is dead. I want Maximus, not even hearing, steps past him to Marcus. He stands for a moment and then slowly kneels before Marcus and gently kisses the old man's forehead. A ritual A moment of silent mourning and then Maximus stands. He turns very, very slowly to Commodus.
COMMODUS: General, the Gods' have taken the great man and left me alone. My first desire as Emperor is that you take my hand in friendship. I need you at my side, Maximus, at this moment above all others. Stand with Maximus glares at him:
MAXIMUS: How did he die? Commodus does not respond.
MAXIMUS: How did he die?
COMMODUS: The surgeons say it was his breath that gave out. Maximus glances to Lucilla, she avoids his eyes.
COMMODUS: Take my hand, Maximus. I only offer it once. A beat. Maximus turns back to Marcus.
MAXIMUS: How will the world speak your name now, old man? Without a glance to Commodus, he stalks out. A silent beat. Then Commodus nods to Quintus. Quintus Lucilla looks at Commodus for a long moment, her face an enigmatic tornado of complex emotions. Hail, Caesar.
LUCILLA: Hail, Caesar.
MAXIMUS: What ?!
QUINTUS: ( ashamed ) Please don't fight, Maximus
MAXIMUS: Quintus goes to Maximus' armor, which hangs nearby, and slowly removes his seal of office.
QUINTUS: I'm sorry, General, Caesar has They pull Maximus out
MAXIMUS: Quintus, what ?
QUINTUS: ( anguish ) I have no choice They are almost run over by a stern cohort of twenty Praetorians who gallop past. Maximus knows immediately what this means.
MAXIMUS: ( suddenly ) My family?! A beat.
MAXIMUS: What about my family, Quintus?
QUINTUS: ( quietly ) They will greet you in the Maximus lunges at him the Praetorians subdue him slamming him with a sword hilt knocking him ( quietly, to assassins ) Take him as far as the sunrise and then kill him.
QUINTUS: ( quietly, to assassins ) Take him as far as the sunrise and then kill him.
ASSASSIN #1: All right, this is far enough. The three other assassins climb from their horses. Assassin #2 pushes Maximus from his horse. He falls to the ground hard.
ASSASSIN #1: You two take him down there where no one will find him.
ASSASSIN #3: Come on, General. Assassin #3 and Assassin #4 drag Maximus down a densely forested hill along the road. Maximus' hands are still bound in front of him. He seems totally lacking in any EXT. FOREST - BELOW THE ROAD - DAWN Maximus eyes the two assassins as they troop down the hill away from the road, he notes their sparkling armor. The armor of men who have never seen real battle.
MAXIMUS: Have you ever done this before?
ASSASSIN #3: Killed a man with a sword?
MAXIMUS: Killed a man with a sword?
ASSASSIN #3: Not like this, exactly. this is good, you can stop. They stop. They are far down the hill, out of sight of the road.
MAXIMUS: It can be very messy you could get blood all over your armor. You don't want to hack me up now. You want one clean stroke.
ASSASSIN #3: Would you kneel, General? Maximus kneels, his whole body secretly coiling. Assassin #3 stands over him as:
MAXIMUS: One good stroke you do know where, don't you?
ASSASSIN #4: Be quiet.
MAXIMUS: If you miss the spot there'll be blood everywhere. Quite a spray.
ASSASSINS #3: All right, where?
MAXIMUS: Here you don't want to hit the vein on the neck Maximus points his bound hands at a spot on the back of his neck.
MAXIMUS: Put the point of your sword here. you want one, good blow right at this spot Assassin #3 dutifully puts the point of his sword on the spot on Maximus' neck. A grave mistake. Maximus instantly grabs the blade of the sword with his hands and yanks it from Assassin #3 EXPLODING up his hands are bleeding but he tosses the sword into the air and catches it swings the sword with brutal efficiency decapitating both assassins
COMMODUS: Even as the Gods curse this dark day with clouds, so too does the sun begin to shine forth on a promised tomorrow. Even as we mourn the passing of our father, so too do we celebrate the coming of a bright, new age for Rome. At my side, brothers, you shall pull fresh glories from the heavens. At my side, brothers, you shall know the adoration of the Gods. Doubly-dark is this day because my friend, your noble commander Maximus Meridas, has been called to Rome to deal with urgent matters of state. Titus glances quickly to Gallus, whose hand is bandaged from surgery. They know this cannot be true.
COMMODUS: Until his promised return I appointed Quintus Domitian to serve in his stead. I salute you, Hail, Caesar! The Felix Regiment responds, many unsure.
QUINTUS: ( raising his sword ) Hail, Caesar! The Felix Regiment responds, many unsure.
FELIX REGIMENT: Hail, Caesar! Commodus strides off and the Felix Regiment slowly disbands, muttering to one another in confusion. Titus and Gallus go to Quintus.
TITUS: Quintus, what is ?
QUINTUS: ( firmly ) Don't speak of it. Never speak of He stalks off. Titus and Gallus, concerned, watch him follow after Commodus.
MAXIMUS' SON: MOTHER! MOTHER! FATHER'S HOME! Maximus' WIFE emerges from the house, drying her hands on a cloth and smiles. Maximus' Son races toward the flag. He can just see the soldiers beginning to appear over the hill. Not a Roman Legion at all. Twenty Praetorians canter over the hill. Maximus' Son stops, confused.
MAXIMUS: ( weakly ) Am I in Hades?
JUBA: Juba spits what he has been chewing into his hands and moves to Maximus.
JUBA: For your wound. Maximus stares at him.
JUBA: ( nods ) For your wound. Maximus looks down the bloody wound at his side. Juba carefully places his poultice over the wound Maximus hisses in pain Juba massages the poultice into the wound gently as:
JUBA: If you die in the wagons they feed you to the lions. The lions are worth more than we are. I think we are worth more than the zebras though. So they don't feed us to Maximus stares at him. Juba looks down at him with the barest hint of a smile.
JUBA: I'm not sure about the giraffe.
SLAVE TRADER: Proximo, my old friend, see what I have for you today ! Proximo SLAMS a fist into the Slave Trader's face. The Slave Trader sails back.
PROXIMO: Those giraffes you sold me won't mate! All they do is run around not mating! YOU SOLD ME EUNUCH
GIRAFFES!!: The Slave Trader pulls himself up, hugely obsequious.
SLAVE TRADER: I will make it up to you, Master. It's bargain day for you! Look, look, look I have two lions and a panther hear how they roar for you! "Bring me home, Proximo!" Proximo examines the animals.
PROXIMO: How much for the lot?
SLAVE TRADER: For you 8,000 sesterces.
PROXIMO: For me 6,000 sesterces and I want to see their balls first. And you throw in those two slaves.
SLAVE TRADER: ( moves to Maximus ) What about this one? Look at the Proximo moves to Maximus. The Slave Trader forces open Maximus' mouth.
PROXIMO: Good teeth Proximo notes the many old battle scars on Maximus' body.
PROXIMO: Where did you get those scars? Maximus doesn't respond.
PROXIMO: Are you a soldier? Maximus doesn't respond.
PROXIMO: Do you speak?
SLAVE TRADER: 1,000 sesterces.
PROXIMO: My ass. You throw in this one and we'll make it 7,000 sesterces for the whole I have to eat, Master! He's my finest, I couldn't let him go as part of the lot for less than 9,000 I tell you this one is prime. He's a Spaniard and killed fourteen of my men before he could be subdued! Proximo looks at Maximus, notes the many battle scars again. The scars, and something he senses in Maximus' eyes, is enough for Proximo to consider it.
SLAVE TRADER: I have to eat, Master! He's my finest, I couldn't let him go as part of the lot for less than 9,000 I tell you this one is prime. He's a Spaniard and killed fourteen of my men before he could be subdued! Proximo looks at Maximus, notes the many battle scars again. The scars, and something he senses in Maximus' eyes, is enough for Proximo to consider it.
PROXIMO: ( to trader ) All right, let's see. The Slave Trader and his colleagues grab Maximus and bustle him across the market, unlocking his chains. Maximus has no idea what's going on. In the center of the market place, a veritable GIANT of a man sits on a small stool, a wooden sword in his hand. He is hunched over and chained to the ground by a ten foot chain shackled to his ankle. A think metal helmet is riveted around his entire head, only long turfs of hair emerging. His dim eyes stare listlessly through a slot in the helmet. The Slave Trader puts a wooden sword in Maximus' hand and shoves him toward the Giant. The Giant stands. He towers over Maximus. The Giant suddenly swings his sword he moves with remarkable quickness Maximus makes no attempt to block the blow it sends him flying to the ground. Maximus pulls himself up. The Giant moves in and hits him again Maximus recoils the Giant hits him again Maximus falls. Maximus pulls himself up. The Giant moves in again he slams him a few more times Maximus makes no attempt to protect himself he Maximus pulls himself up. The Giant is about to attack again
PROXIMO: ( to Slave Trader ) That's enough.
SLAVE TRADER: STOP! STOP! His colleagues race into the ring and haul the Giant away from Maximus. The Giant quietly sits back on his stool. Proximo studies Maximus for a moment and then glances to the Slave Trader.
PROXIMO: I'll give you 500 sesterces.
SLAVE TRADER: No no 1,000!
PROXIMO: ( laughs ) Come, don't quibble with your old friend. I'll take the lions, the panther, the Numidian and this one for 7,000. And I'll buy you the best whore in the town for two nights. She's an enormous mountain of flesh who craves a stern hand.
SLAVE TRADER: How could I say no to my old friend EXT. PROXIMO'S SCHOOL - DAY Maximus and Juba are crammed into a wagon with about ten other slaves, including a very scared and reedy SCRIBE. Other wagons are filled with exotic animals, including several lions. The wagons move through a crowded casbah and are taken through an imposing set of gates to.
PROXIMO: COME ON, YOU FILTHY BEAST! He kicks the lion in the rear as he shoves it into the Proximo's provincial school resembles nothing so much as a seedy prison. The fading grandeur of the decaying battlements and the sweeping North African architecture only slightly mitigate the brutal feel of the place. And if Maximus had any doubts as to Proximo's profession all doubts are washed away when he sees the compound. Twenty GLADIATORS are working out in the compound hacking at practice dummies and sparring. The many heavily armed guards oversee everything. The gladiators stop working out as they see the new slaves enter. They eye their potential new opponents warily. One huge, glowering gladiator VIBIUS watches with particular interest. His eye is quickly drawn to the most obvious athlete: Juba. The new slaves are herded to the middle of the compound and house slaves immediately begin throwing buckets of water on them, cleaning them. Meanwhile, Proximo shrugs off his cloak. A slave brings him wine as he give his "welcoming speech" to the new Slaves. I am Proximo, trainer of gladiators. You live and die at my pleasure. Fight well and you will live. Fight poorly and you will die. It is better to live. Slaves now toss thick handfuls of powdered lime on the new slaves they cough and clench their eyes shut, the lime coats and stings their wet bodies.
PROXIMO: Slaves. I am Proximo, trainer of gladiators. You live and die at my pleasure. Fight well and you will live. Fight poorly and you will die. It is better to live. Slaves now toss thick handfuls of powdered lime on the new slaves they cough and clench their eyes shut, the lime coats and stings their wet bodies.
PROXIMO: Here you will be trained in the art of combat. Here you will be given the tools to survive. Please my patrons in the arena and all the gifts of the world will be showered upon you. Imagine riches beyond your paltry dreams of riches! Imagine fame beyond your rude understanding of the word! All this can belong to the select few who prove their worth in the arena. Slaves throw more water on the new slaves washing off the lime.
PROXIMO: If. on the other hand. you disappoint me. you will be dismembered and fed to my jackals limb by limb. He gazes evenly at his new acquisitions.
PROXIMO: And my jackals are always hungry. He strides off and the guards shove the new gladiators toward their cells.
JUBA: Have you killed a man before? Maximus does not respond.
JUBA: You should eat. You'll need your strength tomorrow. Maximus does not respond.
JUBA: I've never killed a man. But I think you have. Maximus does not respond.
JUBA: I almost killed once. The Romans destroyed my village. I was with a hunting party and when we returned. I would have killed every Roman in the world. A long beat.
JUBA: If you don't eat you will die. Maximus does not respond. A beat.
JUBA: In the village I come from there was a man once. He went fishing one day and his boat was attacked by crocodiles. One of them ate his leg. He pulled himself to the shore and a lion attacked him. It ate one of his arms. He dragged himself through the desert on the way home and a scorpion stung his eye. So he only had one eye. When he reached the village I sat with him. I said, "You have lost a leg, an arm and one eye. You must have a mighty will to live." He said, "No, Lord, it's just better than the alternative." Maximus finally looks at him.
JUBA: Life is a gift from our fathers to us. Who are you to give it up for lack of lifting a spoon? Maximus does not respond.
SCRIBE: I know nothing of armaments and warfare! I'm a scribe I write down words! I can write down seven Be still.
VIBIUS: Be still.
SCRIBE: I don't how do you hold the sword?! I've never held a sword!
VIBIUS: You point the sharp end at your opponent and you shove it in his I can't I He suddenly vomits.
SCRIBE: I can't I He suddenly vomits.
VIBIUS: ( calling to Proximo ) Proximo! You insult me with this carrion! Chain him to someone else!
PROXIMO: ( calling back ) Don't worry, noble Vibius, he won't be bothering you for long. The Scribe begins to weep. The crowds in the street jeer at the passing gladiators. Occasionally throwing trash at them. A pack of children run alongside the wagon, chanting:
CHILDREN: Dead guts! Dead guts! Dead guts! Maximus watches the children for a moment and then another sight draws his attention. Over some buildings he can see vultures circling in the distance.
PROXIMO: Some of you say you can't fight, you won't fight. They all say that. But one day you will pick up a sword and thrust it into another man. And the crowd will cheer you and love you. And you will love them for it. On that day. you will be a He stops at Maximus.
PROXIMO: In this life, we all die. All we can choose is how we die. And how we are remembered. Be remembered Drums are heard from the arena. Proximo nods to a waiting The blacksmith begins slamming shackles on the gladiator's wrists chaining them together in teams of two by a chain about four feet long. The blacksmith is about to chain Maximus to the Scribe.
PROXIMO: ( he points to Juba ) . give the Spaniard to him. Give the Scribe to Vibius. Proximo nods to Vibius, who, for reasons we shall soon see, makes no protest to being chained to the whimpering Proximo watches the blacksmith shackle Maximus and Juba together and then strides off.
JUBA: ( to Maximus ) Are we going to fight each other?
PROXIMO: Make it 600 sesterces for each How many strokes?
TRAINER #1: How many strokes?
PROXIMO: TRAINER #1 For the great Vibius, one stroke.
TRAINER #1: For the great Vibius, one stroke.
PROXIMO: Done. 400 sesterces for two In the arena: Proximo's chained teams enter the arena, five teams. Maximus and Juba are chained together. Some of the small crowd cheers for Vibius. He acknowledges the cheers. He is chained to the weeping Scribe. In the box: Trainer #1 laughs.
TRAINER #1: ( re: Vibius ) Who's he with?
PROXIMO: A Greek Scribe.
TRAINER #1: I'll raise the wager.
PROXIMO: ( smiles ) Give me odds, friend. In the arena: From the opposite end of the arena a dozen armored, very scary Andabatae thunder into the arena. Some of the crowd The Andabatae immediately race for the chained teams and the battle is on. Vibius spins into action dragging the weeping Scribe after him as he circles opponents and fights the Scribe is almost instantly killed Vibius immediately hacks through the Scribe's wrist and frees himself, as Proximo surely intended. Vibius is now free to fight alone, swinging the chain as an additional weapon. Juba's eyes dart everywhere as he tries to move with Maximus Maximus neither helps nor hinders allowing Juba to pull him along Proximo, now that his star Vibius is safe, watched Maximus and Juba closely. Juba fights well, with a strange elegance, his body flowing like liquid but he is inexperienced. He strikes a few blows and then tries to move away finally he is in trouble cornered a huge Andabata is slicing at him it is a desperate battle Juba is losing his sword is slammed away the Andabata raises his sword for the kill And Maximus strikes. With a sudden roar he EXPLODES into action he swings past Juba and blocks the blow meant for Juba then he slashes the Andabata killing him he pulls Juba after him as he fights It is a dazzling display of Maximus' skill he moves through the Andabatae at amazing speed spinning around Juba and protecting him slashing ruthlessly pulling Juba after him and commanding the battle Juba recovers a sword and they fight together. In the box: Proximo watches, smiles. A gladiator is born.
GRACCHUS: We have plague in the Hebrew Quarter and it is spreading. we have looting at the granaries. we have so much filth in the Tiber that the water is undrinkable. we have Praetorian Guard units that are demanding protection payments from the merchants at the exchange
MARCELLUS: My City Guard units have tried to curtail these excesses but no constabulary can police the entire city. And the Praetorians outnumber us two to one.
GRACCHUS: Rome dies as the Emperor plays at beneficence. At least Nero gave us Do you think he'll listen to us?
GAIUS: Do you think he'll listen to us?
GRACCHUS: It is his duty to hear the will of the Senate. Their wagon stops hopelessly stuck in a massive traffic jam of chariots, wagons and sedan chairs.
GRACCHUS: Not to mention the damn traffic!
CHILD: We honor Caesar with the laurel to show our love and appreciation for his benevolence.
COMMODUS: Caesar is honored to accept your tribute, Citizen Scholar. The child smiles and moves back to his fellows.
COMMODUS: ( to all ) It is the most sacred duty of the Emperor to oversee the education of the young. If I could leave no other legacy than the scholarship of all children my life would be blessed. Tutors, you hold the future of Rome in your hands. Teach them well so that they will bring honor to the Empire. I salute you. Commodus actually bows before them, an unimaginable honor. The tutors bow in response and herd the children out.
COMMODUS: Look at them, Senators. my truest gift to Rome.
GRACCHUS: Darling children, to be sure, now if I may proceed?
COMMODUS: ( sighs ) Very well. Commodus moves to the desk, standing over it and gazing at Marcus' scrolls as:
GRACCHUS: Caesar, your presence in Rome is an invaluable opportunity to begin correcting some of the ills that have beset the city since your father went to the wars. We would like to
COMMODUS: Peace, good Gracchus, peace. Commodus slowly begins pushing Marcus' papyrus scrolls off the desk to the floor, one by one, as:
COMMODUS: My beloved father was a careless shepherd to his flock. I shall be a good father to my children. I shall remain in Rome and show them how they are loved.
GRACCHUS: With respect, sire, the people don't need love they need law. The Senate has prepared a series of protocols to begin addressing the corruption in the city starting with basic sanitation in the Hebrew Quarter. If Caesar could study this and
COMMODUS: You see that's the very problem, isn't it, my old, old friend? My father spent all his time at study. At books and learning and As Commodus speaks he moves to the chair behind the desk, tries it, doesn't like it, nods to a slave. The chair is whisked away.
COMMODUS: He spent his twilight hours reading scrolls from the Senate. All the while, the people were forgotten.
GRACCHUS: The Senate is the people.
COMMODUS: I doubt many of the people eat so well as you do, Senator Gracchus. As Commodus speaks he moves to the bust of Marcus, studies it, doesn't like it, nods to a slave and the bust is whisked away. Lucilla watches this closely.
COMMODUS: I doubt many of the people have such splendid armor, Captain Marcellus. Or such fine mistresses, Senator Gaius. No. only their true father knows what the people need. I shall show them they are loved. I shall hold them to my bosom and embrace them tightly
GRACCHUS: Have you ever embraced someone dying of plague, sire? Commodus stops. Looks at him. A lethal moment.
COMMODUS: No. But if you interrupt me one more time I assure you that you shall. I will emulate the immortal Caesars of the past. I will give the people what they truly want. Starting this day I will draw all of Rome to the Colosseum. I will give them bread. And they will want nothing more. Startled looks between Gracchus, Gaius and Marcellus.
GRACCHUS: You want to hold games?
COMMODUS: Not just any games, Senator! A series of games that will make the Gods envious and leave my children happy! I will subsidize the arena from this day forth and I will culminate this celebration in a great spectacle the likes of which the world has never seen! A great spectacle to honor my father! Magnificent, unending weeks of festivity all in the name of Marcus A beat.
GRACCHUS: If I may, Caesar. how are you going to pay for this?
COMMODUS: That is not your concern. Gracchus ignores a warning look from Gaius.
GRACCHUS: Respectfully, sire, taxation and import duties are the exclusive province of the Senate Commodus spins on him so quickly and with such feral violence that everyone is shocked
COMMODUS: MY FATHER DESERVES TO BE HONORED AND I WILL HONOR HIM! AND THE PEOPLE WILL LOVE ME! AND THE SENATE WILL OBEY ME OR EVERY ONE OF YOU WILL BURN! BURN! BURN! I WILL HAVE He snarls like a great jungle cat and he stalks away. Senator Falco quickly follows. A dreadful silence. Gentlemen, in the future do not concern my brother with these matters. Come to me. She sweeps out. A beat.
ORDER!: He snarls like a great jungle cat and he stalks away. Senator Falco quickly follows. A dreadful silence. She sweeps out. A beat.
LUCILLA: Gentlemen, in the future do not concern my brother with these matters. Come to me. She sweeps out. A beat.
MARCELLUS: Games? He wants to hold games?
GAIUS: It's madness.
GRACCHUS: No. it's not. A beat.
GRACCHUS: He knows who Rome is. Rome is the mob. He will conjure magic for them and they will be distracted. And he will takes their lives. And he will take their freedom. And still they will roar. The beating heart of Rome isn't the marble of the Senate. It's the sand of the Colosseum. He will give them death. And they will love him for it.
PROXIMO: ( quickly ) I've wagered on you against the Celts ignore the others and go for them there are two axe-and- net and two long spear. Now the Celts aren't used to the sun so you have the advantage there. The roar of the crowd is growing, they are nearing the And keep them moving, their lungs aren't strong, ground the spears as soon as you can and then go for the ax-men. If you get all four there's an extra bonus so don't be distracted by the Spartans. Without a word to Proximo, or a moment's hesitation, Maximus strides into the arena.
PROXIMO: And keep them moving, their lungs aren't strong, ground the spears as soon as you can and then go for the ax-men. If you get all four there's an extra bonus so don't be distracted by the Spartans. Without a word to Proximo, or a moment's hesitation, Maximus strides into the arena.
VIBIUS: MOVE ASIDE! THIS IS A TABLE FOR Maximus and Juba sit. Vibius remains standing. He begins to pound on the table with his fist. Soon all the gladiators are pounding on their tables. It is a cacophonous din honoring Maximus.
MEN!: Maximus and Juba sit. Vibius remains standing. He begins to pound on the table with his fist. Soon all the gladiators are pounding on their tables. It is a cacophonous din honoring Maximus.
PROXIMO: ( holding up a plate ) The plate is filled with honeyed butterflies, their wings still moving slightly. Maximus shakes his head. Proximo pops one into his mouth. He chews as he looks at Maximus.
PROXIMO: Perhaps you'd like a woman? Maximus shakes his head.
PROXIMO: Maximus shakes his head. A beat.
PROXIMO: Maximus shakes his head.
PROXIMO: Well, I have nothing left to offer you! A man who turns down a butterfly, a woman, a boy and gold confuses me. Personally, I'd grab them all and then grab some more because the Gods are fanciful and take us at their whim. Does the Spaniard have any needs? Maximus shakes his head. A beat. Proximo studies him.
PROXIMO: You fight like a soldier. You have wounds like a soldier who has been on long campaigns. You eye the world around you like an enemy. What is your name, Roman soldier?
MAXIMUS: A beat.
PROXIMO: And nothing more?
MAXIMUS: Nothing more. A beat. Proximo watches Maximus very closely for the following:
PROXIMO: In two days we leave for Rome. Maximus' eyes suddenly flash to Proximo. He is transfixed, his eyes burning.
PROXIMO: Ah. so it's Rome you want. Well you shall have her, Gladiator. The new Emperor has ordered a series of matches to culminate in a grand spectacle. If you do well I shall become very, very rich. If you do well enough I shall set you free. Is it freedom you want? A beat. Maximus shakes his head.
PROXIMO: ( quietly ) Not even that.
MAXIMUS: ( barely controlled ) The Emperor will he be there?
PROXIMO: Oh yes. He's apparently quite mad about the games. Spending a fortune, which is, needless to say, good for me again. But what is good for you, Gladiator?
MAXIMUS: Have you how does one meet the As a gladiator?
PROXIMO: As a gladiator?
MAXIMUS: One doesn't. A beat. Proximo sees that Maximus' mind is racing.
PROXIMO: One doesn't. A beat. Proximo sees that Maximus' mind is racing.
PROXIMO: Except. If one has proven oneself in battle. If at the end of the games you are the final man standing the Emperor will present you with a small wooden sword. The sword is your freedom.
MAXIMUS: He give it personally?
PROXIMO: He did to me. Our great father Marcus Aurelius looked into my eyes and touched me on the shoulder.
MAXIMUS: You knew Marcus?
PROXIMO: I didn't know him. He touched me on the shoulder. Just once. But that was enough. A beat.
PROXIMO: All right, Gladiator. We shall go to Rome together and have bloody adventures. The Great Whore will suckle us until we are fat and happy and can't suck another drop. That is Rome.
COMMODUS: All my desires are splitting my head to pieces there's so much I want to do but all my efforts to show my children they are loved go unappreciated by those dragons in the Senate
LUCILLA: ( mixing tonic ) Quiet, brother. Unseen by him, she adds a little special powder to the drink from a vial secreted in her robe.
LUCILLA: Leave the Senate to me. Don't trouble yourself.
COMMODUS: All I want is to be a good father to my people. Why don't they understand that? She goes to him.
LUCILLA: Shhh. The tonic will help. She takes a sip and then hands it to him.
LUCILLA: Yes, just drink this down. She sits on the edge of the bed. He drinks as:
COMMODUS: I must take a firmer hand with them. They must know their father can be firm. As our father was firm with Our father lost his way. His mistake was believing the old songs of the "Republic." We know better. So let the Senate talk. They have no real power.
LUCILLA: Our father lost his way. His mistake was believing the old songs of the "Republic." We know better. So let the Senate talk. They have no real power.
COMMODUS: Yes. yes. you always know the way. You were always so wise in these matters. You know if I didn't have my duty to Rome I think I should be an artist. I should go away and paint pictures of the sea and leave all the politics to you. A beat. He is sleepy, he lies back on his bed.
COMMODUS: Will you stay with me?
LUCILLA: ( smiles gently ) Still afraid of the dark, brother?
COMMODUS: Still. Always. A beat.
COMMODUS: My dreams would terrify the world. A beat.
LUCILLA: I'll stay with you until you are And after. just sit with me. Keep me safe. He is asleep. She watches him for a moment and then rises. She goes.
COMMODUS: ( falling asleep ) And after. just sit with me. Keep me safe. He is asleep. She watches him for a moment and then rises. She goes.
LUCILLA: He's asleep. Be quick.
GRACCHUS: We've taking a sounding, the Senate is with us.
LUCILLA: But we are only words. We are air. We need steel.
GRACCHUS: But we are only words. We are air. We need steel.
MARCELLUS: The City Guard is faithful to the Republic. But we don't stand a chance against the Praetorians.
LUCILLA: Can they be bought?
MARCELLUS: They are zealots totally committed to your brother.
GRACCHUS: Well, can they at least be rented for a day?
MARCELLUS: I doubt it. He pays them exorbitant salaries and lets them loot and extort as they see fit. The city belongs to them.
LUCILLA: And they've started arresting scholars now. Anyone who dares speak out even satirists and And mathematicians and Christians. All to fill the arena.
MARCELLUS: And mathematicians and Christians. All to fill the arena.
GAIUS: And what pays for it? These games are costing a fortune and yet we have no new taxes.
LUCILLA: The future. The future pays for A beat. She looks at them.
LUCILLA: He's started selling the grain That can't be true.
GAIUS: That can't be true.
MARCELLUS: That can't be true.
LUCILLA: He's selling Rome's reserves of grain. The people will be starving in two years. I hope they are enjoying the spectacles because soon enough they will be dead because of Rome must know this.
MARCELLUS: Rome must know this.
LUCILLA: And who will tell them?! You, Marcellus? You, Senator Gaius? Will you make a speech on the Senate floor denouncing my brother? And then see your family in the Colosseum? What town-crier would A long beat.
LUCILLA: He must die. A beat as her words sink in.
GAIUS: The Praetorians would only seize control themselves.
LUCILLA: No cut off the head and the snake cannot strike.
GRACCHUS: Lucilla, Gaius is right. Until the City Guard can neutralize the Praetorians we can accomplish And I haven't enough men.
MARCELLUS: And I haven't enough men.
LUCILLA: What about the army?
GAIUS: No Roman army has entered the capital in a hundred years.
LUCILLA: So we do nothing?! A door opens, a voice.
LUCIUS' VOICE: An eight-year-old boy stands in a doorway, sleepy. He is LUCIUS, Lucilla's son.
LUCIUS: I heard voices.
LUCILLA: ( going to him ) It's all right, darling, you Lucius suddenly notices Senator Gracchus:
LUCIUS: ( running to Gracchus ) Senator! What did you bring me?! He leaps onto Gracchus Gracchus laughs and pulls something from his robe.
GRACCHUS: For you prince Lucius. a sea Gracchus gives Lucius a beautifully painted toy of a sea Off the coast of Achaea they grow twenty times this size, with snapping teeth to devour any nasty Praetorians they come across. now, where is Achaea?
GRACCHUS: Off the coast of Achaea they grow twenty times this size, with snapping teeth to devour any nasty Praetorians they come across. now, where is Achaea?
LUCIUS: Below Macedonia!
GRACCHUS: Show me on the map. Lucius runs to a map and stabs his finger at Achaea. We sense this is an old game between them.
LUCILLA: Lucius, you go in now, I'll be in Thank you, Senator Mountain!
LUCIUS: ( to Gracchus ) Thank you, Senator Mountain!
GRACCHUS: You're welcome, Prince Anthill! Lucius goes. Lucilla shuts the door after him. A moment. She turns to the others, a deep anguish in her eyes.
LUCILLA: What are you going to do? Gracchus goes to her, holds her.
GRACCHUS: Peace child. One dark night the Gods will light our path. They will give us the voice we need. Have faith in that. Have faith.
VIBIUS: Not what you expected?
MAXIMUS: Rome is nothing but a slaughter house. And we are the meat.
VIBIUS: Rome is nothing but a slaughter house. And we are the meat.
VIBIUS: Tradition. He watches over us. Juba steps up and kisses the toe.
VIBIUS: ( to Maximus ) Oh go on, it won't kill you. Maximus kisses the toe as well.
PROXIMO: ( calling to them ) Stop that! You'll get some monstrous disease and then you'll be worth nothing to me! Guards come and lead them to their cells, which line one side of the courtyard.
JUBA: Do you think it will be much different? Here in Rome?
MAXIMUS: Bigger arena. Same killing. A beat.
JUBA: Are you scared for tomorrow?
MAXIMUS: A beat.
JUBA: Me too. A beat.
JUBA: I never though it would be so easy to kill. A beat.
JUBA: So you're finally home.
MAXIMUS: This isn't my home.
JUBA: For all Romans. this is home. A beat.
JUBA: ( quietly ) Among my people we honor the soil of our home. Our ancestors are in that soil. All their dreams live there. I will never see my home again. The soil is dead and no one honors them, so the dreams die. A beat.
MAXIMUS: Perhaps one day you'll return. Juba looks at him.
JUBA: How can I go back? I am not what I was. When a man kills for no reason, he has lost himself. A long beat. Juba leans his head back and quietly begins to sing. A haunting lament in his native tongue.
CASSIUS: . and the Emperor will have no more animal battles today Upset roars from some of the trainers.
TRAINER #1: You promised me a bear match, I have ten damned gorillas! You said gorillas yesterday!
TRAINER #2: I have ten damned gorillas! You said gorillas yesterday!
CASSIUS: Talk to the man in the imperial box. Who has the next slot.? Lentulus, Gideon, Trebonius and Nice to have you back, you piratical bastard now listen, the Emperor wants the Carthage The four trainers explode in a flurry of resistance
PROXIMO: No have pity, Cassius !
TRAINER #3: My men are too good for !
CASSIUS: You give us the Carthage match or lose your spot on the rotation but don't worry gold is flowing from the Emperor's fingers.
TRAINER #3: It'll cost you
PROXIMO: I won't do it for less than 100,000 sesterces !
TRAINER #4: 120,000! All I have is my best And I want to see this famous Spaniard of yours his reputation soars from the provinces. The people are eager for him
CASSIUS: ( to Proximo ) And I want to see this famous Spaniard of yours his reputation soars from the provinces. The people are eager for him
PROXIMO: I won't throw my Spaniard into a spectacle! Damn you and damn the You will and the price will be 90,000 sesterces each which you all know is exorbitant
CASSIUS: You will and the price will be 90,000 sesterces each which you all know is exorbitant
TOMORROW!: TRAINER #4 My Thracians are worth !
TRAINER #4: My Thracians are worth !
CASSIUS: Give me your best, brothers. They die before Caesar. He strides back to the arena. The touts instantly begin making new marks on the boards to represent the mysterious "Carthage Spectacle" as some of the trainers hurry out. Proximo walks with Trainer #4:
PROXIMO: I give you 30,000 my Spaniard will kill at least one of your Thracians.
TRAINER #4: 30,000?! On a Spaniard?! That provincial sun has curdled your Then make the wager, you smug They disappear down a dark corridor, negotiating all the INT. COLOSSEUM - HOLDING CELLS - DAY Maximus, Juba, Vibius and another of Proximo's gladiators are being armed. They all wear mask-like helmets. Proximo hurries to them.
PROXIMO: Then make the wager, you smug They disappear down a dark corridor, negotiating all the INT. COLOSSEUM - HOLDING CELLS - DAY Maximus, Juba, Vibius and another of Proximo's gladiators are being armed. They all wear mask-like helmets. Proximo hurries to them.
PROXIMO: All right there are three other teams, four men each You know what a Thracian looks like?
MAXIMUS: Yes, but
PROXIMO: Ignore the others go for the Thracians. The sun is to the east over the gate keep your back to the gate and you won't have the What ? Trumpets begin sounding from the arena.
MAXIMUS: What ? Trumpets begin sounding from the arena.
PROXIMO: Hurry ! The guards quickly bustle the four toward a gate leading to a dark tunnel to the arena.
PROXIMO: Die well and we'll sing songs about you for a generation. Short swords are shoved into their hands and the gate rises. They are pushed into the dark tunnel leading to the arena. The gate closes behind them. The four gladiators stand for a moment and then slowly walk down the tunnel to.
CASSIUS: This day we reach back to hallowed antiquity to bring you. THE FALL
CASSIUS: But on that illustrious day the Gods sent against them Rome's greatest warriors.! The very life-image of nobility and glorious valor. who would on this day, and on these same arid Numidian deserts, decide THE FATE OF THE EMPIRE. Your Emperor is pleased to give you. THE
COMMODUS: Slave! Who are you? The Colosseum is suddenly silent. The Emperor is speaking to a gladiator. Maximus keeps walking.
COMMODUS: SLAVE! WHO ARE YOU? Maximus keeps walking, his fists clenched now. Commodus suddenly grabs a spear from a nearby Praetorian and hurls it with perfect aim the crowd gasps the spear sails past Maximus actually nicking his shoulder it slices into the sand ahead of Maximus. Maximus stops.
COMMODUS: SLAVE! WHO ARE YOU?! Maximus can hold it no longer. He spins to Commodus ripping off his helmet mask and THUNDERING:
MAXIMUS: I AM MAXIMUS MERIDAS, GENERAL OF THE FELIX REGIMENT OF THE ROMAN ARMY AND SERVANT TO THE EMPEROR MARCUS Commodus eyes shoot wide Lucilla bolts up Gracchus leans forward Proximo is stunned the crowd is I AM FATHER TO A MURDERED SON AND HUSBAND TO A MURDERED WIFE AND LANDLORD TO A MURDERED WORLD AND I WILL HAVE VENGEANCE! The Praetorian Archers tense their bows ready to kill the defiant slave But something extraordinary stops them. Almost as one being the crowd roars they leaps to their feet and thrust their thumbs up! They cheer and stomp their approval of Maximus. Commodus looks around at the people of Rome, amazed. He finally plasters on a benevolent smile and thrusts his thumb up! The Praetorians lower their bows. And the crowd cheers. Never in the long, long history of the Colosseum have they ever seen such a thing. Maximus leads his gladiators out of the arena.
AURELIUS!: Commodus eyes shoot wide Lucilla bolts up Gracchus leans forward Proximo is stunned the crowd is The Praetorian Archers tense their bows ready to kill the defiant slave But something extraordinary stops them. Almost as one being the crowd roars they leaps to their feet and thrust their thumbs up! They cheer and stomp their approval of Maximus. Commodus looks around at the people of Rome, amazed. He finally plasters on a benevolent smile and thrusts his thumb up! The Praetorians lower their bows. And the crowd cheers. Never in the long, long history of the Colosseum have they ever seen such a thing. Maximus leads his gladiators out of the arena.
MAXIMUS: I AM FATHER TO A MURDERED SON AND HUSBAND TO A MURDERED WIFE AND LANDLORD TO A MURDERED WORLD AND I WILL HAVE VENGEANCE! The Praetorian Archers tense their bows ready to kill the defiant slave But something extraordinary stops them. Almost as one being the crowd roars they leaps to their feet and thrust their thumbs up! They cheer and stomp their approval of Maximus. Commodus looks around at the people of Rome, amazed. He finally plasters on a benevolent smile and thrusts his thumb up! The Praetorians lower their bows. And the crowd cheers. Never in the long, long history of the Colosseum have they ever seen such a thing. Maximus leads his gladiators out of the arena.
COMMODUS: Why is he still alive?
LUCILLA: I don't know.
COMMODUS: He shouldn't be alive. That vexes me. I am terribly vexed. Lucilla watches her brother cautiously, expecting the explosion. He carefully moves some model pieces in the There, that's better. Do you like the platform here?
COMMODUS: There, that's better. Do you like the platform here?
LUCILLA: I do too. Simple, elegant. Lucilla is growing more and more unnerved at Commodus' unusual serenity.
COMMODUS: I do too. Simple, elegant. Lucilla is growing more and more unnerved at Commodus' unusual serenity.
COMMODUS: Father would have wanted something more ornate but he's dead now. A beat. Commodus laughs. A beat.
COMMODUS: Maximus Meridas haunts me. I see Father turning away from me and gazing at him. How many times did I suffer that indignity, I wonder?
LUCILLA: What are you going to do?
COMMODUS: I'm going to kill him.
LUCILLA: ( glances at her ) Oh, you're too clever, Sister. Don't tell me part of you won't weep for him.
COMMODUS: ( glances at her ) Oh, you're too clever, Sister. Don't tell me part of you won't weep for him.
LUCILLA: When he defies my brother the Emperor, he defies me. But you shouldn't send assassins.
COMMODUS: The people embraced him today. They will be expecting his next match. . let him die in the arena like the slave he is. Let the people see what comes of defying Caesar. A beat as he looks at her.
LUCILLA: The people embraced him today. They will be expecting his next match. . let him die in the arena like the slave he is. Let the people see what comes of defying Caesar. A beat as he looks at her.
COMMODUS: He wounded you deeply, didn't he? Long ago. She does not answer.
COMMODUS: Nonetheless, your political acumen is, as always, unerring. He picks up a model tiger and puts it in the arena. He looks at the model tiger and smiles.
JUBA: ( also standing ) I will fight with you.
MAXIMUS: This isn't your battle.
JUBA: Better to die for a friend than to die for gold. The door swings open and they are surprised to see Proximo sweeping in with a cloaked woman. The woman gives Proximo a bag of money.
PROXIMO: Enjoy yourself, Madame. General, perform well and there will be riches for you. He beckons to Juba, they go, shutting the door behind them. The woman pulls off her cloak, it is Lucilla. Maximus glares at her, his muscles tensing.
LUCILLA: Rich matrons pay well to be pleasured by the bravest champions. Maximus backs up, fighting the urge to strangle her on the spot. He finally bumps into a wall of the cell.
MAXIMUS: I knew your brother would send assassins. I didn't think he would send his best.
LUCILLA: Maximus, listen to me
MAXIMUS: My family were crucified and burnt while they were still alive.
LUCILLA: I knew nothing of that.
MAXIMUS: ( low ) Don't lie to me.
LUCILLA: I wept for them.
MAXIMUS: A long, tense moment. She does not look at him.
LUCILLA: Do you know what it is to be the daughter of the Emperor? I learned on the night my father had my husband killed. I loved my husband very much. Very. simply. He was a man who believed in the Republic. He was a man who thought Marcus should be tending to Rome and not conquering the world. One night my father had him strangled for conspiring with the Senate. My father never spoke of it. I never spoke of it. That is what it is to be the daughter of Rome. She finally looks up at Maximus.
LUCILLA: My son will live. He will survive this cursed bloodline. Rome will die and the jackals will pick her clean but my son will survive. Empires come and go. Cities crumble to dust. Only family matters. A beat. Despite himself, Maximus is moved.
MAXIMUS: My son was innocent.
LUCILLA: So is mine. A beat.
MAXIMUS: I want your brother dead.
LUCILLA: So do I. A beat. Maximus is surprised at her direct answer.
LUCILLA: My son will never be safe while he A beat.
MAXIMUS: How do you plan it?
LUCILLA: The Senate is with us, and the City Guard. We have growing power in the streets. But we need a leader. Someone the people can
MAXIMUS: So the crown passes to your son.
LUCILLA: No. So that my son will be safe. So that we may leave this charnel house forever and never look back. Look into my eyes, Maximus, and believe what I say to you. She rivets him intensely with her eyes.
LUCILLA: By all the Gods, and in the name of my father who loved you, and in the name of the husband I loved. I swear to stand by your side in this now and always. A beat.
MAXIMUS: What is your son's name?
LUCILLA: Lucius Verus. Like his father.
MAXIMUS: I weep for him. A long beat. Maximus' cold eyes give away nothing. Lucilla turns and starts to go. She stops, not looking Commodus plans to kill you in your next match in the arena. He's planning something. I will pray for you. As I have always done. She then pulls something from her robes and sets it down, a little bundle wrapped in cloth. She sweeps out. The sound of the door being bolted shut on the other side. Maximus stands for a moment and then goes to what she has left. He opens the cloth. Inside are his six "ancestor" He picks up one of the figures. He looks at it deeply, gently feeling along the contours with a finger.
LUCILLA: Commodus plans to kill you in your next match in the arena. He's planning something. I will pray for you. As I have always done. She then pulls something from her robes and sets it down, a little bundle wrapped in cloth. She sweeps out. The sound of the door being bolted shut on the other side. Maximus stands for a moment and then goes to what she has left. He opens the cloth. Inside are his six "ancestor" He picks up one of the figures. He looks at it deeply, gently feeling along the contours with a finger.
CASSIUS: . in his majestic charity the Emperor has deigned to this day favor the people of Rome with an historical final match. Returning to the Colosseum today. after five years in retirement. Caesar is pleased to bring you. THE ONLY
PROXIMO: Gods! That old Homicide! The Emperor must truly hate you.
MAXIMUS: What can you tell me?
PROXIMO: He cheats.
CASSIUS: ( orating ) And from the rocky promontories and martial bloodlines of Spain. representing the training lyceum of Proximo Antoninus. I give you.
LUCIUS' VOICE: Is it true you're a General.? Maximus looks up, Lucius is standing at his cell. Maximus has no idea who the boy is just another young fan but Maximus is immediately struck by Lucius' resemblance to his own son.
MAXIMUS: I was a General.
LUCIUS: I saw you fight. The Carthage battle too. I've never seen so much It doesn't take courage to kill.
MAXIMUS: It doesn't take courage to kill.
LUCIUS: My father was killed. A beat.
MAXIMUS: I'm sorry.
LUCIUS: He still comes to me in my dreams. Do you have a father?
MAXIMUS: I had a father. He wasn't really my father but I cared for him very much.
LUCIUS: I hope he comes to you in your dreams. My father and I ride horses in mine. These simple words strike something deep in Maximus. Lucilla appears from the shadows and puts her hands on Lucius' shoulders.
LUCILLA: Lucius, run along now. I need to talk to the General. Lucius runs off to his Male ATTENDANT, who leads him away. A long beat as Maximus and Lucilla look at each other. Where is my army? A drum beat is heard. It increases throughout the following scenes, building momentum like a Roman gallery accelerating to ramming speed. The conspiracy scenes are enclosed in a montage of scenes in and around the arena showing Maximus' growing popularity with the People of Rome.
MAXIMUS: Where is my army? A drum beat is heard. It increases throughout the following scenes, building momentum like a Roman gallery accelerating to ramming speed. The conspiracy scenes are enclosed in a montage of scenes in and around the arena showing Maximus' growing popularity with the People of Rome.
LUCILLA: . Maximus will summon his army from Ostia and he will strike from the inside as his army strikes from the outside. But he insists that the Senate be present.
GAIUS: We've been ordered to attend.
LUCILLA: How many are with us?
GRACCHUS: About half. But once the tyrant is dead. All. A beat.
GRACCHUS: I want to meet him.
LUCILLA: I'll arrange it.
GAIUS: And what of the Emperor? A beat.
LUCILLA: He has withdrawn. He's not eating. He doesn't go out. He won't even see me. I don't know what tempests rage within him but.
GRACCHUS: We should fear for the blackest A beat.
LUCILLA: A beat.
GAIUS: One question. who is to be the actual Regicide? A beat. She glances at him. The drums continue.
VIBIUS: You didn't kill him.
MAXIMUS: I will not kill another warrior. There is no honor to it. Maximus goes. Vibius thinks about it, listening to the adulation of the crowd. The drums continue.
KIDS: Maximus the Merciful! Maximus the The drums continue.
MAXIMUS: Tell him we will enter Rome on the first day of Commodus' festival.
LUCILLA: And they will march on Rome for you?
MAXIMUS: Yes. But this letter must go to the lieutenant named Titus, no one else.
LUCILLA: Captain Marcellus will take it. And his City Guard will by with you when you get to Rome. Is that enough to face the Praetorian Guard?
MAXIMUS: ( looks to her ) The Felix Regiment will never be A beat.
GRACCHUS: I only have one question for you, General. Why? A beat.
GRACCHUS: You will lead an army of your brothers on Rome. Many will die. I want Commodus dead.
MAXIMUS: I want Commodus dead.
GRACCHUS: That's not the reason. Tell me the A beat.
MAXIMUS: Because one night an old man whispered to me about a dream. I will die for that dream. A long beat.
GRACCHUS: I knew the old man well. And I loved him very much. In our youth we would spend hours building that dream together. After he went to the wars and lost his way. I was very cruel. I tormented him to remember that dream we spoke of.
MAXIMUS: He did.
GRACCHUS: You can have no idea how much that means to me. A beat.
GRACCHUS: Any man who will die for a whispered dream deserves my respect. I honor you, General. The drums continue.
MERCIFUL.": Maximus, Vibius, Juba and a few other gladiators toss down their weapons and walk off, leaving their opponents alive. The crowd roars. They have completely embraced Maximus and his fellow gladiators. Gracchus, in the stands, laughs. The drums finally conclude.
CENTURION: Madame, the Emperor would like to see you. Lucilla quickly glances to her Handmaiden in the mirror and then braces herself, stands, and quickly leaves with the Centurion.
LUCILLA: He turns. She stops. He looks as if he has not slept for days. If a word could now sum up his clouded face it is this: tormented. She goes to him, embraces him. He holds her tightly.
COMMODUS: I am sorry to have kept you away. I needed this time to think.
LUCILLA: Of course. He moves away from her, slowly moving around the room.
COMMODUS: I limited my world to these four walls so as to let my mind free. again and again my mind settles on but one question. What kind of world are we making when the people of Rome prefer a slave in the arena to their father? A beat. Commodus' strange philosophical bent is unnerving It is my responsibility to make the world as it should be. How is it I have made this world?
COMMODUS: It is my responsibility to make the world as it should be. How is it I have made this world?
LUCILLA: Brother, do not be influenced by the mob. They are a great, faceless They are not "the mob," Lucilla, they are the people. They are my children and all I want to do is love them. A beat. He stands before a bust of Marcus Aurelius. He touches it.
COMMODUS: They are not "the mob," Lucilla, they are the people. They are my children and all I want to do is love them. A beat. He stands before a bust of Marcus Aurelius. He touches it.
COMMODUS: Our father loved Maximus. and I love him still. yet he defies me, he tasks me in front of my children. And they love him for it. Just as Marcus loved him for it. Tell me why, Lucilla.
LUCILLA: They see themselves in him. They throw in their own sad dreams alongside his. They think he fights for them.
COMMODUS: And what do I do but fight for them?! I give them games to please them. I strangle dissent to give them peace. I empower the Praetorians to give them order. What more can I do?! A beat.
COMMODUS: Say I should fight him, in the arena. Let my children see who the Gods truly favor.
LUCILLA: And what if he should win? A beat. Commodus continues to slowly move around the room.
COMMODUS: A God is more powerful than a man. This odd statement hangs in the air for a moment. Then:
LUCILLA: Caesar, you let this unduly worry you. At best he is a passing fancy he is a name, an image on a banner, ephemeral he will be forgotten as the next fancy But I need to know why do they love him?
COMMODUS: But I need to know why do they love him?
LUCILLA: He stops. Looks at her.
LUCILLA: He will not kill in the arena. He is merciful. As they all wish they were in their own hearts. Something in her words has struck a chord in him.
COMMODUS: And for that moment in the arena they are merciful too. For a moment. they are Gods. Offering He looks at her.
COMMODUS: But who can be more merciful than the Emperor of Rome?
COMMODUS: Brother. we've taken a sad path since we were children at Capri, have we not? Maximus doesn't answer.
COMMODUS: For my own part. I am sorry it came to this. And to you alone of all men, I acknowledge my errors. And my regret. I shall live with my sin for all my days.
MAXIMUS: As will I, Commodus. As will I. Commodus unwraps the cloth bundle. Inside is a small wooden sword. He holds it up so the crowd can see. A collective gasp. The wooden sword, prized by all gladiators above all else. Freedom.
COMMODUS: As the first act of my contrition I offer you the wooden sword of He holds out the wooden sword. A beat.
COMMODUS: Take it, brother. Stand at my side as a free man worthy of your I only have ancestors because of you, brother. You killed everything that ever lived alongside me. A beat.
MAXIMUS: I only have ancestors because of you, brother. You killed everything that ever lived alongside me. A beat.
COMMODUS: Take it, Maximus. Let us heal that fatal wound together.
MAXIMUS: This is the new home you cursed me to. And I am safer here from your treachery than I could ever be Will you always mistrust me?
COMMODUS: Will you always mistrust me?
MAXIMUS: Why don't you ask your father that? Commodus visibly flinches at that, but still holds the wooden sword out. The crowd is breathless.
MAXIMUS: I have more power as a slave in the arena than I could ever have as a free man. As the Colosseum goes, the people go. As the people go, the Empire goes.
COMMODUS: ( tense ) You think this is power? I could show you power, slave
MAXIMUS: No, Caesar. I will show you. With that, Maximus does the unimaginable. He simply turns his back on the Emperor and walks away. And the crowd goes mad. They cheer the defiant gladiator, their champion. And, equally, they deride the Emperor. They mock him by holding out food and trash like Commodus is holding out the wooden sword. They laugh and jeer. Commodus glances around at his children, lost. Then he turns to the Imperial Box. He sees Lucilla slipping out the back of the box. He watches her go. And the crowd continues to jeer.
MAXIMUS: The Felix Regiment will come from here. We'll face the body of the Praetorians outside here. Once inside, my archers will take up position to counter opposition inside the Colosseum. I'll enter and join you we'll attack here Maximus draws a line to the Imperial Box.
MAXIMUS: a covert assault from within.
VIBIUS: We'll be killed.
MAXIMUS: A beat.
MAXIMUS: But if we aren't. think of the glory. Do you remember glory, And if we die that day we die free men worthy of our ancestors.
JUBA: And if we die that day we die free men worthy of our ancestors.
VIBIUS: You didn't know my ancestors. A rotten bunch. Maximus points to the huge statue of Mars.
MAXIMUS: Then be worthy of him. The old Titan who would rather die bravely in a just battle than slink off to grow old and fat.
JUBA: And impotent. A beat. Vibius thinks about it.
VIBIUS: If I die, I want a hundred whores at my funeral.
COMMODUS: Where is my sister?
HANDMAIDEN: She's out, sir.
COMMODUS: I. don't know, Caesar. Commodus looks at her for a moment. And then he slowly walks right to her. His face an inch away from hers.
HANDMAIDEN: I. don't know, Caesar. Commodus looks at her for a moment. And then he slowly walks right to her. His face an inch away from hers.
COMMODUS: Where is my sister?
MAXIMUS: Was it Centurion.? General.?
PROXIMO: A beat.
PROXIMO: How did you know?
MAXIMUS: A soldier knows a soldier. A beat.
PROXIMO: All that was a long time ago. Too much wine and too many women. And too much money.
MAXIMUS: This is who I am. You see? There was a time I would stand against ten men and never give an inch, spitting into the jaws of Hades all the while. There was a time my heart swelled to strap on the armor of Rome. But now. Something flashes across Proximo's eyes, something like Now I am just an entertainer. A pause.
PROXIMO: This is who I am. You see? There was a time I would stand against ten men and never give an inch, spitting into the jaws of Hades all the while. There was a time my heart swelled to strap on the armor of Rome. But now. Something flashes across Proximo's eyes, something like Now I am just an entertainer. A pause.
PROXIMO: Now I am just an entertainer. A pause.
MAXIMUS: You said something to me once. You said in this life, we all die. All we can choose is how we die. And how we are remembered. Do you recall those words?
PROXIMO: Then be remembered proudly. This is your time, Proximo. Stand at my side and be what you were. What you truly are. One last time. A beat. Proximo suddenly begins to weep rather histrionically Maximus is a bit taken aback Proximo dramatically flicks tears from his eyes and then can't keep the show up he bursts into laughter. Maximus stares at him.
MAXIMUS: Then be remembered proudly. This is your time, Proximo. Stand at my side and be what you were. What you truly are. One last time. A beat. Proximo suddenly begins to weep rather histrionically Maximus is a bit taken aback Proximo dramatically flicks tears from his eyes and then can't keep the show up he bursts into laughter. Maximus stares at him.
PROXIMO: ( laughing ) You might have spared yourself the speech, General. The lady Lucilla bought all my gladiators two hours You pox-ridden bastard !
MAXIMUS: You pox-ridden bastard !
PROXIMO: I am the richest trainer in the Empire! And I will let my gladiators do anything you like! Conspire away, General! Maximus can only laugh as well.
PROXIMO: But I tell you if you survive this madness I want you to go into business with me. I'll give you a quarter of my holdings.
MAXIMUS: ( standing ) A quarter?!
PROXIMO: A third. And not a hair more. And you'll have to start in the provinces! Cleaning up the lion You know, if you were half so awful as you pretend, you'd be a terrifying man. Maximus shakes his head, smiling, and goes. Proximo sits for a moment. Then he rises and goes to a heavy chest. He looks at the chest for a moment and then opens it. Inside is his old Lorica Segmentata. He gazes at his armor, considering what he once was. And what he now is.
MAXIMUS: You know, if you were half so awful as you pretend, you'd be a terrifying man. Maximus shakes his head, smiling, and goes. Proximo sits for a moment. Then he rises and goes to a heavy chest. He looks at the chest for a moment and then opens it. Inside is his old Lorica Segmentata. He gazes at his armor, considering what he once was. And what he now is.
MAXIMUS: Don't even say it. I know it's dangerous but I had to see you. Captain Marcellus has gone to the army with your message as you He says the City Guard will be ready at the south road at noon. They can only wait for an hour so
LUCILLA: Don't even say it. I know it's dangerous but I had to see you. Captain Marcellus has gone to the army with your message as you He says the City Guard will be ready at the south road at noon. They can only wait for an hour so
MAXIMUS: He says the City Guard will be ready at the south road at noon. They can only wait for an hour so
LUCILLA: He says the City Guard will be ready at the south road at noon. They can only wait for an hour so
MAXIMUS: You've told me this already.
LUCILLA: Did I? All right then. So everything is prepared. The Senate will be in attendance and you have your gladiators the usual cohort of Praetorians will be inside the Lucilla. why are you here? A pause.
MAXIMUS: Lucilla. why are you here? A pause.
LUCILLA: Tell me honestly. please. do you think it will work? A beat.
MAXIMUS: Do you think we'll all die?
LUCILLA: Do you think we'll all die?
MAXIMUS: She leans against a wall. A pause.
LUCILLA: Will you swear something to me?
MAXIMUS: Will you swear it on the memory of your son? A long beat.
LUCILLA: Will you swear it on the memory of your son? A long beat.
MAXIMUS: By all that you have ever loved. swear that if you survive you will take my son out of Rome. Swear that you will go far away and never He steps to her.
LUCILLA: By all that you have ever loved. swear that if you survive you will take my son out of Rome. Swear that you will go far away and never He steps to her.
MAXIMUS: ( deeply ) I will. A beat.
MAXIMUS: And if I should not survive. swear to me that you will honor my family in your prayers always.
LUCILLA: I will. A long, difficult beat. She fights back tears.
LUCILLA: Had I not been the daughter of He puts a gentle finger to her lips.
MAXIMUS: Shhh. my heart breaks enough. He holds her closely, tenderly.
COMMODUS: Sister. join us. I've been reading to dear Lucius.
LUCIUS: I've been reading too.
COMMODUS: Yes, he's a very smart little boy. He'll make a grand Emperor one day. Lucilla has not moved.
COMMODUS: Join us, sister. Lucilla goes to them, sits.
COMMODUS: We've been reading about the great Julius and his adventures in Egypt.
LUCIUS: She killed herself with a snake!
COMMODUS: ( to Lucius ) And just wait until you hear what happened to some of our other ancestors! If you're very good, tomorrow night I'll tell you the story of Emperor Claudius. He was betrayed! By those closest to ( he glances up to Lucilla ) . by his own blood. they whispered in dark corners and went out late at night and conspired and Lucilla looks as if she is going to be ill. Lucius is busy scanning the scroll. Commodus gently strokes his hair, his cold eyes never leaving Lucilla's.
COMMODUS: But the Emperor Claudius knew that they were up to something dire. He knew they were busy little bees. And one night he sat down with one of them and he looked at her and he said: "Tell me what you have been doing, busy little bee, or I shall strike down those dearest to you. You shall watch as I bathe in their blood." And the bee knew he spoke the truth, for the Emperor always speaks the truth. And what do you think happened then, Lucius?
LUCIUS: ( still pouring over the scrolls ) I don't know, Uncle.
COMMODUS: ( glaring at Lucilla ) The bee told him everything. Lucilla's face is tortured.
PROXIMO: Release them! Release them all!
ARM THEM!: The guards sprint to the cells unlocking the gladiators as quickly as they can Not quick enough for many Praetorians are now pouring pitch through the gutter that runs along the bottom of the cells igniting it and incinerating all those trapped The compound is soon a raging inferno Proximo releases Maximus and Juba
PROXIMO: If you want to live follow me
MAXIMUS: If you want to live follow me
PROXIMO: If you want to live follow me
VIBIUS: ( calling to them ) Go, Spaniard! We'll show these Roman dogs how gladiators fight! Proximo hauls Maximus and Juba off as Vibius and the other gladiators arm themselves
PROXIMO: All the old gladiator schools have tunnels to the Colosseum most have long since collapsed
JUBA: How did they know?
MAXIMUS: We were betrayed.
JUBA: ( stops ) I'll stay here. In case they Maximus stops as well.
JUBA: Go! Bring us the army! Maximus nods.
PROXIMO: He leads Maximus down the disintegrating catacomb of EXT. PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - NIGHT Vibius hoped to die fighting he never got the chance. It is not a battle, it is a slaughter. The Praetorians ruthlessly shoot anyone even approaching the gates all the walls are covered most of the gladiators die in the hellish inferno the relentless rain of flaming arrows continues Vibius coughs in the thick smoke and rages for someone to fight Praetorian snipers cut him down he dies reaching for the statue of Mars.
PROXIMO: ( points ) Down that corridor is the butchery the blood sloughs lead to the Tiber. Gods watch over you.
MAXIMUS: You're not coming?
PROXIMO: They are killing my men! He races back into the tunnel. Maximus moves quickly down the corridor. He can finally INT. COLOSSEUM - BUTCHERY - NIGHT Grisly carcasses of every description hang from hooks. Two bored butchers hack them up. The good bits are tossed into a wagon to fed to the Colosseum animals. The waste and offal are shoveled into a large sewer opening. A butcher occasionally lifts a sluice-gate and a gush of water flows into the sewer from above, washing down the blood and carcasses. Maximus crouches and creeps through the nightmare of hanging carcasses and flies. When the butchers are looking elsewhere, Maximus creeps to the sewer opening and climbs in he immediately slides down for a few yards in the slanting, slippery blood sluice out of sight Then he thuds to a stop. He can go no further because the remains of an animal carcass blocks his way. He tries to slither past the carcass Finally, one of the butchers above lifts the sluice-gate and a torrent of water flows down. Maximus is washed down the hideous sewer.
PROXIMO: Gods. they're killing them all. Proximo leads them up a cramped stairway to.
LUCIUS: What is that fire?
COMMODUS: Why that's a bonfire, Lucius. I arranged it just for you. He puts his hand on the boy's shoulder. Behind them, Lucilla sits slumped in a chair. Her face is a mask of anguish at what she has been forced to do. Two Praetorians enter with a bucket.
PRAETORIAN: Commodus goes to them. He talks quietly with them for a moment and glances at what they are carrying.
COMMODUS: Oh. that's for my sister. They bring the bucket to Lucilla and set it before her. Commodus ignores her and goes back to Lucius on the Lucilla glances inside the bucket. Captain Marcellus' head is floating in brine. Lucilla moans. All is lost.
TITUS: By all the Gods. He goes to Maximus and embraces him.
MAXIMUS: Old friend.
TITUS: You're returned from Hades! By all the Gods!
MAXIMUS: Where is he? Just then Quintus emerges from the largest tent. He stares at Maximus, unbelieving. A long beat as they look at each other. Quintus knows his destiny. With quiet dignity he begins whispering a prayer. Maximus moves to him, embracing him:
MAXIMUS: I forgive you. He stabs Quintus with a dagger as he embraces him. Quintus falls. A beat. Titus goes to the dead Quintus and pulls the seal of office from his uniform. He hands it to Maximus. An enormous roar of celebration from the Felix Regiment.
COMMODUS: ( serene ) Rome. This is the day that was foretold. This is the day when your father takes away all fear. ( he holds up his hands ) With these hands I shall destroy your enemies so that you may sleep always and forever in peace. From this day forth let it be known that I, Lucius Aelius Aurelius Commodus, have surmounted mortality. That I, Lucius Aelius Aurelius Commodus, assume my destined place. at the side of the Gods. The crowd is stunned. A few scattered laughs. Lucilla stares at him, disbelieving.
COMMODUS: And as a righteous God, I shall ever protect you. I shall cradle the world on my benevolent hands and clasp it to my heart. So I have spoken! And let the heavens tremble at my might!
COMMODUS: This day I reclaim Rome for her people. I shall give you the rebirth of your Empire! Reborn and cleansed of her enemies! He raises his arms. At his cue the Praetorian archers raise their bows, ready, aiming at the victims.
COMMODUS: I will make a new Rome! Founded as it was at the beginning! Archers
MAXIMUS: Throw down your weapons or we will kill you. A beat. The Praetorian Officer glances at the formidable force against him. He drops his sword. His men follow suit.
MAXIMUS: ( he turns to his men )
COMMODUS: As it was at the beginning so is it now. The great She-Wolf of Rome will again suckle us, again ravage our enemies AND BRING US A WORLD
REBORN!: At his cue, two elevator platforms rumble into view, rising from the bowels of the Colosseum to the arena sand. On each platform is a cage full of ferocious wolves, they snap and growl, straining to be released.
COMMODUS: So it was for Romulus and Remus, sons of Mars, so shall it be for us! The great She-Wolf will Suddenly the huge wooden doors of the arena burst open and Maximus leads the Felix Regiment cavalry thundering into the arena. The crowd is stunned Commodus is stunned Lucilla bolts up Commodus immediately spins to Lucilla, his eyes burning His Praetorian are momentarily confused At Gallus' command the Felix Regiment archers let fly multiple arrows and bolts cut through most of the Praetorians some confusing skirmishes as the remaining Praetorians fire back Maximus leaps from his horse and begins cutting the prisoners free Meanwhile, Commodus strides back down the platform toward Lucilla in the Imperial Box, murder in his eyes She suddenly hugs Lucius quickly and kisses him
LUCILLA: Remember your mother. She pulls the ceremonial dagger from his little uniform and pushes him to his attendant his attendant pulls him away as Lucilla spins to Commodus he grabs her into an embrace he turns the knife on her thrusting deeply as he kisses her A long kiss as he holds her tightly to him. Then he gently sits her down on her throne. Her eyes wide, dying. One of Commodus' Body Guards grabs him:
COMMODUS: GET THE BOY! He grabs Lucius from his attendant and drags him off They try to escape out the back of the Imperial Box but Felix Regiment troops are blocking their way racing up toward them
MAXIMUS: Proximo takes the sword.
MAXIMUS: ( re: Commodus and the others ) Where are they going?!
PROXIMO: This way! They race across the arena and into a tunnel.
COMMODUS: KILL THE BOY! Maximus whirls to Lucius Commodus attacks slashing Maximus' shoulders Maximus sees Proximo racing to try and save Lucius as he spins back to battle Commodus A Centurion raises his sword to kill Lucius Juba kills his final opponent, turns Proximo just manages to push Lucius out of the way the Centurion's sword slices into Juba flings his sword across the room the final Centurion falls Maximus sees Proximo collapse to a wall dying Proximo locks eyes with Maximus as he slides down the wall. The old pirate shrugs. And is dead. Juba races to Lucius and holds the boy, turning his face away from the slaughter Maximus, his furious passion redoubled at Proximo's death, attacks Commodus with every ounce of strength in him Commodus' eyes begin to flash with something we have never seen before, fear. Maximus strikes mercilessly forcing Commodus steadily back until they are fighting atop one of the elevator platforms to the arena above.
MAXIMUS: For my wife! Maximus strike hard Commodus barely blocks the blow
MAXIMUS: For my son! He strikes harder Commodus is losing
MAXIMUS: For my father! He strikes with everything he's got slashing Commodus Commodus sails back his sword falling Maximus stands over him. Glaring. Commodus is panting, defeated, glaring up at him. A beat.
MAXIMUS: We who are about to die salute you. Maximus raises his sword high Commodus raises an arm Maximus SMASHES the sword down and Commodus is dead. A moment as Maximus stands over Commodus. Then he looks at the series of counterweight ropes around the elevator He slices through one of the ropes and the platform begins to rise.
GRACCHUS: General, the purple is yours if you so desire. The Senate will support Maximus looks at him. And then at the people. The chant of "Caesar. Caesar. Caesar." is like a powerful beating heart. Maximus moves to the edge of the Imperial Box to address the people. The crowd grows silent. Maximus looks around at the blood of the arena.
MAXIMUS: Rome. you are better than this. Look inside yourselves. I challenge you to find your true voice. Help the Senate speak for you. Make them your champion. And dare to think what could be. A beat.
MAXIMUS: I give you back the dream. With that he slowly turns and walks down the steps to the arena sand. The crowd is absolutely silent. He goes to Titus:
MAXIMUS: When everything has calmed down, lead an orderly withdrawal. Take them home. Titus salutes. Maximus return the salute and then leaps onto his horse. As he canters toward the exit he turns for one final look at Lucilla. He sees that Lucius is now at the foot of the stairs, on the arena sand, gazing at him. Maximus stops his horse. He canters back to Lucius. The boy looks up at him. A moment between them. Lucius thrusts up his hand. Maximus grabs his hand and swings him onto the horse behind him. A look to Juba. Juba bows his head with respect. Maximus spins the horse around and begins cantering out of the Colosseum. Juba disappears into the crowd. Maximus and Lucius canter across the arena and through the huge doors.
MAXIMUS: It doesn't look it now. but soon we'll have it growing again. Next year there will be vines, and then there will be grapes. It will be We leave them, dreaming of the future.
THE END: Writers : David Franzoni John Logan
