THE GODFATHER: Part Two Screenplay by Mario Puzo Francis Ford Coppola
SECOND DRAFT: September 24, 1973
WOMAN: ( Sicilian ) They've killed young Paolo! They've killed the boy Paolo!
WIDOW: ( Sicilian ) Don Francesco. You murdered my husband, because he would not bend. And his oldest son Paolo, because he swore revenge. But Vitone is only nine, and dumb-witted. He never speaks.
DON FRANCESCO: ( Sicilian ) I'm not afraid of his words.
WIDOW: ( Sicilian ) He is weak.
DON FRANCESCO: ( Sicilian ) He will grow strong.
WIDOW: ( Sicilian ) The child cannot harm you.
DON FRANCESCO: ( Sicilian ) He will be a man, and then he will come for revenge. As she pleads, the Widow moves closer to the Don, until she has practically thrown herself to her knees before him.
WIDOW: ( Sicilian ) I beg you, Don Francesco, spare my only son. He is all I have. In the name of the Holy Spirit, I swear he will never be a danger to Suddenly, she reaches under her skirt, where she has hidden a kitchen knife.
WIDOW: ( continuing ) But I will kill you myself! ( she lunges at the Mafia chieftain ) Vitone, go! The boy runs as fast as he can out through the gates. Then there is a lupara blast. He turns, and sees his Mother flung a distance of five feet from the short range of the terrible blast of the shotgun. Then he sees the men turn their attention to him. One fires at him; but the boy is quick, and disappears into a grove of olive trees.
MOSCA: ( Sicilian ) Our Friend promises misery to anyone who harbors the boy Vito ( he turns and shouts in the other direction ) Our Friend promises misery to anyone who harbors the boy Vito INT. A HOUSE - NIGHT A family quietly eats their dinner. The father is the local policeman, as indicated by his uniform jacket and gun, hanging nearby.
STROLLO: ( Sicilian, O.S. ) Our Friend will be hard with any family who gives help to Vito One of the children looks up, about to speak. But the father sternly indicates that nothing must be said. They go on with their dinner.
MOSCA: ( Sicilian O.S. ) .misery to any family who harbors the boy, Vito.
FATHER: ( Sicilian ) Vito.We pray for you. He pulls the fabric over the boy's face.
MOSCA: ( Sicilian O.S. ) ( Sicilian O.S. ) Our Friend promises misery to any EXT. THE CHURCH PLAZA - NIGHT The men continue on their night-walk, up to the plaza of the ( Sicilian ) .who harbors the boy Vitone The figure of a single man on a mule passes them.
STROLLO: ( Sicilian O.S. ) Our Friend promises misery to any EXT. THE CHURCH PLAZA - NIGHT The men continue on their night-walk, up to the plaza of the ( Sicilian ) .who harbors the boy Vitone The figure of a single man on a mule passes them.
STROLLO: ( Sicilian ) .who harbors the boy Vitone The figure of a single man on a mule passes them.
MOSCA: ( Sicilian ) Let no one give help to the boy Vito Andolini. The man on the mule makes his way out of the village and disappears into the distance. We begin to hear, very quietly, the Waltz repeated once again.
OFFICIAL: ( English ) What is your name? The man waits, impatiently.
OFFICIAL: Your name? Vito doesn't answer. The Official pulls the tag pinned onto his coat and copies to down on his form, using a typewriter.
OFFICIAL: ( speaking as he types ) Vito.Corleone. Step up, over He hands the form to another official. CLOSE VIEW on the form. The name has been entered as Vito INT. MEDICAL EXAM - DAY Vito is stripped to the waist, as other immigrants wait. The DOCTOR is just finishing his examination. He shakes his head, and then writes on the medical form.
DOCTOR: Can you understand me? Vito stares blankly.
DOCTOR: You understand? Smallpox. Smallpox. He doesn't understand. The doctor turns to the Immigration Quarantine.six months.
DOCTOR: Quarantine.six months.
OFFICIAL: Salvatore Ormenta. The man moves into the room, and the group proceeds.
OFFICIAL: Vito Corleone. No one responds. The guard moves to the boy, reads his new name tag. And then, not unkindly:
GUARD: That's you. He opens the door, and Vito enters the room.
FULL VIEW: The little children move in procession down to the Altar, where the PRIEST raises the Host, and performs the Communion Mass in Latin.
PRIEST: Ecce Agnus Dei, ecce qui tollit peccata mundi.
PRIEST: Corpus Christi.
ANTHONY: EXT. LAKE TAHOE ESTATE - DAY The lawns of this great estate on the shore of Lake Tahoe are covered with guests of a wonderful party to honor the First Holy Communion of Anthony Corleone, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Michael Corleone. A full dance orchestra plays music of the times on a pavilion bandstand built especially for the occasion. Speedboats roar through the water, pulling youthful waterskiers; and the pool and private harbor are filled with laughing, swimming guests. It is Fall of 1958.
MED. VIEW: Anthony, in his Communion suit sits alone at the table, looking like a lonely young Prince.
PHOTOGRAPHER: All together now, c'mon, Anthony. CHEESE and
KAY: Thank you. She smiles as she leaves the photographer, and then lets out a weary sigh to Mama, as she touches the slightly protruding Do you think it'll show in the Two months never shows. Two months look like you had a big lunch.
KAY: Do you think it'll show in the Two months never shows. Two months look like you had a big lunch.
MAMA: Two months never shows. Two months look like you had a big lunch.
MRS. BARRETT: Hello, Mrs. Corleone. I'm Fran Barrett, our place is just down the lake. This is my husband, Marshall.
KAY: I'm so happy you could come.
MR. BARRETT: The place is transformed. We've been watching workmen come and go all summer.
MRS. BARRETT: Where is Mr. Corleone?
KAY: A business meeting ran late.but he promised he wouldn't be long. Kay puts her arm around little Anthony's shoulder.
KAY: This is our son Anthony Vito Corleone. Today he made his First Holy Communion.
DEANNA: I will not shut my mouth, and keep your Goddamn hands off of me! She is followed by a harried, FREDDIE CORLEONE, dressed with flash in the Hollywood style, and carrying her shoes in his Honey! Wait a minute; let's go for a drive.
FREDO: Honey! Wait a minute; let's go for a drive.
DEANNA: I just had a drive; besides, I want to see my brother-in-law Michael.
FREDO: ( trying to get her to put her shoes on ) Yeah, but I don't want him to see Deanna pauses reflectively a moment, allowing Fredo to get her shoes on.
DEANNA: What beats me, is how you guys could be brothers. You musta been your Mother's rotten egg. She kicks off the shoes, giggling, and runs toward a waiter.
DEANNA: ( lifting a glass of champagne ) Young man, young man.thank you, young man.
WAITER: ( impressed ) Excuse me, but aren't you.
DEANNA: Yes, you saw me in the movies, Good Humor man, and yes, I had more off than my shoes!
FREDO: Goddamn bitch.
DEANNA: Relax, Freddie honey. Come dance with me. She extends her hand to him.
FREDO: Listen, Michael's got a lot of nice people here. Friends of Kay's. He'll never forgive me if you ruin his party.
DEANNA: I hate to see you cringe in front of him. How come you're so scared of your own kid brother?
FREDO: He's the head of the family. Disgusted, she turns around, and heads toward the music.
DEANNA: Don't follow me!
CONNIE: Mama.Mama! Here I am! She throws her arms around her Mother, who returns the affection somewhat reproachfully.
MAMA: Constanzia. We expected you last week; we sent the car to pick you up at the airport last week.
CONNIE: I know, it was chaos; but anyway, here I am one week late. This is for my Mama. You remember Yes, thank you.
MAMA: ( not giving him a chance to greet her ) Yes, thank you.
CONNIE: How are the kids?
MAMA: Well, thank you, they asked for you all week.
CONNIE: I got surprises for everybody!
MAMA: ( glancing at the wrapping ) Bought at the airport.
CONNIE: ( gazing about ) This is swell. Where's Michael? I've got things to get straight with him and I can't wait on line.
MAMA: You go see your children first, and then you wait to see your brother like everybody else.
PENTANGELI: Hey, kid! You got any red wine?
WAITER: ( offering the tray ) Only champagne and cocktails.
PENTANGELI: Forget it. Finally, he sees someone he recognizes, Fredo, and shouts out in a husky voice:
PENTANGELI: Fredo! Sonuvabitch. You look great. Fredo squints in his direction; finally recognizes him.
FREDO: Who's that? Pentangeli? Frankie "Five-Angels".thought you were never coming West.
PENTANGELI: ( affectionately ) Gotta check up on my boys. Hey, what's with the food? Some kid in a white jacket brings me a ritz cracker with some chopped liver. 'Canapes,' he says. I say, 'Can a peas, my ass, that's a ritz cracker with chopped liver.' Go get me a salami sandwich and a glass of wine or I'll send you and your white jacket to the dry cleaners! They get a good laugh at this fresh breath of New York.
FREDO: Gee, Frankie, it's good to see you. Reminds me of old times.
PENTANGELI: You remember Willy Cicci, don't you, Freddie? We was all together with the old man Clemenza in Brooklyn. before.uh.
FREDO: We were all upset about that.
PENTANGELI: That's what I'm here to talk to your brother about. What's with him, I got to get a letter of introduction to have a 'sitdown'?
FREDO: ( throwing his arm around him ) C'mon, I see what I can do.
SANDRA: Michael, this is Gardner Shaw. Francesca and he have been seeing each other for six months now. Gardner, this is Francie's Uncle I've heard a lot about you, Mr. Sit down. Francie. The couple sit themselves on the sofa opposite Michael.
GARDNER: ( a little nervous ) I've heard a lot about you, Mr. Sit down. Francie. The couple sit themselves on the sofa opposite Michael.
SANDRA: They would like to set an engagement date, and.
MICHAEL: Let them speak for themselves. VIEW ON MICHAEL, calm, thoughtful. One can tell that he has special affection for his niece.
FRANCESCA: We love each other, Uncle Michael. And, we want to be married. I came to ask for your blessing. There is a loud KNOCKING on the door; then Fredo's voice.
NERI: Not now, Freddie.
FREDO: Tell Mike Frankie 'Five-Angels' is Not now. Neri closes the door, and Michael looks at the nervous young Francesca is my oldest brother's daughter. He died many years ago, and ever since I've felt much more of a father than an uncle. I love her very much. I'm pleased and impressed that you had the thought to come to me before going on with your plans. It shows me that you're a considerate man, and will be good to her. What are you studying in college?
NERI: Not now. Neri closes the door, and Michael looks at the nervous young Francesca is my oldest brother's daughter. He died many years ago, and ever since I've felt much more of a father than an uncle. I love her very much. I'm pleased and impressed that you had the thought to come to me before going on with your plans. It shows me that you're a considerate man, and will be good to her. What are you studying in college?
MICHAEL: Francesca is my oldest brother's daughter. He died many years ago, and ever since I've felt much more of a father than an uncle. I love her very much. I'm pleased and impressed that you had the thought to come to me before going on with your plans. It shows me that you're a considerate man, and will be good to her. What are you studying in college?
GARDNER: My major is Fine Arts, sir.
MICHAEL: How will Fine Arts support your new It's embarrassing to say, sir, but I'm a major stockholder in the family corporation.
GARDNER: It's embarrassing to say, sir, but I'm a major stockholder in the family corporation.
MICHAEL: ( smiling ) Never be embarrassed by your wealth. This recent contempt for money is still another trick of the rich to keep the poor without it. ( warmly ) Of course I give you my blessing. Let's set the wedding soon.it will be my pleasure to give the bride away. They all smile, and rise.
MICHAEL: ( continuing ) .and take a few courses in Business Administration just to be on the safe side! They laugh; Michael moves toward them. Francesca throws her arms around him, and kisses her favorite uncle. The flushed young man shakes his hand heartily.
FRANCESCA: Thank you, Uncle Michael. They all take their leave; Michael turns to Hagen.
MICHAEL: Make her dowry impressive. He comes from a family who still thinks an Italian bride goes EXT. TAHOE SWIMMING POOLS AND HARBOR - DAY Francesca and Gardner are greeted by her twin sister and their young friends, who squeal and embrace at the good news. Someone throws someone in the pool, and life is good.
MED. CLOSE: Francesca kisses her Aunt Kay.
FRANCESCA: Uncle Michael is the greatest man VIEW on Kay - happy for her niece.
MICHAEL: It's him. Fabrizzio. Revenge is a dish that tastes best when it's cold.
NERI: How do you want me to handle it? Michael glances at Hagen, who has been waiting in the room.
MICHAEL: Later. Tom? Hagen brings him a folder; then, as Michael glances through I've cleared it through the Senator's chief aide, a man named Turnbull. Turnbull's a heavy gambler, and into us for over a hundred grand, so I figure his information is reliable. Neri moves to the bar, to prepare Michael a drink.
HAGEN: I've cleared it through the Senator's chief aide, a man named Turnbull. Turnbull's a heavy gambler, and into us for over a hundred grand, so I figure his information is reliable. Neri moves to the bar, to prepare Michael a drink.
HAGEN: The Senator can be set up; but he thinks of himself as a clean politician. So it's got to be on terms he can live with: campaign contribution, donation to a charitable cause that he controls, things like that. If he gets even the inkling that you think you're buying him, he'll freeze up. Nevada's a funny state, they like things both ways here. All right. Turnbull says the Senator will be here at two-thirty, and he's been primed. He knows you'll want to meet with him alone, and he knows it's about the Tropicana's license. At any rate, he expects to be introduced around to some of the influential people here today, and generally treated as an ordinary guest. Just go light on him, Mikey, sometimes the biggest crooks don't like to think of themselves as crooks. Michael glances at Hagen, as though that last remark was I'm sorry; of course, you know that.
HAGEN: I'm sorry; of course, you know that.
MICHAEL: Two-thirty. That gives me time to see my boy.
HAGEN: Connie's outside. Michael doesn't want to see her.
HAGEN: I promised; she said it was urgent. Michael nods.
MICHAEL: All right. Apologize to Pentangeli. Neri opens the door; Hagen exits, and Connie steps in impatiently, followed by Merle.
MICHAEL: I said I would see my sister, alone.
MERLE: I think this concerns me too. You don't, do you? Connie steps forward, kisses Michael on the cheek.
CONNIE: How are you, honey? You've met Merle, haven't you. He was with me in Vegas.
MICHAEL: I saw him with you.
CONNIE: We're going to Europe next week. I want to get passage booked on the Why do you come to me? Why don't you go to a travel agent?
MICHAEL: Why do you come to me? Why don't you go to a travel agent?
MERLE: We're going to get married first. Michael is silent. Then he rises, and moves to the window overlooking the lake.
MICHAEL: The ink on your divorce isn't dry. Your children see you on weekends; your oldest boy, Michael Francis. was in some trouble with the Reno police over some petty theft that you don't even know about.
CONNIE: You fly around the world with lazy young men who don't have any love for you, and use you like a whore.
MICHAEL: You fly around the world with lazy young men who don't have any love for you, and use you like a whore.
CONNIE: You're not my father!
MICHAEL: Then why do you come to me?
CONNIE: Because I need MONEY!
MICHAEL: ( softly ) Connie, I want to be reasonable with you. You have a house here, with us. You can live here with your kids.and you won't be deprived of anything. I don't know much about Merle; I don't know what he does for a living; what he lives on. Why don't you tell him marriage is really out of the question; and that you can't see him any more. He'll understand. But if you disobey me, and marry this pimp.it would disappoint me.
CONNIE: It was my father's money; and I'm entitled to what I need. Where is Tom Hagen? She turns angrily, leaving Michael standing face to face with Merle.
MICHAEL: Are you finished?
MERLE: I think so.
MICHAEL: Then out. Merle puts out his cigarette and leaves, quickly.
CLOSE VIEW: Pentangeli has led Mama up to the dance floor, and is having some difficulty with the orchestra.
PENTANGELI: I can't believe that out of thirty professional musicians, not one of you is Italian! C'mon, give us a tarantella. He waves his hands, conducting, and singing. The piano starts a vamp, the drums uncertainly join in. A clarinet starts to play "Pop Goes the Weasel," and soon the rest of the orchestra is playing that. They look to Pentangeli for approval. Disgusted, he goes back to his table, eating a handful of canapes.
MICHAEL: Rocco, his friends must be hungry. See what you can do, but I'd like to keep them away from the guests. The older man, JOHNNY 'BLUE BOY' OLA, gestures to his bodyguards, and they follow Lampone.
MICHAEL: You know my lawyer, Tom Hagen. Johnny Ola.
OLA: Sure, I remember Tom from the old Tom shakes hands with Ola, remembering him, and his Tom isn't going to sit in with us, Johnny. He only handles specific areas of the family business. Tom?
MICHAEL: Tom isn't going to sit in with us, Johnny. He only handles specific areas of the family business. Tom?
HAGEN: Sure, Mikey. He gathers up some of his papers, as the three men remain silent, waiting for him to go before they talk. It's clear Tom doesn't want to be excluded.
HAGEN: If you need anything, just.
MICHAEL: Just tell Rocco I'm waiting. Hagen nods and leaves. As soon as the door closes:
OLA: I just left our friend in Miami.
MICHAEL: How is his health?
OLA: Not good.
MICHAEL: Is there anything I can do; anything I can send?
OLA: He appreciates your concern, Michael, and your respect. There's a KNOCK on the door; a moment, and then Rocco quietly enters and takes his place without disturbing the The hotel's registered owners are one Jacob Lawrence, and Sidney Barclay, both Beverly Hills attorneys. In reality it's split between the Old Lakeville Road Group from Cleveland, and our friend in Miami. He takes care of others outside the country, you know who I mean. Meyer Klingman runs the store, and does all right, but I've been instructed to tell you, that if you move him out, our friend in Miami will go along with He's very kind, tell him it's appreciated. I'm sure it will be profitable all the way around.
OLA: The hotel's registered owners are one Jacob Lawrence, and Sidney Barclay, both Beverly Hills attorneys. In reality it's split between the Old Lakeville Road Group from Cleveland, and our friend in Miami. He takes care of others outside the country, you know who I mean. Meyer Klingman runs the store, and does all right, but I've been instructed to tell you, that if you move him out, our friend in Miami will go along with He's very kind, tell him it's appreciated. I'm sure it will be profitable all the way around.
MICHAEL: He's very kind, tell him it's appreciated. I'm sure it will be profitable all the way around.
OLA: He always makes money for his partners. One by one, our old friends are gone. Death, natural or not, prison, deported. Our friend in Miami is the only one left, because he always made money for his partners. The door opens suddenly, and standing there in his white Communion suit, is Michael's boy Anthony. A moment later, Kay appears, and takes the boy's hand.
KAY: Anthony, Daddy's busy.
MICHAEL: ( rising ) This is my boy, and my wife. Mr. John Ola of Miami.
KAY: I'm sorry, Michael. Senator Geary's here, and Mr. and Mrs. Barrett wanted to thank you before they left. Won't you join us, Mr. Mr. Ola's just leaving, Kay. Please tell the Senator I won't be a minute. Pause; she stands there a moment.
MICHAEL: Mr. Ola's just leaving, Kay. Please tell the Senator I won't be a minute. Pause; she stands there a moment.
MICHAEL: ( continuing ) Yes, Michael.
KAY: Yes, Michael.
MED. VIEW: Anthony runs away from her, heading toward the house.
KAY: ( she runs after him ) Anthony, where are you going? Moodily, the boy stops, turns, and walks back to his table of honor without answering her.
HAGEN: Where's my wife?
SANDRA: With Mama, putting the baby to sleep. Francesca's very happy. Michael was kind to her. She idolizes him. The children are all out in the speedboat. I'm going to my house. Sandra gets up, still an attractive woman, and walks alone to the back path that leads to her home on the estate.
MAESTRO: Ladies and gentlemen, a most distinguished guest would like to say a few words: Senator and Mrs. Pat Geary of the state of Nevada! A big hand, as the smiling SENATOR introduces his WIFE by holding her arm up to the crowd, and then proceeds alone to the bandstand.
MED. VIEW: Michael stands with Kay and Mrs. Geary. The Senator's presence seems to be a statement of political and social A little distance away, his beautiful son Anthony sits quietly, in an unmistakably morose mood.
HAGEN: ( quietly ) He doesn't want my help any more. He doesn't need it.
SANDRA: We don't know that's true, he never said that.
HAGEN: I can feel it in the way he talks to me. He moves to the dresser; pours himself a drink.
HAGEN: Just now when Johnny Ola showed up, he asked me to leave them alone. Ola is Hyman Roth's Sicilian contact. I was on the inside of ten, twenty meetings with him. But today Mike asked me to leave, like an outsider.
SANDRA: Talk to him. Tell him how you feel.
HAGEN: It's as though he blames me for the ground the family lost when I was Consigliere to Sonny. Sandra pulls Hagen to her, and kisses him passionately on the mouth.
HAGEN: I love Michael, I want to help him, be close to him. I don't want to end up a third string lawyer making property settlements for the hotels. Sandra knows he needs her. Slowly she begins to undress.
SANDRA: We have a little time now.
SENATOR GEARY: .my thanks, and the thanks of the young people of the State of Nevada, for this most impressive .made to the University in the name of Anthony Vito Corleone. Thank you, Mr. and Mrs. Michael Applause. Senator Geary returns the microphone to the Maestro who adds:
MAESTRO: And now, the Nevada Boys' Choir have prepared a special thank you for Mr. Michael Corleone. He turns to a small Choir Master, who leads the Boys' Choir in a choral arrangement of "MR. WONDERFUL."
SENATOR GEARY: Where can we meet alone? Michael indicates the boathouse a distance away, where Neri seems to be waiting for them. Then Michael leans to Rocco:
MICHAEL: Find Hagen. Rocco sets off; as more pictures are taken, and the:
BOYS' CHOIR: sings its lovely arrangement of "Mr. Wonderful."
MICHAEL: It was very kind of you to come to my home on this occasion, Senator. My wife has been very concerned with making a good impression on the people who are our neighbors, and your appearance here has made her very happy. If I can ever perform a service for you, you only have to ask. The door opens, and Hagen sheepishly makes his way in.
MICHAEL: My lawyer, Tom Hagen. He arranged this all through your man Turnbull.
SENATOR GEARY: I thought we would meet alone.
MICHAEL: I trust these men with my life. They are my right arms; I cannot insult them by sending them away.
SENATOR GEARY: ( taking out some medication ) Some water. He addresses that to Neri, who resentfully goes to fetch the Senator a glass of water.
SENATOR GEARY: Alright, Corleone. I'm going to be very frank with you. Maybe more frank than any man in my position has ever spoken to you before. Michael nods, indicating that he should do so.
SENATOR GEARY: The Corleone family controls two major hotels in Vegas; one in Reno. The licenses were grandfathered in, so you had no difficulties with the Gaming Commission. But I have the idea from sources. .that you're planning to move in on the Tropicana. In another week or so you'll move Klingman out, which leaves you with only one technicality. The license, which is now in Klingman's name.
MICHAEL: Turnbull is a good man.
SENATOR GEARY: Let's forget the bullshit, I don't want to stay here any longer than I have to. You can have the license for two hundred and fifty thousand in cash, plus a monthly fee equal to five percent of the gross. Michael is taken aback; he looks at Hagen.
SENATOR GEARY: .of all three Corleone hotels. Hagen is frustrated; all his information was wrong.
MICHAEL: Senator Geary, I speak to you as a businessman who has made a large investment in your state. I have made that state my home; plan to raise my children here. The license fee from the Gambling Commission costs one thousand dollars; why would I ever consider paying more?
SENATOR GEARY: I'm going to squeeze you, Corleone, because I don't like you; I don't like the kind of man you are. I despise your masquerade, and the dishonest way you pose yourself and your fucking family.
MICHAEL: ( quietly ) We're all part of the same hypocrisy, Senator. But never think it applies to my family.
SENATOR GEARY: All right, then let me say you'll pay me because it's in your interests to pay me.
SENATOR GEARY: I'll expect your answer, with payment, by tomorrow morning. Only don't contact me.from now on, deal only through Turnbull. He is almost out the door.
MICHAEL: ( cold and calm ) .you can have my answer now if you'd like. Geary turns back.
MICHAEL: My offer is this. Nothing.not even the thousand dollars for the Gaming Commission, which I'd appreciate if you would put up Geary returns Michael's hard look; then laughs and leaves. Slowly Michael turns to Hagen.
MICHAEL: It's all right, Tom, we'll talk later. Tell Frankie Pentangeli I'd like him to have dinner at my family table before we do business.
MED. VIEW: Michael sits at a large table with Kay, his son Anthony, Mama, Hagen and TERESA, Connie and Merle' Fredo and Deanna, and Frankie Pentangeli.
MAMA: Cent' Anne. This, the table of honor, all raise their glasses and repeat the toast.
DEANNA: What's 'cent' Anne?'
FREDO: A hundred years.it's a toast.
CONNIE: It means we should all live happily for one hundred years. The family. If my Father were alive, it'd be Merle, have you met my sister-in- law Deanna?
MAMA: Merle, have you met my sister-in- law Deanna?
CONNIE: Merle, have you met my sister-in- law Deanna?
DEANNA: What a pleasure, Merle.
MAMA: ( Sicilian ) Those two are perfect for each other.
MERLE: What's that mean?
CONNIE: ( Sicilian ) Michael, in all respect, I didn't come three thousand miles for dinner.
PENTANGELI: ( Sicilian ) Michael, in all respect, I didn't come three thousand miles for dinner.
MICHAEL: ( Sicilian ) I know.
PENTANGELI: ( Sicilian ) When do we talk?
MICHAEL: ( Sicilian ) After dinner. By now, the conversation has become exclusively Sicilian, with Merle and Deanna, looking from side to side like in a tennis match. Finally, Kay, to be polite:
KAY: Anthony, you were talking to Mr. His name is "Five-Angels."
ANTHONY: His name is "Five-Angels."
PENTANGELI: Yeah, the kid and me talked Sicilian. A one-way conversation!
PENTANGELI: Sure, Pete Clemenza died of a heart attack, but the Rosato Brothers gave it to him.
MICHAEL: We were all heartbroken at the news; but that wasn't cause to start a war.
PENTANGELI: Okay, now it's my family in Brooklyn; and I wanna keep up Clemenza's loyalty to you. But how can I run my family with you challenging my every move? You're too far from the street, Mike, the only way to reason with the Rosato Brothers is to whack 'em and whack 'em fast.
MICHAEL: You were unfair with them.
PENTANGELI: Says who?
MICHAEL: Clemenza promised Rosato three territories in the Bronx after he died, and then you took over and Clemenza promised them nothing, he hated the sonsuvbitches.
PENTANGELI: Clemenza promised them nothing, he hated the sonsuvbitches.
MICHAEL: They feel cheated.
PENTANGELI: Michael, you're sitting up here in the Sierra Mountains with champagne cocktails making judgment on the way I run my family.
MICHAEL: ( suddenly in Sicilian ) Your family still carries the name Corleone, and you will run it like a Corleone!
PENTANGELI: ( Sicilian ) And while I feed my family in New York, you put the knife in my back in Miami.
MICHAEL: ( firm ) Frankie, you're a good old man, and you've been loyal to my Father for years.so I hope you can explain what you mean.
PENTANGELI: The Rosatos are running crazy; taking hostages, spitting in my face, because they're backed by the Jew in Miami.
MICHAEL: I know. That's why I want you to be fair with them.
PENTANGELI: How can you be fair with animals? They recruit niggers and spicks; they do violence in their own Grandmother's neighborhoods. And everything is dope and whores; the gambling is left to last. Let me run my family without you on my back. I want them taken care of.
MICHAEL: No. There are things that I have planned with Hyman Roth. I don't want them disturbed.
PENTANGELI: You give your loyalty to a Jew over your own blood.
MICHAEL: Frankie, you know my father respected Roth, did business with He did business.but he never trusted him. Pentangeli takes his hat, and leaves.
PENTANGELI: He did business.but he never trusted him. Pentangeli takes his hat, and leaves.
NERI: Should he go?
MICHAEL: The old man had too much vino rosso, or he'd never talk openly that way. Let him go back to New York; I've already made my plans. It's late; I've spent so little time at the party.
DEANNA: I wanta dance.whatsa matter with Dancing is alright; you're falling on the floor.
FREDO: Dancing is alright; you're falling on the floor.
DEANNA: Whatsamatter, you don't want me to dance with him 'cause he's a man!
FREDO: Deanna, I'm going to belt you right in the mouth!
DEANNA: These Eye-ties are really crazy when it comes to their wives. By now guests are starting to notice the disturbance; Michael is with Kay, and some friends; Rocco catches his eye.
ROCCO: Freddie, Mike says take care of it, or I have to.
DEANNA: He's a friend of your brother! Without another word, Rocco grabs firm hold of her and whisks her out of the crowd.
DEANNA: "Shuffle off to Buffa. Shuffle off to Buffa. Shuffle off to Buffalooooo." Freddie mops his forehead, and moves to Michael.
FREDO: Hey Mike, what can I say?
MICHAEL: Forget it, just go take care of her.
MICHAEL: How's the baby?
KAY: Sleeping inside me.
MICHAEL: Does it feel like a boy?
KAY: Yes, Michael, it does.
MICHAEL: I'm sorry about some of the people I had to see today. It was bad timing. but it couldn't be helped.
KAY: It made me think of what you told me once. In five years, the Corleone family will be completely legitimate. That was seven years He has no answer for her; except that he loves and values her, and holds her tight, as they dance amid their guests, all dressed elegantly for the social event of the season. The VIEW LOOSENS to show the entire, night-lit party.
NERI: Are you Klingman?
KLINGMAN: Who's asking?
NERI: Where can we talk?
KLINGMAN: Right here.
NERI: I represent the interests of the Corleone family. We make the invitation to you to tie up your affairs and be out of the hotel by Monday morning.
KLINGMAN: Who do you think you're talking to?
NERI: You said you were Klingman.
KLINGMAN: You don't come in here, talk to an owner in Las Vegas like that.
NERI: You missed my point; you are no longer an owner.
KLINGMAN: Get out of my hotel. Neri stands in front of him, smiling.
KLINGMAN: Boys, get him out of here. Quickly, Neri moves toward Klingman, and slaps him hard several times in the face, knocking off his glasses. Red- faced, Klingman gets down on his knees to pick them up once, again. Glasses on, he looks to his guards.
HIS VIEW: Neri keeps coming.
KLINGMAN: All right! All right, I'll be out. Neri keeps moving, then heads past the terrified man, sits down at a table, and looks up at the stage.
NERI: ( to the staring performers ) Keep it going.
MED. VIEW: Michael walks alone, followed by two of the family dogs, Irish Setters. He walks to the water line, and looks out across the lake. He picks up a stick, and throws it for the dogs; who go scampering after it. We notice that a respectful distance away, there are bodyguards watching every move he makes.
GENCO: Come on, you've got to see her!
GENCO'S VIEW: A heavy-set, fierce looking Italian wearing an expensive light-colored suit and a cream colored fedora. This is FANUCCI. He is discussing a business matter with the theatre IMPRESARIO; a large, strong looking man, who is sweating nonetheless. He doesn't seem to be giving in to Fanucci. He holds a locked strongbox.
MED. VIEW: The young ACTRESS crosses into the area, unaware of the difficulties. The impresario sees her, and frightened, motions that she should keep away.
IMPRESARIO: But Fanucci grabs her easily by her slender wrist, and with lightning speed, produces a knife which he holds against her cheek. The impresario wrings his hands in agony.
IMPRESARIO: ( Sicilian ) No.please, not my daughter. Whereupon he begins to unlock the box which holds the receipts for the night's box-office.
GENCO: ( Sicilian ) The Black Hand. Then he backs away. Vito looks at him shocked and disappointed in this cowardly behavior. Genco shakes his head, and points, as though to say that where Fanucci is concerned, there is nothing to be done.
GENCO: ( Sicilian ) Let's get out of here.
FANUCCI: ( Sicilian ) Because you protested, it will cost a hundred more.
GENCO: ( Sicilian ) I know what you are thinking, Vitone, but you don't understand yet how things are. Fanucci is of the Black Hand. Everyone in the neighborhood pays him, even my ( Sicilian ) He's an Italian?
VITO: ( Sicilian ) He's an Italian?
GENCO: ( Sicilian ) A pig of a Neaponitan. ( spits )
VITO: ( Sicilian ) Why? Why does he bother other ( Sicilian ) Because he knows them; he knows they have no one to protect them. Vitone? What do you think of my ( Sicilian ) ( Sicilian ) For you, she is beautiful. For me, there is only my wife!
GENCO: ( Sicilian ) Because he knows them; he knows they have no one to protect them. Vitone? What do you think of my ( Sicilian ) ( Sicilian ) For you, she is beautiful. For me, there is only my wife!
VITO: ( Sicilian ) ( Sicilian ) For you, she is beautiful. For me, there is only my wife!
GENCO: ( Sicilian ) For you, she is beautiful. For me, there is only my wife!
VITO: For you, she is beautiful. For me, there is only my wife!
GENCO: I know. That's why I brought you with me! Genco embraces his good friend, and they laughingly walk down the alley. The stage door opens, and Fanucci exits, a sinister figure in white, moving down the alley just in front of them, into the night. The two friends hold their breath, until he disappears.
GENCO: ( Sicilian ) I bet you can't guess what happened?
VITO: ( Sicilian ) ( Sicilian ) Some guys from Ninth Avenue jumped Fanucci today; slit his throat from ear to ear.
GENCO: ( Sicilian ) Some guys from Ninth Avenue jumped Fanucci today; slit his throat from ear to ear.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) No, I didn't know. Is he dead?
GENCO: ( Sicilian ) Nah. Those guys aren't murderers. They wanted to scare him, that's all. Make him look bad.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) In Sicily, when you attack a man, you had better finish him.
GENCO: ( Sicilian ) I wish they had. He takes fifty dollars a week from my father's cash drawer. But you can't kill a man like Fanucci.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) ( Sicilian ) Because he's what we say. "connected". You wait, see what happens to those guys from Ninth A customer enters; and Genco moves away to serve him.
GENCO: ( Sicilian ) Because he's what we say. "connected". You wait, see what happens to those guys from Ninth A customer enters; and Genco moves away to serve him.
FANUCCI: Buon giorno. Immediately, Vito turns back to his work, and Signor Abbandando moves to Fanucci with a sigh. Vito notices the two men talking quietly at one side of the store, while he goes about his work. Genco works his way closer to his friend.
GENCO: ( Sicilian ) What did I tell you. The one who cut him was found in an alley. And the family of the others paid Fanucci all their savings to make him forswear his vengeance.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) And he agreed?
GENCO: ( Sicilian ) He took the money. Now he wants double from everybody in the neighborhood, including Papa. Vito watches the heated, but inevitable transaction.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) A real mafioso doesn't sell his MED. VIEW Signor Abbandando seems to be arguing with Fanucci, and every so often they turn and relate to where Vito is working. Then Fanucci leaves, the little bell RINGING; and Signor Abbandando reluctantly moves to Vito.
MED. VIEW: Signor Abbandando seems to be arguing with Fanucci, and every so often they turn and relate to where Vito is working. Then Fanucci leaves, the little bell RINGING; and Signor Abbandando reluctantly moves to Vito.
SIG. ABBANDANDO: ( Sicilian ) Vitone. How is your son?
VITO: ( Sicilian ) We are all well. It is clear that he has something difficult to tell the young man.
SIG. ABBANDANDO: Vitone.I.Fanucci has a nephew. Vito looks at him a while, as the old man struggles to tell And you must give him my job. The old man nods, regretfully.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) And you must give him my job. The old man nods, regretfully.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) You have been kind to me since I was a boy; taken care of me, and been as a father. I will always be grateful to you. Thank you. Vito takes off his apron, and leaves, passing the youth who loiters by the counter.
SIG. ABBANDANDO: ( Sicilian o.s. ) He turns, and Abbandando has followed him out of the shop, holding a basket of some groceries.
SIG. ABBANDANDO: Here.for your family.
VITO: No.please understand.I cannot INT. VITO'S TENEMENT - MED. VIEW - NIGHT Vito and his wife sit quietly at the table; the two are quiet and sad. Suddenly, we HEAR a noise, and Vito is astonished to see a young man, PETER CLEMENZA, leaning out of the window on the other side of the air shaft which separates their apartments.
CLEMENZA: Hey Paisan! Hold this for me until I ask for it. Hurry up! Automatically Vito reaches over to the empty space at the air shaft, and takes the bundle of rags. Clemenza's round face is strained and urgent, obviously in some kind of trouble. Suddenly, he closes the window and there is activity that we cannot see in the other apartment. Vito looks to his wife, and then closes the window and window dressing and takes the bundle into a private part of his kitchen and begins to unwrap it.
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) Do you have my goods still? Vito nods.
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) Did you look inside? Vito, his face impassive, shakes his head 'no.'
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) I'm not interested in things that don't concern me.
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) I have a friend who has a fine rug. Maybe your wife would like it.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) We have no money for a rug.
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) No. He would give it away. I know how to repay a consideration. Vito thinks, then nods.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) She would like it.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) Your friend lives in a fine building.
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) Oh yes, the very best. Clemenza knocks on the door as though he is well known here; then rings. No answer.
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) Ah, he's not at home. Oh, well, he wouldn't mind. Quickly and expertly he takes out a tool and pries open the INT. WEALTHY APARTMENT - FULL VIEW - DAY Vito looks in awe at the luxurious apartment, which features a fabulous rich red wool rug. Clemenza immediately moves some of the furniture away, and drops to the floor.
CLEMENZA: A little help. Vito joins him, and the two begin rolling the rug. We HEAR a BUZZER RING. Clemenza immediately drops his side of the roll, and moves to the window. He pulls a gun from his VIEW ON Vito watching. He moves so he can see out the window.
THEIR VIEW: A Policeman stands at the exterior door, waiting. He rings the buzzer again.
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) Good, you waited for us. Clemenza looks up on a higher level.
HIS VIEW: There is a nine year old boy, operating a drill press.
MED. VIEW: ( Sicilian ) Who is he?
TESSIO: ( Sicilian ) Who is he?
AUGUSTINO: ( Sicilian ) My son, Carmine.it's all right. The men then quickly open the packages they've brought; revealing gun, including a more sophisticated machine weapon. Augustino takes them and expertly begins to clean and prepare them.
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) Paisan Augustino was a gunsmith in the Italian army. We do each other ( Sicilian ) My boy is studying the flute. He plays very well. He helps me at night so we can buy him a silver flute someday. Now he has one made of wood. Carmine.play.play for my friends.
AUGUSTINO: ( Sicilian ) My boy is studying the flute. He plays very well. He helps me at night so we can buy him a silver flute someday. Now he has one made of wood. Carmine.play.play for my friends.
FULL VIEW: The men listening, as the boy's father prepares their guns.
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) Lady, I got a bargain on these dresses. Five dollars each. You gotta pay at least fifteen, maybe twenty in a store. Look at them, first class. He holds the dresses up and the woman seems interested. She handles a couple of them and stands aside so Clemenza can enter her apartment.
WOMAN: ( Sicilian ) I don't know which one I like best. She holds the dresses against her body, Clemenza approving of each one; and then she goes to her purse and takes out five singles and gives them to him.
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) You'd look beautiful in all of these. You should buy at least two.
WOMAN: ( Sicilian ) Are you kidding? My husband will kill me if he knows I paid five dollars for one dress. She holds one up, then another. She is torn. Clemenza shakes his head and straightens the dress on her body. His hand brushes her arm; she looks at him smiling.
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) You can have two for five. She smiles back.
TESSIO: ( Sicilian ) What took so long?
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) She couldn't decide. Tessio and Clemenza each take more armsful of dresses and divide the neighborhood.
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) Vito, take the rest of the stock over to Dandine's warehouse; he'll move it to a wholesaler. The three part. Vito drives the truck off.
MOVING VIEW: Vito drives the truck through the downtown streets; he turns a corner and stops for a light. Suddenly, to his left, he sees the formidable figure of He grabs young Corleone by the shoulder.
FANUCCI: ( Sicilian ) Ahhh, young fellow. People tell me you're rich, you and your two friends. Yet, you don't show enough respect to send a few dresses to my home. You know I have three daughters. Vito says nothing. Fanucci thumbs through the stock.
FANUCCI: ( Sicilian ) This is my neighborhood. You and your friends have to show me a little respect, ah? This truck you hijacked was in my neighborhood. You should let me wet my beak a Fanucci takes a few of the dresses.
FANUCCI: ( Sicilian ) I understand each of you cleared around six hundred dollars. I expect two hundred dollars for my protection and I'll forget the insult. After all, young people don't know the courtesies due a man like myself. Vito smiles at him and nods.
FANUCCI: ( Sicilian ) Otherwise the police will come to see you and your wife and children will be dishonored and destitute. Of course, if my information as to your gains is incorrect, I'll dip my beak just a little. Just a little, but no less than one hundred dollars, and don't try to deceive me, eh paisan?
VITO: ( Sicilian ) My two friends have my share of the money. I'll have to speak to them after we deliver these to the ( Sicilian ) You tell your friends I expect them to let me wet my beak in the same manner. Don't be afraid to tell them. Clemenza and I know each other well, he understands these things. Let yourself be guided by him. He has more experience in these matters.
FANUCCI: ( Sicilian ) You tell your friends I expect them to let me wet my beak in the same manner. Don't be afraid to tell them. Clemenza and I know each other well, he understands these things. Let yourself be guided by him. He has more experience in these matters.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) You must understand, this is all new to me.
FANUCCI: ( Sicilian ) I understand.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) But thank you for speaking to me as a Godfather.
FANUCCI: ( Sicilian ) You're a good fellow. He takes Vito's hands and clasps them in his own.
FANUCCI: ( Sicilian ) You have respect. A fine thing in the young. Next time, speak to me first, eh? Perhaps I can help you make your plans. Fanucci turns with the dresses draped over his arms, waving to Vito. Vito throws the truck in gear, and drives off.
TESSIO: ( Sicilian ) Do you think he'd be satisfied with the two hundred dollars? I think he would.
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) That scar-faced bastard will find out what we got from the wholesaler. He won't take a dime less than three hundred dollars.
TESSIO: ( Sicilian ) What if we don't pay?
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) You know his friends.real animals. And his connections with the police. Sure he'd like us to tell him our plans so he can set us up for the cops and earn their gratitude. Then they would owe him a favor; that's how he operates. We'll have to pay. Three hundred, are we ( Sicilian ) What can we do? Clemenza doesn't even bother checking for Vito's opinion.
TESSIO: ( Sicilian ) What can we do? Clemenza doesn't even bother checking for Vito's opinion.
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) They say Fanucci has a license from Maranzalla himself to work this ( Sicilian ) If you like, why not give me fifty dollars each to pay Fanucci. I guarantee he will accept that amount from me.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) If you like, why not give me fifty dollars each to pay Fanucci. I guarantee he will accept that amount from me.
TESSIO: ( Sicilian ) When Fanucci says two hundred he means two hundred. You can't talk with him.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) I'll reason with him. Leave everything in my hands. I'll settle this problem to your Tessio and Clemenza regard him suspiciously.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) I never lie to people I've accepted as my friends. Speak to Fanucci yourself tomorrow. Let him ask you for the money, but don't pay it, and don't in any way quarrel with him. Tell him you have to get the money and will send me as your messenger. Let him understand that you're willing to pay what he asks, don't bargain. I'll go to his house, and quarrel with him. He likes me; enjoys explaining how things are here. He uses ten sentences when he only needs one, so while he talks, I'll kill him. Clemenza, irritated, makes a large belch, and washes his food down with wine.
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) ( to Tessio ) Our driver has drunk too much wine.
TESSIO: ( Sicilian ) He's going to kill Fanucci.
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) Then, after that, what? Joe 'Little Knife' Pisani; Willie Bufalino, maybe, Mr. Maranzalla himself, c'mon!
VITO: ( Sicilian ) Fanucci is not connected; he is ( Sicilian ) What? You read it in the papers?
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) What? You read it in the papers?
VITO: ( Sicilian ) This man informs to the police; this man allows his vengeance to be bought off. No, he is alone.
TESSIO: ( Sicilian ) If you're wrong.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) If I'm wrong, they will kill me. Both Clemenza and Tessio are impressed with their young friend; his willingness to risk his life on his perception of the situation.
MOVING VIEW: Clemenza moves along the booths that have been set up along the street: sausage cooking on an open fire; pork livers and sweetbeards. He stops for a sandwich, and makes an irritated gesture when the vendor expects to be paid. He crosses to a church-sponsored booth with a great Wheel of Fortune, and slaps a dollar on a number. Standing next to him is Vito; they embrace.
CLEMENZA: ( Sicilian ) All three daughters are at church; he is alone. It's important that you let his neighbors see you leave. Tessio has broken the latch on the skylight of his building. The wheel stops; they both lose.
CLEMENZA: ( English ) See, Brother Carmello, even the church makes numbers.
PRIEST: ( English ) It's only the way we collect that's Vito has left while Clemenza jokes with the Priest.
FANUCCI: ( Sicilian ) I think there's only two hundred dollars under my hat. ( he peeks ) I'm right. Only two hundred dollars.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) I'm a little short. I've been out of work. Let me owe you the money for a few weeks.
FANUCCI: ( Sicilian ) Ah, you're a sharp young fellow. How is it I've never noticed you ( he takes the two hundred and pours some wine for Vito ) You're too quiet for your own interest. I could find some work for you to do that would be very ( he rises ) No hard feelings, eh? If I can ever do you a service let me know. You've done a good job for yourself EXT. FESTA STREET - MED. VIEW - NIGHT By now the musicians have left, but still families are walking the street, and stopping at the booths. Fanucci stands there a moment; he is known by everyone, and considers himself highly loved. Then Fanucci begins the walk through the festa, on his way EXT. ROOFTOPS - MOVING VIEW - NIGHT Vito silently moves along the rooftop; paralleling Fanucci's We HEAR the sounds of the festa, and every so often catch a glimpse of the patterned lights, and the crowds below.
FANUCCI: ( Sicilian ) What's the matter, Signora? You don't say 'good evening'?
WOMAN: ( Sicilian ) 'Good evening,' Signor Fanucci. She quickly disappears behind her door. Fanucci laughs, continues up, singing to himself. The MASS outside is always in evidence.
ANOTHER VIEW: Fanucci opens the door of his apartment, and enters.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) Santino, your papa loves you.
MICHAEL: Can't you sleep? No answer.
MICHAEL: Are you alright?
ANTHONY: Did you like your party?
MICHAEL: Did you like your party?
ANTHONY: I got lots of presents.
MICHAEL: Do you like them?
ANTHONY: I didn't know the people who gave them to me.
MICHAEL: They were friends. He kisses his boy, and then turns.
ANTHONY: Did you see my present for you?
MICHAEL: No, where is it?
ANTHONY: On your pillow.
MICHAEL: I'm leaving very early tomorrow, before you wake up.
ANTHONY: I know. How long will you be gone?
MICHAEL: Just a few days.
ANTHONY: Will you take me?
MICHAEL: I can't.
ANTHONY: Why do you have to go?
MICHAEL: To do business.
ANTHONY: I can help you.
MICHAEL: Some day you will. Michael kisses him again.
KAY: Michael? Why are the drapes open? His eyes dart back to the curved, beautifully leaded windows of the room. The DRAPES are opened. Then, without a second's hesitation, he leaps to the floor, still holding his son's drawing, as a spray of machine gun bullets sweep across the windows; glass shattering all over the room. Kay screams out; rising, still half-asleep. Michael crawls toward her, and pulls her down to the floor to him. Then, for a moment, there is silence, soon filled by the shouts of men; as flashes of light sweep by the window, as guards with flashlights come running. Michael holds Kay to him, knowing they have both survived, and then gently:
MICHAEL: Go with the kids.
ROCCO: They're still on the property. Maybe you better stay inside.
MICHAEL: Keep them alive. Six men take up posts by Michael's house.
ROCCO: We'll try.
MICHAEL: It's important. He returns inside.
FULL VIEW: Off in the distance, we see another group of men with flashlights combing the waterline. We hear indistinguishable VIEW ON THE KENNELS The wire gates are opened, and the trained dogs go out yelping into the outer edge of the estate.
ROOFTOP: One of Rocco's men turns the large floodlight scanning darkened forest areas, where men could hide.
MOVING VIEW: Men with flashlights and dogs. Moving through the dark areas.
LOOSE VIEW: A small Corleone launch, with a bright spotlight slowly cruises the boundaries of the estate. We SEE the silhouette of men with guns, quietly waiting and watching.
MICHAEL: It will be all right. We were lucky. She says nothing; but her face expresses the anger she feels over the jeopardy Michael has placed his children in. She holds her young daughter in her arms. The door opens, and Rocco enters. He quickly realizes he is holding his gun in plain view in front of the family, and puts it away. Michael moves to him, and they talk a distance away from Kay.
ROCCO: Your family all seem to be okay in the other houses; your Mother's still sleeping.
MICHAEL: No sign of them yet; but they're still on the Estate. We HEAR loud shouting from outside.
ROCCO: No sign of them yet; but they're still on the Estate. We HEAR loud shouting from outside.
MICHAEL'S VIEW: Through the door, that Rocco opens. Deanna, in her nightgown, has been frightened by the gunshots; while Fredo in his bathrobe, tries to get her back into the house.
FREDO: Deanna, will you get back into the I'm getting out of here I said; these guys all have guns!
DEANNA: I'm getting out of here I said; these guys all have guns!
MICHAEL: Fredo, can't you shut that woman up! Get her in here! The bodyguards, gracefully help Fredo bring the hysterical Deanna into the safety of the house.
DEANNA: ( whimpering ) I don't want to stay here.
FREDO: Mike, what can I do, she's a hysterical woman.
KAY: Leave her alone! You're talking as though she has no right to be frightened when there are machine guns going off in her backyard.
MICHAEL: ( to Rocco ) Have Tom Hagen meet me in the Harbor House.
FULL VIEW: In the distance, we can see the teams of men and dogs, with their lights, guns and shouts, combing every inch of the INT. THE BOATHOUSE - EMPTY VIEW - NIGHT Michael alone in the great room. He moves to a walk-in safe, quickly runs through the combination, and opens it. He takes out an envelope, and puts it into his pocket; there's a KNOCK on the door, and Hagen enters. He had been asleep, and has quickly thrown on a robe.
MICHAEL: Sit down, Tom.
MICHAEL: There's a lot I can't tell you, Tom. I know that's upset you in the past; and you've felt that it was because of some lack of trust or confidence. But it is because I do trust you that I've kept so much secret from you. It's precisely that at this moment, you are the only one that I can completely trust. In time, you'll understand But your people. Neri. Rocco; you don't think.
HAGEN: ( nods with this statement ) But your people. Neri. Rocco; you don't think.
MICHAEL: No, I have confidence in their loyalty. but this is life and death, and Tom, you are my brother. Hagen in very moved.
HAGEN: Mikey, I hoped.
MICHAEL: No Tom, just listen. All my people are businessmen; their loyalty is based on that. One thing I learned from my father is to try to think as the people around you think.and on that basis, anything is possible. Fredo has a good heart, but he is weak.and stupid, and stupid people are the most dangerous of all. I've kept you out of things, Tom, because I've always known that your instincts were legitimate, and I wanted you to know very little of things that would make you an accomplice, for your own protection. I never blamed you for the setbacks the family took under Sonny; I know you were in a position of limited power, and you did your best to advise and caution him. What I am saying is that now, for how long I do not know, you will be the Don. If what I think has happened is true; I will leave tonight, and absolutely no one will know how to contact me. And even you are not to try to reach me unless it is absolutely necessary. I give you complete power: over Neri. Fredo, everyone. I am trusting you with the lives of my wife and children, and the future of this family, solely resting on your judgment and VIEW ON HAGEN A man who has steadily declined over the last five years, realizing that total power and responsibility is being placed on him.
MICHAEL: ( continuing ) .But Tom, you must know that I do this only because I believe you are the only one who is capable of taking over for me.
MICHAEL: I've prepared this; have had it for over a month. It won't explain everything; but indicates where I will be, so in a sense, it is my Also, there are three tasks that must be executed immediately. Pop would have given those to Luca You knew Pop as well as anyone, act as though you were him. It discusses Kay as well; that will be the most difficult. The men who tried to kill me tonight, will never leave the estate.
HAGEN: Will we.be able to get who ordered it out of them?
MICHAEL: I don't think so. Unless I'm very wrong.they're already dead. Killed by someone inside.very frightened that they botched it. That's why I am going to disappear in a few minutes, and leave everything to you.
HAGEN: But if you're wrong.
MICHAEL: If I'm wrong. There is a KNOCK on the door.
MICHAEL: .I don't think I'm wrong. The door opens; it is Rocco; Michael rises, after making a knowing glance toward Tom, and moves to talk quietly to a frightened and agitated Rocco.
HAGEN: Get rid of the bodies. Tomorrow morning I want a report made to the local police, and paper, that some explosives we keep on the property were accidentally ignited. The men respond; Hagen makes the lonely walk back to the lighted section of the compound, which now resembles a prison camp.
SENATOR GEARY: All right, Mr. Hagen, you've got ten minutes. He flicks the switch of a small tape recorder.
SENATOR GEARY: .and the tape will be running.
HAGEN: Actually, I've come with good news; the Corleone family has done you a The Senator immediately shuts the tape recorder off.
SENATOR GEARY: What the hell are you talking about?
HAGEN: We know you're a busy man, with plenty of enemies we saw the opportunity to do you a favor, and we did. No strings.
SENATOR GEARY: No strings.
HAGEN: You know there's a Senate Investigating Committee recently set up; we thought it would be unfortunate if they were to trace anything though-provoking to your No one can trace anything to me; I pride myself on that.
SENATOR GEARY: No one can trace anything to me; I pride myself on that.
HAGEN: Do you gamble?
SENATOR GEARY: A little; what's so thought- provoking about that?
HAGEN: Do you owe markers?
SENATOR GEARY: Maybe two, three thousand dollars. Hagen leans forward, and deposits a handful of paper on the Senator's desk.
HAGEN: The Corleone family has paid them off for you.as an expression of our esteem. Geary quickly looks through the paid markers.
SENATOR GEARY: There's thirty grand worth of paid off markers I never owed that Our mistake. But what does it matter; it was our money. We don't even expect thanks.
HAGEN: Our mistake. But what does it matter; it was our money. We don't even expect thanks.
SENATOR GEARY: You paid off thirty grand I never We'll keep it quiet; the people who know are trustworthy.the Committee needn't find out.
HAGEN: We'll keep it quiet; the people who know are trustworthy.the Committee needn't find out.
SENATOR GEARY: And what's the price of their not finding out.
HAGEN: Simple. Be friendly like us. Not EXT. TAHOE ESTATE - FULL VIEW - DAY There are more men on duty than usual; not that there are guns apparent, but it's clear that the boundaries are being VIEW BY MICHAEL'S HOUSE Kay exits her house, followed by her children; she helps them into her station wagon like any housewife, and drives along the path leading to the main gate. She's about to drive through, when one of the men steps in front of her, raising his hand.
SENATOR GEARY: ( he despises Hagen ) EXT. TAHOE ESTATE - FULL VIEW - DAY There are more men on duty than usual; not that there are guns apparent, but it's clear that the boundaries are being VIEW BY MICHAEL'S HOUSE Kay exits her house, followed by her children; she helps them into her station wagon like any housewife, and drives along the path leading to the main gate. She's about to drive through, when one of the men steps in front of her, raising his hand.
KAY: ( graciously ) I'm sorry, Mrs. Corleone. We're not to let you through.
MAN: I'm sorry, Mrs. Corleone. We're not to let you through.
KAY: ( disbelieving ) I'm going to the market.
MAN: If you could just give us a list, we'll pick up anything you want.
KAY: Whose orders are these?
MAN: Mr. Hagen's, ma'am. We notice Hagen walking to them in the background.
HAGEN: VIEW THROUGH THE GATE Hagen approaches the car; Kay gets out so they can talk away from the children.
HAGEN: I wanted to explain this myself. I had business in Carson City. He walks with her a little way from the others; the children run out of the station wagon, and start to play.
HAGEN: It's Michael's request.for your safety. We can send out for anything you need.
KAY: I'm supposed to stay in my house.
HAGEN: Within the compound will be fine.
KAY: I was supposed to take the children to New England next week.
HAGEN: That's off now.
KAY: I'm going to see my parents.
HAGEN: Kay, Michael didn't tell me a lot; and what he did tell me, I can't repeat. But the responsibility for you and the kids was the most important thing he left me with.
KAY: How long does this go on?
HAGEN: I don't know. I'm sorry, Kay.
KAY: Am I a prisoner?
HAGEN: That's not the way we look at it. Angrily, without another word, Kay turns away from him, and walks to her children, ignoring the running station wagon.
PURSER: ( holding up the telegram ) I'm terribly sorry to disturb you but we have received two telegrams.
MERLE: ( reluctantly ) Well.come in. This entourage enters the suite, an impressive and beautifully spacious luxury suite. Connie is relaxing.
CONNIE: What is it?
PURSER: Yes. One is from our office in New York. The check that you wrote for your passage has been returned.
CONNIE: Can't be.
MERLE: Why don't you wire your bank?
PURSER: The other telegram is from your bank. Your account has been closed and the company is warned not to extend any credit.
CONNIE: I'll take care of it in Naples.
PURSER: The company hopes so. But for now, we have orders to change your And with that, the men in white begin to pack Connie and Merle's luggage.
CONNIE: That son of a bitch!
PORTER: Mr. Paul?
MICHAEL: You ordered lunch?
PORTER: You ordered lunch?
MICHAEL: Put it right there. The porter does so; as he places the tray down, he catches a glimpse of a second person in the compartment with Michael.
HIS VIEW: A very fierce, almost maniacal looking man, BUSSETTA. He nods that the porter should leave.
MICHAEL: Thank you. The porter takes his advice and leaves quickly, closing the door behind him.
CLOSER VIEW: Michael sits behind the wheel of a nondescript late model car. Bussetta sits in the rear. Another car swings into the lot. Michael starts his car, and pulls out of the lot; the second car following.
NEW VIEW: This car pulls out and begins to follow them. Michael glances back by adjusting the rear view mirror, and nods to Michael's car begins to slow down, allowing the other car to overtake them. The overtaking car hesitates a moment, moving side by side with them. Michael glances toward the driver.
MICHAEL'S VIEW: We recognize Johnny Ola, who waves a greeting to Michael, and then continues on to lead him.
MICHAEL: ( Sicilian ) You'll wait in the car. Ola has gotten out of his car and walks up the little path to the front door. Michael waits. Ola rings the bell, and after a moment, a rather pretty, middle-aged WOMAN answers, remaining behind the screen door. Ola says a few things to her and she disappears, leaving the door open. Ola comes down the steps, looks at Michael, nodding to him. Ola then gets into his car and drives off. Michael walks up the walkway and enters the little house, closing the door behind him. This woman, TERRI ROTH, is in the kitchen, looking out at I'm just going to make lunch. How about a tuna fish sandwich?
TERRI: I'm just going to make lunch. How about a tuna fish sandwich?
MICHAEL: Thank you, Mrs. Roth. She hurries halfway up the staircase.
TERRI: Hyman.HYMAN, your friend is here. Why don't you go right upstairs, Mr. He continues upstairs; she goes into the kitchen.
MICHAEL: He continues upstairs; she goes into the kitchen.
TERRI: I'll give a yell when lunch is ready. Michael continues up to a small den on the second floor; we can HEAR the sound of a baseball game coming over the INT. HYMAN ROTH'S DEN - DAY Michael enters the den: it's very comfortable, but somewhat like a senior citizen's retirement home in Florida.
MICHAEL'S VIEW: There, sitting before the television is a small man in his middle sixties, thin, with a wizened face, looking like a small-time retired Jewish businessman. This is HYMAN ROTH.
ROTH: Sit down, this is almost over. You follow the baseball games?
MICHAEL: Not for a few years.
ROTH: I like sporting events I really enjoy watching them in the afternoon. One of the things I love about this country. I loved baseball ever since Arnold Rothstein fixed the World Series of 1919.I heard you had some trouble.
MICHAEL: What a mistake; people behaving like that, with guns. It was my understanding we left all that behind. But, let me tell you, the important thing is that you're all right. Good health is the most important thing; more than success; more than power; more than money.
ROTH: What a mistake; people behaving like that, with guns. It was my understanding we left all that behind. But, let me tell you, the important thing is that you're all right. Good health is the most important thing; more than success; more than power; more than money.
MICHAEL: The incident of the other night is a nuisance that I can take care of. I came to you because I want nothing to affect our agreement; I wanted to clear everything I'm going to do with you, just in case.
ROTH: You're a considerate young man.
MICHAEL: You're a great man, Mr. Roth, I have much to learn from you.
ROTH: ( warmly ) However I can help you.
MICHAEL: The Rosato Brothers have performed services for you in the past; I understand that they are under your We do favors for each other.
ROTH: ( simply ) We do favors for each other.
MICHAEL: Technically, they are still under the Clemenza wing of the Corleone Family, now run by Frankie Pentangeli. After Clemenza died, the Rosatos wanted territory of their own. Pentangeli refused, and came to me, asking for permission to eliminate them. I, of course, knew of their relationship with you, and in gratitude for your help with the Tropicana matter, turned him down. Pentangeli was furious, and paid one hundred and fifty thousand dollars to have me killed. I was lucky and he was stupid. I'll visit him soon. The important thing is that nothing jeopardize our plans, yours and mine. This thing of ours, that we will build. The old man touches Michael's hand, warmly.
ROTH: Nothing is more important.
MICHAEL: ( quietly ) Pentangeli is a dead man; do you It's always bad for business; but you have no choice.
ROTH: It's always bad for business; but you have no choice.
MICHAEL: Then it's done. I must choose his replacement: it cannot be Rosato.
ROTH: Of course you must keep control of your family. He turns to Michael, turning the volume higher on the television, and moving closer to his young partner.
ROTH: Michael, these things are unimportant. Who should be the manager of a dime store, Joe or Jack? Unimportant. You do what you think is right. You're a young man, and I'm old and sick. What we do together in the next few months will be history, Michael; it has never been done before. We will do this historical thing together, and even your Father could never dream it would be possible. We are bigger than U.S. Steel, you and me. because in America, anything is possible! But soon I will be dead, and it will all belong to you. There is a KNOCK on the door, and Terri Roth pushes the door open with her hip.
TERRI: My goodness, you'll rupture your eardrums, Hyman. She puts the tray down, and turns down the television.
MED. VIEW: The black car pulls up; another car that had been following it parks nearby. One of Pentangeli's button men gets out of the car, and steps into a small Italian restaurant; he exits quickly, and nods affirmatively toward Pentangeli's Cadillac. The group of them step out quickly, men huddled around Pentangeli, and enter the restaurant.
PENTANGELI: Rosato, where's your brother?
ROSATO: Sitting right behind you. Pentangeli glances behind himself.
PENTANGELI: He don't want to talk?
ROSATO: We worked it all out beforehand.
PENTANGELI: Are we going to eat or what?
ROSATO: Sure, on me. I got Diner's Club.
PENTANGELI: ( sarcastically ) Forget it; I'm suddenly without an appetite. You're making big trouble, Carmine.
ROSATO: You weren't straight with us, Frankie, what else could we do?
PENTANGELI: We could have talked first, saved a lot of running around.
ROSATO: You wasn't listening, you didn't want to talk.
PENTANGELI: Don't I look like I'm listening?
ROSATO: We want Brooklyn one hundred percent. No more taxes to you. We want to be only loosely connected with your family sort of a under-family all of our own. Then we can act on all internal matters without talking. Also we want you to inform Michael Corleone that we can deal directly with him.
PENTANGELI: I'm a little hungry, maybe I'll order something. Joe. Get me some bracciole or something. And pay cash. And in return for these concessions, what do you do for me?
ROSATO: We will release the hostages, number one. Number two, we're here for you to count on when you need us. We're independent, but we're here if you need us. In general, we'll cooperate with you and your businesses, and you in turn will cooperate with us. Pari persu.
PENTANGELI: Pari Persu; what the fuck is Pari My lawyer went over this beforehand.
ROSATO: My lawyer went over this beforehand.
PENTANGELI: What assurances do I have that there will be no more kidnapping, no more hits?
ROSATO: The same assurance we got from you.
PENTANGELI: What if I say shove it?
ROSATO: Then Carmine Fucillo and Tony Blue DeRosa will need to be fitted for You want a war?
PENTANGELI: You want a war?
ROSATO: We got no choice.
PENTANGELI: You know if there's a way I'll go to the commission and the commission will side with me. That puts me and the other New York families against you.
ROSATO: We got friends in the commission.
PENTANGELI: ( getting angry ) I'm talking about Italians!
ROSATO: What about Michael Corleone?
PENTANGELI: He supports me.
ROSATO: Maybe, yes. maybe no. One of Pentangeli's men approaches with a plate of Italian Pentangeli stands up, angered by this remark of Rosato's; he pushes the dish of food out of the surprised Bodyguard's You drove old Pete Clemenza to his grave, Carmine; you and your brother. Turning on him; trouble in his territories you and your demands. I hold you responsible, just as though you shot him in the head. And I ain't gonna let that go for long! Pentangeli walks out of the restaurant; there's a little tension between the bodyguards of the two factions.
PENTANGELI: You drove old Pete Clemenza to his grave, Carmine; you and your brother. Turning on him; trouble in his territories you and your demands. I hold you responsible, just as though you shot him in the head. And I ain't gonna let that go for long! Pentangeli walks out of the restaurant; there's a little tension between the bodyguards of the two factions.
PENTANGELI: Nobody I hate calls me Five-Angels to my face! He slams the door.
PENTANGELI: What's up? Pentangeli glances over to the front door foyer.
PENTANGELI'S VIEW: The strange and silent Bussetta, the man who now always travels with Michael.
PENTANGELI: ( Sicilian ) What's this?
WIFE: Michael Corleone.
PENTANGELI: One Michael Corleone.Dove?
WIFE: ( Sicilian ) He's in your study. He knows it is very very serious for Michael to be here in his home. He automatically moves into his study.
PENTANGELI: Don Corleone, I wish you let me know you was coming. We could have prepared something for you.
MICHAEL: I didn't want you to know I was coming. You heard what happened in my home?
PENTANGELI: Michael, yes, we was all relieved.
MICHAEL: ( furious ) In my home! In the same room where my wife was sleeping; where my children come in their pajamas, and play with their toys. He's terrified Pentangeli with his anger; then, just as suddenly, he talks quietly, calmly.
MICHAEL: I want you to help me take my Michael, anything. What is it I can do for you?
PENTANGELI: Michael, anything. What is it I can do for you?
MICHAEL: I want you to settle these troubles with the Rosato Brothers.
PENTANGELI: I was just going to contact you, Michael; we just had a 'sit-down' - in fact, I just come from there.
MICHAEL: I want you to settle on their terms.
PENTANGELI: Mike, I don't understand. Don't ask me to do that.
MICHAEL: Trust me; do as I ask.
PENTANGELI: It would be the beginning of the end for my family. How can I keep all my other territories in like if I let two wise-guys stand up and demand this and that, and then give it to them?
MICHAEL: Frankie.do you respect me? Do I have your loyalty?
PENTANGELI: Always. But sometimes I don't understand. I know I'll never have your kind of brains, in big deals. But Mike, this is a street thing. And Hyman Roth in Miami is behind the Rosato Brothers.
MICHAEL: I know.
PENTANGELI: Then why do you want me to lay down to them?
MICHAEL: ( coldly, but convincing ) Frankie, Roth tried to have me killed. I'm sure it was him, but I don't know yet why.
PENTANGELI: Jesus Christ, Michael, then let's hit 'em now, while we still got the This was my father's old study. When I was a kid, we had to be quiet when we played near here. When I was older, I learned many things from him here. I was happy that this house never went to strangers; first Clemenza took it over, and then you. My father taught me, in this room, never to act until you know everything that's behind things. Never. If Hyman Roth sees that I interceded with you in the Rosato Brothers' favor, he'll think his relationship with me is still sound. I'm going somewhere to meet him tomorrow. We have friends in some very important business that we're making. Do this for me; you make the peace with the Rosato Brothers on their terms. Let the word out that I forced you; you're not happy wit hit, but acquiesced, just because of me. It will get back to Hyman Roth. Do this, Frankie. You can trust me.
MICHAEL: This was my father's old study. When I was a kid, we had to be quiet when we played near here. When I was older, I learned many things from him here. I was happy that this house never went to strangers; first Clemenza took it over, and then you. My father taught me, in this room, never to act until you know everything that's behind things. Never. If Hyman Roth sees that I interceded with you in the Rosato Brothers' favor, he'll think his relationship with me is still sound. I'm going somewhere to meet him tomorrow. We have friends in some very important business that we're making. Do this for me; you make the peace with the Rosato Brothers on their terms. Let the word out that I forced you; you're not happy wit hit, but acquiesced, just because of me. It will get back to Hyman Roth. Do this, Frankie. You can trust me.
PENTANGELI: Sure, Mike. I'll go along.
MICHAEL: They embrace; Michael kisses him. He looks at the young Don, thoughtfully.
NERI: Fifteen percent skim?
HAGEN: Twenty-five this time. The accountant stops, and looks up to Neri.
NERI: It might show.
HAGEN: Mike wants it. Neri nods, and the accountant continues. Neri opens a door, allowing a sandy-haired man, a COURIER, into the room. The cream is placed into his pouch personally by Neri.
NERI: We've never sent this much with one Your plans are a little different this time. You skip Miami, and go straight to Geneva. It's to be deposited to this number. And it's got to be there by Monday morning, no slip-up.
HAGEN: ( to the courier ) Your plans are a little different this time. You skip Miami, and go straight to Geneva. It's to be deposited to this number. ( handing him a small envelope ) And it's got to be there by Monday morning, no slip-up.
COURIER: I think I was 'picked-up' last trip. That hour layover I had at Kennedy. I went over and bought a paper. Neri has finished putting the 'creamed' money into the pouch.
NERI: Those were our people.
COURIER: Okay, just thought you should know. He is just about to close and lock the pouch, when Hagen gestures that he should wait, and adds more stacks of carefully packaged bills into the pouch. Then Neri locks it, and handcuffs it to the courier's arm, looking inquiringly at Hagen.
HAGEN: Let them count. The courier is shown out through a private door, and then the first door is opened. Two accountants come in with the guards, and the trays are opened, and the counting process is begun all over again, this time with the State Tally INT. TROPICANA CORRIDOR - MOVING VIEW - DAY The courier continues on his way; followed by Hagen and Neri.
NERI: What's up?
HAGEN: No questions.
NERI: I got to ask questions, Tom, there's three million dollars cash in that pouch; Mike is gone and I have no word from him.
HAGEN: Al, as far as you're concerned, I'm the Don.
NERI: How do I know you haven't gone into business for yourself? This hurts Tom; but he is a reasonable man, and he knows he owes Neri some explanation.
HAGEN: You've been through a lot with us so I'm going to give you the truth. Mike knows it was someone within the compound that set him up for that hit. So nobody is to know where he is, not you, not Rocco, not even his brother Fredo. Sorry, Al, I know how you feel about Mike.but he still remembers Tessio.
THERESA: Just a little.
HAGEN: Just a little.
THERESA: I've invited Mama, Sandra and the kids for barbecue.
HAGEN: What about Kay?
THERESA: I couldn't find her. She's been so broody, sticks to herself.
HAGEN: Let me try Kay. He crosses the lawn, to the house on the beach where Michael and his family live. Is about to knock on the door:
HAGEN'S SON: Hey, Pop, heads up! The football is flying in his direction; he catches it and throws it back. Then he cracks the door open, and peeks in.
HAGEN: He steps in, the beautiful summer living room is neat, but He moves through the house more quickly; into the dining and recreation room areas. A cat jumps off a pile of cushions and runs across the room.
HAGEN: Anyone hungry? He moves through the house more quickly; into the dining and recreation room areas. A cat jumps off a pile of cushions and runs across the room.
HAGEN: SANDRA ( O.S. ) She's gone, Tom. Sandra has followed him into Michael's house.
HAGEN: What do you mean gone?
SANDRA: The Barretts from Rubicon Bay came by in a new speedboat. Rocco tried to say she wasn't in, but Kay spotted them and asked if they would take her and the kids for a ride. That was three hours ago.
HAGEN: ( furious ) Why didn't someone tell me!
SANDRA: I wanted to tell you alone; your wife doesn't know what's going on. Hagen rushes out of the house.
HAGEN'S SON: Hey, Dad! This time he ignores the thrown ball, and moves directly to Rocco, who is by some men near the boathouse.
HAGEN: I know. I went down to the Barrett house. But she's gone. They drove her and the kids to North Tahoe Goddamn it, where were you?
ROCCO: I know. I went down to the Barrett house. But she's gone. They drove her and the kids to North Tahoe Goddamn it, where were you?
HAGEN: Goddamn it, where were you?
ROCCO: I was in my house. Willy tried, but it would have taken some strong-arm to stop her, and he figured you wouldn't want that.
HAGEN: ( to one of the men ) Get me a Scotch and water. The man hurries behind the bar.
ROCCO: She took a flight to San Francisco. We figure she's going to connect to New Hampshire; her parents' place.
HAGEN: ( almost to himself ) I can't let him down. He swallows the drink down in several gulps. And then looks up to his men watching him. He's embarrassed to have shown such weakness.
HAGEN: All right, let me think a minute. Rocco clears the men out.
ROCCO: Me too, Tom?
HAGEN: Yeah, give me a minute. Rocco gone, Hagen moves behind the enormous bar, and pours himself a giant drink. He drinks that, and calms himself.
HAGEN: Oh Christ, Pop. It was so good when you were alive. I felt I could handle anything.
CAPTAIN: Habana, Habana.
MICHAEL'S POV: Crowded streets, occasional roving bands playing for the tourists; there is much evidence of tourism: Americans walking through the streets with cameras. Occasionally, we see a Cuban with a row of numbers attached to his hat, carrying a big sheet of the daily lottery numbers. From all of these street impressions, the city is booming with activity, but there is also much evidence of whores and pimps and little children begging in the streets.
MED. VIEW: The big American car stops at an intersection. Bussetta is sitting in the forward passenger side; while Michael is in the back. He hears tapping on the window; he turns and sees four Cuban boys tapping on his window and extending their hands, and rubbing their stomachs as though they were hungry. The Cuban driver rolls down his window and shouts them away in Spanish.
SAM ROTH: Hiya, Mr. Corleone, I'm Sam Roth. Welcome to the Capri; my brother's upstairs. You wanta take a rest before you see him, or can I get you something, anything at all?
MICHAEL: No, I'm fine. He leads Michael into the main casino.
SAM ROTH: This is it! We think it makes Vegas look like the corner crap game.
MICHAEL: Very impressive.
SAM ROTH: Jake, Jake, come over here. Mike, I want you to meet Jake Cohen; he manages the casino for us.
COHEN: ( appreciating Michael's status ) Mr. Corleone. Sam turns to Bussetta and extends his glad-hand.
SAM ROTH: Pleasure to meet you, I'm sure. He gets no response whatsoever from Bussetta.
LEON: ( Spanish ) Most respected gentlemen, allow me to welcome you to the City of Havana, the Republic of Cuba on behalf of His Excellency, Fulgencio THE VIEW BEGINS TO MOVE along the various men gathered for this meeting.
LEON: The President would like to take this opportunity to thank U T&T for their lovely gift: a solid gold telephone! He thought all you gentlemen would care to take a look at it. He hands the heavy phone set to one of his aides, and it is passed in turn to each of the men in attendance.
CORNGOLD: Your Excellency, perhaps you could discuss the status of rebel activity and how this may affect our MED. CLOSE VIEW ON MICHAEL He receives the telephone, and glances at it before passing it on to Hyman Roth.
LEON: ( continuing ) We began a highly successful offensive against them in March, and activities within the city itself are at a minimum. I can assure you we'll tolerate no guerrillas in the casinos or swimming pools! General subdued laughter.
DRIVER: He says it will just be a short time and they'll let us through. Michael looks out the window.
MICHAEL'S VIEW: The old building has been totally surrounded by police and military vehicles. Right at this moment, they are waiting lazily, but soldiers are there with automatic weapons ready. There is a momentary commotion inside the building, and the men brace up. A Captain of the Army detachment says something in Spanish over a megaphone; and his men put their weapons at the ready, as other policemen lead a group of civilians out of the building with their hands up. They are moved over to some military truck, where they are frisked before being loaded. All of a sudden, one of the civilian rebels breaks loose, and rushes toward the command vehicle. He hurls himself into the vehicle, as two police try to pull him out. A second later, and there is an explosion; the man obviously having hidden a grenade on his body, sacrificing his own life to take the life of the Captain. There is a commotion, but the military quickly quell it.
MED. VIEW: as they lead and escort the Mercury out of the area.
MAN: Cuba Libres.
MICHAEL: I was told the Cubans now call this drink: "La Mentira."
ROTH: I still don't speak Spanish, Michael.
MICHAEL: It means. "The Lie." A moment's hesitation, then a few of the men laugh. Now two Cubans in white carry a table which has a lovely small cake on it.
SAM ROTH: The cake is here. They all raise their glasses to the old man.
EVERYONE: ( ad lib ) Happy Birthday! Roth glances at the cake and its inscription, is pleased.
ROTH: I hope my age is correct: I am always accurate about my age. Some laugh. He nods, and they begin to cut it, put a piece on plates, and carry them to the different men.
ROTH: Everything we've learned in Vegas is true here; but we can go further. The bigger, the swankier, the plusher the store, the more a sense of legitimacy, and the bigger business we do. A smaller piece. What we've proposed to the Cuban Government is that it put up half the cash on a dollar for dollar basis. Thank you. We can find people in the United States who will put up our share for a small piece of the action, yet we will retain control.
ROTH: A hundred million dollars. But only if this Government relaxes its restrictions on importing building materials; we'll need some new laws, too, but that will be no What are import duties now?
ANOTHER MAN: What are import duties now?
ROTH: As much as seventy percent. Also, I'm working out an arrangement with the Minister of Labor so that all our pit bosses, stick-men and Dealers, can be considered specialized technicians eligible for two year visas. As of now they're only allowed in Cuba for six months at a time. In short, we're in a full partnership with the Cuban Government.
ROTH: ( continuing ) Here are applications from Friends all over the States. I understand Santo Virgilio in Tampa is trying to make his own deal. Well, the Cuban Government will brush him off. The Lakeville Road Boys are going to take over the Nacionale here. I'm planning a new hotel casino to be known as Riviera. The new Capri will go to the Corleone Family.
MED. VIEW: The cake is sliced and carried to each of the men.
ROTH: Then there's the Sevilla Biltmore; the Havana Hilton, which is going to cost twenty-four million Cuban banks will put up half, the Teamsters will bankroll the rest. Generally, there will be friends for all our friends including the Lieutenant Governor of Nevada; Eddie Levine of Newport will bring in the Pennino Brothers, Dino and Eddie; they'll handle actual casino And seeing that all of his friends have been served, Roth raises his fork.
ROTH: I saw an interesting thing today. A man was being arrested by the Military Police; probably an urban guerrilla. Rather than be taken alive, he exploded a grenade hidden in his jacket, taking the command vehicle with him. The various men look up as Michael eats his cake, wondering what the point of it is.
MICHAEL: I saw an interesting thing today. A man was being arrested by the Military Police; probably an urban guerrilla. Rather than be taken alive, he exploded a grenade hidden in his jacket, taking the command vehicle with him. The various men look up as Michael eats his cake, wondering what the point of it is.
MICHAEL: It occurred to me: the police are paid to fight, and the Rebels are So, that occurred to me.
SAM ROTH: So, that occurred to me.
MICHAEL: So, that occurred to me.
ROTH: This country has had rebels for the last fifty years; it's part of their blood. Believe me, I know. I've been coming here since the twenties; we were running molasses out of Havana when you were a baby. To trucks owned by your father. We'll talk when we're alone. And he returns his attention to the men who are gathered with him on his birthday.
ROTH: You have to be careful what you say in front of the others. they frighten easy. It's always been that way, most men frighten easy.
MICHAEL: We're making a big investment in Cuba. That's my only concern.
ROTH: My concern is that the three million never arrived at Batista's numbered account in Switzerland. He thinks it's because you have second thoughts about his ability to stop the rebels.
MICHAEL: The money was sent.
ROTH: Then you have to trace it. Michael, people here look at me as a reliable man. I can't afford not to be looked on as a reliable man. But you know all that; there's nothing you can learn from me. You shouldn't have to put up with a sick old man as a partner.
MICHAEL: I wouldn't consider anyone else.
ROTH: Except the President of the United He laughs slyly, as though this is some private joke between them. Then his laughter becomes a cough, which he painfully stifles with a handkerchief.
ROTH: If only I could live to see it, kid; to be there with you. How beautifully we've done it, step by step. Here, protected, free to make our profits without the Justice Department, the FBI; ninety miles away in partnership with a friendly government. Ninety miles, just a small step, looking for a man who desperately wants to be President of the United States, and having the cash to make it possible.
MICHAEL: You'll be there to see it; you'll be there.
OPERATOR: We have your call to Tahoe, Nevada, Thank you. Tom? Tom, is that you?
MICHAEL: Thank you. Tom? Tom, is that you?
KAY: I'm not surprised to see you, Tom.
KAY: He's not like a little boy. he doesn't talk to me; he doesn't want to play; he doesn't like other children, he doesn't like toys. It's as though he's waiting for the time he can take his Father's place. You know what he told me when he was four years old. He said he had killed his Grandfather.
KAY: . He said he had shot his Grandfather with a gun, and then he died in the garden. And he asked me. he asked me, Tom, if that meant now his father would shoot him out of. revenge. How does a four year old boy learn the word. 'revenge'?
HAGEN: Kay. Kay.
KAY: What kind of a family is this. are we human beings? He knows his Father killed his Uncle Carlo. He heard Connie.
HAGEN: You don't know that's true. But Kay, just for the sake of an argument, let's assume it is, I'm not saying it is, remember, but. What if I gave you what might be some justification for what he did. or rather some possible justification for what he possibly That's the first time I've seen the lawyer side of you, Tom. It's not your best side.
KAY: That's the first time I've seen the lawyer side of you, Tom. It's not your best side.
HAGEN: Okay, just hear me out. What if Carlo had been paid to help get Sonny killed? What if his beating of Connie that time was a deliberate plot to get Sonny out into the open? Then what? And what if the Don, a great man, couldn't bring himself to do what he had to do, avenge his son's death by killing his daughter's husband? What if that, finally, was too much for him, and he made Michael his successor, knowing that Michael would take that load off his shoulders, would take that guilt?
KAY: He's not the same as when I met him.
HAGEN: If he were, he'd be dead by now. You'd be a widow. You'd have no What the hell does that mean? Come on, Tom, speak out straight once in your life. I know Michael can't, but you're not Sicilian, you can tell a woman the truth; you can treat her like an equal, a fellow human being. There is a long silence. Then Hagen shakes his head; he can tell her no more.
KAY: What the hell does that mean? Come on, Tom, speak out straight once in your life. I know Michael can't, but you're not Sicilian, you can tell a woman the truth; you can treat her like an equal, a fellow human being. There is a long silence. Then Hagen shakes his head; he can tell her no more.
HAGEN: If you told Michael what I've told you today, I'm a dead man.
KAY: When is it finally over? I want it to be over before my baby is born.
HAGEN: I don't know. I hope soon; but it's not over yet, and that's why you and the kids have to come back to me. He looks at her; it's clear that he has been entrusted with her safety and her children's. He is a kind, good man, and seems very nervous and VIEW ON THE WINDOW Little Anthony is pressing his face against the glass pane, as though he senses the adults are discussing something of importance to him.
LOUDSPEAKER: Mr. Corleone; Mr. Freddie Corleone, telephone please.
PIT BOSS: Not here.
LOUDSPEAKER: Telephone for Mr. Corleone.
NERI: He's backstage.
FREDO: C'mon, you got fifteen minutes before the finale! I want to show you a trick with feathers.
STAGEHAND: Phone for you.
FREDO: Don't go away; wait a minute. He takes the phone; we can catch a VIEW of the show going on from the wings.
FREDO: ( on the phone ) Yeah. Okay. Who? Mikey? But. Si. si, caposco. ( in Sicilian ) Sure. how much? I understand. Jesus, three million. I won't let you down. Sure. He hangs up thoughtfully.
FREDO: Yeah. some other time.
PENTANGELI: Wait in the car. He walks up the street, to the bar, where he is greeted by the tall, handsome Carmine Rosato. They shake hands. Pentangeli looks in his hand.
CLOSE VIEW: Rosato has put a crisp one hundred dollar bill in his hand, folded sharply in two.
PENTANGELI: What's this?
ROSATO: That's a lucky C note for our new He puts his arm around Pentangeli, and they walk into the bar.
ROSATO: We were all real happy about your decision, Frankie; you're not goin' to regret it. He holds up the glass.
PENTANGELI: I don't like the C-note. I take it like an insult. Suddenly, a garrote is thrown around Pentangeli's throat; and he is forcefully yanked back into the shadows, all the way into a wooden telephone booth.
CLOSE VIEW: The folded hundred dollar bill resting on the bar.
ROSATO: Shit, your friend the cop! Suddenly, the side door opens, and a shaft of sunlight cuts through the darkness.
COP: Everything all right in there, Ritchie? The door was open.
RITCHIE: Just cleaning up. You okay?
COP: Is that something on the floor?
ROSATO: Take him!
VOICE: Not here; not a cop, not here! Two figures race through the shadows and race through the Stutz! Watch out, Stutz!
RITCHIE: Not here; not a cop, not here! Two figures race through the shadows and race through the Stutz! Watch out, Stutz!
COP: ( shouting to his partner, in uniform ) Stutz! Watch out, Stutz!
MED. CLOSE: The patrolmen is grazed across the face; trying to stop the flow of blood with his hand.
NEW VIEW: The three assailants jump into the car and drive off.
PENTANGELI: The bastard. The dirty bastard, he gave me a C-note. He gave me a C- He sees the patrolman leaning over him.
SERGEANT: Frankie Pentangeli murder attempt. Patrolman Stutz shot. Sahara Lounge - Utica Avenue and Claredon Road. White Cadillac three or four men took off from scene. Need ambulance; Stutz is bad. Taking Pentangeli into custody.
ROTH: Make it fast; I don't want to chance him being seen.
COURIER: ( frightened ) What about the arrangements? How can I be sure about the arrangements?
OLA: Relax. You're under our protection; the Corleone family will never find Ola leads the Courier to the adjoining room where two smartly dressed Military ( Cuban ) Police are standing, and a civilian. The Courier sees them, looks back to Ola. One of the police steps forward, placing the Courier under arrest; handcuffing him.
COURIER: Hey, what's this? The other takes the packet of money, and hands it to the civilian, who places it in the briefcase he carries. The other officer kneels down and fastens leg manacles.
COURIER: The arrangements. YOU BASTARDS! The Captain strikes him expertly across the side of his head with his pistol. Ola closes the door on this scene.
FREDO: Mikey. How are you? He glances up at Bussetta, who doesn't say a word. Fredo extends his hand.
FREDO: Hiya, Freddie Corleone.
MICHAEL: Mio fratello. Then Bussetta offers his hand back to Fredo.
FREDO: ( taking off his jacket ) What a trip, Jesus Christ, the whole time I'm thinking what if someone knew what I got in here. He undoes the combination of the briefcase starts taking out cash. Then he stops, remembering that there's a stranger in the room.
FREDO: Oh, 'scuse me.
MICHAEL: It's all right. He stays with me all the time.
FREDO: Oh. Mikey, what's up? I'm totally in the dark.
MICHAEL: We're making an investment in Havana.
FREDO: Great, Havana's great. Lots of activity in Havana! Anybody I know here. Five-Angels? Anybody?
MICHAEL: Johnny Ola. Hyman Roth.
FREDO: I never met them.
MICHAEL: Pentangeli's dead. He was ambushed by the Rosato Brothers. Didn't you know that?
FREDO: No. No, I didn't. Who tells me anything? I been kept in the dark so long, I'm getting used to it.
MICHAEL: I want you to help me, Fredo.
FREDO: That's what I'm here for.
MICHAEL: Tonight I want to relax with you. The Senator from Nevada is here with some people from Washington. I want to show them a good time in Count on me; that's my specialty.
FREDO: Count on me; that's my specialty.
MICHAEL: I'd like to come along. There's been a lot of strain, and I've been cooped up in this room for three Me and you, great! Gimme an hour to wash my face and do my research and we'll have these Washington suckers right where you want 'em. Poor Frankie Five-Angels. He always wanted to die in bed.with a broad.
FREDO: Me and you, great! Gimme an hour to wash my face and do my research and we'll have these Washington suckers right where you want 'em. Poor Frankie Five-Angels. He always wanted to die in bed.with a broad.
DOCTOR: ( Spanish ) You must not exert yourself; I will write out a prescription and come back tomorrow.
HOTEL MAN: He's going to write a prescription.
ROTH: I want my own doctor; fly him in from Miami. I don't trust a doctor who can't speak English. The doctor is shown out. Roth gestures to the hotel man, who also leaves. Then he looks to his wife.
ROTH: Honey, go down to the casino?
TERRI: If you feel better.
ROTH: I do. Play the Bingo game. They kiss, and she leaves. Also Bussetta and Ola remain.
ROTH: My sixth sense tells me you have a bag full of money in your hand. Ola locks the door; Michael nods, and opens the bag, spilling its contents on the card table.
MICHAEL: This doubles my investment.
ROTH: Still no word of your courier? We'll find him. But at least this will satisfy our friends here. You've been invited to the New Year reception at the Presidential Home. I understand your brother is here as well; I hope he'll come.
MICHAEL: Six million dollars in cash is a high price for a piece of a country in the middle of a revolution. Roth looks patiently at Michael, as though he were a child who hadn't minded the lesson that he had been taught over and over again.
ROTH: You're a careful kid, and that's good. But look. An international dispatch on the wire service. American journalism, not propaganda. The government troops have all but eliminated the rebels. All but their radio station.
MICHAEL: I've read it; I'm pleased that the government is doing so well. As a heavy investor, I'm pleased. How did the doctor find you?
ROTH: Terrible. I'd give twice this amount to take a piss without it Who had Frankie Pantangeli killed?
MICHAEL: Who had Frankie Pantangeli killed?
ROTH: ( taken a bit off-balance ) Why.the Rosato Brothers.
MICHAEL: I know that; but who gave the go Roth glances to Ola; he is not a fool; he realizes Michael has begun to suspect him.
MICHAEL: I know it wasn't me.so that leaves you.
ROTH: There was this kid that I grew up with; he was a couple years younger than me, and sort of looked up to me, you know. We did our first work together, worked our way out of the street. Things were good and we made the most of it. During prohibition, we ran molasses up to Canada and made a fortune; your father too. I guess as much as anyone, I loved him and trusted him. Later on he had an idea to make a city out of a desert stop-over for G.I.'s on the way to the West Coast. That kid's name was Moe Greene, and the city he invented was Las Vegas. This was a great man; a man with vision and guts; and there isn't even a plaque or a signpost or a statue of him in that town. Someone put a bullet through his eye; no one knows who gave the order. When I heard about it I wasn't angry. I knew Moe; I knew he was headstrong, and talking loud, and saying stupid things. So when he turned up dead, I let it go, and said to myself: this is the business we've chosen. I never asked, who gave the go ahead because it had nothing to do with business. He regards Michael silently a moment.
ROTH: ( continuing ) There's three million dollars on that table. I'm going to lie down, maybe take a nap. When I wake up, if it's still there, I'll know I have a partner. If it's gone, then I'll know I don't. The old man turns, and moves in his slippers, toward his INT. THE CORRIDOR - DAY Michael closes the door, and moves down the hallway. He is followed by Bussetta, who had waited in the corridor.
MICHAEL: ( Sicilian ) How sick do you think the old man is?
BUSSETTA: ( Sicilian ) He'll live longer than me.
MED. VIEW: At a large round table, located in an obvious VIP section of the high, tropically draped room with living ferns and other tropical planting with artificial stars. Michael rises, to be introduced by Fredo to some conservative looking Senatorial types, including Senator Pat Geary of Nevada. We notice Bussetta standing nearby.
FREDO: Does everyone know everyone, or nobody knows nobody. Here, my brother, Michael Corleone. well, you know Senator Geary. Geary warmly shakes Michael's hand.
SENATOR GEARY: Good to see you, Mike; I'm glad we can spend this time together.
FREDO: This is Senator Payton from Florida; Judge DeMalco from New York. Senator Ream. Mr. Questadt from California, he's a lawyer with the Price-Control Administration. And Fred Corngold of U T&T. They all make themselves comfortable. A waiter with a tray of drinks appears.
FREDO: Gentlemen. your pleasure? Cuba Libres, Pina Coladas, you name it.
SENATOR GEARY: I'll take a Yolanda. Later, later. All those girls look like they're on stilts! The various tropical drinks are distributed.
FREDO: Later, later. All those girls look like they're on stilts! The various tropical drinks are distributed.
SENATOR GEARY: To a night in Havana! They all join in.
FREDO: ( aside to Michael ) Jeeze, it's great you came along, Mike. You know, we've never spent a night out on the town together. I always thought you looked down on me for liking a good time.
MICHAEL: I never looked down on you, Fredo. You don't look down at a brother.
CORNGOLD: Our information is that Castro is dead. There are maybe a few hundred die-hards in the Sierra Muestra; but government troops are going to clean them out any day. Johnny Ola approaches Michael.
OLA: Mike, can I talk to you. Michael follows Ola toward the Baccarat table; a watchful Bussetta moves, a distance away, with them.
OLA: Listen, this Senator from Florida already has a hundred grand worth of markers on the table. We can see Senator Ream at the table, making thousand dollar bets on the Bank.
OLA: They asked him to sign paper to take down the markers; but he got mad; told them to wait until he was Let him gamble.
MICHAEL: Let him gamble.
OLA: Okay. You know he doesn't have that kind of money.
FREDO: Mike said let him gamble. Fredo puts his arm around his brother; he is high with the first attention Mike has ever given him, as though finally he is being taken seriously; as though his brother needs him.
FREDO: Mike, I got something special up my sleeve for these boys. You ever hear of "Superman?" And I don't mean the comic book.
MICHAEL: Wait'll you see!
FREDO: Wait'll you see!
FREDO: Mikey, why would they ever hit poor old Frankie Five-Angels? I loved that ole sonuvabitch. I remember when he was just a 'button,' when we were kids. We used to put bedsheets on our heads, you know, like we were ghosts. An' ole Frankie come peek into our room, we'd jump up, and he'd always pretend like he was really scared. You remember?
MICHAEL: It was hard to have him killed.
FREDO: You? What do you mean you, I It was hard to have him killed.
MICHAEL: It was hard to have him killed.
FREDO: You? What do you mean you, I It was Frankie tried to have me hit.
MICHAEL: It was Frankie tried to have me hit.
FREDO: No. I mean, are you sure?
MICHAEL: You know otherwise, Freddie?
FREDO: Me? NO, no, I don't know anything. Fellas! You're all falling asleep. We got to see Superman.
SENATOR REAM: ( pushing away from the palm outstretched little hands of the boys ) Goddamn beggers. Goddamn city of beggars and pimps and whores. And we bend over backwards to support them with the goddamn sugar quota.
FREDO: ( to Geary ) What's eating him?
SENATOR GEARY: He lost a quarter million dollars at the casino.
SENATOR REAM: .goddamn city of whores.
SENATOR GEARY: He gave them a bad check.
MED. VIEW: Fredo's party standing on the ramp, looking down at the spectacle. They're a little woozy from the drinks and late hour. Michael is with them, but now we sense he is using this time, with all exhausted and drunk, to come to some important conclusions.
QUESTADT: Why do we have to stand?
FREDO: Everyone stands. But it's worth it, watch!
FREDO: That's him; that's Superman! Some preliminary pornographic proceedings go on, as the priestesses lead the slave to the virgin tied to the post. The music is percussive and wild.
SENATOR GEARY: Ohmygod. I don't believe it.
QUESTADT: It's got to be fake.
FREDO: That's why they call him Superman. Johnny Ola told me about this; I didn't believe it. CLOSE on Michael turning away. Not because of the spectacle which he finds disgusting, but at what his brother is saying.
FREDO: ( continuing ) The old man Roth, would never come; but Johnny knows these places like the back of his hand.
RADIO: ( Spanish ) "This is Rebel Radio: Rebel troops of Column Four 'Jose Marti' took the town of Baire yesterday at 8:30 p.m. The enemy has retreated."
RADIO: ( Spanish ) . An important military action is developing along a 35-kilometer stretch of the Central Highway. Numerous enemy garrisons are left with two alternatives, surrender or One full block away, Bussetta rides in the front seat of the dark Mercury, driving slowly, giving Michael his privacy, but never letting him out of Bussetta's sight.
MICHAEL'S VIEW: Shopkeepers happily luring the tourists into their shops in broken English. Havana is prosperous.
RADIO: ( continuing ) . Victories in war depend on a minimum on weapons and to a maximum on morale.
RADIO: . War is not a simple question of rifles, bullets, guns and planes.
MICHAEL: How is your wife, Fredo.your You know her; drives me crazy, one minute she's a popsicle, the next she's all vinegar. Sometimes I think. I think - I should a married someone, like you did. To have kids, to have a family. Michael turns, distracted for a moment at something the singer has sung.
FREDO: ( eating ) You know her; drives me crazy, one minute she's a popsicle, the next she's all vinegar. Sometimes I think. I think - I should a married someone, like you did. To have kids, to have a family. Michael turns, distracted for a moment at something the singer has sung.
MICHAEL: "Yo soy un hombre sincero." I am a sincere man, From the land of the palms.
FREDO: What's that?
MICHAEL: The song. Are you sincere with me, Sincere. What are you talking about, of course I'm sincere with you, Mike.
FREDO: Sincere. What are you talking about, of course I'm sincere with you, Mike.
MICHAEL: Then I'm going to confide in you; trust you with something.
FREDO: ( Sicilian ) Mike, are you crazy, I'm your Tonight we've been invited to a reception at the Presidential Palace; to bring in the New Year. You and I will go in a special car that's being sent. They'll have cocktails. then dinner, and a reception with the President. When it's over, it will be suggested that you take Questadt and his friends from Washington to spend the night with some women. I'll go home alone in the car; and before I reach the hotel, I'll be The same man who tried in Nevada. Hyman Roth, not Pentangeli.
MICHAEL: Tonight we've been invited to a reception at the Presidential Palace; to bring in the New Year. You and I will go in a special car that's being sent. They'll have cocktails. then dinner, and a reception with the President. When it's over, it will be suggested that you take Questadt and his friends from Washington to spend the night with some women. I'll go home alone in the car; and before I reach the hotel, I'll be The same man who tried in Nevada. Hyman Roth, not Pentangeli.
FREDO: The same man who tried in Nevada. Hyman Roth, not Pentangeli.
MICHAEL: The same man who tried in Nevada. Hyman Roth, not Pentangeli.
FREDO: But, you told me yourself.
MICHAEL: It was never Pentangeli. I've always known that. It was Roth all along. He talks to me as a son; as his successor, but the old man thinks he'll live forever.
FREDO: What do you want me to do?
MICHAEL: To go tonight, with me, as though we know nothing. I've already made my move.
FREDO: What is it? Can I help?
MICHAEL: The old man will never bring in the New Year. Fredo realizes what he means; looks immediately to Bussetta, who had been sitting near the door and the musicians. He is INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - MOVING VIEW ON BUSSETTA - NIGHT The first time ever away from Michael, moving toward us quickly. He stops, knocks on the door of Roth's suite. Then quickly for a man his size, he moves without noise to the adjoining door, opens it with a key, and disappears A moment elapses on the empty corridor, and then a roused Johnny Ola, opens the first door. He steps out into the corridor, to see who had knocked. Confused, he is about to return inside, when Bussetta easily breaks his neck in two from behind.
NEW VIEW: Traffic stops, as an ambulance speeds its way to a hospital; SIREN going.
BUSSETTA'S VIEW: Terri, Mrs. Roth, is crying. A group of men lift Hyman Roth's frail body onto a stretcher.
QUESTADT: The embargo on arms shipments from the U.S. to your government, was just a necessary public relations move. Only last month, your air force received a major shipment of Michael glances at his watch; Fredo concentrates on this.
SENATOR GEARY: We believe in non-intervention. but the agreement stipulates that our forces may be withdrawn. but as you've seen, we have not withdrawn them.
CORNGOLD: And my guess is that President Eisenhower won't pull out while we have over three billion invested over here.
MICHAEL: Fredo. Where are you going?
FREDO: Nowhere, Mike. I wanted to get a refill. How about you?
NEW VIEW: A Cuban military detachment speeds along in the night, motorcyclists clear a path through the celebrants.
QUESTADT: What's kept Mr. Roth? Fredo looks up at Michael. In the back of the room, we notice the detachment of military moving quickly through the reception room on their way to the President's private quarters. Michael notices it as well.
HIS VIEW: A nurse sits in the room in attendance; Hyman Roth is asleep, his mouth wide open, breathing noisily.
MICHAEL: I've arranged for a plane; we're going to Miami in an hour. Try not to make a big thing of it. He kisses his brother once again.
MICHAEL: ( Sicilian ) I know it was you, Fredo. You've broken my heart. Slowly, understanding, Fredo backs away from his brother, taking the kiss another way. A little distance away, Major Leon notices an old woman, one of the President's maids, moving across the alcove, carrying her suitcases.
LEON: What a pity; she's crying. Must have been fired, and she's been with the President's family for twenty years.
MED. VIEW: A family surreptitiously leaves their home, carrying suitcases and belongings.
PRESIDENT: .Because of serious setbacks of our troops in Guantanamo and Santiago, we feel reluctantly, that we must leave the Capital at once. Myself and my family must bid you goodbye, and good fortune. We will go directly to Ciudad Trujillo. The crowd is stunned; already whispers are moving throughout the guests. The only one who is not completely taken off guard is Michael, who quietly steps back, and disappears from the room.
PRESIDENT: .My only regret is that there could not have been more warning. As my last official act as President, I hereby appoint a provisional government with Dr. Carlos M. Piedra, as its President. By now, there is only one thought among the guests: how can they get out, and with what.
MICHAEL: Come with me. It's your only way of getting out!
PILOT: No, this is a private plane. No, this plane is taken. Finally Michael's Mercury pulls up, and Michael approaches the Pilot.
MICHAEL: He isn't here.
PILOT: We've got to leave, they'll take this thing apart.
MICHAEL: All right. Go now. The Pilot lets Michael in, as the Cuban screams curses at them, and begins searching for another plane for his family.
VENDOR: No, no. It is my pleasure to make this a gift.
VITO: You are kind. If ever I can do something for you, in return, please come to me.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) What is it?
CARMELLA: ( Sicilian ) They step into the tiny parlor, where we see an older woman, waiting nervously.
CARMELLA: The Signora is a friend of mine. She has a favor to ask of you.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) Why do you come to me?
SIGNORA COLOMBO: ( Sicilian ) She told me to ask you. He seems surprised; looks to his wife.
CARMELLA: She is having some trouble. Her landlord has received complaints because of her dog. He told her to get rid of it, but her boy loved it, so they tried to hide it. When the landlord found out, he was so angry, he ordered her to leave. Even if she truly will let the dog He said he would have the police put us out.
SIGNORA COLOMBO: ( Sicilian ) He said he would have the police put us out.
VITO: ( thoughtfully ) I can give you some money to help you move, is that what you want?
SIGNORA COLOMBO: My friends are all here; how can I move to another neighborhood with strangers? I want you to speak to the landlord to let me stay. Vito nods to the frightened old woman.
VITO: It's done then. You won't have to move; I'll speak to him tomorrow Carmella breaks into a smile; which her husband des not The old woman starts to leave the room; but she is not You're sure he'll say yes, the I'm sure he's a good-hearted fellow. Once I explain how things are with you, I'm sure he'll take pity on your misfortunes. Don't let it trouble you any more. Guard your health, for the sake of your children.
SIGNORA COLOMBO: You're sure he'll say yes, the I'm sure he's a good-hearted fellow. Once I explain how things are with you, I'm sure he'll take pity on your misfortunes. Don't let it trouble you any more. Guard your health, for the sake of your children.
VITO: I'm sure he's a good-hearted fellow. Once I explain how things are with you, I'm sure he'll take pity on your misfortunes. Don't let it trouble you any more. Guard your health, for the sake of your children.
VITO: The friend of my wife, a poor widow with no man to protect her, tells me that for some reason she has been ordered to move from your building. She is in despair. She has no money, she has no friends except those that live here. Signor Roberto brusquely answers, and continues on his way.
ROBERTO: I have already rented the apartment to another family.
VITO: I told her I would speak to you, that you are a reasonable man who acted out of some misunderstanding. She has gotten rid of the animal that caused all the trouble, so why shouldn't she stay. As one Italian to another, I ask you the favor.
ROBERTO: I've already rented it; I cannot disappoint the new tenants. They're paying a higher rent.
VITO: How much more a month?
ROBERTO: ( we sense he is lying ) Five dollars more. Vito reaches into his pocket, and takes out a roll of bills.
VITO: Here is the six month's increase in advance. You needn't speak to her about it, she's a proud woman. See me again in another six months. But of course, you'll let her keep her dog.
ROBERTO: Like hell! And who the hell are you to give me orders. Watch your manners or you'll be on your Sicilian ass in the street there. Vito raises his hands in surprise; his voice is reasonable.
VITO: I'm asking you a favor, only that. One never knows when one might need a friend, isn't that true? Here, take this money as a sign of my good-will, and make your own decision. I won't quarrel with it. Do me this little favor, just take it and think carefully. Tomorrow morning if you want to give me the money back, by all means do so. If you want the woman out of your house, how can I stop you? It's your property, after all. If you don't want the dog in there, I can understand. I dislike dogs myself. Do me this service, eh? I won't forget it. Ask your friends in this neighborhood about me, they'll tell you I'm a man who believes in showing his gratitude. Without a word more, Vito leaves a hypnotized Roberto standing in front of the tenement, his hand clasping the EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET - DAY A thin young man, almost gawky, walks down the street in this Italian neighborhood, his name is HYMAN SUCHOWSKY. He carries his tools as he comes home from work. He is pursued and tormented by a couple of Italian youths, about his own age, eighteen.
ITALIAN BOY: Kid, where do you live?
ANOTHER: Where'd you get those nigger lips? He tries not to be intimidated; finally one of the boys, steps in front of him and stops him.
ITALIAN BOY: Say 'bread' in Italian.
ANOTHER: He dunno.
ITALIAN BOY: Go on; how do you say 'bread' in Italian? If you're from the neighborhood, you should know how to say 'bread' in Italian. An amused Peter Clemenza steps forward from a local coffee house, to preside over the fuss. He's a 'big' man in the neighborhood, and loves a fight.
CLEMENZA: What's up?
ITALIAN BOY: This kid lives around here, but he can't say bread in Italian.
CLEMENZA: That's 'cause he's Jew. Look at those pregnant lips! He giggles at his own joke.
ITALIAN BOY: Are you a Jewboy? The boy doesn't answer, tries to keep going.
ITALIAN BOY: Well, if you're not a Jew, say 'bread' in Italian. See, he can't. And with that, he rounds a blow squarely to the boy's face, sending him sprawling to the cement, his tools flying with a The other Italian immediately joins in with a few kicks to the boy's stomach. Hyman tries to fight back; grabs a hold of his tormentor's foot, and brings him down on the cement as well. For a moment, they are rolling around on the sidewalk, two against one, Hyman taking the worst of it.
CLEMENZA: Alright, alright, cut it out.
SECOND ITALIAN: What for? He killed Jesus Christ! Clemenza pulls him off, and kicks him in the ass.
CLEMENZA: I said cut it out! What's your name?
HYMAN: Hyman Suchowsky.
ITALIAN BOY: I don't believe it. In our neighborhood, with a name like that!
CLEMENZA: What are those tools? You work on Maybe I know how you can make a couple of extra bucks working as a The boy seems agreeable.
HYMAN: Maybe I know how you can make a couple of extra bucks working as a The boy seems agreeable.
CLEMENZA: Maybe I know how you can make a couple of extra bucks working as a The boy seems agreeable.
CLEMENZA: But you gotta know how to keep your mouth shut, and fer Chrissakes, get rid of that name. I'll call you Johnny Lips. Come on. He leads the boy down the street, whispering to him, on the Bread in Italian is pane. P-A-N-E, pane. Don't forget.
CLEMENZA: Bread in Italian is pane. P-A-N-E, pane. Don't forget.
GENCO: ( Sicilian ) The 'patrone' is here.
VITO: Roberto. Who owns the 'rat-holes.' Vito nods that he will see him; and soon Roberto enters, on tiptoe, his hat in his hand, and in a apologetic voice.
GENCO: Roberto. Who owns the 'rat-holes.' Vito nods that he will see him; and soon Roberto enters, on tiptoe, his hat in his hand, and in a apologetic voice.
ROBERTO: Excuse me, I hope I am not a disturbance, Don Corleone.
VITO: What a terrible misunderstanding. Of course, Signora Colombo can stay in the flat. Who were those miserable tenants to complain about noise from a poor animal.when they pay such low rent. Then abruptly, he puts the roll of money on Vito's table, and steps back a respectful distance.
ROBERTO: What a terrible misunderstanding. Of course, Signora Colombo can stay in the flat. Who were those miserable tenants to complain about noise from a poor animal.when they pay such low rent. Then abruptly, he puts the roll of money on Vito's table, and steps back a respectful distance.
ROBERTO: Your good heart in helping the poor widow has shamed me, and I want to show that I, too, have some Christian charity. Her rent will remain what it was.
VITO: What was that?
ROBERTO: In fact, reduced, bu five dollars! Vito embraces him warmly.
VITO: I accept your generosity.
ROBERTO: I won't keep you another minute. He quickly takes his leave, bowing several times, and then makes it back to the safety of the warehouse; he sighs, deflates his lungs, and mops his brow; his bones have turned too jelly with fear at his narrow escape. He all but runs out of the warehouse. Genco laughs as he watches.
GENCO: We won't see him for weeks! He'll stay in bed in the Bronx! Clemenza has been waiting with his new mechanic. We notice the subtle difference in the way he treats Vito. He is no longer a junior apprentice in their petty crimes; but an imposing leader.
CLEMENZA: This kid is good with cars; he kiijed at the truck, and says he can keep it going. Vito looks over the lanky young man.
CLEMENZA: What's your name?
HYMAN: Suchowsky. Hyman Suchowsky.
CLEMENZA: He's gonna dump that; I call him Johnny Lips.
VITO: Who is the greatest man you can think of?
CLEMENZA: Go on, answer him when he talks to you. Tell him: Columbus, Marconi. Arnold Rothstein.
HYMAN: Arnold Rothstein.
VITO: Then take that as your name: Hyman Genco is out in the alley; he calls out with glee.
GENCO: Vitone! Look at this! Vito moves out to the smiling Genco; Clemenza and the newly christened Hyman Rothstein follow a distance behind.
GENCO: ( enthusiastically ) God bless America! We're in The young men watch as the sign is hoisted into place. OUR VIEW goes from one to the other: Clemenza, Genco, Vito and Hyman Rothstein.
CICCI: That's right.
CICCI: The Corleone Family, Senator. We called it, "The Family."
CICCI: At first, like everybody, I was a VIEW ON SENATOR KANE A thin, angular Baptist with a Mid-Western accent.
SENATOR KANE: What is that exactly?
CICCI: A button. You know, Senator.
SENATOR KANE: No, I don't know, explain that When the boss says push the button on a guy, I push the button, see, The Senators treat Cicci with a surface courtesy, as if he were a curious kind of animal, not really human. Cicci reacts to this by being even more brutally forthright than he has to be, to show his contempt for what he considers a The VIEW ALTERS from Senator Kane to the Committee's attorney, Mr. Questadt.
CICCI: When the boss says push the button on a guy, I push the button, see, The Senators treat Cicci with a surface courtesy, as if he were a curious kind of animal, not really human. Cicci reacts to this by being even more brutally forthright than he has to be, to show his contempt for what he considers a The VIEW ALTERS from Senator Kane to the Committee's attorney, Mr. Questadt.
QUESTADT: You mean you killed people at the behest of your superiors?
CICCI: That's right, counsellor.
QUESTADT: And the head of your family was Michael Corleone.
CICCI: Yeah, counsellor, Michael Corleone.
SENATOR KANE: Did you ever get such an order directly from Michael Corleone?
CICCI: No, Senator, I never talked to him.
SENATOR SAVOY: ( very autocratic, deep South, gentlemanly man ) There was always a buffer, someone in between you who gave you orders.
CICCI: Yeah, a buffer, the Family had a lot of buffers.
MICHAEL: Do you think they have somebody to back up Cicci?
HAGEN: No. But if they do have somebody, you'll do three years for perjury if you give them so much as a wrong middle name. Michael smiles to him, but it's a cold, deadly smile.
HAGEN: Michael, take the Fifth all the way, that way you can't get into EXT. PRIVATE BALCONY OF CORLEONE APARTMENT AT TROPICANA - DAY A Corleone bodyguard waits outside on the balcony overlooking the pool area. Through the translucent draperies, we see a grouping of me.
MICHAEL: Al, get me a wet towel. Does Kay know I'm back? Hagen nods.
MICHAEL: Did the boy get something from me for Christmas?
HAGEN: I took care of it.
MICHAEL: What was it, so I'll know.
HAGEN: A little care he can ride in with an electric motor. Neri comes around with a wet face towel, which Michael uses to cool his eyes. He puts the used towel down on the table.
MICHAEL: Fellas, can you wait outside a They know what he means and leave the apartment, going out to the balcony where we can see them but they cannot hear. Only Hagen remains.
MICHAEL: Where's my brother?
HAGEN: Roth got out on a private boat. He's in a hospital in Miami. Had a stroke but he's recovered okay. Bussetta's dead.
MICHAEL: I asked about Fredo?
HAGEN: The new government arrested him, held him for a couple of days with a lot of the other casino people, including Roth's brother, Sam. The American Embassy arranged flights for citizens; I'm not sure, but I think he's somewhere in New York.
MICHAEL: I want you to reach Fredo. I know he's scared, but have one of our people reach him. Assure him that there will be no reprisals. Tell him that I know Roth misled him.
HAGEN: My information is that Fredo thought it was a kidnapping. Roth assured him nothing would happen to They can come in now.
MICHAEL: ( indicating Rocco and Neri on the balcony ) They can come in now.
HAGEN: Wait. there's something else.
MICHAEL: Hagen pauses; doesn't know how to begin.
MICHAEL: ( impatiently ) Go on, tell me.
HAGEN: Kay had a miscarriage; she lost the After a moment:
MICHAEL: Was it a boy or a girl?
HAGEN: Mike, at three and a half.
MICHAEL: What is it, can't you give me straight answers anymore!
HAGEN: It was a boy.
MICHAEL: And Kay.she's all right?
HAGEN: She took the Senate Investigation Does she blame it on me? The baby?
MICHAEL: Does she blame it on me? The baby?
HAGEN: I don't know.
MOVING VIEW: approaching the great stone gates; closed. The bodyguards are not readily visible, but they are there. The iron gates are opened, and one of the men makes a simple nod of respect, as the car pulls in.
NEW VIEW: Inside the estate, the private roads have been freshly plowed, and occasionally a worker will pause to watch the car as it passes. The Grandchildren are in school now, and so the estate is especially quiet. Although there are signs that children live here; a bicycle, a sled, a swing and gymnastic set, wet and with a rim of snow still on it.
NEW VIEW: The front door opens, and Michael enters his own home. It is very quiet, no one is at home to greet him. He can see the evidence of his family; things his wife and his children have been using, and left on a sofa or a table. He moves toward his and Kay's bedroom, where we can HEAR the SOUND of a sewing machine running. Quietly he opens the door.
MICHAEL'S VIEW: into the bedroom. Kay is sitting by the window, lit by the cold afternoon light, at work with her sewing machine. She hasn't noticed that he's in the room yet, and goes on with her work.
MICHAEL: Mom. Mom. She opens her eyes, which are red and small with age.
MICHAEL: ( Sicilian ) It's Michael. How are you, Mom?
MAMA: ( Sicilian ) I'm alright. Will you stay home for awhile?
MICHAEL: ( Sicilian ) There are still things I have to do.
MAMA: ( Sicilian ) Well, we can all have a nice dinner together tonight. How are your eyes?
MICHAEL: Alright. They bother me once in Tell me, when Pop had troubles. did he ever think, even to himself, that he had gone the wrong way; that maybe by trying to be strong and trying to protect his family, that he could. that he could. lose it instead?
MAMA: ( Sicilian ) You talk about the baby. She can have another baby.
MICHAEL: ( Sicilian ) No, I meant lose his family.
MAMA: ( as best she ever understood it ) Your family? How can you ever lose your family?
MICHAEL: ( almost to himself ) But times are different.
VIEW ALTERS: and we realize that it is young Vito looking at the MAN. We remember that the man is MOSCA, one of three men, who almost twenty years before had hunted down Vito when he was a boy. With lightning speed, Vito slashes through the mosquito netting with a knife. And with the movement precise as a butcher's he disembowls this man.
MED. VIEW: on an almost decrepit DON FRANCESCO. He must be in his early nineties, sitting as powerful and as impressive as ever, in his throne-like chair from which he manages the power as the Mafia Chieftan of this village. Young Don Tomasino is speaking. We notice in a little distance in the rear, there are some younger shepherds with shotguns thrown over their shoulders.
TOMASINO: ( Sicilian ) Don Francesco, if you will honor me, by allowing me to introduce my associate in America, in New York. His name is Vito Corleone. The old man and his eyes glance up at a notion of a man who has taken the name of this town as his name.
TOMASINO: We will supply him with olive oil exclusively in the town of Corleone. His company is called the "Genco Olive Oil Company." Here we have brought you an indication of how he will sell the product. Tomasino respectfully puts a can of olive oil where the old man can look at it. The old man nods, accepting the notion of this business.
TOMASINO: ( Sicilian ) We have come to ask your blessing and permission to continue this ( Sicilian ) raspy voice ) Where is this young man?
DON FRANCESCO: ( Sicilian ) raspy voice ) Where is this young man?
TOMASINO: He is right here, standing next to me, Don Francesco.
DON FRANCESCO: ( Sicilian ) Have him come closer, I can't see very well. Vito takes those several steps, so that he is standing right in front of the old man.
DON FRANCESCO: ( Sicilian ) What is your name?
VITO: ( Sicilian ) Vito Corleone.
DON FRANCESCO: ( Sicilian ) You took the name of this town, eh? What was your father's name?
VITO: ( Sicilian ) Antonio Andolini.
DON FRANCESCO: ( Sicilian ) Kill him! Kill him! But he is too late; Vito steps forward.
VITO: ( Sicilian ) In the name of my Father, and my And uses the knife, ritualistically plunging it into the old man's belly, and then up to his throat, which is severed.
MICHAEL: SENATOR KING Did he use at times an alias? Was this alias in certain circles
SENATOR KING: Did he use at times an alias? Was this alias in certain circles
GODFATHER?: It was not an alias. GODFATHER was a term of affection, used by his friends, one of respect.
MICHAEL: It was not an alias. GODFATHER was a term of affection, used by his friends, one of respect.
SENATOR WEEKLER: ( Senator from New York, very smooth, partly liberal, Tammany Hall ) Let me agree with that. Many of my constituents are Italian and have been honored with that certain friendship by my close Italian friends. Up to this point before I have to leave this hearing to join my own committee, let me say, that this hearing on the Mafia is in no way a slur on the Italians by the Senate; nor is it meant to be; nor will I allow it to be. Italian Americans are the hardest working, most law abiding patriotic Americans of our country. It is a shame and a pity that a few rotten apples give them a bad name. We are here to weed those rotten apples out of the vast healthy barrel of Italian Americans, who are one of the backbones of our country. There is a pause for a while, while the New York Senator poses for the TV cameras and leaves the hearing so that he will not be associated with hearing the rough stuff.
SENATOR KANE: I'm sure we all agree with our esteemed colleague. Now, Mr. Corleone, you have been advised as to your legal rights. We have had testimony from a preceding witness who states you are head of the most powerful Mafia family in this country. Are you?
MICHAEL: SENATOR KANE This witness has testified that you are personally responsible for the murder of a New York Police Captain in the year 1947 and with him a man named Virgil Sollozzo. Do you deny I deny his every charge.
SENATOR KANE: This witness has testified that you are personally responsible for the murder of a New York Police Captain in the year 1947 and with him a man named Virgil Sollozzo. Do you deny I deny his every charge.
MICHAEL: I deny his every charge.
SENATOR KANE: Is it true that in the year 1950 you devised the murder of the heads of the Five Families in New York, to assume and consolidate your nefarious power?
MICHAEL: That is a complete falsehood.
SENATOR KANE: Is it true that you own a controlling interest in three of the major hotels in Las Vegas?
MICHAEL: That is not true. I own some stock in some of the hotels, but only very small amounts. I also own some American Telephone and IBM Michael had checked this point with Hagen, before answering, and then once again after the answer.
SENATOR ROGERS: Why is it necessary for your counsel to advise you on that Senator, I've observed the head of General Motors before a Senate Committee, and his lawyer whispered in his ear. That was not commented upon in the way you have just done.
MICHAEL: Senator, I've observed the head of General Motors before a Senate Committee, and his lawyer whispered in his ear. That was not commented upon in the way you have just done.
SENATOR KANE: Mr. Corleone, do you have any hotel interests in the state of Arizona? Or any gambling interests in that I do not.
MICHAEL: I do not.
SENATOR KANE: Do you have interests or control over gambling and narcotics in the state of New York.
MICHAEL: I do not. A pause. Silence, as the Chairman whispers something to his Tom Hagen takes a paper out of his briefcase, and addresses the Chair.
HAGEN: Senator, my client would like to read a statement for the record.
SENATOR KANE: I don't think that's necessary.
HAGEN: Sir, my client has answered every question asked by this committee with the utmost cooperation and sincerity. He has not taken that Fifth Amendment as it was his right to do, and which because of the extreme legal complexity of this hearing, counsel advised him to do. So, I think in all fairness this committee should hear his statement and put it in the record.
SENATOR KANE: Very well. At this point Senator Rogers contemptuously walks out of the hearing room.
MICHAEL: ( reading ) In the hopes of clearing my family name, in the sincere desire to give my children their fair share of the American way of life without a blemish on their name and background I have appeared before this committee and given it all the cooperation in my power. I consider my being called before this committee an act of prejudice to all Americans of Italian extraction. I consider it a great dishonor to me personally to have to deny that I am a criminal. I wish to have the following noted for the record. That I served my country faithfully and honorably in World War II and was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross for actions in defense of my country. That I have never been arrested or indicted for any crime whatsoever. that no proof linking me to any criminal conspiracy, whether it is called Mafia or Cosa Nostra or whatever other name you wish to give, has ever been made public. Only one man has made charges against me, and that man is known to be a murderer, arsonist and rapist. And yet this committee had used this person to besmirch my name. My personal protest can only be made to the people of this country. I can only thank God that in this country we have a legal system and courts of law to protect innocent people from wild accusation. I thank God for our democratic due process of Law that shields me from the false charges made by this committee's witness. I have not taken refuge behind the Fifth Amendment, though counsel advised me to do so. I challenge this committee to produce any witness or evidence against me, and if they do not, I hope they will have the decency to clear my name with the same publicity with which they have now besmirched it. I ask this without malice, in the interests of fair play. The television cameras have documented this moment, as Hagen hands the document over to the committee lawyer.
SENATOR ROGERS: We are all impressed. The committee will now recess over the weekend. However, it will continue Monday morning, at eleven a.m. At that time, this committee will then produce a witness directly linking Mr. Corleone to the charges we have made. And then, Mr. Corleone may very well by liable for indictments of perjury. However, this document will be made a matter of record.
PENTANGELI: Ten to one shot, you said. Ten to one shot in my favor, and I lose.
PENTANGELI: My life won't be worth a nickel after tomorrow.
PENTANGELI: Yeah, some deal I made.
PENTANGELI: Some deal. I just wish Mike had took the Fifth.
PENTANGELI: I didn't turn against nobody; he turned against me.
MICHAEL: How did they get their hands on Roth engineered it, Michael. He made Pentangeli think you hit him. Deliberately letting him get off alive. Then the New York detectives turned Frankie over to the FBI. My informants say he was half dead and scared stiff talking out loud that you had turned on him and tried to kill him. Anyway, they had him on possession, dealing in heroin, murder one and a lot more. There's no way we can get to him and you've opened yourself to five points of perjury.
HAGEN: Roth engineered it, Michael. He made Pentangeli think you hit him. Deliberately letting him get off alive. Then the New York detectives turned Frankie over to the FBI. My informants say he was half dead and scared stiff talking out loud that you had turned on him and tried to kill him. Anyway, they had him on possession, dealing in heroin, murder one and a lot more. There's no way we can get to him and you've opened yourself to five points of perjury.
NERI: They've got him airtight. He's in a military base, twenty-four hour guards. Trying to kill him is like trying to like the President it's impossible.
MICHAEL: What does Fredo know?
HAGEN: He says he doesn't know anything, and I believe him. Roth played this one beautifully.
MICHAEL: Alright. I'm going to go outside and talk to Fredo.
FREDO: ( after a pause ) I don't have a lot to say, Michael.
MICHAEL: We have time.
FREDO: I was kept pretty much in the dark. I didn't know all that much.
MICHAEL: What about now, is there anything you can help me out with?
FREDO: I know they get Pentangeli, that's all I know. Fredo gets up, walks to the glass panel that separates the terrace from the lake.
FREDO: I didn't know it was a hit. I swear to you I didn't know. Johnny Ola contacted me in Beverly Hills said he wanted to talk. He said you and Roth were in on some big deal, and there was a place for me in it if I could help them out. They said you were being tough on the negotiation, and if they had a little bit of help, they could close it fast and it would be good for you.
MICHAEL: And you believed that story.
FREDO: He said there was something good in it for me.me on my own.
MICHAEL: I've always taken care of you.
FREDO: Taken care of me. Mike, you're my kid brother, and you take care of my. Did you ever think of that. Ever once? Send Fredo off to do this, send Fredo to take care of that. take care of some little unimportant night club here, and there; pick somebody up at the airport. Mike, I'm your older brother; I was stepped over!
MICHAEL: It's the way Pop wanted it.
FREDO: It wasn't the way I wanted it! I can handle things. I'm not dumb Christ, not like everyone says. I'm smart; and I want respect.
MICHAEL: There's nothing more you can tell me about this investigation?
FREDO: The lawyer; Questadt, he belongs to You're nothing to me now, Fredo; not a brother, not a friend, I don't want to know you, or what happens to you. I don't want to see you at the hotels, or near my home. When you visit our Mother, I want to know a day in advance, so I won't be there. Do you understand? Michael turns, and starts to leave. A frightened voice behind him:
MICHAEL: You're nothing to me now, Fredo; not a brother, not a friend, I don't want to know you, or what happens to you. I don't want to see you at the hotels, or near my home. When you visit our Mother, I want to know a day in advance, so I won't be there. Do you understand? Michael turns, and starts to leave. A frightened voice behind him:
FREDO: Michael doesn't stop, doesn't turn back. He continues off through the veranda, and out the summer doors. Neri stops by him.
MICHAEL: I don't want anything to happen to him while my Mother's alive. Michael leaves.
PENTANGELI: Let's go. The Agents open the door, and precede him, surveying the area. They check the cars waiting, each with two Agents. They check the gate and note the military sentries. Then they stand aside, and let Pentangeli come out. They get close to his side, and it is obvious they will protect his life with their own.
MED. VIEW: Anyone given entrance to the caucus room is being frisked. The five Senators take their places.
PENTANGELI'S POV: Michael returns his glances without emotion. Then the VIEW ALTERS, revealing the Sicilian.
SENATOR KANE: We have here a witness who will testify further on Michael Corleone's rule of the criminal empire that controls gambling in this country and perhaps in other countries. This witness had no buffer between himself and Michael Corleone. He can corroborate our charges on enough counts for this committee to consider a charge of perjury against Michael Corleone. Your name please, for the record.
PENTANGELI: Frank Pentangeli.
SENATOR KANE: Were you a member of the Corleone Family? Were you under the Caporegime Peter Clemenza, under Vito Corleone, known as the There is a long silence.
PENTANGELI: I never knew no Godfather. I got my own family. Senator Kane is stunned. The two FBI men are alert, their eyes searching the room for what has intimidated their witness at the last moment.
SENATOR KANE: Mr. Pentangeli, you are contradicting your confessions to our investigators; I ask you again, were you a member of a crime organization headed by Michael No. I never heard of it. I never heard of nothing like that. I was in the olive oil business with his father a long time ago. That's all.
PENTANGELI: No. I never heard of it. I never heard of nothing like that. I was in the olive oil business with his father a long time ago. That's all.
SENATOR KANE: We have your confession that you murdered on the orders of Michael Corleone. Do you deny that confession and do you know what denying that confession will mean to you? The die is cast and like a good soldier, Pentangeli will go all the way now. So he is brazen in his defiance of the The FBI guys promised me a deal. So I made up a lot of stuff about Michael Corleone. Because then, that's what they wanted. But it was all lies. Everything. They said Michael Corleone did this, Michael Corleone did that. So I said, "Yeah, sure." He makes a big grin to show how he has made fools of VIEW ON THE FBI AGENTS glancing around the room; their eyes have settled on the Sicilian. One of them scribbles a note on a piece of paper, and passes it to the Committee lawyer. Then in turn it goes to Senator Kane.
PENTANGELI: The FBI guys promised me a deal. So I made up a lot of stuff about Michael Corleone. Because then, that's what they wanted. But it was all lies. Everything. They said Michael Corleone did this, Michael Corleone did that. So I said, "Yeah, sure." He makes a big grin to show how he has made fools of VIEW ON THE FBI AGENTS glancing around the room; their eyes have settled on the Sicilian. One of them scribbles a note on a piece of paper, and passes it to the Committee lawyer. Then in turn it goes to Senator Kane.
SENATOR KANE: Mr. Hagen, would you kindly identify to this committee that gentleman sitting on your right hand?
HAGEN: ( coolly ) Yes, sir. His name is Vincenzo Is he related to the witness?
SENATOR KANE: Is he related to the witness?
HAGEN: He is, I believe, a brother.
SENATOR KANE: ( to Vincenzo Pentangeli ) Sir, I would like you to take the Vincenzo stares at him, uncomprehending. There may just be a shadow of contempt. He doesn't answer.
HAGEN: Sir, the gentleman does not understand English. He would not in any case, take the stand. He came, at his own expense, to aid his brother in his trouble. He is not under any jurisdiction of our government and his reputation in his own country is impeccable.
SENATOR KANE: ( furious ) The witness is excused; take him out. The guards and FBI Agents quickly remove Pentangeli, as everybody else in the room is required to sit still.
HAGEN: Senator Kane.
SENATOR KANE: This meeting is adjourned.
HAGEN: ( rising and shouting ) This committee owes an apology!
SENATOR KANE: The committee is adjourned until further notice. For the first time, in the midst of the confusion, Hagen smiles. A bitter, contemptuous smile.
ROCCO: It's Kay. Michael is sitting in an easy chair; he seems to have difficulty with his eyes.
MICHAEL: On the phone?
ROCCO: No, she's here. Michael rises, surprised. Rocco steps back, and Kay enters.
MICHAEL: I had no idea.
KAY: I wanted to see you before you went back to Nevada. Also, the children - Michael, they're here.
MICHAEL: In a minute. They're outside with Esther. I'm very happy for you. I suppose I knew that you're simply too smart for anyone ever to beat Why don't you sit down?
KAY: In a minute. They're outside with Esther. I'm very happy for you. I suppose I knew that you're simply too smart for anyone ever to beat Why don't you sit down?
MICHAEL: Why don't you sit down?
KAY: I'm not going to stay long; I can't.
MICHAEL: There are a lot of things I want to talk to you about. Things I've been thinking about changes I want to make.
KAY: I think it's too late for changes, Michael. I promised myself I wouldn't talk about it and I've gone and spoiled it.
MICHAEL: Why too late?
KAY: Tell me, Michael. What really happened with Pentangeli?
MICHAEL: His brother came to help him.
KAY: I didn't even know he had a brother. And where is he now?
MICHAEL: On a plane back to Sicily.
KAY: And that's all he had to do. Just show his face.
MICHAEL: That's all. You see, in Sicily, in the old days. there was only one legitimate reason to kill a blood relative. only one. IF he was a You would have killed his brother?
KAY: You would have killed his brother?
MICHAEL: Kay, you've got it wrong. That kind of thing's all over, I promised you. This was between the two brothers. Years ago Frankie had a young girlfriend; he called her his co-wife. That was his joke, but he meant it. He wouldn't divorce his wife. because she was a great cook. He said he girlfriend made a spaghetti sauce once and it was so terrible he knew he could never marry her. He set her up in a house in Jersey. She had to be faithful. and she had to have kids. And she did, two, a boy and a girl. He had her checked out and watched so she couldn't cheat. but the girl couldn't stand that kind of life. She begged him to let her go. He did. He gave her money and made her give up the kids. Then Frankie took them to Italy, and had them brought up by his brother Vincenzo. Where he knew they'd by safe. Kay begins to realize.
MICHAEL: When he saw his brother in the hearing room, he knew what was at I don't think Vincenzo would have done it. He loves the kids, too. Omerta, Kay. Honor, silence. It had nothing to do with me. It was between those brothers.
KAY: I'll bring the children up now; they want to say goodbye.
MICHAEL: Kay, I told you.
KAY: Goodbye, Michael.
MICHAEL: I won't let you leave! Christ, do you think I'm going to let you leave.
KAY: ( meekly ) No, I don't want to hear anything. There are things between men and women that will not change; things that have been the same for thousands of years. You are my wife, and they are my children. and I love you and I will not let you leave, because you are MINE!
MICHAEL: No, I don't want to hear anything. There are things between men and women that will not change; things that have been the same for thousands of years. You are my wife, and they are my children. and I love you and I will not let you leave, because you are MINE!
KAY: Oh, I do feel things for you, Michael; but now, I think it's pity. For the first time since I've known you, you seem so helpless. You held me a prisoner once; will you try again?
MICHAEL: If that's what it takes; then yes, I will.
KAY: At this moment, I feel no love for you at all. I never thought that could happen, but it has.
MICHAEL: We'll go back tonight. Bring the You haven't heard me. He moves to her; he does love her, and is tender with her.
KAY: You haven't heard me. He moves to her; he does love her, and is tender with her.
MICHAEL: How can I let you leave; how can I let you take my children away? Don't you know me? You understand, it's an impossibility. I would never let it happen; no, never, not if it took all my strength, all my cunning. But in time, soon, you'll feel differently. You see, you'll be happy that I stopped you. I know you. You'll forget about this; you'll forget about the baby we lost. and we'll go on, you and
KAY: The baby I lost.
MICHAEL: I know what it meant. and I'm prepared to make it up to you. I will make changes; I can. I CAN change; that I have learned, that I have the strength to change. And we have another child, a boy. and you'll forget the miscarriage.
KAY: It wasn't a miscarriage. And you with your cunning, couldn't you figure it out! It was an abortion; an abortion, like our marriage is an abortion, something unholy and evil. I don't want your son; I wouldn't bring another of your sons into this world. An abortion, Michael. it was a son, and I had it killed, but this must all end!
KAY: And I know that now it's over; I knew it then, there would be no way you could ever forgive me, not with this Sicilian thing that goes back two thousand years. He is silent, though raging then, with all his passion, and his strength, he raises his arms, and strikes her across her neck, literally knocking her down to the floor, and hurting her badly.
MICHAEL: ( coldly ) You won't take my children.
FREDO: Tom. Where's Mike?
HAGEN: ( difficult to tell him ) He's waiting for you to leave.
FREDO: Can I talk to him?
HAGEN: No chance. I'm sorry, Freddie.
CONNIE: ( who has heard this ) Can I see him?
HAGEN: He's in the boathouse.
CONNIE: I want to stay close to home now, is that alright? Michael nods.
CONNIE: Is Kay coming?
MICHAEL: Michael, Fredo's in the house with Mama. He asked for you, and Tom said he couldn't see you.
CONNIE: Michael, Fredo's in the house with Mama. He asked for you, and Tom said he couldn't see you.
MICHAEL: Tom is right.
CONNIE: Kids, why don't you go outside for a while? The children don't move; Connie realizes they will only listen to Michael.
CONNIE: I want to talk to you, Michael.
MICHAEL: The children can stay.
CONNIE: I hated you for so long, Michael; for so many years. I think I did things to myself, to hurt myself, so that you would know and you would be hurt too. But I understand you now; I think I do. You were being strong for all of us, like Papa was. And I forgive you, and want to be close to you now. Can't you forgive Fredo; he's so sweet, and helpless without you. Slowly, Michael puts his hand on her hair, and touches her You need me, Michael. I want to be with you now.
CONNIE: You need me, Michael. I want to be with you now.
MED. VIEW: Michael enters the room, followed by Connie, who tends little Mary and Anthony. He approaches his brother, and then embraces. Fredo breaks into tears.
FREDO: Christ, Mike. Jesus Christ, Mike.
SANDRA: You're going to talk to him now.
HAGEN: Will you tell him?
SANDRA: Will you tell him?
HAGEN: I don't know. She stops him.
SANDRA: Tom, think of yourself for once. Don't let this opportunity slip through your fingers; don't do it. We're all trapped here, don't you He continues past her, without answering her. Continues up to the boathouse. He stops before he enters.
HAGEN'S VIEW: Fredo is sitting by the edge of the harbor with Michael's son Anthony; he is helping him with some fishing rig.
MICHAEL: ( without looking back ) Sit down, Tom. Have you heard about our friend and partner, Mr. Hyman Roth?
HAGEN: I know he's in Israel.
NERI: ( hands Hagen the paper ) The High Court of Israel turned down his request to live as a 'returned Jew.' His passport's been invalidated except for return to the U.S. He landed in Buenos Aires yesterday, offered a gift of one million dollars if they would give him citizenship. They turned him ( reading ) He's going to try Panama.
HAGEN: ( reading ) He's going to try Panama.
MICHAEL: They won't take him; not for a million, not for ten million.
HAGEN: His medical condition is reported as. "terminal."
MICHAEL: He's been dying of the same heart attack for twenty years.
HAGEN: That plane goes to Miami.
MICHAEL: I want it met.
HAGEN: ( understanding ) Mike, it's impossible. He'll be met by the Internal Revenue; the Customs Service, and half the FBI.
MICHAEL: I don't like it when you use the word impossible; nothing is Mike, it would be like trying to kill the President; there's no way we can get to him.
HAGEN: Mike, it would be like trying to kill the President; there's no way we can get to him.
MICHAEL: I'm surprised at you, Tom. If there's anything certain; certain in life; if history has taught us anything, it's that you can kill. ANYBODY. But perhaps your relucatance is because you've come to tell me that you're moving your family to Vegas, that you've been offered the Vice-Presidency of the Houstan Hotels there. Or weren't you going to tell me at all?
HAGEN: Are you so hungry for traitors; do you want to find them everywhere?
MICHAEL: They are everywhere!
HAGEN: I turned Houstan down; I didn't see why I should tell you about an offer I turned down. Are you sure, Mikey? Are you sure of what we're doing; what we'll gain; what does the family gain? Forget that, Mike; I already know the answer.
MICHAEL: I know you do, Tom. Then I can count on you to help me do the things I have to do. If not, call Houstan, and become a Vice-President. Take your family and your mistress and move them to Las Vegas.
HAGEN: Why do you hurt me, Michael? I've always been loyal to you.
MICHAEL: Good. Then you're staying.
HAGEN: I'm staying. Don't ever enjoy the cruel part of all this; Sonny never listened to me about that. Now, explain everything to me.
FREDO: Anthony, ole buddy, your Uncle Fredo's gonna teach you how to catch the big fish. You know, when I was a kid, I did this amazing thing. I went out on a fishing trip; me and my brothers and my Pop, and no one could catch a fish except me. And this was my secret: Every time I would put the line down I would say a "Hail Mary" and every time I said a "Hail Mary" I would catch a fish. Now, when it's sunset, we're gonna go out on the lake, and we're gonna try it.
HAGEN: I think I prefer to see my client The room has a bug in it.
PENTANGELI: The room has a bug in it.
HAGEN: ( to the FBI men ) I'd like to go outside with him, in the open air.
HAGEN: You have guards outside and the electric fence. There's no security reason for not letting us talk in the yard.
HAGEN: Everything is going to be okay, Frankie, don't worry.
PENTANGELI: Did my brother go back?
HAGEN: Yeah, but don't worry.
PENTANGELI: He's ten times tougher than me, my brother. He's old-fashioned.
HAGEN: Yeah. He wouldn't even go out to dinner. Just wanted to go home.
PENTANGELI: That's my brother. Nothing could get him away from that two mule town. He coulda been big over here he could of had his own You're right.
HAGEN: You're right.
PENTANGELI: Tom, what do I do now? The light is beginning to turn reddish as the sun falls.
HAGEN: Frankie, you were always interested in politics, in history. I remember you talking about Hitler back in '43. We were young then.
PENTANGELI: Yeah, I still read a lot. They bring me stuff.
HAGEN: You were around the old timers who dreamed up how the Families should be organized, how they based it on the old Roman Legions, and called them 'Regimes'. with the 'Capos' and 'Soldiers,' and it worked.
PENTANGELI: Yeah, it worked. Those were great old days. We was like the Roman Empire. The Corleone family was like the Roman Empire.
HAGEN: ( sadly ) Yeah, it was once. They both puff on their cigars. Pentangeli lets himself be carried away by thoughts of old days of glory; Hagen thinks of other days too.
HAGEN: ( very gently ) The Roman Empire. when a plot against the Emperor failed, the plotters were always given a chance to let their families keep their Yeah, but only the rich guys. The little guys got knocked off. If they got arrested and executed, all their estate went to the Emperor. If they just went home and killed themselves, up front, nothing Yeah, that was a good break. A nice deal. Pentangeli looks at Hagen; he understands.
PENTANGELI: Yeah, but only the rich guys. The little guys got knocked off. If they got arrested and executed, all their estate went to the Emperor. If they just went home and killed themselves, up front, nothing Yeah, that was a good break. A nice deal. Pentangeli looks at Hagen; he understands.
HAGEN: Yeah, that was a good break. A nice deal. Pentangeli looks at Hagen; he understands.
PENTANGELI: They went home and sat in a hot bath and opened their veins, and bled to death. Sometimes they gave a little party before they did it. Hagen throws away his cigar. Pentangeli puffs on his.
HAGEN: Don't worry about anything, Frankie Thanks, Tom. Thanks. They shake hands. The FBI Agents come out to let Hagen out the gate. Pentangeli is led back to the house.
PENTANGELI: Thanks, Tom. Thanks. They shake hands. The FBI Agents come out to let Hagen out the gate. Pentangeli is led back to the house.
PENTANGELI: You boys sure you can't get me a broad for tonight? Give me a little party?
PENTANGELI: I guess I'll just take a hot bath.
MED. VIEW: The boat pulls up alongside Fredo and Anthony.
FREDO: Here we go; and remember the secret. He lifts Anthony into the boat.
THEIR VIEW: Connie, in houseclothes, is calling Anthony.
FREDO: He's here; we're goin' fishing.
CONNIE: He can't go; Michael wants to take him into Reno.
FREDO: Ah. Okay, kid, you got to go to Reno with your Pop. He lifts the boy out of the boat, and puts him on the shore.
FREDO: I'll catch one for you, with the Hurry, Anthony. Neri stands the motor; and the boat with the two fisherman glides off.
CONNIE: Hurry, Anthony. Neri stands the motor; and the boat with the two fisherman glides off.
HIS VIEW: Pentangeli lying in a tub of water. His stomach shows above it. His wrists are cut and covered with blood. The bath water has a purplish tone.
FREDO: . the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou amongst women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus.
LONG SHOT: The boat on the shimmery lake.
FREDO: . Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us. We hear a quiet, echoing GUNSHOT; and then silence.
FBI MAN: Mr. Roth, we have to take you into Yes, I know. Some flashbulbs go off.
ROTH: Yes, I know. Some flashbulbs go off.
REPORTER: Can you give us your reaction to the High Court of Israel's ruling.
ROTH: I am a retired investor on a pension, and I wished to live there as a Jew in the twilight of my Mr. Roth is not a well man; he's tired of running.
LAWYER: Mr. Roth is not a well man; he's tired of running.
ROTH: I'm an old man; at my age, it's too late to start worrying.
REPORTER: Is it true you are worth over three hundred million dollars, Mr. Roth?
ROTH: I'm a retired investor, living on a pension. I came home to vote in the Presidential election, because they wouldn't give me an absentee The newsmen and photographers all laugh, as the FBI men move him away.
CLOSE VIEW: One of the newspapermen laughing we recognize to be Rocco He moves closer to Roth, and shoves his revolver right against his head, and in a second, on camera, assassinates Roth. People scream, as Rocco attempts to run down the airport corridor, limping as he does. FBI men easily pick him off.
MED. VIEW: Connie comes into the house quickly, and moves toward them.
CONNIE: Kay, you have to go. This prompts Esther to weep all the more. Kay hugs her daughter, and kisses her many times.
CONNIE: You have to hurry; he's coming. Kay puts her coat on; then stands, and reaches out for her Anthony, kiss Mama goodbye. He doesn't move.
KAY: Anthony, kiss Mama goodbye. He doesn't move.
CONNIE: ( angrily ) Anthony, you kiss your Mother He rises, and walks to her. Hugs her lifelessly.
KAY: Anthony, say goodbye; your Mama loves you.
ANTHONY: She restrains any tears; she has become too strong for tears. Kay starts to go; picks up Mary, kisses her, and starts to go.
NEW VIEW: She steps out the kitchen door; then she cannot help herself. Crouches down, outside, and calls to her son.
KAY: Anthony, kiss me once. Then she looks up, and slowly rises.
HER VIEW: Michael has stepped into the dining room. He seems older somehow; as though some sickness has taken more years away from him.
MED. VIEW: The water is whipped up by the wind, and the waves are high as they break against the pavilion. We HEAR the MUSIC of time passing, of Michael, of the Godfather over these images.
MED. VIEW: The peninsula of the private Corleone Harbor. We see the figures of two people, seated at a table.
MED. VIEW: Michael sits at a table having a sparse lunch. He is attended by his sister Connie, who seems to be the closest person now living on the estate with him. We see from the way she pampers him with his lunch, that she has fallen into the role of a surrogate Mother-Wife. He seems older than his years, as though his illness, diabetes, has taken its She picks up some of the serving plates that he has left She moves back to the main house.
CONNIE: Don't worry; I'm sure he got here on time. The roads from the airport are so windy, it takes forever; I've driven them myself. She picks up some of the serving plates that he has left I'll bring him out to you as soon as he comes. She moves back to the main house.
CONNIE: I'll bring him out to you as soon as he comes. She moves back to the main house.
ANTHONY: Hello, Dad.
MICHAEL: He rises, and reaches up to his son, who is now taller than he; he embraces him.
MICHAEL: You've grown so tall. so tall in the last year. You're much taller than me.
ANTHONY: I was taller than you when I was Sit down. Your Aunt Connie and I waited for you to have some lunch, but now it's all dried out.
MICHAEL: Sit down. Your Aunt Connie and I waited for you to have some lunch, but now it's all dried out.
ANTHONY: I'm not hungry.
MICHAEL: Well, that's alright. alright. Good. You'll graduate in another year, isn't that right? You know. I never finished college. I was a good student, but I never finished. Of course, there was a war then. Connie approaches them.
CONNIE: Don't let me interrupt anything, this will just take a second. Here. Your father has to have his insulin shot. Why don't you go to your room and put your things away, She begins to give Michael the shot.
MICHAEL: Hurry back; we'll talk. We'll talk. Anthony goes on his way to the house with his things. Connie gives Michael the shot.
CONNIE: Whenever I see that lake so cold, I think of poor Fredo, drowned. Lake Tahoe is very cold. They say if a person drowns in it, that the body will remain mid-suspended perfectly preserved. Some say it will remain forever. She finishes the shot, puts her things away.
CONNIE: Your boy will be right back. She leaves.
SONNY: Hey, who knows my buddy Carlo Rizzi. Here. my brother Fredo, here's my Mom. Mom, whatcha got cooking? And Carlo, this is my kid sister Connie. Here, pull up a chair, Carol is sitting next to Connie. Oh, the droopy kid over there is Mike. The college boy. An older, lanky man enters the room, his arms laden with presents. This is TESSIO.
TESSIO: Buon Natale, everybody. Buon Hi, Tom, how's every little thing?
HAGEN: ( helping him with the presents ) Wonderful, Sal. Now the study door opens, and DON CORLEONE enters.
DON CORLEONE: Is dinner ready?
MOM: Two minutes. The Don happily regards his family; his sons and daughters and even some Grandchildren. He raises a glass.
DON CORLEONE: A good life, a long life to all my children, and friends. To my grandchildren, and those that will be. To our family. They all drink. They refill glasses; then Tessio proposes a toast.
TESSIO: To our Godfather. They all drink.
SONNY: What'd you think of those Japs, eh? The nerve of those Japs, coming right here in our own backyard dropping bombs!
HAGEN: Well, we could have expected it after the embargo.
SONNY: Hey! Expect it or not, those Japs don't have a right to drop bombs in our backyard. Whose side you on?
MAMA: Please, do we have to talk about the war at the table? On Christmas, much less.
MICHAEL: Pop, I've decided I'm going to A quiet hush descends over the table, as though everyone knows the effect this will have on the old man. Sonny tries to make light of it.
SONNY: Kid, stay in college. The girls are cuter, if you know what I mean.
HAGEN: Pop had to pull a lot of strings to get you your deferment.
MICHAEL: I never asked for it; I don't want VIEW ON DON CORLEONE Disturbed; but wise and prudent.
DON CORLEONE: My son wants to talk about this, and so we'll talk, but not at the dinner table. He rises, and starts across the room toward his study. Then he looks back.
DON CORLEONE: He disappears into his study. Michael rises, glances around. People are generally tense over the situation. Michael follows his father into the study.
DON CORLEONE: Would you like some?
MICHAEL: No, Dad.
DON CORLEONE: Now what is this talk about joining the army? Eh?
MICHAEL: It's not talk; I'm doing it.
DON CORLEONE: You would risk your life for Not for strangers; for my country.
MICHAEL: Not for strangers; for my country.
DON CORLEONE: Anyone not in your family, is a stranger. Believe me, when trouble comes, your country won't take care of you.
MICHAEL: That's how it was in the old world, Pop, but this is not Sicily.
DON CORLEONE: I know. I know, Michael. It's Christmas, your brothers and sister are all here we are happy. Let's not spoil this. Go your own way, but when you are ready, come to me the way a son should. I have hopes for you.
MICHAEL: I won't be a man like you.
