GRAN TORINO: Written by Nick Schenk
OLDER MAN: I'm real sorry about Dorothy, Walt. She was a real peach.
WALT: Thanks for coming, Al. Walt Kowalski looks young for his age. He has slate blue eyes, physically fit and has had the same buzz cut hairstyle since getting out of the military in 1953. Walt is also a perfectionist. Nothing escapes his hawklike eyes, eyes that pierce and judge. Walt looks around at how the young people have dressed at his wife's funeral. His eyes narrow at his GRANDDAUGHTER's belly button ring.
WALT: Jesus Christ. Walt's two sons, MITCH and STEVE, watch their father from across the pews.
MITCH: Look at the Old Man glaring at Ashley. He can't even tone it down at Mom's funeral?
STEVE: What do you expect? Dad's still living in the ‘50s. He expects his granddaughter to dress a little more modestly.
MITCH: Yeah, well your kid's wearing a Timberwolves jersey. I'm sure Dad appreciates that.
STEVE: My point is that there's nothing anyone can do that won't disappoint the Old Man.
PAGE 3: It's inevitable. That's why we stopped doing Thanksgivings; the deal with the boat motor, the broken bird bath, it's always What are we going to do with him? Don't you think he'll get in trouble by himself over in the old Why don't you have him move in with you?
MITCH: What are we going to do with him? Don't you think he'll get in trouble by himself over in the old Why don't you have him move in with you?
STEVE: Why don't you have him move in with you?
MITCH: Ha ha.
FATHER JANOVICH: Death. is often a bittersweet occasion to us Catholics. Bitter in the pain it causes the deceased . and their families. Sweet to those who know the salvation that awaits them. And some may ask, what is death. Is it the end? Or is it the beginning? And what is life? What is this thing we call Walt coughs. He takes a handkerchief and wipes his lips. He looks down and notices a speck of BLOOD on the white INT. WALT'S HOUSE - SAME TIME The house is crammed with people following the service. Walt doesn't know what to do with himself. He has to keep busy. Steve steps over to his father.
WALT: Walt coughs. He takes a handkerchief and wipes his lips. He looks down and notices a speck of BLOOD on the white INT. WALT'S HOUSE - SAME TIME The house is crammed with people following the service. Walt doesn't know what to do with himself. He has to keep busy. Steve steps over to his father.
STEVE: A lot of people showed up after the service.
WALT: Yeah, well, I s'pose they knew there'd be plenty of ham. I think I'll go downstairs and get some more chairs.
STEVE: I'll do it, Dad.
WALT: Naw, we need them now, not next INT. CELLAR - SAME TIME Grandsons JOSH, DANIEL and DAVID look through boxes in the cellar. A box of old Korea War photos are pawed Josh holds up a black-and-white PHOTO a young WALT looks utterly exhausted, behind him six bodies are sprawled dead on the ground.
DAVID: Is that Dad?
DANIEL: No, it's Grandpa Walt. Josh turns the photo over and reads it.
JOSH: ‘Third Platoon, E company, March second, 1952, Korea.'
DANIEL: Where's Korea?
JOSH: Hell if I know? David holds up a MEDAL.
PAGE 5: Cool, I found a medal. They hear someone coming downstairs. By the time Walt descends the staircase, the boys sit on the couch, pretending to be doing nothing. Walt gives them a hard look as he grabs some chairs.
DAVID: Cool, I found a medal. They hear someone coming downstairs. By the time Walt descends the staircase, the boys sit on the couch, pretending to be doing nothing. Walt gives them a hard look as he grabs some chairs.
UPSTAIRS: People eat and chat. Ashley marches over to her parents, KAREN and Mitch.
MITCH: Ashley, honey. Why don't you help Grandpa Walt with the chairs?
ASHLEY: Yes you.
KAREN: Yes you.
ASHLEY: Grandpa Walt, can I help you with the chairs.
WALT: I'll take care of it, you just painted your nails. Walt opens the folding chairs and looks out the window. It's snowing. Walt puts on his coat, he almost looks relieved to get out of the house.
WALT: I'd better salt the sidewalk before someone falls and breaks a Walt taps the floor with his boot and DAISY, his very, very, very old DOG follows him outside.
PAGE 6: EXT. WALT'S HOUSE - EVENING Walt carefully shovels his sidewalk. He deliberately stops at the boundary of his property. The reason for this is that Walt's neighbors are now mostly Asians who moved into the house that once belonged to Polish families. Next door to Walt's house some sort of party is going on. Walt can see through the window that the living room is jammed with at least forty people, all Asians, all Hmong. And this is a problem for Walt, because Walt is a full- blown, unrepentant racist. Walt lights a cigarette and speaks to his dog, Daisy.
WALT: Jesus Christ, how many swamp rats can they cram into a living room? Walt spits in the snow and walks back to the garage.
ASHLEY: Wow, Grandpa, when'd you get the vintage car? Walt looks at her for a second, then steps on her still burning cigarette before answering.
WALT: I never knew you had a cool old It's only been in here since before you were born.
ASHLEY: I never knew you had a cool old It's only been in here since before you were born.
WALT: It's only been in here since before you were born.
PAGE 7: So, what are you like going to do with it like, when. you die? Walt lights up a smoke
ASHLEY: So, what are you like going to do with it like, when. you die? Walt lights up a smoke
WALT: Jesus, Joseph and Mary. Walt pulls the cover back over the Gran Torino.
ASHLEY: Then what about that super cool retro couch in the den, I'm going to State next year and I don't have, like, any furniture? Walt walks out without commenting.
WALT: Who the hell are you?
TAO: ( very quietly ) I'm Tao, I live next door.
WALT: What?! Speak up, boy, get the shit out of your mouth. What do you want?
TAO: Do you have jumper cables? My uncle's car is old and.
WALT: No. And have some goddamned respect, zipper head, we're mourning over here. Walt slams the door in Tao's face. Walt turns and is suddenly cornered by Father Janovich. Walt hates situations like this.
PAGE 8: FATHER JANOVICH How you holding up, Walt?
FATHER JANOVICH: How you holding up, Walt?
WALT: Mr. Kowalski.
FATHER JANOVICH: It's Mr. Kowalski, not Walt.
WALT: It's Mr. Kowalski, not Walt.
FATHER JANOVICH: Right, Mr. Kowalski. Your wife and I became quite close these last few months. She asked that I watch over you when she passed on. I told her I watch out for my entire flock, but she made me promise I'd keep an extra sharp eye on you.
WALT: I appreciate your kindness to my wife and now that you've spoken your piece, why don't you move on to the next sheep? Walt starts to step away, but Father Janovich blocks him.
FATHER JANOVICH: Dorothy mentioned specifically that it was her wish for you to go to confession. She said she couldn't remember the last time you went.
WALT: Is that so?
FATHER JANOVICH: It is. Walt drains his lowball glass.
WALT: Well, I confess I never much liked church and only went because of the wife. And I confess I have no desire to confess to a boy who is fresh out of the seminary.
PAGE 9: EXT. WALT'S HOUSE - LATER People are leaving Walt's house. A mass of shuffling, stiff-jointed old Pollacks. Right next door walking the opposite direction are more Hmong going up the sidewalk. They laugh and chatter and carry big dishes of food and fruit. They are a happy bunch compared to the dour crowd exiting Walt's home. The Hmong are going to a birth ceremony. A three-day-old baby is named and three souls are located for the CUT TO: ANOTHER ANGLE Walt leans over a car that contains two shivering old ladies from the funeral. He hooks up the jumper cables to their dead battery. Mitch, Karen, Ashley and Josh pull up next to Walt in a brand new Toyota Land Cruiser. Mitch opens the window.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Walt leans over a car that contains two shivering old ladies from the funeral. He hooks up the jumper cables to their dead battery. Mitch, Karen, Ashley and Josh pull up next to Walt in a brand new Toyota Land Cruiser. Mitch opens the window.
MITCH: I'd really like to help, Dad, but we have to get the kids home, they're getting restless. Walt just looks at the TOYOTA EMBLEM on the Land Cruiser and then gives Mitch a disgusted glance.
WALT: Fine. Go.
MITCH: I'll call in a few, see how you're Walt nods and lights a cigarette as they drive off.
WALT: Kill you to buy American.
MITCH: Did you see him look at the truck? It's always Rice-Burner this or Jap-Buggy that. Even at Mom's funeral, he can't let it go.
PAGE 10: At least he didn't say anything this time.
KAREN: At least he didn't say anything this time.
MITCH: He didn't have to.
KAREN: Well, what do you expect? The man worked at a Ford plant for twenty- eight years.
MITCH: And I suppose that's my goddamned BACK ON WALT Walt gets his guests' engine running. As they drive off, Walt hears faint SINGING. Walt looks into his neighbor's backyard and can't believe his eyes. The Hmong all sing and chant as three CHICKENS have their heads sliced off, right there in the yard. The chickens are held up and everyone chants louder. It's a sacrifice. Walt spits in the snow and says to Barbarians. Goddamned barbarians.
WALT: Barbarians. Goddamned barbarians.
PHONG: ( SUBTITLED ) There's no man in this house, that's why my daughter should remarry. Being a second wife is better than having a woman be the head of the household. It's not our way.
PAGE 11: ( SUBTITLED ) What about Tao?
MAN: ( SUBTITLED ) What about Tao?
PHONG: ( SUBTITLED ) What about him?
MAN: ( SUBTITLED ) He's the man in the house.
PHONG: ( SUBTITLED ) Tao's not a man.
WALT: I thought these zips were supposed to be such hard workers. Christ, I had my own car when I was his EXT. CONVENIENCE STORE - NIGHT Tao exits the store, gets on his bike and rides off.
PAGE 12: A few blocks away, Tao rides past a snowbank when WHAM! A HOCKEY STICK is thrown through the spokes of his front wheel. Tao flies over the handlebars into the A chorus of laughter is heard. Three LATINOS stand around the stunned, prone Tao.
HEAD LATINO: Whatta you gonna do, gook? You gonna ‘Kung Fu' us? Tao just lies there as Latino #2 picks up his bike.
LATINO #2: Surprised it ain't a girl's bike. The Latinos laugh. Tao remains on the ground.
HEAD LATINO: You gonna get up or what? Tao doesn't move.
HEAD LATINO: Tell you what, I'll let you take the first swing. You drop me and you can have your bike back. Tao smiles, he can't help it.
HEAD LATINO: What the fuck you smiling at, gook? Something funny? He grabs Tao by the jacket and pulls him to his feet.
HEAD LATINO: You better get the fuck outta here, bitch. He pushes Tao backwards. Tao falls back into the snow. This time Tao crab-walks back away from the Latinos. The Latinos stroll away with Tao's bike.
PAGE 13: Walt looks around with disdain at his neighbors' houses. Walt's property is perfectly kept, whereas his neighbors' houses are rundown. Walt's eyes linger on every defect, gutter hangs, ripped screen doors, peeling paint. One neighbor has installed a chicken coop. Walt looks down at Daisy
WALT: Damn chinks let their yards go to hell. Polarski would turn over in his grave if he could see what they did to his lawn. Tao walks past. Walt watches him pass.
WALT: I don't know why these goddamned slopes had to move to my block. This used to be a nice EXT. TAO'S HOUSE - SAME TIME Tao nods to an older woman rocking in a broken rocking chair. PHONG nods back to Tao, then turns her evil eye back on Walt, whom she's been seething at all morning.
PHONG: ( SUBTITLED ) Why doesn't that stupid, hairy white man move? He must be too dumb to realize he's not welcome here. All the Mee-Khah left in the neighborhood should just move away. Look at him strut like a She sees Walt glance at her and spit. Phong glares back and spits beetle juice, which has turned her teeth black.
PAGE 14: Jesus Christ, dog, have you gone totally deaf? Walt opens the door. Standing on his front step is Father Janovich.
WALT: Jesus Christ, dog, have you gone totally deaf? Walt opens the door. Standing on his front step is Father Janovich.
FATHER JANOVICH: Hi there, Walt.
WALT: Listen, son, you're not my barber, you're not a friend, so why in the hell do you think you can call me FATHER JANOVICH Sorry. Mr. Kowalski.
FATHER JANOVICH: Sorry. Mr. Kowalski.
WALT: So, what are you peddling now?
FATHER JANOVICH: Oh, nothing. Thought I'd drop by and see how you were doing. Haven't seen you in church in Okay. You've done your good deed, now why don't you run along.
WALT: Okay. You've done your good deed, now why don't you run along.
FATHER JANOVICH: I'd really like to talk, Mr. I don't think so, kid. Sorry.
WALT: I don't think so, kid. Sorry.
FATHER JANOVICH: Why? Do you have a problem with me, Mr. Kowalski?
WALT: You don't want to know.
FATHER JANOVICH: No, I do.
WALT: The problem is I think you're an overeducated, 27-year-old virgin who holds the hands of superstitious old women and promises them eternity.
PAGE 15: Walt shuts the front door in Father Janovich's face.
LATINO DRIVER: Is you a boy or a girl, I can't LATINO #2 What you reading, gook, Jackass And The Rice Stalk? Tao laughs, but keeps walking.
LATINO #2: What you reading, gook, Jackass And The Rice Stalk? Tao laughs, but keeps walking.
LATINO DRIVER: That's right, you keep walking. Fucking slopes everywhere you look, man. Why gooks come up in here and fuck up our neighborhood? Down the street is a suped-up HONDA CIVIC with a big SPOILER on the back. Inside are five Hmong gangbangers. The Hmong gangbangers notice Tao being followed by the Latinos. SPIDER, the driver, squints and then points at Dude, that's my little cousin, You sure about that, Spider?
SPIDER: Dude, that's my little cousin, You sure about that, Spider?
SMOKIE: You sure about that, Spider?
SPIDER: I'm sure. Do we do something. or what? Smokie is the gang leader. He looks at Tao for a second.
SMOKIE: Your cousin tight with anyone?
PAGE 16: No, he flies solo, Smokie.
SPIDER: No, he flies solo, Smokie.
SMOKIE: Okay. Let's go help out our little cousin. Smokie nods to Spider, they roar up and stop right across from Tao and the Latinos' car.
SMOKIE: You better not be giving my bro here a hard time or you're gonna wish you never been born.
LATINO DRIVER: Oh goody, more Rice Niggers. The Latino Driver smiles and flashes a PISTOL. A Hmong kid in the back seat opens the door and displays a sub-machine gun. The Latinos are way out-gunned.
LATINO #2: Fucking Viet Cong swamp rats. Go back to your fucking rice paddy. The Latinos screech their tires and are gone. The Hmongs in the car smile and congratulate themselves. Tao simply keeps walking down the street!
SMOKIE: Where the fuck does he think he's going? Turn us around and go after that cousin of yours. They swing a U-turn and pull up to Tao, keeping pace with him as he walks.
SPIDER: Hey, cuz, slow down, where you going? You should really think about hanging with us, man. If we all stick together, shit like that won't happen, with those Spicks. Tao nods as he walks, but doesn't answer.
SPIDER: You can't be such a little girl. You join up with us, we'll keep you out of trouble, cuz.
PAGE 17: Tao looks at the sub-machine gun cradled by the Hmong gangbanger in the back seat. Smokie takes this all in. He looks down the street and sees that in a half block, Tao will have to pass a group of Latino gangbanger types.
SMOKIE: You think about it and we'll see you tomorrow.
SPIDER: Hey, cuz. Hey, Sue.
SUE: What do you want?
SPIDER: Came to talk to my cousin Tao. Smokie looks over to Sue.
SMOKIE: Spider, who's the other cousin? SUE laughs at the name “Spider.” Sue is seventeen, has long straight hair with red highlights.
SUE: ‘Spider'? Is that what he just called you, Fong?
SPIDER: This is my little cousin, Sue. Smokie takes off his sunglasses and smiles at Sue.
SMOKIE: Hey, Sue. how old are you, girl?
SUE: Mentally, I'm way too old for you. I'm going inside.
PAGE 18: That's right, go inside while the men talk.
SPIDER: That's right, go inside while the men talk.
SUE: Yeah, that's exactly what I'm doing, Fong. Sue rolls her eyes and goes inside. Smokie stares at You think about what we talked A PAUSE. Smokie watches Tao carefully, offers him a cigarette. Tao shakes his head “no” and looks at the That's exactly the point, Tao. Spider told me how everyone thinks you're a pushover, how everybody walks all over you and shit. I mean, look at you, out here working in the garden like a Tao nods silently, but still looks at the ground.
SPIDER: You think about what we talked A PAUSE. Smokie watches Tao carefully, offers him a cigarette. Tao shakes his head “no” and looks at the That's exactly the point, Tao. Spider told me how everyone thinks you're a pushover, how everybody walks all over you and shit. I mean, look at you, out here working in the garden like a Tao nods silently, but still looks at the ground.
SMOKIE: That's exactly the point, Tao. Spider told me how everyone thinks you're a pushover, how everybody walks all over you and shit. I mean, look at you, out here working in the garden like a Tao nods silently, but still looks at the ground.
SMOKIE: It ain't no big thing. You just need a little guidance. Tao looks up at Smokie. Tao looks a little skeptical.
SMOKIE: It's true, man. Shit, I used to be kind of a quiet little punk like you, everybody fucking with me. But finally I said ‘no more.' You, you're lucky, Tao, we got your back. Me? I didn't have nobody. Had to mold my own tribe.
SPIDER: Smokie's right. We're family, right? You with us or what?
SMOKIE: I swear, brother, we're the best friends you'll ever have. And anyone fucks with you, they're ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 19 Come on, man. Tao clears his throat and speaks for the first time.
PAGE 19: Come on, man. Tao clears his throat and speaks for the first time.
SPIDER: Come on, man. Tao clears his throat and speaks for the first time.
TAO: What do I have to do? Smokie points to Walt's open garage.
SMOKIE: Spider mentioned that neighbor of CUT TO: INT. GARAGE ZOOM IN There it sits with the tarp rolled back, Walt's gorgeous, shining GRAN TORINO.
WALT: I got one. A Mexican, a Jew and a colored guy walk into a bar, the bartender looks up at them and says ‘get the fuck out.' The gang laughs, until they see Father Janovich step up to the bar. He smiles as he recognizes several faces.
FATHER JANOVICH: So, here's where my flock congregates when they're not in CONTINUED: ( 2 ) ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 20 Hiya, Father J.
PAGE 20: Hiya, Father J.
MEL: Hiya, Father J.
FATHER JANOVICH: Hi, Mel. Hey there, Darrel.
DARREL: Hello, Father.
FATHER JANOVICH: Hi, Walt. Walt says nothing. He just sips his beer.
DARREL: What brings you in here, Father? The meat raffle?
FATHER JANOVICH: No. I came down to talk to Walt, if that's okay. Mel and Darrel look at Walt. It puts him on the spot.
WALT: I have to hand it to you, Padre. You are persistent.
FATHER JANOVICH: I promised your wife. Walt looks over at Mel and Darrel and then back at Father Oh Jesus Christ, let's grab a INT. VFW BOOTH - SAME TIME The waitress comes over.
WALT: Oh Jesus Christ, let's grab a INT. VFW BOOTH - SAME TIME The waitress comes over.
WALT: I'll have a Pabst and a shot. What are you having, Father?
FATHER JANOVICH: I'll have a Diet Coke.
WALT: Bullshit, this is a bar, what do you want to drink?
PAGE 21: FATHER JANOVICH Ummmm. I'll have a gin and The waitress leaves.
FATHER JANOVICH: Ummmm. I'll have a gin and The waitress leaves.
WALT: The waitress leaves.
WALT: So, what do you want?
FATHER JANOVICH: I promised your wife I'd get you to go to confession.
WALT: Jesus Christ, why'd you do that?
FATHER JANOVICH: She was very insistent. She made You sure are fond of promising people stuff you can't deliver on.
WALT: You sure are fond of promising people stuff you can't deliver on.
FATHER JANOVICH: Let's talk about something else.
WALT: Like what?
FATHER JANOVICH: Life and death.
WALT: What would you know about it?
FATHER JANOVICH: I'd like to think I know a lot. I'm a priest.
WALT: You stand at the altar and preach on and on about life and death without knowing anything other than what you learned in priest school. Everything you say sounds like it's out of the Rookie Preachers Handbook.
FATHER JANOVICH: I don't know about that.
PAGE 22: Walt waves his hand and cuts him off.
WALT: ‘Death is bittersweet? Bitter in the pain, sweet in the salvation.' That's what you know of life and death? Good God, it's pathetic.
FATHER JANOVICH: What do you know, Mr. Kowalski?
WALT: Plenty. I lived with death for three years in Korea. We shot people, we stabbed them with bayonets, we hacked seventeen-year- old kids to death with shovels, for Christ's sake. I did things that won't leave me till the day I die, horrible things, things I have to live with.
FATHER JANOVICH: And what about life? Walt has to think for a second. He struggles with his Well. I survived the war. got married. and raised a family.
WALT: Well. I survived the war. got married. and raised a family.
FATHER JANOVICH: Sounds like you know more about death than you do living. Walt downs a shot.
WALT: Maybe so.
WALT: The dog sleeps in her bed in the corner. Walt looks at the clock; it's 3:48 am. Walt looks out his bedroom window. He sees the faint beam of a flashlight in his garage.
PAGE 23: Son of a bitch. Walt pulls on his robe, opens the closet and pulls out the big, 30-06 M1 Garand Rifle he took home from Korea. Walt slides a magazine into the top of the M1 and chambers a round with a loud SNAP.
WALT: Son of a bitch. Walt pulls on his robe, opens the closet and pulls out the big, 30-06 M1 Garand Rifle he took home from Korea. Walt slides a magazine into the top of the M1 and chambers a round with a loud SNAP.
WALT: EXT. ALLEY - SAME TIME Tao scrambles down the alley. Parked off to the side is Spider's Honda. Spider opens the door.
SPIDER: Get in, get in! Tao runs right past him. Spider guns the motor and pulls in front of Tao. Smokie, Spider and another gangbanger get out.
PAGE 24: Get in, Tao.
SMOKIE: Get in, Tao.
TAO: No way. No fucking way. Leave me Smokie, Spider and the other gangbanger grab Tao.
SPIDER: I vouched for you, Tao, because you're family and you're with us Tao struggles.
TAO: He shot at me! I'm out! I'm Tao squirms out of Smokie's grasp. Smokie yells at Tao as he runs away.
SMOKIE: Don't fool yourself, Tao. You don't join us and bail. Dumb Should we go after him?
SPIDER: Should we go after him?
SMOKIE: Naw, he's got nowhere to go. Let's get out of here.
WALT: MITCH ( V.O. ) Morning, Dad, it's your number one son, Mitch.
WALT: It's one in the afternoon. The CAMERA now INTERCUTS BETWEEN Walt and Mitch in the kitchen of his huge, modern suburban house.
PAGE 25: Right, good afternoon, then.
MITCH: Right, good afternoon, then.
WALT: So, what do you want?
MITCH: Me? Nothing. What would I want?
WALT: I don't know. Your wife already went through all of your mother's No. I was just wondering how you are, what's going on, anything new in the old neighborhood? Walt looks at the bullet hole in his Hamm's Beer sign.
MITCH: No. I was just wondering how you are, what's going on, anything new in the old neighborhood? Walt looks at the bullet hole in his Hamm's Beer sign.
WALT: Great. Smooth sailing then?
MITCH: Great. Smooth sailing then?
WALT: There's a very painful pause in the conversation.
MITCH: Well good. Say, Dad?
WALT: Do you still know that guy from the plant who has Viking season EXT. WALT'S DRIVEWAY - DAY Walt has parked the Gran Torino at an angle across his driveway. Walt mutters as he rubs Turtle Wax on his car.
MITCH: Do you still know that guy from the plant who has Viking season EXT. WALT'S DRIVEWAY - DAY Walt has parked the Gran Torino at an angle across his driveway. Walt mutters as he rubs Turtle Wax on his car.
PAGE 26: It's stunning. It absolutely sparkles. The chrome shines, the tires look new and the paint is waxed and Walt looks up again and his eyes sweep the neighborhood in defiance. A couple of Hmong teenagers look at the ( MUTTERS ) That's right, ain't she pretty. Walt drops down heavily into an old lawn chair and pops open a can of Pabst.
WALT: ( MUTTERS ) That's right, ain't she pretty. Walt drops down heavily into an old lawn chair and pops open a can of Pabst.
SPIDER: Hey, cuz. What's up?
TAO: What are you doing here?
SPIDER: Be happy. We've got good news.
PAGE 27: Oh really? What's that?
SUE: Oh really? What's that?
SMOKIE: We're giving you another shot.
TAO: I don't think so.
SMOKIE: You blew it the first time. We've got another little inauguration planned for you. This time there'll be no mistakes.
SUE: Another big, tough gangbanger with ‘little-man' complex. Smokie leers at Sue. It makes her uncomfortable.
SMOKIE: I got my eye on you too, little Come on, Tao. Let's go. Tao says nothing. He looks at the ground.
SUE: Come on, Tao. Let's go. Tao says nothing. He looks at the ground.
SMOKIE: Come on, Tao. Let's go. Tao says nothing. He looks at the ground.
SPIDER: He said, let's go.
SMOKIE: Come on, man. Nobody's gonna get hurt. We'll take care of you.
SUE: Don't go, Tao.
SMOKIE: You mind your own business, girl. Two Hmong gangbangers grab Tao by the arms. The front door swings open and there stands a glaring ( SUBTITLED ) Leave my grandson alone!
PHONG: ( SUBTITLED ) Leave my grandson alone!
PAGE 28: I know what you are. Go away and don't come back.
SMOKIE: That old woman's got bigger balls than you. You always let little girls and old ladies fight for Tao tries to squirm away. Smokie grabs him by the hair and opens his coat to reveal the PISTOL in his belt.
SMOKIE: I'm not gonna say it again. Let's go. Now. Tao is shoved towards the car. Suddenly Sue jumps on the back of one of the gangbangers and knocks him to the ground. Tao breaks Run, Tao, run! Sue is slapped to the ground.
SUE: Run, Tao, run! Sue is slapped to the ground.
SUE: Tao is tackled by Smokie and punched in the face. Tao's mother comes out the front door. Smokie and Spider pull Tao towards the car as the other gangbangers keep Mom, Grandma and Sue at bay. A middle-aged Hmong Man from across the street comes into the yard. All the gangbangers overreact and pull their pistols. The middle-aged Hmong Man gets in Spider's face and is cracked across the jaw with a pistol barrel. Tao back-pedals away from Spider and Smokie. It becomes a pushing, rolling, surging melee. This mess boils over and spills into Walt's front yard.
RUN!!: Tao is tackled by Smokie and punched in the face. Tao's mother comes out the front door. Smokie and Spider pull Tao towards the car as the other gangbangers keep Mom, Grandma and Sue at bay. A middle-aged Hmong Man from across the street comes into the yard. All the gangbangers overreact and pull their pistols. The middle-aged Hmong Man gets in Spider's face and is cracked across the jaw with a pistol barrel. Tao back-pedals away from Spider and Smokie. It becomes a pushing, rolling, surging melee. This mess boils over and spills into Walt's front yard.
PAGE 29: And before anyone can blink, WALT has the muzzle of his big 30-06 M1 Garand Rifle pointing at Smokie's face.
WALT: Get off my lawn.
SMOKIE: Listen, old man, you don't want.
WALT: I said get off my lawn. Now. Walt's calm demeanor is unnerving to the gangbangers. The guns in their hands seem tiny compared to the big military rifle Walt holds.
SMOKIE: Are you fucking crazy? Go back in your house, old man.
WALT: Get off my lawn.
SMOKIE: I'm not fucking around, Gramps. Walt spits out the side of his mouth. He grins.
WALT: Don't think for a second I won't blow a big hole in your face and it won't bother me a bit, not any more than if I shot a deer. Now get off my goddamned lawn. Two of the Hmong gangbangers take a step back. Walt senses their fear. Only Smokie holds his ground.
WALT: Believe me, kid, I'll blow your damn head off, go back to bed and sleep like a baby. I couldn't care less.
SMOKIE: I'm not gonna warn you again! Walt laughs.
WALT: You're nothing to me. In Korea, we stacked fucks like you five feet high and used you as ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 30 Complete silence, there's no sound anywhere in the neighborhood. All eyes are on Walt. Walt CLICKS OFF the safety on the M1 Garand Rifle. Smokie and the gangbangers give Walt fierce looks, but melt back towards their car. As they get into the car Smokie has to say something.
PAGE 30: Complete silence, there's no sound anywhere in the neighborhood. All eyes are on Walt. Walt CLICKS OFF the safety on the M1 Garand Rifle. Smokie and the gangbangers give Walt fierce looks, but melt back towards their car. As they get into the car Smokie has to say something.
SMOKIE: You better watch yourself, old The Honda screeches its tires and goes off down the Walt looks at Tao, Sue, Mom and Grandma who stand in stunned silence in his front yard. A PAUSE. Finally, Sue speaks up.
SUE: Thank you. Walt lowers his rifle and spits on the ground.
WALT: I said get off my lawn.
WALT: Bad dog. Bad deaf, dumb, blind CONTINUED: ( 2 ) PAGE 31 EXT. WALT'S HOUSE - DAY Walt carries three big bouquets of flowers to the trash. He dumps them on top of other gifts he received from the Hmongs. His garbage is overflowing. Coming down the alley is another Hmong couple, they smile carrying a basket filled with Asian vegetables. Walt holds up his hand like a traffic cop.
PAGE 31: EXT. WALT'S HOUSE - DAY Walt carries three big bouquets of flowers to the trash. He dumps them on top of other gifts he received from the Hmongs. His garbage is overflowing. Coming down the alley is another Hmong couple, they smile carrying a basket filled with Asian vegetables. Walt holds up his hand like a traffic cop.
WALT: No. No more. The Hmong couple nod, say something with a smile and turn NEXT DOOR Tao, his mother and Sue argue in the yard. They gesture towards Walt's house. The women buzz around Tao, all speaking in his ear at the same time. Phong yells at them from the porch, but they ignore her. Walt watches as the mother and Sue march Tao towards his house. Tao looks like a whipped dog.
NEXT DOOR: Tao, his mother and Sue argue in the yard. They gesture towards Walt's house. The women buzz around Tao, all speaking in his ear at the same time. Phong yells at them from the porch, but they ignore her. Walt watches as the mother and Sue march Tao towards his house. Tao looks like a whipped dog.
WALT: Why won't these people leave me Walt walks out to meet them at his property line and puts up his hands, indicating they've come far enough. Sue holds up a plant.
SUE: We brought you some shallots to plant in your garden.
WALT: I don't want them.
SUE: They're perennials, they come back every year.
WALT: No. You keep them. Why do you people keep giving me all this Sue is a little taken aback.
PAGE 32: Because. because you saved Tao.
SUE: Because. because you saved Tao.
WALT: No, I didn't. All I did was get a bunch of jabbering gooks off my Well, you're a hero to the No, I'm not.
SUE: Well, you're a hero to the No, I'm not.
WALT: No, I'm not.
SUE: Too bad, they think you are and that's why they're bringing you the gifts.
WALT: Just take your plant and leave me Walt turns and starts to walk away. Tao's mother speaks rapidly in Hmong to Sue. They look at Tao and then to Walt.
SUE: There's another thing.
WALT: This is my mother, Vu, I'm Sue and this is my brother, Tao. We live next door.
SUE: This is my mother, Vu, I'm Sue and this is my brother, Tao. We live next door.
WALT: Tao is here to apologize. Sue shoots a hard look at Tao, who shifts uncomfortably.
SUE: Tao is here to apologize. Sue shoots a hard look at Tao, who shifts uncomfortably.
TAO: I'm sorry.
WALT: For what?
PAGE 33: For trying to steal your car. Walt's eyes go wide in recognition. He turns white with Get this straight, I see you on my property again, you're done. Walt turns on his heels and storms into his house.
TAO: For trying to steal your car. Walt's eyes go wide in recognition. He turns white with Get this straight, I see you on my property again, you're done. Walt turns on his heels and storms into his house.
WALT: Get this straight, I see you on my property again, you're done. Walt turns on his heels and storms into his house.
FATHER JANOVICH: Good afternoon, Walt. Walt's eyes narrow.
FATHER JANOVICH: I mean, Mr. Kowalski.
WALT: I already told you I'm not going to confession.
FATHER JANOVICH: Why didn't you just call the FATHER JANOVICH I do work with some of the Hmong gangs and I heard there was some trouble in the neighborhood. Why didn't you call the police?
WALT: FATHER JANOVICH I do work with some of the Hmong gangs and I heard there was some trouble in the neighborhood. Why didn't you call the police?
FATHER JANOVICH: I do work with some of the Hmong gangs and I heard there was some trouble in the neighborhood. Why didn't you call the police?
WALT: Oh, I prayed for them to show up, but guess what? No answer.
FATHER JANOVICH: What were you thinking? Someone could have been killed. We're talking life and death here.
PAGE 34: Not that it's any of your goddamned business, but when things happen quickly like that, you have to react. In Korea, we never ‘called the police' when a swarm of screaming gooks came pouring into our lines. We FATHER JANOVICH We're not in Korea, Mr. Kowalski. Walt says nothing.
WALT: Not that it's any of your goddamned business, but when things happen quickly like that, you have to react. In Korea, we never ‘called the police' when a swarm of screaming gooks came pouring into our lines. We FATHER JANOVICH We're not in Korea, Mr. Kowalski. Walt says nothing.
FATHER JANOVICH: We're not in Korea, Mr. Kowalski. Walt says nothing.
FATHER JANOVICH: I've been thinking about our discussion on life and death. About what you said. About how you carry around the horrible things you were forced to do. Horrible things that won't leave you. It seems that it would do you good to unload some of that burden. Things done during war are terrible, being ordered to kill, killing to save others, killing to save yourself. You're right, those are things I don't know anything about. But I do know about forgiveness. And I've seen a lot of men who have confessed their sins, admitted their guilt and left their burdens behind them. Stronger men than you. Men at war who were ordered to do appalling things and are now at peace. Walt nods. Father Janovich threw a bull's-eye. Almost.
WALT: I'm impressed. You came with your guns loaded, for once.
FATHER JANOVICH: Thank you.
WALT: You have balls, Father. And what you said, you're right. I'm sure stronger men than me have found their salvation. Hallelujah. But there's one thing you're way wrong ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 35 FATHER JANOVICH What's that, Mr. Kowalski?
PAGE 35: FATHER JANOVICH What's that, Mr. Kowalski?
FATHER JANOVICH: What's that, Mr. Kowalski?
WALT: The thing that haunts a guy is the stuff he wasn't ordered to do.
BARBER: There, you look like a human being again. You shouldn't wait so long between haircuts, you cheap I'm just amazed that you're still alive. I keep hoping you'll die and they'll get someone good in here, but you just hang in there, you dumb, Italian-Wop-Dago, you.
WALT: I'm just amazed that you're still alive. I keep hoping you'll die and they'll get someone good in here, but you just hang in there, you dumb, Italian-Wop-Dago, you.
BARBER: That'll be ten dollars, Walt.
WALT: Ten dollars? Jesus Christ, Martin, you keep raising the price. You sure you're not part Martin the Barber laughs at Walt.
BARBER: It's been ten bucks for the last five years and you know it, you thick-skulled, old Pollack son of a bitch.
WALT: Here's ten, keep the change.
BARBER: See you in three weeks, you prick.
WALT: If you live that long, dipshit. Walt and Martin shake hands and Walt walks out.
PAGE 36: EXT. BARBERSHOP - SAME TIME Walt gets in his old Ford pickup and drives off. This is a very bad, rundown neighborhood.
TREY: Yo, it's cool, dog.
PAGE 37: TALL BLACK GUY What the fuck are you doing in my neighborhood, boy?
TREY: Nothing. We're going to Red Roost to get some CDs. That place is trippin', bro.
TREY: Nothing. No.
TREY: TALL BLACK GUY This Oriental yummy for me? Don't worry, I'll take good care of her.
SUE: Great, another asshole with a fetish for Asian girls. God, it gets so old.
SUE: My name? It's ‘take your crude, overly obvious come-on to every woman who walks past and cram it.' That's my name.
SUE: Oh, of course, right to the stereotype thesaurus. Call me ‘whore' and ‘bitch' in the same ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 38 The Tall Black Guy grabs Sue by the arm. Trey moves slightly towards Sue and is pushed down into a pile of TALL BLACK GUY You think you're pretty funny, don't you?
PAGE 38: The Tall Black Guy grabs Sue by the arm. Trey moves slightly towards Sue and is pushed down into a pile of TALL BLACK GUY You think you're pretty funny, don't you?
SUE: What, are you gonna hit me now? That'd pretty much complete the The Tall Black Guy pushes Sue hard against the wall.
WALT: You. and your buddies. What's the matter with you? Don't any of you work? I see you lazy show- offs in the middle of the day, slowly walking across the street or harassing women. Nobody owes you bastards anything so go out and get a job instead of pushing little girls around, for Christ's TALL BLACK GUY Why don't you get the fuck out of here, while I'll still let you.
WALT: What makes you spooks think you can bully a couple kids with TALL BLACK GUY What?! Are you fucking crazy?
PAGE 39: Look at me, Slick. You're crazy if you thinking I'm fooling TALL BLACK GUY You are fucking crazy.
WALT: Look at me, Slick. You're crazy if you thinking I'm fooling TALL BLACK GUY You are fucking crazy.
WALT: You have to be pretty goddamned dumb to think you can push people around without running into someone who will push back. The black guys are a bit dumbfounded. Walt stares them But you might just be dumb enough not to recognize that your luck just ran out. All bravado drains away from the black guys. Walt is a Walt grins slightly and spits on the ground.
WALT: But you might just be dumb enough not to recognize that your luck just ran out. All bravado drains away from the black guys. Walt is a Walt grins slightly and spits on the ground.
TREY: Man, thanks a lot, mister. Walt doesn't extend a hand, he lets Trey stand there like an idiot. Trey slowly lowers his arm. Walt looks at Trey's outfit.
WALT: Go home, clown. and pull up your goddamned pants. Walt turns to Sue.
WALT: Come on, I'll give you a ride.
PAGE 40: INT. WALT'S TRUCK - DRIVING Walt and Sue drive in silence. Finally Sue speaks up.
SUE: So, what's with you, you have some sort of savior complex or What in the hell's the matter with you? I thought all you Asian girls were supposed to be so smart. What are you doing walking around in that neighborhood? That's how you end up in the obituaries, that is, if they can identify your body once they pull it out of the goddamned river.
WALT: What in the hell's the matter with you? I thought all you Asian girls were supposed to be so smart. What are you doing walking around in that neighborhood? That's how you end up in the obituaries, that is, if they can identify your body once they pull it out of the goddamned river.
SUE: I know, I know. Take it easy. Walt looks at her for a second. She's not ruffled at They drive.
WALT: So, that goofball back there. He's your boyfriend?
SUE: Yeah, kind of, his name is Trey.
WALT: Why in the hell would you go out with a clown like that. Why don't you date one of your. own.one of those other. Hu-mungs.
SUE: You mean, Hmong? We're Hmong, not Right. Hmong. What is a. where is Hmong or whatever? Sue laughs.
WALT: Right. Hmong. What is a. where is Hmong or whatever? Sue laughs.
SUE: Wow! You're so enlightened. Hmong isn't a place, it's a ( MORE ) ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 41 Hmong people come from different parts of Laos and Thailand and Then why are you in my neighborhood, instead of back It's a Vietnam thing. We fought on your side and when America quit, the Communists starting killing the Hmong, so we came over Walt is quiet for few seconds.
PAGE 41: Hmong people come from different parts of Laos and Thailand and Then why are you in my neighborhood, instead of back It's a Vietnam thing. We fought on your side and when America quit, the Communists starting killing the Hmong, so we came over Walt is quiet for few seconds.
WALT: Then why are you in my neighborhood, instead of back It's a Vietnam thing. We fought on your side and when America quit, the Communists starting killing the Hmong, so we came over Walt is quiet for few seconds.
SUE: It's a Vietnam thing. We fought on your side and when America quit, the Communists starting killing the Hmong, so we came over Walt is quiet for few seconds.
WALT: Why'd you pick the Midwest, for Christ's sake? There's snow on the ground near half the year. Jungle people on the frozen Hill people. We were hill people, not jungle people. Boo-ga, boo- ga, boo-ga.
SUE: Hill people. We were hill people, not jungle people. Boo-ga, boo- ga, boo-ga.
WALT: Blame the Lutherans. They brought us here.
SUE: Blame the Lutherans. They brought us here.
WALT: Still, you'd think the cold would keep all the assholes away. Sue laughs again at Walt's conscienceless racism.
SUE: Thanks for the ride.
WALT: Sure. You know, you seem okay. What the hell's the matter with your half-wit brother? He a little slow or something?
PAGE 42: Tao is actually really bright, he just doesn't know which direction to go in.
SUE: Tao is actually really bright, he just doesn't know which direction to go in.
WALT: Oh, poor Toad.
SUE: It's really common. Hmong girls over here fit in better, we adjust. The girls go to college, the boys go to jail.
WALT: Old hag, giving me the evil eye? Walt opens the paper to the TV guide section and lingers at the HOROSCOPES for a second.
WALT: Aw, what the hell. Walt reads aloud to himself.
WALT: Your birthday today; This year you have to make a choice between two life paths. Second chances come your way. Extraordinary events culminate in what might seem to be an anti-climax. Your lucky numbers are: 84, 23, 11, 78 and
WALT: What a load of crap. Walt lights up a cigarette and exhales. Walt watches as the only white woman on the block struggles to unload her groceries from her car. One of her bags rips.
PAGE 43: Three teenagers walk past and laugh at her spilled groceries. One of them makes a crude gesture behind her Christ all Friday. What's wrong with kids today? Walt gets up to go help, but before he can get to the sidewalk, another neighbor has gone over to help. It's TAO. Tao bends down and carries her bags up to her Well, I'll be damned.
WALT: Christ all Friday. What's wrong with kids today? Walt gets up to go help, but before he can get to the sidewalk, another neighbor has gone over to help. It's TAO. Tao bends down and carries her bags up to her Well, I'll be damned.
WALT: Well, I'll be damned.
MITCH: Go ahead, Dad. Open it.
WALT: What is it?
MITCH: Just open it. Walt opens the package, it's a Gopher Reaching Tool the kind that has an alligator clamp so you can pick up objects that have fallen behind the stove, etc. Walt looks at his son and daughter-in-law.
MITCH: It's a Gopher. It's so you can reach stuff. You know, it makes things easier.
KAREN: Here's one from me. KAREN slides over a another wrapped gift. Walt opens it. It's a PHONE with really big numbers for old people.
PAGE 44: It's a phone.
KAREN: It's a phone.
WALT: ( EMOTIONLESSLY ) Thank you, Karen.
KAREN: I just thought. we thought that it would. make things easier.
WALT: Yeah, I see that.
KAREN: There's nothing wrong with making things less hard on yourself.
MITCH: Karen's right, Dad. You've worked hard your whole life. Maybe you should think about taking it a little easier? Walt lights up a cigarette.
MITCH: And that's another thing, Dad. You should get rid of the coffin Walt says nothing.
MITCH: And the house, now that Mom's gone, it's got to be a lot to maintain, let alone clean. and you're all alone in here. It's worse than Walt thought. He puffs smoke.
KAREN: There's these great places now, these communities where you don't have to worry about mowing the lawn or shoveling snow. People who are like you, alert, active, but are alone and would benefit by being with other folks their own ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 45 Dad, take a look. We brought some CUT TO: EXT. WALT'S HOUSE - SECONDS LATER Mitch and Karen storm out to their Land Cruiser. Mitch carries the Gopher Grabber Tool and Karen has the big numbered phone in her hand.
PAGE 45: Dad, take a look. We brought some CUT TO: EXT. WALT'S HOUSE - SECONDS LATER Mitch and Karen storm out to their Land Cruiser. Mitch carries the Gopher Grabber Tool and Karen has the big numbered phone in her hand.
MITCH: Dad, take a look. We brought some CUT TO: EXT. WALT'S HOUSE - SECONDS LATER Mitch and Karen storm out to their Land Cruiser. Mitch carries the Gopher Grabber Tool and Karen has the big numbered phone in her hand.
MITCH: I told you, I told you this was a bad idea.
KAREN: I know, you were right.
MITCH: Son of a bitch! He just won't let anyone help him.
KAREN: Well, we tried. Now we can just drop it. No one can say we didn't To hell with him, kicking us out on his birthday?! We should've stayed home with Ashley and Josh. They knew better, they wouldn't even come. The goddamned kids are smarter than we are! Mitch screeches the tires as they take off. Walt waits for them to clear out, before coming out on the porch with a can of Pabst. Daisy comes out and lies at his feet. Walt covers his mouth as he coughs. A dime-sized circle of dark, red blood is left in the palm of his hand. Walt looks at the blood as he takes another sip of beer.
MITCH: To hell with him, kicking us out on his birthday?! We should've stayed home with Ashley and Josh. They knew better, they wouldn't even come. The goddamned kids are smarter than we are! Mitch screeches the tires as they take off. Walt waits for them to clear out, before coming out on the porch with a can of Pabst. Daisy comes out and lies at his feet. Walt covers his mouth as he coughs. A dime-sized circle of dark, red blood is left in the palm of his hand. Walt looks at the blood as he takes another sip of beer.
PAGE 46: Walt looks at a photo in his wallet, his and Dorothy's wedding photo. Walt looks down at Daisy
WALT: We miss Momma, don't we, Daisy. A vehicle pulls up to Tao's house. A party is in full Sue comes out and helps the Hmong women unload big platters of food and carry them to the house. Sue catches Walt's gaze and steps over to his porch.
SUE: Hey, Walt, what are you up to? Walt points his index finger at the can of Pabst in his We're having a barbecue. You want to come over?
SUE: We're having a barbecue. You want to come over?
WALT: What do you think?
SUE: There's tons of food.
WALT: I'll bet. Just keep your paws off my dog.
SUE: No worries, we only eat cats.
WALT: No, I'm kidding, you moron. Come on, come on over. You can be my special guest.
SUE: No, I'm kidding, you moron. Come on, come on over. You can be my special guest.
WALT: I'm fine right here. Walt reaches into the cooler for another beer. It's empty, just water and ice.
WALT: Son of a bitch.
PAGE 47: What have you had to eat today, A piece of cake and some beef Come on over and get something to eat. We've got beer, too. Walt exhales loudly
SUE: What have you had to eat today, A piece of cake and some beef Come on over and get something to eat. We've got beer, too. Walt exhales loudly
WALT: A piece of cake and some beef Come on over and get something to eat. We've got beer, too. Walt exhales loudly
SUE: Come on over and get something to eat. We've got beer, too. Walt exhales loudly
WALT: Oh, what the hell. It's my birthday, I may as well drink with strangers instead of myself. Walt gets up and walks with Sue towards her house.
SUE: Happy Birthday, Wally.
WALT: Don't call me Wally.
WALT: You do have a lot of beer, but no As they say, When in Hmong.
SUE: As they say, When in Hmong.
WALT: Ha ha. Are you sure it's okay I'm here? Everyone keeps looking at me and when I look back, they look at the ground.
SUE: It's fine. Phong appears from the crowd and points at Walt.
PAGE 48: ( SUBTITLED ) You, get out. Out of our house! ( to Sue ) What is he doing here? Walt cringes at her presence.
PHONG: ( SUBTITLED ) You, get out. Out of our house! ( to Sue ) What is he doing here? Walt cringes at her presence.
WALT: What'd she say?
SUE: She said welcome to our home.
WALT: No she didn't.
SUE: No, she didn't.
PHONG: ( SUBTITLED ) Why is this white man in our home? A man like him brings nothing, nothing but sorrow and death. Several relatives usher Phong away from Walt. The relatives are embarrassed at the outburst.
WALT: She hates me.
SUE: Yes, she hates you.
WALT: What did I do? A little Hmong girl walks past and Walt pats her on the head. Everyone in the room looks in horror at Walt.
WALT: What?! What the hell are all you fish heads looking at?! Sue looks around and then pulls Walt out of the room.
SUE: Maybe we should go in the other INT. DINING ROOM - SECONDS LATER Sue explains a few facts to Walt.
PAGE 49: A lot of the people in this house are very traditional. Number one, never touch a Hmong person on the head, not even a child. Hmong people believe that the soul resides in the head, so don't do That's dumb, but fine.
SUE: A lot of the people in this house are very traditional. Number one, never touch a Hmong person on the head, not even a child. Hmong people believe that the soul resides in the head, so don't do That's dumb, but fine.
WALT: That's dumb, but fine.
SUE: Hmong people also consider looking someone in the eye to be rude. That's why everyone looks away when you look at them.
WALT: Swell. Anything else?
SUE: Yeah, some Hmong smile or grin when they're yelled at or get into a confrontation. It's a cultural thing. It expresses embarrassment or insecurity, not that they're laughing at you.
WALT: Good God, you people are all nuts.
WALT: Hey, Sue.
SUE: You said you guys don't look you in the eye, but that guy keeps staring at me. Sue laughs and gestures to the Old Hmong Man. The Old Hmong Man steps over and nods to Walt.
WALT: You said you guys don't look you in the eye, but that guy keeps staring at me. Sue laughs and gestures to the Old Hmong Man. The Old Hmong Man steps over and nods to Walt.
PAGE 50: This is Kor Khue. He's the Lor family shaman.
SUE: This is Kor Khue. He's the Lor family shaman.
WALT: Witch doctor? Sue smiles and nods.
SUE: Something like that. The Hmong hold their clan Shaman in very high regards.
WALT: Boo-ga, boo-ga. Kor Khue says something to Sue in Hmong. She turns and translates to Walt.
SUE: Kor Khue is interested in you, he heard what you did. He says he would like to read you.
WALT: He wants to read you. Tell you your soul. It'd be rude not to allow him this, it's a great Tell Kor to be my guest, fire Sue speaks Hmong to the Shaman. The Shaman responds and sits down across from Walt. He looks at Walt for a long Walt stares straight back at him. The Shaman mumbles to Finally the Shaman turns to Sue and speaks very rapidly. As Sue translates, the Shaman watches Walt's reaction.
SUE: He wants to read you. Tell you your soul. It'd be rude not to allow him this, it's a great Tell Kor to be my guest, fire Sue speaks Hmong to the Shaman. The Shaman responds and sits down across from Walt. He looks at Walt for a long Walt stares straight back at him. The Shaman mumbles to Finally the Shaman turns to Sue and speaks very rapidly. As Sue translates, the Shaman watches Walt's reaction.
WALT: Tell Kor to be my guest, fire Sue speaks Hmong to the Shaman. The Shaman responds and sits down across from Walt. He looks at Walt for a long Walt stares straight back at him. The Shaman mumbles to Finally the Shaman turns to Sue and speaks very rapidly. As Sue translates, the Shaman watches Walt's reaction.
SUE: Kor Khue says that you think you've been disrespected. You do not live your life. Your food has no flavor. You are scared of your ( MORE ) ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 51 You stopped living years and years ago. Kor Khue says you're not at Walt looks like he's been hit by a truck. The Shaman watches Walt closely, he knows he hit the nail on the Walt looks pale. He's been spooked good. He wipes sweat from his forehead.
PAGE 51: You stopped living years and years ago. Kor Khue says you're not at Walt looks like he's been hit by a truck. The Shaman watches Walt closely, he knows he hit the nail on the Walt looks pale. He's been spooked good. He wipes sweat from his forehead.
WALT: Excuse me. Walt gets up and steps into the kitchen. He takes several deep breaths. He's pretty shook up.
WALT: Je zuz Christ. Walt looks around at all the Hmongs eating and carrying Walt sees a young man give up his seat to an Elder. Walt sees a young woman go to each of the older folks and offer tea and cookies from a tray. Walt sees a child help an old man out of the bathroom. Walt coughs hard. He wipes blood from his lips. Sue comes in and looks at Walt.
SUE: Are you okay? Walt brushes past her and goes into the bathroom.
WALT: ( to himself ) Son of a bitch. I've got more in common with these goddamned gooks than my own spoiled-rotten family.
PAGE 52: Walt looks at himself.
WALT: Happy birthday. Walt opens the bathroom door. Sue stands there with a concerned look on her face.
SUE: Are you okay?
WALT: Me? I'm fine.
SUE: You were bleeding? Walt smiles disarmingly.
WALT: I just bit my tongue. I'm fine. I'm great. Let's get some of that gook food, I'm starving.
SUE: Come on, you glutton, let's go To mingle.
WALT: To mingle.
SUE: To mingle.
WALT: I'm fine right here. I'm Come on, you said ‘not to leave you alone.'
SUE: Come on, you said ‘not to leave you alone.'
PAGE 53: INT. BASEMENT - SAME TIME Walt and Sue descend the stairway. Walt is really out of his element down with all the Hmong teenagers. And the first person he sees across the room is Tao.
WALT: Oh great.
SUE: Well, look who's over there.
WALT: What's-his-name who tried to steal my Gran Torino.
SUE: My brother Tao.
WALT: Yeah, Toad. Tao is in the corner, he avoids Walt's gaze. Sue walks over to a group of boys, leaving Walt alone. Walt doesn't know what to do with himself. He leans against the DRYER. The DRYER wobbles. Walt gets on his hands and knees. He looks under the dryer. He adjusts the short leg to balance out the He just can't help it. All the Hmong kids watch Walt, trying not to laugh at this strange white man on his hands and knees fixing a dryer during a party. Walt looks up deer in the It was wobbly, but I fixed it. It's fine now, shouldn't wobble The Hmong kids look away, covering their mouths with their hands. Walt glares at Tao, who immediately wipes the smile from his face. Sue walks over and hands Walt a drink.
WALT: It was wobbly, but I fixed it. It's fine now, shouldn't wobble The Hmong kids look away, covering their mouths with their hands. Walt glares at Tao, who immediately wipes the smile from his face. Sue walks over and hands Walt a drink.
WALT: What's this?
PAGE 54: Rice liquor. Try it.
SUE: Rice liquor. Try it.
WALT: Sue walks off. Walt sips his rice liquor and watches the interaction between the boys and girls. One particularly gorgeous young willow-wisp of a GIRL stares across the room at Tao. Tao looks back at her, but then looks away. The Girl keeps looking at Tao, smiling and twisting her Tao doesn't approach her, but three other young men do. They do their best to charm her. She's polite, but not interested, she keeps looking at Tao. Walt laughs at Tao's ineptitude, shakes his head at this wasted opportunity. Suddenly the Girl steps over to She smiles
WALT: Good question. What am I doing here? Anyways, I'm Walt.
WA XAM: Hi, Walt. I'm Wa Xam.
WALT: Wa Yum?
WA XAM: No, Wa Xam. So. what do you do?
WALT: Me? Not too much. I fix stuff I WA XAM Like what?
WA XAM: Like what?
WALT: Well, I fixed my wife's friend's sink yesterday.
PAGE 55: I drove my aunt to the doctor to straighten out her prescription. Even fixed my screen door before it was broke.
WA XAM: You're funny.
WALT: That's one thing I've never been accused of. A bastard, yes. Funny, no. Wa Xam laughs.
WA XAM: Well, have fun. I'm going to take A pleasure to meet you, Yum Yum. She laughs at Walt butchering her name and goes upstairs. The three young suitors follow her up. Tao watches her. Walt comes over to Tao, who is startled. Walt laughs.
WALT: A pleasure to meet you, Yum Yum. She laughs at Walt butchering her name and goes upstairs. The three young suitors follow her up. Tao watches her. Walt comes over to Tao, who is startled. Walt laughs.
WALT: Relax, zipper head, whatta you think I'm gonna do, shoot you? Tao looks like he wants to run away.
WALT: I wouldn't say anything either, if I was you. Walt sips his rice liquor. Walt can't help but rib Tao.
WALT: You know, I knew you were a dipshit even before the whole garage deal, but I have to say you're even worse with women than you are stealing cars, Toad.
TAO: It's Tao.
WALT: What's that?
TAO: It's Tao, not Toad. My name is CONTINUED: ( 2 ) WALT ( CONT'D ) ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 56 Good for you. Anyways, you're blowing it with that girl. Not that I give two shits about a Toad like you.
PAGE 56: Good for you. Anyways, you're blowing it with that girl. Not that I give two shits about a Toad like you.
WALT: Good for you. Anyways, you're blowing it with that girl. Not that I give two shits about a Toad like you.
TAO: You don't know what you're talking Wrong, egg roll. I completely know what I'm talking about. I know I'm not always the most pleasant person to be around, but I got the greatest woman who ever lived to marry me. I had to work at it, but I got her and it was the best thing that ever happened to me. Hands down. Walt points across the room. He sways slightly.
WALT: Wrong, egg roll. I completely know what I'm talking about. I know I'm not always the most pleasant person to be around, but I got the greatest woman who ever lived to marry me. I had to work at it, but I got her and it was the best thing that ever happened to me. Hands down. Walt points across the room. He sways slightly.
WALT: But you? You just sit there and watch as Ding Dong and Click Clack and Charlie Chan walk away with what's-her-face. She likes you, you know.
TAO: She was standing over there, orange dress, twisting her hair and smiling at you.
WALT: She was standing over there, orange dress, twisting her hair and smiling at you.
TAO: You mean Wa Xam? Walt takes a long swig off his drink and nods.
WALT: Yeah, yeah. Anyways, she likes you, I know, I talked to her. Great girl, charming girl. Love her. I love Yum Yum. But you? You just watch her walk out the door with the Three Stooges. Why? Because you're a big fat pussy! Walt drains his drink.
PAGE 57: I gotta go home. Good luck, puss- cake. You need it.
WALT: I gotta go home. Good luck, puss- cake. You need it.
WALT: No. No thanks. No more flowers. The elderly Hmong Women nod and speak rapid sentences in Hmong to Walt. He has no idea what they are saying.
WALT: No more. Please, keep your The Hmong women nod, smile and chatter away, ignoring Walt. They walk past him and set the BOUQUETS on his ( DEFEATED ) Okay, just put them on the porch. But that's it. No more.
WALT: ( DEFEATED ) Okay, just put them on the porch. But that's it. No more.
WALT: What now, Gee? Gee holds up a plate covered with tinfoil.
WALT: No. Forget it. Stop bringing me Gee scolds Walt in Hmong.
WALT: No. I've had it. Gee opens the corner of the tinfoil. Walt looks at the CONTINUED: ( 4 ) ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 58 I can't. You have to stop. Gee pulls the tinfoil off. Walt gazes at the food.
PAGE 58: I can't. You have to stop. Gee pulls the tinfoil off. Walt gazes at the food.
WALT: I can't. You have to stop. Gee pulls the tinfoil off. Walt gazes at the food.
WALT: Is that the chicken dumpling thing you brought the other day?
WALT: What now? What? Vu rambles on in Hmong. Walt looks at his watch. He looks at Sue for the translation.
SUE: Tao is here to make amends, he's here to work for you.
WALT: No he's not.
SUE: Mother says that Tao dishonored the family and now he has to work off his debt. He'll start tomorrow morning.
WALT: No. The kid is useless, I don't even want him on my property. I thought we already went over that.
SUE: It's very important to my mother that you accept. It'd be an insult to refuse.
WALT: How is this all of a sudden turned around on me? The goddamned kid tries to steal my car and somehow I'm the bad guy if I don't accept?
PAGE 59: My family is very traditional and it will very much upset them if you don't let Tao repay. Tao interrupts from the sidewalk.
SUE: My family is very traditional and it will very much upset them if you don't let Tao repay. Tao interrupts from the sidewalk.
TAO: Come on, Sue. If he doesn't want to, let's just go. Sue and Vu yell at Tao to shut up at the same time; Sue in English, Vu in Hmong.
WALT: Fine. Great. Tomorrow. Walt walks past them and into his house.
WALT: Jesus, Joseph and Mary. These Hmong broads are like badgers.
WALT: Son of a bitch, I didn't think he'd show. Walt waves Tao over. Tao barely looks at Walt.
WALT: Okay. What are you good at?
TAO: Like what?
WALT: That's what I'm asking. What are you good at?
PAGE 60: If you're gonna work for me, I have to know what you can do.
TAO: I don't know.
WALT: That's about what I expected. Okay, why don't you go over by the spruce tree and count how many birds feed at the bird feeder.
TAO: Count the birds?
WALT: Yeah, you can count? You slopes are supposed to be good at math, Yes, I can count.
TAO: Yes, I can count.
TAO: You want me to do that?
WALT: Why not?
TAO: Why not?
WALT: I want it done right, that's why.
TAO: But you've got me just standing here. What am I supposed to be doing, anyway?
WALT: Scaring away crows. Tao shoots Walt a dirty look.
PAGE 61: It's a perfect job for you, plus you people don't seem to mind squinting in the sun all day.
WALT: It's a perfect job for you, plus you people don't seem to mind squinting in the sun all day.
TAO: What do you have for me today? You want me to watch paint dry or maybe count the clouds that pass Don't get flip with me, zipper head. I ain't the one who tried to steal and don't forget it.
WALT: Don't get flip with me, zipper head. I ain't the one who tried to steal and don't forget it.
TAO: Go ahead. I don't care if you insult me and say racist things. I'll take it.
WALT: That I know. You have no teeth, kid. That's your problem. You have no balls.
TAO: Look, I'm stuck here. Why don't you give me something useful to Because unlike you I'm not useless. I maintain my property, whereas you swamp rats let your houses go to hell. Walt looks across the street at one very dilapidated Wait a minute. How long do I have you for? Tao pauses. he doesn't want to answer.
WALT: Because unlike you I'm not useless. I maintain my property, whereas you swamp rats let your houses go to hell. Walt looks across the street at one very dilapidated Wait a minute. How long do I have you for? Tao pauses. he doesn't want to answer.
WALT: Wait a minute. How long do I have you for? Tao pauses. he doesn't want to answer.
WALT: How long, Toad?
PAGE 62: ( QUIETLY ) Till next Friday. Walt laughs out loud. It makes Tao cringe.
TAO: ( QUIETLY ) Till next Friday. Walt laughs out loud. It makes Tao cringe.
WALT: Go get my ladder out of the CUT TO: EXT. NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE - SAME DAY Tao is at the top of the LADDER. Walt and the Hmong neighbor grin at him from the bottom.
WALT: When you're done caulking the siding, nail that gutter back up, I can see it right out my kitchen window, it's been bugging me for three years. The neighbor says something in Hmong to Walt.
WALT: You said it, brother.
PAGE 63: A very old Hmong man and his very young GRANDSON walk up Walt's driveway. The Grandson translates for grandpa.
GRANDSON: Grandpa says he want to know if you can have Tao clear out the big wasp nest under our porch? Walt reaches in his pocket and studies a small note pad.
WALT: I don't see why not.
WALT: Jesus Lord almighty, knock it off.
TAO: It's my last day, whatta you want me to do?
WALT: Take the day off, you've done ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 64 Tao looks disappointed, but says nothing. He nods and starts to walk away. Walt calls after him.
PAGE 64: Tao looks disappointed, but says nothing. He nods and starts to walk away. Walt calls after him.
WALT: Tao turns around. Walt wants to say something, but Nothing, never mind. Walt shuts the door.
WALT: Nothing, never mind. Walt shuts the door.
ASIAN DOCTOR: Mr. Kowalski?
WALT: That's right.
ASIAN DOCTOR: Good afternoon. I looked over your paperwork and I think we should immediately start on a full battery of tests. I feel that Wait a minute. Where's my regular doctor, where's Dr. Fellman?
WALT: Wait a minute. Where's my regular doctor, where's Dr. Fellman?
PAGE 65: ASIAN DOCTOR Dr. Fellman retired three years ago. I'm his replacement, Dr. Jesus Christ.
ASIAN DOCTOR: Dr. Fellman retired three years ago. I'm his replacement, Dr. Jesus Christ.
WALT: Jesus Christ.
ASHLEY: It's Grandpa Walt.
KAREN: Well, pick it up.
ASHLEY: You talk to him.
KAREN: I'm doing bills here.
MITCH: I'm doing bills here.
KAREN: He's your father. Ashley hands him the phone and he pushes the TALK button.
MITCH: Hello, Dad.
MITCH: I know. What's up? The CAMERA INTERCUTS BETWEEN Mitch in his huge kitchen and Walt sitting on the edge of his bed.
WALT: Um. not much, how about you?
MITCH: I'm fine, fine.
WALT: Fine. That's fine. How about the kids and Karen?
PAGE 66: Everyone is fine.
MITCH: Everyone is fine.
WALT: There is a long, uncomfortable pause. Walt looks at some Xeroxed medical pamphlets scattered on his bed.
MITCH: Well, that's good. How's. Right. I s'pose.
WALT: Well, that's good. How's. Right. I s'pose.
MITCH: Right. I s'pose.
WALT: Right. I s'pose.
MITCH: Speaking of busy, I have a lot on my plate right now, unless there's something pressing. Walt looks at a pale, blue pamphlet. Mitch looks at his housekeeping bill.
WALT: No. Nope. Another pause.
WALT: Okay then.
MITCH: Okay. Yeah, so it's not a good time right now. Why don't you call me over the weekend.
WALT: Okay, it was nice talking to you, bye, Dad. Walt hangs up. He lies down on his bed.
MITCH: Okay, it was nice talking to you, bye, Dad. Walt hangs up. He lies down on his bed.
PAGE 67: EXT. WALT'S FRONT YARD - DAY While Walt fills a bird feeder, he notices Tao next door. Tao stands, tiptoed on the top of a six-foot ladder, trying to cut a high branch with a pole saw. Walt shakes his head and walks over to Tao.
WALT: Hey, moron. Tao is startled and almost falls off the ladder.
TAO: I appreciate you're doing something on your own, but you're the only person I know dumb enough to get himself killed trimming tree branches.
WALT: I appreciate you're doing something on your own, but you're the only person I know dumb enough to get himself killed trimming tree branches.
TAO: What now?
WALT: You don't stand on the top step of a ladder and if you cut through that branch you're hacking away at, you'll end up kaput. Tao looks and sure enough a thick, black POWER LINE is five feet below the branch he's almost severed.
WALT: Go grab the extension ladder from my garage and I'll show you how to do it right, zipper head.
WALT: Looks good. Good job. Tao nods.
PAGE 68: Make sure you put the ladder back when you're done raking up the I know. I will. Walt walks back over to his porch, grabs a Pabst from the cooler and watches Tao rake. A white Honda turns the corner and drives slowly past Smokie and Spider smile menacingly at Tao as they pass.
WALT: Make sure you put the ladder back when you're done raking up the I know. I will. Walt walks back over to his porch, grabs a Pabst from the cooler and watches Tao rake. A white Honda turns the corner and drives slowly past Smokie and Spider smile menacingly at Tao as they pass.
TAO: I know. I will. Walt walks back over to his porch, grabs a Pabst from the cooler and watches Tao rake. A white Honda turns the corner and drives slowly past Smokie and Spider smile menacingly at Tao as they pass.
WALT: This kid doesn't have a chance. The Honda now slowly passes Walt's house. Walt just stands there, sipping his beer. The Honda slows to a stop and the gangbangers glare at The REAR WINDOW of the Honda opens. Walt holds out his RIGHT HAND like a GUN. He closes one eye to better “aim” his imaginary gun and moves his thumb several times as if firing. Bang bang bang. The Honda takes off. Walt watches it drive off and lights another cigarette. Walt doesn't notice, but Tao witnessed this whole interaction from his yard.
TAO: What do you know about faucets? Walt stares at him for a second and then laughs.
PAGE 69: INT. TAO'S KITCHEN - A MINUTE LATER Tao looks on as Walt turns the faucet on and off, it drips water at its base. Walt looks under the sink.
WALT: For the love of Pete.
TAO: It must be a hundred degrees in here, turn on the fan. Tao flips the switch on the CEILING FAN, the fan wobbles and shakes, it looks like it's about to fly off. Walt stares up at the fan and shakes his head.
WALT: It must be a hundred degrees in here, turn on the fan. Tao flips the switch on the CEILING FAN, the fan wobbles and shakes, it looks like it's about to fly off. Walt stares up at the fan and shakes his head.
TAO: Man, where did you get all this What are you talking about?
WALT: What are you talking about?
TAO: All the tools and stuff.
WALT: Where the hell do you think I got them, Toad? This may come as a shock to a thief, but I actually bought the things I have with money I earned.
TAO: Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's not what I meant. There's just so much shit packed in here.
WALT: You need the right tool for the right job. Every single thing here has a purpose.
PAGE 70: Okay, what's this? Tao points to a tool.
TAO: Okay, what's this? Tao points to a tool.
WALT: Post hole digger. Tao starts pointing at things on the workbench in quick succession, questioning Walt with his expression.
WALT: Hand spade. Tin snips. Nail punch. Tack hammer. Putty knife. Wire stripper. Drywall saw. Tile Silence. Walt can see something is bothering Tao, but he's too uncomfortable to speak up
WALT: I can't afford to buy all this I didn't buy all this stuff at once, blockhead. I've lived here for fifty years. A man stays in one place long enough he tends to attract a decent set of tools.
TAO: I can't afford to buy all this I didn't buy all this stuff at once, blockhead. I've lived here for fifty years. A man stays in one place long enough he tends to attract a decent set of tools.
WALT: I didn't buy all this stuff at once, blockhead. I've lived here for fifty years. A man stays in one place long enough he tends to attract a decent set of tools.
TAO: Yeah, but.
WALT: Look, kid, I think I know where you're going with this. You don't need everything to maintain a house. I'm going to let you in on a little secret. Walt rattles around his tool bench and slaps down THREE items in quick succession.
WALT: This is for you. Roll of duct tape, can of WD-40 and a pair of vise-grips. Any man who's worth a shit can do half his household jobs with these three things. In the odd chance that doesn't work out, you can borrow something.
PAGE 71: Okay. Cool. Walt coughs and covers his mouth. Both Tao and Walt see the spot of BLOOD in his hand.
TAO: Okay. Cool. Walt coughs and covers his mouth. Both Tao and Walt see the spot of BLOOD in his hand.
TAO: What's with that?
WALT: What's with what?
TAO: The blood you just coughed up. That's not good, you should see a Walt quickly changes the subject while tightening the screws that hold the fan blade to the motor hub.
WALT: So. what exactly was the deal with those guys out on my lawn that night? Who are they?
TAO: A gang. Hmong gangbangers.
WALT: I gathered that. What did they want with you?
TAO: They wanted to take me away because I blew my first You joined up with those pukes? Damn, you are a pussy. Why in the hell did you do that?
WALT: You joined up with those pukes? Damn, you are a pussy. Why in the hell did you do that?
TAO: I don't know. They were persuasive. My cousin's in the gang. They just talked me into it I guess.
WALT: Well, at least you're honest about A LONG SILENCE. Walt finishes fixing the ceiling fan.
PAGE 72: So how'd you blow your first Tao nods towards the GRAN TORINO.
WALT: So how'd you blow your first Tao nods towards the GRAN TORINO.
WALT: The Gran Torino? Tao nods. Walt laughs.
WALT: Christ all Friday.
KAREN: See you later, I'm taking the kids to the mall. Mitch never looks up from the TV.
MITCH: Yeah, fine. Just don't spend too much goddamned money.
KAREN: I will. We hear Karen and the kids exit.
MITCH: Thank God. Finally get the house to myself for once. The PHONE RINGS. Mitch looks at the Caller ID. It says; “Dad.” Mitch almost doesn't pick it up.
PAGE 73: WALT ( V.O. ) Hello? It's me, Dad. Walt.
MITCH: WALT ( V.O. ) Hello? It's me, Dad. Walt.
MITCH: Hey, Dad. What's up? The CAMERA INTERCUTS BETWEEN Walt in his small kitchen and Mitch in his huge den.
WALT: Well. I. um. I'm getting the old Westinghouse up out of the Mitch mouths the word “Shit.”
MITCH: So. I got it on the dolly.
WALT: So. I got it on the dolly.
MITCH: Yeah, that'll help.
WALT: Yeah. And it's a bit heavy. for one guy.
MITCH: Yeah. I need a hand.
WALT: Yeah. I need a hand.
MITCH: So are you busy?
WALT: So are you busy?
MITCH: Does it have to be done right this second? It's been down there for Well. Yeah, I'd like to get on ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 74 Does it work? We were thinking about getting a freezer. What are you going to do with it?
WALT: Well. Yeah, I'd like to get on ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 74 Does it work? We were thinking about getting a freezer. What are you going to do with it?
PAGE 74: Does it work? We were thinking about getting a freezer. What are you going to do with it?
MITCH: Does it work? We were thinking about getting a freezer. What are you going to do with it?
WALT: Giving it to Aunt Mary.
MITCH: Oh. Can't she give you a hand?
WALT: She's eighty-one.
MITCH: I know, I was joking. What does she need it for?
WALT: To freeze food. Mitch opens another beer.
MITCH: Yeah, well, I'd love to help you out, Dad, but I'm just walking out the door. I have to bring the kids to the mall. Sorry.
WALT: Why don't you call Stevie?
MITCH: Why don't you call Stevie?
WALT: Your brother lives out of state.
MITCH: Well, I don't know what to tell you, I'm on my way out. Keys in my hand.
WALT: Okay then.
MITCH: If you can't find anyone by next week, give me a call. Walt nods and hangs up. Mitch hangs up and takes a sip of beer.
PAGE 75: Aunt Mary. Like she needs a INT. TAO'S HOUSE The doorbell rings and Tao opens the door. There stands Walt. Tao is a little shocked.
MITCH: Aunt Mary. Like she needs a INT. TAO'S HOUSE The doorbell rings and Tao opens the door. There stands Walt. Tao is a little shocked.
WALT: You got a minute, Toad?
WALT: I just need a little push. All the weight is up top, so you stay down and give me a little shove at each step.
TAO: Let me take the top.
WALT: Naw, I got it.
TAO: No really, I'll take the top. It looks pretty heavy.
WALT: I'm not crippled. I got it.
TAO: If you don't let me take the top, I ain't helping. I'll go home.
WALT: Listen, zipper head, now's not the time to go and.
TAO: You listen, old man. You came and got me because you needed help, so let me help you. Either it's top or I'm out of here. Walt studies Tao for a second. Tao doesn't blink, he holds his ground. Walt nods, trying not to grin.
PAGE 76: Okay then, be my guest. Just don't let it slip out of your little girl hands and crush me. Tao laughs.
WALT: Okay then, be my guest. Just don't let it slip out of your little girl hands and crush me. Tao laughs.
TAO: Don't give me any ideas.
TAO: That thing weighs a ton.
WALT: Yeah, but it runs like new. They don't make them like that anymore.
TAO: What are you going to do with it?
WALT: Sell it. I haven't used it in years and it was always in the way down there.
TAO: How much?
WALT: Oh, I don't know. Sixty bucks, maybe. Why, you need a freezer?
TAO: ( NODS ) Our downstairs one died. Walt thinks for a second.
WALT: Twenty-five and it's yours.
TAO: Twenty-five? You just said sixty?
WALT: Save me from wasting money on putting an ad in the paper.
PAGE 77: EXT. WALT'S PORCH - DAY Walt and Sue sit eating Laab as they watch Tao, who washes and waxes the Gran Torino in Walt's driveway. Sue laughs and shakes her head.
SUE: Kind of ironic, huh?
WALT: What the hell do you think I'm referring to? Toad washing the car he tried to steal from you.
SUE: What the hell do you think I'm referring to? Toad washing the car he tried to steal from you.
WALT: It seems like justice to me. And if he misses a spot, he's doing it all over.
SUE: It's nice of you to kind of look after him like this. He doesn't have any real role models in his I ain't a role model.
WALT: I ain't a role model.
SUE: You're a good man, Wally. I wish our dad would have been more like Don't call me Wally.
WALT: Don't call me Wally.
SUE: No, I'm serious. He was hard on us, really traditional, really old I'm old school.
WALT: I'm old school.
SUE: Yeah, but you're American.
WALT: What's that supposed to mean? Sue shrugs him off. They look at Tao for awhile.
PAGE 78: You like him, don't you?
SUE: You like him, don't you?
WALT: Him? Don't be crazy. He tried to steal my car.
SUE: And you spend time with him and you teach him how to fix things and you saved him from that fuck cousin of ours and.
WALT: Hey. Watch the language.
SUE: And you're a good man.
WALT: Hand me a beer, Dragon Lady. Sue hands him a beer and Walt pops the top.
WALT: So tell me the problem with Hmong boys again. I'm not completely Hmong girls slip in and out of the culture more easily. Date who we want, stay close to our mothers, but are able to keep a foot on each side of the fence. The boys fall through the cracks.
SUE: Hmong girls slip in and out of the culture more easily. Date who we want, stay close to our mothers, but are able to keep a foot on each side of the fence. The boys fall through the cracks.
WALT: It's tough. The boys float around. The fathers belong in a totally different world and the boys have no one to turn to. Does that make sense?
SUE: It's tough. The boys float around. The fathers belong in a totally different world and the boys have no one to turn to. Does that make sense?
WALT: Not sure. No.
SUE: The boys don't ask their fathers for advice, because over here, their fathers no longer have the ( MORE ) ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 79 Hmong boys become almost invisible, they end up banding together and it all goes to hell from there.
PAGE 79: Hmong boys become almost invisible, they end up banding together and it all goes to hell from there.
WALT: The girls go to college and the boys go to jail.
SUE: It's more common than not. Walt reflects on this for awhile, then changes the You still going out with that No. I dumped him. He was a dim- Walt nods.
WALT: You still going out with that No. I dumped him. He was a dim- Walt nods.
SUE: No. I dumped him. He was a dim- Walt nods.
WALT: Good girl.
TAO: You know, the Hmong consider gardening to be women's work.
WALT: Is that why I see you out in your garden all the time? Besides, zipper head, we ain't in Hu-Mong.
TAO: Walt lights a cigarette.
TAO: You should quit those. It's bad for you.
WALT: So is joining a gang, you dipshit.
PAGE 80: Seriously, you should quit, I saw you cough up blood.
TAO: Seriously, you should quit, I saw you cough up blood.
WALT: So, you ever think about what you want to do with your life?
TAO: I don't know.
WALT: You've never thought about it?
TAO: Of course I have.
WALT: Well, while you're thinking about it, try not to stomp all over my chives, you dipshit. Tao looks down; sure enough, he's standing on Walt's Put some mulch around the Tao spreads more mulch.
TAO: Put some mulch around the Tao spreads more mulch.
WALT: Put some mulch around the Tao spreads more mulch.
TAO: I was thinking about sales, maybe.
WALT: My oldest son's a salesman. He sells cars.
TAO: Does he do well?
WALT: License to steal. I worked in a Ford plant for thirty years and my son sells goddamned Japanese cars.
TAO: You made cars?
PAGE 81: That's right. And I put the steering column in the Gran Torino when it rolled down the line in
WALT: That's right. And I put the steering column in the Gran Torino when it rolled down the line in
TAO: Wow, that's cool.
WALT: It is, isn't it?
TAO: Does your son come over much?
WALT: How are you going about getting into sales? You thinking about Well, you should.
TAO: Well, you should.
WALT: Well, you should.
TAO: School costs money.
WALT: Maybe you should get a job and save instead of spreading mulch in my garden.
TAO: Maybe you could just pay me.
WALT: That's funny.
TAO: What kind of job could I get?
WALT: Good question. Who the hell would hire you?
TAO: ( DEFLATED ) Yeah, I know.
WALT: Aw, go on. I'm kidding. You could get a job, easy.
PAGE 82: Like what?
TAO: Like what?
WALT: I'd think about construction.
TAO: Me? Construction? What, do you have Alzheimer's or something?
WALT: Naw, you could hack it. You just need a little adjustment.
TAO: You said yourself I'm worthless and I have soft little girl hands.
WALT: That's exactly the point. I know some guys in the trades, but you have to get your shit together. We have to man you up a bit.
TAO: Man me up?
WALT: Yes. And you should ask out Yum Yum too.
WALT: You have to learn how guys talk. Now watch how me and Martin communicate. We just throw it back and forth. You ready?
TAO: Okay, let's go in. Walt holds the door for Tao and they enter. The Barber has his feet up reading a Playboy.
WALT: Okay, let's go in. Walt holds the door for Tao and they enter. The Barber has his feet up reading a Playboy.
BARBER: Oh great, a Pollack and a chink.
PAGE 83: Afternoon, Martin, you dumb Italian prick.
WALT: Afternoon, Martin, you dumb Italian prick.
BARBER: Walt, you cheap asshole, I should have known you'd come in, I was having such a pleasant day.
WALT: Why, did you jew some blind man out of a few bucks, give him the wrong change? Walt and the Barber shake hands warmly. Tao is wide- Who's the Nip?
BARBER: Who's the Nip?
WALT: This is Tao. He's a pussy kid who lives next door and I'm trying to man him up a little. Walt points at Tao.
WALT: Did you see? That's how men talk to each other.
TAO: They do?
BARBER: What, do you have shit in your Okay. You go out, come back in and give it a try.
WALT: Okay. You go out, come back in and give it a try.
TAO: Come on, Walt.
WALT: I said go out there, come back in and talk to the barber like a man. Do it. Tao shrugs, goes outside, lets the door shut then comes back in. The Barber stands there with a sneer on his ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 84 Wus up, you old Italian prick? The Barber levels a sawed-off SHOTGUN at Tao.
PAGE 84: Wus up, you old Italian prick? The Barber levels a sawed-off SHOTGUN at Tao.
TAO: Wus up, you old Italian prick? The Barber levels a sawed-off SHOTGUN at Tao.
BARBER: Get outta my shop before I blow your head off, you long-haired faggy little gook! Tao is terrified, frozen stiff. Walt and the Barber throw their heads back and laugh. The Barber lowers the shotgun.
WALT: Jesus Christ, Toad, you don't walk in and insult a guy. What are you, an idiot?
TAO: But. but that's what you said. That's what you said men say.
WALT: Not if you never met the guy. If you say that shit to the wrong stranger, they'll blow your goddamned gook head off! Walt and the Barber laugh again.
TAO: What should I have said?
WALT: Anything but that.
BARBER: Kid, you shoulda just started with ‘Hi' or ‘Hello.'
WALT: Right. You should have said, ‘Excuse me, I'm looking for a haircut if you have time.'
BARBER: Yeah. Be polite, but don't kiss Or, even better is act like you just got off a construction job.
WALT: Or, even better is act like you just got off a construction job.
PAGE 85: Or bitch about your girlfriend or getting your car fixed.
BARBER: Right. Son of a bitch, I just got my brakes fixed and those sons a bitches really nailed me. Screwed me right in the ass.
WALT: Exactly. Don't swear at the guy you're talking to, swear about another guy who ain't there. My son of a bitch prick fucking boss made me work overtime and he knew I had bowling tonight.
BARBER: Or, my old lady bitches to me for two fucking hours about how they don't take expired coupons at the grocery store and the minute I turn on the goddamned game, she starts crying how we never talk.
WALT: See? You come back in, Toad. Be polite and then you bring up something you can both talk about. It ain't rocket science.
TAO: Yeah, but I don't have a job or a car or a girlfriend. Walt and the Barber laugh.
BARBER: Sweet Jesus, I shoulda blown his head off when I had the chance.
WALT: Just go back outside and try it again. And don't mention you're a pussy with no car, girl, job, future or whatever. Come in and act like a man, Toad. Tao goes out, turns around and comes back in.
TAO: Excuse me, sir, I need a haircut, if you ain't too busy. you Italian son-of-a-bitch prick CONTINUED: ( 3 ) WALT ( CONT'D ) ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 86 Walt and the Barber laugh.
PAGE 86: Walt and the Barber laugh.
TAO: Boy does my ass hurt from all the guys at my construction job. Walt and the Barber laugh harder.
WALT: If you do this, you're going to follow through, right?
TAO: Yeah, yeah.
WALT: No, not yeah, yeah. Yes, as in yes, sir, I'll do my best.
TAO: Yes, I'll do my best.
WALT: You better, because when I vouch for someone, it's my word and I don't want anyone making me look No, I'm good. I'm totally into And don't lay down to people all the time. Always look a person in the eye. When you shake a man's hand, you can usually tell where you stand with him. Walt hands a pair of beat-up WORK GLOVES to Tao.
TAO: No, I'm good. I'm totally into And don't lay down to people all the time. Always look a person in the eye. When you shake a man's hand, you can usually tell where you stand with him. Walt hands a pair of beat-up WORK GLOVES to Tao.
WALT: And don't lay down to people all the time. Always look a person in the eye. When you shake a man's hand, you can usually tell where you stand with him. Walt hands a pair of beat-up WORK GLOVES to Tao.
WALT: Here, stuff these in your back Just don't blow this.
TAO: Just don't blow this.
WALT: Just don't blow this.
PAGE 87: Walt and Tao walk up to the Superintendent's Office Trailer on a construction job site.
WALT: Kennedy, you drunken Irish goon, how the hell are ya?
KENNEDY: Shitty, but who's gonna listen?
WALT: Not me. Walt pours himself a cup of the bad job-site coffee.
KENNEDY: Help yourself, Walt, you dumb I already did. This is the kid I told you about. Tao, this is Tim Kennedy, he's the super on the Kennedy looks Tao up and down. Tao looks him in the eye.
WALT: I already did. This is the kid I told you about. Tao, this is Tim Kennedy, he's the super on the Kennedy looks Tao up and down. Tao looks him in the eye.
KENNEDY: What do we got, Walt?
WALT: He's done construction here and there. Whatever you need, he'll pick it up quick.
KENNEDY: You sure?
WALT: You speak English?
KENNEDY: You speak English?
TAO: Yes, sir.
KENNEDY: You born here?
PAGE 88: You bet.
TAO: You bet.
KENNEDY: You got a vehicle? I see Walt drove you here.
TAO: Not at the moment. I'm taking the bus for now.
KENNEDY: The bus? Jesus Christ, you don't have a car?
TAO: My headgasket cracked and the goddamned prick at the shop wants to bend me over for $2100.
KENNEDY: I just replaced the tranny in my Tahoe and the sons a bitches fucked me hard, just under $3200.
TAO: Goddamned thieves. It ain't You got that right. Come on in on Monday and we'll find something for you to do. Tao puts out his hand to shake.
KENNEDY: You got that right. Come on in on Monday and we'll find something for you to do. Tao puts out his hand to shake.
TAO: Thanks, Mr. Kennedy. Tim Kennedy shakes Tao's hand.
KENNEDY: It's Tim. What's your name again?
TAO: Okay. You owe me one, Walt.
KENNEDY: Okay. You owe me one, Walt.
WALT: I'll send you a fucking fruitcake at Christmas.
PAGE 89: Fuck the fruitcake, why don't you hand over the keys to that Gran Yeah, everybody seems to want that I bet.
KENNEDY: Fuck the fruitcake, why don't you hand over the keys to that Gran Yeah, everybody seems to want that I bet.
WALT: Yeah, everybody seems to want that I bet.
KENNEDY: I bet.
WALT: You don't know the half of it. Come on, zipper head, let's let this big Mick get back to screwing Walt and Tao exit and walk back to the truck.
TAO: What are we doing?
WALT: What are you gonna put all your tools in, an empty rice bag?
WALT: You'll need this. Walt then tosses Tao a utility knife holder.
WALT: And you'll need that. Now where the hell do they hide the hardware I can't afford any of this.
TAO: I can't afford any of this.
WALT: I'll get it, but you're paying me back with your first check.
PAGE 90: Walt pitches a hardware pouch at Tao.
TAO: Walt pitches a hardware pouch at Tao.
WALT: And you need this too. That should about do it.
TAO: Not to bitch, but won't I be needing some tools?
WALT: Tools I got, but I ain't loaning you my tool belt. You can buy tools as you go.
TAO: I appreciate all this.
WALT: Aw, forget it.
TAO: No, I really do. Thank you. Walt sticks out his jaw and looks Tao straight in the eye. Tao doesn't know what to expect. A PAUSE. Walt puts out his HAND to Tao. Tao extends his and they SHAKE HANDS. It's really quite a moment for both of them.
TAO: What now?
SPIDER: Just seeing what you're up to, ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 91 I'm getting home from work, not that you guys would know much about that.
PAGE 91: I'm getting home from work, not that you guys would know much about that.
TAO: I'm getting home from work, not that you guys would know much about that.
SPIDER: So it's true? You got a job.
TAO: Come on, what do you guys want with me?
SMOKIE: Jesus Christ, Tao. What do you think? I've been sooooo easy on you, but I can't just go on like nothing happened.
TAO: You can't just leave me alone?
SMOKIE: Afraid not. The gangbangers grab Tao. Tao kicks and struggles as they yank away his tool belt.
TAO: Keep your hands off my stuff.
SMOKIE: Your stuff? You and everything you have is mine. I own you. Smokie pulls the tape measure off the belt and smashes it against the pavement. Whatever tools Smokie can't destroy, he tosses onto the roof of the closest building.
SMOKIE: You can't just walk away from us, Tao. It looks bad. It makes me look bad. Smokie lights a CIGARETTE and exhales.
SMOKIE: What's the phrase I'm looking for? Oh yeah, I need to ‘save face.' Smokie grabs Tao by the neck and presses the lit CIGARETTE into Tao's cheek. Tao screams as his flesh burns.
PAGE 92: EXT. WALT'S ALLEY - MORNING Walt spots Tao as he takes out the trash.
WALT: Hey there. Tao looks to the ground and heads in the other direction.
TAO: Hey, I gotta run.
WALT: Wait a minute. Where have you been, I haven't seen you in days?
TAO: Walt squints at Tao. He steps closer. Tao looks away. Walt tilts Tao's head up, he sees the burn.
WALT: What in the hell happened to you?
TAO: Don't worry about it.
WALT: Don't worry about it? Look at your goddamned face!
TAO: I said don't worry about it. It's not your problem. Walt looks at the ground and spits.
WALT: Couple days ago. Grabbed me after I got off the bus coming home from I did everything I could possibly do. They broke some of your tools. I'll replace them.
TAO: Couple days ago. Grabbed me after I got off the bus coming home from I did everything I could possibly do. They broke some of your tools. I'll replace them.
WALT: I did everything I could possibly do. They broke some of your tools. I'll replace them.
TAO: I did everything I could possibly do. They broke some of your tools. I'll replace them.
PAGE 93: Forget the tools. Where does your cousin live?
WALT: Forget the tools. Where does your cousin live?
TAO: No, Walt, I can manage. I don't want you doing anything. Walt is angry, but eventually nods at Tao.
WALT: Alright. You need any other tools for work?
TAO: I could use a roofing hammer.
WALT: Go in the garage and get whatever you need.
WALT: That's the last of them. Walt pulls out his Colt .45 automatic and chambers a EXT. DUPLEX - SAME TIME Walt pounds loudly on the door. A moment later the door starts to swing open and a voice is heard.
PAGE 94: Walt kicks open the door and grabs Smokie by the collar. Walt drags the 105 pound Smokie out of his house and tosses him off the front porch onto the front sidewalk. Smokie is stunned. Walt kicks him hard in the ribs.
SMOKIE: How the fuck did you get here?!
WALT: You aren't that hard to track Walt boots him again. Smokie curls up in the fetal What do you want? Walt kicks him a second time.
SMOKIE: What do you want? Walt kicks him a second time.
WALT: I came to give you a chance. SOMETHING comes out of the shadows under the porch. Walt swings the barrel of the big Colt .45 at the It's a cat. Walt puts his pistol away. Smokie exhales.
WALT: It's just you and me. Nobody knows or has to know I was here. You lay off Tao. Tell your guys he ain't worth it or whatever the hell you want. You don't talk to him, you don't go near him. This is your one chance. You lay off and no one will ever be the wiser. Smokie says nothing.
WALT: I'll take that as a yes. I don't want to come back here. But if I do, believe me, it'll be goddamned Walt kicks Smokie again and stalks off into the dark.
PAGE 95: EXT. WALT'S HOUSE - SAME EVENING Walt pulls up his driveway and parks. Daisy jumps out and Walt carries his rifle into the house. Walt walks Walt gets to the door and drops his keys. When he bends down to pick them up, you can really tell he's sore and Walt groans as he goes inside. He's feeling his age.
WALT: How do you want your dog. I mean steaks cooked? Medium, medium Walt pops open a beer and grabs an appetizer that Vu Is this Hmoog or Laab?
TAO: Walt pops open a beer and grabs an appetizer that Vu Is this Hmoog or Laab?
WALT: Is this Hmoog or Laab?
SUE: Isn't it usually a little spicier? Tao, Wa Xam and Sue laugh.
WALT: Isn't it usually a little spicier? Tao, Wa Xam and Sue laugh.
SUE: Oh whatever, Wally.
WALT: It does. Usually it's got more Jesus Christ, look at you. I've never seen you like this.
SUE: Jesus Christ, look at you. I've never seen you like this.
WALT: ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 96 Look at you smile, old man. Kicking back, having a good old time. You're sure pleased with yourself today.
PAGE 96: Look at you smile, old man. Kicking back, having a good old time. You're sure pleased with yourself today.
SUE: Look at you smile, old man. Kicking back, having a good old time. You're sure pleased with yourself today.
TAO: And it's a little unnerving if you ask me.
WALT: Aw, go on.
SUE: No, admit it. You are. You're feeling pretty good, aren't you?
WALT: Well, who wouldn't? I'm surrounded by beautiful women, it's a beautiful day. Great food, good friends. Hell, even Toad isn't driving me nuts for once.
TAO: It never ends.
WALT: I'm just kidding. Let me tell you something, Yum-Yum. If Tao doesn't ask you out soon, I will.
SUE: Don't listen to him, Wa Xam. He's a white devil.
WA XAM: ( LAUGHS ) I'd love to, Walt, but he beat you to it.
WALT: I'll be damned. Movie? Dinner? Wa Xam and Tao nod. They're a bit embarrassed.
SUE: Yeah, they're taking the bus.
WALT: The bus?! That's no good. A charming young lady like this deserves to go in style.
PAGE 97: Like what? Take a limo? Walt nods towards the GRAN TORINO.
TAO: Like what? Take a limo? Walt nods towards the GRAN TORINO.
TAO: The Gran Torino? You'd let me drive it?
WALT: Sure. Why not.
TAO: Walt smiles.
WALT: They shake hands.
WALT: Is everyone okay? Is anyone hit? Sue? Vu? Tao, where's Tao? Tao sits up from behind the couch. Blood pours down his neck. He's stunned.
WALT: Oh no. Walt lays Tao down and rips open the collar of his shirt. Walt probes around Tao's neck.
PAGE 98: What. what is it?
TAO: What. what is it?
WALT: Hang on. you're just cut, is Is everybody else okay?
TAO: Is everybody else okay?
WALT: Walt looks around at the BULLET HOLES in the walls. Tao follows his gaze.
TAO: It's a miracle no one was killed.
WALT: They aimed high. Sure enough most of the bullet holes are above head level on the walls.
WALT: Where's Sue?
TAO: She went to our aunt's.
WALT: Call her.
TAO: I said call her. Get the goddamned phone and call and see if she's there. Tao scrambles for the phone and dials. Tao speaks Hmong to whomever answered. Tao starts to speak faster. He looks at Walt and shakes his head “no.” For once Vu and Phong understand what Walt was talking about. There is anguish on every face in the room.
WALT: I said call her. Get the goddamned phone and call and see if she's there. Tao scrambles for the phone and dials. Tao speaks Hmong to whomever answered. Tao starts to speak faster. He looks at Walt and shakes his head “no.” For once Vu and Phong understand what Walt was talking about. There is anguish on every face in the room.
PAGE 99: INT. TAO'S HOUSE - LATER Walt sits across from Tao, drinking rice liquor. Walt speaks loudly, without any consideration for Phong who shoots him dirty looks.
WALT: This is exactly what I didn't want. Damn gooks. Why the hell am I even here?
TAO: Maybe one of her friends called and she just changed plans. Walt sips the rice liquor. Walt now speaks quietly to In Korea I learned not to care. The best friends of my life are still missing somewhere in Korea. You harden yourself. Don't let anything get to you. Phong looks out the window and screams. She runs over and swings open the door. Everyone expects the worst. And it comes like a cold wind SUE WALKS IN LIKE A ZOMBIE. She has been brutally beaten. Her clothes are dirty and torn. BLOOD runs down SUE'S legs from under her shirt. Walt looks at her and the glass falls from his hand. Sue staggers into Vu's arms. Vu weeps. Sue hugs her mother and sobs. Tao reaches to hug his sister, but Phong screeches at him, pointing at Walt and back to Tao. Walt is destroyed. He steps outside into the dark.
WALT: In Korea I learned not to care. The best friends of my life are still missing somewhere in Korea. You harden yourself. Don't let anything get to you. Phong looks out the window and screams. She runs over and swings open the door. Everyone expects the worst. And it comes like a cold wind SUE WALKS IN LIKE A ZOMBIE. She has been brutally beaten. Her clothes are dirty and torn. BLOOD runs down SUE'S legs from under her shirt. Walt looks at her and the glass falls from his hand. Sue staggers into Vu's arms. Vu weeps. Sue hugs her mother and sobs. Tao reaches to hug his sister, but Phong screeches at him, pointing at Walt and back to Tao. Walt is destroyed. He steps outside into the dark.
WALT: No, no, no, no, no.
PAGE 100: Walt bursts in the door, throws himself in an easy chair and CRIES. He tries to stop and cries harder. It's the first time Walt has cried in fifty years. He wails, crying for Tao, Sue, his wife, kids and himself. He lets it all out. Daisy jumps in his lap and he hugs his old dog as he bawls.
FATHER JANOVICH: Mr. Kowalski, are you in here?
WALT: Come on in. Father Janovich comes in and sits down across from Walt.
FATHER JANOVICH: Are you okay? Walt nods.
FATHER JANOVICH: The police finally left. No one is talking. One thing about the Hmong, they keep their mouths I've noticed that. Father Janovich picks up a photo album and flips through it. Pictures of Mitch and Steve as babies.
WALT: I've noticed that. Father Janovich picks up a photo album and flips through it. Pictures of Mitch and Steve as babies.
WALT: You know, there's no way that Tao or Sue are gonna have any peace if these gang guys don't go away. Go away forever. You know it as well as I do.
FATHER JANOVICH: What are you saying?
PAGE 101: You heard what I said.
WALT: You heard what I said.
FATHER JANOVICH: They took Sue to the hospital. She's scared. They're all scared.
WALT: I'm not.
FATHER JANOVICH: I know that. Believe me, they all know that. Tao especially. He's sitting out there staring at your front door. You know what he expects, Mr. Kowalski.
WALT: Yeah, well what would you do if you were me? If you were Tao? What would you do? Father Janovich shakes his head.
FATHER JANOVICH: I know what I'd do if I was you, or at least what you think you should do. If I was Tao I guess I'd want vengeance. I'd want to stand shoulder to shoulder with you and kill those guys.
WALT: And you?
FATHER JANOVICH: What would I do? I'd come over here and talk to you I guess. I know you're close with these people, but this pisses me off too, Mr. Kowalski. Walt nods.
WALT: Wanna beer?
FATHER JANOVICH: I'd love one.
WALT: They're in the cooler, grab me one ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 102 Father Janovich grabs four beers, two for each of them. He opens a Pabst and takes a big swig.
PAGE 102: Father Janovich grabs four beers, two for each of them. He opens a Pabst and takes a big swig.
FATHER JANOVICH: Damn all this. It just isn't Nothing's fair, Father. Father Janovich and Walt sit for awhile.
WALT: Nothing's fair, Father. Father Janovich and Walt sit for awhile.
FATHER JANOVICH: So, what are you going to do, Mr. Call me Walt. Father Janovich nods.
WALT: Call me Walt. Father Janovich nods.
FATHER JANOVICH: Alright, what are you going to do, Not sure yet. All I do know is they don't have a goddamned INT. WALT'S KITCHEN - MORNING Walt sits at the kitchen table in his robe, drinking coffee. Tao comes in without even knocking on the door.
WALT: Not sure yet. All I do know is they don't have a goddamned INT. WALT'S KITCHEN - MORNING Walt sits at the kitchen table in his robe, drinking coffee. Tao comes in without even knocking on the door.
TAO: What are you doing?
WALT: I'm thinking.
TAO: Thinking time is over. Now it's time to knock the ass out of those I know you don't want to hear this, but you have to calm down.
WALT: I know you don't want to hear this, but you have to calm down.
TAO: CONTINUED: ( 2 ) ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 103 You have to have a clear head, otherwise mistakes get made. Back away from what's happened, Tao.
PAGE 103: You have to have a clear head, otherwise mistakes get made. Back away from what's happened, Tao.
WALT: You have to have a clear head, otherwise mistakes get made. Back away from what's happened, Tao.
TAO: No. Don't let me down, Walt. Not you. This is going to end, today. Walt stands up and pulls out a chair for Tao to sit in.
WALT: Sit down.
TAO: I don't want to sit.
WALT: I SAID SIT DOWN! Just listen up for a second and don't say Tao sits down. Walt rubs his hands together.
WALT: I know what needs to be done. I need to prepare, this needs to be carefully planned. You know I'm the right man for this. So cool down for a little while and meet me back here at 4 P.M. I promise you, what needs to be done, will be done.
TAO: I say we go now. Right now.
WALT: And do what? You want to go kill your cousin and those other Zips. Mr. Tough-Guy-All-Of-A-Sudden is out for blood. What do you even know about it? Tao is furious, but says nothing.
WALT: Trust me, Tao. Cool down and we'll meet back here at four. Tao doesn't answer.
PAGE 104: I said ‘okay?' You won't do anything without me. You meet me back here at four? Say ‘okay.'
WALT: I said ‘okay?' You won't do anything without me. You meet me back here at four? Say ‘okay.'
TAO: Tao storms out the back door. Walt pours more coffee.
WALT: I know, I know. Give me a break, it's the first time I've ever smoked in the house.
BARBER: There, all done. Ten bucks I don't suppose you still have steady enough hands to give a guy a straight shave, you withered, old Italian mummy?
WALT: I don't suppose you still have steady enough hands to give a guy a straight shave, you withered, old Italian mummy?
BARBER: You? A straight shave? You've never ordered a straight shave, That's right. I always wondered what they were like. Unless you're too goddamned busy?
WALT: That's right. I always wondered what they were like. Unless you're too goddamned busy?
PAGE 105: No, no. That's fine. Let me heat up a towel. Walt hands Martin the Barber a twenty.
BARBER: No, no. That's fine. Let me heat up a towel. Walt hands Martin the Barber a twenty.
WALT: Here's a twenty. Keep the change in case you slip and hit my INT. OLD SCHOOL MEN'S CLOTHING STORE Walt gets fitted for a new suit. The OLD TAILOR carefully measures Walt's shoulders.
WALT: So you can take it in right here?
TAILOR: Yes, sir. Take about an hour.
WALT: That's great. Thank you.
TAILOR: Yes, sir.
WALT: Never had a fitted suit.
FATHER JANOVICH: Mr. Kowalski, what can I do for I've come for confession.
WALT: I've come for confession.
FATHER JANOVICH: Oh Lord Jesus, what have you done?
WALT: Nothing. Take it easy.
FATHER JANOVICH: What are you up to?
PAGE 106: Are you going to let me confess or CUT TO: INT. CONFESSIONAL BOOTH Walt calmly sits on one side and a very nervous, sweating Father Janovich sits on the other.
WALT: Are you going to let me confess or CUT TO: INT. CONFESSIONAL BOOTH Walt calmly sits on one side and a very nervous, sweating Father Janovich sits on the other.
FATHER JANOVICH: How long has it been since your last confession?
WALT: Forever. Bless me, Father, for I have sinned.
FATHER JANOVICH: What are your sins, my son.
WALT: In 1968, I kissed Betty Jablonski at the work Christmas party. Dorothy was talking with the other wives and it just happened.
FATHER JANOVICH: Yes. Go on.
WALT: I made nine hundred dollars profit selling a boat and motor and never reported the taxes which is the same as stealing.
FATHER JANOVICH: Yes. Fine.
WALT: And lastly, I was never close to my two sons. I don't know them. I didn't know how.
FATHER JANOVICH: That's it?
WALT: Whatta you mean, ‘That's it?' It's bothered me for years.
PAGE 107: FATHER JANOVICH God loves and forgives you. Say ten ‘Hail Marys' and five ‘Our Fathers.' Are you going to retaliate for what happened to Walt says nothing. Father Janovich looks hard at Walt.
FATHER JANOVICH: God loves and forgives you. Say ten ‘Hail Marys' and five ‘Our Fathers.' Are you going to retaliate for what happened to Walt says nothing. Father Janovich looks hard at Walt.
FATHER JANOVICH: I'm going over to that house today, Mr. Kowalski.
WALT: Is that so?
FATHER JANOVICH: It is. And every other day until you see the folly in what you are I gotta go, Padre. Busy day FATHER JANOVICH Go in peace.
WALT: I gotta go, Padre. Busy day FATHER JANOVICH Go in peace.
FATHER JANOVICH: Go in peace.
WALT: I am at peace. Walt and Father Janovich shake hands. Walt exits. Father Janovich exhales loudly and drops into his chair.
FATHER JANOVICH: Je zuz Christ.
TAO: Which one do I get?
WALT: You ever fire a weapon?
PAGE 108: Tao aims the rifle at an imaginary target.
TAO: Tao aims the rifle at an imaginary target.
WALT: Put that down. I got something for you.
TAO: In Korea, October, 1952. We were sent up to sweep a Chink machine gun nest that had carved us up pretty bad. I was the only one who came back. I received the Silver Star. I want you to have When we went up that hill, we knew it was ten to one against us, but we went anyway. This trouble now, it's similar. We're walking right into it. We might not be coming home tonight.
WALT: In Korea, October, 1952. We were sent up to sweep a Chink machine gun nest that had carved us up pretty bad. I was the only one who came back. I received the Silver Star. I want you to have When we went up that hill, we knew it was ten to one against us, but we went anyway. This trouble now, it's similar. We're walking right into it. We might not be coming home tonight.
TAO: When we went up that hill, we knew it was ten to one against us, but we went anyway. This trouble now, it's similar. We're walking right into it. We might not be coming home tonight.
WALT: When we went up that hill, we knew it was ten to one against us, but we went anyway. This trouble now, it's similar. We're walking right into it. We might not be coming home tonight.
TAO: The hell we won't. We're going to roll in there and tear ass.
WALT: Don't be a fool, these guys are waiting for that exact reaction. Tao is quiet for a minute.
TAO: How many?
WALT: How many what?
TAO: How many men did you kill in Thirteen for sure. Probably more.
WALT: Thirteen for sure. Probably more.
PAGE 109: What was it like to kill a man?
TAO: What was it like to kill a man?
WALT: You don't want to know.
TAO: Why not?
WALT: Go get the Silver Star. It's in a blue wooden box in the cellar. Tao goes downstairs. He turns on the light and goes into the cellar. Tao locates a BLUE WOODEN BOX and opens it. Tao holds up the MEDAL. He looks at it closely. AND WHAM Walt slams the heavy cellar DOOR shut behind him. Walt slides the BOLT LOCK into place with a loud
TAO: What the hell are you doing?! Let me out of here, you goddamned son- Quit smashing everything. You'll never get out of there, so just You let me out, you crazy old fuck, or I will kill you when I get out of here. Tao pounds on the door. Walt pounds back with a strength and authority which startles Tao.
WALT: Quit smashing everything. You'll never get out of there, so just You let me out, you crazy old fuck, or I will kill you when I get out of here. Tao pounds on the door. Walt pounds back with a strength and authority which startles Tao.
TAO: You let me out, you crazy old fuck, or I will kill you when I get out of here. Tao pounds on the door. Walt pounds back with a strength and authority which startles Tao.
WALT: You want to know how it feels to kill a man? It feels goddamned lousy. And it feels even worse when you get a medal for bravery right after you mowed down some scared kid when he tries to give up. A dumb, scared, little gook, just about your age. I shot him with the same rifle you just held CONTINUED: ( 2 ) ( MORE ) ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 110 I've thought about that kid for fifty years. And I promise you, boy, you want no part of it. Me, I've got blood on my hands. I'm soiled. Forgive me for tricking you like a dope. I'll call someone and have them let you out No! Let me out!! Tao pounds on the door.
PAGE 110: I've thought about that kid for fifty years. And I promise you, boy, you want no part of it. Me, I've got blood on my hands. I'm soiled. Forgive me for tricking you like a dope. I'll call someone and have them let you out No! Let me out!! Tao pounds on the door.
TAO: No! Let me out!! Tao pounds on the door.
WALT: You've come a long way. I'm proud to call you a friend. You have your whole life ahead of you, whereas this is what I do. I finish things. You'd just get in the way. Sorry. Walt goes back upstairs, leaving Tao locked up in his Tao howls to be let out.
WALT: Aw, pipe down, you hag.
PHONG: ( SUBTITLED ) You're an evil man. I've seen your kind before. Back home, white soldiers came to our villages and filled our young men's minds with ideas of glory. Then you'd lead them away to their Walt, of course, has no idea what she said.
WALT: Fine, I hate you too.
PAGE 111: Walt holds out the DOG LEASH to Phong. She looks down at Daisy and back at Walt. She lashes out again in Hmong.
WALT: I need you to watch my dog. Walt holds the leash closer. Phong folds her arms in defiance. Walt exhales loudly. Walt lifts up one of the LEGS OF HER LAWNCHAIR and slips the loop of the leash underneath it so Daisy can't follow Her name is Daisy. Walt bends down on one knee and lovingly pets Daisy. He scratches her belly.
WALT: Her name is Daisy. Walt bends down on one knee and lovingly pets Daisy. He scratches her belly.
WALT: You take it easy, old gal. You good old girl. Walt gets up and walks away without looking back. Phong is stunned; she is silent for once.
WALT: Good afternoon, gentlemen.
DARREL: Walter, how are you doing?
WALTER: Never been better.
BARTENDER: Beer and a shot, Walt?
WALT: I think I'll have something Walt looks at the liquor display. At the pinnacle of bottles sits a bottle of Johnnie Walker Blue.
WALT: Think I'll try that Johnnie Walker Blue Label.
PAGE 112: The regulars all “Oooooo” and “Ahhhhhhh” at Walt's order.
MEL: Whatta ya win the lottery, Wally?
WALT: Naw, just having something Walt sips his Scotch and nods. It's good.
WALT: Why don't you get all the guys the You sure?
BARTENDER: You sure?
WALT: I'm sure. This is too good not to be shared. Walt finishes his Scotch and points for one more. Several regulars hold up their drinks towards Walt.
SUE: WALT ( V.O. ) It's Walt. The key to my front door is under the ceramic turtle. Open the door and go let your brother out of the cellar. I have to go. The line goes dead as Walt hangs up. Sue jumps up out of bed, pulls on some clothes and runs downstairs. Phong blocks her path. Phong grabs Sue by the arms.
PAGE 113: ( SUBTITLED ) Who was that? Where are you going? You tell me what's going Sue squirms away from Phong and runs outside. On her way over to Walt's house, she sees Daisy leashed to Phong's chair. It scares Sue even more.
PHONG: ( SUBTITLED ) Who was that? Where are you going? You tell me what's going Sue squirms away from Phong and runs outside. On her way over to Walt's house, she sees Daisy leashed to Phong's chair. It scares Sue even more.
OFFICER: Sorry, Father, we have to go.
FATHER JANOVICH: I'm telling you. If we're not here, there will be bloodshed.
OFFICER: We've been here for hours. We can't afford to anchor a unit to one location.
FATHER JANOVICH: I'm begging you to stay.
OFFICER: I just got word from my Sergeant, we're pulling the plug.
FATHER JANOVICH: I'm staying.
OFFICER: No you aren't. My orders are specific. You came with us, you're leaving with us. Father Janovich looks hard at the duplex before getting into the SQUAD CAR. The SQUAD CAR drives off. Walt pulls up in front, gets out of his pickup and slams the door. He looks at the duplex. It's a total eyesore.
WALT: ( MUTTERS ) What a goddamned mess. You slopes should be ashamed of yourselves.
PAGE 114: Walt walks up the sidewalk and stops twenty feet from the Six very scared, very jittery Hmong gangbangers look out at Walt from various doorways and windows.
WALT: Is that all you swamp rats or is there more vermin scurrying in the Smokie and Spider step out and stand on the porch. Smokie smiles at Walt. Walt spits on the ground.
SMOKIE: I wasn't sure that you'd.
WALT: Shut up, gook. I'm not here to listen to one goddamned syllable of what a shrimp-dicked little baby midget like you has to say. Spider pulls his PISTOL.
WALT: That's right, boy. Defend your boyfriend after he or you or whoever rapes a member of your family. Your own blood, for Christ's sake. Go ahead, pull your pistols, just like a bunch of ridiculous miniature toy cowboys. Smokie and several other Hmong gangbangers pull their You have no honor. You're the scum of the earth and when you're gone, do you think anyone will care? No one will mourn. You won't be missed. All the Hmong are spooked at Walt's absolute lack of Where's Tao, old man? He too scared to come and stick up for ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 115 No. Tao is too good for this. You pukes aren't worth one second of his time. Walt slowly puts a CIGARETTE in his mouth. Even this slight movement has the gangbangers waving their PISTOLS Walt laughs.
WALT: You have no honor. You're the scum of the earth and when you're gone, do you think anyone will care? No one will mourn. You won't be missed. All the Hmong are spooked at Walt's absolute lack of Where's Tao, old man? He too scared to come and stick up for ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 115 No. Tao is too good for this. You pukes aren't worth one second of his time. Walt slowly puts a CIGARETTE in his mouth. Even this slight movement has the gangbangers waving their PISTOLS Walt laughs.
SMOKIE: Where's Tao, old man? He too scared to come and stick up for ( CONTINUED ) PAGE 115 No. Tao is too good for this. You pukes aren't worth one second of his time. Walt slowly puts a CIGARETTE in his mouth. Even this slight movement has the gangbangers waving their PISTOLS Walt laughs.
PAGE 115: No. Tao is too good for this. You pukes aren't worth one second of his time. Walt slowly puts a CIGARETTE in his mouth. Even this slight movement has the gangbangers waving their PISTOLS Walt laughs.
WALT: No. Tao is too good for this. You pukes aren't worth one second of his time. Walt slowly puts a CIGARETTE in his mouth. Even this slight movement has the gangbangers waving their PISTOLS Walt laughs.
WALT: You boys are a little bit jumpy.
SPIDER: You watch it, old man.
WALT: No, I think you'd better watch it. Walt looks around. Other than the gangbangers, a small group of people have gathered to watch this showdown.
SUE: Tao? Tao, are you alright?
TAO: Goddamn it!
SUE: What's going on?
TAO: He left without me!
SUE: Where? Where'd he go?!
TAO: He went to Smokie's without me. Tao takes the stairs two steps at a time.
PAGE 116: No! No, Tao! Sue grabs Tao's legs and hangs on.
SUE: No! No, Tao! Sue grabs Tao's legs and hangs on.
SUE: No! Don't you dare! Stay away from them, Tao! I don't want anyone else getting hurt.
TAO: Leave me alone.
SUE: NO, TAO. NO! They struggle at the top of the stairs and spill into the kitchen floor. Tao runs for the door when something catches his eye. The kitchen table. The RIFLE and PISTOL are still there. Walt purposely left the guns at home.
TAO: Oh God! NO!!
WALT: Anybody got a light? No? I got Walt's slight grin fades. He mutters to himself.
WALT: Hail Mary, full of grace. Walt reaches into his coat pocket. Six Hmong gangbangers simultaneously level their PISTOLS and FIRE. BULLETS FLY. Walt is struck down. People scream. Walt falls dead. A ZIPPO lighter clutched in his hand. Walt never intended to kill anyone. Self-sacrifice.
PAGE 117: EXT. SMOKIE'S DUPLEX - LATER Tao and Sue arrive just as Smokie, Spider and company are being driven away in Police cars. Tao looks at Smokie in the squad car. Smokie no longer looks tough or hard, he just looks scared. On the street, Walt is being bagged by the ambulance crew. Father Janovich prays over him. Tao steps up to a POLICE OFFICER.
TAO: What happened?
POLICE OFFICER: You have to step back.
TAO: He was a friend of mine.
POLICE OFFICER: I said step back. Tao turns to the HMONG POLICE OFFICER.
TAO: What happened, man? The Hmong Police Officer looks at the WHITE POLICE OFFICER and then to Tao.
TAO: ( SUBTITLED ) Please, man, it's important. He's my friend. Tell me what happened?
TAO: ( SUBTITLED ) What's going to happen?
PAGE 118: HMONG POLICE OFFICER ( SUBTITLED ) We actually have witnesses for once. These guys are going away big time. The WHITE OFFICER yells at the HMONG OFFICER.
POLICE OFFICER: Officer Chang, get those people HMONG POLICE OFFICER Yes, sir. You have to step back Tao hugs his sister. Sue openly weeps. Tao holds it in. He looks at his friend Walt as the bag is zipped over EXT. TAO'S HOUSE - DAY Tao and Sue wait in front. Tao wears a suit, Sue is in a traditional Hmong dress. A TAXI pulls up and they get Sitting on the porch is Phong who rocks back and forth in her rocking chair. Phong holds Daisy in her arms, gently petting the old dog.
PAGE 119: FATHER JANOVICH Walt Kowalski once said to me I didn't know anything about life or death because ‘I was an overeducated, 27-year-old virgin who held the hands of superstitious old women and promised them eternity.' Walt definitely had no problem ‘calling it like he saw it.' But Walt was right. I knew really nothing about life or death until I got to know Walt. And boy, did I learn.
FATHER JANOVICH: Walt Kowalski once said to me I didn't know anything about life or death because ‘I was an overeducated, 27-year-old virgin who held the hands of superstitious old women and promised them eternity.' Walt definitely had no problem ‘calling it like he saw it.' But Walt was right. I knew really nothing about life or death until I got to know Walt. And boy, did I learn.
LAWYER: Which brings us to our last item. And again, please forgive the language used in Mr. Kowalski's will. I'm simply reading it as it was written. The LAWYER takes a sip of water before reading.
LAWYER: ‘And to my friend, Tao Vang Lor, I leave my 1972 Gran Torino on the condition that you don't choptop the roof like a damned spick, don't paint any idiotic flames on it like some white-trash hillbilly and don't put a big gay spoiler on the rear-end like you see on all the other zipper heads' cars. It just looks like hell. If you can refrain from doing any of that, it's yours.
THE END: Writers : Nick Schenk
