BRAD: Old fuck.
PAUL: Oh, my.
BRAD: Out for a little stroll, Paulie?
PAUL: Let go.
BRAD: What's with this poncho you got on, huh? This isn't yours.
PAUL: I got it off the wall there. There's a whole row of them.
BRAD: But not for you, Paulie, that's the thing. Those are for the staff.
PAUL: I just borrowed it. Don't see what harm it does.
BRAD: It's not about harm, it's about rules. You probably don't think an old fart like you has to mind rules anymore, but that's just not
PAUL: I'm sorry if I broke the rules.
BRAD: You got no business up in those woods anyway, especially in the rain. What if you fall and bust a hip, huh? Who you think's gonna have to hoss your sorry old bacon back down here? Me, that's who.
PAUL: You're hurting me!
BRAD: What do you do up there, anyway? You're too old to go jerk off, so what do you do?
PAUL: Nothing. I just walk, that's all, I like to walk!
BRAD: Come on. Open up. Let Poppa see.
ELAINE: I saw you coming back, thought you'd like some tea. Are you coming in?
PAUL: Mr. Dolan and I were.chatting. About the weather. I think we're through now.
BRAD: Paulie? You tell anyone I squeezed your po' ol' hand, I'll tell 'em you're having senile delusions. Who you think they'll believe?
PETE: Why we always watch this crap?
PETE: Interesting? Bunch'a inbred trailer trash, all they ever talk about is fucking.
ELAINE: We should report him.
PAUL: That might just provoke him all the more, make things worse for It's not everybody he has it in for, Paul. It's you. What did you do to provoke him in the first place? Nothing. He's just an abusive bully, and should be made to stop.
ELAINE: It's not everybody he has it in for, Paul. It's you. What did you do to provoke him in the first place? Nothing. He's just an abusive bully, and should be made to stop.
PAUL: Ellie, please.
ELDERLY LADIES: .no, the Movie Classic channel is further down.past the Home Shopping.keep going.
FRED ASTAIRE: Heaven, I'm in heaven.and my heart beat so that I can hardly
ELAINE: Paul? What is it?
ELAINE: Paul.my God.
ORDERLY: ( rushing over ) What is it? What's wrong?
PAUL: It's okay.I'll be okay.
BRAD: S'matter, Paulie? Why the boo-hoo- hoo? Something nasty happen?
ELAINE: Mr. Edgecomb will be perfectly fine without your help, thank you.
PAUL: I guess sometimes the past just catches up with you, whether you want it to or not. It's silly.
ELAINE: Was it the film? It was, wasn't it?
PAUL: I haven't spoken of these things in a long time, Ellie. Over sixty
ELAINE: Paul. I'm your friend.
PAUL: Yes. Yes you are.
PAUL: I ever tell you I was a prison guard during the depression?
ELAINE: You've mentioned it.
PAUL: Did I mention I was in charge of death row? That I supervised all the executions?
PAUL: They usually call death row the Last Mile, but we called ours the Green Mile, because the floor was the color of faded limes. We had the electric chair then. Old Sparky, we called it. I've lived a lot of years, Ellie, but 1935 takes the prize. That was the year I had the worst urinary infection of my life. That was also the year of John Coffey, and the two dead girls.
BRUTAL: Paul? Prisoner.
BRUTAL: You all right in there?
BRUTAL: You should'a took the day off, gone to see the doctor.
PAUL: With a new arrival? You know better. Besides, it's not as bad as it was. I think it's clearing
DEL: New boy coming in, boss?
PAUL: Never you mind, Del, you just keep your nose quietly on your business.
BRUTAL: Damn, they're riding on the axle. What'd they do, bust the springs?
BRUTAL: Paul? You might wanna reconsider getting in the cell with this guy?
PAUL: Why's that?
BRUTAL: He's enormous.
PAUL: Can't be bigger than you.
PERCY: Dead man walking! Dead man walking
PAUL: Jeezus, pleeze-us, what the hell's he yelling about?
PERCY: Dead man walking!
PERCY: Dead man walking! Dead man
PAUL: Percy, that's enough.
BRUTAL: You sure you wanna be in there with him?
PAUL: ( looks to Coffey ) Am I gonna have trouble with you, big boy?
PAUL: Percy. They're moving house over in the infirmary. Why don't you go see if they could use some help?
PERCY: They got all the men they need.
PAUL: Why don't you just go make sure? I don't care where you go, Percy, as long as it's not here at this very moment.
DEL: OWW, GOD, HE BUS' MY FINGERS! Wiped that grin off your shitpoke face, didn't I
PERCY: Wiped that grin off your shitpoke face, didn't I
PAUL: Goddamn it, Percy! Get the hell off my block!
DEL: Oww, damn, boss, he done bus' my fingers for true.
PAUL: We'll get it looked at, Del, now keep yourself quiet like I said!
PAUL: If I let Harry take those chains off you, you gonna be nice?
PAUL: Your name is John Coffey.
COFFEY: ( deep and quiet ) Yes, sir, boss, like the drink, only not spelt the same.
PAUL: So you can spell, can you?
PAUL: My name is Paul Edgecomb. If I'm not here, you can ask for Mr. Terwilliger, Mr. Howell, or Mr. Stanton.those gentlemen there. This isn't like the rest of the prison. It's a quiet place, we like to keep it that way.
COFFEY: It weren't me making all the noise, boss.
PAUL: ( eyes narrowing ) You having a joke on me, John No, sir.
COFFEY: No, sir.
PAUL: Your time here can be easy or hard, depends on you. If you behave, you get to walk in the exercise yard every day. We might even play some music on the radio from time to time.
COFFEY: Do you leave a light on after
COFFEY: Because I get a little scared in the dark sometimes. If it's a strange place.
PAUL: It's pretty bright in here all night long. We keep half the lights burning in the corridor.
COFFEY: Coffey looks confused. Paul points to the lights lining the ceiling of the Green Mile in wire mesh cages.
PAUL: Right out there.
COFFEY: Couldn't help it, boss. I tried to take it back, but it was too late.
PAUL: Dean, run Delacroix up to the infirmary and see if his fingers are broken.
BRUTAL: Course they're broken, I heard the damn bones crack. Goddamn Percy.
HARRY: You hear what he was yelling when we brought the big dummy in?
PAUL: How could I miss it, Harry? The whole prison heard.
BRUTAL: You'll probably have to answer for sending him off the Mile. He's gonna cause you trouble over this, you mark me.
PAUL: I'll chew that food when I have to. Right now I wanna hear about the new inmate.aside from how big he is, okay?
BRUTAL: ( smiles ) Monstrous big. Damn.
PAUL: Seems meek enough. Looks like they sent us an imbecile to execute.
HARRY: Imbecile or not, he deserves to fry for what he done. Here.
HARRY: .make your blood curdle.
KLAUS: WHAT? GOD SAKES, WHAT? THE GIRLS! THE GIRLS ARE GONE!
MARJORIE: THE GIRLS! THE GIRLS ARE GONE!
HOWIE: Papa! Papa, look! The blood!
KLAUS: Oh my God.
KLAUS: GODDAMN IT, WOMAN, GET ON THE PHONE NOW! YOU TELL 'EM WE HEADED WEST! MIND WHAT I'M SAYING! WEST,
Y'HEAR?: .and she goes stumbling through the house, grabbing for the phone as her men disappear toward the porch b.g.:
MARJORIE: Central! Central, are you on the line? Oh, God, please, somebody took my little girls.
VARIOUS ANGLES: .which takes us through the cattails and bulrushes.to the spot where Klaus finds the little scrap of pale yellow fabric, turns and screams.
KLAUS: Oh, Lord, this belongs to my
PAUL: EXT. FIELD - DAY ( FLASHBACK ) The men reload their weapons. Everybody's terrified. McGee starts off, the other following his lead toward
THE RIVER: where they emerge from the treeline, drawing ever closer to the source of that INHUMAN HOWLING. .and they stop, gazing in horror: John Coffey sits on the riverbank in bloody overalls, his huge feet splayed out before him. He's making that inhuman howling sound, face twisted in monstrous grief, pausing occasionally to take in a great hitching breath of air. Curled in his massive arms are the naked bodies of Detterick's 9 year-old twin girls, their once-blonde hair now matted to their heads with blood. A tableau. The men staring. John Coffey howling. A train puffing smoke across the landscape. Klaus Detterick breaks the moment, lunging down the riverbank in a headlong rush. The others try to grab him, but he shrugs them off and throws himself on Coffey with a scream of inarticulate rage, kicking and punching, fists flying. Coffey barely seems to notice. The others catch up with Klaus, drag him off. He falls to his knees on the riverbank, sobbing into his hands. Howie runs to him, throws himself into his father's arm. They hug each other tightly, overwhelmed with grief. A semblance of quiet descends, except for Coffey's heartbroken wailing. A ring of rifle toting men forms around him, though he hardly seems aware of it. McGee steps forward, Coffey goes quiet at once, eyes still streaming tears.
COFFEY: John Coffey. Like the drink, only not spelt the same. What happened here, John Coffey? You want to tell me that?
COFFEY: I couldn't help it. I tried to take it back, but it was too late. Boy, you are under arrest for
HAL: I interrupt?
PAUL: I'm just about done.
PAUL: How's that pretty gal of yours?
HAL: Melinda's not so well, Paul. Not so well at all. Got laid up with another headache yesterday. Worst one yet. She's also developed this weakness in her right hand.
PAUL: Doctor still think it's migraines?
HAL: I'll be taking her up to Indianola next day or so for some tests. Had X-rays and the like. She is scared to death. Truth to tell, so am I.
PAUL: If it's something they can see with an X-ray, maybe it's something they can fix.
HAL: He pulls a letter, hands it to Paul.
HAL: This just came in. D.O.E. on
PAUL: You didn't come all the way down here just to hand me a D.O.E.
HAL: No. I had an angry call from the state capital about twenty minutes ago. Is it true you ordered Percy Wetmore off the block.
PAUL: It is.
HAL: I'm sure you had reason, but like it or not, the wife of the governor of this state has only one nephew, and his name happens to be Percy Wetmore. I need to tell you how this lays out?
PAUL: Little Percy called his aunt and squealed like a schoolroom sissy. He also mention he assaulted a prisoner this morning out of sheer petulance? Broke three fingers on Eduard Delacroix's left hand.
HAL: I didn't hear that part. I'm sure she didn't either.
PAUL: The man is mean, careless, and stupid. Bad combination in a place like this. Sooner or later, he's gonna get somebody hurt. Or worse.
HAL: You and Brutus Howell will make sure that doesn't happen.
PAUL: Easy enough to say. We can't watch him every minute, Hal.
HAL: Stick with it. May not be much longer. I have it on good authority that Percy has an application in at Briar Ridge.
PAUL: The mental hospital?
HAL: ( nods ) Administration job. Better pay.
PAUL: Then why's he still here? He could get that application pushed through.hell, with his connections, he could have any state job he wants.
PAUL: Tell you what I think. I think he just wants to see one cook up
HAL: Well, he'll get his chance then, won't he? Maybe then he'll be satisfied and move on. In the meantime, you'll keep the peace.
PAUL: Of course.
HAL: Thank you, Paul.
PAUL: You give Melinda my love, okay? I bet that X-ray turns out to be nothing at all.
JAN: Hey, you. Music too loud?
PAUL: Hey, you. Music too loud?
JAN: No. There's just this big empty spot in the bed where my husband usually sleeps.
PAUL: He said to tell you he's having a little trouble with that tonight.
JAN: Worried about Melinda and Hal? Is that what's got you up?
PAUL: Yeah, that. Things.
JAN: She sits on his lap and gives him a crooked smileyou're not getting off that easily.
PAUL: Got a new inmate today. Big, simple-minded fella.
JAN: Do I want to hear what he did?
PAUL: No. One sleepless member of this family's enough. The things that happen in this world. It's a wonder God allows it.
JAN: Why don't you come to bed? I've got something to help you sleep, and you can have all you want.
PAUL: Don't I wish. I've still got something wrong with my waterworks, I don't want to pass it on.
JAN: You see Doc Sadler yet?
PAUL: No, because he'll want me to take sulfa tablets and I'll spend the rest of the week puking in every corner of my office. It'll run its course all by itself, thank you very much for your concern.
JAN: Poor old guy.
BRUTAL: I guess the legislature loosened those purse-strings enough to hire on a new guard. Look again. He's right there.
PAUL: He's doing a cell check.
DEAN: It ain't normal for a mouse to come up on people that way. Maybe it's rabid.
BRUTAL: Oh, my Christ. The big mouse expert. The Mouse Man. You see it foaming at the mouth, Mouse Man?
DEAN: ( dubious ) I don't see its mouth at all.
DEAN: Aw, Brutal, no! We'll be hip-deep in mice around here.
BRUTAL: ( to Paul ) I just wanna see what he'll do. In the interests of science, like.
DEAN: He's in the damn restraint room. You know he's gonna be chewing the padding out of walls and making himself a nice little nest.
PAUL: All right. Let's get the damn
COFFEY: Saw me a mouse go by.
PAUL: It was a dream. Go back to sleep.
COFFEY: Weren't no dream. It was a mouse all right.
PAUL: Can't put anything over on you.
PAUL: Dean, watch the door. He tries to get past you, whack him.
DEAN: Brutal or the mouse?
BRUTAL: Har har, Mouse Man.
PAUL: You let him get past you.
DEAN: No I didn't, I was here all the Then where the hell is he?
BRUTAL: Then where the hell is he?
BRUTAL: Three grown men. Outsmarted by a Well, bright side is, all this commotion probably scared him off for good.
DEAN: Well, bright side is, all this commotion probably scared him off for good.
PAUL: Yeah, that's right. That's the last we'll see of him.
COFFEY: stares through his bars as the mouse goes by.
PERCY: keeps combing his hair, unaware.
DEL: sits quietly picking his nose in his cell. The mouse appears outside the bars, cruising inexorably up the Mile. Del turns slowly, watches the mouse go by.
PERCY: still grooming himself, still unaware.
THE MOUSE: keeps coming closer. ANGLE UP to Bitterbuck peering through his bars, watching him go by.
PERCY: keeps working that comband freezes at the sound of a TINY SQUEAK. His head swivels slowly. .and there's the mouse. Staring at him. That moment of eye contact reveals an enmity older than time itself. If mice have a natural enemy, Percy is it.
PAUL: You little son of a bitch.
HARRY: Well, I'll be damned. There he is, big as Billy-be-frigged. I thought Brutal was pulling my leg.
BILL: That's a goddamn mouse.
HARRY: Yeah. Brute said he was in here last night begging for food, came right up to the desk.
BILL: My ass. Give him some room, Percy, see what he does.
HARRY: Brave little bastard, gotta give him that.
BILL: Here, lemme try.
BILL: Maybe he's full.
HARRY: ( grins ) Maybe he knows you're just a floater. Gotta be an E Block regular to feed the E Block mouse, don'cha know.
HARRY: I was just kidding ab
PERCY: He fumbles with his keys, unlocks the door, yelling all the OUTSIDE E BLOCK Paul and Brutal are arriving for workthey pause, hearing PERCY'S YELLS drifting from the windows. The regular CONS in the yard are drifting curiously to the fence, wondering if a riot's brewing. Paul and Brutal take off running
FUCK!: He fumbles with his keys, unlocks the door, yelling all the OUTSIDE E BLOCK Paul and Brutal are arriving for workthey pause, hearing PERCY'S YELLS drifting from the windows. The regular CONS in the yard are drifting curiously to the fence, wondering if a riot's brewing. Paul and Brutal take off running
PERCY: I'M GONNA RIP YOUR DISEASED HEAD OFF, YOU LITTLE PIECE OF SHIT!
HARRY: Percy met your mouse.
PERCY: It's in here somewhere! I'm gonna squish the little son of a bitch!
BRUTAL: Percy, we already tried that
PERCY: What? Whad'ja say?
BRUTAL: I said
BRUTAL: uh, knock yourself out. Hope you nail the bastard.
BRUTAL: Gosh. Ain't in there, huh? Don't that beat the mousie band?
PAUL: Percy. You want to think about what you were doing just now.
PERCY: ( turns, glaring ) I know what I was doing. Trying to get the mouse. You blind?
HARRY: You also scared the living crap out of me and Bill. And them.
PERCY: So what? They aren't in cradle- school, case you didn't notice. .although you treat them that way half the time.
BRUTAL: We don't scare 'em any more than we have to, Percy. They're under enough strain as it is.
PAUL: Men under strain can snap. Hurt themselves. Hurt others. That's why our job is talking, not yelling. You'll do better to think of this place like an intensive care ward in a hospital
PERCY: I think of it as a bucket of piss to drown rats in. That's all. Anybody doesn't like it can kiss my ass. How's that sit?
PERCY: Try it. You'll be on the bread lines before the week is out.
PAUL: We all know who your connections are, Percy. .but you ever threaten a man on this block again, we're all gonna have a go. Job be damned.
PERCY: Big talk. You done?
PAUL: Get all this shit back in the restraint room. You're cluttering up my Mile.
COFFEY: Saw me a mouse go by.
PAUL: Arlen? Your daughter and her family are here.
PAUL: Let's move. I want at least two rehearsals before he gets back.
TOOT: Sittin' down, sittin' down, rehearsing now! Everybody settle!
PAUL: Arlen Bitterbuck, step forward.
TOOT: I'm steppin' forward, I'm steppin' forward, I'm steppin' forward.
PAUL: Is his head properly shaved?
DEAN: No, it's dandruffy and it smells.
PAUL: I'll take that for a yes. All right, Arlen, let's go.
TOOT: I'm walkin' the Mile, I'm walkin' the Mile, I'm walkin' the Mile.
TOOT: I'm prayin', I'm prayin', I'm prayin'. The Lord is my shepherd, so on an' so forth.
PAUL: Toot, you have to wait till I tell you to pray. Okay, pray.
TOOT: Still prayin', still prayin'.
HARRY: Paul, we're not gonna have some Cherokee medicine man in here whoopin' and hollerin' and shaking his dick, are we?
PAUL: Well, actually
TOOT: Still prayin', prayin', gettin' right with Jesus.
HARRY: Do it quietly, you old gink!
PAUL: As I was saying, I don't believe they actually shake their dicks, Harry. Be that as it may, Mr. Bitterbuck is a Christian, so we got Reverend Schuster coming in.
DEAN: Oh, he's good. Fast, too. Doesn't get 'em worked up.
PAUL: On your feet, Toot. You've prayed enough for one day.
TOOT: Gettin' to my feet, walkin' again, walkin' on the Green Mile.
EXECUTION CHAMBER: They enter. Brutal is waiting for them, gun drawn. Percy peers out from behind the partition wall from the switch room.
PERCY: What do I do?
PAUL: Watch and learn. Sittin' down, sittin' down, takin' a seat in Old Sparky's lap. Gettin' clamped, gettin' clamped, gettin'ow, shit, watch the skin!
TOOT: Sittin' down, sittin' down, takin' a seat in Old Sparky's lap. Gettin' clamped, gettin' clamped, gettin'ow, shit, watch the skin!
TOOT: Gettin' clamped, gettin' clamped, gettin'ow, shit, watch the skin!
BRUTAL: Roll on one.
VAN HAY: "Roll on one" means I turn the generator up full. You'll see the lights go brighter in half the
BRUTAL: Arlen Bitterbuck, you have been condemned to die by a jury of your peers, sentence imposed by a judge in good standing in this state. Do you have anything to say before the sentence is carried out?
TOOT: ( gleefully ) Yeah! I want a fried chicken dinner with gravy on the taters, I want to shit in your hat, and I got to have Mae West sit on my face, because I am one horny
PAUL: Shut up, Brutal. That goes for everybody. I want quiet in here. Toot, another remark like that, I'll have Van Hay roll on two for It was pretty funny.
BRUTAL: ( beat, gently ) It was pretty funny.
PAUL: That's why I don't like it. Tomorrow night we're doing this for real. I don't want somebody remembering a stupid joke like that and getting going again. Ever try not laughing in church once something funny gets stuck in your head. Same goddamn thing.
BRUTAL: Sorry, Paul. You're right. Let's keep going. Harry.
PERCY: What's with the sponge?
VAN HAY: You soak it in brine, get it good and wet. Conducts the electricity directly to the brain, fast like a bullet. You don't ever want to throw the switch on a man without
BRUTAL: Arlen Bitterbuck, electricity shall now be passed through your body until you are dead, in accordance with the state law. God have mercy on your soul. Roll on two.
VAN HAY: And that's that.
TOOT: Now I'm fryin'! Fryin'! Geeaaah! Fryin' like a done tom turkey!
BRUTAL: One of the witnesses showed up a day early.
PAUL: All right, let's go again and do it right this time! Get that idiot out of the chair.
BITTERBUCK: You think if a man sincerely repents on what he done wrong, he might get to go back to the time that was happiest for him and live there forever? Could that be what heaven is like?
PAUL: I just about believe that very
BITTERBUCK: Had me a young wife when I was eighteen. Spent our first summer in the mountains. Made love every night. She'd just lie there after, bare-breasted in the firelight, and we'd talk sometimes till the sun come up. That was my best time.
PAUL: It'll be fine. You'll do fine.
BRUTAL: Roll on two.
BRUTAL: The switch is thrown a second time. Bitterbuck surges forward again, riding the current all the way.
PERCY: Adios, Chief. Drop us a card from hell, let us know if it's hot
BRUTAL: He's paid what he's owed. He's square with the house again, so keep your goddamn hands off him.
PERCY: What's up his ass?
PAUL: You, Percy. Always you.
PERCY: You gotta hate the new boy? That the way it is around here?
PAUL: ( turns back ) Why not just move on? Go to Briar ( off his look ) Yeah, I know about it. Sounds like a good job.
PERCY: I might take it, too. Soon as you put me out front.
PERCY: You heard me. I want Brutal's spot for the next execution.
PAUL: ( beat ) What's with you? Seeing a man die isn't enough? You gotta be close enough to smell his nuts cook?
PERCY: I wanna be out front, is all. Just one time. Then you'll be rid of me.
PAUL: If I say no?
PERCY: I might just stick around for good, make me a career of this.
COFFEY: AT THE GUARD STATION Paul glances up from writing in the daily log. Silence now. He goes back to writingand the GIGGLING comes again.
PAUL: Delacroix? That you?
PAUL: You are not gonna believe this.
DEL: Look! I done tame me dat mouse!
PAUL: We see that.
DEL: Watch dis! Watch what he do! Ain't he sumpthin now? Ain't Mr. Jingles smart?
DEL: Ain't he sumpthin now? Ain't Mr. Jingles smart?
PAUL: Mr. Jingles?
DEL: Dat his name. He whisper it in my ear. Cap'n, can I have a box for my mouse so he can sleep in here wi' me?
PAUL: I notice your English gets better when you want something.
DEL: Wanna see what else he can do? Watch, watch, watch.
DEL: We play fetch, Mr. Jingles? We play fetch?
DEL: He fetch it ever' time. Smart as hell, ain't he? We do da trick again, watch, watch, watch.
BRUTAL: Who's training who here?
COFFEY: That's some smart mouse, Del. Like he's a circus mouse or something.
DEL: A circus mouse! Dat jus' what he is, too! A circus mouse! I get outta here, he make me rich, see if he don't!
PERCY: Well, well. Looks like you found yourself a new friend, Eddie.
DEL: Don' hurt him, 'kay? 'kay?
PERCY: That the one I chased?
PAUL: ( level ) Yes, that's the one. Only Del says his name is Mr. Jingles.
PERCY: Is that so?
PAUL: Del was just asking for a box. He thinks the mouse will sleep in it, I guess. That he might keep it for a pet. What do you think?
PERCY: I think it'll shit up his nose some night and run away, but I guess that's Del's lookout. We oughtta find a cigar box. Get some cotton batting from he dispensary to line it with. That should do real nice.
PAUL: Man said get a cigar box.
PAUL: Hal? You wanted to see me?
HAL: Yeah. Paul. Close the door.
HAL: Uh. So you know. You got a new prisoner coming in tomorrow. William Wharton. Young kid. Wild as hell, judging from this.
HAL: .been rambling all over the state last few years, causing all kinds of trouble. Finally hit big time. Killed three people in a holdup, including a pregnant woman. Got "Billy the Kid" tattooed on his left arm.bad news all around.
PAUL: It's a tumor, Paul. A brain tumor.
HAL: It's a tumor, Paul. A brain tumor.
HAL: They got X-ray pictures of it. It's the size of a lemon, they said, and way down deep inside where they can't operate. They say she'll be dead by Christmas. I haven't told her. I can't think how. For the life of me, Paul, I can't think how to tell my wife she's going to die.
PAUL: .oh God.oh God.
PAUL: I'm going.
JAN: To the doctor. I'm going. Today. Just as soon as we get the new inmate squares away.
PAUL: To the doctor. I'm going. Today. Just as soon as we get the new inmate squares away.
JAN: That bad?
PAUL: Oh yeah.
HARRY: Boy's doped to the gills. Dean, hand me them clothes.
HARRY: William Wharton! Hey! I'm talking to you! Put these clothes on!
PERCY: Hellraiser, huh? Looks more like a limp noodle to me. Hey! Hey, you!
PERCY: You been declared competent! Know what that means? Mean's you're gonna ride the lightning, son!
PERCY: Bzzzzzzzzt-zap! Just like that! How's it feel to know you're gonna die with your knees bent?
DEAN: C'mon, Percy, give us a hand.
DEL: Don' look so good, boss. Look like you runnin' you a fever.
PAUL: Got things to tend to just now, John Coffey. You be still in your cell now, y'hear?
COFFEY: OUTSIDE E BLOCK Billy is brought to the door. Dean pulls his keys, starts to unlock it. We PUSH IN on Billy's face, where the tiniest trace of a smile is starting to grow.
COFFEY: Careful. Careful.
THE DOOR: .and opened. In that moment, the slack look on Billy's face gives way to a wild grin. A CRAZED SCREECH leaps from his throat, a cross between a rebel yell and a dog being tortured, freezing everybody's blood in their veins
BILLY: and he drops his wrist-chain down over Dean's head, jerks it tight, begins to strangle him. Dean lurches forward, Billy riding/propelling him through the door onto the Mile. Percy stands frozen in the doorway, stunned. Harry shoves him aside and jumps on Billy from behind, trying to get him off Dean. Dean is choking, turning purple. Paul rushes from the cell to join the fray. Billy whirls, delivering a stunning kick to Paul's groin. Paul's bladder pain goes nuclearhe falls back in agony, clutching himself and sucking air through his teeth, unable even to scream. Billy rams an elbow into Harry's face, knocks him sprawling on the desk, screaming and laughing and howling all the while:
BILLY: WHOOOEE, BOYS! AIN'T THIS A PARTY, NOW? IS IT, OR WHAT?
PAUL: LET HIM GO!
BILLY: G'WAN, SHOOT! SEE WHO YA HIT!
PAUL: HIT HIM, PERCY! GODDAMN IT, HIT C'MON, PERCY, HIT ME! HIT ME, YOU LIMP NOODLE, HIT ME! YEEHAWWW!
HIM!: C'MON, PERCY, HIT ME! HIT ME, YOU LIMP NOODLE, HIT ME! YEEHAWWW!
BILLY: C'MON, PERCY, HIT ME! HIT ME, YOU LIMP NOODLE, HIT ME! YEEHAWWW!
BILLY: Big fucker. Snuck up on me. No
BRUTAL: Breathe.breathe.that's it.
HARRY: We thought he was doped. Didn't we? Didn't we all of us think he was doped?
PAUL: You didn't ask? I guess that's not a mistake you'll be need to make again anytime soon, is it?
PAUL: Grab his arms! You too, Percy! Percy, goddamn it, get your feet out of cement and help us out here! Get Dean looked at right away, make sure he's all right. Percy, you go make a report to the warden for me. Start off by saying the situation is under control it's not a story, he won't appreciate you drawing out the What about you? You look about ready to collapse.
PAUL: Get Dean looked at right away, make sure he's all right. Percy, you go make a report to the warden for me. Start off by saying the situation is under control it's not a story, he won't appreciate you drawing out the What about you? You look about ready to collapse.
BRUTAL: What about you? You look about ready to collapse.
PAUL: I've got the Mile till you all get back. Go on now.
PAUL: This is not a good time, John Coffey. Not a good time at all.
COFFEY'S CELL: .and finds Coffey waiting at his bars.
COFFEY: I'm alone here right now, John. Figure this is close enough.
PAUL: I'm alone here right now, John. Figure this is close enough.
COFFEY: Boss, please. I got to whisper in your ear.
DEL: Boss? You know you not s'pose to do dat.
PAUL: Mind your business, Del. What do you want, John Coffey?
COFFEY: Just to help.
PAUL: ( stunned, frozen ) What are you.doing?
DEL: HELP! JOHN COFFEY'S KILLING BOSS EDGECOMB! HELP! Del, Chrissake, settle down, I'm
EDGECOMB! HELP!: Del, Chrissake, settle down, I'm
PAUL: Del, Chrissake, settle down, I'm
PAUL: John? John, what's wrong?
PAUL: What did you do, big boy? What did you do to me?
COFFEY: I helped it. Didn't I help it?
PAUL: Yes, but.how?
COFFEY: Just took it back, is all. Awful tired now, boss. Dog tired.
DEL: What dat man do to you? He throw some gris-gris on you? You look diff'int! Even walk diff'int. Like y'all better!
PAUL: You're imagining thing. Lie down, Del. Get you some rest.
JAN: Hi, honey. How are you feeling?
PAUL: Um.not too bad.
JAN: What did the doctor say?
PAUL: Oh, you know doctors. Gobble-de- gook mostly.
JAN: Paul? What are you doing?
PAUL: What's it feel like?
JAN: I know what it feels like.it feels great.but.Paul.
JAN: Those must've been some pills.
JAN: Paul? Not that I'm complaining. But we haven't gone four times in one night since we were nineteen. You wanna tell me just what the hell's going on?
PAUL: Well.thing is.I never actually got to the doctor yesterday.
PAUL: Brutal? Listen.I'm thinking of taking the morning off sick. You cover the fort for me? That's swell. Thanks. Yeah, I'm sure I'll feel better. Okay.
JAN: You sure you ought to do this?
PAUL: I'm not sure what I'm sure of.
CYNTHIA: I offer you a cold drink?
PAUL: Yes, ma'am, a cold drink would be fine. Thank you.
PAUL: Mr. Hammersmith. Your office said I'd find you at home today. I hope I'm not troubling you.
BURT: That depends, Mr.?
PAUL: Paul Edgecomb. I'm the E Block superintendant at Cold Mountain.
BURT: The Green Mile. I've heard of it. Lost a few clients your way.
PAUL: That's why I'm here. I'd like to ask you about one of them.
BURT: Which client? Now you got my curiosity aroused.
PAUL: John Coffey.
BURT: Ah, Coffey. He causing you No, can't say he is. He doesn't like the dark. He cries on occasion. Other than that.
PAUL: No, can't say he is. He doesn't like the dark. He cries on occasion. Other than that.
BURT: Cries, does he? Well, he's got a lot to cry about, I'd say. You know what he did.
PAUL: ( nods ) I read the court transcripts.
PAUL: Thank you, Missus.
CYNTHIA: My pleasure. Kids! Lunch is about ready! Y'all come on up!
BURT: What exactly are you trying to find out? Satisfy my curiosity, I'll see if I can satisfy yours.
PAUL: I've wondered if he ever did anything like that before.
BURT: Why? Has he said anything?
PAUL: No. But a man who does a thing like that has often developed a taste for it over time. Occurred to me it might be easy enough to follow his backtrail and find out. A man his size, and colored to boot, can't be that hard to trace.
BURT: You'd think so, but you'd be wrong. Believe me, we tried. It's like he dropped out of the sky.
PAUL: How do you explain that?
BURT: We're in a Depression. A third of the country's out of work. People are drifting by the thousands, looking for work, looking for that greener grass. Even a giant like Coffey wouldn't get noticed everywhere he goes. not until he kills a couple of little girls.
PAUL: He's.strange, I admit. But there doesn't seem to be any real violence in him. I know violent men, Mr. Hammersmith. I deal with 'em day in and day out.
BURT: You didn't come up here to ask me whether he might have killed before. You came up here to see if I think he did it at all. That's it, isn't it?
PAUL: Do you?
BURT: One seldom sees a less ambiguous case. He was found with the victims in his arms. Blurted out a confession right then and there.
PAUL: Yet you defended him.
BURT: Everyone is entitled to a defense.
CYNTHIA: Kids! Lunch!
BURT: Y'all listen to your Momma, now!
BURT: Tell you something. You listen close, too, because it might be something you need to know.
PAUL: I'm listening.
BURT: We had us a dog. No particular breed, but gentle. Ready to lick your hand or fetch a stick. Just a sweet mongrel, you know the kind. In many way, a good mongrel dog is like you negro. You get to know it, and often you get to love it. It is of no particular use, but you keep it around because you think it loves you. If you're lucky, Mr. Edgecomb, you never have to find out any different. My wife and I were not so lucky. Caleb. Come here for a second.
BURT: Please, son.
BURT: He has the one eye. I suppose he's lucky not to be blind. We get down on our knees and thank God for that much at least. Right Caleb? Okay, go on in now.
BURT: That dog attacked my boy for no reason. Just got it into his mind one day. Same with John Coffey. He was sorry afterwards, of that I have no doubt.but those little girls stayed raped and murdered nonetheless. Maybe he's never done it beforemy dog never bit before, but I didn't concern myself with that. I went out there with my rifle and grabbed his collar and blew his brains out.
PAUL: I'm sorry for your trouble.
BURT: I'm as enlightened as the next man, Mr. Edgecomb. I would not bring back slavery for all the tea in China. I believe we have to be humane and generous in our efforts to solve the race problem. But we have to remember that the negro will bite if he gets the chance, just like a mongrel dog will bite if it crosses its mind to do so. Is Coffey guilty? Yes, he is. Don't you doubt it, and don't you turn your back on him. You might get away with it once or even a hundred times.but in the end.
BURT: You understand?
BURT: I'm gonna have to tear that old doghouse down one of these days.
PAUL: No, it's not for you.
DEL: Oh. Oh my.
COFFEY: I'm smelling me some cornbread.
PAUL: It's from my missus. She wanted to thank you.
COFFEY: Thank me for what?
PAUL: You know. For helping me.
COFFEY: Helping you with what?
COFFEY: ( beat ) Was your missus pleased?
PAUL: Several times.
COFFEY: This all for me?
DEL: Oh my. John, I can smell it from here. I surely can.
COFFEY: ( looks to Paul ) Can I give some to Del?
PAUL: It's yours, John. You do with it as you please.
COFFEY: Here's for Del and Mr. Jingles Hey! What about me? I'm'a get some too, ain't I
BILLY: Hey! What about me? I'm'a get some too, ain't I
PAUL: It's yours, John. As you please.
COFFEY: Well. Fine. I think I'll keep the rest, then.
PAUL: Courtesy of the gentleman across the way.
DEL: Oh, John. So very fine of you. So very kind. Mr. Jingles t'ank you.
COFFEY: ( mouth full ) Hey! What about me? Don't you hold out on me, ya big dummy nigger!
BILLY: Hey! What about me? Don't you hold out on me, ya big dummy nigger!
PAUL: You'll keep a civil tongue on my
PAUL: You get that one for free. But that's the last one.
BILLY: That's it? Just that little bitty one? Guess I'll have to pay out for the rest, huh?
BILLY: Yeehaaw! Good shot, weren't it? Oh, the look on your face!
HARRY: You believe this? Son of a bitch pissed on me!
BILLY: Hey, d'jall like that? I'm currently cooking some turds t'go with it! Nice soft ones! I'll have 'em out t'yall tomorrow!
PAUL: We've been looking to clear that room out anyway.
BILLY: Hey! Whassit now, movin' day? Y'all wanna come in and dust a little? Y'can shine my knob for me while yer at it!
BILLY: You can come in here on your legs, but you'll go out on your backs, Billy the Kid guarantee ya that. C'mon, fuckstick. No sneakin' up on me this time. We'll go man to man, see who's the better fel
PAUL: C'mon, Wild Bill. Little walky Don't you call me that! Wild Bill Hickock wasn't no range rider! He was just a bushwackin' John Law! Dumb sonovabitch sat with his back to the door and kilt by a drunk!
BILLY: Don't you call me that! Wild Bill Hickock wasn't no range rider! He was just a bushwackin' John Law! Dumb sonovabitch sat with his back to the door and kilt by a drunk!
BRUTAL: Oh, my suds and body! A history lesson! You just never know what you're gonna get when you come to work everyday on the Green Mile. Thank you, Wild Bill.
BILLY: Oh, not in there! C'mon now, I'll be good! Honest Injun I will! No! No! Ummmmhhhh.urg.ah!
HARRY: Holy Christ, he's pitchin' a fit!
PAUL: He'll be fine, boys. Trust me on this one.
RESTRAINT ROOM: .and Billy staggers to his feet in the straitjacket, inarticulate with rage, starts throwing himself against the door, screaming at the top of his lungs.
BILLY: ALL I WANTED ME WAS A LITTLE CORNBREAD, YOU MUTHERFUCKERS!
BILLY: I learnt my lesson. I'll be good.
BILLY: Pssss. Hey. Give'ya nickel for that Moon Pie.
BILLY: Li'l Black Sambo, yassuh, boss, yassuh, howdoo you do?
BRUTAL: ( beat, calmly ) Hope your bags are packed.
PAUL: The Moon Pie thing was pretty original. Gotta give him that.
PAUL: Del, grab your things. Big day for you and Mr. Jingles.
DEL: Whatchoo talkin' bout?
PAUL: Important folks heard about your mouse, wanna see him perform. Not just guards, either. One of them's a politician all the way from the state capital, I believe.
DEL: You fellas comin'?
HARRY: We got other fish to fry just now, Del, but you knock 'em for a loop.
COFFEY: You knock 'em for a loop like Mr. Harry says, Del.
PAUL: Let's move along briskly, folks. There's not much time.
TOOT: I'm sittin' down, I'm sittin' down, I'm sittin' down.
EARL: Been sweepin' floors here ten years, never had to wear no damn tie before.
BILL: You're a V.I.P. today, Earl, so just shut up.
DEL: Messieurs et mesdames! Bienvenue au cirque de mousie!
PERCY: Roll on two.
VAN HAY: That's that.
PAUL: Very good. Very professional.
PAUL: They love Mr. Jingles! They laugh and cheer and clap they hands!
DEL: They love Mr. Jingles! They laugh and cheer and clap they hands!
PERCY: Well, that's just aces. Pop back in your cell, old-timer.
BRUTAL: Percy, you shit.
PERCY: Del! Hey, you numb wit, I didn't mean nothin' by it! You all ri
BILLY: Ain't you sweet. Soft. Like a girl. I druther fuck your asshole than your sister's pussy, I think.
PAUL: .and Billy lets go, stepping back with his hands raised, laughing. Percy darts across the Mile in terror and cringes against the cell opposite, breathing so loud and fast it almost sounds like sobbing.
BILLY: I let 'im go, I'us just playin' and I let 'im go! Never hurt a hair on his purty head! Your noodle ain't limp at all, loverboy! I think you sweet on ol' Billy the Kid. .oooh, but smell you.
DEL: Lookit, he done piss his pants! Look what the big man done! He bus' other people wid 'is stick, mais oui some mauvais homme, but someone touch him, he make water in his pants jus' like a baby!
BRUTAL: Shut up, Del.
PERCY: You talk about this to anyone, I'll get you all fired. I swear that to God.
PAUL: What happens on the Mile, stays on the Mile. Always has.
PERCY: You keep laughing, you French- fried faggot. You just keep
PAUL: What about Dean? He's got a little boy would love a pet mouse, I bet.
DEL: How could a boy be trust wid Mr. Jingles? Maybe forget to feed him. And how he keep up wid his trainin', just a boy, n'est-ce pas?
PAUL: All right, I'll take him.
DEL: T'ank you kindly, merci beaucoup, but you live out in the woods, and Mr. Jingles, he be scared to live out dans la foret.
PAUL: He whisper that in your ear?
BRUTAL: How about Mouseville?
DEL: Tourist attraction down in Florida. Tallahassee, I think. Is that right, Paul? Tallahassee?
BRUTAL: Tourist attraction down in Florida. Tallahassee, I think. Is that right, Paul? Tallahassee?
PAUL: ( level ) Yeah, that's right. Tallahassee. Just down the road apiece from the dog university.
BRUTAL: You think they'd take Mr. Jingles? You think he's got the stuff?
PAUL: Might. He's pretty smart.
DEL: Hey! What dis Mouseville?
BRUTAL: Tourist attraction, I said. They got this big tent you go into
DEL: Like a cirque? You have to pay?
BRUTAL: You shittin' me? Course you pay. Dime a piece, two cents for the kids. And inside the tent there's this mouse city made out of boxes and toilet paper rolls.
BRUTAL: .plus they got the Mouseville All-Star Circus. There's mice that swing on trapeze, mice that roll barrels, mice that stack coins.
DEL: Dat's it! Dat's da place for Mr. Jingles! You gonna be a circus mouse after all! Gonna live in a mouse city down in Florida!
BRUTAL: Percy, no!
PERCY: Knew I'd get him sooner or later. Just a matter of time, really.
COFFEY: Give'm to me.
COFFEY: Give'm to me. Might still be time.
BRUTAL: What are you doing?
BRUTAL: Paul, what the hell
DEL: Please, John. Oh Johnny, help him, please help him, s'il vous plait.
BRUTAL: ( softly ) Oh, dear Jesus. The tail. Look at the tail.
DEAN: What did you do?
COFFEY: I helped Del's mouse. He a circus mouse. Goan live in a mouse city down in.down in.
BRUTAL: ( numb )
COFFEY: Boss Percy's bad. He mean. He step on Del's mouse. I took it back, though.
PAUL: Brute, come along with me. You fellas go on back to you cribbage game.
EXECUTION CHAMBER: .and they enter to find Percy polishing Old Sparky's arms.
PERCY: Don't start in on me. It was just a mouse. Never belonged here in the first place.
PAUL: The mouse is fine. Just fine. You're no better at mouse-killing than anything else around here.
PERCY: You expect me to believe that? I heard the goddamn thing crunch.
PAUL: Aren't you glad Mr. Jingles is okay? After all our talks about how we should keep the prisoners calm? Aren't you relieved?
PERCY: What kind of game is this?
PAUL: No game. See for yourself.
PERCY: You switched them! You switched them somehow, you bastards!
BRUTAL: I always keep a spare mouse in my wallet for occasions such as this.
PERCY: You're playing with me, the both of you! Just who the hell do you think you are
PAUL: We're the people you work with, Percy, but not for long. I want your word.
PERCY: My word?
PAUL: I put you out front for Del, you put in your transfer to Briar Ridge the very next day.
PERCY: What if I just call up certain people and tell them you're harassing me? Bullying me?
PAUL: Go ahead. I promise you'll leave your share of blood on the floor.
PERCY: Over a mouse? You think anyone's gonna give two shits?
PAUL: No. But four men will swear you stood by while Wild Bill tried to strangle Dean to death. About that people will care, Percy. Even your uncle the governor will care.
BRUTAL: Thing like that goes in your work record. Work record can follow a man around a long, long time.
PAUL: I put you out front, you put in your transfer. That's the deal.
PAUL: You make a promise to a man, you shake his hand.
DEL: Hey, boys. Say hi, Mr. Jingles.
PAUL: Eduard Delacroix, will you step Boss Edgecomb?
DEL: Boss Edgecomb?
PAUL: Yes, Del?
DEL: Don' let nothin' happen to Mr. Jingles, okay?
DEL: Here, take him.
PAUL: Del. I can't have a mouse on my shoulder while.you know.
COFFEY: I'll take him, boss. Jus' for now. If Del don' mind.
DEL: Yeah, you take 'im, John. Take him til' dis foolishment donebien! After, you take him down to Florida? To dat Mouseville?
BRUTAL: We'll do it together, most likely. Maybe take a little vacation time.
DEL: People pay a dime apiece to see him. Two cents for the kiddies. Ain't dat right, Boss Howell?
BRUTAL: That's right, Del.
DEL: You a good man, Boss Howell. You too, Boss Edgecomb. Wish I could'a met you bot' someplace else.
DEL: Au revoir, mon ami. Je t'aime, mon
EXECUTION CHAMBER: Sweltering in the damp heat. Rain is pissing down, drumming the tin roof. People glance up uneasily as THUNDER BOOMS. A FAT LADY is staring grimly at the electric chair.
FAT LADY: Hope he's good and scared. Hope he knows the fires are stoked, and that Satan's imps are waiting.
PERCY: Roll on one.
COFFEY: You be still, Mr. Jingles. You be so quiet and so still.
PERCY: Eduard Delacroix, you have been condemned to die by a jury of your peers, sentence imposed by a judge in good standing in this state. You have anything to say before sentence is carried out?
DEL: I sorry for what I do. I give anything to take it back, but I can't. God have mercy on me. Don' forget 'bout Mouseville.
PERCY: No such place. That's just a fairy tale these guys told you to keep you quiet. Just thought you should know, faggot.
PERCY: takes the sponge and bends down to the bucket of brine. The other don't see it, but we do: Percy only pretends to dip the sponge and soak it. It never touches the water. He straightens up and places the sponge atop Delacroix's head, hiding it with his hands. The cap is lowered. Paul and the others haven't yet realized what's happened. THUNDER BOOMS and LIGHTNING CRASHES as Percy hides a smile, steps back to address the condemned:
PERCY: Electricity shall now be passed through your body until you are dead, in accordance with state law. God have mercy on your soul.
PERCY: Roll on two.
PAUL: It's dry!
PAUL: but Brutal grabs his arm, whispers fiercely:
JACK!: but Brutal grabs his arm, whispers fiercely:
BRUTAL: Don't you tell him to stop. Don't you do it. It's too late for that.
BILLY: HE'S COOKIN' NOW! THEY COOKIN' HIM GOOD! NEAR ABOUT DONE, I RECKON! What the hell's happening to him?.Are those clamps going to hold?.Christ, the smell!.Is this normal?
WITNESSES: What the hell's happening to him?.Are those clamps going to hold?.Christ, the smell!.Is this normal?
VAN HAY: SHOULD I KILL THE JUICE? NO! ROLL, FOR CHRIST'S SAKE, ROLL!
PAUL: NO! ROLL, FOR CHRIST'S SAKE, ROLL!
PAUL: No water! No water! You crazy?
FAT LADY: Stop it, stop it, oh can't you see he's had enough?
HAL: Why don't you shut it down?
PAUL: He's still alive! You want me to shut down while he's still alive?
PAUL: You watch, you son of a bitch!
PAUL: Kill it!
BRUTAL: You do it. You're running the show, ain't you?
HAL: It's all right, folks, it's all under control. Just a power surge from the storm, that's all, nothing to worry about.
PAUL: Dean, get doc's stethoscope.
MAN: Oh my God! Is it always like this? Why didn't somebody tell me? I never would have come!
PERCY: I didn't know the sponge was supposed to be wet
PAUL: Brutal, no!
BRUTAL: What do you mean, no? How can you say no? You saw what he did!
PAUL: Delacroix's dead, nothing can change that, and Percy's not worth So he just gets away with it? Is that how it works?
BRUTAL: So he just gets away with it? Is that how it works?
HAL: What the fuck was that? Jesus Christ, three witnesses puked all over the floor up there! And the smell! I got Van Hay to open both doors, but that smell won't come out for five damn years, that's what I'm betting! And that asshole Wharton is singing about it! I can hear him!
PAUL: ( quietly ) Can he carry a tune, Hal?
HAL: Okay, boys. Okay. Now what the hell happened?
HAL: Percy? Something to say?
PERCY: I didn't know the sponge was supposed to be wet.
HAL: How many years you spend pissing on the toilet seat before somebody told you to put it up?
PAUL: Percy fucked up, Hal. Pure and Is that your official position?
HAL: Is that your official position?
PAUL: Don't you think it should be?
PAUL: He'll be putting in a transfer request to Briar Ridge tomorrow. Moving on to bigger and better things. Isn't that right, Percy?
HAL: You're a little asshole, and I don't like you a bit. Have that transfer request on my desk first thing.
BILLY: ( singing ) Barbecue! Me and you! Stinky, pinky, phew-phew-phew! Weren't Billy or Jilly or Hilly or Royit was a French-fried faggot named You're about ten seconds away from spending the rest of your life in the padded room. Poor Del. Poor old Del.
PAUL: You're about ten seconds away from spending the rest of your life in the padded room. Poor Del. Poor old Del.
COFFEY: Poor Del. Poor old Del.
PAUL: Yes. Poor old Del. John, are you I could feel it from here.
COFFEY: I could feel it from here.
PAUL: What do you mean? You could hear it? Is that what you mean?
COFFEY: He's out of it now, though. He's the lucky one. No matter how it happened, Del's the lucky one.
PAUL: Where's Mr. Jingles?
COFFEY: ( points vaguely ) Ran down there. Don't think he'll be back. ( beat ) Awful tired now, boss. Dog tired.
PAUL: Me too, John. Me too.
PAUL: I hate this.
JAN: I know.
HAL: She's having one of her good days. I thank God for that.
PAUL: What a bad day?
HAL: ( beat ) Sometimes she's.not herself anymore. She swears.
PAUL: It just pops out, the most awful language you can imagine. She doesn't even know she's doing it. I didn't know she'd ever heard words like that.and to hear her say them in her sweet voice. I'm glad she's having a good day, Paul. I'm glad for you and Jan.
HAL: It just pops out, the most awful language you can imagine. She doesn't even know she's doing it. I didn't know she'd ever heard words like that.and to hear her say them in her sweet voice. I'm glad she's having a good day, Paul. I'm glad for you and Jan.
JAN: Honey? If you don't say what's on your mind, I'm afraid I'll have to smother you with a pillow.
PAUL: I'm thinking I love you. I'm thinking I don't know what I'd do if you were gone.
JAN: ( beat ) I'm also thinking I'd like to have the boys over tomorrow.
PAUL: ( beat ) I'm also thinking I'd like to have the boys over tomorrow.
THE MEN: ( various, ad-lib ) Ma'am, you sure know how to fry up some fine chicken.Brutal, don't hog the taters now.Try that corn yet? It's something special.
PAUL: You saw what he did with the mouse.
BRUTAL: I could'a gone the rest of the day without you bringing that up.
DEAN: I could'a gone the rest of the He did it to me too. He put his hands on me and took my bladder infection away.
PAUL: He did it to me too. He put his hands on me and took my bladder infection away.
JAN: When he came home, he was.all You're talking about an authentic healing. A praise-Jesus miracle.
DEAN: You're talking about an authentic healing. A praise-Jesus miracle.
PAUL: I am.
BRUTAL: If you say it, I accept it. But what's it got to do with us?
JAN: Melinda? Oh, Paul.
BRUTAL: Melinda? Melinda Moores?
JAN: You really think you can help her?
PAUL: It's not a bladder infection, or even a busted-up mouse. But there might be a chance.
HARRY: Hold on now. You're talking about our jobs. Sneak a sick woman onto a cellblock?
PAUL: Hal would never allow that. You know him, he wouldn't believe something unless it fell on him.
BRUTAL: So you're talking about taking John Coffey to her. That's more than just our jobs, Paul.
DEAN: Damn right. That's prison time if we get caught.
HARRY: Let's not discuss this like it's even an option. Brutal, help me out here.
BRUTAL: I'm sure she's a fine woman.
JAN: The finest.
PAUL: What's happening to her is an offense, Brutal. To the eyes and the ears and the heart.
BRUTAL: I have no doubt. But we don't know her like you and Jan do.do we?
PAUL: That's why it's a lot to ask.
HARRY: It is. Let's not forget Coffey's a murderer. What if he escapes? I'd hate losing my job or going to prison, but I'd hate having a dead child on my conscience even more.
PAUL: I don't think that'll happen. .in fact, I don't think he did it at all.
PAUL: I just can't see God putting a gift like that in the hands of a man who would kill a child.
DEAN: Well, that's a tender notion, but the man's on death row for the crime. Plus, he's huge. If he tried to get away, it'd take a lot of bullets to stop him.
BRUTAL: We'd all have shotguns in addition to sidearms. I'd insist on that. He tried anything, we'd have to take him down. You understand.
PAUL: I understand.
BRUTAL: ( beat ) So. Tell us what you had in mind.
BRUTAL: I was never here.
ORDERLY: Shit, for five bucks, you was never nowhere.
BRUTAL: Fellas thirsty? Fresh out of the Oh, thanks. That's swell.
DEAN: Oh, thanks. That's swell.
HARRY: Yeah, hot in here.
BILLY: Hey. Hey, I'm'a get some too.
BRUTAL: My ass you get some too.
PAUL: You think you deserve any?
HARRY: ( checks a clipboard ) Day report says he's been okay.
BILLY: Hell, yes, I been behaved. C'mon, now, don't be stingy hogs.
BILLY'S CELL: Billy reaches for the cup, but Paul keeps it out of reach.
PAUL: You gonna stay behaved?
BILLY: C'mon, you clunk, gimme that.
PAUL: You promise me, or I'll drink it myself right here in front of you.
BILLY: C'mon now, don't be that way. I be
PAUL: We'll break out the fire hose and take it anyway. And you will have drunk your last R.C. cola. Unless they serve 'em down in hell.
BILLY: We'll break out the fire hose and take it anyway. And you will have drunk your last R.C. cola. Unless they serve 'em down in hell.
PAUL: Anybody wants to back out, now's the time. After this, there's no turning back. So? We gonna do this?
COFFEY: Sure. I'd like to take a ride.
BRUTAL: ( to Paul ) Guess were all in.
PERCY: What is this?
PAUL: Percy jumps up and tries to the execution chamber, but Harry grabs him, spins him back. A wild scuffle ensues as:
PERCY: Let go of me! Let go!
PAUL: Settle down, Percy! Oooo, Poicy! What would your mother say?
BRUTAL: Oooo, Poicy! What would your mother say?
PERCY: Let go, you ignoramus! I know people! Big people!
PAUL: So you've said. C'mon, stick out your arms like a good boy.
PERCY: I won't. And you can't make me.
BRUTAL: You're dead wrong about that, you
BRUTAL: You gonna put your arms up? I'll rip your ears off. Use 'em for tea caddies. You know I will.
PAUL: The man's ripping your ears off, Percy. I'd do as he says.
PERCY: Please, Paul. Don't put me in with Wild Bill. Please.
PAUL: You would think that.
BRUTAL: You'll get 'em back, don't worry.
PERCY: That's more than I can say about your jobs. All your jobs! You can't do this to me! You can't!
PAUL: Let you in on a little secret. We can and we are.
PAUL: You're going to have a few hours of quiet time now, so you can reflect on what you did to Del.
BRUTAL: ( grins ) If you get lonely, think about Olive Oyl. ( thrusting his hips )
PAUL: One more timewhat do you say if somebody comes by?
DEAN: Coffey got upset, so we put him in the restraint room. They hear any noise, they'll think it's him.
COFFEY: We goan for the ride now?
PAUL: That's right.
PAUL: What about us?
DEAN: You're over in Admin, going over Del's file. Brutal and Harry are in the laundry doing their wash
BILLY: ( slurring wildly ) Where you fink you're goin'?
COFFEY: You're a bad man.
BILLY: S'right, nigger. Bad as you'd want.
BILLY: Whooeee. Whole room's spinning. Like I'm shit-ass drunk. I have me some shine or what?
BILLY: Niggers oughtta have they own 'lectric chair. White man oughtn't havta sit in no nigger 'lectric chair, nossir.
COFFEY: He's a bad man.
COFFEY: They're still in there. Pieces of them, still in there. I hear them
PAUL: John, come along! Right now, y'hear? C'mon! Toward that door!
PAUL: Lie down on this. It'll be easier for you and no harder for us.
COFFEY: Say. This is fun.
COFFEY: Look, boss! It's Cassie, the lady in the rocking chair!
PAUL: Shhh. John, you have to be quiet You see her? You see the lady?
COFFEY: ( whispering ) You see her? You see the lady?
BRUTAL: We see her, John.
PAUL: C'mon, big boy, keep moving.
BRUTAL: How far is it?
HARRY: Just up ahead.
COFFEY: Hey there, little firefly. Where's Mrs. Firefly this evening?
COFFEY: Oh, there you is. You come out to play too?
PAUL: They seem.drawn to you.
COFFEY: I love 'em, is why. They don't think no hurtful thoughts. They's just happy to be. Happy little lightning bugs.
PAUL: C'mon, big boy. Upsy-daisy.
PAUL: John? Do you know where we're taking you?
COFFEY: Help a lady?
PAUL: That's right. Help a lady. But how did you know?
COFFEY: Dunno. Tell the truth, boss, I don't know much'a anything. Never
COFFEY: Bye, fireflies. Bye.
BRUTAL: We can still turn back.
COFFEY: Boss, look. Someone's up.
BRUTAL: This is a mistake. Christ, Paul, what were we thinking?
PAUL: Too late now. Harry, keep John here until we call you.
HAL: Who the hell goes there at two- thirty in the goddamn morning?
PAUL: Hal, it's us! It's Paul and Brutalit's us!
HAL: Paul, what are you doing here at this hour? Jesus, it's not a lockdown, is it? Or a riot?
PAUL: Hal, God's sakes, take your finger off the trigger.
HAL: Are you hostages? Who's out there? Who's by that truck?
HAL: John Coffey! Halt! Halt right there or I shoot!
PAUL: No one's hurt. We're here to help.
HAL: Help what? I don't understand. Is this a prison break?
PAUL: I can't explain what it is. You just have to trust me.
HAL: What do you.want?
MELINDA: Hal! Make them go away! No salesmen in the middle of the night! No Fuller brushes! No French knickers with come in the crotch! Tell them to take a flying fuck in a rolling d.d.
COFFEY: ( a whisper ) Just to help. Just to help, boss, that's all.
HAL: You can't. No one can.
HAL: Don't you go up there! Don't you do it!
COFFEY: Boss, you just be quiet now and let me be.
MELINDA: Oh, so big! Pull down your pants! Let's have a look! Don't come near me, pigfucker.
MELINDA: Don't come near me, pigfucker.
MELINDA: Why do you have so many scars? Who hurt you so badly?
COFFEY: Don't hardly remember, ma'am.
MELINDA: What's your name?
COFFEY: John Coffey, ma'am. Like the drink, only not spelt the same.
COFFEY: Yes, John Coffey?
MELINDA: Yes, John Coffey?
COFFEY: I see it. I see it.
COFFEY: You be still now. You be so quiet and so still.
DOWNSTAIRS PARLOR: .and the grandfather clock stops ticking, the pendulum stopping dead, the glass face cracking neatly up the center.
BEDROOM: .and a windowpane cracks. Then another. A picture falls off the wall. A lightbulb bursts, showering glass. Paul smells smoke, realizes the fringed coverlet of the bed has caught fire. Moving like a man in a dream, he reaches for the waterglass on the nightstand, douses the flames. Coffey keeps kissing Melinda in that deep and mysterious way, inhaling and inhaling, her hand held in his like a tiny white bird. For a moment we actually hear something screaming, as if some willful imp were being extracted by force. .and then it's over. Coffey raises his head, revealing: Melinda's beautiful face. Her mouth no longer droops. Color is coming back to her hair. Her skin is shining with life. Coffey regards her raptly for a moment or two, then starts coughing violently. He turns away and drops to his knees, hacking like a man in the last stages of tuberculosis. Paul and his men are expecting Coffey to spit out the "bugs", but he doesn'the just keeps coughing, deep and hard, barely finding time to snatch in the next breath of air. Hal goes to his wife, beyond stunned, sits at her side. She looks back at him with amazement, her face like a dirty mirror that's been suddenly wiped clean. John's coughing grows even worse. Brutal drops to his side and slaps his broad, spasming back.
BRUTAL: John! Sick it up! Cough 'em out like you done before!
BRUTAL: He's choking! Whatever he sucked out of her, he's choking on it!
MELINDA: How did I get here? We were going to the hospital in Indianola, weren't we? We stopped and you bought me a packet of posies.
HAL: Shhh. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter anymore.
MELINDA: Did I have the X-ray? Did I
PAUL: They both look at him.
PAUL: It was clear. There was no tumor.
MELINDA: Who is that man?
PAUL: John? Can you turn around? Can you turn around and see this lady?
MELINDA: What's your name?
COFFEY: John Coffey, ma'am.
MELINDA: Like the drink, only not spelled the same.
COFFEY: No, ma'am. Not spelt the same at
HAL: Melly, no.
MELINDA: I dreamed of you. I dreamed you were wandering in the dark, and so was I. We found each other. We found each other in the dark.
MELINDA: It's St. Christopher. I want you to have it, Mr. Coffey, and wear it. He'll keep you safe. Please wear it for me.
COFFEY: Thank you, ma'am.
MELINDA: Thank you, John.
PAUL: C'mon, John, stay on your feet.
HARRY: Christ, he goes down, we'll need three mules and a crane to pick him up again.
BRUTAL: He'll never sit in Old Sparky. You know that, don't you? He swallowed that stuff for a reason. I give him a few days. One of us'll be doing a cell check and there he'll be. Dead on his bunk.
PAUL: If that's his choice, he's earned Let's get him back on the Mile.
DEAN: Am I glad to see you! You were gone so long! Wild Bill's making noises like he's gonna wake up. What the hell's wrong with him?
BRUTAL: He's hurting, Dean. Hurting bad.
PAUL: John, we're gonna set you on your bunk now. Ready?
DEAN: What about Mrs. Moores? Was it like the mouse? Was it a.you know.a miracle?
PAUL: Yes. Yes it was.
HARRY: Damn. I think we got away with it.
BRUTAL: We still gotta convince a certain somebody to keep his trap shut.
PAUL: Get his stuff.
PAUL: I want to talk, not shout. I take the tape off, you gonna be calm.
BRUTAL: My mother always said if you do it fast, it won't hurt so much.
BRUTAL: I guess she was wrong.
PERCY: Get me out of this nut-coat.
PAUL: In a minute.
PERCY: Now! Now! Right n
PAUL: You shut up and listen. You deserved to be punished for what you did to Del. You'll accept it like a man, or we'll make you sorry you were ever born. We'll tell people how you sabotaged Del's execution
PERCY: and how you pissed yourself like a frightened little girl. Yes, we'll talk, that's a givenbut, Percy, mind me now.we'll also see you beaten within an inch of your life.
PAUL: and how you pissed yourself like a frightened little girl. Yes, we'll talk, that's a givenbut, Percy, mind me now.we'll also see you beaten within an inch of your life.
PAUL: We know people, too, are you so foolish you don't realize that? People with friends and loved ones doing time in this prison. People who'd be happy to amputate you nose or your penis just so someone they care about could get an extra three hours in the exercise yard every week. Let bygones be bygones. Nothing's hurt so far but your pride.and nobody need ever know about that except the people in this room.
BRUTAL: What happens on the Mile, stays on the Mile. Always has.
PERCY: May I be let out of this coat now?
PERCY: My things?
PAUL: Think it over, Percy.
PERCY: Oh, I intend to. I intend to think about it very hard. Starting right
BRUTAL: He'll talk. Sooner or later.
PAUL: Easy, easy. You all right?
BILLY: What'a you looking at, you limp noodle? You wanna kiss my ass or suck my dick?
DEAN: Oh God, oh God, no.
COFFEY: Punished them bad men.
PAUL: Why Wild Bill? Why?
COFFEY: I saw in his heart. When he grab my arm, I saw what Wild Billy done. Saw plain as day. Can't hide what's in your heart.
PAUL: What? Saw what?
COFFEY: Take my hand, boss. You see for Paul, no!
BRUTAL: Paul, no!
COFFEY: My hand. Gots to, boss. Gots to give you a little bit of myself. A gift, like. A gift of what's in me so you can see.
PAUL: Gots to, boss. Gots to give you a little bit of myself. A gift, like. A gift of what's in me so you can see.
COFFEY: Gots to, boss. Gots to give you a little bit of myself. A gift, like. A gift of what's in me so you can see.
BILLY: You lover your sister? You make any noise, know what happens? I'll kill her instead of you. And if you make any noise, I'll kill her.
COFFEY: He kill 'em with they love. They love for each other. You see how it is?
COFFEY: That's how it is ever' day. That's how it is all over the worl'.
WILD BILL: lies dead, staring with glassy eyes. A FLASHBULB POPS, rimming him with harsh blue light.
DEAN: .well, I dunno, he just snapped, I guess.
HARRY: .s'right, one minute he's fine, the nextblammo.
BRUTAL: .bastard grabbed him through the bars a few days back, scared the boy so bad he wet himself.
PERCY: sits handcuffed on the floor of the Mile, eyes glassier than Wild Bill's. TWO COPS are trying to snap him out of it:
COP #1: Son! Son! Can you hear me?
COP #2: Speak up if you can hear us! We gotta ask you some questions!
MEDIC: I think this boy's cheese slid off his cracker.
HAL: sees Paul, motions him aside to talk privately:
HAL: I'll cover you as much as I can, even if it mean my job, but I have to know. Does this have anything to do with what happened at my house? Does it, Paul?
PAUL: DISSOLVE TO:
PAUL: It makes sense. I read the file. Hal even said it himself. Wharton rambled all over the state last few years, causing trouble. Hell, longer than that. Been at it since he was ten. Vandalism. Petty theft. Setting fires.
JAN: You saw him. You actually saw this Wild Bill person take those girls.
PAUL: Their father hired him on for a few days last spring, help repair the barn. Cheap labor, just another drifter.
BRUTAL: Only not.
PAUL: Sick bastard came back a month later, just before dawn. Took the girls.did what he did. Coffey found them afterwards and tried to help. It was too late.
JAN: ( absorbs this ) Then you can stop it. The execution, I mean. Get Coffey a new trial.
PAUL: Based on what, honey? Some kind of magical vision I had?
JAN: Show this farmerwhat's his name, Detterick?show him a picture of Wild Bill. Why not? If Wharton was there.if the farmer can identify his picture and they know he was Him being there in May doesn't mean he came back and killed those girls in June. Even if he was committing other crimes.
BRUTAL: Him being there in May doesn't mean he came back and killed those girls in June. Even if he was committing other crimes.
PAUL: They got their killer as far as they're concerned. Hell, Coffey's own lawyer would come throw the switch if we let Then lie.
JAN: Then lie.
PAUL: Lie? About what?
JAN: Tell them Wharton confessed to the crime. Brutus, you can back him up, say you heard it too. You can say that's what set Percy off. He shot Wharton because he couldn't stand thinking of what happened to those two little girls, it snapped his mind. .what? What now?
DEAN: We never reported anything like that. We would've, too, everybody knows it. It's part of our job.
BRUTAL: Besides, confessing don't make it so. Slugs like Wild Bill lie about everything. Crimes they committed, women they had, even the weather.
JAN: But he was there! He painted their barn! He ate dinner with them!
PAUL: All the more reason he might take credit for the crime. He's gonna fry anyway, so why not boast?
JAN: All right. Then you've got to get John Coffey out on your own.
HARRY: You did it once, didn't you? Only this time, don't bring him back.
JAN: You did it once, didn't you? Only this time, don't bring him back.
DEAN: Ma'am, your son's grown up and moved away. My kids are just starting kindergarten. Will you be the one to explain to them why their daddy's in prison?
JAN: Work out a plan. Make it look like a real escape.
HARRY: Better be a plan an imbecile could dream up. Nobody'd believe it Even if we did think of something, it wouldn't do any good.
BRUTAL: Even if we did think of something, it wouldn't do any good.
JAN: Why not? Just why the hell not?
PAUL: Because he's a six-foot-eight-inch baldheaded black man with barely enough brains to feed himself. How long you think it'd be before he was recaptured? Two hours? Six?
JAN: Do you mean to kill him, you cowards? Do you?
JAN: Don't touch me! Next week this time you'll be a murderer, no better than that man Wharton, so don't touch me!
JAN: I'm so sorry I called you a coward. I feel worse about that than anything I've ever said to you in our whole marriage.
PAUL: Even that time we went camping and you called me Old Stinky Sam?
JAN: Does Hal know? That Coffey's innocent, I mean? Can he help? Does he have the influence to do something about Then don't tell him. If he can't help, don't tell him. Ever.
PAUL: Then don't tell him. If he can't help, don't tell him. Ever.
JAN: Then don't tell him. If he can't help, don't tell him. Ever.
PAUL: I won't.
JAN: ( beat ) There's no way out of this for you, is there?
PAUL: No. I've been thinking about it, too, believe me. Tell you the truth, honey. I've done some things in my life I'm not proud of, but this is the first time I've ever felt in real danger of hell.
JAN: Hell? Oh Paul. Talk to him. Talk to John. Find out what he wants.
COFFEY: Hello, boss.
PAUL: Hello, John.
PAUL: I guess you know we're coming down to it now. Another couple of days. Is there anything special you'd like for dinner that night? We can rustle you up most anything.
COFFEY: Meatloaf be nice. Mashed taters with gravy. Okra, maybe. I's not What about a preacher? Someone you could say a little prayer with?
PAUL: What about a preacher? Someone you could say a little prayer with?
COFFEY: Don't want no preacher. You can say a prayer, if you want. I could get kneebound with you, I guess.
PAUL: Coffey gives him a lookplease.
PAUL: S'pose I could, if it came to that.
PAUL: John, I have to ask you something very important right now.
COFFEY: I know what you gonna say. You don' have to say it.
PAUL: I do. I do have to. John, tell me what you want me to do. You want me to take you out of here? Just let you run away? See how far you can get?
COFFEY: Why would you do such a foolish On the day of my judgement, when I stand before God, and He asks me why did I kill one of his true miracles, what am I gonna say? That is was my job? My job?
PAUL: On the day of my judgement, when I stand before God, and He asks me why did I kill one of his true miracles, what am I gonna say? That is was my job? My job?
COFFEY: You tell God the Father it was a kindness you done. I know you hurtin' and worryin', I can feel it on you, but you oughtta quit on it now. Because I want it over and done. I do.
COFFEY: I'm tired, boss. Tired of bein' on the road, lonely as a sparrow in the rain. Tired of not ever having me a buddy to be with, or tell me where we's coming from or going to, or why. Mostly I'm tired of people being ugly to each other. I'm tired of all the pain I feel and hear in the world ever' day. There's too much of it. It's like pieces of glass in my head all the time. Can you understand?
PAUL: Yes, John. I think I can.
BRUTAL: There must be something we can do for you, John. There must be something you want.
COFFEY: I ain't never seen me a flicker
FRED ASTAIRE: ( singing ) Heaven, I'm in heaven.and my heart beats so that I can hardly
PROJECTION BOOTH: Toot operates the projector, peering through the tiny window into the theater. He yawns, glances at his watch. Late.
COFFEY: can't believe what he's seeing. He's so excited his breath is caught in his throat. Softly:
COFFEY: Why, they's angels. Angels. Just like up in heaven.
COFFEY: I be all right, fellas. This here's the hard part. I be all right in a little while.
PAUL: John, I should have that just for now. I'll give it back after.
COFFEY: You know, I fell asleep this afternoon and had me a dream. I dreamed about Del's mouse.
PAUL: Did you, John?
COFFEY: I dreamed he got down to that place Boss Howell talked about, that Mouseville place. I dreamed there was kids, and how they laughed at his tricks! My!
COFFEY: I dreamed those two little blonde- headed girls were there. They 'us laughing, too. I put my arms around 'em and sat 'em on my knees, and there 'us no blood comin' outta their hair and they 'us fine. We all watch Mr. Jingles roll that spool, and how we did laugh. Fit to bus', we was.
PAUL: What should we pray for, John?
COFFEY: Paul nodsstrength it is. Dean surprises Brutal and Harry by also kneeling. Brutal and Harry hesitate.then join them.
PAUL: God, please help us finish what we've started, and please welcome this man, John Coffeylike the drink, but not spelled the same into heaven and give him peace. Please help us to see him off the best we can and let nothing go wrong. Amen.
COFFEY: I know a prayer I once heard. Can I say it?
PAUL: You go right ahead, John. Take all the time you need.
COFFEY: Baby Jesus, meek and mild, pray for me.
COFFEY: .be with me until the end. Amen.
EXECUTION CHAMBER: Full house tonight. Bill Dodge is waiting at Old Sparky. Silence as Coffey is led in, all eyes on him. Klaus and Marjorie Detterick are in the front row. She mutters:
MARJORIE: Die slow, you bastard.
COFFEY: is faltering as Paul and Brutal bring him to the chair.
COFFEY: They's a lot of folks here hate me. A lot. I can feel it. Like bees stinging me. It hurts.
BRUTAL: Feel how we feel, then. We don't hate youcan you feel that?
MARJORIE: Kill him twice, you boys! You go on and kill that raping baby- killer twice, that'd be fine!
PAUL: Wipe you face before you stand up,
PAUL: Roll on one.
MARJORIE: Does it hurt yet? I hope it does! I hope it hurts like hell!
PAUL: John Coffey.you have been condemned to die in the electric chair by a jury of your peers.sentence imposed by a judge in good standing in this state. Do you have anything to say before sentence is carried out?
COFFEY: I'm sorry for what I am.
MARJORIE: You ought to be! Oh, you monster, you damn well ought to be!
COFFEY: Please, boss, don't put that thing over my face. Don't put me in the dark, I's afraid of the dark.
PAUL: All right, John.
COFFEY: .heaven.I'm in heaven.
THE WITNESSES: sit and wait, barely breathing.
PAUL: is staring at Coffey, unable to say the words.
BRUTAL: ( whispers ) Paul. You have to say it. You have to give the order.
COFFEY: ( whispered V.O. ) He kill 'em with they love. That's how it is ever' day. All over the
PAUL: Roll on two.
PAUL: That was the last execution I ever took part in. Just couldn't do it anymore after that. Brutal either. We both transferred out, took jobs with Boys' Correctional. That was all right. Catch 'em young, that became my motto. Might even have done some good.
PAUL: You don't believe me.
ELAINE: I don't imagine you would lie to me, Paul. It's just that.
PAUL: .It's quite a story.
ELAINE: Yes. Quite a story. One thing I don't understand. You said you and Jan had a grownup son in 1935. Is that right? But if that's true.
PAUL: The math doesn't work, does it? You feel up to a walk?
PAUL: You feel up to a walk?
PAUL: There. It's in there.
ELAINE: Paul? This thing you want to show me. Is it scary?
PAUL: Scary? No. Not really.
PAUL: Elaine moves closer, sees it on the dusty floorboards: An old cigar box. For a moment, she doesn't know what to make of it.
PAUL: Hey. Wake up, old boy. Wake up.
ELAINE: Paul? It isn't.it can't be.
PAUL: Come over here, boy. Come on over her and see this lady.
ELAINE: That can't be Mr. Jingles.
PAUL: Messieurs et mesdames. Beinvenue au cirque du mousie.
ELAINE: Oh, Paul. Don't make him do it again. I can't bear to watch.
PAUL: ( softly ) But he loves it so much.
PAUL: This isn't exactly the Mouseville we had in mind.but we make do, don't we, old fella?
BRAD: Fooled you, didn't I Got yourself a little love nest here, I see.
BRAD: .what the fuck? Is that a mouse?
PAUL: Don't hurt him, okay? Okay?
BRAD: It's a goddamn mouse, y'old fool, they carry all kind'a disease.
BRAD: .now step aside.
PAUL: You leave him alone, Percy! You leave him alone, or by God I'll
BRAD: Who you calling Percy? Name's Brad, you senile fucker. And I'm gonna nail that mouse, you can take that to the everfucking bank.
ELAINE: How dare you? Get out!
BRAD: Piss off, you wrinkeldy old bitch. Me and Paulie are talking.
ELAINE: His name is Mr. Edgecomb. If you ever call him Paulie again, your days of employment at Georgia Pines will end.
BRAD: Who the hell you think you are?
ELAINE: I am the grandmother of the man who is currently Speaker of the Georgia House of Representatives. A man who loves his relatives, Mr. Dolan. All it would take is a phone call.
ELAINE: At first I thought I'd let you be. I'm old, and that seemed easiest. But when my friends are threatened and abused, I do not let it be. Now get out, or you won't work another day here. Not another hour. I swear it.
BRAD: Don't know what you're getting so het up about. Just a damn mouse.
ELAINE: Get out, you ignorant man. What little mind you have is ugly and
BRAD: Don't bother coming back here tomorrow.Mr. Edgecomb Gonna be a new lock on this door. This is off-limits to residents, no matter what Mrs. My Shit Don't Stink has to say about it.
ELAINE: Little trick I learned from Percy Is your grandson really Speaker of the House?
PAUL: Is your grandson really Speaker of the House?
ELAINE: He is.
PAUL: You gonna thank the lady? She just saved your old mousie hide.
PAUL: I think Mr. Jingles happened by accident. I think when we electrocuted Del, and it all went so badly.well, John could feel it, you know.and I think a tiny part of whatever was inside of him just leapt out. Me, I was no accident. John had to give me a little part of himself.a gift, like.so I could see for myself what Wild Bill had done. When John did that, a part of whatever power worked through him spilled into me.
ELAINE: He.what? Infected you with life?
PAUL: That's as good a word as any. He infected us both, didn't he, Mr. Jingles. With life. I'm a hundred and five years old, Elaine. I was forty the year John Coffey walked the Green Mile.
ELAINE: .oh my God.
PAUL: I haven't even had a cold since 1935. I've had to watch my friends and loved ones die off through the years.Hal and Melinda.Brutus Howell.my wife.my son. .and you, Elaine. You'd die, too, and my curse is knowing I'll be there to see it.
PAUL: Mr. Jingles?
PAUL: Where you been, boy? I've been worried about you. You hungry?
