GRIFTERS: by Donald E. Westlake
JEWELER: Mrs. Langtry, I'm sorry.
MYRA: Why? What's wrong?
JEWELER: ( personal emotion mixed You are a valued customer, as you But what's wrong?
MYRA: But what's wrong?
JEWELER: I can't understand a thing like this. It's something you almost never see.
MYRA: What is?
JEWELER: ( holding up bracelet ) This is some of the finest filigreed platinum I've ever seen. But the stones, no. They're not diamonds, Mrs. Langtry.
MYRA: But they must be! They cut glass!
JEWELER: ( wry ) Glass will cut glass, Mrs. Langtry. Do you know where it was purchased?
MYRA: It was a gift. It isn't worth anything at all?
JEWELER: ( warm, encouraging ) Why, of course it is. I can offer you well, five hundred dollars.
MYRA: All right.
JEWELER: ( rising ) I'll get you a check.
JEWELER: I hope you're not too badly disappointed with us, Mrs. Langtry.
MYRA: It's not your fault.
JEWELER: You'll give us an opportunity to serve you again, I hope. If there's anything you think we might be interested in.
MYRA: I have only one thing now. Are you Well, I'd have to see it, of You are seeing it. You're looking right at it.
JEWELER: Well, I'd have to see it, of You are seeing it. You're looking right at it.
MYRA: You are seeing it. You're looking right at it.
JEWELER: I see.
JEWELER: You know something, Mrs. Langtry? A bracelet like that very rarely happens. A fine setting and workmanship usually mean precious stones. It always hurts me when I find they're not. I always hope I'm mistaken.
MYRA: Thank you. For everything you felt you could do.
COP: Sir? Everything all right?
ROY: Getting better. A bad shrimp, I
COP: Want us to take you to a doctor?
ROY: No no, I'm fine now, thanks, anyway. Still got a lot of clients to see.
COP: Take it easy, now.
ROY: Oh, I will.
SIMMS: Put it this way, now. Say I rent to a woman, well, she has to have a room with a bath. I insist on it, because otherwise she's got the hall bath tied up all the time, washing her goddamn hair and her clothes and everything she can think of.
SIMMS: Now, your minimum for a room with bath is three hundred a month, just for a place to sleep and no cooking And just how many of these tootsies make that kind of money and have to eat in restaurants and buy clothes
ROY: Mr. Simms.
SIMMS: ( fawning ) Why yes, Mr. Dillon. Here's a potential new neighbor, looking at
ROY: ( uninterested ) Uh-huh. Mrs. Langtry may drop by.
SIMMS: I'll send her right up.
SIMMS: I had my first hotel thirty-seven years ago in Wichita Falls, Texas, and that's where I began to learn about women. They just don't make the money, you see, not regular they don't, and there's only one way they can get it.
SIMMS: Now, that Mr. Dillon there, that's the fine type of person I have in mind for here. Like yourself, I have no doubt. He's a salesman, regular as clockwork, has a suite here. Fine man. Now, about these women. At first, you know, they just go out and do it now and then, just enough to make ends meet. But pretty soon they got that bank open twenty-four hours a day, and then you've got trouble. Hookers and hotellin' just don't mix. You'd think the cops'd be too busy catching real criminals, not snooping around after working girls, but that's the way the gravy stains, as the saying is, and I don't fight it. An ounce of prevention is my motto.
SIMMS: Oh, yes, Mrs. Langtry, he's up there, he's expecting you.
SIMMS: If you keep out the women in the first place, see, you keep out the hookers, and then you keep out the cops, and that's how you have a clean place.
ROY: Your medicine is here.
MYRA: ( amused by clothing ) Well, well. In a real hurry, are Always, for you, baby.
ROY: Always, for you, baby.
MYRA: You aren't taking me for granted, are you?
ROY: Taking you for granite?
ROY: That isn't granite. If that fell on me, it wouldn't hurt at all.
MYRA: ( playing along ) Are you sure?
ROY: ( pulling her close ) Let's find out.
LILLY: I'm done here. Do I come back to Bobo wants you to go on to Delmar.
IRV: Bobo wants you to go on to Delmar.
LILLY: Delmar? I never go out to California. That's a thousand miles from here.
IRV: Nine hundred. Bobo needs somebody to handle playback this time. Come on, Lilly, you don't argue with I know.
LILLY: ( fatalistic ) I know.
IRV: Take two, three days. Call when you get there.
LILLY: Maybe I'll swing around Los Ang gleez on the way.
MYRA: Look at me.
ROY: Look at me.
MYRA: Look at me.
ROY: Oh, I am, baby, believe me.
MYRA: Roy? It this all we have?
ROY: All? It ain't bad.
MYRA: No more than this?
ROY: What are you talking abut, Myra? I didn't say that. You aren't marriage material.
MYRA: I didn't say that. You aren't marriage material.
MYRA: What's that?
ROY: Ow! Hey, what are you trying to do, throw me off my game?
MYRA: ( laughing ) No, baby. Come to Mama.
MYRA: Wore you out, did I? It's a good woman you can't keep down, baby.
MYRA: Have a good sleep, baby. Call you
ROY: Wait'll next year.
ROY: Damn that guy.
ROY: He looks away, right hand moving minimally on left hand.
ROY: He lifts the right hand, nods, then flips the coin again, looks away, moves the right hand slightly.
ROY: Again he's right. Again he repeats.
ROY: He's about to repeat when a wave of weakness comes over him. He sits back, gasping, but won't acknowledge the problem. He forces himself to flip the coin, misses catching it, finds it on the blanket, flips it again, slaps it onto the back of the other hand, looks away.
ROY: Right again. He prepares to flip the coin, but then his hand sags onto the covers, his chin drops, his eyes glaze.
ROY: ( whispered ) How much can I bet?
DEALER: That's between you two. I got nothing at stake here, I'm just What if we both guess wrong? You aren't gonna take.
SHILL: What if we both guess wrong? You aren't gonna take.
ROPER: We got him now! Put down that big bill you got.
ROY: ( whispered ) The fifty or the hundred?
ROPER: The hundred! Hurry!
ROY: ( doubtful ) The ace is what I want?
ROPER: Sure it is!
ROY: Is that okay?
SHILL: You're damn right that's okay.
DEALER: ( picks up the cards ) Whoever finds the ace, wins.
ROY: ( whispered ) Dark in here.
ROY: Too dark. I just can't see.
ROY: Let me borrow these, will you?
ROY: Now, that's better.
MINTZ: I didn't teach you that.
ROY: ( whispered ) You taught me a lot. Then I Let me see how you did that one.
ROY: Let me see how you did that one.
MINTZ: Scram. Go home.
ROY: I can't. I just left home.
MINTZ: You're too young. You should be in I am in school.
ROY: I am in school.
MINTZ: Where's the five?
ROY: In your other hand.
LILLY: ( hesitant )
LILLY: Roy? You asleep?
ROY: She moves forward to the side of the bed, only her torso IN FRAME. She touches a hand to his forehead.
LILLY: ( startled ) My God!
ROY: INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY Lilly, hard and fast and urgent, on the phone.
LILLY: Tell the doctor I work for Bobo Justus, and this is an emergency. Don't worry, he knows who Bobo is.
ROY: Go away, Lilly. Go away.
DOCTOR: ( lugubrious ) The ambulance is on the way, for what good it will do.
LILLY: What? He's going to be all right!
DOCTOR: Mrs. Dillon, your son was in some sort of accident. He's had an internal hemorrhage, he's bleeding to death inside.
LILLY: Well, make it stop!
DOCTOR: His blood pressure is under a hundred. I don't think he'll live to get to the hospital.
LILLY: ( icy, stern ) You know who I work for.
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, but that's
LILLY: My son will be all right. If he isn't, I'll have you killed.
CLERK: ( handing key ) Your kid's in the back here. He's Roy? He's always crying.
LILLY: Roy? He's always crying.
CLERK: ( sympathetic to Roy ) The kids beat him up, because his home life is, uh, different.
LILLY: ( ironic ) I like you, too.
CLERK: Roy, your mother's here.
LILLY: So what's your story today?
ROY: They twisted my arm.
LILLY: ( laughing lightly ) Only one arm?
ROY: They knocked out my tooth!
LILLY: Only one tooth?
ROY: You always say that!
LILLY: Come on, kid, let's see if there's any food in the house.
CLERK: ( there's no food )
LILLY: Yes. I imagine you're lots of people's friend.
MYRA: Oh, of course, now that I see you in the light, you're plenty old enough to be Roy's mother.
LILLY: ( sweet smile ) Aren't we all?
ROY: ( very weak, but amused ) Play nice. Don't fight.
MYRA: Roy. You're going to be all right.
LILLY: Roy. You're going to be all right.
ROY: Sure I am. What made you turn up, after all these years?
LILLY: I'm working down in San Diego. Just for a few weeks. Thought I'd drop in on my long-lost Nice to see you. What am I doing in here?
ROY: ( cold ) Nice to see you. ( turns to Myra ) What am I doing in here?
MYRA: You were bleeding inside, honey. Remember that bruise you had?
ROY: You called the doctor, huh?
MYRA: ( reluctant ) Well, no, Roy. Your mother found ( tossing It away ) Oh, yeah? ( very casual, to Lilly ) ( back to Myra ) How long do they say I'm in here?
ROY: ( tossing It away ) Oh, yeah? ( very casual, to Lilly ) ( back to Myra ) How long do they say I'm in here?
MYRA: Roy. Your mom saved your life.
ROY: Yeah? Only one life?
LILLY: Second time I gave it to you.
ROY: I was kind of. inconvenient. for Lilly.
LILLY: Well. You're all right now, I guess. I have to get down to the Thanks, uh, Lilly.
ROY: ( reluctant, but it's Thanks, uh, Lilly.
LILLY: ( awkward laugh ) Don't mention it.
ROY: I guess I owe you my life.
LILLY: ( faint smile ) You always did.
MYRA: "Down to the track?"
ROY: Her job.
MYRA: ( bright smile ) I want to know everything about ( easy grin ) You do. And once I'm out of here, I'll remind you of the best parts.
ROY: ( easy grin ) You do. And once I'm out of here, I'll remind you of the best parts.
MYRA: ( angry, but defensive ) You heard the shower, didn't you?
MANAGER: I don't care about that. This time, I gotta have the rent.
MYRA: Joe, I thought I was gonna be all right by now, I just need a little It isn't the owner, Myra, it's my wife. She knows what's going on. This time, I gotta have the money.
MANAGER: It isn't the owner, Myra, it's my wife. She knows what's going on. This time, I gotta have the money.
MYRA: Joe, you know you'll
MYRA: Joe, could we talk it over? Do you want a drink?
MANAGER: My wife sent me here, Myra. For the money. She's waiting.
MYRA: I'll have it tonight. Nine o'clock? This time.
MANAGER: ( trying to be determined ) This time.
MYRA: We'll work something out, Joe.
MYRA: I don't see why you're still here. You look healthy to me.
ROY: I just do what the doctor says, You're just comfortable, that's all. You don't even ask to go home. You just lie around, let your mama take care of you.
MYRA: You're just comfortable, that's all. You don't even ask to go home. You just lie around, let your mama take care of you.
ROY: ( truly astonished ) Who else is paying for all this? You badmouth the woman all the time, but you sure do take the payoffs she gives you.
MYRA: Who else is paying for all this? You badmouth the woman all the time, but you sure do take the payoffs she gives you.
ROY: ( insulted ) I'll pay Lilly back, don't you worry about that.
MYRA: I don't like to come here, Roy. Every time I do, your mother comes in and makes remarks.
ROY: That's just Lilly's way.
MYRA: And you never defend me. You're afraid of her.
ROY: Oh, don't be stupid.
MYRA: You're a mama's boy, if you want the truth.
ROY: Are you kid ? I hadn't even seen her in seven years!
LILLY: Should my ears be burning?
MYRA: ( surly ) They might as well.
LILLY: I heard those skirts were coming
MYRA: Get well soon.
ROY: ( easy ) Every day in every way.
MYRA: I'll see you when you get home.
ROY: What happened to your hand?
LILLY: ( casually dismissive ) Just a little accident. I went by your place, picked up your mall. Just bills, I'll take care of them.
ROY: I can take care of my own bills, Whatever you say. The manager says your boss called. Really pulled the wool over everybody's eyes, huh?
LILLY: ( indifferent shrug ) Whatever you say. The manager says your boss called. ( crooked grin ) Really pulled the wool over everybody's eyes, huh?
ROY: What are you talking about? So I've got a job. So what?
LILLY: Stop kidding me! Four years in a town like Los Ang-gleez, and a peanut selling job is the best you can do? You expect me to believe It's there. The boss called, you said so yourself.
ROY: ( spreads hands; it's It's there. The boss called, you said so yourself.
LILLY: And that dump you live in! Those clown pictures on the walls!
ROY: I like those.
LILLY: You do not! Roy Dillon? Cornball clown pictures? Commission salesman? It's all a front, isn't it? You're on the grift, I know you are. You're working some angle, and don't tell me you're not because I wrote the book!
ROY: ( defensive ) You're one to talk. Still running playback money for the mob.
LILLY: That's me. That's who I am. You were never cut out for the rackets, Roy, and if you
ROY: How come?
LILLY: You aren't tough enough.
ROY: Not as tough as you, huh?
LILLY: ( dead serious ) No. And you have to be.
LILLY: You asked me about this. You really want to know what happened?
ROY: Up to you.
LILLY: My boss is a guy named Bobo Justus, back in Baltimore. When a long shot gets too much action, I have to put money on that horse at the track, because it's the only way to get the odds down.
ROY: The first day of the Delmar meet, there was a nag called Bluebell. I should have been on it. But that was the day after you came in here, so I stuck around to see how you were gonna be.
LILLY: The first day of the Delmar meet, there was a nag called Bluebell. I should have been on it. But that was the day after you came in here, so I stuck around to see how you were gonna be.
LILLY: That was my choice, nothing to do with you. I took a chance, and it didn't work out.
ROY: Bluebell came in?
LILLY: I sent Bobo ten grand of my own money, like it was the winnings from my bets. I hoped that would cover me. It didn't.
LILLY: Hi, Bobo.
BOBO: Did I buy you that dress, you piece of shit?
LILLY: Well, I guess so. You're the guy I work for.
BOBO: You work for me, huh? Then I just may flush you down the toilet. Drive me to the Durando.
BOBO: Lilly's eyes briefly close, her shoulders sag. Then she goes back to the silent alert person she'd been. Bobo nods.
BOBO: How'd you figure you were gonna get away with that?
LILLY: I'm not getting away with anything, You're fuckin right you're not. How much did your pals cut you in for on that nag, huh? Or did they give you the same kind of screwing you gave me?
BOBO: You're fuckin right you're not. How much did your pals cut you in for on that nag, huh? Or did they give you the same kind of screwing you gave me?
LILLY: I was down on that horse, Bobo. Not as much as I should have been, but there was a lot of action on those
BOBO: One question. Do you want to stick to that story, or do you want to keep your teeth?
LILLY: I want to keep my teeth.
BOBO: Now I'll ask you another. You think I got no contacts out here? That nag paid off at just the opening price. There wasn't hardly a flutter on the tote board from the time the odds were posted. There ain't enough action to tickle the tote, but you claim a ten grand You send me ten thousand dollars, like I'm some mark you can blow Bobo, no, I
LILLY: ( terrified, broken ) Bobo, no, I
BOBO: You wanna talk to me straight up?
LILLY: My son
BOBO: Your what?
LILLY: My son was in the hospital
BOBO: What the fuck are you doin with a He left home a long time ago. He was in the hospital, up in Los Ang gleez, real sick.
LILLY: He left home a long time ago. He was in the hospital, up in Los Ang gleez, real sick.
BOBO: ( utter scorn ) I never fucked up before, Bobo.
LILLY: I never fucked up before, Bobo.
BOBO: You expect me to buy this?
LILLY: You do buy it, Bobo. I cost you, and I'm sorry.
BOBO: I got a lot of people work for me, Lilly. I can't have shit like this.
LILLY: ( begging ) It'll never happen again. I swear.
BOBO: It happened once. With me, that's making a habit of it.
LILLY: You're calling the shots.
BOBO: You got any kind of long coat in the car? Anything you can wear home over your clothes?
LILLY: ( deadened with fear ) ( doesn't matter ) I'll loan you a raincoat.
BOBO: ( doesn't matter ) I'll loan you a raincoat.
BOBO: ( to the thugs ) Take a walk.
LILLY: You mean, the insurance frammis?
BOBO: Tell me about the oranges, Lilly.
LILLY: You hit a person with the oranges in the towel, they get big, awful looking bruises, but they don't really get hurt, not if you do it right. It's for working scams against insurance companies.
BOBO: And if you do it wrong?
LILLY: It can louse up your insides. You can get puh, puh, puh.
BOBO: ( impatient ) What's that, Lilly?
LILLY: Permanent damage.
BOBO: You'll never shit right again.
BOBO: Almost forgot. That ten grand of yours. It's in the envelope by the Oh, thanks, Bobo.
LILLY: ( tries for animation ) Oh, thanks, Bobo.
BOBO: You want a drink?
LILLY: Gee, I better not, if it's okay. I still gotta drive back up to Los See your son, huh? Well, that's nice. A side of you I didn't know,
BOBO: See your son, huh? Well, that's nice. A side of you I didn't know,
LILLY: He's a good kid. A salesman.
BOBO: On the square, huh? And how are you making out these days? Stealing From you? My folks didn't raise any stupid kids.
LILLY: From you? My folks didn't raise any stupid kids.
BOBO: Not skimming a thing, Lilly?
LILLY: Oh, well, you know. I just clip a buck here and a buck there. Not enough to notice.
BOBO: ( honest approval ) That's right. Take a little, leave a little.
LILLY: A person that don't look out for himself is too dumb to look out for anybody else. He's a liability, right, Bobo?
BOBO: ( this is his creed ) You're a thousand percent right!
LILLY: Or else he's working an angle. If he doesn't steal a little, he's steeling big.
BOBO: You know it, Lilly.
LILLY: You know, I like that suit, Bobo. I don't know what there is about it, but it somehow makes you look Yeah? You really think so? A lot of people been telling me the same Well, you can tell them I said they're right. I better get going. Roy'll wonder where I am.
BOBO: ( delighted ) Yeah? You really think so? A lot of people been telling me the same Well, you can tell them I said they're right. ( looks at sky ) I better get going. Roy'll wonder where I am.
LILLY: Well, you can tell them I said they're right. I better get going. Roy'll wonder where I am.
BOBO: Worries about his mother, eh? Give him a hug for me.
LILLY: I will. So long, Bobo.
LILLY: Lucky! Lucky! Oh, am I lucky.! Am I
ROY: Lucky? You call that lucky?
LILLY: ( simply ) He let me live. He let me be his
ROY: You don't put up with that! Nobody has to put up with that!
LILLY: You do if you're where I am. Where you want to be. How'd you get that punch in the stomach, Roy?
ROY: I tripped over a chair.
LILLY: ( calm maternal advice ) Get off the grift, Roy.
ROY: LILLY ( CONT'D ) ( faint smile )
LILLY: I just give you your life. What you do with it is up to you.
ROY: ( his back turned ) That's right.
ROY: Babe, I'm gettin out of here, and that's it. Let's take some time out this weekend, go down to LaJolla, hit the beach, have some fun. Forget all this other stuff, huh?
SIMMS: Your difference between your folded towel and your clean towel is a trip to the laundry. When you're cleaning those bathrooms, what you do, you pick up the towel, you give it a good shake and a good look, and you say to yourself, 'Would I dry myself on this towel?' If the answer's yes, fold it.
MAID: What if it's wet?
SIMMS: Mr. Dillon! Welcome back! You look fine, just fine.
ROY: Thanks, Mr. Simms, I'm feeling I'm glad you're better.
MAID: ( shy ) I'm glad you're better.
SIMMS: You're well liked around here, Mr. Dillon. The entire staff will be pleased to see you're back.
ROY: Well, thank you. And thank them.
SIMMS: Sickness comes to us all, Mister That's true, Mr. Simms.
ROY: That's true, Mr. Simms.
SIMMS: We never know when and we never know why. We never know how. The only blessed thing we know is, it'll be at the most inconvenient and unexpected time. Just when you've got tickets to the World Series. And that's the way the permanent waves.
ROY: Well, I'm back now. I just wanted you to know. Gotta rush.
SIMMS: Happy to see you looking so good.
MAID: Yes, sir.
ROY: ( cheerful, confident ) Whadaya say?
KAGGS: ( uptight, minimal )
CLERK: Roy! Welcome back.
ROY: ( approaching him ) What's going on? This is usually coffee break time.
CLERK: Not since Kaggs showed up.
ROY: ( happily basking ) Hey, yeah, I'm fine, everything's great. What's this Kaggs? Sounds like a disease.
2ND CLERK: It is.
CLERK: Troubleshooter from the main office. Came out here right after you went into the hospital, and he ain't had a kind word for anybody Nobody knows anything but him.
3RD CLERK: Nobody knows anything but him.
CLERK: He chopped off half a dozen salesmen; won't wholesale to them any more.
2ND CLERK: What kind of sense does that make? They're all on commission.
ROY: ( unworried ) You think he'll chop me?
CLERK: If he does, he's crazy.
2ND CLERK: Here he comes!
KAGGS: Kaggs. Home office.
ROY: ( taking his hand ) Roy Dillon.
KAGGS: ( keeping Roy's hand ) I know that. Knew it when I saw you out there. The best salesman here, which isn't saying much. Want to talk to you, Dillon.
ROY: That was a pretty backhanded compliment. If I let people get away with things like that, I wouldn't be a good salesman.
KAGGS: ( brisk ) You're right. I apologize. But I still want to talk to you.
ROY: Lead on.
KAGGS: Take a seat.
KAGGS: When I said you being the best salesman here didn't say much, I meant for us. I know your record with Sarber and Webb, and I'd say you're a top-flight man, but you've had no incentive. No one walking on your heels. Just a lot of half asses, so the tendency's been not to stretch yourself. I'm bouncing the slobs, incidentally.
ROY: ( dry ) So I heard.
KAGGS: Makes no difference to me if they're only on commission. If they don't make good money, they're not giving us good representation, and we can't afford to have them around. Ever supervise salesmen?
ROY: Just myself.
KAGGS: That's right, you've had to supervise yourself. This place needs a sales manager. Somebody who's proved he's a salesman and can handle other salesmen. He'd have a lot of deadwood to clear out, new men to hire. What do you
ROY: Sounds like a good Idea.
KAGGS: I don't know offhand what your best year's been, we can look it up. The idea is, we'll top it by fifteen
ROY: What? Me?
KAGGS: That's just the first year. If you aren't worth a lot more than that the second year, I'll kick you out. What do you say?
ROY: Well, uh. No.
KAGGS: ( astonished ) I can't take that job! I mean, I mean, I can't take it right away. I'm still recuperating, I just dropped in to say hello, see I didn't realize. Yeah, you do look a little pale. How soon will you be ready? A week?
ROY: I can't take that job! I mean, I mean, I can't take it right away. I'm still recuperating, I just dropped in to say hello, see I didn't realize. Yeah, you do look a little pale. How soon will you be ready? A week?
KAGGS: I didn't realize. Yeah, you do look a little pale. How soon will you be ready? A week?
ROY: But you need a man right now. It wouldn't be fair to you to
KAGGS: I take care of the being-fair-to-me department. Things've gone to hell this long, they can go a little
ROY: ( trapped )
KAGGS: See you in a week, Roy. I can call you Roy?
ROY: ( rising ) Oh, sure. Fine.
KAGGS: And I'm Perk. Short for Percy, I'm
ROY: ( distracted )
ROY: This really is it. Union Station.
MYRA: I don't see why we have to take the Because it's comfortable.
ROY: Because it's comfortable.
MYRA: What if we want to drive somewhere while we're there?
ROY: We'll rent a car.
MYRA: Big spender.
ROY: You ain't seen nothin.
ROY: Stretch my legs. Come along?
MYRA: ( unruffled ) See you soon.
ROY: ( unruffled ) See you soon.
ROY: Oh! Ow, I'm sorry! Oh, look, I spilled your drinks!
SOLDIER: That's okay, don't worry about it.
SOLDIER 2: You okay, pal?
ROY: Let me buy you a new round.
SOLDIER: Hey, no, no problem.
SOLDIER 3: You didn't like spill much at all.
ROY: What are those, bloody Marys? Watch this, I'll be back.
SOLDIER 3: ( to Soldier 2 ) Yeah, but it was you like told the sergeant your grandmother was dead.
SOLDIER: ( laughing ) ( to Soldier 3 ) And you jumped right in. ( broad imitation ) I'll drive him, Sarge, he's too ( astonished ) Distraught? You said distraught?
SOLDIER 2: ( to Soldier 3 ) And you jumped right in. ( broad imitation ) I'll drive him, Sarge, he's too ( astonished ) Distraught? You said distraught?
SOLDIER 4: ( astonished ) Distraught? You said distraught?
ROY: Boy! You guys could've got in a lot of trouble.
SOLDIER 3: Nah. Old Sarge, he's slowing down.
ROY: I don't know. I wouldn't take a chance like that. What's that?
SOLDIER 2: You can't buy every round!
SOLDIER 3: Like our turn!
ROY: Tell you what. We'll roll for it. Low number buys.
ROY: Go ahead. You roll for the four of
SOLDIER 2: Here goes.
SOLDIER 3: That's a four!
ROY: Told you I'd buy.
SOLDIER: It just doesn't seem fair, Tom.
ROY: Tell you what. Give me a chance to get even when I come back.
DRUNK: Pretty woman like you shouldn't eat alone. Whadaya wanna eat alone for?
LILLY: Go away.
WAITRESS: Right away.
DRUNK: We could have coffee together. My name's Kenny.
LILLY: Your pal wants you.
DRUNK: Let him find his own pretty woman.
WAITRESS: This fellow bothering you, Ma'am?
LILLY: ( to the drunk ) Why don't you go sit down?
WAITRESS: ( to the drunk ) Why don't you go sit down?
DRUNK: I'll sit here. Move over.
LILLY: Oh! Are you all right?
FRIEND: You didn't have to do that.
LILLY: ( matter of fact ) I thought I did. You should take better care of your friend.
DRUNK: ( mumbled ) Outta here.
LILLY: I'm sorry a lady can't eat in here without being bothered.
WAITRESS: It won't happen again, Ma'am, I promise. Dinner's on the house. More chili? Dessert? We have lovely pecan pie, my husband makes it That sounds nice. Pecan pie. Thank
LILLY: That sounds nice. Pecan pie. Thank
ROY: You were right, I had to get out of that hospital. Nothing wrong with me any more.
MYRA: ( purring ) I'll sign that affidavit.
ROY: Great to get away, take it easy. Next week, I'll get back to work.
MYRA: You already went back to work.
ROY: ( confused ) ( indulgent smile ) I watched you. Working the tap on those soldier boys.
MYRA: ( indulgent smile ) I watched you. Working the tap on those soldier boys.
ROY: ( elaborate innocence ) Working the what?
MYRA: Oh, come on, Roy.
MYRA: The tap. What you do for a living.
ROY: I'm a salesman.
MYRA: You're on the grift. Same as me.
ROY: ( demonstrating patience ) Myra, I'm not following this.
MYRA: ( demonstrating Roy, you're a short-con operator. And a good one, I think. Don't talk to me like I'm another square.
ROY: You talk the lingo. What's your The long end. Big con.
MYRA: The long end. Big con.
ROY: ( shaking his head ) Nobody does that single-o.
MYRA: I was teamed ten years with the best in the business. Cole Langley.
ROY: I've heard the name.
MYRA: It was beautiful. And getting better all the time.
ROY: ( skeptical ) Is that right?
MYRA: ( enthusiasm building ) It is, Roy! And now, right now, it's the perfect time, the best time since I've been in the game.
COLE: Mary Beth! As beautiful as ever.
COLE: ( gentle disapproval ) I see you brought a friend.
MYRA: Mister Hebbing is my bodyguard, my strong right arm. Gloucester Hebbing, may I present my fine stockbroker, Henry Fellowes.
COLE: ( to Myra; gentle warning ) Mary Beth, what we have here, uh.
MYRA: ( gaily innocent ) Oh, I told Mister Hebbing all about it, how brilliant you are at making money for your special clients!
COLE: ( alarmed ) Mary Beth, I hope you aren't spreading this good news too Well, of course not! I know how dangerous this is. But I would trust Mister Hebbing with anything. ( to Hebbing; suggestive ) Wouldn't I, darling?
MYRA: Well, of course not! I know how dangerous this is. But I would trust Mister Hebbing with anything. Wouldn't I, darling?
COLE: Well, I'll have to take your word for it, Mary Beth. Here's your
MYRA: ( innocent avarice )
MYRA: Isn't that just beautiful?
HEBBING: Yes, it is.
MYRA: Henry, next time, couldn't Mister Mary Beth! This has never been anything but
COLE: ( shocked ) Mary Beth! This has never been anything but
MYRA: Oh, I know, I know, and you've been wonderful since I was widowed. But Mister Hebbing has you don't mind my telling him, suffered reverses. If he
HEBBING: Top up the tanks, as It were. Until this little glitch in the oil economy comes to an end. Not that I understand exactly what you do, not from Mary Beth's
COLE: Well. If Mary Beth vouches for you, and if she told you the story So here we are!
MYRA: ( girlish laugh ) So here we are!
COLE: ( solemn ) Mister Hebbing, we are talking about breaking the law here, I want to be sure you understand that. No one gets hurt, but the law does get ( a real sport; laughing ) Well, that's what the law's for, isn't it?
HEBBING: ( a real sport; laughing ) Well, that's what the law's for, isn't it?
COLE: ( still serious ) And I don't just mean the SEC. We could have the FBI breathing down our necks.
HEBBING: ( suddenly serious ) I certainly hope not.
COLE: Loose talk is the one thing I worry I can keep my mouth shut, Mister Okay, then. Sit down, sit down.
HEBBING: I can keep my mouth shut, Mister Okay, then. Sit down, sit down.
COLE: Okay, then. Sit down, sit down.
COLE: The Tokyo Exchange is nine hours ahead of us, New York one hour behind. There isn't one hour of the day when both are open. Information moves, but it has to wait. Now, we have a young fellow working here Do you know what a hacker is, Mister Hebbing?
HEBBING: One of those computer geniuses, isn't it?
COLE: You're right! And this boy tapped into that main link between Tokyo and the New York Stock Exchange. He can give us, when it's really useful, a seven second delay in that movement of information. Do you know what that means?
HEBBING: Well, you've got your information ahead of New York, I see that.
COLE: Every once in a while, a major change comes through. We have seven seconds to take advantage, put our buy order, our sell order, into the computer in New York before the Tokyo data comes in.
HEBBING: Not much time.
COLE: We have to be ready. We have to have the money, and we have to know what the information means, and we have to move immediately.
HEBBING: ( impressed ) Seven seconds. I don't see how you do it.
COLE: These machines They're in here.
COLE: Want a look?
MYRA: Oh, Henry, no, that's just boring.
COLE: Come take a look. An entire-suite of main-frame computer.
COLE: It's quite a sight. You sure?
MYRA: Henry, don't try Mister Hebbing's patience. He knows what machines look like.
COLE: Well, if you're sure.
MYRA: He didn't think they were risks. He was so good, Roy, he could just play with the mark.
ROY: And when he got serious?
MYRA: He'd explain he had to have cash, so there wouldn't be any paper trail for the SEC. And a lot of cash, or it wasn't worth while. The least we ever took was forty thousand, and the most was one hundred eighty-five thousand dollars! From one sucker!
ROY: I thought these people were broke.
MYRA: No, no, Roy, just cash poor. They had savings accounts, stocks to sell, houses to mortgage. Sell their wife's jewelry. Oh, they had a lot of money, when they put their minds to it. Or when I put their minds to it. I stayed with them, that's the roper's job, made them get up every penny they could raise, turn it all over to Cole.
ROY: And a month later, the sucker calls the cops and you're on the run.
MYRA: No no! He never calls the cops, not after we give him the blow-off.
ROY: Yeah? How?
COLE: Here you are! Two rich people!
HEBBING: I must admit, Mister Fellowes, I had moments I was worried.
COLE: You brought a case? Good.
MAN: Hold it right there!
COLE: ( cool outrage ) What? This is a private office!
MAN: FBI! Stock fraud, tampering with Exchange communications
COLE: Oh, my God! No! The scandal!
SECOND MAN: Your name?
HEBBING: My ? I don't I only
COLE: ( screams at Myra ) You! You and your goddamn big ( terrified ) Henry, no, I
KYRA: ( terrified ) Henry, no, I
COLE: Who did you tell? Who?
MYRA: Just one or two of the girls, just, they wouldn't
COLE: Don't move!
MAN: Mister Fellowes, that isn't going to do you any good. Put that down,
COLE: You ruined me! You destroyed me!
MYRA: Henry, no!
COLE: Get back! Get back!
COLE: I'll kill the first one that follows me!
MYRA: Oh, Roy, it was great! We were rolling in dough, lived wherever we wanted, only pulled two or three scams a year.
ROY: What happened to Cole?
MYRA: ( suddenly evasive ) He retired.
ROY: Upstate where?
MYRA: Upstate where?
ROY: Upstate where?
MYRA: That's where they keep the criminally insane, isn't it?
ROY: That's where they keep the criminally insane, isn't it?
MYRA: No, baby. Not again.
COLE: It's hollow. You'll fall through.
MYRA: Cole, it'll be all right. Honey?
COLE: ( frightened but Can't move.
MYRA: It's just the strain again, the stress. We'll take a vacation.
COLE: It's all hollow. Nothing behind it.
MYRA: Cole, you scare me when this happens. One of these times.
COLE: Demon! Demon! That's why you can walk on it! Demon!
MYRA: ( heartbroken ) Oh, Cole, please. Please come out of it. What would I do without you?
MYRA: He retired, and that's it. But I didn't. I'm still the best long-con roper you'll ever see.
ROY: I just bet you are, too. And now you're trying to rope me.
MYRA: ( pushing enthusiasm ) Join up with you! I watched you, Roy, I've been watching you, wondering if I should talk about this at all, or maybe just. ( shrug )
ROY: Take a hike, you mean?
MYRA: I need a partner, Roy. I need an inside man, and you're it. You could be as wonderful as Cole.
ROY: ( dubious ) I don't know, Myra, I never had partners. I never needed them.
MYRA: Not to take soldiers for a hundred bucks. But how about taking a bank president for a hundred grand?
MYRA: Think about it. Okay?
ROY: ( easy to promise )
MYRA: ( coy, sexy ) See you later.
ROY: I still don't see why we have to have separate rooms. You expect your father to come through?
MYRA: Separate bathrooms, darling. I will not lay out all my cosmetics for you to knock over.
ROY: ( nevertheless grumpy ) Things a man isn't supposed to ( soothing ) You don't mind, really, do you, Roy? It's been such a wonderful evening, I guess I just wore myself Sure. I'm pretty tired myself.
MYRA: ( soothing ) You don't mind, really, do you, Roy? It's been such a wonderful evening, I guess I just wore myself Sure. I'm pretty tired myself.
ROY: Sure. I'm pretty tired myself.
ROY: Long con. I'm the one's been conned. Who needs this?
ROY: MYRA ( V.O. ) ( filtered )
ROY: ( grins; gets it ) What for?
MYRA: ( coquettish ) I hope you don't mind, sir. I just washed my clothes, and I couldn't do a thing with them.
ROY: You I don't know.
MYRA: ( sudden burst of laughter )
ROY: Oh, come here.
LILLY: Roy! What are you doing in San Myra and me come down to LaJolla for the weekend.
ROY: ( entering ) Myra and me come down to LaJolla for the weekend.
LILLY: If you come out to the track, don't know me.
ROY: We won't hit the track. The beach. Couple a nice restaurants.
LILLY: What's that?
ROY: Four grand. For the hospital. Is that enough?
LILLY: ( distressed ) Roy, I don't want money from you.
ROY: I pay my debts.
LILLY: ( level skeptical look ) You do?
ROY: Expecting visitors?
LILLY: No. That was the point.
ROY: You ought to put a bandage on that.
LILLY: No can do. Have to dip in and out of my bag too much. Besides, it'll heal in the air.
ROY: She's not used to being vulnerable, can neither hide it nor really express it; can't use it as a tactic.
LILLY: I thought. I was hoping we could play it straight with one another.
ROY: I guess not. You'll be heading east from here, huh?
LILLY: ( dull ) After the meet. Back to Baltimore.
ROY: Well. nice to see you again, You, too, Roy.
LILLY: You, too, Roy.
LILLY: EXT. HOLIDAY INN - DAY Myra sits in the back seat of a taxi parked across the street from the motel. The door to Lilly's room is visible in b.g. Roy walks toward the street from Lilly's room.
DRIVER: Here he comes.
MYRA: I see him.
DRIVER: That's the guy we're following.
MYRA: Just wait.
DRIVER: You're the boss.
BLONDE: You stay down real good.
ROY: One of my talents.
BLONDE: ( pointing upward ) Your mother's calling.
ROY: He gathers up his towel and heads for the building.
ROY: Be right out!
ROY: You were gone for a while.
MYRA: ( casual ) I went out to Delmar.
ROY: ( suddenly wary ) ) The track? Did you run into Lilly?
MYRA: I saw her.
ROY: She didn't see you, in other words.
MYRA: I'm not trying to make trouble, Roy. It's just, she's always so nasty to me, I thought, who is she to be so high and mighty. I saw her out there, and I called a friend of mine in Baltimore, so now I know who she is.
ROY: ( dry ) You must have some very knowledgeable friends.
MYRA: I'm well connected, Roy, Cole introduced me to a lot of people. Very valuable. Valuable for us.
ROY: Running your broker scam, you mean.
MYRA: ( enthusiastic ) You and me, Roy. What a team we'll make. We think alike; we get along Once or twice a year we take some slob, the rest of the time we live like this. You won't regret this, Regret what? I didn't say I was coming aboard.
ROY: Regret what? I didn't say I was coming aboard.
MYRA: But why not? I thought it was settled. What's holding you back?
ROY: Come on, Myra, don't talk business here. This is time out.
MYRA: You mean, it would be too tough to give me a turndown here. Easier on home grounds.
ROY: ( shrug ) Yes or no. They're both easier at home. Okay?
MYRA: Whatever you say, darling.
KAGGS: RECEPTIONIST ( V.O. )
KAGGS: Good! Send him in.
KAGGS: Good to have you back, Roy. I was just looking at
ROY: Mr. Kaggs, I'm sorry.
KAGGS: ( keen ) You're turning me down? Makes no sense, Roy.
ROY: I guess I'm just not a leader of Oh, come on, Roy.
KAGGS: Oh, come on, Roy.
ROY: The truth is, Mr. Kaggs
KAGGS: Perk, remember?
ROY: Okay, fine. Perk, the truth is, I like things the way they are now. Pick my own hours, have time for, uh, other activities.
KAGGS: A well-rounded life. I respect that. But it has to have a center, Roy, something you care about, something you can think about.
ROY: Maybe I'm just not ready for that Well, Roy, if that's the way you feel, I won't badger you. Don't want to lose you as a salesman, too.
KAGGS: ( deep sigh ) Well, Roy, if that's the way you feel, I won't badger you. ( forced laugh ) Don't want to lose you as a salesman, too.
ROY: Oh, I'd like to stay on. Just keep everything the way it was.
KAGGS: That's what we'll do, then. But I tell you what, Roy. Before I hire anybody else, I'll ask you one last time. Fair enough?
ROY: Fair enough.
MYRA: Darling, guess what? I had to tell you right away.
ROY: ( grinning ) And hello to you, too.
MYRA: I called a fellow I know in Tulsa, the one who plays my chauffeur. There's a sucker there he says is made for us. And a boroker that just shut down, we can use their office, not change a thing! Now, I can scrape up ten grand without much trouble. That leaves fifteen or twenty for your end. We could start this weekend, get the sucker into position
ROY: Wait a minute! When did this happen, that we're partners?
MYRA: ( bewildered ) The last I looked, we were just talking things over.
ROY: The last I looked, we were just talking things over.
MYRA: But the setup's there. It's there I don't think I need it.
ROY: I don't think I need it.
MYRA: You're too good for the small-time, Roy. Move up to where there's big dough to be made, and you don't have to stick your neck out every Maybe I like it where I am.
ROY: Maybe I like it where I am.
MYRA: Well, maybe I don't! I had ten good years with Cole, and I want them back! I gotta have a partner! I looked and I looked and believe me, brother, I kissed a lot of fucking frogs, and you're my prince!
ROY: Don't I get any say in this?
MYRA: No! Because I
ROY: ( pointing at her ) That's what I say.
MYRA: ( thrown off course ) What I say is, no. We don't do ( raging ) For Christ's sake, why not?
ROY: What I say is, no. We don't do For Christ's sake, why not?
ROY: Mostly, because you scare the shit out of me. I've seen people like you before, baby. Double-tough and sharp as they come, and you get what you want or else. But you don't make it work forever.
MYRA: No; history. Sooner or later, the lightning hits. I don't want to be around when it hits you.
ROY: No; history. Sooner or later, the lightning hits. I don't want to be around when it hits you.
MYRA: What is it? What's going on?
ROY: I'm happy the way I am.
MYRA: By God, it's your mother. It's Sure it is. That's why you act so funny around each other.
ROY: ( doesn't get it ) ) Sure it is. That's why you act so funny around each other.
MYRA: Sure it is. That's why you act so funny around each other.
ROY: What's that?
MYRA: Don't act so goddamned innocent! You and your own mother, gah! You like to go back where you been,
ROY: You watch that mouth.
MYRA: I'm wise to you, I should have seen it before, you rotten son of a bitch. How is it, huh? How do you
ROY: How do you like this?
MYRA: He suddenly gets control of himself, releases her, steps back into the middle of the room. He's angry, but also remorseful, sorry he lost control but still enraged at the enormity of her suggestion.
STOP!!: He suddenly gets control of himself, releases her, steps back into the middle of the room. He's angry, but also remorseful, sorry he lost control but still enraged at the enormity of her suggestion.
ROY: That's not like me. I don't do
ROY: That's why we wouldn't work together. You're disgusting. Your mind's so filthy, it's hard even to look at you.
ROY: Goodbye, Myra.
MYRA: And you don't even know it.
MYRA: Mama. It's Mama. She's the one.
MYRA: You'll get yours, Mama. Oh, yes.
LILLY: A sudden smile doesn't entirely hide the wariness.
LILLY: Roy! An unexpected pleasure.
ROY: Lilly, I've got a couple things to think about. Well, kind of job offers, kind of. Different ways to go. I'd kind of like to talk them out, you know? Maybe just hear myself talk.
LILLY: Well, sure, Roy. You want me to drive up ? Okay, fine, come on It won't be a home-cooked meal, you Well, that's good news.
ROY: ( kidding ) Well, that's good news.
ROY: Well? Who's a boy gonna talk to, if not his mother?
LILLY: ( expecting rejection )
IRV: Lilly, listen, it's Irv. You were always decent with me, I'm taking a hell of a chance here. Somebody blew you out with Bobo. The car full of money. He's
ROY: INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT Empty; as before. The door opens and the two thugs we saw earlier with Bobo enter, one putting a thick ring of keys away in his jacket pocket. They close the door, look around the room. One goes to the closet, opens it, looks at the clothing inside, while the other goes into the bathroom. The first crosses to the dresser, pulls open a drawer full of clothing. The second comes out of the bathroom. They look at one another. The guy from the bathroom shakes his head. The other one points at the dangling phone, speaks.
THUG: Somebody spooked her.
SECOND THUG: White Chrysler.
THUG: Full of cash.
ROY: ( disgusted ) Thanks a lot, Lilly.
CLERK: Evening. Welcome to Phoenix.
LILLY: Good evening. I'd like a single for Oh, everything's the same size, same price.
CLERK: Oh, everything's the same size, same price.
LILLY: I'm a very light sleeper, traffic noise keeps me wide awake all Those trucks. I know exactly what you mean.
CLERK: ( sympathetic ) Those trucks. I know exactly what you mean.
LILLY: Do you have something around back, facing away from the road?
CLERK: I'll put you in one thirty-one. Very quiet. Faces the desert.
LILLY: Sounds perfect. I can park my car back there?
CLERK: Right in front of the room.
LILLY: She starts to fill in the registration card.
LILLY: And I'll want to leave an early wake-up call.
CLERK: No problem. My husband gets up the crack of dawn. It's his kidneys.
CLERK: Something wrong? I'm sorry. I thought you were the other lady.
MYRA: No. I'm me.
CLERK: I'll give you one oh seven. That's a very nice room, very handy, in the front, right by the pool.
MYRA: Oh, don't you have something around back, where it's quieter?
CLERK: Everybody wants the back tonight.
MYRA: I guess everybody wants privacy.
PIERSON: Roy Dillon?
ROY: Lieutenant Pierson, Phoenix police. I have a car here.
PIERSON: Lieutenant Pierson, Phoenix police. I have a car here.
ROY: Thank you.
PIERSON: I realize this is a shock.
ROY: Well, mostly, I don't believe it.
PIERSON: That's natural.
ROY: No. I mean, I don't believe it. Lilly is not a suicide. I know my mother, nothing would make her check out.
PIERSON: I'm sorry, it was her all right. Her gun, even.
ROY: I grant you, it's a little odd, shoot yourself with a gun with a silencer on it, but it was hers, all right. It really is your mother, Mister Dillon.
PIERSON: I grant you, it's a little odd, shoot yourself with a gun with a silencer on it, but it was hers, all right. It really is your mother, Mister Dillon.
ROY: It may be Lilly, but it isn't Do you have any particular reason to say that?
PIERSON: ( interested ) Do you have any particular reason to say that?
ROY: My mother. Well, I guess it doesn't matter now. She worked for gamblers. She always knew they might turn on her some day.
PIERSON: ( thoughtful ) A hit, you mean. Honestly, it doesn't have that feel to it, but I'll certainly consider the possibility. Thank you for telling
ROY: Not that it matters. This is the morgue?
PIERSON: You up to it now?
ROY: Sure. Let's get it over.
PIERSON: One thing I have to caution you about. A gunshot wound.
ROY: ( impatient ) Yes, I know, I know.
PIERSON: ( reluctant ) Well, uh, you know, she ate the ( not understanding ) I'm sorry, that's an unfortunate phrase, it slipped out, I'm, to tell you the truth, Mr. Dillon, this isn't an everyday occurrence around here.
ROY: ( not understanding ) I'm sorry, that's an unfortunate phrase, it slipped out, I'm, to tell you the truth, Mr. Dillon, this isn't an everyday occurrence around here.
PIERSON: I'm sorry, that's an unfortunate phrase, it slipped out, I'm, to tell you the truth, Mr. Dillon, this isn't an everyday occurrence around here.
ROY: ( low; getting it ) Ate the gun. Oh.
PIERSON: Someone who knows her well could still identify her, that's not the problem. It's just there's, uh, it's likely to be a shock.
ROY: ( opening the door ) Well, let's get the shock over
ROY: Not many laughs in this room, eh?
PIERSON: Not many.
ROY: Oh, Jesus.
PIERSON: No question, huh?
ROY: No, its Why did she?
ROY: ( starting to grin ) Oh, yeah. That's that.
SIMMS: The last modern thing I liked was the miniskirt. Your technology, now, nobody understands it, and that's the simple fact of the
SIMMS: ( calling ) ) Evening, Mizz Langley!
SIMMS: New things come in here all the time, how do they work? You can ask your Ph.Ds, your highly educated, intelligent, professional people, you can say to them, how does that work, and you know what they'll tell you? You plug it in. And that's the way the donut dunks.
LILLY: Oh! Roy! You scared me.
ROY: Going somewhere?
LILLY: Somewhere else, that's for sure.
ROY: I just came back from Phoenix.
LILLY: ( anxious ) Oh, yeah? Is the frame holding?
ROY: Looks very solid, Lilly. Sit down. Take a minute, tell me about it.
LILLY: I've really got to
ROY: You're dead, Lilly, it worked.
LILLY: Not for long. Not when they do a fingerprint check.
ROY: Why should they? The cops are Bobo won't be. He'll spend the money to make sure.
LILLY: Bobo won't be. He'll spend the money to make sure.
ROY: Even so. You still got time. Relax a minute, tell me what happened. Sit down.
LILLY: Just for a minute.
ROY: Myra followed you, huh?
LILLY: She must have been the one that blew me off with Bobo. I guess to get me running. Did you tell her about my stash?
ROY: ( isn't worth discussing ) No, you wouldn't. That's what she was after, though. But why hit on I wouldn't go in on a deal with her. She blamed you for it.
LILLY: No, you wouldn't. That's what she was after, though. But why hit on I wouldn't go in on a deal with her. She blamed you for it.
ROY: I wouldn't go in on a deal with her. She blamed you for it.
LILLY: ( a shaky laugh ) As though you do what I say.
ROY: ( cold grin ) That's pretty funny, all right. What happened in Phoenix?
LILLY: Roy, it was terrible. You read about people killing people and all that, but when it happens, my God.
LILLY: She was in her nightgown, you know, the old grifter's dodge, nightgown and the Ice bucket and she just got into the wrong room by mistake.
LILLY: I sat in there with her, I thought, what do I do now? Run and I've got Bobo and the law after me. Stay, and how do I explain?
ROY: This way's perfect.
LILLY: It is, isn't it? And maybe it's a break for me after all. I've been wanting out of the racket for years, and now I'm out. I can make a clean start, and
ROY: You've already made a start. Doesn't look that clean, though.
LILLY: I'm sorry. I hated to take your money, but
ROY: Don't be sorry. You're not taking
LILLY: I need this, Roy. I can't run without money, and if I can't run I'm dead.
ROY: You must have some money.
LILLY: Just a few bucks.
ROY: And Myra's stuff?
LILLY: ( scornful ) Her credit cards. How far am I gonna get with that?
ROY: Far enough. Maybe up to San Francisco. Or St. Louis, someplace new. Start over.
LILLY: At what?
ROY: You're smart, Lilly, and you're good-looking. You won't have any trouble finding a job.
LILLY: ( appalled ) A job? I've never had a legit job in my life!
ROY: Well, you're gonna start, if you hope to live through this. A square job and a quiet life. You start showing up at the track or the hot spots and Bobo's boys will be all over you.
LILLY: ( exasperated ) Roy, I know what to do with myself! It's a big world out there.
ROY: Not any more. Lilly, listen, I'm giving you good advice. I'm following it myself.
LILLY: ( doesn't get it ) I thought it over, and you were right. You wanted me out of the rackets, and now
ROY: I thought it over, and you were right. You wanted me out of the rackets, and now
LILLY: ( bedeviled, aggravated ) Roy, that's fine, but I don't have time for this. Bobo
ROY: I thought you'd be happy for me. After all, you
LILLY: Bobo isn't after you! Bobo's after me, and he's goddamn good! But so am I. I'm a survivor, Roy. I I know you do, so that's why
ROY: I know you do, so that's why
LILLY: And to survive, my way, I need Bobo knows about the stash in the car, so I didn't dare touch it, not if Lilly Dillon's dead. So that leaves this.
ROY: Lilly sits back again, brooding at Roy, trying to think how to get to him, how to get through him or around him. She sighs, licks her lips.
LILLY: You want a drink?
ROY: I don't think so. You probably shouldn't either.
LILLY: No, but I'm goddamn thirsty. Ice Yeah, sure, that sounds nice.
ROY: Yeah, sure, that sounds nice.
LILLY: I'll get it.
LILLY: Take whichever one you want.
ROY: You wouldn't do that.
LILLY: You don't know what I'd do, Roy. You have no idea. To live.
ROY: ( easy ) Oh, you'll live, Lilly.
LILLY: I know what's bugging you, of Oh? I didn't know anything was.
ROY: Oh? I didn't know anything was.
LILLY: ( twisted grin ) Oh, really? You've got a legitimate complaint, Roy, I don't deny that. I wasn't a very good mother when you were a kid.
ROY: ( full laugh ) Not very good!
LILLY: A bad mother. By any standards. I've thought about it, you know, from your side, since then. I know just how bad I was.
ROY: ( closed against her ) I wonder did you ever think about it from my side.
LILLY: I wonder did you ever think about it from my side.
ROY: ( not worth discussing ) No, I guess not. It was pretty lousy of me, I guess, to be a child at the same time you were. Not to stop being a child just because I had a child. I guess I was a real stinker not to be a grown-up when you needed a grown-up.
LILLY: No, I guess not. It was pretty lousy of me, I guess, to be a child at the same time you were. Not to stop being a child just because I had a child. I guess I was a real stinker not to be a grown-up when you needed a grown-up.
ROY: What do you want me to do? Pin a halo on you? You're doing a pretty good job of that yourself.
LILLY: And making you feel bad at the same time, huh? But that's the way I am, you know, the way I've always been. Always picking on poor little Roy.
ROY: For God's sake, Lilly!
LILLY: ( intense ) I gave you your life twice. I'm asking you to give me mine once. I need the money.
ROY: ( not worth discussing )
LILLY: You're getting off the grift?
ROY: That's right.
LILLY: That's good. You don't really belong on this side of the fence, you know.
ROY: ( amused ) I don't?
LILLY: If you stayed a crook, do you think you'd live to be my ripe age?
ROY: I don't see why not.
LILLY: Well, I guess I got it wrong, then. Seems to me I heard about a guy just your age that got hit so hard in the guts it almost killed him.
ROY: Well, uh.
LILLY: Sure, sure, that doesn't count. That's different.
ROY: Well, it doesn't matter, does it? I'm getting out.
LILLY: ( intense ) And that's why you've got to get rid of this money. If you keep it around, it'll just make you think how clever you are. It'll be a temptation to get back into the game.
ROY: ( full laugh ) Oh, that's it! You're stealing my money for my own good! How very motherly of you, Lilly.
ROY: She looks at him, attentive without hope.
ROY: If I should get out of the racket, that goes double for you. That's why you've got to change your life completely, go to some town, get a square job, live like a john yourself. If you try to do it your way, what future is in it?
LILLY: A future. The only future I've got.
ROY: That money wouldn't last forever. And then what? You'd be back in some other part of the rackets. Another Bobo Justus to slap you around and burn holes in your hands. This way, you've got to go the square route. You could send me a card when you're settled, I could maybe help out sometimes.
LILLY: ( bitter laugh ) ) That's what it is, isn't it? Keep me down. Your turn to be in charge, have the power.
ROY: ( stonewalling ) Just trying to help, Lilly.
LILLY: Roy. What if I told you I wasn't really your mother? That we weren't You'd like that, wouldn't you? Sure you would. You don't need to tell me. Now, why would you like it,
ROY: ( bewildered ) You'd like that, wouldn't you? Sure you would. You don't need to tell me. Now, why would you like it,
LILLY: You'd like that, wouldn't you? Sure you would. You don't need to tell me. Now, why would you like it,
ROY: ( hoarse ) What's that all about? Of course you're my mother. Of course you
LILLY: ( very soft ) Roy. Roy
ROY: There's nothing more to talk about.
LILLY: ( very soft ) I have to have that money, Roy. What do I have to do to get it?
LILLY: No? Won't you give me the money, Roy? Can't I change your mind? What can I do to change your mind?
ROY: Lilly, Jesus, what are you doing?
LILLY: Is there nothing I can do, Roy, nothing at
ROY: They both turn away at the same instant. Roy turns to the side to pick up the glass of water, to break the spell and the tension. Lilly turns back toward the coffee table and picks up the attache case. Roy, lifting the glass to drink, turns forward again as Lilly spins forward, swinging the attache case at his head with all her might. The case crashes into the glass and into his face. Roy SCREAMS and topples off the chair, as the one remaining clasp on the case lets go and money goes flying, filling the air.
NO!: They both turn away at the same instant. Roy turns to the side to pick up the glass of water, to break the spell and the tension. Lilly turns back toward the coffee table and picks up the attache case. Roy, lifting the glass to drink, turns forward again as Lilly spins forward, swinging the attache case at his head with all her might. The case crashes into the glass and into his face. Roy SCREAMS and topples off the chair, as the one remaining clasp on the case lets go and money goes flying, filling the air.
THE END: Writers : Donald E. Westlake
