PALM FRONDS: After a neat they sway, revealing the barren desert that surrounds the artificial oasis. The sun already bakes the air. We hear the opening guitar strains of the Kim Deal-Kurt Cobain suet of "WHAT I DID FOR LOVE," as we CRANE DOWN the palms to
HANDS: Digging dirt out of the grooves of the iron's face with a golf tee, while on the way to the green. Both hands are gloved, instead of one, and the gloves are black.
YELLOW TROUSERS: In a squat over the ball, sizing up the curvy, fifty-foot journey to the hole. The figure positions himself and the putter above the ball, then pops the ball lightly. The ball rolls and bobs with purpose toward the hole, dodging hazards and finding lanes, until it finally falls off of the green and into the hole.
MARTIN'S ARM: Flinches, and a low THUNK reports from the rifle. A second later in the distance, the
MARTIN: Returns the rifle to the bag, pulls out a driver, moves to the tee and whacks the ball. He watches its path and whispers
MARTIN: Hooked it.
MARTIN: Tell me about it. Club Member #1 turns to Martin.
MARTIN: Oh I see. You got your individual slices of hope, dignity, confidence, self-love, justice, and harmony.
MARTIN: So you eat read it everyday?
MARTIN: And these pan pizzas have opened up the doors to heaven?
LAMINATED CARD: As it lays on the asphalt. The wheel of a police car rolls to a stop on it.
DRIVER: How was your day, today, sir?
MARTIN: Effective. But to tell you the truth, I've lost my passion for work.
DRIVER: Do you like the people you work with?
MARTIN: I work alone.
DRIVER: That's it then. That's it. I've always been alone. That's why I'm a good driver. I can handle it. See, I can think on my feet. I survive, I'm a thinker. And I can sit there in front of your house for two hours and it don't bother me. Some people can't do it! Some people are ranting and raving, "Tell them fuckin' people to get out here and get in this car, I can't I want a go!" Where you gonna go? You're gonna wind up back in your garage at seven o'clock at night. You ain't going nowhere. You leave your house in the morning you get back to your house in the evening. What's the big deal, right?
MARTIN: You understand the psychology of the I do. Some guys can't adjust to it; they can't handle it.
DRIVER: I do. Some guys can't adjust to it; they can't handle it.
DRIVER: You look like you're far away. Far away and thinking about other things. I'm right about that, aren't I?
MARTIN: Well, let's just say that sometimes I'm right. Sometimes you are.
DRIVER: Well, let's just say that sometimes I'm right. Sometimes you are.
MARTIN: Sometimes I am. Sometimes. It's only It's only natural.. The Driver pauses for dramatic emphasis
DRIVER: ( laughs to himself at this great truth ) It's only natural.. The Driver pauses for dramatic emphasis
DRIVER: I been looking at you, and I've decided that I want to share something with you.
MARTIN: Because your problem is you're bored. And you have a very big mind. I am part of what I call a brain No reaction from Martin.
DRIVER: Because your problem is you're bored. And you have a very big mind. I am part of what I call a brain No reaction from Martin.
DRIVER: I am part of a network of minds, a group of five people who are all connected, over hundreds, even thousands of miles, through the mind. We can think with each other, think for each other. I can be driving somewhere, sleeping with a woman whatever it is and at the same time be thinking a thought in someone else's mind, far away. Running someone else's brain.
MARTIN: ( indicates ) Up on the right.
DRIVER: And when you think of it, it's not so surprising that a small group of people control the whole world, is INT. HOTEL ROOM, NEW YORK CITY - DAY A sedate and well-appointed four-star suite on the Upper East Side. Martin stands in front of one of the open windows watching the canopied entrance of an elegant high-rise across the street. He lifts an eye rinse cup to his eye and tilts it back. A cellular phone RINGS, interrupting him. He moves to the desk and draws one of three phones from his briefcase, depresses a scrambler module, flips it open, and listens for a moment.
MARTIN: If it's not there, I can't proceed. Tell them. Martin hangs up. Picks up another phone and dials. As he waits for an answer, he goes to a Fed Ex blueprint tube lying on the bed.
MARTIN: Tom. I've been waiting for an answer. I'm only in town tonight. He breaks the shipping seal and pulls out a series of finished metal parts including a long thin barrel, a scope, and a What's different this time than the last time? I have to be down front.
MARTIN: What's different this time than the last time? I have to be down front.
MARTIN: .I don't bother to call anyone else because you always take care of He glances over to a second window to his left, which offers a view further down the street. He goes to it. He raises the scope and sees
MARTIN: Hold on a second, Tom. I got my hands full here. He sets down the phone and answers the other, still watching the messenger.
MARTIN: Good. Account number 3649367, transfer to account number 96-546-38739-47825. Ask for Mr. Sanchez, tell him it's Mr. Duckman. If there are any problems, access file 673594638-IO- 98, and look at it. Martin drops the phone and moves away from Window #2 to the rifle. He mounts the scope and he looks out Window #1 at the MARTIN'S P.O.V./SCOPE - WINDOW #1 Of a DOORMAN opening the door for a group of five men in suits. Four BODYGUARDS form a perimeter around the fifth man, a mall, avuncular figure in his forties dressed in Saville Row finery.
MARTIN: Takes a step back into the shadows of the room, and raises the rifle toward Window #2.
MARTIN: concentrating, tracks the path of the Messenger, leading him left to right across the blind spot of the hotel room wall between Window #2 and Window #1.
STREET: the bicycle Messenger bears down on the group of men, drawing a Mac-10 submachine gun from his bag. The group see him just as Martin's sniper FIRE explodes the Messenger's chest. Two of the Bodyguards collapse onto their boss. The other two open fire on the Messenger as he wipes out horribly into a parked car in front of them.
MARTIN: withdraws from the window, and picks up the phone again and begins to break down the rifle.
MARTIN: Sorry Tom. But look, I know it's the playoffs. That's why I'm offering a thousand dollars for one seat. Martin listens patiently as he works.
DOORMAN'S HANDS: unbuttoning his double-breasted long coat.
MARTIN: just finishes packing.
MARTIN: .Well let me ask you, Tom. What do I have to do to get courtside tickets for the Knicks.?
STREET: The two bodyguards kick at the Messenger's body. The other two begin to move off of their boss, who rises cowering. The Doorman stands behind it all, unbuttoning his coat.
DOORMAN: a tall, dark, sharp-featured man in his forties, wearing a handlebar moustache. He moves toward the group of men as he flips open his coat back over two huge chrome .44 Magnum Charthouse Bulldog revolvers and OPENS FIRE on them.
MARTIN: is closing his bag when he hears the gun-thunder.
MARTIN: Never mind. I gotta go. Martin drops the phone, grabs his scope, and spins to the MARTIN'S P.O.V./SCOPE of the Doorman kicking through the pile of dead bodyguards. He gets to the man at the bottom their boss. The Doorman FIRES both guns.
MARTIN: reacts, surprised to see a second shooter. He pulls himself from the window, puts away his scope, and accelerates his HIGH-RISE FOYER Outside, we see the doorman drop both guns on the pile of bodies. He walks back toward us through the glass doors and makes his way through the building toward the service exit. He sheds his uniform and stuffs it into a plastic bag.
MARTIN: his two parcels in hand, exits out the side door of the hotel and walks down the street.
DOORMAN: now wearing rich man's sweats, hops off the loading dock, walks to a Lincoln Town Car, and drives off.
MARTIN: .Tell them that's not my problem. I was paid for one job the cyclist not two. See you tomorrow, Marcella.
MARCELLA: Wait. I have Mr. Grocer for you.
MARTIN: Patch him through.. Martin notices another Town Car appears in the next lane. We recognize the Doorman behind the wheel, phone in hand. He is
MARTIN: What do you want?
GROCER: I'm setting up a concern that would enable those of us in our rarefied profession to consolidate our efforts.
MARTIN: Like a union?
GROCER: Like a club. Work less, make more.
MARTIN: Thank you, no.
GROCER: We could be working together, making big money, killing important people. I'm willing to let you in on the ground floor.
MARTIN: And you could be. sort of like. a father figure to me.. Grocer ignores this.
GROCER: It's a free-market evolution. You'll wake up to it. c'mon Kid. We used to run together when you were a rookie. I don't want to run against you. This thing's real. Everybody's Not me. So don't paw at me with your dirty little guild.
MARTIN: Not me. So don't paw at me with your dirty little guild.
GROCER: I'm gonna get you, kid. Martin hangs up and pulls away.
VIDEO MONITOR: The drops, huge in the foreground, become smaller as they make their way down the line toward the sleeping man.
MARTIN: adjusts the thread minutely with one hand, and lowers the fiber-optic cable with the other.
VIDEO MONITOR: The face begins to fill the screen as the fiber-optic follows the drops toward it. Suddenly, the man snorts and turns his A DROP FALLS It misses the man's mouth and hit's his cheek.
VIDEO MONITOR: The man's eyes snap open in terror as he looks directly into CAMERA. His image falls away as the fiber-optic is jerked back up through the hole in the floor.
MARTIN: stuffs the apparati into an open duffel bag, and flies out of frame.
MARTIN: Freeze! Police! The Bodyguard hesitates just long enough to get double-tapped through the head.
HUSKY MAN: ( in severe pain ) Whatever it is that I'm doing that you don't like I'll stop doing it.
MARTIN: It's not me. Martin cocks the gun..
MARCELLA: .So come on back to the old oak tree, acorns. Signed, the reunion Marcella holds up the mauve envelope and smiles slyly. For the first time, Martin looks scared.
MARTIN: Throw that away.
MARCELLA: Don't tease me. You know what I do for a living.
MARTIN: Don't tease me. You know what I do for a living.
MARCELLA: It's from one of those P.O. Boxes. How was the trip?
MARTIN: Tedious. I now authorize you to throw away all personal mail.
MARCELLA: All of it?
MARTIN: And not show it to me. Ever again.
MARCELLA: That's going to cost.
MARTIN: I'll pay. Martin begins to walk past her into his office, but Marcella stops him.
MARCELLA: They're not happy, sir.
MARTIN: I'm not happy.
MARCELLA: They say their friend was suppose to have a heart attack and die in his He didn't.
MARTIN: He didn't.
MARCELLA: They blame you for the compromise.
MARTIN: And they want me to make up for it.
MARCELLA: In Detroit. This weekend.
MARTIN: Tell them that's impossible. I need my normal lead time.
MARCELLA: They were very upset.
MARTIN: Would you describe their position as Intractable, sir. You leave tonight. Marcella looks concerned.
MARCELLA: Intractable, sir. You leave tonight. Marcella looks concerned.
MARCELLA: And sir, I also get that broken- mirror, black-cat, Friday-the- thirteenth kind of feeling about this one..
MARTIN: There's nothing to be done about it.
MARCELLA: I liquidated the last account in Zurich, and split it into two new ones in Estonia.
MARTIN: Good. What else? Anything interesting?
MARCELLA: Mmm, not really. But you're gonna love this one. She hands him a piece of paper. He scans it.
MARCELLA: Never enough.
MARTIN: Never enough.
MARCELLA: But it's a Greenpeace boat. It'd be so easy. Martin looks at her wearily. He puts it into the paper shredder at the side of her desk.
MARTIN: I have scruples. Next.
MARCELLA: Paperwork on the Detroit thing. It's a full dossier. Very comprehensive. She raises a thick brown dossier from the top of her desk and puts it down again. Martin moves through a door to his private office.
MARTIN'S OFFICE: Martin goes into his office and sits at his desk. On the walls are a couple of boring prints of tallships. A bookshelf holds trappings of a loose attempt at a cover a few shipping manifests, sealane tables, and other specialized reference books on import/export. He sits and stares.
NEW ANGLE: Time has passed, and Martin still sits at his desk massaging his gums with a rubber-tipped dental pointer.
MARCELLA: ( off-screen ) You should get going..
MARTIN: pulls back his jacket lapel and fits the utensil into a pocket protector that is also home to a toothbrush, emery board, tweezers, and comb. He stands and walks out of his office.
FOYER: Martin moves toward the door. As he passes Marcella she hands him the mauve envelope and a travel portfolio.
MARCELLA: Don't forget your identity.
MARTIN: See you next week. Martin stops short as he reaches the threshold. He holds up the envelope, and stares a dagger through it. On his way out, over his shoulder.
MARTIN: Tell Dr. Oatman I'm on my way.
MARTIN: It's in Michigan. Honestly, what do I have in common with those people? Or with anyone? DR. OATMAN sits in the window. He is Kris Kringle-esque, and wears a sheepskin vest, rough-hewn shirt, faded Levis, and old Frye boots. Oatman nods with the suave understanding of a man happy to collect fifty thousand in fees before asking a tough question.
DR. OATMAN: You went to school with these people.
MARTIN: Come on.
DR. OATMAN: We've spent a lot of time discussing those years. Remember we said that fear is a transfer of the bodily hurt associated by experience with the thing feared, to the thought of the thing. Thus we fear a dog without distinctly imagining its bite.
MARTIN: Shouldn't you be taking notes?
DR. OATMAN: Tell me about your vision of the CLOSE-UP - MARTIN MARTIN'S P.O.V. - FROM ABOVE Of a crowded gymnasium. The alumni below stops what they are doing and look up at Martin, DRAWING GUNS OF ALL SHAPES AND
MARTIN: It'll be depressing.
DR. OATMAN: How do you know?
MARTIN: I just know.
DR. OATMAN: Say more.
MARTIN: They'll have husbands and wives and children and houses and dogs.. made themselves a part of something. And they can talk about what they do. What am I going to say? "I killed the President of Paraguay with a fork." Oatman twitches nervously, almost spilling his coffee.
DR. OATMAN: You needn't be so frank with me about your work.
MARTIN: Why not. I trust you. You couldn't turn me in because of Doctor-Patient privilege. and I don't want to be "withholding". and I know where you live.
DR. OATMAN: You know where I live?
MARTIN: We're both professionals, Oatman.
DR. OATMAN: I think what you fear Martin is domesticity. It's the greatest fear that men have who belong to Western Culture. It's centuries old. Like King Phillip, in the 11th or 12th century who decided one day that he was so bored with his dreary life at home with his wife he thought, "Well, wouldn't it be great if we hit the road and fought. oh. the Saracens." So he put the word out and was amazed when a million men signed up and all of them wanted to go and fight in distant lands and do terrible things to people rather than stay at home with their families.
MARTIN: So you're saying that Ulysses everything he said to his queen when he came backeverything was a lie? He just wanted to fuck around?
DR. OATMAN: DR. OATMAN And how have you been feeling about your. work lately?
MARTIN: DR. OATMAN And how have you been feeling about your. work lately?
DR. OATMAN: And how have you been feeling about your. work lately?
MARTIN: Uneasy. Dispassionate. Bored. It's just getting hard to go to work in a good mood. I'm starting to think I've been in the business too long. Last week I did a guy younger than INT. CHURCH - SERIES OF QUICK SHOTS: From the back of the darkened empty church, we see him mount the altar. A priest in fact.
MARTIN: From the back of the darkened empty church, we see him mount the altar. A priest in fact.
MARTIN'S HANDS: open the gilded doors to reveal the chalice. He removes it, squirts a clear liquid into the cup, and swishes it out. He returns the chalice to the cabinet.
MARTIN: Sits in the back pew of the church, now crowded for Mann. He watches the PRIEST lift the chalice into the air, murmur a prayer, and drink from it. The Priest collapses behind the
MARTIN: If I show up at your door, chances are you did something to bring me there. I don't care about that stuff, What stuff?
DR. OATMAN: What stuff?
MARTIN: ( dismissive ) Oatman's glad the session's just about over.
DR. OATMAN: Go to your reunion, Martin. See those people and discover what they mean to you. Try not to kill anybody for a few days, see how you feel.
MARTIN: If I get antsy I'll kill a few small Now we're making progress.
OATMAN: Now we're making progress.
CAT: Just a minute.
MARTIN: Just a minute.
MARTIN: turns the page.
CAT: INT. KITCHEN - SAME Martin pulls himself away from the album and the cat follows him, moaning hungrily
MARTIN: Food soon. Martin opens a restaurant-style refrigerator. It holds various bottles of vitamins, spirulina, wheatgrass, digestible hydrogen peroxide, fluoride treatment, oxygenated mouth rinse, and thirty cans of CATFOOD.
MARTIN: Tuna or liver?
CAT: Tuna it is. He opens a can for the cat and a bottle for himself. While the cat eats, he returns to the cardboard box. Finds a YEARBOOK. Flips it open..
MARTIN: Tuna it is. He opens a can for the cat and a bottle for himself. While the cat eats, he returns to the cardboard box. Finds a YEARBOOK. Flips it open..
LARDNER: You always say that. You always say that. I'm telling you, you never met the man.
MCCULLERS: Seventeen months ago I was posting a walk in Lisbon, and he was there. He never saw me. But I saw him, though.
LARDNER: In Portugal, yes. In the background, Martin passes by them as he walks down the hall. Without directly regarding him, the two stand, drop some cash on the bar, and begin to leave.
MCCULLERS: In Portugal, yes. In the background, Martin passes by them as he walks down the hall. Without directly regarding him, the two stand, drop some cash on the bar, and begin to leave.
LARDNER: Here's the news: He hasn't been in Portugal since '90. I know that from the file. Why don't you read the file, man?
MCCULLERS: In fact, I think I talked with him, in Bonn. Lardner can neither confirm nor deny this.
LARDNER: You always say that. You always have to know everybody. Why don't I just take the weekend off and let you kill him. Since you two are so close. They exit.
MARTIN'S CAR: blows past CAMERA and on down the road. After a beat, a mid- eighties Ford Country Squire station wagon follows, occupied by two figures.
MARTIN: flips through the dial, pausing on Rush Limbaugh who waxes .and then turns the dial again and cuts in on "Armageddon Time," slow reggae vibe by The Clash.
MARTIN: Mein hero. .and then turns the dial again and cuts in on "Armageddon Time," slow reggae vibe by The Clash.
FEMALE DEEJAY: and I'm ready for some good tunes and angry talk. Or angry tunes and good talk
MARTIN: looking somewhere far away, beyond what is before him in the
MARTIN: still rapt, makes a sharp turn into a shopping district.
HER MOUTH: FEMALE DEEJAY The Cocteau Twins, though also a band of the nineties, will be aired due to the fact that they created their own language to sing by
FEMALE DEEJAY: The Cocteau Twins, though also a band of the nineties, will be aired due to the fact that they created their own language to sing by
MARTIN: slows on a quaint street of cute shops. He creeps up to a storefront on hid right and stops, staring through the passenger window..
DEBI NEWBERRY: the female deejay. She sits slumped in a well-worn executive chair, her back to the studio console and the picture window behind it that opens to the street..
DEBI: Now that's freedom she swivels in the chair to face the street..
DEBI: Her brow furrowed as she peers at the car, something summoned by the dark figure. Her words falter almost imperceptibly.
DEBI: The best I can do is a rhyme: Where are all the good men dead? In the heart or in the head? Back later..
MARTIN: Shaken from his trance by her stare, pulls back into the street and disappears..
WIDE SHOT: of Martin as he walks with purpose. He halts in the middle of the lot. He puts his hands on his hips, stares, then moves in. We stay wide as he enters the store and addresses the clerk inside.
MARTIN: What are you doing here? CARL, the store clerk tries to get a grip on this question.
CARL: A double shift. What's it look like? Can I help you with something? Martin's head pans the room, processing.
MARTIN: I don't think so.
MARTIN: ( into phone ) Dr. Oatman. Dr. Oatman. Please pick up if you're there. It's Martin Blank. It's gone. My house. It's not here. My house is gone and now there's a 7-11 here. And that's unfortunate. You can never go home again, Dr. Oatman. Martin hangs up. He watches one-stop shoppers come and go.
MARTIN: ( to himself ) But I guess you can shop there.
NURSE: Mary, your son's here. The nurse gently eases Mary up. Martin hugs Mary stiffly and pats her shoulders. Mary takes hold of Martin's arm. They start out of the room.
MARY: I bought a new rug.
MARTIN: That's wonderful, Mom.
MARY: What's a revival tent?
MARTIN: It's a place where religious people
MARY: ( knowingly ) Marlin Perkins and Jim!
MARTIN: His assistant. He acted like Marlin's son, only he wasn't. At least they never said he was. I bet they were lovers, faggots. Yes, gay lovers. Wild Kingdom my ass! Mary coughs horribly.
MARY: His assistant. He acted like Marlin's son, only he wasn't. At least they never said he was. I bet they were lovers, faggots. Yes, gay lovers. Wild Kingdom my ass! Mary coughs horribly.
MARTIN: It's good to see you. I'm sure you're curious about what I've been doing.
MARY: I spoke to your father the other I imagine that'd be rather difficult.
MARTIN: I imagine that'd be rather difficult.
MARY: Nature made him then broke the mold. Martin decides to change the subject.
MARTIN: They told me you're taking lithium, Yes, they give me headaches. I have a headache.
MARY: Yes, they give me headaches. I have a headache.
MARTIN: You have a headache?
MARY: I have a headache. You have a No, I don't have one.
MARTIN: No, I don't have one.
MARY: You don't have a headache. I have a Mary leans in close, smiling.
MARY: We had a good laugh, didn't we?
MARTIN: Yeah. I guess we did.
MARY: Why don't you return this car and borrow mine? Have Debi follow you to the rent-a-car so you can get a ride I think I'll go see Debi today.
MARTIN: I think I'll go see Debi today.
MARY: Of course you will.
MARTIN: I can't think of anything to say to her that seems appropriate given I left and never said goodbye to her.
MARY: Take care of her. She's a keeper.
MARTIN: And a leader. Didn't she meet Castro on foreign exchange?
MARY: And a leader. Didn't she meet Castro on foreign exchange?
MARTIN: I have always thought about her and missed her. A nurse approaches with a wheelchair.
MARY: Separate the wheat from the chaff and you've got the candle cat. Together, Martin and the nurse help Mary into it. Mary gazes at Martin, taking him in.
MARY: Remember no matter how impossible your problems feel. I've known people without a chance in the world. And all of a sudden, they have lives. Time allows miracles. Let yourself breathe, son. Martin bends down and kisses her on the cheek. The nurse spins the chair around and heads toward the building. He is somewhat fatigued from the experience, but he tries once more to connect.
MARTIN: The nurse stops and turns Mary around to face him. Mary looks up at Martin and brightens. She starts to sing out like Ethel Merman, arms out Broadway style.
MARY: "What's up doc/ what's cookin'?/ What's up doc?/ Are ya lookin'?/ Hey! Look out! You're gonna hurt someone,/ with that old shotgun,/ Hey. what's. up. Doooooc.!/ We really mean it!" Mary stops short, and squints at Martin.
MARY: Hey, you're a handsome devil. What's your name?
MARTIN: Hey Pop. You got off easy. The house is a 7-11. Mom's a psycho- pharmacological punching bag and I murder for cash. If you were here I think you'd be proud. He drives off.
MARTIN: pries out a wall vent, slides in the case and replaces the vent.
MCCULLERS: ".Against the wind. just a young man running. Against the wind. let the cowboy's ride!. Blame on it the thuuunder! Night moves." McCullers catches of Martin's Town Car coming down the street. He nudges Lardner, and points.
DEBI: ( on air, groping ) WRFN playing all vinyl, all the time. Oldies from the eighties. That was ah. the Specials. Doing. one of their songs. Debi turns to turntable B and finds it empty. She turns back to turntable A and lets the record roll on.
DEBI: .and here's another. Debi swivels around to face Martin.
MARTIN: "Oldies from the eighties?" After a long pause..
DEBI: I just play my own collection.
MARTIN: It's nice to see you again. Debi says nothing, just stares at him, in shock.
MARTIN: How long has it been?
DEBI: Since you stood me up on prom night and vanished without saying a word?
MARTIN: Ten years, I think. What I miss? Debi slowly grooves into irony, her best defense.
DEBI: Well, let me see. they tore down the George Orwell monument and put up a bust of George Michael. Main Street's a four-laner, no left turns four to seven. I was married and divorced. And Grosse Pointe is now officially the new sister city to Lower Hutt, New Zealand. We have fiber-optic town meetings every two Here is now there. There is here. Their eyes lock on each other.
MARTIN: Here is now there. There is here. Their eyes lock on each other.
DEBI: Those are the headlines. The request line buzzes.
DEBI: Hold that thought. WRFN FM, Grosse Pointe. All vinyl, all the. No Pearl Jam. Call back in ten years. Beat. Debi makes the move.
DEBI: Tell me about yourself.
MARTIN: I'm in California most of the time. Traveling a lot on business. That's about it, really.
DEBI: That's it?
MARTIN: Not much else.
DEBI: What's your business?
MARTIN: I'm a professional killer.
DEBI: Professional killer. Do you get dental with that? Well, I'm in town for a few days, They run out of words, the moment too big for small talk. Martin gets the fear, breaks it off.
MARTIN: Well, I'm in town for a few days, They run out of words, the moment too big for small talk. Martin gets the fear, breaks it off.
MARTIN: Well, I gotta go. But I'll come back.
DEBI: Martin leaves Debi sitting alone, in disbelief.
DEBI: ( into mike ) A man comes to you. He is from the past bringing you pain long since put behind you. He says peculiar things and leaves abruptly. It all comes flooding back.
DEBI: It felt like an apparition, or some cheap, gruesome Rod Serling time warp I'd been thrust back into without warning. There's a strangeness in the air and I don't mind telling you, I'm a little spooked. He was a man from my past. A man I loved. A man who disappeared.
DEBI: A man who's walking back into the Martin comes into the booth. The temperature rises as they square off.
LARDNER: I don't think so.
MCCULLERS: I don't think so.
LARDNER: Well, remember when Frysal's men paid off the Deejay in Cairo to announce a bogus press conference in Yes. And the Munich Olympics in '72. A local radio station started broadcasting news of the massacre two minutes before it happened. McCullers is not to be outdone.
MCCULLERS: Yes. And the Munich Olympics in '72. A local radio station started broadcasting news of the massacre two minutes before it happened. McCullers is not to be outdone.
LARDNER: Yes. And the Munich Olympics in '72. A local radio station started broadcasting news of the massacre two minutes before it happened. McCullers is not to be outdone.
MCCULLERS: That's strictly Bàader-Meinhof stuff.
LARDNER: It was the PLO.
MCCULLERS: INT. DEEJAY BOOTH Martin and Debi locked in a passionate embrace. They break Martin obeys. Debi clandestinely flips the "ON-AIR" switch as she drops into her chair. The "ON-AIR" light bar goes on above and behind Martin. Unbeknownst to him their conversation is put out over the airwaves.
DEBI: Martin obeys. Debi clandestinely flips the "ON-AIR" switch as she drops into her chair. The "ON-AIR" light bar goes on above and behind Martin. Unbeknownst to him their conversation is put out over the airwaves.
DEBI: All right mystery man. I want some answers. Let's recap. Spring of '84. Two young lovers with frightening natural chemistry. The girl sits in a seven-hundred dollar prom dress at her father's house waiting for the most romantic night of her young life. The boy never shows up, until now. So, what's the question?
MARTIN: Where have I been?
DEBI: More like what happened? What happened, Mr. Blank?
MARTIN: I don't know exactly. I could venture a guess but it would sound like a rationalization. I thought you know. maybe seeing you, some friends, my house. of course now a
DEBI: Torn down in the name of convenience
MARTIN: and I guess, sure, seeing you would be part of that whole equation. I suppose the most important thing, really. I don't know. Anyway, this whole thing's my therapist's idea. It's my shrink, really.
DEBI: Ohhh. You're in therapy too, Marty?
MARTIN: You see someone?
DEBI: Uh, no. So you're back now, a decade later, and you want to sort things out with me. The question now is, do I allow you. access. to my being? Martin says nothing.
DEBI: All right then. Would you like to share any more deeply personal thoughts with our listening audience before we go to our phone poll and see how the folks in radioland come down on this one? A beat as Martin realizes he's been had. He seems about to Should a broken-hearted girl give a guy a second chance at love.. Debi jabs a phone line on the console.
DEBI: Should a broken-hearted girl give a guy a second chance at love.. Debi jabs a phone line on the console.
DEBI: ( HARD ) You're on the air. Martin deflates.
DEBI: Thank you caller. Stabs another line.
DEBI: You're on the air.
DEBI: DUMB GUY VOICE No, the guy. Martin looks up, humiliated.
MARTIN: DUMB GUY VOICE Uh. when you guys use to go out. Did you guys ever. heh heh heh heh. ever fuckin', ever totally fuckin' heh heh heh-
DEBI: Next caller.
DEBI: Thank you.
DEBI: Grosse Pointe Michigan, I hear you loud and clear: "If you love something set it free. If it comes back to you it's, well. She turns to him and shrugs apologetically.
DEBI: Martin has his answer.
MARTIN: Dammit. Never trust my instincts. He scans the main strip.
THE MAN: pulls out a glasses case, and takes off his shades He is
PAUL: ( grinning ear-to-ear ) Hell, I would've voted for you, but there's all this apple sauce stuck in my phone. I don't wanna talk about it. How the hell are you?! ( extends his hand ) Here's five good ones! No trace of recognition on Martin's face.
PAUL: Marty! It's me. Paul.
MARTIN: ( realizing ) ( re: hand ) You're leaving me hanging here. They shake. Martin looks him up and down, astonished at the respectable veneer of his old burn-out friend.
PAUL: ( re: hand ) You're leaving me hanging here. They shake. Martin looks him up and down, astonished at the respectable veneer of his old burn-out friend.
PAUL: Hey. Give me a break.
PAUL: This won't take but a minute. I just gotta hold their hands for a final walk-through. I'll take them in, get 'em out, then you and I can grab a little quality time. Martin looks out the window, breathing in the past.
PAUL: Goddamn, It's good to see you. I was afraid you joined a cult or something. I half-expected you to come back to town in a fennel wreath and paper Paul offers Martin the joint. He declines.
MARTIN: There was no money in it. Martin regards Paul archly.
MARTIN: ( grinning ) So what happened to you?
PAUL: Same thing that happened to you I stopped poutin' there on the sidelines. Got in. Got on the team. I joined the working week, you slick fucking asshole, so why don't you valet park your high horse and take it easy on your old buddy, Paul.
MARTIN: Fair enough. God it's great to see you.
PAUL: God it's great to see you.
MARTIN: You too.
MARTIN: So when are you authorized to use deadly force?
SOUTHTEC GUARD: Well, a 'course, taxes provide your basic service police and whatnot. But our customers need a little more than just that, you understand? This badge doesn't mean that I am a peace The woman turns at Martin and smiles. Martin smiles back.
MARTIN: So it's not a meaningful symbol, or anything. That badge is just the badge of your company. If I look suspicious on your customers' property well, under those heightened circumstances you have the authority to, ah. To shoot me.
SOUTHTEC GUARD: To shoot you. Correct.
MARTIN: How did you get this job?
SOUTHTEC GUARD: Well, they were hiring, and it was only a two week course.
MARTIN: ( pleasantly ) Paul walks the happy couple down the steps.
PAUL: ( to couple ) .What more can I say.
HUSBAND: ( smiling ) We'll talk soon.
PAUL: ( much hand gesturing ) You'll be raising your new family in a work of art. A work of art in a work of art. Paul looks at Martin and the Guard, inviting them into the I'm sure you'll be very happy. All look to Martin..
SOUTHTEC GUARD: I'm sure you'll be very happy. All look to Martin..
MARTIN: ( heartfelt ) When my time comes, if it ever does, I want a beautiful, normal place like this. and a wife like you. All are confused. Martin thumbs to the guard.
MARTIN: .and you'll be safe here. Paul looks at his shoes and rolls his shoulders.
PAUL: Now. I don't make a habit of pimping my friends, but there is one prime little piece of land that you must MARTIN'S P.O.V. A sprawling gingerbread mansion rises into view. A long and winding driveway cuts through thickly wooded property to the Debi's house.
MARTIN: No. You drove us here.
PAUL: Yeah, but it's still kind of eerie, isn't it?
MARTIN: Martin's not listening. His eyes track the house out the MARTIN'S P.O.V. of the mansion. They roll slowly by Debi's house. They drive in silence for a beat. Paul suddenly swerves to the shoulder, jams the brake, and turns on Martin.
PAUL: Ten years. What happened!?
MARTIN: I freaked out, joined the Army, worked for the government, and went into business for myself. I'm a professional killer.
PAUL: Thank you. Paul, satisfied, gets back on the road.
PAUL: Professional killer, huh? Does that come with a good HMO?
MARTIN: ( looking ahead ) He sells BMW's?
PAUL: He sold me this bad boy.
MARTIN: How could you put your hard-earned dollars into the hands of the class He gave me a great deal.
PAUL: He gave me a great deal.
MARTIN: Mein Dealer. Paul slows outside the lot. BOB DESTEPHANO a big, angry- looking man in an expensive suit stands in the lot, puffing up amidst his stable of expensive cars.
PAUL: Hey! Bob! The car's running great.
BOB: ( dismissive ) Glad to hear it. Bob turns his back on them and begins to walk away.
MARTIN: ( shouts ) ( turning ) It's me. Martin Blank.
BOB: ( turning ) It's me. Martin Blank.
MARTIN: It's me. Martin Blank.
BOB: Really.? So what?
MARTIN: Okay. See you later.
PAUL: See you at the left-a-boy-came-back- a-man-made-good party. Martin nods him off. Paul pulls away.
MARTIN: stands across the street from the radio station, looking at Debi in the window. Martin draws a thin rifle scope from his back pocket, and lifts it to his eye.
MARTIN: dejected. He puts the scope away and gets in his car.
CARL: Can I help you?
MARTIN: What's done is done. Martin moves up one aisle to the gum rack. He picks out a pack of Beaman's and unwraps a stick as he heads to the counter. On the way, he makes a black Town Car pulling into a spot next to his own. He immediately changes course, and bee-lines for a rear aisle where he ducks down.
FELIX: Comes through the door, drawing a Mac-10 for each hand.
MARTIN: grabs the gum out of his mouth and sticks it onto the bottom of the Glock .9mm he has produced from somewhere in his suit.
CARL: grabs the cash drawer, sets it on the counter, and puts his hands up.
THE SKATEBOARDER: Plays on.
MARTIN: Bolts up the cooler aisle. Bursts of FIRE follow him, taking out each freezer door behind him.
MARTIN: pinned behind the Slurpee machine, pauses to reload his now two Glock nines. Martin steals a glance to get a bead on Felix and is met with a salvo that rocks the Slurpee machine, spattering him with several flavors. and that's all he can take. Martin comes up BLASTING with both guns, but all that's left of Felix is swinging doors and squealing tires. Martin moves to the cashier island, low to the ground.
THE SKATEBOARDER: Twitches and jerks, still absorbed in his game and oblivious to the surrounding carnage.
CASHIER ISLAND: Martin crawls through the waist-level swinging door and moves to Carl.
CARL: is really dead. Martin rolls him over to check it out and A BOMB under the corpse.
A BOMB: under the corpse.
MARTIN: Flips the corpse back on top of the device and leaps the counter toward the doors. He grabs the shoulder or the Skateboarder, who shrugs him off, annoyed
SKATEBOARDER: What the fuck, man?! The video game screen explodes. Shot full of Martin's bullets. The Skateboarder reacts backward and Martin jerks him out of the double doors.
MARTIN: Are you going to the reunion?
DEBI: No. I'm not going. Is that why you're That's part of it.
MARTIN: That's part of it.
DEBI: Well, you'll have a ball. You seem to have everything everybody wants when they go back. The car, the suit, the watch. The look. That just leaves the little things, like happiness, character, point of view.
MARTIN: It's always the little things.
DEBI: I'm wondering how you've been. How you are. I'd like to catch up with you. If it's possible. Beat as Debi considers. She spins her seat to face him.
MARTIN: I'm wondering how you've been. How you are. I'd like to catch up with you. If it's possible. Beat as Debi considers. She spins her seat to face him.
DEBI: Okay. Let's catch up. You go first.
MARTIN: Well, there's not much to tell.
DEBI: I'm sure you've done worthwhile things in the last ten years. You've had Bad experiences.
MARTIN: Bad experiences.
DEBI: You met people.
MARTIN: Bad people.
DEBI: Watched television?
MARTIN: Bad television.
DEBI: ( amused ) Jesus. Marty. You're pathetic. It sounds like you need a Shockabuku.
MARTIN: What's that?
DEBI: It's a swift spiritual kick to the head that alters your reality forever.
MARTIN: That'd be good. What do you want? The question is open.
DEBI: What do you want? The question is open.
MARTIN: I figured I could pick you up tomorrow around seven o'clock.
DEBI: Let me get this straight, are you asking me out?
MARTIN: Seven it is.
DEBI: Seven it is.
MARTIN: Seven it is.
DEBI: I'll think about it.
MONTY: Baby, it's eight o'clock. Marcella gets up.
MARCELLA: Thanks, Monty. She tousles Monty's hair on the way to the truck.
MARCELLA: Hey there, how'd it go?
MARTIN: It isn't done. Marcella pauses, taking this in.
MARCELLA: This is not good.
MARTIN: I'll do it tomorrow. Marcella considers this.
MARCELLA: What's it look like?
MARTIN: It's fine.
MARCELLA: You haven't looked at the dossier.
MARTIN: ( a little defensive ) I've looked at it. Martin eyes the vent.
MARCELLA: You have.
MARTIN: Yes. It's the same as usual. Nothing remarkable about it at all.
MARCELLA: I have to call the client and give them a reason why you're late.
MARTIN: Tell them my house exploded. Beat. Marcella doesn't know what to make of this.
MARCELLA: I'll call them and tell them you're taking your time. Being a Okay, call them. Fine. Oh And if you could find out why they double- booked the job, and who is trying to kill me, and call me back that's be great.
MARTIN: Okay, call them. Fine. Oh And if you could find out why they double- booked the job, and who is trying to kill me, and call me back that's be great.
MARCELLA: Will do. Martin hangs up. He moves up to the air vent, deciding to get down to business. He pries it open, and withdraws his briefcase, putting it down on the bed and propping it open. He looks at the unopened dossier for a moment, flips it over in his hands, and tosses it on the bed.
BRIEFCASE: We catch a glimpse of Martin's weapons. Martin picks up the envelope and is about to tear the seal when
DEBI: ( filtered ) Are you there?
MARTIN: Pick me up at my father's house at around seven. And don't be late this This night, this reunion will be an important step in our relationship.
DEBI: Pick me up at my father's house at around seven. And don't be late this This night, this reunion will be an important step in our relationship.
DEBI: This night, this reunion will be an important step in our relationship.
MARTIN: This night, this reunion will be an important step in our relationship.
DEBI: You're fucking psycho.
MARTIN: Don't rush to judgement until all the facts are in. She hangs up. Martin smiles and replaces the receiver. He turns to the apparatus laid out on the bed.
MCCULLERS: I wish he'd do his job already so we could do our job.
LARDNER: We can't do our job unless he does his job.
MCCULLERS: Why don't we just do his job then, so we can do our job, and get the fuck out of here.
LARDNER: Do his job? I'm not a cold-blooded Wait a minute
MCCULLERS: Wait a minute
LARDNER: -Look. You want to kill a Good Guy, but not be a Bad Guy, you wait until a Bad Guy kills the Good Guy, and then you come in and kill the Bad Guy, and then you're the Good Guy.
MCCULLERS: So if we do his job, we're the bad guys. If we do our job, we're the good guys.
LARDNER: They both laugh, as if at some great joke. Their laughter is caught short by the sight of
GROCER: moving into the diner.
GROCER: slides into the booth, across from Martin.
GROCER: Easy, tiger. A waitress approaches.
WAITRESS: Hi. Welcome to B.I. McCafferty's. My name is Melanie and I'll be your server this morning. Let me tell you about some of our specials. Today we have the "Alfalfa on My Mind," our feature omelette. And there's our "Gatsby's West Egg Omelette." And if you're in the mood for something different there's the "I left my heart in San Franchezie." Martin and Grocer's eyes remain locked.
GROCER: I want two eggs poached, hash brown well-done. English muffin for the bread. And a coffee.
MARTIN: Whole-grain pancakes. And an egg- white omelette.
WAITRESS: What would you like in the omelette?
MARTIN: Nothing in the omelette. Nothing at The waitress nods pertly and leaves.
GROCER: ( re: the omelette ) Come on, live a little. I'm sorry about the incident yesterday.
MARTIN: No harm no foul.
GROCER: A little misunderstanding among my I told them to kill you and they Hard to get good help these days.
GROCER: I told them to kill you and they Hard to get good help these days.
MARTIN: Hard to get good help these days.
GROCER: But since we're both here, I think it's time to take a fresh look at our relationship.
MARTIN: I didn't get into this business to have "associates." And I don't want to join your Goddamned union. "Loner " "Loner gunman." Get it? "On my own." That's the whole point. Why don't you become a cop, or something. You can drink coffee in the morning. with friends! Grocer looks a little hurt.
MARTIN: ( easing up ) Look, this is a one-on-one business. Every time you get to know people, bad things happen. If it'll make you feel any better, this is my last job. So what do you say we put our guns away and forget the whole damn Grocer loses it.
GROCER: Fuck you! No scabs! From now on, everything's regulated! Long beat as Grocer gets a hold of himself.
MARTIN: No deal.
GROCER: Fine. But we're not going to let you do your job. Because we're gonna do it. And then, after we do your job, we're gonna do another little job.
MARTIN: ( Wry ) Is that right?
GROCER: Yeah after I shoot you through the fucking forehead I'm gonna fuck you in the bullethole.
MARTIN: Nice talk, Sugarmouth.
MARTIN: ( trying on smile ) Yes, I'm a pet psychiatrist. I sell couch insurance. I test-market positive thinking. I lead a weekend men's group, actually. We specialize in ritual killings. I'm hungry, are you hungry, I'm hungry, oooh, ooh. ( sarcastic ) Hi, I'm Martin Blank, remember me? I'm not married, I have no kids and I'd blow your brains out if someone paid me enough. So how've you been? Where do you stand on The Issues? Are you Left? Right? Up, down, proud, shamed, blahblahblahblah
DEBI: Flowers. That's funny.
MARTIN: As long as I get the laugh.
DEBI: ( taking them ) Here. Let me put these in some rubbing She backs into the house, and he follows.
MARTIN: You look beautiful.
DEBI: Okay. Hold on.
MARTIN: I'll just help myself to a cocktail.
DEBI: moves up the stairs and disappears.
MARTIN: looks at the legs, rolls his shoulders, and heads into the INT. DEN - CONTINUOUS Mr. Newberry sits in the recliner reading a Tom Clancy novel. He is a corporate Aspen-dude-ranch sort with a good head of hair. He sighs, closes the book on his knee and looks up to
MARTIN: Good evening, Mr. Newberry.
MR. NEWBERRY: Good evening, Mr. Blank.
MARTIN: How are you? How's business?
MR. NEWBERRY: Martin, I don't know where you've been since you abandoned my daughter ten years ago, and I don't care. It was good that you left, and I'm glad you did. So what do you want to talk about? You've grown up a bit. Maybe I had you figured wrong.
MARTIN: How's that?
MR. NEWBERRY: I visualized you, in a haze, as one of the slackster, flannel-wearing, coffeehouse-misanthropes I've been seeing in Newsweek.
MARTIN: I took the other road. I'm more of a self-reflective young lion who does business with lead-pipe cruelty and goes home to drink light beer in milky-eyes isolation. I love sports and sex and have no real relationships with anyone. And you?
MR. NEWBERRY: Oh, you know me, Martin. I'm the same old sell-out baby-boomer, exploiting the oppressed I got shot for at Kent State. But why don't we have a drink and forget the whole Newberry lays down his book, and moves behind the wet bar.
MARTIN: Why not?
MR. NEWBERRY: So what are you doing with your life now, son?
MARTIN: I'm a professional killer.
MR. NEWBERRY: That's good. Debi's footsteps are heard coming down the stairs.
MARTIN: Do you want to get a drink first?
DEBI: I think they'll probably have booze Martin's right hand shakes off of the wheel a bit. He grips it tighter. Suddenly, Martin turns the wheel and pulls into a gas station parking lot, halting next to a pay phone.
MARTIN: Martin's right hand shakes off of the wheel a bit. He grips it tighter. Suddenly, Martin turns the wheel and pulls into a gas station parking lot, halting next to a pay phone.
MARTIN: I'll just be a second. Debi nods, a little confused but going with it.
DEBI: EXT. PAYPHONE - MINUTES LATER Martin stands at the kiosk next to the Town Car, mid- INT. OATMAN'S OFFICE - INTERCUT Oatman treats his patient.
MARTIN: ( defensive ) .Well, I didn't kill anyone, but someone tried to kill me and the guy in the middle got killed. So if I see that guy again I'm definitely going to kill him, but I won't kill anyone else. Oh, except for the guy I was sent here to kill. I don't INT. OATMAN'S OFFICE - INTERCUT Oatman treats his patient.
DR. OATMAN: What else? Say more.
MARTIN: Saw my mom. I'm with Debi, and I'm on my way to the reunion. In the background, Lardner and McCullers drive past the Okay. Repeat this after me.
DR. OATMAN: Okay. Repeat this after me.
MARTIN: Out Loud? Martin looks to Debi. She looks up and smiles. We hear Dr. Oatman's command, Martin mumbles them back.
MARTIN: .I am at home with the me. I am rooted in me, who is on this Take a deep breath and realize, that this is me breathing.
DR. OATMAN: Take a deep breath and realize, that this is me breathing.
MARTIN: This is me breating. Martin takes in a few breaths.
MARITN: Alright, look. I gotta go.
DR. OATMAN: And don't kill anyone.
MARTIN: Right. Don't kill anyone.
NIGHTSTAND: The reunion invite.
FELIX: picks it up and scans it.
LARDNER: He's falling for her. Look at him.
MCCULLERS: He using her.
LARDNER: You're wrong. Look at his face.
MCCULLERS: One cannot love and kill.
LARDNER: ( defensive ) I love. I kill.
MARTIN: ( to himself ) Shoulda brought my gun.
DEBI: He pulls himself off the car and heads toward
ARLENE: Welcome back! I'm Arlene Oslott- I'm Martin Blank.
MARTIN: I'm Martin Blank.
DEBI: Debi Newberry. Debi heads off into the gym, smiling back as she strands Martin. Arlene rises from a card table. They have little to say. Martin wasn't part of her crowd.
ARLENE: Marty, you haven't changed a bit!
MARTIN: Don't say that. Arlene gives him a NAMETAG. As a special torture, the tags have YEARBOOK PHOTOS. Martin looks at the name tag We had pictures put on, that way everybody knows who everybody was!
ARLENE: We had pictures put on, that way everybody knows who everybody was!
MARTIN: So, what are you doing now?
ARLENE: So, what are you doing now?
MARTIN: Whatever I can get away with. She smiles at his joke and is immediately distracted by the next arrival. Martin moves off.
ARLENE: ( to the next person ) Isn't it cute. It's so everybody knows who everybody was! He circles the crowded gym. Looking for familiar faces. He stops at the open bar.
BATENDER: What can I make you?
MARTIN: The bartender gets him a beer. Martin recognizes a guy at the bar. He is well-appointed and shiny. He is KEN ALDRIDGE.
MARTIN: Hey, Ken. How have you been?
KEN: ( glancing at Martin's name tag ) Hello Martin. How have you been?
MARTIN: Not bad. You? Bob Destephano arrives next to them and orders a drink. Eye contact is made.
KEN: Hello, Bob.
MARTIN: Hey, Bob. Bob turns slightly toward them. They continue in their I'm an attorney. I'm with Moss, Brice & Fromeyer.
KEN: I'm an attorney. I'm with Moss, Brice & Fromeyer.
MARTIN: That sounds pretty interesting. Bob wants to join the conversation but doesn't know how.
KEN: Sometimes. I'm in divorce, mainly. Some property. Some personal injury.
MARTIN: Those all seem kind of related. Bob takes another drink and mopes off, Martin watches him Tragedy makes you thirsty. Ken chuckles. The bartender arrives with the bottle. Martin grabs it and begins to move off.
MARTIN: Tragedy makes you thirsty. Ken chuckles. The bartender arrives with the bottle. Martin grabs it and begins to move off.
MARTIN: Well. I have to take this over to Here. Take my card. Wait a minute. here's a special one. For top-shelf Ken hands Martin a Monte Blanc pen with Ken's title and business address printed on the shaft. Martin reads it and puts it in his kerchief pocket.
KEN: Here. Take my card. Wait a minute. here's a special one. For top-shelf Ken hands Martin a Monte Blanc pen with Ken's title and business address printed on the shaft. Martin reads it and puts it in his kerchief pocket.
MARTIN: Ken goes back to listening to the Guys at the bar.
MARTIN: makes his way through the upbeat crowd of well-wishers. TERRY emerges like an inkspot on a clean white whirt, and intercepts Martin. His angst is barely under control as he sidles up to Martin shrugs.
TERRY: I don't know, Blank, all these fucking people, driving me crazy. Look at them over there, memorializing old times, acting all like it was something "life-changing." And the people in the National Honor Society? The name tags? Martin shrugs.
TERRY: They have special blue starts on them like it fucking matters now that they were in the honor club ten years ago. I'm getting fucking nauseous from all this sentimental bullshit. It's making me sick. Terry stops suddenly as if he's finished. Martin reads this man's nametag.
MARTIN: Why are you here. Terry? Terry turns on a dime.
TERRY: I wanted to see a couple people. But I don't want to talk about the old days. What did we have together, Martin? Typing?
MARTIN: ( remembering ) Yeah, I couldn't stand that fucking class. But I appreciate you helping me out, man.
TERRY: Yeah, I couldn't stand that fucking class. But I appreciate you helping me out, man.
MARTIN: Don't mention it.
TERRY: Yeah, thanks. Well I'm going to try and get out of here, man. I'll see you later. Terry slinks off.
DAN: Bob. Bob Destephano.
BOB: I'm Dan. Dan Koretzky.
DAN: I'm Dan. Dan Koretzky.
BOB: Computer guy.
DAN: Yeah. Hey, I saw you at your dad's dealership the other day.
BOB: I sell BMW's. What do you do?
DAN: Not much, actually. My software company just went public so I'm just. hanging out, really. There's a sudden lull in the conversation. Bob tries his drunken hand at relating.
BOB: Remember high school?
DAN: Sure. Listen. Why don't you join us up in the grandstands? Dan points up to a group of happy, laughing people. Bob walks off shaking his head and smiling bitterly.
MIKE: .You gotta hold the fans responsible, though, Dennis, because they're the ones putting up with the mediocre product.
DENNIS: I guess, though, you know, if you look at it Mike, that park is a beautiful park, I've gone to that park many times - I've had the greatest time of my life at that ballpark and let's face it, I tell you this, Mike, by the sixth inning, if you're having the fun you should be having at Tigers Stadium, you don't even know what the hell's going on anyway. They both crack up at this.
DARIUS: Have you two been together since high school?
DEBI: Yes. Actually we just bought that little Frank Lloyd Wright on Pine Avenue. Debi's a social worker and I mow down insurance claims at Aetna
MARTIN: Yes. Actually we just bought that little Frank Lloyd Wright on Pine Avenue. Debi's a social worker and I mow down insurance claims at Aetna
DEBI: We haven't seen each other since high school.
DARIUS: I figured. You two look too happy together. I shouldn't say that though, I'm married. So, Martin what are you up to these days? What do you do for a living? Debi perks up; this should be interesting.
MARTIN: I'm in pro-active international relations. It's a very specialized company. We execute economic investment opportunities. Sort of economic clean-up. with an emphasis on personnel. It's boring, you know, it's boring. I don't like to talk about it because I don't think what a man does necessarily reflects who he is. Martin begins to draw strange looks from all over the table. Martin may be in trouble.
MARTIN: .I've always tried to refrain from a black-and-white moral lexiconyou know, good, bad, right, wrongI've been more interested in the gray Silence. Martin pushes on.
MARTIN: But that's no way to live. I guess you've got to just take the leap of faith. Believe in something. Fuck Sounds complicated, Martin. Are you I just have to close this one last account. I'd like to just stop now, today, but I can't. It's a step in the right direction.
DARIUS: Sounds complicated, Martin. Are you I just have to close this one last account. I'd like to just stop now, today, but I can't. It's a step in the right direction.
MARTIN: I just have to close this one last account. I'd like to just stop now, today, but I can't. It's a step in the right direction.
DEBI: I don't know, Martin. It sounds like you're feeling compromised. Live the way you want. The only thing that's inexcusable, to me, is cynicism. That's the biggest cop-out there is. Nods of assent come from around the table. A brief silence, and then.
AMY: But wait. I still don't understand what you do.
MARTIN: I work at Kentucky Fried Chicken. Debi suppresses a laugh.
AMY: You do not.
MARTIN: Yes I do.
AMY: You don't.
MARTIN: In the corporate offices.
AMY: Oh. really?
MARTIN: What do you do?
AMY: What do you do?
MARTIN: I sell biscuits to the Southland.
AMY: You do not.
MARTIN: It's what I do.
AMY: You're so funny.
MARTIN: I sell biscuits and gravy all over the Southland
AMY: Stop it
MARTIN: You know those horsey biscuit gravy packets? I move all of those
AMY: Sometimes we sell them to McDonald's and just change them to special barbecue sauce. Across the table from Martin and Debi, Dennis turns to Darius.
MARTIN: Sometimes we sell them to McDonald's and just change them to special barbecue sauce. Across the table from Martin and Debi, Dennis turns to Darius.
DENNIS: What do you think about black coaching in the NFL, Darius? Because I think it's great.
DARIUS: I don't pay much attention to I have to agree with you Dennis. It's good to see that the owners are willing to put the franchise behind a black head coach or QB when for years in the league they've been kept out of the thinking positions and relegated mainly to the physical But now, you see, you have Warren Moon at the helm, Cunningham, Art Shell, and the coach up at Dennis Green. And if you remember, Doug Williams was the first black man to prove that on a Superbowl Amy leans in to Martin.
MIKE: I have to agree with you Dennis. It's good to see that the owners are willing to put the franchise behind a black head coach or QB when for years in the league they've been kept out of the thinking positions and relegated mainly to the physical But now, you see, you have Warren Moon at the helm, Cunningham, Art Shell, and the coach up at Dennis Green. And if you remember, Doug Williams was the first black man to prove that on a Superbowl Amy leans in to Martin.
DENNIS: But now, you see, you have Warren Moon at the helm, Cunningham, Art Shell, and the coach up at Dennis Green. And if you remember, Doug Williams was the first black man to prove that on a Superbowl Amy leans in to Martin.
MIKE: Dennis Green. And if you remember, Doug Williams was the first black man to prove that on a Superbowl Amy leans in to Martin.
AMY: ( to Martin ) I'm teaching art at Cedar Junior High School.
DENNIS: .Yeah, listen. Where do you stand on this whole Louis Farrakhan I'm a De Klerk man myself. Debi nods, indicating to the deejay stand.
DARIUS: ( facetious ) I'm a De Klerk man myself. Debi nods, indicating to the deejay stand.
DEBI: I'm going over to play some tunes. Martin watches her walk away.
DAN: Look at her. There it is. Jenny Slater. The finest thing that ever walked these halls.
DAN: Yeah, he's around here somewhere. What a shame. She would have looked great in my fucking Bentley.
DAN: She's a paramedic in Skokie, Illinois.
DAN: You know what I'm really hoping? That Jenny Slater gets divorced. And she's twenty-eight
DAN: She's twenty-eight years old, with two kids, she's still really really fine, and I see her at a bookstore or something, and she sees me for what I was then, and what I am now: the redemption for all her failure.
BOB DESTEPHANO: Dancing drunkenly, miserable, like an unbalanced orangutan.
DEBI: Which would you rather.?
MARTIN: Okay. Would you rather. commit yourself sexually to a four-by-nine cell with former President George Herbert Walker Bush dressed as a super-model for a month, or make love to a otter on crank for a week?
DEBI: Soft. I'll take the junkie otter, clearly! I'd let the little beast scratch and claw all he wants. Okay. Would you rather make love to the candied corpse of Phyllis Diller
MARTIN: She's not dead-
DEBI: It's just a game.! Alright. Candied Diller, or. wear a hot pork vest across the desert with a fully digested crab apple in your mouth?
MARTIN: Wow. I have to give this some thought.
DEBI: No time.
MARTIN: Okay, then. Clearly candied Diller. STACEY breaks the moment, looking up at the two, horrified and unsure at what she's heard.
STACEY: Marty! Debi! How are you! So many people came, but I never expected to see you Marty. Or you Debi. I mean. because of what your divorce. I didn't mean to say that. I just meant you look so good.
DEBI: Thank you.
STACEY: Do you think you could play "Too Shy'" by Kaja Goo Goo?
DEBI: Stacey, why don't you come up here and take over for a little while?
STACEY: I'd love to. Stacey nods thanks and makes her way up into the booth as Martin and Debi make their way down.
DEBI: ( to Martin ) Everybody thinks they know me now that I'm divorced. She leads Martin toward the exit.
DEBI: It's time to see you in private.
MARTIN: Even though I left, you never left me. Not just memory but a substance in my blood.
DEBI: ( smiling ) Like heroin?
MARTIN: Too junky-kitschy. Deeper, deeper.
DEBI: ( enjoying this ) Like love?
MARTIN: Could be. The physical substance of Debi stops.
DEBI: I'll accept that. Follow me. Together they move into what appears to be the Nurse's Office, and close the door behind them.
MCCULLERS: Looks like someone keeps trying to do our job for us.
LARDNER: If he does our job, he's our job.
MCCULLERS: I get it.
FELIX: steps through the doorway he's standing in and strolls into the crowded gym. He wears the standard khaki-pants-blue-blazer combo, with no nametag. He's clearly too old for the class of 1984.
DEBI: I'll be right back.. Debi kisses him. They split up. Martin walks off, the happiest we've seen him..
BOB: So. You and Debi. Gonna hit that shit again?
MARTIN: Fine, Bob. How are you?
BOB: Never better.
MARTIN: Bob crumbles.
BOB: Ahhh. it's all fucked up. Nothing adds up to nothing. you work your whole life, day in and day out try to make sense of it all. One day you're twenty-seven and what do you get to show for it.
MARTIN: You could've been a contender, huh? Bob realizes he can't even express his own tragedy without the use of cliches.
BOB: Smart boy. Real smart. Let's see how smart you are with my foot up your ass! I'm gonna kick your ass! Martin steps to Bob.
MARTIN: Why would you want to hit me, Bob? Do you really believe that there's some stored up conflict that needs resolution between us? We don't exist. There's nothing between us. So who do you want to hit, Bob? It's not Bob slumps against the lockers, deflated.
BOB: What am I gonna do?
MARTIN: What do you want to do?
BOB: I want to be an actor.
MARTIN: Then express yourself, Bob. Bob frowns, trying to think of a way to express himself.
MARTIN: ( catching him ) Be honest. Bob backs up and lets out a huge, drunken caveman scream, then stops abruptly, and smiles.
BOB: Later, Martin. Bob backpedals down the hallway and out of sight. Martin watches him stumble out of the hallway and bang through the doors of a stairwell, disappearing.
FELIX: impaled through the throat on the pen, his head snapped back.
DEBI: who is frozen, horrified for a moment. She flees.
MARTIN: looks back at
FELIX: THE FLOOR A growing pool of blood.
THE FLOOR: A growing pool of blood.
MARTIN: Looks around wildly, holding Felix up against the lockers. Above the lockers is a plastic banner proclaiming
MARTIN: rips it down from the wall with his free hand, wraps it around Felix, stuffs the body into his open locker, and slams it shut. He pulls off his shoes and socks, puts a sock over each hand like mittens, and wipes up the small pool of blood. He stuffs the socks into his pockets, takes off down the hall, and bangs through the doors.
MARTIN: pulls the doors shut, and takes off down the hall.
MARTIN'S POV: of the Deejay booth. It is empty. He moves over to the bar and joins Ken Aldridge. He motions to the bartender who opens a beer for him.
MARTIN: Have you seen Debi Newberry?
KEN: They both look around at the last of the reunion.
KEN: The more things change, the more they Goddamned well stay the same.
MARTIN: I guess. Before Ken can get started again.
MARTIN: Take care of yourself, Ken. Thanks for the pen. Martin walks out of the gym.
PAUL: What the hell happened to you?
MARTIN: I was catching up with Bob Destephano.
PAUL: As long as you had a good time. Beat. Martin scans the lot for sign of Debi.
PAUL: What now? Chase the girl? There is a beat of silence. Nothing seems worth saying.
MARTIN: It didn't work out.
PAUL: That's too bad.
MARTIN: I have to get my head back into my Work's good for the soul. Martin gets up to leave.
PAUL: Work's good for the soul. Martin gets up to leave.
MARTIN: When you see Debi, tell her I'm sorry.
PAUL: See you in ten years. Paul watches him leave. He almost stops him, but thinks better of it.
MARTIN PULLS: THE DOSSIER from the briefcase. It's seal is broken, but the contents remain enclosed. He withdraws the package and dumps the contents on the bed. His face registers muted shock.
MARTIN: Dumb fucking luck.
THE CONTENTS: include various photos of MR. NEWBERRY, Mr. Newberry with Debi, and the house. The photos are mingled with official- looking papers including credit reports, medical records, etc. Newberry's life. He cocks his head toward the door anticipating a. KNOCK. He freezes, then plucks a gun tapped under a desk, and moves toward the door, pointing. Halfway to the door, his face and body slacken. He lobs the gun onto the bed. With everything gone wrong, there is nothing left to defend. He goes to the door and opens it, body relaxed, expecting a bullet. Debi moves past him into the room. She is completely calm.
DEBI: He was trying to kill you, right!
MARTIN: Not the other way around.?
DEBI: Not the other way around.?
MARTIN: Is it something you've done?
DEBI: Is it something you've done?
MARTIN: It's something I do. .About five years now.
MARTIN: .About five years now.
MARTIN: .About five years now.
DEBI: ( stunned ) Get the fuck outta here.
MARTIN: Seriously, when I left, I joined the Army and took the service exam. They found my psych results fit a certain profile. A certain "Moral flexibility" would be the best way to describe it. I was loaned out to a CIA- sponsored program. It's called "mechanical operations." We sort of found each other.
DEBI: You're a government spook? Martin says nothing.
MARTIN: I was, but no. yes. I was before, but now I'm not. It's irrelevant, really. The idea of governments, nations, it's mostly a public relations theory at this point, anyway. But I'll tell you something, until about five months ago, I really enjoyed my work.
DEBI: Jesus Christ!
MARTIN: Then I started losing my taste for it. Which usually means your time is up. But then I realized it was something entirely different. I started getting the sneaking, dark suspicion that maybe there was. meaning to life.
DEBI: Okay. Great, Martin, that's just great. Meaning to life. Mmm..
MARTIN: Like, that there's a point? An organic connection between all living things.
DEBI: Let me help you along, Martin. You're a sociopath!
MARTIN: ( defensive ) A sociopath kills for no reason. I kill for money.
DEBI: You never could have kept this from I was leaving.
MARTIN: I was leaving.
DEBI: That's probably a good idea.
MARTIN: Will you come with me?
DEBI: I'm staying here.
MARTIN: What if I come back?
DEBI: I'll hide. She goes for the door.
MARTIN: Don't go. She stops at the door. Slowly, she turns.
DEBI: You don't get to have me. You are a monster, I'm a human being. We're not going to mate.
MARTIN: You don't understand.
DEBI: That's because I speak human, and you speak monster. Debi bolts out of the room. Martin is left alone. Martin looks over at his gear on the bed. After a beat, he walks slowly over and surveys his tools. He picks up a cleaning rag and begins to go over the weapons, absently singing to himself.
MARTIN: "What's up Doc? What's cookin'? What's up Doc, are you lookin'.?
MARCELLA: I'm bringing down the office now. She picks up her hard drive and smashes it on the floor. It's cathartic.
MARTIN: I'll put things right. Then I'll find you. Silence on the line.
MARCELLA: ( apprehensive ) Uh. why? Martin finishes his weapons check, and pulls out the dossier.
MARTIN: Don't worry. I left you a little something under your desk. Martin hangs up. Marcella goes to it and pulls loose from underneath a shrink- wrapped brick of $100 bills, probably a $100,000 or so.
MARCELLA: All right!!
GROCER: Oh shit.
NEWBERRY: What the fuck is the matter with Well, I was hired to kill you. It's what I do, and come to think of it, I told you that, but. Okay. I'm not going to do it. Get in the car. He does. They drive on.
MARTIN: Well, I was hired to kill you. It's what I do, and come to think of it, I told you that, but. Okay. I'm not going to do it. Get in the car. He does. They drive on.
MARTIN: It's either because I'm in love with your daughter, or because I have a new-found respect for life. Or both. But I don't know.
GROCER: That punk is either in love with that guy's daughter or he has new found respect for life. Let's go.
NEWBERRY: Why? I build cars! They're paying you to kill me? Why?
MARTIN: It was a cost-cutting effort. They can't afford a recall.
NEWBERRY: It was a leaky sunroof! A design flaw! I reported a leaky sunroof! You want to kill me because of that?
MARTIN: It's not me! Why does everybody think it's personal?! They go through the front door and shut it behind them.
LARDNER: We'll go in through the woods.
MARTIN: I was sitting in my house on prom night wearing that Goddamned rented tuxedo, a corsage in one hand, a bottle of champagne in the other. So I was just sitting there, and then the whole night flashed before my eyes, and it struck me like a bullet in the head I realized, finally, and for the first time, that. I wanted to kill somebody. So I figured because I loved you so much, that'd it'd be a good idea if I didn't see you anymore. But now I'm different. He turns and points the gun at the front door and FIRES two shots through it, leaving two baseball-size holes in the Martin bolts out of the room toward the back of the house. Debi and Newberry run as fast as they can away from Martin. Newberry opens the front door, preparing to rush out with Debi. They stop at what they see:
MARTIN: I'm in love with you. I know we can make this work!
MARTIN: rushes toward the island, grabbing an iron skillet off the range, and holds it up like a crossing-guard stop sign. He steps toward the hidden Assassin just as the Assassin rises SHOOTING. The skillet takes two rounds before Martin hammers the Assassin's head with it. Debi and Newberry arrive in the NEW ANGLE - LOW DUTCH Martin bashes the skillet into the Assassin's skull, which is beyond our view. He rises spattered with blood and looks at Debi.
MARTIN: I was afraid to commit to a relationship, but now I know I'm ready to make it happen. Martin drops the skillet and grabs Newberry and Debi gently be the wrists.
MARTIN: I just need time to change. He ushers them past the bludgeoned corpse and up the back stairs. He spins and FIRES twice back down the stairs at another ASSASSIN coming up, blowing his arms off.
HALLWAY: He leads them quickly.
MARTIN: It's not easy for me. I was raised to close off, to control my He takes them into a bedroom, and BLOWS AWAY, an ASSASSIN coming in through the window, emptying his auto. Martin pushes Debi and Newberry into an adjoining bathroom. He backs out through the doorway.
MARTIN: Lock the door. They do. Martin starts away, but stops to get something I wasn't raised in a loving But that's not an excuse. It's a INT. FOYER Martin corners the banister and springs half-way down the stairs, then hears the front door begin to open.
MARTIN: I wasn't raised in a loving But that's not an excuse. It's a INT. FOYER Martin corners the banister and springs half-way down the stairs, then hears the front door begin to open.
MARTIN: My soul was empty Martin jams in another clip, and chambers a round. He sees Grocer beginning to slip in.
MARTIN: and it's up to me to fill it. Martin FIRES the twelve-round clip into the door until the slide locks back empty again. Grocer backs out fast. Martin hears a gun REPORT from upstairs and moves back toward it, tossing the spent weapon.
MARTIN: ( through the door ) It's okay. It's Martin The door begins to open revealing Debi and Newberry.
MARTIN: I know what I do isn't moral, per se, but if you could just look past that, you'd see a man worth loving.
LARDNER: Did you see Blank in there?
MCCULLERS: Good. For a second there I thought we were in trouble.
LARDNER: Good. For a second there I thought we were in trouble.
MARTIN: reaches the top of the front stairs to find Grocer heading up the stairs at him. They lift their guns at each other to FIRE, when they hear.
GROCER: heads up the back stairs.
MARTIN: works his way toward Grocer, moving with stealth toward the hears him and starts back down. Martin dives behind the cooking island just as Grocer comes out of the stairwell blasting. They unload at each other as Grocer runs a pattern across the kitchen, FIRING at Martin, crouched, who BLASTS back. Grocer vaults himself through the air toward a serving window from the kitchen to the dining room, still firing.
GROCER: hears him and starts back down. Martin dives behind the cooking island just as Grocer comes out of the stairwell blasting. They unload at each other as Grocer runs a pattern across the kitchen, FIRING at Martin, crouched, who BLASTS back. Grocer vaults himself through the air toward a serving window from the kitchen to the dining room, still firing.
NORMAL SPEED: Flying through the air disappearing through the shuttered serving window, his flight carrying him past a television that sits on a lazy susan.
GROCER: Flying through the air disappearing through the shuttered serving window, his flight carrying him past a television that sits on a lazy susan.
GROCER: .How about I sell you two rounds for a hundred grand a piece?
MARTIN: Martin takes out a checkbook, and tears one free. He wads it into a loose ball and tosses it over the counter.
BALLED CHECK: sails over the television and comes down, bouncing off Grocer's head and into his lap.
MARTIN: There you go. I left it blank.
GROCER: Excellent. Here they come. Grocer pulls two rounds from the clip of his semi-automatic and pushes the clip back into the gun. Grocer arcs the TWO BULLETS into the air.
MARTIN: rises and springs at the television, gripping it. The TWO BULLETS sail past his head.
GROCER: begins to rise from his side of the counter, cocking his puts all his weight and motion behind the television. Martin and the television careen off of the counter toward Grocer.
MARTIN: puts all his weight and motion behind the television. Martin and the television careen off of the counter toward Grocer.
GROCER: gets off one round before
MARTIN: flies onto Grocer, smashing the seventy-five pound television over his Goddamn head. Martin sails past the collision, landing on his back in the dining room. He rolls over to see
GROCER: Body crumpled, neck is snapped, head encased in the shattered picture tube. He is dead.
MARTIN: runs up the front stairs, retrieving the spent gun he discarded earlier, and heads into the bedroom.
DEBI: This is WRFN Radio Free Newberry cause that's what it does. Bringing you New Ones for the Nineties, a fresh new format designed to pull you out of what's come before, and reel you into what's coming soon
DEBI: I tell you what's coming soon for me, or at least what I dreamed this morning in that weird time just before you actually wake up. But first this commercial. Back after this. She pushes a couple of buttons, slaps a cartridge in a player, and answers the phone. We hear the commercial over the studio Don't miss the show of the season at Bilkin Community Center! "Brigadoon!" A musical for all ages! "Brigadoon," starring Carol Plummer, Thomas Canchola, Bob Destephano, and Lee Debi picks up the phone.
ANNOUNCER: Don't miss the show of the season at Bilkin Community Center! "Brigadoon!" A musical for all ages! "Brigadoon," starring Carol Plummer, Thomas Canchola, Bob Destephano, and Lee Debi picks up the phone.
DEBI: Her face goes slack as she listens. not good, not bad. Then she hangs up slowly. The commercial ends. A moment of dead air, then she snaps to.
DEBI: Hey out there. Okay. I'm going to finish up that fantasy later. First I'll give you an hour of nonstop music. If I don't come back on after that well, nevermind. Debi turns on a reel-to-reel, and leaves.
MARTIN: sitting on the front steps. Debi moves slowly up the walk and sits next to him on the porch. They sit, gazing out over the grass and trees beyond. After a while.
DEBI: This will never work out. She turns to him, serious.
DEBI: You kill people.
MARTIN: I have no illusions about the future. What is, is. We make choices. And we become the sum total of our choices. I can live with that.
DEBI: Other people can't. Martin looks at her earnestly. And smiles ever so slightly. She does the same, and then just a little wider. He the same. They turn back out to face the lawn, and they share a laugh.
THE END: Writers : Tom Jankiewicz D.V. deVincentis S.K. Boatman John Cusack
