GROUNDHOG DAY: Written by Danny Rubin
FADE IN: HIBERNATING GROUNDHOGS A family of groundhogs is nestled together in their burrow sleeping off the end of a long winter.
HIBERNATING GROUNDHOGS: A family of groundhogs is nestled together in their burrow sleeping off the end of a long winter.
HAWLEY: Christ, what a pit. Phil" The sleeping figure rouses himself and looks out at Hawley. It's Phil, the .Channel 9 Action News weatherman.
PHIL: ( SLEEPY ) It's February first, Phil. You know what tomorrow is? Phil sits up and.thinks hard. He's in his mid-thirties, smart, rugged-looking, perhaps a little too full of himself, but clearly a guy with a lot of personality.
HAWLEY: It's February first, Phil. You know what tomorrow is? Phil sits up and.thinks hard. He's in his mid-thirties, smart, rugged-looking, perhaps a little too full of himself, but clearly a guy with a lot of personality.
PHIL: ( catching on ) Oh, no! Not again. He jumps up and exits the office with Hawley right behind him.
PHIL: Forget it! I'm not going.
PHIL: Get away from me. I'm working.
HAWLEY: So what's the outlook? We gonna get that blizzard? Phil shakes his head and points to the chart which is headed "Phil's Phorecast" with a cute caricature of himself drawn next to the title.
PHIL: No way. All that moisture coming up from the Gulf is going to miss us completely and take a dump on ( with authority ) Good, 'cause you're going up to Punxsutawney to cover the groundhog story tomorrow morning and I want you back here in time to do the five.
HAWLEY: ( with authority ) Good, 'cause you're going up to Punxsutawney to cover the groundhog story tomorrow morning and I want you back here in time to do the five.
PHIL: Jesus, Gil, give me a break, will you! I covered the goddamn groundhog last year and the year before that.
HAWLEY: And you'll do it :next year and the year after, too. When I worked in San Diego, I covered the swallows coming back to Capistrano for ten years in a You should've killed the guy who made you do that.
PHIL: You should've killed the guy who made you do that.
HAWLEY: I wanted to do it.
PHIL: Then you should've killed yourself. I don't want to get stuck with the groundhog for the rest of my life.
HAWLEY: It's a cute story. He comes out, he looks around, he wrinkles up his little nose, he sniffs around a little, he sees his shadow, he d oesn't see his shadow it's nice. People like it.
PHIL: Many people are morons.
HAWLEY: Just do it.
PHIL: What'11 you give me? Hawley looks across the studio and sees RITA HANSON enter, a very attractive segment producer in her late twenties.
HAWLEY: ( to Phil ) I'll give you Rita. ( calls her over ) Rita, could you come here for a second? I got a little job for Rita is relatively new to the station, but very competent, personable, humorous, self-assured and very pretty in short, a genuine princess, though Phil is too self-absorbed at this point to realize it.
PHIL: ( TEASING ) You can't send Rita out on a story like this. She's just a cub, a pup, still wet behind the ears. Look at her. Her ears are sopping wet. This needs a Woodward or a Bernstein. It's a big story. People need to know.
RITA: ( INTRIGUED ) What's the story?
HAWLEY: The Punxsutawney Groundhog Gil, if it's all right with you I ' d rather follow-up on the nurses' strike.
RITA: Gil, if it's all right with you I ' d rather follow-up on the nurses' strike.
HAWLEY: You can do the nurses when you get back. Just take the squeaky wheel here up to Punxsutawney and get him back in one piece. Okay?
RITA: Yeah, okay. Hawley exits leaving Phil and Rita alone in the studio. She knows Phil mainly by his reputation and it isn't good. Still, she finds him appealing in an odd way.
PHIL: ( PLEASANTLY ) You know, this could be extremely I've never done a weather story before. What's Punxsutawney Oh, it's an enchanted place. A magical world. It's the Constantinople of the whole Western Appalachian-Susquehanna Drainage system.
RITA: I've never done a weather story before. What's Punxsutawney Oh, it's an enchanted place. A magical world. It's the Constantinople of the whole Western Appalachian-Susquehanna Drainage system.
PHIL: Oh, it's an enchanted place. A magical world. It's the Constantinople of the whole Western Appalachian-Susquehanna Drainage system.
RITA: Do you always joke?
PHIL: About 70 to 80% of the time. Inside I'm actually a very shy and sensitive person.
RITA: A lot of people around here think you're not very sincere.
PHIL: Tell me the names of these I'll line up a crew and transportation. If you don't feel like driving, we can all go up in the van together.
RITA: I'll line up a crew and transportation. If you don't feel like driving, we can all go up in the van together.
PHIL: I think I'll take my own car. I ' m not that fond of my fellow ( EXITING ) Nice attitude.
RITA: ( EXITING ) Nice attitude.
PHIL: Nice face. ( calls after her ) Why don't you ride up with me?
RITA: No, thanks. STEPHANIE DECASTRO , an attractive, dark-eyed, dark-haired correspondent, glares at Phil from across the studio.
PHIL: ( on the phone ) They don't really think of me as a weatherman around here. More of a "personality," but with the credibility of a first-class broadcast journalist. Once you look at my tape I think you'll see what they mean. Stephanie enters and stands in the doorway looking at Phil for a long moment. There is something vaguely off-center about this woman, not quite FATAL ATTRACTION but still a little ( BITTERLY ) I just want to know one thing: did I do something wrong or are you just tired of me or what? I have to know. Phil sighs.
STEPHANIE: ( BITTERLY ) I just want to know one thing: did I do something wrong or are you just tired of me or what? I have to know. Phil sighs.
PHIL: ( on the phone ) Dan, can I call you back? I've just been handed something and I better get on it. ( he picks up some papers and rustles them for effect ) .Okay, thanks.
PHIL: ( KINDLY ) You didn't do anything wrong, Stephanie, and I ' m not tired of you. It's just that I don't have time for a real relationship right now. I told you that the first time we went out.
STEPHANIE: ( getting close ) Everybody says that at the beginning of a relationship.
PHIL: ( gently pushing her
AWAY ): I'm different. I really meant it! Things are really starting to move for me now. I ' m not going to be doing the weather for the rest of my life. I was just talking to the CBS guy about a network job. I want that. This is just the beginning for me. I can't waste any more time.
STEPHANIE: Are you saying our relationship was a waste of time?
PHIL: Our relationship? We went out a total of four times! And only twice did anything happen. It was fun but I don't see that as a big commitment.
STEPHANIE: ( closing in again ) I had our charts done. My astrologer says we're extremely compatible. There may even be some past lives involvement here.
PHIL: See? So we've already done this. Let's move on. Next case.
STEPHANIE: You know what's wrong with you, Phil? You're selfish. You don't have time for anyone but That's what I ' m trying to tell you. You don't want to be with me. You can do better. Look, Stephanie, if I ever said or did anything to mislead you I'm sorry for that, but right now I have to do this groundhog thing and I don't have a handle on it yet. He throws some papers and his datebook into a briefcase and puts on his jacket.
PHIL: That's what I ' m trying to tell you. You don't want to be with me. You can do better. Look, Stephanie, if I ever said or did anything to mislead you I'm sorry for that, but right now I have to do this groundhog thing and I don't have a handle on it yet. He throws some papers and his datebook into a briefcase and puts on his jacket.
PHIL: . . . . I thought maybe you could meet me up there tonight and let me vulgarize you for about seven hours..So I ' m supposed to spend the night in Punxsutawney all alo ne? Thanks.
A SIGN: "Welcome to Punxsutawney - The Original Weather Capitol of the World Since 1887." Depicted on the sign is a large cartoon GROUNDHOG wearing a top hat and clutching an umbrella under his The mini-convoy passes some fast food places on the outskirts of town.
PHIL: ( calls out ) Rita! I can't stay here. Rita is already helping Larry unload equipment from the van.
LARRY: ( MUTTERING ) Prima donnas.
RITA: It's okay. I'll handle it. She crosses to the Lexus where Phil is trying to make another call on his earphone.
RITA: What's the problem, Phil?
PHIL: I hate this place. I stayed here two years ago and I was miserable. It's like a minimum security prison. I'm not staying You're not staying here.
RITA: You're not staying here.
PHIL: ( BRIGHTENING ) I ' m not?
RITA: No, Larry and I don't care but I thought you might, so I booked you at a very nice bed and breakfast on Cherry Street. Here's the address. She hands him a card.
PHIL: ( PLEASED ) Great. That's great. That's the mark of a really good producer. Making the talent happy.
RITA: Whatever I can do.
PHIL: Really? Will you be my love Whatever I can do within reason. Would you like to have dinner with Larry and me?
RITA: Whatever I can do within reason. Would you like to have dinner with Larry and me?
PHIL: No thanks, I've seen Larry eat. Why don't you ditch Larry and let me take you someplace nice?
RITA: You mean like a date?
PHIL: Oh, no.
RITA: Oh, no.
PHIL: Okay. I get it. You're a little intimidated by me, you're all excited about the shoot tomorrow, you want everything to go just perfect. I understand. You just get some sleep. Tomorrow will be Well, that's something to look forward to. I'll see you in the He drives off, leaving her standing there shaking her head.
RITA: Well, that's something to look forward to. I'll see you in the He drives off, leaving her standing there shaking her head.
LARRY: Did he actually call himself "the Larry snorts and continues unloading their gear.
DEEJAY: Okay, campers, rise and shine, and don't forget your booties because it's COOOLD out there
TODAY1: Phil grimaces and swings out of bed.
SIDEK ICK: It's cold out there everyday. W hat is this Miami Beach? The deejay laughs. Phil shakes his head at the cheesy repartee as he crosses to the sink and starts brushing his teeth.
DEEJAY: Not hardly. And you can expect hazardous travel later today with that, you know, blizzard thing
SIDEKICK: That "blizzard thing?" Phil splashes some water on his face and prepares to shave.
DEEJAY: Yes they are, but there's another reason today is very special
SIDEKICK: Es pec ia lly cold
DEEJAY: Especially cold, okay, but the big question on everybody's lips
SIDEKICK: Ch ap pe d lips
DEEJAY: :on their chapped lips, right Do you think Phil's going to come out and see his shadow?
SIDEKICK: Punxsutawney Phil. Phil looks up at himself in the mirror, admiring his own face.
DEEJAY: That's right, rodent lovers!
IT'S: BOTH DEEJAYS Groundhog Day1 SOUND EFFECT of GRUNTING GROUNDHOGS. Phil grunts at his reflection in the mirror.
BOTH DEEJAYS: Groundhog Day1 SOUND EFFECT of GRUNTING GROUNDHOGS. Phil grunts at his reflection in the mirror.
PHIL: ( to himself ) Never again.
CHUBBY MAN: Morning .
PHIL: Morning .
CHUBBY MAN: Think it'll be an early Spring?
PHIL: I ' m predicting March 21st.
MRS. LANCASTER: Did you sleep well, Mr. Connors?
PHIL: ( with mock civility ) Like a Roumanian orphan, Mrs. MRS. LANCASTER Would you like some coffee?
MRS. LANCASTER: Would you like some coffee?
PHIL: I don't suppose it1 d be possible to get an espresso or a capuccino around here.
MRS. LANCASTER: ( BLANKLY ) I don't really know
PHIL: Forget it. This '11 be fine.
MRS. LANCASTER: ( as she pours ) I wonder what the weather's going to be like for all the My guess is it'11 be cold and overcast, high today in the low 30's, dropping to the low 20's tonight, but I'm predicting that all that moisture coming up from the Gulf is going to miss us and dump some locally heavy snow, possibly blizzard conditions with travel advisories in the Harrisburg area and maybe as far east as .Philadelphia. ( off her surprised
PHIL: My guess is it'11 be cold and overcast, high today in the low 30's, dropping to the low 20's tonight, but I'm predicting that all that moisture coming up from the Gulf is going to miss us and dump some locally heavy snow, possibly blizzard conditions with travel advisories in the Harrisburg area and maybe as far east as .Philadelphia. ( off her surprised
LOOK ): You want to talk weather, you asked the right guy. He heads for the door.
PHIL: Unfortunately yes. Phil exits.
NED: Phil! Phil Connors! I thought that was you! Phil looks at him vaguely.
PHIL: ( at a loss ) I 'm sorry. Have we uh
NED: My oh my! Phil Connors. Don't say you don't remember me, 'cause I sure as heckrfire remember you. Phil stares, trying to remember.
NED: Ned Ryerson? Needlenose Ned? Ned the Head. Come on, buddy. Case Western High?
PHIL: I see you clicking through that brain of yours. Click-click, c li ck- cli ck, click-clickBing! Ned Ryerson, did the whistling trick with my belly button in the talent show. Bing! Ned Ryerson, got the shingles real bad senior ^year^ almost didn't graduate. Bing again! Ned Ryerson, went out with your sister Mary Pat a couple of times 'til you told me not to anymore. Well?
NED: I see you clicking through that brain of yours. Click-click, c li ck- cli ck, click-clickBing! Ned Ryerson, did the whistling trick with my belly button in the talent show. Bing! Ned Ryerson, got the shingles real bad senior ^year^ almost didn't graduate. Bing again! Ned Ryerson, went out with your sister Mary Pat a couple of times 'til you told me not to anymore. Well?
PHIL: ( RESIGNED ) Ned Ryerson.
NED: So what're you doing with yourself, Ned?
PHIL: So what're you doing with yourself, Ned?
NED: Phil, I sell insurance.
PHIL: ( sorry he asked ) No kidding.
NED: Do you have life insurance, Phil? 'Cause if you do, I bet you could u s e more who couldn't?but I got a feeling you don't have any. Am I right?
PHIL: You know, Ned, I ' d love to talk to you but I really have to Phil starts to walk away,,but Ned won't take the hint.
NED: That's okay. I'll walk with you. When I see an opportunity, I charge it, like a bull. Ned the Bull, that's me now. Some of my friends live and die by actuarial tables, but I think it's all just a crap shoot anyhoo. Ever heard of single .premium life? That could be the ticket for you, buddy. God, it's good to see you! Hey, what're you doing for Dinner? Umm, I don't think that's going to work for me. As they continue walking, Phil steps into what looks like a shallow puddle and ends up ankle deep in wet slush. Ned laughs like a donkey.
PHIL: Dinner? Umm, I don't think that's going to work for me. As they continue walking, Phil steps into what looks like a shallow puddle and ends up ankle deep in wet slush. Ned laughs like a donkey.
NED: Hey, look out for that first step! It's a doozy! Phil looks at him with murderous contempt.
RITA: How could he be late?
LARRY: Prima donnas.
RITA: It's just so inconsiderate.
LARRY: What happens to some people? They're born nice. They grow up nice. You put 'em on TV and - bam! Prima donnas. Rita spots Phil heading into the crowd.
RITA: Here he comes. Phil! Hey, Phil. Over here! Phil joins them in the press area. Rita pulls him to his mark near the rail fence.
RITA: Where've you been?
PHIL: I got hung up with some jerk I went to high school with. So, did you sleep okay without me? You tossed and turned, didn't Rita holds up a slate for Larry to ID the tape.
RITA: You're incredible.
PHIL: Who told you?
RITA: Ready when you are. Phil takes the microphone from Rita and positions himself against the fence. The Groundhog Club Officials in top hats, striped trousers and cutaway coats parade out to the burrow that houses Punxsutawney Looks like they're starting. Roll tape.
RITA: Looks like they're starting. Roll tape.
LARRY: Rita silently counts down from five and cues Phil who instantly snaps into announce mode.
PHIL: ( to camera ) Once a year, the eyes of the nation turn here, to this tiny hamlet in Pennsylvania, to watch a master at work. The master? Punxsutawney Phil, the world's most famous weatherman, the groundhog, who, as legend has it, can predict the coming of an early spring. Rita turns to Larry. This is impressive so far, so good. A Groundhog Club Official kneels at the burrow and ceremoniously knocks on the small wooden door, then opens it and retreats.
PHIL: And here's the big moment we've all been waiting for. Let's just see what Mr. Groundhog has to The groundhog sticks his head out, looks around, steps out of the hole, and runs over to the other side of the mound, about as far away from the cameras as he can get.
PHIL: Hey! Over here, you little Larry zooms in as far as he can but the best he can manage is a close-up of the groundhog's back. The groundhog stands there a moment, his body casting a long shadow, then he lets out a squeak and runs back into the hole.
PHIL: Great shot, huh, folks? Well, that was certainly worth the trip. Now we'll be hearing from Mr. Buster Greene, President of the Punxsutawney Groundhog Club, the so-called Seer of Seers who will interpret for us. BUSTER GREENE, dressed up in his top hat and cutaway coat, walks onto the mound and hushes the crowd.
PHIL: ( sarcastic, to camera ) Well, that's it. Sorry you couldn't be here in person to share the electric moment. This is one event where televison really fails to capture the excitement of thousands of people gathered to watch a large squirrel predict the weather, and I for one am deeply grateful to have been a part of it. Reporting for Channel 9, this is Phil Connors. Larry cuts the camera.
RITA: ( to Phil ) You want to try one that's a little sweeter?
PHIL: ( to Rita ) That's as sweet as I get. I'm outa here. As he exits, Phil tosses the mike to Larry, who isn't expecting the throw and bobbles it, dropping the mike on the ground.
LARRY: ( MUTTERS ) Prima donnas.
RITA: That was really lousy.
PHIL: Is it my fault the little rat went south on us?
RITA: A real professional would have handled it. You acted like it was a personal insult. Who do you think you are Wolf Blitzer?
PHIL: God, you really take this stuff seriously, don't you.
RITA: Yes, I do. As far as I ' m concerned there are no little stories, Phil. Only little reporters with big egos who think they're too good for the job they have to do.
PHIL: ( trying to look hurt ) You really don't know me very well, do you. 'Cause if you did you could never say something like that about me. I care! Call me a cockeyed optimist but I happen to think there's more to this job than just getting my ugly mug on the boob tube every Is that so.
RITA: Is that so.
PHIL: Yes, that is so. Rita is so irritated by him she can't even respond. Phil looks at her evenly for a long moment.
PHIL: So as far as us getting together, would you say the glass is half empty or half full? Larry pokes his head in the doorway, looks around, spots Rita and makes his way over to their table.
LARRY: ( to Rita ) You ready? We better get going if we ' re going to stay ahead of the weather.
PHIL: You don't have to rush off, you know. That storm is 'going to miss us completely.
RITA: Nice working with you, Phil. See you around. Rita walks away, leaving him sitting alone.
PHIL: Sabrina ? Can you hear me? Shit! He slams the phone back into it's cradle, then looks up and notices slow traffic up ahead. He honks his horn as the traffic comes to a complete stop. He keeps honking but nothing He rolls down the window and looks up ahead. The highway is a parking lot.
PHIL: No. No!
PHIL: What's going on, Officer?
PATROLMAN: Nothin's goin1 on. We're closin1 the road. Big accident up ahead. Blizzard movin1 in.
PHIL: What blizzard? A couple of flakes! An isolated phenomenon of nature.
PATROLMAN: Are you nuts? We got a major storm movin' in.
PHIL: No, no. All that moisture is going to miss us and hit Pal, you got that moisture on your head.
PATROLMAN: Pal, you got that moisture on your head.
PHIL: But I have to get to Pittsburgh Mister, the only place anybody's goin' on this road is back to Phil glowers at him and shivers.
PATROLMAN: Mister, the only place anybody's goin' on this road is back to Phil glowers at him and shivers.
PHIL: So all the long distance lines a re down? What about the sa tellite? Is it snowing in space?.But I have to call Pittsburgh.Isn't there some special line you keep open for emergencies or for celebrities?.Well, I'm both really. I'm a celebrity in an emergency. Can you patch me through on that line?
PHIL: You never saw me on TV on the I don't think so. What part of the news do you do?
NANCY: I don't think so. What part of the news do you do?
PHIL: I ' m the White House correspondent for NBC news.
NANCY: Oh , I ' m so sure .
PHIL: Ask me anything?
NANCY: Okay, how big is the White House?
PHIL: Three bedrooms, two and a half baths. Looks much bigger than it , is. Nancy just stares at him, clearly not into his sense of humor. Suddenly, a BRIDE in full white wedding gown and veil rushes into the bar, crying and shouting. A gaggle of BRIDESMAIDS flutters around her trying to coax her back to her own wedding but she won't budge. Then the GROOM, wearing a bad rented tux, comes storming in and tries to drag her back, until the BEST MAN restrains him and the bridesmaids hustle the bride away. Phil watches the whole drama play out, then turns back to Nancy .
PHIL: Good start. I ' m sure they'll be very happy. So what do you say? You want to play doggie obedience school with me?
NANCY: Thanks. I'll pass. She gets up to leave.
PHIL: Sit! Stay! He watches her go, then tosses a tip on the bar and exits somewhat unsteadily.
INSERT: Phil's business card is dropped into a dish. Then the Tarot card of the Hanged Man, a chicken bone, and a feather are placed on top of it .
PHIL: He stands at the sink, looking at himself in the mirror, flexing his muscles .
STEPHANIE: Reading from the book language, then she sprinkles some powder on the plate, then a few drops of oil. Then she makes a few passes over it with her hands and, much to her surprise, the contents of the plate spontaneously combust.
PHIL: As he crosses to the bed, he accidentally knocks over the suitcase stand, spilling his clothes out onto the floor.
STEPHANIE: To complete the spell, she picks up a broken wristwatch and drops it into the fire.
INSERT: Phil's business card, the Hanged Man and the broken watch in flames. The watch crystal is cracked and the hands are frozen at 5:59.
DEEJAY: Okay, campers, rise and shine, and don't forget your booties because it's COOOLD out there It's cold out there everyday. What is this Miami Beach? The deejay laughs. Phil "mock" laughs at exactly the same time, recognizing the repartee from the previous morning.
SIDEKICK: It's cold out there everyday. What is this Miami Beach? The deejay laughs. Phil "mock" laughs at exactly the same time, recognizing the repartee from the previous morning.
PHIL: ( to himself ) Nice going guys. That's yesterday's tape. Phil crosses to the sink and gets a towel off the rack, only half-listening to the radio.
DEEJAY: Not hardly. Expect hazardous travel later today with that, you know, blizzard thing
SIDEKICK: That "blizzard thing?" Phil turns on the water and splashes some on his face as if trying to wake himself up, vaguely disturbed by the repetition of the broadcast.
DEEJAY: Yes they are, but there's another reason today is very special
SIDEKICK: Especially cold
DEEJAY: Especially cold, okay, but the big question on everybody's lips Phil supplies the next line in unison with the radio.
DEEJAY: on their chapped lips, right Do you think Phil's going to come out and see his shadow?
SIDEKICK: Punxsutawney Phil. Some vague doubt causes Phil to go to the window.
DEEJAY: That's right, rodent lovers!
IT'S: BOTH DEEJAYS Groundhog Day! SOUND EFFECT of GRUNTING GROUNDHOGS as Phil pulls back the curtains and looks out.
BOTH DEEJAYS: Groundhog Day! SOUND EFFECT of GRUNTING GROUNDHOGS as Phil pulls back the curtains and looks out.
HIS POV: The street is full of people heading toward Gobbler's Knob, exactly as they did the day before.
PHIL: ( AGHAST ) What the hell?
CHUBBY MAN: CHUBBY MAN Think it'll be an early Spring?
PHIL: CHUBBY MAN Think it'll be an early Spring?
CHUBBY MAN: Think it'll be an early Spring?
PHIL: ( stops, irritated ) Didn't we do this yesterday?
CHUBBY MAN: ( INTIMIDATED ) I don't know what you mean. Phil grabs him by the front of his shirt and looks deep into his eyes.
PHIL: Don't mess with me, pork chop. What day is this?
CHUBBY MAN: ( TERRIFIED ) Febr uary secondGroundhog Day! Phil can see he's telling the truth and relaxes his grip on the poor man.
PHIL: Okay. Sorry. I'm having a bad Phil walks on, leaving the chubby man baffled and insulted.
CHUBBY MAN: ( to himself ) I'll say.
MRS. LANCASTER: Did you sleep well, Mr. Connors?
PHIL: ( completely confused ) D i d I? I don't know
MRS. LANCASTER: Would you like some coffee?
PHIL: Yes, thank you. I ' m feeling a little strange.
MRS. LANCASTER: ( as she pours ) I wonder what the weather's going to be like for all the Did you ever have deja vu, Mrs. MRS. LANCASTER Is that the Italian dessert with the brandy and the chocolate No, that's spaghetti. Never He heads for the door, still in a daze.
PHIL: Did you ever have deja vu, Mrs. MRS. LANCASTER Is that the Italian dessert with the brandy and the chocolate No, that's spaghetti. Never He heads for the door, still in a daze.
MRS. LANCASTER: Is that the Italian dessert with the brandy and the chocolate No, that's spaghetti. Never He heads for the door, still in a daze.
PHIL: No, that's spaghetti. Never He heads for the door, still in a daze.
MRS. LANCASTER: Oh, will you be checking out today, Mr. Connors?
PHIL: ( VAGUELY ) I don't know. I don't think so. I'll tell you after I wake up. Phil exits.
PHIL: Ma'am? Excuse me. Where's everybody going?
PASSERBY: To Gobbler's Knob. It's Groundhog Day! The coffee cup drops from Phil's hand as he stands there open- mouthed. Then he slaps his own face and shakes his head as if trying to clear it and starts off down the street.
NED: Phil! Phil Connors! I thought that was you! Phil just stares at him and keeps walking.
NED: My oh my! Phil Connors. Don't say you don't remember me, 'cause I sure as heck-fire remember you. Ned Ryerson?
PHIL: Ned Ryerson?
NED: Bing! First shot right out of the box. So how's it going, ol' To tell you the truth, Neddy, I ' m not feeling real well. Could you excuse me?
PHIL: To tell you the truth, Neddy, I ' m not feeling real well. Could you excuse me?
NED: Now it's funny you should mention your health 'cause you'll never guess what I do.
PHIL: ( very distressed and desperate to get away from this guy ) Do you sell insurance, Ned?
NED: Bing again! You're sharp as a tack today. Do you have life insurance, Phil? 'Cause if you do, I bet you could use more who couldn't?" but I got a feeling you don't have any. Am I right?
PHIL: ( really annoyed now ) Did I say "fuck off, " Ned? I can't talk to you right now. He backs away from Ned and steps right into the same deep, slushy puddle he stepped in the day before.
NED: ( BRAYING ) Hey, look .out for that first v step. It's a doozyi Phil looks down at his wet shoes and cuffs and stumbles off toward Gobbler's Knob.
RITA: Here he comes. Phill Hey, Phil! Over here! Phil waves to her and heads straight for an obscure corner of the Knob, gesturing for her to follow. Larry shakes his head as Rita charges through the crowd toward Phil. She catches up to him just as he is scratching a mark in the snow with his foot. She notices immediately that he is uncharacteristically dishevelled, his tie askew, his hair Where ' ve you been?
RITA: Where ' ve you been?
PHIL: ( nervous, sweat ing ) I've got to talk to you. I think I'm losing my mind.
. RITA: I know you're losing it. What are you doing over here? The camera's over there.
PHIL: Slap me, Rita.
RITA: What is this?
PHIL: ( INSISTENT ) Just slap me hard. She gives up and taps him lightly on the cheek.
PHIL: I said hardl
PHIL: Do it! Rita shrugs and slaps him very hard.
PHIL: ( his cheek smarting ) Better. Almost too hard, Rita.
RITA: Are you drunk?
PHIL: No, drunk is more fun. Can I be serious with you for a minute?
RITA: I don't know. Can you?
PHIL: Yes. I ' m being serious. I' m having a problem no, I may be having a problem.
RITA: What are you trying to say?
PHIL: I'm trying to say that if I was having a problem, just hypothetical ly, I ' d like to know that you're someone I could count on in a crisis.
RITA: ( WORRIED ) What did you do last night? The crowd begins to hush.
LARRY: We better get started. We're going to miss it.
PHIL: Were not going to miss it. ( indicating the other
REPORTERS ): They're going to miss it.
RITA: ( EMPHATIC ) Phil. We've been out here for an hour. We're cold and tired. Let's just get this and get out of here.
PHIL: Okay, put it here.
RITA: Put the camera here . Rita takes a forlorn glance towards the press area, where all of the other cameras are set up .
PHIL: Put the camera here . Rita takes a forlorn glance towards the press area, where all of the other cameras are set up .
RITA: Phil , there is no tomorrow on this one. It's Groundhog Day.
PHIL: We were in the wrong spot yesterday .
RITA: ( IRKED ) W ha t? Yesterday? What are you talking about?
PHIL: Just trust me. Put the camera here .
RITA: She charges off toward the cameras. In the Press Area, several reporters are already talking to their cameras, dribbling on about how "He could appear any second now." Rita and Larry grab their gear and rush back to Larry hurriedly sets up the camera.
LARRY: You want me to roll tape?
RITA: ( to Phil ) Are you going to get on your No hurry. Larry glances over at the other news reporters, all talking to their cameras and pointing towards the mound.
PHIL: No hurry. Larry glances over at the other news reporters, all talking to their cameras and pointing towards the mound.
LARRY: ( DESPERATELY ) Everyone else is rolling! Rita looks helplessly at Phil.
RITA: I'm begging you, all right? Gould we please just do this? Phil glances down at his watch.
PHIL: Okay, let's do it. He crosses over to Larry and taps him on the shoulder.
PHIL: Roll tape.
LARRY: ( MUMBLING ) Prima donnas. Phil takes the microphone from Rita and positions himself against the fence.
LARRY: Phil does a similar intro to the one he did before, though this time it's a bit tentative.
PHIL: ( to camera ) We ll, it's Groundhog Day again and you know what that means. Everybody's here on Gobbler's Knob waiting in the cold for the appearance of the most famous groundhog in the world, Punxsutawney Phil, who's going to tell us just how much more of this we can expect. The Groundhog Club Official knocks on the groundhog's door, then opens it and retreats. Phil takes a deep breath and makes his first experimental prediction, recalling the previous day.
PHIL: My forecast is we're going to see the groundhog peek its head out of its hole, look around a little bit, then he's going to come out, scamper over to this general area, look at the crowd for a second, make a little burping noise and run back into the ( whispers to Larry ) That's it. I'm going to kill Phil looks at his watch.
RITA: ( whispers to Larry ) That's it. I'm going to kill Phil looks at his watch.
PHIL: O k ay ? And here we go Phil points to the hole and Larry zooms in. The groundhog sticks his head out, looks left, looks right, steps out of the hole, and runs away from the press pool, directly over to Larry's camera. As he stands there, his body casts a long shadow. The groundhog looks right into the camera, lets out a squeak, and runs back into the hole. Rita and Larry are completely amazed as the crowd cheers the brief appearance of the groundhog. Larry pans back to Phil. Phil just stands there speechless, staring at the groundhog ( HISSES ) Buster Greene, the Groundhog club official, walks onto the mound and hushes the crowd, exactly as before.
RITA: ( HISSES ) Buster Greene, the Groundhog club official, walks onto the mound and hushes the crowd, exactly as before.
BUSTER: He came out, and he saw his shadow. Sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but it looks like it's going to be a long winter. Again the crowd lets out a good-natured "Awwwwww" in Larry pans back to Phil just in time to see him walking away in a fog, without signing off. Then he pans back to Rita.
RITA: ( at a loss ) For Channel 9 News, this is Rita Hanson in Punxsutawney. She holds for a moment then makes the cut sign, drawing her finger across her throat.
PHIL: ( on the phone ) I know there's a blizzard, but I have to get a call through to my doctor in Pittsburgh. It's a medical emergency. . . .No, don't give me the Punxsutawney Fire Department. When do you think the long distance lines will be working again?. . . But what if we don't have a tomorrow? We didn't have one today, my friend. He hangs up and shakes his head which is now really starting to ache, then he pops a handful of Tylenol, lies down and pulls the covers up over his head. A moment later, he sits up, takes a pencil from the nightstand, breaks it in half and puts the pieces back on the nightstand. Then he lies back down and retreats back under the covers.
DEEJAY: Okay, campers, rise and shine, and don't forget your booties because it's COOOLD out there It's cold out there everyday. What is this Miami Beach? Phil rushes out of the room.
SIDEKICK: It's cold out there everyday. What is this Miami Beach? Phil rushes out of the room.
MRS. LANCASTER: Painting something, Mr. Connors?
PHIL: I ' m conducting an experiment.
PHIL: ( with forced good
HUMOR ): . . . S o according to Mr. Groundhog I guess we can expect six more weeks of winter. It's not very scientific, but it sure is fun. Hey, wait a second. If he's right, I could be out of a job! ( mock laugh ) For Channel 9 News, this is Phil Connors in Punxsutawney . He holds until Larry stops tape, then approaches Rita.
PHIL: How was that?
RITA: ( PLEASED ) It was good. A little smarmy for my taste, but I guess that's what Could I talk to you about a matter that is not work related?
PHIL: Could I talk to you about a matter that is not work related?
RITA: You never talk about work.
PHIL: Do you know what I did last Do I want to know?
RITA: Do I want to know?
PHIL: I destroyed my hotel room.
RITA: You whatl This is not some kind of rock and roll tour. We don't have the budget for that
PHIL: No, it's okay. This morning it was all right again. That's what I have to talk to you about.
RITA: Phil, what are you doing?
RITA: ( to waiter ) Could I have some coffee, please? The waiter pours her a cup.
WAITER: ( EXITING ) I'll be back to take your order.
RITA: ( to Phil ) Okay, so tell me. How'd you know where to put the camera?
PHIL: Because I've done it before.
RITA: I know, but the groundhog doesn't do exactly the same thing every year, does he?
PHIL: I ' m not talking about last year. I ' m talking about today. I lived it before.
RITA: You're having deja vu?
PHIL: Big time. Rita, I know it's nuts but I keep reliving the same day o ve r and over Groundhog Day today. This is the third time.
RITA: ( completely skeptical ) Uh-huh. I'm waiting for the No, really. It's like today never happened. I shaved my head last night, today its all grown back. I could probably cut off my limbs, one by one, and - pop! They'd grow back. Just like a starfish. I probably don't even have to floss?
PHIL: No, really. It's like today never happened. I shaved my head last night, today its all grown back. I could probably cut off my limbs, one by one, and - pop! They'd grow back. Just like a starfish. I probably don't even have to floss?
RITA: I'm wracking my brain, but I can't even begin to imagine why you'd make up something like 'Cause I'm not making it up. I'm asking for your help. Rita looks at him for a long moment.
PHIL: 'Cause I'm not making it up. I'm asking for your help. Rita looks at him for a long moment.
RITA: Okay, I'll bite. What do you want me to do?
PHIL: The truth? I'd 1ike you to spend the next 24 hours with me and don't leave my side for a second.
RITA: I see. You know, Phil, you can charm all the little P.A.'s at the station, all the secretaries, and even some of the weekend a nchors, but not me not in a thousand years.
PHIL: Wa it a second
RITA: Not if I was dying and your breath was the only cure; not if having your child was the only way to preserve the human race. Just get it out of your head because it is NOT GOING TO
HAPPEN!: So much for the truth. Larry pokes his head in the doorway, looks around, spots Rita and makes his way over to their table.
PHIL: So much for the truth. Larry pokes his head in the doorway, looks around, spots Rita and makes his way over to their table.
LARRY: ( to Rita ) You ready? We better get going if we're going to stay ahead of the weather.
RITA: Yeah, , I ' m . ready, Larry.
INSERT: X-rays of Phil's skull are slapped up onto a light box.
NEUROLOGIST: No spots, no tumors, no lesions, no clots, no aneurisms. Everything looks fine and dandy to me, Mr. Connors. Have you considered psychiatric help?
PSYCHOLOGIST: ( not too confident ) That's kind of an unusual problem, Mr. Connors. Most of my work is with couples and Phil is lying on a couch. His head is completely shaved.
PHIL: Yeah, but you're still a psychologist. You must have had some course in school that covered this kind of thing.
PSYCHOLOGIST: Sort of, I guess. Abnormal So based on that what would you ( HESITANT ) I ' d say that maybe you're I don't know a little delusional.
PHIL: So based on that what would you ( HESITANT ) I ' d say that maybe you're I don't know a little delusional.
PSYCHOLOGIST: ( HESITANT ) I ' d say that maybe you're I don't know a little delusional.
PHIL: You're saying this thing is not really happening to me?
PSYCHOLOGIST: Then how do I know this conversation is really happening?
PHIL: Then how do I know this conversation is really happening?
PSYCHOLOGIST: I guess you don't.
PHIL: Then forget about me paying you. A discreet little alarm sounds.
PSYCHOLOGIST: ( RELIEVED ) I'm afraid that's all the time we have, Mr. Connors.
PHIL: Wait! Are you saying I'm crazy?
PSYCHOLOGIST: ( humoring him ) Not necessarily. If it concerns you we should schedule our next session as soon as possible. How's tomorrow for you? Phil glowers at him.
SCIENTIST: ( AUTHORITATIVELY ) Now if the moon exerts a gravitational pull strong enough to cause the tides, .then it may be theoretically possible for a Black Hole or a Singularity of sufficient magnitude to actually bend time enough to cause it to fold back ,on itself.
PHIL: You think that's a realistic A paper airplane sails past his head, accompanied by a noisy outburst of juvenile laughter. We pull back to REVEAL:
SCIENTIST: ( STERNLY ) All right! I think someone may just need a little visit to the Assistant Principal's office! Get back in your seats. The bell has not rung yet. The kids sit back down, but keep up their noisy chatter.
SCIENTIST: ( to Phil ) Well, I ' m speaking purely CUT TO: INT. SCHOOL CORRIDOR - LATER Phil is walking toward the exit when he passes a first grade classroom. The door is open and the TEACHER is discussing a story with the class.
TEACH ER: So the princess picked up the frog and kissed him. Phil stops outside the door to listen.
TEACHER: Now who can tell me what happened when the princess kissed the LITTLE BOY Her lips got slimed! The whole class erupts in giggles and shrieks.
LITTLE BOY: Her lips got slimed! The whole class erupts in giggles and shrieks.
T EACHER: Okay, come on now. What happened when she kissed the frog?
LITTLE GIRL: The princess kissed the frog and the spell got broke and he turned into a handsome prince and they got married and lived happily ever after.
TEACHER: That's right.
PHIL: Gus, what would you do if there was no tomorrow?
GUS: You mean like if the world was gonna end?
PHIL: No, I mean like if it was never going to end. If everyday was the same and you were stuck here and you couldn't get out and nothing you did mattered?
GUS: You're right. Everyday is the same, I can't get out of here and nothin' I do matters.
V RALPH: No, he's askin1 you a question, ya idiot.
GUS: What was the question?
RALPH: What if nothing mattered?! Jeez, I know what I'd do. I ' d j ust spend all my time drivin' fast, gettin1 loaded and gettin' laid. That's it.
PHIL: That's it. It just doesn't get any better than this, does it? Good friends, good conversation and quality brew. Drink up, They salute each other and drink.
RALPH: ( fumbling with his
CARKEYS ): Where you stayin', Phil? We'll drop you off.
PHIL: Hey, friends don't let friends drive drunk. Give me your keys.
RALPH: Thanks , man .
PHIL: It's nothing. Get in. They all pile into the front seat with Phil at the wheel.
PHIL: ( starting the ear ) Ralph and Gus give him the thumbs up sign and start digging around in the seat cracks for their seatbelts. Suddenly, Phil floors the accelerator and peels away, sideswiping a parked car as he screeches around the corner.
PHIL: This is great, Ralph!
RALPH: Oh, hey, take a left! Phil passes the intersection.
RALPH: You missed it!
PHIL: No problem
PHIL: So many rules
RALPH: You can say that again.
PHIL: "Don't do this"
POLICE CAR: It comes screaming around a corner in hot pursuit of the Buick
PHIL: No more rules!
RALPH: No more rules!
RALPH: ( looking back ) That's two!
PHIL: Having a good time?
RALPH: I'm having a great time! Phil speeds up to a hundred miles and hour. Gus is looking even worse from the liquor and the motion of the car.
GUS: Hey, uh
PHIL: Yeah, Phil like the groundhog.
GUS: Yeah, Phil like the groundhog.
PHIL: Hey, Phil? How're we going to get out of this?
GUS: Hey, Phil? How're we going to get out of this?
PHIL: ( CALMLY ) Gus, you're just going to have to trust me on this one. He tromps the gas pedal to the floor. Gus's eyes go wide with The police dive out of the way.
DEEJAY: Okay, campers, rise and shine, and don't forget your booties because it's COOOLD out there Phil talks out loud along with them.
MRS. LANCASTER: W o u l d you Phil interrupts, answering all her questions before she even asks them.
PHIL: ( URGENTLY ) Yes, I would like some coffee; the weather is going to be cold and overcast with blizzard conditions moving in later today; and yes, I will be staying an extra day.
MRS. LANCASTER: ( BAFFLED ) Why thank you.
PHIL: Mrs. Lancaster, has anyone been around here looking for me this morning? Maybe a state official, blue coat, hat, gun, nightstick, badge, driving a late-model Ford br Chevy, black and white with bub ble lights on top
MRS. LANCASTER: ( SHOCKED ) No, no one like that I .don't Will they be?
PHIL: ( greatly relieved ) Apparently not. Phil gooses her, grabs a sweet roll, and heads for the door, starting to believe now that he can truly do anything he wants CUT TO: EXT. BOARDING HOUSE - DAWN Phil stops on the steps, puts on his coat and gloves and again joins the traffic heading toward Gobbler's Knob.
NED: Phil! Phil Connors!
PHIL: Ned! Ned Ryerson! Ned the Head! Before Ned can say another word, Phil SLUGS HIM. Ned goes down, Phil puts his glove back on and keeps walking. Phil deftly avoids the slushy pothole he stepped in before. A PEDESTRIAN walking behind him steps right into it.
PHIL: You here to see the groundhog? She gives him a look. It's obvious she's never seen him Can you think of another reason anybody'd be out here at dawn on a freezing day?
NANCY: Can you think of another reason anybody'd be out here at dawn on a freezing day?
PHIL: What's your name?
NANCY: Nancy Taylor. And you are
PHIL: Where'd you go to high school?
NANCY: What is this?
PHIL: ( PLAYFUL ) High school? She really doesn't know what to make of Phil but she decides to play along.
NANCY: Lincoln High school. In Pittsburgh. Who are you?
PHIL: Who was your twelfth grade English teacher?
NANCY: Are you kidding?
PHIL: I'm waiting.
NANCY: .Mrs. Walsh.
PHIL: Walsh. Nancy, Lincoln, Walsh.
NANCY: Is this some kind of come-on?
PHIL: I'm not really sure. We'll have to see. Phil walks off and joins Rita at their camera position.
RITA: Is this some new fad diet? Don't you worry about cholesterol? Phil scrapes a plate and takes a final bite of a chocolate I don't worry about anything What makes you so special? Everybody worries about That's exactly what makes me so He takes a big bite of cake. Rita shakes her head.
PHIL: I don't worry about anything What makes you so special? Everybody worries about That's exactly what makes me so He takes a big bite of cake. Rita shakes her head.
RITA: What makes you so special? Everybody worries about That's exactly what makes me so He takes a big bite of cake. Rita shakes her head.
PHIL: That's exactly what makes me so He takes a big bite of cake. Rita shakes her head.
PHIL: ( with his mouth full ) "The wretch, concentered all in self, Living, shall forfeit fair And doubly dying, shall go down to the vile dust from whence he sprung, Unwept, unhonored, and unsung." Sir Walter Scott.
RITA: "The wretch, concentered all in self, Living, shall forfeit fair And doubly dying, shall go down to the vile dust from whence he sprung, Unwept, unhonored, and unsung." Sir Walter Scott.
PHIL: ( stares at her for a long moment ) "There was a young man from Na n t uc k e t "
RITA: That's really funny. When are you going to grow up, Phil?
PHIL: At this rate never. ( he pulls out a pack of
CIGARETTES ): Okay if I smoke? Rita shrugs. Phil lights up a cigarette.
RITA: You really do have a death wish, don't you?
PHIL: Just the opposite, Rita. I have a life wish. I'm just trying to enjoy it. Taking pleasure in the little things. Don't you ever just want to cut loose and go I wouldn't even know what it means to go wild.
RITA: I wouldn't even know what it means to go wild.
PHIL: Yeah, well, that's where I come in. Going wild is one of my specialties. Last night I got completely loaded and drove head- on into a police car.
RITA: ( DISBELIEVING ) Oh, really? You look pretty good this morning.
PHIL: That's my point. I know you won't believe me, but we could do anything we want today and it wouldn't matter one bit. Absolutely no consequences. Complete and total freedom.
RITA: And how. . , do we manage that?
PHIL: You leave that to me. Why don't you send Larry back and hang out with me for the rest of the day? You never make it through that blizzard anyway. Larry enters the diner and spots them.
RITA: I'll take my chances with the -weather. But you have a good Don't worry. I plan to.
PHIL: Don't worry. I plan to.
PHIL: Nancy turns and looks at him quizzically.
PHIL: Nancy, right?
NANCY: I'm sorry, I
PHIL: Nancy Taylor? Lincoln High? I sat next to you in Mrs. Walsh's English class.
NANCY: T h at
PHIL: Phil Connors.
NANCY: is amazing!
PHIL: You don't remember me, do you?
NANCY: I don't sure, I think
PHIL: We used to shoot spit balls
NANCY: Yeah, oh, God
PHIL: I even asked you to the prom.
NANCY: Phil Connors.
PHIL: How ARE you?!
NANCY: How ARE you?!
PHIL: I ' m great. Wow, you look terrific. Hey, listen, I gotta d o this report
NANCY: You're a reporter?
PHIL: Weatherman. Channel 9, Right, I should've known
NANCY: Right, I should've known
PHIL: But maybe after we could
NANCY: Yeah, yeah, I ' d like that
WOMAN: ( MOANS ) Oh, Phil.
PHIL: Oh , Rita . The woman suddenly freezes. There is a moment of silence, then she snaps on the light. It's Nancy, not Rita. Phil is as surprised as she is by his slip of the tongue.
NANCY: ( COLD ) Who's Rita?
PHIL: ( CAUGHT ) No one. It's just something I say when I make love. You know "Orita", "Orighta" it's like "Oh, baby" or something.
NANCY: ( not entirely
CONVINCED ): ( corrects her ) Nancy laughs uncertainly. Phil switches off the light, thinking now about Rita.
PHIL: ( corrects her ) Nancy laughs uncertainly. Phil switches off the light, thinking now about Rita.
THEIR POV: Phil is standing at the bookcase, wearing only pajamas, absently munching on a Danish as he reads from one of the Mrs. Lancaster approaches him.
MRS. LANCASTER: Isn't it a wonderful collection?
PHIL: ( not looking up ) Yes, it is. You don't usually find this many trashy novels in one place.
MRS. LANCASTER: You can take a book up to your room if you like.
PHIL: No, thank you. I've actually read them all. I was just rereading some of the dirty He finishes and puts the book back on the shelf.
MRS. LANCASTER: ( WORRIED ) How long will you be staying with us, Mr. Connors?
PHIL: Indefinitely. I've already been here for 211 days.
MRS. LANCASTER: ( humoring him ) Really? That's quite a long time, isn't it. I hope you're finding things to do in our little town.
PHIL: ( CASUALLY ) Yes, well, I'm getting a little tired of casual sex so today I thought I'd rob a bank and buy myself a really expensive car.
PHIL: ( SHOUTS ) All right, freeze!! Drop your guns J! The guards stand there frozen with terror.
PHIL: You guys ever been held up ( they shake their
HEADS ): It's kind of exciting, isn't it?
FIRST GUARD: ( FRIGHTENED ) I guess so. Something to tell the kids about.
PHIL: Yeah. By the way, I'm Phil. He raises the mask and shows his face.
FIRST GUARD: S E C O N D GUARD ( shaking their hands ) Herman and Felix. Okay. Take it easy, boys. And thanks. The frightened guards watch as Phil makes off with two large satchels of cash.
PHIL: ( shaking their hands ) Herman and Felix. Okay. Take it easy, boys. And thanks. The frightened guards watch as Phil makes off with two large satchels of cash.
SALESMAN: A real beauty, huh. We picked it u p at a
PHIL: I'll take it. How much?
SALESMAN: Well, the sticker says $62,999 bu t if you want
PHIL: I'll tell you what. I'll give you $70,000 if you just knock off the car salesman stuff and let me get out of here with my car. The Salesman gawks as Phil opens his briefcase and starts counting out stacks of bills.
LARAINE: ( very self-conscious ) I thought we were going to a costume party.
PHIL: Yeah, we are, we are. But first I have this movie theater fantasy I want to talk to you about. He escorts her into the theater.
I: CUT TO: INT. PHIL'S ROOM - NIGHT It looks like ;outtakes from Fellini's "Satyricon." Heavy metal is blaring from the radio, as several unsavory looking men and women are partying down, a few already passed out, sleeping off whatever hit them. Someone is knocking loudly on the door, shouting complaints about the music. A beer bottle smashes against the door. Phil is sitting up on the bed with Angie. He has his arm around her shoulder and a fifth of Wild Turkey in his hand.
PHIL: ( more to himself than to Angie ) Yeah, but eventually you' d just get tired of screwing around and then you'd want a real relationship, wouldn't you?
ANGIE: I don't know. A big German Shepherd tries to jump up on the bed with them.
PHIL: Get down, Brunoi
ANGIE: I guess so. The dog jumps up again.
PHIL: Down , Bruno ! ( still musing ) It's tough to find a relationship like that, especially if your time is kind of limited. But you still have to try, don't you? ( the dog again ) Bruno! I told you! Off the bed! Phil looks over at Angle who's passed out with her mouth open
PHIL: There ' s got to be more to it than CUT TO : EXT. A SIDE STREET - THE NEXT MORNING Rita is in the news van reviewing the tape of Phil's report Phil hovers at the open side door.
RITA: You look good. I mean, it came o ut all right. How'd you know where to put the camera?
PHIL: Psychic. So did you have a nice ( GUARDED ) I just had a sandwich, watched some TV and went to bed.
RITA: ( GUARDED ) I just had a sandwich, watched some TV and went to bed.
PHIL: I got my whole body tattooed and part ied all night with some nymphomaniac biker chicks.
RITA: ( SKEPTICAL ) Sounds wholesome. Were those the new 24-hour disappearing tattoos or can I see them?
PHIL: No, they're gone. Rita, if you only had one day to live, what would you do with it?
RITA: I don't know, Phil. What are you dying of?
PHIL: No, I mean like what if the entire world was about to I ' d just want to know where to p ut the camera. What are you looking for, Phil a date for the weekend? She starts walking toward the center of town. Phil sticks right with her.
RITA: I ' d just want to know where to p ut the camera. What are you looking for, Phil a date for the weekend? She starts walking toward the center of town. Phil sticks right with her.
PHIL: No, I just want to know you better. What do you like, what do you want, what do you think about, what kind of men are you interested in, what do you do for ( she stops ) Is this real or are you just going to make me feel like a I'm just trying to talk to you like a normal person. Isn't this how normal people talk?
RITA: ( she stops ) Is this real or are you just going to make me feel like a I'm just trying to talk to you like a normal person. Isn't this how normal people talk?
PHIL: I'm just trying to talk to you like a normal person. Isn't this how normal people talk?
RITA: Okay, so talk to me. C'mon, I'll buy you a cup of coffee.
PHIL: Okay, so talk to me. C'mon, I'll buy you a cup of coffee.
RITA: I guess I want what everybody wants you know, career, love, marriage, children. So far I don't have any of it.
PHIL: You have a career.
RITA: I have a job. Doing stories on the Punxsutawney groundhog is not my ultimate goal. No offense.
PHIL: How about the other stuff? You seeing anybody?
RITA: This is getting too personal. I don't think I ' m ready to discuss these things with you. What about you? What do you want?
PHIL: What I really want is someone like you.
RITA: O h , please
PHIL: Why not?
RITA: Phil, you know, you have so much talent and ability. If you'd just drop the attitude and act like a decent human being, then maybe I ' d ( she hesitates )
PHIL: You'd what?
RITA: I don't know what.
PHIL: Then maybe you'd like me? She stares hard at him.
RITA: I don't know. It's sort of like the way I feel about UFO's. I'd have to see it to believe it. Larry pokes his head in the doorway, looks around, spots Rita and makes his way over to their table.
LARRY: ( to Rita ) You ready? We better get going if we're going to stay ahead of the weather.
RITA: Yeah, I'll be right out, Larry. Larry scowls at Phil and exits.
PHIL: ( to Rita ) Why don't you stay for a while? The road's going to be closed anyway. Do you really want to be stuck in the van with Larry for three hours?
RITA: I've got to get back. I'll see you later. Phil watches Rita exit.
PHIL'S POV: Rita gets in the news van and drives off with Larry. Phil stares out the window, more" determined than ever to win her over.
PHIL: Well, you heard it right from the groundhog's mouth. Bundle up good, 'cause it's going to be a long winter at least in Punxsutawney. Reporting for Channel 9, this is Phil Connors. Larry stops tape.
RITA: That was great. How did you know
THE: ( PREOCCUPIED ) I have to go now. There's something I have to do.
PHIL: ( PREOCCUPIED ) I have to go now. There's something I have to do.
PHIL: ( acting surprised ) Oh, hi, Rita. You still here?
RITA: ( GLUM ) The van won't start. Larry's working on it.
PHIL: ( INNOCENT ) Wouldn't you know it. Buy you a ( to the bartender ) Jack Daniels.
RITA: ( to the bartender ) Jack Daniels.
PHIL: ( to the bartender ) Jack Daniels.
BARTENDER: For you, miss?
RITA: Tequila,with lime. Gold, if you've got it. Phil nods to himself.
PHIL: ( acting surprised ) Oh, hi, Rita. You still here?
PHIL: Wouldn't you know it. Buy you a ( to the bartender ) Tequila with lime, gold if you've got it. Rita looks at Phil, surprised.
RITA: ( to the bartender ) Tequila with lime, gold if you've got it. Rita looks at Phil, surprised.
PHIL: ( to the bartender ) Tequila with lime, gold if you've got it. Rita looks at Phil, surprised.
BARTENDER: For you miss?
RITA: Same for me, please. The BARTENDER pours.
PHIL: ( to Rita ) What should we toast to?
RITA: Your call.
PHIL: To the groundhog! Rita stares for a moment.
RITA: I always drink to world peace.
BARTENDER: Take your order?
PHIL: Tequila with lime, gold if you've got it. Rita looks at Phil.
, BARTENDER: For you, miss?
RITA: Same for me, please. The BARTENDER pours. Phil lifts his glass.
PHIL: To world peace. Rita smiles, reevaluating him.
RITA: To world peace. They clink glasses.
PHIL: You like your job?
RITA: It's okay. I think it could be really challenging. Of course it's about a million miles from where I started out in college.
PHIL: You weren't in broadcasting?
RITA: At Bryn Mawr? No, uh-uh. "Believe it or not, I studied Nineteenth Century French Poetry.
PHIL: ( laughs good-naturedly ) Really? What a waste of time. Rita looks offended. Phil knows he made a mistake.
PHIL: You weren't in broadcasting?
RITA: At Bryn Mawr? No, uh-uh. Believe it or not, I studied Nineteenth Century French Poetry. Phil leans in closer to her.
PHIL: La fille qui j'aimera Sera comme bon vin Qui se bonifiera Un peut chaque matin. Rita smiles, entranced.
RITA: This is terrific.
PHIL: Best fudge in town.
RITA: How do you know so much about I like small towns. I think they engender real community more than big cities.
PHIL: I like small towns. I think they engender real community more than big cities.
RITA: That is so true! I've always thought that, too.
PHIL: No kidding. Here try the white Oh, yuk, don't make me sick.
RITA: Oh, yuk, don't make me sick.
PHIL: ( making mental note ) No white chocolate.
RITA: There's something so familiar about this. Do you ever have deja vu? Phil smiles. Then Larry enters.
LARRY: ( irate, to Rita ) I don't believe it. Someone bought every distributor cap in this town. We're going to be stuck here all night1 Over Phil's sympathetic look we hear the song, "I Can't Get Started With You".
PHIL: I ' m just amazed. And I'm not easily amazed.
RITA: I ' m just amazed. And I'm not easily amazed.
PHIL: About what?
RITA: How you can start a day with one kind of expectation and end up so completely different.
PHIL: Do you like how this day is turning out?
RITA: Yes. I like it very much. They stop dn front of Phil's hotel. She turns to him.
RITA: You could never have planned a day like this, but it couldn't have been more perfect.
PHIL: You're wrong. I've been planning this day for weeks. Rita ignores the remark and hugs him. Phil tries to kiss her but she gently puts her fingers to his lips, stopping him. \ They enter the bed and breakfast inn.
RITA: Thanks. See you tomorrow.
PHIL: Tomorrow? Wait, aren't you going to come up to my room for a ( very reluctant ) I don't know, Phil
RITA: ( very reluctant ) I don't know, Phil
PHIL: Noreason to end a perfect day.
RITA: ( DECIDING ) Well we better not.
PHIL: No, you should. The, uh, the poetry! I've got some books, Rimbaud, Beaudelaire, we could l ig ht a fire
RITA: Thanks, but
PHIL: ( seeing it all slip
AWAY ): Please come, Rita. It'll be
RITA: ( DEFINITE ) Phil, I'm tired. We can be together tomorrow.
PHIL: ( getting desperate ) But there is no tomorrow for me!
RITA: ( ADAMANT ) Let's not ruin it, Phil. There's no way I ' m sleeping with you Why not? Rita, I love you!
PHIL: Why not? Rita, I love you!
RITA: You don't even know me!
PHIL: ( grabs her hand ) Please! You have to! Rita shakes loose from his grasp.
RITA: What's wrong with you! There is a long moment of silent tension, then all her old doubts about Phil come rushing back.
RITA: ( shaking her head ) Oh, no. I can't believe I fell for it. This whole day was just one long set-up. And I ate fudge. Yucchh! I hate fudge.
PHIL: No, it was real. I love you.
RITA: Stop saying that! Do you really expect me to trust you? The whole secretarial pool is a Phil Connors recovery group.
PHIL: But I can change! I really can Rita slaps him hard on the cheek.
RITA: That's for making me care about She turns and stomps off, leaving Phil standing there hurting.
PHIL: ( DULLY ) Okay, campers, rise and shine, and don't forget your booties because it's cooooold out there Phil continues the radio report at his own pace, obviously It's cold out there everyday. What is this Miami Beach? Haw. Not hardly. And you can expect hazardous travel later today with that, you know, blizzard thing.
PHIL: It's cold out there everyday. What is this Miami Beach? Haw. Not hardly. And you can expect hazardous travel later today with that, you know, blizzard thing.
PHIL: Hi, Nancy.
NANCY: ( PLEASANTLY ) Hi. Do I know you? Phil can't manage enough enthusiasm to pursue her yet again.
PHIL: No, I guess not. I thought you were someone else. Phil wanders over to where Rita and Larry are setting up the camera. Rita comes over to him.
RITA: Are you all right, Phil? You look terrible. Phil looks at her sadly, then turns away.
PHIL: ( VACANTLY ) I ' m fine.
FIRST HUSTLER: Who is this guy?
SECOND HUSTLER: I don't know. Hey, mister ( Phil doesn't stop
SHOOTING ): Who are you, anyway? Phil shoots, sinks a tough one.
PHIL: You don't know me? I've been playing here every day for two FIRST HUSTLER Oh, yeah? So how come I ain't seen you?
FIRST HUSTLER: Oh, yeah? So how come I ain't seen you?
PHIL: I don't know. I seen you.
SECOND HUSTLER: So what's your name?
PHIL: They call me Punxsutawney Phil.
SECOND HUSTLER: Punxsutawney Phil? Like the Yeah, like the groundhog. Phil sinks another one.
PHIL: Yeah, like the groundhog. Phil sinks another one.
PHIL: ( CYNICALLY ) This is one of the most pitiful spectacles known to civilization. With one nod from a filthy rodent best known to pest control agencies, a moribund old coal mining hamlet turns magically into the Lourdes of Pennsylvania, Mecca to thousands of people who, if they hated the winter so damned much, why don't they move to Florida, anyway?
ALEX TREBECK: ( on TV ) Nobel prize-winning co- discoverers of the DNA molecule.
CONTESTANT: ( on TV ) Who are Watson and Crick?
ALEX: ( on TV ) There is a cheering from a small group of people off-screen.
ALEX: ( on TV ) Twin brother and sister Sebastian and Olivia create confusion in this Shakespearean comedy.
PHIL: What is "Twelfth Night."
CONTESTANT: ( on TV ) What is "Twelfth Night?"
ALEX: ( on TV ) More cheering from the small group.
CONTESTANT: ( on TV ) I'll take New Jersey for eight hundred, Alex.
ALEX: ( on TV ) And the answer is an audio daily double.
PHIL: Count Basie.
PHIL: Two thousand six hundred and s e ve n ty -o n e ( takes another step ) two thousand six hundred and se v en t y -t w o ( another step ) two thousand six hundred and A woman passes walking her dog.
PHIL: Hey, pick up after your dog!
DOG WALKER: He hasn't done anything.
PHIL: He's going to!
IPHIL: Two thousand six hundred and seventy-four, two thousand six hundred and seventy-five, two
THOUSAND': Five million eight hundred
JOEY: Five million eight hundred
PHIL: S i x hundred
PHIL: Two thousand, four hundred
COP: You got a problem, buddy?
PHIL: ( out of control ) Yeah, I got a problem, buddy! I can't stand this place anymore! I can't stand this street and I can't stand the fourteen bars and the five banks and the one star food and the bad weather and the "quaint" little shops and most of all, I can't stand anything ANYTHING with a groundhog on He rips a groundhog patch off the cop's jacket sleeve.
COP: ( CALMLY ) Okay. Then let's see what we can do about getting you out of here. You got a name?
PHIL: ( eyes downcast ) Phil. Like the groundhog! Phil turns to the cop like a rabid dog, ready to strike.
COP: Phil. Like the groundhog! Phil turns to the cop like a rabid dog, ready to strike.
PHIL: Yeah, like the ( he stops as if struck ) Some big new idea has formed in his mind.
LARRY: ( turning to Rita ) The guy's nuts. He's out of his Let him finish, then I'll call the station. They turn back to watch Phil's wrap-up. Phil is completely unkempt, still wearing only pajama bottoms and his overcoat, looking even more demented.
RITA: Let him finish, then I'll call the station. They turn back to watch Phil's wrap-up. Phil is completely unkempt, still wearing only pajama bottoms and his overcoat, looking even more demented.
PHIL: ( to camera ) There is no way this winter is ever going to end as long as that groundhog keeps seeing his shadow everyday. I don't see any other way out. He's got to be stopped and I've got to stop him. For Channel 9 news, this is Phil CUT TO: EXT. GOBBLER'S KNOB - NIGHT Phil is walking around the mound, casing it out. He takes a rifle out from under his coat and sneaks up to the burrow. He pulls a smoke bomb from his pocket, lights it, and throws it into the hole, then scurries for the edge of the knob and hits the deck. He lifts his rifle and aims it. Smoke is now pouring from the mound. Lots of it. Phil waits, his trigger finger twitching. A WOMAN casually walks by, stops. She surveys the situation.
WOMAN: He ain't there. Phil doesn't move. He-doesn't care that she sees him.
WOMAN: You can wait all night, but he ain't coming out. He don't live there. They keep him in the Phil's gun droops. The woman begins to walk off, then stops.
WOMAN: Plug him once for me.
PHIL'S POV: The groundhog looks right into his sights. Philsqueezes the trigger. LOUD GUNSHOT. The glass window is still intact, not a scratch on it. The groundhog looks up playfully. Phil fires off four more rounds but, again, no results. Phil can't believe it. He charges the glass and pounds it with the rifle butt. He can't even chip it. Suddenly he is seized from behind by TWO STRONG MEN who take the rifle from him and wrestle him to floor. The librarian comes running up and looks at the groundhog.
BYSTANDER: Is he all right?
LIBRARIAN: He's just fine. That's two inches of bullet-proof glass there. You can't be too careful in this day and age.
RITA: Where were you this morning? How could you possibly miss the ( at the end of his
PHIL: ( at the end of his
ROPE ): I've come to the end of me, Rita. There's only one way out now. Just remember/we had a wonderful day together once. Phil kisses her gently on the cheek and walks off toward the back of the knob. Rita watches him, then follows at a discreet distance, very worried. In a small clearing behind the man-made groundhog burrow, Buster Greene and TWO other GROUNDHOG CLUB OFFICIALS are lifting a cage into the front seat of Buster's pickup.
B USTER: ( to the groundhog ) There you go, ol' buddy. Good job. Hey! He smiled at me. See FIRST OFFICIAL ( securing the cage ) There, little fella. The other official looks up and sees Phil walking toward them like a zombie.
FIRST OFFICIAL: ( securing the cage ) There, little fella. The other official looks up and sees Phil walking toward them like a zombie.
BUSTER: ( securing the cage ) There, little fella. The other official looks up and sees Phil walking toward them like a zombie.
OTHER OFFICIAL: Hi, there, mister. Something I can do you for? Without a word, Phil jumps quickly into the cab of the pickup and starts it up .
FIRST OFFICIAL: Hey! What 're you ! Phil drives off in Buster's truck. Rita witnesses the groundhog-napping and runs back toward the ( SHOUTS ) Buster and his aides race for another car parked nearby.
RITA: ( SHOUTS ) Buster and his aides race for another car parked nearby.
BUSTER: Jake! Call the police, and get the word out. Somebody kidnapped Phil. We're going after him. Come on, Tommy! They jump into a car, Buster guns the engine and takes off after the pickup. Rita runs up to Larry and grabs the camera on the fly.
RITA: Let's go! Phil just snatched the Larry does a slow take and starts gathering up the rest of the ( MUTTERS ) Probably some kind of gerbil deal. Pervert.
LARRY: ( MUTTERS ) Probably some kind of gerbil deal. Pervert.
PHIL: Coming to the end of the trail, Phil. Then we're going out in a blaze of glory.
BUSTER: Nobody takes my groundhog and gets away with it.
RITA: ( very upset ) What is he doing? What can he be thinking? He must1 ve just Larry squeezes into the passenger seat with the camera mounted on his shoulder .
LARRY: This oughta be good.
BUSTER: Okay! I know this road. There's no way off ' cept the way we come FIRST OFFICIAL All right! We got him now.
FIRST OFFICIAL: All right! We got him now.
PHIL: Okay, pal. It's showtime. Phil hits the gas.
RITA: PHIL! NO! EXT. LOGGER'S LEAP - CONTINUOUS The pickup bursts through a retaining fence and rockets over the edge of the cliff. The pickup seems to hang in the air for a long time, then it begins its SLOW MOTION descent, falling ever so gracefully until it impacts on the granite rock face far below. BIG EXPLOSION. BIG FIREBALL. FLAMING WRECKAGE. Then a small click, followed by "I Got You, Babe."
PHIL! NO!: EXT. LOGGER'S LEAP - CONTINUOUS The pickup bursts through a retaining fence and rockets over the edge of the cliff. The pickup seems to hang in the air for a long time, then it begins its SLOW MOTION descent, falling ever so gracefully until it impacts on the granite rock face far below. BIG EXPLOSION. BIG FIREBALL. FLAMING WRECKAGE. Then a small click, followed by "I Got You, Babe."
PHIL: He slowly opens his eyes and blinks. He looks around and realizes he's back in his room at the bed and breakfast.
PHIL: Ah, nuts! Phil throws off the covers and hurls himself out of bed.
REVEAL: Mrs. Lancaster is watching TV in the parlor of the hotel. In the corridor behind her, Phil walks by, dressed in a robe, carrying an electric toaster and a towel, heading for the A few moments pass. We hear the zap of an electrocution, the lights and TV flicker and dim for a moment, then come back on again.
RITA: I ' m sorry. What was that again?
PHIL: I'm a god.
RITA: You're God?
PHIL: No, I'm A god. Not THE God at least I don't think I am.
RITA: That's reassuring. For a mintute there I thought you might be No, it's true. It's the only possible explanation. I'm a supernatural being.
PHIL: No, it's true. It's the only possible explanation. I'm a supernatural being.
RITA: Because you survived a car wreck?
WAITER: Are you ready to order?
PHIL: ( to Rita, ignoring the
WAITER ): Not just the car wreck! I didn't just blow up yesterday, you know. I've been run over, drowned, crushed, stabbed, shot, electrocuted, poisoned, frozen, burn ed, and asphyxiated
RITA: The waiter looks at him like he's nuts.
PHIL: but I always wake up the next day without a scratch, without even a headache. I'm telling you, I ' m immortal.
WAITER: The special today is blueberry Why are you telling me this?
RITA: Why are you telling me this?
WAITER: ( SHRUGS ) Because some people like blueberry waffles.
RITA: ( to the waiter ) No t you him.
PHIL: Because I want you to believe in You're not a god, Phil. Take my word for it. This is twelve years of Catholic school talking.
RITA: You're not a god, Phil. Take my word for it. This is twelve years of Catholic school talking.
WAITER: I could come back if you're not How do you know I'm not a god?
PHIL: How do you know I'm not a god?
RITA: How do you know?
PHIL: How do you know?
RITA: Because it's not possible.
WAITER: I'll come back. The /waiter turns to leave.
PHIL: Hey, Billy! The waiter turns back.
PHIL: This is Bill. He's been a waiter for three years because he left Penn State and had to find work. He likes the town, he paints toy soldiers, and he's gay.
WAITER: I am notl Phil grabs an astonished Rita and pulls her over to the next What are you doing?
RITA: What are you doing?
PHIL: This is Doris Kleiser and her fiance Fred.
DORIS: Do I know you?
PHIL: They're supposed to get married tonight but Doris is having second thoughts.
FRED: Doris touces her engagement ring, dumbfounded. Rita is a little embarrassed.
RITA: Lovely ring.
DORIS: Phil drags Rita to the counter.
PHIL: This is Ralph. Say "Hi," Rita. Rita flashes a quick smile.
RALPH: Don't believe I've had the
PHIL: Ralph hates his life here and wants to drive around town smashing into policemen.
RALPH: Well, who don't?
RITA: This is some kind of trick.
PHIL: Yes, it's a trick. But maybe the real God cheats, too. Maybe God isn't omnipotent he's just had a lot of practice.
RITA: How about that guy?
PHIL: Tom. Worked in the coal mine til they shut it down.
RITA: PHIL ' Nancy. Went to Lincoln High School in Pittsburgh. Takes herself out to lunch once a week. Rita is getting very bewildered. From their reactions she can see that Phil is right about each and every one of them.
PHIL ': Nancy. Went to Lincoln High School in Pittsburgh. Takes herself out to lunch once a week. Rita is getting very bewildered. From their reactions she can see that Phil is right about each and every one of them.
RITA: How do you know these people!
PHIL: I told you the truth. In five seconds there's going to be a grease fire in the kitchen. Five, four
RITA: This is nuts.
PHIL: three, two, one. Phil points to the kitchen as smoke starts pouring from the service window. Everyone in the diner is now staring at them
RITA: ( trying to puzzle it
OUT ): Okay, enough. Let's just sit down and think for a second. ( they sit ) What do you know about me, Phil? Do you know me, too? Phil takes a long pause.
PHIL: I know all about you, Rita. I know you like producing, but hope for better than Channel 9, Everyone knows that.
RITA: Everyone knows that.
PHIL: You like boats but not the ocean. There's a lake you go to in the summer with your family, up in the mountains, with an old wooden dock and a boathouse with boards missing in the roof, and a place you used to crawl underneath to be alone, and at night you'd look up and see the stars. You're a sucker for Rocky Road, Marlon Brando, and French poetry. You're wonderfully generous; you're kind to strangers, and children; and when you stand in the snow, you look like an angel.
RITA: How are you doing this?
PHIL: I told you! I wake up every day right here, right in Punxsutawney, and it's always February second and I can't turn it off. If you still don't bel iev e me, listen
RITA: B u t , Phil
PHIL: Listen! In ten seconds Larry is going to walk through that door and take you away from me.
RITA: But you can't let him. Please believe me. You've got to believe me.
PHIL: But you can't let him. Please believe me. You've got to believe me.
RITA: I don't Larry pokes his head in the doorway, looks around and spots As Rita turns around to see Larry, Phil grabs a pen and pad from a passing waitress and quickly writes something down as Larry makes his way to their table. Phil finishes writing.
PHIL: As Rita turns around to see Larry, Phil grabs a pen and pad from a passing waitress and quickly writes something down as Larry makes his way to their table. Phil finishes writing.
LARRY: ( to Rita ) You ready? We better get going if we're going to stay ahead of the weather. Phil hands the paper to Rita. She reads it.
RITA: ( READING ) " . . . stay ahead of the weather. " Larry looks at the paper.
LARRY: What ' s that? Rita looks at Phil with new understanding and empathy.
PHIL: Afer I got over the shock, it was kind of fun for the first year or two. I had anything I wanted. Except you, of course.
RITA: How did this start?
PHIL: I don't know. I just woke up. Just like always. NED RY-ERSON approaches.
NED: Hey, Phil! Phil Connors 1
PHIL: Rita, this is Ned Ryerson. He's an asshole.
NED: He remembers me! Phil and Rita keep walking. Rita looks back at Ned, perplexed
PHIL: Trust me on that one.
RITA: This is great.
PHIL: No, it isn't. You hate fudge.
. RITA: Just how well do we know each I told you. I know everybody. Rita stops walking.
PHIL: I told you. I know everybody. Rita stops walking.
RITA: Did we ever.you know?
PHIL: ( TEASING ) Did we ever! You were an animal.
RITA: Come on.
PHIL: You're European trained, aren't Phil continues walking.
RITA: ( BLUSHING ) Phil! It's not funny. She catches up to him. Phil turns to her.
PHIL: You weren't interested.
RITA: ( RELIEVED ) She begins walking again.
RITA: Not that it would've been so I understand.
PHIL: I understand.
RITA: I just had to know whether to smack you or not.
PHIL: You did.
RITA: CUT TO: EXT. PARK - DAY Phil and Rita are sitting on a park bench.
PHIL: So do you believe any of this?
RITA: I don't know. I don't know how else you could know so much. Maybe it is really happening.
PHIL: I used to try to stay up all night sometimes. I thought if I could stay conscious I could figure out what was going on, or at least hang onto something from the day before. But I gave up on that a long time ago. Rita looks at him with compassion.
RITA: It sounds so lonely.
PHIL: ( trying to shrug it
OFF ): It's not that bad. You get used to it. Rita comes to a decision.
RITA: Maybe I should spend the rest of the day with you as an objective witness. Just to see what happens. Okay?
PHIL: Yeah, sure. That'd be okay.
PHIL: It's not in the wrist so much as the fingers. Be the hat.
RITA: It would take me a year to get good at this.
PHIL: Uh-uh. Six months. Four, five hours a day.
RITA: Is this what you do with Now you know. It's like waiting for a bus that never comes . You should see me play pool and bowling, juggling, hacky sack. I can ride a unicycle. There ' s a knock on the door .
PHIL: Now you know. It's like waiting for a bus that never comes . You should see me play pool and bowling, juggling, hacky sack. I can ride a unicycle. There ' s a knock on the door .
PHIL: I'll get it! Phil jumps for the door and opens it. The PIZZA GUY is there.
PHIL: Hi, Marty. $11.75 including the delivery charge, right?
PIZZA GUY: U h hh h Phil pays him, takes the pizza and closes the door.
RITA: ( opening the pizza box ) MMMM. Pepperoni and olives. My favorite .
PHIL: Of course. I told you, I know everything .
RITA: ( taking a bite of
PIZZA ): I don ' t think I ' d want to know everything that ' s going to happen. I like to be surprised.
PHIL: That's not the worst part.
RITA: What's the worst part?
PHIL: The worst part is starting over everyday. Tomorrow you won't remember any of this. You'll go back to treating me like a complete jerk
RITA: It's not your fault. I am a No, you're not.
PHIL: It's not your fault. I am a No, you're not.
RITA: No, you're not.
PHIL: Okay, I ' m not. It really doesn't make a lot of difference. I've killed myself so many times, I don't even exist anymore. I'm just completely empty.
RITA: Or completely clean.
PHIL: If you're going to be this positive all the time I may have to rough you up a little.
RITA: Wait! Have we done this before?
PHIL: Which part?
RITA: You getting me up here, the card gam e, the pizza
PHIL: No, this is the first time.
RITA: ( EXCITED ) Well, what?
PHIL: Well, what?
RITA: Well how does it feel to be doing something completely new? Phil looks at her with tremendous affection and gratitude.
PHIL: Good. Really good. He takes a slice of pizza and starts eating with gusto.
RITA: Sometimes I wish I had a thousand lifetimes. One to be a great journalist. One to, I don't know, go back to school, study art, or auto mechanics. One just to take care of all the busywork, you know, pay the bills, get my car tuned up. One to be the wild woman of Borneo. One to be Mother Theresa. Maybe it's not a curse, Phil. It all just depends on how you look at it. Phil stares at her for a long time letting this sink in. Then he belches really loud. Rita stares at him, then burps surprisingly loud herself.
RITA: I want you to know, it's been a really nice day for me.
PHIL: Me, too.
RITA: Maybe, if it's not too boring for you, we could do it again.
PHIL: I hope so. The clock reads 11:59. Rita grabs Phil's hand. He puts his arm around her. They look into each others' eyes. Rita gives Phil a reassuring smile. She squeezes his hand. Their eyes turn to the clock. 11:;59 turns to 12:00. Rita looks up at Phil as if expecting some magical event.
RITA: You're still here!
PHIL: I know.
RITA: I thought you were supposed to disappear or I was or Not 'til six.
PHIL: Not 'til six.
RITA: You rat!
PHIL: I never said midnight
RITA: You knew I was waiting for But I never said it.
PHIL: But I never said it.
RITA: Oh, I can't believe you! ( she slugs him with a
PILLOW ): I didn't know this was going to take all night!
PHIL: Does that mean you're going?
RITA: Phil takes Rita's hand. She doesn't resist.
LATER: Rita is now sitting right next to Phil on the bed, her head resting on his shoulder. She nods off then catches herself.
RITA: I'm sorry.
PHIL: It's okay to go to sleep you know. I promise I won't touch you much.
RITA: No, it's all right. I'm not tired. What were you saying? Her eyes start to close again.
PHIL: I was saying that the cow was eventually returned to it's rightful owner.
RITA: ( drifting off ) That's right. He looks at her, sees she's truly asleep, and gently maneuvers her into a comfortable reclining position on the bed. Then he carefully puts a pillow under her head and settles down next to What I was going to say was, I think you're the kindest, sweetest, prettiest, most wonderful girl I ever met in my She starts to stir but he gently kisses her back to sleep.
PHIL: That's right. He looks at her, sees she's truly asleep, and gently maneuvers her into a comfortable reclining position on the bed. Then he carefully puts a pillow under her head and settles down next to What I was going to say was, I think you're the kindest, sweetest, prettiest, most wonderful girl I ever met in my She starts to stir but he gently kisses her back to sleep.
PHIL: What I was going to say was, I think you're the kindest, sweetest, prettiest, most wonderful girl I ever met in my She starts to stir but he gently kisses her back to sleep.
PHIL: Shhhh. That's good. ( satisfied she's still
ASLEEP ): I could never tell you this, but from the first minute I looked at you I wanted to just hold you close and be with you forever. iEverytime I -saw you around the station, I thought my heart was going to explode. I used to dream about us being together. In my dream you loved me as much as I loved you and we didn't have to say anything but I knew you understood everything. She stirs again but he kisses her until she returns to deep I know a guy like me could never deserve to have someone like you, but if I did, I swear I would love you for the rest of my life. Rita opens her eyes.
PHIL: I know a guy like me could never deserve to have someone like you, but if I did, I swear I would love you for the rest of my life. Rita opens her eyes.
RITA: ( HALF-ASLEEP ) Did you say something?
PHIL: Good-night, Rita. He kisses her gently on the forehead.
RITA: Good-night, Phil.
PHIL: She looks at him without a trace of the rapport they shared the night before.
RITA: Oh, hi, Phil.
PHIL: Thought you might like some He hands her the coffee.
RITA: Careful, it's hot. Larry? He hands Larry a cup.
PHIL: Careful, it's hot. Larry? He hands Larry a cup.
LARRY: ( surprised, mutters ) Yeah, great.
RITA: We're just setting up.
PHIL: You know, I bumped into Buster Greene, he kind of runs this thing, and he tipped me off that we might get a better shot over I mean, maybe we should go for it. What do you think?
RITA: I mean, maybe we should go for it. What do you think?
PHIL: I mean, maybe we should go for it. What do you think?
RITA: Sounds good to me. Larry?
LARRY: Sure, why not?
RITA: All right. Thanks, Phil. Good She reaches for an equipment case.
PHIL: I'll get that. Phil helps Larry carry the camera gear.
PHIL: ( to Larry ) You and I never talk, Larry. You got kids? Larry looks suspicious. Rita looks on, reevaluating Phil.
PHIL: Where would I find the Philosophy Down and to the left, 600's. Phil walks through the stacks, past the groundhog window.
LIBRARIAN: Down and to the left, 600's. Phil walks through the stacks, past the groundhog window.
MARY: I ' d like a piano lesson, please.
PHIL: I ' d like a piano lesson, please.
MARY: Oh. Okay, I ' m with a student now, but
PHIL: I'll give you a thousand dollars. Mary hesitates only a moment, then ushers Phil into the house and closes the door. A moment later the door opens and a LITTLE GIRL with an armloa of music books exits as if pushed. The door closes behind her.
CHUBBY MAN: Buon Giorno, signore.
PHIL: Buon Giorno, signore.
CHUBBY MAN: Think it ' 11 be an early Spring?
PHIL: "Winter slumbering in the open air wears on his smiling face a dream of Spring."
CHUBBY MAN: CUT TO : INT. MARY'S HOUSE - DAY Phil and Mary are sitting together at the piano. Phil is playing, poorly.
MARY: Not bad, Mr. Connors. You say this is your first lesson?
PHIL: Technically, yes. Phil plays on, definitely improving.
PHIL: In fact, the groundhog's legendary ability to predict the weather may be more than just the German folklore of the region. Higher temperatures trigger hormonal changes in the testosterone levels of male groundhogs, which may in fact wake them from hibernation and send them out to battle with other males ;for mating rights. So, the truth is they're not looking for their shadows, they're looking for groundhog Rita looks on, clearly delighted with the report.
PHIL: Groundhog Day, February second, also known as Candlemas Day or the Feast of the Purification of the Virgin Mary, the day Mary first came to the temple for ritual blessings following the birth of the infant Jesus, and celebrated since the Middle Ages by the sacramental lighting of candles. Hence the old Scottish couplet which long predates the .American groundhog tradition: "If Candlemas dawns bright and clear, there'll be two winters in the Larry whispers an aside to Rita.
LARRY: Is he making this stuff up?
RITA: ( RIVETED ) CUT TO: EXT. CEMETERY - DAY Beyond the graveyard is a work shed with various tombstones scattered about. Old TUCKER, the town stonecarver, is at work chiseling a name into a gravemarker. Behind him, Phil is chipping away at a small hunk of marble, sculpting a very lovely cherub. Rita sits on a stool eating an apple and sipping hot tea watching him with amazed interest.
PHIL: But what if the rules changed? What if none of your actions had There would still be an absolute morality. There has to be an absolute good, regardless of the Oh, is that so, Miss Plato? Then let me ask you this. Where does this "absolute good" come from? From the sky?
RITA: There would still be an absolute morality. There has to be an absolute good, regardless of the Oh, is that so, Miss Plato? Then let me ask you this. Where does this "absolute good" come from? From the sky?
PHIL: Oh, is that so, Miss Plato? Then let me ask you this. Where does this "absolute good" come from? From the sky?
RITA: I don't know. From my freshman Philosophy course, I guess. They both laugh. Then she looks at him for a long moment and Nothing. I just can't believe you're such a fine sculptor. Phil takes a bite of her apple and gets up.
PHIL: Nothing. I just can't believe you're such a fine sculptor. Phil takes a bite of her apple and gets up.
RITA: Nothing. I just can't believe you're such a fine sculptor. Phil takes a bite of her apple and gets up.
PHIL: I gotta go.
RITA: Where do you have to go in I got piano and then drums.
PHIL: I got piano and then drums.
RITA: Come on, I'll drop you off. They exit.
PHIL: Come on, I'll drop you off. They exit.
NED: Phil! Phil Connors! I thought that was you!
PHIL: Ned? Ned Ryerson! I don't believe it. I've missed you so Phil gives Ned a big hug and keeps holding on for an uncomfortably long time, actually giving Ned a hickey on the neck. Ned goes into homophobic shock.
NED: Uh, I gotta get going. Nice to see you, Phil. He hurries off.
MARY: How long have you been studying, Mr. Connors?
PHIL: One day. I'm gifted.
PHIL: Hey, mister. Hey. Come on, let's get you somewhere warm. The old bum turns to look at Phil, then closes his eyes.
PHIL: ( helps the old man to his feet ) There you go. Phil practically carries him out of the alley.
NURSE: You the one brought in the old How is he?
PHIL: How is he?
NURSE: He passed away just now. Phil pauses for a long moment.
PHIL: What'd he die of?
NURSE: ( SHRUGS ) He was just old. It was his I want to see his chart. Excuse Phil brushes past her and makes for the big double doors leading to triage.
PHIL: I want to see his chart. Excuse Phil brushes past her and makes for the big double doors leading to triage.
NURSE: Sir, you can't ( hurrying after him ) Look! Some people just die!
PHIL: Not on my watch.
PHIL: Come on . Hang on . Hang on , there . Breathe .
PHIL: .When Chekhov saw the long winter, it was a winter bleak and dark and bereft of hope; and yet, we know winter's only one more step in the cycle. And standing among the people of Punxsutawney ( Phil looks directly at
RITA ): basking in the warmth of their hearths and hearts, I couldn't imagine a better fate than a long and lustrous winter. Phil smiles. Rita smiles, too.
PHIL: For Channel 9 news, I ' m Phil There is much applause. Even Larry brushes away a tear. Phil hands the microphone to Rita.
RITA: Sorry. I'm gonna be late. Phil rushes off.
PHIL: Sorry. I'm gonna be late. Phil rushes off.
PHIL: Sorry. I'm gonna be late. Phil rushes off.
RITA: Late for what? Phil? ( To Larry ) Could you break it down and wrap out of here by yourself, Larry?
LARRY: Sure .
RITA: Thanks .
PHIL: Hey! Did you forget to look both ways? You didn't even look one My doggie was cold.
MARIE: My doggie was cold.
PHIL: Yeah, well, my doggies are freezing, but I ' m still gonna watch out for cars. See you around, kid. Phil looks at his watch and rushes off. Rita looks on amazed and follows him at a distance.
BUSINESSMAN: Oh, my God! He's having a heart SECOND BUSINESSMAN Lay him down!
SECOND BUSINESSMAN: Lay him down!
BUSINESSMAN: What do I do? He's not
BREATHING1: SECOND BUSINESSMAN He's turning blue! Help! Phil walks straight up to the BLUE-FACED MAN, grabs him from behind, gets him in the Heimlich grip and squeezes sharply. A bolus of food flies across the room. The victim coughs and sputters, then starts breathing again.
SECOND BUSINESSMAN: He's turning blue! Help! Phil walks straight up to the BLUE-FACED MAN, grabs him from behind, gets him in the Heimlich grip and squeezes sharply. A bolus of food flies across the room. The victim coughs and sputters, then starts breathing again.
FIRST BUSINESSMAN: Jerry, you okay?
SECOND BUSINESSMAN: I think that did it. Phil lets go of the grateful victim.
PHIL: If you're going to eat steak, get better teeth, will you? Enjoy the rest of your lunch, gents. He exits.
JERRY: Wow. Who was that guy? Phil gets to the door and finds Rita standing there, looking at him in awe.
PHIL: ( CONFRONTING ) -Okay, hold it right there. I want to know what' s going on and I want to know right now.
.RITA: ( CONFRONTING ) -Okay, hold it right there. I want to know what' s going on and I want to know right now.
PHIL: I'm sorry, I'm really pressed right now. Meet me outside the hospital about 5:00 and we'll talk about it.
RITA: The hospital? Phil looks at his watch and rushes away.
PHIL: Try the curlycue fries. Killer.
NURSE: Looks like insulin shock. She's probably diabetic. Phil enters wearing a doctor's scrub suit and begins barking She's not diabetic. It's an overdose. Let's get her up here and pump her stomach, then I want a complete blood work-up, STAT.
PHIL: She's not diabetic. It's an overdose. Let's get her up here and pump her stomach, then I want a complete blood work-up, STAT.
NURSE: R i g h t , Doctoruh She realizes she's never seen him before.
PHIL: Call me Phil.
NURSE: Phil. Like the groundhog?
PHIL: CUT TO: INT. CHILDREN'S WARD - LATE AFTERNOON Sick CHILDREN in hospital gowns are gathered around Phil, laughing and squealing. Phil is. making balloon animals.
KID: Make a giraffe!
PHIL: A giraffe? Let's see. It's just like a dog with a biiiiig what was it?
PHIL: A big tail? Okay, a big tail.
KIDS: Neck! A big neck! Phil makes an animal really quickly. Rita watches from the doorway, unseen by Phil.
PHIL: There. A dog with long legs.
KIDS: Nooo ! Long neck !
PHIL: Oh! Right! A dog with a big The kids attack Phil. Lots of rolling around on the bed. Rita watches, completely enthralled. Finally, Phil extricates himself and exits to find Rita All right, now what's going on?
KIDS: The kids attack Phil. Lots of rolling around on the bed. Rita watches, completely enthralled. Finally, Phil extricates himself and exits to find Rita
RITA: All right, now what's going on?
PHIL: ( taking her arm ) Come on. We have to hurry.
PHIL: ( to Rita ) That little bastard has never thanked me once . I ought to j ust let him fall. Teach him a Phil, this is too I must be -1 1- Yeah, you and me both. Come on, We're almost done.
RITA: Phil, this is too I must be -1 1- Yeah, you and me both. Come on, We're almost done.
PHIL: Yeah, you and me both. Come on, We're almost done.
RITA: Is he ?
. 'PHIL: Yeah. Let's go.
RITA: In a minute. She waits and watches. The paramedics, BUD and ANDY, get out of the ambulance and inspect the scene.
BUD: It's ol1 Really.
ANDY: That's a shame.
BUD: Look here . Bud picks up the note Phil left. Rita steps closer.
RITA: May I see that? ( reading aloud ) "Every night, by cold bricks
GLOW: I watch the shadow rising from this old man in the snow. At 8:02 we let it go."
ANDY: ( REPEATING ) "At 8:02 we let it go."
BUD: Wow, that's nice. Rita hands him the note and quickly walks away.
ANDY: Suppose he wrote it?
BUD: ( DOUBTFUL ) Are you kidding?
RITA: Now what?
PHIL: Come on. You'll see. They enter.
RITA: This is incredible. Who's wedding is this?
PHIL: Just some friends. Dorisi The bride, DORIS, young and cheery, is on her way to see Phil. She is dragging FRED, her groom, with her.
DORIS: Hi, Mr. Connors! Come ON, This is the guy I told you about.
FRED: This is the guy I told you about.
DORIS: This is the guy I told you about.
FRED: No way!
PHIL: How's it going, Fred?
FRED: Hey, I ' d like to thank you for making Doris go through with Are you kidding? Don't buy that playing hard to get stuff. She's crazy about you, you stud.
PHIL: Are you kidding? Don't buy that playing hard to get stuff. She's crazy about you, you stud.
DORIS: I ' m really glad you could come.
PHIL: Phil reaches into his pocket, pulls out two tickets and hands them to Doris.
DORIS: What is this? Oh, no way! No way! Ahhh! Doris throws herself on Fred and jumps up and down. Fred grabs the tickets.
FRED: Wrestlemania! No way! No way! Doris throws herself on Phil.
DORIS: How did you know?
FRED: We're like going to be in Pittsburgh anyway.
PHIL: I don't know. I just thought about you two, tried to picture what you ' d want more than anything in the world and it came to me. Bing! Wrestlemania.
FRED: Thanks, Mr. Connors. You're a real pal.
DORIS: This is the best! Doris gives Phil a kiss. She and Fred move on.
RITA: I don ' t understand . You rush from one person to the next in a town you only visit once a year, you know everything before it happens , and you - I don ' t know , you seem to be Punxsutawney ' s leading citizen. The band finishes a set. The guests stop dancing and head for the refreshments. Phil and Rita are left alone for the moment
PHIL: What do you want to know?
RITA: Who are you?
PHIL: I really don't know.
RITA: No, there's something going on with you.
PHIL: Okay, I wake up in Punxsutawney on February second every day. It's supernatural. I don't even try to explain it anymore. So, I live each day as if it's the only day I've got. Rita stares into his eyes for a very long time, but sees only good, true things.
RITA: That's pretty amazing. "
PHIL: You want to know what's really amazing? I've been waiting for you every day for ten thousand years. I dream of you every night of my life. You've been my constant weapon against total despair, and just knowing you exist has kept me alive. How's Rita can't even speak. This is clearly the nicest thing anybody has ever said to anybody. Mary the piano teacher notices Phil.
MARY: ( to her friend ) This is the guy.
PHIL: Hello, Mary. Rita, this is one of Punxsey's finest musicians.
MARY: Give me a break. You should talk. Why don't you play N o , I
PHIL: N o , I
MARY: Hey, Mr. Connors. Go for it. Phil looks at Rita. She nods and shrugs. Phil walks up to the platform and sits at the piano. He begins to play a slow, serious, classical piece. Everyone falls silent. It's so beautiful, Rita is almost in tears. Then, after a pause to let the serious notes sink in, Phil transforms the piece into a fast, lively, upbeat jazz romp. Everyone is delighted, and as the rest of the band kicks in, everyone grabs a partner and begins to dance. An old coot, UNCLE LEO, grabs Rita and the two of them dance up a storm.
FRED: Hey, Mr. Connors. Go for it. Phil looks at Rita. She nods and shrugs. Phil walks up to the platform and sits at the piano. He begins to play a slow, serious, classical piece. Everyone falls silent. It's so beautiful, Rita is almost in tears. Then, after a pause to let the serious notes sink in, Phil transforms the piece into a fast, lively, upbeat jazz romp. Everyone is delighted, and as the rest of the band kicks in, everyone grabs a partner and begins to dance. An old coot, UNCLE LEO, grabs Rita and the two of them dance up a storm.
LEO: That's a great guy you've got there. Doctor Connors fixed my back, you know.
RITA: Do ctor Connors?
PHIL: Wait! Don't move!
RITA: Making a snow man? I'll help.
PHIL: No, stay there. Stand right th ere.
LATER: Phil is using a stick and the heat of his bare hands to model a delicate fold in the snow sculpture. Several bystanders look o n with interest as Phil stands back from his work.
RITA: Can I look?
PHIL: O kay, look.
RITA: ( OVERWHELMED ) Nobody's ever done this for me. Not even a drawing. It's This is how I see you. When it all gets too much, I just close my eyes and there you are just like this. Take it home and keep it in the freezer. Rita embraces Phil. They are about to kiss, looking deep into each others eyes.
PHIL: This is how I see you. When it all gets too much, I just close my eyes and there you are just like this. Take it home and keep it in the freezer. Rita embraces Phil. They are about to kiss, looking deep into each others eyes.
PHIL: This one's for the Frog Prince.
RITA: They kiss a long, deep, soul-stirring kiss.
PHIL: They kiss a long, deep, soul-stirring kiss.
PHIL: Will you come with me? Rita nods. They continue standing there, embracing, warming each other in the cold night air.
RITA: ( looks back at the ice
SCULPTURE ): We're just going to leave her?
PHIL: It doesn't matter. Really, it They kiss again.
PHIL: ( DISBELIEVING ) It's not true. It's not. It can't be true. Rita? Rita!
RITA: ( STRETCHING LUXURIOUSLY ) Mmmm. Morning. Phil pounces on Rita, showering her with kisses.
( STRETCHING: LUXURIOUSLY ) Mmmm. Morning. Phil pounces on Rita, showering her with kisses.
LUXURIOUSLY ): Mmmm. Morning. Phil pounces on Rita, showering her with kisses.
PHIL: You're here! My god! I can't believe you're here!
RITA: Glad to see you, too.
PHIL: No! It's happened. Don't you get it? It's tomorrow! It's Phil turns on the radio.
DEEJAY: . . . still shoveling put the highways, but if you're walking, it's a beautiful day.
S IDEKICK: Yeah, the snow kind of cleaned e ve r yt h in g up
DEEJAY: except your mouth. Phil kisses the radio.
PHIL: I love those guys.
RITA: Are you always this jolly in the Phil runs to the window and looks out.
PHIL: No groundhog! Rita! They're all You must've had some dream. Phil stops, thinks.
RITA: You must've had some dream. Phil stops, thinks.
PHIL: Did I just dream it? Phil opens the door and runs into the hallway wearing only pajama bottoms.
RITA: Phi l? Phil! Rita sits up in bed and waits. Suddenly, from somewhere else in the inn comes the sound of Phil at the piano expertly playing a difficult classical piece. He stops after a few PHIL ( O.C. ) Phil runs back into the room.
PHIL: It really happened! You're really here! He pounces on Rita again.
PHIL: You're really actually here.
RITA: ( LAUGHING ) I'm here, I'm here! They kiss, passionately, hungrily.
PHIL: Let's go! He scoops her up in his arms.
RITA: Where're we going?
PHIL: Anywhere! Everywhere!
MRS. LANCASTER: Oh, my!
PHIL: Florence! Say hello to Rita. She loves me.
MRS. LANCASTER: I'm not surprised. He kisses her on the cheek and rushes out with Rita.
A MAN: Phil! Good morning!
A LADY: Mr. Connors. I wanted to thank That's all right. I A FLORIST steps out of the flower shop with a bouquet.
PHIL: That's all right. I A FLORIST steps out of the flower shop with a bouquet.
FLORIST: Phil, here. I want you to have Thanks, Carl. Phil smells the flowers, and hands the bouquet to Rita.
PHIL: Thanks, Carl. Phil smells the flowers, and hands the bouquet to Rita.
NED: But Phil told me you were his Look, I told you! He's nuts! Larry keeps trying to walk away, but Ned won't leave him alone.
LARRY: Look, I told you! He's nuts! Larry keeps trying to walk away, but Ned won't leave him alone.
NED: Let me just tell you about single premium life Finally, Larry slugs Ned and storms off, leaving Ned floundering in a snowbank. Phil and Rita walk on as we pull up and away from Main Street revealing the whole of Punxsutawney and the snowy countryside that embraces it.
THE END: Writers : Danny Rubin
