VOICE: 3 billion human lives ended on August 29th, 1997. The survivors of the nuclear fire called the war Judgment Day. They lived only to face a new nightmare, the war against the Machines. A metal foot crushes the skull like china. TILT UP, revealing a humanoid machine holding a massive battle rifle. It looks like a CHROME SKELETON. a high-tech Death figure. It is the endoskeleton of a Series 800 terminator. Its glowing red eyes compassionlessly sweep the dead terrain, hunting. The SOUNDS of ROARING TURBINES. Searchlights blaze down as a formation of flying HK ( Hunter-Killer ) patrol machines passes overhead. PAN WITH THEM toward the jagged horizon, beyond which we see flashes, and hear the distant thunder of a pitched battle in THE BATTLE. Human troops is desperate combat with the machines for possession of the dead Earth. The humans are a ragtag guerrilla army. Skynet's weapons consist of Ground HKs ( tank-like robot gun-platforms ), flying Aerial HKs, four-legged gun-pods called Centurions, and the humanoid terminators in various forms.
CIGAR BIKER: You forgot to say please. He grinds the cigar out on Terminator's chest. Which produces not the slight reaction of pain. Terminator calmly, and without expression, grabs Cigar by his meaty upper arm. Cigar screams from the hydraulic grip. Terminator doesn't see Cigar's friend, behind him, holding his pool cue by the narrow end like a Louisville Slugger. The heavy send whistles in a powerful swing and CRACKS IN TWO across the back of Terminator's head. Terminator seems not to notice. Doesn't even blink. Without releasing his grip on Cigar, he snaps his arm straight back and grabs Pool Cue by the front of his jacket. Suddenly the heavyset biker finds himself flying through the nearest window. CRAASSH! Terminator hurls Cigar, all 230 pounds of him, clear over the bar, through the serving window into the kitchen, where he lands on the big flat GRILL. We hear a SOUND like SIZZLING BACON as Cigar screams, flopping jerking. He rolls off in a smoking heap. The third biker whips out a knife with a eight-inch blade and slashes at Terminator's face. Terminator grabs the arcing blade with his bare hand. Holding it by the razor-sharp blade he jerks is from the guy's hand. Ultra-fast here: He flips it. Grabs the handle like you're supposed to hold a knife. Grabs the biker and slams him face-down over the bar. Then brings the knife whistling down, pinning the biker's shoulder to the bar top with his own steel.
TRUCKER: Terminator impassively stares back. Then moves on out the door.
LLOYD: I can't let you take the man's wheels, son. Now get off or I'll put you down. Terminator turns and considers by coldly. He eases the shifter up into neutral. Rocks the bike onto its kickstand. Swings him leg over and walks calmly toward the guy. Terminator strides right up to Lloyd, staring straight into the shotgun's muzzle. Lloyd starts sweating, trying to decide is he's going to kill a man in cold blood. He's still trying to decide when Terminator's hand blurs out like a striking cobra and is somehow suddenly holding the shotgun. Lloyd gapes, knowing he's screwed. Then. Terminator reaches toward him. Oh shit. And slips the sunglasses out of Lloyd's shirt pocket. Puts them on. Strides back to the Harley and roars off in a shower of gravel.
WOMAN: .John? John! Get in here right now and clean up that pigsty of yours. John's friend TIM, a thirteen-year-old Hispanic kid, watches as John replies by turning up the volume on the boom box. Janelle gives up with a SLAM of the house's back door.
TIM: Your foster parents are kinda dicks, right?
JOHN: Gimme that Phillips right there.
JANELLE: I swear I've had it with that goddamn kid. He won't even answer me. Todd? Are you gonna sit there or are you gonna do something? He sighs. Throws down the TV's remote and heads for the garage.
TODD: John! Get your ass inside right now and do what your mother says! John pins Todd with a defiant glare.
JOHN: She's not my mother, Todd! He revs the engine and peels out of the garage, with Tim almost falling off the back. They take off down the street.
TIM: Major moves, homes! So. where is your real mom, anyway? She dead or something? It's hard to read John's expression.
JOHN: She might as well be. John twists the throttle angrily and the bike lunges forward.
SILBERMAN: The next patient is a 29-year old female diagnosed as acute schizo-affective disorder. The usual indicators. depression, anxiety, violent acting-out, delusions of persecution. Here we are. Silberman stops at one of the SOUNDPROOF STEEL DOORS. There is a two- way speaker beneath a tiny window. Silberman flips the intercom Silberman's scrubbed and cheerful face at cell window. HIS VOICE comes over the tinny speaker.
SILBERMAN: 'Morning, Sarah. REVERSE ANGLE as she turns slowly into CLOSE UP. SARAH CONNOR is not the same woman we remember from last time. Her eyes peer out through a wild tangle of hair like those of a cornered animal. Defiant and intense, but skittering around looking for escape at the same time. Fight or flight. Down one cheek is a long scar, from just below the eye to her upper lip. Her VOICE is a low and chilling monotone.
SARAH: Good morning, Dr. Silberman. How's the knee?
SILBERMAN: Fine, Sarah. She, uh. stabbed me in the kneecap with a screwdriver a few weeks ago. Sarah watches them talking about her through the glass, but can't hear them. She feels like a lab animal. The interns look in at her through the glass as Silberman talks. With her face drawn, eyes haggard and hair wild, she looks like she belongs where she is.
SILBERMAN: The delusional architecture is interesting. She believes a machine called a "terminator", which looks human of course, was sent back though time to kill her. And also that the father of her child was a soldier, sent to protect her. he was from the future too. The year 2029, if I remember correctly. Let's move on, shall we? As the interns walk on, Silberman steps close to DOUGLAS, the head attendant, and speaks low.
SILBERMAN: Douglas, I don't like seeing the patients disturbing their rooms like this. See that she takes her thorazine, would you? DOUGLAS is 6'4", 250 pounds and warm-hearted at a rattlesnake. He nods, catching Silberman's meaning, and gestures for the other attendants to hang back as Silberman moves on in his rounds.
DOUGLAS: Time to take you meds, Connor. Sarah faces him, weight centered. Feral eyes darting from one to the You take it. Douglas grins, casual
SARAH: You take it. Douglas grins, casual
DOUGLAS: Now you know you got to be good 'cause you up for review this afternoon.
SARAH: I'm not taking it. Now I don't want any Ain't no trouble at all He whips the baton in a whistling backhand, which WHAP! Takes her square in the stomach. She doubles over and drops to her knees, unable to breathe. Douglas tips the bed and it slams down with a crash, right new to her. He takes her stun wand from the other attendant and walks forward. TIGHT ON SARAH, grimacing and struggling to breathe.
DOUGLAS: Ain't no trouble at all He whips the baton in a whistling backhand, which WHAP! Takes her square in the stomach. She doubles over and drops to her knees, unable to breathe. Douglas tips the bed and it slams down with a crash, right new to her. He takes her stun wand from the other attendant and walks forward. TIGHT ON SARAH, grimacing and struggling to breathe.
SARAH: You. son of a. AAARRGH!! The stun wand hits her between shoulder blades as she tries to rise. It drives her to the floor, pinning her like a bug. Little ELECTRIC ARCS CRACKLE as the baton makes her writhe in pain. Douglas grabs her by the hair and jerks her up to her knees. Holds the cup of thorazine in front of her lips.
DOUGLAS: Last call, sugar. Gasping, she chokes the zombie juice down.
JOHN: Easy money!
TIM: Where'd you learn all this stuff? John collects the twenties as the machine kicks them out. A cool and professional electronic-age thief at ten years old.
JOHN: From my mom. My real mom, I mean. Come on Let's go! They sprint around the corner to an
TIM: That her? John reluctantly shows his friend the Polaroid. It is a shot of Sarah. Pregnant, in a jeep near the Mexican border. John doesn't know it now, but he will carry the photo with him for over 30 years, and give it to a young man named Kyle Reese, who will travel back in time to become his father. Yes, that photo.
TIM: So she's pretty cool, huh?
JOHN: Actually, no, she's a complete psycho. That's why she's up at Pescedero. She tries to blow up a computer factory, but she got shot and arrested.
TIM: No shit?
JOHN: Yeah, she's a total loser. C'mon, let's check out the 7-Eleven, whatya say? John has tried to sound casual, but we see in his eyes that is really hurts. He slaps Tim on the shoulder and they jump onto his Honda. John fires up and they whine off down the alley.
OFFICER X: Are you the legal guardian of John Connor?
TODD: That's right, officer. What's he done now? Officer X ignores the question. He casually scans the living room.
OFFICER X: Could I speak with him, please? Todd shrugs, showing the cop he's past his patience with the boy.
TODD: Well, you could if he was here. Be he took off on his bike this morning. Could be anywhere. You gonna tell me what his is about?
OFFICER X: I just need to ask him a few questions. Janelle appears in the doorway behind Todd, concerned.
JANELLE: There was a guy here this morning asking about him, too.
TODD: Yeah, big guy. On a bike. Has that got something to do with it? Officer X registers the significance of that. He realizes who the big guy must be. He smiles. Reassuringly shakes his head no.
OFFICER X: I wouldn't worry. Do you have a photograph of John? Todd stares unhappily at the cop. Turns to Janelle.
TODD: Get the album, Janelle.
SARAH: Kyle..? You're dead. He gives her a gentle smile.
REESE: I know. This is a dream, Sarah.
SARAH: Oh. Yeah. They. make me take this stuff. He puts a finger to her lips. Then silently unfastens her restraints. They gaze into each other's eyes. And in the look that his death and the horror she has been through since hasn't touched their love at all.
SARAH: Hold me. She melts into Reese's arms. Pulls him to her.
REESE: I love you. I always will.
SARAH: Oh, God. Kyle. I need you so much. She kisses him passionately. They are locked together in a timeless moment. PUSH IN TIGHT on Sarah as she buries her face in his shoulder. She shuts her eyes tight. Stay on Sarah as Reese speaks. He voice is strangely cold.
SARAH: They took him from me.
REESE: It's John who's the target now. You have to protect him. He's wide open.
SARAH: I know!
REESE: Don't quit, Sarah. Our son need you.
SARAH: ( struggling not to cry ) I know, but I'm not as strong as I'm supposed to be. I can't do it. I'm screwing up the Remember the message. the future is not set. There is not fate but what we make for ourselves.
REESE: Remember the message. the future is not set. There is not fate but what we make for ourselves. He turns toward the door.
SARAH: Kyle, don't go!
REESE: ( turning back to her ) There's not much time left in the world, Sarah.
VIDEO SARAH: . it's. like a giant strobe light, burning right through my eyes. but somehow I can still see. Look, you know the dream's the same every night, why do I have to
VIDEO SILBERMAN: Please continue. expression is controlled. Silberman watches her watching. They are in a brightly-lit interview room. TWO ATTENDANTS stands nearby.
VIDEO SILBERMAN: Dreams about cataclysm, or the end of the world, are very common, Sarah. Video Sarah cuts him off, her mood shifting to sudden rage.
VIDEO SARAH: It's not just a dream. It's real, you moron! I know the date is happens!!
VIDEO SILBERMAN: I'm sure it feels very real to you
VIDEO SARAH: On August 29th 1997 it's going to feel pretty fucking real to you, too! Anybody not wearing number two million sunblock in gonna have a real bad day, get it?
VIDEO SILBERMAN: Relax now, Sarah
VIDEO SARAH: You think you're alive and safe, but you're already dead. Everybody, you, him. everybody. you're all fucking dead! She is raving, half out of her chair. The orderly moves to inject her with something.
VIDEO SARAH: You're the one living in a dream, Silberman, not me! Because I know it happens. It Real Sarah turns away from the screen, he expression stony.
SARAH: I was afraid. and confused. I feel much better, now. Clearer. Silberman gives a calculated paternal smile.
SILBERMAN: Yes. Your attitude have been very positive Sarah looks up at him. Her voice is hopeful.
SARAH: It has helped me a lot to have a goal, something to look forward to.
SILBERMAN: And what it that? As she answers, WE PULL BACK, revealing that we have been looking through a one-way mirror from an adjacent OBSERVATION ROOM. In the shadows of the observation room we see that interns from the earlier rounds, and a couple of STAFF PSYCHOLOGISTS. They smoke and make the occasional note.
SARAH: You said I could be transferred to the minimum security wing and have visitors if I showed improvement in six months. Well, it's been six months, and I was looking forward to seeing my I see. Let's go back to what you were saying about these terminator machines. Now you think they don't exist? CLOSE ON SARAH. Her voice sounds hollow.
SILBERMAN: I see. Let's go back to what you were saying about these terminator machines. Now you think they don't exist? CLOSE ON SARAH. Her voice sounds hollow.
SARAH: They don't exist. I see that now. Silberman leans back, studying her. Toying with her.
SILBERMAN: But you've told me on many occasions about how you crushed one in a hydraulic press.
SARAH: If I had, there would have been some evidence. They would have found something at the factory.
SILBERMAN: I see. So you don't believe anymore that the company covered it up? Sarah shakes her head no.
DYSON: Greetings, troops. He is jokingly saluted by fellow members. Not a lab coat in sight. This is strictly jeans and sneakers crowd. All young and bright. They sit at their consoles drinking Coke and changing technology as we know it. A young LAB ASSISTANT rushes over to Dyson. Name tag says he's BRYANT.
BRYANT: Mr. Dyson? The material teams wants to run another test on the uh. on it.
DYSON: Yup. Come on. I'll get it. Dyson produces an unusual-looking KEY from his pocket as they stride through the lab. Bryant has to hustle to keep up.
BRYANT: Listen, Mr. Dyson, I know I haven't been here that long, but I was wondering if you could tell me. I mean, if you know.
DYSON: Know what?
BRYANT: Well. where it came from.
DYSON: I asked them that question once. Know what they told me? Don't ask.
SARAH: So what do you think, Doctor? I've shown a lot of improvement, haven't I?
SILBERMAN: You see, Sarah. here's the problem. I know how smart you are, and I think you're just telling me what I want to hear. I don't think you really believe who you've been telling me We go tight on Sarah's reaction. And we see that Silberman is right. She was playing him and it didn't work. And she knows she's fucked. Her tone becomes quite pleading.
SARAH: You have to let me see my son. Please. It's very important. He's in danger. At least let me call him Silberman pins her with his sweet reptilian gaze.
SILBERMAN: I'm afraid not. Not for a while. I don't see any choice but to recommend to the review board that you stay here another six months. Sarah's eyes turn cold and lethal in one second. She knows she's lost. She knows this guy is just playing with her, and she
SARAH: YOU SON OF A BITCH!! Silberman jumps back and the attendants dive on her. She is writhing and twisting like a bobcat. Silberman whips open a drawer and pulls out a syringe. He jabs it into her and she yells
SARAH: Goddammit. Let me go!! Silberman! You don't know what you're doing! You fuck! You're dead! You hear me!! Silberman signals and the attendants drag her out. He looks at the doctors behind the glass. Shrugs.
SILBERMAN: Model citizen.
FIRST GIRL: Yeah, he was here about fifteen minutes ago. I think he said he was going to the Galleria.
OFFICER X: The what? The second girl points toward a massive complex visible about the houses several blocks away. Officer X stares at it.
TIM: Some cop is scoping for you, dude. John looks around the corner of the "Afterburner" ride. Sees the cop showing a picture to some of the kids. The kids point his way. John ducks just as the cop glances over. He slinks out the other side of the ride and heads for the back of the store, instinctively retreating. Sarah has taught him that cops are bad news. THE COP scans the crowded arcade. Glimpses John, looking back as he moves around a row of machines. Starts toward him. JOHN sees the cop homing in and starts walking fast. Looks back. THE COP is shoving through clots of kids. One of them is slammed to the floor. As eddy of outrage behind the cop as he gains speed. John breaks into run. So does the cop. Kids scatter like ten-pins as the cop charges after John. John sprints through the arcade's back officer and store-rooms.
TERMINATOR: Get down. John instinctively ducks. Terminator pulls the trigger. KABOOM! THE COP catches the SHOTGUN'S BLAST square in the chest just as he fires the pistol. The pistol's shot goes wild. TERMINATOR pumps another round into him. The another. And another. Advancing a step each time he fires, he empties the shotgun into the cop, blowing his backward down the corridor. The sound is DEAFENING. Then silence. THE COP lies still on his back. cop, incredibly, sits up unharmed and gets to his feet. Terminator grabs John roughly by his jacket. Clutches the kid to his chest then spins around at the cop opens fire with the Beretta. pulls the trigger so fast it almost seems like a machine-pistol. ON TERMINATOR'S BACK, as the 9mm slugs slam into it, punching bloody holes in the motorcycle jacket. JOHN is bug-eyed with fear, but completely unscratched. Terminator's body has blocked the bullets. The Beretta CLACKS empty. Terminator turns at the sound. Shoves John behind a Coke machine. Drops the empty shotgun. Starts walking toward the "cop". The empty magazine clatters to the floor. The cop inserts another one. Snaps back the slide. Terminator still has twenty feet to go. He doesn't break his purposeful stride. The cop opens fire. Bullets rake Terminator's chest. He doesn't even flinch. Ten feet to go. BLAM BLAM BLAM BLAM! Neither the cop nor Terminator show the slightest change in expression as the gun rips Terminator's wardrobe to shreds. CLACK. The pistol empties again. Terminator stops two feet in front of the cop. The appraise each other for a second. We realize now that the cop is a terminator too. We don't know the details yet, but let's call him the T-1000 ( since that's what he is ). A newer model than the one we've come to know so well ( the 800 Series "Arnold" ). This guy's a prototype. and he's got quite a few surprises. T-1000 AND TERMINATOR size each other up. Terminator moves first. He grabs T-1000 in his massive hands but the T-1000 snaps back with a counter-grip. After about two seconds of intense slamming, the walls on both sides of the corridor have all the plaster smashed in, and the two battling machines have blasted through the wall and JOHN, totally stunned by all this, remembers to move. He staggers to his feet. Stumble-runs toward the parking garage. crashes through to the tile floor like a sack of cement amid the screaming crowd. John, accelerating slowly into a loping, predatory run. forward and takes a picture of the body. Suddenly, Terminator's eyes snap open. The stunned tourist backs away. He sits up and looks around. Gets his bearings. Rises smoothly to his feet. All servos seem to be working fine. The tourist's camera whirs as the motor-drive runs on by itself, taking shot after show. The owner isn't even looking through the eyepiece, he's so shocked.
JOHN: Whoa. time out. Stop the bike! Terminator immediately complies. He leans the bike into a turn. They head into a nearby alley.
JOHN: Now don't take this the wrong way, but you are a terminator, right?
TERMINATOR: Yes. Cyberdyne Systems, Model 101.
JOHN: No way! John touches Terminator's skin. Then the blood on his jacket. His mind overloads as the reality of it hits him.
JOHN: Holy shit. you're really real! I mean. You're, uh. like a machine underneath, right. but sort of alive outside?
TERMINATOR: I'm a cybernetic organism. Living tissue over a metal endoskeleton.
JOHN: This in intense. Get a grip, John. Okay, uh. you're not here to kill me. I figured that part out for myself. So what's the deal?
TERMINATOR: My mission is to protect you.
JOHN: Yeah? Who sent you?
TERMINATOR: You did. Thirty years from now you reprogrammed me to be your protector here, in this time. John gives him an amazed look.
JOHN: This is deep.
JOHN: So this other guy? He's a terminator too, right, like you?
TERMINATOR: Not like me. A T-1000. Advanced prototype. A mimetic polyalloy.
JOHN: What does that mean?
TERMINATOR: Liquid metal.
JOHN: You are targeted for termination. The T-1000 will not stop until it complete its mission. John mulls that over.
TERMINATOR: You are targeted for termination. The T-1000 will not stop until it complete its mission. John mulls that over.
JOHN: Where we going?
TERMINATOR: We have to leave the city, immediately. And avoid the authorities.
JOHN: Can I stop by my house?
TERMINATOR: Negative. The T-1000 will definitely try to reacquire you there.
JOHN: You sure?
TERMINATOR: I would.
JOHN: Look, Todd and Janelle are dicks but I gotta warn them. Shit! You got a quarter? Terminator reaches past John and smashes the cover plate off the phone's cash box with the heel of his hand. A shower of change tumbles out. Terminator hands one to John. John dials.
JANELLE: ( filtered through phone ) Janelle? It's me. John? Where are you, honey? It's late. You should come home, dear. I'm making a casserole.
JOHN: ( filtered through phone ) Janelle? It's me. John? Where are you, honey? It's late. You should come home, dear. I'm making a casserole.
JANELLE: John? Where are you, honey? It's late. You should come home, dear. I'm making a casserole. AT THE PAYPHONE. John listens, an odd look on his face. He covers the phone's mouthpiece and turns to Terminator.
JOHN: ( whispering ) Something's wrong. She's never this nice.
TODD: What the hell's the goddamn dog barking at?
JOHN: The dog's really barking. Maybe it's already there. What should I do? Terminator takes the phone from John's hand. Janelle's voice is floating through the receiver.
JANELLE: ( filtered ) John? John, are you okay? ( in John's voice ) I'm right here. I'm fine. ( to John, a whisper ) What's the dog's name?
TERMINATOR: ( in John's voice ) I'm right here. I'm fine. ( to John, a whisper ) What's the dog's name?
JOHN: Terminator nods. Speaks into the phone.
TERMINATOR: Hey, Janelle, what's wrong with Wolfy? I can hear him barking. Is he okay?
JANELLE: ( filtered ) Wolfy's fine, honey. Where are you?
TERMINATOR: Your foster parents are dead. Let's go. Terminator heads for the bike. John, shocked, stares after him.
JOHN: I need a minute here, okay? You're telling me it can imitate anything it touches?
TERMINATOR: Anything it samples by physical contact. John thinks about that, trying to grasp their opponent's parameters.
JOHN: Like it could disguise itself as anything. a pack of cigarettes?
TERMINATOR: No. Only an object of equal size. John's still reeling from meeting one terminator, which now seems downright conventional next to the exotic new model.
JOHN: Well, why doesn't become a bomb or something to get me?
TERMINATOR: It can't form complex machines. Guns and explosives have chemicals, moving parts. It doesn't work that way. But it can form solid metal shapes.
JOHN: We spent a lot of time in Nicaragua. places like that. For a while she was with this crazy ex-Green Beret guy, running guns. Then there were some other guys. She'd shack up with anybody she could learn from. So then she could teach me how to be this great military leader. Then she gets busted and it's like. sorry kid, your mom's a psycho. Didn't you know? It's like. everything I'd been brought up to believe was just made-up fantasy, right? I hated her for that. But everything she said was true. We gotta get her out of there.
TERMINATOR: Negative. The T-1000's highest probability for success now would be to copy Sarah Connor and wait for you to make contact with her.
JOHN: Oh, great. And what happens to her? Terminator's reply is matter-of-fact.
TERMINATOR: Typically, the subject being copied is TERMINATED!? Shit! Why didn't you tell me? We gotta right now!
JOHN: TERMINATED!? Shit! Why didn't you tell me? We gotta right now!
TERMINATOR: Negative. She is not a mission priority.
JOHN: Yeah, well fuck you, she's a priority to me! John strides away. Terminator goes after him and grabs him arm. John struggles against the grip. Which doesn't do him much good.
JOHN: Hey, goddammit! What's your problem? Starts dragging John back to the bike. John spots a couple of collage-age slab-o-meat JOCK-TYPES across the street and starts yelling to them.
JOHN: Help! HELP!! I'm being kidnapped! Get this psycho off of me! The TWO JOCKS start toward him. John yells in outrage to Terminator.
JOHN: Let go of me!! To his surprise, Terminator's hand opens so fast John falls right on his butt. He looks up at the open hand.
JOHN: Oww! Why'd you do that?
TERMINATOR: You told me to. John stares at him in amazement as he realizes.
JOHN: You have to do what I say?!
TERMINATOR: That is one of my mission parameters.
JOHN: Prove it. stand on one foot. Terminator expressionlessly lifts one leg. John grins. He's the first on his block.
JOHN: Cool! My own terminator. This is great! The two guys get there and look at Terminator standing there calmly with one leg up in the air. This big guy in black leather and dark glasses, standing like a statue.
FIRST JOCK: Hey, kid. You okay? John turns to him. No longer needing to be rescued.
JOHN: Take a hike, bozo.
FIRST JOCK: Yeah? Fuck you, you little dipshit.
JOHN: Dipshit? Did you say dipshit?! Grab this guy. Terminator complies instantly, hoisting him one-handed by the collar. the guy's legs are pinwheeling.
JOHN: Now who's the dipshit, you jock douchebag? Immediately, things get out of hand. The guy's friend jumps behind Terminator and tries to grab him in a full nelson Terminator throws the first guy across the hood of a car Grabs the second by the hair, whips out his .45 in a quick blur, and aims the muzzle at the guy's forehead. John grabs Terminator's arm with a yell as he pulls the trigger John's weight is just enough to deflect the gun a few inches. The guy flinches, stunned by the K-BOOM next to his ear. He stares, shocked. Pissing himself. John is freaking out, too. He screams at Terminator.
JOHN: Put the gun down! NOW!! Terminator sets the .45 on the sidewalk. John scoops it up fast then turns to the shocked civilians, who can't believe what just happened.
JOHN: Walk away. They do. Fast. John grabs Terminator by the arm and tugs him toward the bike. John still holds the gun, reluctant to give it back.
JOHN: Jesus. you were gonna kill that guy!
TERMINATOR: Of course. I'm a terminator. John stares at him. Having your own terminator just became a little bit less fun to him.
JOHN: Listen to me, very carefully, okay? You're not a terminator any more. Alright? You got that? You can't just go around killing people!
TERMINATOR: Whattaya mean, why? 'Cause you can't!
JOHN: Whattaya mean, why? 'Cause you can't!
TERMINATOR: You just can't, okay? Trust me on this. Terminator doesn't get it. John just stares at him. Frightened at what just almost happened. He gets a glimpse of the responsibility that comes with power. Finally he hands the .45 back to Terminator, who puts it away.
JOHN: You just can't, okay? Trust me on this. Terminator doesn't get it. John just stares at him. Frightened at what just almost happened. He gets a glimpse of the responsibility that comes with power. Finally he hands the .45 back to Terminator, who puts it away.
JOHN: Look, I'm gonna go get my mom. You wanna come along, that's fine with me.
MOSSBERG: He killed seventeen police officers that night. Recognize him? Weathersby slaps another black-and-white eight-by-ten on the table. A closeup of Terminator taken by the Japanese tourist at the mall. It's the same face.
MOSSBERG: This one was taken by a Japanese tourist today. Sarah doesn't react. It's hard to tell she's thinking. Whether she's up hope or is just in a drugged stupor.
WEATHERSBY: Ms. Connor, you've been told that your son's missing. His foster parents have been murdered, and we know this guy's involved. Talk to us. Don't you care? Sarah stares up at him. A cold and empty stare. He glances at Then at his partner.
MOSSBERG: We're wasting out time. One of the uniformed cops opens the door and Mossberg strides into the hall. Weathersby and the two uniforms follow him out, with Silberman right behind.
SILBERMAN: Sorry, gentleman. TIGHT ON SARAH, slumped under the bright lights. Totally out of it. Then we see her hand, creeping along the edge of the table toward the stack of photos. She slips off the paper clip binding the stills together, and hides it between her fingers. Douglas jerks her up by the arms and leads her out.
NIGHT NURSE: Running late, aren't you? She turns to the inner door to buzz him in and sees Silberman and the cops coming toward the door from the other side.
NIGHT NURSE: Your friends are on their way out now. When she turns back to the window, T-1000's no longer there. She goes to the counter and leans out to see if he's at the drinking fountain or someplace. No. Reception is empty. And so is the long corridor beyond. She frowns. Too weird. Weathersby, the two uniformed cops, and the hospital security guard. The guard retrieves his 9mm pistol from a lock-out box behind the night desk. Silberman faces him.
SILBERMAN: Lewis, see these gentleman out and them lock up for the night. The security guard nods. Silberman goes back into the secure area of the hospital and the cops walk down the long corridor to the main doors. No sign of T-1000. Mossberg and the other cops exit, and the guard locks the door behind them. dark, with the light at the night desk far ahead like a sanctuary. His footsteps ring hollowly on the tile floor. His keys jingle. later the floor starts to move. It shivers and bulges upward like a liquid mass, still retaining the two-tone checkerboard of the tile. It hunches up silently into a quivering shadow in the darkness past the guard. The guard stops as the drinking fountain. Bends to take a sip. Behind him the fluid mass as reaches six feet of height and begins to resolve rapidly into a human figure. It loses the color and texture of the tile and becomes. THE GUARD. T-1000's mass has been spread out a quarter of an inch thick over several square yards of floor. The guard walked over the T-1000, and his structure was sampled that instant. Now we see it drawing in and pulling up to form the figure of the guard. The T-1000/Guard's feet are the last to form, the last of the "liquid floor" pulling in to form shiny black guard shoes. The shoes detach with a faint sucking sound from the real floor as the T-1000/Guard takes its first step. He has one deeply disturbing moment to consider the ramifications of that. Then he sees his double calmly raise its hand and, inexplicably, points his right index finger directly at the real guard's face, about a foot away. In a split second, the finger spears out, elongating into a thin steel rod which snaps out like a stiletto, slamming into the guard's eye. It punches into the corner of the eye, past the eyeball like a trans- orbital lobotomy tool, and emerges from the back of the guard's skull. Life quietly empties from the guard's face. He is dead weight, hanging from the rod/finger with suddenly reacts SSSNICK. As the guard slumps, the T-1000 takes his weight easily with one hand and walks him, like it's carrying a suit on a hanger, back toward the night desk. The wounds are so tiny, no blood drips onto the floor. dragging something casually which she can't see because it's below the countertop.
NIGHT NURSE: Whatcha got, Lewis?
NIGHT NURSE: Gotta check the gun first, Lewis.
SILBERMAN: You broke my arm!
SARAH: There's 215 bones in the human body, motherfucker. That's one. Now don't move! They keep a few of these handy for tranking unruly patients. She jams it into the orderly's butt and fires the whole shot. Still holding the empty syringe, she sees what she need next. They keep the toxic cleaning supplies in here to keep the inmates from drinking Drano. She grabs a plastic jug of LIQUID PLUM'R and slams it down on the desk inches from Silberman's eyes. She jams the empty syringe into the plastic jug. Draws back the plunger. The syringe fills with blue liquid. She whips it out of the jug and jams the needle into Silberman's neck. His horrified eyes rack toward it. 10 cc's of blue death fill the Her thumb hovers over the plunger. She jerks him to his feet by the collar and gets a tight grip on him, then hauls him through the door. window. Douglas, his face a bloody mess, yells to be heard.
DOUGLAS: Open the door! The goddamn bitch is loose in the halls! To Douglas' amazement, Lewis the Guard turns impassively and walks away, leaving him shouting soundlessly at the window.
JOHN: Now remember, you're not gonna kill anyone, John looks at him. He's not convinced.
TERMINATOR: John looks at him. He's not convinced.
JOHN: Just say "I swear I won't kill anyone." John holds his hand up, like he's being sworn in. Terminator stares at John a beat. Then mimics the gesture.
TERMINATOR: Just say "I swear I won't kill anyone." John holds his hand up, like he's being sworn in. Terminator stares at John a beat. Then mimics the gesture.
JOHN: Just say "I swear I won't kill anyone." John holds his hand up, like he's being sworn in. Terminator stares at John a beat. Then mimics the gesture.
TERMINATOR: I swear I will not kill anyone. Terminator stops the bike and gets off. The guard, sensing trouble, has his gun drawn as he comes out of the shack. Terminator walks toward him drawing his .45 smoothly. BLAM! He shoots the guard accurately in the thigh. The guy drops, screaming and clutching his leg. Terminator kicks the guard's gun away, then smashes the phone in the shack with his fist. He pushes the button to raise the gate and walks back to the bike.
TERMINATOR: He'll live. Terminator climbs onto the bike. They drive toward the hospital, heading down an ambulance ramp to an underground receiving area.
SARAH: Open it or he'll be dead before he hits the The attendants' adrenaline levels just went off the scale. The first attendant shakes him head no. The amperage here is really high. The second attendant keys the intercom switch.
2ND ATTENDANT: There's no way, Connor. Let him go. Silberman's face is the color of suet.
SILBERMAN: It won't work, Sarah. You're no killer. I don't believe you'd do it. Her voice is a deadly cold hiss.
SARAH: You're already dead, Silberman. Everybody here dies. You know I believe that. So don't fuck with me!
SILBERMAN: Open the goddamn door! The attendants looks at one another. One of them hits the solenoid button. The far door unlocks. The nearer, barred door must be unlocked manually. One of the attendants cautiously approaches. Nervously unlocks it.
SARAH: Step back!
SARAH: Down on the floor! Now! They comply. She comes through with Silberman, giving them a wide berth. Starts backing down the hall away from them, still holding her hostage. She's actually pulling this off. third orderly waiting just around the corner. He's poised, ready to jump her when she comes abreast of him. ON SARAH backing up. She reaches the corner. The third attendant lunges, grabbing her syringe-hand. Sarah spins on the orderly and catches him across the throat with the nightstick. He loses interest fast, dropping to his knees and gagging. Silberman pulls away, screaming at the top of his lungs
SILBERMAN: Get her! They scramble up as Sarah takes off like a shot around the corner. One of them hits the panic button and ALARMS begin to sound. attendant inside the nurses' station when the alarms shriek through the halls. It reaches into its chest and pulls out the 9mm pistol. Heads for the security entrance. past us, her bare feet slapping on the cold tiles. The orderlies charge after her. She's like an animal in a maze. She turns the corner, glancing off the wall, and sprints on without slowing. She reaches a steel door. Tries it. Locked. Footsteps like a drum solo behind her. She fumbles with Douglas' keys, breathing hard. Jams the master in. The orderlies are bearing down on her at full tilt. Sarah gets the door open. Dives through. Slams it. She turns a deadbolt knob just as the first orderly grabs the latch on the other side. He's too late. Sarah sees them beyond the window, fumbling with their keys. door is between her and the corridors of the ward beyond. She sprints to the walls of bars, jams her key into the door. She unlocks and pulls open this door just as she hears the latch of the one she just came through being unlocked. She flings herself frantically through the barred door as the first orderly comes through behind her. She slams the bars shut. CLANG. Her keys are dangling from the lock on the other side from her. The orderly is racing at her, white-lipped with rage. She reaches back through the bars, turns the key, and purposefully snaps it off in the lock. An instant later the big orderly slams against the door, grabbing through the bars for her as she dances back just out of reach. He lunges against the steel bars, unbelievably pissed off. Sarah takes off running, looking back at the frustrated orderlies. They're shouting at each other, unable to fit their keys into the The broken-off key tip makes it impossible to get their keys in. Silberman shouts at them.
SILBERMAN: Go around, goddamnit! Go around!! The orderlies run back the way they came, and along a cross-corridor to another set of doors. Now she's home-free. At a full-tilt sprint, she's nearly there when the elevator doors part. TERMINATOR steps out. his head swivels to face her. Sarah reacts, stricken by the image from her worst nightmares. Her eyes go wide as momentum carries her forward. Her bare feet slip on the slick tile. She slams to the floor, staring up at the leather-clad figure with the shotgun. She loses all semblance of courage and some of her sanity. She's not even aware that she is screaming, or what would be screaming if she could get the breath to do it. In slowed-down dream-time, Sarah scrambles back along the floor like a crab, spinning and clawing her way to her feet along the wall. She runs like the wind, like in her nightmare. If she looked back she would have seen John step warily out of the corridor behind Terminator. John, however, catches a glimpse of the fleeing Sarah and figures out instantly what happened.
JOHN: Mom!! Wait! Sarah doesn't hear. She has clicked fully into her own nightmare. They take off running after Sarah. reaches an intersection with a cross-corridor a white-clad figure blurs from that corridor. The orderly hits her in a flying tackle. She skids across the floor, shrieking and struggling. The other two orderlies leap into the fray.
SARAH: No! Help me! Goddamnit, it's gonna kill us She is shouting, pleading, trying to get them to understand what is coming. They grab her thrashing arms and legs. They don't even look where the out-of-control woman is pointing. back along the corridor. They have pinned her to the cold tiles, a ring of faces above her. Silberman leans down to her, holding a syringe with a heavy dose of trank. Sarah cranes her neck and sees the dark silhouette of Terminator coming up behind them. It is exactly her nightmare. She screams in utter hopelessness. Terminator, holding the shotgun in one hand, reaches down and grabs one of the orderlies with his other hand. He hurls the 200-pound guys against the far wall of the corridor. SMACK! He drops to the The other two orderlies react instantly, leaping onto the intruder. Terminator seems to disappear for a moment under the two big guys. Then there is an explosion of white-clad figures, as the orderlies are flung outward like they stepped on a land mine. One crashes through a window of safety glass and is caught before a two-story fall by the outer steel bars. The other crashes through an office door, splintering it into kindling. Silberman has jumped to hold Sarah. He is grabbed by a roll of skin at the back of his neck and lifted like a cat. The doctor feel his feet pedaling above the ground. He looks into the expressionless face. And it hit him. Sarah was right. this guy isn't human. He feels the fabric of reality crumbling. Then he feels himself flying through the air. The wall smacks him, then the floor kicks him in the face. He decides to lie there a Sarah blinks, staring up at the figure looming over her. John kneels next to her.
JOHN: Mom, are you okay? She looks from Terminator to John. Back to Terminator. Is this a nightmare? Or has she finally gone truly bad? Incredibly, Terminator politely reaches his hand down to her, offering to help her up. The last thing she ever expected to see.
TERMINATOR: Come with me if you want to live. The orderlies are stirring.
JOHN: It's all right, Mom. He's here to help. Sarah, is a daze, takes the huge hand in her shaking fingers. Terminator lifts her to her feet. walls of bars. John doesn't know what we know, but he knows something's not right with this guy. Terminator turns to follow John's gaze. The T-1000 had its pistol in its hand, at its side. Terminator pushes John behind him. They start backing up. Its body divides like jello around the bars. As it squeezes itself through like metal playdough, its surface reforms perfectly on our side. We see it deform and squeeze through like a viscous paste forced past an obstacle. Silberman has recovered enough to be sitting up and watching this. That faint snapping sound is his mind. There is a CLANK and we see that the guard's gun has caught against the bars. the only solid object. The T-1000 turns its wrist and tries again, slipping the gun endwise through the gap. Terminator grabs John by the seat of his pants and hooks him up onto his back. John grabs him around the neck. Terminator raises the shotgun and starts backing up.
TERMINATOR: Go! Run! Sarah doesn't need to be told twice. T-1000 walks toward them, opening fire with the Browning Hi-Power. Terminator straight-arms the 12-guage like a pistol and FIRES. The stunned orderlies flop face down on the floor as the corridor is filled with high-velocity lead. One of them, stupidly running for the cross-corridor, gets hit by the T-1000. Terminator is hammered by several slugs, and the T-1000 is cratered by two buckshots hits. It staggers, but comes on. In the craters we see bright mercury before they close and reseal, disappearing in a Sarah is already at the elevator. Terminator and John pile in and John slaps the button for "Garage Level". The doors start to close. T-1000 clears the corner. Terminator slams John and Sarah back against the side walls as the T-1000 charges at them, rapid firing the Browning. The rounds hit the steel doors as they close. T-1000 keeps pumping them at the closing gap. are punching holes in the other side. back. The doors close. K-WHAM! The T-1000 hits them a split second later. The elevator hasn't moved yet. SSWWIKK! open. Terminator jams the shotgun through the widening gap. Punches the muzzle right INTO T-1000's face BOOM!! is hurtled back. The doors close. The car descends. into two doughy masses lying on the shoulders, reforms quickly. There is no trace of the injury. It sees the closed door and jams its hands between them, its fingertips becoming pry-bars. It pulls the doors apart with inhuman strength It falls two floors and. Terminator, reloading the shotgun, looks up. Sarah grabs the .45 from his waistband and aims it at the ceiling.
SARAH: Out of the car!! The patrol guy is thinking what he can try when BLAM! she puts a round through the glass next to his head.
SARAH: RIGHT NOW! The door opens and the guy is coming out with his hands up as Terminator arrives. The cyborg flings the rent-a-cop out of the way and slides behind the wheel. Sarah gets John into the back seat and dives into the front passenger seat as tires on the slick ramp. Terminator hands the shotgun over his shoulder to John and tells him to reload. John pulls some shells from the pocket of his army jacket and starts feeding them in. Terminator power backward up the ramp, scraping along one wall, barely in control. Because. This guy won't quit. Shifting from chrome mode to cop-form as it It sprints up the ramp after the retreating car. T-1000 is gaining. it, drops the other out, and slaps in the new one. Cocks the slide. The car backs along the service driveway toward the security gate. John hands the shot gun back to Terminator. He leans out the window and takes aim at the pursuer. The T-1000's face is right in the headlights. visible in the hole, which then closes. The car crashes backward through the security barricade.
RIGHT NOW!: The door opens and the guy is coming out with his hands up as Terminator arrives. The cyborg flings the rent-a-cop out of the way and slides behind the wheel. Sarah gets John into the back seat and dives into the front passenger seat as 78A Terminator slams the car into reverse and punches it, lighting up the tires on the slick ramp. Terminator hands the shotgun over his shoulder to John and tells him to reload. John pulls some shells from the pocket of his army jacket and starts feeding them in. Terminator power backward up the ramp, scraping along one wall, barely in control. Because. 79 The T-1000 is running at them out of the inferno below. This guy won't quit. Shifting from chrome mode to cop-form as it It sprints up the ramp after the retreating car. T-1000 is gaining. 80 Terminator hands Sarah another magazine for the .45. She snatches it, drops the other out, and slaps in the new one. Cocks the slide. The car backs along the service driveway toward the security gate. John hands the shot gun back to Terminator. He leans out the window and takes aim at the pursuer. The T-1000's face is right in the headlights. 80A Terminator fires, blowing a hole in its shoulder. Shiny liquid metal visible in the hole, which then closes. 80B Sarah, half out the passenger window, opens fire. The car crashes backward through the security barricade.
TERMINATOR: ( calmly ) Hang on.
TERMINATOR: Terminator heaves himself half out the driver's window. Sarah slaps her foot down on the throttle and steers from the passenger side. 80D T-1000, fully on the car now, holds on with one hook-hand while it slams the other into the back window, sweeping away the glass and missing John by inches as he ducks. It draws back for another swing, lunging forward as 80E Terminator whips the shotgun over the roof of the car. Fires point-blank. Hits the T-1000's arm just above the "hand" which anchors it to the car. The 12-guage blows the arm apart, severing the hook-hand. 80F T-1000 tumbles backward off the accelerating car. John looks out the back window, his eyes wide. He sees the T-1000 roll to his feet and continue running. But he's dropping way behind now. Sarah has the car floored and the liquid-metal killer won't catch them on foot. 80G John watches, in awe, as the "crowbar hand", stuck into the trunk right in front of him, reverts to the neutral polyalloy. a kind of think mercury. The gray metal slides off the trunk of the car and falls onto the road to lie there in a quivering blob. 80H The car speeds off into the night. REVERSE on the T-1000, walking now, coming right up into closeup, watching the tail lights recede. It looks down. 80I ANGLE ON BLACKTOP, tight on the liquid metal blob. Next to it is the T-1000's shiny cop shoe. The mercury blob crawls and rejoins the main mass, disappearing into the "shoe".
JOHN: Can you see anything?
TERMINATOR: Sarah looks at Terminator, still not quite believing this is happening. But this is a different Sarah than the waitress of 1984. She spends only a second or two dealing with the unbelievable. Then she turns to John in the back seat.
JOHN: Sarah looks at Terminator, still not quite believing this is happening. But this is a different Sarah than the waitress of 1984. She spends only a second or two dealing with the unbelievable. Then she turns to John in the back seat.
SARAH: You okay? He nods. She reaches for John and we think she's going to hug him. She starts to rub her hands over him and we realize she's checking for injuries, very clinically the way a vet checks a dog for broken bones. He pulls away from her. He hates her always checking him, treating him like he might break, like some piece of rare china.
JOHN: I said I was okay. Sarah looks at him, exasperated and stern.
SARAH: It was stupid of you to go there. John stares at her, surprised.
SARAH: Goddamnit, John, you have to be smarter than that. You're too important! You can't risk yourself, not even for me, do you understand? I can take care of myself. I was doing fine. Jesus, John. You almost got yourself killed. We see his chin quiver. He's a tough kid, but all he really wants is for her to love him. He hasn't had enough years on the planet yet to be the man of steel she demands.
JOHN: I. had to get you out of the place. I'm sorry, I. His face crumples. He starts to cry. Sarah gives him a cold stare.
SARAH: Stop it! Right now! You can't cry, John. Other kids can afford to cry. You can't. He's trying to be brave, he really is. Terminator turns and sees the water leaking from his eyes. It doesn't make and sense to him.
TERMINATOR: What is wrong with your eyes? John turns away, ashamed. Sarah lets her breath out, realizing how keyed up she is. She turns to Terminator, giving him a wary once- So what's your story?
SARAH: So what's your story?
SILBERMAN: . it was all true and we're all going to die and the changed, I saw him change!! It's quite pathetic. A nurse shoots him up with a sedative. They lead him away. It slips into its cruiser and drives off into the night.
SARAH: This T-1000. what happens when you shoot it?
TERMINATOR: Ballistic penetration shocks it, but only for a few seconds. Sarah thinks about that. Then:
SARAH: Can it be destroyed?
TERMINATOR: They ride along in silence for a few seconds. Sarah sees something up ahead, some lonely neon in the blackness.
SARAH: Pull in here. We have to ditch this car.
SARAH: You look like handmade shit.
TERMINATOR: So do you.
TERMINATOR: I have detailed files on human anatomy. Sarah stares into his face, inches away, fighting the pain. She doesn't like him being this close to her to begin with, let alone carving on her.
SARAH: I'll bet. Makes you a more efficient killer, holes. Sarah and John help pull it off, revealing Terminator's broad, muscular back beneath. WIDER. John and Sarah stare in amazement. There are at least twenty bullet holes in him. Back. Arms. Legs. Fortunately they're all 9mm. The holes are small and the damage cosmetic.
TERMINATOR: CUT TO:
JOHN: Does it hurt?
TERMINATOR: I sense injuries. The data could be called TIGHT ON SARAH AND TERMINATOR. Sarah starts washing the bullet holes in his broad back with alcohol.
SARAH: Will these heal up? Terminator nods. She reaches into the bloody wounds with pliers and finds the copper-jacketed bullets, flattening against the armored endoskeleton. Pulls them out. They CLINK one by one into a glass.
SARAH: That's good. Because if you can't pass for human, you won't be much good to us. She concentrates on removing the slugs. CLINK. CLINK.
JOHN: How long do you live? I mean, last?
TERMINATOR: A hundred and twenty years on my existing power cell. Sarah nods, pulling out another slug. CLINK. The glass nearly full of flattened bullets. She begins to sew the holes closed with a few wire sutures. John watches in quiet amazement, the two warriors calmly fixing each other.
JOHN: Can you learn? So you can be. you know. More human. Not such a dork all the time. Terminator turns towards him.
TERMINATOR: My CPU is a neural-net processor. a learning computer. But Skynet presets the switch to "read-only" when we are sent out alone.
SARAH: ( cynical ) Doesn't want you thinking too much, huh?
TERMINATOR: Can we reset the switch?
JOHN: Can we reset the switch?
TERMINATOR: Now open the port cover. She wipes away the blood and uses the garage-mechanic's air tools to unscrew the port cover. taken from the washroom. Sarah and John are standing behind him. Her hands are covered with blood, like a surgeon's.
TERMINATOR: Hold the CPU by its base tab. Pull. Following the instructions, she reaches in with a pair of tweezers and PULLS there is a BURST OF STATIC and the screen goes BLACK.
JOHN: Can you see the pin switch? She ignores him. See looks at Terminator. The back at the chip. Then she sets it on the work table and picks up a small sledge hammer. John realizes what she is about to do. Dives at her as the sledge is whistling down.
JOHN: He slaps his hand down over the chip. Sarah barely stops the sledge before smashing his fingers.
SARAH: Out of the way, John!
JOHN: No! Don't kill him!
SARAH: It, John. Not him. It.
JOHN: Alright, it! We need it! John keeps his hand right where it is.
SARAH: We're better off by ourselves.
JOHN: But it's the only proof we have to the future. about the war and all that.
SARAH: I don't trust it! These things are hard to kill, John, believe me, I know. We may never have this opportunity again.
JOHN: Look, Mom, if I'm supposed to ever be this great leader, you should start listening to my leadership ideas once in a while. 'Cause if you won't, nobody else will. Smart kid. He's got her. She nods, reluctantly. He palms the chip and studies it minutely. It is now in "write" mode. Then he grimaces as he inserts the wafer back into the slot in Terminator's skull. forms. Sarah and John stands behind him in the mirror.
TERMINATOR: Was there a problem? John glances sheepishly at Sarah, Then smiles at Terminator.
JOHN: No problem. None whatsoever.
JOHN: Are we learning yet? fairly clean. It doesn't fit her too well, but it's better than the stuff from the hospital. She's still barefoot. The sun, which she hasn't seen in months, hurts her eyes, Terminator and John pull up in the pickup. She gets in.
SARAH: Just head south.
SARAH: Keep it under sixty-five. We can't afford to be pulled over. Terminator backs off the throttle slightly.
TERMINATOR: No, no, no. You gotta listen to the way people talk. See, you don't say like "Affirmative" or some shit like that. You say. no problemo. Terminator nods, filing away the information. Sarah is ignoring the lesson, lost in thought.
JOHN: No, no, no. You gotta listen to the way people talk. See, you don't say like "Affirmative" or some shit like that. You say. no problemo. Terminator nods, filing away the information. Sarah is ignoring the lesson, lost in thought.
JOHN: It someone comes off to you with an attitude, you say "eat me". if you wanna shine them on, it's "Hasta la vista, baby".
TERMINATOR: "Hasta la vista, baby"?
JOHN: Yeah, or "later, dickwad." Or if someone gets upset you say "chill out." Like that. Or you can do combinations.
TERMINATOR: Chill out, dickwad.
JOHN: That's great! See, you're getting it.
TERMINATOR: No problemo.
SARAH: You got any cash? John pulls what's left of his Ready-Teller money from his pocket.
JOHN: Only a couple hundred bucks. I'll give you Sarah grabs all of it. Peels off a twenty, hands it to John.
SARAH: Get some food. She opens the truck door and steps out. John turns to Terminator.
JOHN: No sense of humor.
JOHN: And that's another thing. You could lighten up a bit, yourself. This severe routine is getting old. Smile once in a while.
TERMINATOR: Yeah. Smile. You know. People smile, right? Goes to the order window.
JOHN: Yeah. Smile. You know. People smile, right? Goes to the order window.
JOHN: ( smiling broadly ) Hi. Nice place you got here. How's business?
WINDOW WOMAN: ( stone-faced ) Gimme a break.
JOHN: ( to Terminator ) Okay. Bad example. Over there, look.
JOHN: Like that. TERMINATOR POV ( DIGITIZED ) The real-time image continues while a replay of one of the guys grinning runs in a window. It expands, so that the guy's mouth fills the window. Replays again in slow motion. A vector-graphic of the lips smiling appears, along with an array of symbolic data. Terminator tries it. The result is dismal. A rictus-like curling of the lip. Terminator's next effort is a marginal improvement.
JOHN: I don't know, maybe you could practice in front of a mirror or something.
FIRST KID: You're dead!
SECOND KID: Am not!
FIRST KID: Are so! John and Terminator watch them rolling on the ground in a fight to the death. Sarah rounds the front of the truck, and sees the kids. John sighs, solemn. He looks up at the cyborg.
JOHN: We're not gonna make it, are we? People, I It is in your nature to destroy yourselves. John nods, depressed.
TERMINATOR: It is in your nature to destroy yourselves. John nods, depressed.
JOHN: Yeah. Drag, huh?
SARAH: I need to know how Skynet get built. Who's The man most directly responsible is Miles Bennet Dyson, Director of Special Projects at Cyberdyne Systems Corporation.
TERMINATOR: The man most directly responsible is Miles Bennet Dyson, Director of Special Projects at Cyberdyne Systems Corporation.
SARAH: Why him?
TERMINATOR: In a few months he creates a revolutionary type of mircoprocessor.
SARAH: Then what?
TERMINATOR: In three years Cyberdyne will become the largest supplier of military computer systems. All stealth bombers are upgraded with Cyberdyne computers, becoming fully unmanned, Afterward, the fly with a perfect operational record.
SARAH: ( getting behind John ) Uh huh, great. Then those fat fucks in Washington figure, what the hell, let a computer run the whole show, right?
TERMINATOR: ( starting the engine, backing out ) The Skynet funding bill is passed. The system goes on-line August 4th, 1997. Human decisions are removed from strategic defense. Skynet begins to learn, at a geometric rate. It becomes self-aware at 2:14 a.m. eastern time, August 29. In a panic, they try to pull the plug.
SARAH: And Skynet fights back. They accelerate back onto the highway.
TERMINATOR: Yes. It launches its ICBMs against their targets in Russia.
SARAH: Why attack Russia?
TERMINATOR: Because Skynet knows the Russian counter-strike will remove its enemies here.
SARAH: ( beat, then ) How much do you know about Dyson?
TERMINATOR: I have detailed files.
SARAH: I want to know everything. What he looks like. Where he lives. Everything.
TARISSA: You going to work all day?
DYSON: I'm sorry, baby. This thing is just kicking my ass. I thought we had it with this one. He points to a metal box on his desk, about two feet long. As assembly of small cubes. It looks like a dinosaur version of Terminator's CPU.
DYSON: . but the output went to shit after three seconds. I'm thinking now it's the way I'm matrixing the command hierarchies.
TARISSA: You need a break. You'll see it clear when you come back.
DYSON: I can't
TARISSA: Miles, it's Sunday. You promised to take the kids to Raging Waters today.
DYSON: Oh. I can't, honey. I'm on a roll here. He takes her hands. We see a childlike excitement in his face. He wants so badly to share the almost orgasmic thrill of discovery, the satisfaction of creation.
DYSON: Baby, this thing is going to blow 'em all away. It's a neural-net process
TARISSA: I know. You told me. It's a neural-net processor. It thinks and learns like we do. It's superconducting at room temperature. Other computer are pocket calculators by But why is that so goddamn important, Miles? I really need to know, 'cause I feel like I'm going crazy here, sometimes.
DYSON: I'm sorry, honey, it's just that I'm thiiis He holds up his thumb and index finger. a fraction of an inch apart. She picks up the prototype. It doesn't look like much.
DYSON: Imagine a jetline with a pilot that never makes a mistake, never gets tired, never shows up to work with a hangover. Meet the pilot.
TARISSA: Why did you marry me, Miles? Why did we have these two children? You don't need us. Your heart and your mind are in here. But it doesn't love you like we do. He takes the anodized box from her hands and sets it down. Then he puts his hands on her shoulders and kisses her gently. She acquiesces to his kiss.
DYSON: I'm sorry. Tarissa glances over his shoulder. She nods her head toward the doorway to the study. Dyson turns and sees their two kids standing there. Danny ( 6 ) and Blythe ( 4 ) look rumpled and adorable in their PJs. Dyson wilts at their hopeful expressions.
TARISSA: How about spending some time with your other Dyson grins. The forces of darkness have lost this round. He holds out his hands and his kids run to him, cheering.
SARAH: ( to Terminator and John ) Stay in the truck.
SARAH: ( in Spanish ) Enrique? You here?
SALCEDA: You pretty jumpy, Connor. His fierce face breaks into a broad grin. The shotgun drops to his side as he walks toward her. When he reaches her he hugs her, then steps back.
SALCEDA: ( in Spanish ) Good to see you, Connor. I knew you'd make it back here sooner or later.
SALCEDA: Oye, Big John! Que pasa? Who's your very large He's cool, Enrique. He's. uh. this is my Uncle Bob. Uncle Bob, this is Enrique. Terminator smiles. Sort of. Salceda squints at him,
JOHN: ( perfect Spanish ) He's cool, Enrique. He's. uh. this is my Uncle Bob. ( to Terminator, in English ) Uncle Bob, this is Enrique.
SALCEDA: Hmmm. Uncle Bob, huh? Okay. Yolanda. Get out here, we got company. And bring some fucking tequila! A thin Guatemalan KID, FRANCO, eighteen or so, comes out of the trailer with the AK-47, followed by Salceda's wife, YOLANDA. She has THREE younger children with her, from a five-year-old GIRL, JUANITA, to a year-and-half-old BOY. She waves at John. They exchange greetings in Spanish. They seem like nice people. Terminator looks down at John, next to him. He says quietly.
TERMINATOR: Uncle Bob?
SALCEDA: ( to Sarah ) So, Sarahlita, you getting famous, you know that? All over the goddamn TV.
SALCEDA: Honey, take Pacolito. Thanks, baby. She hands him the tequila and takes the child. Salceda takes a long pull from the Cuervo bottle.
SALCEDA: ( to Terminator )
SARAH: I just came for my stuff. And I need clothes, food, and one of your trucks.
SALCEDA: ( grinning ) Hey, how about the fillings out of my fucking teeth while you're at it?
SARAH: Now, Enrique. You two are on weapons detail.
JOHN: Hook it on. Terminator hooks the chain onto the towhook on the back of the tractor. John hits the throttle and the Cat churns its treads, pulling some massive load. A six-by-eight foot sheet of steel plate moves slowly under six inches of sand. John drags it far enough to reveal. a rectangular hole in the ground. Like the mouth of a tomb. The kid drops down from the tractor and walks to the hole.
JOHN: One thing about my mom. she always plans From inside the "tomb". Sunlight slashes down into a cinder-block room, less than six feet wide but over twenty long. Sand spills down the steps. The walls are lined with guns. John precedes Terminator into Sarah's weapons cache. Rifles, pistols, rocket launchers, mortars, RPGs, radio gear. At the far end, boxes containing ammo, grenades, etc. are stacked to the ceiling. Terminator gets real alert. Scanning, wondering where to begin. He picks up a MAC-10 machine pistol. Racks the bolt.
TERMINATOR: Yeah, I thought you'd like this place.
JOHN: Yeah, I thought you'd like this place.
SALCEDA: This is the best truck, but the water pump is blown. You got the time to change it out?
SARAH: Yeah. I'm gonna wait till dark to cross the Enrique, it's dangerous for you here. You get out tonight, too, okay?
SALCEDA: Yeah, Saralita. Sure. Just drop by any time and totally fuck up my She slaps him on the shoulder.
JOHN: See, I grew up in places like this, so I just thought it was how people lived. riding around in helicopters. Learning how to blow shit up. John grabs an AK-47 and racks the bolt with a practiced action. Inspects the receiver for wear. Doesn't like what he sees. Puts is back. His movement are efficient. Professional. Uninterested.
JOHN: Then, when Mom got busted I got put in a regular school. The other kids were, like, into Nintendo. Terminator has found a Vietnam-era "blooper" M-79 grenade launcher. A very crude but effective weapon. He opens the breech and inspects the bore.
JOHN: Are you ever afraid? Terminator pauses for a second. The thought never occurred to him. He searches him mind for the answer.
TERMINATOR: Terminator slings the M-79 and starts looking for the grenades.
JOHN: Not even of dying?
TERMINATOR: You don't feel any emotion about it one way or the other?
JOHN: You don't feel any emotion about it one way or the other?
TERMINATOR: No. I have to stay functional until my mission is complete. Then it doesn't matter. John is idly spinning a Sig Saur 9mm pistol on his finger. backwards and forwards like Bat Masteron.
JOHN: Yeah. I have to stay functional too. "I'm too important". Terminator pulls back a canvas tarp, revealing a squat, heavy weapon with six barrels clustered in a blunt cylinder. Chain-ammo is fed from a canister sitting next to it. A G.E. MINI-GUN. The most fearsome anti-personnel weapon of the Vietnam era. Terminator hefts it. Looks at John as if to say "Can I? Please?"
JOHN: It's definitely you.
JOHN: There was this one guy that was kinda cool. He taught me engines. Hold this a second. Mom screwed it up, of course. Sooner or later she'd always tell them about Judgment Day and me being this world leader and that's be all she wrote. John thinks he's being causal, but his longing for some kind of parental connection is obvious.
TERMINATOR: Torque wrench please.
JOHN: Here. I wish I coulda met my real dad.
TERMINATOR: You will.
JOHN: Yeah. I guess so. My mom says when I'm, like, 45, I think, I send him back through time to 1984. But right now he hasn't even been born yet. Man, is messes with your head. Where's that other bolt? Thanks. Mom and him were only together for one night, but she still loves him, I guess. I see her crying sometimes. She denies it totally, of course. Like she says she got something in her eye. They crawl out from under the truck into the bright sunlight.
TERMINATOR: Why do you cry?
JOHN: You mean people? I don't know. We just cry. You know. When it hurts.
TERMINATOR: Pain causes it?
JOHN: Uh-unh, no, it's different. It's when there's nothing wrong with you but you hurt anyway. You get it?
TERMINATOR: Terminator gets into the Bronco and turns the ignition key and the engine catches with a roar.
JOHN: Alriight!! My man!
TERMINATOR: No problemo. John grins and does a victorious thumbs up. Terminator imitates the gesture awkwardly. John laughs and makes him get out of the truck, to try the move again. is a soundless pantomime as John is trying to show some other gestures to the cyborg. Trying to get him to walk more casually. John walks, then Terminator tries it, then John gestures wildly, talking very fast. explaining the fundamental principles of cool. They try it again. Continued ad lib as we hear:
CUT TO;: A110 EXT. ROAD - DAY A111 IN THE CRUISER. The T-1000 sits inside. John's notes and letters are
SARAH: . if we are ever separated, and can't make contact, go to Enrique's airstrip. I'll rendezvous with you there. T-1000 whips around and rewinds the tape, replaying the last section. It then snaps up the envelope of photos we saw earlier. ECU on envelope. We see the postmark: "Charon Mesa, Calif." TIGHT ON T-1000 staring at the postmark on the envelope. It glances up at the sound of crunching gravel. In the rear-view it sees a BIKE COP pulling onto the shoulder behind it. The big KAWASAKI 1100 idles up next to the T-1000, still seated in the cruiser.
BIKE COP: Howdy. I saw you pulled over here earlier. Everything okay?
SALCEDA: She said you go south with him. . tonight, like you planned. She will meet you tomorrow in. But John is moving, running after her.
JOHN: Mommm!! Wait!! after her. yelling. Can't hear his words. She looks in the rear- view mirror but doesn't slow down.
JOHN: "No fate." No fate but what we make. My father told her this. I mean I made him memorize it, up in the future, as a message to her Never mind. Okay, the whole thing goes "The future is not set. There is no fate but what we make for ourselves."
TERMINATOR: She intends to change the future somehow.
JOHN: I guess, yeah Oh shit!!
TERMINATOR: Yeah, gotta be! Miles Dyson! She's gonna blow him away! John motions to Terminator and breaks into a run.
JOHN: Yeah, gotta be! Miles Dyson! She's gonna blow him away! John motions to Terminator and breaks into a run.
JOHN: Come on. Let's go. LET'S GO!!
TERMINATOR: This is tactically dangerous.
JOHN: Drive faster.
TERMINATOR: The T-1000 has the same files that I do. It could anticipate this move and reacquire you at Dyson's house.
JOHN: I don't care. We've gotta stop her.
TERMINATOR: Killing Dyson might actually prevent the war.
JOHN: I don't care!! There's gotta be another way. Haven't you learned anything?! Haven't you figured out why you can't kill people? Terminator is still stumped.
JOHN: Look, maybe you don't care if you live or die. But everybody's not like that! Okay?! We have feelings. We hurt. We're afraid. You gotta learn this stuff, man, I'm not kidding. It's PANNING as they pass, revealing the lights of the city ahead.
POP!!: back, utterly shocked. and spins to see the huge hole blown through the window behind him. This saves him as K-THUMP! the second shot blows the top of his high-backed chain into an explosion of stuffing an inch from his head. Instinctively he dives to the carpet as BLAM BLAM BLAM rounds blast through the window, tearing into his desk and computer, blowing his keyboard into shrapnel. 132C With the monitor screen blown out, the room is in darkness. Sarah can't see Dyson now, down behind his desk. She puts round after round into the heavy desk, blasting one side of it into kindling. 132D Dyson, scared out of his mind, has his face jammed against the carpet, terrified to move. He sees his kids in the hall.
DYSON: Run, kids! Go! Run! kids running toward her and grabs them in her arms. Down the hall, in the dark study, she sees Dyson on the floor amid the splinters and shrapnel of the continuing fusillade.
TARISSA: Miles! Oh my God!!
MILES: Stay back!! components shower down on him. He looks desperately toward the door, but knows he'd be totally exposed. He'd never make it. She throws it down and draws her .45 smoothly from a shoulder base. She starts toward the house, snapping back the slide on the pistol, chambering a round. She is in a fast, purposeful walk, keeping her eyes fixed on the target. She is utterly determined to kill this man. Sarah's feet as she strides toward him. He tenses to make a break for the door. Sarah raises the pistol, eyes riveted ahead, controlling her breathing. Dyson springs up in a full-tilt sprint. She tracks him. He hooks a foot on the cord of a toppled disk drive. BOOM! Her shot blows apart a lamp where his head was. He hits the floor hard, but keeps moving, scrambling forward. Crunch of glass behind his as Sarah's dark form is framed in the blown-out floor-to-ceiling window. Dyson leaps toward the hall. BOOM! Her second shot spins him. He hits the floor in the hallway. Tarissa is screaming. Dyson struggles forward, stunned. There is a .45-caliber hole clean through his left shoulder. He smears the wall with blood as he staggers up. Looking back, he sees the implacable figure behind him, coming on. He topples through a doorway as BOOM! BOOM! Shots blowing away the molding where he just was.
JOHN: Shit, we're too late!
TARISSA: Danny! DANNY!
DANNY: Danny is pulling at Dyson, crying and screaming, as his father tries to stagger forward. Tarissa drops Blythe and runs back for Dyson, grabbing him. Sarah looms behind them with the pistol aimed.
SARAH: Don't fucking move! Don't FUCKING MOVE!! Get on the floor, bitch! Now!! Fucking down!
NOW!!: Sarah is crazy-eyed now, shaking with the intensity of the moment. The kill has gone bad, with screaming kids and the wife involved. things she never figured on. Tarissa drops to the knees, terrified as she looks into the muzzle of the gun. Blythe runs to Dyson and hugs him, wailing.
BLYTHE: Don't hurt my father!
SARAH: ( screaming ) Shut up, kid! Get out of the way!!
DYSON: ( gasping ) Please. let. the kids. go.
SARAH: Shut up! SHUT UP!! Motherfucker! It's all your fault! IT'S YOUR FAULT!! We see her psyching herself to pull the trigger. needing now to hate this man she doesn't know. It's a lot harder face-to-face. She is bathed in sweat, and it runs into her eyes. Blinking, she wipes it fast with one hand, then gets it back on the gun. The .45 is TIGHT ON SARAH as we see the forces at war behind her eyes. She looks into the faces of Dyson, Tarissa, Blythe, Danny. Sarah takes a sharp breath and all the muscles in her arms contract as she tenses to fire. But her finger won't do it. She lowers the gun very slowly. It drops to her side in one hand. All the breath and energy seems to go out of her. She weakly raises her other hand in a strange gesture, like "Stay where you are, don't move". As if, should they move, the fragile balance might tip back the other way. She backs away from them slowly, panting. It's as if she's backing away in terror from what she almost did. She reaches a wall and slumps against it. Slides down to her knees. The gun falls limply from her fingers. She rests her cheek against the wall. Terminator steps inside. John grabs his sleeve and pushes past him. He scopes out the situation in two seconds. Sarah, the gun, the sobbing family. John moves to Sarah while Terminator checks Dyson. John kneels in front of his mother. She raises her head to look at him. He sees the tears spilling down her cheeks,
JOHN: Mom? You okay?
SARAH: I couldn't. oh, God. You. came here. to stop me?
JOHN: Uh huh. She reaches out and takes his shoulder suddenly, surprising him. drawing him to her. She hugs him and a great sob wells up deep inside her, from a spring she had thought long dry. She hugs him fiercely as the sobs wrack her. John clutches her shoulders. It is all he ever wanted.
JOHN: It's okay. It'll by okay. We'll figure it I love you, John. I always have.
SARAH: I love you, John. I always have.
JOHN: I know, Mom. I know. TARISSA looks around at the bizarre tableau. Terminator has wordlessly ripped open Dyson's shirt and examined the wound.
TERMINATOR: Clean penetration. No shattered bone. Compression should control the loss of blood. He takes Tarissa's hands and presses them firmly over the entrance and exit wounds.
TERMINATOR: Do you have bandages?
DYSON: In the bathroom. Danny, can you get them for Danny nods and runs down the hall. John disengages from Sarah. She wipes her tears, the instinct to toughen up taking over again. But the healing moment has had its effect, nevertheless. John walks toward Dyson and Terminator.
DYSON: Who are you people? John draws the Biker's knife from Terminator's boot. Hands it to him.
JOHN: Show him. Terminator takes off his jacket to reveal bare arms. John takes Blythe by the hands and leads her down the hall, away from what is about to happen. below the elbow. In one smooth motion, Terminator cuts all the way around his arm. With a second cut, he splits the skin of the forearm from elbow to wrist. TERMINATOR grasps the skin and strips is off his forearm like a surgeon rips off a rubber glove. It comes off with a sucking rip, leaving a bloody skeleton. But the skeleton is made of bright metal, and is laced with hydraulic actuators. The fingers are as finely crafted as watch parts. they flex into a fist and extend. Terminator holds it up, palm out, in almost the exact position of the one in the vault at Cyberdyne, HOLD ON DYSON reacting to the servo-hand in front of him. He's seen one of these before. Tarissa is screaming now, but he doesn't hear her.
DYSON: My God.
TERMINATOR: Now listen to me very carefully.
DYSON: I feel like I'M gonna throw up. He looks around at them, clutching the table like he's about to blow away. His face, his posture, his ragged voice express soul-wrenching terror. This is a man ripped out of normal life into their grim world. His voice is pleading.
DYSON: You're judging me on thing's I haven't even done yet. Jesus. How were we supposed to know? Sarah speaks from the shadows behind them. Dyson turns to find her looking right at him.
SARAH: Yeah. Right. How were you supposed to know? Fucking men. all you know how to do is thrust into the world with your. fucking ideas and your weapons. Did you know that every gun in the world is named after a man? Colt, Browning, Smith, Thompson, Kalashnikov. all men. Men built the hydrogen bomb, not women. men like you thought it up. You're so creative. You don't know what it's like to really create something. to create a life. To feel it growing inside you. All you know how to create is death. you fucking bastards.
JOHN: Mom, Mom, we need to be more constructive here. I don't see this as a gender-related issue. She's still tense. We still have to figure out how to stop it all from happening. Right?
TARISSA: But I thought. aren't we changing things? I mean. right now? Changing the way it goes?
DYSON: ( seizing on that ) That's right! There's no way I'm going to finish the new processor now. Forget it. I'm out of it. I'm quitting Cyberdyne tomorrow. I'll sell real estate, I don't care,,,
SARAH: ( coldly ) That's not good enough.
DYSON: Look, whatever you want me to do, I'll do. I just want my kids to have a chance to grow up, No one must follow your work.
TERMINATOR: No one must follow your work.
DYSON: ( thoughts racing ) Alright, yeah. You're right. We have to destroy the stuff at the lab, the files, disk drive. and everything I have here. Everything! I don't care.
DYSON: Do you know about the chip?
SARAH: What chip?
DYSON: They have it in a vault at Cyberdyne. It's gotta be from the other one like you.
TERMINATOR: ( to Sarah ) The CPU from the first terminator.
SARAH: Son of a bitch, I knew it!
DYSON: They told us not to ask where they got it. I thought. Japan. hell, I don't know. I didn't want to know.
SARAH: Those lying motherfuckers!
DYSON: I was scary stuff, radically advanced. It was shattered. didn't work. But it gave us ideas, It took us in new directions. things we would never have thought of. All this work is based on it.
TERMINATOR: I must be destroyed.
SARAH: ( to Dyson ) Can you get us in there, past security?
DYSON: I think so, yeah. When? Dyson looks at her, Terminator, then John. Sees his answer.
DYSON: ( he takes a breath ) Yeah, right.
TARISSA: Miles, I'm scared. Okay. But the only thing that scares me more than you going. is you not going. He nods. She's right.
SARAH: ( to Terminator ) Is it safe for them here?
TERMINATOR: ( to Tarissa ) Take your kids. Go to a hotel. Right now. Don't pack. ( to the others ) Let's go.
DYSON: Evening, Paul. These are friends of mine from out of town, I just thought I'd take them up and show them around.
GIBBONS: I'm sorry, Mr. Dyson. You know the rules about visitors in the lab. I need written authoriz K-CHAK! Gibbons is staring down the barrels of Sarah's .45 and Terminator's MAC-10.
TERMINATOR: I insist. The guard is too stunned to move. We see that Terminator is wearing his jacket and one black glove. Gibbon's eyes go to the silent alarm button on the console.
SARAH: Don't even think about it. Gibbons nods. He stays frozen. Terminator circles quickly and gets the guard out of the chair. John pulls a roll of duct-tape from his knapsack and tears off a piece.
DYSON: The vault needs two keys to open. Mine. . and one from the security station. It's in a locker but my card should access it. Here we go. They stand in front of a wide security door. A sign above reads SPECIAL PROJECTS DIVISION: AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY. Dyson zips his key-card through the scanner and the door unlatches.
MOSHIER: Honey, I'm home. He sees the desk is deserted and frowns. Figures Gibbons must be in the can, so checks that first before getting alarmed. TRACKING WITH HIM to the restroom around the corner,
MOSHIER: Hey, man, you shouldn't leave the Gibbons handcuffed to the urinal. Moshier spins on a dime and sprints to the desk where he slams down on the silent alarm button.
DYSON: What? WHAT IS IT? Dyson whips around, staring at a light flashing on the console behind Silent alarm's been tripped. It neutralizes the codes throughout the building. Nothing'll open now. We see his nerve snapping.
DYSON: Silent alarm's been tripped. It neutralizes the codes throughout the building. Nothing'll open now. We see his nerve snapping.
DYSON: We should abort.
SARAH: NO!! We're going all the way! You got that, She's right in his face. Somehow, it works for him. He nods, getting some resolve from somewhere.
GIBBONS: . multiple armed subjects. Look, I think it's the guy from that mall shootout, and the woman. yeah, her. Pretty sure. Just send everything you've got in the area
JOHN: You guys get started on the lab. I can open He tries his card. Nothing.
DYSON: No good.
TERMINATOR: Let me try mine. He unslings the M-79, pulling it over his shoulder in one motion. Sarah grabs Dyson and drags him back down the hall. Terminator opens the breach and slide in one of the fat 40mm H.E. grenades. He flips the thing closed with a snap of the wrist.
SARAH: ( yelling as she runs ) John! Fire-in-the-hole!
DYSON: Fire's set off the halo system! Here. Dyson runs to a wall cabinet and pulls out some BREATHING MASKS. He hands one to Sarah and dons the other. Then he reaches out to hand one to Terminator.
DYSON: Terminator doesn't need a mask, since is oxygen requirements are so low. He ignores Dyson as he removes his massive backpack and opens it. Dyson shrugs and tosses the mask on a desk. He turns to Sarah.
DYSON: ( yelling through the mask ) We'll have to keep these on a couple minutes, till the gas clears.
DYSON: ( to Sarah, panting ) Yeah, all that stuff! And all the disks in those offices. Especially my office. everything in my office! ( to Terminator ) These, too! This is important.
DYSON: Give me that thing a second. Terminator hands him the axe. Dyson hefts it one-handed. He turns to a lab table. on it is another prototype processor.
DYSON: I've worked for years on this thing. Swinging awkwardly but with great force he smashes the axe down onto the processor prototype, exploding it into fragments. His shoulder is agony, but he looks satisfied.
JOHN: Easy money. He whips it open, revealing a rack of keys. But the VAULT-KEY is distinctive, a long steel rectangle on a neck-chain. John grabs it and runs toward the lab.
DYSON: How do you set them off? Terminator shows him a REMOTE DETONATOR, a small transmitter with a red plunger.
TERMINATOR: Radio remote. He makes a plunger-pushing motion with his thumb and an accompanying "click" sound. Dyson nods. Just then John comes running in, holding up the key.
JOHN: I got it. Piece of cake.
SARAH: ( to Dyson and Terminator ) Go! I'll finish here.
TERMINATOR: I'll deal with the police.
JOHN: Remember what I said, you can't.
TERMINATOR: Trust me.
JOHN: And let's see what's behind door number one. Dyson nods and they turns the keys together. The vault grumbles to itself, withdrawing it locking bolts with a final KLONK! Together Dyson and John swing the door open.
JOHN: Got ol' Skynet by the ball now, Miles. Come on, let's book! Clutching the steel hand and pocketing the chip like it's a Mars bar he just bought, John runs out. Dyson follows.
JOHN: Ready to rock?
SARAH: John tosses her the metal hand. She catches it and bends to put the hand in her empty back-pack. Sarah zips the pack and starts to shuck into it. Dyson's running out of steam. The bandages at his shoulder are soaked with seeping blood. He stands in the middle of the lab, saying goodbye in his mind, looking weak and empty. Terminator strides into the lab.
TERMINATOR: Time to go. Right now. He and John head back the way they came, through security. Sarah sees that in her work, she has set the detonator down twenty feet away, near where Dyson is standing.
SARAH: Dyson, hand me the detonator. Let's go He gingerly picks up the detonator. Starts toward her. Then
JOHN: Terminator grabs him as bullets slam into his broad back. He makes it around the corner with John, out of the line of fire. 162 IN THE LAB, bullets rake over Sarah's head, smacking all around her, clanging into the machine protecting her. She can see Dyson, slumped on the floor. Debris and flying glass rain on her as the SWATs pour on the fire. The detonator is clutched in his hand. He rolls to face her, his eyes bulging from the pain of his torn-up guts.
DYSON: 162A Sarah hesitates a split second. Then she snap-rolls and fast-crawls
TERMINATOR: Get back. He pulls a grenade from the bandolier over his shoulder, and slides it into the bore. Flick his wrist. The breech snaps shut. Sarah and John have a split second to duck and cover.
TERMINATOR: Cover you ears and open you mouth. around it, EXPLODES outward. The backblast hits Terminator full force, but he strides through the smoking hole before the debris has even hit the floor.
DYSON: I don't know. how much longer. I can. hold this thing. SWAT Leader seems to see the wires, the claymores, the gas cans all around him for the first time. His eyes, visible through his gas- mask, go very wide. He spins and motions his squad back.
LEADER: Fall back!! Everybody out! Move it! OUT
NOW!: They retreat so fast they crash into the next group coming up the 166 INT. CORRIDOR Terminator reaches the main elevators. Hits the button. Sarah and John are coughing and stumbling in the choking darkness, buddy- breathing with the single mask. The doors open. They get in the elevator and head down.
JOHN: ( to Sarah ) Don't forget. It's always darkness right before. you're totally fucked.
TERMINATOR: Keep your eyes closed. Don't move. I'll be back. He slings the grenade launcher over his shoulder and walks out into the corridor. the corridor. It skids to rest in front of Terminator, throwing out a white cloud which quickly fills the corridor. mask back and forth desperately. They're scarred. This looks like corridor. They watch the boiling cloud, waiting. Totally unaffected. Terminator emerges from the smoke. Not even misty-eyed. Not what they expected.
LEADER: ( through megaphone ) Stop where you are. Lie down on the floor, face down. Down on floor, now!
LEADER: Drop him. They OPEN FIRE. The corridor is filled with CRACKING THUNDER. The rounds tear into Terminator's chest. Stomach. Face. Thighs. His leather jacket leaps and jerks as the rounds hit him. The SWATs think the guy's wearing body armor or something. They keep firing. The rounds tear into him, staggering him slightly, but he keeps You're not hitting him!
LEADER: You're not hitting him!
SWAT #1: ( getting scared ) Yes I am!
SARAH: John, get under these. Hurry! He sits against the front bulkhead of the van and she pile bullet- proof vests on top of him, completely covering him. Then she grabs two M-16s from the wall-rack and loads them. She starts on a shotgun Terminator slews the unstable van around cars and trucks which seem to be crawling. The van hits it top speed of eighty. They swerve to miss the back end of A WHITE 18-WHEEL TANKER. pistol and FIRES. The back of the can CLANGS WITH HITS. The door windows are BLOWN IN. Terminator weaves the van, trying to throw off the T-1000's aim. The unstable vehicle screeches and wobbles on the edge of control. One of the doors is kicked open. Sarah, wearing a ballistic vest, crouches in the doorway, whipping up the M-16. SHE OPENS FIRE. returns fire. The van is stitched with hits. ripping up the interior. The vests covering John are hit repeatedly. We see that Sarah has hung two Kevlar vests on the inside of the back door and she ducks behind these as bullets hit around her. She pops back out and fires in controlled bursts. The M-16 empties and she grabs another. and knocking it skidding.
DRIVER: Goddamn, are you alri on past without slowing, or even looking at him. As the truck bellows are rolls forward we see the large blue letters on the side which say "CRYOCO INC. LIQUID NITROGEN SUPPLY'. wreck. Terminator has the M-79 slung over his shoulder, the bandolier of grenades, and his .45 stuck in his waistband. John has borrowed a 12-GAUGE RIOT GUN from the SWATs. A Hispanic guy in his 50's, is getting out to help them. Terminator and John hear a CRASH and look back as the
TERMINATOR: ( to the pickup owner ) We need your truck.
JOHN: Faster! He's right on us! Terminator doesn't reply. He rapidly unslings the blooper, still around his neck, and reaches for a grenade. filling frame with chrome and lights. crabs over, sandwiching it against the center divider. The spinning chrome hubs tear into the passenger side door and the guard rail screeches along the other side. The pickup bucks and shakes insanely. It ricochets violently between the big-rig and the divider Horrible SCREECH of tortured steel. Sparks pour in sheets of fire from both sides. The windshield shatters as the door-posts buckle in. Metal and glass shower in through the side windows. The frame twists and buckles. John feels like the fillings are being shaken right out of his teeth. The wooden camper disintegrates, falling away as kindling behind T-1000 holds the wheel hard over, mercilessly grinding the pickup. The whole rig jerks and shakes with the violence of the sustained Terminator slides toward the passenger side. Keeping his foot on the gas he lifts John over him and puts him in the driver's seat.
TERMINATOR: Drive for a minute.
JOHN: Where you going?! Terminator slams the shattered windshield with the palm of his hand. Held together by the plastic laminate, the windshield flops out of its frame. It flies over the top of the truck. He turns and aims the M-79 one-handed. against the front bulkhead of the tanker, almost at the top. Liquid nitrogen pours from the opening, swept back by the 60-mph windstream. a pendulum behind the cab. Behind it the big-rig is trailing a swirling comet-tail of nitrogen vapor. It is gaining again. Terminator, still standing, opens the breech and starts to reload. ramp after him, still accelerating. It is twenty feet behind them and closing when Terminator closes the breech and FIRES. The radiator is destroyed, along with half the hood. Steam blasts out, obscuring the whole front of the truck. like some demon locomotive, the tractor-trailer pounds into the back of the pickup. Driving it right through the intersection at the bottom of the ramp, and straight toward
SHUDDER AND: 192C SCREAM. IT IS JACK-KNIFING. 192D The juggernaut bucks and shudders as the tires and smoke sideways 192E John sees what's behind him, then snaps around to see the building 192F Terminator, with one second to go, leaps from the cab
TERMINATOR: Hasta la vista, baby. spraying up into the air. They shimmer across the ground for twenty feet in all directions. Terminator lowers the gun, satisfied. He looks like he needs a vacation. Conscious but very weak. He tries the door. It's jammed. He kicks it open.
JOHN: Okay, Mom, we gotta get out now, come on. That's it. He helps her slide down from the seat of the truck. Her knees give way. John has to take a lot of her weight. He reaches in and picks up the riot gun off the seat. They hobble toward vapor. The heat of the furnaces has evaporated all the liquid liquefying. Hundreds of drops of mercury, spattered across the floor. Orange light of the enormous black-furnaces dances on liquid metal. and useless. And some leg-servos are damaged. He can barely stand. John and Sarah arrive.
TERMINATOR: We don't have much time.
JOHN: Terminator points. John and Sarah watch as 198 INSERT, T-1000 DROPLETS are creeping together. Fusing into larger blobs. These pools shiver and run together, soon forming a central 199 ON JOHN AND SARAH, realizing it's not over.
JOHN: Come on! Let's go! Terminator gets one of Sarah's arms over his shoulder and they go. BEHIND THEM, something is moving. form. hunching up from the liquid mass. Half-formed, it turns to look straight at them. John looks back in new terror as The T-1000 rises to man-height. It is still in mercury form, but its features are forming rapidly. It takes its first step after them. Sarah stumbles and they pull her up. shattered ankle joint. John's the one pulling, straining, driving them forward. They round a corner into
JOHN: Come on, Mom, you can do it! Come on!! They drag her up, and stagger on. Her leg is bathed in blood and she is deathly pale. He looks back.
TERMINATOR: Keep going. John shakes his head no. The T-1000 is almost on them.
TERMINATOR: John runs, dragging, half-carrying Sarah as best he can. She can barely stay conscious. Half-running, delirious, she stumbles and drops to her knees. John pulls but she can't rise.
RUN!: John runs, dragging, half-carrying Sarah as best he can. She can barely stay conscious. Half-running, delirious, she stumbles and drops to her knees. John pulls but she can't rise.
JOHN: ( crying, shouting ) Come on, you gotta try. please, Mom. Get up!
JOHN: Mom! MOMMM!!
SARAH: John? John? Can you hear me? Where are you? Onto a landing next to one of the SMELTER CRUCIBLES. Molten steel glows bright orange in the crucible of the furnace. Heat shimmers the air, giving everything a hallucinatory quality. John sees Sarah nearby, limping toward him. She can barely move, her leg bathed in blood. He runs toward her.
SARAH: ( gasping ) Help me, honey. John, get out of the way!!
SARAH: John, get out of the way!!
JOHN: ( screaming )
SHOOT!!!!: 209B John dives aside. The Sarah-form spins, changing into you-know-who. 209C The T-1000 is blown back a step and Sarah advances with each shot. 210 CLOSEUP TERMINATOR, as the chain drive brings it into view.
TERMINATOR: I need a vacation. They walk to the edge of the pit. Terminator looks down and sees that it is over.
JOHN: ( to Terminator ) Is it dead?
TERMINATOR: John unzips Sarah's backpack and takes out the hand of the first
JOHN: Will it melt in there?
TERMINATOR: Yes. Throw it in.
TERMINATOR: And the chip. John takes it out of his pocket. Looks at it. Tosses it into the It's finally over.
SARAH: It's finally over.
TERMINATOR: No. There is another chip. He touches a metal finger to the side of his head.
TERMINATOR: And it must be destroyed also. John suddenly understands what he means. Terminator looks at Sarah. They both know what must be done. John shakes his head.
JOHN: I'm sorry, John.
TERMINATOR: I'm sorry, John.
JOHN: No, no no!! It'll be okay. Stay with us!
TERMINATOR: I have to go away, John.
JOHN: Don't do it. Please. don't go Tears are streaming down his face. TIGHT CLOSEUP TERMINATOR, turning toward John. The human side of his face is in shadow, so we see mostly the chrome skull and the red eye.
TERMINATOR: It must end here. or I am the future.
JOHN: I order you not to! Terminator puts his hand on John's shoulder. He moves slightly and the human side of his face comes into the light. He reaches toward John's face. His metal finger touches the tear trickling down his cheek.
TERMINATOR: I know now why you cry. But it is something I can never do. Sarah looks at Terminator. Reaches out her hand to shake it. They lock eyes. Warriors. Comrades.
SARAH: Are you afraid?
TERMINATOR: He turns and steps off the edge. 213 They watch him sink into the lava. He disappears. the metal hand sinking last. at the last second it forms into a fist with the thumb extended. a final thumbs up. Then it is gone. 214 HOLD ON JOHN AND SARAH, watching through the heat ripples as we
GIRL: Tie me, grandma. Grandma Sarah smiles. It is the only time we have seen her smile so far. She bends as the little girls puts her foot up on the bench. She ties as we hear:
FADE OUT: Writers : James Cameron William Wisher
