THELMA: ( hollering ) I got it! Hello.
LOUISE: ( at pay phone ) I hope you're packed, little housewife, 'cause we are outta her Well, wait now. I still have to ask Darryl if I can go.
THELMA: Well, wait now. I still have to ask Darryl if I can go.
THELMA: He already thinks you're out of your mind, Louise, that don't carry much weight with Darryl. Are you at work?
THELMA: I'll call you right back.
THELMA: Darryl! Honey, you'd better hurry
DARRYL: Damnit, Thelma, don't holler like that! Haven't I told you I can't stand it when you holler in the I'm sorry, Doll, I just didn't want you to be late.
THELMA: I'm sorry, Doll, I just didn't want you to be late.
THELMA: ( she decides not to tell him ) Have a good day at work today.
DARRYL: ( she decides not to tell him ) Have a good day at work today.
THELMA: ( she decides not to tell him ) Have a good day at work today.
DARRYL: You want anything special for dinner?
THELMA: You want anything special for dinner?
DARRYL: You want anything special for dinner?
THELMA: You want anything special for dinner?
DARRYL: No, Thelma, I don't give a shit what we have for dinner. I may not even make it home for dinner. You know how Fridays are.
THELMA: Funny how so many people wanna buy carpet on a Friday night. You'd almost think they's want to forget about it for the weekend.
DARRYL: Well then, it's a good thing you're not regional manager and I am.
THELMA: 'Bye, honey. I won't wait up.
DARRYL: See ya.
THELMA: He's gonna shit.
ALBERT: Good morning. Why, yes, she is. Is this Thelma? Oh, Thelma, when you gonna run away with me?
LOUISE: ( to Albert ) Not this weekend, sweetie, she's runnin' away with me. ( into phone ) Hi. What'd he say?
LOUISE: You're kiddin'! Alright! I'll be there around two or three.
LOUISE: I don't know. Warm stuff, I guess. It's the mountains. I guess it gets cold at night. I'm just gonna bring Okay. I will, too.
LOUISE: And steal Darryl's fishin' stuff.
LOUISE: Neither do I, Thelma, but Darryl does it, how hard can it be? I'll see you later. Be ready.
THELMA: ( muttering to herself ) Psycho killers.
LOUISE: We don't need the lantern. The place has electricity.
THELMA: I wanna take it anyway. Just in In case of what?
LOUISE: In case of what?
THELMA: In case there's some escaped psycho killer on the loose, who cuts the electricity off and tries to come in and kill us.
LOUISE: ( going along with her ) Oh yeah, sure, Thelma, that lantern will come in real handy. Maybe we could tow your car behind, in case he steals the spark plugs.
THELMA: We'd have to. That thing barely makes it down the driveway.
THELMA: Louise, will you take care of the
LOUISE: Why in hell did you bring that?
THELMA: Oh, come on, Louise. psycho killers, bears. snakes! I just don't know how to use it. So will you take care of it?
THELMA: Whose place is this again?
LOUISE: It's Bob's, the day manager's. He's gettin' a divorce, so his wife's gettin' this place, so he's just lettin' all his friends use it till he has to turn over the keys.
THELMA: I've never had the chance to go out of town without Darryl.
LOUISE: How come he let you go?
THELMA: 'Cause I didn't ask him.
LOUISE: Aw, shit, Thelma, he's gonna kill Well, he has never let me go. He never lets me do one goddamn thing that's any fun. All he wants me to do is hang around the house the whole time while he's out doing God only knows what.
THELMA: Well, he has never let me go. He never lets me do one goddamn thing that's any fun. All he wants me to do is hang around the house the whole time while he's out doing God only knows what.
THELMA: ( looking straight ahead ) I left him a note. I left him stuff to microwave.
THELMA: I guess you haven't heard anything from Jimmy. yet?
THELMA: .never mind.
LOUISE: One of your friends?
THELMA: How much longer is it gonna be? I'm Another hour of so. We've got enough food for a month.
LOUISE: Another hour of so. We've got enough food for a month.
THELMA: I'll never make it. Can't we stop just for a few minutes.
LOUISE: We've not gonna get to the cabin till after dark as it is, Thelma.
THELMA: Then what difference does it make if we stop? Come on. I never get to do stuff like this.
LOUISE: Alright, but it's gonna be a quick
LOUISE: I haven't seen a place like this since I left Texas.
THELMA: Isn't this fun?
WAITRESS: Y'all wanna drink?
LOUISE: No thanks.
THELMA: I'll have Wild Turkey straight up and a Coke back, please.
LOUISE: Tell me somethin'. Is this my vacation or isn't it? I mean, God, you're as bad as Darryl.
THELMA: Tell me somethin'. Is this my vacation or isn't it? I mean, God, you're as bad as Darryl.
LOUISE: I just haven't seen you like this in a while. I'm used to seeing you more sedate.
THELMA: Well, I've had it up to my ass with sedate! You said you and me was gonna get outta town and, for once, just really let our hair down. Well, darlin,' look out 'cause my hair is comin' down!
LOUISE: ( laughing ) ( to Waitress ) I changed my mind. I'll have a margarita with and a shot of Cuervo on the side, please.
THELMA: As the Waitress leaves, a MAN comes over with a chair which he pulls up to the table and straddles backwards. He is in his late-40's, heavyset, his face is shiny in the neon light.
MAN: Now what are a couple of Kewpie dolls like you doin' in a place like this?
LOUISE: Mindin' our own business, why don't you try it.
THELMA: Well, we left town for the weekend 'cause we wanted to try and have a good time. And because Louise here is mad because her boyfriend won't call her while he's out on the
THELMA: ( quieter ) We just wanted to get somethin' to Well, you come to the right place. You like chili? They got good chili.
MAN: Well, you come to the right place. You like chili? They got good chili.
WAITRESS: Harlan, are you botherin' these poor Hell, no. I was just bein' friendly.
WAITRESS: ( making eye contact with Louise ) It's a good thing they're not all as friendly as you.
THELMA: Your name's Harlan? I got an uncle named Harlan!
HARLAN: You do? Is he a funny uncle? 'Cause if he is, then he and I got somethin' in common.
LOUISE: ( to Harlan ) I don't mean to be rude, but I've got something I need to talk to my friend about. In private.
HARLAN: Aw, I understand. I didn't mean to bother ya. It's just hard not to notice two such pretty ladies as You better dance with me before you leave, or I'll never forgive you.
THELMA: Oh, sure. That'd be fun.
THELMA: Jeez, Louise, that wasn't very nice.
LOUISE: Can't you tell when somebody's hittin' on you?
THELMA: So what if he was? It's all your years of waitin' tables has made you jaded, that's all.
LOUISE: Well, just relax, will ya. You're makin' me nervous.
THELMA: Well, just relax, will ya. You're makin' me nervous.
THELMA: So, Jimmy still hasn't called yet?
LOUISE: Givin' him a taste of his own medicine. Asshole.
THELMA: I'm sorry, Louise. I know you're all upset. It's just I'm so excited to be out of the house, I guess. I wonder if Darryl's home yet.
LOUISE: I wonder if Jimmy's gotten back.
THELMA: Why don't you tell him to just to get lost once and for all?
LOUISE: Why don't you ditch that loser husband of yours?
WAITRESS: ( rolling her eyes ) This one's on Harlan.
THELMA: Jimmy'll come in off the road, you won't be there, he'll freak out and call you a hundred thousand times, and Sunday night you'll call him back and, by Monday. He'll be kissin' the ground you walk on. In the meantime, you said we were gonna have some fun. So let's have
LOUISE: In the meantime, you said we were gonna have some fun. So let's have
THELMA: In the meantime, you said we were gonna have some fun. So let's have
LATER: Thelma is dancing with Harlan and has been for quite a while. Louise has been dancing with a quiet guy named DAN. Thelma is breathless, drunk and giggly. She holds a beer bottle in one hand. She is laughing a lot about nothing, and Harlan is studying her closely. Louise notices this.
LOUISE: ( over the noise ) Thelma, I'm gonna hit the little girls' room, and then we gotta hit the road.
THELMA: ( eyes closed, swaying with the music ) Ready when you are.
THELMA: ( eyes still closed ) Louise, I'm gonna come with you. ( she gets a funny look on her face ) I don't feel so good.
HARLAN: ( catching Thelma, copping feels ) Oopsy-doopsy. We need to get you some fresh air, little lady.
THELMA: Oh shit.
HARLAN: What's wrong?
THELMA: What for?
HARLAN: What for?
THELMA: I'm spinning.
HARLAN: How you feelin' now, darlin'?
THELMA: I guess I'm startin' to feel a little Yeah, you're startin' to feel pretty good to me, too.
HARLAN: Yeah, you're startin' to feel pretty good to me, too.
THELMA: ( uncomfortable ) I think I need to keep walking.
THELMA: Don't. I'm married. I don't feel good. I've been sick.
HARLAN: It's okay. I'm married, too.
HARLAN: ( breathing heavily ) You're beautiful. It's okay. I won't hurt you. It's okay.
THELMA: ( struggling ) Stop it! Goddamnit, I mean it! Louise is gonna wonder where I am. Let go!
HARLAN: Louise is alright.
LOUISE: is now standing outside the door of the Silver Bullet. She is looking around.
HARLAN: is pulling at Thelma's clothes. Thelma gets one of her arms free and hits him hard in the face. He hits her back and grabs her face, squeezing it hard.
HARLAN: Don't you hit me! Don't you fucking hit me!
HARLAN: You just shut up.
THELMA: Don't hurt me. Harlan. Please.
HARLAN: Shut up.
HARLAN: Get lost.
THELMA: TIGHT SHOT of the barrel of Thelma's gun being pressed into the nape of Harlan's neck. Louise's thumb pulls back the Harlan slowly raises his hands in the air, and Thelma darts out, pulling her dress down.
LOUISE: You let her go, you fat fucking asshole, or I'm gonna splatter your ugly face all over this nice car.
HARLAN: Now, calm down. We were just havin' a little fun.
LOUISE: Looks like you've got a real fucked up idea of fun. Now turn around. Just for the future, when a woman's crying like that, she's not having any fun!
LOUISE: Just for the future, when a woman's crying like that, she's not having any fun!
HARLAN: ( pulling up his pants ) Bitch. I should have gone ahead and fucked her.
LOUISE: What did you say?
HARLAN: I said suck my cock.
THELMA: Oh my God.
LOUISE: Get the car.
THELMA: Jesus Christ! Louise, you shot him.
LOUISE: Get the car!
LOUISE: ( quietly, to herself ) You watch your mouth, buddy.
LOUISE: Get back to the interstate. Shit! I. I, which way?
THELMA: Shit! I. I, which way?
LOUISE: West. Left.
THELMA: Louise does not answer.
THELMA: Louise. Where are we going?
LOUISE: ( shaking ) I don't know, Thelma! I don't know! Just shut up a minute so I can think.
THELMA: Shouldn't we go to the cops? I mean, I think we should tell the police.
LOUISE: Tell them what?! What, Thelma? What do you think we should tell I don't know. Just tell 'em what Which part?
THELMA: I don't know. Just tell 'em what Which part?
LOUISE: Which part?
THELMA: All of it. That he tried to rape Only about a hundred people saw you cheek to goddamn cheek with him all night, Thelma! Who's gonna believe that?! We just don't live in that kind of world. Pull over!
LOUISE: Only about a hundred people saw you cheek to goddamn cheek with him all night, Thelma! Who's gonna believe that?! We just don't live in that kind of world. Pull over!
THELMA: Louise. Are you alright?
LOUISE: Oh Christ.
LOUISE: Thelma looks at her blankly, without answering.
LOUISE: I've gotta stop for a minute. I've got to get it together. I'm gonna find a place to get a cup of coffee and I'm gonna sit down for a second. Do you want to come?
LOUISE: Is that yes? Are you up to this?
LOUISE: We gotta be inconspicuous. Do you know what that means?
THELMA: It means you don't talk to anybody. You don't draw attention to yourself in any way. Do you understand that?
LOUISE: It means you don't talk to anybody. You don't draw attention to yourself in any way. Do you understand that?
LOUISE: Tell me you understand that.
LOUISE: ( halfway to herself ) We have to think this through. We have to be smart. Now is not the time to panic. If we panic now, we're done for. Nobody saw it. Nobody knows it was us. We're still okay. Now all we have to do is just figure out our next move.
THELMA: Our next move? I'll say one thing, Louise. This is some vacation. I sure am having a good time. This is real fun.
LOUISE: If you weren't so concerned with having a good time, we wouldn't be here right now.
THELMA: Just what is that supposed to mean?
LOUISE: It means shut up, Thelma.
THELMA: So this is all my fault, is it.
LOUISE: Just shut up.
THELMA: I have to go to the bathroom. I.
HAL: Could you identify 'em, if ya saw 'em again?
HAL: Well, you're not exactly an expert witness, but what makes you so sure?
LENA: If waitin' tables in a bar don't make you an expert on human nature, then nothin' will, and I could've told you that Harlan Puckett would end up buyin' it in a parkin' lot. I'm just surprised it didn't happen before now.
HAL: Who do you think did it?
LENA: Has anybody asked his wife? She's the one I hope did it.
HAL: Lena, just cut the bullshit, will ya? Do have any ideas or don't ya? I been standin' in this stupid parkin' lot all goddamn night, and I still got to go file a report before I can go home in time to get back up again!
LENA: Well, if I had to guess, I'd say it was some ol' gal, some ol' gal's husband. But it wasn't either one of those two. The tall one, the redhead, she left me a huge tip.
HAL: You didn't happen to notice what kind of car they were driving?
LENA: It's a nightclub, not a drive-in, Hal. I don't follow the customers to the parking lot.
HAL: Alright, Lena. Go on home. We might have to call you in for some more
LENA: Those girls are not the murderous
THELMA: ( into phone ) Collect from Thelma.
THE BEDROOM: exactly as Thelma left it. The drawer of the nightstand still open.
THELMA: Thanks. I'll try later.
LOUISE: Thelma. Come on, Thelma!
LOUISE: We're gonna go to the next town and stop. We'll get a motel room. I can rest for a while and then figure out how to get some money. We're gonna need money. Thelma. How much money do you have with you?
THELMA: What? Oh, I don't know. Let me
THELMA: Sixty-four dollars.
THELMA: Umm. Shit. Forty-four dollars. I'm cash poor.
THELMA: I'm cash poor.
LOUISE: Hmmm. We gotta get some money.
THELMA: Why are you unpacking? You said we were just gonna take a nap.
LOUISE: Oh, I don't know. I'm just nervous. I gotta figure out what to do.
THELMA: Well, when you figure it out, wake me up.
LOUISE: Just what the hell is wrong with
THELMA: What do you mean?
LOUISE: Why are you actin' like this?
THELMA: Actin' like what?! How am I supposed to act? 'Scuse me for not knowing what to do after you blow somebody's head off!
LOUISE: You could help me try and figure it out! I gotta figure out what to do, and you could try and help me.
THELMA: I suggested we go to the police, but you didn't like that; so, frankly, Louise, I'm all out of ideas.
LOUISE: Well, what's the big rush, Thelma? If we just give 'em some time, they'll come to us.! Oh Christ. I'm just not ready to go to jail yet. Why don't you go out to the pool or something and I'll figure it out.
THELMA: Give me the keys.
LOUISE: You're not touchin' that car.
THELMA: My stuff's in the trunk! God! You care more about that car than you do about most people.
LOUISE: Most people just cause me trouble, but that car always gets me out of
HAL: ( pointing ) What's that?
I.D. TECH: I.D. TECH
HAL: I.D. TECH
I.D. TECH: His, I guess.
HAL: You guess?
LOUISE: Hi. I'm okay. How are you? Long time no see.
LOUISE: I am funny. I'm real funny.
LOUISE: No, I'm out of town. I'm in. I'm in real deep shit, Jimmy. Deep shit Louise, just tell me what the hell is going on here! I come back, nobody knows where you are. Is Thelma with you? Darryl's been callin' here every half-hour sayin' he's gonna kill you both when you get back, he's goin' nuts. I don't envy her if she is.
LOUISE: Fishing. Look, Jimmy. I need you to help me. This is serious. I'm in trouble and I need you to help me. Can you do that?
JIMMY: Yes, yes, darlin'. I can help you. Tell me where you are.
LOUISE: I have a savings account with about sixty-seven hundred dollars in it. Now I know you won't be able to get it out, but I'm good for it. I need that money. Can you wire me the sixty-seven hundred dollars and I'll pay you back? Please, I'm desperate.
LOUISE: Something real bad has happened and I can't tell you what, just that it's bad and I did it and I can't undo it. Can you help me?
LOUISE: She takes the ring that she wears on her left hand and turns it around backwards to make it look like a wedding band.
LOUISE: Do you love me?
LOUISE: Wire it to the Western Union in Oklahoma City,
JIMMY: You're in Oklahoma?!
JIMMY: Louise, let me call you back after I wire it, so you'll know which office to go to.
JIMMY: No, for that much money I have to tell them exactly which office. I know, I've had to have money wired to me on the road. And there has to be a code word or they won't give it to you. I'll have to tell you the Tell me now.
LOUISE: Tell me now.
LOUISE: Okay. I'll call you back. In an hour. Don't tell Darryl.
LOUISE: EXT. MOTEL POOL - DAY Thelma by the pool. A car SCREECHES, a loud horn HONKS.
LOUISE: ( bellowing ) Come on, Thelma! Get in the car!
THELMA: Did you finish thinking?
LOUISE: I think better when I drive.
HAL: All we know is there were two women in a green T-Bird convertible that turned left out of the parking lot, going real fast. We're trying to get a make on the car, but nothin' yet. So far, we got nothin'.
MAJOR: Well, you'd best get something. Even if they didn't do it, it times out that they most likely witnessed it. I want somebody to at least talk to 'em. Put out an APB with a description and see what we get back.
HAL: Is there any reason to believe they've left the state?
MAJOR: Is there any reason to believe they've left the state?
HAL: That's certainly possible.
MAJOR: Why don't we go ahead and let the bureau in on this.
HAL: I have no problem with that.
MAJOR: Somebody's butt is gonna bar-b-que.
THELMA: Don't get mad, Louise, but where are we going?
LOUISE: Oklahoma City. Jimmy's gonna wire me some money, and then.
THELMA: You talked to him?! Is he mad? Did you tell him?
LOUISE: No, I didn't tell him. And that's something we gotta get straight. Darryl's been callin', mad as a hornet, makin' all kinds of noise. When you talk to him, you cannot say anything about this. You gotta make sure everything sounds normal.
THELMA: I called the asshole at 4:00 in the morning and he wasn't even home. I don't know what he's got to be mad about. I'm the one who should be I've been tellin' you that for the last ten years.
LOUISE: I've been tellin' you that for the last ten years.
THELMA: Do you think Darryl's having an I don't think Darryl is mature enough to conduct an affair.
LOUISE: I don't think Darryl is mature enough to conduct an affair.
THELMA: But you think he fools around.
LOUISE: Thelma, I'm going to Mexico. I think I can make it in two and a half days, but I'm going to have to haul ass. Are you up to this? I mean, I have to know. This isn't a game. I'm in deep shit. I gotta know what you're gonna do.
THELMA: I. I don't know. I don't know what you're askin' me.
LOUISE: Don't you fall apart on me. Goddamnit, Thelma. Every time we get in trouble, you go blank or plead insanity or some such shit, and this time. Not this time. Everything's changed now. Now you can do whatever you want, but I'm going to Mexico. I'm going. Are you coming with me?
THELMA: I think he does. Fool around.
LOUISE: Do you have a pay phone?
OLD MAN: 'Round the side, by the restrooms. Is that how you answer the phone?
JIMMY: EXT. PAY PHONE - DAY
LOUISE: Is that how you answer the phone?
LOUISE: Who did it?
LOUISE: You didn't say what it was for, did No, honey. I told him I was buyin' a car. What is it for?
LOUISE: ( not responding to the question ) Good. That was good. Where do I ( on phone ) It's a place called Shaw's Siesta Motel. The address is 1921 North East 23. It's under your name.
LOUISE: And what's the mysterious code word?
LOUISE: JIMMY ( V.O. )
LOUISE: Okay, Jimmy. Thanks.
JIMMY: INT. COUNTRY STORE - DAY Thelma in store buying gum, beef jerky. Next to the cash register on the counter on display are those little tiny bottles of liquor. Thelma picks up a little bottle of Wild Turkey and puts in on the counter. The Old Man rings it up. She takes another one and puts it on the counter. The Old Man is still ringing stuff up. She takes two more and puts them on the counter. She takes the rest of the little bottles of Wild Turkey out of the display and puts them on the counter. She takes one little bottle of Cuervo and puts it down on the counter, too. The Old Man finally looks at her. From the wall behind him, he takes a pint of Wild Turkey down.
OLD MAN: Ma'am, are you sure you wouldn't rather have the large economy size?
LOUISE: Go call Darryl.
THELMA: Call him?
LOUISE: Call him. Don't tell him anything. Tell him you're having a wonderful time and you'll be home tomorrow Will I be?
THELMA: Will I be?
LOUISE: I don't know. I won't be.
THELMA: walks around to the side of the building to the phone. She picks it up and dials.
THELMA: ( into phone ) Collect from Thelma.
THELMA: INT. THELMA'S HOUSE - DAY Darryl in the den of their house. The room is a mess. There are beer cans everywhere. The large screen TV is ON, showing a FOOTBALL GAME. Darryl is in a recliner. He is wearing loud shorts, a V-necked T-shirt, and a couple of necklaces and bracelets.
DARRYL: Goddamnit, Thelma, where in the Sam Hill are you?!
THELMA: I'm. I'm with Louise. We're in the mountains, we're.
DARRYL: ( interrupting ) What in the hell do you think you're doing? Have you lost your goddamn mind?! Is that it? I leave for work and you take complete leave of your senses?
THELMA: Darryl. baby. Darryl, calm down now, honey. Please don't get so mad. I can explain.
DARRYL: Hold on. Hold on a minute, damnit.
DARRYL: No you won't. You'll be back today. Now! You get your ass back here, Thelma, now, Goddamnit. Thelma, do you understand me?
THELMA: Darryl, please. You're my husband, not my father, Darryl.
DARRYL: ( interrupting ) That does it! That Louise is nothin' but a bad influence. If you're not back here tonight, Goddamnit, Thelma. well, I just don't wanna
DARRYL: EXT. PAY PHONE - DAY She hangs up on him.
THELMA: DARRYL ( V.O. )
THELMA: Go fuck yourself.
HITCHHIKER: Whoa! Excuse me! Miss, are you
HITCHHIKER: Is there anything I can do?
THELMA: No. Thanks. Sorry.
THELMA: collects herself as she walks back to the car. She gets in and is drying her eyes, looking in the side mirror. In the mirror she sees the Hitchhiker come back around from the side of the building. He is several feet behind the car, and she watches him as he removes his long-sleeved shirt and stuffs it into his duffel bag. Now he is just in T-shirt and jeans. He looks good. Really good. She watches in the mirror as he picks up his stuff and heads towards the road. She can see him as he's walking. He stops. He's thinking. He heads over to the car.
HITCHHIKER: Would you mind me asking which direction you and your friend are going? I'm trying to get back to school and my ride fell through, so I'm kinda stuck. Are you going my
THELMA: Umm. I think we're going to Oklahoma City. But I'm not sure.
HITCHHIKER: Do you think you could. I mean, I could help pay for gas.
THELMA: Ummm. Well, see, it's not really up to me. It's not my car. Umm, we'll have to ask my friend, but she'll probably say no. She's a little Well. Maybe we better not ask her. But thank you anyway. Well, we can ask her. That won't
HITCHHIKER: Well. Maybe we better not ask her. But thank you anyway. Well, we can ask her. That won't
THELMA: Well, we can ask her. That won't
THELMA: Louise, this young man is on his way back to school and needs a ride, and I thought since.
LOUISE: It's probably not a good idea.
THELMA: The Hitchhiker just nods and starts walking towards the road.
HITCHHIKER: Y'all have a nice day. Drive safe.
THELMA: See how polite he is? He was really
HITCHHIKER: ( to Thelma ) You cheer up now!
THELMA: I wish we could've brought him with What did Darryl say?
LOUISE: What did Darryl say?
THELMA: ( sarcastically ) He said "Okay, Thelma. I just wanted to know you were alright. I hope you're havin' a good time. You sure deserve one after puttin' up with me all the time. I love you, honey."
THELMA: How long before we're in Goddamn
THELMA: I just don't see what it would hurt just to give somebody a ride. Did you see his butt? Darryl doesn't have a cute butt. You could park a car in the shadow of his ass.
LOUISE: I'm sorry. I'm just not in the mood for company right now. Here. Take this map. I need you to find all the secondary roads to Mexico from Oklahoma City. I think we should stay off the interstates. We're too Well, it looks like we can get on this road 81 that heads down towards Dallas, then cut over to.
THELMA: ( taking map ) Well, it looks like we can get on this road 81 that heads down towards Dallas, then cut over to.
LOUISE: ( interrupting ) I don't want to go that way. Find a way that we don't have to go through ( looking at map ) Wait. What? You want to go to Mexico from Oklahoma and you don't want to go through Texas?
THELMA: ( looking at map ) Wait. What? You want to go to Mexico from Oklahoma and you don't want to go through Texas?
LOUISE: You know how I feel about Texas. We're not going that way.
THELMA: I know, Louise, but we're running for our lives! Don't you think you could make an exception just this once?! I mean, look at the map. The only thing between Oklahoma and Mexico is Texas!
LOUISE: Thelma! I'm not gonna talk about this! Now find another way or give me the goddamn map and I will! You No, Louise. How come you never said what happened?
THELMA: No, Louise. How come you never said what happened?
LOUISE: I. I just. I just don't think it's the place I wanna get caught for doin' something like. if you blow a guy's head off with his pants down, believe me, Texas is the last place you wanna get caught! Trust me! Now, I said, I don't wanna talk about it!!
THELMA: Okay. We'll go around Texas to get to Mexico. This is crazy.
THELMA: I'll tell you what. He is gooood
HER BED: is unwrinkled, perfect, and next to it on her nightstand is a picture of Jimmy and her in a small heart shaped frame. Everything is extremely neat and orderly.
THELMA: So J.D., what are you studying in Human nature. I'm majoring in behavioral science.
LOUISE: And whaddya wanna be when ya grow A waiter.
DARRYL: CUT TO:
DARRYL: EXT. RURAL HIGHWAY - DAY
THELMA: Darryl, that's my husband, he says he's not ready. He's still too much of a kid himself. He prides himself on being infantile.
LOUISE: He's got a lot to be proud of.
THELMA: Louise and Darryl don't get along.
LOUISE: That's puttin' it mildly.
THELMA: She thinks he's a pig.
LOUISE: He's a real piece o' work. I wish you could meet him.
THELMA: Twenty-four isn't young. I'd already been goin' out with him ten years when we got married. I've never been with anybody but Darryl.
THELMA: It's okay. He is an asshole. Most of the time I just let it slide.
LOUISE: We'll take you on to Oklahoma City, then you'd best be on your way.
HAL: The prints on the trunk of the car match those of Thelma Dickinson.
MAX: Well I'll be damned. Isn't that And the husband says a gun is missing. She took a lot of stuff. It looks like she maybe planned on being gone a while. The strange thing is, her husband said she would never touch that gun. He got it for her 'cause he's out late a lot, but he said she'd never touch it, wouldn't learn to shoot it, just left it in a drawer for years.
HAL: And the husband says a gun is missing. She took a lot of stuff. It looks like she maybe planned on being gone a while. The strange thing is, her husband said she would never touch that gun. He got it for her 'cause he's out late a lot, but he said she'd never touch it, wouldn't learn to shoot it, just left it in a drawer for years.
MAX: What kind of gun was it?
MAX: Right. Where are they?
HAL: We're lookin'. They were on their way to some guy's cabin and they never showed up. We're lookin'. We hope you're lookin' too.
LOUISE: I just gotta run in for a minute.
LOUISE: You two better go on and say your
LOUISE: Louise Elizabeth Sawyer. Are you Nothin'. Nothin' came in today at
WOMAN: Nothin'. Nothin' came in today at
LOUISE: Nothing under peaches? Check again under peaches.
WOMAN: Naw, nothin' under peaches neither.
JIMMY: Hey, peaches.
LOUISE: Oh my God! Jimmy! You. Oh my God! What are you doin' here?
JIMMY: ( to Woman ) Can we get another room? Just put it on my credit card.
WOMAN: 'Round to the back.
THELMA: Jimmy! Hello, stranger. What in the world are you doin' here?
JIMMY: Ask me no questions, I'll tell you no lies.
THELMA: Good answer. Same goes double for Who's your friend?
JIMMY: Who's your friend?
THELMA: This is J.D. He's a student. We're just givin' him a ride to. to here. Louise said we could bring him here and then he'd have to go. And that's what he's doin'. He's goin'. Aren't you, J.D.?
THELMA: ( watching him ) Yup. That's him goin'. I love to watch him go.
LOUISE: ( to Jimmy ) Thelma kinda took to him.
JIMMY: ( to Thelma ) Well, come on, gal, I got you a room. You can go on in and take a nice cold shower.
THELMA: Don't mind me, Jimmy, I'm just a wild woman.
JIMMY: I always knew that.
THELMA: A regular outlaw.
LOUISE: Let me just go in and freshen up for a minute. I need to wash my face, you know.
JIMMY: Okay, honey. I don't want to rush you. I just wanna talk to you and. .be alone with you. I'll just be in my room, 115, you just come on down when you're ready.
JIMMY: I'll be waiting.
THELMA: I don't care what you say about him. The boy has got it bad.
LOUISE: He's always got it bad as long as I'm running in the other direction. Don't be fooled, he's no different than any other guy. He knows how to chase and that's it. Once he's caught you, he don't know what to do. So he runs away.
THELMA: I heard that.
LOUISE: ( indicating envelope ) Our future.
THELMA: So what are you gonna tell him?
LOUISE: Nothing. I'm not gonna tell him a thing. The least I can do is not make him an accessory any more than he already is.
THELMA: You are so sweet to that guy, you really are. Imagine not wanting to drag him into this. He is a lucky I didn't ask him to come! It's like I said, Thelma, he just loves the Well boy, he's got his work cut out for him now, don't he?
LOUISE: I didn't ask him to come! It's like I said, Thelma, he just loves the Well boy, he's got his work cut out for him now, don't he?
THELMA: Well boy, he's got his work cut out for him now, don't he?
LOUISE: Put a lid on it, Thelma! It's hard enough as it is. Just let me get this part over with. Now stay here and guard the money. If there's any problem I'm in room 115.
THELMA: I won't wait up.
LOUISE: How do I look?
THELMA: You're a vision, Louise, a goddamn vision of loveliness, you always Have another drink, Thelma.
LOUISE: Have another drink, Thelma.
THELMA: Good idea.
LOUISE: ( in a falsetto voice ) Who is it?
JIMMY: ( in a falsetto voice ) Who is it?
LOUISE: It's me.
THELMA: Another KNOCK.
THELMA: Louise, is that you?
THELMA: Wait.! Um, where ya going?
THELMA: I don't know. Nothin'. Took a That sounds nice.
THELMA: Well, you wanna use the shower?
THELMA: She's off with Jimmy, that's her That's lonely for you, I guess. I always think of motel rooms as lonely.
THELMA: ( letting him in the door ) Oh, yes, well, they can be.
JIMMY: Now, my little coconut, what seems to be the trouble here? Tell Daddy Jimmy, my daddy's still alive and it kind of gives me the creeps when you do that.
LOUISE: ( cringing ) Jimmy, my daddy's still alive and it kind of gives me the creeps when you do that.
JIMMY: Okay, okay, just tell me what's the
LOUISE: Jimmy, I'm not gonna tell ya what the trouble is. Someday soon you'll understand why I can't. But I won't tell ya, so don't ask me.
JIMMY: ( almost at a loss for words ) Okay, peaches, okay. But can I ask you one thing?
LOUISE: Does it have something to do with another guy? Are you in love with It's nothin' like that.
JIMMY: Does it have something to do with another guy? Are you in love with It's nothin' like that.
LOUISE: It's nothin' like that.
JIMMY: ( exploding ) Then what?! What, goddamnit, Louise! Where the fuck are you going? Are you just leaving for fucking ever? What, did you fuckin' murder somebody or what?!
LOUISE: Stop it! Stop it, Jimmy, or I'll leave right now. I'm not kiddin'!
JIMMY: ( calming down ) Alright, alright. I'm sorry.
JIMMY: Can I just ask you one other thing?
LOUISE: Jimmy pulls a little black box out of his pocket.
JIMMY: Will you wear this?
JIMMY: Will you at least see how it fits?
LOUISE: Jimmy. it's beautiful!
JIMMY: You didn't see that one comin', did
THELMA: You wanna drink?
JIMMY: So whaddya think. I mean. I could. uh. get a job. Of some kind. I mean you've been tellin' me that for years, right?
LOUISE: Why now, Jimmy?
JIMMY: ( this is hard for him ) 'Cause, Louise. I don't want to lose you. And for some reason I get the feelin' you're about to split. Jimmy, we've gone all these years. we never made it work. We're not gonna be able to just. I'm not. What kind of job, honey? Can you see it. I can't.
LOUISE: Jimmy, we've gone all these years. we never made it work. We're not gonna be able to just. I'm not. What kind of job, honey? Can you see it. I can't.
JIMMY: I'm the one. I never made it work. I just. It's not that I don't love you. It's not that. I just never thought I'd be thirty-six years old and I never thought. I don't know what I thought. What do you want, darlin'. What do you want me to do.
LOUISE: I don't know. It doesn't even matter anymore. I just want you to be happy. It's not that I don't love you either. But Jimmy, your timing couldn't be worse.
JIMMY: Are you just doin' this to punish Believe me, the last thing I want is for you to get punished.
LOUISE: Believe me, the last thing I want is for you to get punished.
JIMMY: It does look good.
THELMA: ( giggling ) Stop, stop, stop!
THELMA: Who are you?
THELMA: J.D.! Just tell me. I know you're not some schoolboy. Now come on, nobody ever tells me shit.
THELMA: What?! Parole officer? You mean you're a criminal?
THELMA: What did ya do?
THELMA: You're a bank robber?
THELMA: Well, I robbed a gas station once, and I robbed a couple of liquor stores, and some convenience stores. And that's it.
THELMA: Well, I was just down on my luck and it seemed like somethin' I was good at so I.
THELMA: ( interrupting ) No, I mean how would you do it? Do you just sneak in real fast or hide out till the store closes or what?
THELMA: Tell me.
THELMA: My gosh, you sure gentlemanly about I've always believed if done right, armed robbery doesn't have to be a totally unpleasant experience.
THELMA: God. You're a real live outlaw!
THELMA: And smooth, boy, you are smooth.
THELMA: You're kinda the best thing that's happened to me in a long time.
JIMMY: Louise? I think you are so damn beautiful. I mean that. I always
LOUISE: ( whispering ) I think you're beautiful too.
JIMMY: Don't worry darlin'. I'll say I never found you. I'll say anything you want. We'll find a way to get you out of this, whatever it is.
LOUISE: Damn, Jimmy, did you take a pill that makes you say all the right I'm choking on it.
JIMMY: I'm choking on it.
JIMMY: Honey? Ummm. Do you want me to come with you?
LOUISE: Oh. now. it's probably not such a good idea right now. I'll. catch up with you later, on down the road.
JIMMY: You keep this!
LOUISE: Your taxi's here.
JIMMY: Are you happy, Louise? I just want you to be happy.
LOUISE: I'm happy, sweetie. Happy as I can
WAITRESS: Good thing he left when he did. We thought we were gonna have to put out a fire.
HAL: Yes, baby?
SARAH: Yes, baby?
HAL: Do you think you could ever shoot Do you think you could ever think of a set of circumstances that would just cause you to haul off and shoot I could shoot your cousin Eddie.
SARAH: Do you think you could ever think of a set of circumstances that would just cause you to haul off and shoot I could shoot your cousin Eddie.
HAL: Do you think you could ever think of a set of circumstances that would just cause you to haul off and shoot I could shoot your cousin Eddie.
SARAH: I could shoot your cousin Eddie.
HAL: Because he's an inconsiderate asshole.
SARAH: Because he's an inconsiderate asshole.
HAL: I'm asking you seriously, Sarah, a I don't know, honey. I guess it would depend.
SARAH: I don't know, honey. I guess it would depend.
HAL: On what?
SARAH: ( trying to picture it ) Well, maybe if they were trying to hurt you or one of the kids. I'm sure I could shoot someone if they tried to hurt one of the children.
HAL: Yeah, I could too. But. I don't know why I'm even asking you this. It's just. we can't place anybody at the scene but these two gals that everybody swears is sweet as pie. I don't know. I keep hearing words impossible inconceivable. If just one person would say.
SARAH: Honey. Nothing's impossible. You just don't shoot someone like that for no reason. Maybe he was askin' for it. Anyway, somebody's husband probably got ol' Harlan.
HAL: That's what everybody says. Only problem is nobody's husband was unaccounted for that night. Could you shoot Eddie in the face? At point blank range?
SARAH: ( thinking ) In the leg.
HAL: ( getting up ) I gotta go to Little Rock.
THELMA: She is shocked by Thelma's appearance.
LOUISE: What happened to your hair?
THELMA: Nothing. It got messed up.
LOUISE: What's wrong with you?
THELMA: Nothing. Why? Do I seem different?
LOUISE: Yes, now that you mention it. You seem crazy. Like you're on drugs.
THELMA: Well, I'm not on drugs. But I might be crazy.
LOUISE: ( shaking her head ) I don't think I wanna hear what you're gonna tell me.
THELMA: Oh my God, Louise!!! I can't believe it! I just really can't believe it! I mean. whoa! Oh, Thelma. Oh, no.
LOUISE: Oh, Thelma. Oh, no.
THELMA: I mean I finally understand what all the fuss is about. This is just a whole 'nother ball game!
LOUISE: Thelma, please get a hold of yourself. You're making a spectacle.
THELMA: You know, Louise, you're supposed to be my best friend. You could at least be a little bit happy for me. You could at least pretend to be slightly happy that for once in my life I have a sexual experience that isn't completely disgusting.
LOUISE: I'm sorry. I am happy. I'm very happy for you. I'm glad you had a good time. It's about time. Where is he now?
THELMA: Taking a shower.
LOUISE: You left that guy alone in the room?
LOUISE: Where's the money, Thelma?
THELMA: Ummm. it's on the table. It's
THELMA: I don't remember.
THELMA: Goddamnit! I've never been lucky! Not one time!
THELMA: Shit. That little sonofabitch burgled me. I don't believe it. Louise? Are you okay?
THELMA: Louise? Are you okay?
THELMA: Louise. It's okay. Louise? I'm sorry. I mean it.
LOUISE: It's not okay, Thelma. It's definitely not okay. None of this is okay. What are we going to do for money? What are we gonna buy gas with? Our good looks? I mean. Goddamn, Thelma!
THELMA: Come on. Stand up! Don't you worry about it. I'll take care of it. Just don't you worry about it. Get your stuff.
THELMA: Come on! Damnit, get your stuff and let's get out of here!
THELMA: ( to herself ) Jesus Christ, take your damn time.
HAL: ( to Darryl ) As you know, we've tapped your phone. In the event that she calls in.
MAX: We're going to leave someone here at the house in the event that she calls in. Someone will be here until we find them.
HAL: The important thing is not to let on that you know anything. We want to try and find out where they are. Now I don't want to get too personal, but do you have a good relationship with your wife? Are you close with Yeah, I guess. I mean, I'm about as close as I can be with a nut case like that.
DARRYL: Yeah, I guess. I mean, I'm about as close as I can be with a nut case like that.
MAX: Well, if she calls, just be gentle. Like you're happy to hear from her. You know, like you really miss her. Women love that shit.
LOUISE: Eighty-eight dollars ain't gonna make a dent, baby girl.
THELMA: ( getting out of the car ) Don't worry about it. You want ( breathless )
LOUISE: Thelma marches off to the store. Louise puts a tape in the deck and is listening to loud R&B MUSIC. She checks herself in the rearview mirror. She takes her lipstick out and is about to put it on. She makes eye contact with herself and, instead, throws it out the window, closes her eyes and leans her head back on the seat. She's in a world of shit. Thelma comes trotting out of the store and jumps into the Louise looks at her.
THELMA: ( breathless )
THELMA: Drive! Drive away!
LOUISE: ( driving away ) What happened?
LOUISE: What? You robbed the store? You robbed the Goddamn store?!
THELMA: Well! We needed the money! It's not like I killed anybody, for God's
THELMA: I'm sorry. Well, we need the money. Now we have it.
LOUISE: Oh shit, Thelma!! Shit! Shit! Now you get a grip, Louise! Just drive us to Goddamn Mexico, will ya!
THELMA: ( sternly ) Now you get a grip, Louise! Just drive us to Goddamn Mexico, will ya!
LOUISE: Okay. Shit, Thelma! What'd you do? I mean, what did you say?
THELMA: Well, I just.
LOUISE: ( incredulous ) Holy shit.
DARRYL: Jesus Christ.
MAX: Good God.
HAL: ( wearily ) My Lord.
LOUISE: Holy shit.
THELMA: Lemme see the map.
THELMA: Louise, you'd better slow down. I'll just die if we get caught over a speeding ticket.
LOUISE: For the first time in my life, I wish this car wasn't green.
THELMA: Are you sure we should be driving like this? In broad daylight and No we shouldn't, but I want to put some distance between us and the scene of our last Goddamn crime!
LOUISE: No we shouldn't, but I want to put some distance between us and the scene of our last Goddamn crime!
THELMA: Oooooweee!! You shoulda seen me! Like I'd been doin' it all my life! Nobody would ever believe it.
LOUISE: You think you've found your calling?
THELMA: Maybe. Maybe. The call of the wild! You're disturbed.
LOUISE: You're disturbed.
THELMA: Yes! I believe I am!
JIMMY: I swear to God, she wouldn't tell me one thing! Christ! You oughta try to find that kid that was with 'em.
HAL: Tell us about him.
JIMMY: Just some young guy. Around twenty years old. Dark hair. They said they'd picked him up along the way. He was a student. But he didn't look right. But he left when they got to the motel.
JIMMY: ( trying to remember him ) They said they'd picked him up along the way. He was a student. But he didn't look right. But he left when they got to the motel.
MAX: Do you understand that you may be facing an accessory charge?
HAL: This is serious, son. A man is dead.
JIMMY: I know! I'd tell you if I knew! Goddamn! I know something happened, or she wouldn't have left. I'm trying to remember everything! Find that fucking kid. He probably knows
LOUISE: So what's the plan, Thelma? You just gonna stay drunk?
THELMA: Try to.
LOUISE: They come ROARING up on a semi-tanker carrying gas. We see their FISH-EYE REFLECTIONS in the shiny tanker. The mud flaps are the shiny silhouettes of naked women that Thelma and Louise saw earlier. The truck is going slower than they are.
LOUISE: Aw, great. This always happens. Whenever you're in a hurry.
THELMA: Isn't that nice? Truck drivers are always so nice. The best drivers on the road.
THELMA: Ugh!! Why do they have to do that?
LOUISE: They think we like it. Maybe they think it turns us on.
HAL: Is this the guy you saw them with?
JIMMY: ( looking closely ) It's him.
MAX: ( clapping his hands ) Oh, happy day.
JIMMY: You gotta be kiddin' me. They picked up a murderer?!
HAL: Armed robber.
JIMMY: Oh, great.
MAX: ( to Hal ) They're flying him here right now. He was picked up this morning for parole violation. They also found about six grand on him, so he probably knocked over something while he was out there. They can drop him by here for questioning. I'm so happy.
JIMMY: ( overhearing ) How much cash did he have?
LOUISE: I want you to call Darryl.
THELMA: I want you to call Darryl.
LOUISE: I want you to call Darryl.
THELMA: What for?
LOUISE: To find out if he knows anything. If you think he does, you gotta hang up because it means the police have told him and the phone is probably Jeez, Louise, tapped the phone? You think so?
THELMA: Jeez, Louise, tapped the phone? You think so?
LOUISE: ( agitated ) Oh, come on! Murder one and armed robbery, Thelma!
THELMA: Murder one! God, Louise, can't we even say it was self-defense?
LOUISE: But it wasn't! We got away! We were walkin' away!
THELMA: They don't know that! It was just you and me there. I'll say he raped me and you had to shoot him! I mean, it's almost the truth!
LOUISE: It won't work.
THELMA: Why not?!
LOUISE: No physical evidence. We can't prove he did it. We probably can't even prove he touched you by now.
THELMA: God. The law is some tricky shit, isn't it? How do you know 'bout all this stuff
THELMA: How do you know 'bout all this stuff
LOUISE: Besides, what do we say about the robbery? No excuse for that. No such thing as justifiable robbery.
THELMA: Alright, Louise!
DARRYL: ( yelling at the door ) Hey! Hey!
HAL: That's Thelma Dickinson's husband.
HAL: Well, son, she's doin' a damn sight better 'n you right now.
MAX: Where did you get $6600.00 in cash?
HAL: We spoke with a gentlemen today who says he personally delivered very close to that same amount to a Miss Louise Sawyer. Do you know her too?
HAL: He said he took it to a motel in Oklahoma City. He also says that at that time he met a man. He identified you through a series of mug shots. He also told us that you and Mrs. Dickinson seemed "close." Is that You might say we had a meeting of the minds, yes.
MAX: Did you know that Mrs. Dickinson and Miss Sawyer are wanted in connection with a murder?
HAL: Did either of them ever indicate that they might be running from the Now that you mention it, they might have been a little bit jumpy.
HAL: You know what? You're starting to irritate me.
MAX: Yeah. Me too.
HAL: Do you mind if I have a word with him alone for a minute.
HAL: Son, I gotta feelin' about somethin' and I just wanna ask your opinion. Do you think Thelma Dickinson would have committed armed robbery if you hadn't taken all their money? Cat got your tongue?
HAL: Cat got your tongue?
HAL: There's two girls out there that had a chance, they had a chance.! And you blew it for 'em. Now they've gotten in some serious trouble, some very serious trouble and for at least part of it, I'm gonna hold you personally responsible for anything that happens to them. I've got no feelin' for you. But I may be the only person in the world who gives a rat's ass what happens to them and you're either gonna tell me every damn thing you know, so there's a small chance I can actually do them some good, or I'm gonna be all over you like a fly on shit for the rest of your natural life. Your misery is gonna be my goddamn mission in life. That's a sincere promise.
HAL: Now, for one thing, you violated your parole two days out. And you know Judge Hainey. He hates this sort of thing. Once he gets wind of this, he's gonna blow sky high. And then when he finds out that you're a possible accessory to murder and armed robbery, well, I think we can safely place your ass back in the slammer for at least the remaining eight, don't you?
MAX: Oh, definitely.
HAL: Mr. Dickinson, if you'll just hang on, I want a word with you and then we'll take you home.
DARRYL: ( going after him ) Come back here, you little shit!
LOUISE: ( to attendant ) Fill her up. ( to Thelma ) There's a phone right over there.
THELMA: Let's get it over with.
LOUISE: I'm not kidding, Thelma. If you think he knows, even if you're not sure, hang up.
DARRYL: EXT. PAY PHONE - NIGHT
THELMA: Darryl. It's me.
DARRYL: ( real friendly ) Thelma! Hello!
THELMA: ( matter-of-factly ) He knows.
HAL: Darryl still holds the phone in his hand.
DARRYL: What?! All I said was hello.
LOUISE: You got any change?
LOUISE: Darryl, this is Louise. Are the police there?
DARRYL: Uh, no! No, why would any police be here? Hey, where are you girls,
LOUISE: Let me talk to whoever's in charge What are you talking about, Louise?
DARRYL: What are you talking about, Louise?
HAL: Hello, Miss Sawyer. I'm Hal Slocumbe, Chief Investigator, Homicide, Arkansas State Police. How are you?
LOUISE: ( chuckling ) I've been better.
LOUISE: Yes, sir. I know.
HAL: You're both okay? Neither one of you hurt? You're bein' careful with that gun?
LOUISE: We're both fine.
LOUISE: Sure. Maybe over coffee sometime. I'll buy.
HAL: I just want you to know, neither one of you are charged with murder yet. You're still just wanted for questioning. Although, now, Mrs. Dickinson's wanted in Oklahoma for armed robbery.
LOUISE: No kiddin'. Listen, we gotta go. I'll call you back, all right?
LOUISE: That J.D. kid is a little shit.
THELMA: Louise stops as she is about to get in and faces Thelma who's standing on the other side of the car.
LOUISE: How'd they find out we're going to Mexico, Thelma, how they know that?
THELMA: I. I. You told that thievin' little shit where we were goin'?!
LOUISE: You told that thievin' little shit where we were goin'?!
THELMA: I just told him if he ever gets to Mexico to look us up. I asked him not to tell. I didn't think he would tell anybody.
LOUISE: Why not?! What's he got to lose? Other than my life's savings, that is. Shit!
THELMA: I'm sorry. I mean I.
LOUISE: Goddamnit, Thelma! Let me explain something to you. Right now we have only two things goin' for us. One, nobody knows where we are, and two, nobody knows where we're going. Now, one of our things that was going for us is gone!
LOUISE: Just stop talkin' to people, Thelma! Stop bein' so open! We're fugitives now. Let's behave that way!
THELMA: You're right.
THELMA: Now what?
LOUISE: Now what what?
THELMA: Whaddo we do?
LOUISE: Oh, I don't know, Thelma. I guess maybe we could turn ourselves in and spend our lives trading cigarettes for mascara so we can look nice when our families come to visit us on Saturdays. Maybe we could have children with the prison guards.
THELMA: I'm not suggestin' that! I'm not goin' back. No matter what happens. So don't worry about me.
THELMA: Can I ask you kind of a weird Of all the things in the world that scare you, what's the worst thing that scares you the most?
LOUISE: Of all the things in the world that scare you, what's the worst thing that scares you the most?
THELMA: Of all the things in the world that scare you, what's the worst thing that scares you the most?
LOUISE: You mean now or before?
THELMA: I guess I always thought the worst thing that could happen would be to end up old and alone in some crummy apartment with one of those little What little dogs?
LOUISE: I guess I always thought the worst thing that could happen would be to end up old and alone in some crummy apartment with one of those little What little dogs?
THELMA: What little dogs?
LOUISE: You know those little dogs you see people with?
THELMA: Like a Chihuahua?
LOUISE: Those, too, but you know those little hairy ones? Those flat-faced little fuckers with those ugly goddamned Oh yeah. You mean Peek-a-poos.
THELMA: Oh yeah. You mean Peek-a-poos.
LOUISE: Yeah. Those. That always put the fear of God in me. What about you?
THELMA: Well, to be honest, the idea of getting old with Darryl was kinda startin' to get to me.
LOUISE: I can see that.
THELMA: I mean, look how different he looks just since high school. It's bad enough I have to get old, but doin' it with Darryl around is only gonna make it worse. I mean, I don't think he's gonna be very nice about it.
LOUISE: Well, now, maybe you won't have to.
THELMA: Always lookin' on the bright side, aren't ya?
THELMA: This is so beautiful.
LOUISE: Gosh. It sure is.
THELMA: I always wanted to travel. I just never got the opportunity.
LOUISE: Well, you got it now.
LOUISE: Look! Look who it is, Thelma. I'll be darned. What's he doin' way out Just ignore him.
THELMA: Just ignore him.
LOUISE: Oh, Christ. I hate this guy.
THELMA: We should have just ignored him.
LOUISE: ( shaking with laughter ) Nothing. It's not funny.
THELMA: ( shaking with laughter ) Nothing. It's not funny.
LOUISE: What? What's not funny, Thelma!
THELMA: Okay, but. I can't say.
LOUISE: ( gasping for air ) What?! What about him?!
THELMA: ( gasping for air ) What?! What about him?!
LOUISE: What?! What about him?!
THELMA: Just the look on his face when you. .it's not funny.
LOUISE: ( shocked ) Now, Thelma, that is not.
THELMA: Boy, he wasn't expectin' that!
LOUISE: ( scolding ) ( impersonating Harlan ) Suck my dick. Boom!!
THELMA: ( impersonating Harlan ) Suck my dick. Boom!!
LOUISE: ( quietly ) Thelma. It's not funny.
THELMA: ( trying to catch her breath ) I know!
THELMA: ( carefully ) It happened to you. didn't it?
LOUISE: I don't want to talk about it! Thelma, I'm not kidding! Don't you .in Texas. didn't it? That's what happened. Oh my God.
THELMA: .in Texas. didn't it? That's what happened. Oh my God.
LOUISE: ( fighting hysteria ) I'm warning you, Thelma. You better drop it right now! I don't want to talk about it!
THELMA: ( gently ) Okay, Louise. It's okay.
LOUISE: Shit! Thelma, wake up! Shit! We're gettin' pulled over!
THELMA: What! What! Oh shit! Oh no!
THELMA: What do we do? What do you want to I don't know! Shit! Let's just play it by ear. He may not know. He may just give me a ticket.
LOUISE: I don't know! Shit! Let's just play it by ear. He may not know. He may just give me a ticket.
THELMA: Please, God, please don't let us get caught. Please, please, please. Turn off your engine.
LOUISE: Hello, Officer. Is there a problem?
PATROLMAN: You wanna let me see your license,
PATROLMAN: You wanna take it out of your wallet, Oh yeah.
LOUISE: Oh yeah.
THELMA: I told you to slow down. Hell, Officer, I told her to slow down.
LOUISE: About how fast was I going?
PATROLMAN: About a hundred and ten. You wanna step out of the car, please? Is this your car?
PATROLMAN: Is this your car?
LOUISE: You wanna come with me, please? Walk around and get in the car, In the back?
PATROLMAN: You wanna come with me, please? Walk around and get in the car, In the back?
LOUISE: In the back?
PATROLMAN: Am I in trouble?
LOUISE: Am I in trouble?
PATROLMAN: As far as I'm concerned, yes, ma'am, you are.
THELMA: Officer, I am so sorry about this. Could you let go of that?
THELMA: I really, really apologize, but please put your hands on the steering wheel. See, if you get on that radio, you're gonna find out that we're wanted in two states and probably considered armed and dangerous, at least I am, then our whole plan would be shot to hell. Louise, take his gun.
LOUISE: ( apologetic ) I am really sorry about this.
THELMA: I swear, before yesterday, neither one of us would have ever pulled a stunt like this. But if you ever met my husband, you'd know why I just can. You wanna step out of the car, please? You wanna put your hands on your head, please? Louise, shoot the Shoot the radio! The police radio, Louise! Jesus!
LOUISE: Shoot the radio! The police radio, Louise! Jesus!
THELMA: Shoot the radio! The police radio, Louise! Jesus!
THELMA: The police radio, Louise! Jesus!
THELMA: You wanna step to the back of the car, please. Louise, bring the keys.
THELMA: ( to Louise ) Open the trunk.
THELMA: ( to Patrolman ) You wanna step into the trunk, please?
PATROLMAN: Ma'am, please. I got kids. a You do? Well, you're lucky. You be sweet to 'em. Especially your wife. My husband wasn't sweet to me and look how I turned out. Now go on, get in there.
THELMA: You do? Well, you're lucky. You be sweet to 'em. Especially your wife. My husband wasn't sweet to me and look how I turned out. Now go on, get in there.
THELMA: Air holes.
THELMA: ( to trunk ) ( from her car ) Hit it.
LOUISE: ( from her car ) Hit it.
LOUISE: Hit it.
THELMA: Hit it.
THELMA: ( shaking her head ) I know it's crazy, Louise, but I just feel like I've got a knack for this shit.
LOUISE: I believe you.
MAX: It's just not working like this. We gotta do something. It'd be one thing if these girls were hardened criminals, but Jesus, Hal, this is makin' us look bad. I don't know. maybe they're not movin'. Maybe that little creep lied.
HAL: He's got nothin' to gain by lyin'. Nothin' at all. He already got all their money. I just don't know what we're dealin' with here. Anyway, it went out again last night on Nationwide Teletype. Let's just wait it out a little longer. She said she was gonna call back. Let's just sit tight.
MAX: We don't have a whole lotta choice, do we? I can't figure out if they're real smart or just really, really It don't matter. Brains will only get you so far and luck always runs
HAL: It don't matter. Brains will only get you so far and luck always runs
THELMA: Louise. are we still going to
LOUISE: Thelma pauses while she searches for the logic.
THELMA: Then aren't we going in the wrong Well, I figure if you take a state policeman, shoot up his car, take his gun and lock him in the trunk, it's best to just get on out of the state if you can.
LOUISE: Well, I figure if you take a state policeman, shoot up his car, take his gun and lock him in the trunk, it's best to just get on out of the state if you can.
THELMA: Just asking.
LOUISE: I don't want to see any more beef jerky. I mean the next beef jerky you hand me is going out the window. It's drivin' me crazy. The whole car smells like it.
THELMA: It's good. It's what the pioneers I don't care what the damn pioneers ate. You just keep that shit away from me, now I mean it.
LOUISE: I don't care what the damn pioneers ate. You just keep that shit away from me, now I mean it.
LOUISE: And I don't want any more Wild Turkey, either. It's burning a hole in my Okay, okay. I've got some tequila. You want some tequila?
THELMA: Okay, okay. I've got some tequila. You want some tequila?
LOUISE: You do?
THELMA: Yeah, you want it?
LOUISE: Thelma starts to dig through her bag again.
THELMA: It's in here somewhere.
LOUISE: Shit. I'm gettin' tired.
THELMA: Are you alright?
LOUISE: I think I've really fucked up. I think I've got us in a situation where we could both get killed. Why didn't we just go straight to the You know why. You already said.
THELMA: You know why. You already said.
LOUISE: What'd I say again?
THELMA: Nobody would believe us. We'd still get in trouble. We'd still have our lives ruined. And you know what That guy was hurtin' me. And if you hadn't come out when you did, he'd a hurt me a lot worse. And probably nothin' woulda happened to him. 'Cause everybody did see me dancin' with him all night. And they woulda made out like I asked for it. And my life woulda been ruined a whole lot worse than it is now. At least now I'm havin' fun. And I'm not sorry the son of a bitch is dead. I'm only sorry that it was you that did it and not me. And if I haven't, I wanna take this time to thank you, Louise. Thank you for savin' my I said all that?
LOUISE: That guy was hurtin' me. And if you hadn't come out when you did, he'd a hurt me a lot worse. And probably nothin' woulda happened to him. 'Cause everybody did see me dancin' with him all night. And they woulda made out like I asked for it. And my life woulda been ruined a whole lot worse than it is now. At least now I'm havin' fun. And I'm not sorry the son of a bitch is dead. I'm only sorry that it was you that did it and not me. And if I haven't, I wanna take this time to thank you, Louise. Thank you for savin' my I said all that?
THELMA: That guy was hurtin' me. And if you hadn't come out when you did, he'd a hurt me a lot worse. And probably nothin' woulda happened to him. 'Cause everybody did see me dancin' with him all night. And they woulda made out like I asked for it. And my life woulda been ruined a whole lot worse than it is now. At least now I'm havin' fun. And I'm not sorry the son of a bitch is dead. I'm only sorry that it was you that did it and not me. And if I haven't, I wanna take this time to thank you, Louise. Thank you for savin' my I said all that?
LOUISE: I said all that?
THELMA: No, Louise, you said the first part. I said all the rest.
LOUISE: ( tired )
MAX: LOUISE ( V.O. )
MAX: ( to Hal ) She wants to talk to you.
HAL: Hello, Louise.
LOUISE: HAL ( V.O. )
LOUISE: Weird. Got some kind of snowball effect goin' here or somethin'.
LOUISE: Well, we're not in the middle of nowhere, but we can see it from here.
HAL: I swear. Louise, I almost feel like I know you.
HAL: You're gettin' in deeper every moment you're gone.
HAL: I do believe you. That's what I want everybody to believe. Trouble is, it doesn't look like an accident and you're not here to tell me about it. I need you to help me here.
LOUISE: ( interrupting ) You want to come on in?
LOUISE: I don't think so.
HAL: Then I'm sorry. We're gonna have to charge you with murder. Now, do you want to come out of this alive?
LOUISE: You know, certain words and phrases just keep floating through my mind, things like incarceration, cavity search, life imprisonment, death by electrocution, that sort of thing. So, come out alive? I don't know. Let us think about that.
THELMA: Come on, Louise. Don't blow it. Let's go.
THELMA: Come on.
HAL: Max. You gotta take me there! I'm. I'm the only one she's ever talked to. I don't want anybody losin' their heads. You know what happens. The volume gets turned way up and the next thing you know those girls are gonna get shot.
MAX: ( calmly ) Okay, Hal, okay.
THELMA: Yes, Thelma?
LOUISE: Yes, Thelma?
THELMA: You're not gonna give up on me, are What do you mean?
LOUISE: What do you mean?
THELMA: You're not gonna make some deal with that guy, are you? I mean, I just wanna know.
LOUISE: No, Thelma. I'm not gonna make any I can understand if you're thinkin' about it. I mean, in a way, you've got something to go back for. I mean Jimmy and everything.
THELMA: I can understand if you're thinkin' about it. I mean, in a way, you've got something to go back for. I mean Jimmy and everything.
LOUISE: Thelma, that is not an option.
THELMA: But I don't know. something's crossed over in me and I can't go back. I mean, I just couldn't live.
LOUISE: I know. I know what you mean. I don't wanna end up on the damn Geraldo
LOUISE: He said they're charging us with And we have to decide whether we want to come out of this dead or Gosh, didn't he say anything positive at all?
THELMA: ( making a face ) And we have to decide whether we want to come out of this dead or Gosh, didn't he say anything positive at all?
LOUISE: And we have to decide whether we want to come out of this dead or Gosh, didn't he say anything positive at all?
THELMA: Gosh, didn't he say anything positive at all?
THELMA: Louise, do you think we should change cars, get another car?
LOUISE: Sure. You know how to hotwire a Well, let me know when you figure it
THELMA: Well, let me know when you figure it
LOUISE: Well, let me know when you figure it
THELMA: You awake?
LOUISE: You could call it that. My eyes are Me too. I feel awake.
THELMA: Me too. I feel awake.
LOUISE: Wide awake. I don't remember ever feelin' this awake. Everything looks different. You know what I mean. I know you know what I mean. Everything looks new. Do you feel like that? Like you've got something to look forward to?
THELMA: Wide awake. I don't remember ever feelin' this awake. Everything looks different. You know what I mean. I know you know what I mean. Everything looks new. Do you feel like that? Like you've got something to look forward to?
LOUISE: We'll be drinkin' margaritas by the sea, Mamasita.
THELMA: We can change our names.
LOUISE: We can live in a hacienda.
THELMA: I wanna get a job. I wanna work at Club Med.
LOUISE: Yes! Yes! Now what kind of deal do you think that cop can come up with to beat that?
THELMA: It'd have to be pretty good.
LOUISE: It would have to be pretty damn good.
LOUISE: We should head a little further in. There's not that many roads in this state. I want to try to hit Mexico somewhere not so close to New Mexico. They probably wanna kill us in New You're drivin'.
THELMA: You're drivin'.
THELMA: ( screaming over music ) Oh my God! Louise! Look! Look! See if that's him!
LOUISE: It's him. He's got California plates. It's the same guy.
THELMA: Pass him!
THELMA: Hi there! You alright?
TRUCKER: Hi there! You alright?
THELMA: We're fine! How are you?
TRUCKER: Follow us.
LOUISE: Follow us.
THELMA: Where you goin'?
TRUCKER: We been seein' you all along the Yeah. I been seein' you, too.
LOUISE: We been seein' you all along the Yeah. I been seein' you, too.
TRUCKER: Yeah. I been seein' you, too.
THELMA: We think you have really bad manners.
LOUISE: We were just wonderin' where you think you get off behavin' like that to women you don't even know.
TRUCKER: What? What are you talkin' about?
LOUISE: You know good and damn well what I'm talkin' about.
THELMA: I mean really! That business with your tongue. What is that? That's And, oh my God, that other thing, that pointing to your lap? What's that supposed to mean exactly? Does that mean pull over, I want to show you what a big fat slob I am or.
LOUISE: And, oh my God, that other thing, that pointing to your lap? What's that supposed to mean exactly? Does that mean pull over, I want to show you what a big fat slob I am or.
THELMA: Does that mean suck my dick?
TRUCKER: You women are crazy!
LOUISE: You got that right.
THELMA: We think you should apologize.
TRUCKER: I'm not apologizing for shit!
LOUISE: Say you're sorry.
TRUCKER: Fuck that.
LOUISE: Say you're sorry or we'll make you fuckin' sorry.
TRUCKER: Oh, Jesus!
THELMA: You probably even called us beavers on your CB radio, didn't you?
TRUCKER: Yeah. sure did.
THELMA: Damn. I hate that! I hate bein' called a beaver, don't you?
LOUISE: Are you going to apologize or not?
TRUCKER: Fuck you.
TRUCKER: Oh goddamn!! You bitch!!
TRUCKER: You fucking bitch! Aaaaaaarrrgghh!!! You're gonna have to pay for that!!! I'm gonna make you pay for that!! You hear me??!!
THELMA: Shut up.
THELMA: Hey. Where'd you learn to shoot like that?
LOUISE: Texas. You were right about what happened to me there.
MAX: You're not even going to believe
THELMA: Oh shit. Louise. Do you think he saw us?
LOUISE: I don't know, but let's get off.
LOUISE: Is your seat belt on?
THELMA: I guess we shoulda made some kinda plan for what to do if we get caught.
LOUISE: Yeah, right. We're not gonna get
POLICEMAN #1: .requesting assistance. In pursuit of a green T-Bird, 1966 license, seven, one, nine, William, Zebra, Roger. Be advised. .armed and extremely dangerous.
THELMA: How far are we from Mexico?
LOUISE: About two hundred and fifty miles.
THELMA: How long do you think that'll take?
THELMA: We're going to Mexico!
THELMA: ( looking back ) Uh oh. There's another one.
LOUISE: Did you see that guy?! He was right in the middle of the road!
THELMA: Did you see that guy?! He was right in the middle of the road!
LOUISE: ( looking in rearview mirror ) What?! What d'you think?!
THELMA: What?! What d'you think?!
LOUISE: What?! What d'you think?!
THELMA: EXT. DESERT GHOST TOWN - DAY Louise and Thelma blow through a stand of buildings left from when the train went through here. There are two parallel streets on either side of the one they're on and, as they pass by buildings, they can see police cars ROARING down these parallel streets trying to "head them off at the pass." Louise FLOORS it and her car screams ahead.
LOUISE: We probably shoulda filled up the car before we blew up that truck.
THELMA: They'll probably catch us when we have to stop for gas!
LOUISE: They'll probably catch us when we have to stop for gas!
THELMA: I know this whole thing was my fault. I know it is.
LOUISE: There's one thing you oughta understand by now, Thelma, it's not your fault.
THELMA: Louise. no matter what happens, I'm glad I came with you.
LOUISE: You're crazy.
THELMA: You're a good friend.
LOUISE: You too, sweetie, the best.
THELMA: I guess I went a little crazy, huh?
LOUISE: No. You've always been crazy. This is just the first chance you've had to really express yourself.
THELMA: I guess everything from here on in is going to be pretty shitty.
LOUISE: Unbearable, I'd imagine.
THELMA: I guess everything we've got to lose is already gone anyway.
LOUISE: How do you stay so positive?
THELMA: What in the hell is that up there?
LOUISE: What in the hell is that up there?
THELMA: What in the hell is that up there?
LOUISE: Way up ahead!
THELMA: Way up ahead!
LOUISE: Oh my God!!
THELMA: What in the hell is it?!
LOUISE: It's the Goddamn Grand Canyon!
THELMA: Isn't it beautiful?!!
LOUISE: It's grand!
THELMA: God! It looks like the Army!
LOUISE: All this for us?
HAL'S POV: He sees Thelma and Louise facing each other. They look so nice. He can't stop looking. He borrows the binoculars from Max. He sees Thelma and Louise in the car. Some of the police sharpshooters are sporting semi-automatic rifles. Hal looks at Max.
HAL: Hey! Don't let them shoot those girls. This is too much. They got guns pointed at 'em!
MAX: The women are armed, Hal. This is standard. Now you stay calm here. These boys know what they're doin'.
THELMA: Now what?
LOUISE: We're not giving up, Thelma.
THELMA: Then let's not get caught.
LOUISE: What are you talkin' about?
THELMA: ( indicating the Grand Canyon )
LOUISE: Thelma is smiling at her.
THELMA: They look at each other, look back at the wall of police cars, and then look back at each other. They smile.
HAL: Max! Let me talk to 'em! I can't believe this! You've gotta do something here!
HAL: I'm sorry to bother you, I know you're real busy right now, but how many times, Max? How many times has that woman gotta be fucked over? You could lift one finger and save her ass and you won't even do that?
MAX: ( grabbing Hal ) Get a hold of yourself! You are way out of your jurisdiction, now come on! Calm down! Don't make me sorry I let you come!
HAL: ( under his breath ) Shit! I can't fucking believe this!
MAX: ( shouting ) Hey. Hey!
ARIZONA #2: ( lowering his rifle ) The son of a bitch is in my way!
THELMA: You're a good friend.
LOUISE: You, too, sweetie, the best.
LOUISE: Are you sure?
THELMA: Hit it.
FADE OUT: THE END
THE END: Writers : Callie Khouri
