JAMES CRUICKSHANK: November 1986
FOR EDUCATIONAL: PURPOSES ONLY FADE IN: 1 INT. AIRPLANE - DAY 1 On a chartered plane flying from Miami to Newark Airport. JACK is the captain. His copilot PAUL is seated beside him. In the passenger cabin, a female gymnastics team is celebrating a hard-won, glorious victory over the Miami team. They are singing, dancing in the aisles and drinking champagne. In the rear of the cabin, there are three regular pass- engers: a teenager, his mother, and a man who appears to be a BUSINESSMAN. The plane is flying over the coastline. The partition between the cockpit and the passenger cabin is open. Jack is very excited. He can't stop turning around to look at the passengers.
PURPOSES ONLY: THREE MEN AND A BABY
JACK: ( to Paul ) Oh my God! I can't believe my eyes! Look at these women! Will you look at the gorgeous calves on them?! I'm telling you, give me an athlete any day. Oh God! Look at that redhead over there, and look at that one! Christ, I hadn't noticed her. ( miming a heart Paul, I've just fallen madly in love with the most beautiful woman in the world.
PAUL: ( totally Oh yeah? Which one?
JACK: ( as though about The blonde over there, she's too gorgeous for words. Just look at those eyes, look at those shoulders and the way she moves. I'm in love. Here, take over, I'll be right back.
JACK: Hello. I'm the captain of this plane. May I ask your name?
GIRL: Sure, my name is Jane. Why?
JACK: Listen, Jane, I've seen many beautiful women in my life but I swear to you, I've never, ever met a woman as exquisite as you
JACK: Jane, can you feel my heart? It's pounding. This is horrible, I think I'm gonna faint. Listen: I'm madly in love with you, I'm single and here's my phone number.
JACK: I'm putting my fate in your hands. If you don't call me, you'll make me the most miserable man on earth. This is no line and I'm not trying to get you into bed. This is something completely different. I love you Jane and if you call me I'll be the happiest man in the entire universe this is 'love at first sight.' Out of all these beautiful women I noticed only you, and.
BUSINESSMAN: Are you Paul?
JACK: No, I'm not.
BUSINESSMAN: But you're the pilot, aren't you?
JACK: Yes, I'm the pilot. . I'm not even asking for your phone number.
BUSINESSMAN: Isn't there a pilot whose name is Yeah, the copilot he's up I'm leaving it all up to you, Jane, but if you do give me your phone number, then Jane,
JACK: ( annoyed ) Yeah, the copilot he's up I'm leaving it all up to you, Jane, but if you do give me your phone number, then Jane,
JACK: ( back to Jane ) I'm leaving it all up to you, Jane, but if you do give me your phone number, then Jane,
BUSINESSMAN: ( in a low tone ) Are you Paul?
PAUL: ( turning around Yeah. Are you Jim?
BUSINESSMAN: He hands Paul a man's purse.
BUSINESSMAN: Here's your cash.
PAUL: What about the stuff?
BUSINESSMAN: I don't have it. We've got problems. Too much heat. Too
PAUL: Whadda ya mean us? You mean me?
BUSINESSMAN: I mean shut up and listen. Two guys will be waiting for you in a black T-Bird, expecting the dope. Just ignore them. It'll be delivered to you on Sunday and picked up the following Thursday, okay?
PAUL: But I won't be home, I'll be in the air for two weeks.
BUSINESSMAN: That's your problem. Make arrangements, a deal's a deal. Got it!?
PAUL: Got it.
JACK: ( bursting with I got her phone number! She gave me her phone number!
BUSINESSMAN: That's some magnificent view, isn't it?
JACK: It's wonderful Life is
JACK: This is your captain speaking. In honor of your victory, in honor of your beauty, and in honor of Jane, the most beautiful gymnast I have ever met. I'm going to give you a little demonstration of aviation gymnastics reserved only for the most important guest, hip, hip.
JACK: God, what a woman!
JACK: Wanna share a cab? Yeah, sure!
JACK: She's so beautiful! I've never been so in love before. Can you believe she gave me her phone number. Oh, Christ where is it?. Oh, no, don't tell me I lost it. It's a matter of life and death. Oh here it is thank God!
GRATON: They're slowing down. Take a
PAUL: Listen, I need a favor, I got
JACK: Yeah, sure. Hey, look, will you look at that sparkling beauty.
PAUL: Yeah. I mean, it's like. There's this little package.
JACK: She'll never make it with all that luggage she's got. I gotta give her a hand. Look at the colors in her hair! Christ, I've never seen a woman like her
PAUL: Jack, listen, can I.
JACK: Sure you can, no problem. Listen, I gotta go now, I'm gonna see if she'll share a cab with me. You take the shuttle, But I gotta explain to you Come over to my place tonight. We're having a huge party. Come around 9, okay? See ya later.
PAUL: But I gotta explain to you Come over to my place tonight. We're having a huge party. Come around 9, okay? See ya later.
JACK: Come over to my place tonight. We're having a huge party. Come around 9, okay? See ya later.
JACK: As exquisite as you are. I think I'm gonna faint.
JACK: ( whispering This is no line and I'm not trying to get you into bed. This is something completely different. This is 'love at first sight.' Oh, I'm so happy. Let me go get you a glass of champagne. I'll be right back.
SOPHIA: Are you saying that's art, are you really saying that's art? Well then you explain why.
MICHAEL: It goes back to prehistoric man. They had comic strips on their walls, for God's sake.
JACK: ( whispering I'm having a hard time. I'm working on two at once.
MICHAEL: ( very interested ) Oh yeah, who?
JACK: The brunette in the armchair in the living room her name's And the other one?
MICHAEL: And the other one?
JACK: Clementine she's waiting for me in the den.
MICHAEL: ( to Sophia ) Wait one second for me, I'll be right back.
NICOLE: You guys have a beautiful place here. But the rent must be a
NICOLE: Isn't it a killer?
PETER: PETER ( CONT'D )
PAUL: Hi Peter, I'm looking for Jack, have you seen him?
PETER: Oh hi, Paul, how are you doing? Yeah, sure, I'll take you to Excuse me for a minute.
PETER: You're a lifesaver, I've been trying to get away from that woman
PAUL: Wait What about Jack?
PETER: ( in a hurry ) He's around somewhere. Check under all the couches.
PETER: Oh Natalie, I've been looking for you all night.
CARL: All night? I just saw you deep in conversation with Nicole!
PETER: Deep? Hell no, we were just talking shop.
NATALIE: Oh come on Peter, we all know what a ladies' man you are.
PETER: Who, me? Jack's the ladies' man, not me. You're the only lady I'm So tell me, how's your project coming along? I heard you're not ready yet.
CARL: ( interrupting ) So tell me, how's your project coming along? I heard you're not ready yet.
PETER: We've still got two weeks left before the semi-finals. We'll be ready.
CARL: We've been ready for three days now. We're gonna kick your ass.
NATALIE: Their project is really incredible.
PETER: Oh really? You've seen it?
NATALIE: ( smiling broadly No, it's top secret but he's been telling me about it.
PETER: ( in a bad mood ) Ours is incredible too.
CARL: If you ever get it finished. Jack, can I talk to you for a Oh, hi, Paul, yeah sure.
PAUL: Jack, can I talk to you for a Oh, hi, Paul, yeah sure.
JACK: Oh, hi, Paul, yeah sure.
JACK: You're a lifesaver, Paul. I thought I'd never get away. Rosalie's waiting for me in the living room. Isn't she Who? Rosalie?
PAUL: Who? Rosalie?
JACK: Oh yeah, for sure, I dunno. Listen, can you do me a favor?
PAUL: Oh yeah, for sure, I dunno. Listen, can you do me a favor?
JACK: Damn, I've got to get her a glass of champagne.
PAUL: I'm having a valuable package delivered to me on Sunday, but I'm not going to be home. I've got to do the Hawaii-Tahiti-Australia route, so can I have the package delivered here instead?
JACK: ( filling a glass Yeah, sure, of course. ( he stops, No, wait, I'm leaving for South America tomorrow. I'll be gone for three weeks.
PAUL: about it?
JACK: a thing.
PAUL: picked up next Thursday, okay?
JACK: Thursday. Got it. No problem.
PAUL: Jack. It's very important they don't tell anybody about this package. It could be very. uh, embarrassing for me, you know what I'm saying?
JACK: Jack is about to rejoin Rosalie. Paul grabs his arm.
PAUL: Not to anyone at all. Tell them that, okay?
JACK: Okay, sure, not to anyone at all. Look, I'm sorry Paul, but I gotta get back to Rosalie. Now go have a good time. I'll take care of everything.
PAUL: Bye and thanks a lot.
JACK: Don't mention it.
JACK: Uh-oh. Too late.
MICHAEL: All's fair, old buddy.
JACK: ( singing ) Oh my darling, oh my darling, oh my darling Clementine.
PETER: Natalie, why don't you stay for a No, I've gotta get up early.
NATALIE: No, I've gotta get up early.
CARL: ( to Natalie ) Do you care to share a cab?
NATALIE: Oh yes, thanks that's really nice of you.
CARL: ( smiling Good night, Peter.
PETER: ( with a forced Good night, Carl. I'll call you Sunday, Natalie.
MICHAEL: So you struck out again with Natalie, huh? That Carl is a real smooth operator.
PETER: He's an asshole! 'I heard you're not ready yet.' 'We're gonna kick your ass.' Well, we may be behind schedule, but we're still going to beat that sonofabitch and maybe I haven't scored with Natalie yet, but neither has he. She's not an easy lay, that's what I like about her. You know what they say: it ain't over till it's over.
MICHAEL: Well, I didn't do so well either I blew it with Rosalie. I don't even know how.
PETER: Who's Rosalie?
MICHAEL: That beauty I managed to swipe
PETER: Your old friend Sophia appeared and got you involved in a thrilling conversation about modern art, and meanwhile Rosalie.
MICHAEL: How could you know that?
PETER: Michael, all you want to do is steal Jack's girl friends. You don't give a shit about the women That's not true. It's just that Sophia drives me crazy. She knows all the right buttons to push to make me mad.
MICHAEL: That's not true. It's just that Sophia drives me crazy. She knows all the right buttons to push to make me mad.
PETER: ( going into the Anyway, it was a great party, everyone had a good time.
MICHAEL: ( still in the living Terrific. time.
PETER: Where's Jack? Did he leave?
MICHAEL: No, he's cuddling up with a blonde named Clementine.
PETER: That's not Clementine. I saw him doing his famous routine with No, it is Clementine, the one with the tits this big.
MICHAEL: No, it is Clementine, the one with the tits this big.
PETER: Christie's got tits that big, Yeah, but he was with Christie at the beginning of the evening after that he was with Rosalie and then with Clementine. And since I stole Rosalie away from him. Are you following this?
MICHAEL: Yeah, but he was with Christie at the beginning of the evening after that he was with Rosalie and then with Clementine. And since I stole Rosalie away from him. Are you following this?
PETER: I'm not.
JACK: Nice work if you can get it, and you can get it if you try. Any scotch left?
PETER: Yeah, here, I just put it away.
JACK: Sorry I can't give you guys a hand, but I've got something I thought you were leaving at dawn for South America?
PETER: I thought you were leaving at dawn for South America?
JACK: I am, the night's still young!. It's gonna be a lively one. I'm gonna make us a little snack.
MICHAEL: So, who is it anyway Christie or Clementine?
JACK: Maxine. Beautiful, enchanting
JACK: Hey, Michael how'd it go with Well, things were going great Your old friend Sophia appeared and dragged you into a thrilling conversation about modern art and in the meantime Rosalie took off with someone else.
MICHAEL: Well, things were going great Your old friend Sophia appeared and dragged you into a thrilling conversation about modern art and in the meantime Rosalie took off with someone else.
JACK: Your old friend Sophia appeared and dragged you into a thrilling conversation about modern art and in the meantime Rosalie took off with someone else.
MICHAEL: How did you know?
JACK: I dunno lucky guess.
MICHAEL: Well, I don't give a damn anyway, I have 24 drawings to hand in to my editor three days from now and I gotta work all night anyway. So it was all for the best. But you better not leave that Maxine's phone number lying around because when I'm done.
JACK: Don't worry, I'll leave you her phone number on the hall table. If she's really terrific I'll put a big 'X' next to it. 'Bye, guys love ya. I won't wake you tomorrow morning. See you in three weeks.
JACK: Damn! I forgot to tell them about the package! I gotta make a quick phone call. I'll be right back.
RON: ( knowingly ) Jack, there'll be plenty of girls where we're going.
JACK: Oh, c'mon, I've really got to make a phone call! What do you think I'm going to do, pick up one of the New Jersey delegates to the I.B.M. convention?
JERRY: The model's not finished, the blueprints are a mess and you may as well forget the specs, they're a disaster! I know we're talented. I know we're good. Then why is it we can never get organized? Why is it we're always behind schedule?
JAY: Look, Jerry, architects since Leonardo have always been behind schedule. It's a tradition, for
JERRY: Because this is the chance of a lifetime for our company, and there happens to be a deadline. There are millions of dollars at stake here. And our main competition had their project in three days ago!
PETER: Yeah, but word around town is their project's a piece of Of course, it's a piece of shit, but it's a ready piece of shit.
JERRY: Of course, it's a piece of shit, but it's a ready piece of shit.
JAY: We're just going to have to buckle down, that's all.
JERRY: You're damn right we are. Starting now, everybody works around the clock! Everybody! We have two weeks to be ready for the semi- final selection. And we will be ready. And we will win. You want to know why we'll win?
JAY: Because we're gonna cheat.
PETER: I'll go bribe the judges!
JERRY: I don't think this is a joking matter, gentlemen.
PETER: Come on, Jerry. A SECRETARY enters.
SECRETARY: There's an urgent call for you, I'm not in.
PETER: I'm not in.
SECRETARY: It's Jack he says it's 'super Peter picks up the phone.
PETER: Hi. yeah. listen, make it quick, I'm in a meeting here. yeah, a package. okay. someone'll drop it off Sunday and pick it up Thursday. No problem . yeah. we'll put it aside, okay. no, no, we won't tell anybody about it. Is that it?. Right, we won't tell anyone. Hey love 'n' kisses to the Brazilian girls, vaya con dios, old buddy. Peter hangs up, laughing. Jerry gives him a dirty look.
PETER: 10 INT. APARTMENT - DAY 10
PETER: I'm going out for bagels how many you want, three or four?
MICHAEL: ( opening one eye ) What time is it?
PETER: A.M. or P.M.?
MICHAEL: A.M. or P.M.?
PETER: A.M. C'mon, up 'n' at 'em.
MICHAEL: Up 'n' at 'em yourself, asshole I just went to bed.
PETER: Did you finish?
MICHAEL: Nah, I didn't get anywhere.
PETER: Well then. nap time's over. Back to work. So how many bagels, three or four?
MICHAEL: Six, six!
PETER: ( to himself ) You gotta be kidding!
PETER: Michael! Michael!
MICHAEL: ( still groggy ) Get your ass out here and see what's on the doorstep. ( mutters ) This has gotta be somebody's idea of a joke!
PETER: Get your ass out here and see what's on the doorstep. This has gotta be somebody's idea of a joke!
MICHAEL: What is it?
PETER: Look for yourself.
MICHAEL: It's a basket with a baby in it.
PETER: ( reads Michael the 'Dearest Jack, here is the fruit of our love. Take good care of her. I have to go to Europe and Japan for six months, her name is Mary. Good luck, Love, Sylvia.'
MICHAEL: have her phone number?
PETER: have her phone number?
MICHAEL: have her phone number?
PETER: have her phone number?
MICHAEL: number? I've never even heard of this chick!
SYLVIA: number? I've never even heard of this chick!
MICHAEL: number? I've never even heard of this chick!
PETER: of all Jack's girlfriends, I'd have to be a full-time secretary.
MICHAEL: of all Jack's girlfriends, I'd have to be a full-time secretary.
PETER: Hey, look, she's crying.
MICHAEL: Hey, look, she's crying.
PETER: She's not gonna start to cry now?!
MICHAEL: Uh-oh, now she's really crying!
PETER: ( exploding ) Oh no, I swear to God this is unreal! Can you believe that bastard Jack?! 'A little package,' he tells me on the phone, 'just put it aside till Thursday.' Put it aside can you believe him!?
MICHAEL: ( exploding ) Oh no, I swear to God this is unreal! Can you believe that bastard Jack?! 'A little package,' he tells me on the phone, 'just put it aside till Thursday.' Put it aside can you believe him!?
PETER: ( exploding ) Oh no, I swear to God this is unreal! Can you believe that bastard Jack?! 'A little package,' he tells me on the phone, 'just put it aside till Thursday.' Put it aside can you believe him!?
MICHAEL: ( exploding ) Oh no, I swear to God this is unreal! Can you believe that bastard Jack?! 'A little package,' he tells me on the phone, 'just put it aside till Thursday.' Put it aside can you believe him!?
PETER: ( exploding ) Oh no, I swear to God this is unreal! Can you believe that bastard Jack?! 'A little package,' he tells me on the phone, 'just put it aside till Thursday.' Put it aside can you believe him!?
MICHAEL: ( exploding ) Oh no, I swear to God this is unreal! Can you believe that bastard Jack?! 'A little package,' he tells me on the phone, 'just put it aside till Thursday.' Put it aside can you believe him!?
PETER: ( exploding ) Oh no, I swear to God this is unreal! Can you believe that bastard Jack?! 'A little package,' he tells me on the phone, 'just put it aside till Thursday.' Put it aside can you believe him!?
MICHAEL: anyone about it anyone at all.'
PETER: anyone about it anyone at all.'
MICHAEL: be coming today, but he didn't say it'd be this!
PETER: be coming today, but he didn't say it'd be this!
MICHAEL: ( very angrily ) Boy, he's got a helluva nerve!
PETER: making! What are we s'posed to Let's call Jack's mother!
MICHAEL: ( brilliant idea ) Let's call Jack's mother!
PETER: She lives in Miami for Christsake. She can't stop the baby crying from Miami.
MICHAEL: Well, just to ask her advice.
PETER: No, he said not to tell anyone.
MICHAEL: But this is an emergency!
PETER: No! No way! You know what a pain that woman is she'll be on the next plane here to move in with Maybe I should call my mother.
MICHAEL: Maybe I should call my mother.
PETER: No, please leave the mothers out of this, okay?! It's only four days. We should be able to handle that, besides you know the rule around here: it's fine to have a woman over once in a while, but. Michael finishes the sentence in unison with him.
PETER: And that includes mothers! Peter steps over the basket and heads towards the Where are you going?!
MICHAEL: Where are you going?!
PETER: I'm going to the store to buy some baby food.
MICHAEL: What am I supposed to do while you're gone?
PETER: Pick her up and hold her.
MICHAEL: ( panic-stricken ) Whaddya mean, pick her up? I've never held a baby I'll drop
PETER: What aisle's baby food on?
CLERK: Down there by the meat section.
MICHAEL: Okay, okay, don't cry like that. I'll hold you, I'll hold you.
PETER: So what's the best brand?
STORE CLERK: But which one sells the most?
PETER: But which one sells the most?
STORE CLERK: ( pointing to a This kind.
PETER: STORE CLERK STORE CLERK ( pointing to another can ) STORE CLERK STORE CLERK
STORE CLERK: STORE CLERK ( pointing to another can ) STORE CLERK STORE CLERK
PETER: STORE CLERK ( pointing to another can ) STORE CLERK STORE CLERK
STORE CLERK: ( pointing to another Oh, okay, then I can take this iron in them?
PETER: ( pointing to another Oh, okay, then I can take this iron in them?
STORE CLERK: STORE CLERK
PETER: STORE CLERK
STORE CLERK: iron in them?
PETER: iron in them?
STORE CLERK: ( pointing to yet Oh, okay, well I'll take this kind then.
PETER: ( pointing to yet Oh, okay, well I'll take this kind then.
STORE CLERK: in it.
PETER: Oh, I see, there's milk with no milk in it?
STORE CLERK: Some babies are allergic to milk.
PETER: So what's the stuff that no babies are allergic to?
STORE CLERK: Soy formula.
PETER: Oh, okay, I'll take the soy formula.
STORE CLERK: That one's Advance.
PETER: Oh really? What's Advance?
STORE CLERK: How old's your baby?
PETER: ( Peter tries to Uh. about this old.
MICHAEL: Rock-a-bye baby on the tree top.
WOMAN #1: Does she have any teeth yet or not? That would give us a clue as to how old she is.
PETER: I haven't looked.
STORE CLERK: ( coolly disagree- My grandson's only five months old and he already has two teeth. But my daughter didn't have a single one at seven months so, y'know, how many teeth they have. doesn't mean a thing.
WOMAN #2: But didn't those friends of yours tell you what formula they usually give the baby?
PETER: ( embarrassed ) No, actually they had to leave unexpectedly. They had to catch a plane.
WOMAN #1: ( to Peter ) Is she teething?
PETER: WOMAN #1
WOMAN #1: Does she drool? Does she cry all night long? Does she chew on her fists? Does she put everything into her mouth?
PETER: I know she can't talk.
WOMAN #2: But didn't those friends of yours tell you how old she was?
PETER: ( as Woman #2 is I told you they had to leave would tell you how old she is.
WOMAN #1: would tell you how old she is.
STORE CLERK: weighs more than my neighbor's grandson and he's nine months old. So, y'know, how much they weigh. doesn't mean a thing.
PETER: WOMAN #2
WOMAN #2: pediatrician's name?
PETER: ( still calm ) No. They didn't.
WOMAN #2: WOMAN #1
PETER: WOMAN #1
WOMAN #1: lots of hair?
STORE CLERK: much hair you can make a ponytail with it! And I know some kids who are totally bald at a year- and-a-half. So, y'know, how much hair they have. doesn't mean a Gee, he's really something, your grandson is he good at math
WOMAN #1: ( sarcastic ) Gee, he's really something, your grandson is he good at math Peter starts to pick cans off the shelf.
PETER: Look, ladies, thanks for all the advice. But I think I'll just take one of each. To be on the safe side.
STOCK CLERK: ( to Peter ) Don't forget if the baby's less than three months old, you have to be sure to sterilize the
PETER: What bottles?
WOMAN #2: You know what? This must be a
MICHAEL: Mary had a little lamb, little lamb, little lamb, if that jerk isn't back in three seconds I swear I'll throw her down the garbage chute. Mary had a little lamb, little lamb.
MICHAEL: Well, it's about goddamn time! Where the hell have you been?
MICHAEL: Where the hell have you been?
MICHAEL: Oh Hi, Mrs. Razzolini!
MANAGER: This package came for you. Oh! What a cute little baby! Is it yours?
MICHAEL: No, it's not me, I mean she's not mine.
MANAGER: Oh, so it's Peter's?
MICHAEL: No, no, it's Jack's, I mean it's not Jack's, it's. someone loaned it to us, I mean someone.
MANAGER: And what's the little girl's name?
MICHAEL: Ooh, what a pwetty wittle name, Mary! I didn't know you had a Yeah, well, I have to put her to bed now.
MANAGER: Ooh, what a pwetty wittle name, Mary! I didn't know you had a Yeah, well, I have to put her to bed now.
MICHAEL: Yeah, well, I have to put her to bed now.
MANAGER: You have to put her to bed? Where's Mary's mommy?
MICHAEL: She's. she's not here. She'll be back soon.
MANAGER: Oh here, this just came for you. They just dropped it off. Can I hold her for a second?
MICHAEL: Well, like, y'see. she doesn't like to be held by strangers.
MANAGER: She loves to be held by strangers! Hey, she's soaking wet hmm, no I think it's number 2. Want me to give you a hand changing her?
MICHAEL: Oh no, don't worry, I'm used to it. Well, so long, Mrs. Razzolini.
MANAGER: 'Bye, Mary, I'll come back to
MICHAEL: What a leech! And that other idiot isn't back yet!
MICHAEL: So you love to be held by strangers, do you?
WOMAN #2: This guy doesn't even know how old his baby is and you don't find that strange?
WOMAN #1: This guy asked for advice, I'm giving him advice, Okay? If you're so paranoid, why don't you run home and chain your kid to his Anyway, I think someone should call the cops.
WOMAN #2: Anyway, I think someone should call the cops.
WOMAN #1: The cops, the cops I bet you call the cops every time your cat pisses on the carpet.
MICHAEL: What the hell were you doing? You've been gone for hours! This damn kid's been crying the whole time. I've got a lot better things to do with my time! You're a real pain in the ass!
PETER: ( flabbergasted ) Hey, how dare you speak to me like that! You've never spoken to me like that before.
MICHAEL: Well, what the hell took you so long? What'd you do, go out for breakfast or something? I didn't even have time for a cup of coffee, for chrissakes.
PETER: Will you please cut it out for a second, huh? I didn't have any coffee either, it took me forever at the goddamn Safeway.
MICHAEL: Okay, well, here take the kid, I've got work to do.
PETER: Whaddaya mean, take the kid? I can't hold her and make her bottle at the same time. And why should I be the one to hold her?
MICHAEL: 'Cause, it's your problem. You found this kid.
PETER: Hey, asshole, I'm the one who found
MICHAEL: Jesus, there she goes again! We gotta feed her something.
PETER: Yeah, well you just don't feed a baby. First you gotta look and see if she has any teeth or not.
MICHAEL: To figure out how old she is so we know what to feed her, that's
PETER: To figure out how old she is so we know what to feed her, that's
MICHAEL: Do you look on top or bottom?
PETER: How do I know?
MICHAEL: Try feeling with your finger.
PETER: I can't feel anything I'll give her the stuff for newborns and hope she's not allergic to
PETER: And then we'll have to see if she's allergic to iron, to soy or to milk you can't imagine how much stuff they can be allergic to!
MICHAEL: She's soaking wet did you buy any diapers?
PETER: ( furious ) Figures. I'll take care of this, it'll save time.
MICHAEL: ( furious ) Figures. I'll take care of this, it'll save time.
MICHAEL: Excuse me, miss, could you tell me which diapers are the most I would suggest the ones that say Yeah, but which are better: 20-35 pounds or 12-24 pounds?
STORE CLERK: I would suggest the ones that say Yeah, but which are better: 20-35 pounds or 12-24 pounds?
MICHAEL: Yeah, but which are better: 20-35 pounds or 12-24 pounds?
STORE CLERK: ( suspiciously ) Depends how much your baby weighs.
MICHAEL: Oh right, how much she weighs.
STORE CLERK: ( threateningly ) You wouldn't happen to have a friend who came in here a little while ago, would you?
MICHAEL: I have no idea what you're talking about! He's no friend of mine.
PETER: Oh shit, my slacks! Goddamn her, she took a crap!
PETER: Hold her. Hold her, goddamn it!
MICHAEL: I can't hold her. This kid's out of control here!
PETER: Just gimme the cotton.
PETER: Oh for chrissake, don't just let go of her!
MICHAEL: Then get the cotton yourself if you don't want me to let go of her!
PETER: Take the towels off They're full of shit.
MICHAEL: But the couch'll get dirty!
PETER: Yeah, but she keeps getting it all over herself. Man, this shit is sticky!. We need cleaning fluid or something to get it off.
MICHAEL: How 'bout after-shave?
PETER: Are you kidding?! Waste our Saint Laurent on babyshit?
MICHAEL: Okay, let's just put the diaper
PETER: Michael hands him a diaper. Peter tries to figure out how it goes on.
PETER: These tape things do they go on the front or the back?
MICHAEL: How am I supposed to know.?
PETER: Hold her under her arms I'm gonna try it this way.
PETER: What the hell kind of lousy stinking diapers did you get? They're way too big!
MICHAEL: I don't think they're too big They're ultra-absorbent. That's all. The more absorbent the
PETER: How the hell do these tape things work? Hold her for My arms are getting tired.
MICHAEL: My arms are getting tired.
PETER: There. I got it.
PETER: Damn it. I didn't make it tight He tapes the other side: the diaper gapes and sags.
MICHAEL: It's not working. What about laying her down?
PETER: Go ahead. No, not on the towels, they're all covered with crap. . What the hell is this friggin' mess? Oh, man, this is unbelievable! To think, they bombard us day and night with their goddamn TV commercials! And will you look at this junk? This stuff is pure shit You tape it closed, it sags, you undo the tape: bingo the whole goddamn thing falls apart!
PETER: . What the hell is this friggin' mess? Oh, man, this is unbelievable! To think, they bombard us day and night with their goddamn TV commercials! And will you look at this junk? This stuff is pure shit You tape it closed, it sags, you undo the tape: bingo the whole goddamn thing falls apart!
MICHAEL: ( taking another diaper ) Well, whaddya expect, if you pull on it like an ape, it's gonna rip!
PETER: Michael, will you give me a break, will you please?
PETER: ( exploding ) Oh shit! Now she's pissing. Look at the couch. The sneaky little bitch was just waiting for me to get the diaper off, then whammo.
PETER: I happen to like my furniture. I'm going out to get some real diapers. You can clean the couch up in the meantime.
PETER: ( on the phone ) I need to reach Jack Collins, he's one of your pilots. No, I don't know exactly where he is, but he was supposed to be flying the Miami-Caracas-Rio route. The guy who proposed to you?. Oh, did he?. Well, congratulations. Please. listen to me. you must contact him and tell him he's got to call home immediately. Okay? It's an emergency, a family problem. No, don't worry, he's not married to someone else. It's another kind of family
PETER: Maybe she's allergic to something?
MICHAEL: Or maybe she's hungry again.
PETER: 32 INT. KITCHEN - DAY 32
MICHAEL: Make it snappy, will ya, she's
PETER: Oh shit, she's soaking wet again.
MICHAEL: Oh no you're not, you're not gonna leave me alone with her.
PETER: I told you I have a date.
MICHAEL: You rotten bastard do you see me going out on any dates?
PETER: Look, it's with Natalie I've been after her for months already.
MICHAEL: So what! If you leave me alone with this kid, I swear I'll pack up and be outta here by morning.
PETER: You're a real drag, y'know? Tonight was gonna be my big night! Now I bet it's gonna be Carl's big
PETER: Hello, Natalie? It's Peter. Listen, I'm really screwed. Jerry just called and we've run into a snag with the blueprints for the competition, it's an emergency. I've gotta go over to the office right away, I think it's gonna be an all-nighter. Of course I didn't know about this yesterday he just called me.
PETER: Hello? Hello?. No, I'm not trying to hang up on you. We're having some problems with the phone, that's all. No, Natalie, there's no one else here! You're the only woman I. I swear I'm not lying to you. What? You're going to call Carl? Okay, go ahead, call him if you want. I don't give a shit. Of course I'm not jealous. What makes you think I'm jealous?
PETER: ( on the phone ) Jerry, hi, it's Peter. Listen, I've run into some problems, I can't make it today. ( holding the receiver . Hey, take it easy, will you. I'm sick. Seriously ill. I'm burning up. The doctor had to come, I've gotta stay in bed till ( shouting to drown Hey, hey, hey, I'll work round the clock all weekend long. I swear, Jerry, I am not lying to you.
MICHAEL: ( on the phone ) I'm terribly sorry, Mr. Oxman, but I've run into a few problems, I won't be able to bring you the drawings tomorrow morning as I
MICHAEL: ( into phone ) On second thought, Mr. Oxman. uh, better make that the end of next week. ( shouting on the Please don't get upset, Mr. Oxman. I'll do everything possible to get them to you sooner. You have my word. I apologize again, Mr. Oxman. Thank you again, Mr. Oxman. Goodb. ( an audible . Mr. Oxman? Hello, Mr. Oxman?
MICHAEL: He didn't say what time?
PETER: All he said was Thursday.
MICHAEL: Terrific! We could rot here till eight o'clock tonight.
PETER: Well, I'm prepared to rot here till midnight if I have to, as long as we get rid of her.
MICHAEL: Jack really could have called. He has to have gotten our message by Well, when he does call, I'm gonna let him have it! That sonofabitch is on the beaches of Brazil proposing to the whole goddamn world. And we're here living in hell! He's gonna get his ass on the next plane back here. Vacation's over, Jack-baby, you better believe it.
PETER: Well, when he does call, I'm gonna let him have it! That sonofabitch is on the beaches of Brazil proposing to the whole goddamn world. And we're here living in hell! He's gonna get his ass on the next plane back here. Vacation's over, Jack-baby, you better believe it.
MICHAEL: ( angrily ) Damn right! ( beat softer ) It's almost time for her bottle, you know.
PETER: Oh hell!
PUNK #1: Jack Collins live here?
MICHAEL: Yes, he does.
PUNK #1: We came for the package.
PETER: Package? Oh that's cute, referring to her as a package! Anyway, you can tell Sylvia she's a lousy stinking bitch.
PUNK #1: Yeah, Sylvia! You can tell her she's got a hell of a nerve dumping her problems into our Problems? Did you guys have
PETER: Yeah, Sylvia! You can tell her she's got a hell of a nerve dumping her problems into our Problems? Did you guys have
PUNK #1: ( nervously ) Problems? Did you guys have ( sarcastically )
MICHAEL: ( sarcastically )
PETER: Do you have any idea what it's been like around here for the past four days?
MICHAEL: She could have at least given us a phone number or the name of someone to contact.
PUNK #1: ( surprised ) I don't get it. Didn't they tell you we were gonna be here today?
MICHAEL: Sure they told us! So what? That doesn't make the last four days any less hellish than they Well, anyway, they're here now, that's all that matters!
PETER: Well, anyway, they're here now, that's all that matters!
PETER: The next bottle's in 45 minutes. I made it already. It's in the Bottle? Whadda ya mean, bottle?
PUNK #1: Bottle? Whadda ya mean, bottle?
MICHAEL: About an hour after her bottle, she starts yawning. Put her to bed right away or it's pure hell for the next three hours, at least that's what we've noticed.
PUNK #1: What the hell is that? A baby?
PETER: ( sarcastic ) No, it's a very short teenager. Of course it's a baby! Now listen carefully: I'm giving you a can of the milk she's been getting. She loves it, and more importantly,
PUNK #1: Oh! I get it! Powdered milk! Very clever!
PETER: Yeah, right. real clever. Okay, here. She's all yours. Good luck.
PUNK #1: Okay, I got it. You can take her out now.
PETER: Take what out? I'm not taking anything out.
PUNK #1: Wait a minute, I don't get it! We take the basket and the milk, that's all. We ain't gonna take the. what's inside.
PETER: Whadda ya mean, what's inside?
MICHAEL: You take it all, man! It's a package deal!
PUNK #1: But what are we s'posed to do with it?
MICHAEL: How do I know? You take it where they told you to take it.
PUNK #1: Y'mean, I take it to the Yeah, whatever you want to call Are you sure that's the plan?
MICHAEL: Yeah, whatever you want to call Are you sure that's the plan?
PUNK #1: Are you sure that's the plan?
MICHAEL: You bet that's the plan! We're not keeping her one more second.
PUNK #1: Okay, if that's the plan.
PUNK #1: . Here, hold this. Okay, so
PETER: ( suddenly a little Uh. listen. maybe you could leave us the address or the phone number just in case. So we can find out how she's doing?
PUNK #1: Oh, yeah, sure, the address. Oh shit, I don't have it on me. But I'll call you. Okay, so long!
PETER: Aah, relief at last! Good riddance!
MICHAEL: You said it! Now maybe I can get some work done.
PETER: ( holding the package ) What the hell is this?
MICHAEL: Well, a package, I guess.
PETER: Was this package delivered to Yeah, why? When the hell did this package Will you quit shouting!
MICHAEL: Yeah, why? When the hell did this package Will you quit shouting!
PETER: When the hell did this package Will you quit shouting!
MICHAEL: Will you quit shouting!
PETER: ( screaming even When did this fucking package fucking arrive, Michael?
MICHAEL: I don't know. Oh yeah, Sunday Mrs. Razzolini brought it up.
PETER: Holy shit!
MICHAEL: What's the matter?
PETER: This is the package those guys came for, not the baby, you Hey, asshole yourself!. Oh shit!
MICHAEL: Hey, asshole yourself!. Oh shit!
PETER: Look out the window and see if you see them, I'm gonna try to
PETER: He opens the door leading to the stairs and races down them, holding on to the bannister. He flies, overwhelmed by anxiety. Suddenly he trips, loses his balance and makes a spectacular crash landing. The package gets a bit crushed, and little individual packets of white powder spill out of it. Peter stares at them in horror.
PETER: What the hell is this?
PETER: Oh, God, no. dope! That's all we need!
PUNK #2: We'd be better off taking the You want to ride the subway with a hundred grand in uncut dope, go ahead.
PUNK #1: You want to ride the subway with a hundred grand in uncut dope, go ahead.
PUNK #2: Well we can't ride around carrying this baby basket. We'll get stopped by the cops.
PUNK #1: So go ahead, take the subway and stop bothering me. I'm going to hook this onto the back seat.
PUNK #2: It'll never hold, man.
PUNK #1: ( desperately going Goddamn hook! Christ, what a stupid idea hiding the shit with this kid. It's ridiculous!
PETER: ( huffing and puffing ) Oh, thank God, you're still here! There's been a terrible mistake. That wasn't the package you were s'posed to take. It was another one. I have it right What do you mean? What other I'll take the basket back and give you the other package, here. No mistake.
PUNK #1: What do you mean? What other I'll take the basket back and give you the other package, here. No mistake.
PETER: I'll take the basket back and give you the other package, here. No mistake.
PUNK #1: You ain't takin' nothin' back, But I'm tellin you it was a You tryin' to double-cross us or something? Beat it before I get pissed, man.
PETER: But I'm tellin you it was a You tryin' to double-cross us or something? Beat it before I get pissed, man.
PUNK #1: ( in a low but very You tryin' to double-cross us or something? Beat it before I get pissed, man.
PETER: ( panic-stricken, But I'm telling you, I've got your package right here. There's been a mistake.
PUNK #1: A mistake my ass! Now get outa here, man, or I'm gonna stick this right in your gut.
PUNK #1: ( to Punk #2 ) Start the bike. But I'm telling you, I've got the real package in my pocket.
PETER: But I'm telling you, I've got the real package in my pocket.
PUNK #2: ( to Punk #1 ) Watch it, the cops! ( to his partner ) Terrific! I bet these morons screw up everything.
GRATON: ( to his partner ) Terrific! I bet these morons screw up everything.
PUNK #1: ( whispering ) If you called the cops on us, pal, you're a dead man.
COP #1: All right, what's that doing on the back of the bike?
COP #1: You wouldn't by any chance be intending to drive with a baby basket on your motorcycle, would Of course not, Officer. We'd never do something like that.
PUNK #1: Of course not, Officer. We'd never do something like that.
COP #1: So why did you strap it on in the first place if you had no intention of driving with it?
PUNK #2: So it wouldn't fall off.
COP #1: Very funny.
PETER: No, really, Officer, they weren't gonna drive off with it They were just watching it for me while I was doing a quick errand. Thanks, guys.
COP #1: All right, let's see some identification, everybody.
PUNK #1: They take off running in different directions. Cop #1 charges after Punk #1 and yells to his partner who's still in the car:
COP #1: Watch the guy with the basket!
COP #2: Freeze! All right, asshole, let's see some I.D.
PETER: ( urbanely ) Listen, Officer, let's stay calm now. I haven't the slightest intention of running. I am not a criminal. I'm an architect.
COP #2: ( calming down
PETER: I'm terribly sorry, Officer, but I don't have any identification on me. I just came down with my baby to run a quick errand. I haven't committed any crime.
COP #2: All right, let's go, in the car. I'm taking you down to the Oh, c'mon, that's impossible you see I have a baby. I have to give her a bottle in fifteen minutes, I can't go anywhere. I live right in this building let me go up to my apartment and I'll get you my license immediately. You can even come with me if you like.
PETER: Oh, c'mon, that's impossible you see I have a baby. I have to give her a bottle in fifteen minutes, I can't go anywhere. I live right in this building let me go up to my apartment and I'll get you my license immediately. You can even come with me if you like.
COP #2: All right, lead the way.
GRATON: ( angry ) Inspector Graton, Narcotics. It just so happens I was tailing those two guys and now because of you clowns I lost them, probably forever. Thanks a lot!
COP #1: How could we know?
GRATON: Forget it. Listen, your partner went in here with the guy and the baby. He lives up on the tenth floor. I can't go in because if he sees me, my cover is blown. So could you please try not to lose this one, okay? He's someone who's
PETER: ( key in hand ) This is it. Please come in. can I get you a cup of coffee or No thanks. I'll just wait out
COP #2: No thanks. I'll just wait out
MICHAEL: Hey, what's happening? What were those cops doing.
PETER: Michael. Michael. we're in deep trouble. The package. The package.
MICHAEL: Yeah? What?
PETER: There's a cop on the doorstep. He didn't see you. He mustn't see you. We're in deep trouble, Michael.
MICHAEL: Tell me what.
PETER: The package they came for wasn't the baby, it was dope, drugs, a shitload of dope! We were stopped by some cops down on the street.
MICHAEL: But did the cops see the dope?
PETER: No, it's right here. He takes out the package.
MICHAEL: We'll get twenty years if the cops find this on us! Climb down the fire escape and hide it. Michael takes the package, opens the window and starts to climb out it when Peter stops him.
PETER: We'll get twenty years if the cops find this on us! Climb down the fire escape and hide it. Michael takes the package, opens the window and starts to climb out it when Peter stops him.
PETER: Hey, whatever you do, don't lose the goddamn dope, we gotta be able to return it to those dealers or we're dead. Those guys are Don't worry. He starts down the fire escape, then stops and turns back.
MICHAEL: Don't worry. He starts down the fire escape, then stops and turns back.
MICHAEL: Oh, by the way, I put some water up to boil for her bottle. Michael disappears. Peter picks up Mary, grabs his wal- let and leaves the room. When he gets to the hall, he discovers that Cop #1 has joined Cop #2, to whom he is whispering something. Peter holds his license out for them to see.
PETER: Here's my license.
COP #1: I'm afraid I'm going to have to ask you to remain in the apartment. The narcotics squad will be arriving any moment now. They want to ask you a few questions.
PETER: Narcotics squad? What do they want with me? I don't even use 61 INT. SUPERMARKET - DAY 61 Michael is buying a pair of scissors, glue and a roll of Scotch tape. Then he buys a box of large diapers he chooses the ones that come in a box. Michael leaves the supermarket, whistling.
MICHAEL: Hello, Officers. What's going Don't worry, Michael, it's nothing serious, just a little Did you give her the 5:30 bottle?
PETER: Don't worry, Michael, it's nothing serious, just a little Did you give her the 5:30 bottle?
MICHAEL: Did you give her the 5:30 bottle?
PETER: Yeah, I just gave it to her.
MICHAEL: Did you change her?
PETER: No, she's soaking wet.
MICHAEL: Okay, I'll do it.
AGENT #1: And who's he?
PETER: He's my roommate.
AGENT #1: ( raising an eyebrow ) Oh, I see, I see.
PETER: No, you don't see. There are three of us sharing this place.
AGENT #1: Oh, three, huh? A regular 'mirage a trois'!
PETER: It's 'menage'. and it's not. We all have lots of girlfriends, thank you.
AGENT #1: Uh-huh, so what's your friend do?
PETER: He's a cartoonist.
AGENT #1: What about the other guy?
PETER: He's a pilot.
AGENT #1: Ah-hah. Now that's interesting.
AGENT #1: So does this friend of yours ever fly to South America?
PETER: No. Never. Only North America.
AGENT #1: Would you object if I answered it for you?
PETER: Not at all, go right ahead. I've got nothing to hide.
PETER: Yes, it is him.
PETER: Hello, yes, operator, I accept the
AGENT #1: Would you mind very much if I Please, go right ahead.
PETER: Please, go right ahead.
PETER: Hello, Jack? Fine, yeah. How're you? Yeah, he's fine, too. Yeah, we left a message for you, right. No, it was nothing
AGENT #1: Now that's interesting. So you wanna tell me about this package and the hot something-or-other your friend lucked onto. in La Paz. Bolivia. South America?
MICHAEL: Okey-dokey, honeybunch, it's time to go beddy-bye now. We're gonna take a nice long nappy-wappy.
AGENT #1: Do you recognize anyone in this
PETER: ( pointing ) Sure. This is Jack Collins.
AGENT #1: Oh yeah? Now that's interesting.
MICHAEL: So! Can I get you something to
AGENT #1: So, who's the baby belong to?
PETER: It's Jack's daughter.
AGENT #1: And why are you two taking care of Because her mother's in Europe for six months, and since Jack had to be away for two weeks, I took my vacation to take care of her, I love kids.
PETER: Because her mother's in Europe for six months, and since Jack had to be away for two weeks, I took my vacation to take care of her, I love kids.
MICHAEL: Yeah, Peter and I just love kids!
AGENT #1: Now that's interesting. Well, we'll be seeing each other again soon, in fact very soon. In the
MICHAEL: Come back anytime, gentlemen. You're always welcome here. We have no particular plans to leave New York in the near future, so don't worry about us now. 'Bye now.
PETER: ( in a low tone ) Christ, what a mess! They'll be on our tails around the clock! How the hell are we gonna get rid of the goddamn dope?! By the way, where is it?
MICHAEL: ( also speaking in It's cool, don't worry, I got it
PETER: Michael points to Mary's bottom.
PETER: This way it's close at hand!
MICHAEL: This way it's close at hand!
PETER: Are you out of your mind??
MICHAEL: Relax, will you.
PETER: I told the cops we were taking care of her. You realize we're now stuck with the kid till Jack
MICHAEL: Wait a minute. You're not gonna stick me with this kid! Tell them you need a maternity leave, tell them anything, but we've got to go 50-50 on this!
PETER: And that's not all we haven't heard from the punks yet either!
PETER: ( on the phone; things That's right, you heard right: I'm not coming in to work for two weeks. No, I can't explain why. ( in a louder tone ) . Because I can't, that's all!. NO, this has nothing to do with chasing ass! Jerry. Jerry! Will you stop screaming for a minute and listen? I'm in trouble, you understand? Deep trouble. I know. I know.
MICHAEL: I gotta go over to Mr. Oxman's he just called and he's freaking out. He says if I don't bring some cartoons over now, the deal's You're going now?
PETER: You're going now?
MICHAEL: Yeah, but don't worry about it, I'll be back before it's time for her next bottle. She's asleep Terrific, just terrific! Jerry just called: I have to go to the office right now.
PETER: Terrific, just terrific! Jerry just called: I have to go to the office right now.
MICHAEL: Well, call him back. Tell him you'll come later.
PETER: There's no way. I can't, he's suicidal. Why don't you call Oxman and tell him you'll be there in a few hours.
MICHAEL: You're crazy. Oxman is leaving in an hour. If I don't meet him before then, I blow my 15,000 dollar contract.
PETER: Oh shit, I can't take this Look, maybe we could pawn her off on Mrs. Razzolini, just for a couple of hours she's crazy about her!
MICHAEL: Look, maybe we could pawn her off on Mrs. Razzolini, just for a couple of hours she's crazy about her!
PETER: Good idea! Let's go.
MICHAEL: Wait I hear someone. I'll go Yes, I brought a package up to them. I think it was last What are these people like? What kind of lifestyle do they have? Just as I thought the goddamn cops are grilling Mrs. Razzolini.
RAZZOLINI: Yes, I brought a package up to them. I think it was last What are these people like? What kind of lifestyle do they have? Just as I thought the goddamn cops are grilling Mrs. Razzolini.
AGENT #1: What are these people like? What kind of lifestyle do they have? Just as I thought the goddamn cops are grilling Mrs. Razzolini.
MICHAEL: ( whispering ) Just as I thought the goddamn cops are grilling Mrs. Razzolini.
PETER: Oh shit! We sure as hell can't hand her the baby with an ass full of dope. right in front of the
PETER: ( breaking down ) What should we do? I really gotta Listen, she's just had her bottle. She's sleeping like a log. Let's just leave her in the apartment. What can possibly happen to her? She's as regular as clockwork. She won't wake up till 8:30 and we'll easily be back by then.
MICHAEL: Listen, she's just had her bottle. She's sleeping like a log. Let's just leave her in the apartment. What can possibly happen to her? She's as regular as clockwork. She won't wake up till 8:30 and we'll easily be back by then.
PETER: Yeah, you're right, we won't be
PETER: Michael? Michael, are you here?
MICHAEL: Morning, officers. Can I help Search warrant.
AGENT #1: ( holding out a piece Search warrant.
MICHAEL: ( playing the gentleman, I believe you, officer. Go ahead, we have nothing to hide. Hello, Mrs. Razzolini!
MICHAEL: You'll have to excuse the mess. We had a few friends over last night.
AGENT #1: ( looking at the Oh, really? Well, if I were you I'd get myself some new friends!
PETER: What the hell are you guys looking for, anyway?
AGENT #1: Probably the same things your friends were looking for last night! Didn't Mrs. Razzolini bring you a package last Sunday?
PETER: You mean the chocolate Easter bunnies? We ate them already.
PETER: Anyway, you have no idea how many packages we've been getting lately. It's hard to keep track of them.
AGENT #1: Maybe we can help. Let's get to work!
AGENT: Would you mind if I look in your
PETER: ( big smile ) My pleasure. Try not to make a
AGENT: I'll look in the basket, if you don't mind.
PETER: Be my guest.
AGENT: Thank you very much, sorry about
AGENT #1: Well, there's obviously been a mistake. As far as you're concerned this investigation is closed. We apologize again.
MICHAEL: ( big smile ) Oh, don't mention it! It was a pleasure having you here! I hope you'll find what you're looking for very soon!
AGENT #1: ( looking straight So do we.
MICHAEL: ( softly ) Did you hear that? He said there'd been a mistake and they weren't going to bother us anymore.
PETER: Bullshit, it's a trick.
MICHAEL: You think so? Really?
PETER: They just said that to put us off guard. They saw the condition this apartment's in.
MICHAEL: But he said the investigation was Okay, let's just see how closed it is. I'll go downstairs. You watch out the window and see if I'm being tailed.
PETER: Okay, let's just see how closed it is. I'll go downstairs. You watch out the window and see if I'm being tailed.
PETER: ( entering ) So? Was I right?
MICHAEL: There's one guy for sure! A redhead, kind of young, disguised sort of like a college student.
PETER: I knew it. They're going to be watching us around the clock.
MICHAEL: I have the feeling they'll come to us.
PETER: We'll have to be very careful.
PUNK: Hi! Doin' a little shopping, huh? How's your place not too much damage, I hope.
MICHAEL: What do you guys want?
PUNK: We want the dope. Tomorrow.
MICHAEL: And we want to give it to you. But the cops are tailing us nonstop. Matter of fact, there's one right behind us now.
PUNK: That's your problem, man. Figure out a way to shake 'em. Either we safely get the dope tomorrow, or you, your friend and the kid'll get this. We'll call you tonight.
GRATON: . My snitch told me the gang hasn't gotten the dope back yet, but they will soon. They made contact with the two guys tonight . No, no, they don't know I'm tailing them. These jerks are going to fall right into my
MICHAEL: Hello? Who? Goddamn it, where are you?. . It's Jack. He just landed in Newark. He came back early.
PETER: Gimme that. Jack? What the hell are you Yeah. yeah. oh yeah? Well, listen very carefully, Jack. That wonderful, fantastic babe you brought back from Bolivia? The one you're gonna marry tomorrow? Well, you're not going to bring her here!. You are going to say 'goodbye' to her very nicely and put her in a cab back to Bolivia. Why? Because there's another wonderful, fantastic babe waiting for you right here at home . Who is she? Oh, that's a surprise! You'll see when you get here. But believe me, she's
MICHAEL: ( in a low tone ) Make it quick, the punks may be trying to call.
PETER: So hurry home, Jack, this little doll can't wait to see you. 'Bye.
PETER: ( in a furious temper ) That goddamn mother fuckin' jerk of an asshole! I swear when he comes through the door I'll kill him! I'll.
MICHAEL: Hello? Listen, tomorrow, Central Park at the fountain near the merry-go-round, five o'clock. Be there, but.
MICHAEL: . That was it.
PETER: ( equally drained ) All we can do now is hope our plan works.
MICHAEL: You think the cops have our phone I don't think that's legal, is it?
PETER: I don't think that's legal, is it?
GRATON: ( very excited ) We got 'em, Chief. Five o'clock
JACK: ( opening the door ) Yoo-hoo, guys! I'm home! I've got presents for you. so where's that wonderful fantastic babe.
JACK: . What the hell happened here?
JACK: Peter! Michael! Are you here?
JACK: Oh, my God! My beautiful room! My beautiful, beautiful room! Michael!. Peter where the hell are you, for Chrissakes?
JACK: ( furious ) What the hell is going on around here? What happened to this place? What happened to my room?
JACK: And anyway, what the hell are you
JACK: Oh, I get it. The 'silent' treatment! Okay, if you won't talk to me, you can talk to my lawyer! This is grounds for divorce! You're in big trouble, the both of you.
JACK: I paid to have this place decorated, too, you know. I'm not going to let you get away with this.
JACK: It's too late to try and talk me out of it. I'm history. I'm gone. I'm outa here.
JACK: I'm giving you one more chance to.
PETER: ( very calmly ) Would it be asking too much of you to shut your big mouth for a few seconds? There is a child here who's trying to sleep.
JACK: And that's another thing! I will not have a baby in this house! Babies are not part of our agreement!
PETER: ( softly ) Michael, please hold me back. or I'll kill him.
MICHAEL: All right, Jack. Why don't we start at the very beginning. The very day you left for your Hey, will you please stop talking like Mr. Rogers? It's getting on my nerves.
JACK: Hey, will you please stop talking like Mr. Rogers? It's getting on my nerves.
PETER: ( his fuse has blown, His nerves! Ha. Ha. Ha. His nerves! Michael, his nerves! You wanna talk about nerves! Then just shut up and listen. It so happens we don't want a kid here either, but when someone dumps one on us, we take goddamn care of it.
MICHAEL: Yeah, we take goddam care of it.
PETER: We haven't had a decent night's sleep in two weeks. Michael's probably going to lose a $15,000 Peter couldn't leave. Jerry almost jumped out the window. It's lucky they even made it to the finals!
MICHAEL: Peter couldn't leave. Jerry almost jumped out the window. It's lucky they even made it to the finals!
JACK: First, we've got the narcs on our ass, then there's the drug gang threatening to carve us up. Then bottles. bottles. every three hours, bottles.
PETER: First, we've got the narcs on our ass, then there's the drug gang threatening to carve us up. Then bottles. bottles. every three hours, bottles.
MICHAEL: And diapers. Have you ever tried to do diapers?
PETER: 'La Paz, Bolivia.' He calls from . 'I'm onto something hot.' He says. 'Did the package get there?' He says. You asshole!
MICHAEL: And the day they wrecked the apartment, Peter came home and couldn't find Mary. I've never seen him in tears like that bef.
PETER: ( cutting him off; Never mind about that. Look, Jack, you got us into this mess, and you're going to help us get out of What are you guys talking about? What narcs? What gang? And who's that fucking baby?
JACK: What are you guys talking about? What narcs? What gang? And who's that fucking baby?
PETER: For your information, the 'fucking' baby's name is Mary. And if I were you, I'd watch what I said about her. because she just so happens to be your daughter!
JACK: And it just so happens, we've got a lot better things to do with our lives than wipe a baby's ass, even if she's yours!
MICHAEL: And it just so happens, we've got a lot better things to do with our lives than wipe a baby's ass, even if she's yours!
JACK: It's ridiculous. I look You look completely ridiculous so what?
PETER: You look completely ridiculous so what?
GRATON: Okay, he's coming out alone. I'll follow him. Someone else stay here to keep an eye on the other guys.
MICHAEL: What's going on?
GRATON: Inspector Graton, Narcotics. Do you admit you gave these men this Sure. I gave it to them, just a moment ago.
MICHAEL: Sure. I gave it to them, just a moment ago.
GRATON: ( to one of the cops ) Officer, will you please open this package in front of these witnesses?
MICHAEL: Is it against the law to give a box of candy to my friends?
GRATON: Oh, it's you guys!
PETER: What's the problem?
GRATON: You guys must think you're pretty smart, don't ya? Holy shit! The diaper!
GRATON: The goddam diaper! What a jerk, what a goddam schmuck I am!
MICHAEL: ( to the cops ) I think that guy needs a vacation.
JACK: He should try South America.
PETER: Yeah, I hear it's nice there this time of year.
CHIEF: Let's face it. Graton. You've got shit for brains.
GRATON: I'm sure the dope was in the diaper. Can I go on tailing them?
CHIEF: Forget it. I have solid information your three suspects never had anything to do with the dealers or the dope.
GRATON: I'm sure the dope was in the diaper.
CHIEF: Case closed.
GRATON: I'm sure the dope was in the diaper.
CHIEF: ( screaming ) Did you hear me, Graton? Case closed.
GRATON: I'm sure the d.
JACK: Paul, hi, it's Jack! Hey, listen, I brought you back a little present from South America. Can I see you right away so I can give it to you? . Yeah, the sooner the better! I can't wait to let you have it. How about 67th and East River?
JACK: That was for your 'little' package, and consider yourself lucky I didn't turn you in to the cops! And get one thing into your thick skull: I have never touched dope,
PAUL: Hey, come back! how'm I gonna get out of here?
JACK: 92 INT. APARTMENT - DAY 92
JACK: ( very aggravated ) Listen, Sylvia, you've got to come back. I travel, I can't take care of her. Yeah, but you're her mother. I'm her father what makes you so sure I'm the father!? The dates coincide! Big deal! That doesn't prove a thing. But she's still your kid, so do me a favor, get your ass back here immediately and take her off our hands. 'Cause we've got a lot better things to do with our lives than wipe a baby's ass, okay? Sylvia?. Hello! Hello! Sylvia, goddam it!
MICHAEL: Why don't you call her back?
JACK: I don't have the number. I got a message to her through her agency, they won't tell me where she is. I don't even know where she was calling from. And you better believe she's not going
MICHAEL: Hello?. No, it's Michael. How are you?. Oh, she's doing just fine, she's in great shape. We're taking very good care of her, you have nothing to worry about.
JACK: Who was that?
MICHAEL: Sylvia She wanted to know how Mary was doing.
JACK: What? Jesus Christ, Michael, why didn't you let me talk to her!?
MICHAEL: She would have just hung up on you again. The important thing is she knows Mary's fine.
JACK: You jerk! You should've said she was terrible, sick as hell! Practically on death's door! What a jerk, what a pain in the ass you can be sometimes.
MICHAEL: ( to himself ) What's with him? The kid's doing really great!
JACK: Mom? Hi, how are you?. Yes, I'm fine. Yes, I'm eating well. Mom, how would you feel if I told you you were a grandma?.
JACK: . Yeah. A little girl, Mary.
JACK: . I'd love you to see her. In fact, I was gonna bring her down tomorrow. today?. Great, I think there's a flight in three hours. I'll be at your place by two. See you real soon!
MICHAEL: You'll have four already made, this'll hold till Miami.
JACK: Tell her to make sure Mary gets plenty of sleep.
MICHAEL: Tell her to make sure Mary gets plenty of sleep.
JACK: I'll tell her.
MICHAEL: If her ass gets red, tell her not to listen to any pediatricians they're full of shit.
JACK: Right. Full of shit.
MICHAEL: Then she should give her a bottle of water instead of the regular bottle. Works like a charm: Her ass will be white as snow in three hours.
JACK: ( nodding ) Bottle of water, white as snow.
MICHAEL: Peter says her clothes should be washed by hand.
JACK: Really, by hand?
MICHAEL: ( nodding ) And only in soap flakes without any artificial color or scent. And then rinsed three times in very hot water.
JACK: ( docile ) Rinse three times.
MICHAEL: To put her to sleep we sing in harmony it always works.
JACK: My mother lives alone.
MICHAEL: Solo works just as well.
JACK: Now, as for the nipples, you've got to be very, very, very careful.
MICHAEL: Now, as for the nipples, you've got to be very, very, very careful.
JACK: ( politely, but a I gotta get going, I'll miss my
PETER: Anyone home?
MICHAEL: nerve! Leaving us with the kid she couldn't wait to see her. He's gonna try to unload her on her till Sylvia gets back. I made her four bott.
PETER: nerve! Leaving us with the kid she couldn't wait to see her. He's gonna try to unload her on her till Sylvia gets back. I made her four bott.
MICHAEL: nerve! Leaving us with the kid she couldn't wait to see her. He's gonna try to unload her on her till Sylvia gets back. I made her four bott.
PETER: nerve! Leaving us with the kid she couldn't wait to see her. He's gonna try to unload her on her till Sylvia gets back. I made her four bott.
MICHAEL: she couldn't wait to see her. He's gonna try to unload her on her till Sylvia gets back. I made her four bott.
PETER: ( furious ) You're kidding! That son-of-a- he had to know, and I made her four bott.
MICHAEL: he had to know, and I made her four bott.
PETER: really starting to get on my have called me!
MICHAEL: have called me!
PETER: have called me!
MICHAEL: ( exasperated ) Of course not! What, are you crazy? I'm relieved! Thank God she's out of here!
PETER: ( exasperated ) Of course not! What, are you crazy? I'm relieved! Thank God she's out of here!
MICHAEL: That idiot! He could at least have told me. I can't believe this. That jackass. That jerk. There are such things as phones!
PETER: That idiot! He could at least have told me. I can't believe this. That jackass. That jerk. There are such things as phones!
MICHAEL: ( to himself ) Four bottles for the goddam trip. There, I finally got it out.
JACK: Hey, Mom!
MARGIE: ( hits Steve ) Hey, he finally made it!
JACK: But, Mom, I missed the plane.
MARGIE: Yeah, but now I have to go.
JACK: Where are you going?
MARGIE: On a cruise around the world.
JACK: But why didn't you say so on the phone?
MARGIE: Because you never would've come. Now let me see her. Oh, my little strudle!
STEVE: Hey, Margie. We're a little late.
MARGIE: Bye-bye, sweetie love. I'll bring you back presents from all over the world. Four o'clock.
JACK: ( holding Mary ) You're bringing her back?
PETER: You're bringing her back?
JACK: Yeah. she's starving. I gotta heat this bottle up right away.
PETER: So what happened? Did you two have a fight?
JACK: ( grim ) Goddamn cruises.
PETER: Didn't she want to take her?
JACK: Sure she did, but she was just leaving for some stupid cruise around the world. The entire fucking world! With some bimbo boyfriend of her's. and a bunch of retired bozos.
PETER: The apple doesn't fall far from the tree.
JACK: 98 INT. APARTMENT - LATE AFTERNOON 98
MRS. BRETSAWS: Good afternoon. I'm Mathilda Bretsaws, from The Second Mommy Oh, yes, I was expecting you. Won't you come in.
JACK: ( very eager, Oh, yes, I was expecting you. Won't you come in.
PETER: Who is it?
MICHAEL: Must be some nanny he found through an agency.
JACK: ( softly, to Michael ) She wants to see Mary.
MICHAEL: She's asleep.
JACK: Well, she wants to see her anyway!
PETER: ( returning from What do you want?
JACK: Nothing, nothing.
PETER: Don't go into my room, she's Yeah, but the nanny, Mrs. Bretsaws, she wants to see her.
JACK: Yeah, but the nanny, Mrs. Bretsaws, she wants to see her.
PETER: No, damn it, no! You're gonna wake her up! It already took me an hour to sing her to sleep.
JACK: Yeah, but she wants to see her.
PETER: All right, I'll go explain the No, no, Peter, please, really, don't go, don't bother, I'll go explain it to her myself.
JACK: ( holding him back No, no, Peter, please, really, don't go, don't bother, I'll go explain it to her myself.
PETER: It's no bother, Jack. I'll be glad to do it.
JACK: ( sighing, to Michael ) Wanna bet she's out of here in ten minutes slamming the door behind her?
PETER: . A sleeping child should not be awakened. If you don't know that, then you're not fit to be a nanny.
MRS. BRETSAWS: ( tense, but still I never said that I wanted the child to be awakened, sir. I only asked to see her. If I'm going to be taking care of the child on a round-the-clock basis, then.
PETER: 'Round-the-clock'? Whaddya mean 'round the clock'? Are you intending to sleep here?
MRS. BRETSAWS: Absolutely, sir. A second mommy is a second mommy.
PETER: And where are you going to sleep?
MRS. BRETSAWS: Well, I expect you to show me to my quarters.
PETER: Well, I don't know where Jack intends to stick you. That's his problem. Maybe in his room. But I'm warning you, Mrs. There are three of us sharing this place and we're all real
MRS. BRETSAWS: There are three of us sharing this place and we're all real
PETER: There are three of us sharing this place and we're all real
MRS. BRETSAWS: . And as for screwing, I have all I need at home, thank you very much. With a few days off every month, I'm sure I'll be fine. The only thing I'm interested in is the care of the child and I can tell she needs some.
PETER: MRS. BRETSAWS
MRS. BRETSAWS: with the father?
PETER: MRS. BRETSAWS
MRS. BRETSAWS: you something. With a child you always know who the mother is, but the father that's another kettle of fish. So don't give me that bullshit, okay?
PETER: you something. With a child you always know who the mother is, but the father that's another kettle of fish. So don't give me that bullshit, okay?
MRS. BRETSAWS: further with you. Will you please show me where the kitchen and the bathroom are?
PETER: MRS. BRETSAWS
MRS. BRETSAWS: things we need.
PETER: Don't you do the shopping housekeeping. I am a professional of fruit and vegetables for the the age of three months children should be started on a normal, varied diet.
MRS. BRETSAWS: housekeeping. I am a professional of fruit and vegetables for the the age of three months children should be started on a normal, varied diet.
PETER: MRS. BRETSAWS MRS. BRETSAWS
MRS. BRETSAWS: of fruit and vegetables for the the age of three months children should be started on a normal, varied diet.
PETER: MRS. BRETSAWS
MRS. BRETSAWS: the age of three months children should be started on a normal, varied diet.
PETER: feed a baby like an adult.
MRS. BRETSAWS: ( mockingly ) Oh, really? And how would you diet recommended by those quack pediatricians today is way too rich. I'm in favor of natural methods, Mrs. Breathmint.
PETER: diet recommended by those quack pediatricians today is way too rich. I'm in favor of natural methods, Mrs. Breathmint.
MRS. BRETSAWS: trouble getting to sleep, what would you do?
PETER: trouble getting to sleep, what would you do?
MRS. BRETSAWS: problem, I might recommend a mild sedative.
PETER: ( exploding, I knew you'd say something like that, you jerk!
PETER: 'Medicine's a whore and the pharmacist is her pimp'?
MRS. BRETSAWS: different music. Personally I'm very fond of opera.
PETER: Mrs. Breakballs, if you don't get out of here right this minute I'm gonna punch you in the nose! This is my home, now get out!
MRS. BRETSAWS: The name's Bretsaws. I am blessed with infinite patience when it comes to children, sir, but I'm not qualified to deal with lunatics. Goodbye and good luck!
JACK: ( looking at What did I tell you? Ten minutes to the second!
JACK: Okay, listen, you guys. I've tried everything and nothing's working: my mother's off on a cruise; Mrs. Razzolini won't speak to us ever since the whole business with the cops we don't want to involve any of our girlfriends; Sylvia's taking it easy in Europe and there's no way she's gonna come back now that Michael went and told her everything's just fine and dandy. Peter did a terrific job getting rid of Mrs. Bretsaws, and all that's left are the daycare centers, but Peter's positive they're a breeding pit for A.I.D.S. So you tell me: What are we suppose to do? You want me to split with the kid? Or dump her in an orphanage?
PETER: ( pretending to
MICHAEL: less than five months. Let's not waste a shitload of time looking for a solution for such a short time. Let's get organized.
JACK: the New York-Washington shuttle for five months, on account of serious personal problems.
PETER: the New York-Washington shuttle for five months, on account of serious personal problems.
JACK: subway conductor.
PETER: ( barking ) Then dump her in an orphanage, 'cause there's no way we're gonna take care of her all by ourselves Jack, you're going to have to ask to do the New York-Washington No! Never.
MICHAEL: Jack, you're going to have to ask to do the New York-Washington No! Never.
JACK: ( stubborn, yelling ) No! Never.
MICHAEL: ( unruffled ) That way, you can do the 6-10 A.M. shift. That amounts to two bottles and two diaper changes. You do the shopping when you get home in the evening and that's all. Peter, you'll take the 6-10 P.M. shift. That's two bottles and two diaper changes, her bath and her laundry. Since I work at home I'll take the longest shift from 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. I'll take her to the park for an hour, but that's it. No shopping, no cooking, no cleaning.
PETER: Whose shift is that?
MICHAEL: Well. I thought you might do Not a chance! I'm not doing the night shift. I absolutely refuse. I have too much work to catch up on for the competition.
PETER: Not a chance! I'm not doing the night shift. I absolutely refuse. I have too much work to catch up on for the competition.
JACK: Well, needless to say I refuse, Listen to me, you selfish bastards! My shift is eight hours in a row. No way I'm gonna do nights too. After 6 P.M. she can scream all she wants, I don't give a shit.
MICHAEL: Listen to me, you selfish bastards! My shift is eight hours in a row. No way I'm gonna do nights too. After 6 P.M. she can scream all she wants, I don't give a shit.
PETER: You know, Jack, you're a real slime ball! We give you the easiest shift: the morning. She's always in great shape in the morning, isn't she? We've got to work like crazy to save our jobs and you have the nerve to refuse nights. Goddamit, she's your daughter. Are you that horny?
JACK: ( extremely pissed Hey, horny yourself! I don't give a shit. I don't need you guys. I'll find some other way to do it. And I won't take the New York-Washington shuttle!
PAUL: ( shyly ) Hi, Jack, something wrong?
JACK: ( who hadn't Oh, hi. Nah, nothing's wrong.
PAUL: What were you doing in the boss's I was asking to do the New York- Washington shuttle for a few Oh, and he said 'no,' huh?
JACK: I was asking to do the New York- Washington shuttle for a few Oh, and he said 'no,' huh?
PAUL: Oh, and he said 'no,' huh?
JACK: ( barking ) As a matter of fact, he said
JACK: Okay, I'm off. She's well fed and she's sleeping now.
JACK: Shit, she's crying. I'll go pick her up.
PETER: Let her cry, she's just trying to get to sleep, she'll stop in a couple of minutes.
JACK: No, she needs to burp I've gotta rock her for a little.
PETER: I'm telling you, the more you pick her up, the longer it'll take her to get to sleep.
JACK: Thanks for the advice now why don't you just shove it? I know you let her scream for hours but I can't.
PETER: ( in a state of I never let her scream for hours!
JACK: You'd resort to any theory to not take care of her. Just because you've read some books.
PETER: Can you believe what he just said to me. I read those books It's not your shift, anyway. Piss off, will ya?
JACK: It's not your shift, anyway. Piss off, will ya?
MICHAEL: Come on, guys, cool it! It's my shift now. I'll rock her for a few minutes. . and then I'll put her right to bed. So off to work, both of you.
MICHAEL: Coochie, coochie, coo. woo, woo, woo. bippity, boppity
PETER: Hi, Michael, I just came back to get a file I forgot. Everything okay?
PETER: Everything okay?
MICHAEL: ( without looking Yeah, okay. ( not moving ) Well, I guess I'll be going now.
PETER: ( not moving ) Well, I guess I'll be going now.
MICHAEL: ( not moving either )
PETER: The baby okay?
MICHAEL: ( not budging Yeah, okay.
JACK: ( to himself ) Shit, she's crying.
BRUNETTE: Nothing, nothing. I'll be right
JACK: Nothing, nothing. I'll be right
JACK: It' beddy-bye time now, honey, beddy-bye, don't cry, sweetheart.
PETER: ( in a soft voice ) She's crying.
JACK: ( hushed voice ) Yeah, every time I try to put her back to bed.
MICHAEL: ( hushed voice ) Maybe she's thirsty?
PETER: No, her back teeth must be starting to bother her.
JACK: What should I do?
MICHAEL: I've bought some stuff for her
PETER: Try and put her back to bed; we'll sing. This guy's totally whacko.
BRUNETTE: This guy's totally whacko.
BRUNETTE: ( in a loud voice ) Hey, choir boys, you gonna keep it up all night?
BRUNETTE: Oh my God! There's a baby in there! I'm sorry.
PETER: ( hissing ) Who the hell's that broad?
JACK: Watch your mouth, will you? I'm in love with that young lady.
PETER: Can't she speak softly like everyone else?
JACK: ( getting angry ) Listen, at night I'm in charge. So get off my back, will you?
MICHAEL: ( exasperated ) Will you quit fighting all the time? She just fell asleep, for Oh, Michael, go to hell! I'm sick and tired of your little 'Father Knows Best' number!
JACK: Oh, Michael, go to hell! I'm sick and tired of your little 'Father Knows Best' number!
PETER: Yeah, you're right, I'm fed up with it, too!
MICHAEL: ( terribly upset ) Okay, that's it. Into the
MICHAEL: I've had it with you assholes! I won't be the buffer between you two anymore.
JACK: I didn't ask you to get up, I know what I have to do.
PETER: I don't mind getting up, that's not the point.
MICHAEL: I'm not a punching bag! You If I can't bring a girl back here anymore, just say so. And I'm gone. I'm outta here. With Mary.
JACK: If I can't bring a girl back here anymore, just say so. And I'm gone. I'm outta here. With Mary.
PETER: You can bring whoever you want as long as they speak softly like everyone else!
MICHAEL: One thing I know: I can't goddamn wait till Sylvia gets back!
PETER: Yeah, you can say that again!
JACK: And again, and again, and again. Meanwhile, the Brunette has put her clothes back on and gathered up her belongings. Now she enters the kitchen.
BRUNETTE: Sorry to disturb you guys, but I'm splitting. I didn't come here to be a bedwarmer. 'Bye.
JACK: ( running after her ) No! Wait, please don't go. it's all over now, I'm coming back to ( at the front door )
BRUNETTE: ( at the front door )
CARL: Have you seen the latest bi-annual at the Whitney? Incredible! Have you seen it, Peter?
PETER: No, I haven't had the time lately.
CARL: Ah. working hard on the competition, are you? You may as well throw in the T-square, old friend, you haven't got a I only wish he was working hard on the competition, but unfortunately, that's not the Really? What's he doing then? He's always so busy.
JERRY: ( somewhat harshly ) I only wish he was working hard on the competition, but unfortunately, that's not the Really? What's he doing then? He's always so busy.
NATALIE: Really? What's he doing then? He's always so busy.
CARL: Maybe he's working hard on women! Some people have to work really hard to get anything!
PETER: ( whispering to Why do you always have to bring Carl along with you?
NATALIE: Don't you like him?
PETER: Oh, c'mon I love him! Only, I'd like to see you alone for once, that's all.
NATALIE: He's extremely talented in fact, I hate to tell you this, but I think he and his group are gonna win the competition.
PETER: Well, we'll see about that. Did you give her something to Oh, cut it out! No more for me! I've had eight glasses!
MICHAEL: ( in a low tone, Did you give her something to ( drunkenly ) Oh, cut it out! No more for me! I've had eight glasses!
CHRISTIE: ( drunkenly ) Oh, cut it out! No more for me! I've had eight glasses!
JACK: ( in a low tone, to I tried, but she doesn't want I do so want some, but if I have anymore I'll pass out!
CHRISTIE: I do so want some, but if I have anymore I'll pass out!
PETER: Save room for dessert it's a three-tiered cake from Balducci's!
EVERYONE: Oh! Wow!
CHRISTIE: ( greedily ) I love three-tiered cakes!
JAY'S WIFE: So what's it made of?
PETER: Umm, it's made with whipped cream and loads of nipples on top I mean, loads of. raspberries . I'll be right back.
SOPHIA: Are you saying that's not art? Are you really saying that's not art? Well, then, you explain what it is.
MICHAEL: Well, it's. art. I'll be right
CAROLINE: Jack, tell me about those exotic places, what is Caracas like?
JACK: ( his mind elsewhere ) Well, actually. uh, lately I've been to Washington a lot. and uh. I'll be right back.
PETER: Try and put her back to bed.
JACK: I'm warning you, she'll scream.
PETER: I'm sure she's cutting a tooth.
MICHAEL: Oh shit the guests.
PETER: You two go. I'm staying with her. It can't be worse than listening to Carl.
JACK: That's not fair let's take Mary out there.
MICHAEL: And the hell with it.
GUESTS: Oh, it's a baby!
JACK: Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to meet my daughter, Mary.
PETER: ( muttering ) Your daughter. your daughter.
GUESTS: You're kidding! Congratulations! She's adorable! She looks just like you. Oh, what a cute little
JACK: ( walking her back Don't cry, Mary, don't cry.
PETER: There's too much noise.
PETER: ( to everyone ) She's teething, that's why she's ( to Jack ) Give her to me, I'll try and calm her down.
MICHAEL: ( very tense ) Don't sit down it'll get worse. You have to walk around. How long have you had this kid?
NATALIE: How long have you had this kid?
JACK: A few months.
NATALIE: ( somewhat sharply ) Who's her mother, anyway?
PETER: She's in Europe, she'll be back in a few days.
CARL: Does she always cry like that?
MICHAEL: No, it's only because she's teething, she's usually very
CAROLINE: ( to break the silence ) You'd never think something so small could make a noise so big.
JERRY: What if you just put her back to Right she's just throwing a temper tantrum, put her to bed.
NATALIE: Right she's just throwing a temper tantrum, put her to bed.
PETER: We already tried.
JACK: It's her teeth.
NATALIE: ( to Jerry ) Do you have any kids?
JERRY'S WIFE: Yeah, but they're grown up now, thank God!
CHRISTIE: ( to Jay ) And do you have kids, too?
JAY: I said. and do you have kids, No, we both have careers.
CHRISTIE: I said. and do you have kids, No, we both have careers.
JAY: No, we both have careers.
CARL: So, do you think we'll get to taste that three-tiered cake Oh, nothing, nothing I was just trying to liven up the
PETER: ( to Natalie, Oh, nothing, nothing I was just trying to liven up the
CARL: ( to Natalie, Oh, nothing, nothing I was just trying to liven up the
PETER: can't hear anybody.
CHRISTIE: can't hear anybody.
CAROLINE: of hard to take.
PETER: ( loudly ) We were just saying that this baby's conversation is actually rather limited. and a touch annoying. Don't you think?
CARL: ( loudly ) We were just saying that this baby's conversation is actually rather limited. and a touch annoying. Don't you think?
PETER: with a limited conversation. At least she has an excuse, she's a baby! What's yours?
CARL: your pompous drivel about the latest trends for the last two hours, and frankly, it's a crock of horseshit.
PETER: your pompous drivel about the latest trends for the last two hours, and frankly, it's a crock of horseshit.
JERRY: and you guys cool it, will you?
JAY: and you guys cool it, will you?
CARL: Peter's always been a sore loser.
PETER: ( totally out You motherfucker, get out of here! Get out of my house right now or I'll kick the shit out
JERRY: Peter, cut it out!
JACK: Stop it, Peter. Give her to me, I'll put her to bed.
PETER: ( beside himself ) No, I'll go. ( to all the And you can all go fuck yourselves! Go back to your asinine conversations!
MICHAEL: ( trying to recover ) Well. umm. How 'bout if I get the cake now, okay?
CARL: Well. It seems our beloved hosts are going to be busy playing mother for a while, so if you'll excuse me, I'll just slip away. . Natalie, may I invite you to spend the rest of the evening in a more hospitable place?
NATALIE: ( to the guests )
JAY: ( to Jerry and Is he out of his mind or what?
JERRY: He was absolutely obnoxious.
CHRISTIE: ( drunk, getting Hey, Caroline, I think we should
CAROLINE: ( running to Oh, God, no! Hold it back!
CHRISTIE: ( starting to cry ) I wanna go home.
CAROLINE: Okay, we're going. Sorry. say goodbye to Jack for us.
JAY: ( to Jerry ) Look, there's no point in our staying any longer. I think it's best we leave.
JAY'S WIFE: ( to Jerry ) Tell Peter if was a wonderful ( sad ) Okay. 'Bye.
JERRY: ( sad ) Okay. 'Bye.
SOPHIA: Can you drop me off near Soho by any chance?
JAY: ( to Jerry and 'Bye. Say goodbye to them for me.
SOPHIA: ( to Jerry and 'Bye. Say goodbye to them for me.
JERRY'S WIFE: Well, we might as well go, too. I think the evening's over.
MICHAEL: Ta-da! Will you look at this? Is this a cake or what? Can someone make a little room on the table so I can. Are you guys leaving?
JERRY: Yeah, we're beat.
MICHAEL: Hey, where is everybody?
JERRY'S WIFE: Well, the atmosphere wasn't exactly festive.
JERRY: Sorry about the cake, Mike. It looks great!
MICHAEL: Oh, never mind, don't worry. Good night.
JACK: Well, she's asleep at last! We sang in har. Hey, where is Gone. Can you make a little room for me on the table to put the.
MICHAEL: Gone. Can you make a little room for me on the table to put the.
JACK: You mean they're all gone?
MICHAEL: Yeah, all of 'em, hey, can you make a little room for me to.
JACK: ( going back out, Peter! Peter, goddamit, get out
JACK: They're all gone!
PETER: Who gives a shit, they're all jerks anyway.
MICHAEL: Hey, could you make a little room for me on the table so I can.
JACK: It's because of the kid. They can't stand kids.
PETER: I can't stand kids either but that's not a reason to leave! Dipshits, they're all a bunch of dipshits, every one of 'em.
MICHAEL: Oh, fuck it I'm sitting down. He sits down on a chair with the cake on his lap.
JACK: And did you hear Natalie: 'She's throwing a temper tantrum, just put her to bed.' What a pain-in- the-ass that broad is!
PETER: ( pissed off ) Hey, you're the pain-in-the-ass! First you dump a baby on us, then you scare everyone away from the party, then.
JACK: I scared everyone aw. Just cut the crap, will you? My whole life is diapers, shuttles and bottles. I do the graveyard shift, I'm the one who never gets any sleep. I.
PETER: Listen, we all have two full-time jobs! That's for sure!
MICHAEL: And what about me? I'm a prisoner in this house all day long, forget about chasing ass, I haven't gotten laid in six months. When the hell is your friggin' Sylvia gonna come back?
JACK: She's been gone for six months and four days.
PETER: If she's not back by the end of next week, I'm kicking her kid You better give your goddam Sylvia hell for this!
MICHAEL: You better give your goddam Sylvia hell for this!
JACK: Don't worry, she's gonna get it but good!
PETER: And you can tell her we have a lot better things to do with our lives than wipe a baby's ass, goddamn it!
MICHAEL: Do you guys want some cake?
SYLVIA: ( bursting with joy ) Hello. I'm Sylvia, Mary's mother. I've come to get her.
PETER: ( completely dazed ) Oh, it's you. Wait, I'll go
SYLVIA: How's Mary doing?
PETER: ( as if he were Fine, fine, she's doing great. She's getting her back teeth in lately, it's been a bit rough.
SYLVIA: Can I see her?
PETER: Oh, yeah, sure, she's in there.
SYLVIA: I don't believe how much she's Hello, Mary, hello my darling.
SYLVIA: Hello, Mary, hello my darling.
SYLVIA: How beautiful she is. Her hair has grown. Look how much she changed, I missed it all. I missed her so much! I wanted to make life difficult for Jack but I never thought I'd miss her so much.
SYLVIA: I wanted to make life difficult for Jack but I never thought I'd miss her so much.
PETER: ( still in a fog ) Oh, yeah. make life difficult for Jack.
SYLVIA: Is he here?
PETER: Is Jack here?
SYLVIA: Is Jack here?
PETER: ( snapping out of it ) Oh, yeah, yeah, I'll go get him.
PETER: Michael, Michael. Sylvia's here.
PETER: Mary's leaving.
JACK: ( to himself ) Let's see, the five bottles, the little bottles for water, the strainer for her cereal. ( to Sylvia ) . Do you have a blender?
SYLVIA: A blender?
JACK: For bananas and carrots and stuff. It's time for her to start eating No, I don't have a blender.
SYLVIA: No, I don't have a blender.
JACK: Okay, you can have ours.
SYLVIA: ( to Peter ) Do you want me to take her?
PETER: No, I have to burp her first.
JACK: ( to Sylvia ) Here, could you give these to Michael so he can pack them with the clothes? Here are the bibs. Jack told me to give them.
SYLVIA: Here are the bibs. Jack told me to give them.
MICHAEL: ( taking the bibs ) Thanks. I put the woolen things on the bottom and the diapers and lighter things on top, because you'll need those first.
SYLVIA: ( her mind is Yeah, sure.
MICHAEL: You'll have to come back and get the crib later.
SYLVIA: 118 EXT. STREET - DAY 118
PETER: ( tense ) Give me the playpen first.
MICHAEL: ( equally tense ) Then where are you gonna put the ( annoyed ) Just give me the playpen.
PETER: ( annoyed ) Just give me the playpen.
CAB DRIVER: Need some help?
PETER: No, no thanks. I'd rather do it
JACK: You really screwed us over but good you know that.
SYLVIA: I know, I'm sorry.
JACK: Really. Our lives have been out of control for the past six Yeah, I bet. Actually, that was kind of the point. But I'm the one who really got screwed.
SYLVIA: Yeah, I bet. Actually, that was kind of the point. But I'm the one who really got screwed.
JACK: Don't cry, c'mon. you're taking her back now, it's great.
SYLVIA: ( wiping her eyes ) Yeah, it's great.
JACK: D'you have enough money? Can you manage all right?
SYLVIA: Yeah, sure. I'm not loaded, but it's okay I'm working, I've got modeling jobs lined up.
JACK: Do you have a boyfriend?
SYLVIA: No. That's the last thing I need. I've got my work. And now I've got her.
PETER: That's it, we fit it all in.
JACK: Okay, then. well, 'bye. 'Bye, Mary!
SYLVIA: ( with a big, sad Okay, well, thanks again 'Bye!
JACK: ( playfully ) Well, that's that!
MICHAEL: Right. That's that.
PETER: Right. That's that.
PETER: Oh shit I forgot to explain about the cereal!
JACK: She'll figure it out by herself.
MICHAEL: Yeah, she'll manage.
JACK: Now it's back to the good life for us!
MICHAEL: Sleeping late! Different women every night! I can't wait!
JACK: Forget about the New York-Washington shuttle! I'm off to Caracas!
PETER: And I'm gonna be able to get back to work, so Carl better watch it I'm gonna slaughter that son-of-a-bitch! First with this goddam competition. and then with Natalie.
MICHAEL: And I've got six months' worth of sex to catch up on with Cathy, Nora, Frances, Susan, Barbra.
MICHAEL: .Christie, Paula, Sheila, Lisa, Kimberly, Rhonda, Rebecca, Louisa.
PETER: Oh, she forgot her squeaky
PETER: These are for you. I'm not supposed to leave the office.
MICHAEL: Peter? Yeah? What? Yow-ee! Hooray! Terrific! That's fantastic! I'll call Jack We're gonna celebrate tonight!
MICHAEL: They won! They won!
BLONDE: Who won?
MICHAEL: Peter. He won the competition!
BLONDE: Great! Who's Peter?
HURRAY!: Jack comes running in with a bottle of champagne, he POPS the CORK. Jack hugs Peter tightly as Michael comes in with glasses and tries to catch the champagne that's flowing all over. They all shout and go bananas celebrating.
SYLVIA: Here you are, my angel. Are you okay, honey? Mommy's finished now, you've been a very, very good girl. Thanks a lot for looking after Oh, she's been great!
GUARD: Oh, she's been great!
NATALIE: ( in a bad mood ) Oh, my feet are killing me! What the hell is this? Oh, it's a giraffe. ( tosses it away . Oh, by the way, have you
NATALIE: What the hell is this? Oh, it's a giraffe. . Oh, by the way, have you
JACK: Whadda you mean, what's the matter with me?
JACK: Me? No. I'm fine.
JACK: Sure I did, why?
JACK: ( turning around So it's the Rockettes, so what?
JACK: Whaddaya mean, sitting there? I happen to be getting ready to fly this airplane.
GRATON: ( out of it ) Don't you recognize me?
JACK: ( out of it ) Don't you recognize me?
GRATON: Don't you recognize me?
JACK: ( in a total fog ) Wait. uh, no.
GRATON: I'm the one who was tailing you. Remember, in the park.
JACK: Oh, yeah, the park. the diaper and all.
GRATON: That's it, the diaper. But don't worry. This isn't an investigation, I left the force four months ago, and anyway, they've arrested the whole gang since then. I just wanted to ask you something.
JACK: Have you noticed? I'm pregnant.
GRATON: ( neutrally ) Oh yeah, I see.
JACK: So, shall we go for a walk?
GRATON: There's something I have to know.
JACK: Wouldn't you like to be pregnant?
GRATON: What? Oh sure. maybe. no. I dunno. Look, there's been something bothering me for a long You see, if I was God, and I could create the world all over again, here's what I would do: I would create Adam from Eve's rib, not the other way around.
JACK: You see, if I was God, and I could create the world all over again, here's what I would do: I would create Adam from Eve's rib, not the other way around.
GRATON: ( having trouble That's an interesting idea. Actually, I just wanted to ask At least that way things would have been clearer to begin with, y'see. They wouldn't have made us believe that somebody could come out of our rib, y'know? 'Cause nothing ever comes out of our rib, y'know? Ever. Only out of our prick, and even then . Everything still has to be done after that.
JACK: At least that way things would have been clearer to begin with, y'see. They wouldn't have made us believe that somebody could come out of our rib, y'know? 'Cause nothing ever comes out of our rib, y'know? Ever. Only out of our prick, and even then . Everything still has to be done after that.
GRATON: ( very unsure ) That's for sure.
JACK: What we men know how to make is planes, buildings, cars, and all that stuff. It's useful, mind
GRATON: It's driving me crazy! This thing keeps going around and around in my head.
JACK: And you know what, it's not even like they wanted us to believe it it might have been us who wanted to believe it. But let's face it, nobody comes out of our Was the dope in the diaper, yes or no?
GRATON: ( dives right in ) Was the dope in the diaper, yes or no?
JACK: Still, that's hard to take, goddam Was it in the diaper, or not?
GRATON: Was it in the diaper, or not?
JACK: The dope? It was in the diaper, Oh, thanks a lot. I feel so much better now. Here, this is a rabbit for your baby. Thanks again, 'bye, I'm so happy.
GRATON: ( getting up ) Oh, thanks a lot. I feel so much better now. Here, this is a rabbit for your baby. ( shakes both Jack's Thanks again, 'bye, I'm so happy.
JACK: ( reaching out But wait the baby's gone.
JACK: ( extremely, in Tomorrow, San Francisco!
MICHAEL: ( grim ) Say hello to the Pacific for me.
JACK: ( even more playful ) I'll be back the day after tomorrow.
PETER: ( emerging from the You'll be id a foul bood jet lag really wipes out you dow.
JACK: ( annoyed ) Whaddya mean, now?
PETER: Yeah: you didd't used to give a shit before, but dow it docks you out.
JACK: ( very hostile ) Before what?
PETER: ( putting his head How would I dow? 'Before,' that's all.
JACK: ( on edge ) It doesn't knock me out at all.
MICHAEL: Is there any jam left?
PETER: You eatig here todight?
PETER: You eatig here todight?
JACK: ( playful again ) No, I'm going to the movies tonight with, uh. damn, I can't remember her name.
MICHAEL: Y'mean the Japanese one?
JACK: ( suddenly very No, she's from Finland. Oh damn it. What the hell's her name? They've got such weird names. Magdalena. no, Marianna. no . oh, I can't remember anyway it's Ma-something or other.
MICHAEL: A sudden, weighty silence ensues.
PETER: This fuckig cold! I look like I'b cryig all the tibe but I'b dot it's just this dab cold.
JACK: Hi. Is Sylvia in?
YOUNG MAN: No, she'll be back in a couple of hours around midnight, she Wanna come in and wait for her?
JACK: ( disappointed ) Wanna come in and wait for her?
YOUNG MAN: Wanna come in and wait for her?
JACK: Sure. Why not?
JACK: Sylvia doing okay?
YOUNG MAN: I don't know I'm a med student. I'm just babysitting. I only met her a couple hours ago.
JACK: Oh, I see. Silence. The Young Man sits down at the table and immerses himself in his books. Mary doesn't look up from her pack of cigarettes anymore.
JACK: Listen, on second thought, I don't think I'll wait for her. Just give her this when she gets back, okay? And this is for the Jack hands the bouquet and the rabbit to the Young Man, who plops them down on a chair.
YOUNG MAN: Sure, no problem. He immerses himself again in his books. Jack heads toward the door, then turns around.
JACK: Shouldn't the baby be in bed by Yeah. I don't know. When I put her to bed she cries so I just let her stay up.
YOUNG MAN: Yeah. I don't know. When I put her to bed she cries so I just let her stay up.
JACK: Don't you have any tights to put on her legs?
YOUNG MAN: Tights?. Well, it's pretty hot in here anyway.
MICHAEL: You want me to call them?
JACK: But you've got to let them know!
MICHAEL: But you've got to let them know!
JACK: No, I'm not going anywhere anymore, I've had it with traveling. I C'mon, I'll call you a cab, you've still got time.
MICHAEL: C'mon, I'll call you a cab, you've still got time.
JACK: Don't you call anybody.
MICHAEL: But the plane's s'posed to take off in half an hour They won't have time to replace you. This is serious you'll lose your job and you won't be able to pay your share of the apartment anymore. you.
JACK: I'll be a dishwasher, I'll live in a flophouse.
MICHAEL: What the hell happened?
JACK: I'm not going, I told you; I'm not going ever again. I'm sick and tired of traveling, sick and tired of broads. They all have the same asses and I can't seem to love them anyway. I can't take another hotel room, and swimming pools and trendy restaurants! I want to know
MICHAEL: Come on, I made us a good dinner. I bought some filet mignon and Haagen-Dazs butter pecan. When Peter comes back he'll cheer you He's been here all day.
JACK: He's been here all day.
MICHAEL: He has? I didn't hear him.
JACK: He's in his room.
MICHAEL: Michael heads towards Peter's room. Jack feebly gets up and follows him. Michael knocks on the door. No answer.
MICHAEL: Peter! Dinner's ready!
SYLVIA: Is Jack here? 'Cause I'm a mess. I can't handle it, I'm all alone.
MICHAEL: ( shouting towards Jack! Jack, c'mere for Chrissake!
SYLVIA: 'Cause my place is tiny, y'know, and my schedule's insane and I just finished four days of posing and we ended up every day at.
SYLVIA: ( to Jack ) Yeah, y'see, Jack, I just did four days of posing.
JACK: And every day we finished at three in the morning and since Mary always gets up around 5:30.
SYLVIA: And every day we finished at three in the morning and since Mary always gets up around 5:30.
JACK: Well, you can imagine how much sleep I've gotten.
SYLVIA: Well, you can imagine how much sleep I've gotten.
JACK: Yeah, of course, 'cause after the 5:30 bottle it starts all over again around nine.
SYLVIA: And by the time I change her and play with her a little, it's already eight o'clock.
JACK: And then that's it you get only an hour of sleep.
SYLVIA: And the babysitters till three A.M. all my money is sucked
JACK: Plus they don't put the kids to bed, they let them lie around Oh, so the flowers and the rabbit were from you.
SYLVIA: Oh, so the flowers and the rabbit were from you.
JACK: I could have strangled that guy.
SYLVIA: I mean it, I can't cope anymore. My parents and I don't talk to each other and anyway they live in Texas, and the baby needs to get out to the park.
MICHAEL: Yeah, tell me about it! Finding time to take her to the park every day is a real bitch!
SYLVIA: And I have to work, I need the money to survive and anyway I love my job.
SYLVIA: But to work I've gotta have a babysitter, and to have a babysitter I need to work, so I run around all day. . and I'm not sure I'm taking good care of her.
PETER: Of course you're taking good care of her we know what it's like, don't cry, she looks great.
SYLVIA: ( sobbing ) It's just 'cause I haven't slept in four nights she must be teething or something, I don't know but I can't manage.
PETER: Don't worry, it's nothing, she's
MICHAEL: She pulled the same thing on us. We lost all our friends in one night on account of one tooth!
SYLVIA: And just look at my face! Nobody's going to want me to model for them with the way my face looks. And what'll happen to me if they don't want me But you're beautiful At your age all you need is a good night's sleep and you'll look like new.
MICHAEL: But you're beautiful At your age all you need is a good night's sleep and you'll look like new.
SYLVIA: Right, a good night's sleep but when?
PETER: Well, why don't you leave the baby with us for a few days, till you recuperate. I mean, if you want.
MICHAEL: We're old pros it's not a big deal for us.
SYLVIA: ( blowing her nose, Really? I can leave her with you for a little while?
JACK: Of course. Leave her with us. Come back whenever you want. Get some rest. Sylvia, between two sobs, picks up a big bag beside her on the doorstep.
SYLVIA: I brought a couple of things for her, just for a few days. Michael eagerly takes the bag from her. It's followed by a second, and then a third.
PETER: ( taking Mary Is she hungry?
SYLVIA: Yeah, it's time for her bottle it's all ready in the bag.
JACK: I'll go heat up some water right away. Would you like a cup of Oh, okay, thanks. Peter, carrying Mary towards the kitchen, is followed by Jack and Michael with the bags. Sylvia blows her nose and walks around aimlessly in the In the kitchen the three men bustle about with the bags, the bottle, the saucepan. They've swallowed all their pride and are kissing Mary all over, on her neck, her hands, her tummy. They're deliriously happy. Michael takes some sheets out of the bag.
SYLVIA: Oh, okay, thanks. Peter, carrying Mary towards the kitchen, is followed by Jack and Michael with the bags. Sylvia blows her nose and walks around aimlessly in the In the kitchen the three men bustle about with the bags, the bottle, the saucepan. They've swallowed all their pride and are kissing Mary all over, on her neck, her hands, her tummy. They're deliriously happy. Michael takes some sheets out of the bag.
MICHAEL: I'll go make up her bed! He exits, and, once in the corridor, prances around, leaping and dancing. He gets to the living room and goes over to the crib: suddenly, he recoils and freezes, a fearful expression on his face. Then he turns and races back to the kitchen.
MICHAEL: ( floored ) Hey, you guys come and see, come and see!
PETER: Come see, I said. Jack and Peter nervously follow Michael into the living room. They stop short in front of the crib: There is Sylvia, curled up in a fetal position, sucking her thumb and sleeping like an angel.
MICHAEL: Come see, I said. Jack and Peter nervously follow Michael into the living room. They stop short in front of the crib: There is Sylvia, curled up in a fetal position, sucking her thumb and sleeping like an angel.
MICHAEL: The poor thing, she's really wiped out.
JACK: She'll need two or three months to recover, at least. Maybe We could set up a room for her A room for her and a room for Then we could have four shifts instead of three!
PETER: We could set up a room for her A room for her and a room for Then we could have four shifts instead of three!
MICHAEL: A room for her and a room for Then we could have four shifts instead of three!
JACK: Then we could have four shifts instead of three!
PETER: Yeah, but I don't think she'll agree. She's got her own life to live.
MICHAEL: Yeah, she probably wouldn't want to move here. She'd think we'd jump on her any chance we could.
JACK: But we'd make a rule, she'd just be 'one of the guys!'
MICHAEL: She'll never want to.
SYLVIA: ( very awake ) So, I'll take the ten A.M. to three P.M. shift. And I'll take every other night. plus the walk in the park in the afternoon before I go to work. and we split the rent equally. and I'll just be 'one of the guys'. deal?
END!: Writers : Jim Cruickshank James Orr Colline Serreau
