VIDEO IMAGE: President Bush in the Oval Office delivering an address to the American people.
PRESIDENT BUSH: .This act of naked aggression must be checked. The United States, along with coalition forces from the Middle East, have drawn a line in the sand. There is only one way for this situation to be satisfactorily resolved. The belligerent forces from the Republic of Iraq must be removed from Kuwait, be it by choice, or by force.
BLACK: FADE TO:
JAEGER: At-at-at-at-at. At-at-at-at-at.
EPPS: What are you doing?
JAEGER: What does it look like I'm doing? I'm killing Iraqis. At-at-at-at-at. At-at- Could you stop, please. You're giving me a headache.
WES: Could you stop, please. You're giving me a headache.
JAEGER: A headache?
WES: Yeah, a headache. My head hurts. You're making me uncomfortable.
JAEGER: I'm making you uncomfortable. Baking away in a desert in the middle of nowhere facing three-hundred-thousand screaming Iraqis with nerve gas scud missiles, that doesn't bother you. But me making a little noise is driving you out of your Yes. Yes. That's exactly it. Yes.
WES: Yes. Yes. That's exactly it. Yes.
JAEGER: Jaeger goes right back to playing soldier.
EPPS: Knock it off!
JAEGER: Don't get pissed at me, just 'cause I want to be ready when this war starts.
EPPS: Ready for what? What are you supposed to be doing?
JAEGER: I told you, I'm shooting Iraqis.
EPPS: No you're not. The Iraqis are that way. Those are our troops you're shooting at. You know what? I think you got Schwarzkopf. You did! You got the General right in the ass. Now that's good shooting.
JAEGER: Blow me.
EPPS: Another month in this desert and I might Think we're going to do it? Think we're going to war?
WES: Think we're going to do it? Think we're going to war?
EPPS: Not up to us. Up to the Iraqis. All they have to do is get out of Kuwait.
JAEGER: We ought to kick their asses anyway. Even if they do get out of Kuwait we ought to kick their asses.
WES: I don't think we'll go to war. We shouldn't even be here. This isn't our fight, it's a regional conflict. It should be decided regionally.
JAEGER: People are suffering.
WES: People were suffering in Afganistan, and we didn't do anything.
EPPS: That's 'cause the Afganis weren't smart enough to be sitting on top of oil. People suffering is one thing, but when the Yuppies aren't going to have enough gas for their BMWs it's time to break out the tanks. Come on. Pack up. We've got a whole lot of nothing to patrol.
JAEGER: We ought to kick their asses. Either way we ought to.
WES: .And it's very important when you sit down never to point the soles of your shoes at anyone. It's considered You know so much about the Middle East, you know where we can get something to When do you ever point the soles of your feet at people?
EPPS: You know so much about the Middle East, you know where we can get something to When do you ever point the soles of your feet at people?
JAEGER: When do you ever point the soles of your feet at people?
WES: I'm saying don't do it accidently.
JAEGER: Oh yeah. Accidently.
WES: Come on. You're going to get us in It was an accident. You saw it was an I'm just trying to help you guys out. It doesn't hurt to know something about Saudi Arabia.
JAEGER: It was an accident. You saw it was an I'm just trying to help you guys out. It doesn't hurt to know something about Saudi Arabia.
WES: I'm just trying to help you guys out. It doesn't hurt to know something about Saudi Arabia.
EPPS: Like learning Arabic? You're gonna learn Arabic you might as well learn were we can get something to eat around here.
WES: I didn't learn Arabic because we were getting shipped here. You don't learn it in a couple of weeks. I studied it in high school.
JAEGER: Spanish wasn't hard enough?
WES: I thought it would be good to know.
JAGER: Yeah, if you ever need to buy a rug.
WES: Hey, Jaeger. Why don't you try this: Ashra Ka mahari dahra sahib.
JAEGER: What does that mean?
WES: Don't shoot me, I'm friendly. You can use that when you surrender.
JAEGER: How do you say "Come here, baby. I'm horny." I can use that now.
WES: Don't even try it. You offend a woman out here you're in serious trouble.
EPPS: Don't worry about Jaeger. He uses his personality as a form of birth control.
JAEGER: Blow me. Have I said that to you guys recently? Blow me.
WES: Now you need me.
JAEGER: What is it? You know so much about Arabland tell me what it is.
WES: Well, based on my knowledge of the region, its culture and her people I would have to say it's a box.
EPPS: Can you eat it? If you can't eat it I really don't care what it is.
JAEGER: Ask him what it is.
WES: He says it's a box.
JAEGER: Yeah, you're funny.
WES: It's a puzzle box. If you can figure out how to open it there's supposed to be a treasure inside.
JAEGER: ( Excited ) For real? A treasure?
EPPS: Oh, man, you're not going to fall for There might be something in there.
JAEGER: There might be something in there.
EPPS: Yeah, the deed to the Brooklyn bridge.
JAEGER: There might be.
WES: And you're the guy who's going to open I could.
JAEGER: I could.
EPPS: You could turn on a light if someone put your hand on the switch.
WES: You get it yet?
JAEGER: Naw, nothing.
WES: You will. You'll get it.
JAEGER: I'll show Epps. He'll be sorry when I get this thing open.
WES: You really think there's a treasure I don't care if there's a lump of coal in here. I just want to be able to rub Epps' face in it when I crack this thing.
JAEGER: I don't care if there's a lump of coal in here. I just want to be able to rub Epps' face in it when I crack this thing.
WES: You know the fifteenth is the deadline for the Iraqis to get out of Kuwait.
JAEGER: You know the fifteenth is the deadline for the Iraqis to get out of Kuwait.
WES: You know the fifteenth is the deadline for the Iraqis to get out of Kuwait.
JAEGER: Yeah. So?
WES: That's in two days.
JAEGER: Like I said; so?
WES: They're cancelling all leaves, all passes. No more drills. We stand at full ready starting
JAEGER: What's your point, Wes? You have a We're going to war, aren't we. If they're doing all that it must mean we're going to war.
WES: We're going to war, aren't we. If they're doing all that it must mean we're going to war.
JAEGER: It doesn't mean anything.
WES: Why would they do all that if we weren't?
JAEGER: Okay, so we're going to war. We're supposed to go to war. We're soldiers, that's what we do. The guns, the tanks, the planes; you're just now getting the hint we're in the war business?
WES: ( For sure aggravated ) You ever think about dying?
JAEGER: ( For sure aggravated ) You ever think about dying?
WES: You ever think about dying?
JAEGER: Come on, man. I almost had this thing open.
WES: You ever think about it? You ever worry?
JAEGER: The only thing I worry about is how much Iraqi ass I'm going to be able to kick before this whole thing is over. The only people who I've got anything to worry about are the poor, dumb camel jockeys who don't know enough to get out of the way when I come rolling at them; an M-16 in each hand, and a grenade between my teeth. Now if you'll excuse me, soldier, I'd like to get back to my box. I've got a treasure to find.
BLACK: FADE TO:
VIDEO IMAGE: President Bush in the Oval office addressing the Nation.
BUSH: Just two hours ago, Allied air forces began an attack on military targets in Iraq and Kuwait. These attacks continue as I speak.Our objectives are clear. Saddam Hussein's forces will leave Kuwait. The legitimate government of Kuwait will be restored to its rightful place, and Kuwait will once again be At-at-at-at-at. At-at-at-at-at.
BLACK: FADE TO:
JAEGER: ( Re: His TV ) This is so weird. It's happening, but it's not. It's like a TV show, and we're part of it.
WES: ( Re: His TV ) This is so weird. It's happening, but it's not. It's like a TV show, and we're part of it.
JAEGER: Will you knock it off! Damn, man. You're going to annoy the Iraqis into
EPPS: Will you knock it off! Damn, man. You're going to annoy the Iraqis into
JAEGER: This is stupid. It's going on a month now. How long are they going to let the Air Force piss on those bastards? They can bomb them all they want, Saddam ain't going anywhere without a ground assault. What the hell is the army waiting for?
EPPS: Why you in such a hurry to get to I've got to have something to tell people when I get home besides I protected a stretch of dirt that nobody wanted for nothing in the first place.
JAEGER: I've got to have something to tell people when I get home besides I protected a stretch of dirt that nobody wanted for nothing in the first place.
WES: The longer the air force hits the Iraqis, the safer it'II be for us when we have to You know what, Wes? If you get a note from your mommy they might excuse you from the war.
JAEGER: You know what, Wes? If you get a note from your mommy they might excuse you from the war.
EPPS: You all want to lay off? God. I hope the Iraqis shoot me; put me out of my OH MY GOD!
JAEGER: OH MY GOD!
EPPS: What!? What!?
JAEGER: I did it! I got the box open.
EPPS: You almost got yourself shot, that's what you did.
WES: What's inside?
JAEGER: It's.it's.I don't know what it is.
WES: It's a container. Break the seal.
EPPS: Go on, man.
WES: It's a fortune box.
EPPS: It's a fortune box.
WES: What's it say?
EPPS: Help, I'm being held prisoner in a puzzle box factory.
JAEGER: It's a drawing, or something. Some kind of art.
EPPS: Looks like something a kid would do.
WES: It's a map, I think that's what it is.
EPPS: There you go, Jaeger. Just find the buried treasure, and you're a You think?
JAEGER: You think?
EPPS: Yeah, that's exactly what I think. You and the five thousand other suckers who bought those boxes. Let's get out of here. We got sand to protect.
JAEGER: Hey, Jaeger. What's up.
WOODS: Hey, Jaeger. What's up.
JAEGER: I'm looking for a favor. I need a map of A map? All I got is maps. I'm gonna have Delayed Map Syndrome when I finally get out of here. What kind of map you need? Topographical, geographical, I don't know. A map map.
WOODS: A map? All I got is maps. I'm gonna have Delayed Map Syndrome when I finally get out of here. What kind of map you need? Topographical, geographical, I don't know. A map map.
JAGER: I don't know. A map map.
WOODS: A map map.
JAEGER: I could use some recon photos too.
WOODS: Planning on going to war all by your lonesome?
JAEGER: Just.want to be ready when we do.
WOODS: Ready for what? Sight-seeing?
JAEGER: The photos.
WOODS: They're all good ones. Satellites we've got can snap a shot of the boil on Saddam's ass.
JAEGER: Saddam's got a boil on his ass? I don't know.
WOODS: Yeah. You figure out how to win the war be sure to let us know.
SOLDIER: Come on, Jaeger. We're playing ball.
JAEGER: No that's okay. I'm gonna.I'm doing some.
BLACK: FADE TO:
VIDEO IMAGE: Once again President Bush delivers an address.
BUSH: This evening, as I report to you, the military operation known as Desert Storm enters its final phase. The coalition forces that face the tyranny of Saddam Hussein have launched an all out ground offensive.as this last, and most critical part of the campaign begins I ask for your prayers that God may bless each and every one of the coalition forces at our side in the Gulf, and that He may continue to bless our nation, the United States of America.
BLACK: FADE TO:
JAEGER: They finally start the ground war, and where are we? Same place we've been since we got here. Securing freedom for the dirt.
EPPS: Everybody's got a job to do. Figure it this way: At least you get to go home I'd like to go home alive with a couple of Iraqi scalps hanging from my belt.
JAEGER: I'd like to go home alive with a couple of Iraqi scalps hanging from my belt.
WES: Hey, look at this!
WES{CONT ): They're surrendering to a news crew. You believe that?
JAEGER: That's it. It's over. Eighteen hours into the war and it's over.
WES: Those soldiers have got loafers on. What kind of army gives their soldiers loafers?
EPPS: A casual one.
WES: Damn, this is sweet. We are going to be home in no time.
EPPS: Better grab up some sand to take home to your family.
JAEGER: We.we could go home with something With.with millions. Millions of What are you talking about?
WES: With.with millions. Millions of What are you talking about?
JAEGER: With.with millions. Millions of What are you talking about?
EPPS: What are you talking about?
JAEGER: Wait. Wait.
EPPS: I think you've got some issues to deal with. Really, when we get out of here I'm pretty sure it's shrink time for you.
JAEGER: Just listen to me! I've been doing some reading. In the Sixteenth century this region was invaded by the Turks. It became part of the Ottoman empire. When the Turks rolled in they raped, they pillaged, the usual stuff. Anybody who had anything wanted to hide it from these bastards. They buried their treasures, drew maps, and hid the maps in puzzle boxes. I read about this, man. I read about it.
EPPS: ( Sarcastic ) Wellllll, if you read it it must be true. Was it in the Star, or the Enquirer?
JAEGER: Christ! Wes, tell him. You know this The Turks invaded, yeah. I guess people would have hidden what they had. But that doesn't mean what was in that box
WES: The Turks invaded, yeah. I guess people would have hidden what they had. But that doesn't mean what was in that box
JAEGER: Looks at this! Look at it! The drawing is a map of this area right here. You can see it. The geography, the landmarks. It's the same area.
EPPS: And you know what that area is? It's Iraq. IRAQ! We're doing a little thing with them right now; Desert Storm. Maybe you've read about it.
JAEGER: What we're doing is kicking ass. For God's sake they got Iraqis surrendering to news crews. The war is over. We've just got to keep shooting people 'cause the army spent all this money, and we've got to put on a show for the taxpayers.
WES: You're not saying what I think you're saying. I can't believe you're even thinking it.
JAEGER: It's right here. This region; an-Nagaf. I got recon photos. There're no troops there, no fighting
WES: You don't know where the Iraqis have moved to. And our forces haven't even engaged the Republican Guard yet, we don't know
JAEGER: It's about a hundred miles from where we are now. How long do you think it would take us to
WES: It's not a hundred miles. It's a hundred miles through three different kinds of terrain: Pure desert, mountains, a river. If the map is even real.
JAEGER: It's real. I'm telling you, it's real.
WES: So you just want to cross into hostile territory in the middle of a war on a wild goose chase? It's crazy. Tell him it's crazy, Epps.
WES: You're out of your minds, you know that? Both of you. You don't even know if there's anything out there. What the hell are you thinking?
EPPS: I'm thinking about when this war is over. Why you figure I'm here? 'Cause I got tired of being president of GM? If a brother doesn't play ball, or deal drugs there aren't too many big money prospects around, and I'm not particularly interested in spending the rest of my life fighting the oil companies' wars. So I say if maybe there's something out there, what the hell, that's what I say.
WES: It's desertion.
JAEGER: Deserting what? What the hell are we
EPPS: It's war. People get lost all the time in war, cut off
JAEGER: We disappear for awhile. We disappear, we came back; nobody knows nothing.
EPPS: But we all got to be in for this. We all go, or we do nothing.
WES: Epps, you're smarter than this. Jaeger I understand, but you're smarter.
JAEGER: You know it's real. You know it's real, and you know it's there. You know it.
WES: You're insane if you think you'll find anything, and sure insane if you think you can get us there and back alive.
EPPS: If you say that, then I say you don't know Second Lieutenant Epps very well, do
WES: God! I don't believe I'm doing this. I It's going to be cool, Wes. It's all all We go, we get rich, we go home. It's that easy.
JAEGER: It's going to be cool, Wes. It's all all We go, we get rich, we go home. It's that easy.
EPPS: It's going to be cool, Wes. It's all all We go, we get rich, we go home. It's that easy.
JAEGER: We go, we get rich, we go home. It's that easy.
WES: Yeah. That easy.
EPPS: Now this is war.
JAEGER: Roger that.
WES: We're going to get court martialed, you know that.
JAEGER: Hell, we'll just buy our way out.
EPPS: Hand me the navicom.
WES: Oh, God.
JAEGER: You're such a pussy, you know that? How'd you get in the army?
EPPS: Cool it, Jaeger. Hey, Wes? Wes?
WES: I know you think this is crazy, but a couple of hours from now you're going to be one rich dude trying to buy up every other puzzle box out there.
EPPS: I know you think this is crazy, but a couple of hours from now you're going to be one rich dude trying to buy up every other puzzle box out there.
WES: I'd settle for being alive. Really. Alive would be fine.
JAEGER: Epps, is that a sand dune.
WES: Oh, no.
EPPS: Why, yes, Jaeger. I believe it is.
WES: No, please, not again.
JAEGER: Hey, Wes, what kind of treasure you figure these people buried?
WES: If! If there's a treasure.
JAEGER: Yeah. If. Whatever. What kind you figure it is?
WES: I don't know. It would be small, easy to transport and hide. Gold or jewels. Probably gold.
JAEGER: Yeah! Gold! How much?
WES: How the hell should I know how much?
EPPS: But that's the great thing about Gold. A little goes a long way.
JAEGER: You know what I'm doing with my part of the gold?
WES: If there's gold. If!
JAEGER: You know what I'm doing with my half?
EPPS: Third. What you're going to do with your Yeah. I meant. You know what I'm going to do with it? I'm going to buy a Sixty- three 'Vette Stingray. All tricked out and cherry. I'm going to be so sweet.
JAEGER: Yeah. I meant. You know what I'm going to do with it? I'm going to buy a Sixty- three 'Vette Stingray. All tricked out and cherry. I'm going to be so sweet.
EPPS: A car? You're going to buy a car?
WES: This is too much. You don't even have the money and you're wasting it.
JAEGER: A car is not just a car where I come from. I had this friend, had this wicked candy apple red Sixty-four and a half You're getting gold, and you're going to blow it on wheels?
EPPS: You're getting gold, and you're going to blow it on wheels?
JAEGER: What are you going to do with your
EPPS: Invest it.
JAEGER: Oh, that's fun.
EPPS: It's not about being fun. It's about being smart. You take that money, you take care of it, let it grow, and you don't ever have to do anything again. Ever. That's freedom. That's what I'm talking about.
JAEGER: And I'm talking about enjoying myself.
EPPS: You know, you sound just like a boy who's What's that?
WES: What's that?
EPPS: Take the binoculars.
JAEGER: Wh-what do you think
EPPS: TAKE THE GODDAMN BINOCULARS!
JAEGER: Oh, God!
WES: Oh, God!
JAEGER: Two vehicles. They're not supposed to be Oh, Jesus!
WES: Oh, Jesus!
JAEGER: They're not.I had the pictures. They're not supposed to be here!
EPPS: Shut up! Both of you shut the hell up!
JAEGER: We've got to do something. We've got to turn around.
EPPS: We can see them, they can see us. We run, they chase.
WES: What are we going to do?
EPPS: We're going to keep driving.
JAEGER: They'll shoot us!
EPPS: We run they'll shoot us anyway. If we keep driving they might think we friendlies; Iraqis. Or even if they know we're Americans they might get scared, think we're part of a detachment and keep on going.
JAEGER: They're not going to
EPPS: It's the only way. We drive!
EPPS: Wave at them. Don't look, just wave.
JAEGER: Yeah! Yeah!
WES: I think I'm going to throw up. I am. I'm going to toss.
JAEGER: You see that? Right by us. They went right by. You had them Epps; you called Figure they don't want to mess with us anymore than we want to mess with them.
EPPS: Figure they don't want to mess with us anymore than we want to mess with them.
JAEGER: Look at you, not even breaking a sweat. You're cool, boy. You're cool.
WES: They stopped.
EPPS: Oh, Jesus, they've stopped.
WES: Oh, Jesus, they've stopped.
JAEGER: Go, go, go!
EPPS: Shoot them!
JAEGER: Steady it out!
EPPS: I steady it out, they blow us out of the
JAEGER: I got him! You see that, I nailed him!
EPPS: Damn it!
WES: EPPS FIRES! The grenade rips from the launcher, riding a trail of white smoke, and slams into the Iraqis. You know the story: Huge explosion, car parts flying a hundred feet into the air, bodies whipping through space, stuff Bob Dole would hate. But maybe he would like it. They were just Wes brings the Hummer to a halt. A spastic, scared, relieved laugh escapes him. Jaeger, checking himself for wounds, and Epps, M-16 still in hand, get out. Epps makes his way to the wreckage, sweeping it with his rifle ready to blast any survivors. Yeah, like somebody's walking away from that Wes finally makes his way over to the others who stand and stare at the burning hulk of whatever it was.
WES: EPPS FIRES! The grenade rips from the launcher, riding a trail of white smoke, and slams into the Iraqis. You know the story: Huge explosion, car parts flying a hundred feet into the air, bodies whipping through space, stuff Bob Dole would hate. But maybe he would like it. They were just Wes brings the Hummer to a halt. A spastic, scared, relieved laugh escapes him. Jaeger, checking himself for wounds, and Epps, M-16 still in hand, get out. Epps makes his way to the wreckage, sweeping it with his rifle ready to blast any survivors. Yeah, like somebody's walking away from that Wes finally makes his way over to the others who stand and stare at the burning hulk of whatever it was.
SHOOT!: EPPS FIRES! The grenade rips from the launcher, riding a trail of white smoke, and slams into the Iraqis. You know the story: Huge explosion, car parts flying a hundred feet into the air, bodies whipping through space, stuff Bob Dole would hate. But maybe he would like it. They were just Wes brings the Hummer to a halt. A spastic, scared, relieved laugh escapes him. Jaeger, checking himself for wounds, and Epps, M-16 still in hand, get out. Epps makes his way to the wreckage, sweeping it with his rifle ready to blast any survivors. Yeah, like somebody's walking away from that Wes finally makes his way over to the others who stand and stare at the burning hulk of whatever it was.
WES: I thought we were dead.
JAEGER: Yeah, well, we're not.
WES: We got to get out of here.
JAEGER: We're not going anywhere. Not 'til we get what we came for.
WES: ( Incredulous ) We just about got killed. You know what happened? We just about got killed, and you want to go on?
EPPS: Jaeger, go check out the Hummer for
WES: You're crazy, you know that? You're
EPPS: They shouldn't have been here.
WES: We shouldn't have been here, Epps. There is a war going on!
EPPS: This is miles from the battle lines. They were probably deserters.
WES: Deserters would have run, they wouldn't have engaged.
EPPS: They shouldn't have been out this way, that's all I'm saying.
WES: We're not going back, are we?
EPPS: I'm trying to get us paid. I'm trying to get us all paid! As long as there's a chance something is out there we go on. There's not going to be anymore trouble. If there is, we go back, but there won't
EPPS: She okay?
JAEGER: Yeah. Yeah, she's fine.
EPPS: Let's go.
BLACK: FADE TO:
EPPS: I'm just thinking, you know, if the rest of the boys knew what we're doing. I mean if they knew what we were coming back with.
JAEGER: I'm just thinking, you know, if the rest of the boys knew what we're doing. I mean if they knew what we were coming back with.
EPPS: You can't tell anybody about this.
JAEGER: I know. I know. But I'm saying, if they knew. We're going to be millionaires, man. Millionaires!
EPPS: It'd make their heads explode.
JAEGER: Millionaires, man.
JAEGER( CONT}: You know we're going to be rich. Admit it. You know. Come on, admit it.
EPPS: Money, money, money, money.MONEY.
WES: What are you doing.
EPPS: Low on gas. Got to refill.
EPPS: Look at it. LOOK AT IT! Shot to hell. It's been leaking gas since the fire fight. I told you to check for damage.
JAEGER: .I know.
EPPS: And you missed this? How are you going to miss something like this?
JAEGER: I didn't miss it. I figured if you knew one of the reserves got hit you'd want to turn back.
WES: So, you just let us drive on knowing we were losing fuel? Knowing we were going to run low in the middle of nowhere?
JAEGER: .I figured.I figured you'd turn back.
WES: .You stupid son of a bitch.
EPPS: Get off him. You two fighting's not going to get us Him getting us stranded out here doesn't do much good either.
WES: Him getting us stranded out here doesn't do much good either.
JAEGER: We're not stranded. We've got enough gas in the other reserve to get us back.
WES: Then lets go back while we still can.
JAEGER: As soon as we hit the mountain we would have had to go on foot anyway. We're not that far. We can make it.
EPPS: What do we do with the Humvee?
JAEGER: We leave it.
WES: What if someone takes it?
JAEGER: Who? Who's going to take it. We mark the location with the navicom, we can come right back to this spot.
WES: You two don't even know how crazy you are. You want to go on your sick, little treasure hunt then go ahead, but mark me You have to go with us, Wes.
JAEGER: You have to go with us, Wes.
WES: Really? What is that, an order,
JAEGER: You have to go with us. You can't walk
JAEGER{CONT ): And you sure as hell aren't going to
EPPS: Load what you can; water, tools, weapons. Anything you think we might need.
JAEGER: Who's he kidding? He wants it as bad as we do. We're going to be fat, Epps. As soon as we get back to Saudivillie you and me are going to
EPPS: We're going to keep going 'cause I want some of whatever's out there. But you ever pull something like trying to get my ass stranded out here again, and I'll kill you myself. You got that?
SAY IT!: I got that.sir.
JAEGER: I got that.sir.
JAEGER: Hey.hey! Slow up. You don't have to go so fast.
EPPS: Faster we get there, faster we get back.
JAEGER: Yeah. I know. I'm with you.
EPPS: Don't drink up all of yours, 'cause you aren't getting any of ours.
JAEGER: I'm just going to have a little sip, that's all. Just a sip.
JAGER{CONT ): Wait for me!
EPPS: You can catch up.
JAEGER: Yeah.I'm right behind you. Thanks for straightening out Jaeger.
WES: Thanks for straightening out Jaeger.
EPPS: Maybe we are crazy for doing this. But if we do it, we do it right. I just needed to explain that in a way I wouldn't have to do it again.
WES: Not much chance of that. Jaeger's an He's not so
EPPS: He's not so
WES: He's an idiot, and he's not nearly as hard as he thinks.
EPPS: How tough you have to be to make the army? All you've got to do is shoot a gun, and stop a bullet.
WES: Look at him. We ought to just leave him
EPPS: Okay, so he was riding you. Get over it.
WES: I'm just talking.
JAEGER: Can't even slow up for me. Wasn't for me they wouldn't even be here. I'm the one that found the map. Should have just come by myself. Should've. Shouldn't even cut them in. Shouldn't.
JAEGER: Again, louder:
EPPS: Epps isn't sure of what he's heard.
JAEGER: Epps isn't sure of what he's heard.
EPPS: Mine. Land mine!
JAEGER: Mine. Land mine!
EPPS: You didn't step on any mine.
JAEGER: I heard it click.
EPPS: If you stepped on a mine you'd be dead by now. Nobody uses delayed-fuse mines I heard it.
JAEGER: I heard it.
WES: Maybe it's just a can, or something.
JAEGER: JESUS CHRIST, I'M STANDING ON A MINE. SHUT UP, AND GET OVER HERE!
EPPS: Paranoid, that's your problem. You're just paranoid. Why'd the paranoid one have to find the map?
JAEGER: Oh, God! Oh God!
EPPS: Just be cool.
JAEGER: It's a mine, isn't it?
EPPS: Just relax.
JAEGER: How'm I gonna relax standing on a mine!?
EPPS: We're going to get off, all right. We'll get you off of there. Just.be cool.
JAEGER: Where you going?
EPPS: Me and Wes are just going to talk.
JAEGER: Why you got to move away to talk!?
EPPS: We're going to be right over here.
JAEGER: You're moving away because it's going to blow up, isn't it!? It's going to blow I said be cool, all right? Now be cool!
EPPS: I said be cool, all right? Now be cool!
WES: What kind of mine?
EPPS: I don't know, and I wasn't about to mess with it.
WES: Should have blown already. Delayed fuse, that's Vietnam stuff.
EPPS: Maybe that's all the Iraqis could afford, okay? Maybe they got it on discount. Maybe the fuse is messed up. Or maybe it's going to go off in two seconds, and we won't have to worry about getting Jaeger down off there, all we'll have to worry about is finding the pieces.
JAEGER: Doesn't matter. We're not going to be able to get him off it anyway.
WES: Doesn't matter. We're not going to be able to get him off it anyway.
EPPS: There's a way.
JAEGER: Can't do it. Can't do it, and keep him I said nobody dies. Nobody dies.
WES: Can't do it. Can't do it, and keep him I said nobody dies. Nobody dies.
EPPS: I said nobody dies. Nobody dies.
JAEGER: Epps, my leg is falling asleep.
EPPS: ( To Wes ) We've got rope?
WES: For climbing.
EPPS: Break it out.
JAEGER: My leg is falling asleep.
EPPS: It's not falling asleep. You've only been standing there for three minutes.
JAEGER: I'm the one who can feel my leg, and it's falling asleep.
EPPS: It falls asleep and you die, so wake it the hell up.
JAEGER: How's this going to work?
EPPS: Me and Wes each going take an end of the rope, run our asses of, and yank you off the mine.
JAEGER: That's going to do it, right? I'm going to be okay.
EPPS: You're going to be fine.
JAEGER: You're not going to let me die, are you!? Don't let me die!
EPPS: When we start running suck up your breath. You're going to get the wind knocked out of you.
JAEGER: Don't let me die, Epps. I don't want to
WES: What if it's a Valloro 69? Just going to bounce right up out of the ground, explode in the air, kill him and us.
EPPS: You just go when I say go.
WES: Should have at least gotten the map off of him. Blows up with him then we did all this for nothing.
EPPS: Epps takes a couple of deep breaths, holds one:
WES: Epps takes a couple of deep breaths, holds one:
EPPS: Wes and Epps are off the the races, churning up sand as they race away from Jaeger. They scream like banshees as if to draw strength. Jaeger does a little chant:
GO!: Wes and Epps are off the the races, churning up sand as they race away from Jaeger. They scream like banshees as if to draw strength. Jaeger does a little chant:
JAEGER: Oh, God. Oh, God!
JAEGER: His feet just clear the outer edge of the fireball, but still get licked and burned by flames before he slams to the ground several feet from the explosion. Epps runs to Jaeger. Wes takes a casual stroll back over.
JAEGER: I'm all right. Oh, Jesus, I'm all right.
WES: The map okay?
WES: How long we going to keep this up.
JAEGER: Until we're out of the mine field is how Haven't found a mine for half a mile, or more.
WES: Haven't found a mine for half a mile, or more.
JAEGER: That don't mean nothing. Iraqis could have just spread them out like that; make us think we're in the clear.
WES: You want to crawl, crawl.
JAEGER: You're going to blow yourselves up.
EPPS: Wes is right. If there were any more mines we would have found them. Hell, that one you stepped on was probably old anyway; left over from the war with Iran.
JAEGER: You don't know that. It could be a trick.
EPPS: If we step on a mine we'll know it was. Let me see the maps.
EPPS: This. Whatever it is.
JAEGER: It's the treasure, that's what it is.
WES: It better be.
JAEGER: The map.
EPPS: You're not losing trust, are you?
JAEGER: Just figure it's my map, I ought to hang on to it.
WES: If all we wanted was the map out of you we could have taken it while you were standing on that mine pissing on Probably would've too if Epps wasn't around to stop you.
JAEGER: Probably would've too if Epps wasn't around to stop you.
EPPS: I didn't have to stop anything, 'cause nobody was going to do nothing. We're in this together, understand?
JAEGER: Yeah, I understand. Wes doesn't want to come along in the first place, but he gets a third of the find. That's a sweet I'm getting tired of you riding me, Anytime you want to do something about it just let
WES: I'm getting tired of you riding me, Anytime you want to do something about it just let
JAEGER: Anytime you want to do something about it just let
EPPS: They all go quiet. Epps cocks an ear to the air and listens. They all listen. Wind, but that's about it.
JAEGER: I don't hear any
EPPS: Shut up and listen!
WES: Quick like that Jaeger grabs his M-16 down off his shoulder and is about to ready it when Epps slaps down the muzzle.
EPPS: It's a fire fight.
JAEGER: It's a fire fight.
EPPS: Single shots doesn't mean a fire fight. That's not a battle going on.
WES: What is it?
JAEGER: What is it?
EPPS: Iraqis. A bunch of them.
JAEGER: What are they doing here?
EPPS: Well, it's Iraq. I'm not sure, but I'm guessing that has something to do with them being here.
JAEGER: What are they doing in the middle of Maybe they're looking for gold.
WES: Maybe they're looking for gold.
JAEGER: Jesus! What the hell did he do that for? They're Iraqis. Why are Iraqis killing Those people down there are Shi'ites. You've got Shi'ites in the south of Iraq and Khurds in the North. Neither of them've got much love for Saddam. Probably figured once the war started there might be an uprising, so he sent his soldiers out to slap them around some.
WES: Those people down there are Shi'ites. You've got Shi'ites in the south of Iraq and Khurds in the North. Neither of them've got much love for Saddam. Probably figured once the war started there might be an uprising, so he sent his soldiers out to slap them around some.
EPPS: They're doing more than slapping.
JAEGER: The Shi'ites are on our side? I didn't know that.
WES: Is there anything you do know?
JAEGER: I know you're a pussy. I know that.
EPPS: All right. Let's get out of here.
WES: The soldiers are going to kill those We have to do something.
JAEGER: We have to do something.
WES: We have to do something.
EPPS: There's nothing we can do.
WES: We can fight. That's what we're here for: To fight the Iraqis. To help the Shi'ites, and the Khurds.
JAGER: I didn't sign up to help any Shi'ites. All we were supposed to do is get the Iraqis out of Kuwait, and if we aren't doing that then all bets are off.
EPPS: We carrying any ordinance?
WES: Some extra grenades. A Claymore.
EPPS: Not enough. We're out numbered and out gunned. They'd cut us to shreds.
JAEGER: So good bye, Shi'ites. Thanks for playing. We have some lovely parting gifts for you as you go.
WES: We're American soldiers. We don't abandon people.
JAEGER: Funny you should say that while we're out looking for gold.
WES: You're the one wanted to kill Iraqis so I've got a new agenda now, it's get rich. The only way the Iraqis figure into that is not at all.
JAEGER: I've got a new agenda now, it's get rich. The only way the Iraqis figure into that is not at all.
EPPS: ( To Wes ) I don't want to see people killed any more than you. But we try to help out we die, and all we do is die.
WES: We can't just go off and
EPPS: There's nothing we can do. We shouldn't even be here in the first place.
JAEGER: This is it. We're right on target.
EPPS: All we've got to do is make it to the And find the treasure, and get it, and get back to the Humvee, and get the hell out of Iraqi without getting our heads blown off, but that's about it.
WES: And find the treasure, and get it, and get back to the Humvee, and get the hell out of Iraqi without getting our heads blown off, but that's about it.
EPPS: We're not going to find anything standing here. Let's get to climbing.
EPPS: Not much of a pass.
WES: Probably was a couple of hundred years ago when whoever drew the map came through here. Worn down to nothing now.
EPPS: Picks up again just on the other side.
JAEGER: Think we can make it?
WES: We make it, or we go back empty handed.
EPPS: Looks like we make it.
WES: The US Army: Always an adventure.
EPPS: Let me see the map.
WES: What do you figure it to be?
EPPS: Got to be some kind of landmark; something distinctive.
JAEGER: X marks the spot.
EPPS: Something like that.
JAEGER: But the white dot in the middle; that's got to mean something.
EPPS: I hope it means something, otherwise.
WES: Otherwise whatever we're looking for could be anywhere.
EPPS: Basically. But the map has been pretty precise so far. I don't think it'll be too hard to
WES: Where'd they go?
EPPS: I don't know. There's a lot of space up here. They could be just about
WES: Weird they didn't chase us.
JAEGER: Maybe they're as scared of us as we are of them.
WES: Just seems weird they didn't chase us.
EPPS: What's weird is how they disappeared. Doesn't make sense. Doesn't.
JAEGER: Where is it? Where'd it go?
EPPS: Stay low.
JAEGER: Where the hell is it!?
EPPS: Just stay down.
JAEGER: What are we going to do? What the hell are we going to do?
EPPS: We're not going to do anything.
JAEGER: ( Panicked ) They're going to kill us!
EPPS: They can't shoot us in here.
WES: And they can't fly around out there So we wait.
EPPS: So we wait.
JAEGER: If they land
EPPS: If they land, we can take them. If they don't land, then we've got nothing to worry about.
WES: Epps, Wes and Jaeger sprint for the opening at the far end of the passage as a missile rockets from the gunship's pod. With a wild whine it rides the wind like a deadly arrow straight into the passage. Slamming into the ground it sprouts a terrific fireball that rides on a massive explosion. It races through the passage, lifts our boys from the ground and tosses them out into the open like they were nothing more than discarded ragdolls. Jaeger takes cover and cowers. He puts his panic into Wes pulls his rifle. Grunting like an animal he sprays bullets at the chopter, but it's like throwing snowballs at an elephant. The gunship turns on Wes and fires in his direction. It doesn't hit him, but it sends him running. Epps has had enough of this shit. He scrambles to load a grenade in his launcher as the gunship comes about. It races for him, cannons at the ready. This one is going to be close. Epps locks and loads just as the chopter swings down on him. Epps fires, but the gunship simply jukes up and away from the grenade the way someone might step over a bug. The grenade impacts the rock face behind the chopter exploding harmlessly. The chopter returns the favor by reining down a hail of shells that kicks Epps back FLIPPING HIM UP AND OVER the edge of the plateau. His M-16 goes flying, smashing into the ground far below. Epps manages to grab hold of the plateau lip with one hand. It swings him around, slamming him hard against the cliff face. He hangs there, suspended by his weakening grip, far above the ground.
EPPS: Epps, Wes and Jaeger sprint for the opening at the far end of the passage as a missile rockets from the gunship's pod. With a wild whine it rides the wind like a deadly arrow straight into the passage. Slamming into the ground it sprouts a terrific fireball that rides on a massive explosion. It races through the passage, lifts our boys from the ground and tosses them out into the open like they were nothing more than discarded ragdolls. Jaeger takes cover and cowers. He puts his panic into Wes pulls his rifle. Grunting like an animal he sprays bullets at the chopter, but it's like throwing snowballs at an elephant. The gunship turns on Wes and fires in his direction. It doesn't hit him, but it sends him running. Epps has had enough of this shit. He scrambles to load a grenade in his launcher as the gunship comes about. It races for him, cannons at the ready. This one is going to be close. Epps locks and loads just as the chopter swings down on him. Epps fires, but the gunship simply jukes up and away from the grenade the way someone might step over a bug. The grenade impacts the rock face behind the chopter exploding harmlessly. The chopter returns the favor by reining down a hail of shells that kicks Epps back FLIPPING HIM UP AND OVER the edge of the plateau. His M-16 goes flying, smashing into the ground far below. Epps manages to grab hold of the plateau lip with one hand. It swings him around, slamming him hard against the cliff face. He hangs there, suspended by his weakening grip, far above the ground.
JAEGER: Jaeger and Wes run to him, grabbing him by his arm. They pull and pull hard until Epps can get some kind of purchase, and crawl his way back up to the plateau. At the same time the gunship lowers itself so that it hovers above and beyond our three. It rotates so that the bay doors are facing Epps, Wes and Jaeger. Three Iraqis are inside, weapons trained on our targets. One of them yells something. Wes translates.
WES: They want us to surrender.
EPPS: Yeah, I'll surrender. Get down!
JAEGER: Oh, God.
WES: Yeah. Just keeps getting better and better, doesn't it?
BLACK: FADE TO:
WES: What do you think?
JAEGER: Lines up with the map and the photos.
EPPS: We're right where we should be.
WES: Can't see anything.
JAEGER: Guess we know what the next stop is.
EPPS: All right. Let's break out some utility shovels, lanterns, and a claymore in case we have to do any blasting. Me and Jaeger'll climb down, and see what we can What am I supposed to do?
WES: What am I supposed to do?
EPPS: Got to have someone here in case we need help making it back up. Doesn't hurt to have a look out either.
JAEGER: Think there might be more Iraqis?
EPPS: Right now I wouldn't be surprised if Eartha Kitt showed up singing Send In The
WES: You down?
JAEGER: Yeah, we're down.
WES: What do you see?
EPPS: More to himself:
JAEGER: So where do we start?
EPPS: Wherever you want.
WES: Hey.Hey! Sun's going down. Epps! Jaeger! It's getting dark up here.
EPPS: I heard!
WES: He rolls over and scoffs.
WES: There's nothing down there.
EPPS: What are you doing?
JAEGER: What does it look like I'm doing?
EPPS: It looks like you're not doing anything.
JAEGER: I'm not. And I'm not doing anything, because there's nothing down here.
EPPS: Get up and dig.
JAEGER: We've been digging. We've been digging for hours. If there was anything here to find we would have found it.
EPPS: Get up off your ass and dig!
JAEGER: What's the point? There's nothing here. The map's a fake. Christ, even I see that now. We're just wasting our time. We might as well give up and
EPPS: You listen to me. The whole reason we're here is because of you and that map of yours. I didn't do all this for nothing, and I'm not leaving with nothing. If you think for a second I'm giving up just 'cause you're too tired to turn over some dirt, then you don't know John Epps too well, do you? So you dig, and you keep on digging 'til I say you don't have to dig anymore.
WES: He can hear the sounds of the struggle and yells down.
WES: What are you doing.? What the hell are you doing down there?
JAEGER: Must be a compartment.
EPPS: I feel air. Probably opens up outside somewhere. That's where the light comes from. Couldn't see it with the lanternon.
JAEGER: The white dot; light in the dark.
EPPS: It's giving.
JAEGER: Jesus Christ!
EPPS: No, don't shoot!
EPPS: It's just a mongoose.
JAEGER: Is it dead?
EPPS: Yeah, Bwana, you got it.
WES: Yelling down
WES: What the hell are you doing!?
JAEGER: I think we found something.
WES: He leans over the crevice.
WES: What is it? What'd you find?
EPPS: Gold. It's gold.
JAEGER: IT'S GOLD!
IT'S GOLD!: CUT TO:
WES: His lips flutter a bit before they land on the word
WES: CUT TO:
JAEGER: It's not like I figured. It's cold. And it's heavier than I imagined.
EPPS: I wouldn't know. I never imagined this. Not in my whole life did I ever imagine You don't have to imagine it. Not anymore. Now all you've got to think up is what it's going to buy you.
JAEGER: You don't have to imagine it. Not anymore. Now all you've got to think up is what it's going to buy you.
EPPS: With all his strength Epps gives the coin an underhanded toss straight up.
WES: Wes catches the coin. He turns it over in his fingers. He smiles, and there's nothing pleasant about it.
EPPS: Wes, thrown down a pack.
JAEGER: Jaeger isn't sure how to say what he's thinking.
EPPS: Jaeger isn't sure how to say what he's thinking.
JAEGER: We send the gold up what's to stop him from taking off and leaving us down here?
EPPS: He's not going to leave us.
JAEGER: What's to stop him if he wanted to? All he has to do is cut the line.
WES: You ready?
EPPS: ( To Jaeger ) All right. I'll go up, then you send up the gold and
JAEGER: Why do I have to stay down here?
EPPS: Jesus, Jaeger.
JAEGER: I don't see how that plan's any better.
EPPS: Someone's got to send the gold up. It can't get on the line by itself.
JAGER: Why's it got to be me?
WES: What are you doing? You ready?
EPPS: All right. You go up, I'll send up the gold, then follow.
JAEGER: Yeah. Yeah, that'll work.
EPPS: If you're even thinking about leaving me down here, you better think again.
JAEGER: Wes, I'm coming up.
EPPS: The rope goes taught, slowly drawing the pack up, up into the crevice finally to be swallowed from view. Epps waits for the rope to come back down. He waits. He waits a beat more. No rope.
EPPS: What the hell took so long.
JAEGER: Just had to get the pack unhooked from the line. It didn't seem that long.
EPPS: Not when you're up here with the gold, I guess not.
WES: Not losing trust, are you?
EPPS: It'll be too dark to make our way back now. Let's bed down for the night and head out at first light.
WES: What about the gold?
EPPS: What about it?
WES: Maybe we should split it up now.
EPPS: We started this together, and we're staying together, so there's no point in splitting things up now.
WES: What if we get separated? Way I see it if something happens I want to be carrying my share.
JAEGER: Wes might be right about that.
EPPS: It stays as it is. We're halfway home now. Let's not blow it by people getting You're the one with all the ideas.
WES: You're the one with all the ideas.
EPPS: You've had your say, Wes. Now leave it.
WES: Maybe you've got ideas of your own for the gold. Maybe you've already got things worked out.
EPPS: Maybe I do.
WES: Maybe I don't need your ideas. Maybe I can do better on my own.
EPPS: I told you: When I straighten someone out they stay straightened. This is how it works: Nobody touches the gold. Except when we're on the move and someone's carrying it, nobody so much as opens the pack to get an eyeful of it.
JAEGER: Yeah. Sure. That sounds like a plan to
WES: You got no reason to hit me. I'm getting tired of you and Jaeger pushing me around.
EPPS: Then get up and do something about it.
BLACK: FADE TO:
WES: Stay down. Stay the hell down, or I will rip your stinking head off!
JAGER: What the hell?
WES: I caught him! I caught him trying to steal the gold.
EPPS: Get off him.
WES: ( Slightly crazed ) He snuck in here thinking we were asleep, only I wasn't sleeping. Would have slit our throats if I hadn't stopped him.
EPPS: Get off him!
WES: I told you. He tried to steal our gold. He tried to kill us.
JAEGER: With what? He doesn't have a weapon.
WES: He's a soldier. He doesn't need a weapon. He's got rocks. He's got bare
EPPS: Stop it!
WES: I told you; don't push me around.
EPPS: Tell me what he's saying.
WES: Says he's one of the soldiers that was in the helicopter.
JAEGER: He lived through that?
WES: Says they were deserters, they were afraid to fight, don't believe in Saddam anyway. They flew the gunship up here to hide out. When they saw us they figured we were going to kill them, so they shot Why'd he come in our camp.
EPPS: Why'd he come in our camp.
WES: Says he wanted food. Liar. He wanted the gold.
EPPS: How's he going to want the gold? He couldn't even know we had it.
WES: He.he could have been watching us.
JAEGER: Maybe we should give him some water.
WES: All last night he could have been
JAEGER: I think he wants something to drink.
WES: I'm not wasting my water on him.
EPPS: Doesn't matter. Whatever he wanted he didn't get it. We've got no need staying around here. It's light enough. Let's pack up and head out.
WES: What about him? We.we have to do
EPPS: You said he was a deserter.
WES: That's what he says. He could be a spy, or something.
EPPS: You don't know that.
WES: You don't know he isn't.
JAEGER: So we'll take him with us. At least 'til we get back to the Hummer.
WES: He'd just slow us down, and drink our water. And if we ran into any more Iraqis you know he'd sell us out.
EPPS: We don't leave him, we don't take him with us. What does that leave?
WES: He's an enemy soldier.
EPPS: I'm not going to let you kill him.
WES: We're at war.
EPPS: We are not at war! You and I and Jaeger are AWOL. We have no authority
WES: He tried to kill us. If not just now, then in the helicopter. That's all the authority I need.
JAEGER: We don't need to do this. We got the gold, all right? Let's just get out of
WES: I'm not going to leave him be just so he can stab us in the backs the minute we turn around. I have been through too much to lose it all now just because the two of you don't have the stomach to do what has to be done.
EPPS: I've got no stomach for murder.
WES: It's a combat action.
EPPS: It's murder, and I won't be any part of Then step aside.
WES: Then step aside.
EPPS: Get out of my way.
WES: Get out of my way.
JAEGER: For Christ's sake, we don't need this. Let's just go. Let's just.let's just get out of here.
WES: Shut up! Shut the hell up! He's getting away!
JAGER: He's getting away!
WES: He stands, smoke curling from the muzzle of his M-16 like a white snake, having just send the Iraqi some bullets special THE IRAQI He arches, stiffens, then falls like a stone past Epps and Jaeger to the ground below like a sack of potatoes. As the two climb down Wes goes to the body and stands over it like the great, white hunter standing over his kill. All business like he says:
THE IRAQI: He arches, stiffens, then falls like a stone past Epps and Jaeger to the ground below like a sack of potatoes. As the two climb down Wes goes to the body and stands over it like the great, white hunter standing over his kill. All business like he says:
WES: I had to. You saw how he ran. Would have given us away. I had to.
JAEGER: Maybe we ought to.you know, bury him. Say some words over him.
WES: You want to say some words?
EPPS: We should head Northeast.
JAEGER: Northeast? That's away from the Hummer; further into Iraqi.
EPPS: There's another pass on the photo. We can avoid that narrow one we had to cross on the way up, and it should get us back It should, or it will? Least going back the way we came we know what we're up You think you can make that pass weighted down when you almost fell the first time you're wrong, and you're not going to take my share of the gold with you trying it. We're heading Northeast.
JAEGER: It should, or it will? Least going back the way we came we know what we're up You think you can make that pass weighted down when you almost fell the first time you're wrong, and you're not going to take my share of the gold with you trying it. We're heading Northeast.
EPPS: You think you can make that pass weighted down when you almost fell the first time you're wrong, and you're not going to take my share of the gold with you trying it. We're heading Northeast.
WES: You've got an awful lot of orders in you. Always giving orders.
EPPS: I out rank you, that's why.
WES: In the service you do, but we're not particularly in the service right now. Way I see it, what we're doing, that doesn't particularly give you the right to toss orders around.
EPPS: We been down this road. I told you how it is. Unless you feel like there's something you want to do about it.
WES: What if I do?
EPPS: Something happens to me I let go of this grenade. I go, and I take the navicom with me. And how do you suppose you're going to find your way back to the Hummer, when you won't even know what's up or down. It's a big country, and you could be heading for the allies, or wandering right into Bhagdad. That's if you don't die of thirst before you even get that far. How you like my stick now?
JAEGER: Why don't you put the gun down, all right, Wes? You put the gun down and Epps'll put the pin back in the grenade. Won't you Epps?
WES: I'm starting to think you're a real bitch, you know that?
JAEGER: You're going to burn up in those.
WES: The white reflects the sun; it keeps you cooler. That's why they wear them.
JAEGER: Think the Iraqi's killed them all?
WES: Probably shot a few. Scattered the rest. Murder, or a combat action? It's hard to tell them apart?
EPPS: ( Pointed ) Murder, or a combat action? It's hard to tell them apart?
WES: You saw how he ran didn't you? First chance he got he ran out. Would have gone straight to his CO, told him all about the gold. What do you think would have happened then, huh? Then what do you think would have happened? Two thousand screaming Iraqis bearing down on us. You ought to thank me for killing him. I'll get a medal for it. Watch and see if I don't get a medal.
EPPS: What the hell.?
JAEGER: His words fall on deaf ears. Wes just takes a step closer to the pack of gold coins. This only serves to energize Jaeger. He digs deeper within himself finding an untapped reserve of strength. He grunts and pulls, the veins on his neck puffing like balloons. Epps finds same purchase. He pulls, swims, his way up from the sand. A little at first, but like hitting shallow water he's able to lift himself up. Jager jerks him the rest of the way up to firm ground. They collapse, chests heaving like pistons as they suck air. As Epps regains strength he pats himself down. Suddenly he goes back into a panic.
EPPS: The navicom!
JAEGER: What are we going to do? How are we going to find our way back!?
EPPS: We'll find our way.
JAEGER: We'll find our way! We'll.
EPPS: We'll find our way! We'll.
WES: No navicom. A lot of good you are now, Lot of good you were when I was sinking in the sand.
EPPS: Lot of good you were when I was sinking in the sand.
WES: Without that navicam looks to me like you forfeit the right to be in charge.
EPPS: And let me guess who is.
WES: I'm the one's got the big stick.
EPPS: Suppose I don't go for that?
WES: Then I suppose it'd be insurrection, and I suppose I'd have to kill you. I suppose.
EPPS: What about Jaeger?
WES: Nothing about him, unless he's got a problem about me dealing with you.
JAEGER: Yeah, I got a problem with you killing Epps.
JAEGER( CONT}: I mean, in principle.
WES: {Sneering ) You know, Jaeger, you really are a bitch. You die!
EPPS: We got to go back. We got to go back for Forget Wes.
JAEGER: Forget Wes.
EPPS: We can't just leave him.
JAEGER: Wes is dead!
EPPS: What if he's not?
JAEGER: Then he will be when those Iraqis get to him. He was going to kill you. He was one blink away from it. He's dead, Epps, and I'm sure as hell not getting my head blow off over his carcass.
EPPS: Ours. It's one of ours. We've got to signal them; let them know we're down
JAEGER: We need something: A flare, a signal
EPPS: We need something: A flare, a signal
JAEGER: What do you mean no? They can fly us home.
EPPS: What do you mean no? They can fly us home.
EPPS: We'll lie.
JAEGER: They'll search the pack.
EPPS: We're lost, you understand that? We've got no navicom, and no means to find a way back. So right now I don't give a damn about the gold because if we don't get off this desert, and out of Iraqi all it's going to be good for is buying us
JAEGER: I can't do it, Epps. Not when we're so close. I can't let you ruin everything. First Wes, now you?
EPPS: First Wes, now you?
JAEGER: I'm not like Wes. Wes was crazy.
EPPS: ( Sarcastic ) And you; you've got it all together.
JAEGER: I don't want it this way. I wouldn't kill you just to kill you, but I can't let you lose the gold for me. Not when we're so close.
EPPS: That helicopter passes, and the only thing we're close to is death.
JAEGER: Sit down, Epps.
EPPS: Is it all right if I stand up?
JAEGER: Oh, yeah. Go ahead.
EPPS: Yeah. Well, me too.
JAEGER: I never killed anybody before. I talk a good game, but I'm not like that.
EPPS: Really, I'm not. Remember how I was talking I wanted to blow away all those Iraqis? That's all it was was talk. I was scared out of my mind to go to war. I still haven't gotten over stepping on that land mine.
JAEGER: Really, I'm not. Remember how I was talking I wanted to blow away all those Iraqis? That's all it was was talk. I was scared out of my mind to go to war. I still haven't gotten over stepping on that land mine.
EPPS: You still got a map on you?
JAEGER: What? Yeah.
EPPS: I don't want to die.
JAEGER: I don't want to die.
EPPS: Makes two of us.
JAEGER: I know what I did just now was crazy, but you got to understand how much I want that gold.
EPPS: It's all right. I don't like it, but it's over now.
JAEGER: I never had anything before, Epps. I never was anybody. Not the kind of somebody you can be with a pocket full of gold coins. When I was in high school I used to
EPPS: Hey, you know what? Can I be honest with you? Right now I'm not all that interested in how you're messed up 'cause you didn't get the bicycle you wanted for your thirteenth birthday. What I'm interested in is how I can keep from getting dead. And listening to sob stories from some about how the system wasn't good to him because he had to work like everybody else instead of being born a Kennedy doesn't do a damn thing to help keep me alive. So do me a favor; either shut up, or.just shut up.
JAEGER: Epps sits down in the sand, all out of ideas. There's a long quiet before Jaeger says:
EPPS: Epps sits down in the sand, all out of ideas. There's a long quiet before Jaeger says:
JAEGER: What do you think our chances are?
EPPS: If we can find the Hummer, or some friendlies by sundown we might be okay. We've got enough water for that. But we won't make another day otherwise.
JAEGER: Wonder how the war's going?
EPPS: It's got to be going better than this..
EPPS{CONT ): All right. pick a direction.
JAEGER: You sure you want me too?
EPPS: Okay. Then we go this way.
JAEGER: Getting cold.
EPPS: It's a desert. That's what deserts do at night; they get cold.
JAEGER: Epps.Epps! I'm gonna stop for a Just let me rest for a second.
EPPS: Just let me rest for a second.
JAEGER: Just let me rest for a second.
EPPS: We've got to keep moving while there's still light.
JAEGER: You know what I'm going to do? I'm just going to take a second. I want to look at the gold.
EPPS: Don't you touch it.
JAEGER: I just want to look at it. Remind me of what I'm dying for.
EPPS: The deal was no one touches it until we get out of here.
JAEGER: Yeah, but we made that deal while Wes was still alive. He's gone. Time for a new
EPPS: You listen to me. If, this I don't care what you do with your share, but until then you've only got one thing to think about and that's staying alive. So you leave that gold alone, or you and I are going to have to have a serious talk.
JAEGER: Epps turns and looks. Off a ways is a light in the window of what looks to be a shack-type building. Epps stares at it as if it were the holy Grail
EPPS: Place all alone like that? Must be a boarder check point.
JAEGER: Which boarder? Saudi? Kuwait? Syria?
EPPS: Couldn't be Syria. We couldn't have gone that far north. It's got to be Saudi. Come on.
EPPS( CONT}: They've got to have water. We'll get same water, some directions, maybe they even have a vehicle.
JAEGER: We can head back for our lines, and they don't even have to know about the gold.
EPPS: We can head back for our lines, and they don't even have to know about the gold.
JAEGER: Epps. What if they're not Saudi.
EPPS: We've got no cboice. Either way, we've got no choice.
JAEGER: Well, we should identify ourselves.
EPPS: Well, we should identify ourselves.
JAEGER: Yeah, I guess we should.
EPPS: Even if they are Iraqis probably all they'll do is take us prisoner for awhile. Got to figure we're still kicking their asses in the war. They don't want any trouble.
JAEGER: Hell, they'll probably just surrender to us. Probably.
EPPS: That's if the war is even still going on. Way things were shaping up it's probably long over.
JAEGER: Epps takes a beat, then sucks in a breath. He yells for the Before Epps can even finish getting the word out machine gun fire erupts from the house and burns towards Epps and Jaeger. They dive for cover, hugging the ground as bullets whistle and ping through the space around them. They are forced back and down against a narrow stretch of rock, but it offers little protection and is chipped away by the hot lead. It's just a matter of moments before nothing stands before them and death. At the top of his lungs Jaeger starts yelling:
EPPS: Before Epps can even finish getting the word out machine gun fire erupts from the house and burns towards Epps and Jaeger. They dive for cover, hugging the ground as bullets whistle and ping through the space around them. They are forced back and down against a narrow stretch of rock, but it offers little protection and is chipped away by the hot lead. It's just a matter of moments before nothing stands before them and death. At the top of his lungs Jaeger starts yelling:
JAEGER: mahari dahra sahib!
EPPS: What did you say?
JAEGER: I don't know. Something Wes had taught me. I think it means "Don't shoot. We're your friends."
EPPS: They must be Saudis. It's a Saudi checkpoint. Oh sweet, Jesus. Come on. Come on!
JAGER: Oh, man, this is good. What do you think the chances are they've got a whirlpool in this place?
EPPS: They must have thought we were Iraqi when you yelled to them. They couldn't tell in the dark.
JAEGER: What are we going to do?
EPPS: Slip out your M-16.
JAEGER: And then what?
EPPS: And then shoot them.
JAEGER: I.I never killed anyone before. I told you that.
EPPS: Well, you're going to start with a bang, 'cause you've got four of them to take down.
JAEGER: Can't you
EPPS: I don't have a weapon.
JAEGER: I just said I would. I don't think I
EPPS: Shoot them!
BLACK: FADE TO:
JAEGER: Epp.Epps! There's someone at the
EPPS: An Iraqi?
JAEGER: I don't know. He didn't have a uniform on. He.he had on white robes, like the guys who killed Wes.
EPPS: Epps lowers himself back down and does some thinking.
JAEGER: What do we do?
EPPS: We can't stay here. Even if that wasn't an Iraqi soldier it's only a matter of time before some show up. Get all the water you can carry, and we'll head out on foot.
JAEGER: To where?
EPPS: Sun rises in the East. We go the opposite direction. May not find anything, but at least we'll know we're heading towards Saudi Arabia.
JAEGER: Mounted on a horse, riding on a dune that runs parallel to them, is ANOTHER ARAB MAN. He makes no effort to draw nearer to Epps and Jaeger, but nor does he lose them.
EPPS: We keep going, that's what we do. We ignore them, maybe they ignore us.
JAEGER: Jesus! How many of them are there?
EPPS: I don't like this. Let's go. What do you make of them?
JAEGER: What do you make of them?
EPPS: Shi'ites, I think.
JAEGER: Is that good, or bad?
EPPS: I don't know. They killed Wes.
JAEGER: Why haven't they killed us!?
EPPS: I don't know!
JAEGER: .Maybe.maybe we can fight our way With what? Against how many?
EPPS: With what? Against how many?
JAEGER: We can't just sit here waiting to die.
EPPS: You come up with a better plan, let me Maybe.maybe if we traded them the gold. If we gave it to them they might let us live; they might not kill us.
JAEGER: Maybe.maybe if we traded them the gold. If we gave it to them they might let us live; they might not kill us.
EPPS: You were shot. We were standing right there, you were shot!
JAEGER: You were shot. We were standing right there, you were shot!
WES: In the flack jacket. Still like getting hit in the back with a baseball bat. Took the air right out of me, but I was just unconscious for awhile. 'Course, you didn't stick around to find that out. You left me for dead.
EPPS: We thought
WES: YOU LEFT ME FOR DEAD!
JAEGER: We had to take shelter in the checkpoint. Jesus, Wes, I killed the Iraqis in there.
WES: You actually got around to killing someone. I'm impressed. I guess you're only half a bitch.
EPPS: Wes, we thought you were dead, and we thought we were next. Hanging around to get killed wouldn't have done anyone any Sure, and I guess it was just convenient there was one less person to split the gold with.
WES: Sure, and I guess it was just convenient there was one less person to split the gold with.
EPPS: Look, I know you guys are telling the truth. It's just the Shi'ites don't know that. I guess you could tell them.but then you don't speak the language do you?
WES: Look, I know you guys are telling the truth. It's just the Shi'ites don't know that. I guess you could tell them.but then you don't speak the language do you?
WES{CONT ): Do you!?
WES{CONT ): They're going to kill you slow. I'll see to that.
EPPS: Tell me something, Wes. Are you crazy, greedy, or just stupid? Jaeger says you're crazy.
JAEGER: I didn't say that. I never said
EPPS: Me? I say you don't have enough brains to be stupid.
WES: You disappoint me, Epps. Always figured you to be a man; a real bright guy. I had respect for you.
EPPS: That why you tried to put a bullet in my head in the middle of the desert.
WES: That's just what things came to. Sometimes you can't help that. It doesn't change me respecting you. And now you let me down. I expected more from you, you know? I really did. I expected you to
EPPS: You expect this?
WES: They'll kill you. You won't make it ten feet before they cut you down.
EPPS: You don't know John Epps very well, do Can you ride a horse?
JAEGER: Can you ride a horse?
EPPS: No, but I figure now's a real good time to start.
WES: I have to answer him.
EPPS: So you can give us away?
WES: If I don't answer, he'll know something's
EPPS: You answer him, but you answer him wrong and you're going to be staring at your insides while you're dying.
WES: Stop them!
JAEGER: They coming?
EPPS: Oh, yeah. They're coming.
JAEGER: We lost them! Which way?
EPPS: We go this way.
WES: The gold; give it to me.
EPPS: If I give it to you, will you let us go?
WES: Sure. Whatever you want. For old time
EPPS: It's like I said; you don't really know lieutenant John Epps very well, do you?
JAEGER: The.the gold.
EPPS: It wasn't the gold. It was the claymore mine. The gold's in my pack.
JAEGER: When did you make the switch?
EPPS: It's always been like that. When you left me down in the crevice to send the gold up I figured I'd better.take precautions. I rigged it to blow if anyone opened the pack. Just in case somebody thought they could do better on their own.
JAEGER: We had a deal. No one touches the gold until we're out of here. No one breaks the deal, no one had anything to worry What if it hadn't been Wes? What if.I mean, accidently, what if I had.
EPPS: We had a deal. No one touches the gold until we're out of here. No one breaks the deal, no one had anything to worry What if it hadn't been Wes? What if.I mean, accidently, what if I had.
JAEGER: What if it hadn't been Wes? What if.I mean, accidently, what if I had.
EPPS: You shouldn't think about things like that. It'll just make you crazy.
BLACK: FADE TO:
JAEGER: A car's got to come along sooner or later. When it does, we jack it.
EPPS: A car's got to come along sooner or later. When it does, we jack it.
JAEGER: How do we do that?
EPPS: You lie in the middle of the road, look like you're hurt. When the car stops I run over to the driver and put a gun to his head.
JAEGER: Why do I have to lie in the road?
EPPS: Somebody has to.
JAEGER: Yeah, but why me? What if the car doesn't stop?
EPPS: Then I'm a rich man.
JAEGER: I want you to know. I don't know. I just think you're a hell of a guy.
EPPS: I want you to know. I don't know. I just think you're a hell of a guy.
JAEGER: I want you to know. I don't know. I just think you're a hell of a guy.
EPPS: This whole time, you've kept your head. You didn't go money simple like me and Wes. You've just been trying to figure how to get us out of here. And you've been fair too. I mean, even after I.you know.
JAEGER: This whole time, you've kept your head. You didn't go money simple like me and Wes. You've just been trying to figure how to get us out of here. And you've been fair too. I mean, even after I.you know.
EPPS: Threatened to blow my brains out?
JAEGER: Yeah. Even after that. You didn't take it out on me, except for maybe making me lie in the middle of the road now. But I'd say you've been very fair. I just think it's a hell of a man who can keep from going money simple.
EPPS: Don't make so much out of it. Only reason I haven't figured a way to get all that money for myself is because I've been too busy figuring ways to stay alive. Believe me; if I had a minute to catch my breath I might have played things the way you and Wes had. I'm no better than anybody else. I've just been
JAEGER: I'm thinking about taking a trip.
EPPS: I'm thinking about taking a trip.
JAEGER: I'm thinking about taking a trip.
EPPS: Thought you were going to buy a car.
JAEGER: Still am. There's more gold than I thought, and since there's only two of us now. Where should I go?
EPPS: I don't know.
JAEGER: I've never been anywhere. I wouldn't know where to go. Where would you go?
EPPS: How the hell should I know?
JAEGER: I'd go to Australia. Lot of land, not many people. I think after this I'd like to quit people for awhile. And the girls go crazy for brothers down there.
EPPS: I'd go to Australia. Lot of land, not many people. I think after this I'd like to quit people for awhile. And the girls go crazy for brothers down there.
JAEGER: That's what I hear. Don't matter. Girls go crazy everywhere for a man with gold.
EPPS: That's what I hear. Don't matter. Girls go crazy everywhere for a man with gold.
JAEGER: Well, this is it. We get the car, find some Americans. We find Americans we'll be all right.
EPPS: We'll make up some kind of lie. They won't find the gold.
JAEGER: Okay. See you in a minute.
EPPS: He'll slow down.
JAEGER: He's not slowing.
EPPS: He's going to slow down.
JAEGER: The car barrels right for Jaeger. Forget what Epps says, it's not slowing down and Jaeger knows it.
EPPS: You speak English? DO YOU SPEAK
ENGLISH!?: ( Frightened )
DRIVER: ( Frightened )
EPPS: Where were you going?
DRIVER: What's in the other direction?
EPPS: What's in the other direction?
DRIVER: This road, it leads straight to Kuwait.
EPPS: Turn the car around.
DRIVER: Please, I beg of you. The American army is there. I am Iraqi. They will kill Nobody's going to hurt you.
EPPS: Nobody's going to hurt you.
DRIVER: You are Americans, yes?
EPPS: Yeah. We'll look for him. Look at this.
JAEGER: Look at this.
DRIVER: Iraqis. They are fleeing from Kuwait, from your military.
EPPS: See if you can't drive around this.
JAEGER: What the hell are they doing? There're civilians in there.
CIVILIANS!: Epps jumps up and drags Jaeger back down to cover as the shells fram the jets cut dangerously close to them. The jets bank and swoop for another run. Epps realizes there is something wrong. He looks around desperately, but doesn't see.THERE, BACK IN THE CAR!
EPPS: The gold!
JAEGER: Jaeger lunges for Epps but misses him. Epps snakes his way through the burning hulks towards their car. He dodges, jukes and weaves among shells, shrapnel and explosions that go off all around him. He just makes it to the car, grabbing up the gold, as the fighters once again swing low and cut A wicked hail of shells reigns down. It sets off a series of violent explosions that knocks Jaeger off his feet. It takes him a beat to recover. By then the fighters have done their job, and fly off. Jaeger stands. He walks towards the road over the plaintive wails of the barely living. The car, the gold, Epps. they are essentially disintegrated.
BLACK: FADE TO:
CHIEF JUSTICE: The members of this tribunal have reached a verdict. Based on the evidence presented we find the defended guilty as charged of desertion, insurrection, insubordination, and conduct unbecoming. Further the tribunal will recommend that the defendant be sentenced to life imprisonment, and that from this day forward he shall no longer walk as a free man. You should consider yourself quite fortunate, son. There was a time when lesser crimes would have found you before a firing squad. I don't know that a person like you has much to say for himself, but it is your right say
JAEGER: I'm sorry, I guess. Not for looking for the gold, or leaving my post. You know what it's like to have gold raining out of your hands? That'll give me enough to think about the rest of my days in the brig. I'm just sorry about Wes. He was all right. It was the gold that made him what he became. If I hadn't found that map, if I hadn't talked them into going searching.Wes just might have made it home after all. I guess I feel responsible for him.
CHIEF JUSTICE: The way I view things you're responsible for the lives of two men: Private First Class Wes Hanmond, and Second Lieutenant John Epps.
JAEGER: Yeah, well, I've been thinking about that. See, there was an explosion and everything, but I never really aaw Epps get killed. And nobody ever found the gold. I guess they both could have been burned to slag. I guess. But there were a lot of bodies out on that road. A smart man could have found some identification to use. A smart man could have made his way up to Syria or Turkey. A smart man could have gotten himself right out of the Middle East. A smart man with enough gold. Way I figure, right about now old Epps is sitting in a bar in Sydney, or Melboure, or maybe Brisbane telling stories to one of the prettiest Aussies you ever saw.
CHIEF JUSTICE: I find it highly unlikely that anyone could accomplish such a thing.
JAEGER: Well, Sir, I guess you don't know Second Lieutenant John Epps very well, do you?
BLACK: Writers : John Ridley
END: Writers : John Ridley
