THUNDERHEART: Written by John Fusco
CARL: Hey. Nice tie.
RAY: Hey. Nice tie.
CARL: Don't get too attached.
RAY: Ya got the paper?
CARL: You're my hero, Carl.
RAY: You're my hero, Carl.
CARL: Heroes ain't supposed to shake. I'm shakin', man, look at me.
RAY: Breathe, Carl. Four, nice, deep ones.
RAY: Anyone stops us going in, we're with the Bowen-Hamilton Textile Company. We have rug samples.
CARL: Rug samples.
RAY: We are one-dimensional, boring peddlers of fine carpet, Carl.
BLACK MAN: Hey, look who's here.
RAY: Louis, my man, what's happenin'?
FENCE MAN: Clean ones?
RAY: Ray gestures to Carl and he nervously sets his briefcase on the counter, fumbles with the first latch. The second. He flips it open. The fence man casts his eyes down at a neat cache of Grade A Treasury. A lot of it. Then his eyes rise to Carl.
FENCE MAN: What ya got there, seventy-five A hundred and ten. Count it.
CARL: A hundred and ten. Count it.
FENCE MAN: Carl's eyes flit to Ray. Ray's eyes flit to Carl. Louis crushes his newspaper down and lifts a big Colt Python from his lap just as A section of sheetrock kicks open and THREE FEDERAL OFFICERS bust out, each clutching a handgun, SHOUTING inaudibly.
SALLLLY!: Carl's eyes flit to Ray. Ray's eyes flit to Carl. Louis crushes his newspaper down and lifts a big Colt Python from his lap just as A section of sheetrock kicks open and THREE FEDERAL OFFICERS bust out, each clutching a handgun, SHOUTING inaudibly.
LOUIS: F.B.I.! Get your face on the fuckin' floor! MOVE! Slam dunk.
RAY: Slam dunk.
LOUIS: Beauty. Beauty.
CARL: Jesus Christ, Larry, what the fu Larry. That's not even your name, is it? What's your real name, you fucking Don't have one, Carl. I have a number, man. Just like the numbers on those treasury checks. You stole from your own country, Carl. Shame on you.
RAY: Don't have one, Carl. I have a number, man. Just like the numbers on those treasury checks. You stole from your own country, Carl. Shame on you.
LOUIS: Sugar Ray.
LOUIS: They want ya Home. Upstairs wants to see ya.
LOUIS: Make sure ya spell my name right.
CARL: ( incredulous ) We just spent four months together. I thought he was my friend. what the fuck, man? ( even more incredulous ) He had dinner at my mother's.
INTERCOM: SA Levoi, Sir.
TULLY: Seated, at the far end of the table, engrossed in the deep spread of information, SA ( Special Agent ) FRANK COUTURE is about to break the record for longest single ash on the end of a cigarette and the smoke forces his eyes into tight, concentrating, slits. "COOCH" as they call him in the Bureau has seen thirty years in some rough "provinces". He has survived the Hoover era and is a legend in the Sessions era but survival has honed an edge. An edge with a touch of ironic cop humor. Ray enters, walks into a firm shake.
TULLY: Mister Tully.
RAY: Mister Tully.
TULLY: Do you want a coffee?
RAY: No. No, no. Thank you.
TULLY: Levoi, Cooch. Raymond Levoi, Criminal Oh, yeah right. Ray this is
COOCH: Oh, yeah right. Ray this is
TULLY: Ray this is
TULLY: That's right.
COUTURE: Hello, Ray. It's an honor.
RAY: It's an honor.
TULLY: Ray, we're taking you off the street. We need you out in South Dakota.
RAY: South Dakota. Did I do something unsatisfactory, No, Ray. You're gonna have to blame that on your grandmother.
COOCH: No, Ray. You're gonna have to blame that on your grandmother.
TULLY: Interesting bloodline you have, Ray. French, Scots-Irish, Italian, .and one-eighth American Indian.
COOCH: Sioux Indian, right?
RAY: I'm not that sure. Yeah, I think
TULLY: yes, Teton Sioux. Father's side.
TULLY: Ray, there's been a homicide out in an area known as The Badlands. Indian It's not the first. There's been several. And our field office in Rapid City is getting a lot of heat. none of the investigations have turned up jack shit.
COOCH: It's not the first. There's been several. And our field office in Rapid City is getting a lot of heat. none of the investigations have turned up jack shit.
TULLY: The main problem is, Ray, these people are extremely distrustful of outsiders, non-Indians. Relations have not been amicable.
COOCH: Different culture. Hard to penetrate. The Indians don't like white cops poking around. And that's why we're in a position where we have to bring in an American Indian agent.
TULLY: With an Indian representative out there, we hope to keep hostilities dormant; this is a COINTELPRO, Selective Operations Unit, and it'll be easier on Agent Couture if you can gain the people's trust and maybe
RAY: Woh, excuse me, Sir. I see what you're saying. I've got a little Indian blood, that's true. But I am not an. an Indian. I can't just go in and
TULLY: your father was part Sioux.
RAY: I didn't know him, Sir. He passed away when I was six.
COOCH: Ray looks up at Cooch. Another uneasy beat. Cooch lights a cigarette as if lighting a cigarette was a science.
COOCH: Don't worry about it, Ray. As long as the people have proof that we sent them one of their own, no one's gonna ask you to weave baskets or make it rain.
RAY: Eight murders in less than a year. All of them Indian. All of them unsolved. Is the law a non-entity out here or what?
COOCH: Those are two agents who went into a reservation a few years ago to serve a warrant. They were executed at close range. That one there is a police officer killed by the Mohawks up in Canada more recently.
RAY: The agents who have worked out here say its like going into Nam. Unfamiliar terrain, foreign language, foreign customs. and you never know when you might walk into a few rounds. They hold a lot of old anger for the white man out here.
COOCH: The agents who have worked out here say its like going into Nam. Unfamiliar terrain, foreign language, foreign customs. and you never know when you might walk into a few rounds. They hold a lot of old anger for the white man out here.
RAY: Were you in Nam?
COOCH: Airborne. That's where they used to get us agents from. Now we get 'em from Carnegie-Melon, Ivy League. Accountants and computer whiz-kids. Yuppies with guns. That's scary shit.
RAY: Not as scary as a Hoover man with a
COOCH: Hey, hey, hey. J. Edgar would've loved you. He'd love anybody who joined the bureau to, what was it? "To enforce the laws of my country and protect her interests"?
RAY: You crashed my file?
COOCH: No. I consulted it. We're going into Indian Country, I wanna know what kind of individual is covering my ass. Don't you? You've been in the bureau for thirty years. You survived The Hoov, the Black Panthers and Abscam. I don't see any bullet holes. That's good enough for me.
RAY: You've been in the bureau for thirty years. You survived The Hoov, the Black Panthers and Abscam. I don't see any bullet holes. That's good enough for me.
COOCH: Who found him?
MILES: Indian kids. Hunting fossils.
COOCH: Okay. I think Agent Levoi and I can proceed from here. What are your call signals?
SHERMAN: PX-10 and 11. Anything we can do to help you out, just radio.
COOCH: Good. Thanks, Guys.
RAY: Leo Fast Elk. Thirty seven. single. Member of the Tribal
COOCH: Looks like Fast Elk wasn't fast enough to outrun that load. What do you make of the damage?
RAY: Six rounds. 357.
COOCH: That's what it looks like, doesn't it? But that's what a ten gauge, choke-bored, shotgun will look like when it hits your lower back from five feet away.
RAY: Somebody was serious about doing this guy, that's for sure.
COOCH: Cooch is standing ten feet away, staring at the ground. Ray walks over, carefully. He follows Cooch's frown down at the twisted layers of earth.
COOCH: Good morning.
COOCH: Taking ol' Leo somewhere?
CROW HORSE: Leo's been out here too long, man. I'm taking him to ceremonial burial.
RAY: This is a restricted area.
COOCH: Check him out, Ray.
COOCH: Nice piece. You come back here to cover your tracks, Geronimo? What's your name?
CROW HORSE: It ain't Geronimo.
COOCH: Who are you?
CROW HORSE: I think maybe you guys got off the wrong exit, yeah? This is the Bear Creek Indian Reservation. I know where I am. I'm on federal land, doing a federal investigation, and if you don't wanna cooperate you can take a ride in a federal car, and spend the rest of the day in a little room, answering federal questions. It's your call. Who are I'm a full blood Oglala Sioux, born and raised on this reservation.
COOCH: I know where I am. I'm on federal land, doing a federal investigation, and if you don't wanna cooperate you can take a ride in a federal car, and spend the rest of the day in a little room, answering federal questions. It's your call. Who are I'm a full blood Oglala Sioux, born and raised on this reservation.
CROW HORSE: I'm a full blood Oglala Sioux, born and raised on this reservation.
COOCH: You're a wise-ass. Ray check his I did.
RAY: I did.
COOCH: Who the fuck is he?
RAY: a fucking cop.
RAY: Walter Crow Horse. Tribal Police.
COOCH: He's a fucking cop.
CROW HORSE: We got the wire ya was comin'. You're the Indian official, yeah?
COOCH: No. No, that's Ray, here. Ray, uh. Ray. Little Weasel.
CROW HORSE: Leo's gotta get to burial, Brother. He's gotta make the journey.
COOCH: What journey?
CROW HORSE: Tell him, Ray. Leo has to take the journey, Cooch.
RAY: Leo has to take the journey, Cooch.
COOCH: We'll have to give Leo a refund. Because he's gotta go to the M.E. In case you don't know, Officer, violation of the Major Crimes Act on
CROW HORSE: an Indian Reservation is within the jurisdiction of the Federal Bureau of Intimidation. I know that.
COOCH: Good. Thank you.
CROW HORSE: I said when can Leo be taken to After we've completed our
RAY: After we've completed our
CROW HORSE: That's a nice suit.
COOCH: Somebody must be doing something somewhere in your jurisdiction, Officer Crow Foot.
CROW HORSE: You ain't gonna cut his hands off and send 'em to Washinton, are ya? They done that to one of our girls once. Leo did quillwork, he's gonna need his hands.
RAY: Leo's gonna need his hands, Cooch. He does quillwork.
COOCH: I think Leo's retired from quillwork for the moment.
CROW HORSE: Respect the dead, Hoss. Because when
COOCH: did you understand me when I said violation of the Major Crimes Act on an Indian Reservation is within the jurisdiction of the Federal Bureau of Instigation. I know that.
CROW HORSE: ( walking away ) violation of the Major Crimes Act on an Indian Reservation is within the jurisdiction of the Federal Bureau of Instigation. I know that.
COOCH: Crow Horse appears to be getting on his bike when suddenly he moves like a cat and lays his knife to the dead man's head. He cuts away a patch of hair.
COOCH: What the hell you doing?!
CROW HORSE: His mother needs a piece of his hair. It's for the Keeping of the Souls Has to be kept for four days.
COOCH: Keeping of the souls. Do they still burn their dead or something?
RAY: Beats the hell outta me.
COOCH: Sorry, Ray. You're gonna have to wait in the car. I'll bring you out a cheeseburger.
CLEAR MOON: ( heavy Indian accent ) You made it. Was-te. You must be. President Clear Bone.
COOCH: You must be. President Clear Bone.
CLEAR MOON: Clear Moon. Moon. You must be the Sioux.
COOCH: No. That's Ray here. Ray.
RAY: ( quickly ) Ray Levoi, Sir. Pleasure. It's about time they sent us one of our own. Was-te.
CLEAR MOON: It's about time they sent us one of our own. Was-te.
CLEAR MOON: Things are no good here. It is like war zone. We need an official who understands what is good for the Indian people. Who knows Indian way.
RAY: I thought we were staying on the Yes. Rooms thirteen and fourteen are on Indian land.
CLEAR MOON: Yes. Rooms thirteen and fourteen are on Indian land.
RAY: I see.
CLEAR MOON: Are you hungry? I have some nice raw kidney in the truck.
RAY: Oh, I'm set, Sir. I'm set.
COOCH: He's starving, Mr. Clear Moon. Get him some raw kidney. He hasn't had any Indian food in days.
WHITE LOCAL: Where you goin'? Back to the res?
WHITE LOCAL: What ya doin'? You drunk?
COOCH: Let's take a walk.
COOCH: What's goin' on here? I can't walk across the goddamn street without some breed-ass fallin' all over me?
COOCH: Watch out now, he wants a kiss, Ray, wants a kiss
COOCH: Go ahead, skin, get your ass back on your sacred land. Get outta here.
COOCH: Get outta here. Drive.
DENNIS: So what type of salesmen are you gentlemen anyway?
RAY: Liquor. We heard they like their drink on the reservation, and we were gonna see if we couldn't unload some surplus on the way to Nebraska.
COOCH: Now keep that between us, Dennis, cuz I don't know what kinda Johnny Law they got here.
DENNIS: Hey, Brooks, come over here. I want you to meet a coupla fellas from
DENNIS: Liquor salesmen. Be nice to them, maybe they'll give you a sample of some of that gin you like. He likes that Russian shit that
BROOKS: They ain't liquor salesmen. They're
COOCH: Brooks, what's a perceptive fellow like you, doing in a joint like this? Let me buy you a glass of some of that Russian shit you like.
DENNIS: FBI? What you investigatin'?
COOCH: A murder. On the reservation.
DENNIS: Again. Figures, man.
BROOKS: You'll never find out who did it.
COOCH: You underestimate me, Brooks.
BROOKS: No. You underestimate these grass niggers. They're killing each other. That's all they do. Get drunk and kill each other. Then cover for each other. Who gives a damn really as long as they stay on their reservation. You ask me, the government shouldn't care one You know how in your big cities, you got your niggers and you got your Puerto Ricans? Well out here we got Indians. That's just the way it is.
DENNIS: You know how in your big cities, you got your niggers and you got your Puerto Ricans? Well out here we got Indians. That's just the way it is.
COOCH: The only good Indian is a dead Indian, does that old adage still hold true out here? That set-to you saw out front, was nothin' more than a message we were sendin' to the sonsabitches that are divertin' water from the river.
BROOKS: That set-to you saw out front, was nothin' more than a message we were sendin' to the sonsabitches that are divertin' water from the river.
DENNIS: We got rights. We got a ranch just up here.
RAY: Did any of you gentlemen know Leo Fast Elk?
BROOKS: You fellas are here to investigate a Indian crime, you should keep to Indian land, and talk to them, not us. But you wanna drink here and shoot stick here, that's your right, and we respect that. Come on, Son, we're up on the table.
DENNIS: You fellas wanna play doubles?
RAY: Water. Worth killing for out here, I'd think.
COOCH: Get the plate numbers off everyone of these cars.
RAY: I already did.
RAY: Couldn't sleep.
COOCH: They stop in front of their rooms and Cooch pulls a small tape recorder from his waistband. A micro-cassette recorder that he examines in the dim door light.
RECORDER: ( locals ) out here we got our Indians. And that's the way it is.
COOCH: By the time you get to the main village, sun'll be up. I want you to fraternize. Socialize. Penetrate. Infiltrate. Eat some raw kidney, and get these Indians talking. I'm gonna Powwow with Big Chief Clear Moon and find out more about Leo.
RAY: Cooch starts for his room but in a long, exaggerated country step as he breaks into the HANK WILLIAMS tune that has all but driven him insane inside the joint. Ray watches him go, and cracks a laugh.
RAY: Hobert Standing-Buffalo-That-Walks- Hello, I'm looking for Hobert Standing- Buffalo-That-Walks. Dreamer.
RAY: Good morning. I'm looking for Hobert- Hobert Standing-Buffalo-That-Walks
RAY: Ray stands there for a moment then lowers himself to look through the huge hole in the door.
RAY: A tattered chair is pushed against the door, covering the hole. Ray stands up, turns on the steps. And before he can let out a flustered sigh, he spots something across the dirt road. Something that makes him remove his shades, look again. Whatever it is, it doesn't make him happy, and he is hurrying across the road.
CROW HORSE: Ray Little Weasel. FBI. I like the way ya sneaked up on me. Must be
RAY: What are you
CROW HORSE: Watch out!
RAY: CROW HORSE
CROW HORSE: You're steppin' on sign.
RAY: ( ignored ) Hey, you, listen up
CROW HORSE: Leo wasn't killed here. He was dumped here. Out of a vehicle. Bald tread. Muffler held on with baling
CROW HORSE: The man you want. stepped outta the car, dragged Leo out, laid him down. Then walked over here and made a circle in the earth with a stick. I can't find the stick. He stuck an eagle plume in the circle, got back in his car, dustin' his own prints with a pine bough for about six feet, but he missed a print, right here, see. He got in his car and went Hell- bent-for-Holy-Sunday outta here. He ditched that pine bough three miles across the flat, in the Little Bear River, it floated down to Thundershield Gap. The car hit paved road, and was outta here.
CROW HORSE: The killin' was done where Leo's mother lives. But he was driven here into these Badlands. Big sonuvabuck. Based on the depth of that print, pressure releases. I'd say he goes two-ten, two-fifteen
CROW HORSE: Big sonuvabuck. Based on the depth of that print, pressure releases. I'd say he goes two-ten, two-fifteen
RAY: CROW HORSE
CROW HORSE: Well, maybe two-seventeen.
RAY: You're trying to tell me you can read all that from a track?
CROW HORSE: No. Not just a track. You gotta listen to the trees, man. To the leaves. To this sand, you FBI's kicked all up. You gotta listen to the earth.
RAY: Is that right? Well, listen to this: drag your ass. This is a restricted No, this is the home of the Oglala Sioux and I want the dog-fucker who killed Leo. Whether you get him or I get him, I just want him. Shit's been goin' on too long.
CROW HORSE: No, this is the home of the Oglala Sioux and I want the dog-fucker who killed Leo. Whether you get him or I get him, I just want him. Shit's been goin' on too long.
RAY: You've got no jurisdiction.
CROW HORSE: You got no know-how. About Indian Way. Or about Jack Shit for that Maybe you're not aware of this, Crow Horse, but I just flew in from a place called the Twentieth Century where we have such things as electrostatic tracking methods, psycholingusitics, DNA fingerprinting; I don't have to crawl around with the scorpions and talk to the fucking trees to get answers. Leo was killed right here.
RAY: Maybe you're not aware of this, Crow Horse, but I just flew in from a place called the Twentieth Century where we have such things as electrostatic tracking methods, psycholingusitics, DNA fingerprinting; I don't have to crawl around with the scorpions and talk to the fucking trees to get answers. Leo was killed right here.
CROW HORSE: Go back to the M.E., take a look inside Leo's exit wounds and tell me how chicken feed got in there. Trust me, there ain't chickens in the Badlands. His mother's place is
RAY: his mother never lived here. She was from up in North Dakota.
CROW HORSE: I'm talkin' his spiritual mother. Maisy Blue Legs.
RAY: His spiritual mother.
CROW HORSE: To us Indians, our spiritual relatives are as close as family. I've got seven mothers on this reservation. Sisters. Brothers. You ain't one of Thank God. Now listen to me, asshole. I'm giving you a break. But if my partner finds out you're here, you're gonna be reading rat tracks in Sioux Falls Maximum Security.
RAY: Thank God. Now listen to me, asshole. I'm giving you a break. But if my partner finds out you're here, you're gonna be reading rat tracks in Sioux Falls Maximum Security.
CROW HORSE: Easy. Easy. I'm goin'.
CROW HORSE: You weigh one sixty-three, yeah? Not a beer drinker. You're one of these tofu and pilaf characters. Pack your gun, under your coat left shoulder. But you got backup; a little .32, .38 maybe, in a ankle holster that gives you a right foot drag, Shoes are too tight at the toe but, man, they look cool. And that's what
RAY: Crow Horse. Fuck you.
RAY: Fuck you.
THE BADLANDS: Ray stands, sweating under his suit jacket, and not sure if he's amazed or pissed off.
RAY: Mrs. Blue Legs? Can I ask you a few questions
MAISY: ( 1/3 res speed ) go away. Leave us alone.
RAY: Ma'am, Please
RAY: Mrs. Blue Legs. I'm Indian.
RAY: I'm Sioux.
RAY: Yeah, right.
RAY: Shit. Mrs. Blue Legs! It's okay!
RAY: ( yelling ) Black Tail District, X22. You ready for this? Leo wasn't killed in the Badlands. I. I found the location.
COOCH: Maisy Blue Legs place?
RAY: How'd you know?
COOCH: I got one up on ya.
RAY: Go ahead.
COOCH: I've got the doer. I know who he is.
COOCH: Meet me at base. Over.
RAY: Cooch. You're my hero.
RAY: Who is he?
COOCH: One of the leaders of the Warriors of All Red Nations. Militant
RAY: White eagle feather through the circle. That's their symbol.
COOCH: That's right.
RAY: They obviously wanted it to be known that they offed Leo. Some kind of Jimmy Looks Twice put Leo's head through a glass door of the tribal offices three months ago. And threatened him several times since. President Clear Moon and the regional FBI feel he made good on that threat.
COOCH: Jimmy Looks Twice put Leo's head through a glass door of the tribal offices three months ago. And threatened him several times since. President Clear Moon and the regional FBI feel he made good on that threat.
RAY: I'd just like five minutes alone with the motherfucker who hung that flag upside down.
COOCH: Easy, Cowboy. No vendettas on my ship. Now: remember what I told you about Nam? Watch the grass, watch the trees, watch the shit house, be on your toes, and if we get committed, don't hesitate to empty that sucker.
RAY: Alright. Alright. It's show time.
COOCH: It's show time.
RAY: ( whispering ) What the hell is that?
RAY: On the ground.
COOCH: This is the FBI! Come on out of there nice and slow. Let's move it! Hands on your head!
RAY: Hands on your head, Sir. Come on, come on.
LOOKS TWICE: ( outraged ) What are you doing?
COOCH: James Looks Twice?
LOOKS TWICE: That's right. What are you doing here? This is a religious ceremony you're desecrating.
RAY: We're FBI, James. We just need to ask you a few questions.
LOOKS TWICE: We are in the middle of a sweat lodge ceremony. Do you drag people out of your churches when they're in the middle of prayer?
COOCH: Let's take a walk, Jimmy. Come on. Go ahead. You can all go home.
RAY: Go ahead. You can all go home.
COOCH: We just wanna take a look around your place, Jimmy. We're not here to bust your balls.
LOOKS TWICE: What's this about?
COOCH: Your good friend Leo Fast Elk.
LOOKS TWICE: You think I killed him? Cuz he was an apple? Well, let me tell you something about Leo, Man
COOCH: don't "man" me, Jimmy. Where's the key? Ray, use the federal master key.
COOCH: Ray, use the federal master key.
LOOKS TWICE: No. Don't do that. Don't deface the property, man. The key's in there.
LOOKS TWICE: Inside. in the coffee can.
COOCH: There's no coffee can in
COOCH: Jesus. Jesus.
COOCH: Get him.
OPEN FIELD: all he finds is Jimmy's towel. He picks it up and looks around the area, breathing heavily. And then suddenly, something leaps up out of the grass. Ray swings his M-16 up, ready to blast. But it is a DEER, taking off into a mystical blue night. THE DRUM. Beating fast. Heavy.
COOCH: ( into radio ) Assault on federal officers. Suspect has left the area. One officer down. Issue a Fugitive Alert immediately. Has the officer been shot, X-22?
RADIO: Has the officer been shot, X-22?
COOCH: No, the officer's been bitten by a fucking badger, okay? Get a Fugitive Alert fucking now! Over.
CROW HORSE: You're an easy man to track, Ray. Ya walk like a penguin with a hard-on.
RAY: Is that right? What are the trees saying today?
CROW HORSE: They're sayin' that nobody's gonna talk to you cuz they don't give away one of their own. But they did say there's somebody way across the Little Walking River who wants to talk to
CROW HORSE: He sent me to find ya. He says he's got information.
RAY: Let's go.
CROW HORSE: ( with reverence ) Grandpa Samuel Reaches. Heavy duty Medicine. As in medicine man? Why does he wanna see me?
RAY: Medicine. As in medicine man? Why does he wanna see me?
RAY: Why does he wanna see me?
CROW HORSE: Good question. Hardly sees anybody anymore. Hasn't left this place in twenty years. Did you bring some
CROW HORSE: When you go see an elder, you always bring some tobacco as a gift.
RAY: What did he say?
CROW HORSE: He wants to know if you ever watch the Cookie Monster. He says the Cookie Monster is not to be trusted a
CROW HORSE: He says there's something wrong with Big Bird he's crazy, He says you stopped the Inipi ceremony last night.? But he is not unhappy with you because he knows you.
CROW HORSE: But he is not unhappy with you because he knows you.
RAY: He knows me?
CROW HORSE: He says he saw you in a vision some time ago.
CROW HORSE: I guess he had this vision some time ago, in the Moon of the Popping Trees uh, back in the winter. He says you come from Wasi'cu city in the East but that your people. way back. are of the Minniconjou Sioux. But you yourself don't know that.
CROW HORSE: He says he knew you'd be coming to Bear Creek. He was told. It is the will of Tunkasilia the grandfather that you come here. He says let's smoke the caanunpa the sacred pipe, symbol of truth. So that there will be no lies between us.
RAY: What's he smoke in that?
CROW HORSE: Sacred herbs. Tobacco. Don't worry, we don't smoke no Mexican agriculture in The Pipe. That's a white man's myth. This is a sacrament.
GRANDPA: Mltaku Oyasin.
CROW HORSE: You don't smoke with him, it means you're hiding something.
CROW HORSE: He says Wakan. Sacred. Five hundred year old turtleshell rattle, passed down from the Grandfathers. Heavy
CROW HORSE: He says, it is good. The Spirits are here. The Spirits want to know what you're doing here?
RAY: Tell him I'm trying to find the man who murdered Leo Fast Elk. Ask him if he knows where he is.
RAY: What did he say?
CROW HORSE: He said he doesn't know.
RAY: He just did the Gettysburg Address in Sioux. What did he say?
CROW HORSE: Uh. Grandpa likes to trade; no one stops by here without gettin' stuck in the old Indian barter. He, uh. he likes your shades.
RAY: What was he saying?
CROW HORSE: Why should I tell you.
RAY: Because he was talking to me.
RAY: Does he know something?
CROW HORSE: The old man saw an owl. Over there in the dry wash. Last week.
RAY: CROW HORSE
CROW HORSE: He saw an owl. So what?
RAY: So what?
CROW HORSE: The owl is a messenger. When one shows itself to a Sioux. it means someone's gonna die. The owl told him about Leo.
RAY: The owl told him about Leo. That's incredible. I guess we just broke the back of this investigation, didn't we? Evidence doesn't get any harder than that not for my money. Is there anyway we can seduce this owl into Federal Court?
CROW HORSE: He also said "listen to the water."
RAY: Listen to the water. Listen to the owl. He also said, don't trust the fucking Cookie Monster.
CROW HORSE: Go back to your DNA finger-printin'.
A WACIPI: is going down. A Powow. Held in the center of a huge arbor. This DANCER, a traditional Kit Fox dancer, is dressed in authentic costume and is dancing with TEN OTHERS dressed in various traditional garb and paints. Under the arbor, TWO HUNDRED INDIANS in modern clothing sit on blankets or in lawn chairs, watching the dancing. A group of SINGERS sit around a big drum, beating on it, and wailing the song that keeps the dancers hopping. SIXTY CARS ( res beaters ) are parked off around the arbor, less interested kids sitting on them, smoking cigarettes. A few actually have MTV hair-cuts. Drifting through the cars and people are Special Agents Couture, Miles, Sherman and Levoi. They stroll through, incongruously, checking out faces. Vehicles. Ray slows his step and takes in
CALLER: Was-te Yelo! Let's have five more veterans. Five more veterans. Hoka
CHASING HAWK: What is that that you honor there, uncles? After all the Wasi'cu country has done to you, after all he still does to you, you honor that flag?! That flag has been desecrated by the United States, because they have not honored what that flag represents!
MILES: Okay. Here we go.
COOCH: Who's this guy?
SHERMAN: Anderson Chasing Hawk. Second in command behind Jimmy.
SHERMAN: Magedelana Eagle Bear. Eagle's claws and a bear's balls.
MILES: She keeps an AR-15 assault rifle in her truck. And she'll use it.
RAY: Mr. Clear Moon.
CLEAR MOON: Our police are afraid of them. Please get them out of here.
CLEAR MOON: They're going to kill me next. That's what I hear. These new Indians are destroying everything. Our people are a quiet people.
RAY: They can lead us to Jimmy. Just let them go. We're tightening the net on him. We know he's on the reservation.
CLEAR MOON: Help us.
AGENT SHERMAN: Where's Jimmy? We thought he'd be dancing today.
YELLOW BIRD: Are you the Washington Redskin?
AGENT MILES: Say hello to Richard Yellow Bird,
COOCH: Ray, get to Jimmy's place and keep it tight. I'm gonna get a tail on his Warriors.
RAY: X22. Read.
RADIO: Go ahead, Ray.
RAY: I have a pick-up truck. No plates. Subject Indian entering suspect's house. Over.
RADIO: Okay, Ray. I'm coming in. If he starts to leave the area, move in. And hold him. Over.
RAY: FBI, freeze, Motherfucker drop it, drop it! Turn around, put your hands on the roof of the truck.
RAY: Turn around, put your hands on the roof of the truck.
MAGGIE: You're the Indian FBI.
RAY: That's right. Turn around.
MAGGIE: The people are glad they sent you. They usually send in guys who come at ya with highbeams, screamin' "drop it, Motherfucker", stick a gun in your face, frisk ya down. Even if ya got a child with ya. No, it's good to have ya. It's gonna be was-te times on the res.
MAGGIE: I was gonna warn ya about messin' with somebody's medicine bundle but I forgot you know all about that
RAY: This Jimmy's?
MAGGIE: You're not gonna catch him. He can shape-shift into different animals. Bear. Elk. Porcupine.
RAY: Is that like an hereditary thing, Magdelana, or can one take classes?
MAGGIE: Jimmy didn't kill Leo. Why do you wanna do this?
RAY: He tried to kill him twice before. That's a good place to start don't ya think? Leo was on the other side, wasn't he?
MAGGIE: Leo was an apple, that's right. Red on the outside, white on the inside. And Jimmy hated him. Kicked his ass a coupla times. But he didn't kill him.
RAY: Who did?
MAGGIE: You're the FBI. That's your job, isn't it? Ya know how many of our Warrior brothers got killed out here? I never saw any investigating then. Why now? What's going down here?
RAY: A Fugitive Alert for a murder suspect. Before somebody else gets a shotgun blast in the spine.
MAGGIE: Try the Fort Laramie Treaty. All over again. Look. You and I can stand here in a culture clash til the sun comes up, talking about what's right and what's wrong. You're from the reservation. It's a different world.
RAY: Look. You and I can stand here in a culture clash til the sun comes up, talking about what's right and what's wrong. You're from the reservation. It's a different world.
MAGGIE: I'm from Minneapolis. Fifth Street. I did four years at Dartmouth before I ever set foot on this res. So I know about the other world, Ray.
MAGGIE: Are you gonna keep that medicine bundle or are you gonna respect its
MAGGIE: Thank you.
RAY: When you see Jimmy, tell him the sooner he turns himself back into a human being and gives himself in. the sooner we back off this reservation. Okay?
MAGGIE: Grandpa Reaches says you come from heavy Indian blood. I used to think Grandpa was gettin' senile. Now I know he is.
RAY: Move it, Magdelana.
COOCH: Ray, you alright?
AGENT SHERMAN: What do we got, Ray?
RAY: It was just Eagle Bear. I questioned and released her.
COOCH: What'd she say?
RAY: She talks a lot of shit. We're not doing our job. Jimmy's innocent. "What's the FBI really doing here." Some shit about the Fort Laramie
RAY: She took something from the house. What she called a medicine bundle. Most likely Jimmy's.
COOCH: Let's see it.
RAY: I gave it back to her.
AGENT SHERMAN: If it is Jimmy's, she's taking it to him. We'll have a runner. But I borrowed a little mojo.
RAY: If it is Jimmy's, she's taking it to him. We'll have a runner. But I borrowed a little mojo.
COOCH: Way to go, Raymond. Miles, take that to lab. Sherman, I want you to go back to base and produce some written material. Something that indicates that our girl Maggie is leaking information to us. And make sure that material finds its way into the hands of the Warrior Movement.
COOCH: You gentlemen missed that medicine basket. Go back through the house, and make sure you missed nothing else. And lay some wire, too. Let's do it.
COOCH: That's good goddamn work, Ray. Let the salmon run. Let 'em run Upriver.
RAY: Why we setting Eagle Bear up as an Her own people start to suspect her, it creates discord from within. The Warriors don't know who to trust, they start infighting, and Jimmy loses his support.
COOCH: Her own people start to suspect her, it creates discord from within. The Warriors don't know who to trust, they start infighting, and Jimmy loses his support.
COOCH: Her oil pan is shot.
RAY: Cooch. What's the Fort Laramie Treaty?
COOCH: Jesus, I don't know. You tell me. You're the Indian.
COOCH: Get a tail on her, Ray.
RAY: ( a quiet, tired laugh ) Where the fuck did they send us?
COOCH: A long way from home. You be careful out there.
DOWN BELOW: Ray looks up at the pole, watching. Then walking on.
THE BADLANDS: possess an otherworldly beauty at this magic hour, a maze of shadows and rainbows. In the distance we cannot mistake the frame of Walter Crow Horse. He's out there, long hair blowing against the white bluffs. Stalking. Tracking.
RAY: For all I know, you're Jimmy. And you're just waiting for a shot at my jugular. Drink, Jimmy. Milk is good for you
CROW HORSE: Don't be mad. That was just an old traditional gesture that means hello, how are you.
RAY: I see. Forgive my cultural ignorance.
RAY: Have a nice day.
CROW HORSE: Jimmy didn't do it, Ray. I checked it out. You can stop taggin' my She's your sister?
RAY: She's your sister?
RAY: Gotchya. We just nailed a genetic match between the eagle feather left at the murder site and one in Jimmy's medicine bundle. It came from a white eagle. Same bird. So did this one. Wambli is a rare and sacred creature. When someone finds a dead one, the feathers get around the res. We share everything. A lot of power in the eagle feathers. But you think that's bullshit too, Leo Fast Elk was sitting in the outhouse at Maisy Blue Legs when a car pulled into the yard. He came out, approached the vehicle then saw that the man behind the wheel was Jimmy. He tried to get back into the trailer, but the car came highballing at him. He started running for the open grass. With the car moving, Jimmy hung his shotgun out the window, took aim missed once, hitting the shitter fired again, and severed Leo's spine. Leo fell, rolled, and came to a stop in the grass. And some chicken feed. Stale chicken feed with four days mold. Electromagnetic printing.
CROW HORSE: So did this one. Wambli is a rare and sacred creature. When someone finds a dead one, the feathers get around the res. We share everything. A lot of power in the eagle feathers. But you think that's bullshit too, Leo Fast Elk was sitting in the outhouse at Maisy Blue Legs when a car pulled into the yard. He came out, approached the vehicle then saw that the man behind the wheel was Jimmy. He tried to get back into the trailer, but the car came highballing at him. He started running for the open grass. With the car moving, Jimmy hung his shotgun out the window, took aim missed once, hitting the shitter fired again, and severed Leo's spine. Leo fell, rolled, and came to a stop in the grass. And some chicken feed. Stale chicken feed with four days mold. Electromagnetic printing.
RAY: ( ala Crow Horse ) Leo Fast Elk was sitting in the outhouse at Maisy Blue Legs when a car pulled into the yard. He came out, approached the vehicle then saw that the man behind the wheel was Jimmy. He tried to get back into the trailer, but the car came highballing at him. He started running for the open grass. With the car moving, Jimmy hung his shotgun out the window, took aim missed once, hitting the shitter fired again, and severed Leo's spine. Leo fell, rolled, and came to a stop in the grass. And some chicken feed. Stale chicken feed with four days mold. ( a beat ) Electromagnetic printing.
CROW HORSE: Was-te. 'Cept for one thing. Jimmy Looks Twice was nowhere near there. Ya see, when Jimmy was twelve years old, his mother and father was killed in a car wreck right down there near Elk Mountain.
RAY: I don't see the connection.
CROW HORSE: The connection is, it did a head number on him. He's petrified of cars. Won't drive. I've known him all my life, and he's never gotten behind the wheel of a vehicle. He rides passenger and he rides horses, and that's it. The man that shot Leo down was behind the wheel of a moving
RAY: That's not solid.
CROW HORSE: You want solid? That one, single, print he left in the Badlands the one the FBI missed and then stepped all over it belongs to a man who walks heels first. Like a white man. Jimmy has a serious Ind'n walk ball of the foot first. The man who murdered Leo walked like a Wasi'cu.
RAY: You're saying a white guy did it.
CROW HORSE: When Leo was dumped out there in the Badlands, he was dropped on his back. Our man made an effort to turn him over, onto his face. It's an old Ind'n belief that if a dead man is turned face down, his spirit won't leave. And in the killer's case, it won't come back and jump all over his shit. That's an Ind'n thing a white man wouldn't know.
CROW HORSE: And that's the way it is. Write it
CROW HORSE: You laugh all you want, Breed. Sunset tonight, I get my man.
RAY: Alright, Crow Horse. I'm listening. I'm listening to the trees, to the stones. Who is it? Damned if I know.
CROW HORSE: Damned if I know.
CROW HORSE: But the Old One. He did a Yuwipi ceremony last night. The old man? He's gonna tell you who killed Leo?
RAY: The old man? He's gonna tell you who killed Leo?
CROW HORSE: Go catch Jimmy, Ray. Really. He's gettin' away. Go ahead, go get him. I'm late.
RAY: Hey. Hey, those are my sunglasses you're wearing.
CROW HORSE: Grandpa traded with me.
CROW HORSE: He says, back behind Red Deer Table, where the Elk-People-used-to-live. there are strange creatures from another world who eat stones. and who will kill anyone who crosses into this place.
CROW HORSE: He says, in the Yuwipi ceremony last night, he saw you. going back into the land beyond Red Deer Table. I was with you. But that was all the Spirits let him see so he doesn't know if you were killed or not. But he thinks you probably were.
CROW HORSE: Go to the land where the Elk-People- used-to-live and you will find the answers you came here looking for. But you must go as two. That is the vision. I have spoken. And this is
CROW HORSE: He wants to trade. He likes your watch.
RAY: I can't do that, It's a Rolex.
CROW HORSE: A what?
RAY: I'm sorry, this is this is very, very expensive. Tell him this is an expensive watch.
CROW HORSE: He says, you need to go on Indian time. He says your watch is ruining your life anyway.
CROW HORSE: Red Deer Table, Ray.
RAY: Don't tell me: heavy duty.
CROW HORSE: Heavy, heavy duty. Taku Wakan. Wanagi Spirits. It's one of those few places we'd never go to as kids. Still don't. Some of the old people say Crazy Horse is buried back there. We have to go Ray. Together. Like his vision.
RAY: Walter. When I fill out my 302, do I say that evil spirits are killing everybody on the reservation?
CROW HORSE: no. No offense to the old man. I appreciate you trying to help. But I put my ass on the line coming out here, man.
RAY: no. No offense to the old man. I appreciate you trying to help. But I put my ass on the line coming out here, man.
CROW HORSE: What'd you expect to hear?
RAY: Not Native American myths and legends. I'm with the FBI, Walter, remember? Not National Geographic.
CROW HORSE: What you call myths, we call our It's not real.
RAY: It's not real.
CROW HORSE: What's real to you? Wall Street? Capital Hill? Now they are myths.
RAY: I can't be dicking around here. That's all I'm saying. I don't carry crystals, I don't wanna come back in another life. I just wanna do my job, and do it right, and get the fuck outta here.
CROW HORSE: You ain't no Indian. You're a Sal Mineo Indian. Knock it off!
GRANDPA: Will ya knock it off? You're actin' like a couple of old women.
GRANDPA: For cryin' out loud. Knock it off.
RAY: He speaks English.
CROW HORSE: Only when he's really pissed off.
GRANDPA: Come inside. Watch TV.
CROW HORSE: Don't accuse nothin' of not bein' real, Little Weasel. Cuz the only thing around here that ain't real is
RAY: Take care of yourself, Walter.
CROW HORSE: Ray checks the time on his watch then guns away. Crow Horse stands there, watching him go. Eventually he shuffles back toward the trailer.
SA SHERMAN: We've gotten word that Jimmy has been trying to hook up with Maggie Eagle Bear. but some of the Warriors have been sending word to Jimmy that she may be an FBI operative. So he doesn't know where to go.
COOCH: Bingo. It's working.
SHERMAN: He's out of room. All the reservation exits have been watchdogged. We got him. I give it twelve hours.
RAY: Well we better use those twelve hours to apprehend the right man.
COOCH: The right man? Talk to me, Ray.
RAY: Whoever dusted Leo, dusted him from the driver's seat of a moving car then drove those eight miles to the Badlands. Jimmy Looks Twice has never been behind the wheel of a car. It's a known fact out here that he's petrified of driving. His parents were killed in a car wreck.
SHERMAN: That's not very solid.
RAY: There was also a print found in the Badlands that indicated diagetic locomotion. Heels first. Jimmy's walking pattern doesn't match. He has a distinct Indian walk.
SA MILES: Indian walk? You been smoking hooch in the peace pipe, Ray?
RAY: They don't smoke hooch in The Pipe, Miles. They smoke something called kinickinick, it's like a tobacco.
SA SHERMAN: Well, you're right about X21 being a Washington Redskin, that's for sure. What else, Ray?
COOCH: You boys want a soda?
SA MILES: Oh, yeah, a Coke. You buying?
COOCH: No, Ray's buying. Sherman? Coke?
SHERMAN: Oh. no. No, Cooch, I'm working on a coffee here. Indian walk?
COOCH: Genetic ditto on evidence found at the site with evidence you found in his belongings. An incontrovertible motive. And definite footprints on Jimmy Looks Twice at Maisy Blue Legs When did we get that?
RAY: When did we get that?
COOCH: Today. And now you there's a dog in the van
RAY: I know. I fed it, and I can't get rid of
COOCH: You weren't sent here to go off on your own detail, Ray. You were sent here to assist in a Selective Operations Unit. These regional agents are inept that's why they were sent out here to The Graveyard, to Indian Country. I need you behind me, Ray. Not pulling against me.
RAY: I'm not trying to pull against you, Cooch. I've just been having nightmares about the way Leo was Your first homicide, that's gonna happen, Ray.
COOCH: Your first homicide, that's gonna happen, Ray.
RAY: I just wanna make sure no one else gets done in that way because we were in bed with the wrong doer.
COOCH: Ray. I never get into bed with somebody unless I know for sure. Just the way I was raised.
RAY: Alright. Alright.
COOCH: ( lightly ) Yeah, alright, alright fuck you give a yuppie a badge and he wants to take over the world. Go get a tail on Eagle Bear, and stay with her. Cuz Jimmy's gonna show. And I want you to make the collar.
COOCH: He turns. Cooch looks at him for a time. It is a warm look.
COOCH: I'll sleep around a little.
RAY: Thanks, Cooch.
COOCH: And get rid of the dog.
RAY: ( whispering )
COOCH: All I could think of was. not here. I don't wanna eat it on an Indian Reservation, three thousand miles from home.
RAY: All I could think of was. not here. I don't wanna eat it on an Indian Reservation, three thousand miles from home.
COOCH: He's out there. He's out there playing Sitting Bull with us. I want the motherfucker so bad I'm getting a bleeding ulcer.
RAY: It may have been Maggie's way of saying "get off my ass."
COOCH: She's that subtle?
RAY: Eagle's claws and a bear's balls that's what her profile says.
COOCH: Well, she's running now, too. These fucking people like to run, don't
RAY: Cooch. Woh. Stop.
COOCH: Tread matches. It's the car.
RAY: Excited, Ray walks off, scanning the area.
COOCH: But this doesn't make any sense, Ray. If it's just been sitting in this dry wash for seven days. why the hell didn't we find it?
RAY: Because this isn't a dry wash.
RAY: It's the Little Walking River.
RAY: And it was full of water when I drove by here three days ago. Full. I mean. a river.
COOCH: The Little Walking River. You're right. This is part of it. So whoever sunk this car didn't compensate for drought. Goddamn.
RAY: Listen to the water.
CROW HORSE: Agent Little Weasel, Federal Bura of your Imagination.
RAY: Jesus Christ. You're hammered. What are you doing?
CROW HORSE: You're right about the old man. His power's long dried up. He's supposed to be a medicine man but he won't go see the people. He says we changed, and we don't listen. Well, he don't go out and talk no more. I haven't had a drink in three years but I just turned my sobriety chip into that man behind the bar, and this Hoss is gettin' watered.
RAY: Cut the shit. You shouldn't be in here, Man.
CROW HORSE: Cuz I'm a skin?
RAY: Cuz you're a cop.
CROW HORSE: Not no more.
RAY: What are you talking about?
CROW HORSE: You tell me. You tell me who went to the B.I.A. Bureau of Indian Annihilation and said I was messin' with your case, man. I don't give a goddamn about your case.
RAY: And I don't give a goddamn about whether you wear a badge or not, Crow Horse, but I didn't cut you.
CROW HORSE: Still after Jimmy?
RAY: They found prints at Blue Legs' place.
CROW HORSE: Yeah. Jimmy's prints are there. But they cross over Benjamin Black Star's prints. And he wasn't there until six o'clock the mornin' after to get eggs from the chickens. So Jimmy wasn't there til the next day. Follow?
CROW HORSE: Look, man. you better bust Jimmy and get out before somebody shoots up more than your car next time.
RAY: Next time I'll be ready. You get the word to who ever it is.
CROW HORSE: I can't, Hoss. I don't talk to FBI's.
CROW HORSE: You think you was sent here cuz you're a good cop?
RAY: No. I was sent here cuz I'm Indian. And a good cop.
CROW HORSE: You ever think that maybe you was sent here cuz the FBI's need one good reason to take out the entire Warrior Movement. And what better reason than one of their men, gettin' blown away on the res. A low-rent, expendable public servant sent in to take a bullet for his country.
RAY: I'm sick of your shit
CROW HORSE: Sorry, we don't speak United States.
RANCHER'S SON: Yeah, well I do. Get the Jesus up, and get the Jesus out or I'm gonna go out to my truck and come back with my hardware.
RAY: Woh, hold on there, Jack, you're
RANCHER'S SON: don't "jack" me, Squanto. I'll bury your lazy ass right here.
RANCHER'S SON: I'm talkin' to
BROOKS: No! No, you butt holes! He ain't skin! He AIN'T SKIN!
CROW HORSE: Yeah he's In'dn. Miniconjou Sioux.
RANCHER'S SON: You ain't Indian?
OLDER RANCHER: What's so damn funny?
CROW HORSE: Well, it's just that the cavalry used to always threaten the Lakota. The cavalry ain't around anymore. The Lakota still are.
RANCHER'S SON: I got no trouble tellin' where you come from, Fat Red.
BAR MAN: Sorry. On the house.
RAY: No plates. No registration. Serial numbers removed. And all prints washed off by the river. That's great. This is turning out to be a walk in the park, do you know that?
RADIO: ( woman agent ) Come back?
RAY: Never mind.
RADIO: Ray. X22.
RAY: I read, Cooch.
RADIO: Remember that upside down flag back at Jimmy's house? Somebody took it They took it down, set fire to it, and threw it on the doorstep of room 13 at the Buffalo Butte Motel. Your
RAY: They took it down, set fire to it, and threw it on the doorstep of room 13 at the Buffalo Butte Motel. Your
RADIO: They took it down, set fire to it, and threw it on the doorstep of room 13 at the Buffalo Butte Motel. Your
RADIO: We traced the number of the truck that dumped it, and it belongs to one Maggie Sanders, also known as Maggie Eagle Bear. She's been all over the res, riling up the traditionals, telling them not to break, and to keep Jimmy in hiding. She's a problem now. And she's yours. Get her off the reservation.
LITTLE GIRL: Are they all right under here?
MAGGIE: Two-hundred and sixty-seven men, women, old people. And little ones like you. Many killed running along that road you see there.
LITTLE BOY: Where were they runnin' to?
MAGGIE: A place called The Stronghold. They died for a dream. But you live. You are their great-great grandchildren and you live. We have to honor their dream. Of protecting the Mother Earth. And being proud of being Indian.
LITTLE BOY: My mother told me that they call us Indians cuz Columbus was lookin' for India when he discovered our country.
MAGGIE: Yeah, well, let me tell you something, Henry: just be glad he wasn't looking for Turkey.
MAGGIE: Richard. Sing the Honoring Song with them. I'll be right back.
MAGGIE: We're praying at the grave. Do you wanna join us?
RAY: No, Maggie. But you're gonna have to join me for a ride. I'm taking you to Rapid City.
MAGGIE: So much power. I see it in your eyes. This. hunger for power. Or for what you think is power.
RAY: You burned an American flag today. And left it for me.
MAGGIE: You desecrated it, it had to be I desecrated it?
RAY: I desecrated it?
MAGGIE: You forced an innocent man to run like an animal. You've tried to poison my people's hearts against me with your manipulation, with letters I never wrote. you've been watching me eat, work, raise my family. wash myself in the river. And now you're here, arresting me at a sacred In your eyes, that's power.
MAGGIE: So I plant this tree for you. And I take all this stuff that you've laid on me and my people, and I put it in this hole with this pine cone. And I bury it. Cuz ya know what it is, Ray? Bullshit. And shit is And The Mother will turn your lies into something that lives. That's what power is, in the Indian Take me to Rapid, Ray. I'm the enemy.
MAGGIE: That's what power is, in the Indian Take me to Rapid, Ray. I'm the enemy.
RAY: If I told you. that I think Jimmy's innocent. but I'm in over my head. would you believe me?
MAGGIE: See those Black Hills out there, Ray? When the people lost the land in 1868, the government took everything but those hills. They allowed us to keep those Black Hills, to live there. Signed a treaty. Until they found gold. Then they told us we had to leave because of National interest. They broke that treaty. Anyone who fought or spoke out against it, wound up dead or in jail. And the people wound up here. On a
MAGGIE: While up there, in the Black Hills. they carved the faces of four Your relatives must've taught you My father never told anybody he had Indian blood. But he still used a few Indian words around the house. He called me Washee. Said it meant. good boy.
MAGGIE: Your relatives must've taught you My father never told anybody he had Indian blood. But he still used a few Indian words around the house. He called me Washee. Said it meant. good boy.
RAY: ( after thought ) My father never told anybody he had Indian blood. But he still used a few Indian words around the house. He called me Washee. Said it meant. good boy.
RAY: Wa-shee is like. a dumpling. Like tallow we put in stew. I think he was calling you chubby boy.
MAGGIE: Wa-shee is like. a dumpling. Like tallow we put in stew. I think he was calling you chubby boy.
RAY: Maggie is laughing as she looks back at the children who are no longer singing. Ray reaches inside his jacket and takes out five polaroids. He shuffles them as he ponders. He hands one to Maggie who has caught herself opening up too much to the Wasi'cu.
RAY: You ever see that car before?
RAY: Who's it belong to?
RAY: Help me, Maggie.
RAY: I didn't see you today, Maggie.
MAGGIE: Goodbye. Wa-shee.
RAY: Anyone who fought or spoke out against it. wound up dead or in jail.
RAY: ( to himself, flustered ) That was 1868, Maggie.
COOCH: Jesus, you alright?
RAY: Yeah. I. I fell asleep. I can't believe it. I
COOCH: Never turn your radio off! I thought I was gonna find you scalped! Damn Sorry, Cooch. I lost Eagle Bear
RAY: Sorry, Cooch. I lost Eagle Bear
COOCH: never mind Eagle Bear. We've got Jimmy nailed. Let's go!
COOCH: HANDS ON YOUR HEAD!
SHERMAN: Where is he, Sam? Where's Jimmy?
SHERMAN: He's a medicine man, Ray. The "spiritual leader" of the Warriors. That right, Sam?
COOCH: Trailer's clean, let's go.
SHERMAN: You been the one making it rain like that, out there, Sam?
RAY: Hey, put that down.
SHERMAN: Can you make Jimmy outrun an M-16,
RAY: Sherman drops the turtleshell rattle on the linoleum floor. Then drives his heel into it, CRUSHING the fragile Ray grabs him and slams him into the tin wall. Miles gets between them, grabbing Sherman.
MILES: EASY, MEN! HEY! HE'S ON THE ROOF! HE'S ON THE FUCKING ROOF! COME ON GUYS, COME ON, GUYS!
RADIO: HE'S ON THE ROOF! HE'S ON THE FUCKING ROOF! COME ON GUYS, COME ON, GUYS!
LOOKS TWICE: Brother, the old man told me about you. Listen to me: what was Leo trying to tell me? He wanted to meet me at
FED: Save your speeches for prison, Jimmy.
COOCH: Damn. That's one hard running Indian.
COOCH: It's over, Ray. I aged five years. But it's over. At least I'm gonna look like I'm ready for the advisory desk. Let's go get a beer.
RAY: Look. I'm not who you think I am. I'm sorry.
GRANDPA: Out back that way. is a placed called Wounded Knee.
GRANDPA: I was one years old there when our people were shot down. My mother hid me in the snow in a blanket. One of those killed was a Holy Man called Wakiyan Cante Thunder Heart. They killed him while he was running for The Stronghold. It is his blood the same blood that spilled on the grass and snow at Wounded Knee that runs through your heart like a
GRANDPA: Thunder Heart has come. Sent here to a troubled place to help his people. That's what I am told. Maybe you're right and I am mistaken. Your mind is young, mine is old. If so, so be it. Ho Hecetu Yelo. I'll speak no
COOCH: Buffalo burgers and cold beer, Raymond. Don't worry about the sign out front. you don't have to be Indian anymore.
COOCH: You have a fever. You okay?
COOCH: Listen: when we get back tomorrow, you're gonna find Tully laying a promotion on you. S.A.C. He wants to prove that his yuppie agents are making good. He's offering you New York. Tell him you want Atlanta.
RAY: Cuz I want New York.
COOCH: Cuz I want New York.
RAY: Cooch. They sent us out here because the place was being neglected. Now, all of a sudden, there's two five man SWAT teams out there tonight. Bell Huey choppers flying all over the place. Federal occupation to catch one guy. Why, Cooch? What's going on?
COOCH: National security, Ray. Get some sleep. Tomorrow, we fly.
RAY: I'm looking for Richard Yellow Bird.
YELLOW BIRD: The Washington Redskin. Thought you'd be gone by now.
YELLOW BIRD: What ya want?
RAY: Must be a bitch getting around in that wheelchair. How long you been in it?
YELLOW BIRD: Since I got a iron pipe put across my knees, man. Fight with three wasi'cus, ya know.
RAY: At Sioux Falls Pen?
YELLOW BIRD: No, that was Leavenworth. This was Sioux Falls. What ya want?
RAY: Leavenworth a tough joint?
YELLOW BIRD: You ever try solitary confinement?
RAY: No. Can't say that I have, Richard. Richard do you know why I'm here?
YELLOW BIRD: Washington sent ya. I know that.
RAY: Yes, Washington sent me, Richard. They sent me here because this whole thing has been fucked. Do you know what I mean when I say this whole thing has been fucked, Richard?
RAY: An arrangement was made between you. and us. Do you remember that
YELLOW BIRD: I'm here, ain't I?
RAY: Not for long, Richard. You got early parole under the stipulation that you would help us in a situation, and you didn't deliver.
YELLOW BIRD: What the fuck you talkin' about?
RAY: Get up out of the chair, Richard.
YELLOW BIRD: What's with you people? Why do ya have to fuck with my head all the time? I came through, man.
RAY: Get up out of the chair, and walk toward the backdoor, Richard.
YELLOW BIRD: ( not moving ) I get thrown in solitary until I don't know my own fuckin' name, and then you people tell me I can beat nine years if I help you. I helped Get up!
RAY: Get up!
YELLOW BIRD: They said I'd never see FBI again, and I'm livin' with you fuckers. I don't feed ya information on the Warriors, it's back to the pen. I don't do this, back to the pen. Your word against my word. Against a con Indian's word. I really got a chance, man, right?
RAY: They sent me here, Richard because they said you didn't hold up your end of the arrangement, and I have to transport you back to Leavenworth.
YELLOW BIRD: ( crying ) What the fuck, man? What do you people want? I did what you wasi'cu's told me to do.
RAY: Leo Fast Elk. is alive.
YELLOW BIRD: No way. No fuckin' way.
RAY: How the hell do you know?
YELLOW BIRD: I blew his back out with a buffalo gun, that's how I know! Now you're gonna say I didn't, so you can throw me back in solitary?
RAY: The men who came to see you at Leavenworth. The one's who made the arrangement. who were they? Maybe I can talk to them.
YELLOW BIRD: Miles. Three other suits. That's all I know 'em as suits. Were you You turned Leo over on his face. But the coyotes must've turned him back over, man, cuz his spirit is out. It's out, and it knows.
RAY: You turned Leo over on his face. But the coyotes must've turned him back over, man, cuz his spirit is out. It's out, and it knows.
YELLOW BIRD: What do you know about spirits? You ain't no In'dn.
RAY: Leo knew something heavy and was trying to tell Jimmy. But you must not know how serious it was or you would have delivered. Do you realize what Leo could have told Jimmy?! Do I took him out before he got the chance. He didn't say nothin' about Tashka Sha. And now his spirit is in the dirt. Forever.
YELLOW BIRD: I took him out before he got the chance. He didn't say nothin' about Tashka Sha. And now his spirit is in the dirt. Forever.
RAY: What's Tashka Sha, speak English, speak English!
YELLOW BIRD: Red Deer Table! What's with you,
YELLOW BIRD: Wait a minute. Wait what are you doin'? You ain't a FBI. You ain't the law. Let me see your
RAY: I'm the fucking law!
RAY: Keep talking, Yellow Bird.
YELLOW BIRD: All I know. is I did what I did. and I ain't in solitary, gettin' pumped up with downer, gettin' beat to shit. But I tell you what, Suit. Take me back. Cuz I can't take this shit no more.
YELLOW BIRD: Man, I don't know who the fuck I am no more.
RAY: You and me both.
PRETTY HAWK: BLUE AMERICAN SHERMAN HORN CLOUD With frantic abandon, Ray is ripping weeds away. He drops to his knees, clearing weeds.
BLUE AMERICAN: SHERMAN HORN CLOUD With frantic abandon, Ray is ripping weeds away. He drops to his knees, clearing weeds.
STRONG FOX: THUNDER HEART MOVING DOWN and then suddenly back up to the name:
THUNDER HEART: MOVING DOWN and then suddenly back up to the name:
THUNDER HEART: REVERSE ON - RAY kneeling in the weeds, the wind getting restless around him, screaming the way plains winds do but only these winds are filled with a whistling. What sounds like EAGLE BONE WHISTLES, piping shrill. Ray kneels before the marker, staring at the name on the stone, his hair thrown around by the wind that drives across the grass, whistling eagles, building to an unbearable, pitch. Ray stares at the name as if he is looking through a small hole into another world. A world that frightens him. He gets up and backs away from the stone, through the gate. And gets back in his car, quickly. He takes off.
RAY: He keeps knocking. Nothing. He hurries back down the steps, starts around the back of the house and something attacks him, leaps at him from the dark, knocking him off his feet, into the grass. Hits him again. But as quickly as he falls, he rolls, throwing up his hands and blocking a savage kick aimed for his face. He traps the boot, twists it and drops the attacker onto his back. In a matter of seconds, he is on top of the man, sticking his gun in his throat. He grabs a flashlight from his jacket and shines it in the man's face. Crow Horse. Breathing like a wild animal.
CROW HORSE: Five-hundred year old turtleshell Crow Horse, listen
RAY: Crow Horse, listen
CROW HORSE: Where's Maggie? Where'd ya take her.
RAY: Nowhere. I'm trying to find her.
CROW HORSE: You got Jimmy. Let her go.
RAY: Crow Horse, listen. You have to come with me.
CROW HORSE: Why? So you can get rid of me, too?
RAY: No. So we can do what the old man said. Red Deer Table, Walter. We have to go.
CROW HORSE: Maybe the old man's visions are still
RAY: Do they come in dreams, these visions?
CROW HORSE: Oh yeah. Dreams. Sometimes durin' sickness. Vision quest. Sweat Lodge. Ya never know when.
RAY: Just before we caught Jimmy. I had a dream that I was being chased. And I was running with other people. Old- fashion Indian people. I got shot in the back. Like Leo.
CROW HORSE: Where was this?
RAY: At Wounded Knee. I mean, that's where I was, and that's where the dream was. Why?
CROW HORSE: You were running with the old ones. At The Knee. Heavy duty.
RAY: Well, it was just a dream, I
CROW HORSE: Sonuvabuck! What's with you, Man? Who are you?
RAY: What do you mean?
CROW HORSE: Nothin'. Forget it.
CROW HORSE: You had a vision. You had yourself a vision. A man waits a long time for a vision. Might go his whole lifetime and never get one. And along comes some instant Indian with a Mastercard and brand-new shoes, has himself a I'm a full-blood Oglala.
RAY: CROW HORSE
CROW HORSE: I'm a full-blood Oglala.
RAY: We've driven a long way. Where is this place?
CROW HORSE: Maybe it was just a dream. Ya know, just one of them, what do ya call 'em, fitful dreams?
RAY: Yeah. Fitful dreams.
CROW HORSE: Bullshit. You had a vision. You got sign from the old ones.
RAY: What the hell do you want me to do?!
CROW HORSE: Ray brakes. Crow Horse is looking past him. Ray turns. The spectacular mesa that we have admired with every sunrise, looms massive now that we are under it. Moonlight falls on it. And the HEARTBEAT DRUM pulses from it.
RAY: What's that?
CROW HORSE: Ain't prayer flags, that's for sure.
RAY: Jesus. Oil?
CROW HORSE: Uranium. Test holes. Somebody came in from the Nebraska side, and did some shotgun testin'. They're gettin' ready to suck this baby dry.
RAY: CROW HORSE
CROW HORSE: That's what we're doing here. National interest. National security. Only this time it's not gold. It's uranium.
RAY: That's what we're doing here. National interest. National security. Only this time it's not gold. It's uranium.
CROW HORSE: We're standin' on broken treaty ground, Ray. This ain't supposed to be here. It'll poison the water.
RAY: Leo knew about it. Tried to tell Jimmy, get the Warriors involved.
CROW HORSE: So they took care of Leo.
RAY: Listen to the water. the river keeps goin' down then rising again.
CROW HORSE: They're drainin' our water table. That's our life, man.
A BODY: lies there, face down. Denim jacket and a shock of black hair, thrown into tangles and dirt. It was buried. Until the coyote caught wind. Crow Horse bends down, touches the jacket. turns the body over And almost vomits when he sees Maggie Eagle Bear.
RAY: looks down in disbelief.
RAY: No. No.
RAY: This Clear Moon's house?
CROW HORSE: Yeah. It's time to beat the drum. You better wait here. He don't trust the white man.
CROW HORSE: Alright. Shit's comin' down. He's callin' council fire. All the old chiefs and the warriors, too. I gotta be at Grandpa's place in two hours. We need to get the tribe together. We need to block this thing.
RAY: What we need. is Richard Yellow
CROW HORSE: I thought it was a rare case of a brother getting a break in the courts. We did an honorin' song for him and He's looking at a few hundred years in Leavenworth. He's not gonna come out without a fight.
RAY: He's looking at a few hundred years in Leavenworth. He's not gonna come out without a fight.
RADIO: X21. Read. X21.
RAY: X21. Come back.
RADIO: Ray. What's your 20?
RAY: A long, unnerving pause. No response from the other side.
RADIO: What are you doing on the reservation?
RAY: I'm on my way back in. Over.
CROW HORSE: Ray. Ray, don't let go now, Man. You go to the council fire. I'm going back in.
RAY: You go to the council fire. I'm going back in.
CROW HORSE: Ray swings in behind the wheel, starts the car, and barrels off recklessly down the rutted road, leaving Crow Horse The Le Baron is already out to where sight reaches farther than sound and silent white dust mushrooms skyward.
CROW HORSE: The Le Baron is already out to where sight reaches farther than sound and silent white dust mushrooms skyward.
COOCH: ( extra casual ) Couldn't sleep, Ray?
RAY: Cooch crosses the room, and picks up Ray's jeans which look like they went through a sandlot tackle match in a mud hole. Ray tucks his clean shirt in; watching Cooch.
RAY: I had to finish something with Crow
COOCH: That's where you were. You had to go back and have it out with the Indian
COOCH: You fucking hot head, we can get in trouble for that.
RAY: Why didn't you tell me what we were doing here?
RAY: We're running a cover-up and you You ever put your hands on me again and you'll be doing the books for a baitshop in the fucking Everglades, You didn't tell me about Red Deer
COOCH: You ever put your hands on me again and you'll be doing the books for a baitshop in the fucking Everglades, You didn't tell me about Red Deer
RAY: You didn't tell me about Red Deer
COOCH: what the hell is Red Deer Table?
RAY: What is it? It's genocide, that's what it is. It's a Pay Zone for some U.S. corporation and a Dead Zone for the people here. Uranium, Cooch.
COOCH: Jesus Christ. What are you doing? What the hell were you doing out
COOCH: This was a Selective Operations Unit, Agent Levoi. There is classified information pertaining to our national security. You don't question that, you don't go digging into that shit that's insubordination. Jesus Christ
RAY: if they mine uranium there, these people will have no place left to We were sworn in on the Constitution to protect federal matters, Ray. I don't know about uranium, I don't know about Red Dog Table all I know is we did our job. It's over.
COOCH: We were sworn in on the Constitution to protect federal matters, Ray. I don't know about uranium, I don't know about Red Dog Table all I know is we did our job. It's over.
RAY: We neutralized anybody with a voice. Leo, Jimmy. Eagle Bear. Anyone who was standing in the way of the land. Is that it?
COOCH: No. We neutralized enemies of the United States. Anti-American radicals who have killed federal officers out
COOCH: Jesus, Ray. You think I don't like the Indians? Not true. These were noble people but their day is gone. They're a conquered nation. They want all of America back but they can't even keep the garbage out of their own front yards. It's sad, Ray. But it's just the way it is. We have to function as a colonial police force out here.
MILES: You gentlemen ready hi, Ray.
COOCH: Yeah, we're ready.
CLEAR MOON: Ah, there you are. The Sioux.
CLEAR MOON: You got the troublemakers off our land. Good, Was-te.
COOCH: Sherman appears beside Cooch aiming a questioning look. When Cooch quickly gets back behind the wheel, Sherman pulls his radio up and starts yelling into it. Cooch reaches out the window and grabs his radio arm.
RAY!: Sherman appears beside Cooch aiming a questioning look. When Cooch quickly gets back behind the wheel, Sherman pulls his radio up and starts yelling into it. Cooch reaches out the window and grabs his radio arm.
COOCH: No, damn it. You call teams in and this is gonna be a fucking media event. Get me three cars, six agents, block all reservation exits. It's under control.
THE BADLANDS: where it does a violent triple flip, throwing Crow Horse then smashing into a tent shaped dune.
A RIFLE: sticks out from a window and punches the Badlands with THREE
RAY: Crow Horse!
CROW HORSE: lies on his back in the Badlands, eyes open, fixed unmoving on the sky. Ray comes out of the flame-waves, running with his .45 held high. He throws himself to his knees beside the injured Indian.
RAY: Crow Horse!
CROW HORSE: Ain't no Council Fire, Brother. Clear I know. Come on. We gotta get off the reservation or we're dead.
RAY: I know. Come on. We gotta get off the reservation or we're dead.
CROW HORSE: Hoka Hey. It's a good day to die.
RAY: Bullshit, let's get outta here,
CROW HORSE: EXT. RESERVATION ROAD Cooch's car speeds down the stretch. Followed by Sherman's. The FBI van. All at one-hundred and five. Gravel and dirt INT. LE BARON - TRAVELING With Crow Horse half-passed out in the passenger seat, Ray keeps the wheel steady. And then his RADIO STATICS.
RADIO: X21, please read. Ray. Ray. X21, please read. This is Cooch. Please come in, Ray. Where are you?
RAY: He's gone.
CROW HORSE: He hasn't left this place in twenty years. They got him.
COOCH: ( into radio ) X21. Ray. Ray, please come in.
MILES: We have a renegade agent, Cooch? He gets off the reservation.
COOCH: he's not getting off the
CROW HORSE: They got us sealed. What are we gonna We're going for The Stronghold.
RAY: We're going for The Stronghold.
RADIO: ( Cooch ) Ray. Can you hear me? You are fucked. There's no way out of this. If you won't listen to your own laws, then listen to this: ( static: a new voice ) This is President Clear Moon. This nation does not want your sympathy. You cannot use this reservation as a sanctuary. Stop where you are now.
RADIO: ( Cooch ) Whatever you are trying to do is futile, Raymond. You have nothing. Yellow bird. is gonna sing.
RAY: Yellow bird. is gonna sing.
RADIO: ( Cooch ) Yellow Bird committed suicide at three o'clock this morning. Some gung-ho agent from D.C. pushed him into a corner. You're playing a losing game. Pull over.
RECORDER: ( Ray ) How the hell do you know? ( Yellow Bird ) I blew his back out with a buffalo gun, that's how I know. And now you're gonna say I didn't and put me back in solitary?!
RADIO: ( Yellow Bird ) You people tol' me I could beat nine years if I helped you. I helped you! ( rewinding ) I could beat nine years if I helped you. I helped you!
RAY: ( into mic ) Fuck you.
RAY: Crow Horse turns, sees what Ray is looking at. POV: The Stronghold a narrow opening in hulking rock formations. Large enough for a car to get in, and keep followers out.
CROW HORSE: That's it. The Stronghold. Get us in there, we got a chance.
RAY: We're in there. We're in there
COOCH: ( via bullhorn )
FREEZE! NOW!: The sound of FIFTEEN PRIMING FIREARMS stops Ray and Crow Horse in their tracks. Just twenty feet from The Stronghold. Crow Horse, windless, stumbles to a knee. Ray turns slowly, facing the small army.
COOCH: DROP IT.
COOCH: Crow Horse, get your face in the dirt. Ray. come forward. Let it go. Let's just let it go.
RAY: No way, Cooch.
COOCH: sweating, tries to keep control. All around him, hands are on guns. Cooch is walking toward Ray.
COOCH: Ray. I'm coming to talk to you. I'm gonna walk you out of here. And we're gonna get the hell outta this place.
SHERMAN: looks up from his rifle, bewildered. Then alarmed.
DOWN BELOW: Clear Moon's mouth is as dry as Badlands soil. Cooch is panicking, his eyes running along the high edge.
RAY: stands equally astonished, assessing the back-up.
CROW HORSE: lifts himself, stands, taking in the sight.
DOWN BELOW: Ray looks up at the old man, then turns to face Cooch.
RAY: You're right, Cooch. It's over.
CHASING HAWK: All the exits are blocked. There's two more fed cars tryin' to get in. And some press.
COOCH: Let the press through.
RAY: Let the press through.
CROW HORSE: The people are already talkin' about their vote for a new tribal prez. They wanna vote for Jimmy. What about the water.
RAY: What about the water.
CROW HORSE: You bought her some time, Kola. Ain't never gonna be over. but you bought her some time.
RAY: Some Indian time?
CROW HORSE: Indian time. Where ya gonna go, Ray?
CROW HORSE: ( concerned ) Where ya gonna go, Ray?
RAY: I'll have to see what the visions say about that one.
CROW HORSE: You didn't have another vision.
CROW HORSE: Yeah, right here.
RAY: You take care.
CROW HORSE: If you ever need a place to come back to and listen to the trees a little. we'll be here.
CROW HORSE: Ain't no word in Sioux for goodbye.
THE END: Writers : John Fusco
