1 BLACKNESS: Then two faint lights appear, close together. growing brighter. They resolve into two DEEP SUBMERSIBLES, free-falling toward us like express One is ahead of the other, and passes close enough to FILL FRAME, looking like a spacecraft blazing with lights, bristling with insectile TILTING DOWN to follow it as it descends away into the limitless blackness below. Soon they are fireflies, then stars. Then gone.
ANATOLY: ( heavy Russian accent )
BODINE: Come left a little. She's right in front of us, eighteen meters. Fifteen. Thirteen. you should see it.
ANATOLY: Do you see it? I don't see it. there! Out of the darkness, like a ghostly apparition, the bow of the ship appears. Its knife-edge prow is coming straight at us, seeming to plow the bottom sediment like ocean waves. It towers above the seafloor, standing just as it landed 84 years ago. THE TITANIC. Or what is left of her. Mir One goes up and over the bow railing, intact except for an overgrowth of "rusticles" draping it like mutated Spanish moss. TIGHT ON THE EYEPIECE MONITOR of a video camcorder. Brock Lovett's face fills the BLACK AND WHITE FRAME.
LOVETT: It still gets me every time. The image pans to the front viewport, looking over Anatoly's shoulder, to the bow railing visible in the lights beyond. Anatoly turns.
ANATOLY: Is just your guilt because of estealing from the dead. CUT WIDER, to show that Brock is operating the camera himself, turning it in his hand so it points at his own face.
LOVETT: Thanks, Tolya. Work with me, here. Brock resumes his serious, pensive gaze out the front port, with the camera aimed at himself at arm's length.
LOVETT: It still gets me every time. to see the sad ruin of the great ship sitting here, where she landed at 2:30 in the morning, April 15, 1912, after her long fall from the world above. Anatoly rolls his eyes and mutters in Russian. Bodine chuckles and watches the sonar.
BODINE: You are so full of shit, boss. 7 Mir Two drives aft down the starboard side, past the huge anchor while Mir One passes over the seemingly endless forecastle deck, with its massive anchor chains still laid out in two neat rows, its bronze windlass caps gleaming. The 22 foot long subs are like white bugs next to the enormous Dive nine. Here we are again on the deck of Titanic. two and a half miles down. The pressure is three tons per square inch, enough to crush us like a freight train going over an ant if our hull fails. These windows are nine inches thick and if they go, it's sayonara in two microseconds. 8 Mir Two lands on the boat deck, next to the ruins of the Officer's Quarters. Mir One lands on the roof of the deck hous nearby.
LOVETT: Right. Let's go to work. Bodine slips on a pair of 3-D electronic goggles, and grabs the joystick controls of the ROV. 9 OUTSIDE THE SUB, the ROV, a small orange and black robot called SNOOP DOG, lifts from its cradle and flies forward.
BODINE: I'm in the sitting room. Heading for bedroom B-54.
LOVETT: Stay off the floor. Don't stir it up like you did yesterday.
BODINE: I'm tryin' boss. Glinting in the lights are the brass fixtures of the near-perfectly preserved fireplace. An albino Galathea crab crawls over it. Nearby are the remains of a divan and a writing desk. The Dog crosses the ruins of the once elegant room toward another DOOR. It squeezes through the doorframe, scraping rust and wood chunks loose on both sides. It moves out of a cloud of rust and keeps on going.
BODINE: I'm crossing the bedroom. The remains of a pillared canopy bed. Broken chairs, a dresser. Through the collapsed wall of the bathroom, the porcelain commode and bathtub took almost new, gleaming in the dark.
LOVETT: Okay, I want to see what's under that wardrobe door. SEVERAL ANGLES as the ROV deploys its MANIPULATOR ARMS and starts moving debris aside. A lamp is lifted, its ceramic colors as bright as they were in 1912.
LOVETT: Easy, Lewis. Take it slow. Lewis grips a wardrobe door, lying at an angle in a corner, and pulls it with Snoop's gripper. It moves reluctantly in a cloud of silt. Under it is a dark object. The silt clears and Snoop's cameras show them what was under the door.
BODINE: Ooohh daddy-oh, are you seein' what I'm seein'? CLOSE ON LOVETT, watching his moniteors. By his expression it is like he is seeing the Holy Grail.
LOVETT: Oh baby baby baby. It's payday, boys. ON THE SCREEN, in the glare of the lights, is the object of their quest: a small STEEL COMBINATION SAFE.
BODINE: Who's the best? Say it.
LOVETT: You are, Lewis. You rolling?
CAMERAMAN: Brock nods to his technicians, and they set about drilling the safe's hinges. During this operation, Brock amps the suspense, working the lens to fill the time.
LOVETT: Well, here it is, the moment of truth. Here's where we find out if the time, the sweat, the money spent to charter this ship and these subs, to come out here to the middle of the North Atlantic. were worth it. If what we think is in that same. is in that safe. it will be. Lovett grins wolfishly in anticipation of his greatest find yet. The door is pried loose. It clangs onto the deck. Lovett moves closer, peering into the safe's wet interior. A long moment then. his face says it all.
LOVETT: You know, boss, this happened to Geraldo and his career never recovered.
BODINE: You know, boss, this happened to Geraldo and his career never recovered.
LOVETT: ( to the video cameraman )
LOVETT: You send out what I tell you when I tell you. I'm signing your paychecks, not 60 minutes. Now get set up for the uplink. Buell covers the phone and turns to Lovett.
BUELL: The partners want to know how it's going?
LOVETT: How it's going? It's going like a first date in prison, whattaya think?! Lovett grabs the phone from Buell and goes instantly smooth.
LOVETT: Hi, Dave? Barry? Look, it wasn't in the safe. no, look, don't worry about it, there're still plenty of places it could be. in the floor debris in the suite, in the mother's room, in the purser's safe on C deck. Hang on a second. A tech coaxes some letters in the water tray to one side with a tong. revealing a pencil ( conte crayon ) drawing of a woman. Brock looks closely at the drawing, which is in excellent shape, though its edges have partially disintegrated. The woman is beautiful, and beautifully rendered. In her late teens or early twenties, she is nude, though posed with a kind of casual modesty. She is on an Empire divan, in a pool of light that seems to radiate outward from her eyes. Scrawled in the lower right corner is the date: April 14 1912. And the initials JD. The girl is not entirely nude. At her throat is a diamond necklace with one large stone hanging in the center. Lovett grabs a reference photo from the clutter on the lab table. It is a period black-and-white photo of a diamond necklace on a black velvet jeller's display stand. He holds it next to the drawing. It is clearly the same piece. a complex setting with a massive central stone which is almost heart-shaped.
LOVETT: I'll be God damned.
16 INSERT: A CNN NEWS STORY: a live satellite feed from the deck of the Keldysh, intercut with the CNN studio.
ANNOUNCER: Treasure hunter Brock Lovett is best known for finding Spanish gold in sunken galleons in the Caribbean. Now he is using deep submergence technology to work two and a half miles down at another famous wreck. the Titanic. He is with us live via satellite from a Russian research ship in the middle of the Atlantic. hello Brock?
LOVETT: Yes, hi, Tracy. You know, Titanic is not just A shipwrick, Titanic is THE shipwreck. It's the Mount Everest of shipwrecks.
ROSE: Turn that up please, dear.
LOVETT: Nobody called the recovery of the artifacts from King Tut's tomb grave robbing. I have museum-trained experts here, making sure this stuff is preserved and catalogued properly. Look at this drawing, which was found The video camera pans off Brock to the drawing, in a tray of water. The image of the woman with the necklace FILLS FRAME.
LOVETT: .a piece of paper that's been underwater for 84 years. and my team are able to preserve it intanct. Should this have remained unseen at the bottom of the ocean for eternity, when we can see it and enjoy it now.? ROSE is galvanized by this image. Her mouth hangs open in amazement.
ROSE: I'll be God damned.
BUELL: There's a satellite call for you.
LOVETT: Bobby, we're launching. See these submersibles here, going in the water? Take a message.
BUELL: No, trust me, you want to take this call.
LOVETT: This is Brock Lovett. What can I do for you, Mrs. ?
BUELL: Rose Calvert.
LOVETT: . Mrs. Calvert?
ROSE: I was just wondering if you had found the "Heart of the Ocean" yet, Mr. Brock almost drops the phone. Bobby sees his shocked expression.
BUELL: I told you you wanted to take this call.
LOVETT: ( to Rose )
ROSE: Oh yes. The woman in the picture is me.
BODINE: She's a goddamned liar! A nutcase. Like that. what's her name? That Anastasia babe.
BUELL: They're inbound. Brock nods and the three of them head forward to meet the approaching helo.
BODINE: She says she's Rose DeWitt Bukater, right? Rose DeWitt Bukater died on the Titanic. At the age of 17. If she'd've lived, she'd be over a hundred now.
LOVETT: A hundred and one next month.
BODINE: Okay, so she's a very old goddamned liar. I traced her as far back as the 20's. she was working as an actress in L.A. An actress. Her name was Rose Dawson. Then she married a guy named Calvert, moved to Cedar Rapids, had two kids. Now Calvert's dead, and from what I've heard Cedar Rapids is The Sea Stallion approaches the ship, BG, forcing Brock to yell over the And everyobody who knows about the diamond is supposed to be dead. or on this ship. But she knows about it. And I want to hear what she has to say. Got it?
LOVETT: And everyobody who knows about the diamond is supposed to be dead. or on this ship. But she knows about it. And I want to hear what she has to say. Got it?
BODINE: S'cuse me, I have to go check our supply of Depends.
LOVETT: Is your stateroom alright?
ROSE: Yes. Very nice. Have you met my granddaughter, Lizzy? She takes care of me.
LIZZY: Yes. We met just a few minutes ago, grandma. Remember, up on deck?
ROSE: Oh, yes. Brock glances at Bodine. oh oh. Bodine rolls his eyes. Rose finishes arranging her photographs. We get a general glimpse of them: the usual snapshots. children and grandchildren, her late husband.
ROSE: There, that's nice. I have to have my pictures when I travel. And Freddy of Isn't that right, sweetie.
LOVETT: Would you like anything?
ROSE: I should like to see my drawing.
LOVETT: Louis the Sixteenth wore a fabulous stone, called the Blue Diamond of the Crown, which disappeared in 1792, about the time Louis lost everything from the neck up. The theory goes that the crown diamond was chopped too. recut into a heart-like shape. and it became Le Coeur de la Mer. The Heart of the Ocean. Today it would be worth more than the Hope Diamond.
ROSE: It was a dreadful, heavy thing. I only wore it this once.
LIZZY: You actually believe this is you, grandma?
ROSE: It is me, dear. Wasn't I a hot number?
LOVETT: I tracked it down through insurance records. and old claim that was settled under terms of absolute secrecy. Do you know who the claiment was, Someone named Hockley, I should imagine.
ROSE: Someone named Hockley, I should imagine.
LOVETT: Nathan Hockley, right. Pittsburgh steel tycoon. For a diamond necklace his son Caledon Hockley bought in France for his fiancee. you. a week before he sailed on Titanic. And the claim was filed right after the sinking. So the diamond had to've gone down with the ship. See the date?
LIZZY: April 14, 1912.
LOVETT: If your grandma is who she says she is, she was wearing the diamond the day Titanic sank.
ROSE: I don't want your money, Mr. Lovett. I know how hard it is for people who care greatly for money to give some away.
BODINE: ( skeptical )
ROSE: ( indicating the drawing )
LOVETT: ( crossing the room )
ROSE: This was mine. How extraordinary! It looks the same as the last time I saw She turns the mirror over and looks at her ancient face in the cracked The reflection has changed a bit. She spies something else, a silver and moonstone art-nouveau brooch.
ROSE: The reflection has changed a bit. She spies something else, a silver and moonstone art-nouveau brooch.
ROSE: My mother's brooch. She wanted to go back for it. Caused quite a fuss. Rose picks up an ornate art-nouveau HAIR COMB. A jade butterfly takes flight on the ebony handle of the comb. She turns it slowly, remembering. We can see that Rose is experiencing a rush of images and emotions that have lain dormant for eight decades as she handles the butterfly comb.
LOVETT: Are you ready to go back to Titanic?
BODINE: Live from 12,000 feet. ROSE stares raptly at the screens. She is enthraled by one in particular, an image of the bow railing. It obviously means something to her. Brock is studying her reactions carefully.
BODINE: The bow's struck in the bottom like an axe, from the impact. Here. I can run a simulation we worked up on this monitor over here. Lizzy turns the chair so Rose can see the screen of Bodine's computer. As he is calling up the file, he keeps talking.
BODINE: We've put together the world's largest database on the Titanic. Okay, Rose might not want to see this, Lewis.
LOVETT: Rose might not want to see this, Lewis.
ROSE: No, no. It's fine. I'm curious. Bodine starts a COMPUTER ANIMATED GRAPHIC on the screen, which parallels his rapid-fire narration.
BODINE: She hits the berg on the starboard side and it sort of bumps along. punching holes like a morse code. dit dit dit, down the side. Now she's flooding in the forward compartments. and the water spills over the tops of the bulkheads, going aft. As her bow is going down, her stern is coming up. slow at first. and then faster and faster until it's lifting all that weight, maybe 20 or 30 thousand tons. out of the water and the hull can't deal. so SKRTTT!! . it splits! Right down to the keel, which acts like a big hinge. Now the bow swings down and the stern falls back level. but the weight of the bow pulls the stern up vertical, and then the bow section detaches, heading for the bottom. The stern bobs like a cork, floods and goes under about 2:20 a.m. Two hours and forty minutes after the collision. The animation then follows the bow section as it sinks. Rose watches this clinical dissection of the disaster without emotion.
BODINE: The bow pulls out of its dive and planes away, almost a half a mile, before it hits the bottom going maybe 12 miles an hour. KABOOM! The bow impacts, digging deeply into the bottom, the animation now follows the stern.
BODINE: The stern implodes as it sinks, from the pressure, and rips apart from the force of the current as it falls, landing like a big pile of junk. Cool huh?
ROSE: Thank you for that fine forensic analysis, Mr. Bodine. Of course the experience of it was somewhat less clinical.
LOVETT: Will you share it with us? Her eyes go back to the screens, showing the sad ruins far below them. A VIEW from one of the subs TRACKING SLOWLY over the boat deck. Rose recognizes one of the Wellin davits, still in place. She hears ghostly waltz music. The faint and echoing sound of an officer's voice, English accented, calling "Women and children only". 30 FLASH CUTS of screaming faces in a running crowd. Pandemonium and terror. People crying, praying, kneeling on the deck. Just impressions. flashes in the dark. 31 Rose Looks at another monitor. SNOOP DOG moving down a rusted, debris-filled corridor. Rose watches the endless row of doorways sliding past, like dark mouths. 32 IMAGE OF A CHILD, three years old, standing ankle deep in water in the middle of an endless corridor. The child is lost alone, crying. 33 Rose is shaken by the flood of memories and emotions. Her eyes well up and she puts her head down, sobbing quietly.
LIZZY: ( taking the wheelchair )
ROSE: Her voice is surprisingly strong. The sweet little old lady is gone, replaced by a woman with eyes of steel. Lovett signals everyone to stay Tell us, Rose. She looks from screen to screen, the images of the ruined ship.
LOVETT: Tell us, Rose. She looks from screen to screen, the images of the ruined ship.
ROSE: It's been 84 years.
LOVETT: Just tell us what you can
ROSE: ( holds up her hand for silence )
ROSE: Titanic was called the Ship of Dreams. And it was. It really was. As the underwater camera rises past the rusted bow rail, WE DISSOLVE / MATCH MOVE to that same railing in 1912.
ROSE: I don't see what all the fuss is about. It doesn't look any bigger than the A PERSONAL VALET opens the door on the other side of the car for CALEDON HOCKLEY, the 30 year old heir to the elder Hockley's fortune. "Cal" is handsome, arrogant and rich beyond meaning.
CAL: You can be blase about some things, Rose, but not about Titanic. It's over a hundred feet longer than Mauretania, and far more luxurious. It has squash courts, a Parisian cafe. even Turkish baths. Cal turns and fives his hand to Rose's mother, RUTH DEWITT BUKATER, who descends from the touring car being him. Ruth is a 40ish society empress, from one of the most prominent Philadelphia families. She is a widow, and rules her household with iron will.
CAL: Your daughter is much too hard to impress, Ruth. Mind your step.
RUTH: ( gazing at the leviathan )
CAL: It is unsinkable. God himself couldn't sink this ship. Cal speaks with the pride of a host providing a special experience. This entire entourage of rich Americans is impeccably turned out, a quintessential example of the Edwardian upper class, complete with servants. Cal's VALET, SPICER LOVEJOY, is a tall and impassive, dour as an undertaker. Behind him emerge TWO MAIDS, personal servants to Ruth and A WHITE STAR LINE PORTER scurries toward them, harried by last minute Sir, you'll have to check your baggage through the main terminal, round that way Cal nonchalantly hands the man a fiver. The porter's eyes dilate. Five pounds was a monster tip in those days.
PORTER: Sir, you'll have to check your baggage through the main terminal, round that way Cal nonchalantly hands the man a fiver. The porter's eyes dilate. Five pounds was a monster tip in those days.
CAL: I put my faith in you, good sir.
PORTER: Yes, sir. My pleasure, sir. Cal never tires of the effect of money on the unwashed masses.
LOVEJOY: ( to the porter )
CAL: We'd better hurry. This way, ladies. He indicates the way toward the first class gangway. They move into the crowd. TRUDY BOLT, Rose's maid, hustles behind them, laden with bags of her mistress's most recent purchases. things too delicate for the baggage Cal leads, weaving between vehicles and handcarts, hurrying passengers ( mostly second class and steerage ) and well-wishers. Most of the first class passengers are avoiding the smelly press of the dockside crowd by using an elevated boarding bridge, twenty feet above. They pass a line of steerage passengers in their coarse wool and tweeds, queued up inside movable barriers like cattle in a chute. A HEALTH OFFICER examines their heads one by one, checking scalp and eyelashes for lice. They pass a well-dressed young man cranking the handle of a wooden Biograph "cinematograph" camera mounted on a tripod. NANIEL MARVIN ( whose father founded the Biograph Film Studio ) is filming his young bride in front of the Titanic. MARY MARVIN stands stiffly and smiles, self conscious.
DANIEL: Look up at the ship, darling, that's it. You're amazed! You can't believe how big it is! Like a mountain. That's great. Mary Marvin, without an acting fiber in her body, does a bad Clara Bow pantomime of awe, hands raised. Cal is jostled by two yelling steerage boys who shove past him. And he is bumped again a second later by the boys' father.
CAL: Sorry squire! The Cockney father pushes on, after his kids, shouting.
MAN: Sorry squire! The Cockney father pushes on, after his kids, shouting.
CAL: Steerage swine. Apparently missed his annual bath.
RUTH: Honestly, Cal, if you weren't forever booking everything at the last instant, we could have gone through the terminal instead of running along the dock like some squalid immigrant family.
CAL: All part of my charm, Ruth. At any rate, it was my darling fiancee's beauty rituals which made us late.
ROSE: You told me to change.
CAL: I couldn't let you wear black on sailing day, sweetpea. It's bad luck.
ROSE: I felt like black. Cal guides them out of the path of a horse-drawn wagon loaded down with two tons of OXFORD MARMALADE, in wooden cases, for Titanic's Victualling Here I've pulled every string I could to book us on the grandest ship in history, in her most luxurious suites. and you act as if you're going to your execution. Rose looks up as the hull of Titanic looms over them.a great iron wall, Bible black and sever. Cal motions her forward, and she enters the gangway to the D Deck doors with a sense of overwhelming dread.
CAL: Here I've pulled every string I could to book us on the grandest ship in history, in her most luxurious suites. and you act as if you're going to your execution. Rose looks up as the hull of Titanic looms over them.a great iron wall, Bible black and sever. Cal motions her forward, and she enters the gangway to the D Deck doors with a sense of overwhelming dread.
OLAF: ( subtitled )
SVEN: ( subtitled )
JACK: ( jaunty )
JACK: The moment of truth boys. Somebody's life's about to change. Fabrizio puts his cards down. So do the Swedes. Jack holds his close.
JACK: Let's see. Fabrizio's got niente. Olaf, you've got squat. Sven, uh oh. two pair. mmm. Sorry Fabrizio.
FABRIZIO: What sorry? What you got? You lose my money?? Ma va fa'n culo testa di Sorry, you're not gonna see your mama again for a long time. He slaps a full house down on the table.
JACK: Sorry, you're not gonna see your mama again for a long time. He slaps a full house down on the table.
JACK: ( grinning )
FABRIZIO: Porca Madonna!! YEEAAAAA!!! The table explodes into shouting in several languages. Jack rakes in the money and the tickets.
JACK: ( to the Swedes )
L'AMERICA!!!: Olaf balls up one huge farmer's fist. We think he's going to clobber Jack, but he swings round and punches Sven, who flops backward onto the floor and sits there, looking depressed. Olaf forgets about Jack and Fabrizio, who are dancing around, and goes into a rapid harangue of his stupid cousin. Jack kisses the tickets, then jumps on Fabrizio's back and rides him around the pub. It's like they won the lottery.
JACK: Goin' home. to the land o' the free and the home of the real hot-dogs! On the TITANIC!! We're ridin' in high style now! We're practically goddamned royalty, ragazzo mio!!
FABRIZIO: You see? Is my destinio!! Like I told you. I go to l'America!! To be a Capito?? I go to America!!
PUBKEEPER: No, mate. Titanic go to America. In five minutes.
JACK: Shit!! Come on, Fabri! Come on!! It's been grand. They run for the door.
PUBKEEPER: 'Course I'm sure if they knew it was you lot comin', they'd be pleased to 37 OMITTED 38 EXT. TERMINAL - TITANIC Jack and Fabrizio, carrying everything they own in the world in the kit bags on their shoulders, sprint toward the pier. They tear through milling crowds next to the terminal. Shouts go up behind them as they jostle slow-moving gentlemen. They dodge piles of luggage, and weave through groups of people. They burst out onto the pier and Jack comes to a dead stop. staring at the cast wall of the ship's hull, towering seven stories above the wharf and over an eighth of a mile long. The Titanic is Fabrizio runs back and grabs Jack, and they sprint toward the third class gangway aft, at E deck. They reach the bottom of the ramp just as SIXTH OFFICER MOODY detaches it at the top. It starts to swing down from the gangway doors.
37 OMITTED: 38 EXT. TERMINAL - TITANIC Jack and Fabrizio, carrying everything they own in the world in the kit bags on their shoulders, sprint toward the pier. They tear through milling crowds next to the terminal. Shouts go up behind them as they jostle slow-moving gentlemen. They dodge piles of luggage, and weave through groups of people. They burst out onto the pier and Jack comes to a dead stop. staring at the cast wall of the ship's hull, towering seven stories above the wharf and over an eighth of a mile long. The Titanic is Fabrizio runs back and grabs Jack, and they sprint toward the third class gangway aft, at E deck. They reach the bottom of the ramp just as SIXTH OFFICER MOODY detaches it at the top. It starts to swing down from the gangway doors.
JACK: Wait!! We're passengers! Flushed and panting, he waves the tickets.
MOODY: Have you been through the inspection queue?
JACK: ( lying cheerfully ) ( glances at Fabrizio )
MOODY: ( testy )
ROWE: Gundersen. And. He hands the tickets back, eyeing Fabrizio's Mediterranean looks Come on, Sven. Jack and Fabrizio whoop with victory as they run down the white-painted corridero. grinning from ear to ear.
JACK: ( grabbing Fabrizio's arm )
JACK: We are the luckiest sons of bitches in the world!
39 OMITTED: 40 EXT. TITANIC AND DOCK - DAY The mooring lines, as big around as a man's arm, are dropped into the water. A cheer goes up on the pier as SEVEN TUGS pull the Titanic away from the quay.
FABRIZIO: You know somebody?
JACK: Of course not. That's not the point. Goodbye! Goodbye!! I'll miss you! Grinning, Fabrixio joins in, adding his voice to the swell of voices, feeling the exhilaration of the moment.
FABRIZIO: Goodbye! I will never forget you!!
42 OMITTED: EXT. SOUTHAMPTON DOCK - DAY The crowd of cheering well-wishers waves heartily as a black wall of metal moves past them. Impossibly tiny figues wave back from the ship's rails. Titanic gathers speed.
BJORN: ( in Swedish/ subtitled )
CAL: Those mud puddles were certainly a waste of money.
ROSE: ( looking at a cubist portrait ) ( coming into the sitting room )
CAL: ( coming into the sitting room )
CAL: Put that in the wardrobe. 47 IN THE BEDROOM Rose enters with the large Degas of the dancers. She sets it on the dresser, near the canopy bed. Trudy is already in there, hanging up some of Rose's clothes.
TRUDY: It smells so brand new. Like they built it all just for us. I mean. just to think that tonight, when I crawl between the sheets, Iill be the first Cal appears in the doorway of the bedroom.
CAL: ( looking at Rose )
TRUDY: ( blushing at the innuendo )
CAL: The first and only. Forever. Rose's expression shows how bleak a prospect this is for her, now.
WOMAN: Well, I wasn't about to wait all day for you, sonny. Take 'em the rest of the way if you think you can manage.
50 OMITTED: 51 EXT. BOW - DAY The ship glows with the warm creamy light of late afternoon. Jack and Fabrizio stand right at the bow gripping the curving railing so familiar from images of the wreck. Jack leans over, looking down fifty feet to where the prow cuts the surface like a knife, sending up two glassy sheets of 52 INT. / EXT. TITANIC - SERIES OF SCENES - DAY ON THE BRIDGE, CAPTAIN SMITH turns from the binnacle to FIRST OFFICER
CAPTAIN SMITH: Take her to sea Mister Murdoch. Let's stretch her legs. Murdoch moves the engine telegraph lever to ALL AHEAD FULL. 53 NOW BEGINS a kind of musical/visual setpiece. an ode to the great ship. The music is rhythmic, surging forward, with a soaring melody that addresses the majesty and optimism of the ship of dreams. IN THE ENGINE ROOM the telegraph clangs and moves to "All Ahead Full".
SMITH: She's got a bone in her teeth now, eh, Mr. Murdoch. Smith accepts a cup of tea from FIFTH OFFICER LOWE. He contentedly watches the white V of water hurled outward from the bows like an expression of his own personal power. They are invulnerable, towering over the sea. 58 AT THE BOW Jack and Fabrizio lean far over, looking down. In the glassy bow-wave two dolphins appear, under the water, running fast just in front of the steel blade of the prow. They do it for the sheer joy and exultation of motion. Jack watches the dolphins and grins. They breach, jumping clear of the water and then dive back, crisscrossing in front of the bow, dancing ahead of the juggernaut. FABRIZIO looks forward across the Atlantic, staring into the sunsparkles.
FABRIZIO: I can see the Statue of Liberty already. Very small. of course. THE CAMERA ARCS around them, until they are framed against the sea. NOW WE PULL BACK, across the forecastle deck. Rising, as we continue back, and the ships rolls endlessly forward underneath. Over the bridge wing, along the boat deck until her funnels come INTO FRAME besides us and march past like the pillars of heaven, one by one. We pull back and up, until we are looking down the funnels, and the people strolling on the decks and standing at the rail become antlike. And still we pull back until the great lady is seen whole in a gorgeous aerial portrait, black and severe in her majesty.
ISMAY: .and our master shipbuilder, Mr. Andrews here, designed her from the keel plates up. He indicates a handsome 39 year old Irish gentlemen to his right, THOMAS ANDREWS, of Harland and Wolf Shipbuilders. WIDER, showing the group assembled for lunch the next day. Ismay seated with Cal, Rose, Ruth, Molly Brown and Thomas Andrews in the Palm Court, a beautiful sunny spot enclosed by high arched windows.
ANDREWS: ( disliking the attention )
MOLLY: Why're ships always bein' called "she"? Is it because men think half the women around have big sterns and should be weighed in tonnage? Just another example of the men settin' the rules their way. The waiter arrives to take orders. Rose lights a cigarette.
RUTH: You know I don't like that, Rose.
CAL: She knows. Cal takes the cigarette from her and stubs it out.
CAL: ( to the waiter )
MOLLY: So, you gonna cut her meat for her too there, Cal? Hey, who came up with the name Titanic? You, Bruce?
ISMAY: Yes, actually. I wanted to convey sheer size. And size means stability, luxury. and safety
ROSE: Do you know of Dr. Freud? His ideas about the male preoccupation with size might be of particular interest to you, Mr. Ismay. Andrews chockes on his breadstick, suppressing laughter.
RUTH: My God, Rose, what's gotten into
ROSE: Excuse me. She stalks away.
RUTH: ( mortified )
MOLLY: She's a pistol, Cal. You sure you can handle her?
CAL: ( tense but feigning unconcern )
TOMMY: That's typical. First class dogs come down here to take a shit. Jack looks up from his sketch.
JACK: That's so we know where we rank in the scheme of things.
TOMMY: Like we could forget. Jack glances across the well deck. At the aft railing of B deck promenade stands ROSE, in a long yellow dress and white gloves. CLOSE ON JACK, unable to take his eyes off of her. They are across from each other, about 60 feet apart, with the well deck like a valley between them. She on her promontory, he on his much lower one. She stares down at the water. He watches her unpin her elaborate hat and take it off. She looks at the frilly absurd thing, then tosses it over the rail. It sails far down to the water and is carried away, astern. A spot of yellow in the vast ocean. He is riveted by her. She looks like a figure in a romantic novel, sad and Fabrizio taps Tommy and they both look at Jack gazin at Rose. Fabrizio and Tommy grin at each other. Rose turns suddenly and looks right at Jack. He is caught staring, but he doesn't look away. She does, but then looks back. Their eyes meet across the space of the well deck, across the gulf between worlds. Jack sees a man ( Cal ) come up behind her and take her arm. She jerks her arm away. They argue in pantomime. She storms away, and he goes after her, disappearing along the A-deck promenade. Jack stares after her.
TOMMY: Forget it, boyo. You'd as like have angels fly out o' yer arse as get next to the likes o' her.
JACK: Don't do it. She whips her head around at the sound of his voice. It takes a second for her eyes to focus.
ROSE: Stay back! Don't come any closer! Jack sees the tear tracks on her cheeks in the faint glow from the stern running lights.
JACK: Take my hand. I'll pull you back in.
ROSE: No! Stay where you are. I mean it. I'll let go.
JACK: No you won't.
ROSE: What do you mean no I won't? Don't presume to tell me what I will and will not do. You don't know me.
JACK: You would have done it already. Now come on, take my hand. Rose is confused now. She can't see him very well through the tears, so she wipes them with one hand, almost losing her balance.
ROSE: You're distracting me. Go away.
JACK: I can't. I'm involved now. If you let go I have to jump in after you.
ROSE: Don't be absurd. You'll be killed. He takes off his jacket.
JACK: I'm a good swimmer. He starts unlacing his left shoe.
ROSE: The fall alone would kill you.
JACK: It would hurt. I'm not saying it wouldn't. To be honest I'm a lot more concerned about the water being so cold. She looks down. The reality factor of what she is doing is sinking in.
ROSE: How cold?
JACK: ( taking off his left shoe )
JACK: Ever been to Wisconsin?
ROSE: ( perplexed )
JACK: Well they have some of the coldest winters around, and I grew up there, near Chippewa Falls. Once when I was a kid me and my father were ice-fishing out on Lake Wissota. ice-fishing's where you chop a hole in I know what ice fishing is!
ROSE: I know what ice fishing is!
JACK: Sorry. Just. you look like kind of an indoor girl. Anyway, I went through some thin ice and I'm tellin' ya, water that cold. like that right down there. it hits you like a thousand knives all over your body. You can't breath, you can't think. least not about anything but the pain. Which is why I'm not looking forward to jumping in after you. But like I said, I don't see a choice. I guess I'm kinda hoping you'll come back over the rail and get me off the hook here.
ROSE: You're crazy.
JACK: That's what everybody says. But with all due respect, I'm not the one hanging off the back of a ship. He slides one step closer, like moving up on a spooked horse.
JACK: Come on. You don't want to do this. Give me your hand. Rose stares at this madman for a long time. She looks at his eyes and they somehow suddenly seem to fill her universe.
ROSE: She unfastens one hand from the rail and reaches it around toward him. He reaches out to take it, firmly.
JACK: I'm Jack Dawson.
ROSE: ( voice quavering )
ROSE: HELP! HELP!! I've got you. I won't let go. Jack holds her hand with all his strength, bracing himself on the railing with his other hand. Rose tries to get some kind of foothold on the smooth hull. Jack tries to lift her bodily over the railing. She can't get any footing in her dress and evening shoes, and she slips back. Rose SCREAMS Jack, awkwardly clutching Rose by whatever he can get a grip on as she flails, gets her over the railing. They fall together onto the deck in a tangled heap, spinning in such a way that Jack winds up slightly on top of Rowe slides down the ladder from the docking bridge like it's a fire drill and sprints across the fantail.
HELP! HELP!!: I've got you. I won't let go. Jack holds her hand with all his strength, bracing himself on the railing with his other hand. Rose tries to get some kind of foothold on the smooth hull. Jack tries to lift her bodily over the railing. She can't get any footing in her dress and evening shoes, and she slips back. Rose SCREAMS Jack, awkwardly clutching Rose by whatever he can get a grip on as she flails, gets her over the railing. They fall together onto the deck in a tangled heap, spinning in such a way that Jack winds up slightly on top of Rowe slides down the ladder from the docking bridge like it's a fire drill and sprints across the fantail.
JACK: I've got you. I won't let go. Jack holds her hand with all his strength, bracing himself on the railing with his other hand. Rose tries to get some kind of foothold on the smooth hull. Jack tries to lift her bodily over the railing. She can't get any footing in her dress and evening shoes, and she slips back. Rose SCREAMS Jack, awkwardly clutching Rose by whatever he can get a grip on as she flails, gets her over the railing. They fall together onto the deck in a tangled heap, spinning in such a way that Jack winds up slightly on top of Rowe slides down the ladder from the docking bridge like it's a fire drill and sprints across the fantail.
ROWE: Here, what's all this?! Rowe runs up and pulls Jack off of Rose, revealing her dishevelled and sobbing on the deck. Her dress is torn, and the hem is pushing up above her knees, showing one ripped stocking. He looks at Jack, the shaggy steerage man with his jacket off, and the first class lady clearly in distress, and starts drawing conclusions. Two seamen chug across the deck to join them.
ROWE: ( to Jack ) ( to the seamen )
CAL: What made you think you could put your hands on my fiancee?! Look at me, you filth! What did you think you were doing?!
ROSE: Cal, stop! It was an accident.
CAL: An accident?!
ROSE: It was. stupid really. I was leaning over and I slipped. Rose looks at Jack, getting eye contact.
ROSE: I was leaning way over, to see the. ah. propellers. And I slipped and I would have gone overboard. and Mr. Dawson here saved me and he almost went over himself.
CAL: You wanted to see the propellers?
GRACIE: ( shaking his head )
JACK: Uh huh. That was pretty much it. He looks at Rose a moment longer. Now they have a secret together.
COLONEL GRACIE: Well! The boy's a hero then. Good for you son, well done! So it's all's well and back to our brandy, eh? Jack is uncuffed. Cal gets Rose to her feet and moving.
CAL: ( rubbing her arms )
GRACIE: ( low )
CAL: Oh, right. Mr. Lovejoy. A twenty should do it.
ROSE: Is that the going rate for saving the woman you love?
CAL: Rose is displeased. Mmm. what to do? Cal turns back to Jack. He appraises him condescendingly. a steerage ruffian, unwashed and ill-mannered.
CAL: I know. Perhaps you could join us for dinner tomorrow, to regale our group with your heroic tale?
JACK: ( looking straight at Rose )
CAL: Good. Settled then. Cal turns to go, putting a protective arm around Rose. he leans close to Gracie as they walk away.
CAL: This should be amusing.
JACK: ( as Lovejoy passes )
LOVEJOY: You'll want to tie those. Interesting that the young lady slipped so mighty all of a sudden and you still had time to take of your jacket and shoes. Mmmm? Lovejoy's expression is bland, but the eyes are cold. He turns away to join his group.
CAL: ( unexpectedly tender )
CAL: I intended to save this till the engagement gals next week. But I thought tonight, perhaps a reminder of my feeling for you. Rose slowly opens the box. Inside is the necklace. "HEART OF THE OCEAN" in all its glory. It is huge. a malevolent blue stone glittering with an infinity of scalpel-like inner reflections.
ROSE: My God. Cal. Is it a
CAL: Daimond. Yes it is. 56 carats. He takes the necklace and during the following places it around her throat. He turns her to the mirror, staring behind her.
CAL: It was once worn by Louis the Sixteenth. They call it Le Coeur de la Mer, The Heart of the Ocean. Cal, it's. it's overwhelming. He gazes at the image of the two of them in the mirror.
ROSE: The Heart of the Ocean. Cal, it's. it's overwhelming. He gazes at the image of the two of them in the mirror.
CAL: It's for royalty. And we are royalty. His fingers caress her neck and throat. He seems himself to be disarmed by Rose's elegance and beauty. His emotion is, for the first time, unguarded.
CAL: There's nothing I couldn't give you. There's nothing I'd deny you if you would deny me. Open your heart to me, Rose. CAMERA begins to TRACK IN ON ROSE. Closer and closer, during the following:
TRANSITION: 68 INT. KELDYSH IMAGING SHACK Without a cut the wrinkled, weathered landscape of age has appeared around her eyes. But the eyes themselves are the same.
OLD ROSE: After all these years, feel it closing around my throat like a dog collar. THE CAMERA PUllS BACK to show her whole face.
ROSE: I can still feel its weight. If you could have felt it, not just seen it.
LOVETT: Well, that's the general idea, my dear.
BODINE: So let me get this right. You were gonna kill yourself by jumping off the That's great!
LOVETT: ( warningly )
BODINE: ( still laughing )
LOVETT: Rose, tell us more about the diamond. What did Hockley do with it after Im afraid I'm feeling a little tired, Mr. Lovett. Lizzy picks up the cue and starts to wheel her out.
ROSE: Im afraid I'm feeling a little tired, Mr. Lovett. Lizzy picks up the cue and starts to wheel her out.
LOVETT: Wait! Can you give us something go on, here. Like who had access to the safe. What about this Lovejoy guy? The valet. Did he have the combination?
LIZZY: That's enough. Lizzy takes her out. Rose's old hand reapears at the doorway in a frail wave goodbye.
BUELL: The partners are pissed.
BROCK: Bobby, buy me time. I need time.
BUELL: We're running thirty thousand a day, and we're six days over. I'm telling you what they're telling me. The hand is on the plug. It's starting to Well you tell the hand I need another two days! Bobby, Bobby, Bobby. we're close! I smell it. I smell ice. She had the diamond on. now we just have to find out where it wound up. I just gotta work her a bit more. Okay? Brock turns and sees Lizy standing behind him. She has overheard the past part of his dialogue with Buell. He goes to her and hustles her away from Buell, toward a quite spot on the deck.
BROCK: Well you tell the hand I need another two days! Bobby, Bobby, Bobby. we're close! I smell it. I smell ice. She had the diamond on. now we just have to find out where it wound up. I just gotta work her a bit more. Okay? Brock turns and sees Lizy standing behind him. She has overheard the past part of his dialogue with Buell. He goes to her and hustles her away from Buell, toward a quite spot on the deck.
BROCK: Hey, Lizzy. I need to talk to you for a second.
LIZZY: Don't you mean work me?
BROCK: Look, I'm running out of time. I need your help.
LIZZY: I'm not going to help you browbeat my hundred and
BROCK: ( with undisguised desperation )
LIZZY: That's the shape my hand's gonna be when I hold that thing. You understand? I'm not leaving here without it.
BROCK: That's the shape my hand's gonna be when I hold that thing. You understand? I'm not leaving here without it.
LIZZY: Look, Brock, she's going to do this her way, in her own time. Don't forget, she contacted you. She's out here for her own reasons, God knows what they Maybe she wants to make peace with the past.
LOVETT: Maybe she wants to make peace with the past.
LIZZY: What past? She has never once, not once, ever said a word about being on the Titanic until two days ago.
LOVETT: Then we're all meeting your grandmother for the first time.
LIZZY: ( looks at him hard )
LOVETT: Oh, yeah. Yeah, I'm a believer. She was there.
ROSE: The next day, Saturday, I remember thinking how the sunlight felt.
FABRIZIO: No Italian? Some little English?
HELGA: No, no. Norwegian. Only. Helga's eye is caught by something. Fabrizio looks, does a take. and Jack, curious, follows their gaze to see. Rose, coming toward them. The activity in the room stops. a hush falls. Rose feels suddenly self-conscious as the steerage passengers stare openly at this princess, some with resentment, others with awe. She spots Jack and gives a little smile, walking straight to him. He rises to meet her, Hello Jack. Fabrizio and Tommy are floored. Its like the slipper fitting Cinderella.
ROSE: Hello Jack. Fabrizio and Tommy are floored. Its like the slipper fitting Cinderella.
JACK: Hello again.
ROSE: Could I speak to you in private?
JACK: Uh, yes. Of course. After you. He motions her ahead and follows. Jack glances over his shoulder, one eyebrow raised, as he walks out with her leaving a stunned silence.
JACK: So, you got a name by the way?
ROSE: Rose. Rose DeWitt Bukater.
JACK: That's quite a moniker. I may hafta get you to write that down. There is an awkward pause.
ROSE: Mr. Dawson, I
JACK: Jack. I feel like such an idiot. It took me all morning to get up the nerve to face you.
ROSE: Jack. I feel like such an idiot. It took me all morning to get up the nerve to face you.
JACK: Well, here you are.
ROSE: Here I am. I. I want to thank you for what you did. Not just for. for pulling me back. But for your discretion.
JACK: You're welcome. Rose.
ROSE: Look, I know what you must be thinking! Poor little rich girl. What does she know about misery?
JACK: That's not what I was thinking. What I was thinking was. what could have happened to hurt this girl so much she though she had no way out.
ROSE: I don't. it wasn't just one thing. It was everything. It was them, it was their whole world. And I was trapped in it, like an insect in amber. I just had to get away. just run and run and run. and then I was at the back rail and there was no more ship. even the Titanic wasn't big enough. Not enough to get away from them. And before I'd really though about it, I was over the rail. I was so furious. I'll show them. They'll be sorry!
JACK: Uh huh. They'll be sorry. 'Course you'll be dead.
ROSE: ( she lowers her head )
JACK: That penguin last night, is he one of them?
ROSE: Penguin? Oh, Cal! He is them.
JACK: Is he your boyfriend?
ROSE: Worse I'm afraid. She shows him her engagement ring. A sizable diamond.
JACK: Gawd look at that thing! You would have gone straight to the bottom. They laugh together. A passing steward scowls at Jack, who is clearly not a first class passenger, but Rose just glares at him away.
JACK: So you feel like you're stuck on a train you can't get off 'cause you're marryin' this fella.
ROSE: Yes, exactly!
JACK: So don't marry him.
ROSE: If only it were that simple.
JACK: It is that simple.
ROSE: Oh, Jack. please don't judge me until you've seen my world.
JACK: Well, I guess I will tonight. Looking for another topic, any other topic, she indicates his sketchbook.
ROSE: What's this?
JACK: Just some sketches.
ROSE: May I? The question is rhetorical because she has already grabbed the book. She sits on a deck chair and opens the sketchbook. ON JACK'S sketches. each one an expressive little bit of humanity: an old woman's hands, a sleeping man, a father and daughter at the rail. The faces are luminous and alive. His book is a celebration of the human condition.
ROSE: Jack, these are quite good! Really, they are.
JACK: Well, they didn't think too much of 'em in Paree. Some loose sketches fall out and are taken by the wind. Jack scrambles after them. catching two, but the rest are gone, over the rail.
ROSE: Oh no! Oh, I'm so sorry. Truly!
JACK: Well, they didn't think too much of 'em in Paree. He snaps his wrist, shaking his drawing hand in a flourish.
JACK: I just seem to spew 'em out. Besides, they're not worth a damn anyway. For emphasis he throws away the two he caught. They sail off.
ROSE: ( laughing )
ROSE: Well, well. She has come upon a series of nudes. Rose is transfixed by the languid beauty he has created. His nudes are soulful, real, with expressive hands and eyes. They feel more like portraits than studies of the human form. almost uncomfortably intimate. Rose blushes, raising the book as some strollers go by.
ROSE: ( trying to be very adult )
JACK: Yup. That's one of the great things about Paris. Lots of girls willing take their clothes off. She studies one drawing in particular, the girl posed half in sunlight, half in shadow. Her hands lie at her chin, one furled and one open like a flower, languid and graceful. The drawing is like an Alfred Steiglitz print of Georgia O'Keefe.
ROSE: You liked this woman. You used her several times.
JACK: She had beautiful hands.
ROSE: ( smiling )
JACK: ( laughing )
ROSE: ( looking up from the drawings )
JACK: I see you. There it is. That piercing gaze again.
ROSE: You wouldn'ta jumped.
JACK: You wouldn'ta jumped.
RUTH: Oh no, that vulgar Brown woman is coming this way. Get up, quickly before she sits with us. Molly Brown walks up, greeting them cheerfully as they are rising.
MOLLY: Hello girls, I was hoping I'd catch you at tea.
RUTH: We're awfully sorry you missed it. The Countess and I are just off to take the air on the boat deck.
MOLLY: That sounds great. Let's go. I need to catch up on the gossip. Ruth grits her teeth as the three of them head for the Grand Staircase to go up. TRACKING WITH THEM, as they cross the room, the SHOT HANDS OFF to Bruce Ismay and Captain Smith at another table.
ISMAY: So you've not lit the last four boilers then?
SMITH: No, but we're making excellent time.
ISMAY: ( impatiently )
SMITH: I prefer not to push the engines until they've been properly run in.
ISMAY: Of course I leave it to your good offices to decide what's best, but what a glorious end to your last crossing if we get into New York Tuesday night and surprise them all. Retire with a bang, eh, E.J? A beat. Then Smith nods, stiffy.
ROSE: ( girlish and excited )
JACK: ( laughing ) ( angry in a flash )
ROSE: ( angry in a flash )
JACK: I'm sorry. Really. I am.
ROSE: Well, alright. There's something in me, Jack. I feel it. I don't know what it is, whether I should be an artist, or, I don't know. a dancer. Like Isadora Duncan.. a wild pagan spirit. She leaps forward, lands deftly and whirls like a dervish. Then she sees something ahead and her face lights up.
ROSE: .or a moving picture actress! She takes his hand and runs, pulling him along the deck toward DANIEL AND MARY MARVIN. Daniel is cranking the big wooden movie camera as she poses stiffly at the rail.
MARVIN: You're sad. Sad, sad, sad. You've left your lover on the shore. You may never see him agian. Try to be sadder, darling. SUDDENLY Rose shoots into the shot and strikes a theatrical pose at the rail next to Mary. Mary bursts out laughing. Rose pulls Jack into the picture and makes him pose. Marvin grins and starts yelling and gesturing. We see this in CUTS, with music and no dialogue.
ROSE: So then what, Mr. Wandering Jack?
JACK: Well, then logging got to be too much like work, so I went down to Los Angelas to the pier in Santa Monica. That's a swell place, they even have a rollercoaster. I sketched portraits there for ten cents a piece.
ROSE: A whole ten cents?!
JACK: ( not getting it )
ROSE: ( looks at the dusk sky )
JACK: Alright, we're going. We'll drink cheap beer and go on the rollercoaster until we throw up and we'll ride horses on the beach. right in the surf. but you have to ride like a cowboy, none of that side-saddle stuff.
ROSE: You mean one leg on each side? Scandalous! Can you show me?
JACK: Sure. If you like.
ROSE: ( smiling at him ) ( she looks at the horizon )
JACK: They didn't teach you that in finishing school? Here, it's easy. Watch He spits. It arcs out over the water.
JACK: Your turn. Rose screws up her mouth and spits. A pathetic little bit of foamy spittle which mostly runs down her chin before falling off into the water.
JACK: Nope, that was pitiful. Here, like this. you hawk it down. HHHNNNK!. then roll it on your tongue, up to the front, like thith, then a big breath and PLOOOW!! You see the range on that thing? She goes through the steps. Hawks it down, etc. He coaches her through it ( ad lib ) while doing the steps himself. She lets fly. So does he. Two comets of gob fly out over the water.
JACK: That was great! Rose turns to him, her face alight. Suddenly she blanches. He sees her expression and turns. RUTH, the Countess of Rothes, and Molly Brown have been watching them hawking lugees. Rose becomes instantly composed.
ROSE: Mother, may I introduce Jack Dawson.
RUTH: Charmed, I'm sure. Jack has a little spit running down his chin. He doesn't know it. Molly Brown is grinning. As Rose proceeds with the introductions, we hear.
MOLLY: Well, Jack, it sounds like you're a good man to have around in a sticky They all jump as a BUGLER sounds the meal call right behind them.
MOLLY: Why do they insist on always announcing dinner like a damn cavalry charge?
ROSE: Shall we go dress, mother? See you at dinner, Jack.
RUTH: ( as they walk away )
MOLLY: Son, do you have the slightest comprehension of what you're doing?
JACK: Not really.
MOLLY: Well, you're about to go into the snakepit. I hope you're ready. What are you planning to wear? Jack looks down at his clothes. Back up at her. He hadn't thought about I figured.
MOLLY: I figured.
MOLLY: Don't feel bad about it. My husband still can't tie one of these damn things after 20 years. There you go. She picks up a jacket off the bed and hands it to him. Jack goes into the bathroom to put it on. Molly starts picking up the stuff off the bed.
MOLLY: I gotta buy everything in three sizes 'cause I never know how much he's been eating while I'm away. She turns and sees him, though we don't.
MOLLY: My, my, my. you shine up like a new penny.
STEWARD: Good evening, sir. Jack plays the role smoothly. Nods with just the right degree of disdain.
JACK: I saw that in a nickelodean once, and I always wanted to do it.
ROSE: Cal, surely you remember Mr. Dawson.
CAL: ( caught off guard )
MOLLY: Ain't nothin' to it, is there, Jack?
JACK: Yeah, you just dress like a pallbearer and keep your nose up.
MOLLY: Remember, the only thing they respect is money, so just act like you've got a lot of it and you're in the club. As they enter the swirling throng, Rose leans close to him, pointing out several notables.
ROSE: There's the Countess Rothes. And that's John Jacob Astor. the richest man on the ship. His little wifey there, Madeleine, is my age and in a delicate condition. See how she's trying to hide it. Quite the scandal. And over there, that's Sir Cosmo and Lucile, Lady Duff-Gordon. She designs naughty lingerie, among her many talents. Very popular with the royals. Cal becomes engrossed in a conversations with Cosmo Duff-Gordon and Colonel Gracie, while Ruth, the Countess and Lucille discuss fashion. Rose picots Jack smoothly, to show him another couple, dressed impeccably.
ROSE: And that's Benjamin Guggenheim and his mistress, Madame Aubert. Mrs. Guggenheim is at home with the children, of course. Cal, meanwhile, is accepting the praise of his male counterparts, who are looking at Rose like a prize show horse.
SIR COSMO: Hockley, she is splendid.
CAL: Thank you.
GRACIE: Cal's a lucky man. I know him well, and it can only be luck. Ruth steps over, hearing the last. She takes Cal's arm, somewhat How can you say that Colonel? Caledon Hockley is a great catch. The entourage strolls toward the dining saloon, where they run into the Astor's going through the ornate double doors.
RUTH: How can you say that Colonel? Caledon Hockley is a great catch. The entourage strolls toward the dining saloon, where they run into the Astor's going through the ornate double doors.
ROSE: J.J., Madeleine, I'd like you to meet Jack Dawson.
ASTOR: ( shaking his hand )
JACK: No, the Chippewa Falls Dawsons, actually. J.J. nods as if he's heard of them, then looks puzzled. Madeleine Astor appraises Jack and whispers girlishly to Rose:
MADELEINE: It's a pity we're both spoken for, isn't it?
RUTH: Tell us of the accommodations in steerage, Mr. Dawson. I hear they're quite good on this ship. WIDER: THE TABLE. Jack is seated opposite Rose, who is flanked by Cal and Thomas Andrews. Also at the table are Molly Brown, Ismay, Colonel Gracie, the Countess, Guggenheim, Madame Aubert, and the Astors.
JACK: The best I've seen, m'am. Hardly any rats. Rose motions surreptitiously for Jack to take his napkin off his plate.
CAL: Mr. Dawson is joining us from third class. He was of some assistance to my fiancee last night. This is foie gras. It's goose liver. We see whispers exchanged. Jack becomesthe subject of furtive glances. Now they're all feeling terribly liberal and dangerous.
GUGGENHEIM: ( low to Madame Aubert )
WAITER: ( to Jack )
CAL: ( answering for him ) ( to Jack, smiling )
JACK: ( to the waiter )
RUTH: And where exactly do you live, Mr. Dawson?
JACK: Well, right now my address is the RMS Titanic. After that, I'm on God's good humor. Salad is served. Jack reaches for the fish fork. Rose gives him a look and picks up the salad fork, prompting him with her eyes. He changes forks.
RUTH: You find that sort of rootless existence appealing, do you?
JACK: Well. it's a big world, and I want to see it all before I go. My father was always talkin' about goin' to see the ocean. He died in the town he was born in, and never did see it. You can't wait around, because you never know what hand you're going to get dealt next. See, my folks died in a fire when I was fifteen, and I've been on the road since. Somethin' like that teaches you to take life as it comes at you. To make each day count. Molly Brown raises her glass in a salute.
MOLLY: Well said, Jack.
COLONEL GRACIE: ( raising his glass )
ROSE: To making it count. Ruth, annoyed that Jack has scored a point, presses him further.
RUTH: How is it you have the means to travel, Mr. Dawson?
JACK: I work my way from place to place. Tramp steamers and such. I won my ticket on Titanic here in a lucky hand at poker. A very lucky hand.
GRACIE: All life is a game of luck.
CAL: A real man makes his own luck, Archie. Rose notices that Thomas Andrews, sitting next to her, is writing in his notebook, completely ignoring the conversation.
ROSE: Mr. Andrews, what are you doing? I see you everywhere writing in this little book. Increase number of screws in hat hooks from 2 to 3. You build the biggest ship in the world and this preoccupies you?! Andrews smiles sheepishly.
ISMAY: He knows every rivet in her, don't you Thomas?
ANDREWS: All three million of them.
ISMAY: His blood and soul are in the ship. She may be mine on paper, but in the eyes of God she belongs to Thomas Andrews.
ROSE: Your ship is a wonder, Mr. Andrews. Truly.
ANDREWS: Thankyou, Rose. We see that Andrews has come under Rose's spell. 83 TIME TRANSITION: Dessert has been served and a waiter arrives with cigars in a humidor on a wheeled cart. The men start clipping ends and Nest it'll be brandies in the Smoking Room.
ROSE: ( low, to Jack )
GRACIE: ( rising )
ROSE: ( low )
GRACIE: Joining us, Dawson? You don't want to stay out here with the women, do you? Actually he does, but.
JACK: No thanks. I'm heading back.
CAL: Probably best. It'll be all business and politics, that sort of thing. Wouldn't interest you. Good of you to come. Cal and te other gentlemen exit.
ROSE: Jack, must you go?
JACK: Time for my coach to turn back into a pumpkin. He leans over to take her hand. INSERT: We see him slip a tiny folded not into her palm. Ruth, scowling, watches him walk away across the enormous room. Rose surreptitiously opens the note below table level. It reads: "Make it count. Meet me at the clock".
JACK: Want to go to a real party?
ROSE: May I cut in, miss?
JACK: You're still my best girl, Cora. Cora scampers off. Rose and Jack face each other. She is trembling as he takes her right hand in his left. His other hand slides to the small of her back. It is an electrifying moment.
ROSE: I don't know the steps.
JACK: Just move with me. Don't think. The music starts and they are off. A little awkward at first, she starts to get into it. She grins at Jack as she starts to get the rhythm of the Wait. stop! She bends down, pulling off her high heeled shoes, and flings them to Tommy. Then she grabs Jack and they plunge back into the fray, dancing faster as the music speeds up.
ROSE: Wait. stop! She bends down, pulling off her high heeled shoes, and flings them to Tommy. Then she grabs Jack and they plunge back into the fray, dancing faster as the music speeds up.
86 OMITTED: 87 INT. THIRD CLASS GENERAL ROOM The scene is rowdy and rollicking. A table gets knocked over as a drunk crashes into it. And in the middle of it. Rose dancing with Jack in her stocking feet. The steps are fast and she shines with sweat. A space opens around them, and people watch them, clapping as the band plays faster and FABRIZIO AND HELGA. Dancing has obviated the need for a common language. He whirls her, then she responds by whirling him. Fabrizio's eyes go wide when he realizes she's stronger than he is. The tune ends in a mad rush. Jack steps away from Rose with a flourish, allowing her to take a bow. Exhilarated and slightly tipsy, she does a graceful ballet ployer, feet turned out perfectly. Everyone laughs and applauds. Rose is a hit with the steerage folks, who've never had a lady party with them. They move to a table, flushed and sweaty. Rose grabs Fabrizio's cigarette and takes a big drag. She's feeling cocky. Fabrizio is grinning, holding hands with Helga.
JACK: How you two doin'?
FABRIZIO: I don't know hwat she's say, she don't know what I say, so we get along Tommy walks up with a pint for each of them. Rose chugs hers, showing off.
ROSE: You think a first class girl can't drink? Everybody else is dancing again, and Bjorn Gundersen crashes into Tommy, who sloshes his beer over Rose's dress. She laughs, not caring. But Tommy lunges, grabbing Bjorn and wheeling him around.
TOMMY: You stupid bastard!! Bjorn comes around, his fists coming up. and Jack leaps into the middle of it, pushing them apart.
JACK: Boys, boys! Did I ever tell you the one about the Swede and the Irishman goin' to the whorehouse? Tommy stands there, all piss and vinegar, chest puffed up. Then he grins and claps Bjorn on the shoulder.
ROSE: So, you think you're big tough men? Let's see you do this. In her stocking feet she assumes a ballet stance, arms raised, and goes up on point, taking her entire weight on the tips of her toes. The guys gape at her incredible muscle control. She comes back down, then her face screws up in pain. She grabs one foot, hopping around.
ROSE: Oooowww! I haven't done that in years. Jack catches her as she loses her balance, and everyone cracks up. THE DOOR to the well deck is open a few inches as Lovejoy watches through the gap. He sees Jack holding Rose, both of them laughing. LOVEJOY closes the door.
ROSE: Isn't it magnificent? So grand and endless. She goes to the rail and leans on it.
ROSE: They're such small people, Jack. my crowd. They think they're giants on the earth, but they're not even dust in God's eye. They live inside this little tiny champagne bubble. and someday the bubble's going to burst. He leans at the rail next to her, his hand just touching hers. It is the slightest contact imaginable, and all either one of them can feel is that square inch of skin where their hands are touching.
JACK: You're not one of them. There's been a mistake.
ROSE: A mistake?
JACK: Uh huh. You got mailed to the wrong address.
ROSE: ( laughing )
JACK: That was a long one. My father used to say that whenever you saw one, it was a soul going to heaven.
ROSE: I like that. Aren't we supposed to wish on it? Jack looks at her, and finds that they are suddenly very close together. It would be so easy to move another couple of inches, to kiss her. Rose seems to be thinking the same thing.
JACK: What would you wish for? After a beat, Rose pulls back.
ROSE: Something I can't have. Goodnight, Jack. And thank you. She leaves the rail and hurries through the First Class Entrance.
JACK: But the door bangs shut, and she is gone. Back to her world.
CAL: I had hoped you would come to me last night.
ROSE: I was tired.
CAL: Yes. Your exertions below decks were no doubt exausting.
ROSE: ( stiffening )
CAL: You will never behave like that again! Do you understand?
ROSE: I'm not some foreman in your mills than you can command! I am your Cal explodes, sweeping the breakfast china off the table with a crash. He moves to her in one shocking moment, glowering over her and gripping the sides of her chair, so she is trapped between his arms.
CAL: Yes! You are! And my wife. in practice, if not yet by law. So you will honor me, as a wife is required to honor her husband! I will not be made out a fool! Is this in any way unclear? Rose shrinks into the chair. She sees Trudy, frozen, partway through the door bringing the orange juice. Cal follows Rose's glance and straightens up. He stalks past the maid, entering the stateroom.
ROSE: We. had a little accident. I'm sorry, Trudy.
RUTH: You are not to see that boy again, do you understand me Rose? I forbid it! Rose has her knee at the base of her mother's back and is pulling the corset strings with both hands.
ROSE: Oh, stop it, Mother. You'll give yourself a nosebleed. Ruth pulls away from her, and crosses to the door, locking it. CLACK!
RUTH: ( wheeling on her )
ROSE: Of course I know it's gone. You remind me every day!
RUTH: Your father left us nothing but a legacy of bad debts hidden by a good name. And that name is the only card we have to play. Rose turns her around and grabs the corset strings again. Ruth sucks in her waist and Rose pulls.
RUTH: I don't understand you. It is a fine match with Hockley, and it will insure our survival.
ROSE: ( hurt and lost )
RUTH: Do you want to se me working as a seamstress? Is that what you want? Do you want to see our fine things sold at an auction, our memories scattered to the winds? My God, Rose, how can you be so selfish?
ROSE: It's so unfair.
RUTH: Of course it's unfair! We're women. Our choices are never easy. Rose pulls the corset tighter.
STEWARD: Look, you, you're not supposed to be in here.
JACK: I was just here last night. don't you remember? He'll tell you.
LOVEJOY: Mr. Hockley and Mrs. DeWitt Bukater continue to be most appreciative of your assistance. They asked me to give you this in gratitude He holds out two twenty dollar bills, which Jack refuses to take.
JACK: I don't want money, I
LOVEJOY: and also to remind you that you hold a third class ticket and your presence here is no longer appropriate. Jack spots Rose but she doesn't see him.
JACK: I just need to talk to Rose for a
LOVEJOY: Gentlemen, please see that Mr. Dawson gets back where he belongs. And that he stays there.
STEWARD: Yes sir! Come along you. END ON ROSE, not seeing Jack hustled out.
ROSE: ( singing )
CAL: Reminds me of my Harvard days. T.W. McCAULEY, the gym instructor, is a bouncy little man in white flannels, eager to show off his modern equipment, like his present-day counterpart on an "Abflex" infomercial. He hits a switch and a machine with a saddle on it starts to undulate. Rose puts her hand on it, curious.
MCCAULEY: The electric horse is very popular. We even have an electric camel. Care to try your hand at the rowing, m'am?
RUTH: Don't be absurd. I can't think of a skill I should likely need less.
ANDREWS: The next stop on our tour will be bridge. This way, please.
TOMMY: She's a goddess amongst mortal men, there's no denyin'. But she's in another world, Jackie, forget her. She's closed the door. Jack moves furtively to the wall below the A-Deck promenade, aft.
JACK: It was them, not her. Ready. go. Tommy shakes his head resignedly and puts his hands together, crouching down. Jack steps into Tommy's hands and gets boosted up to the next deck, where he scrambles nimbly over the railing, onto the First Class deck.
TOMMY: He's not bein' logical, I tell ya.
FABRIZIO: Amore is'a not logical.
BRIDE: Another ice warning, sir. This one from the "Baltic".
SMITH: Thankyou, Sparks. Smith glances at the message then nonchalantly puts it in his pocket. He nods reassuringly to Rose and the group.
SMITH: Not to worry, it's quite normal for this time of year. In fact, we're speeding up. I've just ordered the last boilers lit. Andrews scowls slightly before motioning the group toward the door. They exit just as SECOND OFFICER CHARLES HERBERT LIGHTOLLER comes out of the chartroom, stopping next to First Officer Murdoch.
LIGHTOLLER: Did we ever find those binoculars for the lookouts?
ROSE: Mr. Andrews, I did the sum in my head, and with the number of lifeboats times the capacity you mentioned. forgive me, but it seems that there are not enough for everyone aboard.
ANDREWS: About half, actually. Rose, you miss nothing, do you? In fact, I put in these new type davits, which can take an extra row of boats here. But it was thought. by some. that the deck would look too cluttered. So I was over-ruled.
CAL: ( slapping the side of a boat )
ANDREWS: Sleep soundly, young Rose. I have built you a good ship, strong and true. She's all the lifeboat you need. As they are passing Boat 7, a gentlemen turns from the rail and walks up behind the group. It is Jack. He taps Rose on the arm and she turns, gasping. He motions and she cuts away from the group toward a door which Jack holds open. They duck into the
ROSE: Jack, this is impossible. I can't see you. He takes her by the shoulders.
JACK: Rose, you're no picnic. you're a spoiled little brat even, but under that you're a strong, pure heart, and you're the most amazingly astounding girl I've ever known and
ROSE: Jack, I
JACK: No wait. Let me try to get this out. You're amazing. and I know I have nothing to offer you, Rose. I know that. But I'm involved now. You jump, I jump, remember? I can't turn away without knowin' that you're goin' to be Rose feels the tears coming to her eyes. Jack is so open and real. not like anyone she has ever known.
ROSE: You're making this very hard. I'll be fine. Really.
JACK: I don't think so. They've got you in a glass jar like some butterfly, and you're goin' to die if you don't break out. Maybe not right away, 'cause you're strong. But sooner or later the fire in you is goin' to go out.
ROSE: It's not up to you to save me, Jack.
JACK: You're right. Only you can do that.
ROSE: I have to get back, they'll miss me. Please, Jack, for both our sakes, leave me alone.
RUTH: Of course the invitations had to be sent back to the printers twice. And the bridesmaids dresses! Let me tell you what an odyssey that has been. TRACKING SLOWLY IN on Rose as Ruth goes on. REVERSE, ROSE'S POV: A tabeau of MOTHER and DAUGHTER having tea. The four year old girl, wearing white gloves, daintily picking up a cookie. The mother correcting her on her posture, and the way she holds the teacup. The little girl is trying so hard to please, her expression serious. A glimpse of Rose at that age, and we see the relentless conditioning. the pain to becoming an Edwardian geisha. ON ROSE. She calmly and deliberately turns her teacup over, spilling tea all over her dress.
ROSE: Oh, look what I've done.
ROSE: Hello, Jack. He turns and she is standing there.
ROSE: I changed my mind. He smiles at her, his eyes drinking her in. Her cheeks are red with the chill wind, and her eyes sparkle. Her hair blows wildly about her face.
ROSE: Fabrizio said you might be up
JACK: Sssshh. Come here. He puts his hands on her waist. As if he is going to kiss her.
JACK: Close your eyes. She does, and he turns her to face forward, the way the ship is going. He presses her gently to the rail, standing right behind her. Then he takes her two hands and raises them until she is standing with her arms outstetched on each side. Rose is going along with him. When he lowers his hands, her arms stay up. like wings.
JACK: Okay. Open them. Rose gasps. There is nothing in her field of vision but water. It's like there is no ship under them at all, just the two of them soaring. The Atlantic unrolls toward her, a hammered copper shield under a dusk sky. There is only the wind, and the hiss of the water 50 feel below.
ROSE: I'm flying! She leans forward, arching her back. He puts his hands on her waist to steady her.
JACK: ( singing softly )
FLEET: Wish I had those bleedin' binoculars. 101 JACK AND ROSE, embracing at the bow rail, DISSOLVE SLOWLY AWAY, leaving the ruined bow of the WRECK
ROSE: That was the last time Titanic ever saw daylight. Brock Lovett changes the tape in the minicassette recorder.
BROCK: So we're up to dusk on the night of the sinking. Six hours to go.
BODINE: Don't you love it? There's Smith, he's standing there with the iceberg warning in his fucking hand. . excuse me. in his hand, and he's ordering more speed.
BROCK: 26 years of experience working against him. He figures anything big enough to sink the ship they're going to see in time to turn. But the ship's too big, with too small a rudder. it can't corner worth shit. Everything he knows is wrong. ROSE is ignoring this conversation. She has the art-nouveau comb with the jade butterfly on the handle in her hands, turning it slowly. She is watching a monitor, which shows the ruins of Suite B-52/56. PUSH IN until the image fills frame.
ROSE: Will this light do? Don't artists need good light?
JACK: ( bad French accent ) ( seeing the paintings )
JACK: Isn't he great. the use of color? I saw him once. through a hole in this garden fence in Giverny. She goes into the adjoining walk-in wardrobe closet. He sees her go to the safe and start working the combination. He's fascinated.
ROSE: Cal insist on luggin this thing everywhere.
JACK: Should I be expecting him anytime soon?
ROSE: Not as long as the cigars and brandy hold out. CLUNK! She unlocks the safe. Glancing up, she meets his eyes in the mirror behind the safe. She opens it and removes the necklace, then holds it out to Jack who takes it nervously.
JACK: What is it? A sapphire?
ROSE: A diamond. A very rare diamond, called the Heart of the Ocean. Jack gazes at wealth beyond his comprehension.
ROSE: I want you to draw me like your French girl. Wearing this. Wearing only this. He looks up at her, surprised, and we CUT TO: 104 ROSE'S BEDROOM. ON THE BUTTERFLY COMB as Rose draws it out of her hair. She shakes her head and her hair falls free around her shoulders. 105 IN THE SITTING ROOM Jack is laying out his pencils like surgical tools. His sketchbook is open and ready. He looks up as she comes into the room, wearing a silk kimono.
ROSE: The last thing I need is another picture of me looking like a china doll. As a paying customer, I expect to get what I want. She hands him a dime and steps back, parting the kimono. The blue stone lies on her creamy breast. Her heart is pounding as she slowly lowers the Jakc looks so stricken, it is almost comical. The kimono drops to the floor ( this is all in cuts, lyrical ).
ROSE: Tell me when it looks right to you. She poses on the divan, settling like a cat into the position we remember from the drawing. almost.
JACK: Uh. just bend your left leg a little and. and lower your head. Eyes to me. That's it. Jack starts to sketch. He drops his pencil and she stifles a laugh.
ROSE: I believe you are blushing, Mr. Big Artiste. I can't imagine Monsieur Monet He does landscapes. TIGHT ON JACK as his eyes come up to look at her over the top edge of his sketchpad. We have seen this image of him before, in her memory. It is an image she will carry the rest of her life. Despite his nervousness, he draws with sure strokes, and what emerges is the best thing he has ever done. Her pose is languid, her hands beautiful, and her eyes radiate her energy.
JACK: ( sweating )
OLD ROSE: My heart was pounding the whole time. It was the most erotic moment of my life. up till then at least. CUT TO REVERSE: A semicircle of listeners staring in rapt, frozen silence. The story of Jack and Rose has finally and completely grabbed them.
BODINE: What, uh. happened next?
OLD ROSE: ( smiling )
ROSE: Date it, Jack. I want to always remember this night. He does: 4/14/1912. Rose meanwhile scribbles a note on a piece of Titanic stationary. We don't see what it says. She accepts the drawing from him, and crosses to the safe in the wardrobe. She puts the diamond back in the safe, placing hte drawing and the note on top of it. Closes the door with a CLUNK!
LOVEJOY: None of the stewards have seen her.
CAL: ( low but forceful )
LIGHTOLLER: I don't think I've ever seen such a flat calm, in 24 years at sea.
SMITH: Yes, like a mill pond. Not a breath of wind.
LIGHTOLLER: It's make the bergs harder to see, with no breaking water at the base.
SMITH: Mmmmm. Well, I'm off. Maintain speed and heading, Mr. Lightoller.
LIGHTOLLER: Yes sir.
SMITH: And wake me, of course, if anything becomes in the slightest degree 111 INT. ROSE AND CAL'S SUITE Rose, fully dressed now, returns to the sitting room. They hear a key in the lock. Rose takes Jack's hand and leads him silently through the bedrooms. Lovejoy enters by the sitting room door.
LOVEJOY: Miss Rose? Hello? He hears a door opening and goes through Cal's room toward hers.
ROSE: Come on! She and Jack break into a run, surprising the few ladies and gentlemen about. Rose leads him past the stairs to the bank of elevators. They run into one, shocking the hell out of the OPERATOR.
ROSE: Take us down. Quickly, quickly! The Operator scrambles to comply. Jack even helps him close the steel gate. Lovejoy runs up as the lift starts to descend. He slams one hand on the bars of the gate. Rose makes a very rude and unladylike gesture, and laughs as Lovejoy disappears above. The Operator gapes at her.
JACK: Pretty tough for a valet, this fella.
ROSE: He's an ex-Pinkerton. Cal's father hired him to keep Cal out of trouble. to make sure he always got back to the hotel with his wallet and watch, after some crawl through the less reputable parts of town.
JACK: Kinda like we're doin' right now uh oh! Lovejoy has spotted them from a cross-corridor nearby. He charges toward them. Jack and Rose run around a corner into a blind alley. There is one door, marked CREW ONLY, and Jack flings it open. 115 They enter a roaring RAN ROOM, with no way out but a ladder going down. Jack latches the deadbolt on the door, and Lovejoy slams against it a moment later. Jack grins at Rose, pointing to the ladder.
JACK: After you, m'lady.
JACK: ( shouting over the din )
COLONEL GRACIE: We're going like hell I tel you. I have fifty dollars that says we make it into New York Tuesday night! Cal looks at his gold pocket watch, and scowls, not listening.
118 OMITTED: 119 INT. BOILER ROOM SIX The furnaces roar, silhouetting the glistening stokers. Jack kisses Rose's face, tasting the sweat trickling down from her forehead. They kiss passionately in the steamy, pounding darkness.
JACK: Where to, Miss?
ROSE: To the stars. ON JACK as her hands come out of the shadows and pull him over the seat into the back. He lands next to her, and his breath seems loud in the quiet darkness. He looks at her and she is smiling. It is the moment of truth.
JACK: Are you nervous?
ROSE: Au contraire, mon cher. He strokes her face, cherishing her. She kisses his artist's fingers.
ROSE: Put your hands on me Jack. He kisses her, and she slides down in the seat under his welcome weight.
BRIDE: Look at this one, he wants his private train to meet him. La dee da. We'll be up all bloody night on this lot. Phillips start to receive an incoming message from a nearby ship, the Leyland frieghter CALIFORNIAN, which jams his outgoing signal. At such close range, the beeps are deafening.
PHILLIPS: Christ! It's that idiot on the Californian. Cursing, Phillips furiously keys a rebuke.
EVANS: Stupid bastard. I try to warn him about the ice, and he says "Keep out. Shut up. I'm working Cape Race."
GROVES: Now what's he sending?
EVANS: "No seasickness. Poker business good. Al". Well that's it for me. I'm shutting down. As Evans wearily switches off his generator, Groves goes out on deck. PAN oFF Him to reveal the ship is stopped fifty yards from the edge of a field of pack ice and icebergs stretching as far as the eye can see.
FRAME: CUT TO:
ROSE: You're trembling.
JACK: It's okay. I'm alright. He lays his cheek against her chest.
JACK: I can feel your heart beating. She hugs his head to her chest, and just holds on for dear life.
FLEET: You can smell ice, you know, when it's near.
LEE: Well I can.
FLEET: Well I can.
CAL: I have a better idea.
STEWARD: Got yer! REVERSE: the back seat is empty.
ROSE: When this ship docks, I'm getting off with you.
JACK: This is crazy.
ROSE: I know. It doesn't make any sense. That's why I trust it. Jack pulls her to him and kisses her fiercely. 130 IN THE CROW'S NEST Fleet nudges Lee.
FLEET: Cor. look at that, would ya.
LEE: They're a bloody sight warmer than we are.
FLEET: Well if that's what it takes for us two to get warm, I'd rather not, if it's all the same. They both have a good laugh at that one. It is Fleet whose expression falls first. Glancing forward again, he does a double take. The color drains out of his face. FLEET'S POV: a massive iceberg right in their path, 500 yards out.
FLEET: Bugger me!! Fleet reaches past Lee and rings the lookout bell three times, then grabs the telephone, calling the bridge. He waits precious seconds for it to be picket up, never taking his eyes off the black mass ahead.
FLEET: Pick up, ya bastard.
MOODY: Yes. What do you see?
FLEET: Iceberg right ahead!
MOODY: ( hangs up, calls to Murdoch )
MURDOCH: Hard a' starboard.
MOODY: ( standing behind Hitchins )
BELL: Full astern! FULL ASTERN!! The engineers and greasers like madmen to close steam valves and start braking the mighty propeller shafts, big as Sequias, to a stop. 133 IN BOILER ROOM SIX, Leading Stoker FREDERICK BARRETT is standing with 2nd Engineer JAMES HESKETH when the red warning light and "STOP" indicator come on.
BARRETT: Shut all dampers! Shut 'em!! 134 FROM THE BRIDGE Murdoch watches the burg growing. straight ahead. The bow finally starts to come left ( since the ship turns the reverse of the helm setting ). MURDOCH'S jaw clenches as the bow turns with agonizing slowness. He holds his breath as the horrible physics play out. 135 IN THE CROW'S NEST Frederick Fleet braces himself. 136 THE BOW OF THE SHIP thunders right at CAMERA and KRUUUNCH!! The ship hits the berg on its starboard bow. 137 UNDERWATER we see the ice smashing in the steel hull plates. The iceberg bumps and scrapes along the side of the ship. Rivets pop as the steel plate of the hull flexes under the load. 138 IN #2 HOLD the two stewards stagger as the hull buckles in four feet with a sound like THUNDER. Like a sledgehammer beating along outside the ship, the berg splits the hull plates and the sea pour in, sweeping them off their feert. The icy water swirls around the Renault as the men scramble for the stairs. 139 ON G-DECK forward Fabrizio is tossed in his bunk by the impact. He hears a sound like the greatly amplified squeal of a skate on ice. 140 IN BOILER ROOM SIX Barret and Hesketh stagger as they hear the ROLLING THUNDER of the collision. They see the starboard side of the ship buckle in toward them and are almost swept off their feet by a rush of water coming in about two feet above the floor. 141 ON THE FORWARD WELL DECK Jack and Rose break their kiss and look up in astonishment as the berg sails past, blocking out the sky like a mountain. Fragments break off it and crash down onto the deck, and they have to jump back to avoid flying chunks of ice. 142 ON THE BRIDGE Murdoch rings the watertight door alarm. He quicky throws the switch that closes them.
MURDOCH: Hard a 'port! Judging the berg to be amidships, he is trying to clear the stern. 143 BARRETT AND HESKETH hear the DOOR ALARM and scramble through the swirling water to the watertight door between Boiler Rooms 6 and 5. The room is full of water vapor as the cold sea strikes the red hot furnaces. Barrett yells to the stokers scrambling through the door as it comes down like a slow guillotine.
BARRETT: Go Lads! Go! Go! He dives through into Boiler Room 5 just before the door rumbles down with a CLANG. 144 JACK AND ROSE rush to the starboard rail in time to see the berg moving aft down the side of the ship. 145 In his stateroom, surrounded by piles of plans while making notes in his ever-present book, Andrews looks up at the sound of a cut-crystal light fixture tinkling like a windchime. He feels the shudder run through the ship. And we see it in his face. Too much of his soul is in this great ship for him not to feel its mortal 146 IN THE FIRST CLASS SMOKING ROOM Gracie watches his highball vibrating on the table. 147 IN THE PALM COURT, with its high arched windows, Molly Brown holds up her drink to a passing waiter.
MOLLY: Hey, can I get some ice here, please? Silently, a moving wall of ice fills the window behind her. She doesn't see it. It disappears astern.
148 OMITTED: 149 IN THE CROW'S NEST Fleet turns to his Lee.
FLEET: Oy, mate. that was a close shave.
LEE: Smell ice, can you? Bleedin' Christ!
MURDOCH: ( stiffly, to Moody )
SMITH: What was that, Mr. Murdoch?
MURDOCH: An iceberg, sir. I put her hard a' starboard and run the engines full astern, but it was too close. I tried to port around it, but she hi. and
I: Close the emergency doors.
SMITH: Close the emergency doors.
MURDOCH: The doors are closed. Together they rush out onto the starboard wing, and Murdoch points. Smith looks into the darkness aft, then wheels around to FOURTH OFFICER BOHALL.
SMITH: Find the Carpenter and get him to sound the ship.
FABRIZIO: Ma che cazzo! 152 IN HIS STATEROOM Tommy gets out of his top bunk in the dark and drops down to the floor. SPLASH!!
TOMMMY: Cor!! What in hell?! He naps on the light. The floor is covered with 3 inches of freezing water, and more coming in. He pulls the door open, and steps out into the corridor, which is flooded. Fabrizio is running toward him, yelling something in Italian. Tommy and Fabrizio start pounding on doors, getting everybody up and out. The alarm spreads in several languages.
WOMAN: Why have the engines stopped? I felt a shudder?
STEWARD #1: I shouldn't worry, m'am. We've likely thrown a propeller blade, that's the shudder you felt. May I bring you anything? THOMAS ANDREWS brushes past them, walking fast and carrying an armload of rolled up ship's plans.
JACK: Looks okay. I don't see anything.
ROSE: Could it have damaged the ship?
JACK: It didn't seem like much of a bump. I'm sure we're okay. Behind them a couple of steerage guys are kicking the ice around the deck, 155 INT. STEERAGE FORWARD Fabrizio and Tommy are in a crowd of steerage men clogging the corridors, heading aft away from the flooding. Many of them have grabbed suitcases and duffel bags, some of which are soaked.
TOMMY: If this is the direction the rats were runnin', it's good enough for me.
STEWARD BARNES: There's no cause for alarm. Please, go back to your rooms. He is stopped in his tracks by Cal and Lovejoy.
STEWARD BARNES: Please, sir. There's no emergency
CAL: Yes there is, I have been robbed. Now get the Master at Arms. Now you 157 INT. BRIDGE / CHARTROOM C.U. CAPTAIN SMITH studying the commutator. He turns to Andrews, standing behind him.
SMITH: A five degree list in less than ten minutes. SHIP'S CARPENTER JOHN HUTCHINSON enters behind him, out of breath and clearly unnerved.
HUTCHINSON: She's making water fast. in the forepeak tank and the forward holds, in boiler room six. ISMAY enters, his movements quick with anger and frustration. Smith glances at him with annoyance.
ISMAY: Why have we stopped?
SMITH: We've struck ice.
ISMAY: Well, do you think the ship is seriously damaged?
SMITH: ( glaring )
BELL: That's it, lads. Get the hell up! They scramble up the escape ladders.
GENTLEMAN: I guess it's nothing too serious. I'm going back to my cabin to read. A 20ish YALE MAN pops through the door wearing a topcoat over pajamas.
YALEY: Say, did I miss the fun? Rose and Jack come up the steps from the well deck, which are right next to the three men. They stare as the couple climbs over the locked gate. A moment later Captain Smith rounds the corner, followed by Andrews and Carpenter Hutchinson. They have come down from the bridge by the outside stairs. The three men, their faces grim, crush right past Jack and Rose. Andrews barely glances at her.
SMITH: Can you shore up?
HUTCHINSON: Not unless the pumps get ahead. The inspection party goes down the stairs to the well deck.
JACK: ( low, to her )
ROSE: We have to tell Mother and Cal.
JACK: Now it's worse.
ROSE: Come with me, Jack. I jump, you jump. Right?
JACK: Jack follows Rose through the door inside the ship.
LOVEJOY: We've been looking for you miss. Lovejoy follows and, unseen, moves close behind Jack and smoothly slips the diamond necklace into the pocket of his overcoat.
ROSE: Something serious has happened.
CAL: That's right. Two things dear to me have disappeared this evening. Now that one is back. . I have a pretty good idea where to fine the other. Search him. The Master at Arms steps up to Jack.
JACK: This is horseshit.
ROSE: Cal, you can't be serious! We're in the middle of an emergency and you Steward Barnes pulls the Heart of the Ocean out of the pocket of Jack's Is this it? Rose is stunned. Needless to say, so is Jack.
STEWARD BARNES: Is this it? Rose is stunned. Needless to say, so is Jack.
CAL: That's it.
JACK: Don't you believe it, Rose. Don't!
ROSE: ( uncertain )
CAL: Of course he could. Easy enough for a professional. He memorized the combination when you opend the safe. FLASHBACK: Rose at the safe, looking in the mirror and meeting Jack's eyes as he stands behind her, watching.
ROSE: But I was with him the whole time.
CAL: ( just to her, low and cold )
JACK: They put it in my pocket!
LOVEJOY: ( holding Jack's coat )
JACK: I was going to return it! Rose Rose feels utterly betrayed, hurt and confused. She shrinks away from him. He starts shouting to her as Lovejoy and the Master at Arms drag him out into the hall. She can't look him in the eye.
JACK: Rose, don't listen to them. I didn't do this! You know I didn't! You know She is devastated. Her mother lays a comforting hand on her shoulder as te tears well up.
RUTH: Why do women believe men?
ISMAY: When can we get underway, do you think? Smith glares at him and turns his attention to Andrews' drawing. The builder points to it for emphasis as he talks.
ANDREWS: Water 14 feet above the keel in ten minutes. in the forepeak. in all three holds. and in boiler room six.
SMITH: That's right.
ANDREWS: Five compartments. She can stay afloat with the first four compartments breached. But not five. Not five. As she goes down by the head the water will spill over the tops of the bulkheads. at E Deck. from one to the next. back and back. There's no stopping it.
SMITH: The pumps
ANDREWS: The pumps buy you time. but minutes only. From this moment, no matter what we do, Titanic will founder.
ISMAY: But this ship can't sink!
ANDREWS: She is made of iron, sir. I assure you, she can. And she will. It is a mathematical certainty. Smith looks like he has been gutpunched.
SMITH: How much time?
ANDREWS: An hour, two at most. Ismay reels as his dream turns into his worst nightmare.
SMITH: And how many aboard, Mr. Murdoch?
MURDOCH: Two thousand two hundred souls aboard, sir. A long beat. Smith turns to his employer.
SMITH: I believe you may get your headlines, Mr. Ismay.
ANDREWS: Turn to the right! Pull the falls taut before you unchock. Have you never had a boat drill?
SEAMAN: No sir! Not with these new davits, sir. He looks around, disguisted as the crew fumble with the davits, and the tackle for the "falls". the ropes which are used to lower the boats. A few passengers are coming out on deck, hesitantly in the noise and bitter 165 INT. ROSE AND CAL'S SUITE From inside the sitting room they can hear knocking and voices in the I had better go dress. Ruth exits and Hockley crosses to Rose. He regards her coldly for a moment, then SLAPS her across the face.
RUTH: I had better go dress. Ruth exits and Hockley crosses to Rose. He regards her coldly for a moment, then SLAPS her across the face.
CAL: It is a little slut, isn't it? To Rose the blow is inconsequential compared to the blow her heart has been given. Cal grabs her shoulders roughly.
CAL: Look at me, you little There is a loud knock on the door and an urgent voice. The door opens and their steward puts his head in.
STEWARD BARNES: Sir, I've been told to ask you to please put on your lifebelt, and come up to the boat deck.
CAL: Get out. We're busy. The steward persists, coming in to get the lifebelts down from the top of a I'm sorry about the inconvenience, Mr. Hockley, but it's Captain's orders. Please dress warmly, it's quite cold tonight. Not to worry, miss, I'm sure it's just a precaution.
STEWARD: I'm sorry about the inconvenience, Mr. Hockley, but it's Captain's orders. Please dress warmly, it's quite cold tonight. Not to worry, miss, I'm sure it's just a precaution.
CAL: This is ridiculous. In the corridor outside the stewards are being so polite and obsequious they are conveying no sense of danger whatsoever. However, it's another story in.
STEWARD #2: Everybody up. Let's go. Put your lifebelts on. IN THE CORRIDOR outside, another steward is going from door to door along the hall, pouncing and yelling.
STEWARD #2: Lifebelts on. Lifebelts on. Everybody up, come on. Lifebelts on. People come out of the doors behind the steward, perplexed. In the foreground a SYRIAN WOMAN asks her husband what was said. He shrugs.
PHILLIPS: CQD, sir?
SMITH: That's right. The distress call. CQD. Tell whoever responds that we are going down by the head and need immediate assistance. Smith hurries out.
PHILLIPS: Maybe you ought to try that new distress call. S.O.S. It may be our only chance to use it. Phillips laughs in spite of himself and starts sending history's first S.O.S. Dit dit dit, da da da, dit dit dit. over and over.
BRIDE: Maybe you ought to try that new distress call. S.O.S. It may be our only chance to use it. Phillips laughs in spite of himself and starts sending history's first S.O.S. Dit dit dit, da da da, dit dit dit. over and over.
ANDREWS: Where are all the passengers?
MURDOCH: They've all gone back inside. Too damn cold and noisy for them. Andrews feels like he is in a bad dream. He looks at his pocketwatch and heads for the foyer entrance.
MOLLY: What's doing, sonny? You've got us all trussed up and now we're cooling our The young steward backs away, actually stumbling on the stairs.
YOUNG STEWARD: Sorry, mum. Let me go and find out. The jumpy piano rhythm of "Alexander's Ragtime Band" comes out of the first class lounge a few yards away. Band leader WALLACE HARTLEY has assembled some of his men on Captain's orders, to allay panic. Hockley's entourage comes up to the A-deck foyer. Cal is carrying the lifebelts, almost as an afterthought. Rose is like a sleepwalker.
CAL: It's just the God damned English doing everything by the book.
RUTH: There's no need for language, Mr. Hockley. Go back and turn the heater on in my room, so it won't be too cold when we get back. Thomas Andrews enters, looking around the magnificent room, which he knows is doomed. Rose, standing nearby, sees his heartbroken expression. She walks over to him and Cal goes after her.
ROSE: I saw the iceberg, Mr. Andrews. And I see it in your eyes. Please tell me the truth.
ANDREWS: The ship will sink.
ROSE: You're certain?
ANDREWS: Yes. In an hour or so. all this. will be at the bottom of the Atlantic.
CAL: My God. Now it is Cal's turn to look stunned. The Titanic? Sinking?
ANDREWS: Please tell only who you must, I don't want to be responsible for a panic. And get to a boat quickly. Don't wait. You remember what I told you about the boats?
ROSE: Yes, I understand. Thankyou. Andrews goes off, moving among the passengers and urging them to put on their lifebelts and get to the boats.
CREWMAN: You're wanted by the Purser, sir. Urgently.
LOVEJOY: Go on. I'll keep an eye on him. Lovejoy pulls a pearl handled Colt .45 automatic from under his coat. The Master at Arms nods and tosses the handcuff key to Lovejoy, then exits with the crewman. Lovejoy flips the key in the air. Catches it.
BRIDE: Carpathia says they're making 17 knots, full steam for them, sir.
SMITH: And she's the only one who's responding?
BRIDE: The only one close, sir. She says they can be here in four hours.
SMITH: Four hours! The enormity of it hits Smith like a sledgehammer blow.
SMITH: Thank you, Bride. He turns as Bride exits, and looks out onto the blackness.
SMITH: ( to himself )
LIGHTOLLER: Hadn't we better get the women and children into the boats, sir? Smith just nods, a bit abstractly. The fire has gone out of him. Lightoller sees the awesome truth in Smith's face.
LIGHTOLLER: ( to the men )
HARTLEY: Number 26. Ready and The band has reassembled just outside the First Class Entrance, port side, near where Lightoller is calling for the boats to be loaded. They strike up a waltz, lively and elegant. The music wafts all over the ship.
LIGHTOLLER: Ladies, please. Step into the boat. Finally one soman steps across the gap, into the boat, terrified of the drop to the water far below.
RUTH: My brooch, I left my brooch. I must have it! She turns back to go to her room but Cal takes her by the arm, refusing to let her go. The firmness of his hold surprises her.
CAL: Stay here, Ruth. Ruth sees his expression, and knows fear for the first time.
STEWARD #2: ( to Steward #3 )
STEWARD: Stay calm, please. It's not time to go up to the boats yet. Near Tommy, an IRISHWOMAN stands stoically with two small children and their battered luggage.
LITTLE BOY: What are we doing, mummy?
WOMAN: We're just waiting, dear. When they fiish putting First Class people in the boats, they'll be startin' with us, and we'll want to be all ready, won't 174 EXT. STARBOARD SIDE Boat 7 is less than half full, with 28 aboard a boat made for 65.
LOVEJOY: You know. I believe this ship may sink. I've been asked to give you this small token of our appreciation. He punches Jack hard in the stomach, knocking the wind out of him.
LOVEJOY: Compliments of Mr. Caledon Hockley. Lovejoy flips the handcuff key in the air, catches it and puts it in his pocket. He exits. Jack is left gasping, handcuffed to the pipe.
ISMAY: There is no time to waste! Lower away! Lower away! Lower away! FIFTH OFFICER LOWE, a baby-faced 28, and the youngest officer, looks up from the tangled falls at the madman.
LOWE: Get out of the way, you fool!
ISMAY: Do you know who I am? Lowe, not having a clue nor caring, squares up to Ismay.
LOWE: You're a passenger. And I'm a ship's bloody officer. Now do what you're Steady men! Stand by the falls!
ISMAY: ( numbly, backing away )
LIGHTOLLER: Women and children only! Sorry sir, no men yet. Another rocket bursts overhead, lighting the crowd. Startled faces turn upward. Fear now in the eyes. DANIEL MARVIN has his Biograph camera set up, cranking away. hoping to get an exposure off the rocket's light. he has Mary posed in front of the scene at the boats.
MARVIN: You're afraid, darling. Scared to death. That's it! Either she suddenly learned to act or she is petrified. ROSE watches the farewells taking pace right in front of her as they step closer to the boat. Husbands saying goodbye to wives and children. Lovers and friends parted. Nearby MOLLY is getting a reluctant woman to board the Come on, you heard the man. Get in the boat, sister.
MOLLY: Come on, you heard the man. Get in the boat, sister.
RUTH: Will the lifeboats be seated according to class? I hope they're not too Oh, Mother shut up! Don't you understand? The water is freezing and there aren't enough boats. not enough by half. Half the people on this ship are going to die.
ROSE: Oh, Mother shut up! Don't you understand? The water is freezing and there aren't enough boats. not enough by half. Half the people on this ship are going to die.
CAL: Not the better half. PUSH IN ON ROSE'S FACE as it hits her like a thunderbolt. Jack is third class. He doesn't stand a chance. Another rocket bursts overhead, bathing her face in white light.
ROSE: You unimaginable bastard.
MOLLY: Come on, Ruth, get in the boat. These are the first class seats right up here. That's it. Molly practically hands her over to Lightoller, then looks around for some other women who might need a push.
MOLLY: Come on, Rose. You're next, darlin'. Rose steps back, shaking her head.
RUTH: Rose, get in the boat!
ROSE: Goodbye, mother. Ruth, standing in the tippy lifeboat, can do nothing. Cal grabs Rose's arm but she pulls free and walks away through the crowd. Cal catches up to Rose and grabs her again, roughly.
CAL: Where are you going? To him? Is that it? To be a whore to that gutter rat?
ROSE: I'd rather be his whore than your wife. He clenches his jaw and squeezes her arm viciously, pulling her back toward the lifeboat. Rose pulls out a hairpin and jabs him with it. he lets go with a curse and she runs into the crowd.
LIGHTOLLER: Lower away!!
RUTH: Rose! ROSE!!
MOLLY: Stuff a sock in it, would ya, Ruth. She'll be along. The boat lurches downward as the falls are paid out. TRACKING WITH ROSE, as she runs through the clusters of people. She looks back and a furious Cal is coming after her. She runs breathlessly up to two proper looking men.
ROSE: That man tried to take advantage of me in the crowd! Appalled, they turn to see Cal running toward them. Rose runs on as the two men grab Cal, restraining him. She runs throught the First Class entrance. Cal breaks free and runs after her. He reaches the entrance, but runs into a knot of people coming out. He pushes rudely through them.
HITCHINS: Keep pulling. away from the ship. Pull.
MOLLY: Ain't you boys ever rowed before? Here, gimme those oars. I'll show ya how it's done. She climbs over Ruth to get at the oars, stepping on her feet. Around them the evacuation is in full swing, with boats in the water, others being lowered.
JACK: He tries to pull one hand out of the cuffs, working until the skin is raw. no good.
JACK: Help!! Somebody!! Can anybody hear me?! This could be bad. 181 THE CORRIDOR outside is deserted. Flooded a couple of inches deep. Jack's voice comes faintly through the door, but there is no one to hear 182 INT. FIRST CLASS CORRIDOR Thomas Andrews is opening stateroom doors, checking that people are out.
ANDREWS: Anyone in here? Rose runs up to him, breathless.
ROSE: Mr. Andrews, thank God! Where would the Master at Arms take someone under What? You have to get to a boat right away!
ANDREWS: What? You have to get to a boat right away!
ROSE: No! I'll do this with or without your help, sir. But without will take Take the elevator to the very bottom, go left, down the crewman's passage, then make a right.
ANDREWS: ( beat )
ROSE: Bottom, left, right. I have it.
ANDREWS: Hurry, Rose.
OPERATOR: Sorry, miss, lifts are closed Without thinking she grabs him and shoves him back into the lift.
ROSE: I'm through with being polite, goddamnit!! I may never be polite the rest of my life! Now take me down!! The operator fumbles to close the gate and start the lift.
MOLLY: Come on girls, join in, it'll keep ya warm. Let's go Ruth. Grab an oar! Ruth just stares at the spectacle of the great liner, its rows of lights blazing, slanting down into the sullen black mirror of the Atlanic.
ROSE: Left, crew passage. She spots it and slogs down the flooded corridor. The place is understandably deserted. She is on her own.
ROSE: Right, right. right. She turns into a cross-corridor, splashing down the hall. A row of doors on each side.
ROSE: Jack? Jaaacckk??
JACK: ROSE!! In here! 187 IN THE HALL Rose hears his voice behind her. She spins and runs back, locating the right door, then pushes it open, creating a small wave. She splashes over Jack and puts her arms around him.
ROSE: Jack, Jack, Jack. I'm sorry, I'm so sorry. They are so happy to see each other it's embarrassing.
JACK: That guy Lovejoy put it in my pocket.
ROSE: I know, I know.
JACK: See if you can find a key for these. Try those drawers. It's a little brass She kisses his face and hugs him again, then starts to go through the desk.
JACK: So. how did you find out I didn't do it?
ROSE: I didn't. I just realized I already knew. They share a look, then she goes back to ransacking the room, searching drawers and cupboards. Jack sees movement out the porthole and looks out. A LIFEBOAT hits the surface of the water, seen from below.
LUCILE: I despise small boats. I just know I'm going to be seasick. I always get seasick in small boats. Good Heavens, there's a man down there. In a lit porthole beneath the surface she sees Jack looking up at her. a face in a bubble of light under the water.
ROSE: There's no key in here. They look around at the water, now almost two feet deep. Jack has pulled his feet up onto the bench.
JACK: You have to go for help.
ROSE: ( nodding )
JACK: I'll wait here. She runs out, looking back at him once from the doorway, then splashes away. Jack looks down at the swirling water.
ROSE: Hello? Somebody?! She turns a corner and runs along another corridor in a daze. The hall slopes down into water which, shimmers, reflecting the light. The margin of the water creeps toward her. A YOUNG MAN appears, running through the water, sending up geysers of spray. He pelts past her without slowing, his eyes crazed.
ROSE: Help me! We need help! He doesn't look back. It is like a bad dream. The hull gongs with terrifying sounds. The lights flicker and go out, leaving utter darkness. A beat. Then they come back on. She finds herself hyperventilating. That one moment of blackness was the most terrifying of her life. A STEWARD runs around the nearest corner, his arms full of lifebelts. He is upset to see someone still in his section. He grabs her forcefully by the arm, pulling her with him like a wayward child.
STEWARD: Come on, then, let's get you topside, miss, that's right.
ROSE: Wait. Wait! I need your help! There's
STEWARD: No need for panic, miss. Come along!
ROSE: No, let me go! You're going the wrong way! He's not listening. And he won't let her go. She SHOUTS in his ear, and when he turns, she punches him squarely in the nose. Shocked, he lets her go and staggers back.
STEWARD: To Hell with you!
ROSE: See you there, buster! The steward runs off, holding his bloody nose. She spits after him. Just the way Jack taugh: her. She turns around, SEES: a glass case with a fire-axe in it. She breaks the glass with a battered suitcase which is lying discarded nearby, and seizes the axe, running back the way she came. 192 AT THE STAIRWELL she looks down and gasps. The water has flooded the bottom five steps. She goes down and has to crouch to look along the corridor to the room where Jack is trapped. Rose plunges into the water, which is up to her waist. and powers forward, holding the axe above her head in two hands. She grimaces at the pain from the literally freezing water.
ROSE: Will this work?
JACK: We'll find out. They are both terrified, but trying to keep panic at bay. He positions the chain connecting the two cuffs, stretching it taut across the steel pipe. The chain is of course very short, and his exposed wrists are on either side of it.
JACK: Try a couple practice swings. Rose hefts the axe and thunks it into a wooden cabinet.
JACK: Now try to hit the same mark again. She swings hard and the blade thunks in four inches from the mark.
JACK: Okay, that's enough practice. He winces, bracing himself as she raises the axe. She has to hit a target about an inch wide with all the foce she can muster, with his hands on either side.
JACK: ( sounding calm )
JACK: Nice work, there, Paul Bunyan. He climbs down into the water next to her. He can't breathe for a second.
JACK: Shit! Excuse my French. Ow ow ow, that is cold! Come on, let's go. They wade out into the hall. Rose starts toward the stiars going up, but Jack stops her. There is only about a foot of the stairwell opening Too deep. We gotta find another way out.
JACK: Too deep. We gotta find another way out.
MOLLY: Now there's somethin' you don't see every day.
STEWARD: Here you! You'll have to pay for that, you know. That's White Star Line Jack leads her past the dumbfounded steward. They join the steerage stragglers going aft. In places the corridor is almost completely blocked by large families carrying all their luggage. AN IRISH WOMAN gives Rose a blanket, more for modesty than because she is blue-lipped and shivering.
IRISHWOMAN: Here, lass, cover yerself. Jack rubs her arms and tries to warm her up as they walk along. The woman's husband offers them a flask of whiskey.
IRISHMAN: This'll take the chill off. Rose takes a mighty belt and hands it to Jack. He grins and follows suit. Jack tries a number of DOORS and IRON GATES along the way, finding them all 197 EXT. BOAT DECK ON THE BOAT DECK, the action has moved to the aft group of boats, numbers 9, 11, 13 and 15 on the starboard side, and 10, 12, 14 and 16 on the port side. The pace of work is more frantic. You see crew and officers running now to work the davits, their previous complacency gone. CAL pushes through the crowd, scanning for Rose. Around him is chaos and confusion. A woman is calling for a child who has become seperated from the crowd. A man is shouting over people's heads. A woman takes hold of Second Officer Lightoller's arm as he is about to launch Boat 10.
WOMAN: Will you hold the boat a moment? I have to run back to my room for Lightoller grabs her and shoves her bodily into the boat. Thomas Andrews rushes up to him just then.
ANDREWS: Why are the boats being launched half full?! Lightoller steps past him, helping a seaman clear a snarled fall.
LIGHTOLLER: Not now, Mr. Andrews.
ANDREWS: ( pointing down at the water )
LIGHTOLLER: Well. we were not sure of the weight
ANDREWS: Rubbish! They were tested in Belfast with the weight of 70 men. Now fill these boats, Mr. Lightoller. For God's sake, man! The shot HANDS OFF to Cal, who sees Lovejoy hurrying toward him through the aisle connecting the port and starboard sides of the boat deck.
LOVEJOY: She's not on the starboard side either.
CAL: We're running out of time. And this strutting martinet. .isn't letting any men in at all.
LOVEJOY: The one on the other side is letting men in.
CAL: Then that's our play. But we're still going to need some insurance. Come on. Cal charges off, heading forward, followed by Lovejoy. The SHOT HANDS OFF to a finely dressed elderly couple, IDA and ISADOR STRAUSS.
ISADOR: Please, Ida, get into the boat.
IDA: No. We've been together for forty years, and where
LIGHTOLLER: Lower away!!
199 OMITTED: 200 OMITTED 201 INT. E-DECK CORRIDORS AND STAIRWELL Fabrizio, standing with Helga Dahl and her family, hears Jack's voice.
200 OMITTED: 201 INT. E-DECK CORRIDORS AND STAIRWELL Fabrizio, standing with Helga Dahl and her family, hears Jack's voice.
JACK: Fabrizio! Fabri! Fabrizio turns and sees Jack and Rose pushing through the crowd. He and Jack hug like brothers.
FABRIZIO: The boats are all going.
JACK: We gotta get up there or we're gonna be gargling saltwater. Where's Tommy? Fabrizio points over the heads of the solidly packed crowd to the Tommy has his hands on the bars of the steel gate which blocks the head of the stairwell. The crew open the gate a foot or so and a few women are squeezing through.
STEWARD #2: Women only. No men. No men!! But some terrified men, not understanding English, try to rush through the gap, forcing the gate open. The crewmen and stewards push them back, shoving and punching them.
STEWARD #2: Get back! Get back you lot! Lock it!! They struggle to get the gate closed again, while Steward #2 brandishes a small revolver. Another holds a fire axe. They lock the gate, and a cry goes up among the crowd, who surge forward, pounding against the steel and shouting in several languages.
TOMMY: For the love of God, man, there are children down here! Let us up, so we can have a chance! But the crewmen are scared now. They have let the situation get out of hand, and now they have a mob. Tommy gives up and pushes his way back through the crowd, going down the stairs. He rejoins Jack, Rose and It's hopeless that way.
TOMMY: It's hopeless that way.
JACK: Well, whatever we're goin' to do, we better do it fast. Fabrizio turns to Helga, praying he can make himself understood.
FABRIZIO: ( with a lot of hand gestures )
FABRIZIO: Helga. per favore. please. come with me, I am lucky. Is my destiny to go to America. She kisses him, then steps back to be with her family. Jack lays a hand on his shoulder, his eyes saying "Let's go".
FABRIZIO: I will never forget you. He turns to Jack, who leads the way out of the crowd. Looking back Fabrizio sees her face disappear into the crowd.
202 OMITTED: 203 OMITTED 204 INT. CAL AND ROSE'S SUITE CLUNK! Cal opens his safe and reaches inside. As Lovejoy watches, he pulls out two stacks of bills, still banded by bank wrappers. Then he takes out "Heart of the Ocean", putting it in the pocket of his overcoat, and locks the safe.
203 OMITTED: 204 INT. CAL AND ROSE'S SUITE CLUNK! Cal opens his safe and reaches inside. As Lovejoy watches, he pulls out two stacks of bills, still banded by bank wrappers. Then he takes out "Heart of the Ocean", putting it in the pocket of his overcoat, and locks the safe.
CAL: ( holding up stacks of bills )
LOVEJOY: ( putting the .45 in his waistband )
STEWARD: Go to the main stairwell, with everyone else. It'll all get sorted out Jack takes one look at this scene and finally just loses it.
JACK: God damn it to Hell son of a bitch!! He grabs one end of a bench bolted to the floor on the landing. He starts pulling on it, and Tommy and Fabrizio pitch in until the bolts shear and it breaks free. Rose figures out what they are doing and clears a path up the stairs between the waiting people.
ROSE: Move aside! Quickly, move aside! Jack and Tommy run up the steps with the bench and RAM IT INTO THE GATE with all their strength. It rips loose from its track and falls outward, narrowly mssing the steward. Led by Jack, the crowd surges though. Rose steps up to the cowering steward and says in her most imperious tone:
ROSE: If you have any intention of keeping your pathetic job
SMITH: Come back! Come back to the ship! CHIEF OFFICER WILDE joins him, blowing his silver whistle. 208 FROM BOAT 6 the whistle comes shrilly across the water. Quartermaster Hitchins grips the rudder in fear.
HITCHINS: The suction will pull us right down if we don't keep going.
MOLLY: We got room for lots more. I say we go back.
HITCHINS: No! It's our lives now, not theirs. And I'm in charge of this boat! Now 209 CAPTAIN SMITH, at the rail of the boat deck, lowers his megaphone The fools.
SMITH: The fools.
CAL: Ben, what's the occasion?
GUGGENHEIM: We have dressed in our best and are prepared to go down like gentlemen.
CAL: That's admirable, Ben. I'll sure and tell your wife. when I get to New York.
CARDPLAYER: It seems we've been dealt a bad hand this time.
LIGHTOLLER: Get back! Keep order! The men back down. Fifth Officer Lowe standing in the boat, yells to the Lower away left and right! Lightoller turns away from the crowd and, out of their sight, breaks his pistol open. Letting out a long breath, he starts to LOAD IT.
LOWE: Lower away left and right! Lightoller turns away from the crowd and, out of their sight, breaks his pistol open. Letting out a long breath, he starts to LOAD IT.
CAL: We're too late.
LOVEJOY: There are still some boats forward. Stay with this one. Murdoch. He seems to be quite. practical. 215 IN THE WATER BELOW there is another panic. Boat 13, already in the water but still attached to its falls, is pushed aft by the discharge water being pumped out of the ship. It winds up directly under boat 15, which is coming downt he right on top of it. The passengers shout in panic to the crew above to stop lowering. They are ignored. Some men put their hands up, trying futilely to keep the 5 tons of boat 15 from crushing them. Fred Barrett, the stoker, gets out his knife and leaps to the after falls, climbing rudely over people. He cuts the aft falls while another crewman cuts the forward lines. 13 drifts out from beneath 15 just seconds before it touches the water with a slap. Cal, looking down from the rail hears GUNSHOTS
LOWE: Stay back you lot!
BLAM! BLAM!: CUT TO:
CAL: It's starting to fall apart. We don't have much time. Cal sees three dogs run by, including the black French bulldog. Someone has released the pets from the kennels. Cal sees Murdoch turn from the davits of boat 15 and start walking toward the bow. He catches up and falls in beside him.
CAL: Mr. Murdoch, I'm a businessman, as you know, and I have a business proposition for you.
218 OMITTED: 219 EXT. BOAT DECK, PORT Jack, Rose et al burst out onto the boat deck from the crew stairs just aft of the third funnel. They look at the empty davits.
ROSE: The boats are gone! She sees Colonel Gracie chugging forward along the deck, escorting two first class ladies.
ROSE: Colonel! Are there any boats left?
GRACIE: ( staring at her bedraggled state )
TOMMY: Music to drown by. Now I know I'm in First Class.
CAL: So we have an understanding then?
MURDOCH: ( nodding curtly )
LOVEJOY: I've found her. She's just over on the port side. With him.
MURDOCH: Women and children? Any more women and children? Any one else, then? Cal looks longingly at his boat. his moment has arrived.
CAL: God damn it to hell! Come on. He and Lovejoy head for the port side, taking a short-cut through the Bruce Ismay, seeing his oppurtunity, steps quickly into Collapsible C. He stares straight ahead, not meeting Murdoch's eyes.
MURDOCH: ( staring at Ismay )
LIGHTOLLER: Women and children, please. Women and children only. Step back, sir. Even with Jack's arms wrapped around her, Rose is shivering in the cold. Near her a WOMAN with TWO YOUNG DAUGHTERS looks into the eyes of a HUSBAND she knows she may not see again
HUSBAND: Goodbye for a little while. only for a little while. Go with mummy. The woman stumbles to the boat with the children, hiding her tears from them. Beneath the false good cheer, the man is choked with emotion.
HUSBAND: Hold mummy's hand and be a good girl. That's right. Some of the women are stoic, others are overwhelmed by emotion and have to be helped into the boats. A MAN scribbles a note and hands it to a woman who is about to board.
MAN: Please get this to my wife in DeMoines, Iowa. Jack looks at Tommy and Fabrizio.
JACK: You better check out the other side. They nod and run off, searching for a way around the deckhouse.
ROSE: I'm not going without you.
JACK: Get in the boat, Rose. Cal walks up just then.
CAL: Yes. Get in the boat, Rose. She is shocked to see him. She steps instinctively to Jack. Cal looks at her, standing there shivering in her wet slip and stockings, a shocking display in 1912.
CAL: My God, look at you. Here, put this on. She numbly shrugs into it. He is doing it for modesty, not the cold.
LIGHTOLLER: Quickly, ladies. Step into the boat. Hurry, please!
JACK: Go on. I'll get the next one.
ROSE: No. Not without you! She doesn't even care that Cal is standing right there. He sees the emotion between Jack and Rose and his jaw clenches. But then he leans close to her and says.
CAL: ( low )
JACK: ( he smiles reassuringly )
CAL: Get in. hurry up, it's almost full. Lightoller grabs her arm and pulls her toward the boat. She reaches out for Jack and her fingers brush his for a moment. Then she finds herself stepping down into the boat. It's all a rush and blur.
LIGHTOLLER: Lower away! The two men watch at the rail as the boat begins to descend.
CAL: ( low )
JACK: Almost as good as you.
CAL: I always win, Jack. One way or another. Pity I didn't keep that drawing. It's going to be worth a lot more by Jack knows he is screwed. He looks down at Rose, not wanting to waste a second of his last view of her. 222 ROSE'S PERCEPTION. IN SLOW MOTION: The ropes going through the pulleys as the seamen start to lower. All sound going away. Lightoller giving orders, his lips moving. but Rose hears only the blood pounding in her ears. this cannot be happening. a rocket bursts above in slow-motion, outlining Jack in a halo of light. Rose's hair blowing in slow motion as she gazes up at him, descending away from him. she sees his hand trembling, the tears at the corners of his eyes, and cannot believe the unbearable pain she is feeling. Rose is still staring up, tears pouring down her face. SUDDENLY SHE IS MOVING. She lunges across the women next to her. Reaches the gunwale, climbing it. Hurls herself out of the boat to the rail of the A-Deck promenade, catching it, and scrambling over the rail. The Boat 2 continues down. But Rose is back on Titanic.
JACK: No Rose! NOOOO!! Jack spins from the rail, running for the nearest way down to A-Deck. Hockley too has seen her jump. She is willing to die for this man, this gutter scum. He is overwhelmed by a rage so all consuming it eclipses all 223 INT. GRAND STAIRCASE TRACKING WITH JACK as he bangs through the doors to the foyer and sprints down the stairs. He sees her coming into A-deck foyer, running toward him, Cal's long coat flying out behind her as she runs. They meet at the bottom of the stairs, and collide in an embrace.
JACK: Rose, Rose, you're so stupid, you're such an idiot And all the while he's kissing her and holding her as tight as he can.
ROSE: You jump, I jump, right?
JACK: Hockley comes in and runs to the railing. Looking down he sees them locked in their embrace. Lovejoy comes up behind Cal and puts a restraining HAND on him, but Cal whips around, grabbing the pistol from Lovejoy's waistband in one cobra-fast move. He RUNS along the rail and down the stairs. As he reaches the landing above them he raises the gun. SCREAMING in rage, he FIRES. The carved cherub at the foot of the center railing EXPLODES. Jack pulls Rose toward the stairs going down to the next deck. Cal fires again, running down the steps toward them. A bullet blows a divet out of the oak panelling behind Jack's head as he pulls Rose down the next flight of Hockley steps on the skittering head of the cherub statue and goes sprawling. The gun clatters across the marble floor. He gets up, and reeling drunkenly goes over to retrieve it.
CAL: ( calling to them )
LOVEJOY: What could possible be funny?
CAL: I put the diamond in my coat pocket. And I put my coat. on her. He turns to Lovejoy with a sickly expression, his eyes glittering.
CAL: I give it to you. if you can get it. He hands Lovejoy the pistol and goes back up the stairs. Lovejoy thinks about it. then slogs into the water. The icewater is up to his waist as he crosses the pool into the dining saloon.
JACK: ( whispering )
JACK: Compliments of the Chippewa Falls Dawsons. He grabs Lovejoy and slams him into an ornate columb. Lovejoy drops to the floor with a splas, stunned.
JACK: Let's go. Jack and Rose run aft. uphill. entering the galley. Behind them the tables have become islands in a lake. and the far end of the room is flooded up to the ceiling. Lovejoy gets up and looks around for his gun. He pulls it up out of the water and wades after them.
ROSE: We can't leave him. Jack nods and they leave the promise of escape up the stairwell to run to the child. Jack scoops up the kid and they run back to the stairs but A torrent of water comes pouring down the stairs like rapids. In seconds it is too powerful for them to go against.
JACK: Come on. Charging the other way down the flooding corridor, they blast up spray with each footstep. At the end of the hall are heavy double doors. As Jack approaches them he sees water spraying through the gap between the doors right up to the ceiling. The doors groan and start to crack under the tons of pressure.
JACK: Back! Go back!! Rose pivots and runs back the way they came, taking a turn into a cross-corridor. A MAN is coming the other way. He sees the boy in Jack's arms and cries out, grabbing him away from Jack. Starts cursing him in Russian. He runs on with the boy
ROSE: No! Not that way! Come back! 228 DOUBLE DOORS BLAST OPEN. A wall of water thunders into the corridor. The father and child DISAPPEAR instantly. Jack and Rose run as a wave blasts around the corner, foaming from floor to ceiling. It gains on them like a locomotive. They make it to a stairway going up.
JACK: Wait! Wait! Help us! Unlock the gate. The steward runs on. The water wells up around Jack and Rose, pouring through the gate and slamming them against it. In seconds it is up to their Help us! Please! The steward stops and looks back. He sees Jack and Rose at the gate, their arms raching through. sees the water POURING through the gate onto the Fucking 'ell! He runs back, slogging against the curretn. He pulls a key ring from his belt and struggles to unlock the padlock as the water fountains up around The lights short out and the landing is plunged into darkness. The water rises over the lock and he's doing it by feel.
ROSE: Help us! Please! The steward stops and looks back. He sees Jack and Rose at the gate, their arms raching through. sees the water POURING through the gate onto the Fucking 'ell! He runs back, slogging against the curretn. He pulls a key ring from his belt and struggles to unlock the padlock as the water fountains up around The lights short out and the landing is plunged into darkness. The water rises over the lock and he's doing it by feel.
STEWARD: Fucking 'ell! He runs back, slogging against the curretn. He pulls a key ring from his belt and struggles to unlock the padlock as the water fountains up around The lights short out and the landing is plunged into darkness. The water rises over the lock and he's doing it by feel.
JACK: Come on! Come on! Jack and Rose are right up against the ceiling. Suddenly the gate gives and SWINGS OPEN. They are pushing through by the force of the water. They make it to stairs on the other side of the landing and follow the steward up to the next deck.
LIGHTOLLER: Hold it! Hold it! The weight of the boat snaps the oars and it crashes to the deck, upside down. The two Swedish cousins, OLAUS and BJORN GUNERSEN, jump back as the boat nearly hits them.
232 OMITTED: 233 INT. STAIRWELL Jack and Rose run up seemingly endless stairs as the ship groans and torgues around them.
TOMMY: Give us a chance to live, you limey bastards! Murdoch fires his Webley twice in the air, then point it at the crowd.
MURDOCH: I'll shoot any man who tries to get past me. Cal steps up to him.
CAL: We had a deal, damn you. Murdoch pushes him back, pointing the pistol at Cal.
MURDOCH: Get back! A man next to Tommy rushes forward, and Tommy is shoved from behind. Murdoch SHOOTS the first man, and seeing Tommy coming forward, puts a bullet into his chest. Tommy collapses, and Fabrizio grabs him, holding him in his arms as his life flows out over the deck. Murdoch turns to his men and salutes smartly. Then he puts the pistol to his temple and. BLAM! He drops like a puppet with the strings cut and topples over the edge of the boat deck into the water only a few feet Cal stares in horror at Murdoch's body bobbing in the black water. The MONEY FLOATS out of the pocket of his greatcoat, the bills spreading across the surface. The crew rush to get the last few women aboart the boat.
PURSER MCELROY: ( calling above the confusion )
CAL: ( forcing his way through the crowd )
CAL: There, there.
ROSE: Won't you even make a try for it, Mr. Andrews?
ANDREWS: ( a tear rolls down his cheek )
JACK: ( to her )
ANDREWS: Good luck to you, Rose.
ROSE: ( hugging him )
HARTLEY: Right, that's it then. They leave him, walking forward along the deck. Hartley puts his violin to his chin and bows the first notes of "Nearer My God to Thee". One by one the band memebers turn, hearing the lonely melody. Without a word they walk back and take their places. They join in with Hartley, filling out the sound so that it reaches all over the ship on this still night. The vocalist begins: "If in my dreams I be, nearer my God to THE HYMN PLAYS OVER THE FOLLOWING SEQUENCE: 237 A seaman pulls off his lifebelt and catches up to Captain Smith as he walks to the bridge. He proffers it, but Smith seems to stare through him. Without a word he turns and goes onto the bridge. He enters the enclosed WHEELHOUSE and closes the door. He is alone, surrounded by the gleaming brass instruments. He seems to inwardly collapse. 238 IN THE FIRST CLASS SMOKING ROOM Andrews stands like a statue. He pulls out his pocketwatch and checks the time. Then he opens the face of the mantle clock and adjusts it to the correct time: 2:12 a.m. Everything must be correct. 239 IN CAL'S PARLOUR SUITE water swirls in from the private promenade deck. Rose's paintings are submerged. The Picasso tranforms under the water's surface. Degas' colors run. Monet's water lilies come to life. 240 DOWNANGLE on the two figures lying side by side, fully clothed, on a bed in a FIRST CLASS CABIN. Elderly Ida and Isador Strauss stare at the ceiling, holding hands like young lovers. Water pours into the room through a doorway. It swirls around the bed, two feet deep rising fast. 241 IN A STEERAGE CABIN somewhere in the bowels of the ship, the young IRISH MOTHER, seen earlier stoically waiting at the stairs, is tucking her two young children into bed. She pulls up the covers, making sure they are all warm and cozy. She lies down with them on the bed, speaking soothingly and holding them.
CAL: Get back! You'll swamp us! Fabrizio, swimming for his life, gets swirled under a davit. The ropes and pulleys tangle around him as the davit goes under the water, and he is dragged down. Underwater he struggles to free himself, and then kicks back to the surface. He surfaces, gasping for air in the freezing water. 247 WALLACE HARTLEY sees the water rolling rapidly up the deck toward them. He holds the last note of the hymn in a sustain, and then lowers his Gentlemen, it has been a previlege playing with you tonight.
HARTLEY: Gentlemen, it has been a previlege playing with you tonight.
JACK: Okay. we keep moving aft. We have to stay on the ship as long as They push their way aft through the panicking crowd.
CAL: ( to the crew in the boat )
MAN: Yeah, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death
JACK: You wanna walk a little faster through that valley, fella?
254 OMITTED: 255 INT. BELOWDECKS The flooding is horrific. Walls and doors are splintered like kindling. Water roars down corridors with pile-driver force. The CARTMELL FAMILY is at the top of a stairwell, jammed against a locked gate like Jack and Rose were. Water boils up the stairwell behind them. Bert Cartmell shakes the gate futilely, shouting for help. Little Cora wails as the water boils up around them all.
JOUGHIN: Sorry, miss! Hundreds of people are already on the poop deck, and more are pouring up every second. Jack and Rose cling together as tehy struggle across the tilting deck. 257 As the bow goes down, the STERN RISES. IN BOAT 2, which is just off the stern, passengers gape as the giant bronze propellers rise out of the water like gods of the deep, FILLING FRAME behind them. People are JUMPING from the well deck, the poop deck, the gangway doors. Some hit debris in the water and are hurt or killed.
258 OMITTED: 259 OMITTED 260 EXT. STERN ON THE POOP DECK Jack and Rose struggle aft as the angle increases. Hundreds of passengers, clinging to every fixed object on deck, huddle on their knees around FATHER BYLES, who has his voice raised in prayer. They are praying, sobbing, or just staring at nothing, their minds blank with Pulling himself from handhold to handhold, Jack tugs Rose aft along the Come on, Rose. We can't expect God to do all the work for us. They struggle on, pushing through the praying people. A MAN loses his footing ahead and slides toward them. Jack helps him. 261 THE PROPELLERS are twenty feet above the water and rising faster. 262 JACK AND ROSE make it to the stern rail, right at the base of the flagpole. They grip the rai, jammed in between other people. It is the spot where Jack pulled her back onto the ship, just two night. and a liftime. ago. Above the wailing and sobbing, Father Byles' voice carries, cracking with .and I saw new heavens and a new earth. The former heavens and the former earth had passed away and the sea was no longer. The lights flicker, threatening to go out. Rose grips Jack as the stern rises into a night sky ablaze with stars.
259 OMITTED: 260 EXT. STERN ON THE POOP DECK Jack and Rose struggle aft as the angle increases. Hundreds of passengers, clinging to every fixed object on deck, huddle on their knees around FATHER BYLES, who has his voice raised in prayer. They are praying, sobbing, or just staring at nothing, their minds blank with Pulling himself from handhold to handhold, Jack tugs Rose aft along the Come on, Rose. We can't expect God to do all the work for us. They struggle on, pushing through the praying people. A MAN loses his footing ahead and slides toward them. Jack helps him. 261 THE PROPELLERS are twenty feet above the water and rising faster. 262 JACK AND ROSE make it to the stern rail, right at the base of the flagpole. They grip the rai, jammed in between other people. It is the spot where Jack pulled her back onto the ship, just two night. and a liftime. ago. Above the wailing and sobbing, Father Byles' voice carries, cracking with .and I saw new heavens and a new earth. The former heavens and the former earth had passed away and the sea was no longer. The lights flicker, threatening to go out. Rose grips Jack as the stern rises into a night sky ablaze with stars.
JACK: Come on, Rose. We can't expect God to do all the work for us. They struggle on, pushing through the praying people. A MAN loses his footing ahead and slides toward them. Jack helps him. 261 THE PROPELLERS are twenty feet above the water and rising faster. 262 JACK AND ROSE make it to the stern rail, right at the base of the flagpole. They grip the rai, jammed in between other people. It is the spot where Jack pulled her back onto the ship, just two night. and a liftime. ago. Above the wailing and sobbing, Father Byles' voice carries, cracking with .and I saw new heavens and a new earth. The former heavens and the former earth had passed away and the sea was no longer. The lights flicker, threatening to go out. Rose grips Jack as the stern rises into a night sky ablaze with stars.
FATHER BYLES: .and I saw new heavens and a new earth. The former heavens and the former earth had passed away and the sea was no longer. The lights flicker, threatening to go out. Rose grips Jack as the stern rises into a night sky ablaze with stars.
FATHER BYLES: I also saw a new Jerusalem, the holy city coming down out of heaven from God, beautiful as a bride prepared to meet her husband. I heard a loud voice from the throne ring out this is God's dwelling among men. He shall dwell with them and they shall be his people and He shall be their God who is alway with them. Rose stares about her at the faces of the doomed. Near them are the DAHL FAMILY, clinging together stoically. Helga looks at her briefly, and her eyes are infinitely sad. Rose sees a young mother next to her, clutching her five year old son, who is crying in terror.
MOTHER: Shhh. Don't cry. It'll be over soon, darling. It'll all be over soon.
FATHER BYLES: He shall wipe every tear from their eyes. And there shall be no more death or mourning, crying out or pain, for the former world has passed away.
MOLLY BROWN: God Almighty. The great liner's lights flicker.
SEVERAL PEOPLE: We're saved! Jack looks at Rose and shakes his head, grimly. Now the horrible mechanics play out. Pulled down by the awesome weight of the flooded bow, the buoyant stern tilts up rapidly. They feel the RUSH OF ASCENT as the fantail angles up again. Everyone is clinging to benches, railings, ventilators. anything to keep from sliding as the stern lifts. The stern goes up and up, past 45 degrees, then past sixty. People start to fall, sliding and tumbling. They skid down the deck, screaming and flailing to grab onto somehting. They wrench other people loose and pull them down as well. There is a pile-up of bodies at the forward rail. The DAHL FAMILY falls one by one.
JACK: We have to move! He climbs over the stern rail and reaches back for Rose. She is terrified to move. He grabs her hand.
JACK: Come on! I've got you! Jack pulls her over the rail. It is the same place he pulled her over the rail two nights earlier, going the other direction. She gets over just as the railing is going HORIZONTAL, and the deck VERITCAL. Jack grips her The stern is now straight up in the air. a rumbling black monolith standing against the stars. It hangs there like that for a long grace note, its buoyancy stable. Rose lies on the railing, looking down fifteen stories to the boiling sea at the base of the stern section. People near them, who didn't climb over, hang from the railing, their legs dangling over the long drop. They fall one by one, plummeting down the vertical face of the poop deck. Some of them bounce horribly off deck benches and ventilators. Jack and Rose lie side by side on what was the vertical face of the hull, gripping the railing, which is now horizontal. Just beneath their feet are the gold letters TITANIC emblazoned across the stern. Rose stares down terrified at the black ocean waiting below to claim them. Jack looks to his left and sees Baker Joughin, crouching on the hull, holding onto the railing. It is a surreal moment.
JOUGHIN: ( nodding a greeting )
JACK: ( talking fast )
ROSE: I trust you. Below them the poop deck is disappearing. The plunge gathers speed. the boiling surface engulfs the docking bridge and then rushes up the last thirty feet. 278 IN A HIGH SHOT, we see the stern descend into the boiling sea. The name TITANIC disappears, and the tiny figures of Jack and Rose vanish under the Where the ship stood, now there is nothing. Only the black ocean.
JACK: Swim, Rose! SWIM! She tries, but her strokes are not as effective as his because of her lifejacket. They break out of the clot of people. He has to find some kind of flotation, anything to get her out of the freezing water.
JACK: Keep swimming. Keep moving. Come one, you can do it. All about them there is a tremendous wailing, screaming and moaning. a chorus of tormented souls. And beyond that. nothing but black water stretching to the horizon. The sense of isolation and hopelessness is 282 OMITTED 283 EXT. OCEAN Jack strokes rhythmically, the effort keeping him from freezing.
282 OMITTED: 283 EXT. OCEAN Jack strokes rhythmically, the effort keeping him from freezing.
JACK: Look for something floating. Some debris. wood. anything.
ROSE: It's so cold.
JACK: I know. I know. Help me, here. Look around. His words keep her focused, taking her mind off the wailing around them. Rose scans the water, panting, barely able to draw a breath. She turns and. SCREAMS. A DEVIL is right in from of her face. It is the black FRENCH BULLDOG, swimming right at her like a seamonster in the darkness, its coal eyes bugging. It motors past her, like it is headed for Newfoundland. Beyond it Rose sees somehting in the water.
ROSE: What's that? Jack sees what she is pointing to, and they make for it together. It is a piece of wooden debris, intricately carved. He pushes her up and she slithers onto it belly down. But when Jack tries to get up onto the thing, it tilts and submerges, almost dumping Rose off. It is clearly only big enough to support her. He clings to it, close to her, keeping his upper body out of the water as best he can. Their breath floats around them in a cloud as they pant from exertion. A MAN swims toward them, homing in on the piece of debris. Jack warns him It's just enough for this lady. you'll push it under.
JACK: It's just enough for this lady. you'll push it under.
MAN: Let me try at least, or I'll die soon.
JACK: You'll die quicker if you come any closer.
MAN: Yes, I see. Good luck to you then. God bless.
CAL: Stay back! Keep off! Fabrizio, exhausted and near the limit, makes it almost to the boat. Cal CLUBS HIM with the oar, cutting open his scalp.
FABRIZIO: You don't. understand. I have. to get. to America.
CAL: ( pointing with the oar )
JACK: The boats will come back for us, Rose. Hold on just a little longer. They had to row away for the suction and now they'll be coming back. She nods, his words helping her. She is shivering uncontrollably, her lips blue and her teeth chattering.
ROSE: Thank God for you Jack. People are still screaming, calling to the lifeboats.
WOMAN: Come back! Please! We know you can hear us. For God's sake!
MAN: Please. help us. Save one life! SAVE ON LIFE!
HITCHINS: They'll pull us right down I tell ya!
MOLLY: Aw knock it off, yer scarin' me. Come on girls, grab your oars. Let's go. Well come on! The women won't meet her eyes. They huddle into their ermine wraps.
MOLLY: I don't understand a one of you. What's the matter with you? It's your men back there! We got plenty a' room for more.
HITCHINS: If you don't shut that hole in yer face, there'll be one less in this boat! Ruth keeps her ears covered and her eyes closed, shutting it all out. 287 IN BOAT ONE: Sir Cosmo and Lucile Duff-Gordon sit with ten other people in a boat that is two thirds empty. They are two hundred yards from the screaming in the darkness.
FIREMAN HENDRICKSON: We should do something. Lucile squeezes Cosmo's hand and pleads him with her eyes. She is It's out of the question. The crewmembers, intimidated by a nobleman, acquiesce. They hunch guiltily, hoping the sound will stop soon. TWENTY BOATS, most half full, float in the darkness. None of them make a 288 EXT. OCEAN Jack and Rose drift under the blazing stars. The water is glassy, with only the faintest undulating swell. Rose can actually see the stars reflecting on the black mirror of the sea. Jack squeezes the water out of her long coat, tucking it in tightly around her legs. He rubs her arms. His face is chalk with in the darkness. A low MOANING in the darknes around them.
SIR COSMO: It's out of the question. The crewmembers, intimidated by a nobleman, acquiesce. They hunch guiltily, hoping the sound will stop soon. TWENTY BOATS, most half full, float in the darkness. None of them make a 288 EXT. OCEAN Jack and Rose drift under the blazing stars. The water is glassy, with only the faintest undulating swell. Rose can actually see the stars reflecting on the black mirror of the sea. Jack squeezes the water out of her long coat, tucking it in tightly around her legs. He rubs her arms. His face is chalk with in the darkness. A low MOANING in the darknes around them.
ROSE: It's getting quiet.
JACK: Just a few more minutes. It'll take them a while to get the boats Rose is unmoving, just staring into space. She knows the truth. There won't be any boats. Behind Jack she sees that Officer Wilde has stopped moving. He is slumped in his lifejacket, looking almost asleep. He has died of exposure already.
JACK: I don't know about you, but I intend to write a strongly worded letter to the White Star Line about all this. She laughs weakly, but it sounds like a gasp of fear. Rose finds his eyes in the dim light.
ROSE: I love you Jack. He takes her hand.
JACK: No. don't say your good-byes, Rose. Don't you give up. Don't do it.
ROSE: I'm so cold.
JACK: You're going to get out of this. you're going to go on and you're going to make babies and watch them grow and you're going to die an old lady, warm in your bed. Not here. Not this night. Do you understand me?
ROSE: I can't feel my body.
JACK: Rose, listen to me. Listen. Winning that ticket was the best thing that ever happened to me. Jack is having trouble getting the breath to speak.
JACK: It brought me to you. And I'm thankful, Rose. I'm thankful. His voice is trembling with the cold which is working tis way to his heart. But his eyes are unwavering.
JACK: You must do me this honor. promise me you will survive. that you will never give up. no matter what happens. no matter how hopeless. promise me now, and never let go of that promise.
ROSE: I promise.
JACK: Never let go.
ROSE: I promise. I will never let go, Jack. I'll never let go. She grips his hand and they lie with their heads together. It is quiet now, except for the lapping of the water.
LOWE: Right, man the oars.
LOWE: ( the worst moment of his life )
ROSE: "Come Josephine in my flying machine." ROSE'S POV: The stars. Like you've never seen them. The Milky Way a glorious band from horizon to horizon. A SHOOTING STAR flares. a line of light across the heavens. TIGHT ON ROSE again. We see that her hair is dusted with frost crystals. Her breathing is so shallow, she is almost motionless. Her eyes track down from the stars to the water. ROSE'S POV. SLOW MOTION: The silhouetter of a boat crossing the stars. She sees men in it, rowing so slowly the oars lift out of the syrupy water, leaving weightless pearls floating in the air. The VOICES of the men sound slow and DISTORTED. Then the lookout flashes his torch toward her and the light flares across the water, silouetting the bobbing corpses in between. It flicks past her motionless form and moves on. The boat is 50 feet away, and moving past her. The men look away. Rose lifts her head to turn to Jack. We see that her hair has frozen to the wood under her.
ROSE: ( barely audible )
ROSE: Oh, Jack. All hope, will and spirit leave her. She looks at the boat. It is further away now, the voices fainter. Rose watches them go. She closes her eyes. She is so weak, and there just seems to be no reason to even try. And then. her eyes snap open. She raises her head suddenly, cracking the ice as she rips her hair off the wood. She calls out, but her voice is so weak they don't hear her. The boat is invisible now, the torch light a star impossibly far away. She struggles to draw breath, calling again. 292 IN THE BOAT Lowe hears nothing behind him. He points to something ahead, turning the tiller. 293 ROSE struggles to move. Her hand, she realizes, is actually frozen to Jack's. She breaths on it, melting the ice a little, and gently unclasps their hands, breaking away a thin tinkling film.
ROSE: I won't let go. I promise. She releases him and he sinks into the black water. He seems to fade out like a spirit returning to some immaterial plane. Rose rolls off the floating staircase and plunges into the icy water. She swims to Chief Officer Wilde's body and grabs his whistle. She starts to BLOW THE WHISTLE with all the strength in her body. Its sound slaps across the still water. 294 IN BOAT 14 Lowe whips around at the sound of the whistle.
LOWE: ( turning the tiller )
OLD ROSE: Fifteen hundred people went into the sea when Titanic sank from under us. There were twenty boats floating nearby and only one came back. One. Six were saved from the water, myself included. Six out of fifteen hundred. As she speaks THE CAMERA TRACKS slowly across the faces of Lizzy and the salvage crew on KELDYSH. Lovett, Bodine, Buell, the others. the reality of what happened here 84 years before has hit them like never before. With her story Rose has put them on Titanic in its final hours, and or the first time, they do feel like graverobbers. Lovett, for the first time, has even forgotten to ask about the diamond.
OLD ROSE: Afterward, the seven hundred people in the boats had nothing to do but waith. wait to die, wait to live, wait for an absolution which would never come.
CARPATHIA STEWARD: You won't find any of your people back here, sir. It's all steerage. Cal ignores him and goes amongst this wrecked group, looking under shawls and blankets at one bleak face after another. Rose is sipping hot tea. Her eyes focus on him as he approaches her. He barely recognizes her. She looks like a refugee, her matted hair hanging in her eyes.
ROSE: Yes, I lived. How awkward for you.
CAL: Rose. your mother and I have been looking for you She holds up her hand, stopping him.
ROSE: Please don't. Don't talk. Just listen. We will make a deal, since that is something you understand. From this moment you do not exist for me, nor I for you. You shall not see me again. And you will not attempt to find me. In return I will keep my silence. Your actions last night need never come to light, and you will get to keep the honor you have carefully purchased. She fixes him with a glare as cold and hard as the ice which changed their Is this in any way unclear?
ROSE: Is this in any way unclear?
CAL: ( after a long beat )
ROSE: Tell her that her daughter died with the Titanic. She stands, turning to the rail. Dismissing him. We see Cal stricken with You're precious to me, Rose.
CAL: You're precious to me, Rose.
ROSE: Jewels are precious. Goodbye, Mr. Hockley. We see that in his way, the only way he knows, he does truly love her. After a moment, he turns and walks away.
IMMIGRATION OFFICER: Dawson. Rose Dawson. The officer steers her toward a holding area for processing. Rose walks forward with the dazed immigrants. The BOOM! of photographer's magnesium flashes cause them to flinch, and the glare is blinding. There is a sudden disturbance near her as two men burst through the cordon, running to embrace an older woman along the survivors, who cries out with joy. The reporters converge on this emotional scene, and flashes explode. Rose uses this moment to slip away into the crowd. She pushes through the jostling people, moving with purpose, and none challenges her in the Can you exchange one life for another? A caterpillar turns into a butterfly. If a mindless insect can do it, why couldn't I? Was it any more unimaginable than the sinking of the Titanic? TRACKING WITH HER as she walks away, further and further until she flashes and the roar are far behind her, and shi is till walking, determined.
ROSE: Dawson. Rose Dawson. The officer steers her toward a holding area for processing. Rose walks forward with the dazed immigrants. The BOOM! of photographer's magnesium flashes cause them to flinch, and the glare is blinding. There is a sudden disturbance near her as two men burst through the cordon, running to embrace an older woman along the survivors, who cries out with joy. The reporters converge on this emotional scene, and flashes explode. Rose uses this moment to slip away into the crowd. She pushes through the jostling people, moving with purpose, and none challenges her in the Can you exchange one life for another? A caterpillar turns into a butterfly. If a mindless insect can do it, why couldn't I? Was it any more unimaginable than the sinking of the Titanic? TRACKING WITH HER as she walks away, further and further until she flashes and the roar are far behind her, and shi is till walking, determined.
BODINE: We never found anything on Jack. There's no record of him at all.
OLD ROSE: No, there wouldn't be, would there? And I've never spoken of him until now, not to anyone. Not even your grandfather. A woman's heart is a deep ocean of secrets. But now you all know there was a man named Jack Dawson, and that he saved me, in every way that a person can be saved. I don't even have a picture of him. He exists now only in my memory.
304 OMITTED: 305 EXT. OCEAN FLOOR / TITANIC WRECK The Mir submersibles make their last pass over the ship. We hear Yuri the pilot on the UQC:
YURI: Mir One returning to surface. The sub rises off the deck of the wreck, taking its light with it, leaving the Titanic once again it its fine and private darkness.
LIZZY: I'm sorry.
LOVETT: We were pissin' in the wind the whole time. Lovett notices a figure move through the lights far down at the stern of the ship.
LOVETT: Oh shit.
LIZZY: Grandma, wait!! Don't ROSE TURNS her head, looking at them. She turns further, and we see she has something in her hand, something she was about to drop overboard. It is the "Heart of the Ocean". Lovett sees his holy grail in her hand and his eyes go wide. Rose keeps it over the railing where she can drop it anytime.
ROSE: Don't come any closer.
LOVETT: You had it the entire time?! FLASH CUT TO: A SILENT IMAGE OF YOUNG ROSE walking away from Pier 54. The photographers' flashes go off like a battle behind her. She has her hands in her pockets. She stops, feeling something, and pulls out the necklace. She stares at it in amazement. BACK ON KELDYSH, Rose smiles at Brock's incomprehension.
ROSE: The hardest part about being so poor, was being so rich. But every time I though of selling it, I though of Cal. And somehow I always got by without his help. She holds it out over the water. Bodine and a couple of the other guys come up behind Lovett, reacting to what is in Rose's hand.
BODINE: Holy shit.
LOVETT: Don't drop it Rose.
BODINE: ( a fierce whisper )
LOVETT: ( to Bodine )
ROSE: I have. I came all the way here so this could go back where it belongs. The massive diamond glitters. Brock edges closer and holds out his hand.
LOVETT: Just let me hold it in my hand, Rose. Please. Just once. He comes closer to her. It is reminiscent of Jack slowly moving up to her at the stern of Titanic. Surprisingly, she calmly places the massice stone in the palm of his hand, while still holding onto the necklace. Lovett gazes at the object of his quest. An infinity of cold scalpels glint in its blue depths. It is mesmerizing. It fits in his hand just like he imagined.
LOVETT: My God. His grip tightens on the diamond. He looks up, meeting her gaze. Her eyes are suddenly infinitely wise and You look for treasures in the wrong place, Mr. Lovett. Only life is priceless, and making each day count. His fingers relax. He opens them slowly. Gently she slips the diamond out of his hand. He feels it sliding away. Then, with an impish little grin, Rose tosses the necklace over the rail. Lovett gives a strangled cry and rushes to the rail in time to see it hit the water and disappear forever.
ROSE: You look for treasures in the wrong place, Mr. Lovett. Only life is priceless, and making each day count. His fingers relax. He opens them slowly. Gently she slips the diamond out of his hand. He feels it sliding away. Then, with an impish little grin, Rose tosses the necklace over the rail. Lovett gives a strangled cry and rushes to the rail in time to see it hit the water and disappear forever.
BODINE: Aww!! That really sucks, lady! Brock Lovett goes through ten changes before he settles on a reaction. HE LAUGHS. He laughs until the tears come to his eyes. Then he turns to Lizzy.
LOVETT: Would you like to dance? Lizzy grins at him and nods. Rose smiles. She looks up at the stars. 308 IN THE BLACK HEART OF THE OCEAN, the diamond sinks, twinkling end over end, into the infinate depths.
BLACKNESS: 310 THE WRECK OF TITANIC looms like a ghost out of the dark. It is lit by a kind of moonlight, a light of the mind. We pass over the endless forecastle deck to the superstructure, moving faster than subs can move. almost like we are flying. WE GO INSIDE, and the echoing sound of distant waltz music is heard. The rust fades away from the walls of the dark corridor and it is transformed. WE EMERGE onto the grand staircase, lit by glowing chandelier. The music is vibrant now, and the room is populated by men in tie and tails, women in gowns. It is exquisitely beautiful. IN POV we sweep down the staircase. The crowd of beautiful gentlmen and ladies turn as we descend toward them. At the bottom a man stands with his back to us. he turns and it is Jack. Smiling he holds his hand out toward IN A SIDE ANGLE Rose goes into his arms, a girl of 17. The passengers, officers and crew of the RMS Titanic smile and applaud in the utter silence of the abyss.
FADE OUT: THE END Writers : James Cameron
THE END: Writers : James Cameron
