"TRAFFIC": Stephen Gaghan
MR. RODMAN: This informant, paid by the police, using taxpayers dollars to continue his felony drug habit, was the link which allowed police to raid a private farm. A working farm. A farm where honest Americans make their living. One particular justice, ROBERT WAKEFIELD, younger than the others, is clearly bemused by this performance.
MR. RODMAN: The government, in its haste, has employed an army of criminals whose allegiance to the truth is, at best, questionable Judge Wakefield interrupts
ROBERT: Mr. Rodman.it's too bad your client didn't show as much sense in choosing what he planted as he did in choosing his attorney. A polite chuckle from the justices
ROBERT: Lately the only variation I'm hearing in your argument is the name of the client. And you can sit there all day arguing the ins and outs of Illinois v. Gates, but you aren't going to convince me that this country has not sanctioned the use of anonymous informants. Furthermore, there is no sacred protection of property rights in the United Sates. When you make the decision to have marijuana on your farm, whether it's one joint or an acre of plants, your property can be seized and your property can be sold.
MR. RODMAN: I'm sorry the court finds my argument Mr. Rodman, may I offer a piece of advice? The next time you argue this point before this court, regardless of my whereabouts, I recommend you have something up your sleeve other than your arm.
ROBERT: Mr. Rodman, may I offer a piece of advice? The next time you argue this point before this court, regardless of my whereabouts, I recommend you have something up your sleeve other than your arm.
CLERK: What do you think it is?
ROBERT: Depends who it's from.
CLERK: ( reading the card ) Your friends at Warren, Putnam and You can learn a lot about somebody from this stuff. Three categories: you like me, you hate me, you want something from me. ( re: the elaborate box ) Definitely third category.
ROBERT: You can learn a lot about somebody from this stuff. Three categories: you like me, you hate me, you want something from me. Definitely third category.
CLERK: What would a law firm want from the new drug Czar?
ROBERT: Depends on the state.
CLERK: ( checks ) Medicinal marijuana initiative. ( beat ) Or am I being cynical? They both laugh. Robert reaches up and pulls a bottle of Scotch from a shelf. He pours a couple of fingers in two Maybe there's a book in it. The clerk takes one of the glasses.
ROBERT: Medicinal marijuana initiative. Or am I being cynical? They both laugh. Robert reaches up and pulls a bottle of Scotch from a shelf. He pours a couple of fingers in two Maybe there's a book in it. The clerk takes one of the glasses.
CLERK: Maybe there's a book in it. The clerk takes one of the glasses.
ROBERT: Not by me. They toast and drink.
CLOSER: On Robert in the same position, only now we are in HIS HOME. It's daytime, and his wife BARBARA is helping him into this same jacket. As her hands dust the lint off his shoulders
ROBERT: In the hotel rooms, making the same motions. Satisfied, he straightens, then turns to look at himself.
OMITTED: ANGLE ON ROBERT Back at the hotel room window now. Reaches to the table and lifts the wine glass.
JAVIER: I had that dream again. A long pause.
MANOLO: Which one? Another long pause.
JAVIER: Where my mother's suffocating. They continue to wait until there is the sound of a JET ENGINE. It grows LOUDER as it approaches.
DRIVER: Is there a problem?
JAVIER: No. There's no problem. The driver hesitates a confused beat then reaches for his Okay. I see. How much do you want? The driver pulls a wad of bills. Javi shakes his head.
DRIVER: Okay. I see. How much do you want? The driver pulls a wad of bills. Javi shakes his head.
DRIVER: You want more than this? Javi shakes his head. The driver exchanges a look with his You want something else? Javi smiles. The driver gets out and walks to the back of the truck. He opens the rear door. There are neatly-stacked crates marked with a SCORPION logo and "911." He reaches into one of them and pulls out a tightly-sealed package also with the scorpion stamped on it. He turns to see Javi with his gun drawn. Manolo, at the passenger side, has also drawn his gun and is motioning the partner to move to the back of the truck.
DRIVER: You want something else? Javi smiles. The driver gets out and walks to the back of the truck. He opens the rear door. There are neatly-stacked crates marked with a SCORPION logo and "911." He reaches into one of them and pulls out a tightly-sealed package also with the scorpion stamped on it. He turns to see Javi with his gun drawn. Manolo, at the passenger side, has also drawn his gun and is motioning the partner to move to the back of the truck.
JAVIER: Drop the package. Put your hands behind your head. You're under The driver hesitates. He starts to comply then looks at Javi and Manolo.
DRIVER: I don't understand. I think there must be some mistake.
JAVIER: No, there's no mistake. Javi motions to Manolo who cuffs both teenagers. The driver begins spewing OBSCENITIES under his breath. Javi puts the driver in the front of the Shadow. Manolo follows in the moving van.
OMITTED: EXT. DIRT ROAD - MEXICO - LATER The truck follows the Shadow down a desert road. Suddenly, from behind, four armored SUV's with tinted windows appear, closing fast. The SUV's force both vehicles off the road where they pull to a stop. A long beat as hot wind blows desert detritus past the truck. Finally, the SUV doors open and FEDERAL POLICE OFFICERS surround them like a SWAT team. The passenger door of the lead SUV opens and GENERAL ARTURO SALAZAR, 50's, a squat, powerful presence in a perfectly pressed uniform gets out and approaches Javi.
OMITTED: EXT. DIRT ROAD - MEXICO - LATER The truck follows the Shadow down a desert road. Suddenly, from behind, four armored SUV's with tinted windows appear, closing fast. The SUV's force both vehicles off the road where they pull to a stop. A long beat as hot wind blows desert detritus past the truck. Finally, the SUV doors open and FEDERAL POLICE OFFICERS surround them like a SWAT team. The passenger door of the lead SUV opens and GENERAL ARTURO SALAZAR, 50's, a squat, powerful presence in a perfectly pressed uniform gets out and approaches Javi.
SALAZAR: ( to Javier ) What's your name?
JAVIER: Javier Rodriguez.
SALAZAR: Well, Javier Rodriguez, you've done a very good job, but we'll take care of it from here. Javier stares into the implacable reflection of his sunglasses. In the distance, the DC-3 takes off and ROARS over their heads.
SALAZAR: We've been following these Narco- trafficantes for some time but had not been able to bring them to Put the prisoners in the car. Impound the truck. The men follow Salazar's orders.
SALAZAR: ( to Javi ) One question. How did you find about An informant.
JAVIER: An informant.
SALAZAR: What is the name of your informant?
JAVIER: ( beat ) It was an anonymous tip. Salazar looks at Javi a beat.
SALAZAR: ( to his men ) For a State Police officer, you're very well informed. Let's go.
MOMENTS LATER: Javi and Manolo watch the convoy of vehicles drive away. Javier lights a cigarette.
MANOLO: Wasn't that General Salazar?
JAVIER: What's he doing up here?
MANOLO: What's he doing up here?
JAVIER: I don't know. Something. They start for their car.
OMITTED: EXT. DEL MAR SELF-STORAGE - DAY SUPERTITLE: SAN DIEGO Two men, RAY CASTRO, 30's, proud, ambitious, and MONTEL GORDON, 40's, suspicious of everyone including himself and always, always the smartest guy in the room, walk from a Lincoln Towncar toward a dumpy office. Castro is talking under his breath
OMITTED: EXT. DEL MAR SELF-STORAGE - DAY SUPERTITLE: SAN DIEGO Two men, RAY CASTRO, 30's, proud, ambitious, and MONTEL GORDON, 40's, suspicious of everyone including himself and always, always the smartest guy in the room, walk from a Lincoln Towncar toward a dumpy office. Castro is talking under his breath
OMITTED: EXT. DEL MAR SELF-STORAGE - DAY SUPERTITLE: SAN DIEGO Two men, RAY CASTRO, 30's, proud, ambitious, and MONTEL GORDON, 40's, suspicious of everyone including himself and always, always the smartest guy in the room, walk from a Lincoln Towncar toward a dumpy office. Castro is talking under his breath
CASTRO: No telltales. Nothing to read. Not touching my face. Not even blinking. No giveaways. How're you feeling?
GORDON: ( keyed up ) I feel good.
CASTRO: No more pissant basin league bullshit for us, hunh?
GORDON: Castro stretches his arms, swings them around.
CASTRO: Limbering up, gonna stay loose, keep it all together. Take this motherfucker down. They reach the door to the office. Gordon looks at Castro, then turns the handle.
CASTRO: INT. OFFICE, DEL MAR SELF-STORAGE - DAY It's a cluttered, rundown working office unusual only in the extent of its ordinariness. A SECRETARY goes about her business like a somnambulist. CLERKS shuffle and file. Castro switches into Spanish
CASTRO: ( in Spanish ) Good afternoon, ladies, gentlemen. We're looking for Eduardo Ruiz. We have a two o'clock appointment.
RUIZ: You ever buy a quarter ton? Not many people have. Another "businessman" enters from another door and whispers in Ruiz's ear, then leaves again.
RUIZ: So, it's worth the wait, right? What can I do? Rent a Huey? Have an airlift? It's not like you can put it in a condom up some mule's asshole, right? How many peasants would that take? A line stretching from here to Mexico City
GORDON: Nobody said shit, Eduardo One of Ruiz's hands dips under the desk where we see a handgun is holstered on the underside.
RUIZ: Relax. We're waiting, that's it.
CASTRO: Hey, you want to hear a joke? I got a joke. Why do women wear makeup and perfume?
GORDON: Chill out
CASTRO: It's a funny fuckin' joke and it's quick. Why do women wear makeup and I don't know.
RUIZ: I don't know.
CASTRO: 'Cause they're ugly and they stink. Castro laughs uproariously.
GORDON: Man, you never been close enough to a woman to know how she smells.
DEA AGENT: This is ridiculous this fucking thing. Look at this shit the first television transmission. I had better shit when I was the AV guy at junior high, swear-to-God.
FBI AGENT: This is our show. Ah, man. I don't want to share this one.
CASTRO: Agent down. Repeat, agent down. Gordon gets slowly to his feet, shaking off the blast to his Kevlar, and runs after them.
CLOWN: Hey dudes, we're not open yet. Castro makes a motion for him to be quiet and keeps moving toward the room of colored balls. Gordon enters the restaurant and follows him. An ANIMATRONIC BAND starts to play a SONG. Gordon sees a half-hidden foot buried underneath the plastic balls at the far end of the room. He takes careful aim and FIRES. Ruiz SCREAMS and sits up. Castro pounces on him, disarming him, and roughing him up.
RUIZ: Take me to the hospital. I'm bleeding to death. Castro shoves him forward.
SETH: Father of Greek tragedy? Anyone? Okay, Aeschylus it is. His trilogy? The Oresteia. I mean this is beautiful, can anyone stop the Seth Machine? Score. Thank you. Madmax from Omaha we own you. And Tragedy is closed Seth leans over and snorts a line of coke from a mirror. He hands it to Caroline who effortlessly does one.
CAROLINE: Entertainment. The Susan Lucci section or Banal Love Songs of the Seth looks at her. He has a crush.
SETH: Banal Love Songs it is. Hey, you wanna try something? She nods. They both take a swig of beer. He takes her hand pulling her past the stoned people on the couch
CAROLINE: What are you doing?
SETH: ( concentrating ) Just watch. He watches the substance in the spoon as it swirls and bubbles, then separates. He pours the most viscous part onto the aluminum foil, making four separate little puddles. He quickly dismantles a ballpoint pen, making a straw. He hands it to Caroline.
SETH: Inhale the smoke and hold it.
CAROLINE: What is this, like freebase?
SETH: Not like. It is. He lights the flame under the aluminum foil. The puddle crackles and pops, then starts to smoke
SETH: Go. Go! There's a rush of thick grey smoke. Caroline catches most of it.
SETH: Hold it. She pulls it in deeper and holds. Suddenly her expression changes. Her eyes lose their focus, her face slackens, an almost sexual response. Seth is watching her intensely.
SETH: See. Now, you see. Caroline slumps back against the counter. Seth moves against her, kissing her, running his hands over her breasts and body. She stares over his shoulder, holding it as long as she can. Finally she exhales
CAROLINE: The cloud of grey smoke from her lungs fills the room.
ROBERT: I'll be sure to let you know.
SHERIDAN: I just want to be clear about one thing. I used to work for him, but now I work for you. I'm not a partisan person, I'm an issue person. In the next few weeks, if you allow me, we'll get you well-versed on an incredible array of issues. The most important of which, in my opinion, being Mexico. I know everybody that you're gonna meet. It's important that they like you. It's not important that they like me. That's why I can help protect Like you protected Landry?
ROBERT: Like you protected Landry?
SHERIDAN: I see where you're going with that, but if I could just say something, which is basically that a guy like Landry is so autocratic he doesn't know how to let himself be helped; it's a point of pride to take every bullet, no matter who fired it, or whether it was even aimed at him, which personally I think it very self-defeating. Now, don't get me wrong, he's a man of enormous integrity, but there's a political component to this job that the General just didn't have any patience for.
GENERAL LANDRY: Jeff, you want to excuse us for a Sheridan nods and leaves.
GENERAL LANDRY: ( bemused, off Sheridan's exit ) Functionaries. Nice people, the Schedule C's. About twelve graduate degrees apiece, but it seems sometimes all they do is start rumors. Robert and Landry shake hands.
ROBERT: You've done a fine job here, Sir. The Office of National Drug Control Policy is in better shape than when you found it. Landry tries to determine whether Robert believes this. He looks around the office as if the policy is hiding somewhere.
GENERAL LANDRY: I'm not sure I made the slightest I tried. I really did.
ROBERT: There are a lot of encouraging statistics. The work's just started, but I intend to see it through. You've got my word on that.
GENERAL LANDRY: You're here for two years, three maximum. What'd they promise you? Court appointment? What? District? Not Supreme. Supreme?
ROBERT: I've come in to do a tough job and that's what I'm going to focus on. General Landry SIGHS.
GENERAL LANDRY: When Kruschev was forced out, he sat down and wrote two letters and handed them to his successor. He said "When you get into a situation you can't get out of, open the first letter and you'll be saved. And when you get into another situation you can't get out of, open the second." Soon enough this guy found himself in a tight place. So he opened the first letter. It said, "Blame everything on me." So he blamed the old guy and it worked like a charm. He got into another situation he couldn't get out of, so he opened the second letter, which read, "Sit down and write two letters." They stare at each other a beat. Then Landry smiles.
JAVIER: Relax. If they were going to kill us they would have done it in the They wouldn't do it in front of all these people. They'd send someone later, when we're alone. Manolo tenses, and throws open the window.
MANOLO: They wouldn't do it in front of all these people. They'd send someone later, when we're alone. Manolo tenses, and throws open the window.
MANOLO: ( yelling out the window ) Away from the car. Now! MANOLO'S POV out the window as KIDS play in the car, sitting behind the wheel.
JAVIER: Even if that were true, they're not going to come to your house where you're waiting for them.
ANNA: He's right. They'll do it when you're walking somewhere, make it look like street crime.
MANOLO: Shut your fucking mouth. Nobody's talking to you. Anna sets a cup of coffee in front of Javi and stares at INT. POLICE SEDAN - DAY Javi and Manolo cruise through the streets of Tijuana.
JAVIER: If you want her to stay out of it, then stop telling her everything. You should learn how to keep a secret.
MANOLO: She's nosy. She hears me on the Anyway, I don't think we'll ever see them again. Everything's back to EXT. TIJUANA STREET - DAY Tourist hell. A cacophony of street venders, panhandlers, and vehicular traffic. Javier and Manolo are speaking with a flustered young American TOURIST COUPLE.
JAVIER: Anyway, I don't think we'll ever see them again. Everything's back to EXT. TIJUANA STREET - DAY Tourist hell. A cacophony of street venders, panhandlers, and vehicular traffic. Javier and Manolo are speaking with a flustered young American TOURIST COUPLE.
TOURIST WOMAN: You're a police officer. Aren't you going to take a report or something? Don't you want to know what kind of car it is?
TOURIST MAN: It's a Brown Ford Explorer
TOURIST WOMAN: It was right here. It's been stolen. I want to file a report.
MANOLO: Please. Filing a report will not help you find your car.
JAVIER: The police won't find your car.
TOURIST WOMAN: But you're the police. Javier pulls out a note pad and scribbles a number.
JAVIER: Call this man, he'll find your car for you.
TOURIST MAN: I don't get it
TOURIST WOMAN: How will this guy know who has our The police will tell him. There's a beat of confusion.
JAVIER: The police will tell him. There's a beat of confusion.
TOURIST MAN: Why will they tell him but they won't tell us?
TOURIST WOMAN: ( getting it ) Because we pay him, stupid. ( to Javier ) Right? And he pays the police. And then our car appears.
JAVIER: Yes. Better than filling out forms, The man reaches in his wallet and offers Javier a twenty. Javi waves him off. Javier and Manolo walk back to their squad car when two SUV's come to a stop in front of them. Javier and Manolo exchange a look. The doors SLAM and FOOTSTEPS approach.
NAN: Duck salad?
HELENA: Nan can't believe it.
NAN: Helena, you never order duck salad.
HELENA: Well, that's true. I don't. I think someone else is asking for Well, he's got good taste. Isn't it the most wonderful thing you ever tasted? I mean ever.
NAN: Well, he's got good taste. Isn't it the most wonderful thing you ever tasted? I mean ever.
HELENA: It's delicious
STEWIE: They're the most marvelous little creatures. Canard. They fly, swim, walk. And so cute with their babies marching along behind.
NAN: Looking for a nice sauce ala orange. Everyone laughs. Helena is by far the youngest in her crowd.
ALEX: It's a very fatty bird. All that winter insulation. Just like me.
NAN: You mean all breast, just like you.
ALEX: You're bad
NAN: ( singsong ) Jealous, that's all
HELENA: I've heard. I can't remember where. That it's full of that good kind of fat, the kind you're supposed to eat
STEWIE: Unsaturated fat
HELENA: And now there's a good cholesterol and bad cholesterol. Everything they tell you completely changes every other week. I don't know why they think we should listen at all.
NAN: What I know is ducks, as cute as they are, were designed by God to be Nan reaches for a taste and the other women lean forward also, a sea of inanity swirling around Helena's salad.
HELENA: I'll put this in the back.
DAVID: All the professionals keep them in the trunk.
HELENA: All the professionals keep them in the trunk.
DAVID: Not Tiger Woods.
HELENA: Especially Tiger Woods. .Actually, he keeps his on the back seat. She pulls the putter away from the reluctant boy and sets it on the back seat.
LONNIE: Gates, Myrhvold, Bezos. I sell to all those guys. Why? Because the technology to intrude has reached the masses. Your competitor, your ex-spouse, adversaries, stalkers, they're at the local electronics store right now, and they're gonna be intruding on you not only through your telephone, but your fax, cell phone, pager, cable TV, Musak, windows, walls, air conditioning ventilation, modem, and internet He walks over to the bed and the sexy equipment
LONNIE: Nobody has these babies, no way, not the shiznit. Frederico picks up a piece of equipment.
FRANCISCO: I want to intercept cell phone calls, digital and analog. And locate the source of the call. I need databasing capability, to cross-reference calls and numbers. Lonnie lovingly picks up a laptop computer with a sleek device attached to it
LONNIE: Your Cellular Secretary, friend across all the digital wireless spread So, Francisco, what do you do? You a PI? Private security? Francisco looks at Lonnie coldly.
FRANCISCO: ( not missing a beat ) Assassin, okay. Let's get you started in surveillance.
LONNIE: ( not missing a beat ) Assassin, okay. Let's get you started in surveillance.
PHARMACEUTICAL LOBBYIST: We in the legal drug business, and I mean Merck, Pfizer, the rest of my very powerful clients, realize this isn't a war with a traditional winner and loser, but an organism at war with itself, whose weapons of mass destruction happen to be intoxicants. And if you want a body count look no further than alcohol which racks up 80,000 kills a year. Cocaine manages a measly 2,000. Same for Heroin. But, the big daddy is Big Tobacco which kills 380,000 each year, which, by the way, is more people than have been killed by all the illegal drugs in the last century.
ROBERT: ( faking it ) That's very interesting. The lobbyist smiles. Robert sips his drink.
STAN: It's time, Robert, to choke some honesty out of these rural legislators; get'em to fess up that it's pretty much Prisons or Casinos in terms of their choices for economic ANOTHER ANGLE ON ROBERT listening to ETHAN, earnest advocate of harm reduction.
ETHAN: What's the difference between Prozac and Ecstacy, you ask? One's a mattress and the other's a trampoline. Molecules don't have morality. Really, think about it: some molecule changes the way a serotonin re-uptake inhibitor works, it's not suddenly a bad molecule; it's just a molecule. My theory: America has a real fear of short, intense experiences. Robert turns away
ROBERT: ( under his breath ) Like you.
ANOTHER ROOM: Robert at the bar getting another scotch. A secretive man, TIM, 40's, nerdy, sidles up beside him and whispers furtively in his ear.
TIM: ( whispering ) Chemicals? Some say problems, others say solution. Imagine a cloud that when it rains prohibits the growth of poppies or takes the THC out of marijuana. Imagine a pill that eliminates any psychological craving, from Dilaudid to Dove Bars. Law enforcement hasn't let science sit on the sidelines. Addiction is no more relevant than polio or the Black Tim slips away into the crowd. Robert moves away from the ANOTHER ROOM An argument is breaking out between an ECONOMIST and an UNDERSECRETARY OF DEFENSE with Robert as the audience.
ANOTHER ROOM: An argument is breaking out between an ECONOMIST and an UNDERSECRETARY OF DEFENSE with Robert as the audience.
ECONOMIST: ( to the undersecretary ) You're not battling traffickers or dealers, but a market, and the market contains a paradox: if you arrest traffickers, you raise prices, and you also raise profits, which brings more traffickers into the business.
UNDERSECRETARY: ( to the Economist ) Back in the real world, we're talking about Mexico and not John Maynard Keynes. We will spend 18 billion dollars this year on this "war," and the question on the table every year is do we certify Mexico as an ally or not? Another man, RUSH PHILLIPS, a middle-aged powerbroker, overhears, then joins and Robert is encircled.
RUSH PHILLIPS: You want to make a difference, hit the users. You don't jeopardize our financial markets by some hypocritical stance on drug consumption. We're snorting it, why penalize Mexico for supplying it?
UNDERSECRETARY: Mexico, don't talk to me about It's the stick of law enforcement that creates the carrot of huge profits. That's economic truth
ECONOMIST: It's the stick of law enforcement that creates the carrot of huge profits. That's economic truth
RUSH PHILLIPS: Addicts don't vote; they don't have PACs; they don't spend soft money, that's political truth
UNDERSECRETARY: We're locking them up and consumption is falling
ECONOMIST: The price of coke and heroin has dropped and purity has increased. All this law enforcement has achieved is kids can get better stuff, cheaper. In economic terms, you can forget it; this is not a winnable war.
RUSH PHILLIPS: Christ, you want to decertify somebody, take Pakistan or Columbia. We don't need them for anything.
ECONOMIST: If you manage to seize an inconceivable 50 percent of all drugs coming into this country, you'll still raise the price of coke and heroin less than 3 percent which won't affect drug use at all.
RUSH PHILLIPS: Why are we calling this a war at all? You don't declare war on your own people. Addiction is a little worm that gnaws a house apart from the inside. MICHAEL ADLER, about Robert's age, and as successful, but in a different way, approaches, catching Robert's eye through the arguing demagogues.
UNDERSECRETARY: We need Mexico for these reasons: number one Defense; two Trade; three Tourism; then, way on down the line, comes Drugs. The President knows this. Why's he holding everybody's feet to the fire?
MICHAEL: ( solemn ) Mr. Wakefield, there's a situation that needs your attention right away. Robert looks at Michael, squints, looks closer, then follows.
RUSH PHILLIPS: ( oblivious ) One in sixteen Americans is of Mexican descent. Mexico our third largest trading partner.
ROBERT: You're looking pretty good for an old guy.
MICHAEL: My work keeps me young.
ROBERT: Which part, getting terrorists loose on bail or freeing convicted murderers on technicalities?
MICHAEL: The worst serial killer in history - who? Gacy - right? Killed forty two people. Our government killed fifty thousand in Vietnam and lied about it every day.
ROBERT: Michael, you represent drug dealers, not civil libertarians.
MICHAEL: We kidnapped Noriega out of Panama. Is that covered in your Constitution? Because it isn't in mine.
ROBERT: Noriega is a criminal.
MICHAEL: Noriega was head of a sovereign nation who made the mistake of doing business with the U.S. Government. So, no, I don't have a problem waking up every day and fighting our government, fighting people like you, trying to keep this system a little bit honest.
ROBERT: ( amused ) Last I read your clients were chopping people up with chainsaws and delivering illegal narcotics into this country.
MICHAEL: I hope when you were on the bench, Judge Wakefield, you didn't handle the presumption of innocence in the same fashion.
ROBERT: If I ever return to the bench, Counselor Adler, I hope I have the pleasure of hearing your arguments.
GORDON: You planning on going somewhere, Eduardo? You don't like it here? This is the best situation you're going to have for a long, long time.
RUIZ: I am a legitimate business. Fishing boats. Tuna. Check it out. Tax records, everything
GORDON: Listen you motherfucker, you tried to kill me with a fucking cannon.
RUIZ: You can't visit me here. I want my The amount of coke we got on you means capital punishment in some Move 'em to Texas, fry 'em up.
GORDON: The amount of coke we got on you means capital punishment in some Move 'em to Texas, fry 'em up.
CASTRO: Move 'em to Texas, fry 'em up.
GORDON: We got you on tape making the deal. We got you bragging about the quality. We got you bragging about your business. We got you. A NURSE appears in the doorway. Gordon goes to the door and shuts it in her face.
GORDON: One chance here, Eduardo. Make us believe you got a boss. No boss, it's all on you.
RUIZ: It's a death sentence. I'll never make it to the trial.
GORDON: We can protect you. Ruiz looks at them in disbelief.
CASTRO: Who do you work for?
RUIZ: This is coercion.
GORDON: That's a big word for a fisherman.
CASTRO: Who do you work for? Gordon and Ruiz stare at each other.
RUIZ: I know another word. Immunity.
DAVID: The window lowers and we see CARL AYALA, 40's, handsome, charismatic, second generation American, in expensive, conservative clothes, covering his cell phone as he greets his kids.
CARL: Hello. Hello. He goes back to his phone call, pulling around to the garage. David goes back to his game.
CARL: ( into phone ) I'm sorry, Jonas. I don't care if that is the price you have gotten in order countries. Helena watches her husband pace as he talks. He can't help it, but a portion of this call is theatrical, for an audience's benefit, which in this instance happens to be his wife. Helena's expression of annoyance resets itself into This is America, a different country. I am Carl, a different man. So you see, everything about our situation is different and I believe the pricing will be different, too. ( beat, listens ) You're a reasonable man. So take the weekend to think about it. Carl clicks off the phone, turns to Helena.
CARL: This is America, a different country. I am Carl, a different man. So you see, everything about our situation is different and I believe the pricing will be different, too. You're a reasonable man. So take the weekend to think about it. Carl clicks off the phone, turns to Helena.
CARL: Every day with this guy is like starting all over again. Carl winds down and finally becomes present in the room with his wife. He looks at her. She looks back.
CARL: What's up?
HELENA: What's up?
CARL: What's up?
HELENA: Just watching you.
CARL: I got that. How was your day? She pushes the topiary away from her. Suddenly, she seems tired. Carl comes over and puts his hand on her pregnant You all right?
CARL: You all right?
HELENA: I keep feeling like I'm forgetting Her husband watches her, then wraps his arms around her.
HELENA: David, come inside Suddenly, POLICE and DEA enter the front yard. Gordon and Castro enter the yard and move quickly up the drive to Carl.
CARL: What is this? What is going on?
GORDON: Mr. Ayala?
CARL: That's right.
GORDON: You're under arrest for violation of Federal Narcotics laws. Gordon and Castro spin him, cuff him, and without emotion begin pulling him from his yard. David is trying to get to his father. In a kind of shock. Helena trails after him. Castro drags Carl into the street toward the open door of the cruiser. He pushes him down into the backseat.
GORDON: We have a warrant to search your home, Mrs. Ayala. Gordon hits the side of the cruiser and it pulls away. Carl looks at his wife through the window. Gordon and Castro head up the driveway toward her house. Helena is left standing in the street. NEIGHBORS, who have appeared in front yards and at the ends of driveways, stare at her with suspicion. David approaches and holds onto her INT. SALAZAR'S HEADQUARTERS - ANTEROOM - DAY Javi and Manolo wait in Salazar's anteroom. A ceiling fan swirls the air. After a moment the door opens and an AIDE motions to them. They stand.
OMITTED: INT. SALAZAR'S HEADQUARTERS - ANTEROOM - DAY Javi and Manolo wait in Salazar's anteroom. A ceiling fan swirls the air. After a moment the door opens and an AIDE motions to them. They stand.
AIDE: ( to Manolo ) Not you. You. Javi goes into the room.
SALAZAR: Javier Rodriguez. Twenty-nine years- old. Graduated from Montessori school. Five years as a beat cop in TJ. Three years with the State Police. Parents died four years ago in their apartment from carbon monoxide poisoning because they could not afford to fix their gas heater. Your sister works in a Maquiladora in Juarez, making designer blue-jeans. On the police force three years, you currently make 316 dollars a month. Salazar crumples the piece of paper and tosses it in the That's your past. I want to talk about your future. Would you be willing to do something for me?
SALAZAR: That's your past. I want to talk about your future. Would you be willing to do something for me?
JAVIER: If I can.
SALAZAR: I'm trying to bust the Tijuana Cartel.
JAVIER: What is it you want me to do?
SALAZAR: A small thing. Nothing really. Javier thinks about this.
JAVIER: Does this offer include my partner?
SALAZAR: Only if he can be trusted.
JAVIER: He'll do what I say. Salazar slides a folder across the desk. Javier opens it and sees a black and white surveillance photo of the His name is Francisco Flores. He is a killer and gun smuggler for the Tijuana cartel. I need to speak with him. I need you to find him and bring him to me so that I can speak with him.
SALAZAR: His name is Francisco Flores. He is a killer and gun smuggler for the Tijuana cartel. I need to speak with him. I need you to find him and bring him to me so that I can speak with him.
MANOLO: This is fucking crazy. Instead of killing us, he sends us on a suicide mission. Do you know who Frankie Flowers is? He's a psycho-cokehead- hitman. A faggot. He's killed fucking who knows how many people. You'd need half the force to get close to him. And you can't get their help because he lives in fucking San Diego.
JAVIER: Then I guess I'm going by myself.
ROBERT: What's it like? Imagine you're being accosted by a swarm of beggars in the heart of Calcutta, except the beggars are wearing $1500 suits and they don't say "please" or "thank you."
CAROLINE: What about legalizing everything? Has anybody talked about that?
ROBERT: Fine legalization. Okay, forgetting all of our international trade agreements, legalize everything today. The Government inserts itself into all drug transactions. The U.S. becomes a giant pharmacy. Our borders are mobbed, lines of people from here to Europe wanting to smoke, snort and shoot themselves into Like a Grateful Dead Concert.
BARBARA: ( lightly ) Like a Grateful Dead Concert.
ROBERT: Drugs begin pouring out of America into every other country in the world. Canada is completely overwhelmed.
CAROLINE: What if every country legalized at the same time?
ROBERT: ( smiles ) Somehow, I don't see that happening.
BARBARA: So you know we put the case before the arbitration panel, none of whom had any expertise. Superfund is just one of those words. People stop paying attention.
ROBERT: That's frustrating.
BARBARA: It's so frustrating. There is wine on the table and Caroline is allowed a glass. Her parents watch her take a responsible sip.
CAROLINE: ( to Robert ) Did you meet the President?
BARBARA: Honey, your father knows the As it happens, the President of the United States, my new boss, the leader of the free world, has me penciled in for some "face time".
ROBERT: As it happens, the President of the United States, my new boss, the leader of the free world, has me penciled in for some "face time".
CAROLINE: Will we get invited to the White I don't know.
ROBERT: I don't know.
CAROLINE: How long's the job?
ROBERT: It's a presidential appointment so. until I quit or get fired.
BARBARA: Czar for life, just like a real czar.
CAROLINE: That makes mom the Czarina. I'm a Czarette. Like Anastasia. Caroline thinks about this.
CAROLINE: None of my friends can fucking believe my dad is the actual Drug Czar.
BARBARA: Sorry, but I mean, come on. Robert doesn't know if she's putting him down.
CAROLINE: Sorry, but I mean, come on. Robert doesn't know if she's putting him down.
CAROLINE: It's great, daddy. It's just amazing, that's all. They all look at each other. Caroline sips her wine.
ARNIE: Helena, I'm so sorry
HELENA: Arnie, thank God. Metzger sits, giving her a hug.
HELENA: Can you please tell me what on earth is going on? Arnie looks at her as if to say, "do you really not know?" Then, he speaks quietly with his hand in front of his mouth.
ARNIE: I understand. You're upset. You want to know what's going on. That's Why are you talking like that?
HELENA: Why are you talking like that?
ARNIE: Listen to me carefully. First of all, Carl isn't here. DEA's got him and they'll hang on to him until arraignment, which will probably be tomorrow. So here you're wasting your time. Are you with me? He checks to see if this is registering.
ARNIE: Good. From now on I want you to expect that every word you utter will be tape-recorded, that the movement of your lips is being read. Got it?
HELENA: Arnie, this is crazy. He makes eye contact with her.
ARNIE: Got it? Good. Do not discuss anything over the telephone. Do not talk to the neighbors. Stay out of your yard.
HELENA: What is he being charged with?
ARNIE: I don't know, but under no circumstances would I talk about it here. I want you to go home and relax the best you can. Continue your life as if nothing has happened. That is very important.
HELENA: Arnie, I feel like Alice stepping through the looking glass.
ARNIE: That's a very apt analogy, Helena. Now, go home and be with your EXT. BUILDING PARKING LOT - DAY Helena exits. Her expression is set as she drives. She turns a corner in the shopping district, passing JAVIER AND MANOLO who are walking down the street. Tourists, drunk Marines and the homeless piss away another day. We follow them into a bar with blackened windows and a discrete sign.
LATER: Javi is working on his second beer when he seems to recognize somebody.
OMITTED: EXT. MILITARY BASE - MEXICO - DAY The back of a blue van opens and a blindfolded Francisco falls onto the ground. Surrounding him are Javi and Salazar, who watch as two of Salazar's MEN drag Francisco away toward an abandoned mission- style building.
OMITTED: EXT. MILITARY BASE - MEXICO - DAY The back of a blue van opens and a blindfolded Francisco falls onto the ground. Surrounding him are Javi and Salazar, who watch as two of Salazar's MEN drag Francisco away toward an abandoned mission- style building.
SALAZAR: ( clearly pleased with Javi ) I'm curious how you did this with such economy.
JAVIER: Everybody has a weakness.
CAROLINE: All I'm saying, what I'm saying, is it never seems like anybody ever says anything that matters to them, like we all look at each other and nod with responses we've been trained to make, not real responses, just social conventions, phony, fake smiles, surface bullshit. I mean, we're all smart and do we have any idea what each other are like, really like? Do I know what Seth's afraid of, or Vanessa, or fucked-up Bowman? Everyone looks at Fucked-up Bowman who grinds his jaw .Probably, but do I ever say this stuff, just say, "hey, I'm uncomfortable in this crowd, I don't know what the fuck I'm doing, either? I know you're afraid and it's okay
CAROLINE: .Probably, but do I ever say this stuff, just say, "hey, I'm uncomfortable in this crowd, I don't know what the fuck I'm doing, either? I know you're afraid and it's okay
SETH: We act like we have all the answers and we're totally invincible like our parents seem and their parents before them and it's fucking bullshit Fucked-up Bowman takes another slug of vodka and almost pukes.
SETH: For instance I know you jack-off thinking about Caroline even though you're supposedly "in love" with Vanessa. Whatever the fuck that I mean, what is that convention, anyway? We're all these random collections of self-interest, and then we just decide that now we're two people walking along Caroline expels a hit of rock cocaine
CAROLINE: And Vanessa doesn't think she's pretty so she does all these weird fucking diets which is totally about self- esteem. And she's beautiful. And that's not even fair. Because listen to me. I'm fucking lying right now. This is exactly what I'm talking about. I'm supposedly talking about you, making some big point about you, and it's really about me. So I should talk about me, not you, not even the universal Okay. Okay, I'm worried I'm not really smart or that I'm not nearly as smart as people think I am, or that my parents' expectations have been way too high since I was five, I mean who knows they're going to Harvard when they're five, not that I'm blaming them for anything because everything's great, and I may not even get in, but we all feel this shit and we never acknowledge it and if we can't acknowledge it to the people we care the most about then who will we ever say it too and what kind of life will that be? They all look at each other with love. This is an adventure and they're having a connection
CAROLINE: ( disgusted ) Ach, that's what I'm talking about. Sarcasm. Always fucking sarcasm. You're afraid and you think if you admit it people will think you're weak or won't like you
SETH: We live our lives by these unspoken rules that are handed to us. They all look at each other, vibrating with the moment
VANESSA: Let's be different
VANESSA: He's blue. He isn't breathing
CAROLINE: Is he breathing? Bowman's eyes have rolled back in his head.
SETH: What do we do? Okay. Fucked-up Bowman's turning blue. Doctor. We need a doctor.
VANESSA: Your dad's a doctor. Call him
SETH: He's a research doctor. You're dad's a doctor, too
VANESSA: What kind of research?
SETH: Mapping the fucking pig genome. We'll call your dad, he's a It's three a.m. I'm not supposed to be here. I snuck out
VANESSA: It's three a.m. I'm not supposed to be here. I snuck out
CAROLINE: Are you kidding. I'm staying with you
SETH: He's gonna fucking die right here on the kitchen floor
ANOTHER KID: He can't. My parents are in EXT. SUBURBAN HOSPITAL EMERGENCY ENTRANCE - NIGHT The Taurus wagon races up to the emergency room of Suburban Hospital. The back door opens and Bowman tumbles out onto the wheelchair ramp under the fluorescent lights. The car screeches around the circle
OMITTED: EXT. SUBURBAN HOSPITAL EMERGENCY ENTRANCE - NIGHT The Taurus wagon races up to the emergency room of Suburban Hospital. The back door opens and Bowman tumbles out onto the wheelchair ramp under the fluorescent lights. The car screeches around the circle
SETH: Nobody has anything on them, right?
OMITTED: INT. TORTURE ROOM - BARRACKS - DAY Francisco is strapped naked into a chair. Duct tape covers his mouth. His face is bruised and swollen. A cruel TORTURER talks to him calmly while dumping chili powder into a container of soda water.
TORTURER: We know Tijuana Cartel gunmen killed our chief of intelligence, Francisco. We know you killed police commanders in Tijuana and Mexico City. Why do you resist? He approaches Francisco and begins shaking up the soda water. He rips the tape off his mouth.
FRANCISCO: My father is rich. He'll pay you.
TORTURER: Not the correct answer, my friend. The torturer puts another strip of duct tape across Francisco's mouth.
TORTURER: We know that you went after the neighbor of General Salazar, a simple alfalfa farmer. His grand-daughter was shot. This is stupid behavior, Francisco starts to squirm and whimper. The torturer closes one of Francisco's nostrils and sprays the pepper-laced water into the other nostril. It's like a bomb went off in Francisco's brain. He SCREAMS and passes out. Blood and mucous oozes out of his nose.
STEWIE: This is fabulous, Helena. What a Thank you so much, but I had a lot of help. Helena circles away. As Helena leaves, the women speak their It's a turnout because it's a spectacle. Can you imagine?
HELENA: Thank you so much, but I had a lot of help. Helena circles away. As Helena leaves, the women speak their It's a turnout because it's a spectacle. Can you imagine?
NAN: It's a turnout because it's a spectacle. Can you imagine?
ALEX: I've met her husband, as nice as they come.
STEWIE: It teaches me a valuable lesson. Apparently crime pays.
NAN: Silly, you knew that already.
TUXEDO: Hello. Thank you. Thank you all. I have the results of the silent INT. JUVENILE DETENTION, CINCINNATI - HOLDING CELL - MORNING Caroline Wakefield lies on a bench in a grey-walled holding cell. She wears paper slippers and her belt has been removed. Even youth can't disguise her hangover.
SOCIAL WORKER: .How old are you?
CAROLINE: SOCIAL WORKER Live with your parents?
SOCIAL WORKER: Live with your parents?
CAROLINE: SOCIAL WORKER Parents still together?
SOCIAL WORKER: Parents still together?
CAROLINE: SOCIAL WORKER Do you work?
SOCIAL WORKER: Do you work?
CAROLINE: I volunteer. I read to blind people. One day a week for two hours.
SOCIAL WORKER: In school?
CAROLINE: Cincinnati Country Day. The Social worker looks up from her questionnaire and sees Caroline for the first time.
SOCIAL WORKER: SOCIAL WORKER How are your grades?
CAROLINE: SOCIAL WORKER How are your grades?
SOCIAL WORKER: How are your grades?
CAROLINE: I'm third in my class.
SOCIAL WORKER: What's that mean?
CAROLINE: I get A's. All A's.
SOCIAL WORKER: You do? What else you do?
CAROLINE: ( her college resume ) I'm a National Merit Finalist. I'm on the Hi-Q team and the Math team. I'm in the Spanish Club. I'm a Thespian. I'm Vice-President of my class. I'm on the volleyball team. The social worker pushes the forms she's filling out away and looks again at Caroline
SOCIAL WORKER: You wanna tell me what you're doing here, Caroline?
BARBARA: Oh, honey. Are you all right? Caroline begins to cry into her mother's chest.
CAROLINE: Did you tell Dad?
BARBARA: Not yet.
CAROLINE: Are you going to?
BARBARA: I don't know.
CAROLINE: Is this bad for him?
BARBARA: What do you think? The streets are deserted. Their Saab wagon sits forlornly under grey skies in an uncovered public parking lot.
HELENA: ( quietly ) I am on the board of my son's school. I had a fundraiser for A.L.V. in my front yard. I have a right to know if my husband is a legitimate Of course he is. I've known him for twenty years and he doesn't jaywalk. Helena is relieved, but she's not looking at Arnie and when she does she sees him shaking his head in a very definitive, Arnie stands and continues talking as he walks to the windows and shuts the blinds one by one.
ARNIE: Of course he is. I've known him for twenty years and he doesn't jaywalk. Helena is relieved, but she's not looking at Arnie and when she does she sees him shaking his head in a very definitive, Arnie stands and continues talking as he walks to the windows and shuts the blinds one by one.
ARNIE: .Carl is a very important member of this community and when we're through suing the police and the district attorney and the DEA, they'll have to rename the public parks for your husband. The blinds are closed. Arnie crosses to Helena and talks very softly in her ear. She's a beautiful woman and Arnie manages to make this act seem both practical and Your husband is very good at his Helena leans back and looks at Arnie. He whispers more
ARNIE: ( whispering ) Your husband is very good at his Helena leans back and looks at Arnie. He whispers more
ARNIE: Which is smuggling illegal drugs into this country.
CASTRO: They're whispering. I can't hear them, but I know it. I smell conspiracy. I feel the lie vibrating out of the home.
GORDON: She ain't in on it.
CASTRO: I have dreams about this, actual dreams about busting the top people, the rich people, the white people.
GORDON: I'm telling you, she doesn't know She knows Arnie Metzger.
CASTRO: She knows Arnie Metzger.
GORDON: So does half of San Diego.
CASTRO: You want to make a wager on this?
HELENA: If all our assets are frozen and our "sales force" has scattered. How am I supposed to survive? I'm giving birth in three months. How do I get through this?
ARNIE: You're gonna get through it, but the first thing we do is get Michael Adler to represent Carl. We get Adler and we beat this thing.
HELENA: How much do I pay him?
ARNIE: I suspect he'll accept his payment in publicity.
ROBERT: Caroline? How well did you know this boy who overdosed? She looks up beseechingly.
CAROLINE: He didn't hang around us. He's like one of those hippie kids. I'm not part of that group. It was a party in all these rooms. His girlfriend who I barely know was completely hysterical. He's blue, he's puking. We didn't want to get in trouble, but what were we supposed to do? I mean, what would you have done if you had been us?
BARBARA: How well do you know this boy, Seth, who was driving? You know the police have charged him with a DUI and possession of marijuana.
CAROLINE: He's a friend. He's also like the only one who was dealing with the situation. He'd definitely had a few beers, but it's not like he wanted to drive. We didn't know what else to do. It wasn't my pot. She searches her parents' faces. It has been a convincing performance and she expects victory.
ROBERT: Okay, honey. We understand. You're mother and I have to talk. Caroline is confused by this reaction.
BARBARA: Honey, we'd like to talk alone. Caroline stands abruptly
CAROLINE: Like always. Caroline leaves the study and shuts the door harder than Robert and Barbara look at each other, raising their eyebrows and breathing deeply
ROBERT: I think she's lying.
BARBARA: Me, too.
ROBERT: ( reaching a decision ) We'll ground her, clip her wings a bit. School and scheduled activities and that's it until further notice. This has to be handled delicately. Dan Kelly, in the District Attorney's office, will probably help us out, quietly. Christ, this could be Honey, this is difficult, but we've all had our moments. I tried
BARBARA: Honey, this is difficult, but we've all had our moments. I tried
ROBERT: Stop. You experimented in college. I don't want to hear about that.
BARBARA: Should we take the quotes off experiment and call it what it is?
ROBERT: This is different.
BARBARA: To begin with, she's only sixteen I think she has to find out for herself, on her own. We have to allow her space
ROBERT: To begin with, she's only sixteen I think she has to find out for herself, on her own. We have to allow her space
BARBARA: I think she has to find out for herself, on her own. We have to allow her space
ROBERT: Space for what? To O.D. like that other kid? I will not send the message that this type of behavior is okay with her parents. Because it isn't. Correct?
BARBARA: We don't want to push her away. These are growing experiences. Robert looks at his wife, then it dawns on him.
ROBERT: How long have you known about this? No response.
ROBERT: ( yelling ) How long have you known?
BARBARA: Six months. I found some marijuana, that's all. And a little pipe about two inches long. I talked with her. She said her friends smoked pot and Explain to me how you could think that I shouldn't know about this. Explain to me how this wouldn't be relevant to me. As a parent.
ROBERT: Explain to me how you could think that I shouldn't know about this. Explain to me how this wouldn't be relevant to me. As a parent.
BARBARA: She asked me not to. He leaves the room.
SALAZAR: You watch and learn. I earn his trust. Then more pain. Then I appear with kindness. Within a week he will follow me around like a dog.
JAVIER: But will he be house-trained?
SALAZAR: When he loves me like a father, he will never tell anyone he was here. He will freely give the names of his superiors. Then we get them and they too will give us names. And eventually somebody will get us to Juan Obregon and the cartel will They enter the barracks.
SALAZAR: This is shameful. A disgrace. Francisco Flores Francisco cowers in the corners
SALAZAR: It's all right, son. It's all right. Salazar is here. You're among gentlemen, now. This shameful treatment will stop immediately. A GUARD appears in the doorway. Francisco is spooked.
SALAZAR: I want to know who is responsible for this treatment.
GUARD: Yes, sir!
SALAZAR: We aren't barbarians.
GUARD: Yes, sir!
SALAZAR: Bring this man a change of good clothes. Has he eaten?
GUARD: I don't know, sir.
SALAZAR: ( to Francisco ) You will dine with me from now on. Francisco moves closer to Salazar already feeling safe in his presence.
PROSECUTOR: This is a man who heads a large criminal organization with international contacts we can only begin to understand. Our case against him is very strong. He is not a flight risk. His flight is assured. The people ask that your honor denies The prosecutor sits. Carl's defense lawyer, MICHAEL ADLER, from the Georgetown party, stands and speaks.
ADLER: My client is no more a flight risk than your Honor or the able prosecutor. He is a pillar of his community, a family man with a wife and child in La Jolla, the community where he has made his home for over twenty years. As our defense will quickly show, my client is guilty of nothing more than being a handy target for an admitted criminal. Therefore we ask that you release Carl Ayala on his own recognizance. Adler sits. The JUDGE makes a quick decision.
JUDGE: I'm gonna deny bail. The judge SLAMS his gavel. The crowd is on its feet. Carl tries to get a glimpse of Helena. They make eye contact. Reporters from the press gallery are yelling for Helena. Arnie ushers her away.
REPORTER: Mrs. Ayala, were you aware your husband is the largest cocaine smuggler in America?
ADLER: Alleged, people, alleged. Helena gets into her car and slams the door. Adler faces the reporters.
REPORTER #2: Mrs. Ayala is it true your husband has ordered a hit on Eduardo Ruiz? Adler is in a role he relishes. Helena drives away. We move up to Gordon, who is watching from the hotel window across the street. He speaks into a walkie-talkie, and a car down below pulls out to follow Helena.
ADLER: Carl Ayala sits on the board of the Children's Hospital. He is heavily involved with Adult Literacy. He has a small boy and another child on the way. If you spread this kind of innuendo, you can expect legal recourse. Are we clear on this point?
ROBERT: I appreciate you coming in so early.
A.D.A. KELLY: Judge Wakefield, it's an honor to handle it for you. Consider it gone away. She's a minor; it probably would've expunged on her 18th birthday Still, this was a sensitive issue for me and I wanted to thank you Like I said, open container, P.I., Misdemeanor possession. Easy to make it disappear. For you, poof, it's gone. A.D.A. Kelly thinks a moment, then tries for tact.
ROBERT: Still, this was a sensitive issue for me and I wanted to thank you Like I said, open container, P.I., Misdemeanor possession. Easy to make it disappear. For you, poof, it's gone. A.D.A. Kelly thinks a moment, then tries for tact.
A.D.A. KELLY: Like I said, open container, P.I., Misdemeanor possession. Easy to make it disappear. For you, poof, it's gone. A.D.A. Kelly thinks a moment, then tries for tact.
A.D.A. KELLY: One thing bothers me. That kid they dropped off had coke and heroin in him. Serious amounts. He's lucky he lived. So I gotta ask: what's your daughter on?
ROBERT: I don't know what you mean.
A.D.A. KELLY: I mean, did you ask her? What kind of drugs has she tried? Robert is silent for a beat.
ROBERT: I. I don't really know.
A.D.A. KELLY: Is she in any kind of therapy. professional help?
ROBERT: No, of course not. She's one of the top students at her school.
A.D.A. KELLY: Well, I hope it stays that way.
ROBERT: ( into phone ) It's Robert. Wipe your schedule clean for the next three days. I'm tired of talking to experts who never set foot outside the beltway. It's time to see the front lines.
GORDON: You should see little Montel play. Little Montel is the next Maradona.
CASTRO: Maradona is a cokehead. Hand of God, my ass. We're wasting our time He won. He was a winner. That bothers you.
GORDON: He won. He was a winner. That bothers you.
CASTRO: Winners don't do coke. Or haven't you been reading the bumper stickers? Gordon looks at the monitor
GORDON: What do we have here?
HELENA: David, come back here this minute. As she closes distance the man stops juggling the ball and abruptly picks up David and begins swinging him around by his arms. David is having fun as Helena approaches.
HELENA: We're playing! The strange man swings David up so that he's under his arm.
DAVID: We're playing! The strange man swings David up so that he's under his arm.
STRANGE MAN: Yeah, this is fun.
HELENA: Please put down my son. The man holds David.
STRANGE MAN: Shouldn't let your kid wander off with strangers.
HELENA: Thank you. That's a valuable lesson. David, come on. The strange man holds David tighter so that he's no longer having fun. He begins to wriggle
STRANGE MAN: Mrs. Ayala This gets her attention
STRANGE MAN: Your husband owes a lot of money. Enough that snapping this kid's neck wouldn't nearly cover it. David begins to cry. Helena looks around wildly for help.
STRANGE MAN: You better come up with it in a hurry or your kid is going to disappear, and he won't turn up until the evening He drops David who runs to his mother.
STRANGE MAN: You get exactly one warning. The strange man moves away across the field.
STRANGE MAN: The first payment is three million He continues walking away.
GORDON: Are you getting this on tape?
CASTRO: I love my job. I love it. The next time I'm having a bad day you gotta remind me of right now and I'll get over it.
MANOLO: A group of us are going out tonight.
JAVIER: Guzman, Tomas, Esteban
MANOLO: Guzman, Tomas, Esteban
JAVIER: Your new friends.
MANOLO: Yeah. It should be fun. You wanna Not this time.
JAVIER: Not this time.
FRANCISCO: In my home I have B recently purchased a compact disc burner. I can make my own cd's, with whatever music I like, as if I bought them at the store, only I don't have to pay these crazy prices.
SALAZAR: We have much in common. We both attended school in the United States, and both of our fathers are engineers.
FRANCISCO: I got into stereo equipment when I was a kid. Some people don't notice the difference but it is very important to me.
SALAZAR: Of course it is. Have some more A soldier pours another glass of red for Francisco.
SALAZAR: Now, Francisco, my friend. I must know where these men are who killed my captains. Not where they were last week, but where they are today, and better still, tomorrow. You are clever. You can predict where they will be, can't you? Francisco begins to weep. Salazar slides a pad of paper toward Francisco who slowly begins writing.
FRANCISCO: I can't go home. I don't want to go. Please don't make me. He looks beseechingly at them.
JAVIER: It's not our decision.
FRANCISCO: I'll be killed.
JAVIER: Stop complaining. Nobody knows what you've been up to. They push him out of the SUV.
RUIZ: Carlos, I mean Carl, started out in the family connection business: real estate in Tijuana, fishing boats out of Ensenada, hydroponic raspberries. He met up with the Obregon brothers of the Tijuana Cartel who were interested in two things: entering society and using his fishing boats.
GORDON: So you pay off our customs officials?
RUIZ: In Mexico law enforcement is an entrepreneurial activity, this is not so true for the USA. Using regression analysis we made a study of the customs lanes at the border and calculated the odds of a search. The odds are not high, and we found variables that reduce the odds. We hire drivers with nothing to lose. Then we throw a lot of product at the problem. Some get stopped. Enough get through. It's not difficult.
CASTRO: You'd think he wasn't sitting here facing life in prison.
RUIZ: This has worked for years and it will continue to work for years. NAFTA makes everything more difficult for you. The border is disappearing. You people are like those Japanese soldiers left behind on deserted islands who think that World War II is still going on. Let me be the first to tell you, your government surrendered this war a long time ago.
GORDON: ( to Castro ) This attitude's not gonna help him any, is it?
RUIZ: I got greedy. I decided to bring a little in on my own and somebody tipped you off. That was my mistake. Carl would never be so stupid.
GORDON: He hired you. That was a mistake.
RUIZ: Carl and I were friends from childhood. He was loyal, that's not a mistake.
OFFICIAL: The busiest land border crossing in the world. Over forty-one thousand vehicles per day, twenty-two thousand pedestrians on foot. I think we do a pretty good job but we know a lot of drugs are still getting through.
ROBERT: Any idea how much?
OFFICIAL: I've read official estimates but I wouldn't bet my house on them. I've heard the entire cocaine supply for the United States can fit into four At least a half-dozen of those cars right out there are carrying a load of dope, with drivers employed by people who don't give a damn if they're caught or not.
ROBERT: What do you look for?
OFFICIAL: We ask questions and measure the answers. When something doesn't ring true, a fact that doesn't make sense, a slight hesitation, then it's off to secondary for a closer look. Before NAFTA we had about 1.9 million trucks a year. Now it's almost double. Pretty soon there'll be Mexican truck companies that will have as much freedom in crossing the border as American truck companies.
ROBERT: Any way we can do it better?
OFFICIAL: Sure. More money in intelligence on their side of the border. So we have a better idea who we're looking for. More dogs. More people. Supposed to be getting some giant x- ray machines to run the trucks through. Outside of martial law that's about the best you're gonna But, I should tell you, there are two things that really have us on edge right now. In the last six months seizures have tripled, even though we're pulling over the same number of cars. What does that tell you?
ROBERT: That triple the amount of stuff is going through.
OFFICIAL: Right. But, that's not the biggest problem. One of our Intel officers picked up information from DEA that traffickers have come up with a process, a chemical process, to turn coke into something else. It doesn't smell like coke. It doesn't look like coke. And what's worse, it doesn't react to field test. It could be anything. Maybe it's already happening. I mean, how would we Robert looks out at the border activity. It's anarchy.
HELENA: ( to phone ) Yes, hi Jenny, account number 4168 2245 3173. I need a cash advance. Helena walks into her kitchen. It's serene in the afternoon light. She fixes ice-cold lemonade and fills two plastic What's the largest amount I can get? ( listens ) Okay, I guess that'll have to do. Helena hangs up the phone. She takes the two cups of lemonade to the front door and steps outside.
HELENA: What's the largest amount I can get? Okay, I guess that'll have to do. Helena hangs up the phone. She takes the two cups of lemonade to the front door and steps outside.
GORDON: What do we do?
CASTRO: I don't know. There's a KNOCKING at the door of the van.
GORDON: What do you think she wants?
CASTRO: She's your girlfriend. Open it, talk about your kids. Gordon opens the door. Helena is standing there with the I so hope I didn't startle you. I thought you might like some cold Uh. Thank you. She hands the cups to him. Helena gathers herself.
HELENA: I so hope I didn't startle you. I thought you might like some cold Uh. Thank you. She hands the cups to him. Helena gathers herself.
GORDON: Uh. Thank you. She hands the cups to him. Helena gathers herself.
HELENA: I know this is a difficult situation and you're only doing your jobs. I don't bear you any ill-will, but I do have a small favor to ask.
CASTRO: You want to ask us a favor?
HELENA: A man threatened my children. These charges have attracted a lot of attention and it seems to be bringing all the nut-jobs out of the nut jar. Would you keep an eye out for anything out of the ordinary. I don't know what else to do.
GORDON: Of course, we will.
HELENA: Thank you. They shut the door to the van and sit for a moment.
CASTRO: It's probably poisoned. Gordon takes a big sip of his.
GORDON: It's good. Not too sweet.
OMITTED: EXT. TIJUANA STREET - MORNING This is a questionable neighborhood pushed up against the edge of poverty. Anna hurries across the street.
OMITTED: EXT. TIJUANA STREET - MORNING This is a questionable neighborhood pushed up against the edge of poverty. Anna hurries across the street.
OMITTED: EXT. TIJUANA STREET - MORNING This is a questionable neighborhood pushed up against the edge of poverty. Anna hurries across the street.
JAVIER: Anna. What's wrong? What do you I can't find Manolo.
ANNA: I can't find Manolo.
JAVIER: He's not here.
ANNA: He never came home last night. Was he with you?
JAVIER: He lets her into the apartment.
ANNA: I'm worried. Last time he was out late, I went through his clothes while he was asleep. She pulls out a plastic packet with the scorpion insignia and 911 stamped on it. Javier thinks a beat.
JAVIER: I'll find him.
JAVIER: What the fuck are you doing? You're supposed to be at work. Look at you. Manolo is sweaty and crazy-eyed.
MANOLO: It's no problem. I was just with everybody we work with.
JAVIER: Oh, really. General Salazar was No, but a lot of other people. You should come. You should come out with us.
MANOLO: No, but a lot of other people. You should come. You should come out with us.
JAVIER: Go home. Get cleaned up. Get to work. Salazar is heading down to Mexico City next week and I'm not getting left behind. Don't fuck this up.
HUGHES: The word going around is you're not that happy in your work. Maybe we can help. Hughes sticks a business card in Javi's pocket. Javi watches them walk away. It's all done so smoothly and quickly, it's over before Javi even knows what happened.
SETH: You know my dad takes eight red cold pills every day? He and my mom have cocktail hour every night, from six to seven, set your clock, two bourbons
CAROLINE: Maybe we could show up and smoke a little rock with them to unwind
SETH: Yeah, then some dope to take the edge off at the end of a long day.
CAROLINE: Have you done your homework, honey?
SETH: Yes, mom
CAROLINE: Then here's a little bump. They turn down a street with a lot of activity on it.
SETH: Drugs weren't even a problem until a hundred years ago when the white men in power declared them a problem. Opiates. But, who was using 'em? Chinese immigrants. Slave labor. And the darkies up in the inner cities dancing to them evil rhythms of ju- ju music. People on the fringe. Artists. Decadent rich people. And who got scared? White men in power. Who's scared today? White men in power. If J.P. Morgan and John D. Rockefeller ever admitted using, it'd be a whole different story. TWO YOUNG STREET DEALERS fall in step with them. One talks without moving his lips
STREET DEALER: What you want?
SETH: 911, and the come down. One dealer hurries ahead toward the doorway of a falling- down building.
STREET DEALER: How much?
SETH: Two hundred of C, hundred of the The dealer looks them over. He looks behind them down the Come on. We've been here before.
CAROLINE: Come on. We've been here before.
STREET DEALER: Then, let's see your money. Seth and Caroline are suspicious. They carefully show money they both have in their front right pockets. The dealer feints like he might grab it.
STREET DEALER: Up the steps. You the experts. You know what to do. They hurry up the steps into the dingy brownstone.
JUNKIE: What are you two, about twelve?
CAROLINE: Fuck off. They wait. Finally, the first dealer appears in the inner door and lets them through.
SETH: Caroline, give me your money. She hands over her money to Seth who pays and gets the drugs: gram baggies of rock stamped with a scorpion and "911," and wax-paper bindles of heroin, also labeled, "911." Caroline has been watching the transaction. Sketch makes slow eye contact with Caroline. After a beat
SKETCH: Goodbye. Caroline. Seth and Caroline make their way out of the building.
SETH: ( under his breath ) Yeah, right.
STREET DEALER: Now, get the fuck out of here. Caroline stops suddenly. She pulls Seth to her and kisses him hard. There's no better moment than the one right after scoring before you start using.
SETH: We'd like room 205.
DESKMAN: Then you hand me twenty-eight dollars.
SETH: I love this place. Seth dumps the drugs on the bedside table. From other pockets he extracts aluminum foil, lighter, tube. She trails away watching him fix the first hit.
SETH: Did Courtney Love play Nancy in Syd and Nancy?
CAROLINE: I think so. If she didn't she should I've only got maybe an hour. Then volleyball practice is over and I have to be home.
SETH: Why? Nobody's there. He prepares the first hit. She does it and lies back. He does one.
CAROLINE: ( blowing out the hit ) The maid. They ask her what time I get back. She spies for them. Seth starts kissing her. They try to get into it, but both of them are thinking about the drugs.
CAROLINE: I wish we could stay here. Just be here forever and ever. Make it a little home. She leans over to snort a tiny line of heroin.
SETH: I want to have sex and do a hit right as we're coming. Caroline's distracted by the line she's snorting. After a Seth begins undoing her jeans.
CAROLINE: Seth begins undoing her jeans.
ROBERT: Who are these guys?
ROBERT: He died in a liposuction surgery, Right. Now it's used by somebody from the Juarez Cartel, one of his lieutenants. Who knows? Every damn day there's birthday party. At first I thought they must have three hundred children, then I realized they're taunting us. Three miles away and we can't touch them. Ha, ha, ha. BINOCULAR POV: a child running in circles holding a clutch of colored balloons.
ROBERT: Who do we interface with on their What do you mean?
ROBERT: I mean, who runs interdiction on the Mexico side?
ROBERT: I want everyone thinking out the box for a second. What are we gonna do about Mexico? Come on, guys. Out of the box. The men on the plane just stare at him. Finally the REP FROM DEA leans forward.
ROBERT: REP FROM DEA From a DEA standpoint we need a vetted task force and matching funds. And cut the red tape on getting them equipment and training. Robert turns to the others.
ROBERT: Come on. I want to hear from everyone: FBI. Customs. Treatment. Is there anyone from treatment on this plane? Then I want an answer for why there isn't anyone from treatment. Look, we know we have to bust one of these cartels, Juarez or Tijuana, not just as a symbol, but hell yes, also as a symbol - they are symbols - and there's nothing wrong with sending a message. That's why when Carlos Ayala hired Michael Adler lead defense, I flew Ben Williams to San Diego to prosecute. Because he's the best we have, he's our symbol that we're serious about putting the top people away. So, as of right now, this flight only, consider the dam on new ideas thrown open. Still, no one else says anything. They watch Robert If I'm not mistaken, we got DEA, Pentagon, U.S. Attorneys office, about a billion dollars of budget right here. So what are you people waiting for?
ROBERT: If I'm not mistaken, we got DEA, Pentagon, U.S. Attorneys office, about a billion dollars of budget right here. So what are you people waiting for?
OMITTED: EXT. SAN DIEGO OFFICE BUILDING - DAY Establishing shot of a tall glass building in the downtown skyline of San Diego.
ARNIE: On a clear day you can see Mexico Arnie stands very close to Helena and looks at her profile.
ARNIE: This place is swept twice a day. I learned that in Miami in '85. Then the U.S. shut down the whole Caribbean, but it's a big game of wack-a-mole. Knock it down in Miami, it pops up here. And San Diego is so much more relaxing.
HELENA: Arnie, I need money. Somebody threatened my children. They want a first payment of three million Helena, if I had it I would give it to you, but I don't have that kind of money.
ARNIE: Helena, if I had it I would give it to you, but I don't have that kind of money.
HELENA: Arnie, help me. Doesn't anyone owe us money?
ARNIE: Yes, I told you before, there are people who owe you money but they're not paying. There's too much heat on Carl.
HELENA: Please. Tell me who Carl sells to. Arnie thinks.
ARNIE: Even if I knew I wouldn't tell you. You do not want to come into contact with these people. Only Carl knows who they are. That's his real asset. Ruiz doesn't know them. They don't know Ruiz. Church and State.
HELENA: What about legitimate businesses? We own a construction concern, real Laundromats for the washing of money. Unfortunately, Carl had only one successful business.
ARNIE: Laundromats for the washing of money. Unfortunately, Carl had only one successful business.
HELENA: Don't you have some good news? Isn't there something positive you could There isn't. Helena looks Arnie in the eyes.
HELENA: ( vulnerable ) Sometimes I wonder what I'll do if Carl doesn't get out. I'm not very adept at being on my own. I've always had a man in my life. Always.
ARNIE: I remember when I first met you: little Helen Watts from the wrong side of somewhere. I had a feeling even then that your survival instincts were pretty well honed.
HELENA: I'm glad you think so, but I'm picturing a debt-ridden, thirty-two year-old mother whose ex-husband is being compared to Pablo Escobar. And I'm wondering who would want to be with someone like that? It takes a great effort for Arnie not to answer.
OMITTED: INT. ARMORED SUV - MEXICO - DAY Javier and Manolo ride through a nice neighborhood in Mexico City. Javi isn't familiar with the roads and drives A young lady, ROSARIO, early 20's, sexy and vulnerable, rides in the back of the SUV.
OMITTED: INT. ARMORED SUV - MEXICO - DAY Javier and Manolo ride through a nice neighborhood in Mexico City. Javi isn't familiar with the roads and drives A young lady, ROSARIO, early 20's, sexy and vulnerable, rides in the back of the SUV.
OMITTED: INT. ARMORED SUV - MEXICO - DAY Javier and Manolo ride through a nice neighborhood in Mexico City. Javi isn't familiar with the roads and drives A young lady, ROSARIO, early 20's, sexy and vulnerable, rides in the back of the SUV.
OMITTED: INT. ARMORED SUV - MEXICO - DAY Javier and Manolo ride through a nice neighborhood in Mexico City. Javi isn't familiar with the roads and drives A young lady, ROSARIO, early 20's, sexy and vulnerable, rides in the back of the SUV.
OMITTED: INT. ARMORED SUV - MEXICO - DAY Javier and Manolo ride through a nice neighborhood in Mexico City. Javi isn't familiar with the roads and drives A young lady, ROSARIO, early 20's, sexy and vulnerable, rides in the back of the SUV.
ROSARIO: You two don't like me, do you? Manolo laughs and looks her up and down. Javi watches her in the rearview mirror.
JAVIER: We don't have an opinion on you.
ROSARIO: ( to Javi ) Maybe it's because I'm getting an apartment nicer than anything you'll ever see in your life? Javi says nothing.
ROSARIO: ( re: the neighborhood ) I can't believe the old man kept his The General is a man of his word.
JAVIER: The General is a man of his word.
ROSARIO: They will say anything to get what they want, but then you remind them, it's always tomorrow, tomorrow, Occupational hazard, I guess. Javi just looks at her in the rearview mirror.
ROSARIO: His friend is giving us the apartment so it's not like he paid. It's more like a favor. Javier pulls the SUV to the curb in front of a beautiful colonial-style apartment complex in the verdant neighborhood.
ROSARIO: You don't have the keys. Oh that's perfect. Are you an idiot? Manolo knocks again. They wait a long beat.
MANOLO: There's supposed to be someone here to let you in. Finally, the door swings open and a BODYGUARD is standing there. Rosario SQUEALS and sweeps past him into the vast space. The bodyguard motions for Manolo to put the bags inside the door. Manolo sets the bags down and sees another MAN standing a few feet away. The man wears sunglasses. His complexion is strange and his neck is bandaged. The body guard escorts Manolo back outside where he hears Rosario's happy LAUGHTER drifting down from an upstairs INT. SUV - DAY Manolo gets into the truck. He's shaken by what he's just Madrigal's alive.
MANOLO: Madrigal's alive.
JAVIER: Porfirio Madrigal is not dead. I just saw him. A long beat as Javier considers this.
MANOLO: Porfirio Madrigal is not dead. I just saw him. A long beat as Javier considers this.
JAVIER: This is why Salazar is so interested in cleaning up Tijuana. Madrigal, who's supposed to be dead, owns him. And Madrigal is making a move on Juan Obregon. Javier calmly drives away.
MANOLO: Javi! Come on. Don't pull this you don't care bullshit. This is incredible information. It must be. We keep our mouths shut.
JAVIER: We keep our mouths shut.
ROBERT: I think we may have found our Mexican Drug Czar. It's this General, Salazar. At least I'll have somebody on the other side I can talk to.
BARBARA: Does this mean you're going to be gone more? A long silence.
ROBERT: Another silence.
BARBARA: You might want to pencil in a little face-time with your daughter.
ROBERT: Because I'm at the edge of my capabilities, Robert.
BARBARA: Because I'm at the edge of my capabilities, Robert.
ROBERT: The first thing we have to do is present a unified front.
BARBARA: If you start in on the war metaphors I'm going to drive this car into a fucking telephone pole.
ROBERT: Look, I'm as worried as you are
BARBARA: No, I don't think so. Leave me alone, give me money. That's what I get from our daughter. She has a way of shutting me out that seems very Yeah, well, she has a way of self- medicating that probably seems familiar, too. She looks at him, stung.
ROBERT: Yeah, well, she has a way of self- medicating that probably seems familiar, too. She looks at him, stung.
BARBARA: I'm not the one who has to have three scotches just to walk in the door and say hello.
ROBERT: I have a drink before dinner to take the edge off my day. That's Oh, it is?
BARBARA: Oh, it is?
ROBERT: Yeah, because the alternative is to be bored to death.
BARBARA: Why don't you go in and tell your daughter how bored you are. She puts the car in reverse and drives away. He stands for a moment, steaming.
CAROLINE: ( faking the best she can ) Who is it? I'm going to the bathroom. She's coping now, full parallel process mode: she dumps the last heroin on the back of her hand and snorts it, checking her nose in the mirror as she reaches for a can of air freshener which she sprays into the air.
CAROLINE: One minute. She takes the remaining crack, lighters, tubes, little smudgy druggy bits of paraphernalia and carefully places it all in a hiding place above the bathroom cabinet. She pauses a beat, then opens the door, and tries to brush by her father while avoiding his eyes.
CAROLINE: Excuse me Robert grabs her by the arms. He pushes her against the wall and looks at her pupils. He looks at her fingernails. The blister on her thumb from working the lighter is red and You're not going anywhere, young She stands there; she's very high. Robert sniffs the air. He throws open cabinets, searching for drugs. He sees the smudge mark on the counter left by the charred aluminum foil.
ROBERT: You're not going anywhere, young She stands there; she's very high. Robert sniffs the air. He throws open cabinets, searching for drugs. He sees the smudge mark on the counter left by the charred aluminum foil.
ROBERT: Where is it? Where are the drugs? Where are they?
CAROLINE: Fuck you. I wasn't doing anything. You're like the Gestapo. Robert KICKS the cabinets.
ROBERT: Fuck me? Oh, okay. Fuck me. Fuck Robert is losing it. He throws stuff around the bathroom and then, for the first time, looks up. He sees the long light in the box atop the medicine cabinet and it dawns on I'm going to ask you one time to tell me the truth so that I can help She just stares.
ROBERT: I'm going to ask you one time to tell me the truth so that I can help She just stares.
ROBERT: Okay, young lady, that's it.
CAROLINE: Like I give a fuck. Robert reaches above the medicine cabinet and pulls out a charred spoon. It confuses him. He throws it into the sink. He pulls out another spoon. He pulls out crumpled bindles, rolled up, encrusted dollar bills, exhausted lighters, a pill bottle, an empty pint of vodka. The detritus of drug addiction keeps on coming, filling up the sink. Robert stares at it, the amount and complexity has him momentarily baffled.
ROBERT: What is wrong with you? What? You're going away. You're getting help somewhere.
CAROLINE: You can't make me.
ROBERT: Oh, yes I can.
OMITTED: INT. - SAN DIEGO - DAY Javier drinks toward downtown. He's sipping a Burger King soft-drink. On the seat next to him is a shopping bag from Target. He takes an exit. Javier pulls into the underground parking lot of a fancy office tower.
OMITTED: INT. - SAN DIEGO - DAY Javier drinks toward downtown. He's sipping a Burger King soft-drink. On the seat next to him is a shopping bag from Target. He takes an exit. Javier pulls into the underground parking lot of a fancy office tower.
OMITTED: INT. - SAN DIEGO - DAY Javier drinks toward downtown. He's sipping a Burger King soft-drink. On the seat next to him is a shopping bag from Target. He takes an exit. Javier pulls into the underground parking lot of a fancy office tower.
JAVIER: Where are we going? Hughes sticks out his hand.
HUGHES: Special Agent Hughes, Drug Enforcement Administration of the United States.
JAVIER: ( ignoring the niceties ) Where are you taking me? The agents exchange a look.
JOHNSON: Somewhere safe.
JAVIER: A place we have, that we know is It's really safe.
JOHNSON: A place we have, that we know is It's really safe.
JAVIER: It's really safe.
HUGHES: It's really safe.
JAVIER: Not for me.
JOHNSON: Okay. Where would you like to go?
JAVIER: It's important that we work together. Mexico. America. One hand washing the other.
JOHNSON: We agree.
JAVIER: So. maybe you tell me about your informants in our operations.
JOHNSON: ( confused by this ) We thought maybe you'd have that kind of information for us.
JAVIER: ( feigning surprise ) This is a very different proposition. Johnson and Hughes exchange a glance.
JOHNSON: We pay for that kind of information. A fat kid in an inner-tube floats behind them.
JOHNSON: Is that what you're talking about, Javi makes eye contact with one agent, then the other.
JAVIER: Ten years ago Tijuana had no drug problem. Now it is epidemic. Ten years ago America takes a hammer to Pablo Escobar, a hammer to the Miami drug trade, and you allowed everything to move to my country. You dumped the problem at our feet. Now, drug use is epidemic. Now, the treatment centers are full and get no state money. They survive on donations and what they get for building doghouses to sell to the
HUGHES: Javi, You want to come see us again, you're going on the box. No more of this water-wing bullshit.
JOHNSON: You wanna tell me what the hell that was all about?
HUGHES: He's got something. We just have to be patient.
CARL: How's David?
HELENA: How's David? How's David? He's terrific, Carl.
CARL: We watched his father get dragged away by federal agents. I don't even know how to begin to tell him where you are or when you're coming back. Or if you're coming back. She can't even look at him.
HELENA: We watched his father get dragged away by federal agents. I don't even know how to begin to tell him where you are or when you're coming back. Or if you're coming back. She can't even look at him.
CARL: ( beat ) We'll get through this, I promise. I'll make it up to you
HELENA: ( snapping ) How? Supportive letters from prison while I'm being kicked out of our ( beat ) Do you have any idea what is happening out here? Our credit cards are maxed. The people at the bank, you should see their faces when I walk in there. I have a letter from the government telling me that anything I sell from our house will be taken against an income tax lien. Our friends are behaving like the crowd at a public hanging. Nobody will help us. Nobody will take us in. Nobody wants anything to do with us. So tell me, Carl, how you're gonna make it up to ( losing it ) Tell me again how we'll get through this, and maybe while you're at it you can put your hand up against the glass so we can have a tender moment of connection.
CARL: Tell me what to do, Carl. I need guidance, not a fucking platitude. I'm not bringing a child into the kind of life I grew up with. I won't do it. I want our life back. Carl looks at his wife as if he is trying to weigh her. He thinks, then leans forward
HELENA: Tell me what to do, Carl. I need guidance, not a fucking platitude. I'm not bringing a child into the kind of life I grew up with. I won't do it. I want our life back. Carl looks at his wife as if he is trying to weigh her. He thinks, then leans forward
CARLOS: I built our house and I don't want to lose it. Every stone, every brick, every board. My business. That would take a lot of private study. That you don't have time for. I suggest you look into the Coronel. Into selling it. If you can stomach it, you should look into it. That painting is very valuable.
HELENA: I don't understand.
CARLOS: Look into the Coronel; otherwise, there is nothing to do.
MARTY: So it was my birthday an my ex-wife was getting remarried and I was in some church basement telling a bunch of strangers how it was a good day because I didn't have to eat out of a dumpster. That was enough to send me out on big one. I've been thinking a lot about the first step: that I came to believe I was powerless over alcohol and that my life had become unmanageable. See my disease tells me I don't have a disease. That I'm fine. That it's my birthday and I can have one little drink, then one little line, then one little Valium, then two more fat lines, then two more 10 mil Valium. Six months later I wake up in a sober living house in Philly. And I'm from Dallas, people. It's a disease an allergy of the body and an obsession of the mind. I know that now. So my name's Marty and today I'm a grateful recovering alcoholic who didn't eat out of a dumpster. Thanks. And Marty looks to Caroline who didn't relate to one word he Hi. I'm Caroline. I'm not sure I'm an alcoholic. I mean I don't really like to drink. For someone my age it's so much easier to get drugs than beer. I don't know, this is really weird and I'm really nervous. People in the room nod encouragingly.
CAROLINE: ( slowly, very nervous ) Hi. I'm Caroline. I'm not sure I'm an alcoholic. ( beat ) I mean I don't really like to drink. For someone my age it's so much easier to get drugs than beer. I don't know, this is really weird and I'm really nervous. People in the room nod encouragingly.
CAROLINE: I guess I'm angry. I mean I think I'm really angry about a lot of stuff, but I don't know what exactly. She blushes, and stares out the window.
ART APPRAISER: Tamayo. Carrington. A simply wonderful collection of Mexican Modern. Give me three months. I know several collectors in South America, very discreet.
HELENA: I don't have three months.
ART APPRAISER: It takes time to find the proper How much will you give me in cash? The appraiser taps out some numbers on a calculator and shows the figure to Helena.
HELENA: How much will you give me in cash? The appraiser taps out some numbers on a calculator and shows the figure to Helena.
HELENA: You must be joking. That's a fraction of their value.
ART APPRAISER: I'm sorry, but that is the figure I can get today. Helena turns her back. She walks to a window and looks out, then surveys the contents of her beautiful home.
HELENA: ( snapping ) Get out. Get out of my house. Helena turns and sees David in the doorway. She goes to It's all right. We're have a disagreement, that's all. The art appraiser passes them on his way out.
HELENA: It's all right. We're have a disagreement, that's all. The art appraiser passes them on his way out.
OMITTED: INT. HELICOPTER - DAY Robert and Sheridan ride in the back of the chopper. Each looks out his own window. A newspaper on the seat between them shows a front page photo of General Salazar, exultant, and the headline reads in Spanish, "Salazar Named Chief of Anti-Narcotics Operations."
OMITTED: INT. HELICOPTER - DAY Robert and Sheridan ride in the back of the chopper. Each looks out his own window. A newspaper on the seat between them shows a front page photo of General Salazar, exultant, and the headline reads in Spanish, "Salazar Named Chief of Anti-Narcotics Operations."
OMITTED: INT. HELICOPTER - DAY Robert and Sheridan ride in the back of the chopper. Each looks out his own window. A newspaper on the seat between them shows a front page photo of General Salazar, exultant, and the headline reads in Spanish, "Salazar Named Chief of Anti-Narcotics Operations."
SALAZAR: I recruited the best men in Mexico for my task force and put them through a rigorous screening process. Not only physical, but also psychological.
ROBERT: I'd like to bring you up to Washington, walk you around our side of things, and share some of the information we've been able to develop on your cartels.
SALAZAR: That would be very helpful to me. Also, I received the offer from DEA and the FBI to train some of my men at Quantico. I think this will be extremely useful, a good way for us to absorb some of your methods.
SALAZAR: I've been too busy to completely settle in. Salazar proffers a chair and they sit next to each other like Brezhnev and Nixon. PHOTOGRAPHERS begin SNAPPING pictures. After a few moments, Salazar waves them away, and they lower their cameras and leave.
ROBERT: You've been making very good progress against the Tijuana cartel.
SALAZAR: Yes, I am confident that Juan Obregon will be taken into custody before the end of the year. But, you must understand that it is very difficult because of corruption in the police force. We get a tip that he is one place, then we get there and he is already gone, having been warned by someone on our side.
ROBERT: Hopefully the exchange of training methods and information between our countries will help with this problem.
SALAZAR: Yes, I hope so as well.
ROBERT: Let me ask you a related question. We've talked about the supply side, but what about demand? What is your policy for treating addiction?
SALAZAR: Addicts treat themselves. they overdose and then there's one less to worry about. Robert cannot respond.
RUIZ: This is ridiculous. Why is there no When the DEA gets into the narcotics business, then we'll stay at the Four Seasons. They walk down a hotel hallway. Two more AGENTS stand outside Room 407. Gordon opens the door and they enter.
GORDON: When the DEA gets into the narcotics business, then we'll stay at the Four Seasons. They walk down a hotel hallway. Two more AGENTS stand outside Room 407. Gordon opens the door and they enter.
CASTRO: Eddie, how you like your new home? I hope you hate it as much as I do. Ruiz looks around with disgust. He's accustomed to finer places. He goes to a window and looks out. RUIZ'S POV: of the Federal Court building not far away.
RUIZ: This is not what my lawyers Gordon pours himself a cup of coffee.
GORDON: Fuck your lawyers. You aren't getting any cappuccino or Biscotti either.
FRANK: He first came to me in January. That would've been nineteen eighty- seven. He wanted to rent warehouse space along the harbor. I didn't ask too many questions; I'm a businessman also.
MRS. BERRY: I told Mr. Ayala there were irregularities in his tax return. And I couldn't represent him unless we could explain this.
SHEILA: I was the company secretary from 1991 to 1994. I supposedly worked for all six companies. But. they weren't. I mean, it was just one empty office with a desk and a telephone. We never sold anything the whole time I was there. Sometimes people came and got paid. I don't really know what we did.
PROSECUTOR: Did Mr. Ayala say where the money came from?
SHEILA: No, and I didn't ask.
PROSECUTOR: Where do you think it came from? Carl's lawyer, Adler, is on his feet
KAUFMAN: This speculation
PROSECUTOR: I'll rephrase. Did you feel like you were engaged in a legal Sheila is reluctant to answer.
SHEILA: No, not really. Helena catches Carl's eye and they share a grim moment.
OMITTED: INT. CARL'S UPSTAIRS STUDY - DAY Helena sits at Carl's office desk. On the desk in front of her are the lists she found and an encrypted cell phone. Helena picks up the phone. Her hands are shaking. She is crying as she dials. A voice on the other end answers.
OMITTED: INT. CARL'S UPSTAIRS STUDY - DAY Helena sits at Carl's office desk. On the desk in front of her are the lists she found and an encrypted cell phone. Helena picks up the phone. Her hands are shaking. She is crying as she dials. A voice on the other end answers.
OMITTED: INT. CARL'S UPSTAIRS STUDY - DAY Helena sits at Carl's office desk. On the desk in front of her are the lists she found and an encrypted cell phone. Helena picks up the phone. Her hands are shaking. She is crying as she dials. A voice on the other end answers.
OMITTED: INT. CARL'S UPSTAIRS STUDY - DAY Helena sits at Carl's office desk. On the desk in front of her are the lists she found and an encrypted cell phone. Helena picks up the phone. Her hands are shaking. She is crying as she dials. A voice on the other end answers.
HELENA: A friend. of Carlos Ayala. There is a long pause.
HELENA: I'm on a special phone, may I speak You may speak.
HELENA: I have a job for you and I don't have much time.
FRANCISCO: You were followed by the police, but they won't hear us over the children. I want to use a bomb.
HELENA: You're kidding. Can't you shoot him or something?
FRANCISCO: I don't really like guns. You shoot someone in the head three times and some doctor will keep them alive.
HELENA: When will you do it?
FRANCISCO: I don't know. Eduardo Ruiz is the only real witness against Carl. The security is very tight. There may not be a way.
HELENA: There's always a way. If people get to the Pope or the President, you can get to him. Francisco laughs.
FRANCISCO: Careful. You're sounding like your husband, Mrs. Ayala.
OMITTED: INT. JAVI'S APARTMENT - NIGHT Anna sits in the living room, staring. She appears too upset to speak. The apartment is cleaner. There have been other changes. There's a new rug.
OMITTED: INT. JAVI'S APARTMENT - NIGHT Anna sits in the living room, staring. She appears too upset to speak. The apartment is cleaner. There have been other changes. There's a new rug.
JAVIER: What? What is it?
ANNA: It's very hard for me to come and tell you this. Javier just watches her.
ANNA: It's Manolo. He's going to do something stupid. I'm worried that he'll get himself killed. He keeps watching.
ANNA: He's saying he's going to talk to the Americans. Become an informer. He says they pay a lot of money.
JAVIER: Why does he need money?
ANNA: He has debts. He has gambling debts. He owes a lot of money.
JAVIER: How much?
ANNA: Nine thousand dollars. A long beat.
JAVIER: What is he planning on telling them?
ANNA: Well, you know, he's going to say about Madrigal. and Salazar. Javier just looks at her.
ROBERT: ( into phone ) Nobody saw her leave? ( beat ) Yes. I understand. He hangs up. He stands and reaches for his jacket.
ROBERT: I have to go. I have to go home.
BARBARA: Should we bring the police into this?
ROBERT: No, not yet.
SETH: ( genuinely surprised ) She's not at that place you sent She snuck away. And we haven't seen her. She hasn't come home.
ROBERT: She snuck away. And we haven't seen her. She hasn't come home.
SETH: Oh, man
ROBERT: She hasn't called you?
SETH: I tried to talk to her when she was up there, but they wouldn't put me I'm surprised she hasn't called.
HUSTLERS: What you want? Rock? Rock? Hey, what you want?
ROBERT: Can you tell me anything? Do you have any ideas?
SETH: I don't know what to say.
ROBERT: I'm not the police. I don't care about experimentation. She's a kid. I'm worried to death.
SETH: You won't say anything to my parents?
ROBERT: I don't give a fuck about your parents
SETH: We sometimes went downtown to score.
ROBERT: The West End. We buy it off the I can stop, you know, and she can't. Two people, really similar, we can talk about anything, but for me it's like a weekend thing, then I get my shit together, and for her it's You don't know what the hell you're talking about. You're a cocky seventeen year-old and you don't have a clue what the stakes are. You don't know the value of the life you've yet to throw away. And neither does she.
SETH: The West End. We buy it off the I can stop, you know, and she can't. Two people, really similar, we can talk about anything, but for me it's like a weekend thing, then I get my shit together, and for her it's You don't know what the hell you're talking about. You're a cocky seventeen year-old and you don't have a clue what the stakes are. You don't know the value of the life you've yet to throw away. And neither does she.
ROBERT: You don't know what the hell you're talking about. You're a cocky seventeen year-old and you don't have a clue what the stakes are. You don't know the value of the life you've yet to throw away. And neither does she.
FACE: ( through the window ) What do you want?
ROBERT: ( through the window ) What do you mean, what do I want?
FACE: Rock or dope, man?
ROBERT: I don't want anything.
SETH: Hey man, I'm sorry. I'm just trying to help.
ROBERT: You want to help? Stay the fuck away from her.
ROBERT: I'm looking for my daughter. The dealer looks at him with disgust, turns his back, and waves everyone else away. Robert slams his fist against the steering wheel. He slams it again and again. He stops and pulls away, just as
SKETCH: What the fuck do you want? SOMEBODY outside says something. Sketch walks over to a duffle bag and extracts some product. Caroline's eyes are glued to it as Sketch hands it through the door. Sketch sees her staring at the drugs. He comes back to bed.
SKETCH: You want some of that? Caroline nods.
SKETCH: What you gonna do to get some of What you gonna do? She turns her back to him, pouting. He laughs.
CAROLINE: What you gonna do? She turns her back to him, pouting. He laughs.
SKETCH: What you gonna do? She turns her back to him, pouting. He laughs.
SKETCH: Maybe a taste. He reaches over beside the bed where there is a small tray. On the tray is a rig, spoon, several powders, and an eye dropper. He pulls the candle over and rapidly fixes a speedball. He pulls the fluid into the neck of the syringe and holds it up the light. It has Caroline transfixed.
SKETCH: Feed this to you like a little bird. He squirts the tiniest amount of fluid into the air. It arcs in the candlelight.
CAROLINE: You want this? She nods.
SKETCH: You want this? She nods.
SKETCH: This is the Express train. Baby turnin' pro and getting down in a big, big hole. Her concentration is entirely, hypnotically focused on the Sketch moves the syringe toward her lips.
SKETCH: Kiss it. Kiss your new mommy hello. Caroline moves her mouth toward the side of the syringe, her lips part. Sketch pulls the sheet back, exposing her legs. He grips one powerful hand around her ankle and squeezes. Veins stand out on her foot. He slides the needle into the largest vein and slowly depresses the plunger. Caroline watches, then her head tilts back, then forward, she GROANS, sexually and slumps against the pillows, her eyes half-open, her lips twitching. Sketch puts the rig back on the tray, then admires Caroline's beauty for a second before starting to fuck her again.
ADLER: Your honor, it has come to our attention that your honor, while in private practice, previously represented the town of Seal Beach in their stop-work suit against the Police Department of Seal Beach. We believe this disqualifies you from hearing this case and we therefore move for a temporary suspension while this is investigated. The judge is surprised to hear this.
JUDGE: Mr. Adler, this is a most unusual Nonetheless, your honor, we feel that our client deserves every fairness afforded under the law.
ADLER: Nonetheless, your honor, we feel that our client deserves every fairness afforded under the law.
JUDGE: If this is in any way designed to delay the testimony of Eduardo Ruiz. The judge considers.
JUDGE: We'll recess until 9:00 am Monday morning. And I'll see counsel in He slams the gavel down again.
CASTRO: Remember when we sat on that mob guy, that chef, for like six months?
GORDON: Oh, man, I've never eaten so good in my life. Why don't you develop a useful skill?
CASTRO: Yeah, like turning into a beautiful They reach the car.
RUIZ: Would you mind if today we walked? It's one block. I could use the fresh air.
OMITTED: INT. FRANCISCO'S CAR - CONTINUOUS Across the street, Francisco, encrypted cell phone to his ear, watches from his own car as Gordon, Castro, and Ruiz stand by their car without getting in, then walk away from the car.
FRANCISCO: ( into phone ) They're not getting into the car. What are they doing? They're walking right at me. The men start across the street toward Francisco.
HELENA: ( into phone ) You've got a gun. Get out of the car and shoot him in the head.
FRANCISCO: ( into phone ) They're going to walk right past me.
CASTRO: Stay here. I'll get the car. Castro runs down the street for the court parking lot. Other AGENTS are running toward Gordon and Ruiz.
GORDON: ( to the other agents ) I saw this guy at the courthouse. ( beat ) The car Gordon takes off running, yelling for Castro.
GORDON: ( yelling ) INT. CRUISER - DAY Castro turns the ignition exactly at the moment he sees Gordon yelling and waving his arms
OMITTED: INT. SIDEWALK CAFE - SAN DIEGO - DAY A fire truck and paramedic unit WHIZZES by. Manolo sits at an outdoor cafe table, waiting. He can't help looking around at the attractive people, but he's also nervous. Suddenly two MEN, recognizable as Salazar's OFFICERS from the desert drug bust, sitting at a nearby table, rise and move to Manolo's table.
MAN #1: Manolo, how are you? They take seats uncomfortably close to Manolo.
MAN #2: Manolo, have we interrupted? You're looking around like you're expecting someone.
MANOLO: No. I'm looking for the waiter. I want to order.
MAN #1: What are you gonna have?
MANOLO: A steak.
MAN #1: Well, if you like steak, we know a much better place. We'll take you That's okay, really. They each take Manolo by an arm.
MANOLO: That's okay, really. They each take Manolo by an arm.
MAN #2: Manolo, we should really be going now, before it gets too crowded.
MANOLO: I was going to feed them wrong information. Feed them lies to. it was for. The men say nothing. After a beat
MANOLO: Don't tell Anna I died like this. Tell her it was something else. Tell her it was official business. Tell her that I died doing something honorable. Please, tell her that for me.
MAN #1: Turn around. Javi hesitates before turning. We're on Javi as we hear the GUNSHOT. Javi doesn't flinch. Manolo's body falls into the Javi stands there, waiting.
MAN #1: You got anything you want to say? Javi shakes his head. Finally, another GUNSHOT. After a beat, a hand reaches out of Javi's shoulder.
MAN #1: Sorry about that. we had to be They walk back to the SUV.
SOMEBODY ELSE: Are you sure you don't have anything to tell us? Javi says nothing, doesn't even acknowledge them. We hear a
ARNIE: That was a stupid thing you did. Incredibly stupid.
HELENA: I tried, Arnie. And, I will continue to try.
ARNIE: Have you gone crazy? You are not Carl. You aren't as good as Carl. They are moving the trial to a high security location. The press has gone berserk. The jury will be influenced. Stay out of things. Let us try to win the case.
HELENA: That is going to be rather difficult when all the evidence is against us. Helena steps closer to Arnie, close enough that her breasts are almost touching his chest.
ARNIE: Helena, please. This is out of your I know I made things worse. I know that and I'm sorry, but Arnie I need something from you. Something only you can help me with. Helena looks searchingly into his eyes.
HELENA: ( softly ) I know I made things worse. I know that and I'm sorry, but Arnie I need something from you. Something only you can help me with. Helena looks searchingly into his eyes.
ARNIE: I need an introduction to the Obregon I can't do that. Helena leans closer to him.
HELENA: I need an introduction to the Obregon I can't do that. Helena leans closer to him.
ARNIE: I can't do that. Helena leans closer to him.
HELENA: I figured out what Carl was up to and I need your help. Will you help EXT. LABORATORY RESEARCH FACILITIES - DAY An establishing shot of a hi-tech company within shooting distance of the Salk Institute.
ROBERT: About the other night, I'm sorry.
BARBARA: Me, too.
ROBERT: God, I don't get it. Are we supposed to say to ourselves, be prepared to lose her, be prepared to lose our Why does this happen to someone? How does it happen?
BARBARA: I don't know.
OMITTED: INT. CLUB PLATINUM - DAY A shrewd Obregon Lieutenant, JUAN MARQUEZ, 40, sits at a table opposite Helena. The Strange Man who both threatened Helena's child and executed Francisco sits in another chair.
MARQUEZ: Mrs. Ayala. Thank you for coming. I am Juan Marquez, I work for Mr. Obregon. I believe you know my associate, "Tigrillo," the Little Helena nods to Tigrillo
HELENA: Yes, he threatened to kill my five year-old son. I was under the impression I would be meeting Juan Obregon.
MARQUEZ: No, this is not possible. And I thank you for coming down here, though I suspect it's been a pointless Why do you say that, Mr. Marquez?
HELENA: Why do you say that, Mr. Marquez?
MARQUEZ: I hear these stories. Your husband in jail. His business in chaos. Various people fighting over the My husband is the victim of an informer in your organization, not That is not true, Mrs. Ayala. Your route is compromised. Perhaps it is time for me to deal with other distributors in California.
HELENA: My husband is the victim of an informer in your organization, not That is not true, Mrs. Ayala. Your route is compromised. Perhaps it is time for me to deal with other distributors in California.
MARQUEZ: That is not true, Mrs. Ayala. Your route is compromised. Perhaps it is time for me to deal with other distributors in California.
HELENA: I don't think you're going to do You don't? Listen to this woman in a man's world, a very violent world.
MARQUEZ: You don't? Listen to this woman in a man's world, a very violent world.
HELENA: There are plenty of other suppliers in Mexico.
MARQUEZ: But not in whose interest it is to help you out of debt. Helena reaches into her bag and pulls out the Spastic Jack action figure. She puts it on the desk.
HELENA: My husband had been working on something he called, The Project for the Children. Are you aware of this?
MARQUEZ: I don't know. Perhaps I remember We have the ability to change the color, odor, and physical property of cocaine.
HELENA: We have the ability to change the color, odor, and physical property of cocaine.
MARQUEZ: You want to smuggle narcotics in Mr. Espastico Jacobo. That's nothing Not in. Juan Marquez is confused.
HELENA: Not in. Juan Marquez is confused.
HELENA: This doll is cocaine. Juan picks up Spastic Jack and looks at him. He bangs it on the desk.
HELENA: Every part, from his ears to his accessory belt, is high-impact, pressure-molded cocaine. Odorless. Undetectable by dogs. Undetectable by anyone.
MARQUEZ: I don't believe you. She takes out the "solvent" and puts it on his desk.
HELENA: Get a bowl.
HELENA: Try it. Juan takes out a razor blade and chops the dried substance into two white powder lines. He hands a silver straw to You first.
MARQUEZ: You first.
HELENA: I'm six months pregnant. I won't do Fine, then we don't have deal.
MARQUEZ: Fine, then we don't have deal.
HELENA: Fine, then we don't have a deal. She stands. He watches her a beat, then smiles.
MARQUEZ: Okay, okay. He leans down and quickly snorts a line. After a beat.
MARQUEZ: That's good coke.
HELENA: It should be. It's yours. I want our debt forgiven. I want to be the exclusive distributor of Obregon Brothers Cocaine for the United States. And I want the principle witness against my husband, Eduardo Ruiz, killed.
MARQUEZ: Perhaps. Perhaps. I'm afraid I must first ask you to pass a test. I asked the same of your husband and he succeeded with flying colors. Helena waits. Juan Marquez reaches in his desk and pulls out a quarter kilo of cocaine. He pushes it across the desk.
MARQUEZ: Take this back with you. Deliver it safely to Tigrillo in San Diego and we have a deal.
HELENA: That's crazy. My husband is on trial for smuggling.
MARQUEZ: Exactly, and this is how I know I'm not getting into business with the U.S. Government. She puts the quarter key in her bag and stands.
HELENA: You will help me with my other Deliver that safely to Tigrillo in San Diego. And we have a deal. Tigrillo escorts her out of the room.
MARQUEZ: Deliver that safely to Tigrillo in San Diego. And we have a deal. Tigrillo escorts her out of the room.
OMITTED: INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY Javier is hooked up to a polygraph machine watched closely by a POLYGRAPH OPERATOR. Hughes and Johnson watch as Javi talks into a tape recorder on the table.
OMITTED: INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY Javier is hooked up to a polygraph machine watched closely by a POLYGRAPH OPERATOR. Hughes and Johnson watch as Javi talks into a tape recorder on the table.
OMITTED: INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY Javier is hooked up to a polygraph machine watched closely by a POLYGRAPH OPERATOR. Hughes and Johnson watch as Javi talks into a tape recorder on the table.
OMITTED: INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY Javier is hooked up to a polygraph machine watched closely by a POLYGRAPH OPERATOR. Hughes and Johnson watch as Javi talks into a tape recorder on the table.
OMITTED: INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY Javier is hooked up to a polygraph machine watched closely by a POLYGRAPH OPERATOR. Hughes and Johnson watch as Javi talks into a tape recorder on the table.
OMITTED: INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY Javier is hooked up to a polygraph machine watched closely by a POLYGRAPH OPERATOR. Hughes and Johnson watch as Javi talks into a tape recorder on the table.
OMITTED: INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY Javier is hooked up to a polygraph machine watched closely by a POLYGRAPH OPERATOR. Hughes and Johnson watch as Javi talks into a tape recorder on the table.
JAVIER: .And I have the electronic serial numbers for their cellular phones. They change them every twenty-four hours but I have a contact at MexTel who can get me the new ESNs within Javi finishes talking and sits back. Agent Hughes shuts off the tape recorder and looks at the polygraph operator who nods approval. Hughes and Johnson exchange a look. They are dumbstruck.
HUGHES: That's good shit.
JAVIER: Now that you have what you want, let's talk about how I get what I Oh, don't worry, Javier, you're not gonna have any problems there.
JOHNSON: Oh, don't worry, Javier, you're not gonna have any problems there.
HUGHES: I want to take a minute and talk about what type of precautions you're taking to protect yourself. When Salazar and Madrigal go down, they might send someone to see you.
JAVIER: You worry about getting me the things that I want. I'll worry about myself. There's a beat. Javier seems discomfited. The two agents notice this and exchange looks.
JOHNSON: You should feel good about this.
JAVIER: I feel like a traitor.
OMITTED: EXT. BORDER CROSSING AUTOMOBILE CHECKPOINT - DAY Javi goes into Mexico. Pan over to Helena's Mercedes.
OMITTED: EXT. BORDER CROSSING AUTOMOBILE CHECKPOINT - DAY Javi goes into Mexico. Pan over to Helena's Mercedes.
CUSTOMS OFFICER: Please step from the car, Ma'am.
HELENA: I'm in a hurry
CUSTOMS OFFICER: Step from the car, Ma'am. This won't take long from your day. Helena gets out of her car.
OFFICER: Ma'am, we have to ask you to come with us. She follows them toward the Customs building.
CUSTOMS MATRON: Ma'am, we have reason to believe you may have illegal drugs hidden beneath your clothing. I need to conduct a pat down search. Supervisory Inspector Haig will witness the You've got to be kidding me. I'm pregnant. What if I refuse?
HELENA: You've got to be kidding me. I'm pregnant. What if I refuse?
CUSTOMS MATRON: This pamphlet explains the law and your rights under it. You're welcome to read it first. It says we have the authority to conduct this search. Would you like to read it first or shall we proceed?
MRS. CASTRO: Montel. Oh, Montel. Gordon hugs her.
MRS. CASTRO: You know how much he cared about you. You do, don't you?
GORDON: MRS. CASTRO I know if he could have it back somehow, he wouldn't do it differently or have it any other way. He wouldn't. He loved his job. Another AGENT hustles toward him from the other direction, the direction of the cars.
MRS. CASTRO: I know if he could have it back somehow, he wouldn't do it differently or have it any other way. He wouldn't. He loved his job. Another AGENT hustles toward him from the other direction, the direction of the cars.
AGENT: Excuse me, Agent Gordon. Mrs. Helena Ayala left Club Platinum in Tijuana. The Obregon Brothers' place. They stopped her at the border but she was clean. She's in San Diego Gordon runs for his car.
HELENA: Did you get it?
ARNIE: What are you thinking, calling me at home with a message like that? You've compromised me and our relationship Helena sits confidently on his couch.
HELENA: ( making fun of Arnie ) The place is swept twice a day. I learned that down in Miami in '85. ( hard ) Arnie. I'm the housewife. I belong to the most exclusive country club in La Jolla that accepts Latinos. Until recently, I believed my husband imported hydroponic strawberries, which I donated at the school fair. Arnie reaches into a desk drawer and pulls out a quarter- kilo baggy identical to the one Juan Obregon gave her in It's the same stuff? From the rainy day stash?
HELENA: It's the same stuff? From the rainy day stash?
ARNIE: It's the same. What happened to what they gave you? Helena puts the bag in her purse.
HELENA: I'm desperate, but I'm not stupid. I flushed it in the bathroom of their godawful nightclub.
OMITTED: INT. ROBERT AND BARBARA'S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING Robert sleeps in his clothes on top of the covers. Barbara is asleep beside him. The phone rings. Robert answers. Barbara watches.
ROBERT: SHERIDAN ( V.O. ) I'm sorry. Did I wake you? Robert looks at Barbara and shakes his head. She gets up.
ROBERT: No, it's all right. There's a beat.
ROBERT: What? I thought Madrigal was dead. I thought it was verified.
ROBERT: I'll get there as soon as I can.
ROBERT: ( to Sheridan ) I have to call you back.
BARBARA: The silver wedding cup.
BARBARA: My Leica's gone.
ROBERT: So's the video camera.
BARBARA: At least she's alive. Robert turns for the door.
BARBARA: Where are you going?
ROBERT: She'll be at a pawn shop in an hour. Ten minutes after that she'll be at her dealer's. If I find him, maybe I find her.
SETH: Hey man, what are you doing?
ROBERT: Seth has to be excused. He's going on a field trip.
HELENA: Come on. Time to go. The CLOWN tries to catch their attention with some mime, but they ignore him.
HELENA: ( under her breath ) Women's room, stall two. ( loud ) Should we stop for ice-cream?
DAVID: Tigrillo disappears into the restaurant. As Helena pulls out of the Fun Zone parking lot, an unmarked DEA cruiser falls in behind her.
SETH: I don't know, maybe we missed her.
ROBERT: I can't believe you used to bring my daughter here, to this place.
SETH: Hey man, back the fuck up. To this place. What's that shit? Right now, all over this country, a hundred thousand white people from the suburbs are driving around downtown asking every black person they see, You got any drugs? You know where I can get drugs? What kind of effect you think this has on the psyche of a black person, on their possibilities? If you sent a hundred thousand black people into your neighborhood, Indian Hills, and they asked every white person they saw, hey, you got any drugs?, within a day, your friends and their kids would be selling. It's market forces, man. The product's marked up three hundred percent. You can go out on the street and make five hundred bucks in two hours and then do whatever you want for the rest of the day. You think white people would still be going to law school? There's a beat.
ROBERT: You're starting to piss me off. Get out of the car. Robert and Seth get our of the car and walk across the street.
SETH: You're gonna get me killed. Robert shoves Seth toward the door. Seth knocks. The door opens a crack and Sketch's face appears.
SKETCH: What do you want? Robert moves around Seth.
ROBERT: I'm looking for my daughter, Caroline. She comes here.
SKETCH: This is a business. Get the fuck outta here.
ROBERT: I need to find my daughter. I'll pay you. Sketch pulls a gun and shoves it against Robert's cheek.
SKETCH: Who the fuck do you think you are? Where the fuck do you think you are? Why the fuck do you think I shouldn't just put you in a dumpster?
ROBERT: I have money
SKETCH: I got money.
ROBERT: I'll pay you a thousand dollars. I have it in my wallet.
SKETCH: I want your money, I'll take your Just tell me where she is. Sketch pushes Robert back into the hall. Sketch sees Seth lurking there.
ROBERT: Just tell me where she is. Sketch pushes Robert back into the hall. Sketch sees Seth lurking there.
SKETCH: ( to Seth ) Don't do that shit again. Sketch slams the door in their face.
SETH: Great. What a good idea.
SETH: Man, I'm telling you. Don't do this vigilante thing. Either the cops find her or she'll call you. I Robert looks at him, carefully.
JAVIER: ( calling out ) Anna. Anna, please. Let me in. He KNOCKS again.
JAVIER: Come on. You can't stay locked in your house all day. Finally, the door cracks open. Anna has clearly not been out of the house since the last time we saw her.
JAVIER: I know this is a tragedy, but you have to realize that good has come out of it. She looks at him.
JAVIER: If Manolo hadn't gone and told them what he did then Salazar and Madrigal would never have been brought to justice. He did a great thing for Tijuana. He did a great thing for I want to believe you. I really do.
ANNA: I want to believe you. I really do.
JAVIER: You will believe me, because it's EXT. SKETCH'S APARTMENT - DAY Seth walks up the steps and into the building. A beat later he reappears and continues down the street. Robert emerges from across the street and follows at a guarded EXT. STREETS - DAY Seth walks along the seedy neighborhood street. He approaches the Villa Elaine. He turns up the steps and disappears Robert follows him.
SETH: Open the door. Open the fucking door, man. A MAN'S VOICE comes from the other side of the door.
MUFFLED VOICE: Go away! Robert closes the distance. Seth pounds harder.
SETH: I know she's in there. Let me talk to her.
MUFFLED VOICE: I don't know what you're talking about. Go away! Robert reaches the door. Seth sees him.
SETH: I know she's in there. Robert kicks the door in.
JOHN: Hey, I haven't touched her Caroline is passed out on the bed. Robert goes to her as the John scrambles for his clothes. She stirs and sees him
CAROLINE: ( really out of it ) Hi, Daddy.
CAROLINE: It's gonna be great. I mean, I'm okay and all, because, see, I met a guy, he's in this pretty famous band They've invited me to write lyrics for them, I'm gonna be able to do that and maybe sing, too. not at first, but later. Caroline gets lost in her grandiose vision. Robert looks over at her as she drifts off into a nod. A moment later she's awake and rambling again.
CAROLINE: ( sounding completely crazy ) I've been doing research for the school paper, that's what I've been doing, like on assignment kind-of, I've seen some stuff you wouldn't believe, but I'm gonna write it all down into lyrics. They think I'm really good, everybody says so, what do you think? Robert fights back tears. He reaches over and takes his daughter's hand.
OMITTED: INT. CLUB PLATINUM OFFICE - DAY Juan Marquez sits across the desk from Javi. Tigrillo and PABLO, 30's, are also in the meeting.
OMITTED: INT. CLUB PLATINUM OFFICE - DAY Juan Marquez sits across the desk from Javi. Tigrillo and PABLO, 30's, are also in the meeting.
OMITTED: INT. CLUB PLATINUM OFFICE - DAY Juan Marquez sits across the desk from Javi. Tigrillo and PABLO, 30's, are also in the meeting.
OMITTED: INT. CLUB PLATINUM OFFICE - DAY Juan Marquez sits across the desk from Javi. Tigrillo and PABLO, 30's, are also in the meeting.
OMITTED: INT. CLUB PLATINUM OFFICE - DAY Juan Marquez sits across the desk from Javi. Tigrillo and PABLO, 30's, are also in the meeting.
OMITTED: INT. CLUB PLATINUM OFFICE - DAY Juan Marquez sits across the desk from Javi. Tigrillo and PABLO, 30's, are also in the meeting.
OMITTED: INT. CLUB PLATINUM OFFICE - DAY Juan Marquez sits across the desk from Javi. Tigrillo and PABLO, 30's, are also in the meeting.
OMITTED: INT. CLUB PLATINUM OFFICE - DAY Juan Marquez sits across the desk from Javi. Tigrillo and PABLO, 30's, are also in the meeting.
MARQUEZ: Salazar and Madrigal are no longer with us. A feat none of these people could get accomplished. Juan nods toward Pablo and Tigrillo.
MARQUEZ: You're going to be made the Special Assistant to the new drug Czar, which makes you a very valuable law enforcement officer. I hope you like to travel because we have plans for Juarez and El Paso, Nogales, Sinaloa, Jalisco, Javi just stares at him for a long moment, then looks off.
ROBERT: ( into phone ) How was she?
BARBARA: ( into phone ) I'm really not sure. She seemed to recognize it wasn't Serenity Oaks. It's a pretty hard-core facility, but at least we know where she is. ( beat ) Maybe it's what she needs now.
AGENT: Big day. You're a star. Ruiz walks over and sits across from Gordon, switching off the radio show he's listening to. Gordon looks up from his Go shower. You smell. There is a KNOCK on the front door. An AGENT goes to answer
GORDON: Go shower. You smell. There is a KNOCK on the front door. An AGENT goes to answer
AGENT: Who is it?
RUIZ: Fuck off. Gordon watches the interchange
GORDON: Where's the love gone, Eddie? You'll be testifying for at least ten days. What if we stop feeding you? Ruiz begins to eat hungrily.
RUIZ: You expect me to be grateful for spending the rest of my life looking over my shoulder.
GORDON: That thought makes me feel awful. Ruiz pushes eggs into a piece of toast.
RUIZ: Can't you for a second imagine none of this had happened? That my drugs had gone through. What would have been the harm? A few people get high who are getting high anyway. Your partner is still alive. We avoid having breakfast together. Don't you see this means nothing? That your whole life is pointless?
GORDON: You're breaking my heart.
RUIZ: The worst thing about you, Monty, is you realize the futility of what you're doing and you do it anyway. I wish you could see how transparent you are. This food tastes like shit.
GORDON: So go shower already.
RUIZ: You only got to me because you were tipped off by the Juarez Cartel, who's trying to break into Tijuana. You're helping them. You work for a drug dealer too, Monty. Ruiz stands and heads for the bathroom.
GORDON: ( yelling after him ) And shave. You better look nice and believable for the jury. Ruiz disappears into the bathroom and slams the door behind ( to another agent ) It's like having another wife. The agent laughs. There's another KNOCK on the door.
GORDON: ( to another agent ) It's like having another wife. The agent laughs. There's another KNOCK on the door.
GORDON: Who is it?
SOMEBODY ELSE: Hurry up. It's getting cold. Gordon moves to the side of the door and pulls his gun. The other agent opens the door. A MAN with a breakfast tray enters. Gordon puts the gun to the side of his head.
GORDON: Call an ambulance. Hurry. Gordon tries the bathroom door. It's stuck. He gets it open a crack. There's a body against the other side. He INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS Ruiz is on the floor in convulsions.
GORDON: ( yelling ) Call the ambulance. ( to Ruiz ) Don't die on me. You will not die on me. Do you hear me? Don't you die on me. Ruiz's convulsions get worse, his claw-like fingers scratch across the tile.
OMITTED: INT. COURTROOM - SAN DIEGO - DAY The court is packed. Helena and Arnie watch from the gallery. The judge is at the bench. The prosecutor rises
PROSECUTOR: Your honor, ladies and gentlemen of the jury. Because of the sudden death of Eduardo Ruiz, the people have decided that at this point we cannot continue our case against Carl Ayala. The court ERUPTS. Reporters scatter. Helena cheers.
OMITTED: INT. WHITE HOUSE OFFICE - DAY Robert Wakefield enters the office of the Chief of Staff, who looks up from what he's doing, which is reading Robert's report, and is already mid-sentence.
JAVIER: ( to the press ) This seizure is one of the largest seizures in Mexican history. It represents the first bilateral effort of the American DEA and the Mexican
OMITTED: INT. HEADQUARTERS, I.N.C.D. - MEXICO - DAY Robert and Javi walk through the headquarters, a nondescript government building. Robert extracts photographs of the bust from a manila envelope. The crates of cocaine are clearly marked "911."
ROBERT: The cocaine brand, 911, is an East Coast brand, a Juarez Cartel brand, and you must know it usually comes through into El Paso?
JAVIER: I'm aware of that.
ROBERT: So what's it doing in Tijuana? Javi looks Robert Wakefield squarely in the eye. He shrugs.
ROBERT: Let me ask you a hypothetical question: if Salazar worked for Madrigal and the Juaraz cartel, and he went out of power, would it mean the Juarez Cartel is losing influence?
JAVIER: It could mean that, yes.
ROBERT: That would probably mean the Tijuana Cartel is gaining power?
JAVIER: It's possible.
ROBERT: Is it possible to have a Drug Czar in Mexico who isn't connected in some war to one of the cartels? Javi thinks along time before answering.
JAVIER: Yeah, it's possible. if you're prepared to die.
ARNIE: Carl, I'm running late. I'm coming right now Behind Arnie in the office there is a movement of SHADOW.
CARLOS: Don't bother.
CARLOS: So Arnie, when were you going to tell me about the 3 million dollars we got in from San Francisco two days after I got arrested?
CARLOS: And you didn't feel like you could trust my wife with this news?
CARLOS: You had it all figured out. You move into my house. You raise my kids. You sleep with my wife. It was a good plan, Arnie.
CARLOS: So my wife is lying?
CARLOS: Arnie, do think there's a difference between a reason and an excuse, because I don't think there is.
CARLOS: Goodbye Arnie.
HELENA: Who was that?
CARLOS: Arnie. He's not going to be able to make the barbecue. Carl and Helena share an embrace and a kiss.
HELENA: Come downstairs. Everyone is waiting. Carl and Helena turn to leave the room and Montel Gordon is standing in the doorway with his glass of champagne.
GORDON: Hello, Helena. What a great party.
CARLOS: Who are you?
GORDON: Nobody. I'm a nobody who arrested you, but your wife is a murderer. Gordon takes a sip of his drink. Two SECURITY OFFICERS appear in the doorway behind him.
SECURITY OFFICER: Hey, you can't be in here.
GORDON: I'm a cop.
SECURITY OFFICER: I don't care.
HELENA: ( to the guards ) Throw him out of here. The security officers grab Gordon. There is a scuffle. Gordon falls to the floor by the window. They are wrestling. As they wrestle, Gordon reaches out and, unnoticed, affixes TINY LISTENING DEVICE underneath the desk. He continues to struggle with the guards. Helena and Carlos start from the room.
GORDON: ( calling out ) You didn't win, Helena. You lost everything. Tell your children a nice bedtime story. How you killed my partner.
PRESS SECRETARY: .a sterling reputation and close friend of the President, recently confirmed into The Office of National Drug Control Policy. our new Drug Czar, Robert Hudson Wakefield. Applause from the assembled PRESS. The Press Secretary signals and Robert walks to the podium. He looks back to the Chief of Staff; he stares out at the expectant faces and television lights and camera flashes.
ROBERT: ( reading his prepared speech ) The War on Drugs is a war on our nation's most precious resource. our children. Sixty-eight million children have been targeted by those who perpetrate this war and protecting those children must be priority number ( beat ) There has been progress and there have been failures, but where we have fallen short I see not a problem but an opportunity. Robert is becoming increasingly uneasy. He glances at the Chief of Staff who bores into him. He looks again at his speech. With great effort he continues.
ROBERT: An opportunity to correct the mistakes of the past while laying a solid foundation for the future. This takes not only new ideas, but perseverance. This takes not only resources, but courage. This takes not only government, but families. Robert stops again as though the words are choking him.
ROBERT: I've. I've outlined a ten-point plan, representing a new bilateral He can't finish. Everyone stares at Robert. The crowd of reporters senses something is wrong.
ROBERT: I can't do this. If there is a War on Drugs then our own families have become the enemy. How can you wage war on your own He walks out of the room. The crowd waits, expecting him to Robert walks down a corridor and out of the White House.
CAROLINE: On the good days I feel like I get it, like it all makes sense. I can stay in the moment. I don't have to control everything in the future. And I believe everything is going to work out fine. On the bad days, I just want to grab the phone and start dialing numbers. I want to pull my hair and run through the streets screaming. But, thanks to the people I've met in these rooms, people like Margaret and Jim and Sarah, people who've taught me how to listen, I'm pretty sure I'll make it through today. Caroline is finished sharing.
ROBERT: My name is Robert. This is my wife, Barbara. We're Caroline's parents. We're just hear to listen.
THE END: Writers : Stephen Gaghan
