RENTON: ( voice-over )
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o ) SICK BOY
SICK BOY: Goldfinger's better than Dr. No. Both of them are a lot better than Diamonds are Forever a judgement reflected in its relative poor showing at the box office, in which field, of course, Thunderball was a notable success.
RENTON: ( v.o )
SICK BOY: I would say, in those days, he was a muscular actor, in every sense, with all the presence of someone like Cooper or Lancaster, but combined with a sly wit to make him a formidable romantic lead, closer in that respect to Cary Grant.
RENTON: ( v.o )
BEGBIE: No way would I poison my body with that shite, all they fucking chemicals, no fucking way.
TOMMY: It's a waste of your life, Rents, poisoning your body with that INT. RENTON FAMILY HOME, LIVING ROOM. NIGHT Renton's father and mother sit at the table eating. Renton is seated but not eating.
FATHER: Every chance you've ever had, you've blown it, stuffing your veins with that filth.
GAV: Get off that stuff, Rents and get a job. It's not as bad as it looks. While you're here, you don't fancy buying a cooker, do you?
RENTON: ( v.o )
SWANNEY: Are you serious?
RENTON: Yeah. No more. I'm finished with that shite.
SWANNEY: Well, it's up to you.
RENTON: I'm going to get it right this time. Going to get it set up and get off it for good.
SWANNEY: Sure, sure. I've heard it before.
RENTON: The Sick Boy method. They both look at Sick Boy
SWANNEY: Yeah, well, it surely worked for him.
RENTON: He's always been lacking in moral fibre.
SWANNEY: He knows a lot about Sean Connery.
RENTON: That's hardly a substitute.
SWANNEY: you'll need one more hit.
RENTON: No, I don't think so.
SWANNEY: To see you through the night that lies ahead. Freeze Frame on Swanney.
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: Mikey. It's Mark Renton. Can you help me out?
RENTON: ( v.o ) ( on screen ) ( v.o )
MIKEY: Opium suppositories. Ideal for your purpose. Slow release, like. Bring you down gradually. Custom fucking designed for your needs.
RENTON: I want a fucking hit.
MIKEY: That's all I've got: take it or leave it. Renton sticks his hand down the back of his trousers and sticks the suppositories into his rectum. Feel better now?
RENTON: For all the good they've done me I might as well have stuck them up my arse. He smiles.
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o ) ( v.o )
MONTAGE: A lorry on a building site dumps a load of bricks, B52's shed their load on Vietnam, the Blue Peter elephant, etc.
RENTON: Now. Now I'm ready.
SICK BOY: You Only Live Twice?
RENTON: SICK BOY
SICK BOY: Running time?
RENTON: One hundred and sixteen minutes.
SICK BOY: Lewis Gilbert.
RENTON: Lewis Gilbert.
SICK BOY: Eh - Ian Fleming?
RENTON: Eh - Ian Fleming?
SICK BOY: Fuck off! He never wrote any of them.
RENTON: OK, so who was it, then?
SICK BOY: You can look it up. Sick Boy throws across a worn copy of a film guide. Renton cannot be bothered to pick it up. How are you feeling since you came off the skag? For myself, I'm Who wrote it?
RENTON: Who wrote it?
SICK BOY: But you're looking better, it has to be said. Healthier. Radiant You don't know, do you?
RENTON: You don't know, do you?
SICK BOY: And I wondered if you'd care to go to the park tomorrow.
RENTON: The park?
SICK BOY: Tomorrow afternoon. Usual set-up.
RENTON: Who wrote it?
SICK BOY: Roald Dahl.
RENTON: Roald Dahl. Fuck me.
RENTON: ( v.o )
SICK BOY: It's certainly a phenomenon in all walks of life.
RENTON: What do you mean?
SICK BOY: Well, at one time, you've got it, and then you lose it, and it's gone for ever. All walks of life: George Best, for example, had it and lost it, or David Bowie, or Lou Reed -
RENTON: Some of his solo stuff's not bad.
SICK BOY: No, it's not bad, but it's not great either, is it? And in your heart you kind of know that although it sounds all right, it's actually just shite.
RENTON: So who else?
SICK BOY: Charlie Nicholas, David Niven, Malcolm McLaren, Elvis Presley. -
RENTON: OK, OK, so what's the point you're trying to make?
SICK BOY: All I'm trying to do is help you understand that The Name of the Rose is merely a blip on an otherwise uninterrupted downward What about The Untouchables?
RENTON: What about The Untouchables?
SICK BOY: I don't rate that at all.
RENTON: Despite the Academy award?
SICK BOY: That means fuck all. The sympathy vote.
RENTON: SICK BOY
SICK BOY: That's your theory?
RENTON: That's your theory?
SICK BOY: Yeah, Beautifully fucking illustrated.
RENTON: Give me the gun. EXT. PARK. DAY Through the sight again. This time a Skinhead and his muscle-bound dog are in view. Sick Boy and Renton talk like Sean Connery.
SICK BOY: Do you see the beast? Have you got it in you sights?
RENTON: Clear enough, Moneypenny. This should present no significant The gun fires and the dog yelps, jumps up and bites its owner ( the Skinhead ).
SICK BOY: For a vegetarian, Rents, you're a fucking evil shot.
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: Good luck, Spud.
SPUD: Now remember
RENTON: Now remember
SPUD: If they think you're not trying, you're in trouble. First hint of that, they'll be on to the DSS, 'This cunt's no trying' and your Giro is fucking finished, right?
RENTON: If they think you're not trying, you're in trouble. First hint of that, they'll be on to the DSS, 'This cunt's no trying' and your Giro is fucking finished, right?
SPUD: But try too hard
RENTON: But try too hard
SPUD: And you might get the fucking job.
RENTON: It's a tightrope, Spud, a fucking tightrope.
SPUD: It's a tightrope, Spud, a fucking tightrope.
RENTON: It's a tightrope, Spud, a fucking tightrope.
SPUD: My problem is that I tend to clam up. I go dumb and I can't answer any questions at all. Nerves on the big occasion, like a Try this. Renton unfolds silver foil to reveal some amphetamine. Spud dips in a finger and takes a dab. He nods in appreciation as he tastes it. Renton leaves the packet in Spud's hand.
RENTON: Try this. Renton unfolds silver foil to reveal some amphetamine. Spud dips in a finger and takes a dab. He nods in appreciation as he tastes it. Renton leaves the packet in Spud's hand.
SPUD: A little dab of speed is just the ticket.
MAN 1: Well, Mr. Renton, I see that you attended the Royal Edinburgh Indeed, yes, those halcyon days.
RENTON: Indeed, yes, those halcyon days.
MAN 1: One of Edinburgh's finest schools.
RENTON: Oh, yes, indeed. I look back on my time there with great fondness and affection. The debating society, the first eleven, the soft know of willow on leather
MAN 1: I'm an old boy myself, you know?
RENTON: Oh, really?
MAN 1: Do you recall the school motto?
RENTON: Of course, the motto, the motto
MAN 1: Strive, hope, believe and conquer.
RENTON: Exactly. Those very words have been my guiding light in what is, after all, a dark and often hostile world. Renton looks pious under scrutiny.
MAN 2: Mr. Renton
RENTON: MAN 2
MAN 2: You seem eminently suited to this post but I wonder if you could explain the gaps in your employment record?
RENTON: Yes, I can. The truth well, the truth is that I've had a long-standing problem with heroin addiction. I've been know to sniff it, smoke it, swallow it, stick it up my arse and inject it into my veins. I've been trying to combat this addiction, but unless you count social security scams and shoplifting, I haven't had a regular job in years. I feel it's important to mention this. There is silence. A paper clip crashes to the floor.
SPUD: No, actually I went to Craignewton but I was worried that you wouldn't have heard of it so I put the Royal Edinburgh College instead, because they're both schools, right, and we're all in this together, and I wanted to put across the general idea rather than the details, yeah? People get all hung up on details, but what's the point? Like which school? Does it matter? Why? When? Where? Or how many O grades did I get? Could be six, could be one, but that's not important. What's important is that I am, right? That I am.
MAN 1: Mr. Murphy, do you mean that you lied on your application?
SPUD: Only to get my foot in the door. Showing initiative, right?
MAN 1: You were referred here by the Department of Employment. There's no need for you to get you "foot in the door", as you put it.
SPUD: Hey. Right. No problem. Whatever you say, man. You're the man, the governor, the dude in the chair, like. I'm merely here. But obviously I am. Here, that is. I hope I'm not talking too much. I don't usually. I think it's all important though, isn't it?
MAN 2: Mr. Murphy, what attracts you to the leisure industry?
SPUD: In a word, pleasure. My pleasure in other people's leisure.
WOMAN: What do you see as your main strengths?
SPUD: I love people. All people. Even people that no one else loves, I think they're OK, you know. Like Beggars.
WOMAN: Homeless people?
SPUD: No, not homeless people. Beggars, Francis Begbie one of my mates. I wouldn't say my best mate, I mean, sometimes the boy goes over the score, like one time when we me and him were having a laugh and all of a sudden he's fucking gubbed me in the face, Mr. Murphy, {leaving your friend aside,} do you see yourself as having any weaknesses?
WOMAN: Mr. Murphy, {leaving your friend aside,} do you see yourself as having any weaknesses?
SPUD: No. Well, yes. I have to admit it: I'm a perfectionist. For me, it's the best or nothing at all. If things go badly, I can't be bothered, but I have a good feeling about this interview. Seems to me like it's gone pretty well. We've touched on a lot of subjects, a lot of things to think about, for all of us.
MAN 1: Thank you, Mr. Murphy. We'll let you know.
SPUD: The pleasure was mine. Best interview I've ever been to. Thanks. Spud crosses the room to shake everyone by the hand and kiss them.
RENTON: ( v.o )
SPUD: A little too well, if anything, a little too well, that's my only fear, compadre.
RENTON: Another dab?
SPUD: Would not say no, would not say no.
BEGBIE: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o )
TOMMY: Well, sure it was Wednesday morning, we were in the Volley playing pool, that much is true.
TOMMY: ( v.o )
RENTON: Can I borrow this one?
RENTON: ( v.o )
BEGBIE: All right. Nobody move. The girl got glassed and no cunt leaves here until we find out which cunt did it. A man stands up from one of the tables.
MAN: And who the fuck do you think you are? Begbie kick the Man in the groin. Another moves towards him but is blocked by the Men surrounding the girl. Soon the whole mass dissolves into a brutal scrum, in which Begbie plays a prominent part. Up on the balcony, the rest of the gang watch in silence.
RENTON: ( v.o )
TOMMY: How's it going with Gail?
SPUD: No joy yet.
TOMMY: How long is it?
SPUD: Six weeks.
TOMMY: Six weeks!
SPUD: It's a nightmare. She told me she didn't want our relationship to start on a physical basis as that is how it would be principally defined from then on in.
TOMMY: Where did she come up with that?
SPUD: She read it in Cosmopolitan.
TOMMY: Six weeks and no sex?
SPUD: I've got balls like watermelons, I'm telling you.
GAIL: I read it in Cosmopolitan.
LIZZY: It's an interesting theory.
GAIL: Actually it's a nightmare. I've been desperate for a shag, but watching him suffer was just too much fun. You should try it with What, and deny myself the only pleasure I get from him? Did I tell you about my birthday?
LIZZY: What, and deny myself the only pleasure I get from him? Did I tell you about my birthday?
GAIL: What happened?
LIZZY: He forgot. Useless motherfucker.
TOMMY: Useless motherfucker, that's what she called me. I told her, I'm sorry, but theses things happen. Let's put it behind us.
SPUD: That's fair enough.
TOMMY: Yes, but then she finds out I've bought a ticket for Iggy Pop the same night.
SPUD: Went ballistic?
TOMMY: Big time. Absolutely fucking radge. 'It's me or Iggy Pop, time to So what's it going to be?
SPUD: So what's it going to be?
TOMMY: Well, I've paid for the ticket.
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o ) ( v.o )
RENTON: Excuse me, I don't mean to harass you, but I was very impressed by the capable and stylish manner in which you dealt with that situation. I thought to myself: she's special.
DIANE: What's your name?
RENTON: What's your name?
DIANE: Where are you going, Diane?
RENTON: Where are you going, Diane?
DIANE: I'm going home.
RENTON: Where's that?
DIANE: It's where I live.
RENTON: I'll come back if you like, but I'm not promising anything. Diane halts abruptly as a taxi pulls up.
DIANE: I'll come back if you like, but I'm not promising anything. Diane halts abruptly as a taxi pulls up.
RENTON: I'll come back if you like, but I'm not promising anything. Diane halts abruptly as a taxi pulls up.
DIANE: Do you find that this approach usually works, or, let me guess, you've never tried it before. In fact, you don't normally approach girls, am I right? The truth is that you're a quite, sensitive type but if I'm prepared to take a chance I might just get to know the inner you: witty, adventurous, passionate, loving, loyal, a little bit crazy, a little bit bad, but, hey, don't us girls just love that?
RENTON: Well, what's wrong, boy? Cat got your tongue.
DIANE: Well, what's wrong, boy? Cat got your tongue.
RENTON: I think I left something back at the - The girl has disappeared into the back of the taxi. Renton looks around.
TAXI DRIVER: Are you getting in or not, pal?
GAIL: Do you understand? Spud nods drunkenly. Gail releases her grip. Our relationship is not being redefined; it is developing in an appropriate, organic fashion. I expect you to be a considerate and thoughtful lover, generous but firm. Failure on your part to live up to these very reasonable expectations will result in swift resumption of a non-sex situation. Right? Spud drinks from a bottle in the other hand and says nothing but he does not look too happy.
RENTON: Shut up. They walk through another door and close it behind them.
DIANE: Shut up. They walk through another door and close it behind them.
RENTON: Shut up. They walk through another door and close it behind them.
DIANE: Shut up. They walk through another door and close it behind them.
GAIL: Wake up, Spud, wake up. Sex. She kicks him. He moans. Casual sex. She kicks him again. He moans again. You useless bastards. So, let's see what I'm missing. She begins undressing him.
GAIL: Not much. She switches out the light.
LIZZY: Tommy, let's put the tape on.
TOMMY: Yes, I want to watch ourselves while we're screwing.
LIZZY: Yes, I want to watch ourselves while we're screwing.
TOMMY: Fuck, OK. Tommy gets up and reaches into the row of videos on the floor. He lifts out Tommy and LIzzy, Vol. 1 and hastily shoves it into the video. Tommy sits back on the bed with the remote control and presses 'play' as Lizzy kisses him. His face registers consternation. On the television, Archie Gemmill scores his famous goal against Holland in
RENTON: Christ, I haven't felt that good since Archie Gemmill scored against Holland in 1978.
DIANE: Right. You can't sleep here.
RENTON: Come on.
DIANE: Come on.
RENTON: Come on.
DIANE: No argument. You can sleep on the sofa in the living room, or go home. It's up to you.
RENTON: And don't make any noise.
DIANE: And don't make any noise.
LIZZY: What do you mean, it's 'gone'? Where has it gone, Tommy?
TOMMY: It'll be here somewhere. I might have returned it by mistake.
LIZZY: Returned it? Where? To the video shop, Tommy? To the fucking video store? So every punter in Edinburgh is jerking off to our video? God, Tommy, I feel sick.
MAN: Good Morning.
WOMAN: Come in and sit down. You must be Mark. Renton walks to the table and sits down.
RENTON: Yes, that's me.
WOMAN: You're a friend of Diane's?
RENTON: More of a friend of a friend, really.
MAN: Are you her flatmates? The couple exchange a look and laugh.
RENTON: Are you her flatmates? The couple exchange a look and laugh.
WOMAN: Flatmates. I must remember that one. The Man and Woman look beyond Renton. He too turns and follows their gaze. Diane stands in the doorway. She is wearing school uniform.
GAIL: Good morning, Spud.
SPUD: Morning, Gail. Morning, Mrs. Houston, Mr. Houston.
MOTHER: Morning, Spud. Sit down and have some breakfast.
SPUD: Sorry about last night -
GAIL: It's all right. I slept fine on the sofa.
SPUD: I had a little too much to drink. I'm afraid I had a slight Oh, don't worry, these things happen. It does everyone good to cut loose once in a while.
FATHER: Oh, don't worry, these things happen. It does everyone good to cut loose once in a while.
GAIL: This one could do with being tied up once in a while.
MOTHER: I'll put the sheets in the washing machine just now.
SPUD: No, I'll wash them. I'll take them home and bring them back.
MOTHER: There's no need.
SPUD: It's no problem.
MOTHER: No problem for me either.
MOTHER: Honestly, it's no problem.
SPUD: I'd really rather take care of it myself.
MOTHER: Spud, they're my sheets. She takes hold of the bundle. Spud does not yield. She pulls harder. Spud holds on. She tugs powerfully. The bundle bursts open with an explosion of vomit and excrement that covers everything in the kitchen. Only Spud remains untouched.
SPUD: INT. TOMMY'S FLAT. DAY Tommy sits alone, watching 100 Great Goals
DIANE: Because it's illegal.
RENTON: Because it's illegal.
DIANE: Holding hands?
RENTON: No, not holding hands.
DIANE: In that case you can do it. You were quite happy to do a lot more last night.
RENTON: And that's what's illegal. Do you know what they do to people like me inside? They'd cut my balls off and flush them down the fucking They stop at the school gates.
DIANE: Calm down. You're not going to jail.
RENTON: Easy for you to say.
DIANE: Can I see you again?
RENTON: Certainly not. Renton walks away.
DIANE: If you don't see me again I'll tell the police. Renton turns and walks back to her. They stand for a moment, then Renton walks away again. Diane smiles. I'll see you around then.
SICK BOY: This had better be good.
TOMMY: It will be. It'll make a change for three miserable junkies who don't know what they want to do with themselves since they stopped doing smack.
SICK BOY: If I'm giving up a whole day and the price of a ticket, I'm just saying it had better be good. There's plenty of other things I could be doing.
TOMMY: Such as?
SICK BOY: Such as sitting in a darkened room, watching videos, drinking, smoking dope and wanking. Does that answer your question? They sit in silence.
SICK BOY: Now what?
TOMMY: We go for a walk.
SPUD: A walk.
TOMMY: A walk.
SPUD: But where? Tommy points vaguely across the moor.
TOMMY: SICK BOY
SICK BOY: Are you serious? They step across the tracks toward the vast moorland. They stop. All but Tommy sit down on rocks or clumps of heather.
TOMMY: Well, what are you waiting for?
SPUD: I don't know, Tommy. I don't know if it's. normal. A group of three serious Walkers trudge past from the other end of the platform, decked out in regulation Berghaus from head to foot. They tramp off towards the wilderness. The boys watch them go. Spud opens a can.
TOMMY: It's the great outdoors.
SICK BOY: It's really nice, Tommy. Can we go home now?
TOMMY: It's fresh air.
SICK BOY: Look, Tommy, we know you're getting a hard time off Lizzy, but there's no need to take it out on us.
TOMMY: Doesn't it make you proud to be Scottish?
RENTON: I hate being Scottish. We're the lowest of the fucking low, the scum of the earth, the most wretched, servile, miserable, pathetic trash that was ever shat into civilization. Some people hate the English, but I don't. They're just wankers. We, on the other hand, are colonized by wankers. We can't even pick a decent culture to be colonized by. We are ruled by effete arseholes. It's a shite state of affairs and all the fresh air in the world will not make any fucking difference. The three serious Walkers are receding into the distance. The boys troop back towards the platform. At or around this time, we made a healthy, informed, democratic decision to back on drugs as soon as possible. It took about twelve hours.
RENTON: ( v.o )
SICK BOY: Ursula Andress was the quintessential Bond girl. That's what everyone says. The embodiment of his superiority to us: beautiful, exotic, highly sexual and yet unavailable to everyone but him. Shite. Let's face it: if she'd shag one punter from Edinburgh, she'd shag the fucking lot of us.
TOMMY: Lizzy's gone, Mark, she's gone and fucking dumped me. It was the video tape and that Iggy Pop business and all sorts of other stuff. She told me where to go and no mistake. I said, is there any chance of getting back together, like, but no way, no fucking INT. HOSPITAL WARD SITTING-ROOM. DAY A few elderly patients sit in armchairs watching daytime television. Renton and Spud jump and climb through an open window. Watched by the helpless patients, they calmly disconnect the television and take it with them as they leave by the same route.
TOMMY: I want to try it, Mark. You're always going on about how it's the ultimate hit and that. Better than sex. Come on, I'm a fucking adult. I want to find out for myself. Renton huddles up and leans away from Tommy. I've got the money. Tommy produces ten pounds from his pocket.
SICK BOY: Honor Blackman a.k.a. Pussy Galore, what a total fucking misnomer. I wouldn't touch her with yours. I'd sooner shag Col Kreb. At least you know where you are with a woman like that. Not much to look at, like, but personality, that's what counts, that's what keeps a relationship going through the years. Like heroin. I mean, heroin's got fucking great personality. Sick Boy opens the heel of a his shoe to reveal a syringe.
RENTON: ( v.o )
BEGBIE: And remember, Rents: no skag.
RENTON: Aye, OK, Fr.
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o )
SICK BOY: What's wrong, Allison? Allison points toward the bundle of dirty blankets in which her baby is wrapped. Sick Boy follows her directions.
SPUD: just fine.
RENTON: ( v.o )
SICK BOY: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o )
SICK BOY: Renton begins scrambling around through the works.
RENTON: Renton begins scrambling around through the works.
ALLISON: Cook one for me, Renton. I need a hit.
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o )
DIANE: Hello there, Mark. Diane is standing just beside him. What are you doing? Renton is speechless, but a few stolen items fall from inside his jacket down to the floor. Diane looks down. Spud and Sick Boy start to snigger. One of the Store Detectives become aware of the group. He starts walking towards them. You didn't tell me you were a thief.
SPUD: Hey, go easy, lady. The boy's got a habit to support.
SICK BOY: Opium doesn't just grow on trees, you know. A few more items fall from Renton's jacket as the store Detective closes in. Renton looks at Diane.
RENTON: ( v.o ) ( v.o ) ( v.o )
SHERIFF: .because shoplifting is theft, which is a crime, and, despite what you may believe, there is no such entity as victimless crime. Heroin addiction may explain your actions, but it does not excuse them. Mr Murphy, you are a habitual thief, devoid of regret or remorse. In sentencing you to six months' imprisonment my only worry is that it will not be long before we meet again. Mr Renton, I understand that you have entered into a programme of rehabilation in an attempt to wean yourself away from heroin. The suspension of your sentence is conditional upon your continued cooperation with this programme. Should you stand guilty before me again, I shall not hesitate to impose a custodial sentence.
RENTON: Thank you, your honour. With God's help, I'll conquer this The Sheriff and Renton stare at one another for a moment. Renton turns to look at Spud, then back towards the Sheriff, who is now leaving the court. What can you say? Well, Begbie had a phrase for it.
BEGBIE: It was fucking obvious that that cunt was going to fuck some cunt. There is a round to nodding and 'poor Spud'ing. Everyone begins to talk at I hope you've learned your lesson, son.
FATHER: I hope you've learned your lesson, son.
MOTHER: Oh, my son, I thought I was going to lose you there. You're nothing but trouble to me, but I still love you.
BEGBIE: Clean up your act, sunshine. Cut that shite out for ever.
MOTHER: You listen to Francis, Mark, he's talking sense.
BEGBIE: Fucking right I am. See, inside, you wouldn't last two fucking days.
SICK BOY: There's better things that the needle, Rents. Choose life. He winks.
MOTHER: I remember when you were a baby, even when you would never do what you were They laugh, then fall silent. Renton turns around. Behind him stands Spud's mother.
BEGBIE: But he pulled it off, clever bastard, and he got a result. They laugh, then fall silent. Renton turns around. Behind him stands Spud's mother.
RENTON: Mrs Murphy, I'm sorry about Spud. It's wasn't fair, him going down and not Tears in her eyes, Mrs Murphy turns and walks away. Renton watches her go. Behind him Begbie shouts.
BEGBIE: It's no our fault. Your boy went down because he was fucking smack-head and if that's not your fault, I don't know what is. Begbie turns back to Renton. Right. I'll get the drinks in. He moves towards the bar. Renton slips away. Renton walks through the bar towards the toilets, then out of a back door.
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: What's on the menu this evening?
SWANNEY: Your favourite dish.
RENTON: Your usual table, sir?
SWANNEY: Your usual table, sir?
RENTON: Why, thank you. Renton sits on his usual cushion on the floor.
SWANNEY: And would sir care to settle his bill in advance?
RENTON: Stick it on my tab.
SWANNEY: Regret to inform, sir, that your credit limit was reached and breached a long time ago.
RENTON: In that case He produces twenty pounds.
SWANNEY: Oh, hard currency, why, sir, that'll do nicely. He swipes the notes underneath a UV forgery checker. Can't be too careful when we're dealing with your type, can we? Renton begins his search for a vein. Would sir care for a starter? Some garlic bread perhaps?
RENTON: No, thank you. I'll proceed directly to the intravenous injection of hard drugs, please.
SWANNEY: As you wish. He hands Renton the syringe. Renton inject, then lies back on the dirty, red, carpeted floor. He lies completely still. His pupils shrink. His breathing becomes slow, shallow and intermittent. He sinks into the floor until he is lying in a coffin-shaped and coffin-sized pit, lined by the red carpet. Swanney stands over him.
SWANNEY: Perhaps sir would like me to call for a taxi? An ambulance siren becomes faintly audible.
DOCTOR: Wake up. Wake up. Renton breathes more easily.
RENTON: ( v.o )
MOTHER: We'll help you, son. You'll stay with us until you get better. We'll beat this together.
RENTON: Maybe I could go back to the clinic.
MOTHER: No. No clinics, no methadone. That made you worse, you said so yourself. You lied to us, son, your own mother and father.
RENTON: At least get us some Tempazepam.
MOTHER: No, you're worse coming off that than you are with heroin. Nothing at all.
FATHER: It's a clean break this time.
MOTHER: You're staying where we can keep an eye on you.
RENTON: I do appreciate what you're trying to do, I really do, but I need just one score, to ease myself off it. Just one. Just one. Mother retreats past Father, who closes the door. The bolts go home again. Renton lies back and closes his eyes. His forehead is damp with sweat. He begins to shake. He tosses and turns, becoming wrapped up in a swathe of blankets. As he unravels them, he is astonished to find a fully clothed Begbie in the bed with him.
BEGBIE: Well, this is a good laugh, you fucking useless bastard. Go on, sweat that shite out of your system, because if I come back and it's still there, I'll fucking kick it out. Begbie laughs and covers himself up. Renton rips away the blankets, but Begbie has gone. Renton looks up. Baby Dawn is crawling across the ceiling. Renton looks down to see Diane sitting on the end of the bed. Diane sings 'Temptation' by New Order.
DIANE: 'Oh, you've got green eyes, oh, you've got red eyes, and I've never met anyone quite like you before.' Renton looks back up. Dawn continues her slow crawl, leaving behind a thick rail of unidentifiable slime. Renton looks down. Sick Boy sits on the end of the bed, holding a cup of tea and a chocolate biscuit. Mother stands behind It's a mug's game, Mrs Renton. I'm not saying I was blameless myself, far from it, but there comes a time when you have to turn your back on that nonsense and just say no. Sick Boy takes a bit of his biscuit. Dawn crawls on. She has fangs now. Spud sits on the end of the bed, in a caricature prison uniform with arrows on it, plus a ball and chain. Dawn has claws as well. Tommy sits on the end of the bed. He looks terrible.
SICK BOY: It's a mug's game, Mrs Renton. I'm not saying I was blameless myself, far from it, but there comes a time when you have to turn your back on that nonsense and just say no. Sick Boy takes a bit of his biscuit. Dawn crawls on. She has fangs now. Spud sits on the end of the bed, in a caricature prison uniform with arrows on it, plus a ball and chain. Dawn has claws as well. Tommy sits on the end of the bed. He looks terrible.
TOMMY: Better than sex, Rents, better than sex. The ultimate hit. I'm a fucking adult. I'll find out for myself. Well, I've found out all Renton looks up again just as the baby drops on to his face. He tears her off and throws her into a corner. Renton's Mother and Father are washing him. Mother bends down and picks up the large, damp sponge from the corner, where it landed. She wipes her son's face with it.
FATHER: Mark, there's something you need to do.
DOCTOR: Come in. Sit down, please. They both sit down. Well, you've already spoken to one of our counsellors, but before we go on there're just a few questions I'd like to ask you.
DOCTOR: Question number one: the human immunodeficiency virus is a - what?
FATHER: Retrovirus is the correct answer. Question number two: HIV binds to which receptor on the host lymphocyte? Which Receptor? Mother and Father confer.
DOCTOR: Retrovirus is the correct answer. Question number two: HIV binds to which receptor on the host lymphocyte? Which Receptor? Mother and Father confer.
FATHER: CD4 receptor is the correct answer. And now, question number three: is he guilty or not guilty?
DOCTOR: CD4 receptor is the correct answer. And now, question number three: is he guilty or not guilty?
MOTHER: He's our son.
DOCTOR: Is the correct answer. And now it's time to 'Take the Test'. Lights flash. Music. A garish Hostess walks on with two envelopes. She holds them out for Mother to choose one.
MOTHER: They bustle around him and pass his card to the front.
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: Are you getting out much?
TOMMY: Following the game at all?
RENTON: Following the game at all?
TOMMY: No. Me Neither. Renton drops the ball. It rolls to a halt in the corner. He sits down.
RENTON: No. Me Neither. Renton drops the ball. It rolls to a halt in the corner. He sits down.
TOMMY: You take the test?
RENTON: That's nice.
TOMMY: That's nice.
RENTON: That's nice.
TOMMY: That's nice.
RENTON: I'm sorry, Tommy.
TOMMY: Have you got any gear on you?
RENTON: No, I'm clean.
TOMMY: Well, sub us, then, mate. I'm expecting a rent cheque. Renton produces some of his bingo win. As he hands the notes over, their eyes and hands meet for a moment. Tommy puts the money away.
TOMMY: ( continued )
RENTON: No problem. No problem easy to say when its some other poor cunt with shite for blood.
SWANNEY: Surprise! Pa-pah! Renton sits down and takes it in silence. Hit the artery by mistake. Common enough error, or so the quack tells us, as though that's going to make my leg grown back. Still, it could have been worse, it could have been my fucking dick. And I tell you what, in this place you get looked after: clean sheets, regular meals and all the morphine you can eat.
RENTON: And see when I get out of here. I've got plans. Going to get myself straightened out and head off to Thailand, where women really know how to treat a guy. See, out there you can live like a king if you've got white skin and a few crisp tenners in your pocket. No fucking problem.
SWANNEY: And see when I get out of here. I've got plans. Going to get myself straightened out and head off to Thailand, where women really know how to treat a guy. See, out there you can live like a king if you've got white skin and a few crisp tenners in your pocket. No fucking problem.
RENTON: The strategy is this: get clean, get mobile, get into dealing, and this time next year I'll be watching the rising sun with a posse of oriental buttocks parked on my coupon.
SWANNEY: The strategy is this: get clean, get mobile, get into dealing, and this time next year I'll be watching the rising sun with a posse of oriental buttocks parked on my coupon.
RENTON: Sounds great, Swanney.
SWANNEY: You'll have to send us a postcard.
RENTON: You'll have to send us a postcard.
SWANNEY: EXT. PARK. DAY Renton and Sick Boy are seated in their firing patch, sitting on plastic bags with beer, vodka, hash and the cassette player. The airgun is present as before, but they are not making any use of it.
SICK BOY: SICK BOY SICK BOY SICK BOY SICK BOY
RENTON: SICK BOY SICK BOY SICK BOY SICK BOY
SICK BOY: SICK BOY SICK BOY SICK BOY
RENTON: SICK BOY SICK BOY SICK BOY
SICK BOY: SICK BOY SICK BOY
RENTON: SICK BOY SICK BOY
SICK BOY: SICK BOY
RENTON: SICK BOY
SICK BOY: And I got a stitch stuck between my teeth, jerked my head back and the whole fucking stump fell off.
RENTON: And I got a stitch stuck between my teeth, jerked my head back and the whole fucking stump fell off.
SICK BOY: Cut it out.
RENTON: When are you going to visit him?
SICK BOY: Don't know. Maybe Thursday.
RENTON: You're a real mate. And what about Tommy? Have you been to see him Sick Boy is silent. He stiffens as he avoids Renton's gaze. They shift fractionally apart. RENTON tuts.
SICK BOY: Fuck you. OK, so Tommy's got the virus. Bad news, big deal. The gig goes on, or hadn't you noticed? Swanney fucks his leg up. Well, tough shit, but it could have been worse.
RENTON: You're all hear.
SICK BOY: I know a couple of addicts. Stupid wee lassies. I feed them what they need. A little bit of skag to keep them happy while the punters line up at a fiver a skull. It's easy money for me. Not exactly a fortune, but I'm thinking, 'I should be coining it here.' Less whores, more skag. Swanney's right. Get clean, get into dealing, that's where the future lies. Set up some contacts, get a good load of skag, punt it, profit. What do you think?
RENTON: Fuck you.
SICK BOY: And I'll tell you why. Because I'm fed up to my back teeth with losers, no-hopers, draftpacks, schemies, junkies and the like. I'm getting on with life. What are you doing?
RENTON: What do you want?
DIANE: Are you clean?
RENTON: Is that a promise, then?
DIANE: Is that a promise, then?
RENTON: Yes, as a matter of fact, it is.
DIANE: Calm down, I'm just asking. Is that hash I can smell?
RENTON: I wouldn't mind a bit, if it is.
DIANE: I wouldn't mind a bit, if it is.
RENTON: Well, it isn't.
DIANE: Smells like it.
RENTON: You're too young.
DIANE: Too young for what? Renton looks in each direction along the empty passageway.
DIANE: You're not getting any younger, Mark. The world is changing, music is changing, even drugs are changing. You can't stay in here all day dreaming about heroin and Ziggy Pop.
RENTON: It's Iggy Pop.
DIANE: Whatever. I mean, the guy's dead anyway.
RENTON: Iggy Pop is not dead. He toured last year. Tommy went to see him.
DIANE: The point is, you've got to find something new. Diane completes the joint.
RENTON: ( v.o )
MAN: Can you take this call? Renton takes the telephone and reaches for a piece of paper from which he Hello, yes, certainly. It's a beautifully converted Victorian town house. Ideally located in a quiet road near to local shops and Renton checks his watch.
RENTON: Hello, yes, certainly. It's a beautifully converted Victorian town house. Ideally located in a quiet road near to local shops and Renton checks his watch.
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o )
DIANE: ( v.o )
DIANE: ( v.o )
RENTON: Oh no.
BEGBIE: Armed robbery? With a replica? How can it be armed robbery? It's a fucking scandal. He 'fires' the gun a few more times at his own head, then chucks it to the And the haul. Look. He digs a few rings out of his pocket and throws them to Renton. Solid silver, my arse. I took it to a fence it's trash, pure trash. There's young couples investing all their hopes in that stuff, and what are they getting?
RENTON: It's a scandal, Franco.
BEGBIE: Too right it is. Now look, have you got anything to eat, 'cos I'm fucking Lee Marvin, by the way.
RENTON: ( v.o )
BEGBIE: ( from the bedsit )
RENTON: I've no fucking cigarettes. Begbie throws the packet down to the floor. It lands near the door. He has turned back to the television and takes a swig of beer.
BEGBIE: I've no fucking cigarettes. Begbie throws the packet down to the floor. It lands near the door. He has turned back to the television and takes a swig of beer.
RENTON: Renton closes the door again.
RENTON: ( v.o )
BEGBIE: Hey, I'm wanting a bet put on.
RENTON: Can you not go yourself.
BEGBIE: I'm a fugitive from the law. I can't be seen on the fucking streets. Now watch my lips. Kempton Park. Two-thirty. Five pounds to win. Bad Boy.
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o )
BEGBIE: I'm no a fucking buftie and that's the end of it.
RENTON: Let's face it, it could have been wonderful. Begbie leaps off the bed, grabs Renton and head-butts him, then holds him by the lapel.
BEGBIE: Now, listen to me, you little piece of junky shit. A joke's a fucking joke, but you mention that again and I'll cut you up. Begbie produces his knife. There is a knock on the door. They do not move. There is another knock.
RENTON: ( v.o )
MAN: Beautifully converted Victorian town house. Ideally located in a quiet road near to local shops and transport. Two bedrooms and a kitchen/diner. Fully fitted in excellent decorative order. Lots of storage space. All mod cons. Three hundred and twenty pounds a INT. BEDSIT. NIGHT Renton ( still dressed for work ), Begbie and Sick Boy sit in a line on the bed with fish suppers laid out on their laps, but Renton's is untouched.
SICK BOY: Good chips.
RENTON: I can't believe you did that.
SICK BOY: I got a good price for it. Rents, I need the money.
RENTON: It was my fucking television.
SICK BOY: Well, Christ, if I'd known you were going to get so humpty about it, I wouldn't have bothered. Are you going to eat that? He takes Renton's fish supper and adds it to his own. Have you got a passport?
RENTON: SICK BOY
SICK BOY: Well, this guy I've met runs a hotel. Brother. Loads of contacts. Does a nice little sideline in punting British passports to foreigners. Get you a good price.
RENTON: Why would I want to sell my passport?
SICK BOY: It was just an idea.
RENTON: ( v.o )
MAN: As you can see, it's a beautiful conversion. Two bedrooms, kitchen/diner. Fully fitted. Lots of storage. All mod cons. Three hundred and twenty quid a week. From nowhere, Begbie and Sick Boy spring out at him.
RENTON: ( v.o )
GAV: ( v.o ) ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o )
GAV: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o )
GAV: He wanted to see Lizzy again. He indicated Lizzy. Lizzy wouldn't let him near the house. So he brought a present for her, brought her a kitten.
RENTON: I bet Lizzy told him where to put it.
GAV: Exactly. I'm not wanting a cat, she says. Get to fuck, right. So there's Tommy stuck with this kitten. You can imagine what happened. The thing was neglected, pissing and shitting all over the place. Tommy was lying around fucked out of his eyeballs on smack or downers. He didn't know you could get toxoplasmosis from cat shit.
RENTON: I didn't either. What the fuck is it?
GAV: ( v.o )
GAV: The kitten was fine.
SPUD: Every time I think of Tommy I think of Australian, because every time I went round he was just lying there, junked out of his mind, watching Aussie soaps. Until he sold the telly, of course, then he was just lying there. Buy every time I think of him, I still think of Australia.
RENTON: They all drink.
SICK BOY: Did you tell him?
BEGBIE: No. On you go.
RENTON: SICK BOY
SICK BOY: There's a mate of swanney's. Mikey Forrester you know the guy. He's come into some gear. A lot of gear.
RENTON: How much?
SICK BOY: About four kilos. So he tells me. Got drunk in a pub down by the docks last week, where he met two Russian sailors. They're fucking carrying the stuff. For sale there and then, like. So he wakes up the next morning, realizes what he's done and get very fucking nervous. Wants rid of this. { He's looking for Swanney to punt it, but Swanney's nowhere to be seen since he lost his leg. }
RENTON: SICK BOY
SICK BOY: So he met me and I offered to take it off his hands at a very reasonable price, with the intention of punting it on myself to a guy I know in London.
RENTON: So we've just come from Tommy's funeral and you're telling me about a skag deal?
BEGBIE: There is silence.
RENTON: What was your price?
SICK BOY: Four Grand.
RENTON: But you don't have the money?
SICK BOY: We're two thousand short.
RENTON: That's tough.
SICK BOY: Come on, Mark, every cunt knows you've been saving up down in Sorry, boys, I don't have two thousand pounds.
RENTON: Sorry, boys, I don't have two thousand pounds.
BEGBIE: Yes, you fucking do. I've seen your statement.
RENTON: Two thousand, one hundred and thirty-three pounds.
BEGBIE: Two thousand, one hundred and thirty-three pounds.
RENTON: Four kilos. That's what Ten years' worth? Russian sailors? Mikey Forrester? What the fuck are you on these days? You've been to jail, Spud, so what's the deal like it so much you want to go back again?
SPUD: I want the money, Mark, that's all.
BEGBIE: If everyone keeps their mouth shut, there'll be no one going to EXT. STREET. DAY Renton is visible first, apparently talking to himself, then Diane.
RENTON: It's so simple. We buy it at four grand, we punt it at twenty to this guy that Sick Boy knows, and he punts it at sixty. Everyone's happy, everyone's in profit. I put up two. I come away with six.
DIANE: Unless you get caught.
RENTON: So long as everyone keeps their mouths shut, we'll not be getting So why have you told me about it?
DIANE: So why have you told me about it?
RENTON: Well, you're not going to tell anyone, are you, and besides, I thought we could meet up afterwards, maybe go somewhere together.
DIANE: I've got a boyfriend, Mark.
RENTON: What? Steady like?
DIANE: That's right: 'going steady' for four weeks now.
RENTON: And what age are you? Thirteen? Fourteen?
DIANE: Sixteen next month.
RENTON: Happy birthday.
DIANE: What do you think I should be carrying a torch for you? Renton thinks it over.
RENTON: So, what's he like?
DIANE: Well, he's young and he's healthy. They both laugh. And you're such a deadbeat, Mark.
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: EXT. BUS STATION. NIGHT Renton walks past a Beggar huddling against a wall. The Beggar's sign reads: 'FALKLANDS VETERAN. I LOST MY LEG FOR MY COUNTRY. PLEASE HELP.' The beggar is Swanney.
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o )
BEGBIE: Did you bring the cards?
SICK BOY: The cards. The last thing I said to you was mind the cards.
BEGBIE: The cards. The last thing I said to you was mind the cards.
SICK BOY: Well, I've not brought them.
BEGBIE: It's fucking boring after a while without the cards.
SICK BOY: Well, I've not brought them.
BEGBIE: It's fucking boring after a while without the cards.
SICK BOY: I'm sorry.
BEGBIE: Bit fucking late, like.
SICK BOY: Well, why didn't you bring them?
BEGBIE: Because I fucking told you to do that, you doss cunt.
SICK BOY: EXT. LONDON. DAY The bus travels through London.
ANDREAS: These are your friends?
SICK BOY: These are the guys I told you about.
ANDREAS: SICK BOY
SICK BOY: Is he here?
ANDREAS: Yes, he's here. I hope you didn't get followed or nothing.
BEGBIE: We didn't get followed. Andreas leads them along a corridor and into a room.
RENTON: ( v.o )
MAN: So what do you want for it?
BEGBIE: Twenty thousand.
MAN: But it's not worth more than fifteen.
BEGBIE: The man shakes his head and lights a cigarette.
MAN: Nineteen I can't offer you, I'm sorry.
RENTON: ( v.o ) ( v.o )
SICK BOY: So what are you planning with your share, Spud?
RENTON: Buy yourself that island in the sun?
BEGBIE: For four fucking grand? One plam tree, a couple of rocks, and a sewage outflow.
SPUD: I don't know, maybe I'll buy something for my ma, and then buy some good speed, no bicarb like, then get a girl, take her out like, and treat her properly.
BEGBIE: Shag her senseless.
SPUD: No, I don't mean like that I mean something nice, like, that's You daft cunt. If you're going to waste it like that, you might as well leave it all to me. Now get the drinks in.
BEGBIE: You daft cunt. If you're going to waste it like that, you might as well leave it all to me. Now get the drinks in.
SICK BOY: I got a round already.
SPUD: I got the last one.
RENTON: It's your round Franco. Begbie stands up.
BEGBIE: OK. Same again?
SICK BOY: I'm off for a pish. When I come back, that money's still here, OK?
RENTON: The moment you turn your back, we're out that door. Sick Boy walks away towards the toilet.
SICK BOY: I'll be right after you.
BEGBIE: You'll never catch us, you flabby bastard. Right, see, when I come We'll be half-way down the road with the money.
RENTON: We'll be half-way down the road with the money.
BEGBIE: I'd fucking kill you.
RENTON: I guess you would, Franco. Begbie walks away to the bar. Spud and Renton look at each other and the bag of money. Are you game for it? Spud looks at the bag and around the pub towards the toilet door and Begbie. Begbie stands at the bar, awaiting the pints. Are you serious? Renton looks around.
SPUD: Are you serious? Renton looks around.
RENTON: I don't know. What do you think? Spud says nothing. Suddenly they are interrupted.
SICK BOY: Still here, I see. Sick Boy sits down.
RENTON: Why not? I know I would. Where's Franco? Renton turns to see Begbie making his way through the crowd with the pints helf precariously. As he reaches the table a Man standing with a group of friends accidentally nudges Begbie, causing a pint to spill over him.
BEGBIE: For fuck's sake.
MAN: Sorry, mate, I'll get you another.
BEGBIE: All down my fucking front, you fucking idiot.
MAN: Look, I'm sorry, I didn't mean it.
BEGBIE: Sorry's no going to dry me off, you cunt.
RENTON: Cool down, Franco. The guy's sorry.
BEGBIE: Not sorry enough for being a fat cunt.
MAN: Fuck you. If you can't hold a pint, you shouldn't be in the pub, mate. Now fuck off. Begie drops the remaining three pints. As the Man looks down to the falling glasses, Begbie punches him in the face and knees him in the groin. A fight breaks out between the Man and Begbie. Sick Boy rushes forward to restrain Begbie. Renton sits still, not even looking at the fight or what follows. His eyes are fixed on the bag while his hands fiddle. Begbie stabs Spud in the hand.
SPUD: Jesus Christ.
SICK BOY: Good one, Franco.
BEGBIE: Shut you mouth or you'll be next.
SPUD: You've stabbed me, man.
BEGBIE: You were in my way. Begbie, blade still in hand, addresses the entire pub. And anyone in my way gets it, fucking gets it. Everybody hear that? Everybody happy? Nobody says anything. Renton is seated as before, avoiding Begbie's gaze. Begbie addresses him. Hey, Rent-boy, bring us down a smoke. Renton does not move.
SICK BOY: We'd better go, Franco.
SPUD: I've got to get to the hospital, man.
BEGBIE: You're not going to and fucking hospital. ( to Sick Boy ) You're staying there. ( to Renton ) And you bring me a fucking cigarette. Renton swivels and stands up. And the bag. Renton lifts the bag and slowly approaches Begbie. Renton, nervous, hand shaking, pulls a packet of cigarettes from a pocket and holds it towards Begbie. Begbie does not move. Renton holds out the bag. Begbie takes it. Now Renton selects a cigarette and hands it over to Begbie. Begbie inhales deeply and then blows the smoke towards Renton
RENTON: ( v.o )
RENTON: ( v.o )
THE END: Writers : Irvine Welsh John Hodge
