BENEATH PERFECTION: Written by S. S. Wilson & Brent Maddock
OLD FRED: How's she doing?
EDGAR: She wants to lay down. I'm a little worried.
OLD FRED: Well, I brung her something I know she likes.
EDGAR: Damn, Fred, you can't give away all Forget it. I got vegetables coming out my ears. Usually the varmints eat up half my crop, but lately I ain't so much as seen a gopher or a jack-rabbit nowheres.
OLD FRED: Forget it. I got vegetables coming out my ears. Usually the varmints eat up half my crop, but lately I ain't so much as seen a gopher or a jack-rabbit nowheres.
EDGAR: If that ain't the truth. And I count on them for a little bit of stew meat.Thank you, Fred. Here you go, Justine. Look what Fred brought you.
OLD FRED: We playing cards tonight?
EDGAR: I think I'm gonna be sitting up with her.
OLD FRED: I'd do the same. Well, catch you You bet. Let's get you out of the sun for a I'll get you some fresh water. .some kind of earthquake!? Justine, hang on! I'm coming!
EDGAR: You bet. Let's get you out of the sun for a I'll get you some fresh water. .some kind of earthquake!? Justine, hang on! I'm coming!
EDGAR: What in the name of Jehovah.?
VAL: ( softly ) Good morning, Mr. Bassett, this is your wake-up call. Please move your fat ass.
WAY!: The sleeping bag tries to get up and run for it. It tumbles out of the back of the pickup. While Val laughs uproar- iously, EARL BASSET ( 43 ) claws his way out of the bag, looks around wildly, and finds himself staring at three motionless Earl is a good-ol' boy who has lived his life just like Val, drifting from job to job. He knows why he hasn't accom- plished anything, and often tries to impart his hard-won wisdom to Val, but the last thing the younger man wants is Earl stretches. The men begin a silent ritual: Earl gropes through his pockets for a cigarette, but only finds a lighter. Meanwhile, Val digs in his pockets, coming up with cigarettes, but no lighter. Typical of these two, each guy always has half of what he needs. Eventually they sort it out, trading the necessary implements. Earl reaches for a coffee-pot on a battered Coleman stove on the tailgate. But it's cold.
EARL: You dumb shit.
EARL: You didn't cook breakfast?
VAL: Did it yesterday. Franks and No.it was eggs. I did eggs.
EARL: ( tries to recall ) No.it was eggs. I did eggs.
VAL: Hell you did. Your turn. Well, when I'm your age I'll probably forget what I eat, too.
VAL: How many cows does it take to make a stampede? Is it like three or more? Is there a minimum speed?
EARL: ( shakes his head ) I was in one. A bolt of lightning blew up cottonwood tree. Three hundred head going hell-bent for the horizon. Wasn't so damn funny, I can tell you. Ow! God damn! Is this a job for intelligent men?!
VAL: If there was one nearby I'd probably ask him.
EARL: I keep thinking, if we were but half serious about money, we should quit being hired hands and.
VAL: ( mock serious ) Handymen, Earl. We're handymen.
EARL: Whatever the hell we are, we should quit and go get ourselves some real
VAL: What, and give up all this personal
VAL: Goddamn jeep trail gets worse every Has a lot of rain.
EARL: ( shrugs ) Has a lot of rain.
EARL: ( pointing ahead ) You're gonna get us hung up.
VAL: Do not talk to the driver.
EARL: Uh.Digging that waterhole for Burt and Heather's place is closer. Let's do their kitchen today. Do Nestor tomorrow.
VAL: Burt and Heather's place is closer. Let's do their kitchen today. Do Nestor tomorrow.
EARL: Nestor's out of town tomorrow. We don't dig today. We don't get paid today. Damn it, Valentine, you never plan ahead. You never take the long view. Hell, here it is Monday and I'm already working on It is Monday, right?
VAL: Who the hell's that? That's not what's his name.the grad student?
EARL: Nah, it's September. Must be the new one.
VAL: The new one! That's supposed to be a girl! You will have long blonde hair, big green eyes, nice full breasts that stand up and say hello, ass that won't quit. And legs, legs that go all the way up!
RHONDA: ( brightly ) Hi, I'm Rhonda. Rhonda LeBeck. I'm up here for the semester.
VAL: Yeah, geography.
RHONDA: Right, geology. And you have to be Val and Earl. I've heard all about We deny everything.
EARL: We deny everything.
RHONDA: Listen, got a question for you. Do you know if anybody is doing any blasting or drilling or anything like that?
VAL: Around here? Why would they?
RHONDA: Well, I'm supposed monitor these seismographs. You know, they measure vibrations.
VAL: Yeah, vibrations in the ground.
RHONDA: Yeah, well, I'm getting what I refer to scientifically as "weird vibes." every sensor I've got is giving me strange readings. I mean, the school has had these machines up here three years and they've never recorded anything like this.
EARL: Well, we'll ask around. Let you know if we hear of anything.
RHONDA: Thanks. God, I hope they're not screwed up. I might have to bag the whole semester. Anyway, sorry to bother you.
EARL: No problem. Nice meeting you. Hope you get it sorted out.
EARL: You know, if you wanted, we could take a look at those seismographs for her.
VAL: What the hell do we know about Nothing. But it sure might be a nice way of getting to know her.
EARL: Nothing. But it sure might be a nice way of getting to know her.
VAL: Goddamnit, Valentine, you won't go for any gal unless she fits that damn list of yours A to Z.
EARL: Goddamnit, Valentine, you won't go for any gal unless she fits that damn list of yours A to Z.
VAL: Well, sure.
EARL: .And is dumber than my hind end. Like that Bobby Lynn Dexter.
VAL: ( defensively ) Tammy Lynn Baxter.
EARL: Don't matter. They're all the same: dead weight. Can't make a decision, can't walk because of their shoes, can't work because of their fingernails. Make my skin Well, I'm a victim of circumstance.
VAL: Well, I'm a victim of circumstance.
EARL: I thought you called it your pecker. Look, don't make the mistake I made. Twenty years of looking for a woman exactly like Miss October 1968, and where'd it get me? Here with you.
EARL: Melvin, touch that truck and die.
MELVIN: Oh, man, I'm really shaking.
BURT: No, Pham, they're not hollow points. I ordered hollow points and that's what I want.
HEATHER: Hi, guys, what you been up to?
VAL: Ran into the new college student, Rhonda. Rhonda LeBeck. She's getting some kind of strange readings on her things.
EARL: Rhonda. Rhonda LeBeck. She's getting some kind of strange readings on her things.
BURT: Damn, you know, those kids turn up oil or uranium or something out there.next thing the Feds will be at our door. "Sorry, time to move. Eminent domain."
HEATHER: Down, honey, down.
VAL: Yeah, Burt. The way you worry, you're gonna have a heart attack before you get to survive World War
PHAM VAN: Hey Val, listen. Bearing going out, you think?
VAL: Could be.
EARL: Catch it later, Pham. Gotta get over to Nestor's.
VAL: Right. We plan ahead. That way we don't do anything right now. Earl explained it to me. Hey, Pham Van, what the hell is A beauty, isn't it? We bought three of them for the rec room.
BURT: A beauty, isn't it? We bought three of them for the rec room.
VAL: ( whispers to Pham Van ) We sell 'em to you for three bucks a piece!
PHAM VAN: ( deadpan ) And I appreciate it.
VAL: ( playfully ) You don't get it, Pham. The idea was: we were ripping you off.
BURT: Melvin, you little pain-in-the-ass!
MELVIN: It wasn't me, man! Your truck's just screwed up, that's all.
VAL: Why don't his parents ever take him to Vegas with them?
EARL: You gotta ask
NESTOR: It came out great, boys. Should fill up just fine come the next rain. Lemme have your bill. I'll have to send it to you the first of the month, boys. Now, you know I'm good for it.
VAL: Yeah, Nestor, we know. Don't worry about it. Catch us when you can. Are we too easy-going?
EARL: No, we're not too easy-going. This area is economically depressed.
VAL: So what if we just did it.today. Pack up. Drive straight down to Bixby. Get serious.
EARL: We could. We could. But we'd have to get really serious. It's gonna cost twice as much to rent a place.
VAL: So? That car wash pays good, and they're always looking.
EARL: Car wash?! That's got no future. If we're gonna take the plunge we oughta have a better plan than Yeah, sure. Go ahead and plan it.for a year or two.
VAL: Yeah, sure. Go ahead and plan it.for a year or two.
VIOLA: Stop it! Stop it, you horrid I'm going to give her back to my son. I swear it.
VAL: Hey, Viola, you've got my God almighty, my mama sure didn't raise me for this.
EARL: God almighty, my mama sure didn't raise me for this.
VAL: the car wash. You're the one's gotta have a plan.
EARL: Damn it, Val! Not having a plan is what keeps us doing jobs like this!
VAL: What keeps us doing jobs like this is you dragging your feet. I was up for going to Bixby. I was getting excited.
EARL: In the past year I must've said a hundred times "We gotta get out of Perfection. We gotta better ourselves." You gonna stand there in broad daylight and tell me you think I'm the reason we're still here? You want to know how close I am to going to Bixby right now?
VAL: I'll call that little bluff. How
EARL: Uh oh, it's Nancy. She wants another load of firewood.
VAL: Forget it, man. It's not worth it.
EARL: She's got us. Now, listen, the plan is: we have done our last job in Perfection.
VAL: That's the plan.
NANCY: Mindy, honey, don't pogo in the street. Hey, guys, I've got a job for you.
EARL: Sorry, Nancy. We ain't doing odd jobs anymore. We're headed for Bixby permanent.
NANCY: ( skeptical ) Oh, sure. ( sees stuff in back of .My God, you really are!
VAL: Yep, we're relocating to an area with a greater economic base. Hey, Mindy, what's the count?
MINDY: Six hundred three, six hundred four, six hundred five.
VAL: Go for it!
NANCY: Gee, guys. I made the big decision. I'm putting in that satellite dish. I was going to offer you five hundred dollars.
EARL: We did it! We faced temptation and we did not bend!
VAL: Damn straight! Now there's nothing between us and Bixby but nothing! Last time we'll see that sign!
EARL: Last time we hit that goddamn
VAL: Last time down this damn twisty
EARL: Last chance, asshole. Run, run.!
EARL: Okay, here's the plan. We bust our tails in the car wash six months. well, maybe nine.and we don't spend a dime, you know? And then we go for it.down payment on a tow-truck or a back-hoe or something, right? Start a real business. We can start looking for something today, tonight!
VAL: Jeez, look at that guy.
EARL: ( shakes his head ) One job I'd never take is working around electricity.
VAL: Especially when it's two hundred feet off the ground. Hey, hold up.That's Edgar Deems!
EARL: You're full of shit.
VAL: He's only got one damn jacket. That's him, I'm telling you.
EARL: ( impressed ) Man, oh, man. He must've really been drunk this time. ( shouts ) Edgar! What the hell you doing? Get on down from there!
VAL: Well, shit, we can't leave him up Hey, Edgar, don't you move. I'm coming to get you.You damn fool, you owe me on this one. What the hell.
VAL: Real sorry to bother you, Megan, but we figured since Jim's a doctor.
MEGAN: No, it's fine. You did the right thing. When Jim is done we'll call the Coroner's office in Bixby. We'll take care of it. Poor Edgar.
EARL: ( tries to break the mood ) Well, I see you got all the wallboard up.
MEGAN: That was easy. You two did the hard part. Sure sorry you're
EARL: Was is a heart attack?
JIM: ( shaking his head ) He died of dehydration. Thirst.
VAL: But that doesn't make sense. That takes a couple of days, doesn't it?
JIM: Three or four even.
EARL: You mean he sat up there three or four days? Just sat there till he died of thirst?
EARL: Reckon he hated Perfection more than us? You suppose he wanted to kill himself?
VAL: If he did, why didn't he use his damn shotgun?
EARL: Maybe he just couldn't pull the Oh sure, he figured it was easier to die of thirst? Come on, sombody must've chased him up Oh, you mean somebody who ain't scared of a twelve gauge shotgun. And then what did they do? Camp out down below and just wait for him to die?
VAL: Oh sure, he figured it was easier to die of thirst? Come on, sombody must've chased him up Oh, you mean somebody who ain't scared of a twelve gauge shotgun. And then what did they do? Camp out down below and just wait for him to die?
EARL: Oh, you mean somebody who ain't scared of a twelve gauge shotgun. And then what did they do? Camp out down below and just wait for him to die?
VAL: Well, whatever the hell happened it's just one more goddamn good reason to haul ass out of this You got that right. Hey, where the hell's that asshole Probably up a pole starving itself to death.
EARL: You got that right. Hey, where the hell's that asshole Probably up a pole starving itself to death.
VAL: ( looking around ) Probably up a pole starving itself to death.
EARL: Okay, the plan is: pedal to the metal the whole way. We don't stop till we hit the carwash, not even to pee.
VAL: I'll go with that plan.
VAL: What are you doing?
VAL: ( whispers ) What the hell.?
VAL: Hey, Old Fred! Fred! Where are
EARL: Not here.
EARL: Oh, Jesus!!
VAL: What the hell is going on? I mean WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON?!!
EARL: You guys better get the hell outta here! We got a killer on the loose!
HOWARD: Carmine stops jackhammering to listen.
EARL: He's cutting people's heads off! I'm serious! I'd high-tail for town if I was you!
CARMINE: They're drunk.
HOWARD: But he edges over to the truck and takes out a heavy steel pry-bar to keep within easy reach. Carmine goes back to work, pounding the asphalt with the jackhammer. Suddenly the blade strikes something beneath the road, something soft. We hear a strange, unearthly shriek from underground. A weird orange goo gushes up around the blade. Then the jackhammer takes off by itself like a harpoon stuck in a whale! Carmine gets tangled in the jack- hammer's air-hose and is dragged along, shouting for help. Howard chases him down the embankment and into the scrub- brush. He hears Carmine screaming.
HOWARD: Carmine! What the hell is it?! Where are you?
NESTOR: His head? You mean
VAL: Yeah, really sick, man. Sweet Old
PHAM VAN: Something happen to Fred?
MELVIN: ( ignoring Pham ) Are you serious, man? They killed him just to take his sheep?
EARL: He didn't have nothing else to steal. Neither did Edgar.
MIGUEL: What happened to Edgar?
VAL: I don't believe this. The phone is out! Pham, your phone is out!
PHAM VAN: I didn't do it! What's going on?
NESTOR: We've gotta get the police up here. You guys gotta step on it to Bixby.
VAL: Consider it stepped on.
VAL: Brother, we decided to leave this place just one day too late, you Well, there's sure as hell nothing to stop us now. Everybody we know between here and Bixby is already
EARL: ( grimly ) Well, there's sure as hell nothing to stop us now. Everybody we know between here and Bixby is already
EARL: LOOK OUT!!
LOOK OUT!!: Val brings the truck to a squealing stop. Ahead: the collapsed embankment completely blocks the road. It's totally impassable. The cowboys are dumbfounded.
EARL: Is some higher force at work, here? Are we asking too much of life?
VAL: Those assholes are supposed to be fixing the goddamn road! Hey! Where are you guys? People gotta use this road, you know! You on a booze break or what?!
EARL: ( whispers; urgently pointing ) Val! Val! Where are the bullets? Don't we have any goddamn bullets?
VAL: Jesus! I don't
EARL: You're hung up again.
VAL: I am not!
EARL: You're hung up I tell you. You're gonna burn the clutch. Jesus, you can break an axle like Fuck you!
VAL: Fuck you!
EARL: Hey, I don't want spend the night out here!
BURT: What the hell you doing back You're never going to believe this, but the canyon road.we were on it not two hours ago.well, it's
VAL: You're never going to believe this, but the canyon road.we were on it not two hours ago.well, it's
NANCY: My God.!
MELVIN: Unreal! Where'd you get it?
VAL: Uh.didn't know we had it.
NANCY: It's disgusting.
VIOLA: Looks like.and eel.
NESTOR: Naw.eels live in water.
VAL: So.it's some kind of snake?
EARL: Or a big mother slug maybe?
BURT: Some kind of mutation.?
PHAM VAN: Don't touch, don't touch.
BURT: It's dead all right. Tore the damn thing in half.
EARL: It must've grabbed us. That's why the truck stalled-out.
VAL: ( suddenly indignant ) Yeah! Next time I tell you I'm not hung up.!
BURT: Stalled out your truck? Have to be one strong son of a bitch.
PHAM VAN: I give you boys five dollars for
VAL: PHAM VAN
PHAM VAN: Okay, ten dollars.
EARL: PHAM VAN
PHAM VAN: Okay, fifteen.
VAL: Damn right fifteen.
BURT: Just one of these couldn't eat up off a whole flock of sheep. There's gotta be more out there, a lot more.
EARL: Slick as snot and I'm not lying.
VAL: Fifteen lousy bucks.
EARL: A man who plans ahead.
BURT: ( to group ) .Look, we organize, we arm ourselves. We go out, we find those damn snake things, we make 'em extinct.
NESTOR: Come on, Burt, we don't even know what they are.
VIOLA: Might be aliens. Who knows?
MIGUEL: Why go looking for trouble?
BURT: Miguel, the trouble's come to us. If we're not ready.
HEATHER: Phone's out. Road's out. We're on our own.
NANCY: ( sarcastic ) And you two just love it, don't you?
HEATHER: Come on, Nancy, don't let's get personal. We need to do something.
BURT: Damn right. You folks gotta analyze the situation. With that road out we're completely cut off. Got the cliffs to the north, mountains east and west. That's why Heather and me settled here in the first place, geographic Well.there must be dome way to get help.
NANCY: Well.there must be dome way to get help.
VIOLA: Yes, that's what I say.
BURT: How, for chrissake? You gonna walk thirty-eight miles to Bixby?
MIGUEL: Hey, what about Pham Van's saddle
PHAM VAN: You're welcome to them. Does anybody know how to ride?
JIM: I'm dead. Let's finish in the We have to go into Bixby in the The concrete blocks are in.
MEGAN: We have to go into Bixby in the The concrete blocks are in.
JIM: The con.! Oh my God.
MEGAN: Just keep looking at that beautiful That's the sky that's going to be over our roof every night, when we're done.
JIM: That's the sky that's going to be over our roof every night, when we're done.
MEGAN: That's the sky that's going to be over our roof every night, when we're done.
JIM: ( joking ) Ah, but consider this, if we don't finish the roof, we can looks at that sky all the time. Damn that thing!
MEGAN: ( sarcastic ) We could always buy a new
MEGAN: Well, what's wrong with it?
MEGAN: You sure this is where it was?
JIM: Am I sure?! It was right there. There's the Maybe the ground caved in. There's a lot of old mines and stuff around
MEGAN: Well don't then! You don't want to fall in.
JIM: What the.?
MEGAN: Come on. Get away from it!
JIM: God, what a stink! Hear that?
MEGAN: go into town or something! Jim,
JIM: You know, I bet it's geological or something, like natural gas, or a geyser. They stink like that. Remember in Yellowstone.? Something's got me!! Oh, God! Get me Out!! GET ME OUT!!
MEGAN: Stop it! Stop it! Somebody stop it.!
VAL: ( eyeing the horses ) Pham, we don't want to be stuck on a couple of canners. They better be fast.
EARL: Relax. A snake thing like that couldn't move too quick.
VAL: Screw you. For all you know they could fly.
EARL: You want the rifle or the Smith?
VAL: ( definite ) The rifle.
BURT: You guys all set?
EARL: Ready as we'll ever be.
BURT: Heather and I are going to drive around a little, see if we can find that college girl and tell her to get her ass back into town.
VAL: Good idea. And we'll swing by the doctor's place. They were going to go into Bixby but we don't know if they left before the road was out.
HEATHER: Hold on. You guys oughta take something that packs more punch than that thirty-thirty. Take one of our Browning autos, or even my model seventy. It's three-seventy-five H and H
EARL: Gee.thanks, Heather. Hope we don't need it.
MELVIN: IT'S GOT ME! IT's GOT ME! AAAAHGH!
BURT: You stupid punk! You came close, that close!!
EARL: One of these days, Melvin, somebody's gonna kick your ass.
BURT: Well.you fellas watch yourselves.
NANCY: Come back with the Sheriff.
NESTOR: Sheriff, like hell. Come back with the National Guard.
EARL: You know, we can't possibly make Bixby by nightfall.
EARL: That means we're gonna be out here, like, in the dark.
VAL: ( resentfully ) Great. Thank you.
VAL: Hey, doctor, anybody here?
VAL: ( spooked ) Oh, man, I hate this shit.
EARL: Car's gone. We just missed them, that's all.
VAL: Then where's the goddamn Conway Twitty coming from? Oh, man.oh, man.
EARL: Here's the plan.We don't stop. Ride like hell. Tonight we keep right on going. We'll walk the horses.
VAL: it! What the hell are those things? How could they bury an entire Plymouth station wagon?
EARL: Suddenly the horses stop short. In a frenzy they wheel around, rear up, refusing to go on. The cowboys fight to control them.
VAL: I knew it! Pham Van wouldn't know a decent horse if.!
EARL: Shut up! They got wind of something they don't like!
VAL: Oh shit! But I don't see anything! Hey, you okay? You okay?
EARL: ( turning to the horse ) What about the hor.? What in the name.?
VAL: That's how they get you! They're under the goddamn ground! What the hell are they?
EARL: What the hell are they?
VAL: Sons of bitches! There must be a million of them!!
EARL: ( awestruck ) Nope.just one.
VAL: It's gaining on us!!
EARL: We can do it, we can do it!
EARL: Stupid son of a bitch.knocked itself cold. Cold, my ass! It's dead! We killed the bastard! You FUCKER!!
VAL: Cold, my ass! It's dead! We killed the bastard! You FUCKER!!
RHONDA: Hi, guys, how're you doing? Look, can I ask you something? Did you just notice something weird? Vibrations? You know, some kind of earth tremor? What's that?
EARL: Jesus Christ.think it smells like that 'cause it's dead?
RHONDA: I don't see any eyes.must be totally subterranean.and those I think they shoot right outta its mouth, hook you, and pull you right in. Good thing we stopped it before it killed anybody else.
EARL: I think they shoot right outta its mouth, hook you, and pull you right in. Good thing we stopped it before it killed anybody else.
RHONDA: ( shudders ) Yeah, I'm lucky it didn't find me. ( overwhelmed ) This is important, you know. This is like, well, let's say it, it's probably the biggest zoological discovery of the century. The century? Forget it. History.
EARL: ( hushed ) This is one big mother!
VAL: So this is the guy that had your seismos working overtime? It must push itself along with these. Hundreds of them pushing at once. That's how it can move so fast. I mean this thing was tripping sensors all over the valley. No wonder I couldn't. Hey, Rhonda, you ever heard of anything like this before?
EARL: Hey, Rhonda, you ever heard of anything like this before?
VAL: ( elbows Earl ) Sure, Earl, everybody knows about them. We just didn't tell you. Come on, nobody's ever seen one of these! We're really in on something here!
EARL: Pham Van don't get his mitts on this for no measly fifteen bucks!
VAL: You got
EARL: Here's the plan: we'll get a.a flatbed, I guess, with a big winch, figure a five ton anyway.
VAL: Naw, don't want to winch it. That'd tear it all up. Want to lift it. Some kind of crane with lifting
RHONDA: Hey, hey, shut up! The way I figure it. There are five more of these things!
EARL: Five more?
RHONDA: Yeah, darn it, look. I've got seismographs all over the valley. If you compare the different readings, there have to be five. Here's one at two o'clock yesterday, but here's another one three miles away at the same time. So that's two. Now, here.
VAL: We'll take your word for it.
EARL: Yeah. Where's your truck?
RHONDA: The other side of that dome.
EARL: Prairie dog burrow.
VAL: Little sons of bitches.
EARL: Well, at least the bastard can't climb. Pardon my French.
RHONDA: Probably couldn't move too easily on the surface.
VAL: God, the live ones smell worse tan the dead ones.
EARL: Okay, now, how far's your truck?
VAL: I don't know. If this one's any faster than that other one.
EARL: ( nods ) I think we wait right here.
RHONDA: There's nothing like them in the fossil record, I'm sure.Okay, so they predate the fossil record. That'd make them a couple of billion years old.and we've just never seen one till now. Right.
EARL: I'd vote for outer space. No way those are local boys.
VAL: ( joking ) Atomic testing. Or, no, bio- engineering! The government built them, a big surprise in the next
EARL: Well.haven't seen a sign for hours. Maybe it's long gone.
VAL: Maybe it is. Why don't you take a little stroll and see?
EARL: Fuck you, too. Pardon my French.
RHONDA: Well, we've got to do
EARL: Watch yourself! It's got a good six foot reach.
VAL: Son of a bitch!
EARL: Son of a god waiting there all this time. How the hell's it even know we're still It's been listening to us. It's got no eyes. It sure as hell can't smell anything underground, so I
VAL: It's been listening to us. It's got no eyes. It sure as hell can't smell anything underground, so I
RHONDA: Of course! It can sense the slightest seismic vibration.hear every move we make. Especially on this rock. It's a perfect I always wanted to be stuck on a desert island. But somehow I always imagined, you know, water.
EARL: You know, I hate to be crude, but I'm gonna have to take care of some business here.
VAL: ( emphatic ) Me, too.
RHONDA: ( just as emphatic ) Same here.
RHONDA: Val glances at Earl, who looks away. Who, me?
VAL: ( to Rhonda ) No problem. Anytime.
EARL: Well, folks, what's the plan?
VAL: First let's see if Stumpy's still out there.
EARL: Don't he have a home to go to?
VAL: ( grim ) Well, that's why Edgar never got down off that tower.
RHONDA: I might have an idea.
EARL: ( ignoring her ) We're gonna have to come up with some kind of plan or it's just gonna wait us to death.
RHONDA: Well, I was wondering if we Well, let's just run for it. We outran that one yesterday, at least on a sprint.
VAL: Well, let's just run for it. We outran that one yesterday, at least on a sprint.
EARL: Run for it? Running's not a plan. Running is what you do when the plan fails. You're not even trying to come up with a plan!
VAL: Well, it's not like we've got a hell of a lot of options.
RHONDA: ( interrupting ) You guys know how to pole vault? We just stay where it can't get us.on these residual boulders. My truck's parked right next to
EARL: Stay on those residual boulders! Tammy Lynn Baxter, she do a lot of
VAL: Think it's still following us?
RHONDA: Let's assume that it is.
EARL: And once we hit that truck we gotta go fast. I say we all jump together.
RHONDA: ( through clenched teeth ) Yeah. One, two, three.
VAL: Yeah. One, two, three.
EARL: ( whispers ) Come on, girl, it ain't gonna give us much time.
VAL: GO! GO! GO!
VAL: We better get everybody together.
EARL: You go north, I'll go south.
VAL: Val holds out his hand for the key. Earl tosses it to him. Val drives off. We FOLLOW Rhonda and Earl as they drive the other way, toward Viola's.
EARL: I'll bet you're sorry the college ever sent you up here.
RHONDA: Well, I'm scared, but I'm not You know, Val went to that college, too. For a whole year. Couldn't quite sit still for it, though. Had too much vinegar in his system. But once he settles down, forgets this cowboy stuff, he'll be one in a million. All right, I'm about as subtle as a donkey's ass. Pardon my French. I'm just saying the boy's got potential, that's all.
EARL: You know, Val went to that college, too. For a whole year. Couldn't quite sit still for it, though. Had too much vinegar in his system. But once he settles down, forgets this cowboy stuff, he'll be one in a million. All right, I'm about as subtle as a donkey's ass. Pardon my French. I'm just saying the boy's got potential, that's all.
MIGUEL: You serious, Val? You think we're not even safe here in town?
VAL: Ask me that after you meet one. I think we should all get the hell out while the getting's good.
NESTOR: Why not just take a Number Ten pick axe and give it one good whack.?
VAL: Nestor, damn it, these things are bigger than an Airstream trailer!
NANCY: God, I've got to find Mindy.
EARL: Hey, Pham, where's Burt and Heather?
PHAM VAN: ( hangs up CB ) Can't raise them. I guess they're still out there somewhere.
RHONDA: If you've got a radio, why aren't you calling somebody in Bixby? The police or.
PHAM VAN: Can't reach outside the valley. You know, because of the mountains.
MIGUEL: Hey, Rhonda, what's the name you call those things, huh?
PHAM VAN: Where'd they come from?
RHONDA: Huh? I don't know.
PHAM VAN: You're a scientist, right?
VIOLA: You should have a theory at least.
RHONDA: Look, these things are absolutely Yeah, but where'd they come from?
NESTOR: Yeah, but where'd they come from?
RHONDA: ( exasperated ) Where'd they come from? Okay, worms, probably in the Jurassic period. Cosmic radiation was much higher then.so they mutated.and they got so big they just sank right into the ground and fell asleep. But now continental drift has brought them to the surface, ready to be harvested by the ancient alien meat growers who planted them here.
EARL: You're right, don't matter where they come from.
VAL: Right. We need to be talking about what we're gonna do.
VIOLA: My goodness, Valentine, once they see the road is out and the phone lines are down, someone will be along to look in on us. Don't you
RHONDA: No no no, they sense the slightest vibration through the ground. That's how they see! That's how they hunt!
MIGUEL: So, like we don't vibrate, right? Maybe they won't even come to here, huh? Maybe they leave us alone.
VAL: They caught up with Edgar here. They grabbed Old Fred here. They nailed the asshole dog here. And the doctor's place is here. This valley's just one long smorgasbord and if we don't haul ass outta here we're the next
EARL: You little ass wipe! You knock that off or you're gonna be shitting that basketball! Pardon my French.
NESTOR: ( to Val ) Now, Val, let's assume they're as dangerous as you say. Where are we going to go that's safer than right Rhonda's got an idea about that.
VAL: Rhonda's got an idea about that.
RHONDA: Yes, see, they move very easily through the Pleistocene Alluvials. .the dirt.the loose soil that makes up the valley floor. But they can't move through solid rock. I think we should travel west to the mountains.
EARL: You know, up the jeep trail.
RHONDA: The mountains are solid granite. We'd be safe there, and we could hike along them.all the way to Bixby if we have to.
NANCY: Mindy! Mindy!
EARL: I'm gonna kick his ass!
VAL: I'm gonna help you.
MIGUEL: Jesus Christ! Man, you gut a gun?!
PHAM VAN: Big as a house! What are we gonna Quiet! QUIET!!
RHONDA: Quiet! QUIET!!
RHONDA: Remember.no noise. No vibration.
CROWD: ( ad lib )
MINDY!: Get off your pogo stick! Get in here, girl! Run, Mindy!
NANCY: Mindy! Mindy!
MINDY: Oww! Val, you hurt me.!
VAL: Go back, for chrissake!
EARL: We gotta get him off there. It'll suck that truck down!
EARL: Oh, Jesus. Rhonda, another one!
VAL: Come on! Outta your pants!
RHONDA: ( pointing )
LOOK OUT!: Tentacles snake out to regain their grip on the fence. Val grabs the saw and starts slashing wildly, but this time the hook-tentacles snag it and wrench it from his grasp. It slams to the ground, motor dying. The monster readies itself for the lunge that will suck Rhonda in. Val grabs her under the arms and pulls. Rhonda wriggles wildly to get out of her wire enmeshed pants. The creature lunges! Rhonda pulls free! She and Val tumble backward. The creature gets only a mouthful of Rhonda's jeans. The next instant the second creature explodes up through the ground right next to fallen Val and Rhonda! They roll sideways, come up running, and sprint for Pham Van's along an old wooden sidewalk.
EARL: Come on! Come on! Don't look back! Just run! Run like screaming fuck!
EARL: ( whispers ) Pardon my French.
VAL: You paying attention? This oughta hurt like hell.
RHONDA: It does. So, is that one of your usual jobs, saving peoples' lives?
VAL: ( embarrassed ) First time for me.
RHONDA: Oh, thank you.
MIGUEL: So what are we gonna do, you know? How long till they go away?
EARL: ( shakes his head ) They got the patience of Job. They just sit and goddamn wait til they hear something that sounds like lunch. We need a plan.
PHAM VAN: I've got a plan. You and Val take your truck, get to the mountains. Hike to Bixby. Get us some help.
VAL: Those scumsuckers are my radials, Well, we can take my truck then.
RHONDA: Well, we can take my truck then.
EARL: No good. You need major four- wheel-drive just to get up that jeep trail.
EARL: Shut it up! Shut the little bastard up!
VAL: Chuck him out the door! Like a little hors d'oeuvre.
RHONDA: Oh my God.
EARL: Son of a bitchin' lowlife, putrid, Gotta do something. Gotta get the Man, what the hell can we do to those things?
VAL: Gotta do something. Gotta get the Man, what the hell can we do to those things?
MIGUEL: ( hopeless ) Man, what the hell can we do to those things?
EARL: Well, we're sure as hell not going to sit here being quiet for God knows how long. Are we?
PHAM VAN: Now wait a minute, Earl. I got enough food here to last us for weeks. Those damn things can't wait around forever. We can do it. I mean, if we have to, right?
EARL: Jesus! Shut it off!
VAL: Son of a bitch! Son of a bitch!
VAL: Everybody! This way! The roof!
VAL: Rhonda! Keep moving. Don't stop!
MELVIN: Hey! What's going on, man?! What the hell you doing up there.?!
MIGUEL: Melvin, shut the hell up!
VAL: Nancy! Nestor!
VAL: Get up on your roof! On your roof! They can come through the floor!
EARL: Can't you shout a little quieter?
HEATHER: I can't believe it. No tracks, no sign, no spoor.
BURT: Yeah, whatever they are, you'd think after they ate all those sheep they'd have to take a dump What the hell's going on in town?
EARL: Hey, here's the plan: Nestor's Cadillac. His tires are nine hundred sixteens. We sprint for it, grab the spare, put it on our truck with our spare.
VAL: How the hell long it take change a tire?
EARL: ( sighs ) Just about too damn long. Bolt pattern's probably wrong anyway.
VAL: We need another plan. Yo, P.V., Burt here. Come back.
VAL: ( whispers into mic ) Burt, now listen. We found out what's been killing people. Over?
BURT: Negative copy on that, Pham, check your frequency. I'm on forty-nine.
BURT: Just barely, Pham. What are you all doing up on your roofs. What the hell's going on? Come back.
MIGUEL: Oh man, they're going, man! I think they're going for Burt!
VAL: Burt! This is Val! Get out of your basement!! Take your radio! You and Heather get up on your roof! Then we'll talk, okay?!
VAL: ( shouts ) Burt, get out! Get up on your roof or someplace! We found out what's been killing people! They're under the ground!
VAL: Listen! Listen! We know what they are! They're big things under the ground! Much bigger than we thought! They're coming after you! They're coming right now!
BURT: ( into CB ) We don't see anything, Val. Now what the hell are you talking about? Over.
TOWARD THEM!: Burt and Heather scramble up over a desk to keep something between them and it. Burt smashes open a fancy glass case holding a huge four-gauge elephant gun. He slams in two gigantic cartridges nearly an inch in diameter. He fires. The concussion literally shakes the building. The recoil slams Burt back against the wall. The monster bullets tear monster holes in the monster. Great gouts of curdles blood spew from it Burt hit an artery or something. The beast convulses grotesquely, then collapses, deflating like a beached whale. Burt and Heather stagger together and hug each other fervently. They stare dumbfounded at the massive dead horror. Burt suddenly shouts vehemently:
BURT: Broke into the wrong goddamn rec room, didn't you, you BASTARD!
VAL: Uh.roger that, Burt. Uh, congratulations. Uh, be advised, however, there are four more, repeat, four more motherfuckers. Come back.
VAL: They got one! They killed one of the sons of bitches!
MELVIN: Way to go, dudes!
EARL: Well, I guess we don't get to make fun of Burt's lifestyle anymore,
VAL: Burt, any chance you can get the rest of them?
BURT: ( into CB ) One second, Val.
HEATHER: You're not getting any penetration, even with the elephant gun.
BURT: ( into CB ) Val, we can't get them. Never figured on having to shoot through dirt! Best goddamn bullet stop there is. Come back.
EARL: ( into CB ) Okay, Burt, listen. Forget shooting them. Tell me this: can you get to your truck?
EARL: Good. You've got the only truck in the valley that can make it up that damn jeep trail. So, here's the plan: You and Heather go for help. Get to the mountains. Hey, guys! They're up to
RHONDA: Hey, guys! They're up to
VAL: ( to Rhonda ) What's it doing?
RHONDA: Why do you all keep asking me?
MIGUEL: Hey, there's another one coming!
EARL: What the hell was
MIGUEL: They weren't making no noise. Why they bothering them for?
VAL: ( mind racing ) They're studying the buildings. trying to figure them out.
RHONDA: Yeah, they're confused. They can feel our vibrations, but they can't find us.
VAL: They're working together, too.
EARL: Yeah, like they got a plan.
EARL: ( into CB ) Hang on, Burt. The bastards are up to something.
SCREAMS!: DOLLY along the ground, heading toward the storage shed where Melvin is. All we can see is dirt, but we can still hear Nestor screaming UNDERGROUND! His screams get more and more faint as DOLLY ENDS on:
MELVIN: Oh, wow, man! No way! No fucking way, man.!
VAL: They knocked his place down on purpose, man. They're gonna tear this whole town out from under us!
HEATHER: Yeah, Val.
HEATHER: Knock it off, Burt!
BURT: I think I scared it!
HEATHER: ( into CB ) We're here, Val. Just tell us what you need. Come back.
HEATHER: We're with you, Val. We'll come get everybody. Just hang on tight.
VAL: ( into CB ) Yeah, Heather, we got you.
MELVIN: Hey, you better think of man! You gotta do something!
EARL: You and Val, man! What?!! Since when the hell's every goddamn thing up to us?!
MELVIN: You and Val, man! What?!! Since when the hell's every goddamn thing up to us?!
VAL: What?!! Since when the hell's every goddamn thing up to us?!
RHONDA: ( flatly ) You guys do all the odd jobs.
EARL: We don't have a hell of a lot of time here.
RHONDA: Look, the situation hasn't changed. We still have to get to solid rock. There must be some way!
VAL: ( shouts, angry ) Like what?! There's nothing left that'll make it to the mountains!
MIGUEL: Hey, Val, quiet, man!
VAL: We need a helicopter is what we need, or a goddamn tank.
EARL: Wait a minute.the Cat. Could we take the Cat?
VAL: ( dubious ) Jesus. It's slower than hell.
EARL: Yeah, but it weighs better than thirty tons. No way they could stop it.
MIGUEL: We can't all fit on that bulldozer.
VAL: But.we could pull something! We could, I don't know, drag a car behind it!
EARL: A car, huh? Like a big armored car? Need something bigger, tougher.our truck maybe.or, hell, that old semi trailer!
VAL: Its tires are flat.
EARL: Doesn't matter. The cat can pull out of here!
VAL: out of here!
EARL: We got a plan! 'Course, that's one helluva long
RHONDA: Listen, they only respond to vibration, right? Couldn't we. distract them somehow?
VAL: Yeah, good! Something to keep them busy. We need a decoy.
EARL: Hey, Melvin, you wanna make a buck?
MELVIN: Fuck you!
MIGUEL: Hey, how about the tractor? Start him up. Let him go by itself. Let those things chase it all over is they like that noise.
EARL: ( nodding ) Not bad. ( to Val ) What do you think?
VAL: I think the ground's getting closer. I think we do it. We're gonna save our asses here!
RHONDA: Wait! How are you going to know they're all following it?
VAL: Good point.
EARL: We got two right here. Nancy, we gotta find all four of them. How many you got over there?
NANCY: There's one. I think one.
EARL: ( into CB ) Burt, Heather, we got a little sort of a plan going here, maybe. Can you tell if you've still got any of those things out at your place? Come back.
BURT: ( into CB ) Yeah, still got one poking around.
BURT: Roger that.
VAL: Like hell you are.
EARL: Like hell you are.
VAL: Get real. I'm faster than you.
EARL: Only if something happens to me. Look, you'd better listen. I'm older and wiser.
VAL: Only if something happens to me. Look, you'd better listen. I'm older and wiser.
VAL: Yeah, well, you're half right. Damn. Guess I have to do it.
EARL: ( shakes his head ) I won. I pick who does it. Ready when you are, Miguel!
MIGUEL: There they go! They're chasing it!
NANCY: It's going. There goes this one! It's going!
VAL: Watch your ass, shithead.
EARL: Don't worry about me, jerkoff. You goddamn suicidal son of a
EARL: Oh my God!
EARL: He'll never make it! They're gonna get him!
RHONDA: ( yells )
MOVE!: 138 EXT. EDGE OF TOWN - VAL - DAY 138
EARL: It worked! They can't find him! Okay, okay.uh.we gotta make some noise.a lot of noise! HEY,
GET ME.!!!!: He starts jumping noisily up and down. Miguel joins in, cursing the monsters in Spanish.
EARL: That did it, girl! Goddamn good
EARL: Don't worry. No way they can lift that tower. I mean it's really
RHONDA: They're not trying to
VAL: NO FUCKING WAY!
MELVIN: Way to go! Dumb fucking worms! Now haul ass over here, man! Me next! Get me off of here.!
MELVIN: Oh shit! Oh, God! Help!
VAL: We got about three seconds!
EARL: Well, come on!
BURT: ( impressed ) God damn! Armored transport!
VAL: Let's go you two. We're headed for the mountains.
BURT: In a minute. Come on, Burt, we can't hold still long. They're damn smart and getting smarter by the minute.
VAL: Come on, Burt, we can't hold still long. They're damn smart and getting smarter by the minute.
BURT: That's fine. We've got some new things to teach them.
VAL: Damn it! They'll sink this rig just like a boat!
EARL: See that? They're doing it now! They try it every time we hold
VAL: Jesus Christ, we're only going nine miles. Be there in two hours, tops!
BURT: Yeah, well those things are gonna be on our ass every foot of the way, right?
BURT: What do you think? Max firepower I'd go for penetration. The 458 shooting solids less ammo to carry anyway.
HEATHER: I'd go for penetration. The 458 shooting solids less ammo to carry anyway.
TOWNSFOLK: ( adlib ) Come on! Who cares! Forget it! Let's go!
MELVIN: Give me a gun! I'll take one!
BURT: I wouldn't give World War Three.
BURT: Food for five years. A thousand gallons of gas. Air filtration. Water filtration. Geiger counter. Bomb shelter. .underground goddamn monsters?!
EARL: Any sign of'em?
MIGUEL: Maybe they just gave up, you know.
MELVIN: Yeah, the bulldozer's too much for them, man.
BURT: There we go, solid rock! What's that?
HEATHER: What's that?
NANCY: Is it them?
MIGUEL: What else could it be?
MINDY: What're they doing?
MELVIN: Maybe they're taking a dump.
RHONDA: We're not going over there, right?
EARL: No. We go straight.
VAL: Damn it. What the hell are they doing? They're up to something.
EARL: I don't care what they're doing as long as they're doing it way over
VAL: They.they dug a trap! I can't believe this!
BURT: Hungry?! Eat this!! Keep your heads down!
RHONDA: There they are!
MIGUEL: Hey, Burt.did you get one.!
RHONDA: No, there's still four of them. See.there's like four different dust trails.
VAL: Sure got their attention, though. Nice going, Burt. Earl, what about the Cat?
EARL: No way. It's down for the count.
RHONDA: Here they come! They're coming
VAL: Come on, everybody! We gotta run for those rocks over there!
EARL: Jesus, Val, it's pretty far.
MELVIN: Yeah, man! They'll get us!
VAL: There sure as hell get us if we stay here!
RHONDA: Wait, wait, listen. Burt do you have any more of those things?
BURT: The bombs? Damn right I do.
RHONDA: Well, what is you throw one way, the way we want to go. Then, when the explosion happens. if it drives them away again.we all run like goddamn bastards! Pardon my French.
MELVIN: What if it doesn't scare them? What if they don't run?
RHONDA: I don't think it does scare them! It hurts them! They're so sensitive to sound, they have to run! It hurts too much!
BURT: She's got my vote.
VAL: Right. We're gonna run. Get Mindy, you understand what we're going to do? And don't worry, they can't get us once we're on those rocks.
MELVIN: I don't know, man. They're too fast! You can't outrun them, no
BURT: Here, kid. This'll make'em think Heads down!!
RHONDA: It worked! There they go!
VAL: LET'S DO IT!
MELVIN: Burt, you bastard!
MELVIN: You asshole! There's no bullets in this gun!
BURT: Got you moving, didn't it?
EARL: So.now what?
RHONDA: Could we make it to the mountains?
VAL: ( gestures to Burt's bombs ) No way. We'd need fifty of those
EARL: Well.that's it. We're not getting off this rock.
VAL: Not going to pole vault anywhere. That's for sure.
HEATHER: What's the matter with you? What are you talking about?!
RHONDA: They'll just wait out there till we're dead. That's what they do.
BURT: What? Well, for chrissake, we could have made a stand at our place! We had food, water.
EARL: You can't fight'em that way.
BURT: You two jackasses hauled us way the hell out here.!?
VAL: BACK OFF, BURT.! Well, who put you two in charge?
BURT: Well, who put you two in charge?
NANCY: ( shouts ) Burt! Those animals would have killed you! ( softly ) You haven't seen what they can do.
VAL: ( calmer ) They'd have dug your place out from under you in half an hour!
BURT: ( losing it ) If it comes to starvation, I know what I'm doing. Take one of these. Walk right out there with the fuse lit. Stuff it down my pants and let 'em take me down. BOOOOM!
HEATHER: Jesus, honey!
EARL: You know, that's not a bad idea!
EARL: No, I mean, it gives me an idea. going fishing like.
VAL: There! Right straight out in front of you.
BURT: How much you think?
EARL: I don't know. They're pretty quick.fifteen seconds?
EARL: What the hell is that, anyway?
BURT: Cannon fuse.
EARL: What do
BURT: ( matter of fact ) My cannon.
VAL: Come on, you're not going to do your lasso thing.?
EARL: Hey, just 'cause you're no good with a rope.
RHONDA: Come on.come on.
BURT: Take it.take the bait.
EARL: Where the hell are they? Hope they didn't wise up.
RHONDA: ( pointing ) Nope, there! That's one.
HEATHER: Make noise. Everybody! COME ON!
BURT: COME ON, YOU SLIMEBAGS! OVER HERE! FRESH MEAT.!
FRESH MEAT.!: The crowd keeps up the ruckus. The creatures are distracted by the noise, but this time they don't automatically go after it. Their big snouts turn uncertainly this way and that. But they just stay where they are. Their hook-tentacles slide out, feeling all around. Earl whispers:
EARL: They're not falling for it!
HEATHER: I'll make'em pay attention
VAL: They're.they're trying to make us Or just knock us over. Look, use the bomb!
EARL: Or just knock us over. Look, use the bomb!
VAL: It's out last one. We can't kill them all.
EARL: Use the fucking bomb!
VAL: So, we get back on that rock and in three days we're dead anyway.
EARL: ( slowly; terrified ) I want to live for the three days.
BURT: What's wrong? Use the bomb, for
VAL: No wait! This way!
EARL: ( gasping ) What the hell are you doing?!!
VAL: I GOT A GODDAMN PLAN!!
EARL: This better be one great plan!
VAL: Get ready!
EARL: Light it, man! LIGHT IT!!
VAL: Not yet, not yet.
EARL: Too far! You threw it behind them!
VAL: Well, it just suddenly hit me, you know? Stampede?
MINDY: A highway maintenance truck is rolling into town followed by a police car. The townsfolk happily swarm around the MAINTENANCE MEN and POLICE OFFICER who gape at the destroyed Val and Earl eagerly start bolting on one of their new wheels.
EARL: Road's in!
VAL: Road's in! Now, soon as we hit Bixby we start making phone calls. We could make some real money off this whole thing, get in People Sell the movie rights. We're going straight from blue-collar to white Yeah.but no ties.
EARL: Sell the movie rights. We're going straight from blue-collar to white Yeah.but no ties.
VAL: Sell the movie rights. We're going straight from blue-collar to white Yeah.but no ties.
EARL: Yeah.but no ties.
VAL: No ties.
RHONDA: Hi, guys. Burt loaned me his Howdy, Rhonda.
EARL: Howdy, Rhonda.
RHONDA: You're really leaving, huh?
EARL: You bet. You gonna be staying up Well, yeah! There's going to be major research up here. First thing is to get some pictures of that one we dug up. Uh.well, maybe I'll see you two And thanks for everything, you know, saving my life and stuff.
RHONDA: Well, yeah! There's going to be major research up here. First thing is to get some pictures of that one we dug up. Uh.well, maybe I'll see you two And thanks for everything, you know, saving my life and stuff.
VAL: ( awkwardly ) Well.you're welcome.
RHONDA: Well.see ya.
EARL: Christ, Val, maybe she's not your type, but you could, at least, be Civil? I'm civil.
VAL: Civil? I'm civil.
EARL: You're not civil, you're glum. We got the world by the tail with a downhill pull and all of a sudden you go glum on me. Oh my God. She got to you. You do like her!
VAL: Somebody paying you to do this?
EARL: She just practically asked you for a date. What the hell is wrong?!
VAL: Earl, get real. What does she need with a guy like me?
EARL: What was that? All this time she's not good enough for you. Now, suddenly, you're not good enough for her? God, my work is never done. You don't decide is you're worthless, she does. But you gotta give her a chance!
VAL: Earl, I'm not gonna make a fool of myself! You got that covered.
EARL: Fine, make the mistakes I did. I think I'll just be playing this hand myself.
VAL: She likes helped her out.
EARL: She likes helped her out.
VAL: You are so full of shit.
EARL: Oh yeah? Think about this: She ain't as narrow-minded as you. I'll lay odds she's looking for character in a man. For my part, I'd be proud to have her. I'd goddamn worship her. I'm going out there right now, help her take those pictures.set up her seismo-jiggers. Whatever she wants. Who the hell knows what'll
FADE OUT: THE END
THE END: Writers : S. S. Wilson Brent Maddock
