FADE IN: A white title appears on a black screen. The title fades off, replaced by a second title.
TRUMAN: As Truman drinks, he becomes aware of the delighted squeals of children coming from the gymnasium of Utopia Elementary School, adjacent to the parking lot. The sound of the children triggers a memory in his head.
FATHER: ( out of breath, clutching his side ) Truman! Truman! Stop!
FATHER: Come down His father's unnatural anxiety makes the next bay even more tantalizing. The boy considers defying his father. He puts his hand on the rock above him to stretch up and sneak a peek at the other side. One good stretch would do it.
FATHER: ( reading Truman's mind, enraged ) ( sensing his father is keeping something from him ) Why? What's there?
TRUMAN: ( sensing his father is keeping something from him ) Why? What's there?
FATHER: ( unconvincing ) Nothing's there. It's the same as this. ( trace of desperation ) Come down, please!
FATHER: I told you to stay close. Don't ever leave my sight again. You gotta know your limitations. You could've been washed away by the tide.
TRUMAN: ( quickly recovering ) Gimme a copy of "The Sydney Morning Herald".
VENDOR: We ran out.
TRUMAN: ( hastily departing ) Thanks anyway.
DOUGLAS: I wanna be a chiropractor like my dad.
SISTER: ( impressed ) Tell the class what a chiropractor does, He helps people by fixing their backs, Sister Olivia.
DOUGLAS: He helps people by fixing their backs, Sister Olivia.
SISTER: That's right, Douglas. Perhaps I'll be your first patient. The CLASS titters. Douglas sits down, pleased with himself, throwing a smirk to Truman.
SISTER: What about you, Truman? Truman rises to his feet.
TRUMAN: I want to be an explorer .like Magellan. The Sister's face falls.
SISTER: No one's going to pay you to do that, Besides, you're too late. There's nothing left to explore. The class roars with laughter and Truman takes his seat.
TRUMAN: ( into receiver ) .okay, okay, let's call it what it is. I'm not gonna lie to you.life insurance is death insurance.you just gotta ask yourself two questions.one, in the event of your death, will anyone experience financial loss?.and two, do you care?
TRUMAN: ( into receiver ) Hold on will ya? ( to Clerk, putting receiver to chest, referring to the book ) This's no good. Lumps all drownings together. I need drownings broken down by category.
TRUMAN: ( returning to his call ) .just think about what I've been saying and lemme.hello?.
TRUMAN: ( lowering his voice ) Can you connect me with directory inquiries in Sydney, Australia? ( a long delay makes Truman even more uncomfortable ) .er, yes. Do you have a listing for a Lauren Powers. ( pause ) .nothing listed?.what about a Sylvia Powers.nothing? Thanks.
TYRONE: ( nauseatngly cheerful ) How's it goin', Truman?
TRUMAN: ( deadpan ) Not bad. I just won the State Lottery.
TYRONE: ( not listening to Truman's reply, as Truman anticipated ) Good. Good.
TRUMAN: Tyrone, what if I said I didn't want meatball today?
TYRONE: ( not missing a beat ) I'd ask for identification.
FEMALE CASHIER: ( a whisper to prevent Truman overhearing ) He's right there. You're supposed to pay when he's here.
MALE CUSTOMER: ( nonchalant shrug as he departs ) He never notices.
TYRONE: Hold on, Truman. I got somethin' to show ya. Tyrone holds up a front page of the New York Post that features a photograph of a scaled-down replica of Columbus' Santa Maria, moored in front of the Manhattan skyline. Truman's eyes widen at the photograph.
TYRONE: ( referring to the photo ) The flagship of Christoforo.our Genoese navigator, huh? I know you love this like me.
TRUMAN: ( averting his eyes with difficulty ) Not me. You got the wrong man.
TYRONE: See ya tomorrow, Truman.
CHRISTOF: ( never taking his eyes from the monitor ) You ever pass a car wreck on the side of the road? They're pulling out a body. You know you shouldn't look, but you do.
MAN: Hello?.I'm sorry, I got more than enough He hangs up. After a moment the phone rings again.
TRUMAN: ( into receiver ) .this isn't about insurance, this is about the great variable - when will death occur? Could be a week, a month, a year. Could happen today.A sunbather, minding his own business, gets stabbed in the heart by the tip of a runaway beach umbrella.No way you can guard against that kinda thing, no way at all.
LAWRENCE: ( handing Truman some documentation ) Hey, Burbank, I got a bridge-buyer in Stapleton I need you to cloes by four.
TRUMAN: Stapleton on Staten Island?
LAWRENCE: ( sarcastic ) You know another one?
TRUMAN: I can't do it.
LAWRENCE: ( insistent ) A half hour across the bay. Sea air. Do you good.
TRUMAN: No, I. .I got an appointment uptown.
LAWRENCE: This is a sure thing. They're upping our quota. You need this. Lawrence exits the cubicle. Truman's head drops. He picks up the framed picture of his wife from his desk. MERYL, early thirties, a petite woman easy to mistake for frail. He deposits the photo in his briefcase and departs.
TRUMAN: ( shouting above the wind ) Let's go further, daddy! Let's go further!
FATHER: ( shouting back ) It's getting late, Truman.
TRUMAN: ( entreating his father )
COMMUTER 1: ( commenting out of Truman's earshot ) I can't believe he's taking the long way.
COMMUTER 2: He'll never make it.
TRUMAN: I'm here to see a Mr Hamilton.
CONCIERGE: You from the insurance company? You missed him.
TRUMAN: When will he be back?
CONCIERGE: Vacation. Two months. He waited as long as he could. You was supposed to be here by four. A clock on the wall reads 4.l2pm.
YOUTH 1: ( to woman ) You wanna read to me?
YOUTH 1: ( more insistent ) You wannna read to me?
YOUTH 2: ( menacing ) My friend asked you a question.
WOMAN: ( reaching for the book ) Now you're gonna have to ask me how it ends.
YOUTH 2: Now you're gonna have to ask me how it ends. The train pulls into a deserted station. Feeling vulnerable, the woman jumps up from her seat and exits. The youths, sensing a chase, also exit. Scanning the empty platform, the woman realizes she has made a serious error. Truman watches through the train's open door as the boys corner the frightened woman but still he remains in his seat.
YOUTH 1: We're gonna tell you how it ends, baby. One of the youths produces a knife from his pocket and waves it in the woman's face.
YOUTH 2: Don't you wanna know how it ends? The boys pin the woman to the station wall with the weight of their bodies. The woman looks again in Truman's direction. Again she makes eye contact, eyes pleading.
WOMAN: ( screams ) Help!! Please, help!!
WOMAN: The threesome walk along the platform together, as if lifelong
WOMAN: ( pondering the incident ) He did nothing.
YOUTH 1: ( shrugs, suddenly more couth ) Physical violence paralyzes him. Always
MERYL: ( proudly referring to the knife-set ) I got it free with the tune-up.
MERYL: You missed a section. Meryl enters the house. Truman restarts the lawnmower and obediantly pushes it towards the offending patch of lawn. As the mower brushes up against the unconforming blades of grass, Truman pulls back abruptly. He checks the kitchen window for Meryl and wheels the mower away, leaving the patch uncut.
TRUMAN: ( referring to her hands ) Do they hurt?
MERYL: I was afraid I'd seize up during cross. One of the keys kept sticking. Truman picks up Meryl's newspaper and skims idly through it. He notes an article headlined, "SLAYING TRIAL ENTERS SIXTH WEEK".
TRUMAN: ( referring to the article ) Is he gonna take the stand?
MERYL: ( dispassionate, matter-of-fact ) No point. Two eye witnesses saw him near the dumpster where they found the legs.
MERYL: You gonna eat before you leave?
TRUMAN: I'll get something out.
MERYL: ( sensing something odd in his demeanor ) Did something happen today?
TRUMAN: ( composing himself ) What could happen?
MARLON: Ouch. Whose nuts were those?
TRUMAN: ( opening a beer from the six pack )
TRUMAN: I gotta get out, Marlon.
MARLON: ( mild interest only ) Yeah? Outta what?
TRUMAN: Outta my job, outta Queens. Marlon takes a practise swing.
MARLON: Outta your with your job? You gotta great job. You gotta desk job. I'd kill for a desk Marlon addresses the ball and swings. A sweeping hook shot that bounces off the freeway out of bounds.
MARLON: ( annoyed by the errant tee shot ) It doesn't mean anything.
TRUMAN: It doesn't mean anything.
MARLON: ( still looking in the direction of his ball ) Nothing means anything. Try stocking vending machines for a living. My biggest decision of the day is whether the Almond Joys look better next to the Snickers or the Baby Ruths. ( adamant ) I gotta get out. ( skeptical, picking up his beer ) Sure and go where?
TRUMAN: ( adamant ) I gotta get out. ( skeptical, picking up his beer ) Sure and go where?
MARLON: ( skeptical, picking up his beer ) Sure and go where?
TRUMAN: ( unable to disguise his reverence ) ( impressed ) No shit. Where is Australia exactly? Near England?
MARLON: ( impressed ) No shit. Where is Australia exactly? Near England?
TRUMAN: See here, this is Queens. All the way round here, Australia. You can't get any further away before you start coming back. Y'know, there're still places in Australia where no human being has ever set foot.
MARLON: ( still dubious ) So when are you leaving?
TRUMAN: It's not that simple. Takes money, planning. You can't just up and go. Oh, I'm gonna do it, don't worry about that. I just gotta move slow. Pick a moment. Bonus time's just around the corner. Soon as I get a retaining wall built on the back of the house I can start thinking about selling up.and I'll be gone. Up and away on that big steel bird. I'm going, don't you worry about that. Marlon nods even though the concept of taking flight is beyond his imagination.
MARLON: I never knew anybody who got out. An awkward moment. Truman, once again, not so sure of himself. He masks his doubt by teeing up another ball.
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. FREEWAY. LATER THAT NIGHT. TRUMAN and MARLON wander down the empty freeway, retrieving the golf balls. As they return them to the bucket they check the initial on each ball to determine the winner of their long-drive competition.
TRUMAN: ( slightly the worse for drink ) Tick-fucking-tock. That's the fucking problem, Marlon. I'm thirty-four. I'm older than Jesus Christ. Where do the dreams go, Marlon?
TRUMAN: Where do the dreams go, Marlon?
MARLON: ( picking up the last ball marked with an initial "T", trying to ignore the question ) You win.
TRUMAN: ( humoring his maudlin friend ) They're still there. Just buried under what we settled for.
MARLON: ( humoring his maudlin friend ) They're still there. Just buried under what we settled for.
TRUMAN: ( referring to the light ) You really think it could've dropped off an ( unimpressed ) Sure. It's halogen. You oughta report it. ( quickly changing the subject ) You coming for a drink?
MARLON: ( unimpressed ) Sure. It's halogen. You oughta report it. ( quickly changing the subject ) You coming for a drink?
TRUMAN: I can't tonight.
TRUMAN: ( shouting at the surf ) I'm sorry! I'm sorry!
MERYL: ( suggestive ) What are you doing? Come to bed.
TRUMAN: ( ignoring the suggestion ) I figure we could scrape together eight ( suddenly exasperated ) Oh. God, everytime you and Marlon
MERYL: ( suddenly exasperated ) Oh. God, everytime you and Marlon
TRUMAN: We could bum around the world for a year on that.
MERYL: And then what, Truman? We'd be back to where we were five years ago. You're talking like a teenager.
TRUMAN: Maybe I Getting to his feet. Truman holds Meryl by the arms, talking excitedly to her the way we imagine he did when they were Meryl, it'd be an adventure.
TRUMAN: Meryl, it'd be an adventure.
MERYL: We said we'd try for a baby. Isn't that enough of an adventure?
TRUMAN: That can wait. I want to get away. See some of the world. Explore. Meryl gives a derisive laugh.
MERYL: You want to be an explorer? You mean like all the other great explorers from Queens? You don't even have a passport, Truman. I bet you don't even know how to get one. The words sting. Truman turns away. Seeing the pain she's caused, she changes tack.
MERYL: This'll pass. Everybody thinks like this now and then. Come to bed.
GUARD 1: How can they have a child?
GUARD 2: It's not gonna be his, you idiot.
GUARD 1: Why not?
GUARD 2: You think she'd go through with it? Guess I always thought they'd adopt.
TRUMAN: ( plaintively calling into the mist )
TRUMAN: ( almost to himself, mouthing the word )
TRUMAN: ( to BUS DRIVER ) Hey, stop! Stop!!
ATTENDANT: ( running after the car )
TRUMAN: ( reading aloud, the ID number of the bus ) Two, four, oh, six.
TRUMAN: ( shouting at the cars ) Outta the way! Outta the way!
ATTENDANT: What the fuck are you trying to pull?!
TRUMAN: ( cowering, the fight instantly gone out of him ) I'm sorry! I'm sorry! No harm done! No harm done!
ATTENDANT: ( feverishly inspecting the fenders for dents, he finds none ) I oughta fuck you up!
ATTENDANT: Get the fuck outta here. The Attendant shoves Truman's briefcase into his arms and brushes him aside. As he departs, Truman notices that the traffic jam in the street and the mysterious crowd of pedestrians has dissolved.
MARLON: What're you doing? The man told you there's no such bus.
TRUMAN: He's lying. Two, four, oh, six was definitely the number. Marlon stops walking. Truman continues his inspection. Seeing there is no reasoning with him, Marlon hurries to catch him up.
TRUMAN: I never believed he was dead.
MARLON: ( trying to be patient ) C'mon, Truman, a lotta times they don't find a body. You know what the currents are like in that water.
TRUMAN: ( shudders, a memory flashing in his head ) You had to see his face when that wave hit. He wasn't scared Marion. It was like he was expecting it, waiting for it. He knew it was coming.
MARLON: Why would he fake it? He's not Elvis Presley.
TRUMAN: ( ignoring the joke, pondering the morning's events ) You know what was really strange about today? An old woman with a little dog and a businessman, walking in opposite directions on the sidewalk, both react like clockwork. They force him onto a bus against his will, a bus that doesn't normally stop outside my building. And when I'm giving chase, the bus never makes another stop and I get the feeling that the traffic and the pedestrians are working together to make sure I never catch up with it.
MARLON: ( sarcastic ) Oh, so now it's also the pedestrians and the buses and the cars? What are you saying, the entire population of Lower Manhattan is conspiring to stop you finding out that your father staged his death to pursue a life as a street person? Oh yeah, that makes sense.
TRUMAN: You think I imagined it, don't you?
MARLON: I think you're missing your dad. The anniversary was yesterday, wasn't it? Truman is surprised Marlon remembered. Marlon nods to the You got sand in your cuffs. Truman looks down at his feet. A small, tell-tale pile of sand has poured out of his tight trouser cuff.
MARLON: You got sand in your cuffs. Truman looks down at his feet. A small, tell-tale pile of sand has poured out of his tight trouser cuff.
TRUMAN: Maybe you're right. If only the old woman hadn't left her dog behind. We see a flashback in Truman's head of the earlier scene in the Lower Manhattan street. It confirms that the old woman's DOG was abandoned on the sidewalk.
RAQUEL: Don't you dare go in. Truman. I just got her off to sleep.
TRUMAN: It was Dad. I swear. Raquel fixes Truman with a contemptuous stare.
RAQUEL: Well, the next time he shows up. bring him over. Until then, I'm not saying a word about this to Mom and neither are you.
TRUMAN: If it wasn't him, it was his twin. Can you think of a reason he'd want to hide from us?
RACQUEL: I know a reason he'd want to hide from Look at how you treat us. You live ten minutes away, we hardly see you from year to year and then you turn up with this story so insane you don't even believe it yourself. Haven't you hurt her enough, Truman? She already blames you.
TRUMAN: ( incredulous ) I was seven years old!
RAQUEL: But you're here and he's not. Has it really taken you this long to invent a story to ease your conscience?
TRUMAN: I'm telling you he's alive!
RAQUEL: ( snapping back bitterly ) And I'm telling you he's fish food!
CHRISTOF: You did well.
CHLOE: We've tightened security. Christof nods indifferently, knowing the damage is already done.
CHLOE: ( referring to Kirk ) Why would he do this to us?
CHRISTOF: Old age. Sentiment. You play someone's father all those years, you are someone's father.He sees the way Truman is. He feels responsible. Christof turns and enters an office adjacent to the balcony, containing a state-of-the-art monitor and VCR. Chloe follows. Christof plays the cued recording without comment. We focus on the screen.
YOUNG CHRISTOF: ( barking instructions to Kirk ) .as soon as we give the cue, tack to windward.
YOUNG CHRISTOF: The freak wave will strike from the starboard side. Remember, you don't go to the diver. The diver goes to you. To simulate the wave, one of the divers puts his full weight on the side of the dinghy to capsize it. Kirk and the boy are tossed into the water. While the boy immediately bobs to the surface in his life jacket, Kirk fails to surface. After a long moment, he reappears with the second diver some distance away. now wearing a spare aqualung.
YOUNG CHRISTOF: .Good! Good!.of course, on the day you only surface once you're safely beyond the cove.Try it one more time.You okay? Kirk is staring at Truman's stand-in, clinging to the upturned boat. Kirk's expression suggests he is not a totally willing participant in the masquerade. The present-day Christof freezes the monitor on Kirk's uncertain INT. TRUMAN'S GARAGE. DUSK. A cluttered garage, dimly lit by a single work lamp. TRUMAN looks over his shoulder before turning his attention to a dusty trunk under a canvas sheet. The trunk is fastened with a combination lock. He deftly dials the correct combination and opens the lid. Inside, mementoes from his youth. A "HOW TO SAIL" book, a stack of "GREAT EXFLORERS" magazines, and beneath it all, a garment in a drycleaning bag. Truman carefully lifts up the plastic to reveal a schoolgirl's lavender cardigan decorated with pearl beading. He puts the cardigan to his nose and breathes deeply. Footsteps. Truman hastily drops the cardigan in the trunk and shuts the lid. MERYL, standing close behind.
MERYL: What're you doing out here?
TRUMAN: ( turning attention to an upturned mower on the garage floor ) Fixing the mower.
MERYL: ( concerned ) Your sister called. She was worried about you.
TRUMAN: ( matter-of-fact ) I saw my father on State Street dressed as a homeless man.
MERYL: ( attempting to comfort ) I kept seeing my brother for years after he died.
TRUMAN: ( irritated at her subtle dismissiveness ) What do you want?
MERYL: I made macaroni.
TRUMAN: I gotta go out. About a replacement. .mower blade. Meryl nods, not at all convinced. After an uncomfortable pause, she turns and heads back to the house.
MALE VOICE: ( from radio, in distress himself ) .something's wrong. Change frequencies.
VERONICA: Hey, Truman! Where you bin? You bin cheatin' on me? Veronica opens the door and folds herself into the passenger INT. TRUMAN'S CAR. NIGHT. VERONICA knows the form. As TRUMAN pulls away from the curb, she is already removing the lavender cardigan from the drycleaning bag on the back seat. She drapes the cardigan around her shoulders.
VERONICA: Bout time you got this thing cleaned. Don't tell me you bin makin' your old lady wear it. Truman passes her the brown paper bag without reply. Veronica removes a bottle of perfume and proceeds to liberally apply it.
VERONICA: ( examining the bottle ) God, do they still make this stuff? What's the Sell-By Date?
CHLOE: ( into a flip-phone, condescending ) .you see him messing with the antenna.what did you think would happen?."lapse of concentration", is that what you call it? I call it amateur-hour. ( sarcastic ) In case you hadn't noticed, we don't get to do it over.
CHLOE: ( as she hangs up, querying the smile that plays around his lips ) You think this is funny?
CHRISTOF: The mask has slipped before. Everything can be explained. TRUMAN kills the lights and he and VERONICA exit the car unaware that they are being observed.
CHRISTOF: ( adopting a more serious tone as he returns his attention to Truman ) What's dangerous is that he makes the connection between what happened today and the girl.
VERONICA: Like I say, I don't normally do this. I gotta charge extra. Truman nods his agreement and forks over several bills. Veronica deposits the money in her purse and perches herself as modestly as possible on the edge of the fountain. When she is ready, Truman tenderly places his arm around her shoulder. Veronica responds, hesitantly, becoming immersed in her role. She reaches out her own hand and rests it on the nape of his neck. Slowly both heads drift together, but stop just short of their lips meeting, agonizingly close. So close they can feel each other's breath, barely a sliver of daylight separating them. Then finally their lips touch in the most gentle of caresses. They hold the kiss for another long moment and then simultaneously break. As they look into each other's eyes, Truman goes to say something but Veronica hushes him by placing a finger to his lips. Then abruptly she moves out of frame, the cardigan falling from around her shoulders in her haste. From Truman's POV we focus on the cardigan on the pavement, triggering a flashback in his head.
TRUMAN: ( to Lauren, tongue-tied, a strangled greeting ) ( to Lauren as the two girlfriends abruptly depart ) See you in class.
GIRLFRIEND 1: ( to Lauren as the two girlfriends abruptly depart ) See you in class.
TRUMAN: Lauren, right? Her name is carefully written in blue ink on the covers of her text books.
LAUREN: ( ignoring her lack of interest ) Look. I was wonder
TRUMAN: ( ignoring her lack of interest ) Look. I was wonder
LAUREN: I can't go out with you.
TRUMAN: I haven't asked you yet.
LAUREN: Well when you do, that's my answer. I'm sorry. It's not up to me.
TRUMAN: ( summoning up courage from somewhere ) Why, you married?
TRUMAN: I'm not asking you to have my children, just a pizza. How about Saturday?
LAUREN: ( adamant )
TRUMAN: Lauren looks around the deserted school corridor.
LAUREN: If we don't go now, it won't happen. Truman hesitates.
TRUMAN: If we don't go now, it won't happen. Truman hesitates.
LAUREN: If we don't go now, it won't happen. Truman hesitates.
LAUREN: ( impatient, looking anxiously around ) Well, what do you want to do?
LAUREN: I never knew this place existed. They both stare down at the inviting water. Lauren suddenly throws off her cardigan and jumps into the pool without another thought. She comes splashing to the surface. Truman stares down, transfixed hy the shimmering water.
LAUREN: Come on! Come on! It's wonderful!
TRUMAN: ( nervous ) I.I can't.
LAUREN: That's right. Oh, God, I'm sorry. She quickly climbs out of the pool, dripping wet.
TRUMAN: ( confused ) Why? You've got nothing to be sorry about. Has someone been talking to you?
LAUREN: ( to the sky, upset ) Get me out of here. I don't want to be here.
TRUMAN: ( confused, calling after her ) What are you talking about? Lauren! Lauren!
LAUREN: ( distraught ) My name's not Lauren! It's Sylvia!
SYLVIA: In a minute someone's going to come and stop me talking to you.
TRUMAN: ( looking around the deserted park ) Who? There's no one around.
SYLVIA: ( covering his lips once again ) You remember when you were a little boy, you stood up in class and said you wanted to be an explorer like Magellan. And your teacher, Sister Olivia said, "You're too late, Truman. There's nothing left to explore." And all the other kids laughed. And you sat down.
TRUMAN: ( incredulous ) How do you know about that?
SYLVIA: It doesn't matter. You've forgotten about that boy, Truman. You got scared. Just because something happens, doesn't mean you can't take another chance in your life.
TRUMAN: I don't understand.
SYLVIA: ( looking over her shoulder nervously ) There isn't much time. Just listen. Everybody's pretending Truman. Everybody but you. ( pointing to the buildings on the horizon ) Look at that project. You think anybody lives there? It's all for you, Truman. A show. The eyes are everywhere.
TRUMAN: ( protesting ) Eyes? Where?
SYLVIA: ( frustrated, raving ) Everywhere, disguised.Truman, they're going to fill your head with lies. You've got to make yourself deaf, you understand? When you're afraid the most, it means you're on the right track. Trust that boy. Promise me you'll do that? ( scared ) I told you, Truman!
SYLVIA: ( scared ) I told you, Truman!
TRUMAN: ( shocked ) ( to Sylvia ) Get in the car, Lauren!
MAN: ( to Sylvia ) Get in the car, Lauren!
TRUMAN: ( to the Man ) Who are you?!
MAN: I'm her father!
SYLVIA: No he's not! He's just saying that! Does he look anything like me?!
TRUMAN: Shut your mouth! The man backhands Sylvia roughly across the face and bundles her into his car. Truman rushes at the man.
TRUMAN: Leave her alone! The man easily fends Truman off, knocking him to the ground. He slams shut the passenger door of the Plymouth.
MAN: ( to Sylvia ) I told you not to come here anymore! ( to Truman, who is getting to his feet ) Which one are you?
SYLVIA: ( calling out from the car ) Don't listen to him, Truman. Make yourself deaf. Come find me.
MAN: ( to Truman, getting into the car ) Don't bother! We're moving to Australia. New York's done something to her head.
VERONICA: You want me to do it again? I think I could do it better.
TRUMAN: ( coming back to reality ) No.thank you.
TRUMAN: Veronica, what do you know for sure?
VERONICA: For sure? The nuns at my school, they used to say, "The whole of life is faith." Truman regards his companion in a new light. He comes to a stop at the corner where he picked her up.
VERONICA: ( giving Truman an affectionate peck on the cheek ) On the house.
TRUMAN: ( excited ) I've got something to tell you, Sis.
RAQUEL: ( adopting a low, serious tone ) I've got something to tell you too.
TRUMAN: ( unable to contain his news ) I'm going to Australia.
RAQUEL: Mom's real sick. Truman's face falls. As he enters the bedroom where his ill MOTHER lies gazing at the ceiling, we focus on his EXCHANGE STUDENT APPLICATION that he has inadvertently crushed in his THE FLASHBACK SEQUENCE OVER, WE RETURN TO THE PRESENT TIME WITH THE IMAGE NO LONGER APPEARING ON A TELEVISION SCREEN. INT. TRUMAN'S CAR. NIGHT TRUMAN turns into his street but stops several houses short of his own driveway and kills the car's engine. In the light of a streetlamp, Truman opens his briefcase and removes the framed photograph of his wife, MERYL. But he turns his wife's face away from him and opens the clasps on the back of the frame. Removing the backing, he exposes the composite picture of SYLVIA we witnessed in the flashback of his youth, worn and faded by the years. With the frame on his lap, Truman retrieves a handful of paper fragments from his jacket. Noses. He tests the likeness of each one in turn. Unsatisfied that any of the new noses is an improvement, Truman tosses them out of his car window. We watch the paper fragments blowing in the breeze as Truman's car proceeds down the street and into his driveway.
WAITRESS: She was willing to lose him if it meant he could find himself. Never mind.
TRUMAN: ( sneaking a glance at the building directory ) I have an appointment at, er.Diamond They went bust.
TRUMAN: ( riveted by the equally-stunned building occupants ) What're they doing?
TRUMAN: ( not going quietly ) Just tell me what the hell's going on?
TRUMAN: Like fuck! What're they doing?
TRUMAN: You don't tell me, I'll get you investigated!
OFFICIAL: You can't
TRUMAN: ( anticipating his response ) I know.
TRUMAN: You ever been into the AMT Building?
LAWRENCE: ( following Truman's gaze ) Not since they begun reconstruction. ( referring to the file in Truman's hands ) What're you doing with that?
TRUMAN: ( defensive ) I'm going to visit a site.
LAWRENCE: What for?
TRUMAN: Because I never do.
LAWRENCE: ( placing a hand on Truman's arm ) That's why we got adjusters.
TRUMAN: ( looking at Lawrence's hand on his arm ) You got a problem with me going?
LAWRENCE: I got a problem with you not doing your job, Burbank. You already screwed up once this week.
TRUMAN: Let me worry about that. Truman exits with the report. After waiting only a matter of seconds for an elevator, he impatiently enters the stairwell. As soon as he disappears from sight, a grim CHRISTOF emerges from a nearby office, shadowed as always by CHLOE. They approach Lawrence with the familiarity of business associates.
LAWRENCE: 680 West 89th. Christof nods. Chloe opens a flip-phone to make a call.
MOVER 1: Hey, would it kill ya to wait?!
TRUMAN: ( impatiently to driver ) Is there another way? Can't you get around
TRUMAN: ( to the boy ) When was the fire?
BOY: ( shrug ) Week ago.
TRUMAN: How come it's still smoking?
BOY: Started up again. Says here it burnt to the ground.
TRUMAN: ( referring to his claims report ) Says here it burnt to the ground.
BOY: Wishful thinking maybe? The boy is wise well beyond his years. Truman fixes him with a Someone send you to tell me all this?
TRUMAN: Someone send you to tell me all this?
BOY: ( unfazed ) You the one askin' questions.
CHRISTOF: .Everybody stay focused.remember who you are.
CHRISTOF: ( staring at the monitor )
TRUMAN: ( to the jogger with the familiar sneakers ) Small world.
JOGGER 1: ( attempting to sidestep Truman ) Excuse me.
TRUMAN: You don't remember? Two days ago I gave you my meatball sandwich in the park. You were in a wheelchair. Same sneakers. An almost subliminal flashback appears in Truman's head confirming that the JOGGER and the HOMELESS MAN in the wheelchair two days earlier are one and the same.
TRUMAN: ( commenting ironically on his new-found mobility ) A miracle!
JOGGER 2: ( coming to his companion's aid ) Get the hell outta here.
TRUMAN: Marlon. I've gotta talk to you.
MARLON: ( surprised ) Truman! Sorry, I'm up against it today.
TRUMAN: I've fallen over something, Marlon. Something to do with my Dad. I think.
MARLON: ( looking at him for the first time ) Are you okay? You look like shit.
TRUMAN: ( ignoring the inquiries about his health ) It's big, Marlon. You wouldn't believe who's in on it.
MARLON: ( distracted ) In on what?
TRUMAN: There's no point trying to show you, they cover their tracks too well. But I've been going into a lotta strange buildings, seeing a lotta familiar faces, y'know what I mean?
MARLON: ( still engrossed in his own problems ) Something's definitely in the air. My last delivery, a kid got crushed to death. tilting a vending machine. They won't even let me take the rest of the day off.
TRUMAN: Do it, anyway. Marlon scoffs at the suggestion then realizes Truman isn't I'm deadly serious. Marlon. We can't talk here. I'm being followed.
TRUMAN: I'm deadly serious. Marlon. We can't talk here. I'm being followed.
MARLON: ( suddenly concerned ) I don't know. They look just like regular ( producing a notebook from his jacket pocket ) But I've been writing down numbers - license plates, taxi numbers, ID numbers - the same ones keep cropping up over and over.
TRUMAN: I don't know. They look just like regular But I've been writing down numbers - license plates, taxi numbers, ID numbers - the same ones keep cropping up over and over.
MARLON: Is someone leanin' on you, Tru? Cos I got some friends here, they owe me. We can lean back. Is he one of them?
TRUMAN: ( anxious ) I don't know. Could be. One thing's certain. The key is spontoneity. Be unpredictable. They can't stand that. That's why we've got to get outta here. Can you come with me?
MARLON: ( weakening ) Christ, Truman. You're gonna get both our asses fired.
MARLON: Where're we going?
TRUMAN: The beach.
CHRISTOF: ( marveling, excitedly referring to Truman on the monitor ) I can't believe how much he's shoved down. That he sensed the significance at aged seven and clung to it so fiercely.
CHRISTOF: ( gesturing to the clifftop on the monitor pointedly excluding Roman from the conversation ) You remember, Moses, it used to end right there, before the expansion.
ROMAN: ( unable to contain his anxiety any longer ) Christof, the cracks are starting to show.
CHRISTOF: ( reassuring, keeping himself in check ) I'll paper over them.
CHLOE: ( coming to the defense of her mentor ) Truman's had bouts of paranoia before and ( adamant, faintly hysterical ) No, not like this. It's compromised. Becoming unwatchable.
ROMAN: ( adamant, faintly hysterical ) No, not like this. It's compromised. Becoming unwatchable.
CHRISTOF: trouble watching? Perhaps you don't like watching yourself. Roman is stung into silence.
MOSES: ( realizing his colleague is in over his head, including Chloe to save Roman's face ) Why don't you two wait outside? ( instantly more comfortable in the company of a man his own age ) He's jumped the rails, Moses, that's all. We'll get him back on.
CHRISTOF: ( instantly more comfortable in the company of a man his own age ) He's jumped the rails, Moses, that's all. We'll get him back on.
MOSES: You know why they're so nervous. The birth of Truman's child is going to double revenue. For God's sake don't let him upstage you. You've been grooming a successor.
CHRISTOF: He's not ready.
MOSES: ( jaw setting firm, referring to Truman on the monitor ) You can't pull him back in without me. ( more reflective ) He's just acting out of character.
CHRISTOF: ( jaw setting firm, referring to Truman on the monitor ) You can't pull him back in without me. ( more reflective ) He's just acting out of character.
MOSES: What if he's starting to act in character at last? Have you ever considered that?
MARLON: What're we doing here, Truman?
TRUMAN: This is where it started.
MARLON: Things. Things that don't fit. Loose threads. False steps. Slips of the tongue.
TRUMAN: Things. Things that don't fit. Loose threads. False steps. Slips of the tongue.
MARLON: ( irritated ) Make sense, Truman. You going religious on me?
TRUMAN: ( tears of bitterness welling in his eyes ) My father didn't want me to see what was over here. Whatever it was, it's gone now. I never shoulda listened to him that day. I knew it was wrong.
TRUMAN: There were a hundred people on the beach that day. Everybody knew what was going on except me.
MARLON: I don't want to put you down but why would anybody go to all this trouble over you?
TRUMAN: Maybe I've been mistaken for somebody else. A couple of years ago, I tried to get hold of a copy of Time Magazine. The week before an ad said, "Next Week: Truman Burbank and the Lost Generation". Marlon shrugs, unimpressed.
TRUMAN: A guy with the same name as me in Time Magazine. It ain't a common name so I looked out for it. But the day it came out, every newstand was sold out. No library had it. I even wrote off for a back-issue. Never seen a copy to this day. Marlon remains unconvinced.
TRUMAN: Maybe I'm being set up for something. You ever feel like that, Marlon? Like your whole life has been building to something? Marlon looks skeptically at Truman. He hasn't had that feeling.
MARLON: ( becoming testy ) A coincidence. Haven't you ever heard of a coincidence?
TRUMAN: I'm a walking coincidence. I can't count 'em. No something's happening, Marlon. I've got to get to the bottom of it.
MARLON: ( shaking his head in exasperation ) Of what?! Why're you doing this to yourself?
TRUMAN: I'm scared, Marlon. I'm as scared as hell. But I've never felt more alive. It's just like she said.
MARLON: ( suddenly intrigued ) It doesn't matter. She was too beautiful for here.
TRUMAN: It doesn't matter. She was too beautiful for here. Now Marlon is really confused.
TRUMAN: Can you lend me some money? A hundred bucks.
MARLON: All I got on me is the takings from the machines. Why do you need it?
TRUMAN: I'm going away for a while.
MERYL: ( attempting to open him up ) What's going on, Truman? You're not yourself.
TRUMAN: ( vague ) Maybe you just don't know me very well.
MERYL: We could do it right here, like we used to. The program cuts to a commercial break. The commercial is for "Global Travel".
NARRATOR: ( from television ) Travelling Down Under? Global Travel is turning rates to Australia upside down. Round Trip to Sydney only $829. One way, $465. Global Travel at Broadway and 44th. ( abruptly getting up ) Lemme go to the bathroom.
TRUMAN: ( abruptly getting up ) Lemme go to the bathroom.
MERYL: Don't be too long. Truman exits the living room. However, on his way to the bathroom he hesitates at the kitchen table. He surreptitiously lifts the platic-coated plaid tablecloth to reveal numerous bills laid out flat beneath it to keep the stash hidden.
CHRISTOF: What happened overnight?
CHLOE: He couldn't do it, even on the sofa.
CHRISTOF: ( smiling to himself ) God, that thing of his must be psychic. ( matter-of-fact ) He didn't masturbate?
CHLOE: Not for the last two inonths. Chloe exits and Christof climbs out of bed.
MERYL: ( rubbing ointment into her wrists ) Aren't you gonna be late?
TRUMAN: I got a call in the area. What's the case? Anything interesting?
MERYL: ( dispassionate ) Rape on the subway.
MERYL: They're guilty as hell but they'll walk. No witnesses. Her word against theirs. Maybe we could meet for lunch today. Meryl gives him an affectionate kiss and exits the back door. Truman waits for the sound of Meryl's car to disappear down the road and exits himself.
SECURITY GUARD: You a witness?
TRUMAN: Er, yes. No, no I'm not.
SECURITY GUARD: Closed session. Before the guard can move him on. Truman sneaks a look at proceedings through the courtroom door window. He recognizes the two YOUTHS sitting at the defendent's table. A PROSECUTOR is on his feet, addressing the JURY. MERYL is working attentively at her stenotype machine, her fingers rapidly pressing the keys. However, Truman notices a glaring omission. There is no paper emerging from Meryl's machine. The roll of paper tape sits on the floor beside her chair leg.
TRUMAN: I wanna book a flight to Australia.
AGENT: Where exactly?
TRUMAN: ( believing she is being deliberately obtuse ) ( a trace of condescension ) Where in Australia? What city?
AGENT: ( a trace of condescension ) Where in Australia? What city?
TRUMAN: Sorry, Sydney.
AGENT: ( entering the destination in her computer ) For how many?
TRUMAN: ( finding the question suspicious ) When do you want to leave, remembering, of course, that you do lose a day on the way there?
AGENT: When do you want to leave, remembering, of course, that you do lose a day on the way there?
TRUMAN: ( more urgent than he intended ) ( reading off her computer screen ) I'm sorry. I don't have anything for a ( suspicious ) A week.
AGENT: ( reading off her computer screen ) I'm sorry. I don't have anything for a ( suspicious ) A week.
TRUMAN: ( suspicious ) A week.
AGENT: ( patiently explaining ) It's the busy season.
TRUMAN: ( paranoia showing ) You sure you're not trying to keep me here? You are a travel agent, aren't you? Your job is to help people travel, not keep 'em where they are. ( pointing to the agent's name tag, "DORIS - Travel Agent" ) Or maybe you're a different kind of agent, Doris?
AGENT: ( showing amazing restraint ) I do have a fabulous rate on a cruise ship departing for Australia tomorrow. But you wouldn't want to do that.
TRUMAN: Why wouldn't I?
AGENT: I thought you were in a hurry.
TRUMAN: ( calming down ) That's right.
AGENT: You want to book the flight? Truman pulls out a wad of money from his pocket and several rolls of quarters from Marlon's vending machines. The agent looks askance at the pile of cash.
TRUMAN: You were expecting me, weren't you? The travel agent ignores the question and prints the ticket.
AGENT: It's non-refundable.
PROD. MANAGER: ( unable to conceal his pride )
CHRISTOF: ( staring out at the pleasure craft littering the harbor ) Can we contain him long enough?
PROD. MANAGER: I think so. Christof looks skyward at the cottonwool clouds above the He flies at night. Thick cloud cover to disorient him. Hopefully we'll knock him out with complimentary cocktails, pull the shades down during the movies. He'll never know. Christof gives another grudging nod of approval. The Production Manager is beckoned by a group of CONSTRUCTION WORKERS who are putting the finishing touches to a corner of the Opera House. CHLOE drifts to Christof's side, a Watchman TV in her hand.
PROD. MANAGER: ( anticipating his next question ) He flies at night. Thick cloud cover to disorient him. Hopefully we'll knock him out with complimentary cocktails, pull the shades down during the movies. He'll never know.
CHLOE: ( referring to the surrounding scene ) Why go to all the trouble?
CHRISTOF: He believes she has the answer.
CHLOE: Why not just tell him she's dead?
CHRISTOF: It's too late for that. That won't satisfy him. He's going to have to find out for himself. See it with his own eyes. Right now he needs something genuine. Even if we have to fake it.
TRUMAN: ( to agent, picking up a dictionary ) "Yours truly." You spell "truly" "l.y" or "e.l.y"?
INSURANCE AGENT: I always write "Yours Truman finds the appropriate page in the dictionary and gazes at the entry for a long moment. He looks up, staring into the middle distance. His eyes widen as something clicks in his mind. Suddenly LAWRENCE snatches the dictionary from his hand.
LAWRENCE: Where the hell have you been, Burbank? What the hell's going on?
TRUMAN: That's what The AGENTS in the other cubicles turn in their direction.
TRUMAN: I was just about to resign. Isn't that a laugh? I just realized there's nothing to resign from, is there?
LAWRENCE: Listen, don't bother with the resignation. Just get the fuck outta here.
TRUMAN: ( addressing the whole office ) Why're you all pretending? Huh? ( gesturing to a computer terminal ) What is this a front for? Why aren't I in on the joke? Was I away that day?!
TRUMAN: ( hysterical ) I'm talking to you! Who am I?!
LAWRENCE: ( taken aback by the sudden violent act ) You better get outta here or I'm calling Security.
TRUMAN: ( mimicking ) "Security! I'm calling Security".
TRUMAN: You don't believe a single word you're saying! None of you do! You hear me?! We see Truman's manic face from the sprinkler head's POV. Truman stomps off down the corridor, other Insurance Agents giving him a wide berth. He shoves computers, desk lamps and pot holders off desks as he goes.
SIMEON: ( talking quietly into a slim headset ) .and back to the close-up. ( to a hard-bitten Operator, staring at the dictionary ) Do you think he sees the entry?
CHLOE: ( to a hard-bitten Operator, staring at the dictionary ) Do you think he sees the entry?
OPERATOR: Hard to tell.
CHRISTOF: ( sarcastic ) Why don't we ask him?
CHLOE: ( snapping back, referring to the book ) I don't know how it got there! ( to Operator ) genuinely, etc. 2. in fact; really.
TRUMAN: ( to the Mother, motioning to the sidewalk ) Say my name or I'll smash its head open.
TRUMAN: ( vehement ) Say my name!
YOUNG MOTHER: ( composing herself, reaching out for her child ) Please, give him to me.
TRUMAN: ( screaming above the baby's cries ) Say my name! You know my name! Say it!
YOUNG MOTHER: ( bewildered ) I don't know you.
TRUMAN: ( hysterical ) I mean it! I'm ready to do it! What's my name?!!
TRUMAN: ( entreating the young woman, tears in his eyes ) This is your last chance!
TRUMAN: ( his entire body shaking )
YOUNG MOTHER: ( clutching the baby to her breast, without thinking ) Thank you, Truman.
TRUMAN: ( referring to a distant car on the expressway ) See that car way down there? I bet it's a Suburu station wagon.
TRUMAN: I predict the next four cars will be a white Honda Civic, a blue and white Dodge Dart with the front hubcap missing, a Volkswagon Beetle with a dented fender and a motorcycle. Meryl doesn't wish to participate in the game and makes for the house. Truman holds her arm, forcing her to watch. He turns to check his prediction. A convoy of cars approaches.
TRUMAN: There's the Honda.the Dodge.here comes the dented Beetle. Meryl's attention wavers. Truman tightens his grip.
TRUMAN: Look, damn you! Following the VW is a school bus.
MERYL: ( mocking ) Where's the motorcycle?
TRUMAN: ( yelling after her ) Don't you want to know how I did that? Maybe you already know. Is that it?
MERYL: Where have you been? I've been calling you all day.
TRUMAN: Have you been concerned, Meryl? Nice name. "Meryl". I always liked it.
MERYL: ( matching his sarcasm ) Nice of you to say so after eight years.
TRUMAN: Actress's name, isn't it? What's your real name?
MERYL: ( rolling her eyes ) Oh, God. What's got into you?
TRUMAN: Take a break. Meryl I know.
MERYL: I invited Marlon and Rita for a barbeque Sunday. I thought I'd make my potato salad. Remind me.
TRUMAN: ( irritated ) Drop it, I said. It's over.
MERYL: ( rambling on ) .we need more charcoal.
TRUMAN: Shut up!
MERYL: I'm gonna take a shower.
TRUMAN: ( catching her wrist ) No. We're going for a drive.
MERYL: Despite her protests, Truman drags Meryl out the back door and towards his car.
TRUMAN: ( as he shoves her into the Oldsmobile ) For years I've been saying I want to go some place, well now I'm ready to go. Let's just jump in the car and go.
TRUMAN: ( as they speed down the suburban street ) I thought maybe, Atlantic City.
MERYL: ( trying to mask her anxiety ) You hate gambling.
TRUMAN: That's right. I do, don't I?
MERYL: So why do you wanna go?
TRUMAN: Cos I never have. That's why you go places, isn't it? Cos you're curious. I haven't been curious since I was seven years old, y'know that? Back then you'd have to nail me to the floor to keep me in one place.
CHRISTOF: How long to take Atlantic City out of We could be up and running.three hours maybe.
SIMEON: We could be up and running.three hours maybe.
CHRISTOF: Give me a number five gridlock on the Jersey Turnpike.
TRUMAN: ( a manic edge to his voice ) So much traffic, this time of day. Does that strike you as peculiar?
TRUMAN: ( sneering at the sight of the motorists ) Look at them. You believe they're fighting? I don't believe it. ( shouting out the window to the motorists ) Why don't you slug him, really make it authentic?
TRUMAN: ( to Meryl, marveling ) Blocked at every turn. Beautifully synchronized, don't you agree?
MERYL: ( incredulous ) You blaming me for the traffic?
TRUMAN: You've never been on this road before. You don't know what it's like.
MERYL: You've never been on this road before. You don't know what it's like.
TRUMAN: ( manic ) That's true. We could be stuck here for hours. Could be like this all the way to Atlantic City.
MERYL: What the hell are you doing?
TRUMAN: You're right. Let's go back. I'm sorry. I don't know what got into me. Truman rejoins the New Jersey Turnpike, heading back towards Queens, the roadway now relatively free of traffic.
MERYL: Would you please slow down, Truman? Truman floors the Oldsmobile. The car flies past the exit for Route 276. He continues along the Jersey Turnpike.
MERYL: Truman, that was the turnoff!
TRUMAN: I've changed my mind again. What's Maine like this time of year?! I've never been to Or let's just see where the road takes us.
MERYL: ( pleading ) Let me out, Truman. You're not right in the head. You wanna destroy yourself, you do it on your own!
TRUMAN: ( eerily calm ) I think I'd like a little company.
CHRISTOF: ( to Simeon ) What the hell is wrong with the "carousel"? Keep them together.
SIMEON: ( agitated ) They're rusty. We can't keep up. ( rueful aside ) We don't know where he's going any more.
CHLOE: Oncoming is very thin.
TRUMAN: ( to the anxious Meryl at his side ) Look down there, Meryl!.No cars! I don't run into traffic. The traffic follows me around. ( excited by his discovery ) We're in a moving pack, don't you see?
CHRISTOF: ( enthusing ) He's so close! It's tantilizing!
CHLOE: You want to pull him over?
CHRISTOF: No police. Not yet. We shadow him. We don't want him to panic.
CHLOE: He's trying to outrun the traffic.
CHRISTOF: He's trying to outrun the on this route. Are we ready? Simeon nods. Executives, MOSES and ROMAN have entered the control room. They hover nervously in the background.
TRUMAN: ( to Meryl ) It's hard to go places, isn't it?
MERYL: There's been an accident, Truman. We have to go back.
TRUMAN: No. There's no accident. It'S just more stalling. Truman slows beside a POLICE OFFICER.
TRUMAN: What's going on?
OFFICER: ( grim-faced, indicating the nearby Indian Point nuclear power plant ) Leak at the plant. They had to shut her down.
TRUMAN: Is there any way around?
OFFICER: The whole area's being evacuated. A precaution. Truman falls in line behind the cars making a U-turn when, all of a sudden, he guns his car and swerves past the barricade.
MERYL: Truman!! Come back!! Truman bursts past the alien-looking HAZARDOUS WASTE WORKERS in their protective suits carrying detection instruments. The workers give chase in their cumbersome suits, trying to cut off his path to the power plant. As he crests a slight rise beyond the plant, he is finally tackled to the ground. However, peering through the long grass, Truman is able to make out the lights of a cityscape in the distance.
CHRISTOF: Did he see it?
CHLOE: I don't think so. The reason for Christof's concern becomes all too apparent as the helicopter passes over the power plant, where the struggling TRUMAN is being escorted away. We see an aerial shot from the helicopter as it emerges directly above the Sydney skyline.
MERYL: Let me get you some help, Truman. You're not well.
TRUMAN: ( ignoring her tears and medical advice ) Why do you want to have a child with me? You can't stand me.
MERYL: That's not true.
TRUMAN: ( suddenly angry ) Don't lie to me!
TRUMAN: ( frightened but remaining poised ) I thought you knew everything. What could I tell you?
MERYL: ( frightened but remaining poised ) I thought you knew everything. What could I tell you?
TRUMAN: ( backing her up against the kitchen bench ) You're part of this, aren't you?! Truman, you're scaring me!
MERYL: Truman, you're scaring me! Truman looks in her eyes and, with surprising swiftness, grabs her wrist and disarms her.
TRUMAN: No, you're scaring Truman grabs Meryl by the hair and turns the knife on her. While pressing the blade to Meryl's throat, Truman starts to march her around the room, talking to the walls, light fixtures, a mirror, doorknob, framed picture, blank television.
TRUMAN: Stop this now or I kill your leading lady. I know you can hear me.
ROMAN: ( entreating Christof ) Get somebody in there!
CHRISTOF: ( quiet but firm ) ( siding with the executive, showing his true colors ) She's in trouble! We've got to help her!
SIMEON: ( siding with the executive, showing his true colors ) She's in trouble! We've got to help her!
MERYL: ( in reply to the voice in her head, half-strangled due to the pressure of the knife ) Do something.
TRUMAN: ( wild-eyed ) Who are you talking to?!
MERYL: ( incredulous ) You're the one talking to the walls!
TRUMAN: No. You said, "Do something." Who were you talking to? I swear I'll kill you, if you don't tell me. Meryl takes the chance to spin out of his grasp and dashes to the bedroom but before she can barricade the door, Truman forces his way inside. They both tumble onto the waterbed causing it to rock back and forth. Gripping Meryl's hair, Truman throws aside the bed covers.
TRUMAN: ( distraught, referring to the bed ) How could you buy this damn thing when you know he drowned in front of me?!
TRUMAN: You have any idea what it's like to drown? Truman drops the knife and forces Meryl's head into the gaping hole in the bed, submerging her head in the tepid water. She thrashes her arms wildly trying to free herself. Truman reluctantly jerks her head back out of the water.
MERYL: ( gasping for air ) Truman, stop it! ( to the ceiling ) Don't let him do it!
TRUMAN: ( to a light fixture, threatening ) I'll kill her!
TRUMAN: ( sneering at Meryl ) Right on time. Cops must be telepathic.
TRUMAN: ( wincing in pain ) ( shouting through the closed door ) Stay where you are or I'll kill her!
TRUMAN: ( shouting through the closed door ) Stay where you are or I'll kill her!
MERYL: ( distraught, dropping character, forgetting herself ) They were going to let him kill me!
TRUMAN: People know who I am, my every move, complete strangers know my name. Even when there's no one around, I feel the eyes on me.
MARLON: ( reluctant admission ) I was in the bank today. The Federal on Lewis. A clerk was talking about somebody named Truman messing with her baby. Is that the stranger you're talking about?
TRUMAN: ( half to himself, refusing to accept it ) No. No. I've never seen her before. ( registering Marlon's skepticism ) I know you already think I'm going out of my mind but I genuinely believe the world revolves around me somehow. Everybody seems to be in on it.
MARLON: It's a lot of world for one man. You sure that's not wishful thinking, you wishing you'd made something more of yourself? Christ, Truman, who hasn't sat on the John and had an imaginary interview with Barbara Walters? Who hasn't wanted to be somebody?
TRUMAN: That's just it. I think I
MARLON: ( sympathetizing ) I used to dream all my friends and family got together in a hotel room, thinking of ways to fuck me up.
TRUMAN: Sometimes I think it's in my head, sometimes I think it's for real. Marlon looks around as if drawing inspiration from somewhere in the night.
MARLON: Tru, we've known each other since before we could get a hard-on. Truman half-smiles at the ribald remark.
MARLON: The only way we ever made it through high school was cheating off each other's test papers. Jesus, they were identical. I always liked that, because whatever the answer was, we was right together and we was wrong together. Truman nods fondly at the memory.
MARLON: The only night either of us ever spent in jail, we spent together and I wet myself but you never told anyone. I was best man at your wedding and my brother was best man at my wedding and you didn't talk to me for a month over that and I didn't blame you because you've been more of a brother to me than he's ever been. And I never shoulda let my Goddam father talk me into that. Truman is slowly coming around. Marlon's speech from the heart soothing away his pain.
MARLON: I know things haven't worked out for either of us like we used to sit up on Freemont Street all night and dream they would. We all let opportunities pass us by, none of us asks for the dance as often as we should. I know that feeling when it's like everything's slipping away and you don't want to believe it so you look for answers someplace else. But, well, the point is, I would gladly step in front of traffic for you. Truman grins a melancholy grin, nearly all the way back. We see a close up of Marlon's ear. From inside, unheard by Truman, CHRISTOF dictates Marlon's heartfelt speech.
CHRISTOF: ( hushed tones ) .and the last thing I'd ever do is lie to you.
MARLON: ( staring into Truman's eyes, repeating the words in his ear ) And the last thing I'd ever do is lie to you. ( pause ) Think about it, Truman, if everybody's in on it, I'd have to be in on it too. I'm not in on it cos there is no it.
MARLON: ( leaving his head close to Christof ) I can't thank you enough. I don't know what happened. He was so close. It threw me. I'm indebted.
INTERVIEWER: ( to camera ) Welcome to week seventeen hundred and sixty eight of "Truman" and there can scarcely have been a more momentous week in the show's history. I'm your host, Michael Conners, and this is a special edition of "Tru Talk", the forum where we discuss and analyze recent events with the show's award-winning creator and producer, Christof. ( referring to the image of Truman in the background ) I remind viewers that as this is a living history, it is our practise to keep the image of Truman on screen at all times. ( turning to Christof ) Thank you.
CHRISTOF: Thank you.
INTERVIEWER: Before we start taking calls, the huge surge in ratings over the last few days, how do you hope to sustain that audience now that Truman appears to have reconciled himself, returned to "normal"?
CHRISTOF: Ratings have never been our primary goal. I imagine we'll lose those voycurs only interested in witnessing Truman's latest torment. However I'm certain our core audience will remain loyal.
INTERVIEWER: But recent events have been raise the perennial question. What keeps us watching one man twenty-four hours a day - eating, sleeping, working, sitting for hours in It has to be the reality. During this segment, we cut to a cross-section of VIEWERS - the NIGHTWATCHMEN, the two OLD WOMEN on their sofa, the BARMAN and the WAITRESS - listening to Christof's theories on their viewing habits.
CHRISTOF: It has to be the reality. During this segment, we cut to a cross-section of VIEWERS - the NIGHTWATCHMEN, the two OLD WOMEN on their sofa, the BARMAN and the WAITRESS - listening to Christof's theories on their viewing habits.
CHRISTOF: We've become increasingly frustrated watching actors give us phony emotions, bored with pyrotechnics and special effects. While the world he inhabits is counterfeit, there's nothing fake about Truman himself. No scripts. no cue cards. It's not always Shakespeare but it's genuine. That's how he can support an entire channel.
INTERVIEWER: A window onto the human condition?
CHRISTOF: I prefer to think of it as a does he give us a glimpse of the truth, he gives us a glimpse of ourselves.
INTERVIEWER: But how do you account for the popularity of those eight hours a day when Truman sleeps?
CHRISTOF: We find many viewers leave him on all night for comfort. Haven't you ever watched your child or your lover sleep?
INTERVIEWER: Let's go to some of those viewers' calls. The Interviewer presses a blinking illuminated button on his desk's high-tech phone terminal.
INTERVIEWER: ( into speaker phone ) Charlotte, North Carolina, for Christof.
INTERVIEWER: You're on, caller. Go ahead.
CHRISTOF: Thank you.
CHRISTOF: I don't believe so. Not now. He tested his world, as we all do at certain times, and eventually it passed the test. You have to understand, he is a man made-for-TV, the world he occupies his only frame of reference. No, for him to come even this close to the truth is a remarkable testament to his The Interviewer presses another line on his terminal.
INTERVIEWER: Sacramento, California, you're on "Tru Talk".
CHRISTOF: Working on "Truman" has always been a huge commitment for an actor, not just in terms of separation from friends and family, but since Truman essentially drives the plot, it's a never-ending improvisation. Recent events have raised the pressure but also the Of course Truman has always been very much in on As with our own lives, the only people he can't cast are his family. Otherwise he has final approval, able to elevate an extra into a lead role as was the case with his only real friend, Marlon, or alternatively relegate a star to a bit Istanbul, Turkey, you're on with world-renowned videographer, Christof.
INTERVIEWER: ( cutting off the call ) Of course Truman has always been very much in on As with our own lives, the only people he can't cast are his family. Otherwise he has final approval, able to elevate an extra into a lead role as was the case with his only real friend, Marlon, or alternatively relegate a star to a bit ( pressing another line ) Istanbul, Turkey, you're on with world-renowned videographer, Christof.
CHRISTOF: As with our own lives, the only people he can't cast are his family. Otherwise he has final approval, able to elevate an extra into a lead role as was the case with his only real friend, Marlon, or alternatively relegate a star to a bit Istanbul, Turkey, you're on with world-renowned videographer, Christof.
INTERVIEWER: ( pressing another line ) Istanbul, Turkey, you're on with world-renowned videographer, Christof.
CHRISTOF: Who can?
CHRISTOF: ( trace of pride ) In his entire life, forty-two minutes. A technical fault in 1978 accounts for most of that time. The remainder generally results from blindspots, in the early days, when Truman would stray out of range of our cameras.
INTERVIEWER: The Hague for Christof.The Hague?.lost them. Amagansett, Long Island, you're on "Tru Talk".
CHRISTOF: ( sensing the thinly disguised resentinent in the caller's voice ) I believe that to be so. I often feel the only difference between Truman's life and our own is that his is being more thoroughly documented. We all play our allotted roles
CHRISTOF: ( rising to the challenge ) He can leave at any time. If his was more than just a vague ambition, if he were absolutely determined to discover the truth, there's no way we could prevent him. I think what really distresses you, caller, is that ultimately he prefers the comfort of his "cell"
CHRISTOF: ( a thought occurring, looking directly into camera ) Do I know you, caller? Your voice sounds familiar.
INTERVIEWER: ( from television ) Recording a human life from birth to death, that's still the intention? You still believe Truman has more to contribute?
CHRISTOF: ( still reflecting on the last call ) More than ever. By unwittingly allowing us to witness his struggles, he's constantly forcing us to evaluate our own lives. He gives us hope.
INTERVIEWER: Let's take another call. London, England you're on "Tru Talk".
CHLOE: ( not taking her eyes from screen ) He was premature, wasn't he?
CHRISTOF: Only by two weeks.
CHLOE: Curious even then? Like he couldn't wait to get started?
CHRISTOF: ( feeling out where the conversation is headed ) His eagerness to leave his mother's womb also meant he was the one selected.
CHLOE: What was it like, the first show?
CHRISTOF: The ultimate live television. In competition with five other unwanted pregnancies - the casting of a show determined by an air date - he was the one who arrived on cue.
CHLOE: Is it true what you said.on the show tonight? About letting him go if he wanted it badly enough. Would you really do that? Christof stares at his assistant, weighing her loyalty.
CHRISTOF: It won't come to that.
CHRISTOF: I hope we've got fresh extras.
CHLOE: ( consulting a clipboard ) The rotation was made this morning.
CHRISTOF: ( staring at a monitor, irritated ) I don't like the couple with the baby. They'd never be together.
CHRISTOF: Who's doing wardrobe? I keep seeing the same wardrobe.
CHRISTOF: I bet he doesn't stop at the newstand. As predicted, Truman walks by, barely glancing at a newspaper's banner headline, "NUCLEAR POWER PLANT REOPENED". Christof scans the shot options available to him on the video wall.
CHRISTOF: .Bodycam Two. The large On-Air Monitor cuts to Truman, via the point-of-view of an approaching PEDESTRIAN. For an instant, the unaware Truman looks directly into the lens of the disguised camera.
CHRISTOF: .streetlight eight. The monitor cuts to an overhead shot from a streetlamp. The camera continues to follow Truman's progress.
CHRISTOF: .ready, Car-Cam One. Go to One. TRUMAN enters his office building as a taxi cruises by.
CHRISTOF: .and cut to interior. Truman is immediately picked up by a hidden camera inside the building where he exchanges a half-hearted greeting with an ancient SECURITY GUARD.
CHRISTOF: The camera widens the angle.
CHRISTOF: .and action, Vivien. Looks just like Truman's mother at that age. VIVIEN, an insurance adjuster approaches the elevator button at the same time as Truman. However she reaches for it after Truman has already turned his back.
CHRISTOF: ( incensed ) Damn, she missed her mark! ( impatiently to Simeon ) Why do we bother with walk-throughs if nobody pays attention? Give me a two-shot of Truman and Vivien.go to the master .hold the elevators. ( mustering patience, into microphone ) Vivien, press the elevator button again .and make sure you catch his eye this time.
CHRISTOF: Good! Perfect! Cut to the interior. The monitor cuts to the inside of the elevator, rapidly filling with co-workers.
CHRISTOF: .and Lawrence. Just as the doors are about to close, LAWRENCE oozes in. He gives Truman a smug smile.
CHRISTOF: .nice look, Lawrence.and, Vivien. The elevator doors open and Vivien exits with two co-workers.
LAWRENCE: ( admiring aside to the remaining fellow-males in the elevator ) I wouldn't kick her out of bed.
CHRISTOF: ( to the meeting, referring to Meryl by her real name ) Regrettably, I have to inform you that Hannah has chosen not to renew her contract.
CHRISTOF: I'm sure we can all respect her reasons. Meryl receives a sympathetic squeeze of the hand from her co- star Marlon, now out of wardrobe, wearing an Armani suit.
CHRISTOF: Her separation from Truman will be orchestrated over the summer. However, I'm pleased to announce that television's first on-air conception will still take place. You witnessed the initial contact this morning. You all know Claudia from her work in theatre. Thankfully, Truman doesn't. The rest of the cast nod politely in Vivien's direction.
CHRISTOF: ( referring to the bound documents CHLOE passes to each cast member ) This is a copy of Claudia's back story. Her character's name will be Vivien. She's the new adjuster at the office.
CHRISTOF: We intend to entice Truman into the affair as soon as possible. Claudia will make her advance at the seminar Truman's attending next week. Details are in your schedules. I'm sure you'll all make Claudia Question is, will Truman make her welcome? The cast snickers.
MARLON: ( injecting a note of levity, more sophisticated than the character he plays ) Question is, will Truman make her welcome?
CHRISTOF: ( immediately back to business ) I don't have to tell you, how critical the next few weeks will be. This takes us into the next generation. When Truman's child is born, the network will be switching to a two-channel format to chronicle both lives.
VIVIEN: What happens when Truman and the baby are both on camera together?
CHRISTOF: There will simply be duplicate coverage.
VIVIEN: ( mischievous ) Let's just hope we don't have twins.
CHLOE: ( uncharacteristically flippant ) When Truman dies do we go back to the single channel?
BARMAN: What's he doing in
PATRON: Meryl's at her mom's. Maybe he's got an urge. On screen, Truman looks through some X-Rated video titles.
WAITRESS: ( referring to Truman's overcoat ) What's with the coat?
BARMAN: ( smirking at the irony ) Maybe he doesn't wanna be recognized.
PATRON: ( remarking on Truman's clumsiness )
BARMAN: ( exasperated ) Oh God, he never bought nothing.
WOMAN: Give him a break. It's taken him thirty- four years to get the nerve to go in there.
SIMEON: .Ready two. Go to two. Operator, eating a doughnut, presses one of the illuminated buttons on the panel and the camera angle changes to a close shot of Truman's covered head. The camera stays on the blanketed head for a long moment.
SIMEON: And back to the medium. Another button is pressed and the angle changes. A trace of frustration is evident in the control room. Recording a sleeping subject is unrewarding enough without also having to contend with Truman's recently aquired camera-shyness.
SIMEON: .and wide.
OPERATOR: ( aside to Simeon ) Could we have picked a bigger loser if we tried?
SIMEON: ( shrugs ) That loser pays our salary.
OPERATOR: He's given up on himself again.
SIMEON: Who cares? Makes life easier for us. He is what he is. At the far end of the great room, one of the large double doors opens and CHRISTOF enters, as always accompanied by CHLOE, carrying a leather-bound folder. Simeon and the Operators subtely straighten in their chairs. Christof pretends not to notice. He is staring intently at the On-Air monitor.
CHRISTOF: When did he start sleeping like that?
SIMEON: About the time Meryl left.
CHRISTOF: Is that the best shot we can get?
SIMEON: What's to see? Christof watches Truman, a trace of concern in his eyes.
CHRISTOF: ( referring to the debris in Truman's bedroom ) What happened to the room?
SIMEON: He started to reorganize. I was going to call you. But half-way through, he gave up and fell asleep. Apparently satisfied, Christof turns to an operator.
CHRISTOF: I want to check the set-ups for tomorrow's insurance convention. Reading off the notes in Chloe's folder, the operator punches up a batch of camera angles on smaller preview monitors. They show a generic-looking Marriott Hotel, devoid of actors. A banner in reception reads, "WELCOME AMERICAN LIFE & ACCIDENT". The Operator looks to Christof for approval and realizes his producer's attention has wandered. Christof is staring at the sleeping figure of Truman on the On-Air monitor.
CHRISTOF: Give me a shot from his wedding band.
SIMEON: ( pointing out the ring on Truman's bedside table ) He took it off.
CHRISTOF: ( a trace of concern ) Why is he so still? He's too still.
CHRISTOF: Isolate the audio in the cans and amplify. An operator pushes up an audio fader on the panel. Christof and his colleagues listen to Truman's steady breathing in their headphones. Simeon and the Operators nod, reassured that nothing is amiss. Christof is not so easily convinced.
CHRISTOF: Give me a preview. An ECU on his torso. A camera hidden in the room's bedside lamp zooms in to Truman's prone outline.while the breathing remains steady, the body does not rise and fall.
CHRISTOF: ( anxious, barking a command to Chloe ) Phone him.
CHRI STOF: ( anticipating Chloe's question ) Wrong number.
CHRISTOF: ( a trace of panic ) He didn't drink tonight? No pills? Hang up!
CHRISTOF: Hang up! Chloe promptly cuts the connection and Truman's phone ceases to ring.
CHRISTOF: Get Marlon over there.
CHLOE: Under what pretext?
CHRISTOF: ( letting his anxiety show ) Any fucking pretext!
MARLON: Frustrated, Marlon runs to the bedroom and thumps on the window. He can see the shape of Truman lying on the bed but his shouts fail to rouse him. Marlon picks up one of Meryl's carefully nurtured flower pots from beneath the bedroom window.
MARLON: ( shouting a warning ) I'm comin' in, Tru!
CHRISTOF: ( quiet but firm ) Cut transmission.
CHRISTOF: ( enraged ) I said, "Cut"!
CHRISTOF: There. Freeze.Zoom into the chair. Simeon types the appropriate command.
CHRISTOF: On the blown-up screen, between a cardboard box and a chair leg, it is barely possible to make out Truman's hand as he crawls commando-style from his bedroom, his inflatable replacement already positioned in the bed.
CHRISTOF: ( referring to the debris ) He wasn't making a mess. He was engineering a blind spot.
CHLOE: How does he know where the cameras are?
CHRI STOF: I don't know. All I know is we've been filming a blow-up doll for the last three hours. Simeon feels the hostility.
SIMEON: ( hanging up the phone ) We've declared a curfew. Only the extras required for the search are on the set. Everyone else is at first positions.
CHRISTOF: All prop cars accounted for?
SIMEON: He has to be on foot. He has the world's most recognizable face. He can't disappear. All heads turn to CHLOE as she enters the grand control room with a status report.
CHLOE: The sponsors are threatening to pull the plug if we don't make a statement within the next hour. The media is in a feeding frenzy. The phone lines are jammed. Every network has a pirated shot of Harlon and the dummy.
POLICE OFFICER: Any sign of him?
TRUMAN: ( deliberately gravelling his voice ) Not yet.
POLICE OFFICER: ( to Truman, as the car pulls away ) Take it easy.
MOSES: ( to Christof who is still studying the faces in a row of SEARCHERS ) Rumors are circulating he's dead.
ROMAN: ( pacing nervously ) The sponsors are threatening to rip up their contracts.
CHRISTOF: ( unconcerned, referring to the static "STAND BY" graphic, now accompanied by soothing classical music ) Why? We're getting higher ratings for that graphic than any time in the series.
CHLOE: ( referring to the empty streets ) When we flush him out how do we explain this?
CHRISTOF: ( deadpan ) We tell him the truth.
CHRISTOF: ( joking darkly ) We're making a movie.
SIMEON: ( hopeful ) We'll get him on this next sweep.
CHRISTOF: What have we missed?
SIMEON: It's just a matter of time.
CHRISTOF: No. We've missed something. Christof turns his back on the screens. Over his shoulder, we see a monitor displaying a view of the harbor.
SYLVIA: ( from monitor ) You remember when you were a little boy.
SYLVIA: .Trust that boy. Christof jabs the "PAUSE" button, freezing the picture. He recites the words to himself.
CHRISTOF: Trust that boy. We're not watching the sea.
SIMEON: ( confused ) Why would we?
CHRISTOF: Sweep the harbor.
SIMEON: That's him!
CHRISTOF: Resume transmission. Simeon punches a button and the image of the sailing ship is instantly transferred to the large On-Air monitor.
CHRISTOF: ( staring intently at the On-Air monitor ) What do we have on that boat?
CHOPPER PILOT: ( over P.A. ) Alter course immediately. You are entering a restricted area.
TRUMAN: Fuck you!
TRUMAN: Get the hell away! It's my life!
CHRISTOF: ( into microphone to pilot, eerily composed ) Fire a warning.
SIMEON: ( shocked at the near miss ) Jesus! God! Is he out of his mind?
CHRISTOF: ( composed, into microphone to pilot ) Pull back.
CHRISTOF: How long will another chopper take?
SIMEON: By the time we pick up the pilots,
CHRISTOF: We have to stop him for his own good. Turn him back with the elements.
SIMEON: ( hesitant ) There's no rescue boat in the area. He won't know what to do.
MOSES: ( trying to appeal to Christof's sense of reason ) For God's sake, Chris. The whole world is watching. We can't kill him in front of a live audience.
CHRISTOF: He was Don't worry, he's not willing to risk his life for the truth. His doubts will turn him back. Simeon reluctantly turns to a panel of controls on the desk marked "WAVE", "WIND" and "RAIN". After typing in a command, he winds the controls towards their maximum settings.
CHRISTOF: Kill the lights. Chloe searches Christof's face, trying to find the man in whom she has believed for so long.
TRUMAN: ( shouting above the storm ) I'm coming to find you Sylvia! I'm making myself deaf! ( screaming up to the sky ) You're going to have to kill me! Come on!
SIMEON: ( agitated ) It's not working. He can sail that thing!
ROMAN: How can he sail?! He's in insurance! He hasn't set foot on a boat since he was seven!
MOSES: ( to Christof ) On the behalf of the studio, I demand you cease transmission.
CHRISTOF: ( defiant, to Operators ) Keep running! ( to Moses ) I take full responsibility. ( to Operator in front of radar-style screen ) How close?
OPERATOR: Very close.
CHRISTOF: Capsize him! Tip him over!
CHLOE: ( unable to contain herself any longer, entreating him ) You can't! He's tied himself to the wheel. He'll drown!
SIMEON: ( staring at Truman on the monitor, becoming affected by his display of courage ) He doesn't care.
CHLOE: ( to Christof, lunging for the control panel ) You lied, you hypocrite! The only way he can leave, is dead!
CHRISTOF: ( enraged ) Do it! ( staring at the On-Air monitor, numb ) It's too late.
SIMEON: ( staring at the On-Air monitor, numb ) It's too late.
OPERATOR: Self-conscious, he takes his seat again almost immediately. His COLLEAGUES are transfixed by the live on-air monitor continuing to play its only available shot, the open door in the sky - Truman out of view.
GUIDE: .the soundstage roof houses over eight hundred thousand lights of varying intensities to faithfully recreate the constellations. However, the passengers are paying less attention than usual. They stare, perplexed, at the television monitor above the Guide's head, continuing to play the show's only available shot of the open door in the sky.
TRUMAN: ( to the shocked passengers ) Nobody move! ( to the guide ) ( to the guide, gesturing to the microphone ) Keep talking. Say whatever you say!
TRUMAN: ( to the guide, gesturing to the microphone ) Keep talking. Say whatever you say!
GUIDE: Er,.the ocean tank contains over six hundred and fifty million gallons of man-made salt water, temperature-controlled.
TRUMAN: ( to TOURIST, camcorder around his neck ) Act normal! Keep filming!
CHILD: Please, Mister Truman. On the child's T-shirt, a large photograph of Truman's face.
CHRISTOF: ( into the phone ) What do you mean he's not there? We can't have lost him again.
GUIDE: .on your left, the control room where the angles are selected and the actors receive direction. Of course, the one place we can't show you is the story department. There is none. .Truman writes the script. From Truman's POV we watch CHLOE approach CHRISTOF. She has a pure white envelope in her hands. As Christof looks up to acknowledge her, he almost makes eye contact with Truman on the INT. STUDIO LOT. DUSK. Still inside the studio complex, the tram enters the courtyard of an indoor shopping mall. Truman gift shops. TRUMAN is momentarily frozen by the sight of window displays full of books and board games carrying his likeness with titles such as, "TrumanTrivia". Video cassettes offering "Truman Highlights". His face emblazoned on T-shirts, caps, coffee mugs and posters. Even Truman Dolls and a model of his decaying Oldsmobile are offered for sale. The tram slows to a stop behind other trams at the tour's end. STUDIO POLICE are checking the disembarking PASSENGERS. Truman, using the TOUR GUIDE as a shield, also exits the tram.
GUIDE: ( frightened for his life ) Here he is! It's him!
GUARD: ( into radio ) We've got him trapped.
CHRISTOF: Truman seems to sense the significance Christof has had in his life, drawn to and repelled by him at the same time. As they stand together looking into each other's eyes for the first time, they seem to be the only two figures on the roof. For a moment Truman averts his gaze to the night sky.
TRUMAN: ( quietly, half to himself, half to Christof ) Even the stars I wished on.
CHRISTOF: ( staring into the chasm, remaining eerily calm ) You won't do it, Truman. I've watched you your whole life.
TRUMAN: ( meeting Christof's gaze ) You never had a camera in my head.
TRUMAN: ( incensed ) Something was real! ( a terrifying anguish ) Something had to be real!
FADE OUT: Writers : Andrew Niccol
