TWINS: FADE IN: 1 LONG BASEMENT CORRIDOR 1 The CAMERA is MOVING SLOWLY DOWN a long basement corridor. We hear a narrator ( Werner )
TWINS: CUT TO:
JULIUS: ( stunned ) I have a brother?!!!
WERNER: ( speaks with an He was sent to an orphanage in Los Angeles. At the same time I brought you here to the island.
JULIUS: ( amazed ) I have a twin brother?!! ( for a moment, What's his name?
WERNER: ( moved ) Vincent Every time I loved something I called it Vincent I called my first computer ( suddenly spins; I have to find him!
JULIUS: ( moved ) Vincent Every time I loved something I called it Vincent I called my first computer ( suddenly spins; I have to find him!
WERNER: ( fretting terribly ) You've been here since you were a baby you know nothing of
JULIUS: I know it is the cradle of democracy and the land of the free; besides, I speak twelve languages I'm sure I can get a
WERNER: They're a simple people; rather primitive, not like us.
JULIUS: My brother will look after me.
JULIUS: It's your only copy
WERNER: My need for it is only sentimental yours may be
JULIUS: Thank you I'll miss you.
WERNER: ( holding back the tears ) I'll miss you.
OLD WOMAN: ( as Julius hugs her ) It's sixty miles to the airport, Julius; be careful.
JULIUS: ( in Japanese; It was an honor to study under you, Master.
ORIENTAL: ( in English ) Ahhh, always on guard. You have learned well, Julius-san.
JULIUS: ( to Werner ) I was just thinking, maybe my brother Vincent is married.
WERNER: Well, if a woman loved my brother enough to marry him, she might have a sister who'd feel the same way about me. That often happens with twins, you know.
JULIUS: Well, if a woman loved my brother enough to marry him, she might have a sister who'd feel the same way about me. That often happens with twins, you know.
WERNER: Julius please don't get your hopes up. Your brother doesn't even know you exist.
JULIUS: ( loudly as he Of course he does. I've always known there was something missing in my life! And deep down, I'm sure Vincent feels the same way! He's probably just like meeeee!
VINCE: You sleep well, honey?
VINCE: Me, too. I love this new mattress. It's soft but it's hard at the same time. And I love this new clock.
VINCE: You've done a great job on this room, Carla.
CARLA: You really think so? Even the The curtains are the key to the whole thing. They're colorful. they're brilliant. they're. great curtains.
VINCE: The curtains are the key to the whole thing. They're colorful. they're brilliant. they're. great curtains.
CARLA: ( melting ) You were great last night, Vince.
VINCE: ( not disagreeing ) ( putting his arm I think we're going to be very happy here.
VINCE: ( a bit surprised but What's he doing back so early?
CARLA: Be right down, sweetheart!
CARLA: Hurry up! I gotta make breakfast!
VINCE: You're wonderful, Carla. Your husband doesn't deserve to kiss your feet.
VINCE: ( he's got a good 'Oh what a beautiful morning, Oh what a beautiful day'.
VINCE: ( exiting the car, . 'everything's going my way'.
VINCE: Carla, what a joy to look at you.
PARKING.": Stop with that horrible song, you know how I hate birthdays; they're worse than Christmas.
VINCE: Stop with that horrible song, you know how I hate birthdays; they're worse than Christmas.
VINCE: ( coy )
AL: Carla and I figured, since you were always admiring mine, what the hell.
VINCE: A lighter, just like yours. I don't know what to say, Al. I'm all choked up.
CARLA: ( into phone ) Hello the Greco residence. sure. Who may I say is calling. Mr. Burt Klane? Vince, it's for
VINCE: ( into phone ) Good morning, Mr. Klane. I hope you're having a wonderful ( cut off ) Yes no problem I have it. Yes. Today. Of course. 'Bye.
AL: What are you doing talking to a Oh no.
VINCE: ( excited ) That's part of my good news You know that money I picked up from the Jaguar we boosted. Well, I put the money in the stock market. I got this incredible
CARLA: Oh no.
VINCE: I can't lose. Ever hear of P.V.T. Industries? Probably not Secret takeover bid
AL: You put the money on a stock?
VINCE: A very special stock and it was such a sure thing I borrowed another 20 grand from the Klane You borrowed from a loan shark to invest in the stock market?
CARLA: ( unbelieving ) You borrowed from a loan shark to invest in the stock market?
VINCE: On margin And as of last night I was ten thousand ahead. I'm going to make a fortune turn on the T.V.
AL: You are having one shitty birthday, Vince.
VINCE: I'm wiped out. I got to get some money fast.
AL: Well. '88 B.M.W. came in for long term last night.
CARLA: Don't you think you're doing this too often?
VINCE: I'm a desperate man.
AL: Level three. Stall 25.
VINCE: This is only four thousand
OWNER: We're in a recession Everything's tough you want to try someone else no hard Forget it.
VINCE: ( sourly ) Forget it.
OWNER: You okay, Vince? You seem a little worried.
VINCE: Me? I laugh myself to sleep every night, and I never sleep alone. I'm doing great!
JULIUS: seated in the rear, still in his peasant garb, the bamboo suitcase resting on his lap. He has his headphones on and is singing along to the music, his eyes closed and his head bobbing.
JULIUS: ( singing ) 'I better wear some boxing gloves, In case some fool might want to
STEWARDESS: I knew you were trouble the second I laid eyes on you.
JULIUS: ( realizing ) Sorry I've never heard this music before I love it.
STEWARDESS: The captain wants us to buckle our seat belts because we're expecting a little turbulence.
JULIUS: ( reading her name Thank you, Betty Lou.
STEWARDESS: I bet you're a football player.
JULIUS: Actually, I'm a horticultural botanist, a mathematician, and a Right. And I'm a brain surgeon.
STEWARDESS: Right. And I'm a brain surgeon.
JULIUS: turns to the terrified elderly woman beside him who's clutching a hardcover Bible in her lap.
JULIUS: ( whispers ) Excuse me, ma'am.
HIGHJACKER: The gun at the panicked Stewardess's head, he continues slowly up the aisle, shouting for everyone to freeze, not even to think about moving now a hardcover book comes rocketing through the air, hits him in the back of the neck and he goes limp, fall- ing across some seats, the gun dropping from his hand.
HAND: retrieving the hardcover Bible from the floor and
OLD WOMAN: as Julius smiles reassuringly, returns her Bible to her, sits back in his seat.
JULIUS: ( gently; calming her ) His mischief shall return upon his own hand, and his violent dealing shall come down upon his own head Psalm 7:16.
BARTENDER: It's him. He's back. Marnie! How are you? Is your sister around?
VINCE: Marnie! How are you? Is your sister around?
MARNIE: You total Linda's car. You pawn her stereo. You declare us as dependents on your tax return!?
VINCE: What an amazing memory
VINCE: ( to Linda ) I am so sorry for all the miserable things I've done to you.
LINDA: Like what?
MARNIE: ( CONTINUED )
LINDA: ( to Marnie ) I'm not going to give him any money. Just take care of my station for a minute.
VINCE: ( emotionally ) I didn't come here for a loan, sweetheart. I came to say ( beat ) It's not safe for me here. People are trying to kill me.
LINDA: What did you do, Vince?
VINCE: I got involved in the stock I promised Marnie I wouldn't give you money. Don't look at me like that. Don't do that with your eyes. I shouldn't even be here with you.
LINDA: ( getting nervous ) I promised Marnie I wouldn't give you money. Don't look at me like that. Don't do that with your eyes. I shouldn't even be here with you.
LINDA: Don't look at me like that. Don't do that with your eyes. I shouldn't even be here with you.
VINCE: ( softly ) You are here and so am I, Maybe millions of people go by, But they all disappear from view, And I only have eyes for you. Linda. I only have eyes for you.
LINDA: ( moved ) That is so beautiful. How do you make up that stuff? You're such a poet.
VINCE: You inspire me.
VINCE: ( whispers ) It's the baby Klane I gotta get the hell out.
BURT KLANE: Where's the little shit?
LINDA: ( very nervous ) You gotta be more specific, considering our clientele.
BURT KLANE: ( laughs ) He wouldn't show his face around here. Right, Marnie?
LINDA: ( laughs ) He wouldn't show his face around here. Right, Marnie?
VINCE: He silently starts to crawl away in the direction of the back door.
MARNIE: ( enjoying calling Who, Vincent?
BURT KLANE: ( cutting her off ) Okay enough.
BOB KLANE: Look what I found crawling around out back.
BURT KLANE: This is only four thousand
VINCE: The rest is invested. We're gonna make a fortune.
BOB KLANE: ( ominous ) Shut up.
LINDA: I hope this helps Please don't hurt him.
BURT KLANE: There you go Another thousand Okay This nice lady just bought you a day Vince I want it all Twenty- thousand this time tomorrow.
VINCE: Twenty ? But I just paid
BURT KLANE: That's just the interest. The twenty's the principal.
VINCE: That was the most wonderful birthday present anybody ever gave It's your birthday? Why didn't you tell me?
LINDA: It's your birthday? Why didn't you tell me?
VINCE: ( suddenly honest ) I can't take the kindness. It gives me the shakes.
LINDA: You'll tremble plenty before we're through, Vince Benedict.
JULIUS: ( almost a whisper ) . How wonderful.
JULIUS: ( to himself ) What an amazing country.
BIKER #1: ROARING up beside Julius, smiling ingratiatingly.
BIKER #1: Got a light, pal?
JULIUS: Sorry, but I don't smoke. pal?
BIKER #1: ( indicating "Fredericks" ) Looking for something for your girl friend?
JULIUS: I. don't have a girl friend. Do women really wear these things?
BIKER #1: If you're lucky. You from out of town?
JULIUS: Yes, a small island in the South Pacific, about 300 nautical miles south-southwest of Fiji.
CASE HANDLE: Julius's hand holds fast to it. Then
BIKER #2: As his mouth drops open as we
JULIUS: just sort of standing there, no big deal, not much effort showing on his face as Biker #2 begins to slowly rise into the air as he and his cycle are about to be parted and then
CYCLIST #2: still holding to the case as his CYCLE ZOOMS away from him and for a moment he is flat in mid-air, parallel to the cement sidewalk and
RIDERLESS MOTORCYCLE: ROARING into the crowd and people shriek, dive out of its way and
CYCLIST #2: falling to the pavement, his head colliding hard and he's out and
RIDERLESS CYCLE: ending its trip as it collides with a storefront and collapses on its side, MOTOR still ROARING but no movement anymore and
CYCLIST #1: stunned, going to his unconscious partner.
BIKER #1: ( to Julius ) What the hell did you do?
JULIUS: I did nothing, the pavement was his enemy.
JULIUS: eyes almost closed as his skilled hands touch the guy a moment more.
JULIUS: I would say a concussion a mild shoulder separation, and ribs
JULIUS: Get him to a hospital.
JULIUS: And in the future, you should both consider wearing helmets.
VINCE: Fifty-three dollars? You gotta be kidding.
COP: Your vehicle's in a handicapped So? Do I look normal to you?
VINCE: So? Do I look normal to you?
COP: You don't have a 'handicapped' sticker on your windshield. Driver's license, please.
COP: You've got over 200 outstanding parking tickets, Mr. Benedict. And you just had your birthday? Well, your driver's license just expired Happy birthday.
JULIUS: And that's where he must have How did you know?
MOTHER SUPERIOR: How did you know?
JULIUS: It's the one I would have chosen. It's next to the fire extinguisher. In case of a fire, I could have given the alarm, and saved the other orphans.
MOTHER SUPERIOR: We've only had one fire at St. Charlotte's. Vince Benedict started it, we like to think by
JULIUS: Tell me about him. Was he a good athlete? Did he like chess and
MOTHER SUPERIOR: I'm certain that God had a purpose when he created Vincent Benedict, but it had nothing to do with chess or poetry.
MOTHER SUPERIOR: That's odd. the contents of his file are missing.
JULIUS: This is him? He looks happy
MOTHER SUPERIOR: ( sighing ) He should that's Sister Maria, his biology teacher.
JULIUS: I always liked biology.
MOTHER SUPERIOR: So did Vincent. He disgraced Sister Maria, who had to leave the order. Then he stole all the money from our library fund and ran away.
JULIUS: But I have to find him. Where do you think he might be?
MOTHER SUPERIOR: Jail. A man of his character could only be in jail. You're full of goodness, Julius I pray that you never find him.
SEVEN FOOTER: ( to Vince who is What're you lookin' at?
VINCE: At you, you jerk. The Seven Footer rises angrily to his full size. Vince moves right in on him he may be going through a bad patch, but make no mistake, Vince is tough.
VINCE: ( to the others in Tyrone Davis, averaged 23 points, eleven rebounds and four blocks a game his senior year. First round pick of the L.A. Clippers and now look at him.
SEVEN FOOTER: ( stunned by the Who're you?
VINCE: ( as he gives World International Athletics Representation. Vincent Benedict President. I coulda got you a no-cut contract so you wouldn't have to heist T.V. sets for a
GUARD: coming to the cell door.
GUARD: Benedict! Visitor.
VINCE: ( moving away ) Call me when you get out, they're always looking for centers in
GUARD: leading an attractive, powerful inmate into the room. The guy is Julius's age.
JULIUS: trying to fight his excitement, watching as the prisoner moves toward him then past him. Julius, confused, stares for a moment straight ahead across the partition, and now he's more confused because Vince is sitting across from him, dubiously studying him, arms crossed. There are phones on both sides of the glass partition. The room, it should be noted, is busy. Julius makes a smile. Vince just stares. Julius mutters "excuse me" and gets up, goes to a nearby
JULIUS: ( soft ) Excuse me, but I'm looking for Vincent Benedict.
GUARD: ( pointing to Vince ) You got 'im.
JULIUS: ( impassioned, but a Vincent. dearest Vincent. I have rowed halfway across the world no, wrong, I only rowed one day but I came halfway across the world I know you don't know who I am, but believe me when I say I have been waiting for this moment all my life.
VINCE: You gotta talk into the phone,
JULIUS: ( understands now
VINCE: listening, somewhat amazed. Who is this loony?
VINCE: ( cutting in ) Whoa. I still got another six hours to pay the money back. You tell those crummy Klane brothers that harassing a man when he's already in the slammer is beneath even them
JULIUS: ( overlapping I don't know any Klane brothers. I'm your brother, Huh? Again?
VINCE: ( stopped dead ) Huh? Again?
JULIUS: I don't know any Klane Brothers.
VINCE: ( wary ) Yeah. Go on I got that part.
JULIUS: My name is Julius I'm your twin brother.
VINCE: ( laughing ) Obviously the minute I sat down I felt like I was looking in a mirror.
JULIUS: We're not identical twins.
VINCE: I wouldn't be too sure.
JULIUS: ( sad ) You don't believe a word I've said, do you?
VINCE: That's right. I don't believe a word you said.
JULIUS: Vincent, I don't lie. I am your brother. Let me help you get out of here.
VINCE: ( now he's interested ) Oh. you want to help me get outta here?
JULIUS: Well, money talks, bullshit walks.
VINCE: Well, money talks, bullshit walks.
JULIUS: How can bullshit walk? Is that I'm in fast company here Listen, you get me outta here, I'll be whatever you want, best friend, brother, nephew, niece,
VINCE: ( to himself ) I'm in fast company here ( to Julius ) Listen, you get me outta here, I'll be whatever you want, best friend, brother, nephew, niece,
VINCE: ( to himself as he Just don't ask me to bend over
VINCE: Listen, 'twinny,' I hope you didn't blow your wad on those tickets, 'cause it's gonna cost a bunch more to release my car.
JULIUS: I have some more money
VINCE: You do?
JULIUS: I am happy to help you, Vincent. You're my brother. I love you.
VINCE: Julius look ease up on the love talk or I'm gonna be tossing my cookies, all right?
JULIUS: Tossing cookies, that is more Just gimme your wallet, okay?
VINCE: Just gimme your wallet, okay?
JULIUS: I know what you're thinking?
VINCE: No, you don't.
JULIUS: You're thinking that this whole twin business is what you call
VINCE: Actually, I was thinking I'm going to need some more money to put gas in my car
JULIUS: You can take some more money
VINCE: I can?
JULIUS: We're brothers right?
VINCE: We're brothers right?
VINCE: They arrest you, they put you behind bars, they fine you and then they hide your car.
JULIUS: ( points ) your car, isn't it?
VINCE'S MUSTANG: Which is what Julius is pointing at.
VINCE: Yeah How'd you know that was my car.
JULIUS: We're twins!
JULIUS: ( very happy ) I'm so excited we'll go to museums together, discuss philosophy together, read books together play chess together
VINCE: Get lost together
JULIUS: Deserted, alone in the sea of cars.
AL: Hey, the new Sedan DeVille. Very
AL: You guys must be going to Hawaii, huh? Catch that good surf.
GARFIELD: Something like that.
AL: There's plenty of space on level
OUTSIDE CADILLAC: as the men get out, lock the car, wipe off the door handles, and then head for the elevator.
VINCE: What're you doing with my desk?
MOVER: Taking back the furniture you're six months behind.
MISS BUSBY: I tried to stop them, Mr. Benedict
VINCE: It was time to redecorate anyway. Vincent Benedict, Incorporated Sports agent, artist's representative import/export automobile sales, rentals, and leasing wholesale patio furniture How may I help you? Oh, hi. It's Al.
MISS BUSBY: ( into phone ) Vincent Benedict, Incorporated Sports agent, artist's representative import/export automobile sales, rentals, and leasing wholesale patio furniture How may I help you? ( listens briefly ) Oh, hi. ( to Vince ) It's Al.
VINCE: ( taking it, talking Miss Busby Stacy this is a transition period for the corporation Why don't you take a few days off.
MISS BUSBY: ( a little lost ) . Aah all right. Whatever you say, Mr. Benedict.
VINCE: 'Aqua-Velva' you shouldn't
VINCE: I hope you got some good news,
AL: ( into phone ) Brand new Caddy on level four.
VINCE: ( thrilled ) Great, I'll be right over.
MORRIS KLANE: Time's up, Vincent Got the
VINCE: In agony, on his knees. It hurts to breath. He finally manages to look up at the giant
VINCE: ( gasping ) Did you hit me yet? 'Cause I didn't feel nothin'.
MORRIS KLANE: He grabs Vince again.
MORRIS KLANE: You gotta understand something, Benedict I like my work.
JULIUS: Behind him, is squeezing a pressure point on Klane's neck, rendering him unable to punch out Vince. Julius maneuvers the Klane off of Vince and forces him down onto the floor.
JULIUS: ( quietly ) These are most unfriendly acts you are committing.
MORRIS KLANE: ( totally surprised )
JULIUS: I don't know what the problem is, but I'm sure it can be solved without resorting to violence.
MORRIS KLANE: ( absolutely in Okay, okay.
JULIUS: Julius lets go of Klane, who gets to his feet, turns around, and instantly lets fly with his fist at Julius's Here Julius effortlessly blocks the punch and goes right on talking.
JULIUS: You moved too soon. An important rule in a crisis situation negotiate first, attack last. You never negotiated. You don't know what kind of enemy I am.
JULIUS: An important rule in a crisis situation negotiate first, attack last. You never negotiated. You don't know what kind of enemy I am.
MORRIS KLANE: Who are you?
JULIUS: Vincent's brother.
VINCE: ( happily ) We're twins.
MORRIS KLANE: You're firewood.
JULIUS: You have no respect for logic
JULIUS: And I have no respect for those with no respect for logic. You're a very stupid person.
VINCE: Watching as Julius picks up Klane with both hands and lifts him a foot up into the air, holding him there for a And this next is timed perfectly as he pushes the elevator button and.
VINCE: And this next is timed perfectly as he pushes the elevator button and.
ELEVATOR DOOR: slides open and.
JULIUS: As he heaves Klane across the corridor into the open elevator Klane crashes down hard just as the door slides shut and.
VINCE: Shouting as the door closes on the crumpled Klane.
VINCE: Tell your brother 'He messes with me, he messes with my whole
VINCE: ( happy ) I like it when you hit people!
JULIUS: I hate violence.
VINCE: But you're so good at it. We ought to go into business together. You could be a boxer and I'll be your manager.
JULIUS: I don't think I could fight for No problem. You do the fighting, I'll keep all the money.
VINCE: No problem. You do the fighting, I'll keep all the money.
JULIUS: ( laughing ) I'm worried about you, Vincent.
JULIUS: How much money do you owe? Don't lie we're twins, I can feel your pain.
VINCE: ( exploding ) Why do you keep saying that? We're not twins, we're not brothers, we're nothing, and you're only in this car because I could use a little protection these days
JULIUS: ( closing his eyes ) Twenty thousand?
VINCE: ( a beat; then, Due this morning.
VINCE: I don't know where my head is I forgot I promised this friend of mine Sammy I'd pick up his car at the airport do me a big favor, okay? Drive this car back from the airport for me.
JULIUS: I'd love to.
VINCE: What are you doing with that Learning to drive.
JULIUS: Learning to drive.
JULIUS: What's the matter?
VINCE: That dopey Sam He did it again. Forgot to leave the keys. A lot of handicapped kids are gonna be really disappointed.
JULIUS: ( moved ) Handicapped children?
VINCE: This car was supposed to be auctioned off at their charity drive tomorrow. Oh, well, let's go eat.
JULIUS: Maybe we should try to open it
VINCE: You think we should do a thing like that?
JULIUS: Of course it's for the
VINCE: ( feigning ignorance ) I saw a guy from the auto club do this once.
VINCE: Whaddya know? Beginner's luck!
VINCE: As he takes a breath, opens the door, scoots inside and the instant he does there is this terrible shrieking SIREN sound Vince frantically scrambles around, lying on the car seat, trying to make it stop but he can't and then two things happen:
JULIUS: holding the rear of the car several feet up in the air.
JULIUS: When the back end is raised to an angle greater than 45 degrees, a mercury switch activates the automatic cutoff system. The alarm's computer thinks the car is being towed away and shuts off.
VINCE: No shit.
JULIUS: ( into phone ) Vincent Benedict's car. ( a beat ) Vincent! Where are you?
JULIUS: ( waving into mirror ) Hi, Vincent.
JULIUS: The brake right.
JULIUS: The brakes worked just fine!
VINCE: Lemme tell you something about America, Julius nobody likes a smart-ass.
LINDA: ( as she reaches Angel's food or devil's food?
MARNIE: The answer's obvious.
LINDA: There's only one Vince Benedict. He's a force of nature.
MARNIE: And that 'poetry' he pretends to write. They're old song lyrics,
LINDA: I know that Geez, you don't think I know that ? It's so cute, the way he thinks he's tricking me. Anyway, what's wrong about other people's songs? Some guys tell you dirty jokes. It just proves that Vince has a romantic soul.
MAGAZINE RACK: Adjacent to the express checkout lane where Linda and Marnie now join the line. Julius picks up a Playboy and begins speed-reading it. His eyes widen at what he's reading, and seeing, and when he reaches the centerfold he audibly gasps.
MARNIE: ( looking at the She's not bad.
JULIUS: ( embarrassed ) I'm sorry. I had no idea these magazines had things like that. inside them.
MARNIE: You didn't? Where've you been? A desert island?
JULIUS: As a matter of fact, a small tropical island, in the South Pacific, about 300 nautical miles south-southwest of Fiji. I only got here yesterday, but already I've found my wonderful brother.
MARNIE: Your brother?
JULIUS: ( proudly ) My twin brother, Vincent.
VINCE: ( to Linda ) God you look beautiful in this Vince. ? I didn't know you had a brother.
LINDA: Vince. ? I didn't know you had a brother.
JULIUS: You all know each other?
VINCE: Julius, meet Linda and. Her charming sister, Marnie.
JULIUS: ( significant )
MARNIE: ( to Julius )
VINCE: ( waving ) Goodbye girls, see you soon.
JULIUS: ( waving ) Goodbye girls, see you soon.
JULIUS: ( embarrassed ) I've only been drivng for an hour.
MARNIE: Why do I think I'm going to see him again? Like maybe tomorrow.
JULIUS: Linda is your girl friend, isn't Yeah. Kind of.
VINCE: Yeah. Kind of.
JULIUS: Is Marnie your girl friend, too?
VINCE: Marnie! Marnie hates my guts. She seemed to like you.
JULIUS: ( trying not to sound She hardly knows me.
VINCE: That's the best way women love men who are mysterious and devious. It keeps them on their toes makes them excited you know what I mean?
JULIUS: You do like women, don't you?
VINCE: You do like women, don't you?
JULIUS: Very much, they're. strange and sensitive and they have compassion. I have the highest respect for women.
VINCE: Now correct me if I'm wrong. You're a virgin, aren't you?
JULIUS: That's private.
VINCE: ( to himself ) He's a 230-pound virgin.
VINCE: ( to cat ) Alright! Alright! I got your food. Yes! 'Liver and Cheese,' 'Chicken Giblets,' all your favorites, Julius.
JULIUS: You named your cat, Julius?
VINCE: The secret to take-out veal Parmesan is adding a little extra cheese. I know you're probably used to growing your own vegetables and spearing fish in the lagoon, but here on the mainland we just nuke it!
VINCE: Dinner is served!
PARKING SPOT: It's definitely empty.
WEBSTER: He looks at the Cadillac key. Clearly, he is not happy at the turn of events.
VINCE: ( expansive ) So, let me get this right. One of our fathers was a famous football player, another one was a physicist at M.I.T.
JULIUS: He won the Nobel Prize.
VINCE: Naturally. so all of our dads were these big shots and Mom was, like, Superwoman, but she didn't survive our delivery. I got sent to an orphanage while you were brought up in a tropical paradise by this scientist you do research for, but who doesn't actually pay you because you don't need money. Did I leave anything out?
JULIUS: I think it's important we try to find our fathers.
VINCE: You mean, all those geniuses who contributed to the. . Sperm milkshake?
JULIUS: Why are you being so immature about this?
VINCE: Do you know how many times I've heard stories like this? It's every orphan's fantasy: 'My real Mom and Dad were rich and beautiful, but there was a mix-up at the hospital and I got switched with another baby. But one day there's going to be a knock at the door and there they'll be with open arms, crying. "My darling! My treasure! We didn't know! How can we make it up to you?"' I'm telling you this for your own good, Julius. It's a crock.
VINCE: I liberated this from my file at the orphanage. Read it and weep.
JULIUS: Dear Sister Anderson, your request for orphans benefits for Vincent Benedict has been denied. According to our files his mother did not die during birth. We have a current address for her at 172 Canyon Glen Drive, Los Angeles. Vincent's case seems to be one of simple abandonment and as such he is inelligible for aid.
VINCE: That's right, Julius, she abandoned This letter was written thirty years ago. We were five years old Our mother. didn't die when we were born. You've known all this time where she was and you never contacted I don't know about your momma, Miss Perfect of 1952, but my momma was a slut, and if she's still alive, I hope she's in a lot of pain. She dumped me once no way she gonna get a chance to do it again
JULIUS: This letter was written thirty years ago. We were five years old Our mother. didn't die when we were born. You've known all this time where she was and you never contacted I don't know about your momma, Miss Perfect of 1952, but my momma was a slut, and if she's still alive, I hope she's in a lot of pain. She dumped me once no way she gonna get a chance to do it again
VINCE: ( angry ) I don't know about your momma, Miss Perfect of 1952, but my momma was a slut, and if she's still alive, I hope she's in a lot of pain. She dumped me once no way she gonna get a chance to do it again
JULIUS: Vincent, if they lied to us about Momma for all these years, maybe they lied to her, too. We must find her, we must check this
VINCE: Julius slow down I've got no time for this. You go hunt down Mom, I've got a cash flow problem to deal with.
VINCE: ( into phone )
VINCE: Or else what?
JULIUS: Everyone seems so angry in America.
GARFIELD: The tests on the lower temperature gaskets look great.
LARSON: Looks like an easy weekend.
SECRETARY: ( concerned ) Mr. Garfield, there's a.
GARFIELD: ( preoccupied ) Not now.
GARFIELD: Who are you?
WEBSTER: ( friendly ) I'm Webster, it's okay.
GARFIELD: on the sound of the name. He looks at Larson. A beat.
LARSON: ( terribly upset ) Christ, man, you were never supposed to come here.
GARFIELD: ( rattled ) The deal was we were never supposed to meet. You're supposed to be.
WEBSTER: Driving that Cadillac to Texas? Got my driving gloves, got my driving glasses, got my hat. but no car.
GARFIELD: The car was there! The merchandise was in the trunk! Your instructions were on the cassette!
WEBSTER: Let me explain something to you. I have a reputation to uphold. People put their trust in me because they know I always deliver the goods and I always come back with the money. This whole thing is making me look very bad. This is bullshit! The car was That's right. The parking attendant thought we were off for The parking attendant?
GARFIELD: This is bullshit! The car was That's right. The parking attendant thought we were off for The parking attendant?
LARSEN: That's right. The parking attendant thought we were off for The parking attendant?
WEBSTER: ( a brief pause ) The parking attendant?
GARFIELD: He liked the car. We'd put on those damn loud shirts so we'd look like tourists
LARSEN: He asked us if we were going surfing. He was a jerk.
WEBSTER: You know, I just realized that in twenty years of service no other client has ever seen my face.
GARFIELD: ( nervously ) I don't think that's a problem.
WEBSTER: Guess you're right.
WEBSTER: Thanks for everything, guys. I'll see what I can do about those Laker tickets. Yeah, I'll tell her.
WEBSTER: They want you to hold their calls. They're going to be working late.
GRANGER: ( after a beat ) I'm terribly sorry to disturb your party and I realize this might sound strange, but I'm looking for someone who lived here a long time ( finally ) Mary Anne Benedict. She was my mother.
JULIUS: I'm terribly sorry to disturb your party and I realize this might sound strange, but I'm looking for someone who lived here a long time Mary Anne Benedict. She was my mother.
JULIUS: She was my mother.
GRANGER: You're Mary Anne's son?
GIRL: ( pointing at photo ) Isn't that you, Grandpa?
GRANGER: ( to Girl ) Why don't you go help your grandma with lunch, honey?
GRANGER: They told your mother that you died at birth.
GRANGER: I guess you could say I'm your One of my fathers
JULIUS: One of my fathers
GRANGER: ( wistfully studying 'Mary Anne Benedict'. I haven't said her name aloud for over 30 years. She was the love of my ( shaking his head ) The times I've wondered what would have happened if I'd married her.
JULIUS: Why didn't you?
GRANGER: She turned me down. Said she was afraid to have children. She took it real hard when they told her you died. She even stopped painting. Did you know she Until yesterday I didn't even know she might still be alive. Who told her we died?
JULIUS: Until yesterday I didn't even know she might still be alive. Who told her we died?
GRANGER: I have a twin brother, Vincent.
JULIUS: I have a twin brother, Vincent.
GRANGER: There's two of you? She never knew that, either.
GRANGER: Mitchell Traven. He supervised the experiment for the government.
JULIUS: I'll go see him.
GRANGER: Watch out for him he's kind of a dickhead, if you know what I No, I don't but I'm learning.
JULIUS: No, I don't but I'm learning.
VINCE: ( deciding and Sorry the car's been promised for a kid's charity.
VINCE: ( experimentally ) Uh. Webster calling from California. I happen to have some merchandise you might want
VINCE: Look, Beetroot if we can't renegotiate we wither and die. I'm not delivering any goddam Cadillac without knowing for sure I got twenty for my cut.
VINCE: I guess twenty seems a little high to you. I'm a reasonable guy I'll take fifteen Listen to me, you poor excuse for a warmed over turd, a deal's a Don't 'but' me, the deal is five
VINCE: CUT TO:
VINCE: ( hard to breathe ) F-five million dollars.
VINCE: ( into phone ) I'll see you in Houston after all, fair is fair. ( staring at the I'll just have to find it in my heart to live with your offer.
VINCE: I'll see you in Houston after all, fair is fair. I'll just have to find it in my heart to live with your offer.
VINCE: Five million dollars!
WEBSTER: Your boss at the lot told me you were on duty when the Cadillac clocked in. Now what's his name?
AL: Okay. His name is Vince Benedict.
WEBSTER: That's certainly a beginning.
CARLA: ( to Al ) I'm really disappointed in you ratting on your best friend.
WEBSTER: ( to Carla ) My best friend who's been screwing my wife for three years.
CARLA: You knew?
AL: All three years.
CARLA: ( indicating Webster; And you never told me until there was a stranger listening? Shit, what about my reputation?
WEBSTER: Where can I find Mister Benedict?
AL: I'm not saying.
WEBSTER: Let me get this right You're protecting the weasel who's been screwing your wife for the past three years.
AL: He's my friend.
WEBSTER: Well, I guess I'll have to beat it out of you
CARLA: Stop I'll tell He lives at 1622 Westridge Place He's got an office at the corner of Highland and Hollywood.
AL: Thanks for saving me.
CARLA: I always loved you, Al.
AL: I love you too, Carla.
WEBSTER: ( getting up, No one's gonna believe this one.
VINCE: ( singing ) 'Going back to Houston, Houston,
VINCE: ( startled ) ( panting ) Vince, the most amazing thing has You scared the living shit out of I met one of our fathers. He told me of a man in New Mexico who probably knows where Momma is.
JULIUS: ( panting ) Vince, the most amazing thing has You scared the living shit out of I met one of our fathers. He told me of a man in New Mexico who probably knows where Momma is.
VINCE: You scared the living shit out of I met one of our fathers. He told me of a man in New Mexico who probably knows where Momma is.
JULIUS: I met one of our fathers. He told me of a man in New Mexico who probably knows where Momma is.
VINCE: ( patronizing )
JULIUS: She didn't abandon you she didn't even know you were born!
VINCE: ( feigning concern ) Awww that's terrible.
JULIUS: And she was told that I died!
VINCE: Look, Julius, I'm in kind of a hurry. Sammy wants me to take the car to Houston. Much bigger bucks when you raffle for charity in Houston.
JULIUS: ( excited ) New Mexico is on the way to ( snatching back map ) A lot of places are on the way to Houston. I'll be back in a few days. Stay in my apartment. Run up my phone bill. Throw wild parties. Take advantage of me.
VINCE: ( snatching back map ) A lot of places are on the way to Houston. I'll be back in a few days. Stay in my apartment. Run up my phone bill. Throw wild parties. Take advantage of me.
JULIUS: Vincent, we have to go see this man Traven in New Mexico!
VINCE: No we don't.
JULIUS: Yes we do! And I'm coming with
VINCE: You know you're right. This is fate destiny But there's no way I'm gonna drive for 1500 miles with you smelling like that
JULIUS: ( calming down ) You're right I'll take a shower be right back
VINCE: ( to himself ) Why does everybody have to like me so much?
LINDA: Happy birthday, Vince.
VINCE: Oh please It's not my birthday Happy birthday, Vince. Is Julius He's inside.
MARNIE: Happy birthday, Vince. Is Julius He's inside.
VINCE: He's inside.
LINDA: ( crestfallen ) Where are you going?
VINCE: You were going somewhere you weren't even going to say
LINDA: You were going somewhere you weren't even going to say
VINCE: Okay, okay look, you can't tell anybody this not even your sister but I'm onto something so huge it gives me a rash just thinking about it.
LINDA: Like what?
VINCE: I got something in here I don't even know what it is that's worth a fortune!
LINDA: ( shrieks ) A fortune! That's great! Never sleep with that man. Never loan him money. And never believe a word he tells you that's free advice.
NEIGHBOR: Never sleep with that man. Never loan him money. And never believe a word he tells you that's free advice.
LINDA: ( as if innocent ) I borrowed a cup of sugar from her once.
VINCE: ( as if innocent ) I borrowed a cup of sugar from her once.
LINDA: I'm coming with you. I'm not letting you out of my sight.
VINCE: No you're not.
LINDA: I am because if you say 'no' one more time I'll tell everybody you're hiding a fortune in your
VINCE: ( a hand over her Okay, okay. Just don't let on to Julius. He thinks we're going to look up our ancestors, like in 'Roots' or something.
JULIUS: ( embarrassed ) Marnie excuse me I was just taking a shower.
MARNIE: ( holding up a box I heard you singing I baked some cookies for you.
MARNIE: I guess it was a dumb idea.
JULIUS: Not at all I'm really looking forward to tasting them. I should put on some clothes But I'm not sure.
MARNIE: Oh don't mind me.
JULIUS: I hope Vince doesn't mind if I borrow one of his shirts.
MARNIE: ( while eyeing Julius Just don't try wearing his pants.
LINDA: throws open the door, with a big smile on her face.
LINDA: Guess what? Vince just invited us all to go to New Mexico and That's a great idea, Vince.
JULIUS: That's a great idea, Vince.
WEBSTER: ( to cat ) Your owner seems to be a very popular fellow these days.
WEBSTER: BURT KLANE
BURT KLANE: Who are you?
WEBSTER: It's not really important, is it? I wanted to feed the cat before I
BURT KLANE: I asked you a question.
WEBSTER: Who are you?
BOB: ( helping out ) We're the Klane brothers. That's Burt and Morris I'm Bob.
WEBSTER: Interesting genetic pool. You're looking for Vince Benedict, right?
WEBSTER: Am I Vince Benedict?
WEBSTER: So what's the difference who I am?
BURT KLANE: Hit him, Bob.
WEBSTER: ( to Morris ) Your brothers seem to have a problem with their feet. ( dangerously to It could be contagious.
WEBSTER: ( polite, as he Have a good, good day.
LINDA: Did Julius like the cookies?
MARNIE: I'm not sure. he said they'd provide one hundred percent of the average daily requirement of fourteen source vitamins in a high-fiber form that's an integral part of a properly balanced diet.
LINDA: I think that's good.
MARNIE: I really hope so.
VINCE: This ought to fit you. Whoa get away from that window! There's women and children out What is wrong with you?
VINCE: Whoa get away from that window! There's women and children out What is wrong with you?
JULIUS: You allergic to something?
VINCE: You allergic to something?
JULIUS: No. Why?
VINCE: What are those bumps doing all over your body? You're all swelled up. You look like you're about to explode.
JULIUS: ( finally getting it ) We can't all be born beautiful like you, Vince. Some of us
VINCE: Are just born to be bad. It's you, Julius. Oooh, you are so
MARNIE: As he walks past, Julius slaps her five.
JULIUS: Let's rock and roll.
VINCE: ( to the girls ) It's his first T-shirt.
MARNIE: Good luck.
JULIUS: Thank you.
MARNIE: See you later.
VINCE: See if you can get us a room with a king-sized bed, okay?
JULIUS: ( to Linda or to That's not necessary. I always sleep on the floor.
VINCE: Now promise me something.
JULIUS: You still think I'm making it all up, don't you?
TRAVEN: I don't know who you are and I don't know what you're talking about. Now get the hell out of here before I call security.
VINCE: ( vindicated ) Well, that's that. On to Houston.
JULIUS: He's lying!
VINCE: Keep your voice down. This place is crawling with security
JULIUS: For the first time in my life, I pissed off!
VINCE: Don't do this to me. I got a car to deliver. The last thing I need is a detour in the slammer
JULIUS: I'm going to make him tell us the truth.
VINCE: CUT TO:
JULIUS: marches inside, towards a startled Traven, as Vince tries to restrain him.
JULIUS: ( indicating photo ) That's our mother those are our six fathers that's Werner and that's you! Start talking!
TRAVEN: You turned out just like I thought you would, Vincent. What did you do, escape from prison?
VINCE: . How did you know my name?
TRAVEN: ( reptilian smile ) I named you.
VINCE: Holy shit. It's all true.
LABORATORY DOOR: Chained and padlocked. Traven unlocks it, pulls off the 129 INT. LAB - DAY 129 The very same one we saw in our opening, now covered in dust and cobwebs. Julius and Vince take it all in; they're numb, while Traven seems in control again.
TRAVEN: This room was sealed as soon as your mother gave birth.
JULIUS: approaches a delivery table, touches it gently, looks back at Traven.
TRAVEN: You came out first, of course. We weren't expecting him.
VINCE: gazes at the "blender" we saw Traven demonstrating in
VINCE: ( awestruck ) This must be where you made the
TRAVEN: gazes contemptuously at Vince.
TRAVEN: We weren't making milkshakes. We were making the most fully- developed human the world has ever
VINCE: But instead of just one perfect kid, Mom had two of us way to go, Mom.
TRAVEN: Wrong. The embryo split in two, but it didn't split equally. All the purity and strength went into Julius. All the crap that was left over went into what you see in the mirror every morning.
VINCE: ( stunned ) Whoa I'm the crap?
JULIUS: It's not true, Vince.
VINCE: No, I want to hear this. I'm left-over crap? I'm no good?
JULIUS: He's wrong.
TRAVEN: Just look at him
VINCE: You tellin' me I'm a side
TRAVEN: ( dismissive ) You haven't got the brainpower to understand this Vincent, and I haven't got the time show's
JULIUS: ( at boiling point ) Tell us where our mother is. ( terrified ) Whispering Pines. it's an artists colony. two hundred miles north of Santa Fe.
TRAVEN: ( terrified ) Whispering Pines. it's an artists colony. two hundred miles north of Santa Fe.
JULIUS: If you're lying to me. I'll be back.
VINCE: My life just got flushed down the You're wrong, Vincent. Your life's just about to begin.
JULIUS: You're wrong, Vincent. Your life's just about to begin.
VINCE: I'm genetic garbage.
JULIUS: Vincent, we're twins.
VINCE: ( patronizing ) I know this is a touchy subject for you, Julius. But the fact is, we don't look the same we don't act the same, we don't talk the same we don't dress the same.
JULIUS: I know.
VINCE: ( angry ) So how come if we're the same, we're so damn different.
JULIUS: We had six fathers, Vince. We're different parts of a lot of different people.
VINCE: And remember, I was taken to a beautiful island, protected, educated, loved, given every opportunity to grow, to dream, to create. But you had none of that.
JULIUS: And remember, I was taken to a beautiful island, protected, educated, loved, given every opportunity to grow, to dream, to create. But you had none of that.
JULIUS: You had nobody. Nobody to love you, nobody to trust you, nobody to encourage you. All life taught you was that the only person you could count on was yourself.
JULIUS: You're the missing part of my life and I'm the missing part of your life. And when we find our mother we can fill the missing part of hers. We won't be alone anymore, Vince. We can be a family.
VINCE: A family? You really think so?
VINCE: With like Thanksgiving dinner? And Christmas trees.
JULIUS: . and a real home where you'll always be welcome.
VINCE: Even when you've been bad.
JULIUS: Even when you've been bad.
JULIUS: Is this necessary?
VINCE: I'm not introducing you to my mother dressed like some goatsherder from Albania. You need some new clothes.
SALES CLERK: Can I help you, sir?
VINCE: Do I look like I need help? Here's the problem. Maybe I'll try on a couple of things myself.
JULIUS: Do I look okay?
VINCE: You look better, put it that way. We got to do something about the way you walk. You're moving a tad stiff, Jules. Ever see I read the book.
JULIUS: I read the book.
VINCE: That's not gonna help. You got to walk like you're moving in time to music. I'm not talking about military marches now, I mean Aretha Franklin, Otis Redding, Wilson Pickett, Archie Bell and the Drells and a couple of white
VINCE: Like this. You just got to try to be cool, you know? Try these
JULIUS: Am I cool now?
VINCE: Mr. Ice.
JULIUS: ( excited ) We know where to find our momma!
VINCE: Everything Julius said was true. I'm the product of geniuses!
LINDA: I always knew that.
VINCE: Of course, but it's nice to make it official.
JULIUS: Tommorrow we're going to finally meet our mother.
VINCE: And tonight we celebrate!
JULIUS: ( embarrassed; a burst ) Vince, you've got to help me I've never been out on a date before. what should I do?
VINCE: Talk to her, buy her some drinks, dance with her. Girls like to Julius looks at his brother.
JULIUS: I guess you haven't done that before either.
VINCE: I guess you haven't done that before either.
VINCE: Well forget all that disco shit, everyone's seen it. When I really want to romance a girl, I waltz with her.
JULIUS: You dance with them?
VINCE: It turns them to putty in your
VINCE: He shoves a chair out of the way, making a little room.
VINCE: Okay, come here, put your feet by my feet
JULIUS: ( coming over ) Thank you for this, Vince
VINCE: ( a pained look on I said put your feet by my feet not on my feet!
VINCE: I'll lead, you follow. Okay, one, two, three, turn. . put your arm here you're breaking my fingers you're not wrestling a boar 300 miles south southwest of Fiji don't clench your teeth
VINCE: ( to Julius ) Well, you've learned to waltz. Now it's time to introduce you to the wonderful world of getting
JULIUS: Did you know they had beer in ancient Egypt?
MARNIE: Er. no.
JULIUS: Actually it was invented by the Assyrians, but the Eygptians were the first people to perfect the malt fermentation process.
LINDA: You sure know a lot about beer.
MARNIE: He knows a lot about everything.
JULIUS: But it's all from books. Until tonight I never had a beer. All theory, no practice the story of my life!
VINCE: Well, we're going to change all that aren't we, Marnie?
JULIUS: Can I ask you a question?
MARNIE: Am I shit-faced yet?
JULIUS: Am I shit-faced yet?
MARNIE: ( laughing ) You're getting there.
VINCE: Please excuse me my back teeth are floating.
JULIUS: I better see if mine are, too.
JULIUS: You do that too, huh?
VINCE: ( lying ) Not all the time. ( a beat ) Listen, Marnie's got the hots for you. Tonight could be your lucky I don't think she really likes me.
JULIUS: I don't think she really likes me.
VINCE: Piece of cake. You're nervous 'cause it's your first time. Perfectly natural.
JULIUS: Were you nervous?
VINCE: I was twelve and she was a nun that's real pressure. I got to admit it, Jules since I met you, life is getting better all the time.
VINCE: I got to admit it, Jules since I met you, life is getting better all the time.
JULIUS: For me, too, Vince! Sometimes I'm so happy, I want to pick you up and hug you!
VINCE: Hey, cut it out! Not in here! Go easy on the beer, okay?
VINCE: ( to Julius ) Go easy on the beer, okay?
BEETROOT: Lookin' forward to it.
BEETROOT: ( to Webster ) Sorry, Webster, looks like I'm doin' business with someone else.
WEBSTER: ( nods ) I'd do the same thing. You want the delivery, it's not your problem who delivers. ( handing him a If you ever need me, my answering service forwards all messages.
BEETROOT: ( handing card to Put this in my personal file. ( staring at the God, I love a professional.
LINDA: Did you tell anybody we were coming to Santa Fe?
MARNIE: ( unconcerned ) Well, I phoned work and told them we wouldn't be coming in for a few days. Oh, I forgot to tell you we've been fired.
LINDA: ( tight-lipped ) Let's go to the ladies' room.
MARNIE: But we just went.
BURT KLANE: Hello, girls Do you mind if we sit down and enjoy the music with
BURT KLANE: This has gone way past a simple case of loan deliquency.
BOB KLANE: We don't like getting shot.
VINCE: What are you talking about? We didn't shoot anybody.
BURT KLANE: It's no way to do business.
JULIUS: What do you want?
BURT KLANE: We want to take Vince out to the parking lot and kill him.
VINCE: That's kind of drastic, don't you
MORRIS KLANE: Let's go.
JULIUS: ( ominous ) Don't touch him.
BURT KLANE: ( suddenly rough ) This is not your problem you don't want me to hurt these lovely ladies, do you?
MARNIE: ( cries out ) You moved too soon.
JULIUS: You moved too soon.
BURT KLANE: The second rule in a crisis He's starting that funny talk
JULIUS: The second rule in a crisis He's starting that funny talk
MORRIS KLANE: ( wary ) He's starting that funny talk
JULIUS: If you choose to bluff, you must be prepared to have your bluff This is no bluff Asshole
BURT KLANE: This is no bluff Asshole
BURT KLANE: Meet my cousins. Get these jerks outside.
VINCE: How many of those. rules do you Quite a few. They were formulated by a Kendo swordsman in the 17th century, but their philosophical underpinnings can be applied to many other areas of life.
JULIUS: Quite a few. They were formulated by a Kendo swordsman in the 17th century, but their philosophical underpinnings can be applied to many other areas of life.
VINCE: I bet.
VINCE: Uh. we got cable TV, a fully stocked bar, free ice we're in great shape.
JULIUS: Where you going?
VINCE: I thought I'd just go and tuck Linda in for the night.
VINCE: Maybe read her a bedtime story. Don't wait up for me.
JULIUS: What a day, Vincent, we visited our birth place. We bought new clothes. We danced the waltz. We get into a fight We've got this great room. It just doesn't get any better than this.
VINCE: Oh yes it does.
JULIUS: sits watching the TV, nodding in amusement, laughing, slapping his knee in pleasure.
JULIUS: ( calling out ) You forgot your key I know. Lucky I waited up.
JULIUS: Hi Vince and Linda want to be alone, so I'm afraid I'm going to stay here. Which bed should I Either. I always sleep on the
MARNIE: Hi Vince and Linda want to be alone, so I'm afraid I'm going to stay here. Which bed should I Either. I always sleep on the
JULIUS: ( stunned ) Either. I always sleep on the
MARNIE: Good night.
JULIUS: Good night. This mattress is awful.
MARNIE: This mattress is awful.
MARNIE: Sorry. Good night.
JULIUS: Good night. This mattress is just as bad as the other one.
MARNIE: This mattress is just as bad as the other one.
MARNIE: This is better. Good night.
JULIUS: Good night.
JULIUS: Are you cold?
MARNIE: It's alright.
JULIUS: No, please, take my shirt. I'm You still cold?
JULIUS: You still cold?
MARNIE: Just my legs.
JULIUS: Well, I could give you my.
MARNIE: ( sitting up )
JULIUS: Anything else?
MARNIE: I'd love a glass of water.
JULIUS: ( realizes that he's
MARNIE: She spills the water all over her top and bedding.
MARNIE: Oh, great!
MARNIE: Do you mind if I share your blanket? Mine's all wet.
JULIUS: ( gulps ) No that would be okay.
MARNIE: Could we switch sides? I like to sleep on the left.
JULIUS: She starts to roll over Julius, then pauses directly above him and looks him dead in the eye.
MARNIE: Can I ask you something for a Do you like me? I mean, even a little bit?
JULIUS: Do you like me? I mean, even a little bit?
MARNIE: Do you like me? I mean, even a little bit?
JULIUS: I. I'm crazy about you, Marnie. But there's something about me you ought to know.
MARNIE: ( looking away ) I'm a virgin.
JULIUS: ( looking away ) I'm a virgin.
VINCE: ( under his breath; Eighteen nineteen
LINDA: You sick or something?
VINCE: Julius gave me a few pointers Seventy-five seventy-six I don't need to exercise, but Mom's gonna see me for the first time in thirty-five years, I wanna look my best.
LINDA: She'll love you whatever you look like.
VINCE: I know she will I have that effect on people One hundred and forty-three one forty-four I just hope she's not too disappointed in Julius he can't help how weird he seems at the I think you're nervous.
LINDA: I think you're nervous.
VINCE: Hey I sleep great every what if she's disappointed in me?
LINDA: ( pats the bed ) ( final sit-up ) ( gets up )
VINCE: ( final sit-up ) Five hundred. ( gets up ) Don't want to overdo.
LINDA: If she's disappointed in you, then she's a fake who could want more from a son?
VINCE: ( thinking about it ) You're right. ( a beat ) I couldn't do this without you, I know. That's why, when we get back, I think we should move in Whoa! Move in together?
LINDA: I know. That's why, when we get back, I think we should move in Whoa! Move in together?
VINCE: ( threatened ) Whoa! Move in together?
LINDA: I'm not saying we have to get married or anything, and it's not about me wanting to keep an eye on you, either. I just want to live with you.
VINCE: I'm no good at playing house I'm grouchy in the morning, cranky in the afternoon, moody at night
LINDA: I promise not to try and make you happy unless you want me to.
VINCE: Why don't we sleep on this, okay? I mean, I've got a big day It's gonna be great taking my best girl to meet my mom.
LINDA: Am I really your best girl?
VINCE: There's nobody else, Linda, not There better not be, because. 'I only have eyes for you.'
LINDA: There better not be, because. 'I only have eyes for you.'
MARNIE: Are you sure you've never done this before?
JULIUS: I think I would have remembered.
LINDA: Let's get her some flowers.
VINCE: Good idea. One bunch from me, one from Jules.
MARNIE: And one from us
JULIUS: It's very beautiful, isn't it, Not to mention valuable real estate like this must be worth a You mustn't always think of money.
VINCE: Not to mention valuable real estate like this must be worth a You mustn't always think of money.
JULIUS: ( a rebuke ) You mustn't always think of money.
VINCE: ( innocent ) You got me wrong I'm just saying it's nice Mom's loaded that's a worry she won't have to have in her old age.
CUSTODIAN: Can I help you?
JULIUS: We'd like to see Miss Mary Anne Benedict, please.
CUSTODIAN: I'm afraid that's not possible.
VINCE: We've come a long way. I can assure you she's going to be very happy to see us.
CUSTODIAN: I suggest you write a letter to the Benedict Foundation stating your business.
VINCE: A foundation?
THE QUARTER: They stand still watching.
JULIUS: ( indicating the You think it's her? I do.
VINCE: Gotta be. Well, don't just stand there.
LINDA: Introduce yourselves.
FEMALE GARDNER: on her knees. She's in work clothes, smudged, hair in a bandana. Maybe 60, there's something terribly appealing about her. She's her own woman. She gets up from her knees now as they approach but not before we note the quality of her gardening it's the size Julius had back on the island.
GARDENER: Should you be here?
VINCE: ( tries to joke ) That depends on how you feel personally about trespassing.
GARDNER: ( umamused; to Is he always funny like that?
JULIUS: ( very politely ) We'd like to see Mary Ann Benedict please; is she here?
GARDENER: 'Course she's here climbing over the wall like that, I should call the police
VINCE: Please don't do that look this isn't one of your average everyday situations she's our mother is the thing.
JULIUS: We're her sons.
VINCE: Twin sons.
GARDENER: You're comedians
VINCE: We're kind of a surprise.
GARDENER: ( takes off her I'll bet you are follow me.
VINCE: ( whispering to We were right
JULIUS: ( softly ) It is her
JULIUS: ( confused ) We thought that that woman
VINCE: Is Mary Ann?
GARDENER: No This is an artist's colony; there's a lot of painters.
VINCE: This is some chunk of real estate Mom owns it all, I guess.
GARDENER: You can't really own something like that view over there, or that sunset, can you?
VINCE: ( a believer ) No, of course not.
JULIUS: ( to Linda and I can't wait to meet her.
GARDENER: This way, please.
GARDENER: Mary Anne Benedict never understood why people wanted to buy her paintings. But for a brief period they were considered valuable. She used the money to buy Whispering Pines so that young artists would have a place to
VINCE: She's not famous anymore?
GARDENER: She never wanted to be famous. She just wanted to be left alone.
JULIUS: May I ask you a question? Why do you keep referring to her in the past tense?
GARDENER: Because she passed away, some time
VINCE: But but you said she was here
GARDENER: She is I meant her spirit. Her spirit is always here. Excuse me.
VINCE: ( behind the wheel ) Can we get the hell out of here?
PAINTER: What was that all about?
GARDENER: These real estate developers won't be happy until they turn this place into a golf course.
PAINTER: Now they're climbing over the They're shameless. They'll try Those men claimed to be my twin sons, if you can believe that. It was really quite disturbing.
GARDENER: They're shameless. They'll try Those men claimed to be my twin sons, if you can believe that. It was really quite disturbing.
PAINTER: Oh, Mary Anne, I am sorry.
LINDA: You ought to be so proud of your mother, Vince. She donated her house and her land and all her paintings to help young artists.
VINCE: Do I look like a young artist to you, Linda?
MARNIE: ( gently ) Vince, all she meant was
VINCE: ( picking a fight ) I know what she meant. And I know why she's here, too. It's got nothing to do with my mother and everything to do with money.
LINDA: You know that's not true.
VINCE: ( hard ) Take it easy, Vincent. It's not her fault.
JULIUS: Take it easy, Vincent. It's not her fault.
VINCE: You hear that, everybody? The creature from the black lagoon just put in his two bits. I should have my head examined for listening to you in the first place deal-of-a-lifetime opportunity and I'm driving around looking for a dead mother.
JULIUS: ( very sad ) All I wanted was to make us into a ( stands up ) Family, my butt. There's no family here. There's just me and three losers I'm leaving.
VINCE: ( stands up ) Family, my butt. There's no family here. There's just me and three losers I'm leaving.
LINDA: Vince quit acting crazy
MARNIE: ( stunned ) He dumped us in the middle of New Mexico.
JULIUS: We'll be fine. And maybe he'll be better off alone.
LINDA: You don't know he's got something worth maybe millions in that trunk he could get himself killed delivering it.
JULIUS: He's been getting out of trouble all his life, he's good at it.
MARNIE: He may need you.
JULIUS: ( voice flat, dead ) I don't know much anymore on the island I was smart. Here, I've only made things worse.
MARNIE: Don't you realize you could make things a lot worse if you don't do something. Julius you're still very smart it's just you're not thinking so well right now on account of what you found out at Whispering Pines but you're not alone, you know I mean, you live long enough, everyone's mother dies.
VINCE: Okay, Beetroot It's time. I'll be there tomorrow where do we meet and trade?
JULIUS: ( to Linda ) Don't worry, Linda. I found him once, I'll find him again.
MARNIE: Be careful.
JULIUS: He turns away.
MARNIE: CUT TO:
JULIUS: spinning back, grabbing her up, folding her into his arms, planting a world-class kiss on her mouth. HOLD ON the two of them.
CREEP: ( holds up cigarette ) Got a light, pal?
JULIUS: ( scary ) Don't fuck with me. pal.
VINCE: I thought we had a deal here.
BODYGUARD: ( to Beetroot ) This is it.
VINCE: This is what?
BEETROOT: ( to Vince ) You come here alone, unarmed? You're just a fool who stole a car, aren't you? It's a new, low- cost fuel-injection system for jet engines worth a fortune to the company that brings it to the market first. ( ruthlessly; to What are you waiting for?
VINCE: Five million dollars
BODYGUARD: ( sarcastic ) You wanna count it?
VINCE: I trust you.
WEBSTER: emerges from the shadows with a powerful pump action shotgun. He opens the Caddy and pushes the dead Bodyguard off the horn. Beetroot has a hole in his head, as well. Webster turns and gazes back toward Vince who is sprinting for safety. Webster calmly goes after him, reloading his 172 INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY 172 It's filled with forklifts, cranes and various forms of heavy machinery. Webster enters and looks cautiously
WEBSTER: ( calling out ) All I want is the money, Benedict. Just give me what's mine and you can go back to stealing cars and screwing your best friend's wife.
VINCE: hiding behind some machinery, scurries deeper into the bowels of the warehouse.
WEBSTER: moves forward, stalking him.
VINCE: crawling along the ground. He spots an open window up ahead at the end of the warehouse. Nearer, to his right, is another window, closed. Vince picks up a piece of pipe, aims, fires it at the closed window and as it breaks the glass
WEBSTER: FIRING at the sound. He can't see Vince but he pours his fire at the window Vince broke large chunks of the BUILDING EXPLODE off wherever Webster fires.
WEBSTER: Pack it in, Vince, you're only wasting time I don't give a damn about you, just the money
VINCE: crouched near the open window, glancing back at Webster who has no idea where he is. Noiselessly, he slides out of the open window, briefcase in hand, starts to run moving in on the shattered window. A bit irritated.
WEBSTER: moving in on the shattered window. A bit irritated.
WEBSTER: Vince, if you don't cut this horseshit I may have to hurt Leave my brother alone!
JULIUS: ( over ) Leave my brother alone!
JULIUS: I've got the money.
WEBSTER: ( gun trained on Well don't be shy ( gesturing ) come on down.
VINCE: No way. this is bullshit. Julius, you putz.
WEBSTER: Just exactly who are you?
JULIUS: Vincent's twin brother we're in this together.
WEBSTER: Keep your hands that way.
JULIUS: Don't be nervous I hate violence and I never carry guns.
VINCE: ( muttering ) Goddam ESP-psycho-voodoo bullshit.
WEBSTER: ( disgusted ) 'Shakespeare's Collected Works'?. 'The Mind of Confucius'?. 'Advanced Quantum Mechanics'?. What is this shit?
JULIUS: I needed something to read on the airplane.
WEBSTER: ( raising rifle ) Yeah, well your flying days are
VINCE: hands held high, appears, stands beside Julius.
WEBSTER: He covers them both, kneels, opens Vince's suitcase, glances at the money inside.
VINCE: I am never going to forgive you for this.
JULIUS: You were going to get killed. I tried to distract him so you could escape.
VINCE: I had escaped. I was on my way to Brazil when I felt you.
JULIUS: So, why didn't you go?
VINCE: Because, thanks to you, I'm now not only a godamn psychic, I've got this disease called a Nobody ever said being good was
JULIUS: Nobody ever said being good was
VINCE: How am I going to survive out there? What are my friends going to think?
JULIUS: ( smiling ) You haven't got any friends.
WEBSTER: Just what are you two talking Butt out, okay? This is family stuff, we're squabbling, it's personal, just take the money and go sit in the lap of luxury somewhere. Try Brazil.
VINCE: ( to Webster ) Butt out, okay? This is family stuff, we're squabbling, it's personal, just take the money and go sit in the lap of luxury somewhere. Try Brazil.
WEBSTER: ( cocking his shotgun ) I doesn't work like that, you might talk to people ( aiming the rifle Who wants it first.
JULIUS: Shoot him. This whole thing is his fault.
WEBSTER: Whatever you want.
VINCE: Hold it, don't I get a say in
JULIUS: pulls a gun from his sleeve and blows Webster's weapon out of his hands. Webster screams in pain, clutching his hand, dancing around.
VINCE: ( amazed ) You can be an irritating pain but sometimes you come in handy. Where'd you get the gun?
JULIUS: From the dead man in the car.
VINCE: ( to Webster ) You should have checked if he had a gun, chump.
WEBSTER: He said he didn't believe in I lied.
JULIUS: ( proudly )
VINCE: ( teasing ) Ooooh you lied?
JULIUS: I had to.
VINCE: Looks like you messed with the wrong people, wise guy.
WEBSTER: You got lucky.
WEBSTER: ( smiling ) But your luck just ran out.
WEBSTER: Drop the gun and give me back the case, or we're gonna have ourselves some barbecued Benedict.
WEBSTER: Well, I guess this is goodbye.
JULIUS: Wait a minute.
JULIUS: You've forgotten something.
WEBSTER: I don't think so.
JULIUS: The third rule in a crisis
WEBSTER: The third rule?
JULIUS: ( smiling )
VINCE: ( even more amazed ) ( can't believe it ) Duck? You are developing real style, Julius.
JULIUS: drapes his arm around Vince as they walk towards the unharmed attache case full of money.
JULIUS: You came back for me.
VINCE: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
JULIUS: I always knew you would.
VINCE: You're my brother, right? We're family, right?
JULIUS: Thank you, Vincent.
VINCE: ( with a gleam ) We're a rich family, right?
JULIUS: We're a good family. I'm sorry, Vince, but we have to return the
VINCE: Return the money?!? Are you nuts?!? This is dirty money, Julius it doesn't belong to better you'll feel when it's out of our lives
JULIUS: Including us think how much better you'll feel when it's out of our lives
VINCE: ( almost jumping I won't I won't feel one bit better I'll never feel better, not if I live to be. oh no
PAINTER: I think you'd better read this.
VINCE: Linda, I
LINDA: What the hell are you doing here?
VINCE: You wouldn't answer my calls or my letters, so I. Look, I made a terrible mistake and I apologize and I want to tell you that I'm a changed man.
LINDA: How did you get in here?
VINCE: Well, there was a window in the back that
LINDA: ( resigned again )
VINCE: All I ask is for another chance. I know I probably don't deserve it, but
LINDA: You're right, you don't deserve
ROSES: Dozens of them everywhere all over her apartment beautifully arranged in gorgeous vases.
ON LINDA: Taking it all in, her resistance melting. She turns, flings open the door, looks out no sign of Vince. until CAMERA TILTS DOWN to reveal Vince on his knees.
VINCE: I had to break into your apartment, Vince, they're beautiful.
LINDA: Vince, they're beautiful.
VINCE: So, do you forgive me?
LINDA: Yes, but.
VINCE: Vince looks at her, understands.
VINCE: You mean, that matter we talked about once and never really What matter is that?
LINDA: ( feigning What matter is that?
VINCE: The matter of you and me living What about it?
LINDA: ( haltingly ) What about it?
VINCE: Your place or mine?
VINCE: ( into phone ) What do we do? Most people on this planet cause problems the Benedict Corporation solves them. We're a consulting firm a think-tank sort of like the Rand Corporation only smarter! ( a beat ) Tuesday at three. See you then.
JULIUS: Look at this, Vince proposals from the Red Cross, UNICEF, the World Health Organization we should only have clients who do humanitarian work.
VINCE: Just as long as they pay we're not running a charity, you know.
VINCE: Come in!
THE DOOR: As it opens, revealing Mary Anne Benedict, not looking at all like the gardener they met in Whispering Pines.
MARY ANNE: Clearly overwhelmed, struggles to find the appropriate
MARY ANNE: It's so incredible I'm not even sure which one of you is which.
MARY ANNE: You see, I didn't believe you, I mean who would believe a story like your story crazy They lied to me all these years. And they lied to you. But you found one another . And you found me. Please God one of you say something.
VINCE: ( softly )
JULIUS: ( softly )
VINCE: ( anguished wail )
MOMMA!: They both run to Mary Anne and hug her for all she's worth. They're laughing, crying, holding each other. Slowly, we.
JULIUS: Watching them. Now there are tears on his face, too. He goes to them, gently puts his arms around them, lifts them both up in to the air, cradling them. They're laughing. They're crying. They're holding each No words are necessary. 178 OMITTED 178 180 180 FADE IN: 181 CLOSE ON WERNER 181 Smiling happily. PULL BACK to reveal we are
MARY ANNE: I just can't get over how alike they are.
JULIUS: They kepp you up all night again, Sceaming in stereo.
VINCE: Sceaming in stereo.
JULIUS: ( to baby #1 ) I think you need your diaper ( to baby #2 ) What a surprise so do you. ( checks his babies ) Not you, too It's not a competition, you know.
VINCE: ( checks his babies ) Not you, too It's not a competition, you know.
JULIUS: Just think what we'd be like if we'd been raised together.
VINCE: Now that's a scary thought.
THE END: Writers : William Osborne William Davies Timothy Harris Hershel Weingrod William Goldman
