PEARL HARBOR: Randall Wallace
EARLY DRAFT: Out of BLACK we hear the sound of an airplane roaring by.
THE PLANE: is a biplane, racing over a field lush with young plants. It releases a trail of crop spray, and climbs again. Up into a crystalline blue sky where sunshine pours like honey over family farms stretching to the horizon. Maybe it's not heaven, maybe it's just Tennessee. But as long as there's been an America, men have fought and died for this place as volunteers. Far off, but visible from the plane is
RAFE: Bandits at 2 o'clock.
DANNY: Power dive! They buzz their lips in a flying noise and work the controls, Rafe's bare feet on one pedal, Danny's on the other.
RAFE: It's Germans!
DANNY: Kill the bastards! Rafe looks at Danny in shock then they both laugh and go right back into their game, manufacturing their own machine gun and engine sounds.
RAFE: Good shooting, Danny!
DANNY: Good shooting, Rafe!
RAFE: Land of the free.
DANNY: Home of the brave!
RAFE: There's another one! Their vocal motors roar again. But a man's hand grabs Danny by the straps of his overalls and jerks him from the cockpit. It's Danny's FATHER and he's a fearsome sight; drunk, his hair uncombed, his face unshaven, his teeth those still left are rotting. He's also missing an arm; but the one that's left is potent, and he's shaking Danny with it.
DANNY'S FATHER: You no count boy! Johnson come lookin', said he'd pay a dime for you to shovel his pig shed, and I can't find you no Daddy, I told you I was comin' here. His father slaps him off his feet. Rafe is so horrified he can't get a sound out. Danny isn't even surprised. But when his father snatches him up again, twisting the overall straps so tight they choke him, he struggles. It does no good; his father starts marching across the field, dragging and strangling Danny.
DANNY: Daddy, I told you I was comin' here. His father slaps him off his feet. Rafe is so horrified he can't get a sound out. Danny isn't even surprised. But when his father snatches him up again, twisting the overall straps so tight they choke him, he struggles. It does no good; his father starts marching across the field, dragging and strangling Danny.
DANNY: Da!. Dad. The father's drunken anger makes him oblivious until CRACK! The 2x4 propeller slams him across the back, knocking him to the ground and making him drop Danny. The father rolls over to see 10-year-old Rafe, holding the 2x4 like a bat.
RAFE: Let him alone! The father's eyes bulge in rage; he struggles to his feet.
DANNY: Rafe. Daddy. No! The man looks murderous, but Rafe draws back the board.
RAFE: I'll bust you open, you.German! The words ring something deep in the man's booze-broken brain. He begins to cough, convulsively; it brings a blossom of blood to his mouth. He wipes it with his hand, but blood clings to his teeth. He chokes out
DANNY'S FATHER: I fought the Germans. He looks at Danny in shame, with the realization of what he's just done. He turns and staggers away. Danny looks at Rafe a communication between boys joined by something deeper than blood. Then Danny runs off after his Daddy! Daddy! Wait. Danny catches him, takes his father's hand, and walks away with him. The crop duster we saw in the air has just landed, behind Rafe. The pilot, RAFE'S FATHER, shuts off the engine.
DANNY: Daddy! Daddy! Wait. Danny catches him, takes his father's hand, and walks away with him. The crop duster we saw in the air has just landed, behind Rafe. The pilot, RAFE'S FATHER, shuts off the engine.
RAFE'S FATHER: What's goin' on, son?
RAFE: Nothing. Danny's Dad just come to get Rafe turns back to the ramshackle plane and replaces the 2x4 propeller. His father looks toward Danny and his father, walking away, then looks at his own son.
RAFE'S FATHER: Hey, boy you wanna go up? Rafe can't believe it; he runs to the plane and hops into his father's lap. As his father cranks the engine and tucks him into the harness, Rafe says
RAFE: Daddy, sometime will you take Danny up Sure will, son. The engine races to life.and we
RAFE'S FATHER: Sure will, son. The engine races to life.and we
TRAINING CAPTAIN: McCawley! Walker! Cut that out!
RAFE: I thought this was a training flight. I'm just trying to give Danny some Not on your best day, boy! Rafe grins and guns his plane low, in the opposite direction he was moving before. Danny reacts almost instantly. leapfrogging in the opposite direction, scaring the piss out of everybody else.
DANNY: Not on your best day, boy! Rafe grins and guns his plane low, in the opposite direction he was moving before. Danny reacts almost instantly. leapfrogging in the opposite direction, scaring the piss out of everybody else.
TRAINING CAPTAIN: That's it, get into a wedge! The squadron responds, forming up into a tight V, Rafe and Danny just behind and on either side of the center.
RAFE: Didn't you say test the limits?
DANNY: Hey, you wanna test my limits, you better line up a couple dozen women on the GROUND.cause I got NO limits in the Rafe grins, loving the challenge. Then he and Danny do the leapfrogging maneuver laterally, swapping sides in the V.
TRAINING CAPTAIN: Everybody down!
TRAINING CAPTAIN: Where are McCawley and Walker?
TRAINING CAPTAIN: Aw shit.
TRAINING CAPTAIN: You know what they say. You can take the crop duster out of the country but don't put him in a P-40. Rafe banks to land, and Danny tucks in behind him. Danny has Rafe's plane in his sights.
DANNY: If I had guns I'd be chewing up your Rafe feints left, banks right, and appears behind Danny.
RAFE: If you had guns, you'd be pissin' on 'em. They're almost to the landing strip, Rafe behind Danny. But as Danny's wheels are about to touch, he guns his engine and snaps the nose of his plane straight up. THE OTHER PILOTS stop laughing.
ANTHONY: He's doing an inside loop!
TRAINING CAPTAIN: Aw, shit. Danny pulls it off, just barely making a full circle to come in behind Rafe and bounce to a stop on the runway.
DANNY: Danny taxis his plane over to join the others. He's grinning as he slides back his cockpit cover; then
DANNY: Where's Rafe? Red, tall with flaming orange hair, tips his chin toward the air. Seeing Rafe's plane still in the air, Danny starts to refasten his harness.
TRAINING CAPTAIN: You're down, Walker! That's an order!
DANNY: What about him?
TRAINING CAPTAIN: He's not taking my orders anymore. Danny's just about to ask what the hell that means, when he notices Rafe climbing in a deliberate spiral.
DANNY: He's gonna do it.
BILLY: Do what?
DANNY: ( beat ) Aw, shit. Aw shit shit shit. RAFE'S PLANE reaches two thousand feet, just a speck above them, and seems to pause in the air.
DANNY: I shouldn't'a done an inside loop. I shouldn't'a done an inside loop.
BILLY: Cause now he's gonna do an outside loop.
DANNY: Cause now he's gonna do an outside loop.
TRAINING CAPTAIN: Aw shit. Aw shit shit shit. Anthony and Billy join in, like an involuntary chant
RED: Aw sh- sh- sh- sh-
BILLY: You can do it, Rafe. You can do it. The P-40, hurtling toward the ground at nauseating speed, snaps into a half roll, streaking upside down over the runway. Rafe hangs inverted in his flight harness, the asphalt of the runway shooting past, ten feet beyond his He pushes the plane into a climb, his cockpit on the outside of the circle. The plane reaches the top of its arc, and almost stalls; but Rafe noses it over again, toward the earth, only this time he has very little altitude. The plane hurtles down, still with it belly on the inside of the And makes it full circle. Rafe's head now is barely a foot off the asphalt as the plane shoots past, still inverted. THE OTHER PILOTS burst into cheers. RAFE, IN HIS COCKPIT permits himself a smile. He lands, and the guys run out to meet him.all except for the Training Captain, who stands there shaking his head. Danny jumps on the wing, as Rafe stops and slides back his canopy. Danny grabs him by the harness and shakes him.
RED: You can do it, Rafe. You can do it. The P-40, hurtling toward the ground at nauseating speed, snaps into a half roll, streaking upside down over the runway. Rafe hangs inverted in his flight harness, the asphalt of the runway shooting past, ten feet beyond his He pushes the plane into a climb, his cockpit on the outside of the circle. The plane reaches the top of its arc, and almost stalls; but Rafe noses it over again, toward the earth, only this time he has very little altitude. The plane hurtles down, still with it belly on the inside of the And makes it full circle. Rafe's head now is barely a foot off the asphalt as the plane shoots past, still inverted. THE OTHER PILOTS burst into cheers. RAFE, IN HIS COCKPIT permits himself a smile. He lands, and the guys run out to meet him.all except for the Training Captain, who stands there shaking his head. Danny jumps on the wing, as Rafe stops and slides back his canopy. Danny grabs him by the harness and shakes him.
DANNY: You can do it, Rafe. You can do it. The P-40, hurtling toward the ground at nauseating speed, snaps into a half roll, streaking upside down over the runway. Rafe hangs inverted in his flight harness, the asphalt of the runway shooting past, ten feet beyond his He pushes the plane into a climb, his cockpit on the outside of the circle. The plane reaches the top of its arc, and almost stalls; but Rafe noses it over again, toward the earth, only this time he has very little altitude. The plane hurtles down, still with it belly on the inside of the And makes it full circle. Rafe's head now is barely a foot off the asphalt as the plane shoots past, still inverted. THE OTHER PILOTS burst into cheers. RAFE, IN HIS COCKPIT permits himself a smile. He lands, and the guys run out to meet him.all except for the Training Captain, who stands there shaking his head. Danny jumps on the wing, as Rafe stops and slides back his canopy. Danny grabs him by the harness and shakes him.
DANNY: You could've killed yourself, you stupid He dives into the cockpit, hugging Rafe.
DANNY: That was the most beautiful thing I ever INT. COLONEL DOOLITTLE'S OFFICE - DAY COLONEL JIMMY DOOLITTLE, mid-forties, is commander of the base. He's as tough as he is good in the air. And right now he's frowning at Rafe McCawley, standing at attention before There are some people who think the outside loop is reckless and How could it be irresponsible, Sir, if you were the first man in the world to do Don't get smart with me, son.
DOOLITTLE: There are some people who think the outside loop is reckless and How could it be irresponsible, Sir, if you were the first man in the world to do Don't get smart with me, son.
RAFE: How could it be irresponsible, Sir, if you were the first man in the world to do Don't get smart with me, son.
DOOLITTLE: Don't get smart with me, son.
RAFE: Never, Sir. I just meant it's dangerous only for the kind of pilot who wants to show off, rather than inspire the other pilots in his unit. And all you've done for me, Sir, working out the transfer, I did it to say thanks. To honor you, Sir. What the French call a "homage."
DOOLITTLE: That's bullshit, son. But it's really good bullshit.
RAFE: Thank you, Sir. Doolittle stands, moves around his desk, and shakes Rafe's Good luck over there McCawley. I admire your decision.
DOOLITTLE: Good luck over there McCawley. I admire your decision.
RAFE: Thank you, Sir.
BILLY: You good-lookin' sumbitch.don't you EVER die!
ANTHONY: That's your line for tonight, ya know.
BILLY: What, good-lookin' sumbitch?
ANTHONY: No, numbnuts, die. You get your nurse alone, you look her in the eye, and say, "Baby, they're training me for war, and I don't know what'll happen. But if I die tomorrow, I wanna know that we lived all we could tonight." I've never known it to fail. Red finishes brushing his teeth at the sink beside them.
RED: He's n-never known it to work, either. The guys head out laughing, running into Rafe coming in.
DANNY: Doolittle didn't kill you? Attaboy! Rafe catches Danny's arm.
RAFE: Danny, there's something I gotta tell EXT. NEW JERSEY BARRACKS - NIGHT Rafe and Danny are walking on the parade ground; the other guys are already on the bus that will take them into town. Danny's upset by what Rafe just told him.
DANNY: How could you do this?
RAFE: The Colonel helped me work it out.
DANNY: I don't mean how'd you do the paperwork, I mean how the hell did you do it without letting me in on it?
RAFE: I'm sorry, Danny, but they're only accepting the best pilots.
DANNY: Don't make this a joke, Rafe. You're talking about war, and I know what war does to people.
RAFE: Danny, you know how many times I saw you come to school with a black eye or a busted nose, and couldn't do a thing about it for you, or for your mother. or your father, with his lungs scorched out with mustard gas, and more left of his lungs than there was of his spirit? You've made your sacrifice, Danny. It's time I made mine.
BILLY: ( from the bus ) The nurses are waiting!
RAFE: Let's go.
DANNY: Nah, you go on.
RAFE: I have to talk to Evelyn. And I want you to meet her.
DANNY: Some other time. I don't feel like a Danny walks away. The bus driver's ready to leave, and Red is honking the horn for Rafe to come. Rafe reluctantly lets Danny go, and heads for the bus, where the pilots are Nurses! Nurses! Nurses!
PILOTS VOICE: Nurses! Nurses! Nurses!
BETTY: Do you have trouble with your boobs in the uniform?
BARBARA: You mean hiding them?
BETTY: Hide them? On a date with pilots? I'm talking about how you make them show! SANDRA, another nurse, speaks up.
SANDRA: Loan 'em to me, I'll make 'em show.
BETTY: The boobs or the pilots? The girls laugh and shove each others' knees; it's a party wherever they go. But Evelyn can't keep her mind on the frivolity. She looks out the window and her thoughts drift We'll ask Evelyn. Evelyn? Evelyn!
BARBARA: We'll ask Evelyn. Evelyn? Evelyn!
BETTY: Ooo, she's thinking of her date! Come on, you've been dating a pilot. We want to know what we can expect. Suddenly all the girlish faces are looking at Evelyn.
EVELYN: I've been dating one pilot. And only for a few weeks. But I know he's different from all the others. Sandra throws up her arms and swoons onto her friends.
SANDRA: True love!.
BETTY: Morphine, give her morphine!
BARBARA: Give her an enema.
EVELYN: But I do have a warning for you. There's one line you all need to know, and you're likely to hear it from any man in a uniform. It goes like this: "Honey, Baby. We never know what's gonna happen, and I may die tomorrow.so, let's live all we can tonight." A silence among the nurses.
BARBARA: I tell you. Any one of those arrogant, leather-jacketed, slick-lookin' flyboys tries that line on me.he's gonna get anything he wants. As the nurses laugh
EVELYN: Stick with me, I'll find you somebody Betty spot's Rafe.
BETTY: I'll take that one.
EVELYN: He's taken. But come on, I'll introduce They move to Rafe; he crosses the platform to meet them, his eyes holding Evelyn.
RAFE: Hello, Lieutenant. Good to see you.
EVELYN: You too, Lieutenant. Betty clears her throat.
EVELYN: Oh, this is Betty.
RAFE: Nice to meet you, Betty. He draws his hand from behind his back; he's holding two roses. He hands one to Evelyn and the second to Betty.
RAFE: Danny would'a brought this. He escorts them along the platform.
EVELYN: Danny's not coming?
RAFE: No, he.got some news today. He'll be okay, he just didn't feel like coming I was hoping to meet him.
EVELYN: I was hoping to meet him.
BETTY: I was hoping to meet him.
RAFE: We'll just have to find a substitute, won't we? Betty stops, and faces Rafe.
BETTY: I just want to tell you one thing. If you're thinking this might be your last night on earth?. I'm prepared to make it meaningful. Very meaningful.
EVELYN: At ease, Betty!
RED: He, I'm R-Red. Red S-Strange.
BETTY: You know the football player, Red G- Grange? Well the guys called me R-Red, cause you know, I'm red.and they thought I was strange, so, you know, Red G-Grange, Red Str-Strange.
RED: You know the football player, Red G- Grange? Well the guys called me R-Red, cause you know, I'm red.and they thought I was strange, so, you know, Red G-Grange, Red Str-Strange.
BETTY: But.they called you Strange? Because of Red Grange? I don't get it. Was Red Grange strange?
RED: How would I know. Beside her beer is an open ketchup bottle; he picks it up and swigs from that. Rafe and Evelyn see this, and try to keep from laughing.
BETTY: Do you always stutter?
RED: Only when I'm n-n-n-
BETTY: Yeah. But if I have to get something out, I c-can always s-s-s-
RED: Yeah. But if I have to get something out, I c-can always s-s-s-
SIIING!: She covers his hand with hers.
BETTY: Don't be nervous. Red looks at Betty with love in his eyes. Under the table, Rafe and Evelyn join hands too.
EVELYN: There shipping us out. Hawaii. The Germans are overrunning Europe, and we're sent to paradise. How about you? Have you heard anything? He hesitates; then Evelyn is distracted by the conversation beside them, between Barbara and Billy.
BILLY: You're a very special woman, and.well baby, they're training me for war, and we don't know what happens tomorrow. So we gotta make tonight special. Barbara shoots a look at Evelyn, before she answers.
BARBARA: I hope you can back that up, flyboy. Cause you're not ever gonna forget She takes him by the hand and pulls him to his feet. They start dancing, sexy movements that won't stop till they've been in bed. Rafe pulls Evelyn to her feet, and leads her through the dancers, outside.
EVELYN: Whatever you're trying to tell me isn't good, is it. Or it wouldn't be so hard to say.
RAFE: The only reason it's hard to say is that I keep thinking I don't have the right to say it. But I've got to because it's true. I love you. That must surprise you.
EVELYN: It surprises me that I'm not the only one on this balcony who feels that way. The power of hearing this from each other grips them both.
RAFE: There's one thing I have to say. I'm going away.
EVELYN: We're all going away.
RAFE: I'm going to the war. The real war. Hitler's taken Europe. The Brits are hanging on by their fingernails, and If they lose, there'll be more people killed than anybody can imagine. And not just there, but here.
EVELYN: But you're in the U.S. Army, how could Colonel Doolittle pulled the strings, and put me on loan to the R.A.F. They need pilots, and we need experience. I leave You waited til tonight to tell me?
RAFE: Colonel Doolittle pulled the strings, and put me on loan to the R.A.F. They need pilots, and we need experience. I leave You waited til tonight to tell me?
EVELYN: You waited til tonight to tell me?
RAFE: I had to tell you in person. Because there's something else I need to say. He studies her face, burning it into his memory.
RAFE: Evelyn.you know the line let's make tonight memorable. What I feel about you makes it impossible for me to say something like that. If I don't come back, I don't want to saddle you with regret and sadness you'll carry the rest of your life.
EVELYN: I don't know if you can choose that, Maybe not. But I need you to know. I love you. And I will come back. I'll find a way. And then we'll get a chance to know if what I felt the first moment I saw you, and every minute since then, is Do one thing for me, before you go. She takes his hand and leads him inside.
RAFE: Maybe not. But I need you to know. I love you. And I will come back. I'll find a way. And then we'll get a chance to know if what I felt the first moment I saw you, and every minute since then, is Do one thing for me, before you go. She takes his hand and leads him inside.
EVELYN: Do one thing for me, before you go. She takes his hand and leads him inside.
CONDUCTOR'S VOICE: All aboard! Rafe glances once more toward the revolving doors from the station that lead onto the platform.
DANNY: Didn't you say you told her not to come?
RAFE: Then why are you looking for her?
DANNY: Then why are you looking for her?
RAFE: It's a test. If I asked her to come and she came, it wouldn't tell me anything. If I tell her not to come, and she comes.then I know she loves me.
VOICE: ALL ABOARD! You're still a kid, ya know that? Take care of yourself.
ALL ABOARD!: You're still a kid, ya know that? Take care of yourself.
DANNY: You're still a kid, ya know that? Take care of yourself.
RAFE: You too. Rafe sticks his hand out to Danny. Danny knocks it away, and hugs him. Rafe steps onto the train, and it pulls away. Rafe waves. Danny waves back and smiles, but he whispers like a prayer.
DANNY: Give 'em hell, Rafe.
RAFE: Rafe McCawley, Sir. Rafe salutes as the Air Commander turns and then returns the salute, with his left arm his right arm is gone. Rafe freezes at the sight, reminded of Danny's father.
RAFE: That's me, Sir.
RAFE: If you're patching up bullet holes right here on the runway, maybe we should skip the housekeeping and get right to the Are all the Yanks as anxious as you are to get yourself killed, Lieutenant?
RAFE: Not anxious to die, Sir, anxious to EXT. BASSINGBORNE AIRFIELD - BRITAIN - DAY A Spitfire sits on the runway, and it's badly mangled a string of bullet holes punched through at mid-fuselage; a shot-off chunk of wingtip; but most striking is the blood still splattered over the inside of the cockpit.
GUARD: I've died and gone to heaven. The guards lift the bar and smile at the nurses. The jeeps drive through. The nurses are loving this island paradise You know the ratio of men to women on this island? Four-thousand.to one. Barbara slides on a new pair of sunglasses with plastic palm trees glued on the sides, and calls back to the guards as the jeeps pull away
BARBARA: You know the ratio of men to women on this island? Four-thousand.to one. Barbara slides on a new pair of sunglasses with plastic palm trees glued on the sides, and calls back to the guards as the jeeps pull away
BARBARA: See ya on the beach, boys!
EVELYN: Thank you.Ensign. The guys look at each other, impressed that she could tell.
EVELYN: Thank you, but.I really want to be alone right now.
EVELYN: I'm sorry. I've got a letter to write.
EVELYN: What did you say?
EVELYN: Cold? No, I'm just thinking about a war. And maybe you should be too. They leave, shaking their heads. Evelyn picks up her pen, and writes.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT: Please be seated, gentlemen. They sit, as one.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT: Churchill and Stalin are asking me what I'm asking you: How long is America going to pretend the world is not at war?
GENERAL MARSHALL: We've increased supply shipments to them, Mr. President, and we're losing merchant vessels every day.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT: Shift in every destroyer and anti- aircraft weapon you can find.
ADMIRAL: Sir, our Pacific Fleet is already down to almost nothing.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT: Gentlemen, at this moment the nation of Hungry has a larger military then the United States. We have no choice but to draw from whatever we can.
NISHIKURA: So you join us, Admiral. Some of us thought your education at an American university would make you too weak to fight the Americans.
YAMAMOTO: If knowledge of opponents and careful calculation of danger is taken as weakness then I have misunderstood what it means to be Japanese.
NISHIKURA: The time has come to strike! Or to sit and let the Americans cut off our oil and our future. I know what you whisper to the others, Yamamoto that the Americans are strong. Yet look at their leader. He motions to OYAMA, an intelligence analyst, who opens a file and lays out pictures of Roosevelt.
OYAMA: Franklin Roosevelt. Born into great wealth. Fifteen years ago, he was stricken with polio. Now he cannot walk, or even stand without help. Photographers will not take pictures of him in his chair; Americans do not wish to know how weak their President is. Yamamoto makes a low grunt.
NISHIKURA: You have something to say, Yamamoto?
YAMAMOTO: The Council knows I have opposed fighting the Americans. No matter how great our resolve, they have resources beyond ours. If we must go to war, there is only one way deal them a blow from which it will take them years to recover. In that time we can conquer all of the Pacific, and they will have no choice but to ask for You see us as capable of such a blow?
NISHIKURA: You see us as capable of such a blow?
YAMAMOTO: The Americans themselves have made it possible. We will annihilate them in a single attack at Pearl Harbor. The members of the war council are so pleased with Yamamoto that they bow to him. Only Genda keeps his eyes raised long enough to see the sadness in Yamamoto's face.
RED: If I ain't n-never on a b-boat again, it'll be too s-soon.
BILLY: Where are the women on this Danny has stopped before the others; now all of them see that the other pilots who inhabit this air base are still in their beds, sleeping off hangovers. They wear Hawaiian shirts; they haven't shaved.
RED: They're s-still asleep! Danny pauses for a moment, then shouts
DANNY: Drop your cocks and grab your socks, boys! The terror of the skies are here! The sleeping pilots groan, and cover their heads with their They're all drunk. One guy sits up in bed, his hair pointing every direction of the compass, his tongue working as if to wipe a terrible taste from his mouth. As his feet dangle over the side of the bunk and one of them touches the floor, a sensation reaches his sotted brain; he raises that foot to look at its bottom, and finds a new tattoo, on the sole of his foot; he blinks as if trying to remember how it got there. Danny moves over to him, and dubs him with a name, COMA.
ANTHONY: They're all drunk. One guy sits up in bed, his hair pointing every direction of the compass, his tongue working as if to wipe a terrible taste from his mouth. As his feet dangle over the side of the bunk and one of them touches the floor, a sensation reaches his sotted brain; he raises that foot to look at its bottom, and finds a new tattoo, on the sole of his foot; he blinks as if trying to remember how it got there. Danny moves over to him, and dubs him with a name, COMA.
DANNY: Hey. You. Mr. Coma.
COMA: Where's that lizard?
DANNY: What lizard?
COMA: The one that slept in my mouth last What the hell happened to you guys? Coma is one of those drunks who speak as if he's always about to burp.
DANNY: What the hell happened to you guys? Coma is one of those drunks who speak as if he's always about to burp.
COMA: Ever hear of mai-tai's? Comes in a big.pot. Like.like.
RED: A m-missionary?
COMA: No, like. Coma emits a pukey, toxic burp that has Danny and his buddies wincing back from the fumes.
DANNY: This is an Air Base? Where's your squad The question soaks through to Coma's brain. His right hand points.and his left hand points.in different directions. His hands float around in the air until finally both of them are indicating the same direction, behind his back. In the bunk beyond Coma's is another drunk pilot in a Hawaiian shirt.and to judge by the shapely bronzed leg that protrudes from under his damp sheet, there's a woman with him Danny and his buddies are speechless except for Red I th-think I'm gonna like it here.
RED: I th-think I'm gonna like it here.
COMA: You guys are new?
DANNY: Mai-tai's. I got this to tell ya, about Coma's head drifts forward slowly; they think for a moment he's looking for something under the bed. Then he pukes. Danny leaps back from the splatter, and marches out of the barracks; his friends follow.
COMA: Mai-tai's. I got this to tell ya, about Coma's head drifts forward slowly; they think for a moment he's looking for something under the bed. Then he pukes. Danny leaps back from the splatter, and marches out of the barracks; his friends follow.
DANNY: Hey! What is this, the planes all bunched up like that?
MECHANIC: The brass is afraid of sabotage. This makes 'em easier to protect and easier to service.
DANNY: What about easier to hit in an air raid?
MECHANIC: Who's gonna to that? Japan is four thousand miles away. So you guys just arrived, huh?
DANNY: We got a saying here. A-low-HA! The mechanic walks off. Danny and the guys are left standing on the tarmac.
MECHANIC: We got a saying here. A-low-HA! The mechanic walks off. Danny and the guys are left standing on the tarmac.
DANNY: Well guys.I reckon there's just one thing to do.
RED: More m-mai-tai's! Coma is sitting there with them, beside Red.
COMA: Absolutely right. Everybody's having a ball, the new arrivals fitting right in with the others. Danny's a bit off to himself, lost in his own thoughts. Billy and Anthony are doing the hula to the Hawaiian music playing.
COMA: No, you guys aren't doing it right. It's in the hands. They talk story. Coma stands and starts demonstrating, explaining the gestures of his hula.
COMA: Fish swim in ocean. Happy in the Mother Sea. Girl, beautiful girl, with big jugs, walks into water.waves lapping at her thighs.
ANTHONY: I never knew those dances were so .Fish nibble at her breasts. Coma's really into his dance, his hands over enormous imaginary breasts; but as he turns toward the windows
COMA: .Fish nibble at her breasts. Coma's really into his dance, his hands over enormous imaginary breasts; but as he turns toward the windows
COMA: A more beautiful girl walks by. The guys see Evelyn passing on the other side of the street, gorgeous in the sunshine. Coma's hands start squeezing the imaginary breasts of his hula.
BILLY: Hey, isn't that Evelyn? Danny moves up to look.
DANNY: Rafe's girl, Evelyn?
COMA: You guys know her?! I gotta have an intro! Man, I'd like to Danny's hand is suddenly around Coma's larynx.
DANNY: A friend of mine's in love with her. So you don't even look not ever. Danny releases him and Coma staggers back to the table to nuzzle up to one of the straws of the mai-tai volcano. Danny looks out the window again and sees Evelyn's beautiful form disappear around the corner, on her way back to the base hospital. Danny moves back to the table, and as two burly Hawaiian waiters set another full loaded mai-tai volcano onto the center of the table, he picks up a glass and dips it full of the potent liquid. He shouts to the whole room
DANNY: I'm a better pilot than any son-of-a- bitch on this island! So I'm the one to say this! Here's to Rafe McCawley! A better pilot.and a better man.than The other pilots drink up from glasses or from straws.
OTHER PILOTS: To Rafe. Danny drains the whole glass at one chug, and slams it down onto the table. Then he blinks, puts a hand on his stomach, and frowns. Coma recognizes the look.
COMA: Uh oh. Volcanic eruption! Danny bends at the waist; his head obscured by the table.
COMA: Shit, he's puking on my feet!
RED: Well, you p-puked on his feet.
COMA: Yeah, but he was wearing shoes!
ADMIRAL KIMMEL: .transfer twelve more destroyers to Atlantic Fleet, and all the available anti-aircraft weaponry?! Washington has gone insane! Kimmel's STRATEGIC ANALYST speaks up.
STRATEGIC ANALYST: We've done what you ordered, Admiral, and war gamed the likely outcome of a Japanese attack against each of our major bases in the Pacific. Wake, Guam, Midway, the Philippines. In each case, we lose.
ADMIRAL KIMMEL: You left out Hawaii.
STRATEGIC ANALYST: Pearl Harbor can't be attacked effectively from the air. It's too shallow for an aerial torpedo attack. Pearl Harbor's safe. It's everywhere else that we're vulnerable.
ADMIRAL KIMMEL: Step up surveillance of Japanese communications. They're gonna do something somewhere. I can feel it.
GENDA: Look at the ships all grouped. Perfect And the planes! They are what is that American expression? Sitting geese?
JAPANESE OFFICER: And the planes! They are what is that American expression? Sitting geese?
YAMAMOTO: Sitting ducks.
JAPANESE OFFICER: How can they be so foolish?
YAMAMOTO: They think no one would be stupid enough to attack them at Pearl Harbor.
GENDA: Or perhaps they think no one is capable. Look at this. He moves to a diagram displayed on the wall a simple display showing water depth and ship displacement.
GENDA: Pearl Harbor's depth of only forty feet makes them feel safe. A torpedo dropped from an airplane plunges to one hundred feet before it can level off. That is a conventional torpedo. But we have been From a stand beside his diagram he takes a set of wooden fins, attached to a circular metallic band.
GENDA: Wooden fins. We are testing them EXT. JAPANESE ISLAND - DAY Yamamoto and his planners have flown to a quiet Japanese island, sunlit and pleasant. They are gathered on the shore of the island's natural harbor. Wooden targets basically huge plank barriers are sunk into the water like ships at anchor. A squadron of Japanese planes zooms overhead, taking up attack positions.
GENDA: We have chosen this place because its depth is exactly the same as Pearl Genda speaks into a field radio. A lone plane drops out of formation and goes into a low-level approach, speeding up and dropping its torpedo. BELOW THE SURFACE we see the torpedo as it plunges at two hundred miles an hour into the sunlit sea. With the wooden fins the torpedo makes a sharp dip and levels off above the sea floor. ABOVE THE SURFACE the planners see the path of the torpedo; it hits the wooden barrier with a satisfying THUNK. The planners are impressed but Yamamoto is not satisfied.
YAMAMOTO: Uncharged torpedoes have different I have arranged a live fire drill with your permission. Yamamoto nods; Genda speaks again into his radio, and another plane swoops down and drops a torpedo. Genda holds his hands to his ears, causing the others to do the same; even though they wonder at the need. The torpedo hits the barrier, and the explosion is deafening, and of shocking force; the entire barrier is blown to Of course against a ship the explosion will not be dissipated, and will have more force. The planners, nearly blown off their feet, nod as if they knew that all the time.
GENDA: I have arranged a live fire drill with your permission. Yamamoto nods; Genda speaks again into his radio, and another plane swoops down and drops a torpedo. Genda holds his hands to his ears, causing the others to do the same; even though they wonder at the need. The torpedo hits the barrier, and the explosion is deafening, and of shocking force; the entire barrier is blown to Of course against a ship the explosion will not be dissipated, and will have more force. The planners, nearly blown off their feet, nod as if they knew that all the time.
GENDA: Of course against a ship the explosion will not be dissipated, and will have more force. The planners, nearly blown off their feet, nod as if they knew that all the time.
BILLY: Are you sure they're here?
ANTHONY: If Evelyn's here, the rest are here! Red moves up beside him to frown at the mirror. His hair is plastered down and parted, his uniform's immaculate.
ANTHONY: Looking good, Red.
RED: Shut up. Red moves away, to polish his shoes.
ANTHONY: What is it with Red? I've never seen him this way.
BILLY: He's been like that all day. Hey Danny, you coming?
DANNY: Nah, I'm gonna stay here. Read. Anthony and Billy look at each other; Danny's in his bunk, and he's not reading, just staring at the ceiling.
BARBARA: Now listen, it's hands off Billy. I mean, you can put your hands on him if you want to, but then my hands will break He was that good?
BETTY: He was that good?
BARBARA: No, I was.
BILLY: Red, Peeping Tom stuff can get us court- Anthony and Billy are baffled, even more so when Red strides into the open, right outside the nurses' window. And then, Red begins to sing.
RED: Anthony and Billy are baffled, even more so when Red strides into the open, right outside the nurses' window. And then, Red begins to sing.
RED: ( singing ) Oh.Betty, Betty, Betty, you're the one for me, Betty, Betty, Betty, Betty, can't you see. Anthony and Billy look at each other, dumbfounded. The nurses move to the open windows. Red's singing is pretty good though not that good. But he doesn't stutter when he ( singing ) I'll be yours for eternity, Betty, Betty, Betty, Betty, Betty! Anthony and Billy are hysterical, trying to keep their laughter hidden. But then they see the effect this is having on the women especially on Betty. She's smitten. Red repeats the verse, really getting into it; when he finishes, Betty runs out and hugs him, as all the nurses applaud. They move off into the darkness, arm and arm. The nurses go back to their primping. Anthony and Billy are changed men. Anthony stands up; Billy's baffled. Anthony moves out and starts singing.
RED: ( singing ) I'll be yours for eternity, Betty, Betty, Betty, Betty, Betty! Anthony and Billy are hysterical, trying to keep their laughter hidden. But then they see the effect this is having on the women especially on Betty. She's smitten. Red repeats the verse, really getting into it; when he finishes, Betty runs out and hugs him, as all the nurses applaud. They move off into the darkness, arm and arm. The nurses go back to their primping. Anthony and Billy are changed men. Anthony stands up; Billy's baffled. Anthony moves out and starts singing.
ANTHONY: ( singing ) Oh Sandra.I like you.love you. He's terrible. The nurses pelt him with hairbrushes, curlers, shoes.
IAN: Leapin' Jesus!
RAFE: ( climbing down ) The struts are loose, the hydraulics are leaking, and the electrical system's shorting out in the cockpit.
IAN: Well which of those three ya want fixed?
RAFE: All of 'em. Rafe starts away, and Ian calls to his back
IAN: If ye'd wanted a bloody Cadillac ya should'a stayed in the bloody States!
RAFE: And if you don't give me a plane that can handle combat, you better start learning to speak German.
IAN: Fook ya!
RAFE: Learn English, then!
IAN: Fook ya dooble! Rafe moves to the barracks; Ian keeps the fueling hose going, and moves to help the armorers reload the guns.
BRITISH PILOT: Bloody Krauts! Night raid!
IAN: I have'na been able ta
RAFE: Crank her! Ian gives the prop a spin, and the engine roars to life.
IAN: God speed ya, laddie.
RAFE: Here they come. The clouds break, revealing a huge attack formation.
RAFE: We've got him hurt, stay on him! Rafe throws his plane into an ultra-tight, high speed turn, right between the tails of the leader German group and the noses of the second. His turn is so tight that the plane flexes with the g-force. Rafe comes out of his turn ahead of the Squad Leader, and races back up through the formation of German bombers, moving above them where their weapons and armaments are the weakest. He stitches a trail of bullets from tail to nose of the wounded lead bomber; it begins to smoke. The second Spitfire, the Squad Leader's, takes fire from the other German bombers, and shears off, heading through the smoke of the plane Rafe has on the ropes.
RAFE: We've got him going! Rafe does a half-loop and half-spin, to bring him around to face the bombers again. This time the g-force of the turn pops an oil line inside Rafe's cockpit; hot, pressurized oil begins to spray everywhere all over Rafe, his controls, and worst of all, over the inside of his cockpit glass. He wipes at the oil with his hands and that just smears it and makes it worse. His wingman sees him veering away from the bombers.and sees the German fighters moving up to meet him.
SQUAD LEADER: McCawley! Get to the clouds! Get into the clouds! RAFE, IN HIS PLANE, is flying blind.
RAFE: I can't see the clouds! His problems are just beginning; the fluid is dripping down onto his cockpit's corroded electrical wiring; the fluid causes an arc.a spark.and suddenly a fire is spreading through Rafe's plane. He grabs his fire extinguisher and triggers a cloud that snuffs the fire but fills the entire cockpit with choking smoke; between that and the smeared fluid on his glass, he can't see a thing. And the Messerschmidts are swarming over him. Rafe's wingman dives in, raking the German planes as he Rafe tries to open his cockpit cover to clear the smoke, but it's jammed; he pulls out his .45 pistol and BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! He blows out the glass; the smoke clears enough for him to take a breath and try to see. He fights the stick, but the plane won't respond. The Messerschmidts rake him again, bullets riddling his Get out of there, McCawley! Get out of Rafe's plane descends, ever faster, passing through clouds, then clear air again. The Squad Leader tries to chase and cover him, but Rafe's dropping fast, and still isn't out of the plane as the Germans dive on him again, firing. Rafe's Spitfire hits the broken fog over the water the Squad Leader loses sight of it for a moment and then the plane hits, splashing and exploding all at once. The Squad Leader winces, and ducks into the clouds as he reports on his radio.
SQUAD LEADER: Get out of there, McCawley! Get out of Rafe's plane descends, ever faster, passing through clouds, then clear air again. The Squad Leader tries to chase and cover him, but Rafe's dropping fast, and still isn't out of the plane as the Germans dive on him again, firing. Rafe's Spitfire hits the broken fog over the water the Squad Leader loses sight of it for a moment and then the plane hits, splashing and exploding all at once. The Squad Leader winces, and ducks into the clouds as he reports on his radio.
SQUAD LEADER: McCawley down. No 'chute.
WHITE BOXER: You hit hard for a cook. The black guy rushes the white guy, only to catch a right cross that wobbles his knees and makes him stagger, with a fresh cut over his right eye. The white guy now rushes in, and the black guy ( his name is DORIE MILLER ) throws an upper cut that drops his opponent like a sack of rocks. The sailors cheer wildly. Dorie steps back, and rubs his glove across his brow. It's really bleeding now.
BARBARA: Let's get into civvies and find a bar.
MARTHA: Right after church?
BARBARA: You've gotta sin some, to get forgiveness. Come with us, Evelyn. You need some sin.
EVELYN: I've got to write some requisitions. We're undersupplied with morphine.
BETTY: Morphine? We've been here a month and nobody's had worse than a sunburn. Evelyn smiles softly and walks toward the base hospital.
BETTY: I wish she could forget him.
BARBARA: You don't forget love, Honey. Not ever.
EVELYN: Can I help you, sailor? As Dorie turns, she sees the cut on his head, closed only with a band-aid; it's dripping blood down his T-shirt.
DORIE: 'Scuse me, 'Mam. All the ship's doctors is golfing, and I couldn't find nobody to look at this.
EVELYN: Our doctor's gone too.
DORIE: Sorry to trouble you.
EVELYN: Wait, let me look at that. You better come in here.
EVELYN: How'd you get this?
DORIE: He says it without pride. She puts down the basin.
EVELYN: He says it without pride. She puts down the basin.
DORIE: He says it without pride. She puts down the basin.
EVELYN: What's your name?
DORIE: Dorie Miller, 'Mam.
EVELYN: I'm Evelyn. And I'm just a nurse. But I'm not playing golf, and that cut needs sewing, or else it's gonna make a big lumpy scar. Whatta ya say?
EVELYN: How often you fight like this?
DORIE: Every other Sunday. I'm heavyweight champion of the West Virginia.
EVELYN: What do you get for winning?
DORIE: She hands him a mirror. He studies her work.
DORIE: No doctor would'a give me that good. She walks him to the door.
DORIE: Thank you, 'Mam.
EVELYN: Tell me something, Dorie. A man as big as you and smart too, you knew where to come when your ship couldn't help do you still have to fight with your fists to get respect?
DORIE: I left my Mama and joined the Navy to be a man. They made me a cook and not even that, really I clean up after the other sailors eat. I shine the officer's shoes. In two years, they've never even let me fire a gun. Now Evelyn understands.
EVELYN: You take care, Dorie.
DORIE: You too, 'Mam.
EVELYN: She moves toward him, and he draws near her, walking slowly. And then she sees his face. It's Danny. His face as sad as death itself. And even before he tells her, she knows.
DANNY: Lieutenant. I'm Danny Walker. I'm Rafe McCawley's best friend.
EVELYN: Were. Isn't that what you mean? Were. Because he's dead, isn't he? And that's why you've come.
DANNY: Before Rafe left, he asked me to be the one to tell you, if it happened.
EVELYN: He told me about you. That he had no other friend like you.
DANNY: Rafe's folks had a crop dusting business, owned their own planes. Real straight, frugal. My father was the town drunk. Went to sleep one night on the railroad tracks and was still there when the Dawn Express came along. Rafe and I were the only ones at the funeral. He took me back to his house, and I never left.
EVELYN: You were more like brothers.
DANNY: I taught him to drink beer. He taught me how to fly.
EVELYN: He said you're the only one he ever saw who was better in the air than him.
DANNY: .He said that? Evelyn nods, still staring away from Danny. This pierces Danny; he looks away, struggling not to let the emotions pull him completely under.
DANNY: Look, uh.Rafe's dad.he wrote me with the news, and it took me a couple of days to work up the guts to come here and tell you. I'm not as brave as Rafe, or as noble. But if there's anything I can ever do to help you let me know, okay? She stares into the distance. He stands and puts his hand on top of hers, as much for his comfort as for hers.
DANNY: I understand why Rafe loved you. You're as strong as he was. Since she's still not looking at him, he starts to move away. When he reaches the turn in the path, he looks back, and sees her figure in the gathering darkness. She's begun to break down; and as he watches, her whole body starts convulsing, and she doubles up in shattering grief. Danny can't just stand there; he moves back to her, and puts a hand on her shoulder. He sits beside her again, and suddenly she turns to him and sobs upon him. Danny wraps her gently in his arms, and then he breaks down, having found the first place he can truly grieve.
YAMAMOTO: Everything real except the fact that no one is shooting back at us.
GENDA: If we achieve surprise, they will offer little resistance.
YAMAMOTO: Set up teams of radio operators to send out messages the Americans will intercept, concerning every potential American target in the Pacific. Include Hawaii the clutter will be more confusing that way.
GENDA: Brilliant, Admiral.
YAMAMOTO: A brilliant man would find a way not to fight a war. He looks out at the planes roaring into his practice harbor at top speed.
AIDE: Mr. President, we've received a message from the Argentinian ambassador to Japan. His sources tell him the Japanese are assembling their fleet to attack us.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT: We're picking up warnings for every American base in the Pacific. Does this ambassador know the target?
AIDE: Not for sure. But he thinks it's Pearl Tell the Pentagon. The Aide leaves quickly and Roosevelt starts to get out of bed; his valet comes to help him.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT: Tell the Pentagon. The Aide leaves quickly and Roosevelt starts to get out of bed; his valet comes to help him.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT: No, George, I need the practice, in case there's a fire. Roosevelt drags himself out of bed, crawling toward the bathroom, his powerful arms dragging his lifeless legs.
ADMIRAL: The attack seems inevitable. The question is where? The way to answer that question is to ask: if we were the Japanese, how would we do it? He nods to a VICE ADMIRAL, who stands over the map.
VICE ADMIRAL: Between America and the Far East are the sea lanes where the winds and the currents make the best route for shipping. Far above is the northern route, between Canada and Russia. Between these two is something they call the Vacant Sea. If I were the Japs, I'd send a task force there. You could hide the entire land mass of Asia in the Vacant Sea, and nobody would know.
ADMIRAL: So they pop out and attack where?
VICE ADMIRAL: That's the problem, Admiral. They could hit anywhere they want. Nobody has any solution.
DENTAL ASSISTANT: Dr. Takanawa, you have a call from Tokyo.
DENTIST: Please excuse me. Just relax. Leaving his patient with a mouth full of instruments, the Dentist moves to his outer office, which looks directly out over Pearl Harbor. He speaks in Japanese.
DENTIST: Takanawa. Yes?. He seems confused by the call, but he responds by looking out over the harbor, then saying into the receiver
DENTIST: Yes, they are all.no wait, I see the big one moving. The one that's flat on top, what do they call it?.
LISTENER: Here's something, over the line from He switches on the recording equipment and looks to the TRACER, sitting at a battery of equipment.
TRACER: It's connected to a local dentist. His office is beside Pearl Harbor.
INTELLIGENCE SUPERVISOR: This dentist, is he a spy?
LISTENER: Sounds too innocent. His accent is from the old country. Somebody official- sounding calls, he thinks it's discourteous not to respond.
AIDE: Sir, we just had an intelligence intercept. Someone from Tokyo called a local dentist whose office looks over Pearl. They wanted to know the exact location of the ships.
ADMIRAL KIMMEL: Someone from Tokyo asks a dentist how the ships are sitting. What are we supposed to do about that?
AIDE: I.don't know, Sir. But it just seemed Have intelligence keep monitoring him. The Admiral sinks back into the chair.
ADMIRAL KIMMEL: Have intelligence keep monitoring him. The Admiral sinks back into the chair.
PHOTOGRAPHER: Closer, ladies! Closer! Now smile!. Great! Next week I'll show you a print and you can order your Pictures of He hustles off. Betty hands out picnic baskets.
BETTY: Barbara, here's yours.and Evelyn, here you are. Evelyn opens her basket, and finds a lei of Hawaiian flowers stuffed in the top. Betty scoots over and puts the flowers around Evelyn's neck.
BETTY: It's been a month and you haven't smiled. We just want you to know we love you. Evelyn's touched but before she can react two P-40's zoom out of the skies, wings clipping the tops of the palm trees as they blast over head.
BARBARA: What is it with nurses and pilots?
COLONEL: You're Walker, right?
DANNY: Yes Sir.
COLONEL: That was a nice little stunt you pulled, buzzing the base.
DANNY: You liked that?
COLONEL: Oh yeah. I liked it so much I'm cutting you out of the squadron.
DANNY: I don't buy that hot dog shit. So you and your buddies are gonna transfer your planes up to Haleiwa.
COLONEL: I don't buy that hot dog shit. So you and your buddies are gonna transfer your planes up to Haleiwa.
DANNY: You'll love it. No base, no bars, just lots of sun and aircraft maintenance.
COLONEL: You'll love it. No base, no bars, just lots of sun and aircraft maintenance.
DANNY: Sir, I
COLONEL: Too late for apologies, Walker.
DANNY: I wasn't gonna apologize, Sir. I was just gonna say it was worth it to feel like a real pilot again, even if it was only for five seconds. The Colonel glares at him and stalks away.
DANNY: How's everything?
EVELYN: We got some soldiers in traction from a jeep accident, but it's quiet. Except for the occasional fighter plane buzzing That might not have been such a good idea. They're making us fly out of a half-paved airfield. The real punishment is that I won't be back to the barracks till it's too late for dinner or coffee. So I guess it's goodbye for awhile.
DANNY: That might not have been such a good idea. They're making us fly out of a half-paved airfield. The real punishment is that I won't be back to the barracks till it's too late for dinner or coffee. So I guess it's goodbye for awhile.
EVELYN: I was just thinking that war is a series of goodbyes. Do you think that's why we're meeting. To help us say goodbye to I swore not to talk about him tonight, but there's all this stuff I think I ought to tell you, that he didn't get a chance to. Rafe was.he was lonely. He had such high expectations of himself that he always felt empty. The week he met you he told me he felt his heart had always lived in winter, and for the first time in his life he has seen the spring. He's been lost in his own thoughts of Rafe; now he notices the tears welling up in her eyes.
DANNY: I swore not to talk about him tonight, but there's all this stuff I think I ought to tell you, that he didn't get a chance to. Rafe was.he was lonely. He had such high expectations of himself that he always felt empty. The week he met you he told me he felt his heart had always lived in winter, and for the first time in his life he has seen the spring. He's been lost in his own thoughts of Rafe; now he notices the tears welling up in her eyes.
DANNY: He told me he didn't want to leave me with regret. Now that's all I have.
EVELYN: He told me he didn't want to leave me with regret. Now that's all I have.
DANNY: Hey, have you seen Pearl Harbor at night?
EVELYN: From the air?
DANNY: From the air?
EVELYN: So beautiful!
DANNY: Hang on. He spins the plane in an easy half turn, inverting their heads above Pearl Harbor, gorgeous in the moonlight, the battleships aglow, the moon reflected in the peaceful water, embraced by the island of Oahu.
EVELYN: I didn't realize until tonight that I've stopped wanting to live. She turns in his lap, and looks at him. Their eyes connect. Tentatively, almost reluctantly, they kiss.
EVELYN'S VOICE: Dearest Rafe IN SUBLIMINAL FLASHBACK, RAFE'S SPITFIRE, crippled and trailing smoke, passing through a patch of cloud as Rafe hurls himself from the cockpit and jerks the ripcord of his IN THE PRESENT.Rafe's face winces with the memory, and he rivets his eyes on Evelyn, as if to force himself to know that this moment is real. SUBLIMINAL FLASHBACK.RAFE LANDS IN THE WATER, and the shock of its coldness travels up his body faster than his body sinks into the water. He's cloaked in the fog; his parachute, pushed by the wind, is pulling him along face down. He fights with the straps, flips himself over, and pulls the release. But he's still in desperate trouble; in his flying clothes, his heavy leather jacket soaking with sea-water, he's going down; his body sinks beneath the surface.
EVELYN'S VOICE: .Every sunset. IN THE PRESENT, Rafe's chest trembles. Is it from the memory of the frozen water, from the emotion of seeing Evelyn again or both? SUBLIMINAL FLASHBACKS Below the surface of the North Sea, Rafe's body drifts, but he fights his way back up.he kicks off his shoes, sheds the jacket, strips off his pants and starts tying the cuffs into knots. Then, in a CUT, he is floating in the water, his pants turned into a makeshift life preserver, his body shaking convulsively from the cold. Then in another CUT we see him after he's been in the water for so long that his body no longer trembles; he's lost consciousness. He has no strength, no will to live. His face settles into the water.his body slips from his preserver, and drifts beneath the surface.
EVELYN'S VOICE: .gather it's heat into my heart, and send it to you. IN FLASHBACK, Rafe beneath the surface. His eyes come open. From his POV beneath the water, he sees something above the surface. It's only in his mind, but that makes it no less real.an orange glow, the warmth of the sunset, and her face above the surface. His limbs come to life, and he fights his way up, breaking the surface. The whole sea around him is dark and empty, but he grabs his makeshift preserver and holds on for dear life.and for Evelyn. IN THE PRESENT Rafe stares through the window, at Evelyn, but he can't go in. He backs away from the window.
MESSAGE BOY: Daniel Walker?. Danny rises from his bunk and accepts the telegram. As the message boy leaves, Danny reads. The news he learns stuns EXT. BENCH - OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL - NIGHT Rafe is still lost in thought. He hears steps running up and sees Danny who spots him at the same moment.
DANNY: INT. MILITARY BASE HOSPITAL - NIGHT Evelyn puts away the calender.
RAFE: She's trembling, shaking. He lifts her to her feet, and moves her to the bench.
RAFE: I sent telegrams, I guess the military traffic held them up.
EVELYN: Why were you sitting here, instead of.
RAFE: I saw you, I couldn't go in, I.just stood there wondering if you knew. You looked.sad, and I had to sit down a How did you?.
EVELYN: How did you?.
RAFE: .Survive? I jumped in a patch of fog, and nobody could see me. I hit the water hard. And it was so.cold. He looks toward the horizon, when the last light of day fades to black. There's something he thinks about saying, and doesn't. Then.
RAFE: I don't know how long I was in the water. A Norwegian freighter picked me up. They were headed to Spain. They docked in La Rota, right beside a German ship, and told me to stay hidden below. I was afraid they'd turn me in, so I stole some clothes, jumped ship, and found a church, where the priest contacted the resistance, and got me on a freighter to New York. He looks at her, then looks down again.
RAFE: I called my folks, then Colonel Doolittle. The Colonel sent a man to pick me up. They wanted to debrief me. I told the Colonel I needed to see somebody first, and he had a supply flight heading out in an hour. I've done a lot of talking. You haven't said anything.
EVELYN: I'm just.so amazed, so glad to know that you're okay. You are okay, aren't Nothing that won't heal. I guess. At these words, she looks at him for a long, long moment.
RAFE: Nothing that won't heal. I guess. At these words, she looks at him for a long, long moment.
EVELYN: It's been.so different, being so sure you were dead.
RAFE: I'm so sorry for what you must've gone through, but I'm back. He sees the troubled look on her face.
RAFE: Maybe I've assumed too much. Has something changed? I'm afraid to ask what. And I'm afraid not to. Have you fallen in love? She nods; she can't even say it. Rafe's dying inside.
RAFE: It's all right. Danny always said I see things with my emotions instead of my It's not your fault, Rafe. The letter I wrote you, they
EVELYN: It's not your fault, Rafe. The letter I wrote you, they
RAFE: Don't worry about that. Guys away from home, lonely, good-hearted women try to cheer them up.
EVELYN: It's not that I didn't mean everything I wrote. It's just that I thought you were dead. And now Danny runs up, through the darkness.
DANNY: You're alive! Rafe and Danny stare at each other; Danny hesitates, looking from Rafe to Evelyn, wondering what they've said. Then Rafe looks at Evelyn, and picks up the look on her face. In that moment he puts it all together.
RAFE: Aw, God. Oh my God. Danny's speechless, and for a moment Evelyn is too.
EVELYN: He puts up a hand, to silence her, and walks away suddenly. Evelyn and Danny are left frozen.
SUBLIMINAL FLASHBACK: Rafe is in the water of the North Sea; he seems dead, but his makeshift preserver is keeping his face above the surface. Something slides through the water and stops beside him; it's a dinghy, and behind it is a trawler. Hands grab Rafe and drag him onto the dinghy. In a QUICK CUT, Rafe's body is laid out on the deck of the trawler. The crewmen think he's dead. His body is stiff, his lips white; and they say so, in Norwegian. But one of the other crewmen notices a quiver in his eyelid, then quickly covers Rafe with his on wool peacoat and presses back an eyelid to see his pupils. Rafe's white lips move. The crewmen realize he's trying to say something. And Rafe does utter something, barely audible; something the Norwegian crewmen don't understand.
RAFE: IN THE PRESENT Rafe struggles to bury that memory so far that he'll never feel it again.
DANNY: Don't worry. I'll find him. He hugs her; their embrace earnest yet tingled with guilt, and Danny leave quickly. Betty steps out of the nurses' quarters and hands Evelyn a telegram.
BETTY: This came while you were gone. Evelyn knows it's the telegram from Rafe, to tell her he's alive. Without opening it, she begins to cry, and hurries away from the barracks so the other nurses won't see.
DANNY: You'd always go sit in a plane whenever you were upset.
RAFE: Upset? Why should I be upset?
DANNY: Let's go get a drink. Unless you're scared to talk about it. CLOSE - A Mai-Tai volcano clunks onto a table.
DANNY: Drink up. Then we'll talk. Rafe takes the challenge, and takes a long pull on one of the straws. Red, Anthony, Billy, and several others enter the They rush the table.
ANTHONY: They rush the table.
RAFE: They'll go under you because their planes are faster, then they run so you can't catch 'em. But then they'll come around and take you from behind like some Americans will. The last words bring the group to silence. The other guys drift away, to give them room.
RAFE: Why be sorry? That's what you feel, it's better to come out with it.
DANNY: Why be sorry? That's what you feel, it's better to come out with it.
RAFE: I didn't mean it.
DANNY: Sure you did. So come on. Say what you Waitress! Four beers!
RAFE: Waitress! Four beers!
DANNY: You don't wanna put beer over mai-tai.
RAFE: If you can't keep up, don't drink yours. The waitress delivers four bottles to the table. Rafe takes a slow sip, then stares at Danny.
RAFE: We gotta face some facts here.
DANNY: What facts are those?
RAFE: I understand how it could happen. I know why any guy would love her. And I can't blame you that it happened. You thought I was dead, she was grieving, you were trying to help her.
DANNY: I was grieving too.
RAFE: Yeah, right. Anyway, you didn't know.
DANNY: So what are you saying?
RAFE: I'm saying now you do know. So it's time for you to fuck off.
DANNY: You left her. How's that for a fact?
RAFE: How's this for a fact? I loved her Danny takes a long pull of beer, and Rafe does the same.
DANNY: You know, you're a lousy drinker. Drinking's supposed to make men feel bigger. It only makes you stupid. And Rafe nods thoughtfully, and sets down his beer.
RAFE: How's this? BAM! He knocks Danny out of the chair, flat on his ass. Danny backhands the blood from the corner of his mouth.
DANNY: You want it, you got it. He kicks Rafe in the back of the knee, then mule kicks him in the chest as he goes down, and the fight is on. The bar's bouncer, a big Samoan, moves over to break them up but Anthony steps in his way.
ANTHONY: Let 'em fight, they need it. The bouncer tosses Anthony aside, but before he can move in to interrupt the fight, Red breaks a lava volcano of Mai-Tai over the bouncer's skull. The bartender picks up the phone to call the M.P.'s. Rafe and Danny are exchanging punches in the middle of the room. Sailors sitting at the bar have swung around on their stools to watch the action. The other pilots are wincing with the punches their friends exchange, and bobbing and weaving as if in the fight themselves. A SAILOR tapes Billy.
SAILOR: Is this a private fight or can anybody jump in? Billy hits him. The whole bar erupts. Rafe and Danny are really having at it, fueled by so much emotion that nothing hurts. They're on the floor now, trying to rip each other apart. They struggle to their feet and Rafe manages to knee Danny in the balls. Danny doubles over in pain.
RAFE: That hurt? I didn't think you had any Without looking up, Danny lunges at Rafe, tackling him around the waist, driving him at the wall. But they don't hit the wall; they tumble through the back window of the bar not covered in glass, but fronds and wood and out into the back alley. They're lying there in the debris when they see the M.P. jeeps coming. They drag each other to their feet, and run EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN - NIGHT The Japanese task force rumbles through the night, the bows of the great ships blasting through the crashing waves.
YAMAMOTO: The submarines will be reaching the harbor soon. I hope they don't set off the alarm too soon.
WATCH OFFICER: Captain, lookouts report a sighting, two points off the starboard beam. The sonar operator looks up and nods.
SELFRIDGE CAPTAIN: How big?
SONAR OPERATOR: .I've lost it.
SELFRIDGE CAPTAIN: Probably a blackfish. I've seen them look like subs.
DUTY OFFICER: Sir, Selfridge reports a contact, then lost it. Now our sonar reports the The Captain looks toward the Selfridge, then trains his binoculars on the water were the Duty Officer points. He sees something dark and black slipping along beneath the surface. He gets onto his intercom.
INTERCOM: Sir, the Squadron Commander on Selfridge denies permission.
INTERCOM: Denies, Sir. He says it's a blackfish. The Captain chokes back his frustration and shuts down the intercom but then he says to the Duty Officer, as they watch the shape disappear toward Pearl Harbor.
RAFE: How come you're not pukin'?
DANNY: I guess I'm used to it. I've felt like throwing up every minute since you got Rafe straightens up, but the waves of sickness come back over him and he bends over again. Danny looks at his friend, and the pain is written on Danny's face.
DANNY: Don't blame her, Rafe. It's not like you're thinking.
RAFE: ( between heaves ) Fuck you.
DANNY: She loves you. I know that. And part of what she loves in me is how much of you she sees in me. Rafe doesn't seem to be listening; but Danny knows he is.
DANNY: We were both torn up. I started dropping by to see her, because we understood what each other felt. We'd have coffee and try not to talk about you, but we always Rafe stands to face Danny; this is hard for Danny to say.
DANNY: She said I was so much like you. I said, No, I'm not. I'm like I am because of you, but I'm not you, not as good as you. Everybody else saw me as a loser with a big chip on his shoulder. But you saw the better part of me, the part of me that could be like you, and changed me. You made me who I am.
RAFE: How sweet. Is that when you put the move on her? Danny slams his fist into Rafe's sick gut. Rafe doubles over again, coughing, nothing left in his belly to come up. Rafe stand slowly, nodding as if he knows the punch was what he deserved. Danny's about to apologize when once more Rafe knees him in the balls. Danny folds up, drops to his knees, and starts to retch.
RAFE: That's better. Rafe crawls into the back seat of the car and passes out, Danny still collapsed at the side of the road.
SUB COMMANDER: Prepare to launch midget sub.
LOOKOUT: Captain, do you see that, in our wake? The Captain raises his binoculars and looks out behind the ship. He sees something small and black there.
OFFICER: Could it be one of ours?
ELLIS: Time to shut her down. That was a good first session. You'll get the hang of this new radar soon.
PRIVATE: Thank you, Sir. Hey.what's this? His screen shows a huge cloud of blips, heading toward them.
ELLIS: I've never seen anything like that He gets on the telephone.
OFFICER: Watch command. Coming from which direction?. Hold on. He covers the phone and tells his commander
OFFICER: Radar station has picked up a cloud of blips, coming in from the northeast. He switches on the radio, and tunes it to KGMB; hearing the Hawaiian music reassures him something.
COMMANDER: KGMB is on early. That means we've got a flight of B-17's coming in from the mainland, they use the radio music for a homing beacon.
ELLIS: All right, Sir. They say don't worry about it. He and the private look again at the cloud of blips growing ever larger, and moving in fast.
YAMAMOTO: We have achieved surprise, but their carriers are not in port. I don't like We have a fighter screen up, in case we are attacked, Admiral.
GENDA: We have a fighter screen up, in case we are attacked, Admiral.
YAMAMOTO: We must go ahead. This is our moment.
LIEUTENANT: Admiral, one of our destroyers reports sinking a sub on its way into Pearl.
ADMIRAL KIMMEL: Relay that to Washington.and cancel my golf game.
ADMIRAL KIMMEL: Any response from Washington?
KIMMEL'S AIDE: Nothing, Sir.
SAILOR 1: Look at that.
SAILOR 2: It's the Army again, practicing on us. Something drops from the lead plane and splashes easily into the water; the plane banks away.
SAILOR 2: Practice torpedoes. A white streak runs through the water at them.
SAILOR 2: Now listen, you'll hear a little thud when it hits the side of the ship. They watch it rush at them.then, a MASSIVE EXPLOSION! It throws up a fifty foot wall of water, hurling the sailors and everything else on the deck into the sea.
SAILOR: Shit! I'll get some ammo! He runs for the ladders, and is shot down before he gets EXT. SKIES OVER PEARL HARBOR - DAY The dive bombers scream in.
INTERCOM: Battle stations! Battle stations! This is not a drill! Men run to the ladders, and the shaking of the ship from a bomb blast tosses them off; Dorie's at the foot of the ladder when men fall back on top of him.
BLOODY OFFICER: Boy! We need stretcher bearers on the Dorie runs into the fire and smoke, toward the bridge.
EVELYN: Oh my God. EVERYBODY TO THE HOSPITAL! As she runs, Japanese planes are coming toward the base.
EVELYN: Get everything out! Bandages, sutures oh God, the men in traction. Come with She races into the hallway, the other two following.
EVELYN: Cut them down, and take cover!! Hurry! Bombs are falling outside, on the airfield this wing of the hospital faces. Evelyn slices the traction ropes of a man with both legs broken; ignoring his groans, she rolls him out of the bed and covers him with the mattress. The other nurses follow her lead. The bombs are coming toward the hospital ward; Evelyn finishes with the fourth man and covers him and herself with the mattress, just as a bomb craters outside the window. The nurses and patients look up after the explosions have passed; there's a chunk of smoking shrapnel lying on the springs of the bunk where the last man had been lying.
RED: He slaps his face with both hands, and stomps his feet.
RED: Th-th-th-th-Dammit! Th-th-th- He still can't get it out, can't wake them; bursting with frustration, he suddenly blasts out singing
RED: ( singing ) The Jaaaps!! The Jaaaps!! He's belting it like a baritone in a bizarre opera. His friends stir; what the hell? Red points outside and tries to talk, but now he can't mutter a syllable. The guys hear the explosions, and realize.
BILLY: Goddamn Japs! Billy jumps to his feet and starts to run toward a cluster of fighters that hasn't gone up yet.
ANTHONY: Anthony tries to grab him and drag him back to earth but he misses; Billy gets a few steps before the fire from a strafing Zero catches up to him; his friends watch in horror as Billy gets shorter as he runs; the Zero's machine gun fire is sawing his legs off from the feet up. Billy falls, legless but still alive; then a bomb falls almost on top of him, sending body parts over the pilots. Their innocence, like America's, is gone in that moment.
RAFE: Get me into a plane!
DANNY: Come on! Danny sprints; Rafe follows. Danny reaches a phone booth, and digs a dime from his pants.
RAFE: You're making a phone call?! Danny dials, as waves of bullets sweep the area, and more planes blow up on the flight line. Rafe thinks he's lost his This is Walker! We're under attack! Get those planes fueled and armed RIGHT NOW! He runs back toward the car; Rafe, in the nonsense of battle, reaches in to hang up the receiver, before Danny grabs him and leads him on a sprint to the car, as the phone booth shatters behind them from the strafing. On the way to the car they dive back to the ground to avoid strafing and see their friends lying nearby, in shock.
DANNY: ( into phone ) This is Walker! We're under attack! Get those planes fueled and armed RIGHT NOW! He runs back toward the car; Rafe, in the nonsense of battle, reaches in to hang up the receiver, before Danny grabs him and leads him on a sprint to the car, as the phone booth shatters behind them from the strafing. On the way to the car they dive back to the ground to avoid strafing and see their friends lying nearby, in shock.
ANTHONY: They got Billy.
DANNY: Come with us! He and Rafe jump up and run again. Anthony, Red, and several other pilots reach the Buick and dive in. Danny drives away, through the strafing.
RAFE: Where are we going?
DANNY: Auxiliary field at Haleiwa, ten miles north of here.
RAFE: What's there?
DANNY: Six P-40's. As the Zero pilots see the Buick moving, they go after it. Danny drives like a madman through the strafing, zigzagging and gunning the Buick's V-8.
PANICKED SAILOR: The water's rising! It's coming up, we're all gonna drown!
TERRIFIED SAILOR: Get me out! Get me out!
TERRIFIED SAILOR: MY FOOT'S CAUGHT! He's at the lower end of the compartment, where the water is deeper the ship's nose is lower than her stern. The water's up to the guy's neck. The man with the flashlight dives down, and finds the guys foot wedged together in the pipes of the ships ceiling now their floor. He pops up again. The water's up to the trapped guy's mouth; he's already gagging.
EARL: The Buick, bullet holes punched through the truck, slides to a stop near the planes, and the pilots jump out.
DANNY: They ready, Earl?
EARL: They'll all fly, but oh, shit. What stops him is the cloud of Zeros and dive bombers, shrieking in.
DANNY: The guys scatter. There are sandbags around the hut, and they run there, diving into it's shelter just before the first strafing pass, when a Zero strafes one of the P-40's and a dive bomber blasts another. Earl stands up in shock and fury.
EARL: You absolute mother-fuckin' son of a bitch! You shot one of my planes! Danny pulls him down, as the Zeros roar overhead.
DANNY: This ain't a little feud, Earl, it's World War Two!
RAFE: They're coming around for another pass. You got extra weapons and ammo?
EARL: Cock-suckin' right I do!! In the gun You guys get those! Earl, Rafe, come with me! Danny, Rafe and Earl run to the planes that got hit and strip out the 20mm cannons and ammo.
DANNY: You guys get those! Earl, Rafe, come with me! Danny, Rafe and Earl run to the planes that got hit and strip out the 20mm cannons and ammo.
RAFE: Danny, over there! We're in a canyon, they'll come straight down it, we'll get 'em in a crossfire. Danny, Rafe and Earl run to a gully opposite the shed and set up there, as the other pilots brace the machine guns against the sandbags. The Japanese planes attacks again. This time the lead plane hits a wall of steel fired from the combined guns; the bullets chew into the bomb it carries and the plane EXPLODES. The airborne debris makes the following planes shear off. Red's standing, firing; he yells at the Zeros
RED: D-don't like it when we fight back, do Red runs out with his machine gun and keeps firing even when the planes have passed, trying to shoot them right up the Earl! You said the planes were ready but but what?
DANNY: Earl! You said the planes were ready but but what?
EARL: Of the four left, only one is full of Will the others get into the air? Earl shoots a look to Rafe, then turns to Danny.
RAFE: Will the others get into the air? Earl shoots a look to Rafe, then turns to Danny.
EARL: Danny, I don't like this fuckin' guy.
DANNY: Anthony, Red, stay with the guns! Coma, you cover the cannons! Joe, Theo, come with us! Earl, you get on the radio! We're gonna fight these fuckers. Two of the pilots, Joe and Theo, run to Danny.
JOE: How do we do it?
DANNY: Your call, Rafe.
RAFE: Get rolling as fast as you can. Stay low! We'll use the topography to separate them and then we can take 'em one on one. They race toward the planes, and the Japanese attack again. Seeing the pilots running for the P-40's, the Zeros aim for them; Rafe and Danny race for the most distant of the planes; Joe and Theo run for the closer planes, through the dusty bullet hits. Theo makes his plane and is just strapping himself in when bullets stitch his fuselage, wounding him. He still forces the plane forward. He taxis twenty feet and his cockpit gets chopped up and the plane arches into a right turn and putters to a stop, Theo dead at the controls. Joe doesn't bother to strap in; he hits the throttle hard and heads down the runway. The Zeros are on him as he gets ten feet of air at 120 M.P.H. The Zero's bullets eat his canopy and plane skin; the plane breaks apart in mid air, spilling in gouts of flame as it smashes down on the tarmac. Rafe and Danny have reaches the more distant P-40's and are revving their engines as they see Joe and Theo's fate. They throw on their radio headsets. Their way seems blocked: they've got no runway behind them, the wreckage of four P-40's scattered ahead of them, and the Zeros screaming over the low hills to attack them. Now Rafe and Danny talk through the radio.
DANNY: It's tight.
RAFE: Tighter 'n a bulls ass in fly season. Don't hit the barn. They gun their engines and roll through the grass on either side of the runway, dodging the burning planes; they lift off, clearing the quonset hut by a couple of inches. They blow right through the strafing fire, and into the sky. Eight Zeros are all over them. Earl is in the hut, on the radio and watching through I see six.seven.eight of the cocksuckers! Don't let 'em hurt my Danny's swiveling in his seat, looking left, right, back.
EARL: I see six.seven.eight of the cocksuckers! Don't let 'em hurt my Danny's swiveling in his seat, looking left, right, back.
DANNY: They're all over us!
RAFE: Bet they don't dust crops in Japan. Danny understands immediately, following Rafe's tactic as he breaks into a sharp turn and uses the hut, palm trees, and low hills to shake the Japs. They fly like crop dusters, skimming down a foot from the ground, then bobbing up, banking left and right. The Zeros have divided into two groups to chase them, their wings clipping tree tops as they try to follow the Americans. It feels like a 200 M.P.H. car chase, 20 feet off the ground, Rafe and Danny skimming and bobbing over the terrain, but there are too many Japanese.
RAFE: Danny! Let's play some chicken! Danny banks in one direction, Rafe in another.
EARL: Oh shit, oh shit. He can't even watch. At the last instant Rafe and Danny snap a quarter spin so the planes flash by belly to belly. Two of the Zeros collide in mid-air, exploding, as the other Zeros scatter.
RAFE: You hear my okay?
DANNY: Yeah. So you can call me if you need I got a half a tank. You?
RAFE: I got a half a tank. You?
DANNY: Little less. He fires a short burst to see if his guns work; they do. Rafe does the same. Up ahead they see a formation of Japanese planes, headed toward Pearl.
RAFE: They're in strafing formation, we'll blow right through their line. They look across at each other.
RAFE: Land of the free.
DANNY: Home of the brave. Side by side the P-40's scream in.
RAFE: They're trying to hold formation. We can chew 'em up! The P-40's dig in again, swooping down on the line of Zeros. Rafe hits first, machine gunning one plane, and Danny comes in behind it, finishing it off. The Japanese pilots are screaming at each other over their radios, but their SQUADRON COMMANDER sees Pearl Harbor ahead, and tells them
JAPANESE BOMBARDIER: West Virginia. Oklahoma. Ah, Arizona. He flips his bomb switch, and a HUGE STEEL BOMB falls away.
EVELYN: Put criticals in ward one, stables in two! Barbara! Fill every syringe you can find with stimulant and antibiotic
MEDIC: Where are the doctors?
EVELYN: On the third tee.
SANDRA: Evelyn! Where's the morphine?
RAFE: Ain't no time for spectatin'! They turn back after the line of Zeros. There are some Japanese planes coming after them now, but the P-40's head at their noses, firing, then duck past in a double maneuver, and turn right back into the Japanese formation. Rafe has a plane in his sights, but his guns fire only a short burst before stopping.
RAFE: I'm out of ammo!
DANNY: I'm out of fuel! They head back. A single Zero is on their way. Rafe charges it and draws its fire; Danny comes in behind the Zero and rakes its cockpit; the Japanese pilot backs off. The P-40's dive back toward Haleiwa. A handful of Zeros returning from Pearl see them and follow.
GENDA: Second attack wave is in the air.
DISC JOCKEY: All Army, Navy, and Marine personnel to report to duty.
GENERAL SHORT: Mobilize everything! We're at war! Send a message to Washington: Hostilities with Japan commenced with an air raid on Pearl Harbor.
HOPKINS: Oval Room. Yes, he is. It's Knox, Mr. President.
ROOSEVELT: ( taking phone ) He listens, then puts the receiver down, shaken.
ROOSEVELT: The Japanese have attacked Pearl Harbor.
HOPKINS: My God. Do we have damage estimates?
ROOSEVELT: Our Pacific Fleet, at anchor, unprepared? It's terrible. It has to be. And it's not over.
DANNY: We need ammo too! Earl shouts instructions to the pilots.
EARL: Strip it from the wrecks! The other pilots race to the wrecked P-40's and start pulling out ammo belts. Earl glares at the smoking engine of Danny's plane, and the bullet holes.
EARL: Who the fuck taught you to fly?
DANNY: He did. Earl looks at Rafe's plane, more shot-up and abused than Danny's. Rafe grins and waves to him. Earl mumbles a stream of guttural and unintelligible obscenities. The Zeros that followed them sweep down, strafing. One mechanic, running across the field with a belt of ammo, goes down. Coma, running behind him, picks up the fallen man's ammo and his own, bringing both to the planes behind the hut. He, Red, and Anthony reload the machine guns in Rafe and Danny's planes. Rafe and Danny gun their engines and head back into the air, the grounded pilots firing a covering barrage and Earl even coming up with a 12-gauge shotgun to fire at the Zeros as they rush past.
SHIMAZAKI: Second wave, deploy over the military bases. High level bombers to the air stations, dive bombers attack ships in harbor. Fighters strafe and cover. He leads the second wave in on their attack run.
OFFICER: Grab a dinghy and get ammo from the base ammo storeroom. The young sailor jumps to a dinghy and launches it through the oily waters and thick black smoke.
GUNNERY SERGEANT: We need weapons and ammo!
SUPPLY SERGEANT: You need authorization.
GUNNERY SERGEANT: The fuck I do! He pushes the man out of the way and starts grabbing weapons.
BARRACKS: The Marines set up in the windows of their already-strafed barracks, and start firing there, as the Zeros scream past.
NAVAL STATION: A fire engine from the Honolulu Fire Department races up to the sight of buildings burning from the air attack. As the firemen jump out, a Zero strafes them, gunning down the As the strafing Zero starts to bank away, two P-40's come in behind it, both of them gunning away. The Zero comes apart under the barrage, and crashes in a ball of flame. It's Rafe and Danny, back in the air.
SANDRA: I can't tell who's gotten morphine and who hasn't!
EVELYN: Take a grease pencil and mark an M on the forehead of everyone you stick. A young doctor is trying to give an intravenous injection to a man who's badly charred; the doctors hands are shaking.
EVELYN: Don't look for a vein, just poke.
SANDRA: My pen's dry!
EVELYN: Use lipstick. Use ammo belts for tourniquets, use your own nylons if you have to! Barbara! Grab anything that will hold a pint of blood and sterilize The doctors are amputating limbs right there in the hallway. A SENIOR DOCTOR calls
SENIOR DOCTOR: Evelyn! You have to do the triage! They're bringing them in with trucks! Evelyn moves to the door. Trucks are pulling up, loaded with the wounded, young terrified soldiers bringing them inside; Evelyn does quick triage as they pass.
EVELYN: Critical front ward!. Give him morphine, he can't wait. The next body through is a pilot, wings on his uniform, his chest riddled with bullets and his face shot off. For a moment Evelyn falters, then she forces herself to check the dog tags. It isn't Rafe or Danny. Evelyn sags in guilty relief.
EVELYN: Take him outside and cover him; he's She steadies herself as the next body comes through, a woman on a stretcher, her stomach shot open, pale hands clutching at the open wound. Evelyn feels for a pulse.
EVELYN: She's gone too, take her It's Betty. And though the bombs are blasting and guns booming everywhere, the world goes silent for Evelyn. One of the sailors outside the door is pointing to the harbor, the Nevada has begun to move.
EVELYN: Go to the base hardware store and get some of those canister spray things they use for killing bugs.
ORDERLY: No, just the sprayers. We'll fill them with tannic acid, it'll sterilize them and cool the burns! GO! The orderly races away. They can still hear the bombs falling outside. A sailor staggers toward the hospital from the Nevada. He is completely gray. Everyone stares at him, and then realizes he is nude, burned gray, his skin ash. Evelyn rushes to help him, shouting back over her shoulder to the other nurses
EVELYN: No, just the sprayers. We'll fill them with tannic acid, it'll sterilize them and cool the burns! GO! The orderly races away. They can still hear the bombs falling outside. A sailor staggers toward the hospital from the Nevada. He is completely gray. Everyone stares at him, and then realizes he is nude, burned gray, his skin ash. Evelyn rushes to help him, shouting back over her shoulder to the other nurses
EVELYN: We're gonna need every bed. If they can breathe, make 'em get up and move someplace else!
GENDA: We have achieved complete surprise! The first wave is returning, the second is attacking now, and we have lost only a few planes. We can launch a third wave, The second wave has not returned. And we have no idea where their carriers are. What is the damage report?
YAMAMOTO: The second wave has not returned. And we have no idea where their carriers are. What is the damage report?
COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: We have Commander Fuchida on the radio now, Admiral. Yamamoto nods and Fuchida's voice comes over the intercom.
FUCHIDA'S VOICE: I am over the harbor now.
FUCHIDA: ( into radio ) We have a tremendous victory. Many ships damaged, some totally destroyed. But the Second Wave's attack is being hindered by the smoke.
YAMAMOTO: The more we attack, the harder it is to find targets. And we no longer have If we launch the third wave and annihilate their fuel depots, we destroy their ability to operate in the Pacific for at least a year!
GENDA: If we launch the third wave and annihilate their fuel depots, we destroy their ability to operate in the Pacific for at least a year!
YAMAMOTO: And if we fail, and lose our carriers, we destroy our ability to fight them at all. As soon as the second wave returns, we will withdraw.
CONSCIOUS SOLDIER: Sarge?! Where are you, Sarge? He's crawling around toward the bushes; his legs are shattered, but he's spotted a body. He reaches it, turns it over and it's headless. He turns away in horror.and finds himself staring at the severed head. The medics appear.
MEDIC: We've got two more over here!
SHORT: I want lookouts and sentries everywhere, with orders to shoot first and ask questions later.
COLONEL: You think an invasion possible, General?
SHORT: After this morning, we better not consider anything impossible. An aide hands Short the telegram. He reads it
SHORT: From Washington. "Intelligence reports an ultimatum from Japan to be given precisely at one p.m. Washington time. Just what significance the hour set may have we do not know, but be on alert The irony is bitter in his throat.
CAPTAIN: Well, son, we won't worry about the dinghy today.
RAFE: How can we help?
RAFE: What else can we do?
EVELYN: There's nothing you can do here, they'll die or they won't, we just She stops, afraid if she says more, she'll lose grip on her emotions. She can see the wreckage out in the harbor.
EVELYN: There was a sailor, a black man on the West Virginia, named Dorie Miller. I'd like to know if he's alive. She goes back to her work.
DANNY: Where is the West Virginia?
OFFICER: He points; the battleship has sunk, its superstructure barely showing above the water. It looks hopeless to find a single sailor here; but then they see a powerful black sailor, pulling to the dock with a dinghy full of dead men retrieved from the water. As workers unload the bodies, the black sailor sits down, exhausted physically and emotionally, his head in his hands. Rafe and Danny approach him.
DANNY: We're looking for Dorie Miller.
DORIE: That's me, Sir.
RAFE: A friend of ours wanted to be sure you're alive. Evelyn. A nurse.
DORIE: How is she?
DANNY: Like we all are. Miller nods, and looks out over the harbor, a hellish place where black smoke still hangs over everything, the shattered remains of men and ships still in the harbor. It's total devastation. And yet something about that scene stirs something else in Dorie Miller.
DORIE: There's something out there I need to get. Will you help me?
DORIE: The Arizona. Hold the dinghy steady, so it doesn't bust open. Rafe and Danny brace the dinghy so it doesn't move; but they still don't see what Dorie is after as he fishes down in the water, for something barely at the surface; he works for a moment, then pulls it up. It's the oil-soaked flag of the Arizona.
SAILOR: What's that? The light comes on and sweeps around the faces. The water is up to their chests, but it's stopped rising.
SAILOR FLASHLIGHT: Just hand on. They'll find us.
SAILOR: How do you know?
SAILOR FLASHLIGHT: Because we would find them. He switches the light off again.
SAILOR FLASHLIGHT: Breathe easy. Stay calm.
SAILOR: You hear something? Something stirs in the ship; a noise.from where? Then a point of light; sparks fly into the room; somebody's cutting through the wall. And the sparks illuminate faces suddenly filled with hope. But as the cut enlarges, the trapped air, compressed by the water, starts rushing out and the water starts rising again. The trapped sailors hope turns to terror.
SAILOR: It's letting out air, and letting in The steel circle pops out, and they knock the welders down in their hurry to escape. Some of the sailors who were trapped are naked. They fight their way toward the escape hole cut into the hull, assisted by rescue workers.
ROOSEVELT: Yesterday, December 7, 1941 a date which will live in infamy the United States of American was suddenly and deliberately attacked by naval and air forces of the Empire of Japan. OVER THIS, we see the bombing, the aftermath, the bodies being fished from the oil-soaked harbor.
ROOSEVELT: The distance of Hawaii from Japan makes it obvious that the attacks was planned many days or even weeks ago. During the intervening time the Japanese Government has deliberately sought to deceive the United States by false statements and expressions of hope for continued peace.
ROOSEVELT: .I regret to tell you that many American lives have been lost.
ROOSEVELT: Yesterday the Japanese Government also launched an attack against Malaya. Last night Japanese forces attacked Hong Kong. Guam.
ROOSEVELT: .the Philippine Islands. Wake Island. And this morning the Japanese attacked Midway Island.
ROOSEVELT: The facts speak for themselves. With confidence in our armed forces with the unbounding determination of our people we will gain the inevitable triumph so help us God. I ask that the Congress declare that since the unprovoked and dastardly attack by Japan on Sunday, December 7, 1941, a state of The words echoes out across America
ROOSEVELT'S VOICE: It rings through the radios of farm houses, to country boys gathered round; in the pool halls of big cities; in the fire houses and high schools. THE LINES AT RECRUITING STATIONS all across America men line up faster than the recruiters can handle them.
ROOSEVELT: Gentlemen, the crisis we face is not the fact that our enemies believe they can defeat us it's the fact that our people believe it too. I want a plan a workable plan to hit the heart of Japan, to bomb them the way they have bombed us.
ADMIRAL: Mr. President, Pearl Harbor caught us because we didn't face facts. This isn't a time for ignoring them again. There are no planes in the entire American arsenal capable of covering the distance to Japan from any land base we control while carrying enough bombs to do any damage whatsoever.
GENERAL MARSHALL: He's right, Mr. President. The Army has long range bombers, but no place to launch them from. Midway's too far, China is overrun by Japanese forces, and Russia refuses to go to war with Japan and won't allow us to launch a raid from The navy's planes are small, carry light loads, and have short range. We would have to get them within a few hundred miles of Japan, and therefore risk our carriers. And if we lose our carriers, we have no shield against invasion.
ADMIRAL: The navy's planes are small, carry light loads, and have short range. We would have to get them within a few hundred miles of Japan, and therefore risk our carriers. And if we lose our carriers, we have no shield against invasion.
ROOSEVELT: What if the Japanese did invade?
GENERAL MARSHALL: We've done studies. We're confident we would turn them back eventually.after they'd gotten as far as Chicago.
ADMIRAL: Mr. President.with all respect.what you are asking can't be done. Roosevelt places his hands on the arms of his wheelchair, and struggles to lift himself. Aides jump to help him, but he waves them off. With inhuman physical effort, that has his neck veins bulging and sweat popping on his face, Roosevelt stands on his withered legs.
ROOSEVELT: Do not tell me.it can't be done.
MINISTER: .Where is God in this? Our enemies believe a divine wind protects them. We see our friends laid out before us, and find it hard to believe in anything at Rafe and Evelyn exchange a glance, past Danny.
MINISTER: Though we cannot understand why our friends should die while we live, we can affirm our truest selves in our belief that any God worth divinity would choose both justice and mercy, and would take these fallen brothers and sisters into eternal peace. Amen. As the mourners disperse, Evelyn puts a lei on Betty's casket; Red does the same, then breaks down beside Danny. As Danny comforts him, Evelyn moves to Rafe.
EVELYN: I need to tell you something. I didn't know what it was to lose somebody, to see death and find how much it scares you. That you haven't lived and loved enough. I didn't understand. Forgive me.
RAFE: I need to tell you something. I didn't know what it was to lose somebody, to see death and find how much it scares you. That you haven't lived and loved enough. I didn't understand. Forgive me.
EVELYN: Rafe. No. You forgive me.
RAFE: Of course I forgive you. I know what you feel for Danny is real. And your choice is your choice.
EVELYN: That's what I have to tell you, Rafe. It wasn't a choice. It An Army Corps MAJOR steps up and interrupts.
MAJOR: Lieutenant Rafe McCawley?
RAFE: Yes, Major.
MAJOR: Lieutenant Daniel Walker here too? Danny sees him and moves up.
DANNY: I'm Walker.
MAJOR: You're going Stateside. We fly out in half an hour. He hands them both orders.
RAFE: What for, Sir?
MAJOR: Ask Colonel Doolittle. Those orders are from him.
DANNY: I told her not to come. The Major, watching the fueling, gets a wave from the ground crew and turns and motions to Rafe and Danny that they're ready. They pick up their duffel bags and then Evelyn comes around the corner of the shelter. Rafe sees her first, but stops and looks away as Danny moves to her. For a moment he studies her eyes, and she does not look away.
DANNY: This hasn't been easy for any of us. I feel awful for how it's happened. But I've seen my first spring too. Thanks for knowing that's true. He takes her into his arms, kisses her tenderly but briefly, a final time. Evelyn's eyes find Rafe, but he can't look at her until the embrace is over. Rafe and Danny move to the plane and hurry up the steps. They turn before the door closes and wave to her. Evelyn's still standing there as the plane lifts away.
DOOLITTLE: I heard what you did.
RAFE: We can explain, Colonel.
DOOLITTLE: Explain what?
DANNY: Whatever is was you heard about us.
DOOLITTLE: You mean the hula shirts you were flying in?. Or the six planes you shot down? You're both being awarded the Silver Star, and promoted to captain.
RAFE: Is that the good new, Sir, or
DOOLITTLE: You're just about the only pilots in the Army with actual combat experience, so you're volunteering for a mission I've been ordered to put together. Do you know what top secret is?
RAFE: Well sure, Colonel
DOOLITTLE: Top secret means you help me pick the other pilots, train, and go without knowing where you're going until it's too You can count on us.
DANNY: You can count on us.
DOOLITTLE: There's only one other thing I can tell Doolittle looks up from his paperwork for the first time. His eyes are fierce.
DOOLITTLE: You won't need any goddamn hula shirts.
VOICE: Colonel Doolittle strides into the room as all the men snap to attention.
DOOLITTLE: Be seated. The mission you've volunteered for is dangerous. How dangerous? Look at the man beside you. It's a good bet that six weeks from now, either you or he will be dead. Danny and Rafe whisper to each other
DANNY: Sorry you're gonna die cause I'm gonna make it.
RAFE: What color flowers you want me to bring to your funeral?
DOOLITTLE: In flight school you qualified in single and in multi-engine planes. You'll be flying multi-engines here.
RAFE: ( whispering ) I want to introduce a couple of people. Doc White is a flight surgeon; he has volunteered for gunnery training so that he can go on the mission, because we can't spare the weight of an extra man.
DOOLITTLE: I want to introduce a couple of people. Doc White is a flight surgeon; he has volunteered for gunnery training so that he can go on the mission, because we can't spare the weight of an extra man.
DANNY: ( whispering ) A long range bomber mission.
DOOLITTLE: .And Ross Greening, who will oversee your equipment. Any questions?
DANNY: Who'll be the first one in, Colonel? I'd like to volunt Rafe elbows his ribs so hard it takes his breath away.
DOOLITTLE: I thought I'd made it clear, I'm not just putting this mission together I'm leading it myself.
RAFE: I take it back, about the flowers. We're all gonna die.
DOOLITTLE: This is what we'll fly the B-25. There's one thing you have to be aware of from the very beginning. You see that They look down the runway a few hundred feet. A private waves, and starts painting a red line across the runway. Another private, close by, paints a green line.
DOOLITTLE: Green means go. Red means dead.
DOOLITTLE: You're having trouble getting airborne in the shorter space because you're not revving the engines enough. You've got to push them to the limit before you ever start to move. Rafe is distracted; he's lost in though, looking at Danny and looks away just before Danny realizes it.
DOOLITTLE: We've got to get the weight down.
GREENING: Okay, forty pounds gone. And in it's place, this. He shows Doolittle an aluminum strip on a swivel.
GREENING: Weight, 3 ounces. Cost, 20 cents.
DOOLITTLE: Does it work?
DOOLITTLE: Right down to the treetops. Low as you Rafe brings his plane down, smoothly. Then Danny's plane appears under him. Rafe jerks his nose up quickly. Rafe's angry; Danny's laughing but he scares the shit out of his crew.
DANNY: Fun today. Like old times.
RAFE: Danny, what the hell are you trying to do out there?
DANNY: What do you mean? I'm just doing what we've always done.
RAFE: No. You're trying to beat me.
DANNY: We've always tried to beat each other.
RAFE: Bullshit. We've played with each other, pushed each other. This is different. Like you want to prove that you're better than me. Who's that for Danny's anger flares for a moment but Rafe's hit home.
DANNY: Maybe just trying to measure up.
RAFE: What's between you and her is between you and her. But here's what's between you and me. Everybody has a hero, Danny. And you're mine. Danny's caught off-guard.
RAFE: When we were growing up, I had everything. You had nothing. You climbed out of a hole I couldn't even see the bottom of. I think maybe when I went off to England, I was trying to measure up to you. Measuring up's over. Let's just look out for each other. Okay? They embrace, closer now than ever.
ROOSEVELT'S VOICE: Good evening, America. Families all across America are gathered around radios, I'm told that 80% of American families are listening to these fireside chats of ours, and I'm happy we can come together, as one great American family. I'd like each of you within the sound of my voice to find a map. The FAMILIES do, gathering around encyclopedias, school books, any reference they have, spread on kitchen tables, suburban living room rugs, or farmhouse hearths. And the B-25's, all sixteen of them, begin a journey in formation, flying at treetop level across America: Mississippi delta land, Texas plains, Arizona mesas.
ROOSEVELT'S VOICE: I'm told that 80% of American families are listening to these fireside chats of ours, and I'm happy we can come together, as one great American family. I'd like each of you within the sound of my voice to find a map. The FAMILIES do, gathering around encyclopedias, school books, any reference they have, spread on kitchen tables, suburban living room rugs, or farmhouse hearths. And the B-25's, all sixteen of them, begin a journey in formation, flying at treetop level across America: Mississippi delta land, Texas plains, Arizona mesas.
ROOSEVELT'S VOICE: Look at the Pacific Ocean. It covers half the surface of the earth. And look at the great Atlantic. The oceans both divide and connect us to our enemies, and either they will come to us, or we will go to them. The formation of B-25's reaches San Francisco.
RED: N-naval station? What's g-going on?
RAFE: Wish I knew, Red.
DOOLITTLE: Want to see where they're going?
ANTHONY: I guess that settles it. Somewhere in the Pacific.
RED: With a s-short r-runway. They all gather around Doolittle as he moves up to them.
DOOLITTLE: You have rooms at the Biltmore. I suggest a nice meal and a good night's sleep. We leave tomorrow. Doolittle walks to join a captain.
ANTHONY: San Francisco, here we are!
DANNY: ( grinning ) I don't reckon we can get hogbrains and grits, but I hear a man can eat good in this town.
RAFE: I'm gonna turn in. I hate being on the water. I think this is the last sleep I'll get for awhile.
RAFE: The manager hands him a key, and smiles curiously.
MANAGER: Have fun.
RAFE: They were bringing back a ship full of wounded and needed extra nurses along. I wrote Colonel Doolittle, and told him I needed to see you before you go.
EVELYN: They were bringing back a ship full of wounded and needed extra nurses along. I wrote Colonel Doolittle, and told him I needed to see you before you go.
RAFE: It must of been a convincing letter.
EVELYN: It was. I couldn't have you go away, wherever it is.to war.without knowing something. You think I made a choice, of Danny over you. I didn't. I didn't have a choice. I'm pregnant. The blood drains from Rafe's heart. Yet he finds the strength to move to her. She turns away, so she won't throw her arms around him.
RAFE: Does Danny know? She shakes her head, refuses to cry.
EVELYN: I wasn't sure, until the day you turned up alive. I never had a chance to tell him. Now I can't have him thinking about this when he needs to be thinking about his mission, and how to come back from She turns and faces him again.
EVELYN: I want you thinking about that too. Just come back. Rafe, I see it in your face. You're thinking you don't have anything to live for. Don't you dare think that way. I'll never write a letter, or look at a sunset, without thinking of you. I'll love you my whole life. And I want you to live. She looks at him, her eyes bright with tears, but still she refuses to cry. They both know they can't touch, or they'll never let go. She walks past him, out of the room, closing the door softly behind her.
SHIP'S INTERCOM: Army pilots to the briefing room.
DOOLITTLE: Gentlemen, I can now tell you that the target of this mission is Tokyo. The pilots love it. The ones who have not seen battle are grinning and vocal. Rafe, Danny, Anthony, and Red are quieter, savoring the prospect of revenge.
RED: And where's the secret base, Sir? The one we t-takeoff from.
DOOLITTLE: The navy will get us to within 400 miles of the Japanese coast. We'll launch off the carriers from there. Suddenly the pilots don't like the sound of this.
ANTHONY: Sir, has this ever been done, launching an army bomber off a navy carrier?
DOOLITTLE: No. Any other questions?
RED: C-Colonel, we been p-practicing takeoff's, but I ain't sure we can land on these carriers d-decks.
DOOLITTLE: We won't have the fuel to get back to the carriers; they'll turn and run back to Hawaii the minute we're airborne.
RED: Then wh-where do we land?
DOOLITTLE: I have a phrase I want you all to memorize: "Lushu hoo megwa fugi." It means "I am an American." In Chinese. Absolute silence among the pilots.
RED: A-a-asshole!. Maybe it's l-longer going this way. He starts pacing back the other way, as if the ship's longer in that direction. The other pilots watch him for a moment, then follow him, counting again. Rafe and Danny are left standing alone at the end of the flight deck. Far over the surging sea.
DANNY: It's shorter than our practice runway.
RAFE: They'll turn the ship into the wind before we launch. That'll help.
DANNY: We'll be loaded with 2,000 pounds of bombs and 1,500 pounds of fuel. I got another Chinese phrase for Doolittle. "Mug wump rickshaw mushu pork." It means "Who the fuck thought up this Doolittle appears right beside them.
DOOLITTLE: He was a navy man. Doolittle walks away.
RAFE: Maybe we'll be lucky with the weather.
DOOLITTLE: Since we'll be on our own once we're in the air, I thought I had a good idea letting each crew select it's own target. He looks at a pile of paper slips in front of him.
DOOLITTLE: Now we have fifteen requests for the Emperor's Palace.and one for Tokyo baseball stadium.
RED: I d-don't think Japs ought'a be allowed to p-play baseball.
DOOLITTLE: I'd like to bomb their Emperor too. But I think that'd just piss 'em off. The idea here, Gentlemen, is not revenge. We're here to prove to them that they're neither invincible nor superior. So let's try this again. Military targets Colonel, to f-fight you need strategy. To have strategy, ya gotta practice. And to practice it, ya gotta play
RED: Colonel, to f-fight you need strategy. To have strategy, ya gotta practice. And to practice it, ya gotta play
DOOLITTLE: No baseball diamonds, Red.
RED: Y-Yes Sir.
ADMIRAL: The Enterprise will ride shotgun when we launch the bombers. They wanted our carriers at Pearl, and now we've come to them. If the Japanese get us, they'll be having dinner in San Francisco next EXT. FLIGHT DECK - THE HORNET - DAY The preparations begin. Deck crews move the B-25's to the rear of the flight deck. Fueling teams top off the bomber's gas tanks. Ordnance men hoist four bombs into each aircraft, and the army gunners load ammunition for the machine guns. Greening checks the planes' mechanical and hydraulic systems. And once again the pilots are out pacing the deck distance. It's turned into a game for them, walking off nerves. As Rafe and Danny pass.
RAFE: It's not getting any longer.
DANNY: Longer? It's getting shorter.
DOOLITTLE: We'll take off late this afternoon. I'll hit Tokyo at dusk, and drop incendiary bombs. You'll come after me at night, guided by the fires. Then it's on to China, where you'll arrive at dawn, guided to their airfields by the homing beacons the Chinese are going to switch on for us. That's if everything is perfect like every other military mission I've ever been involved with. Doolittle looks around the room. No one's smiling.
DOOLITTLE: Listen you guys. I'm the first plane then McCawley, Walker, the rest of you. I'll have the shortest run. If I don't make it, you don't go.
RAFE: Colonel.we're all going. Whether you make it or not.
DOOLITTLE: I know.
OFFICER: Sir, lookouts on the cruisers report patrol boats, ten miles away!
HALSEY: The Japs have set up a picket line! Order the cruisers to open fire! We've got to sink them before they get a message away.
RADIO OPERATOR: They've reported our position! Tell the EXT. HORNET - DAY Doolittle hurries up to the command bridge, with the naval officers sent by the Admiral to fetch him. Doolittle sees the cruisers next to the carrier firing its guns at Japanese boats in the distance.
DOOLITTLE: How far are we from Tokyo?
ADMIRAL: Seven hundred miles.
LOUDSPEAKER: Army pilots, man your planes!
DOOLITTLE: Load in every bit of extra gas you can carry! And strip everything you don't need out of the planes. I mean
EVERYTHING!: EXT. HORNET - FLIGHT DECK - STRIPPING THE PLANES - DAY It's starting to rain but the guys don't notice at all. They're stripping seats out of the planes, tossing out their own gear. Greening pulls the machine guns out of the rear of the planes and puts in broomsticks painted black. Off in the distance the Japanese patrol boat takes a hit and explodes. Rafe and Danny meet between their bombers.
DANNY: Broomsticks instead of tail guns.
RAFE: We'll get separated over the target, but you and I will rendezvous for the run to China. I'm on your wing.
DANNY: And I'm on yours. Land of the free.
RAFE: Home of the Brave. They climb into their bombers.
HALSEY: Of all the other things this mission is doing that have never been done before. I've never sent out planes that I wasn't going to see safely home. Let's get out of here. The task force runs for home.
RAFE: What's our ETA for Tokyo? The bombardier/navigator is already working out the numbers at his plotting table in the center of the plane.
NAVIGATOR: Almost exactly at 12 noon.
RED: High n-noon. I k-kinda like that. Rafe looks over to Danny and gives him a thumbs up.
DANNY: We got a 25-mile-an-hour head wind. How we doing with fuel?
GUNNER: How do you think? The gunner is already pouring gas into the tanks from the extra cans. Anthony stands and moves back to the rear of the plane, pulls a piece of chalk from his pocket and writes on the nose of the bombs "For America," "For Pearl Harbor," "For the Arizona," "For Billy." Rafe flies, lost in thought. Evelyn is back at Pearl, struggling to keep her mind on Danny is looking at his gauges, then at the picture in
DOOLITTLE'S NAVIGATOR: Time for the others to break off. His copilot uses the flashes to signal the other planes. They break off for their individual targets, every plane now on it's own.
SUPERVISOR: From the sea?. That couldn't be right, it must be part of the air raid practice this morning.
COMA: Listen to this it's Tokyo Rose.
ANTHONY: We'll give that bitch something to Danny and Rafe give each other a wave, and divert toward their separate targets. Each plane is on its own now.
JAPANESE MOTHER: Yes! So beautiful!
RAFE: Open bomb bay doors. DANNY'S PLANE runs toward its target. DOOLITTLE'S PLANE races over Tokyo.
GUNNER: Bomb bay doors open, sir.
RAFE: It's all yours. The bombardier hits the first switch. The bomb falls toward a factory. It strikes home, right on target. The blast is shocking it blows debris higher than the plane.
EMPEROR'S ATTENDANT: Surely just a drill, Divine One.
NAVIGATOR: Last bomb away. It slams into a factory, blowing debris everywhere and turning the factory into an inferno. Rafe's tail gunner sees Zeros swarming in with vengeance.
GUNNER: We got Zeros! And they're pissed off! Rafe changes course quickly.
RAFE: Can you get 'em off us? Red reacting to bullets coming through the rear of the fuselage, looks at the brooms protruding from the rear of the Whatta ya want me to do, sweep 'em! As the bombardier, navigator, and Red jump onto the other machine guns, Rafe looks for a way out. He dives down toward the city. The Zeros follow.
RED: Whatta ya want me to do, sweep 'em! As the bombardier, navigator, and Red jump onto the other machine guns, Rafe looks for a way out. He dives down toward the city. The Zeros follow.
RAFE: Danny, get the hell out of here! But Danny stays, mixing it up with the Zeros; with both B-25's together, their machine guns down one Zero and damage another. But there are too many. Rafe sees clouds coming in, and fog.
RAFE: Danny, run for the clouds! The bombers race toward the clouds, and make it; the Zeros lose them.
RAFE: We burned a lot of fuel back there. Flash them and ask about their supply.
ANTHONY: "How's your fuel?" Danny looks across to Rafe and shakes his head.
GENERAL MARSHALL: We have bombed Tokyo, Mr. President. Radio Tokyo interrupted it's own broadcast to make the announcement.
ROOSEVELT: Have the planes made it to China?
GENERAL MARSHALL: There've been some complications, Sir. The Chinese didn't receive our request for homing beacons until is was too late to get them set. And the planes had to take off so early they may lack fuel to make the mainland anyway.
ROOSEVELT: So those brave men are flying blind and running out of fuel.
GENERAL MARSHALL: The Chinese are sending out search parties to try to find the crews before the Jap patrols do, if any of the planes make it.
ROOSEVELT: God help them.
DOOLITTLE: We'll fly till we run out of fuel, then bail out. Just then his engines start to sputter.
DOOLITTLE: He puts the plane on auto-pilot and the men move to the hatches. Three guys go out; it's just Doolittle and his copilot left.
DOOLITTLE: Nobody else is gonna make it either. If I live through this, they're gonna put me in Leavenworth Prison. They jump.
COMA: We're running out of fuel. And I can't find the beacon. Danny gestures across to Rafe that he hears nothing in his radio phones. Rafe gestures the same thing back. They look down and the entire ground is covered with clouds.
RAFE: I don't know if we're over sea or land. Drop flares and try to spot something.
DANNY: Flash Rafe. We're gonna bail. Red sees Anthony signal.
RED: They've gotta jump.
RAFE: Not unless we know he's over land! Rafe yells at Danny, as if he could hear
RAFE: You are not bailing out into water!
RAFE'S NAVIGATOR: Coastline below! Through a break in the clouds they spot a rocky shoreline.
RAFE: We've got coast! Signal him to climb and Red signals; Danny's plane signals back.
RED: They don't have fuel to make altitude. He's gonna set it down in the water. Rafe looks over at Danny, who is gesturing; he gives up on the hand signals and grabs the flasher; Red reads the Morse Y-O-U. G-O. You go on. Rafe grabs the flasher and angrily flashes back two letters.
RED: Y-O-U. G-O. You go on. Rafe grabs the flasher and angrily flashes back two letters.
RAFE: N-O! We stay together! I'll go in Rafe turns his bomber and Danny follows, their planes arcing down toward the rocky coast; it's hairy, the clouds masking their view, as the altimeter winds down. At the last moment they see rocks looming out of the surf.
RAFE: Hang on tight! I'll put her in the smooth water and we'll swim in!
RAFE: It won't open til the plane fills! They struggle to breath as the water envelops them. But as the water reaches the top, Rafe takes a last breath and dives to the hatch; it comes open, and they swim up, dragging the rest of the crew.
RAFE: Danny! DANNY! Danny's eyes flutter open; he sees Rafe and mumbles
DANNY: I've made better landings. Danny's hand gropes to his throat; Rafe finds a V shaped shard of the fuselage hooked into his neck. Rafe grabs it, trying to bend it open; the sharp metal cuts his hands, but he keeps straining. It won't work, He pulls his .45 from his jacket and tries to pry the metal. It works a bit; he tosses the pistol aside and grabs the shard again, and opens it.
RAFE: You hang on, Danny! You hang on! You're gonna make it! Rafe's head snaps forward, crunched with the butt of a rifle; a Japanese patrol, four men, have arrived. They're angry, scared, hyped. They knock Red down too, yelling and brandishing their rifles at the fliers on the beach, living and dead. The Japanese officer is barking orders. They find the Captain's insignia on Danny's jacket, and begin binding him to a yoke, his wrists tied to the wood like a crucifixion, a wire around his neck. They find the navigator unconscious, but alive. The officer snaps a single word and a soldier shoots the navigator. The others wire Rafe's ankles together. Rafe is RAFE'S CONSCIOUSNESS fades in and out. He hears Danny choking, and his mind sees Danny as a boy those long years ago, being carried by the neck across the field by his Then Rafe sees THE PRESENT: Danny being half-carried, half- dragged by the neck by two Japanese. The officer is pulling Red along, hands bound behind him. And Rafe starts moving, being dragged on his back, pulled by his feet along the rocky His hand slides by the pistol he tossed behind the rock. The whole world slows down. He clutches it, shoots one of the men towing Danny. And as the man dragging Rafe turns around, Rafe shoots him in the The officer spins, raising his rifle; the soldier pulling Red, shoves him onto his face in the sand and aims his rifle too. The officer is pulling the trigger to kill Rafe when Danny slams him down from behind. The fourth soldier shoots Danny in the gut, then takes aim for Rafe's heart and is shot through the chest from The Japanese officers rises in surprise and is cut down by scythes carried by the Chinese peasant soldiers who are just Rafe struggles to Danny, moving the Chinese aside. Danny lies on his back, clutching his wound as if to hold onto his I can't make it.
RAFE: I can't make it.
DANNY: I can't make it.
RAFE: Yes you can. But Danny is silent, his eyes drifting shut, and in that moment Rafe thinks he is gone already. Then Danny's eyes drift open, finding him.
DANNY: Take care of Evelyn. The words almost kill Rafe, filling him with grief. From somewhere he finds the strength to say
RAFE: I will. And your baby. You're gonna be a father. Did Danny hear? His eyes are closed again. But his head comes up; Rafe takes it, and Danny pulls him closer to No. You are. Rafe cradles Danny in his arms. Danny's eyes are open, but Rafe sees no light there.
DANNY: No. You are. Rafe cradles Danny in his arms. Danny's eyes are open, but Rafe sees no light there.
RAFE: Danny. Land of the free. Land of the But Danny will never answer him again. Rafe hugs Danny tight, and weeps.
VOICE OVER: The Doolittle Raid was the pivotal moment of America's war with Japan. Before it, America knew nothing but defeat; after it, nothing but victory. One crew of Doolittle's raiders made it to Vladivostok, Russia, where they were interred for much of the war. Thirteen planes crash landed in China, where the Chinese people helped the Americans escape, and had their villages destroyed and citizens executed by the Japanese forces of occupation. Two crews were captured by the Japanese and three fliers were executed without trial, called "war criminals" by the Japanese. Jimmy Doolittle was promoted to General, and given the medal of honor. We see the ceremony at the White House, as Roosevelt presents Doolittle with the metal.
THE END: Writers : Randall Wallace
