SCOTT: Boy, have they changed. Who gets I don't know, just put it back.
BETH: I don't know, just put it back.
CHARLIE: Goddamnit, I just can't hit those high notes anymore.
JANET: You know Charlie, if you're serious about this, I know a great vocal Charlie's perplexed reaction.
BETH: Hi Dad, can I have 100 dollars for a brake job?
CHARLIE: Did I hear 70 dollars? What do you need 50 dollars for? How's your Peggy comes out of the kitchen. Charlie has stopped conspicuously at the threshold. A workman comes from behind Coming through.
WORKER: Coming through.
CHARLIE: Frank, watch the clock. Peggy looks outside.
PEGGY: There's something pathetic parked in front of my house.
CHARLIE: Come off it, Peggy. And what do you mean your house? This is my house. I paid for it, I'm still paying for I'm still waiting for the mortgage I mailed it to you on Wednesday.
PEGGY: I'm still waiting for the mortgage I mailed it to you on Wednesday.
CHARLIE: I mailed it to you on Wednesday.
PEGGY: Well, today's Saturday and it's still not here.
CHARLIE: Jesus, Peggy. Take it easy. I'm not used to that stuff. You always did the bills. Blame the damn post A workman approaches carrying an old mono record player: black and white, a real fifties artifact. For a moment their mutual resentment melts, as they look at each other.
PEGGY: That stays. The workman looks to Charlie for approval. Charlie nods. The workman shrugs, and heads back to the basement.
CHARLIE: You got a Tab?
PEGGY: I don't buy them anymore. You were the only one who drank them.
CHARLIE: You don't want them? They're going to make a big comeback any minute. Mark my words, these lamps are going to.
PEGGY: I know. Put Scott through college.
CHARLIE: I'll think of a way to sell, them. One day. Peggy opens a box filled with records. She closes it and moves to another. Charlie checks the contents of another box on the other side of the room.
PEGGY: Are you taking Janet to the reunion I'm not going. Scott calls from the top of the stairs.
CHARLIE: I'm not going. Scott calls from the top of the stairs.
SCOTT: Come on Dad!
CHARLIE: Be right there. I'll go through the rest of this stuff next weekend.
SCOTT: Bye Mom.
PEGGY: Bye sweetheart. Peggy and Charlie look at each other as Scott leaves.
CHARLIE: ( with real, regret ) I never thought it would go this far. Charlie exits. Peggy looks around. She slaps the flap of a box down, to close it, but it jumps back up.
PEGGY: If the pastries aren't here by nine thirty, call Monica and threaten her life. Peggy gets into the car, and blows a kiss to Beth.
PEGGY: I'll be back by noon. Peggy drives off as MONICA drives up. She exits her car and begins to unpack cake boxes.
BETH: Hi Monica. You just missed Mom.
MONICA: Sorry I'm late. My Bobo's back in EXT. KRISTIN'S COIFFURES HAIR SALON INSERT: Sign: KRISTIN'S COIFFURES Peggy exits with a fifties flip. From a distance she looks like a fifties teenager. She nervously looks at her reflection. Maybe this was a mistake. Too late now.
PEGGY: Oh, Dolores. Peggy switches stations until she finds the news.
PEGGY: Peggy Sue! They pull over to the side of the road.
CAROL: Peggy Sue! They pull over to the side of the road.
CAROL: I haven't seen you in years. In all that time, haven't you at least tried another hair style? Peggy tries to laugh off her embarrassment.
PEGGY: 1 just did it for the reunion. I thought it would be fun.
CAROL: You're probably the only one who could carry it off.
BETH: Where were you? You said you'd be back at twelve.
PEGGY: This is my old friend Carol.. I told you about her. Beth and Carol exchange hellos.
BETH: r was worried about you You didn't even call. You're always on my case if I don't call..
PEGGY: How do you like my hair?
BETH: It looks great. Don't change the subject. You know how busy Saturdays are. And I can't do the icing. I always mess up the roses. You're not being very responsible. Peggy takes over the work of decorating the large pennant shaped cake in silver icing: 25th Reunion — Buchanan High.'
CAROL: Who's the mother around here?
BETH: Sometimes I wonder.
WAITER: Here Charlie, extra fortune cookies. Good luck.
CHARLIE: Charlie grabs a cookie and puts it on the table in front of him, smashing it with his fist. He picks up and reads the He grabs and smashes another fortune cookie.
CHARLIE: ( manic ) Next week you'll be selling Sanyo remote control VCRs for three hundred and ninety—nine dollars? Oh ( sings ) Crazy Charlie. He grabs and smashes another fortune cookie.
CHARLIE: You'll give away Mitsubishi giant screen TVs for twelve hundred and ninety—five dollars! Oh no! I'll go Crazy Charlie. He grabs and smashes another cookie.
CHARLIE: You won't be undersold on stereos, videos, microwaves or blenders! Crazy Charlie, Crazy Charlie, I'm not breaking cookies, I'm smashing prices. Fabian ) Crazy Charlie, he insane. The waiter hits a big gong. Beth laughs.
BETS: When are you going to stop being so mad at Dad? How do you think that makes me feel?
PEGGY: I have a lot of unresolved feelings about him. I don't trust him. Besides, I hate those commercials.
BETH: I'm sorry I asked. We don't have time for another heart—to— heart. Here, try on the dress.
PEGGY: But I want you and Scott to Do you think he loves Janet? Maybe he's smashed too many fortune Come on Mom. Give him a break. He's missing the reunion because of you. You know he wants to go.
BETH: Come on Mom. Give him a break. He's missing the reunion because of you. You know he wants to go.
PEGGY: Then we'd both have a miserable time. What do you think? She looks exactly like a sixties teenager.
BETH: Hey, you're a hip chick. You look like you stepped right out of Life magazine. Any time you want to borrow it again, just ask.
PEGGY: Borrow?! This was my dress. Maybe it's a mistake. What if I'm the only one? I don't even want to go. Everybody's just going to Hi.. Where's Crazy Charlie?
BETH: Mom, lots of people are separated and divorced.
PEGGY: Not from the guy with the lowest prices in town.
PEGGY: I feel ridiculous. Maybe I should go home and change.
BETH: Why are you so nervous? What is the matter with you today?
PEGGY: I don't know. Reunions do funny things to people. At that moment they're joined by MADDY.( Madeline ) and ARTHUR NAGLE, coming up behind them. A typical polyester couple. Hellos all around and hugs. Arthur puts his arms around Beth and Peggy and leads them up the stairs.
MADDY: You two look like that soap commercial. Which one's the daughter and which one's the You took this seriously. You're a real blast from the past.
ARTHUR: You took this seriously. You're a real blast from the past.
PEGGY: It was Beth's idea.
MADDY: I wish I had the nerve. And the You always were a crazy little gal, Arthur, please don't call me Peg.
ARTHUR: You always were a crazy little gal, Arthur, please don't call me Peg.
PEGGY: Arthur, please don't call me Peg.
PEGGY: Beth's boyfriend is playing in the It must run in the family.
MADDY: It must run in the family.
BETH: What does?
ARTHUR: You and your mother both seem to fall for musicians. Maddy and Arthur laugh. Peggy is not amused. The hostess hands them their name tags and turns to welcome new arrivals. As they proceed down the hallway, Peggy SEES a distinguished man enter, RICHARD NORVIK. With him is his pregnant wife SHARON. Richard smiles at Peggy. She can't place him. Peggy turns back to her group and continues down the hall. The fifties MUSIC GETS LOUDER AND LOUDER.
ARTHUR: Hey, there's Terry and Leon.
MADDY: Peggy, would you find a table? We'll see you in a little while.
PEGGY: They walk away into the crowd, leaving Peggy alone.
PEGGY: I was once. Richard!? Richard Norvik? I didn't recognize you.
RICHARD: You look exactly the same.
PEGGY: I just did it for tonight. I don't normally dress like this.
SHARON: It's adorable.
RICHARD: Oh, I'm sorry.. Peggy Sue Kelcher, my wife Sharon.
PEGGY: Hello. Nice to meet you. Please call me Peggy. I'm Peggy Bodell Where's Charlie? I was in town about a year ago and caught one of his commercials. Really made me He's not here. We're getting Gee. I'm sorry to hear that. NEW VIEW — A large, beefy HAND is THRUST INTO FRAME.
RICHARD: Where's Charlie? I was in town about a year ago and caught one of his commercials. Really made me He's not here. We're getting Gee. I'm sorry to hear that. NEW VIEW — A large, beefy HAND is THRUST INTO FRAME.
PEGGY: He's not here. We're getting Gee. I'm sorry to hear that. NEW VIEW — A large, beefy HAND is THRUST INTO FRAME.
RICHARD: Gee. I'm sorry to hear that. NEW VIEW — A large, beefy HAND is THRUST INTO FRAME.
DOUG: Or, uhh, Richard? David Snell, Merrill Lynch. I read about the Cordex deal in Business Week. Thank you, Doug.
RICHARD: Thank you, Doug.
DOUG: Hi Peggy. How are you? How's INT. GYM VIEWS ON Carol and Walter. They play a standoffish game, each noticing the other, but pretending not to. We HEAR and SEE bits of conversations:
SANDY: ( gleeful ) I can't believe how she let herself go. She was so beautiful in high Everyone's got a gold Rolex. I had this one specially made in Richard is standing with three men. They hang on his every word. Beside them, a very DRUNK MAN overhears:
CAROL: Everyone's got a gold Rolex. I had this one specially made in Richard is standing with three men. They hang on his every word. Beside them, a very DRUNK MAN overhears:
RICHARD: .fifth generation core capacities are going to cause another shake—out in the smaller companies.
DRUNK MAN: ( to Richard ) Your damn computers put me out of business. You're a billionaire, and I'm a goddamn failure. Another man gently restrains the drunk and leads him away. Richard is shaken.
NEW VIEW: Carol and Peggy.
CAROL: ( chuckling ) Welcome to the singles scene.
PEGGY: I don't know how you do it. I've never even dated anybody but You just have to remember. men are like houses and trade upwards. I thought you had a pretty good marriage.
CAROL: You just have to remember. men are like houses and trade upwards. I thought you had a pretty good marriage.
PEGGY: We did for a long time. We just got married too young, and ended up blaming each other for missing out on things.
CAROL: So he started having affairs, and you got depressed. Peggy nods.
PEGGY: It's not the place. I don't buy Trapped in the same town forever. The price she would pay for her teenage lust.
CAROL: After you got knocked up, my mother didn't want me to talk to you. She thought it was contagious.
PEGGY: Oh, it's not so bad. I have two wonderful kids, my own business. Still, knowing what I know now, if I had the chance to do it all over again, I'd sure do things a lot Wouldn't we all.
CAROL: Wouldn't we all.
DOLORES: Madeline Hutton and Arthur Nagle were high school sweethearts. Married right after graduation, they're still together. In this day and age, that's remarkable. Maddy, Arthur, how does it feel to have missed the sexual revolution?
MADDY: ( incensed ) What kind of question is that? It has nothing to do with the reunion.
ARTHUR: ( thoughtfully — into mike ) I'm glad you asked, Dolores. Four years ago Maddy and I found Spiritual renewal.. That's what reunions are all about. Familiar faces, forgotten memories, ancient dance steps and music.the great time machine.
DOLORES: Spiritual renewal.. That's what reunions are all about. Familiar faces, forgotten memories, ancient dance steps and music.the great time machine.
CAROL: I never could keep up with you.
WALTER: ( with a quick tap step ) Just call me Walter the dancing dentist. Taps and caps. My INT. GYM — ANOTHER AREA PEGGY'S TABLE. Peggy sits with Richard, Sharon, and two other couples, TERRY and LISA and LEON and SANDY. A hand gently touches Peggy on the shoulder. Peggy turns around and sees ROSALIE TESTA, a small woman with close cropped hair. She's in a wheelchair. She wears a plastic badge: REUNION COMMITTEE.
ROSALIE: I remember that dress.
PEGGY: Rosalie Testa! 'HELLOS' all, around. Peggy helps Rosalie position her wheelchair at the table.
ROSALIE: I remember when you got that locket, too. You were so excited I think you showed it to the whole You have an incredible memory.
PEGGY: You have an incredible memory.
SHARON: It's beautiful. Does it open?
PEGGY: Yes. These are my children. But they're not babies anymore.
ROSALIE: ( laughing ) I think you got married when you were three.
DOLORES: Carol Pritchard Heath and Walter Getz were high school steadies who went their separate ways. After twenty years and four divorces between them, they meet again — Walter a successful dentist, Carol a mature career woman. Carol, why did you really come back for this Curiosity mostly. I heard you finally found a man of your own. Too bad he's married.
CAROL: Curiosity mostly. I heard you finally found a man of your own. Too bad he's married.
WALTER: ( cracking up ) Whoa! Cat fight! Purse war!
DOLORES: Hello everyone. Richard Norvik? I'm Dolores Dodge with KARP Radio. Could I have a minute of your time?
RICHARD: Sure. I remember you.
LEON: Let's play "Rate the Moment". I give tonight an eighty—seven. Better than sex, not as good as INT. GYM OFFICE Dolores has left. Walter lays out lines of cocaine on the back of the clipboard, as Carol watches.
WALTER: The best thing about being a dentist. Pure pharmaceutical grade. A couple of lines of this, I can drill my own teeth. moment ) INT. GYM — INTERCUT - SERIES OF SHOTS Joe would have enjoyed this. God, I still miss him.
CAROL: INT. GYM — INTERCUT - SERIES OF SHOTS
SERIOUS MAN: ( to his wife ) Joe would have enjoyed this. God, I still miss him.
MADDY: ( to Carol ) Peggy was a mess right after they separated, but I think she's coming out of it. It seems to be pretty friendly now..
CAROL: Sometimes it's easier when you hate I can't remember. Did I make it with you in high school?
LISA: Doesn't it feel like it was Youth is like an amputated leg. Long after it's gone, you still feel it.
TERRY: Youth is like an amputated leg. Long after it's gone, you still feel it.
WOMAN: My husband's a pig. But my son's in social work and my daughter, God bless her, is in India with Mother For the fitness generation, we've sure got a lot of porkers.
LEON: For the fitness generation, we've sure got a lot of porkers.
SANDY: I don't remember anything about the Breaking up was horrible. I said we had a very special attachment, he said, so does a Hoover.
LISA: Breaking up was horrible. I said we had a very special attachment, he said, so does a Hoover.
LEON: I don't know why I came back. I hated high school. The group around him all answer "So did I" or "Me too."
ROSALIE: I enjoyed it.
SHARON: Who's the one with the hair?
PEGGY: Michael Fitzsimmons. I had such a crush on him. Carol and Maddy join them, still panting from dancing.
CAROL: Hi, Peggy. God, that Walter Getz can still dance.
PEGGY: Your first boyfriend. What do you think? Any sparks left?
CAROL: Who knows. Remember. Whatever Walter wants.
PEGGY: Sharon Norvik this is Carol Heath, and Maddy Nagle. My oldest and dearest friends. Sharon's married to Richard.
CAROL: Lucky lady. Hi.
MADDY: ( looking at the photo ) Michael Fitzsimmons! Is he here?
PEGGY: No. I asked Rosalie. She couldn't track him down.
SHARON: He must have been quite a guy.
PEGGY: He was the only one in high school I wished I'd gone to bed with.
CAROL: The only one?
PEGGY: Well, besides Charlie, of course. We HOLD on the photo of Michael and.
SHARON: Peggy, would you please rescue Richard? Ask him to dance.
RICHARD: Are we through Dolores? Good.
DOLORES: Richard stands and helps Sharon to a chair.
RICHARD: ( to Sharon ) You'll be okay?
SHARON: Yes. You go ahead. Peggy and Richard head onto the crowded floor, and begin to The only time people like Dolores used to pay any attention to me was to laugh at me or insult me. That guy, Doug Snell, who shook my hand when we walked in, he used to call me a four—eyed worm.
RICHARD: The only time people like Dolores used to pay any attention to me was to laugh at me or insult me. That guy, Doug Snell, who shook my hand when we walked in, he used to call me a four—eyed worm.
PEGGY: Well, you showed them. You're rich and famous and successful. And you have a beautiful wife.
RICHARD: You were always friendly to me. I appreciated that. You know, this used to be a fantasy of mine.
PEGGY: What was?
RICHARD: Dancing with you.
PEGGY: You're a sweet man, Richard.
RICHARD: I guess part of us never really leaves high school.
PEGGY: You know, I never told anybody this, but I always had a feeling that when you die, before you go to heaven, you get a chance to fly around high school for a while. CAMERA PULLS BACK SLOWLY as Peggy and Richard become part of the sea of dancers, all Lost in nostalgic reverie.
BY DOOR: Charlie enters and stands by the door. He's tentative, looking around for his friends. Almost immediately he is joined by Arthur, Walter, Terry and Leon. They shake hands, glad to see each other.
TERRY: Here comes the life of the party.
TERRY: You know, they could've at least asked us to sing. We'd refuse, of course, but they could've asked us.
BY STAGE: Arthur walks onstage, placing a hatbox on the amplifier. He's a Chamber—of—Commerce type.
ARTHUR: ( into microphone ) Hello. Can I have your attention, The BUZZ in the room DIMS, Peggy and Richard head back to their table.
ARTHUR: I know it's getting kind of late, and some of you have a long drive home, so the reunion committee decided it was time for the moment you've all been waiting for. You don't know what you've been waiting for because we didn't tell you, but the committee has selected a King and Queen. Now don't worry, I took care of it so the band's gonna keep playing for at least another hour, and my old pal Judge Crystal said that the bar can stay open as long as we want. Everyone applauds.
ARTHUR: Now back to business. The members of the committee have given this a lot of thought and decided on the two people who best represent the spirit of Buchanan High's Class of '60. The king is someone who, in more ways than one, has come a long, long way since he left here.
ARTHUR: We're proud to welcome him back, Richard Norvik! Come on up here, King Richard! The band PLAYS a FANFARE and DRUM ROLL. Richard gets up, and walks to the stage as everyone APPLAUDS. The band PLAYS a chorus of "Get a Job."
WALTER: ( kidding ) I demand a recount. ( laughs )
RICHARD: Sharon and I thank you all for making us feel so welcome. It's good to be back. MORE APPLAUSE as Richard steps back.
ARTHUR: Every king deserves a queen. Now, we had a Lot at worthwhile candidates. And I don't want any of you ladies to feel left out, 'cause you're all beautiful. But when we sent out the invitations, we didn't mention anything about this being a costume party. Peggy's embarrassed reaction, realizing everyone's looking at Maybe we should have, 'cause just looking at her brings it all back for us. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you our queen, Peggy Sue Kelcher Bodell. Come on up here, Peggy Sue. The band begins the song PEGGY SUE. Peggy looks pained. She doesn't move.
ARTHUR: Maybe we should have, 'cause just looking at her brings it all back for us. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you our queen, Peggy Sue Kelcher Bodell. Come on up here, Peggy Sue. The band begins the song PEGGY SUE. Peggy looks pained. She doesn't move.
CAROL: They're waiting. Come on.
PEGGY: ( close to tears ) I can't. It's all too much.
CAROL: Go on. You can do it. Charlie and Beth stand together: Beth is worried about Peggy. CAMERA TRACKS Peggy as she haltingly makes her way to the stage. As she does, she notices another blow-up on the wall: Peggy and Charlie, as King and Queen of the 1960 prom. Arthur gives the crown to Richard who places it on Peggy's head. He kisses her cheek and stands back, beaming.
PEGGY: ( into mike, overwhelmed ) Thank you.. Thank you very much. The lights dim, leaving Peggy in the spotlight. Continued APPLAUSE as the singer steps up to his mike and begins to SING the song PEGGY SUE.
NURSE: Would you like your Twinkie now? Peggy takes the Twinkie, staring at it blankly. Looking around she SEES students giving blood to the Red Cross. Several have tubes in their arms. Nurses attend to them. Carol sits up drinking a cup of juice, waving weakly at Peggy. Maddy, now a brunette, slowly rolls down her sleeve. Arthur, Dolores, Walter and several others from the reunion. Everyone is younger but instantly recognizable.. Charlie walks over to Peggy. He grins at her, revealing wax vampire fangs in his mouth, hair Brylcreemed to death.
CHARLIE: I vant to suck your blood. I also vant to suck your Twinkie.
PEGGY: Charlie! Am I dead?
CHARLIE: No. You are the undead. You will live forever if you give me your Come on, let's have it. You hate them anyway. Mechanically, Peggy hands over the Twinkie. Charlie bends over to nuzzle her neck. The nurse's hand COMES INTO FRAME and grabs Charlie by the scruff of the neck, pulling him up.
NURSE: Young man, stop that. The SCHOOL BELL RINGS.
CHARLIE: Hey! I just made a deposit in your blood bank. Now I want to make a I think it's time for your next class -
NURSE: I think it's time for your next class -
CHARLIE: I'm changing banks! Charlie walks away towards Walter and Arthur. Peggy gazes after him, his body blocking her view of a portion of a banner hung on the wall. It reads: "Support the Buchanan High Blood Drive." As Charlie exits, the final words come into "Spring 1960." Peggy gasps. She begins to tremble.
NURSE: Lie back down and take a deep What's going on? Where am I?
PEGGY: What's going on? Where am I?
NURSE: You passed out for a moment. Nothing to worry about.
PEGGY: How did I get here? Maddy and Carol approach, carrying their books.
NURSE: Why don't you let your friends help Take her into the washroom and splash some cold water on her face. That should perk her up.
MADDY: Yes, ma' am. They help Peggy up and lead her across the gym.
CAROL: ( to Peggy ) Wanna smoke? That's the worst thing for her.
PEGGY: No thanks. I gave them up years Maddy and Carol react as Peggy takes a closer look at herself and the girls' reflections. She places a hand to her throat, noticing the locket is gone.
PEGGY: Where is it?
CAROL: Were taking you back to the nurse.
PEGGY: Maddy, what did you do to your Maddy looks in the mirror.
CAROL: We're going to take you home.
PEGGY: That's okay. I'm sure I'll remember the way.
CAROL: I'll call you Later.
PEGGY: Yes. Let's stay in touch. Peggy walks up to the door, a sleepwalker in suspended animation. She waits a beat and knocks softly.
PEGGY: ( shuddering ) Peggy Sue.
PEGGY: ( helplessly ) The nurse called and said you'd be coming home. Peggy stares blankly at her for a beat, then holds up the note, as she moves towards her mother.
MRS. KELCHER: The nurse called and said you'd be coming home. Peggy stares blankly at her for a beat, then holds up the note, as she moves towards her mother.
PEGGY: I have a note.
MRS. KELCHER: How do you feel?
PEGGY: I'm excused.
MRS. KELCHER: Why don't you go lie down for a Peggy embraces her mother, holding on for dear life, inhaling her scent.
PEGGY: Peggy embraces her mother, holding on for dear life, inhaling her scent.
PEGGY: Chanel Number Five. That always reminds me of home.
MRS. KELCHER: Of course, dear. You're home now.
PEGGY: I'm home now.
PEGGY: Okay, I'm alone now. Is anyone She opens the closet door expectantly, then closes it shaking her head.
PEGGY: No. This is crazy. Is somebody going to tell me what's going on? Why me? What happened? You don't have to show up. I don't have to see you. Just send me a sign. Thanks a lot. 1 guess I'm on my NANCY, Peggy's twelve—year—old sister, peeks in the room.
PEGGY: Nancy! Come here. Nancy tentatively approaches. Peggy hugs her.
NANCY: What are you doing?
PEGGY: I'm just happy to see you.
NANCY: Come on! Mom said you were sick. You're never happy to see me.
PEGGY: I'm sorry about that. I really want us to be closer. I have enough unresolved relationships in my. Teenagers are weird. And you're the Let's do something together.. Do you want to play Monopoly? Or Careers. Clue. Snakes and Okay, what do you want? What dumb favor do you want me to do?
NANCY: Teenagers are weird. And you're the Let's do something together.. Do you want to play Monopoly? Or Careers. Clue. Snakes and Okay, what do you want? What dumb favor do you want me to do?
PEGGY: Let's do something together.. Do you want to play Monopoly? Or Careers. Clue. Snakes and Okay, what do you want? What dumb favor do you want me to do?
NANCY: ( suspicious ) Okay, what do you want? What dumb favor do you want me to do?
PEGGY: It's unbelievable. The man never Look at Kenny Rossi. Isn't he dreamy? I wish he'd break up with Arlene. She thinks she's so great.
NANCY: Look at Kenny Rossi. Isn't he dreamy? I wish he'd break up with Arlene. She thinks she's so great.
PEGGY: Don't eat the red ones.
NANCY: Why not? They're my favorite.
PEGGY: They're bad for you. They cause.red lips. ( red dye 2 ) Nancy react, as Peggy stands. CAMERA TRACKS HER to the den.
DEN: Peggy opens the liquor cabinet and takes out a bottle of Scotch and a glass, noticing the family photos on the wall..
PEGGY: Can't hurt. I'm already dead. She belts down several drinks.
LIVING ROOM: Peggy collapses on the naugahyde recliner. Unexpectedly, it leans back, shooting Peggy's legs up.
MRS. KELCHER: ( from the kitchen ) I put your laundry on your beds. Don't forget to put it away.
NANCY: What's for dinner?
MRS. KELCHER: Yeech, not again. Peggy leans forward in the recliner eating the candies. Bemused, she looks at Nancy watching TV and into the kitchen where her mother is slapping together meatloaf.
NANCY: Yeech, not again. Peggy leans forward in the recliner eating the candies. Bemused, she looks at Nancy watching TV and into the kitchen where her mother is slapping together meatloaf.
MR. KELCHER: Girls? Evelyn? Who left this thing He turns and heads back outside.
MRS. KELCHER: What is it? Mrs. Kelcher and Nancy follow him outside. Peggy staggers to the front door and leans against the door jamb looking out at the family.
MR. KELCHER: What do you think?
NANCY: Like wow! Wait till I tell Diane. She's always bragging about her father's Cadillac.
MR. KELCHER: Peggy Sue, what do you think?
PEGGY: Oh, Daddy. You were always doing things like that. That's funny! That's really funny. She staggers over to the car and falls against it laughing. Mr. Kelcher crosses to her and catches a whiff of her breath.
MR. KELCHER: Young lady, you're drunk!
PEGGY: ( laughing ) Just a little. I've had a tough I don't see the humor in this. Go to your room immediately. You're ( tipsy ) Grounded? Ha! The story of my life. I don't wanna go to my room. I wanna import Japanese cars. I wanna go to Liverpool and discover the Jack, take it easy. She gave blood at school today. Maybe she's just a little light—headed.
MR. KELCHER: I don't see the humor in this. Go to your room immediately. You're Grounded? Ha! The story of my life. I don't wanna go to my room. I wanna import Japanese cars. I wanna go to Liverpool and discover the Jack, take it easy. She gave blood at school today. Maybe she's just a little light—headed.
PEGGY: ( tipsy ) Grounded? Ha! The story of my life. I don't wanna go to my room. I wanna import Japanese cars. I wanna go to Liverpool and discover the Jack, take it easy. She gave blood at school today. Maybe she's just a little light—headed.
MRS. KELCHER: Jack, take it easy. She gave blood at school today. Maybe she's just a little light—headed.
MR. KELCHER: This is not giving blood. This is Dad, I never knew you had a sense of humor.
PEGGY: Dad, I never knew you had a sense of humor.
MR. KELCHER: Evelyn, put her to bed.
MRS. KELCHER: My little baby. Don't try to grow up so fast.
PEGGY: Oh Mom, I forgot you were ever so CLOSE ON PEGGY She hears her mother walk down the stairs.
PEGGY: Let's get physical!. Let's get Nancy comes in dressed for school.
PEGGY: Good morning. Nancy goes to Peggy's closet.
NANCY: Can I borrow this sweater?
PEGGY~: Yeah, but take good care of it. I'm saving it for my daughter.. She loves this stuff.
MRS. KELCHER: What happened to your hair? You have such a pretty face. Why are you always trying to cover it up?
PEGGY: Oh. I forgot. Mrs. Kelcher takes an elastic band from around the faucet and hands it to Peggy as she sits at the table. Peggy makes a You're looking pretty chipper this I'm still here, aren't I? I may as well enjoy myself. I'm going to go to school Dad, I want to apologize for yesterday. The car is a classic. Use it in the best of health.
MRS. KELCHER: You're looking pretty chipper this I'm still here, aren't I? I may as well enjoy myself. I'm going to go to school Dad, I want to apologize for yesterday. The car is a classic. Use it in the best of health.
PEGGY: I'm still here, aren't I? I may as well enjoy myself. I'm going to go to school Dad, I want to apologize for yesterday. The car is a classic. Use it in the best of health.
MR. KELCHER: Thank you.. I accept your apology with the hope that what went on yesterday will never happen again.
PEGGY: That would be impossible.
MR. KELCHER: You're so young, this is not the time to start acquiring bad habits.
PEGGY: Mom, is there any coffee left? Mrs. Kelcher begins to pour the coffee, then pulls back, spilling some on Mr. Kelcher.
MRS. KELCHER: When did you start drinking coffee?
PEGGY: Oh. Ah.recently. All the kids drink it.
MR. KELCHER: If all the kids jumped off a bridge, would you do that too?
PEGGY: I think I'm way ahead of them.
NANCY: Pass the toast, please. Peggy passes Nancy the toast.
NANCY: And the butter.
PEGGY: You know, you two are wonderful parents. I'm really going to try to behave myself.
MR. KELCHER: Well, at least you stopped calling me Daddy—O.
NANCY: ( correcting him ) Mom, sit down for a minute. This is so nice, all of us being together again like this.
PEGGY: Mom, sit down for a minute. This is so nice, all of us being together again like this.
NANCY: Can I tell Diane that Peggy Sue got drunk or is that a deep family How does Diane like her braces?
MRS. KELCHER: How does Diane like her braces?
R31.NCY: She hates them. Nobody likes braces. Thy just call you junkyard face and Miss Metal Mouth. I gotta Nancy jumps up, grabbing her lunch on the counter, as she exits. "GOOD—BYES' all around. We HEAR a HORN HONKING outside —— a five—note musical phrase —— BE—BOP—A—LU—BOP.
PEGGY: Oh yeah. Charlie. How am I going to handle him?
MRS. KELCHER: What's the matter? Did you two have a fight?.
PEGGY: Sort of.
MRS. KELCHER: What about?
PEGGY: The house payments.
CHARLIE: How do you feel?
PEGGY: Pretty strange. Peggy hesitates, unsure how to handle her accumulated ambivalence towards Charlie.
CHARLIE: Come on. Get in. I can take care of Peggy warily gets in. Charlie leans over to kiss her, but she pushes him away. No dice.
PEGGY: Not now, Charlie. I've got a headache. Get used to the word. Roll it around your tongue for a Hey, I can take a hint. You look great today. Charlie starts the car, burns rubber and peels out.
CHARLIE: Hey, I can take a hint. You look great today. Charlie starts the car, burns rubber and peels out.
PEGGY: You drive like a maniac!
CHARLIE: I call this the staccato.
CHARLIE: ( earnest ) Not that I'm glad you were sick, but I had a chance to do some thinking last night.
PEGGY: Oh yeah?
CHARLIE: You know. About what we said on Tuesday. It makes a lot of sense.
PEGGY: Refresh my memory.
CHARLIE: How could you forget? We talk about seeing other people and you forget?
PEGGY: Maybe I blocked it out.
CHARLIE: I can understand that.. But please don't start crying again.
CHARLIE: It's not going to be forever. I figure three years is long enough. I can see it the music pans out. And right after graduation we should start seeing other people. Kind of comparison shop before we settle down and get married. Know what I mean?
PEGGY: Why wait?
CHARLIE: ( surprised ) Well, we got the prom coming up, all these parties. We shouldn't upset our parents?
PEGGY: They'll learn to live with it. Peggy exits the car and heads towards the school. Charlie sits, stunned.
CHARLIE: You're more shook up than you want to admit. You'll get used to it, we'll still see each other 2, 3 times a week. Charlie opens the locker. Peggy watches carefully, memorizing tho combination. He takes out a few books as Peggy notices her schedule on the locker door.
CHARLIE: Want me to drive you home later?
PEGGY: Would you?
CHARLIE: ( growling ) Would I?!! Why I oughta. Unaccountably, this cracks Charlie up. He walks away laughing. Peggy looks completely puzzled. She is surrounded by a sea of people, who say hello. She can't remember their INT. CLASSROOM - MORNING We SEE Peggy, Maddy, Dolores, Arthur and Carol, singing MY COUNTRY TIS OF THEE. They all mumble, except for Peggy who delivers a stirring rendition. The class thinks she's crazy. Peggy's decided to have a good time. Announcements begin over the PA system. No one pays attention, except Peggy.
PEGGY: Where's Rosalie Testa?
CAROL: Probably at the diving meet.
DOLORES: Did you study for the test?
PEGGY: ( horrified ) INT. CLASSROOM - TWENTY MINUTES LATER MR. SNELGROVE, an officious little creep, is standing by his All right, class. Time's up. He walks along the aisles collecting the papers. When he gets to Peggy he picks up her blank sheet.
SNELGROVE: All right, class. Time's up. He walks along the aisles collecting the papers. When he gets to Peggy he picks up her blank sheet.
SNELGROVE: What's the meaning of this, Peggy Mr. Snelgrove, I happen to know that in the future, I will never have the slightest use for algebra. And I speak from experience. The class gasps, a few students APPLAUD, and Mr. Snelgrove's jaw drops.
PEGGY: ( patiently ) Mr. Snelgrove, I happen to know that in the future, I will never have the slightest use for algebra. And I speak from experience. The class gasps, a few students APPLAUD, and Mr. Snelgrove's jaw drops.
MICHAEL: Santiago comes back, with nothing — there's no meat on the bone. It's Hemingway's ego defending itself again; he's trying to prove he can still perform.
GILFOND: .What Hemingway's saying, Michael, is that we are alone — that when we go out too far we're vulnerable. The irony, that Santiago is beaten by the sharks, doesn't make him less of a hero. THE BELL RINGS. The class begins to exit.
GILFOND: Over the weekend read the first four chapters of The Great Gatsbv. I hope you enjoy it. Peggy hesitates. She walks up to Gilfond.
PEGGY: Mr. Gilfond, can I talk to you?
GILFOND: Sure, Peggy Sue. What's on your I just wanted to tell you how much I enjoy your class. You taught me a lot and. you're a very fine That's very kind of you. Thank you.
PEGGY: I just wanted to tell you how much I enjoy your class. You taught me a lot and. you're a very fine That's very kind of you. Thank you.
GILFOND: That's very kind of you. Thank you.
PEGGY: Thank you. Um, I also think you're LUNCH AREA Walter, Charlie and Arthur sit at a long table.
LUNCH AREA: Walter, Charlie and Arthur sit at a long table.
WALTER: Why does your father take inventory on Sunday night? That's poker night. You always got out of it I've got to string him along for a while. It's for his own good.
CHARLIE: I've got to string him along for a while. It's for his own good.
ARTHUR: But you're not going into his business. When're you going to tell Soon. I can't tall everybody everything all at once. Peggy, Carol and Maddy walk over and sit down with trays. Peggy deliberately avoids the empty sear next to Charlie. They're uneasy with each other. Peggy looks with disgust at the slop on the tray.
CHARLIE: Soon. I can't tall everybody everything all at once. Peggy, Carol and Maddy walk over and sit down with trays. Peggy deliberately avoids the empty sear next to Charlie. They're uneasy with each other. Peggy looks with disgust at the slop on the tray.
WALTER: Strange rumors are sweeping the school about you.
PEGGY: ( wary ) What do you mean?
WALTER: Prom what I hear, you really gave it to old Smellgrove.
MADDY: I was there. She told the creep off right to his face.
ARTHUR: Atta girl, Peg.
PEGGY: Arthur, please don't call me Peg.
ARTHUR: Why I oughta. Charlie, Walter and Arthur crack up.
PEGGY: I don't get it.
CAROL: That's because you' re not a total moron like they are.
MADDY: It's some stupid old movie thing they just started.
WALTER: That's enough out of you, little I'll throw the book at you!
CHARLIE: I'll throw the book at you!
ARTHUR: Why I oughta. The boys crack up again. The girls think they're hopeless. Peggy SEES Michael Fitzsimmons, buried in a book. He looks at Peggy with a penetrating gaze, then back down. Richard Norvik, also sitting alone, working with a slide ruler on a book of mathematical puzzles, dressed in early Peggy gets up from the table. She looks back to Charlie and the table.
PEGGY: I'll be right back.
ANOTHER ANGLE: She's not wasting any time. Peggy Sue and Mr. Square Root?
WALTER: She's not wasting any time. Peggy Sue and Mr. Square Root?
CHARLIE: He's a nice guy. You know he's writing a book?
WALTER: Oh, a book. Excuse me for a
ANOTHER ANGLE: Peggy stands over Richard. He looks up nervously, pushing his glasses up the bridge of his nose, a constant habit.
PEGGY: Congratulations on the math contest, Richard.
RICHARD: It really wasn't that difficult. Doug Snell ( of Merrill—Lynch, at the reunion ) walks past.
DOUG: What're you doing, Peggy Sue? Fishing for four—eyed worms?
PEGGY: Get lost you macho shmuck. Doug and Richard react.
PEGGY: I have to talk to you. It's very I'm not doing any tutoring this year. I'm too busy.
RICHARD: I'm not doing any tutoring this year. I'm too busy.
PEGGY: It's not that. Can we meet after school? Please?
RICHARD: All right. I'll be in the physics lab. Make it four—thirty. I have a rocket club meeting.
MADDY: Therefore, the key to a successful children's party can be summed up in one word — planning.. With proper planning, a successful, inexpensive happy birthday party can be had by all. Including the She walks back to her seat.
MISS OTTO: That was very comprehensive, Madeline. Thank you.. Now. Peggy Sue, your topic was 'How To Choose A Nursery School.' Are you All.. Okay. Sure. Peggy walks to the front and faces the class, smiling primly.
PEGGY: All.. Okay. Sure. Peggy walks to the front and faces the class, smiling primly.
PEGGY: Choosing a good nursery school can be one of the most important decisions you can make. It will often determine your child's attitude towards education and Of course, the lessons learned are primarily social —— sharing, being considerate of others. And they're so cute when they're little. They bring you back their Little masterpieces every day and you put 'em on the refrigerator door. They're so proud, and their names are all misspelled. Scott would always print his S backwards, and Beth would make her sweet little flowers. Peggy wipes away a tear. At the stunned reaction of the class and Miss Otto.
DOLORES: ( to Peggy ) What a girl. What a twirl. You know, Peg—Leggy, you're gonna get demoted to hall monitor -
HEAD MAJORETTE: Come on, Peggy Sue.. Try it again. You haven't been practicing. Peggy gamely tries it again and manages at least to catch the baton and continue twirling. She continues, enjoying herself. Michael runs by, the lonely long distance runner.
CHARLIE: Looking good out there.
PEGGY: I noticed you were giving me the silent treatment at lunch. I guess I deserved it. I've been thinking about my three year plan and I think it's unworkable. I must have been delirious.
CHARLIE: I noticed you were giving me the silent treatment at lunch. I guess I deserved it. I've been thinking about my three year plan and I think it's unworkable. I must have been delirious.
PEGGY: I thought it had a lot of merit.
CHARLIE: In the abstract maybe. Get a grip on yourself! But when I imagine you going out with other guys, I feel. ah.
PEGGY: Rejected, worthless, miserable.
CHARLIE: Yeah. Like that.
PEGGY: Peggy turns, and walks away. Charlie looks miserable.
PEGGY: What a great kite.
RICHARD: I'm writing a book on kite construction. What did you want to talk about?
PEGGY: I want to ask you a question. Do you think.time travel is Are you doing some kind of science Sort of.
RICHARD: Are you doing some kind of science Sort of.
PEGGY: Sort of.
RICHARD: Well. in a Newtonian framework, the possibilities were limited, but with the advent of relativity theory, the idea of absolute time can no longer be reasonably Peggy hasn't understood a word.
RICHARD: And then, there's Richard's What's that?
PEGGY: What's that?
RICHARD: That's my own theory based on a Mexican food called the burrito. I had it once when my parents took me to Disneyland.
PEGGY: I know what a burrito is.
RICHARD: Well, I think time is like a burrito. Sometimes it just folds over on itself and one part touches the other.
PEGGY: What's inside?
RICHARD: You can till it with whatever you want. From illusions to memory, from experience to innocence, from happiness to the entire universes
PEGGY: So you think time travel is possible? For people?
RICHARD: Absolutely. People, dogs, Listen, you've gotta keep this a secret. You can't tell a soul. Okay. I promise.
PEGGY: Listen, you've gotta keep this a secret. You can't tell a soul. Okay. I promise.
RICHARD: Okay. I promise.
PEGGY: This is serious. Nobody can know. Ah, I've returned from the future. I traveled back here 25 years.
RICHARD: You probably are crazy. Wait a minute. Is this some kind of joke? I know what you all, think of me.
RICHARD: Oh yeah?
PEGGY: You have a blind grandfather. One day you're going to invent a machine that reads books for blind people. I read about it. You're going to be famous. You're going to invent a lot of things.
RICHARD: How, did you know about my Because I'm telling you the truth. I know what's going to happen. There's going to be test tube babies and heart transplants. And an American named Neil Armstrong is going to walk on the moon. On July
PEGGY: Because I'm telling you the truth. I know what's going to happen. There's going to be test tube babies and heart transplants. And an American named Neil Armstrong is going to walk on the moon. On July
RICHARD: Holy Toledo! That's six years ahead of schedule!
RICHARD: But when did you leave? Are you here until then? Were you there until now? What direction are you going in? Are you a moving point on an infinite line extending into the past? Can anyone do it?
PEGGY: I don't know. Oblivious, Peggy and Richard walk by Shower's Cafe. Inside, Dolores and Carol see them.
RICHARD: I'd be very careful if I were you. You don' t want to fall into the clutches of some madman with plans to manipulate your brain.
PEGGY: That's why I was getting a What I really think is that I had a heart attack at the reunion and EXT. RICHARD'S DRIVEWAY You look pretty good for a corpse.
RICHARD: You look pretty good for a corpse.
PEGGY: Come on, Richard, I'm serious.
RICHARD: You're giving me the creeps.
PEGGY: Am I dead or not?
RICHARD: There's one way to find out. Richard stops and throws down his books. He steps in front of Peggy, throwing down her books, dragging her to the curb.
PEGGY: What're you doing?
RICHARD: Confucious says, The way out is through the door. There's a truck. There's your door. A large truck speeds towards them.
RICHARD: Step in front of the truck! If you're dead, it won't matter. The truck'll go right through you. Go ahead! You're dead! Peggy takes one step off the curb. The truck is getting closer. The truck BLOWS A LOUD SUSTAINED WAIL.
PEGGY: No! I don't want to die!
RICHARD: Okay, you're not dead, but according to every law of science what you say happened to you is What if it's beyond science? What it it's God?
PEGGY: What if it's beyond science? What it it's God?
RI CHARD: Einstein said "God doesn't play dice with the universe." I'm a scientist. I believe that there's an order to things. Why would God bring you back as a high school I don't know.
PEGGY: I don't know.
RICHARD: You're a molecule in chaos, a discontinuent aberration. Maybe you've just got powers of precognition. Well, maybe you're just out of whack.
PEGGY: I told you, I've already lived my life. I don't know how or why I'm here, but you have to help me get back. I want to get back to my real All right, I'll work on it, I'll, do some research. But in the meantime, don't get crazy.
RICHARD: All right, I'll work on it, I'll, do some research. But in the meantime, don't get crazy.
PEGGY: I'm trying. I'll see you tomorrow.
RICHARD: What if you're not here tomorrow?
PEGGY: Who was that man?
MRS. KELCHER: It was nobody. Ah. he's a poll, taker. I'm thinking of voting Democrat this year. But don't mention it to your father. How was school today?
PEGGY: It was great to see everybody again. But it's so boring and regimented. Most of what they teach is useless. The worst thing was The TELEPHONE RINGS.
MRS. KELCHER: Would you get that, dear?
PEGGY: Sure, Mom. Peggy gasps. Mrs. Kelcher turns to her.
MRS. KELCHER: Peggy! What's the matter? Who is It's Grandma. I can't talk to her I'm sorry, Grandma. Peggy hands the receiver to her mother and runs out of the room sobbing. Her first confrontation with mortality.
PEGGY: ( shaken ) It's Grandma. I can't talk to her ( into phone ) I'm sorry, Grandma. Peggy hands the receiver to her mother and runs out of the room sobbing. Her first confrontation with mortality.
MRS. KELCHER: What happened to you?
PEGGY: I had a dream that Grandma died.
MRS. KELCHER: Well, she is getting on, but she's fine. I told her you weren't feeling well yesterday. She called to find out how you are.
PEGGY: She did? I love her so much, and I haven't seen her in such a long time. And Grandpa Barney. Is he all, right?
MRS. KELCHER: Yes, he's fine, too. You saw them at Easter.
PEGGY: I'm sorry, Mom. I'll call Grandma back and apologize.
MRS. KELCHER: That's a good girl. I hate to see you so upset. Tell me, sweetheart. Are you having problems with Charlie? You mentioned something this morning.
PEGGY: I'm confused about a lot of things right now. Charlie's only one of Two beats.
MRS. KELCHER: Is Charlie pressuring you to do things you don't think you should be doing?
PEGGY: What do you mean?
MRS. KELCHER: Peggy, do you know what a penis is? Stay away from it.
CLOSER VIEW: He's wearing a hideous orange and turquoise sweater.
MR. KELCHER: Hello, Charlie.
CHARLIE: Hello, sir. How are things at the hat store?
MR. KELCHER: Fine, thanks. Come on in. I want to talk to you. CAMERA TRACKS Charlie and Mr. Kelcher into the living room. Mr. Kelcher sits on his recliner, Charlie, nervous, on the couch. Nancy is on the rug, studying.
MR. KELCHER: You may have noticed that Peggy Sue's been acting a little strange She's distorted.
NANCY: She's distorted.
CHARLIE: Yes, sir.
MR. KELCHER: She seems confused, irresponsible, overemotional. My wife says that's the way girls act sometimes.
NANCY: She's almost a juvenile delinquent. Mr. Kelcher gives Nancy a look and points to the door. Without her father noticing, Nancy creeps up behind him and makes rabbit ears behind his head. Charlie tries hard not to laugh. Nancy continues to clown.
CHARLIE: Yes, sir. But that's what I like about her. She's not like all the other girls at school.
MR. KELCHER: Charles, in spite of your adolescent infatuation with music, we've always regarded you a a fine young man. We've trusted you with our daughter.
CHARLIE: Yes, sir. Trust is a two—way street. In the past two years I've been pleased to note that you and Mrs. Kelcher have, uh, fulfilled your sacred trust of being good parents to the, uh, woman I plan to take off your hands. Mr. Kelcher looks as if he's witnessing the latest attack of teenage weirdness.
PEGGY: ( worrying ) Oh, Beth. There's a knock at the door. Peggy quickly hides the joints. Mrs. Kelcher opens the door.
MRS. KELCHER: Charlie's downstairs. Why aren't you ready?
PEGGY: For what?
MRS. KELCHER: Maddy's party.
PEGGY: I don't feel very festive.
MRS. KELCHER: You accepted an invitation, Maddy's one of your best friends, and I baked the Rice Krispie squares. Peggy laughs.
MRS. KELCHER: Enjoy yourself! This is the best time of your life. And the sooner you learn to handle Charlie the better. Get dressed. Mrs. Kelcher closes the door.
MR. KELCHER: We think this party might cheer her up. Just make sure you know what's expected of you.
CHARLIE: What would that be, sir?
MR. KELCHER: Show her a good time, but for God's sake restrain yourself.
CHARLIE: ( surprised ) Of course.
PEGGY: Where did you get that sweater?
CHARLIE: Great, isn't it?
PEGGY: It's really Fifties. You sort of clash with the world.
CHARLIE: Hey! What's the fun of being a teenager if you can't dress weird? And we're going to have fun tonight, right?
PEGGY: Right. I promised my mother.
CHARLIE: Is this slow enough for you?
PEGGY: ( serious ) Charlie, how are you?
CHARLIE: I'm fine Peggy Sue. And how are you? Are we talking on the phone? Are we pen pals?
PEGGY: Seriously. What's it like to be Charlie looks thoughtful, then guns the engine.
CHARLIE: It's great. I cleaned the car, do you like it? Oh, I got tickets for Fabian on your birthday, you like him, right? He's cool. Eighteen is half of thirty six. It's "Gentlemen start your engines", vroom, like I'm gassed up ready for the race. I've got the girl, I've got the car, I've got the talent, but I don't know. Do I date, get married, join the army, cut a record, go to college? I got a million choices, but nobody teaches you how to choose. But it's different for a girl. You're Lucky. You just have to wait for me.
DOUG: Gol'darnit, dag nab it, dad burn it, dad blame it.
CHARLIE: Here comes the life of the party.
LEON: Goes down, smooth. Hey, look what the cat dragged in.
CHARLIE: Have no fear. Charlie's here.
WALTER: Oh, it's you is it.
TERRY: Jumping Jehosophat!
DOUG: It's a miracle!
PEGGY: Hi, guys.
ARTHUR: Now that's a purty little heifer.
CHARLIE: Why Pete's the best darn cook on the Panhandle!
PEGGY: Why I oughta! The boys all crack up.
CHARLIE: Ready. Set. Go - Arthur rapidly chug—a—lugs the entire beer and immediately recites from memory as the boys urge him on:
ARTHUR: ( going: for speed ) Hi—Yo Silver! A cloud of dust, a galloping horse with the speed of light, a hearty Hi-Yo Silver! The Lone Ranger! With his faithful Indian companion Tonto, the daring and resourceful Masked Rider of the Plains came to Earth with powers- and abilities far beyond those of mortal men. Return with us now to those thrilling days of yesteryear - from out of the. Arthur lets out a huge belch. Everybody cracks up.
LEON: You doorknob! You threw in Too bad. Close to a record.
CHARLIE: Too bad. Close to a record.
ARTHUR: ( foaming at the nose ) I hate it when the beer comes out my nose.
ANOTHER AREA: Peggy, Carol and Maddy bemusedly watching the boys.
MADDY: Can you believe I want to marry that dork.
CAROL: Why do guys do such stupid things?
PEGGY: You know, I never could figure that one out.
MADDY: I was thinking of four ushers and four bridesmaids.
WALTER: The Yanks got the hitting but the Sox got the defense.
CAROL: What are your colors, going to be?
ARTHUR: I'l1 take Kubek and Richardson over Fox and Aparicio.
MADDY: I'm thinking of pink and green.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Dolores and Terry standing in a corner kissing passionately.
CHARLIE: Pitching wins pennants. The Tigers got four potential twenty game You'd be surprised at how many girls in school aren't virgins.
CAROL: You'd be surprised at how many girls in school aren't virgins.
CHARLIE: Don Mossi, Frank Lary, Jim Sunning and Paul Foytack.
ARTHUR: And now, direct from three weeks of rehearsal in Walter's garage, four guys who have dedicated their lives to becoming the greatest singing group in the world. ( beat ) Charlie, Walter, Leon and Terry. The Definitions. Applause as the group enters from the furnace room. They all wear black pants and iridescent sharkskin jackets. Charlie is in the center of the group as they position themselves.
CHARLIE: One, two, three-. The group begins to SING an A CAPELLA version of RAMA LAMA DING DONG ( or I WONDER WHY ). Charlie sings lead, backed up by the other three. Walter dances insane, Temptation—like steps. The crowd huddles around them, clapping and grooving. Peggy is on the planet of lost innocence, removed and melancholy.
CAROL: Charlie really has a great voice.
MADDY: Maybe they'll be the next Dion and the Belmonts.
PEGGY: Don't get your hopes up.
MADDY: Come on, where's your enthusiasm? Charlie SINGS directly to Peggy, grinning at her. In spite of herself, she smiles back at him. She's starting to realize why she fell in love with him. He's irresistible.
PEGGY: He is kind of cute, isn't he?
CAROL: Yeah. You're so lucky. He really loves you, too. He's always telling Walter how wonderful you are.
PEGGY: He does? The group finishes the song. Charlie blows Peggy a kiss. The crowd APPLAUDS, including Peggy. Dolores joins Peggy, Carol and Maddy.
DOLORES: Carol and I saw you with that creep, Richard, today.
PEGGY: First of all, Richard is not a creep. He happens to be an exceptional person. If any of you gave him half a chance, you'd find that out.
DOLORES: God, Peggy, you're so unformed you're practically fetal. You're just taking pity on him 'cause he has no friends.
PEGGY: Dolores, can't you be a little kinder to people? You don't even know the boy. If you weren't so neurotic and insecure, maybe you'd shut up for a while and show some Are you for real?
DOLORES: Are you for real?
PEGGY: Touchy, touchy! Dolores storms away.
MADDY: ( to Peggy ) I don't know what you said to her, but I wish I'd said it. Charlie and Walter walk over and accept "BRAVOS" from the girls. Walter does his James Dean imitation.
PEGGY: Charlie, what do you think of Richard Norvik?
CHARLIE: Is he gonna help you with that physics stuff?
PEGGY: He's trying.
CHARLIE: Hey! Who needs physics when we've got chemistry?
PEGGY: ( charmed ) Come on, let's dance.
WALTER: Put on some make—out music, and kill the lights. We HEAR a RECORD SCRATCH. A slow song begins. The lights are dimmed. Coupler begin to slow dance. Charlie holds Peggy close, barely moving. Peggy is misty—eyed, moved by being in Charlie's arms again.
CHARLIE: There isn't a girl in school that can hold a candle to you..
PEGGY: You're pretty charming when you want to be.
CHARLIE: Yeah I know. But I don't have to flatter you. It just feels right. You're the perfect girl for me. As in is, was and always will be. I'm glad dancing was invented. You know the first dances were rituals. Like fertility rites. As they dance Charlie gets embarrassed by an erection, and moves his hips away from Peggy. She surprises him by grabbing his tush and pulling him into her.
DOLORES: Hey Terry, what is that? Did Peggy make it up? I've never seen that on Bandstand.
TERRY: What if we're witnessing the end of touch dancing?
PEGGY: Mmm. This is nice. I always loved the way you kiss. I missed you.
CHARLIE: Your eyes look like silver pools of moonlight. And the tide rushes in.
PEGGY: You really love me, don't you?
CHARLIE: You know I do. I even wrote you into my will.
PEGGY: ( tentatively ) Charlie, let's make love.
CHARLIE: What?! You mean sex?! Intercourse? You want to have intercourse! Last weekend you said. What time is A lot's happened since last But you're the one who wanted to wait till we got married. And you were right. We should wait.
PEGGY: A lot's happened since last But you're the one who wanted to wait till we got married. And you were right. We should wait.
CHARLIE: But you're the one who wanted to wait till we got married. And you were right. We should wait.
PEGGY: ( f1ustered ) I probably meant it when I said it. ( beat; coyly ) Doesn't Lucky Chuckie want to come Peggy starts to GIGGLE, realizing the absurdity of the situation. The more she GIGGLES, the more agitated Charlie gets. Peggy starts to unbutton Charlie's shirt.
CHARLIE: Peggy starts to GIGGLE, realizing the absurdity of the situation. The more she GIGGLES, the more agitated Charlie gets. Peggy starts to unbutton Charlie's shirt.
PEGGY: You know. Your love machine. the throbbing thrill hammer. your You mean my wang? Listen, it's running real late. Charlie pushes her away, angry..
CHARLIE: You mean my wang? Listen, it's running real late. Charlie pushes her away, angry..
CHARLIE: What is this? What the hell is going on? One week you say, "If you love me you won't", now you say "If you love me you will". Excuse me. That's a guy's line! Peggy realizes she's blown it. Charlie isn't ready for this.
PEGGY: This is a mistake. We better forget it.
CHARLIE: You're damn right! Jesus! Peggy! You sure know how to spoil a mood. Charlie straightens himself up, starts the car and burns out.
PEGGY: I'm sorry Charlie.
CHARLIE: Save it. Peggy watches him go. Looking at her darkened house, she turns and walks down the street.
MONICA: What would you like?
PEGGY: Monica? Aren't you Monica Hines?
MONICA: Yes. Who are you?
PEGGY: Ah. never mind. Can I have a coffee, please? And a cinnamon How's Bobo? Peggy notices Michael staring at her. Peggy smiles, Michael doesn't. Monica brings Peggy her coffee and donut.
MONICA: Twenty cents, please.
PEGGY: You're kidding? Picking up her donut and coffee, she walks over to Michael's table and sits opposite him.
PEGGY: I was impressed with what you said in English class today.
MICHAEL: Gilfond's okay, except he thinks Hemingway's great Literature.
PEGGY: You don't?
MICHAEL: ( contemptuously ) He's a fisherman! The most overrated writer of the century. I mean, he's the perfect American author — fat, violent, drunk.
PEGGY: Maybe you're confusing his life with his work.
MICHAEL: A writer's life is his work. Jack Kerouac doesn't have to kill a bull to have something to write about. He's out there feeling, burning. grooving on life! Michael leans back in his chair. He's said his piece. Peggy studies him for a beat.
PEGGY: The young man leaned back in his chair. No bulls would die today.
MICHAEL: What're you doing here anyway?
PEGGY: Coffee and a donut.
MICHAEL: I thought chicks like you traveled in packs.
PEGGY: Hey, man, I'm a hip chick.
DOLORES: Terry, slow down.
TERRY: Terry! Slow down.
DOLORES: Terry! Slow down.
TERRY: What, why?
DOLORES: There's Peggy with Michael That commie beatnik? What's she doing with him? Wait'll I tell First a nerd and then a weirdo. What a bunch of nose pickers. I'll tell Charlie.
TERRY: That commie beatnik? What's she doing with him? Wait'll I tell First a nerd and then a weirdo. What a bunch of nose pickers. I'll tell Charlie.
DOLORES: First a nerd and then a weirdo. What a bunch of nose pickers. I'll tell Charlie.
MICHAEL: This is great reefer.
PEGGY: Yeah. I'm surprised. It's really old. ( inhales ) Travels well You know, the world looks a lot better from up here.
MICHAEL: The world is fantastic. It's the ultimate absurd circus. I am shot from a cannon into the energy.
PEGGY: What are you shooting for?
MICHAEL: Maximum intensity. Yeah. I can't wait to get out of here. I'm gonna write. I'm gonna check out of this bourgeois motel. Push myself away from the dinner table and say 'No more Jell—O for me, Mom.'
PEGGY: Don't you get along with your The only thing my father digs is cold, green money. All my mother cares about is her standing at the country club.
MICHAEL: The only thing my father digs is cold, green money. All my mother cares about is her standing at the country club.
PEGGY: They care about you. They're just a different generation.
MICHAEL: Hey what's with you? I thought you were cool. You rode my bike. You blew some pot. What's your scene Miss Majorette? You gonna marry Mr. Blue Impala and graze around with all the other sheep for the rest of your life?
PEGGY: I already did that. I want to be a dancer, I want to dance. Peggy takes off her sweater, kicks off her shoes and begins to dance. Her eyes are closed, her body silhouetted by the moon. Michael is transfixed. After a few beats, he walks over to her. He stretches out his arms and places them around her neck. They sway together for several beats, their bodies touching. Peggy opens her eyes and sees Michael gazing at her You know, I had you pegged all Michael kisses Peggy. She responds passionately.
MICHAEL: You know, I had you pegged all Michael kisses Peggy. She responds passionately.
MICHAEL: A ray of oneness piercing the solitude. Falling bodies in the ecstasy of flesh. You'll be a chapter in my memoirs of desire.
PEGGY: Is that one of your poems?
MICHAEL: No, I just made that up. Do you want to hear one?
PEGGY: I'd love to.
MICHAEL: ( eyes ablaze ) Okay. Here's a new one. It's called ( beat ) I couldn't sleep so I thought I'd Betrayed by a kiss, sucking pods of In the madhouse of Dr. Dread Razor shreds of rat puke fall On my bare arms ( sees Peggy grimace; he calms down ) I'm sorry. I guess I was trying to impress you. ( kisses her ) Peggy is falling for it. He fumbles with her bra straps.
PEGGY: Michael. you're as good as you His other hand reaches to undo her skirt.
MICHAEL: I'll respect you for eternity. 'When you are old and gray, and full of sleep, And nodding by the fire, Take down this book, and slowly read, And dream of the soft look your eyes had once." I didn't write that. That's Yeats. Peggy is moved by the beauty of the poem. She sits up, leans over Michael, runs her hand through his hair, almost I envy you. You have your whole life ahead of you and you know exactly what you want to do. But forget the rat puke; write something beautiful. Peggy lies back down on the ground. Michael takes her hand and kisses it.
PEGGY: I envy you. You have your whole life ahead of you and you know exactly what you want to do. But forget the rat puke; write something beautiful. Peggy lies back down on the ground. Michael takes her hand and kisses it.
PEGGY: You know, this isn't really CAMERA PULLS BACK to include the entire, perfect tableau: the starry night, the motorcycle, the clouds racing across the moon and the two lovers on the mountaintop.
MILKMAN: Your parents are waiting up. You know, I see a lot of this in the spring. Good luck.
PEGGY: Thanks, Ralph.
MRS. KELCHER: Where have you been?
PEGGY: I went for a drive. Up in the Damn that Charlie I
MR. KELCHER: Damn that Charlie I
PEGGY: It's not Charlie. It's me.
MR. KELCHER: ( nervously ) Peggy, let me ask you something. ( beat ) You're not. expecting are you?
PEGGY: At my age? Don't be silly.
MR. KELCHER: Thank God for that.
PEGGY: Dad.. it's not a big deal. Didn't you ever stay out all night when you were young?
MR. KELCHER: Yes but I was a boy. And I still had hell to pay.
PEGGY: Calm down. Just listen for a minute.. Please.
MR. KELCHER: All right. But this better be good.
PEGGY: I want to help with the family finances. I want you to buy some stocks. And gold. By 1980 gold is going to be worth eight hundred dollars an ounce. Then you sell.
MR. KELCHER: Do you know how ridiculous you sound? First of all, it's illegal for U.S. citizens to buy gold. And in the second place, the price of gold is regulated by the I think they're going to deregulate That's your problems The more women think, the more trouble they get Oh boy, that's another thing that's going to change. Who's going to think for us? Our husbands? You know, you treat Mom like a maid. It's not entirely your fault. Those were the attitudes in the fifties, and that's the way you raised me. But give Nancy a break, encourage her to go to art school.
PEGGY: I think they're going to deregulate That's your problems The more women think, the more trouble they get Oh boy, that's another thing that's going to change. Who's going to think for us? Our husbands? You know, you treat Mom like a maid. It's not entirely your fault. Those were the attitudes in the fifties, and that's the way you raised me. But give Nancy a break, encourage her to go to art school.
MR. KELCHER: That's your problems The more women think, the more trouble they get Oh boy, that's another thing that's going to change. Who's going to think for us? Our husbands? You know, you treat Mom like a maid. It's not entirely your fault. Those were the attitudes in the fifties, and that's the way you raised me. But give Nancy a break, encourage her to go to art school.
PEGGY: Oh boy, that's another thing that's going to change. Who's going to think for us? Our husbands? You know, you treat Mom like a maid. It's not entirely your fault. Those were the attitudes in the fifties, and that's the way you raised me. But give Nancy a break, encourage her to go to art school.
MR. KELCHER: I've heard just about enough of this lunacy! Go to your room!
PEGGY: Listen Dad, please. Buy IBM, buy Polaroid, buy Apple Computer. No, no. Not yet. Buy Xerox!
MR. KELCHER: Evelyn, take her to her room! Peggy stalks out of the kitchen to the front door.
MRS. KELCHER: I'm not the maid!
PEGGY: Way to go, Mom! The Kelchers glare at each other~. We HEAR the DOOR SLAM.
RICHARD: The way I see it, you have an unparalleled opportunity to become the richest woman in the world.
PEGGY: I'm just not the type. Besides, I want to get out of here.
RICHARD: But you have a vision. Don't you want to help your parents?
PEGGY: I tried to tell them, but they wouldn't listen to me.
RICHARD: I'm talking about invention, no investment. I know what people think of me. Mr. Spasmatician. Dick the Square Root. I'll show them. You said I was going to be a millionaire. And you're gonna help!
PEGGY: Richard, take it easy.
RICHARD: No offense, but for a person who says she's lived an extra lifetime, you certainly are thick. Money is power.. Money makes people respect How come you never ask me any important questions? Don't you wonder if there's going to be a nuclear war? Or a cure for cancer? What about your family? What about I'm curious, but I don't want to know. Jeez, I hope you haven't been telling people what's going to happen to them.
PEGGY: How come you never ask me any important questions? Don't you wonder if there's going to be a nuclear war? Or a cure for cancer? What about your family? What about I'm curious, but I don't want to know. Jeez, I hope you haven't been telling people what's going to happen to them.
RICHARD: I'm curious, but I don't want to know. Jeez, I hope you haven't been telling people what's going to happen to them.
PEGGY: Give me some credit, will you?
RICHARD: Good. You're discreet. I like that in a partner.
PEGGY: Wbat're you talking about?
RICHARD: Look it's very simple. You tell me everything that hasn't been invented yet, and I'll invent it. We'll be partners. Fifty—fifty.
PEGGY: RI CHARD That's not fair.
RI CHARD: That's not fair.
PEGGY: Okay, find yourself another vision.
RICHARD: You're taking advantage of a minor.
PEGGY: When do we start? A WAITRESS approaches their table.
WAITRESS: Do you know what you want?
RICHARD: A Ton on a Bun, with fries.
WAITRESS: And you?
PEGGY: Quiche Lorraine, spinach salad and a Perrier.
PEGGY: Dry cleaners. No real change. Just higher prices. They move next door to a shoe store.
PEGGY: Ah. This is a biggie. Forget sneakers. Running shoes, jogging shoes, tennis shoes. Fifty to two hundred dollars a pair.
RICHARD: Come on. You can't be serious.
PEGGY: There are major fortunes to be made here. Leisure time and life—styles.
RICHARD: Are you talking ~about exercise? Like gym?
PEGGY: Not for you. Okay, there's lots They move along to the next window, an appliance store. The window is filled with old televisions, record players, large rotisserie—broilers, etc. The store sign reads: BODELL'S TV AND APPLIANCES. Another sign reads: COME IN AND LISTEN TO
PEGGY: Look at that stuff. It's like the dark ages. This is more your speed. And boy, do I know this business. Peggy peers into the store again and catches a g1impse of Charlie serving a customer.
RICHARD: Let's see. icrowavemays, ocketpay The two ladies react.
PEGGY: You don't have to use pig Latin! Nobody could possibly know what we're talking about.
RICHARD: All right. These are the choices: microwave ovens, pocket calculators, Walkmans, digital watches and miniature TV's.
PEGGY: Oh. And huge portable radios. Everything else gets small, but for some reason, portable radios get Peggy looks up and sees a lingerie store across the street. She heads towards it, calling:
PEGGY: I'll be right back. Peggy enters the Lingerie store. After a beat, Peggy emerges from the store, excited and empty handed. Dodging traffic, she hurries back to Richard.
PEGGY: Richard! They don't have any! They never heard of them! Isn't that What are you talking about?
RICHARD: What are you talking about?
PEGGY: The wave of the future! I've decided on our first fortune! I'll see you later. You just think high High tech. I like the sound of EXT. APPLIANCE STORE — DUSK At the back is a small record department, complete with a listening booth. Charlie is waiting on a customer. Peggy enters. CHARLIE'S FATHER is waiting on a buxom YOUNG WOMAN, his arm around her shoulder. He turns around as she enters. She has a shock of recognition.
RICHARD: High tech. I like the sound of EXT. APPLIANCE STORE — DUSK At the back is a small record department, complete with a listening booth. Charlie is waiting on a customer. Peggy enters. CHARLIE'S FATHER is waiting on a buxom YOUNG WOMAN, his arm around her shoulder. He turns around as she enters. She has a shock of recognition.
MR. BODELL: ( to young woman ) Look at that freezer chest. What ( to Peggy, embarrassed ) Hello Peggy Sue.
PEGGY: Woody! How ya doing?
MR. BODELL: Fine, just fine. Peggy gives him a big hug and a kiss on the cheek.
PEGGY: Nice to see you.
MR. BODELL: Charlie's in the back. Peggy walks towards the back as Mr. Bodell explains:
MR. BODELL: My future daughter—in—law. Very affectionate girl.
GENTLEMAN: I'll just take the Ravel.
CHARLIE: Take the Shostakovich home and listen to it. Let it grow on you. Everyone that's bought it has come back and said, "This is definitive Shostakovich. Thank you for encouraging me to investigate it."
GENTLEMAN: Well, I did enjoy the Dvorak you suggested. Young man, you talked me into it. Charlie points Peggy to the listening booth.
CHARLIE: You'll like it. I kid you not.
PEGGY: What do you know about classical Nothing.. Selling is selling.
CHARLIE: Nothing.. Selling is selling.
PEGGY: Charlie. About last nights..
CHARLIE: Forget it. I've been thinking. Girls must go through that stuff too. Sometimes when I look at you I feel like an animal. Maybe my dad's right. Teenagers are nuts.
PEGGY: But I'm not. I'm a grown woman with a lifetime of emotional experiences you couldn't possibly understand.
CHARLIE: Yeah, I know. Girls mature faster than guys. But last night, I was the one who put on the brakes. And you know why?
PEGGY: Charlie cups her face in his hands, pouring out his heart.
CHARLIE: Because nothing else matters. That's the great thing about love. Every time we argue, every time something goes wrong, and I know that I'm not perfect either, things just work out better in the end. Cause you're my baby and I love What am I going to do with you?
PEGGY: What am I going to do with you?
CHARLIE: Don't be cruel to a heart that's INT. KELCHER HAT STORE KELCHER'S HATS - LATE AFTERNOON Alone in the store, Mr. Kelcher is going through some receipts. Peggy enters carrying a shopping bag.
PEGGY: Hi, Dad.
MR. KELCHER: Doing some shopping? Peggy reaches into the shopping bag and pulls out a small wrapped box.
MR. KELCHER: For me?
PEGGY: Open it. He opens the present. Inside are a pair of miniature golf ball cufflinks.
MR. KELCHER: Sweetheart, they're beautiful. But they must've been expensive. Across the street an ice cream truck pulls up. Mothers, fathers and children crowd around the back as the driver exit the cab.
PEGGY: I closed my Christmas club.
MR. KELCHER: Good, you got your money out of that greedy bank.
PEGGY: I wanted to apologize for this It's hard to believe you're going to be eighteen. Want an eskimo pie? Or a I'd come home from the store and there's little you running up to me. I'd give you a dime and you'd promise never to grow up.
MR. KELCHER: It's hard to believe you're going to be eighteen. Want an eskimo pie? Or a I'd come home from the store and there's little you running up to me. I'd give you a dime and you'd promise never to grow up.
PEGGY: Quiet today?
MR. KELCHER: This morning was good.
PEGGY: The hat business is in trouble.
MR. KELCHER: I, that what all that nonsense was about this morning? You're worried about my business?
PEGGY: MR. KELCHER That's very thoughtful, honey. It's just a slump. Things will pick up.
MR. KELCHER: That's very thoughtful, honey. It's just a slump. Things will pick up.
PEGGY: But when John F. Kennedy's elected President, men'1l stop wearing Kennedy's a Catholic. He'll never eyes ) He'll win.
MR. KELCHER: Kennedy's a Catholic. He'll never eyes ) He'll win.
PEGGY: ( gravely; closing her eyes ) He'll win.
MR. KELCHER: Richard Nixon's going to be President. Nixon wears hats.
NANCY: You think this'll cheer Dad up?
PEGGY: Of course, he'll love it. You're a terrific artist. We HEAR Mr. Kelcher arguing loudly from downstairs. The two girls freeze.
MRS. KELCHER: Please don't shout. Peggy opens the door, Nancy cautiously behind.
MRS. KELCHER: Does everybody have to hear?
MR. KELCHER: I want everybody to hear because I don't have anything to be ashamed Mr. Kelcher collapses into his barcalounger, red as a beet.
MRS. KELCHER: Jack, I was just trying to help.
MR. KELCHER: We'll make it, we'll be fine.
NANCY: Does this mean we're going to be Peggy leads her back into her room without letting her parents know they were there.
CAROL: All right. What's the scoop?
PEGGY: On what?
MADDY: How come we're your best friends and we had to find out about you and Michael Fitzsimmons from She's unbelievable. Who needs satellites when we've got Dolores's I hear she does more than talk with her mouth.
PEGGY: She's unbelievable. Who needs satellites when we've got Dolores's I hear she does more than talk with her mouth.
CAROL: I hear she does more than talk with her mouth.
MADDY: That's disgusting!
CAROL: ( brushing her hair ) ) Oh, Maddy, grow up. It says in LOVE WITHOUT FEAR that "the tongue kiss as a means of genital stimulation is widely practiced and has much to commend it". Page eighty—six.
PEGGY: Did you memorize the whole book or only the good parts?
CAROL: Just what you underlined.
PEGGY: You're kidding.? Carol, you have beautiful hair.
CAROL: Come on. What's with you and Yeah. He's so cool and mysterious.
MADDY: Yeah. He's so cool and mysterious.
PEGGY: He's very interesting. For all his pretending to be a tough guy, he's really got the soul of a poet.
CAROL: I bet Dolores told Charlie.
PEGGY: That loud—mouthed little bitch~
MADDY: Peggy Sue!
CAROL: You better watch out for her. She's after Charlie.
PEGGY: Cool it kids. He's free to see other girls, if he wants.
MADDY: But I always thought that you would marry Charlie, Carol would marry Walter, and I would marry Arthur. We'd all live on the same street and take our kids to the park together and have barbecues every Sunday. It'll spoil everything if you and Charlie break up. That Michael doesn't look like the barbecue type.
PEGGY: I'm not going to marry him. I just went out with him once. I know! Why don't we go to the movies tonight. Just us girls. It'll be fun.
CAROL: Don't be silly. It's Saturday. Date Yeah. I've gotta go. Arthur's picking me up soon.
MADDY: Yeah. I've gotta go. Arthur's picking me up soon.
PEGGY: Okay. But let's have a girls night soon. Maybe a pajama party.
CAROL: Aren't we a little old for that?
MADDY: Sometimes you're so immature.
PEGGY: Ta da! Pantyhose! The death of the garter belt! Of course, once they're manufactured they'll look better than this. What do you This is your great invention? Would you wear those things?
MR. KELCHER: This is your great invention? Would you wear those things?
MRS. KELCHER: Would they go over my girdle or Instead of a girdle. And light as a Jack, I think she's got something And we won't just sell them in department stores. We'll market them in drug stores and That's all well and good, but we don't have the money to manufacture You need a partner. There's a friend of mine at school whose father makes seat covers for cars, Mr. Fitzsimmons. I've invited him and his family over for dinner tomorrow night.
PEGGY: Instead of a girdle. And light as a Jack, I think she's got something And we won't just sell them in department stores. We'll market them in drug stores and That's all well and good, but we don't have the money to manufacture You need a partner. There's a friend of mine at school whose father makes seat covers for cars, Mr. Fitzsimmons. I've invited him and his family over for dinner tomorrow night.
PEGGY: And we won't just sell them in department stores. We'll market them in drug stores and That's all well and good, but we don't have the money to manufacture You need a partner. There's a friend of mine at school whose father makes seat covers for cars, Mr. Fitzsimmons. I've invited him and his family over for dinner tomorrow night.
MR. KELCHER: That's all well and good, but we don't have the money to manufacture You need a partner. There's a friend of mine at school whose father makes seat covers for cars, Mr. Fitzsimmons. I've invited him and his family over for dinner tomorrow night.
PEGGY: You need a partner. There's a friend of mine at school whose father makes seat covers for cars, Mr. Fitzsimmons. I've invited him and his family over for dinner tomorrow night.
MRS. KELCHER: Isn't that awfully forward?
PEGGY: We've got to move fast. This is an idea whose time has come.
MR. KELCHER: You mean to tell me that you invited this Mr. Fitzsimmons over to talk about investing his money in your cockamamie idea?
PEGGY: Wrong, Dad. Your idea.
PEGGY: Charlie. I just had the strangest I have to talk to you.. Through her sleep—clouded eyes, Peggy begins to focus on the face of the younger Charlie. Suddenly, she remembers.
CHARLIE: ( whispering ) I have to talk to you.. Through her sleep—clouded eyes, Peggy begins to focus on the face of the younger Charlie. Suddenly, she remembers.
PEGGY: What are you doing here?
CHARLIE: ( angry ) Let's go down to the basement.
CHARLIE: I want to know what's going on. Dolores told me that you and that scuzzball Michael Fitzsimmons.
PEGGY: I bumped into him after you dropped me off Last night. I didn't feel like going home, so we went for a Then it's true, dammit! I had a miserable time tonight 'cause of you. When the Monotones did "Book of Love —— Chapter Four you break up, won't you give it just one more chance." I'm thinking Did we break up? 'Cause if we did, I don't even know about it!. I thought we cleared all that up yesterday. Did that Maynard G. Beatnik give you what you wanted?
CHARLIE: ( furious ) Then it's true, dammit! I had a miserable time tonight 'cause of you. When the Monotones did "Book of Love —— Chapter Four you break up, won't you give it just one more chance." I'm thinking Did we break up? 'Cause if we did, I don't even know about it!. I thought we cleared all that up yesterday. Did that Maynard G. Beatnik give you what you wanted?
PEGGY: You know I never could stand your You're going to blow it, Peggy Sue. Nobody treats Charlie Bodell like And why do you always refer to yourself in the third person, like Napoleon? How come it always turns into an argument with you?
CHARLIE: You're going to blow it, Peggy Sue. Nobody treats Charlie Bodell like And why do you always refer to yourself in the third person, like Napoleon? How come it always turns into an argument with you?
PEGGY: And why do you always refer to yourself in the third person, like Napoleon? How come it always turns into an argument with you?
CHARLIE: Look, I've got the hair, got the eyes, got the teeth, I got the car. I'm the lead singer, I'm the man.
PEGGY: Charlie,. I've been trying to postpone this. But what's the point? It's over. I don't want to hurt you. This is very hard for me. I'm doing this for both of us. I really want you to be happy.
CHARLIE: I will be happy if I have you. I love you.
PEGGY: That won't make any difference. We just can't live together. And you had the nerve to drive up with that bimbo Janet.
CHARLIE: What are you talking about? Who's I just can't trust you anymore.
PEGGY: I just can't trust you anymore.
CHARLIE: What about everything I said to you this afternoon.
PEGGY: That's just it. You can always get to me. There's this window in my heart and every time I leave it open, you climb in. Unless I close it now, nothing's ever going to be But what has to be different?
CHARLIE: But what has to be different?
PEGGY: Everything. I have a good head for business, I should be franchising the bakery. And I want you to give me your word that whatever happens, you'll go to college. And finish.
CHARLIE: What! What about the group and my singing career? What about me?
PEGGY: I'm trying to save you years of frustration. waiting for a big break. no. Waiting for that big disappointment so you could blame it all on me.
CHARLIE: You don't know zip! You think I'm going to end up selling appliances like my father? Chasing women around the store. I've got to give it a shot. Why are you trying to kill the two things that mean the most to me? Until yesterday you loved me and you loved us. What the hell has changed? For two years I've done nothing but love you. I'll show you, I'm going to be just like Fabian! Charlie exits. Peggy slumps back, drained. Getting up, she crosses to the mounted swordfish. Standing on a chair she reaches into the mouth of the fish and pulls out a package of Pall Malls. She puts a cigarette in her mouth and picks up a table lighter and flicks it. As it lights, the tiny music box inside PLAYS SMOKE GETS IN YOUR EYES.
PEGGY: ( very nervous ) Hello, Grandma. It's Peggy Sue. Much better. How are you? I'm very sorry about the other day.
PEGGY: ( breathless ) Hi, Richard.
RICHARD: What are you doing?
PEGGY: Jogging. I was running, now I'm That's what you were talking about yesterday? Everybody does that in the future?
RICHARD: That's what you were talking about yesterday? Everybody does that in the future?
PEGGY: Yep. It's going to be a law. I broke up with Charlie last night.
RICHARD: That's terrific. You did it. You really changed the course of your It was an unfair fight. He didn't have a chance. I'm taking a real gamble. I loved him for a long, long time.
PEGGY: It was an unfair fight. He didn't have a chance. I'm taking a real gamble. I loved him for a long, long time.
RICHARD: Cheer up. Now you can give some other guy a shot. Make it up to him later and buy him a yacht.
PEGGY: For God's sake, forget the money! I'm going crazy! I'm a walking anachronism. I'm a puddle of deja I'm worried about my kids, Scott must be scared to death, I think my daughter's doing drugs again. I can't have any fun here, I don't have that innocence any more. I can't keep all this in anymore. I feel Like I'm going to explode.
RICHARD: Look, the best scientific mind in this country is working on your case. May I make a suggestion?
PEGGY: Like what?
RICHARD: ( excited ) Suggestion! Hypnotic suggestion! Why didn't I think o~ that before?
PEGGY: What do you know about hypnosis?
RICHARD: Everything. This is perfect. The subconscious mind remembers all. You can give me more information on microchips and then pinpoint what happened at the reunion. Maybe that'll give us a clue on how to get you back.
PEGGY: Look, I'm desperate. I'll try anything. But what if you can't snap me out of it?
RICHARD: No offense, but you're pretty out of it now.
RICHARD: You are completely relaxed. When I count to three, you will open your eyes. One. two. three. open ) We'll start with something easy. What is your name?
PEGGY: ( trance—like ) Peggy Sue Kelcher. ( beat ) Or, Peggy Bodell. ( beat ) I'm not sure.
RICHARD: Oh boy. Peggy, what are microchips?
PEGGY: Ah... they're very tiny. they look like a fingernail made out of an erector set.
RICHARD: What will they be made of?
PEGGY: I think it's called silicon. Charlie told me that.
RICHARD: Silicon is from sand.
PEGGY: We were lying in the sand. It was my eighteenth birthday. We were so awkward. I would have married him anyway. Peggy starts to shift in the chair. Her shorts hike up, her legs spread slightly. This is not lost on Richard. Weird, guttural sounds begin to emanate from his throat.
RICHARD: In the future, will you have to marry a girl before you have sex with her?
PEGGY: No. The Pill will change all that. Then he wouldn't have blamed me. We were just too young.
RICHARD: You mean you'll give a girl a pill and she'll want to have sex?
PEGGY: No. The Pill will be for birth control. But girls do like sex. Maybe not the first time.
RICHARD: Will you take of f your blouse?
PEGGY: Yes, every day. getting spaced ) Maybe I shouldn't have worn that dress? I told Beth it was a bad idea. That's why they made me Queen. Peggy's meandering makes Richard nervous.
RICHARD: ( shouting ) No! Yes! I'll be right out, Dad. ( urgent ) Oh shit! Peggy, I'm going to snap you out of it.
PEGGY: I couldn't help it —— I loved him.
RICHARD: One. two. three. You are now awake. Richard kneels on top of Peggy as she wakes up, fumbling the buttons at her breasts. Peggy comes to, as Richard jumps off. She buttons her blouse, furious.
PEGGY: Richard! You should be ashamed of Me? You went crazy! You started taking your clothes off. I was putting them back on for you.
RICHARD: Me? You went crazy! You started taking your clothes off. I was putting them back on for you.
PEGGY: That's just perfect isn't it? Did it work? Did you find out why I came back?
RICHARD: I think it has something to do with your birthday. You were rambling. I didn't understand the rest.
PEGGY: God dammit! How'm I gonna got out of here? Peggy grabs a glass beaker and hurls it against the wall.
RICHARD: Hey! Do you have any idea how much those beakers cost? I usually charge for hypnosis.
PEGGY: Oh, go feel up your hamsters! I hear rodents put out. Peggy storms out.
MRS. KELCHER: You know, dear, I think the pantyhose is a wonderful idea, but the next time you come up with something, please don't stay out all night. Just tell us. We'll believe you.
PEGGY: Mom, how about a machine that's like your blender, only it slices vegetables, kneads dough, chops meat and even make fresh pasta?
MRS KELCHER: What's pasta?
MRS. KELCHER: These roses are beautiful. And so romantic'. Who is this Michael? Is he a friend of Charlie's? She moves the Jell-O mold.
PEGGY: No, just a friend of mine. I don't think he Likes Jell—O.
MRS. KELCHER: What does Charlie think about that?
PEGGY: You know Mom, it's okay to have male friends. Besides, it's over with me and Charlie.
MRS. KELCHER: ( shocked ) What? When did it happen? Your dad and I always expected you two to get married.
PEGGY: Yeah, I know Peggy Sue gets married. Case closed. Period. Mom, if you could live your life over again, would you do the same thing? Get married and settle down after high school?
PEGGY: MRS. KELCHER All the college girls I knew were so well, dressed. I was worried that I wouldn't fit in. I didn't have the right clothes. I was so silly. But, I don't have many regrets, and besides, r don't have time to worry about the past. But Charlie. I hope you know what you're doing.
MRS. KELCHER: All the college girls I knew were so well, dressed. I was worried that I wouldn't fit in. I didn't have the right clothes. I was so silly. But, I don't have many regrets, and besides, r don't have time to worry about the past. But Charlie. I hope you know what you're doing.
MR. FITZSIMMONS: Moose? I never thought I'd have moose for desert. The adults laugh. Michael looks bored.
MR. KELCHER: Peggy Sue cooked the whole dinner.
NANCY: But Mom helped.
MR. FITZSIMMONS: You know, you should open a It's incredibly difficult to make money in the restaurant business. You have to get up at five in the morning to go to the market, you have problems with spoilage, employee pilferage, and just try and collect from the credit card companies. They take months to pay. The whole table is astonished.
PEGGY: It's incredibly difficult to make money in the restaurant business. You have to get up at five in the morning to go to the market, you have problems with spoilage, employee pilferage, and just try and collect from the credit card companies. They take months to pay. The whole table is astonished.
MR. FITZSIMMONS: How does a young gal like you know so much about business?
PEGGY: Oh, I just picked it up from my dad. He's a wonderful businessman.
MR. FITZSIMMONS: Peggy gives her father a go get him look. Michael's writing in a pocket notebook.
MR. KELCHER: Ah, Ed, why don't you and I adjourn to the den for a while?
MICHAEL: That was quite an evening. Bourgeois, phony, decadent, stupid.
PEGGY: I shouldn't have put you through that. It must have been agony. Let's do something. Michael makes a move towards Peggy, with lust in his eyes.
PEGGY: No. Something else. I'm too full. Besides, it's a school night.
MICHAEL: Five more weeks of school. And ten minutes past graduation I'm gone. To freedom.
PEGGY: ( looking around at the crowd — clinking glasses ) For everyone.
MICHAEL: Now listen, this is the plan. As soon as school is finished we go to Utah and.
PEGGY: Utah? I thought you'd be going to New York or Paris. What's in Utah?
MICHAEL: Rita. I met her last summer. She's cool. You'll really dig her. She's got this great little cabin in the hills, just outside of Provo where she raises chickens. I'll write and the two of you can take care of the chickens to support us.
PEGGY: ( astounded ) I can't do that.
MICHAEL: Why not? Polygamy's legal in Utah.
PEGGY: I hate chickens.
SINGER: Thank you. Now we're happy to introduce, a friend of ours. He's one damn fine singer, Mr. Charlie We HEAR the GROVE BEGIN the SONG SEA OF LOVE.
MICHAEL: But what about the other night? We were like two stars in the same Michael, you and I are light years apart. You should go, but not with But we had heat baby. Passion! Fire! We owe it to ourselves to fuse together. At least one more time.
PEGGY: Michael, you and I are light years apart. You should go, but not with But we had heat baby. Passion! Fire! We owe it to ourselves to fuse together. At least one more time.
MICHAEL: But we had heat baby. Passion! Fire! We owe it to ourselves to fuse together. At least one more time.
PEGGY: That's a terrific line. You're going to be a wonderful writer.
MICHAEL: You think so?
PEGGY: Yes. We had a glorious night together. One day you'll remember and write about it.
MICHAEL: I can dig that. Bittersweet perfection. Dogs of lust on leashes of memory. yeah. Suddenly distracted by the familiar voice, Peggy looks up to the stage and sees that the lead singer, Charlie Bell, is in fact, Charlie Bodell.
MICHAEL: Now I get it.
PEGGY: Ssh. He's great.
MICHAEL: Peggy Sue's still stuck on treble without a cause. Charlie finishes the song as the audience goes wild. He I thought I knew everything about Can we split now? Peggy and Michael unobtrusively slip out of the club. Charlie leaves the stage. He's met by a greasy looking MAN. They sit down at a booth to talk.
PEGGY: I thought I knew everything about Can we split now? Peggy and Michael unobtrusively slip out of the club. Charlie leaves the stage. He's met by a greasy looking MAN. They sit down at a booth to talk.
MICHAEL: Can we split now? Peggy and Michael unobtrusively slip out of the club. Charlie leaves the stage. He's met by a greasy looking MAN. They sit down at a booth to talk.
MICHAEL: I can dig you being uptight about Rita and Utah. That's cool. But I've got to warn you about My father. He's not just the ultimate square. He's a total INT. KELCHER KITCHEN Mrs. Kelcher finishes the dishes, with rubber gloves on. Mr. Kelcher sits, cleaning his pipe. Peggy enters.
PEGGY: My father. He's not just the ultimate square. He's a total INT. KELCHER KITCHEN Mrs. Kelcher finishes the dishes, with rubber gloves on. Mr. Kelcher sits, cleaning his pipe. Peggy enters.
MICHAEL: My father. He's not just the ultimate square. He's a total INT. KELCHER KITCHEN Mrs. Kelcher finishes the dishes, with rubber gloves on. Mr. Kelcher sits, cleaning his pipe. Peggy enters.
PEGGY: How did it go with the pantyhose?
MR. KELCHER: It's the darndest thing. Ed knew what they were immediately. As a matter of fact, he said he's got a product like that in development right now.
PEGGY: Oh no!
MR. KELCHER: Didn't call, them pantyhose, though. What was it, Evelyn?
MRS. KELCHER: Sheerotards. Catchy name, isn't it? Like leotards.
PEGGY: He's a liar! He has no such thing! It's my own fault. I should have had it patented first. He's a crook, damnit.
MR. KELCHER: Peggy Sue, watch your mouth.
MRS. KELCHER: Mr. Fitzsimmons is a very prominent Oh, you're both so naive.
PEGGY: Oh, you're both so naive.
MR. KELCHER: Look young lady, I grew up through the depression. I fought in the second World War. Six days a week I get up and deal with the public, the bank and the bill collectors. And on the seventh day, when God rests, I don't have to listen to my daughter calling me a fool!
MRS. KELCHER: You have a point, dear.
CHARLIE: What're you doing here?
PEGGY: I wanted to talk to you, and I have one last thing to take care of at school. Then I'm going to. Good dog, Rusty. Good dog.
CHARLIE: Rusty's dead. That's Ajax Charlie throws a stick. Ajax chases it, never comes back.
PEGGY: Oh. I guess I always liked Rusty Could you give me a ride to school?
CHARLIE: Sorry, the Blue Thunder's out of commission for a while.
PEGGY: Well, how about a walk, Charlie How'd you know about that?
CHARLIE: How'd you know about that?
PEGGY: I was at Lena's last night. You were terrific.
CHARLIE: Not terrific enough. What were you doing in that part of town? Who were you with?
PEGGY: What were You doing there? You never told me you were singing with an R and B group.
CHARLIE: Hey. I guess there's a lot of things we don't know about each Charlie and Peggy walking.
PEGGY: I'd forgotten how much music meant to you.
CHARLIE: That's real big of you.
PEGGY: Stop being defensive. I want to help you. I wrote a song for you.
CHARLIE: You're kidding. You wrote a song? Is it about a guilty girl and a trusting guy. she wants to hurt him, and he wonders why? Peggy takes a piece of paper from her purse.
PEGGY: Not exactly, but with your great voice, it'll be a huge hit. Honest.
CHARLIE: Fat chance. You know, Lee Wilkins came to hear me last night. He told me to forget it. You told me to forget it. My parents tell me to forget it.
PEGGY: Just take a look at it.
CHARLIE: If you took the trouble to write it, then sure, I'll take a look at it. But I'm beginning to think that maybe there's more to life than music. I wonder if people would still like me if I stopped being Mr. Excitement?
CHARLIE: Does this mean you like me again?
PEGGY: It means I care about you and what happens to you.
CHARLIE: That's all I wanted to hear. 'Cause I'm never going to give up on us. It's easy to fall apart in a crisis. It's easy to be selfish and say goodbye and good luck. But this is more than love. This is a mental decision. Just wait till tomorrow, when you see your birthday present. Then you'll understand. Charlie walks away as Peggy reaches into the locker for her Peggy, I have to talk to you. Peggy turns to Carol. They walk down the hallway together.
CAROL: Peggy, I have to talk to you. Peggy turns to Carol. They walk down the hallway together.
PEGGY: What's the matter?
CAROL: It's that jerk Walter.
PEGGY: What happened?
CAROL: After Charlie told Walter that he broke up with you because he wanted to play the field, Walter decided he should do the same thing.
PEGGY: Welcome to the singles' scene.
CAROL: What a I going to do for the rest of my life? I don't have a boyfriend anymore.
PEGGY: Look, Carol, maybe Walter's done you a big favor. You always said you wanted to get out of town. Go for it. And be happy, goddamnit, I'm rooting for you.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Walter walks up to Charlie.
WALTER: Hey Charlie, what do you think of Walter does a totally demented dance step, finishing by strumming his leg like a guitar. He stands there grinning.
CHARLIE: Walter, maybe you should be a INT. CLASSROOM Peggy sits at her desk, organizing her books. We hear the end of the ANNOUNCEMENTS over the P.A. SYSTEM.
DOLORES: What's the matter, princess? Lost your prince? Peggy looks up at Dolores and starts to seethe. She stands up slowly and faces Dolores.
PEGGY: You know Dolores, there's a lot of things I could say to you, but you're not worth the effort. Peggy reaches down to up her books. On the top of the pile is an open fountain pen, which she picks up, pul1ing the release lever, squirting ink all over Dolores's dress. Dolores drops her books, looks down at her dress, horrified.
PEGGY: Sorry. These fountain pens are so Oh! You did that on purpose! I hate you. Go gargle with razor blades!
DOLORES: ( screams ) Oh! You did that on purpose! I hate you. Go gargle with razor blades!
PEGGY: I beg your pardon?
DOLORES: Take a long walk on a short pier.
PEGGY: Have a nice day.
PEGGY: Rosalie! Wait! Rosalie turns at the door, smiling. They are alone.
ROSALIE: What's up?
PEGGY: I think you should give up diving. It's dangerous.
ROSALIE: Don't be silly, I'm the best in the county.
PEGGY: I know you are, but you have to stop. I couldn't tell you before, I didn't know if I should. But you have to stop before you hurt I spend three hours a day practicing. I have trainers, I know what I'm doing.
ROSALIE: I spend three hours a day practicing. I have trainers, I know what I'm doing.
PEGGY: But accidents can happen.
ROSALIE: Not to me they don't. I'm going to win the State, then the. Nationals, and then I'm going to the Olympics.
PEGGY: Rosalie, please, listen to me! You have to stop.
ROSALIE: You're sick. You should go to the nurse. I'm going to tell Miss Rosalie exits into the pool area. Peggy feels helpless.
RICHARD: What's the matter?
PEGGY: It's all, gone wrong, nothing's working out.
RICHARD: Not true. I think I'm making real progress on the microchip.
PEGGY: You were meant to. You're one of those fortunate people that good things happen to. I have to get out of here. She starts to walk away.
RICHARD: Peggy, I believe you. I believe everything you told me. It's wonderful. You're the exception that proves the rule. She kisses him on the forehead.
PEGGY: I love you too, Richard. Thanks for She continues down the hallway.
CHARLIE: Hey, Peggy. Wait a minute. Peggy stops on the landing. Charlie joins her, so eager. He doesn't notice how distraught she is.
CHARLIE: I cut shop and did some work on your song. You know, it's not half bad for your first try. Of course, I changed all the "yeahs" to "oohs". Listen to this. Charlie begins to sing an R&B version of SHE LOVES YOU.
PEGGY: Forget it, it'll never work.
CHARLIE: Okay. Listen, I cancelled the tickets for Fabian. I thought it would be better for your birthday to eat at a nice restaurant, Chez Walter, Arthur, Maddy and Carol watch as Peggy runs away.
BUS DRIVER: Everybody gettin' off at Dumont. Here we are. Peggy stands and reaches above to take down her suitcase. Nervous, she drops it. A MAN, getting off the bus, helps her, picking it up.
PEGGY: Thank you.
MAN: No trouble at all. The man gets off the bus.
BARNEY: Hello, Lilla!
ELIZABETH: Peggy Sue! Peggy slowly walks down the steps, moved to tears. She approaches her grandparents and drops her suitcases. She hugs them tightly. The bus door closes and the bus pulls away behind them.
BARNEY: Quite a bit more rain than usual this year. I hope it doesn't spoil the rhubarb.
ELIZABETH: I've already got some in. I was thinking of making a pie for dinner How would you like that?
PEGGY: ( like a little girl ) ( beat ) ) Grandma, would you teach me how to make strudel?
ELIZABETH: That's a day's work. But if that's what you want, maybe we can do it tomorrow for your birthday.
BARNEY: What's the matter, Lilla? Somebody jump on your grave? Peggy shivers again and shakes her head.
ELIZABETH: You know, Peggy Sue, your mother said you had a dream that I died.
PEGGY: I wish she hadn't.
ELIZABETH: I'm not afraid. I know exactly when I'm going to die. Peggy is perplexed by her grandmother's apparent lack of What's it going to be, Elizabeth? Seventy—five? Eighty?
BARNEY: What's it going to be, Elizabeth? Seventy—five? Eighty?
ELIZABETH: I'm not telling.
BARNEY: I've been trying to drag it out of her for years. You know, dreams are fascinating business. 'Specially where you see the future.
PEGGY: Do you believe in all of that?
BARNEY: Well, I like to speculate. This book I'm reading right now, a woman in Colorado says she lived in Ireland a hundred and fifty years ago. Her name was Bridey Murphy- and she gives names and dates and where she lived. She was hypnotized. Big bestseller.
PEGGY: I remember that book! Grandpa, Grandma, I want to tell you something.
ELIZABETH: If you believe it, darling, then I believe. Being young can be just as confusing as being old. The things that happened to me fifty years ago are more on my mind than what happened yesterday.
PEGGY: But I'm remembering the future.
ELIZABETH: Right now you're just browsing through time. Choose the things you'll be proud of. The things that My children make me happy. I miss them so much. Beth. Scott and Beth. I'm going to name my daughter after EXT. FARMHOUSE DRIVEWAY — DUSK Peggy and Barney are washing the car at a standpipe, two hundred feet from the house.
PEGGY: My children make me happy. I miss them so much. Beth. Scott and Beth. I'm going to name my daughter after EXT. FARMHOUSE DRIVEWAY — DUSK Peggy and Barney are washing the car at a standpipe, two hundred feet from the house.
BARNEY: It's gonna rain again. Every time I wash the car, it rains.
PEGGY: That never changes. You know, when you and Grandma are gone, the family's gone. I never see the cousins anymore.
BARNEY: It's your grandma's strudel that's kept this family together.
PEGGY: Grandpa, if you had a chance to do it all again, what would you do?
BARNEY: ( jawing ) I'd take better care of my teeth.
ELIZABETH: What's Peggy Sue going to do at your lodge meeting?
BARNEY: It's her 18th birthday, I want to show her off. Barney turns and winks at Peggy.
PEGGY: It was my idea, Grandma. I always wondered what went on at those lodge meetings.
ELIZABETH: He won't tell me, but I've got my suspicions. And I don't want any of that. Don't keep her out late.
BARNEY: Let's go.
PEGGY: ( hugging Elizabeth ) Good—bye, Grandma.
ELIZABETH: Have a good time. Barney and Peggy open the door and exit.
PEGGY: What does Grandma think you do at your meetings?
BARNEY: Stag movies. Smokers. Peggy chuckles as they get into the car. The car proceeds along the driveway and turns onto the highway.
BARNEY: I may be an old fool, but I think we can help you.
PEGGY: I hope so. At least I got to see you and Grandma. Has it ever worked before?
BARNEY: The last one was six hundred years ago. It's about time for another INT. LODGE - NIGHT A one—story, pitch—roof building. The sign over the entrance reads.: THE ORDER OF THE GOLDEN DAWN. Underneath the sign is a logo of a spreading sunrise. Peggy and Barney pull up to the front, exit the car and enter the building.
GEORGE: Welcome, Peggy Sue. It's nice to have you with us.
PEGGY: Thank you.
HENRY: You know, you're a lucky girl. You could lay a bear trap in the aisle of the cathedral and never catch a better man than your grandfather.
PEGGY: Ah. thank you.
BARNEY: Let me take your jacket, Lilla. I've got, to get my robe. Peggy hands him her jacket as he heads over to the cloak, You know, this is very exciting for all of us.
AL: You know, this is very exciting for all of us.
GEORGE: We've been waiting a long time for someone like you. Barney rejoins them, wearing his hat and robe. The group begins to enter the main room.
PEGGY: ( nervous ) Do you have to wear that hat?
BARNEY: It wouldn't be a lodge without Barney takes her hand and squeezes it. They walk slowly through the doorway.
BARNEY: Don't you worry. I'll be watching after you.
HENRY: Hey, George. Get the lights. The LIGHTS are DIMMED. The room is lit by the candles. The men form a semi—circle around Peggy. Old men at the end of their lives, they are serious and passionate about the possibilities of life beyond this world. One by one, four men from either end of the line approach the altar with offerings: a cup of wine; an egg; a gold coin; and a rose. The men rejoin the line. LEO COOPER, a tall, white—haired man, takes two steps forward. The other men begin to sing a Gregorian chant.
LEO: ( to Peggy ) Are you ready, dear?
PEGGY: Yes, sir. Leo steps back, closes his eyes and spreads his arms.
PEGGY: Fasten your seat belts. Here we go.
LEO: Lord of the Universe, Vast and Mighty One. Ruler of Light, King of~ the sun. Creator of earth, air, fire and water. We adore thee and invoke thee! Grant thine aid. Look with favor upon us as we witness the regeneration of man. We behold the innocent endeavors of single—minded men and women. For we are the company of unbodied souls and immortal angels. We ask thy intervention, that this girl may return to thee on the wings of your This is never going to work. The old men form a circle in front of Peggy. They begin to circumambulate east to west, intoning together, their heads bowed. As Barney passes in front of Peggy, he winks at her. She smiles back.
PEGGY: ( sotto ) This is never going to work. The old men form a circle in front of Peggy. They begin to circumambulate east to west, intoning together, their heads bowed. As Barney passes in front of Peggy, he winks at her. She smiles back.
MEN: Fount of life, Chariot of the Spirit, Womb of the Mother, reclaim thy child of light. We HEAR a clap of distant THUNDER. Peggy trembles. The artificial bird falls off the plant. Peggy is struck with amazement. She begins to glow, poised to take off. The men continue to chant while:
GEORGE: ( chipper ) Well, the girl's gone. Let's play some poker. CLOSE ON BARNEY — He smiles, happy that she made it. George crosses to the wall, reaches behind the drapes and presses a button. The wall slides open to reveal a fully—equipped card room. The men shuffle in.
PEGGY: What the hell did you do that for? What are you doing here?
CHARLIE: I was trying to save you. They were going to vaporize you.
PEGGY: Don't be ridiculous! They're just a bunch of harmless old men. My grandfather was in there.
CHARLIE: You're going to listen to me. Charlie tries to Lead Peggy into the car.
PEGGY: I'm not getting in that blue Charlie pushes her inside, Peggy climbs back out. Charlie takes her hand and drags her up a hill behind the lodge hall.
PEGGY: Let me got! Where are you taking Right here. Now sit down. Charlie sits her down on the ground. She's impatient and hopping mad.
CHARLIE: Right here. Now sit down. Charlie sits her down on the ground. She's impatient and hopping mad.
CHARLIE: Look. I wanna tell you. I forgive you for everything. I know what you've been going through. You're just scared. I was scared, too, but I'm not anymore.
PEGGY: How could you possibly know what I've been going through? Thunder and lightning. It starts to rain.
CHARLIE: Because I love you, damnit! I had a long talk with your father yesterday and we decided that the best thing for us to do is get married and settle down. Right Peggy jumps up, exploding to Charlie.
PEGGY: What do you mean you and my father decided? Who the hell are you to plan my life? Let's get married and live happily ever after. Bullshit. I got knocked up. I had to marry you. I never had a choice.
CHARLIE: You betrayed me, Charlie. You were never there for me or the children. And now you come and tell me, "Peggy, you're scared." Of course I'm scared. If you knew what I knew you'd be scared shitless.
PEGGY: You betrayed me, Charlie. You were never there for me or the children. And now you come and tell me, "Peggy, you're scared." Of course I'm scared. If you knew what I knew you'd be scared shitless.
CHARLIE: You're crazy! You're really out of your mind!
PEGGY: I might be crazy, but I'm not crazy enough to marry you twice. There's a lot of things I can't change. I can't even think about them. I tried. But I couldn't even help I don't want to be bitter. I'm a naturally optimistic person. But you took advantage of that. Charlie bends down to comfort her, in tears. He hugs Peggy and strokes her hair.
CHARLIE: Oh, Peggy. My poor Peggy. It's all my fault. I'm so sorry. I won't bother you anymore. I promise. Please stop crying. Please. Peggy starts to compose herself.
PEGGY: Will you take me back to my Of course. Charlie helps her up. Be reaches into his pocket and takes out a small box, handing it to Peggy.
CHARLIE: Of course. Charlie helps her up. Be reaches into his pocket and takes out a small box, handing it to Peggy.
CHARLIE: It's almost your birthday. I wasn't sure when you were coming back, so I brought your present up here. With a slow, growing remembrance, Peggy opens the box. Inside is the gold locket Peggy was wearing at the reunion.
PEGGY: ( anguished ) Oh, Charlie.
CHARLIE: It opens, too. Look inside. Peggy opens the locket. She shivers with recognition.
PEGGY: Scott and Beth. Where did you get Who's Scott and Beth? Your mother gave me our picture. That's you and So are Scott and Beth. Peggy leans into Charlie, throwing her arms around him, holding on for dear life. She looks up at him, their foreheads touching.
CHARM E: Who's Scott and Beth? Your mother gave me our picture. That's you and So are Scott and Beth. Peggy leans into Charlie, throwing her arms around him, holding on for dear life. She looks up at him, their foreheads touching.
PEGGY: So are Scott and Beth. Peggy leans into Charlie, throwing her arms around him, holding on for dear life. She looks up at him, their foreheads touching.
CHARLIE: ( tenderly ) I love you.
PEGGY: I know. Charlie kisses her, passionately. The locket drops to the ground. HOLD on the locket, and.
CHARLIE: I think we should get out of here. It's going to rain.
PEGGY: ( musing ) Do you think anybody in the Fifties ever made love on a bed?
CHARLIE: What the hell is that? Flying high above them is an enormous, glowing, liquid neon kite. The center of the kite inscribed in lights, flashing like a marquee: HAPPY BIRTHDAY PEGGY SUE. The kite begins to descend towards them. Peggy jumps to her feet and races towards it. She grabs the tail and starts to sail away with the kite. Charlie chases after her.
CHARLIE: Peggy! Where're you going? Come I've got to go now.
PEGGY: I've got to go now.
CHARLIE: But I love you. I'll love you I'll love you, too, Charlie. I'll love you for twenty years.
PEGGY: I'll love you, too, Charlie. I'll love you for twenty years.
CHARLIE: Come back to me.
PEGGY: I'm trying. As Charlie watches helplessly, a huge bolt of lightning strikes his car. Peggy smiles. The men from the lodge run outside. They look up and above the blazing car and see Peggy floating away. Peggy sees her grandfather in the crowd and blows him a kiss. Charlie begins to run, following the kite cord to its source. He finds Richard, struggling to restrain the runaway kite.
CHARLIE: Richard, do something!
RICHARD: I can't! It's out of control! Suddenly the cord breaks. Peggy floats away.
CHARLIE: Charlie, Richard and the old men behold Peggy, bobbing and dipping playfully in the sky. We begin to HEAR Charlie's VOICE singing "Peggy Sue" O.S. Peggy looks down with wonder at the earth, and then like a comet, soars into the blackness. In an instant she becomes a star.
FINAL SCENE: HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY Moving from two to C.U. Peggy, fragments of the reunion, the cake coming towards her, fragments of words in echo effect: 'Your heart stopped for a while." Father's voice: 'You're a very lucky young lady.' Doctor: 'A ( explain ) of the head.' Mom's voice: 'But you're going to be all right now, the paramedics got there.' Mom, 'We were so Echoing of, until once voice is left. Charlie. Sitting opposite her bed, as he has been every minute of her illness. He looks wan and old, worried sick, but trying to sing 'Peggy Sue' for her.
CHARLIE: ( singing softly ). Peggy Sue, I love you, and I need you Peggy Sue.
PEGGY: Charlie? Was I dead?
CHARLIE: I thought you were.for a while.
PEGGY: ( affectionately ) You look awful, like you haven't slept in days. And so old.
CHARLIE: But happy. Very happy, Peggy Sue.
PEGGY: Charlie, I thought I knew everything about you.
CHARLIE: I wanted to apologize. I can't live without you.
PEGGY: What about Janet?
CHARLIE: That's over. I got tired of translating everything. She thought the Big Hopper was a hamburger. Charlie laughs uncomfortably and Peggy Sue looks around her hospital room.
PEGGY: Who are all the flowers from? Charlie pushes himself out of his chair and moves toward the Everyone. Maddie and Arthur, Carol and Walter. Richard Norvick. And here's a book, by that guy from high school, Michael Fitzsimmons. He dedicated it to you. Charlie returns to Peggy's bedside and opens the front cover of the book. ANGLE ON BOOK: the front page bears the title "The Pilgrim Soul" and the dedication reads "to Peggy Sue and a Starry Peggy smiles but shakes her head.
CHARLIE: Everyone. Maddie and Arthur, Carol and Walter. Richard Norvick. And here's a book, by that guy from high school, Michael Fitzsimmons. He dedicated it to you. Charlie returns to Peggy's bedside and opens the front cover of the book. ANGLE ON BOOK: the front page bears the title "The Pilgrim Soul" and the dedication reads "to Peggy Sue and a Starry Peggy smiles but shakes her head.
PEGGY: It couldn't be me. I hardly knew I'll just set it right here. He places the book on her bedside table as he sits back down.
CHARLIE: I'll just set it right here. He places the book on her bedside table as he sits back down.
PEGGY: Charlie, I had a strange experience. I went back to high school. And I spent a lot of time with you. And you and Walter and Leon were singing "I Wonder Why".
CHARLIE: Oh, God, Dion.
PEGGY: You were terrific. And I kept trying to push you away but you wouldn't give up.
CHARLIE: I'll never give up.
PEGGY: Then hold me. He holds her hand.
CHARLIE: I loved you since the day I met you, and I haven't stopped.
PEGGY: Don't try to charm me, Charlie Listen, I don't expect all the troubles between us can just vanish away. But I would do what I can.
CHARLIE: Listen, I don't expect all the troubles between us can just vanish away. But I would do what I can.
PIGGY: Charlie, please, I need some time.
CHARLIE: Well, I'll let you get some rest.so long. The VIEW PULLS BACK past the flowers. Charlie starts to exit. Checks himself in the mirror.
PEGGY: Charlie, I would like to invite you to dinner at home, on Sunday, with your kids. I will make a strudel. He hurries back to her, kisses her again. They hang on to each other as Beth enters the room.
RICHARD: You know, Peggy, there's so many things to look forward to in the Peggy leans over and kisses him, sadly, on the forehead.
PEGGY: I came to say goodbye.
RICHARD: Goodbye? Where're you going? What about our partnership? I'm making real progress with the microchip.
PEGGY: You were meant to You're one of those fortunate people that good things happen to.
RICHARD: So are you. You've got a vision.
PEGGY: ( manic ) Vision? I'm a walking anachronism! I've upset my parents. I miss my kids. I could be trapped here forever! And poor Charlie.I got pregnant on my 18th birthday and we had to get married. Tomorrow's my birthday! I've got to get out of here now.
RICHARD: Did you break up with Charlie?
PEGGY: Yeah, yeah. I'm taking a big gamble. I've loved him for a long, long time.
RICHARD: Okay. Why don't we do something visionary. Change your destiny, Peggy Sue. Change your destiny and marry me.
PEGGY: ( slamming down book ) No! No! No! Peggy Sue got married! Case closed. I don't want to marry anybody. Goodbye Richard.
RICHARD: Wait! I'll go with you!
PEGGY: You can't. You're going to be Valedictorian. Writers : Jerry Leichtling Arlene Sarner
