FOR EDUCATIONAL: PURPOSES ONLY
PURPOSES ONLY: bus crash this is the kind of music they'd play in heaven.
WHITE SCREEN: which transforms to a milky white and eventually into a bright high noon sun. A large black bird flies in circles overhead. As it wipes the sun a bright flare causes.
NAOMI: Judy Baumer is going as a twirler.
RUTH: But she's so fat. I'd go as Cinderella. or Peter Pan.
NAOMI: Peter Pan's a boy. Tinker Bell's a girl. Phillip could go as Peter Pan. 'cept you gotta' fly. Phillip smiles a bit at the notion.
RUTH: Phillip could go as a bump on a log. The girls giggle and Phillip frowns.
PHILLIP: Why can't we go just once?
NAOMI: Caus' we jus' can't, ok? Gladys sets milk and butter on the table and stares directly at her son.
GLADYS: Our personal beliefs lift us to a higher place. 'Sides, Halloween is nothing but the Devil's work. The DOORBELL RINGS. The kids gulp as Gladys turns and heads for the door.
KIDS: ( in unison ) Trick or treat!!! I'm sorry but we don't take no part in Excuse me?
GLADYS: I'm sorry but we don't take no part in Excuse me? Phillip arrives at his mother's apron. He stares at the kids with relish. In the near window, Ruth and Naomi steal a look through the window.
MR. HUGHES: Excuse me? Phillip arrives at his mother's apron. He stares at the kids with relish. In the near window, Ruth and Naomi steal a look through the window.
GLADYS: We're Jehovah's Witness. Superman locks eyes with Phillip.
SUPERMAN: Hey, Phillip Perry.
PHILLIP: Hey, Billy Reeves.
SUPERMAN: How'd ya' know it was me?
GLADYS: Go eat your supper, Phillip.
MR. HUGHES: Come on, kids. Let's go to the next house. Sorry for the bother. Gladys closes the door firmly and locks it.
GUARD: Evenin', Larry. Forget somethin'?
LARRY: Goin' to Austin tomorrow. Gonna' take some work with me.
GUARD: Work, work, work. When you and me gonna' go out and grab a cold one?
LARRY: Sooner the better. The gate opens and the Impala passes.
BUTCH: Damn if the old man ain't right. Jerry smiles, turns and grabs the old man by the shirt.
JERRY: And this goes to the roof?
OLD TIMER: Used to. afore they walled it over.
JERRY: If it don't I'm gonna' rip your tongue out.
OLD TIMER: Get yer' damn hands off me! Jerry laughs and joins Butch, who is already well on his way to bending open a slot in a corrugated metal air shaft hidden behind the wall.
SUPERMAN: Make 'em small so you can heave 'em.
PHYLLIS: What in the world? Phillip jumps down off his stool and races into the living Superman lofts a BALLOON and grabs another as the first hits the door of the Perry house and SPLATTERS.
SUPERMAN: Bombs away! Dancing Skeleton does his best Warren Spahn and tosses a wet fastball at the door.
SKELETON: Here's your trick! At the window, Phillip, his nose pressed to the pane, stares expressionless at the onslaught. He barely flinches as a BALLOON SPLATS only inches away. Gladys arrives and pulls the curtains shut once more.
JERRY: You'n'me must be livin' right, Butchie boy!
BUTCH: Let's get something straight. I don't like you. As soon as we're on our way, that's it.
JERRY: Who said I liked you? Butch slides down and hangs from the ledge before dropping on the roof of the building below.
GUARD: Have a safe trip now, Larry.
BUTCH: ( to Larry ) Keep yer' mouth shut.
JERRY: ( to Larry ) Gawd I'd love to blow yer' head off.
GUARD: 'Night, Larry.
JERRY: 'Night, Larry.
MAE: Not since last night. How's the pie?
RED: Kinda rubbery. It was better yesterday.
MAE: Same pie as yesterday. Not much call for rhubarb. Sell one slice a day. In the background we hear a SIREN. Red turns and watches a police patrol car whiz past, lights on.
MAE: Yer off duty. Tell me, if I stopped bakin' 'em would you still come by every night? Red, preoccupied, takes another rubbery bite.
RED: I don't know. Mae smiles and turns her back to Red as she cleans the grill.
MAE: Naw, Red Garnett, you don't come in here for the coffee and pie. You come in here for the company. To see me. Another patrol car races past. Red's eyes follow it.
MAE: Now that I've said that, I'll go one better. What say I cook you dinner at my place sometime? Steaks, baked taters, cold beer, the works. Well?. I'm askin' you out. She turns to face Red but he's gone. A coupla dollars lie next to the half-eaten pie. All she can do is sigh.
SERGEANT: Long time, no see. What are you doin' here, Chief?
RED: Couldn't sleep. Whattaya got?
SERGEANT: Guy holdin' his family hostage. She kicked him out, served him divorce papers, he came back drunk and pulled a .38. Fired two shots but we don't think anybody's hit. Actually you might know the guy from your sheriff days. Hayden Webb. Been on suspension for awhile. Ring any bells?
RED: Yeah. Lemme talk to him.
SERGEANT: No can do. Police jurisdiction. Red tastes the coffee cold. He spits it out, pours the contents of the cup on the ground and walks toward the front yard. Sergeant follows.
RED: And how are you guys doin'?
SERGEANT: We got specific rules to follow in these kinda situations, Red. He won't talk. Jus' keeps yellin', crying and waving his gun around. Red moves forward into the yard.
SERGEANT: At least use the megaphone, you stubborn But Red ignores and arrives at the front door. He knocks.
RED: Hayden, this is Red Garnett. We worked together a few years back. Mind if I come in? The YELLING inside STOPS and the door opens a crack. HAYDEN, 35, distraught, peers out.
HAYDEN: 'Evenin', Chief.
RED: Leave it to the P.D. They got a three- ring circus out there and not one cup of hot coffee. You mind? Hayden mulls it over, then opens the door.
HAYDEN: Julie, put a pot of coffee on. She slowly gets up and moves to the kitchen, still weeping.
RED: Appreciate it. Jus' what is it you want, I dunno. I want my job. I want my family.
HAYDEN: I dunno. I want my job. I want my family.
RED: What'd they suspend you for?
HAYDEN: I answer a call in South Austin. Girl gettin' raped, that's the word. I bust in the door, this lowlife is beatin' the shit outta her with a tire iron. 'Help me, help me,' she says. I take the guy down. He bites me. I break his arm. Case closed, right? No. She was his wife and they both sue me and the department. The guy's about to kill her and she sues me 'cause now he can't pump gas. They have chump change in the bank but they got the best lawyer in town. Three months I'm goin' crazy. No pay. Then my wife leaves me and I get served divorce papers by John Reese a sheriff's man. You know how embarrassin' that is? What's happenin', Chief? I mean, everybody's got a fuckin' lawyer! Julie emerges from the kitchen and retakes her seat.
RED: You love her? Love the kids?
HAYDEN: Then why do you hit me! Hayden grips the quivering revolver tight and points it at her. Red calms the situation.
JULIE: Then why do you hit me! Hayden grips the quivering revolver tight and points it at her. Red calms the situation.
RED: You don't wanna shoot her.
HAYDEN: I swear to God I think I do.
RED: Naw, Hayden, I don't think so. I think you love her. You know what else I think? That you'd like a way out of this whole mess. That's where I come in.
SERGEANT: Well, I'll be damned.
NEW ANGLE: The front door opens and Julie emerges with her two kids. She takes a few cautious steps, then runs to the police.
RED: Hits the spot. Hayden starts to sob a bit. Red hands over a handkerchief which Hayden accepts.
HAYDEN: No cuffs, huh, Chief?
RED: Okay. You ready? Hayden nods, they stand. Red picks up his hat, sticks it on his head, opens the door and holds it for. Hayden, transfixed by the multitude of lights outside. He We'll walk out together, okay? Hayden steps back, looks at Red, then reaches behind his back, underneath his shirt and pulls out a .22 pistol.
RED: We'll walk out together, okay? Hayden steps back, looks at Red, then reaches behind his back, underneath his shirt and pulls out a .22 pistol.
HAYDEN: Any good officer has a back-up. Red holds his palms out and takes a step toward Hayden.
RED: Lemme have it, Hayden. Hayden points the gun at Red, freezing him.
HAYDEN: Was I a good officer, Chief? Red nods.
HAYDEN: Was I a good deputy? The kinda man you could depend on to do what's right?
RED: Hayden smiles.
HAYDEN: Thank you. Then he turns the GUN on himself, swallows the barrel and BLOWS his brains out.
COP: Got a call, Chief Garnett. They're lookin' for ya downtown. Red slowly walks away. The little boy's eyes follow him.
JERRY: Hey, wait up! Jerry's feet scurry through a pool of blood and past a quivering hand.
RED: ( on phone ) Cons are creatures o' habit. Like old coyotes, they'll crawl back into familiar holes. Uh huh. Yeah. Sure yer' right. Listen you go back to bed and I'll call you in the A.M. with an update. I'll have the files by then. Say hullo to the Mrs..
JERRY: There's a Buick.
BUTCH: Don't want a Buick. Want a Ford.
JERRY: Ford's leak oil. A car's a car. Butch puts on the brakes and brings the car to a stop.
BUTCH: Then take the Buick.
JERRY: Soon as we cross state line I'll do just I'm tired of riding around. I'll check down the block. for a Ford! Jerry gets out, slams the door, lights a cigarette and walks Butch waits a few seconds, quietly turns the key one notch and checks the gas ggauge. It reads almost empty. He taps it with his finger but it doesn't budge. He sighs, looks up and sees.
JERRY: as he checks one locked car, then feeling eyes on his back, turns, looks at Butch, grins and disappears around a corner. BUTCH discreetly exits the car himself, carefully closing the door without a sound.
GLADYS: Thank you, Phillip. Go wake up your Phillip dutifully steps down and returns to the living room. Gladys works to adjust her slip, then grabs plates and silverware and takes them to the table.
JERRY: I take mine fried.
JERRY: A lil' on the bland side. Gimme' that She picks up a bottle of Heinz and inches toward him. When she gets close, he grabs her and forces her onto his lap. He holds the gun to her throat and whispers in her ear.
JERRY: Don't got a man around here, do ya'?
JERRY: Feed me, sweet thing. Her shaking hands raise a forkful of eggs to his lips. He licks them once then gobbles with gusto. Phillip enters the room and stops dead in his tracks.
JERRY: Well lookie here, you do got a man! Jerry smiles at Phillip while he kisses and licks Glady's neck. At once, Phillip darts across the room at Jerry, who backhands the boy with his gunhand, sending Phillip sprawling. Butch blasts through the door in an instant. With a swift kick to the head, Jerry is knocked senseless onto the floor against the cabinets. The gun slides across the floor and lands at Phillip's feet.
JERRY: ( holding his ear ) I'm bleedin'! You happy?
BUTCH: What's your name, boy?
PHILLIP: ( scared shitless ) Ph. Phillip.
BUTCH: Well, okay Phillip. Reach down and pick up that pistola.
JERRY: Give it to me.
BUTCH: ( to Jerry ) Shut yer' mouth. ( to Phillip ) Pick it up and bring it over here.
BUTCH: Now say 'stick 'em up.'
PHILLIP: ( hesitant ) Stick 'em up.
MR. CUMMINGS: Standing outside the screen door, gun leveled. Before the old man can utter a syllable, Butch grabs Phillip and points the gun straight at Cummings. Jerry jumps up and grabs Gladys.
BUTCH: Put the gun down, old timer. You couldn't hit me anyway. Probably shoot the boy. The PHONE RINGS.
BUTCH: Leave it be. The twins wiping sleep from their eyes, wander into the room.
NAOMI: It's all right, honey. PHONE continues to RING. Cummings can't decide what to do with the gun he's pointing at Butch.
GLADYS: It's all right, honey. PHONE continues to RING. Cummings can't decide what to do with the gun he's pointing at Butch.
JERRY: You deaf?!!!
BUTCH: Set it on the ground. Cummings reluctantly obeys.
JERRY: We gotta' get the hell outta'here!
JERRY: Shut up!
JERRY: ( re: Gladys ) I vote we bring her with us.
BUTCH: How we gonna' get outta' here without a hostage, tell me that? The whole goddam neighborhood's awake.
JERRY: How we gonna' get outta' here without a hostage, tell me that? The whole goddam neighborhood's awake.
BUTCH: We'll take the boy.
GLADYS: Jerry tosses Gladys aside. She collapses onto the floor. The TWINS instantly start to CRY. Phillip winds up and hits Butch as hard as he can. Butch picks him up, directs Cummings into the kitchen with the gun and nods for Jerry to lead.
BUTCH: You'll get him back. I swear it.
JERRY: Ain't you folks ever heard of sleepin' Cummings races from behind the house with the SHOTGUN, levels it and FIRES a BLAST. A nearby station wagon WINDOW SHATTERS. Rising from their cover position, its owners look at Cummings with disgust.
OWNER: Nice shootin', Fred.
RED: ( into phone ) Yes, Johnny, I do understand that.
RED'S FACE: A hint of recognition. The jabbering continues.
RED: keeps staring at the photo, oblivious to the phone conversa- tion he's "not having".
ADLER: ( a whisper ) ( to Adler ) ( a whisper )
RED: ( to Adler ) ( a whisper )
ADLER: ( a whisper ) He's talkin' to ya'.
RED: ( into phone ) Yeah, Johnny. Jus' thinkin' is all..
ADLER: ( another whisper ) Press has been waiting almost an hour, Red.
RED: ( into phone ) Yeah.. Clear as a bell. Mi' sabe.
ADLER: What'd he say?
RED: ( distracted )
ADLER: The Guvner', Red. Red closes the file.
RED: Reminded me it's an election year. Red turns his attention to Sally.
RED: You drink before noon?
SALLY: ( confused ) Uh. no.
RED: Good. Last one I had was on a liquid diet.
SALLY: Last what?
RED: ( remembering ) Penny Munroe.
ADLER: ( remembering ) Penny Munroe.
SALLY: I believe you have me confused. I'm here from Huntsville. Assigned by Governor Red is confused. He turns a blank expression to Adler.
RED: Adler. what is this? Adler searches the messy desk for something.
ADLER: Rings a bell, Red. Believ' they sent us something about her this mornin'.
RED: Who sent?.
ADLER: . Guvner', Red. Adler finds the telex message sheet he's looking for and hands it to Red.
ADLER: . Here it is.
SALLY: ( introducing ) Uh, I'm Sally Gerber. Criminologist with the State Prison System.
ADLER: Tom Adler. Deputy. State Police. It's a relatively new procedure but I was assigned by Governor Connally.
SALLY: It's a relatively new procedure but I was assigned by Governor Connally.
RED: ( reading from telex ) . 'to work with State law enforcement officials in all affairs where penal matters coincide with those of the State Police.' It don't say nuthin' about.
SALLY: . It includes parole and work release programs as well as penal escape situations. The office PHONE BUZZES. Adler picks it up.
ADLER: ( into phone ) On our way, Marge.
ADLER: Gettin' antsy, Red. You scheduled it. Adler hangs up, grabs Red's tie and coat from a brass rung on the wall and hands them over. Red puts down the telex, stares at Sally and reluctantly attempts to make himself presentable.
SALLY: The idea is that an understanding of the particular behavioral case histories should, in parole situations, help the subject to avoid habitual traps and, in penal escape situations could, conversely, identify those self-same traps as an aide to apprehension.
RED: In the first place, Miss Gerber.
SALLY: Sally, please.
RED: In the first place, Sally, it ain't a 'penal escape situation.' It's a manhunt. Fancy words in a circle don't help much.
SALLY: And what does?
RED: A nose like a Blue Tick, a medulla with an antenna and one helluva lot of coffee. And with that he's out the door.
RED: Listen up, I'll only say it once. At approximately ten o'clock last night two inmates over to Huntsville, Robert 'Butch' Haynes and Jerry David Pugh, escaped through an air shaft, grabbed a prison employee's car and got out through the main gate. At approximately 1 A.M. we believe they robbed a market outside of Cut-n-Shoot and killed the store's owner.
REPORTER #1: Is the prison employee with them?
RED: Was when they left the prison. Sally and Adler enter the room and stand beside the lectern observing. Red notices them.
REPORTER #2: What's the rap sheet on these guys like?
RED: Long as Christmas eve to a kid. Haynes was doin' 40 for armed robbery and Pugh was ridin' 20 hisself for manslaughter and assorted parole vios.
REPORTER #3: Is there any indication of.
RED: . Lemme' finish, Billy. This mornin' another hostage was taken. from a private home in Madisonville. A boy, age 8. Grabbed him out of bed.
REPORTER #1: Any sex offenses on Haynes or Pugh?
RED: Yer' askin' if they're preverts. Well, one is.
REPORTER #4: You got inter-agency cooperation on this?
RED: Texas Rangers as the criminal investigation arm of the D.P.S. share responsibility with the F.B.I. due to the kid being taken. But I doubt they're out of bed yet. A few chuckles.
REPORTER #3: Red, how do you plan to apprehend the Officially I can only say we have a full manhunt team on their trail and we'll proceed with due haste.
RED: Officially I can only say we have a full manhunt team on their trail and we'll proceed with due haste.
REPORTER #3: And unofficially? Red hesitates a moment, something's bothering him, then blurts Unoffically? I'm gonna' hunt 'em like the rabid dogs they are.
RED: Unoffically? I'm gonna' hunt 'em like the rabid dogs they are.
RED: That's all I've got but I'd like to introduce ya' to Miss Sally Gerber. She's straight from the Governor's office. Knows all about psychological profiles and the like. You probably have some questions for her. Red steps back and to one side. Sally is taken aback but then warms to the idea and steps to the podium for her first press conference, ready to take on the tough questions, to show off a bit, but.. There are no questions. In fact there is utter silence as every raised hand drops. Eyes stare. Red sighs and starts to walk away.
RED: Look, fellas, I got work to do. And he heads out the door, followed by Sally's eyes and every reporter's in the room, who commence once again to yell out questions and mob after the Chief. Every reporter, that is, except one. He's near the back of the room and he smiles and raises his Sally, unsure what to do, looks to him.
SALLY: You have a question?
REPORTER: Yes I do. Sally smiles a bit then puts on her serious face awaiting.
REPORTER: You doin' anything tonight? Sally, steamed, glares at the guy and stomps out of the I'm serious!
REPORTER: I'm serious!
BUTCH: We got a handful of caps and yer' shootin' water tanks. He's a smart guy, huh, Phillip? Phillip doesn't move or change expression. Jerry smiles, almost to himself, and FIRES TWICE more for the hell of it. The ROOF of the Impala EXPLODES with two holes as the car speeds off down the highway.
ADLER: All right, that's it, boys. Chief's got work to do. Red and Adler move through the parking lot to SAUNDERS, 50, an aide to the Governor. Saunder's seconds are a PHOTOGRAPHER, young and energetic, and SUTTLE, 35, dark-haired, with a Saunders shakes Red's hand and they turn to gaze upon.
SAUNDERS: So whattaya' think? Saunders motions for the Photographer to come closer and take pictures. He moves in next to Red and poses as the camera We are very proud of this baby. Governor Connally special ordered it so state officials and dignitaries can ride in the parade in Dallas. You know President Kennedy's comin'?
SAUNDERS: We are very proud of this baby. Governor Connally special ordered it so state officials and dignitaries can ride in the parade in Dallas. You know President Kennedy's comin'?
RED: So I hear.
SAUNDERS: Latest technology, oversized engine, complete kitchen and sleeping quarters, gun racks, frig, stove, the works. Even got a hot line phone straight to the Governor's office. Red stops circling and nods to Adler, who scurries away.
RED: Fine piece of machinery.
SAUNDERS: What's more, as soon as it gets back from Dallas it will be at your requisitioned disposal. Perfect for lots of situations a headquarters on wheels. Red smiles, walks up to one of the Lone Star decals and rips it off.
RED: We'll take it.
SAUNDERS: Uh, Chief?.. Red rips off another decal. Adler and a few others start to load equipment, guns and files into the motor home. In addition they cart out unecessary items: mattresses, etc. and stack them in a pile outside the motor home. The Photographer continues to snap photos.
SAUNDERS: ( to Red ) Whattaya' doin', Red?! ( to Photographer ) Stop takin' pictures!
SAUNDERS: It's jus' not possible, Red. The Governor's gonna' ride it in a campaign parade tomorrow.
RED: Guvner' hisself told me this manhunt was top priority.
ADLER: ( to Saunders ) S'cuse me. ( to Red ) This here's Bobby Lee. He's a specialist with the Feds. They want him to tag along.
SAUNDERS: Please, Red, ya' gotta' believe me. Red spots Suttle, 35, bright-eyed, with a cowlick, sitting at the wheel of the Chevy truck.
RED: Who are you?
SUTTLE: Dick Suttle, the driver.
RED: Not anymore. Bradley. BRADLEY, 35, glasses, moves to the truck and gets in. Suttle shrugs and steps out. Saunders stops Suttle and turns to Red.
SAUNDERS: This man stays with the vehicle wherever it goes, Red!
RED: ( to Suttle ) You know how to operate the gadgets?
SUTTLE: ( to Suttle ) Grab a seat.
RED: ( to Suttle ) Grab a seat.
SAUNDERS: Please Red, I'm beggin'. I mean, what am I suppose to tell the Governor? Sally arrives but before she can spit out a word.
RED: Tell John that Miss Gerber here checked me out on it. Red whistles and the ENGINE REVS. Red closes the door as the motor home pulls away. Saunders runs beside the passenger side window and yells in to Suttle, who stares out the window.
SAUNDERS: Not a scratch, you hear me, Suttle? Not a scratch! Saunders stops, breathing hard, next to Sally. She's pissed and overloaded with files.
AIRSTREAM: about 20 yards down the way, comes to a stop. A second later the door opens and the steps pop out. Sally walks toward the bus but when she arrives at the door. . LAUGHTER filters out of the Airstream. The Airstream moves another 20 feet then stops. Sally waits a full five seconds, then she blows the hair out of her eyes and, against her better judgment, moves cautiously forward, the file boxes getting heavier by the minute. Again, when she gets close. .the Airstream moves. Sally, boiling mad as her coiffure wilts in the Texas sun, stops, and tosses down the file box in anger. The Airstream stops. LAUGHTER from inside and a few AD LIBS, i.e. "Okay, Okay." More LAUGHTER. Red steps out the door, turns his gaze back inside and the laughter and comments stop on a dime. Smiling slightly he turns to Sally, moves straight for the file box, picks it up and walks back to the Airstream. When he arrives at the steps he turns, looks to Sally, who stews and holds her ground.
RED: You comin' or not? She hesitates only a moment before walking straight to Red, grabbing back her file box and entering in front of him.
SALLY: I've got it.
SALLY: You've got shit on your face.
JERRY: Why the hell we stoppin'?
BUTCH: You said you had a cousin near here.
JERRY: So give him a call. See if we can shack there til' things cool down.
BUTCH: So give him a call. See if we can shack there til' things cool down.
PHILLIP: Why'd he take the keys?
BUTCH: So I won't leave him.
PHILLIP: ( a tad hopeful ) Would you leave him?
BUTCH: Oh yeah. In the b.g. Jerry rips the 20 page phone book in half and returns to the car, half pleased with himself. He tosses the keys to Butch, who starts the car and drives off.
JERRY: Musta' moved. Prolly' couldn't have heard 'em anyway. Goddam ear's still bleedin'. You ever try that shit again.
BUTCH: You were in the middle of threatenin' me.
JERRY: You were in the middle of threatenin' me.
BUTCH: You were in the middle of threatenin' me.
JERRY: ( from the movies ) Ain't a threat. It's a fact.
BUTCH: Here kid, take the wheel. Phillip, scared at the prospect, nevertheless does his best to see over the dash and keep the wheel straight. Butch turns back over the seat to confront Jerry.
BUTCH: In two seconds I'm gonna' break your nose. That's a threat.
BUTCH: . And that's a fact. Instead of expressing outrage, Jerry slinks back down in the seat wearing a look of pure hatred.
JERRY: I'm gonna' kill you for that.
BUTCH: And that's a threat. Beginnin' to understand the difference? Somethin' catches Butch's eye and he turns and slows down and turns into.
BUTCH: Okay, Phillip, listen up. I'm gonna' run in here and get some smokes.
JERRY: Get beer. Butch hands Phillip the revolver.
BUTCH: Here, hold it like this.. And point it right between his eyes.
JERRY: What the hell?.
BUTCH: ( to Phillip ) If he so much as moves you pull the trigger . right here. Put your finger on it.
JERRY: Yer' a fuckin' crazy man.
BUTCH: And that's a fact. I believe yer gettin' the hang of this. Butch steps out of the car and heads for the market.
BUTCH: How-do. Where's yer' sodees?
MAN: Hot in the first aisle. Cold in the back, in the cooler.
JERRY: You ever shot a gun before, boy? No answer. Phillip steals a glance at the store, anxious for Butch to return.
JERRY: Powww!!!. It'll knock you on your ass.
PHILLIP: Be quiet, mister.
JERRY: Naw. You ain't never shot no gun before. Livin' in a house with three split tails. no Daddy around. You'll prolly' grow up queer, you know that? A bead of sweat rolls down Phillip's cheek.
JERRY: Now I'm gonna' lean up here real slow, okay? So we can talk. Jerry raises his hands, palms up and slowly leans forward in the back seat. Phillip's hand quivers but he doesn't pull the trigger.
JERRY: There we go. Now we can have a 'man to man.' You are a man, ain't ya'?
JERRY: Those are cute little underwears you got there, boy. Say does your mama sew yer' name in 'em, initials or anything? Jerry's hand slowly reaches down to the white briefs. He places one finger in the front elastic waistband and slowly pulls it open.
JERRY: Whatcha' got in there? Jerry sneaks a peek.
JERRY: Kinda' puny, ain't it? Phillip, diverted, looks down. In a flash Jerry grabs the The hand is quicker than the eye. Jerry flicks open the revolver, spins it empty slots.
JERRY: The hand is quicker than the eye. Jerry flicks open the revolver, spins it empty slots.
JERRY: ( re: Butch ) That sonofabitch. Hell's bells, no
OLD MAN: This be all for ya'?
BUTCH: This and a carton of Chesterfields. Are those .38 shells? Gimme a box. The Old Man puts the cigs and shells on the counter and starts to tally the bill on a notepad.
OLD MAN: With deposit comes to four dollars eighty.
OLD MAN: Land's sake. What line of work you in?
BUTCH: Used cars. Buy 'em, fix 'em up. Sold a Cadillac down in Madisonville this mornin'.
OLD MAN: Don't say.
JERRY: Come over a little closer.
JERRY: no longer stumbling, now grinning maniacally, gives chase, whistling as if calling for a lost puppy.
JERRY: I'm gonna' find you boy. You best come here.
PHILLIP: gun in hand, stumbles, falls, gets up, keeps running. He falls again and crawls to a stop. He wipes his tears and balls up on the ground trying to make himself invisible.
HIS POV: The hay rustles as Jerry moves through the field.
JERRY: a little frustrated now, but still moving forward.
JERRY: ( a whisper ) Hey boy. Hey boy. You better hope I don't find ya'.
BUTCH: squatted down, who levels the revolver and closes one eye. Jerry laughs.
JERRY: Whatcha' gonna' do? Hit me with it?
JERRY: ( pleading ) Me'n you are friends!!!!
BUTCH: Thick as theives.
PHILLIP: hears a GUNSHOT and runs for his life back toward the store.
BUTCH: ( to Old Man ) You got a phone?
OLD MAN: Then go inside and lie down til' we're gone. The Old Man meekly does so. Butch goes to the car door, opens it and motions to a frozen stiff Phillip.
BUTCH: Then go inside and lie down til' we're gone. The Old Man meekly does so. Butch goes to the car door, opens it and motions to a frozen stiff Phillip.
BUTCH: Well. Get in.
ADLER: Got a spot on 'em. A store right outside of Benhur. About 20 miles from here. Adler sets down the mike, sticks a tack on the map and stands All right. Push the roadblock on 288 north by 50 miles. Kaiser calls in the instructions. ( NOTE: Kaiser's radio transmissions are not scripted but go on a lot of the time we're in the Airstream. In addition, his and Adler's direc- tions and missives to Bradley in the truck are not all scripted. )
RED: All right. Push the roadblock on 288 north by 50 miles. Kaiser calls in the instructions. ( NOTE: Kaiser's radio transmissions are not scripted but go on a lot of the time we're in the Airstream. In addition, his and Adler's direc- tions and missives to Bradley in the truck are not all scripted. )
ADLER: Ya' figger' they're that far along?
RED: Hell, I dunno'and neither do they. They're jus' happy to be out. It's a high speed Sunday drive to them.
ADLER: Sunday drive. I like that. Never heard you use that one before, Red.
RED: Somethin' eatin' at you?
SALLY: It's. perhaps premature, but do you have an auxiliary roadblock plan for when they split up?
ADLER: What makes you so sure they won't stay
RED: You got somethin' to say, spit it out.
SALLY: Their situation is one of accommodation. They won't be together long.
SALLY: Haynes and Pugh are opposites. Haynes is a criminal's criminal armed robbery, mano y mano confrontation. Pugh, on the other hand, has a rap sheet littered with molestation and petty crime. They'll split sheets soon.
ADLER: ( still on attack ) What about the hostages? They gonna' flip a coin to see who gets to keep who?
SALLY: It's happened before. Either way it's a dilemma they'll address soon. That's why we should address it now. She looks to Red. He refuses to return her gaze.
RED: We don't have a dilemma. And neither do they. They'll keep one hostage. and get rid of one, if they haven't already.
SALLY: Okay. which one?
RED: If there's a SNAFU, who's John Q. Public more likely to give a rat's ass about an innocent boy or a goddam bureaucrat. Red wipes the water off the spoon on his shirt and walks to his office in the back. Adler, Bobby Lee and Kaiser chuckle lightly at their boss's snubbing of the female upstart in their midst. Sally's face glows a bright red.
SALLY: We need to talk, Chief Garnett.
RED: Call me Red.
SALLY: ( beat ) Why are you so hell-bent on embarassing me?
RED: I'm hell-bent on one thing. You hang around long enough you'll find that out. Til' then a tough backside and a sense of humor will get you through a lot.
SALLY: I have a fine sense of humor, but the one thing I won't do is be your straight man so you can play hero to a bunch of morons who think you're some kind of hillbilly Sherlock Holmes.
RED: Awful. Arthur Godfrey says it keeps ya' young, but I'm not sure it's worth it.
SALLY: I'd like an answer.
RED: This yer' first time out of an office? She refuses to answer.
RED: Thought so. What'd ya' expect ya' signed on for? Adler, Bobby Lee and Kaiser all watch the discussion, smiles on their faces. Sally abruptly closes the door.
SALLY: You think I'm what? Some dumb schoolgirl who wandered into the boy's locker room? Well you're wrong. I don't mean to boast, but I happen to be one of the two most intelligent people involved in this fiasco.
RED: Didn't ask that. Asked what you expected.
SALLY: I expected to be allowed to do the job assigned to me by the Governor.
RED: I happen to like the Governor, hunt quail together every year. But deep down he and I know that win, lose or draw this is my ship, not his.
SALLY: The Governor as chief executive officer of this state bears ultimate responsibility . Bullshit. Responsibility lies with the one that loses sleep; the one with the most ulcers. This mess turns bloody and it might all it's gonna cost the Governor is a few votes! Me, I'm the one that's.
RED: . Bullshit. Responsibility lies with the one that loses sleep; the one with the most ulcers. This mess turns bloody and it might all it's gonna cost the Governor is a few votes! Me, I'm the one that's.
SALLY: You're the one that what? But Red side-steps.
RED: Tell ya' what. You think I'm makin' a wrong turn you speak up. Might not agree, but I'll listen. As far as stepped on toes and wounded pride, I'll buy everyone a drink when we head for home. Not until. I got more to worry about. That sound fair to you?
SALLY: Well okay then. Sally turns, about to leave.
RED: Well okay then. Sally turns, about to leave.
RED: So who's the other one?
SALLY: Other one?
RED: If yer' one brain, who's the other?
SALLY: Haynes. He was tested in prison.
PHILLIP: ( beat ) Are you gonna' shoot me?
BUTCH: No. Me'n you are friends.
BUTCH: If I was choosin' a runnin' buddy, I'd take you over him any day of the week.
RED: We got a positive I.D.?
LOCAL SHERIFF: Yessir, with only the boy as hostage. But not five minutes ago we found something else.
RED: Least now we know who's in charge.
BUTCH: Whattaya' thinkin' about?
PHILLIP: If I guess you tell me? Phillip nods.
BUTCH: If I guess you tell me? Phillip nods.
BUTCH: You thinkin' about yer mama? Phillip sits still. That was it. Butch brings the car to a stop. He points to the horizon. I hear ya', Phillip, but look around. I can't very well leave you here, can I?
BUTCH: I hear ya', Phillip, but look around. I can't very well leave you here, can I?
BUTCH: Lemme' ask you somethin'. You right or left handed? Phillip meekly holds up his right hand. The car races Then that's the way we'll go. You ever ridden in a time machine before? Phillip shakes his head.
BUTCH: Then that's the way we'll go. You ever ridden in a time machine before? Phillip shakes his head.
BUTCH: Sure you have. Whattaya' think this is?
PHILLIP: A car.
BUTCH: Yer' lookin' at this thing bassackwards. This is a 20th Century time machine. I'm the captain and you're the navigator. Butch points forward through the dash.
BUTCH: Out there. that's the future. Butch taps on the rearview mirror.
BUTCH: Back there. that's the past. If life's moving too slow and you wanna' project yerself into the future you step here on the gas. See? He does so and the Impala surges forward.
BUTCH: And if yer' enjoyin' the moment yer' in, well hell, just step on the brake here and you can slow it down.
BUTCH: This is the present, Phillip. Enjoy it while it lasts. Then he laughs uproariously and steps on the gas.
SUTTLE: It's an intercom speaker system. You can get and give instructions to and from the rear of the vehicle.
BRADLEY: How's it work?
SUTTLE: You push the power button but if you've got the volume turned up. Bradley pushes the power button. The SYSTEM SQUAWKS LOUDLY and then CREAKS TINNILY. Speakers blown.
SUTTLE: . you'll blow the speakers. Sheeeit.
BRADLEY: ( quiet; to Suttle ) This thing's prolly' got a warranty. You oughta' make a list of all the things that are wrong.
ADLER: That oughta' put his pecker in a sling, huh, Red? Sorry, ma'am.
SALLY: ( ignoring Adler ) Shouldn't these be roadblocked as well?
RED: Sooner or later he'll get on a main road. We don't got the manpower to roadblock every farm to market.
ADLER: In a perfect world, Miss Gerber, we'd lock arms and thrash the bush til' he turned up.
SALLY: In a perfect world things like this wouldn't happen in the first place. Adler hears something on his headset, turns to Red.
ADLER: Locals are heading out. Wanna' follow?
RED: Let's sit tight. He'll turn up.
BUTCH: Ok, Phillip, we're gonna do some car shoppin'. You ever play cowboys n' Injuns? See that Ford sedan? Now I want you to sneak on over there like an Injun and take a peek and see if the keys is in it. Phillip hesitates.
BUTCH: Don't have to if you don't wanna. but I'd appreciate it. You bein' the new navigator and all. Phillip thinks it over then opens the door and slips out.
BUTCH: Hey, Phillip, check for a radio, too.
PHILLIP: It's got keys and a radio. I checked.
BUTCH: Good man. Phillip holds his crotch and stamps his feet.
PHILLIP: Can we stop at a fillin' station.
BUTCH: What for?
PHILLIP: Number one.
BUTCH: This here's nature, Phillip. Pee in the Phillip scrambles to the ditch to relieve himself while Butch steps out of the Impala, tosses the keys into the field and walks toward the Ford.
BUTCH: Start, you sonofabitch! The Farmer runs faster, comes closer.
FARMER: Hey, that's my car! Hey!!! Butch floors the gas to clear the flood and the ENGINE finally STARTS. He throws it into reverse and peels out backwards into the road beside the ditch where Phillip continues to relieve himself.
BUTCH: Get in the car, Phillip! The Farmer, only 30 yards or so away, is racing toward them madder than a wet hen. Phillip tries to hurry but the RC continues to run through Phillip! Get in the car! Phillip pulls his underwear up and races to the car. He leaps into the open passenger door at the same moment Butch steps on the gas and the Farmer arrives and grabs onto the door as it The CAR is SCREECHING down the road but the Farmer holds on for dear life and auto. He claws at Phillip, who does his best to fend off flailing hands and fingers. Butch reaches under the seat for and grasps the pistol. Phillip sees what's about to happen and bites the Farmer's hand as hard as he can.
BUTCH: Phillip! Get in the car! Phillip pulls his underwear up and races to the car. He leaps into the open passenger door at the same moment Butch steps on the gas and the Farmer arrives and grabs onto the door as it The CAR is SCREECHING down the road but the Farmer holds on for dear life and auto. He claws at Phillip, who does his best to fend off flailing hands and fingers. Butch reaches under the seat for and grasps the pistol. Phillip sees what's about to happen and bites the Farmer's hand as hard as he can.
FARMER: The Farmer releases his grip on the door and falls backward, summersaulting into the adjacent ditch. Butch places the gun back under the seat.
BUTCH: Goddam, boy, how many RC's did you drink Butch shakes his head and laughs.
PHILLIP: Butch shakes his head and laughs.
BUTCH: One thing's for sure. You got one helluva set of chompers.
BRADLEY: ( to Suttle ) Lighter don't work. Put that on the list.
ADLER: ( into radio ) Highway 16 north. Four miles south of Desdemona. Got it. ( to Red ) Stole a vehicle. ( to Adler ) What kinda' shape's it in?
RED: ( to Adler ) What kinda' shape's it in?
ADLER: What's that?
SALLY: The Ford he stole.
ADLER: Owner told the locals they only drove it to church, but it does have a bad emergency How'd ya' know it was a Ford?
SALLY: He likes Fords. Adler looks at the map.
ADLER: Looks like you was right, Red. He's off the farm to market and onto a spur. Whattaya' wanna' do?
RED: Beef up the I-20 roadblock. Adler gets more news through the headsets.
ADLER: What's that? Red, the locals wanna' know if they're to take a clean shot if they get one? Red stares out the window for what seems like an eternity.
RED: Adler looks quizzically at Red and pulls off the headphones.
RED: Tell 'em what I said.
ADLER: ( into mike ) Uh. no.
ADLER: No, er, yes. No means negative. Same thing. Over. Red sees Sally peering at him over the top of her file. He glances around at the other sets of eyes.
RED: I don't want some half-ass Sergeant York taking pot shots with a deer rifle. Adler puts the headphones back on. Bobby Lee smirks a bit.
SALLY: It's the only thing to do. He's got the child with him. Red gives her a look that says, "Don't defend me".
BOBBY LEE: ( to Sally ) I suppose you figger' he'll jus' give up.
SALLY: Maybe, maybe not.
BOBBY LEE: Well now there's a safe bet.
SALLY: I'll give you a safe bet. The boy's in better hands now than he was.
RED: The third eye Pugh's sportin' on the way to the morgue shouts otherwise. Sally flashes Red a look back. Bobby Lee rises and moves past Red on his way to the toilet.
BOBBY LEE: ( casually ) Then why not shoot to kill.
ADLER: ( to Red ) They've forwarded the stolen vehicle license to the roadblocks. You still wanna' go to the farm?
RED: Yeah. I gotta' hunch.
BUTCH: You got blue eyes don'tcha', Phillip? Never met a blue-eyed Phillip before. Who you named after?
PHILLIP: My daddy.
BUTCH: You and your old man get along all right?
PHILLIP: Toss the ball around, play grab-ass in the yard, that sorta' thing?
BUTCH: Toss the ball around, play grab-ass in the yard, that sorta' thing?
PHILLIP: Why the hell not?
BUTCH: Why the hell not?
PHILLIP: He ain't around, really.
BUTCH: Well he is or he ain't. When's the last time you saw him? Phillip shrugs.
BUTCH: Me'n you got a lot in common, Phillip. The both of us got blue eyes, we both like RC Cola and neither one of us has an old man worth a damn.
PHILLIP: ( a bit defensive ) My Mama says he'll prolly' come back. Prolly' when I'm ten or so.
BUTCH: Well. she's lyin' to ya' pure and simple. He ain't never comin' back. Disappointment registers on the boy's face.
BUTCH: Guys like us, Phillip, we gotta' be on our own. Seek foolish destiny, that sorta' thing.
BOY: What can I do ya' for?
BUTCH: ( to Phillip ) Tell him your name.
PHILLIP: Fill-er-up it is. The attendant starts to pump the gas.
BOY: Fill-er-up it is. The attendant starts to pump the gas.
BUTCH: See there! All you gotta' do is say your name and people are waiting on you hand and foot. Like a goddam king or somethin'. Phillip can't help but smile at the notion.
BRADLEY: You responsible for engine maintenance on this thing?
SUTTLE: Uh, yeah. I'm the full time driver.
SUTTLE: What? Why?
BRADLEY: You notice how it keeps wanting to slip a bit goin' into second. Feels to me like somebody's been a little heavy-footed with the clutch. I'd take care of that if I was you. PAN TO: an ambulance door opens and the Farmer, strapped in, is rolled toward it as his wife, sobbing, attends to him. Several local police scour the surrounding field, walking four feet apart, looking for what they hope they won't find. Red leans on the trunk of the Impala, chews and spits on the ground. He sniffs the air. Unsavory. Adler strides up from the field.
ADLER: No bodies this time, thank Gawd.
RED: You got the keys to this thing?
ADLER: Uh. naw.
RED: Get me a crowbar. You might wanna' wait in the boat.
SALLY: No thank you.
RED: THEIR POV - OPEN TRUNK In it lies the crumpled, bent, bloody remains of Larry, the prison employee, the original hostage.
RED: . there's our bureaucrat.
RED: ( to no one in particular ) It's sure nice to know the boy's in good
RED: Gallows humor, Sally. Without it we'd all be heavin'.
BUTCH: You ready to get out of those skivvies and into some britches? Phillip nods.
BUTCH: Well all right then. But first we gotta' come up with some A.K.A.'s, fake identities, ya' know. Names to call each other when we're around other folks. Go ahead and think one up. Whatever name you want. Phillip is amused by the sport of it all.
PHILLIP: Any name I want?
LUCY: Well, hello there and welcome to Friendly's. Looks like the little fella' needs some pants.
BUTCH: As a matter of fact. Shoes and new skivvies, too. He'll tell you his size. Go with the lady, Buzz. Phillip, still in somewhat of a daze, doesn't recognize his own "name".
BUTCH: Phillip snaps to, cracks a smile at Butch and follows the lady to the children's section of the store.
LUCY: Buzz, what a cute name. Like a bee.
BUTCH: walks past the cash register, gives the clerk behind the desk a wink and proceeds to an aisle which features hardware, rope, tape, nails, etc. He stoops and grabs a shank. . with his hands he grips the rope tight and jerks it taut.
CHILDREN'S AISLE: Lucy is holding jeans up to Phillip's waist.
LUCY: It'd be easier if I knew your size, but we'll get it right. Phillip's eye catches something.
BUTCH: takes a roll of electrician's tape. He tears off a strip, attaches it to the back or his hand and tugs. It holds tight.
LUCY: kneeling, looking for sizes, selects a pair and turns to find Phillip gone. She spins around and smiles when she sees.
PHILLIP: wearing the Casper mask.
LUCY: Why look. It's a friendly ghost. Say 'Boo.'
PHILLIP: ( unconvincingly )
LUCY: Not very scary but you'll have a whole year to work on it if your Daddy lets you have it. Good price, too. What'd you go as this year?
PHILLIP: A bandit.
TERRANCE: ( realizing his find ) Aw. shit.
BUTCH: Whattaya' think?
PAULA: Look good. He adds them to the pile of stuff.
PAULA: Will that be all for you today? Butch nods and hands over the goods.
BUTCH: You folks are about the grinninest bunch I ever seen. Paula laughs, then drops her grin, looks behind her to see Mr. Willits is watching, and whispers.
PAULA: Old Man Willits holds a contest ever' month. The friendliest clerk gets a $20 bonus. There's a ballot box at the front.
BEHIND GLASS: Mr. Willits adjusts his black and white TV and settles on a local news broadcast.
CHECKOUT COUNTER: Paula checks Butch's items as Lucy and Phillip emerge from an aisle and drop a pair of jeans and sneakers onto the counter.
LUCY: Here's the clothes, but Buzz has his heart set on a Halloween costume for next year. It is half off.
MR. WILLITS: pays more attention to Butch as the newscast continues.
BUTCH: ( to Phillip ) We'll get it next time. Go get in the car, son.
TERRANCE: ( into radio ) Okay, Pete, I'm all set down here. You?
ANOTHER COP: PETE, 40, probably Terrance's uncle, slides his black and white to the opposite end of the street and puts it in park.
PETE: ( into radio ) Copasetic. Let's just keep him tied up til' the state boys get here.
ADLER: They've got him penned down in Noodle, north of Abilene.
PHILLIP: walks toward the front door but stops short when he sees, once again, the Halloween display.
BUTCH: pays Paula, then stuffs a $20 in her blouse.
BUTCH: You are truly the friendliest clerk I ever met.
PAULA: ( an afterthought ) Thank you for shopping Friendly's!
TRUCK OWNER: Dammit, Pete!!!
HIS POV: The alley is a dead end.
LUCY: I knew something was wrong from the get-go.
PAULA: Look, he left his little boy.
LUCY: And look, the little rascal has. he's no better than.
PAULA: He's got that Casper costume. He stole it!
LUCY: He's got that Casper costume. He stole it!
TERRANCE: can't believe his eyes.
PHILLIP: antsy as hell, stuck, wondering how this whole thing is going to play out. He's suddenly aware of the peering eyes behind him. Lucy bangs on the glass.
LUCY: ( yells ) Buzz! You little shit. Shoplifting is a crime!
BUTCH: checks his mirror, looks ahead, spots Phillip and blasts straight for the front door of the store. He SKIDS to a halt and stares right at Phillip.
BUTCH: Up to you, Buzz.
PHILLIP: He's frozen for a second, his knees knocking, teeth chattering, the works. Lucy appears behind him and the glass door.
LUCY: ( to Phillip ) You'll never get away with this, little
PAULA: Say what you want. I'm keepin' the twenty.
FRANK: Hurry up. Someone's comin'.
ON HORIZON: Sure enough, a hail of dust signals the approach of a vehicle a mile or so away. Billy crawls into the ditch next to Frank. We see what he's dragged from the field a scarecrow with a floppy hat and red bandana.
FRANK: Stick it in the road. Hurry up. Billy does so, propping the scarecrow into a sitting position with a forked stick. Then he races back to the ditch and slides in next to Frank to divide the eggs.
FRANK: We got seven eggs. I get four to throw and you get three. since it was my idea. Billy nods.
FRANK: Here they come. Aim for windows and get ready to run. The car crests the hill, followed by another, and another and a final one, all Highway Patrol, all with their lights on and
FRANK: Oh shit! The cars don't even slow at the sight of the scarecrow, blast- ing right through it, sending hay, hat, limbs and all, flying. The scarecrow, or what's left of it, lands in a ditch next to the boys. In unison they breathe a sigh of relief, look at each other, drop the eggs and hightail it for home.
BUTCH: Here, take them nasty skivvies off and put on yer' jeans. He spots Phillip's not so successful effort to hide the costume box.
BUTCH: Whatya' got there?
PHILLIP: A ghost suit.
BUTCH: From the store? You kyped it? Phillip nods, expecting the worst.
BUTCH: Well, hell, Phillip, put it on.
PHILLIP: You ain't mad?
BUTCH: Let's unnerstan' each other here.
BUTCH: What's wrong?
PHILLIP: Butch notices Phillip's hands covering his crotch.
BUTCH: What? You don't wanna' get undressed, is that it? Phillip shrugs.
BUTCH: You embarrassed caus' I might see yer' It's. puny.
PHILLIP: It's. puny.
BUTCH: It's puny.
PHILLIP: It's puny.
BUTCH: Well hell, lemme' see. Phillip still hesitates.
BUTCH: Go on. I'll shoot ya' straight. Phillip gingerly pulls off his underwear. Butch smiles a broad grin.
BUTCH: Hell no, Phillip, it's good size for a boy yer' age! Phillip, remasculated, smiles and starts to put on the Here they come.
BUTCH: Here they come.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Bobby Lee who sits by himself, whittling away at a stick and leering at her. Adler is at the map, holding the shortwave mike and wearing the earphones. Behind him, Red stares out the window.
ADLER: Haynes bought tape, rope, and some clothes for the boy. Red comes to and turns to Adler. Sally smiles almost to her- self. She was right Haynes is looking after the boy. Everyone knows it, but no one says anything.
ADLER: One puzzler though. They say the boy could have gotten away but didn't.
SALLY: Probably scared to death.
ADLER: That's not all. The kid stole a Halloween outfit.
RED: Holy Jeezus, they're a team.
ADLER: With the pit stop in Noodle looks like he's headed for the Panhandle.
SALLY: ( to Red ) There's more roads than people in the
ADLER: There's more roads than people in the How's that happen?
SALLY: How's that happen?
KAISER: ( over his shoulder ) Poor counties. They tend to half finish roads then start on another one.
ADLER: But if anybody knows them backroads it's Sally lifts her head, watches Red reenter the room, then stares out the window.
SALLY: Okay, so. I'm Robert Haynes. Called Butch by everyone. I was born in Amarillo, but grew up in the French Quarter of New Orleans.
ADLER: ( sotto voce ) What's she doin', Red?
SALLY: I killed a man when I was eight. Silence. Nobody seems willing to play along. Red turns from the window to Sally.
RED: How'd ya' kill him?
SALLY: Shot him with a pistol. There was always one around the dance hall. That's what they called it but it was a whorehouse. We lived there. Red moves away from the discussion and stands at the front of the Airstream, staring out the front window.
ADLER: What'd the authorities do?
SALLY: The victim was wanted by the locals so the whole thing got shoved under the carpet Cajun-style.
ADLER: They didn't even stick him in juvy?
SALLY: Put me in school. Three years behind but I catch up.
KAISER: Sounds like things are goin' okay' now?
SALLY: They were. For awhile. When I'm twelve mom dies.
ADLER: What happened?
SALLY: Delilah Jane Haynes hung herself in the bathroom of the brothel. Could have saved herself the trouble. Post-mortem check uncovered last stage syphilis.
KAISER: Where's yer' father? Red's face tells us he's listening.
SALLY: Nobody knows where he is now. Ditched when I was six. He was a small-time felon. Popped up again after Mom died he'd just been paroled. Moved us back to Amarillo. A year later I'm in trouble again.
ADLER: Yeah? Kill somebody else?
SALLY: Took a joyride in a Ford coupe that I just couldn't resist.
KAISER: Hell, that's no big deal.
SALLY: Judge gave me four years in Gatesville, toughest juvy farm in Texas.
ADLER: That's where the son-of-a-bitch learned to be a criminal. Seen that before, ain't we, Red? Red doesn't answer. He seems in a faraway place.
BOBBY LEE: ( smart ass ) So, Butch, why don't you tell us where yer' goin', save us the trouble o' huntin' you down?
SALLY: Where I'm going isn't as important as 'Why am I going there?'
BOBBY LEE: ( tired of the game ) Shit. 'Caus' I'm runnin' and they're chasin' and I'd jus' as soon go north as south as east as west. It's a fun lil' parlor game, lady, but right now Butch Haynes don't have the slightest idea where he's headed!
BUTCH: An inch is 24 miles. Hold yer' pointin' finger along the line of the road. You got three lines on your finger, don'tcha'? Each one's an inch. So how many inches to Childress? Phillip holds one finger to the map, then another.
PHILLIP: One, two. six.
BUTCH: Yer' a helluva' navigator, Phillip. A lot smarter than Jerry. But I guess that's not sayin' a lot. Something catches Phillip's eye.
PHILLIP: Lookie there!
BUTCH: ( excited, too ) Seen one of them in a magazine. It's called a motor home. They're new. Kinda' like a house on wheels.
SALLY: staring out the window. She looks at the passing Ford.
HER POV: Butch is hard to make out, but there's no mistaking the Casper outfit Phillip wears with pride.
SALLY: You said the boy stole a Halloween costume. What character?
ADLER: I believe it was Casper. Casper the friendly ghost.
SALLY: That was them. They just passed us.
RED: Turn this thing around!
ADLER: ( into mike ) Turn it around! That was them!
SUTTLE: It's. it's not safe to go over 65 with this much load!
BOBBY LEE: ( to Adler ) Tell him to pull up next to 'em!
NEW ANGLE: Phillip turns around backward in the seat to watch.
PHILLIP: They're goin' fast!
BUTCH: Phillip, you get in the back seat and lie down on the floor.
PHILLIP: Hell, I don't know. 'Caus' I said so!
BUTCH: Hell, I don't know. 'Caus' I said so!
SUTTLE: Yer burnin' up the engine! But Bradley pays no heed.
RED: Holster that firearm and get yer ass back inside! Bobby Lee thinks it over, shakes his head in disgust and holsters his piece.
BUTCH: Hold on, Phillip!
SUTTLE: 111J EXT. ROAD - DAY 111J
HER POV: The truck, 100 or so yards away, blasting through the field toward the horizon.
SALLY: NEW ANGLE Red spots the same but before he can cuss.
NEW ANGLE: Red spots the same but before he can cuss.
SUTTLE: Ahhhh!! They're gone!!!
ADLER: Uh. Red?
RED: They wanna know if the boy looked He was laughing and waving.
ADLER: They wanna know if the boy looked He was laughing and waving.
SALLY: He was laughing and waving.
RED: Don't tell 'em that.
AIDE: They say the boy looked A-okay. Governor Connally nods, sighs, and reaches hand across the desk and touches Gladys's shoulder.
GOVERNOR: He'll be fine, Mrs. Perry. This whole nightmare will be over and done with very soon and you'll be home with your boy. I Gladys, distraught, nods. Governor Connally discreetly nods to a photographer in the group while keeping his hand on Gladys's shoulder. A CAMERA'S FLASH causes everyone to blink in reaction. The Governor shakes it off and continues.
GOVERNOR: I want you to know that I personally okayed the use of a brand-new high-tech mobile home from which to conduct the manhunt. It's an amazingly futuristic piece of law enforcement equipment. Another FLASH.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Butch sits on the hood of the Ford, which is stopped on an asphalt road which, a few feet farther, turns into dirt and a few feet farther a dirt clod field.
BUTCH: Started this road 20 years ago and it still ain't finished. Appears to me we got a decision to make. Phillip, aka Casper, exits the car and, imitating Butch, leans against the car.
BUTCH: It's up to you, Phillip. We can backtrack to the highway or we can try it on foot.
PHILLIP: Where we goin'? Butch reaches in his back pocket and pulls out a folded postcard. He hands it over to Phillip.
BUTCH: It's Alaska, Phillip. Last of the wild It's pretty.
PHILLIP: It's pretty.
BUTCH: It's beautiful!
PHILLIP: You been there?
BUTCH: Naw. Just got the one postcard. But anyhoo, back to our present dilemma. You feel like a hike?
PHILLIP: How far?
BUTCH: Can't be more'n, oh, say, fifteen hundred Phillip seems a tad apprehensive about the prospect.
BUTCH: Yer' prolly' right. Go give our supplies a check. Phillip returns to the car and emerges with the paper bag once full of soda, candy and jerky. Butch surveys the countryside.
BUTCH: How's it look?
PHILLIP: A soda. some gum. half a Moon Pie.
BUTCH: Rations for one at best. Come on. Butch strides straight into the rocky field. Phillip lingers a moment, then sticks the half eaten moon pie in his mouth and follows, hurrying to catch up.
BRADLEY: Now yer sure that gooseneck had a safety Suttle turns and glares.
SUTTLE: NEW ANGLE Red walks slowly toward the slumping Airstream. A PHONE RINGS from inside, then STOPS. Adler sticks his head out of the door and calls to Red.
NEW ANGLE: Red walks slowly toward the slumping Airstream. A PHONE RINGS from inside, then STOPS. Adler sticks his head out of the door and calls to Red.
ADLER: Governor's hot line, Red. Governor insists that he have the mobile home back for the parade tomorrow. Red just stares at Adler, then sighs, removes his hat and scratches his head.
RED: ( isn't it obvious? ) Tell 'em to come and get it.
PHILLIP: Where we goin'?
BUTCH: We're goin' trick r' treatin', Phillip. Phillip stops dead in his tracks. Butch, sensing that the boy is no longer following, stops, spins and faces Phillip.
BUTCH: We ain't allowed to trick r' treat.
PHILLIP: We ain't allowed to trick r' treat.
BUTCH: My mama don't allow it.
PHILLIP: My mama don't allow it.
BUTCH: Trick r' treatin'? Why not?
PHILLIP: Against our religion.
BUTCH: Against yer' religion. What kind of foolishness is that?
PHILLIP: Jehovah Witness. Butch picks up a dirt clod and hurls it as far as he can. He sighs and turns to Phillip.
BUTCH: Now, I'm askin' you, Phillip. I ain't askin' yer' mother and I ain't askin' Jehovah. Do you wanna' go trick r' treatin' or not?
BUTCH: Ok, Phillip, all ya' gotta' do is knock on the door and when they open it you say 'trick or treat.' Got it?
BUTCH: Now wait til' they come. A FARM WIFE, 65 or so, like something from a Grant Wood, only smiling, opens the door and looks out on the pair through the screen door.
BUTCH: ( whispers ) Now, Phillip.
PHILLIP: Trick r' treat.
BUTCH: ( whispers ) Say it again, Phillip.
PHILLIP: Trick r' treat, ma'am.
WOMAN: Well, seein' that Halloween was yesterday, I guess you'll have to trick me. You missed the caramel popcorn balls I made up special. Butch smiles, pulls up his shirt and exposes the revolver stuck in his pants.
WOMAN: ( tune changed ) Wait right here.
PHILLIP: 125 EXT. YARD - DAY ( SECONDS LATER ) 125
BUTCH: Never underestimate the kindness of the common man, Phillip. Butch reaches up and grabs the phone line, yanks it loose and tosses it aside.
ADLER: ( into mike ) Spur 208 northbound. And 83 at Aspermont coming and going. ( to Red ) That it?
RED: Adler moves to set down the mike and topples a cup of coffee. It spills on the floor. Suttle grabs a towel to wipe it up but realizing the futility of keeping the Airstream clean, he simply throws it aside.
BUTCH: You sure there's no meat in there? Spam maybe, Vienna sausages, anything like that?
PHILLIP: Well, I bet you can make us some mustard sandwiches, can't ya'?
BUTCH: Well, I bet you can make us some mustard sandwiches, can't ya'?
PHILLIP: Well go to it.
BUTCH: Well go to it.
PHILLIP: How many?
BUTCH: Many as you want.
BUTCH: Be right back. Don't be stingy with that mustard now.
BUTCH: walks ahead to the crest of the hill, the tallest hill in the county. He takes in the 360 degree view. His eyes settle LINE OF CARS IDLING as they wait their turn to pass a roadblock at the bottom of the hill.
PHILLIP: spreading even more mustard. Every so often he sneaks a peek back at the picnicing family.
EMERGENCY BRAKE: slips a little, then gives all at once.
FORD: starts to roll backwards.
PHILLIP: Whooaaa! Butch! Butch!!!
BUTCH: turns and sees the Ford rolling backwards, picking up steam back down the hill.
BUTCH: Step on the brake! Put your foot on the brake! The middle one!!
PHILLIP: panicked, slides over and grabs the wheel. Of course, he is too short to press on the brake and when he bends down.
FORD: swerves off the road and onto the shoulder.
FAMILY: headed by BOB, 35, their Ward Cleaverish father, looks up to barrelling backwards toward them, swerving to and fro and followed by Butch shouting instructions.
FORD: barrelling backwards toward them, swerving to and fro and followed by Butch shouting instructions.
BOB: makes a beeline for the station wagon.
BOB'S WIFE: Forget the car, Bob!
BOB: Are you crazy. It's only got a 1000 miles on it!
PHILLIP: gains control of the wheel and steers the rapidly reversing Ford around the Wagon.
FORD: continues backwards to the bottom of the hill, but it has enough steam built up to head backwards up the other incline of the previous hill.
BUTCH: comes to a heaving halt next to Bob, who is near heart attack
BUTCH: Bad brakes.
BOB: That was close.
BOB: Bob Fielder.
BUTCH: Edgar Poe.
PHILLIP: breathes a sigh of relief as the Ford loses momentum and comes to a stop. But then, of course, .
FORD: like any car on a roller coaster, starts to move downhill, slowly at first, but then picking up speed.
BOB: Had me scared silly. I've only had her two months.
BUTCH: She's a beaut, all right. Say, Bob, what with my brake problem and all, I sure would appreciate a lift. Me'n my boy live about five miles up the road here. I can pick up the car tomorrow.
FORD: coming straight for them, gaining speed, with Casper the friendly ghost behind the wheel.
BUTCH: The brake, Phillip! Step on the brake!
PHILLIP: totally freaked, jumps down on the floorboard and pushes with both hands on the brake. SQUEALING TIRES bring.
FORD: to a SKIDDING halt inches from Butch's kneecaps.
BUTCH: Helluva job, Phillip! Never had a doubt.
BOB: crawls down from the luggage rack on top of his wagon and smiles a sigh of relief.
BOB: Sorry for the inconvenience, Edgar. The kids like the back down like that so they can play.
BUTCH: No trouble at all, Bob.
BOB: Why the roadblock, Officer?
OFFICER: Escaped convict, sir. Just a precaution.
RED: 134 EXT. AIRSTREAM - DAY 134
ADLER: ( to Red ) They've got two Highway Patrol cars they can give to us now.
RED: Tell 'em stand by. We got the best seat in the house right here. Have the southern roadblocks call in the dogs and move north. Check every road, every farm from San Angelo to Sweetwater.
ADLER: He knows he's hemmed in. I predict we'll have him singing a different tune by The red station wagon creeps along the highway to the whistled strains of "Old MacDonald had a Farm."
BOB'S SON: You're spilling! You're spilling! Bob and his Wife immediately turn around.
WIFE: Patsy! Look at what you're doing?!
BOB: Ahhh noooo! Bob's wife grabs Patsy by the arm and shakes her. Butch con- tinues to whistle softly, almost eerily, but he's watching Look at what you did! It's all over the seat of your father's new car! The little girl starts to cry while Bob grabs at tissues feverishly and hands them to his Wife who, leaning over the seat is wiping hard at the stain. She grabs her daughter's arm and shakes her, staring into her face. Butch, directly behind the little girl, watches closely.
BOB'S WIFE: Look at what you did! It's all over the seat of your father's new car! The little girl starts to cry while Bob grabs at tissues feverishly and hands them to his Wife who, leaning over the seat is wiping hard at the stain. She grabs her daughter's arm and shakes her, staring into her face. Butch, directly behind the little girl, watches closely.
BOB'S WIFE: What is wrong with you?! I told you twice not to jump up and down! Didn't I!! Patsy bawls harder than ever. Bob's Wife finishes wiping and reseats herself in the front seat.
BOB'S WIFE: ( to herself ) Damn that kid!
BOB: It's okay, sweetie. Daddy's not mad.
BOB'S WIFE: So much for the new car smell. The little girl muffles her tears. Butch smiles sincerely then looks to the passing landscape.
BUTCH: This will do fine right here, Bob. But I do have one more favor to ask.
BUTCH: Just a loaner, Bob. Not to worry. You'll get her back. Bob reluctantly shakes Butch's hand in an attempt to impress upon Butch his most important concern of all.
BOB: Please, it's new. Hold it under 45. at least for the next 500 miles.
BUTCH: You know I will, Bob. Butch gives a snappy salute and is off to the wagon.
BUTCH: Wave, Phillip. Phillip does so. Bob's kids wave back. Phillip starts to They look funny.
PHILLIP: They look funny.
BUTCH: Maybe, but Bob did the right thing. What if he'd put up a fight? I mighta' had to shoot him, and where would that family be then? Naw, Bob's a fine family man and that's about the best thing a fella' can hope to be. Butch floors the wagon and the CAR SCREECHES rubber on the cringes as he watches his pride and joy rocket toward the The Highway Patrol continues to monitor cars one by one. One of the Officers sees something and nudges his partner to look FAMILY BOB cresting the hill carrying their hats in their hands along with their luggage and coolers.
BOB: cringes as he watches his pride and joy rocket toward the 140 EXT. ROADBLOCK - DAY ( LATER ) 140 The Highway Patrol continues to monitor cars one by one. One of the Officers sees something and nudges his partner to look FAMILY BOB cresting the hill carrying their hats in their hands along with their luggage and coolers.
FAMILY BOB: cresting the hill carrying their hats in their hands along with their luggage and coolers.
ADLER: He got through! At Aspermont.
BRADLEY: Coerced a motorist. Red sighs.
ADLER: Coerced a motorist. Red sighs.
RED: Well goddam, shout at Amarillo. Tell 'em we got a notion he's headed their way. Adler gets right to it.
RED: ( almost to himself ) Truth is I wish he'd cross the border so we could turn this over to the feds.
RED: I got work to do back home. Red rises and stretches, walks to the open door and stares out at the late afternoon light.
RED: I'm hungry. This thing got any food?
SUTTLE: Well, uh. Adler jumps up and goes to the frig.
ADLER: Got T-bones in the frig, Red!
SUTTLE: Uh, uh, those were stocked for the Governor. I don't think that he would approve of. Adler finds a plastic bag in the freezer and inspects it.
ADLER: And look, Red! Tater Tots! Those kind you like!
RED: That so?
BUTCH: Can't find a Coonass Waltz to save my ass. Hey, Phillip, that stuff you told me 'bout not trick r' treatin' causa' Jehovah. Was you pullin' my leg?
PHILLIP: ( CONTINUED )
BUTCH: What else ain't you suppose' to do?
PHILLIP: We don't get Christmas.
BUTCH: Yer' shittin' me?
PHILLIP: Nawsir. No birthdays, nor parties, neither.
BUTCH: You ain't never been to a carnival neither, have ya'?
PHILLIP: Not even one?
BUTCH: Not even one?
PHILLIP: Not even one.
BUTCH: Cotton candy?
PHILLIP: Seen that once. It's red.
BUTCH: Never ate none though.
PHILLIP: Never ate none though.
BUTCH: Roller coasters?
BUTCH: Seen pictures.
BUTCH: You know, Phillip, you have a goddammed red, white and blue American right to eat cotton candy and ride roller coasters.
PHILLIP: I do?
PHILLIP: ( quiet as a mouse ) Thankyew, Father, for yer' 'boundiful' nature and goodness.
BUTCH: Amen. Now dig in, Buzz. Call him that caus' he eats like a buzzard. If it's dead he'll swoop and chow.
BUTCH: You Dottie?
WAITRESS: Eileen. Dottie died. Her son runs the place but. he ain't never here.
BUTCH: EILEEN ( WAITRESS )
EILEEN: If you need me, I'll be right over here. She slowly sashays away to behind the counter. Butch watches her every step. Phillip chews and watches Butch's eyes. Butch turns his head and catches Phillip watching him.
BUTCH: Eat yer' food.
BOBBY LEE: sitting outside, rises and slides into the Airstream while
BOBBY LEE: Think yer' pretty smart now don'tcha'? She doesn't back down, instead looking him straight in the Excuse me?
SALLY: Excuse me?
BOBBY LEE: Well yer' not smart but you are pretty. Sally stares right at Bobby Lee then moves for the door. He shifts his position and blocks her.
SALLY: Excuse me. Bobby Lee smiles a crooked-tooth grin, refusing to move.
BOBBY LEE: Work and pleasure should naturally go together don't you think? Take me, I enjoy my work.
SALLY: I could give a shit.
BOBBY LEE: You got a mouth, don't ya?
SALLY: ( relieved ) Uh.. rare.
RED: A woman after my own heart. She takes this opportunity to slide between Red and Bobby Lee on her way into the main room. As she goes.
RED: I'll just wipe its ass, herd it through and you can cut off a hunk. How'd that be?
SALLY: Maybe medium-rare. Bobby Lee and Red are left standing face to face.
RED: I don't give a damn who you work for. You're here for one reason and one reason only.
BOBBY LEE: Anything else, Chief?
RED: Yeah. Yer' in my office. The hot line PHONE RINGS. Bobby Lee flinches first and moves back into the main room. Red follows.
ADLER: That's the Governor's line, Red! Red calmly walks past Sally who smiles a "thanks". He gives her a one finger to the hat salute, walks to the phone, reaches down and yanks out the cord. The RINGING STOPS.
RED: Nuthin' as impolite as callin' at the dinner hour.
AT COUNTER: Butch leans over and whispers something sexy into Eileen's ear. She giggles and licks her lips. Butch feels eyes on his back and looks at Phillip, who immediately turns away from them. When Butch returns his attention to Eileen she's moved a few feet away and is refilling ketchup bottles.
BUTCH: Buzz, go ahead and chew on mine if you want.
PHILLIP: No thankyew. Eileen slides back down toward Butch. She makes refilling condiment bottles the sexiest pasttime since the hula hoop.
EILEEN: Very polite.
BUTCH: I try hard but, ya' know, since his mama Butch, a tad annoyed, turns to Phillip and gives him a look. Once again, when he turns back, Eileen has moved. She's flirting with Butch, moving, bending, wiping her hands on her hips. His eyes are focused on her every squirm.
PHILLIP: My mama's not dead!
BUTCH: ( over his shoulder ) Okay now, Buzz, you go on out in the parking lot and chunk some rocks or something.
EILEEN: So is she dead or not?
BUTCH: ( covering badly ) Well his biological mother is alive. Gave him up for adoption to me and my wife. My dead wife, that is. She is, was Phil, er Buzz's stepmother, so she's his mom, was his mom, stepmom, but. she's dead.
EILEEN: I'm so sorry. But she's not. In fact it seems to have turned her on even She puts her hand behind Butch's neck and slowly pulls him close for gentle kiss.
EILEEN: Nosy little feller'.
BUTCH: ( a last try ) I keep a cot in the back.
EILEEN: ( a last try ) I keep a cot in the back.
LATER ): Nothing but stars swimming in black West Texas crude.
PHILLIP: stands right next to the SPUTTERING NEON SIGN, staring straight up, the neon light splashing his face in a grotesque pink light.
BUTCH: Get in the car.
PHILLIP: You mad at me?
BUTCH: ( curt )
PHILLIP: You kissed her, huh?
BUTCH: ( much regret ) Jus' barely.
PHILLIP: Caus' it feels good. Ain't you ever seen your mama kiss a man?
BUTCH: Caus' it feels good. Ain't you ever seen your mama kiss a man?
PHILLIP: ( beat ) You kissed her backside, huh?
BUTCH: It's, well, uh, it's kinda' hard to explain. I know how it musta' looked. Hell, I don't know how it looked.. As Butch's voice trails off silence overtakes the car. After a few seconds Butch seems happy not to have to answer any more questions. Phillip fidgits with the door handle. Several more seconds pass, then.
PHILLIP: Do you love her?
BUTCH: The lady that cooked the hamburgers? Butch ponders this, then a grin slides across his face.
PHILLIP: The lady that cooked the hamburgers? Butch ponders this, then a grin slides across his face.
BUTCH: Yeah, Phillip, I love her. Kissed her butt didn't I? And they both start to laugh.
BUTCH: Things go our way we'll be in Alaska in four or five days. Get the jump on winter. Phillip looks a little sad.
BUTCH: What's wrong?
PHILLIP: I wanna' go home.
BUTCH: If you wanted to go home so bad, why didn't you stay at that store today?
PHILLIP: Caus' why?
BUTCH: Caus' why?
PHILLIP: 'Caus' I stole. They'd put me in jail. Prolly' go to hell. Butch chuckles at the notion.
BUTCH: Same difference. We'll get you home soon. I swear, okay?
PHILLIP: Yeah, Phillip?
BUTCH: Yeah, Phillip?
PHILLIP: I can drive.
BUTCH: Done proved that ain'tcha'? There's lots and lots of stuff you can do, Phillip. Reach in that glovebox there. See if Bob's got a notepad or something. Phillip extracts a small ringed memo pad.
BUTCH: Good old Bob. Can you write?
PHILLIP: I can print.
BUTCH: Good enough. Now I want you to make a list of everything you ever wanted to do but wasn't allowed to. Okay?
PHILLIP: Like what?
BUTCH: Like. cotton candy.
PHILLIP: Cotton candy?
BUTCH: Hell I don't know. It's yer' list. Butch settles in for a catnap. Just as his eyes close.
PHILLIP: 157 EXT. FIELD - NIGHT 157
BUTCH: 157 EXT. FIELD - NIGHT 157
RED: Figger to give 'em another hour of shuteye, then grab the patrol cars and head for the Panhandle.
SALLY: Bring back any memories?
RED: Too many. Red turns to her. They both know he's divulged something.
RED: They got a file on me, too?
SALLY: It's the 60's, Red. They've got a file on everybody.
RED: Just caus' it's written down don't make it true.
SALLY: You worked as County Sheriff in Amarillo and Austin before you became a Ranger. Right so far? Oh, and it says your name's Cecil.
RED: Yeah, well, that's definitely the worst of it. Red uncorks his thermos and refills Sally's mug. She takes a sip and almost chokes on it.
SALLY: Strong. but good. So Cecil. Red gives her a strong look.
SALLY: Red. What do you do when you're not at The file don't tell ya' that, too?
RED: The file don't tell ya' that, too?
SALLY: I got a ranch I never visit, nieces I hardly know, a tackle box full of dry lures and a dog that figures he's the owner and I'm the pet. Could have a point, he's there more.
RED: I got a ranch I never visit, nieces I hardly know, a tackle box full of dry lures and a dog that figures he's the owner and I'm the pet. Could have a point, he's there more.
SALLY: A confirmed bachelor. Any regrets?
RED: Liked to have wet those lures. Maybe a new dog. How'd you get into. whatever the hell it is you do?
SALLY: My father's defense lawyer.
RED: That explains your mouth. Sally smiles.
SALLY: Instead of Home Ec, I studied Criminology. When I graduated, my father, with the Governor's help, they, he and my dad. I created a position for myself with the prison system.
RED: What's yer' husband think about all Don't own one.
SALLY: Don't own one.
RED: Yer' not careful you'll wind up jus' like me. Old, tired, with nobody around to love ya'.
SALLY: It's crazy ain't it?
RED: It's crazy ain't it?
SALLY: What's that?
RED: Goin' without sleep chasin' after a three time loser and Casper the Friendly Sleep? That's what retirement's for.
SALLY: Sleep? That's what retirement's for.
RED: Bite your tongue.
SALLY: You wanna' know what's really crazy? Hayne's juvenile court record lists you as Amicus Curiae. Silence save the CRICKETS.
SALLY: Friend of the court. Evidence given by a non-party with the intention of swaying the judge one way or the other. They're usually in written form, but there's no copy attached. Red doesn't flinch.
SALLY: Okay, then at least tell me why Haynes got four years for a joyride? What about probation? The boy had a home, a father.
RED: What's your file say about him?
SALLY: That he was a petty thief who did a little time, got out and stayed pretty clean.
RED: There are murderers I'd trust with my mother and petty thieves I wouldn't turn my back on. Your precious files are wrong.
SALLY: I'm listening.
RED: Hayne's old man was a career criminal with a soft spot for whores. One way or the other he beat the hell outta' every person he ever crossed, screwed or fathered. Judge sends junior home with the old man and you can bet your last dollar that within a year he'll have a rap sheet as long as yer arm. I know kids who did Gatesville, made it through, shaped up. Hell, one's even a Sally realizes she's opened an old wound.
SALLY: Still, I don't understand from the file and second guessin'. Ya get one shot and ya call 'em like you see 'em.
RED: This job ain't about files and books and second guessin'. Ya get one shot and ya call 'em like you see 'em.
SALLY: I'm a bit confused.
RED: In Texas the bottom line is who ya' know and what they owe ya. That's how I do my job and how you got yours.
SALLY: ( a bit ticked ) What are you trying to say?
RED: I bought the judge a T-bone and told him to send the boy up. Told him it was the right thing to do. He went along right down the line.
BUTCH: Me n' the boy was just catchin' some shut-eye in yer' field.
MACK: Oh, it ain't mine. I just works it for Mr. Andrews. Where ya'll from?
BUTCH: Drove from Texarkana yesterday.
MACK: Quite a haul.
BUTCH: Said a mouthful there.
MACK: Well, ain't no sense in ya'll sleepin' in the car. Not when I got a fold out couch sittin' empty.
BUTCH: Wouldn't want to put you out. 'Sides we need to get back on the road.
MACK: No trouble t'all. Wake you up first light, fill yer' belly and send you on yer' way.
SAUNDERS: We didn't pass it did we? Saunders spots the RV on the horizon.
MONTGOMERY: There it is.
MONTGOMERY: Good Gawd Almighty. Governor ain't gonna' like this.
SAUNDERS: Where are they?!
SUTTLE: Uh, uh, they're gone.
SAUNDERS: How long?!
SUTTLE: I don't know, uh, four, five hours. Saunders, dejected, starts to move some of the trash from the couch. He sits down and moans.
SAUNDERS: Well, goddammit, did he say anything?
SUTTLE: ( CONTINUED )
SAUNDERS: Well, uh, Chief Garnett wanted me to tell you that the vehicle gets his seal of Saunders' face begins to turn red.
SUTTLE: Well, uh, Chief Garnett wanted me to tell you that the vehicle gets his seal of Saunders' face begins to turn red.
SUTTLE: And that he wants his chair back. If he was red before, now Saunders is crimson. A ther- mometer dropped into boiling water.
PHILLIP: ( scared ) ( more scared )
CLEVE: ( more scared )
BUTCH: Cleve races into the kitchen and the apron strings of his grandmother, Mack's wife, LOTTIE.
LOTTIE: He wake ya'll up? Now I told ya not to do that. BUTCH AND PHILLIP, breathing hard, can't help but laugh.
BUTCH: No harm, Ma'am.
LOTTIE: I'm Lottie. Mack's wife. This here's my grandbaby, Cleveland.
CLEVE: Name's Cleve. I'm six.
PHILLIP: I'm eight. Mine's Buzz.
CLEVE: We got us a creek down the way. Wanna go later?
PHILLIP: Sure thing. Mack enters after a hard night's work.
BUTCH: Mornin' to ya.
MACK: Mornin'. Rest done ya'll some good.
LOTTIE: You wanna plate?
MACK: Not jus' yet. Boy, go get my thermos from the truck. Cleve, still whispering and giggling with Phillip, isn't really listening.
MACK: Don't ya hear good, boy?! Mack firmly cuffs the boy's ear and Cleve jumps up and out the door, one hand holding the side of his head. Butch and Phillip both look up at Mack.
MACK: Boy don't got the sense Gawd gave a Want me to stay on Highway 70?
JONES: Want me to stay on Highway 70?
RED: Let's head on over towards Amarillo. We'll cross him there or wave goodbye at the border.
CLEVE: Agin'! Do it agin'!
LOTTIE: ( to Butch ) Where's the boy's mother?
BUTCH: We left her at home this time. Boy's night out kinda thing. Butch spots an old phonograph.
BUTCH: Say, lookie here. He gives it a spin with his finger and searches through a stack of 78s.
LOTTIE: Mr. Andrews give 'em to us when he got hisself a newfangled one. Butch finds a particular favorite.
BUTCH: Jeezus. Now this is music. You know how long it's been since I heard this.
LOTTIE: That's an oldie all right. Mrs. Andrews' maiden name was Bougeois half-Creole herself she is, but Mr. Andrews he don't like nobody to know. 'Suppose that's why he give 'em to us.
BUTCH: You dance, Lottie?
LOTTIE: Lawd goodness no.
BUTCH: Here, jus' follow me. He takes her in his arms and slowly but surely adjusts her movement to his. After a few rough turns they're not too Phillip can't help but smile as he and Cleve watch and Butch and Lottie dance, swirling around the room.
LOTTIE: Mr. Poe, you sure can move.
BUTCH: Oughta be able to. Was raised in a dime a dance whorehouse.
LOTTIE: Yer' foolin' me?
BUTCH: No, ma'am. My mama would dance their asses out of the fryin' pan and into the back room fire. Butch spots Phillip and Cleve, watching, giggling.
BUTCH: Get on yer' feet, Buzz. You'n Cleve shake a leg.
LOTTIE: ( encouraging ) Well go on! Dance, boys!
BUTCH: Dance, boys! The little boys do their best to emulate the adults and soon they're laughing and dancing, too. The RECORD STOPS. They all clap and laugh. Butch hears something. The RADIO in the bathroom.
BUTCH: We'll be leavin' soon enough. I'll kill all of you if you try anything stupid. Mack swallows hard.
LOTTIE: What's Texarkana like? I ain't never been there.
PHILLIP: ( through his teeth ) Oh, it's real nice. I got a dog named. Phillip and a tree house and.
BUTCH: Come on, Buzz. Time for us to hit the Whass' wrong, Mack? You look like you seen a ghost. Cleve runs up to Butch, turns around backwards and puts his hands between his legs.
LOTTIE: Whass' wrong, Mack? You look like you seen a ghost. Cleve runs up to Butch, turns around backwards and puts his hands between his legs.
CLEVE: Do me agin'!
MACK: ( scared for the boy ) No! Boy! Get over by yer' Mammaw!
CLEVE: Come on, Mister, do me agin'!
BUTCH: Why'd ya' wanna' go and hit Cleve for? He didn't move fast enough for ya', is that it? Or maybe he gets excited sometimes and don't hear everything ya' say? You make me sick to my stomach. Butch spits in Mack's face, then rises and walks over to Phillip and hands him the revolver.
BUTCH: Point it at 'em.
PHILLIP: I don't wanna'.
BUTCH: Point it! Phillip does so, occasionally wiping a tear from his eye. Mack reaches down and holds Lottie's hand. Butch kneels down to a still-sobbing Cleve.
BUTCH: Now, son, you wanna' flip? Cleve shakes his head "no" between sobs. Butch gently takes the boy and lifts him to a standing position.
BUTCH: Go ahead. Put yer' hands between yer' legs. I won't hurt ya'. Cleve turns to Mack and then runs to him. Butch walks calmly over and pulls the crying child away from the old man and back to the center of the room.
BUTCH: ( to Mack ) He don't trust ya' no more. You gotta' earn that, ya' know? ( to Cleve ) Put yer' hands 'tween yer' legs, son.
BUTCH: Buzz. Go out to the car and get that
BUTCH: Phillip slowly rises and walks away. He stops for a moment and turns his back.
BUTCH: ( to Mack ) Now you hold that boy and tell him you love him.
MACK: ( scared ) I love you.
BUTCH: No, old man. Say it like you mean it.
MACK: This boy know I loves him, mistah'.
BUTCH: Then say it.
LOTTIE: Please, mistah'. I gotta' sense about you. I know you a good man.
BUTCH: Nome', I ain't a good man. Ain't the worst neither, jus' a different breed.
HIS POV: Butch sits on the coffee table, which is pushed right up to Mack, Lottie and Cleve, who sit on chairs.
BUTCH: Say it, Mack. Don't cost nuthin'.
MACK: I love you, Cleve.
BUTCH: ( serious ) Gawd that's beautiful.
BUTCH: ( to Phillip ) You can go wait in the car or you can watch. Yer' old enough to think for
BUTCH: Shut yer' eyes, Cleve. Mack, you and Lottie hold the boy tight. Shut yer' eyes, too. Phillip, awkwardly aware that he's going to witness an execution, starts to cry out, then squelches himself. Butch seems to be in another world now taken to another place and time. A slight smile finds its way to his face, then disappears.
LOTTIE: Please, mistah', ain't no use in it.
MACK: We'll give you ever'thing we got! But Butch doesn't even hear the words. He slowly opens his eyes, pulls his chin from the pistol barrel and points it at Mack.
LOTTIE: Our Father, which are in heaven, Hallo be thy name.
BUTCH: ( to Lottie ) Shhh. shhh. shhh.
LOTTIE: . Thy Kingdom come, Lawd, thy will be done. here on Earth as it is in Heaven.
BUTCH: Shhh.. shhh.
LOTTIE: ( to Mack/Cleve ) Say it wif' me..
BUTCH: ( as if he hasn't
BUTCH: Thanks for yer' hospitality.
BUTCH: ( to the horizon )
PHILLIP: runs down the road, looking back every so often to see if Butch is following
BUTCH: makes his way onto the private dirt and starts walking back toward the main road.
BUTCH: ( yelling ) Phillip?!! I won't hurt ya', I swear!
PHILLIP: is running out of steam on the road ahead. He stops for a blow and looks back.
HIS POV: A few hundred yards back, Butch struggles forward.
ARCH: What the hell?.
TRUCK: pulls into Mack's place, and Arch gets out, peers into the station wagon, sees blood, grimaces and walks up to the house. He notices a dripping trail of blood on the porch.
ARCH: Mack?. Lottie?. Arch enters the living room and stops when he sees Mack and family, still gagged and tied to the chairs.
BUTCH: That was a helluva' thing to do, Phillip. You're a hero. Prolly' be in all the papers tomorrow, how you saved those folks. Truth is, I don't think I woulda' killed 'em. I only killed two people in my whole life. One hurt my mama and one hurt you.
RED: ( to Jones )
JONES: Half-hour tops.
RED: ( to Adler ) Get on the radio and tell whoever gets there first to play it nice and easy.
RED: Jeezus, who did that?
ADLER: Guvner, I assume.
SALLY: Not a bad idea.
RED: Go ahead and chopper her in.
SALLY: I didn't mean to pry last night.
RED: Yes, ya did.
SALLY: Look, Red, it was 20 years ago.
RED: Funny thing. When the judge sent him away the kid stared at me. Like he knew. Not hard or mad like you'd expect. It was. It was like he was forgiving me.
SALLY: Forgiving you for what?! For looking at the facts and doing what you thought was right?
RED: Naw. For what's gonna happen today.
BUTCH: What say we talk this over? Settle things man to man. Then we can be on our way. I'll even let you drive. Knock that right off yer' list. How'd that be?
PHILLIP: finally arrives at the creek, looking over his shoulder all the way. He looks at the water deep and running swift. Where to go? He decides and heads for the nearest tree a big oak, and shimmies up to a branch ten feet or so above the ground.
ARCH: That's his car. Took off on foot. He's got a pistol. Mack says it looks like a
HIS POV: A white figure moves slightly in the boughs of an oak tree. Phillip tries to climb higher but can't reach the next limb.
BUTCH: Alaska, Phillip. Wild and wooley. Man against nature. Me personally, I like them odds. Did I tell you my daddy lives there? He's the one that sent the picture postcard. Listen here to what he says about it.
BUTCH: ( reading ) 'Dear Robert'. that's my real name, Phillip. Robert. Jus' like old Bob the family man. 'Dear Robert, I just wanted to tell you that me leaving has nothing to do with you.'
BUTCH: ( reading ) 'Alaska is a beautiful place. Colder than hell most all the time.
BUTCH: He useta' pat me on the head and tell folks 'that it's some that can live life without askin' about it and it's others has to know why, and this boy here is one of the latters.' That's why I wanted to go up there. To visit the old man, I guess. Prolly' punch him one first, but then maybe we'd end up bein' friends, sit down, have a beer, talk things over.. Butch groans. He pulls his hand from his side. Blood is oozing all over the place. He returns the postcard to his pocket.
BUTCH: We'll jus' rest awhile. Then you can make up yer' mind. How's that? Phillip, still clinging to the tree, can't help but feel compassion for his friend.
BUTCH: One thing's for sure now I definitely believe in ghosts. Never been shot before.
PHILLIP: I'm sorry.
BUTCH: I know ya' are. Truth is, if it had to happen, I'm glad it was you. As opposed to someone I don't know, I mean. All things considered, I feel pretty good, though. Could use a beer, though.
PHILLIP: What's beer taste like?
BUTCH: Oh, it's about the best thing there is. You'd better put that on the list. Phillip's eye catches something. He stands up fearfully.
SALLY: I think our chances of this thing ending peacefully are good. He smiles a lonesome smile, opens the door and exits.
PHILLIP: You better run.
BUTCH: Naw, Phillip, I need me a time machine with a loud radio to take me where I'm goin'. Walkin's for squares.
HENDRICKS: Garnett, I'm Tom Hendricks, F.B.I., out of the Amarillo office. I understand you have one of our men with you?
RED: Yeah. You got the area quadroned off?
HENDRICKS: Water tight. Like a frog's pussy. Sorry, ma'am.
SALLY: No doubt an observation based on personal Red can't help but smile.
RED: You got him spotted?
HENDRICKS: By the creek, half-mile down the road. I spaced officers in a circle around them 100 yards or so away.
RED: You got any problem with me handling this What say we both handle it? Red sighs.
HENDRICKS: What say we both handle it? Red sighs.
RED: Let's head on down there. Bradley, gimme' a megaphone.
HENDRICKS: One other thing, Chief. Haynes is wounded. The boy gut-shot him.
RED: Yer' shittin' me.
BUTCH: ( yelling back ) All this for me. I'm touched, but I'm afraid ya'll gonna' have to back it up a step or two. I'm headed to Mexico. ( to Phillip ) Lyin' to 'em, of course.
RED: ( into megaphone )
BUTCH: ( to Phillip ) Beer. What'd I tell ya'. ( to Red ) Appreciate the offer, Cap'n, but ya' know I can't do that. If you and yer' pals back outta' here, I'll drop the boy at the border. ( beat ) If you don't I'll shoot him in the head. I mean it!
BUTCH: ( to Phillip ) Don't look at me like that. I don't even have a gun. What did ya' do with the pistola' anyway?
PHILLIP: Threw it in the well.
BUTCH: Good thinkin'.
ADLER: Ya' think he means it? Red mulls it over, replaces his old chaw with a fresh one and looks to Sally.
RED: What do you think?
SALLY: Based on what's happened the past two days I don't think he would.
RED: One thing's for sure. If he gets outta' here with the boy, we're right back to where we started.
BRADLEY: If he kills the boy he'll get the chair.
ADLER: Shit, he'll get the chair anyway. He's killed two in two days.
SALLY: We don't know that he pulled the trigger on either of the innocent victims.
ADLER: Well he wasn't at home in his Strat-O- Lounger. 'Sides, who killed Pugh? All right, both of you, that's enough! From the trail of blood I got a feelin' it ain't gonna' make any difference. Let's jus' concentrate on gettin' the boy out for now. Bobby Lee approaches with a leather case, bypasses Red and goes straight to Hendricks.
RED: All right, both of you, that's enough! From the trail of blood I got a feelin' it ain't gonna' make any difference. Let's jus' concentrate on gettin' the boy out for now. Bobby Lee approaches with a leather case, bypasses Red and goes straight to Hendricks.
BOBBY LEE: Where ya' want me, sir?
RED: Can you shoot off a hood? Bobby Lee nods. In the b.g., a HELICOPTER circles, preparing to land.
ADLER: That'd be the boy's mother.
RED: Bring her on over.
BUTCH: See, Phillip, dreams do come true. There's yer' rocketship.
PHILLIP: Think I'll get to ride it?
BUTCH: Today's the day.
BUTCH: What's wrong, Phillip?
PHILLIP: It's my mama. Phillip still cranes his neck to see.
BUTCH: Now that ya' got yerself a ghost suit, do ya' think she'll let ya' trick r' I got to do one house. Butch smiles. He has an idea.
PHILLIP: ( better than none ) I got to do one house.
BUTCH: Put yer' mask back on.
RED: Jus' push the button and talk normal. It SQUAWKS again.
RED: Here, I'll hold the damn thing. You jus' talk.
GLADYS: ( into megaphone ) Hullo. Hullo. Please, sir, he's my only son. I'll give you money, whatever I can. Please, I want to take my boy home! I want to.
RED: ( to Gladys ) Yer' doin' fine. We'll get another one.
BRADLEY: I think yer' tobacco spit shorted it out, Red.
BUTCH: You ready to go home?
PHILLIP: ( very sure ) ( yells ) Hey, Cap'n, you got any candy?
BUTCH: ( yells ) Hey, Cap'n, you got any candy?
RED: ( re: megaphone ) This one's shot.
BRADLEY: ( re: megaphone ) This one's shot.
RED: Well, find another one! Red sighs and cups his hands around his mouth.
RED: ( yells ) ( yells ) Candy! Halloween candy! Popcorn balls, caramel apples, gum, shit like that?!
BUTCH: ( yells ) Candy! Halloween candy! Popcorn balls, caramel apples, gum, shit like that?!
RED: ( yells ) You hungry?
BUTCH: ( yells ) You find me some candy and I'll deliver up a ghost.
RED: ( to Adler ) You heard him.
BRADLEY: Don't have another megaphone, Chief. Red just shakes his head and sighs. Bobby Lee leans on the hood of the car and places one eye behind the scope of his rifle.
RED: You all set?
BOBBY LEE: You say when, I'll say dead. Red glares at Bobby Lee for an extended moment.
RED: ( yells; to Butch ) You got yer'self a deal. Candy's waitin'.
BUTCH: ( yells ) One more thing. His old lady has to swear to take him trick r 'treatin' every year. Gimme' yer' list, Phillip.
BUTCH: Gimme' yer' list, Phillip.
PHILLIP: Gimme that list. Phillip pulls it out. Butch snatches it and reads it to himself, laughing. He's on a death roll of sorts, between losing blood and being in an impossible situation he almost seems to be enjoying the macabre scenario as it unfolds. Phillip, on the other hand, is beginning to sob.
BUTCH: Gimme that list. Phillip pulls it out. Butch snatches it and reads it to himself, laughing. He's on a death roll of sorts, between losing blood and being in an impossible situation he almost seems to be enjoying the macabre scenario as it unfolds. Phillip, on the other hand, is beginning to sob.
BUTCH: ( yells ) And she's gotta promise to take him to the fair for rollercoasters and cotton candy whenever he wants. or at least once a year.
PHILLIP: I wanna' go home!.
BUTCH: ( checks list; yells ) And when he gets older he gets to drink I don't need beer!.
PHILLIP: I don't need beer!.
BUTCH: ( to Phillip ) Well it's on yer' list. ( yells to Red ) And to go out on dates with girls! ( to Phillip ) Not on the list, but you'll thank me later for that little addition. ( checks list ) Done that, got to drive, gonna' ride that rocketship. That's about it. ( yells; to Red ) She's gotta' promise or I won't let him I wanna' go home, Butch. My mama's not bad! She gives me those things.
PHILLIP: I wanna' go home, Butch. My mama's not bad! She gives me those things.
BUTCH: Don't kid a kidder, Phillip.
RED: ( yells ) It's a deal!
BUTCH: ( yells ) Make her say it!
PHILLIP: I jus' wanna' go home.
BUTCH: ( sincere ) Know jus' how ya' feel, Phillip.
GLADYS: ( to Red ) Phillip knows those things are against our beliefs.
RED: ( to Gladys ) What kinda' foolishness is that? ( yells ) She promises!
BUTCH: ( yells ) Make her say it!
GLADYS: ( yells ) I promise!
BUTCH: ( to Phillip ) Can we trust her?
PHILLIP: She's a real good mama. Butch reaches into his pocket, extracts the remaining wad of stolen bills, unzips the Casper outfit, stuffs them into the costume and rezips.
BUTCH: ( to Phillip ) When you get home, hide this. If she's lyin' you can buy yer' own damn
PHILLIP: Yer' not bad, are you, Butch?
BUTCH: ( beat ) Now, Buzz, listen here. I want ya' to step out there real slow, keepin' yer' paws in the air. Then strut right over to them cops and yell 'trick r' treat.' Got it?
PHILLIP: What are you gonna' do?
BUTCH: Somethin'll come to mind. Butch sticks out his hand. Phillip shakes it, afraid.
BUTCH: 'Bye, Phillip. It's been one helluva' Butch nods and smiles.
BUTCH: ( yells ) All right, Cap'n. Make way for Casper the friendly ghost. The friendliest ghost I know.
RED: Gimme' them things. Adler hands over the binoculars. Red takes a look.
RED: ( yells ) Come on. Keep walkin'!
RED: ( to himself ) Why the hell's he stoppin'? ( to Gladys; Call for yer' boy to come!
BUTCH: Personally I think we negotiated a pretty fair deal, but if there's somethin' else you want.
PHILLIP: ( disbelief ) Do they want to shoot you?
HENDRICKS: He thought better of releasin' the hostage.
SALLY: It doesn't necessarily mean that.
RED: ( to Bobby Lee ) Stay on ready.
RED: I seen it all now.
HENDRICKS: What's he up to?
RED: Hell if I know.
SALLY: He's giving himself up.
HENDRICKS: Keep in mind he still has the gun.
RED: ( yells; to Butch! Stop and let the boy go! Put yer' hands up and let the boy go!!!
BUTCH: So I guess that's it for Alaska, Phillip.
RED: Stop and put your hands on your head!
GLADYS: Run, Phillip! Come here, Phillip!
SALLY: ( to herself ) Come on, come on.
HENDRICKS: ( a warning ) Chief, we've got an armed killer and an innocent boy out there.
RED: ( to Bobby Lee ) You clean?
BOBBY LEE: As a whistle.
RED: Keep him locked down. Don't squeeze til' I say 'when.' Red holds Bobby Lee's eyes until the young Fed nods. Then Red unstraps his holster and moves between the cars.
HENDRICKS: Where the hell you going? But Red's not listening, just walking, long and tall, into the field.
RED: I'm unarmed. Toss your gun on the Butch smiles.
BUTCH: If I had a pistola I'd be headed the other direction. My partner here got rid of the evidence. Do I know you, friend?
RED: No. not really.
BUTCH: Hmm. Well, look I wanna' talk to the boy and then we'll take care of bidness. How's that? Only take a second. Red nods then looks over his shoulder at the patrol cars lined up like a wagon train, guns aimed, Bobby Lee peering through the scope of his rifle.
BUTCH: I wanna' give ya' somethin'.
HENDRICKS: He's stopped.
ADLER: He's gonna make a run for it.
SALLY: Give it a second!
HENDRICKS: ( to Bobby Lee ) Hold him!
SALLY: ( yells ) Let the boy go, Butch!
HENDRICKS: ( to Bobby Lee ) If he makes a move.
BUTCH: Mebe' someday you'll get to go.
HENDRICKS: He's goin' for his weapon!
THROUGH BINOCULARS: Butch reaches into his back pocket.
IN FIELD: Red squints to make out what Butch's reaching for.
HIS POV: Butch smiles as he retrieves the POSTCARD from his pocket.
ROADSIDE: Sally realizes it's not a gun that Butch is reaching for.
SALLY: FINGER ON TRIGGER squeezes An EXPLOSION followed by a RINGING ECHO.
IN FIELD: Butch's chest explodes when the bullet hits him. He rocks backwards, still on his knees. and looks at Phillip in Phillip screams, grabs Butch and holds him up.
BUTCH: tastes blood and sighs.
BUTCH: Damn, Buzz, shot twice in the same day.
AT ROADSIDE: Gladys runs from behind the car, followed by a host of Bobby Lee stands, lowers his rifle disengages and smiles at IN FIELD Red stands frozen, staring, in another world. An OFFICER trots up to Butch and does a careful ground frisk.
HENDRICKS: Keep everybody back! No need to worry. He can't hurt nobody
BOBBY LEE: No need to worry. He can't hurt nobody
IN FIELD: Red stands frozen, staring, in another world. An OFFICER trots up to Butch and does a careful ground frisk.
OFFICER: ( calls back ) No weapon, Chief!
ROADSIDE: Red walks up to Bobby Lee, stops and stares at the grinning marksman. After a beat, Red turns then nearly jumps out of shoes with a sudden right cross that floors the younger man. Red starts to jump in for more but Hendricks, stunned, jumps in, grabs Red and, joined by four other Officers, holds the older man back. Shouting, i.e. "Hey, hey, Red, whoa, whoa!" Red settles a bit. Hendricks turns to Bobby Lee who rises to one knee and wipes at a bloody lip, and then to Red who is still breathing hard.
HENDRICKS: What the hell was that all about?!
RED: I didn't say 'when.'
HENDRICKS: ( to no one/everyone )
ADLER: I thought he had a gun, too, Red. There was just no way of knowin'.
PHILLIP: is helped to his feet by his mother. She holds him dearly to her chest. He hugs back just as hard, his blood-stained Casper outfit staining her blouse. She unzips the costume and dollar bills fly all around. She starts to lead Phillip off but he won't leave until. He pulls the postcard from Butch's hand.
SALLY: You did everything you could. You know
RED: I don't know nuthin'. Not a damn thing.
HELICOPTER: as it lifts off and speeds away. As it wipes the sun.
BUTCH: His eyes don't close, still squinted but frozen.
BUZZARD: continues its flight past the sun.
SUN: flares, SENDING the SCREEN TO:
THE END: Writers : John Lee Hancock
