PERFECT CREATURE: Written by Glenn Standring
SHOOTING SCRIPT: 14 May 2004
LILLY: For three hundred years the great plagues have swept the earth. Diseases created from the experiments of the Alchemists. Thinking they had discovered Gods secret code for life, the Alchemists experimented with genetic science. They had no idea what they had
GENETIC DOCTOR: ( off ) See here. This is what you need to look for.
GENETIC DOCTOR: ( continuing; off ) A genetic mutation, we all carry it. But we now know a virus activates it.
GENETIC DOCTOR: ( continuing ) This Virus plays some unknown role in the birth the Brothers. Of course the mutation occurs very rarely these days. And only in
GENETIC DOCTOR: ( continuing ) Strange isn't? That God would choose such humble vehicle for a miracle. The mothers invariably come from the slums, we don't know why. ( to the woman ) This is your 7th isn't it?
GENETIC DOCTOR: That God would choose such humble vehicle for a miracle. The mothers invariably come from the slums, we don't know why. This is your 7th isn't it?
GENETIC DOCTOR: ( continuing ) Yes, her first was successful, a Brother was born. Thereafter variously malformed offspring. We can only hope this one will be ( to woman ) You'll have to try harder this
GENETIC DOCTOR: What is it?
GENETIC DOCTOR: Don't be stupid woman! The woman drops her eyes. We see the Apprentice Doctor, almost pitying the poor woman. You won't have to worry. The Brotherhood will take him. We are closer on the woman now. Tears begin to glisten in her eyes as we drift closer to her. .raise him in the church, teach him. He's special. You should be proud. It's a blessing really, he'll want for nothing. Not like the rest of us? We track in closer, closer, to the woman, then continue, right into her eye, through the fluid, to see the room reflected upside down at the back of the retina. This dissolves to an upside view of.
AUGUSTUS: This is your brother Silus. You will teach him.
AUGUSTUS: No, not any more.
AUGUSTUS: ( continuing ) Welcome to the world little
AUGUSTUS: The girl?
SILUS: It is taken care of.
AUGUSTUS: This is good.
SILUS: Augustus. We failed this girl. We asked her to help us catch him, and then we failed her.
AUGUSTUS: Yes. But her death served a greater good. Every trap needs
AUGUSTUS: ( continuing ) Are you sure you won't join me?
SILUS: Perhaps this is beyond us. Perhaps we should inform the authorities. The human beings.
AUGUSTUS: For now the Brothers feel we should deal with this ourselves.
SILUS: If they find out we are covering up these deaths.
AUGUSTUS: Which is why you must find him.
AUGUSTUS: ( continuing ) For centuries we Brothers have served mankind and them us. The great union. But remember your history. 300 years ago when our kind were first born into this world they burnt our children as monsters. They had no notion of evolution. In another world we might all have been slaughtered, only to be remembered in myth, monsters to frighten the young or a puzzle for anthropologists. We must refuse to let one aberrant individual destroy the balance between the two races. The old prejudices are still there. Human beings are paranoid creatures by Perhaps they have good reason.
SILUS: Perhaps they have good reason.
AUGUSTUS: Silus. Simply concern yourself with finding Edgar. Find your Brother so that we can help him. Before he kills again.
JONES: Everyone's ready Lilly.
LILLY: About time.
LILLY: ( continuing ) On three gents. One, two.
JONES: ( to the woman ) Don't you move!
LILLY: ( to the slum landlord ) Don't you dare.
LILLY: ( continuing )
JONES: God help us. What an appalling
SLUM LANDLORD: I don't know nothing about it. I give 'em out. Make sure everyone gets 'em.
JONES: That's a lie! We know you've been trading influenza vaccine in the
FRANK: Lil'. I think you should see this.
FRANK: I'd use the mask if I were you.
JONES: You're a fucking liar!
SLUM LANDLORD: No, no, I swear it, I gave 'em their boosters, both of 'em. I'm a responsible landlord, I swear to god. There must've been something wrong with them vaccines. This is a civil health violation! You're going to the hell house for this. You can forget lovely Doris here where you're going.
JONES: This is a civil health violation! You're going to the hell house for this. You can forget lovely Doris here where you're going.
SLUM LANDLORD: I don't know what you're on about. I've done nothing, I swear to god, I've done nothing. Lilly lets her eyes drift down, all the way down to the chair legs, which rock unevenly on the floor. Lilly is staring at the scratched, worn floor boards which MOVE. Cut to Frank, prizing back the floor boards. Jones restrains the Slum Landlord. Lilly watches. Frank pulls the floor boards away easily. We see that hidden in the floor cavity are packets of something. Frank pulls them out. Rips one of the plastic bags open. In it are packets with the words "Jamestown Borough - Civilian Influenza Vaccination." Frank holds it up for Lilly to see. The Slum Landlord is now looking three ways at once. Lilly slowly begins to approach the Slum Landlord.
LILLY: It is my pleasure to inform you that you are under arrest for trafficking influenza vaccine.
SLUM LANDLORD: I want my lawyer.
LILLY: This is a violation of the 12/10 health act, whereby you have withheld borough sponsored vaccines from your tenants.
SLUM LANDLORD: I want a lawyer!
LILLY: Anything you say will be held against you as evidence and, by endangering the public good, you are not entitled to a lawyer. The Slum Landlord just stares at her.
SLUM LANDLORD: Fuck you then. Lilly smiles grimly.
LILLY: There's only one other thing.
PROSTITUTE: Oi! How about me? He promised me some of that. I earned it.
FRANK: ( hitting the horn ) Come one!
JONES: Lil', you want some?
LILLY: Smells terrible.
JONES: I'm not letting that scum put me off my food. That'd be like a moral victory.
LILLY: I'll get out here.
FRANK: You sure?
FRANK: ( continuing ) What's up with her?
FRANK: ( continuing ) Jones? Is she alright?
JONES: Yeah. Lilly's kid. It died of the influenza, didn't it.
FRANK: She's never said anything about a No. She never says anything.
JONES: No. She never says anything.
KID: Hey?! Hey!
KID: Don't, I didn't do nothing. It was a Brother. It was a Brother did it.
AUGUSTUS: 300 years ago, with these simple instruments, the alchemist Guiseppi De Angelo discovered what we today call genetic science.
AUGUSTUS: ( continuing ) He deciphered that the Brothers were a new race of beings, sent by god, to serve and protect you.
AUGUSTUS: ( continuing ) De Angelo formed the church of the Brotherhood. He was a great great man, but there were others, bad men, who took what De Angelo had discovered and experimented without concern for the results. The science of genetics and all its power has been banned ever since. Who can tell me what came from these bad experiments?
AUGUSTUS: ( continuing ) All the bad things. Like bad germs and flu.
CHILD: All the bad things. Like bad germs and flu.
AUGUSTUS: Yes. That's right.
AUGUSTUS: ( continuing ) All the bad things.
JONES: Someone should flatten this cesspool and start again.
STREET REPORTER: Marm? The Tribune. Do you have any comments on the death?
LILLY: STREET REPORTER
STREET REPORTER: They're saying it was a Brother, is that true?
LILLY: Arrest her. Find any witnesses and shut them
LILLY: ( continuing; to Jones ) Find any witnesses and shut them
LILLY: Can I step in?
FORENSIC GUY: With the traffic. What's it matter.
DOMINIC: Hello Dominic.
LILLY: Hello Dominic.
DOMINIC: Have you seen it? Dominic bends down and moves the dead woman's head, displaying the side of her neck. A bite has torn the skin on the side of her neck. The wound extends down, the carotid artery sliced in two.
DOMINIC: ( continuing ) It's a bite. If you know what I
LILLY: Any identification? She is passed a bloody ID. Lilly stares at it.
LILLY: ( continuing ) Tanya Garfield.
JONES: ( to forensics team ) Where do you get a cup of tea around here?
JONES: ( continuing ) There's a kid who saw it, down
JONES: ( continuing ) Says it was a Brother. And they've got another fellow, that's all who saw it.
LILLY: Alright, we'll close this down gents. None of you are to say a word, not even to your old mother. All the police officers stare at her; they know what she means alright.
LILLY: ( continuing ) Jones. Make sure.
LILLY: ( continuing ) He saw what happened?
POLICEMAN 1: Now he wont talk. Didn't see Lilly looks at the boy. So young.
LILLY: What's your name? The kid doesn't answer and gets a whack around the ears from one of the policemen.
LILLY: ( continuing; to the Stop that.
LILLY: ( continuing ) What's your name then?
KID: ( nervous ) You live around here?
LILLY: You live around here? The kid looks nervous. Lilly moves some of the bedraggled hair out of the kid's eyes.
LILLY: ( continuing ) I grew up 3 streets from here. Matheson Lane. The Skrummers ( surprised ) You did?
KID: ( surprised ) You did?
LILLY: Or should I say, I crawled out of The kid smiles. Lilly focuses on him now.
LILLY: ( continuing ) No one else will do anything about this, you know? They just think this is a slum. No one really cares what happens to the people here. Except for you. And me.
LILLY: ( continuing ) What did you see?
KID: A man.
LILLY: What kind of man?
KID: A Brother.
LILLY: You're sure it was a Brother?
KID: He had teeth and everything.
LILLY: Where did he go?
KID: He went straight up there.
LILLY: Alright, you go with these men, they'll look after you. I promise.
LILLY: ( continuing; to the Get him to describe it all. And keep him away from everyone.
LILLY: ( continuing; to the And get him some food.
JONES: Now they'll all want feeding.
LILLY: ( off ) I've quarantined the neighborhood.
LILLY: ( continuing ) As far as anyone knows we have a new influenza outbreak.
ANDERSON: What about the telephonic They're cooperating, closing all phone lines in and out except directly to us.
LILLY: They're cooperating, closing all phone lines in and out except directly to us.
ANDERSON: Sit, sit.
ANDERSON: ( continuing ) You've done well Lilly. The reporter is more of a problem. We have 2 days by law before we have to release her. Then it's out.
ANDERSON: ( continuing ) I hate these things. I'm like a pin cushion.
LILLY: It's better than the alternative,
ANDERSON: I need you to stay with this, Lilly. You know Jamestown better than anyone, how to handle the
ANDERSON: ( continuing ) The Brothers have requested to be involved with the investigation.
LILLY: That's nice for them.
ANDERSON: You have a problem with it?
LILLY: Not particularly.
ANDERSON: Good. I think they can help. And I don't want someone working on this whose got something against the Church.
LILLY: How do you know I don't?
ANDERSON: Lilly, you're the least prejudiced person I know. In fact, you're the only one I know. That's important. The church is powerful, but more than that, people's faith in the Brotherhood is about all they've got these days. And the government knows it. Even the Queen herself is involved. This is political.
JONES: Lil'. He's here.
STEPH: Do you know who he is? That's Brother Silus. They say one day he will lead the Brotherhood. He's a great man.
JONES: I think I hear choir music.
STEPH: Do you respect anything?
JONES: Hey. My old mum goes to church four times a week and gives blood. She's happy as a lark. Just don't expect me to kiss him, that's all I'm telling you.
LILLY: Senior Brother Edgar. How long have you known about this?
SILUS: A matter of weeks. Lilly smiles.
SILUS: ( continuing ) Is there something wrong?
LILLY: Yes. Withholding evidence. Covering up two murders. And no one's worried. If me or one of the people in Jamestown did that they'd be in the hell house with the key thrown away. It seems the church is able to do whatever it Silus nods.
SILUS: You're right to not like it. It is Lilly becomes more interested at this; at the bald honesty of the statement.
SILUS: ( continuing ) We thought we could find Brother Edgar ourselves. We were wrong. But now any debate is pointless.
SILUS: ( continuing ) The greatest danger is if this were to become public knowledge.
LILLY: Wouldn't want anyone criticizing the church I suppose.
SILUS: It's more than that Captain. This is about prejudice, or rather the nature of it. As a female surely you would understand.
LILLY: How many other Captains in this borough are female?
SILUS: How many other Captains in this borough are female?
LILLY: How are your actions judged, the same or differently from the men.
SILUS: How are your actions judged, the same or differently from the men.
LILLY: Exactly. If a white man kills, then he is just a killer. If a black man kills, then all black men are suspect. That is the nature of prejudice. Those who are different are grouped together. If only one Brother does a bad thing then all Brothers are suspect, because we are different. And then what would this world be like, if there was no hope?
SILUS: Exactly. If a white man kills, then he is just a killer. If a black man kills, then all black men are suspect. That is the nature of prejudice. Those who are different are grouped together. If only one Brother does a bad thing then all Brothers are suspect, because we are different. And then what would this world be like, if there was no hope?
LILLY: Alright then. So what do you First, there is something you should hear.
SILUS: First, there is something you should hear.
LILLY: Ok, ok, quiet down. Everyone nods and shuts up as Lilly stands in front of the Gentlemen, there's no other way to put it. We have only 2 days to find the suspect. There are guffaws from most of the policemen.
LILLY: ( continuing ) Gentlemen, there's no other way to put it. We have only 2 days to find the suspect.
JONES: There's no chance. Not a hope in He's right. We don't even know where to begin.
FRANK: He's right. We don't even know where to begin.
LILLY: Lilly is angry. There is silence in the room. Lilly seems more angry than she should be.
LILLY: ( continuing ) What you are about to hear will not leave this room. Everyone understand? Jones?
LILLY: ( continuing ) I would suggest anyone with a weak stomach leave now.
LILLY: ( continuing ) This is Brother Silus.
SILUS: Thank you Captain. Could we have the plate?
SILUS: ( continuing ) Senior Brother Edgar. Until 3 weeks ago, he was a trusted and talented theologian and scientist.
DOMINIC: What'd he do?
SILUS: He was personally responsible for developing the most recent influenza antivirals. It is because of him that most of you are alive today. His behavior appeared normal. Next. 3 photos come up. The victims.
SILUS: ( continuing ) The victims. John Anderson. Julie Danes. Tanya Garfield. All in their early 20's, but beyond that no obvious connection. Next.
SILUS: ( continuing ) There is no precedent for Brother Edgar's behavior. No Brother has ever taken a human life, not in the 300 years since we began. Not one. Our role has been to preserve and maintain the human life. Not take it.
JONES: Next he'll be wanting an fucking Silus stares directly at Jones now. Their eyes lock. Silus continues, perfectly calm.
SILUS: What I am saying to you is that Brother Edgar's behavior is aberrant. We
SILUS: ( cont )
DOMINIC: How do you know? Silus moves to the desk next to him. He passes something to another cop who now sits at the desk. We see Lilly now. The look on her face tells us that she knows what is coming and she's not looking forward to it. We see what Silus gave the cop. An audio tape. The cop places the tape in a tape deck. He then switches it on. He then turns the volume knob on an amplifier which now directs static hiss to two big speakers. We see the faces of the cops, all listening in the dim light coming from the slide projector. Above the level of the hissing tape there is another noise. It is a wet sound. Like a cat would make if it were lapping up milk. An another sound. Like an animal, moaning with We see the cops; some of them are beginning to twig. And there is another noise. It is a man; moaning.
EDGAR: ( off, like to a lover ) ( off ) ( off ) I said shut up!
EDGAR: ( off ) I said shut up!
JONES: Jones, sit down.
LILLY: Jones, sit down.
JONES: Why are we listening to this?!
LILLY: Jones stands there enraged. Dominic pulls him down back into his chair. All the cops are appalled by what they have heard. And then a voice.
EDGAR: ( off ) Good. Now you're quiet.
EDGAR: ( continuing; off ) Did you hear that Silus? I hope so.
EDGAR: ( continuing; off ) The next one will be tomorrow. There is a square, Bridge Square it's called. I will take the next one from there. You should try harder this time. Please try
FRANK: He sent this to you. Specifically.
SILUS: We share the same mother. There is a bond. The cops all stare at Silus' emotionless response.
LILLY: There will be two teams. Frank, I want you and Abernathy up in the buildings around Bridge Square. Frank nods.
LILLY: ( continuing ) I'll lead the other team with Dominic, Jones and Queen's Imperial Guard in support. No guns, batons only.
JONES: You heard me. He's to be taken
LILLY: You heard me. He's to be taken
SILUS: 34 INT: POLICE VAN - NIGHT 34
LILLY: We cut between Lilly in the van and Silus on the roof.
SILUS: Silus surveys the scene. He can see an Imperial Guard sniper over the square on the roof of a building. Below, in the street, we can see the silhouettes of several Brothers; unmoving, watchful sentinels.
LILLY: It's getting late.
SILUS: He will come.
LILLY: Ok. We'll sit tight.
JONES: This is a dud.
LILLY: Cut to
FRANK: Yeah Lil'.
LILLY: ( off ) Not a thing.
FRANK: Not a thing.
LILLY: ( off ) Check each floor again.
FRANK: You heard her. Once more for the
EDGAR: Cut to A rat, staring back at Edgar. The rat turns and streaks off back whence it came. A slight smile appears on Edgar's face; a smile that can chill the blood in your veins. Then he begins to move forward. We hear his breathing; low, but excited. He moves with the precision and strength of an insect. His eyes glisten and reflect light like an animal's. His skin is flesh white and milky in the metal shaft. Cut to
FRANK: Lil'! Lil'!
LILLY: ( off ) He's on the sixth floor! He's on the sixth floor!
FRANK: ( off ) He's on the sixth floor! He's on the sixth floor!
LILLY: Let's go.
LILLY: ( whispering ) Police. Get back inside. Get back.
JONES: Jones turns to see Lilly, but she's not there. The hallway is empty. He sees the door Lilly was pulled through. Then looks down. Blood is seeping from under the door.
JONES: ( continuing )
EDGAR: You're so strong.
JONES: Jones gets close to Lilly, starts squeezing the side of her neck, trying to stop the arterial blood from squirting her life away.
JONES: ( continuing ) Oh shit shit.
DOMINIC: Lilly's hurt. She's hurt! He's in the ventilation shaft!
DOMINIC: ( continuing ) He's in the ventilation shaft!
JONES: She's dying! She's fucking dying! At that moment SILUS appears at the door. Silus stares at Lilly, bleeding to death in Jones' arms. Silus immediately bends to her. With his free hand Jones pulls out a vicious knife which he points at Silus.
JONES: ( continuing ) Get away from her!
JONES: ( continuing ) Get away or I'll stick you!
SILUS: Do you want me to save her? Jones wavers.
SILUS: ( continuing ) She is dying.
SILUS: ( continuing ) Lilly. Stop fighting now. Fall back, fall back.
DOMINIC: The cops are silent. Stare at Silus who opens his eyes.
SILUS: The cops are silent. Stare at Silus who opens his eyes.
SILUS: ( continuing ) He's going up.
JONES: Get out of my way.
SILUS: Jones stares at Silus and contemplates firing.
JONES: He killed Lilly. Silus doesn't move. He stares calmly at Jones. Jones points the gun in Silus' face. Jones lowers his gun. We end close on Silus' serene face.
JONES: ( continuing )
SLOW DISSOLVE: 50 OMITTED 50 50A INT: SFX - CONTINUING 50A
LILLY: Antibiotics. They say it's like an animal bite.
LILLY: ( continuing ) I want to thank you.
SILUS: We all caught Edgar.
LILLY: I don't mean that. The blood, they say it saved my life. Is it true that people who go to church are given your blood?
SILUS: Sometimes the rituals call for it. Some say they have visions from it. That it restores their health.
LILLY: So smooth. She turns over his hand to reveal the wrist; the scars are almost gone from where Silus cut himself.
LILLY: ( continuing ) Healed already.
SILUS: In some ways my body is like a human embryo. The cells regenerate quickly. It is why we live so long. Will someone come for you? Your family? She releases his hand.
LILLY: I don't have one. Not any more.
SILUS: I see.
LILLY: Influenza. My husband was quick. But my daughter, Mary, her little body fought it for a long time. So I just waited. Hoped. But then you realize how cruel hope is. And you just want it to end. Not to stop her suffering, but to stop my own.
SILUS: I am sorry.
LILLY: Do we seem pathetic to you?
SILUS: No. Fragile. Worn down by nature. But you fight back.
LILLY: Yes. We're good at that. I think yours will be a good life to watch, Lilly. Goodbye.
SILUS: I think yours will be a good life to watch, Lilly. Goodbye.
JONES: Nicely done. You're more human than I thought.
AUGUSTUS: Silus. You know Professor Liepsky.
SILUS: How is he?
PROFESSOR LIEPSKY: See for yourself.
SILUS: Is the brace necessary?
AUGUSTUS: He decapitated a guard as they brought him in. Even though he was sedated. He said he will drink us all dry.
SILUS: Insane then.
PROFESSOR LIEPSKY: Not quite.
PROFESSOR LIEPSKY: ( continuing ) He's become infected.
SILUS: With what? Go on, Brother Silus will soon be part of the inner circle of the Brotherhood. He should know this.
AUGUSTUS: Go on, Brother Silus will soon be part of the inner circle of the Brotherhood. He should know this.
PROFESSOR LIEPSKY: If she wasn't restrained she would try to kill you. Don't worry, it's only transmissible through their blood. We designed it that way.
SILUS: PROFESSOR LIEPSKY
PROFESSOR LIEPSKY: Genetically designed. Edgar was experimenting with the virus that created you. It was sanctioned by the government.
SILUS: Since when do they sanction such Since not one Brother has been born in 70 years. And never a female of your kind from which we could breed. And we need to breed more Brothers. You give the world hope. To the people you're like gods walking the earth.
PROFESSOR LIEPSKY: Since not one Brother has been born in 70 years. And never a female of your kind from which we could breed. And we need to breed more Brothers. You give the world hope. To the people you're like gods walking the earth.
AUGUSTUS: This is what Edgar was doing Silus. Trying to genetically control the birth of Brothers. Silus is now turns back to the poor creature on the bed.
PROFESSOR LIEPSKY: And Edgar was successful. Each of these women carried a Brother, for a time. But, the virus. changed. Most of them have died and these will die soon. Silus places his hand on the poor creature's head, blessing And Edgar may be the first Brother to ever die.
PROFESSOR LIEPSKY: ( continuing ) And Edgar may be the first Brother to ever die.
PROFESSOR LIEPSKY: ( continuing ) Before that, his brain will wither like these women. Containment will be the issue.
SILUS: ( off ) The police officer. Lilly. Did he infect her with this?
PROFESSOR LIEPSKY: ( off ) No. She was lucky. But it is in Edgar's blood. It always will be.
SILUS: Hello my Brother. Do you like what they've done for me Silus?
EDGAR: Do you like what they've done for me Silus? He moves again, as if enjoying it.
SILUS: You are sick. We will help you if we can.
EDGAR: Help me? I am being what I was meant to be. How can you help me from that? Or do you want to tame me? Brainwash me? Animal or vegetable, are those the two choices, Silus? Edgar leans closer to Silus.
EDGAR: ( continuing ) I want to share the feeling with you. To feel their blood flow until every last drop is yours, until that weak, pointless little pump finally stops.
EDGAR: ( continuing ) The one I had, the police woman. She was so strong. I found it hard to leave her.
EDGAR: ( continuing ) Is she dead?
SILUS: She survived.
EDGAR: Good. I will have her again. For perhaps the first time, we see a real hint of anger on Silus' face.
SILUS: You won't touch her.
EDGAR: You've chosen to watch over her. You want her don't you? I can see it in your eyes. You are like me.
SILUS: I will pray for your cure, Brother.
EDGAR: I wont be able to forgive you for this you know? Not ever. In fact, when I get out of here.
EDGAR: ( continuing ) I will make you see. I will show you the way. I will see you drink your little police woman right
LILLY: Take them away from here.
JONES: You don't feel like a drink?
JONES: ( continuing ) Now my girls, anyone hungry?
CONSOLE OPERATOR: ( off ) If you don't stop that we'll use the gas. You hear me?
JONES: ( off ) I knocked.
LILLY: You nearly gave me a heart attack. Steph now emerges from the kitchen, dressed in a t-shirt and shorts and carrying some food. Jones looks at her coldly.
JONES: What's this then? Lilly and Steph smile at the inference Jones is beginning to My apartment was condemned, keep your hair on, what's left of it. Meanwhile Lilly shushes them and turns back to the murky gray images emitting from the television.
STEPH: My apartment was condemned, keep your hair on, what's left of it. Meanwhile Lilly shushes them and turns back to the murky gray images emitting from the television.
TV PRESENTER: .the ascension through the ranks of the Church has been fast for Brother Silus. He will now be the highest ranking cardinal outside the ruling council of the Brotherhood. This is largely seen as a reward for his handling of the last influenza pandemic. Jones and Lilly watch as Silus is seen on the television in an interview. Steph stares at the screen with awe, she involuntarily kisses the symbol that hangs from a chain around her neck; it resembles a Brother's ring.
STEPH: Isn't he amazing? Jones sneers under his breath.
JONES: A saint.
LILLY: We move over their shoulders to track closer to the black and white TV screen.
TV PRESENTER: You have been an opponent of those who want an easing in the ban on genetic research.
SILUS: TV PRESENTER
TV PRESENTER: They would say you're denying legitimate research into a science that would change the world.
SILUS: The church does not deny the potential. Only the motivations of those who want to exploit it. And the fact that we understand so little of its power.
TV PRESENTER: With the elimination of influenza, are we approaching a new era where disease might be a thing of the As she is saying this we are now close on the TV's speaker. We then begin tracking out. We reveal the speaker is not part of the TV, but the speaker in Edgar's cell. Edgar, smiling coldly as he listens. As he listens he is gently gliding his finger nails against a sharp edge of the chair; sharpening Disease is part of nature, it will always be a part of our lives. Close on Edgar.
SILUS: Disease is part of nature, it will always be a part of our lives. Close on Edgar.
EDGAR: How true.
TV PRESENTER: ( off ) Brother Silus' confirmation ceremony will be held today in the sacred Chapel of St. Augustine where all the Brotherhood will
CONTINUING: Professor Liepsky, looking more aged, worn, enters the control room. Alarms are sounding. At the console is a human male who looks terrified.
CONSOLE OPERATOR: I turned off the lights to try and calm him.
CONSOLE OPERATOR: ( continuing ) We gassed him as usual. We waited 10 minutes. He must have held his
AUGUSTUS: The blood flows, through them, to us and we preserve them, preserve the blood we are bound to protect.
SILUS: Let the blood be one and the two races join, as the Perfect
EDGAR: Today my brother enters the history books, Professor.
PROFESSOR LIEPSKY: ( over the tannoy ) Move back!
EDGAR: Tonight all the Brothers will be with him. A perfect day for me to
EDGAR: You won't be taking any more calls
AUGUSTUS: Now he carries this thing out into the world. Can you imagine what will happen if he infects others? Or if the experiments were known.
SILUS: The question becomes what will he do next? He said he would kill us all. But especially the police officer. Lilly.
PROSTITUTE: Come on governor, you going to pay me or not?
FREDDY: Soon enough my cherub. I've not finished with you yet.
FREDDY: You've been ripping me off! I should blow your dirty little brains out!
STEPH: ( off ) Police! Put the gun down now!
FREDDY: It's ok. I'm complying officer, Put the gun on the ground and step I'm doing it.
STEPH: Put the gun on the ground and step I'm doing it.
FREDDY: I'm doing it. Freddy puts the gun down. The Prostitute on the ground now scrambles to her feet and heads towards Steph.
PROSTITUTE: He's crazy! Fucking crazy! She gives Freddy the finger then heads off.
STEPH: ( to the prostitute ) ( to Freddy ) Down! Right now, down on the
FREDDY: I'm getting wet now. Low Angle on Steph approaching. Behind her a FIGURE is descending the wall behind him.
STEPH: Shut up! Steph is over Freddy now. He's staring up at her. He can see that a shape has appeared behind Steph. EDGAR, his eyes gleaming. Steph pulls out some handcuffs.
STEPH: ( continuing ) Put your hands behind your back.
FREDDY: Sure. Anything you say. But before Steph can move forward, Edgar has her gun hand in a vice-like grip. She cries out in pain as her wrist disintegrates. As a reflex she stamps on Edgar's foot and kicks him in the groin with her other. He does not flinch. He smashes Steph into a down pipe on the wall of the alley so that wet grit is ground into her face. We then see Edgar's face at her shoulder.
EDGAR: Nice to meet you again. Edgar pulls back the jacket at Steph's neck to find no scars. He pulls Steph's face towards him brutally, staring at her He then smashes her head against the pipe so that she falls unconscious to the ground.
FREDDY: What's wrong?
EDGAR: You brought me the wrong one.
FREDDY: Does it matter, one's as good as the next? Edgar's stare makes Freddy shut up and avert his eyes. Edgar then turns on the tube on his arm so that blood drips into the unconscious Steph's mouth; making her gag.
FREDDY: ( continuing ) You promised me some of that.
EDGAR: What do you see Freddy. Visions? Can you see your future? For a moment Edgar strokes Freddy's hair, then rips the tube Freddy moves forward, but is pushed back by Edgar.
FREDDY: Freddy moves forward, but is pushed back by Edgar.
EDGAR: Don't be a greedy little pig Freddy. You have to earn more. Close on Edgar, his repellent features under the hood. He looks up. Far above, through the falling rain, past the high- rise slum around them; we see the moon hanging like a pearly crescent in the sky. The moon is slowly obscured by clouds.
EDGAR: ( continuing ) We have more to do.
LILLY: Police. Put your hands where I can see them! The man now lurches forward, his hand rising towards Lilly, her finger begins to caress the trigger of her gun, as the man looms closer. And then he is gone. Cut to The man slamming against the wet wall of a building, grasping at the hands that now threaten to throttle him. And we see Silus, his hands on the man's throat, and for only the second time, we see anger in Silus' eyes. People in the street scatter as more Brothers emerge with guns pointed. And Lilly, shaking, pointing her gun at the man Silus is holding. On the ground, next to the man, she sees what he had in his hand. A pamphlet. Asking people to come to church service; a picture of a Brother priest serenely beaming out from it.
PARISHONER: Holy brother, please.
LILLY: Let him go.
LILLY: ( continuing ) He's harmless. Let him go.
PARISHONER: Forgive me. I've offended you.
SILUS: No. You are divine. It is the world that offends me.
LILLY: Brother Silus. What's going on?
JONES: ( off ) A shopkeeper heard yelling. Went to see, found this. One witness. A prostitute.
JONES: ( continuing ) She identified this lovely citizen. We thought maybe he had a grudge or was crazy. I guess we were wrong.
SILUS: It is Edgar.
LILLY: And now he's got Steph. Why does he want her?
SILUS: She is not what he was after.
LILLY: Steph was staying with me. She was wearing my coat. It was me he was after. Wasn't it?
SILUS: Yes. He will come for you Lilly.
JONES: Right, then we put you somewhere safe and set up this place. Shooters on the roofs. And when he comes we blow his fucking brains He will know. He will see and hear
SILUS: He will know. He will see and hear
LILLY: It has to be me. That's what he wants. It's the only chance Steph's got.
JONES: What are you talking about, she's probably dead already.
LILLY: Jones! And we can't make it too hard. He has to be able to get in. He can't suspect anything.
LILLY: ( continuing ) That's the way it will be. I'm the
STEPH: Help me. Please, I'm sick. Help me.
FREDDY: Don't fucking touch me.
FREDDY: His voice echoes through the empty space.
FREDDY: ( continuing ) Where've you gone now?
JONES: What are you doing?
LILLY: What is it? Jones?
SILUS: Stay here.
JONES: Get back here, Lilly! But Lilly shoves him off, opens the door and moves into the hall and waits.
LILLY: Cover me.
EDGAR: You saved me.
EDGAR: ( continuing ) When will you admit it. You're just like me.
EDGAR: ( continuing ) Maybe you need some encouragement.
LILLY: ( to Jones ) Get him down. Lilly, wait! Damn you. Lilly!
JONES: Lilly, wait! Damn you. Lilly! She turns and gives him a final quick look.
LILLY: If he escapes then Steph is dead. Just follow me when you can, hurry! Cut to
EDGAR: The little policewoman.
LILLY: Don't move! Edgar purposely raises his hand so that she fires; the bullet going through the flesh of Edgar's arm; his arm now smoking.
LILLY: ( continuing ) I said don't move. Where is she, where's the girl?
EDGAR: Oh, I've killed her already. Then he moves, she fires, but he's too fast, spinning, diving, in an instant he has the gun, twisting it and Lilly's arm behind her back. She fires, once, twice, the bullets and smoke rising up from Edgar's side. He twists harder, the gun then falling to the ground. Edgar is now behind her. He moves his face close to hers.
EDGAR: ( continuing ) Has he tasted you yet, little
EDGAR: ( continuing ) He's just the same as me, you know it, you can feel it too.
LILLY: He's nothing like you. Edgar's face twists into a smile.
EDGAR: We will see. You will be my tool.
JONES: You happy now?
FREDDY: You scared the shit out of me. Hey, the police woman. She's real sick. To tell the truth I don't feel so hot myself.
EDGAR: I want you to take her and put her where they'll find her.
FREDDY: But I'm sick. She's given me
EDGAR: What have I said to you?
EDGAR: ( continuing ) I hate arguments.
JONES: Stephanie Richards, you just brought her in.
NURSE: Thank god you're here.
JONES: Will she recover?
DOCTOR: No. Containment is the issue now. She is. insane. And we've had more cases, 10 in the last hour.
JONES: What is this? What is it?
SILUS: It comes from Edgar. He has shared his blood with them.
JONES: You're telling me that he's out there spreading this around?
JONES: ( continuing ) He'll give it to Lilly!
DOMINIC: Jones! Back off.
DOMINIC: ( continuing ) This is spreading.
DOMINIC: ( continuing ) Brother Silus?
JONES: That's it, Lilly's dead.
SILUS: No. He will keep her alive.
DOMINIC: So that I will come for him. That's what he wants. It says, "Everything flows from me. My blood will change the world." What does that mean?
SILUS: So that I will come for him. That's what he wants. It says, "Everything flows from me. My blood will change the world." What does that mean?
DOMINIC: It says, "Everything flows from me. My blood will change the world." What does that mean?
EDGAR: It almost sounds like children playing, don't you think?
LILLY: I looked at your body. You have borne a child.
EDGAR: I looked at your body. You have borne a child.
EDGAR: ( continuing ) Did you abandon it? Your kind are good at that.
LILLY: Why don't you just kill me?
LILLY: ( continuing ) Kill me!
EDGAR: I can see why he likes you. But I have a better use for you. To save you, Silus will take my blood. Join me.
LILLY: You're insane.
EDGAR: The world is insane. I am better than you. But they force me to serve you. Does that happen in a sane world? Forced to watch you waste the most precious thing you have. Life. Then Edgar's face changes; he stares at her with pity, for a moment we see a hint of the noble creature he used to be.
EDGAR: ( continuing ) Do you know what they do to us when we are born? They take us from our mothers. Force us into a life of loneliness, and denial. Can you imagine a life like that?
LILLY: You don't have to do this. You can change things. Edgar places his head in his hands, he seems to be weeping.
EDGAR: You have reminded me of something. When he looks back up at her, he is terrifying to behold.
EDGAR: ( continuing ) I must search out my mother, if she still lives. And kill her for what she did.
REPORTER: ( off ) Some say this plague is the result of genetic experimentation, by the Brothers. Do you have a comment?
HEALTH OFFICIAL: ( off ) We're asking everyone to stay in their homes in the sections of Jamestown now under quarantine.
REPORTER: ( off ) There are reports of residents being shot trying to escape the quarantine zone. Is that true? They say the Queen has left the city. Is this martial law?
SOLDIER: We've blocked off this section, and here, containing the Jamestown
EDGAR: ( off ) Do you like the world I am making for us, Silus? I haven't had your little policewoman yet. But I will soon. You'll just have to find me. You know where I am. Everything flows from me. Remember that.
AUGUSTUS: The infection is spreading. Each day he shares his blood with more of them. Even though they are locked in their homes.
SILUS: He is somewhere in the quarantine zone. I will find him. Augustus turns to Silus. Augustus moves closer to him, stares into Silus' strange, pale eyes.
AUGUSTUS: Clear. So very clear your eyes. The way they were when you were born. There will be no search. Augustus moves off to his desk. Silus is shocked.
SILUS: No search?
AUGUSTUS: The Queen has instructed the government to evacuate the city around the quarantine zone. In another day they will take action.
SILUS: What kind of action?
AUGUSTUS: Eradication. Of everything within the area. They will burn it all. Including Edgar.
SILUS: And the innocents there, who are not infected?
AUGUSTUS: It is a necessary step. We cannot let this escape.
SILUS: Augustus looks up at Silus; this is perhaps the first time Silus has refused anything that Augustus has decreed.
AUGUSTUS: Is it the policewoman? Is this affecting your thinking? There is no love for our kind Silus. Only We have done this. Released this thing into the world. We have betrayed their trust in us, more than once. I won't do it again.
SILUS: We have done this. Released this thing into the world. We have betrayed their trust in us, more than once. I won't do it again.
AUGUSTUS: There is no debate. They will be sacrificed, so the rest will be
AUGUSTUS: ( continuing ) This policeman, Jones. He talked to the press. Told them this came from Edgar.
AUGUSTUS: ( continuing ) There are members of the inner circle who question the way you have handled this. Blame you for this man's actions. I have made it clear that you will fix this. That you will silence him.
AUGUSTUS: ( continuing ) These are hard things we do. But you must think of the greater good. And of your own future.
JONES: Jones begins to stomp down the hall, towards the part of the hall that is lit. Then pop, that light goes out as well. Jones stops. He pulls out his big gun from his armpit holster. He checks over his shoulder, and then with the gun extended he moves slowly forward. He approaches an area that opens up a little. He pauses, then under his breath.
JONES: ( continuing ) Come on then.
JONES: What do you want?
SILUS: I want to help you. They know you talked to the press.
JONES: They can fuck off. For that matter, so can you.
JONES: ( continuing ) You'd be the last person I'd trust.
SILUS: I saw you. Remember. Watching Lilly, when she was asleep. Silus doesn't answer now. Jones moves forward.
JONES: I saw you. Remember. Watching Lilly, when she was asleep. Silus doesn't answer now. Jones moves forward.
JONES: ( continuing ) Maybe you're just like your Brother. Maybe you're helping him. Now there's a thought.
JONES: ( continuing ) Do you know where she is?
JONES: ( continuing ) You've changed. Not the outside. But inside. I know you. You know what, I can see myself?
JONES: ( continuing; sneering ) Coffee's ready.
EDGAR: ( off ) You know where I am. Everything flows from me.
SILUS: Do you have a map?
JONES: There's the quarantine zone. It's a pit. Slums.
SILUS: The water supply. Where is it?
JONES: There, all the old suburbs are supplied by their own artesian wells. Mineral springs. That's why it hasn't broken out of Jamestown, it's the water. Jamestown's water. He is there, with Lilly.
SILUS: He is there, with Lilly.
JONES: You'll never get in, they've circled the whole borough.
SILUS: I will get in. You must go to the press. Tell them about the water. Tell them what the government will You're dead after this. You know that? Whatever happens.
JONES: You're dead after this. You know that? Whatever happens.
SILUS: Watch for me, Officer Jones.
PRIEST 2: Who has done this, Brother?
SILUS: We have. To our shame.
PRIEST 2: I have something to show you.
PRIEST 2: It is a miracle my Brother. She is a female, the first of our kind.
SILUS: She must be protected.
SILUS: ( continuing ) I would ask for your help Brother. The Church can no longer be
EDGAR: He's coming little one. He's coming for you.
LILLY: She now looks above. The pipe her chains are connected to runs up towards the roof, then takes a bend to disappear into the wall near the door. She bangs on the pipe. There is a little movement where it goes into the wall. Just enough to give her some hope. Lilly struggles now to her feet. She slides the chains up. To get the chains over the bend she'll have to jump. She does, sliding the chain over the bend. Now she hangs from the pipe, the chains cutting into her wrists viciously, making her groan. She then gets her hands on the pipe and begins sliding along the pipe until she is near the door. She then reaches up with her feet and kicks at the wall, pushing, trying to dislodge the pipe. It moves, water leaks from it. But it does not give way. A desperate beat. Then she reaches down to the door with her foot. She tries to force down the door handle, her foot wet and slippery. Finally she gets the handle down, opens the door so that it clangs against the wall.
LILLY: ( continuing ) Hello! I'm down here. Silus.
SILUS: But when the woman turns it is not Lilly. It is one of the infected; the red eyes, mad and staring at him. And both he and the creature hear it. Cries, of someone in pain. Lilly. Cut to
EDGAR: It is a maze down here. But given time, that thing will find her. Do things to her. I'll show you where she is, if you take some.
EDGAR: ( continuing ) You're almost there anyway.
LILLY: Then the figure moves into the tunnel, shuffling, the legs not completely following the brains instructions, but doing enough to propel the person forward, then a stumble. And in a shaft of light Lilly can see a hand slapping at the wet wall. But it is less a hand than a claw. And the face that follows the hand; the red, reflective eyes of one of the half mad, the infected. The thing catches sight of Lilly, then propels itself towards her. We see it's POV, approaching faster, faster. And Lilly reaching out with her foot, to the door, struggling to hook it with her foot, trying to close it, almost catching the door handle, but her foot is so slippery and the thing is almost on her. Then she stretches out with her foot, just catching the door and slams it in the face of the thing that is about to attack her. The thing on the other side of the door is now screaming wildly and the door handle is jerking down as the creature tries to activate it and Lilly has her feet on it, trying desperately to keep the door shut, but her feet keep slipping. And then she realizes that the pipe from which she hangs is beginning to wobble - water is now coursing from the hole in the wall, beginning to flow faster and faster. Her feet slip more and more on the door. Lilly tries to keep the door closed, but her feet are too slippery and the thing is pushing through the door. In the dark space only its eyes and slavering mouth are clear, hands grasping for Lilly legs, scratching at them, Lilly twisting, the creature's nails searching for purchase on her legs. Lilly hauls herself up, wrapping her legs around the pipe she's attached to. The thing below her is groaning incoherently, reaching up, its hands grabbing at her, Lilly pulling herself just out of reach, then seeing the eyes below her, wanting her. Lilly tries to pull herself higher. And then she feels it. The pipe she's attached to is shifting, where it joins the wall. Water is now flooding from it, the pipe jerks down, some of the old wall giving way. The creature's fingers are now able to grasp Lilly's t-shirt, drag at it, pull at her, screaming, the pipe grinding, water flowing and then the whole thing comes down, the pipe bursting out of the wall. Lilly and the pipe falls, right on top of the creature. For a moment neither of them move, then the creature is grabbing at Lilly's hair, pulling her head back. In a flash Lilly pulls the pipe to which she is attached right into the face of the creature. This gives her time to stagger upright. She's still chained around the pipe; she can see the end of the pipe near the door.
EDGAR: If I burn the skin from your face, I wonder how that would be. If you looked like a monster. Cut to Edgar's finger moving over the steaming lever. The steaming end of the shaft right in Silus' face. Then Edgar's face as he watches his brothers face for the last time. The blasting sound of steam and a steaming blast from the shaft drifts into our frame. Cut to Silus. His face is not scolded.
LILLY: What is it?
SILUS: In there.
LILLY: Is there something wrong?
SILUS: He gently touches her mud smeared face.
SILUS: ( continuing ) There is something very precious. You must take it, keep it secret. Don't let them touch it.
LILLY: I don't understand.
SILUS: You will.
SILUS: ( continuing )
PRIEST 2: The first female of her kind. The first daughter given to us.
PRIEST 2: ( continuing ) Come. Before they find her.
PRIEST 2: We must go.
LILLY: ( VO )
LILLY: ( VO )
LILLY: ( VO ) Perhaps Edgar got what he wanted after all, because it time this child will truly change our world.
THE END: Writers : Glenn Standring
