THIRD DRAFT: Revised 1/6/91
GENVIEVE LEMARCHE: emerges around the bend. Mid-30s. Cultured beauty. Her dress and face are smeared with grime and. is that blood we see too? God only knows what's happened to her. Genvieve ducks under a monstrous cobweb as she passes an open LIGHTNING streaks across the night sky outside. We catch a glimpse of the MOON disappearing behind the clouds. Genvieve reaches the bottom of the stairs. The tomb itself. Water trickles in through cracks in the lichen-covered walls, pooling on the tomb floor. Genvieve moves forward, her lantern throwing distorted shadows over everything. In front of her is Anton LeMarche's stone sarcophagus. Genvieve kneels in the water, one hand resting on the spiked iron railing which surrounds the tomb. She reaches the other hand towards a scum-covered plaque, brushing the grime away. THUNDER and LIGHTNING reach a crescendo as. A SKELETAL HAND rises out of the water, reaching for her. Genvieve SCREAMS. The lantern falls from her grasp, sputtering out. The hand reaches for her arm and inadvertently clutches her breast instead. Genvieve starts to laugh hysterically.
WINDOW: LIGHTNING streaks across the night sky outside. We catch a glimpse of the MOON disappearing behind the clouds. Genvieve reaches the bottom of the stairs. The tomb itself. Water trickles in through cracks in the lichen-covered walls, pooling on the tomb floor. Genvieve moves forward, her lantern throwing distorted shadows over everything. In front of her is Anton LeMarche's stone sarcophagus. Genvieve kneels in the water, one hand resting on the spiked iron railing which surrounds the tomb. She reaches the other hand towards a scum-covered plaque, brushing the grime away. THUNDER and LIGHTNING reach a crescendo as. A SKELETAL HAND rises out of the water, reaching for her. Genvieve SCREAMS. The lantern falls from her grasp, sputtering out. The hand reaches for her arm and inadvertently clutches her breast instead. Genvieve starts to laugh hysterically.
GENVIEVE: I'm sorry. Suddenly it is lighter. Genvieve can't stop laughing. The groping monster hand disappears back beneath the water.
PUPPETEER: I can't see shit down there! I'm working blind!
RENEE: This is great, I could've spent four months on a romantic comedy with Warren Beatty, and instead, I've got a horny zombie trying to cop a feel! The crew members LAUGH. She's well-liked on the set. Renee grins. Wardrobe and make-up personnel move in to adjust Renee's Uhgh, there's water everywhere. Can I get a cigarette? The MAKE-UP GIRL pulls a pack of cigarettes from her fanny-pack and offers Renee one. In a flash, a P.A. appears with a lighter. Renee mumbles "thanks" as she fires up. She squints her eyes, trying to see past the set lights.
RENEE: Uhgh, there's water everywhere. Can I get a cigarette? The MAKE-UP GIRL pulls a pack of cigarettes from her fanny-pack and offers Renee one. In a flash, a P.A. appears with a lighter. Renee mumbles "thanks" as she fires up. She squints her eyes, trying to see past the set lights.
RENEE: ( calling out ) ( beat ) Anybody see my boy?
RENEE: How long have you been here?
GEOFF: Couple minutes. I saw the last shot. That was pretty cool. Renee grimaces as the make-up girl spritzes her face with a spray- How did it go with your father last night?
RENEE: ( casually ) How did it go with your father last night?
GEOFF: Good. He said he'd be over for dinner at eight. I mean. he misses you, Mom.
RENEE: I miss him too.
RENEE: ( continuing ) I just don't want you to get your hopes up, okay? We're trying to work things out, but. Her voice trails off.
GEOFF: I know, Mom.
RENEE: ( affectionate ) You know everything, don't you? Renee and Geoff are interrupted by a CREWMEMBER who's spraying "atmosphere" about the set with a hand-held smoke machine. Renee Off-set, the FIRST A.D. is trying to get the show on the road.
GEOFF: Guess it's showtime.
RENEE: Renee kisses Geoff on the forehead. He takes the cigarette from her and moves off the set, standing near the camera. The director turns back toward Renee.
DIRECTOR: Alright, Renee. Last time. I promise. We nail this and you won't have to do this ever again.
RENEE: That's what you said the first Renee turns and heads back toward the stairs. A P.A. hands her a new lantern. As she reaches the stairs, the house lights dim, creating the proper atmosphere once again.
OPERATOR: Rolling. Speed.
SLATE BOY: "Castle of Terror." Scene 69A. Take thirteen. The slate comes down.
DIRECTOR: The scene replays itself as before, only now we're watching the action from multiple viewpoints. We start on the video assist monitor, then move up to.
GEOFF: He grins as he watches the scene unfold.
ELECTRICIAN: Jesus! We've crossed over into 220! Shut down the generator!
RENEE: It's awful. She shakes, her SMOKING HANDS frozen to the iron railing by the electricity running through her. Suddenly, Renee falls forward against the iron. Her face begins to
ON GEOFF: As he witnesses the whole event. He tries to rush forward, but someone restrains him.
GEOFF: Suddenly all the circuits in the stage are blown and the LIGHTS GO OUT. Renee slumps back into the water, smoke trailing up from her still form. And we.
CHASE: I think this is probably for the best. He's a very old dog. He has arthritis. He has cataracts in his eyes. Chase looks at the mother. He's always hated this part.
CHASE: He's had a good life. .haven't you, boy?
INTERCOM: Doctor Matthews, your son is on line one. He says it's an Chase breaks concentration, pulling his eyes away from the mother and son.
GEOFF: Geoff moves forward, pulling away from the director. The police officer moves in and intercepts Geoff, turning the boy away. Geoff's eyes fix on the monitor. An unbending flatline.
GEOFF: You have to bring her back. Chase rushes onto the set, pushing past crewmembers. He freezes at the sight of the horrific commotion around Renee's still form.
CHASE: Oh Jesus. Chase's gaze connects with his son.
GEOFF: ( helpless ) We pull back from Geoff, Chase, and the commotion around Renee. Farther and farther as the darkness around the set begins to close ( urgent ) We're losing her. Darkness everywhere and we
THRU: 9G OMITTED EXT. A DREAMLIKE FOG A form drifts forward, materializing out of the fog. It's a CASKET. Appearing as if it's floating among the clouds. PULLING BACK, WE SEE that it's moving along A CONVEYOR. AND NOW, WE CAN make out the faint form of A PLANE as the conveyor descends from the cargo compartment. The casket reaches the end of the conveyor. A tag marks its final destination: Bangor, Maine. HANDS reach in and lift the casket. FOUR BAGGAGE HANDLERS hoist the casket up onto their shoulders and carry it off.
HANDLER #1: Is it true she grew up around Yeah. Over in Ludlow.
HANDLER #2: Yeah. Over in Ludlow.
HANDLER #1: Huh. Never met a movie star Well you're a little late for an The baggage handlers laugh as they walk off into the distance. The fog closes around them and we.
HANDLER #3: Well you're a little late for an The baggage handlers laugh as they walk off into the distance. The fog closes around them and we.
GUS: ( drawing near ) Let's keep it back, folks. Try to show her a little A REPORTER ducks under the media boundary, moving in for a closer He doesn't make it two steps before he's intercepted by Gus. Gus grabs the reporter and shoves him back.
GUS: Hey! What did I just say? Gus means business. One look into his eyes reveals his intense, no nonsense approach.
REPORTER: The reporter backs off.
GUS: Did she always have reporters following her around like this?
CHASE: Pretty much so. Gus glances at Geoff.
GUS: I hear you moved into town.
CHASE: I wanted to get Geoff out of L.A. Just start things over, you Gus nods. Now his eyes fall on Renee's headstone.
GUS: I remember when Renee left. She couldn't wait to get out of Ludlow. She used to say that life moved too slow here. Chase forces a smile.
CHASE: That's Renee alright.
GUS: I suppose so. The sky above seems heavy with imminent rain and we.
THRU: 15 OMITTED EXT. HOUSE - DAY Lazy oaks embrace a vintage, two-story Victorian home in the rural neighborhood of Ludlow, Maine. A commercial MOVING VAN is parked out front. Marjorie, the girl we saw at Renee's funeral, is coming down the sidewalk. She checks the address on the front of the house, then heads up the driveway.
CHASE: .Geoff, what if we just give the clothes to Goodwill? We'll keep the rest. Just the clothes. Geoff shakes his head, firm and deliberate denial.
GEOFF: You're the one who wanted to move. Nobody would've touched them if you didn't want to move here. Chase weakens, giving in.
CHASE: All the 'Renee' boxes go in the attic. Sorry. Marjorie KNOCKS on the open frame of the front door. Geoff recognizes her from his mother's funeral. She flashes him a warm smile.
MARJORIE: Hi. I'm Marjorie Hargrove. Your new housekeeper. Marjorie has a naive, friendly quality about her. She's also blessed with eye-popping genetics. Standing there outside the door, looking more than a little nervous. we can't help but like her. Needless to say, she doesn't look like your typical Is something wrong?
MARJORIE: ( re: Chase's reaction ) Is something wrong?
CHASE: Uh. no. You just. look different than you sounded on the phone. Please, come in. Marjorie enters. She grins at Geoff again. Yep. She's nervous I'm real excited about working for you Mr. Matthews.
MARJORIE: I'm real excited about working for you Mr. Matthews.
CHASE: Well we're glad to have you, Marjorie. You can call me Chase, by the way. Marjorie passes her curious eyes over one of Renee's garment I've always admired Ms. Hallow. That scene she did in Blue Midnight, where her lover meets her at the train station. I must've watched that movie four Chase smiles. Marjorie's enthusiasm is endearing. Just then, one of the movers loses his grip. A garment box bounces down the slope of the stairs. When it reaches the bottom, dresses spill over the floor.
MARJORIE: I've always admired Ms. Hallow. That scene she did in Blue Midnight, where her lover meets her at the train station. I must've watched that movie four Chase smiles. Marjorie's enthusiasm is endearing. Just then, one of the movers loses his grip. A garment box bounces down the slope of the stairs. When it reaches the bottom, dresses spill over the floor.
MARJORIE: Oh. I'll get that. Marjorie moves for the spill. The first dress she touches is a beaded peach evening gown. Her fingers linger on the fabric.
MARJORIE: This is gorgeous. She wore this at the Emmys, didn't she? Geoff moves forward, acting overly defensive.
GEOFF: Hey, don't touch her stuff. It made her crazy when people touched her stuff. Marjorie is taken aback by the oddity of Geoff's statement. Chase catches her eye, shrugging apologetically.
THRU: 19 OMITTED EXT. DRIVEWAY - DAY A VAN is parked outside. The rear side panel is masked off with tape and a stencil. Chase grabs the corner of the tape and carefully peels it back, revealing a crisp, new business logo:
CHASE: This doesn't look so bad. Chase sweeps a curtain aside, revealing the interior to Geoff. Dust swirls in the air.
GEOFF: How long ago did this guy retire?
CHASE: It's been a few years. Geoff takes a look around, growing uncomfortable.
GEOFF: ( skeptical ) A few? Geoff moves on down the central corridor which seems to grow darker and more dismal with every step. He moves on into the boarding room.
CHASE: What's wrong?!
GEOFF: ( embarrassed ) Nothing. I just got spooked by a bunch of furballs. Inside the box is a note. Chase reaches for it. It reads: "And a warm welcome to you."
CHASE: Great, now I've opened an orphanage too. One of the kittens pads out of the box and looks up at Geoff with sleepy eyes. Her fur is striped.
GEOFF: Well, I'll take one. If it's Geoff lifts the fragile creature, cradling it in his arms.
GEOFF: She looks like a tiger. Chase spies an old broom resting in the corner.
CHASE: Tell you what, you do some sweeping up here, and she's yours. Geoff nods and Chase moves back out into the hallway. Geoff sets the box back upright and lowers Tiger in with the other kittens. He reaches for the broom and goes to work sweeping away the cobwebs. Just as soon as he turns his back, Tiger climbs the side of the box, spilling over onto the floor.
DREW: Sorry. He gets kinda hyper. Drew's stepfather, Gus Gilbert, enters. The dreaded, domineering voice of authority in Drew's life. WE know him as the sheriff at Renee's funeral.
GUS: Hell, he thought it was lunch. How ya doin', Chase? You haven't met my boy. Drew, where the hell are your Drew steps forward and awkwardly offers his hand to Chase. Then Geoff. The boys shake.
GEOFF: He's a cool lookin' dog. Zowie lurches forward, eager to shower affection on Geoff. Geoff strokes the dog's soft mane.
GEOFF: What's his name?
DREW: Drew puts his palm under Zowie's chin and turns him for Chase to see. There are several scabbed-over gashes on his left cheek.
GUS: Damn dog stuck his nose in on my rabbits and they ganged up on him. I swear that dog's an idiot.
DREW: Is he gonna be okay? With one eye on Zowie, Chase sprays some antiseptic on the examination table and wipes it clean.
CHASE: Let's have him hop up here. Drew prods Zowie. Zowie jumps up onto the table. Chase looks over the facial lacerations, then turns on a penlight and examines the dog's eyes. Gus passes a lingering look over Tiger. He reaches in to pet her, making sure it meets with Geoff's approval.
GUS: When I was young I thought cats were the girls and dogs were the There are three more girls where that one came from looking for Drew perks up at the thought, but Gus shoots it down.
CHASE: There are three more girls where that one came from looking for Drew perks up at the thought, but Gus shoots it down.
GUS: Not our home. Chase takes the light out of Zowie's eyes. He looks to Gus.
CHASE: Thee facial lacerations should heal up pretty quickly. I'll give you som antibiotic cream
GUS: Drew, he's your dog. Are you listening to this? Chase turns to Drew and continues.
CHASE: His left eye is scratched, corneal abrasion. Eyedrops will help, but it's going to take som time. Try to keep him away from those rabbits, huh? Drew nods, casting a glance aside at Gus.
GUS: ( to Chase ) I hear you've got Marjorie Hargrove working for you now.
CHASE: How'd you know that? Gus gives Chase a knowing grin.
GUS: It's a small town, Chase. Gus laughs and claps Chase on the shoulder.
GUS: Hey Geoff, did you know your mother and I used to be high- school sweethearts? Geoff is surprised at this. Surprised and annoyed. Tact isn't a quality that Gus possesses in abundance.
GEOFF: ( nodding ) Homecoming. Prom. Whole nine ( to Chase ) Course that was a lifetime ago.
GUS: ( nodding ) Homecoming. Prom. Whole nine ( to Chase ) Course that was a lifetime ago.
CHASE: What's a lunch cost these days? You want ten?
GEOFF: ( unenthused ) Chase looks at his son.
CHASE: You nervous? New town, new school. I know it must be pretty hard for you.
GEOFF: ( cutting him off ) I'll be fine, Dad. Geoff reaches for the door, but Chase stops him. He's trying to reach his son. He really is.
CHASE: ( awkward ) Geoff. you have to help me out here a little. "MEOW!" Chase drops his eyes to the bulge squirming around in Geoff's jacket. He can't help but smile.
CHASE: Are you sure you don't want me to pick you up. It's a long ride. Geoff opens the side panel of the van and slips out his MOUNTAIN
GEOFF: That's what my bike's for. Before Chase can say another word, Geoff is gone.
PRICELESS KITTENS: FREE TO A GOOD HOME EXT. SCHOOL - DAY Drew is among a small circle of BOYS. He recognizes Geoff walking his bike from the van. The largest of the boys, CLYDE, takes notice of the unfamiliar face. Clyde is fifteen, going on twenty. You know the type: local bully, held back a year or two.
CLYDE: Check it out. That's the new kid. The son of that movie star. Mischief gleams in Clyde's eyes as he watches Geoff's every move. The other boys follow suit. Clyde always takes the lead. Geoff fields their penetrating stares. For a second his eyes connect with Clyde's, then he moves on into the building. Among the boys, Drew is the reluctant participant.
MRS. GORDON: People, this is Geoff Matthews. He'll be joining our class for the rest of the school year. As Mrs. Gordon points to him, Geoff drops his face even lower. This is the worst embarrassment a boy could ever suffer. He'd like to throttle Mrs. Gordon. A freckle-faced boy, DOUG, fires off a question.
DOUG: Hey, what's Hollywood like? Do you know Eddie Murphy?
GEOFF: ( annoyed ) Why don't we save that for later, A girl with braces, SUSAN, continues the interrogation.
MRS. GORDON: Why don't we save that for later, A girl with braces, SUSAN, continues the interrogation.
SUSAN: What about Julia Roberts?
MRS. GORDON: Susan! That'll be enough. Susan shuts up. Geoff sinks even lower in his seat. The kids turn their eyes back to the front of the room. But one classmate's eyes are still on Geoff. It's Clyde. Clyde shifts his stare to the squirming lump in Geoff's jacket. He catches a glimpse of Tiger's bobbing nose popping out.
CLYDE: What's the hurry, Junior? Where you off to? Clyde quickens his pace, pulling ahead of Geoff and stopping in front of him. Stevie and Brad move in on either side. Surrounded by peers, it's apparent how small Geoff is for his age. On the wall next to them is a bulletin board display. Clyde glances at it. Geoff follows his gaze.
DISPLAY: It's one of those corny school affairs with construction paper letters spelling out: "WE REMEMBER RENEE HALLOW." Beneath that are pictures of Renee clipped from various magazines. Cloyingly Geoff nods. Clyde raises his eyebrows, pulling Geoff's jacket
CLYDE: ( feigning remorse ) Too bad about your Mom. Papers said it was pretty gross, getting fried like that. Guess you saw it, huh? Geoff nods. Clyde raises his eyebrows, pulling Geoff's jacket So, what are you hiding there?
CLYDE: So, what are you hiding there?
STEVIE: When you bring a friend to school you're supposed to introduce him. Geoff's arm tightens protectively around Tiger.
GEOFF: Her name's Tiger.
CLYDE: Tiger? Don't you think that's kind of a pussy name? Can I hold her? I promise I'll be real careful. Clyde has a convincing way about him. Geoff reluctantly hands the kitten over. Clyde is so gentle with the creature that one would never question his sincerity. Geoff is just beginning to feel at ease when something changes in Clyde's tone, something sinister.
CLYDE: Hey, Geoff. You ever seen a kitten run?
GEOFF: I've seen her run around the Clyde's eyes narrow. He takes a couple of steps back. Geoff's heart starts to sink.
CLYDE: No, I mean really run. Like this! Clyde backsteps and bolts off down the hallway with Tiger. Brad and Stevie fall in behind him, laughing. Drew shrugs apologetically. He's torn, but he tears off after them Geoff runs off in pursuit of them.
GEOFF: Geoff runs off in pursuit of them.
CLYDE: Having fun yet? Clyde and his smirking buddies ride on, OUT OF FRAME.
WITH GEOFF: giving the pedals all he can, struggling to keep pace with the 35 OMITTED FURTHER ALONG Scattered houses sprinkle the landscape ahead. Cochran Lake stretches into the distance beyond the housing. Clyde's clan cuts from the road and blazes a trail across a residential property. The two-story house is weathered and boarded up. It looks vaguely familiar. Creepy. And when WE FIND the mailbox post, we know why. The name is faded, but there's no question who once lived there. Five bold letters:
FURTHER ALONG: Scattered houses sprinkle the landscape ahead. Cochran Lake stretches into the distance beyond the housing. Clyde's clan cuts from the road and blazes a trail across a residential property. The two-story house is weathered and boarded up. It looks vaguely familiar. Creepy. And when WE FIND the mailbox post, we know why. The name is faded, but there's no question who once lived there. Five bold letters:
"CREED.": Geoff whips by in a blur, still in pursuit.
GEOFF: Just give me the cat, all right? A devilish grin creeps over Clyde. He strolls down the path toward Geoff. Clyde grabs Geoff's handlebars and, backing up, pulls Geoff and the bike with him.
CLYDE: I would but. there was a little She was trying to get away. You know, running down my leg. and her head got too close to the spokes. Pretty gross. What's left of her is up in the Pet Sematary. A zip-lock bag might .but I happen to be out of them at the moment. Drew shakes his head, disgusted he has to put up with Clyde's Come on, Clyde, just tell him where the cat is.
DREW: Come on, Clyde, just tell him where the cat is.
CLYDE: ( turning on Drew ) .I TOLD HIM where the cat is! Now shut up, fuck-face! Clyde punches Drew in the arm. Drew shrinks back. Geoff flashes a hateful stare at Clyde. All of the boys but Clyde are uncomfortably silent. There's something frightening about Clyde. something that extends beyond the standard bully antics. We begin to get the feeling that this kid is genuinely deranged.
CLYDE: ( relishing the moment ) You heard about the Creed murders yet? And the place where the dead come back to life? He motions to the path behind him.
CLYDE: ( continuing ) It's just back there. Just down that path.
DREW: ( meekly ) Clyde. it's not funny anymore.
CLYDE: Oh? So you got a problem? What're you gonna do, fat-ass? You gonna sic big, bad, old Gus after Drew shuts up. Clyde turns back to Geoff, drawing closer.
CLYDE: What do you think, Geoff? Maybe you could dig up your Mom and take her back there. Maybe if you pray real hard, she'll come back. With this last remark Clyde has pushed too far. Geoff's face is red with anger.
GEOFF: ( quietly ) Just give me the cat, ass-hole. Clyde's grin falters a moment.
CLYDE: Excuse me, maybe I'm a little hard of hearing. but did you just call me an ass-hole? Clyde pokes Geoff in the shoulder.
CLYDE: You mad, Geoff? Cause if you are, you should take a shot at me. This time Clyde shoves Geoff back even harder.
CLYDE: Come on, you pussy! What's the matter with you? Clyde moves forward again and Geoff suddenly LASHES OUT, catching everyone off guard. For an instant, Drew marvels at Geoff's tenacity. Clyde LUNGES. He hammers Geoff with blows. Outsizing him by forty pounds, Clyde tosses Geoff to the ground. Geoff struggles, but Clyde's grip proves arresting. Clyde throws Geoff onto his stomach, forcing his face into the dirt. It looks as if he's ready to smother his opponent. Drew is the first to rush in. Brad and Stevie quickly follow. It takes all three of them to peel Clyde off Geoff. Clyde gets to his feet and backs away. There's great pleasure in his crazed eyes as he watches Geoff coughing and gasping.
CLYDE: Fuckin' ass-hole. Satisfied he's handed out enough ill will for the day, Clyde turns Drew's attentions remain on Geoff. As Clyde strolls by, he grabs Drew's arm and swings him around.
CLYDE: This way, fat-boy. Stevie and Brad follow. As the group passes Geoff's bike, Clyde gives it a kick, knocking it over. Then they're gone. Geoff pulls himself to his feet. Brushing off the mess, he heads up the path in search of Tiger.
DREW: I've never seen anybody punch Clyde before.
GEOFF: ( shrugs ) He pissed me off.
DREW: ( his smile fading ) Sorry about your mom. ( beat ) I couldn't handle not having my mom around. Just having Gus. He grimaces at the thought.
GEOFF: My dad's not so bad. Drew glances around at all the makeshift grave markers.
DREW: I swear, sometimes I wish Gus was You shouldn't ever say that about your parents, not even your Dad.
GEOFF: ( serious ) You shouldn't ever say that about your parents, not even your Dad.
DREW: Stepdad. Gus is my stepdad. Geoff nods knowingly.
GEOFF: What was all that stuff about dead people coming back to life?
DREW: Nothing. It's just an old ghost story. Let's get out of here. They head off, full of childhood.
CHASE: ( calling after him ) Hey! How was your first day at ( over his shoulder ) It sucked.
GEOFF: ( over his shoulder ) It sucked.
MARJORIE: Now is that any way to talk to your father? Geoff stops for a moment, turns.
GEOFF: You're not my mother. .and exits through the opposite door. Chase looks to Marjorie and offers a sympathetic shrug.
CHASE: EXT. DREW'S HOUSE - DUSK CRUDE CAGES HOUSE DOZENS OF RABBITS. Situated alongside the garage. A sign above the cages reads: PET RABBITS - $10.00. Bells positioned along the roof threaten to reveal foul play. Gus is rigging a wire along the base of the cage. Finishing it off, he hangs the plug next to an outside socket. Moving onto the next chore, he pours pressed alfalfa pellets into feeding slots for the hungry rabbits. Setting the feed aside, he takes a seat. Opening one of the cages, he grabs a rabbit and sets it on his lap, gently petting its soft One of the cages starts to vibrate. Gus gives it a look: A PAIR OF RABBITS aren't interested in eating, they're joined in fast and furious passion. Gus gets a chuckle out of the sight.
GUS: Way to go, Romeo. Gus replaces the rabbit in the hutch. And before he goes, HE SINKS THE PLUG INTO THE SOCKET. An ELECTRICAL CHARGE dances along the base of the cage, a deterrent for intruders.
GUS: Drew, I don't remember inviting Zowie in for dinner.
DREW: Just until he heals up? Gus is waggling his thumb toward the back door. Drew slumps in defeat. Gus reaches into the cabinet and pours himself a Bourbon.
AMANDA: Gus, please. At the back door, Drew is watching from beyond the screen, disgusted by the sight of Gus pawing his mother. Drew swings the door open as loud as he can to signal his return. Gus plants a last kiss on the back of Amanda's neck and backs off. But before he goes, he snatches a chunk of meat from the serving platter. Leveling his leering eyes at Amanda, he stuffs it into his mouth suggestively.
GUS: God damn, you're good. Drew rolls his eyes and takes his seat at the table, returning his attention to the TV, where another MUSIC VIDEO is on. Gus glances at the TV, annoyed by the MUSIC. He drops into his spot at the head of the table, blocking Drew's view. Drew leans to the side for a better look. Gus takes notice and leans to the same side to obstruct his view.
GUS: You're breaking the law here, Really, Gus. It won't bother me. Gus ignores her, inching forward with a confidential, harsh Your mom's spent the last hour cooking. Stop being a little jerk and show her some appreciation. Drew aims the remote control at Gus, as if to shut him up, and silences the TV. Amanda approaches with the roast. The moment it's on the table, Drew starts dishing up a hefty serving. Gus spears Drew's fork with the serving fork.
AMANDA: Really, Gus. It won't bother me. Gus ignores her, inching forward with a confidential, harsh Your mom's spent the last hour cooking. Stop being a little jerk and show her some appreciation. Drew aims the remote control at Gus, as if to shut him up, and silences the TV. Amanda approaches with the roast. The moment it's on the table, Drew starts dishing up a hefty serving. Gus spears Drew's fork with the serving fork.
GUS: Your mom's spent the last hour cooking. Stop being a little jerk and show her some appreciation. Drew aims the remote control at Gus, as if to shut him up, and silences the TV. Amanda approaches with the roast. The moment it's on the table, Drew starts dishing up a hefty serving. Gus spears Drew's fork with the serving fork.
GUS: Not that much appreciation. I thought we were gonna tone down that flabby ass.
DREW: Hey, I'm so sorry I'm not the stud that you are.
AMANDA: Knock it off, guys. Gus throws back a sip of Bourbon.
GUS: ( to Drew, quietly ) You watch that mouth of yours, Drew buddy.
GUS: Damn it, Drew. That dog is Amanda stirs, groggily focusing on Gus' departing figure.
DREW: Don't shoot him! Gus' eyes are wild with anger.
GUS: What, Drew? What did you say?! Gus throws Drew aside, brings the rifle back up and FIRES another random shot after the fleeing dog. All the while, his eyes remain on Drew, as if this were the boy's lesson to be learned. He squeezes off one more SHOT. A PAINED YELP echoes from the hillside. Zowie's yelp. Drew whips his head aside in sickened shock. Even Gus is sobered by the unexpected hit. All they can hear now are Zowie's WHIMPERING CRIES diminishing in the night. Drew shoots Gus a look of such unbridled hatred that Gus is speechless. He backs away from Gus and darts off toward the dark When Gus turns back for the house, Amanda is standing there.
AMANDA: Jesus, Gus, what have you done?
GUS: Ah, come on, Amanda, stop looking at me like that. He's had ample warning about that dog. Amanda glares at him, an outpouring of pent-up strain. Gus defiantly marches past Amanda, entering the house without ever meeting eyes with her.
DREW: comes upon a break in the trees. The hanging moon outlines the knoll stretching beyond. And then, the strained breathing, the hushed WHIMPER. Drew hesitantly approaches the crest of the knoll. Zowie is just beyond, lying on his side at the end of the bloody trail. His chest rises and falls almost imperceptibly with every effort to survive. Drew drops to his knees at Zowie's side and cradles the dog in his lap, shaking his head in denial. Zowie's weak eyes shift, gazing longingly at Drew. Drew strokes the fur under Zowie's chin, hardly able to see the dog through his glaze of tears. Zowie's eyes drift off. His chest falls and doesn't rise again. He falls limp in Drew's arms. Drew hugs Zowie even tighter and he begins to weep.
GEOFF: I was just going by your house. Where's your bike? The closer Geoff gets, the more he sees of Drew's despair. Then he sees the dried blood staining Drew's clothes.
DREW: Zowie's dead. Geoff's heart sinks. An unspoken moment of sympathy passes between the boys. Fighting the emotions, Drew finally speaks.
DREW: I have to bury him. I don't want to go out there alone. There's such grief in Drew's words that Geoff can't resist. He glances toward his house to make sure he hasn't been seen, then blends into the woods.
GEOFF: Is this a good spot?
DREW: I'm not burying him here.
GEOFF: Why not?
DREW: There's a better place. Drew heads for the base of the deadfall, with Zowie in his arms.
DREW: It's back here somewhere, through the Indian woods. I know we can find it. Drew continues up the deadfall, disappearing over the crest. Geoff gathers up the shovel and pickaxe and follows after him.
GEOFF: Hey, wait up!
GEOFF: ( uneasy ) Drew, where are we going? Drew doesn't respond. He continues on without another word, hell- bent on finding this "better place."
DREW: This is it. I wasn't sure if it even really existed.
GEOFF: What did?
DREW: The old Indian burial ground. Geoff's eyes move to the stairway of stones.
GEOFF: Come on, that's just a bullshit story. You said so yourself.
DREW: What if it's not bullshit? If I bury Zowie there, and it works. .he'll come back alive.
GEOFF: Drew, I know your dog died, but. get a grip, man, you're freaking me out.
DREW: Look, if there was even one chance in a million it'd work, wouldn't you want to try? Geoff feels for Drew. It's pointless to reason. Drew starts up the stone steps. Geoff has no choice but to follow.
GEOFF: Look, let's just get this over Even Drew seems to have awakened from the haze he had fallen into. He gently sets Zowie's body on the ground.
DREW: If this doesn't work. don't ever tell anyone I did this, okay? You gotta promise. Geoff nods and hands over the digging tools. Drew swings the pickaxe, sinking it into the ground.
GEOFF: You want me to help?
DREW: You have to bury your own. That's the way the Indians did it. It's like a rule. Backing away from the burial ground, Geoff takes a seat on a rock at the border of the forest. From there, he watches. Drew alternates the pickaxe and shovel as he clears a hole in the rocky ground. WE MOVE IN ON GEOFF, who's looking on with skeptical intrigue as the rhythmic SOUND of the tools continues.
DREW: What if he really does come back? Geoff shrugs, pondering such a thought. Geoff digs into his pocket and produces a pack of gum, offering one to Drew. With only a quick glance away from the grave, Drew snatches a piece and he stuffs it into his mouth. Geoff does the They sit together in silence. Nervously chewing their gum. Watching the grave.
DREW: I've never had anyone die .but I guess you get over it. I mean, eventually.
GEOFF: ( quietly ) You never get over it.
GEOFF: It's getting pretty late. We better go.
DREW: ( disappointed ) They rise, leaving the burial ground. En route, Drew pauses for a last look at the grave.
DREW: So long, Zowie. Geoff follows, glancing back at the burial ground. It looks magical in the twilight, not quite so sinister now.
GUS: Get in. Drew takes a step back, shaking his head.
GUS: Your momma's worried sick over you. You take off in the middle of the night, you don't show up for school. What're you trying to I'm not trying to prove anything. I was burying my dog. Gus turns his eyes away, focusing on the dark road ahead.
DREW: I'm not trying to prove anything. I was burying my dog. Gus turns his eyes away, focusing on the dark road ahead.
GUS: Life is full of lessons. No one's above it. Not you. Not me. Now get in the car. After a moment, Drew approaches the car. Without another word, Gus drives off.
AMANDA: Amanda looks down and SCREAMS.
DREW: What did I do now?
AMANDA: Open the door, Drew. Drew unlatches the deadbolts and steps back as Gus bursts through the door.
GUS: Where do you come off lying like that? "I'm burying my dog." You think a lie like that's never gonna catch up to you? Drew backs into the bed, taking a seat. Amanda comes through the door, and behind her is.
ZOWIE: This is our first glimpse of the resurrected dog. Fur shiny and wet, the gaping gunshot wound in his rear. Zowie's head hangs low, his eyes GLEAMING RED. The husky is covered with dirt from head to Drew's eyes widen in astonishment. Zowie staggers across the room towards Drew, nails clicking on the floorboards. Drew shrinks back in uncertain horror as the dog moves closer. Zowie absently throws his arms up onto the bed, across Drew's lap. And slowly, perfunctory, his tongue licks Drew's cheek. This last action of Zowie displaces Drew's fear. Tears well up in the boy's Drew lifts his hand from stroking Zowie's fur. His palm is covered with muddy blood.
DREW: ( a whisper ) Say your goodbyes. Zowie's going outside. You're grounded, buddy. That's the new law. Drew lifts his hand from stroking Zowie's fur. His palm is covered with muddy blood.
GUS: Say your goodbyes. Zowie's going outside. You're grounded, buddy. That's the new law. Drew lifts his hand from stroking Zowie's fur. His palm is covered with muddy blood.
AMANDA: I never knew an open wound could smell so bad. Honey, he should have been looked at this morning. I don't know what you were thinking. It's a wonder he's still alive. Drew gazes into the dog's vacant eyes. It truly is a wonder.
CHASE: ( gently ) Geoff doesn't respond. He's captivated by Renee. Chase moves into the room.
CHASE: Geoff PAUSES the tape. Renee freezes, the image flickering ever so slightly. For an instant, we think we see a FLASH OF Renee being electrocuted. But it's only an instant. Finally, Geoff tears his eyes away from the screen, resenting his father's intrusion.
GEOFF: You alright? Geoff's face softens. He nods.
CHASE: You alright? Geoff's face softens. He nods.
GEOFF: Dad. do you think. .you think you and Mom would've gotten back together? Chase draws closer. He takes a seat next to Geoff. The pain in his son's eyes is almost more than he can stand.
CHASE: I think so.
CHASE: ( continuing ) Your Mom and I loved each other, Geoff. Don't ever think that we I still can't believe she's Chase moves to reach for his son, and suddenly the phone RINGS, shattering the moment. Chase hesitates, but finally he rises and answers the phone. After a moment, he returns.
GEOFF: I still can't believe she's Chase moves to reach for his son, and suddenly the phone RINGS, shattering the moment. Chase hesitates, but finally he rises and answers the phone. After a moment, he returns.
GEOFF: Who was that?
CHASE: Remember Zowie, Drew's dog? He got hurt again. I'm going over to take a look at him. Geoff's eyes widen. He looks like a ghost walked over his grave.
GEOFF: I'm going with you. Chase nods and exits to get his coat. Geoff looks back at the TV once more. The image paused. Renee staring at us from beyond the grave.
CHASE: How'd it happen? Gus casts a threatening glance in Drew's direction.
DREW: ( glaring at Gus ) Some psycho hunter probably got trigger happy. Chase is too busy preparing a syringe to notice the nonverbal I'm going to give Zowie a local anaesthetic so I can clean up the wound. I'd like to take him home tonight for observation.
CHASE: I'm going to give Zowie a local anaesthetic so I can clean up the wound. I'd like to take him home tonight for observation.
AMANDA: Can you keep him at your place until he gets better?
DREW: Can you keep him at your place until he gets better?
CHASE: Drew tenderly strokes Zowie's mane as Chase administers the injection. Zowie stares up at Geoff with dull, blank eyes. Drew reads Geoff's bewilderment and joins him outside the van. Their words are clear, but whispered.
GEOFF: Maybe he wasn't dead when we buried him.
DREW: He was dead. You know he was. Geoff returns his stare to Zowie.
DREW: You can't tell anyone, Geoff. Geoff looks into Drew's eyes and nods in understanding.
THRU: 75 OMITTED INT. GEOFF'S BEDROOM - NIGHT Tiger is curled up at the foot of Geoff's bed. Geoff climbs in, careful not to disturb the kitten. As he lays his head back on the It's a woman's VOICE. A familiar one. Now we hear the rhythmic CREAK of a rocking chair. And with it comes the voice again, humming a HAUNTING LULLABY. Wide-eyed, Geoff turns his head toward the source. A WOMAN'S NONDESCRIPT FORM is seated in the rocking chair across the room. Rocking forward, her face passes into a swath of It's Renee. With the rock of the chair, her face recedes back into the shadows. Her soothing HUM remains. And again, her face passes into the swath of light. And again it Geoff raises his hand, reaching out for her. Renee's hand rises from the shadows, reaching for him. But suddenly, THE ROOM BEGINS TO STRETCH. The rocking chair and the bed seem distanced like polar extremes, mother and son hopelessly separated by forces beyond their LIGHTNING FLASHES in the bedside window. Renee is falling farther and farther away.
GEOFF: Geoff leaps from his bed as the darkness closes in and.
GEOFF: bolts up from his pillow. Awake now, face wet with perspiration. It was a nightmare. Except, if it was a nightmare, why do we still .the steady CREAK of the rocking chair. Geoff slowly turns his head once again, repeating the actions of his dreams. In the shadows, the chair is still rocking. As it comes forward into the moonlight, we see ZOWIE, curled up asleep on the seat of the chair. Tiger is not on the bed anymore. She's up on top of the bookcase now, wide awake, eyes fixed on the dog. She HISSES. Geoff stares at the rocking chair, petrified.
DREW: What's the deal?
CHASE: I don't know. He's had three days. His immune system should've responded by now. Chase puts on his stethoscope and checks under the dog's rib-cage for a pulse. He checks a number of places, then shakes his head, totally confused.
CHASE: I can't seem to find a pulse. it must be so weak, it's not Geoff and Drew share conspiratorial glances as Chase sets the stethoscope aside and extracts a blood sample. Chase labels the capped vial of blood "ZOWIE" and carefully places it into a packing container. When he closes the lid, we see the preaddressed label:
GEOFF: We'll take him back to the kennels, Dad.
GEOFF: You think my Dad'll figure out why he's not getting better?
DREW: You think he'd believe it if he One of the kittens SPATS fearfully at Zowie. Geoff turns to stare at Zowie.
GEOFF: How can he not have a heartbeat?
DREW: ( worried ) Maybe it takes a while. Drew lifts Zowie into the kennel. Geoff secures the door, something that clearly must be done from the outside. Zowie immediately begins to pace back and forth inside the cage. He turns towards us and we.
MARJORIE: So who're you going as, Wayne For effect, Geoff slips the hockey mask down over his face before I'm going as Jason.
GEOFF: I'm going as Jason.
MARJORIE: Jason? Who's he play for?
GEOFF: He doesn't. He hacks people up. Geoff checks his watch.
GEOFF: I'm late. As Geoff heads for the door, Chase is just coming in for the Hey! Where're you off to?
CHASE: Hey! Where're you off to?
GEOFF: I'm going out, Dad! Geoff ducks out the door. Chase turns to Marjorie.
CHASE: He's probably going up to the Pet Sematary. Kids've been going out there on Halloween night for What do they do up there?
MARJORIE: He's probably going up to the Pet Sematary. Kids've been going out there on Halloween night for What do they do up there?
CHASE: What do they do up there?
MARJORIE: Oh, you know. drink beer, tell ghost stories. They try and spook each other out, talking about zombies and things. It's no big deal, Chase. I did it when I was young.
AMANDA: Hold still. Hold still. Amanda puts the finishing touches of color on Drew's lips. She's done an alarmingly good job of turning Drew into THE JOKER.
AMANDA: You make sure you're home by ten. If Gus finds out I let you go.
DREW: ( sighs ) I'll be home, Mom. Don't worry. I won't let Gus blow up again. Amanda looks Drew straight in the eyes.
AMANDA: Drew, I know Gus isn't your father, but you never even knew your real father. He walked out on the both of us, and you remember that. Gus isn't that way. He has it in him to love us both. You just have to give him a chance. Drew nods respectfully. Amanda gives him a kiss. Drawing back, she rubs out the lipmarks she's left on his made-up cheek.
CLYDE: Look at this, Junior here practically shit his pants. Clyde drops down, nose to nose with Geoff, who's still recovering.
CLYDE: Maybe you're too chicken to hang out with the rest of the boys. You gonna run home to Daddy now? Geoff brushes himself off and rises to his feet. He stares into Clyde's eyes.
GEOFF: Fuck off. Geoff pushes past Clyde and moves on into the graveyard, somehow managing to keep his dignity intact. Drew follows, then the rest of the boys, leaving Clyde staring after them, standing alone with the dummy.
AMANDA: You're home early.
GUS: Nope. Just ran out of smokes. Gus opens a kitchen drawer and fishes for a pack of cigarettes. He fires one up.
GUS: Where's the boy? Amanda squirms.
AMANDA: Uh. in his room. Gus tightens his brow, casting a suspicious eye. A sickened look flushes through Amanda as Gus pulls his eyes away from her and marches upstairs.
DREW!: His feet POUND down the hallway. Silence for an instant. Then the powerful swing of Drew's door. Followed by Gus' hastened return down the hallway. And as he hustles down the stairs.
GUS: God damn it, Amanda! You want me to be a father to the boy, and as soon as I lay down the law, you let him break it! Gus stops before Amanda.
GUS: Where is he? One step away from terror, Amanda shakes her head. Gus loses his patience. He rips the can of beer from her grip and sends it flying across the room.
GUS: WHERE IS YOUR SON!? Amanda sighs in quiet defeat.
AMANDA: The Pet Sematary. Gus turns away and heads out the door.
CLYDE: .yeah, that old Louis was one sick fuck. digging up little Gage like so, maggots pouring out of that kid's eyes. Clyde whistles. He drags on his cigarette and puffs out a smoke ring. Sees he still has an audience.
CLYDE: Ellie was the only Creed that lived. Then one night a few months later, Ellie freaks out, and she hacks up her grandparents with an axe! Police found her licking their brains off the blade. They locked her up in a psycho ward and all she said were two words: 'Pet Sematary. Pet Sematary.' Clyde stares at the wide-eyed kids. He grins, takes a swig of beer, and moves in for the kicker.
CLYDE: Oh yeah! Almost forgot! Here's the best part. Two nights ago she escapes. Word is, she was heading for Maine. Man I hope she doesn't show up out here. Shit, we wouldn't even notice her, not if she's wearing a costume. She could be one of us. Clyde casts a suspicious eye on the group. The kids uneasily look at each other, making sure they know who's behind each and every Suddenly Clyde drops his jaw in exaggerated horror.
CLYDE: Oh my Goddd!!! Clyde lifts a trembling finger, pointing beyond the group of spellbound listeners.
CLYDE: It's. It's. The kids are afraid to turn around, assuming Clyde's rigged up some unspeakable terror. And for an instant, a look of real horror washes over Clyde's A FIGURE Is coming up the path beneath the archway, rising out of the swirling mist. A frightening silhouette, backlit by the moon. But then Clyde realizes who it is.
A FIGURE: Is coming up the path beneath the archway, rising out of the swirling mist. A frightening silhouette, backlit by the moon. But then Clyde realizes who it is.
CLYDE: Shit! It's Drew's Dad. It's fuckin' Gus! Drew and the others quickly turn around, realizing it's not part of the punch-line scare.
THRU: 91 OMITTED EXT. PET SEMATARY - NIGHT The kids quickly scramble for hiding places in the bordering brush, dropping their beer cans as fast as they can. As Drew leaps to his feet, he upsets the fire, knocking one of the logs. A FLAMING EMBER rolls to the base of one of the brittle old Drew and Geoff run for it.
GUS: You boys better not be drinking!
DREW: Oh man, he's gonna kick my ass. Drew starts to take off. Clyde trips him on his first stride. Drew hits the dirt.
CLYDE: Thanks for fucking up our Halloween, dumbshit! Clyde recedes into the woods as Gus approaches the campfire. He scans the area with his flashlight, illuminating the various beer Drew, you get your ass out here! Front and center! Geoff pulls Drew to his feet. Gus passes the flashlight over the woods. Kids duck away, retreating from their hiding places. The flashlight sweeps toward Drew. Drew freezes, spotlighted by Gus' beam. A burst of LIGHTNING floods Drew's horrified face.
GUS: Drew, you get your ass out here! Front and center! Geoff pulls Drew to his feet. Gus passes the flashlight over the woods. Kids duck away, retreating from their hiding places. The flashlight sweeps toward Drew. Drew freezes, spotlighted by Gus' beam. A burst of LIGHTNING floods Drew's horrified face.
GUS: Get out here, Joker. Geoff remains frozen in the woods nearby, out of Gus' light. Behind Gus, the wooden cross is completely on fire now.
GUS: You out here making a fool of me? Drew shakes his head in instant denial.
GUS: I'm warning you, buddy! You don't play by the rules, I'm gonna shadow your ass for eternity! Drew makes a break from his spot in the woods. He weaves through the markers, arcing around the outer perimeter to avoid Gus. .but Gus is quicker. He zigzags through the crosses and headstones to intercept Drew. Gus gets a handful of Drew's collar and yanks him in.
GUS: You little shit! Gus draws his free arm back and smacks Drew across the face. Drew goes down.
GEOFF: is looking on from the woods, horrified. Torn.
DREW: cowers on the ground, trying to scramble away. Geoff bolts out into the firelight, staring defiantly at Gus in silent accusation. Gus is beyond furious. LIGHTNING flashes again.
GUS: You get out of here, Geoff Matthews! This is between me and my boy! Geoff doesn't move. Gus starts to advance forward. .but the GROWL emanating from the woods gives him pause. Everyone turns. A RUSTLING is heard in the bushes, and Zowie emerges into the building firelight, flashing his fangs at Gus. His eyes GLOW RED. Gus freezes, studying Zowie. Zowie inches forward, poised for the attack.
GUS: Call off your dog, Drew. Drew shifts his eyes from Zowie to Gus, too terrified to heed such a command. Zowie brushes past Drew and Geoff, moving in on Gus. Gus' eyes shift to burning cross at his side. With a swift boot, he kicks over the cross and presses it into his grip. Swinging the cross like a primitive weapon, Gus connects with the side of Zowie's head. Zowie spins a full circle from the impact. But he lands on all fours. Unphased. Taking the next step toward Gus. There's something clearly not of this world in Zowie's vicious stare.
GUS: ( terrified ) Drew, call him off! All Drew can manage is a faint appeal.
DREW: Zowie goes for Gus, launching into the air.
GUS: .and sinking his glistening fangs into Gus' neck. AN ERUPTION OF BLOOD showers the closest headstone. Gus comes helplessly tumbling down with the weight of the dog. His SCREAMS are suddenly cut short as Zowie rips out his throat. His arms flail weakly at his sides, then grow still. Drew and Geoff stare at the scene, wide-eyed with shock. Zowie looks up from Gus' neck with dripping, red fangs. For a moment, his eyes settle on Drew. Then Zowie bolts off, disappearing into the night.
DREW!: .and sinking his glistening fangs into Gus' neck. AN ERUPTION OF BLOOD showers the closest headstone. Gus comes helplessly tumbling down with the weight of the dog. His SCREAMS are suddenly cut short as Zowie rips out his throat. His arms flail weakly at his sides, then grow still. Drew and Geoff stare at the scene, wide-eyed with shock. Zowie looks up from Gus' neck with dripping, red fangs. For a moment, his eyes settle on Drew. Then Zowie bolts off, disappearing into the night.
DREW: Oh, God. Oh, God. Drew's eyes shift to Geoff, whose face is flushed with sickened Is he dead? In dazed shock, Drew moves in for a closer look at the body. Gus' eyes are wide open. Blood is still pumping in rhythm from his jugular with each weakening beat of his heart. It's a gruesome image against the roaring fire. Drew kneels at Gus' side. He wants to touch him. To shake him awake, but with every attempt, he draws his hand back.
GEOFF: ( a whisper ) Is he dead? In dazed shock, Drew moves in for a closer look at the body. Gus' eyes are wide open. Blood is still pumping in rhythm from his jugular with each weakening beat of his heart. It's a gruesome image against the roaring fire. Drew kneels at Gus' side. He wants to touch him. To shake him awake, but with every attempt, he draws his hand back.
GEOFF: Is he breathing? Can you hear him Drew leans forward, turning his ear toward Gus' gaping mouth. And as he inches closer.
DREW: Oh man, Geoff. we killed him. we killed him. What're we gonna do? Geoff draws closer and looks down into the dead man's face.
GEOFF: We could bring him back. Drew's eyes widen at the suggestion. And now, GAZING DOWN on Gus' body, and on the boys, WE PULL UP
AMANDA: Jesus, Drew, do you know what time it is? Did Gus ever find you? Drew moves on past her into the house.
AMANDA: ( calling after him ) Drew? Drew, what happened?
DREW: ( trying not to lose it ) Nothing happened, Mom. We just ditched Gus, that's all. Drew pauses and stares out into the unknown darkness of the night.
CHASE: Were you drinking? Geoff absently shakes his head. He slumps back against the wall, drained from the night's horrors.
CHASE: Drew's Mom called hours ago, the rest of the kids were back by ten. Where the hell were you boys? Geoff shrugs, trying to mask his uneasiness.
GEOFF: Just out.
CHASE: "Out." Well that's great, Geoff. Look, I've been letting you get away with a lot these past few weeks, but I'm not going to stand for crap like this. I don't care if it's Halloween. it's a school night, and if you do this again.
GEOFF: ( cutting him off ) I'm really tired, Dad. can I just go to sleep? Chase stops and looks at his son. Geoff's exhaustion is self- ( sighing ) Go on. we'll talk about this in the morning. Geoff nods and heads for the stairs.
CHASE: ( sighing ) Go on. we'll talk about this in the morning. Geoff nods and heads for the stairs.
GUS' FACE: APPEARS OUTSIDE. Washed in the haunting white glow. Streaked with mud. Caked with blood. Staring in at Geoff. Geoff is jolted awake by the delayed clap of THUNDER and whips his gaze to the window. Before he can focus. .the pulse of lightning fades away. And with it, Gus' face. Only darkness remains beyond the window pane. Geoff returns his gaze to the bedroom, unaware of Gus' appearance. He sinks back to his pillow, already hurtling towards sleep once EXT. DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT MOVING IN ON the house, WE SINGLE OUT a rain-obscured window on the ground floor, the window to Drew's bedroom.
DREW: ( scared shitless ) Nothing moves outside. The longer Drew watches, the more eerie each shadow becomes. Spooked, Drew steps back inside, quickly closing the door. He locks it back up again. When he turns around, he's face to face with GUS. Drew stiffens, backing into the wall.
DREW: H-how'd you get in? Gus offers a nightmarish grin and raises his hand, dangling his Found 'em. Drew's eyes follow a flow of blood from Gus' neck to the floor. Gus looks down at his dirty, bloody footprints. He's tracked blood all over the linoleum.
GUS: Found 'em. Drew's eyes follow a flow of blood from Gus' neck to the floor. Gus looks down at his dirty, bloody footprints. He's tracked blood all over the linoleum.
GUS: I'm makin' a mess of your mother's kitchen floor. I need a shower. Gus turns without another word and heads for the stairs. Drew's mouth drops in utter astonishment as he watches Gus clumsily climbing the stairs. After a moment, he returns his attention to the bloody kitchen floor. Tearing off a wad of paper towels, he wets them and begins to mop up Gus' tracks.
AMANDA: Gus, hon. I'm sorry about tonight. You coming to bed? Gus lifts the covers and climbs in. With him comes the chill of death. Gus presses up behind her. His hand moves beneath the sheets, finding its way over the curve of her waist, caressing. Amanda shivers.
AMANDA: God, you're ice cold. .and you smell! Lord, what did you get yourself into? It's then that Amanda sees the bandage around Gus' neck. Blood is seeping through the gauze.
AMANDA: My God, Gus, what happened? Amanda reaches out to touch him, but Gus stops her hand short of the bandage. Instead, he leans forward and clutches one of her Amanda tries to twist away.
AMANDA: Gus. stop it! What's wrong with But Gus doesn't stop. He throws himself on top of Amanda, roughly forcing her back onto the bed.
AMANDA: Amanda's hands beat at Gus' face and back, to no apparent effect. With one arm forced against Amanda's throat, he rips open her nightgown with the other. We pull away from Amanda's struggles, back to the bathroom. The shower running on and on, cloaking the bedroom in steam.
GEOFF: Drew nods. Geoff's eyes widen in disbelief.
DREW: Picture this. Gus comes down to breakfast and he doesn't say a word. He even kind of smiles, like he forgot he hates me. And then you know what he does? He serves me an extra helping of I asked him if I was still grounded. "no." I asked him if you could spend the night, and he nods. It's like we're a family. A real family. The words have their own meaning for Geoff, who stares to the road ahead in deep thought.
DREW: It's weird.
GEOFF: What do you mean?
DREW: It's like he's not Gus anymore. He's different. You know, like They share a chuckle that ends in silent uneasiness.
MESSAGE MACHINE: .Doctor Matthews, this is Elliot Rudman at the university. I've looked over the blood specimen you sent us on canine Chase abandons the filing and immediately returns the call. While it RINGS.
MOTHER: ( quiet whisper ) We saw your sign. Are there any kitties left? Chase studies them. They look like decent people.
CHASE: Take your pick. They're in the boarding area. You can go on Chase turns away as his phone call is answered.
CHASE: Elliot, it's Chase.
CHASE: I didn't get that. The pathologist turns off the saw. His words become audible.
RUDMAN: .I said next time it might help if you took the blood sample while the animal was still alive. The comment hits Chase out of left field.
CHASE: I don't know what you expected to find, Matthews. There's nothing wrong with the antigens, nothing to indicate an unusual death.
RUDMAN: I don't know what you expected to find, Matthews. There's nothing wrong with the antigens, nothing to indicate an unusual death.
CHASE: Wait, there must be some mix-up. He was. the dog is alive.
RUDMAN: Not this dog. There wasn't enough oxygen in those red cells to pump life into a flea. Chase is baffled, speechless.
RUDMAN: You took over for Doctor Yolander?
CHASE: Yes. why?
RUDMAN: Because the last person that sent me blood from a dead animal was 110 OMITTED 112 OMITTED INT. BOARDING AREA - DAY The kennels have been cleaned up, but the room retains its eerie, dimly lit quality. The DRIP of a faucet reverberates from the far corner. The mother enters with a toddler clinging to each hand. Their smiles fade at the unsettling surroundings. Slowly, they move down the row of kennels.
THRU: 112 OMITTED INT. BOARDING AREA - DAY The kennels have been cleaned up, but the room retains its eerie, dimly lit quality. The DRIP of a faucet reverberates from the far corner. The mother enters with a toddler clinging to each hand. Their smiles fade at the unsettling surroundings. Slowly, they move down the row of kennels.
TODDLER: Where are the kitties?
CHASE: ( into the phone ) Look, this is ridiculous. Suddenly, BLOOD-CURDLING SCREAMS pierce the air. Chase drops the phone and rushes out of the office.
CHASE: It's too gruesome even for a man of Chase's background. Fighting the gag reflex, he searches the room for the missing dog. .and then he spots the broken glass window vent along the floor. And the pile of blood-spattered shards laying on the tile.
CLYDE: Just then, Chase's van pulls at the curb, interrupting whatever trouble was about to happen. Clyde looks from the van to Geoff, and falls back.
DREW: Saved by the bell. Chase hurriedly rolls down the passenger window as Geoff and Drew Can I sleep over at Drew's Chase is preoccupied with other concerns.
GEOFF: Can I sleep over at Drew's Chase is preoccupied with other concerns.
CHASE: Yeah. that's fine. Listen, Drew, I got the tests back on Zowie. He's not well. Don't ask me how, but he got out this Geoff and Drew exchange concerned looks.
CHASE: If he finds his way home, call me, no matter what the hour, okay? And don't try to approach him. Whatever he's got might be infectious. Understand? The boys nod their heads. Chase masks his anxiety with a weary smile. With a wave, he speeds up, leaving the boys.
CHASE: Can I have the address for Quentin Chase jots an address down on the map. He turns the van up a mountain road, winding through the towering pines.
YOLANDER: You'd be so much more interesting with blue eyes. And now, ONE OF THE POODLE'S EYES POPS OUT. Yolander's finger comes through from beneath the eye socket. On closer examination, WE REALIZE that the dog is not alive at all. Yolander has his hand inside the hollowed-out carcass. He carefully looks over a container of glass eyes on his desk and selects the right shade of blue. A shot of whiskey rests nearby. Yolander reaches up into the poodle's belly and fits the blue eyes securely into place. There's a KNOCK at the door. Yolander ignores it. Maybe he's deaf. Another KNOCK. Yolander turns towards the door, annoyed at the intrusion. And behind that annoyance, there's a touch of madness. PULLING BACK, we see the rest of the room. Stuffed animals are crowded from floor to ceiling. A product of Yolander's obsession with TAXIDERMY.
YOLANDER: I'm immortalizing a poodle. State your business! Yolander presses some stuffing into the poodle's gut and begins to sew up the stomach.
YOLANDER: ( glaring ) Why are you bothering me about this? Can't you leave it be?
CHASE: I. um. Chase glances to the right and steps back.
A BOBCAT: is perched nearby, frozen in mid-pounce. It takes a second for Chase to register that the bobcat has been stuffed. Now Chase sees the rest of the room. a whole zoo of stuffed animals, looking like a rural version of the Bates Motel.
CHASE: ( momentarily thrown ) .the pathologist. he said that you had reported a similar incident. with a cat.
YOLANDER: The Creed cat, that's right. Bastard's name was "Church". Let me guess. Your dog's tissue isn't healing, pupils aren't dilating. maybe you can't find a Exactly! I thought it might be some sort of blood condition. immune deficiency or. Quentin Yolander laughs. It's disconcerting.
CHASE: Exactly! I thought it might be some sort of blood condition. immune deficiency or. Quentin Yolander laughs. It's disconcerting.
YOLANDER: There's no "blood condition." The dog isn't sick, it's dead. And so was Creed's cat. And so was his wife the night she was killed for the second time. As Yolander moves forward, Chase backs up. He bumps into a whole shelf of stuffed creatures. To his right, A RAVEN sits frozen on its perch. Chase regards Yolander as being completely insane.
YOLANDER: ( menacing ) You want some advice, friend? You get in your car, you pick up your family. and you get the hell out of that town.
CHASE: Well. uh. thanks. Chase continues to back out of the door. On his way out, he bumps into the stuffed raven's perch. .only this raven isn't stuffed. It spreads its wings and
THRU: 116F OMITTED EXT. DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT Gus reaches into the cage and grabs a rabbit by the ears. He casually snaps the neck. Laying the limp carcass on a stump cutting board, he quickly skins it. Hanging above the cages, there is now a line of furry pelts. Half a dozen. Drew and Geoff are on the porch, looking on.
DREW: I guess we're having rabbit for Gus hangs the freshly skinned fur to dry and violently snatches another hare from the cage.
AMANDA: God damnit, Gus! This isn't Amanda fetches a dishtowel and kneels to clean up the mess. Geoff and Drew exchange quick glances. As Geoff reaches for the .Gus intercepts his wrist. Geoff gulps. Gus drops his jaw, revealing a gooey mass of food. But the frozen smile and the look in his eyes convey dementia rather than Geoff and Drew can't believe their eyes. They laugh uncomfortably. There's no other response. Gus LAUGHS too. awkward, terrible laughter. Spitting out food over his shirt and plate as he does so. The boys stop laughing, but Gus just keeps on going. Amanda stares at Gus and carries the mess out of the room. Through his laughter, Gus' bandage has slipped down, exposing part of his ragged wound. The wound glistens, oozing CLOTTED BLOOD and
GEOFF: What was that all about? You think he's trying to scare us?
DREW: I don't know but I'm not taking any chances. Drew opens the chest at the foot of his bed and produces a SHOTGUN. A box full of shells spill as he withdraws the gun. Cracking open the chamber, Drew loads two shells into the chamber.
RENEE: Chase. I miss you so much.
CHASE: ( dry-mouthed ) Chase approaches. Slowly. Fearful that this is all a dream. Renee reaches out her hand. They touch. This is not a dream.
CHASE: Oh God. Chase absently sets his gun on the bedside table as Renee draws his body to hers. They kiss. Once. Twice. Not a dream. Renee rolls Chase over, forcefully climbing on top. Chase sinks down into the center of the bed as Renee straddles him. Slowly, Renee slips off the top of her negligee.
RENEE: ( a whisper ) I can come back, Chase. .and sinks down on top of him, kissing him hungrily. Her nipples graze his chest, then her breasts flatten as she grinds her hips against his. Almost instantly, the weight of her grows unbearable. Chase fights to pull his mouth from hers, to breathe.
CHASE: No. Too heavy. There is no pleasure in his words, just unmitigated horror as Renee's body comes down on him harder.
CHASE: .can't breathe. I can't.
CHASE'S EYES: pop open, frenzied, AS HE COMES OUT OF HIS DREAM. Chase is alone on the bed, but he's still feeling the weight pressing down on him.
ZOWIE: is laying on his chest, staring back at him, rearing his teeth in a growl. Zowie LUNGES forward, jaws flashing, and Chase twists sideways. GNASHING TEETH connect with Chase's shoulder, then with the pillows where Chase's head used to be. A BLIZZARD OF DOWN FEATHERS
MARJORIE: I didn't mean to. I was going to empty the hamper. Chase turns, shaking off the scare.
CHASE: It's okay. Marjorie's eyes can't help but fix on the dog bites scattered over Chase's chest and arms.
MARJORIE: What happened to you?
CHASE: I had a little run-in with Zowie.
MARJORIE: You sure did. Marjorie sets the laundry aside.
MARJORIE: Here, let me do that. Marjorie looks over the antiseptics Chase has laid out on the sink. Saturating a wad of gauze with hydrogen peroxide, she gently cleanses the gashes on his arms. There's nothing overtly sexual in her actions, but the gentleness of her touch doesn't go unnoticed by Chase.
MARJORIE: I hope he doesn't have rabies.
CHASE: He doesn't. I don't know what he has, but I'm hoping to God it's not infectious. Chase stops and looks at Marjorie's reflection in the mirror.
CHASE: Marjorie. what do you know about the Creed murders? Marjorie stiffens for a moment. Obviously the Creeds are a sore spot for the people in this town.
MARJORIE: Did you ever play that game where you pass a story down a row of people and see how screwed up it gets by the time it's done? People say Louis Creed's son came back from the dead and it drove him crazy. He killed his wife and himself, and that's the end of story. Anything else belongs in the National Enquirer. Marjorie tapes the bandage over Chase's shoulder too tight. Chase's groan snaps her back to the reality at hand.
MARJORIE: Sorry. Now tell me what that has to do with Zowie? Chase closes his eyes, shutting out the pain.
CHASE: I wish I knew.
LIBRARIAN: What are you looking for, Hon.
CHASE: Do you have anything on the Creed murders? I can't find the microfilm from that period. The librarian's smile vanishes. She lowers her voice, focusing her attention on some paperwork.
LIBRARIAN: We don't keep anything on file from that far back.
CHASE: But you've got files from the previous years.
LIBRARIAN: We have nothing on the Creed murders, sir. Can I get you something else? Chase looks around and realizes that a dozen hostile eyes are on him. TOWNSPEOPLE withholding a dark secret. Chase slowly backs away, eager to escape the field of hostile 127 OMITTED 129 OMITTED EXT. HIGHWAY, COUNTRY BRIDGE - DAY Geoff and Drew have parked their bikes beneath the bridge. They sit on the bank of the creek below, watching the water run past. Geoff is lost in thought.
THRU: 129 OMITTED EXT. HIGHWAY, COUNTRY BRIDGE - DAY Geoff and Drew have parked their bikes beneath the bridge. They sit on the bank of the creek below, watching the water run past. Geoff is lost in thought.
GEOFF: Do you think everyone that came back would be like Gus?
DREW: I don't know. .maybe it depends on what you were like before you.
GEOFF: ( finishing ) Drew nods. He tosses a stone into the creek, then looks up at the sun and sighs.
DREW: I gotta go back and do my Go later. Drew shakes his head.
GEOFF: Go later. Drew shakes his head.
DREW: I can't. Gus'd kill me if I showed up late. The boys reluctantly rise and move to their bikes, walking them up the steep grade to the highway.
DREW: See you at school Monday? Geoff nods. He looks at Drew. The boy is genuinely frightened. But there's nothing either of them can do. They're trapped in their roles as kids. Both boys mount their bikes. Drew turns.
DREW: You ever think about running away?
GEOFF: All the time. Drew smiles at this. He waves to Geoff and pedals off.
DREW: ( calling back ) See ya! Geoff waves and heads off in the opposite direction.
CLYDE: rips by on an old junkyard fixer-up MOTORCYCLE, and he's heading in Geoff's direction. Seeing him, Drew brakes and pulls his bike into a U-turn, pumping furiously to catch up with Geoff.
CLYDE: Well look who's here! Clyde veers right, forcing Geoff towards the shoulder of the 131 OMITTED 132 OMITTED EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - DAY The ground ahead drops toward a ravine. Geoff has nowhere to go but down the slope. Clyde is right there beside him. Laughing, Clyde reaches over and grabs ahold of Geoff's handlebar. He jerks it sideways.
CLYDE: Geoff's front wheel turns perpendicular. The bike pitches forward, THROWING Geoff into the dirt ahead. Clyde broadies his bike to a stop. With the engine idling, he hops Before Geoff can get to his feet, Clyde has picked up Geoff's bike and planted it upside down in the dirt.
CLYDE: Guess your Dad's not here to save you now, is he? Clyde gets a handful of Geoff's collar and drags him over toward the bike. With his free hand, Clyde cranks the pedal. The back wheel spins. Faster and faster.
CLYDE: You ever seen a tire take off a Through the blur of the spokes, WE SEE Geoff, eyes widening Neither have I. Clyde forces Geoff's face toward the spinning tread.
CLYDE: Neither have I. Clyde forces Geoff's face toward the spinning tread.
CLYDE: Might even kill ya. Wheel might chew right into your brains. You could visit your mom. Geoff tries to get a hold on the frame of the bike for leverage, but his arms don't reach beyond the spinning wheel. Clyde is full of deranged glee, fueled by Geoff's fear. But now, A HAND grabs the wool scarf streaming from the back of Clyde's neck and yanks him off of Geoff. Clyde reels, finding. GUS standing there behind him. He looks bad. Real bad. His bandages are unwound and his ruined neck is still seeping. His face is unearthly pale. He's deteriorated considerably since Jesus Christ, Gus! Gus levels a threatening gaze at Geoff.
CLYDE: ( startled ) Jesus Christ, Gus! Gus levels a threatening gaze at Geoff.
GUS: Go home. But Geoff remains frozen. Gus fixes him with a stare that could turn flesh to stone.
GUS: I said. GO HOME!! Geoff snaps out of it and flips his bike over. He gets a running start, making a beeline for the highway without ever looking back.
CLYDE: Come on, Gus, I was just fucking with him. What're you gonna do? Give me a ticket? I mean, shit, Gus. Clyde grows increasingly wary of Gus' evil stare. Gus steps You can't lay a finger on me. Wrong. Gus lashes out, backhanding Clyde across the face. Clyde falls to the ground, flat on his back, with his nose gushing blood. Terrified. Gus turns around and lifts the idling motorcycle. With one hand under the back of the seat, and the other working the accelerator handlebar, Gus advances toward Clyde. Gus kicks the bike into gear and REVS the accelerator. THE REAR WHEEL SPINS. On the pavement it would be moving forty miles an hour. Clyde can't believe his eyes. Pleading.
CLYDE: You can't lay a finger on me. Wrong. Gus lashes out, backhanding Clyde across the face. Clyde falls to the ground, flat on his back, with his nose gushing blood. Terrified. Gus turns around and lifts the idling motorcycle. With one hand under the back of the seat, and the other working the accelerator handlebar, Gus advances toward Clyde. Gus kicks the bike into gear and REVS the accelerator. THE REAR WHEEL SPINS. On the pavement it would be moving forty miles an hour. Clyde can't believe his eyes. Pleading.
CLYDE: Gus. what are you doing?
GUS: I'm just fucking with you. Gus plants his foot against Clyde's chest, pinning him, and lowers the spinning rear wheel TOWARD CLYDE'S NECK. The wheel WHINES like a circular saw. Gus lowers the wheel. Then jerks it away, flashing a sadistic Just when Clyde thinks Gus is backing off, the wheel comes down Stop it, man! Stop it!!! Gus gets into the rhythm as he lowers and retracts the spinning wheel at the terrified bully. But this time, as the wheel comes down. CLYDE'S WOOL SCARF, defying gravity, gets swept up, swallowed into the GEARS. And along with the scarf, here comes Clyde's SCREAMING face. We can only imagine the gruesome instant that follows. BLOOD sprays up over Gus' arms and chest. And then we hear the sound of CRUNCHING BONES jamming the motorcycle's gears.
CLYDE: ( wailing ) Stop it, man! Stop it!!! Gus gets into the rhythm as he lowers and retracts the spinning wheel at the terrified bully. But this time, as the wheel comes down. CLYDE'S WOOL SCARF, defying gravity, gets swept up, swallowed into the GEARS. And along with the scarf, here comes Clyde's SCREAMING face. We can only imagine the gruesome instant that follows. BLOOD sprays up over Gus' arms and chest. And then we hear the sound of CRUNCHING BONES jamming the motorcycle's gears.
GUS: ( dead-pan ) He bares his teeth in a death's head grin.
DREW: Oh man. Just then we hear the CRACKLE of a POLICE P.A. and Gus' amplified VOICE coming from the yard outside.
DREW: ( horrified ) No, Zowie! It's me! Pleading, Drew slowly retreats down the hallway. Along the way, he backs right into. GUS, grinning from ear to ear. Drew recoils against the wall, swinging up his shotgun.
DREW: Stay back! But Gus just keeps on grinning. He takes a step forward. Drew pulls the trigger. And CLICK! Nothing happens. The chambers are empty.
GUS: Forget something, Drew buddy? Gus raises his hand. He's holding the shotgun shells. He lets them fall to the floor. Suddenly Gus wrenches the gun from Drew's hands. He swings it .Drew SCREAMS and ducks beneath the blow, as the shotgun butt SMASHES a hole in the wall above his head. Gus flings the shotgun aside and LUNGES for Drew. Drew races down the hallway to the back door. He turns the latch. The deadbolt has been locked from the inside. Drew's eyes whip to the keyholder on the wall. All the keyhooks are empty. Here comes the JINGLING of keys in Gus' pockets as he comes down the hall. Drew dashes away from the back door. Gus' eyes shift from Drew's fleeing form to A BOX OF TOOLS in the service closet.
GUS: ( crazed ) You have the right to remain WHAM! Gus SMASHES the hammer into the wall to punctuate his words. Plaster goes flying.
GUS: ( continuing ) .while I bash your fucking head Drew's eyes dart frantically, looking for a way out. The closest route of escape is UP THE STAIRS. Down the hallway, Zowie starts running forward. Drew's caught between a rock and a hard place.
GUS: You have the right to a lawyer, but you won't need one. He runs for it. Gus charges to intercept him. Drew gets to the stairs first.
GUS: .cause you'll be dead! WHAM! Gus brings the hammer down with the claw end leading. It sinks into the stair below Drew's feet. Zowie LEAPS past Gus, tearing up the stairs as Gus wrenches the hammer free.
UPSTAIRS: Drew makes it to the top of the stairs with Zowie right on his Drew DIVES into Amanda and Gus' bedroom as. Zowie springs from the floor. Drew SLAMS the door shut, SMACKING Zowie. Zowie collapses to the floor, dazed.
STUPID?!: The bedroom door EXPLODES INWARD and Gus claws his way into the Wasting no time, Drew climbs through the broken window.
DREW: Gus killed Clyde, Mom! He's trying to kill me! Just then, the BACK DOOR flies open. Gus steps out.
GUS: Drew, buddy! Daddy's not done Amanda spots the hammer hanging from his grip. Gus cracks a sick smile and FLINGS THE HAMMER at the car. CRACK! The hammer bounces off the windshield, causing it to Go Mom! Go!!! That's all the convincing Amanda needs. She puts the car into reverse and stomps on the gas.
DREW: Go Mom! Go!!! That's all the convincing Amanda needs. She puts the car into reverse and stomps on the gas.
DREW: Gus cranks the wheel, jumping back onto the road, forcing Amanda's car into the path of the oncoming truck.
NEWSCASTER: . Friends and neighbors came to pay respects for Drew and Amanda Gilbert, who died in a head-on collision Saturday. Chase enters the kitchen, eyes moving to the TV.
MARJORIE: Those poor people. I saw Gus this morning. he looked terrible. Chase pulls his eyes away from the broadcast as Marjorie sets dinner on the table. Chase yells upstairs.
CHASE: Geoff, dinner's ready! I'm not hungry. Chase gives Marjorie an apologetic look and rises from the table. Meanwhile, the news broadcast continues. A photo of Clyde appears on the screen.
NEWSCASTER: .in other news, the disappearance of a Ludlow youth remains a mystery. Clyde Parker was last seen on Saturday afternoon. His motorcycle was found off Highway 62.
CHASE: Geoff. what are you doing? There's an obsessive dementia in Geoff's gaze.
GEOFF: I'm getting things ready for Mom. Chase sighs. Obviously the strain of Drew's funeral has proven too much for Geoff. He moves closer.
CHASE: ( gently ) Mom is dead, Geoff. You know A creepy smile flickers across Geoff's face.
GEOFF: She doesn't have to be. Chase freezes as a chill runs up his spine.
CHASE: What are you talking about?
GEOFF: I can bring her back. The same way Drew and me brought Zowie At this, Chase is positively spooked.
CHASE: Geoff, this is crazy. Zowie didn't die.
GEOFF: He did. We buried him. There's a place out in the woods. if you bury something there, it comes back alive. Chase stares at his son. This is insane. It must be. Just then, the PHONE RINGS downstairs. Geoff continues to stare at his father.
GEOFF: We tried it on Zowie first. And then we did it again, when Zowie killed Gus. Drew didn't want Gus to be dead, so we brought him back, too. It's too much for Chase. His mouth is hanging agape.
CHASE: Look, Geoff. Just. just relax, okay. I'm going to take this call and I'll be right back. Okay? Geoff doesn't respond. Chase pulls open the door and leaves.
CHASE: What?! Christ, I'll be right Chase hangs up, stunned. He turns to Marjorie, who's watching him with a concerned gaze.
CHASE: ( hurried ) Marjorie, I need you to stay late. Geoff is really upset and I have to take care of this. Don't let him leave the house, alright? Chase is out the door before she has a chance to respond.
THRU: 151F OMITTED INT. ATTIC - NIGHT Geoff is laying on his mother's bed, weeping. Tiger sits at the foot of the bed. Suddenly she wakens and HISSES. From out of the darkness.
RENEE'S HAND: ENTERS FRAME, gently touching Geoff's side. And with its arrival, so comes her eerie LULLABY.
RENEE: ( a whisper ) I need you, Geoff.
GEOFF: slowly raises his head, bewildered. Renee's hand withdraws into the darkness. He reaches out for her, but she's gone. The LULLABY remains, beckoning from down the attic stairs. The attic door slowly swings open of its own accord. Geoff rises from the bed and follows.
THRU: 167 OMITTED EXT. PLEASANTVILLE CEMETERY - NIGHT Chase's van pulls to a stop behind a maintenance vehicle. Chase is greeted by the limping CARETAKER, who quickly leads him off across the rolling hillside.
CARETAKER: .sorry to disturb you, Doctor Matthews, but I thought you'd want to come have a look for yourself. It's the damndest thing.
CHASE: ( uncomprehending ) Gus did this?!
CARETAKER: ( nodding ) He stuck around after the funeral. Told me he had an order to exhume your wife. I didn't think much of it until I saw him drag the body out of the coffin. ( shakes his head ) He put your wife in his truck and drove off right through Amanda and Drew's headstones. The caretaker points across the hillside. TIRE TRACKS cut through the manicured grass, cutting a path of destruction right through the field of headstones and on through the fence.
CARETAKER: I swear, nothing this weird has happened since Louis Creed dug up his boy. You want me to notify the Chase doesn't answer, he just storms past the caretaker.
CHASE: Doctor Yolander, this is Chase Matthews, we spoke the other Yolander cuts him off.
YOLANDER'S VOICE: ( bitter ) You didn't leave town, did you.
YOLANDER: You sorry bastard. You stayed. I have nothing more to say to you, Look, just tell me one thing. Did I treat an animal that had been brought back to life? Did I?!
CHASE'S VOICE: ( desperate ) Look, just tell me one thing. Did I treat an animal that had been brought back to life? Did I?!
YOLANDER: What do you think?
CHASE: My God. .how is that possible? You have to help me, Doctor Yolander. I don't know what I'm dealing with here! They've dug up my wife.
YOLANDER'S VOICE: ( cutting him off ) I'm retired from my practice, Matthews. It's your practice now, and it's your problem. ( beat ) God help you.
CHASE: ( screaming ) Wait! Don't hang up! But Yolander does. And now we hear the DIAL TONE.
CHASE: Chase flings the carphone down, looking up as. An approaching potato truck ZOOMS by. Blinding headlights. A BLARING HORN. Chase barely swerves out of the way. Recovering from the scare, Chase reaches over and opens the glove compartment. He pulls out his gun and sets it on the seat next to EXT. MICMAC BURIAL GROUND Geoff climbs the stone steps, reaching the flattop meas. He stops short, looking over the clearing.
GUS: is standing in the center of the burial ground. He's HUMMING, mimicking Renee's feminine tone. Now he stops and slowly turns, regarding Geoff with dead eyes. He's holding a pickaxe and shovel at his side. Gus looks to the ground at his side. Geoff follows his gaze.
GUS: You bury your own, Geoff. Geoff slowly nods and approaches, seduced beyond reason.
THRU: 177 OMITTED INT. GEOFF'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT Marjorie stirs on the couch, blinking her eyes open at the SOUND of a THUD upstairs. Otherwise, the house is dark and silent.
MARJORIE: INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT Marjorie starts up the long, dark flight of stairs to the attic. The thin night-shirt she's wearing does little to protect her from the sudden cold. She clutches herself, shivering.
MARJORIE: Geoff? You okay up there?
A FIGURE: stands in the shadows, wearing the BEADED PEACH DRESS that Marjorie had admired earlier. For a moment we think it's Renee, but as Marjorie draws closer, we see that the dress has been fitted onto a dressmaker's model. Marjorie lays a hand on the fabric, feeling the contours of the EEXT. GUS' HOUSE - NIGHT Chase's headlights sweep across the front of the dark house. Pulling to a stop, Chase opens the van's door.
ZOWIE: LEAPS out of the darkness, sinking his teeth into Chase's Chase is thrown back over the car seat, grappling with the nightmare dog as it tears into him again and again. Chase SCREAMS, reaching back for the gun. He grabs hold of it and swings it around. FIRES. Zowie is BLOWN backwards, clear out of the car, spraying CHASE with BLOOD. Zowie lands outside on his feet, looking stunned. His chest is a ruined mess. Zowie WHIMPERS and drags himself weakly towards the front porch. Chase stumbles out of the van, clutching the gun. He's bleeding 179 OMITTED EXT. PORCH - NIGHT An old saw is laying in a pile of sawdust next to a square hole that's been cut in the base of the front door. Chase gives it a look as he tries the door. It's unlocked. Chase enters, bringing with him an illuminating swath from his INT. GUS' HOUSE - NIGHT Chase's headlights stream through the windows, distorting the interior. The house looks like it's been through a tornado. A trail of BLOODY PAW PRINTS leads into the kitchen. The stench is repulsive. Grimacing, Chase has to keep himself from gagging.
CHASE: As Chase moves forward, he catches sight of.
GUS: standing in a swath of light. At Gus' feet is Zowie, tongue lolling out of his mouth. Dead for the second time. Scattered around the dog are various tools. Propped against the wall is the cut out square of wood. It's fitted with hinges at the top.
CHASE: Gus, what are you doing?! Gus glances down at the dead dog.
GUS: ( dead-pan ) I was building a doggy door.
CHASE: God damn it Gus, you dug up my wife! What the fuck is going on around here?! Gus brings a cordless electric drill up from his side, pointing it at Chase in a threatening manner.
GUS: ( grins ) A little drilling. A little As Gus moves forward, Chase gets a good look at him for the first time. He doesn't look even remotely alive.
CHASE: Holy shit! Chase levels his gun with a trembling hand. Gus stabs the air with the drill, feeding on Chase's horror. Chase pulls the trigger. A bullet pounds Gus' chest. A SPRAY OF FLESH explodes from his back. Unphased, Gus regains his balance.
GUS: God I hate when that happens. Before Chase can squeeze off the next round, Gus rips the gun from his grip.
GUS: You got a permit for that? Opening the chamber, Gus empties the remaining bullets and tosses the gun aside.
GUS: Didn't think so. Gus fires up the drill. The bit spinZZZZZZ. He DIVES at Chase, knocking him back against the counter. The drill bit SINKS INTO
GUS: ( maniacal ) No brain, no pain, Chase. Think about it. The whirling drill bit is millimeters away from Chase's eye. He clutches Gus' arm, trying to force the drill aside. At the last second, adrenaline kicks in and Chase diverts the drill. It SINKS INTO the counter-top nearby. STUCK. Gus ROARS, lashing out, but Chase manages to duck away. Chase catches sight of HIS GUN on the floor. He scrambles for it, scooping it up. BULLETS are rolling across the floor every which way. Chase slaps his palm down on one and desperately fumbles with the chamber. Gus' hands CLAMP DOWN around Chase's neck. He swings Chase around and SLAMS him against the wall, lifting him off his feet. Chase GASPS as the life is literally crushed out of him. He brings the gun up beneath Gus' chin and jams it into his ruined throat. Gus just keeps on throttling him.
GUS: ( insane ) Just remember, Chase. I had Renee first. and now I'm gonna have her BLAM! The top of Gus' head BLOWS off. His BODY is thrown back by the incredible force, tumbling him to the kitchen floor with a
CHASE: EXT. GUS' HOUSE - NIGHT Chase stumbles from the house. It's a wonder he's even conscious. He swings open the van door and throws himself inside, sinking the key into the ignition.
MARJORIE: Jesus, Geoff! Don't sneak up on me like that! .but no one is there. THE MAKE-UP MIRROR catches another glimpse. Renee's RED LIPS, magnified tenfold. The lips begin to move.
RENEE: ( a whisper ) Did you really think you could be like me? Renee's fist swings in, SMASHING a panel of the mirror. Marjorie raises her hands to protect herself against the flying glass. And as her hands come down, she finds. Renee standing before her. Her ghostly form silhouetted by moonlight. Curtains billowing around her. We never fully see her. Marjorie's face goes white with fear.
RENEE: Such a young face. but you've got Renee grabs a fistful of Marjorie's hair, viciously YANKING her head back.
RENEE: We'll do the eyes first. You always start with the eyes. Renee lashes out, SLASHING a mirror shard across the skin beneath Marjorie's right eye. Marjorie SCREAMS.
GEOFF: Marjorie? You know you're not supposed to be in the attic. Geoff starts up the stairs.
GEOFF: I came back for you, Geoff. We're going to be together again. Renee raises her outstretched arms to receive him. Through the haze of his tears, Geoff doesn't see the sinister, vacant gleam in her eyes.
RENEE: I came back for you, Geoff. We're going to be together again. Renee raises her outstretched arms to receive him. Through the haze of his tears, Geoff doesn't see the sinister, vacant gleam in her eyes.
MARJORIE: Slumped against Renee's bed like a ragdoll. We can only see half of her face. It looks untouched. Chase reaches for her.
CHASE: Marjorie's head rolls sideways, exposing the other half of her face. The skin has been stripped from her skull and peeled back. Chase turns his head away. And that's when he sees them.
RENEE: Hello, Chase. Chase gasps. The word "horror" doesn't do the moment justice.
CHASE: Oh my God.
RENEE: We can try again, Chase. We can make it work this time. Chase sinks back against the wall. He's lost a lot of blood and his strength is leaving him.
CHASE: ( shaking his head ) Don't you love me anymore, Chase?
RENEE: Don't you love me anymore, Chase?
CHASE: You're not Renee. Renee's dead. Geoff! Get over here now! But Geoff just holds his mother tighter. A hint of annoyance flickers through Renee's eyes. She strokes Geoff's hair.
RENEE: ( looking at Chase ) Geoff, honey, why don't you go downstairs. Your father and I need a moment alone. Do it for Geoff looks up at his mother, mesmerized. She releases him from the embrace. He brushes past Chase without a glance and heads for the attic door.
RENEE: Geoff pauses at the door, looking back. Renee's words have a hauntingly familiar ring.
RENEE: I love you. Geoff smiles. Turning away, he opens the door and.
CLYDE: is standing there, an AXE perched on his shoulder. His face is torn to shit, bones and brain matter exposed. He's covered from head to toe in dirt and clotted blood. He looks worse than any of the undead we've seen. A total walking nightmare.
CLYDE: ( grinning ) Hey, Junior. Wanna play? WHOOSH! Clyde swings the axe, sinking it into the wall just in front of Geoff's face. Geoff tumbles back onto the floor, snapping out of his trance. Clyde brings the axe down. .and Geoff rolls to the side, barely avoiding decapitation.
CHASE: Chase stumbles forward to rescue his son. As he does so, Clyde brings the axe back up, SMASHING Chase in the head with the blunt Chase goes down. Unconscious.
CLYDE: Oops! Looks like Daddy got a boo- Clyde turns his gaze back on Geoff.
CLYDE: Now, where were we? Geoff shuffles backwards across the floor as Clyde moves into the Renee passes behind Clyde. She SLAMS the attic door shut and snaps off the knob with a jerk of the wrist, locking them all inside. Scared out of his wits, Geoff makes it to his feet. Clyde swings again and misses. Geoff grabs hold of the axe handle, struggling, and the two boys go down.
RENEE: Moves to the vanity. She sweeps a hand across it, sending everything crashing to the ground. Crystal perfume bottles SHATTER, spilling their contents over the floor. Renee reaches for a lighter and flicks it on. She touches the flame to the perfume-soaked floor. FLAMES roar into existence, racing across the floorboards, igniting the curtains. We see the flames reflected in Renee's soulless eyes.
CLYDE: Here it comes, buddy! HERE IT
FUCKING COMES!!!: Clyde swings. Geoff ducks. The axe hits the circuit box behind him, severing the insulated cables. As Clyde rips the axe out of the wall for another try, Geoff reaches for one of the SPARKING CABLES. Clyde raises the axe above his head.
CLYDE: Eat it, ass-hole.
GEOFF: EAT THIS!!! .and Geoff shoves the live cable into Clyde's mouth! SPARKS shoot out of Clyde's eyes and ears. He jerks back and forth, writhing in a horrific replay of Renee's electrocution. Then Clyde's face BLOWS APART in a gout of ruined flesh and BLUE FLAME. The circuit is blown and the SMOKING BODY falls. Geoff drops the cable. The blazing inferno is closing in. He runs to Chase. Chase is barely conscious. Geoff drops to his knees and pulls his father to his feet.
EAT THIS!!!: .and Geoff shoves the live cable into Clyde's mouth! SPARKS shoot out of Clyde's eyes and ears. He jerks back and forth, writhing in a horrific replay of Renee's electrocution. Then Clyde's face BLOWS APART in a gout of ruined flesh and BLUE FLAME. The circuit is blown and the SMOKING BODY falls. Geoff drops the cable. The blazing inferno is closing in. He runs to Chase. Chase is barely conscious. Geoff drops to his knees and pulls his father to his feet.
RENEE: is standing in the midst of the FLAMES, reaching out. The make-up and mortician's wax she wears fall victim to the heat and her "face" begins to MELT AWAY.
RENEE: Don't leave me alone! Geoff turns away, horrified. With Chase on his shoulder, he reaches the door. Locked. Geoff sets Chase against the wall. He spots the AXE, still clutched in Clyde's hand. Geoff drags the axe free from the dead boy's grasp and goes to work on the door. Ignoring Renee's CRIES, Geoff swings the axe again and again, chopping the door apart. He coughs through the smoke. The flames are almost upon them. Finally, the wood splinters apart. Geoff reaches through and grasps the outside handle, pulling the door open. Then he turns and lifts Chase up once more. At the door, Geoff pauses for one final, tearful look back. Then his face hardens and he turns away, pulling Chase to safety.
RENEE: NO, GEOFF! NO!!! ON RENEE Alone in the fiery storm, SCREAMING. Flames devour her flowing white dress. Her face doesn't even look remotely human anymore. And as the inferno slowly closes in, we.
ON RENEE: Alone in the fiery storm, SCREAMING. Flames devour her flowing white dress. Her face doesn't even look remotely human anymore. And as the inferno slowly closes in, we.
GEOFF: stands near the van, holding Tiger in his arms.
GEOFF: All set?
CHASE: All set. Chase joins Geoff at the van and together they climb inside. Chase starts the engine, pulling away from the office.
GEOFF: Anywhere but here. We continue rising up into the brilliant blue sky, losing the van amidst the rolling Maine countryside and we
THE END: Writers : Richard Outten David S. Goyer
