TIGHT ON: Max's hand as three unmarked, circular pills hit his palm. Then, he slams the pills into the back of his mouth. Max replaces the cap on a plastic bottle of unmarked prescription drugs. He drinks from the sink and splashes a generous amount of water onto his head and face, cleaning his He wipes his nose and examines the last remnants of blood on his fingertip. Then, he dips his finger under the tap.
JENNA: Max, Max! Can we do one?
MOM: ( Over and over again ) Jenna! Jenna!
MAX: Oh, no.
JENNA: What's three hundred and twenty-two times four hundred and ninety-one.
MAX: ( instantly ) One hundred fifty-eight thousand, a hundred two. Right?
JENNA: ( Eyes light up ) Max heads down the staircase.
MOM: Jenna screams after him.
JENNA: Okay, seventy-three divided by twenty-two.
MAX: ( instantly again ) Three point three one eight one eight one eight.
MOVE IN: on Max looking up at something as he reclines on a public MOVE IN on a tree branch - shaking gently in the wind.
MOVE IN: on a tree branch - shaking gently in the wind.
MAX: WOMAN'S VOICE Maximilian Cohen, please.
WOMAN'S VOICE: Maximilian Cohen, please.
MAX: WOMAN'S VOICE Mr. Cohen?
WOMAN'S VOICE: Mr. Cohen?
MAX: Who's this?
WOMAN'S VOICE: Hi. my name is Marcy Dawson. I'm a partner with the predictive strategy firm Lancet-Percy. Can I speak with Mr. Cohen, please?
MAX: I told you.
MARCY DAWSON: Mr. Cohen! How are you? It's been a long time. Sorry I haven't been in touch. But I was hoping you would allow me to take you to lunch tomorrow, say one Sorry, I can't.
MAX: Sorry, I can't.
MARCY DAWSON: We're very anxious to talk with you, sir
MAX: I can't.
MARCY DAWSON: I'm prepared to make you a generous. Max hurries to wrap up the conversation.
MAX: I don't take offers for my research. You know that. Sorry, I Couldn't help you.
MARCY DAWSON: Mr. Cohen, give me a moment. But before Marcy finishes, Max hangs up. He rips off the printout and heads to the front door. He checks the peephole, His landlady. MRS. OVADIA, is sweeping the hallway stairs humming a turn-of-the century ( the last one, not this one ) tune. Max waits a moment. He tousles his hair. Then he checks again. She's gone. He opens his locks and releases several bolts.
DEVI: Max, good!
MAX: Hi, Devi.
DEV1: I grabbed you some Devi heads over to Max with her bags of food. She looks up at Your hair.
MAX: Devi heads over to Max with her bags of food. She looks up at
DEVI: Your hair.
MAX: What are you doing?
DEVI: Your hair, you can't go out like that. Don't worry.
MAX: It's fine. It's fine.
DEVI: You need a mom.
MAX: I have to go.
DEVI: Your somosas!
MAX: INT. COFFEE SHOP - DAY At the counter, Max stirs cream into his coffee. Then he takes three pills from the plastic bottle and drops them in his Max flips past a full-page ad in the paper that reads
LENNY MEYER: I'll put it out. The name's Lenny Meyer
LENNY MEYER: And you are?
MAX: LENNY MEYER Max Cohen.
LENNY MEYER: Max Cohen.
MAX: Max Cohen.
LENNY MEYER: ( Judging ) Max shrugs and turns back to his work.
LENNY MEYER: It's okay.
MAX: No, I'm not interested in religion.
LENNY MEYER: Have you ever heard of Kabbalah?
MAX: LENNY MEYER Jewish mysticism.
LENNY MEYER: Jewish mysticism.
MAX: I'm sorry, I'm very busy.
LENNY MEYER: I understand.it's just that it's a very exciting time in our history. Right now is a critical moment in time.
MAX: ( Sarcastic ) Yes, it's very exciting. Have you ever put on Tefillin? Max has no idea what Lenny's talking about. Lenny pulls a leather box with black leather straps from his pocket.
LENNY MEYER: Yes, it's very exciting. Have you ever put on Tefillin? Max has no idea what Lenny's talking about. Lenny pulls a leather box with black leather straps from his pocket.
LENNY MEYER: Tefillin. You know Tefillin. I know it looks strange. But it's an amazing tradition that has a tremendous amount of power. It's a mitzvah for all Jewish men to do. Mitzvahs, good deeds, are spiritual food for our hearts and our And then Max notices that his thumb is twitching He grabs it They purify us and bring us closer to God. You want to try it? Just then, Max pays his bill and prepares to leave.
LENNY MEYER: They purify us and bring us closer to God. You want to try it? Just then, Max pays his bill and prepares to leave.
MAX: I gotta go.
LENNY MEYER: Are you okay? Max? Max?
MAX: I'm sorry, bye.
LENNY MEYER: Well, maybe some other time.
MAX: Please God, Let it be a small one. He pulls a metal vaccinating gun out of the medicine cabinet. Then be loads it with a small bottle of medicine. He rolls up his sleeve, dabs alcohol on his arm, and fires the gun into his arm.
MAX: Max walks back into the
MAIN ROOM: and sits down in a chair. The lamp is blinding so he snaps it off. Only the bathroom light lights the room. He takes a few breaths.
MAX: Leave me alone.
MAX: No! No!
CUT TO: INT. BATHROOM - DAWN A phone rings incessantly. Max's eyes pop open. He's scrunched up in a corner of the room, squashed beneath the sink. His nose is bleeding. Max, crawls into the
MAIN ROOM: and picks up the phone. He pinches his nose and tilts his head Max heads to the
MARCY DAWSON: Mr. Cohen. Marcy Dawson here again I was just looking over my schedule and I realized I'll be in your neighborhood tomorrow around Max heads to the
FRONT DOOR: and checks the locks. He is barely listening to Marcy
MAX: ( Groggy ) Who is.
MARCY DAWSON: Marcy Dawson from Lancet-Percy I'm so anxious to meet you. It will be worth it—for both of us I promise. See you at your house at three, okay?
MAX: My house.how do.
MARCY DAWSON: Oh, don't worry, I got your address from Columbia. So three it is. Looking forward to it. Max tries to stop her but, before he can Marcy hangs up. A bewildered Max slowly hangs up.
MAX: Max checks the peephole - all clear. Then, he opens his -
CLOSET: which is filled with random computer parts and boxes. He pulls a thick neuroscience book from a shelf in the back of the closet. He almost knocks over an old dusty brass microscope on the shelf. Max flips through the book. It contains old plates illustrating the brain. Max examines some of the diagrams. EXT. S0L'S HALLWAY - DAY Max rings the bell on an apartment A few moments pass, and then SOL ROBESON opens the door. Sol is a wise-looking man in his early 70's. He walks with difficulty, leaning out of breath on a wooden cane. His arms are covered with faded Russian prison tattoos and he speaks with a thick Eastern European accent, He's happy to see
S0L: Max! How are you7
SOL: Stop thinking, Max, just feel. Use your intuition. It's the only way to get into the flow. What did you think of Hamlet?
MAX: I didn't get to it.
SOL: It's been a month. You haven't taken a single break.
MAX: I'm so close, Sol. I'm so close but I just can't grab it.
SOL: Have you met the new fish my niece bought me? I named her Icarus. After you. My renegade pupil. You fly too high, you'll get burned.
SOL: The more I see you, the more I see myself thirty years ago. My greatest pupil. Published at 16, Ph.D. at 20.
MAX: We'll see.
SOL: But life isn't just mathematics. I spent forty years looking for patterns in Pi, I found nothing.
MAX: You found things.
SOL: I found things, but not a INT. MOVING TRAIL - DAY Max sits in the corner of a rickety New York City subway car. The train is almost completely deserted. Max looks down at his hand. He opens his palm and reveals a black Go chip.
LENNY MEYER: Hey, Max, how you doing?
MAX: Oh, okay.
LENNY MEYER: Lenny Meyer. I'll put it out. So, what do you do?
MAX: Um, I work with computers Really? What type of math?
LENNY MEYER: Really? What type of math?
MAX: Number theory. Mostly Number theory? No way, I work in theory, too. Not traditional, though. I work with the Torah. Yeah. You know Hebrew is all numbers. It's all math.
LENNY MEYER: Number theory? No way, I work in theory, too. Not traditional, though. I work with the Torah. Yeah. You know Hebrew is all numbers. It's all math.
MAX: ( Passing it of as a coincidence ) Yeah. You know Hebrew is all numbers. It's all math.
LENNY MEYER: Yeah. You know Hebrew is all numbers. It's all math.
MAX: Lenny pulls out a worn' dog-eared Bible from his pocket. There are paper slips marking what seems like every other page. When he opens it up, Max sees that the pages are marked up by highlighter pens, notes and diagrams. Lenny points to the text. EXTREME CLOSE-UP of Hebrew letters.
LENNY MEYER: Here, look.the ancient Jews used Hebrew as their numerical system. Each letter is a number. Lenny pulls out a pen and grabs Max's Journal. He writes on it as he talks.
LENNY MEYER: You see.The Hebrew "A," the number 1. The Hebrew "B," Bet, is two. You can take any Hebrew text and turn them into a long string of numbers.
LENNY MEYER: The Torah is just a long string of numbers. Some say that it's a long code sent to us from God. Satisfied, Lenny lights up a cigarette and takes a drag.
MAX: ( Mildly impressed ) Kind of interesting.
LENNY MEYER: ( Proud of himself ) Yeah, like take the Hebrew word for, say, the Garden of Eden, Kadem. Kuf, Dalei Mem.Kuf is a hundred. Daled, four Mem, forty. They equal one hundred and forty-four. Then take the tree of knowledge.in the garden, Aat Ha Haim, it equals two hundred and thirty-three. Now you can take that number and.
MAX: They're Fibonacci numbers.
LENNY MEYER: The Fibonacci sequence. Italian mathematician, thirteenth century. If you divide a hundred and forty-four into two hundred and thirty-three, it approaches theta.
MAX: The Fibonacci sequence. Italian mathematician, thirteenth century. If you divide a hundred and forty-four into two hundred and thirty-three, it approaches theta.
LENNY MEYER: The Greek symbol for the golden ratio. The golden Lenny exhales the smoke. Max quickly graphs the number on his Wall Street Journal.
MAX: The Greek symbol for the golden ratio. The golden Lenny exhales the smoke. Max quickly graphs the number on his Wall Street Journal.
LENNY MEYER: You're right, I never saw that before. That's the series you find in nature. Like the face of a sunflower.
MAX: Wherever there's spirals.
LENNY MEYER: You see, there's math everywhere.
MAX: Math everywhere.
MAX: ( Serious ) SLOW MOTION: Max looks at the spiral he just drew on the Wall Street Journal. NORMAL SPEED Suddenly, Max stands up.
MAX: Oh my God.
MAX: What the.
MAX: TIGHT ON A FUSE BOX Max removes a fuse. He replaces it with a penny.
MAX'S ROOM: Max tries to reboot Euclid, but nothing happens. He tries a second time, but nothing happens. Devi and Farrouhk are still at it. Max puts on a pair of latex gloves. He dons a surgical mask. He climbs up to a loft above his monitors. A glass case, fed cool air by a vent tube, encases some computer parts. He carefully removes the front glass cover. Then he gets it off he's stunned. Not only have the chips melted down, but a strange flaky substance covers the board.
MAX: What the.
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. PLAYGROUND - DAY TIGHT ON a tree branch shaking manically in the wind. Max sits on a park bench watching the branch shake. It terrifies him. He pulls out the printout of his picks and examines them.
MAX: Euclid crashed. I lost all my data, my hardware.
SOL: Your mainframe?
MAX: What happened?
SOL: What happened?
MAX: I don't know, first I got these horrible picks. Then Euclid spits out some numbers. Never saw anything like it and then it fries. The whole machine just You have a printout?
SOL: You have a printout?
MAX: The picks, the number?
SOL: The picks, the number?
MAX: I threw it out.
SOL: What was the number it spit out?
MAX: I don't know, just a long string of digits.
SOL: How many?
MAX: I don't know.
SOL: ( Intense ) What was it, a hundred and fifty, a thousand, two hundred sixteen!? How many?
MAX: I don't know. Probably around two hundred. I dealt with some bugs back in my Pi days. I was wondering if it was similar to one I ran into. Sol begins to feed his fish. He points to one.
SOL: ( Beat ). I dealt with some bugs back in my Pi days. I was wondering if it was similar to one I ran into. Sol begins to feed his fish. He points to one.
SOL: Have you met Archimedes. The one with the black spot. You see?
MAX: Remember Archimedes of Syracuse? The King asks Archimedes to determine if a present he's received was actually solid gold. Unsolved problem at the time. It tortures the great Greek mathematician for weeks. Insomnia haunts him and he twists and turns on his bed for nights on end. Finally, his equally exhausted wife, she's forced to share a bed with this genius, convinces him to take a bath, to relax. While stepping into the tub he observes the bathwater rise as he enters. Displacement. A way to determine volume. And thus, a way to determine density, weight over volume. And thus, Archimedes solves the problem. He screams "Eureka!"—Greek for "I found it!"—and is so overwhelmed he runs dripping naked through the streets to the King's castle to report his discovery. Now, what's the moral of the story.
SOL: Remember Archimedes of Syracuse? The King asks Archimedes to determine if a present he's received was actually solid gold. Unsolved problem at the time. It tortures the great Greek mathematician for weeks. Insomnia haunts him and he twists and turns on his bed for nights on end. Finally, his equally exhausted wife, she's forced to share a bed with this genius, convinces him to take a bath, to relax. While stepping into the tub he observes the bathwater rise as he enters. Displacement. A way to determine volume. And thus, a way to determine density, weight over volume. And thus, Archimedes solves the problem. He screams "Eureka!"—Greek for "I found it!"—and is so overwhelmed he runs dripping naked through the streets to the King's castle to report his discovery. Now, what's the moral of the story.
MAX: That a breakthrough will Wrong. The point of the story is the wife. Listen to your wife, she will give you perspective. Meaning, you need a break, Max, you have to take a bath, otherwise you'll get nowhere. There will be no order, only chaos. Go home and take a bath.
SOL: Wrong. The point of the story is the wife. Listen to your wife, she will give you perspective. Meaning, you need a break, Max, you have to take a bath, otherwise you'll get nowhere. There will be no order, only chaos. Go home and take a bath.
MAX: Hey, excuse me, can I see The man hands Max the paper. Max scans the article. Then He quickly turns to the listings. His finger barrels down a column. It stops at ABR.
MAX: Six and a half.
MAX: Fourteen and a half. Oh, Max stumbles toward the doors. He looks out the window: into the darkness of the tunnel.
MAX: ( Out of breath ) My God. My God. ( Gets pumped to himself ) Yes! Yes!
MARCY DAWSON: Mr. Cohen! Perfect timing.
MARCY DAWSON: I was just waiting for you. I thought you stood me up, so I was going to head home.
MAX: Who are you?
MARCY DAWSON: Oh.Marcy Dawson. From Lancet Percy. We were supposed to meet at three.
MAX: I'm sorry, I don't.
MARCY DAWSON: I can't tell you what a pleasure it is to finally meet you. I've studied your papers for years.
MARCY DAWSON: I have something you won't be able to say no to. Why don't we take a spin in the limo?
MAX: No, no, no, really, I We're excited by your work. We can't wait to discuss. Max attempts to pull away but Marcy is firm on leading him to the car. Meanwhile, the Shinny man is heading right at them. The CHAUFFEUR reaches out to him. Max yanks his arm free and runs away. He whips around a corner.
MARCY DAWSON: We're excited by your work. We can't wait to discuss. Max attempts to pull away but Marcy is firm on leading him to the car. Meanwhile, the Shinny man is heading right at them. The CHAUFFEUR reaches out to him. Max yanks his arm free and runs away. He whips around a corner.
MAX: On the nose. On the damn nose.
HALLWAY: where he looks at Devi's door, nervously. He gathers his courage and knocks on her door. Through the door hears.
MAX: Um, no, it's Max from next door.
DEVI: Max, is everything all Do you have any iodine?
MAX: Do you have any iodine?
DEVI: ( concerned, she reaches for Max's hands ) Iodine.did you cut ( Pulling his hands away ) No. I just need it to stain a Ah, science, the pursuit of knowledge. One second. She heads to her bathroom. Max waits impatiently.
MAX: ( Pulling his hands away ) No. I just need it to stain a Ah, science, the pursuit of knowledge. One second. She heads to her bathroom. Max waits impatiently.
DEVI: Ah, science, the pursuit of knowledge. One second. She heads to her bathroom. Max waits impatiently.
MAX: Just something with my MAX'S ROOM - MOMENTS LATER Max uses his pinky to drip a drop of iodine on the slide. Through the wall he hears Farrouhk arriving home.
MAX: I just threw out something. I didn't realize I needed it.
MRS. OVADIA: Just a printout. I, uh, lost my data. Max looks back at the trash And forgets about Mrs. Ovadia. Soon, Max gets up and kicks the trashcan. He heads home.
MAX: Just a printout. I, uh, lost my data. Max looks back at the trash And forgets about Mrs. Ovadia. Soon, Max gets up and kicks the trashcan. He heads home.
LENNY MEYER: Max! How you doing? Lenny Oh, hey.
MAX: Oh, hey.
LENNY MEYER: Hey, where you going? You got a few moments to do Tefillin? Max turns around and notices Marcy talking to Mrs. Ovadia. Mrs. Ovadia points up the street toward him.
LENNY MEYER: I gotta car, we can cruise over to my.
MAX: You gotta car?
LENNY MEYER: Yeah, right there. That's Ephraim, my friend. We swing around with Max and see a station wagon. EPHRAIM sits in the passenger Seat. He's a big-boned, bearded, Orthodox Jew.
MAX: All tight, lets go.
LENNY MEYER: They head for the station wagon.
MAX: Lenny, I don't really want to do.
LENNY MEYER: Do it for me? It means a lot, having someone of your stature performing a mitzvah in my presence. When you told me your name was Max Cohen, I didn't realize you were the Max Cohen. Maximilian Cohen.
MAX: You know me?
LENNY MEYER: 0f course, I've followed your research since your Columbia days. It's revolutionary. You've inspired the work we do.
MAX: I have?
LENNY MEYER: Yes, very much so. The only difference is, we're not looking at stocks. We're searching for a pattern in Torah.
MAX: What kind of pattern?
LENNY MEYER: We're not really sure. Our calculations have shown us that there is a number encoded in the text.
MAX: What sort of number?
LENNY MEYER: We don't know. All we know is that it's two hundred and sixteen digits long.
LENNY MEYER: Don't worry. This one just goes over your head.
MAX: ( Coolly ) Two sixteen?
LENNY MEYER: Yes. Now we have to say a small prayer, repeat after me.
LENNY MEYER: That's it. Wasn't so bad, was it? You feel Lenny starts removing the Teffillin from Max.
MAX: What is it?
LENNY MEYER: It's a prayer about our dedication to our one and only God.
MAX: ( Attempting calmness ) No, I mean the number, the two sixteen number? What is Oh. We don't know. We just know that it's the most common number encoded in the text. It might be some type of linguistic pattern. If we could figure out what the number is we could maybe answer that.
LENNY MEYER: Oh. We don't know. We just know that it's the most common number encoded in the text. It might be some type of linguistic pattern. If we could figure out what the number is we could maybe answer that.
MAX: Tell me more.
SOL: What's going on, Sol!?
MAX: What's going on, Sol!?
SOL: Relax, it's early.
SOL: Now, what's up?
MAX: What's the two hundred and sixteen number, Sol?
SOL: Excuse me?
MAX: You asked me if I had seen a two hundred and sixteen digit number, right?
SOL: Oh, you mean the bug. I found it working on Pi.
MAX: What do you mean by "found it"?
SOL: What's this all about, Well, there's these religious Jews who have.
MAX: Well, there's these religious Jews who have.
SOL: Religious Jews?
MAX: Well, you know, Hassidim. I met one in the coffee shop. The guy's a number theorist. The Torah is their data set. The thing is, they're searching for a two hundred and sixteen digit number in the Torah.
SOL: Really? What's it mean to They say they don't know, but that's crazy. I mean what are the odds.
MAX: They say they don't know, but that's crazy. I mean what are the odds.
SOL: It's just a coincidence.
MAX: But hold on, there's something else. You remember those strange picks I got.
SOL: Yesterday's stock picks?
MAX: Right. Well, it turns out that they were correct. I hit two picks on the nose. Smack on the nose.
SOL: ( Surprised ) Something's going on, and it has to do with that number. The answer is there.
MAX: Something's going on, and it has to do with that number. The answer is there.
SOL: Max, it's a bug.
MAX: No. it's a pattern. A pattern is in that number
SOL: Come with me.
SOL: Listen to me. The Ancient Japanese considered the Go board to be a microcosm of the universe. Although when it is empty it appears to be simple and ordered, in fact, the possibilities of game play are endless. They say that no two Go games have ever been alike. Just like snowflakes. So, the Go board actually represents an extremely complex and chaotic universe. That is the truth of our world, Max. It can't be easily summed up with math. There is no simple But as a Go game progresses, the possibilities become smaller and smaller. The board does take on order. Soon, all moves are So, maybe, even though we're not sophisticated enough to be aware of it, there is an underlying order.a pattern, beneath every Go game. Maybe that pattern is like the pattern in the market, in the Torah. The two sixteen That is insanity, Max.
MAX: But as a Go game progresses, the possibilities become smaller and smaller. The board does take on order. Soon, all moves are So, maybe, even though we're not sophisticated enough to be aware of it, there is an underlying order.a pattern, beneath every Go game. Maybe that pattern is like the pattern in the market, in the Torah. The two sixteen That is insanity, Max.
SOL: So, maybe, even though we're not sophisticated enough to be aware of it, there is an underlying order.a pattern, beneath every Go game. Maybe that pattern is like the pattern in the market, in the Torah. The two sixteen That is insanity, Max.
MAX: So, maybe, even though we're not sophisticated enough to be aware of it, there is an underlying order.a pattern, beneath every Go game. Maybe that pattern is like the pattern in the market, in the Torah. The two sixteen That is insanity, Max.
SOL: That is insanity, Max.
MAX: Or maybe it's genius. I have to get that number.
SOL: Hold on, you have to slow down. You're losing it, you have to take a breath. Listen to yourself. You're connecting a computer bug I had, a computer bug you might have had, and some religious hogwash. If you want to find the number two sixteen in the world, you'll be able to pull it out of anywhere. Two hundred and sixteen steps from your street comer to your front door. Two hundred and sixteen seconds you spend riding on the elevator. When your mind becomes obsessed with anything, it will filter everything else out and find examples of that thing everywhere. Three hundred and twenty, four hundred and fifty, twenty-three. Whatever! You've chosen two sixteen and you'll find it everywhere in nature. But Max, as soon as you discard scientific rigor, you are no longer a mathematician. You become a numerologist. What you need to do is take a break from your research. You need it. You deserve it Here's a hundred dollars, I want you to take it. If ,you won't take it, borrow it. Either way, take a break. Spend it however you like as long as it falls in the category of vacation. Real world stuff, okay. No math. Max looks at his bands.
SOL: Just try it. In a week you'll laugh about this. C'mon, Max. Think about it!
MARCY DAWSON: Mr. Cohen? Mr. Cohen? Please stop for a second Mr. Cohen?
MAX: Damn it already! Stop following me. I'm not interested in your money. I'm searching for a way to understand our world. I'm searching for perfection. I don't deal with mediocre materialistic people like I'm sorry. I'm very sorry. I admit I've been a bit too aggressive. But all I ask is for five minutes of your time. Marcy hands Max a metal stopwatch.
MARCY DAWSON: I'm sorry. I'm very sorry. I admit I've been a bit too aggressive. But all I ask is for five minutes of your time. Marcy hands Max a metal stopwatch.
MARCY DAWSON: .a stopwatch. Already ticking. Allow me the four and a half minutes left Let me tell you what I want. Let me tell you what I can offer you. Afterwards, if you don't want to talk to me, then fine, we part as friends and I promise that you will never see me again. That's fair, isn't it?
MAX: ( After a moment, he looks at the stopwatch ) Good. It's funny, even though we have different aims and different goals we're actually incredibly alike. We both seek the same thing—perfection. I know. clearly we're seeking different types of perfection, but that is what makes us perfect candidates for a fruitful partnership. If you let me, I can be your greatest ally. Take the acacia tree.in East Africa. It is the most prevalent plant in all of Kenya because it has managed to secure its niche by defeating its major predator, the giraffe. To accomplish this, the tree has made a contract with a highly specialized red ant. The tree has evolved giant spores which act as housing for the ants In return for shelter, the ants supply defense. When a giraffe starts to eat the tree's leaves, the shaking branch acts like an alarm. The ants charge out and secrete an acid onto the giraffe's tongue. The giraffe learns its lesson and never returns. Without each other, the tree would be picked dry and the ants would have no shade from the brutal African sun Both would die. But with each other, they succeed, they survive, they surpass. They have different aims, different goals but they work together. Max, we would like to establish a mutually benefiting alliance with you.
MARCY DAWSON: Good. It's funny, even though we have different aims and different goals we're actually incredibly alike. We both seek the same thing—perfection. I know. clearly we're seeking different types of perfection, but that is what makes us perfect candidates for a fruitful partnership. If you let me, I can be your greatest ally. Take the acacia tree.in East Africa. It is the most prevalent plant in all of Kenya because it has managed to secure its niche by defeating its major predator, the giraffe. To accomplish this, the tree has made a contract with a highly specialized red ant. The tree has evolved giant spores which act as housing for the ants In return for shelter, the ants supply defense. When a giraffe starts to eat the tree's leaves, the shaking branch acts like an alarm. The ants charge out and secrete an acid onto the giraffe's tongue. The giraffe learns its lesson and never returns. Without each other, the tree would be picked dry and the ants would have no shade from the brutal African sun Both would die. But with each other, they succeed, they survive, they surpass. They have different aims, different goals but they work together. Max, we would like to establish a mutually benefiting alliance with you.
MAX: ( handing back the stopwatch ) I'm not interested.
MARCY DAWSON: Allow me to dose.
MARCY DAWSON: As a sign of good faith we wish to offer you this.
MAX: I told you I don't want money.
MARCY DAWSON: The suitcase isn't filled with fifties or gold or diamonds. Just silicon. A Ming Mecca chip.
MAX: ( Yeah right! ) Ming Mecca. They're not declassified.
MARCY DAWSON: You're right. They're not. But Lancet-Percy has many friends. Come here, take a look.
MAX: ( Stuttering ) What do.do.
MARCY DAWSON: Beautiful, isn't it? You know how rare.are you okay?
MAX: Yeah, I got to go.
MARCY DAWSON: But what about.
MAX: Let me think about it.
MARCY DAWSON: What? Mr. Cohen!?
MAX: Max charges up a flight of stairs. He crosses a passage over the tracks and flies down the stairs to the other side of the The Man is gone. A pool of blood sits where the Man was. Max touches it with his toe. It's sticky. He notices a trail of blood leading off from the pool. He follows it around a corner where it leads into a corner. He notices something strange in the shadows. He carefully advances on it. Hiding in the shadows is what looks like a small piece of brain. It seems to be moving slightly. Max uses a pen in his jacket to carefully touch it. Suddenly, Max hears a train's HONK HONK behind him. Max spins around. Nothing is there but silence. He turns back to the gray matter. He touches it again. Once again, he hears the deafening HONK HONK. Max spins around, but nothing is there. Frustrated, he pushes his pen deep into the brain - fiber ripping apart. Suddenly, a TRAIN is barreling down on Max. Seconds from impact, Max SCREAMS!!!
DISSOLVE TO: BLINDING WHITE VOID We hear two deep, long sleep-filled breaths and then we CUT
TRANSIT COP: Up, buddy Coney Island, last stop.
TRANSIT COP: Your nose.
JENNA: Max, Max, can we do one.
MAX: Jenna. I can't now, Jenna.
JENNA: Please, Max.
MAX: I'm working now, later okay?
LENNY MEYER: Hello, this is Lenny?
MAX: Lenny, it's Max Cohen.
LENNY MEYER: Max! How are you? You want to come down?
MAX: I've been thinking about our conversation earlier. Max looks into the microscope. He stares at the spirals.
LENNY MEYER: That's good.
MAX: I want to help.
LENNY MEYER: Do you have the Torah in digital form?
MAX: Do you have the Torah in digital form?
EUCLID'S INNARDS: Max uses a drill to rip out some old parts. He lays new wire and does a bunch of soldering. He rips down a bunch of old papers and does a general He also goes to school on the ant population in his apartment. He plants some ant motels and sprays the room with. a pest TIGHT ON MAX writing a : b : : b : a + b. He draws it over a copy of Leonardo Da Vinci's famous drawing of man s anatomy.
DISSOLVE TO: PAN ACROSS NEW EUCLID We start on the stock ticker and pull out to reveal a leaner, meaner and more exciting machine.
MAX: Marcy Dawson.
MAX: Max Cohen.
MARCY DAWSON: Mr. Cohen? I'm so Look what do you want for the chip?
MAX: Look what do you want for the chip?
MARCY DAWSON: You tech guys. I think you know what we want.
MAX: No, I don't.
MARCY DAWSON: C'mon, Mr. Cohen. We can work together We can both profit from this information. We both need each other to get it, so why not work with us?
MAX: I don't know if I'll find anything useful.
MARCY DAWSON: We're willing to take the risk.
MAX: Okay. First, I want you to call off the surveillance.
MARCY DAWSON: ( Beat ) Done. Anything else?
MAX: Yeah, I'm a very private person. Knock on my door and leave the suitcase outside. I don't want to talk to Anyone.
MARCY DAWSON: How do I know you're home?
MAX: I'll knock back.
MARCY DAWSON: Fair enough.
LENNY MEYER: The Torah.
MAX: What is it?
LENNY MEYER: In Hebrew characters and numbers.
MAX: No, what is it? The two hundred and sixteen digits.
LENNY MEYER: I don't know. If you get it, maybe we can figure it out. Can you really find it?
MAX: If the number's in there, I'll find it.
FARROUHK: There you go, dork. Been thinking about my girlfriend. Haven't you?
MAX: You want to fuck her, don't you?
FARROUHK: You want to fuck her, don't you?
MAX: No, no..
FARROUHK: You calling my girlfriend ugly!? Why don't you want to fuck her? You think she's No, no, I just. It's that she's your girl.
MAX: No, no, I just. It's that she's your girl.
FARROUHK: So you do want to fuck her. You think about fucking her in the mouth, don't you?
MAX: No, no, sir, please. I've never touched Devi.I never will.
FARROUHK: Give the fucking genius a Mars bar. Stay away, or I'll slice off your balls.
MAX: ( To himself ) Max peeks through the peephole. Two well-dressed large men, BRAD and ABE THE BABE, wait for the signal. MAX knocks and the suits leave. Then Max shyly opens up his front door and quickly grabs the black attaché case in front of his door Donning a surgical mask and latex gloves, Max opens the black attaché case. Sitting in foam is a tiny but beautiful chip. Max studies it with awe.
MAX: Happy birthday, Euclid.
MAX: Oh God. Damn religious The holy Torah.
MAX: Ah God.
THE BATHROOM: Max dry heaves in the sink. Then he forces himself to stand in front of the mirror.
MAX: Too much.too soon.
MAX: He grabs a bottle of medicine but knocks them an into the He cuts his finger as be grabs one of the broken bottles. He loads the gun and fires the medicine into his arm. A wave of pain and nausea floods in. He grabs another bottle and fires it into his arm. Then he fires another and another. Frustrated he collapses into the mirror.
MAX: Stop, please, stop.
MAX: What the?
MAX: What is it!? What is it!?
MAX: Two.two hundred. That's it! That's it!
MAX: We move closer and closer into the number, deeper and deeper into the screen. Until finally a single pixel fills the screen and we're in the BLINDING WHITE VOID where we hear several deep peaceful Then, a fuse blows and we cut to:
BLACK: A phone ringing.once. twice.then we hear
MAX: What happened?
DEVI: You were screaming.
MRS. OVADIA: Who told you you can put extra locks on the door.
FARROUHK: ( To Mrs. OVADIA ) ( Suddenly jolting up and remembering ) The number, the number.
MAX: ( Suddenly jolting up and remembering ) The number, the number.
MRS. OVADIA: You're out, you hear me, you're out. I've had enough of you. Look at all this junk.
MAX: seven.It's in my head, it's in my head. Somehow I memorized it. I got it up He points to his head.
MAX: But what is it?
DEVI: Are you okay?
MRS. OVADIA: What is this stuff? What does it do?
MAX: 0ut, out, you have to get out. Get out, get out it's my Let's go.
FARROUHK: ( To Devi ) Let's go.
MRS. OVADIA: That's it, no way. You're the one out of here, mister.
MAX: Out! 0utt
DEVI: Are you okay?
MAX: Out! Get out!
MAX: Max gets up to squash it. But as he gets closer he suddenly feels mercy. He looks at the ant in awe. And then, his attention switches to the ticker.
MAX: Two and a quarter, twelve and an eighth, six and two Max states the numbers right before they enter onto the I know these.Seven and a quarter. Two and a half Max strains to figure out what is going an. Suddenly, he's overwhelmed with fear.
MAX: I know these.Seven and a quarter. Two and a half Max strains to figure out what is going an. Suddenly, he's overwhelmed with fear.
MAX: My God. It's gonna crash, it's gonna fucking INT. SOL'S APARTMENT - DUSK Max charges into the room. Sot is looking at his Go board. Sol looks up when Max comes in.
SOL: You're early. I was just studying our. What did you do to yourself?
MAX: You lied to me.
SOL: I thought you were going to take a break.
MAX: You found the two sixteen number in Pi, didn't you? You saw it.
MAX: I saw it, Sol. I don't know what happened, but I know things. The market is going to crash. It's going to crash. It hasn't yet, but I know it will. I saw it, Sol. What is it, Sol? What's the Sol sighs. He looks down at the board and collects himself.
SOL: You have it?
MAX: It's in my head!
SOL: ( Leveling with Max ) Okay, sit down. Max does.
SOL: I gave up before I pinpointed it. But my guess is that certain problems cause computers to get stuck in a particular loop. The loop leads to meltdown, but right before they crash they. they become "aware" of their own structure. The computer has a sense of its own silicon nature and it prints out its ingredients.
MAX: The computer becomes conscious?
SOL: In some ways.I guess.
MAX: ( To himself ) Studying the pattern made Euclid conscious of itself. Before it died it spit out the number That consciousness is the number.
SOL: No, Max, it's only a nasty bug.
SOL: A door in front of a cliff. You're driving yourself over the edge. You need to stop.
MAX: Stop? How can I stop? I'm this close.
SOL: The bug doesn't only destroy computers.
MAX: What are you saying?
SOL: Look what it did to your computer. Look what it's doing to you.
SOL: It's killing you. Leave it You were afraid of it. That's why you quit.
MAX: ( Clarity ) You were afraid of it. That's why you quit.
SOL: Max, I got burnt.
MAX: C'mon, Sol.
SOL: It caused my stroke.
MAX: That's bullshit. It's math, numbers, ideas. Mathematicians are suppose to be out on the edge. You taught me that!
SOL: Max, there's more than math! There's a whole world.
MAX: That's where discoveries happen. We have to go out there alone, all alone, no one can accompany us. We have to search the edge. We have to risk it all. But you ran from it. You're a coward.
SOL: Max, it's death!
MAX: You can't tell me what it is. You don't know You've retreated to your goldfish, to your books, to your Go, but you're not satisfied.
SOL: Get out! Max, get out!
MAX: I want to understand it. I want to know! Sol swings his cane as Max heads for the door.
SOL: INT. SUBWAY - PORT AUTHORITY - NIGHT Max paces on a downtown train as it pulls into 42nd Street. Through the open doors, Max notices a YOUNG PHOTOGRAPHER in jeans and a leather jacket photographing him from the uptown Max is enraged and screams at him. The man ducks behind a column, but a few moments later he's back snapping pictures. The doors start to shut, but Max uses his body to get off the train. The Photographer sees him coming and flees. Max follows the man's movement on his platform. When the young man shoots up the exit stairs, Max does so as well. Max catches a glimpse of his foe entering the catacombs heading toward Times Square. Max pursues. Max chases him down a looooong passage. But he loses him at an underground five-way fork in the road. One staircase is Uptown and Queens. another is Brooklyn.one other is unlabeled. Still enraged, Max marches forward Just then, he catches a glimpse of the Photographer exiting the station.
SMASH TO: EXT. TIMES SQUARE - NEON NIGHT In the heart of New York, Max spins around searching for his His frustration mounts until out of the comer of his eye he sees a strange reflection. Not knowing what it's of, he turns around to see the source The reflection is from a giant, brilliant stock ticker - 50 yards long and luminous. Max stares at the quotes They are hypnotizing and Max is suddenly calm. Then, Max has a premonition. He turns and spots the Photographer in front of a porn shop on Eighth and 42nd.
MAX: Who are you working for?
PHOTOGRAPHER: Here, here.
MAX: I don't want your wallet. Who sent you?
MAX: Who the hell sent you!?
PHOTOGRAPHER: Wha.I'm sorry.
MAX: Who are you?!
PHOTOGRAPHER: I'm.a.student I've got an assignment for class.
MAX: Leave me alone, damn it. Leave me alone. Max hands the man back his camera and leaves.
MAX: Marcy? What's up?
MARCY DAWSON: Let's take a ride, Max.
MAX: I can't, I got work.
MARCY DAWSON: We had a deal! NOW get in the limo!
MAX: Don't ever hit.
BODEGA: The tough guys chase after him and he gets a bit of a lead in the narrow aisles. He pleads with the owners for help - nothing doing. Jake heads him off and uses his body to block the aisle. But Max grabs a can of beans and slams it down on the tough guy's nose. The guy goes down and Max shoots out the exit.
MARCY DAWSON: Enough, Max, c'mon out.
MAX: Leave me alone. I don't know anything. Max retreats in the opposite direction. Suddenly Jake and Brad grab him and drag him out.
MAX: Hey! Hey! Hey!
MARCY DAWSON: You're responsible for this.
MAX: I didn't do anything. I didn't play the market.
MARCY DAWSON: But we did.
MARCY DAWSON: You have to be careful where you throw out your trash.
MAX: How could you do that?
MARCY DAWSON: You gave us faulty information. You gave us the carrot, the right picks, but then you only gave us part of the code.
MAX: You selfish, irresponsible cretins. How could you be so Marcy jabs Max in his stomach. Max falls to the ground. The tough guys sit on him.
MARCY DAWSON: C'mon, Max. This isn't a game anymore. We're playing on a global scale. We used your code. Foolish.I admit. But we can fix things if we make some careful picks. Give us the rest of the code so we can set things right.
MAX: C'mon! I know who you are. You're not gonna save the world.
MARCY DAWSON: Look, Max.
MAX: My God, what are you doing?
MARCY DAWSON: Information is the private language of Capital. We tried to establish a symbiotic relationship but if you choose to compete and enter our niche we are forced to comply with the laws of Max thinks for a second. Max thinks hard. He realizes be can't give them the number.
MAX: You can't kill me!
MARCY DAWSON: C'mon, Max. You don't get it. I don't give a shit about you. I only care about what's in your fucking head. If you won't help us help yourself, then I'll have only one choice. Destroy the competition. I'll take you out of the game. Survival of the fittest, Max. And we've got the gun.
MAX: You bastards! You stupid Suddenly, Jake is whacked with a sawed-off baseball bat. He smashes into the sidewalk. It is Farrouhk, Max's neighbor, who's just pulled up in his Farroukh threatens Marcy and the other tough guy, who retreat in fear. Farroubk is afraid as well, so he doesn't quite leap on them. He just keeps swinging the bat.
MAX: ( Spotting his savior ) Farroukh threatens Marcy and the other tough guy, who retreat in fear. Farroubk is afraid as well, so he doesn't quite leap on them. He just keeps swinging the bat.
FARROUHK: He's sick! He's sick!
LENNY MEYER: Max looks at Farrouhk and then he looks at Lenny. Ephraim grabs Max and pulls him toward the station wagon.
MAX: ( To Farrouhk ) Farrouhk heads for his cab. Ephraim helps Max into the backseat of the wagon and climbs in after him. Lenny Meyer jumps into the passenger seat and the gray-bearded YISRAEL slams on the gas Pedal. Farrouhk jumps into his cab.
MAX: Farrouhk what about Farrouhk!?
LENNY MEYER: Stay down!
MAX: Go back!
LENNY MEYER: He's okay, he got in his cab. We've been looking for you.
MAX: What's going on?
LENNY MEYER: Do you have the number?
MAX: What's going on?
LENNY MEYER: Do you have the number?
MAX: Yeah, I have it!
LENNY MEYER: You have it. Where is it? You have it written down?
MAX: What is it?
MAX: What are you doing!? What the hell are you doing!?
LENNY MEYER: We're not joking around, Max? Where's the number?
MAX: ( Pushing Ephraim away ) It's not on me. It's in my You memorized it? Did you give it to them?
LENNY MEYER: You memorized it? Did you give it to them?
MAX: LENNY MEYER Who!? Those Wall Street bastards.
LENNY MEYER: Who!? Those Wall Street bastards.
MAX: Why do you care?
LENNY MEYER: Just answer me!
MAX: Screw you!
LENNY MEYER: ( In Hebrew ) Hit him!
LENNY MEYER: You're dealing with something really big now, Max. I don't want to hurt you, so answer me. Did you give it to them?
MAX: They've got part of it Now get off me!
LENNY MEYER: Damn it! Damn it! They're using it.
MAX: Using what?
LENNY MEYER: Shut up!
MAX: Let go!
LENNY MEYER: No, don't!
RAV COHEN: Max, Max. You're okay I'm Rabbi Cohen. Cohen like you. I'm sorry for what Lenny did, he's been reprimanded. It is not our way Are you okay?
MAX: Yeah, yeah
RAV COHEN: Everything will be fine, Max. You need to give us the number. Do you have What is it?
MAX: What is it?
LENNY MEYER: ( Charging over ) I told you we don't know
MAX: You wouldn't be so flipped out if you didn't know. What's happening to me?
LENNY MEYER: Give us the number!
MAX: Screw you!
RAV COHEN: Okay, okay! Lenny, easy! Max, I'll tell you what's going on. Just calm The Talmud tells us it began two thousand years ago, when the Romans destroyed the second What are you.
MAX: What are you.
RAV COHEN: Just give me a chance. You'll understand everything if you listen.
RAV COHEN: The Romans also murdered all of our priest- hood—the Cohanim—the Cohens, and with their deaths they destroyed our greatest secret. In the center of the great temple was the holy of holies which was the heart of Jewish life. This was the earthly residence for our God. The one God. It contained the ark of the Tabernacle which stored the original Ten Commandments that God gave to Moses. Only one man could enter this space once a year on the holiest day of the year, Yom Kippur On the Day of Atonement, all of Israel would descend upon Jerusalem to witness the High Cohen's trip into the holy of holies. If the holy man was pure he would reemerge a few moments later and Israel was secured a prosperous year. It meant that we were one yea r closer to the messianic age. Closer to the return of the Garden of Eden. But if he was impure, he would die instantly and it meant that we were doomed. The High Cohen had a single ritual to perform in the holy of holies. He had to intone a single Rav Cohen takes a dramatic pause. Max is anxious to hear the end of the story.
MAX: RAV COHEN That word was the true name of God.
RAV COHEN: That word was the true name of God.
MAX: RAV COHEN The true name, which only the Cohanim knew, was two hundred and sixteen letters A long beat.
RAV COHEN: The true name, which only the Cohanim knew, was two hundred and sixteen letters A long beat.
MAX: ( Incredulous ) You're telling me that the number in my head is the name of God!? Wondrously, Max rubs the scar on his head.
RAV COHEN: ( Passion building ) Yes.it's The key into the messianic age. As the Romans burned the temple, the Talmud says, the High Cohen walked into the flames. He took his secret to the top of the burning building. The heavens opened up and took the key from the priest's outstretched hand. We've been searching for the key ever since. And you may have found it. Now let us find out.
MAX: That's what happened. I saw God.
RAV COHEN: No, no, Max. You're not pure. You can't see God unless you're pure.
MAX: It's more than God. it s everything. It's math and science and nature. the universe. I saw the Universe's DNA
RAV COHEN: You saw nothing.
MAX: I saw everything.
RAV COHEN: There's much more. We can unlock the door with the key. It will show God that we are pure again. He will return us to The Garden.
MAX: Garden? You're not pure. I'm the one who has the Who do you think you are? You are a vessel from our God. You are carrying a delivery that needs to be made to us.
RAV COHEN: Who do you think you are? You are a vessel from our God. You are carrying a delivery that needs to be made to us.
MAX: It was given to me. It's part of me. It's changing me.
RAV COHEN: It's killing you. Because you are impure.
LENNY MEYER: It will kill you!
MAX: And what will it do to We're pure. Give us the number!
LENNY MEYER: We're pure. Give us the number!
MAX: The number is nothing. You know that!
RAV COHEN: We can use it. We can wield it.
MAX: It's just a number. I'm sure you've written down every two hundred sixteen number. You've translated all of them. You've intoned them all. Haven't you? But what's it gotten you? It's not the number! It's the meaning. It's the syntax. It's what's between the numbers. If you could understand you would. But it's not for you! I've got it. I understand it. I'm going to see it! Rabbi.I was chosen.
JENNY ROBESON: Can I help you?
MAX: ( Confused ) Were you a friend?
JENNY ROBESON: Were you a friend?
MAX: What do you mean?
JENNY ROBESON: He had a second stroke.
MAX: Where is he?
MAX: Max rushes into Sol s study. The room is covered with Sol's P, research books. It seems Sol had recently come out of retirement. Max looks at a few of Sol's books. Then he finds a piece of paper with Sol's handwriting on it. On the paper is THE number. Max slides it into his pocket. Max looks at the Go board. The pieces are arranged in a giant spiral across the board.
DISSOLVE TO: INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - DAY Max sits on his bed staring at Sol's handwritten number. Then he notices that his thumb is twitching. He drops Sol's He dumps the contents of the bottle of pills into his hand. Max stops as he prepares to shove the pills down his throat. He looks at the pills. Then he looks at Euclid around him. He throws the pills and the bottle to the floor. They fall to earth in SLOW MOTION. The room rushes in on Max and so does the pain. It throws him to the ground and he bashes his head against the floor.
MAX: Stop it, please! He dumps the contents of the bottle of pills into his hand. Max stops as he prepares to shove the pills down his throat. He looks at the pills. Then he looks at Euclid around him. He throws the pills and the bottle to the floor. They fall to earth in SLOW MOTION. The room rushes in on Max and so does the pain. It throws him to the ground and he bashes his head against the floor.
MAX: ( Courageously ) No. No. I'm ready. I'm ready! Show me! Max recites THE number and uses it to get to his feet. The pain rips apart his voice. Max's pain and anger transform into violence. He attacks Euclid furiously. He recites the number with rage in his Three, seven, two.
MAX: Three, seven, two.
DEVI: Breathe, Max! Breathe. Max turns away from Devi and we return to the
MAX: Where am I? What is this? This is wrong, Sol. Max lets out a 'SOL!, and reaches out into the void. We match cut back to
MAX: Sol! You were right Sol! He was right.
DEVI: That's right Max. That's Right. Breathe. Breathe.
MAX: He was right. I want to breathe. Breathe.
DEVI: Yes, breathe, Max. Max sobs. He holds onto her for dear life And then be realizes that Devi is not in his arms. He is holding onto himself. Then Max notices Sol's note on the ground. He looks at the number. He collects himself and catches his breath.
CUT TO: EXT. CITY PLAYGROUND - DAY TIGHT ON a tree branch gently blowing in the wind. Max watches it with peaceful, understanding eyes. He wears a hat on his head. He listens to the wind in the trees. Just then, Jenna surprises him with her Fisher Price calculator on hand.
TIGHT ON: a tree branch gently blowing in the wind. Max watches it with peaceful, understanding eyes. He wears a hat on his head. He listens to the wind in the trees. Just then, Jenna surprises him with her Fisher Price calculator on hand.
JEHNA: Max, Max!
JENNA: Can we do one, Max, can Max shrugs, not able to say no.
JENNA: How about two hundred and fifty-five times a hundred and eighty-three.
JENNA: I got it! I got it! What's the answer?
MAX: ( Smiling and then laughing ) I don't know. I really don't know. What is it, Jenna?
JENNA: Forty-six thousand six hundred and sixty-five.
MAX: The trees blow gently in the wind as we slowly FADE TO WHITE which brings us to
THE END: Writers : Darren Aronofsky
