SHOOTING SCRIPT: May 5, 1967
FADE IN: 1 EXT. CONSTELLATION OF ORION - NIGHT
ASTRONAUT'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) So ends my last signal until we reach our destination. We are now on automatic, a mere hundred and five light years from our base . and at the mercy of com- puters. I've tucked in my crew for the long sleep. I'll join them presently.
ASTRONAUT: Within the hour we shall complete the sixth month of our flight from Cape Kennedy. By our time, that is . He pauses, looking up at:
ASTRONAUT'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) But according to Dr. Hasslein theory of time in a vehicle traveling at close to the speed of light, old Mother Earth has aged a few thousand years since our de- parture while we have scarcely aged at all.
TAYLOR: It may be so. This much is probable: the men who sent us on this journey have long since been moldering in forgotten graves; and those, if any, who read this message are a different breed. Hopefully, a better one. He begins to roll up his left sleeve.
TAYLOR: I leave the twentieth century without regret. Who was it? Marshall? . said 'Modern man is the missin 'a link between the ape and the human being.' He removes the cigar from his mouth, turns to look out through one of the portholes into the astral night.
TAYLOR: One final thought nothing scientific, purely personal. Seen from up here, everything looks different . Time bends and space is boundless. It squashes a man's ego. He begins to feel like no more than a mote in the eye of eternity. And he is nagged by a question: ahat if any- thing, will greet us on the end of man's first journey to a star? Are we to believe that throughout these thousands of galaxies, these millions of stars, only one, that speck of solar dust we call Earth, has been graced or cursed by human life? I have to doubt it. He extracts a hypodermic needle from his breast pocket and injects it into the vein of his forearm. He continues speaking.
TAYLOR: ( sardonically ) That's about all. I wonder if Man, that marvel of the universe, that glorious paradox who has sent me to the unknown. still makes war against his brother., and lets his neighbor's children starve. Taylor withdraws the hypodermic needle from his vein and secures it in a drawer of the console.
TAYLOR: Well then, Earthmen: A missing link salutes you. Bless you, my descendants. Taylor snuffs out the cigar butt and places it in the drawer beside the hypodermic. Then, flicking a switch Au cut off the Mozart, he rises and looks up again at:
TAYLOR'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) You all right? They nod.
TAYLOR: ( struggling to his feet ) 21 CLOSE-SHOT THE FOURTH CASKET Its dome remains unopened. The young woman is a skeleton in a Churchill suit.
TAYLOR: There goes our primary power. We're on A slight CRACKING sound is heard. Taylor turns quickly away and o.s.:
TAYLOR'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) We're in the soup. We're sinking.
TAYLOR: Dodge! Read the atmosphere! Dodge moves instantly to the ladder beneath an escape hatch and mounts it. Taylor stumbles down the aisle of the rolling ship toward the console and addresses Landon, who is still staring at Stewart's Landon! Send a last signal.
TAYLOR: Landon! Send a last signal.
LANDON: ( dazed ) What signal?
TAYLOR: To Earth! That we've landed! As Landon lurches toward the communications equipment in f.g.
DODGE: It's breathable.
TAYLOR'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) Okay! Blow the hatch before we lose auxilliary power. Dodge reaches for a control mechanism near the escape hatch.
LANDON: It's no use . there she goes.
TAYLOR: Forget it. Abandon ship.
DODGE: ( half to himself ) Briny.twenty-five percent salinity. Near the saturation point.
LANDON: ( looking back ) She's still sinking.
LANDON'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) Going . going. The craft vanishes beneath the water.
LANDON: ( flatly ) We're here to stay.
TAYLOR: ( flatly ) We're here to stay.
LANDON: Well? Where are we? Have any notion, We're some three hundred and twenty light years from Earth. On an unnamed planet in orbit around a star in the constellation of Orion. That could be Bellatrix.
TAYLOR: ( confidently ) We're some three hundred and twenty light years from Earth. On an unnamed planet in orbit around a star in the constellation of Orion. ( looks off at the "sun" ) That could be Bellatrix.
DODGE'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) Too red for Bellatrix.
LANDON: You didn't have time to check the tapes, so you don't really know, do you? What went wrong? We weren't programmed to land in water.
DODGE: ( grinning ) The question, Landon, is not so much where we are as when we are.
TAYLOR: ( stands up in raft ) We've had a nice snooze. Let's start earning all our back pay.
TAYLOR: Take your soil test, Dodge. I'll check the equipment. Dodge moves inland about ten yards, removes a small hand drill from his belt, extends the rod of the drill three feet and begins to take some subsoil samplings. Taylor begins to examine the contents of the three rucksacks. Landon sits down on the beach., hands around his knees, gazing moodily at the sunken spaceship. During this and succeeding scenes we sense that Dodge's obsession with scientific inquiry leaves him immune to fear: Landon is possibly more courageous and certainly more "human," for he has many fears to control: while Taylor detached, cool and misanthropic is something of an enigma.
TAYLOR: ( calls Dodge ) Got your sensors?
DODGE: Geiger counter?
TAYLOR: Geiger counter?
DODGE: ( taking inventory ) One pistol. twenty-four rounds of ammo. two medical kits.. one camera. one TX9. ( loudly to the others ) We've enough food and water for three But how long is a day?
TAYLOR: ( taking inventory ) One pistol. twenty-four rounds of ammo. two medical kits.. one camera. one TX9. ( loudly to the others ) We've enough food and water for three But how long is a day?
DODGE: But how long is a day?
TAYLOR: Good question. Landon check your communications 39 ANOTHER ANGLE - FAVORING LANDON He seems not to have heard.
TAYLOR: ( sharply ) Landon! Join the expedition.
LANDON: ( rising ) ( crossing to his kit ) I was thinking of Stewart. What d'you suppose happened?
TAYLOR: ( flatly ) Air leak. Died in her sleep.
LANDON: You don't seem very cut up about It's a little late for a wake. She's been dead nearly a year.
TAYLOR: It's a little late for a wake. She's been dead nearly a year.
LANDON: Then we've been away from Earth for eighteen months.
TAYLOR: By our time. You've turned gray. Landon involuntarily touches the gray hair of his temple as Taylor adds lightly:
TAYLOR: Apart from that, you look pretty chipper for a man who's two thousand and thirty one years old. I read the clocks. They bear out Hasslein's hypothesis. We've been away from Earth for two thousand years, give or take a decade. Still can't accept it, huh?
LANDON: long pause ) You know it.
TAYLOR: Because time has wiped out everyone and everything you cared for they're dust.
LANDON: Prove it. If we can't get back, it's still just a theory.
TAYLOR: It's a fact, Landon. Buy it. You'll sleep Dodge enters scene. A handful of reddish sand dribbles through his Nothing will grow here .. there's just a trace of hydrocarbons, and most of the nitrogen is locked into nitrates.
DODGE: Nothing will grow here .. there's just a trace of hydrocarbons, and most of the nitrogen is locked into nitrates.
TAYLOR: Any sign of dangerous ionization?
DODGE: ( rising ) Okay. If there's no life here, we've got just seventy-two hours to find it. That's when the groceries run out. He picks up one of the rucksacks and puts it on. The others follow Which direction?
TAYLOR: ( rising ) Okay. If there's no life here, we've got just seventy-two hours to find it. That's when the groceries run out. He picks up one of the rucksacks and puts it on. The others follow Which direction?
DODGE: Which direction?
TAYLOR: ( decisively, pointing west ) That way.
DODGE: Any particular reason?
TAYLOR: None at all. He moves out. Dodge follows. CAMERA PANS with them. They have gone only a few paces when Taylor looks back over his shoulder and halts.
TAYLOR: Everybody all right? Murmurs of assent from Dodge and Landon. Taylor rummages through a limp rucksack, comes up with some empty food cartons,rummages again, coming up with a cigar butt.
TAYLOR: Water check. Dodge takes a plastic canteen from another rucksack and inspects it.
DODGE: Eight ounces. Dodge lies back and looks up at the sky.
DODGE: It doesn't add up. There's a mantle of dust around this planet and yet it's as humid as a jungle. Thunder and lightning and yet no rain. Cloud cover every night and that strange luminosity, and yet no moon. Landon also looks up at the sky.
LANDON: If only we could get a fix.
TAYLOR: ( needling him ) What would you learn? I've told you where you are and when you are.
DODGE: ( gently ) Taylor quit riding him.
TAYLOR: ( harshly, to Landon ) You're more than three hundred light years from your precious planet. Your loved ones have been dead and forgotten for twenty centuries. Even if you could get back, they'd think you were something that fell out of a tree.
LANDON: ( wearily ) All right
TAYLOR: There's only one reality left. We're here and it's now. You get ahold of that and hang on tight, or you might as well be dead.
LANDON: ( quietly ) I'm prepared to die. Taylor turns to Dodge, throws up his hands.
TAYLOR: He's prepared to die! Doesn't that make you misty? Chalk up another victory for the human spirit! Dodge rises and moves off, o.s., either embarrassed by this colloquy or unwilling to hear it again. Taylor, cigar clamped between his teeth, spins toward Landon.
TAYLOR: Straighten me out on something. Why did you come along at all? You volunteered. I'll tell you. They nominated you for the Big One and you couldn't turn it down. Not without losing your All-American standing
LANDON: ( hard ) Climb off me, will you!
TAYLOR: And the glory, don't forget that. There's a life-sized bronze statue of you somewhere. It's probably turned green by now, and nobody can read the name plate. But never let it be said we forget our heroes.
LANDON: Taylor. I'm telling you
TAYLOR: Oh, and one last item. Immortality. You wanted to go on forever. Well, you damn near made it. Except for Dodge and me, you've lived longer than anybody. And with Stewart dead, it looks like we're the last of the strain. You got what you wanted, kid. How does it taste? Silence. Taylor lies down, spent of his venom, pillowing his head on a rucksack.
LANDON: ( softly ) Okay. You read me well enough. Why can't I read you?
TAYLOR: Don't bother
LANDON: ( looking off ) Dodge . he's not like me at all. But he makes sense. Held walk naked into a live volcano if he thought he could learn something no other man knew. I understand why he's here. But you.You're no seeker. You're negative.
TAYLOR: But I'm not prepared to die.
LANDON: ( heatedly ) I'd like to know why not. You thought life on Earth was meaningless. You despised people. So what did you do? You ran away. Taylor's eyes are closed. He is silent for a moment. When he speaks, his tone is soft, reflective.
TAYLOR: No, not quite, Landon. I'm a bit of a seeker myself. But my dreams are a lot emptier than yours. I can't get rid of the idea that somewhere in the Universe there must be a creature superior to man.
DODGE: Taylor! Over here!
DODGE: He digs gently around the roots of the plant with a small instrument.
DODGE: Where there's one there's another. And another. And another.
TAYLOR: Let's find them all.
DODGE: It's a stream bed., no doubt about it but bone dry. Landon strightens up and looks off, startled by something he sees.
LANDON: Look. . .
LANDON: Let's take a look. Taylor plunges into the thicket of tamarisks, followed by Dodge and Landon. Their view of the cliff is momentarily obscured. CAMERA HOLDS on the distant crosses. For an instant only, three "creatures" again appear on the skyline near the crosses. Then they vanish.
TAYLOR: Let's take a look. Taylor plunges into the thicket of tamarisks, followed by Dodge and Landon. Their view of the cliff is momentarily obscured. CAMERA HOLDS on the distant crosses. For an instant only, three "creatures" again appear on the skyline near the crosses. Then they vanish.
TAYLOR: ( half to himself ) Never mind the scarecrows. He breaks into a run, CAMERA PANNING with him as he moves toward a declivity in the face of the cliff.
DODGE: It's loaded with minerals, but safe. Without further ado Landon ducks his face into the pool. Dodge scoops up water in his hands and drinks. Taylor follows suit.
LANDON: ( coming up for air ) Can we take a dip?
TAYLOR: ( looks around ) Landon and Dodge immediately remove their boots, strip down and plunge into the pool. But Taylor does not yet disrobe. Alert and curious, he strolls along the bank of the pool, looking around.
79 TAYLOR: as he briefly looks around, then starts taking off his shirt.
LANDON'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) Hey, Taylor! Look at this Dodge and Taylor climb out of the pool and squat beside Landon.
ASTRONAUT'S: Little sunlight penetrates this dense vegetation. These SHOTS are INTERCUT with:
LANDON: My God..they look almost human.
DODGE: They there's a herd of them.
TAYLOR: Show them we're friendly. CAMERA PULLS BACK as Taylor advances a few steps into the clearing, extending his empty hands and beaming like a politician.
TAYLOR: ( warmly ) 98 REVERSE - THE STRANGE CREATURES - FROM TAYLOR'S P.O.V. There are perhaps a dozen of them. They shrink back as Taylor advances hostile, frightened or both. We now see that some of them are clutching articles of the astronauts' clothing and equipment. Taylor stops, stares at them glumly.
TAYLOR: No cigar.
LANDON: Try telling them our names. Taylor grimaces at Landon.
TAYLOR: Well, if we're looking for an icebreaker. Listen, folks ... More shrinking back by the frightened primitives.
DODGE: ( softly ) I'm afraid they aren't having any.
DODGE: They didn't leave much did they?
LANDON: Shall we follow them?
TAYLOR: Haven't much choice. As they walk off down the jungle path.
TAYLOR: Well, at least they haven't tried to bite us.
DODGE: Blessed are the vegetarians.
LANDON: We got off at the wrong stop.
TAYLOR: You're our optimist Look at the bright side. If that's the best there is around here, in six months we'll be running this planet.
DODGE: ( suddenly ) 112 THE PRIMITIVES - THEIR P.O.V. They appear to be agitated although neither we nor the astronauts have yet heard or seen any cause for alarm. The primitives get to their feet, sniffing, listening
LANDON: Think they'll attack us? Taylor turns, looks back at:
APE PHOTOGRAPHER: The hunter bares his teeth.
FADE OUT: FADE IN 146 INT. A SURGERY - ANGLING DOWN ON TWO OPERATING TABLES NIGHT The surgery is dimly-lit. ( If possible we should be unaware of the source of illumination. ) Taylor lies strapped to the nearer table. He appears to be unconscious. The young female captive, Nova, is strapped to the table beside him. She is conscious. Taylor is receiving a direct blood transfusion from her. Hovering over Taylor are a NURSE and a surgeon named GALEN. Both are chimpanzees. Galen wears a bloody surgical apron, the nurse a white smock. Galen is removing a filthy bandage from Taylor's neck. A door behind them opens and DR. ZIRA, an animal psychologist, enters. She, too, is a chimpanzee and wears a smock like the nurse's.
FADE IN: 146 INT. A SURGERY - ANGLING DOWN ON TWO OPERATING TABLES NIGHT
ZIRA: Which one was wearing the strange Zira looks down at Taylor.
GALEN: Zira looks down at Taylor.
ZIRA: Will he live?
GALEN: ( irritably ) I don't know. This beast lost a lot of blood. Galen paws through a tray of surgical instruments. The equipment is obsolescent and the room untidy like that of a callous small-town ( to Nurse ) There's no probe here. Find one!
GALEN: ( to Nurse ) There's no probe here. Find one!
NURSE: Yes, sir. She exits. Zira runs a forefinger across a dusty table.Her voice is soft and well-modulated.
ZIRA: This place is dirty, doctor.
GALEN: ( defensively ) These animals are dirty, doctor. They stink, and they carry communicable diseases. Why aren't they cleaned up before they're brought here?
ZIRA'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) You don't sound happy in your work.
GALEN'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) I'm nothing more than a vet in this Taylor feebly turns his head and looks at Nova. She returns his gaze with an unchanged empty stare. We sense that Taylor realizes her blood is flowing into his veins. Over this we hear:
GALEN'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) You promised to speak to Dr. Zaius about me.
ZIRA'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) I did. But you know how he looks down his nose at chimpanzees. Taylor rolls his eyes toward the apes. Weak as he is,we see his astonishment at hearing them talk.
GALEN: But the quota system's been abolished! You made it. Why can't I?
ZIRA: What do you mean, made it? I'm an animal psychologist, that's all. We don't have any authority.
GALEN: You do pretty well when it comes to getting space and equipment.
ZIRA: That's because Dr. Zaius realizes our work has value.
GALEN: The foundations of scientific brain surgery are being laid right here - in studies of cerebral function in these animals.
ZIRA: The foundations of scientific brain surgery are being laid right here - in studies of cerebral function in these animals.
GALEN: They're still dirty. And their bite is septic. Look at that . He shows Zira infected teeth marks on the back of his left hand.
GALEN: ( to Nurse ) Hold his head. The Nurse complies, gripping Taylor's skull with both hands. Galen leans down and begins to probe the throat wound. Taylor passes out.
TAYLOR: ( soundlessly ) Hey! Hey! The three other primitives move toward the bars of their cages. Julius barks at them.
JULIUS: Simmer down! You especially. The third primitive goes back to stacking his blocks. Julius comes up to Taylor's cage, indicates a like set of blocks strewn across its floor, extends his broom handle to whack the banana overhead.
JULIUS: Better give it a try, stupid. Unless you like going hungry. He returns to his sweeping. Taylor glowers at him. A moment later, the door at the end of the aisle opens and Dr. Zira enters.
JULIUS: Good morning, Dr. Zira.
ZIRA: Good morning, Julius. How's our patient No change. The minute you open the door, he goes into his act. She starts down the aisle toward Taylor's cage. He grasps the bars, awaiting her anxiously. As she passes the second cage, the primitive in it shakes the bars, jumps up and down. His tongue is hanging out. Zira smiles, stops, digs into the pocket of her smock.
JULIUS: No change. The minute you open the door, he goes into his act. She starts down the aisle toward Taylor's cage. He grasps the bars, awaiting her anxiously. As she passes the second cage, the primitive in it shakes the bars, jumps up and down. His tongue is hanging out. Zira smiles, stops, digs into the pocket of her smock.
ZIRA: ( playfully ) Well, what do we want this morning? Do we want something? Speak! Come on, speak! The primitive continues to jump up and down energetically. Zira takes a cube of sugar from her pocket, holds it up for his inspection.
ZIRA: Do we want some sugar, old-timer? The man eagerly sticks his hand through the bars. She drops the cube in his hands. He jams it into his mouth.
JULIUS: ( concerned ) You could get hurt doing that, Doctor.
ZIRA: Don't be silly. He's perfectly tame. She moves toward Taylor's cage, Julius behind her.
JULIUS: They're all tame until they take a chunk out of you.
ZIRA: Well, Bright Eyes, is our throat feeling better?
TAYLOR: ( frantic mouthing ) Listen, listen I can speak He winces, puts his hand to the bandage.
ZIRA: ( sympathetically ) Awww, it still hurts, doesn't it?
JULIUS: See? He keeps pretending he can Taylor glares at Julius, slams the bars.
TAYLOR: ( mouthing ) I'm not pretending! I can talk! Zira hurriedly takes a pen and notebook from the breast Docket of her smock, starts to scribble.
ZIRA: ( excitedly ) Did you see that? It's remarkable!
JULIUS: He's trying to form words.
ZIRA: He's trying to form words.
JULIUS: Well, you know what they say. Human see, human do. Taylor is staring in silent fascination at the open and notebook.He stops mouthing, points at them.
JULIUS: Now what? Taylor gestures for Zira to come closer to the bars.
ZIRA: He seems to want something. She advances tentatively toward the cage.
JULIUS: I'd be careful, doctor. Taylor suddenly reaches through the bars, tries to snatch the pen and notebook from Zira. Julius instantly jabs his broom handle through the bars, hitting Taylor in the ribs.
JULIUS: What did I tell you! Try that again, I'll break your arm! Zira draws back, looking at Taylor in surprise.
TAYLOR: ( mouthing ) What's the matter with you? I can talk! Can't you see that? Over this a door is heard opening o.s., and Julius' voice, nervous, JULIUS' VOICE ( o.s. ) Good morning, Your Excellency. Taylor looks o.s.
JULIUS' VOICE: ( o.s. ) Good morning, Your Excellency. Taylor looks o.s.
ZIRA: ( bubbling ) Dr. Zaius, I'm so glad you could come. He's over here. Zaius crosses with them to Taylor's cage. Beneath his austere manner, we sense tension, worry. Zira looks up at Taylor, her tone an appeal.
ZIRA: Bright Eyes, show him! Go ahead! Do your trick! Taylor just glares at her.
ZIRA: Speak! Go on. Speak again.
TAYLOR: ( silent mouthing ) My - name - isn't - Bright Eyes It's There! Can you believe it? I looks like he's talking.
ZIRA: There! Can you believe it? I looks like he's talking.
ZAIUS: ( evenly ) Yes, amusing. A man who acts like an ape. Taylor turns to Zaius.
TAYLOR: ( silent mouthing ) I'm not acting! I can talk! How much proof do you want?
ZIRA: ( thunderstruck ) Dr. Zaius, I could have sworn he was answering you!
ZAIUS: ( nodding, but unmoved ) He shows a definite gift for mimicry. Zira wiggles her fingers excitedly.
ZIRA: I wonder how held score on a Hopkins manual dexterity test? Zaius' voice is quiet, but there is steel in it.
ZAIUS: An animal?
JULIUS: Taylor is frantically wiggling his fingers.
ZIRA: He's moving his fingers!
ZAIUS: Of course. He saw you moving yours.
ZIRA: But perhaps he understood
ZAIUS' VOICE: ( o.s., hard ) Man has no understanding, Dr. Zira. He can be taught a few simple tricks. Nothing more.
ZIRA'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) I beg to disagree. According to my exper- 161-B CLOSE - ZAIUS A warning burns out of his eyes as he stares at Taylor.
ZAIUS: A word to the wise, Dr. Zira. Experimental brain surgery on these creatures is one thing. I'm all for it.
ZAIUS: But your behavioral studies are another matter entirely. To suggest that we can learn something about simian nature from a study of man is nonsense. Besides, men are a nuisance. They outgrow their own food supply in the forest and migrate to our green belts and ravage our The sooner they're exterminated, the better. He turns toward the door. A disappointed Zira follows him. Zaius looks back at Taylor just before going out.
ZAIUS: It's a question of simian survival.
APE GUARD: Is this the one you wanted, Doctor?
ZIRA'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) Yes, thank you. ( pause, her voice much closer ) Bright Eyes? Taylor looks up.
ZIRA'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) I've got a present for you.
ZIRA: Put her in with him. Julius unlocks the cage door-, leads Nova inside, removes her leash and collar. Taylor has gotten to his feet. Julius goes out, locking the door behind him. Nova hesitates, then slowly reaches out, takes Taylor's hand. Zira beams at them.
CORNELIUS: Do you have to work tonight?
ZIRA: Neither do I. He gives her a quick peck on the cheek.
CORNELIUS: Neither do I. He gives her a quick peck on the cheek.
ZIRA: That's Bright Eyes. The one I was telling you about.
CORNELIUS: What's so special about him?
ZIRA: ( to Taylor ) Hello, Bright Eyes. How's our throat today? Taylor stares at her impassively, then looks around to a that no guards are watching, hunkers down, begins to scratch in the dust. Nova extends unclean fingers to touch the bandage on his throat. Taylor flinches, pushes her hand away. Nova touches a bluish bruise on the inside of her own forearm, then searches for a similar bruise on Taylor's forearm.
ZIRA: ( excited ) Look she remembers.
CORNELIUS: Remembers what?
ZIRA: The blood transfusion.
CORNELIUS: ( peeved ) Zira, come on. You know they ( he stops, looking off ) Oh oh. Here comes Number One. Taylor looks up and o.s., quickly rises.
ZIRA: ( in a whisper, to Cornelius ) Something's bothering him. He's been prying around the lab for the last two days .
ZIRA: ( as Zaius comes nearer ) Good morning, Dr. Zaius. You know Dr. Cornelius, my fiance. Cornelius bows respectfully. Zaius is patronizingly polite.
ZAIUS: Oh, yes the young ape with a shovel. I hear you're planning another archeological expedition.
CORNELIUS' VOICE: ( o.s. ) Yes, sir. If the academy agrees.
ZAIUS' VOICE: ( o.s. ) The project will require my support, of 176 MED. CLOSE SHOT - ANGLING DOWN ON TAYLOR AND NOVA A primitive male squats down to see what Taylor has marked on the ground. In letters a foot high he has written:
CORNELIUS' VOICE: ( o.s. ) I hope I can count on it, sir.
ZAIUS' VOICE: ( o.s ) A friendly warning, Cornelius when you're digging for artifacts, don't bury your reputation. Taylor slugs the snarling male, who wades in, trying to bite him.
A VOICE: ( o.s. ) 177 WIDER ANGLE - THE FIGHT Two gorilla guards rush in to break up the fight. One of them lashes out with his whip. The other pokes his torch at Taylor. Its flame brushes his arm. Taylor opens his mouth, gives a silent yell of pain, shrinks back. Zira runs to the fence.
ZIRA: ( to guards ) Stop! You've hurt him! Take them inside! Prodding the malcreants with their torches, the two guards herd them toward a doorway in the wall. Zira hurries around the side of the fence and o.s.
ZAIUS: Cornelius, if you have a moment today, I'd like to discuss this expedition of yours in more detail.
CORNELIUS: ( eagerly ) Certainly, sir. I'll get my notes and come right over. He exits hurriedly. The Hunt Club Leader turns to Zaius.
ZAIUS: That man can be domesticated. The hunter guffaws. Zaius turns away and looks down at:
I CAN: Zaius' extended foot appears beneath the bottom wire of the fence. The foot wipes out the letters.
JULIUS: What happened?
ZIRA: Those fools and their torches! Do you have any ointment?
JULIUS: I'll see. He moves to a cabinet at the other end of the laboratory, rummages through some drawers.
ZIRA: I'm sorry, Bright Eyes.
JULIUS: I told you what you'd get!
ZIRA: ( pleading ) Julius, don't. It doesn't matter. Julius swings his-club at Taylor's head. Taylor lifts his right arm to ward off the blow, and the stick strikes him sharply on the hand. He drops the pen and notebook. The guard swings again, driving Taylor to the wall. Then Julius retrieves the stolen articles.
JULIUS: Natural born thieves, aren't they? Zira glances at the notebook. Her face clouds.
ZIRA: Get me a collar and leash. I'm taking him to the infirmary.
JULIUS: He's vicious, Doctor. Besides, it's against the rules.
ZIRA: Do as I say. The guard shrugs and moves Off 0.3. Zira beckons to Taylor. He comes forward to the bars of the cage.
ZIRA: ( sotto voce ) You wouldn't hurt me, would you. Taylor?
CORNELIUS: ( stubbornly ) It's a stunt. Humans don't write.
ZIRA: Dear, you're a scientist. Don't you believe your own eyes?
CORNELIUS: ( to Taylor ) Where did you learn to do this?
CORNELIUS: Jefferson Public School, Fort Wayne, He looks at Taylor narrowly. Taylor nods.
CORNELIUS: ( sardonically ) Back on that planet you say you came from? ( Taylor nods again ) ( to Zira ) He may be intelligent, but he's also mad. Taylor scribbles something else on the pad, hands it to Zira, points at ( reads aloud ) 'And you're a fool'. She smiles. Cornelius bristles.
ZIRA: ( reads aloud ) 'And you're a fool'. She smiles. Cornelius bristles.
CORNELIUS: Now, just a minute
ZIRA: Oh, Cornelius, be quiet. Taylor has resumed writing. He hands the sheet to Zira, who reads 'Dodge was killed in the hunt. What happened to Landon?' I don't know.
ZIRA: 'Dodge was killed in the hunt. What happened to Landon?' I don't know.
CORNELIUS: ( scornfully ) And they fell out of the sky with you? Taylor writes quickly, hands the note to Zira.
ZIRA: ( reading ) 'Not fell flew!' Taylor impatiently begins to fold a sheet of paper.
CORNELIUS: Flight is a scientific impossibility.
ZIRA: And even if it weren't, why fly? Where would it get you? Taylor points to the floor and mouths the word "Here." He flings the paper plane he has just fashioned into the air. It describes a graceful arc around the room and lands at the feet of Cornelius, who slowly picks it up, then exchanges a long glance with Zira.
CORNELIUS: ( softly ) Well, now. Taylor scribbles on a piece of paper, hands it to Zira.
ZIRA: ( reading ) 'Do you have maps?' Cornelius puts the paper plane on his desk, crosses to a wall map designed like a window shade. He pulls it down Taylor and Zira join him at the map.
CORNELIUS: We are here . You were captured about here. Taylor studies the map, then pointing at the lake in the eastern desert, he goes into a brief charade, dramatizing the astronauts' landing and trek.
ZIRA: ( interpreting his movements ) You fell in the water here? . you came ashore . you marched across the desert . the mountains . many days and nights . and reached the jungle. Taylor nods, smiles gratefully.
CORNELIUS: ( flatly ) Out - of - the - question!. Taylor slams his fist against the wall in frustration.
ZIRA: ( annoyed ) Cornelius, why do you insist on provoking him?
CORNELIUS: ( tapping map ) No creature can survive in that part of the Forbidden Zone. I've been there. I've seen it.
ZIRA: ( reading ) 'Then how do you account for me?,
CORNELIUS: I don't. And I'm not going to try.
ZIRA: But what about your theory? The existence of someone like Taylor might prove it.
CORNELIUS: ( shushing her ) Zira, are you trying to get my head cut Don't be foolish. If it's true, they'll have to accept it.
ZIRA: Don't be foolish. If it's true, they'll have to accept it.
CORNELIUS: No, they won't - Taylor touches Zira on the arm, makes a gesture of inquiry.
ZIRA: Cornelius has developed a brilliant hypothesis -
CORNELIUS: ( quickly ) It's probably wrong
ZIRA: that the ape evolved from a lower order of primate, possibly man. In his trip to the Forbidden Zone he discovered traces of a culture older than recorded time -
CORNELIUS: The evidence was very meager
ZIRA: You didn't think so then.
CORNELIUS: That was before Dr. Zaius and half the Academy said the idea was heresy.
ZIRA: How can scientific truth be heresy? What if Taylor is exactly the proof you needed? A mutation. A missing link between the unevolved primate and the ape - Taylor bangs his fist on the desk, mouths the word "No!" scribbles something on a piece of paper.
CORNELIUS: He's touchy, isn't he? Taylor thrusts the sheet at Zira, who reads it aloud.
ZIRA: 'I am not a missing link.'
CORNELIUS: Because if he is a missing link, it means the Sacred Scrolls aren't worth their Well, maybe they're not.
ZIRA: Well, maybe they're not.
CORNELIUS: No, thank you'. I won't get into that battle.
ZIRA: Oh, Cornelius, show some strength!
CORNELIUS: Zira, listen to me. We've got a fine future ahead of us. Marriage. Stimulating careers. I'm up for a raise At that moment there is a. loud RAP at the door o.s. All turn.
CORNELIUS: ( flustered ) Dr. Zaius
ZAIUS: ( not unkindly ) Did you forget our appointment, Oh., no., sir. I was just assembling my notes.
CORNELIUS: Oh., no., sir. I was just assembling my notes.
ZAIUS: You know Dr. Maximus, our Commissioner for Animal Affairs?
CORNELIUS: Certainly, sir. It's a pleasure to see you again. He hurries to his desk, starts gathering papers. Maximus notes Taylor with distaste.
MAXIMUS: What is that?
ZIRA: A man, Dr. Maximus.
MAXIMUS: I know it's a man. And you know the rules. No animals outside the compound, and most certainly not without a leash.
ZIRA: Yes, Sir. But this creature is a special case.
MAXIMUS: Why special?
ZIRA: We're conducting a new experiment.
ZAIUS: Wouldn't it more properly be done in your office?
ZIRA: Yes, Sir.
MAXIMUS: ( calling ) The gorilla GUARDS enter from outside.
MAXIMUS: Return this beast to the compound.
ZAIUS' VOICE: ( o.s. ) What's this?
ZIRA: A toy. It floats on the air. Try it.
CORNELIUS: ( a warning ) Zaius looks down at the paper plane in his hand, then back to Zira. He smiles tolerantly.
ZAIUS: He crumples the paper plane into a b all., drops it on the desk. The ape hooks the leash to Taylor's collar, starts leading him out. Zira follows them.
JULIUS' VOICE: ( o.s. ) What's up, Lieutenant?
APE LIEUTENANT: We're taking Number Four over to surgery in five minutes. Have him ready.
JULIUS: How come? The beast's throat is nearly It's not his throat this time. The vet's going to geld him.
LIEUTENANT: ( snickering ) It's not his throat this time. The vet's going to geld him.
JULIUS' VOICE: ( o.s. ) Dr. Zira won't like it. She wants this pair to mate.
LIEUTENANT: These orders came from Dr. Zaius himself. There's nothing she can do about it. The two gorillas exit. The guard crosses to a wall peg for a collar and 201 CLOSE TWO SHOT - TAYLOR AND NOVA Pushing Nova aside, Taylor rises.
JULIUS: ( murmuring ) If only you knew, Bright Eyes, what they're going to do . ( raising collar ) Stand still now.don't give me any The heel of Taylor's right palm crashes into the keeper's, chin, nearly snapping his neck. Julius falls unconscious. Taylor leans over him, taking his night stick and a set of keys on his belt.
MINISTER: Weep if you must, but make an end of sorrow. He lives again. Yes, he has found peace in Heaven.
MINISTER'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) He was a model for us all, a gorilla to remember; hunter, warrior, defender of the Faith.
MINISTER: Cherished husband, beloved father, generous master yes, he was a font of simian kindness.
MINISTER'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) The dear departed once said to me: 'I never met an ape I didn't like'. The small fry spots Taylor.
CHILD: ( shrill soprano ) Look!. It's a man! The mourners' heads turn. Taylor slinks toward the vestibule.
MINISTER: In Heaven's name . Get rid of that creature. Two ushers rise, moving past CAMERA and o.s.
FIRST USHER: ( pointing ) There he is: They move toward Taylor.
FIRST CHIMP: You see what I saw?
SECOND CHIMP: Must've escaped from the zoo.
TAYLOR: Dodge . Taylor vanishes in a BLUR of movement.
ZIRA: Taylor, why'd you run away? Zira removes the net from his face. Panting with exhaustion, Taylor flicks a wild glance at her. He looks demented.
LIEUTENANT: Security police.
ZIRA: ( promptly ) I'm in charge of this man.
LIEUTENANT: No longer, madame. He is now in the custody of the Ministry of Science. His colleague moves toward Taylor with a muzzle.
TAYLOR: Get away from me, you dirty ape!
FADE OUT: FADE IN 264 INT. CAGES - CLOSE SHOT - TAYLOR AND NOVA - DAY The compound is dimly lit. Taylor, the bandage now gone from his throat, is back in his old cage. The other cages, however, are empty their occupants presumably having been moved to the surgery or the zoo. He is seated on a pile of straw in the rear corner, Nova's head cradled on his lap. Idly he strokes her coarse hair. There is a dull glow of madness in his eyes, and his manner is one of abstract soliloquy, like a man talking to a dog.
FADE IN: 264 INT. CAGES - CLOSE SHOT - TAYLOR AND NOVA - DAY
TAYLOR: .and that's when I decided to take up astronautical engineering., you see. I was halfway through college and I. It's an old trick! The silent treatment. Four weeks and three days, and not a word from anyone. Not Zira.,or Cornelius.or that damn Julius. No one'll listen. only you. You.Nova. NO-VAH. His manner is now more direct, and educative., but she stares in blank comprehension. She brushes his moving lips with her fingers. He shrugs Yeah.me Tarzan, you Jane. That's all right . I had a puppy once that never barked. He just licked my hand. He's dead now. They're all dead. Everything. I think maybe they'll kill me, too. Are they afraid of me? I can't hurt them. but I threaten them somehow. Threaten their faith in simian superiority. Yeah . you're right. They'll have to kill me. Faint footsteps are heard o.s. Taylor and Nova look in the direction of the sound. A sudden stream of water shoots through the bars and strikes Taylor in the chest.
TAYLOR: Yeah.me Tarzan, you Jane. That's all right . I had a puppy once that never barked. He just licked my hand. He's dead now. They're all dead. Everything. I think maybe they'll kill me, too. Are they afraid of me? I can't hurt them. but I threaten them somehow. Threaten their faith in simian superiority. Yeah . you're right. They'll have to kill me. Faint footsteps are heard o.s. Taylor and Nova look in the direction of the sound. A sudden stream of water shoots through the bars and strikes Taylor in the chest.
TAYLOR: Let her alone! Julius swings the whip. It cracks against Taylor's legs, biting into the skin. Taylor stumbles, falls to one knee
TAYLOR: Where are you taking her? What are you going to do? Julius drags and pushes the girl through the door, slamming and locking it behind him. Taylor, fights through the stream of water, flings himself against the bars.
TAYLOR: ( raging ) Take your hands off her, you black monster! You filth! Julius shoves Nova across the aisle to a cage opposite Taylor's, locks her inside.
TAYLOR: Why are you doing this? Say something, you hairy scum! Julius gestures toward the ape guard
JULIUS: Turn it off! The ape guard shuts off the hose.
TAYLOR: Answer me! Julius strides over to Taylor's cage.
JULIUS: ( fiercely ) Shut up! The reason no one'll talk to you is because you're a freak!
TAYLOR: Where's Dr. Zira? Why?
JULIUS: I said shut up! He slashes viciously with his whip handle against Taylor's fingers. Taylor yells in pain. Julius and the ape guard start out of the Ape! Apes wearing clothes! It's a madhouse! A madhouse! He sinks to the floor as the apes go out.
TAYLOR: ( wildly ) Ape! Apes wearing clothes! It's a madhouse! A madhouse! He sinks to the floor as the apes go out.
266 OUT: 267 FULL SHOT - CAGE
TAYLOR: ( gently ) Now I don't even have you. ( pause ) Imagine me needing someone. Back on Earth there was nobody. Women, yes. Lots of them. Love making ithout love. That's the kind of world it was turning into, with the help of cynics like myself. So I left it because there was no one dear enough to keep me there. ( pause ) Did I tell you about Stewart? ( Looking away ) There was a lovely girl. The most precious cargo we brought along. If human life could survive here, she was to be the new Eve. ( morosely ) It's probably just as well she didn't live to see this. He looks at Nova. She stretches her hands through the bars toward him.
TAYLOR: I wonder if it's Love between us. What a place to find it.
TAYLOR: ( softly ) Where have you been? Why didn't you come to see me?
ZIRA: What is this?
TAYLOR: What is this?
ZIRA: A hearing.
CORNELIUS: ( hissing ) Be clever. Be quiet,
BAILIFF: All rise! Everyone gets up as THE PRESIDENT, Dr. Zaius and Dr. Maximus enter and mount the dais. The President takes the center chair; the other two flanking him.
BAILIFF: Be seated. All sit down.
PRESIDENT: ( pounds gavel once ) This ad hoc Tribunal of the National Academy is now in session. President of the Academy presiding. On my right, Dr. Maximus, Commissioner for Animal Affairs. On my left, Dr. Zaius, Minister of Science and Chief Defender of the Faith. ( glancing at Prosecutor ) Appearing for the State, Dr. Honorius, Deputy Minister of Justice. Honorius rises and bows.
PRESIDENT: ( raps gavel once ) Let it be clear at the outset that all matters pertaining to this inquiry are confidential, and anyone discussing them outside this chamber will be held in contempt of the Tribunal. ( a beat ) You may proceed, Dr. Honorius.
ZIRA: ( rising ) By your leave, Mr. President the Tribunal has not yet defined the purpose of this inquiry. The President appears to be taken aback. He glances at his colleagues.
MAXIMUS: You asked for the opportunity to present your case. Surely you must know why you're My own purpose is to save this exceptional creature from mutilation.
ZIRA: My own purpose is to save this exceptional creature from mutilation.
MAXIMUS: ( promptly ) And our purpose is to settle custodial and jurisdictional questions concerning this beast, and determine what's to be done with At the very least, this man has the right to know whether there's a charge against ( rising ) Objection. The accused is indeed a man. Therefore, he has no rights under ape law.
ZIRA: At the very least, this man has the right to know whether there's a charge against Objection. The accused is indeed a man. Therefore, he has no rights under ape law.
HONORIUS: ( rising ) Objection. The accused is indeed a man. Therefore, he has no rights under ape law.
PRESIDENT: Well, Dr. Zira? This is a man, is he not?
ZIRA: He is unlike any man you have ever seen - as we hope to prove.
PRESIDENT'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) Answer the question. Is he a man?
CORNELIUS: ( tentatively ) Sir? The question is the point at issue: Is he a man? Or a deviate? Or a freak of HONORIUS' VOICE ( o.s. ) 275 FULL SHOT - THE INQUIRY ROOM As the Prosecutor continues:
HONORIUS' VOICE: ( o.s. ) 275 FULL SHOT - THE INQUIRY ROOM As the Prosecutor continues:
PRESIDENT: Sustained. In all fairness, Dr. Zira, you must admit the accused is a nonape, and therefore has no rights under ape law.
ZIRA: ( rising ) Then why is he called the accused Your Honors must think him guilty of something. Honorius seems confounded. Zaius takes over.
ZAIUS: This man is not being tried. He is being disposed of. It is scientific heresy that is actually on trial here.
MAXIMUS: Well put, Dr. Zaius. Let us warn our friends that they endanger their own careers by defending this animal.
TAYLOR: Then I'll defend myself.
PRESIDENT: Dr. Zira tell Bright Eyes to sit down.
TAYLOR: My name is Taylor. The President refuses to address Taylor directly. Checking a document, he speaks to Zira.
PRESIDENT: It says here that his name is Bright Eyes. You gave him that name yourself.
TAYLOR: ( voice rising ) This hearing is absurd! Let me tell my story.
PRESIDENT: ( pounds gavel ) Bailiff! Make the animal be quiet. The Bailiff quickly crosses to Taylor and shoves him roughly into his State your case, Mr. Prosecutor.
PRESIDENT: State your case, Mr. Prosecutor.
HONORIUS: Learned Judges: My case is simple. It is based on our first Article of Faith: that the Almighty created the ape in his own image; that He gave him a soul and a mind; that He set him apart from the beasts of the jungle, and made him the lord of the 278 CLOSE GROUP SHOT - THE DEFENDANT'S TABLE Taylor has begun to write something on a sheet of paper. Zira and Cornelius remain attentive to:
HONORIUS' VOICE: ( o.s. ) These sacred truths are self-evident. The proper study of apes is apes. But certain young cynics have chosen to study man - yes, perverted scientists who advance on insidious theory called 'evolution.'
HONORIUS: There is a conspiracy afoot to undermine the very cornerstone of our Faith
PRESIDENT: Come to the point, Dr. Honorius.
HONORIUS: Directly, Mr. President. This wretched man, the accused, is only a pawn in the conspiracy. We know that he was wounded in the throat at the time of his capture. The State charges that Dr. Zira and a corrupt surgeon named Galen experimented on this wounded animal, tampering with his brain and throat tissues to create a speaking monster .
ZIRA: ( on her feet ) ThatÕs a lie!
PRESIDENT: ( pounding gavel ) Mind your tongue, madame.
ZIRA: Did we create his mind too? Not only can this man speak. He can write. He can He can reason? With the Tribunal's permission, let me expose this hoax by direct examination.
HONORIUS: He can reason? With the Tribunal's permission, let me expose this hoax by direct examination.
PRESIDENT: Proceed. But don't turn this hearing into a Honorius crosses to the defendant's table and favors Taylor with an evil smile.
HONORIUS: Tell the court, Bright Eyes what is the second Article of Faith?
TAYLOR: I admit, I know nothing of your culture.
HONORIUS: Of course he doesn't know our culture - because he cannot think. Tell us why all apes are created equal.
TAYLOR: Some apes, it seems, are more equal than Ridiculous. That answer is a contradiction in terms. Tell us, Bright Eyes, why do men have no souls? What is the proof that a divine spark exists in the simian brain?
HONORIUS: Ridiculous. That answer is a contradiction in terms. Tell us, Bright Eyes, why do men have no souls? What is the proof that a divine spark exists in the simian brain?
TAYLOR: ( hands paper to Zira ) Show this to the President. Zira moves toward the dais. Honorius returns to his own table.
ZIRA: Since the defendant is forbidden to speak in his own defense, he asks that this statement be read into the record.
PRESIDENT: Read it yourself.
ZIRA: ( reading aloud ) 'I have come to you from a planet in a different solar system. I am an explorer in space, with no hostile intentions against your civilization. On my planet it was the primate Man who evolved Into a thinking animal, while the apes remained."
PRESIDENT: ( rapping gavel ) Stop right there. Bring me that paper. Zira crosses to the dais, handing the statement to the President. He glances at it, laughs derisively and passes it to Zaius.
PRESIDENT: ( to Zira ) This is a joke in very poor taste.
ZIRA: Is it a joke to seek the truth about this man?
ZAIUS: ( glancing at document ) Dr. Zira you state here that a ship from outer space sank in an inland sea of our eastern desert.
ZIRA: I do not state it, sir. The prisoner does.
ZAIUS: Do you believe him?
ZIRA: ( uneasily ) Like you, I find it difficult.
ZAIUS: But how convenient that the proof of his arrival has vanished? You also state that Bright Eyes had two intelligent companions at the time of his capture.
ZIRA: This is his assertion.
ZAIUS: Where are they now?
TAYLOR: ( blurting it out ) One is in a museum!
PRESIDENT: ( pounding gavel ) Dr. Zira! Silence that man! Returning to her table, Zira gestures to Taylor to remain silent.
ZAIUS: How sad. Stuffed and mounted, eh? Dead men, like sunken ships, can tell no stories. And his other companion?
ZIRA: He doesn't know.
ZAIUS: Mr. President, I believe the Prosecutor has reassembled all he surviving humans captured in the hunt along with Bright Eyes.
HONORIUS: That's true, Dr. Zaius. My witnesses correction my exhibits are on display in the amphitheater.
PRESIDENT: Very well. I suggest we go and look at them. The President rises, starts out, followed by the others. Taylor is last, being led on a leash by the bailiff.
TAYLOR: ( a whisper ) It's him.Landon.
ZIRA: Which one?
TAYLOR: Second from the left.
ZAIUS: Well.do you acknowledge kinship with any of these creatures?
TAYLOR: With one of them.
ZAIUS: Identify him, then. Speak to him. Taylor moves forward for a few paces, stops.
TAYLOR: 284 CLOSER SHOT - FEATURING LANDON - FROM TAYLOR'S P.O.V.
TAYLOR: John . it's me, Taylor. Taylor steps forward to grasp his arm. There is still no response. Taylor takes Landon's head in his hands and looks at his face. There is a fresh scar running from his forehead to the top of his cranium.
TAYLOR: You! . You knew about this?
ZIRA: No, I swear I never saw this man before.
TAYLOR: ( whirling on Zaius ) You did this to him! You've removed his frontal lobes!
PRESIDENT: ( turning ) Bailiff, take the prisoner inside! The bailiff Jerks brutally on Taylor's leash, pulling him toward the door leading under the amphitheater.
ZAIUS: ( calmly ) Mr. President, a word of explanation: the creature in question suffered a skull fracture during the hunt. Two fine veternary surgeons under my direction were able to save his life. But the beast could not speak, of course. Nor will he ever speak Taylor leaps from his chair, livid with rage, approaches the dais.
TAYLOR: You destroyed his memory! His mind! His identity! And, you want to do the same to Bailiff! Stop this outburst! Gag that The bailiff and a husky guard seize Taylor, who continues shouting:
PRESIDENT: ( pounding gavel ) Bailiff! Stop this outburst! Gag that The bailiff and a husky guard seize Taylor, who continues shouting:
TAYLOR: You barbarians! The powerful guard twists Taylor's arms behind his back and the bailiff lashes his wrists together. Then the bailiff gags Taylor. His voice is cut off as the bailiff ties the twisted kerchief around his open mouth. The guard holds Taylor's leash during the rest of this scene. Meanwhile, Cornelius has risen to his feet. His tone is firm, but May it please the Tribunal: I for one grant that this being cannot have come from another planet. But this much is certain he comes from somewhere in the Forbidden Zone. He has described the region to us, and described it accurately, for I have been there.
CORNELIUS: May it please the Tribunal: I for one grant that this being cannot have come from another planet. But this much is certain he comes from somewhere in the Forbidden Zone. He has described the region to us, and described it accurately, for I have been there.
PRESIDENT: You visited the Forbidden Zone?
CORNELIUS: Why, yes, sir. A year ago. With the special permission of the Academy.
ZAIUS: ( to President ) He exceeded his orders. His travel permit was promptly revoked.
CORNELIUS: Yes, sir, so it was thanks to you. But not before I discovered evidence of a simian culture that existed long before the Sacred Scrolls were written .
HONORIUS: Objection! These remarks are profane and irrelevant.
PRESIDENT: ( to Cornelius ) Your archeological theories have no bearing on the disposition of this creature.
ZAIUS: ( softly ) Let them talk, Mr President. Let them talk.
ZIRA: ( rising ) Sirs: our theories have a bearing on his How so?
PRESIDENT: How so?
ZIRA: Let us assume, as common sense dictates, that the prisoner's story is false. But if he does not come from another planet, then surely he sprang from our own. Yes, sprang. As an animal psychologist, I have found no physiological defect to explain why humans are mute.
HONORIUS: ( plunging on ) Their speech organs are adequate. The flaw lies not in anatomy but in the brain.
PRESIDENT: ( plunging on ) Their speech organs are adequate. The flaw lies not in anatomy but in the brain.
ZIRA: ( plunging on ) Their speech organs are adequate. The flaw lies not in anatomy but in the brain.
HONORIUS: ( voice rising ) Sustain all objections, but face the truth! Cornelius has regained his courage. Rising to Zira's support, he points at Taylor.
PRESIDENT: ( voice rising ) Sustain all objections, but face the truth! Cornelius has regained his courage. Rising to Zira's support, he points at Taylor.
ZIRA: ( voice rising ) Sustain all objections, but face the truth! Cornelius has regained his courage. Rising to Zira's support, he points at Taylor.
CORNELIUS: Yes! Behold this marvel, this living paradox, this missing link in an evolutionary chain!
PRESIDENT: ( pounding gavel ) ( Puffing with rage ) You have gone too far.
ZAIUS: ( calmly ) There you are, Mr. President. I warned you these two would use this hearing as a forum for subversion.
MAXIMUS: You were right! The advocates of heresy have revealed themselves.
ZAIUS: Mr. President, I think an indictment is in order.
HONORIUS: ( promptly ) Yes, sir. The State charges Doctors Zira and Cornelius with contempt of this Tribunal, malicious mischief and scientific heresy.
PRESIDENT: Be it so ordered. The Tribunal will examine all the evidence presented here and in due time render a verdict on the proposed indictment and on the disposition of the deviate in question. This hearing is adjourned. All rise. The guard drags Taylor from the inquiry room. Zira and Cornelius stand there, stunned by the entrapment into which Zaius has maneuvered them.
ZAIUS: Wait outside. The officers withdraw, closing the door. Collared, wrists manacled, Taylor stands facing the desk.
ZAIUS: The verdict is in. At the moment your simian friends and sponsors are free on bail. But they'll soon be brought to trial for heresy.
TAYLOR: What about me?
ZAIUS: ( offhandedly ) Oh, your case was preordained. In a way, you performed a service for the State . ( smiling ) Because your hearing made it possible for us to expose Zira and Cornelius. ( a beat ) And now the Tribunal has placed you in my custody for.final disposition. Do you know what that means?
TAYLOR: Emasculation, to begin with. Then experimental surgery. On the speech centers. On the brain. Ultimately, a kind of living death. Taylor stiffens but says nothing. Zaius lets this prospect sink in, then continues.
ZAIUS: Emasculation, to begin with. Then experimental surgery. On the speech centers. On the brain. Ultimately, a kind of living death. Taylor stiffens but says nothing. Zaius lets this prospect sink in, then continues.
ZAIUS: However, it's within my power to grant You a reprieve. That is why I summoned you here tonight. Tell me who and what you really are and where you come from, and no veterinary will touch you.
TAYLOR: I told the truth at that 'hearing'of yours.
ZAIUS: You lied. Where is your tribe?
TAYLOR: My tribe, as you call it, lives on another planet in a distant solar system.
ZAIUS: Then how is it we speak the same language? Even in your lies, some truth slips through! That mythical community you're supposed to come from Fort Wayne'?
TAYLOR: What about it?
ZAIUS: A fort! Unconsciously, you chose a name that was belligerent. Where were you nurtured?
TAYLOR: I take it you don't believe the prosecutor's charge that I'm a monster created by Dr. Zira.
ZAIUS: Certainly not. You're a mutant.
TAYLOR: That's exactly what Zira and Cornelius claim. You're talking heresy, doctor.
ZAIUS: ( smiling ) Of course.
TAYLOR: ( growing bolder ) All right, suppose I am a mutant? Why does the appearance of one mutant send you into a panic?
ZAIUS: Because you're not unique. There was the one you call Landon
TAYLOR: Then you admit
ZAIUS: I admit that where there's one mutant there's probably another. And another. A nest of them. Where's your nest, Taylor? Where are your women?
TAYLOR: ( pause ) Thank you for calling me Taylor. ( more firmly ) Dr. Zaius, I know who I am. Who are you? How did this upside down civilization ever get ( strangely calm ) You may well call it upside down, since you occupy its lowest level. And deservedly. ( pause ) The eastern desert has never been explored because we've always assumed that no life can exist there. ( a beat ) Save yourself, Taylor. Tell me is there another jungle beyond the Forbidden Zone?
ZAIUS: ( strangely calm ) You may well call it upside down, since you occupy its lowest level. And deservedly. ( pause ) The eastern desert has never been explored because we've always assumed that no life can exist there. ( a beat ) Save yourself, Taylor. Tell me is there another jungle beyond the Forbidden Zone?
TAYLOR: I don't know.
ZAIUS: If you are protecting others of your kind, it will cost you your identity.
TAYLOR: I'm not protecting anybody! That hearing was a farce. What have I done?
ZAIUS: You're a menace! A walking pestilence. I do know who you are, Taylor. As I know that others of your kind must live in the Forbidden Zone. You have just six hours to make a full confession. After that I'll employ surgery to obtain one. The two burly security agents open the door and enter.
ZAIUS: Take this creature back to his cage. The guards seize Taylor, start to shove him toward the doorway. He twists around, faces Zaius.
TAYLOR: All right, you can cut me to pieces. It's within your power. But know this, doctor. You do it because you're afraid of me. You do it from fear! Zaius jerks his head silently toward the door. The apes drag Taylor through it.
LUCIUS: Are you Julius?
JULIUS: What do you want?
LUCIUS: I'm from the Office of Animal Affairs. This male's to be transferred to the zoo.
JULIUS: At this hour? Who says so? Taylor enters scene, coming over to the cage bars as Lucius continues gravely, with just a note of disdain.
LUCIUS: Don't they tell you anything? The Anti- vivisectionist Society is up in arms. They're going to save this beast from those butchers in the lab. If he can speak he belongs in the public zoo. But what'll probably happen is that some money-mad grown-up will put him in a circus. And then we'll have to pay to see what rightfully should have
JULIUS: Stop making speeches and show me the order. Lucius hands the guard a document. It is dark here, so Julius crosses to a beam of light near the bars and studies the document. Lucius, behind the guard's back, signals frantically for Taylor to seize or strike the guard. Taylor is slow to understand. Lucius shakes his head impatiently.
JULIUS: ( peering at document ) This order's no good. It must be counter- signed by Dr. Zaius Lucius suddenly gives Julius a violent shove. The guard's head crashes against the bars and he is stunned.
LUCIUS: Hit him! Taylor complies bringing down the heel of his fist on the nape of the guard's neck. Julius collapses. The youngster immediately squats down, gags him, and begins to bind him hand and foot. CAMERA MOVES IN.
TAYLOR: Who are you?
LUCIUS: ( looking up,coolly ) So you can talk. ( as he works ) I'm Dr. Zira's nephew. This abduction was her idea. You're not really going to the zoo. That's just our cover story in case we're stopped. ( off again ) Although I do feel that if it ever came down to a question of whether something like you should be public or private Come on. Get me out of here. Taking the guard's keys, Lucius rises and unlocks the cage. Nova enters the scene, coming to the bars of her cage.
TAYLOR: Come on. Get me out of here. Taking the guard's keys, Lucius rises and unlocks the cage. Nova enters the scene, coming to the bars of her cage.
LUCIUS' VOICE: ( o.s. ) We've got to move fast.
TAYLOR: She comes along too.
LUCIUS: Zira doesn't want your female.
TAYLOR: I want her.
LUCIUS: ( a shrug ) If you insist. But I'm not taking any orders
TAYLOR: Fine. Just let her out. Lucius unlocks Nova's cage. She comes out quickly, takes Taylor's hand. They follow Lucius out of the compound.
ZIRA: ( to Lucius ) I told you not to bring the other one.
LUCIUS: He wouldn't leave her.
ZIRA: ( with a sigh ) All right. ( to the humans ) Get in.hurry. Put this on.
TAYLOR: Taylor just keep quiet and we may get away with this. Remember that men all look alike to most apes. Taylor and Nova comply, climbing into the cage. Lucius closes the tailgate. Lucius and Zira move to the front of the wagon and climb aboard. Lucius takes the reins. As they move off:
ZIRA: Taylor just keep quiet and we may get away with this. Remember that men all look alike to most apes. Taylor and Nova comply, climbing into the cage. Lucius closes the tailgate. Lucius and Zira move to the front of the wagon and climb aboard. Lucius takes the reins. As they move off:
LUCIUS: ( apprehensively ) Gorilla hunters .
ZIRA: Keep moving. We can't turn back now.
LEADER: Hold it! Lucius obeys. The hunters on foot swarm around his wagon as their leader calls authoritatively:
LEADER: Ah, Doctor Zira! Our wagon broke down! I'm afraid we'll have to commandeer yours.
ZIRA: You can't! I've two sick humans in the cage. We're taking them to the chief vet at the zoo .
LEADER: ( indicating his own wagon ) We bagged two live ones today. I'll have to ask you to take them along. He moves to the rear of the wagon.
ZIRA: ( following him; frantically ) No, no, my animals are diseased. Leave them alone! They're diseased, I tell you! Lucius jumps down and runs toward the rear of the wagon.
FIRST HUNTER: Give him a taste of fire! One of the hunters points his torch at Taylor, who, quite naturally, shrinks back as Lucius runs into scene.
LUCIUS: Stand back! He's dangerous!
FIRST HUNTER: He's rabid! His bite is fatal!
ZIRA: He's rabid! His bite is fatal!
FIRST HUNTER: You serious?
LUCIUS: You would die in agony! Frothing at the mouth! The hunters fall back. Lucius promptly locks the tailgate and he and Zira run back to the front of the wagon. Lucius snaps the reins and the wagon moves off. The hunters follow it a few paces, pausing near their mounted leader.
FIRST HUNTER: They treat those animals better than they treat us.
LEADER: I still say the only good human is a dead The fugitives' wagon recedes beyond the gazebo, as we:
CORNELIUS: How did it go?
ZIRA: There was one bad moment some hunters stopped us.
LUCIUS: ( calmly ) I pursuaded them our beasts had rabies.
TAYLOR: Let me out of here!
CORNELIUS: ( approaching ) Well, Taylor we're all fugitives now.
TAYLOR: Do you have any weapons?
CORNELIUS: The best. But we won't need them.
TAYLOR: Just the same, I want one. He moves toward one of the horses. Cornelius starts after him.
CORNELIUS: Look here, Taylor. I'm in charge of this Taylor takes a rifle from one of the packs, examines it.
TAYLOR: Fair enough. But you're no longer in charge of me. And I don't mean to be captured again. Zira and Lucius have come up.
CORNELIUS: ( peeved ) As you wish.
TAYLOR: Zaius seems to think there might be another jungle beyond the Forbidden Zone. That's what we'll try for. What about you?
ZIRA: Cornelius and I have been indicted for heresy. Unless we can prove our theories, we don't stand a chance of acquittal.
TAYLOR: You're going back to the Forbidden Zone?
CORNELIUS: To the diggings I worked at a year ago. It's a three day ride across the eastern desert, near where you claim you landed from that planet of yours.
TAYLOR: You still don't believe me, do you?
CORNELIUS: ( shrugs ) It's a long detour to Dead Lake. What would we find? Taylor makes a helpless gesture, realizing that he cannot present sure Nothing much. The remnants of a life raft. Maybe a small flag. The emblem of my Sorry, Taylor. The terrain around that lake is poisonous. There is no fresh water, no vegetation. Nothing.
TAYLOR: Nothing much. The remnants of a life raft. Maybe a small flag. The emblem of my Sorry, Taylor. The terrain around that lake is poisonous. There is no fresh water, no vegetation. Nothing.
CORNELIUS: Sorry, Taylor. The terrain around that lake is poisonous. There is no fresh water, no vegetation. Nothing.
TAYLOR: I know . Nevertheless, I thank you for saving us. You'll be in trouble for going there.
ZIRA: ( a smile ) We've been in trouble since the moment we met you. Nova seizes Taylor's arm to get his attention. Trying to communicate, she makes whimpering sounds and points at:
314 OMIT: 315 THE DISTANT JUNGLE - AS SEEN FROM THE GROVE
ZIRA'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) What's she pointing at?
TAYLOR: That's the way home. And she knows it. Nova turns away, still holding Taylor's arm, tries to lead him toward the jungle.
TAYLOR: ( sharply ) ( she turns; he shakes his head, says gently ) We can't stay there. It's not safe. She looks at him sadly.
ZIRA: We'd better get started. If the mounted police pick up our trail, they'll come this far at least.
CORNELIUS: ( to Lucius ) Let's put the water and provisions in the wagon. He and Lucius move off toward the horses.
ZIRA: ( indicating Nova ) Are you going to take her with you?
TAYLOR: Actually, you're a different breed. This creature will never evolve.
ZIRA: Actually, you're a different breed. This creature will never evolve.
TAYLOR: Maybe not.
ZIRA: ( smiling ) You want her that much?
TAYLOR: ( testily ) You threw us together, remember? And you guessed right. Men, like apes, get despondent without a mate. He walks off to help Lucius and Cornelius. Nova tags along behind him as we:
LUCIUS: Who put them up?
ZIRA: The Hunt Club.
LUCIUS: To scare off humans?
CORNELIUS: To scare us, too. We're entering the Forbidden Zone. They move off again, riding across the dry wash.
TAYLOR: Don't worry. You'll be safe with me. Here. It's time you learned to earn your keep. He hands the reins to Nova. She just sits there. He demonstrates.
TAYLOR: You can do it. Like this . Nova flicks the reins, reacting in wide-eyed, open-mouthed disbelief as the horse obeys her.
LUCIUS: Something's wrong with your mate. Taylor looks off. He and the others move quickly to Nova, CAMERA PANNING with them.
ZIRA: Let me handle this. You may be smarter than I am, but I'm the veterinary on this planet. Assisting Nova to her feet, Zira leads her off toward the wagon.
TAYLOR: Where does the river lead?
CORNELIUS: It empties into a sea some miles from here. That's where the cave is.
TAYLOR'S VOICE: ( o.s. ) And beyond that?
CORNELIUS: Don't know. At high tide you can't ride along the shore, and we had no boats on the last expedition.
TAYLOR: You've never told me why this region's called the Forbidden Zone.
CORNELIUS: No one really knows. It's an ancient taboo. Set forth in the Sacred Scrolls. The Lawgiver pronounced the area deadly.
LUCIUS: Shouldn't we be moving on?
TAYLOR: I'm for that. They start toward the horses and wagon.
TAYLOR: What's the diagnosis, doctor? A touch of the sun?
ZIRA: She's not sick at all. She's pregnant.
TAYLOR: So I'm not an altogether different breed, you see?
TAYLOR: ( smiling ) You like it? Lucius and Cornelius come up, Zira with them.
LUCIUS: ( disapprovingly ) Why did you do that? Scrape off your In my world before I left it - only youngsters of your age wore un- scraped hair.
TAYLOR: In my world before I left it - only youngsters of your age wore un- scraped hair.
CORNELIUS: ( to Taylor, quizzically ) It makes you look somehow . less Taylor grins wryly at Cornelius, picks up his rifle.
TAYLOR: When are you going to show me what's in the cave?
CORNELIUS: Right now, if you like. They cross the beach to the ladders, when suddenly they hear the sound of horses. They look o.s.
CORNELIUS: Lucius don't fire at them. The party rides up.
ZAIUS: You're all under arrest! You seditious scoundrel. Drop that 327- OUT 349 FLASH SHOT - LUCIUS He wavers, lowering his piece.
TAYLOR: Stop right there.
ZAIUS: Don't be a fool. You're outnumbered and outgunned. Taylor aims at Zaius and calls out:
TAYLOR: If there's any shooting, Dr. Zaius, you'll be the first to die. Depend on it.
CORNELIUS: ( protesting ) Taylor, you're not in command here. Put down that gun.
TAYLOR: Shut up. Silence. Zaius knows Taylor isn't bluffing.
ZAIUS: Very well. Lower your weapons. They obey. Taylor calls again:
TAYLOR: ( pointing ) Tell them to move around the point. Out of range. Zaius turns and whispers to his apes. They rein about and ride away through the rocks. Zaius dismounts and approaches the fugitives alone. He is unarmed.
CORNELIUS: ( uncertainly ) How did you know we'd come here?
ZAIUS: It wasn't difficult. Only an apostate or a lunatic would flee to the Forbidden I see you brought along the female of your species. I didn't realize a man could be monogamous.
TAYLOR: On this planet it's easy. Zaius laughs derisively, then turns to the apes.
ZAIUS: ( evenly ) I ask you to reconsider the rash course you've taken. If you're convicted of heresy, the most you'll get is two years. But if you persist in pointing guns in my direction, you'll hang for high treason.
CORNELIUS: ( respectfully ) We've never meant to be treasonable, sir. But up there, in the face of that Cliff, is a vast cave and in that cave a fabulous treasure of fossils and artifacts.
ZAIUS: I've seen some of your fossils and artifacts. They're worthless.
TAYLOR: ( derisively ) And that's your Minister of Science. Honor- bound to expand the frontiers of knowledge.
ZIRA: ( worried ) Taylor, please
TAYLOR: Except that he's also the Chief Defender of the Faith.
ZAIUS: ( loftily ) There is no contradiction between faith and science. True science.
TAYLOR: ( suddenly angered ) All right, let's see if you're willing to put that statement to a test.
CORNELIUS: Taylor, I'd rather you -
TAYLOR: No. You saved me from this fanatic. Maybe I can pay you back.
ZAIUS: ( calmly ) What is your proposal?
TAYLOR: When were the Sacred Scrolls written?
ZAIUS: Twelve hundred years ago.
TAYLOR: Very well. If Zira and Cornelius can prove that those scrolls don't tell the whole truth of your history; if they can show you definite evidence of another culture from an unrecorded past will you exonerate them?
ZAIUS: Of course.
TAYLOR: Okay.Up to the cave. He gestures toward the path leading to it. Zaius, Zira, and Cornelius start upward. Lucius starts to follow them.
TAYLOR: Sorry, Lucius. You'll have to stay here and guard the horses.
LUCIUS: Always giving orders. Just like every other adult.
TAYLOR: Relax. You'll see it all later. He pats the barrel of Lucius' gun, in the manner of a stern but benevolent non-com, then starts up the trail with Nova at his heels. Lucius, unused to taking commands from an animal, scowls after him, then shrugs, adjusting to the Idea.
355 OUT: 356 EXT. WESTERN WALL OF GORGE - LONG SHOT - ANGLING UP
AFTERNOON: The sun hovers over the lofty rim of the lake like a great red balloon. The wall of the gorge, in shadow, is a darker hue.
ZAIUS: Present your evidence, Cornelius. Cornelius clambers down into the pit, followed by Zira. Taylor bends down, examines some of the artifacts lined along the edge of the excavation. Nova sits beside him.
CORNELIUS: ( pointing ) It was at this level I discovered traces of an early ape creature stage of primitive barbarism, really dating back roughly thirteen hundred years. It was here I found cutting tools and arrowheads of quartz and the fossilized bones of carnivorous gorillas. CAMERA ( ON BOOM ) MOVES IN SLOWLY as Cornelius continues:
CORNELIUS: But the artifacts lying at your feet were found here, at this level. And that's the paradox. The more ancient culture is the more advanced. Admittedly, many of these objects are unidentified, but clearly they were fashioned by beings with a knowledge of metallurgy. CAMERA KEEPS MOVING IN on the group in and around the excavation as Cornelius continues:
CORNELIUS: Indeed, the very fact that these tools are unknown to us could suggest a culture in certain ways almost equal to our own. Some of the evidence is uncontestable .
ZAIUS: ( interrupting ) Don't speak to me in absolutes. The evidence is contestable.
CORNELIUS: I apologize.
ZAIUS: To begin with, your methods of dating the past are crude, to say the least. There are geologists on my staff who would laugh at your speculations.
TAYLOR: Perhaps that's why they're on your staff. Zaius flicks a hostile glance at Taylor, then looks down at the artifacts. He nudges them with his foot.
ZAIUS: Secondly, if these 'tools' as you call them, are unidentified, why are they introduced as 'evidence' of anything?
ZIRA: ( promptly ) But there's the doll, sir.
ZAIUS: ( pointing ) Right there. The human doll. Zaius deigns to stoop and pick it up.
CORNELIUS: ( pointing ) Right there. The human doll. Zaius deigns to stoop and pick it up.
ZAIUS: What does this prove? My grand- daughter plays with human dolls.
ZIRA: Taylor! Tell him.
TAYLOR: He has a point. On my planet children often play with ape dolls. Zaius idly tosses the doll to the ground near Nova. She picks it up, studies it.
CORNELIUS: A doll alone proves nothing. True. But the doll was found beside the jawbone of a man and no trace of simian fossils has turned up in this deposit.
ZAIUS: Your conclusion is premature. Have you forgotten your Scripture? The Thirteenth 'And Proteus brought the upright beast into the garden, and chained him to a tree, and the children made sport of him.'
CORNELIUS: ( impatiently ) No sir, I haven't forgotten.
ZAIUS: Well? For a time the ancients kept humans as household pets. Until the Lawgiver proved that man could not be tamed. Keep digging Cornelius. You'll find evidence of the master of this house: an ape.
ZIRA: Are you going to let that pass without an answer? Taylor, who has been toying with objects in the dirt, looks up.
TAYLOR: Yes. I have to agree. From all you've found so far, his position's as good as What are you doing there?
CORNELIUS: ( annoyed ) What are you doing there?
TAYLOR: Reconstructing a life. Care to have a Cornelius and Zira cross the pit and Zaius walks around the rim of the B-361 MED. CLOSE SHOT - FAVORING TAYLOR AND NOVA As the apes come close. A number of artifacts have been arranged in front of Taylor.
TAYLOR: ( to Cornelius ) These were found near the human doll, ( Cornelius nods ) Well, whoever owned them was in pretty bad shape. He picks up the twisted fragment of a pair of spectacles.
TAYLOR: Defective eyesight.. As Taylor continues his monologue, he picks up the other objects one by He wore false teeth. He suffered from a hernia and used this truss to hold up his insides . And toward the end, these little rings of stainless steel enclosed a prefab- ricated valve in his failing heart. Taylor pauses. Zaius picks up two of the steel rings, studies them.
TAYLOR: He wore false teeth. He suffered from a hernia and used this truss to hold up his insides . And toward the end, these little rings of stainless steel enclosed a prefab- ricated valve in his failing heart. Taylor pauses. Zaius picks up two of the steel rings, studies them.
TAYLOR: I don't say he was a man like an Earthman, but I'd call him a close relative, for he was plagued by most of man's ills. Yet, fragile as he was, he came before you and was superior to you.
ZAIUS: ( a calm smile ) That's lunacy. I can give an alternate description for everyone of those objects that's equally as inventive as yours. But it would be conjecture, not proof.
DOLL'S HEAD: Mamma! Mamma! Mamma!. The apes stare at the doll in astonishment. Taylor snatches the doll from Nova, brandishes it at the astonished Zaius.
TAYLOR: Dr. Zaius! Would an ape make a human doll that talks? Zaius looks at him, speechless. At that moment the CRACK of a distant rifle shot reverberates through the cavern. All present freeze, 364 OUT 365 FULL SHOT - THE CAVERN - REVERSE ANGLE Taylor alone is armed. Raising his rifle, he glowers at Zaius.
ZIRA: 364 OUT 365 FULL SHOT - THE CAVERN - REVERSE ANGLE
364 OUT: 365 FULL SHOT - THE CAVERN - REVERSE ANGLE
TAYLOR: You louse! Cornelius is already crossing the pit. He climbs out arid races toward the mouth of the cave. Taylor runs after him. Zira and Nova hurry after 366 MED. SHOT - ZAIUS Expressionless, he looks down at the doll, then moves toward the mouth of the cave.
TAYLOR: Tell him to pull back!
ZAIUS: ( a hoarse cry ) Cease fire! Withdraw! His command echoes from the west wall of the canyon.
TAYLOR: I ought to kill you right now. Let's go. They move off down the trail.
LUCIUS: They took me by surprise. Sneaked up on me while I was watering the horses. What's happened to honor? I got off one round to warn you.
CORNELIUS: ( gloomingly ) They've taken everything.
TAYLOR: Not everything. They left a hostage. How do you feel, Lucius?
LUCIUS: ( turning on ) But vindicated! I've been right all along. You can't trust the older generation. It's a matter of values
TAYLOR: ( gently ) All right, all right. Will You do me a favor? No orders.
LUCIUS: ( pause ) What is it?
TAYLOR: I want you to go around the bend and tell those gorillas their leader is my Yes, I can do that.
LUCIUS: ( thoughtfull pause ) Yes, I can do that.
TAYL0R: Good. Say I want a week's supply of food for the woman and myself. A horse. A spade. And fifty rounds of ammunition.
LUCIUS: What if they won't agree to your terms?
TAYLOR: Then tell them Dr. Zaius won't leave here alive.
ZIRA: ( shocked ) Taylor, you can't.
ZAIUS: ( Calmly ) Oh yes he can. He's a born killer. ( to Lucius ) Deliver the message. Lucius looks to Taylor for confirmation. Taylor nods. The young ape hurries away through the rocks. Taylor crosses to a useless saddle, picks up a coil of rope, gestures at Zaius, indicating a nearby tree.
TAYLOR: Sit down. Over there. Zaius squats on the ground beside the tree. Taylor sets his rifle against the trunk, fashions a noose and places it around Zaius' neck. Then, using an ingenious combination of knots, he ties Zaius' hands behind his back, and finally fastens the rope around the base of the Now, Minister of Science - let me explain certain principle stress and strain. If you exert pressure to remove these bonds, you'll choke yourself to death. It'll be suicide, you see? Zira and Cornelius look down at the captive mandarin. Their rebellious spirit has evaporated, and they are clearly afraid.
TAYLOR: ( as he works ) Now, Minister of Science - let me explain certain principle stress and strain. If you exert pressure to remove these bonds, you'll choke yourself to death. It'll be suicide, you see? Zira and Cornelius look down at the captive mandarin. Their rebellious spirit has evaporated, and they are clearly afraid.
ZIRA: Taylor, please don't treat him that Why not?
TAYLOR: Why not?
ZIRA: It's humiliating.
TAYLOR: Wasn't I humiliated? By all of you? Didn't you lead me around on a leash?
CORNELIUS: That was different. We thought you were .. inferior.
TAYLOR: ( wintry smile ) And now you know the truth. ( to Zaius ) Cornelius has beaten you, Doctor. He proved it. Man preceded you here. You owe him your science, your language, whatever knowledge you have.
ZAIUS: ( quietly ) Then answer this: If ran was superior, why didn't he survive?
TAYLOR: ( shrugging ) He might have been wiped out by a plague. Natural catastrophe. Like a fiery storm of meteors. From the looks of this part of your planet, I'd say that was a fair bet.
ZIRA,: ( weakly ) But we can't be sure.
TAYLOR: ( indicating Zaius ) He is. He knew all the time. Long before your discovery, he knew. ( to Zaius ) Defender of the Faith. Guardian of the terrible secret. Isn't that right, doctor?
ZAIUS: What I know of man was written long ago set down by the wisest ape of all our Lawgiver. Open my breast pocket. Cornelius crosses to Zaius, and takes a small book bound in black leather from the breast pocket of his tunic.
ZAIUS: Read it to him: the twentythird Scroll, ninth Verse. Cornelius thumbs through the book, finds the citation and reads aloud:
CORNELIUS: 'Beware the beast man, for he is the devil's pawn. Alone among God's primates, he kills for sport, or lust or greed. Yes, he will murder his brother to possess his brother's land. Let him not breed in great numbers, for he will make a desert of his home and yours. Shun him. Drive him back into his jungle lair: For he is the harbinger of death'. Cornelius falls silent and looks down at Zaius.
ZAIUS: ( quietly ) I found nothing in the cave to alter that conception of man. And I still live by its A-389 ANOTHER ANGLE - THE GROUP Lucius hurries out of the rocks leading a saddled horse. Zaius' five mounted gorillas appear behind him. Taylor calls out to them:
TAYLOR: Stay where you are! Lucius comes up with the horse. Taylor checks the provisions in the saddlebags. Lucius is frowning.
LUCIUS: They think you're behaving foolishly. I must say I agree. Where will you go?
TAYLOR: ( nodding o.s. ) I'll start by following the shoreline. ( a smile ) And my nose.
ZIRA: But suppose you find nothing but a wasteland. How will you survive?
ZAIUS: ( firmly ) He won't survive. ( all look at him ) Do you know what sort of life awaits you out there, Taylor? That of an animal. If you aren't eventually hunted down and killed by apes, some jungle beast will devour you.
TAYLOR: Then there is another jungle?
ZAIUS: ( shrugs; then, sardonically ) Of course, you could return with us. Our society might find a place for you and your mate.
TAYLOR: Sure. In a cage.
ZAIUS: Where else, but in a cage, does man No, thanks. I'll take freedom. Taylor mounts the horse, extends a helping hand to Nova, who vault's nimbly onto the horse's rump. Taylor looks at Zira and Cornelius.
TAYLOR: No, thanks. I'll take freedom. Taylor mounts the horse, extends a helping hand to Nova, who vault's nimbly onto the horse's rump. Taylor looks at Zira and Cornelius.
TAYLOR: Would you like to come along?
ZIRA: We can't.
TAYLOR: It's better than going to prison for They can't convict us of that. You proved our innocence. Besides. . his culture is our culture.
CORNELIUS: They can't convict us of that. You proved our innocence. Besides. . his culture is our culture.
TAYLOR: Good luck then. He reaches down, grasps Cornelius' hand, then grins crookedly.
TAYLOR: Dr. Zira, I'd like to kiss you All right, but.. .you're so damned ugly! Taylor smiles, leans down, kisses her.
ZIRA: All right, but.. .you're so damned ugly! Taylor smiles, leans down, kisses her.
ZIRA: ( softly ) Go with God, Taylor. ( half smile ) That's an old expression. it comes from both ape and man.
TAYLOR: God bless you. He extends his hand to Lucius, who takes it.
TAYLOR: I think you're making a mistake.
LUCIUS: I think you're making a mistake.
TAYLOR: That's the boy. Keep 'em flying.
LUCIUS: The flags of discontent. It's the only way anything ever gets changed. Don't try to follow us. I'm pretty handy with things like this.
TAYLOR: The flags of discontent. It's the only way anything ever gets changed. Don't try to follow us. I'm pretty handy with things like this.
ZAIUS: Of that I'm sure. All my life I've awaited your coming and dreaded it. Like death itself. Taylor looks piercingly at Zaius, more troubled than offended.
TAYLOR: Why? From the first, I've terrified you, Doctor. And in spite of every sign that I'm an intelligent being who means no harm, you continue to hate and fear me. Because you are a man. And you were right I have always known about man. From the evidence, I believe his wisdom must walk hand in hand with his idiocy. His emotions must rule his brain. He must be a warlike animal who gives battle to everything around him even himself.
ZAIUS: ( calmly, without rancor ) Because you are a man. And you were right I have always known about man. From the evidence, I believe his wisdom must walk hand in hand with his idiocy. His emotions must rule his brain. He must be a warlike animal who gives battle to everything around him even himself.
TAYLOR: What evidence? No weapons were found in the cave.
ZAIUS: The Forbidden Zone was once a paradise. Your breed made a desert of it, ages ago.
TAYLOR: ( he waits, then wearily ) We're back at the beginning. I still don't know the why. A planet where apes evolved from men. A world turned wrong side up. A puzzle with one piece missing.
ZAIUS: ( softly ) Don't look for it, Taylor. You may not like what you find.
ZAIUS: Untie me! Cornelius moves quickly to remove the rope from Zaius' neck. Behind them, the five mounted gorillas gallop forward. Zaius gets up, waves them to a halt.
ZAIUS: No, no! Let him go!
ZAIUS: ( quietly ) Fetch your explosives. We're going to seal the cave.
MARCUS: Yes, sir. He remounts his horse and rides o.s.
CORNELIUS: ( aghast ) Seal the cave?
ZAIUS: That's correct. And you will both stand trial for heresy.
ZIRA: But the proof? The doll?
ZAIUS: In a few minutes there will be no doll. There can't be. I'm sorry. Cornelius throws himself at Zaius.
CORNELIUS: You mustn't! You gave your 'word! Zaius looks emptily at one of his apes.
ZAIUS: What I do, I do with no pleasure. Silence A hairy hand is clapped over Cornelius' mouth. He is dragged off, struggling, kicking. Julius, unafraid, glares at Zaius.
LUCIUS: Dr. Zaius, this is inexcusable! Why must knowledge stand still? What about the Zaius looks benevolently at Julius.
ZAIUS: I may just have saved it for you. Julius and Zira look at each other, befuddled. Once more their eyes follow the retreating figures of Taylor and Nova. The beach separating the water from the canyon becomes narrower as they move downstream.
LUCIUS: What will he find out there, doctor?
ZAIUS: His destiny.
TAYLOR: Yes, Nova I see it. In my old profession green meant safe. Green meant go. The horse moves off at a trot, CAMERA PANNING. But they have gone only a short distance when they hear the distant THUNDER of an EXPLOSION. Taylor reins in and looks back.
TAYLOR: ( a cry of agony ) My God! He falls to his knees, buries his head in his hands. CAMERA SLOWLY DRAWS BACK AND UP to a HIGH ANGLE SHOT disclosing what Taylor has found. Half-buried in the sand and washed by the waves is the Statue of 424- OUT THE END Writers : Michael Wilson
FADE OUT: THE END Writers : Michael Wilson
THE END: Writers : Michael Wilson
