PLATOON: FADE IN: A QUOTATION AGAINST A BLACK SCREEN: 'REJOICE, O YOUNG MAN, IN THY YOUTH .' The sound now of a C-130 air cargo plane roaring over us and we cut sharply to:
TITLES RUN: A DOZEN NEW RECRUITS step off the plane, unloading their duffel bags, looking around like only the new can look around, their hair regulation-clipped, crisp, new green fatigues fitting them like cardboard. CHRIS TAYLOR is just another one of them - as he turns into a tight closeup, to look at a motorized cart pulling up alongside . He's about 21. Newmeat. His face, unburned yet by the sun, is tense, bewildered, innocent, eyes searching for the truth. They fall now on a heap of BODY BAGS in the back of the cart. Two soldiers begin loading them onto the plane. Flies - hundreds of flies - buzz around them, the only cue to their contents.
GARDNER: ( next to Chris, Southern accent ) That what I think it is?
SOLDIER 1: ( a look ) I guess so . An uncomfortable look between them.
SERGENT: Okay, let's go . As they move out, Chris' eyes moving with the body bags being loaded onto the plane. Moving over now to a motley HALF DOZEN VETERANS bypassing them on their way to the plane. They look happy. Very happy, chatting it up. They pass the newboys - and they shake their heads, their eyes full of an almost mocking pity.
VETERANS: Well I'll be dipped in shit - new meat! Sorry bout that boys - 'sin loi' buddy . you gonna love the Nam, man, for-fucking-ever. Chris looking at them. They pass, except for the last man who walks slower than the rest, a slight limp. His eyes fall on They're frightening eyes, starved, hollow, sunken deep in his face, black and dangerous. The clammy pallor of malaria clings to him as he looks at Chris through decayed black teeth. Then the sun flares out on him and he's past. And Chris looks back. Disturbed. It's as if the man was not real. For a moment there. As if he were a ghost. Chris walking, duffel bag on the shoulder, looks up at the lollipop sun burning a hole through the sky. A rushing SOUND now. Of frightening intensity, an effect combining the blast of an airplane with the roar of a lion as we hardcut to:
BARNES: What are you waiting for? He ain't gonna bite you. Move out. Chris looks at him with pent-up hatred and crashes on.
HARRIS: Bravo Two, Six. What's the delay up there, move it out on point. We've got a link up at Phase Line Whiskey at One Eight Zero Zero, over.
LIEUTENANT WOLFE: Two Bravo, Two move it out. Six says we're jamming 'em up back there. Over. Barnes, upfront, turns to SAL, his radio man, under his breath.
BARNES: Tell that dipshit to get fucked. Get that other freshmeat up here. Gardner. As Barnes picks up his pace, irritated now at this reprimand from the CO - coming up on Chris, who is soaked now from head to foot in sweat, dizzy, feeling sick, about to vomit.
DOC: You okay?
CHRIS: Ants. I got ants on my neck .
DOC: ( helping him ) Yeah, black ants are killers, you look sick man. You need a little salt. ( reaching into his satchel ) Sergeant Elias, a handsome, graceful dark-haired Indian kid of 23, the squad sergeant, is taking items out of Chris' pack - air mattress, extra unnecessary clothing, extra canteens, grenades, gas mask, books.
ELIAS: ( shaking his head, amused ) You're humping way too much, troop, don't need half this shit. I'll haul it for you but next time you check it out with me okay? Chris nodding, grateful, panting. The men passing, watching. Chris sorry about this, trying to keep up face. BUNNY, a young 18 year-old with an angel's face, is pissing in the dead gook's face. KING passes, glances at him.
KING: You're a sick mother Bunny. Bunny laughing about it. Chris standing there one moment, fighting for his breath, suddenly passes out, going over with his 70 pound rucksack, hitting the ground with a loud bang.
ELIAS: ( concerned ) Hold it up. On Chris - his eyes opening. He seems all right.
CHRIS: ( trying to get up ) I'm okay . I'm okay. Chris crumples backwards. Elias helps him.
FRANCIS: Shit, King, it ain't d-e-r-e man, it's d-e-a-r, and Sara don't have no two r's in it, fool. Shame on King shrugs, a sleepy stoned voice.
KING: Don't matter, she knows what it means . an she don't read too good nohow .
LERNER: Mumm, any time sweetheart.
ELIAS: Lerner, you'd choke to death on it.
CAPTAIN HARRIS: Sky Six reports a fresh company of NVA moving across from Cambodia to this blue line. We got a good chance to light 'em up tonight. All platoons will set squad-size ambushes before full dark. Lt. Wolfe You 'bush in this area near that ol' Buddhist temple we passed on the hump in. Lt. Hawkins, you take this area in the rubber plantation.
LIEUTENANT WOLFE: ( eager ) No problem sir .
JUNIOR: ( a whining high voice ) Hey Big Harold, gimme your peaches for the fruitcake ( laughes loudly ) Fuck you bitch.
BIG HAROLD: ( laughes loudly ) Fuck you bitch.
JUNIOR: C'mon man, didn't I do you right that time I give you the turkey loaf for the ham and lima beans shit.
BIG HAROLD: Tricky bitch, reason you gimme dat turkey loaf is nobody else can eat that shit 'cept me so don't start your game playing with me Junior. They're both black, Junior with huge goggle eyes and a face of pimples and pockmarks, his teeth yellowed and decayed, some of them missing. Harold is about twice his size, about 250 pounds, a baby huey concentrating real hard on preparing his stove to eat Youse a pig man. I hope Manny get dat laundry gig for' you do.
JUNIOR: Youse a pig man. I hope Manny get dat laundry gig for' you do.
BIG HAROLD: De fool think he's gonna get it but he ain't known for his thinking.
JUNIOR: He's a fool alright but you a bigger fool. Hey, whiteboy, watcha waiting for - dat hole ain't gonna dig itself . Chris looks up, continues working, as Junior chuckles.
BIG HAROLD: ( getting up ) That reminds me, I gotta take a shit.
JUNIOR: You gonna wipe your ass dis time?
BIG HAROLD: Yeah if you let me have your shirt.
CHRIS: ( VOICE OVER, as he digs ) Somebody once wrote Hell is the impossibility of Reason. That's what this place feels like. I hate it already and it's only been a week. Some goddamn week, grandma . ( checking his raw blisters ) . the hardest thing I think I've ever done is to go on point, 3 times this week - I don't even know what I'm doing. A gook could be standing 3 feet in front of me and I wouldn't know it, I'm so tired. We get up at 5 a.m., hump all day, camp around 4 or 5 p.m., dig foxhole, eat, then put out an all-night ambush or a 3-man listening post in the jungle. It's scary cause nobody tells me how to do anything cause I'm new and nobody cares about the new guys, they don't even want to know your name. The unwritten rule is a new guy's life isn't worth as much cause he hasn't put his time in yet - and they say if you're gonna get killed in the Nam it's better to get it in the first few weeks, the logic being: you don't suffer that much. I can believe that . If you're lucky you get to stay in the perimeter at night and then you pull a 3-hour guard shift, so maybe you sleep 3-4 hours a night, but you don't really sleep . I don't think I can keep this up for a year, grandma - I think I've made a big mistake coming here . As he speaks, we cut around to various shots of the platoon members on the perimeter - shaving, eating, cooking, playing, etc
BARNES: ( to all, almost pleased about it ) We got boo-coo movement. 3rd Battalion just got hit 15 kliks north of here. ( the MEN react with wary silence )
O'NEILL: ( eager to elaborate ) Yeah, they had claymores strung up in the trees, blew a whole fucking platoon to pieces. BAAD SHIT. Barnes inflects his next words at Wolfe, who is worried.
BARNES: Yeah, they got two Lieutenants and a Captain.
WOLFE: Elias quiet. Barnes studying the map.
BARNES: Elias - you take your squad and I'll take Tex and Francis from your squad. We move out in two-zero mikes.
ELIAS: I thought it was O'Neill's turn tonight. They all look at each other. O'Neill spits in the dust, a freckled, short red head with a hard worried face, a lifer, 30 going on 60.
O'NEILL: Shit! Morehouse and Sal are short. Fu Sheng's going on R&R, you don't want to send their asses out on an ambush. You got the fresh meat Elias.
ELIAS: ( to Barnes ) They don't know shit Barnes, and chances are we gonna run into something.
O'NEILL: So what am I going to do! Get one of my guys zapped so some fuckface fresh from the World can get his beauty fucking sleep!
ELIAS: Hey O'Neill why don't you cool it, you don't have to be a prick everyday of your life, you know.
O'NEILL: Fuck you Elias.
BARNES: You get your men ready Elias . Concluding the debate, no further argument, Barnes rises. The meeting's closed. Lt. Wolfe hasn't said a word, looking as Elias departs, without a word.
O'NEILL: ( watching him ) Fucking guy's got 3 years in and he thinks he's Cochise or something . His resentment directed partly at the way in which Elias carries himself, the natural sense of grace - and the dignity it bestows.
TEX: Shit, looks like rain. All night too. Gonna grow mushrooms in your bad-ass crotch Junior.
JUNIOR: ( under his breath ) Goddamn ain't no justice round here, you break your ass for de white man . gonna get our act together, do some rappin' wid de brothers, change things .
CRAWFORD: What's O'Neill have a nose up the lieutenant's ass already, how come we always get ambush.
FRANCIS: Politics, man, politics. We always getting fucked around here. Chris is scared, nervous with his last-minute equipment adjustments, his pack obviously overweight for a night mission as he hauls it up. Gardner, the other new boy, is jovial in contrast, his wallet extended towards Chris.
GARDNER: Hey Chris, I show you a picture of Lucy Jean?
CHRIS: ( not to be bothered ) No . Gardner shows him his girl. She's real dog u-g-l-y, and what makes it worse is Gardner's put the standard photo of Raquel Welch alongside it, tits and all. But he misses the irony of it.
GARDNER: ( admiring ) Yeah she's the one all right . that's Lucy Jean. She's a-waiting for me.
CHRIS: ( nodding ) Yeah she's real pretty, you're lucky . Gardner puts it away. Elias appears alongside them, checking their packs out, takes out Chris's poncho liner and other items. He carries a modified M-16 with a short barrel and a collapsible ( to both boys ) Don't need this or this . you're doing okay. Just stick close to Tex, do what he does. ( calling out to Tex ) Tex you got Junior and Taylor here on your position. Tex is a sour Texas Ranger type, chews tobacco, spits.
ELIAS: ( to both boys ) Don't need this or this . you're doing okay. Just stick close to Tex, do what he does. ( calling out to Tex ) Tex you got Junior and Taylor here on your position. Tex is a sour Texas Ranger type, chews tobacco, spits.
TEX: Damn, 'Lias this gun's boss. Put Taylor someplace Chris feels the words like lashes on him.
ELIAS: You got Taylor . . Gardner you go with me lost don't yell out okay. Sit tight. We'll get to His eyes. Chris watching them. A smile in them. Elias moves off, a quality to the man that Chris admires. A natural sense of Okay, let's move out. As he follows King, on point, out the perimeter. A single file.
BARNES: Okay, let's move out. As he follows King, on point, out the perimeter. A single file.
TEX: Taylor, you're on.
CHRIS: ( groggy ) Uh hunh. The rain continuing to pelt them. Tex hands him an infrared ( suspicious ) You sure you know how to work the claymore?
TEX: ( suspicious ) You sure you know how to work the claymore?
CHRIS: ( offended ) Tex curls up as best he can in his poncho to sleep.
TEX: Okay . don't catch no zzz's on me buddy or I'll sling your motherfucking ass . You hear me?
CHRIS: ( grits his teeth ) ( looking at his watch ) Hey Tex - you're ten minutes fast.
TEX: Sin Loi. Chris lets it go, scans the jungle and trail with the scope. The POV is greasy and blurred. He puts it aside. Suddenly a series of resonant SNORES crack through the jungle. Chris starts, then sees it's from JUNIOR lying out there, spreadeagled in the rain. Chris prods him.
CHRIS: Unh? . Unh.
JUNIOR: Unh? . Unh.
CHRIS: Shaddup! You're snoring . Shhh. Bending low into his eardrum. Junior never wakes, rolls over with a growl. Silence.
TEX: THE CLAYMORE! GET THOSE FUCKERS! Chris, not knowing what he's doing, is fumbling with the claymore handles, presses them. INSERT: They won't give. He tries again and again to the squeeze the life out of them. Tex is screaming at him.
TEX: Feed me! He lays out red tracer bullets like laser beams, then suddenly reels back, whiplashed, screaming. A grenade explosion rocks AAAAAGHHH! MY ARM! MY ARM! His hand and wrist are gone, his face in the dirt. Junior is fumbling around, trying to stay down and help him at the same
JUNIOR: ( grabbing Tex's gun )
SHOUTS: HOLD IT UP! HOLD IT UP! The firing has ceased. A silence, punctuated by occasional shouts and fast moments, has enveloped once more the cemetery. Doc crashes through the bush, kneels over Tex, who continues to howl in deep pain.
TEX: ( freaked out )
DOC: Easy Tex easy boy! Trying to sound calm but his voice is on the edge, examinging the mutilation with a pen flashlight, he whips out his morphine in a big hypodermic.
VOICE: ( next position ) Doc over here! Gardner's hit.
DOC: 'Right there. As he slips the morphine into Tex's arm.
TEX: ( muttering at Chris ) . godamn! Godamn! DUMB FUCKER, DUMB FUCKER! Chris watching, suddenly feels himself dizzy, instinctively runs his hands over the back of his neck. Feels the warm blood there. A moan comes from his lips. Junior looks at him.
JUNIOR: Oh shit, Doc he's hit too.
CHRIS: ( weakly ) I'm hit . Barnes and Big Harold come hustling up. Doc finishes tourniquetting Tex, cradles Chris onto the earth, his flashlight probing the wound. Tex in background continues to thrash and moan. Chris waits, tensely for the verdict, his eyes big with fear on Doc, who takes out his morphine.
JUNIOR: ( to Barnes, pointing at Chris ) That dumb fuck didn't blow his claymore! Chris hearing this. Barnes looks at him.
DOC: ( to Chris ) . it's a scratch, nothing to worry about.
CHRIS: ( suspicious ) Doc . tell me the truth, don't lie to me. The needle goes in. Tex lets out this strange keening moan that sets everyone's teeth on edge.
JUNIOR: ( to Barnes ) He let'em walk right up on us. He was sleeping on his shift.
CHRIS: ( muttering weakly ) I was not . it was your .
DOC: ( leaving, to Harold and Junior ) Self-preservation's the first law of nature. Gotta learn how to work your shit Taylor. Watch me, don't let'em go into shock. Tex's moans are maddening and scary. Barnes suddenly clamps his hand over Tex's mouth shutting him up and from way down deep in his throat, chokes out the words.
BARNES: Shut up! Shut up - and TAKE IT! TAKE THE PAIN! Tex's eyes roll wildly, uncomprehending. Doc and Big Harold looking at Barnes, wondering. Tex is suddenly silent, shocked. Barnes stands, an icy glare, goes. Junior scrambles over to Tex's side. Doc runs off. Big Harold cradles Chris, his big black hands like a mother, reassuring him.
BIG HAROLD: You gonna be okay Taylor, okay, don't you start worrying now. Chris looking up at him, eyes blinking slowly, dazed already by the morphine. He's very scared.
CHRIS: Do you . do you know you're gonna die . Big Harold? . do you feel like . like . everything's gonna be fine and then .
BIG HAROLD: Bullshit man, you gettin outta the field, man. Three hots a day, white sheets, dem pretty white nurses give you blowjobs too you pay em enough, I heard tell bout dem white bitches. Better save yo strength Don babytalk him man. Cocksucker fell asleep. They walked right up on us, he don do shit.
JUNIOR: ( muttering darkly ) Don babytalk him man. Cocksucker fell asleep. They walked right up on us, he don do shit.
BIG HAROLD: Shaddup bitch. Chris is gettin woozier, feeling he is dying but starting to grin, not caring about it anymore. Yet he is nowhere close to It's not . so bad . dying. How long .. it .
CHRIS: It's not . so bad . dying. How long .. it .
BUNNY: ( stripping the corpse ) That's no NVA man. That's a chink - look at 'em, the cocksucker's six and a half feet tall. Look at his gear - good as ours.
FRANCIS: Shit I blew my claymore right in one dude's face and I seen him walking around afterwards.
MANNY: What we fighting here, vampires?
ELIAS: Blood trail just keeps going and going but no body.
BARNES: How the hell did he get away?
ELIAS: Fuckers returned fire soon as we lit 'em up. Hard core fuckin' NVA. They got their shit together.
RING: ( coming up to Barnes ) Sarge - Doc wants you. There's a problem with the new man. Elias and Barnes go with King. Past Chris and Tex who are ambulatory and bandaged, being helped along. As Barnes passes, the men look at him, everybody quickly senses something is wrong.
DOC: Chopper's on the way Gardner, hang in there, you gonna be okay . But Gardner seems unconcerned. Things are going on in his head - who knows what. And in his eyes there are big tears rolling. Then a morphine smile. A sort of goofy Gardner smile, maybe thinking about Lucy Jean, who knows. He's dead.
BARNES: ( to all ) Take a good look at this lump o'shit . ( motions to Gardner's body ) Rmember what it looks like, all of you. You fuck up in a firefight and I guaran-goddamn-tee you, a trip out of the bush - IN A BODYBAG. Out here, assholes, you keep your shit wired tight at ALL times . ( glares directly at Chris ) and that goes for you, shit for brains. You don't SLEEP ON NO FUCKIN' AMBUSH. Next sonofabitch I catch coppin' z's in the bush I'm personally gonna take an interest in seeing him suffer - I SHIT YOU NOT . He thumps Chris lightly but menacingly in his chestbone and moves ( drowsy ) I didn't fall asleep, Sergeant, Junior .
CHRIS: ( drowsy ) I didn't fall asleep, Sergeant, Junior .
BUNNY: ( pissed, cuts in, shoves him hard ) Shut your face chicken shit! You in big trouble boy!
O'NEILL: Excuses are like assholes, Taylor - everybody got Knock it off! We got two men need attention here. Police up your extra ammo and frags, don't leave nothing for the dinks. Hoyt, Junior, carry Gardner.
ELIAS: Knock it off! We got two men need attention here. Police up your extra ammo and frags, don't leave nothing for the dinks. Hoyt, Junior, carry Gardner.
JUNIOR: ( muttering ) Let de white boy carry his ass, he this dude that got him fucked up. Who'd be hauling his ass if that was a brother laying there? Elias follows Barnes out of earshot of the others.
ELIAS: Man'd be alive if he'd had a few more days to learn Barnes, registering it, just keeps on walking.
KING: Hey Taylor, what's in the breeze? In King's mild tone Chris tries to read his standing in the Okay - got light duty, three days.
CHRIS: Okay - got light duty, three days.
KING: Shit, too bad we in base camp anyway.
CHRIS: What you got there - beers?
KING: Yeah, just stole me some from the Top's supply but he's stealing it from us anyway. Chucks are coming. You better 'didi' man. Too late. Sgt. O'NEILL, the redhead lifer accompanied by Spec 4 SANDERSON, a big handsome blond kid, not too bright in the face, both slightly drunk, come around a corner, beer cans in hand. O'Neill sees Chris immediately.
O'NEILL: Hey Taylor - you back?
CHRIS: ( pause ) Uh, looks like it?
SANDERSON: ( spotting King's beer ) Where'd you get that beer King?
KING: ( a funny look ) I found it .
SANDERSON: You found it? . Bullshit! You going on report. Gimmee that shit.
O'NEILL: Awright, come here both of you. You too Taylor Got a little special job for you. They advance toward him reluctantly.
CHRIS: I got light duty, Sarge. Doctor said to take it easy couple days.
O'NEILL: ( laughes ) . ain't that tough shit now.
KING: ( pissed ) . Motherfuckah, motherfuckah, I'm too short to be dealing with this shit! They keep fucking with us man, no letup .
CRAWFORD: ( equally pissed ) Politics man, fuckin' politics. That O'Neill man got his nose so far up Top's ass he gotta be Pinocchio.
KING: Forty-two days man and a wakeup and I'm a gone motherfucker. Back to de WORLD.
CRAWFORD: Broke a 100. Got 92 to go. April 17. DEROS man. California this summer. Waves are good they tell me, surfin's gonna be good .
KING: March man in Tennessee, sniff the pines . sniff that crossmounted pussy walkin' down by the river. What you got Taylor? Let's see three hundred and WHAT?
CHRIS: . 32. 332 days.
CRAWFORD: ( groans ) Oh man! Sorry bout that. I can't even remember when I was 332. You gotta count backwards like you got 40 days in - think positive.
KING: ( to Chris ) How the fuck you get over here man, you look like you educated .
CHRIS: I volunteered.
KING: You WHAT? Say 'gain.
CHRIS: Yeah, I dropped out of college and told 'em I wanted infantry, combat, and Nam . He grins, finding their reactions funny. It's also the first time we've seen Chris crack a smile.
CRAWFORD: You volunteered for this shit man?
KING: You a crazy fucker, givin' up college man. King has long sleepy eyelids and cat's eyes, a large pink tongue and big white-edged cotton picker's nails - a lazy, gentle nature, content with the world.
CHRIS: Didn't make much sense. Wasn't learning anything . And why should just the poor kids go to the war - and the college kids get away with it. King and Crawford share a smile.
KING: What we got here a crusader?
CRAWFORD: Sounds like it. They pause, wipe the sweat off. King lighting up a half-smoked joint, hitting a few puffs, eyes shooting around, making sure he's not spotted, passing it to Crawford.
KING: Sheeit, gotta be rich in the first place to think like dat. Everybody know the poor always being fucked by the rich. Always have, always will. Noticing Chris is having trouble with his neck, picking at his You okay man? Neck botherin' you?
CHRIS: Nah .
KING: Here have some of this. Won't feel a thing. Chris looking at the joint, a little apprehensive. He's never No, thanks .
CHRIS: No, thanks .
KING: Go on, whatcha gotta lose, yo' here now .
CRAWFORD: Kills the smell of shit anyway. The joint proferred. Chris waits a beat, shrugs, takes it, Suck it in. Hold it . That's it. Now let it out. Chris blows it out.
KING: Suck it in. Hold it . That's it. Now let it out. Chris blows it out.
CHRIS: Don't feel it. King and Crawford chuckle, go on rolling the cans.
KING: Dat's what they all say.
CHRIS: . you know that night we got hit . I .
KING: Fuck it, don't mean nothing, no such thing here as a coward, done your best man, next time y'do better.
CRAWFORD: History, man, history. Chris surprised at their attitude. The joint suddenly hits him, a look in his face, eyes looking around different. Over at King.
CHRIS: ( deadpans ) I think I'm starting to feel that stuff . Crawford laughes.
KING: ( laughes ) Yo getting there Taylor. You be cool now and I'll introduce you 'round to some of the 'heads'.
CHRIS: What are the heads?
KING: ( laughes, walks away with Crawford ) Later . Chris alone, breathes deep, feeling the full effect.
RHAH: Whatcha doing in the underworld Taylor?
KING: ( smiling ) This ain't Taylor. Taylor been shot. This man Chris been resurrected . Chris wondering what he's doing here. His eyes roving over LERNER, CRAWFORD, MANNY, FLASH, FRANCIS, HOYT, TUBBS, DOC, other from the Platoon, about 9 or 10 of them. Rhah eyes him back, hands him the bowl.
RHAH: You lame Taylor?
CHRIS: You lame or something?
RHAH: You lame or something?
KING: ( smiling ) . go ahead on, smoke it man. Chris understands, takes the bowl. Hesitates. Then smokes it. The contact fumes are almost enough to knock him out. He starts coughing. They're all laughing.
RHAH: Your shit's in the wind troop. Baaaaah! Lerner replies, his tongue hanging out in parody.
LERNER: And Baaaaaaa! back on you.
RHAH: ( looking at Lerner with distaste ) If you're gonna do it man, 'least do it right. Building up to it, his eyes shaking with conviction at the whole insanity of the world, he neighs with all the venom he can They all laugh and applaud. King smoking from the pipe passing it back to Chris who takes another hit, doesn't cough this time, looking around, wondering about these guys.
LERNER: I didn't like it.
RHAH: Bah, you're a child, Lerner. Rhah don't waste time on you. They go on ad-libbing with each other, teasing Doc, who's fairly straight, saying he wants to go to med school in the fall. 'Be what?''A gynecologist, man.''What dat?' Francis suggests, 'Dats a pussy doctor, man - he's gonna be Doctor Feelgood, man!' They're all cracking up, finding every joke funny. As Chris finishes his hit on the pipe, looks up across the smoke, already dazed, surprised to see ELIAS suddenly there - leaning out of his sling in a far corner of the hooch. A Monkey is draped around his neck with silver bracelets, rings, a necklace - like a sensual little Egyptian whore, Elias playing with it, spaced out in a sleeveless vest, tiger pants. Dancing eyes on Chris, he swings out the hammock, comes over with the monkey. Meanwhile Manny has broken into a high falsetto snatch of blues directed at Chris, joined by Big Harold and Francis, all of them clicking their hands.
ELIAS: Put your mouth on that. Chris does so slowly, a little worried. Elias takes a hit and blows it down the bore - 'shotgunning' it into Chris' lungs. Chris staggers back, coughing. Everybody laughes 'hey dude - you done had your ass blown away' etc . Elias smiles his big white-tooth smile.
CHRIS: Then the worm has definately turned for you man. Chris puzzled by this expression.
ELIAS: Then the worm has definately turned for you man. Chris puzzled by this expression.
CHRIS: ( a sense of euphoria now ) Yeah. No pain in my neck now. Feels good.
ELIAS: Feelin' good's good enough. As he sucks in a huge mass of smoke off the bowl. His eyes performing a funny little hop, skip and jump, as he holds it, his face turning red. The monkey jabbers and jumps around on his neck, worried. Elias then blows the smoke out in its face, the monkey hating it. The Group laughes.
LERNER: Shit. Sold me out for some lame dude with a 4-F.
ELIAS: What'd you say her name was again?
LERNER: ( recalling her image ) Daisy Mae.
BIG HAROLD: Hey look at Charlotte! The monkey is sitting quietly stoned, its eyes blinking. Laughter off.
ELIAS: Daisy Mae! What Daisy Mae look like Crutcher?
MANNY: She look huge and got freckles on her ass.
LERNER: She look beautiful.
FRANCIS: How much she weigh man?
BIG HAROLD: She braid her hair under her armpits, Crutcher.
FRANCIS: ( sarcastic ) Daisy Mae what?
KING: Daisy Mae Highway, that's what. Well whatcha want, Lerner, your dick been limp for a year, 'cept when you're bopping your buddy Tony up Fuck that.
LERNER: Fuck that.
ELIAS: I fucked this chick in Hawaii man. Couple weeks ago . Oooooh! Wow - outasight. Gracie Slick man, she looked like Gracie man, I shit you not. The look on his face ensnares all of them, except perhaps Rhah.
MANNY: What happened man. What whorehouse you go to?
ELIAS: No whorehouse man. On the beach.
FRANCIS: Yeah, sure. She walked right by me. Long black hair, tits swinging. Ass like French bread. Legs don't end right.
ELIAS: Yeah, sure. She walked right by me. Long black hair, tits swinging. Ass like French bread. Legs don't end right.
LERNER: ( skeptical ) You can plant that shit in Tennessee man, but it won't come up in Texas.
CRAWFORD: So what she got, hair on her tits.
ELIAS: I just stopped man. My heart's beating like a hardon right I got a hardon sticking through my pants, my bathing suit looks like a hutch .
BIG HAROLD: I know dat feeling .
ELIAS: So I'm thinking to myself - Elias you walk away from this, you gonna regret this the rest of your natural life. So I go after her, follow her down the beach. You know find out if she is what she is. They're all hooked into this now.
KING: Well she was picking up her kids.
ELIAS: Well she was picking up her kids.
MANNY: Dat's dat.
ELIAS: No, dat ain't dat.
FRANCIS: Get outta here, she married .
ELIAS: Like two hogs in heat. Boy. Their throats knotting .
CHRIS: ( joining in ) . But what'd she do?
ELIAS: What didn't she do. She fucked the living shit outta me, that's what she did!
CRAWFORD: ( sucking in air ) Couldn't get enuff .
ELIAS: Couldn't get enuff .
CHRIS: But what'd she actually do?
ELIAS: She was a crossbreed, Chinese and Polish.
BIG HAROLD: What dat?
RHAH: ( finally hooked in ) And living in Hawaii man?
ELIAS: Yeah - and has blonde hair and almond-shaped eyes.
FRANCIS: Hey man didn't you say she had black hair?
ELIAS: She had blonde hair man. And long tan legs, in those leather sandals you know, with those thongs up to her knees, this musky oil on it . mmmm smelled good when they were wrapped around my face . They groan, dreaming of Hawaii.
DOC: BIG HAROLD Please, somebody hold my dick!
CHRIS: BIG HAROLD Please, somebody hold my dick!
BIG HAROLD: Please, somebody hold my dick!
ELIAS: ( in afterthought ) . and a broken nose.
DOC: Broken man?
ELIAS: Yeah, otherwise she would've been too perfect, y'know what I mean . some woman. Her name was . He forgets it. A grass blackout. Lerner urging him on.
LERNER: Elias shaking his head, trying to remember.
MANNY: Elias shaking his head, trying to remember.
CHRIS: Elias shaking his head, trying to remember.
KING: Merle? Jesus! . Patty?
RHAH: Merle? Jesus! . Patty?
BIG HAROLD: Elias snapping his fingers.
CHRIS: Elias snapping his fingers.
HOYT: Elias snapping his fingers.
ELIAS: Dawn! That was it!
CHRIS: ( repeating it ) Dawn . King listening to the sound of it.
KING: The others nodding, musing over it.
BIG HAROLD: Yeah, Dawn .
BUNNY: ( listening to the music ) Listen to that shit, that's good shit!
JUNIOR: ( irritated as always ) Fuck that redneck noise, dude. All dem chicks be rappin' how dey losin' der' ho's and how dey ain't got no bread for beer. Fuck dat honky shit. Got to get me some motown jams, dig it?
BUNNY: ( doesn't understand a word of it ) Whaddaya talking shit for man. Hey Junior! Y'ever smoke any shit?
JUNIOR: Das right dude. You be tryin' to string de black man out on dat shit and keep him DOWN. Time's be coming, my man, when de black man's gonna throw off that Say I can dig it. Smoke that shit everything kinda gets weird y'know? Y'hear that story the gooks is putting chemicals in the grass so's we become 'pacifists' so's we don Where the hell's everybody, they'se gettin high that's what - bunch of hopheads, they think they special .
BUNNY: ( lonely in his way for company ) Say I can dig it. Smoke that shit everything kinda gets weird y'know? ( hiccups, sits ) Y'hear that story the gooks is putting chemicals in the grass so's we become 'pacifists' so's we don ( to no one in particular ) Where the hell's everybody, they'se gettin high that's what - bunch of hopheads, they think they special .
JUNIOR: ( turns away, bored ) Don you worry Bunny, youse a killer anyway.
BUNNY: Yeah but I still like a piece of pussy once in a while - ain't nothing like a piece of pussy cept maybe the Indie 500.
JUNIOR: Youse so fucked up man.
BUNNY: Y'ever look at yoself in the mirror Junior, youse uglier than a dick on a dog man.
JUNIOR: Yeah, you had a piece of pussy on a plate in front of you, you'd probably kill it.
BUNNY: Shit, I bet I been laid more'n you have.
JUNIOR: Sure, you probably stick it in tween her knees and think youse there.
BUNNY: Only way you'd get some pussy is your bitch dies and wills it to you - and then maybe. Lt. WOLFE wanders down the aisle, beer in hand, slightly lonely, bypassing FU SHENG, the Hawaiin and TONY, a mustached hairy- browed Italian kid from Boston, who are playing some kind of dice game. They hardly acknowledge the Lieutenant who stops by RODRIGUEZ, the Mexican-American kid who is on his cot in his neatly arranged area writing a letter home with a pencil, forming his words with his mouth, as always minding his own business. Religious objects comprise his few decorations.
JUNIOR: Only way you'd get some pussy is your bitch dies and wills it to you - and then maybe. Lt. WOLFE wanders down the aisle, beer in hand, slightly lonely, bypassing FU SHENG, the Hawaiin and TONY, a mustached hairy- browed Italian kid from Boston, who are playing some kind of dice game. They hardly acknowledge the Lieutenant who stops by RODRIGUEZ, the Mexican-American kid who is on his cot in his neatly arranged area writing a letter home with a pencil, forming his words with his mouth, as always minding his own business. Religious objects comprise his few decorations.
LIEUTENANT WOLFE: ( amiable ) How you doing Rodriguez?
RODRIGUEZ: Good sir.
WOLFE: Need anything?
RODRIGUEZ: No sir. Wolfe winks at him, continues on to the POKER GAME going on in the center of the barracks, the main action. BARNES, Sgts.O'NEILL and WARREN, the quiet sullen black, SANDERSON and SAL play as ACE, the tiny radio kid, and MOREHOUSE look on; all of them drinking beer and bourbon chasers from a bottle.
WOLFE: ( to O'Neill ) How's it going Red? ( using his nickname )
O'NEILL: Shit, cocksucker's got all the cards tonight.
WOLFE: ( to Barnes ) Looks like you're doing all right Sergeant. Barnes, raking in the chips, is the big winner, a light bead of sweat on his forehead and a somewhat glassy look to the eye the only indication he is drunk - his shirt peeled off revealing a muscular, scarred body.
BARNES: Yeah, and I ain't even cheating yet.
SANDERSON: ( the big blond kid ) Have some Kentucky windage Lieutenant. ( passes him the bottle of bourbon ) Wolfe takes a nip.
BARNES: Play Lieutenant?
WOLFE: Nah, I wouldn't want to get raped by you guys .
O'NEILL: What are you saving up to be Lieutenant - Jewish? Laughes. Wolfe forces a smile, glad to move on. There is a continual worried rodent air about him, an anxiety, a desire to fill the vacuum in his leadership with a false masculinity.
WOLFE: Catch you men later. Enjoy yourselves. As he goes, O'Neill shakes his head after him.
O'NEILL: Sorry ass motherfucker ain't he. You think he gonna make it Barnes? Barnes plays a card, glances, a minute movement of his head.
ALL: '. Since you've left me, if you've seen me with another girl seeming like I'm having fun although she may be cute she's just a substitute because you're the permanent one .' King and Big Harold wave Chris into the Circle and he starts swaying with them, feeling as if he's being accepted into a new Rhah watches it all, puffing away on his magic dragon pipe, the shadows dancing on the walls. It looks like a Saturday night dance party. A yearning for tenderness, for feminity, for a moment of peace in this nightmare life. Their eyes closed, thinking of dance partners that can't be here tonight. Singing their souls out.
BARNES: The signal for silence. Chris freezes. Barnes edging up to him.
CHRIS: Doesn't see it. Following Barnes' imperceptible movement of his The bunker, dug into the ground and camouflaged with brush, is staring right at him, not more than 20 feet away. Chris is a dead man if . Barnes, checking the terrain, signals radioman Hoyt. Barnes edging up to the bunker, eyes everywhere. Chris following. The tension builds. They come up to the edge of it, peer in. Nothing. Barnes walks around it, slips in from back. Chris covers him, other guys coming up now, making a small perimeter. Chris now starts to see things he didn't see. Right in front of his nose - there is a trench from this bunker to another and another. There is now in his view a complex of bunkers and thatched hootches and lean-tos all blending into the forest. A ghost city . Elias and others fanning out now, careful . whispered conversations in the wind. Chris moves past a rope with freshly washed laundry stretching between two trees, clothes stirring in the wind. He looks up as King points out a treehouse, then looks down as Lerner whispers something and points - NVA rucksacks are laid out on the ground in an orderly platoon-sized pattern.
SANDERSON: Hey look at that. He opens the case. Official-looking documents are inside, they glance through them, lighting cigarettes, the search over, successful, they relax.
SAL: ( a worried type ) Leave it willya - it's gook shit.
SANDERSON: Nah this stuff's important. He puts the documents back in the ammo case, lifts it. It's the last thing he ever does.
BARNES: He runs over to Sal, gets a hold of his face in a vicelike grip, enraged, tries to yell some sense into him.
DOC: Holy Jesus!
ELIAS: Tell Six we need engineers here, this pos. is crawling with traps.
WOLFE: They're on their way . There's a gook village half a klik downriver, Battalion wants us to move in and search it ASAP, something's going on . where's Barnes?
BARNES: You gonna sit there and play with yourself Taylor or you gonna be part of my war . Awright, saddle up, let's go - Tubbs you got point. The men moving into jungle formation, silently. Chris walking over into line, stops for a moment - noticing a freshly-severed eyeball partially buried in dirt, staring up at him. He turns away, sickened.
O'NEILL: Where's Manny?
WARREN: Manny! . Hey Buchanan. There is no answer. The men in the platoon start to look at each other, sensing more trouble. Elias heads into the bush after him. Barnes watches him go. Francis, his friend, and Tubbs and King follow.
FRANCIS: Hey man whatcha doing . where you at? Get your black ass back in here!
BUNNY: Hey pig, pig - come here, pig, pig. The pig grunts. Bunny leveling his shotgun, fires point blank. A horrible squeal. Chris, directly behind him, looks disgusted.
TONY: There goes one! Their POV - a young VILLAGER fleeing down the slope. Barnes doesn't hesitate, nails him with a short volley of well- placed shots.
BARNES: ( to Tony ) Check him out. He turns back into the village.
BARNES: Get out of there you fuckheads move! Move! Fires a warning shot. Three VILLAGERS climbing out of the spider hole, arms raised, but not showing any emotion. Barnes turning to his radioman Hoyt and Big Harold accompanying.
FU SHENG: ( hustling up to Barnes ) Sarge, we found some shit! Barnes going with him.
CHRIS: La Dai! La Dai! GET THE FUCK OUTTA THERE!
FRANCIS: Hey take it easy man. They're scared.
CHRIS: They're scared? What about me! I'm sick of this shit man, I"m sick of this shit! They don't want us here! Who do you think they're fighting for! GET
OUTTA THERE!: Francis doesn't recognize him in his rage. Bunny now coming in, followed by O'Neill, drawn by the shouting.
SGT. WARREN: ( to Barnes ) . and over here there's enough rice to feed a whole fuckin' regiment . Barnes walking with him over to an undercover rice silo being dug out by Tubbs and Junior. Barnes looks it over.
BARNES: ( to Warren ) . bring the honcho over here. ( to Tubb and Junior ) Burn it.
BUNNY: Hey look at this! Ma and Pa Kettle here. Look at them - greasy gook motherfuckers!
CHRIS: Get up out of there! . You see I didn't wanna hurt you. Why didn't you come out, when I said so hunh! Why? WHY! WHY? DON'T YOU LISTEN . WHAT ARE YOU
BUNNY: Do 'em man, do 'em. Chris. The trigger. He pulls. But he can't quite bring himself to kill. The bullets exploding in the dirt at the edges of the young man's foot.
CHRIS: ( demonic )
FRANCIS: ( leaves ) Let's get out of here man. But Bunny takes up the slack, moves forward on the young man.
BUNNY: ( to Chris ) You chickenshit man, they're laughing at you, look at them faces. That's the way a gook laughs. The Young Man nodding affable to Bunny and mumbling ingratiating words in Vietnamese.
O'NEILL: ( checking out the hutch ) Forget it will ya, let's go . Chris standing there, watching, sensing something awful is going to come and unable to do anything about it. It comes - suddenly and without warning. Bunny is looking at O'Neill, the Vietnamese couple are muttering something. In one fluid move, Bunny swivels and with unbelievable savagery clubs the young one-legged man in the side of the head with the butt of his 16.
BUNNY: The young man is groaning on the floor of the hutch. Bunny smashes him - again and again.
MANNY!: As he clubs her to death. On Chris' face, blood and brain tissue flying up into it.
BARNES: Where'd he get these wounds? Lerner translates, the man talking back.
LERNER: He says he was hit in a bombing raid.
TONY: He's a dink fosure.
BARNES: Ask him what the weapons are doing here?
LERNER: He says they had no choice. The NVA killed the old honcho when he said no. He says the rice is theirs.
BARNES: Bullshit . who the hell was the dink we just nailed on the riverbank? Chris and O'Neill come up, watch. Others coming from different places - sensing the narrowing drama. But half the platoon is still at work in the village. We hear shouts, grenade explosions, occasionally gunfire.
LERNER: . He says he doesn't know, NVA haven't been around in a couple of months. Maybe it was a scout or . The men around Barnes grumble.
BARNES: Yeah sure it was. What about all that fucking rice and the weapons . who they for? Cocksucker knows what I'm saying . don't you Pop?
ACE: You're goddamn right he does! Lerner translating. The Village Chief's WIFE is now on the scene, a middle-aged woman with angry features, yelling at Lerner trying to answer for her husband, a high-pitched barrage of indignant words directed mostly at Barnes, and interspersed with the spitting of her betel nuts on the ground. The Village Chief trying to talk her down. But things are definitely getting out of control. And the heat from the sun is only aggravating the situation, pounding down on the actors in the drama, their fatigues soaked in sweat and anger.
LERNER: ( finally ) He swears he doesn't know anything! He hates the NVA but they come when they want and .
JUNIOR: He's lying through his teeth!
TONY: Waste the fucker, then see who talks.
BARNES: What's the bitch saying?
LERNER: ( overwhelmed ) She's going on, I don't know - why are we shooting the pigs, they're farmers . they got to make a living, all that crap . The Woman is still ranting when Barnes turns to her, quite casually levels his M-16, and puts a bullet in her head. She goes down as if pole-axed. A stunned pause. The Chief looking at his wife. The Villagers in background reacting. Wolfe looking . Chris looking, shocked. Doc, possibly the straightest of them all, very uncomfortable. They are all shocked insome way, but do nothing against the power of Banres. Barnes walks over to the pig pen with the other Villagers, very casually, confronts them.
BARNES: ( to Lerner ) Tell him he talks or I'm gonna waste more of 'em. Lerner shaken up, muttering to the Village Chief who is in shock, kneeling next to the body of his wife, muttering in a high whine of pain.
LERNER: They don't know Sarge, they don't know! Barnes turns his attention on the other villagers, his intentions apparent. Everybody feels them. They're next. Barnes is unperturbed, very much in command of the situation, no rage, no emotions expressed. Chris has never seen such a thing in his life - but can't react. Can't stop it, just watches it like he's not quite there. The same goes for Lieutenant Wolfe, for all of them. The very outrageousness of Barns' killing seems to quell all protest.
ACE: ( sensing the impending massacre ) Hey Sarge can we get in on this. Tony advances, the hairy Italian kid from Boston.
TONY: Let's go all the way, let's go for it! Let's do the whole fucking village. Come on, Sarge. Chris' eyes . Rodriguez next to him, is neutral but willing. Francis is hesitant. Fu Sheng and Junior are ready to go for it. Lt.Wolfe is powerless, frozen. Sgt.Warren stepping up. The massacre is just about to break. The Villagers know it, kneel in prayer, mutter. Barnes suddenly grabs and drags a young 19 year-old Woman, the Village Chief's daughter, across the pen, throws her down on her knees, in front of the stunned Village Chief. She's screaming.
BARNES: This his daughter, right? Lerner nods. Barnes pulls his .45, puts it alongside her head.
ELIAS: Barnes looks around. They all look around. Elias walks right up to him, followed by his men - King, Rhah, Crawford, others from the rear party. He looks around. The corpse of the Wife . the Young Daughter sobbing.
BARNES!!: Barnes looks around. They all look around. Elias walks right up to him, followed by his men - King, Rhah, Crawford, others from the rear party. He looks around. The corpse of the Wife . the Young Daughter sobbing.
BARNES: ( pissed ) Stay out of this Elias. This ain't your show.
ELIAS: YOU AIN'T A FIRING SQUAD, YOU PIECE OF SHIT!! The stock of his rifle swings up fast and hard smacking Barnes full in the face, breaking two teeth. Barnes staggers back, hurt, bleeding. Elias is on him like a leopard. Battering him with his fists. They struggle in the dust, two titans, their faces equally consumed with rage, clawing, spitting, punching, kicking, pounding each other's skulls in the dirt. A dust storm swirls around them, the men closing around like excited apes at a Most of the men seem to be pulling for Barnes - Chris just watching neutral.
LIEUTENANT WOLFE: BREAK IT UP! ELIAS! BARNES! But they rool on, smashing each other's faces in. Both quick, fast, agile, mean fighters. Sgts.O'Neill and Warren drag them You're dead, you're fucking dead Elias!
BARNES: You're dead, you're fucking dead Elias!
ELIAS: YOU - you're going to fuckin' jail, buddy, you ain't getting away with this one!!!!!
WOLFE: All right! All right! All right!!! NOW BREAK IT
ELIAS: ( to Wolfe ) Why the fuck didn't you do something Lieutenant!
WOLFE: What are you talking about!
ELIAS: ( spins him around ) You know what I'm talking about!
WOLFE: No I don't. I don't know what the fuck you're talking about, Elias! Who wants to be reminded? A silence of shame. The Men moving away, Warren, Ace, Tony, Rodriguez, Barnes looking back once, a cold glare. The Village Chief is a broken-looking man, huddled over his wife's body. Elias stands there, frustrated. Chris glances at him, moves out.
KING: Whew! - where that come from?
RHAH: Found it. Growing in a garden.
KING: ( smokes ) Sheeit, beats burning hutches anyway . They meditatively look out at the Village - burning hutches sending up spirals of smoke. Shouts. Shots. Chaos.
RHAH: Yeah - stoned's the way to be .
TONY: Take her up the ass . As they roll her over, like excited dogs in heat. Chris, coming up, sees their heads dipping up and down on the other side of the anthill, knows what they're doing. He makes a conscious decision to do something. He runs over.
CHRIS: LET HER GO! YOU HEAR ME! YOU ASSHOLE! LET HER GO! He strides right into them, shoves them off hard. The girl is in What the fuck you want - she's a dink.
TONY: What the fuck you want - she's a dink.
CHRIS: NO - YOU STUPID FUCK . DON'T . DON'T . YOU TOO BUNNY. MOREHOUSE. OFF! NO! DON'T . DON'T! He seems disconnected, dazed by the sun, like he's talking to dogs - loud, repetitive words coming out of an anger he can barely control, trying to restore some sanity to a world gone totally nuts today. Don't they understand? Don'tthey have any sense of a mind? Any kind of decency? The Men looking at him as if he's the one who's gone nuts, not them. Bunny looking at Morehouse looking at Tony looking at Junior. The irony is lost on them, as Chris pushes through to help the poor girl put her scanty clothes back on.
ELIAS: Get outta here. The men grumble and slink off quietly. Elias watching as. Chris helps her to her feet, wounded in the intestines, she can barely stand, blood saoking in her nether regions. Chris slings her up as gently as he can and carries her.
CHRIS: ( as if to himself ) It's okay, it's okay .
CAPTAIN HARRIS: . and you Lieutenant?
LIEUTENANT WOLFE: I didn't see anything sir.
ELIAS: I did.
LIEUTENANT WOLFE: That dink was reported to me as NVA sir by Sergeant Barnes. Sergeant Barnes. Squirreling out of any responsibility.
ELIAS: My report sir, will include Lt.Wolfe as being witness to the shooting .
CAPTAIN HARRIS: All right, Elias. Sergeant Barnes, I want a report from you .
BARNES: You got it sir - and I can throw in plenty of eye- witnesses if you want sir .
HARRIS: Not now. We'll get into this when we get back to base camp. Right now I need every man in the field, I want your guys to stick together . Elias? Barnes? . You hear me? This is no time for fighting with each other. Tomorrow we're going back into that bunker complex - from the East. First Platoon will lead . Brigade thinks they might be back there tomorrow. That's all . Get some Barnes, Elias eye each other and move off.
WOLFE: Don't worry about it Sergeant, he won't be able to prove a thing, he's a troublemaker but . Barnes is obviously worried, although he doesn't let on.
BARNES: Elias' a waterwalker . like them politicians in Washington. Want to fight their war with one hand tied round their balls. Ain't no time or need for a courtroom out here . Wolfe leaves him as Barnes turns into his foxhole where Bunny and O'Neill await him anxiously.
O'NEILL: How'd it go. Banres shrugs.
BUNNY: Thataway Sarge, fuckin' Elias man, fuckin' squeal that's what he is, gonna get everybody in the platoon in shit. Somebody oughta fix his ass . Barnes fixing his coffee.
O'NEILL: ( worried ) Gonna be an investigation or something Bob? Barnes says nothing, a cryptic look. O'Neill worried, Bunny, taking his cue from Barnes, slaps him on the back.
BUNNY: Ya worry too much O'Neill .
RHAH: I know Barnes six months and I'll tell ya something - that man is MEAN, red in his soul like a dick on a Barnes gets killed, his jaws'd go on clacking .
KING: Barnes gets killed, his jaws'd go on clacking .
CHRIS: Where's he form?
RHAH: Barnes comes from Hell.
LERNER: Tennessee someplace. Hill country.
RHAH: Barnes took a bullet right there. At Ia Drang Valley
KING: He done a year in Japan in the hospital, then when he gets out, the first thing he done is re-up. Four years he been in the field .
RHAH: . and you know how many times he done been shot? Seven times! And he still wanted to come back?
CHRIS: And he still wanted to come back?
LERNER: Does a pee wee wanna take a wee wee?
RHAH: The Good Lord works his revenge in strange ways.
KING: Yeah, you done said it. Revenge on US.
CHRIS: Does he have a metal plate in his head?
RHAH: ( smiles ) You mean he's crazy? No more crazy'n the rest of us been out in the bush too long.
LERNER: Well he ain't normal that's fosure.
RHAH: That's what he is . Baaaa! His hand flashes forward in front of Chris. 'HATE' is written across the left hand knuckles in a sloppy, purplish-black tatoo. Chris looking at it.
KING: Love, yeah!
LERNER: ( makes a cuckoo sign ) Here we go again with the crazy preacher stuff. Rhah seen too many movies.
RHAH: Baaa, got no time to go to the movies. Love and Hate too busy fighting for possession of my soul.
CHRIS: Where's Elias come from?
RHAH: ( interjecting ) 'Lias come naturally.
LERNER: . don't know. Done some time. Heard he worked the oil wells in Oklahoma, made some bread and washed up in El Lay.
KING: Yeah, get married to some crazy El Lay bitch, an actress or somethin', she blew all his bread - LSD, gurus, all that California shit, and then she turns him into the cops on a drug rap.
RHAH: Not the only man to meet his Jezebel either.
KING: So he got a reduced and come over here. Nam's his freedom man, Nam's his pussy. Three years he been Three years, Jesus, he's crazy as Barnes .
CHRIS: Three years, Jesus, he's crazy as Barnes .
KING: Well sometimes a man jes don' wanna go back. How you gonna talk to civilians man? People back in the world just don't give a shit, y'know what I mean, to them you're a fuckin' animal is all -
LERNER: ( to Chris ) I was home on leave y'know and everybody's just worried 'bout making money, everybody's out for themselves, they don't even want to talk about it man, it's like the fucking Twilight Zone back there - you wouldn't even KNOW there's a war on here. My sister says to me why you have to go there like I started this .
RHAH: Baaaa! Fuck it, they sold us out - so what! What'd you'all expect? Civilian life is phoney BULLSHIT man. They're ROBOTS man - watchin' dopey television and drivin' dopey cars, and they fuck up, nobody dies. That's all right, you keep fuckin' up, politicians keep lyin'. Cause it don't really matter. Don't mean shit. So what! Whatcha want - a parade! Fuck that too! No war time no grunt never got no respect. Till he was dead - and even THEN! You're fighting for YOURSELF man! You're fighting for your SOUL, dat's all. Remember dat. And it's some goddamn battle too - if you'se a man, wrestle with that angel . . Love and Hate - the whole shitbang show, that's the story then and now and it ain't hardly gonna change .
CHRIS: . I can't sleep, why don't you get some sack time.
ELIAS: . don't feel like it either.
CHRIS: . beautiful night.
ELIAS: Yeah. I love this place at night. The stars . there's no right or wrong in them, they're just That's a nice way of putting it. Elias cuffs a joint, keeping its glow hidden in the dark. A pause, both of them meditative.
CHRIS: That's a nice way of putting it. Elias cuffs a joint, keeping its glow hidden in the dark. A pause, both of them meditative.
ELIAS: ( philosophically ) Barnes believes in what he's doing.
CHRIS: And you, do you believe?
ELIAS: In '65 - yeah. Now . No. What happened today's just the beginning. We're gonna lose this war .
CHRIS: ( surprised ) You really think so . us? Elias' eyes seem to go to some inner place, his passion surging.
ELIAS: . we been kicking other people's asses so long I guess it's time we got our own kicked. The only decent thing I can see coming out of here are the survivors - hundreds of thousands of guys like you Taylor going back to every little town in the country knowing something about what it's like to take a life and what that can do to a person's soul - twist it like Barnes and Bunny and make 'em sick inside and if you got any brains you gonna fight it the rest of your life cause it's cheap, killing is cheap, the cheapest thing I know and when some drunk like O'Neill starts glorifying it, you're gonna puke all over him and when the politicians start selling you a used war all over again, you and your generation gonna say go fuck yourself 'cause you know, you've seen it, and when you know it, deep down there . He plants his fist in Chris' gut, expelling his breath such is the force of the blow - like a power passed between them.
CHRIS: Do you believe that stuff about . knowing you're gonna die?
ELIAS: Yeah, those are the guys that live. I really don't think Death gives a shit, it's like a giant garbage can, I think it takes whatever it can get . you never know where it's gonna come from anyway . so why spin your wheels? He shrugs, a certain bravado masking his own uncertainty.
CHRIS: . You ever think about reincarnation, all that A lightning quick movement follows. Elias' hand passing over his face like a mime, a click of the fingers and he leans closer to Chris. A new expression on his face. Devil's eyes, mocking child, danger in his soul, excitement, sex - the Elias that Chris saw in the smoking session in base camp. Chris smiles, sucked in, almost laughs and then the face is gone again.
ELIAS: Sure, goes on all the time. Maybe a piece of me's in you now, who knows. But when you die - really die - that's a big return ticket. I like to think I'm gonna come back as . as wind or fire - or a deer . yeah, a deer . He smiles at the thought. Chris looks at him, looks away. A shooting star falls suddenly and dryly through the cosmos. Their EXT. JUNGLE - STREAM - DAY ( RAIN ) The Platoon moves along a shallow STREAM bordering the jungle. A thick RAIN falls amid cracks of distant thunder. Chris, Rhah, Francis, Big Harold, others are at the rear of the platoon, their ponchos pulled over them like big sad grey tents. There's a holdup ahead and the Men rest on rocks or stand. The rain makes a pointilistic pattern, the men collages of grey, their rifles slung upside down to keep dry. Barnes is up ahead, out of the stream bank, on the radio.
HAROLD: Shit, lookit this little fucker trying to get up ma glory hole.
FRANCIS: Hey Big Harold, put dat in your turkey loaf it won't come out your back end.
KING: ( ribbing ) Yeah, big boy, thought you had that laundry gig all laid out?
BIG HAROLD: ( pissed ) Shit, got to paint myself white get one of dem jobs. Get ma request in for a circumcision.
KING: Gonna be a rabbi man?
FRANCIS: Gonna cut your pecker down to size hunh Big Harold?
BIG HAROLD: Dat's okay wid me, better to have a small one den no one at all.
KING: Your girlfriends gonna look for new lovers, man. Best thing a bro's got's his flap.
HAROLD: I'll drink to your flap in Chicago, King. All I gotta do is stretch it out to 15 days and I'll be short 15 and the Beast just wouldn't dare send me back to the bush.
FRANCIS: You gonna get some for me back in the World, Harold? Whatcha gonna do?
HAROLD: The world's gonna be ma oyster man. First's I gonna EAT - all the hamburger and french fries and steaks soaked in onions and ketchup I can get. Then I'se gonna FUCK and SUCK Sandy Bell till I sore all over and can't fuck no more, and den I'se gonna SLEEP for DAYS, for WEEKS! Den I'se gonna think bout what comes next . The words carry over Chris staring out at the rain, feeling a leaden fatigued high. Passes the roach, down to a millimeter, back to Rhah who points to his face.
RHAH: . you got one right there. Chris feels for, finds the leech on the edge of his lip, cursing under his breath.
LIEUTENANT WOLFE: ( in the stream, on radio ) All right move out. The men start slogging on against the rain. Junior is drinking from the stream, as Fu Sheng passes.
FU SHENG: Don't drink that asshole. You're gonna get malaria.
JUNIOR: Shit I hope so!
LERNER: Hey Sarge, you wanna tell me which way or do I get to figger it out? Sgt.Warren, picking up a quick azimuth on his lensatic compass, points. Lerner moves in the new direction.
SGT. WARREN: Ambush! Incoming! Fucking incoming! Suddenly an RPG rocket breaks out of the bush, sounding like an atom bomb as it devastates the front of the Platoon. Radio Talk is continuous now, back and forth between the three platoon radios, through the ambush.
O'NEILL: DOC, UP HERE! Lerner's hit! . More machine gun fire.
FRANCIS: DOC! Over here - we got . one . two down. Warren's hit.
CHRIS: What's going on?
O'NEILL: Shit they got RPG's on our ass. Fucking ambush - they was waiting for us to break trail!
KING: WATCH OUT! ROCKET! Another rocket whistling in. A huge roar. Trees shredded, dirt, dust rising.
CHRIS: Who's on point?
O'NEILL: Lerner and Warren. Chris uses his M-16 to lever himself up into a crouch and suddenly dashes forward, passing Rhah.
RHAH: Where you goin' man! Chris tearing up. Past Flash - the hip black head with the colored beads. He's dead, torn and shredded, his face and eyes stuff with dirt. Next to him Doc is frantically tourniqueting Tubbs, shot in the legs. He's screaming. Chris keeps moving to the front as if compelled.
BARNES: Goddamit, you assholes get fucking' firepower out Get Two Bravo up here. Get me a gun. Spread it out! More to the flanks! Look for a fuckin' target! Another explosion.
CHRIS: ( to Francis ) Where's Lerner?
FRANCIS: ( terrified ) Out there man - behind the log. Looking. A body - moaning, sort of moving, wriggling, as if trying to escape the pain.
CHRIS: Oh Jesus! His eyes moving to Sgt.Warren lying alongside a tree - calmly trying to stack his intestines back into his ruptured stomach. Another RPG comes in. Chris makes a conscious decision, moves up - bit by bit, shielding himself with tree stumps, ant hills, laying out fire, trying to get closer to Lerner. Francis following his progress, bug-eyed. Fu Sheng now comes up with his M-60 - Harold his loader, belts of ammo flapping against their bodies. He fires from the hip, providing cover fire for Chris, then pops down.
CHRIS: Lerner! Lerner, can you hear me man? Lerner groans. A fresh burst of AK fire rakes the area. Lerner jerks spasmodically with the impact of the rounds. Chris spots the sniper. In a hole in the ground. Twenty-five meters off. Snapping the magazine out of his AK to reload. A live gook. Chris tears off a volley at him but the gook disappears in the hole. This is the moement, Chris realizes it, it's now or never if Chris intends to get the gook. He's got to make a move before the man has reloaded his weapon. He pulls his grenade, pops the pin. He lets the spoon fly off, activating the grenade-timer, as he humps to his feet and runs for the gook hole, concentrating, concentrating. That head is going to pop up any second with a freshly-loaded weapon and tear his head off. Chris won't make it back to the hole. The throw has to be perfect. He won't get another chance. He heaves the frag, drops and rolls away. The throw is perfect, the golden arc of flight from the outfield nailing the baserunner. It twists cleanly in the hole. The explosion muffled but deadly. Chris scrambles to his feet, a look of almost total surprise on his face. He can't seem to believe he did it. Pointing his M-16 before him, he advances on the hole, looking over the muzzle to see the badly-mangled NVA man twisted at the bottom. Chris hurries over to Lerner. He's in bad shape, hit in several places, vaguely conscious.
WOLFE: ( into the radio ) Redleg, Redleg . Ripper Bravo Two Actual. Fire mission. Grid six-four-niner . four-zero-two. Direction six-one-zero-zero. Dinks dug in bunkers. Danger close. Adjust fire, over .
RADIO VOICE: Rog, Two Bravo. Solid copy, stand by for shot, out.
ACE: Sir, Bravo Three is inbound from the Sierra Whiskey. Should be here in two zero mikes if'n they don' hit any shit.
WOLFE: Fuckin' A! Elias runs up to him. Fire all around, incoming and outgoing, makes them yell to each other.
ELIAS: Lootenant, they're kickin our ass, they know we're gonna bring heavy shit on 'em pretty soon so they're gonna get in tight under the arty. I spotted a cut running around to the left. Lemme take some men and roll up that flank .. I can work right up on 'em . Wolfe unsure, looks up for the artillery.
WOLFE: ( to Ace ) Get me Barnes . I don't know 'Lias, we got four down up there, if I split you off, we . Elias grabs a stick, urgent, starts drawing their position in the dirt for Wolfe.
ELIAS: Look, Lootenant . Wolfe looks up, relieved as Barnes splashes into the CP group. Thunder peals.
BARNES: ( yelling at Wolfe and Ace ) Where the fuck is red platoon! Tell 'em to get their asses up here! What the fuck you doin' back here Elias? Round up your assholes and move 'em up front, we're getting chopped to shit.
ELIAS: ( yelling back ) Barnes, listen to me . there's 5-6 spiderholes back ( points ) next to the church. ( draws it into the ground as he talks ) Third Platoon's coming up the stream to reinforce us. Flank's wide open, dinks get 3-4 snipers in these holes, when Third Platoon comes up, they'll get us in a crossfire with 'em. We'll shoot each other to shit, then they'll hit us with everything they got. It'll be a massacre! Barnes looking at the drawing.
WOLFE: Sounds pretty far out to me 'Lias.
ELIAS: Maybe but I seen it happen at Ia Drang in '66, First Cavalry and they cut us to fuckin' pieces! Give me three men, if I'm wrong, I can still roll up that flank.
BARNES: ( a look ) Take off, but keep your radio here. Elias goes, stops, looks at Barnes .
ELIAS: . You keep pouring out that suppressing fire, Barnes. I don't wanna be caught out there with my ass hanging out you hear me?
BARNES: Don't tell me how to fight this fucking war, 'Lias, you go crying to fucking brigade on your time. Out here you belong to me. Now move. A look. Elias goes fast. More thunder peals. As the 155mm howitzers - sounding like deep tom-toms some three miles distant - beat out their shells. An ominous sound. Closer.
ACE: Sir! Shot out. Arty's on the way!
BARNES: ( hurrying back to the front ) Get that asshole O'Neill up here willya!
BIG HAROLD: Short round! It's short, man! They fuckin' got Fu Sheng! BARNES! OVER HERE!
BARNES: That fuckin' idiot! It explodes. This is about three times the intensity of the RPG. The jungle floor shakes, trees splinter. Barnes is knocked to his knees, rimaces in pain. Hoyt, Barnes' radio operator, screams out as a fist-sized chunk of hot shrapnel sticks in his back. He's screeching, frantically trying to shuck the radio from his back, his fatigue shirt smoking. Barnes jerks the radio off Hoyt's back, knocks the man to his knees and unsheathes his bayonet. Ripping off the back of his shirt, Barnes sets to digging out the shrapnel.
BUNNY: Satchel charge! GET DOWN! Harold goes for the ground the same instant the satchel explodes.
CHRIS: Take care of him Doc! Please! Doc looking at him, a dark look of hopelessness. Lerner is a mess, groaning, reaching for Chris' hand.
LERNER: . don't . don't leave me man . A look between them. Rhah instersecting.
RHAH: Taylor - get your ass over here. Move!
CHRIS: Hang tough, Gator. Hang in there, man, you're gonna be OK . just hang on. Feeling like a liar, peeling the man's hands off him, leaving him there looking numb. Chris is shaken, Lerner's blood all over He tears out after Rhah, linking up with Elias and Crawford. Elias motioning them to hurry. Another huge artillery round exploding out to the front.
BARNES: YOU IGNORANT ASSHOLE! - What the fuck coordinates you giving! You killed a bunch of people with that fucked up fire mission! You know that? . ah shit! Wolfe stares at him, open-mouthed. Disgusted, Barnes hunkers down to read the coordinates from his own map into the handset.
ELIAS: Move it! Move it! Elias comes to a stop, looks. Behind them we hear the sounds of battle, gauging their distance from the main body. The spider holes are still empty. But he listens, senses something out there getting closer.
RHAH: ( team leader ) One of them gets through it's curtains.
ELIAS: One of them gets through it's curtains.
RHAH: Where you going?
ELIAS: Down along the river 'bout 100 metres, 'case they try to flank us there. Third Platoon's coming up on our rear so watch for 'em.
CHRIS: I'll go with you.
ELIAS: No . I move faster alone. Elias, his pack stripped, is gone, like a fleet leaf, vanishing into the Jungle.
RHAH: ( stringing them out ) Okay Crawford - over here. Taylor - down twenty yards behind that tree.
BARNES: Let's move back, link up with Three. Let the arty do a little work. Push Two Alpha and Two Charlie. Tell'em to haul ass and re-group at the church. Tell'em NOT to fire.
WOLFE: What about Elias? We pull back they'll be cut off. He needs cover fire.
BARNES: ( looks at him like he's stupid ) I'll get him. ( with a threatening undertone ) You just haul ass too lootenant. ( going, to Ace ) . don't send Bravo Three up till I get back to the CP. Now move out, all of you. As he snaps his weapon onto full auto and runs off after Elias in a crouch . a man with a mission.
CHRIS: GET EM!!!!! Rhah and Crawford open up. A rachet of sound, one of the fiures seems to go down, then another but at this distance through jungle it is difficult to say. The firing just as suddenly breaks off and the silence returns.
GET EM!!!!!: Rhah and Crawford open up. A rachet of sound, one of the fiures seems to go down, then another but at this distance through jungle it is difficult to say. The firing just as suddenly breaks off and the silence returns.
RHAH: I got one .
CHRIS: . See them go down? Like fuckin' target practice man, fuck you Charlie!! Ho Chi Minh sucks dead dick! . Crawford! Crawford, the blond-locked California beach boy, lies on the earth, hit in a lung, having difficulty breathing, moaning in a soft undercurrent. Chris runs up on him.
RHAH: Looks like a lung babe. But you're gonna be all right, you only need one of them fuckers.
CRAWFORD: Oh shit man I never thought I'd get hit, I was .
RHAH: Stay cool. We gonna carry you out. Barnes appears, running towards them, looking down at Crawford, at Rhah.
BARNES: Where's Elias?
RHAH: . came through right over there. We got three of them, we .
BARNES: Didn't you hear the arty shift? We're pulling back. Get your wounded man and get the fuck back to the church. Get going.
CHRIS: ( indicating jungle ) . but 'Lias is still out there.
BARNES: I'll get him. You get the man in, Taylor NOW. Or I'll Article 15 both your asses. Move! Chris and Rhah look at Barnes sullenly, then reluctantly start moving Crawford onto a poncho liner they use as a litter.
RHAH: EXT. ELIAS AND BARNES' JUNGLE - DAY Barnes moving, stops, listens. Something is running towards him. But it's hidden by the bush. He brings his rifle up smooth and quick, waits, then as the bush parts, Elias is standing there. Looking at Barnes. Barnes sees him, starts to lower his rifle, but then stops. He raises it back an inch, sights it. Pause. A cold searing look of hatred coming over his face. In that moment, Elias understands. Quick as a deer, he makes his move, trying to plunge back into the bush. Barnes fires. Once, twice, three times - the blast rocking the Elias jerking backwards into the bush, mortally wounded. Bird cries. A crime against nature. Barnes calmly lowers his rifle, and walks away from it.
BARNES: Elias is dead. Join up with the platoon. Move it.
CHRIS: ( shocked ) He's dead! Where? . You saw him?
BARNES: Yeah. Back about 100 metres. He's dead, now get going, the gooks are all over the fuckin' place. Moving on quickly. Chris has no choice but to follow, looking back one more time.
WOLFE: MOVE IT MOVE IT MOVE IT. Lerner goes by, horribly wounded on a makeshift litter, into the chopper, Doc attending, holding the IV. Chris catching a glimpse of him, waiting to get on the chopper, turning to look as: Hoyt and Sgt.Warren, both wounded, are hurried aboard on litters. The chopper lifting off. Chris and others now running to the corpses of Flash, Morehouse, and Fu Sheng lying under dirty ponchos, their boots sticking out. The ponchos are blown away in a burst of wind off the chopper blades, revealing their faces - dirt stuffing their eyes and mouths, waxen figures. Chris and the others lifting them and carrying them towards the next chopper now coming in. They throw the bodies on. Tubbs and Crawford, both wounded, now move past Chris, into the chopper. Chris running back, with King carrying a litter - their eyes falling on: Barnes talking with Wolfe and Ace, making signals under the roaring sounds of the chopper. Shaking his head. No. No Elias. Chris and King looking at each other, mute. They numbly start loading Big Harold, minus his leg, onto the stretcher. The Third Chopper is down now, waiting, roaring blades silhouetting off the face of the cathedral. A ROCKET BLAST suddenly goes off not too far from the chopper, incoming fire. The DOOR GUNNER signaling for them to hurry, laying out fire.
KING: Man, you gonna be in Japan this time tomorrow, Big Yeah, I'se lucky dis time, what's a leg to get the fuck outta here . Eat ma shit, you motherfuckers! He sinks back, sick. Chris' eyes sudenly fix on something. He can't believe it. He shoves King, points. King sees it. Both Barnes is looking. So's Lt.Wolfe, so's Ace. So's the Door Elias is coming out of the jungle. Staggering, blood disfiguring his face and chest, hanging on with all his dimming strength, looking up at them - trying to reach them. Chris shakes Wolfe, his words drowned out by the roar. The Chopper Captain looking down, dips. His co-pilot pointing. The NVA are coming out of the jungle, closing on the spot where Elias is. Incoming rounds are hitting the chopper. The Door Gunner maniacally firing. Barnes looking down at the man, can't believe it. Elias is on his last legs now, obviously being hit by the incoming fire of the NVA. He falls to his knees, still stretching upwards for life. The Chopper Captain shakes his head at Wolfe. The Chopper dips one more time firing at the NVA, low and fierce over the jungle. Chris looking back in horror. Elias crucified. The NVA coming out now by the dozens from the Elias crumbling to the ground. Obviously dead or dying.
BIG HAROLD: Yeah, I'se lucky dis time, what's a leg to get the fuck outta here . Eat ma shit, you motherfuckers! He sinks back, sick. Chris' eyes sudenly fix on something. He can't believe it. He shoves King, points. King sees it. Both Barnes is looking. So's Lt.Wolfe, so's Ace. So's the Door Elias is coming out of the jungle. Staggering, blood disfiguring his face and chest, hanging on with all his dimming strength, looking up at them - trying to reach them. Chris shakes Wolfe, his words drowned out by the roar. The Chopper Captain looking down, dips. His co-pilot pointing. The NVA are coming out of the jungle, closing on the spot where Elias is. Incoming rounds are hitting the chopper. The Door Gunner maniacally firing. Barnes looking down at the man, can't believe it. Elias is on his last legs now, obviously being hit by the incoming fire of the NVA. He falls to his knees, still stretching upwards for life. The Chopper Captain shakes his head at Wolfe. The Chopper dips one more time firing at the NVA, low and fierce over the jungle. Chris looking back in horror. Elias crucified. The NVA coming out now by the dozens from the Elias crumbling to the ground. Obviously dead or dying.
CHRIS: He killed him. I know he did. I saw his eyes when he came back in .
RADIO VOICE: ( puffing on his bowl ) How do you know the dinks didn't get him. You got no proof man.
CHRIS: Proof's in the eyes. When you know you know. You were there Rhah - I know what you were thinking. I say we frag the fucker. Tonight. He looks to King who puffs on a joint, his eyes red.
KING: I go with dat, an eye for an eye man.
DOC: Right on, nothing wrong with Barnes another shot in the head wouldn't cure.
RHAH: ( to Chris ) Shit boy you been out in the sun too long. You try that, he'll stick it right back up your ass with a candle on it.
CHRIS: Then what do you suggest big shot?
RHAH: ( to Chris ) I suggest you watch your own asses cause Barnes gonna be down on ALL OF 'EM.
FRANCIS: How you figger that?
RHAH: Shit man - Human nature. Flashes the old knuckle - 'HATE'.
KING: Then you jes gonna forget 'bout Elias and all the good times we done had? Right in here.
RHAH: He dugged his own grave.
DOC: ( correcting ) He dug it.
RHAH: He DUGGED it too.
CHRIS: Fuck this shit!
RHAH: You guys trying to cure the headache by cutting off the head. 'Lias didn't ask you to fight his battles and if there's a Heaven - and god, I hope so - I know he's sitting up there drunk as a fuckin' monkey and smokin' shit cause HIS PAINS HE DONE LEFT DOWN HERE.
CHRIS: You're wrong man! Any way you cut it Rhah, Barnes is a murderer.
KING: Right on.
RHAH: I remember first time you came in here Taylor you telling me how much you admired that bastard.
CHRIS: I was wrong.
RHAH: ( snorts ) Wrong? You ain't EVER been right - 'bout nothing. And dig this you assholes and dig it good! Barnes been shot 7 times and he ain't dead, that tell you something? Barnes ain't meant to die. Only thing can get Barnes . is Barnes! Barnes stands there, silhouetted in the trap door, looking down at the men who are stunned to see him here. He steps down into the hutch, his face now lit by candle light. A bottle of whiskey in his hand, drunk, ugly, sweating, but as always, with dignity, possessive of his silence. He feels their fear in the silence, enjoys it.
BARNES: ( soft ) Talking 'bout killing? He totters slightly as he circles the outer edge of the hutch. No one talks.
CHRIS: KILL YOU MOTHERFUCKER!!! Chris slams into Barnes, rushing him off his feet. Pounding his face, solid blows.
RHAH: EASY BARNES, EASY MAN!!! Barnes is on the verge - about to kill again. Chris waiting. Rhah coaxing him, moving closer.
BARNES: ( contemptuous ) Death? What do you guys know about it? He walks out. Quietly.
ACE: . they caught 'em last night pulling some shit on Charlie Company. They found maps on 'em, man - got a friend at Battalion says they had every fuckin' foxhole here fixed on it. Distances, treelines, our claymores, trip wires, everything? I shit you not.
DOC: Shit, so what the fuck are we doing here? Why don't we move . Bad vibes, man, I got bad vibes here. Where are the new guys they provided us anyway.
TONY: I heard we's in Cambodia right fuckin' NOW.
FRANCIS: You kidding man . Rhah comes up, a walking stick in hand, huge pirate kerchief on his head, semi-naked.
RHAH: You wanted to see me sir?
WOLFE: Jackson, looks like you got Elias' squad now.
RHAH: Squad? I didn't know we was still referring to this platoon in terms of squads sir.
WOLFE: ( indicating a rough drawing in the dirt ) These two holes are yours .
RHAH: Begging your pardon Lieutenant but my holes are far enuff apart you could run a regiment through there and nobody'd see them - I got five live bodies left
WOLFE: I don't want to hear your problems, Jackson. You'll get new men any day. Time being you make do like everybody else.
RHAH: Hey Lieutenant I didn't ask for this job, I .
WOLFE: ( leaves ) I don't want to hear about it Jackson.
RHAH: ( amazed, looking off at him ) You don't want to hear about it?
WOLFE: ( turns ) That's right. I don't want to hear about it 'cause to tell you the truth, I don't give a shit okay . I just don't give a shit anymore.
RHAH: ( shrugs, to himself ) Right .
WOLFE: ( passing Ace digging the CP hole ) This is one time we could sure use Elias.
ACE: ( to Doc ) 'Some people say I'm wishy washy. Maybe I am. Maybe I ain't.'
KING: Glad I ain't going with 'em. Somewhere out dere man is de Beast and he hungry tonight . Man, what a bummer. Ten days and a wakeup and I'm still dealing wid this shit - fuckin' etcetera and ad infinitum man
CHRIS: . there's nobody.
KING: ( shifts, uncomfortable ) You been smoking too much shit babe. Gotta control that. Takes a man down . I remember when you first come out to the bush, you was straight as a .
CHRIS: Who gives a shit! He shifts, annoyed, prepares his grenades along the sand bags. King shrugs, preparing his meal, sings himself a snatch of song, a good natured man.
KING: ( soft ) 'People say I'm the life of the party cause I tell a joke or two although I may be laughing loud and hardy deep inside I'm blue .'
CHRIS: Y'ever get caught in a mistake King and you just can't get out of it?
KING: Way out of anything, man. Just keep your pecker up, your powder dry, the worm WILL turn. How many days you short?
CHRIS: Not just me . it's the way the whole thing works. People like Elias get wasted and people like Barnes just go on making up rules any way they want and what do we do, we just sit around in the middle and suck on it! We just don't add up to dry shit.
KING: Does a chicken have lips? Whoever said we did, babe. Make it outta here, it's all gravy, every day of the rest of your life man - gravy. Oh shit, superlifer! O'Neill comes up, jerks his thumb at King.
O'NEILL: Get your gear together, King, your orders just come You jokin' me man? . shit, you ain't kidding! Cocksucker. Oh wowww . the lifers made a mistake, they cuttin' me some slack, they cutting me some slack Taylor!
KING: ( speechless ) You jokin' me man? . shit, you ain't kidding! Cocksucker. Oh wowww . the lifers made a mistake, they cuttin' me some slack, they cutting me some slack Taylor! ( dances )
O'NEILL: Collect your shit and move out King. You got 10 minutes make the last chopper. Cee ess em oh or your ass is mine. Francis is coming over. King packing up, double time. Chris comes over, helps him, trying to share his happiness but not succeeding.
CHRIS: Hey that's great King, that's great . you take it on home for me, you tell 'em King . got your address right? You know where you can reach men, man. Anytime!
KING: I gotta didi man. Don't wanna miss that chopper. I'll send you a postcard. After I get me some. I'll send you some tapes too man. This new guy Jimi Hendrix man, whew . you okay Taylor? Just 'member take it easy now, don't think too much, don't be a fool, no such thing as a coward cause it don't mean nuthin. Jes keep on keepin' on. Okay my man . Chris, fighting his depression, slaps hands with King. A brief moment, they look at each other. A friendship that was forever and is now over. They both sort of know they'll never see each other again.
CHRIS: I'll walk you out . Francis coming up, hauling his pack.
TONY: Rumor goin' round is they got tanks. Soviet shit, T- 34's . Hey Rodriguez, don't you ever say nothing?
RODRIGUEZ: ( a thick Mexican accent ) What do you want me to say, it's all the same ol' Tony shrugs, back to his food.
BARNES: So what's the problem?
O'NEILL: Says he can't walk.
BARNES: Shit. Get your boots on Martin, next time I catch you putting mosquito repellant on your fuckin' feet I'm gonna courtmartial your nigger ass.
JUNIOR: ( cracks ) DEN COURTMARTIAL ME MOTHERFUCKAH, bust my ass, send me to fucking Long Binh, do your worst but I ain't walking no more. De white man done got his last klik outta me. Get some chuck dude to hump this shit.
BARNES: ( suddenly soft ) Get me that centipede, O'Neill. O'Neill is puzzled. What centipede?
O'NEILL: Yeah that long hairy orange and black bastard I found in the ammo crate. I'm gonna put it in this asshole's crotch, see if he can walk. Junior's eyes bulge with suspiscion and sudden terror, his demeanor totally alert now.
BARNES: Yeah that long hairy orange and black bastard I found in the ammo crate. I'm gonna put it in this asshole's crotch, see if he can walk. Junior's eyes bulge with suspiscion and sudden terror, his demeanor totally alert now.
O'NEILL: ( understanding ) Oh yeah, right away Sarge.
JUNIOR: No! Wait! I'll walk, fuck you I'll walk, I don't need this shit! I don't need this shit!
BUNNY: Fucking pussy, fuck it Sarge, I gotta have him on my Barnes going. O'Neill catching up with him.
O'NEILL: Uh . Bob. Like to speak to you. Take a minute.
BARNES: ( stops ) Yeah, what is it?
O'NEILL: ( shuffles, reluctant ) Bob, I got Elias' R&R . It's coming up in 3 days. Going to Hawaii. See Patsy. ( pause, no reaction from Barnes ) I never asked you for a break, I was hoping you . you'd send me in on the chopper with King . what do you say Chief? ( a friendly punch )
BARNES: I can't do that for you, Red . We need every swinging dick in the field. Sorry bout that .
O'NEILL: ( pleads ) Hey Bob, come on! Talk to me hunh, it's your friend Red, I'm only asking you for three days chief .
BARNES: I'm talking to you Red and I'm telling you no. Get back to your position.
O'NEILL: ( grabs him, desperate ) Bob, I gotta bad feeling about this, I . I'm telling you I got a bad feeling, man, I don't think I'm gonna make it .. y'know what I mean?
BARNES: ( quietly ) . everybody gotta die sometime Red . Get back to your foxhole. A look in his eyes. Very remote, very cold, silencing O'Neill. Barnes walks off.
SMOKING MAN: Got a light?
CHRIS: Uh sure . Goes over reluctantly, flicks his lighter, cupping it from the wind. The flame catches a sudden, uneasy expression in Chris' face as he sees the Smoking Man. We come around and see what Chris sees in the light of the flame. A face that smiles at him like a death's head, a large ugly blister on his mouth, whiskered, pale - but smiling. A sick man wouldn't smile like this, but he is smiling too intimately, as if he knows Chris from way back. But he doesn't. Or does he? Perhaps it was the man Chris first saw at the airstrip when he came in-country. The same expression of evil, of a man who has seen too much and died, but still lives. Chris feels an unnatural fear passing through him. The Man stands, sucking on his cigarette, stretches. He is thin and very tall, towering over Chris.
SMOKING MAN: . later. He goes. Chris watches him, wondering. The man never looks back, a leisurely, confident stroll. In that moment, there is an EXPLOSION from way out in the jungle, about a quarter of a mile. Then another, then small arms fire. Chris looks, knows.
BUNNY: . y'know some of the things we done, I don't feel like we done something wrong but sometimes y'know I get this bad feeling. Not all that shit the Chaplain's jamming up our ass 'bout the Good Lord . just a fucking bad feeling, y'know what I mean? Don't know why. I told the Chaplain the truth is I really like it here. You do what you want, nobody fucks with you. Only worry you got's dying and if dat happens you won't know about it anyway. So what the fuck . Junior looks at him like he's really crazy. Back to the distant Fuck! I gotta be on this hole with YOU man. I just know I shouldna come! Bunny finds it funny, laughs.
JUNIOR: ( pissed now ) Fuck! I gotta be on this hole with YOU man. I just know I shouldna come! Bunny finds it funny, laughs.
BUNNY: Don't you worry bout a thing Junior, you with Audie Murphy here, my man .
HARRIS: Bravo Three Alpha! Send me a grid. Send me a grid, A young inexperienced VOICE screams back into the radio amid intense background FIRING filtered by radio and sounding We're pinned down sir, they're in the fucking trees! The trees -
RADIO VOICE: We're pinned down sir, they're in the fucking trees! The trees -
HARRIS: OK, Three Alpha, calm down now, son. I'm gonna get you a fire mission ASAP. Smoke'll be first .
RADIO VOICE: ( panic ) Lieutenant's dead sir, radioman look dead sir, I don't know where the map is Captain! They're all around us sir. They're moving! Hundreds of em! I can hear em talking gook!!! Jesus Christ!
HARRIS: ( calming him ) . Just spot the smoke son and tell me where to shift. We'll get you out of there. Just hang tough and tell me where the rounds hit, over.
HARRIS: Bravo Three Alpha six. How bout those rounds son? Can you adjust fire? Three Alpha, if you can't talk, just key the handset twice over. Silence, then a vague MURMURING - becoming clearer and clearer. It's in Vietnamese. The radio is then bashed in, the sound like thunder in the Captain's ear. He looks at his RTO, both of them EXT. NVA JUNGLE - NIGHT/DUSK In the Jungle itself, the ENEMY is moving. Flurries of movement and sound, blurred visuals. Hands taping a piece of cloth to a tree, moving on - revealing a luminous arrow pointing left . Figures moving past it. Hands unraveling a thin wire waist-high, backwards. Hands sliding along another wire. We now see a moving helmet with a luminous plaque on the back of it, leading a file up the wire. To a Jump-off point about 50 yards outside the U.S. perimeter. Figures crouch. Whispers. Movement. A pen flashlight on a drawing of the foxhole positions. The NVA moving out in several directions at once.
FRANCIS: Oh shit me I wish I was back in Memphis now, oooh baby this is gonna be a motherfucker! Chris says nothing. Suddenly off to their right, about 80 yards, a BLUE FIZZLE of light erupts.
CHRIS: Trip flares! . Rodriguez's hole. Rat-tat-tat-tat, rat-tat-tat. Machine gun, outgoing, followed by a sharp explosion. A ROCKET!
VOICE: ( crying )
RHAH: ( a fierce whisper ) Taylor! Francis!
CHRIS: Over here! Rhah jumps into their hole with them, out of breath.
RHAH: ( gets his breath ) Okay, here it is - one, we got gooks in the fuckin' Oh shit! Dat's it, dat's it .
FRANCIS: Oh shit! Dat's it, dat's it .
RHAH: They got through Alpha Company! Anything behind you don't identify itself, blow it away. Two - air strike's coming in. They gonna lay snake and nape right on the perimeter so stay tight in your holes and don't leave 'em. FLARES now shoot up over the perimeter. Reds, greens, yellows, squeaking as they float doen on their parachute hinges throughout the ensuing battle. The perimeter is illuminated at spotty intervals - sometimes arctic bright, sometimes inexplainably dark til new flares shoot up. Chris, Francis, Rhah all look up at the light, and hug their holes even tighter, feeling naked in the light. Flares cut both . they're probing us, they gonna go up and down this line all night trying to get through. Stay cool . I'll be back . Runs out of the foxhole. Chris suddenly reacting to a noise out front, gripping Francis and pointing to the sound. A BODY is thrashing towards them, about twenty-five yards, not yet visible but a little awkward and lungy in it's movement, as if desperate. Francis, tense, is about to pop his grenade when Chris grabs him.
CHRIS: Hold it!
FRANCIS: Come on man!
CHRIS: A POP! - then a fizzle of BLUE LIGHT as the Figure hits their trip flare - revealing itself to be large, with no helmet, and gasping, terrified of the trip flare.
TERRIFIED SOLDIER: DON'T SHOOT! DON'T SHOOT! It's the ambush! In here, man! Hurry. The SOLDIER now runs in like a fullback going down for the tackle, sprawling into the hole, knocking Chris and Francis down beneath him. He is sweating, terrified, a white boy with an unrecognizable, filthy face, no rifle, no helmet, his fatigues torn all over.
CHRIS: It's the ambush! In here, man! Hurry. The SOLDIER now runs in like a fullback going down for the tackle, sprawling into the hole, knocking Chris and Francis down beneath him. He is sweating, terrified, a white boy with an unrecognizable, filthy face, no rifle, no helmet, his fatigues torn all over.
TERRIFIED SOLDIER: Water! Water! Chris gives him his canteen, his shoulder and neck hurting from the collision. The Soldier sucks down the canteen.
FRANCIS: ( points ) Back there. The Soldier struggling out of the foxhole.
TERRIFIED SOLDIER: You guys get outta here! They're right on my ass and they ain't stoppin' for shit! He tears off, leaving Francis in a state of incipient panic. He looks at Chris.
FRANCIS: Taylor, let's di-di man! Chris adjusting position, facing the front, anger in his voice.
CHRIS: You go. Francis hesitates, stays.
MAJOR: ( to RTO 1 ) Get me Bravo!
RTO 2: Charlie Company reports hand to hand on the perimeter sir. Three holes are down. They need help!
MAJOR: ( looks at his watch, to his XO ) Okay move two squads from Alpha down there. Where's that goddamn air strike, you bet your ass if we were the First Cav they'd be here now.
RTO 1: ( handing him the transmitter ) Bravo Six sir.
MASTER SERGEANT: Hey you boys! Which Company you . A sudden burst of FIRE cuts the Sergeant down in his tracks and the Figures fly by. Soldiers in the immediate area spot them.
SOLDIER #3: SOLDIER #4 THE BUNKER! A burst of fire. One of the RUNNING FIGURES goes down. An Explosion engulfs him.
SAPPERS!: SOLDIER #4 THE BUNKER! A burst of fire. One of the RUNNING FIGURES goes down. An Explosion engulfs him.
SOLDIER #4: THE BUNKER! A burst of fire. One of the RUNNING FIGURES goes down. An Explosion engulfs him.
THE BUNKER!: A burst of fire. One of the RUNNING FIGURES goes down. An Explosion engulfs him.
RTO 3: EXT. PERIMETER #3 BATTALION CP - NIGHT The Bunker EXPLODES with a deafening roar.
SIR!!: EXT. PERIMETER #3 BATTALION CP - NIGHT The Bunker EXPLODES with a deafening roar.
CHRIS: Oh no!
CHRIS: SHAPES moving in the trees. Chris blows his claymore handles. One explosion on top of the other out front. Then return fire. Flashes from a muzzle, rak-a-tak, rak-a-tak, rak-a-tak, the heavier sound of an AK-47. Chris opening up with his 16. Then being blown down by a grenade explosion at the edge of the foxhole. Then nothing. A pause. Chris' ears ringing, slightly concussed. Suddenly from down the perimeter there is the sound of a faulty LOUDSPEAKER crackling out from the jungle. A pidgen English, the words mauled, then a snatch of patriotic North Vietnamese music, played from a scratchy old record. Chris uneasy, looking at Francis who looks terrified. The SOUND now of a whistle. Two hoots, then a sharp third. Then yelling. Chris grabbing Francis' arm, pointing. There is a VOICE directly out to the front of them - muttering something in Vietnamese, no more than 20 yards away but unseen. It's like hearing a casual conversation from another room, then the sounds of several bodies moving in separate directions - encompassing the foxhole.
FRANCIS: ( joining in the frenzy )
CHRIS: ( charging off into the jungle )
BUNNY: Come on MOTHERFUCKERS, COME ON!!! Junior, huddled in the hole with him, speechless and terrified, looks at him with huge eyes. The guy is nuts. An incoming grenade explosion shakes the hole.
JUNIOR: Fuck this shit! I ain't dyin' in no white man's war! Ise didi-ing this motherfuckah! Junior freaks out, throws his rifle down and hobbles out of the hole on his damaged feet at an incredible speed.
BUNNY: ( yelling after him ) Get back here you gutless shit . A SHAPE suddenly out of nowhere, looms up fast behind Bunny, running at him. Junior, insane now with fear, runs smack into a tree, knocked senseless and reeling to the ground. Bunny turning back too late. The crazy drug-high Shape is yelling something like:
NVA SOLDIER: And jumps right into the hole blasting Bunny point-blank in the Bunny struggling to consciousness at the bottom of the hole. THUCK! A boot in the gaping hole where his chest was. Bunny, his eyes uncomprehending. A muzzle is jammed into his mouth, breaking his teeth with an ugly sound. Another yell from the NVA trooper. A flash of orange red light. Bunny's face blown to Junior, dizzy from the blow to his head, looks up. A yellow flare somewhere out there and a SHADOW above him digging a bayonet into his belly with a grunt. A long oozing sigh of belly gas. An explosion. The Shadow with the bayonet staggering blind without eyes, holding his brains with his hands. Barnes throws open the empty LAAW rocket casing he has just fired off and charges forward with a yell, cutting down another NVA in Bunny's old foxhole. Jumping into the hole, the bottom of which is a liquid pit of guts, blood, ooze. Another Enemy running in on him. A short burst of fire. Barnes hit. Firing into each other. Barnes draggin him down into the pit with him, grappling alongside the corpse of Bunny. Barnes uses an entrenching tool to finish him off.
ACE: Negative contact. Can't raise Barnes, Two Bravo, Two Charlie, nothin'!
WOLFE: Get me Six! Nervously aiming his rifle as a man comes running towards them, It's Doc! Doc plops down, out of breath, drained, bleeding all over his They're coming through all over! I can't . I can't do .
ACE: It's Doc! Doc plops down, out of breath, drained, bleeding all over his They're coming through all over! I can't . I can't do .
DOC: They're coming through all over! I can't . I can't do .
WOLFE: Where's Barnes!
DOC: I think he's dead . it's awful, they're all dying. Wolfe is stunned, Barnes his last crutch against the chaos. Ace handing him the handset.
ACE: CAPTAIN HARRIS' VOICE Yeah! Send traffic or clear this goddamn net!
WOLFE: We've been overrun Captain, we're pulling back. EXT. PERIMETER #3 - COMPANY CP - NIGHT At the Company CP, things are just as bad. A Radioman is sprawled over a smashed radio. Captain Harris is in a bunker working the radios himself, as his Radiomen fire at yelling, running FIGURES scurrying all over the inner perimeter.
HARRIS: ( furious voice ) Bravo Two, Six! Goddamit where the hell you plannin' to pull back to! They're all over the perimeter. Be advised Lieutenant, you WILL hold in place and you will FIGHT and that means YOU, Lieutenant. Out!
ACE: You're an asshole Lieutenant, you know that. As he abandons his radio, grabs up his 16 and moves to an adjacent position. Doc, a quiet man up to now, is treating a wounded Parker who is now hit by bullets and thrashes wildly and jerks to a stop. He is obviously dead but Doc goes on trying to finish the bandage. Suddenly he goes beserk, grabs a 16, starts firing and yelling.
RTO #5: Captain, Third Battalion Armoured's on its way with tracks 'bout 2 kliks west!
HARRIS: ( ignores it, into radio ) Snakebite leader, Ripper Bravo Six, we're gonna need you soonest be advised I've got zips in the wire down here, over!
PILOT'S VOICE: ( distorted high frequency ) Roger your last Bravo Six, Snakebite lead we can't run it any closer. We're hot to trot and packing snape and nape but we're bingo fuel. It's your call, Six actual, Over. Harris looks around. The decision made.
HARRIS: Snakebite leader, Bravo Six, for the record, it's my call. Dump everything you got left ON MY POS. I say again, I want all you're holding INSIDE the perimeter. It's a lovely war. Bravo Six Actual and Pilot's reaction. Very calm. A Farmboy twang.
PILOT'S VOICE: Roger your last Bravo Six. We copy it's your call. Get em in their holes down there. Hang tough, Bravo Six we are coming cocked for treetops. Whiskey to Echo . Snakebite Two, this is lead. Last pass on zero niner. Watch my smoke to target, expend all remaining. Follow my trace . The transmission drops out. Harris now looking up into the darkened skies. The planes in no way evident - but they're there. And they're coming.
INTERCUT: Chris bellies into the area, see Barnes, recognizes him, amazed. An ENEMY fires, taking Barnes high in the left thigh. A patch of skin blowing off. Barnes rigidly goes down on his left knee like a wounded horse. Holds there, staring into the Enemy, waiting for the coup de grace. A series of SHOUTS and the Enemy staggers dead as: Chris lays out a curtain of fire. A GRENADE goes off near him, blowing off his helmet. Dazed, Chris rushes forward firing from the hip - sucked into Barnes' suicidal vacuum. He cuts down an Enemy as: Barnes, given a new lease, limps angrily forward and tackles a wounded Enemy trying to crawl away, terrified at the sight of Barnes coming after him. Barnes lets out a vivid scream. And beats the soldier mercilessly, half the stock of his M-16 flying apart broken. Chris swivels alert on his knees. A pause. No more enemy. Turns to Barnes, his back to Chris still beating at the dead Barnes swivels instinctively off the corpse and for a petrifying moment Chris sees: A maddened scar of a face, lips specked with foam. The EYES - refracted in a red-green flare overhead - the pupils distorted into angry red points. For Chris it is no doubt the most frightening single image he has seen in his life. It will be in his nightmares forever. The essence of evil: wrath, obsession, anger, fear, hatred, permanence - he is paralyzed. Barnes smashes him full across the face with the broken stock of his M-16. Not even conciously, for at this point, his mind has gone over the edge and the entire world is his enemy. American or Vietnamese, it makes no difference as he strikes Chris harder and harder. Chris struggles, moans, his teeth and nose cracked. Barnes emits another chilling yell an springs like a humpback up on his good right leg, the left bent - set to deliver the killing blow, the mangled rifle pulled to its highest arc.
CHRIS: Barnes swivels instinctively off the corpse and for a petrifying moment Chris sees: A maddened scar of a face, lips specked with foam. The EYES - refracted in a red-green flare overhead - the pupils distorted into angry red points. For Chris it is no doubt the most frightening single image he has seen in his life. It will be in his nightmares forever. The essence of evil: wrath, obsession, anger, fear, hatred, permanence - he is paralyzed. Barnes smashes him full across the face with the broken stock of his M-16. Not even conciously, for at this point, his mind has gone over the edge and the entire world is his enemy. American or Vietnamese, it makes no difference as he strikes Chris harder and harder. Chris struggles, moans, his teeth and nose cracked. Barnes emits another chilling yell an springs like a humpback up on his good right leg, the left bent - set to deliver the killing blow, the mangled rifle pulled to its highest arc.
FADE OUT: EXT. PERIMETER #3 - CHRIS' JUNGLE - DAWN FADE BACK IN. Vague sunlight. Blurry. Chris fluttering his eyes. A sharp MOVEMENT in the bush. His eyes fight their way SOFT EYES are watching him from behind foliage. A soft, furry head, alert, rigidly still. Chris fights his way up to his elbow, in pain, looking at the eyes. The head turns and in one fluid move, bolts. Gone. Like the wind. A deer. A big brown deer. Or was it? Chris will never be quite sure. But whatever it was, it was surely a sign of grace - the grace of Elias. This he knows as he feels himself for the first time alive. And in pain. His left hand torn and bleeding, shrapnel in his side, cuts on his face, dried blood caking him. Looking around his garden of eden. A messy jungle floor. Cordite fumes. Burned bush and trees. Torn sandbags. Dead NVA. Bird songs somewhere in the distance. It is the very crack of dawn, a pink- red sun casting long oblique light patterns through the trees. A holy light. Chris pushes himself to his feet, feels his weight and the pain. He walks. In the near distance, towards the LZ area, there's the sound of Armored Personnel carriers grinding, men moving, calling out in Americanese. But Chris is alone here. He fishes up an AK-47 from a dead NVA. Checks it, a weapon. Walks on.
BARNES: Get me a Medic will ya. Go on . Chris doesn't move. Barnes looks at him again, reading the intention that has crossed Chris' mind. An expression of surprise crosses his face, then amazement, almost shock.
MONSTER MAN: ( to Dog ) Bozo! Get back here! His eyes passing on Chris like so much meat.
O'NEILL: Fuck yeah. They all left me, bunch of fuckin' Man, you gonna get yoself a silver star.
O'NEILL: Fuck the silver star. You got any booze?
RHAH: ( to the powder ) Yeah, that's good shit .
RADIO OPERATOR: ( into radio, exhausted ) - 37 U.S. KIA, 122 wounded and still counting. Estimate 500 Victor Charlie KIA, 22 wounded and still counting. Over.
FRANCIS: Hey Taylor, you okay man?
CHRIS: Yeah. How 'bout you?
FRANCIS: Jes' fine man, jes fine! Ain't never felt better! Both of us two timers man, we're out. See you at the hospital man, we gonna get high-high yessir . The Medic points to the chopper.
MEDIC: ( to Chris ) That's your ride man, you ready?
CHRIS: ( tries a smile ) You bet. Chris starts towards it, the Medic assisting him.
HARRIS: You got Second Platoon Sergeant.
O'NEILL: ( reflexively ) Yes sir - And as Harris moves away, O'Neill is left thinking. Finally there is a certain frustration to his actions; he has taken such great pains to stay alive that the tuition he pays is precisely to stay in this Jungle. Inevitably his time will come - one way or another. His eyes now follow the MEDIVAC CHOPPER upwards, whatever is left of his shrunken soul yearning to go with it.
RHAH: Defiance. Pride. Dig me, I'm Rhah - and there isn't nobody like me in the world.
