POINT BREAK: James Cameron
BAAAAAAMMM!: fires a burst into the ceiling. BRRAAMM!!
BINOCULARS: Bingo. We're on. Let's go. Where's the big college quarterback?! Are you with us,
LADY PIGNOSE: Son of a bitch! Halt. FBI!
UTAH: Halt. FBI!
BINOCULARS: This far, Utah! You're this far from being the most overqualified guy Burger King ever had. Get me?!
UTAH: Yes sir. Sir?
BINOCULARS: Johnny gestures to the car.
UTAH: I did stop the perpetrators.
DRIVER: Anywhere? You don't care?
HARP: You know less than nothing. If you even knew that you knew nothing, at least that would be something, but you don't.
UTAH: Yes, sir.
HARP: Eating solid breakfasts, Utah?
UTAH: All the food groups? Avoiding sugar? Caffeine? I see to it that my people maintain cardiovascular fitness. We stay off hard liquor, I take the skin off chicken.
HARP: All the food groups? Avoiding sugar? Caffeine? I see to it that my people maintain cardiovascular fitness. We stay off hard liquor, I take the skin off chicken.
UTAH: ( poker face ) I take the skin off chicken.
HARP: This is us. Bank Robbery. And you're in the bank-robbery capital of the world
UTAH: 1322 last year in LA county. Up 26 percent from the year before.
HARP: That's right. And we nailed over a thousand of them. We did it by crunching data. Good crime-scene work, good lab work, good data-base analysis. Nobody had to tackle a car once. You getting the signal, special agent?
UTAH: Zero distortion, sir.
UTAH: I love these things.
HARP: You're a real blue-flame special, aren't you, Utah? I don't know why they sent you to LA. Must be an asshole shortage.
UTAH: Not so far.
UNDERWATER: A blue field with a pulsing network of rippling lines. VOOM! A figure rockets down INTO FRAME in a curtain of bubbles. A gawky AGENT, in less than stylish FBI trunks, flails around blindfolded looking for bricks at the bottom of a pool.
COREY: Angelo, we need a bigger tape.
PAPPAS: Just read the goddamn number.
COREY: Still a 46. Maybe we can cinch it down, wear a girdle
PAPPAS: Screw you and this holistic fitness crap! At least my arms don't flap in the wind.
BIG SHOULDERS: Okay, Pappas, let's put on the blindfold. Wanna see you retrieve at least two bricks from the bottom.
PAPPAS: I've been in the field 33 years, fired my piece 23 times in the line of duty, and I got no idea what a blind man fetching bricks has gotta do with being a Special Agent!
PAPPAS: Added to which indignity, I got three months left to retirement and they saddle me with some blue-flamer fresh out of Quantico for a partner. Some quarterback punk, Johnny Unitas or something.
UTAH: The shit they pull, huh?
COREY: Here he comes. Hold up a fish, he'll take it right outta your hand.
COREY: Hey Shamu, this is your guy.
PAPPAS: Pappas. Angelo Pappas.
UTAH: Punk. Quarterback Punk.
PAPPAS: ( grinning ) Welcome to Sea World, kid.
VOICE: The little hand says.
REAGAN: . let's rock and roll.
REAGAN: Use a gun, go to heaven.
REAGAN: EVERYBODY FREEZE!! That's right. ALL TELLERS step back from the counter! Hands on heads! MOVE!!
REAGAN: Everybody else on the floor! Do it! On the floor, let's go.
NIXON: SUCK LINOLEUM, BITCH!! You got
REAGAN: Just stay cool. Everybody stay cool. Heads down. Eyes down. The money's insured
REAGAN: it's not worth dying for. Another 45 seconds of your time. That's all. Then Whoa, Tricky
UTAH: Good move.
PAPPAS: Yeah, they control the room well. Stick strictly to the cash drawers.
UTAH: They don't go for the vault?
PAPPAS: Never go for the vault. They never get greedy.
UTAH: Smart. You burn time in the vault.
PAPPAS: Reagan usually drives. Stolen switch car, they leave it running at the curb, looks parked from a distance. When they run, they dump the vehicle and vanish. And I mean
UTAH: Surgical. Look at them separate the dye packs. Dick and Ronny know their jobs.
PAPPAS: The Ex-Presidents are the best I've seen, kid.
MUNOZ: Anytime you two are finished jerking off watching MTV I need to get a look at that tape.
COLE: ( sloppy grin ) Hey, Pappas, you tell the kid your theory on the Presidents?
PAPPAS: Just take the tape, Cole.
MUNOZ: Hang ten, Pappas, like totally I gotta tell ya, the department loves it.
UTAH: What's he talking about, Angelo?
HARP: They found the drop car up on Mulholland. I want you two to go work it.
PAPPAS: What? Now I'm working the drop car? Who's handling the scene here?
HARP: Cole and Munoz. I'm uh. letting them run with the ball for a while.
PAPPAS: Cole and Munoz? I been on this case for two years.
HARP: ( zeroing in on That's the point, isn't it?
PAPPAS: Yeah, I get it. Time to play let's dick the old guys, huh, Harp?
HARP: Supervising Special Agent, Harp. Now I want you to go work the drop car, okay, Angelo? Okay?
PAPPAS: Sure. No problem. How about your office? Your office need vacuuming? We could do that too.
PAPPAS: Excuse me.
PAPPAS: Cute huh? They love to fuck with
PAPPAS: Don't tell me, let me guess. The switch-car was stolen this morning. They vacuumed and 409'd the interior, did the windows, emptied the ashtrays.
HALSEY: Yeah, the usual drill.
UTAH: Could've taken their gloves off before setting that card. Laser it for prints. Maybe held it to his teeth check the edges for saliva. Today was a scorcher. This Chevy doesn't have air conditioning.
HALSEY: Sweat secretions in the seatbacks?
PAPPAS: You through, Mr. Wizard? Let me know if you find Jimmy Hoffa under the seat while you're at it. Hell, it's only 7:30. The night's still young. you can solve this case and start on another one.
UTAH: Well, what're your ideas on these Forget about it, kid. They're ghosts. Let the goddamn yuppie Mormon affirmative action assholes handle it. See I'm almost 55. so I must be senile, right? They better get me out before I start pissing myself in public. Drooling. It would look bad for the Bureau, So you're gonna coast to retirement, when you could nail these guys and go out with come dignity.
PAPPAS: Forget about it, kid. They're ghosts. Let the goddamn yuppie Mormon affirmative action assholes handle it. See I'm almost 55. so I must be senile, right? They better get me out before I start pissing myself in public. Drooling. It would look bad for the Bureau, So you're gonna coast to retirement, when you could nail these guys and go out with come dignity.
UTAH: So you're gonna coast to retirement, when you could nail these guys and go out with come dignity.
PAPPAS: You watch your fucking mouth! Mr. Hoover himself pinned the Seal of Honor right here!
UTAH: Yeah. That was thirty years ago L.A.'s changed a lot since then. The air got dirty and the sex got So you want to nail the Ex- Presidents? Be a big hero?
PAPPAS: Yeah. That was thirty years ago L.A.'s changed a lot since then. The air got dirty and the sex got So you want to nail the Ex- Presidents? Be a big hero?
UTAH: Yeah. What's your theory?
PAPPAS: The fucking punks are surfers.
PAPPAS: I'm tellin' ya, kid, it's in our face. Lookit the tan on this guy.
UTAH: Oh well he must be a surfer.
PAPPAS: Shutup, you might learn somethin' you're not careful. So last year Nixon scuffs a counter going over. There was a soil sample. Non- specific mud traces of asphalt, oils, blah, blah. sand and. carnuba wax. So I became a wax expert. There's 80 some uses for this stuff, something like five hundred products.
UTAH: Candle wax. Car wax. Mustache wax? Could be anything. Guy's waxing his mustache at the beach. Gets sand in it. Wipes it off with a shoe. Shoe scuffs the counter.
PAPPAS: The lab made three possible matches, this was one of 'em.
UTAH: ( reading ) Sex wax? You're not into kinky shit, are you Angelo?
PAPPAS: Surfers use it on their boards. They rub sand into it for traction.
UTAH: Thanks for the tip. I needed this
PAPPAS: Now lookit the dates on the robberies. This is strictly a summer job for these guys.
UTAH: . Four months. June to October. Mmmm.same the year before.
PAPPAS: Another month and we don't see 'em again 'til next summer.
UTAH: They're traveling the rest of the year on the money, going where the waves are.
PAPPAS: ( to one and all ) The Ex-Presidents rip off banks to finance their endless summer!
UTAH: I think he needs a vacation.
UTAH: I don't.
PAPPAS: ( reading the label ) "Best for your stick", huh? This might not be enough. I better get
UTAH: I'm twenty-five.
PAPPAS: Johnny, it's the only way.
UTAH: Why can't I just walk around with this thing under my arm and act stoned? Ask a few questions.
PAPPAS: Look. Look at them out there.
PAPPAS: They're like some kind of tribe. Got their own language. You can't just walk up to these guys. You've got to get out there. Learn some moves. Get into their head. Pick up the speech.
UTAH: Angelo, this stuff is for little rubber people who don't shave yet.
PAPPAS: It's all balance, right? And coordination. How hard can it be?
PAPPAS: I think you gotta hit them straight Got it. Outta the way, you dick!
UTAH: ( out of breath ) Got it. Outta the way, you dick!
LOCAL: Outta the way, you dick!
LOCAL 2: Move it, kook!
RAZORHEAD: You dinged my board, kook!!
RAZORHEAD: Politeness counts, ASSHOLE!
UTAH: Goddamn son-of-a
PAPPAS: Kid, maybe this ain't your sport.
UTAH: Fuck it.
OCEAN BREAK: He lies on his board, rising and dropping with the swell. So far so good. He spots a wave. A fluid gray-green house rising, forever rising. Utah turns. Paddles. The house catching him, lifting him high upon its roof. Utah is committed. He gets to his feet as his board slices along the lip. He peers over the falls, down the face holy shit! it looks like Niagara. He loses balance and spirals airborne, falling bullseye into the IMPACT ZONE. The entire force of the wave crashing upon him, plunging him down into the
WOMAN SURFER: ( yelling above the Swim, goddammit! Come on! Move
WOMAN: Look crazy son of a bitch! You wanna commit suicide, you do it someplace else!
WOMAN: Look at this pig-board piece-a-shit. It's still got the price tag on it, for Chrissakes. What'd you do, buy it yesterday? You've got no business out here whatsoever.
UTAH: Well, I saw you and
WOMAN: Yeah, you saw me and you figured that if a mere girl can do it, a big strong stud like you shouldn't have any problem. Right?! Well you figured wrong, dork!
UTAH: Hey! Uh, how do I get back in?
WOMAN: ( without turning ) Carefully, tough guy. Very ( yelling now ) My name's Johnny Utah!
UTAH: ( yelling now ) My name's Johnny Utah!
WOMAN: Who cares!
UTAH: I'm telling you so when you look back on this moment, you can think. there was this guy named Utah and he was pretty much a dork but maybe not such a bad person and I let him drown in conditions he had no business being in whatsoever. when I could have easily helped him.
UTAH: ( over his shoulder, Wait! Jesus Christ! ( swimming back to You're fucking crazy, you know that? You go in there you're gonna eat it on the rocks. Here, follow me.
WOMAN: Wait! Jesus Christ! You're fucking crazy, you know that? You go in there you're gonna eat it on the rocks. Here, follow me.
WOMAN: Go when I say. But stay down. Just lie on the board. Alright, let's
PAPPAS: This is your surfer contact? Female. Blond hair. Green eyes. 5'6". 119 lbs?
MISS DEER: Hmm, not bad, Utah.
UTAH: Tyler Ann Endicott. Born 11-27-64.
UTAH: ( reading from the . Exhibition of speed. Indecent exposure inside moving vehicle.
MISS DEER: Hot, very hot.
UTAH: Felony arrest! "See adjoining
PAPPAS: This is great. She ties some guy up. Nude. Leaves the scene and fails to return for 24 hours. No Gotta avoid the rope tricks, Johnny. What else they got on her? I still haven't found anything I can really use. I gotta find an approach, a way in here we go. Both parents deceased. Plane crash. San Diego, '84. Mmmm. Yeah,
MISS DEER: Gotta avoid the rope tricks, Johnny. What else they got on her? I still haven't found anything I can really use. I gotta find an approach, a way in here we go. Both parents deceased. Plane crash. San Diego, '84. Mmmm. Yeah,
UTAH: What else they got on her? I still haven't found anything I can really use. I gotta find an approach, a way in here we go. Both parents deceased. Plane crash. San Diego, '84. Mmmm. Yeah,
TYLER: Next! Oh, no.
TYLER: What do you want?
UTAH: Shrimp and fries.
TYLER: I mean, what do you want? What are you doing hanging around here.
UTAH: ( very serious ) I need you to teach me.
TYLER: Gimme a break. One shrimp and fries to go! Anything to drink?
UTAH: I'm serious.
TYLER: I can see that. But forget it. Stick to tennis, or whatever you're good at. Miniature golf. Here, your number's 37.
UTAH: Well, I'm just gonna go back out there till I catch on to it or break my neck.
TYLER: What is it? You all of a sudden got this bug you had to go surfing? This is a line, right?
UTAH: No, no. See, all my life I've done things for other people. In high school I played football because my old man expected me to. Then my parents always figured I'd go to law school, so I did. Football scholarship. Graduated Phi Beta This gonna take long?
TYLER: This gonna take long?
UTAH: Wait, so I'm a big hero to my folks, But two years ago they got killed in a car wreck and I just suddenly realized all my goals had been their goals. And I hadn't been living my own life. So I wanted something for myself. Something that maybe didn't make any sense. You know what I
UTAH: I came out here from Ohio a month ago. Never saw the ocean before. I didn't think it would effect me so much. Like I'm drawn to it, or something. I want to do what you do. It's the truth.
TYLER: Tomorrow, 6 AM. Here. If you're a minute late I'm gone. And Stud. I didn't take you to raise. I can show you a few things but after that you're on your own. That'll be four fifty.
UTAH: Keep the change, Teach.
TYLER: Stop here. Do you agree to do exactly what I say when I say it?
UTAH: CUT TO:
TYLER: Do it again.
TYLER: ( to the other I'm not with him.
TYLER: It's closing out completely. Let's call it.
UTAH: Who's that?
TYLER: The modern savage. Guy's even crazier than you, Johnny Utah.
BODHI: Hey Tyler!
ROACH: The fuck you doin' man?! You fuckin' crazy?
BODHI: Chill, brah. You know who this is? Johnny Utah. Ohio State, all- Rose Bowl three years ago. Right?
ROACH: Johnny fuckin' Utah! Fuckin'-A! Yeah, I remember that game, man. You were on-fire. They could not stop your ass.
GROMMET: Radical! Head-butt, dude!!
GROMMET: They do. Their foreheads CRACK together. They stumble backwards in giddy euphoria. Nathaniel laughs like Pee Wee Herman.
BODHI: Something happened. You got nuked in the last quarter.
UTAH: Yeah, my knee got folded about 90 degrees the wrong way.
BODHI: And that's why you never went pro?
UTAH: Two years of surgery. I missed my window. Limped through law school Mmm. A lawyer, huh? Too bad. But at least you're surfing now. So your life's not over yet, right?
BODHI: Mmm. A lawyer, huh? Too bad. But at least you're surfing now. So your life's not over yet, right?
UTAH: Not yet.
COLE: Like totally rad stick, dude.
SEVERAL AGENTS: Gnarly, man. hang ten. cowabunga. surf patrol. rip it
HARP: How was the beach?
UTAH: Surf conditions okay?
HARP: Surf conditions okay?
UTAH: A little mushy.
HARP: A little mushy! You think the taxpayers would like it, Utah, if they knew they were paying a federal agent to surf and pick up girls?
UTAH: The correct term is babes, sir. Uh, this type of undercover operation is entirely dependent on picking up the idiom of the speech. Otherwise penetration is not possible, sir. Of the social infrastructure, I
HARP: The correct term is babes, sir. Uh, this type of undercover operation is entirely dependent on picking up the idiom of the speech. Otherwise penetration is not possible, sir. Of the social infrastructure, I
UTAH: The correct term is babes, sir. Uh, this type of undercover operation is entirely dependent on picking up the idiom of the speech. Otherwise penetration is not possible, sir. Of the social infrastructure, I
HARP: Where is Pappas?
HARP: Special Agent Utah, this is not some job flippin' burgers at the drive-in. Yes, the surfboard bothers me. Yes, your approach to this case bothers me. And yes, you bother me. You two have produced squat in the last two weeks, during which time the Ex- Presidents have robbed two more banks!! Do you have anything even remotely interesting to tell me?
UTAH: Caught my first tube this morning.
PAPPAS: What, you couldn't have just left the thing in your car?
UTAH: It sticks out, so I can't lock it. Look, Angelo, you think I joined the FBI to learn to surf? This was your lame-o idea in the first place. You gotta back me up on this.
PAPPAS: Johnny, all I can say is we better come up with something real soon.
PAPPAS: Yeah, yeah, I remember, last year. Guy got his jaw broken for it.
MISS DEER: One four centimeter strand. Color brown. Oily. Slight wave.
PAPPAS: Hell, what're we waiting for, let's go pick the guy up.
UTAH: Angelo, pay attention. There's gonna be a test afterward. Lab is showing traces of toxins. PCBs. Heavy elements. selenium, titanium and arsenic.
PAPPAS: Guy's the Toxic Avenger. The beaches are always being closed because of waste spills, right? And surfers are territorial. They stick mostly to certain breaks. If we can get some hair samples, and get a match to a certain beach, we'd know which break the Ex-Presidents surf. You buyin' this?
UTAH: The beaches are always being closed because of waste spills, right? And surfers are territorial. They stick mostly to certain breaks. If we can get some hair samples, and get a match to a certain beach, we'd know which break the Ex-Presidents surf. You buyin' this?
PAPPAS: No. But let's do it, anyway. It's gonna bug the shit out of Harp.
PAPPAS: When you two are done makin' out, I need to talk to you.
PAPPAS: I just want to know if you surf here a lot.
PAPPAS: Not exactly, dudes.
UTAH: Whoa, brah, easy now. Don't move! Got some huge sucker crawling into Got it! Uuuughhh.
UTAH: Saved your butt, bro. Close one.
HALSEY: Naw, this isn't it.
PAPPAS: He moved.
HALSEY: PCBs, selenium, titanium, arsenic. The percentages look right. Here's a match.
UTAH: Latigo Beach.
PAPPAS: Surf's up, ace.
UTAH: Big zippo so far. How about you?
WARCHILD: This the guy?
BUNKER: ( good natured ) Okay, so this is where you tell me all about how locals rule and yuppie insects like me shouldn't be surfing your break and all that, right?
UTAH: ( good natured ) Okay, so this is where you tell me all about how locals rule and yuppie insects like me shouldn't be surfing your break and all that, right?
BUNKER: Waste of time.
TONE: Waste of time.
WARCHILD: We're just going to fuck you up.
UTAH: As they lunge, Utah grabs his board and swings it in a whistling roundhouse. Its edge slams Warchild in the gut and folds him double. The bad news is. Warchild gets an arm around it and brings a pile-driver hammer-punch down. The board splits into two pieces. Utah drops his end as the others close. A flurry of punches and kicks, most of which he blocks. But he's lost the offensive. Bunker takes him to his knees with a vicious karate-style TIGHT ON Utah's towel, talking with Pappas' voice.
PAPPAS: Johnny? You there?
ARCHBOLD: The dude can fight!
BODHI: Back off! Now!! Just let it go!
BUNKER: Stay outta this, Bodhi!
BODHI: He's with me. Now back off. Seriously.Just do it! You alright Warchild?
WARCHILD: ( holding his bleeding Fuck you. What's your name?
UTAH: What's your name?
BUNKER: Well, listen, Bunker. I'm actually kinda glad you found me.
UTAH: Well, listen, Bunker. I'm actually kinda glad you found me.
BUNKER: Yeah? Why?
BODHI: Whoa! Whoa! Hold it, ladies. Give it a rest. Let's go. Do me a favor, Johnny, just keep Uh, you guys seen a kid, maybe 10, 12, running with a car stereo? Stole the fucking CD too, you believe it?
BODHI: ( under his breath ) Do me a favor, Johnny, just keep ( out of breath ) Uh, you guys seen a kid, maybe 10, 12, running with a car stereo? Stole the fucking CD too, you believe it?
PAPPAS: ( out of breath ) Uh, you guys seen a kid, maybe 10, 12, running with a car stereo? Stole the fucking CD too, you believe it?
UTAH: No, but there are four guys back there you might check out.
PAPPAS: Thanks, buddy.
UTAH: Friends of yours, huh?
BODHI: The one you decked is Bunker Wiess. The big one is his brother, Warchild. The other two always hang. They think they're some kinda death squad around here.
UTAH: What's their program?
BODHI: They're punks. Nazis. Their brains are wired wrong. They hurt surfing because they give nothing back, and they have no respect for the sea. They just want to get radical. It's mindless aggression. They'll never get it, the spiritual side of it.
UTAH: You always talk like this? You're not gonna start chanting or anything are you?
BODHI: ( laughing ) ( beat ) So I was up the beach. I saw it going down. you didn't hesitate. they never backed you up an inch. That's rare in this world.
UTAH: Thanks for stepping in.
BODHI: De nada. Gonna be some people at my house tonight. Maybe you can make it.
UTAH: Gonna be some people at my house tonight. Maybe you can make it.
UTAH: Come with Tyler. She knows.
BODHI: Come with Tyler. She knows.
PAPPAS: Ten seconds you're out of sight.
UTAH: You're losin' them. That's right. Two-denver-four-sam- niner-five-niner. Late seventies
PAPPAS: Look, if you're gonna go leavin' your piece and your shield in the car, you can damn well stay in sight. Okay?
UTAH: Okay, Dad.
UTAH: . Felony B and E, three months in juvey. Better. Felony assault. Postgraduate work at Chino. Excellent. I'm lovin' it. What about the brother? Great! Another model citizen. These guys really fit the profile.
PAPPAS: Remember, all bank robbers are losers, but not all losers are bank These are the guys. I can feel it. I say we lay it on Harp.
UTAH: These are the guys. I can feel it. I say we lay it on Harp.
MUNOZ: This is bullshit. This is a bullshit lead. This is totally bullshit. Harp must be fucking desperate if he's listening to you two flakes.
UTAH: See you bright and early, guys.
PAPPAS: Cold pizza? It's great for
UTAH: When did Harp say they'd have the He's pushing it through first thing. You better get some sleep tonight, it could be an interesting morning.
PAPPAS: He's pushing it through first thing. You better get some sleep tonight, it could be an interesting morning.
UTAH: Nice place.
TYLER: He rents it for the summer. Bodhi always gets some slick place and throws it open to every surf burnout around. Most a these guys can't keep a job. When the swell comes, they're gone, they have to ride.
GROMMET: Do your worst, man!
UTAH: Don't you gamble?
BODHI: Only make bets I can't afford to lose. Only way to be 100%
UTAH: Who's the girl?
TYLER: Catch of the day.
UTAH: Oh, oh. That sounds personal.
TYLER: People are expendable to Bodhi.
UTAH: Meaning you were expendable.
TYLER: ( shrugs ) We went out for about five minutes. which is four minutes longer than most of them. But you can't hold it against him, he's. Sure, he's "the Bodhisattva".
UTAH: Sure, he's "the Bodhisattva".
TYLER: ( she chuckles ) Yeah, he thinks he's evolved to a higher plane of existence, or ( thoughtful ) Maybe he has. You've seen him surf. that frenzy. It seems like anger. It's not. It's the energy of lovemaking. The sea is the woman in his life. She's his only true
UTAH: All she does is beat the shit out of
NATHANIEL: ( beer soaked speech ) . Okay, so you're in the face, it's twenty-five feet straight down, your balls are about this big. ( like he's holding up And the whole thing's moving, right, roaring like you're stuck to the front of a freight train. There ain't nothin' like it, man. The ultimate rush. Forget about sex, it doesn't even come close.
ROACH: You lose it right then, you're history. The fish'll be pickin' you outta the coral.
NATHANIEL: ( matter of factly ) Thanks, brah.
ROACH: See, it's all dynamic, it's all in motion. You can't just stop and walk on in to the beach if you don't like the way things are going, y' know what I mean? You gotta ride it out man, all the way.
GROMMET: You ride the monsters, you gotta know you're ridin' a line between life and death. There ain't no So what's the biggest? Waimea?
UTAH: So what's the biggest? Waimea?
GROMMET: Shit, yeah! I remember that day. gnarly fuckin' ass! Was your The set was northwest. Jacking up like a fucking mountain of gray I made that one mistake you pray you'll never make
ROACH: The set was northwest. Jacking up like a fucking mountain of gray I made that one mistake you pray you'll never make
BODHI: I made that one mistake you pray you'll never make
NATHANIEL: You shoulda fuckin' seen it. it was like he fell for-ever. Then the curl crashes down and he's gooone
GROMMET: held down in the washing machine, man. it was severe, we couldn't see nothin' thought it was all over for sure Not tragic to die doing what you love. You want the ultimate thrill, you gotta be willing to pay the ultimate price.
BODHI: Not tragic to die doing what you love. You want the ultimate thrill, you gotta be willing to pay the ultimate price.
NATHANIEL: Fuckin' A.
GROMMET: ( draining a Corona ) Hell, I ain't gonna see 30.
UTAH: ( to the surfers, Uh. I need another beer.
TYLER: Bunch of goddamn adrenaline junkies. I hope you're not buying into this banzai-bullshit like the rest of Bodhi's moonies.
UTAH: What are you talking about?
TYLER: I've seen that kamikaze look, Johnny. You've got it. And Bodhi can smell it a mile away. He'll take you to the edge. and past it. Hey, Bodhi.
BODHI: Johnny has his own demons, don't you, Johnny? Feel it? Gentlemen, it's time.
BODHI: Feel it? Gentlemen, it's time.
BODHI: Gentlemen, it's time.
UTAH: What's goin' on?
TYLER: Swell's here, Johnny. Bodhi always
BODHI: Let's go, Utah. Time for a little stealth mission.
ROACH: ( a voice in the Gaping barrels! Way overhead, man!
UTAH: I can barely do this in broad Come on. At least no one's gonna see how bad you are.
TYLER: Come on. At least no one's gonna see how bad you are.
UTAH: I gotta be fucking crazy.
BODHI: Yeah, but are you crazy enough?
BODHI: Football's a man-made game. You keep score with numbers. But in this, there's no field, no rules, no opponent. Just you and the wave.
UTAH: I know that part. Tell me something I can use, here.
BODHI: I've watched you once or twice. You surf like it's some kind of street fight. You jerk along from moment to moment, fighting everything that comes at you. Always trying to win.
UTAH: A flaw I'm working on.
BODHI: The only way to win out here is to surrender. You have to feel what the wave is doing, accept its energy, get in sync. Just feel it all moving in the blackness. you don't need to see.
UTAH: Yeah, right, vision is highly over-
BODHI: This one's got your name on it,
BODHI: Let's go.
UTAH: Shit, I'm gonna die. I'm gonna die
TYLER: You had enough?
UTAH: Yeah. I just want to sit out here for a minute.
TYLER: Look at you.
UTAH: Well, usually you have this sort of intense scowl of concentration, like you're doing this for a school project or something. I don't know, like something's driving you. See, it's gone. If I didn't know better I'd say you looked almost I. I don't know. I can't describe what I'm feeling.
TYLER: Well, usually you have this sort of intense scowl of concentration, like you're doing this for a school project or something. I don't know, like something's driving you. See, it's gone. If I didn't know better I'd say you looked almost I. I don't know. I can't describe what I'm feeling.
UTAH: I. I don't know. I can't describe what I'm feeling.
TYLER: ( smiling ) You don't have to.
UTAH: Goosebumps. Come here. Those are cold.
TYLER: Those are cold.
UTAH: Warm them up.
UTAH: Holy shit.
UTAH: ( whispering ) You guys need any help?
COLE: ( not amused ) You're late.
UTAH: ( grinning ) Right here, partner.
PAPPAS: Good of you to join us, hotshot. Watch it. I told you, not on the hairs, goddammit. I'm ready to rock, Angelo. Where you want me?
UTAH: I'm ready to rock, Angelo. Where you want me?
PAPPAS: Cole and Munoz are going in the back door. Babbit is backing me. So I want you at the side window by the hedge. You're strictly backup, got Got it.
UTAH: Got it.
PAPPAS: Awright. Get into position. I'm
PAPPAS: Here Scooby! Where are you boy? Here Scooby!! You furball piece of
FIBERGLASS: Yeah? What?
PAPPAS: Have you seen a little dog? Kind of a cockapoo lookin' thing. About this big.
FIBERGLASS: UTAH blinks at what he sees. HIS POV, in the little mirror. Like a silent pantomime under the ROAR OF THE MOWER, he sees Bunker and Warchild come flying into the room. They are hyper and manic. Eyes wild. Bunker leaps clear over the bed. Grabs a COMBAT SHOTGUN from the closet. Throws it to Warchild. Tone is oblivious. Bunker thumps him in the chest and Tone leaps up like an overwound toy, gaping "What the fuck?!" we read his lips Bunker grabs a STEYR ASSAULT RIFLE, white knuckled, while Tone fumbles around and comes up with a .45 COLT AUTO.
UTAH: ( into his headset ) Babbit. Get Angelo out of there. They're pulling out a fucking arsenal! Babbit, you copy? Cole? Don't let him pull his badge!
MUNOZ: Utah, say again. What? I can't hear jack shit over this lawnmower. Christ.
BUNKER: Something's goin' down, man. This ain't right.
TONE: ( freaked ) No, man, it's nothin'. It's Will you shut the fuck up! Check the windows. Do it!!
BUNKER: Will you shut the fuck up! Check the windows. Do it!!
PAPPAS: You sure he isn't out back? You mind if I go take a look?
FIBERGLASS: Look, I don't know anything about your dog, okay
PAPPAS: Well is there anyone else here that might have seen him?
FIBERGLASS: There's nobody else here.
WARCHILD: There's two guys by the back door. Ducked down.
TONE: Oh, shit. Shit!! We're fucked, That fat fuck comes through the door I'm gonna pump him up. Swear to Christ, man, I'm gonna blow the dude FBI, gorgeous. Now let's take a look around
BUNKER: That fat fuck comes through the door I'm gonna pump him up. Swear to Christ, man, I'm gonna blow the dude FBI, gorgeous. Now let's take a look around
PAPPAS: FBI, gorgeous. Now let's take a look around
UTAH: FBI!! DROP IT!
BLAM!: Shatters the shower door behind him. The BLACK-HAIRED GIRL screams. Johnny flinches, FIRING RAPIDLY. Wild. Bunker drops, hit. Warchild lets go with the 12 gauge. KABOOM! Takes a chunk like a shark bite out of the doorframe by Johnny's head. Deafening in the confined space. Johnny flattens himself behind the doorframe. Tone just splits. Down the hall like a greyhound. PAPPAS is on one knee, his piece drawn fast, holding Fiberglass in a neck-lock with one massive arm. Bunker, wild-eyed and bleeding, is on his knees in the bathroom doorway. He raises the Steyr. Mistake. Angelo FIRES. 30 years in the field tends to show. Three rounds. Chest. Chest. Head. Bunker is off the planet. MUNOZ KICKS THE BACKDOOR IN like they do in the movies. He and Cole charge into the rancid kitchen. Badass FBI JOHNNY, hotwired and hyperventilating, pops out for a shot around the doorframe. He gets a glimpse of Warchild's back disappearing into the hallway. FIRES. His shot is wasted, punching plaster. Suddenly a pink freight-train hits him. He forgot about the girl in the shower. Naked except for her tattoos, she bodyslams him face-first into the wall. As he tries to turn she grabs his hair in both hands and hammers his head into the medicine-cabinet CRASH shattering the mirror. Then she knees him in the balls as he ricochets off the wall into her. She drives her elbow into his back as he drops. "FREIGHT TRAIN" lands knee-first on his gun hand, and viciously kicks the pistol away with one bloody foot. It skitters under the bed. She's cut up from flying glass. Demon-eyed and wired, her body lithe and muscular under white skin. She sprints across the bedroom, leaving Utah slumped, heaving for IN THE HALLWAY, Tone is hidden behind a doorway. White-knuckling the forty-five. A wild-eyed kid with a big gun and not the slightest idea how to use it. He hears footsteps POUNDING behind him and spins. It's Warchild, running with the shot-gun.
WARCHILD: Move it, man. Let's get the fuck out of here!
PAPPAS: Speak into the microphone.
PAPPAS: It's always been lasers and paper targets until today, right?
PAPPAS: No difference, Utah. Just a little more to clean up. It's alright. You did good today.
PAPPAS: Oh shit.
DIETZ: You know what this is?! Two keys uncut crystal meth!
UTAH: What the hell's your problem?
DIETZ: You think I like this haircut? My wife wants me to stay at Ramada I been working on these guys for THREE MONTHS! Finally finally I get dickwad in there wantin' to play wheel of fortune so I can find out their supplier!
HARP: This is agent Dietz, DEA. He's got a record of your suspect's movements every day for the last three months.
DIETZ: ( stabbing the air All I wanna know is how are these guys supposed to be holding up Tarzana City National on August 2nd, when they are in Fort-fucking- Lauderdale August 2ND!!!
HARP: Not an easy thing to do, is it, Aw shit.
UTAH: Aw shit.
PAPPAS: Nice tattoo, Dietz.
BODHI: C'mon brah, there's a righteous swell. Let's go! Let's go!
TYLER: He does this.
TYLER: Come on, Utah. Everybody's out there catchin' all the good rides.
TYLER: What's wrong Johnny? You're like a different person. I am a different person, Tyler. Hey. You okay? You look like you saw a ghost.
UTAH: I am a different person, Tyler. Hey. You okay? You look like you saw a ghost.
TYLER: Hey. You okay? You look like you saw a ghost.
PAPPAS: Forget about it, kid, They're
UTAH: I. I gotta go.
TYLER: Johnny. what's going on? I don't get it. did I do something?
UTAH: No. I'm sorry. I have to go. I'll, uh. I'll call you later. I'm sorry.
PAPPAS: Hey, babe. Get on over here so the big dog can teach ya how to bark.
UTAH: Woof, woof.
PAPPAS: Johnny! Uh, you, uh. should call first, you know? Hey, where the hell were you all day? You gotta at least call in or something. You Angelo, we gotta talk.
UTAH: Angelo, we gotta talk.
PAPPAS: Listen, uh. if you're okay, can it wait till tomorrow morning, kid,
MISS DEER: Angie, they didn't have the kind of wine you like but I got. oh, hi
UTAH: . so I started tailing him.
PAPPAS: This Zen master surfer.
UTAH: Bodhi, yeah. I'm on him all day, right. He goes here, he goes there, he goes to Tower Records and buys come CDs, he has lunch at Patrick's Road House. . he goes into the Assured Trust Savings and Loan.
PAPPAS: Did he rob it?
UTAH: Cute. He was inside for about 20 minutes. The other guy, Roach, waited in the truck. They were scoping it out, right?!
UTAH: Yeah, or cashing a check.
UTAH: Wait, wait. Then these guys go back to their beach house and box up all their shit. Load it in Bodhi's truck and take it to a public storage unit. You see? Summer's almost over. They're splitting. They're gonna pick up a little traveling money tomorrow. The next day at the outside latest. I got a Last time you got a feeling I had to kill a man, which I always hate because it looks bad on the report.
PAPPAS: Last time you got a feeling I had to kill a man, which I always hate because it looks bad on the report.
UTAH: Angelo. I'm right this time. We can still win this one.
PAPPAS: Alright, look. banks are closed. Nothing's gonna go down tonight, right? So we'll be on these guys like white on rice. first thing tomorrow morning. Okay? Tomorrow.
UTAH: Woof, woof.
PAPPAS: They're on their way to Maui.
UTAH: No way. Not yet. Come on.
PAPPAS: Jesus Christ, kid! The banks don't open 'till nine.
UTAH: I say we call it in. Get some backup. But you gotta do it. Harp won't listen to me.
PAPPAS: Sure. No problem. I'll just call up and tell him his favorite agent saw this one surfer moon another surfer yesterday and it looked real suspicious. Shit, he'll probably call out the National Guard.
UTAH: I say we don't call it in. Under no circumstance are we to call this in.
PAPPAS: Look, we handle it ourselves, for right now, okay? We cover the bank, whatever. You and me. That way if nothing happens, or more accurately, when nothing happens. I don't get my tits any further into the wringer than they already are.
PAPPAS: Time for lunch.
UTAH: Angelo, it's eleven thirty.
PAPPAS: That place up the street has meatball sandwiches. Get me two.
UTAH: Here, yours is the one that looks like a road kill. Enjoy.
UTAH: Here's your lemonade. Did you see that T-Bird pull up?
PAPPAS: ( without looking ) Damn, I could eat the ass out of an elephant. I shoulda had you get me three a these. What T-Bird? Jesus Christ!! It's them!
PAPPAS: Jesus Christ!! It's them!
UTAH: FBI!! Freeze!! Right now!
PAPPAS: Come on, kid, get in the car!
UTAH: The hell are they?!
PAPPAS: They took a left at the next light!
UTAH: You sure?!
UTAH: I got 'em. I see 'em. I'm on it, I'm on it.
PAPPAS: You even watching the road?
LBJ: Where are they, man? I don't see 'em. We lose 'em?
PAPPAS: Nice fuckin' work, hotshot. Emergency sanitization! Here we go!
REAGAN: Emergency sanitization! Here we go!
NIXON: Let's go! Move it, Ronny!
WOMAN: Get the fuck out of this house! What the fuck do you think you're
UTAH: Not now. Not now!
REAGAN: You want me, there's only one way.
PAPPAS: The Dispatcher talks into his headset, glances up at Pappas, shakes his head.
UTAH: The Dispatcher talks into his headset, glances up at Pappas, shakes his head.
PAPPAS: Go home, kid. Get the hell outta here. Get some sleep. You look like shit. They get anything even resembles your guy, I'm on your beeper. Here. You like feta?
UTAH: Feta. My favorite.
PAPPAS: Utah stops. Looks back at the man.
PAPPAS: All I wanna know is one thing, why didn't you just take the shot?
UTAH: I don't know.
UTAH: Betadyne doesn't hurt.
TYLER: Betadyne doesn't hurt.
UTAH: You're kneeling on my hand.
TYLER: So what'd the other guy look like?
UTAH: Never saw him, was your basic hit and run.
TYLER: But you look like you been in a train wreck, how'd he just drive
TYLER: Johnny, what is it with you? You have that look again, it's like you're about to tell me something and then you don't. or you can't. What's going on?
TYLER: What? What do you want to tell me?
UTAH: I'm glad you pulled me out of the water that day.
TYLER: A lawyer!? You lied to me!
TYLER: Look, Tyler, I can
TYLER: Jesus Christ, Johnny you've been using me! Your jacket's on the floor in the bathroom this goddamn thing's half out of the pocket. Oh God, it's all part of some case, isn't it?
UTAH: Tyler, put the gun down.
TYLER: You tell me the fucking truth Johnny. did your parents really die in a car crash? DID THEY?!
UTAH: No. They live in Columbus Ohio.
UTAH: I work bank robbery. Guys I'm after are surfers. I needed you, at first, but not
TYLER: Fuck you, Johnny Utah. Fuck you!! Don't you have a soul? Goddamn you to hell! Tyler! Wait!!
UTAH: Tyler! Wait!!
UTAH: Tyler I. look, I fucked up, okay. I know I fucked up. I wanted to tell you, but I couldn't I was afraid you'd leave. good guess, Fuck, why can't I ever say what I really mean? I lied to you. I'm an asshole. but I need you, Tyler. I want you to know that I've never known anyone like you before in my life. and I. I hope you change your mind.
UTAH: Tyler! Wait, I Howdy brah.
BODHI: Howdy brah.
BODHI: C'mon, get your gear on, we're
UTAH: What going on, Bodhi? Hey, what happened? Ya cut yourself shaving?
BODHI: ( spying Johnny's cut Hey, what happened? Ya cut yourself shaving?
UTAH: I don't think I wanna surf right
BODHI: Naw, this is different, Johnny. This is something totally different. you're gonna love this.
BODHI: C'mon, let's go, let's go. Time's wastin', brah.
BODHI: Life's sure got a sick sense of humor, don't you think so Johnny?
UTAH: How you figure?
BODHI: ( slight laugh ) News, last night. those guys, the Ex-Presidents. they robbed my bank yesterday. And I was just there the day before, cashing a check. See. look. Assured Trust. same place.
BODHI: I was picking up some bucks cause we're leaving town. Bizarre, huh? If I'd waited a day I'd been right in the middle of it. Kinda sorry I missed it. I'd liked to've seen
UTAH: Takes guts to rob a bank. All that adrenalin pumping, waving loaded guns, taking out the guards, getting everybody on the floor, never knowin' who's gonna burst in. . wondering what it's like to take a bullet. Must be some ride.
BODHI: Banks are insured, brah. Long as nobody gets shot, it's really a victimless crime. Just gotta scare 'em a little, would be my guess. Now if I was gonna rob a bank, with all those guys wearin' body armor these days, know what I'd carry?
BODHI: .454 Casull. Most powerful handgun on the planet. Muzzle velocity of 2000 feet per second. Twice the kinetic energy of a .44 Magnum.
UTAH: One shot stopping.
BODHI: ( laughs ) 'One shot stopping'. good, very good. I like you, Johnny. I like you because you'll sacrifice anything to win. I respect that. It elevates you a little above the drones who have learned compromise. Here, hold it. Check out the
BODHI: ( cheerfully ) Whoa. Careful. You got the muzzle pointing right at me, brah.
UTAH: He hands the smoking weapon back to him. As if to say "two can play this game". Bodhi stands challenged. Each snared in the other's power. Bodhi takes the weapon back, casually. Slips it under the Utah's gaze travels beyond the windshield. Where tentacles of brand new morning light vein the sky.
BODHI: It's a special day, Johnny U. A very special day.
BODHI: Ever done this before?
UTAH: Pure adrenalin, right?! The ultimate rush. Other guys snort for it, jab a vein for it all you gotta do is jump.
BODHI: Pure adrenalin, right?! The ultimate rush. Other guys snort for it, jab a vein for it all you gotta do is jump.
UTAH: Sure, it's a blast, but listen, I sorta screwed up my knee yesterday
BODHI: Yeah, I noticed you limping. But don't worry about it, brah. Don't worry at all. We're not gonna land on land!
UTAH: Oh, well, that's fine then. I feel so much better.
BODHI: It's a little ceremony we always have at the end of summer. One last So, who. uh, who packed my chute?
UTAH: So, who. uh, who packed my chute?
BODHI: I did. What's the matter? Don't trust me?
UTAH: You gotta earn trust.
BODHI: Then we'll earn it together. Here, take mine.
ROACH: Hey. you don't want Bodhi's, man. His pack-jobs suck. they only open half the time. Take Grommet's, man.
GROMMET: Whoa, unfair, dude!
UTAH: We gonna jump or jerk off?
BODHI: My man!
BODHI: I'll take that as a yes.
ROACH: Whip it out dudes! Cheap sex with the cosmos!
BODHI: Ten thousand feet. Let's do it. Come on Johnny. Get in here!
BODHI: Come on Johnny. Get in here!
BODHI: Relax, brah. I got you, I got you.
GROMMET: Righteous-ass speedstar, dudes!
BODHI: You diggin' this?
UTAH: Great! GREAT!
BODHI: Purty-thirty and we're meat waffles, folks. See ya downtown!
BODHI: You gonna pull?
UTAH: After you, Alfonse. I insist!
BODHI: Don't screw around man, pull it!
UTAH: You do it. you first!
BODHI: One thousand feet. Pull the goddamn You first!
UTAH: You first!
BODHI: Bodhi reaches out suddenly and pulls Utah's ripcord He waves goodbye as Johnny's canopy deploys. Utah is jerked upward. He feels his weight hanging brutally in the harness. Johnny looks down. Impossibly close to the ground. Bodhi's canopy BURSTS OUT, an explosion of color. Below him is the shimmering mirror of a LARGE RESERVOIR. Two seconds later the bright yellow canopy meets its reflection and goes slack. An explosion of white water marks Bodhi's impact. LOW ANGLE AT WATER LEVEL as Utah hits. IN SLOW MOTION a glorious wall of backlit spray shouts Molten glass falling back in the bright desert dawn. Utah surfaces, sputtering, and shucks out of the harness. He floats like a jellyfish, gasping for breath.
UTAH: Jesus Christ. I gotta be losin' it.
BODHI: Ya see. I told you Johnny U was gonna be just fine! C'mere. There's something you need to see.
BODHI: C'mere. There's something you need to see.
UTAH: What's this?
BODHI: Insurance policy. Now this is going to sting a bit, but it's for your own growth, brah. Press play.
BODHI: She's a wild one, isn't she. Special Agent Utah?
UTAH: You're a fucking dead man
BODHI: ( gasping for breath ) Whoa, whoa!! Think it through! I'm the only one knows where they are. Just let me talk for a second.
UTAH: She'll be fine, Rosie won't do anything. At least not as long as I meet him at a certain place and time, about. let's see. . six hours from now.
BODHI: She'll be fine, Rosie won't do anything. At least not as long as I meet him at a certain place and time, about. let's see. . six hours from now.
UTAH: You call him. right now. and tell him to let her go.
BODHI: Sorry, can't do it, brah. He's on the road. And where they're going there's no phones. Damn, I hate this Johnny, I really do. I hate violence. See, that's why I need Rosie. I could never make this thing work, myself. No way I could hold a knife to Tyler's throat, man! She was my woman, once. We shared time in this world. But Rosie, he's kind of a. mechanism. Once you set him in motion, he won't stop. That's his gift, a kind of. blankness. Noon comes, straight up, he'll gut her like a pig and try not to get any on his shoes. Nothing I can do, unless I get there.
BODHI: So that makes us partners, doesn't it? Because now we both have the same goal. to get me where I need to go. Right?
UTAH: We're wasting time.
BODHI: See! That's what I like about you, man! You're just sharp as a razor
BODHI: Get the plane down to Santa Monica and top up the tanks. Let's go. Let's saddle up!
KACHACK!: It's basic dog psychology, brah. If you scare them, get them pissing down their leg, they submit. you control them. If you project weakness, you draw aggression. that's how people get hurt.
BODHI: It's basic dog psychology, brah. If you scare them, get them pissing down their leg, they submit. you control them. If you project weakness, you draw aggression. that's how people get hurt.
BODHI: Fear causes hesitation, and hesitation will cause your worst fears to come true. You project strength to avoid conflict.
ROACH: Peace through superior firepower,
BODHI: Here, you need this. You can't be comin' through that door with your dick in your hands, right?
UTAH: I can't do this.
BODHI: Sure you can! You may even like it. it's a killer rush. You'll see. Hey, don't I show you things, Johnny U?
UTAH: Bodhi, this is your wake up call, man I. am. an. Eff. Bee. Eye. Agent!!
BODHI: Wild, ain't it?! See, we exist on a higher plane, you and I. We make our own rules. Why be a servant of the law Johnny U. when you can be it's master?
GROMMET: Fuckin' A!
BODHI: Ninety seconds, man, door to door. A small price to pay for someone who loves you. She does you know. It's not her style to fall so hard. I don't think she did with me.
BODHI: Sorry, Johnny. Guess you don't get to be president.
BODHI: Rock and roll!
BODHI: Everybody freeze!! Don't move!!
GROMMET: Don't fucking do it, man! All Tellers back away from the counter! Hands on your heads! RIGHT NOW!! That's right. You know the drill.
UTAH: On the floor, asshole! What's your problem?! I blow your fucking kneecaps out, you'll be on the
UTAH: Can we just get the goddamn money and get out of here?!
MISS JENNINGS: He he he has the keys. Mr. Whatta say, Mr. Duggan? Wanna give her the keys or do I pick through the blood and chunks for them? Do whatever they say, Terry.
DUGGAN: Do whatever they say, Terry.
UTAH: You're blowing it, man! You're breaking your own rules. pulling too much time!
UTAH: Federal agent! Undercover!
BLAM!!!: behind a check-writing island. ROACH/NIXON LEAPS THE COUNTER and lands behind the guard. The guard's shoulder explodes as Roach's 12 gauge detonates. He pitches onto his face, screaming and holding the wreckage of his upper arm. Grommet/LBJ is coming over the counter behind Roach as the off-duty cop spins and fires. BLAM! BLAM! Roach takes it in the chest. Staggers back, firing into the floor. Trips and drops his shotgun. Grommet clutches his throat as blood streams over his IN SLOW MOTION Reagan's face rises above the counter. The mask is askew. In order to see, Bodhi pulls it off. The Casull comes up in a slow, deliberate arc as THE COP turns, terrified now, whipping his gun around, nightmarishly slow as BODHI COCKS THE CASULL in dream-time and KABOOOOM!!! The world's most powerful handgun proves its claim at 2000 feet per second. A gout of hamburger explodes out of the cop's chest. He is lifted off his feet. Hits and slides across the floor leaving a two-foot wide red smear. Echoes slap the walls. Then all is still. Plaintive whimpering and moaning. The air is blue with smoke. Johnny is trying to catch his breath. He rips his shirt open to see two deep indentations in the Second Chance vest. Flattened .38 slugs caught in the Kevlar mesh. But no blood. Bodhi drops over the counter near Utah. The two men look at each other. Bodhi's eyes seem lost. He stares around at the carnage he has wrought, the bloody wreckage of his ego game. His expression changes to something new truly crazed now. We feel that the madness which has been held in check so long has been let off its leash.
BODHI: Don't anybody fucking move!
GROMMET: Oh no, oh my god, oh god. it's all comin' out man, gotta stop it. it's all gonna come out. do
ROACH: ( freaking to Bodhi ) We gotta bug out, man! We're eatin' it bad on this one. Let's go! Goodbye, Johnny.
BODHI: Goodbye, Johnny.
MUNOZ: if you so desire, an attorney will be provided for you free of cost. Do you understand these rights I have explained to you?
PAPPAS: He knows his goddamn rights! Jesus, kid. I knew you were getting too close to these guys. Gimme the goddamn key to these things, Cole. Christ!
HARP: Don't take those off. Just leave them on! Your partner's an accessory to murder. You realize
HARP: Three men dead. One of them a cop. How's that sit in your gut, Utah?
UTAH: ( cold and scary ) Take your hand off my shoulder right
PAPPAS: Look, Harp. Don't turn him over to the uniforms like some punk. Let me ride him in.
HARP: Yeah, sure. Why not? You two screw-ups deserve each other. That's why I put you together in the first place. Christ Pappas, you're as bad as he is. talk about the blind leading the blind
PAPPAS: Harp, let me tell you something. I was an agent in this bureau when your mommy was still wiping your shinny pink ass, and you know one thing I learned in all those years that you still haven't?
HARP: What that?
PAPPAS: Respect your elders. Let's go kid.
UTAH: I know where they're going.
PAPPAS: Figured you did. Only problem is. we can't arrest them or shoot them.
UTAH: Only problem is. we can't arrest them or shoot them.
UTAH: I'm not armed.
BODHI: But you're not alone.
UTAH: Good guess. There's a gun on you right now.
UTAH: Where's Roach?
BODHI: Around somewhere. Listen, I'm in kind of a hurry, Johnny U. What can I do for you?
UTAH: You gotta tell me where she is.
BODHI: And let my policy expire? Sorry.
UTAH: Look, Bodhi man. People are dead. The ride is over.
BODHI: I say when it's over!
UTAH: The guy you killed was an off duty cop! If you get out of here they'll nail you wherever you land. They have a new thing called radar. Maybe you've heard of it.
UTAH: I know you man, when they fall on you, you won't back down. They'll have to burn your ass to the ground. And I can't stop them. I'm the last person they're ready to listen to right now. Thanks to you.
UTAH: Shit may or may not happen.
UTAH: Look, you got a death wish, you want to ride to glory. fine! But don't take her with you, man. I'm begging you. tell me where she is. Then I walk away. We've earned that much trust, haven't we? Back in the hotseat, campadre.
BODHI: ( to the pilot ) Back in the hotseat, campadre.
NOW!: BEHIND THE TRUCKS, Pappas senses something. His head snaps around. Roach is behind him with the 12 gauge. He FIRES. Pappas hurls his weight sideways, as the buckshot punches into the truck fender. Some of it catches Pappas in the hip. He hits the ground hard and whips up the .38 BAM!
UTAH: Angelo! Don't fire!
PAPPAS: Kid, get outta the way!!
UTAH: Utah is blocking Bodhi with his body. Bodhi's fingers are poised, frozen, a few inches from the He snaps the pistol up, aimed at the sky. Pappas stands panting. Enraged and frustrated. Pain searing his leg. Everything is tense and electrified. BOOM!! Pappas' chest EXPLODES with a spray of blood! BEHIND HIM, ROACH is lying on one elbow in a pool of He cocks another round into the chamber and fires again.
NOOO!!: Utah is blocking Bodhi with his body. Bodhi's fingers are poised, frozen, a few inches from the He snaps the pistol up, aimed at the sky. Pappas stands panting. Enraged and frustrated. Pain searing his leg. Everything is tense and electrified. BOOM!! Pappas' chest EXPLODES with a spray of blood! BEHIND HIM, ROACH is lying on one elbow in a pool of He cocks another round into the chamber and fires again.
PAPPAS: He snaps the pistol up, aimed at the sky. Pappas stands panting. Enraged and frustrated. Pain searing his leg. Everything is tense and electrified. BOOM!! Pappas' chest EXPLODES with a spray of blood! BEHIND HIM, ROACH is lying on one elbow in a pool of He cocks another round into the chamber and fires again.
GODDAMMIT!!: He snaps the pistol up, aimed at the sky. Pappas stands panting. Enraged and frustrated. Pain searing his leg. Everything is tense and electrified. BOOM!! Pappas' chest EXPLODES with a spray of blood! BEHIND HIM, ROACH is lying on one elbow in a pool of He cocks another round into the chamber and fires again.
BOOM!: Angelo drops to his knees, holding his ruined body like he's hugging himself. Johnny lunges toward him, his face distorted with shock.
UTAH: Angelo's eyes meet his for a moment. In his dilated pupils is the great question. Then he slumps forward and lies very still. The breath leaves his body and doesn't go back in. Johnny moves toward his friend in a daze. Drops to one knee beside him. Roach aims the shotgun at him, coughing blood. Utah doesn't notice. Or is beyond caring. Bodhi holds his hand up in a gesture like a benediction. Roach's finger relaxes on the trigger. Utah puts his hand on Angelo's white crewcut hair. He hears the scraping of steel on asphalt behind him as Bodhi picks up the other twelve gauge. Roach is working himself to his knees. His breath is sucking through a bloody hole in his chest as well as the customary breathing orifices. Bodhi crosses to him and helps him up. He covers Utah with the shot gun as he half-carries Roach to the plane. The pilot is white with shock. He'd run if he could remember how.
NNNOOOOOO!!!: Angelo's eyes meet his for a moment. In his dilated pupils is the great question. Then he slumps forward and lies very still. The breath leaves his body and doesn't go back in. Johnny moves toward his friend in a daze. Drops to one knee beside him. Roach aims the shotgun at him, coughing blood. Utah doesn't notice. Or is beyond caring. Bodhi holds his hand up in a gesture like a benediction. Roach's finger relaxes on the trigger. Utah puts his hand on Angelo's white crewcut hair. He hears the scraping of steel on asphalt behind him as Bodhi picks up the other twelve gauge. Roach is working himself to his knees. His breath is sucking through a bloody hole in his chest as well as the customary breathing orifices. Bodhi crosses to him and helps him up. He covers Utah with the shot gun as he half-carries Roach to the plane. The pilot is white with shock. He'd run if he could remember how.
PILOT: I ain't flyin' you guys to San Phillipe man, forget it. Not now
BODHI: Thanks for telling the nice FBI agent where we're going. Get in the fucking plane.
ROACH: Get in the fucking plane.
BODHI: We're gonna ride this out, all the way, Johnny. You and me. Let's go.
PILOT: Look, we been in Mexico the last half hour. can I quit mowing the lawn here or what? I'm getting more brush in the wheels than I usually like, you know what I'm saying?!
BODHI: Yeah, get some height. Take her up to eight thousand on this heading.
ROACH: We're gonna pop up on their screens.
BODHI: Doesn't matter now. We're almost there, man. Here, let me help you get your gear on.
ROACH: I'm cold.
BODHI: You're gonna be fine. Just fine. Johnny, toss me that money bag will you. Easy does it. You're cold because all the blood is running out of your body, Roach. You're going to be dead soon. I hope it was worth it.
UTAH: You're cold because all the blood is running out of your body, Roach. You're going to be dead soon. I hope it was worth it.
BODHI: Hey, Johnny's just trying to psych you man, forget it. Just keep thinking about all those senoritas nursin' you back to health. Come on, amigo, let's get you set for the
BODHI: Rosie, Rosie, this is Air Force One, do you copy, over? Copy you, Air Force One. We have a visual on you. Lookin' fine.
UTAH: Tell him to release Tyler.
BODHI: Why should I?
UTAH: What if your chute fails, Bodhi? Rescind the order. Let her off the hook, she's served her purpose. Do it, man, you owe me that much. Let me hear it before you check out.
BODHI: Rosie, listen carefully. Surgery is canceled, is that clear? Repeat it back to me.
BODHI: I know it's hard for you Johnny. You want me so bad it's like acid in your mouth. But not his time. Let's go. You lose, campadre.
BODHI: You lose, campadre.
UTAH: FUCK IT!!!
FUCK IT!!!: Utah grabs the Casull off the seat and dives out of the EXT. PLANE UTAH, WITHOUT A PARACHUTE, but carrying a very large gun, rockets downward. He presses his arms to his sides and falls head-down, building speed. Three hundred feet below him is Bodhi, freefalling in a spread-eagle position. Utah moves his feet and hands, angling toward him. Bodhi doesn't see him. Falling flat, he tops out at terminal velocity for that position. 130 mph. Utah slashes downward at 160 mph. The gap between them Utah is almost blinded by the windstream. His eyes burn. His lips are peeled back by the blasting air. Bodhi is eighty feet below him. 4000 feet to terra Utah focuses all his incredible will and concentration. He's only going to have one shot at this. Bodhi is right below him. Utah is closing like a SAM missile. He trims a little, and. WHAM! Slams into Bodhi in a mid-air tackle. Bodhi's eyes are wide with amazement as they tumble Utah has made the grab and locked his arms around Bodhi in an iron grip. He pulls the Casull's muzzle up to Bodhi's head and screams in his face.
UTAH: Pull the parachute!!
BODHI: Pretty radical, Johnny. Even for you. Why don't you pull it?
UTAH: No games, Bodhi. Pull the cord! Naw, you pull it! Go on, Johnny. Pull it. But you gotta drop the gun, first! Right?! You use your other hand what you gonna hold on with?
BODHI: Naw, you pull it! Go on, Johnny. Pull it. But you gotta drop the gun, first! Right?! You use your other hand what you gonna hold on with?
BODHI: Go on, Johnny. Pull it. But you gotta drop the gun, first! Right?! You use your other hand what you gonna hold on with?
UTAH: Pull it right now or I'll blow your fucking head off and pull it myself!
BODHI: Well that's the only way it's gonna happen, man. Do it! Come on, you want to do it. You're gonna die, Johnny. Five more seconds. Four.
UTAH: You fucking crazy!? Pull it!!
BODHI: Three seconds. two. one.
UTAH: Utah flings the Casull away and pulls the rip-cord so hard he almost loses his grip anyway. POOM! The canopy cracks Full and round and bright red. The ground roars at us. WHAP! Utah and Bodhi hit. Hard. They slide and tumble down the slope of an arroyo in a cloud of dust. Rocks and debris clatter into silence. NEARBY Roach hits the ground limp as a rag doll. He moves listlessly as his chute lines tug at him but his eyes stare without blinking right at the sun. Next to him the money satchel's contents are spilled right into the sand. Roach's lifeless hands lie limp among the bills that caper in the desert wind. UTAH AND BODHI are both completely still as the dust clears. Finally they groan and stir. Necks move, hands move, legs move. Bodhi rolls to his knees. He is cut and scraped, the blood running bright down his dust-covered Utah looks around, blinking. Surreal that he should be plopped down here in the red-hot Mexican desert. Bodhi staggers to his feet and grins at him.
SHIT!!: Utah flings the Casull away and pulls the rip-cord so hard he almost loses his grip anyway. POOM! The canopy cracks Full and round and bright red. The ground roars at us. WHAP! Utah and Bodhi hit. Hard. They slide and tumble down the slope of an arroyo in a cloud of dust. Rocks and debris clatter into silence. NEARBY Roach hits the ground limp as a rag doll. He moves listlessly as his chute lines tug at him but his eyes stare without blinking right at the sun. Next to him the money satchel's contents are spilled right into the sand. Roach's lifeless hands lie limp among the bills that caper in the desert wind. UTAH AND BODHI are both completely still as the dust clears. Finally they groan and stir. Necks move, hands move, legs move. Bodhi rolls to his knees. He is cut and scraped, the blood running bright down his dust-covered Utah looks around, blinking. Surreal that he should be plopped down here in the red-hot Mexican desert. Bodhi staggers to his feet and grins at him.
BODHI: Wild ride, huh?
UTAH: ( gasping ) Jesus Christ, Bodhi!
BODHI: That pesky knee, huh? Too bad.
BODHI: You had me worried there, for a second, Johnny U.
BARTENDER: Gonna close early today, mate, 'fore the bloody storm hits.
UTAH: Storm's already here. It's bringing me the swell.
TYLER: John, they're here.
LIEUTENANT: D'you see him, Mr. Utah?
UTAH: No. But he's here.
LIEUTENANT: Now, look, I know you used to be a federal agent up in the states and all that, but you're a citizen now, so just find him and we'll handle it from there.
UTAH: No problem. Just give me a couple minutes with him first.
1ST SURFER: Jesus Almighty, the bloody sand's
2ND SURFER: Totally closed-out. It's fuckin' death on a stick.
BODHI: And I always knew I could count on you, Agent Utah.
UTAH: I'm not FBI anymore.
BODHI: You never were.
UTAH: I asked them to give me a couple It went bad, brah. Real bad. I just felt it was time.
BODHI: It went bad, brah. Real bad. I just felt it was time.
BODHI: Time to dance with the universe. I could never handle a jail cell. You'll do this for me, won't you Johnny? Haven't I earned this
BODHI: Thanks, brah.
UTAH: He rode it all the way.
