FOR EDUCATIONAL: PURPOSES ONLY Copyright © 1990 Warner Bros.
PURPOSES ONLY: Copyright © 1990 Warner Bros.
JAAPIE: God has sent Hitler to deliver us from the English bastards who stole our country and killed our people. Heil Hitler!
ALL: Heil Hitler!
JAAPIE: We will swear a blood oath. When Hitler comes we'll rise up and kill the Verdomde Rooineks.
ALL: A blood oath! A blood oath!
JAAPIE: With your blood.
JAAPIE: We swear allegiance to Adolf Hitler. Heil Hitler!
ALL: We swear allegiance to Adolf Hitler. Heil Hitler!
JAAPIE: Death to all Englishmen in South Africa. Heil Hitler!
JAAPIE: God bless the fatherland. Heil
ALL: Heil Hitler!
JAAPIE: See what we have in store for you when Hitler comes, Rooinek.
BOY: But before he gets two steps towards the chicken he is gang-tackled and held. Jaapie picks up a sling and a Jaapie starts to swing the sling around and around. The six-year-old struggles to get free.
JAAPIE: For crimes committed against the whole Boer people. I, Jaapie Botha, the judge and Uberfuhrer, sentence you and your Rooinek kaffir chicken to death. Heil Heil Hitler!
ALL: Heil Hitler!
ALL: Heil Hitler! Heil Hitler!
BOY: Jaapie releases the stone. It flies true, catching the SQUAWKING, struggling CHICKEN flush in the chest. The flapping stops as blood soaks through feathers.
JAAPIE: Heil Hitler!
ALL: Heil Hitler!
JAAPIE: Hang him up!
BOYS: Jaapie! No!
JAAPIE: Hang him!
JAAPIE: You will pay for the deaths of our grandfathers and grandmothers, our aunts and uncles. All Rooineks will pay and you will be first. Pull!
JAAPIE: In the name of Adolf Hitler and the fatherland, I sentence you to die, Verdomde Rooinek.
BOYS: Kill him! Kill him! Kill him!
STAFF MEMBER: What's this?
PK: I came to after being unconscious for two days, the rock missing my eye by half an inch. After a week in hospital it was decided I'd be sent to my grandfather's house in the English town of Barberton, at least until passions at school cooled. Jaapie Botha was expelled; sent home to his family's farm in And so the first recorded South African casualty of Hitler's insanity was not a Boer, nor a Rooinek, but a tatter-feathered, half-bald kaffir chicken.
ST. JOHN: Very evocative, yes. Particularly the image of the chicken. Good choice there.
ST. JOHN: Any ideology that needs to attack the thing that least threatens it is an ideology that will not outlive its own generation. Inclusion, gentlemen, not exclusion, is the key to survival. Something our new government should take heed of, eh?
ST. JOHN: Next week we have Mr. Levy who will enlighten us on.
MORRIE: Sport and wager in Imperial Rome, Very apt, Mr. Levy. We look forward to the experience. All right.
ST. JOHN: ( facetious ) Very apt, Mr. Levy. We look forward to the experience. ( pause ) All right.
ST. JOHN: PK approaches.
ST. JOHN: Thank you, sir.
PK: Thank you, sir.
ST. JOHN: I've received notice from the
PK: Yes, sir.
ST. JOHN: A word of caution. Contemporary to most of these fellows means the seventeenth century. Try and keep your theme, um, classical, if you know what I mean.
PK: Yes sir. I will. Will the scholarship be decided at the same time, sir?
ST. JOHN: Money's a different matter. Different committee.
PK: Very good, sir.
ST. JOHN: And P.K.
ST. JOHN: Good luck tonight.
PK: Thank you, sir.
PK: How we doing?
MORRIE: You win and your dream comes true. You lose, we're back to bread and butter sandwiches till term's end. What'd he want?
PK: My appointement before the Oxford committee came through.
MORRIE: A snap.
PK: For a brain like you, maybe.
MORRIE: Come on, you'll read one of your pieces, they'll be begging you to But will they pay for the Well let's bloody hope so. It'll be a lonely time without you Morrie Levy. Is that the voice of sentimentality I hear coming from you?
PK: But will they pay for the Well let's bloody hope so. It'll be a lonely time without you Morrie Levy. Is that the voice of sentimentality I hear coming from you?
MORRIE: Well let's bloody hope so. It'll be a lonely time without you Morrie Levy. Is that the voice of sentimentality I hear coming from you?
PK: Morrie Levy. Is that the voice of sentimentality I hear coming from you?
MORRIE: Sentimentality my ass. Practicality. Where am I going to find a sure thing like you to make book on at bloody Oxford?
PK: Go on.
MORRIE: You hear Sutcliffe screwed Bartlett's sister when he stayed with them over holidays?
PK: I don't believe it.
MORRIE: I heard it from Bartlett's own lips. He's selling reservations for next holiday. A pound for one night; three pounds for four.
PK: You register?
MORRIE: For both of us. Took the whole
MORRIE: You nervous?
PK: Christ! I'm about to have a calf. This bloody Boer gets lucky, we're in the poorhouse.
MORRIE: Christ! I'm about to have a calf. This bloody Boer gets lucky, we're in the poorhouse.
MORRIE: Now remember. We're not here to exhibit our wares. We go in, we do the job, we get out. Right?
PK: Morrie and PK draw a deep breath. Together they push open the double doors. Together they stride into a floodlit, fully-packed sports arena and head down the fan-lined aisle to the raised boxing ring in the center. Schoolboys in their respective school blazers, Afrikaan and English, yell, whistle and clap. PK and Morrie, in FULL FRAME, reveal PK in a boxing robe with taped hands, and Morrie with towel and bucket.
ANNOUNCER: And at the end of six matches in all weight divisions, the score is Prince of Wales three victories, Helpmakeer three victories.
ANNOUNCER: And now for the final bout to determine which school will win the Johannesburg 1950 public school boxing team championship. In this corner, weighing 140 pounds, standing 5'8", from the Helpmakeer School with a record of 13-0 on the year, Jannie
ANNOUNCER: And in this corner, representing the Prince of Wales School, the current Johannesburg Public School welterweight champion, also with a record of 13-0 on the year, also 140 pounds, Kid P.K.
ANNOUNCER: We thank the native population for their spirited display of enthusiasm. But now, on to the main event. Fighters to center ring, please.
REFEREE: You both know the rules. No butts, no elbows, no low blows. First man to score three knock downs wins. Let's have a good clean fight. Good luck to you.
PK: First row, third from the left. Find out who she is.
MORRIE: We're in a bloody war here, in
JANNIE: Blery Rooinek. I'll kill you.
MORRIE: Get up! Get up!
MORRIE: Up! Up!
REFEREE: Okay. Fight.
MORRIE: What are you trying to do, bankrupt us? What happened?
MORRIE: Christ! If they get caught in here they're dead. What the hell's going on?
PK: I don't know.
MORRIE: Well, worry about it later. In case you haven't noticed, this Boer bastard is trying to kill You see the way he drops his left when he throws the right?
PK: You see the way he drops his left when he throws the right?
MORRIE: The BELL RINGS. PK and Morrie trade a look. Jannie comes rushing over and throws a big right. PK steps to his own right side and pops Jannie right over his dropped left hand. He looks at Morrie again.
MORRIE: Thank you, God.
MORRIE: Here you go, pal.
PK: You're the treasurer of this company. You hold it. Did you find out what I asked for?
MORRIE: Uh, listen, P.K. You know in this world there is no greater proponent of sins of the flesh than Morrie Levy. But do yourself a favor on this one. Take my advice. Pass.
PK: Thanks for the advice. The information please.
MORRIE: Do you know who her father is? Professor Daniel Marais.
PK: So? He's the Nationalist Party's resident intellectual. The man is one of the architects of this damned system of what are they calling it? apartheid? He has about as much use for a Rooinek Englishman rutting after his daughter as the Queen does for balls, pardon my French.
MORRIE: So? He's the Nationalist Party's resident intellectual. The man is one of the architects of this damned system of what are they calling it? apartheid? He has about as much use for a Rooinek Englishman rutting after his daughter as the Queen does for balls, pardon my French.
PK: What's her name and where do I find her?
MORRIE: Maria Elizabete Marais, Seniors Cottage, Room 22, Devilliers School. They don't call it 'Fortress Virgin' for nothing. You'll never get in.
PK: You going to take book on that?
MORRIE: Already have. Three-to-one says you don't.
PK: Where'd you bet?
MORRIE: I took a big position you do.
MORRIE: In case you have to bail yourself
GIRL: Those are always cold. Use this
PK: May I come in?
PK: I'm sorry to scare you.
MARIA: ( nervous ) You can't be here.
PK: I didn't know how else to meet you.
MARIA: I could be expelled.
PK: Girls don't usually come to boxing We went on a dare. Please.
MARIA: We went on a dare. Please.
PK: Did you like it?
MARIA: It was. . exciting. You were very good.
PK: ( in Afrikaans ) Thank you. I'm glad I impressed ( surprised ) You speak the Taal.
MARIA: ( surprised ) You speak the Taal.
PK: I'll speak Zulu if it'll help me see you again.
MARIA: I can't.
PK: Why not?
MARIA: I need my father's permission.
PK: Is it hard to get?
MARIA: Hard for an Afrikaaner boy. Impossible for an English one.
PK: How about your permission? Do I have that?
GIRL #1: We're having coffee upstairs. Want to come?
MARIA: I have to finish this paper.
GIRL #2: Come when you're finished. We'll be up late.
MARIA: Please go.
PK: You didn't answer my question.
MARIA: There are plenty of English girls. What makes me so important?
PK: The way I felt when I saw you.
MARIA: My father will insist on meeting I can't wait.
PK: I can't wait.
MARIA: Now please.
PK: ( in Afrikaans ) Good night, Maria Marais.
MARIA: ( in English ) Good night, PK.
PK: I don't remember telling you my And I don't remember telling you
MARIA: ( smiling ) And I don't remember telling you
MARAIS: Jan Piet Marais. My uncle. At 22 he led a kommando for three years before your people caught him and hung him.
PK: My people?
MARAIS: The English.
PK: I consider myself an African, sir.
MARAIS: As do I. As do the Zulu, the Xhosa, the Pongo, the Ndebele. We're all Africans. But all from separate tribes, ay?
PK: idea that creates our problems here in South Africa.
MARAIS: idea that creates our problems here in South Africa.
PK: idea that creates our problems here in South Africa.
MARAIS: boy, do not come from tribalism. They come from counter-tribalism. From people insisting that natural laws which have been in place and operating since God's creation, should be tampered with. Does the gazelle sleep with the lion? Does the rhino graze with the mouse? The separation of things is not coincidental. Do you think a Zulu wants to see his culture, his sense of identity, replaced by someone else's anymore than I do?
PK: wants being a Zulu to mean he is denied the same rights as everyone else has.
MARAIS: defined by the ability to live under the rule of law. Laws define rights.
PK: which the English marched as they gobbled up a quarter of the world? Justice, my boy, is only relative to who's in charge.
MARAIS: which the English marched as they gobbled up a quarter of the world? Justice, my boy, is only relative to who's in charge.
PK: is only relative to how well they dispense that justice. . with all due respect.
MARIA: Papa, would you like coffee in the library or the parlor?
MARAIS: ( pleasant ) The library, mein leib. I can't figure out if you're brave or foolish.
MARAIS: I can't figure out if you're brave or foolish.
PK: Why is that, sir?
MARAIS: You come here to ask for permission to see my daughter. Correct?
PK: Yes, sir.
MARAIS: And knowing who I am, what I stand for, do you think this sort of discussion is going to put that request in a favorable light?
PK: I thought a man of your intellectual reputation wouldn't want his daughter seeing someone who didn't Let me give you some advice then. You're right. I admire a keen mind. But intellectual reputation or not, I am first a Marais, a member of the Volk.
MARAIS: Let me give you some advice then. You're right. I admire a keen mind. But intellectual reputation or not, I am first a Marais, a member of the Volk.
PK: These ideas I picked up somewhere
MARAIS: ( joking ) No doubt from an expert on race Actually, sir, from an expert on
PK: Actually, sir, from an expert on
DOC: This I do not normally without permission do, ja? But to catch the expression. After all, it is the expression that is important. Ja? Without the expression the human being is just a lump of meat. You have some problems, I think. I am Professor Karl von Vollensteen.
PK: I'm P.K.
DOC: Such a young person with such an
DOC: The brain, P.K., has two functions. It is the best reference library ever, which is a good thing to have. Ja? But also from it comes original thought. In school you will get all filled up with the facts. Here your brain will learn where to look, how to look, how to think. And then you will have for yourself all the brains that have ever been. Doc knew everything. He had a love of learning. But his real passion was centered around two things music and cacti.
DOC: If God would choose a plant to represent Him, I think He would choose of all plants the cactus. This one plant has all the blessings He tried but failed to give man. It is true. Look. The cactus is humble but not submissive. It grows where no other plant will grow. The sun bakes its back, the wind rips it from cliffs, or drowns it in the dry desert sand. Not a complaint. In good times or bad it will still flower. It protects itself from danger.
DOC: But it harms no other plant. It
DOC: Everything fits, P.K. Nothing is unexplained. Nature is one big chain reaction. Everything depends on everything else. From the smallest to the biggest. Always in life an idea starts small like a tree.
DOC: This tree can grow so high it can touch the face of the sky. But this little vine can choke it and keep it small. Most people are like these vines. Afraid of new ideas. Afraid to let things grow.
DOC: Always listen to yourself. Follow your own idea. If you are wrong, so what? You learn something. And with learning you grow stronger. And if you are right at the beginning? An even bigger bonus.
DOC: Grammar: satisfactory. Science: satisfactory. Mathetmatics:
DOC: P.K., if there is one thing I know you to be that is a lot more than just satisfactory. Ja?
PK: But I don't want to be known as a brain.
DOC: Why not?
PK: Who do you think gets beaten up on all the time in school?
DOC: My boy, to be smart is not a sin. But to be smart and not use it, that is sin number one. And as for getting beat up on, use your brain to figure out how not to be.
DOC: Again it begins. The stupidity. Do not be frightened.
MORRIE: Look, even if the scholarship doesn't come through, my old man said he'd lend you the money.
PK: All right. All right. We'll call it the 'Levy Carpet Emporium Scholarship for Poor but Proud Christian Gentlemen.' How's Tell your father I appreciate the God, I hate people who can't be Why is that?
MORRIE: All right. All right. We'll call it the 'Levy Carpet Emporium Scholarship for Poor but Proud Christian Gentlemen.' How's Tell your father I appreciate the God, I hate people who can't be Why is that?
PK: Tell your father I appreciate the God, I hate people who can't be Why is that?
MORRIE: God, I hate people who can't be Why is that?
PK: Why is that?
MORRIE: I don't know. Personality
PK: The boys come to their destination marked by a rickety, faded sign: "GOLDMAN'S GYM." Excitement shines in PK's eyes. He bounds up the narrow flight of stairs.
MORRIE: How do they get away with this? But PK has his mind on other things. His eyes fix on an OLD MAN across the room standing by ringside.
PK: There he is.
MORRIE: Christ, he's old.
PK: And he's the best. C'mon. PK leads Morrie across the gym. PK passes an African fighter. He stops training when he sees PK. He turns to another African fighter, glancing at PK. One by one the blacks in the gym stop training to look at PK. PK and Morrie approach the rheumy Old Man yelling at the two fighters in the ring above him in a thick Polish- Jewish accent.
PK: Mr. Goldman? Solly turns to the boys. A look of bemusement comes over his face when he sees their blazers.
SOLLY: What? You boys lost?
PK: I'm the one who called you yesterday. From the Prince of Wales School?
SOLLY: Oh yeah, yeah. The champeen.
PK: ( smiling ) And who are you?
SOLLY: And who are you?
MORRIE: The champeen's manager.
SOLLY: Oy gevalt. You know you train here it's not like those nice school fights you're used to. Three knockdowns you win.
MORRIE: What does it cost for you to train For my personal attentinons, Mr. Manager? Fifty pounds a month. For one of them. . less.
SOLLY: For my personal attentinons, Mr. Manager? Fifty pounds a month. For one of them. . less.
MORRIE: Here's for six months in advance. Three hundred pounds.
SOLLY: Six months? I don't know your boy'll last six minutes.
PK: I'll last.
SOLLY: What are you staring? Punch, don't stare. C'mon. Work or you're out.
SOLLY: That your gear?
PK: Yes, sir.
SOLLY: Go change in the back. We'll see if you couldn't find a better use for all that money.
PK: Thank you, sir.
SOLLY: Why's he want to do this, a nice- looking schoolboy?
MORRIE: He wants to be welterweight champ of the world.
SOLLY: Oh sure, sure. And I'd like to be twenty-five again.
MORRIE: You like to make book on it?
SOLLY: ( joking ) You giving odds?
MORRIE: You name them.
SOLLY: You both meshugah.
SOLLY: Let's just start out nice and easy now.
SOLLY: Never I seen someone so young throw an eight-punch combination. Where did you learn such a thing?
PK: In prison, sir.
SOLLY: You trying to be a comedian and a boxer? Mr. Manager, come to my office. We'll talk terms. You, get showered, and see me after. We'll talk training.
PK: Yes, sir.
VON ZYL: I am Kommandant Von Zyl. The professor has requested you to be his visitor so you can continue your studies on piano and he can continue with his studies on cactus. This is the first
PK: Yes, sir. Kalanchoe Thrysiflora.
VON ZYL: The professor taught you this, ja? Of course to your English town he is a prisoner, a criminal. To us who respect such learning and culture, he is an honored
VON ZYL: This pass is good for any time, any day. Would you like to see him now?
PK: Yes, sir.
VON ZYL: Come. I will take you myself.
VON ZYL: We have cleared a little plot behind the cellblock for the cactus. And tomorrow we have the professor's piano moved here. There is not another instrument like it in the territory. Maybe one day the two of you can give a concert for us, hey?
PK: Yes, sir.
VON ZYL: You like to box?
PK: I would like to learn, meneer. Are the boys prisoners?
VON ZYL: ( laughs ) No, no. The sons of the guards. See that one there? ( points to a
SMIT: VON ZYL
VON ZYL: We have room for one more on the
SMIT: He's a little small, Kommandant.
VON ZYL: We'll build him up then.
SMIT: Yes, sir. But I really don't have anyone to spare to teach him right now. You know, with the tournament coming up.
VON ZYL: There must be someone.
SMIT: GEEL PIET comes shuffling over, properly submissive.
SMIT: You teach this boy basics, and you teach him good or I knock your black head flat, you hear?
GEEL PIET: I teach him best I know, baas.
SMIT: We train every day. First thing in the morning. Miss two trainings, you're gone.
PK: Yes, meneer.
SMIT: Come tomorrow. See this old Yes, meneer. Thank you, meneer.
PK: Yes, meneer. Thank you, meneer.
VON ZYL: Lieutenant, a word?
GEEL PIET: Don't worry, little baas. Little can beat big any day. First with the head, then with the heart. Little defeat big when little is smart. You can remember that?
PK: Yes, sir.
GEEL PIET: No, no. Don't never call me sir. 'Specially in front of the guards.
PK: What should I call you?
GEEL PIET: Piet. Geel Piet.
COACH: Kaffir. Towels.
GEEL PIET: Okay, baas. Coming, baas.
MARIA: You took a big chance talking to my father the way you did.
PK: Not really. Going in I was behind on points with him. I'm English. I attend a politically suspect school. I'm a boxer.
MARIA: He likes boxers.
PK: All men like boxers. But not for their daughters. So I had to find some way to make an impression.
MARIA: You could have picked a more agreeable topic.
PK: And made much less of an impression. Talk to someone about their passion. Even if they disagree they'll remember you. It was really the most logical strategy if you think about it.
MARIA: Do you spend hours thinking about how to deal with me, too?
PK: Know what I think?
MARIA: Know what I think?
MARIA: When I was little we would go to my grandfather's farm in the high veldt for holiday.
MARIA: My father would take me to the top of the highest hill and we'd play this game, 'What Do You See' until we ran out of things to see. Do you ever play that?
PK: Want to try?
MARIA: Want to try?
PK: The Ferris wheel stops to let more people on. Johannesburg glitters beyond.
MARIA: I see a forest. It goes on forever. There are giant trees which keep getting bigger and bigger over thousands of years. Now you.
PK: I see little trees growing on the forest floor, learning to grow with the little bit of light the big trees let in. Now you.
MARIA: I see the big trees getting bigger, their leaves and branches making one great green umbrella over all of Africa.
PK: I see the sun growing weaker, giving off less light. I see the big trees dying because they cannot live without a lot of light. I see the little trees take over the forest because they learn to adapt.
MARIA: You tell a very good story.
GEEL PIET: You wear out this old man. See? See how it can work? How little beat big?
PK: Yes, sir. But when do I get to You not going to just punch, man. You going to combination.
GEEL PIET: You not going to just punch, man. You going to combination.
GEEL PIET: One-two. One-two. C'mon. Now you. One-two. One-two.
GEEL PIET: Oh do we have a boxer here. Yes sir. We build you to eight-punch combination. The Geel Piet eight. Then you catch afire. One-two.
DOC: How is the next Joe Louis this Try and hit me.
PK: Try and hit me.
PK: No. C'mon.
PK: No. Try hard.
DOC: You are amazing.
PK: And I'm going to learn the Geel Piet eight.
DOC: Yes, yes, yes. But right now you have to come learn the Beethoven Fifth for one hour so we can get to the cactus before it's too hot to plant. Did you bring her?
PK: Parchypodium Namquanium.
DOC: Excellent. Excellent. We make from you a champion and a brain.
GEEL PIET: ( furtive ) Excuse me, big baas. But can I talk to the small baas?
DOC: Of course.
GEEL PIET: Every day I see you bring the bucket and in the bottom is some tobacco leaf.
PK: It keeps the roots wet.
GEEL PIET: What happens to the leaf after?
DOC: A little I use in some water to make a bug spray for the plants.
PK: And the rest we throw away.
GEEL PIET: If you leave the pail when you go plant is a problem, small baas?
PK: I don't understand.
GEEL PIET: Is like this. You see how hard the life is for the people here in prison. Only little pleasure they take from this hard life maybe sometimes when no one watching late at night a little smoke. Now with the big war in Europe tobacco is plenty hard to get outside. Inside it is gone. We are the forgotten in here.
PK: We have bunches of leaves at home. I'll bring a whole bucketful No, no. Mustn't do that, little I don't understand.
GEEL PIET: No, no. Mustn't do that, little I don't understand.
PK: I don't understand.
DOC: What Geel Piet means is it can be dangerous. Something the guards might not want the people to have.
PK: What's wrong with tobacco? Why wouldn't they want them to have it?
DOC: What's wrong is people whose job it is to punish. After a little while it is all they know how to What should I do?
PK: What should I do?
DOC: This is for you to answer.
BORMANN: I smell something not right here, ay, kaffir?
GEEL PIET: ( submissive ) No, meneer sergeant. Everything okay here.
BORMANN: I don't fuckin' believe you.
BORMANN: If you're up to something I'll find out.
DOC: GEEL PIET
GEEL PIET: No, no. This old kaffir's okay. Sorry to make any trouble, little baas. We just stick to the boxing now on. Sorry, sorry.
PK: Geel Piet.
PK: I leave my bucket on the side by Doc's toilet when I practice PK, to me you are the champion of the world already. Come. Let us go box now with Mr. Beethoven.
DOC: PK, to me you are the champion of the world already. Come. Let us go box now with Mr. Beethoven.
SOLLY: Now at the end of the Geel Piet eight you do this. one-two. One-two-three. the Solly Goldman thirteen. Okay?
SOLLY: That's it. That's it. Move him around. Jab jab. Slip slip.
SOLLY: And. one-two. one-two-three. That's it. That's it. Now work around the defense. Jab jab.
SOLLY: That's it. That's it. Now work around the defense. Jab jab.
MORRIE: How do you get away with this, Mr. G? Why don't they close you down? I mean, there are laws about blacks and white boxing each other.
SOLLY: In a public match. Not in a gym. Not yet anyway. The Boer is a funny people. Outside the ring the black is not equal. Inside he is. But only in private, not in public. So I keep my mouth shut, the police go a little blind, and that's that. It's a crazy world,
SOLLY: Work him on the heavy bag.
MORRIE: Six, seven, eight, nine, ten. That's it.
ASSISTANT: Solly wants to see you two.
MORRIE: You wanted to see us, Mr. G.?
SOLLY: Close the door. Someone I got a lot of respect for asked me to make a request. He wants to put you in a match.
MORRIE: With who?
SOLLY: A young guy just turned pro. Gideon Mandoma.
MORRIE: A black fighter! They want him to fight a black fighter?
SOLLY: In a black township. Sofiatown.
MORRIE: Out of the question. Not even up for discussion. C'mon, P.K.
PK: Who asked you to ask?
SOLLY: The man who promotes all the fights in Sofiatown Elias And you trust him?
PK: And you trust him?
SOLLY: In thirty years I know him, number one on the list.
MORRIE: You're both out of your minds.
PK: Did he tell you why he wants the I told you what he told me.
SOLLY: I told you what he told me.
PK: Just talking boxing how do I match up with Mandoma?
SOLLY: Pretty even.
MORRIE: I mean besides getting thrown out of school and into jail, do you know what else happens you do this? He's a pro. The minute you fight him you're a pro.
SOLLY: There's no purse being offered.
MORRIE: That's a good career move. Risk everything to gain nothing. Very sound business sense.
PK: Tell Mr. Nguni I'll think about PK exits with Morrie steaming behind. They head for the locker room, PK clearly perturbed.
MORRIE: Okay. What's going on?
PK: I don't know.
MORRIE: Well why don't you tell me what you do know.
PK: There's an African myth about an outsider who comes one day and unites all the tribes into one against their oppressors. They call it the myth of Onoshobishobi Ingelosi the tadpole angel. That chanting at the school For you?
MORRIE: For you?
PK: I haven't heard it in years.
MORRIE: And how did this honor fall on your broad back?
PK: I told you about bringing tobacco to the prisoners at Barberton? Well after that was going for a while I learned that even though they could send and receive letters, they never did. They couldn't read or write.
MORRIE: So you did it for them.
PK: And after that?
MORRIE: And after that?
PK: A clothing program for their families and a food program. One thing sort of led to another.
MORRIE: I can see where 'angel' would be an appropriate title. But it was, uh, this Geel Piet who was really behind all of it, wasn't it?
PK: He was very good at pointing things out.
MORRIE: Man like that should be running a country, not rotting in prison.
PK: He's not in prison anymore. He's dead.
MARIA: I thought I'd surprise you.
PK: Well, you succeeded.
MARIA: Mr. Goldman was explaining the theory behind the left hook.
MORRIE: Beats talking about the weather. You may have heard about me?
MARIA: Oh yes. How d'you do.
SOLLY: Well, nice meeting you, Maria.
MARIA: Nice meeting you, Mr. Goldman.
SOLLY: We never had a girl come to the It's not such a bad thing, huh?
PK: You got a pass to come out on a
MARIA: Your tree pass.
MARIA: Do you box too, Morrie?
MORRIE: Do I look that daft?
PK: Morrie's the brains of the He means the bank. Your boyfriend has a great head for literature but none for finance.
MORRIE: He means the bank. Your boyfriend has a great head for literature but none for finance.
PK: ( in Zulu ) I see you, Nguni.
NGUNI: I see you, P.K.
NGUNI: You have heard my request?
PK: Yes. Why do you make it?
NGUNI: A woman has thrown the sacred ox bones. She has made a fire and read the smoke.
PK: What did she read?
NGUNI: That the Onoshobishobi Ingelosi who is a chief must fight the one who one day will be a chief.
PK: But it's not true that I'm a Who knows what is true and what is not. The legend of Onoshobishobi Ingelosi is very powerful among the people. They see you box the Boer and always you win. They have heard the stories from Barberton. The people live with little hope. They must see if the spirit of the boy still lives in the man.
NGUNI: Who knows what is true and what is not. The legend of Onoshobishobi Ingelosi is very powerful among the people. They see you box the Boer and always you win. They have heard the stories from Barberton. The people live with little hope. They must see if the spirit of the boy still lives in the man.
PK: And if I lose? If the spirit of the Onoshobishobi Ingelosi does not exist in me anymore, then what will they live with?
NGUNI: Less hope. But still they must
POLICE #1: What's this here?
PK: An old family servant, Officer. From home. We just ran into each Papers, man. Come on, be quick.
POLICE #2: Papers, man. Come on, be quick.
POLICE #1: Where you coming from?
PK: Gym, sir. I train there.
POLICE #1: And you?
MORRIE: I'm his manager.
POLICE #2: ( to Maria ) And you're the sparring partner,
POLICE #2: You have an hour to curfew and a long way to go, kaffir. Be off.
NGUNI: ( subservient ) Yes, baas. Going right now.
PK: Nguni turns.
PK: I'll do it.
MARIA: I'm scared for you, PK.
PK: Solly's a great teacher. He wouldn't put me in a fight I couldn't handle.
MARIE: I mean about how involved you are with the black people. That scares me.
PK: Because you don't understand them.
MARIA: No I don't.
PK: If you did you wouldn't be so scared. You ever have a conversation with a black person?
MARIA: Of course.
PK: Besides a servant.
PK: You should sometime.
MARIA: I hate it when you tease me.
PK: He kisses her.
MARIA: ( pouty ) No you're not.
PK: Yes I am. He kisses her again. This time she responds, kissing him back. The kisses become more passionate, touching, feel- ing. The heat in both of them begins to rise when a car passes, its headlights arcing across the tree, startling them out of their passion. They cling to the shadows until the car turns the corner.
MARIA: I better go. They kiss once, lightly. PK boosts her over the wall and waits until she is safely on the other side before run- ning off into the night.
LEWIS: According to your submission you have ambitions to be a writer and the welterweight boxing champion of the world. Lewis reads the last sentence with a tinge of amusement in his voice.
PK: Yes, sir.
LEWIS: Don't you find seeking a career as a pugilist and reading for a degree at Oxford a bit, how shall we put it, intellectually
PK: Lord Byron was a boxer, sir. And I've never heard anyone question his intellectual integrity.
LEWIS: I do not recall Lord Byron actually engaging in matches for Actually, sir, there are several recorded instances of Lord Byron engaging in matches for quite large sums of money.
PK: Actually, sir, there are several recorded instances of Lord Byron engaging in matches for quite large sums of money.
EXAMINER #2: Quite right. Yes. In a letter to his wife Shelley makes mention of just such a thing. For hundreds of pounds, actually.
LEWIS: Let's move along, shall we? As your presentational you've requested to read from a work of your own fiction.
PK: Yes, sir.
LEWIS: Well, then, let us hope we'll be treated to the stirrings of another Byron.
PK: The Concerto for the Southland and the Death of Geel Piet. His name was Geel Piet yellow Peter. He was a mix of half the blood in Africa Dutch, Portuguese, Zulu, Sotha, and who knew what else. His father
PK: You know every time they do that I want to jump up and say I'm just a twelve-year-old. I'm not anything To them you are. You are the one who brings the smoke, the one who writes the letters, the one who puts clothes on their children when they are cold. You are Onoshobishobi Ingelosi.
GEEL PIET: To them you are. You are the one who brings the smoke, the one who writes the letters, the one who puts clothes on their children when they are cold. You are Onoshobishobi Ingelosi.
PK: But you know that's not true.
GEEL PIET: Who is to say what is true and what is not true, kleine baas.
DOC: The Allied armies have crossed the Rhine into Germany. It is almost That's great, isn't it?
PK: That's great, isn't it?
GEEL PIET: ( subdued ) Yes, kleine baas.
DOC: but you don't think it's great at all. It means you lose your star letter writer and tobacco always manage here. What pains me most is I lose my boxer.
GEEL PIET: always manage here. What pains me most is I lose my boxer.
PK: GEEL PIET ( adamant )
GEEL PIET: ( adamant ) No, kleine baas. You leave this damn place you don't come back a work of art he doesn't lose it. He sends it out in the world so everyone can see the genius of his creation. This is what you are going to do. And to celebrate the launch of such a work of art as you have made our boxer here, I have composed an entire concerto 'The Concerto for the Southland' which it is my intention to play in concert for the prisoners before I leave.
DOC: a work of art he doesn't lose it. He sends it out in the world so everyone can see the genius of his creation. This is what you are going to do. And to celebrate the launch of such a work of art as you have made our boxer here, I have composed an entire concerto 'The Concerto for the Southland' which it is my intention to play in concert for the prisoners before I leave.
GEEL PIET: never allow the people to have such a thing.
DOC: and the brass. But we'll know, ay? And the people will know.
PK: white here, Doc.
DOC: orchestra, like the piano, he But the people have no instruments in this place, big baas.
GEEL PIET: But the people have no instruments in this place, big baas.
DOC: They have their voices. Each tribe a different voice, a different language all singing together. It is brilliant, no?
PK: Except the tribes don't trust each other. They don't even talk to each other.
DOC: ( crestfallen ) Oh. This is correct. This stupid They will do it for you, kleine baas. You are Onoshobishobi Ingelosi. You bring the tobacco. You write the letters. You put clothes on their children's bodies and food in their bellies. All you do is ask and they all sing for you.
GEEL PIET: They will do it for you, kleine baas. You are Onoshobishobi Ingelosi. You bring the tobacco. You write the letters. You put clothes on their children's bodies and food in their bellies. All you do is ask and they all sing for you.
DOC: He's right. Wunderbar. You are the smartest of us all. Geel Piet smiles as he lifts the watering pot to exit. A truncheon stops him. All turn to Sergeant Bormann.
BORMANN: A kaffir smarter than all of us? You are a strange German, That little maniac with the moustache in Berlin you admire. He is the strange German. And soon kaput, I hope.
DOC: That little maniac with the moustache in Berlin you admire. He is the strange German. And soon kaput, I hope.
BORMANN: If that's true you'll not be long for this place, eh, Professor?
DOC: No, Sergeant. God willing.
BORMANN: And you, too, little Rooinek. But you, kaffir, Hitler comes or
BORMANN: You are going to stay with me.
BORMANN: And I will find out all your secrets once your friends are gone. One slip.
BORMANN: I have you.
BORMANN: Get out of here.
BORMANN: You see, Professor, they are not like us. A white man would scream bloody murder.
DOC: Have you seen my page turner?
PK: He asks a prisoner in Zulu.
PK: Have you seen Geel Piet?
DOC: ( reassuring ) He will come.
VON ZYL: Where is Bormann? I need Bormann to translate to the prisoners.
SMIT: I don't know, Kommandant.
DOC: Is there a problem here, I want to address these filthy kaffirs but I don't have a I'll translate.
VON ZYL: I want to address these filthy kaffirs but I don't have a I'll translate.
PK: I'll translate.
VON ZYL: You can speak Zulu, PK?
PK: Yes, sir.
VON ZYL: All right. Listen up.
VON ZYL: Tell them this concert is the gift to them from the professor who, even though he is in prison, is not a dirty criminal like them but a man of culture and learning.
PK: ( subtitled ) The Kommandant welcomes you and looks forward to the great For such a man I am happy to do this. But one hair of trouble and it's finish.
VON ZYL: For such a man I am happy to do this. But one hair of trouble and it's finish.
PK: ( subtitled ) He hopes each tribe will sing its best and bring honor to its One wrong move and you get marched back to your cells and don't come out for a month.
VON ZYL: One wrong move and you get marched back to your cells and don't come out for a month.
PK: ( subtitled ) He says tonight let us be one people under the African sky.
VON ZYL: You did a good job.
PK: Thank you, sir.
VON ZYL: He turns the stage over to the professor and takes his seat. The professor sits at his stool, poised. PK, in front of the singers, watches him for a cue. Doc drops his head. PK points to a group of singers. MUSIC and VOICE blend spontaneously. "The Concerto for the Great Southland" begins. Doc plays magnificently with great style. PK focuses on leading the singers. Each section, each tribe singing its own songs with its own distinct cultural imprints on rhythm, pace and tone.
PK: Startled, Bormann jumps out of the ring and runs off. PK scrambles into the ring and cradles the lifeless, blood- ied head in his lap, and begins to sob. PAN DOWN along Geel Piet's arm to his bloodied hand, holding the snapshot of him and PK. The Concerto grows LOUDER around PK until it enfolds him in its melodies. The voices of Africa, the music of Europe, reaching for a musical and spiritual crescendo.
LEWIS: Thank you very much. You will be notified as to the University's decision by mail.
LEWIS: Point of curiousity.
LEWIS: Your headmaster told me your work is somewhat autobiographical.
PK: Yes, sir.
LEWIS: This Bormann, he was real?
PK: Yes, sir.
LEWIS: Was justice ever served?
PK: Yes, sir. Sergeant Bormann died of cancer. of the rectum.
PK: We have to make a stop first.
SOLLY: The night won't last forever, It'll only take a minute.
PK: It'll only take a minute.
SOLLY: The night I escaped from the Tsar's Army it was just like this. Six of us four Jews, two Ukranians. Dark as anything. No streets. In the day we hid in bushes. At night we went.
MORRIE: You deserted?
SOLLY: Whey they come take you at thirteen years old and tell you it's twenty-five years in the Army, it's your duty to desert.
SOLLY: You said the end of the road.
NGUNI: Yes, yes. Sorry. I drive. Welcome, miss, welcome.
NGUNI: ( smiling ) Welcome, miss, welcome.
MARIA: Thank you.
VOICES: Onoshobishobi Ingelosi.
NGUNI: The people have come from everywhere to see you.
MORRIE: Where are the men?
NGUNI: They are to be witness.
NGUNI: No worry, miss. It is the sound of happiness.
NGUNI: We are here.
MORRIE: I don't see why we have to weigh in. They're going to fight It is very important the people see everything is correct.
NGUNI: It is very important the people see everything is correct.
PK: ( in Zulu ) I see you, Gideon Mandoma.
MANDOMA: I see you, PK.
PK: I just want you to know you fight a man. Onoshobishobi Ingelosi is just a name I was given at Barberton Prison. It means It is not for you or me to say what it means.
MANDOMA: It is not for you or me to say what it means.
NGUNI: He motions for PK to step on the scale. PK does. The weight is duly noted. Mandoma then does the same. The twelve men are satisfied. They head for the exit.
NGUNI: It is time.
WHISPERS: The Woman in the ring begins to chant. The crowd picks it up.
CROWD: Onoshobishopi Ingelosi. Shobi shobi Ingelosi.
OLD WOMAN: Onoshobishobi Ingelosi.
REFEREE: You are listening to me please. When I am shouting break, you must break at once. When a knockdown is coming, it is for an eight count. No heads, no elbows. You fight clean or by golly I am giving you penalty points. Good luck, boys. What do you see?
PK: What do you see?
SOLLY: A very tough fight.
SOLLY: Watch the left hook. Mandoma comes charging across the ring and begins to fire everything in his arsenal at PK, overwhelming him. PK cannot get away from him and takes a series of devastat- ing combinations which end in a left hook to PK's jaw. PK drops like lead. The Referee starts counting. PK shakes his head clear and rises at eight. The Referee checks his gloves. There is a cut under his right eye.
REFEREE: Again, Mandoma comes charging hard. PK defends himself as best he can, trying to counter. But Mandoma's offense won't allow it. He beats on PK until the round ends. PK sits down in his corner. Morrie works on his eye.
PK: God, he hits like a truck.
SOLLY: He's going for the quick knockout. He can't keep it up. Soon the truck runs out of gas.
PK: If he catches me again like that I'll run out of gas The BELL SOUNDS. PK is hardly off his stool when Mandoma is on him, pummeling him. PK backpedals, bobs and weaves. Mandoma's punches come fast and furious, each one looking to end the fight. Mandoma gets PK against the ropes and bangs away. PK covers up. Mandoma punishes his arms and kidneys. PK swings back and es- capes. Mandoma pursues him. He catches PK with a body chop and then a chopping left. PK goes down again. The Referee starts to count. The crowd is completely silent. The BELL RINGS. PK returns to his corner, shaking his head, trying to clear it. He flops onto his stool.
SOLLY: He's had it. He's got no strength in his punch.
PK: Could've fooled me.
SOLLY: I'm telling you.
PK: Tell him.
MORRIE: Look he's taking water.
SOLLY: See. Where that water goes you go. Right to here.
SOLLY: You put your punches there, you win. You don't, you lose.
REFEREE: Three. four. five.
REFEREE: . seven. eight. nine. How many fingers?
REFEREE: How many fingers?
PK: Where are you?
REFEREE: Where are you?
PK: In a fight behind on points.
REFEREE: Okay. Continue.
MORRIE: We're in the shit now. Nice knowing you, Solly.
MANDOMA: Onoshobishobi Ingelosi.
MARIA: The Seniors Dance is two Saturdays from now. I would like it if you could escort me.
PK: Maria Marais with a rooinek at the Senior Dance? What will people think?
MARIA: They'll think what they think and I'll think what I think.
PK: And what is that?
MARIA: I think I love you.
PK: I would be honored to be your
MARIA: I didn't doubt it for a minute.
PK: I'll give you a boost.
MARIA: Thank you for tonight. You were
SOLLY: When you and your manager first came to me with that meshuganah idea to be welterweight champion of the world you did not have a big believer here. But I gotta tell you. Now you do. In London lives Benny Rosen, the greatest trainer in the world today. When you go to your Oxford I give you a letter to Rosen. Whatever I can't do for you, he can.
PK: Thanks, Mr. G.
SOLLY: And I give the address of a very good bookmaker. Teach you also a thing or two. Now, go on back to being fancy-schmancy English gentlemen. I'm proud of both of
MORRIE: You're up early, sir.
ST. JOHN: Best time for walking.
PK: Best time for running too, sir.
MORRIE: Have to put in the roadwork, sir. You know, keep those legs strong.
ST. JOHN: Yes. Quite a fresh bruise there.
PK: I tripped.
ST. JOHN: Maybe you should change your
ST. JOHN: To something a little more appropriate for.
BOTH: Yes, sir.
MANDOMA: Please excuse me for coming like a thief by the window.
PK: You speak English?
PK: You are a great fighter, Gideon.
MANDOMA: Second greatest in this room.
PK: But you didn't come to talk about When you say to me, Onoshobishobi Ingelosi means nothing, you are right. And you are wrong. The legend gives the people hope for a good tomorrow. But hope alone will not make a good tomorrow for the people. You cannot write our letters, get us clothes, food, work. These things we must do ourselves, so we can be part of this country's good tomorrow. If we are not, the hope will disappear. The people will grow tired. The tired will grow angry and there will be no good tomorrow for anybody black or white.
MANDOMA: When you say to me, Onoshobishobi Ingelosi means nothing, you are right. And you are wrong. The legend gives the people hope for a good tomorrow. But hope alone will not make a good tomorrow for the people. You cannot write our letters, get us clothes, food, work. These things we must do ourselves, so we can be part of this country's good tomorrow. If we are not, the hope will disappear. The people will grow tired. The tired will grow angry and there will be no good tomorrow for anybody black or white.
PK: What are you asking from me?
MANDOMA: To be part of something you must know what everyone else knows. We have our own knowledge. We need yours.
MORRIE: We get our knowledge in schools, Gideon. We're not born with it.
MANDOMA: Then it must be the same with us.
MORRIE: You have schools.
MANDOMA: Yes. And teachers who cannot do more than their own ABC's. We have a system made not to teach I am only seventeen years old, Gideon. I cannot teach five million people how to speak English and do sums.
PK: ( anxious ) I am only seventeen years old, Gideon. I cannot teach five million people how to speak English and do sums.
MANDOMA: You taught the singing to thousands at Barberton Prison. You were only twelve.
PK: Second greatest in this room,
ST. JOHN: You are asking me for a lot, young man.
PK: I'm only asking you to put what you've taught us into practice, You are asking me to put the reputation of this school in The reputation of this school, sir, is based on its integrity.
ST. JOHN: You are asking me to put the reputation of this school in The reputation of this school, sir, is based on its integrity.
PK: The reputation of this school, sir, is based on its integrity.
ST. JOHN: I'm aware of that. I'm also aware of what will happen if this ever gets out. We live in a country where the rules are being Then we'd better be careful to keep a firm hand on our pens. . sir.
PK: Then we'd better be careful to keep a firm hand on our pens. . sir.
ST. JOHN: All right. I will allow it on a trial basis. Here are my conditions: you tell no one; you operate at night on Saturdays when the student body is gone; you involve no one besides yourself and Mr. Levy. If you can comply, you can have your school.
MARIA: Ready. Set. Go! You okay?
PK: You okay?
MARIA: You're supposed to let me win.
PK: Then you'd say I was being You were guilty of that when you gave me a head start.
MARIA: You were guilty of that when you gave me a head start.
MARIA: Get your formal yet?
PK: Uh. no.
MARIA: The dance is only a week away.
PK: ( beat ) I can't come to the dance.
MARIA: ( shocked ) Why not?
PK: I have an obligation.
MARIA: Can't you change it?
PK: It's a permanent obligation. Every Saturday night. It starts tonight.
MARIA: You're breaking up with me.
PK: Then what could be so important that it takes all your Saturday I really can't say.
MARIA: Then what could be so important that it takes all your Saturday I really can't say.
PK: I really can't say.
MARIA: P.K., I love you. Please don't go away.
PK: I'm not going away.
MARIA: Yes you are. I can feel it.
PK: I'm not. I'm just tutoring.
PK: I started a school. . for Gideon Mandoma and some others in the seniors library.
MARIA: I'm losing you to a bunch of You're not losing anything.
PK: You're not losing anything.
MARIA: No? Are you escorting me to the dance? Are you going to see me on the only free night they give us?
PK: Maria, this is important to me.
MARIA: And my life's important to me. Damn you.
DOC: ( breathing hard ) Ach. You see how beautiful?
PK: You ever hear of glycerine, Doc?
DOC: Mr. Going-To-Oxford-Smarty-Pants. Of course I know about glycerine. Triglycerine. Biglycerine. Monoglycerine. What do you want to know?
PK: Why you don't use it. It's only a little pill under the tongue.
DOC: Tongues were not made to put little pills under. When I have to start with that, I become something else.
PK: Well, until you become something else, the little pills would make this easier on your heart.
DOC: Little pills or no little pills we don't find cover, we both turn into something else.
DOC: Look for a cave. Always in this kind of rock there is caves. Quick! Quick!
DOC: Don't look at me. Go!
PK: I've found something.
PK: You okay?
PK: What are you doing?
DOC: Why don't you just rest?
PK: Why don't you just rest?
DOC: Plenty time for resting when I am something else. Look.
DOC: When does a cave have wind? This
DOC: Here. See? There is a passage.
DOC: You know the pyramids are nothing more than man's attempt to recreate the first safe home our species had the cave. It is the ultimate safe resting place. The first place man could lay down and have a good night's sleep without worrying about waking up as something's supper. You hear that? There is something waiting for us.
DOC: You hear that? There is something waiting for us.
PK: Let's hope it's not hungry.
DOC: Better, ja?
PK: What's that smell?
PK: What's that?
PK: Maybe it's stopped raining.
DOC: Who can think about rain when you are on the edge of the great unknown cave.
PK: You don't know that.
DOC: The bats didn't come from a shoebox, Mr. Know-It-All.
DOC: Sometimes I think maybe sending you off to that fancy-shmancy school was not such a good idea.
PK: It was your idea. Your'e the one who pushed for me to go.
DOC: Ja. But who knew they do such a good job of boxing up part of
PK: Which part is that?
DOC: The one where is all the questions. The curiosity center. Did I tell you?
DOC: Did I tell you?
DOC: The whole chamber glistens with an eerie phosphorescence. Toward one end of the crystallized room eight stalagmites grown up from the floor cement to form a huge crystal slab some ten feet off the floor. A buttress of stalg- mites drip off it forming a natural, if uneven, stairway.
DOC: How many hundreds of thousands of years to make this masterpiece? Everything outside can change, P.K. This remains the same. We are in the heart of Africa, P.K. The heart of Africa.
PK: ( to himself )
PK: I wish we had brought the camera. Think there's enough light to
PK: His concern rises. He moves through the maze of crystal, his pace quickening.
PK: Still no answer. His vision obscured, PK reaches the elevated slab. He clambers up the buttress for a better view. When he reaches the top he stops cold.
PK: This is not funny.
DOC: This is incredible! The crystal. You can feel the life go right through you. Here.
DOC: Come try it.
PK: ( short ) No. That's all right. Can we go?
DOC: We have only just gotten here. What's the matter, P.K.?
PK: All day long you've been talking about becoming something else, about dying. You never talked about dying before.
DOC: I'm 87 next month. It's natural.
PK: Not to a sixteen-year-old it's not. It's painful.
DOC: You are right. I am sorry. Sixteen-year-old ears should only hear life.
PK: I'll just set you up with some coffee here, so in the morning you won't have to bother making it.
PK: I didn't mean to tell you what
PK: PK turns to Doc, dead asleep, still sitting up. PK goes over and gently lays the old man down. He removes his boots and throws a blanket over him. PK blows out the kerosene lamp and goes to exit. He is about to hang their two rucksacks on two hooks by the door when Doc's voice turns him.
DOC: I'm here, Doc.
P.K.?: I'm here, Doc.
PK: I'm here, Doc.
DOC: The crystal cave will be our secret, ja?
PK: Whatever you say.
DOC: I promise.
PK: I promise.
DOC: Ja. Good. I rest a little. The heart of Africa, P.K.
DOC: The heart.
MORRIE: Christ! If someone would have told me this is where I'd be on a Saturday night, last term of my senior year, I'd call them You know, you're going to owe me for the rest of your life on this That all? I figured you'd hold me to it longer.
PK: That all? I figured you'd hold me to it longer.
MORRIE: You get the insider friend's Thanks, mate.
PK: Thanks, mate.
MANDOMA: I see you, P.K.
PK: I see you, Gideon.
MORRIE: Let's get inside before the whole bloody world sees us.
MANDOMA: He clasps Morrie's hand, first in a traditional hand- shake, then in an African handshake. Mandoma smiles.
MANDOMA: You some great friend.
PK: Let's go. Stay to the fence.
PK: All right, class. I know you don't understand a word I'm saying, but part of learning a language is hearing it spoken. So I am P.K.
PK: P.K. This. . is Morrie. Now you all have a chalkboard.
PK: Chalk and an eraser. I will say
ALL: The door to the library suddenly opens. Everyone freezes. Maria enters the room. PK is stunned.
'A.': The door to the library suddenly opens. Everyone freezes. Maria enters the room. PK is stunned.
PK: Excuse me.
MARIA: I thought you might need some help. Or I can just sit and
PK: Class. This is Maria. She is now the teacher. We're doing alphabet, from the letter 'A.'
MARIA: No one says anything. Maria looks a little lost.
'A.': No one says anything. Maria looks a little lost.
PK: ( in Zulu ) Repeat what she says. ( to Maria ) Say it again.
MARIA: She writes it on the blackboard again. PK and Morrie trade a look and a smile.
'A.': She writes it on the blackboard again. PK and Morrie trade a look and a smile.
ALL: She writes it on the blackboard again. PK and Morrie trade a look and a smile.
'A.': She writes it on the blackboard again. PK and Morrie trade a look and a smile.
MARIA: 'A.' Write 'A.'
MANDOMA: ( to Maria ) You are one brave Boer, Miss Thank you.
MARIA: Thank you.
MANDOMA: And you are one lucky English.
PK: Good night, Gideon.
MORRIE: Well, I think I'll go. um. lay on my back and count the cracks in the ceiling. 'Night. Nice to see you, Maria.
MARIA: Good night, Morrie.
PK: I am one lucky English.
MARIA: P.K. Can I ask you a favor?
PK: We don't have to go in or anything. You can hear the music from outside. I'd love to have one dance with you before I graduate.
MARIA: We don't have to go in or anything. You can hear the music from outside. I'd love to have one dance with you before I graduate.
PK: I feel so good. Race you to the You need a headstart?
MARIA: I feel so good. Race you to the You need a headstart?
PK: You need a headstart?
MARIA: She takes off. PK follows.
MORRIE: We made it! We made it!
MORRIE: Sorry. I couldn't bear the suspense after I read mine. I had to open it.
MORRIE: Three months and we're out of You're out of here.
PK: You're out of here.
MORRIE: What the hell are you talking
MORRIE: ( reading ) 'Dear sir. It is our pleasure to inform you that you have been accepted to matriculate at Trinity College, Oxford,' etc., etc., etc.
PK: It says nothing about the A technicality.
MORRIE: A technicality.
BOY: St. John wants to see you two in his study.
MORRIE: Good news travels fast.
PK: I'll get showered and changed.
BOY: He said to come as you are.
PK: Wanted to see us, sir?
ST. JOHN: Yes. Come in. Close the door.
ST. JOHN: This is Brigadier Bretyn from the police department.
ST. JOHN: He has come to deliver, in person, an order to close the Saturday Because it is illegal.
PK: Because it is illegal.
BRETYN: Because it is illegal.
MORRIE: We're only teaching them how to read and do sums.
BRETYN: You don't have certification to do that.
PK: Prince of Wales is a certified Yes. But not certified for that
BRETYN: Yes. But not certified for that
PK: Can he do this, sir?
BRETYN: Of course I can do it. Would I be here if I couldn't? Come now meneer headmaster. Let's end this now. I have a full day ahead of me still.
ST. JOHN: ( resigned ) The Saturday school is to be disbanded until further notice.
BRETYN: Thank you, meneer headmaster. Your cooperation in this matter is very appreciated. Good day.
PK: You know it can't go on like this
BRETYN: What can't?
PK: What you're doing.
BRETYN: I'm just doing my job. And if you'll take some advice, you should just do yours.
MORRIE: Is that really the end of it, sir?
ST. JOHN: For the moment I'm afraid it is.
PK: If we let them get away with it on our own grounds, it will never
ST. JOHN: History disputes you.
PK: History takes too long.
ST. JOHN: Yes it does. But it is never kind to those who try to hurry it.
PK: I feel we should resist, sir.
ST. JOHN: So do I, P.K. But this is not a subtle government. They mean to have their way and damn the consequences. And I cannot jeopardize this school, no matter how I personally feel. I'm sorry. I heard you were accepted at Yes, sir. Received notification Well, congratulations.
MORRIE: Yes, sir. Received notification Well, congratulations.
ST. JOHN: Well, congratulations.
MORRIE: Thank you, sir.
ST. JOHN: To both of you.
PK: ( tight ) Thank you, sir.
ST. JOHN: We'll talk before you go.
PK: Yes, sir. Will that be all?
ST. JOHN: That'll be all.
PK: I'd like to see Maria Marais
GUARD: Sorry. She's not allowed Well, if I could just talk to her.
PK: Well, if I could just talk to her.
GUARD: PK backs away and moves off down the street. He turns the corner.
PK: Morrie. Morrie.
MORRIE: I want to show you something.
PK: I want to show you something.
MORRIE: What time is it?
MORRIE: Can I see it later?
PK: No. Come on.
MORRIE: You know, when we get to Oxford separate rooms.
PK: Will you hurry.
MORRIE: Is there some girl out there waiting for me?
PK: Yeah. Stunning. Breasts like casabas. Just waiting for you.
MORRIE: PK throws a jersey into his chest and pulls him out of the room.
PK: What do you think?
MORRIE: I think you're fooling yourself into thinking the bastards won't
PK: This is a church. Didn't you ever hear of the Christian concept of sanctuary?
MORRIE: Yes. But I'm not the one who has to respect it.
PK: Even the Boer has limits, Morrie.
MORRIE: I'm sure he does, but I'd still like to see a big bolt on the inside door.
CARETAKER: Mr. Levy?
SOLLY: Now move it nice and easy, the both of you. Time.
PK: They want us to close the school.
MANDOMA: I know.
PK: We are still game.
MANDOMA: So are we.
SOLLY: Would you two find some other time to chat. This is a boxing ring, not a social club.
PK: ( cool ) I was in the neighborhood.
MARIA: ( whispering ) They're sending me away to school in Pretoria. I told my father I wouldn't go. He said if I didn't he'd see they arrest you and ruin your chances. I couldn't let him do that.
PK: When do you go?
MARIA: Next week. I want to make love to you, P.K.
MARIA: I do.
PK: If you'll all be seated we can So far so good.
PK: So far so good.
PK: I want to thank you all for having the courage to come Thank you.
ALL: ( in Zulu ) You're welcome.
PK: I will be teaching the first part of class tonight and Mr. Levy will teach the second.
PK: Miss Marais. Will she not be Not anymore.
MANDOMA: Miss Marais. Will she not be Not anymore.
PK: Not anymore.
PK: He says the word in Zulu.
PK: I see. You see. We see.
ALL: I see. You see. We see.
PK: I see the boy.
ALL: I see the boy.
PK: I see the boy.
ALL: I see the boy.
PK: Girl. I see the girl.
ALL: I see the girl.
MARIA: P.K., it's me.
MARIA: I wanted to say goodbye to my . and to you.
WOMEN: We see the girl.
BRETYN: Once warned. Twice punished.
PK: You're violating the sanctity of the church.
BRETYN: No. You are with your damned race mixing ideas, rooinek.
PK: At least let the women go.
BRETYN: You want everything to be equal, little Boetie. Why not men and women too?
MORRIE: He goes to charge out the door, but to his chagrin the door does not open, locked from the outside.
BRETYN: Locks keep people out but they also keep them in.
BRETYN: Get up, you bloody commie Jew!
BRETYN: The two police lines start to move towards each other, sandwiching the Africans, PK and Maria. Mandoma gives an order. The blacks pick up anything they can to face the inevitablestools, chairs, a
PK: No. Wait. We'll leave.
BRETYN: Too late. You never should have come. At the ready.
PK: No! Stop!
BRETYN: The police charge from both ends of the room, yelling, clubs held high. The Africans respond with their own war cry and engage the club-swinging police. A policeman swings at PK who ducks and buries a hook into the man's ribs followed by another to his jaw. The man goes down.
MARIA: PK turns off-balance. Maria leaps. The club cuts through the air. Maria is caught flush on the forehead as she comes between PK and the club. She falls to the floor dead. PK swings a stool with all his might, breaking the cop's face open.
PK!: PK turns off-balance. Maria leaps. The club cuts through the air. Maria is caught flush on the forehead as she comes between PK and the club. She falls to the floor dead. PK swings a stool with all his might, breaking the cop's face open.
PK: PK drops to the fallen girl's side. He is frantic at the sight of her gaping bloody wound and the sight of her open blank eyes. The battle raging around him recedes before his pain and rising rage. All at once he explodes, screaming like a madman. He leaps at Bretyn and bangs one punch after another into the startled man. Bretyn's face is broken over and over against PK's fists. Still PK keeps pounding blow after blow into the fallen man. Three cops descend on PK and beat him mercilessly until he drops to the floor, unconscious. Mandoma is hit hard and goes down. The few Africans left fighting go down before the withering assault of clubs, fists, and boots.
MEN: Daniel. No.
MORRIE: ( surprised ) You're applying to South African In case the scholarship doesn't come through.
PK: In case the scholarship doesn't come through.
MORRIE: Why are you so bloody stubborn? You don't belong in a South African university any more than I belong in the priesthood. Will you take my father's loan?
BOY: There a Mr. P.K. here?
MORRIE: It's your scholarship.
BOY: Sign here. Odd name P.K.
MORRIE: What's your name?
BOY: You're not one to talk about
MORRIE: You're not one to talk about
MORRIE: What's it say?
PK: Doc's missing.
VON ZYL: Since his pneumonia last year I've had one of the men drop by once a week to see if he needed anything. Of course you know the professor. He never did. At the beginning of the week he wasn't home so I decided to drop by myself. Waited a whole day here. When he didn't come back I sent search parties. After three days I sent the telegram. Seven days is a long time for him to be gone. Do you have any ideas where he went?
VON ZYL: At the beginning of the week he wasn't home so I decided to drop by myself. Waited a whole day here. When he didn't come back I sent search parties. After three days I sent the telegram. Seven days is a long time for him to be gone. Do you have any ideas where he went?
PK: Hello? Mr. G? Anyone here?
PK: Mr. Goldman, why isn't anybody
SOLLY: A repeat performance of history, my boy. Solly Goldman's being deported. Of course last time I didn't have the luxury of being able to pack.
PK: For what reason?
SOLLY: Their reason is that I'm here illegal. I didn't enter the country with a passport. Like the Czar was issuing passports to Russian Jews in 1910.
PK: This is because of me, isn't it?
SOLLY: No, boychick. This is because of them. They are the problem, not you. Don't ever think different. You look tired. Want a glass tea?
PK: No, no. I have to get back to
SOLLY: You got your head screwed on right. Don't let these meshuganahs screw it on wrong. Now go on. You want to find me, look at Benny Rosen's gym in East End, London.
PK: Thank you for everything.
SOLLY: We're not finished yet.
MARAIS: You're a very good writer. The subject matter is a little inflammatory but the style is What are you doing here?
PK: What are you doing here?
MARAIS: I came to inform you that you will not be receiving aid from the National Scholarship Fund. Neither will you be admitted to any of the South African universities. Here are your applications back.
MARAIS: I told you when you came to my house. I am first a member of my tribe and I will defend it any way I know how.
MORRIE: Take the hint. Screw the scholarship. Come on. Let's If I leave or if I stay in South Africa it's because I choose to, not because they choose for me.
PK: If I leave or if I stay in South Africa it's because I choose to, not because they choose for me.
MORRIE: Where are you going?
PK: Save my place at Oxford.
MORRIE: P.K., goddammit!
PK: Save my place.
THOMAS: Are you crazy? To sign on for a year?
PK: You said I was the best you ever taught, sir.
THOMAS: And you are, boyo. The absolute But even the best doesn't survive a year on the bars. Down in that damn tube the luck runs out sooner than later. You may be a genius at reading the rock but you ain't no fuckin' fortune teller.
PK: You worked grizzly a year.
THOMAS: And let me show you what I have to show for it to this day.
THOMAS: And that's thirteen years after the fact, boyo.
PK: Something wrong?
THOMAS: ( unconvincing )
BARTENDER: One double brandy. One. lemon soda.
THOMAS: Come on, then.
THOMAS: On being the best damned blaster ever taught by Ian Thomas.
THOMAS: The bartender pours another.
THOMAS: Sure you don't want one?
PK: I don't like the taste.
THOMAS: Taste? You don't drink for the He holds out his hand. It is steady now. He fixes PK with a portentous stare. Thomas looks over at the table of drillers. The man with the headache is downing one shot after another.
THOMAS: Hell's comin'.
THOMAS: Drillers. He's got a powder pain from breathin' too much of that damn gelignite. The pain's bad enough. Mixed with a little alcohol it's fuckin' lethal.
THOMAS: Come on. We ain't got much time.
THOMAS: The two most dangerous things you'll ever see in your life, boyo: a hangup of rock that won't blast free on first shot and a driller with a powder headache drinkin'.
PK: You know, Rasputin, I had them right where I wanted them. Another minute they were done
ELIJAH: Baas. Baas.
ELIJAH: I wait for you, baas.
PK: Let's clean her off and call it a night, hey?
PK: Come in.
JOCKO: Ay, man. If you'd let him win once in a while we could take a little book on it here.
PK: He doesn't care if he wins. He just likes to play.
JOCKO: And you?
PK: I like to win.
JOCKO: Which is why I'm about visiting you. You've come on the board, man. There are odds on your making it or not.
PK: How are they?
JOCKO: ( low ) Not in your favor, my boy.
PK: Why are you telling me this, When you come up on the boards, boyo, it's time to bow out. It's an omen.
JOCKO: When you come up on the boards, boyo, it's time to bow out. It's an omen.
PK: I bow out you can't make book.
JOCKO: PK, it's not a bet I want to Tell me, Jocko, how high will the odds go on something like this?
PK: Tell me, Jocko, how high will the odds go on something like this?
JOCKO: The shorter your time, the higher they go. With you probably ten, twelve, thirteen to one when you're short a month.
PK: When the odds hit the top put me in against all bets for two hundred quid.
JOCKO: I did not come here to solicit your bet.
PK: I know that. I appreciate it. But if you don't take it, someone else will.
JOCKO: All right. You're a bleery fool. And I'll be prayin' every night it's the only bet I ever have to pay off on.
PK: And so will I.
JOCKO: You should let him win once in a When he wins it won't be because I let him.
PK: When he wins it won't be because I let him.
PK: Rasputin laughs, speaks in Russian, and starts to set the board up again. Jocko exits.
PK: Did you hear a blast whistle?
ELIJAH: No, baas.
PK: I never heard a drill at night.
PK: It's not a ghost. It's just some driller trying to squeeze extra pay. Come on.
ELIJAH: ( whispered )
PK: Not the first bloody thing!
ELIJAH: Bad sign, baas.
PK: Bad drilling's more like it. Come on. Let's get it going.
PK: ( whispered ) What's the matter with them?
ELIJAH: They say juju. Bad magic is in the mine tonight.
PK: She's playing with us tonight. Fuse set?
PK: Go on.
ELIJAH: I stay with you, baas.
PK: That's an order.
PK: One. two. three.
RASPUTIN: He yells at his crew to grab the tools and he runs off down the tunnel.
PK!: He yells at his crew to grab the tools and he runs off down the tunnel.
MINER #1: He's dead. No doubt about it.
MINER #2: You give me a fair odds on ten Four to one.
MINER #1: Four to one.
MINER #2: Make it a sixer and you got me.
MINER #1: You're on.
MINER #2: Anyone else? Six to one he's
MINER #3: He says someone was up there. Blasted it out on PK from the other side?
MINER #4: Who's the driller?
MINER #3: MINER #4
MINER #4: No one drills Botha's stope but Botha, and he only works days.
PK: ( strangled ) Help. Help.
RASPUTIN: He starts tearing away at the rock, doubling his effort.
PK!: He starts tearing away at the rock, doubling his effort.
RASPUTIN: PK! PK!
PK! PK!: CUT TO:
JOCKO: Well, look at ya now, boyo. Up and at 'em in no time. And rich as a fuckin' lord.
PK: What's this?
JOCKO: Your ticket to ride. Two hundred quid at fourteen to But I didn't make it. I'm a month short.
PK: But I didn't make it. I'm a month short.
JOCKO: Not according to managment. They cashed you out at twelve months for eleven worked. Last thirty days was bonus. And until someone shows me a calendar reads different, twelve months and a year are one and the same kind of thing. And the bet was for a year. So get yourself mended and get your ass out of here.
PK: There's someone I have to see first.
JOCKO: What do you want to go pressin' it for? You're rich, lad. You're whole. Why do you want to go pressin' it?
PK: Because I want to know.
JOCKO: Know what? That the man has
PK: No worries. The luckier you are, the longer you last. The longer you last, the luckier you are.
RASPUTIN: Checkmate! Checkmate!
JOCKO: There's an end to everything, boyo. Even luck.
PK: Well I guess this is goodbye, my friend. I'll never forget you.
RASPUTIN: PK. Botha. Nyet, nyet. Nyet,
PK: Take care, my friend.
RASPUTIN: PK. Botha. Nyet. Nyet. PK.
DRILLER: Who you lookin' for?
PK: Botha. The driller from stope number five.
DRILLER: He's at the bar.
PK: I wouldn't disturb him. There's a reason he's there and we're
DRILLER: I wouldn't disturb him. There's a reason he's there and we're
BARTENDER #1: PK. You're not going to go in,
PK: Is Botha the driller in there?
BARTENDER #2: Ja. Always we give him one hour alone before we open. You don't know this because you work at night, but it is the rule.
FRITZ: Ja. In one hour it is pffft.
PK: Are you Botha?
BOTHA: I'm PK. I worked your grizzly.
PK: I'm PK. I worked your grizzly.
BOTHA: Why'd you try to kill me?
PK: Why'd you try to kill me?
BOTHA: Because I missed the first time, Jaapie Botha.
PK: Jaapie Botha.
BOTHA: You remember, rooinek.
PK: Botha. It was thirteen years ago.
BOTHA: Because of you they expelled me. Because of you my father beat me. Threw me out from the farm. Because of you.
PK: Botha. We've made a lot of money working together. Let the past be the past.
BOTHA: You ruined the country, all you rooineks. You come and ruin the
PK: No, Jaapie Botha. It's hate ruining the country.
BOTHA: He swings at PK. PK ducks.
PK: Boer hate.
BOTHA: Our country.
GEEL PIET: First with the head, then with the heart. Little defeat big when little is smart.
PK: Want to see the wages of hate?
PK: Here. Here is what hate gets you.
PK: For my chicken. For Geel Piet. For Doc. For Mandoma. For Maria.
PK: For Africa.
THE END: Writers : Robert Mark Kamen
