"HUNTER": Written by Jim Thomas and John Thomas
"HUNTER": FADE IN 1 EXT. OUTER SPACE 1 The infinite blackness punctuated by a billion stars. As we slowly DESCEND through the varied shades of blue of the Earth's atmosphere, we HEAR the first strains of a haunting, Central American FLUTE, joined by a swelling background of JUNGLE SOUNDS. We descend further, through a lush JUNGLE CANOPY, backlit by a setting sun.
FADE IN: 1 EXT. OUTER SPACE 1
MAN: He's here. He turns back, lowering a BAMBOO SHADE, obscuring the On adjoining PADS, two other HELICOPTERS are VISIBLE; in the b.g. can be SEEN several concrete and THATCHWORK BUILDINGS, a secret command post disguised as a COASTAL
PHILIPS: ( with affection ) You're looking well, Dutch.
SCHAEFER: It's been a long time, General. They walk up the stairs, entering the palapa, leaving the other man on guard.
PHILIPS: ( growing serious ) We've got a real problem here, something right up your alley. Eighteen hours ago I was informed that one of our choppers, transporting three presidential cabinet members from this charming little country, was shot down. ( point to the circled area ) .The pilots radioed from the ground that they were all alive. Their position was fixed by the transponder beacon onboard the chopper. ( points )
PHILIPS: Eighteen hours ago I was informed that one of our choppers, transporting three presidential cabinet members from this charming little country, was shot down. .The pilots radioed from the ground that they were all alive. Their position was fixed by the transponder beacon onboard the chopper. Schaefer studies the map. He looks up at Philips.
SCHAEFER: That's over the border, That's the problem. Apparently they strayed off course. We're certain they've been captured by the guerrillas. Schaefer looks up, puffing lightly on the cigar.
PHILIPS: ( dead serious ) That's the problem. Apparently they strayed off course. ( pause ) We're certain they've been captured by the guerrillas.
SCHAEFER: ( quietly ) What have you got in mind, We figure we've got less than twenty-four hours to catch up with them. After that, there's not much hope. We want a rescue operation mounted tonight. That doesn't give you much time.
PHILIPS: We figure we've got less than twenty-four hours to catch up with them. After that, there's not much hope. We want a rescue operation mounted tonight. That doesn't give you much time. Another puff on the cigar.
SCHAEFER: What else it new? When do we leave? Philips looks at his watch.
PHILIPS: You lift off in three hours. There's one other thing.
SCHAEFER: What's that, General?
PHILIPS: Someone else will be going in with you. Schaefer stubbs out his cigar in an ashtray.
SCHAEFER: You know we don't work with outsiders, General.
VOICE: ( o.s. ) Who said anything about outsiders, Dutch?
DILLON: Last time we danced, it was Lieutenant, Schaefer. A grin breaks out across Schaefer's face.
SCHAEFER: Dillon, you son of a bitch. The two men step forward and simultaneous swing from the hip as it to land a punch.but their hands SLAP together in a gesture of friendship, their forearms bulging, testing each other's strength.
DILLON: ( warmly ) How you been, Dutch?
SCHAEFER: You've been pushing too many Pencils, Dillon. Had enough?
DILLON: ( grinning ) No way, old buddy.
SCHAEFER: You never did know when to They look into each other's faces, each remembering something from the past. A moment's hesitation and they quit the contest. They laugh, Dillon slapping Schaefer on the shoulder.
DILLON: That piece of work you guys pulled off at the Berlin embassy last week was really something. Blew the entry points on three floors and neutralized the opposition in eight seconds flat. Like the old days, Dillon.
SCHAEFER: Like the old days, Dillon.
DILLON: Also heard that you passed on that little job in Libya. Schaefer looks at Dillon, quietly considering him.
SCHAEFER: Wasn't my style. We're a rescue unit, not assassins. This must be good. Big shot from the CIA, leaves his desk to come back to the bush. What's so important?
DILLON: Those cabinet members are very important to our scope of operations in this part of the world. They're about to get squeezed. We can't let that happen. I needed someone who could get the job done, quick and quiet.no screw-ups. I needed the best. The best. So, I pulled a few strings at the State Department.and here we are.
SCHAEFER: Go on. Dillon goes to the map.
DILLON: The set-up is simple, Dutch. One day job. We pick up their trail at the chopper, run 'em down, grab the hostages and bounce back across the border before anyone knows we were there. You've done it a hundred times. Nothing out of the ordinary. Schaefer considers this.
SCHAEFER: And nothing we can't handle Philips breaks in.
PHILIPS: I'm afraid those are your orders, Major. Once you reach your objective, Dillon will evaluate the situation and take charge. Schaefer looks from Philips to Dillon. He still doesn't like it.
DILLON: Not to worry, Dutch. I haven't lost my edge. They've got a head start on us in some real tough country, otherwise, believe me, it's a piece of cake.
PHILIPS: Gentlemen, we're losing time. You'd better get your men Good luck, Major.
PILOT ONE: ( voice over ) Redbird Two, Two. Bearing south, three, five, zero, one o'ckock on the saddle ridge. ( voice over ) Roger, Blue Leader. Three, five, zero, on your move.
PILOT TWO: ( voice over ) Roger, Blue Leader. Three, five, zero, on your move.
HAWKINS: ( shouting ) Hey, Billy, how many marines does it take to eat a squirrel?
HAWKINS: Two. One to eat it and one to watch for cars. Hawkins laughs heartily at his joke.
RAMIREZ: ( shouting ) Get that stinkin' thing out of my face, Blain!
BLAIN: .bunch of slack-jawed faggots around here. .this stuff will put hair .make you a God-damned sexual ty-ran-toe-sore-ass. just like me. This brings a chorus of HOOTS and SHOUTS from the others. The helicopter makes another radical turn. Schaefer and Dillon, seated near the cockpit, communicate through HEADSETS, also linked to the pilot. They consult a TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP by RED PENLIGHTS.
DILLON: ( pointing to the map ) Our rendezvous points and radio freqs. are indicated and fixed. AWACS contact on four hour intervals.
SCHAEFER: Who's our back-up on this?
DILLON: ( grinning ) No such thing, old buddy. It's a one way ticket. Once we cross that border, we're on our own.
SCHAEFER: This gets better by the The PILOT and CO-PILOT are surrounded by an array of dimly lit GAUGES and SWITCHES. Before the Co-Pilot is a RADAR SCREEN and an INFRA-RED DISPLAY TERMINAL on which the TWO HELICOPTERS appear as HEAT SOURCES.
DILLON: ( icy ) Man, that's a real bad habit you've got.
DILLON: ( shouting to Schaefer ) You don't know how much I missed this, Dutch!!! Once you get this in your blood, you never get it out!!!
SCHAEFER: You never were all that smart.let's go!!! Schaefer signals. Men leap from the chopper.
RAMIREZ: The pilots have each got one round in the head. And whoever hit it stripped the shit out of it. Schaefer studies the clearing, eyes always moving, wary. He turns back, looking at the chopper.
SCHAEFER: Took 'em out with a heat seeker.
RAMIREZ: There's something else, Major.
SCHAEFER: I don't think that was any ordinary army taxi. Schaefer looks at him quizically.
RAMIREZ: I don't think that was any ordinary army taxi. Schaefer looks at him quizically.
RAMIREZ: .looks more like a surveillance bird to me. Dillon rappells down the line and approaches.
DILLON: Have you picked up their trail yet? Schaefer taps Ramirez on the shoulder and he moves away. Schaefer turns to Dillon:
SCHAEFER: Billy's on it. Heat seeker. Pretty sophisticated for half-asses mountain boys.
DILLON: They're getting better equipped every day. Bill approaches from the b.g.
BILLY: Major, looks like there were ten, maybe twelve guerrillas. Looks like they took some prisoners from the chopper. Then a different set of track, over there.
SCHAEFER: ( puzzled ) What do you mean?
BILLY: Six others, U.S. issue jungle boots. They came in from the north, then followed the guerrillas. Schaefer turns to Dillon.
SCHAEFER: Mean anything to you?
DILLON: Probably another rebel patrol. They operate in here all the time. Schaefer is obviously concerned about this. He turns to Billy.
SCHAEFER: Get ahead, see what you can find. Slow and easy.
SCHAEFER: What's he got?
RAMIREZ: Same business, guerrillas hauling two guys from the chopper.followed by men with American equipment. Ramirez seems concerned by this. Schaefer signals him to move on. Before he follows, Schaefer looks around: there's something dodgy about this. He goes. Over his head is a butterfly on a limb:
RAMIREZ: ( hoarse whisper ) Holy Mother.
SCHAEFER: ( to himself ) J.S. Davis, Captain, U.S. Army.
SCHAEFER: ( coldly ) Mac. Cut them down.
SCHAEFER: I knew this man. Green Berets, out of Fort Bragg. What the hell were they doing in here? You got any answers for this, Dillon?
DILLON: ( stunned ) Jesus.this is inhuman. ( to Schaefer ) Uh.I wasn't told of any operations in this area. They shouldn't have been here.
SCHAEFER: ( angry ) Well somebody sent them. ( seething ) Must have run into the guerrillas .Fucking animals.
RAMIREZ: ( seething ) Must have run into the guerrillas .Fucking animals.
MAC: ( spits ) Ain't no way for a soldier to ( looks at Blain ) Time to let 'ol 'painless' out of the bag.
SCHAEFER: What happened here, Billy? Billy looks at him, puzzled.
BILLY: Strange, Major. There was a firefight. Shooting in all I can't believe Jim Hopper walked into an ambush.
SCHAEFER: I can't believe Jim Hopper walked into an ambush.
BILLY: I don't believe he did, Sir. I couldn't find a single track. Just doesn't make sense.
SCHAEFER: What about the rest of Hopper's Billy shakes his head.
BILLY: ( uncomfortably ) No sign. They never left here ( pause ) It's like they just disappeared.
SCHAEFER: Stick with the guerilla trail. Let's get it over with. We move. Five meter spread. No sound. Blain feeds the magazine of BELTED-SHELLS into the weapon, cocking it. He looks up at Mac, his eyes cold, his face taut with anger.
BLAIN: Payback time. Blain hefts the Mini-gun to his hip as Mac draws back slightly on the breech bolt of the M-60, letting it They move on, Billy pausing to look at the jungle before disappearing into the foliage.
MAC: ( hissing; barely audible ) You're ghostin' on me, mother fokaaa!.I don't care who you are back in the world. You give away our position again and I'll bleed you quiet and leave your fuckin' ass right here. ( hisses; spits ) Got it?
BLAIN: Say, Bull. What's goin' down? We got movement?
MAC: No. Shithead with his trenchcoat and dee-coda-da ring was makin' enough noise to get us all waxed. I don't like that guy. Don't like him at my back. I ain't winding up like those bastards back there. Mac, sweating heavily, wipes the moisture from his brow with his finger. Blain pats the mini-gun affectionately.
BLAIN: I know what you mean, Bull, but don't sweat it, me and 'ol 'painless' here are watchin' the front door.
MAC: As always, bro. They do a gentle fist dap and smile warmly at each other. Two men who have seen it all, through a dozen no-win situations, and have lived to tell about it. Mac advances a few meters and signals slowly.
SCHAEFER: ( whispering; angry ) Just killed one of the prisoners. No time for invitations. We take them,
DILLON: ( to Hawkins ) Ready, kid?
DILLON: On your nine!!! Schaefer dives, hitting the ground as Dillon OPENS FIRE taking out the Guerrillas. Schaefer rolls to his feet, spins, firing the 203 grenade launcher, completely destroying the hut.
SCHAEFER: Stick around. Schaefer and Ramirez run towards the lower levels, side by side, firing as they go. They reach a door, Schaefer taking out an ATTACKING Guerrilla. Ramirez grabs the side of the door, shoots a look to Schaefer and throws it open. With Schaefer covering him, Ramirez takes a quick peak inside and then rushes into the room.
SCHAEFER: ( shouting ) ( to Hawkins ) Hawk, Get Con. Op. on the hook! Position and situation,
SCHAEFER: ( to Hawkins ) Hawk, Get Con. Op. on the hook! Position and situation,
HAWKINS: You got it, Major!
SCHAEFER: Any sign of the hostages?
MAC: ( nods ) We found 'em both, dead. And the gear from the chopper. If they're Central American, I'm a fuckin' Chinaman. By the looks of 'em, I'd say our cabinet minister and his aide are CIA. ( pause ) Another thing, Major, we were lucky.couple of those guys we waxed are Russians, military advisors by the look of it. Something big was about to happen here.
SCHAEFER: Good work, Mac. Clear the area, no traces. Get the men ready to move. Schaefer goes back into the room, looking down at the unconscious guerrilla, racking a round into the chamber, reloading his weapon. He kneels, staring into the FACE of a WOMAN, ANNA, dark, late twenties. Despite her blood and dirt-smeared face, she is beautiful.
SCHAEFER: ( closes eyes )
RAMIREZ: You're hit. You're bleedin', Blain looks briefly at the wound.
BLAIN: ( spits ) Ain't got time to bleed.
BLAIN: Son of a bitch's dug in like a Alabama tick. .jack us around all day.
RAMIREZ: Hell, dude, we don't have all Ramirez immediately rolls into the line of fire, BLASTING six RAPID-FIRE shots on a HIGH-ARC trajectory towards the rocks. Blain reacts.
BLAIN: Shit, Pancho!!! Blain dives against the protective cover of the rock wall, covering his head. Ramirez casually hops across, squatting next to Blain. They make What's your problem, dude? Before Blain can answer, Ramirez puts his fingers into his ears and grimaces just as. The entire hillside EXPLODES, blowing the Guerrillas into the air, a torrent of vegetation and earth raining down the cliff, obscuring Blain and Ramirez.
RAMIREZ: What's your problem, dude? Before Blain can answer, Ramirez puts his fingers into his ears and grimaces just as. The entire hillside EXPLODES, blowing the Guerrillas into the air, a torrent of vegetation and earth raining down the cliff, obscuring Blain and Ramirez.
DILLON: This is beautiful! More than we ever thought. We got the REVISED - "HUNTER" - 4/17/86 35 Schaefer turns, striding slowly to Dillon, handing him the paper he is holding.
SCHAEFER: I think this is the one you want. Dillon reads it.
DILLON: ( reacting ) Two days.that's all we had. In two days, three hundred of these bastards would have been equipped with all this. After they crossed the border, it would have taken a year to stop them. ( looks up ) We've averted a major guerrilla invasion, Dutch.
SCHAEFER: ( slow; deliberate ) It was all bullshit. All of it. From the start.you set us up, got us in here to do your dirty work.
DILLON: ( angry ) That's right, I set you up. You're a veteran at this, Dutch, I had to.
SCHAEFER: Why us?
DILLON: Because I told you, you're the best. I knew you could do it but I couldn't get you in here without a cover story.
SCHAEFER: What story did you give to Davis?
DILLON: We've been lookin' for this place for months. The chopper must have gotten close when they got shot down. Hopper was sent in to get my men. He was just doing his job. When he disappeared I had to clean this up, I had to stop there bastards. We were so close, we couldn't quit. We couldn't sleep through this one. I needed you, Dutch, can't you see that?
DILLON: To invade a foreign country, illegally? You lied, Dillon. Stacked the odds against us. Set us up. You could have gotten us all killed. You used to be one of us, Dillon, someone I could trust with my life.
DILLON: We've been through a lot together Dutch. When we were together, no one could stop us, the hottest Goddamned team the army ever saw. But things changed, I woke up. We're fighting them in a dozen Goddamned countries. It's a fight we can't lose, Dutch. We're all expendable assets, can't you see that? Schaefer takes the paper from Dillon's hands.
SCHAEFER: That's your problem, Dillon. You always did put ambition before the lives of your men. My men are not expendable. I don't do this kind of work. This is your dirty little war, not mine.
HAWKINS: Schaefer turns away from Dillon and steps through the doorway into the palapa as Anna moans again, MUMBLING something in Spanish. Dillon kneels, beside her.
DILLON: ( quietly; in Spanish ) Are you all right?
HAWKINS: ( urgent ) Major, we stepped into some real shit here. I got a hook-up with aerial surveillance.
SCHAEFER: ( CONTINUED )
HAWKINS: ( nods ) Guerrillas swarming like flies all over the place. Can't be more then one, maybe two miles away. Place is going down, Major.
SCHAEFER: How much time?
HAWKINS: Half an hour, maybe less. Schaefer touches him on the shoulder.
SCHAEFER: ( urgently ) Tell Mac we move in five.
DILLON: ( o.s. ) She goes with us.
DILLON: She's too valuable. She's got to know their whole network. The whole set up. We take her with us.
SCHAEFER: We take her and she'll give away our position, every chance she gets. No prisoners, Dillon. Dillon grabs the handset from Hawkin's radio, shoving it at Schaefer.
DILLON: You're still under orders, Dutch. You want to make the call, or should I? Schaefer looks at the handset. Then at Dillon, he knows Dillon's won.
SCHAEFER: I'm getting my men out of this damn jungle, Dillon. She's your baggage. You fall behind, you're on your own.
SCHAEFER: This place is too hot for a pick-up. They won't touch us until we're over the border. We can lift at LZ 49, Spotter plane says we're cut off. Except for this valley. Billy shakes his head, following the CONTOUR LINES of the rugged terrain.
BILLY: Looks bad, Major. It's gonna be a real bitch. If we follow above the river and then down, here, at this canyon, we might find a way out. Schaefer turns to Ramirez, kneeling close by.
SCHAEFER: ( decisively ) Not much choice. Pancho, take the lead. Double time it.
SCHAEFER: Lock n' load, watch your ass. Blain moves out, swinging the Mini-gun in front of him as he goes.
ANNA: ( in Spanish ) You touch me again, pig, and I will cut off your balls!
DILLON: ( in Spanish ) It's a long walk back, make it easy on yourself.
MAC: ( quietly ) Hey, Dillon, over here.
MAC: ( louder ) Dillon, over here.
DILLON: Yeah, what is it, Sergeant? MAc unsheathes his knife. He gives Dillon a cold look and turns him by the shoulders. Crawling across the PACK on Dillon's back is a huge SCORPION. Mac skeweres the scorpion with the tip of his blade, holding it before the wincing Dillon. Anna smirks, nodding to the writhing, stinging insect.
ANNA: ( in Spanish ) When my people catch you, you'll wish you were him.
DILLON: ( coolly )
MAC: ( coolly )
HUNTER: ( o.s.; filtered ) Dillon, over here.
HUNTER: ( o.s. ) Dillon, over here.
HUNTER: ( o.s. ) Dillon, over here.
MAC: I've seen some badass bush before, but nothin' like this, man. Little taste 'o home? Blain nods and pauses to rest, looking around him as Mac withdraws a small silver POCKET FLASK. He takes a nip, passing the flask to Blain who also takes a sip.
BLAIN: I hear you bro, this is some shit. Makes Cambodia look like Kansas. Lose your way in here, man, you be in some kinda hurt. Blain hands back the flask, Mac replacing it inside his vest. They do their hand dap, looking warily behind them before they move on.
DILLON: ( urgently ) Shit. Come on.
RAMIREZ: ( in Spanish ) Don't try it.
RAMIREZ: ( coolly ) You should put her on a leash, Agent Man. If you can't handle her, just say the word.
DILLON: ( cold; in Spanish ) Try that again. Please.
DILLON: Watch her. Before Ramirez can respond, Dillon slips into the undergrowth. Ramirez holds the knife on Anna, cautiously scanning around him for movement. Unseen by Ramirez, Anna's outstretched hands slowly tighten around a stout ROOT-BURL, lying loose on the He remains frozen and transfixed, staring into the treeline. Something is moving, fluid, silently and downward, into the forest. Billy remains rooted to the spot, lost in concentration.
SCHAEFER: What's got Billy so spooked?
MAC: Can't say, Major.been squirrely all mornin'. fuckin' weird.sometimes I think that nose of his is too good.smells things that ain't there. Schaefer signals for Mac to cover him and then moves low and quiet towards Billy. Dillon appears, looking to Mac for an explanation. Mac ignores him, concentrating on the jungle. Dillon looks forward at. Billy, his eyes riveted to the capony above, as he unconsciously reaches to his throat, grasping a LEATHER POUCH, secured to his neck by a thong. He fingers the MEDICINE BAG talisman.
SCHAEFER: What is it.? Billy, rigid, does not respond. Schaefer forcefully jerks his around to face him.
SCHAEFER: Billy.What the hell's wrong with you?
BILLY: ( low ) Something.in the trees.
BILLY: ( whispers ) Can you see anything. ( points )
SCHAEFER: 73 EXT. HUNTER'S P.O.V. - DAY 73
SCHAEFER: What do you think.?
BILLY: It's nothing.
HAWKINS: She looks at the weapon, to Hawkins and then, hopefully, to the jungle. She stops, staring hard down the alleyway. Something.suddenly she sees it!
ANNA: ( in Spanish ) Look out, behind you!!!
SCHAEFER: It's not her blood. Ramirez emerges from the jungle carrying Hawkins' MP-5 and radio. He approaches, dumping the equipment on the ground.
RAMIREZ: Major, you'd better take a look at this.
SCHAEFER: ( oddly ) I can't tell.
RAMIREZ: ( oddly ) I can't tell.
SCHAEFER: ( shocked ) What in God's name.?
RAMIREZ: I think it's Hawkins.
SCHAEFER: Where the hell is his body?
RAMIREZ: There's no sign of it.
SCHAEFER: Ramirez, ask her what Ramirez drops to one knee and talks softly to her in SPANISH. She mutters incoherently in Spanish, still dazed, shaking her head. Dillon listens closely to her response. Ramirez turns to Schaefer. He seems She says.the jungle came alive, and took him.
RAMIREZ: She says.the jungle came alive, and took him.
DILLON: That isn't what she said. she said. .she doesn't make sense.
RAMIREZ: ( growing angry ) Couple of sappers been trailing us all the way from the camp, Major. Billy heard them. She set us up, ran for it.They were waiting. I should've wasted the bitch when I had the chance.
SCHAEFER: ( quietly ) Why didn't they take the radio and his weapon? ( pause ) Why didn't she escape?
DILLON: ( grimly; remembering ) They did the same thing to
SCHAEFER: ( urgent; to the others ) I want him found. Sweep pattern and double back. Fifty
BLAIN: ( whispers ) Come on in you fuckers.come on in. 'ol 'painless' is waitin'.
MAC: ( shouting ) Contact, 30 Right!!!
MAC: ( confused ) I.saw it.
SCHAEFER: You saw what?
MAC: ( still dazed ) I saw it.
SCHAEFER: ( to himself ) ( puzzled ) .Just like the others.no powder burns, no shrapnel.
DILLON: The wound all fused, cauterized.what the hell did this? Schaefer stands, looking at the body. In the b.g. Anna drifts away from the group.
SCHAEFER: ( to Mac ) ( demanding; angry ) Mac! Mac! Look at me! ( urgent ) Mac, who did this? I don't know. Goddamn it, something.I saw something/.
SCHAEFER: ( demanding; angry ) Mac! Mac! Look at me! ( urgent ) Mac, who did this? I don't know. Goddamn it, something.I saw something/.
SCHAEFER: ( urgent ) Mac, who did this? I don't know. Goddamn it, something.I saw something/.
MAC: I don't know. Goddamn it, something.I saw something/. Ramirez runs from the jungle, breathing hard, shaking his head.
RAMIREZ: Nothing. The same thing. Not a fucking trace. No bodies, blood, anything.
SCHAEFER: ( quietly ) We're losing the light. Mac, I want a defensive position above this ridge, mined with everything we're got.
MAC: Schaefer looks down at Blain's body. He turns to Ramirez and Billy.
SCHAEFER: Put him in his poncho and liner and carry him back. We'll bury him in the morning.
MAC: I'll take him.
MAC: We've got most of the flares, frags. and two claymores just outside. Nothin's comin' close to here without trippin' on somethin'.
SCHAEFER: Thank you, Sergeant. Mac starts to go but Schaefer places his hand on his I'm sorry, Bull. It's never easy. He was a good soldier.
SCHAEFER: I'm sorry, Bull. It's never easy. He was a good soldier.
MAC: ( hardened ) The best friend I ever had.
MAC: ( softly ) Good-bye, Bro.
DILLON: ( to phone ) Blazer One, say again.
BLAZER ONE: ( voice over ) Red Fox, I say again. Your request for extraction denied. Your area still compromised. Proceed to Sector 3000 for prisoner extraction, Priority Alpha. Next contact at 1030 ( to phone; angry ) Roger, Blazer One. 1030 hours.damn, bastards.
DILLON: ( to phone; angry ) Roger, Blazer One. 1030 hours.damn, bastards.
DILLON: ( angry; shocked ) We're still too far in, they won't risk coming in for us.
SCHAEFER: Expendable assets, Dillon. Seems Langley is never around when you need them.
DILLON: I can accept that, it comes with the job.
SCHAEFER: Bullshit. You're just like the rest of us. Dillon glares back. Schaefer leaves, lost in thought. Ramirez looks up at the impenetrable canopy.
RAMIREZ: Shit load o' good a chopper'd do us in here anyway. Dillon turns to Mac.
DILLON: Mac. Who hit us today? Mac is still obviously feeling the anger and bitterness of the mystifying event.
MAC: Don't know, only saw one of 'em. Camouflaged. He was .Those fucking eyes.
DILLON: ( abruptly; pushing ) What, Sergeant?
MAC: ( returning; angry ) Those eyes.disappeared. But I know one thing, Major. ( pause ) .I drew down and fired right at it. Capped-off two hundred rounds and then the Mini-gun; the full pack. Nothin'.nothin' on this earth could have lived.not at that range.
MAC: I've got the first watch. Mac departs. Dillon watches Mac as he creeps forward to the sentry position. He turns to Ramirez.
DILLON: Ask her again. What did she see? What happened to Ramirez turns to Anna. They talk quietly in Spanish, Dillon watching, listening carefully. Ramirez turns back to Dillon.
RAMIREZ: ( interpreting ) She says the same thing. It was the jungle. ( whispering; imploring ) You know something Billy, what is it?
RAMIREZ: ( whispering; imploring ) You know something Billy, what is it?
BILLY: I'm scared. Ramirez is frightened by this.
RAMIREZ: ( shaken ) Bullshit. You ain't afraid of no man.
BILLY: There's something out there, waiting for us.it ain't no man. Billy turns away, moving a short distance away, taking up his position. Dillon looks after him and then into the blackness of the jungle canopy. Dillon speaks to He's losing his cool. There's nothing out there but a couple of men that we're going to have to take down. Despite his words, there is an edge of doubt in his voice. Schaefer returns. He's overheard this exchange. He's holding the group of DOG TAGS taken from Davis' men. He holds them up for Dillon to see.
DILLON: He's losing his cool. There's nothing out there but a couple of men that we're going to have to take down. Despite his words, there is an edge of doubt in his voice. Schaefer returns. He's overheard this exchange. He's holding the group of DOG TAGS taken from Davis' men. He holds them up for Dillon to see.
SCHAEFER: You still don't get it, do you Dillon? He took Davis. and now he wants us.
MAC: ( distant; whispering ) It's the same kinda jungle, Bro, same moon. ( pause ) .a real number ten night. Remember Bro? Only you and me, the only one's out of the whole fuckin' platoon who made it out.
MAC: .we walked out on top of 'em. Not a scratch, not a fuckin' scratch. No fuckin' chili-choker got to you, Bro.you were just too good. He ponders this a moment.
MAC: .I promise you this, Bro. whoever he is, I hope he's plannin' to hit us again. .'cause he's got my name on 'em.
MAC: Got the motherfucker. As the flare breaks through the canopy, dying out in great flickering bursts, the man stare down into the foxhole. A huge, jungle BOAR lies mutilated in a pool of blood, still quivering in the final throes of death. The flare dies out. Mac, shaking from adrenalin, breathing heavily, looks down at the dying animal.
MAC: ( incredulous ) A pig.just a fucking pig.
RAMIREZ: Holy shit, Mac. Nearby, unnoticed by the men, Anna stoops, her hands still bound, picking up an MP-5 from the ground. She turns, looking for an avenue of escape, running for the jungle. But the forest looks foreboding and sinister. She stops, staring at the jungle, the moonlight reflected off leaves like a thousand eyes. For a brief second she imagines she can see the Hunter's eyes, crashing towards her, the shifting patterns of light and dark making the jungle seem to strobe, like it is about to rush in at her. She freezes, paralyzed by fear, by her memories of the attack. She drops the MP-5 to the ground. Back at the foxhole, Schaefer and Ramirez help the still shaken Mac from the hole. Schaefer looks at Mac, at the huge gash across his chest.
SCHAEFER: Get a field dressing on that right away. Suddenly he remembers, Anna.
SCHAEFER: Where's the girl? They all turn, ready to move and then stop. Coming forth from the shadows Anna appears, still frightened, seeking the security of the soldiers. From the darkness nearby, Billy's VOICE in a hoarse
BILLY: ( o.s.; urgently ) Major, over here.
BILLY: The body.it's gone.
RAMIREZ: Came in through the trip wires, took it right out from under our noses. Anna appears between Schaefer and Ramirez, staring down at the empty, blood-soaked body bag. She looks up, into Schaefer's eyes.
BILLY: Boar set off the trip flare, Major. No other tracks. Schaefer kneels and examines the thin, well hidden WIRE. He stands, looking around the camp.
RAMIREZ: How could anyone get through this, carry Blain out, right under our noses without leavin' a trace?
SCHAEFER: He knows our defenses.
RAMIREZ: Why didn't he try to kill one of us last night? Schaefer looks at him.
SCHAEFER: He came back for the body. He's killing us, one at a Schaefer turns and looks at Billy, asking with his eyes for a viable explanation.
BILLY: Like a Hunter. Schaefer stares at him, the words sinking in. He looks up, reconstructing in his mind the possible events of last night, his eyes following the tree line, tracing the path of the intruder as he might have travelled through the trees and down to the ground. He looks up at Billy.
SCHAEFER: He uses the trees.
SCHAEFER: Yesterday. What did you see? She stares back at him.
DILLON: You're wastin' your time.
SCHAEFER: No more games. She looks at him a long moment, and then answers in I don't know what it was. Dillon does a double take. Schaefer continues to look at Anna. He wasn't surprised: he knew it yesterday.
ANNA: I don't know what it was. Dillon does a double take. Schaefer continues to look at Anna. He wasn't surprised: he knew it yesterday.
SCHAEFER: Go on.
ANNA: It changes colors, like the chameleon. It uses the jungle.
DILLON: ( derisively ) Shit, you trying to tell me Blain and Hawkins were killed by a fucking lizard? Don't listen to her. Its's a psych-job. Two, maybe three of them, that's all. We keep our cool, out-think them 'til we're across the
SCHAEFER: What's you name? She looks back into his eyes.
ANNA: Anna. He's hunting us. You know that? She nods. With a sudden movement he slices through her bonds.
SCHAEFER: Anna. He's hunting us. You know that? She nods. With a sudden movement he slices through her bonds.
DILLON: What the hell do you think you're doing?
SCHAEFER: We're going to need everyone.
DILLON: What are you talking about? We'll be out of here in ten We're not going.
SCHAEFER: We're not going.
DILLON: That rendezvous is ten maybe twelve miles, at most! We're almost home. But the chopper won't wait. Schaefer turns to face him.
SCHAEFER: Dillon.This thing doesn't care who we are, who she is. We make a stand or there won't be anyone left to make that Dillon stares back, not wanting to hear what he already knows to be true. Anna touches Schaefer's arm.
ANNA: There is something else. When the big man was killed, you must have wounded it. It's blood was on the leaves.
SCHAEFER: If it bleeds, we can kill it.
DILLON: ( straining ) I'm tellin' you, this little 'boy scout' stunt is a Godamned waste of time. ( stands ) We've got to get the hell out of here, now, while we've still got the chance.
SCHAEFER: He'll be looking for the trip wires. If we're lucky, he won't see this.
DILLON: Now what, Dutch. You going to send your mystery guest an Schaefer turns, there is a touch of fear in Dillon's You're catching on, Dillon. Schaefer returns to his work on the net and trigger.
SCHAEFER: You're catching on, Dillon. Schaefer returns to his work on the net and trigger.
ANNA: ( hushed ) When I was little we find a man ( she struggles for the words ) like a butcher. The old ones in the village cross themselves and whisper crazy things. 'Demonio, cazador de trofoes.Only the hottest times of the hottest years.' Crazy things.This year is grows hot. And we begin finding our men. We find them sometimes without their skin. Sometimes.much, much worse. Cazador de trofoes.means the demon who takes
DILLON: ( o.s. ) What'll you try next cheese?
DILLON: ( low; whispered ) Satisfied? Now let's get the hell
DILLON: What is God's name.? The Hunter utters an unearthly SNARL and HISS from his open mouth as an instant later his camouflage resumes and he vanishes from sight.a rapid, furtive movement through the trees.
SCHAEFER: Schaefer hurriedly ejects the spent clip from the M-203, slamming in a new one. He shouts an order to Billy.
SCHAEFER: ( to Billy ) Get Ramirez on his feet! Take the girl and get the hell out of here!
DILLON: No way, Dutch. I'm going. You get these people and get the hell out of here.
SCHAEFER: This isn't your style, Dillon.
DILLON: Guess I've picked up some bad habits from you, Dutch. Now don't argue with me, you know I'm right. Get to that chopper and hold it for us. We'll be along.
SCHAEFER: You know you can't win this Dillon stares at him.
DILLON: You know me, Dutch, I never did know when to quit. Dillon turns and begins to move out.
SCHAEFER: Dillon turns. Picking up the spare MP-5, Schaefer tosses the weapon to Dillon, who grabs it with one hand. They share a look, knowing this is farewell.
SCHAEFER: I'll see you there.
DILLON: Right behind you. Hefting both weapons at the hip he runs into the jungle after Mac. Schaefer watches him leave. He breaks and goes to Ramirez, attended by Anna and Billy, who is now sitting up, holding his ribs and gasping for breath.
BILLY: He's busted up, bad, Major.
RAMIREZ: ( gasping ) I can make it, Major.
SCHAEFER: Come on, Poncho, we're getting out of here. Billy, take the radio, leave the rest. Come on!
MAC: ( whispered ) Come on, you motherfucker!
VOICE: ( o.s. ) Dillon, over here.
VOICE: ( o.s.; barely audible ) Dillon, over here.
DILLON: ( whispering ) ( whispering; close ) Out there. Past the rocks. can you see it?
MAC: ( whispering; close ) Out there. Past the rocks. can you see it?
DILLON: ( whispering ) I see it! ( pause ) We're gonna take this thing.
DILLON: Take a position over there. I'll work around towards you. When I flush him, you nail .Right, I got a score to settle for the Bro.
MAC: ( a mean look ) .Right, I got a score to settle for the Bro.
DILLON: We both got scores to settle. Dillon silently disappears into the jungle, Mac watching him go. Mac makes his way toward the rock outcropping, working his way between the rocks and the vines. He takes up a position and scans the jungle before him.
DILLON: ( whispering )
SCHAEFER: ( screaming )
SCHAEFER: ( CONTINUED )
SCHAEFER: Get back, into the rocks! Schaefer sweeps Anna behind him as Ramirez struggles to his feet. Together they back up, covering the ridgeline over which they've just come. Suddenly, from one side, near Ramirez, the Hunter bursts from the jungle, Ramirez, seeing the Hunter, spins raising his weapons to fire. Ramirez SEES the Hunter's onrushing face, still in camouflage, a montage of organic textures and colors, his yellow eyes burning. Whipping the MP-5 is the direction of the Hunter he is hurled backwards from the impact of the Hunter's weapon, his neck gushing BLOOD, the MP-5 flying through the air, landing in front of Anna. She moves for the weapon. The Hunter, with unearthly speed, turns towards Anna, as Schaefer starts to spin, SEEING the Hunter about to strike as Anna dives for the weapon. Schaefer lunges kicking the MP-5 out of Anna's reach.
SCHAEFER: ( to Anna ) Run! Get to the chopper!
SCHAEFER: You couldn't see me. He looks up, out into the failing light, at the treeline of the deepening forest, realizing that fate has given him a fighting chance. Slowly a look of vengeance and hatred crosses over his face.
SCHAEFER: One chance, that's all.
ANNA'S VOICE: ( o.s.; filtered; in Spanish ) Look out, behind you!!!
ANNA'S VOICE: ( o.s.; in Spanish ) .Look out, behind you!
SCHAEFER: ( to himself )
SCHAEFER: ( louder )
HUNTER: ( o.s.; Mac's voice ) Dillon, over here.
SCHAEFER: Bleed, you bastard. His bow down, Schaefer follows the blood trail across the rock, edging alongside a huge vertical boulder. The blood trail stops. He takes another step forward, past a darkened ALCOVE. Schaefer spins, SEEING in the alcove the SURPRISED Hunter whirl and spring towards him. Schaefer in a bound closes the distance, savagely kicking the Hunter's arm. The WEAPON flies from the Hunter's hand CLATTERING to the rock. Before he can recover, Schaefer follows with a karate kick to the chest, hurling the Hunter to the ground, his back exposed. In a flash, Schaefer is standing over the Hunter, the bow drawn, poised, the blood from his open wound dripping onto the Hunter's back. The Hunter slowly rolls onto his back, REVEALING his face, his eyes bleached white in shock from the loss of blood. The Hunter's body, rippled out of control, trying desperately to orientate itself to the Who the hell are you.?
SCHAEFER: ( incredulous ) Who the hell are you.?
HUNTER: ( electronic; filtered ) ( improving ) .the hell. ( nearly perfect ) ( perfect )
PILOT: Holy, fuck, what was Orbit right.check it out! The helicopter levels out and heads toward the smoking, devastated site of the blast.
PHILIPS: Orbit right.check it out! The helicopter levels out and heads toward the smoking, devastated site of the blast.
ANNA: 238 EXT. HELICOPTERS - JUNGLE - DAY 238
NOOOOOO!!!!!!: 238 EXT. HELICOPTERS - JUNGLE - DAY 238
MEDIC: ( shaking his head ) Looks like he's been through hell.can't believe he's still alive. What the hell went on down there?
PHILIPS: If it hadn't been for her, he'd be dead now. That story she told us.I still can't believe He looks at Anna, her eyes meeting his, as if asking for an explanation. She looks at him a moment before turning back to Schaefer, staring at him as if he were risen from the dead. She looks into Schaefer's face, Schaefer returning her look, recognition passing between them. Anna extends her hand. Schaefer slowly reaches out, touching her fingers, then clasping her hand. Schaefer turns his eyes to stare out the open door, beyond the passing jungle below, out to the heavens. He turns back, looking at Anna, a faint smile crossing his face.they made it.
FADE OUT: THE END
THE END: Writers : Jim Thomas John Thomas
