PRETTY WOMAN: FINAL SCRIPT by Jonathan Frederick Lawton BLACK SCREEN
FINAL SCRIPT: by Jonathan Frederick Lawton
BLACK SCREEN: In white letters on the black screen :
TOUCHSTONE PICTURES: AND THEN : IN ASSOCIATION WITH SILVER SCREEN PARTNERS IV
PRESENTS: AND THEN : IN ASSOCIATION WITH SILVER SCREEN PARTNERS IV
PHILIP: A penny from the ear. How much for the rest ? Philip Stuckey, the host, walks behind the magician. Philip is a short man in his forties, with receding hair. He looks, at the same time, obsequious and domineering. His guests laugh at his joke. Philip moves toward a young man. The camera follows Philip.
PHILIP: Have you seen Edward ?
PHILIP: Well, my wife went to a lot of trouble : she called a He walks to a group of guest gathered around a large buffet table. Behind the table, the balustrade of the patio, and in the background, Hollywood Hills.
PHILIP: Excuse me, Ann. Howard, how are you ?
HOWARD: Philip, good. Hey, I understand Edward's taking over Morse Yeah, well, he's not here to get a suntan.
PHILIP: Yeah, well, he's not here to get a suntan.
HOWARD: Can I get in on it ?
PHILIP: Yeah. Call me.
HOWARD: When ?
PHILIP: Just call me. He turns to another guest and shake hands with him.
PHILIP: Uh, hi. I'm Philip Stuckey, Edward Lewis's lawyer.
THE GUEST: Hey, where's the guest of honor anyway ?
PHILIP: Well, if I know this fellow, he's probably off in a corner somewhere charming a very pretty lady. He turns to a charming lady talking with a man.
PHILIP: How are you ? He gives her a kiss.
EDWARD: I told my secretary to make the arrangements. Didn't she call you ? JESSICA ( voice over on the telephone ) Yes, she did. I speak to your secretary more than I speak to you.
EDWARD: I see. JESSICA ( voice over on the telephone ) I have my own life too, you know, Edward.
EDWARD: This is a very important week for me. I need you here. He walks to the large bay window, overlooking Hollywood Hills. JESSICA ( voice over on the telephone ) But you never give me any notice. You just think I'm at your beck and call.
EDWARD: I do not believe that you are at my beck and call. JESSICA ( voice over on the telephone ) Well, that's the way you always make me feel. Maybe I should just move out.
EDWARD: If that's what you want, yes. JESSICA ( voice over on the telephone ) All right, when you get back to New York, we'll discuss it.
EDWARD: Now is as good a time as any. JESSICA ( voice over on the telephone ) That's fine with me, Edward. Good-bye. She hangs up.
EDWARD: Good-bye, Jessica. Edward looks down, through the bay window, to the party still going on on the patio on the floor below. We can hear the chatter from the party.
YOUNG MAN: Phil suggested that maybe I should take a lawy.
EDWARD: Phil is just my lawyer, okay ?
YOUNG MAN: Yes, sir.
EDWARD: How did the Morse stock open at the Nikkei ?
YOUNG MAN: I don't know.
EDWARD: You don't know ? Tokyo opened maybe ninety minutes ago. You have to keep on top of these things, all right ?
YOUNG MAN: Two charming women walks near the two men. One of the woman turns toward Edward.
CHARMING WOMAN: Hello, Mr. Lewis.
EDWARD: Hi. How're you doing ? Edward shakes the woman's hand, who walks away, and turns back to the young blonde man.
EDWARD: I want this whole thing. wrapped up as soon as possible. I gotta get to New York by Sunday. I got tickets to the Yes, sir. He moves across the crowd of guests, and reaches a servant, who gives him his coat.
YOUNG MAN: Yes, sir. He moves across the crowd of guests, and reaches a servant, who gives him his coat.
SERVANT: Your coat, Mr. Lewis.
EDWARD: Thank you. He starts walking away with his coat in his hands, when he turns around to the sound of a feminine voice.
SUSAN: Edward !
EDWARD: Susan ! Susan is a beautiful woman, in her late thirties, wearing an elegant yellow silk blouse.
SUSAN: They kiss on both cheeks.
EDWARD: They kiss on both cheeks.
SUSAN: I was sorry to hear about Carter.
EDWARD: Oh, yeah. Thanks. Heard you got married. They start walking slowly toward the exit of the house, Edward's arm around Susan's waist.
SUSAN: Well. yeah. I couldn't wait for you ! She laughs.
EDWARD: Mmm. Mmm. Susan, tell me something.
SUSAN: Yes ? They stop walking, and Edward faces Susan.
EDWARD: When you and I were dating, did you speak to my secretary more than you spoke to me ?
SUSAN: She was one of my bridesmaids.
EDWARD: Hmm. Your husband's a very lucky guy. They kiss again on the cheeks.
EDWARD: Thanks, bye.
SUSAN: Thanks, bye.
PHILIP: Do you ?
PHILIP: Elizabeth, Philip's wife, walks rapidly toward Philip's armchair and taps him on the shoulder. Elizabeth is a red-hair woman in her forties. She is still nice-looking, and very elegantly dressed, but she doesn't have anymore the attraction that a younger woman can have on Philip.
ELIZABETH: He's leaving. Edward's leaving. Philip looks toward the entrance of the house, and stands up.
PHILIP: Excuse me.
PHILIP: Edward, where you going ?
EDWARD: You got the keys to your car ?
PHILIP: Why, what's wrong with the limo ?
EDWARD: Look, the limo is buried back there. Darryl can't get it Darryl, Edward's chauffeur, is reading a newspaper, next to another chauffeur. Darryl is a very tall and very strong-looking Afro-American man. He raises his hand to show his helplessness about the situation.
PHILIP: Please give me the keys. Philip gives his car keys to Edward.
EDWARD: Please give me the keys. Philip gives his car keys to Edward.
PHILIP: All right, look. I don't think you should drive. You're a little excited. Don't drive my car. Let me work something out here. Philip runs toward the Japanese valets.
PHILIP: Fellas, what kind of a system is this ? Can you move these cars out of here ? Meanwhile, Edward has seated himself in the driver seat of the Lotus Esprit. Philip comes back to him as Edward closes the door of the car.
PHILIP: Look, Edward. Edward. Uh, are you familiar with a stick shift ?
EDWARD: Uh, yeah.
PHILIP: Have you driven a shift ?
EDWARD: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
PHILIP: Listen, all right. Just be ginger with it. Don't. We hear the gears of the manual box clashing under Edward's unexperienced hand.
PHILIP: It's a new car. Don't, uh. Just don't.
EDWARD: Okay. I can do it. Tires squeal as the car rushes forward. The Japanese valets look up at the noise. Edward has stopped after a couple of feet, and Philip runs to the driver's door.
PHILIP: Edward ! Give me a break, please !
EDWARD: I love this car.
PHILIP: I love it too. Look, you don't even know where you're going. You're gonna get lost in the dark ! The car rushes forward. Tires squeal as Edward accelerate down the hill road. The sky is slightly darker. Night is falling.
LYRICS: I don't need to fall at your feet. Just 'cause you cut me to the bone. And I won't miss the way that you kiss me. The sky is getting darker, and apparently, Edward doesn't know his way very well around Hollywood Hills. Long shot on the famous «HOLLYWOOD» sign up on Hollywood Hills Back to the car driving on the roads of Hollywood Hills. Aerial shot of the car coming to a dead end in a parking lot. EDWARD ( voice over ) Oh, shit. The car backs up.
LYRICS: We were never carved in stone. If I don't listen to the talk of the town. Then maybe I can fool myself. I'll get over you I know I will. I'll pretend my ship's not sinking. And I'll tell myself I'm over you. The overview now shows Hollywood Boulevard.
LYRICS: 'Cause I'm the king of wishful thinking.
PROSTITUTE: Well, here I am.
LYRICS: Well, I'm just goin' to school like I'm real, real cool. Gotta dance like a fool Got the message.
LYRICS: And I gotta be a wild one Ooh, yeah. I'm a wild one. Close-Up on the woman's hand pulling the zipper up along the side of the boot.
LYRICS: Gonna break it loose. Gonna keep on moving wild. Close-Up on the face of the woman, putting mascara on her eyelashes. The woman is named Vivian Ward, and her head is covered by a blonde wig.
LYRICS: Gonna keep on swinging, baby I'm a real wild child.
LYRICS: Gonna meet all my friends. Gonna have myself a ball. Gonna tell my friends. Gonna tell them all.
LYRICS: That I'm a wild one. Ooh, yeah I'm a wild one. Vivian opens a window and gets out of the room.
LYRICS: Gonna break the news. Gonna keep on moving wild. Gonna keep on swinging, baby. I'm a real wild child. Vivian starts going down the emergency stairway.
LYRICS: I'm a real wild one and I like wild fun. In a world going crazy everything seems hazy. Medium shot. Vivian walks though a gap in the wire fence behind the hotel, and walks away on the street. The camera tilts slightly up and we see a painted inscription on the wall of the hotel that says «HOTEL - APTS».
LYRICS: I'm a wild one. Ooh, yeah, I'm a wild one. Gonna break the news Gonna keep on moving wild.
LYRICS: Gonna keep on swinging, baby I'm a real wild child. End of credits. The camera pans around and comes down to street level. The music fades out. We hear the voice of an Afro-American man yelling. THE AFRO-AMERICAN ( voice over ) Welcome to Hollywood ! Everybody comes to Hollywood got a dream. What's your dream ? What's your dream ? A young man with a red T-shirt and a white cap crosses the boulevard on a skateboard. He reaches the sidewalk and gets lost in the crowd. We see the Afro-American man. He is wearing a flashy printed shirt. He crosses the boulevard coming toward us.
SKATEBOARD MAN: Have a good one. He jumps on his skateboard and rolls away. He passes Vivian who is walking toward us. With the street lights, we get a better view of Vivian. She is a young woman in her early twenties. She is very tall and slim. She is a beautiful woman, even though her prostitute outfit and heavy make-up makes her a little less beautiful than she actually is. She is wearing a red jacket and a man's very large cap on her blonde wig. Underneath the jacket she is wearing her very short sleeveless white top, which is attached to her also very short blue skirt with a big metal ring. She is carrying a big bag strapped on her shoulder. A WOMAN ( voice over ) What happened ? A MAN ( voice over ) Some chick. She bought it over there. Medium shot just a little further on the street. A young plain- cloth policeman is showing his badge to an afro-american man.
THE POLICEMAN: Detective Albertson. What do you know about that girl ?
THE POLICEMAN: Come on, guy. We just pulled her out of a Dumpster in the back. Who was her pimp ? The camera follows Vivian, but we keep hearing what the two men are saying. THE AFRO-AMERICAN ( voice over ) Cocaine her pimp. She a strawberry. She be out on these streets day in, day out, trading her sorry self for some Vivian stops, and looks at something we don't see on the sidewalk. She turns her head away, not feeling well because of what she has just seen. THE POLICEMAN ( voice over ) And what do you do ? Back to the two men.
THE POLICEMAN: Hey, hey, hey ! Excuse me ! Excuse me ! What are you, from the press ?
THE POLICEMAN: Oh, I don't believe this. Do you. I got tourists photographing the body, Al. The uniformed policeman starts pulling the tourists away. Close-Up shot on a lit sign that says «The Blue Banana Club», Full shot from across the street, showing the entrance of the club, with the sign, that we've just seen, above the door. WOMAN ( voice over ) What happened ? ANOTHER WOMAN ( voice over ) Man !
LYRICS: In a world that can be so insane. I don't think it's very strange for me to be in love with you. Vivian crosses the dance floor and stops near a staircase leading to the upper floor. She looks around, visibly looking for someone.
LYRICS: I wanna know more than your brain. Vivian walks to the bar. The bartender is an older man, nicknamed Hey, Pops, has Kit been in here ?
VIVIAN: Hey, Pops, has Kit been in here ?
POPS: Upstairs in the poolroom. Vivian goes to the staircase and start walking upstairs.
LYRICS: Not something that I respected. And now I smile for your affection. We have made a soul connection.
LYRICS: Just for whom does your bell toll. Don't be cruel. Show me your soul. Kit suddenly realizes that someone is standing near her and looking down at her. She stops combing her hair and looks up. She takes her glasses off and smiles.
KIT: Yo, Viv ! Vivian doesn't smile back at her, and looks even a bit angry.
VIVIAN: Is it all gone ? Instead of answering her friend's question, she points to the people around her.
KIT: Carlos, you know my roommate, Vivian. This is Angel. That's the Dude.
VIVIAN: I know everybody ! Is it all gone, Kit ?
KIT: Carlos sold me some great shit. We just had this party. I was the hostess.
VIVIAN: I can't believe you bought drugs with our rent. What is going on with you, Kit ? Vivian grabs Kit's arm and makes her stand up.
KIT: I needed a little pick-me-up.
VIVIAN: Well, we need rent money ! Carlos stands up and faces Vivian. He is a young Latino man.
CARLOS: Yo, calm down, chica. She only owes me 200 more.
KIT: Carlos !
VIVIAN: Another 200 dollars ?
KIT: That was from way before.
CARLOS: That's right, 200, Vivian. But if you wanna work off her money with me, we can work something out.
KIT: That's a very sweet offer, Carlos, but not now. She grabs Vivian's arm and leads her to the staircase.
KIT: Come on, Viv. Come downstairs.
VIVIAN: Work out. Work out what ? What are we gonna work out ? When they are gone, the girl named «Angel» looks at Carlos.
ANGEL: You really like her, Carlos ? The music fades out.
VIVIAN: You took it while I was sleeping ?
KIT: You were unavailable for consultation. Kit walks to the bar, and makes Vivian follow her.
KIT: Hey, let's go. Snack ! Snack ! She has reached the bar and starts picking bits of food in plates on the counter.
KIT: Besides, it's my apartment.
VIVIAN: Yeah, well, I have to live there too, Kit.
KIT: Look, you came here. I gave you some money. I gave you a place to stay. Close Up on Kit's hands picking food ( olives, onions, cherries. ) in the snack plates, and putting them on a paper napkin.
KIT: .and some valuable vocational advice. He was on my case. I had to give him something. Back to the two girls behind the bar.
KIT: So don't irritate me.
POPS: This ain't a buffet, Kit. Kit moves around Vivian, sits on a stool at the bar, and starts Irritate you ? Irritate you ? I just saw a girl pulled out of a Dumpster. She sits down on another stool.
VIVIAN: Irritate you ? Irritate you ? I just saw a girl pulled out of a Dumpster. She sits down on another stool.
KIT: I know. Skinny Marie. But. she was a. a flake. She was a crack head. Dominic was trying to straighten her out for We hear people shouting in the background and glass being broken. The two girls turns their heads around for a second and then come back to their conversation at the bar. WOMAN ( voice over ) Leave her alone ! MAN ( voice over ) Leave her alone ! WOMAN ( voice over ) Come on, Blake !
VIVIAN: Don't you want to get out of here ?
KIT: Get out of where ? Where the fuck you wanna go ?
THE TRAMP: Aah, nothing but garbage. Full shot on the street, seen from the other side of the street. The Lotus Esprit stops at the tramp's level. EDWARD ( voice over ) Uh, excuse me. The tramp lifts his head.
THE TRAMP: Huh ? EDWARD ( voice over ) Can you tell me how to get to Beverly Hills ?
THE TRAMP: You're here ! Close Up shot on Edward's face behind the wheel on his car. THE TRAMP ( voice over ) That's Sylvester Stallone's house right there. He snickers. Back to the full shot of the street with the Lotus and the tramp behind it. EDWARD ( voice over ) Thank you.
THE TRAMP: You're welcome. The car moves away.
KIT: Hey, yo, Rachel.
RACHEL: What ?
KIT: Yeah. You see the stars on the sidewalk, babe ? She is mentioning the stars of the Walk of Fame, embedded in the sidewalk of the boulevard.
RACHEL: Well, Vivian and me, we work Bob Hope, we work the Ritz Brothers, we work Fred Astaire, we work all the way down to Ella Fitzgerald. This is our turf. We got seniority. You better get off our corner.
KIT: Well, Vivian and me, we work Bob Hope, we work the Ritz Brothers, we work Fred Astaire, we work all the way down to Ella Fitzgerald. This is our turf. We got seniority. You better get off our corner.
RACHEL: Forgive me. I was just taking a rest here. Besides, she's Yeah. Well, I'm old, so go rest up by Monty Hall or Esther Esther Williams ! Where you belong !
KIT: Yeah. Well, I'm old, so go rest up by Monty Hall or Esther Esther Williams ! Where you belong !
RACHEL: Esther Williams ! Where you belong !
KIT: Esther Williams ! Where you belong !
RACHEL: Back off, Kit. You know, you're really becoming a grouch. She walks away on the boulevard. Kit turns toward Vivian.
KIT: Am I really a grouch ?
VIVIAN: Yes. Sometimes.
KIT: Well, just 'cause I'm hungry. I'm gonna go get something to We hear someone whistling, and then : MAN ( voice over ) Hey, girls. Kit turns toward the boulevard, where the voice is coming from.
KIT: Hey, yo, baby ! Medium shot on an open convertible red car driving along the boulevard. In the car, three young men, two in the front, one in the back. The man sitting next to the driver, yells to the girls.
KIT: Dream on !
VIVIAN: It's looking really slow tonight. She takes her cap off.
KIT: Yeah, well. maybe we should get a pimp, you know. Carlos really digs you.
VIVIAN: And then he'll run our lives and take our money. No.
KIT: You're right. We say who, we say when, we say how much.
VIVIAN: Do you think I look like Carol Channing ? Kit puts her hands on Vivian's blonde wig.
KIT: No ! I love this look. It's very glamorous. Glamour choice. We hear brakes screeching. Kit turns around toward the noise.
KIT: Oh, yo, oh, yo. Catch this ! Full shot on the boulevard. The Lotus is driving along the boulevard. The car bounces a little, while the gears are grinding. Back to the two girls watching the car. Vivian points to it.
VIVIAN: Wait a minute. That's a Lotus Esprit. We see the car passing in front of the girls. Apparently, it has stopped a little further on the boulevard, because we hear its brakes screeching. Reverse angle shot showing the two girls with the stopped car behind them.
KIT: No, that's rent. You should go for him. You look hot tonight. Don't take less than a hundred. Call me when you're through. Take care of you. Vivian hugs Kit.
VIVIAN: Take care of you. She takes her jacket off and puts it across her bag. She walks slowly toward the car. KIT ( voice over ) Work it. Work it, baby. Work it ! Work it. Own it.
EDWARD: Yes, you can handle this. Close Up on Edward's hand trying to work the gearshift. EDWARD ( voice over ) First is here somewhere. We hear the gears grinding, but the shift doesn't want to move into first gear position. Back to Edward sitting in his car. We see Vivian's back bending to look through the passenger's window.
VIVIAN: Hey, sugar, you looking for a date ?
EDWARD: No, I wanna find Beverly Hills. Can you give me directions ? Reverse angle shot showing Vivian's face through the window
VIVIAN: Sure. For five bucks. Reverse angle shot on Vivian's back.
EDWARD: Price just went up to ten.
VIVIAN: Price just went up to ten.
EDWARD: You can't charge me for directions. Reverse angle shot on Vivian's face.
VIVIAN: I can do anything I want to, baby. I ain't lost. Reverse angle shot on Vivian's back. She is standing up. Reverse angle shot showing Vivian's standing body through the All right, okay ?
EDWARD: All right, okay ?
CARLOS: Is that Vivian ?
ANOTHER MAN: Where ? Medium shot on the Lotus seen from the back. Vivian opens the passenger door and climbs in. EDWARD ( voice over ) All right. You win, I lose. Got change for a twenty ?
VIVIAN: For twenty, I'll show you personal. Even show you where the stars live.
EDWARD: Oh, that's all right. I already been to Stallone's.
VIVIAN: Right. Uh, down the street.
CARLOS: Vivian, did you forget ? I told you don't take no dates LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT Edward tries to start the car, but he just starts the windshield wipers ! CARLOS ( voice over ) Vivian !
VIVIAN: Let's go. Close up on Edward's hand trying to work the gearshift. CARLOS ( voice over ) Hey, where you going, baby ?
VIVIAN: Look, I use condoms always. I get checked out once a month at the free clinic. Not only am I better in the sack than an amateur, I am probably safer.
EDWARD: I like that. That's very good. Should have that printed on your business card.
VIVIAN: If you're making fun of me, I don't like it.
EDWARD: No, I'm not making fun of you.
EDWARD: No, I'm not making. I'm not. I wouldn't offend you. I'm Back on the boulevard. A traffic light going from amber to red. We hear the tires screeching as the car stops.
EDWARD: What's your name ?
VIVIAN: What do you want it to be ? Edward smiles to her.
VIVIAN: Vivian. My name is Vivian.
EDWARD: HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - EXTERIOR NIGHT The light turned green, and the car starts. We hear gears grinding.
VIVIAN: Man, this baby must corner like it's on rails !
EDWARD: I beg your pardon ?
VIVIAN: Well, doesn't it blow your mind ? This is only four LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT Close Up on Edward's hand trying to change gears. It doesn't really succeed, and we hear a grinding noise.
EDWARD: You know about cars. Where did that come from ?
VIVIAN: Road and Track. The boys back home I grew up with, they were really into American heavy metal : Mustangs, LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT They bought them cheap and fixed them up. I paid attention. So how is it you know so little about cars ?
EDWARD: LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT
VIVIAN: They bought them cheap and fixed them up. I paid attention. So how is it you know so little about cars ?
EDWARD: My first car was a limousine.
VIVIAN: So where is this. He tries to shift gears and gets another grinding noise.
EDWARD: So where is this. He tries to shift gears and gets another grinding noise.
EDWARD: .heavy metal. home ?
VIVIAN: Milledgeville, Georgia. You know, I think you left your transmission back there. You're not shifting right. This is a standard «H».
EDWARD: Standard «H». Like I know what that means. She laughs.
EDWARD: Have you ever driven a Lotus ?
VIVIAN: You're gonna start right now.
EDWARD: You're gonna start right now.
VIVIAN: You're joking.
EDWARD: No. It's the only way I can get you off my coat. Medium shot on a lingerie shop. We see Vivian's head, and then the camera follows her as she climbs into the driver's seat. Edward closes his door on the passenger's side. Vivian closes her door and puts her seat belt Fasten your seat belts. I am taking you for the ride of your life. I'm gonna show you what this car can really do. Are you ready ?
VIVIAN: Fasten your seat belts. I am taking you for the ride of your life. I'm gonna show you what this car can really do. Are you ready ?
EDWARD: I am ready.
VIVIAN: Hang on.
EDWARD: Here we go. She adjusts the back-view mirror. Medium close-up shot of the car seen from the back with the camera set on the road. The car starts very fast, but also very smoothly : it is now driven by very expert hands. Several shots of the car racing along the streets. Shot of the the couple through the windshield.
VIVIAN: Here we go. She adjusts the back-view mirror. Medium close-up shot of the car seen from the back with the camera set on the road. The car starts very fast, but also very smoothly : it is now driven by very expert hands. Several shots of the car racing along the streets. Shot of the the couple through the windshield.
VIVIAN: This has pedals like a race car. They're really close together. So it's probably easier for a woman to drive, because they have little feet. Except me. I wear a size LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT You know your foot's as big as your arm from your elbow to your wrist ? She shows her arm to Edward, who chuckles.
VIVIAN: You know your foot's as big as your arm from your elbow to your wrist ? She shows her arm to Edward, who chuckles.
VIVIAN: Did you know that ?
EDWARD: No, I didn't know that.
VIVIAN: It's a little bit of trivia. Edward looks at her and smiles.
EDWARD: Tell me, what kind of. what kind of money you girls make these days ? Ballpark.
VIVIAN: Can't take less than a hundred dollars.
EDWARD: A hundred dollars a night ?
VIVIAN: For an hour.
EDWARD: An hour ? You make a hundred dollars an hour and you got a safety pin holding your boot up ? You gotta be joking.
VIVIAN: I never joke about money.
EDWARD: Neither do I. Hundred dollars an hour. Pretty stiff. She puts her right hand on Edward's zipper.
VIVIAN: Well, no. But it's got potential. Edward doesn't react, but he looks at her in such a way that she feels she has better take her hand off his zipper.
HOTEL ATTENDANT: Good evening, Mr. Lewis. Will you be needing the car anymore tonight ?
VIVIAN: Ah. You're here.
EDWARD: He looks at her for a couple of second, before talking again.
EDWARD: So you'll be all right ?
VIVIAN: Yeah, I'm gonna grab a cab with my twenty bucks.
EDWARD: Go back to your office. She laughs.
VIVIAN: Yeah. My office. Yeah.
EDWARD: Well, thanks for the ride.
VIVIAN: See you.
EDWARD: Edward starts turning around to go inside the hotel, but doesn't do it, and instead looks back in Vivian's direction. Medium shot on Vivian seated on the backrest of a public bench, with her feet resting on the bench itself. She puts her cap back
VIVIAN: No, I like the bus. Edward walks to the bench on which Vivian is sitting. Quick medium shot on the uniformed attendant watching the scene with curiosity from the entrance of the hotel. Back to Vivian and Edward.
EDWARD: I was thinking. Did you really say a hundred dollars an hour ?
VIVIAN: Yeah. Well, if you don't have any prior engagements, I'd be very pleased if you would accompany me into the hotel.
EDWARD: Yeah. Well, if you don't have any prior engagements, I'd be very pleased if you would accompany me into the hotel.
VIVIAN: You got it. She gets off the bench and laughs.
VIVIAN: What is your name ? They start walking toward the entrance of the hotel
EDWARD: Edward. That's my favorite name in the whole world ! He smiles.
VIVIAN: Edward. That's my favorite name in the whole world ! He smiles.
EDWARD: No ?!
VIVIAN: I tell you what, this is fate, Edward. That's what this is.
EDWARD: Why don't you put this on ? He puts his coat, which he was carrying on his arm, on Vivian's shoulders, and then wraps it around Vivian's body, in order to cover as much as he can of Vivian's very conspicuous outfit.
VIVIAN: Why ?
EDWARD: Well, this hotel is not the kind of establishment that rents rooms by the hour.
VIVIAN: REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR NIGHT Medium shot on Edward and Vivian crossing the hotel lobby. While walking, Vivian puts her arms into the sleeves of the coat. Then she raises her eyes to look at the luxury around her.
VIVIAN: Wow ! EDWARD ( voice over ) It's all right. Medium full shot on the guests seated in comfortable armchairs near the front desk. All these guests are very elegantly dressed, and mostly middle-aged. They all look with curiosity at the strange couple that just walked in. VIVIAN ( voice over ) Holy shit.
EDWARD: You're gonna be fine. Come with me. And stop fidgeting. Another medium shots on seated guests staring at the couple. Edward walks to the reception desk, with Vivian following him. A very neatly dressed female receptionist is behind the counter.
FEMALE RECEPTIONIST: Good evening, Mr. Lewis.
EDWARD: Hello. You have messages ?
FEMALE RECEPTIONIST: Yes, we have several.
EDWARD: Thank you. While Edward is looking through his messages, Vivian is leaning on the wall near the reception desk and looks around her. She takes her cap off, but one still can see her strange outfit underneath the slightly open coat. She stares at a passing female guest who stares back at her.
EDWARD: Could you send up some champagne and strawberries, please ?
FEMALE RECEPTIONIST: Of course. She picks up the phone.
FEMALE RECEPTIONIST: Room service for Mr. Lewis, please. Edward slowly walks away from the desk, taking Vivian along with Medium shot on the elevator doors. Edward and Vivian reach the elevator, and Edward presses the call button. A middle-aged couple is already waiting for it. They both look at Vivian. Vivian turns around and notice their disapproving look. She raises her leg and puts the tip of her boot on the high ash-tray set near the door of the elevator, showing her thigh to the couple, and especially to the man.
VIVIAN: Oh, honey. You know what's happened ? I've got a runner in my pantyhose. She laughs and turns to the middle-aged couple.
VIVIAN: I'm not wearing pantyhose. We hear the ding of the elevator bell. Vivian puts her leg down. The elevator door opens on Dennis, the young elevator attendant. Vivian is the first one to walk in.
VIVIAN: Well, color me happy ! There's a sofa in here for two. Edward wants to let the middle-aged couple enter the elevator first. The man starts to move, but his wife holds him back.
EDWARD: First time in an elevator.
VIVIAN: Sorry, I couldn't help it.
EDWARD: The elevator moves up. Dennis tries to look casual, but doesn't really succeed.
DENNIS: The penthouse. Mmmm !
VIVIAN: The penthouse. Mmmm !
EDWARD: Vivian gets out of the elevator.
EDWARD: To the left.
VIVIAN: Edward gets out of the elevator. Dennis can't keep his eyes off Vivian, and watches her walking in the hallway. Edward turns around and looks at him a bit severely. Dennis wipes the smile off his face, goes back into the cabin of the elevator and closes the doors. The camera follows Edward walking away to the door of the penthouse, where Vivian is waiting for him. He gets his magnetic card out of his pocket. Close Up on Edward's hands trying to insert the magnetic card into the slot in the lock of the door. He sighs.
EDWARD: Oh, I miss keys.
EDWARD: Impressed ?
VIVIAN: You kidding me ? I come here all the time. As a matter of fact, they do rent this room by the hour.
EDWARD: Sure they do. Edward has been taking a newspaper left by an attendant on a small table near the front door. He crosses the room and and drops the newspaper on the desk. He sits down behind the desk, and starts looking through his mail, while Vivian walks out on the terrace. VIVIAN ( voice over from the terrace ) Wow, great view ! I bet you can see all the way to the ocean from out here.
EDWARD: I'll take your word for it, because I don't go out there. Vivian walks in the room through another French window-door on the other side of the desk. She puts her bag on an armchair.
VIVIAN: Why don't you go out there ?
EDWARD: I'm afraid of heights.
VIVIAN: You are ? Edward nods his head.
VIVIAN: So how come you rented the penthouse ?
EDWARD: It's the best. I looked all around for penthouses on the first floor, but I can't find one. Vivian takes off Edward's coat and puts in on a sofa.
VIVIAN: Well, now that you have me here, what are you going to do with me ?
EDWARD: Want to know something ? I don't have a clue.
VIVIAN: No ?
EDWARD: I hadn't exactly planned this.
VIVIAN: Well, do you plan everything ? She takes her red jacket off.
EDWARD: Yeah. Me too. She sits down on an armchair.
VIVIAN: Yeah. Me too. She sits down on an armchair.
VIVIAN: I'm actually. No, I'm not a planner. I wouldn't say I was a planner. I would say I was, hum, a kind of «fly by the seat of my pants» girl. You know, moment to moment. That's me. That's. Yeah. Edward, still seated behind his desk, watches her with a strange look in his eyes. He suddenly realizes that perhaps he hasn't done something very wise in bringing Vivian with him.
VIVIAN: Mm-hmm. You know, you could pay me. That's one way to maybe break the ice.
EDWARD: Oh, yeah. I'm sorry. Uh, I assume cash is acceptable. He takes his wallet out of this jacket.
VIVIAN: Cash works for me, yeah. She stands up and walks to the desk. Edward puts the money on the desk. She takes the money and sits on the desk. She puts the money in one of her high boots.
EDWARD: You're on my fax.
VIVIAN: Well, that's one I haven't been on before. She doesn't stand up but moves slightly in a very suggestive way. Edward takes his fax, but doesn't seem to react at Vivian's suggestive movements.
EDWARD: Cute. Very cute. Thank you. She laughs, and zips one of her boots down. Out of the boot, she takes several condoms wrapped in cellophane paper.
VIVIAN: All right. Here we go. Pick one. I got red, I got green, I got yellow. I'm out of purple, but I do have one gold circle coin left. The condom of champions. The one and only. Nothing is getting through this sucker. What d'you say ? Hmm ?
EDWARD: A buffet of safety.
VIVIAN: I'm a safety girl. Edward stands up from his desk. Immediately Vivian reaches for his All right, let's get one of these on you.
VIVIAN: All right, let's get one of these on you.
EDWARD: No, no. I. He laughs awkwardly.
EDWARD: Why don't we just talk for a little bit, okay ? He takes his jacket off, and puts it on the back of the desk Talk. Yeah. uh. okay. Edward, are you in town on, uh, business or pleasure ?
VIVIAN: Talk. Yeah. uh. okay. Edward, are you in town on, uh, business or pleasure ?
EDWARD: Business, I think. He walks away from the desk across the room.
VIVIAN: Business, you think. She zips her boot back up, stands up and follows him across the Well. let me guess. Edward, now in his shirtsleeves, but still with his necktie and his vest on, has seated himself in an armchair.
VIVIAN: Well. let me guess. Edward, now in his shirtsleeves, but still with his necktie and his vest on, has seated himself in an armchair.
VIVIAN: That would make you. a lawyer. She sits downs on a low pouf in front of his armchair.
EDWARD: A lawyer ?
VIVIAN: What makes you think I'm a lawyer ?
EDWARD: What makes you think I'm a lawyer ?
VIVIAN: You've got that, um. sharp, useless look about you.
EDWARD: I bet you've known a lot of lawyers.
VIVIAN: I've known a lot of everybody. The doorbell chimes. They both stand up.
VIVIAN: What is that ? He turns around and find his face very close to Vivian's face, and seems a little disturbed by it.
EDWARD: Oh ! Well. Might as well make myself useful. Take a load The doorbell chimes again. Vivian runs across the room to the front door and opens it. A room service male attendant comes in carrying a loaded tray. Vivian closes the door behind him.
VIVIAN: Oh ! Well. Might as well make myself useful. Take a load The doorbell chimes again. Vivian runs across the room to the front door and opens it. A room service male attendant comes in carrying a loaded tray. Vivian closes the door behind him.
VIVIAN: ROOM SERVICE ATTENDANT Uh, where would you like it ?
VIVIAN: Where would we like it ? Edward has seated himself back in the armchair.
EDWARD: Uh, over by the bar. The attendant seems a little surprised by Vivian's outfit, but, being a good luxury hotel attendant, he pretends not to notice, and carries the tray onto the bar. After he has put the tray down, he turns around and almost bumps into Vivian, who was standing behind him.
VIVIAN: Excuse me ! She giggles.
EDWARD: Thank you. The attendant doesn't move away and remains close to Vivian, staring at her.
VIVIAN: What are you looking at ? The attendant clears his throat.
VIVIAN: What is he looking at ? Edward walks toward the attendant, and gives him some tip money.
EDWARD: Ah, yes. Here you go. Thank you very much.
VIVIAN: A tip. Wow. I missed that one. Oh. ( in a much softer voice ) Don't worry about it. Edward sets the champagne glasses on the bar.
EDWARD: Don't worry about it. Edward sets the champagne glasses on the bar.
VIVIAN: You mind if I take my boots off ? She sits down on the steps that run across the room, separating it in two slightly different levels.
EDWARD: Not at all.
VIVIAN: So, do you have a wife ? Girlfriend ? She zips one of her boots down.
EDWARD: I have both.
VIVIAN: Where are they ? Shopping together ? She takes her knee-length sock off. We hear the champagne bottle cork popping off.
EDWARD: My ex-wife. is now in Long Island. in my ex-home. with my ex-dog. He brings her a glass of Champagne, which he sets down on the floor besides her. Vivian is taking her other boot off.
EDWARD: There you go. He walks back to the bar to take his own glass.
EDWARD: My ex-girlfriend, Jessica, is in New York. moving out of my apartment even as we speak. He looks at her, a bit surprised. Vivian is draining her glass empty. Edward comes near her, with a silver bowl in his hands. In the bowl are some fresh strawberries.
EDWARD: Why don't you try a strawberry ? He takes the lid off the bowl and shows it to her.
VIVIAN: Why ?
EDWARD: It brings out the flavor in the champagne.
VIVIAN: Oh, groovy. She takes a strawberry and eats it. Edward closes the bowl and brings it back on the bar. He sits down on a stool.
VIVIAN: Pretty good. Don't you drink ?
EDWARD: Listen, I. I appreciate this whole seduction scene you've got going, but let me give you a tip : I'm a sure thing, okay ? So, I'm on an hourly rate. Could we just move it along ?
VIVIAN: Listen, I. I appreciate this whole seduction scene you've got going, but let me give you a tip : I'm a sure thing, okay ? So, I'm on an hourly rate. Could we just move it along ?
EDWARD: Somehow I'm sensing that this time problem is a major issue with you. He stands up.
EDWARD: Why don't we just get through that right now ?
VIVIAN: Great, let's get started.
EDWARD: How much for the entire night ?
VIVIAN: Stay here ?
EDWARD: Try me.
VIVIAN: Three hundred dollars.
EDWARD: Done. Thank you. Now we can relax. He takes the glass off her hand. She stands up.
VIVIAN: Are you sure you want me to stay for the entire night ? I mean, I could just pop you good and be on my way. She walks to the bar, where Edward is filling the glass with To tell you the truth, I don't feel like being alone He gives her the glass, and she immediately drinks it. He sits down on the stool.
EDWARD: To tell you the truth, I don't feel like being alone He gives her the glass, and she immediately drinks it. He sits down on the stool.
VIVIAN: Why ? Is it your birthday or something ?
EDWARD: I mean, I have been the party at a couple of birthdays.
VIVIAN: I mean, I have been the party at a couple of birthdays.
EDWARD: I bet you have.
VIVIAN: So what do you want me to do ? He doesn't answer immediately, remains pensive for a couple of seconds, and then looks at her. He laughs.
EDWARD: I don't know. I really don't know.
VIVIAN: I'll be out in just a minute. That champagne kind of got to She closes the door, and goes back to the sink. Edward re-opens the door and enters the bathroom.
EDWARD: I didn't hear you. What did you say ? Vivian hides something behind her back, but her hand in her back can be seen in one of the bathroom mirror.
VIVIAN: Uh. I said I'd be out in just a minute. Edward looks worried. He points to her
EDWARD: What is. What do you have in, uh, your hand there ? What are you hiding ?
VIVIAN: He walks toward her and sighs. He grabs her by the arm and moves her toward the door. He takes her hand bag
EDWARD: All right, look. I do not want any drugs here. I don't want any of this. Get your things and your money and please She gets rid of his hand.
VIVIAN: I don't do drugs, all right ? I. I stopped doing drugs when I was fourteen.
EDWARD: What is this ? What is this ? Close Up on Vivian's hand, which Edward is opening by force. She was hiding a little box of dental floss. Edward has put Vivian's bag under his arm.
EDWARD: This is dental floss. She takes her dental floss back.
VIVIAN: Yeah ? So ? I had all those strawberry seeds. And you shouldn't neglect your gums.
EDWARD: I'm sorry. Please continue.
VIVIAN: Thank you. She walks to the sink. He start walking across the room, but stops in his tracks, and looks at her. She turns around from the sink and looks at him.
VIVIAN: Are you gonna watch ?
EDWARD: No, I'm going. He gives the handbag back to her.
VIVIAN: Thank you.
EDWARD: It's just that, uh, very few people surprise me.
VIVIAN: Yeah, well, you're lucky. Most of them shock the hell out of me. He nods his head. She goes back to the sink and brings a piece of dental floss to her mouth, stops, and brings it down. She turns You're watching.
VIVIAN: You're watching.
EDWARD: I'm going. He closes the door. Vivian starts cleaning her teeth with dental PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT Close Up shot on the TV screen, where an old black and white episode of «I love Lucy» is being played. It is episode 23 from Season 5, called «Lucy's Italian Movie». Lucy is standing close to a huge bucket full of grapes, and seems a bit reluctant to climb into it. Behind her, a fat Italian lady is speaking Italian to We hear recorded laughs coming from the TV set. The camera moves away from the TV set. We hear Edward's voice speaking on the telephone. EDWARD ( voice over ) Yes, that may be true, Vance. We hear Vivian laughing. EDWARD ( voice over ) Yes, I know, but I still need the numbers on Morse On the TV screen, the Italian fat lady is climbing into the bucket full of grapes. The camera keeps on moving away from the TV set, and we discover Vivian sitting on the floor and drinking Champagne. And, behind her, we see Edward sitting on an armchair near a small table on which the telephone set is resting. Edward is writing on a document resting on his laps.
EDWARD: Uh-huh. I've got them from London. I need them now from Tokyo. I'll call down and get them when I want them. Thank you very much. He puts the phone down back on its hook. Medium high angle shot on Vivian sitting on the floor, with all kinds of goodies around her, including the Champagne bottle in its I have a little carpet picnic here. Are you sure you don't want a drink ? Back on Edward, still writing on the document on his laps. He I'm high on life. Can't you tell ? Quick shot on Vivian laughing. Medium shot on the TV screen, where Lucy is putting a reluctant foot in the bucket. Close Up on her foot reaching into the grapes. She screams with a wide open mouth. Back on Vivian changing position and lying on her stomach to be more comfortable to watch TV. She laughs. Edward watches her without moving from his armchair. VIVIAN ( voice over ) You know, I never saw this episode. Edward chuckles. And then he stands up. Vivian is still lying on the floor, laughing. Edward sits down on the sofa next to her. Shot on the TV screen, where Lucy is stomping the grapes, with a disgusted face. We hear Vivian laughing very loudly. Close Up on Vivian's face laughing and holding the glass of Champagne. She looks up at Edward, still seated on the sofa. Close shot on Edward looking at Vivian Close Up shot on Vivian's face. She has a strange smile on her Close Up shot on Edward's face looking at Vivian. Back to Vivian. We hear the recorded laughs coming from the TV set. Vivian stands up on her arms and knees and walks on all four toward the sofa. Quick shot on the TV screen, where Lucy and the other woman are stomping the grapes. High angle shot on Vivian on her knees near the sofa. She puts a hand up inside Edward's pants leg. Edward snorts. On the TV screen, Lucy now seems to be enjoying her grapes Still resting on her knees, Vivian is taking her white top off her shoulders. She slips it down, and because the top is attached to the skirt, the skirt comes down with it. Vivian is now wearing only her black lace underwear and bra. Vivian puts the top and the skirt away from her on the floor, and bends down on the seated Edward. Suddenly, she stands up and walks away. Edward seems surprised. But she comes back with a cushion that she drops on the floor, and then kneels on it. She takes the TV remote control from the table by the sofa, and presses a button on it. On the TV screen, Lucy and the Italian lady are still stomping the grapes, but the sound shuts off. Back to the sofa. Closer shot. Vivian puts the remote control back on the table. Then she leans on Edward, and starts taking his necktie off. Edward puts his hand on her hair, and seems surprised : he hadn't realized it was a wig. Quick shot on the TV screen, where Lucy and her Italian friend are now dancing on the grapes. Back to the sofa, where Vivian is taking Edward's pants off. She opens his shirt on his chest, and bends on it. Close Up on their two faces, very close to each other.
VIVIAN: I have a little carpet picnic here. Are you sure you don't want a drink ? Back on Edward, still writing on the document on his laps. He I'm high on life. Can't you tell ? Quick shot on Vivian laughing. Medium shot on the TV screen, where Lucy is putting a reluctant foot in the bucket. Close Up on her foot reaching into the grapes. She screams with a wide open mouth. Back on Vivian changing position and lying on her stomach to be more comfortable to watch TV. She laughs. Edward watches her without moving from his armchair. VIVIAN ( voice over ) You know, I never saw this episode. Edward chuckles. And then he stands up. Vivian is still lying on the floor, laughing. Edward sits down on the sofa next to her. Shot on the TV screen, where Lucy is stomping the grapes, with a disgusted face. We hear Vivian laughing very loudly. Close Up on Vivian's face laughing and holding the glass of Champagne. She looks up at Edward, still seated on the sofa. Close shot on Edward looking at Vivian Close Up shot on Vivian's face. She has a strange smile on her Close Up shot on Edward's face looking at Vivian. Back to Vivian. We hear the recorded laughs coming from the TV set. Vivian stands up on her arms and knees and walks on all four toward the sofa. Quick shot on the TV screen, where Lucy and the other woman are stomping the grapes. High angle shot on Vivian on her knees near the sofa. She puts a hand up inside Edward's pants leg. Edward snorts. On the TV screen, Lucy now seems to be enjoying her grapes Still resting on her knees, Vivian is taking her white top off her shoulders. She slips it down, and because the top is attached to the skirt, the skirt comes down with it. Vivian is now wearing only her black lace underwear and bra. Vivian puts the top and the skirt away from her on the floor, and bends down on the seated Edward. Suddenly, she stands up and walks away. Edward seems surprised. But she comes back with a cushion that she drops on the floor, and then kneels on it. She takes the TV remote control from the table by the sofa, and presses a button on it. On the TV screen, Lucy and the Italian lady are still stomping the grapes, but the sound shuts off. Back to the sofa. Closer shot. Vivian puts the remote control back on the table. Then she leans on Edward, and starts taking his necktie off. Edward puts his hand on her hair, and seems surprised : he hadn't realized it was a wig. Quick shot on the TV screen, where Lucy and her Italian friend are now dancing on the grapes. Back to the sofa, where Vivian is taking Edward's pants off. She opens his shirt on his chest, and bends on it. Close Up on their two faces, very close to each other.
EDWARD: I'm high on life. Can't you tell ? Quick shot on Vivian laughing. Medium shot on the TV screen, where Lucy is putting a reluctant foot in the bucket. Close Up on her foot reaching into the grapes. She screams with a wide open mouth. Back on Vivian changing position and lying on her stomach to be more comfortable to watch TV. She laughs. Edward watches her without moving from his armchair. VIVIAN ( voice over ) You know, I never saw this episode. Edward chuckles. And then he stands up. Vivian is still lying on the floor, laughing. Edward sits down on the sofa next to her. Shot on the TV screen, where Lucy is stomping the grapes, with a disgusted face. We hear Vivian laughing very loudly. Close Up on Vivian's face laughing and holding the glass of Champagne. She looks up at Edward, still seated on the sofa. Close shot on Edward looking at Vivian Close Up shot on Vivian's face. She has a strange smile on her Close Up shot on Edward's face looking at Vivian. Back to Vivian. We hear the recorded laughs coming from the TV set. Vivian stands up on her arms and knees and walks on all four toward the sofa. Quick shot on the TV screen, where Lucy and the other woman are stomping the grapes. High angle shot on Vivian on her knees near the sofa. She puts a hand up inside Edward's pants leg. Edward snorts. On the TV screen, Lucy now seems to be enjoying her grapes Still resting on her knees, Vivian is taking her white top off her shoulders. She slips it down, and because the top is attached to the skirt, the skirt comes down with it. Vivian is now wearing only her black lace underwear and bra. Vivian puts the top and the skirt away from her on the floor, and bends down on the seated Edward. Suddenly, she stands up and walks away. Edward seems surprised. But she comes back with a cushion that she drops on the floor, and then kneels on it. She takes the TV remote control from the table by the sofa, and presses a button on it. On the TV screen, Lucy and the Italian lady are still stomping the grapes, but the sound shuts off. Back to the sofa. Closer shot. Vivian puts the remote control back on the table. Then she leans on Edward, and starts taking his necktie off. Edward puts his hand on her hair, and seems surprised : he hadn't realized it was a wig. Quick shot on the TV screen, where Lucy and her Italian friend are now dancing on the grapes. Back to the sofa, where Vivian is taking Edward's pants off. She opens his shirt on his chest, and bends on it. Close Up on their two faces, very close to each other.
VIVIAN: What do you want ?
EDWARD: What do you do ?
VIVIAN: Everything. But I don't kiss on the mouth.
EDWARD: Neither do I. She bends on his chest and starts kissing him on the chest, going down. She stops to look at the TV. On the TV screen, the Italian lady is throwing grapes in Lucy's Back to Vivian, who smiles and resumes her kissing job on Edward's Close Up shot on Edward's face : he is inhaling very strongly.
BARNEY: Good morning, gentlemen.
BARNEY: Good morning, good morning. He keeps on walking toward the reception desk.
ANOTHER ATTENDANT: Good morning, sir. Behind the desk, three clerks, two females and one male
BARNEY: Good morning, Marjorie. She waves her hand to him.
EDWARD: Of course Morse is going to fight. It's to be expected. He's run his company for a very long time now. I don't think he's ready to have his name taken off the stationery. Edward signs the bill the waiter has shown to him.
PHILIP: He wants to meet you face to face, hmm.
EDWARD: Sure, you wouldn't. But do it anyhow. Tonight. Dinner. Set it up. Edward sits on a chair at the breakfast table.
PHILIP: Oh, Edward, Edward. I. Look, it's really not a good idea that you see him. A middle-aged maid walks behind him with a glass jar of coffee, fresh from the percolator. She wants to pour some coffee in Philip's cup, but, with his free hand, he moves her away.
PHILIP: Definitely not alone.
EDWARD: Well, you know, there's always a possibility things are gonna go wrong. The waiter leaves the room, and Vivian walks in from the bedroom, wearing a white bathrobe.
EDWARD: That's why I enjoy this so much. Oh, by the way, Phil, about your car.
PHILIP: Oh, God. What ?
EDWARD: It corners like it's on rails.
PHILIP: What ? What does that mean ?
VIVIAN: Edward turns around and smiles to Vivian.
EDWARD: Well, good morning. She slightly touches her hair.
VIVIAN: Y.You didn't wake me. I can see you're really busy. I'm gonna be out of here in just a minute.
EDWARD: Y.You didn't wake me. I can see you're really busy. I'm gonna be out of here in just a minute.
VIVIAN: Y.You didn't wake me. I can see you're really busy. I'm gonna be out of here in just a minute.
EDWARD: No, there's no hurry. Are you hungry ? You must be. He stands up from the table.
EDWARD: Why don't you sit and have something to eat ? She walks slowly to the table.
EDWARD: I, uh, took the liberty of ordering everything on the menu. Close Up shot on the table. Edward takes off the metal lids that were covering two plates. One has scrambled eggs and bacon, the other one has pancakes and strawberries.
EDWARD: I didn't know what you'd like.
VIVIAN: All right ? Good. Edward puts the lids on the table. Vivian takes a pancake and walks slowly to the terrace. She seems embarrassed.
EDWARD: All right ? Good. Edward puts the lids on the table. Vivian takes a pancake and walks slowly to the terrace. She seems embarrassed.
EDWARD: Did you sleep well ?
VIVIAN: Yeah, too good. Vivian enters the terrace. VIVIAN ( voice over from the terrace ) I forgot where I was. Edward has seated himself at the breakfast table and is working on some documents.
EDWARD: Occupational hazard ? She comes back into the room and chuckles.
VIVIAN: Yeah. Did you sleep ?
EDWARD: Uh, yes, a little, on the couch. She sits down on the table near Edward.
EDWARD: I was, uh, working last night.
VIVIAN: You don't sleep, you don't do drugs, you don't drink, you hardly eat. What do you do, Edward ? Because I know you're not a lawyer. He laughs.
EDWARD: That's right. He looks at her sitting on the table, and points to the chairs around the table.
EDWARD: There are four other chairs here.
VIVIAN: She stands up and walks to an empty chair. She sits on it with one foot on the chair and her knee up above table level. She goes on eating breakfast.
VIVIAN: So what do you do ?
EDWARD: I buy companies.
VIVIAN: What kind of companies ?
EDWARD: Uh, I buy companies that are in financial difficulty.
VIVIAN: If they have problems, you must get them for a bargain, huh ?
EDWARD: Well, the company I'm buying this week, I'm getting for the bargain price of about one billion. She almost chokes on her pancake.
VIVIAN: A billion dollars ?
EDWARD: Wow. You must be really smart, huh ? He chuckles.
VIVIAN: Wow. You must be really smart, huh ? He chuckles.
VIVIAN: I only got through the eleventh grade. How far did you go in school ?
EDWARD: I went all the way.
VIVIAN: Your folks must be really proud, huh ? He doesn't answer and just smiles. She keeps on eating and tries to peak at the documents in front of PENTHOUSE - BATHROOM - INTERIOR DAY Edward is in shirtsleeves and vest, in front of the mirror, knotting his tie. Vivian walks in.
VIVIAN: So you don't actually have a billion dollars, huh ?
EDWARD: No, I get some of it from banks, investors. It's not an easy thing to do. She sits down on the table in front of him.
VIVIAN: And you don't make anything.
EDWARD: And you don't build anything.
VIVIAN: And you don't build anything.
EDWARD: So what do you do with the companies once you buy them ?
VIVIAN: So what do you do with the companies once you buy them ?
EDWARD: I sell them.
VIVIAN: Here, let me do that. She grabs his necktie and starts knotting it properly.
VIVIAN: You sell them ?
EDWARD: Well, I. don't sell the whole company. I break it up into pieces. and then I sell that off. It's worth more than the whole. Close Up shot on Edward's necktie, and Vivian's hands knotting it. Back on a medium shot of Vivian working on Edward's tie.
VIVIAN: So it's sort of like, um, stealing cars and selling them for the parts, right ?
EDWARD: Yeah, sort of. But legal.
EDWARD: Close Up on Edward's tie, which is now very well knotted. Edward puts a final hand on his tie.
EDWARD: Not bad. Not bad at all. Where'd you learn to do that ? She stands up and goes out of the room.
VIVIAN: Well, I screwed the debate team in high school. She comes back with his jacket, and helps him put in on.
VIVIAN: I had a grandpa ! He was nice to me. He liked ties on Sundays. Mind if I, um, take a swim in your tub before I go ?
EDWARD: Not at all. Just stay in the shallow end. He goes out of the bathroom, followed, a couple of seconds later, by Vivian.
PHILIP: Edward, it's Phil. Listen, I'm running out the door.
EDWARD: Oh, that's good. PHILIP ( voice over on the phone ) He's bringing his grandson.
PHILIP: He's grooming him to take over. I don't know.
EDWARD: Ah, yes. Very intense young man named David. He plays polo.
PHILIP: Look, I gotta say this again. I don't like you going alone, you know.
EDWARD: Oh, yes. Yeah, I'm here. He walks to the bathtub, where Vivian is immersed in a foam-bath. She has earphones on her ears, and she is singing with her eyes If you want to impress me. PHILIP ( voice over on the phone ) What is that ? Edward is standing near the bathtub, but Vivian, because of the loud music in her earphones and her closed eyes, doesn't seem to notice him.
EDWARD: Housekeeping is singing.
PHILIP: Yeah. listen.
EDWARD: No, you don't. Medium shot on the bathtub, where Vivian is still singing with her eyes closed. We see the yellow walkman lying on the bathtub edge near her head. She is holding the water faucet with one hand.
EDWARD: Besides, I already have one. VIVIAN ( singing in voice over ) If you want to impress me. Edward starts walking around the bathtub to get closer to Vivian's You just concentrate on finding out what Morse is up to.
EDWARD: You just concentrate on finding out what Morse is up to.
EDWARD: I'm on my way. High angle close-up shot on Vivian's head.
VIVIAN: Don't you just love Prince ?
EDWARD: More than life itself.
VIVIAN: Don't you knock ?
EDWARD: Vivian, I have a business proposition for you.
VIVIAN: What do you want ?
EDWARD: I'm gonna be in town until Sunday. I'd like you to spend the week with me. Vivian smiles, not believing what she just heard.
VIVIAN: Really ?
EDWARD: Yes. Yes, I'd like to hire you as an employee. Would you consider spending the week with me ? She laughs awkwardly.
EDWARD: I will pay you to be at my beck and call.
VIVIAN: Look, I'd love to be your «beck and call girl», but, uh, you're a rich, good-looking guy. You could get a million girls free.
EDWARD: I want a professional. I don't need any romantic hassles this week.
VIVIAN: If you're talking twenty-four hours a day, it's gonna cost Oh, yes, of course ! He stands up.
EDWARD: Oh, yes, of course ! He stands up.
EDWARD: All right, here we go. Give me a ballpark figure. How much ?
VIVIAN: Six full nights, days too. Four thousand.
EDWARD: Six nights at three hundred is eighteen hundred.
VIVIAN: You want days too.
EDWARD: Two thousand.
VIVIAN: Three thousand.
EDWARD: Holy shit ! She laughs, and dives her head underwater. Medium full shot of Edward bending over the bathtub.
VIVIAN: Holy shit ! She laughs, and dives her head underwater. Medium full shot of Edward bending over the bathtub.
EDWARD: Vivian ? He talks louder for her to be able to hear him underwater.
EDWARD: Vivian, is that a yes ? She taps her feet on the bottom of the bathtub. Closer shot of Vivian coming out of the water, her face all covered with foam.
VIVIAN: She brushes the foam off her face. Edward dries her face with a white towel. She spits water and laughs.
VIVIAN: Yes !
EDWARD: I'll be gone most of the day. I want you to buy some Vivian looks at the thick wad of banknotes he just gave her.
VIVIAN: You really should think about traveler's checks. Edward keeps on walking across the room, with Vivian following We may be going out evenings. You'll need something to Like what ?
EDWARD: We may be going out evenings. You'll need something to Like what ?
VIVIAN: Like what ?
EDWARD: Uh, nothing too flashy. Not too sexy. He stops at the breakfast table, put some documents back in his brief-case and closes it.
EDWARD: Conservative. You understand ?
VIVIAN: Elegant. Any questions ? He picks up his brief-case and walks to the front door.
EDWARD: Elegant. Any questions ? He picks up his brief-case and walks to the front door.
VIVIAN: Can I call you Eddie ?
EDWARD: Not if you expect me to answer.
VIVIAN: I would've stayed for two thousands. He had almost reached the door, but he comes back to face her.
EDWARD: I would've paid four. I'll see you tonight. He walks to the front door.
VIVIAN: Baby, I'm gonna treat you so nice, you're never gonna wanna let me go. He has opened the door but he turns around.
EDWARD: Three thousand for six days. And, Vivian, I will let you He goes out and closes the door. Vivian smiles and speaks very But I'm here now. She laughs and runs toward the bedroom.
VIVIAN: But I'm here now. She laughs and runs toward the bedroom.
VIVIAN: Three thousand dollars ! She kicks the bed with her foot. Then she remains quiet for a couple of seconds, gets rid of the towel on her head, and sits up on the bed.
VIVIAN: Oof ! She picks up the telephone set on the night table and puts it on the bed.
KIT: Hello ?
VIVIAN: I called and called. Where were you last night ?
KIT: Ma ? VIVIAN ( voice over on the phone ) It's Viv. Kit relaxes.
KIT: Oh. Hi. I had to party. Where are you ?
VIVIAN: Oh, man. Are you ready for this ? The guy ? The Lotus ? I am in his hotel room in Beverly Hills. The penthouse. His bathroom is bigger than the Blue Banana !
KIT: Do I have to hear this ?
VIVIAN: Kit, he wants me to stay the whole week. And you know what he's gonna give me ?
KIT: Bullshit !
VIVIAN: I swear to God. And extra money to buy clothes.
KIT: Oh, man ! I am bummed. I gave that guy to you !
KIT: Three thousand. Really ? Is he twisted ? Kit looks for something in the mess in the sink.
VIVIAN: KIT ( voice over on the phone ) Ugly ?
VIVIAN: He's good-looking ! KIT ( voice over on the phone ) Well, what's wrong with him ?
VIVIAN: VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY Kit comes out of the shower cubicle with a toothbrush in her hand.
KIT: Did he give you the money yet ? VIVIAN ( voice over on the phone ) At the end of the week.
KIT: That's what's wrong with him.
VIVIAN: Well, he gave me three hundred for last night. And, Kit ? She sits on the bed.
VIVIAN: I'm gonna leave some at the front desk for you. I want you to pick it up.
KIT: Reg. Bev. Wil.
VIVIAN: Now, one more thing. Where do I go for the clothes ? Good stuff, on him.
KIT: In Beverly Hills ? VIVIAN ( voice over on the phone ) Rodeo Drive, baby.
KIT: Rodeo Drive, baby.
BARNEY: Ah ! Medium shot on the reception desk. Miss Wilson, a blonde bespectacled receptionist girl is behind the desk.
VIVIAN: MISS WILSON
MISS WILSON: Yes, ma'am. May I help you ? Vivian puts an envelope on the desk.
VIVIAN: Yeah, I'm leaving this here for Kit De Luca. She's gonna pick it up. The receptionist takes the envelope and looks at it.
VIVIAN: Don't open that.
MISS WILSON: No, ma'am. Back on Barney and the Italian guests.
BARNEY: Vivian walks near them, with the high heels of her boots clicking on the floor. The Italian starts pushing the wheelchair. Barney looks at Vivian.
BARNEY: Miss Wilson, do you know that lady ?
MISS WILSON: No, sir. Barney turns back toward the departing Vivian.
LYRICS: Wild women do. And they don't regret it. The camera pans down to street level and away from the hotel into Rodeo Drive.
LYRICS: Wild women show what they're going through. The camera crosses the street on a crosswalk. Vivian is walking on this crosswalk.
LYRICS: Ooh ! Wild women do what you think you'll never. Vivian looks at the pedestrians, so different from the ones she is used to see on Hollywood Boulevard. Several quick Close Up shots on various emblems above the shops : «Louis Vuitton», «Chanel», «Diamonds on Rodeo» «Gucci»
LYRICS: What you only dream about wild women do. Mediums shot. Vivian stops near a jewel shops and looks in the window at the expensive jewels. She then moves away, looking around and smiling.
LYRICS: Oh, yes, they do. Vivian keeps on walking looking up at the emblems. She apparently doesn't notice that several pedestrians are looking at her, surprised by her «costume».
LYRICS: You tell me you want a woman who is simple as a flower. Close shots on the beautiful clothes in the windows and then at Vivian smiling and looking at the clothes.
LYRICS: Well, if you want me to act like that, you've got to pay me by the hour. A convertible BMV drives on the street. Both the male driver and the female passenger are talking on their cell phones.
LYRICS: Wild women do and they don't regret it. Close shot on another saleswoman, who is arranging some flowers in a big vase. She is very neatly dressed and looks a bit snobbish. Vivian enters the shop. The saleswoman seated on the sofa looks up at her.
LYRICS: Oh, wild women show what they're going through. A third saleswoman, wearing a black jacket and standing behind a counter, looks up at Vivian. The saleswoman, who is arranging the flowers, also looks at Vivian.
LYRICS: Oooh-whoo ! Ooh, yeah. Vivian stops to look around and then walks to dresses hanging on a rail, and starts looking at them.
LYRICS: Wild women do what you think you'll never. The music fades out. High angle shot on the whole shop. The saleswoman ( Saleswoman # 1 ), who was arranging the flower, is now standing behind Vivian.
VIVIAN: Well, I'm just checking things out.
VIVIAN: No. Well, yeah. Uh. something. conservative. She looks at a dummy wearing a very elegant suit. The saleswoman looks up and down at Vivian's «costume», and answers with a forced Vivian walks away to watch other items in the shop.
VIVIAN: You got nice stuff.
VIVIAN: How much is this ? Vivian looks at another dummy wearing a very elegant light-colored dress. The saleswoman ( Saleswoman # 2 ) with the black jacket has joined them.
VIVIAN: Well, I didn't ask if it would fit. I asked how much it The saleswoman # 1 turns toward her colleague.
VIVIAN: Look, I got money to spend in here. She starts walking nervously around the shop.
WOMAN'S VOICE: Doctor's office ? Two blocks down and to your left.
MAN'S VOICE: Thank you. Vivian seems almost annoyed by those uninteresting bits of conversation. She keeps on walking.
BARNEY: Excuse me, miss, may I help you ?
VIVIAN: I'm going to my room. She keeps on walking and Barney follows her.
BARNEY: Uh, do you have a key ? She stops walking and turns around to face Barney.
VIVIAN: Oh. I forgot that cardboard thing. I'm on the top floor.
BARNEY: You're a guest here ?
VIVIAN: I'm with a friend.
BARNEY: And who would that be ?
VIVIAN: Edward ? The elevator bell dings and the elevator door opens.
BARNEY: Edward ? The elevator bell dings and the elevator door opens.
VIVIAN: Edward. Edward, uh. Barney nods his head.
BARNEY: Dennis comes out of the elevator. Vivian points at him.
VIVIAN: He knows me. Barney turns toward Dennis.
BARNEY: Dennis walks toward his boss.
BARNEY: Dennis, did you just come off the night shift ? Hmm ?
DENNIS: Yes, sir. Barney buttons the collar of Dennis' uniform.
BARNEY: Do you know this young lady ?
DENNIS: She's with Mr. Lewis. Dennis speaks with a croaky voice, because Barney is slightly strangling him while buttoning his uniform.
BARNEY: Mr. Lewis ?
VIVIAN: That's it. Edward Lewis ! Thanks, Dennis. She slaps Dennis' shoulder, and moves into the elevator.
DENNIS: Evidently she joined him last night.
BARNEY: Thank you. Barney moves away from Dennis and joins Vivian into the elevator. Dennis puts his hands on his collar to open it and be able to breathe properly. VIVIAN ( voice over from the elevator ) Oh, God ! What now ? What ? What ? She comes out of the elevator, with Barney holding her elbow.
VIVIAN: What is with everybody today ? They walk along the lobby, away from the elevator. Dennis looks at them and smiles. Two business men, going into the elevator, also look at them, surprised.
BARNEY: No, no. It's all right. Just come with me. We'll have a little chat. Thank you. Dennis, thank you.
VIVIAN: I'm coming. I'm coming.
BARNEY: Don't play with me, young lady.
VIVIAN: Thank you. Vivian. Barney puts the pot down on the table and sits down on the desk itself just in front of Vivian.
BARNEY: Thank you. Vivian. Barney puts the pot down on the table and sits down on the desk itself just in front of Vivian.
BARNEY: Well, Miss Vivian. Things that go on in other hotels don't happen at the Regent Beverly Wilshire. Now, Mr. Lewis, however, is a very special customer, and we like to think of our special customers as friends. Now, as a customer, we would expect Mr. Lewis to sign in any additional guests, but as a friend, we're willing to overlook it. Now, I'm assuming that you're a. Barney bends his head down, and Vivian also bends her head down before answering.
BARNEY: Relative ?
VIVIAN: Mm-hmmm. I thought so. Then you must be his. Same game of bending heads down.
BARNEY: Mm-hmmm. I thought so. Then you must be his. Same game of bending heads down.
VIVIAN: Niece ?
BARNEY: Of course. Naturally, when Mr. Lewis leaves, I won't see you in this hotel again. I assume you have no other uncles Vivian shakes her head. She suddenly seems a bit tired by the Good ! Then we understand each other. I would also encourage you. to dress a little more appropriately. that'll be all. Vivian raises her hands and her voice.
BARNEY: Good ! Then we understand each other. I would also encourage you. to dress a little more appropriately. that'll be all. Vivian raises her hands and her voice.
VIVIAN: No, that's not all. That's what I was trying to do. I tried to go. get a dress on Rodeo Drive today, and the women wouldn't help me. And I have all this money now and no dress ! Vivian takes the loose jumbled banknotes from her bag and shows them to Barney.
VIVIAN: Not that I expect you to help me, but I have all of this, okay ? I have to buy a dress for dinner tonight. And nobody will help me. Barney takes the money out of Vivian's hands, then takes a white handkerchief out of the breast pocket of his jacket and gives it to Vivian. Then he gives her her money back. He walks around his desk, and picks up his telephone.
VIVIAN: Oh, man, if you're calling the cops. Yeah, call the cops. That's great. Tell 'em I said hi.
BARNEY: Women's clothing. Vivian looks up, a bit surprised.
BARNEY: Bridget, please. Vivian looks at him, and then takes the handkerchief and loudly blows her nose.
BARNEY: Yes, Bridget. Hello. This is Barnard Thompson here at the Regent Beverly Wil.
PHILIP: Edward, we just got the Morse update. Don, can you hold the projection, please ? The projection stops. Philip stands up and switches the lights on. He sighs and turns toward the young man.
PHILIP: Yeah, what ? Speak.
PHILIP: Navy contract. I can't believe this shit. I thought you said they had nothing in the hopper on this one !
MARK: Hey, you know, if that's true it could cost a lot more. Those stocks could go through the roof.
PHILIP: Yeah, no shit, Sherlock. The young man walks toward Edward, still standing up.
PHILIP: Walk away ? Hey, forget it, pal. We got a thousand man- hours in on this ! Nobody's walking away from anything ! Philip sits down at the table, next to Mark.
MARK: Philip, I think he's right. PHILIP ( raising his voice ) Forget it, Mark. The two men start arguing, and since they are talking loudly together, we don't understand what they say. Edward, with a glass of water in his hand, comes to the table and raises his voice.
EDWARD: Gentlemen, relax ! The arguments between Philip and Mark stops
EDWARD: Relax ! Who do we know on the Senate Appropriations Committee ?
PHILIP: Senator Adams.
EDWARD: All right, Senator Adams. Let's find out where he is. Philip stands up and the young man sits down in his chair.
EDWARD: The Navy's not going to spend 350 million dollar on anything without going to Appropriations first. He drinks his water.
PHILIP: I don't understand what's going on here today, gentlemen. The young man is on the phone, trying to reach someone.
EDWARD: That's why I hired you, Phil, to do my worrying for me. He picks up his briefcase.
EDWARD: I'll be in your office. Bob, if you want to send over the geologicals ? BOB ( voice over ) No problem.
EDWARD: Thank you. He goes out of the room. Philip follows him. Mark and the young blonde man sitting next to him are working on the documents in front of them. PHILIP ( voice over ) EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - RECEPTION HALL - INTERIOR DAY Edward is about to enter Philip's private office. Philip is standing behind him.
PHILIP: Listen, everything all set for the meeting tonight ? Edward turns around to face Philip.
EDWARD: We hear faint voices coming from the meeting room.
PHILIP: Who. Who is this girl you're going with ? THE YOUNG ASSISTANT ( voice over ) Nobody you know. He enters Philip's private office. Philip turns around to go back in the meeting room, with a worried look on his face. THE YOUNG ASSISTANT ( voice over ) Yes, Edward Lewis Enterprises. Phil Stuckey. Yes, I have him right here.
EDWARD: Nobody you know. He enters Philip's private office. Philip turns around to go back in the meeting room, with a worried look on his face. THE YOUNG ASSISTANT ( voice over ) Yes, Edward Lewis Enterprises. Phil Stuckey. Yes, I have him right here.
DAY: Full shot of the Women's clothing shop inside the hotel. Several women and even one man walking around. Counters and shelves full of women's clothing items. Hanging rails with dresses hanging on Vivian walks into the shop and starts looking around. Bridget comes into the shop with a Mrs Rainey, a customer.
BRIDGET: Don't worry, Mrs. Rainey, I'll call you the minute it comes Thank you.
MRS RAINEY: Thank you.
BRIDGET: Have a nice day.
MRS RAINEY: Thank you. The customer walks away and Bridget stops near Vivian who is looking at something on a counter. Closer shot of Vivian looking at her teeth in a mirror set on the counter. She makes a face and brushes something off her teeth. Bridget bends over the mirror.
BRIDGET: Hello. You must be Vivian. My name's Bridget. They shake hands.
VIVIAN: Yeah, hi. Barney said you'd be nice to me. They both laugh.
BRIDGET: He's very sweet. What are your plans while you're in town ?
VIVIAN: We're gonna have dinner. She is ready to sit on the glass covering the counter, but Bridget prevents her from doing so.
BRIDGET: Oh, don't sit on there, dear !
VIVIAN: Oh !
BRIDGET: You're gonna go out ? Dinner ?
VIVIAN: Well, you'll need a cocktail dress then. Come with me. Larger shot showing the whole shop.
BRIDGET: Well, you'll need a cocktail dress then. Come with me. Larger shot showing the whole shop.
BRIDGET: Now, I'm sure we're gonna find something here that your uncle will love. You're a size six, right ?
VIVIAN: Yeah. How'd you know that ?
BRIDGET: Oh, that's my job. They start walking upstairs to the upper level.
VIVIAN: Bridg, he's not really my uncle.
BRIDGET: They never are, dear.
VIVIAN: Barney ! She quickly looks at the Japanese man.
VIVIAN: Sorry, mister. Barney says a few words in Japanese to the Japanese guests.
VIVIAN: I got a dress !
BARNEY: Well, I'd rather hoped you'd be wearing it.
VIVIAN: Oh, no, I didn't want to get it messed up ! Listen, I got shoes too. You wanna see ?
BARNEY: No, that won't be necessary. I'm sure they're quite lovely. Thank you.
VIVIAN: Okay, well, listen. I didn't mean to interrupt you, but Bridget was really great. and I just wanted to say thanks. You're cool.
BARNEY: You're welcome, Miss Vivian. She walks away, and Barney looks at her, with a slight smile on his lips.
VIVIAN: Hello ?
EDWARD: Never, ever pick up the phone.
VIVIAN: Then why are you calling me ? She sits down. EDWARD ( voicer over on the phone ) Did you buy clothes today ? She squeezes the phone receiver between her head and her shoulder to have a better look at the garment bag.
VIVIAN: I got a dress. A cocktail one. EDWARD ( voicer over on the phone ) That's good.
EDWARD: I'll be in the hotel lobby, 7:45 sharp. VIVIAN ( voicer over on the phone ) What ? You're not coming up to the door ?
EDWARD: This isn't a date. It's business.
VIVIAN: Where are you taking me, anyway ?
EDWARD: I'm taking you to a restaurant called the Voltaire.
VIVIAN: All right. I'll meet you in the lobby, but only 'cause you're paying me to.
EDWARD: Well, thank you very much. He puts the phone down.
THE SECRETARY: Mr. Stuckey wanted to see you.
EDWARD: Yes, tell him I'm in the middle of a very important phone The secretary walks away.
VIVIAN: Hello ?
VIVIAN: Then stop calling me.
VIVIAN: REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR DAY Medium shot of Barney standing up in the lobby with his back to us. One of his assistant, wearing a dark suit, crosses the lobby, followed by an uniformed attendant. Vivian rushes toward Barney.
VIVIAN: Barney ! Barney looks at her and notices she is still wearing her prostitute costume.
BARNEY: It didn't fit ?
VIVIAN: Oh, no, no, no, no, no. Uh. I've got a little problem.
BARNEY: Shrimp fork, salad fork, dinner fork.
VIVIAN: I definitely have the salad fork. The rest of the silverware is a little confusing. The camera moves back again giving a full view of the dining room, with Barney and Vivian's table in the forefront. A black case is open on the table : inside a impressive collection of silver Barney picks up the different forks and shows them to Vivian.
BARNEY: All right, if you get nervous, just count the tines. Four tines : dinner fork. And sometimes there are three tines in the salad fork. And sometimes.
BARNEY: Pardon me, Mr. Lewis. I'm Mr. Thompson. I'm the manager of the hotel. Edward stops at a marble shelf with a row of courtesy telephones on it. He hardly listens to what Barney is telling him.
EDWARD: Uh-huh. Excuse me, I just want to make one call. He picks up a telephone but keeps looking around him. He seems a bit worried.
BARNEY: Yes, um, sir. I have a message for you, sir.
EDWARD: From who ?
BARNEY: From your niece, sir. Edward, for the first time, looks at Barney. His finger is on the dial of the phone, but he doesn't dial.
EDWARD: My what ?
BARNEY: The young lady who's staying with you in your room, sir.
EDWARD: Oh. Hmm. Edward smiles and puts down the telephone receiver which he had already put to his ear.
EDWARD: I think we both know that she's not my niece.
BARNEY: Of course.
EDWARD: The reason I know that is that I am an only child.
BARNEY: Yes, sir.
EDWARD: What's the message ?
BARNEY: She's waiting for you in the lounge. Intriguing young lady, Miss Vivian. Edward remains pensive for a couple of seconds before answering.
EDWARD: Edward picks up his briefcase which he had put on the telephone
BARNEY: Have a good evening, sir.
EDWARD: Thank you, Mr. ? He walks away.
BARNEY: Thompson. I'm the manager. He takes his business card out of the pocket of his vest to give it to Edward, but Edward is already gone.
BARNEY: .manager of the hotel, sir.
VIVIAN: You're late.
EDWARD: You're stunning. She laughs.
VIVIAN: You're forgiven.
EDWARD: Shall we go to dinner ? He gives her his arm. She puts her arm inside his arm and they walk across the lounge toward the exit.
MAITRE D'HOTEL: This way, Mr. Lewis. Your party is waiting.
EDWARD: Stop fidgeting. Closer high angle shot of Vivian and Edward walking toward a table where two men, an old one and a younger one, are already seated.
EDWARD: Mr. Morse. The two men stand up. The older one is James «Jim» Morse and the younger one is his grandson, David Morse.
JAMES MORSE: Yes, Mr. Lewis. I'm Jim Morse. They shake hands.
JAMES MORSE: This fireball is my grandson, David.
DAVID MORSE: Well, I don't know about the fireball part, but grandson is true enough.
EDWARD: I'm pleased to meet you both. This is a friend of mine, Vivian Ward.
VIVIAN: Hi. I'm really glad to meet you.
EDWARD: Mr. Morse. David. She shakes hands with both men.
EDWARD: Please, sit. The maitre d'hotel pulls the chair for Vivian. The men wait for Vivian to be seated to sit down. Vivian has James Morse on her right, Edward on her left, and David in front of her.
EDWARD: Where are you going ? She smiles to the two other men.
VIVIAN: I'm going to the ladies' room. The two Morse men smile back to her.
EDWARD: Upstairs, to the right.
VIVIAN: Okay. Excuse me. She starts walking away.
EDWARD: Shall I order for you ? She turns around.
VIVIAN: She stops, exhales, and says, in a more polite tone :
VIVIAN: Please do so. Thank you.
EDWARD: I'll do that. She walks away. The three men sit down. Close Up shot on a plate being laid in front of one of the guests. On the plate, four appetizers, actually four canapés. DAVID MORSE ( voice over ) Mr. Lewis, my grandfather believes the men who create a The camera moves up from the plate to the guest's face. The guest is Vivian, and she looks a bit worried by what has been brought to DAVID MORSE ( voice over ) .should control its destiny. Vivian turns to Edward.
VIVIAN: Where's the salad ? David looks at Vivian, a bit surprised by what she just said. Edward whispers to Vivian
EDWARD: Uh, the salad comes at the end of the meal.
VIVIAN: That's the fork I knew. David smiles. Vivian takes one of her forks and looks at it, then she puts it DAVID MORSE ( voice over ) Let me, uh, put it another way. Between your public statements and the rumors flying around on this thing, we find it very hard to figure out what your real intentions Sensing Vivian's embarrassment, James Morse smiles to her.
JAMES MORSE: I don't know about you, but I've never been able to figure which goes with what ! He points to the different forks around his plate. Vivian laughs. David seems a bit annoyed by the fact that the conversation keeps on deviating on menial subjects. James Morse takes one of the canapés with his fingers and eats it. Vivian smiles, and also takes the canapé with her fingers. She wipes something out of it before eating it. Edward smiles. He is happy that Vivian and James are getting along so well. Close Up on the table in front of Vivian. We see the waiter's hand putting down a plate of snails in their shells. DAVID MORSE ( voice over ) You know, there was a time when we built ships the size of cities. Men like my grandfather made this country. Vivian looks at the snails and then at the waiter.
VIVIAN: Who ordered this ? David seems more and more annoyed by the situation with Vivian. THE WAITER ( voice over ) The gentleman did, ma'am. Bon appétit. Edward looks at Vivian.
EDWARD: These are escargot. It's French for snails. It's a delicacy. Try it. David ? David bends down on the table. His grandfather looks at him.
DAVID MORSE: Mr. Lewis, if you were to get control. and I don't think you will. but if you did, what do you plan to do with the company ? Vivian is trying to figure out how to work the snail pincers. Edward looks at David
EDWARD: Break it up and sell off the pieces. Edward is trying to mime to Vivian how to use the snail pincers. Closer shot on James Morse.
JAMES MORSE: I'm sure you'll understand I'm not thrilled at the idea. of your turning forty years of my work into your garage Vivian is still fighting with her snail pincers. Close Up on Vivian's plate and her hands trying to use the snail EDWARD ( voice over ) At the price I'm paying for this stock, Mr. Morse, you are going to be a very rich man. James Morse looks at Edward.
JAMES MORSE: I'm rich enough. I just want to head my shipyard. Eventually, Vivian had succeeded in fitting one snail into the snail pincers, but it flies away from the pincers. The waiter, a white-hair man with a gentle face, catches it. Edward looks at the waiter and then at Vivian.
VIVIAN SMILES: Slippery little suckers. Both Morse gentlemen smile. THE WAITER ( smiling ) It happens all the time. Close Up on the table in front of Vivian. A ball of green ice cream, in a silver cup, is being put down on the table. Medium shot on the Morse gentlemen.
VIVIAN: Slippery little suckers. Both Morse gentlemen smile. THE WAITER ( smiling ) It happens all the time. Close Up on the table in front of Vivian. A ball of green ice cream, in a silver cup, is being put down on the table. Medium shot on the Morse gentlemen.
JAMES MORSE: I met your father. What's his name ?
EDWARD: Vivian bits in a piece of leaf that was on the table, makes a face, and takes it out of her mouth. Medium shot on James Morse. Then medium shots on whomever is
JAMES MORSE: He's not quite the bastard everybody says he is.
EDWARD: No, I have the franchise on that.
JAMES MORSE: Does that make him proud ?
EDWARD: I doubt it. It doesn't really matter now. He passed away.
JAMES MORSE: Oh, I hadn't heard. I'm sorry.
VIVIAN: I'm sorry too.
EDWARD: Mr. Morse, you asked for this meeting. What can I do for you ?
JAMES MORSE: Leave my company alone.
EDWARD: I can't do that. I own ten million shares.
JAMES MORSE: I'll buy your stock back.
EDWARD: You don't have the money.
DAVID MORSE: We will. We're getting a contract to build ten destroyers.
EDWARD: There will be no contract. The contract is now buried in Appropriations Committee. And it will remain there.
DAVID MORSE: And how the hell did you pull something like that ? You got dirty politicians in your pockets now or something ? JAMES MORSE ( voice over ) Easy, easy, calm down. Calm down, David. Quick shots at Edward with a slight ironical smile on his face, and then at Vivian, looking embarrassed.
JAMES MORSE: Mr. Lewis plays hardball.
EDWARD: Yes, yes, I do. David slams his napkin on the table
DAVID MORSE: I've heard enough of this. Vivian, it was a great pleasure to meet you. I'm sorry, Grandfather. I've gotta get some air. Mr. Lewis. He stands up and walks away.
JAMES MORSE: I'd better join my grandson. You two enjoy your dinner. He stands up.
JAMES MORSE: I'm sure it'll be delicious. Good luck, miss. Edward stands up. James Morse comes close to him.
JAMES MORSE: Watch out, Lewis. I'm gonna tear you apart.
EDWARD: I look forward to it, sir. He walks away. Vivian looks more and more embarrassed.
EDWARD: Rich people throw their napkins a lot, don't they ? He sits down.
VIVIAN: He seems like a nice man.
EDWARD: I guess three thousand dollars does not buy loyalty, does it ?
VIVIAN: I just mean it's sweet the way he's crazy about his Two waiters puts down plates in front of Edward and Vivian.
EDWARD: Oh, his grandson thinks he's a relic. He hates that he does, but he does. He makes a sign to the waiters who were wondering about the missing guests.
EDWARD: No, just the two. THE WAITER ( voice over ) Yes, sir. From her purse, Vivian takes out a little ketchup sealed pack, as found in fast food restaurants, and starts tearing it open. Edwards looks at her and smiles. Close Up on Vivian's plate, where there are a piece of meat, a cob of corn, a jacket potato sliced in two halves, and some salad. We see Vivian's hand pouring ketchup from the pack on her meat. Medium shot on the maitre d'hotel walking toward the waiter and whispering in his ear. The waiter nods his head toward Vivian. Close Up on Vivian's plate. She spread the ketchup on her meat with her fork. The maitre d'hotel walks away, bobbing his head in a deprecating Vivian looks around and senses that something is wrong. Edward smiles and looks at the waiter.
VIVIAN: It's ketchup. The waiter smiles.
THE WAITER: Yes, sir. EDWARD ( voice over ) Check, please.
THE WAITER: Yes, sir. The waiter walks away to get the check.
VIVIAN: Haven't they ever seen ketchup before ?
EDWARD: Not in this building.
VIVIAN: Edward, you said you never come out here. He looks down at the feet of his chair.
EDWARD: Well, I'm only halfway out.
VIVIAN: Didn't say much in the car on the way home. You thinking about dinner ? I was a maniac.
VIVIAN: I mean, the business was good, I think. You know ? Vivian sits down on the balustrade of the terrace.
VIVIAN: He's in trouble. You want his company. He doesn't want to let it go.
EDWARD: Thanks for the recap.
VIVIAN: The problem is, I think you liked Mr. Morse.
EDWARD: What I would like is for you to get down from there. You're making me very nervous. Please come down.
VIVIAN: It's making you nervous ? What if I just leaned back a little bit like this ? She starts leaning back a little.
VIVIAN: Would you. Would you rescue me if I fell ?
EDWARD: Vivian, I'm serious. Come. I'm not looking.
VIVIAN: It's really high. She takes her hands off the balustrade, and waves them up in the Look, no hands, no hands ! Okay, all right. I'm sorry.
VIVIAN: Look, no hands, no hands ! Okay, all right. I'm sorry.
EDWARD: The truth is, it really is totally irrelevant whether I like this man or not.
EDWARD: I will not let myself become emotionally involved in I know. Kit's always saying to me, «Don't get emotional when you turn tricks». That's why no kissing. It's too Edward is smiling.
VIVIAN: I know. Kit's always saying to me, «Don't get emotional when you turn tricks». That's why no kissing. It's too Edward is smiling.
VIVIAN: It's like what you're saying : You stay numb, you don't get involved. When I'm with a guy, I'm like a robot. I just do Edward looks at her with an ironical smile on his face. Vivian sighs and smiles.
VIVIAN: I mean. except with you.
EDWARD: Oh, of course, not with me. You and I are such similar creatures, Vivian. We both screw people for money. Vivian looks embarrassed.
VIVIAN: I was sorry to hear about your dad. When did he die ?
EDWARD: Last month.
VIVIAN: Do you miss him ?
EDWARD: I hadn't spoken to him in fourteen and a half years. I wasn't there when he died.
VIVIAN: Do you want to talk about this ?
EDWARD: PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT The terrace seen from the open French window. Vivian drops down from the balustrade, walks toward Edward and kneels down beside his chair.
VIVIAN: Well, I tell you what, 'cause I got an idea.
VIVIAN: Let's watch old movies all night. We'll just veg out in front of the TV.
EDWARD: «Veg out» ?
VIVIAN: Yeah. Be still like vegetables. Lay like broccoli. He stands up.
EDWARD: Look, I'll tell you what. I'll be back. We'll do broccoli He strokes her chin very delicately. She stands up.
VIVIAN: Where are you going ?
EDWARD: I'm going downstairs for a while.
VIVIAN: Hi, uh, I'm in the penthouse. The guy that was here, Mr. Lewis, have you seen him down there anywhere ?
EDWARD: Thank you. Thank you very much.
VIVIAN: I didn't know you played.
EDWARD: I only play for strangers. Closer shot on the piano. Vivian leans on the piano.
VIVIAN: I was getting lonely upstairs all by myself. Edward turns around.
EDWARD: Gentlemen, would you mind leaving us, please ? Full shot of the room. The cleaning crew is leaving the room.
EDWARD: Thank you. Close Up shot on Vivian's face.
VIVIAN: People always do what you tell them to do ? Medium shot. Edward grabs Vivian by the waist and sets her in front of him. We hear the piano keys as they are pounded by Vivian's buttocks. Edward puts his forehead on Vivian's belly. Vivian, her hand on his hair, looks down at him, with a strange expression in her eyes. Edward looks up and starts untying Vivian's bathrobe belt. Under the bathrobe, Vivian is still wearing her cocktail dress. Close Up on Vivian's face as Edward lifts her dress up.
VIVIAN: I guess so. Edward grabs her, lifts her, and sits her on the piano. We hear the piano keys being pounded by Vivian's feet. Edward strokes her hair. He wants to kiss her, but she moves away. Eventually, she puts her head into his neck, and kisses him on the The bathrobe has fallen down on the piano. Edward spreads Vivian's legs apart, and squeezes himself between those open legs. Vivian lies down on the piano, while Edward is having sex with The camera slowly moves away from the piano, giving us a full shot of the entire room. We hear the piano key being pounded, and the camera goes down behind some unspecified piece of furniture, making a fade-out to black screen.
EDWARD: Now, if you have any trouble using this card, have them call the hotel. All right ? Vivian takes the card and sits up in bed.
VIVIAN: Oh ! More shopping. Edward ties his shoelaces.
EDWARD: Mm-hmm. I'm surprised you didn't buy more than one dress Wasn't as much fun as I thought it was gonna be.
VIVIAN: Wasn't as much fun as I thought it was gonna be.
EDWARD: Why not ?
VIVIAN: They were mean to me.
EDWARD: Mean to you ? Edward looks very surprised. Vivian nods «Yes».
VIVIAN: People are looking at me. They now walk on the sidewalk.
EDWARD: They're not looking at you. They're looking at me.
VIVIAN: The stores are not nice to people. I don't like it.
EDWARD: Stores are never nice to people. They're nice to credit He stops walking and Vivian also stops.
EDWARD: Okay, stop fidgeting.
VIVIAN: All right.
EDWARD: Get rid of your gum. She spits her gum, almost hitting two female pedestrians. One of them jumps up.
EDWARD: I don't believe you did that. Edward pulls her by the hand and they enter an expensive clothing CLOTHING STORE - INTERIOR DAY Medium shot of Vivian and Edward standing near a hanging rail full of dresses. Edward is holding Vivian's hand, who seems a little embarrassed. A young well-dressed man approaches them : he is Mr. Hollister, the manager of the store.
EDWARD: Yes ?
HOLLISTER: I am Mr. Hollister, the manager. May I help you ? Edward shakes hand with him.
EDWARD: Edward Lewis.
HOLLISTER: Ah, yes, sir.
EDWARD: You see this young lady over here ? Vivian joins the two men with a broad smile.
HOLLISTER: Do you have anything in this shop as beautiful as she is ? Vivian puts her head on Edward's shoulder.
EDWARD: Do you have anything in this shop as beautiful as she is ? Vivian puts her head on Edward's shoulder.
HOLLISTER: Oh, yes. Hollister understand he has made a blunder.
HOLLISTER: Oh, no ! No, no, no, I'm saying we have many things as beautiful as she would want them to be. That's the point I was getting at, and I think we can all agree with that. That's why when you came in. Edward takes Hollister's elbow and walks slightly away.
EDWARD: Excuse me. You know what we're gonna need here ?
HOLLISTER: .we knew from the first.
EDWARD: We're gonna need a few more people helping us. I'll tell you why. We're going to be spending an obscene amount of money in here. So we're going to need a lot more help sucking up to us. That's what we really like. You understand that. Vivian smiles behind Edward.
HOLLISTER: Sir, if I may say so, you're in the right store and the right city for that matter. Medium shot of Vivian seated in a comfortable armchair with a catalogue on her laps and Hollister kneeling at her side.
HOLLISTER: Anything you see here, we can do, by the way. Get ready to have some fun. Okay ? Vivian smiles.
VIVIAN: Hollister makes a sign with his hand. Full shot of the store. In the forefront, Edward is standing behind a counter with a cordless telephone in his hand. He dials on the telephone.
HOLLISTER: Mary Pat, Mary Kate, Mary Francis, Tovah, let's see it ! He stands up. A saleswoman is running toward Vivian with a dress in her hands. She puts it on Vivian's laps, who puts the catalogue Come on. Bring it out, girls.
HOLLISTER: Come on. Bring it out, girls.
THE SALESWOMAN: Oh, this is absolutely divine. Another saleswoman, also with a dress in her hand, is coming from the other side. Medium shot on Edward behind the counter. In the background, we hear female voices, but we don't understand the words. Hollister walks toward Edward.
HOLLISTER: Excuse me, sir, uh,
EDWARD: Yeah ?
HOLLISTER: Exactly how obscene an amount of money were you talking about ? Just profane or really offensive ?
EDWARD: Really offensive.
HOLLISTER: I like him so much ! Edward takes the phone to his ear, and Hollister walks away. We hear the orchestral music from the title song : «Pretty Woman» Vivian is still seated on her armchair, looking at all the clothes that the saleswomen are bringing to her. She has a very bright red dress in her hand and she looks at Edward makes a face and nods «No». A saleswoman put a black hat on Vivian's head. Edward smiles and nods «Yes». Hollister sits down near Vivian and a saleswoman brings a grey dress. Vivian points to the dress and looks at Edward. Edward makes a face and a «So-So» sign with his hand. Slightly later. Edward is standing near the counter, drinking coffee. In the background, we see Vivian surrounded by saleswomen. Hollister walks toward Edward. The music stops.
HOLLISTER: Mr. Lewis, sir. Mr. Lewis, how's it going so far ? Pretty well, I think.
EDWARD: I think we need some major sucking up.
HOLLISTER: Very well, sir. You're not only handsome, but a powerful man. I could see the second you walked in here, you were someone to reckon with. Edward has put the coffee cup down and has taken the telephone again. He turns toward Hollister.
EDWARD: Yes, sir.
HOLLISTER: Yes, sir.
EDWARD: Not me. Her. He points toward the group of saleswomen surrounding Vivian.
HOLLISTER: I'm sorry, sir. I'm sorry. He walks away from Edward and toward the group of saleswomen.
HOLLISTER: How we doing, ladies ?
PHILIP: Oh, Edward, Edward. Where the hell are you ? The word's all over the street.
EDWARD: He's countering ?
PHILIP: I don't know. He, uh. I think he's throwing in with the CLOTHING STORE - INTERIOR DAY He still needs someone to underwrite the paper.
EDWARD: He still needs someone to underwrite the paper.
PHILIP: Yeah, okay. You got it. He presses a button on the telephone set to cut the call.
EDWARD: You're on your own. I have to go back to work. You look great ! He walks toward the exit of the store, and near Hollister.
EDWARD: She has my card.
HOLLISTER: And we'll help her use it, sir. Slightly later. We hear the song «Oh, Pretty Woman», performed by Roy Orbison. Vivian, wearing a black short dress, is dancing on the rhythm of the music, surrounded by two saleswomen.
LYRICS: Pretty woman walking down the street. Vivian comes out of a dressing cubicle, wearing a black sweater and brown pants.
LYRICS: Pretty woman the kind I like to meet. Pretty woman. Close Up shot of Vivian's back putting a beige silk blouse on.
LYRICS: I don't believe you. You're not the truth. Vivian, wearing a light pink suit, whirls round.
LYRICS: No one could look as good as you. Mercy. Vivian, wearing a white blouse, looks at some pieces of lingerie. Vivian, wearing a brown dress with white dots, whirls round. Close Up of Vivian's leg putting hoses on. The volume of the music goes down. Another department of the store : the shoe department. Vivian, wearing a white suit with thin vertical stripes, is surrounded by shoes. Hollister is kneeling beside her, and a salesman is helping her try a new pair of shoes. Vivian smiles and looks at the necktie worn by the salesman.
VIVIAN: Edward would love that tie. Hollister turns toward his salesman.
HOLLISTER: Would you give her the tie ?
THE SALESMAN: The tie ?
HOLLISTER: Take off the tie. Give her the tie.
THE SALESMAN: The tie. He starts taking off his tie.
HOLLISTER: He really wants to do this, by the way.
VIVIAN: He would go crazy about this tie. A saleswoman walks toward them, carrying a large pizza in an open cardboard box. Hollister looks worried.
HOLLISTER: Who ordered pizza ? But Vivian seems very happy about the pizza. The volume of the music goes back up.
LYRICS: Pretty woman, stop a while. The camera moves away from the parasol, and Vivian appears on the screen. She is wearing a very elegant white suit, long white gloves, and a black hat.
LYRICS: Pretty woman, talk a while. Pretty woman give your smile to The camera backs up away from Vivian, and we notice she is carrying several bags, certainly full of clothes. Men turn their head to look at her.
LYRICS: Pretty woman Yeah, yeah, yeah.
LYRICS: Pretty woman, look my way. The camera moves from the window to the street door of the Pretty woman, say you'll stay with me. The volume of the music goes down, as Vivian enters the shop. Saleswoman # 2 walks toward her.
LYRICS: Pretty woman, say you'll stay with me. The volume of the music goes down, as Vivian enters the shop. Saleswoman # 2 walks toward her.
VIVIAN: No, thank you. Vivian keeps on walking until she reaches Saleswoman # 1, who is working on a hanging rail. Saleswoman # 1 was the one who actually ejected Vivian from the boutique.
VIVIAN: SALESWOMAN # 1
VIVIAN: Do you remember me ? Apparently, the saleswoman doesn't recognize this very elegant woman as being the one she was rude to the day before.
VIVIAN: I was in here yesterday. You wouldn't wait on me.
VIVIAN: You work on commission, right ?
VIVIAN: Big mistake. Big. Huge ! I have to go shopping now. She walks away, leaving the saleswoman with a very surprised look on her face. The volume of the music goes back up.
LYRICS: Pretty woman don't walk on by. The camera moves across the lobby, until it reaches Barney, the managers, talking to two of his employees, one uniformed male and one female. He has not noticed Vivian yet, because she is coming behind him.
LYRICS: Pretty woman don't make me cry. Pretty woman. Suddenly he sees her, and immediately stops talking to his Reverse angle shot of Vivian's back, walking behind the uniformed attendant, toward the elevator.
LYRICS: Don't walk away, hey. Reverse angle shot on Barney, smiling.
VIVIAN: Wait. Thank you. The attendant walks away. Vivian takes her hat off and falls into an armchair.
LYRICS: Oh, oh, pretty woman. End of the music.
PHILIP: Fellas, let's finish this up this afternoon, huh ? Edward sits down. A blonde secretary joins the leaving group.
PHILIP: Jake, set something up with Blair. Around two o'clock, two- thirty, would be good. They all go out, leaving Edward and Philip alone.
PHILIP: You were right about Morse. He mortgaged everything he owns, right down to his underwear, to secure a loan from the bank. He sits down next to Edward.
PHILIP: And it's not just any bank. Plymouth Trust, huh ?
EDWARD: Edward seems to be very pensive.
PHILIP: So, it goes without saying. that your business means a lot more to them than our friend, Mr. Morse. So, all you gotta do is call the bank. He puts his hands on the telephone.
EDWARD: Still, a very tepid reaction from Edward. He just takes a small glass and puts it in front of him on the table. Philip looks at Edward with a worried look. He stands up.
PHILIP: Edward, excuse me for saying this, but what the hell is wrong with you this week ? Are you giving Morse a chance to get away ? Edward has put another glass on top of the first one, and now he puts a third one on top of the two other ones.
EDWARD: You know what I used to love when I was a kid, Phil ? He puts a fourth glass on top of the other ones. Philip sighs.
PHILIP: What ?
EDWARD: Blocks. Building blocks. Erector sets.
PHILIP: So, I liked Monopoly. Boardwalk, Park Place. Wh-What's the point ?
EDWARD: We don't build anything, Phil. We don't make anything.
PHILIP: We make money, Edward. We worked for a year on this deal. It's what you said you wanted. I'm handing it to you. Edward looks up at Philip.
PHILIP: Morse's jugular is exposed. It's time for the kill. Let's finish this. Call the bank ! He moves the telephone toward Edward. Edward just smiles but doesn't pick up the phone.
VIVIAN: How was your day, dear ? Edward stops and looks at her.
EDWARD: Nice tie.
VIVIAN: I got it for you.
EDWARD: Then he divorced my mother to be with another woman. And he took his money with him. Vivian puts the washcloth down on the edge of the tub. She takes a Close Up shot on Edward's chest. Vivian rubs it with the sponge. EDWARD ( voice over ) And then she died. I was very angry with him. Medium shot of the tub seen from the foot of the tub.
EDWARD: It cost me ten thousands dollars in therapy to say that sentence : «I was very angry with him». I do it very well, don't I ? I'll say it again. «I was very angry with him». Vivian laughs, and Edward smiles.
EDWARD: Hello, my name is Mr. Lewis. I'm very angry with my father. The camera moves slowly around the bathtub.
VIVIAN: I would've been angry at the ten thousands dollars.
EDWARD: My father was president of the third company I ever took over. I bought it. I sold it off piece by piece.
VIVIAN: What'd the shrink say ?
EDWARD: He said I was cured. Now the camera has come near the faucet. Edward takes Vivian's hand in his.
VIVIAN: Well, so you got even. That must've made you happy. Medium shot of Edward and Vivian in the tub.
VIVIAN: Did I mention my leg is 44 inches from hip to toe, so, basically, we're talking about 88 inches of therapy. She brings her feet up and wraps her legs around Edward's body.
VIVIAN: .wrapped around you for the bargain price of. EDWARD & VIVIAN ( together ) .three thousands dollars.
VIVIAN: FADE TO :
PHILIP: Watch where you're walking, because, if you step in something, we're not going back in the car. Elizabeth is ready to set the cloth at the foot of a tree.
PHILIP: Not too near the tree. I don't like the ants. Polo players are galloping in the background. A couple approaches Philip and Elizabeth. They all shake hands.
PHILIP: Hello. Have you seen Edward anywhere ? Medium shot on Edward and Vivian standing near a car. Edward is wearing a very elegant light-grey suit, and Vivian is wearing the brown dress with white dots that we've seen her buy on Rodeo Drive. She's also wearing a very elegant beige hat with a ribbon matching her dress. And Edward is wearing the necktie Vivian gave What if someone recognizes me ? Larger shot of the couple.
VIVIAN: What if someone recognizes me ? Larger shot of the couple.
EDWARD: Not likely. They don't spend too much time on Hollywood You did. He puts his hands around Vivian's waist, to grab her hands behind her back.
VIVIAN: You did. He puts his hands around Vivian's waist, to grab her hands behind her back.
EDWARD: Come on. Let go. Let go. She eventually let him take her hands.
EDWARD: All right. You look great. You look like a lady. You're gonna have a wonderful time. Medium shot on the couple. She makes a face. He takes her hand and drags her behind him
EDWARD: Okay. Don't fidget and smile. She makes a broad smile, and walks behind him. Close shot on the players on the field. ANNOUNCER ( voice over from the P.A. ) Humboldt's coming around to this side. On the edge of the field, two well-dressed gentlemen, a young one and and older one, are watching the game. ANNOUNCER ( voice over from the P.A. ) Toquenee is on Kennan. Penalty on that play. The two gentlemen walk away from the field. The camera follows them around a platform with a canopy above it. On the platform, the announcer, a white-haired gentleman, is sitting at a table in front of a microphone. On the other side of the platform, the camera lets the two gentlemen go on their way and stops on a group of four people : Edward, Vivian, Gwen and Gretchen. The two last ones are the Olsen sisters, two very elegant blonde women, known to be the gossip champions of Los Angeles upper class society. Gwen is seated on a chair on the platform, next to the announcer, when Gretchen is standing at the foot of the platform.
EDWARD: This is Gwen and Gretchen, the infamous Olsen sisters, who have made marrying well an art form.
GWEN: Be back in just a second. Hold on. He walks away and Vivian remains with the Olsen sisters. In the background, a waiter is working on a buffet table.
EDWARD: Be back in just a second. Hold on. He walks away and Vivian remains with the Olsen sisters. In the background, a waiter is working on a buffet table.
GWEN: So, you're the flavor of the month. Hmm. She turns back to the man seated in front of the microphone. Vivian looks a little disturbed by what Gwen just said.
GRETCHEN: Uh, she's just being testy. Edward's our most eligible bachelor. Everybody is trying to land him. Vivian nods her head and answers Gretchen with a sardonic tone.
VIVIAN: Well, I'm not trying to land him. I'm just using him for She walks away. Gretchen laughs. Medium shot on the edge of the field. A middle-aged couple is seated on two chairs and looks at the game. Edward is standing behind them. The couple claps their hands and yell to support their favorite team. Vivian joins Edward behind the couple. Edward claps his hands.
EDWARD: Well done. Vivian claps her hands louder than Edward, and then yells with wide movements of her hand.
VIVIAN: Well done. Whoo, whoo, whoo ! Close shot on the couple, who turns around to look at her. Close shot on Edward and Vivian
VIVIAN: Tell me again why we're here.
EDWARD: Business mingling ?
VIVIAN: Business mingling ?
EDWARD: We hear an air-horn blowing noisily. Close Up on the field. We see the legs of a horse galloping on the Larger shot on the field with the horses galloping on it. Medium shot on a group of spectators under an open tent. Among them, Philip, with sunglasses on his nose, and a glass of Champagne in his hand. He leaves the group.
PHILIP: Excuse me. Edward ! Larger shot on another open tent across the lawn from the other one. Philip comes in and joins his wife.
PHILIP: Edward. Over here. Edward walks in with Vivian. He shakes hands with Philip.
EDWARD: Ah, good to see you.
PHILIP: Ah, good to see you.
EDWARD: Me too. I want you to meet a new friend of mine, Vivian Well, hi. Philip Stuckey, Vivian. This is my wife, Vivian shakes hands with Philip, then with Elizabeth.
PHILIP: Well, hi. Philip Stuckey, Vivian. This is my wife, Vivian shakes hands with Philip, then with Elizabeth.
ELIZABETH: It's always a pleasure meeting one of Edward's girls. A very elegant blonde lady walks toward them and then away from them. Elizabeth turns around to look at her.
ELIZABETH: Oh, my God ! It's Tate Whitley Wallington. She runs after Tate.
ELIZABETH: Tate ! It's me, Elizabeth, from Workout World. The two men and Vivian watch her go.
PHILIP: Sort of an aerobics queen. Feel the burns. Well, let me get you something to drink. Vivian, why don't you start with that. Okay ? He gives his Champagne glass to Vivian.
PHILIP: I'll be right back. Did you notice Senator Adams is here ?
EDWARD: Mm-hmm. I asked him.
PHILIP: That is why I have pledged my eternal love to you. Mmm ! He walks away.
VIVIAN: Real genuine guy. Who is he ?
EDWARD: He's my lawyer. He's all right.
VIVIAN: You could freeze ice on his wife's ass.
EDWARD: Maybe we'll try that later.
VIVIAN: Are these people your friends ?
EDWARD: I spend time with them, yeah.
VIVIAN: Well, no wonder.
EDWARD: No wonder what ?
VIVIAN: No wonder why you came looking for me. Medium shot on the announcer's platform. Gwen Olsen is speaking in the microphone.
GWEN: And I do need some help from you ladies and gentlemen in the audience. Medium shot on a group of spectators, who are walking under the white ribbon which separates the audience from the polo field. GWEN ( voice over from the P.A. ) We need you to help replace some of the divots out here on the grass. Medium shot on guests seated around a table. They all stand up, some still carrying their glass of Champagne. GWEN ( voice over from the P.A. ) So come on out now. Medium full shot on the field. All those very elegant people from the upper class society, with their glass of Champagne in hand, stomps, with their feet, on the divots on the field. ANNOUNCER ( voice over from the P.A. ) Come on ! Come on, folks. Close shot on the feet of the guests, stomping on the divots. ANNOUNCER ( voice over from the P.A. ) You heard her. The stomping of the divots. Close Up on a very elegant high-heel shoe putting a divot back in Medium full shot of the announcer's platform. The white-haired gentleman is sitting at the table on the platform, with Gwen at his side. But he is not talking in the microphone. Another bearded man, standing in front of the platform, is talking in a wireless microphone. In front of the platform, people are walking under the white ribbon to go on the field.
BEARDED ANNOUNCER: This is a time-honored tradition, ladies and gentlemen. Medium full shot of Philip, alone in front of a row of empty white folding chairs, sneezing and blowing his nose into a white ANNOUNCER ( voice over from the P.A. ) As old as the game of polo itself. Long high-angle shot of the field, where the guests are stomping the divots. Close shot on Vivian, without her hat, stomping the divots and ANNOUNCER ( voice over from the P.A. ) Kings and queens used to do this. Medium shot on Elizabeth, with a glass of Champagne in hand, talking to Edward
ELIZABETH: She's sweet, Edward. Back on Vivian, stomping the divots. ELIZABETH ( voice over ) Wherever did you find her ? Back on Edward and Elizabeth.
EDWARD: Elizabeth looks a bit surprised by Edward's joke. Back on Vivian stomping the divots. Edward joins her. Medium shot of Philip, seated on a chair, and looking at Vivian and Edward. Back to Vivian and Edward stomping the divots. Vivian laughs very loudly, and Edward takes her in his arms. Close shot on Philip, who seemed worried by what he sees. Medium full shot of Vivian seated on the trunk of a red convertible car. Her hat is on the trunk near her. A man takes one of Vivian's shoes off to clean it. A woman is standing near the car, watching the scene.
THE MAN: No, it's all part of the game of polo. You get to have your shoes polished by a member of the club. He looks at a dirty spot on the shoe.
THE MAN: I think I got something in the car that will buff that up. He walks away with the shoe.
VIVIAN: Thank you. Medium shot on David Morse walking toward Vivian. He is wearing his polo player outfit : red shirt, with the name of his team «L.A. Gems» and his number in the team «2», and white pants. He is holding his helmet, his leather gloves and his riding crops in one Vivian, hi. David Morse. Medium shot of Vivian, still seated on the car. She smiles. The woman, who was talking with her, walks away.
DAVID MORSE: Vivian, hi. David Morse. Medium shot of Vivian, still seated on the car. She smiles. The woman, who was talking with her, walks away.
THE WOMAN: Excuse me. Vivian takes her hat, jumps from the car down on the ground, and walks toward David.
VIVIAN: DAVID MORSE
DAVID MORSE: How are you ?
VIVIAN: I'm okay. David looks at the hat Vivian is holding
DAVID MORSE: I thought that was you. I like this hat.
VIVIAN: It's new. Medium shot on Philip watching Vivian talking with David Morse. His wife Elizabeth joins him. DAVID MORSE ( voice over ) Yeah ? VIVIAN ( voice over ) Yeah !
ELIZABETH: What are you looking at ?
PHILIP: Edward's date. Reverse angle shot on what Philip sees : David and Vivian talking together, seen from a distance. We can't hear what they are ELIZABETH ( voice over ) I'm going for a ride with the Ritter's in their new car. Okay, hon ? Back on Philip. Elizabeth gives Philip a kiss on the cheek
PHILIP: Elizabeth understands that Philip has not heard a word of what she just said.
ELIZABETH: Philip, I'm going to rip off all my clothes and do a naked belly dance for the polo players.
PHILIP: Have fun. Elizabeth walks away, looking a bit furious. Back on Vivian and David, as watched by Philip. They are now standing in front of David's horse, held by a young blonde girl.
DAVID MORSE: Come meet my horse, Vivian.
VIVIAN: Well, Edward's waiting for me. I don't want to.
DAVID MORSE: Come on. He's right here.
VIVIAN: Okay, I'll. Just for a second, though. She walks toward the horse, looking back to watch for Edward.
VIVIAN: I didn't know you were playing today. Medium shot of Philip and Edward walking between the stands.
EDWARD: Uh. I was asking for directions. There she was.
PHILIP: Oh, so you just ran into her ? That's great, Jesus !
PHILIP: So anyway, what does she do ? Does she. does she work ? They stop walking in front of a stand, where waiters are pouring Champagne for the guests.
EDWARD: She's in sales.
PHILIP: Sales ? That's terrific. That's good. What does she sell ?
EDWARD: Why do you want to know ?
PHILIP: Now just hear me out on this, okay ? I've known you a long time. I. I see some differences in you this week, like the tie, and, uh. I'm wondering if maybe this girl isn't the difference, especially when I see her talking to David Different angle medium shot showing, behind Edward's back, Vivian to David in the background. Edward turns around to look at them. Medium close shot on Edward looking at Vivian, and Philip, looking at Edward, with an inquisitive expression in his eye. Closer shot on David and Vivian talking together near the horse, still held by the young girl. EDWARD ( voice over ) I introduced them at dinner the other night. PHILIP ( voice over ) So what ? Now they're best friends ? Back on Edward and Philip talking together.
PHILIP: I mean, this girl appears from out of nowhere. Now she's talking to a guy whose company we're trying to buy. That's a little convenient, don't you think ?
EDWARD: Don't be ridiculous.
PHILIP: Edward, how. how do you know that this girl. hasn't attached herself to you because she's bringing information back to Morse ? This happens ! Industrial espionage.
EDWARD: Phil, Phil, Phil ! Phil, listen to me.
PHILIP: What ?
EDWARD: She's not a spy. She is a hooker.
PHILIP: Oh !
EDWARD: She is a hooker. I picked her up on Hollywood Boulevard. In your car. Philip laughs.
PHILIP: Oh, you are.
EDWARD: Yes, yes.
PHILIP: Oh, man ! He keeps on laughing louder. He snorts.
PHILIP: You know, you're the only millionaire I ever heard of. who goes looking for a bargain basement streetwalker, you know ? SENATOR ADAMS ( voice over ) Edward !
EDWARD: I'm sorry I told you. Edward walks toward Senator Adams, who is calling him. Philip keeps on laughing.
EDWARD: Senator. Senator Adams, I'm pleased you could make it. Medium shot on the Senator. Edward walks to him and shakes his Thank you. I hope the information I gave you was helpful. Back on Philip, who walks away with a laughing face. EDWARD ( voice over ) Oh, absolutely, yes, and thank you for it. Back on Edward with the senator.
SENATOR ADAMS: Thank you. I hope the information I gave you was helpful. Back on Philip, who walks away with a laughing face. EDWARD ( voice over ) Oh, absolutely, yes, and thank you for it. Back on Edward with the senator.
EDWARD: There's no change, is there ?
SENATOR ADAMS: No, it's still bogged down. Medium shot on Vivian, standing near a tree, with her hat in her hand. She is smiling. Philip walks behind her. Vivian stops smiling.
PHILIP: Having a nice time, Vivian ? She smiles again.
VIVIAN: Yeah, I'm having a great time.
PHILIP: Must be quite a change from Hollywood Boulevard, hmm ? She stops smiling and shows a very sad and worried face.
VIVIAN: What ?
PHILIP: Yeah, Edward told me. But don't worry : you're secret is safe with me. Listen, maybe, uh, you and I could get together sometime. He touches her bare arm with his sunglasses.
PHILIP: .after Edward leaves.
VIVIAN: Yeah, sure. Why not ? We sense that Vivian feels like crying, but she masters her emotions and looks at Philip.
PHILIP: We'll just have to do that, hmm ? He puts the tip of his fingers on her bare shoulder. ELIZABETH ( voice over ) Philip ! Philip turns around to look at his wife. Then he walks away. Vivian remains on the same spot, with a very sad face. GWEN ( voice over from the P.A. ) Hi, tailgaters. I'd like to mention a couple of our silver Close shot on Edward looking at Vivian. He smiles. GWEN ( voice over from the P.A. ) .Jacobs Distributors, Norrell Saddlery, and we'd like to give a great big thanks to our platinum sponsor. Back to Vivian. She doesn't look at Edward and keeps the same sullen sad face. GWEN ( voice over from the P.A. ) Edward Lewis Enterprises. Applause and air horn blowing. Vivian crosses her arms, but doesn't look at Edward. ANNOUNCER ( voice over from the P.A. ) The ball is in for chukker number four.
EDWARD: You all right ?
VIVIAN: I'm fine. She walks away.
EDWARD: Fine. That's good. Seven «fines» since we left the match. Edward picks up his mail and newspaper, and walks behind her.
EDWARD: Could I have another word, please ? The camera follows Edward in the room. In the background, across the open door of the bedroom, we see Vivian entering the bathroom.
VIVIAN: Asshole ! There's a word. She slams the bathroom door.
EDWARD: I think I liked «fine» better. Edward drops his mail and newspapers on the desk. Vivian opens the bathroom door, and stands near the open door.
VIVIAN: You know what ? Just tell me one thing : Why did you make me get all dressed up ? Edward walks toward her. The camera follows him.
EDWARD: Well, for one thing, the clothing was appropriate.
VIVIAN: No, what I mean is, if you were gonna tell everybody I'm a hooker, - why didn't you just let me wear my own clothes, okay ? Edward sits down on the bed.
EDWARD: I did not. I did not.
VIVIAN: I mean, in my own clothes, when someone like that guy Stuckey comes up to me, I can handle it, I'm prepared. Edward starts unlacing his shoes. Vivian walks away toward the living room. The camera follows her.
EDWARD: I'm very sorry. I'm not happy with Stuckey at all for saying or doing that. But he is my attorney. I've known him for ten years. Edward stands up and walks toward Vivian.
EDWARD: He thought you were some kind of an industrial spy. The guy's paranoid.
VIVIAN: What are you, my pimp now ? She puts the unopened bottle back on the table.
VIVIAN: You know, you think you can pass me around to your friends ? I'm not some little toy ! She walks away toward the bedroom.
EDWARD: Look, you're not my toy, I know you're not my toy. He walks behind her.
EDWARD: Vivian ! Vivian, I'm speaking to you. Come back here !
EDWARD: I hate to point out the obvious, but you are, in fact, a hooker ! And you are my employee !
VIVIAN: Look, you don't own me. I decide, okay ? I say who. I say when. I. I say who.
EDWARD: I refuse to spend the next three days fighting with you. I said I was sorry. I meant it. That's the end of it !
VIVIAN: I'm sorry I ever met you. She walks away into the bathroom
VIVIAN: I'm sorry I ever got into your stupid car ! He walks toward the bathroom, enters it and starts taking his tie off in front of the mirror.
EDWARD: As if you had so many more appealing options. Vivian comes back to the bathroom door, carrying a bunch of I've never had anyone make me feel as cheap as you did Somehow, I find that very hard to believe. She gets out of the bathroom with her arms full of clothes. She picks up a small handbag and puts it on her shoulder. Then she tries to pick up a larger handbag. Close shot on the handbag, stuck under an armchair. We notice that Vivian is bare feet. Vivian finally succeeds in picking up the bag and put the straps over her shoulder, on top of the smaller bag. Edward walks out of the bathroom and joins her.
VIVIAN: I've never had anyone make me feel as cheap as you did Somehow, I find that very hard to believe. She gets out of the bathroom with her arms full of clothes. She picks up a small handbag and puts it on her shoulder. Then she tries to pick up a larger handbag. Close shot on the handbag, stuck under an armchair. We notice that Vivian is bare feet. Vivian finally succeeds in picking up the bag and put the straps over her shoulder, on top of the smaller bag. Edward walks out of the bathroom and joins her.
EDWARD: Somehow, I find that very hard to believe. She gets out of the bathroom with her arms full of clothes. She picks up a small handbag and puts it on her shoulder. Then she tries to pick up a larger handbag. Close shot on the handbag, stuck under an armchair. We notice that Vivian is bare feet. Vivian finally succeeds in picking up the bag and put the straps over her shoulder, on top of the smaller bag. Edward walks out of the bathroom and joins her.
EDWARD: Where are you going ?
VIVIAN: I want my money. I want to get out of here. She crosses her arms on her bunch of clothes. She has a very sullen, sad face. Edward doesn't move for a couple of seconds, then walks to the bed, to pick up his jacket. He gets his wallet from the inside pocket of his jacket. He opens the wallet, and gets a large wad of banknotes out of it. Close up shot on the bed. We see the wad of banknotes falling on the bed. They are all hundred-dollar bills. Edward walks away toward the living room, and Vivian remains without moving with her sullen sad face. She looks down at the Close up shot on the wad of banknotes on the bed. Back to Vivian, who hasn't moved. She starts walking away toward the living room, without taking her money.
EVENING: Medium shot on Vivian, standing near the elevator, and nervously pressing on the elevator call button.
VIVIAN: Come on ! Medium close shot on Vivian. We hear the penthouse door opening, but Vivian doesn't look at it and keeps looking at the elevator in front of her. Larger shot. Edward is coming out of the penthouse, and he has left the door open. He walks toward Vivian.
EDWARD: I'm sorry. I wasn't prepared to answer questions about us. It was stupid and cruel. I didn't mean it. I don't want you to go. Will you stay the week ?
VIVIAN: Why ?
EDWARD: I saw you talking to David Morse. I didn't like it.
VIVIAN: We were just talking. He chuckles.
EDWARD: I didn't like it. The elevator bell dings. The elevator door opens, and a smiling Dennis appears.
DENNIS: Down ? Close shot on Edward's face, and then on Vivian's face. Dennis feels some tension between Edward and Vivian and stops smiling. He goes back into the elevator, presses a button and the door closes.
VIVIAN: You hurt me.
EDWARD: Don't do it again. They look at each other for a couple of seconds, then slowly, Vivian walks back to the penthouse. Edward follows her and takes one of her handbags from her shoulder. They both enters the penthouse and he closes the door behind him.
VIVIAN: Don't do it again. They look at each other for a couple of seconds, then slowly, Vivian walks back to the penthouse. Edward follows her and takes one of her handbags from her shoulder. They both enters the penthouse and he closes the door behind him.
VIVIAN: First guy I ever loved was a total nothing. Second was worse. My mom called me a bum magnet. If there was a bum within a fifty-mile radius, I was completely attracted to him. That's how I ended up here. I followed bum number Slowly, the camera moves closer to them.
EDWARD: So here I was : no money, no friends, no bum.
VIVIAN: So here I was : no money, no friends, no bum.
EDWARD: So then you chose this as your profession ?
VIVIAN: I worked at a couple fast food places, parked cars at wrestling. And I couldn't make the rent. I was too ashamed to go home. That's when I met Kit. She was a hooker and made it sound so great. So one day I did it. The camera stops moving forward, having reached a medium close shot, showing Vivian and Edward's heads and shoulders.
VIVIAN: I cried the whole time. But then I got some regulars and, you know. It's not like anybody plans this. It's not your childhood dream.
EDWARD: You could be so much more. Close shot on Vivian's face.
VIVIAN: People put you down enough, you start to believe it. Reverse shot on Edward's face.
EDWARD: I think you are a very bright, very special woman. Reverse shot on Vivian's face.
VIVIAN: The bad stuff is easier to believe. You ever notice that ?
PHILIP: No, I don't want to talk to him now. Tell him I'll call him on Monday. He walks away from the desk.
THE RECEPTIONIST: Yes, sir. A blonde female secretary walks into the room, carrying a thick pile of documents.
PHILIP: Where are you going ? Did he sign these ?
THE SECRETARY: No, he said he had to leave. Philip walks nervously across the room.
PHILIP: He had to. He meets Edward coming out of an office.
PHILIP: Edward, you can't disappear now. We're in this too deep.
EDWARD: Don't panic, Philip. Morse isn't going anywhere. I'll be back here in the morning. He stops at the reception desk.
EDWARD: Did you send the tickets to the hotel ?
THE RECEPTIONIST: Yes, sir.
EDWARD: Thank you. He starts walking out of the room.
PHILIP: Where are you going ?
EDWARD: I have a date.
PHILIP: With the hooker ? Edward stops walking. He doesn't seem very happy by what Philip just said. He slowly turns around, facing Philip.
EDWARD: Be careful, Philip. He walks away. Philip slowly turns around and walks into his PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR EVENING Medium shot of Edward standing in front of the closed bedroom door. He is very elegantly dressed in black tuxedo and bow-tie. When he hears the bedroom door opening, he crosses his arm and leans on the bar. The door opens and Vivian appears. She is very elegantly dressed in a long red evening dress. She is also wearing long white gloves. She walks into the room. She stops in front of Edward and faces him. Edward moves around her.
VIVIAN: Do I look okay ?
EDWARD: Mmm ?
VIVIAN: Mmm ?
EDWARD: Something's missing. She looks at herself and at her tight-fitting dress.
VIVIAN: Well, nothing else is gonna fit into this dress. I'll tell you that. Edward picks up a mauve-colored box on the bar.
EDWARD: Well, maybe something in this box. I don't want you to get too excited. This is only on loan. He opens the box : it's a jewel box. Vivian comes closer to the box and looks into it. What she sees looks like a very beautiful and expensive necklace. She moves her hand to touch delicately the necklace, but Edward snaps the lid of the box shut, almost squeezing her finger into it.
VIVIAN: Oh ! She bursts out laughing loudly. Edward opens the box again. Close shot in front of a mirror. Edward is fixing the necklace around Vivian's neck.
VIVIAN: They really let you borrow this from the jewelry store ?
EDWARD: I'm a very good customer.
VIVIAN: If you were gonna buy this, how much would it cost ?
EDWARD: Quarter of a million. Vivian laughs nervously.
VIVIAN: A quarter of a million dollars ? Edward turns around Vivian, and his black-colored back blocks completely our view of the scene, making some sort of fade-out / fade-in with the next scene.
VIVIAN: So, where are we going ?
EDWARD: It's a surprise.
VIVIAN: If I forget to tell you later, I had a really good time Thank you. Close shot on Dennis standing near the door of the cabin, and REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR EVENING We hear the beginning of the orchestral music of «Fallen», written and performed by Lauren Wood. Vivian and Edward are getting out of the elevator and they start crossing the lobby. Dennis comes out of the elevator to have a better look. Medium full shot on a desk. Two uniformed attendant are standing near the desk. Another man, wearing a suit, is standing behind the desk, and checking things in an open ledger. All three of them look at the passing couple. Vivian and Edward keep on walking across the lobby. He looks at her. She touches her necklace. Medium shot on the reception desk. Miss Wilson and another female receptionist are standing behind the desk, talking with a guest. They look at the couple and smile. Barney is standing near a wall tapestry, talking to a guest. He looks at the couple and seems very happy by what he sees. Back on Vivian and Edward crossing the lobby.
EDWARD: Thank you. Close shot on Dennis standing near the door of the cabin, and REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR EVENING We hear the beginning of the orchestral music of «Fallen», written and performed by Lauren Wood. Vivian and Edward are getting out of the elevator and they start crossing the lobby. Dennis comes out of the elevator to have a better look. Medium full shot on a desk. Two uniformed attendant are standing near the desk. Another man, wearing a suit, is standing behind the desk, and checking things in an open ledger. All three of them look at the passing couple. Vivian and Edward keep on walking across the lobby. He looks at her. She touches her necklace. Medium shot on the reception desk. Miss Wilson and another female receptionist are standing behind the desk, talking with a guest. They look at the couple and smile. Barney is standing near a wall tapestry, talking to a guest. He looks at the couple and seems very happy by what he sees. Back on Vivian and Edward crossing the lobby.
EDWARD: When you're not fidgeting, you look very beautiful. and very tall. Vivian laughs.
LYRICS: You're a dream coming true. I can't believe how I have. Close shot on the front left wheel of the limousine.
LYRICS: .fallen for you.
LYRICS: You are the one who's led me to the sun. Medium full shot on the car. Edward comes out of the back of the limousine. Darryl comes out of the driver's door and holds the door for Vivian, who looks surprised to see the plane.
LYRICS: How could I know.
EDWARD: You don't want to go to San Francisco in a limousine, do you ? Darryl closes the back door, and stands near the car.
LYRICS: .I was lost without you.
VIVIAN: I've never been on a plane before.
LYRICS: And I want to tell you. Edward walks, on the red carpet, toward the plane, followed by Vivian. They talk together, but the lyrics of the song cover their .you control my brain. Long shot on the runway, with the corporate jet plane taking off. The camera follows the plane.
LYRICS: .you control my brain. Long shot on the runway, with the corporate jet plane taking off. The camera follows the plane.
LYRICS: And you should know that.
LYRICS: .you are life in my veins. PILOT ( voice over ) Well, it should be a pretty smooth flight, Mr. Lewis. The weather is clear all the way up to San Francisco. We should be there in about fifty minutes.
VIVIAN: We're late.
EDWARD: No, it's all right. Opening night never starts on time.
VIVIAN: They walk near a stand, where a girl, wearing black tuxedo and bow-tie, is distributing programs. Edward takes a program.
EDWARD: Thank you.
USHER: Right this way, Mr. Lewis, sir. Vivian enters first, followed by Edward. Vivian looks down from the balustrade of the box. Edward shakes hand with Doris, an old lady in the next box.
EDWARD: Edward, how are you ?
DORIS: Edward, how are you ?
EDWARD: How nice to see you. Nice to see you. The camera starts going away and down from the box.
EDWARD: He shakes hands with Doris' husband.
DORIS' HUSBAND: Good evening, Edward.
EDWARD: Wonderful news. Congratulations. Meanwhile, Vivian has moved to the corner of the balustrade.
VIVIAN: Hey, come here. You gotta look at this. Medium close shot on the box. Edward, who, as we already know it, is afraid of heights, doesn't want to move any closer to the It's all right. I've already seen it.
EDWARD: It's all right. I've already seen it.
VIVIAN: If you're afraid of heights, why do you get seats up here ?
EDWARD: Because they're the best. He sits down, and Vivian also sits down. The ushers, who had remained behind them, slightly bends down toward Edward.
USHER: Is there anything else, sir ?
EDWARD: No, thank you. He shows them something underneath the balustrade, and then moves The glasses are there. Enjoy the opera.
USHER: The glasses are there. Enjoy the opera.
VIVIAN: Oh ! She picks up the opera glasses.
VIVIAN: So, you said this is in Italian. She tries to look through the glasses, but doesn't succeed in setting them right on their handle.
EDWARD: So how am I gonna know what they're singing. These are Edward takes the glasses from Vivian's hand.
VIVIAN: So how am I gonna know what they're singing. These are Edward takes the glasses from Vivian's hand.
VIVIAN: Mine are broken.
EDWARD: No, no. That's okay It's all right. He sets them right on their handle, and gives them back to Vivian.
VIVIAN: You'll know. Believe me, you'll understand. Vivian looks through the glasses, while the lights are switching off and on, to warn the spectators that the opera is about to The music's very powerful. Mediums full shot on the two next boxes on the right of Edward's box. The spectators, who understood the lights signal, are sitting Back to Edward's box. Medium close shot on Vivian and Edward. Vivian is looking through her glasses.
EDWARD: You'll know. Believe me, you'll understand. Vivian looks through the glasses, while the lights are switching off and on, to warn the spectators that the opera is about to The music's very powerful. Mediums full shot on the two next boxes on the right of Edward's box. The spectators, who understood the lights signal, are sitting Back to Edward's box. Medium close shot on Vivian and Edward. Vivian is looking through her glasses.
EDWARD: The music's very powerful. Mediums full shot on the two next boxes on the right of Edward's box. The spectators, who understood the lights signal, are sitting Back to Edward's box. Medium close shot on Vivian and Edward. Vivian is looking through her glasses.
VIVIAN: There's a band ! Medium shot on the two other boxes. The light are definitely switched off, and ushers are closing the curtains on the exit Back to Vivian and Edward. We hardly see them in the dark.
EDWARD: People's reactions to opera the first time they see it is very dramatic. They either love it or they hate it. If they love it, they will always love it. If they don't, they may learn to appreciate it, but it will never become part of their soul.
VIVIAN: The orchestra plays the overture of «La Traviata». The lights, coming from the stage, enable us to see Vivian and Edward's faces. Vivian is smiling broadly. Edward is concentrated on the music and serious. Close shot on Vivian's face. Still smiling broadly, she turns briefly toward Edward, and then goes back looking at the stage. She bends down on the balustrade to have a better look at the SAN FRANCISCO OPERA HOUSE - STAGE - INTERIOR NIGHT The sets and the costumes are beautiful and very classic in their design. We see and hear the Love Duet of Act One in Violetta's sitting room. Violetta walks to the forefront of the stage, and the camera moves away from her, showing, seen from the stage, Edward and Vivian in their box. The picture and the music dissolve to the Second Act in Violetta's garden. Violetta is bending on Alfredo and singing.
DORIS: Did you enjoy the opera, dear ?
VIVIAN: Oh, it was so good, I almost peed in my pants.
DORIS: What ? She seems a bit surprised by what she just heard. Vivian walks away, and Edward turns toward Doris.
EDWARD: She said she liked it better than Pirates of Penzance.
DORIS: Oh ! Edward walks away, leaving a very pensive Doris. Apparently she doesn't completely believe Edward's translation of Vivian's words !
EDWARD: Yes. Good-bye now. Still very pensive, Doris absently waves her hand to him.
VIVIAN: Why don't you not go to work tomorrow. Take the day off.
EDWARD: Me, not work ?
VIVIAN: I do own the company. The picture dissolves into :
EDWARD: I do own the company. The picture dissolves into :
SECRETARY: Here are the storage reports you wanted, and Mr. Lewis Philip doesn't take the documents and she puts them on the desk.
PHILIP: What'd he say ?
SECRETARY: He said he's taking the day off. Philip looks very surprised.
PHILIP: He's taking the day off ?
SECRETARY: That's what he said. She walks away, leaving a very perplexed Philip.
VIVIAN: I'm starving. There's a snap dog vendor over there. Do you have any money ? She jumps down from the low wall and takes Edward's arm.
EDWARD: I have money. I don't know what a snap dog is, but I have Well, I'm gonna give, um. you'll buy a snap dog. We'll cop a squat under a tree somewhere.
VIVIAN: Well, I'm gonna give, um. you'll buy a snap dog. We'll cop a squat under a tree somewhere.
EDWARD: Cop a what ?
VIVIAN: Cop a squat. Later on a lawn in the park. Medium close shot on a tartan red blanket spread on the lawn. Vivian is kneeling on the blanket, with Edward seated next to her. She has already taken one of Edward's shoes and socks off, and she is taking the other sock off. Edward is talking on his cellphone.
EDWARD: All right, read the first two pages. Medium full shot of the lawn. We see that Vivian and Edward are sitting under a tree. Vivian takes the other sock off.
EDWARD: Okay. Mmm. Vivian stands up, and takes Edward's cellphone away from his ear, and shuts it.
EDWARD: I was talking to someone. The picture dissolves into :
EDWARD: Did you know that two of the Bach pieces that we heard tonight. were found by Felix Mendelssohn in a butcher's shop ? They were wrapping meat with the sheet music. Vivian is not listening to Edward and she keeps looking through the car window. She seems nervous.
EDWARD: What's with you ? You're fidgeting. What's wrong ?
VIVIAN: Um. There's a club up here that I'd like to stop into for a second to see my roommate, if that's okay ?
EDWARD: He raises his voice.
EDWARD: Darryl !
VIVIAN: Uh, Darryl, can you just pull up into the back alleyway, please ?
EDWARD: You say this is a nice place. I'm sure it's a very nice He closes the door of the car.
VIVIAN: I just wanna run in for a minute and see if she's there, so just stay here. A quick shot on people exchanging «things», maybe drugs. Back to the limousine.
VIVIAN: I'm hoping they don't spot this limousine as it is.
EDWARD: I'll block it with my body. He leans on the limousine. Vivian walks away toward the entrance of the night club.
LYRICS: Fame makes a man who'll take things over. Fame Lets him loose and hard to swallow. Vivian enters the room, looking for Kit.
LYRICS: Fame puts you there where things are hollow. Customers start looking at Vivian, and at her elegant dress.
A CUSTOMER: Hey, Viv, you looking good, man. What'd you win, the lottery or what ? Vivian walks toward Rachel, one of the dancing girls.
VIVIAN: Hey, Rachel, have you seen Kit ?
RACHEL: No, not since, uh, Tuesday. Hey, and Carlos is looking for her too. A CUSTOMER ( voice over ) Hiya, honey, you look great. Vivian walks toward the bar and Pops, the bartender, standing behind it.
VIVIAN: Hi, Pops. Thanks. Have you seen Kit ?
POPS: I think she went to Santa Barbara. End of music.
EDWARD: We hear the muffled sound of the music, coming from the club.
VIVIAN: Here's my number where I'm gonna be for the rest of the week. Have her call me or come by, okay ?
POPS: Okay, honey. Thanks.
VIVIAN: She walks away from the bar.
LYRICS: Fame, what you like is in the limo. Fame. Mediums shot of Vivian coming out of the club. On the door, a sign says «I.D. Required». Vivian stops when she sees the strange crowd around Edward, then she starts walking again. She stops when she gets near Edward. Among the tough-looking guys around Edward, we recognize Carlos, still wearing his eternal hat, and another guy, one of Carlos' lieutenants, wearing a leather jacket, and holding a long stick in his hands.
VIVIAN: What's going on out here ?
EDWARD: I don't know. You left and all of a sudden I'm in the middle of West Side Story.
CARLOS: I think you owe me some money, baby.
EDWARD: Why don't you go to school tomorrow ? A girl, standing behind the group, starts giggling very stupidly.
CARLOS: Now I hear you got yourself a new job ?
VIVIAN: Let's just leave. She starts walking away, but Carlos puts himself in her way.
CARLOS: You ain't going no place. Edward takes a step forward.
EDWARD: Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. The guy, standing next to Carlos, takes a very long knife out of his skateboard.
CARLOS: You're out of your neighborhood, home boy. This ain't no Beverly Hills !
EDWARD: I don't believe this. He has this knife coming out of his skateboard. He's going to stab me. He turns toward the guy with the stick.
EDWARD: What are you gonna do, you gonna strangle me with a Slinky ? The stupid girl giggles again. Carlos turns toward her.
CARLOS: Shut up !
EDWARD: All right, okay, this is what's happening. You believe that this person owes you money, right, two hundred dollars ?
CARLOS: That's right.
EDWARD: Why ?
CARLOS: Because this is my block. Edward turns toward Vivian.
EDWARD: His block ?
VIVIAN: He's a drug dealer. It has to do with Kit. Let's just go, She starts walking away. But Carlos is in their way.
CARLOS: Edward. So how's it feel to be a trick ?
EDWARD: I am not a trick. This is a trick. He points his hand toward Darry.
EDWARD: Darryl ! Left pocket. Medium close shot on Darryl, standing near the limousine. He opens his jacket, revealing a holster with a gun inside. Back to the group around Vivian and Edward.
EDWARD: Isn't that incredible ? And he does have a permit. Thank you, gentlemen. He pushes Vivian in front of him and crosses the group. He stops a couple of seconds near Carlos.
EDWARD: Don't you ever go near her again.
VIVIAN: He sleeps. Reverse close shot on Edward asleep half-sitting in the bed. He is bare-chested. Vivian walks between him and the camera. She sits down on the bed. Reverse close shot on Vivian's face. She is smiling. She gently kisses her index finger. Medium shot of Vivian and Edward. Vivian puts her finger on Edward's lips. She slowly bends down toward his face, and kisses him on the cheek, hesitates a second, then kisses him on the lips. He slowly wakes up, and blinks his eyes. He answers to Vivian's kisses. He raises up from the bed, kissing Vivian passionately. The camera moves around the bed, while the couple is lying on it, kissing passionately. Vivian removes her nightdress, and goes back kissing Edward. The camera tilts down from the head of the bed. Edward is asleep, holding Vivian is his arm. She is still awake and smiling. She gently strokes his arm.
VIVIAN: I love you. She closes her eyes.
EDWARD: The fact that this will be our last night together, and you'll finally be rid of me.
VIVIAN: Well, you've been pretty tough to take. She sits down on a chair.
EDWARD: My business is almost over, so I'll be going back to New Quick close shot on Vivian's face, who seems very pensive. Back to Edward.
EDWARD: I'd really like to see you again. Vivian smiles.
VIVIAN: You would ?
EDWARD: Yes. Yes, I would, so I've arranged for you to have an apartment, to have a car. Vivian's smiling face saddens a bit.
EDWARD: .to have a wide variety of stores guaranteed to suck up to you anytime you want to go shopping. Everything's done. Vivian takes her head in her hand and bends down on the table. She What else ? You gonna leave some money by the bed when you pass through town ?
VIVIAN: What else ? You gonna leave some money by the bed when you pass through town ?
EDWARD: Vivian, it really wouldn't be like that.
VIVIAN: How would it be ?
EDWARD: Well, for one thing, it would get you off the streets.
VIVIAN: That's just geography. Vivian stands up and walks to the terrace.
EDWARD: What do you see happening between us ? Back to Vivian bending over the balustrade.
VIVIAN: I don't know. When I was a little girl, my mama used to lock me in the attic when I was bad, which was pretty often. And I would. I would pretend I was a princess. trapped in a tower by a wicked queen. Edward is seriously listening to Vivian. VIVIAN ( voice over ) And then suddenly this knight. Back to Vivian bending over the balustrade.
VIVIAN: .on a white horse with these colors flying would come charging up and draw his sword. And I would wave. And he would climb up the tower and rescue me. She walks away from the balustrade and toward Edward.
VIVIAN: But never in all the time. that I had this dream did the knight say to me, «Come on, baby, I'll put you up in a great condo». The phone rings inside the penthouse. After a couple of seconds, Edward walks into the penthouse, and picks up the phone.
EDWARD: Vivian starts walking into the room.
PHILIP: I just got off the phone with James Morse. Get this.
EDWARD: What about ? PHILIP ( voice over on the phone ) He wouldn't say.
PHILIP: Edward, I think we got him. His nuts are on the block. We got him ! He slams his towel on the counter.
EDWARD: No, it's no good. If he's really caving in, I don't want to wait until this afternoon. Have Morse meet me downtown this morning. Good-bye. He puts the phone down and grabs his jacket from a chair. He puts his jacket on while walking toward Vivian.
EDWARD: I have to go now, but I want you to understand. I heard everything you said. This is all I'm capable of right now. It's a very big step for me. She absently straightened his tie.
VIVIAN: I know. It's a really good offer for a girl like me.
EDWARD: I've never treated you like a prostitute. He looks at her, then walks away toward the front door. Out of his hearing, Vivian whispers :
VIVIAN: You just did. We hear the front door closing.
BARNEY: It's Barnard Thompson here, Miss Vivian. The camera keeps on panning and we discover Kit, chewing gum, and looking in a bad mood. On the top half of her body, she is only wearing a bra made into a fabric with a panther-skin motif
BARNEY: Could you come down to the front desk ? There's someone here who wants to speak to you. She says her name is Miss De Luca. Kit extends her hand to take the phone.
KIT: Let me talk to her. Let me. Let me just talk to her. Barney gives the phone to Kit.
KIT: Yo, Viv, babe. Would you come down here ? The sphincter police won't let me through. Okay. She gives the phone back to Barney.
KIT: She's on her way.
BARNEY: An uniformed attendant walks to the counter.
THE ATTENDANT: Mr. Thompson. Barney turns toward him and Kit replaces the phone receiver on its The window washer is refusing to come down. The attendant walks away.
BARNEY: THE ATTENDANT
THE ATTENDANT: The window washer is refusing to come down. The attendant walks away.
BARNEY: It's a Saturday. Wait here, please. ( to Miss Wilson ) Watch her. Barney walks away. MISS WILSON ( voice over ) Yes, sir. Kit bends down on the counter polished surface and blows on it. Miss Wilson looks at her with a perplexed eye. Kit stands up and smiles to Miss Wilson. Further along the counter, a couple of middle-aged customers stare at her. She turns her face toward them.
KIT: Fifty bucks, Grandpa. For seventy-five, the wife can watch. The couple walks away. Miss Wilson looks at the leaving couple, then looks at Kit with a suppressed smile. Kit smiles back at her.
VIVIAN: Listen, I've been calling you.
KIT: Yeah, I know. They told me at the Banana you were looking for me.
VIVIAN: You were supposed to come by Tuesday. I left the money at the desk.
KIT: I was hiding out from Carlos.
VIVIAN: Well, if you picked up the money, you wouldn't have to Hey, I was busy. I had a life, you know. Nino got beat up. We had to visit him in the hospital. Rachel got arrested. It was a mess. Anyway, I got the money. Kit waves the envelope with the money inside.
KIT: Hey, I was busy. I had a life, you know. Nino got beat up. We had to visit him in the hospital. Rachel got arrested. It was a mess. Anyway, I got the money. Kit waves the envelope with the money inside.
KIT: Thank you very much for saving my ass. Now Carlos can get off of it. Now the two girls have reached the bottom of the stair, and they are walking between the dinner tables surrounding the pool.
KIT: You know, he was talking about you last night. He would bust something if he saw you in this outfit. Reverse shot. The camera is a couple of yards in front of Vivian and Kit, and we see the two girls coming toward us.
KIT: I was afraid to hug you up there. I might wrinkle you ! Vivian lets go of Kit's arm and laughs.
KIT: You look really good. Vivian points to a table.
KIT: No, something with shade. Vivian points to another table.
KIT: You clean up real nice. You sure don't fit in down on the Boulevard looking like you do, not that you ever did. Kit sits down. Then Vivian also sits down.
VIVIAN: Well, thanks, but it's easy to clean up when you got money.
KIT: Yeah. So, when does he leave ?
VIVIAN: You get to keep the clothes ?
KIT: You get to keep the clothes ?
VIVIAN: Yeah. Edward asked me if I wanted to see him again. But I think. I think definitely no. I mean, it's just another week, right ? Kit has put her chewing gum into a teaspoon and she puts the spoon on the table.
KIT: «Definitely no».
VIVIAN: Kits looks worried.
KIT: Oh, no.
VIVIAN: What ?
KIT: I know this weepy look on your face.
VIVIAN: Oh, no, you don't !
KIT: You fell in love with him.
VIVIAN: No. Kit, please. Stop it.
KIT: You've fallen in love with him ?
VIVIAN: Kit !
KIT: Did you kiss him ? On the mouth ?
VIVIAN: Uh, yeah, yeah. I did.
KIT: You kissed him on the mouth ?
VIVIAN: I did. It was nice.
KIT: You fall in love with him, and you kiss him on the mouth. Did I not teach you anything ?
VIVIAN: Look, I'm not stupid, okay ? I'm. I'm not in love with him. I just. I like him.
KIT: You like him ?
VIVIAN: You definitely like him. Well, he's not a bum. He's a rich, classy guy.
KIT: You definitely like him. Well, he's not a bum. He's a rich, classy guy.
VIVIAN: Who's gonna break my heart, right ?
KIT: Oh, no. Come on. You don't know that. Hey, he asked you, right ? Maybe you guys could, like, um, you know, get a house together. Like, buy some diamonds and a horse. I don't know. Vivian laughs.
KIT: Anyway, it could work. It happens.
VIVIAN: When does it happen, Kit ? When does it really happen ? Who does it really work out for ? Did it work out for Skinny Marie or Rachel ? No !
KIT: Those were very specific cases of crackheads.
VIVIAN: I just wanna know who it works out for. You give me one example of somebody that we know that it happened for.
KIT: Name someone ?
VIVIAN: Yeah, one person that it worked out for.
KIT: You want me to give you a name or something.
VIVIAN: Yeah. I'd like to know. Kit presses her hands on her temples.
KIT: Oh, God, the pressure of a name. She sighs and takes her hands out of her temples.
KIT: Vivian laughs. Kit starts laughing too.
THE FATHER: Winner gets a piggy-back. Come on, saddle up, boy. He bends down for his son to climb on his back. The son jumps on his back. The father sighs. Back on Edward, standing in the middle of the stairway, and looking at the father with a smile. THE FATHER ( voice over ) Oh, Zachary ! Too many doughnuts. Father and son laugh. Edward starts walking again. Long shot on the large terrace in front of the building. Edward is crossing it toward the entrance. He slows down to give a last look the the father and his son.
PHILIP: Mr. Morse, you said this morning you wished to speak to Mr. Lewis. Mr. Lewis is now listening. Edward is pacing up and down in front of the bay window.
JAMES MORSE: I've reconsidered my position on your acquisition offer. on one condition. I'm not so concerned about me, but the people who are working for me.
PHILIP: It's not a problem. They'll be taken care of. Well, then, gentlemen. If we could address ourselves to the contracts in front of you. If you look at. Edward hardly listens to what Philip says. He seems worried. He raises a hand.
EDWARD: Excuse me, Phil. Philip looks up at him.
EDWARD: Gentlemen, I'd like to speak to Mr. Morse alone. Thank you. Philip seems surprised by what Edward just said. A bit reluctantly, he says :
PHILIP: All right, gentlemen, you heard the man. Please wait All the assistants stand up to leave the room.
EDWARD: You too, Phil. Philip, still seated, looks up at Edward. He looks very surprised and chuckles nervously.
PHILIP: What do you mean ?
EDWARD: I mean I would like to speak to Mr. Morse alone. Philip stands up and points toward David Morse.
PHILIP: Why does he get to stay ? James Morse makes a discreet sign to his grand-son to enjoin him to leave the room. Edward and Philip are standing, facing each other.
EDWARD: Please, please. Reluctantly, Philip starts moving away.
PHILIP: I'll be right outside.
EDWARD: Philip leaves the room, followed by David.
EDWARD: Is that better ?
JAMES MORSE: It's all right. Medium shot of Edward standing near the coffee table.
EDWARD: Would you like a cup of coffee ?
JAMES MORSE: Edward takes the coffee pot to pour the coffee. He sighs loudly.
EDWARD: Mr. Morse, my interests in your company have changed.
JAMES MORSE: What is it you're after now, Mr. Lewis ? Edward brings the cup on the table in front of James.
EDWARD: Well, I no longer wish to buy your company and take it apart. But I don't want anyone else to, either. And it is still extremely vulnerable. So I find myself. in unfamiliar territory. I want to help you.
JAMES MORSE: Why ?
EDWARD: Mr. Morse, I think we can do something very special with your company.
JAMES MORSE: What about our Navy contracts ?
EDWARD: Ah, they weren't dead. Just delayed. I. bluffed a little Medium shot of James, who chuckles.
JAMES MORSE: You're very good at it.
EDWARD: Thank you very much. It's my job. He bends down and chuckles. Then he stands up from his chair.
EDWARD: I think we can leave the details up to the others. More slowly than Edward, James stands up.
JAMES MORSE: I find this hard to say without sounding condescending, but. I'm proud of you. He puts his hand on Edward's shoulder. Edward seems moved by this Thank you. I think we can let in the other suits now.
EDWARD: Thank you. I think we can let in the other suits now.
EDWARD: Let's continue the meeting. He goes back into the meeting room, followed by Philip, David and all the assistants. Through the open door, we see James Morse, standing at the back of the room, near Edward's chair. He motions to the men to sit down.
JAMES MORSE: Come in, gentlemen. Sit down.
PHILIP: Edward, please, what was this all about ? Hmm ? Edward slaps him on the arm.
EDWARD: It's all yours, Phil. Finish it up.
JAMES MORSE: Great big ships. Close shot on Philip. He doesn't look very happy about this unexpected situation.
EDWARD: You know, I think I'm gonna go for a walk. Just stay here for a while. I'll be back.
DARRYL: Yes, sir, Mr. Lewis. Darryl sits down on the hood of the car, holding the briefcase in his arms.
PHILIP: Well, well. Hello again. I'm looking for Edward.
VIVIAN: Edward's not here. I thought he was with you.
PHILIP: No. Uh, Edward is definitely not with me. He walks in without waiting for Vivian to invite him in. He chuckles. Vivian closes the front door.
PHILIP: No, if Edward were with me. He puts his briefcase down on the floor and walks into the room.
PHILIP: When. Actually, when. Edward was with me, he didn't blow off billion dollar deals ! He walks to the bar and helps himself for a drink.
PHILIP: I think that, uh, Edward's with you. That's what I think. Mind if I have a drink ? He pours whisky in a glass without waiting for Vivian's answer.
VIVIAN: He holds the glass toward her.
VIVIAN: No, thank you. She walks away from him.
PHILIP: Well, I'll just wait. She sits down on the sofa, crosses her legs on the couch and starts writing in a notebook. Behind him, Philip sits down on a stool near the bar.
VIVIAN: Uh, Edward will be back soon. Any minute, he'll be home. Medium shot on Philip at the bar. He stands up and slowly walks toward her. The camera follows him.
PHILIP: You know.
PHILIP: You're a hooker. Maybe you're a very good hooker, you know ? She puts her notebook on the low table.
PHILIP: Maybe if I do you, then I wouldn't care about losing millions of dollars. Because I have to be very honest with you right now, Vivian. He moves slightly closer to her. She seems very tense by the Right now I really do care. I really do. And right now I am really pissed, you know ? He moves his hand toward her bare leg. She glares at him.
PHILIP: Right now I really do care. I really do. And right now I am really pissed, you know ? He moves his hand toward her bare leg. She glares at him.
PHILIP: Right now I am just freaking out. So maybe if I screw you, He puts his hand between her legs. She moves it away.
PHILIP: .and take you to the opera, then I could be a happy guy, just like Edward. He keeps on trying to fondle her, and Vivian keeps on trying to get rid of him.
VIVIAN: Hey, get off me ! They start fighting. He stands up.
PHILIP: Hey, hey ! Goddamn it ! She bites his hand.
PHILIP: Ow ! He slaps her face very hard. She falls down on the floor.
VIVIAN: Ow ! He kneels down beside her and grabs her.
PHILIP: Come on ! Come on ! I'll pay for it.
PHILIP: How much is it ? Twenty bucks, thirty bucks ?
PHILIP: Fifty ? You a fifty dollars whore, Vivian ? Edward, who has come silently into the room, grabs him from behind, and forces him to stand up.
PHILIP: What are you doing ? Get off ! Quick shot on Vivian slowly getting up from the floor. Back on Philip and Edward fighting.
EDWARD: Stop. I don't want to hurt you ! Stop it !
PHILIP: I don't know how to tell you this. You already did, Edward ! Edward pushes him toward the front door, which is still open.
PHILIP: All right, all right.
EDWARD: Out. Out of here. Philip falls down on the floor. He slowly stands back up
PHILIP: Look, she's a whore, man. She's a goddamn. Aah ! Edward very violently punches him in the face. Philip falls down on the floor. Quick shot on Vivian, seated on the sofa. She starts when she sees Edward punching Philip. Philip slowly stands up, his hand on his face. Edward looks at his hand, who seems to hurt him after the violent punch he gave to Aah ! Damn. Shit. Goddamn ! He picks up Philip's briefcase and throws it through the open door. It falls on the floor of the hallway.
EDWARD: Aah ! Damn. Shit. Goddamn ! He picks up Philip's briefcase and throws it through the open door. It falls on the floor of the hallway.
PHILIP: I think you broke my nose.
EDWARD: Get out of here.
EDWARD: That's bullshit. This is such bullshit ! It's the kill you love, not me ! I made you a very rich man doing exactly what you loved. Now get out of here !
VIVIAN: Wham ! And it feels like your eye is gonna explode. What do they do ? Do they pull you aside in high school and show you how to do this ? We see Edward's hand holding the napkin with the ice inside. He puts it on Vivian's cheek.
VIVIAN: Is that. Ow ! Even the light touch of the napkin seems to hurt her. The camera moves slowly away, widening the shot, and showing Edward in shirtsleeves bending over Vivian, without her jacket, and lying on the sofa.
EDWARD: Not all guys hit.
VIVIAN: I heard about what you did with Morse.
EDWARD: That was a business decision.
VIVIAN: It was good.
EDWARD: It felt good.
VIVIAN: I think this is okay. She moves his hand away, and slowly sits up in the sofa.
VIVIAN: I gotta get going.
EDWARD: Yes, I noticed you're packed. Why are you leaving now ?
VIVIAN: Edward, there'll always be some guy, even some friend of yours, thinking he can treat me like Stuckey, thinking that it's allowed. What are you gonna do ? You gonna beat up everybody ?
EDWARD: That's not why you're leaving. She stands up from the sofa. Full shot on the sofa, with Vivian standing up and Edward still Look, you made me a really nice offer. And a few months ago, no problem. But now everything is different, and you've changed that. And you can't change back. I want Edward stands up from the sofa.
VIVIAN: Look, you made me a really nice offer. And a few months ago, no problem. But now everything is different, and you've changed that. And you can't change back. I want Edward stands up from the sofa.
EDWARD: I know about wanting more. I invented the concept. The question is how much more.
VIVIAN: I want the fairy tale.
EDWARD: Impossible relationships. Vivian has put her jacket back on and she is putting her shoes on, seated on the step that goes across the room.
EDWARD: My special gift is impossible relationships. Full shot on the room. Edward has taken his wallet, and he is taking money out of it. He throws the wallet on a table and sits down on the steps next to Vivian. Medium shot on the steps. Edward gives the money to Vivian.
EDWARD: Thank you.
VIVIAN: You're welcome. She puts the money in the pocket of her jacket. He is holding a business card in his hand. If you ever need anything. dental floss, whatever. you give me a call. They both chuckle.
VIVIAN: I had a good time.
EDWARD: Me too. She stands up from the steps, and starts collecting her luggage. Edward, who had remained seated on the steps, stands up.
EDWARD: Do you want me to get you a bellboy ? She is putting the garment bags on her arm.
VIVIAN: No, I got it. He bends down to pick up a bag.
EDWARD: I'll carry this.
VIVIAN: She starts moving toward the front door. He walks ahead of her and starts opening the door, then closes it.
EDWARD: Stay. Stay the night with me. And not because I'm paying you, but because you want to.
VIVIAN: I can't. She seems very sad. She opens the door. He holds it for her.
EDWARD: She starts moving out, then stops and smiles to him
VIVIAN: I think you have a lot of special gifts.
EDWARD: Edward closes the door without looking at her.
THE ATTENDANT: I didn't do it, sir.
BARNEY: No, no. Now, I didn't say that. I want you to call maintenance and have them deal with this. You must delegate Vivian's legs walk in and stop between the two men.
THE ATTENDANT: Yes, sir.
VIVIAN: Hi, Barney. The camera tilts up and we see the faces of all of those three people. The two men stand up
BARNEY: Miss Vivian. The attendant doesn't move away and looks at Vivian with a light smile. Barney looks at him.
BARNEY: Thank you. The attendant walks away.
VIVIAN: I wanted to say good-bye.
BARNEY: Well, then, I gather you're not accompanying Mr. Lewis to New York.
VIVIAN: Come on, Barney. You and me live in the real world. most of the time.
BARNEY: Have you arranged for transportation ?
VIVIAN: I'm gonna call a cab.
BARNEY: Allow me. He points to Darryl, whom we don't see, and calls him.
BARNEY: DARRYL ( voice over ) Yes, sir. Darryl walks near Vivian.
BARNEY: Please take Miss Vivian anywhere she wishes to go.
DARRYL: Yes, sir. Darry walks away. Vivian holds her hand out to Barney. Barney bends down and lightly kisses the extended hand. Then he shakes It's been a pleasure knowing you. Come and visit us again Stay cool. She slaps him on the arm and walks away. Barney turns around and looks at her walking away.
BARNEY: It's been a pleasure knowing you. Come and visit us again Stay cool. She slaps him on the arm and walks away. Barney turns around and looks at her walking away.
VIVIAN: Stay cool. She slaps him on the arm and walks away. Barney turns around and looks at her walking away.
LYRICS: Lay a whisper On my pillow. Leave the winter On the ground. Vivian turns around to have a last look at the hotel.
LYRICS: I wake up lonely. Vivian turns back and look absently in front of her, with the same pensive, slightly sad, look on her face.
LYRICS: .The stare of silence In the bedroom And all around. Touch me now.
LYRICS: I close my eyes And dream away. The scene dissolves into :
LYRICS: It must have been love, But it's over now. It must have been good. He walks away from the balustrade, and back into the penthouse.
LYRICS: .But I lost it somehow. It must have been love, But it's over now. The camera lets Edward go inside the penthouse and pans to the right along the wall and the foliage decorating the terrace. The picture dissolves into the foliage on the other side of the French window and :
LYRICS: From the moment we touched, Till the time had run out. The camera pans to the left from the foliage to a medium shot on the window. Edward comes out on the terrace. He is fully dressed in an elegant grey suit. The camera follows Edward. We hear some thunder rumbling in the distance. Edward moves to the balustrade. He is holding a jewel case in his hand. It is the one with Vivian's necklace inside. A bell boy is coming out on the terrace. He has some luggage in his hands.
BELL BOY: Is that everything, sir ?
EDWARD: Yes. Yes, that's everything.
BELL BOY: I'll meet you downstairs, sir.
EDWARD: Thank you. The bell boy walks away from the terrace, carrying luggage. More thunder and end of the music.
KIT: We look so dopey. Medium shot inside the room. Kit is seated near the window, holding a Teddy Bear on her laps. She stands up.
KIT: San Francisco's not that great, you know. She walks toward Vivian, who is wearing slacks, a white T-shirt and a dark jacket. Her hair is tied into a bun.
KIT: It's bad climate. It's foggy. It's unpredictable. The camera moves back into a full shot of the room. Vivian is putting things away in a bag.
VIVIAN: I'll wear a sweater.
KIT: What are you gonna do there ? She sits down.
VIVIAN: Get a job. Finish high school. I got things I can do. I used to make pretty good grades in high school.
KIT: Yeah, I could see that about you. I could see that. She turns around to face Kit.
VIVIAN: Sure you won't come with me ? Kit looks around her.
KIT: And leave all this ? Not in a million. She laughs.
VIVIAN: Come here. Kit stands up, puts the Teddy Bear down, and walks toward her. Vivian takes some money out of her pocket. She puts the money in the breast pocket of Kit's denim jacket.
KIT: Whoa. Whoa. What is this ?
VIVIAN: It's part of the Edward Lewis scholarship fund. We think you got a lot of potential, Kit De Luca.
KIT: You do ? You think I got potential ?
VIVIAN: Oh, yeah. Don't let anybody tell you different, okay ?
KIT: Vivian is crying.
VIVIAN: Take care of you. She puts a cap on Kit's head.
KIT: No, I can't, I can't. It's your favorite. She takes it off and gives it back to Vivian. She walks away.
KIT: What time's your bus ?
VIVIAN: An hour.
KIT: Yeah, well, I gotta split, 'cause good-byes make me crazy. So, take care of you. She hugs Vivian.
VIVIAN: Vivian slaps Kit's back, and then kisses her on the head.
BARNEY: Mr. Lewis.
EDWARD: You don't have any messages for me, do you ?
BARNEY: No, I'm afraid not, sir. Edward starts signing some documents on the counter.
EDWARD: I'll need a car to the airport also.
BARNEY: Of course. Darryl will take you wherever you need to go. Darryl walks to the desk.
BARNEY: Darryl, the limousine out front, please ?
DARRYL: Yes, sir.
BARNEY: Thank you, Darryl. Darryl walks away. Edward pushes the signed documents across the counter to Barney.
EDWARD: One last thing.
BARNEY: Edward gives the jewel box to Barney.
EDWARD: If you could possibly return this to Fred's for me, please.
BARNEY: Yes, of course. May I, sir ? Edward chuckles.
EDWARD: Of course, please. Barney opens the jewel box. Close up on the necklace in the box. It is the one Vivian was wearing at the Opera. Close shot on Edward looking at the necklace with a sad face. Then medium close shot on Barney, with a half-smile on his face.
BARNEY: It must be difficult to let go of something so beautiful. Close up shot on the jewel box being closed by Barney. Back to Barney.
BARNEY: You know, Darryl also drove Miss Vivian home yesterday. Edward doesn't answer, but his face indicates he has taken the information in. Back to Barney.
BARNEY: I'll take care of it.
EDWARD: Thank you, Mr. Thompson. Edward walks away, followed by the bell boy carrying his luggage. Barney looks at him with a puzzled eye.
KIT: I'm gonna have to charge you a little more rent than Vivian. because I've got this beauty course I'm looking into. I'm not gonna be there that much, you know ? Full shot showing the whole sidewalk with the food stand in the middle. On the right of the food stand, a very small temporary flower stand in front of a closed shop. While Kit keeps on talking to her prospective roommate, Edward walks behind them.
KIT: 'Cause you can't. You just can't turn tricks forever. You gotta have a goal. Do you have a goal ? Closer shot on the flower stand and the florist, a middle-aged woman. Edward has just reached the stand. ANGEL ( voice over ) Well, I always wanted to be in the Ice Capades. Edward is looking at the flowers.
THE FLORIST: Help you, love ? Edward points to a bunch of flowers. The florist gives it to him.
EDWARD: There you go. Thank you very much. He gives her money, takes the flowers and puts his wallet back into his jacket inside pocket. He walks away. Back to Kit and Angel at the food stand.
KIT: So, you got a lot of stuff you gotta move in ?
ANGEL: No, Carlos burned most of my stuff when I said I was moving VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY Medium full shot. Vivian is putting her handbag on her shoulder, getting ready to move out of the room. She has already reached the front door, when she hears a car honking repeatedly. She stops and slowly turns around. We hear music from La Traviata, a soprano solo. Vivian drops the bag and walks toward the window. The music gets louder and Vivian has a broad smile. She walks to the window.
EDWARD: Vivian ! Close shot on the window. Vivian is laughing, but also ready to High angle view of the roof of the car. Edward is waving both his umbrella and his flowers. Darryl is coming out of the driver's Vivian ! Back to Vivian, waving to him.
EDWARD: Vivian ! Back to Vivian, waving to him.
EDWARD: Had to be the top floor, right ? VIVIAN ( voice over, from the top of the building ) It's the best. High angle shot of the emergency exit, seen from Vivian's balcony. We see Edward through the metal steps leading to Vivian's level.
EDWARD: All right. I'm coming up. Back on the sidewalk level of the emergency exit. Edward grabs the emergency ladder with the hook of his umbrella, and brings it Back on Vivian's balcony. She unties her hair, an lets it wave Medium shot on the emergency exit. Edward is slowly climbing the steps, with the flowers between his teeth. Back to Vivian, looking down and smiling broadly. Back to Edward on a landing of the emergency exit. He crawls on it, with his back pressed against the wall. Close shot on Edward's face, with the flowers between his teeth. He stops moving and looks down. High angle shot on the limousine, and Darryl, smiling encouragingly to Edward. Back to Edward's close shot. He resumes his crawling walk with his back pressed against the wall. Larger shot on the emergency exit landing. Edward reaches the ladder leading to Vivian's landing, whose shadow we see moving above Edward. Low angle shot on Vivian's balcony. She walks on it to meet High angle shot, seen from Vivian's eyes, and showing Edward walking up the last steps, holding the bannister very firmly. Low angle shot on Vivian, standing on the top of the steps, laughing and looking down at Edward. Back to Edward, who lets go of the bannister, and opens his arms to Vivian. Close shot on Vivian walking down the steps. She reaches Edward, who climbs another step to be at her level. Their faces are now close to one another.
EDWARD: So what happened after he climbed up the tower and rescued her ?
VIVIAN: She rescues him right back. Slowly, their mouth meet, and they kiss passionately. Full shot of Vivian's hotel and the emergency exit. On the steps between the top landing and the one below, we see Edward and Vivian kissing passionately. End of La Traviata music. We hear the voice of the Afro-American man we saw at the beginning of the film, crossing Hollywood Boulevard. THE AFRO-AMERICAN ( voice over ) Welcome to Hollywood. What's your dream ? The camera moves away from the hotel and we see the Afro-American man coming down the street
LYRICS: Pretty woman, Walking down the street. Pretty woman, The kind I like to meet. Pretty woman, I don't believe you. You're not the truth. No one could look as good as you. Mercy. Pretty woman won't you pardon me. Pretty woman I couldn't help but see, Pretty woman, That you look lovely as can be. Are you lonely just like me. Oh, pretty woman. End of music. A short silence, and then we hear the song «No Explanation», performed by Peter Cetera.
LYRICS: You really took me by surprise. You're someone I've needed for a lifetime. Your heart was cleverly disguised, And it didn't look that way in my mind. Tell me how could it be. I was the last to know. Darling, I couldn't read what was in your mind, To turn around and love me, With no Explanation. I gave you everything I have. I didn't know that you would take it With sweet consideration. And after all that we've been through, I can't believe it's true Until I hear you say. Ooh ! I know now, now, now. Ah ! No explanation. I gave you everything I have. I didn't know that you would take it. The music slowly fades out End of credits.
