EDWARD: ( a murmur ) Left pocket. And indeed, down below, the magician pulls the coin from the left pocket of the incredulous WOMAN's silk blazer. More laughter and applause. The study is in keeping with the rest of the house. Luxurious. Everything the best. WILLIAM STUCKEY, Edward's contemporary, is a crafty looking lawyer who is the party host. VANCE is an investment banker. His assistant JAKE, is a financial researcher. The other men are INVESTMENT BANKERS. They are in dark suits and power ties. On the table are stacks of documents and folders, the name "KROSS INDUSTRIES" is prominent on many of the folders.
VANCE: Look, we're talking about hard assets and a straight liquidation. We have over a thousand man hours in this deal.
STUCKEY: ( losing patience ) This is a "no brainer". There's no risk for you. No one has ever lost money backing Mr. Harris.
STUCKEY: ( cuts him off ) Come on. You know we're not going to go into ship building. Besides, you're the ones with the troubled track record, not us!
EDWARD: It's unacceptable. Edward turns from the window. He hasn't miss a thing. All eyes are on him.
EDWARD: Draymen Heux has offered me seventy-five in the pool at sixteen and a half. I can secure the other half personally. You have until tomorrow morning to make me a better offer. The bankers speechlessly stare at him.
EDWARD: The meeting is over, gentlemen. He turns away. The bankers look at one another. They rise. Silence as they exit. When the door closes. Stuckey explodes with laughter.
STUCKEY: Hah! Did you see the look on their faces?
VANCE: You don't think we pushed too NO way! They'll come back. They can't afford not to. Edward, that bluff was beautiful.
STUCKEY: NO way! They'll come back. They can't afford not to. Edward, that bluff was beautiful.
EDWARD: Maybe I should have made it The others stare at him, uncertain. Stuckey laughs. The others follow suit.
EDWARD: ( looking at his watch ) Well! It's late. We've been at this long enough. Stuckey rises. Edward ushers Vance and Jake toward the door.
EDWARD: Gentlemen, enjoy the party. The magician's wonderful. Vance and Jake exit.
EDWARD: ( calling after them ) Watch your left pocket. A BUTLER has entered the room.
BUTLER: Phone call, Mr. Harris. It's Miss Cynthia? Is she coming out?
STUCKEY: Cynthia? Is she coming out?
EDWARD: We're about to find out. Go on. Take care of your guests. Stuckey exits the room as Edward crosses to the telephone.
EDWARD: ( into phone ) Where are you, Cynthia? ( beat ) I see. ( pausing, getting angry ) No, I don't expect you to be at my beck-and-call. Are you coming or not?
EDWARD: ( all business ) Prepare the filing papers. Have them ready by the middle of the week. I'll tell you when to submit them. The PEOPLE talking and drinking on the stairway gravitate toward Edward.
A MAN: ( turning on the charm ) Will we see you at the polo matches Wednesday?
EDWARD: ( turning on the charm ) Will we see you at the polo matches Wednesday?
THE MAN: Will we see you at the polo matches Wednesday?
EDWARD: Wouldn't miss it. I want this done fast and easy. No slip-ups. I want to be back in New York by Saturday. Got it? He deftly keeps making his way through the crowd.
ELIZABETH: ( flustered ) Oh. Hi, honey. Millicent, uh, uh, Millicent.
STUCKEY: ( flustered ) Oh. Hi, honey. Millicent, uh, uh, Millicent.
MILLICENT: Lowell, right. My wife, Is Edward leaving? Stuckey looks up to see Edward moving quickly toward the door. Stuckey abruptly leaves the two woman together to follow Edward.
STUCKEY: Lowell, right. My wife, Is Edward leaving? Stuckey looks up to see Edward moving quickly toward the door. Stuckey abruptly leaves the two woman together to follow Edward.
ELIZABETH: ( ignoring her ) Is Edward leaving? Stuckey looks up to see Edward moving quickly toward the door. Stuckey abruptly leaves the two woman together to follow Edward.
STUCKEY: What's up, where you going?
EDWARD: Give me your car keys, will you, I'm going back to my hotel.
STUCKEY: At least stay for a drink. This party's for you.
EDWARD: Apologize to Elizabeth for me. Stuckey gropes uncertainly in his pocket for keys.
STUCKEY: Listen, there're some major local talent inside just dying to meet Really? Some high class gold digger who speaks French better than I do? No, thank you. I just got off the phone with one.
EDWARD: ( as if delighted ) Really? Some high class gold digger who speaks French better than I do? ( turning away ) No, thank you. I just got off the phone with one.
STUCKEY: Cynthia's not coming?
EDWARD: Edward grabs the keys out of Stuckey's hand. He crosses to a black Ferrari and gets in.
STUCKEY: Let your driver take you. We'll move the cars. Edward starts the car.
STUCKEY: Can you drive a stick? The car lurches forward with a squeal of wheels and promptly Edward, give me a break! With a squeal of tires, the Ferrari bucks out of the driveway and. stalls again.
STUCKEY: Edward, give me a break! With a squeal of tires, the Ferrari bucks out of the driveway and. stalls again.
EDWARD: Love this car! Is it new?
STUCKEY: Yes! And you don't even know where you're going! Edward starts it again and heads uncertainly uphill. Stuckey watching, throws up his hands.
STUCKEY: That's the wrong way!
LANDLORD: Vivian turns some "tough" on him.
VIVIAN: Yeah, what?
LANDLORD: Rent. You're late.
VIVIAN: Don't give me that. Kit gave it to you yesterday, cash.
LANDLORD: Kit give me nothin'.
VIVIAN: ( suddenly uncertain ) You bullshittin' me?
LANDLORD: Of rent I do not bullshit. Vivian hurries at a run back down the hallway.
LANDLORD: By the end of the week or you're otta here. By the way, you look very nice INT. VIVIAN'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN Vivian pulls a coffee can off a shelf. She pulls off the top. It's empty. She tosses the can away, starts for the door. She opens it.
PROSTITUTE: Hey, baby, you lookin' for a date? The Driver looks her over. The Black Prostitute gets in the car and it drives away. A GROUP OF MEN, mostly drug dealers, hang out at an all night coffee shop. They WHISTLE and make obscene gestures and SOUNDS as Vivian hurries by. She ignores them and goes next door into a falafel stand. Half a dozen PEOPLE sit at dirty tables inside.
VIVIAN: Chan, you seen Kit tonight?
COOK 1: Hi, hi! No see nothing.
VIVIAN: You do, tell her I'm looking for Looking good, bay-bee.
COOK 2: Looking good, bay-bee.
VIVIAN: Yeah, you too, D'Nai. If Kit comes in here, tell her stay. Both of them nod and smile at Vivian. Vivian exits.
COP: They just pulled her out of a dumpster in the back. Now talk to me.
MAN: I tell you, man, I don't know who she hang with.
COP: She have a pimp?
MAN: Cocaine her pimp, man. She a strawberry. She be out on these streets, day in, day out, tradin' her sorry ass for crack. And now she dead from it. Vivian rushes up to join the outskirts of the crowd as the body of a YOUNG GIRL is pulled out of an open dumpster and carried towards the waiting ambulance. For a moment Vivian thinks it's. no, Vivian turns grimly away. Vivian surveys the dark street. And suddenly sees who's she's looking for. Walks.
VIVIAN: You spent it on drugs, didn't you?
KIT: Hi, Viv. Carlos, you know my roommate, Viv.
CARLOS: Lookin' good, baby.
VIVIAN: ( ignoring him ) Did you blow it all, Kit? Is it all gone?
KIT: Carlos had some great rock.
VIVIAN: I bet. That was our rent! Carlos attempts to put an arm around Vivian's shoulders.
CARLOS: Calm down, Chica. Vivian throws him off.
CARLOS: Ey! What is it you wan', baby? I can fix you up.
VIVIAN: Beat it, scum bucket!
CARLOS: You kiss your mother with that mouth? Your frien' still owes me 200.
VIVIAN: ( to Kit ) Let's go. Skateboard appears suddenly, blocking Vivian and Kit's path.
VIVIAN: Get out of my face or I'll have those cops on your ass in two Carlos glares at her. He looks down toward the lights of the cop cars. One of the POLICEMEN looks towards them, curiously. Vivian waves at the cop.
CARLOS: ( threatening to Vivian ) Don't take no dates tonight, chica, you got one with me. Vivian grabs Kit by the arm and pulls her across the Boulevard.
VIVIAN: We worked for that money. We were gonna put together enough to get out of that dump we live in, get off this street.
KIT: Viv. don't be stupid. We're Vivian looks like she wants to weep. Or scream. She does neither. She slowly nods. Kit's sorry she said that. So I blew our stash. We could make it all back with one good night on the streets.
VIVIAN: I just saw somebody pulled out of a dumpster. I wonder how much she made tonight?
KIT: Don't be mad at me. I'll pay you back. I promise.
VIVIAN: I thought you were giving up that drug shit.
KIT: I will. I'm trying. Meanwhile I got some crack left, you wanna get high?
VIVIAN: No, let's go to work. Okay?
KIT: ( then touches her hand ) I'm sorry I said your dream was EXT. HOLLYWOOD BLVD. - NIGHT Edward's Ferrari turns onto Hollywood Blvd., finally out of the Hollywood Hills.
KIT: No no, honey. You see these stars on the sidewalk. Me and Vivian work from Don Ameche all the way up to Roy Rogers. This is our office. We got seniority. Get off our corner.
RACHEL: I was just taking a rest here. Besides, she's new.
KIT: But I'm old. Go rest up by Monty Hall or Debra Paget where you Rachel walks off.
VIVIAN: ( looks at passing cars ) Looks slow tonight.
KIT: Maybe we should get a pimp. Carlos likes you and
VIVIAN: Forget it. We work for it. We keep it. They keep hustling.
KIT: I can't handle this tonight. I'm going home.
VIVIAN: ( stares at her ) That crack is burning a hole in your pocket. There isn't even milk in the fridge. The rent's due. Now come on
VIVIAN: He's not gonna want us. The Ferrari goes by and stops.
EDWARD: ( calls out to Vivian ) Excuse me.
KIT: ( excited ) Don't take less than a hundred. You look hot tonight. And remember, don't mouth off. They don't like that.
VIVIAN: Okay. Go home. But take it easy on that shit. Kit gives Vivian a quick hug.
KIT: You're the greatest. I'll wait up for you. And then Kit is off, moving quickly away. Vivian turns. She stares at the Ferrari, loathing it and all it represents. And then it's as if Vivian turns a switch. She fluffs her mane of hair, throws her shoulders back, thrusting her breasts out and sashays towards the car, a sexy, friendly smile on her face. In the driver's seat of the Ferrari, Edward is looking furious and distracted. Vivian leans over the passenger window.
VIVIAN: Hey Sugar, you lookin' for a date?
EDWARD: What's that?
VIVIAN: You looking' for some company?
EDWARD: Uh, no. How do I get to Beverly You gonna tell me you're lost?
VIVIAN: ( dropping the come on ) You gonna tell me you're lost?
EDWARD: Great. What do I look like a Edward takes a good look at her.
VIVIAN: Great. What do I look like a Edward takes a good look at her.
EDWARD: ( a beat ) No, you look like a hooker.
VIVIAN: Actually, I'm a movie star out for a walk.
EDWARD: Good. Can you tell me how to get to Beverly Hills?
VIVIAN: Sure. For five bucks.
EDWARD: That's ridiculous.
VIVIAN: The price just went up to ten.
EDWARD: Why don't you just do it out of the kindness of your heart?
VIVIAN: ( sweetly ) Sit. and spin.
EDWARD: ( amused ) Alright. why not? He pulls out his money clip. Vivian suddenly freezes. On the sidewalk up ahead, Carlos and Skateboard. Carlos flashes an evil, menacing grin. He motions to Skateboard, they start forward.
EDWARD: ( holding up a bill ) You have change for a twenty. Vivian pulls open the door of the car and jumps in.
VIVIAN: For twenty, Ill show you personal. Drive. Edward stares at her. She smiles sweetly. Make a "U-ee". Beverly Hills is the other way. The Ferrari pulls away, passing Carlos on the sidewalk.
VIVIAN: Nice car. Yours?
EDWARD: ( as he grinds the Not exactly. He smiles. Vivian smiles back.
VIVIAN: Not exactly. He smiles. Vivian smiles back.
EDWARD: Not exactly. He smiles. Vivian smiles back.
VIVIAN: Mind if I turn on some heat?
EDWARD: If you can figure it out, be my Vivian reaches out, turns on the heat.
EDWARD: Very good. You're obviously You're not from L.A., huh?
VIVIAN: ( laughs ) You're not from L.A., huh?
EDWARD: New York.
VIVIAN: What motel you staying at?
EDWARD: Okay, what hotel?
VIVIAN: Okay, what hotel?
EDWARD: Regent Beverly Wilshire. I bet you know it.
VIVIAN: ( annoyed at his tone ) Yeah, I peed in the fountain there once. Give me a break. Edward glances over, amused. It hits him that she really is an attractive girl.
EDWARD: What's your name?
VIVIAN: What do you want it to be? Vivian, my name's Vivian.
EDWARD: You like being a hooker, Vivian?
VIVIAN: It pays.
EDWARD: So do day jobs.
VIVIAN: ( sarcastic ) Day jobs, yeah. I've tried them. ( a beat ) Turn right.
EDWARD: Must be dangerous. Hooking.
VIVIAN: Tell me about it. L.A. is suffering from a wacko epidemic. And who knows where half the guys I pick up have been. I mean, I use condoms. Always. And I get checked out once a month at the free clinic. Not only am I better in the sack than an amateur, I'm probably safer.
EDWARD: Very good. You ought to have that printed up on your business If you're making fun of me, I don't like it.
VIVIAN: ( a moment ) If you're making fun of me, I don't like it.
EDWARD: Sorry. If I did, I didn't mean Vivian unconsciously bites her fingernails.
EDWARD: Ugly habit, biting your nails.
VIVIAN: You don't know habits, you think this is ugly. But she puts her hands in her lap. She looks out the window. She's safe from Carlos.
VIVIAN: Okay, pull over. Let me out. I've got to get back to work. Edward pulls the Ferrari to the curb and stops. Stay on this street and you'll hit Beverly Hills.
EDWARD: What do you charge for company, Company would cost you. a hundred dollars.
VIVIAN: Company would cost you. a hundred dollars.
EDWARD: For the whole night?
VIVIAN: For an hour.
EDWARD: You're joking.
VIVIAN: I never joke about money.
EDWARD: Neither do I. A hundred bucks an hour though. That's pretty stiff. She reaches across the seat. Her hand goes in his lap.
VIVIAN: No, but it's getting there.
EDWARD: Vivian, how much to put up with me for the entire night?
VIVIAN: You couldn't afford it. Vivian starts to get out of the car.
EDWARD: Try me. A moment. Vivian's sexy smile comes on.
VIVIAN: Three hundred.
EDWARD: What's your name, lover.
VIVIAN: What's your name, lover.
EDWARD: Edward. My name is Edward.
VIVIAN: Edward. you got it! Edward gets out of the car. Vivian looks at him confused.
EDWARD: Get in. This side.
VIVIAN: You know how to drive a stick? Vivian moves around the car.
EDWARD: You know how to drive a stick? Vivian moves around the car.
VIVIAN: Better believe it.
EDWARD: Then let's go. It's worth 300 just so I don't have to drive. They get in the car.
VIVIAN: Here we go Edward.
EDWARD: My raincoat's in the back. Put it on.
VIVIAN: You may feel more comfortable. This is not the kind of place that rents rooms by the hour.
EDWARD: You may feel more comfortable. This is not the kind of place that rents rooms by the hour.
VIVIAN: You mean they don't have hookers.
EDWARD: Every place has hookers, but if this hotel has hookers, they don't look like they're.
VIVIAN: Off the boulevard.
EDWARD: INT. REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT As they walk in, Vivian is tying the trenchcoat.
VIVIAN: Great. Now I took like a hooker in a trenchcoat. She looks up. She stops in her tracks. The lobby is bright and spacious, filled with thick carved wood paneling. Even at this hour there is a great deal of activity. MEN in business suits and WOMEN in furs and jewels are passing by. Vivian's face quickly conceals the sudden awe she feels at the sight of all this luxury. Vivian matter of factly reaches out and takes Edward's arm.
VIVIAN: So let's go. Edward guides them across the lobby. They reach the elevators and go inside.
OPERATOR: Evening, sir.
EDWARD: Good evening. Penthouse.
VIVIAN: Penthouse. My, my. She sees the operator glancing at her.
VIVIAN: The penthouse. And step on it.
EDWARD: ( into the phone ) Room service. ( to Vivian ) What do you drink?
VIVIAN: Diet coke.
EDWARD: ( into the phone ) Send up a bottle of Crystal Can I have some chips?
VIVIAN: Can I have some chips?
EDWARD: ( into the phone ) and a bowl of strawberries. Thank you. Vivian makes her way down the steps to the living room. She stares at the view.
EDWARD: ( to Vivian ) Vivian is impressed but she's not going to admit it.
VIVIAN: You kidding? I come here all the time. As a matter of fact they do rent this room by the hour. Edward smiles. He sits down in a comfortable chair and leans back. Vivian looks at him. Well, now that you have me for the night, what are you going to do with me?
EDWARD: Want to know something? I don't quite know. I hadn't planned Do you plan everything?
VIVIAN: Do you plan everything?
EDWARD: ( a small smile ) Well, the meter's running, it's your money. Speaking of which, cash'll do. In advance.
VIVIAN: Well, the meter's running, it's your money. Speaking of which, cash'll do. In advance.
EDWARD: Fair enough. He rises. Takes out his wallet. Standing over her, he drops THREE crisp, new hundred dollar bills in Vivian's lap. She picks up the bills, stares at them, trying not to be impressed. She puts the money in her jacket. She realizes Edward is standing over her as if waiting. She leans forward, reaches out to unzip his pants. He abruptly turns away.
EDWARD: Let's talk some more first.
VIVIAN: ( brightly ) So! In town on business?
EDWARD: ( taking off his jacket ) Let me guess, you're a. lawyer.
VIVIAN: Let me guess, you're a. lawyer.
EDWARD: ( loosening his tie ) And why do you say that?
VIVIAN: ( a small smile ) I dunno. you have that sharp, useless look. Edward almost smiles. He sits across from her again.
EDWARD: Sounds like you've known a lot of lawyers.
VIVIAN: I've known a lot of everybody. A chime goes off to indicate there's someone at the door.
EDWARD: He starts to sit up. Vivian motions for him to stay put.
VIVIAN: Hey. I might as well make myself Edward sits back down. Vivian waltzes up the steps and opens the front door. A WAITER comes into the room with a silver cart; on it is a bucket of champagne and a covered bowl.
WAITER: Where would you like it?
VIVIAN: Where would we like it?
EDWARD: Where would we like it? Here'll be fine. The Waiter carries it down the steps and sets it in the middle of the living room. He turns and heads back up the stairs and pauses near Vivian, staring. Vivian stares back at him.
VIVIAN: What are you looking at? The Waiter glances away uncomfortably and exits. Vivian closes the door behind him. Vivian marches back down the stairs.
EDWARD: I think he wanted you to tip him.
VIVIAN: Tsk. Excuse me, I didn't think he had change for a hundred. Edward crosses to the silver stand. Vivian watches with interest as he twirls the champagne bottle in the ice bucket. You have a wife? Girlfriend?
EDWARD: I have both. Edward lifts the bottle out. He deftly pops the cork on the bottle without losing a drop of champagne.
VIVIAN: Where are they? Shopping They should be. They're both good at it. Edward pours the champagne into a single long stemmed glass and hands one to Vivian. My ex-wife lives in London in what used to be my home. My girlfriend is in New York moving out of my apartment even as we speak. Cheers. He drinks, nods approvingly.
EDWARD: They should be. They're both good at it. Edward pours the champagne into a single long stemmed glass and hands one to Vivian. My ex-wife lives in London in what used to be my home. My girlfriend is in New York moving out of my apartment even as we speak. Cheers. He drinks, nods approvingly.
EDWARD: It's a very good year.
VIVIAN: Oooh, thank god. Edward laughs softly. She sips it. To her surprise, really likes it. Edward lifts a lid on a silver bowl to reveal a dozen enormous strawberries.
EDWARD: Try a strawberry.
VIVIAN: Because they bring out the flavor of the champagne.
EDWARD: Because they bring out the flavor of the champagne.
VIVIAN: Jesus, you act like you're seducing some Valley girl you picked up in a dance club.
EDWARD: Vivian. the meter's running. A moment. She slowly eats a strawberry. The juice of it stains her lips. Her eyes are like smoke as she takes a sensuous sip of champagne, licks away the stain of the strawberry. His eyes haven't left her.
EDWARD: ( softly ) You really are a very beautiful ( husky-voiced ) Just a romantic, that's you.
VIVIAN: ( husky-voiced ) Just a romantic, that's you.
EDWARD: Her mouth is so wet and inviting. he leans closer.
VIVIAN: Me too. He's about to kiss her. Not on the lips. He freezes. She pulls his head down to her breast.
EDWARD: ( touching her breasts ) What do you like?
VIVIAN: If I want you to turn me on I'll pay you three hundred. Just lay back and let me drive. Smiling, Vivian reaches behind her, touching him. He tries not to groan. She's moving faster now. Edward suddenly pulls her violently to him, he rolls her over.
EDWARD: ( into the phone ) Sorry. Go ahead.
STUCKEY: Kross knows we're after his company. He wants to talk with you. I don't think you should.
EDWARD: I want to.
STUCKEY: Edward, if the three of us sit down together we might as well announce our plans in the Wall Street Journal.
EDWARD: I'll see him alone. Everyone knows you're my muscle. We'll make it social. Tell Kross I'll meet him for dinner. Tonight if you can arrange it.
STUCKEY: You shouldn't go alone. He might claim that you tried to black mail Bill, we're businessmen, not the damn mafia. I'll see you in the office. By the way, about your Oh, god, what?
EDWARD: Bill, we're businessmen, not the damn mafia. I'll see you in the office. By the way, about your Oh, god, what?
STUCKEY: Oh, god, what?
EDWARD: ( smiling ) I'll bring it back. Edward hangs up. He pours a glass of orange juice and takes a sip, thinking. Something makes him turn. Vivian, wearing a monogrammed hotel terry robe, is standing uncertainly in the bedroom doorway.
EDWARD: Good morning.
VIVIAN: You didn't wake me. I'll be out of here in a minute.
EDWARD: No hurry. Would you like some She's hungry and the breakfast looks great.
VIVIAN: Only if you do. Edward sits. Waits. Vivian sits across from him. Edward serves them breakfast.
EDWARD: Did you sleep well?
VIVIAN: Yeah. Too good. I forgot where I was.
EDWARD: Occupational hazard? She looks at him sharply, sees that he means no offense, Where'd you go?
VIVIAN: Where'd you go?
EDWARD: I took the couch. I had some work to do. About last night.
VIVIAN: Oooh, Baby, you were the best. I was beside myself.
EDWARD: Mmm, I could tell.
VIVIAN: I just hope it was worth three hundred bucks.
EDWARD: I'd say you give a good dollar They share a small smile. They eat.
EDWARD: Do you ever. enjoy it?
VIVIAN: I like guys if that's what you're asking. Not that I trust'm.
EDWARD: No? Why's that?
VIVIAN: "Occupational hazard". A moment. Edward chuckles. Vivian grins. what do you do anyway?
EDWARD: I buy companies.
VIVIAN: No shit. They expensive? He almost smiles. She almost smiles back.
EDWARD: The one I'm buying this week will cost around 150 million.
VIVIAN: . dollars? He nods. This time Vivian is impressed. You are major league, baby. Your mother must be very proud. Edward is oddly pleased at her reaction.
VIVIAN: So what a ya do with the companies once you buy'm?
EDWARD: ( fumbling with the tie ) I sell them.
VIVIAN: What? Why? She undoes his knot and starts over. At ease, let me do that. Part of the all night services.
EDWARD: By breaking up a company's assets
VIVIAN: What are assets?
EDWARD: C'mon, I might buy a company some Assets are anything of value a company owns. Sometimes the pieces are worth more than the whole. By selling them off, I make a profit.
VIVIAN: C'mon, I might buy a company some Assets are anything of value a company owns. Sometimes the pieces are worth more than the whole. By selling them off, I make a profit.
EDWARD: Assets are anything of value a company owns. Sometimes the pieces are worth more than the whole. By selling them off, I make a profit.
VIVIAN: Sorta like stealing cars and selling'm for parts, huh?
EDWARD: Not. quite.
VIVIAN: There, see? Now the emblem is right in the middle of the knot.
EDWARD: Where'd you learn to do this?
VIVIAN: ( sarcastic ) I fucked the debate team in high school. Tsk. I had a grampa. He liked ties on Sundays. You mind if I take a swim in your bathtub before I hit it?
EDWARD: Don't drown. Vivian turns and heads toward the bathroom. He follows her into the bathroom.
VIVIAN: You could hold a pep rally in The phone on the marbled bathroom wall suddenly rings. Edward reaches for it.
EDWARD: ( into the phone ) INT. STUCKEY'S HOUSE - INTERCUT Stuckey is walking around his desk.
STUCKEY: Edward, it's me. Kross is all set for tonight.
STUCKEY: Listen, I gotta say this again, I don't like you going alone. She turns it on. The water hits her in the face.
EDWARD: ( stifling a chuckle ) I'm a big boy. There are lotions and shampoos and bubblebaths on the edge of the tub. Vivian regards them like a kid in a candy shop.
STUCKEY: Let me at least get you a date. Keep it social. Edward watches as Vivian smells some bubble bath. She smiles. Her eyes ask Edward if it's okay to.? He nods.
STUCKEY: Edward, did you hear me?
EDWARD: I'm here.
STUCKEY: I know a lot of nice girls. Vivian pours the bubblebath into the swirling water. There's something about the look on her face. the way she bites her lower lip. curious, sensual.
EDWARD: I have one. Edward hangs up the phone as Vivian curiously turns on the television. The sound blares. She fumbles to turn it down. Edward reaches over and turns it off.
EDWARD: All right. How much for the week?
VIVIAN: I'm in town until Saturday. She look at him like he isn't speaking English.
EDWARD: I'm in town until Saturday. She look at him like he isn't speaking English.
EDWARD: It takes Vivian a moment to respond.
VIVIAN: It'd cost you.
EDWARD: Of course. How much?
VIVIAN: Five full nights. days too? Edward nods. Vivian hesitates. it's got to be enough to really change things. She shoots for the moon again.
VIVIAN: Four thousand.
EDWARD: Vivian, may I point out five more nights at three hundred a night is only 1,500.
VIVIAN: But you want days too.
EDWARD: All right, two thousand.
VIVIAN: Holy shit. And then, quickly getting herself back together, she flips on the sexy smile. Sugar, you got it. I will treat you like a prince. Anything, anyway you want.
EDWARD: Holy shit. And then, quickly getting herself back together, she flips on the sexy smile. Sugar, you got it. I will treat you like a prince. Anything, anyway you want.
VIVIAN: Holy shit. And then, quickly getting herself back together, she flips on the sexy smile. Sugar, you got it. I will treat you like a prince. Anything, anyway you want.
EDWARD: I'm not just talking about sex.
VIVIAN: Look butthead, I'll treat you so nice you'll never want to let me go, okay?
EDWARD: Three thousand for five days. And Vivian, I will let you go.
EDWARD: I'll be out most of the day. He reaches into his pocket for a money clip. He peels off bills. He hands the cash to Vivian.
EDWARD: I want you to go out and buy some decent clothes. Vivian's eyes go wide at the amount of money.
EDWARD: Nothing too flashy, not too sexy. Conservative. Understand?
VIVIAN: Yeah, you want me to dress like your high class girlfriend. You're wasting your money though. All I'm gonna do is hang around the hotel. As a matter of fact, I may never get out of that Edward opens the door, he starts to exit. He turns back.
EDWARD: Think again. I'm taking you out to an important dinner with me The door closes in her face.
EDWARD: INT. PENTHOUSE BATHROOM - DAY Vivian is stretched out in the hot bubble bath. The TV is on. She clicks the remote control in her hand.
VIVIAN: Three thousand. She lies back into the soapy water and disappears. She suddenly pops back up, laughing.
VIVIAN: Three thousand! A thought occurs to her. She reaches for the cordless phone. She dials. She waits. She is about to disconnect when the phone is answered.
VIVIAN: Kit! Where've you been?
VIVIAN: Kit, listen, the guy last night, the one in the Ferrari, I'm at this hotel, the Regent Beverly Wilshire, it's this absolutely unbelievable place and he's hired me for a whole week and Kit, listen, he's paying me three thousand bucks! We can get out of the apartment. We can get out of this town. We can do anything! Kit? Hey, you there?
VIVIAN: He. he just does.
VIVIAN: Three hundred for last night and he gave me extra to buy some clothes. Now listen, I'm gonna leave an envelope for you at the front desk. Give me two hundred to the scum bucket and the other hundred to that asshole landlord for part of the rent. Spend it on drugs and I'll pull your hair out.
KIT: I'm getting dressed now. I'll be over. Bye.
VIVIAN: Hey Kit, where do I go for the clothes? Good stuff on him.
VIVIAN: KIT ( O.S. ) Baby! Rodeo Drive.
SALESWOMAN: ( cooly ) May I help you?
VIVIAN: I'm just looking, thanks. Vivian tiptoes through the shop as if it was filled with delicate glass objects. She cautiously examines a dress. The Saleswoman quickly comes around the counter and approaches her.
SALESWOMAN: Are you looking for something in Yes. Something. conservative.
VIVIAN: Yes. Something. conservative.
SALESWOMAN: Vivian eyes the Saleswoman, puzzled at her tone. She examines a dress.
VIVIAN: You have beautiful things. How much is this?
SALESWOMAN: I don't think it would fit you.
VIVIAN: ( beginning to get the I didn't ask if it would fit. I asked how much it was.
SALESWOMAN: It's very expensive. Vivian's body tenses as she stares at the Saleswoman.
VIVIAN: What is with you?
SALESWOMAN: ( unblinking ) Excuse me?
VIVIAN: I'm going to spend money.
SALESWOMAN: I don't think we have anything for you here. You're obviously in the wrong place. Vivian is speechless. She turns and stomps toward the door. She stops and spins around staring at the Saleswoman. Vivian flips her off. She throws the door open and storms outside. The Saleswoman calmly strolls back to her counter and returns to her place.
MR. THOMAS: May I help you Miss? Vivian stops, practically shaking with terror.
VIVIAN: I'm just going to my room.
MR. THOMAS: You're a guest here?
VIVIAN: I'm I'm with a friend.
MR. THOMAS: And who is that?
VIVIAN: I. Edward. Vivian's face is filled with confusion. She doesn't know his name. The elevator doors open behind them. She spots the He knows me. Mr. Thomas turns and eyes the Operator curiously. The Operator looks back at them innocently. With a smooth gesture Mr. Thomas waves the Operator over.
VIVIAN: ( blurting it out ) He knows me. Mr. Thomas turns and eyes the Operator curiously. The Operator looks back at them innocently. With a smooth gesture Mr. Thomas waves the Operator over.
MR. THOMAS: Do you know this young lady? The Operator nods.
OPERATOR: She's with Mr. Harris.
MR. THOMAS: ( surprised ) Mr. Harris?
OPERATOR: She apparently joined him last Mr. Thomas waves the Operator away.
MR. THOMAS: Why don't you come with me. We'll chat for just a moment. He takes Vivian gently but firmly by the arm and leads her off.
MR. THOMAS: What's your name?
VIVIAN: MR. THOMAS Miss Vivian. things that go on in other hotels don't happen at the Regent Beverly Wilshire. Vivian says nothing. MR. THOMAS ( cont'd ) Mr. Harris, however, is a very special customer. And we like to think of our special customers as friends. As a customer, we would expect Mr. Harris to sign in any additional guests. But as a friend, we're willing to overlook it, I'm assuming you're a. relative? Vivian finds herself nodding. MR. THOMAS ( cont'd ) I thought so. You must be his.?
MR. THOMAS: Miss Vivian. things that go on in other hotels don't happen at the Regent Beverly Wilshire. Vivian says nothing. Mr. Harris, however, is a very special customer. And we like to think of our special customers as friends. As a customer, we would expect Mr. Harris to sign in any additional guests. But as a friend, we're willing to overlook it, I'm assuming you're a. relative? Vivian finds herself nodding. I thought so. You must be his.?
VIVIAN: MR. THOMAS Of course. Naturally when Mr. Harris leaves, I won't see you in this hotel again. Vivian bites her lower lip, nods. MR. THOMAS ( cont'd ) Good. We understand one another. ( as a gentle afterthought: ) I would also encourage you to dress in a more appropriate Vivian's face screws up as she tries hard not to cry.
MR. THOMAS: Of course. Naturally when Mr. Harris leaves, I won't see you in this hotel again. Vivian bites her lower lip, nods. Good. We understand one another. I would also encourage you to dress in a more appropriate Vivian's face screws up as she tries hard not to cry.
VIVIAN: That's what I was trying to do. She can't help it, the tears come. Vivian pulls out the money Edward gave her. She drops it on the desk. It's a moist- looking wad now. I was trying to get some other clothes. but. they wouldn't. they made me feel like shit. She can't go on. Mr. Thomas politely glances at the money. He unfolds it, smoothes it and hands it back to her. He sighs. He picks up the phone. He dials.
MR. THOMAS: ( into the phone ) Women's clothing. ( beat ) Bridget, please. Vivian is staring at him. Bridget, hello, this is Barnard Thomas over at the Regent Beverly Wilshire. Well, thank you, that's flattering. I'd like to ask a favor of you. I'm going to send someone over. Her name is Vivian. She's a guest of ours. A very special guest. He glances at Vivian. With those simple words, he'd made her feel better. She's from out of town and she needs a little help in dressing. Perhaps you could help her out. Thank you very much. She'll be right over. He sets the phone down and smiles patronizingly at Vivian. There you are. If you have any other problems, come ask for me personally. I'm Mr. Thomas.
VIVIAN: She smiles mischievously.
VANCE: Okay. this is the jewel in Kross's crown. We can strip out all the heavy equipment. Some of the cranes are very valuable overseas. The Japanese are salivating for them.
STUCKEY: Prime industrial property straddling the Port of Long Beach and Los Angeles. It gives me a Edward points toward one of the edges of the shipyard.
EDWARD: What's that long building over Storage, I think.
JAKE: Storage, I think.
EDWARD: Not with those smokestacks it's Let me check. Vance pulls out a notebook.
VANCE: Let me check. Vance pulls out a notebook.
JAKE: The real estate possibilities are endless. Most of the yard we'll just level. I talked to a couple of developers, under the table, of course, and they said
EDWARD: You what?
JAKE: I talked to some developers about the land.
STUCKEY: What kind of an idiot are you? You don't talk about this to They're close friends, they'd never breathe a word
JAKE: They're close friends, they'd never breathe a word
STUCKEY: ( to Vance ) Where did you dig this moron up?
VANCE: He's right, Jake, that was an incredibly stupid thing to do. It won't happen again, Edward. I'll pull him off the project Don't bother.
EDWARD: Don't bother.
STUCKEY: We don't have the time to bring someone new up to speed. You've already impressed everyone you need to, haven't you?
EDWARD: We don't have the time to bring someone new up to speed. You've already impressed everyone you need to, haven't you?
JAKE: It won't happen again, Mr. Harris. Vance has found what he was looking for in his notebook.
VANCE: This is interesting. That building is storage now, but it used to be a smelting plant. They closed it down after World War
EDWARD: I want our lawyers to check into the toxic waste licences on them right away. I want to know if the permits are still valid and what kind of limits are on them.
STUCKEY: Jesus, yes. It's a long shot but if the permits are still in effect, they're worth a fortune. He turns away. The other follow Edward back toward the What time's diner tonight?
EDWARD: What time's diner tonight?
STUCKEY: Eight o'clock. Kross is bringing his son. Very bright kid, watch yourself with him. Who's this girl you're taking?
EDWARD: No one you know.
BRIDGET: You must be Vivian. Vivian nods. Let's look at you. She steps back, regards Vivian with a professional eye. Where are you from, dear?
VIVIAN: ( pause ) No wonder. For starts, you should know that hot pants are horrid, even when you do have the legs to carry them off. What are your plans while you're in town?
BRIDGET: No wonder. For starts, you should know that hot pants are horrid, even when you do have the legs to carry them off. What are your plans while you're in town?
VIVIAN: Well. I might be going out to You'll want a cocktail dress then. Turn. You have a beautiful figure. A little too out in the open but simply lovely. Size six? Do you need shoes?
BRIDGET: You'll want a cocktail dress then. Turn. You have a beautiful figure. A little too out in the open but simply lovely. Size six? Do you need shoes?
VIVIAN: I dunno. Do thigh high, leather boots go with a cocktail dress?
BRIDGET: ( calling out ) Philip! We'll need shoes! Bridget leads Vivian towards the racks of clothes. She pulls out a dress.
BRIDGET: Your uncle will like this.
VIVIAN: He's not really my uncle.
BRIDGET: They never are, dear.
VIVIAN: I got a dress.
MR. THOMAS: ( dryly ) I rather hoped you'd be wearing I didn't want to get it messed. I got shoes too. Wanna see?
VIVIAN: I didn't want to get it messed. I got shoes too. Wanna see?
MR. THOMAS: That's all right. I'm sure they're quite lovely.
VIVIAN: They were real nice to me there. They treated me, y'know. nice. Thanks, Barney. Mr. Thomas tries not to wince at the familiarity.
MR. THOMAS: You're very welcome, Miss Vivian. She smiles at him. He watches as Vivian turns and walks toward the elevator. The provocative way her hips move just naturally attracts the attention of a MALE PASSERBY. And the white gloved ELEVATOR MAN literally leaps to press the elevator button for Vivian who rewards him with a happy smile. Mr. Thomas sighs.
VIVIAN: The phone keeps ringing it has more than one line. Vivian frantically punches buttons.
EDWARD: Never answer the phone. Ever.
VIVIAN: Tsk, believe me, this will be the last time.
EDWARD: Did you buy some clothes?
VIVIAN: I got a dress, yeah.
EDWARD: Just one? Christ. I hope it's It's very tasteful. I think you'll especially like the zipper in the crotch. I'm joking.
VIVIAN: It's very tasteful. I think you'll especially like the zipper in the crotch. I'm joking.
EDWARD: Let's hope so. You'll get some more clothes tomorrow. I'll be pushed for time so meet me in the hotel lobby at seven forty-five sharp. Got it?
VIVIAN: No, I don't "got it". Even the farmboys back in Georgia come to the door when they're taking you on a date.
EDWARD: This isn't a date.
VIVIAN: Go by yourself then. Where you taking me anyway?
EDWARD: The Rex.
VIVIAN: Any good?
EDWARD: I think you'll approve.
VIVIAN: . all right. I'll meet you in the lobby. But only cause you're paying me to.
EDWARD: Thank you very much. Vivian slowly sets the phone down. The phone rings again. Vivian, very carefully, punches the flashing button and picks it up.
VIVIAN: I thought I told you not to answer the phone.
EDWARD: I thought I told you not to answer the phone.
VIVIAN: Edward hangs up. He smiles to himself. Vivian bites her fingernails, looking nervous. The doorbell RINGS. Vivian looks up, startled. She rises, moves to answer It's the Spanish MAID. She nods politely at Vivian.
MAID: Housekeeping. I come to turn down the bed. 5:00, I turn down the bed.
VIVIAN: The Maid points to her hotel badge, trying to explain.
MAID: Housekeeping. I come to turn down the bed.
VIVIAN: The Maid enters.
VIVIAN: Is there a trick to it?
VIVIAN: Is that all? You just fold back the bedspread?
MAID: I also place las chocolates on the pillow.
VIVIAN: Oooh, I love those.
MAID: I leave extras, miss.
VIVIAN: Thanks! Consuelo, are all rich people so lazy they can't do this on their own? Consuelo shrugs.
VIVIAN: He looks up. He sighs. Vivian still hasn't changed.
MR. THOMAS: What is it, Miss Vivian?
VIVIAN: Edward is taking me to some fancy place for dinner. The Rex. Ever been there?
MR. THOMAS: It's a bit beyond my. range, shall we say.
VIVIAN: Yeah, mine too. Is it like, y'know, normal?
MR. THOMAS: I think you'll find it normal Will I like it?
VIVIAN: Will I like it?
MR. THOMAS: You'll like it fine.
VIVIAN: Okay. Thanks, Barney. You're the best. She turns away.
MR. THOMAS: Just mind which fork you use. Vivian turns abruptly back, a horrified look on her face.
VIVIAN: INT. HOTEL DINING ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON CLOSE ANGLE - PLACESETTING An elegant formal placesetting complete with a myriad of different size forks, spoons, stacked china plates and crystal ANGLE ON MR. THOMAS AND VIVIAN sit across from one another at a fully set table.
MR. THOMAS: In fifteen minutes I can teach you everything you need to know to dine with the Queen. First, as you pick up the knife you shift your fork to the left hand.
VIVIAN: But I always eat like this.
MR. THOMAS: Either you're European or badly brought up.
VIVIAN: Hmmm. I vonder vich.
MR. THOMAS: Actually, some of the richest people I know have the worst manners. Of course, Mr. Harris, being of old money, knows his way around a table. All right now, pay attention please. Salad fork.
VIVIAN: What if they serve soup?
MR. THOMAS: They will serve salad.
VIVIAN: But what if they serve soup?
MR. THOMAS: Then you use your soup spoon.
VIVIAN: ( smiles ) I like steak.
MR. THOMAS: ( picking up the Then you would use your
VIVIAN: Steak spoon! Mr. Thomas swallows his exasperation. WE PULL BACK from their table to reveal the cavernous, empty banquets room, each table is set and ready for the dinner Miss Vivian
MR. THOMAS: Miss Vivian
VIVIAN: Maybe I'll just order a burger, Barney, that way I can eat with my hands.
MR. THOMAS: Miss Vivian. there's a salon here in the hotel. Instead of worrying unnecessarily about table manners, why don't you just have your hair done instead?
VIVIAN: INT. SALON - LATE AFTERNOON Vivian sits in a salon chair. The last customer, THANE, a young man of about twenty with his long hair pulled back in a pony tail, tilts her head one way and then another, eyeing her
VIVIAN: I have a friend who has a friend who does Cher's wigs.
THANE: I hate him already. All set?
VIVIAN: Yeah. what a ya say we chop it all off and bleach the tips.
THANE: Darling? Trust me.
MR. THOMAS: Good evening, Mr. Harris. Edward looks at him blankly.
MR. THOMAS: Barnard Thomas, manager of the Of course, yes. If you'll excuse me just a moment
EDWARD: Of course, yes. If you'll excuse me just a moment
MR. THOMAS: I have a message for you from your "niece", sir.
EDWARD: My what?
MR. THOMAS: The young lady staying in your Edward's eyes narrow. He hangs up the phone.
EDWARD: I think we both know she's not my niece. Mr. Thomas looks uncomfortable. Does this hotel have any problem with that?
MR. THOMAS: Mr. Harris, a guest of yours, is a guest of ours and shall be treated accordingly. The young lady asked me to tell you that she is waiting for you in the Thank you. He starts towards the lounge.
EDWARD: Thank you. He starts towards the lounge.
MR. THOMAS: Very intriguing young woman, Miss His tone stops Edward in his tracks. Have a good evening, sir. And off he goes, leaving Edward to wonder what the hell transpired during the afternoon.
VIVIAN: You're late. Such a beautiful woman deserves an apology and so, without I'm sorry.
EDWARD: I'm sorry.
VIVIAN: You're forgiven. She waits expectantly. He holds out an arm. She takes it.
KROSS: So young man, I understand you are trying to take over my A moment. The abruptness of the question takes Edward back for a moment. But then he almost smiles.
EDWARD: Please don't patronize me, Mr. Kross. Our ages mean nothing Kross and David look at each other.
DAVID: Mr. Harris, we know you've purchased at least twenty percent of our stock. We also know you plan to file a formal bid for a majority share.
EDWARD: Twenty-five percent.
KROSS: Mr. Harris, I built Kross Enterprises myself. I know every man who ever worked there by his first name. I know their wives. and their children. If your intention is to take over my company and turn it into a glorified real estate deal, think Edward, thankfully, now reaches for his salad fork and begins to eat. Relieved, Vivian picks up hers. They all eat for a What do you suggest, Mr. Kross? WAITERS approach, some to clear the salad plates, some to put down the next course. Vivian, thinking she's got to finish, quickly stuffs her mouth with the rest of her salad. She is reluctant to let the Waiter take her fork.
EDWARD: What do you suggest, Mr. Kross? WAITERS approach, some to clear the salad plates, some to put down the next course. Vivian, thinking she's got to finish, quickly stuffs her mouth with the rest of her salad. She is reluctant to let the Waiter take her fork.
KROSS: What would it take to buy our stock back? Name your price.
EDWARD: To get me in a mood to sell double what I paid. But your company doesn't have enough capital right now to buy anything.
DAVID: We're on the verge of closing a large navy contract. Double is ridiculous but we can assure you a healthy profit on your shares. We would give you a promissory note.
EDWARD: You're not getting any navy Vivian can see that both father and son are stunned by this There's no way you could know But I do know. I also know your lines of credit are over-extended. If I don't buy your company, someone else will. Ah, the escargot. Escargot are put down in front of everyone. Vivian stares at them dubiously. She picks up what she assumes is the next "right" fork. She picks up a snail. The two do not fit. Flustered, she doesn't know what to do. No one else seems to be eating. And now a Waiter comes and places escargot forks at each place. Vivian picks it up with a sigh of relief.
DAVID: There's no way you could know But I do know. I also know your lines of credit are over-extended. If I don't buy your company, someone else will. Ah, the escargot. Escargot are put down in front of everyone. Vivian stares at them dubiously. She picks up what she assumes is the next "right" fork. She picks up a snail. The two do not fit. Flustered, she doesn't know what to do. No one else seems to be eating. And now a Waiter comes and places escargot forks at each place. Vivian picks it up with a sigh of relief.
EDWARD: But I do know. I also know your lines of credit are over-extended. If I don't buy your company, someone else will. Ah, the escargot. Escargot are put down in front of everyone. Vivian stares at them dubiously. She picks up what she assumes is the next "right" fork. She picks up a snail. The two do not fit. Flustered, she doesn't know what to do. No one else seems to be eating. And now a Waiter comes and places escargot forks at each place. Vivian picks it up with a sigh of relief.
VIVIAN: ( softly, to the Waiter ) Scume me, what are these things?
WAITER: ( bending to whisper ) Escargot, mademoiselle.
EDWARD: ( leaning close to Vivian stares at them, horrified. She, like James and David Kross, no longer seem interested in eating. Edward eats with Mr. Kross, I'm not here to sell you my stock. On the contrary, I'm here to buy yours.
EDWARD: Mr. Kross, I'm not here to sell you my stock. On the contrary, I'm here to buy yours.
KROSS: ( angry ) You've got a lot of nerve.
EDWARD: No. What I have is a lot of I know all about you, Mr. Harris. When you buy companies, they have a way of disappearing. Even the pension funds are stripped clean. The last three companies you took over were cut up in so many pieces, widows were left without their retirement checks.
KROSS: I know all about you, Mr. Harris. When you buy companies, they have a way of disappearing. Even the pension funds are stripped clean. The last three companies you took over were cut up in so many pieces, widows were left without their retirement checks.
EDWARD: ( calmly ) What I did with those companies was perfectly legal.
KROSS: I don't question the legality of what you do. It's your morality that makes me sick. I will not allow my company to be raped by a man like you.
EDWARD: ( angry now ) It is not your company. It's a public company. And I am going to acquire it. Either I buy from the other stock holders, or I buy from you. Vivian struggles with her escargot. I would suggest that you and your board cooperate with me, rather than fight a battle you don't have the ammunition to win. Vivian suddenly ZINGS her snail across the table. Everyone looks to her.
VIVIAN: Slippery little suckers. Kross rises.
KROSS: If you'll excuse me young lady, Mr. Harris. Deal with this, David, you know where we stand. I need to go someplace and puke. He rises. He exits.
DAVID: ( to Edward and Vivian ) Men like my father built this country. He was no saint. He screwed people. But for every guy he stepped on, he gave a hundred a good job. Edward is silent.
VIVIAN: He seems like a nice man. David looks at Vivian as if seeing her for the first time.
EDWARD: We can reach an understanding on I don't think so. You should know we're going to fight you with every resource we have.
DAVID: I don't think so. You should know we're going to fight you with every resource we have.
EDWARD: Do what you have to do. I don't take it personally.
DAVID: I do. I take it all very Very nice meeting you, Vivian. David Kross gets up and leaves. Vivian and Edward sit in And that's the way the game is Some game. Screwin' some poor slob out of his retirement. Edward says nothing. But Vivian can see she's hit a nerve.
EDWARD: ( a beat ) And that's the way the game is Some game. Screwin' some poor slob out of his retirement. Edward says nothing. But Vivian can see she's hit a nerve.
VIVIAN: Some game. Screwin' some poor slob out of his retirement. Edward says nothing. But Vivian can see she's hit a nerve.
VIVIAN: Snails for dinner. No wonder everybody is in such a bad mood. A Waiter appears at the table.
WAITER: Are we ready for the next course, No. Bring a check, please.
EDWARD: No. Bring a check, please.
EDWARD: Thank you. He drinks. Silence.
VIVIAN: You're upset, huh?
EDWARD: Upset. No. I never get upset about business.
VIVIAN: You liked the guy, though.
EDWARD: Whether I liked him or not is irrelevant. It's business. There's no emotion involved in business. if you want to We're the exactly the same! Kit keeps telling me don't get emotional when you turn tricks that's why no kissing it's too personal. The key is like you're saying, stay numb, don't get involved when I'm with a guy, I'm a robot, I just do it. Except with you. At your price I give my all. Edward laughs. Let's not talks about this heavy stuff. Come on, relax. Vivian comes up behind him. She begins to rub his shoulders.
VIVIAN: ( excited ) We're the exactly the same! Kit keeps telling me don't get emotional when you turn tricks that's why no kissing it's too personal. The key is like you're saying, stay numb, don't get involved when I'm with a guy, I'm a robot, I just do it. ( realizing what she's Except with you. At your price I give my all. Edward laughs. Let's not talks about this heavy stuff. Come on, relax. Vivian comes up behind him. She begins to rub his shoulders.
EDWARD: That. is very good. A moment. Edward is silent. Turns him, unknots his tie, unbuttons his collar.
VIVIAN: Know what we're gonna do in a little while then? We're gonna call Domino's and have'm deliver a bigass pizza. We're gonna eat it in bed. We're gonna veg' out and watch television.
EDWARD: Yeah, it's this box, it has pictures, sound. You don't have to use your brain at all.
VIVIAN: Yeah, it's this box, it has pictures, sound. You don't have to use your brain at all.
EDWARD: I have work to do.
VIVIAN: Uh-uh. No work. Smiling, she softly kisses his throat. See. what you haven't figured out yet. She kissed his neck. She fumbles with his belt. Is that while you're the boss everyplace else. I'm the one in charge here. She kisses his chest. You. just think you are. She starts to kneel down. He stops her. They stare at one another for a moment. He releases her. She smiles. She starts to undress him.
EDWARD: I still don't understand why you only bought one dress.
VIVIAN: I wasn't as much fun as I thought it was going to be.
EDWARD: Why not?
VIVIAN: Well, you know those cold bitches that work in those stores and try to intimidate you? It works.
EDWARD: Was someone rude to you?
VIVIAN: I had a little problem in one store. I wasn't dressed right. I don't know what to say. I don't belong there. Maybe I'll just go back to Bridget. She was cool.
EDWARD: Vivian, you belong wherever you are. I don't care how you were dressed, they were the ones who were wrong, not you. Edward sits on the bed. People aren't going to respect you unless you respect yourself. The next time someone is rude to you, you stare at them right here. He softly touches her, right between the eyes. It's an old trick I use, especially with bankers. Works every time. Will you try it?
VIVIAN: ( confidently ) ( a beat ) Come with me? Edward looks at his watch. Vivian covers it with her hand.
EDWARD: ( a beat ) Come with me? Edward looks at his watch. Vivian covers it with her hand.
VIVIAN: ( a beat ) Come with me? Edward looks at his watch. Vivian covers it with her hand.
VIVIAN: INT. BOUTIQUE - DAY A beautiful, chic women's shop. The haughty SALESGIRL approaches Vivian near a rack of dresses. Edward hovers in the The Salesgirl looks Vivian up and down. A Pause. Vivian gives her "the stare" and straightens up. We see the Salesgirl's reaction change.
VIVIAN: ( nervous ) Hello. Can you help me? The Salesgirl looks Vivian up and down. A Pause. Vivian gives her "the stare" and straightens up. We see the Salesgirl's reaction change.
VIVIAN: ( confidently ) I'm looking for a dress, nothing too flashy, not too sexy, conservative. In a size six.
SALESGIRL: ( uncomfortable under Do. do you have a charge account with us? Vivian smiles and draws out Edward's American Express card. The Salesgirl nods and quickly moves to a rack of dresses to find Vivian's size.
VIVIAN: ( sighing ) I look like fucking Nancy Reagan.
VANCE: Kross came out of his corner swinging. He started buying up all available stock as soon as the market opened.
EDWARD: ( almost to himself ) He's a tough old son of a Edward is watching Vivian. She pulls the hem of her skirt up to mid thigh. She looks hopefully over to Edward. Edward shakes his head.
VANCE: It's up to ten and a quarter.
EDWARD: Offer nine and a half. Bring them back down to earth.
STUCKEY: Goddamit! Where is he getting the money to fight?
EDWARD: Someone's loaning it to him. Get on it right away.
STUCKEY: Our contract guys are working on the Kross pension funds. There's another forty million there. We can bleed'm dry. There is a sudden hesitation in Edward's eyes. He watches as Vivian tries on a hat. She preens for him. He smiles.
EDWARD: ( to Vance Put the pension funds on hold until I say otherwise.
STUCKEY: ( surprised ) We're letting them slide?
EDWARD: I want the treatment plant licenses to be top priority right But, Edward.
STUCKEY: But, Edward.
EDWARD: Do it. Edward hangs up and takes a long look at Vivian. She moves to him.
EDWARD: ( looks at his watch ) You're on your own now, Vivian. I've got to get to work. Be sensible and you can keep everything. Spend too much and it all goes back. Vivian hugs him again.
VIVIAN: Not me! 2 ) A SALESWOMAN holds a long, purple evening gown.
VIVIAN: ( imitating Bridget ) 3 ) Vivian is admiring a pair of beautiful suede dress pumps. Her attention is drawn to the SALESMEN'S exotic hand-painted Where'd you get your tie? 4 ) Vivian stands in front of an enormous tie rack with the Salesman, a dozen wild, swirling designed ties are hanging over his outstretched arm. Vivian picks out the brightest one and EXT. RODEO DRIVE - DAY Vivian's arms are filled with clothing boxes and bags. She feels like she owns the block. A well-dressed MAN passes by, smiling politely. Vivian's nose lifts as she happily ignores Suddenly Vivian stops. She's about to pass the shop she was thrown out of. Vivian takes a breath and enters the shop.
VIVIAN: Where'd you get your tie? 4 ) Vivian stands in front of an enormous tie rack with the Salesman, a dozen wild, swirling designed ties are hanging over his outstretched arm. Vivian picks out the brightest one and EXT. RODEO DRIVE - DAY Vivian's arms are filled with clothing boxes and bags. She feels like she owns the block. A well-dressed MAN passes by, smiling politely. Vivian's nose lifts as she happily ignores Suddenly Vivian stops. She's about to pass the shop she was thrown out of. Vivian takes a breath and enters the shop.
SALESWOMAN: ( to the customer ) Isn't this lovely? I think it would look wonderful on you. Vivian musters her courage. She takes a deep breath and starts ( to her customer ) Would you like to try it on?
SALESWOMAN: ( to her customer ) Would you like to try it on?
VIVIAN: 'Scume me. Both the saleswoman and her customer look up. The saleswoman smiles pleasantly.
SALESWOMAN: Do you remember me?
VIVIAN: Do you remember me?
SALESWOMAN: No, I'm sorry, I don't.
VIVIAN: I was in here yesterday. Vivian slowly raises her middle finger. The recognition starts to dawn in the saleswoman's eyes. Vivian's courage begins to Yeah. That's right. It's me. I want you to know something. You made me feel terrible. I wasn't dressed right and you said I didn't belong here. Well, I do. You're the one that was wrong, not me. And I want to tell you something else. I'm never gonna shop here again as long as I live. And with that, Vivian turns and walks out. The saleswoman is stunned. A beat. The customer thrusts the dress into the saleswoman's arm as if offended by Vivian's speech and leaves the store also.
VIVIAN: Yeah. That's right. It's me. I want you to know something. You made me feel terrible. I wasn't dressed right and you said I didn't belong here. Well, I do. You're the one that was wrong, not me. And I want to tell you something else. I'm never gonna shop here again as long as I live. And with that, Vivian turns and walks out. The saleswoman is stunned. A beat. The customer thrusts the dress into the saleswoman's arm as if offended by Vivian's speech and leaves the store also.
VIVIAN: Vivian does a giddy spin and falls onto the couch.
STUCKEY: ( gloating ) You were right. Kross mortgaged everything he has down to his grandson's college tuition to secure loans from a bank. Not just any bank. One we do business Edward just sips his coffee. It goes without saying that your business means a great deal more to them than our friend Kross's. ( a beat ) All you have to do is make a call. Edward is silent. Stuckey is again surprised.
STUCKEY: Excuse me for saying this but what is wrong with you this week? First, you go soft on the pension funds. Now, you're giving him the chance to get away? As of two minutes ago, you are committed to the tune of over fifty million Come on, Bill, don't talk to me about how much money's involved. It's my money.
EDWARD: Come on, Bill, don't talk to me about how much money's involved. It's my money.
STUCKEY: And some of it's mine. Edward, his jugular's exposed. Edward hesitates. Then:
EDWARD: Get the bank on the phone for me.
VIVIAN: I thought maybe you'd like dinner.
EDWARD: Thank you. I would. Wait till you see what I have on underneath.
VIVIAN: Wait till you see what I have on underneath.
EDWARD: She opens the dressing gown. What she has on underneath is absolutely nothing. Edward crosses to her. Taking her in his arms, he lifts her up and kisses her breasts.
VIVIAN: What about dinner?
EDWARD: Dinner can wait.
VIVIAN: You always been rich?
EDWARD: Seems like it. I guess it's easy to get used to, huh?
VIVIAN: Seems like it. I guess it's easy to get used to, huh?
EDWARD: Easier than learning how to be My father's family was wealthy. When I was young there were cars and houses, private schools, nannies. But then my father divorced my mother to marry another woman. And he took his money with him. Keep talkin'. I like hearin'.
VIVIAN: Keep talkin'. I like hearin'.
EDWARD: Not much to tell. I went to public school. Went to university on scholarship. Went to work for an investment firm. In eight years I owned it. My father was chairman of the board of the third company I ever went after. I swallowed that company and shit out the pieces. One of the pieces was him. Vivian softly traces small patterns on Edward's shoulders with a finger.
VIVIAN: You still mad at'm?
EDWARD: He died a long time ago. She gently rests her head on his back.
WAITER: You have a call. Mr. Harris.
VIVIAN: ( taking the phone ) Hi, baby. ( a moment ) I'll be ready. Bye. She hangs up. She looks at the Waiter, confused.
VIVIAN: What do you wear to polo?
VIVIAN: You're really pushing it, bringing me here.
EDWARD: I think it's exciting.
VIVIAN: What id we run into someone I I really doubt anyone here frequents Hollywood Boulevard.
EDWARD: I really doubt anyone here frequents Hollywood Boulevard.
VIVIAN: You did. A VOICE calls out.
STUCKEY: ( looking at Vivian ) Well, well, well. Vivian dislikes this guy on sight. Dislikes the frosty looking woman at his side.
EDWARD: Bill, I'd like you to meet Vivian.
STUCKEY: ( holding out a hand; Bill Stuckey, Vivian. My wife, Elizabeth Stuckey stretches her thin lips in a cold smile.
VIVIAN: Elizabeth Stuckey stretches her thin lips in a cold smile.
STUCKEY: Lots of fun people here. Let me get you two some champagne. He moves quickly away.
ELIZABETH STUCKEY: Excuse me. She moves to greet someone else. Vivian and Edward survey the milling CROWD.
VIVIAN: ( sarcastic ) Real genuine guy.
EDWARD: He's good at what he does.
VIVIAN: You could freeze ice on his wife's ass. She anything like your ex?
EDWARD: ( a small smile ) Shall we mingle?
WOMAN: I simply love your dress, Vivian.
VIVIAN: This old thing?
WOMAN: Of course, a figure like yours can wear anything. You must work out constantly.
VIVIAN: I lead a very physical life.
OLDER MAN: Are you into running, Vivian?
VIVIAN: I'm into walking. I walk a lot.
ANOTHER MAN: You look awfully familiar, Vivian. Haven't we run into one another at the spa in La Costa?
VIVIAN: Well, I do often spa there.
ELIZABETH STUCKEY: Edward, she's marvelous. Warm and witty and down to earth.
EDWARD: ( with pleasure ) She is, isn't she.
ELIZABETH STUCKEY: So unlike your usuals. Where on earth did you find her? Edward smiles enigmatically. Taking an hors d'oeuvres off a passing WAITERS's tray, he starts forward.
A WOMAN: We're good together. He has to admit it. I've been just what he wants me to be. I say the right things, I know the right people, I give wonderful parties. No question, no arguments, no embarrassments. It works for both of us. That makes Vivian think. And then she smiles as she sees Edward approaching. Vivian moves to him.
VIVIAN: Edward, these women here, I don't think any of'm like the guys they're with. They're just into it for the money.
EDWARD: I'm sure that's true for some of I thought I was the pro. These women make me feel like an Ready to stomp sod?
VIVIAN: I thought I was the pro. These women make me feel like an Ready to stomp sod?
EDWARD: ( a beat ) Ready to stomp sod?
DAVID KROSS: Hi. I never thought stomping in grass could be so much fun.
VIVIAN: Hi. I never thought stomping in grass could be so much fun.
DAVID: ( laughs ) I like your hat.
VIVIAN: Huh? Oh. yeah. S'okay? Uhm. how're. business things Let's not talk about it, it's too depressing. Come on, I'll show you Thunder.
DAVID: Let's not talk about it, it's too depressing. Come on, I'll show you Thunder.
VIVIAN: Please, we hardly know each other.
DAVID: Thunder's a horse. Come on.
DAVID: Hey, big guy, you getting tired, yet? I am. This is Vivian. You two been together long? You and Edward?
VIVIAN: Hope to be? To Vivian's surprise, the question causes a pang inside.
DAVID: Hope to be? To Vivian's surprise, the question causes a pang inside.
VIVIAN: It's. it's not like that.
DAVID: I see. Well. Maybe that means you'd have lunch with me sometime Vivian is suddenly silent. She looks away. I'm sorry, am I being too forward?
VIVIAN: You don't know anything about me.
DAVID: I'd like to find out. You don't know anything about me either. That's why people have lunch. But something holds Vivian back, a feeling.
STUCKEY: Fill me in on this. How'd you and Vivian meet?
EDWARD: We just did.
STUCKEY: ( grinning ) Come on, you can tell me. I sure would like to know where a guy runs into a girl as attractive as this.
EDWARD: The night I left your house, I was lost. I was looking for And you just happened to run into her. Great. What's she do? She Doing what?
STUCKEY: And you just happened to run into her. Great. What's she do? She Doing what?
EDWARD: Doing what?
STUCKEY: Doing what?
EDWARD: Vivian's in sales.
STUCKEY: Sales, really? That's great. What does she sell? Edward's eyes narrow.
EDWARD: Why do you want to know?
STUCKEY: Hear me out. I've known you a long time. I see a difference in you this week. Like that tie. I'm suddenly wondering if this girl's not the difference. Especially when I see her talking with David Kross.
EDWARD: She met him at dinner last night. I like this tie.
STUCKEY: So now they're best friends? Edward, this girl appears out of nowhere and now I see her talking to a guy whose company we're trying to buy. It's too You're being ridiculous.
EDWARD: You're being ridiculous.
STUCKEY: Industrial espionage is not ridiculous. Edward, how do you know she hasn't attached herself to you so she can bring Kross back Christ, Bill, she's not a spy, she's a hooker. I picked her up off Hollywood Boulevard.
EDWARD: Christ, Bill, she's not a spy, she's a hooker. I picked her up off Hollywood Boulevard.
STUCKEY: I swear to God, you are the only millionaire I ever heard of who'd go looking for a goddam bargain Edward sees Vivian coming.
EDWARD: Let's drop it, shall we? Edward turns. He smiles gently as Vivian quietly approaches and hands him his glass of champagne. A group of BUSINESSMEN are standing a short distance away. One of them calls out:
MAN: Edward! May we have your opinion on something?
EDWARD: ( to Vivian and Stuckey ) Excuse me a moment. He moves to join the group of men. Stuckey gives Vivian a broad smile.
STUCKEY: Having a good time, Vivian?
VIVIAN: Yeah. Thanks.
STUCKEY: All this must be quite a change from Hollywood Boulevard. Vivian looks as if she's been struck.
VIVIAN: It's okay. Edward told me. Your secret's safe with me. Stuckey runs his hand up her arm. What do you charge, Vivian? Maybe you and I could get together after Edward leaves.
STUCKEY: It's okay. Edward told me. Your secret's safe with me. Stuckey runs his hand up her arm. What do you charge, Vivian? Maybe you and I could get together after Edward leaves.
VIVIAN: ( forcing a bitter smile ) Yeah. Sure. Why not. Call me at the Regent Beverly Wilshire.
STUCKEY: I just might do that. He moves away. Vivian turns. Edward looks up from his conversation, sees her looking at him. He smiles, raises his glass in a small toast. A moment. Vivian toasts him back.
EDWARD: You're awfully quiet. You haven't said a word since the party. As Edward touches her shoulder, Vivian suddenly spins and explodes with anger.
VIVIAN: You asshole! I can't believe what a !
EDWARD: Vivian, what the Tears well in Vivian's eyes as she yells at him.
VIVIAN: Clean the slut up, take her out, huh?! What are you trying to prove!? I'm not a piece of meat for you to offer to your friends!
EDWARD: I don't know what you're talking I've been with stinking old men who've made me want to puke but I've never had anyone make me feel as dirty as you did tonight.
VIVIAN: I've been with stinking old men who've made me want to puke but I've never had anyone make me feel as dirty as you did tonight.
EDWARD: Would you please calm down. Tell me what happened.
VIVIAN: Stuckey! He wants an "appointment" with me after you leave. You my pimp now or did he think that up on his own? Edward looks guiltily away.
EDWARD: What was I supposed to do? I told the truth. Why should the truth upset you? It's not as if you're from a convent.
VIVIAN: I want my fucking money. I'm getting out of here. I don't want anything more to do with you.
EDWARD: Can we talk about this? Can you just try to calm down?
VIVIAN: Your goddamned friend, he thinks the only reason I'm with you is for the money. A tear falls from Vivian's eyes.
VIVIAN: ( defiantly ) Well, it's true. Just pay me what you owe me and I'm gone.
EDWARD: Pay me! Before I pick up this chair and smash your face in.
VIVIAN: Pay me! Before I pick up this chair and smash your face in.
EDWARD: Fine. I'm only here a couple of more days and I'm not going to spend them fighting with you.
VIVIAN: Fuck off.
EDWARD: I'll call you a cab. If you want the clothes, pack them up. Vivian stands quietly for a moment. And then she turns and walks into the bedroom.
EDWARD: Vivian. I'm sorry. I wasn't prepared for questions about us. It was an idiotic and insensitive thing I did. I should have known that it would hurt you.
VIVIAN: I'm not hurt. It doesn't hurt you when somebody pisses on you, it just pissed you off.
EDWARD: I really am sorry. Vivian lets the clothes fall from her arms. Sobbing, she stands You hurt me. Edward goes to her and wraps his arms around her shoulders. She touches his hand. He sits on the bed. He pulls her to him and wraps his arms around her, holds her tight.
VIVIAN: You hurt me. Edward goes to her and wraps his arms around her shoulders. She touches his hand. He sits on the bed. He pulls her to him and wraps his arms around her, holds her tight.
EDWARD: I'll make it up to you.
STUCKEY: This is no time to disappear. We're in too far.
EDWARD: Bill? Stop panicking. Kross isn't going anywhere and I don't need to spend the rest of the day watching his stock go down. I'll be in the office tomorrow.
STUCKEY: Promise me you'll read those contracts by then.
EDWARD: Goodbye, Bill. Stuckey stops. He calls after Edward.
STUCKEY: Shit. By tomorrow, Edward! Edward hurries on.
MR. THOMAS: Good afternoon, Mr. Harris.
EDWARD: Edward's attention is taken by the glittering jewelry display in the hotel jewelry store window. He detours from the elevators and moves to the window for a closer look. He thinks a moment and enters the jewelry store.
VIVIAN: C'mon, Kit. No answer. She hears someone at the door. She hangs up. Edward enters. He is carrying a small case. He stops at the sight of Vivian.
VIVIAN: Do I look okay?
EDWARD: ( a small smile ) Hmm. let's see. no, there's something missing. He holds up the small case.
VIVIAN: What's that?
EDWARD: I don't want you to get too excited. these are on loan. Vivian's jaw drops. Edward is holding a diamond and ruby necklace in his hands, holds it as if it might melt if he breathed too hard. Edward behind Vivian, fastens the necklace around her neck.
EDWARD: This is made for a princess. I think she'd approve of you wearing it tonight. There. Come look. He leads her to a mirror. She stares at her reflection.
VIVIAN: Edward, I can't.
EDWARD: Shush. Of course you can.
VIVIAN: What if I lose it?
EDWARD: You won't.
VIVIAN: What if someone tries to steal I'll guard them and you with my EDT. BURBANK AIRPORT - DAY A limo pulls onto the tarmac at Burbank Airport. A PILOT in a leather jacket and sunglasses hurries forward to open the limo door. Edward now wearing evening clothes and Vivian climbs out of the limo.
EDWARD: I'll guard them and you with my EDT. BURBANK AIRPORT - DAY A limo pulls onto the tarmac at Burbank Airport. A PILOT in a leather jacket and sunglasses hurries forward to open the limo door. Edward now wearing evening clothes and Vivian climbs out of the limo.
PILOT: Your plane is ready to go, Mr. Very good.
EDWARD: Very good.
VIVIAN: Taking her arm, Edward leads her across the tarmac.
EDWARD: You don't want to go all the way to San Francisco in a limousine, do you? I don't.
VIVIAN: Where are you taking me!?
EDWARD: To meet some friends. Rudolpho, a poet. Benoit, a landlord. Mimi, a flower maker.
VIVIAN: The opera. Up ahead is a waiting private jet, its engines already HUMMING. She is speechless. Edward grins, loving the look on her face.
EDWARD: The opera. Up ahead is a waiting private jet, its engines already HUMMING. She is speechless. Edward grins, loving the look on her face.
VIVIAN: I've never been on a plane I'm glad you like it. Now be quiet, I've really got to read Vivian fluffs her hair up. She makes a happy, excited growling sound Rrrrr! A wicked gleam comes to her eye. She walks over to Edward and stands in front of him. He looks up. She parts the thigh high slit in her gown to expose silken quarters. She begins to unfasten the garters one at a time.
EDWARD: I'm glad you like it. Now be quiet, I've really got to read Vivian fluffs her hair up. She makes a happy, excited growling sound Rrrrr! A wicked gleam comes to her eye. She walks over to Edward and stands in front of him. He looks up. She parts the thigh high slit in her gown to expose silken quarters. She begins to unfasten the garters one at a time.
EDWARD: Vivian, what do you think you're Edward watches silk stockings slide down Vivian's lovely legs.
VIVIAN: Being quiet. She reaches out and gently caresses Edward's face. Edward sets down his papers.
VIVIAN: Sorry. You're not paying me to ask you question like that.
EDWARD: Vivian. I'm paying you to be you. Be you. Have you? Ever been in love with You mean, besides Elvis? I'm a human being. Sure. Once. First time I ever ran away from home, I got as far as Atlanta. I met this boy. He'd been with his parents on their way to Chicago. They stopped at a gas station. He went to the john. When he came back they'd split. We sorta started looking out for each other. Aw, he was sweet. And boy, was he good looking, y'know, dark hair and eyes. The chicken hawks were on him all the time. He hated that. Sometimes we'd find a safe place to crash nights and we'd curl up together and we'd talk about all these crazy things. The two of us getting married someday. Having kids. Stupid stuff.
VIVIAN: You mean, besides Elvis? I'm a human being. Sure. Once. First time I ever ran away from home, I got as far as Atlanta. I met this boy. He'd been with his parents on their way to Chicago. They stopped at a gas station. He went to the john. When he came back they'd split. We sorta started looking out for each other. Aw, he was sweet. And boy, was he good looking, y'know, dark hair and eyes. The chicken hawks were on him all the time. He hated that. Sometimes we'd find a safe place to crash nights and we'd curl up together and we'd talk about all these crazy things. The two of us getting married someday. Having kids. Stupid stuff.
EDWARD: What happened to him? A moment. Vivian shrugs.
VIVIAN: My father found me. Dragged me home. I don't know why, he never seemed to like me much when I was 'Cept when he was drunk, then he liked me a whole lot. I made it back to Atlanta a year later. Andy was gone. Silence. Vivian stares out the window.
VIVIAN: Aw, but things sure look fine when you're sitting way up high. Edward moves close to Vivian and putting an arm around her shoulders, stares with her out at the view. Vivian rests her head against him.
EDWARD: Some people say that opera is an acquired taste, but I don't believe it. You can always tell when someone goes to the opera for the first time. They either love it or hate it. Those who love it will always love it; those who hate it might come to appreciate it, but they'll never truly love it. Vivian is wide eyed as they walk past a beautifully lit fountain with several graceful statues in its center. Everywhere she looks she sees elegantly dressed WOMEN and prosperous looking MEN. It makes her nervous. Without realizing it, she raises a protective hand up to her necklace. She looks as if she suspects someone is going to step up and steal it.
EDWARD: Viv? I really doubt if anyone here is going to try and grab it. Vivian reluctantly lowers her hands.
EDWARD: They all think you look very beautiful, Vivian. Vivian gives him a grateful look. Relaxing, she lowers her hand from the necklace. With a flourish, he offers his arm. She takes it. They start forward.
VIVIAN: If it's in Italian, how will I know what they're saying?
EDWARD: I'll whisper some of the main parts of the story to you. But you'll be surprised how much you understand. The music conveys the story more powerfully than any words.
VIVIAN: But don't they have it in Vivian, don't be afraid of what you don't know. That's the fun of it. The lights dim.
EDWARD: Vivian, don't be afraid of what you don't know. That's the fun of it. The lights dim.
VIVIAN: ( resigned ) Okay. Even if I hate it, I'm glad you brought me. The orchestra begins to play. Vivian's eyes focus intensely on the stage, as if a new world is about to be revealed to her.
EDWARD: What am I? I am a poet. Not a man of wealth but one rich in dreams. You have come to replace my vanished dreams. I dwell now only in your eyes. The MUSIC ebbs and swells. The sets and costumes change. The story continues. Edward again leans close to Vivian.
EDWARD: And now she asks Rudolpho if he still thinks her beautiful Vivian raises a hand and gently covers Edward's mouth. Her eyes are fixed on the stage. She doesn't need his help. The emotions building inside Vivian swell as the music is reaching its tragic climax. Her lips tremble. Her eyes fill with tears. Edward glances at her. He studies her a long moment, watching the emotions play unashamedly across her face. Strangely moved, he takes Vivian's hand. As the opera ends, they are both swept away by it.
OLDER WOMAN: Did you enjoy the opera, dear?
VIVIAN: ( tearfully ) It was so beautiful I just about pissed my pants. Edward smiles at the now shocked looking Older Woman and he and the still misty Vivian exit.
EDWARD: If you'd gone on about how much you liked it, I'm not sure I'd have believed you.
VIVIAN: I more than liked it.
EDWARD: I know. I'm glad.
VIVIAN: Did you?
EDWARD: Yes. I've never enjoyed it more. Thank you. Vivian looks at him a moment. And then, leaning slowly forward she kisses him gently on the mouth. He looks at her surprise. He puts his arms around her and kisses her back. It is the first time they've kissed and they make it very special.
VIVIAN: Love you. She clutches Edward's hand tightly to her breast. She closes her eyes, ready to sleep now.
EDWARD: INT. STUCKEY'S HOME - LIBRARY- MORNING - INTERCUT Stuckey, not even dressed yet, paces around his desk.
STUCKEY: Did I wake you?
EDWARD: I'm up.
STUCKEY: I had to call. I jus got off the phone with James Kross. Get this. He wants to see you. He wouldn't say. Edward. I think we got him. His nuts are on the block and we got him. You there?
EDWARD: He wouldn't say. Edward. I think we got him. His nuts are on the block and we got him. You there?
STUCKEY: He wouldn't say. Edward. I think we got him. His nuts are on the block and we got him. You there?
EDWARD: Give me twenty minutes.
STUCKEY: We'll be there. Listen, if he's really caving in, we'll go from there down to the office. I want him to commit his stock to us this Edward hangs up. His mind seems on other things. He rises.
VIVIAN: ( opening her eyes; Edward smiles at her softly. And then:
EDWARD: Better get dressed. We're having INT. PENTHOUSE BEDROOM - DAY Vivian is wearing her yellow dress. She stares at herself in the bedroom mirror. Her hair. her make-up. she realizes how different she is now, realizes that she likes it. Edward comes out of the bathroom. He crosses to the closet for a tie.
VIVIAN: Here. Let me. She comes over, starts to tie his tie for him. He is very aware of the closeness of her. She smiles at him. He smiles; puts his hand on her stopping her for a moment. Looking up, she sees that he is serious now; no more jokes. He releases her hand.
EDWARD: ( quietly ) One more night and you're finally rid of me.
VIVIAN: Yeah, you've been pretty tough to take.
EDWARD: I have to go to New York Vivian says nothing. But I'll be back in Los Angeles. Soon. I'd like to see you again. I thought we could work out something. An arrangement. Vivian is silent. I'll get you an apartment, buy you a car Vivian sighs, letting something go inside. Finished with his tie, she turns away. What is it?
VIVIAN: ( not unkindly ) What else? You gonna leave some cash by the bed when you pass through town?
EDWARD: It wouldn't be like that. I want to get you off the street. You'll have a different kind of life. What's wrong with that?
VIVIAN: I'm sorry. That's very sweet, Edward, and I know you mean it. She is silent.
EDWARD: Vivian, I've thought about this a lot. This is the best solution.
VIVIAN: ( shakes her head "no," When I was a little girl, my mother locked me in the attic when I was bad, which was pretty often. I'd stare out the window up there and make believe I was a princess trapped in the tower by the wicked queen. Then suddenly a knight on a white horse with his bright colors flying would ride up. Rescue me from the tower, and then we'd ride off. but never, ever in all the times I had that dream did the knight say, "Come on baby, I'll put you up in a great condo." She finished his tie.
EDWARD: Vivian, life's not a fairy tale.
VIVIAN: ( softly; to herself ) I know. ( a beat ) Hey, don't mind me. I'm being ( more ) I'll think about it, okay? It's a real good offer for a whore.
EDWARD: I've never treated you like a You just did. The doorbell suddenly rings in the living room.
VIVIAN: ( not mean ) You just did. The doorbell suddenly rings in the living room.
KROSS: Mr. Harris.
EDWARD: How are you, Mr. Kross.
KROSS: Not bad for a man who hasn't slept in four nights. I'll get used to it. An angry, reluctant looking David Kross is behind his father. Stuckey brings up the rear. Edward and David give one another perfunctory nod. Stuckey smugly winks at Edward. Edward closes the door and leads them all down the stairs. Vivian is very troubled at Kross's appearance. He gently nods at Vivian.
KROSS: Young lady.
VIVIAN: ( to David ) Hello, Vivian.
DAVID: Hello, Vivian.
STUCKEY: Let's not waste time here, shall we? Mr. Kross, you said this morning, you wished to speak with Mr. Harris. Mr. Harris is now Kross has to fight down his humiliation at Stuckey's tone. He turns to Edward.
KROSS: Yes. I'm here to tell you that I've reconsidered my position on your acquisition offer.
EDWARD: Expected. offer.
KROSS: Of course, yes. After the expected filing period is over, I'm going to recommend to the board that we accept your bid.
EDWARD: ( a moment ) You're making the right decision, Stuckey glances triumphantly at Edward. He is surprised to see that there doesn't seem to be any victory in Edward's face. Edward is silent. Kross interprets his silence as second I'll see you on one condition. I'm not so concerned for me but the people who have worked for Vivian is disturbed watching this tired looking man.
KROSS: I'll see you on one condition. I'm not so concerned for me but the people who have worked for Vivian is disturbed watching this tired looking man.
STUCKEY: ( quickly ) They'll be taken care of. Won't they, Edward? Kross ignores Stuckey. He looks to Edward. Edward slowly I'll sign anything you want then.
KROSS: I'll sign anything you want then.
STUCKEY: Kross nods tiredly. His voice is very soft.
KROSS: Vivian abruptly turns and disappears into the bedroom, obviously upset. The men all watch her go. Edward hesitates. He turns to Kross:
EDWARD: Excuse me, please? He heads to the bedroom.
VIVIAN: Hello. Is Kit DeLuca there? When she comes in will you have her call Vivian Wells at 560-30000. Yes. Okay. She hangs up as Edward comes in.
VIVIAN: What did you do to him?
EDWARD: What do you mean?
VIVIAN: Last time I saw him he was this strong guy. Now he's beaten. And you liked him.
EDWARD: Vivian, I want you to listen to me. The man realized that it would be better for his future and his son's future, if he It's not your concern. It's. business, that's all.
VIVIAN: It's not your concern. It's. business, that's all.
EDWARD: It's not your concern. It's. business, that's all.
VIVIAN: Yes. The man made a business It's all just business to you. Him. Me. Your life. Everything's business.
EDWARD: Yes. The man made a business It's all just business to you. Him. Me. Your life. Everything's business.
VIVIAN: It's all just business to you. Him. Me. Your life. Everything's business.
EDWARD: It's what I do for a living. It's how I make money. I'll be back in a few hours. We'll talk about this later.
EDWARD: I'll be back in a few hours. We'll talk about this later.
EDWARD: We'll continue this down at the He heads for the door.
VIVIAN: INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY - INTERCUT Mr. Thomas is standing behind the front desk, a rather strained expression on his face.
MR. THOMAS: Barnard Thomas here. Miss Vivian, I wonder if you might come down to the front desk. There's someone here to see you.
VIVIAN: MR. THOMAS I'd send them up, but sadly, I don't trust the young lady to find you on her own. A hand reaches out and wrenches the phone away from Mr. Thomas. Kit, heavy make-up, skimpy outfit, chewing gum, cigarette and all, keeps her voice just below a bellow.
MR. THOMAS: I'd send them up, but sadly, I don't trust the young lady to find you on her own. A hand reaches out and wrenches the phone away from Mr. Thomas. Kit, heavy make-up, skimpy outfit, chewing gum, cigarette and all, keeps her voice just below a bellow.
KIT: Viv? Where are you, babe? The sphincter-police won't let me through.
VIVIAN: Yes, I'm glad you're clean but I've been calling and calling.
KIT: Was that you?
VIVIAN: Who did you think?
KIT: Carlos. I still owe him two hundred bucks.
VIVIAN: Kit, I left that money for you days ago.
KIT: Yeah. I just got it. An OLDER COUPLE walk past the table. They stare at Kit.
KIT: Fifty bucks, grampa. For seventy-five, the wife can watch. Horrified, the elderly couple hurry away.
VIVIAN: Everybody keeps starin' at me.
KIT: Everybody keeps starin' at me.
VIVIAN: Yeah. I know what you mean.
KIT: What do you know? You look good. All dressed up. You clean up real nice. You sure don't fit in down on the Boulevard, lookin' like you do. Not that you ever did anyway.
VIVIAN: You think I fit here where they just about chew your food for you?
KIT: Where do you fit? Vivian is silent, then.
VIVIAN: ( suddenly ) I kissed him, Kit. On the mouth.
KIT: Honey, you're not supposed to do that.
VIVIAN: I know. I stopped pretending and started liking it with him for real.
KIT: Oh, my god, you mean it was good?
VIVIAN: ( miserably ) It was great.
KIT: He wants to set me up in a place, give me some money.
VIVIAN: He wants to set me up in a place, give me some money.
KIT: I pray for that.
VIVIAN: ( nods ) All I'm doing is feeling lousy about it. I don't know what to do. What do I do, Kit?
KIT: Go for the bucks.
VIVIAN: I don't care about bucks. I might love this guy.
KIT: Wow, are you in deep shit. You know he'll break your heart. Vivian is silent again. I blame myself here. First time I laid eyes on ya', I knew you were too complicated to be a Vivian nods. Her face is filled with confusion.
JAKE: Congratulations, sir.
EDWARD: Mr. Kross is just getting off the phone with his stock broker. It's finished. You've won. Edward says nothing.
JAKE: Mr. Kross is just getting off the phone with his stock broker. It's finished. You've won. Edward says nothing.
JAKE: Who are you going after next, sir?
EDWARD: Who indeed. He turns as Stuckey, James and David Kross, and Vance enter the room. They surround a conference table. Kross sits, the papers laid out in front of him. Stuckey hands Kross a pen. A SECRETARY lays out finger food. They wait for her to leave before they speak.
STUCKEY: If we can get these letters of intent out of the way now. Mr. Harris and I would like to ask you some questions about your Dad, excuse me, but that's inappropriate. You're under no obligation to answer any questions at all.
DAVID: Dad, excuse me, but that's inappropriate. You're under no obligation to answer any questions at all.
KROSS: Could we at least wait till after the filing period? Stuckey glances to Edward for help. Edward is silent; indeed it's as if something is twisting inside of him. Stuckey plunges Mr. Harris is preparing a bid based on our speculation of the corporation's net worth. The price he ultimately pays for your father's stock will be based on that bid. The more we know, the higher our bid can be.
STUCKEY: Mr. Harris is preparing a bid based on our speculation of the corporation's net worth. The price he ultimately pays for your father's stock will be based on that bid. The more we know, the higher our bid can be.
KROSS: It's in my best interest to cooperate, David.
DAVID: If he throws himself on your sword, you promise to take care of him and his family, huh? David stares at him.
STUCKEY: That's unfair!
DAVID: You bed it is. You're everything he said you Do what you have to do, Dad. Just don't expect me to watch it. He exits. A moment. Kross looks at Edward with a resigned He's young. He hasn't learned how to lose gracefully yet. I'll sign your papers. And I'll answer your questions. Whatever you He sighs. He picks up the pen. He's about to sign.
KROSS: He's young. He hasn't learned how to lose gracefully yet. I'll sign your papers. And I'll answer your questions. Whatever you He sighs. He picks up the pen. He's about to sign.
EDWARD: Stop. For just a moment. Mr. Kross, I'd like to ask you a few questions before you sign. You realize that you're a target. If you weren't mine, you'd be someone elses, correct?
KROSS: If you had a. reprieve, what would do?
EDWARD: If you had a. reprieve, what would do?
STUCKEY: ( quickly ) I don't think there's any sense Let him answer.
EDWARD: Let him answer.
KROSS: I. I would take advantage of Kross looks uncertain. He gropes for an answer.
EDWARD: Kross looks uncertain. He gropes for an answer.
KROSS: I. I don't know. There. there wasn't time.
EDWARD: I suppose you'd find out soon enough that you have assets you presently don't seem aware of, wouldn't you? The waste processing licenses at that abandoned shipyard of yours, you'd certainly find out about that. Surprise suddenly flares in Stuckey's eyes.
STUCKEY: Oh, my god. Edward, no!
EDWARD: I suppose you'd use them as collateral on new loans, wouldn't Have you lost your mind?
STUCKEY: Have you lost your mind?
KROSS: ( to Stuckey ) ( to Edward ) Would I get the loans?
EDWARD: This time I imagine you would, With all this in mind, Mr. Kross, I can't logically make a formal bid on your company, can I?
KROSS: ( a small smile ) You'd be initiating a financial battle you'd ultimately lose, Mr. You're very right. I think the best thing we could all do is go Have a good day, gentlemen. He exits from the room. Stuckey follows.
EDWARD: You're very right. I think the best thing we could all do is go Have a good day, gentlemen. He exits from the room. Stuckey follows.
STUCKEY: Have a good day, gentlemen. He exits from the room. Stuckey follows.
EDWARD: Have a good day, gentlemen. He exits from the room. Stuckey follows.
STUCKEY: ( calls ) Edward, what happened? What kind of move was that? Edward silently goes into the elevators. The doors close.
STUCKEY: ( yells ) Dammit Edward, speak to me. Stuckey heads back to the conference room.
EDWARD: No. take the car back to the hotel. I need to walk. He sets off across Century Park East.
STUCKEY: Well, well. Hello again. I'm looking for Edward. Vivian just stares at him.
VIVIAN: Edward's not back. I thought he was with you. Stuckey walks past her and down the steps into the living room.
STUCKEY: No, I'll just have to wait then, won't I? There is a bar set up. Stuckey sets his briefcase down. He crosses to the bar. Mind if I have a drink?
VIVIAN: He pours liquor in a glass. He fires it down. It seems to calm him a bit.
STUCKEY: Do you want to know what he did? Do you want to know what the crazy son of a bitch did? He handed the whole thing back to Kross! On a silver platter. For no reason! What was he thinking, I mean, what was going through his goddam head? Why? What was all that benevolent crap? What are we going to become, a philanthropic foundation? I'll probably be the director of several worthwhile I think it's great. Stuckey glares at Vivian.
VIVIAN: I think it's great. Stuckey glares at Vivian.
STUCKEY: I bet. A lousy whore and you're the gum in a hundred million dollar deal.
VIVIAN: ( mocking ) Aw, come on, Bill. It's just He looks at her a moment.
STUCKEY: But what do I know, maybe you're worth it. Come on, show me. Let's see your act. He grabs her wrist.
VIVIAN: Get out!
STUCKEY: Don't worry. I'll pay for it. What a you charge? Huh? Twenty, thirty, fifty bucks, maybe? Are you a fifty dollar whore? He tries to kiss her and pulls her down on the couch on top of him.
VIVIAN: Are you crazy? She bites his hand. Stuckey slaps her. Vivian starts flailing back. But Stuckey is too strong. Vivian staggers back at the force of another slap. Stuckey slams her up against a wall and starts rubbing up against her.
STUCKEY: You got a mean streak in you, don't you. He tries to kiss her again. Is that what he likes about you? Huh? Answer me! And suddenly a HAND lands on Stuckey's shoulder. Stuckey turns his head, startled.
STUCKEY: You broke my nose.
EDWARD: I think I broke my hand. You're fired.
STUCKEY: Edward, we've been together ten And I don't like what we've become. I'll cover any losses you have on this one. Now get out, you asshole!
EDWARD: And I don't like what we've become. I'll cover any losses you have on this one. Now get out, you asshole!
STUCKEY: All this because of that whore!
EDWARD: Edward pushes Stuckey out the door and throws his briefcase after him.
STUCKEY: Edward, think about what you're
EDWARD: ( to himself, almost Well, I didn't plan that!
VIVIAN: Why do guys always know how to hit a woman? Right across the cheek, wham, so it feels like your eye is gonna explode. What do they do, take you all aside in high school and show you how? It pisses me off!
EDWARD: Not all men hit. And no one is going to hit you anymore.
VIVIAN: ( softening ) You're quite the Sir Galahad today, aren't ya'? ( a beat ) I heard what you did with Kross.
EDWARD: It was a business decision. Vivian looks at him.
EDWARD: I got tired of hating my father.
VIVIAN: ( a small smile ) It was good.
EDWARD: It felt good. Edward looks on the bed at her suitcases.
EDWARD: You're packing.
VIVIAN: ( nods ) I'm leaving. ( a moment ) Don't ya see? If I stay with you like you want me to, there'll always be some guy, your friends eve, treatin' me like that. thinkin' they're allowed to. What are you gonna do, fight'm all? No. I'll take my money now, A moment. Edward reaches for his wallet. He counts out bills. He places them in Vivian's suitcase. He puts his arms around Aw, don't. no.
VIVIAN: Aw, don't. no.
EDWARD: Stay with me tonight. Not because you're being paid to. Stay with me because you want to.
VIVIAN: I do. I do want to. That's why I'm leaving. That's what you given me, see? I know what I want now. I want a guy like you for real. Not because you buy me things and give me money. The nicest thing you ever done for me is hold my hand. You gonna give me that? Edward is silent.
VIVIAN: I didn't think so.
EDWARD: It's not your fault. You're right. Kit's right. But I want the fairy tale.
VIVIAN: It's not your fault. You're right. Kit's right. But I want the fairy tale.
BELLMAN: Let me take those, miss.
VIVIAN: Vivian sees Mr. Thomas behind the front desk.
VIVIAN: I'll be out front in a minute. I got a cab comin'. The bellman moves away. Vivian walks to the front desk.
VIVIAN: Hi, Barney!
MR. THOMAS: ( looking up ) Miss Vivian.
VIVIAN: Look I just wanted to say Mr. Harris doesn't check out until tomorrow.
MR. THOMAS: Mr. Harris doesn't check out until tomorrow.
VIVIAN: Yeah, well, I check out today.
MR. THOMAS: You're not accompanying him to New York?
VIVIAN: ( lightly ) Come on, Barney, you and me live in the real world. ( a beat ) You don't know how to treat a girl like anything but a lady, Mr. Certain ladies make that very easy. Vivian. ( turning to the desk John, call a limousine for our guest, please. Have it take her anywhere she wishes to go. Bill the hotel. ( turning back to Vivian ) See you again sometime soon. Vivian smiles softly at him. She turns and walks for the door.
MR. THOMAS: Certain ladies make that very easy. Vivian. John, call a limousine for our guest, please. Have it take her anywhere she wishes to go. Bill the hotel. See you again sometime soon. Vivian smiles softly at him. She turns and walks for the door.
DRIVER: You're sure this is the right street, ma'am?
VIVIAN: Yes. 1312. It's a big apartment EXT. VIVIAN'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY The limo pulls to a stop in front of a rundown apartment building on a dirty Hollywood side street. The Limo Driver, a large Latino man, steps out of the car and walks around to the passenger door. As he does, he surveys the surroundings uncomfortably. Ths is rough neighborhood. He opens the door. Vivian steps out.
LIMO DRIVER: Maybe I should go with you. This doesn't look like a good place for a lady to be alone. Several PEOPLE pass. All of them stare at the car, at the driver, at Vivian in her lovely clothes.
VIVIAN: I'll be okay. I'm home. Thank The driver, confused, watches her hurry up the steps to the apartment building. He drives off.
LANDLORD: Hey, we announce guests here. You a relative of somebody? Vivian lowers her sunglasses. Viv is that you?
VIVIAN: Yeah, it's me. She keeps walking.
LANDLORD: You lookin' good, Viv'. Nice threads. I gotta find time to INT. PENTHOUSE - DAY Edward stands at the penthouse window, looking out. He is dressed now, ready for travel. There is something about his expression, his somber demeanor that suggests the way we saw him at the very top of the story. A BELLMAN enters from the bedroom, rolling a luggage loaded dolly along in front of him.
BELLMAN: Is that everything, sir?
EDWARD: ( turning from the That's everything. The Bellman exits, closing the door behind him. The phone rings. Edward crosses to it, picks it up. The Maid comes in, looks around.
MAID: The lady, she go?
EDWARD: Yes. She go.
BELLHOP: Do you have a car taking you to the airport, sir?
EDWARD: INT. VIVIAN'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - DAY Vivian, looking fresh scrubbed without make-up, is wearing clean jeans, a nice looking shirt and a suit jacket. Her bureau's are open. She is packing. Kit is watching. She takes the photo of her and Kit dressed up hot in hooker clothes and packs it.
KIT: So whatta' you going to do in San Francisco?
VIVIAN: Get a job and probably go back to school. Figure out what I'm gonna be.
KIT: What kind of school?
VIVIAN: School, school. Regular. I used to get pretty good grades in school, you know.
KIT: So did I. I made it with the Study hard And get a "B." Lift your dress and an "A" you'll see. They both laugh but too hard.
VIVIAN: Want a pair of boots?
KIT: Do I!? Momma! Taking them, she sits on the bed and puts them on.
VIVIAN: You sure you won't come with me?
KIT: And leave all this? Not in a They laugh together. What time's your bus?
VIVIAN: Couple a hours.
KIT: Yeah. Well. I gotta split. Goodbye's make me crazy.
VIVIAN: Cool your jets a second. Here's some money.
KIT: No. You took care of rent, that's enough.
VIVIAN: I want to. For food, got it? Eat something before the wind blows you away.
KIT: I'm gonna pay you back next time I see ya, babe. Just wait, I'm gonna do something real nice for you some day. They hug. Shit, I'm gettin' all weepy now. Kit begins backing out of the room. Take care of you, okay? Take care of you. Love ya. Kit turns and hurries out of the apartment.
KIT: Coffee, Chan. And maybe a grilled cheese on white, okay? A very young GIRL is sitting just down the counter from Kit. Kit nods at her.
KIT: Hey, how you doin'. You new, Yeah. Got a cigarette?
GIRL: Yeah. Got a cigarette?
KIT: She passes the girl down the pack. She strikes a match, lights her cigarette for her. The girl inhales deep, lets it out with a sigh. She looks towards the window.
GIRL: Jeez, did the wacko in the suit. Kit turns to look.
KIT: Chan? Keep the sandwich warm, I'll be back. She heads out the door.
EDWARD: I'm looking for a girl, Vivian, young, dark hair, big eyes.? They shake their heads.
EDWARD: She's mouthy. Sort of Ain't seen her, wouldn't know What's wrong with us, man? Two for the price a one, what ya say?
PROSTITUTE 1: Ain't seen her, wouldn't know What's wrong with us, man? Two for the price a one, what ya say?
PROSTITUTE 2: What's wrong with us, man? Two for the price a one, what ya say?
EDWARD: ( disappointed ) Thank you. No. They turn and walk away. Edward stands there, not knowing what to do next. He looks discouraged and lost.
VIVIAN: You are really lost this time. Edward wordlessly holds up a hand for her. With a sudden cry of joy, Vivian comes down the fire escape. She stops at the bottom stair. Edward comes forward and sweeps her into his arms. They kiss. He carries her to the limo as if she's weightless. Her feet never touch the ground. The car door closes behind them. The limo drives away. The people of the street watch it go.
THE END: Writers : J.F. Lawton
