"PSYCHO": Joseph Stefano REVISED December 1, 1959
SAM: Never did eat your lunch, did you. Mary looks at his smile, has to respond, pulls him to her, kisses him. Then, and without breaking the kiss, she swings her legs over the side of the bed, toe-searches around, finds her shoes, slips her feet into searches them. And finally pulls away and sits up.
MARY: I better get back to the office. These extended lunch hours give my boss excess acid. She rises, goes to the bureau, takes a pair of small earrings out of her bag, begins putting them on, not bothering or perhaps not wanting to look at herself in the mirror. Sam watches her, concerned but unable to inhibit his cheery, humorous good mood. Throughout remainder of this scene, they occupy themselves with dressing, hair-combing, etc.
SAM: Call your boss and tell him you're taking the rest of the afternoon off. It's Friday anyway. and hot.
MARY: ( soft sarcasm ) What do I do with my free afternoon, walk you to the airport?
SAM: ( meaningfully ) We could laze around here a while Checking out time is three P.M. Hotels of this sort aren't interested in you when you come in, but when your time's up. ( a small anguish ) Sam, I hate having to be with you in a place like this.
MARY: Checking out time is three P.M. Hotels of this sort aren't interested in you when you come in, but when your time's up. Sam, I hate having to be with you in a place like this.
SAM: I've heard of married couples who deliberately spend occasional nights in cheap hotels. They say it.
MARY: ( interrupting ) When you're married you can do a lot of things deliberately.
SAM: You sure talk like a girl who's been I'm sorry, Mary. My old Dad used to say 'when you can't change a situation, laugh at it.' Nothing ridicules a thing like laughing at it.
MARY: I'm sorry, Mary. My old Dad used to say 'when you can't change a situation, laugh at it.' Nothing ridicules a thing like laughing at it.
SAM: I'm sorry, Mary. My old Dad used to say 'when you can't change a situation, laugh at it.' Nothing ridicules a thing like laughing at it.
MARY: I've lost my girlish laughter.
SAM: ( observing ) The only girlish thing you have lost.
MARY: ( a meaningful quiet, then, with difficulty: ) Sam. This is the last time.
SAM: For what?
MARY: This! Meeting you in secret so we can be. secretive! You come down here on business trips and we steal lunch hours and. I wish you wouldn't even come.
SAM: Okay. What do we do instead, write each other lurid love letters?
MARY: ( about to argue, then turning away ) I haven't time to argue. I'm a working And I'm a working man! We're a regular working-class tragedy! ( he laughs )
SAM: And I'm a working man! We're a regular working-class tragedy!
MARY: It is tragic! Or it will be. if we go on meeting in shabby hotels whenever you can find a tax-deductible excuse for flying down deductible You can't laugh at it, huh?
SAM: ( interrupting, seriously ) You can't laugh at it, huh?
MARY: Can you?
SAM: Sure. It's like laughing through a broken jaw, but. He breaks off, his cheeriness dissolved, goes to the window, tries to raise the shade. It sticks. He pulls at it. It comes down entirely, and the hot sun glares into the room, revealing it in all its shabbiness and sordidness as if corroborating Mary's words and attitude. Sam kicks at the fallen shade, laughs in frustration, grabs on to his humor And besides, when you say I make tax- deductible excuses you make me out a You couldn't be a criminal if you committed a major crime.
SAM: And besides, when you say I make tax- deductible excuses you make me out a You couldn't be a criminal if you committed a major crime.
MARY: ( having to smile ) You couldn't be a criminal if you committed a major crime.
SAM: I wish I were. Not an active criminal but. a nice guy with the conscience of a criminal. Next best thing to no conscience at I have to go, Sam.
MARY: ( pulling away ) I have to go, Sam.
SAM: I can come down next week.
MARY: Not even just to see you, to have lunch. in public?
SAM: Not even just to see you, to have lunch. in public?
MARY: We can see each other, we can even have dinner. but respectably, in my house with my mother's picture on the mantel and my sister helping me broil a big steak for three!
SAM: And after the steak. do we send Sister to the movies and turn Mama's picture to the wall?
MARY: Sam! No!
SAM: ( after a pause, simply ) All right. She stares at him, surprised at his willingness to continue the affair on her terms, as girls are so often surprised when they discover men will continue to want them even after the sexual bait has been pulled in. Sam smiles reassuringly, places his hands gently on her arms, speaks with gentle and simple sincerity.
SAM: Mary, whenever it's possible, tax- deductible or not, I want to see deductible you. And under any Even respectability.
MARY: You make respectability sound. I'm all for it! It requires patience and temperance and a lot of sweating- out. otherwise, though, it's only hard work. But if I can see you, touch you even as simply as this. I won't mind. He moves away and again the weight of his pain and problems crushes away his good humor. There is a quiet moment.
SAM: ( brightly ) I'm all for it! It requires patience and temperance and a lot of sweating- out. otherwise, though, it's only hard work. ( a pause ) But if I can see you, touch you even as simply as this. I won't mind. He moves away and again the weight of his pain and problems crushes away his good humor. There is a quiet moment.
SAM: I'm fed up with sweating for people who aren't there. I sweat to pay off my father's debts. and he's in his grave. I sweat to pay my ex-wife alimony, and she's living on the other side of the world somewhere.
MARY: ( a smile ) I pay, too. They also pay who meet in hotel rooms.
SAM: A couple of years and the debts will be paid off. And if she ever re- marries, the alimony stops. and I haven't even been married once Yeah, but when you do. you'll swing.
MARY: I haven't even been married once Yeah, but when you do. you'll swing.
SAM: Yeah, but when you do. you'll swing.
MARY: ( smiling, then with a terrible urgency ) Sam, let's go get married.
SAM: And live with me in a storeroom behind a hardware store in Fairvale. We'll have a lot of laughs. When I send my ex-wife her money, you can lick the I'll lick the stamps. He looks at her, long, pulls her close, kisses her lightly, looks out the window and stares at the wide sky.
MARY: ( a deep desperation ) I'll lick the stamps. He looks at her, long, pulls her close, kisses her lightly, looks out the window and stares at the wide sky.
SAM: You know what I'd like? A clear, empty sky. and a plane, and us in it. and somewhere a private island for sale, where we can run around without our. shoes on. And the wherewithal to buy what I'd like. Mary, you want to cut this off, go out and find yourself someone I'm thinking of it.
MARY: I'm thinking of it.
SAM: ( a cheerful shout ) How can you even think a thing like ( picking up handbag, starting for door ) Don't miss your plane.
MARY: ( picking up handbag, starting for door ) Don't miss your plane.
SAM: Hey, we can leave together can't we?
MARY: ( at door ) I'm late. and you have to put your shoes on. Mary goes out quickly, closing door behind her. As Sam stares down at his shoeless feet,
MARY: Isn't Mr. Lowery back from lunch?
CAROLINE: ( a high, bright, eager- to-talk voice laced to-with a vague Texan accent ) He's lunching with the man who's buying the Harris Street property, you know, that oil lease man. so that's why he's late. ( a pause, then, as Mary does not respond to the pointed thrust ) You getting a headache?
MARY: It'll pass. Headaches are like resolutions. you forget them soon as they stop hurting.
CAROLINE: You got aspirins? I have something. not aspirins, but my mother's doctor gave these to me the day of my wedding. Teddy was furious when he found out I'd taken tranquilizers! She rises, starts for Mary's desk, pills in hand.
MARY: Were there any calls?
CAROLINE: Teddy called. Me. And my mother called to see if Teddy called. Oh, and your sister called to say she's going to Tucson to do some buying and she'll be gone the whole weekend She breaks off, distracted by the SOUND of the door opening. MR. LOWERY and his oil-lease client, TOM CASSIDY enter the office. Lowery is a pleasant, worried-faced man, big and a trifle pompous. Cassidy is very faced loud and has a lunch- hour load on. He is a gross man, exuding a kind of pitiful Wow! Hot as fresh milk! You girls should get your boss to air-condition you up. He can afford it today. Lowery flashes an embarrassed smile at Mary, tries to lead Cassidy toward the private office.
CASSIDY: Wow! Hot as fresh milk! You girls should get your boss to air-condition you up. He can afford it today. Lowery flashes an embarrassed smile at Mary, tries to lead Cassidy toward the private office.
LOWERY: Mary, will you get those copies of the deed ready for Mr. Cassidy. Cassidy pauses beside Mary's desk, hooks a haunch onto the desktop, smiles a wet smile at Mary.
CASSIDY: Tomorrow's the day! My sweet little Not you, my daughter! A baby, and tomorrow she stands up there and gets her sweet self married away from me! I want you to look at my baby. Eighteen years old. and she's never had an unhappy day in any one of those years! Mary glances, cannot bring herself to smile or make some remark, continues sorting out the deed copies, tries to ignore the man's hot-breath closeness.
LOWERY: Come on, Tom, my office is air- You know what I do with unhappiness? I buy it off! You unhappy?
CASSIDY: ( ignoring Lowery ) You know what I do with unhappiness? I buy it off! You unhappy?
MARY: Not inordinately.
CASSIDY: I'm buying this house for my baby's wedding present. Forty thousand dollars, cash! Now that ain't buying happiness, that's buying off unhappiness! That penniless punk she's marryin'. Probably a good kid. it's just that I hate him. Yup! Forty thousand, says here. He takes out of his inside pocket, two separate bundles of new $100 bills and throws them onto the desk, under Mary's nose. Caroline's eyes go wide at the sight of the glorious green bundles of bills, and she comes close to the desk. Cassidy leans terribly close to Mary, flicks through the bills, laughs wickedly.
CASSIDY: I never carry more than I can afford to lose! Count 'em!
LOWERY: ( shocked, worried ) Tom. cash transactions of this size! Most irregular.
CASSIDY: So what? It's my private money! And now it's yours.
CAROLINE: ( staring at the money ) I declare!
CASSIDY: ( whispering ) I don't! That's how I'm able to keep ( laughs )
LOWERY: ( hastily interrupting ) Suppose we just put this in the safe and then Monday morning when you're feeling good.
CASSIDY: Speakin' of feeling good, where's that bottle you said you had in your Usually I can keep my mouth shut! He rises, reels toward Lowery's office, pauses, turns, speaks to Mary, meaningfully.
CASSIDY: Honest. I can keep any private transaction a secret. any pri.. Lowery! I'm dyin' of thirstaroonie! Lowery starts after him, pauses, turns to Mary. Cassidy has gone into Lower's office.
LOWERY: ( quietly ) I don't even want it in the office over the weekend. Put it in the safe deposit box, at the bank, Mary. And we'll get him to give us a check on Monday - instead. He starts quickly away when it looks like Cassidy is going to come and pull him bodily into the office. When the men are gone and the door is closed, Caroline picks up a bundle, smiles at it.
CAROLINE: He was flirting with you. I guess he noticed my wedding ring. Mary has put one bundle into a large envelope and takes the other from Caroline. When the bills are away, she puts the filled envelope in her handbag, notices the remaining deed copies on her desk, picks them up, goes to the private office door, knocks, starts to open door as:
MARY: The copies. Mr. Lowery, if you don't mind, I'd like to go right on home after the bank. I have a slight.
CASSIDY: You go right home! Me and your boss are going out to get ourselves a little drinkin' done! Of course. You feeling ill?
LOWERY: ( to Mary ) Of course. You feeling ill?
MARY: A headache.
CASSIDY: You need a week-end in Las Vegas. playground of the world!
MARY: I'm going to spend this week-end in
CASSIDY: ( to Lowery ) Only playground that beats Las Vegas! Mary goes back out into the outer office, closes door.
CAROLINE: Aren't you going to take the pills? They'll knock that headache out.
MARY: I don't need pills. just sleep. She goes to the door.
CAR: The car grows smaller as it races up the road. The sun is setting. There is something vaguely ominous about the darkening sky into which the car seems to be disappearing.
PATROLMAN: ( startled ) Hold it there! Mary slams down on the brake, tries to pull herself together. The Patrolman raps again, less gently. Reluctantly, Mary rolls down the window. The Patrolman studies her for a moment.
PATROLMAN: In quite a hurry.
MARY: ( because he seems to be awaiting an explanation ) I didn't mean to sleep so long. I was afraid I'd have an accident last night, from sleepiness. so I decided to pull over.
PATROLMAN: You slept here all night?
MARY: ( a faint edge of defensiveness ) Yes. As I said, I couldn't keep my ( mere concern ) There are plenty of motels in this area. You should have. I mean, just to be safe.
PATROLMAN: ( mere concern ) There are plenty of motels in this area. You should have. I mean, just to be safe.
MARY: I didn't intend to sleep all night! I just pulled over. have I broken any laws?
PATROLMAN: No, m'am.
MARY: Then I'm free to go.?
PATROLMAN: ( a pause ) Is anything wrong?
MARY: Of course not! Am I acting as if. something's wrong?
PATROLMAN: ( almost a smile ) Frankly, yes.
MARY: Please. I'd like to go.
PATROLMAN: Is there?
MARY: Is there what? I've told you there's nothing wrong. except that I'm in a hurry and you're taking up my time.
PATROLMAN: ( interrupting, sternly ) Now wait just a moment! Turn your motor off, please. Mary seems about to object, thinks better of it, turns off the ignition.
PATROLMAN: In the course of my duty, I never "take up" anyone's time, whether it's to give a warning, or a ticket, or help! Believe that, M'am. Now if you woke up on the wrong side of. the car seat, that's one thing. But when you act as if I've just placed you under arrest.
MARY: I'm sorry.
PATROLMAN: No need to apologize. Mary starts the car, her face turned as if she wishes the matter were all settled and the Patrolman had already gone. The Patrolman isn't exactly one of those civil servants who demands a thank-you, but he does feel her manner is a bit too abrupt. He calls:
PATROLMAN: Wait a minute!
MARY: ( jamming down the brake ) Now what? The Patrolman gazes at her a moment, then:
PATROLMAN: May I see your license?
MARY: Mary pulls her handbag up from the floor, where she'd placed it when she stretched out for sleep. She puts her hand in it, rummages for her wallet, cannot find it. The Patrolman is staring at her. She glances at him nervously, pokes in her bag a bit more, sighs, realizes she'll have to remove some of its contents. Nervously, badly controlling her fear, she takes out the money-filled envelope, and then the important papers envelope, filled then a couple of other items, places them on the seat, finally finds her wallet, opens it, hands it to him. He looks at the wallet, then at the car.
PATROLMAN: Mary pulls her handbag up from the floor, where she'd placed it when she stretched out for sleep. She puts her hand in it, rummages for her wallet, cannot find it. The Patrolman is staring at her. She glances at him nervously, pokes in her bag a bit more, sighs, realizes she'll have to remove some of its contents. Nervously, badly controlling her fear, she takes out the money-filled envelope, and then the important papers envelope, filled then a couple of other items, places them on the seat, finally finds her wallet, opens it, hands it to him. He looks at the wallet, then at the car.
CAR DEALER: With you in a second! Mary nods, starts walking along the line of cars as if making a selection. Her eye is caught by the iron newspaper stand on the corner, just outside the lot. She stares at the papers, turns away, as if what she is fearing would have to be impossible, then, having to satisfy herself, goes to the stand, drops a dime in the iron slot, picks up a LOS ANGELES newspaper, starts back into the car lot as she glances worried at the front page. As she goes, we see, coming up the street toward the lot, the same PATROLMAN. He sees Mary, slows, swerves over to the opposite side of the street, stops by the curb. Mary, engrossed in the newspaper, and walking back ease the lot, does not see the Patrolman. The car dealer is out on the lot now, standing and waiting for Mary. As she approaches, lost in her newspaper, he smiles.
CAR DEALER: I'm in no mood for trouble!
MARY: ( glancing up, thrown for a moment ) ( cheerfully ) There's an old saying, "First customer of the day is always the most trouble!" But like I said, I'm in no mood for it so I'm just going to treat you so fair and square you won't have one human reason to give ( interrupting ) Can I trade in my car and take You can do anything you've a mind to. and bein' a woman, you will! ( chin-indicating her car ) That yours?
CAR DEALER: ( cheerfully ) There's an old saying, "First customer of the day is always the most trouble!" But like I said, I'm in no mood for it so I'm just going to treat you so fair and square you won't have one human reason to give ( interrupting ) Can I trade in my car and take You can do anything you've a mind to. and bein' a woman, you will! ( chin-indicating her car ) That yours?
MARY: ( interrupting ) Can I trade in my car and take You can do anything you've a mind to. and bein' a woman, you will! ( chin-indicating her car ) That yours?
CAR DEALER: You can do anything you've a mind to. and bein' a woman, you will! That yours?
MARY: Yes, it's. nothing wrong with it, I'm just.
CAR DEALER: Sick of the sight of it! Well, suppose you look around for something that strikes your eyes and meanwhile I'll have my mechanic give yours the once over and. want some coffee? I was just about.
MARY: No. Thank you. I'm in. a hurry. I just want to make a change and She stops suddenly, almost with a gasp. She has seen the THE PATROLMAN - MARY'S POV - ( DAY ) He is staring over at her, his face dispassionate.
CAR DEALER: One thing people never ought to be when they're buying a used car is in a hurry! But like I said, too nice a day for arguing. I'll just shoot this into the garage. He starts into Mary's car. She looks at him, in near panic, wanting to skip the whole thing. Torn, wondering if the presence of the Patrolman doesn't negate the value of changing cars, wondering how she can get away, wondering if she'll be followed, or if the Patrolman will go away if she does stay All these panic-fears rush her mind and she can do nothing. The Car Dealer has driven her car into the garage. She stands in the middle of the lot, feeling like a shooting target. She looks toward the garage.
CAR DEALER: That's the one I'd've picked for you How much?
MARY: How much?
CAR DEALER: Go ahead! Spin it around the block. Now I know you don't know anything about engine condition, but you can feel, can't you. and it's all in the feel, believe me, you feel that one around the block.
MARY: It looks fine. How much will it be, with my car.?
CAR DEALER: You mean you don't want the usual day and a half to think it over? You are in a hurry! Somebody chasin' Of course not. Please.
MARY: Of course not. Please.
CAR DEALER: Well. heck, this is the first time I ever saw the customer high-pressure the salesman! I'd figure roughly. .your car plus five hundred.
MARY: Five hundred.
CAR DEALER: Aha! Always got time to argue money, All right. As the car dealer looks at her in amazement, she reaches into her bag, feels the money-filled envelope, pauses.
MARY: All right. As the car dealer looks at her in amazement, she reaches into her bag, feels the money-filled envelope, pauses.
CAR DEALER: ( slowly ) I take it. you can prove that car's yours. I mean, out of state and all. got your pink slip and your.
MARY: I think I have the necessary papers. Is there a Ladies Room.
CAR DEALER: In the building . Mary starts for the building, glancing once in the direction of the THE PATROLMAN - MARY'S POV - ( DAY ) He still sits, his motor throbbing, his face quiet.
CAR DEALER: ( too cheerfully ) I think you'd better give it a trial spin. Don't want any bad word of mouth about California Charlie.
MARY: I'd really rather not. Please. Can't we just settle this and.
CAR DEALER: I'll be perfectly honest with you, Ma'am. It's not that I don't trust you, but.
MARY: ( interrupting ) But what? Is there anything so terribly wrong about. making a decision and wanting to hurry? Do you think I've stolen. my car?
CAR DEALER: No, M'am. I was only about to say, I've sent my mechanic out to give your car a little test. that's I'd like to be ready when he gets Okay. If you'll come along. He starts toward the office building. Mary follows, closely, anxiously. She glances, sees:
MARY: ( handing him the ownership papers and the new bills ) I'd like to be ready when he gets Okay. If you'll come along. He starts toward the office building. Mary follows, closely, anxiously. She glances, sees:
CAR DEALER: Okay. If you'll come along. He starts toward the office building. Mary follows, closely, anxiously. She glances, sees:
MECHANIC: Hey! Miss? Mary pauses, turns, sees the Patrolman, then the Mechanic. Her face goes white. She doesn't know which man called her. Then the Mechanic waves, starts forward with her suitcase.
MARY: ( as Mechanic reaches car ) Just put it right in here, please. beside me. The Mechanic smiles, throws the suitcase in. Mary zooms off. As she drives out of lot we see the Mechanic, the Car Dealer and the Patrolman all looking after her.
PATROLMAN'S VOICE: I better have a look at those papers, She look like a wrong-one to you?
PATROLMAN'S VOICE: Acted like one. Mary blinks, shakes her head, as if trying to shake away these voices of her imagination. She checks the rear-view MARY'S REAR-VIEW MIRROR Still no sight of the Patrolman.
CAROLINE'S VOICE: Yes, Mr. Lowery.
LOWERY'S VOICE: ( a worried tone ) Caroline.? Mary still isn't in?
CAROLINE'S VOICE: No, Mr. Lowery. but then she's always a bit late on Monday mornings.
LOWERY'S VOICE: Buzz me the minute she comes in. Again Mary shakes her head, forces herself to stop hearing these "invented" scenes of her imagination.
LOWERY'S VOICE: Call her sister! If no one's answering at the house..
CAROLINE'S VOICE: I called her sister, Mr. Lowery, where she works, the Music Makers Music Store, you know? And she doesn't know where Mary is any more than we You better run out to the house. She may be. unable to answer the Her sister's going to do that. She's as worried as we are. A flush of painful guilt and regret rises up in Mary's face. She closes her eyes for one tight swift moment.
LOWERY'S VOICE: You better run out to the house. She may be. unable to answer the Her sister's going to do that. She's as worried as we are. A flush of painful guilt and regret rises up in Mary's face. She closes her eyes for one tight swift moment.
CAROLINE'S VOICE: Her sister's going to do that. She's as worried as we are. A flush of painful guilt and regret rises up in Mary's face. She closes her eyes for one tight swift moment.
LOWERY'S VOICE: No! I haven't the faintest idea. As I said, I last saw your sister when she left this office on Friday. she said she didn't feel well and wanted to leave early and I said she could. And that was the last I saw. .wait a minute, I did see her, an hour or so later, driving. Ah, I think you'd better come over here to my office. Quick. Caroline, get Mr. Cassidy for me.
LOWERY'S VOICE: After all, Cassidy, I told you. all that cash. I'm not taking the responsibility. Oh, for heaven's sake, a girl works for you for ten years, you trust her! All right, yes, you better come over.
CASSIDY'S VOICE: ( undrunk, sharp with rage ) Well I ain't about to kiss off forty thousand dollars! I'll get it back and if any of it's missin' I'll replace it with her fine soft flesh! I'll track her, never you doubt it!
LOWERY'S VOICE: Hold on, Cassidy. I still can't believe. it must be some kind of a mystery. I can't.
CASSIDY'S VOICE: You checked with the bank, no? They never laid eyes on her, no? You still trustin'? Hot creepers, she sat there while I dumped it out. hardly even looked at it, plannin' and. and even flirtin' with me.! A look of revulsion makes Mary close her eyes.
MARY'S VIEWPOINT: An almost undiscernible light in the far distance, a neon sign blurred by the rain-sheeted windshield.
MARY'S CAR: She presses down, forces the car to move on through the flooded road.
NORMAN: Dirty night.
MARY: ( not really a question ) You have a vacancy?
NORMAN: ( simply, almost cheerfully ) We have twelve vacancies. Twelve cabins, twelve vacancies. ( a pause ) They moved away the highway.
MARY: I thought I'd gotten off the main.
NORMAN: I knew you must have. No one stops here anymore unless they do. He is behind the counter now, pushing forward the registration But it's no good dwelling on our losses, is it. We go right ahead lighting signs and following the formalities. Would you sign, Mary has placed her handbag on the counter. She takes the registration book, picks up the pen, is suddenly struck with the realization that she'd better use an alias. She writes the name Marie Samuels.
NORMAN: But it's no good dwelling on our losses, is it. We go right ahead lighting signs and following the formalities. Would you sign, Mary has placed her handbag on the counter. She takes the registration book, picks up the pen, is suddenly struck with the realization that she'd better use an alias. She writes the name Marie Samuels.
NORMAN: Your home address. Oh, just the town will do.
MARY: ( glancing at newspaper sticking out of her handbag ) Los Angeles. She realizes he didn't ask her to tell him, merely to write it down. She smiles, writes Los Angeles beside the false name. Norman smiles, stops smiling out of embarrassment.
NORMAN: Cabin One. It's closer in case you want anything. right next to the CLOSEUP - NORMAN He removes a key for Cabin One. We see that there is a remaining key on the board.
MARY: I want sleep more than anything. Except maybe, food.
NORMAN: There's a big diner about ten miles on up. just outside Fairvale.
MARY: Am I that close to Fairvale?
NORMAN: Fifteen miles. I'll get your bags. He goes to door, opens it. The rain has slowed down considerably. He smiles at this fact, as if to communicate some pleasure he finds in it. Mary follows him to the door, goes out on the porch, waits and watches as Norman runs to her car, gets in, drives it to the parking space in front of Cabin One. Mary walks along the porch, waits before the door of Cabin One. Norman gets out of car, with suitcase, runs to the door, opens it, pushes the door open, puts his hand in and switches on a light. Mary goes into the cabin. Norman follows her.
NORMAN: Stuffy in here. Well. the mattress is soft and there're hangers in the closet and. stationary with "Bates' Motel" printed on it in case you want to make your friends back home envious. and. the. over there..
MARY: The bathroom.
NORMAN: ( quickly, starting to leave ) I'll be in the office if you want anything. just tap on the wall.
MARY: Thank you, Mr. Bates.
NORMAN: Norman Bates. He pauses at the door, gazes at her. She smiles.
NORMAN: You have something most girls never I have?
MARY: I have?
NORMAN: There's no name for it. But it's something that, that puts a person at ease.
MARY: Thank you. Again.
NORMAN: ( not really a question ) You're not going to go out again and drive up to that diner, are you?
MARY: Then will you do me a favor? Will you have supper here? I was just about to, myself. nothing more than some sandwiches and a lot of milk, but I'd like it if you'd come up to the house and. I don't set a fancy table but. the kitchen's awful homey.
NORMAN: Then will you do me a favor? Will you have supper here? I was just about to, myself. nothing more than some sandwiches and a lot of milk, but I'd like it if you'd come up to the house and. I don't set a fancy table but. the kitchen's awful homey.
MARY: I'd like to.
NORMAN: All right, you get your dresses hanging out and. change those wet shoes, and I'll come for you soon as it's ready. .with my trusty umbrella. Mary closes the door, goes to suitcase, opens it, starts to take out a dress. Her handbag is next to the suitcase. She glances down into it, pauses, drops the dress, reaches into the handbag, takes out the money-filled envelope, stares at it, almost with regret, filled contemplates hiding it, decides to, starts looking for a reasonable hiding place. She looks about, at the closet, the drawers etc., realizes all such places are obvious. Catching sight of the newspaper in her bag, she hits on a solution. She opens the newspaper, places the envelope within it, lock-folds the paper again and then places it on the bedside table as if it were there for later reading. She considers this for a moment, accepts it, goes to her suitcase to start unpacking. Suddenly the quiet is shattered by the shrill, ugly sound of a woman's voice, raised in anger.
WOMAN'S VOICE: No! I tell you no! Mary walks slowly to the window, realizing that the terrible voice is coming from the house behind the cabins. CAMERA FOLLOWS her to window and once there we see the light is still on in the upstairs bedroom and the voice is coming from that room. The rain has stopped and the moon is out.
WOMAN'S VOICE: I won't have you bringing strange young girls in for supper. .by candlelight, I suppose, in the cheap erotic fashion of young men with cheap, erotic minds!
NORMAN'S VOICE: Mother, please.
WOMAN'S VOICE: And then what? After supper, music? Mother, she's just a stranger. hungry, and the weather's bad.
NORMAN'S VOICE: Mother, she's just a stranger. hungry, and the weather's bad.
WOMAN'S VOICE: ( mimicking cruelly ) Mother, she's just a stranger! ( hard, cruel again ) As if men don't desire strangers, as if. oh, I refuse to speak of disgusting things because they disgust me! You understand, Boy?
WOMAN'S VOICE: ( pause ) Go on, go tell her she'll not be appeasing her ugly appetite with my food. or my son! Or do I have to tell her, cause you don't have the guts? Huh, boy? You have the guts, ( blurted cut fury and shame ) Shut up! Shut up! There is the SOUND of a door closing in that room up there. Mary has stood by the window, listening with mounting distress and concern and sympathy. She turns her face away now, gazes sadly at the little empty room. In a moment there is the SOUND of the house's front door slamming shut. Mary turns, looks out the window.
NORMAN'S VOICE: ( blurted cut fury and shame ) Shut up! Shut up! There is the SOUND of a door closing in that room up there. Mary has stood by the window, listening with mounting distress and concern and sympathy. She turns her face away now, gazes sadly at the little empty room. In a moment there is the SOUND of the house's front door slamming shut. Mary turns, looks out the window.
MARY: I've caused you some trouble.
NORMAN: ( a hollow little laugh, an attempt at sardonic humor ) .what is the phrase. "she isn't herself today". I think that's it.
MARY: ( looking at the tray ) You shouldn't have bothered. I really don't have that much of an appetite. Norman flinches, realizing she has heard his mother's reference to Mary's appetite.
NORMAN: I'm sorry. I wish. people could apologize for other people.
MARY: Don't worry about it. But as long as you've made us supper, we may as well eat it. Huh? She begins to back into her room. Norman starts to follow, hesitates as he sees the total picture of an attractive young woman and a motel room. Bringing down the tray of food, in defiance of his mother's orders, is about the limit of his defiance for one day. He cannot go into Mary's room.
NORMAN: It might be nicer. warmer in the Without waiting for approval or disapproval, he turns, hurries to the office. Mary looks after him, her face showing amused sympathy, then follows.
NORMAN: Eating in an office. .to officious, even for me. I have the parlor behind this. if you'd Mary nods. Norman walks on, behind the counter and into the darkened parlor. Mary follows.
NORMAN: Please sit down. On the sofa. As Norman goes about spreading out the bread and ham and pouring the milk, we follow Mary across the room. She studies the birds as she walks, briefly examines a bookcase stacked with books on the subject of "Taxidermy."
MARY: You're very. kind.
NORMAN: It's all for you. I'm not hungry. Please go ahead. Mary begins to eat, her attitude a bit tense. She takes up a small slice of ham, bites off a tiny bite, nibbles at it in the manner of one disturbed and preoccupied. Norman gazes at her, at the tiny bite she has taken, smiles and then laughs.
NORMAN: You eat like a bird.
MARY: You'd know, of course.
NORMAN: Not really. I hear that expression, that one eats "like a bird," is really a falsie, I mean a falsity, because birds eat a tremendous lot. Oh, I don't know anything about birds. My hobby is stuffing things. taxidermy. And I guess I'd just rather stuff birds because. well, I hate the look of beasts when they're stuffed, foxes and chimps and all. some people even stuff dogs and cats. but I can't. I think only birds look well stuffed because they're rather. passive, to begin with. most of them. He trails off, his exuberance failing in the rushing return of his natural hesitancy and discomfort. Mary looks at him, with some compression, smiles.
MARY: It's a strange hobby. Curious, I Uncommon, too.
NORMAN: Uncommon, too.
MARY: I imagine so.
NORMAN: It's not as expensive as you'd think. Cheap, really. Needles, thread, sawdust .. the chemicals are all that cost anything.
MARY: A man should have a hobby.
NORMAN: It's more than a hobby. sometimes. a hobby is supposed to pass the time, not fill it.
MARY: ( after a pause, softly ) Is your time so empty?
NORMAN: Oh, no! I run the office, tend the cabins and grounds, do little chores for mother. the ones she allows I might be capable of doing.
MARY: You go out. with friends?
NORMAN: Friends? Who needs friends. A boy's best friend is his mother. You've never had an empty moment in your whole life. Have you?
MARY: Only my share.
NORMAN: Where are you going? I don't mean to I'm looking for a private island.
MARY: ( A wistful smile ) I'm looking for a private island.
NORMAN: What are you running away from?
MARY: ( Alert ) Why do you ask that?
NORMAN: No. People never run away from The rain didn't last very long. You know what I think? I think we're all in our private traps, clamped in them, and none of us can ever climb out. We scratch and claw. but only at the air, only at each other, and for all of it, we never budge an Sometimes we deliberately step into those traps.
MARY: Sometimes we deliberately step into those traps.
NORMAN: I was born in mine. I don't mind it You should. mind it.
MARY: You should. mind it.
NORMAN: Oh I do. but I say I don't.
MARY: ( Staring at him, shaking her head softly. ) If anyone ever spoke to me, the way I heard. The way she spoke to you, I don't think I could ever laugh ( Controlled resentment ) Sometimes when she talks that way to me I'd like to. curse her out and leave her forever! ( A rueful smile ) Or at least, defy her. ( A pause, a hopeless shrug ) But I couldn't. She's ill.
NORMAN: ( Controlled resentment ) Sometimes when she talks that way to me I'd like to. curse her out and leave her forever! ( A rueful smile ) Or at least, defy her. ( A pause, a hopeless shrug ) But I couldn't. She's ill.
MARY: She sounded strong.
NORMAN: I mean. ill. She had to raise me all by herself after my dad died. I was only five. and it must have been a strain. Oh, she didn't have to go out to work or anything, Dad left us with a little something. anyway, a few years ago. Mother met a man. He talked her into building this motel. We could have talked her into anything. and when. Well. It was just too much for her when he died, too. And the way he died. Oh, it's nothing to talk about when you're eating. Anyway, it was too much of a loss for my mother. she had nothing Except you.
MARY: ( Critically ) Except you.
NORMAN: A son is a poor substitute for a
MARY: Why don't you go away?
NORMAN: To a private island, like you?
MARY: No, not like me.
NORMAN: It's too late for me. And besides. who'd look after her? She'd be alone up there, the fire would go out. damp and cold, like a grave. When you love someone, you don't do that to them, even if you hate them. Oh, I don't hate her. I hate. what she's become. I hate. the illness.
MARY: ( Slowly, carefully ) Wouldn't it be better if you put her in. someplace. She hesitates. Norman turns, slowly, looking at her with a striking coldness.
NORMAN: An Institution? A madhouse? People always call a madhouse "someplace." Put her in Someplace!
MARY: I'm sorry. I didn't mean it to sound uncaring.
NORMAN: ( The coldness turning to tight fury ) What do you mean about caring? Have you ever seen one of those places? Inside? Laughing and tears and cruel eyes studying you. and my mother there? Why? has she harmed you? She's as harmless as. one of these stuffed birds.
MARY: I am sorry. I only felt. it seemed she was harming you. I meant.
NORMAN: ( High fury now ) Well? You meant well? People always mean well, they cluck their thick tongues and shake their heads and suggest so very delicately that. The fury suddenly dies, abruptly and completely, and he sinks back into his chair. There is a brief silence. Mary watches the troubled man, is almost physically pained by his anguish.
NORMAN: ( Quietly ) I've suggested it myself. But I hate to even think such a thing. She needs me. and it isn't. ( Looks up with a childlike pleading in his eyes ) .it isn't as if she were a maniac, a raving thing. it's just that. sometimes she goes a little mad. We all go a little mad sometimes. Haven't ( After a long thoughtful pause ) Yes, and just one time can be enough. ( Rises ) Thank you.
MARY: ( After a long thoughtful pause ) Yes, and just one time can be enough. ( Rises ) Thank you.
NORMAN: ( Cheerfully, correcting ) Thank you, Norman.
MARY: You're not going to. to your room I'm very tired. And I'll have a long drive tomorrow. All the way back to I stepped into a private trap back there and I want to go back and. try to pull myself out. Before it's too late for me, too.
NORMAN: You're not going to. to your room I'm very tired. And I'll have a long drive tomorrow. All the way back to I stepped into a private trap back there and I want to go back and. try to pull myself out. Before it's too late for me, too.
MARY: I'm very tired. And I'll have a long drive tomorrow. All the way back to I stepped into a private trap back there and I want to go back and. try to pull myself out. Before it's too late for me, too.
NORMAN: I stepped into a private trap back there and I want to go back and. try to pull myself out. Before it's too late for me, too.
MARY: I stepped into a private trap back there and I want to go back and. try to pull myself out. Before it's too late for me, too.
NORMAN: ( Looking at her ) Why don't you stay a little while, just for talking.
MARY: I'd like to, but.
NORMAN: Alright. I'll see you in the morning. I'll bring you breakfast. What time will you.
MARY: Very early. Dawn.
NORMAN: Alright, Miss.
MARY: That's it.
NORMAN: That's it.
MARY: Good night. She goes out of the parlor. We see her, from Norman's viewpoint, as she crosses the small office, goes out into the night. Norman turns and looks at the table, and we see his face now. It is bright with that drunken-like look of determination and encouragement and like resolve. He starts to clean up the table, pauses as he hears the closing of Mary's door in the cabin next door. He holds still, listens. He goes into the office and looks at the book.
NORMAN'S VIEWPOINT: Through the hole we look into Mary's cabin, see Mary undressing. She is in her bra and halfslip. She stoops over a bit, places her hands behind her upper back, begins to unhook her bra.
NORMAN'S VIEWPOINT: Mary, just slipping into a robe, covering her complete nudity.
NORMAN: He turns from the hole, faces us for a moment, continues turning until he can look out the small parlor window. We see, as he sees.
NORMAN: He turns his face away, quickly, resentfully. In his face we see anger and anguish. And then resolve. Quickly, precisely, he rehangs the picture over the hole in the wall, turns, starts out of the parlor. We see him go through the office and out onto the porch, not even bothering to close the door behind him.
THE SLASHING: An impression of a knife slashing, as if tearing at the very screen, ripping the film. Over it the brief gulps of screaming. And then silence. And then the dreadful thump as Mary's body falls in the tub.
REVERSE ANGLE: The blank whiteness, the blur of the shower water, the hand pulling the shower curtain back. We catch one flicker of a glimpse of the murderer. A woman, her face contorted with madness, her head wild with hair, as if she were wearing a fright-wig. And then we see only the curtain, closed across the tub, and hear the rush of the shower water. Above the shower-bar we see the bathroom door open again and after a moment we HEAR the SOUND of the front door slamming.
NORMAN'S VOICE: Mother! Oh God, what. blood, blood. mother.! We cannot entirely distinguish these exclamations. After a moment or two of silence, Norman emerges from the front door, dashes down the path toward the motel.
CLOSE SHOT: We see his hands being washed, see the bloodstains being diluted and washed away by the gush of the faucet water.
NORMAN: We see Norman shake his hands free of the water, then turn to the job of cleaning the bathroom. He places the pail in the tub, runs water into it, dips the mop in, swabs the tile floor. With a towel he wipes off the wall over the tub and the edges and sides of the tub and even the shower curtain rod. Then he takes a second towel and goes over the cleaned areas, carefully drying them. Finally he rinses and squeezes out the mop, empties the pail, cleans out the tub, and goes out into the bedroom.
NORMAN: We see the relief in his face. He looks at the car. More than two-thirds of it have already sunk into the swamp. The trunk alone seems to hold poised above the sand and slime, as if refusing to go the rest of the way. Norman begins to panic, he steps dangerously close, pushes with his foot. And slowly the car sinks, until finally it is gone and we hear only the gentle plop of the swamp's final gulp, and see only the small after-bubble, like a visual burp. Norman waits a moment, then begins stamping out the tire marks, so obvious in the wet ground around the swamp. He stamps and drags his feet over the markings as we:
FADE IN: INT. BACK ROOM OF SAM'S HARDWARE STORE IN FAIRVALE - ( DAY ) Sam is seated at his desk, writing a letter. Sequence begins with CAMERA IN CLOSE, over Sam's shoulder, and we can read as mush as he has written of the letter. The letterhead reads "Sam Loomis - Hardware," and the letter reads: "Dearest right-as-always Mary: I'm sitting in this tiny back room which isn't big enough for both of us, and suddenly it looks big enough for both of us. So what if we're poor and cramped and miserable, at least we'll be happy! If you haven't come to your senses, and still want to. CAMERA begins PULLING AWAY as Sam turns the sheet of paper over, continues backing away out of the small back room and heads, backwards, down the corridor, we see a young clerk, BOB SUMMERFIELD, Sam's assistant, standing behind the counter, a look of handsome patience on his face. He is waiting on a meticulous, elderly woman customer, who is holding and examining a large can of insecticide. As CAMERA PASSES:
WOMAN CUSTOMER: .They tell you what its ingredients are and how it's guaranteed to exterminate any insect in the world, but they do not tell you whether or not it's painless. And I say insect or man, death should always be CAMERA, by this has reached the front door of the hardware store and we now see a girl standing just inside the door. She is an attractive girl with a rather definite manner, a look of purposefulness. She carries a handbag and a small overnight case. She is Mary's sister, LILA CRANE. Bob Summerfield has noticed Lila, smiles brightly at her, gives her an I'll-be-with-you-in-a-moment nod. Lila starts to walk toward the counter, never taking her eyes off Bob. As she approaches, she asks quietly:
LILA: You want to see Sam?
SUMMERFIELD: You want to see Sam?
LILA: Sam Loomis.
SUMMERFIELD: ( yelling toward back room ) Sam! Lady wants to see you! Lila looks to the back room. The woman customer goes on worriedly examining the fine print of the insecticide can. Sam comes to the door of his room, pauses, looks at Lila a moment, starts toward her, his expression indicating that he does not know her. Lila studies him with a quiet, worried May I talk to you?
SAM: May I talk to you?
LILA: May I talk to you?
SAM: ( a bit mystified ) Lila glances at the customer and the clerk, turns, starts toward the front of the store. Sam holds a moment, then follows. As he reaches her, she turns, her eyes studying him intently as she says:
LILA: I'm Mary's sister.
SAM: ( quickly ) Is Mary here? Sam is mystified, and is also aware of the worried, hostile expression on Lila's face. He studies her for a quiet moment. Behind them is a display of various size carving knives.
LILA: ( quickly ) Is Mary here? Sam is mystified, and is also aware of the worried, hostile expression on Lila's face. He studies her for a quiet moment. Behind them is a display of various size carving knives.
SAM: Is something wrong?
LILA: I want to know if my sister is here.
SAM: With you.
LILA: With you.
SAM: I don't know where. In your store, somewhere in your town. anywhere.
LILA: I don't know where. In your store, somewhere in your town. anywhere.
SAM: What's the matter?
LILA: Don't you know? As Sam is about to speak, the Woman Customer comes sailing past, speaking as she goes and wearing a satisfied smile.
WOMAN CUSTOMER: All I can do is hope if it isn't painless, it's quick! She speaks "quick" with a kind of delicious bite, nods happily, goes on out of the store. Sam is now staring apprehensively at Lila.
SAM: What should I know?
LILA: To begin with, where Mary is. Do No. I take it you don't either? How long?
SAM: No. I take it you don't either? How long?
LILA: Last Friday. She left work, and home. I was in Tucson over the weekend. I haven't heard from her, not even a phone call.
SAM: And you thought she'd come up here, to me? If she had, what reason would she have for not calling you?
LILA: A good reason, I suppose.
SAM: ( Slightly exasperated ) Well what do you think, we eloped or something? Or we're living in sin Mr. Loomis, you're so busy being defensive that you haven't even reacted to the most serious fact of all. Mary is missing.
LILA: Mr. Loomis, you're so busy being defensive that you haven't even reacted to the most serious fact of all. Mary is missing.
SAM: I was getting to that!
LILA: What do you know about it?
SAM: Nothing! You're putting me on the Look, if you two are in this thing together, I don't care, it's none of my business. But I want to see Mary. I want her to tell me she's all right and it's none of my business. Then I'll go back to Phoenix She stops, the anxiety and fear building up in her, her eyes beginning to fill with worried tears. Sam studies her for a moment, then turns and calls:
LILA: Look, if you two are in this thing together, I don't care, it's none of my business. But I want to see Mary. I want her to tell me she's all right and it's none of my business. Then I'll go back to Phoenix She stops, the anxiety and fear building up in her, her eyes beginning to fill with worried tears. Sam studies her for a moment, then turns and calls:
SAM: Bob? Run out and get yourself some It's okay, Sam, I brought it with Run out and eat it. Bob gets the message, goes out through the back way. Sam goes closer to Lila, speaks with soft seriousness.
SUMMERFIELD: It's okay, Sam, I brought it with Run out and eat it. Bob gets the message, goes out through the back way. Sam goes closer to Lila, speaks with soft seriousness.
SAM: Run out and eat it. Bob gets the message, goes out through the back way. Sam goes closer to Lila, speaks with soft seriousness.
SAM: What thing?
LILA: What thing could we be in together?
SAM: What thing could we be in together?
LILA: ( A pause ) I hate tears. ( Takes out hankie )
SAM: Is Mary. in trouble?
LILA: Well why didn't she come to me. call me.?
SAM: Well why didn't she come to me. call me.?
LILA: Not that kind. You men and your egos.
SAM: ( Seriously ) Never mind my ego. Let's talk about Their attention is distracted by a man who has strolled quietly into the room. He ignores them, walks past them, goes behind the counter, takes down a sign reading "CLOSED FOR LUNCH," walks back to the door, closes door, hangs the sign across the door window, locks the door, turns to Sam and Lila, folds his arms, smiles a particularly unfriendly Let's all talk about Mary.
ARBOGAST: Let's all talk about Mary.
SAM: Who are you, friend?
ARBOGAST: Milt Arbogast, Private Investigator. Where is she, Miss Crane?
LILA: I don't know.
ARBOGAST: Wouldn't have been able to tail you if you did.
SAM: What's your interest?
ARBOGAST: There is a moment's silence and then, unable to tolerate the sudden frightening happenings, Sam explodes.
SAM: Somebody better tell me what's going on and tell me fast! I can take so much and then.
ARBOGAST: ( Interrupting calmly ) Your girl friend stole forty thousand Sam looks at Arbogast in utter shock and in that state asks one of those seemingly ridiculous questions.
SAM: ( An almost amused smile ) Must've needed it.
ARBOGAST: ( An almost amused smile ) Must've needed it.
SAM: What are you talking about? What is this?
LILA: She was supposed to bank it, on Friday, for her boss. She didn't. And no one has seen her since.
ARBOGAST: ( Looking at Sam ) Someone has seen her. Someone always sees a girl with forty thousand ( To Sam ) She is your girl friend, isn't she?
LILA: Sam, they don't want to prosecute, they just want the money back. It was all in cash.
ARBOGAST: ( Correcting with Cassidy's word ) Sam, if she's here.
LILA: Sam, if she's here.
SAM: She isn't! A real look of anguish comes into Lila's face. And Arbogast studies it, then speaks.
ARBOGAST: You came up here on a hunch, Miss Crane? Nothing more? No phone call. from him, or from your sister herself?
LILA: ( wearily ) Not even a hunch. Just hope.
ARBOGAST: With a little checking, I could get to believe you.
LILA: ( anxiously ) I don't care if you do or. I want to see Mary. before she gets in any deeper.
SAM: Did you check in Phoenix. hospitals. maybe she had an accident. a hold-up.
ARBOGAST: She was seen leaving town in her car. Seen by her very victims, I might add.
SAM: ( after a moment ) I don't believe it. ( to Lila, slowly ) Do you?
LILA: ( a thoughtful pause ) Yes. I just. did. The moment they told me.
SAM: You might have doubted for say five minutes or so, Sister. Lila turns from Sam, a flush of guilt and regret in her face. Arbogast looks at her, quiet sympathetically.
ARBOGAST: We're always quickest to doubt people who have a record for being honest. I think she's here, Miss Crane. Where there's a boyfriend. She won't be back there among the nuts and bolts. but she'll be in this town. somewhere. I'll find He nods, takes down the closed-for-lunch sign, sails it to the counter, opens door, goes out into the street. After a quiet moment:
LILA: I just listened. and believed everything they told me. 'She stole the money.' 'We don't want to get her in trouble.' 'No don't bring the police in'.
SAM: It was her boss' idea not to report it to the police?
LILA: No. The man whose money she. he talked so loud and fast, and I. I should've called the police.
SAM: He must have had a darn good reason for wanting them kept out of it. All that cash.
LILA: I ought to call the police right Why not? Sam, is she hiding here? Are you two planning to go away with the money?
SAM: Why not? Sam, is she hiding here? Are you two planning to go away with the money?
LILA: Why not? Sam, is she hiding here? Are you two planning to go away with the money?
SAM: How could I go away? I'm in debt up to my. If she did steal that money. It's hard to believe she did because it's hard to see why she would. Unless she had some wild idea that it would help me. us.
LILA: She haven't even called you?
SAM: I didn't see her. and I didn't hear from her! Believe that!
LILA: I need to. I need to believe something. This is the first time I've ever come up against anything I couldn't. understand.
SAM: You've led a charmed life.
LILA: No. I just think. anything can be explained. But Mary, doing a thing like this. I don't know how to Maybe we can handle it together.
SAM: Maybe we can handle it together.
LILA: ( A rueful shrug ) I came flying up here expecting to get some explanation. for all I know, she may be trying to get in touch with me, at home. I'd better go home.
SAM: ( A thoughtful pause ) I think she'll contact me if she contacts anybody. Why don't you stay here. When she shows up. or calls. be here.
LILA: ( A long study, her suspicion of him evaporating ) You want me to stay here?
SAM: She'll need both of us.
LILA: ( considers, then: ) Where. can I stay?
SAM: ( brightly ) First rate hotel, fifty yards up the street. Come on. ( as he reaches for the closed-for-lunch sign ) After we check you in we'll go to the drugstore and get you a sandwich. Then we'll come back here. and He hangs the sign on the door, ushers Lila out, closes door behind him.
NORMAN: ( shoving sock in his pocket ) I always forget to put the sign on, but we do have vacancy. ( Cheerfully ) Twelve in fact. Twelve cabins, twelve ( pleasantly ) In the past two days I've been to so many motels, my eyes are bleary with neon. This is the first one that looked like it was hiding from the world at large.
ARBOGAST: ( pleasantly ) In the past two days I've been to so many motels, my eyes are bleary with neon. This is the first one that looked like it was hiding from the world at large.
NORMAN: I don't really forget the sign, it just doesn't seem. any use. This used to be the main highway. Want to register, please?
ARBOGAST: Sit down. I don't want to trouble you, just want to ask.
NORMAN: No trouble. Today's linen day. I change all the beds once a week, whether they've been used or not. dampness. I hate the smell of It's such a dank smell. Norman is holding the door open, so Arbogast walks in. Norman follows.
NORMAN: You out to buy a motel?
ARBOGAST: Oh. I thought. you said you'd been to so many in two days. What was it you wanted to ask?
NORMAN: Oh. I thought. you said you'd been to so many in two days. What was it you wanted to ask?
ARBOGAST: I'm looking for a missing person. My name's Arbogast, private Trying to trace a young girl who's been missing almost a week. From It's a private matter. family wants to forgive her. She isn't in trouble.
NORMAN: ( forcing a smile ) I didn't think the police went searching for people who weren't in I'm not the police.
ARBOGAST: I'm not the police.
NORMAN: He waits a moment, then opens closet, starts counting out sheets and pillow cases, keeps his back to Arbogast. Arbogast takes a photograph out of his pocket, talks as he crosses to Norman.
ARBOGAST: We have reason to believe she came this way. might have stopped in this area. Did she stop here?
NORMAN: No. No one has stopped here in Mind looking at the picture before committing yourself?
ARBOGAST: Mind looking at the picture before committing yourself?
NORMAN: Committing myself to what? You sure talk like a Policeman.
ARBOGAST: Look at the picture. Please. Norman glances, briefly, turns away, lifts sheets and pillow cases off the shelf holds them close, almost protectively.
NORMAN: No. At least I don't recall.
ARBOGAST: She might have used an alias. Mary Crane's the real name, but she might've registered.
NORMAN: ( interrupting ) I don't even bother with guests registering any more. I mean, little by little, you drop the formalities. ( more relaxed, because Arbogast is listening with a pleasant smile ) I shouldn't even bother to change the linen. I guess habits die hard. Which reminds me. He goes to the wall, flips a light switch.
NORMAN: The vacancy sign. Just in case. We had a couple the other night, said if the sign hasn't been on they'd have thought this was an old deserted mining town or something.
ARBOGAST: Now there's a couple even remarking about your sign, and see how easily you forgot them?
NORMAN: You thought no one has stopped here in weeks. Now, try to remember if this girl.
ARBOGAST: You thought no one has stopped here in weeks. Now, try to remember if this girl.
ARBOGAST: ( A pause, a study ) Maybe she even signed the register. because habits die hard. Let's check it, huh? Norman says nothing. Arbogast goes to the desk, pulls the registry book around, flips back a page or two. Norman simply stares at the man. Arbogast hums faintly, pleasantly, as he examines the pages. Then:
ARBOGAST: Yes sir! Marie Samuels. Interesting He takes a slip of paper out of his pocket, lays it beside the signature in the registry book, all the while nodding and smiling nicely, as if this discovery will make Norman as happy as it is making him.
ARBOGAST: Don't know where she got "Marie," but "Samuels" figures. Her boy friend's name is Sam. Was she in disguise? Or do you want to check the picture again?
NORMAN: I didn't lie to you. I just have trouble keeping track of. time. Arbogast has reached him, the picture extended. Norman looks dutifully at it.
NORMAN: It was raining and her hair didn't look like that. damped out, I guess.
ARBOGAST: Tell me all about her.
NORMAN: She arrived kind of late, wet and hungry and she was very tired and went right to bed and left early.
ARBOGAST: How early?
NORMAN: Very early. Dawn.
ARBOGAST: Of which morning?
NORMAN: The following morning. Sunday.
ARBOGAST: No one met her?
NORMAN: Or arrived with her.
ARBOGAST: Or arrived with her.
NORMAN: She didn't call anyone? Even locally?
ARBOGAST: She didn't call anyone? Even locally?
NORMAN: You didn't spend the whole night with her did you?
ARBOGAST: You didn't spend the whole night with her did you?
NORMAN: No! Of all.
ARBOGAST: How do you know she didn't make a She was tired. She said she had a long drive ahead of her, in the morning. Yes, now I'm remembering very clearly because I'm picturing. When you make a picture of the moment in your mind, you can remember every detail. She was sitting back there, no she was standing up, with some sandwich still in her hand, and she said she had to drive a long way.
NORMAN: She was tired. She said she had a long drive ahead of her, in the morning. Yes, now I'm remembering very clearly because I'm picturing. When you make a picture of the moment in your mind, you can remember every detail. She was sitting back there, no she was standing up, with some sandwich still in her hand, and she said she had to drive a long way.
ARBOGAST: Back where?
NORMAN: What do you mean?
ARBOGAST: You said she was sitting "back there," or standing rather.
NORMAN: Oh. My private parlor. She had an awful hunger. so I made her some supper. And then she went to bed and left in the morning. I didn't even see her leave.
ARBOGAST: How did she pay you?
NORMAN: Cash or check? For the cabin.
ARBOGAST: Cash or check? For the cabin.
NORMAN: And when she left, she never came Why should she? I'm sorry, I have work to do, Mr. if you don't mind.
ARBOGAST: And when she left, she never came Why should she? I'm sorry, I have work to do, Mr. if you don't mind.
NORMAN: Why should she? I'm sorry, I have work to do, Mr. if you don't mind.
ARBOGAST: I do mind. If it don't jell, it ain't This ain't jelling.
NORMAN: I don't know what you expect me to know about. people come and go.
ARBOGAST: She isn't still here, is she?
NORMAN: Not at all!
ARBOGAST: Suppose I wanted to search the cabins, all twelve. would I need a warrant?
NORMAN: ( as if pleasantly exasperated ) Look, if you won't believe me, go ahead. You can help me make beds if you like. ( laughs, shakes his head ) Come on. He starts out. Arbogast pauses, momentarily confused by the young man's openness.
NORMAN: Change your mind? Arbogast does not reply. Norman becomes apprehensive, starts to Arbogast, forcing himself to remain calm and cheerful.
NORMAN: I guess I've got one of those faces you can't help believing.
ARBOGAST: ( to Norman, but continuing to stare at the house ) Anyone at home?
NORMAN: I live there. Alone.
ARBOGAST: Someone is sitting in that window.
NORMAN: My mother. Arbogast turns, gazes seriously at him.
NORMAN: She's. ill. Confined to her room. It's practically living alone.
ARBOGAST: ( after a pause ) If this girl Mary Crane were here, you'd have no reason to hide her would you?
NORMAN: Of course not.
ARBOGAST: If she paid you well?
NORMAN: Now, look.!
ARBOGAST: Or if she had you say. gallantly protecting her. you wouldn't be fooled. you'd know she was just using you. Wouldn't you?
NORMAN: I'm not a fool! And I'm not capable of being fooled! Not even by women!
ARBOGAST: I didn't mean that as a slur on your manhood. I'm sorry.
NORMAN: ( disturbed now ) That's all right. maybe she could have fooled me. But. ( a rueful smile ) She didn't fool my mother.
ARBOGAST: Your mother met her? Can I talk to your mother?
NORMAN: No. I told you, she's confined.
ARBOGAST: Just for a moment. She might have picked up a hint you'd miss.
ARBOGAST: Sick old women are sharp. Come on, I won't disturb.
NORMAN: No! Just no! I have one of those breaking points like any other man, believe it or not, and I'm near it. There's just so much pushing I can take and I think.
ARBOGAST: All right! Might save me a lot of leg-work if I could just talk to your mother. But I'd need a warrant for that, won't
I?: Norman does not respond. Arbogast gets in his car, starts the motor. Norman looks up, studies the man's face, his own face showing apprehension. Arbogast backs the car around very slowly, his gaze divided between the old house and the lighted window of Cabin Two. As he turns the car out, his headlights light up the porch. Norman stands, watching him drive away.
ARBOGAST: ( into phone ) Miss Crane, please. ( listens ) She leave a number? ( listens ) ( hangs up, dials again, waits ) Lila there, Mr. Loomis? Arbogast. ( waits ) Lila? Look, this isn't much, but it might make you feel a little better. Mary was up here. Spent last Saturday night at Bates' Motel, out here on the old highway. ( listens ) Young fellow runs it, said Mary spent the night, left, period! ( listens ) I did question him, believe me. I think I got all there was to get. Just have to try to pick up the scent from here. ( listens ) Well. maybe that's because I don't feel entirely satisfied. He's got a sick old mother, confined type, and I think she saw Mary and talked to her. Shame, too. confined old women love to talk to strangers. ( listens ) I was, but I think I'll go back to the motel, first. ( listens ) No, you stay put, Lila. With Loomis. I should be back in an hour. ( listens ) All right. And Lila. You'll be happy to know what I think. I think our friend Sam Loomis didn't even know Mary was here. ( smiles ) See you in an hour. Or less. He hangs up, gets out of the phone booth.
ARBOGAST: He goes over to the door to the parlor and enters. He looks around the bird-ridden room. He stops short as he sees:
L.S. ARBOGAST: dashes up the stone steps to the House.
MEDIUM SHOT: CAMERA HOLDS as Arbogast goes up onto the porch. The house is dark within except, as we can now see, for a faint spill of light in the foyer, light which comes from the upstairs hall. Arbogast goes to the living room window, looks in, sees only darkness. Then he goes to the door, listens for along moment, hears nothing. Very slowly, almost painfully, he turns the knob of the door and pushes gently with his arm and shoulder. The door begins to open. He allows it to open just enough for him to slip through and into the foyer.
FADE OUT: FADE IN INT. BACK ROOM OF HARDWARE STORE - ( NIGHT ) Lila is sitting close by the phone, and looks as if she hasn't moved from it in the last hour. Sam is pacing, occasionally stopping at the window, glancing out, pacing again. The ash tray close to Lila is filled. There is a thick atmosphere of smoke, tension and weariness in the small, otherwise cozy room.
FADE IN: INT. BACK ROOM OF HARDWARE STORE - ( NIGHT ) Lila is sitting close by the phone, and looks as if she hasn't moved from it in the last hour. Sam is pacing, occasionally stopping at the window, glancing out, pacing again. The ash tray close to Lila is filled. There is a thick atmosphere of smoke, tension and weariness in the small, otherwise cozy room.
SAM: ( at window, quietly ) Sometimes Saturday night has a lonely sound. Ever notice, Lila?
LILA: ( unable to keep up small talk ) Sam. He said an hour. Or less.
SAM: It's been three.
LILA: Are we just going to go on sitting He'll be back. Let's sit still and hang on, okay?
SAM: ( suddenly cheerful ) He'll be back. Let's sit still and hang on, okay?
LILA: You have an awfully nice habit, Sam.
SAM: Hundreds! Which one is your pet?
LILA: Whenever I start contemplating the panic button, your back straightens up and your eyes get that God-looks- out-for-everybody look and. I feel I feel better when you feel better.
SAM: I feel better when you feel better.
LILA: ( a pause - then she rises ) Where's the old highway?
SAM: You want to run out there, bust in on Arbogast and the sick old lady, shake her up and maybe spoil everything Arbogast's been building for the last three hours.
LILA: That wouldn't be a wise thing to do.
SAM: That wouldn't be a wise thing to do.
LILA: Patience doesn't run in our family. Sam, I'm going out there!
SAM: Arbogast said.
LILA: An hour! Or less! Sam stares at her, frowns in concern over her very real anxiety, goes to the phone, dials operator.
SAM: ( into phone ) Got the number of the motel out on the old highway? Bates, I think. ( waits )
LILA: Sam! Why call when we can go?
SAM: And maybe pass Arbogast on the road? He presses down the receiver, releases it, dials Bates' Motel. The faint other-end ringing tones can be heard, repeatedly, annoyingly. He waits.
SAM: ( to Lila ) Probably on his way back right now.
LILA: Sam, I'm going.
SAM: ( hangs up and picks up his jacket ) You'll never find it. He starts for the door. Lila follows after him into the store.
SAM: Stay here.
LILA: Why can't I go out there with you?
SAM: ( looks at her ) I don't know. ( he collects himself ) One of us has to be here in case Arbogast's on the way.
LILA: ( nervously ) Just wait here?
SAM: ( a warm smile ) Contemplate your. panic button. He hurries down to the street door and out. CAMERA HOLDS on Lila as she stares after Sam. As she stands alone in the darkened store, all the hardware seems to take on sinister Among some bathroom fittings a nozzle from a shower falls onto the floor.
MEDIUM SHOT: Lila turns and picks if from the floor and puts it back in its place. She turns and again looks to the deserted street with a touch of anxiety. She gives a slight unconscious EXT. THE SWAMP - ( NIGHT ) Tall and lonely still against the moonlight, the figure of Norman, silhouetted. He doesn't move, merely stands there at the edge of the swamp, staring down at the now calm and quiet face of it.
SAM: CUT TO: EXT. THE SWAMP The silhouette of Norman. He is still. Over shot, very dimly, comes the SOUND OF SAM'S VOICE, calling again for Arbogast. Norman turns slowly until, in silhouette, we see his profile, his chin lowered furtively as he looks over his shoulder in the direction of the house. There is silence for a moment, and then again the SOUND of Sam POUNDING at the door.
MEDIUM SHOT: From her viewpoint we see Sam alighting from his truck and coming toward the door of the store. He enters. He and Lila exchange quiet glances.
SAM: He didn't come back here?
LILA: ( worriedly ) No Arbogast. No Bates. And only the old lady at home. ( frowning ) A sick old lady unable to answer the door. or unwilling.
SAM: No Arbogast. No Bates. And only the old lady at home. A sick old lady unable to answer the door. or unwilling.
LILA: Where could he have gone?
SAM: Maybe he got some definite lead. Maybe he went right on.
LILA: Without calling me?
SAM: In a hurry.
LILA: Sam, he called me when he had nothing definite, nothing but a dissatisfied feeling. Don't you think he'd have called if he had anything.
SAM: ( interrupting ) Yes. I think he would have. Lila goes quiet. Sam starts toward the back room, pauses at the doorway, turns. Lila has remained by the door, looking out at the street. She feels his pause, turns, and for a moment they share at each other across the darkened room.
SAM: Let's go see Al Chambers.
LILA: Who's he?
SAM: He's the Deputy Sheriff around here. As he starts forward.
SAM: Our Deputy sleeps.
LILA: Nothing. Just. all the lights out. must be asleep.
SAM: Nothing. Just. all the lights out. must be asleep.
LILA: ( a small exasperation ) Does that mean we can't.
SAM: No. I'm just procrastinating. People hate when the doorbell rings in the middle of the night. Come on. He gets out of cab, goes around to help Lila. She is already out. CAMERA FOLLOWS them up the small path to the front door. Sam presses the bell button. Both he and Lila are almost knocked over by the shocking, clanging, ear-splitting BLAST OF THE BELL within the house, a ring which sounds more like a fire alarm than a doorbell. He tries to smile, fails. Lila doesn't even try. The downstairs hall light goes on and a moment later the door is unhesitatingly opened by MRS. CHAMBERS, a small, lively stick of a woman wrapped in a thick flannel robe and a corona of Sorry, Mrs. Chambers. I hate bothering You didn't! It's tinkerbell. Al wants to be sure he'll hear it if anyone rings it in the middle of the Well come on in, at least! As she opens the door wide,
MRS. CHAMBERS: Sorry, Mrs. Chambers. I hate bothering You didn't! It's tinkerbell. Al wants to be sure he'll hear it if anyone rings it in the middle of the Well come on in, at least! As she opens the door wide,
SAM: Sorry, Mrs. Chambers. I hate bothering You didn't! It's tinkerbell. Al wants to be sure he'll hear it if anyone rings it in the middle of the Well come on in, at least! As she opens the door wide,
MRS. CHAMBERS: You didn't! It's tinkerbell. Al wants to be sure he'll hear it if anyone rings it in the middle of the Well come on in, at least! As she opens the door wide,
MRS. CHAMBERS: ( a tiny wait, a smile as Sam and Lila enter ) Al Chambers! Sam is about to close the door behind him. Mrs. Chambers motions for him not to, scurries across the hall, leans outside, presses the doorbell. The RING within the house is even more shattering. She closes the door, starts to the stairway, pauses as the SOUNDS of movement above COME OVER
MRS. CHAMBERS: SHERIFF CHAMBERS comes down the stairs, in a bathrobe which matches his wife's. He is a tall, narrow man with a face originally destined for Mount Rushmore. He nods at Sam, looks at him with wide-awake eyes and a no-nonsense concern.
SAM: We have a problem.
MRS. CHAMBERS: ( to Lila ) Let's go out back and have some coca while the men are talking.
LILA: No, thank you. It's my problem, too.
SAM: I don't know where to start. Except at the beginning.
LILA: ( to Sheriff ) This is Lila Crane, from Phoenix. She's been here for a few days, looking for her sister. There's a private detective helping. and, well, we got a call tonight, from this detective, saying he'd traced Mary is Lila's sister?
SAM: ( to Sheriff ) This is Lila Crane, from Phoenix. She's been here for a few days, looking for her sister. There's a private detective helping. and, well, we got a call tonight, from this detective, saying he'd traced Mary is Lila's sister?
MRS. CHAMBERS: Mary is Lila's sister?
SAM: Yes. He traced her to that motel, out on the old highway.
MRS. CHAMBERS: ( to the Sheriff ) Bates' Motel. ( to Lila ) He has a mind like a mechanical brain and the more information you feed it. Go on, Sam.
SAM: He traced her there and called us to say he was going to question Mrs. Norman took a wife?
MRS. CHAMBERS: ( a pleasant shock ) Norman took a wife?
SAM: No. An old woman, his mother. That was early this evening. And we haven't seen or heard from him since. I went out to the motel, just got back. No one was in the office, and.
LILA: ( interrupting, anxiously ) Will you help us? I think something's wrong out there!
SHERIFF: ( after a considerate pause ) Now. Your sister is missing how long?
LILA: She left Phoenix a week ago yesterday. And no trace until.
SHERIFF: How'd you and this detective come to trace her to Fairvale?
SAM: They thought she'd be coming to me.
SHERIFF: Left Phoenix under her own steam?
LILA: ( a pause ) She ain't missing so much as she's run away.
SHERIFF: ( a pause ) She ain't missing so much as she's run away.
SAM: From what?
SHERIFF: From what?
LILA: ( a look at sam, then: ) She stole some money.
SHERIFF: A lot?
LILA: Forty thousand dollars.
SHERIFF: And the police haven't been able Everyone concerned thought. if they could get her to give back the money. they could avoid involving her with the police.
SAM: ( interrupting ) Everyone concerned thought. if they could get her to give back the money. they could avoid involving her with the police.
SHERIFF: Explains the private detective. He traced her to the Bates place. What'd he exactly say when he called you?
LILA: Mary had been there, one night, and had left.
SHERIFF: With the forty thousand dollars?
LILA: He didn't mention the money. What he said on the phone isn't important, is it? He was supposed to come back after he spoke to the mother, and he didn't! That's what I want you to do something about!
SHERIFF: Like what?
LILA: Go out there! Find somebody, ask some questions! I'm sorry if I seem over-anxious to you. I keep thinking. something's wrong. I have to know what!
SHERIFF: I think something's wrong, too, Miss. But not the same thing. I think your private detective is what's wrong. I think he got himself a hot lead as to where your sister was going. probably from Norman Bates. and called you to keep you still while he took off after her and the money.
LILA: He said he was dissatisfied. and was going back.
MRS. CHAMBERS: ( to Sheriff ) Why don't you call Norman and let him say just what happened, if he give the man a hot lead and he did just scooted off. it'll make the girl feel better, Albert.
SHERIFF: At this hour?
SAM: He was out when I was there. If he's back he probably isn't even in bed He wasn't out when you were there. He just wasn't answering the door in the dead of night. like some people do. This fellow lives like a hermit.
SHERIFF: He wasn't out when you were there. He just wasn't answering the door in the dead of night. like some people do. This fellow lives like a hermit.
MRS. CHAMBERS: Recluse. Kinder word.
SHERIFF: ( to Sam ) You must remember that bad business out there. About ten years ago.
SAM: I've only been here five. Right now it feels like ten, but.
LILA: All right! Then call! At least, call! Mrs. Chambers goes to phone, dials operator.
MRS. CHAMBERS: ( into phone ) Florrie, the Sheriff wants you to connect him with the Bates Motel. She hands the receiver to the Sheriff. He takes it, reluctantly, listens to the dim sound of RINGING on the other end. After a moment:
SHERIFF: ( into phone ) Norman? Sheriff Chambers. ( listens ) Been just fine, thanks. Listen, we got some worries here. Did you have a man stop out there tonight. ( listens ) Well, this one wouldn't be a customer, anyway. A private detective, name ( into phone ) ( listens ) And after he left? ( listens ) No, it's okay, Norman. How's it been going out there? ( listens ) Well, I think you oughta unload that place and open up closer in to the action, a smaller place, you know. ( into phone ) Sorry I got you up, boy. Go back to sleep. Yeah, be glad to. ( hangs up, turns to Mrs. Chambers ) Said to give you his regards.
MRS. CHAMBERS: ( into phone ) ( listens ) And after he left? ( listens ) No, it's okay, Norman. How's it been going out there? ( listens ) Well, I think you oughta unload that place and open up closer in to the action, a smaller place, you know. ( into phone ) Sorry I got you up, boy. Go back to sleep. Yeah, be glad to. ( hangs up, turns to Mrs. Chambers ) Said to give you his regards.
SHERIFF: ( into phone ) ( listens ) And after he left? ( listens ) No, it's okay, Norman. How's it been going out there? ( listens ) Well, I think you oughta unload that place and open up closer in to the action, a smaller place, you know. ( into phone ) Sorry I got you up, boy. Go back to sleep. Yeah, be glad to. ( hangs up, turns to Mrs. Chambers ) Said to give you his regards.
LILA: ( into phone ) Sorry I got you up, boy. Go back to sleep. Yeah, be glad to. ( hangs up, turns to Mrs. Chambers ) Said to give you his regards.
SHERIFF: ( into phone ) Sorry I got you up, boy. Go back to sleep. Yeah, be glad to. ( hangs up, turns to Mrs. Chambers ) Said to give you his regards.
SAM: ( faint irony ) Was that all?
SHERIFF: This detective was out there and Norman told him about the girl and the detective thanked him and went And he didn't go back? Didn't see the mother? The Sheriff looks long at Lila, shakes his head You should've called in the police the second you found your sister has skipped. You go starting private investigations, using people you don't even know.
LILA: And he didn't go back? Didn't see the mother? The Sheriff looks long at Lila, shakes his head You should've called in the police the second you found your sister has skipped. You go starting private investigations, using people you don't even know.
SHERIFF: You should've called in the police the second you found your sister has skipped. You go starting private investigations, using people you don't even know.
LILA: What difference does that.
SHERIFF: Your Detective told you a nakedfaced He told you he wasn't coming right back cause he wanted to question Norman Bates' mother, right?
MRS. CHAMBERS: He told you he wasn't coming right back cause he wanted to question Norman Bates' mother, right?
SHERIFF: He told you he wasn't coming right back cause he wanted to question Norman Bates' mother, right?
LILA: ( a pause, then calmly ) Norman Bates' mother has been dead and buried in Greenlawn Cemetery for the last ten years! There is a long silence. Sam and Lila stare at the Sheriff.
SHERIFF: ( a pause, then calmly ) Norman Bates' mother has been dead and buried in Greenlawn Cemetery for the last ten years! There is a long silence. Sam and Lila stare at the Sheriff.
MRS. CHAMBERS: I helped Norman pick out the dress she was buried in. Periwinkle blue.
SHERIFF: It ain't only local history, Sam, it's the only murder-and-suicide case in Fairvale ledgers! Mrs. Bates poisoned this guy she was. involved with, when she found out he was married, then took a helping of the same stuff herself. Strychnine. Ugly way to die.
MRS. CHAMBERS: Norman found them dead together. In You mean that old woman I saw sittin' in the window wasn't Norman Bates' Maybe you saw Mary!
SAM: You mean that old woman I saw sittin' in the window wasn't Norman Bates' Maybe you saw Mary!
MRS. CHAMBERS: ( hopefully, happily ) Maybe you saw Mary!
SAM: I'd know the difference between Mary and an old woman.
SHERIFF: Now wait a minute, Sam. You sure you saw an old woman?
SAM: Yes! In the house behind the motel. I pounded and called but she. just ignored me.
SHERIFF: And you want to tell me you saw Norman Bates' mother.
LILA: It must've been. Arbogast said so, too. and he said the young man wouldn't let him see her because she was ill! The Sheriff stares at both of them, and when he finally speaks there is an almost inaudible tone or irony in his voice.
SHERIFF: Well, if the woman up there is Mrs. Bates. who's that woman buried out at Greenlawn Cemetery?
MOTHER'S VOICE: I am sorry, boy, but you do manage to look ludicrous when you give me Please, mother.
NORMAN'S VOICE: Please, mother.
MOTHER'S VOICE: ( Sharp, laughter all gone ) No! I will not hide in the fruit ( A shrill laugh ) Think I'm fruity, huh? ( Hard, cold again ) I'm staying right here! This is my room and no one will drag me out of it. least of all my big bold son!
NORMAN'S VOICE: ( Rising now, anxiously ) They'll come now, Mother. He came after the girl and now someone will come after him! How long do you think you can go on. Mother, please, just for a few days, just so they won't find you!
MOTHER'S VOICE: ( Mimicking ) Just for a few days. ( Furious ) In that dank fruit cellar? No! You hid me there once, boy, and you won't do it again! Not ever again! Now get out! ( A pause, quiet ) I told you to get out, boy! ( A longer pause ) Norman! What do you think you're going to do? Don't you touch me! Don't! Norman! ( A pause, then cajolingly ) All right, son, put me down and I'll go. I'll go on my own two feet. I can go on my own two feet, can't I? During all this the CAMERA has been slowly creeping up the stairs. It does not stop at the top however, but continues on the same high angle that we had in Scene 57. She starts to laugh, a terrible sound like an obscene melody.
NORMAN'S VOICE: I'll carry you, mother. Norman comes out of the room, his mother held in his arms, her head leaning against his shoulder. He carries her down the stairs, along the lower landing to the cellar stairs, and then down those stairs to the basement.
SAM: We thought, if you didn't mind, we'd go out to the motel with you.
MRS. CHAMBERS: He's already been.
SHERIFF: Went out before service.
MRS. CHAMBERS: Have you two had breakfast?
SAM: ( To Sheriff, not a question ) You didn't find anything.
SHERIFF: Nothing. Here, let's clear the path. He moves away and the others follow. CAMERA PANS them to the Did he say anything about my sister?
LILA: ( Interrupting ) Did he say anything about my sister?
SHERIFF: Just what he told your detective. She used a fake name, saw the register myself. Saw the whole place, as a matter of fact. That boy is alone there.
SAM: No mother.
SHERIFF: You must've seen an illusion, Sam. Now, I know you're not the seeing- illusion type. But no woman was illusion there and I don't believe in ghosts, so there it is!
LILA: I still feel.
SHERIFF: Can see you do. Sorry I couldn't make you feel better. You want to come to my office this afternoon and report a missing person. And the theft, is what you want to do! Sooner you drop this thing in the lap of the law, that's the sooner you'll stand a chance of your sister bein' picked up. How about that?
LILA: I don't know.
MRS. CHAMBERS: It's Sunday. Come over and do the reporting at the house, 'round dinner time. Make it nicer. You too, Sam. She smiles brightly, as if having invited them over to discuss this year's charity fandango, takes the Sheriff's arm, starts away. The Sheriff nods as he goes. Sam and Lila are alone now, at the curb, before the deserted chapel. For a long moment they just stand there, their faces as gray and overcast as the sky.
SAM: Maybe I am the seeing-illusions type.
LILA: You're not. Sam takes her arm, starts walking her up the street toward the spot where his pick-up truck is parked. CAMERA FOLLOWS them.
SAM: Want me to drop you at the hotel? Or you want to come over to the store? Lila does not answer. They reach the truck. Lila looks directly at Sam as he helps her into the cab.
LILA: I won't feel satisfied unless I got out there, Sam.
SAM: Neither will I. He slams the door, hurries around truck, gets into driver's seat, starts motor. As the truck drives off,
LILA: I wonder if we'll ever see Mary again.
SAM: Of course we will.
LILA: Sam looks as if he'd like to say something humorous, something to cheer her. He cannot. He remains silent.
LILA: We lived together all our lives. When we woke up one morning and found ourselves orphans, Mary quit college and got a job, so I could go to college.
SAM: Where'd you go to college?
LILA: I didn't. I got a job, too. I wonder if that hurt her, my not letting her sacrifice for me? Some people are so willing to suffer for you that they suffer more if you don't let them.
SAM: ( Almost to himself ) She was willing to lick the stamps. Lila looks quizzically at him, is too concerned to pursue I wonder so many things about her now. Why she never told me about you. Funny, when you think there's an answer to everything, you think you know all the answers.
LILA: I wonder so many things about her now. Why she never told me about you. Funny, when you think there's an answer to everything, you think you know all the answers.
SAM: We were going to get married. Are going to get married!
LILA: Do you know how I found out about you? I found one of your letters. it was a nice letter, Sam.
SAM: This is the old highway.
LILA: I suppose. when you were able to marry her she'd have presented you, all shiny and proper. she always tried to be proper.
SAM: Watch your tenses.
LILA: She always tries to be proper. Sam slows the truck to a stop, sighs, starts to light up a cigarette. Lila looks questioningly and impatiently at him.
SAM: She always tries to be proper. Sam slows the truck to a stop, sighs, starts to light up a cigarette. Lila looks questioningly and impatiently at him.
LILA: You going to wait here for me?
SAM: I'm going with you. But we'd better decide what we're going to say and do when we walk in.
LILA: We're going to register. As man and wife. And get shown to a cabin. and then search every inch of that place, inside and. outside.
SAM: You won't believe it. But this will be the first time I've ever pulled one of those man- and-wife-renting-cabin capers!
LILA: ( A tiny smile, first in hours ) I believe it. As truck starts to drive on,
FRESH ANGLE: Close on Sam and Lila as they meet on the porch side of the truck. The motel office and the house beyond can be seen in b.g. of shot. Sam and Lila merely stare for a moment, then turn and gaze up at the house. There is no figure in the window and the shade is drawn. Same goes to the office door, peers in, knocks, opens door, enters. Lila remains on the driveway, beside the truck.
SAM: ( Unconsciously whispering ) I wonder where Norman Bates does his Someone was at that window. I saw the curtain move. Sam takes Lila's arm.
LILA: Someone was at that window. I saw the curtain move. Sam takes Lila's arm.
SAM: Come on. He starts with her toward the path which leads to the old house. CAMERA PANS with them, and as they turn around the office corner, they see Norman coming down the path toward them. They pause and Norman pauses. He does not smile, nor speak. His usual grin and soft friendliness are gone; containment and impassivity lie in their place.
SAM: ( Cheerfully ) Just coming up to ring for you.
NORMAN: ( Coming forward ) I suppose you want a cabin.
SAM: We'd hoped to make it straight to San Francisco, but we don't like the look of that sky. Looks like a bad day coming. doesn't it. Norman walks past Sam, giving him the sort of quick, disapproving glance one gives a man who is obviously lying, goes onto the porch and into the office. Sam and Lila follow INT. MOTEL OFFICE - ( DAY ) Norman crosses to the desk, goes behind it, takes the key to cabin number twelve off the keyboard. Sam and Lila have entered and are almost to the desk-counter by this time.
NORMAN: I'll take you to.
SAM: Better sign in first, hasn't we? Sam eyes scan the counter, looking for a registration book.
NORMAN: It isn't necessary.
SAM: ( Interrupting with a friendly cheerfulness ) Uh, uh! My boss is paying for this trip. ninety percent business. and he wants practically notarized receipts. I better sign in and get a Norman stares at Sam, as if he'd like to yell at him, call him "liar." Instead he reaches under the desk counter, brings out the registration book. Lila moves closer, studies the book as Sam signs in. Sam signs "Joe and Mrs. Johnson." The signature and city of "Marie Samuels" and after it, the notation "Cabin One," can be clearly seen three registrations above Sam's. When Sam has finished he closes book, hands it back to Norman. Norman does not take it, starts out from behind counter.
NORMAN: I'll get your bags.
SAM: Haven't any.
NORMAN: ( after a stare ) I'll show you the cabin. As he starts for the door, Sam laughs. Norman stops, turns, looks at him.
SAM: First time I've seen it happen. Check in any place in this country without bags, and you have to pay in Sam smiles as if at a funny remark, takes a bill out of his Ten dollars. Norman returns to Sam, takes the extended bill, is about to start out again.
NORMAN: Ten dollars. Norman returns to Sam, takes the extended bill, is about to start out again.
SAM: That receipt.? Norman goes reluctantly behind counter, lays down the key to cabin twelve, takes a receipt book out of the drawer under counter, starts to write. Lila steps up to the desk, picks up the key, quickly, starts out.
LILA: I'll start ahead. Norman looks up, gazes her as she goes out door.
SAM: ( To Norman, who is following ) Don't bother yourself. we'll find He goes on down the porch, doesn't even glance at cabin one, walks quickly and catches up to Lila just as she reaches cabin twelve. CAMERA REMAINS with Norman, who is standing by the office door, looking after Sam and Lila, his face alert and no longer impassive. He waits a moment, after they have closed their cabin door, then crosses to the pickup truck. CAMERA MOVES with him. He studies the truck, then leans in through the driver's window, twists the registration card around, reads it. It gives the correct name and address of Sam Loomis. Norman comes back out of the window, glances once more toward cabin twelve, then at the old house. His suspicions are confirmed, and now there is the relaxation of relief in his face. He takes on a purposeful air, turns, strides up the path, up onto the porch of the house, opens the door, goes INT. CABIN TWELVE - ( DAY ) Lila is at the cabin's rear window, looking out, straining for a glimpse of the old house, which cannot be seen from the window of this cabin. She turns, frustrated, anxious. Sam is standing at the foot of the bed, staring at the smooth coverlet, his brow creased in a sadness.
LILA: We should have asked for Cabin One. The one Mary was in.
SAM: I'm glad we didn't. He pulls his eyes from the bed, crosses to the desk, sits wearily, lights a cigarette. Lila watches him for a moment, feels a real compassion, goes to the bed, sits on its edge, turns again and looks at Sam's back.
LILA: We have to go into that cabin and search it, Sam. no matter what we're afraid of finding and no matter how much it may hurt.
SAM: I know. Do you think if something happened, it happened there?
LILA: ( A pause, then: ) Sam, if you owned a useless business like this motel. one you probably couldn't even sell. what would you need to get away, to start a new business, somewhere else? ( As Sam studies her ) Forty thousand dollars?
SAM: How could we prove. Well, if he opens a new motel on the new highway. say, a year from now.
LILA: There must be some proof that exists right now! Something that proves he got that money away from Mary. Some way!
SAM: What makes you sound so certain?
LILA: Arbogast! Sam, he liked me. or felt sorry for me. and he was starting to feel the same about you. I heard it when he called. in his voice, a caring. He wouldn't have gone anywhere or done anything without telling us. Unless he was stopped. And he was stopped, so he must have found out something! Sam considers a moment, nods agreement, rises.
SAM: We'll start with Cabin One. He goes to the door, opens it slightly, looks out, then, back to Lila:
SAM: If he sees us. we're just taking the air. Lila goes to the door. He holds it open and she goes out.
SAM: He waits, there is no response. He goes in and in a moment comes back out, closes the door, goes to Lila. She has already opened the door of Cabin One and has started to enter.
SAM: Hospital clean.
LILA: Hospital clean.
SAM: The bathroom. Look at how clean it is. The one in our cabin is clean. but this is clean! Sam goes in, glances around, nods. Lila goes through the medicine cabinet, finds nothing but a glass and two tiny tabs of soap. Sam leans against the door-jamb, looks at the tub, the shower pipe above it. He continues to stare, more interested suddenly, as if bothered by some off-key evidence he can't put his finger on. Then he looks at the shower curtain rod. And realizes there is no shower curtain. He frowns, is about to say something when Lila, who has been momentarily out of shot, interrupts. Sam turns, CAMERA TURNS, and we see Lila is standing above the toilet bowl, a tiny piece of wet paper stuck to the tip of her right index finger.
LILA: The bathroom. Look at how clean it is. The one in our cabin is clean. but this is clean! Sam goes in, glances around, nods. Lila goes through the medicine cabinet, finds nothing but a glass and two tiny tabs of soap. Sam leans against the door-jamb, looks at the tub, the shower pipe above it. He continues to stare, more interested suddenly, as if bothered by some off-key evidence he can't put his finger on. Then he looks at the shower curtain rod. And realizes there is no shower curtain. He frowns, is about to say something when Lila, who has been momentarily out of shot, interrupts. Sam turns, CAMERA TURNS, and we see Lila is standing above the toilet bowl, a tiny piece of wet paper stuck to the tip of her right index finger.
SAM: What is it?
LILA: It didn't get washed down. It's figuring. the kind you tear up and get rid of. Some figure has been added to or subtracted from. forty thousand. Sam lifts the piece of paper off her finger, studies it, takes out his wallet, presses the wet scrap to his driver's license shield, puts it back in the wallet and puts the wallet That's proof Mary was here! It would be too wild a coincidence for somebody else to.
LILA: That's proof Mary was here! It would be too wild a coincidence for somebody else to.
SAM: ( Reminding ) Bates never denied Mary was here.
LILA: ( Reminded ) ( A thought ) But maybe this proves that Bates found out about the money.
SAM: Do we simply ask him where he's hidden Sam, that old woman, whoever she is. I think she told Arbogast something! And I want her to tell us the same She starts out of the bathroom. Sam takes hold of her arm, stops her.
LILA: Sam, that old woman, whoever she is. I think she told Arbogast something! And I want her to tell us the same She starts out of the bathroom. Sam takes hold of her arm, stops her.
SAM: You can't go up there.
LILA: Why not?
SAM: CAMERA STARTS TO PAN AWAY from them, moves slowly over the room, very slowly.
SAM: Wait a minute. If you get anything out of the mother. Can you find your way back to town? If you do get anything, don't stop to tell me. Lila nods quickly, hurries to the door. Sam gets to it first, opens it a slight crack, looks out, then opens it wide enough for Lila and Himself to pass through.
NORMAN: Looking for me?
SAM: ( Recovering ) Yes, matter of fact. ( The friendly grin ) The wife's taking a nap and. I can never keep quiet enough for her. so I thought I'd look you up and. Satisfied with your cabin?
NORMAN: Satisfied with your cabin?
SAM: Sam starts into the office. Just before going in, he glances down the long porch, sees Lila standing outside the door of cabin twelve, waves her a tiny "all clear" signal.
LILA: CAMERA ANGLES to include Lila and her point of view. She watches Sam disappear into the office, waits until she hears the door close, then looks about for another way to reach the house. She sees the small alley at the end of this L of cabins, starts toward it.
SAM: ( Cheerfully, as if after a self-conscious pause ) I've been doing all the talking so far, haven't I?
NORMAN: I always thought it was the people who are alone so much who do all the talking when they get the chance. Yet there you are, doing all the You are alone here, aren't you? It would drive me crazy.
SAM: I always thought it was the people who are alone so much who do all the talking when they get the chance. Yet there you are, doing all the You are alone here, aren't you? It would drive me crazy.
NORMAN: That would be a rather extreme reaction, wouldn't it?
SAM: ( Lightly ) Just an expression. ( More seriously ) What I meant was. I'd do just about anything. to get away. Wouldn't INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY AND STAIRS OF OLD HOUSE - ( DAY ) Lila is halfway up the stairs. As she climbs she is startled by the creaks and groans of the old wood of the steps. She steps more carefully. CAMERA remains at foot of stair, TILTING UP as Lila climbs. She pauses at the head of the stair. The door on her right, which opens into the mother's room, is closed. To her left is another door, half-open. Directly before her is a third door, closed. She holds a long moment, trying to picture in her mind which room would look out on the front of the house, decides, chooses the correct door, the one on her right. She goes to it, knocks lightly.
SAM: I'm not saying you shouldn't be contented here, I'm just doubting that you are. I think if you saw a chance to get out from under. you'd unload this place.
NORMAN: ( Angrily ) This place! This isn't 'a place.' It's my only world. I grew up in that house back there. I was a happy child. My mother and I. we were more than happy.
SAM: And now that your mother's dead? Norman snaps a sharp, fast, ugly look at him.
NORMAN: My mother is not dead!
SAM: ( Softly ) I didn't think so.
SAM: ( Pressing ) You look frightened. Have I been saying something frightening?
NORMAN: I don't know what you've been saying.
SAM: I've been talking about your mother. about your motel. How are you going to do it?
NORMAN: Do what?
SAM: Buy a new one! In a new town! Where you won't have to hide your Shut up!
NORMAN: Shut up!
SAM: Where will you get the money to do that, Bates. or do you already have it. socked away. a lot of Leave me alone!
NORMAN: Leave me alone!
SAM: .Forty thousand dollars!
NORMAN: Leave me alone! He is close to panic now. He turns, swiftly, dashes back into his private parlor. Sam goes quickly around the counter, INT. NORMAN'S PRIVATE PARLOR - ( DAY ) Norman hears Sam following, wants to run, to never be reached by this man. He crosses the small room, drawn to the rear window, as if he might fly through it. Sam enters, pauses. Norman turns, back against the window, as unable to fly away as are the many still, stuffed birds. Sam registers a brief flicker of reaction when he sees the birds, but continues to gaze at Norman, hard.
SAM: I bet your mother knows where the money is. And what you did to get it. And I think she'll tell us. Something self-assured and confident in Sam's tone gives Norman a new, more terrified alarm. He turns his head, glances out the window at the old house. He looks back at Sam and there is terror in his voice.
NORMAN: Where's that girl? The girl you came with! Where is she? Sam does not respond, smiles a half-smile, turns to examine a stuffed owl. Norman looks back at the house.
NORMAN: ( A horrible groan ) Oh, God!
LILA: Mrs. Bates.? Lila goes into the room.
NORMAN: His face is contorted. He wears a wild wig, a mockery of a woman's hair. He is dressed in a high-neck dress which is similar to that worn by the corpse of his mother. His hand is raised high, poised to strike at Lila. There is a long breadknife in it.
LILA: Close on her face. She is dumb-struck. Her eyes are screaming.
MRS. BATES: A close of her face, She appears to be watching and enjoying the fight. Over the shot, the SOUNDS of the struggle, the screams of Norman.
TELEVISION MAN: ( Indicating the front door he has just come in through ) You think they'll take him out that ( Looking at waiting crowd, shrugging ) Probably have to. ( A rueful smile ) Besides, the taxpayers hate it when something gets slipped out the back door on them! Over this exchange, the buzz of other voices, the movement of men. CAMERA MOVES ON, down the corridor, gets to the door of the office of the Chief of Police just as a young fellow with a carton box filled with paper containers of sent-out- for coffee reaches this door. CAMERA HOLDS as the COFFEE BOY pauses a moment, then goes into the room.
POLICEMAN: ( Looking at waiting crowd, shrugging ) Probably have to. ( A rueful smile ) Besides, the taxpayers hate it when something gets slipped out the back door on them! Over this exchange, the buzz of other voices, the movement of men. CAMERA MOVES ON, down the corridor, gets to the door of the office of the Chief of Police just as a young fellow with a carton box filled with paper containers of sent-out- for coffee reaches this door. CAMERA HOLDS as the COFFEE BOY pauses a moment, then goes into the room.
SAM: ( quietly ) It's regular. Okay?
LILA: ( ruefully ) I could stand something regular. Sam smiles encouragingly, hands her the coffee. Sheriff Chambers ENTERS SHOT, gives Sam a container of coffee he has brought for him. Sam takes it, nods a thank you. For a moment no one speaks. Lila looks badly shaken, Sam disheveled, but contained.
CHAMBERS: You two can go on home if you like. Making that statement was enough for one night.
SAM: ( to Lila ) Want to?
LILA: No. I'm all right. I'll feel better when all this is explained. if it can be. Sam looks a question at Sheriff Chambers. Chambers shrugs If anybody gets any answers, it'll be the fellow talking to him now. the Psychiatrist. Even I couldn't reach Norman. and he knows me. You warm enough, Miss? Lila is about to answer, when she sees someone come into the room and rises anxiously. Sam and Sheriff Chambers turn, follow her gaze.
CHAMBERS: If anybody gets any answers, it'll be the fellow talking to him now. the Psychiatrist. Even I couldn't reach Norman. and he knows me. You warm enough, Miss? Lila is about to answer, when she sees someone come into the room and rises anxiously. Sam and Sheriff Chambers turn, follow her gaze.
DISTRICT ATTORNEY: Did he talk to you?
SIMON: No. I got the whole story. but not from Norman. I got it from. his Everyone gazes at him, mystified. He speaks as he removes lid from coffee container.
SIMON: Norman Bates no longer exists. He only half-existed to begin with. now, the other half has taken over. Probably for all time.
LILA: ( With difficulty ) Did he kill my sister?
SIMON: Yes. and no.
DISTRICT ATTORNEY: Look, if you're trying to lay a lot of psychiatric groundwork for some sort of plea this fellow would like to cop.
SIMON: A psychiatrist doesn't lay the groundwork .. he merely tries to explain it.
LILA: But my sister is.
SIMON: Yes. I'm sorry. The Private Investigator, too. If you drag that swamp somewhere in the vicinity of the motel. Have you any unsolved missing persons cases on your books?
SIMON: Young girls?
SIMON: ( interrupting ) As I said, the mother. ( Pauses, goes on afresh ) To understand it, as I understood it hearing it from the mother. That is, from the mother-half of Norman's mind, you have to go back ten years. to the time when Norman murdered his mother and her lover. ( A pause, then as no one interrupts ) He was already dangerously disturbed, had been ever since his father died. His mother was a clinging, demanding woman. and for years the two of them lived as if there was no one else in the world. Then she met a man and it seemed to Norman she "threw him over" for this man. That pushed him over the thin line. and he killed them both. Matricide is probably the most unbearable crime of all. and most unbearable to the son who commit it. So he had to erase the crime, at least in his own mind. ( A pause ) He stole her corpse. and a weighted coffin was buried. He hid the body in the fruit cellar, even "treated" it to keep it as well as it would keep. And that still wasn't enough. She was there, but she was a corpse. So he began to think and speak for her, gave her half his life, so to speak. At times he could be both personalities, carry on conversations. at other times, the mother-half took over completely. He was never all Norman, but he was often only mother. And because he was so pathologically jealous of her, he assumed she was as jealous of him. Therefore, if he felt a strong attraction to any other woman, the mother side of him would go wild. ( To Lila ) When Norman met your sister, he was touched by her. and aroused by her. He wanted her. And this set off his "jealous mother" and. "mother killed the girl." After the murder, Norman returned as if from a deep sleep. and like a dutiful son, covered up all traces of the crime he was convinced his mother had Why was he. dressed like that?
SAM: Why was he. dressed like that?
DISTRICT ATTORNEY: He's a transvestite!
SIMON: Not exactly. A man who dresses in woman's clothing in order to achieve a sexual change. or satisfaction. is a transvestite. But in Norman's case, he was simply doing everything possible to keep alive the illusion of his mother being alive. And whenever reality came too close, when danger or desire threatened that illusion, he'd dress up, even to a cheap wig he brought, and he'd walk about the house, sit in her chair, speak in her voice. He tried to be his mother. And now he is. That's what I meant when I said I got the story from the mother. She thinks Norman has been taken away. because of his crimes. She insists she did nothing, that Norman committed all the murders just to keep her from being discovered. She even smiled a bit coquettishly as she said that. Of course, she feels badly about it. but also somewhat relieved to be, as she put it, free of Norman, at last. When the mind houses two personalities, there is always a battle. In Norman's case, the battle is over. and the dominant personality has won. Lila begins to weep softly, for Mary, for Arbogast, for Norman, for all the destroyed human beings of this world. Sam bends beside her, puts his arm about her, comforts her.
CHAMBERS: ( To Simon ) And the forty thousand dollars? Who got that?
SIMON: The swamp. These were murders of passion, not profit. A POLICE GUARD puts his head in the door, speaks, in a near- whisper, to the Chief of Police. The Guard is carrying a folded blanket over his arm.
POLICE GUARD: He feels a little chill. can I bring him this blanket? The Chief of Police nods. The Guard goes away, and CAMERA FOLLOWS him out of the room and out into the hallway. Guard moves through the waiting men, heading down the corridor.
THE SWAMP: As END TITLES FADE IN, we see the swamp, the chain of a tow- truck. The chain is attached to Mary's car. The car is coming out of the swamp.
FADE OUT: THE END Writers : Robert Bloch Joseph Stefano
THE END: Writers : Robert Bloch Joseph Stefano
