"PULP FICTION": Quentin Tarantino & Roger Avary
YOUNG MAN: No, forget it, it's too risky. I'm through doin' that shit.
YOUNG WOMAN: You always say that, the same thing every time: never again, I'm through, too dangerous.
YOUNG MAN: I know that's what I always say. I'm always right too, but –
YOUNG WOMAN: – but you forget about it in a day or two -
YOUNG MAN: – yeah, well, the days of me forgittin' are over, and the days of me rememberin' have just begun.
YOUNG WOMAN: When you go on like this, you know what you sound like?
YOUNG MAN: I sound like a sensible fucking man, is what I sound like.
YOUNG WOMAN: You sound like a duck. Quack, quack, quack, quack, quack, quack, quack.
YOUNG MAN: Well take heart, 'cause you're never gonna hafta hear it again. Because since I'm never gonna do it again, you're never gonna hafta hear me quack about how I'm never gonna do it again.
YOUNG WOMAN: After tonight.
YOUNG MAN: ( with a smile ) Correct. I got all tonight to quack.
WAITRESS: Can I get anybody anymore coffee?
YOUNG WOMAN: Oh yes, thank you.
YOUNG MAN: I'm doin' fine.
YOUNG MAN: I mean the way it is now, you're takin' the same fuckin' risk as when you rob a bank. You take more of a risk. Banks are easier! Federal banks aren't supposed to stop you anyway, during a robbery. They're insured, why should they care? You don't even need a gun in a federal bank. I heard about this guy, walked into a federal bank with a portable phone, handed the phone to the teller, the guy on the other end of the phone said: "We got this guy's little girl, and if you don't give him all your money, we're gonna kill 'er."
YOUNG WOMAN: Did it work?
YOUNG MAN: Fuckin' A it worked, that's what I'm talkin' about! Knucklehead walks in a bank with a telephone, not a pistol, not a shotgun, but a fuckin' phone, cleans the place out, and they don't lift a fuckin' finger.
YOUNG WOMAN: Did they hurt the little girl?
YOUNG MAN: I don't know. There probably never was a little girl – the point of the story isn't the little girl. The point of the story is they robbed the bank with a telephone.
YOUNG WOMAN: You wanna rob banks?
YOUNG MAN: I'm not sayin' I wanna rob banks, I'm just illustrating that if we did, it would be easier than what we been doin'.
YOUNG WOMAN: So you don't want to be a bank robber?
YOUNG MAN: Naw, all those guys are goin' down the same road, either dead or servin' And no more liquor stores?
YOUNG WOMAN: And no more liquor stores?
YOUNG MAN: What have we been talking about? Yeah, no more-liquor-stores. Besides, it ain't the giggle it usta be. Too many foreigners own liquor stores. Vietnamese, Koreans, they can't fuckin' speak English. You tell 'em: "Empty out the register," and they don't know what it fuckin' means. They make it too personal. We keep on, one of those gook motherfuckers' gonna make us kill 'em.
YOUNG WOMAN: I'm not gonna kill anybody.
YOUNG MAN: I don't wanna kill anybody either. But they'll probably put us in a situation where it's us of them. And if it's not the gooks, it these old Jews who've owned the store for fifteen fuckin' generations. Ya got Grandpa Irving sittin' behind the counter with a fuckin' Magnum. Try walkin' into one of those stores with nothin' but a telephone, see how far it gets you. Fuck it, forget it, we're out of it.
YOUNG WOMAN: Well, what else is there, day jobs?
YOUNG MAN: ( laughing ) Not this life.
YOUNG WOMAN: Well what then?
YOUNG MAN: Garcon! Coffee!
YOUNG MAN: This place.
WAITRESS: ( snotty ) "Garcon" means boy.
YOUNG WOMAN: Here? It's a coffee shop.
YOUNG MAN: What's wrong with that? People never rob restaurants, why not? Bars, liquor stores, gas stations, you get your head blown off stickin' up one of them. Restaurants, on the other hand, you catch with their pants down. They're not expecting to get robbed, or not as expecting.
YOUNG WOMAN: ( taking to idea ) I bet in places like this you could cut down on the hero factor.
YOUNG MAN: Correct. Just like banks, these places are insured. The managers don't give a fuck, they're just tryin' to get ya out the door before you start pluggin' diners. Waitresses, forget it, they ain't takin' a bullet for the register. Busboys, some wetback gettin' paid a dollar fifty a hour gonna really give a fuck you're stealin' from the owner. Customers are sittin' there with food in their mouths, they don't know what's goin' on. One minute they're havin' a Denver omelet, next minute somebody's stickin' a gun in their face.
YOUNG MAN: See, I got the idea last liquor store we stuck up. 'Member all those customers kept comin' in?
YOUNG WOMAN: YOUNG MAN
YOUNG MAN: Then you got the idea to take everybody's wallet.
YOUNG WOMAN: YOUNG MAN
YOUNG MAN: That was a good idea.
YOUNG WOMAN: YOUNG MAN
YOUNG MAN: We made more from the wallets then we did the register.
YOUNG WOMAN: Yes we did.
YOUNG MAN: A lot of people go to restaurants.
YOUNG WOMAN: A lot of wallets.
YOUNG MAN: Pretty smart, huh? Pretty smart. I'm ready, let's go, right here, right now.
YOUNG WOMAN: Pretty smart. I'm ready, let's go, right here, right now.
YOUNG MAN: Remember, same as before, you're crowd control, I handle the employees.
YOUNG WOMAN: Got it.
YOUNG WOMAN: I love you, Pumpkin.
YOUNG MAN: I love you, Honey Bunny.
PUMPKIN: ( yelling to all ) Everybody be cool this is a robbery!
HONEY BUNNY: Any of you fuckin' pricks move and I'll execute every one of you motherfuckers! Got that?
"PULP FICTION": INT. '74 CHEVY ( MOVING ) – MORNING An old gas guzzling, dirty, white 1974 Chevy Nova BARRELS down a homeless-ridden street in Hollywood. In the front seat are two young fellas – one white, one black – both wearing cheap black suits with thin black ties under long green dusters. Their names are VINCENT VEGA ( white ) and JULES WINNFIELD ( black ). Jules is behind the wheel.
JULES: – Okay now, tell me about the hash What so you want to know?
VINCENT: What so you want to know?
JULES: Well, hash is legal there, right?
VINCENT: Yeah, it's legal, but is ain't a hundred percent legal. I mean you can't walk into a restaurant, roll a joint, and start puffin' away. You're only supposed to smoke in your home or certain designated places.
JULES: Those are hash bars?
VINCENT: Yeah, it breaks down like this: it's legal to buy it, it's legal to own it and, if you're the proprietor of a hash bar, it's legal to sell it. It's legal to carry it, which doesn't really matter 'cause – get a load of this – if the cops stop you, it's illegal for this to search you. Searching you is a right that the cops in Amsterdam don't have.
JULES: That did it, man – I'm fuckin' goin', that's all there is to it.
VINCENT: You'll dig it the most. But you know what the funniest thing about Europe It's the little differences. A lotta the same shit we got here, they got there, but there they're a little Well, in Amsterdam, you can buy beer in a movie theatre. And I don't mean in a paper cup either. They give you a glass of beer, like in a bar. In Paris, you can buy beer at MacDonald's. Also, you know what they call a Quarter Pounder with Cheese in Paris?
JULES: It's the little differences. A lotta the same shit we got here, they got there, but there they're a little Well, in Amsterdam, you can buy beer in a movie theatre. And I don't mean in a paper cup either. They give you a glass of beer, like in a bar. In Paris, you can buy beer at MacDonald's. Also, you know what they call a Quarter Pounder with Cheese in Paris?
VINCENT: It's the little differences. A lotta the same shit we got here, they got there, but there they're a little Well, in Amsterdam, you can buy beer in a movie theatre. And I don't mean in a paper cup either. They give you a glass of beer, like in a bar. In Paris, you can buy beer at MacDonald's. Also, you know what they call a Quarter Pounder with Cheese in Paris?
JULES: Well, in Amsterdam, you can buy beer in a movie theatre. And I don't mean in a paper cup either. They give you a glass of beer, like in a bar. In Paris, you can buy beer at MacDonald's. Also, you know what they call a Quarter Pounder with Cheese in Paris?
VINCENT: Well, in Amsterdam, you can buy beer in a movie theatre. And I don't mean in a paper cup either. They give you a glass of beer, like in a bar. In Paris, you can buy beer at MacDonald's. Also, you know what they call a Quarter Pounder with Cheese in Paris?
JULES: They don't call it a Quarter Pounder with Cheese?
VINCENT: No, they got the metric system there, they wouldn't know what the fuck a Quarter Pounder is.
JULES: What'd they call it?
VINCENT: Royale with Cheese.
JULES: ( repeating ) Royale with Cheese. What'd they call a Big Mac?
VINCENT: Big Mac's a Big Mac, but they call it Le Big Mac.
JULES: Le Big Mac. What do they call a I dunno, I didn't go into a Burger King. But you know what they put on french fries in Holland instead of I seen 'em do it. And I don't mean a little bit on the side of the plate, they fuckin' drown 'em in it.
VINCENT: I dunno, I didn't go into a Burger King. But you know what they put on french fries in Holland instead of I seen 'em do it. And I don't mean a little bit on the side of the plate, they fuckin' drown 'em in it.
JULES: I seen 'em do it. And I don't mean a little bit on the side of the plate, they fuckin' drown 'em in it.
VINCENT: I seen 'em do it. And I don't mean a little bit on the side of the plate, they fuckin' drown 'em in it.
JULES: I seen 'em do it. And I don't mean a little bit on the side of the plate, they fuckin' drown 'em in it.
VINCENT: I seen 'em do it. And I don't mean a little bit on the side of the plate, they fuckin' drown 'em in it.
JULES: CUT TO:
JULES: We should have shotguns for this kind of deal.
VINCENT: How many up there?
JULES: Three or four.
VINCENT: Counting our guy?
JULES: I'm not sure.
VINCENT: So there could be five guys up there?
JULES: It's possible.
VINCENT: We should have fuckin' shotguns.
VINCENT: What's her name?
JULES: How did Marsellus and her meet?
VINCENT: How did Marsellus and her meet?
JULES: I dunno, however people meet people. She usta be an actress.
VINCENT: She ever do anything I woulda saw?
JULES: I think her biggest deal was she starred in a pilot.
VINCENT: What's a pilot?
JULES: Well, you know the shows on TV?
VINCENT: I don't watch TV.
JULES: Yes, but you're aware that there's an invention called television, and on that invention they show shows?
VINCENT: Well, the way they pick the shows on TV is they make one show, and that show's called a pilot. And they show that one show to the people who pick the shows, and on the strength of that one show, they decide if they want to make more shows. Some get accepted and become TV programs, and some don't, and become nothing. She starred in one of the ones that became
JULES: Well, the way they pick the shows on TV is they make one show, and that show's called a pilot. And they show that one show to the people who pick the shows, and on the strength of that one show, they decide if they want to make more shows. Some get accepted and become TV programs, and some don't, and become nothing. She starred in one of the ones that became
JULES: You remember Antwan Rockamora? Half- black, half-Samoan, usta call him Tony Rocky Horror.
VINCENT: Yeah maybe, fat right?
JULES: I wouldn't go so far as to call the brother fat. He's got a weight problem. What's the nigger gonna do, he's Samoan.
VINCENT: I think I know who you mean, what about him?
JULES: Well, Marsellus fucked his ass up good. And word around the campfire, it was on account of Marsellus Wallace's wife.
VINCENT: What'd he do, fuck her?
JULES: No no no no no no no, nothin' that Well what then?
VINCENT: Well what then?
JULES: He gave her a foot massage.
VINCENT: A foot massage?
VINCENT: That's all?
VINCENT: What did Marsellus do?
JULES: Sent a couple of guys over to his place. They took him out on the patio of his apartment, threw his ass over the balcony. Nigger fell four stories. They had this garden at the bottom, enclosed in glass, like one of them greenhouses – nigger fell through that. Since then, he's kinda developed a speech impediment.
VINCENT: That's a damn shame.
VINCENT: Still I hafta say, play with matches, ya get burned.
JULES: Whaddya mean?
VINCENT: You don't be givin' Marsellus Wallace's new bride a foot massage.
JULES: You don't think he overreacted?
VINCENT: Antwan probably didn't expect Marsellus to react like he did, but he had to expect a reaction.
JULES: It was a foot massage, a foot massage is nothing, I give my mother a foot It's laying hands on Marsellus Wallace's new wife in a familiar way. Is it as bad as eatin' her out – no, but you're in the same fuckin'
VINCENT: It's laying hands on Marsellus Wallace's new wife in a familiar way. Is it as bad as eatin' her out – no, but you're in the same fuckin'
JULES: Whoa. whoa. whoa. stop right there. Eatin' a bitch out, and givin' a bitch a foot massage ain't even the same fuckin' thing.
VINCENT: Not the same thing, the same ballpark.
JULES: It ain't no ballpark either. Look maybe your method of massage differs from mine, but touchin' his lady's feet, and stickin' your tongue in her holyiest of holyies, ain't the same ballpark, ain't the same league, ain't even the same fuckin' sport. Foot massages don't mean shit.
VINCENT: Have you ever given a foot massage?
JULES: Don't be tellin' me about foot massages – I'm the foot fuckin' Given a lot of 'em?
VINCENT: Given a lot of 'em?
JULES: Shit yeah. I got my technique down man, I don't tickle or nothin'.
VINCENT: Have you ever given a guy a foot
JULES: Fuck you.
VINCENT: How many?
JULES: Fuck you.
VINCENT: Would you give me a foot massage – I'm kinda tired.
JULES: Man, you best back off, I'm gittin' pissed – this is the door. What time is it?
JULES: What time is it?
VINCENT: ( checking his watch ) Seven-twenty-two in the morning.
JULES: It ain't quite time, let's hang back.
JULES: Look, just because I wouldn't give no man a foot massage, don't make it right for Marsellus to throw Antwan off a building into a glass- motherfuckin-house, fuckin' up the way the nigger talks. That ain't right, man. Motherfucker do that to me, he better paralyze my ass, 'cause I'd kill'a motherfucker.
VINCENT: I'm not sayin' he was right, but you're sayin' a foot massage don't mean nothing, and I'm sayin' it does. I've given a million ladies a million foot massages and they all meant somethin'. We act like they don't, but they do. That's what's so fuckin' cool about 'em. This sensual thing's goin' on that nobody's talkin about, but you know it and she knows it, fuckin' Marsellus knew it, and Antwan shoulda known fuckin' better. That's his fuckin' wife, man. He ain't gonna have a sense of humor about that That's an interesting point, but let's get into character.
JULES: That's an interesting point, but let's get into character.
VINCENT: What's her name again?
JULES: Mia. Why you so interested in big man's wife?
VINCENT: Well, Marsellus is leavin' for Florida and when he's gone, he wants me to take care of Mia.
JULES: Take care of her?
VINCENT: Not that! Take her out. Show her a good time. Don't let her get lonely.
JULES: You're gonna be takin' Mia Wallace out on a date?
VINCENT: It ain't a date. It's like when you and your buddy's wife go to a movie or somethin'. It's just. you know. good company.
VINCENT: It's not a date.
JULES: Hey kids.
JULES: How you boys doin'?
JULES: ( to Brett ) Am I trippin', or did I just ask you a question.
BRETT: We're doin' okay.
JULES: Do you know who we are?
JULES: We're associates of your business partner Marsellus Wallace, you remember your business partner
JULES: ( to Brett ) Now I'm gonna take a wild guess here: you're Brett, right?
BRETT: I'm Brett.
JULES: I thought so. Well, you remember your business partner Marsellus Wallace, dont'ya Brett?
BRETT: I remember him.
JULES: Good for you. Looks like me and Vincent caught you at breakfast, sorry 'bout that. What'cha eatin'?
BRETT: Hamburgers. The cornerstone of any nutritious breakfast. What kinda No, I mean where did you get'em? MacDonald's, Wendy's, Jack-in-the- Box, where?
JULES: Hamburgers. The cornerstone of any nutritious breakfast. What kinda No, I mean where did you get'em? MacDonald's, Wendy's, Jack-in-the- Box, where?
BRETT: No, I mean where did you get'em? MacDonald's, Wendy's, Jack-in-the- Box, where?
JULES: No, I mean where did you get'em? MacDonald's, Wendy's, Jack-in-the- Box, where?
BRETT: Big Kahuna Burger.
JULES: Big Kahuna Burger. That's that Hawaiian burger joint. I heard they got some tasty burgers. I ain't never had one myself, how are they?
BRETT: They're good.
JULES: Mind if I try one of yours?
BRETT: Yours is this one, right?
JULES: Yours is this one, right?
BRETT: Jules grabs the burger and take a bite of it.
JULES: Uuummmm, that's a tasty burger. Vince, you ever try a Big Kahuna
VINCENT: Jules holds out the Big Kahuna.
JULES: You wanna bite, they're real good.
VINCENT: I ain't hungry.
JULES: Well, if you like hamburgers give 'em a try sometime. Me, I can't usually eat 'em 'cause my girlfriend's a vegetarian. Which more or less makes me a vegetarian, but I sure love the taste of a good burger. You know what they call a Quarter Pounder with Cheese in France?
BRETT: Tell 'em, Vincent.
JULES: Tell 'em, Vincent.
VINCENT: Royale with Cheese.
JULES: Royale with Cheese, you know why they call it that?
BRETT: Because of the metric system?
JULES: Check out the big brain on Brett. You'a smart motherfucker, that's right. The metric system. What's in this?
BRETT: Sprite, good, mind if I have some of your tasty beverage to wash this down with?
JULES: Sprite, good, mind if I have some of your tasty beverage to wash this down with?
BRETT: Jules grabs the cup and takes a sip.
JULES: Uuuuummmm, hit's the spot! You, Flock of Seagulls, you know what we're here for?
JULES: Then why don't you tell my boy here Vince, where you got the shit hid.
MARVIN: It's under the be –
JULES: – I don't remember askin' you a goddamn thing. You were sayin'?
ROGER: It's under the bed.
VINCENT: Got it.
JULES: We happy?
JULES: Vincent looks up at Jules.
JULES: We happy?
VINCENT: We're happy.
BRETT: ( to Jules ) Look, what's your name? I got his name's Vincent, but what's yours?
JULES: My name's Pitt, and you ain't talkin' your ass outta this shit.
BRETT: I just want you to know how sorry we are about how fucked up things got between us and Mr. Wallace. When we entered into this thing, we only had the best intentions –
JULES: ( to Brett ) Oh, I'm sorry. Did that break your concentration? I didn't mean to do that. Please, continue. I believe you were saying something about "best
JULES: Whatsamatter? Oh, you were through anyway. Well, let me retort. Would you describe for me what Marsellus Wallace looks like?
JULES: What country you from!
BRETT: ( petrified ) "What" ain't no country I know! Do they speak English in "What?"
JULES: "What" ain't no country I know! Do they speak English in "What?"
BRETT: ( near heart attack ) Then you understand what I'm sayin'?
JULES: Then you understand what I'm sayin'?
BRETT: Then you understand what I'm sayin'?
JULES: Then you understand what I'm sayin'?
BRETT: Now describe what Marsellus Wallace looks like!
JULES: Now describe what Marsellus Wallace looks like!
BRETT: ( out of fear ) Say "What" again! C'mon, say "What" again! I dare ya, I double dare ya motherfucker, say "What" one more goddamn time!
JULES: Say "What" again! C'mon, say "What" again! I dare ya, I double dare ya motherfucker, say "What" one more goddamn time!
JULES: Now describe to me what Marsellus Wallace looks like!
BRETT: Well he's. he's. black –
JULES: – go on!
BRETT: .and he's. he's. bald –
JULES: – does he look like a bitch?!
BRETT: ( without thinking )
JULES: ( in agony ) Then why did you try to fuck 'im like a bitch?!
BRETT: ( in agony ) Then why did you try to fuck 'im like a bitch?!
JULES: Then why did you try to fuck 'im like a bitch?!
BRETT: ( in spasm ) I didn't.
JULES: Yes ya did Brett. Ya tried ta fuck 'im. You ever read the Bible, Brett?
BRETT: ( in spasm ) There's a passage I got memorized, seems appropriate for this situation: Ezekiel 25:17. "The path of the righteous man is beset on all sides by the inequities of the selfish and the tyranny of evil men. Blessed is he who, in the name of charity and good will, shepherds the weak through the valley of darkness, for he is truly his brother's keeper and the finder of lost children. And I will strike down upon thee with great vengeance and furious anger those who attempt to poison and destroy my brothers. And you will know my name is the Lord when I lay my vengeance upon you." "VINCENT VEGA AND MARSELLUS WALLACE'S WIFE"
JULES: There's a passage I got memorized, seems appropriate for this situation: Ezekiel 25:17. "The path of the righteous man is beset on all sides by the inequities of the selfish and the tyranny of evil men. Blessed is he who, in the name of charity and good will, shepherds the weak through the valley of darkness, for he is truly his brother's keeper and the finder of lost children. And I will strike down upon thee with great vengeance and furious anger those who attempt to poison and destroy my brothers. And you will know my name is the Lord when I lay my vengeance upon you." "VINCENT VEGA AND MARSELLUS WALLACE'S WIFE"
BUTCH: I got no problem with that.
BUTCH: In the fifth, my ass goes down.
ENGLISH DAVE: Vincent Vega, our man in Amsterdam, git your ass on in here.
VINCENT: Where's the big man?
ENGLISH DAVE: He's over there, finishing up some
VINCENT: How 'bout a cup of just plain lo' Comin' up. I hear you're taking Mia out tomorrow?
ENGLISH DAVE: Comin' up. I hear you're taking Mia out tomorrow?
VINCENT: At Marsellus' request.
ENGLISH DAVE: Have you met Mia?
VINCENT: Not yet.
VINCENT: What's so funny?
ENGLISH DAVE: Not a goddamn thing.
VINCENT: Look, I'm not a idiot. She's the big man's fuckin' wife. I'm gonna sit across a table, chew my food with my mouth closed, laugh at her jokes and that's all I'm gonna do.
ENGLISH DAVE: My name's Paul, and this is between
BUTCH: ( to English Dave ) Can I get a pack'a Red Apples?
ENGLISH DAVE: While Butch waits for his smokes, Vincent just sips his coffee, staring at him. Butch looks over at him.
BUTCH: While Butch waits for his smokes, Vincent just sips his coffee, staring at him. Butch looks over at him.
BUTCH: Lookin' at somethin', friend?
VINCENT: I ain't your friend, palooka.
BUTCH: What was that?
VINCENT: I think ya heard me just fine, punchy.
JODY: .I'll lend it to you. It's a great book on body piercing.
TRUDI: You know how they use that gun when they pierce your ears? They don't use that when they pierce your nipples, do they?
JODY: Forget that gun. That gun goes against the entire idea behind piercing. All of my piercing, sixteen places on my body, every one of 'em done with a needle. Five in each ear. One through the nipple on my left breast. One through my right nostril. One through my left eyebrow. One through my lip. One in my clit. And I wear a stud in my tongue.
VINCENT: ( interrupting ) Excuse me, sorry to interrupt. I'm curious, why would you get a stud in your tongue?
JODY: It's a sex thing. It helps fellatio.
LANCE: Now this is Panda, from Mexico. Very good stuff. This is Bava, different, but equally good. And this is Choco from the Hartz Mountains of Germany. Now the first two are the same, forty- five an ounce – those are friend prices – but this one. .this one's a little more expensive. It's fifty-five. But when you shoot it, you'll know where that extra money went. Nothing wrong with the first two. It's real, real, real, good shit. But this one's a fuckin' Remember, I just got back from Am I a nigger? Are you in Inglewood? No. You're in my house. White people who know the difference between good shit and bad shit, this is the house they come to. My shit, I'll take the Pepsi Challenge with Amsterdam shit any ol' day of the fuckin' week.
VINCENT: Remember, I just got back from Am I a nigger? Are you in Inglewood? No. You're in my house. White people who know the difference between good shit and bad shit, this is the house they come to. My shit, I'll take the Pepsi Challenge with Amsterdam shit any ol' day of the fuckin' week.
LANCE: Am I a nigger? Are you in Inglewood? No. You're in my house. White people who know the difference between good shit and bad shit, this is the house they come to. My shit, I'll take the Pepsi Challenge with Amsterdam shit any ol' day of the fuckin' week.
VINCENT: That's a bold statement.
LANCE: This ain't Amsterdam, Vince. This is a seller's market. Coke is fuckin' dead as disco. Heroin's comin' back in a big fuckin' way. It's this whole seventies retro. Bell bottoms, heroin, they're as hot as hell.
VINCENT: Give me three hundred worth of the madman. If it's as good as you say, I'll be back for a thousand.
LANCE: I just hope I still have it. Whaddya think of Trudi? She ain't got a boyfriend, wanna hand out an' get Which one's Trudi? The one with all the shit in her face?
VINCENT: Which one's Trudi? The one with all the shit in her face?
LANCE: No, that's Jody. That's my wife.
VINCENT: I'm on my way somewhere. I got a dinner engagement. Rain check?
LANCE: No problem?
VINCENT: You don't mind if I shoot up here?
LANCE: Me casa, su casa.
VINCENT: Mucho gracias.
LANCE: Still got your Malibu?
VINCENT: You know what some fucker did to it the other day?
LANCE: Fuckin' keyed it.
VINCENT: Fuckin' keyed it.
LANCE: Oh man, that's fucked up.
VINCENT: Tell me about it. I had the goddamn thing in storage three years. It's out five fuckin' days – five days, and some dickless piece of shit fucks with it.
LANCE: They should be fuckin' killed. No trial, no jury, straight to execution.
VINCENT: I just wish I caught 'em doin' it, ya know? Oh man, I'd give anything to catch 'em doin' it. It'a been worth his doin' it, if I coulda just caught 'em, you know what I mean?
LANCE: It's chicken shit. You don't fuck another man's vehicle.
VINCENT: INT. MARCELLUS' HOUSE / DRESSING ROOM – NIGHT MIA, Marcellus' beautiful young wife. Video screens are in the background. Dusty Springfield is singing "SON OF A
MIA: ( into microphone )
MIA: ( over intercom ) Vincent. I'm on the intercom.
MIA: ( into microphone ) It's on the wall by the two African ( over intercom ) To your right.
MIA: ( over intercom ) To your right.
MIA: .warm. Warmer. Disco.
VINCENT: ( over intercom ) Push the button if you want to talk.
MIA: ( over intercom ) Push the button if you want to talk.
VINCENT: ( into intercom ) ( into microphone ) Go make yourself a drink., and I'll be down in two shakes of a lamb's ( over intercom ) The bar's by the fireplace.
MIA: ( into microphone ) Go make yourself a drink., and I'll be down in two shakes of a lamb's ( over intercom ) The bar's by the fireplace.
MIA: ( over intercom ) The bar's by the fireplace.
VINCENT: ( into intercom ) ( licks lips )
MIA: Let's go.
VINCENT: What the fuck is this place?
MIA: This is Jackrabbit Slim's. An Elvis man should love it.
VINCENT: Come on, Mia, let's go get a steak.
MIA: You can get a steak here, daddy-o. Don't be a.
VINCENT: After you, kitty-cat.
BUDDY: Hi, I'm Buddy, what can I get'cha?
VINCENT: I'll have the Douglas Sirk steak.
BUDDY: How d'ya want it, burnt to a crisp, or bloody as hell?
VINCENT: Bloody as hell. And to drink, a vanilla coke.
BUDDY: How 'bout you, Peggy Sue?
MIA: I'll have the Durwood Kirby burger – bloody – and a five-dollar shake.
BUDDY: How d'ya want that shake, Martin and Lewis, or Amos and Andy?
MIA: Martin and Lewis.
VINCENT: Did you just order a five-dollar Sure did.
MIA: Sure did.
VINCENT: A shake? Milk and ice cream?
MIA: It costs five dollars?
VINCENT: It costs five dollars?
BUDDY: You don't put bourbon in it or Just checking. Whaddya think?
VINCENT: You don't put bourbon in it or Just checking. Whaddya think?
BUDDY: Just checking. Whaddya think?
VINCENT: Just checking. Whaddya think?
MIA: Whaddya think?
VINCENT: It's like a wax museum with a pulse
MIA: What are you doing?
VINCENT: Rollin' a smoke.
MIA: It's just tobacco.
VINCENT: It's just tobacco.
MIA: Oh. Well in that case, will you roll me one, cowboy?
VINCENT: You can have this one, cowgirl.
MIA: Think nothing of it.
VINCENT: Think nothing of it.
MIA: Marsellus said you just got back from Amsterdam.
VINCENT: Sure did. I heard you did a pilot.
MIA: That was my fifteen minutes.
VINCENT: What was it?
MIA: It was show about a team of female secret agents called "Fox Force Five."
VINCENT: "Fox Force Five." Fox, as in we're a bunch of foxy chicks. Force, as in we're a force to be reckoned with. Five, as in there's one. two . three. four. five of us. There was a blonde one, Sommerset O'Neal from that show "Baton Rouge," she was the leader. A Japanese one, a black one, a French one and a brunette one, me. We all had special skills. Sommerset had a photographic memory, the Japanese fox was a kung fu master, the black girl was a demolition expert, the French fox' specialty was sex.
MIA: "Fox Force Five." Fox, as in we're a bunch of foxy chicks. Force, as in we're a force to be reckoned with. Five, as in there's one. two . three. four. five of us. There was a blonde one, Sommerset O'Neal from that show "Baton Rouge," she was the leader. A Japanese one, a black one, a French one and a brunette one, me. We all had special skills. Sommerset had a photographic memory, the Japanese fox was a kung fu master, the black girl was a demolition expert, the French fox' specialty was sex.
VINCENT: What was your specialty?
MIA: Knives. The character I played, Raven McCoy, her background was she was raised by circus performers. So she grew up doing a knife act. According to the show, she was the deadliest woman in the world with a knife. But because she grew up in a circus, she was also something of an acrobat. She could do illusions, she was a trapeze artist – when you're keeping the world safe from evil, you never know when being a trapeze artist's gonna come in handy. And she knew a zillion old jokes her grandfather, an old vaudevillian, taught her. If we woulda got picked up, they woulda worked in a gimmick where every episode I woulda told and ol joke.
VINCENT: Do you remember any of the jokes?
MIA: Well I only got the chance to say one, 'cause we only did one show.
VINCENT: Tell me.
MIA: No. It's really corny.
VINCENT: C'mon, don't be that way.
MIA: No. You won't like it and I'll be You told it in front of fifty million people and you can't tell it to me? I promise I won't laugh.
VINCENT: You told it in front of fifty million people and you can't tell it to me? I promise I won't laugh.
MIA: ( laughing ) That's what I'm afraid of.
VINCENT: That's not what I meant and you know You're quite the silver tongue devil, aren't you?
MIA: You're quite the silver tongue devil, aren't you?
VINCENT: I meant I wouldn't laugh at you.
MIA: That's not what you said Vince. Well now I'm definitely not gonna tell ya, 'cause it's been built up too What a gyp.
VINCENT: What a gyp.
MIA: Can I have a sip of that? I'd like to know what a five-dollar shake tastes like.
VINCENT: Can I have a sip of that? I'd like to know what a five-dollar shake tastes like.
MIA: Be my guest.
MIA: You can use my straw, I don't have
VINCENT: Yeah, but maybe I do.
MIA: Kooties I can handle.
VINCENT: Goddamn! That's a pretty fuckin' good milk shake.
MIA: Told ya.
VINCENT: I don't know if it's worth five dollars, but it's pretty fuckin'
MIA: Don't you hate that?
VINCENT: Uncomfortable silences. Why do we feel it's necessary to yak about bullshit in order to be comfortable?
MIA: Uncomfortable silences. Why do we feel it's necessary to yak about bullshit in order to be comfortable?
VINCENT: I don't know.
MIA: That's when you know you found somebody special. When you can just shit the fuck up for a minute, and comfortably share silence.
VINCENT: I don't think we're there yet. But don't feel bad, we just met each Well I'll tell you what, I'll go to the bathroom and powder my nose, while you sit here and think of something to say.
MIA: Well I'll tell you what, I'll go to the bathroom and powder my nose, while you sit here and think of something to say.
VINCENT: I'll do that.
MIA: ( imitating Steppenwolf ) I said goddamn!
MIA: Don't you love it when you go to the bathroom and you come back to find your food waiting for you?
VINCENT: We're lucky we got it at all. Buddy Holly doesn't seem to be much of a waiter. We shoulda sat in Marilyn Monroe's section.
MIA: Which one, there's two Marilyn No there's not.
VINCENT: No there's not.
VINCENT: That's Marilyn Monroe.
VINCENT: . and that's Mamie Van Doren. I don't see Jayne Mansfield, so it must be her night off.
MIA: Pretty smart.
VINCENT: I have moments.
MIA: Did ya think of something to say?
VINCENT: Actually, there's something I've wanted to ask you about, but you seem like a nice person, and I didn't want to offend you.
MIA: Oooohhhh, this doesn't sound like mindless, boring, getting-to-know- you chit-chat. This sounds like you actually have something to say.
VINCENT: Only if you promise not to get You can't promise something like that. I have no idea what you're gonna ask. You could ask me what you're gonna ask me, and my natural response could be to be offended. Then, through no fault of my own, I woulda broken my promise.
MIA: You can't promise something like that. I have no idea what you're gonna ask. You could ask me what you're gonna ask me, and my natural response could be to be offended. Then, through no fault of my own, I woulda broken my promise.
VINCENT: Then let's just forget it.
MIA: That is an impossibility. Trying to forget anything as intriguing as this would be an exercise in futility.
VINCENT: Is that a fact?
MIA: Besides, it's more exciting when you don't have permission.
VINCENT: What do you think about what happened to Antwan?
MIA: Who's Antwan?
VINCENT: Tony Rocky Horror.
MIA: He fell out of a window.
VINCENT: That's one way to say it. Another way is, he was thrown out. Another was is, he was thrown out by Marsellus. And even another way is, he was thrown out of a window by Marsellus because of you.
MIA: Is that a fact?
VINCENT: No it's not, it's just what I heard.
MIA: Who told you this?
VINCENT: Mia and Vincent smile.
MIA: They talk a lot, don't they?
VINCENT: They certainly do.
MIA: Well don't by shy Vincent, what exactly did they say?
MIA: Let me help you Bashful, did it involve the F-word?
VINCENT: No. They just said Rocky Horror gave you a foot massage.
MIA: No and, that's it.
VINCENT: No and, that's it.
MIA: You heard Marsellus threw Rocky Horror out of a four-story window because he massaged my feet?
VINCENT: And you believed that?
MIA: And you believed that?
VINCENT: At the time I was told, it seemed Marsellus throwing Tony out of a four story window for giving me a foot massage seemed reasonable?
MIA: Marsellus throwing Tony out of a four story window for giving me a foot massage seemed reasonable?
VINCENT: No, it seemed excessive. But that doesn't mean it didn't happen. I heard Marsellus is very protective of you.
MIA: A husband being protective of his wife is one thing. A husband almost killing another man for touching his wife's feet is something else.
VINCENT: But did it happen?
MIA: The only thing Antwan ever touched of mine was my hand, when he shook it. I met Anwan once – at my wedding – then never again. The truth is, nobody knows why Marsellus tossed Tony Rocky Horror out of that window except Marsellus and Tony Rocky Horror. But when you scamps get together, you're worse than a sewing Ladies and gentlemen, now the moment you've all been waiting for, the worldfamous Jackrabbit Slim's twist
ED SULLIVAN: ( into microphone ) Ladies and gentlemen, now the moment you've all been waiting for, the worldfamous Jackrabbit Slim's twist
ED SULLIVAN: .One lucky couple will win this handsome trophy that Marilyn here is
ED SULLIVAN: .Now, who will be our first
MIA: Right here.
MIA: I wanna dance.
VINCENT: No, no, no no, no, no, no, no.
MIA: ( overlapping ) No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I do believe Marsellus, my husband, your boss, told you to take me out and do whatever I wanted, Now, I want to dance. I want to win. I want that ( sighs ) All right.
VINCENT: ( sighs ) All right.
MIA: So, dance good.
VINCENT: All right, you asked for it.
ED SULLIVAN: ( into microphone ) Let's hear it for our first
ED SULLIVAN: Now let's meet our first contestants here this evening. Young lady, what is your name?
MIA: ( into microphone ) Missus Mia Wallace.
ED SULLIVAN: ( into microphone ) And, uh, how 'bout your fella here?
MIA: ( into microphone ) Vincent Vega.
ED SULLIVAN: ( into microphone ) All right, let's see what you can do. Take it away!
VINCENT: Was than an uncomfortable silence?
MIA: I don't know what that was. Music and drinks!
VINCENT: I'm gonna take a piss.
MIA: That was a little bit more information than I needed to know, but go right Disco! Vince, you little cola nut, you've been holding out on me.
MIA: ( like you would say Bingo! ) Disco! Vince, you little cola nut, you've been holding out on me.
VINCENT: One drink and leave. Don't be rude, but drink your drink quickly, say goodbye, walk out the door, get in your car, and go down the road.
LIVING ROOM: Mia has the unbeknownst-to-her heroin cut up into big lines on her glass top coffee table. Taking her trusty hundred dollar bill like a human Dust-Buster, she quickly snorts the fat line.
BATHROOM: Vincent dries his hands on a towel while he continues his dialogue with the mirror.
VINCENT: .It's a moral test of yourself, whether or not you can maintain loyalty. Because when people are loyal to each other, that's very
LIVING ROOM: Mia is on all fours trying to crawl to the bathroom, but it's like she's trying to crawl with the bones removed from her knees. Blood begins to drip from Mia's nose. Then her stomach gets into the act and she VOMITS.
BATHROOM: Vince continues.
VINCENT: So you're gonna go out there, drink your drink, say "Goodnight, I've had a very lovely evening," go home, and jack off. And that's all you're gonna do.
LIVING ROOM: We follow behind Vincent as he walks from the bathroom to the living room, where he finds Mia lying on the floor like a rag doll. She's twisted on her back. Blood and puke are down her front. And her face is contorted. Not out of the tightness of pain, but just the opposite, the muscles in her face are so relaxed, she lies still with her mouth wide open. Vincent moves like greased lightning to Mia's fallen body. Bending down where she lays, he puts his fingers on her neck to check her pulse. She slightly stirs. Mia is aware of Vincent over her, speaking to her.
VINCENT: Jesus Christ!
VINCENT: ( sounding weird ) Mia! MIA! What the hell happened?
VINCENT: ( to himself ) I'll be a son-of-a-bitch. ( to Mia ) Mia! MIA! What did you take? Answer me honey, what did you take?
VINCENT: ( yelling to Mia ) Okay honey, we're getting you on your feet.
VINCENT: We're on our feet now, and now we're gonna talk out to the car. Here we go, watch us walk.
LANCE: ( calling back ) I can hear it!
LANCE: ( by the phone ) I told 'em and that's what I'm gonna tell this fuckin' asshole right now! ( he answers the phone ) Hello, do you know how late it is? You're not supposed to be callin' me this fuckin' late.
VINCENT: Lance, this is Vincent, I'm in big fuckin' trouble man, I'm on my way to your place.
LANCE: Whoa, hold you horses man, what's the problem?
VINCENT: You still got an adrenaline shot?
LANCE: ( dawning on him ) I need it man, I got a chick she's fuckin' Doing on me.
VINCENT: I need it man, I got a chick she's fuckin' Doing on me.
LANCE: Don't bring her here! I'm not even fuckin' joking with you, don't you be bringing some fucked up pooh-butt to my house!
VINCENT: No choice.
LANCE: She's ODin'?
VINCENT: Yeah. She's dyin'.
LANCE: Then bite the fuckin' bullet, take 'er to a hospital and call a lawyer!
VINCENT: She ain't my fuckin' problem, you fucked her up, you deal with it – are you talkin' to me on a cellular I don't know you, who is this, don't come here, I'm hangin' up.
LANCE: She ain't my fuckin' problem, you fucked her up, you deal with it – are you talkin' to me on a cellular I don't know you, who is this, don't come here, I'm hangin' up.
VINCENT: I don't know you, who is this, don't come here, I'm hangin' up.
LANCE: I don't know you, who is this, don't come here, I'm hangin' up.
VINCENT: Too late, I'm already here.
LANCE: Have you lost your mind?! You crashed your car in my fuckin' house! You talk about drug shit on a cellular fuckin' phone –
VINCENT: If you're through havin' your little hissy fit, this chick is dyin', get your needle and git it now!
LANCE: Are you deaf? You're not bringin' that fucked up bitch in my house!
VINCENT: This fucked up bitch is Marsellus Wallace's wife. Now if she fuckin' croaks on me, I'm a grease spot. But before he turns me into a bar soap, I'm gonna be forced to tell 'im about how you coulda saved her life, but instead you let her die on your front
JODY: It's only one-thirty in the goddamn mornin'! What the fuck's goin' on out here?
JODY: Who's she?
LANCE: Get that black box in the bedroom I have with the adrenaline shot.
JODY: What's wrong with her?
VINCENT: She's ODing on us.
JODY: Well get her the hell outta here!
JODY: Don't yell and me!
VINCENT: ( to Lance ) You two are a match made in heaven.
LANCE: Look, just keep talkin' to her, okay? While she's gettin' the shot, I gotta get a medical book.
VINCENT: What do you need a medical book for?
LANCE: To tell me how to do it. I've never given an adrenaline shot before.
VINCENT: You've had that thing for six years and you never used it?
LANCE: I never had to use it. I don't go joypoppin' with bubble-gummers, all of my friends can handle their highs!
VINCENT: Well then get it.
LANCE: I am, if you'll let me.
VINCENT: I'm not fuckin' stoppin' you.
LANCE: Stop talkin' to me, and start talkin' to her.
LANCE: ( calling back ) I'm looking as fast as I can!
LANCE: My black medical book!
JODY: Whata're you looking for?
LANCE: My black fuckin' medical book. It's like a text book they give to nurses.
JODY: I never saw a medical book.
LANCE: Trust me, I have one.
JODY: Well if it's that important, why didn't you keep it with the shot?
LANCE: I don't know! Stop bothering me!
JODY: While you're lookin' for it, that girl's gonna die on our carpet. You're never gonna find it in all this shit. For six months now, I've been telling you to clean this room –
LIVING ROOM: Vincent is bent over Mia, talking softly to her, when Lance reenters the room.
VINCENT: Quit fuckin' around man and give her the shot!
LANCE: While I'm doing this, take her shirt off and find her heart.
VINCENT: Does it have to be exact?
LANCE: Yeah, it has to be exact! I'm giving her an injection in the heart, so I gotta exactly hit her in the heart.
VINCENT: Well, I don't know exactly where her heart is, I think it's here. That's it.
LANCE: That's it.
VINCENT: I need a big fat magic marker, got I need a big fat magic marker, any felt pen'll do, but a magic marker would be great.
JODY: I need a big fat magic marker, any felt pen'll do, but a magic marker would be great.
VINCENT: I need a big fat magic marker, any felt pen'll do, but a magic marker would be great.
JODY: Hold on.
LANCE: It's ready, I'll tell you what to You're gonna give her the shot.
VINCENT: You're gonna give her the shot.
LANCE: No, you're gonna give her the shot.
VINCENT: I've never does this before.
LANCE: I've never done this before either, and I ain't starting now. You brought 'er here, that means you give her the shot. The day I bring an ODing bitch to your place, then I gotta give her the shot.
JODY: Got it.
VINCENT: Okay, what do I do?
LANCE: Well, you're giving her an injection of adrenaline straight to her heart. But she's got a breast plate in front of her heart, so you gotta pierce through that. So what you gotta do is bring the needle down in a stabbing
VINCENT: I gotta stab her?
LANCE: If you want the needle to pierce through to her heart, you gotta stab her hard.
VINCENT: What happens after that?
LANCE: I'm curious about that myself.
VINCENT: This ain't a fuckin' joke man!
LANCE: She's supposed to come out of it like – – that.
VINCENT: Count to three.
LANCE: RED DOT on Mia's body. Needle raised ready to strike.
LANCE: If you're okay, say something.
MIA: Vincent and Lance collapse on their backs, exhausted and shaking from how close to death Mia came.
JODY: Anybody want a beer?
VINCENT: What are your thoughts on how to handle this?
MIA: What's yours?
VINCENT: Well I'm of the opinion that Marsellus can live his whole live and never ever hear of this incident.
MIA: Don't worry about it. If Marsellus ever heard of this, I'd be in as much trouble as you.
VINCENT: I seriously doubt that.
MIA: If you can keep a secret, so can I.
VINCENT: Let's shake on it.
VINCENT: Mum's the word.
VINCENT: If you'll excuse me, I gotta go home and have a heart attack.
MIA: You still wanna hear my "FOX FORCE FIVE" joke?
VINCENT: Sure, but I think I'm still a little too petrified to laugh.
MIA: Uh-huh. You won't laugh because it's not funny. But if you still wanna hear it, I'll tell it.
VINCENT: I can't wait.
MIA: Three tomatoes are walking down the street, a poppa tomato, a momma tomato, and a little baby tomato. The baby tomato is lagging behind the poppa and momma tomato. The poppa tomato gets mad, goes over to the momma tomato and stamps on him – – and says: catch up.
MIA: See ya 'round, Vince.
BUTCH'S POV: We're in the living room of a modest two bedroom house in Alhambra, California, in the year 1972. BUTCH'S MOTHER, 35ish, stands in the doorway leading into the living room. Next to her is a man dressed in the uniform of an American Air Force officer. The CAMERA is the perspective of a five-year old
MOTHER: Butch, stop watching TV a second. We got a special visitor. Now do you remember when I told you your daddy dies in a P.O.W. camp?
MOTHER: Well this here is Capt. Koons. He was in the P.O.W. camp with Daddy. Hello, little man. Boy I sure heard a bunch about you. See, I was a good friend of your Daddy's. We were in that Hanoi pit of hell over five years together. Hopefully, you'll never have to experience this yourself, but when two men are in a situation like me and your Daddy were, for as long as we were, you take on certain responsibilities of the other. If it had been me who had not made it, Major Coolidge would be talkin' right now to my son Jim. But the way it worked out is I'm talkin' to you, Butch. I got somethin' for
CAPT. KOONS: Hello, little man. Boy I sure heard a bunch about you. See, I was a good friend of your Daddy's. We were in that Hanoi pit of hell over five years together. Hopefully, you'll never have to experience this yourself, but when two men are in a situation like me and your Daddy were, for as long as we were, you take on certain responsibilities of the other. If it had been me who had not made it, Major Coolidge would be talkin' right now to my son Jim. But the way it worked out is I'm talkin' to you, Butch. I got somethin' for
CAPT. KOONS: This watch I got here was first purchased by your great-granddaddy. It was bought during the First World War in a little general store in Knoxville, Tennessee. It was bought by private Doughboy Ernie Coolidge the day he set sail for Paris. It was your great-granddaddy's war watch, made by the first company to ever make wrist watches. You see, up until then, people just carried pocket watches. Your great-granddaddy wore that watch every day he was in the war. Then when he had done his duty, he went home to your great- grandmother, took the watch off his wrist and put it in an ol' coffee can. And in that can it stayed 'til your grandfather Dane Coolidge was called upon by his country to go overseas and fight the Germans once again. This time they called it World War Two. Your great-granddaddy gave it to your granddad for good luck. Unfortunately, Dane's luck wasn't as good as his old man's. Your granddad was a Marine and he was killed with all the other Marines at the battle of Wake Island. Your granddad was facing death and he knew it. None of those boys had any illusions about ever leavin' that island alive. So three days before the Japanese took the island, your 22-year old grandfather asked a gunner on an Air Force transport named Winocki, a man he had never met before in his life, to deliver to his infant son, who he had never seen in the flesh, his gold watch. Three days later, your grandfather was dead. But Winocki kept his word. After the war was over, he paid a visit to your grandmother, delivering to your infant father, his Dad's gold watch. This watch. This watch was on your Daddy's wrist when he was shot down over Hanoi. He was captured and put in a Vietnamese prison camp. Now he knew if the gooks ever saw the watch it'd be confiscated. The way your Daddy looked at it, that watch was your birthright. And he'd be damned if and slopeheads were gonna put their greasy yella hands on his boy's birthright. So he hid it in the one place he knew he could hide somethin'. His ass. Five long years, he wore this watch up his ass. Then when he died of dysentery, he gave me the watch. I hid with uncomfortable hunk of metal up my ass for two years. Then, after seven years, I was sent home to my family. And now, little man, I give the watch to you.
KLONDIKE: It's time, Butch.
BUTCH: I'm ready.
ESMARELDA: ( Spanish accent ) Are you the man I was supposed to pick up?
BUTCH: If you're the cab I called, I'm the guy you're supposed to pick up.
ESMARELDA: Where to?
BUTCH: Outta here.
VINCENT: Mia. How you doin'?
MIA: Great. I never thanked you for the
ENGLISH DAVE: He booked.
ENGLISH DAVE: I'll take care of it.
BUTCH: Hey, how do I open the window back I have to do it.
ESMARELDA: I have to do it.
ESMARELDA: Hey, mister?
BUTCH: ( still working on the glove ) You were in that fight? The fight on the radio – you're the fighter?
ESMARELDA: You were in that fight? The fight on the radio – you're the fighter?
BUTCH: Whatever gave you that idea?
ESMARELDA: No c'mon, you're him, I know you're him, tell me you're him.
BUTCH: ( drying himself with a gym towel ) I'm him.
ESMARELDA: You killed the other boxing man.
BUTCH: He's dead?
ESMARELDA: The radio said he was dead.
BUTCH: ( to himself ) Sorry 'bout that, Floyd.
ESMARELDA: What does it feel like?
BUTCH: ( finds his shirt ) What does what feel like?
ESMARELDA: Killing a man. Beating another man to death with your bare hands.
BUTCH: Are you some kinda weirdo?
ESMARELDA: No, it's a subject I have much interest in. You are the first person I ever met who has killed somebody. So, what was it like to kill a man?
BUTCH: Tell ya what, you give me one of them cigarettes, I'll give you an
ESMARELDA: Butch leans forward. Esmarelda, keeping her eyes on the road, passes a cigarette back to him. He takes it. Then, still not looking behind her, she brings up her hand, a lit match in Butch lights his smoke, then blows out the match. He takes a long drag.
BUTCH: He looks at her license.
BUTCH: .Esmarelda Villalobos – is that The name is Spanish, but I'm It's a very pretty name.
ESMARELDA: The name is Spanish, but I'm It's a very pretty name.
BUTCH: It's a very pretty name.
ESMARELDA: It mean "Esmarelda of the wolves."
BUTCH: That's one hell of a name you got there, sister.
ESMARELDA: Thank you. And what is your name?
BUTCH: Butch. What does it mean?
ESMARELDA: Butch. What does it mean?
BUTCH: I'm an American, our names don't mean shit. Anyway, moving right along, what is it you wanna know, Esmarelda?
ESMARELDA: I want to know what it feels like to kill a man –
BUTCH: – I couldn't tell ya. I didn't know he was dead 'til you told me he was dead. Now I know he's dead, do you wanna know how I feel about it?
BUTCH: I don't feel the least little bit
BUTCH: ( into phone ) What'd I tell ya, soon as the word got out a fix was in, the odds would be outta control. Hey, if he was a better fighter he's be alive. If he never laced up his gloves in the first place, which he never shoulda done, he'd be alive. Enough about the poor unfortunate Mr. Floyd, let's talk about the rich and prosperous Mr. Butch. How many bookies you spread it around with?
BUTCH: ( to himself in French with English subtitles ) Fabienne my love, our adventure
ESMARELDA: Forty-five sixty.
BUTCH: Merci beaucoup. And here's a little something for the effort.
BUTCH: Now if anybody should ask you about who your fare was tonight, what're you gonna tell 'em?
ESMARELDA: The truth. Three well-dressed, slightly toasted, Mexicans.
BUTCH: Bon soir, Esmarelda.
ESMARELDA: ( in Spanish ) Sleep well, Butch.
FABIENNE: Keep the light off.
BUTCH: Is that better, sugar pop?
FABIENNE: Oui. Hard day at the office?
BUTCH: Pretty hard. I got into a fight.
FABIENNE: Poor baby. Can we make spoons? I was looking at myself in the mirror.
FABIENNE: I was looking at myself in the mirror.
BUTCH: I wish I had a pot.
FABIENNE: I wish I had a pot.
BUTCH: You were lookin' in the mirror and you wish you had some pot?
FABIENNE: A pot. A pot belly. Pot bellies are Well you should be happy, 'cause you Shut up, Fatso! I don't have a pot! I have a bit of a tummy, like Madonna when she did "Lucky Star," it's not the same thing.
BUTCH: Well you should be happy, 'cause you Shut up, Fatso! I don't have a pot! I have a bit of a tummy, like Madonna when she did "Lucky Star," it's not the same thing.
FABIENNE: Shut up, Fatso! I don't have a pot! I have a bit of a tummy, like Madonna when she did "Lucky Star," it's not the same thing.
BUTCH: I didn't realize there was a difference between a tummy and a pot The difference is huge.
FABIENNE: The difference is huge.
BUTCH: You want me to have a pot?
FABIENNE: No. Pot bellies make a man look either oafish, or like a gorilla. But on a woman, a pot belly is very sexy. The rest of you is normal. Normal face, normal legs, normal hips, normal ass, but with a big, perfectly round pot belly. If I had one, I'd wear a tee-shirt two sizes too small to accentuate it.
BUTCH: You think guys would find that I don't give a damn what men find attractive. It's unfortunate what we find pleasing to the touch and pleasing to the eye is seldom the If you a pot belly, I'd punch you in You'd punch me in my belly?
FABIENNE: I don't give a damn what men find attractive. It's unfortunate what we find pleasing to the touch and pleasing to the eye is seldom the If you a pot belly, I'd punch you in You'd punch me in my belly?
BUTCH: If you a pot belly, I'd punch you in You'd punch me in my belly?
FABIENNE: You'd punch me in my belly?
BUTCH: Right in the belly.
FABIENNE: I'd smother you. I'd drop it on your right on your face 'til you couldn't You'd do that to me?
BUTCH: You'd do that to me?
FABIENNE: Did you get everything, sugar pop?
BUTCH: Did you get everything, sugar pop?
FABIENNE: Yes, I did.
BUTCH: Good job.
FABIENNE: Did everything go as planned?
BUTCH: You didn't listen to the radio?
FABIENNE: I never listen to your fights. Were you the winner?
BUTCH: I won alright.
FABIENNE: Are you still retiring?
BUTCH: Sure am.
FABIENNE: What about the man you fought?
BUTCH: Floyd retired too.
FABIENNE: ( smiling ) Really?! He won't be fighting no Not no more.
BUTCH: Not no more.
FABIENNE: So it all worked out in the finish?
BUTCH: We ain't at the finish, baby.
FABIENNE: We're in a lot of danger, aren't we?
FABIENNE: If they find us, they'll kill us, won't they?
FABIENNE: But they won't find us, will they?
FABIENNE: Do you still want me to go with you?
FABIENNE: I don't want to be a burden or a nuisance -
FABIENNE: Say it!
BUTCH: Fabienne, I want you to be with me.
FABIENNE: .and ever.
BUTCH: .and ever.
FABIENNE: Do you love me?
BUTCH: Butch? Will you give me oral pleasure?
FABIENNE: Butch? Will you give me oral pleasure?
BUTCH: Will you kiss it?
FABIENNE: But you first.
FABIENNE: ( in French, with English subtitles ) Butch my love, the adventure begins.
MOTEL ROOM: Same motel room, except empty. WE HEAR THE SHOWER RUNNING in the bathroom. The CAMERA MOVES to the bathroom doorway. We see Fabienne in a white terry cloth robe that seems to swallow her up. She's drying her head with a towel. Butch is inside the shower washing up. We see the outline of his naked body through the smoky glass of the shower door. Steam fills the bathroom. Butch turns the shower off and opens the door, popping his head out.
BUTCH: I think I cracked a rib.
FABIENNE: Giving me oral pleasure?
BUTCH: No retard, from the fight.
FABIENNE: Don't call me retard.
BUTCH: ( in a Mongoloid voice ) My name is Fabby! My name is Fabby!
FABIENNE: Shut up fuck head! I hate that Mongoloid voice.
BUTCH: Okay, sorry, sorry, sorry, I take it back! Can I have a towel please, Miss Beautiful Tulip.
FABIENNE: Oh I like that, I like being called a tulip. Tulip is much better than
BUTCH: I didn't call you a Mongoloid, I called you a retard, but I took it
BUTCH: Merci beaucoup.
FABIENNE: ( drying his head ) Yes, lemon pie.
BUTCH: ( drying his head ) Yes, lemon pie.
FABIENNE: Where are we going to go?
BUTCH: I'm not sure yet. Wherever you want. We're gonna get a lot of money from this. But it ain't gonna be so much, we can live like hogs in the fat house forever. I was thinking we could go somewhere in the South Pacific. The kinda money we'll have'll carry us a long way down there.
FABIENNE: So if we wanted, we could live in Bora Bora?
BUTCH: You betcha. And if after awhile you don't dig Bora Bora, then we can move over to Tahiti or Mexico.
FABIENNE: But I do not speak Spanish.
BUTCH: You don't speak Bora Boran either. Besides, Mexican is easy: Donde esta el zapataria?
FABIENNE: What does that mean?
BUTCH: Where's the shoe store?
FABIENNE: Donde esta el zapataria?
BUTCH: Excellent pronunciation. You'll be my little mama ceta in no time.
FABIENNE: Que hora es?
FABIENNE: What time is it?
FABIENNE: She walks out of the bathroom to ask Butch a question, only to find him sound asleep in bed. She looks at him for a moment.
FABIENNE: Forget it.
FABIENNE: Merde! You startled me. Did you have a bad dream?
BUTCH: What are you watching?
FABIENNE: A motorcycle movie, I'm not sure the Are you watchin' it?
BUTCH: Are you watchin' it?
FABIENNE: In a way. Why? Would you like for me to switch it off?
BUTCH: Would you please?
BUTCH: It's a little too early in the morning for explosions and war.
FABIENNE: What was it about?
BUTCH: How should I know, you were the one watchin' it.
FABIENNE: No, imbecile, what was your dream Oh, I. don't remember. It's really rare I remember a dream.
BUTCH: Oh, I. don't remember. It's really rare I remember a dream.
FABIENNE: You just woke up from it.
BUTCH: Fabienne, I'm not lying to you, I don't remember.
FABIENNE: Well, let's look at the grumpy man in the morning. I didn't say you were lying, it's just odd you don't remember your dreams. I always remember mine. Did you know you talk in your sleep?
BUTCH: I don't talk in my sleep, do I talk in my sleep?
FABIENNE: You did last night.
BUTCH: What did I say?
FABIENNE: I don't know. I couldn't understand
FABIENNE: Why don't you get up and we'll get some breakfast at that breakfast place with the pancakes.
BUTCH: One more kiss and I'll get up.
FABIENNE: Then get up, lazy bones.
BUTCH: Then get up, lazy bones.
FABIENNE: Then get up, lazy bones.
BUTCH: What time is it?
FABIENNE: Almost nine in the morning. What time does our train arrive?
BUTCH: I'm gonna order a big plate of blueberry pancakes with maple syrup, eggs over easy, and five sausages.
FABIENNE: I'm gonna order a big plate of blueberry pancakes with maple syrup, eggs over easy, and five sausages.
BUTCH: ( surprised at her potential appetite ) Anything to drink with that?
FABIENNE: ( referring to his clothes ) Oh yes, that looks nice. To drink, a tall glass or orange juice and a black cup of coffee. After that, I'm going to have a slice of pie.
BUTCH: Pie for breakfast?
FABIENNE: Any time of the day is a good time for pie. Blueberry pie to go with the pancakes. And on top, a thin slice of melted cheese –
BUTCH: – where's my watch?
FABIENNE: It's there.
BUTCH: No, it's not. It's not here.
FABIENNE: Have you looked?
BUTCH: Yes I've fuckin' looked!!
BUTCH: What the fuck do you think I'm doing?! Are you sure you got it?
FABIENNE: Uhhh. yes. beside the table drawer
BUTCH: – on the little kangaroo.
FABIENNE: Yes, it was on your little kangaroo.
BUTCH: Well it's not here!
FABIENNE: ( on the verge of tears ) Well it should be!
BUTCH: Oh it most definitely should be here, but it's not. So where is it? Fabienne, that was my father's fuckin' watch. You know what my father went through to git me that watch?. I don't wanna get into it right now. but he went through a lot. Now all this other shit, you coulda set on fire, but I specifically reminded you not to forget my father's watch. Now think, did you get it?
BUTCH: Fabienne, that was my father's fuckin' watch. You know what my father went through to git me that watch?. I don't wanna get into it right now. but he went through a lot. Now all this other shit, you coulda set on fire, but I specifically reminded you not to forget my father's watch. Now think, did you get it?
FABIENNE: I believe so.
BUTCH: You believe so? You either did, or you didn't, now which one is it?
FABIENNE: Then I did.
BUTCH: Are you sure?
FABIENNE: ( shaking )
BUTCH: ( to Fabienne ) No! It's not your fault. ( he approached her ) You left it at the apartment.
BUTCH: If you did leave it at the apartment, it's not your fault. I had you bring a bunch of stuff. I reminded you about it, but I didn't illustrate how personal the watch was to me. If all I gave a fuck about was my watch, I should've told you. You ain't a mind reader.
FABIENNE: I'm sorry.
BUTCH: Don't be. It just means I won't be able to eat breakfast with you.
FABIENNE: Why does it mean that?
BUTCH: Because I'm going back to my apartment to get my watch.
FABIENNE: Won't the gangsters be looking for you there?
BUTCH: That's what I'm gonna find out. If they are, and I don't think I can handle it, I'll split.
FABIENNE: I was so dreadful. I saw your watch, I thought I brought it. I'm so sorry.
BUTCH: Don't feel bad, sugar pop. Nothing you could ever do would make me permanently angry at you. I love you, remember? Now here's some money, order those pancakes and have a great breakfast.
FABIENNE: Don't go.
BUTCH: I'll be back before you can say, blueberry pie.
FABIENNE: Blueberry pie.
BUTCH: Well maybe not that fast, but fast. Okay? Okay?
FABIENNE: He kisses her once more and heads for the door.
BUTCH: Bye-bye, sugar pop.
FABIENNE: I'm gonna take your Honda.
BUTCH: I'm gonna take your Honda.
FABIENNE: And with that, he's out the door. Fabienne sits on the bed and looks at the money he gave her.
BUTCH: Of all the fuckin' things she coulda forgot, she forgets my father's watch. I specifically reminded her not to forget it. "Bedside table – on the kangaroo." I said the words: "Don't forget my father's watch."
BUTCH: ( softly ) Holy shit.
BUTCH: That's how you're gonna beat 'em, Butch. They keep underestimatin'
PEDESTRIAN: Jesus, are you okay?
BUTCH: I guess.
GAWKER #1: ( to the others ) He's dead! He's dead!
GAWKER #2: If you need a witness in court, I'll be glad to help. He was a drunken maniac. He hit you and crashed into that car.
MARSELLUS: ( still incoherent ) ( pointing at Butch )
GAWKER #2: ( pointing at Butch )
MARSELLUS: Well, I'll be damned. Sacre bleu. Oh my God, I've been shot!
BUTCH: Sacre bleu. Oh my God, I've been shot!
MAYNARD: Can I help you wit' somethin'?
BUTCH: Shut up!
MAYNARD: Now you just wait one goddamn minute
BUTCH: So you like chasing people, huh?
BUTCH: Well guess what, big man, you caught me –
BUTCH: Look mister, this ain't any of your business –
MAYNARD: – I'm makin' it my business! Now toss that gun!
MAYNARD: Now you on top, stand up and come to the counter.
MAYNARD: Zed? It's Maynard. The spider just caught a coupl'a flies.
MAYNARD: Nobody kills anybody in my place of business except me or Zed.
MAYNARD: That's Zed.
ZED: ( to Maynard ) You said you waited for me?
MAYNARD: I did.
ZED: Then how come they're all beat up?
MAYNARD: They did that to each other. They was fightin' when they came in. This one was gonna shoot that one.
ZED: ( to Butch ) You were gonna shoot him?
ZED: Hey, is Grace gonna be okay in front of this place?
MAYNARD: Yeah, it ain't Tuesday is it?
ZED: No, it's Thursday.
MAYNARD: Then she'll be fine.
ZED: Bring out The Gimp.
MAYNARD: I think The Gimp's sleepin'.
ZED: Well, I guess you'll just wake 'em up then, won't you?
MAYNARD: ( yelling in the hole ) Wake up!
MAYNARD: ( to The Gimp )
MAYNARD: Who's first?
ZED: I ain't fer sure yet.
ZED: Wanna do it here?
MAYNARD: Naw, drag big boy to Russell's old
MAYNARD: ( to The Gimp )
MAYNARD: Keep an eye on this one.
THE GIMP: The Gimp FLAILS WILDLY, trying to get the leash off the hook. He tries to yell, but all that comes out are excited gurgles and grunts. Butch is out of his chair, quickly dispensing three BOXER'S PUNCHES to its face. The punches knock The Gimp out, making him fall to his knees, this HANGING HIMSELF by the leash attached to the hook, Butch removes the ball gag, then silently makes his way through the red curtains.
BUTCH: Hey hillbilly.
BUTCH: You want that gun, Zed? Pick it up.
KABOOM!!!!: Zed is BLASTED in the groin. Down he goes, SCREAMING in AGONY. Marsellus, looking down at his whimpering rapist, EJECTS the used shotgun shell. Butch lowers the sword and hangs back. Not a word, until:
BUTCH: You okay?
MARSELLUS: Naw man. I'm pretty fuckin' far from
BUTCH: What now?
MARSELLUS: What now? Well let me tell you what now. I'm gonna call a couple pipe- hittin' niggers, who'll go to work on homes here with a pair of pliers and a blow torch. Hear me talkin' hillbilly boy?! I ain't through with you by a damn sight. I'm gonna git Medieval on your ass.
BUTCH: I meant what now, between me and Oh, that what now? Well, let me tell ya what now between me an' you. There is no me an' you. Not no more.
MARSELLUS: Oh, that what now? Well, let me tell ya what now between me an' you. There is no me an' you. Not no more.
BUTCH: So we're cool?
MARSELLUS: Yeah man, we're cool. One thing I ask – two things I ask: Don't tell nobody about this. This shit's between me and you and the soon-to-be-livin'- agonizing-pain, Mr. Rapist here. It ain't nobody else's business. Two: leave town. Tonight. Right now. And when you're gone, stay gone. You've lost your Los Angeles privileges.
BUTCH: The two men shake hands, then hug one another.
MARSELLUS: Go on now, get your ass outta here.
MARSELLUS: ( into the phone ) Hello Mr. Wolf, it's Marsellus. Gotta bit of a situation.
BUTCH: Honey, grab your radio and your purse and let's go!
BUTCH: Fuck the bags. We'll miss our train if we don't split now.
BUTCH: We're cool. In fact, we're super- cool. But we gots to go. I'll wait for you outside.
FABIENNE: Where did you get this motorcycle?
BUTCH: ( he kick-starts it ) It's a chopper, baby, hop on.
FABIENNE: What happened to my Honda?
BUTCH: Sorry baby, I crashed the Honda.
FABIENNE: You're hurt?
BUTCH: I might've broke my nose, no biggie. Hop on.
BUTCH: Honey, we gotta hit the fuckin' road! I'm sorry, baby-love.
BUTCH: I'm sorry, baby-love.
FABIENNE: ( crying ) You were gone so long, I started to think dreadful thoughts.
BUTCH: I'm sorry I worried you, sweetie. Everything's fine. Hey, how was It was good –
FABIENNE: ( waterworks drying a little ) It was good –
BUTCH: – did you get the blueberry pancakes?
FABIENNE: No, they didn't have blueberry pancakes, I had to get buttermilk – are you sure you're okay?
BUTCH: Baby-love, from the moment I left you, this has been without a doubt the single weirdest day of my entire life. Climb on an' I'll tell ya about
FABIENNE: Butch, whose motorcycle is this?
BUTCH: It's a chopper.
FABIENNE: Whose chopper is this?
BUTCH: Who's Zed?
FABIENNE: Who's Zed?
BUTCH: Zed's dead, baby, Zed's dead.
FOURTH MAN: Die. die. die. die.!
FOURTH MAN: I don't understand –
VINCENT: Why the fuck didn't you tell us about that guy in the bathroom? Slip your mind? Forget he was in there with a goddamn hand cannon?
JULES: ( to himself ) We should be fuckin' dead right now. ( pause ) Did you see that gun he fired at us? It was bigger than him.
VINCENT: We should be fuckin' dead!
JULES: We should be fuckin' dead!
VINCENT: Yeah, we were lucky.
JULES: That shit wasn't luck. That shit was somethin' else.
VINCENT: Yeah, maybe.
JULES: That was. divine intervention. You know what divine intervention is?
VINCENT: Yeah, I think so. That means God came down from Heaven and stopped the bullets.
JULES: Yeah, man, that's what is means. That's exactly what it means! God came down from Heaven and stopped the bullets.
VINCENT: I think we should be going now.
JULES: Don't do that! Don't you fuckin' do that! Don't blow this shit off! What just happened was a fuckin' Chill the fuck out, Jules, this shit Wrong, wrong, this shit doesn't just Do you wanna continue this theological discussion in the car, or at the jailhouse with the cops?
VINCENT: Chill the fuck out, Jules, this shit Wrong, wrong, this shit doesn't just Do you wanna continue this theological discussion in the car, or at the jailhouse with the cops?
JULES: Wrong, wrong, this shit doesn't just Do you wanna continue this theological discussion in the car, or at the jailhouse with the cops?
VINCENT: Do you wanna continue this theological discussion in the car, or at the jailhouse with the cops?
JULES: We should be fuckin' dead now, my friend! We just witnessed a miracle, and I want you to fuckin' acknowledge Okay man, it was a miracle, can we leave now?
VINCENT: Okay man, it was a miracle, can we leave now?
VINCENT: .Ever seen that show "COPS?" I was watchin' it once and this cop was on it who was talkin' about this time he got into this gun fight with a guy in a hallway. He unloads on this guy and he doesn't hit anything. And these guys were in a hallway. It's a freak, but it happens.
JULES: If you wanna play blind man, then go walk with a Shepherd. But me, my eyes are wide fuckin' open.
VINCENT: What the fuck does that mean?
JULES: That's it for me. For here on in, you can consider my ass retired.
VINCENT: Jesus Christ!
JULES: Don't blaspheme!
VINCENT: Goddammit, Jules –
JULES: – I said don't do that –
VINCENT: – you're fuckin' freakin' out!
JULES: I'm tellin' Marsellus today I'm While you're at it, be sure to tell 'im why.
VINCENT: While you're at it, be sure to tell 'im why.
JULES: Don't worry, I will.
VINCENT: I'll bet ya ten thousand dollars, he laughs his ass off.
JULES: I don't give a damn if he does. Marvin, what do you make of all this?
VINCENT: Marvin, what do you make of all this?
MARVIN: I don't even have an opinion.
VINCENT: C'mon, Marvin. Do you think God came down from Heaven and stopped the
JULES: What the fuck's happening?
VINCENT: I just accidentally shot Marvin in the throat.
JULES: Why the fuck did you do that?
VINCENT: I didn't mean to do it. I said it was an accident.
JULES: I've seen a lot of crazy-ass shit in my time –
VINCENT: – chill out, man, it was an accident, okay? You hit a bump or somethin' and the gun went off.
JULES: The car didn't hit no motherfuckin' Look! I didn't mean to shoot this son-ofa-bitch, the gun just went off, don't ask me how!
VINCENT: Look! I didn't mean to shoot this son-ofa-bitch, the gun just went off, don't ask me how!
JULES: Look at this mess! We're drivin' around on a city street in broad daylight –
VINCENT: – I know, I know, I wasn't thinkin' about the splatter.
JULES: Well you better be thinkin' about it now, motherfucker! We gotta get this car off the road. Cops tend to notice shit like you're driving a car drenched in fuckin' blood.
VINCENT: Can't we just take it to a friendly This is the Valley, Vincent. Marsellus don't got no friendly places in the Well, don't look at me, this is your town, Jules.
JULES: This is the Valley, Vincent. Marsellus don't got no friendly places in the Well, don't look at me, this is your town, Jules.
VINCENT: Well, don't look at me, this is your town, Jules.
VINCENT: Who ya callin'?
JULES: A buddy of mine in Toluca Lake.
VINCENT: Where's Toluca Lake.
JULES: On the other side of the hill, by Burbank Studios. If Jimmie's ass ain't home, I don't know what the fuck we're gonna go. I ain't got any other partners in 818. Jimmie! How you doin' man, it's Jules. Listen up man, me an' my homeboy are in some serious shit. We're in a car we gotta get off the road, pronto! I need to use your garage for a couple
JULES: We gotta be real fuckin' delicate with this Jimmie's situation. He's one remark away from kickin' our asses out the door.
VINCENT: If he kicks us out, whadda we do?
JULES: Well, we ain't leavin' 'til we made a couple phone calls. But I never want it to reach that pitch. Jimmie's my friend and you don't bust in your friend's house and start tellin' 'im what's what.
VINCENT: Just tell 'im not to be abusive. He kinda freaked out back there when he saw Marvin.
JULES: Put yourself in his position. It's eight o'clock in the morning. He just woke up, he wasn't prepared for this shit. Don't forget who's doin' who a favor.
VINCENT: If the price of that favor is I gotta take shit, he can stick his favor straight up his ass.
JULES: What the fuck did you just do to his I was just dryin' my hands.
VINCENT: I was just dryin' my hands.
JULES: You're supposed to wash 'em first.
VINCENT: You watched me wash 'em.
JULES: I watched you get 'em wet.
VINCENT: I washed 'em. Blood's real hard to get off. Maybe if he had some Lava, I coulda done a better job.
JULES: I used the same soap you did and when I dried my hands, the towel didn't look like a fuckin' Maxie pad. Look, fuck it, alright. Who cares? But it's shit like this that's gonna bring this situation to a boil. If he were to come in here and see that towel like that. I'm tellin' you Vincent, you best be cool. 'Cause if I gotta get in to it with Jimmie on account of you. Look, I ain't threatenin' you, I respect you an' all, just don't put me in that Jules, you ask me nice like that, no problem. He's your friend, you handle
JULES: Jules, you ask me nice like that, no problem. He's your friend, you handle
JULES: Goddamn Jimmie, this is some serious gourmet shit. Me an' Vincent woulda been satisfied with freeze-dried Tasters Choice. You spring this gourmet fuckin' shit on us. What flavor is this?
JIMMIE: Knock it off, Julie.
JULES: I'm not a cobb or corn, so you can stop butterin' me up. I don't need you to tell me how good my coffee is. I'm the one who buys it, I know how fuckin' good it is. When Bonnie goes shoppin;, she buys shit. I buy the gourmet expensive stuff 'cause when I drink it, I wanna taste it. But what's on my mind at this moment isn't the coffee in my kitchen, it's the dead nigger in my garage.
JIMMIE: I'm not a cobb or corn, so you can stop butterin' me up. I don't need you to tell me how good my coffee is. I'm the one who buys it, I know how fuckin' good it is. When Bonnie goes shoppin;, she buys shit. I buy the gourmet expensive stuff 'cause when I drink it, I wanna taste it. But what's on my mind at this moment isn't the coffee in my kitchen, it's the dead nigger in my garage.
JULES: Jimmie –
JIMMIE: – I'm talkin'. Now let me ask you a question, Jules. When you drove in here, did you notice a sign out front that said, "Dead nigger storage?"
JIMMIE: – answer to question. Did you see a sign out in front of my house that said, "Dead nigger storage?"
JULES: ( playing along ) Naw man, I didn't.
JIMMIE: You know why you didn't see that 'Cause storin' dead niggers ain't my fuckin' business!
JULES: 'Cause storin' dead niggers ain't my fuckin' business!
JIMMIE: 'Cause storin' dead niggers ain't my fuckin' business!
JIMMIE: – I ain't through! Now don't you understand that if Bonnie comes home and finds a dead body in her house, I'm gonna get divorced. No marriage counselor, no trial separation – fuckin' divorced. And I don't wanna get fuckin' divorced. The last time me an' Bonnie talked about this shit was gonna be the last time me an' Bonnie talked about this shit. Now I wanna help ya out Julie, I really do. But I ain't gonna lose my wife doin' it.
JULES: Jimmie –
JIMMIE: – don't fuckin' Jimmie me, man, I can't be Jimmied. There's nothin' you can say that's gonna make me forget I love my wife. Now she's workin' the graveyard shift at the hospital. She'll be comin' home in less than an hour and a half. Make your phone calls, talk to your people, than get the fuck out of my house.
JULES: That's all we want. We don't wanna fuck up your shit. We just need to call our people to bring us in.
JIMMIE: Then I suggest you get to it. Phone's in my bedroom.
MARSELLUS: .well, say she comes home. Whaddya think she'll do? No fuckin' shit she'll freak. That ain't no kinda answer. You know 'er, I don't. How bad, a lot or a little?
JULES: You got to appreciate what an explosive element this Bonnie situation is. If she comes home from a hard day's work and finds a bunch of gangsters doin' a bunch of gangsta' shit in her kitchen, ain't no tellin' what she's apt to do.
MARSELLUS: I've grasped that, Jules. All I'm doin' is contemplating the "ifs."
JULES: I don't wanna hear about no motherfuckin' "ifs."What I wanna hear from your ass is: "you ain't got no problems, Jules. I'm on the motherfucker. Go back in there, chill them niggers out and wait for the cavalry, which should be comin' You ain't got no problems, Jules. I'm on the motherfucker. Go back in there, chill them niggers out and wait for The Wolf, who should be comin' directly.
MARSELLUS: You ain't got no problems, Jules. I'm on the motherfucker. Go back in there, chill them niggers out and wait for The Wolf, who should be comin' directly.
JULES: You sendin' The Wolf?
MARSELLUS: Feel better?
JULES: Shit Negro, that's all you had to
THE WOLF: ( into phone ) Is she the hysterical type? ( pause ) When she due? ( jotting down ) Give me the principals' names again? ( jots down ) "1265 Riverside Drive Toluca Lake 1 body ( no head ) Bloody shot-up car Jules ( black )"
THE WOLF: .Vincent. Jimmie. Bonnie.
THE WOLF: Expect a call around 10:30. It's about thirty minutes away. I'll be there in ten.
THE WOLF: You're Jimmie, right? This is your I'm Winston Wolf, I solve problems.
JIMMIE: THE WOLF ( stick his hand out )
THE WOLF: ( stick his hand out ) I'm Winston Wolf, I solve problems.
JIMMIE: Good, 'cause we got one.
THE WOLF: So I heard. May I come in?
JIMMIE: Please do.
THE WOLF: You must be Jules, which would make you Vincent. Let's get down to brass tacks, gentlemen. If I was informed correctly, the clock is ticking, is that right, Jimmie?
JIMMIE: THE WOLF ( refers to his pad )
THE WOLF: Your wife, Bonnie. .comes home at 9:30 in the AM, is that correct?
JIMMIE: THE WOLF
THE WOLF: I was led to believe if she comes home and finds us here, she wouldn't appreciate it none too much.
JIMMIE: She won't at that.
THE WOLF: That gives us forty minutes to get the fuck outta Dodge, which, if you do what I say when I say it, should by plenty. Now you got a corpse in a car, minus a head, in a garage. Take me to it.
THE WOLF: THE WOLF
JIMMIE: THE WOLF
THE WOLF: Do me a favor, will ya? Thought I smelled some coffee in there. Would you make me a cup?
JIMMIE: Sure, how do you take it?
THE WOLF: Lotsa cream, lotsa sugar.
THE WOLF: About the car, is there anything I need to know? Does it stall, does it make a lot of noise, does it smoke, is there gas in it, anything?
JULES: Aside from how it looks, the car's Positive? Don't get me out on the road and I find out the brake lights don't work.
THE WOLF: Positive? Don't get me out on the road and I find out the brake lights don't work.
JULES: Hey man, as far as I know, the motherfucker's tip-top.
THE WOLF: Good enough, let's go back to the
THE WOLF: Thank you, Jimmie.
THE WOLF: Okay first thing, you two. Take the body, stick it in the trunk. Now Jimmie, this looks to be a pretty domesticated house. That would lead me to believe that in the garage or under the sink, you got a bunch of cleansers and cleaners and shit like that, am I correct?
JIMMIE: Yeah. Exactly. Under the sink.
THE WOLF: Good. What I need you two fellas to do is take those cleaning products and clean the inside of the car. And I'm talkin' fast, fast, fast. You need to go in the backseat, scoop up all those little pieces of brain and skull. Get it out of there. Wipe down the upholstery – now when it comes to upholstery, it don't need to be spic and span, you don't need to eat off it. Give it a good once over. What you need to take care of are the really messy parts. The pools of blood that have collected, you gotta soak that shit up. But the windows are a different story. Them you really clean. Get the Windex, do a good job. Now Jimmie, we need to raid your linen closet. I need blankets, I need comforters, I need quilts, I need bedspreads. The thicker the better, the darker the better. No whites, can't use 'em. We need to camouflage the interior of the car. We're gonna line the front seat and the backseat and the floor boards with quilts and blankets. If a cop stops us and starts stickin' his big snout in the car, the subterfuge won't last. But at a glance, the car will appear to be normal. Jimmie – lead the way, boys – get to work.
VINCENT: ( calling after him ) A "please" would be nice.
THE WOLF: Come again?
VINCENT: I said a "please" would be nice.
THE WOLF: Set is straight, Buster. I'm not here to say "please."I'm here to tell you want to do. And if self- preservation is an instinct you possess, you better fuckin' do it and do it quick. I'm here to help. If my help's not appreciated, lotsa luck gentlemen.
JULES: It ain't that way, Mr. Wolf. Your help is definitely appreciated.
VINCENT: I don't mean any disrespect. I just don't like people barkin' orders at If I'm curt with you, it's because time is a factor. I think fast, I talk fast, and I need you guys to act fast if you want to get out of this. So pretty please, with sugar on top, clean the fuckin' car.
THE WOLF: If I'm curt with you, it's because time is a factor. I think fast, I talk fast, and I need you guys to act fast if you want to get out of this. So pretty please, with sugar on top, clean the fuckin' car.
THE WOLF: ( into phone ) It's a 1974 Chevy Nova. ( pause ) ( pause ) Nothin', except for the mess inside. ( pause ) About twenty minutes. ( pause ) Nobody who'll be missed. ( pause ) You're a good man, Joe. See ya soon. ( he looks at Jimmie ) How we comin', Jimmie?
JIMMIE: Mr. Wolf, you gotta understand somethin' –
THE WOLF: – Winston, Jimmie – please, Winston.
JIMMIE: You gotta understand something, Winston. I want to help you guys out and all, but that's my best linen. It was a wedding present from my Uncle Conrad and Aunt Ginny, and they ain't with us anymore –
THE WOLF: – let me ask you a question, if you don't mind?
JIMMIE: THE WOLF THE WOLF ( takes out a roll of bills )
THE WOLF: Were you Uncle Conrad and Aunt Ginny Well, your Uncle Marsellus is. And I'm positive if Uncle Conrad and Aunt Ginny were millionaires, they would've furnished you with a whole bedroom set, which your Uncle Marsellus is more than happy to do. I like oak myself, that's what's in my bedroom. How 'bout you Jimmie, you an oak man?
JIMMIE: THE WOLF ( takes out a roll of bills )
THE WOLF: Well, your Uncle Marsellus is. And I'm positive if Uncle Conrad and Aunt Ginny were millionaires, they would've furnished you with a whole bedroom set, which your Uncle Marsellus is more than happy to do. I like oak myself, that's what's in my bedroom. How 'bout you Jimmie, you an oak man?
JIMMIE: Oak's nice.
JULES: I will never forgive your ass for this shit. This is some fucked-up repugnant shit!
VINCENT: Did you ever hear the philosophy that once a man admits he's wrong, he's immediately forgiven for all Man, get outta my face with that shit! The motherfucker who said that never had to pick up itty-bitty pieces of skull with his fingers on account of your dumb ass.
JULES: Man, get outta my face with that shit! The motherfucker who said that never had to pick up itty-bitty pieces of skull with his fingers on account of your dumb ass.
VINCENT: I got a threshold, Jules. I got a threshold for the abuse I'll take. And you're crossin' it. I'm a race car and you got me in the red. Redline 7000, that's where you are. Just know, it's fuckin' dangerous to be drivin' a race car when it's in the red. It could blow.
JULES: You're gettin' ready to blow? I'm a mushroom-cloud-layin' motherfucker! Every time my fingers touch brain I'm "SUPERFLY T.N.T," I'm the "GUNS OF NAVARONE." I'm what Jimmie Walker usta talk about. In fact, what the fuck am I doin' in the back? You're the motherfucker should be on brain detail. We're tradin'. I'm washin' windows and you're pickin' up this nigger's skull.
THE WOLF: Fine job, gentlemen. We may get out of this yet.
JIMMIE: I can't believe that's the same car.
THE WOLF: Well, let's not start suckin' each other's dicks quite yet. Phase one is complete, clean the car, which moves us right along to phase two, clean you two.
THE WOLF: All the way?
VINCENT: All the way?
THE WOLF: To your bare ass.
THE WOLF: Quickly gentlemen, we got about fifteen minutes before Jimmie's better- half comes pulling into the driveway.
JULES: This morning air is some chilly shit.
VINCENT: Are you sure this is absolutely You know what you two look like?
THE WOLF: You know what you two look like?
VINCENT: THE WOLF
THE WOLF: Like a couple of guys who just blew off somebody's head. Yes, strippin' off those bloody rags is absolutely necessary. Toss the clothes in Jim's garbage bag.
JULES: Now Jimmie, don't do nothin' stupid like puttin' that out in front of your house for Elmo the garbage man to take away.
THE WOLF: Don't worry, we're takin' it with us. Jim, the soap.
THE WOLF: Okay gentlemen, you're both been to County before, I'm sure. Here it
JULES: Goddamn, that water's fuckin' cold!
THE WOLF: Better you than me, gentlemen.
THE WOLF: Don't be afraid of the soap, spread it around.
THE WOLF: Towel 'em.
THE WOLF: You're dry enough, give 'em their
THE WOLF: Perfect. Perfect. We couldn't've planned this better. You guys look like. what do they look like, Dorks. They look like a couple of
JIMMIE: Dorks. They look like a couple of
JULES: Ha ha ha. They're your clothes, I guess you just gotta know how to wear them.
JIMMIE: I guess you just gotta know how to wear them.
JULES: Yeah, well, our asses ain't the expert on wearin' dorky shit that your is.
THE WOLF: C'mon, gentlemen, we're laughin' and jokin' our way into prison. Don't make me beg.
THE WOLF: Gentlemen, let's get our rules of the road straight. We're going to a place called Monster Joe's Truck and Tow. Monster Joe and his daughter Raquel are sympathetic to out dilemma. The place is North Hollywood, so a few twist and turns aside, we'll be goin' up Hollywood Way. Now I'll drive the tainted car. Jules, you ride with me. Vincent, you follow in my Porsche. Now if we cross the path of any John Q. Laws, nobody does a fuckin' thing 'til I do What did I say?
JULES: Don't do shit unless –
THE WOLF: – unless what?
JULES: Unless you do it first.
THE WOLF: Spoken like a true prodigy. How 'bout you, Lash Larue? Can you keep your spurs from jingling and I'm cool, Mr. Wolf. My gun just went off, I dunno how.
VINCENT: I'm cool, Mr. Wolf. My gun just went off, I dunno how.
THE WOLF: Fair enough. I drive real fuckin' fast, so keep up. If I get my car back any different than I gave it, Monster Joe's gonna be disposing of two bodies.
JULES: We cool?
WINSTON: Like it never happened.
WINSTON: Boys, this is Raquel. Someday, all this will be hers.
RAQUEL: ( to the boys ) Hi. You know, if they ever do "I SPY: THE MOTION PICTURE," you guys, I'd be great. What's with the outfits. You guys going to a volleyball game?
WINSTON: I'm takin' m'lady out to breakfast. Maybe I can drop you two off. Where do you live?
VINCENT: Redondo Beach.
JULES: Winston grabs Jules' wrist and pantomimes like he's in a "DEAD ZONE" trance.
WINSTON: ( painfully ) It's your future: I see. a cab ( dropping the act ) Sorry guys, move out of the sticks. ( to Raquel ) Say goodbye, Raquel.
RAQUEL: Goodbye, Raquel.
WINSTON: I'll see you two around, and stay outta trouble, you crazy kids.
JULES: Mr. Wolf.
JULES: I was a pleasure watchin' you work.
WINSTON: Call me Winston.
WINSTON: You hear that, young lady? Respect. You could lean a lot from those two fine specimens. Respect for one's elders shows character.
RAQUEL: I have character.
WINSTON: Just because you are a character doesn't mean you have character.
RAQUEL: Oh you're so funny, oh you're so
JULES: Wanna share a cab?
VINCENT: You know I could go for some breakfast. Want to have breakfast with me?
JULES: INT. COFFEE SHOP – MORNING Jules and Vincent sit at a booth. In front of Vincent is a big stack of pancakes and sausages, which he eats with gusto. Jules, on the other hand, just has a cup of coffee and a muffin. He seems far away in thought. The Waitress pours a refill for both men,
VINCENT: Thanks a bunch. Want a sausage?
JULES: Naw, I don't eat pork.
VINCENT: Are you Jewish?
JULES: I ain't Jewish man, I just don't dig on swine.
VINCENT: Why not?
JULES: They're filthy animals. I don't eat filthy animals.
VINCENT: Sausages taste good. Pork chops taste A sewer rat may taste like pumpkin pie. I'll never know 'cause even if it did, I wouldn't eat the filthy motherfucker. Pigs sleep and root in shit. That's a filthy animal. I don't wanna eat nothin' that ain't got enough sense to disregard its own How about dogs? Dogs eat their own I don't eat dog either.
JULES: A sewer rat may taste like pumpkin pie. I'll never know 'cause even if it did, I wouldn't eat the filthy motherfucker. Pigs sleep and root in shit. That's a filthy animal. I don't wanna eat nothin' that ain't got enough sense to disregard its own How about dogs? Dogs eat their own I don't eat dog either.
VINCENT: How about dogs? Dogs eat their own I don't eat dog either.
JULES: I don't eat dog either.
VINCENT: Yes, but do you consider a dog to be a filthy animal?
JULES: I wouldn't go so far as to call a dog filthy, but they're definitely dirty. But a dog's got personality. And personality goes a long way.
VINCENT: So by that rationale, if a pig had a better personality, he's cease to be a filthy animal?
JULES: We'd have to be talkin' 'bout one motherfuckin' charmin' pig. It'd have to be the Cary Grant of pigs.
VINCENT: Good for you. Lighten up a little. You been sittin' there all quiet.
JULES: I just been sittin' here thinkin'.
VINCENT: ( mouthful of food ) About what?
JULES: The miracle we witnessed.
VINCENT: The miracle you witnessed. I witnessed a freak occurrence.
JULES: Do you know that a miracle is?
VINCENT: An act of God.
JULES: What's an act of God?
VINCENT: I guess it's when God makes the impossible possible. And I'm sorry Jules, but I don't think what happened this morning qualifies.
JULES: Don't you see, Vince, that shit don't matter. You're judging this thing the wrong way. It's not about what. It could be God stopped the bullets, he changed Coke into Pepsi, he found my fuckin' car keys. You don't judge shit like this based on merit. Whether or not what we experienced was an according-to-Hoyle miracle is insignificant. What is significant is I felt God's touch, God got But why?
VINCENT: But why?
JULES: That's what's fuckin' wit' me! I don't know why. But I can't go back to sleep.
VINCENT: So you're serious, you're really gonna quit?
JULES: The life, most definitely.
PATRON: Garcon! Coffee!
VINCENT: So if you're quitting the life, what'll you do?
JULES: That's what I've been sitting here contemplating. First, I'm gonna deliver this case to Marsellus. Then, basically, I'm gonna walk the earth.
VINCENT: What do you mean, walk the earth?
JULES: You know, like Caine in "KUNG FU." Just walk from town to town, meet people, get in adventures.
VINCENT: How long do you intend to walk the Until God puts me where he want me to be.
JULES: Until God puts me where he want me to be.
VINCENT: What if he never does?
JULES: If it takes forever, I'll wait So you decided to be a bum?
VINCENT: So you decided to be a bum?
JULES: I'll just be Jules, Vincent – no more, no less.
VINCENT: No Jules, you're gonna be like those pieces of shit out there who beg for change. They walk around like a bunch of fuckin' zombies, they sleep in garbage bins, they eat what I throw away, and dogs piss on 'em. They got a word for 'em, they're called bums. And without a job, residence, or legal tender, that's what you're gonna be – a fuckin' bum!
JULES: Look my friend, this is just where me and you differ –
VINCENT: – what happened was peculiar – no doubt about it – but it wasn't water into wine.
JULES: All shapes and sizes, Vince.
VINCENT: Stop fuckin' talkin' like that!
JULES: If you find my answers frightening, Vincent, you should cease askin' scary questions.
VINCENT: I gotta take a shit. To be continued.
PUMPKIN: Everybody be cool, this is a robbery!
HONEY BUNNY: Any of you fuckin' pricks move and I'll execute every one of you motherfuckers! Got that?!
PUMPKIN: Customers stay seated, waitresses on the floor.
HONEY BUNNY: Now mean fuckin' now! Do it or die, do it or fucking die! You Mexicans in the kitchen, get out here! Asta luego!
PUMPKIN: You Mexicans in the kitchen, get out here! Asta luego!
PUMPKIN: On the floor or I'll cook you ass,
MANAGER: I'm the manager here, there's no problem, no problem at all –
PUMPKIN: You're gonna give me a problem?
PUMPKIN: What? You said you're gonna give me a problem?
MANAGER: No, I'm not. I'm not gonna give you any problem!
PUMPKIN: I don't know, Honey Bunny. He looks like the hero type to me!
HONEY BUNNY: Don't take any chances. Execute him!
MANAGER: Please don't! I'm not a hero. I'm just a coffee shop manager. Take anything you want.
PUMPKIN: Tell everyone to cooperate and it'll be all over.
MANAGER: Everybody just be calm and cooperate with them and this will be all over Well done, now git your fuckin' ass on the ground.
PUMPKIN: Well done, now git your fuckin' ass on the ground.
PUMPKIN: Okay people, I'm going to go 'round and collect your wallets. Don't talk, just toss 'em in the bag. We clear?
PUMPKIN: In the bag.
PUMPKIN: What's in that?
JULES: My boss' dirty laundry.
PUMPKIN: You boss makes you do his laundry?
JULES: When he wants it clean.
PUMPKIN: Sounds like a shit job.
JULES: Funny, I've been thinkin' the same Open it up.
PUMPKIN: Open it up.
JULES: 'Fraid I can't do that. I didn't hear you.
PUMPKIN: I didn't hear you.
JULES: Yes, you did.
HONEY BUNNY: What's goin' on?
PUMPKIN: Looks like we got a vigilante in our Shoot 'em in the face!
HONEY BUNNY: Shoot 'em in the face!
JULES: I don't mean to shatter your ego, but this ain't the first time I've had gun pointed at me.
PUMPKIN: You don't open up that case, it's gonna be the last.
MANAGER: ( on the ground ) Quit causing problems, you'll get us all killed! Give 'em what you got and get 'em out of here.
JULES: Keep your fuckin' mouth closed, fat man, this ain't any of your goddamn I'm countin' to three, and if your hand ain't off that case, I'm gonna unload right in your fuckin' face. Clear? One.
PUMPKIN: I'm countin' to three, and if your hand ain't off that case, I'm gonna unload right in your fuckin' face. Clear? One.
PUMPKIN: .two. three.
JULES: You win.
JULES: It's all yours, Ringo.
PUMPKIN: Open it.
HONEY BUNNY: What is it? What is it?
PUMPKIN: ( softly ) Is that what I think it is?
PUMPKIN: It's beautiful.
HONEY BUNNY: Goddammit, what is it?
HONEY BUNNY: Let him go! Let him go! I'll blow your fuckin' head off! I'll kill ya! I'll kill ya! You're gonna die, you're gonna fuckin' die bad!
JULES: ( to Pumpkin ) Tell that bitch to be cool! Say, bitch be cool! Say, bitch be cool!
PUMPKIN: Chill out, honey!
HONEY BUNNY: Let him go!
JULES: ( softly ) Tell her it's gonna be okay.
PUMPKIN: I'm gonna be okay.
JULES: Promise her.
PUMPKIN: I promise.
JULES: Tell her to chill.
PUMPKIN: Just chill out.
JULES: What's her name?
PUMPKIN: Whenever Jules talks to Yolanda, he never looks at her, only at Pumpkin.
JULES: ( to Yolanda ) So, we cool Yolanda? We ain't gonna do anything stupid, are we?
YOLANDA: ( crying ) Don't you hurt him.
JULES: Nobody's gonna hurt anybody. We're gonna be like three Fonzies. And what' Fonzie like?
JULES: C'mon Yolanda, what's Fonzie like?
YOLANDA: ( through tears, unsure ) He's cool?
JULES: Correct-amundo! And that's what we're gonna be, we're gonna be cool. Now Ringo, I'm gonna count to three and I want you to let go your gun and lay your palms flat on the table. But when you do it, do it cool. Ready?
JULES: One. two. three.
YOLANDA: Okay, now let him go!
JULES: Yolanda, I thought you were gonna be cool. When you yell at me, it makes me nervous. When I get nervous, I get scared. And when motherfuckers get scared, that's when motherfuckers get accidentally shot.
YOLANDA: ( more conversational ) Just know: you hurt him, you die.
JULES: That seems to be the situation. Now I don't want that and you don't want that and Ringo here don't want that. So let's see what we can do. Now this is the situation. Normally both of your asses would be dead as fuckin' fried chicken. But you happened to pull this shit while I'm in a transitional period. I don't wanna kill ya, I want to help ya. But I'm afraid I can't give you the case. It don't belong to me. Besides, I went through too much shit this morning on account of this case to just hand it over to your ass.
JULES: It's cool, Vincent! It's cool! Don't do a goddamn thing. Yolanda, it's cool baby, nothin's changed. We're still just talkin'. Tell her we're still cool.
PUMPKIN: It's cool, Honey Bunny, we're still What the hell's goin' on, Jules?
VINCENT: ( gun raised ) What the hell's goin' on, Jules?
JULES: Nothin' I can't handle. I want you to just hang back and don't do shit unless it's absolutely necessary.
VINCENT: Yolanda, how we doin, baby?
JULES: Yolanda, how we doin, baby?
YOLANDA: I gotta go pee! I want to go home.
JULES: Just hang in there, baby, you're doing' great, Ringo's proud of you and so am I. It's almost over. Now I want you to go in that bag and find my wallet.
PUMPKIN: Which one is it?
JULES: It's the one that says Bad Motherfucker on it.
JULES: That's my bad motherfucker. Now open it up and take out the cash. How much is there?
PUMPKIN: About fifteen hundred dollars.
JULES: Put it in your pocket, it's yours. Now with the rest of them wallets and the register, that makes this a pretty successful little score.
VINCENT: Jules, if you give this nimrod fifteen hundred buck, I'm gonna shoot 'em on general principle.
JULES: You ain't gonna do a goddamn thing, now hang back and shut the fuck up. Besides, I ain't givin' it to him. I'm buyin' somethin' for my money. Wanna know what I'm buyin' Ringo?
PUMPKIN: Your life. I'm givin' you that money so I don't hafta kill your ass. You read the Bible?
JULES: Your life. I'm givin' you that money so I don't hafta kill your ass. You read the Bible?
PUMPKIN: Not regularly.
JULES: There's a passage I got memorized. Ezekiel 25:17. "The path of the righteous man is beset on all sides by the inequities of the selfish and the tyranny of evil men. Blessed is he who, in the name of charity and good will, shepherds the weak through the valley of the darkness. For he is truly his brother's keeper and the finder of lost children. And I will strike down upon thee with great vengeance and furious anger those who attempt to poison and destroy my brothers. And you will know I am the Lord when I lay my vengeance upon you." I been sayin' that shit for years. And if you ever heard it, it meant your ass. I never really questioned what it meant. I thought it was just a coldblooded thing to say to a motherfucker 'fore you popped a cap in his ass. But I saw some shit this mornin' made me think twice. Now I'm thinkin', it could mean you're the evil man. And I'm the righteous man. And Mr. .45 here, he's the shepherd protecting my righteous ass in the valley of darkness. Or is could by you're the righteous man and I'm the shepherd and it's the world that's evil and selfish. I'd like that. But that shit ain't the truth. The truth is you're the weak. And I'm the tyranny of evil men. But I'm tryin'. I'm tryin' real hard to be a shepherd.
JULES: ( to himself ) It's cold.
VINCENT: I think we oughta leave now.
JULES: That's probably a good idea.
FADE OUT: THE END
THE END: Writers : Quentin Tarantino Roger Avary
