PRINCE: ( over )
PRINCE: ( con't )
PRINCE: ( con't )
PRINCE: ( con't )
MORRIS: ( awed )
MORRIS: We're going to slay him. ( screams ) "Let's Get Crazy" continues as we.
CHICK: I have an appointment with the No you don't he doesn't see Suddenly a FIGHT breaks out at the INSIDE MONEY WINDOW. Chick spins instantly, SLAMS the door but Vanity jams her boot into the narrow space. The door crashes against her instep, she winces in pain but Chick doesn't notice. He's already upon the OFFENDERS, heaving them against the Vanity streaks inside, blazes up the stairway, ducks behind a GROUP of
VANITY: I have an appointment with the No you don't he doesn't see Suddenly a FIGHT breaks out at the INSIDE MONEY WINDOW. Chick spins instantly, SLAMS the door but Vanity jams her boot into the narrow space. The door crashes against her instep, she winces in pain but Chick doesn't notice. He's already upon the OFFENDERS, heaving them against the Vanity streaks inside, blazes up the stairway, ducks behind a GROUP of
CHICK: No you don't he doesn't see Suddenly a FIGHT breaks out at the INSIDE MONEY WINDOW. Chick spins instantly, SLAMS the door but Vanity jams her boot into the narrow space. The door crashes against her instep, she winces in pain but Chick doesn't notice. He's already upon the OFFENDERS, heaving them against the Vanity streaks inside, blazes up the stairway, ducks behind a GROUP of
JILL: What are you retarded or something?! Why don't you look where you're going? She's 18 years old, blonde and pretty in a cute, innocent way. A Daisy Mae-type whose emotions form so quickly, she has trouble sorting them out. Right now she's mad as hell she thinks
VANITY: Sorry . where's the office? Jill squats, picks up the broken glasses-
JILL: Do you think you can just come in here and take over?
VANITY: I said I'm sorry what do you want me to do? Where's the office? Jill points Vanity hurries away
JILL: ( triumphantly ) No one's in! Vanity stops dead in her tracks, does a slow burn. She walks back to Jill
VANITY: Okay, so you got me back, fine. Listen, I'm from out of town. I have to see the manager, it's important. I'm a real good singer and dancer. I know he could use me.
JILL: Do you have any experience? Vanity simmers, enunciates every word
VANITY: Follow me. And she turns on her heels, makes her way through the club, moving into the vicinity of the stage. Vanity follows her reluctantly, casts a look to the band. She spots Prince for the first time stops instantly. His effect on her is instantaneous. Passion surges through her like a tidal wave. His hair, face, eyes it all conspires to make her weak. It's like meeting someone for the first time, but seeing so much of yourself in them, that their lips, eyes, mouth you're certain you have touched, and the desire to be with them becomes so strong that the very act of touching will release you in a way you never thought Prince brines "Let's Get Crazy" to a rousing, blistering end. Suddenly the stage is plunged into darkness. The CROWD goes WILD! .Vanity snaps out of it. Jill is tugging at her arm, a puzzled look on her face
JILL: Follow me. And she turns on her heels, makes her way through the club, moving into the vicinity of the stage. Vanity follows her reluctantly, casts a look to the band. She spots Prince for the first time stops instantly. His effect on her is instantaneous. Passion surges through her like a tidal wave. His hair, face, eyes it all conspires to make her weak. It's like meeting someone for the first time, but seeing so much of yourself in them, that their lips, eyes, mouth you're certain you have touched, and the desire to be with them becomes so strong that the very act of touching will release you in a way you never thought Prince brines "Let's Get Crazy" to a rousing, blistering end. Suddenly the stage is plunged into darkness. The CROWD goes WILD! .Vanity snaps out of it. Jill is tugging at her arm, a puzzled look on her face
JILL: Here, fill this out I'll have him call you.
VANITY: I don't have a phone. When will he be back?
JILL: Well.you can try tomorrow.
VANITY: You can count on it. Vanity hands the card back to her Jill reads the name, address looks up as Morris and The Time pass Prince on their way to the stage
JILL: as Morris and The Time pass Prince on their way to the stage
BACKSTAGE: as Morris and The Time pass Prince on their way to the stage
MORRIS: Why don't you stay awhile, see how it's done. The Band Members bust up but Prince ignores them, then
MC: Ladies and gentlemen please welcome The Time.
CLUB: Sudden APPLAUSE and CRIES. Vanity and Jill turn directly into the path of Prince, descending the Steps of the stage. Vanity gasps, LOCKS eyes with him. Jill seems to jump out of her skin it's obvious she has a crush on him something awful
JILL: Hi ya, Prince God I liked that song, it's real fun. She fidgets uncontrollably, Vanity's card buring a hole into her hand. Prince glances at the card, then stares at Vanity, the ripeness of her look paralyzing. He tears his eyes away, puts on his sunglesses, looks toward the ( 18A ) INT. CLUB NEAR STAGE NIGHT MORRIS and The Time rip into a funk tune called "Jungle Love." Their stranglehold on the audience is instantaneous. Morris struts across the stage like a panther, playing to the audience with a relish. His eyes fastened on Prince his pride umistakable. PRINCE watches Morris a moment, then eyes Vanity again. The heat between them is apparent. Vanity's heart is pounding, she's not sure what to do. She keeps her eyes on Morris, hoping that a Solution will present itself. PRINCE watches as Jill tacks the card to a board behind the bar. Sizing up the situation quickly, he again glances at Vanity but her eyes are fastened on Morris. Feeling terribly shy and thinking there's nothing he can do to divert her attention away from him, he reluctantly heads for the front door. Vanity finally hits upon something to say, turns
VANITY: I really liked your song But he's gone. Her eyes scan the room frantically catches a glimpse of him leaving. She takes a sudden step, then stops, paralyzed with indecision. Jill regards ger coldly. MORRIS meanwhile is beside himself. Some gorgeous, dark-haired babe, eyes wide as saucers was starlng at him from the bar. Prince has left, and this girl is his. He motions to Jerome, and they direct their act in her direction. JILL gazes at Vanity, fidgets intensely, suspicious and resentful of her. She glances up and notices Morris, look. She seizes upon an idea, forces a friendly smile, taps Vanity on the Hey . She points to the stage. Vanity looks at Morris, and he goes crazy, entertaining her with his own special blend of showmanship. The CROWD loves it! Vanity is held a moment, but her thouchts are elsewhere. She finally comes to a decision, pulls away, cuts through the club.
JILL: Hey . She points to the stage. Vanity looks at Morris, and he goes crazy, entertaining her with his own special blend of showmanship. The CROWD loves it! Vanity is held a moment, but her thouchts are elsewhere. She finally comes to a decision, pulls away, cuts through the club.
VANITY: Hey wait! But Prince is too far away, the traffic too coneested for him to hear. He whips down the street, disappears around the Vanity continues running, then slows, dejection overcoming her in waves. She looks around KIDS are staring at her, passing jokes. Embarrassed, She moves to the front door but Chick is there, his eyes upon her cold, impassionate. Exhausted and slighlty tearlul, she cuts across the street, heads back to her ( 20 ) EXT. PRINCE'S HOUSE NIGHT Prince WHIPS down the street, cuts his motor, coasts up the drive. He comes to a stop against a wooden gate. His house is a nondescript, one-family structure with a wide front porch. He lives in a neat and tidy, homogeneous, lower middle- class neighborhood whose occupants are hard-working type fiercely protective of their privacy. He climbs the steps to the porch, opens the front door. .his mothers SCREAM is like ice in his veins. Fear trickles into the hollows of his body like cold water, His pain commands him to move, but the impulse short circuits somewhere at the waist, leaving his legs twitching uncontrollably. Then another SCREAM from his mother, and his father's voice now, LOUD and FURIOUS
FATHER: You do what I say, do you hear me?! You've got to keep this place clean! You here, no place else!
MOTHER: You're crazy!
WHACK!: The Father lunges, WHACKS! her across the face. She topples to the floor, a lamp CRASHES to the ground. Prince cuts through the room, lunges desperately in front of him
MOTHER: The Father lunges, WHACKS! her across the face. She topples to the floor, a lamp CRASHES to the ground. Prince cuts through the room, lunges desperately in front of him
WHACK!: The Father lunges, WHACKS! her across the face. She topples to the floor, a lamp CRASHES to the ground. Prince cuts through the room, lunges desperately in front of him
MOTHER: The Father lunges, WHACKS! her across the face. She topples to the floor, a lamp CRASHES to the ground. Prince cuts through the room, lunges desperately in front of him
PRINCE: ( pleading ) Please, Dad.she's heard you. She's had enough! His Mother drags herself up along the ( hysterical ) He's trying to kill me! He's crazy! Look what he's doing to me!
MOTHER: ( hysterical ) He's trying to kill me! He's crazy! Look what he's doing to me!
PRINCE: ( tearfully ) Dad, please . she's WHACK! Prince's head snaps back, his feet lift from the floor, his body CRASHES in a heap by the door. Stunned SILENCE. Prince, flat on his back, fights vertigo with everything he's got. His Mother lets out a YELP, rushes into the bedroom, SLAMS the door. His Father stands motionless, sullen
FATHER: Get up.you ain't hurt. Prince opens his Mouth, BLOOD gushes from a gash in his tongue. He hoists himself up slowly, using the wall for support. He moves into the kitchen, disappears down the basement steps.
PRINCE: ( surprised ) What are you doing here? She's a bundle of loose, embarrassing ends the cigarette, hat, juice
JILL: What.what are you doing He feels caught out SCANS the BOARD earnestly for Vanity's info tries to think of something to say
PRINCE: Huh . it's kind of dead in here. Where is everybody?
JILL: In bed I guess. ( to herself ) Oh, God . ( changes subject ) Guess what, I bought a dog.
PRINCE: That's nice. ( he spots vanity's card ) Ah, I guess I'll come back at a better time. You think tonight the the place'll be Well, I'll be here I always like what you do. He smiles, moves to the door Jill connects with a thought
JILL: Well, I'll be here I always like what you do. He smiles, moves to the door Jill connects with a thought
JILL: Wait! I've got something for What? A subpoena?
PRINCE: What? A subpoena?
JILL: ( embarrassed ) She rumages through her bag, pulls out a It's a song Lisa and Wendy He stiffens, doesn't reach for it
JILL: It's a song Lisa and Wendy He stiffens, doesn't reach for it
PRINCE: ( suspicious ) Why didn't they give it to me Well, I liked it and wanted to listen to it. They told me to give it to you when I was He puts his sunglasses on, hesitates, then takes it from her gingerly. He regards it for a long time
JILL: Well, I liked it and wanted to listen to it. They told me to give it to you when I was He puts his sunglasses on, hesitates, then takes it from her gingerly. He regards it for a long time
PRINCE: You really liked it, huh?
MORRIS: One, two, three, kick! One, two, three, kick! Four, five.Oh, Lord. Cut! Cut! The MUSIC stops, the girls come to a halt Morris regards them evenly
MORRIS: You ladies don't seem to realize how valuable my time is. You're going to make my boys look bad.
BRENDA: Why don't you let us come up with our own steps? Morris glares at her
MORRIS: We tried that. ( sweetly ) . remember? The Girls fidget
MORRIS: Now you're in the best possible position you can be in, so what' s the matter your shoes on too tight or ( claps his hands ) Let's have some action, let's have some asses wiggling, I want some perfection. Whawhak! The MUSIC starts up the Girls start dancing. Morris looks woefully to I think I'm going to need a drink, a strong drink. ( a beat ) Let's get the hell out of ( 25 ) EXT. STREETS AND ALLEY DOWNTOWN DAY Morris and Jerome move briskIy down the This just ain't happening. The bitches are okay, but we need something more exciting-
MORRIS: I think I'm going to need a drink, a strong drink. ( a beat ) Let's get the hell out of ( 25 ) EXT. STREETS AND ALLEY DOWNTOWN DAY Morris and Jerome move briskIy down the This just ain't happening. The bitches are okay, but we need something more exciting-
MORRIS: This just ain't happening. The bitches are okay, but we need something more exciting-
JEROME: You're right. We could be doing much better. Any ideas?
MORRIS: That powder fine babe we saw last night.
JEROME: Oooh, yeee! Why don't we find out who she is? Morris snaps an address in front of his I already know that. Jill gave me everything last night. Then what are we waiting for? Let's go!
MORRIS: I already know that. Jill gave me everything last night. Then what are we waiting for? Let's go!
JEROME: Then what are we waiting for? Let's go!
MORRIS: No, no that ain't classy enough. I want the bitch to come to me I'm the only star in this town. Suddenly a BEAUTIFUL BABE lunges into the sidewalk from the alley
BABE: ( yelling ) Morris Day, who do you think you are?! I waited up all night for you. I'm so tired of you doing that to me. You think you're so hot? You're nothing special. This is the third time you pulled that shit. Who the fuck do you think I am?!
MORRIS: Jerome puts the girl in a headlock, DRAGS her into the alley
BABE: ( screaming ) Leave me alone you ape! What are you doing to me?! He flings her into the dumpster, SLAMS the lid with a CRASH. Morris pats his Lo-rd..! Such nastiness. ( a beat ) Hee, hee Let's break. They streak across the street, double- time it to the CADDY. A COP sweeps by, gives them a curious look. Morris puts on a dignified air, then stops, Jerome, this car it's.it's lacking something. What do you think?
MORRIS: Lo-rd..! Such nastiness. ( a beat ) Hee, hee Let's break. They streak across the street, double- time it to the CADDY. A COP sweeps by, gives them a curious look. Morris puts on a dignified air, then stops, Jerome, this car it's.it's lacking something. What do you think?
MORRIS: Jerome, this car it's.it's lacking something. What do you think?
JEROME: Hmm. I don't know.
MORRIS: I got it! The hubcaps. We need something sweeter.
JEROME: I think I know what it needs. Morris is pondering his Stacy Adams
MORRIS: Yeah . I know what these ( 26 ) INT. SHOESHINE STAND DOWNTOWN DAY Morris sits in the chair, his Stacy Adams worked on by an old, grizzled SHOESHINE BOY in his mid-sixties, with large jowls and silver close-cropped hair. Jerome stands nearby, watches ( musing ) The girl has expensive tastes. I wonder if she can sing.
MORRIS: ( musing ) The girl has expensive tastes. I wonder if she can sing.
JEROME: As fine as she is.she doesn't have to know how to ( grace ) I know that's right. ( to Shoeshine ) Hey watch it now. The Shoeshine Boy looks up balefully Morris smiles, then grits his teeth
MORRIS: ( grace ) I know that's right. ( to Shoeshine ) Hey watch it now. The Shoeshine Boy looks up balefully Morris smiles, then grits his teeth
MORRIS: I want you to stay out of the set tonight. I want you to work the floor.
JEROME: What for?
MORRIS: I want to know when that sweet thing shows up. You stay by the door, you see her, you come get me, cool?
JEROME: Cool. I come get you let you know the girl's there.
MORRIS: Well, not if I'm with my other babes. That wouldn't be cool. I don't want to break their hearts, and you know how I feel abouy that. So we ought to have like, a signal.
JEROME: A password.
MORRIS: Okay. What's the password?
JEROME: You got it.
MORRIS: Got what?
JEROME: The password.
MORRIS: The password is what?
JEROME: The password is exactly?
MORRIS: The password is exactly?
JEROME: No, it's
MORRIS: Hold it now. Slow down. The babe walks in and you see I see her.
JEROME: I see her.
MORRIS: You come get me.
JEROME: I come get you.
MORRIS: And I'll probably have a couple little sexies on the stand-by, and we don't want to upset them, do we? So you just glide by me and The password is okay?
JEROME: The password is okay?
MORRIS: The password is okay?
JEROME: Far as I'm concerned.
MORRIS: Dammit! Say the password.
JEROME: Say the password, sperm The password is what.
MORRIS: Say the password, sperm The password is what.
JEROME: The password is what.
MORRIS: ( frustrated ) That's what I'm asking you!
JEROME: ( more frustrated ) It's the password!
MORRIS: The password is it?
JEROME: ( exasperated ) Ahhhhh! The password is what!
MORRIS: It! You just said so!
JEROME: The password isn't it! The password is
MORRIS: Got it!
JEROME: Got it!
MORRIS: 1 got it?
JEROME: It or right?
MORRIS: It or right?
JEROME: ( perplexed ) The Shoeshine Boy looks up slowly regards them with a soulfull look
SHOESHINE BOY: Either of you do heavy drugs?
AFTERNOON: The SIDEWALKS are alive with bustling SHOPPERS. Vanity walks aimlessly past store windows, staring longingly at the expensive items.
BRIDAL SHOP: as she stops suddenly and stares transfixed. A YOUNG WOMAN, startingly similiar to her in looks and coloring, tries on a beautiful bridal gown as a SEAMSTRESS adjusts the hem. The entire scene is warm and endearing. Vanity is struck by lt's beauty and seems to sigh. The Young Woman looks up suddenly, catches Vanity's gaze, and gives her an affectionate smile. Vanity smiles back avidly, then
PRINCE: There . on your boot. She looks down it's the expensive gold chain. She hesitates, then hands it to him. He drops it into his pocket, walks away
VANITY: Hey, wait! She runs after him
VANITY: Give it back to mel He continues to walk briskly she starts pulling on his coat
PRINCE: You can have it back later.
VANITY: I want it back now, okay?
PRINCE: Who gave it to you?
VANITY: A person
PRINCE: Female or male?
VANITY: Huh .
PRINCE: You're lying. I can tell just by your reaction that you're He moves away briskly Vanity stands her ground, amused
PRINCE: So you gave it to me it's not yours anymore. He stops short something has caught his eye. She's curious, comes up behind him, then
VANITY: You see something you like? He puts on his sunglasses. A GUITAR stands prominently in the window.
PRINCE: Let's go for a ride. He flips her the gold chain' turns hastily. She weighs it in her hand, studies the guitar
VANITY: It's pretty.
LAKESIDE: The pull to a stop. A LAKE stretches before them. Vanity gets off the bike, walks around exploring, casting curious glances at Prince. He stands by the water, idly tossing stones
VANITY: My psychic told rne I was going to be famous.
PRINCE: How much did that cost you?
VANITY: Fifty bucks. It was a good He doesn't respond she suddenly feels No seriously My psychic did tell me. I was in a play Oh, yeah what did you play?
VANITY: No seriously My psychic did tell me. I was in a play Oh, yeah what did you play?
PRINCE: Oh, yeah what did you play?
VANITY: Isadora Duncan. She stretches her arms like a butterfly, does a little step
VANITY: That means I can sing and ( a beat ) Want to help me?
PRINCE: ( swiftly ) ( surprised ) Pardon me?
VANITY: ( surprised ) Pardon me?
PRINCE: She's Perplexed
PRINCE: Want to know why?
VANITY: ( defensively ) ( a beat ) Because you wouldn't pass the What initiation?
PRINCE: ( a beat ) Because you wouldn't pass the What initiation?
VANITY: What initiation?
PRINCE: Well, for starters ycu have to purify yourself in the waters of Lake Minnetonka.
VANITY: You have to purify yourself in Lake Minnetonka. Her brow furrows, she looks out across the lake. He's calmly throwing stones. Recognizing a challenge when she sees one, she formulates a plan, faces him seductively, shoots him an open look. He stops suddenly, locks eyes with her, feels his knees go weak. Her hold on him is unmistakable. She pulls off her blouse in one fluid motion, tugs off her boots, drops her pants to the ground. She's exquisite, takes a step toward him. Passion rings in his veins . Suddenly she turns on her heels, moves purposefully toward the water. He's shocked, realizes that she's about to go in
PRINCE: You have to purify yourself in Lake Minnetonka. Her brow furrows, she looks out across the lake. He's calmly throwing stones. Recognizing a challenge when she sees one, she formulates a plan, faces him seductively, shoots him an open look. He stops suddenly, locks eyes with her, feels his knees go weak. Her hold on him is unmistakable. She pulls off her blouse in one fluid motion, tugs off her boots, drops her pants to the ground. She's exquisite, takes a step toward him. Passion rings in his veins . Suddenly she turns on her heels, moves purposefully toward the water. He's shocked, realizes that she's about to go in
PRINCE: Hey, wait a minute! Thats But she silences him savagely
VANITY: We made a deal! And before he can react she scampers along a log, DIVES beneath the surface. He can't believe it her spirit really impresses him. She breaks the surface coughing and sputtering, hops and jumps to the shore
PRINCE: Hold it.
VANITY: That ain't Lake Minnetonka. He tries to keep a straight face, jumps on his motorcvcle, STARTS it up. His words take a moment to sink in, then
PRINCE: That ain't Lake Minnetonka. He tries to keep a straight face, jumps on his motorcvcle, STARTS it up. His words take a moment to sink in, then
VANITY: ( enraged ) You bastard. I don't believe it. How could you do that to She gathers up her clothes, tries desperately to put them on. She slips and falls Prince can't help laughing-
VANITY: Damn you I'll kill you. She starts throwing stones. He laughs, blasts up the path
VANITY: ( screaming ) You prick! Are you sick?! Is this some kind of ritual getting your kicks! How many girls have you done this to?
ACCESS ROAD: He blazes up the embankment, SAILS through the air, drops expertly onto the road. He fishtails to a slick stop. Vanity is by the lake, flailing about, throwing things, trying to get into her He laughs heartily, wants to kid her, rides down the road as if he's leaving. Having his fun, he slows, turns to go back . .his smile dissolves instantly. Vanity is in the middleof the road, flagging down a small PICKUP TRUCK. She hops in, slams the door. The truck peels out, bears down upon him. He gesticulates his arms wildly wants to explain
VANITY: He laughs heartily, wants to kid her, rides down the road as if he's leaving. Having his fun, he slows, turns to go back . .his smile dissolves instantly. Vanity is in the middleof the road, flagging down a small PICKUP TRUCK. She hops in, slams the door. The truck peels out, bears down upon him. He gesticulates his arms wildly wants to explain
PRINCE: Hey . But the truck streaks past Vanity's look is cold, triumphant.
KIM: Honey, you still chasing after that fool? Kim is 21 years and gorgeous, with dark eyes, a smooth sculpted face, and taut shapely legs. She is street-educated and doesn't need encouraging to speak her mind. Katy is also in her-early 20's, a tall, alluring Oriental, with an attractive, intelligent face
JILL: I'm doing what I'm doing. It's my business.
KATY: He doesn't even look at you. That's the last thing you want from a man.
JILL: You just don't know him like I Honey. Look, Listen, and then Feel. If you do them in any other order, you're headed for trouble. Matt and Bobby ( members of Prince's group ) stroll up
KIM: Honey. Look, Listen, and then Feel. If you do them in any other order, you're headed for trouble. Matt and Bobby ( members of Prince's group ) stroll up
BOBBY: Hey, Jill where's our They're coming just wait. Matt stares hungrily at her breasts
JILL: They're coming just wait. Matt stares hungrily at her breasts
JILL: What you want isn't on the Jill, in ten years they'll be on the table. She swats him with her order pad Bobby ducks, taunts her
BOBBY: Jill, in ten years they'll be on the table. She swats him with her order pad Bobby ducks, taunts her
BOBBY: C'mon, c'mon . She goes to swing, Matt moves in, squeezes her breasts
MATT: ( horn sound ) Get out of here, you jerks!
KIM: Get out of here, you jerks!
MATT: Sweetheart . do you have a real hot place where I could stick my nose?
KIM: Sure try a microwave. The Guys bust up, head for their tables-
KATY: Those guys are deep.
KIM: Yeah deeply retarded.
VANITY: ( sweetly ) I'm paying . see? ( to cashier, gruff ) Chick advances on her her eyes widen with fear
CHICK: The manager wants to see you.
VANITY: Really..? Oh, great.like to see him too. She breaths a sigh of relief. JEROME watches as Chick escorts Vanity to the upper level. He stays short distance behind.
CHICK: He'll be right with you. Chick walks away. Jerome makes a move toward her, but pulls himself up short - - BILLY SPARKS has approached her
BILLY SPARKS: Hi, I'm Billy Sparks, I manage this place. Vanity turns around her eyes widen with surprise He's 38 years old, 5'3" tall and weighs about 180 pounds. He's dressed in a baby-blue running suit.and white tennis shoes that come to a point. A dark- skinned, smooth-faced black man, he's wearing small, white sunglasses and a base-ball cap perched on his head. Fred Flintstone in Harlem. A hip, fast- talking jive motherfucker who uses profanity like a light saber. Chubby, cuddly, cherubic Billy Sparks. He'd sell his mother if he thought he could make a buck. They size one another up in. about three Hi I really like your club.
VANITY: Hi I really like your club.
BILLY: What time is it?
VANITY: What time is it?
BILLY: Nine, sweets.
VANITY: Oh, that's a really nice watch. Very pretty. Billy lights a cigarette, offers her one, she accepts
VANITY: You look like a guy I used to go out with he was a lot older, but I like older men.
BILLY: Really, what a coincidence.
VANITY: I just came off a Broadway play. My grandmother got Does she live here?
BILLY: Does she live here?
VANITY: No, in New York . But, huh, I have a sister here, lives in Saint . huh
BILLY: ( smiles ) What do you want to do? You don't want to be a waitress do No . no.Actually I was thinking more in the way of the stage.
VANITY: ( smiles ) What do you want to do? You don't want to be a waitress do No . no.Actually I was thinking more in the way of the stage.
BILLY: ( smiles ) What do you want to do? You don't want to be a waitress do No . no.Actually I was thinking more in the way of the stage.
VANITY: No . no.Actually I was thinking more in the way of the stage.
BILLY: Of course. how about dinner?
VANITY: Dinner, then the theatre, my Oh, huh. Jerome appears
BILLY: Dinner, then the theatre, my Oh, huh. Jerome appears
VANITY: Oh, huh. Jerome appears
JEROME: Hi ya, Billy.
BILLY: Good evening, Jerome. Vanity sees her escape
VANITY: Jerome I was looking all over for you! They BOTH look at her surprised
BILLY: You know each other?
VANITY: Of course. Jerome goes along with it
JEROME: Yes, we've met. I have something to show you.
VANITY: Great. See you later, Billy. She walks away with Jerome, arm in arm
VANITY: You rescued me.
JEROME: ( smiles ) ( 33 ) INT. DRESSING ROOM NIGHT Prince and his band ( Mark, Bobby, Matt, Lisa ) sit backstage, waiting to go on. An air of tension permeates the room. Lisa sits in the corner and fidgets, casts sidelong looks to Prince. He sits apart from the group, deathly silent, locked in thouqht. Wendy walks in and shares a look with Lisa. She goes up to Prince, her voice filled with nervousness
WENDY: Hi ya, Prince. I heard through the grapevine you had a new tune written by two great girls. By chance did you hear it? He stares at her if looks could kill Wendy would be dead
LISA: I knew it he didn't listen to it. He probably dropped it under his bike and rolled over Prince grunts, turns away Wendy is Wow! Okay.you think about this. I'm going to be real honest with you. You're really being full of shit.
WENDY: Wow! Okay.you think about this. I'm going to be real honest with you. You're really being full of shit.
LISA: Forget about it, Wendy. Let's get out of here But Wendy, agitated, silences her with a fierce gesture
WENDY: ( to Prince ) Every time we give you a song, you say you're going to use it, but you never do. You always think that we're doing something behind your back. You're just being paranoid as ( upset ) Shut up, Lisa, please! ( to Prince ) You should know by now that we wouldn't hurt vou. We're not out to put a dark cloud over your head. It's just to make you feel good, Prince that's what it's all about. You've been this way with us before, remember?
LISA: ( upset ) Shut up, Lisa, please! ( to Prince ) You should know by now that we wouldn't hurt vou. We're not out to put a dark cloud over your head. It's just to make you feel good, Prince that's what it's all about. You've been this way with us before, remember?
WENDY: ( upset ) Shut up, Lisa, please! ( to Prince ) You should know by now that we wouldn't hurt vou. We're not out to put a dark cloud over your head. It's just to make you feel good, Prince that's what it's all about. You've been this way with us before, remember?
PRINCE: ( maliciously ) The nominees for the best actress are
LISA: Fuck it, Wendy let's Wendy is shaking, tears spring to her Do you know you can really, really hurt people? Doesn't that mean anything to you? Doesn't that make you feel like shit?
WENDY: Do you know you can really, really hurt people? Doesn't that mean anything to you? Doesn't that make you feel like shit?
LISA: C'mon .
WENDY: I'm tired of this . I'm really tired. They leave the room, Wendy SLAMS the door behind her. Prince casts a look to Bobby, Mark, Matt
PRINCE: You tired, too?
MATT: God got Wendy's periods reversed. About every 28 days, she starts acting nice. Lasts about a weekend. Thud. The joke hangs suspended like a ball and chain. Bobby gets up, the others follow him to the door
BOBBY: What difference does it make, Prince. We're still a group, They cut out the door.
MARK: Headcase. Telling you.'effed up headcase.
BOBBY: People with talent usually Matt dons his surgeon's mask Mark rolls his eyes
MARK: Of course, there are a number of headcases without great talent too.
MORRIS: Honey don't you ever try and breastfeed no baby now.
GIRL: Why not?
MORRIS: Never mind . Jerome appears
JEROME: Right. What.
MORRIS: Right. What.
JEROME: Right. What.
MORRIS: You got it. Be snaps his head to the side Morris looks, sees Vanity sitting at a table. His eyes dance mischievously
JEROME: You got it. Be snaps his head to the side Morris looks, sees Vanity sitting at a table. His eyes dance mischievously
MORRIS: ( to Girl ) What time is it?
GIRL: ( coyly ) Tea time.
MORRIS: So, right.
STAGEHAND: Prince, five minutes. Be snaps off the music, drops the cassette into his pocket, cuts out the He comes to the stage-area. His Band.Members are standing about anxiously, watching the final moments of The Modern Aires' performance. He cuts behind the curtain, peers at the .his eyes fall on Vanity his face brightens instantly. Just then Jerome and Morris approach her. Prince shakes his head knowingly, offers a wry smile, then joins his band.
JEROME: Vanity, I'd like you to meet Morris E. Day.
MORRIS: Hold it now just leave the 'E' alone.
JEROME: ( clears throat ) Vanity.this is Morris Day
MORRIS: The pleasure's all mine. she offers her hand he takes it If you'd excuse me. Morris signals him whispers into his Too sexy . ( a beat ) Have a waitress bring.a bottle of their best He seats himself, fastens her with a sexy, half-lidded look
JEROME: If you'd excuse me. Morris signals him whispers into his Too sexy . ( a beat ) Have a waitress bring.a bottle of their best He seats himself, fastens her with a sexy, half-lidded look
MORRIS: Too sexy . ( a beat ) Have a waitress bring.a bottle of their best He seats himself, fastens her with a sexy, half-lidded look
MORRIS: Your lips would make a lollipop too happy.
VANITY: You think so, huh?
MORRIS: Kim appears with a bottle of champacne in ice
KIM: Who's paying for this Morris?
MORRIS: I think you know that. Jerome appears, opens the bottle with a flair, performs a classy taste test. Morris pulls out some cash, pays him, who snatches the money, leaves
MORRIS: Huh, keep the change He whispers to Jerome
MORRIS: Get my change, will ya? Jerome leaves, Morris purses his lips
MORRIS: Oh, Lord.either somebody put something in my drink, or you are the finest ( motherfucker ) I've seen in ages.
VANITY: Excuse me, what did you say?
MORRIS: Huh.you look nice tonight. He leans in, speaks with a sexy voice
MORRIS: It's rare that I out my cards on the table when it comes to meeting younq ladies, but . I'm going to make you love me.
VANITY: Is that a fact? He folds his legs dramatically, his Stacy Adams reflecting the light
MORRIS: Just as sure as my Stacy Adams are shiny. Just then
MORRIS: He doesn't like girls. She's equal to the challenge
VANITY: I know he likes women. But Morris can barely suppress a smile, and settles himself comfortably into his chair for he knows what Vanity has lost.at least this round
MORRIS: Well . he don't do too good with them either. She flashes him a quizzical look he simply smiles.
BILLY: What's this intercourse, shit?
PRINCE: Hey; man don't worry about I'm warning you. But Prince ignores him, cuts into the dressing room
BILLY: I'm warning you. But Prince ignores him, cuts into the dressing room
JILL: OOHS! and AAHS! by the entire group. Jill hesitates, then kisses Prince's cheek compulsively. He's surprised, She fidgets, her face blushes red. Wendy is studying the dog
PRINCE: Hey wait till we're married, now. She fidgets, her face blushes red. Wendy is studying the dog
WENDY: Oh, my God look at this! Everyone looks Jill grins like the Cheshire Cat
JILL: Notice anything?
PRINCE: It looks like you! She thrusts the dog into his arms the Band laughs uproariously. Jill is His hair . Prince gazes into the mirror and sure enough the dog's hair has been groomed to match his. He can't help smiling
WENDY: It looks like you! She thrusts the dog into his arms the Band laughs uproariously. Jill is His hair . Prince gazes into the mirror and sure enough the dog's hair has been groomed to match his. He can't help smiling
JILL: His hair . Prince gazes into the mirror and sure enough the dog's hair has been groomed to match his. He can't help smiling
PRINCE: Shit .
JILL: ( softly ) I wanted to cheer you up.
PRINCE: I'm hungry where's the He grabs the dog, 'a la The Werewolf, starts chomping on it's neck. The Group busts up, starts fooling around. Prince glances into the mirror Vanity is there. He whirls around to the door nothing. A huge smile sweeps his face instead. The Band continues fooling around, and Prince joins in with a relish.
MATT: I'm hungry where's the He grabs the dog, 'a la The Werewolf, starts chomping on it's neck. The Group busts up, starts fooling around. Prince glances into the mirror Vanity is there. He whirls around to the door nothing. A huge smile sweeps his face instead. The Band continues fooling around, and Prince joins in with a relish.
VANITY: He doesn't look up
PRINCE: We have to go to your place.
VANITY: What for?
PRINCE: I want to show you something. She's embarrassed by her apartment
VANITY: No.no, we can't.
PRINCE: Why is there someone there?
VANITY: Why do you always think there's somebody else? He averts his eyes kick STARTS his Let's go.
PRINCE: Let's go.
VANITY: ( Getting on ) Yeah but we're not going to my place. He remains silent, snaps the bike into gear, blasts down the ally into the ( 42 ) PRINCE'S HOUSE AND STREET NIGHT Prince and Vanity whip down a residential street. As he approaches his house he slows, moves past it He makes a deft U-turn, crosses his house again seems to be listening After a moment, he cuts down a narrow path, turns up a back alley. He rides to a wooden gate, detaches a hidden lever. The wood slats rotate like a garage door Prince coaxes his bike Vanity's mesmerized. They ride down a narrow sidewalk, cut through a garden, and emerge from the back of a garage. He leans his bike against it
BACKYARD: Vanity's mesmerized. They ride down a narrow sidewalk, cut through a garden, and emerge from the back of a garage. He leans his bike against it
VANITY: That was a grand entrance. Where am I? He silences her with a look, moves quickly across the grass, comes to a window. He stands on a pipe, looks in
VANITY: So friends of yours?
PRINCE: Yeah the freak show. He walks off. She jumps off the pipe, SIDE OF HOUSE as they emerge around the corner. Prince squats by a basement window, adjusts an old coal chute, then slides down it
VANITY: PRINCE ( O.S. )
VANITY: If you think you scared me, you didn't.
PRINCE: Oh, yeah . He puts his index finger directly in front of her nose, moves it back and forth hypnotically. She follows it earnestly with her eyes. Suddenly, he pulls his hand away, stretches it to the ceiling like an escaping bird. They both smile, lock eyes. Passion rings in their veins. The Woman's VOICE begins to moan deeply, Who's the lucky girl? Sounds like she was having a good She's crying it's backwards. It makes me sad when I hear it. It sorta sounds like she's laughing, doesn't it?
VANITY: Who's the lucky girl? Sounds like she was having a good She's crying it's backwards. It makes me sad when I hear it. It sorta sounds like she's laughing, doesn't it?
PRINCE: She's crying it's backwards. It makes me sad when I hear it. It sorta sounds like she's laughing, doesn't it?
VANITY: So what did you do to her? Do you always treat your women like that?
PRINCE: I don't have anybody right Heat floods into her womb like soft fire-
VANITY: You look pretty. She touches his chest delicately, fluffs up his hair
VANITY: King Kong?
PRINCE: She hesitates but he reaches out tentatively, touches her breast
VANITY: But their mutual desire is too strong. Their lips seek one another out timidly, almost deferentially.then fervently.
MOTHER: ( o.s. )
FATHER: ( o.s. )
VOICE: Damn, baby, hold it! Hold ( wails ) Oh, God God! You broke my She sees it's Morris she's beside herself with fear and rage
VANITY: You shit! What the hell are you doing here? He struggles in the bushes DOGS start
BARKING: Shh! Shh! Shh! oh, Lord help me outta here. ( a beat ) Hee, hee I know you wouldn't want to spend the whole night with ol' pencil Your nose alright?
MORRIS: Shh! Shh! Shh! oh, Lord help me outta here. ( a beat ) Hee, hee I know you wouldn't want to spend the whole night with ol' pencil Your nose alright?
VANITY: Your nose alright?
MORRIS: My nose is fine, I'm just wondering if I fucked my shoes ( a beat ) C'mon . They cut across the yard, head to the street. The CADDY is parked at the curb. Jerome leans against it, reading a newspaper
VANITY: Hi, Jerome. Wow! Nice He grins proudly from ear to ear the Caddy sports new chrome wire wheels
JEROME: You like them, huh?
VANITY: Morris MOANS dismally
MORRIS: Jerome.you think these can be fixed? His shoes are badly scuffed, the leather torn across the top
JEROME: I think they're dead, man.
VANITY: God, I'm sorry.
MORRIS: Shit it's so rough out Just then a PATROL CAR cruises by. The COP regards them suspiciously. Morris and Jerome snap to attention
MORRIS: You lock the door, baby? Let's go! They pile into the Caddy, pull out.
MORRIS: Jerome snaps a look in the rear-view Morris gives him a deft nod. Jerome opens the glove compartment, searches through the cassette tapes. He finds the one he wants, snaps it into the player. RESTAURANT AMBIANCE fills the car. Note: The restaurant ambiance will grow in volume, and will be followed by exaggerated dinner music, punctuated with strings and delicate cymbals. The MUSIC plays throughout this scene and Morris times his words to the ebb and flow of the piece to insure the proper dramatic effect. .dinner MUSIC begins
JEROME: Cocktails before dinner?
MORRIS: Yes two piña coladas.
VANITY: Uh.make mine a virgin.
JEROME: Jerome braces his knees against the wheel, pours two premixed coladas into plastic glasses
JEROME: ( to Morris ) Will you be having a virgin as Ye-es! For dessert!! Jerome stifles a laugh, pours a rum miniature into Morris' glass. He hands them back
MORRIS: Ye-es! For dessert!! Jerome stifles a laugh, pours a rum miniature into Morris' glass. He hands them back
MORRIS: Thank you. Here you are, They savor their drinks Morris' fervor grows by leaps and bounds
MORRIS: Jerome, uh, get your pad and pencil, I think it's gonna be kinda right. If my judge of character is correct, it's going to be about loving ( a beat ) Stop me when I get to Jerome places a pad by his side, pencil at the ready. He settles the Caddy to a cruising 55 Morris looks deeply into Vanity's eyes
MORRIS: Excuse me, baby.I bet you didn't know I had a piece of this restaurant, did you? ( a beat ) May I taste that? He takes Vanity's drink, slurps a little, burps
MORRIS: Huh, excuse me, that's kind of weak.here, try mine. She does, and begins coughing violently-
VANITY: Good God!
MORRIS: Y'know.they say that saliva is an aphrodisiac. ( a beat ) You look so lovely tonight.
VANITY: ( couching ) Why.thank you.
MORRIS: Probably you'd look better under exotic.red.liqhts. ( another though ) I wish you could see my home. It's.it's so exciting. He leans close to her, speaks in a soft, sexy voice
MORRIS: In my bedroom, I have a brass waterbed .
VANITY: I have an Italian cook, Gino Izogochograchi, or something like that. She giggles, looks at him deeply
MORRIS: I have an Italian cook, Gino Izogochograchi, or something like that. She giggles, looks at him deeply
MORRIS: It's funny.your eyes when you stare at me like that, it causes my stomach to qui- quiver. Oh, Lord. An idea flashes across his mind
MORRIS: Do you like diamonds?
VANITY: Uh, huh.
MORRIS: Yeah .?
VANITY: I know it's rather masculine, but try this one on. He slides a large glass diamond on her My God, darling it fits. He studies her hands closely
MORRIS: I know it's rather masculine, but try this one on. He slides a large glass diamond on her My God, darling it fits. He studies her hands closely
VANITY: My God, darling it fits. He studies her hands closely
MORRIS: My God, darling it fits. He studies her hands closely
MORRIS: You must have strong hands, but they're so soft.like oils in my bubble bath. ( a beat ) Damn . He leans close to her
MORRIS: I'm not usually so forward, but would you like to make love to me? I can make it so nice . She giggles freely, looks at him with big eyes
VANITY: I'm not usually so forward, but would you like to make love to me? I can make it so nice . She giggles freely, looks at him with big eyes
MORRIS: I'm not usually so forward, but would you like to make love to me? I can make it so nice . She giggles freely, looks at him with big eyes
MORRIS: Do you know what is meant by the words, huh, I hate to use them, they're so harsh, so American.I mean, and yet on the other hand, they're exciting words. The words. ( pause ) .chili sauce. Oh, Lord. ( a beat )
MORRIS: You know, I haven't made love in so long, but with you I know it would be just like riding a bike. I'd remember everything I've ever learned. ( a beat ) Baby, if the kid can't make you come, nobody can. Jerome checks off his pad
JEROME: ( whispers ) Morris fixes Vanity with his half- lidded, pouty-lip look
MORRIS: Morris fixes Vanity with his half- lidded, pouty-lip look
JEROME: Morris fixes Vanity with his half- lidded, pouty-lip look
MORRIS: Huh, what's it gonna to be She's on the spot, thinks fast
VANITY: PULL OVER THERE! Over there that's where I Jerome SKIDS the car to a stop. They're directly in front of a slick, hi-rise apartment building
MORRIS: Over there that's where I Jerome SKIDS the car to a stop. They're directly in front of a slick, hi-rise apartment building
JEROME: Over there that's where I Jerome SKIDS the car to a stop. They're directly in front of a slick, hi-rise apartment building
VANITY: Over there that's where I Jerome SKIDS the car to a stop. They're directly in front of a slick, hi-rise apartment building
MORRIS: Uh, what one is it?
VANITY: Uh, what one is it?
MORRIS: Uh, what one is it?
VANITY: That one, right there, see? On the 14th floor.
MORRIS: It's nice, huh?
VANITY: Oh, it's great. Real pretty. Big open rooms, balconies, fireplace the works. He smiles lovingly
MORRIS: Jerome puts the Caddy into gear, pulls off into the night-
VANITY: Hey, wait! C'mon! ( a beat ) Okay where are you taking ( smiling ) You and me are a lot alike.- I like that. So, I'd like to help you out. I think I have something you may be interested, in.
MORRIS: ( smiling ) You and me are a lot alike.- I like that. So, I'd like to help you out. I think I have something you may be interested, in.
VANITY: Oh yeah what? Jerome hands Morris a cassette Morris waves it in front of her nose
MORRIS: A little song and dance. That is, if you can sing and dance.
VANITY: ( defensively ) Prince is goinq to help me. Jerome and Moris suppress their laughter-
JEROME: Motherfucker needs a haircut.
MORRIS: Hee, hee, uh, excuse me. No he won't. He's never done anything in his whole life for anybody but himself.
VANITY: Guys better than you have promised me things before.
MORRIS: I know that's right, but Jerome hands him a card with an address on it. Morris hands the card to her
MORRIS: ( con't )
MORRIS: Come by any time.
MORRIS: Jerome leans over, taps the glass the window glides down
MORRIS: ( to Vanity ) One more thing . Jerome snaps the glove compartment, hands Morris a neatly folded camisole. Morris presents it to her
MORRIS: Here's a little something for you. If you get cold when you wear it, call me. He snaps his fingers Jerome pulls the Caddy away with a screech.
VANITY: Another two KNOCKS, something like a confirmation. She smiles, cuts to the door, flings it open but Prince is there. She's shocked, but recovers His face remains placid as he puts on his sunglasses
VANITY: I had a feeling it was you I knew it! It's amazing I could tell it was you. His face remains placid as he puts on his sunglasses
PRINCE: How'd you get home?
VANITY: Took a cab.
PRINCE: Oh yeah? Where'd you get She stares at the camisole in her hands-
VANITY: I adore camisoles. He nods dispassionately, walks into the room, gives the place the once over, Let's ride.
PRINCE: Let's ride.
AERIAL SHOT: Prince and Vanity on his motorcycle whipping down the highway. The DAWN LIGHT breaks over the horizon.
ANOTHER ANGLE: as Prince and Vanity whip up to the top of a small hill, skid to a stop. He scans the area quickly, gets his bearings. He pops the clutch, skids off to the valley below.
VANITY: God, this is beautiful. It reminds me of where I grew up. My father used to . He waits for an answer, it's not Your father used to what.?
PRINCE: Your father used to what.?
VANITY: Nothing.it's just. ( changes subject ) You must like places like He goes to the stream, balances on several rocks, moves to the other side. The stream flows between them
VANITY: So, have you reconsidered my What we talked about last You can't be serious. She starts a little dance step, climaxes it with spins and twirls
PRINCE: What we talked about last You can't be serious. She starts a little dance step, climaxes it with spins and twirls
VANITY: What we talked about last You can't be serious. She starts a little dance step, climaxes it with spins and twirls
PRINCE: You can't be serious. She starts a little dance step, climaxes it with spins and twirls
VANITY: Oh, come on you know you really want to. You've been waiting for this opportunity He can't help laughing she freezes, looks at him coldly
PRINCE: I'm sorry excuse me.
VANITY: God so why do you come around? You don't want to help me, not that you have to. You don't want to sleep with me, not that you have to do that either. So why am I He smiles, walks off
VANITY: There's a lot of things you don't know about me. You'd be surprised how many things I could do. He disappears around some trees
VANITY: Take me home immediately! I want to go home. I can't stand this! I can't take this anymore! Prince! PRINCE moves through the trees smiling, studying nature
VANITY: ( to herself ) I don't get this. ( yells ) Prince! Who do you think you are?! You don't care. You don't care about anything! I never wanted you to help me PRINCE rests by the tree, observes TWO HIKERS walking down the path toward him-
PRINCE: Good morning.
VANITY: PRINCE, I HATE YOU! Good morning, sir. VANITY is standing by his side, a wildflower in her hands
HIKERS: Good morning, sir. VANITY is standing by his side, a wildflower in her hands
VANITY: ( softly ) I'm sorry. I shouldn't have said those things. Will you forgive me?
PRINCE: ( softly ) He takes the flower, slips it into his jacket, kisses her forehead.
ANOTHER ANGLE: RAIN patters srtongly against the barn. A deep THUNDER rolls. She's on top of him, moving deliciously, her body glowing in the purple, dawn light. Moist, purple water shadows streak and course her skin as she moves slowly, then deliberately against him. He watches her avidly, his hands firmly on her thighs, and thrusts into her again and again.and again.
PRINCE: See you later?
VANITY: 'Cause I have to do something ( coyly ) A secret.
PRINCE: 'Cause I have to do something ( coyly ) A secret.
VANITY: 'Cause I have to do something ( coyly ) A secret.
PRINCE: ( coyly ) A secret.
VANITY: ( coyly ) A secret.
PRINCE: Tell me.
VANITY: Okay, come by eight He kicks the bike into gear she touches his jacket longingly
PRINCE: Okay, come by eight He kicks the bike into gear she touches his jacket longingly
VANITY: He blasts off. She watches him a moment, her eyes glowing. She heads to her motel, then stops short a single CARNATION lies oon the sidewalk. She looks around quickly, almost expecting someone to claim it. But no one's around, so she picks it up, goes inside.
HALLWAY: as she comes to a halt outside her room, picking up carnations along the way. She opens her door, cuts inside.
VANITY: ( surprised ) Come in . He cuts inside, and is followed by another MAN, holding a bouquet of Hey wait a minute. What's going on? The Men leave the room
MAN: ( surprised ) Come in . He cuts inside, and is followed by another MAN, holding a bouquet of Hey wait a minute. What's going on? The Men leave the room
VANITY: ( surprised ) Come in . He cuts inside, and is followed by another MAN, holding a bouquet of Hey wait a minute. What's going on? The Men leave the room
VANITY: Hey wait a minute. What's going on? The Men leave the room
MAN: She hurries to the window, looks out
MORRIS: Good morning, dahling.
VANITY: You're crazy! What are you ( excited ) Come down come down.
MORRIS: ( excited ) Come down come down.
VANITY: I can't I've got things to C'mon, ten minutes. I want to show you something- She shakes her head
MORRIS: C'mon, ten minutes. I want to show you something- She shakes her head
VANITY: I'm sorry, but thanks for the flowers. You're really crazy. She disappears from the window. They stand expectantly a long time. Finally Jerome looks at Morris
JEROME: Well.what do you think? Morris is staring intently at the window he purses his lips sensualy
MORRIS: Chili sauce. Just then Vanity steps outside, looks stunning in her tight, black pants and boots. Her eyes dance vivaciously, a red sash is tied around her waste. Morris gives Jerome his sexy, half- lidded, pouty-lip look
MORRIS: Oh, Lord.
WENDY: What's wrong? Lisa points to Prince. Wendy immediately rips into the guitar solo of "G-Spot." She stops suddenly
WENDY: Is that better? Do you like He ignores her
PRINCE: Where is everybody?
LISA: You're late they left.
PRINCE: So what are you doing here? Lisa immediately launches into the opening bars of "Let's Get Crazy"
LISA: ( imitating Prince ) But I'm here to tell you that there's something else our The Girls bust up he glares at them
PRINCE: Can't you guys get off it? Can't you just leave it alone? Wendy meets his glare with one of her Yeah we'll get off it. She turns, snaps off the Linn Machine angrily, plunging the club into silence.
WENDY: Yeah we'll get off it. She turns, snaps off the Linn Machine angrily, plunging the club into silence.
MORRIS: As you can see, we need someone with your special CUClock. We See: 8:15. Prince sits, on his bed, staring at the clock, seemingly lost in thoucht. He gets up, rummages through his coat pockets, pulls out Lisa's and Wendy's tape. He snaps it into the player, settles back. MUSIC fills the room. He listens intently a moment, his face placid. He closes his eyes, tries to relax . Suddenly a DOOR SLAMS in the far reaches of the house. Harsh FOOTSTEPS echo through the upstairs hallway. Prince remains still, his eyes closed. Then another deathly DOOR SLAM! GLASS dissolves in its frame and trickles to the floor like icicles. Resentment surges in him like a tornado. He rises purposefully, turns the MUSIC up. .And then his door SMASHES open and his Mother LUNGES into the room in a PANIC. She flings herself onto his bed as his Father streaks in and WHACKS! WHACKS! WHACKS! at her with a strap, SCREAMING at her with an ominous growl of rage
FATHER: You ain't got no business leaving here! All your sneaking around you're just a sinner! You're nothing but a low life sinner! The Mother throws herself at him drunkenly, starts slapping, scratching at his face
MOTHER: Shut up! You don't care about me! Leave me alone! Prince claws desperately at his Father's Don't I keep the heat on? Isn't there food in the ( crying ) I don't like it here. You never talk to me! I'm always Prince drags his Father away
FATHER: Don't I keep the heat on? Isn't there food in the ( crying ) I don't like it here. You never talk to me! I'm always Prince drags his Father away
MOTHER: ( crying ) I don't like it here. You never talk to me! I'm always Prince drags his Father away
PRINCE: Dad, please!
FATHER: ( shouting ) What's the matter with this house? Isn't it nice and warm The Mother stands on the bed SHRIEKING
MOTHER: You're crazy!
FATHER: Shut up!
FATHER: Shut up!
MOTHER: ( triumphantly ) The Father lunges, drags Prince along the floor, WHACKS! the Mother in the face. She topples in a heap to the bed. He's over her now, breathing fire, flailing about savagely
FATHER: Shut up! Shut up! Shut up!
PRINCE: ( desperately ) He lunges, drop KICKS his Father with everything he's got! His Father SMASHES backwards against the wall, slides to his buttocks on the floor. He sits there dully, exhausted.spent. Prince crawls up along the side of the bed. His Mother buries her head in the pillow, choking back sobs
MOTHER: I'm just trapped here. His Father's eyes well with tears. He leans close to her, speaks softly
FATHER: You always got a roof You don't let me have any His Father sighs wearily, pulls himself to his feet. He moves to the door
MOTHER: You don't let me have any His Father sighs wearily, pulls himself to his feet. He moves to the door
FATHER: I could make you happy. Just believe in me.
MOTHER: You never.
FATHER: I would die for you. He leaves the room, closes the door behind him. PRINCE stares at the door a moment, tears welling in his eyes. His Mother is motionless, whimpering softly. A scent of liquor permeates the air. He moves toward her, reaches out Suddenly she jumps up, starts pacing It's nice here. It's a nice house. Nothing wrong. ( a beat ) It's a good family. Believe me, I know. Nothing wrong ( a beat ) Your father is okay. He's a good man. You could learn She catches a glimpse of herself in the mirror, stops
MOTHER: It's nice here. It's a nice house. Nothing wrong. ( a beat ) It's a good family. Believe me, I know. Nothing wrong ( a beat ) Your father is okay. He's a good man. You could learn She catches a glimpse of herself in the mirror, stops
MOTHER: My, my! Don't you think I have a good figure? Your Father did. She sits in front of the mirror, studies her face, her eyes.her breasts
MOTHER: I was beautiful when your Dad met me. I was out-a-sight! She giggles, starts applying makeup
MOTHER: I looked just like a movie star. The minute he saw me singing, I knew just what he She fixes him with a conspiratorial look, whispers
MOTHER: He wanted to get into my She makes funny, "jazzy" eyes at him, then stops suddenly, staring. His face, mouth, eyes.a sudden stirring in her loins. Her lips part, she moistens them She turns from the mirror and stares at him his look connects with her groin. She rises suddenly, walks slowly toward the bed, sits facing him
MOTHER: You look so pretty. Just like me, honey. You coulda been a She outlines the mole on his cheek with a makeup pencil, then draws one on herself. She takes her earring off, and puts it on his ear. They are face to face identical
MOTHER: So pretty. She looks at him drunkenly. He tries to hold it in, but can't. A tear, hot and hard as a bullet flows down his cheek. She puts her index finger in front of his face, moves it back and forth hypnotically. Suddenly she pulls her hand away, stretches it to the ceiling like an escaping bird. He swallows, tries to smile she leans close
MOTHER: ( secretly ) I have to go now, see some friends. Don't tell your father, okay? She gets up, leaves the room
MOTHER: Bye, skipper.bye.
VANITY: I missed you! Missed you! Missed you! She hugs him tight, showers him with kisses, topples them both to the bed. Laughing, hugging, kissing fast and furious. Suddenly she jumps up like a panther, fluffs her hair wildly in the mirror, fixes him with a wanton look. His eyes devour her
PRINCE: Come here. Where were you? She moistens her lips, walks lasciviously toward the bed, sits facing him. She laughs suddenly, pushes him back.and they're at each other again - - faces two inches apart; touching, whispering, kissing, hands searching shutting out the rocm, shutting out the She jumps up suddenly. She can't be contained! She practically levitates
VANITY: I have a big surprise for you. She rushes to the coal chute, climbs halfway through. Prince, puzzled, cracks up watching her ass and legs dangling. She drops back into the room, holding a large PACKAGE. His eyes widen. She struts to the bed, lays it down majestically before him
VANITY: ( sings ) What is it?
PRINCE: What is it?
VANITY: Open it. He starts peeling the tape off, careful not to rip the paper. Vanity's bursting with excitement though, and demolishes it in a flash! He laughs, opens the lid stares in shock
PRINCE: Oh, no. ( happy ) Oh, no! He pulls out a gleaming new GUITAR, and we immediately recognize it as the one they saw in the window. He's deliriously happy, and speechless
PRINCE: How'd you do it? She shouts with delight, attacks him again, pushing the guitar aside. Fast, furious kisses and he responds in kind. They're twisted in a heap on the bed. After a moment they come up for air, stare at each other playfully. Something flashes across his mind
PRINCE: Her eyes widen. He takes off his Mother's earring, fastens it to her ear. Eyes dancing, she jumps up, studies it closely, in the mirror
VANITY: I love it! She twists around, kneels beside him, showers him with bites and kisses. Suddenly she stops
VANITY: I'm going to join Morris' His face drops, shocked
PRINCE: She backs away from him, stands, strikes a defensive stance
VANITY: I'm going to join Morris' He LUNGES savagely before he knows it! His hand lashes out, SMASHES her in the face. She falls back, CRASHES into the mirror. She slips dully to the floor, tries desperately to brace herself on a He's horrified
PRINCE: I'm sorry! Oh, baby, I'm sorry! Are you alright? He helps her up, she turns away from him-
VANITY: Just.leave me alone. His heart staggers in his chest
PRINCE: Please.it's just. ( a beat ) I don't want you around this at all. I just don't want you in my life this way. You don't have to prove anything to me or anybody else. ( a beat ) Vanity.? Don't I make you happy? Don.t you like the way we are? ( another thought ) Do you know Morris? Do you know what he's about? He doesn't care about you. She twists viciously
VANITY: She rushes into the antechamber, climbs through the coal chute, disappears into the night.
PRINCE: Where's Lisa and Wendy?
BOBBY: They haven't shown up yet.
PRINCE: They call? The Guys shrug, look away. Prince simmers a moment, straps on his guitar - - immediately gets ear-splitting FEEDBACK. He stomps on the floor pedals angrily. Just then Chick comes up to the stage
CHICK: Prince. Billy Sparks wants to see you.
PRINCE: Tell him I'm rehearsing.
CHICK: Uh, uh now.
BILLY: What do you want?
PRINCE: You wanted to see me? Billy still moves Prince keeps up
BILLY: You having trouble?
PRINCE: ( shrugs ) No .
BILLY: No .
PRINCE: No .
BILLY: Where's Lisa and Wendy? He stops abruptly at the front door, studies Prince for a long time. Then he cuts outside. Prince follows.
BILLY: Morris called me this morning. Seems he's got himself a new group called Vanity Six. You know anything about them?
PRINCE: ( a beat ) He tells me they're great. Thinks I'll be interested. That's cool, but now I've got a problem.
BILLY: He tells me they're great. Thinks I'll be interested. That's cool, but now I've got a problem.
PRINCE: What's that?
BILLY: I book three acts I can't afford four. If they're as good as Morris says they are, one of you will have to go. Suddenly a HORN BLARES off screen. Billy looks up a BEAUTIFUL BABE in a black BMW waves
BILLY: Go around the block! The Babe pulls into the flow of traffic-
BILLY: It won't be The Time they're playing backup to Vanity. So it's either you or the Modern Aires. ( a beat ) What would You do in my Prince has a sinking feeling in his gut-
BILLY: ( musing ) I like the Modern Aires. They have a good following they show up for practice and the kids like all their music. The BMW sweeps up to the curb. Billy opens the door, slides in
BILLY: 'Nough said. Get smart. Straighten up your shit.
PRINCE: I want to talk to you. She's out of breath, waves him off
VANITY: Not now, I'm busy.
PRINCE: A TITTER goes through the Band Members - - Vanity wipes her face, fixes him with a glare
VANITY: I said I'm busy we'll talk Uh, uh. He grabs her suddenly, pulls her to the Leave me alone! I've got a show to do! She pulls away savagely
PRINCE: Uh, uh. He grabs her suddenly, pulls her to the Leave me alone! I've got a show to do! She pulls away savagely
VANITY: Leave me alone! I've got a show to do! She pulls away savagely
VANITY: YOU can't just come in here and take me away! We'll talk Morris is enraged
MORRIS: Man why don't you just do the walk? Prince glares at him, cups his genitals-
PRINCE: Why don't you kiss the one- eyed snake? The Band lets out a condescending GROAN the tension rises
MORRIS: Jellybean, 6'4", 210 pounds, steps from behind the drums, moves up behind Prince-
JELLYBEAN: Let's go, Jack.
PRINCE: Fuck you! He lunges, grabs Vanity again she
SHRIEKS: Leave me alone, dammit! Get out of here! Jellybean lurches, grabs Prince in a HEAIDLOCK, lifts him off his his feet. Prince kicks at him wildly
VANITY: Leave me alone, dammit! Get out of here! Jellybean lurches, grabs Prince in a HEAIDLOCK, lifts him off his his feet. Prince kicks at him wildly
JELLYBEAN: ( enraged ) He twists Prince's head backwards, SMASHES his body to the ground
JELLYBEAN: Stay still, motherfucker!! But Prince continues fighting him with everything he's got! Jellybean is He twists Prince's neck savagely, SMASHES! his legs to the floor again and Vanity is crying
JELLYBEAN: He twists Prince's neck savagely, SMASHES! his legs to the floor again and Vanity is crying
JELLYBEAN: Vanity is crying
VANITY: Jellybean, please. Jellybean settles his weight on Prince, twists his head down painfully, trying to break the resistance he alone can feel. Prince remains silent, the anger coursing through his body in tremors The Guys surround them, grabbing Prince's arms, legs, and feet. He's like a trapped animal now
JELLYBEAN: Lift him.
VANITY: ( crying ) Don't hurt him . They pick him up, move him toward the door. He resists them slightly, his body lurching in fit and starts. Suddenly he breaks free, faces them with his back to he door. But the Band Members surround him, their wills united, the obviousness of the situation apparent to all. He searches for Vanity's eyes, but she can't face him and walks away. Anger again surges in his veins. He cuts out the door, SLAMS it behind him.
PRINCE: She turns, he gasps out loud. Her left eye is swollen shut
MOTHER: ( drunkenly ) Hi, ya, baby. Her drunken breath washes over him his head spins
PRINCE: Ma.what happened? She rubs up against him
MOTHER: Can you give me some money? C'mon, just some money. She gropes for him drunkenly he suddenly realizes she doesn't know who he is
MOTHER: She tugs at her wedding ring
MOTHER: Give me something for this.just a little. It'll be okay.
PRINCE: C'mon.I'll take you home. Just then a COP moves through the Crowd-
COP: Okay, c'mon now break it up. Let's go.. The Crowd moves out. Police RADIOS cackle. Three WOMEN stagger over, one of them grabbing his Mother
WOMAN: C'mon, honey we're goin' She fixes Prince with a glare
WOMAN: You're a little young aren't you? Get out of here. Leave her alone.
PRINCE: Where the fuck are you? He spins like a top, streaks down the hallway, throws open several doors Where are you? He cuts into the kitchen raging
PRINCE: Where are you? He cuts into the kitchen raging
PRINCE: Answer me you fucker!! He twists around frustrated; exhaustion, anger, and pain competing for the same space. Suddenly he stops, listens intently a moment. We HEAR it now a PIANO. Someone's PLAYING A PIANO. Prince throws a look at the basement door it's ajar.
PRINCE: Is that yours?
FATHER: 'Course it's mine. Who else's is it goin' to be? Got all kinds of them. They're different too.
PRINCE: I'd like to see them. You got them written down somewhere?
FATHER: No, man I don't write them down don't need to. That's the big difference between you and me.
PRINCE: Thought you weren't going to play no more. His Father looks at him sullenly, then looks down, stares at the keys. Prince's eyes well with tears
PRINCE: I saw Mom up the street. She looked pretty bad. Any idea how she got that way? His Father bites his his lip, rubs a hand over his face, stares at the keys. His voice comes with difficulty
PRINCE: ( a beat ) I got a girlfriend.
FATHER: You gonna get married?
PRINCE: ( long pause ) I don't know. His Father shares a hurtful look with him, then stares darkly at the floor Never get married.
FATHER: Never get married.
VANITY: What are we doing here, What do you mean?
MORRIS: What do you mean?
VANITY: I don't want to be here. I don't want to hurt anybody.
MORRIS: It's not about hurting anybody. This is business. We can use the exposure. Just then Brenda and Susan come up to the car excitedly. Brenda is dressed in a 40's-style dress, Susan wears a form- fitting leopard one. They both look Hi you coming in? Their excitement and nervousness is endearing. Vanity's heart goes out to them. She forces a smile, climbs out Your horns are showing, Yeah.but they're holding up my halo.
BRENDA: Hi you coming in? Their excitement and nervousness is endearing. Vanity's heart goes out to them. She forces a smile, climbs out Your horns are showing, Yeah.but they're holding up my halo.
VANITY: Your horns are showing, Yeah.but they're holding up my halo.
MORRIS: Yeah.but they're holding up my halo.
BAR AREA: as Billy Sparks shakes hands with Morris and Jerome and is introduced to Vanity Six for the first time. We can tell by his reaction that he likes what he sees. He kisses Brenda and Susan, saves a special squeeze for Vanity herself. He escorts the whole group to a table across the floor. Vanity brings up the rear, casts a quick look to Prince fastens on her and brings "Computer Blue" to a rousing end. The Crowd applauds, but it's more out of respect than eagerness. He doesn't seem to notice though, or care. He confers quickly with his group., then moves center-stage. The Band Members trade frustrated looks with each other it's obvious that they have some trouble with the next song. Prince presses his lips to the mike, and the MUSIC starts. He begins SINGING "Darling Nicky"
PRINCE: fastens on her and brings "Computer Blue" to a rousing end. The Crowd applauds, but it's more out of respect than eagerness. He doesn't seem to notice though, or care. He confers quickly with his group., then moves center-stage. The Band Members trade frustrated looks with each other it's obvious that they have some trouble with the next song. Prince presses his lips to the mike, and the MUSIC starts. He begins SINGING "Darling Nicky"
PRINCE: I knew a girl named Nicky, I guess you can say she was a sex fiend. I met her in a hotel lobby masturbating in magazines. She said, How'd you like to waste some time, And I could not resist When I saw little Nicky grind.
BILLY SPARKS: shoots a fierce look to Prince, helps Morris, Jerome and the Girls to their table. Vanity is watching Prince, a puzzled look on her face
MORRIS: Hee, hee.little empty tonight, huh, Billy. But I guess money isn't everything. Jerome busts up
JEROME: Oh no. that's cold. But Billy agrees
BILLY: The Duke of Dick is in rare form tonight. They all look toward the stage
PRINCE: is fastened on Vanity and it's apparent to all. He launches into the next verse-
PRINCE: She took me to her castle And I could not believe my She had so many devices Everything that money could She said, Sign your name on the dotted The lights went out, And Nicky started to grind.
VANITY: flushes with embarrassment. Billy and Morris notice this and glare at Prince.
PRINCE: looks dead-center at them, and then to
PRINCE: I woke up the next morning. Nicky wasn't there. I looked all ov'r all I found Was a phone number on the It said thank you for a funky Call me up when ev'r you want to grind.
VANITY: stands suddenly, fighting back tears. She backs from the table quickly, knocks the chair over. Morris tries to help her, but she sweeps past him, hurrying for the exit.
CHICK: Hey . But she pulls away, runs out the door, cuts across the street.
PRINCE: brings the SONG to a blistering end. The stage is plunged into darkness. He strips off his guitar, cuts from the stage, ignoring the grave looks from his Band Members.
BILLY: What the fuck's wrong with you, Prince?!
PRINCE: I don't have time for your bullshit, Billy. What do you My stage is no place for your personal shit!
BILLY: My stage is no place for your personal shit!
PRINCE: That's life, man.
BILLY: Life my ass, motherfucker! This is a business, and you're not too far gone to see that. ( a beat ) I've told you this before. You're not pulling them in like you used to. The only person who gives a fuck about your music is yourself.
PRINCE: Fuck off! But Billy can't help laughing
BILLY: Just like your old man. Prince shoots him a threatening look
BILLY: Yeah you got it. Tell me I'm wrong. ( a beat ) You're not blind. Look around you. No one's digging you. Prince turns away
BILLY: Look at your band. Are they in here right now? They're out there 'cause they can't stand being in the same room with you. ( a beat ) What a fucking waste.like father, like son
PRINCE: Lay off that! Billy turns to go
BILLY: Take your head out of your ass, Prince, check it out unless you like the view up there. Your music doesn't make sense to anyone but He closes the door behind him. Prince stands dully a moment, then sits heavily in a chair. Exhaustion suddenly overwhelms him. He rests his head in his hands, moments tick by. He shakes himself awake Morris and Jerome stand by the door
JEROME: That was fucked up what you did man. Morris doesn't like it. And being a part of this - - I don't like it either.
PRINCE: I don't care.
MORRIS: Hee, hee.huh, it's obvious you don't have what it takes to be on top. He pulls an envelope from his pocket
MORRIS: But to show you that I'm sympathetic to your problems - - here's a pass to our show tomorrow night. Enjoy it. They leave. Then Morris sticks his head into the doorway
MORRIS: Don't forget to bring a girlfriend. Whawhak!
JEROME'S POV: Billy Sparks and his Girlfriend being seated at a front table. A COMEDIAN is on stage juggling KNIVES and HATCHETS. The CROWD is ROARING their approval.
MORRIS: cuts from the dressing room, closes the door behind him. He joins Jerome at the curtain, and they move down the back stairway to the CLUB
MORRIS: ( nervously ) I guess this is it.
JEROME: I guess so, M.D.
MORRIS: I think I'm going to be sick. Why does this have to be happening to me? Has it crossed your mind that we're about to make the biggest mistake we've ever made?
JEROME: I don't think it's all that That's why I do all the
MORRIS: That's why I do all the
MORRIS: Oh, God He sits quickly, followed by Jerome they both put on sunglasses. A HUSH descends over the CROWD. The CURTAIN rises slowly.and Brenda, Susan and Vanity are frozen in a provocative, vampy stance. Their effect on the audience is galvanizing the Crowd bursts into APPLAUSE and WHISTLES
MORRIS: ( surprised ) Wearing sexy lingerie and moving seductively to the beat, the Girls launch into "Sex Shooter" with complete abandon. The MUSIC is slick and fierce, the Girls sexy and sure. Wearing black bikini panties, black tails and boots, Vanity dances center-stage and begins SINGING. She's mesmerizing, her look so alluring, so profound that the audience sits slack-jawed in amazement. The SPOTLIGHT is hers and she soaks it in, radiating a sexiness that has the audience at her feet. The entire concept dress, dance, music and staging is overwhelming, with just the right degree of playfulness to allow the Crowd easy passage into the fantasy world the Girls create. Brenda and Susan play off her wonderfully, sharing secret looks with the Crowd, balancing the wickedness of the act with an innocence that is enticing. They're working strongly as a unit now, the AUDIENCE roaring their approval.
MORRIS: and Jerome are beside themselves with happiness. The pull off their shades immediately, sit back and glow in the audience's response.
PRINCE: stands in the back, his eyes glued to Vanity. Her strength and sureness in front of the Crowd is breathtaking. The audience loves her and he suddenly feels very alone as if another wall has gone up between them. He looks away a moment and spots. .Morris looking at him with a self- satisfied, triumphant grin on his face. Prince looks away, moves out of his "Sex Shooter" comes to an end. The stage is plunged into darkness. The CROWD goes WILD, leaps to their feet, begging for more. The Girls, slighly over-whelmed by the response and flushing deep red, hold one another.tightly and take repeated bows.
PRINCE: watches the Girls bowing to thunderous APPLAUSE. Suddenly Vanity looks at him and touches the earring she's wearing it's his Mother's. His knees weaken instantly, and he locks eyes with her. The heat between them is unmistakable. She smiles vividly, gives him an endearing wave and steps back as the curtain closes. He's MOVING through the Crowd before he knows it, trying to get to the backstage door. The Crowd is thick, his path momentarily blocked. He spots Billy Sparks cutting across the floor and congratulating Morris and Jerome. Prince turns from them, tries once again to make his way through the Crowd.
VANITY: and the Girls rush into the dressing room and jump up and down with excitement. They are beside themselves with happiness, kissing and hugging one another avidly. Suddenly Vanity pulls away, indicates she will be back and cuts out the room.
HALLWAY: as she runs down the hallway to the backstage area, peers from behind the curtain, scanning the club earnestly.
BILLY: Morris is squeezing you, kiddo. You better kick ass tomorrow night or else. He cuts outside, disappears into the Crowd. Prince stands there steaming, the wind knocked out of him, his joy a memory. He turns back to the line, but it has grown, the Crowd now jammed up against the door. Frustrated, he cuts as Vanity watches Prince leave. A profound sadness sweeps her face. Suddenly Susan is by her Side, hugging and kissing her happily. Brenda runs up, pouring champagne. Morris, Jerome and The Time are at the end of the hallway and beckon her excitedly into the room. Vanity forces a smile, goes down the hallway, casting another look at the exit door.
BACKSTAGE: as Vanity watches Prince leave. A profound sadness sweeps her face. Suddenly Susan is by her Side, hugging and kissing her happily. Brenda runs up, pouring champagne. Morris, Jerome and The Time are at the end of the hallway and beckon her excitedly into the room. Vanity forces a smile, goes down the hallway, casting another look at the exit door.
VANITY: Did you hear these people applauding? They loved us they wanted to rip us apart, and this is just our first night. I can see it now, we're all going to be big stars. I can feel it.
MORRIS: ( singing ) Ain't nobody bad like me. She kisses him spontaneously on the Morris, you're a genius.
VANITY: Morris, you're a genius.
MORRIS: He fixes her with a sexy look, takes a healthy look from his flask, then gives it too her. Vanity throws her head back, drinks fully, the liquor coursing over her cheeks. He devours her with his eyes, opens the door to the Caddy
MORRIS: Let's go, Bebe. She stops as if remembering something
VANITY: Huh, where's Jerome?
MORRIS: In his skin.hee, hee. He's trying to nudge her into the Caddy-
VANITY: Is he coming?
MORRIS: I gave him the night off.
VANITY: He staggers back from the car, undulates his hips wantonly
MORRIS: She busts up. Just then a MOTORCYCLE can be heard off screen. They look around drunkenly, trying to discern its direction. Suddenly Prince BLASTS around the corner FULL OUT! He streaks by Morris and KICKS him flat on his ass into the garbage
MORRIS: ( wails ) Oh, no Oh, God.No! Prince skids to a slick stop. Vanity is transfixed. The entire episode took less than five seconds. He twists the throttle, BLASTS down upon her. She breaks in a panic! She runs clumsily down another alley, her coat flying. He WHIPS after her like a madman. She flies around the corner a dead end! He fishtails to a slick Get on! There's no way out! Suddenly she lets out an excited YELP, jumps on. He guns the bike, BURSTS up the alley. Morris jumps into his path drunkenly, his arms Stop! Stop! But Prince BLAZES down upon him, sending him slipping and sliding to safety. He BLASTS around the bend
PRINCE: Get on! There's no way out! Suddenly she lets out an excited YELP, jumps on. He guns the bike, BURSTS up the alley. Morris jumps into his path drunkenly, his arms Stop! Stop! But Prince BLAZES down upon him, sending him slipping and sliding to safety. He BLASTS around the bend
MORRIS: Stop! Stop! But Prince BLAZES down upon him, sending him slipping and sliding to safety. He BLASTS around the bend
MORRIS: Motherfucker! You long-haired ( 97 ) EXT. HIGHWAY TO EMBANKMENT NIGHT Prince and Vanity WHIPPING down the They streak down the road, slow, then move down a small embankment. He stops the bike and gets off. She's in a foul mood, staggers around dully, her head pounding, her speech slurred
VANITY: So here we are again. So this is it, huh? What do you want this time? He looks at her painfully, upset about her drunken state
VANITY: What's your problem now? What's your main problem?
PRINCE: No problem. I just wanted to talk, alright? I just want us to be okay, to really get along. No big deal. She cackles, falls flat on her ass, hoists herself up
VANITY: No big deal, huh. She pulls Morris' FLASK from her jacket his eyes blacken
PRINCE: Give me that.
VANITY: No, definitely not. Who are you? You can't tell me what to do. She puts it to her lips
PRINCE: Please don't drink that. Give it to me. She holds the flask to her lips defiantly, then goes to drink. He lashes out suddenly, SMASHES it from her grip. She SCREAMS wildly, SLAPS him hard across the face. He stands shocked a moment, his rage surging within him, smashing through every safety valve he's acquired in his life. He BACKHANDS her savagely across the jaw. She hits the ground like a rag doll. He looks at her curiously, bends over her - - she sucker-punches him with everything she's got! He SCREAMS in rage and grabs her hands as they flail about his face. He squeezes her fingers back while the tears stream down her cheeks and her mouth forms a silent "ow"! She bares her teeth angrily and he sucks at her mouth, biting and kissing her in a fever She kicks at him violently, hot tears streaming down her cheeks. He jams his leg between hers, rubs it firmly against her bottom. She struggles helplessly against him as he covers her breasts, her stomach, her thighs with his lips. Quick breaths escape from her her breathing begins to race. He snaps her panties in two, pulls them from between her legs. She spreads herself as he releases his pants. She squeezes his buttocks, pulls him toward her but Prince resists her coldly, regards her with contempt. Suddenly he flips her onto her stomach, forces her to stand painfully on her knees. He rubs his hand between her buttocks, then thrusts into her painfully, driving himself to the very depths of her. .but she stifles a cry, arches her back, and meets his thrusts fiercely, moving quicker and quicker, banging her buttocks against his thighs again and again. She's drawing from him now, turning the humiliation around, obtaining all that she needs and desires. He's powerless her thrusts set the pace. She rises, Prince still inside her and tugs on him rapidly, causing him to ejaculate suddenly, drawing from him a sharp and sudden She moves away, draws her coat tightly about her, fixes him with a contemptuous You're nothing, Prince, absolutely nothing. You think you're so special but deep down you're just like all the ( a beat ) Your whole life you've been hiding, hiding behind your music. But now you don't even have that, because last night.last night you used it to hurt someone, someone who really cares. She runs up the embankment, wipes away her tears, faces him
VANITY: You're nothing, Prince, absolutely nothing. You think you're so special but deep down you're just like all the ( a beat ) Your whole life you've been hiding, hiding behind your music. But now you don't even have that, because last night.last night you used it to hurt someone, someone who really cares. She runs up the embankment, wipes away her tears, faces him
VANITY: If you put your hands on me like that ever again, I'll be the last person you touch. She pulls off his Mother's earring, throws it at him. Tears flowing, she streaks into the HIGHWAY blindly, directly into the path of a SPEEDING CAR-
THE DRIVER: spots her in his HEADLIGHTS, SLAMS on his brakes! He SKIDS wildly across the road, comes to a SCREECHING, BURNING stop inches from her thigh!
VANITY: shoots a look at Prince, her lips trembling, her love for him, written plainly on her face. But his eyes flash defiantly. She bites her lip sadly, then snaps a hot look at the Driver
VANITY: I need a ride. She cuts around the car, hops in. The Driver skids off into the night. Prince stands there trembling, watches as it disappears into the distance.
PRINCE: Silence. A sudden dread courses through him, leaving a hollow in his stomach. His feet are like lead. He moves heavily into the room
PRINCE: Nothing. Panic sets in. He STREAKS down the hallway, twists open the bedroom door it's empty. Blue NIGHT LIGHT glows through the windows. CURTAINS play delicately in the breeze. He's thoughtful, walks back into the living room. .the COFFEE TABLE is SMASHED. He looks at it curiously, wondering stupidly if it had always been like that. Then sudden bolt of fear makes his head swim. A lamp, a porcelain dish, some knickknacks on the mantle all smashed. He rushes into the kitchen, looks around crazily
PRINCE: Nothing but the decay of his scream. The BASEMENT door is ajar. He cuts to it quickly, pulls it open, peers frantically into the darkness below. He snaps ON the light.
MEDIC: And the gurney is hoisted up the stairs quickly, the bulk of the crowd following, his Mother supported as she ascends the stairs. Prince sits on a tattered sofa in the corner, his head bowed. Cops standing and kneeling beside him. Somebody finished taking notes, closes his pad. One Cop rests a hand on his shoulder, talks to him in soft tones. Prince shakes his head slightly. The Cop gives the group a signal and everyone disperses, moves up the stairs. The Cop looks at him sympathetically, then closes the door behind him.
PRINCE: sits motionless a long time. Moonlight floods the basement with a foreboding light. A dog BARKS somewhere in the distance. He looks up suddenly, his face agitated, his eyes red from tears.
PRINCE'S POV: CHALK MARKS on the floor outlining the body of his Father. There's a GUN in his Father's hand clearly marked. A train WHISTLE in the distance. He's staring at the gun. He shakes his head, rubs a hand over his face vigorously and looks up again. .the GUN in his Father's hand. He can't get it out of his mind! The WHISTLE is CLOSER. He lurches to his feet, paces back and forth crazily. His Father's head, the gun.the gun.the. The WHISTLE is LOUDER. He throws himself into the chair, buries his face deeply into his hands and cries. Huge racking sobs spasm through his body. His Father, his Mother, his entire life, his music, his guitar. He looks up suddenly the gun in his Father's hand. ..and he stares at it. The WHISTLE is LOUDER! His heart is pounding in his ears. He squeezes them shut, looks up. The gun. He bolts to his feet, paces back and forth in a panic! The train is HOWLING! A rope in the corner of the room, his face, the gun. He sits dully, gazes at the rope as if in a trance. The TRAIN is ROARING past the house, it's HORN BLASTING. The rope, the gun, and his body dangling from the rafters in the night breeze
PRINCE: ( screaming ) He lurches to his feet, cuts through the basement like a madman. He grabs a stick and starts SLASHING things crazily, moving through the room swinging his stick wildly again and He's lost to himself now, deep in the pit of an unknown terror, expurgating a horror that has been festering in him for years. He flings his stick at the wall, unends shelves and bureaus, trampling old memories that have lain dormant for years. Drawer after drawer is flung against the wall, their contents smashing and scattering about. He opens a large, oaken chest and flips over. Thick three inch piles of yellowed paper fall out. He snaps through the rubber bands holding them together and flings the paper at the wall again and again. .he stops suddenly, shocked. He SEES musical notes written down on the paper. his heart pounding in his chest, he searches frantically through the rubble scattered about him. More and more musical notes, sketched ideas, simple melodies, entire songs and scores all meticulously recorded on lined yellowed paper, dated for the last 20 years, and signed.by his Father. He's shocked to a standstill. Then the full significance of what's before him hits him like a sledgehammer. He collapses in agony against the chest, tears flowing down his cheeks.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Cool, gray dawn. He's in a dead sleep on the floor, his arms outstretched, his legs twisted beneath him. His Father's outline seemingly rests by his side. Just then the basement window begins to glow with SUNLIGHT. It inches slowly across the floor, then sweeps him majestically, bathing him in its warmth. He wakes slowly, stretches his limbs like an opening flower. After a moment he sits up, shades his eyes. The basement is littered with debris. The destruction is complete, but in the midst of it lies his Father's music. The yellow parchment is scattered about glowing in the sunlight. Something seems to flash across his mind. he stands, moves quickly down the hallway to the antechamber. Suddenly we HEAR a TAPE REWINDING. After a moment.MUSIC and we immediately recognize it as Lisa's and Wendy's SONG. It plays a moment, then snaps off abruptly. He stands locked in thought, then sits behind the piano, hunts for the first few notes of Lisa's and Wendy's song.
MC: ( over )
MORRIS: You love us right?! You want us right?! I can't hear you! The CROWD is SCREAMING Morris flashes a wide, exaggerated grin
MORRIS: What time is it?! ( a beat ) And MUSIC. The Time launches into "The Bird" and Morris, laughing heartily, does 'The Bird" ( dance ) with Jerome as the audience ROARS their approval.
BILLY: ( 109 ) INT. BACKSTAGE NIGHT Morris, Jerome and The Time cut briskly past admiring FANS, laughing and shouting crazily
BAND MEMBERS: ( ad lib ) It's all over now. He better watch out. He doesn't even need to go on. He might as well go home.
MORRIS: How's the family! Whawhak! The Time busts up, drags Morris from the room. Prince's group is shocked, casts furtive glances to him but he remains serene, then
MC: ( over ) Ladies and gentlemen,
BILLY SPARKS: leans against the bar, a smug look on his face.
VANITY: walks slowly up the stairs, gazes at does not move. The APPLAUSE trickles away. He continues to stare in the audience making no attempt to direct his Band, or start a tune. A nervous TWITTER ripples though the crowd. Those who know about the tragedy feel a profound embarrassment for him but no one turns away. Then his voice comes clear and mellifluous
PRINCE: does not move. The APPLAUSE trickles away. He continues to stare in the audience making no attempt to direct his Band, or start a tune. A nervous TWITTER ripples though the crowd. Those who know about the tragedy feel a profound embarrassment for him but no one turns away. Then his voice comes clear and mellifluous
PRINCE: I would like to do a song that two of my friends wrote. A MURMUR, cuts through the Crowd like a riptide. Prince snaps a look to Lisa and Wendy and confirms that it is indeed their song. They can't believe it! Tears spring to Wendy's eyes before she knows it . Prince smiles at her, then gazes at his entire Band. Their eyes fasten on him in an instant. He counts softly and. MUSIC. The opening bars of "Purple Rain." He turns to to the audience and
VANITY: is crying. Every moment she has shared with him is expressed in this song, and the effect on her is unnerving. Her heart leaps to him in a way she never thought possible. But she lets it go willingly, as the words draw her in, seducing her somehow, making her free.as if the music, his words, all that he has experienced and understood, is purging what is confused and ugly within herself, leaving her with an understanding and joy that burns in her womb like soft fire. A smile springs to her lips as tears continue to flow, and she finds herself moving closer. .as the Audience moves closer, drawn somehow to the stage, to the person who SINGS so truly, to the person who gives of himself unselfishly to all that he Prince begins a long sustained CRY that cuts though the hearts of all present. The MUSIC builds awsomely, and he continues to sing out, emptying himself of all the remaining pain lying within. The MUSIC crescendos and comes to a quiet end. Stunned SILENCE. A silence so profound you could hear a pin drop. Prince sighs, assumes the worse, then cuts across the stage purposefully. Now some CLAPPING. And a WHISTLE from the back and the SHOUTING. And more WHISTLES and some even SCREAMING. And the WHISTLES and the SHOUTS and the CLAPPING growing and growing as..
PRINCE: is still running though, his face streaming with tears, past the surprised look of Jill, past the FANS, past everyone stripping of his clothes fiercely, flinging off his jacket, his shirt, his scarf
PRINCE: She's thunderstruck, can barely squeak it out
JILL: And he whips into the hallway. Her face dissolves into a smile of pure joy.
VANITY: I love you. His knees go weak, she kisses him spontaneously, pushes him lovingly to the stage.
STAGE: THUNDER! Prince walks center- stage.and bows. The AUDIENCE goes BERSERK! He acknowledges Wendy and Lisa, and then the entire Band. The CROWD is jumping out of their skin! He straps on his guitar, gives a deft signal and MUSIC. The Band launches into "I Would Die For You." Vanity squeezes her way through the crowd and stands watching Prince from the wings. He presses his lips to the mike and SINGS. The MUSIC continues as we.
