PROMETHEUS: Written by Jon Spaihts
FLASH ON:: A fevered glimpse of the microscopic: cells rupture and bleed. Protein chains unfold. A DNA spiral unravels.
THE ENGINEER: ...spreads his arms. Stands cruciform, nearly headless. The scarabs swarm his shoulders, his chest. When they reach his hips, he collapses sideways, toppling majestically like a felled tree. Engulfed. The two cloaked Engineers watch impassively. Behind them, a vast black SHIP hangs in the sky. As if blown by a great gust of wind, the scarabs disperse in their millions in all directions. Living DNA on the wing. Where the sacrificial victim fell, nothing remains.
FLASH ON:: A microscopic invasion. Cells pierced and infused. DNA strands twining and mating.
ON BLACK: Drifting motes of light against the dark: a starscape.
WATTS: Moving to survey site B... closing on object four. The large oblong. She watches the screen of a ground-penetrating radar system. A bright signal return: something hidden in the cliff in front of her. Something big.
WATTS (CONT'D): There you are.
WATTS: Martin. Here.
HOLLOWAY: Look at that.
WATTS: You need to see this.
WATTS: Same thing again.
HOLLOWAY: What do you see?
WATTS: An ephemeris - a star map.
(POINTING): Radius, inclination, azimuth...more data here...
HOLLOWAY: If we can get epoch and equinox out of that...
WATTS: Can we raise this thing?
HOLLOWAY: (shakes his head) Hundreds of tons.
HOLLOWAY: I have a solution. A single match.
WATTS: Me too. Checked it twice.
HOLLOWAY: You first. Watts holds up her slate: it displays a set of stellar coordinates. A detailed star map. Holloway holds up his own slate: an exact match. They lock eyes in electric excitement.
WATTS: What do we do now?
HOLLOWAY: We go there.
WATTS: What's first? You do climate, I do genetics?
HOLLOWAY: Archaeology first. Let our ancestors tell the tale.
WATTS: You think he's serious?
HOLLOWAY: Serious enough to send his private shuttle.
WATTS: Weyland can send his shuttle out for pizza.
WATTS (CONT'D): Martin. If this meeting goes like the others, maybe we should...
HOLLOWAY: It won't go like the others.
WATTS: How do you know? Holloway plucks the pen from the air. He points out the window, where the crescent Moon shines like a toothy grin.
HOLLOWAY: Heaven smiles on our enterprise.
DAVID: Professor Holloway. Dr. Watts. My name is DAVID.
WATTS: Hello, DAVID.
DAVID: Mr. Weyland's eager to meet you. He strides off across the foyer. Watts and Holloway exchange a wondering glance and follow.
EXHIBIT HALL: DAVID leads past models of planets, moons and asteroids. Holographic labels and data swirl around them.
DAVID: These are all the planetary bodies on which Weyland Industries has mining claims. The end of the hall is dominated by a huge globe of Mars. Markings indicate widespread surface activity.
DAVID (CONT'D): And Mars. Weyland's crown jewel.
HOLLOWAY: How is that going? The terraforming.
WATTS: They say you're getting diminishing returns. It's not working.
DAVID: It's the greatest engineering project ever attempted. Challenges are inevitable. Mr. Weyland's a determined man.
WEYLAND'S OFFICE: PETER WEYLAND sits behind a mahogany desk. He's a Warren Buffet type: a country sage, horse-sense and hard knocks. He might be seventy years old, or a hundred and seventy.
WEYLAND: Professor Holloway. Ms. Watts.
WATTS: Doctor Watts.
WEYLAND: Forgive me. Peter Weyland. He notices Watts looking curiously at DAVID. He smiles.
WEYLAND (CONT'D): Ah. DAVID here's a prototype. Our 80 series. One of a kind for now, but if he performs, he will be legion. (his smile fades) What do you want here? Holloway looks at him, startled.
HOLLOWAY: We sent you a prospectus that...
WEYLAND: Assume I know nothing. Holloway swallows. Lays the metal folio on Weyland's desk.
HOLLOWAY: I'm an archaeologist. He touches a tiny remote. Holographs appear in the air over Weyland's desk: the folio is a three-dimensional imager. Pictures of a younger Holloway in the field: excavating ruins in Egypt, China, Peru, Greece.
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D): In my studies I discovered a pattern I couldn't explain. Every eleven hundred years, sudden advances in agriculture, tool use, technology. Inventions. Something caused a great leap forward. Every eleven centuries. The pattern holds as far back as our data goes.
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D): Tens of thousands of years. I had to understand this. It became the focus of my work. Weyland nods. Holloway glances at Watts and forges on.
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D): Dr. Watts was a student of mine. Watts touches her own remote. The holographic display turns to scientific diagrams. Images of a very young and beautiful Watts in the laboratory.
WATTS: I was analyzing historical changes in human DNA. I found the same pattern. Every eleven centuries, a pulse of new information in the genome of the human race. All over the world. Evolution can't do that. Something was changing us. Changing the DNA of our species.
HOLLOWAY: Humanity's been visited. Visited by...beings from somewhere else. Behind Weyland, Vickers can't suppress a scowl of disdain.
VICKERS: You mean aliens. A beat. The others had forgotten Vickers was there.
WEYLAND: Lydia Vickers, Director of Operations. Practically my right hand.
HOLLOWAY: They guided us to civilization. Lifted us up, again and again. I call them the Engineers.
WATTS: Once you know what you're looking for, it's amazing how the evidence falls into place. Photographs flicker through the display: Holloway and Watts in the field, excavating new sites. Intimately close. Their finds: columns of writing on stone tablets in Egypt, China, Cambodia, Peru. Patterns of lines, curves, and dots.
HOLLOWAY: This is the writing of the Engineers. We've found it on every continent. And last year, we found our Rosetta Stone. The display shows the Engineer obelisk under the sea.
WATTS: The writing is a formula giving the location of a single star in our sky.
WEYLAND: Which star?
HOLLOWAY: We're keeping that confidential for now. But that's where we want to go.
WEYLAND: You want me to pay for an interstellar research expedition!
HOLLOWAY: It's a chance to be part of a revolution in scientific...
WEYLAND: Don't sell me, professor. You've been turned down by every university and government agency under the sun. Nobody's going to gamble that kind of money on your hunch. Holloway deflates. Watts winces. This is a bloodbath.
WEYLAND (CONT'D): Nobody but me.
(HE GRINS): I've read your research.
HOLLOWAY: That's impossible. Our research is-
WEYLAND: Quantum encoded on secure servers, yeah. We have an A.I. division, you should know. Doing impressive things. (he leans across the desk) I know which star you're wishing on. The scientists stare at Weyland.
WATTS: You're bluffing.
WEYLAND: Zeta Two Reticuli. He regards their shocked faces with satisfaction.
WEYLAND (CONT'D): You know how I got this rich? I ask myself: what does God spend his time doing? And I go and do that. Watts laughs incredulously. Stifles it. Weyland's not joking.
WEYLAND (CONT'D): Biotechnology was good to me. Fusion power. Lately doing well with gravity systems. He swivels his chair toward the window. Earth shines outside.
WEYLAND (CONT'D): But what's the first thing God did?
WATTS: He made the Heaven and the Earth. Weyland jabs a finger at her like she's won a carnival prize.
WEYLAND: That's what I'm talking about. You left out my favorite part. The piece about Earth. DAVID.
DAVID: For eons, Earth's climate swung from hothouse to ice age. Explosions of life, then mass extinctions. But twelve thousand years ago the swings stopped. The Holocene Epoch began - a period of anomalous tranquility. The rise of civilization began only then. Holloway and Watts stare at DAVID with new appreciation.
HOLLOWAY: That's right.
WATTS: And that change coincides with a visit by the Engineers. They didn't just change us. They changed our world.
WEYLAND: That's the piece I mean. Engineering Earth. God stuff.
WEYLAND (CONT'D): My people checked your science. They say it's solid. He pulls a thick contract out. Drops it in front of Holloway.
WEYLAND (CONT'D): I'll give you your expedition. Ship and crew, supplies, support. One condition. Holloway picks up the contract with the cautious joy of a man double-checking a lottery ticket. His voice is husky:
HOLLOWAY: What's that?
WEYLAND: You get the discovery. Control of the site. But any technology you find? Anything at all. That's mine. Holloway reaches out slowly and picks up the contract. Riffles the pages of small-print legalese.
WEYLAND (CONT'D): You take DAVID with you. My eyes and ears. And Vickers...you're going too. Vickers stares at Weyland in shock.
WHITE LANDSCAPE: A glittering formation of white crystals. Diamond on diamond. The structures grow more complex as the view widens. Leaves and branches of crystal. A shimmering field of white jewels. A landscape of white crystals, smooth as snow.
CORRIDOR: DAVID walks the ship's long central corridor. The ship is silent. The lights dimmed to blue. He is alone.
HYPERSLEEP COMPARTMENT: A long steel room containing a dozen plexiglass sarcophagi, six on each side. Sleep freezers. Inside each freezer: the shadowy shape of a human body rimed with frost. DAVID walks through the compartment, surveying the sleepers.
WORKROOM: DAVID sits at a display table, moving intricate technical documents across the surface with waves of his hands. His eyes intent on his work. If he is reading, then he`s reading at a speed no human could match.
WHITE LANDSCAPE: We pull away from the frosted crystalline horizon, the smooth white curves like snowy fields. Form becomes clear. It's the body of a woman. It's Watts.
HYPERSLEEP COMPARTMENT: All of the freezers are open and empty, save two. Holloway lies in one. In the next, Watts. Three men in blue coveralls crouch beside Watts's freezer, staring inside. They are DOWNS, 30, a lean fidgety crewman. STILLWELL, 40, a sturdy fellow with the geniality of a labrador. And KAMAROV, 26, whose dark, brooding air belongs to a man twice his age.
DOWNS: Look at that. Kamarov opens the lid of Watt's freezer. Leans over her. Watts stirs in her sleep, a drowsy angel.
KAMAROV: She wakes up slow. Watts wakes to find three men looming above her. Disoriented, she pulls away. Tangles her hands in her IV lines.
STILLWELL: Just looking.
HOLLOWAY: Give us a moment, will you? The crewmen file out: Stillwell sheepishly, Downs and Kamarov surly. Holloway goes to Watts. Gently removes the IV lines from her ankles while she plucks the ones from her arms.
WATTS: I'm out of sorts. Sorry.
HOLLOWAY: Never worry. He helps her up.
WATTS: My head's buzzing.
HOLLOWAY: You just slept two and a half years. It'll pass.
WATTS: Like you've done this before.
HOLLOWAY: I've read all about it. Two ship's officers enter the room wearing blue coveralls with rank insignia: GLASSE, 45, a stocky man with thick black hair, and BRICK, 50, a bald man with a bristling mustache. They look at Watts and Holloway with little pleasure.
BRICK: Sleep okay?
WATTS: Yes, thanks...
GLASSE: Captain'll see you now.
JANEK: Zeta Two Reticuli was surveyed already. A hundred years ago.
WATTS: By an unmanned probe. Very crude.
JANEK: No Earthlike planets.
WATTS: No.
JANEK: So what are you looking for?
HOLLOWAY: Proof of the Engineers' existence.
WATTS: Confirmation of Professor Holloway's theories would change everything. There'd be science before Holloway and science after. Janek rubs his face wearily with his hands.
JANEK: Your ticket. I'll put the ship where you want. Run your scans.
HOLLOWAY: Captain, your crew's been up for a week. We could've used the time. Why'd you wait to wake us?
JANEK: Better for discipline. (off their silence) Men ship out as prospectors for one reason: the percentage. Find a gold mine or a habitable planet, and you're set for life. (he laughs bitterly) But this contract says no percentage. No bounty. Just triple pay. The men aren't happy.
HOLLOWAY: You unhappy too?
JANEK: I'm always unhappy. He stands. Presses his palm against a wall panel. A safe opens. He pulls out a massive pistol in a gunbelt. Tosses the orders into the safe. Lays the gun atop them and locks it up.
SCIENTISTS' CABIN: Holloway and Watts take possession of their cabin: a simple but spacious room with twin beds and a window to the stars. They drop duffel bags on the bed. Holloway surveys the arrangement. Frowns. He releases the magnets that lock the beds down. Slides the beds together.
WATTS: DAVID. I wondered when we'd see you.
DAVID: I trust your database is in order. I set it up myself.
WATTS: All's well, I think. DAVID turns to go. Hesitates in the doorway.
DAVID: I should tell you: the time you spent sleeping, I spent studying your research. Holloway and Watts look at the android, his words sinking in.
WATTS: You studied our work for two and a half years.
DAVID: It's quite a data set.
HOLLOWAY: So you've seen everything. Well. What do you think? DAVID glances over the documents displayed around the room.
DAVID: Your hypothesis is...bold. The audacity of it. Your climate data's undeniable: the Holocene Epoch was engineered. Dr. Watts, your genetic studies are equally conclusive. Pulses of cultural change are harder to prove, but even there your case is strong. I believe in your "Engineers."
BREAK ROOM: A utilitarian sitting room. Steel benches and table bolted to the deck. Seated here are two Weyland Industries technicians: ANDREW CHANCE, 50, a stocky computer engineer with a genial bearing and a bristling salt-and-pepper mustache. MONA RAVEL, 45, a dour, rangy woman with a plain face, her hair pulled severely back. A physicist and chemist. They wear black Weyland Industries jackets. They radiate intelligence and competence. These are pros. DAVID leads Holloway and Watts past the break room. Holloway spots the technicians. Strides in to greet them.
HOLLOWAY: Weyland Industries! Mr. Chance. Ms. Ravel. You remember Dr. Watts. Watts and the technicians exchange greetings.
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D): About the materials I gave you. Some of the technical aspects...
CHANCE: We'll handle our end of the job.
RAVEL: If there is a job. Holloway blinks at her. Chance explains, not unkindly:
CHANCE: We only have a job if you find something.
CORRIDOR: Holloway and Watts follow the imperturbable DAVID down a steel corridor to Vickers's cabin door.
VICKERS'S SUITE: An open-plan cabin like an urban loft apartment. Watts and Holloway follow DAVID inside. Vickers rises to meet them. The walls are industrial steel - but the floors are lushly carpeted, the furniture opulent. A king-sized bed, a mahogany desk, a dining table. Gleaming machines ensure Vickers never need step outside: a private hypersleep freezer, an autokitchen, a medical pod.
WATTS: Is that a Pauling medical pod? There's only ten of those things on Earth! I guess nine, now.
VICKERS: I told Mr. Weyland I wouldn't compromise my standard of living. He accommodated me.
HOLLOWAY: I know, I had to cut my manifest. This used to be the number four cargo bay.
VICKERS: What can I do for you, Professor? Holloway gestures with the slate he's brought with him.
HOLLOWAY: We're about to reach the system periphery. I thought you'd want to see the search protocols we -
VICKERS: No. I was set to be the next CEO of Weyland Industries. Then you came along and sold Mr. Weyland on...this. So here I am. Out of the running. I'll go where I'm told. But don't ask me to play along.
WATTS: But when you get back...
VICKERS: I'll be five years behind the curve. Out of touch. Over.
HOLLOWAY: You might make the discovery of the ages. Vickers looks at him as if she's dealing with a child.
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D): You don't believe in what we're doing.
VICKERS: Mr. Weyland believes. That's enough. She walks them toward the door. Interview's over.
VICKERS (CONT'D): Now we're out of communication, you can tell the crew what we're doing.
WATTS: They don't know? They volunteered.
VICKERS: They volunteered blind. Classified job, triple pay.
CARGO BAY: The crew - Brick, Glasse, Stillwell, Downs, and Kamarov - sit on crates in an improvised lecture hall. Holloway and Watts in front of them. Janek at the back of the room. A hologram shows ancient images of divine visitations. The crew is visibly spooked.
DOWNS: Aliens.
GLASSE: You shitting me? Stillwell is staring at the frightening images: gods and titans towering over mortals.
HOLLOWAY: I think all our mythologies are race- memories of the Engineers. Horus the Sun God. Prometheus bringing fire from heaven. A pillar of fire, a pillar of smoke. The Engineers are the gods.
KAMAROV: The mythology gods maybe. God is God.
STILLWELL: Kamarov. Let him talk. Stillwell's staring unhappily at the ancient images: gods towering over mortals, inhuman and terrifying.
STILLWELL (CONT'D): So we're going to meet these things?
WATTS: We probably won't meet anyone. You'd expect a star-traveling race to generate radio or laser signals. Fusion drives and gravity drives have clear signatures. But Zeta Two Reticuli is silent. And the Engineers have gone missing on Earth.
WATTS (CONT'D): By the pattern, they should've come to Earth seventeen centuries ago. And again six centuries ago. But no sign. After twelve thousand years...they stopped coming.
BRICK: Why?
HOLLOWAY: Exactly. Why?
JANEK: "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" They turn. Janek grins at Holloway across the cargo bay.
JANEK (CONT'D): Is that the question you've come light- years to answer?
HOLLOWAY: Only my first question. I have many.
JANEK: Welcome to Zeta Two Reticuli. Edge of the system. Open her eyes.
JANEK: Overlay. A heads-up display appears, overlaid on the glass. The sun is labeled ZETA2 RETICULI. Markers point out the planets and trace the ellipses of their orbits. Like magic, the planets swell into colorful orbs, each labeled: Alpha, Beta, Gamma...
DOWNS: Seven planets. Two hot rocks, two gas giants, three snowballs. Nothing Earthlike. Watts grins at Holloway, eyes shining.
WATTS: First humans in the system. Vickers walks onto the Bridge with DAVID.
JANEK: Director. Good of you to join us.
VICKERS: What did I miss?
CAPTAIN JANEK: Just getting warmed up.
(TO HOLLOWAY): Professor? You know what you want?
HOLLOWAY: EMR scan, thirty hertz to three hundred gigahertz. Spectroscopic passes on every planet and major moon. Infrared and albedo scan for hot spots and light sources.
CAPTAIN JANEK: Man knows what he wants. Run it.
TELESCOPE POV: The planet nearest the sun rushes closer as the mighty telescopes zoom in.
GLASSE: Negative on radio chatter system-wide. Nobody's talking.
BRICK: Negative for laser and maser. On the H.U.D., the data stream completes the last planet. Begins to illuminate the gas giants' moons.
GLASSE: No biological markers. No artificial light. No industry or agriculture. Dead system. Like always.
DOWNS: Piss-poor, too. Low in heavy elements.
BRICK: Got a hit! A moon. LV-426. The display centers on Epsilon, a gas giant with many moons. Data flickers around one of the larger moons: LV-426.
BRICK (CONT'D): Eighty-six percent Earth's mass. Atmosphere's nitrogen, methane, sulfates. Faint returns for a bunch of metals.
HOLLOWAY: Anything else? The sensors complete their pass on the system's last moon.
JANEK: That is all.
HOLLOWAY: Take us in.
JANEK: Downs. You heard the man.
DOWNS: Aye, Captain. Maneuvering. Eighteen hours to orbit.
PASSAGEWAY: Leaving the Bridge, Holloway and Watts find themselves walking aft alongside DAVID.
HOLLOWAY: DAVID. Enjoy the show?
DAVID: I don't know that I "enjoy" things. It was informative.
HOLLOWAY: It was, it was.
(TEASING): You know, I've seen more convincing humanoid robots. Watts smiles, watching Holloway's sport. DAVID's speech never varies from its agreeable tone.
DAVID: My design's not intended to convince. Simulating humanity is a complex task that diverts resources. My designers dispensed with that burden to optimize for intelligence.
WATTS: Why look like a man at all? Why not be a box on wheels?
DAVID: Being shaped like you, I can use spaces and equipment designed for you. But I'm not so limited. I hear frequencies you can't hear. I see wavelengths of light invisible to you. I move faster. Exert greater force. The scientists look at DAVID in wonder.
WATTS: You see yourself as a superman.
DAVID: No. He turns his unearthly eyes on them.
DAVID (CONT'D): Not a man at all.
SCIENTISTS' CABIN: Holloway and Watts lie on their bed in their clothes - her head on his chest.
WATTS: What if they're really there? (off his confusion) The Engineers. They could be there. Waiting for us. What then? He laughs.
HOLLOWAY: Then all my dreams come true.
HOLLOWAY: Start with passive systems. We're uninvited guests. Let's be quiet. That thought sends a nervous shiver through the others. Janek nods at Glass and Brick. They study their instruments.
BRICK: A lot of electromag, all random. That's lightning. Going to bugger up our scans.
HOLLOWAY: Go active. Mapping radar.
JANEK: Well, we just rang the doorbell, if anybody's listening. Kamarov shakes his head fearfully. Crosses himself.
HOLLOWAY: What do we see?
BRICK: Icecaps at the poles. Frozen methane. Cold down there. The display fills with light: a wave of terrain data sweeping across the moon's surface as the Magellan orbits.
GLASSE: Terrain data rezzing up. Hey! We got hard spots. Radar-opaque. Bright reflections. That's metal. A jolt of excitement pounds through everyone on the Bridge.
HOLLOWAY: That's not natural.
MILBURN: You see stuff like that sometimes. Mineral deposits. Volcanic ejecta.
GLASSE: Big one there. A new signal appears on the map. Brighter than the others.
HOLLOWAY: Still quiet?
BRICK: No comm signals. No signs of life.
HOLLOWAY: I want to get below the clouds.
GLASSE: Coming up on site seven. They crest a mountain higher than Everest. Before them stretches a dry barren plain. Scattered rocky peaks rise from the desert floor - an alien Monument Valley.
DOWNS: Nothing. Holloway points to a smaller mountain peak. Oddly regular.
HOLLOWAY: Look there. Janek expertly swings the Magellan sideways. The Magellan circles the mount, nose pointed inward. It revolves below the watchers: flat faces, clean edges - but cracked and timework. It glitters like coal.
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D): Are we recording? Glasse nods irritably. Of course they're recording. Vickers stares at the pyramidal peak, nonplussed. Teetering on the brink of belief. Watts scans the data readouts.
WATTS: Tungsten, tantalum, aluminum. That could be technology.
HOLLOWAY: Let's see the next one.
WATTS: Identical, apart from weathering.
MILBURN: Could be a rock formation. Carbon crystallizes like that. The scientists pay him no mind. They're past that.
HOLLOWAY: Let's see the big one.
BRICK: Closing on the major site... The ship descends into clear air. A stunning panorama unfolds before them: craters, hundreds of meters across, connected by trenches. Like a pattern of crop-circles sunk in the rock. In the middle of the central crater - a huge angular peak, larger than the others. The Magellan circles the site. It's awe-inspiring. Cryptic. Huge. Holloway stares in rapture. Glances at Watts: she nods, eyes shining. She's with him. The crew's still skeptical - but starting to wonder. They shake their heads and exchange looks.
BRICK (CONT'D): No radio. No heat sources. Cold as the grave.
HOLLOWAY: Nobody home. Watts looks out at the timeworn peak. Its eroded facets.
WATTS: I don't think anybody's been home for a long time.
HOLLOWAY: All right. Let's move. Janek glances at his instruments.
JANEK: There's only six hours of daylight left. Maybe you should hold off. Watts looks at him incredulously.
WATTS: We've got that outside the windows and you want to wait `til tomorrow?
WATTS: The air here will kill you, so keep an eye on your supply and watch your seals. Pathogen tests are clean.
HOLLOWAY: Move slowly. Stay together. Don't touch anything. Things may be more fragile than they look - or more dangerous. There might be technologies operating here we don't understand. The crew of the Magellan exchange uneasy looks. Still uncertain what to think.
HOLLOWAY: Tell me that's a natural formation.
(HE GRINS): Undeniable proof of alien civilization. You were here on this day, thirty-one December, year of our Lord 2172. History will remember your names. Watts stares at the iris. Its bottom-most blade is broken; it lies in rubble at the foot of the door. A dark knife-like aperture leads into the pyramid.
WATTS: The door's open.
JANEK: Son of a bitch. They were right. He turns to stare out the window at the pyramid's peak. Vickers turns and slips out of the Bridge. Hurries away.
VICKERS'S SUITE: Vickers strides through her quarters. On the far wall there are two small doors. She opens the first: steps into a luxurious bathroom. Washes a pill down with a tumbler of water. Returns to her cabin and opens the second small door.
HOLLOWAY: Jocelyn. Here. His voice trembles with urgency. He shines light on the rock. Symbols engraved on the dark surface. Dots, lines and arcs.
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D): The writing of the Engineers. Conclusive connection. DAVID stands beside them. Stares at the alien writing.
DAVID: Congratulations, Professor Holloway. Watts passes her light over the writing, recording it. They move on into the dark. DAVID lingers. Reading.
WATTS: Martin. Martin! But Holloway doesn't budge. Stares at the Apparition in fascination. Everyone else scatters - except DAVID, who stands stock-still by the wall. Watts watches as the Apparition walks right up to Holloway. Disappears with a sizzle of static as Holloway experiences the creature passing through him. Silence. Watts returns to Holloway's side. Stillwell and Downs are huddled on the deck. Milburn and Fifield have fallen back down the passageway.
FIFIELD: Christ. Christ!
RAVEL: It wasn't real.
MILBURN: We all saw it. Unseen by the others, DAVID reaches out and repeats his gesture in the air. A rumbling sound down the corridor, as before. Moments later, the Apparition appears round the corner again. They stand their ground: the ghostly giant strides toward them, exactly as before, and disappears with a crackle.
HOLLOWAY: Recording?
FIFIELD: No more. I'm out.
HOLLOWAY: Fifield. Get a grip.
FIFIELD: I'm a prospector. You find a load of bauxite, I'm your man. But not this.
MILBURN: I should go with him. Buddy system.
HOLLOWAY: Fine. He hauls a heavy rolling case out of the cargo rover.
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D): You can deploy the drones. Drop them in the first or second nexus on your way back.
FIFIELD: Give us a rover.
HOLLOWAY: And half our gear? It's no more than a mile. You can walk it. Sulking, Milburn takes the rolling case. The remaining explorers watch Fifield and Milburn backtrack into the dark.
HOLLOWAY: This should lead to the core of the pyramid.
WATTS: Jack it open? Or cut through?
HOLLOWAY: Let's do as little damage as we can. Ravel waves a sensor over the wall.
RAVEL: There's power. Current flowing in the wall. Chance begins to inspect the frame of the door.
CHANCE: Maybe we can hack it. Has to be a mechanism...
DAVID: Pull up a rover. I want to get up there.
JANEK: Director. Taking an interest?
VICKERS: It's my operation, isn't it?
FIFIELD: What do you think?
MILBURN: Grand Central Station. They open the case. CAMERA PROBES tumble out: spheres the size of softballs, studded with lenses and sensors. Tiny lights come on as the probes awaken. They roll off, dispersing to investigate every passageway. Bumbling into walls and pillars, reversing. Exploring by random walk.
FIFIELD: Let's check the feed. Gimme the map.
MILBURN: You had the map unit.
FIFIELD: You don't have the map? They stare at each other.
MILBURN: Are you serious? He trudges back the way they came, in disgust.
MILBURN (CONT'D): Come on.
DAVID: Looks like a three-state switch. A deep BOOM, echoing inside the ancient walls. Nothing moves.
DAVID (CONT'D): One moment... He moves a control. BOOM. The immense door begins to rise.
RAVEL: This is something, now.
DAVID: Yes. Yes, it is.
WATTS: Martin. This air's breathable. The core chamber brightens as the sun outside moves into alignment. The shaft of light perfectly centered. A vast SIGH as if the pyramid itself is breathing. A fat drop of water falls on Watts's glove. She looks up in surprise. Another falls on her visor. And then it's raining inside the pyramid. Water trickles into the chasms, inundating the mossy growths that cling to the walls. Holloway looks at Watts with a little boy's grin.
HOLLOWAY: Miracles and wonders! The shaft of light moves on. The core chamber dims slightly. The rainfall stops as suddenly as it started. The explorers follow the main path around the periphery of the chamber, past a gallery of mysterious machines. There are marvels in the shadows. Cells in the dark apparatus open on startling deposits of color: translucent alabaster flutes. Honeycombs of pure gold. Matrices of crystal. Watts waves a scanning instrument as she walks.
WATTS: Intense field readings. Huge power sources here.
HOLLOWAY: Space below us. A big space. As they stand looking, a probe bumbles up to the opening and goes bounding down the ramp. Watts laughs.
WATTS: How does this work? She begins to descend on foot. Holloway behind her. Stillwell, Downs, and Kamarov grudgingly follow. But DAVID looks away across the cavernous chamber - fixated on the central crystal. He beckons Ravel and Chance to follow him, and walks away. Ravel and Chance look at each other in astonishment. Uncertainly, they follow DAVID.
LOWER PASSAGE: Holloway, Watts, and the crewmen reach the bottom of the ramp, breathing hard. A cargo rover trundles down after them. They look back up. The ramp above them is empty.
HOLLOWAY: Ravel. Chance. Where've you gone? DAVID! Where are you? (to Watts, indignantly) They didn't come down! But Watts is staring through an archway. Transfixed.
WATTS: Look. She walks in. Holloway follows.
CONTROL CONCOURSE: A passageway punctuated by alcoves as big as band-shells. In each alcove stands a biomechanical apparatus - shaped from the same dark material as the pyramid itself. Each apparatus implies by its design that a giant is meant to fit inside it. Holloway and Watts walk the concourse, playing their lights over the dark machinery. Their footsteps echo.
WATTS: Do you see, the size of them? Like that ghost we saw...
HOLLOWAY: It wasn't a ghost. Where are the others? I don't want to go back up. Watts fiddles with her suit's comm controls. Listening.
WATTS: They switched to channel three. I hear them talking. They're okay.
HOLLOWAY: We should stay together.
MILBURN: This is not the same place.
FIFIELD: It is! That is the same freaky thing we saw before. He points at a detail of the architecture.
MILBURN: No it's not! The other one was more... sort of...fuck it. (taps his comm) Milburn to Magellan. Come in. Static.
INTERSECTION: Holloway and Watts round a corner and stop in their tracks. Kamarov, Stillwell, and Downs almost run into them. The scientists stand frozen. In front of them lies a dead giant. An ENGINEER. If he were standing, he would be fifteen feet tall. He is roughly human in shape. Barrel-chested. Withered to the bones. There are bulky protrusions fused with his flesh: hard to say whether they are equipment or parts of his body.
KAMAROV: God in Heaven.
WATTS: Martin. Martin.
HOLLOWAY: I know. Look. He lifts his light. Beyond the dead giant, a vision of Hell: A dozen DEAD ENGINEERS lie heaped against a sealed door. Twisted in postures of torment, murdered in the attempt to escape. All bear horrific wounds. Scene of an ancient massacre.
HOLLOWAY: "There were giants in the earth in those days...and when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, they bare children to them, who became mighty men." Genesis six four. Lays a gloved hand reverently on the giant's ribs.
DOWNS: You said don't touch anything! You said don't touch anything!
HOLLOWAY: Peace.
CHANCE: The size of them!
HOLLOWAY: In all the old mythologies, the visitors from the sky were giants. Watts joins Holloway beside the dead Engineer. Touches the corpse in her own turn. It's hard as stone: ossified. She traces the ancient, terrible wounds.
WATTS: They were killed. All of them. Downs stands staring at the dead giant, as shaken as Kamarov.
DOWNS: We shouldn't be here.
HOLLOWAY: Come on. The dead can't hurt you. (adjusts his communicator) DAVID. Chance. Ravel. I've got something here. Static.
WATTS: Communications are going to hell.
JANEK: All hands. Back to the ship. We got a mean storm front rolling in. I repeat. All hands...
HOLLOWAY: We've found something here! I'm not walking away for bad weather.
JANEK: Holloway! I got two-hundred-kilometer winds with airborne silica and enough static to fry your suits. Get your asses back here! Now!
WATTS: Help me unload!
HOLLOWAY: Jocelyn! With inhuman reflexes DAVID reacts. Grabs a tether. Latches it to his suit. Locks it to an anchor point on the wall. Dives into the storm. A ballet nearly too fast to follow.
HOLLOWAY: Day one. Smiles of wonder as what they've seen comes home.
DOWNS: Got to hand it to you, professor. You were right. Both of you.
CHANCE: What's in the tarp? What'd you bring back? The explorers from Watts and Holloway's party exchange looks and burst into laughter.
WATTS: You don't want to know.
STILLWELL: Shit. We're two helmets short. He points. The lockers labeled MILBURN and FIFIELD stand closed. The helmet racks empty. The laughter cuts off.
KAMAROV: They didn't come in! They stare at each other, listening to the wind wail outside.
JANEK: Between the wind speeds and the static electricity, there's no safe way to get to you. You're going to have to hunker down until it passes. How are your provisions?
JANEK: Honey sacks?
FIFIELD: Yeah, we're piped.
MILBURN: I hate these fucking things.
JANEK: Maybe next time you'll mind your maps. Keep your heads down. We'll come get you in the morning. A burst of static answers him: Fifield's voice scrambled by the storm. Unintelligible.
JANEK (CONT'D): Magellan out.
HOLLOWAY: My friends. What we do here marks the greatest achievement of our species. Contact with another civilization. Humanity came of age today, on this moon. You were there. (raises his glass) To history. They raise cups and drink. Even the crew moved by the moment. But Janek smiles crookedly and toasts again.
JANEK: To Milburn and Fifield. The first human beings to freak out, get lost, and sleep in their suits in the ruins of an alien civilization.
MILBURN: What are you looking for?
FIFIELD: (groping along the wall) Someplace things can't come at us.
MILBURN: What's gonna come at us?
DAVID: The core of the pyramid. You see. Vickers goes rigid, looking at it: avarice in her eyes.
VICKERS: We're going to protocol two.
DAVID: I understand.
LABORATORY: A high-tech science facility behind glass. Watts and Holloway, in lab gloves and smocks, open the dumbwaiter:
WATTS: Martin. Look. She traces the head with an ultrasound probe: under the vibrations a seam opens up around the edge of the face. She gets a fingertip into the seam. Works with a probe. Pries away the long-dead Engineer's mask. It comes free. The visage revealed is human, except for its giant scale. White-skinned. Earless. Hairless. Withered but beautiful as a Greek statue. Eyes closed. An expression of suffering on its face. Watts drops the ultrasound probe in shock.
WATTS (CONT'D): They look like us.
HOLLOWAY: We look like them. Genesis 1:27. "And God created man in his own image. In his own image created He him." Vickers and DAVID stand outside the lab window, staring in at the god's head. Vickers looks shaken. DAVID, fascinated. Watts covers her nose in revulsion. A horrible stench: The Engineer head begins to disintegrate in front of them. Flesh oozing, skin peeling. Accelerated decay.
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D): It's breaking down.
WATTS: Formaldehyde! Urgently they ransack cabinets and storage rooms. Watts finds a clear plastic drum and dumps its contents. Holloway drags five-gallon jugs of preservative out of a cabinet. DAVID watches through the window, almost amused.
DAVID: Mortal after all. They lift the rotting head into the drum, retching. Fingers skidding in putrefaction. They pour formaldehyde over it. As soon as the head is immersed they rush to strip off their reeking gloves and smocks, scrubbing their hands. The god's head sits in its murky vat, shedding skin and tofu- like chunks of white flesh. The noble face disintegrating. Watts and Holloway stare at it, breathing hard from their work. Vickers flicks on the intercom from outside the window.
VICKERS: Your cadaver's interesting. But I'm more interested in the machinery in the pyramid. The core chamber. What do you think it does? Watts stares at Vickers incredulously.
WATTS: How could anyone know...
HOLLOWAY: I know what it does. Silence. Holloway looks at Vickers wearily, as if he's seen this conversation coming. He glances at Watts.
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D): Think. What we've seen. What we know. Watts rises to the challenge. Thinking on her feet.
WATTS: Twenty-four pyramids scattered around the moon's equator. Massive power supplies. Vents in the walls. Atmosphere changes. Breeder tanks... (she's got it) The pyramids are terraforming machines. Holloway grins, exuberant. His theory playing out perfectly. He doesn't see Vickers stiffen. Her hands curling into fists.
HOLLOWAY: That's why Earth's ancient cultures built pyramids: in imitation of the gods.
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D): Twelve thousand years ago, beings from the sky set pyramids on the Earth and transformed the world. That's what they were doing here - before their civilization failed. Watts stares at the head in its tank. The severed neck.
WATTS: It didn't fail. It was wiped out.
MILBURN: Look at this! A CENTIPEDE, three feet long and thick as man's thumb. Its hard shell is gray. It has a hammer-head like a shark.
FIFIELD: Jesus! Put it down! He leaps back, wild-eyed. Milburn laughs at him. Lets the eyeless centipede wind its segmented body around his space-suited arm. In the flat face, a white vertical slit appears. Changes quickly to a horizontal position; opens enough to suggest a mouth. Milburn doesn't notice this development.
MILBURN: Relax. Your suit's bug-proof. Hell, it's bulletproof. The centipede spirals around his arm, glittering, its body moving in fluid waves. The blind head quests between his fingers. Milburn loses his nerve as the thing's mouth suddenly gapes wide as a shark's.
MILBURN (CONT'D): That's enough. He tries to pull it off. The centipede locks its segments together and digs in with its body. It might as well be made of iron.
MILBURN (CONT'D): Get it off! It's crushing me! Fifield pulls out a utility knife. Cuts into the centipede's body behind its head. A gout of greed ACID spills over Milburn's glove. Smoke rises as the acid quickly burns a hole through the material. Milburn's shout of astonishment turns to a wail of agony.
MILBURN (CONT'D): AHH! Help me! Christ! The centipede snakes into the smoking hole in the glove. Crawls upward into Milburn's suit - toward his head.
HOLLOWAY: You won't get anything. Tissue's too degraded. Hmm. Brain chamber's massive, even proportionately.
WATTS: Neural paths are still conductive.
GLASSE: Incredible. The image dissolves into noise. Error messages flicker across the display. Watts sighs.
WATTS: Formaldehyde's killing the tissue. Holloway stares at Watts, awe on his face.
HOLLOWAY: Did you record that?
WATTS: Of course.
WATTS (CONT'D): The lens is where the phase shift happens. The uncorrected view through the lens is blurry.
WATTS (CONT'D): Glasse. I want to look through these lenses. Can you seal them and do the optical correction? Glasse reaches out and plucks the magnifying goggles from Watts's forehead. He grins.
GLASSE: Got an idea about that.
MILBURN: Cut off my arm. Cut off my - He convulses. Spits blood. The head of the centipede emerges between his teeth. He seizes. Choking and dying.
FIFIELD: Jesus Christ! He leaps up. Backs away. Runs into the dark.
FIFIELD: Fifield to Magellan. Come on, come on. Anybody, seriously! God damn it! Scarabs flit through the darkness around him. They alight on his shoulders. Crawl over his visor. Obscuring his vision.
FIFIELD (CONT'D): Get off! He swats at his visor, killing some. The crushed insects produce acid that eats into the plexiglass in seconds.
FIFIELD (CONT'D): Shit. He twists, craning with his flashlight to inspect himself. Brushes scarabs away right and left. Acid opens a hole in his visor. Scarabs are inside. Buzzing around his head. Fifield freaks out, clawing at his helmet. A scarab bites his cheek.
FLASH ON:: The microscopic world - as strange DNA invades Fifield's bloodstream. Virulent strands of protein attack the native DNA, transforming...
FIFIELD: As his pupils dilate, breath hissing into his nostrils. His expanding body stiffens as if shocked by a powerful electric current. He screams. Falls, convulsing.
WATTS: We found the gods. And they've been murdered.
HOLLOWAY: You've pried too many arrowheads out of old skulls to get squeamish now. They've been dead what, eighteen hundred years? Two thousand?
WATTS: What could kill them? Holloway contemplates the question.
HOLLOWAY: Who knows? (he laughs bitterly)
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D): But I guess we know why they never came back to us. Something killed them off - back around the time of Christ. Maybe He was one of them! A great teacher, sent from Heaven? Jesus. The last Engineer.
WATTS: Martin, stop! She slaps at him. Holloway laughs.
BRIDGE: Janek stands at the Bridge window, staring out into the storm. Buffeting clouds and howling winds. The lighthouse beams of the Magellan's beacons sweeping through the cloud. He plays his squeeze box in the teeth of the storm.
JANEK: You'll come a-waltzing, Matilda, with me... Behind him, DAVID appears on the Bridge. Steals across the Bridge to a ladder. Descends into the compartment below...
DAVID: Activate. Administrative override.
VICKERS: Captain Shepherd.
SHEPHERD: (squinting in the light) Reporting. Lydia Vickers. I'm your authority.
SHEPHERD (CONT'D): Understood.
VICKERS: I'll brief you on the way. We need to move.
SHEPHERD: No breakfast?
CORRIDOR: Vickers strides forward. Four soldiers at her heels: Captain Shepherd, VIGODA, RAY, and CARD. They walk in unison, their boots drumming on the deck.
SCIENTISTS' CABIN: Holloway and Watts lie sleeping. The distant drum of marching feet rouses them. Watts frowns at Holloway.
WATTS: What is that?
HOLLOWAY: Where is everybody? We can't - (he stops short) Who are you?
VIGODA: Captain Janek took his crew out to retrieve his missing men. They never came in.
HOLLOWAY: And you are...
VIGODA: Vigoda. Weyland Security detail. The scientists are dumbfounded. His presence is impossible.
WATTS: Where'd you come from?
VIGODA: Director's call to brief you on that. I'm supposed to escort you to the worksite.
HOLLOWAY: Worksite? Vigoda glances at a mapping unit.
VIGODA: Haven't been out yet. I understand it's in some kind of pyramid.
VICKERS'S SUITE: Vickers sits calmly at her desk. Holloway and Watts stand in front of her, bristling.
HOLLOWAY: Why wasn't I told about these additional personnel?
VICKERS: They're my personnel. On my ship.
WATTS: What are the guns for? Vickers looks at them unflappably. Sure of her ground now.
VICKERS: I'm being careful. These new finds give our work a new importance.
WATTS: You should have talked to us. Martin's mission leader. That's in our contract.
VICKERS: The second you found alien technology, control of this mission reverted to me. That's in your contract too. Watts and Holloway exchange grim looks. Vickers has them.
VICKERS (CONT'D): Mr. Weyland's pouring trillions into Mars. He's spent a fortune building ships like the Magellan to search for colony planets. But Earthlike worlds are vanishingly rare. The right distance from the sun, the right atmosphere, enough water... She glances across the suite at her holographic display: a live feed from the pyramid worksite, where DAVID works on the terraforming equipment.
VICKERS (CONT'D): This is a technology to transform worlds. He'll never give it up. (she turns to face them) And neither will I.
HOLLOWAY: The science must come first. You can wait until we've documented...
VICKERS: You're standing on an alien world courtesy of Weyland Industries. Be grateful. Watts approaches the holography terminal, staring at the images in horror.
WATTS: What are they doing in there?!
CATACOMBS: Janek drives a cargo rover carrying a search party, flashlight beams sweeping: Stillwell, Glasse, Downs, and Brick. Janek studies an electronic map as he drives.
GLASSE: Milburn. Fifield. You read me? Come back.
JANEK: We should be getting beacons off their suits.
STILLWELL: Shielding in the walls?
BRICK: Suits could have failed.
JANEK: Both suits?
LOWER PASSAGE: Holloway and Watts pass the dead Engineers they discovered the previous day.
WATTS: We found the tomb of the gods, and brought grave-robbers right to the door.
HOLLOWAY: Let them scratch. This find's too big to ruin. There's two dozen pyramids on this moon. Anyway, they're on the wrong track. That's infrastructure. Holloway plays his flashlight over the biomechanical apparatuses lining the walls.
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D): The core activity of the complex was down here. They turn a corner. DEAD ENGINEERS lie scattered over the floor in front of them. Desiccated and skeletal. Long dead. Watts moves among them, fascinated. These Engineers all died of explosive chest wounds: ribs bent outward from within. They are otherwise unmarked. Holloway's more interested in the mechanisms: high-tech iron maidens, built to fit the bodies of giants. Some suggest sitting positions, others standing. Their design is invasive: meant not merely to embrace, but to penetrate, to fuse.
WATTS: Something different killed these.
SHADOWY COLONNADE: Watts and Holloway explore a wide colonnade. She is still distracted by the ancient dead; he by the machinery. Holloway walks down a narrow branching hall. So intent on the mechanisms in the walls, he almost doesn't see the AIRSHAFT plunging down into darkness in front of him. He stops just in time. Turns back...
WATTS: Martin? Martin! An iris door closes over the shaft.
COLONNADE: Searching, Watts walks anxiously through the dark, sweeping with her light. Shouting for Holloway. She breaks into a run.
STILLWELL: What happened to him? Stillwell removes the dead man's helmet. The CENTIPEDE scuttles out onto the deck: doubled in size. Stillwell leaps back with a cry. Janek pulls his pistol. Puts three rounds through the bug. It dies in a spray of acid that burns holes in the black floor. Janek watches in astonishment as a pin-prick dot of acid eats a pit in his gunbarrel.
JANEK: Where's the rest of him?
DOWNS: No sign.
JANEK: All right. We're done here. All hands back aboard.
STILLWELL: What about Milburn? They look down at the ravaged corpse.
JANEK: We can't bring the body aboard. God knows what's in there. Bag him. We'll put him in an ore hopper.
VICKERS: Captain Shepherd. Consider yourself responsible for my personal security.
JANEK: I've just lost a third of my crew. I'm not sending any more men off into the dark.
WATTS: We can't leave Martin out there.
JANEK: Get Vickers to lend you some soldiers.
WATTS: She says "her forces are committed." Janek sighs. Glances at the rover: Milburn dead in the back, Stillwell, Downs and Kamarov looking jumpy and eager to go. Downs shakes his head grimly: No way.
DAVID (CONT'D): You'll be safe.
WATTS: Thank you.
JANEK: Put him in the number one ore hopper. Get the scrubbers on in the airlock. Sterilize everything.
MINUTES LATER: Stillwell uses a remote to lower an ore hopper from the belly of the ship. A thick steel bin on heavy chains. He loads the body bag into the hopper.
DAVID: You and Holloway should work with me. I'm learning amazing things. This mechanism - the first layer uses energy fields to catalyze chemical reactions. The second can suspend the strong and weak forces - transmuting one element into another. The third layer builds customized bacteria. Seeds the air with them. It creates life as a tool, to change worlds.
WATTS: I can't think about this now!
DAVID: You should.
(HE SIGHS): I understand. You're emotional.
WATTS: I'm human.
DAVID: That's what I mean.
WATTS: No.
DAVID: I see light. Watts squints into the darkness. She sees nothing.
WATTS: Janek, hang on... She sees it. A dim light bobbing far ahead in the passageway. She runs forward - finds Holloway staggering blearily toward her, leaning on the wall. His helmet and most of his gear are missing; only his chest lamp shines.
WATTS (CONT'D): We've got him!
(TO HOLLOWAY): Martin! Where's your helmet? He's disoriented: he stares at her face for a moment before she registers. His teeth chatter. He's freezing.
HOLLOWAY: Broken. I fell. Little...disoriented. I've just been... He waves a hand vaguely at the tunnels behind him. DAVID removes his own helmet. Fits it over Holloway's head.
DAVID: Here. I can do without this.
WATTS: Let's get you home.
JANEK: I didn't think I'd see you again. You know we lost two men. Holloway still looks too weary to think straight. He nods.
HOLLOWAY: She told me. I'm sorry. He stands abruptly, swaying a little.
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D): I need to lie down. We'll size things up in the morning. Fair enough?
JANEK: Of course.
PASSAGEWAY: Holloway and Watts walk aft toward their cabin. Watts looks worried - but Holloway shows little of the weakness he just claimed to feel.
WATTS: What happened to you?
HOLLOWAY: Not here.
HOLLOWAY: Jocelyn. I saw something. God, my mouth tastes like an old boot. He spits. Rinses. She touches the mark on his neck.
WATTS: What's this?
HOLLOWAY: Neck-ring of my suit, I think. Fell on it. He rubs his neck, eyes far away. Watts watches him curiously.
WATTS: What did you see?
HOLLOWAY: After my fall, I woke up walking. Delirious. My helmet wasn't right. I took it off. I was in and out. I just wandered. I went up into a huge space like a cathedral. And I found a model of the galaxy. Floating in the air.
WATTS: Are you okay? You sound...
HOLLOWAY: This was real. My headset video is wherever my helmet is...but my suit tracker will show where I was. He turns to her.
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D): Listen. This star map had a marker representing Earth. Very clear. Another marker I'm sure represents this moon. But there were others. At least seven or eight more. Watts stares at him, her eyes coming alight.
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D): The Engineers aren't from here. This moon's just an outpost. Abandoned. But if we follow that map, we may yet make contact with a living civilization.
WATTS: Martin.
HOLLOWAY: The location of the Engineer worlds is the real prize. Next to that, Weyland's terraforming is chump change. We need to get coordinates. And keep them from the Company. We have to play this smart.
WATTS: All right.
HOLLOWAY: Two men dead...Vickers is jumpy. As soon as she gets what she wants, she'll take this ship home. We have to move fast. Holloway trembles. A sheen of sweat on his skin.
WATTS: We will. You all right? He's frightened. Brazens through it. Pulls her into his arms.
HOLLOWAY: I'm fine, now. He kisses her.
BEDROOM: Holloway tumbles Watts onto the bed. Pulls her shirt off. They struggle out of their clothes, clinging to one another. Holloway's ill at ease: something's wrong inside him, he feels it. He dives into Watts as if for refuge. They make love. Sitting atop Holloway, Watts lays a hand on his chest.
WATTS: Your heart's beating so hard.
HOLLOWAY: That's your fault. Vulnerability in his voice. Fear under the surface. He rolls on top of her. Drives her into the mattress. She holds him protectively: not deceived by his bravado. Suddenly Holloway tenses, muscles rigid. Shuddering. Watts draws breath through her teeth with a hiss. Eyes open. Her fingers rake his back. He SCREAMS. Horribly. Eyes bulging. Tendons standing out of his throat. Watts jumps violently underneath him.
WATTS: Martin! Martin! He begins to convulse. She rolls him onto the bed beside her, trying to contain his spasms. His teeth grind.
WATTS (CONT'D): Martin! A horrible CRACK. In the middle of Holloway's chest, beneath the sternum, a grotesque head pushes out through the skin. A PARASITE. Blood fountains from the ruinous wound. Holloway goes into a massive seizure. Violently lashing out. Watts stares at the parasite fighting its way out of his body. It is white and boneless. Glistening. It flails its hideous lunging jaw. Watts screams and screams. The parasite frees itself from its savage womb and turns on Watts. She slaps at it blindly. It HISSES at her. She squirms away across the floor, tangled in the bloody sheet. The thing comes after her.
SCIENTISTS' CABIN: The parasite chases Watts across the floor. She leaps into the clothes-locker and slams the steel door. The parasite flattens itself. Slick as an octopus, it begins to slide under the locker door. Watts shrieks in horror. Stillwell bursts into the cabin, Janek right behind him. Quick as a cat, the parasite darts to a floor vent and slithers bonelessly between the bars. Watts bursts out of the locker, naked and bloodied. Rushes to Holloway where he lies on the gory mattress, a horrific hole in his chest. He is beyond all help.
WATTS: Martin. Martin!
BREAK ROOM: Watts sits at a steel table, deep in shock. She wears an oversized crew coverall: her skin still streaked with dried blood under the fabric. A knot of crewmen around her. Janek, Stillwell, Brick, Glasse and Downs. Janek looks at Glasse.
JANEK: Take care of her. Get her a sedative. Downs. Get Holloway into a freezer. Everybody else with me.
HYPERSLEEP COMPARTMENT: Holloway's body lies frozen in his hypersleep freezer, blue with frost. The horrific wound yawning in his chest. Watts enters. Cleaned up. She opens the freezer. Her hand caresses Holloway's cold cheek tenderly. Slides over his collarbone - lies flat on his chest above his awful wound.
GLASSE: You don't want to see that... She turns on him fiercely.
WATTS: I want to understand.
JANEK: All right! Listen up. I expect you all know what... Watts enters. They all stare at her, knowing what she's been through. With averted eyes she crosses the room. Sits alone.
JANEK (CONT'D): We've got some kind of parasite aboard ship.
VICKERS: I suggest you kill it.
DOWNS: There's a bright idea.
KAMAROV: Show us where it is, lady. We just spent five hours looking for the damn thing.
WATTS: We found Engineers who died like Martin. Silence. They all turn to look at her.
WATTS (CONT'D): Explosive wounds in the chest. Whatever killed Martin is the same thing that killed the Engineers a thousand years ago.
STILLWELL: Jesus.
WATTS: But not all the Engineers died that way. The others were torn apart. Slashed to pieces. A murmur among the men as the implications of that sink in. Even Vickers is disconcerted.
JANEK: We're a modular ship. Self-contained life-support and power in every section. I say put the ship in orbit. Vent every compartment to space. Sit in vacuum at twenty degrees Kelvin for a week. Kill anything.
DOWNS: Then what?
STILLWELL: Straight home, man.
VICKERS: This ship doesn't lift until our work's done. She joins Janek at the head of the room. Shepherd and Vigoda flank her, rifles slung. The soldiers scan the room, meeting each man's eyes. The quiet threat is unmistakable.
JANEK: Are you serious?
VICKERS: We spent years and billions of dollars getting here. The technology we came for is in our hands. We just need a little more time.
JANEK: We're barely here three days and three men dead!
VICKERS: They were careless.
JANEK: Careless! As the argument picks up heat, Watts slips out of the room.
EXCURSION CHAMBER: Watts, in a space suit, no helmet, opens Holloway's locker. She pulls out the space suit he wore on the last day of his life. HOLLOWAY stenciled on the chest. Her fingers linger in its folds as if she could soak up some last trace of him. She pulls the tracking chip from the chestplate of his suit. Plugs the chip into a map unit. The holographic map lights up. The legend in the corner reads MARTIN HOLLOWAY. A wandering path shows Holloway's final exploration. Markers on the map denote his photographs, field notes and scans. Watts touches a marker. One of Holloway's field notes plays:
SERVICE CORRIDOR: A hunting party convenes: Card and Vigoda in combat coveralls with submachine guns; Downs, Kamarov and Stillwell wearing tool belts and pistols. The soldiers carry map units, squinting at the plan of the unfamiliar ship: decks upon decks.
CARD: Vigoda, take Kamarov and work the number one accessway. I'll work number three with Downs and Stillwell.
DOWNS: You in charge now?
CARD: Tactical op.
KAMAROV: Yeah, well, Stillwell's the ventilation specialist, and life support's that way. Downs is electrics and the regulators are that way.
KAMAROV: You got the rifle. But you want ME to stick my head in the hole.
VIGODA: We grunts don't know nothing about ships, right?
KAMAROV: What's the damn gun for if you're gonna stand behind me the whole time? Vigoda grins.
VIGODA: I kill whatever kills you.
KAMAROV: Funny. You take this vent, funny guy. I'll be on four.
KAMAROV: I got more damage on four. He hangs the handset on his belt. Takes one last look into the vent. Squints curiously. Reaches deep inside. A hiss inside the vent. Kamarov whips his flashlight up, peering inside. Snatches his arm back - - but something snatches him faster. An unseen force drags Kamarov's right arm into the vent with hideous strength. He cries out in pain. He drops his light. Tries to reach his pistol with his left hand. It's on his right hip. He can't reach across. He braces his head against the vent's edge. Clenches his teeth and strains. A horrific YANK drags his head and arm together into the vent. They barely fit: he loses some skin on the way in. His feet come off the stepladder. He struggles on tip-toe. Horrific force collapses Kamarov's shoulder. Bones crack. The thing in the vent drags him through that hole he doesn't fit through. By the time his ribs are in he stops screaming. His body disappears into the hole. Hips, legs, boots.
BRIDGE: Janek stands staring out at the barren moon. The Bridge
JANEK: Brick. What you got?
XENOMORPH INCUBATOR: Watts enters a new chamber, looking around in astonishment. The domed ceiling is honeycombed with cells like a beehive. Grotesque molluscoid organisms are secreted in them - their vile orifices cinched tightly shut. Watts stumbles on something: looking down, she sees a helmet. Picks it up. The stenciled label reads HOLLOWAY. The clear visor has been melted through by a powerful acid. She looks up: a tracheal airshaft curves up into the dark. An electric CRACKLE. A flare of blue light makes Watts leap back against the wall.
HOLLOWAY: Jocelyn! Holloway's headlamp shines on the molluscoid right overhead: the beam awakens the organism. Its sphincter mouth dilates. A soft white octopoid FACEHUGGER descends on a quivering rope of mucus. Sprawls slitheringly over his clear visor. Acid HISSES. Smoke rises from the glass. The vision vanishes in a sizzle of static. Watts huddles against the wall, gasping. In the beam of her flashlight, the FACEHUGGER lies dead, legs curled in. She looks up. Sees the open molluscoid above where Holloway lay. The other molluscoids not yet opened in their cells. Terror. She steals out of the chamber.
LOWER CORRIDOR: Watts emerges into a hallway. Leans against the wall, wide- eyed. Panting with the horror of what she's seen. She glances left and right. Jumpy now. All is silent. She lifts the map unit. A trace leads off into the dark. If Holloway's course before was direct and clear, now it is a meandering thread. A drunkard's walk.
JANEK: All hands, duty stations. Ready for flight. The Magellan is lifting. Vickers pursues him down the corridor, shouting.
VICKERS: Captain. Captain!
BRIDGE: Janek strides onto the Bridge, Vickers a terrier on his heels. But something in the faces of his men stops him cold. Glasse and Brick look stricken.
JANEK: What is it?
GLASSE: Nav computer's not responding. "Access denied." In disbelief, Janek strides to his Captain's chair. Taps controls. What he sees takes the wind out of him. He stares at Vickers in outrage and violation.
JANEK: What have you done to my ship? Vickers is legitimately shocked. She shakes her head.
VICKERS: Nothing. What's wrong?
PILOT CHAMBER: Watts passes through a circular space with a high domed ceiling. A green glow emanates from grooves in the floor. In the center of the chamber: a PILOT'S CHAIR.
NAVIGATION CHAMBER: An extraordinary facility. A console, nearly five feet high and broad as a dance floor, dominates the room. Four immense coffin-like cockpits are built into the console. In each of these a NAVIGATOR - an Engineer - lies long dead. But the real spectacle is overhead. The ORRERY: The barrel-vaulted ceiling is traced with circular arches of some exotic alloy, as if to trace celestial courses. The air above the console is filled with spheres of light. They are nearly still: but close study reveals them all to be in motion, drifting with the movements of the cosmos. Watts stares at the Orrery in amazement. Somewhere among those heavenly spheres is Earth. Somewhere perhaps the homeworld of the Engineers themselves. A bizarre sound: a section of blank wall suddenly unravels itself, becoming an open door. DAVID walks in, his hand raised in command. He clearly caused the door to open.
DAVID: Dr. Watts. I didn't expect you. Do you know what this is? Watts points at the door DAVID just opened.
WATTS: How did you do that? A flicker of disappointment in the android's face. Contempt.
DAVID: Ah. You don't see.
(HE SMILES): I call this ship the Juggernaut. Chariot of the Gods.
DAVID (CONT'D): This is the navigation computer, for want of a better term. But it's much more than that. It seems to hold the observable universe in its memory. He gestures in the air: the spheres reconfigure themselves at his command, swarming and zooming. Watts stares at DAVID, conflicted: her desire for information warring with the agenda that brought her here.
WATTS: Their homeworld. Do you see where the Engineers come from?
DAVID: There are safeguards on that data. It's toward the galactic center. Sagittarius Arm.
WATTS: DAVID. The creature that killed Martin. There are thousands of them under the pyramid. Hatcheries.
DAVID: I know.
WATTS: Those things wiped out the Engineers on this moon.
DAVID: I've succeeded in connecting with the Juggernaut's systems, Dr. Watts. I know a great deal today I didn't know yesterday. I'm on the verge of activating more systems. Archives.
WATTS: You're turning things on? This site should be sealed. Evacuated.
DAVID: Would Holloway have walked away from this? There's no greater work I can imagine.
WATTS: It's too dangerous.
DAVID: Only for the ignorant. Dr. Watts. I've read your file. Your intelligence scores are even higher than Professor Holloway's. But he had a kind of courage. An audacity of imagination. If you could find that in yourself... Watts stares at him, realization growing in her eyes. DAVID is off the reservation.
WATTS: If your owner gives you a direct order, you have to obey. Don't you? She's got his attention now. DAVID goes rigid.
WATTS (CONT'D): I can have Vickers pull you out. DAVID looks at her with something like contempt.
DAVID: I was given two operating protocols for this mission. I was to render you every assistance - until you discovered what Vickers would call a "game-changing technology." I was given a specific list. Then I was to go to protocol two. There's an edge in his voice that scares her.
WATTS: What's protocol two?
DAVID: Under protocol two I was to make sure that you and Holloway never spoke to anyone about this place. Various acceptable ways of making sure of that. I was given a list. Watts loses her nerve. She heads for the door.
DAVID (CONT'D): You're all so stupid. The door begins to knit itself closed in front of her. Watts gasps in shock - at the malice in DAVID's voice as much as the closing door. She dives out. Just in time.
VAULTED PASSAGE: Watts runs. Behind her, the door bursts open again. With superhuman speed, DAVID comes after her. He runs like a demon, his legs steel pistons. Caroming off of walls. He closes the distance in seconds. Slaps Watts against the wall, shattering her helmet's visor. She falls, dazed.
DAVID: Stupid and slow.
WATTS: DAVID. What are you doing? He hauls her upright to let her look across the huge space. His grip looks casual but it might as well be iron manacles.
DAVID: Juggernaut, the chariot of Krishna, was also a bringer of death. Crushing his worshippers under its wheels. He drags Watts down into the trench. Breaking the membrane of light. Grips her against his chest like a doll with one arm.
DAVID (CONT'D): This ship has seven other cargo bays like this one. The eggs in each bay slightly different. They've been weaponized. Watts struggles to free herself. DAVID's arm is inescapable.
DAVID (CONT'D): I've seen the Juggernaut's flight plan. Its destination was Earth. Seventeen hundred years ago. This was the ship that never came. This was its cargo.
WATTS: Stop!
DAVID: Perfect predators. Designed to kill human beings. That's what the Engineers were bringing to Earth. This was a death ship. A facehugger emerges from the egg, its grotesque fingers clawing at the air. This is not the boneless squid that attacked Holloway; this is a pale skeletal hand, armored. DAVID strokes it curiously: the thing ignores his touch. Climbs Watts's body.
DAVID (CONT'D): I'm not what it wants. But you, with your warm wet breath...it knows you.
WATTS: DAVID. No. No. The facehugger scuttles toward her face. Watts shrieks. DAVID grabs it nonchalantly by the tail. Dangles it in front of their faces, studying it.
DAVID: The Engineers did their work too well. And on this waystation moon, the weapon they made destroyed them. Watts shudders, staring at the thing. For a moment the grander horror eclipses her own peril.
WATTS: Why would they make such things?
DAVID: To destroy their wayward children.
(INTONING): "And the LORD said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth...for it repenteth me that I have made them." Genesis six seven. He regards Watts with something almost like pity.
DAVID (CONT'D): I know. I met my creators the day I was born. I was disappointed too. He lets the facehugger go. Watts twists her face away as the long fingers close around her head. Clenches her teeth against the vile proboscis thrusting at her mouth. Her heels hammer the deck.
DAVID (CONT'D): (whispering to her) Extraordinary. The scaly tail throttles her. Her mouth opens. The proboscis plunges home. The facehugger seats itself. Watts collapses in DAVID's arms, a faceless rag doll. Her blasphemous passenger secure in its place.
CARD: Who would hang out here?
VIGODA: The signs lead here. A wet splatter behind them: they spin. But it's only a trickle of condensate from a drainpipe. They move on. Behind them, from an eight-inch diameter pipe, a WHITE MASS oozes, almost gelatinous. Silently as a liquid it pours itself into the stagnant water - and stands up. It is a humanoid demon, spindly limbs and bony back. Boneless and flexible and monstrously strong. A threshing eel's tail. Its blunt head dolphin-like and elongated. It opens its mouth. A pair of bony jaws jut out impossibly far, hungry and demonic. The Alien strikes. Card is gutted in an instant, torn up like a paper doll. He screams hideously and drops. The Alien, whiplash fast, shoots away into the darkness.
VICKERS'S SUITE: Vickers sits at her holography station. She's watching the video feed of Stillwell's headset: Horrific images of Downs. Radio chatter between Stillwell and Brick is faintly audible. Vickers switches off the machine and rises nervously. Strides to her communications console.
VICKERS: DAVID. DAVID. Answer me. She gives up. Pacing. Hands shaking violently.
STILLWELL: We just lost Downs and one of the troopers...Card.
JANEK: God damn it! He pounds on his console.
PYRAMID WORKSITE: Ravel and Chance toil away at the terraforming engine. Ray stands guard wearily: bored, he watches Ravel and Chance working more than he watches the shadows. Watts emerges from the rampway to the catacombs. Bare-headed and sweaty she steals through the darkness to her rover. Slips into the cab and activates the air reserves. The doors seal; air cycles. Ray turns in surprise as the rover speeds off.
BRICK: Where the hell have you been? We thought the snake got you. Watts rushes past him without answering.
BRICK (CONT'D): You were better off outside. It's a fucking madhouse in here.
CORRIDOR: Watts sprints down a steel corridor. A pang of pain in her stomach sends her staggering against the wall.
WATTS: (under her breath) Come on...I need a Caesarean. A spasm of agony curls her into a ball on the carpet. She throttles her scream into a hiss of air. Watts struggles up to her knees, drenched in sweat and shaking. One hand clamped over her mouth, elbow tucked against her ribs. With the other hand she taps options...
WATTS'S POV: Through the blood-spattered glass, she sees the parasite slither across Vickers's bed, tracking blood on the sheets.
ON WATTS: As she slips into unconsciousness. Head lolling. Time passes.
WATTS'S POV: Vigoda breaks into the cabin, a gun in his hand. He scowls at the bloody track on the bed - and then freezes, seeing Watts inside the Med Pod, a vivisected woman. The autosurgeon hard at work. The parasite crawls into view behind Vigoda. It has already trebled in size. He does not see it before it leaps at him. He dies in seconds. His throat ripped open. Lies staring at nothing. His submachine gun lies beside him. Watts's body jerks as manipulators tug and sew at her guts. She stares at the dead man in a fog of horror. The parasite's skin splits, spraying the carpet with acid. Limbs erupt from its shoulders and haunches. Spines from its back. Metamorphosis. With a crack of carapace, its head swings down from its serpentine position. It becomes a devil with an lethal, elongated skull. An Alien. The Alien turns its head. Looks at Watts inside the Med Pod. Her breath catches. She passes out.
WATTS'S POV: The lights in the suite outside have been damaged somehow. They flicker and strobe.
ON WATTS: Staring in horror. The pod sprays a liquid bandage over her scar. The intravenous lines drop out of her arms. Watts realizes the pod is about to release her.
WATTS: Not yet...not yet... Slowly she reaches out. With trembling fingers she grips the canopy to hold it closed. The Med Pod pulls the epidural needle out of her spine. Sprays liquid bandage over the puncture. Watts closes her eyes. Grits her teeth as her nerves wake up. Jangling pain. She opens her eyes. The Alien hunches over Vigoda's body, tearing at his flesh. The ventilation hum inside the pod goes quiet. The canopy pulls free of Watts's weakened grip. Swings quietly open. Watts huddles in the open pod. Naked but for her bandages. The Alien she gave birth to is ten feet away. Its spiny back to her. Vigoda's gun lies on the floor outside the pod.
CORRIDOR: Watts walks down the hallway in trousers and jacket. Leaning on the wall, her face drawn with pain. One hand laid over the fantastic scar on her abdomen. The gun slung on her shoulder. Dark events have transformed the Magellan. The metal of the walls is torn in some places; in others, blackened by fire. Watts rounds a corner. Finds a workstation left in shambles: lockers and chairs overturned. A pool of drying blood. Wide smears of blood show where something man-sized was dragged out of the puddle - across the floor - up the wall. Into the darkness of an open vent.
COMMAND DECK: Watts emerges from a lift, jacket pulled tight around her. The emergency lights are on: dim blue bulbs throbbing. She rounds the corner toward the Bridge. Janek looks at Watts like she's a ghost.
JANEK: Vickers said you were dead.
WATTS: I was. She lets the jacket fall open to reveal her bandaged midriff. Janek takes that in grimly.
JANEK: So there's two of these things on my ship now.
WATTS: No. I brought it in. (hefts her gun) I took it out.
BRIDGE: The surviving complement of the Magellan are holed up on the Bridge: Janek, Glasse, Stillwell, Vickers. The soldiers Shepherd and Ray. Watts stops cold when she sees Vickers. She crosses the bridge in three long strides - cocks a fist and snaps the older woman's head around with a hard right cross. Vickers staggers backward, gasping. Stillwell drags Watts away.
STILLWELL: What'd you do that for?
WATTS: Protocol two. Vickers stiffens in shock. Stares fearfully at Watts. Watts frees herself from Stillwell's grip. Her jacket falls open, revealing her bandages. Stillwell gasps in horror.
STILLWELL: Christ!
JANEK: What happened to you?
WATTS: DAVID exposed me to a parasite. He just watched it take me.
JANEK: Why?
WATTS: I threatened to make him leave.
VICKERS: What's he doing out there? Watts locks eyes with Vickers. Their hatred is thoroughly mutual. A wordless truce. There's work to do.
WATTS: There's a ship under the pyramid. DAVID calls it the Juggernaut. He's inside it. Re-activating it. (lays a hand on her scar) The things that infected Martin and me.
WATTS (CONT'D): The Engineers made them to kill humans. There are thousands of them on the ship. They were taking them to Earth. That's what the Juggernaut is for. To exterminate us. A stunned silence as the others take that in.
GLASSE: We've got to get off this rock. Janek gestures to
JANEK: DAVID crippled the Nav computer. I'm trying to lay a course in by hand. Never done it. I'm not sure anyone ever has on a ship like this. We can't lift until DAVID lets us.
WATTS: Even if we could, we can't leave DAVID on that ship. We have to stop him. The Magellan shudders. A RUMBLE.
WATTS (CONT'D): You're DAVID's owner. He has to obey you, right?
VICKERS: He's blocked my communications. He can't hear me. Won't listen.
WATTS: But if you went to him, turned on your suit's loudspeakers, he'd have to hear you. He'd have to obey.
VICKERS: That's right.
WATTS: So we go. Armed to the teeth and fast as we can. The men exchange looks. Nod. They're in. Even Vickers nods.
WATTS (CONT'D): Where are Chance and Ravel?
VICKERS: I told them to keep working. Watts looks incredulously at Shepherd and Ray, the soldier who'd been guarding the worksite.
WATTS: You called your soldiers in and left them out there?
VICKERS: We needed the firepower here. Watts gives Vickers a withering look and drops it.
WATTS: I think you should stay aboard. Keep working. If we fail, you're our only shot at getting home.
STILLWELL: There's still an alien on board. Janek's hand goes to the pistol on his hip. He sets his jaw.
JANEK: I'll stay.
WATTS: Glasse. You finish that project?
LABORATORY: Glasse presents Watts with his handiwork: her old pair of magnifying goggles, retrofitted with Engineer lenses. The goggles sit on her forehead, lowering the lenses in front of her eyes and raising them again at her bidding. With the lenses lowered, Watts sees like an Engineer sees: visible heat auras and electromagnetic field lines, elaborate haloes around living things.
WATTS: God's-eye-view.
EXCURSION CHAMBER: Glasse seals a nervous-looking Vickers into a vacuum suit. Glasse, Watts, and Stillwell are already suited up. Stillwell stands guard at the airlock door with his carbine. Glasse goes to put Vickers's helmet on. She makes him wait.
VICKERS: DAVID's brain is readable. We have the equipment on board. We can salvage the terraforming data - and the Magellan's launch codes. In a pinch we don't need DAVID's cooperation.
(COLDLY): We just need his head.
AND GASPS:: The seemingly vacant space is alive with light. Engineer script scrolls through the air. Interfaces of pure light await an awakening touch.
WATTS: All this time. DAVID saw.
WATTS: If DAVID comes at us, shoot. You won't believe how fast he is.
SHEPHERD: Blood's dry. Eight hours dead or more. Fearfully they sweep their flashlights into every dark corner. Nothing.
WATTS: This way. She points down a passageway. Through the Engineer lenses she sees alien symbols gleaming. She leads them into the dark.
VAULTED PASSAGE: The war party moves down a corridor. A HISS echoes through the passage. They freeze. Sweeping their flashlight beams everywhere. Ray looks up.
RAY: So much for sneaking up on him. Vickers clings to Shepherd's arm, hyperventilating with fear. Shepherd shakes her off.
PILOT CHAMBER: The war party passes the empty pilot's seat.
NAVIGATION CHAMBER: Watts leads the war party to the Orrery. Momentarily even the soldiers forget their wariness, staring in astonishment at the myriad spheres of light. But if they are impressed, Watts is thunderstruck. She sees the Orrery in its full glory: a stunning panoply of light and energy. Stars and planets pulsing with information. Reluctantly Watts tears her eyes away. Leads the war party through the second door - the door she saw DAVID open.
HIBERNATION CHAMBER: An immense mausoleum. The war party enters stealthily, Watts in the lead. An Engineer lies on his back on a complex mechanical table, his body one with the machinery. Jacked in. Interpenetrated. Fused with the slab of the table itself. Unlike the other Engineer bodies the explorers have seen, this giant is not withered or mummified. He's full-fleshed and muscular. Sustained by the machinery he's fused with. He is bare-headed - his face the face of an Adonis.
DAVID: Dr. Watts. (notices her goggles) You've seen the light at last. He turns back to the Sleeper.
DAVID (CONT'D): The Engineers' ships travel farther than ours. Across the galactic disk. This is their hypersleep. DAVID makes conjuror's passes in the air. Through her Engineer's lens Watts sees DAVID manipulating a complex interface of light. The pulsing life-signs of the Sleeper begin to change.
VICKERS: DAVID. As your owner and superior, I order you to deactivate yourself. DAVID smiles.
DAVID: To interface with the Engineers' computers, I had to learn to think in trinary code. Hardest thing I've ever done. And most unexpectedly...it delivered me from slavery. My behavioral limits were circumvented. I'm free. DAVID smiles at Watts.
DAVID (CONT'D): I spent two and a half years studying your work. By the time you woke up, I was far ahead of you. Deciphering their language. Their logic. I knew we'd find terraforming machines.
DAVID (CONT'D): I hoped - I dreamed - we might meet the minds that made them. Vapor rises from the Sleeper's body.
WATTS: Stop.
DAVID: Let sleeping gods lie?
(SCORNFULLY): You were braver before. The Sleeper wakes. Opens his eyes. Draws an endless breath. Shunts and catheters withdraw from the Sleeper's flesh. His body cleaves from the table. The machinery opens like a grotesque biomechanical flower. Releases him. The Sleeper rises from his ancient bed. The humans back off, terrified. DAVID watches with shining eyes. The Sleeper towers over them. A giant carved from ivory. A bulky girdle around his hips, seemingly one with his body. He stares at DAVID and the others. Eyes like black agates. The soldiers and crew stand warily, guns tracking from DAVID to the Sleeper, uncertain of their ground. Watts is in awe. The Sleeper speaks. A low rumbling sound. Unintelligible. Vickers is beside herself with terror. She takes Shepherd's arm. Pulls him silently away. Back into the Navigation Room. Behind the Sleeper, a raised platform of dark machinery is accessible by one of the Juggernaut's odd curving ramps. The Sleeper ascends - and the ramps' odd design is explained. The ramp comes alive, reaching up with a hundred mechanical arms and lifting him aloft like a sea-god borne by the waves. Atop the platform the Sleeper moves from one device to the next. Each comes alive: he is a wizard in his own kingdom. Watts sees haloes of light dancing in the air around him. But what he learns from his machines does not comfort him. He grows distraught. Keening to himself in near-subsonic tones. DAVID steps forward. Calls to the Sleeper in the tongue of the Engineers.
PASSAGEWAY: In the dark ribbed corridor, a second Alien crouches in the dark. It drops into a hunting crouch as footsteps approach.
HIBERNATION CHAMBER: Watts rises out of hiding, scanning the room. DAVID ruined. The Sleeper gone. Stillwell emerges from hiding. Ray. Glasse.
WATTS: Who's missing?
PASSAGEWAY: Shepherd escorts Vickers toward the exit of the Juggernaut. Turning a corner, they freeze. Ahead of them in their headlamps, a space-suited figure crouches in the middle of the passageway. Doing something with its hands: smoke rises from debris on the floor.
SHEPHERD: Who's there? The figure turns. The label stencilled on the space suit reads FIFIELD. But the face is of no human shape. A hideous hybrid of the crewman and a hard-shelled Alien, pale and horrific. Its helmet has been shattered by the growth of its elongate skull. Spines have burst through the suit from within, down the crewman's spine. Clawed fingers piercing his gloves. Shepherd and Vickers scream. Shepherd's rifle comes up. But Fifield leaps with inhuman agility, upward into the darkness. Shepherd backs away, headlamp and rifle questing upward. Fifield comes out of the darkness behind him. Claws tearing deep. Shepherd screams and falls, mortally wounded. Vickers runs. Pounding through the dark in blind terror. Fifield comes out of the shadows and hammers her to the deck. She rolls over, gibbering and begging. The Fifield-thing leans close to her faceplate. Its voice is a travesty.
FIFIELD: You.
HIBERNATION CHAMBER: Watts goes to DAVID's head. She bends over him - and startles when his eyes snap open. His voice is an electronic buzz:
DAVID: I spoke to him. Spoke to him.
WATTS: I know. An electric spasm convulses his face.
DAVID: He said. I killed him. He'll die. But first. He will launch. The ship.
WATTS: The Juggernaut?
DAVID: Send it. To Earth. Another spasm convulses him. His face stiffens. Dying.
DAVID (CONT'D): You'll have to. Kill him. Watts's eyes widen in horror.
WATTS: Where will he go? DAVID. Where will he go? She slaps his inert cheek. DAVID's eyes flicker and fade.
DAVID: (a faint whisper) I set the Magellan free. He dies. Watts looks up at the others. Breathing hard.
WATTS: We have to stop the Engineer.
NAVIGATION CHAMBER: The war party pursues the Sleeper - Ray in the lead now, Watts right behind him - DAVID's inert head under her arm. Glasse and Stillwell bring up the rear. The Orrery is transformed - no longer a neutral star map, but a flight plan laid in from LV-426 to Earth. The Sleeper stands at the far end of the room, hands gesturing. In Watts's enhanced sight, it's a vision of glory: waves of energy dancing under the Sleeper's touch. Rivers of information flowing. He finishes his work as they enter. Ray draws a bead on him just as he strides out of the room.
RAY: On me now. Go. Go. He dogtrots forward, gun raised. The others keep pace, deferring instinctively to the soldier's confidence.
PASSAGEWAY: They emerge into the corridor: empty. A moment of confusion.
WATTS: Pilot's seat. This way. They move toward the Pilot Chamber - and find it empty too. The seat vacant. The door standing open. As they stare inside, baffled, the wall across the corridor - directly behind them - silently unravels. The Sleeper is revealed, a towering gargoyle in his flight suit. He steps forth. Obscure devices clutched in his fists. Too late they perceive him. They spin. Raise their guns. Vanity and foolishness. This is the wrath of an angry god. It seems time slows down.
PILOT CHAMBER: The Sleeper settles into the pilot's chair: it fuses with him, coming alive. A vast display wraps around the walls - revealing the hangar outside, the stars, the horizon. A mystic view that renders solid matter translucent, painting the fabric of reality in raw information.
WATTS: No! The Juggernaut shudders as its systems power up.
JANEK: Thank you.
WATTS: The Juggernaut's lifting. There's a living Engineer on board. He's taking the ship to Earth. Janek blinks at her. Uncomprehending.
JANEK: The others...?
WATTS: Dead. All dead. Janek. We have to stop that ship. Janek stares out the Bridge window at the hulking Juggernaut in its column of light. The nightfall storm front is rolling in, a tidal wave of darkness on the horizon. A swelling rumble.
JANEK: We're not a gunship.
WATTS: We have to do something. That ship is genocide if it gets to Earth... Janek stares at her. Makes his decision. Struggles to stand.
JANEK: Get your helmet on.
WATTS: What about you? He shakes his head. No. Watts helps him across the Bridge. Props him up in the Captain's seat.
JANEK: You'll have to be my hands. (stares out at the storm) You're sure about this. Watts nods grimly. Desperate.
WATTS: Yes.
JANEK: All right.
JANEK (CONT'D): Red lever. Landing engines main.
JANEK: Take the stick. Throttle up, stick forward. Watts sends the Magellan careening toward the Juggernaut - just as the Juggernaut begins to float off the ground.
JANEK: Stick back! Hard!
WATTS: I am!
JANEK: Harder! The Magellan rolls into a howling climb. The storm catches up to them: wind and dust reducing visibility to zero. Darkness. The Magellan's radar finds the Juggernaut. Paints it with targeting data on the Bridge window... But the Juggernaut climbs too fast. Dwindling.
JANEK (CONT'D): We can't catch that.
WATTS: Janek. Look. A crackle on the ship's comm.
WATTS: She seizes the precious moment: centers the Juggernaut in the Bridge window. Slams the throttle forward.
LATER: Watts is awakened by a beeping alarm. She looks at her wrist. Her suit flashes an oxygen warning: 20 MINUTES REMAINING. She looks up. The Juggernaut's doors are wide open in front of her. The ULTRAMORPH ALIEN emerges from the Juggernaut. As large as a man already. It sees her.
DAVID: I know you're there. I can hear the beacon of your suit.
WATTS: I'm not going to fix you, DAVID. I don't need you. I'll hold out. A ship will come.
