JENNIFER EIGHT: Written by Bruce Robinson
BENNY: .. after my third recovery my wife made me swear I'd never bring another bottle into the house.  And I never did. I bur- ied it under the lawn.  Cut out a turf & stood it upright with a piece of tin- foil instead of a cork. So here we are out in the yard, and she's happy because I'm getting healthy in a pair of swim- ing shorts & no way near no booze. She decides to prune the roses. Meanwhile, I'm laying there with a straw stuck in- to the fucken lawn doing a quart of red .. That's how crazy I was - I was sick for half a life till I finally found my san- ity again in these rooms. Don't take that drink - And for the one or two new faces I see here, I say this: just do it by the day. You gotta do it by the day - Don't take that drink. And keep coming to these meetings. Because here is where it works ..
CHAIR: Thank you, Benny .. We have a few more minutes .. Anyone else like to share? ..
BERLIN: My name's John .. and I'm an alcoholic ..
ALL: Hi, John.
BERLIN: I didn't intend to speak today.  Matter of fact, I wasn't gonna come to the meeting .. But I wanna say a couple of things I hope may be of use, particularly as Benny says, to the new faces here. I first came into this fellowship ten months ago. I came to a meeting I was convinced was gonna be my last - how could a buncha drunks help me? - Then someone got up, I think it was Micky, and described himself as "the shit around which the universe revolved." I don't know if that was original to him - it doesn't matter, it was the first time I'd heard it, and I still can't think of a better way to describe how I felt - We all have our own place in the darkness, and I was in such a mess I could hardly fucken see - I'd lost someone very dear to me - she hadn't died - I had - I don't know whether she left coza the drinking, or whether I drank coz I knew she was gonna leave - either way, the booze won - I replaced her with alcohol & anger - I was angry with her, myself, everyone and everything - Where I was I wanted to be someplace else - any place but here - any moment but now - But here I am, and it is now, and there's a big change about to hap- pen in my life - and I'm going for it coz this time I know I'm not running away - I'm actually two miles into a 600 mile journey, and I feel good about myself going there - So I stopped off to share that with you - and to thank everyone of you, and everyone in this fellowship for letting me walk out of here, free ..
TRAVIS: You can drive down there, Sir ..
ROSS: I'm already walking. Where is it?
TRAVIS: On the infill. The guy from L.A.'s just gone down there ..
ROSS: He has? .. What's he doing here?
TRAVIS: He was waiting for you, Sir. Wait- ed a good while. Said he'd go down and take a look. I hope that's O.K.
ROSS: Damn A, it's O.K. With a bit of luck I'm goin home. What we got?
TRAVIS: A derelict.
TRIMBLE: They cut his throat ..
ROSS: Who are you?
TRIMBLE: Trimble.
ROSS: Where do you fit in, Trimble?
TRAVIS: His father's the manager, Sir. The kid was up there shooting vermin, and he found the body.
TRIMBLE: Get ready for it, coz I'm tell- ing ya, you're in for a shock .. They slit him from "ear to ear." Ya want me to make a statement?
ROSS: Not right now. No. Thank you.
ROSS: Did you bring it with you?
BERLIN: I hope I'm not intruding?
ROSS: Be my guest. What you got?
BERLIN: Old guy, offed himself with a knife. I can't find the knife.
TRIMBLE: They cut his throat.
ROSS: Would you get outside the tape. And tell your dad to put that fire out ... that ain't legal ...
TRAVIS: I wonder what would make him do a thing like that?
ROSS: Don't annoy me, Travis.
TRAVIS: No, Sir.
ROSS: So where's the knife?
BERLIN: I dunno .. Guess the dozer musta shifted him? You need some hands up here to look ..
ROSS: You heard. Look for the knife. You, too .. Move that ass .. You done the pockets?
BERLIN: No, Sir. I haven't started till Monday. I'm a "tourist."
ROSS: "Welcome to Eureka." How long's he been feeling like this?
BERLIN: Week or two.  Musta been on the ker- osene.  Stinks like a diesel engine.
BLATTIS: Fucken noddle's hanging off ..
ROSS: Mr Blattis, of our local news- paper. You sure it's a suicide?
BERLIN: Uh huh .. He's well rehearsed ..
BLATTIS: What does that mean, Sergeant?
BERLIN: Cut your own throat, you're ner- vous about it, tend to hesitate. He's got three trial cuts, lower left side of the neck, before he works up courage for the big one.
BLATTIS: You think Popeye would know that?
ROSS: I don't think Popeye would be here.
VENABLES (V.O.): Dead dog over here, Sir ...
ROSS: Find the knife. And Venab- les, is the coroner called?
VENABLES: Yes, Sir .. He's delayed ..
BLATTIS: Alright, gentlemen, I'm gonna leave you. I got a couple of questions for the paper, Serg- eant? Mind if I swing by later, wring out a tea-bag with you?
BERLIN: My pleasure .. Who's Popeye?
BLATTIS: Your predecessor. He did- n't like to get outta bed. Catch you later, Freddy T ..
BERLIN: So what happened to the barbecues, and fishing?
ROSS: Watch my lips, coz you're not gonna believe this - this is a rare occurrence. We haven't had a body in eighteen months. How does anyone dead as this lose a knife?
BERLIN: What about that kid, Ross?
ROSS: Oh, shit. Of course. The kid. (Stands to shout) Travis. Find that kid and get the knife off him. He's gonna lie to you - but he's got it - so get it. Well, go on, get on with it. Whatta you staring at?
TRAVIS: I think I found some- thing horrible, Sir
ROSS: Whatta you mean, "horrible?"
TRAVIS: I think I've found a hand.
BERLIN: Looks like a woman's hand?
ROSS: What do you think?
BERLIN: I think you're here all day.
ROSS: How much longer we here? We're not gonna find nothing else .. ?
BERLIN: We give it one more hour. Did the photographer do the dogs?
ROSS: The dogs?
BERLIN: Two dogs. He should do the dogs.
VENABLES: Sergeant - we got a brassiere over here. Looks like it could be blood.
ROSS: Oh, shit.
BERLIN: Alright, I'm coming ..
TRAVIS: The coroner wants to know if we can release the derelict?
ROSS: Ask him.
BERLIN: Yeah, he can go ...
ROSS: Think I'll lay down with him. Only way I'll get outta here.
BERLIN: It's good to be with you, Ross.
ROSS: Glad you finally made it, Bro ...
BLATTIS: You want some umbrella?
BERLIN: Is this normal?
BLATTIS: Average rainfall, 48 inches. Pisses down, October to June. Better in the summer.  You get to fucka few tourists ..
BLATTIS [BERLIN]: Not married are you, Sergeant? [No.] That's good, you get to fuck a few more. So how long you known Freddy?
BERLIN: Freddy? Forever - he was my serg- eant when I was a kid - don't get to see a lot of each other - but we been buddies two hundred years ..
BLATTIS: Did he get you the job?
BERLIN: I think he would have if he could have - been trying to get me up here long enough - I think he may have bribed the old guy to retire ..
BLATTIS: Popeye wasn't old. Younger than you.
CITRINE: Sergeants Serato, and Taylor. Mr Travis, I think you know ..
BERLIN: Do me a favor, Travis?  Bring in the resta the stuff from my car?
BLATTIS: Did you find the knife, Sergeant?
BERLIN: No .. But we have a theory ..
BLATTIS: Kid told me he didn't take it?
BERLIN: Maybe he's lying to you?
BLATTIS: Is it true you found a hand? Is that it?
CITRINE (O.S.): Interview over, Blattis ...
BLATTIS: C'mon, Chief, if it's sensitive, tell me .. I'm not taking notes ..
CITRINE: .. we got a body part. We don't know what it is - probably some kind of hospital debris - we're gonna try and check it out. O.K. Now you know as much as we do ..
BLATTIS: Grateful for your candor, Sir.
CITRINE: Then do me a favor, and keep this outta the newspaper - that dump serves a dozen different communities, we don't even know if it's ours? Till we do I don't want no one worrying about ..
BLATTIS: Wasn't frozen, was it, Sergeant?
CITRINE: Come on, Michael, outta here, the guys trying to move in. I told you what we know, something else, you- 'll be the first to hear about it ..
BERLIN: Why did he ask if it was frozen?
CITRINE: That, I couldn't tell you .. And don't worry about anya this crap, by the time you're back it's gone .. BERLIN (Phone) Listen, my time isn't good - but two things - really important - the bras- siere I sent you? - I need to know if those stains are human blood - and if they are, do they match the blood in the sample? - C'mon, gimme a break, I don't know anyone up here, it would take two weeks - C'mon, Ronny, I'm ask- ing nice? I really need to know wheth- er I'm interested in that brassiere? .. You're my favourite man - raining - I gotta go - Ronny - I gotta go - I got a house fulla removal men and a date at the morgue - And, Ron, Con- gratulations - you're my first call ..
PATHOLOGIST: .. if the knife hadn't killed him, the booze would .. I nev- er seen such a bad cirrhosis ..
BERLIN: You say the cut's left to right? (He does) Isn't that unusual? He's left handed?
PATHOLOGIST: I guess he was so drunk, he did- n't know which hand he was using. (Re box) What are you gonna do with it?
BERLIN: Depends how healthy it is. If it's any good, I'll try and get a print .. Oh, Ross, that newspaper guy at the station, asked me if the hand was "frozen?" Why would he ask me that?
ROSS: Frozen? .. I've no idea .. A few beers wouldn't do that to you, would they?
PATHOLOGIST: No, Freddy .. Not a few ..
ROSS: You do a rush on three pizzas?
MARGIE: I'm not giving him Pizza. I haven't seem him for a year? I'm gonna cook him a dinner.
ROSS: Dinner's another night, darlin .. This is a drive-by. I got an hour ..
MARGIE: Bobby's out .. What's the hurry?
ROSS: Friday night at City Hall. Got a great chance to frighten the fat.
MARGIE: Freddy's new obsession ..
BERLIN: Who is who?
ROSS: A professional, whining, con-person bitch with an ass the size of Africa .. She's an accounts-manager, very pal- ly with our mayor, up to her elbows in fraud, and I just can't prove it ..
MARGIE: So tonight she confesses?
ROSS: Tonight I'm feeling lucky ..
BERLIN: Not for me ..
ROSS: What d'you mean, I just opened it for you? This is French champagne.
MARGIE: No it isn't .. It's Californian ..
ROSS: Even better.
BERLIN: Not today .. I'm on a diet to- day .. I'll take a diet soda ..
ROSS: Since when did you drink diet soda?
MARGIE: Stop nagging him.  If he doesn't want it, he doesn't want it. You- 're quacking like an old duck .. Here you go, Honey .. You're looking wonderful, John .. I can't believe we got you here ..
ROSS: How's the new residence?
ROSS: What does that mean?
BERLIN: Not too good in daylight ..
ROSS: C'mon, just shut your eyes until it's painted.  You're gonna love it. This is "God's Country," John.
BERLIN: Would you drop these off for me? You know something strange about that hand? I think it was frozen?
VENABLES: Frozen?
BERLIN: Yeah. What does that mean to you? C'mon, Venables, you're a policeman. And policemen always have an answer?
VENABLES: Well, Sir ..
BERLIN: Well, what?
VENABLES: Well, we had a very bad murder here, coupla years ago. Not act- ually in our county, but south of here. Girl with no head, no hands. You didn't read about it? (He didn't) It was big shit. They had forty, fifty detective working it. Nev- er identified her.  Never found the head, never found the hands .. So it could be that some crazy's stored her hand in a freezer, and only now decided to get rid of it?
BERLIN: Where do I find the file on that?
VENABLES: In there if we got anything? I believe the code was "Jennifer." Was it really frozen, Sergeant?
BERLIN: No. Been dead two weeks.
BERLIN: What time is it?
ROSS: Seven thirty-five .. Here, "Town Gets Top Cop." I was gonna pin it to your wall.
BERLIN: Why so coy about the word "frozen"?
ROSS: Because, don't get into it ...
BERLIN: There's nothing in the files?
ROSS: Watch my lips .. Don't get into it .. It wasn't our case, wasn't our coun- ty, and got nothing to do with that.
BERLIN: Look - 1 - 2 - 3/4 - 5 - 6  - 7 .. I count eleven scars on this hand, and four that might be? .. Now I count em on my hand? Five. I'm 42 years old.  This girl's about 18? How come she's got so many scars? So tell me about "Jennifer?" You know I'm gonna find out.
ROSS: It's an "unsolved." They spent 500 thousand dollars & bought emselves a dead end - You might wanna check it with Taylor, he worked the case.
BERLIN: I already did. What's his problem?
ROSS: He thinks you stole his promotion. (Re cigarettes) What exactly you doin there, John?
BERLIN: It's a method for quitting smoking.
ROSS: That's an interesting method? Must help beat the withdrawal?
BERLIN: It's a technique I read about. If you smoke 60 a day, you buy three packs, throw one cigar- ette away, and smoke 59. Day 2, you throw 2 away and smoke 58 ..
ROSS: Why don't you throw them all away, and smoke none?
BERLIN: Because it's a ritual you gotta go through with. I'm down to 10.
ROSS: You want my advice?
BERLIN: Maybe?
ROSS: Find yourself a farmer's daughter with nice big fucking tits, and shake that "bye-bye." Send it to Sacramento, John .. I sniff grief ..
MARGIE: You're all done except the floor.
BERLIN: You're a saint, Margie, thanks ..
MARGIE: Don't forget the wagon, Darlin?
ROSS: You gotta stop smoking ..
BERLIN: I am stopping smoking ...
ROSS: I don't mean this "system" shit that keeps you sucking, I mean stop .. I was exactly like you are .. I used to wake in the night - heart going so hard I coulda made love with my left tit .. If I can stop, you can ..
BERLIN: How'd you do it, old man?
ROSS: Someone bet me a dollar ..
BERLIN: A dollar? .. Not worth giving up for a dollar ..
ROSS: Alright. I'll bet you fifty?
BERLIN: Fifty dollars?  You got a bet.
[MACHINE]: [J.B./Ronzo/Got some results for you/ First/ the blood on the bra is human/ and it's not a popular brand/A.B. Neg and that's a rare one/Two/the blood on the brassie- re is compatible with the blood from the hand/Three/If you need anything else the official answer from all us Christians down here, is fuck off/Shoot me a duck/Bye]
ROSS: What are you gonna do, Soldier?
BERLIN: I'm gonna dig up "Jennifer."
ROSS: Chief, I gotta talk to ya about this fat lady?
CITRINE: What about her?
ROSS: She's making my life a misery .. I wanna give her a lie-detector test?
CITRINE (O.S.): What is that?
BERLIN: Laser enhancement of the finger- tip .. it's really bothering me .. See these striations right here? (Green on the screen) It's like she's always worrying the end of her finger? Rubbing it with a thumb nail, or something? She's almost identical to Jennifer. Slim - White - same age - bra size is even the same. Nicely made lady.
CITRINE: How do you know her hair's black?
BERLIN: Hair on her hand. Plus Jen- nifer had raven black hair.
CITRINE: What is all this Jennifer stuff? These cases aren't connected, John?
BERLIN: Yes, Sir, I think they maybe. I think "Jennifer," and this lady got hit by the same guy?
CITRINE: I don't see that at all ..
BERLIN: I got four points of posit- ive comparison on the cut ..
CITRINE: Yeah, that's all very inter- esting, but where's the body? I don't know nothing about this "Jenn- ifer" girl, cept what some of the guys told me - but principal feature of the case was a gruesome displayal of the body. He wanted it found. So if this is the same guy, why's he hidden this one?
BISLEY: Just wondered if you had time to get around to my pharmacy stuff?
BERLIN: You'll have it in the morning ..
BISLEY: Alright, I'll try again tomorrow.
CITRINE: Probably making him feel a bit antsy seein it back on the wall. He worked a lotta time on this.
BERLIN: I thought it was Taylor's case?
CITRINE: Sucked in officers from all over the county. And it was the worst six months this station ever had.
BERLIN: What do you want me to do, Chief?
CITRINE: I'm not telling you what to do. What I will say, is right now, that child's tricycle there is more important to me than this .. Why don't you give it a minute, & stop by my office. We should talk.
ROSS: .. what does he think it is?
BERLIN [ROSS]: Everything it isn't [make a left]. He even tried a "self-inflicted."
ROSS: It's possible.
BERLIN: C'mon, Ross, the bra and hand were in different bags a 100 feet apart .. What's she gonna do?  Dump her bra in one bag, her hand in the other, and wander off whistling Hey Jude?
ROSS: It's the garage on the far corner. You can't stop it, can you?
BERLIN: What do you mean?
ROSS: Worrying - clicking - picking - You may as well be back in Los Angeles.
BERLIN: What do you mean, Ross?
ROSS: Why don't you dump it? Mail it off. Give the fucking F.B.I. a present?
BERLIN: Why don't you dump the "Fat Lady?"
ROSS: Because I dislike her too much ..
BERLIN: O.K. and I'm not in love with this fukker? That's how I feel about him.
ROSS: No you don't. That's how you think you feel about him. That's how you feel about yourself. You won't give yourself one-fucking-minute for you. Wait for me. It might not be ready.
BERLIN: I just had this insane idea - if I'm wrong, I'll take a week off and redecorate your entire house .. She's blind, Ross - that's why all the scars - hear that traffic light? That noise is to help blind people - that's why the marks on her finger- tips? - this lady reads in Braille ..
ANN: Shasta-Trinity Institute. Line one. BERLIN (New call) Hello .. Yes .. This is Sergeant Berlin .. Yes, that's right .. I believe my assistant explained? .. How long ago was that? .. Uh-huh. O.K. .. Who is who? .. Whass his name? Goodridge? O.K. I'll hold ..
ROSS: Pig Woman agreed to take a test.
BERLIN: I think I got something - twenty two years old, dark hair - study- ing mathematics - (Yes, yes, I'm holding) - Last seen 5 weeks ago ..
GOODRIDGE: As recent as we have .. What ex- actly is your interest in Amber?
BERLIN: I'm afraid I can't give you an ans- wer to that, Mr Goodridge. As I ex- plained to your secretary, we're do- ing a lotta looking, but we're not even sure it's her we're lookin for ..
GOODRIDGE: Then what are you hoping I'm gon- na do? Dissuade, or persuade you?
BERLIN: I was hopin since we spoke that you might have remembered something that would give us an idea where she is?
GOODRIDGE: Then you could have saved yourself a lot of driving, Sergeant. What I said on the phone's the same as I'm saying now. I got no idea where Amb- er is, or who it was took her there.
ROSS: A blind girl can just walk out of here, and you don't know who with?
GOODRIDGE: You find something curious in that?
ROSS: Yeah, I guess I do.
GOODRIDGE: Then let me put your mind at ease .. Firstly, Amber isn't "blind" - she has some useful vision - and second, this isn't a prison, it's a college of higher education - a severe vis- ual disability doesn't mean my stud- ents don't value their independence as much as anybody else - and Amber was a very independent young woman - She decided to leave - so she left ..
ROSS: And you got no idea with who?
GOODRIDGE: No, Sergeant, I got no idea with who. And I might add, that in another six weeks, a hundred and fifty students will be leaving here, & driving away for their Christmas holidays with pe- ople whose name I-won't-know-either .. You have an appointment with Miss Robertson?
BERLIN: Yes, Sir.
GOODRIDGE: As she's a member of my staff, may I ask what this is about?
BERLIN: Well, apparently, she saw Amber the weekend she left, & was briefly in the room with the guy she left with.
GOODRIDGE: I see .. Well, she's teaching an- other class at four .. I'd apprec- iate it if you don't detain her ..
ROSS: Where is everyone?
BERLIN: I dunno .. I guess this is staff side of the building?
HELENA: What d'you wanna ask, Mr Ross?
BERLIN: I'm Mr Berlin.  Mr Ross is right here. And Mr Ross is maybe gonna take a few notes, if that's O.K.? (She nods) O.K. .. I'd like you to tell me in what ever way you want, what you can remember about the time you spent with Amber on the aft- ernoon she left? Take your time, and nothing's too trivial, O.K.
HELENA: Well, I think I told you on the phone .. I went up to her room to say good-bye, and we just sat on the bed and chatted a while, while her friend was coming in and out collecting her things ..
BERLIN: What kind of friend? Was he a boy friend? An old friend? New friend? That's O.K. Can you give me any idea what this fellow was like? (Headshake) Well, d'you know how old he was? (Headshake) Alright, let me put it this way? How old d'you think I am? Twenty- six? Thirty-nine? Or fifty-three?
HELENA: Fifty-three.
BERLIN: You must have some idea about him.
HELENA: When we spoke on the phone, did you know I was blonde?
BERLIN: No.
HELENA: Why not? You heard my voice? We don't have some kind of sixth-sense, you know. Ex- cept in ridiculous novels .. He used a breath freshener ... And I think his name was John?
BERLIN: John? .. You never said that on the phone? .. What makes you think his name was John?
HELENA: I don't know. I guess she must have called him John? I'm mak- ing tea. Would you like some?
BERLIN: This looks promising .. I think this one could be it?
ROSS: Thank Christ we got a witness.
BERLIN: Let me just keep going a while. She might remember something?
ROSS: What? She's blind, Bro. You may as well ask one of these Beethoven guys on the piano? We're better off having another pop at old Abe Lincoln down the- re? Get angry with the prick. Get some of his "useful visions" in? Someone must have seen something? This is fucken crazy. Two hours here, two hours back, and the only word I've written is John ..
HELENA: Well, he just said, come on, hurry up, will you, because it's starting to snow again. And I remember, he was a lit- tle breathless from carrying the cases because the elevat- or had gone out that weekend.
BERLIN: The elevator wasn't working?
HELENA: No, it has a mind of its own.
BERLIN: Can I see your hands?
HELENA: My hands? I have a class.  I have to go.
BERLIN: Is there anything else you can tell me? Anything about him or her? Doesn't matter how small?
HELENA: No. Except he smoked. Like you.
BERLIN: Me?
HELENA: Yes, I could smell it on his breath, like I can on your's. I'm late .. I really have to go ..
BERLIN: D'you have a dog? Seeing Eye Dog?
HELENA: No.
BERLIN: Lotta scratch-marks on your door?
HELENA: Sometimes I look after friends dogs, if they go to dances, or something?
ROSS: Could I just refer you to this memo here, Sergeant?
BERLIN: Did Amber have a dog?
HELENA: Yes.
BERLIN: What color was it?
HELENA: I don't know.
BERLIN: .. if she writes, or calls, or any- thing at all, you let me know, O.K. I'll leave a number with the office .. What exactly do you teach, Helena?
HELENA: Music composition .. and cello ..
ROSS: Fifty of em. And I want em now.
BERLIN: Had a seeing Eye Dog since she was eighteen .. didn't I tell you those dogs meant something ..
ROSS: No, you didn't.
BERLIN: Alright, I didn't, but I nearly did, and if I had I'd have been right .. I knew there was some- thing about that Labrador, that dog was too good to be dead .. We gotta get back up that dump ..
ROSS: No way .. not me, Mister. I'm not going up there again. Might find someone's prick in a hot-dog roll.
BERLIN: We're going.
ROSS: Forget it. They got stringent hyg- iene rules. He's long gone in lime.
BERLIN: Maybe not? I'm feeling lucky ..
ROSS: So am I. But where's my money?
BERLIN: Don't start again. If you win a bet, you can't keep winning it ..
ROSS: Pay me, and I shut up.
BERLIN: I haven't got it.
ROSS: Then give me that Zippo.
BERLIN: Why?
ROSS: I need some security. I don't trust you anymore.
BERLIN: I had one puff on a pipe.
ROSS: I don't want excuses, I want that weird-looking stuff called "cash." I'll tell you what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna do you a big favor .. Forget the 50 and I'll keep this.
BERLIN: What do you want it for?
ROSS: To throw out of the window.
BERLIN: What are you doing, Ross? I've had that 15 years! ..
ROSS: It's not your friend. It keeps you sucking. Remem- ber the old Bum's lungs?
BERLIN: I remember the old bastard's liver! I don't believe you did that. I had a great sent- imental attachment to that.
ROSS: You want me to stop the car?
BERLIN: No! Get me to that garbage dump! I'm gonna find that fucking dog!
BERLIN: You didn't shoot him did you?
TRIMBLE: Me .. I love dogs .. Ask him?
BERLIN: .. I put the slug in for a ballis- tics report, the man tells me, for get it. Soft lead, it's worthless .. I think, fuck it. And fuck Citrine. I call a friend of mine in Los Ang- eles, and he runs our whole damned show through a main-frame looking for anything similar to our ladies shot with a twenty-two - you don't believe what he finds in San Diego .. Would you shut it down a min- ute, Ross? This is important.
ROSS: Alright, let's take a walk around the block .. I gotta buy a gasket ..
BERLIN: Six girls over a period of 18 months, and give or take a head or two, the M.O.'s exactly the same. Dark hair. No hands. All shot with a high velocity twen- ty-two in the back of the head.
ROSS: How come the F.B.I. don't put anya this together? They work- ed over "Jennifer" for months?
BERLIN: They possibly did - but they nev- er had a head, so they never had a bullet - and they never got an I.D. - not on any of em - never bust a homicide unless you know who your victim is - we're the first to get a positive identity.
ROSS: Identity of whom? You got a girl, doesn't even have a driver's lic- ense? .. She's untraceable, John .. You need fifty detectives on this.
BERLIN: That's what I'm here for. I want you to come and see Citrine with me?  He's not gonna here it from me but I know he'd listen to you.
ROSS: Listen to me saying what?
BERLIN: I wanna take that fucking Blind In- stitute to pieces .. Every address book, every phone call, everyone in and outta there in the last 5 years ..
ROSS: For a dead dog?
BERLIN: We've fused into a major series, Ross. This girl isn't the second victim. This is "Jennifer Eight." That old Wino on the heap wasn't a suicide. He stumbled into some- thing, saw something, and whoever took him out knew how to fake it.
ROSS: That isn't what you said before.
BERLIN: I was wrong. I'm going in to see Citrine this afternoon. Will you come with me?
ROSS: You're not .. He's in hospital .. He was trying out a new pair of skis in his hallway. The phone rings, and he goes for it, and falls off. He must be the only skier in Northern California to break a leg in his living room.
BERLIN: You believe me, don't you?
ROSS: What does it matter what I bel- ieve? .. What you gotta worry about is what Citrine believes .. But I can't help you with this. We can't go through the door with two contentious issues, you with a mass murderer, and me with the Mayor's best friend. Do that, we lose both. I'm sorry, Bro, you're on your own.
HELENA: Have you been here long?
BERLIN: No, just a minute or two .. I knocked on your door - no one home, so I followed the music ..
HELENA: I'm sorry. I'll get my things.
BERLIN: No problem. I'm not in a hurry. Matter of fact, I saw a little restaurant place down the road. Looked kinda pretty? I thought maybe we could have some lunch? Alright, whatever .. Was some- one in here with you? When I came in the door was flapping?
HELENA: I don't think so .. No one comes here at the weekends ..
HELENA (O.S.): I suppose I'm the worst witness you've ever had?
BERLIN (O.S.): I gotta admit, you're one of them. Just wish I knew what you meant by a "hollow car?"
HELENA (O.S.): Well, some cars sound fat and some cars sound thin, and this kind of car sounded "hollow" .. Maybe it was a foreign car? Our kinda cars sound "fat." Are you sure you wanna see it? It's another three floors up? Oh, all the time. They keep threatening to have it re- placed, but they never will.
HELENA: If I came to the diner with you, would you bring me back?
BERLIN: Of course I would .. What are you staring at, Hel- ena? .. I mean .. I'm sorry ..
HELENA: That's alright. You suddenly reminded me of him .. He was standing right where you are, kind of breathless, like you. I'll get my coat, wait for you downstairs ..
BERLIN: I'm sorry, someone slammed the door on me. I couldn't get out.
HELENA: It was probably the wind.
BERLIN: What are you reading?
HELENA: Hamlet. Have you read it?
BERLIN: No.
HELENA: You should. It's wonderful.
BERLIN: .. I'll tell you what, if I prom- ise to stop being a cop, will you promise to stop being a witness? I mean, we don't havta sit here waiting for me to ask the next question? You could ask one, too?
HELENA: Are you wearing a uniform?
BERLIN: No.
HELENA: Oh.
BERLIN: Well, I'm glad we got the conver- sational side of lunch over with.
HELENA: I'm sorry .. I don't like sitting in the middle of a restaurant .. I feel like everyone's looking at me ..
BERLIN: There's no one "looking at you" .. There's hardly anyone in here. The only person looking at you, is me.
HELENA: Are you married?
BERLIN: Was. But I don't like to talk about it.
HELENA: You just asked me to ask you questions.
BERLIN: I know, but you pick on the one time in my life I like not to remember. I was in the bad lands. Really not well. It's something that happens to a lota cops. We don't wanna talk about that.
HELENA: "Thoughts that lie too deep for tears."
BERLIN: Yeah, that'll do .. Is that "Hamlet?"
HELENA: No, Wordsworth .. Do you like poetry?
BERLIN: I don't know, I haven't read much. I don't think poetry's my kinda thing?
HELENA: Do you pray?
BERLIN: Pray?
HELENA: You said, you were in the bad lands?
BERLIN: No, I don't pray .. Had a dream once, about God, just around the time I was getting well .. He was a nasty lookin little guy, moved into the apartment right on topa me .. I said, don't you listen to people's prayers?  He said, prayers? Not often. They're Junk Mail.
BERLIN: .. I got really sick of the street .. so I went to school and became a Scientific Services Officer, which is basically a Scene of Crime Off- icer. Then this came up, and I got what they call a Lateral Transfer .. I couldn't take another minute of Los Angeles .. Felt like I'd said sorry in every street in the city ..
HELENA: Sorry?
BERLIN: .. sorry your father, mother sis- ter, whatever .. I couldn't take another day of it .. Come on, I'm gonna rob you of a cup of coffee ..
HELENA: Coz I wanted to feel the snow on my face .. I think that's when I heard her call him John? Is it snowing now?
BERLIN: No. Getting dark though. You think you'd know this man? If he was in the room with you again?
HELENA: You've already asked me that .. Amber's dead, isn't she?
BERLIN: Yes. I'm sorry.
CITRINE: You're pushing this too hard. It's like you want me to say stop? You must know that's the way this is going, John? There's other work to do, why don't ya ease off a little?
BERLIN: Coz this is a major this bastard than anyone's ever been.
CITRINE: Then where's the body? .. Where's the body, and why's he hidden it?
BERLIN: He hasn't hidden it. He never made a hit this far north before, and he never read a weather forecast .. She's probably fifteen feet from the highway, three feet under snow.
CITRINE: Have you got a match on the bullet?
BERLIN: No.
CITRINE: Have you got a print from the hand?
BERLIN: No, Sir.
CITRINE: It could be anyone's hand. Illeg- ally disposed of hospital debris ..
BERLIN: It's her hand. Her scars. Her dog. Her dog's shot. And she's missing.
CITRINE: She's not "missing." Did she shout? Did she scream? Did he coerce her? No. She left of her own free will .. And if she gets on a plane and goes to Peru with the prick, she's still not missing. You got no case, John.
BERLIN: If you're not gonna hear me, Chief ..
CITRINE: I have heard you. You just don't like hearing me. You got this whole damned thing outta proportion. I don't know what you gotten used to in Los Angeles, but I don't believe there's a Police Chief, in this country, would put a task force together for a body part ..
BERLIN: We have a multiple homicide, Sir ..
CITRINE: We have a body part in suspicious circumstances - a tailor's dummy wearing a brassiere - and a bill for seventeen dollars for its wig!
ROSS: Did he shut you down?
BERLIN: All but .. How you doing?
ROSS: I dunno, I daren't go in there - just about get her wired up, and the fucking mayor walks in - mad as hell - what are we doing fuck- ing with his staff? We should be out chasing major violators ..
BERLIN: I wish he'd tell that to Citrine. He thinks the kid shot the dog .. He didn't.
ROSS: Did I say he did?
BERLIN: You looked like you did?
ROSS: No, I think you'll find I looked like he could have? By accident even? He's up here spraying the scenery all day.
BERLIN: He didn't shoot it, Ross. And no way by accident. There's a flash-burn. It was point-blank.
SERATO: Flying colors ...
ROSS: Say you didn't say that, Angelo?
SERATO: I said it.
ROSS: Oh my God Mother's shit. Are we in it?
EXPERT: This is the important one. She gets a dead straight line, and that's an exceptional reading ..
SERATO: .. this is the stupidest thing we ever done. Fucking Citrine's gonna fire one of us for this ..
ROSS: I can't believe it. I just know she someway busted it.
EXPERT: This is an honest girl. She couldn't lie if she tried ..
BERLIN: Is she lying, Ross?
ROSS: Yes.
BERLIN: My name's Sergeant John Berlin. I been a policeman 17 years: 16 years 9 months of which with the L.A.P.D. I witnessed literally hundreds of lie-detector tests, and I never seen one like this?
EMERSON: What d'ya mean, Sergeant?
BERLIN: Well, look at it. Look at this line? That's the important one. Dead straight down the page. No- body gets a dead straight down the page. Even our expert says a dead straight's "exceptional." Thought you might wanna comment?
EMERSON: I wasn't actually lying, Officer.
BERLIN: You busted the box, lady! You flunk- ed it .. You lied about things you didn't need to lie about .. The only truthful statement you made's your name .. Your name is Carol Emerson? You tell one more lie, you're go- ing in a cell. Sergeant Ross is coming in to take your statement.
MARGIE: Such a shame .. She's a really sweet kid ..
ROSS: She's a doll. But I wish he hadn't brought her out here. Bobby, what happened to that beer? Rule one, is you don't diddle around with a witness.
MARGIE: He's happy, darlin ..
ROSS: I'm sure he is. But gettin in- to the "element" is a bad idea. Tell em I'm going up the coast a way, get out of this weather.
MARGIE (O.S.): Except for the hair color, she looks just like Suzanne?
ROSS (O.S.): Well, that's who she is. Cept she can't run away.
MARGIE: You want something, darling?
ROSS: I wouldn't mind another B.E.E.R. How much longer you on that diet?
BERLIN: I'm doing it by the day ... How's your little sister?
MARGIE: She's in Europe ..
BERLIN: Working?
ROSS: She married some English prick.
MARGIE: He's not that bad of a guy ..?
ROSS: Got a handshake like a partially excited penis.
MARGIE: Her loss, darlin .. Anyway, you're doing O. K. She's a sweet heart.
ROSS: Why's she blind, Bro?
BERLIN: Car accident. Whole family wiped out.
ROSS: No shit. Strap me in. Here comes another. Worst day's fishing I ever had ..
BERLIN: It's been a great day.
ROSS: You just go easy, Brother ... (Looks at fish) Alright, we're all goin home.
HELENA (V.O.): I really liked Margie .. What does she do?
BERLIN (V.O.): She runs a kind of hair dress- ing and you know, beauty salon ..
HELENA (V.O.): Have you known her long?
BERLIN (V.O.): I was married to her sister .. You don't ask what I'm like?
HELENA: I know what you're like ..
BERLIN: How d'you know what I'm like?
HELENA: Ross told me.
BERLIN: Really? What did he say?
HELENA: He said you're quite chubby. And you have a nervous tick.
BERLIN: He said that? What else did he say?
HELENA: Just your age.
BERLIN: Which is what?
HELENA: Fifty-seven .. I don't mind ..
BERLIN: You wanna drive? C'mon we're in a car park, miles from any- where .. There's nothing arou- nd but nothing and sand dunes .. C'mon it'll be fun. You can drive me around in circles .. We're going along a little track. It's O.K. It's not a public road. It's alright, I'm sorry. It was my fault, it wasn't a good idea.
HELENA: That was the "Hollow Car," John.
BERLIN: A Volkswagen van? Are you sure?
CITRINE: I'm shutting you down on this "blind thing," John.
BERLIN: Is that my punishment for embarrassing Mr Heineman?
CITRINE: Don't underestimate me .. the Mayor's pissed - but that's nothing to do with this - sit down - How many times have you been up at that institute?
BERLIN: Three or four.
CITRINE: I'm talking, outside the girl?
BERLIN: Once.
CITRINE: Got a letter from this Goodridge guy? Says, you're upsetting his students?
BERLIN: That's bullshit,
CITRINE: He says, you freaked one of em out? (Reading the letter) "Asking a newly blind kid if he can 'see,' is both cruel, and dangerous" ..
BERLIN: I never asked if he could "see." I just asked one or two of the stud- ents if they remembered anything?
CITRINE: And did they?
BERLIN: No.
CITRINE: I'm not a nasty man, John, I'm a nice man .. I get a lot of Christmas cards (a lot of cards on the wall) .. and I'm getting a lot of complaints. The guy you replaced was something you- 're not - a lazy sonovabitch - but the reality is, I was getting a faster ser- vice outta Popeye than I am outta you .. I can't allow this to continue, John .. I don't want you up at that institute again .. and I'm flat-out about that .. I'm sorry, I know it means something to you - you can go tell your witness if you feel you must - but as far as you're concerned, the case is closed ..
BERLIN: God, it pisses me off, Ross.
ROSS: No God, Brother. If there was a God, asses wouldn't be at the perfect height for kicking.
VENABLES: Can I buy you a beer, Sergeant?
ROSS: Don't try and ingratiate your- self with me, Venables. But just this once I'll have a Heineken .. and John here will have one, too. (Look at those Amazingly Bos- oms) You wanna beer, King Jay?
TAYLOR: No, I gotta go .. I'm nights ..
BLATTIS: Gimme a ride?
TAYLOR: Sure .. How's that hand-job comin along, John?
ROSS: Hey, we're not talking "talk" tonight.
TAYLOR: No one's gonna make that Gent. Six months investigation, & the nearest we got, we thought he was a sailor.
BERLIN: A sailor?
TAYLOR: Yeah, in and outta Frisco on the big boats .. Every lead we had went right out to sea .. Night, night, Freddy T .. John ..
BERLIN: How come he's suddenly so forth- coming? I'd like to kick him right in the ass. If he'd discussed it with me, I mighta gotten somewhere ..
ROSS: Stop it.
BERLIN: I never knew about the sailor the- ory, Ross. He might have that one little thing I need in his files?
ROSS: John, stop it. The case is on its ass, you're closed. (Reaches for a menu.) C'mon, let it go for once .. Have a drink. C'mon, relax, drink your beer .. Alright .. Let's have some wine ..
ROSS: You gotta stop calling Los Angeles .. You're dragging L.A. around with you like an addiction.  Look at the shit you're putting yourself through? For what? For nothing, I know it, I been there. Remember me? Up to my asshole in anger, living off the vitamins in cigarettes?  If there's a body under the snow, fuck it. Let somebody else worry about it. You gotta accept you stopped living in that world, & try and give yourself a break in this ..
BERLIN: Just makes to so God damned mad ..
ROSS: You're a fucking great policeman, but give yourself a break. You're here 5 minutes, you find yourself a fucking homicide? .. Not many people could do that in a place like this .. And you gotta admit, there's a lot of shaky areas in this case? .. I mean, stop me if I'm going up the wrong nostril .. How d'you know this girl isn't lying to you .. Not lying as such, but mak- ing up stuff to keep you coming back?
BERLIN: She wasn't lying about the van.
ROSS: Alright, she wasn't lying about the van. But it could have been any van? Any little foreign diesel? .. She's blind, Bro .. It's sad .. She's pro- bably lonely, and you're a nice guy to have around .. But you're getting far too far into the element, Brother ..
BERLIN: Sure.
ROSS: You don't need me to tell you what hap- pens when you get emotionally involved?
BERLIN: Alright, enough, Ross. You'll bring on my "Nervous Tick" ...
BERLIN: .. feel like I'm getting close to this guy .. and all the time, feel like I'm sharpening a pencil with a broken load .. I'm sorry, King J ..
TAYLOR: What are you looking for?
BERLIN: Vehicle references.
TAYLOR: Wrong cabinet. I'm gonna get some coffee. When you finish in here, maybe you'll let me know? .. I got a report to type up ..
HELENA: I wanted it to be a surprise.
BERLIN: I have to talk to you, Helena.
HELENA: I know.
BERLIN: You know? How do you know?
HELENA: Coz you hardly said a word since you got here. But you been thinking pretty loud .. I'll make some more coffee.
BERLIN: Got your driver's license? I noticed you coming outta the institute. You up there a lot?
WOMAN: Oh, it was you that nearly ran into me?
BERLIN: No, it was you that nearly ran into me .. You up there a lot?
WOMAN: I guess, more than usual this time of the year. My mother & I run an Arts & Crafts center, we buy a lot from the institutes ..
BERLIN: Where's your store, Amanda?
WOMAN: Oakland.
BERLIN: Next pit-stop, you make sure your doors are locked.  Merry Christmas.
TAYLOR: Just easy on the words you're putting in my face, Sergeant ..
ROSS: Whass going on here?
TAYLOR: His blind friend got "attacked." Angelo went up there, and some- how, it got itself in the paper.
BERLIN: You put it in there.
TAYLOR: I may have said some- thing. I don't recall.
BERLIN: Don't lie, Taylor. I just had this Blattis guy on the phone asking me for a comment - you gave him the whole damned case!
TAYLOR: Alright, I gave him the case? .. So the case is closed, so what?
BERLIN: So read it! You just hung a target around her neck!
TAYLOR: Bullshit.
BERLIN: Don't you know nothing about this guy? He reads the newspapers. Col- lects the cuttings. When are they gonna find her? Now he's reading Helena Robertson's name, phrased like she's a fucking witness. You couldn't have done anything more stupid if you'd sat down & tried ..
TAYLOR: Hey, c'mon, country boys, let's all line up and hear the expert.
BERLIN: Just walk away from me, Taylor ..
TAYLOR: You think you're the only guy ever worked a homicide? I was a big-city cop too. And I bust- ed the clock on fucken Jennifer. I know more about this man than you'll over know - and that's how I know it ain't him - you- 're investigating a soap-opera ..
ROSS: Alright, guys. We stop this now.
TAYLOR: He tells her, "bye-bye," and she gets "attacked." Well, give me a fucking break! There is no "Ser- ial Killer." Stick her name up in neon, there's still no Serial kil- ler! And I ain't the only one say- ing it. Everyone in this building is saying it. And I mean everyone.
ROSS: Shut up, King Jay ..
TAYLOR: No, c'mon, Freddy, let's have this out & over. You know what everyone thinks? They think you're making a case coz you found yourself a nice piece of ass. And no one's blaming you for it, I hear she's worth the flowers. But don't come in here get- ting holy over us. Sure I put it in the paper. Coz I wanted to stop this bullshit. I don't want you drunk out- ta your head searching my office ag- ain. it's pissing me, & everyone off.
BERLIN: You don't know what you done, Taylor.
TAYLOR: If, your friend from San Diego was up here, and thought for one out of two fucken seconds, she was a danger to him, he'da taken her out weeks ago .. Why don't you get yourself a dict- ionary? Look up the word "witness?"
BERLIN: I know what a "witness" is.
TAYLOR: Well, her, it ain't. That bitch is blind as a blonde fucken bat.
BERLIN: I'm gonna do something you never did, Taylor. I'm gonna catch this bastard. And when I do, he's gon- na find out just how good a "wit- ness" she is .. Meanwhile, you be aware of me - coz I wish you ill ..
BERLIN: Nothing you gotta say do I wanna hear right now. So save yourself saying it.
ROSS: I'm not in here to apologize, John. I told you what was gonna happen & it's happened? "Good-bye, Princess," & the same night she gets attacked? That's a tough one to swallow, Bro?
BERLIN: I'm already familiar with Taylor's opinion.
ROSS: You don't really believe this?
BERLIN: One hundred fucking per cent! .. And you know why? Coz I never told her good-bye. O.K.? Is that good enough for the "committee?"
ROSS: Well .. I didn't know that ..
BERLIN: No .. You didn't know that .. Here. You left your booze in here.
ROSS: Who d'you think it was? You think it was him?
BERLIN: That's a very stupid question, Ross.
ROSS: I'm asking it.
BERLIN: How the hell do I know who? Some jerk-off. Some peeping-tom prick. .. but definitely not him. This guy's in the trade. He's not gon- na stand there looking at her ass, if he's in the room, she's dead ..
ROSS: Ease off, John ..
BERLIN: I'm sick of this toy town shit.
ROSS: Everything you say sounds reason- able. But there's also a reason- able explanation for the opposite.
BERLIN: Don't give me that! Not another word! When you had the Fat Lady in there, and I asked you if she was lying, you looked me right in the eyes and said yes. So as far as I was concerned, she's ly- ing. And if the King of fucking England had walked in & told me different, I wouldn't have bel- ieved him - because you told me .. And now I'm telling you. I'm looking you right in the eyes and telling ya, there's a "bad man" out there, and I don't know if he's in the next room, or the next state: and I don't know what his trigger is? But if he reads her name in the newspaper, I believe he'll be inclined to do something ab- out it. I've got a bad feeling. And I been doing this too long to be wrong.
ROSS: I dunno what I can do to help you?
BERLIN: I dunno what I'd do with your help. I've gotta take her out of there ..
ROSS: What about Citrine?
BERLIN: Screw Citrine. He can fire me.
BERLIN: Has he got your aunt's address?
HELENA: I don't think so .. He said the police had been calling .. want- ed to ask me some more questions ..
BERLIN: Who? (She doesn't know) Probably Angelo .. I'll take care of it .. Don't worry, we- 're gonna find this guy, and everything'll be O.K. .. O.K.?
BERLIN: You're looking worried again, Helena?
HELENA: No I'm not.
BERLIN: You're looking more worried now than when you "decided to stop worrying"?
HELENA: Alright, I'm worried about Christmas. I wish I hadn't told him I'd be back ..
BERLIN: He'll get over it. I'll roast us a chicken, O.K.  With cand- les around it. How about that?
HELENA: Wouldn't it be better if I cook it? You said, you can only boil?
BERLIN: Can't thank you enough, Ross ..
ROSS: Don't thank me. Thank Margie. It's her invitation. And as far as Citrine in concerned, better we keep it like that. There's an old desperado in one of the cells. Why don't you give him this, and tell him happy Christmas from me?
MARGIE: Not "you" blue. This isn't you.
HELENA: When did John divorce?
MARGIE: Two or three years ago.
HELENA: What was she like?
MARGIE: Suzanne? Very pretty. She was a semi- professional model. But a policeman's wife she wasn't. So one day, she just packed it and left. And his whole life went straight down the nearest toilet.
HELENA: What does that mean?
MARGIE: You know, he crashed. He just couldn't come to terms with it .. John hates to lose, and he hated losing her .. Every spare minute, he's driving down to San Diego, having a terrible time with her, getting drunk, and driving back .. you just don't believe the amount he drank .. Wait a minute, I just had the most brilliant idea ..
HELENA: You think he still loves her?
MARGIE: Think he still thinks about her. But not like then. Then was an obsession. Here .. try these .. if these fit, we got the perfect dress ..
HELENA: I haven't worn heels since I was 16. I don't think I could walk in these?
MARGIE: Sure you can. Anyway, parties are all about standing still .. I'll go get the dress .. It's kinda sultry .. I only wore it once, coz in reality, I can't get away with it ..
HELENA: You think John would like it?
MARGIE: I think John, would love it ...
ROSS: Let's do one of these right now, then we'll hide the sonovabitch.
SERATO: Duty Sergeant fucked up .. can you believe it, I'm on tonight .. Did you get my message?
BERLIN: No.
SERATO: I left a message on your machine. It wasn't me calling. Sam around?
ROSS: Yeah .. I guess she's in the kit- chen .. We got a so-called prof- essional cook out there having a nervous breakdown over a turkey ..
BERLIN: Are you sure you didn't call?
SERATO: I spoke to old whass-his-name a couple of times. But not to her, and I never asked for her ..
ROSS: Her who?
BERLIN: Someone's calling the institute to talk to Helena. Says he wants to ask her some more questions ..
SERATO: Not guilty ..
BERLIN: You got a quiet phone somewhere?
ROSS: Hey, John, don't start getting antsy over this tonight. It may well have been the local cops?
BERLIN: That's just what I wanna find out.
MARGIE: How you doing on those shoes?
HELENA: Don't mix very well with beer.
MARGIE: Girl like you should be drinking chill white wine. Press. All done.
BOBBY: That woman in the kitchen says if she doesn't get help within 10 seconds, she's gonna resign.
MARGIE: That woman is a disaster ... Alright, tell her I'm coming. No, wait a minute, honey. Take Helena for me, and find John? And don't let go of her hand until you do ..
BOBBY: I'll just go see if he's in the kitchen .. you stay right here ..
VENABLES: Hey, Popeye!
POPEYE: Hey, Fat Guy! Gimme 2 minutes. I'm about to ask this lady for a dance? If I told you I'd driven all the way from Oakland would you dance with me? What's so special about the other guy? You like cops, don't you .. I'm a cop .. .. let me ask you a question? How do you know the difference between one guy and another? .. Maybe you don't .. Maybe you only know the "difference" when you're dancing? (he laughs) If you knew what I looked like, you'd dance with me. I look like John Wayne ..
HELENA: I know what you look like. Excuse me.
FLESHY VOICE: Happy Christmas, Max ...
MAX: I normally get socks ...
MARGIE: She wants to go back to the institute .. You better go talk to her ..
ROSS: I know .. ain't it a shame ..
HELENA: I can't walk in these shoes ..
ROSS (O.S.): You can't get in there .. That's "Comanche Proof."
BERLIN: Jesus. What are you doin?
ROSS: I spose I'm drinking myself to sleep. It's Helena's Christmas songs .. they're really pretty ..
BERLIN: Have you got any Glasers? (Ross does) Twenty fives?
ROSS: What exactly you doing, John?
BERLIN: I'm going up to the institute.
ROSS: Now?
BERLIN: This "cop" that's calling, thinks she gonna be there over Christmas. I checked with the locals and our station, no one's called. Whoever it is, isn't the police.  I think this bastard's getting worried ab- out something? .. and I think the- re's just a chance he'll turn up.
ROSS: Well, let's hope he does .. And if he does, I'm gonna drop a bomb on the fukker.
BERLIN: Listen, you don't havta come?
ROSS: Hey .. Watch my lips. I'm your partner.
ROSS: Where's your watch?
BERLIN: I guess by the bed.
ROSS: It's twenty of three. A little young for you, Bro? (Gets his eyes) You think if she could see, she'd be hanging around with an old dog like you? You got a stomach growing around to meet itself behind your back.
BERLIN: Bull shit .. I'm in my prime ..
ROSS: Bits.
BERLIN: What d'you mean, "bits."
ROSS: Policemen's bodies age at diff- erent rates. Look at me. Gut in its fifties. Balls in their six- ties. And feet in their eighties ..
BERLIN: Hit those wipers, Ross.
ROSS: What if we need a back up?
BERLIN: We're not here. I don't want the desk to hear us ..
BERLIN: Alright. I'll start at the top, and work down.
ROSS: You ain't going in alone?
BERLIN: That's a liability, Ross. I don't want you hanging on to my shirt. Anyone but me comes down these stairs, take em out but try and keep him alive. I want this bastard living ..
ROSS [BERLIN]: [I'm on Helena's floor .. I'm just gonna take a look at her apartment .. You O.K.] Fucken flashlight's kaput .. [Door's locked .. shit] What's happen- ing, Brother? [I can hear some- thing? .. Something upstairs?]
BERLIN [?]: Me, Freddy.
ROSS: What the hell's going on up there, Brother? I been calling 10 minutes. Hey, c'mon, John .. Talk to me ... Jesus Christ .. What are you doing? What the fuck are you doing? - It's me - Holy shit! - John - John - Not you - Don't shoot you crazy bastard!
MYOPIC: Gimme the police. Quickly.
BERLIN: Where's Margie?
SERATO: Taken Bobby to her sister's .. They were going there anyway.
BERLIN: Does he know?
SERATO: Thinks his dad's in hospital. Why'd you go up there, John?
BERLIN: I want you to go to your Aunt's.
HELENA: Why can't I stay with you?
BERLIN: It's not possible right now.
HELENA: Why?
BERLIN: Please don't ask no quest- ions now .. Not right now ..
HELENA: Is that Margie?
MARGIE: I'm here, honey. I'm right here. Don't cry darlin .. he was a big old cop and he didn't like tears .. Feels like every second in my life, was just the moment leading to this.
BERLIN: Margie ..
MARGIE: Don't. Don't. What's gonna happen now, John?
BERLIN: She has an aunt, in Vermont. I'll take her there tonight.
HELENA: I'm going back to the institute.
BERLIN: No .. not now ..
MARGIE: Helena can stay here if she'd like to .. I'd like her to .. I'll look after her .. and she can look after me .. I'm tired now .. I must sleep ..
(ROSS): You want me to make a predict- ion? This guy ain't turning up.
(BERLIN): Maybe not .. What time is it?
(ROSS): Twenty-six minutes past two ..
(BERLIN): You shouldn't have come, Ross.
(ROSS): Don't worry .. You take your time .. I just wanna be back in time for Bobby's presents ..
BERLIN: What are you doing, Travis?
TRAVIS: I been told to take your car in, Sir.
BERLIN: Why?
TRAVIS: I dunno, Sir. Brought you up a Chevy. I'm sorry, Sergeant. I did knock a couple times. Didn't get any reply.
BERLIN: You got a warrant for this?
TRAVIS: Yes, Sir.
BERLIN: Who sought the warrant?
TRAVIS: The man from the F.B.I.
BERLIN: I want a 24 hour protection of Margie's house. Otherwise I'm not saying nothing. You give me that, or read me my rights, and talk to a lawyer.
CITRINE: Alright, you got it. And I'll be putting an Observer in with you.
BERLIN: I want Serato .. (Negative) Why can't I have Serato?
CITRINE: Coz I'm short of men elo won't do it .. Who ever I got free first - you get ..
BERLIN: I have done .. St ANNE Alright, let's not beat about the bush, what ever that may mean, and get down on it. You were specific- ally instructed by your chief, not to go anywhere near the blind inst- itute? So why did you go up there?
BERLIN: Because of a feeling. I had a bad feeling this man was gonna turn up. St ANNE Which man is that?
BERLIN: The man I detail in my report, Sir. Is this an interview, or an interrogation? St ANNE It's an enquiry ...
BERLIN: I'm not prepared to be interrog- ated. I'll be interviewed as an officer, who may be expected to cooperate with the investigator. St ANNE Well, that's fine by me, John. And I'm sure that's fine by your Chief. So you thought your man might show?
BERLIN: Yes. St ANNE Bit of a long-shot, wasn't it?
BERLIN: It was the only shot I had .. St ANNE So the one night you decide to go up there, he goes up there?
BERLIN: That's right. Except I'd decid- ed to go up there every night .. St ANNE Despite the wishes of your Chief?
BERLIN: Yes. St ANNE You were prepared to fal- sify your reports to him?
BERLIN: I had very good reasons for do.... St ANNE Just a second, John. I knew there was something missing. You don't mind if I jump around a little this morning, do you? Just while I'm easing my way into this?
BERLIN: You're asking the questions, Sir .. St ANNE You had an argument with Ross? Ass- aulted one of the officers, right?
BERLIN: I wouldn't use the word "assault." St ANNE You got a "racy temper," Sergeant?
BERLIN: Not especially. St ANNE Just something they did, on this occasion, made you lose your rag?
BERLIN: Not they. He. Taylor put a piece in the newspaper, which in my op- inion put my witness in jeopardy. St ANNE From whom?
BERLIN: From the man I detail in my rep- ort. A crazy man, who to my cert- ain knowledge has killed at least eight girls. Six in San Diego, one someplace else, and one up here .. St ANNE Not a lotta support for that "scenario" though, is there?
BERLIN: Not a lot. St ANNE Not even from Ross?
BERLIN: No. St ANNE Is that why you lost your temper with him? Frustration? No one believing you? So what can you tell me about you man?
BERLIN: What do you mean, Sir? St ANNE I mean, who is he?
BERLIN: I don't know who he is. Who's "Jack The Ripper?" He's Jack The Ripper with an automobile. St ANNE You didn't run a profile?
BERLIN: No, Sir .. I didn't have the res- ources, and it isn't my expertise. St ANNE This crazy man? What makes you think he wants to eliminate Miss Robertson?
BERLIN: You read my report, Sir. St ANNE I'm asking a question ..
BERLIN: Because he reads I'm investigating the disappearance of her friend, & Miss Robertson becomes the focus of his anxiety. How good of a "witness" is she? He's crazy, but not stupid, he's intelligent. Got a flexible M. O., and he doesn't wanna get caught. St ANNE Just like "Jack The Ripper?" Alright, we'll have plenty of time to discuss your "Mystery Man," and his "flexibility" later, Right now, I'd like to talk about the "event."
BERLIN: I realized the flashlight was at the bottom of the stairs St ANNE Did you check your weapon?
BERLIN: Maybe. It would have been instinctive. All I know was I was in possession of it .. St ANNE You didn't check it?
BERLIN: Not that I specifically remember. St ANNE Why not?
BERLIN: I don't know. I wasn't think- ing about it .. I was dazed .. St ANNE You were woozy? Confused?
BERLIN: I was unconscious 10 seconds ago. St ANNE I understand. Then?
BERLIN: Then I picked up the flashlight, tried to get Ross on the radio .. Nothing. Static. I got blood on my hand, realized my eye was cut. St ANNE Could you see out of it?
BERLIN: Yeah, I could see. Then I ran. Climbed out of the window, ran down the fire escape, and right at the bottom, I found Ross .. St ANNE Were you breathless?
BERLIN: Sure I was breathless ... St ANNE When did you realize you were no longer in possession of the .25?
BERLIN: Not until I was in the hospital. St ANNE You figure you lost it in the hospital? Or on the way there?
BERLIN: No, I thought it must have fallen down the stairwell. St ANNE [BERLIN] Like the flashlight? [Yeah] Had you been drinking that night?
BERLIN: It was Christmas Eve. St ANNE That wasn't my question?
BERLIN: Yes. St ANNE [BERLIN] How about Ross? [Sure] Were you drinking in the car? [?] There was a bottle in the car?
BERLIN: I think Ross had a mouthful? St ANNE But not you?
BERLIN: I may have had a nip? St ANNE To keep out the cold? .. Very cold that night, very windy, wasn't it? Which hand was the flashlight in?
BERLIN: My left hand. St ANNE And the Walther was in your right?
BERLIN: The Beretta was in my right hand .. St ANNE You said you didn't check it? So how d'you know which gun you're holding? You said you figured it had fallen down the stairs with the flashlight? You said you were confused? You pick up the flashlight in confusion, how d'you know you didn't pick up the 25?
BERLIN: Let's not start playing games, Mr St Anne. St ANNE Games?
BERLIN: I told you, I'd lost the Walther .. St ANNE You told me you didn't know you'd lost it until you were in the hos- pital? So, if you didn't know till then, it coulda been either weapon?
BERLIN: The gun in my hand was a Beretta. And for the record, I want that note corrected. Now, please, Sir. St ANNE O.K. I'm corrected. I'm sorry, I made a mistake.
BERLIN: With respect, Sir, you didn't make a mistake. I know who you are, and you're far too experienced for mis- takes. Now if you have doubts over the content, or veracity of my rep- ort, I wanna be made aware of them? St ANNE Sure.
BERLIN: I wanna be made aware of them now. St ANNE Do you want a lawyer, Sergeant?
BERLIN: There you go again? "Do I want a lawyer, Sergeant?" It's a game question. What do I want a law- yer for? I got nothing to hide .. St ANNE You don't?
BERLIN: You know I don't. So let's quit the bullshit and get down to it. What's your "angle," Mr St Anne? St ANNE Where's the little gun, Sergeant?
BERLIN: I've no idea. St ANNE You don't?
BERLIN: If it isn't in the institute, the man who shot Ross took it. St ANNE The man who shot Ross, used it .. And you don't know where that little twenty-five calibre Walther's gone? O.K. Sergeant, here it is. I intend to produce evidence, that will prove you shot Frederick Ross with malice afore- thought. My angle therefore, is to pre- pare a case on behalf of your Chief, to prosecute you for first degree murder.
BERLIN: Aren't you gonna arrest me? St ANNE You know better than that ... I arrest you, you'll get bail, and be walking outta here anyway - and I'll have no one to talk to - Your Chief said he'd make you available to me. If you go to the store, call in, and let your duty officer know.
MARGIE: Your Daddy would have wanted you to be strong .. We gotta be strong for Daddy, darling ..
BOBBY: I don't want her in this house .. I want my Dad. Why did she have to come here .. I want my Daddy ..
BERLIN: No. St ANNE Tell us what happened, then?
BERLIN: I already told you what happened .. You're looking for an inconsisten- cy, and you're not gonna find one, because I'm telling you the truth. St ANNE Tell me the truth again.
BERLIN: I guess I was drinking too much. St ANNE I was talking about "cigarettes?" (Score: 10 outta 10) Find yourself getting breathless?
BERLIN: Sure. St ANNE Specially if you're running? Which floor did the elevator run up to?
BERLIN: Five. St ANNE You ran up to the fifth? You must have been real breathless by then? We're gonna get our "observer" in here this afternoon. Keep an eye on us? (He smiles) Notorious for withholding information, the F.B.I. Were you aware there was a janit- or in the institute that night?
BERLIN: No. St ANNE You didn't check?
BERLIN: There wasn't time ... St ANNE That wasn't my question?
BERLIN: No, Sir, I didn't check. St ANNE I'm really catching cold up here? Must be all this fog?
BERLIN: What's the relevance of the janitor? St ANNE The janitor? Let me just ask you a question - before I forget - do you take any medication for that?
BERLIN: For what? St ANNE Breathlessness?
BERLIN: No. St ANNE Alright, let me answer your question? "What's the relevance of the janitor?" Why don't I take you through it, from where I'm sitting .. At some time bet- ween 2 & 2:30 a.m. the janitor thought he heard a vehicle approaching through the woods. He looks out, and sees noth- ing, no lights, nothing. Figures it must be hunters. Some time later, he thought he heard something else, like a door, or a window slam? He gets up, and between half past two and a quarter of three, he makes a search - with a flashlight - of the top 3 floors. Finds nothing untoward, & goes back to his apartment in the roof. The flashlight you saw, was his. The "footsteps" you heard, were his. The elevator you were chasing up and down after was empty, and is prone to such activity, due to an electrical fault .. Apparently it happens frequently dur- ing gales. The gale that was swinging the door. That knocked you down. That confused you so much? And here we are, back to where I'm sitting. You wanna tell me what really went on that night?
BERLIN: Two people know I didn't kill him, Mr St Anne. One's me, and the other's the man that did. St ANNE What man? We just dealt with "the man?"
BERLIN: How d'you know the Jan- itor didn't shoot him? You're telling me it's his flashlight I saw, O.K., he sees my flashlight? And I'm coming up the stairs with a Beretta in my hand. And he's frightened. He hits the door on me. Picks up my gun. He's running. He runs into Ross, and in panic, he shoots him. St ANNE Not unless he had a gun in one hand, and a phone in the other, he didn't. Ross was shot at ex- actly two fifty-seven a.m. The janitor put a call through to the local police, at 2:57 a.m. You obviously realize how I can get so accurate with my timing? Ross switched into channel 8, & we got a recording of the whole incident. I was gonna play it to you, but I got a meeting, we'll have to do it after lunch. It's one, let's make it back by three?
INTRUDER: Got really fucken lucky, didn't ya? I was getting kinda concerned about you Jenny. Like, how blind are you? Blind as your friend? Or less blind? Coz she could see, you know. Had a view outta one of em. But you don't see nothing do you? Nothing at all? Can you see this, blind girl? Gimme your hand. Gimme your fucken hand. You like it? I cut your friend's head off with that .. You say something, Jenny?
SERATO: She's in love with him, Chief, and try anything?
CITRINE: Are you going up there?
SERATO: No, I just sent Travis. I've got a call to make.
CITRINE: What about the man? .. Has he seen this? .. [No he hasn't] .. Alright, make your call, and get up there ... Bullshit or not, I wanna proper statement ..
ASSISTANT: No, Sir, they just got back.
CITRINE: Would you ask Mr St Anne to come in here a moment?
BISLEY: I hear I've been nominated as an official "observer?"
CITRINE: It's either you, or Taylor?
BISLEY: He don't wanna do it either.
CITRINE: I'll toss a coin for you. But one of you is going in today .. What do you wanna do with it? St ANNE Let him have it .. I don't mind putting a little salt at the edge of his plate ..
BERLIN: I need a friend, Angelo.
SERATO: You got one. She's a bad witness, John. But a fucking lousy alibi.
BERLIN (O.S.): .. I know why you did it darlin, but you're not helping me. Every- thing they're hearing they think is a lie. Now here comes the man I'm desperate to prove exists, & whadda-ya-know, he turns up at my house, and has a "chat" with you? No one in the State of California is gonna believe that. They got the man in there - an A/1 F.B.I. inter- rogator, and he's taking me to pie- ces - doesn't believe a word comes outta my head - not a word - no one believes me - I don't believe me ..
HELENA: Don't say that. Don't you dare say that .. I believe you  ..
BERLIN: I know you're trying to help me, but you don't understand.
HELENA: Then explain it to me. I got enough darkness, don't I?
BERLIN: The man who killed Amber is a psychopath. He was up at the in- stitute to kill you - he don't wanna kill Rose - he was there to kill you - that's the truth - and I didn't wanna tell it to you - but that's the reason I want you to stay at Margie's - coz I can't protect you here ..
HELENA: Why does he want to kill me?
BERLIN: Coz he thinks you're a witness.
HELENA: I can't identify him ..
BERLIN: He don't know that. I didn't.
HELENA: Then why didn't he kill me? Why didn't he kill me, John?
BERLIN: Will you fucken stop it. I'm not Serato .. He didn't kill you coz he wasn't here .. he isn't in the room with you, and lets you live ..
HELENA: Kiss me, John .. Kiss me [he does] I love you, kiss me again [he does] I love you .. Are my lips lying to you? Kiss my mouth [he does] Is my mouth lying to you?  He. Was. Here.
HELENA (O.S.): I just remembered something .. He used a breath freshener.
BERLIN: A "breath freshener?"
HELENA: I heard it hiss, twice.
BERLIN: ... he's either here to take something .. or leave some- thing .. I don't find nothing ..
HELENA: You gotta stop drinking, darling. He's glad you're drinking. Every drink you take you're helping him.
BERLIN: He doesn't need my help.
HELENA: I know about alcohol, John.
BERLIN: You do?
HELENA: I'm blind because my father drank. I lost everyone I ever loved .. I lost my hopes .. my future .. I'm in love with you, John .. I don't want them to take you away from me ..
BERLIN: Ross was my best friend. St ANNE Did you shoot your "best friend?"
BERLIN: No. St ANNE The next time I ask you that quest- ion, you're gonna tell me the truth.
[TAPE]: .. "Just be careful now, coz I'm coming up." .. [Footsteps on cast iron stairs] "Is that you, John? .. Answer .. Now .. or I blow this fucken staircase to pie- ces." [Sound of someone breathing hard] "Me, Freddy." .. [Just the gale] "What the hell's going on up there, Brother? I been calling ton minutes." .. [Lungs heave for air) "Hey, c'mon, John, talk to me?" [Just the sound of breathless- ness] "Jesus Christ .. What are you do- ing? What the fuck are you doing? It's me - Holy shit - John - John - Not you - Don't shoot you crazy bastard! [2 shots] St ANNE That's second degree - you wanna stop at that? Will you give me that, John?
TAYLOR: He's offerin you a deal? Why don't you take it ..
BERLIN: He ain't offerin me shit. You're letting it show, King Jay.
TAYLOR: I don't like you. But don't kid yourself .. I don't take no ple- asure sitting in on another cop .. Your an alcoholic, aren't you? (BERLIN stares) It's written in your file .. They want you to look in the mirror.
MYOPIC: Well .. I dunno .. it could be? St ANNE Alright, thank you, Mr Dawson ..
CITRINE: What's all this "deal" business? St ANNE I can have him out of here on a sec- ond degree this afternoon. I own him, and he knows it. And, Chief, I'm still waiting for that warrant on his house?
BERLIN: You don't wanna sit here any more, sweetheart ..
HELENA: I wanna be near you ...
BERLIN: I think they're gonna arrest me.
HELENA: I don't want them to arrest you.
BERLIN: It's not as bad as it sounds .. They can't refuse me bail. Raise bail of my own cognizance & find the best damned lawyer there is ..
HELENA: Oh, John, I'd do anything, anything, to get you free.
BERLIN: I've told you the truth. It isn't me .. I've never call- ed Ross "Freddy" in my life ..
TAYLOR: I've heard you call him Freddy.
BERLIN: You haven't. And you got no voice in here, Taylor, so keep it shut. St ANNE Tell a lotta lies, don't you? Some- thing that comes naturally to you?
BERLIN: I don't lie. St ANNE Prepared to lie to your Chief?
BERLIN: Under exceptional circumstances. St ANNE What were the circumstances that caused you to lie to Freddy Ross?
BERLIN: I never lied to Ross .. St ANNE You didn't? Well, he thought you did? .. Wrote it down in his book? "John Berlin is a liar." Right here, underlined. Dated the day you got your first "break" with your "Mystery Man?" You don't know why he wrote that? (He doesn't) Maybe he thought there was no "Myst- ery Man?" That the investigation was bullshit? That you were making it up? Coz you wanted to be "Top Cop?" Isn't that why you went running up that gar- bage dump, so everyone could stand in awe of the "Top Cop?" Isn't that why you came up here? Coz you couldn't make it in L.A.? Get yourself a pissy lit- tle degree, come up here, and be "Top Guy?" But Ross was "Top Guy", wasn't he? Always would be Top Guy? And you know what? He did it without even trying .. Everybody loved him. He had everything you wanted, didn't he? - Great woman - Great kid? - Everything you couldn't have? - And you wanted it to go away? Coz your life was lousy, wasn't it? - A lousy life, with a lousy wife, who was fucking everyone, wasn't she? Is that why you pick on a little Blind Girl? - coz you can control her? - Is that it? - Control who she's fucking? You wanna lose your temper with me? C'mon, John, lose your fucken temper? You're good at losing your temper?..
BERLIN: No way, Mr St Anne. St ANNE Lost your temper with Ross, didn't you? C'mon, tell me the truth. Is that what happened? You had an arg- ument in the car? Lost your temper with him? Stood over him, blew his fucking larynx out with a Glaser? - Where were you aiming, John? Going for his face? Blow his fucking face away, because you hated him so much.
BERLIN: I loved that guy .. est thing to take in here .. is knowing he thought I killed him .. St ANNE Well, that he did .. And that do I, Sergeant Berlin .. What do you take for that breathlessness, Sergeant? How about Aminophylline?
BERLIN: I don't know what that is. St ANNE You don't? It's ant anti-asthma medic- ation, prescribed for breathlessness? Came out of the ashtray of your car? But you "don't know" what it is? You don't know how it got there? You don't use it for breathlessness? I'm running outta questions, John, and you're running out of lies? I'm offer- ing you one last chance, and you better take it, or the U.S. Attorney is gonna put you in the God-damned gas chamber ..
BERLIN: I need .. some time .. to think Sir .. St ANNE Alright. Think about it. But don't you make a fool of me. You come in here with one more lie, and I bull- shit you not, I'm gonna press for the maximum penalty there is. And that's the death penalty, Sergeant.
BERLIN: We got a break - isn't much, but it's a break .. the man that murdered Ross gets asthma - it's not a breath fresh- ner, darling - it's an asthma inhaler ..
BERLIN: This capsule came out of a V.W. van - I didn't even think about it - stuck it in the ashtray - if I'd been smok- ing, ita been thrown away weeks ago .. (Phone) No, Amanda - it's definitely Amanda .. I had the van - this guy drove that van takes his medication and loses one .. (Phone) - Dan - Hearing - Are you sure? - Would you try Frisco for me? - I'll try and get a second name .. No Amanda with a white Volkswagen .. You don't have a Yellow Pages for Oakland, do you? (She don't) I got- ta get down there, find that store ..
BERLIN: You be careful .. This man's close ..
MARGIE: If you find him, John. I want you to call me. I wanna know his name.
BERLIN: I'm sorry to trouble you, but eh .. Wait a minute, don't I know you? You're Amanda? Remember, you near- ly ran into me? Way up in Trinity?
AMANDA: As I said, Sergeant, you nearly ran into me? What's the problem?
BERLIN: I'm afraid it's the "van" again.
AMANDA: The van?
BERLIN: Is it your vehicle?
AMANDA: No, my mother's .. You better stop in .. I'm just here to feed the cat.
BERLIN: I'm sorry to worry you with this, but we had a real serious robbery, and we- 're chasing a white V.W. van? You guy came up an the computer, so as a matt- er of routine we have to check. Could you tell me who's driven it recently?
AMANDA: Only me and Mom ..
BERLIN: How about any guys on your staff?
AMANDA: We only got one .. He doesn't drive.
BERLIN [AMANDA]: Would he have lent it to anyone? [No] How bout your Dad? Husband? Boyfriend?
AMANDA: He is my boyfriend. My fath- er's dead, and I'm divorced.
BERLIN: I see ... Would you mind if I took a look at it?
AMANDA: I thought this was "routine?" The only man that has driven it in the last 6 months is my uncle. And no way is he involved in a robbery.
BERLIN: Could I have his name? Just so I can officially eliminate him?
AMANDA: Could I see your badge again? Then you better go and get it. I feel uncomfortable without an I.D.
TAYLOR: We're not gonna find nothin here.
MALE REPORTER: Detectives spent several hours this morning at Sergeant Berlin's home .. various property was removed for ex- amination. Later in the morning, May- or Heineman arrived for a meeting with police officers from Shasta Valley ..
HEINEMAN (T.V.): Jim unable to say anything right now, except, this is a very sad and tragic day. John Berlin lied to us all. Lied to me, and much worse, lied to every man, woman, & child in this community ..
WOMAN REPORTER (T.V.): Where was Mr Berlin arrested, Sir?
HEINEMAN (T.V.): Near the Ross residence .. six a.m. ..
MALE REPORTER (T.V.): Who made the arrest?
HEINEMAN (T.V.): Sergeant John Taylor. Assist- ed by Sergeant Angelo Serato .. You'll have to put that question to the Chief. I've nothing to add.
BERLIN: I'll sign anything you want. Please. Bring here her .. I want Helena here ..
CITRINE: You ain't talking to no one, till you calm down.
BERLIN: I am calm .. I am calm .. Get St Anne .. I want St Anne ..
MARGIE: Jesus. What are you doing here?
TAYLOR: Been trying to call, your line's down .. I just wanna let you know we're taking the guard off today. Is she going somewhere?
MARGIE: I'm taking her back to the Instit- ute. Her new term starts tomorrow.
TAYLOR: Not gonna try and bail him are you? I really wouldn't bother, Margie .. You want me to drive her? .. I'm through with my shift ..
MARGIE: No .. I'll drive her ..
BERLIN: I'll sign anything you like - you write it, I'll sign it. But I want her and Margie here. I want an opp- ortunity to talk to them - that's all I'm asking? - That's my deal? .. St ANNE O.K. I'll put it to your Chief?
BERLIN: Well, you'd better put it to him pretty dammed quick, Mr St Anne, because if you don't, she's dead. St ANNE Didn't push her down stairs on their previous meeting, did he?
BERLIN: He was up there to plant the gun. St ANNE Did Taylor plant this, too? Is it yours? We found "Jennifer Eight." At least, we've found a headless and handless girl. A couple of hunters found her. About 4 miles south of the institute, less than 50 feet from the road. This was less than 100 feet from the body. Is it yours? - (no answer) - I know it's yours? - You know it's yours? The only prints on it are Freddy's? You wanna tell me how it got there?
TRAVIS: Margie Ross put up your bond, Sir.
BERLIN: Are you getting in the way of it? St ANNE I don't make the law.
BOBBY: There's no one here.
BERLIN: Where are they?
BOBBY: Mom took her back to the institute. I dunno. How come they let you out?
BERLIN: Is Margie with her? Is she with her?
BOBBY: No, she came back and went out ag- ain .. gone to see Auntie Charles .. They're my Dad's guns.
BERLIN: Come on, Bobby, for God's sake. I wanna get the man that killed him.
BOBBY: I hate you .. I really hate you ..
BERLIN (V.O.): Go take a look in his office. It's fulla rattan - that's the connect- ion, that's the "link" - that's why they never got an I.D. - He kills blind girls - put their picture in the newspaper, and 99 percent of the people who know them are blind .. St ANNE (V.O.) Havta be a real dope to kill her now, wouldn't he? I mean, we're talking real, full-blown, insane?
BERLIN (V.O.): He is insane. His fucken brain's upside down. But he's also very cunning. He's not going after her with a "Pearl Handled Colt," he- 'll just push her down the stairs ..
TAYLOR: Say night, night, dead girl.
