HELEN: You think it's too early to call my mother?
CHARLIE: I don't know.
HELEN: ( on phone ) Hello, Ma, did I wake you up? This is Helen.. Well, I'll be going to work, and I wanted to get ahold of you before I left. I called you last night. Where were you and Pop anyway? I kept calling you every half hour up till one o'clock.. Oh, yeah? Did you have a nice time? .
HELEN'S VOICE: Well, listen, Ma, I got something to tell you. I'm pregnant.. Yeah, pregnant.. Of course I'm sure. I've got the report back from the laboratory.. No, you wouldn't know him, Doctor Axelrod.. Second month. He says I can expect the baby in February.. Well, Grandma, act a little excited, will you? . You bet I'm excited..
HELEN: ( calling to the bedroom ) Do you need any of this or can I take them off the table? Charlie appears in the bedroom doorway, dressed and washed now, a neat, clean young man in a white shirt and neatly knotted tie.
CHARLIE: I'll clean that up in a minute.
HELEN: How late were you up last night?
CHARLIE'S VOICE: About two.
CHARLIE: I'm taking five bucks from your He pauses now to affix a less frowning expression onto his face and goes out into the little foyer and into the dining INTERIOR. THE DINING AREA Helen is seated at the dinette table, sipping coffee and reading yesterday's newspaper. There are two cups of coffee on the table.
CHARLIE: A guy in my office is getting married, and I got clipped four bucks for his wedding present.
HELEN: Who's getting married?
CHARLIE: Arnold. I told you about him. The guy with the sick mother.
HELEN: Oh, yeah.
CHARLIE: ( trying to decide whether he needs a certain worksheet ) The rest of the guys are giving him a bachelor party tonight.
HELEN: Do you want to go, Charlie?
CHARLIE: I got class tonight.
HELEN: What have you got cost accounting?
CHARLIE: I think you ought to take off a night. You ought to go, have a little fun for yourself. I think you need that. You go to work all day, you go to school all night. You can miss one night, Charlie.
HELEN: I think you ought to take off a night. You ought to go, have a little fun for yourself. I think you need that. You go to work all day, you go to school all night. You can miss one night, Charlie.
CHARLIE: No, these bachelor parties get kind of wild sometimes. The whole philosophy is: it's the groom's last night of freedom. So it gets kind of wild sometimes.
HELEN: That's a good philosophy to start a marriage with.
CHARLIE: Well, a bunch of guys get together, they like to tear up the town a He has assembled his notes and notebooks and texts in a pile on the table, ready to take with him. He sits down and begins sipping his coffee. Helen looks back to her newspaper, frowning a little, then looks up at Charlie again.
HELEN: I think you oughta go, Charlie. I know you're upset about the baby.
CHARLIE: I'm not upset about the baby.
HELEN: Come on, Charlie. I know how you feel. Listen, you don't have to pretend you're excited about the baby. We weren't exactly planning on a baby right now .
CHARLIE: I'm not upset about the baby.
HELEN: It's a shock. I had some bad days before I told you. I said: "Oh, boy, that's all we need. A baby." Then I said to myself: "If I'm having a baby, I'm having a baby. That's all there is to it." And I like the idea. We're going to have a family, Charlie. I like the idea.
CHARLIE: Well, give me a couple of days to get used to the idea. I'll be all I know you will, Charlie. That's why I think you ought to go to this bachelor party tonight.
HELEN: I know you will, Charlie. That's why I think you ought to go to this bachelor party tonight.
CHARLIE: ( bursting out ) I don't want to go to this bachelor He looks down at his coffee, embarrassed at the outburst.
CHARLIE: I'm sorry I yelled.
HELEN: Don't be silly.
CHARLIE: I better get going. Kenny's probably waiting for me now. I'm sorry I yelled like that.
HELEN: What are you sorry about? Don't I yell at you all the time?
KENNETH: You going to Arnold's bachelor party?
CHARLIE: I don't think so, Kennie.
KENNETH: I got two classes tonight.
CHARLIE: I got two classes tonight.
KENNETH: Yeah, I was going to go, but I think I better not, because my kid, the young one, the girl, she's been acting up again lately. She's got some kind of allergy, the doctors don't know what.
CHARLIE: These bachelor parties get kind of wild sometimes. Eddie Watkins is making all the arrangements. He's probably got us lined up with a bunch of chorus girls.
KENNETH: Yeah, do you think so?
CHARLIE: You know Eddie.
KENNETH: Yeah, boy, he really lives it up, don't he? Did you see that blonde who picked him up for lunch last week? Boy, sometimes I wish I was a bachelor. Well, you know what I mean. I never seem to get out of the house any more, you know what I mean? About once a week, I go to the movies. We never even see the whole picture. My wife starts worrying about the kids. My youngest kid, the girl, she's got some kind of rash. We don't know what it is. I never seem to see anybody any more. Do you know how long it is since I've seen Willie Duff? I haven't seen Willie in about six months. My wife can't stand his wife. You ever seen her, Willie's wife?
CHARLIE: No, I didn't know Willie too well.
KENNETH: Boy, wait'll you have kids, boy. You'll never get out of the house.
CHARLIE: Helen's pregnant now.
KENNETH: No kidding.
CHARLIE: Oh, that's wonderful, Charlie, that's wonderful! The two young husbands look down again at their hands and ride along silently. Kenneth sneaks a quick look up at the girl standing in front of him, and then lets his attention drift down the length of the car.
KENNETH: Oh, that's wonderful, Charlie, that's wonderful! The two young husbands look down again at their hands and ride along silently. Kenneth sneaks a quick look up at the girl standing in front of him, and then lets his attention drift down the length of the car.
KENNETH: Hey, there's a guy down there, trying to pick up a girl down there.
KENNETH: Were you with us about eight years ago when I picked up that chick in front of the bus stop in Paterson, New Jersey?
CHARLIE: When was this?
KENNETH: Yeah, you were there. You were with that girl from Brooklyn. We just came from Palisades Amusement Park, and we were driving Frankie Klein's girl home, and the car broke down right in the middle of Route One.
CHARLIE: ( beginning to laugh ) Oh, yeah.
KENNETH: ( laughing ) And Frankie opened up the hood and the water cap blew right up in the And the cop came over .
CHARLIE: And the cop came over .
KENNETH: That's right, the cop. He thought Frankie shot off a gun..
KENNETH: He was going to pull us all in. Oh, Frankie, he was funny.
CHARLIE: Frankie, he was funny.
KENNETH: Oh, that was a lot of fun, those Yeah, they were.
CHARLIE: Yeah, they were.
KENNETH: Hey, this guy's making out all right. She's giving him the eye now. Charlie leans forward to see this progress.
KENNETH: ( looking out the window at the passing local station ) Where are we now, Prince Street? I bet you he picks her up before we hit Chambers Street.
CHARLIE: Boy, I'm bushed today. I was up till two o'clock last night on this thing here. I'm getting to be a nervous wreck. I snarled at Helen this morning. I think this whole night school business is getting me down.
KENNETH: I don't see how you do it.
CHARLIE: Neither do I. I thought I was through with it. The plan was for me to quit work and go to college full time and cram through in a year or so. But now we got this kid coming, and Helen's going to have to quit her job, and that sets me back where I started from. Another five years of this, summers included.
KENNETH: I couldn't do it, man, I'll tell you that. I wish I could, but I couldn't.
CHARLIE: Oh, what am I griping about? This is the life I picked out for myself. But it's a grind, boy, I tell you. They sit silently again. The train hurtles along and then suddenly slows as it approaches a stop. There is a rustle of movement among the passengers in the subway car. A few people start edging toward the doors. The Girl reading the newspaper now folds her newspaper and stands almost directly in the Young Fellow's face. They regard each other.
YOUNG FELLOW: ( to the girl ) Excuse me, can you tell me how to get to the Nassau Street exit?
GIRL: Well . well, at the top of the stairs, you'll see all the signs.
YOUNG FELLOW: Are you getting off here?
GIRL: YOUNG FELLOW Well, I'll follow you then. That'll be easier, if you don't mind.
YOUNG FELLOW: Well, I'll follow you then. That'll be easier, if you don't mind.
GIRL: No, not at all.
KENNETH: Hiya, Walter.
CHARLIE: Hiya, Walter.
KENNETH: ( poking in his desk drawer; amiably ) Walter, what time do you come in in the mornings? You're making us all look lousy, you know that? I get the feeling sometimes, you stay here Walter merely nods, doesn't bother to look up from the work. Kenneth finds a stick of gum in his drawer, unwraps it. Two more women, gray-haired and bespectacled, come into the office. There is an ad lib mumble of hellos in background. Charlie hangs up his jacket on the coat rack.
CHARLIE: Arnold in yet?
WALTER: He starts his vacation today. He's getting married Sunday, you know.
WALTER: ( a nervous, anxious man ) Well, the doctor was over last night. Brought over the X rays; brought over the allergy tests. Brought over a bill for sixty-eight dollars. I said to him: "Doctor, you're a young man, professional, highly educated, four years of college, two years of premedical training, several years of interning, of residency. If you're so smart, how can you charge me sixty-eight dollars? One thing they apparently didn't teach you in medical school. You can't get blood from a stone."
KENNETH: So what's wrong with you, Walter?
WALTER: What's wrong? I have to go to Arizona, that's what's wrong. I have asthma. When I was a kid, they called it hay fever, and you carried a bag around your neck. Asafetida. Now, they call it asthma, and you have to go to Arizona. I said to him: "Doctor, you're a professional man, four years of college, premedical school, Bellevue, several diplomas. Answer me a question. Who's going to pay for Arizona?" I said to him: "Doctor," I said, "perhaps you have the illusion I am the Aga Khan. I have a bearing about me, perhaps, that misleads you to believe I have blood ties with the Whitneys and the Rockefellers. This isn't true." Arizona. Did you ever hear of such How serious is it, Walter?
KENNETH: How serious is it, Walter?
WALTER: Serious. Nothing serious. I have hay fever, I sneeze a couple of times. The idiot told my wife I have to go to Arizona, and she wouldn't leave me alone all night. She's already packing the bags. I said: "For heaven's sakes, you listen to doctors, we'll all be dead." My son, Harold, believe me, he's going to be a doctor. That's some racket, boy. Sixty-eight dollars.
WALTER: You better get to work. Hey, Charlie, that was the bell. I think Flaherty is here this morning. We'll all be fired today. I have a feeling.
WALTER: ( without looking up from his work ) You fellows going to Arnold's party ( without looking up ) No, I'm not going, are you?
KENNETH: ( without looking up ) No, I'm not going, are you?
WALTER: No. Eddie already hooked me for four bucks for Arnold's present. This dinner is going to cost another couple of good dollars.
CHARLIE: It looks like nobody's going to Arnold's bachelor party.
WALTER: You ain't going?
CHARLIE: No, I'm not going.
WALTER: Eddie's going to be mad.
CHARLIE: I told Eddie last week I couldn't make it. I've got school. Eddie's a bachelor. It's all right for him to go rooting around town, picking up Yeah, you get married you give that kind of thing up.
WALTER: Yeah, you get married you give that kind of thing up.
KENNETH: Yeah, Charlie says Eddie has a whole bunch of chorus girls lined up for us tonight.
WALTER: No kidding.
CHARLIE: I didn't say that. I just said that if I knew Eddie, we'd probably wind up with some of his crazy girl Walter looks back down to his work again.
KENNETH: I don't know where he gets all these girls. He's a screwy looking jerk.
WALTER: Did you see that blonde who was up here looking for him last week?
KENNETH: Yeah. He told me she was a television actress. I think I saw her once on "Studio One." She was in a coal mine with some stir-crazy coalminer who was trying to strangle her with a necktie.
WALTER: I'd like to strangle her with a Now, Walter, an old married man like you, with asthma and everything.
KENNETH: Now, Walter, an old married man like you, with asthma and everything.
WALTER: I get real jealous of Eddie sometimes. He's as free as a bird. Did you see that convertible he's Yeah, he really banged it up I hear.
KENNETH: Yeah, he really banged it up I hear.
WALTER: You ought to see the old heap I've got. He walks out of here on payday, he can spend the whole works on having himself a good time. I walk out of here, and I got three kids and a wife, all of them with their palms out. I lost two bucks playing poker at my house last week. It was an economic catastrophe. My wife didn't sleep all night.
CHARLIE: He's late again.
WALTER: He'll be twenty minutes late again. If Flaherty walked in now, he'd fire him. If that ever happened to me, I think I'd kill myself. What does Eddie care? So he scrambles around for another job. Flaherty told me last week I had too many days off. I told him I was sick in bed. What do you want me to do?
WALTER: Hi, Eddie, you're early today, only twenty minutes late, what happened?
EDDIE: ( muttering through reluctant lips ) Flaherty come in yet?
KENNETH: Eddie sits down at his desk, pulls his cigarette automatically for a moment. Then he reaches over to a pile of telephone directories on the floor beside his desk, pulls up the Manhattan one, flips through the pages, finding the number he wants. He picks up the phone.
EDDIE: Mary, give me an outside line.. Hello, is this Leathercraft on Madison Avenue? . This is Mr. Watkins. I was in about a week ago. I ordered a military set and a wallet. They were supposed to be ready yesterday.. Yes, please, would you? . Yeah, a military set and a wallet..
WALTER: Is that what we bought poor Arnold?
EDDIE: ( on phone ) That's right. The following inscriptions should be on them: ( reads from the paper ) On the military set: "To Arnold: Best wishes on your marriage from Alice, Charlie, Eddie, Evelyn, Jeanette with two t's, Kenneth, Lucy, Mary, Olga, Walter, and Flaherty." Now on the wallet . Yeah, what? .. Yeah, that's right Flaherty. Now, on the wallet, the following inscription: "To my Best Friend Arnold from his Best Man Eddie." . No, to my best friend Arnold. . That's right. "From his best man Eddie" . Now, can I come in at lunch and pick them up? . A young woman comes into the office, goes to Walter's desk and drops some papers before him.
WALTER: What's this, Jeanette?
GIRL: It's from finance, don't ask me.
EDDIE: ( on phone ) Mary, give me the Hotel Westmore. Circle 7-0598.
CHARLIE: ( hands Kennie paper ) This isn't for me it's for you.
EDDIE: ( to the others ) Now who owes me on the presents? Charlie, you owe me?
CHARLIE: I gave you four bucks yesterday..
KENNETH: I owe you, Eddie. I'll pay you tomorrow, payday.
EDDIE: ( on phone ) Miss Frances Kelley, please. I think it's room 417.. The three heads around him look slowly up from their respective work, naked interest manifest on their faces.
EDDIE: ( calling to one of the women in the office ) Hey, Evelyn, you owe me four bucks.
EVELYN: ( calling back ) All right. I know.
EDDIE: ( on phone ) Hello, Frances, this is Eddie.. All right, wait a minute. Give me a chance to explain.. I know I woke you up.. All right, let me tell you. You know I'm supposed to be the best man at this fellow Arnold's wedding. So I called him up last night because I didn't know whether I was supposed to wear tuxedo or tails. Well, he didn't know either, so he said: "Come on over to my girl's house with me tonight. They're making all the arrangements for the wedding now." So I called you and left a message at the desk saying I couldn't get over till about ten o'clock.. All right! That's what I'm going to explain! . Thank you. ( holds receiver against his chest and looks at his colleagues with air of a man being tried just a little too much. Returns receiver to his ear, listens for a moment ) All right, so I had to go over to Arnold's girl's house with Arnold last night. Well, there was about thirty people there, and, man, you never saw such a crazy mess. There was this little bald-headed guy there. He's the bride's uncle. He's come all the way down from Boston with his whole family to go to the wedding. The only trouble was, he wasn't invited. Well, this crazy uncle, he grabs ahold of me, he starts shaking me by the lapels. So I said: "What do you want from me? I ain't the groom! I'm just trying to find out whether I'm supposed to wear tuxedo or tails." ( apparently this got a laugh. Eddie breaks into a smile ) Funny, huh? . Look, Frances. I have to go to work now. I'm calling you from the office. How about letting me make this up to you? I'll take you out to dinner Saturday night.. I can't make it tonight. The bachelor party's tonight.. All right, Saturday night.. It's a date.. S'help me.. I swear, right on time. Eight-thirty, okay? . Okay, we'll have a ball. Goodbye, go back to sleep.
EDDIE: What did I just tell that girl, Saturday night?
KENNETH: ( picks up phone ) Mary, give me Columbus 5-1098.. What do you mean personal calls! These are business calls! Well, stop listening to other people's conversations.. What have you got, stock in the company? Columbus
EDDIE: ( picks up phone ) Mary, give me Columbus 5-1098.. What do you mean personal calls! These are business calls! Well, stop listening to other people's conversations.. What have you got, stock in the company? Columbus
KENNETH: Listen, Eddie, I don't think I can go tonight. My father-in-law's in from Akron, Ohio, and
EDDIE: ( all sweetness ) Hello, who is this, Mrs. Stebbins? . This is Eddie, Mrs. Stebbins. I wonder if I can talk to Muriel.. Could I speak to her? . Thank The three married men each look up slowly again, naked envy on each face.
EDDIE: ( on phone ) Muriel, baby, listen, sweetie, I can't make it Saturday night.. I'm all loused up with this wedding I'm supposed to be the best man at.. We have to rehearse the ceremony. You'd think they were getting married on television.. Yes, sweetie, why don't I call you Monday. Maybe, we'll work out something before you go back to California.. All right, sweetie, good-bye. He hangs up, sits a moment, then finally removes the cigarette from his mouth, crushes it in his ash tray, and turns to the others.
EDDIE: Well, what do you say? I'm going to call Louie and make a reservation for a table for tonight. Who's coming and who isn't? Walter, you're coming, right? It won't cost you more than three-fifty for the whole meal. What do you say, Walter? You only live once.
WALTER: ( strangely sad ) That's right. You only live once.
EDDIE: Well, yes or no?
WALTER: All right, I'll come.
EDDIE: Yeah, I'll get out of the house for a change.
KENNETH: Yeah, I'll get out of the house for a change.
EDDIE: How about you, Charlie?
CHARLIE: I don't think so, Eddie.
KENNETH: Ah, come on, Charlie, you got to bust loose every now and then. We'll have a couple of drinks.
EDDIE: ( picks up phone ) Mary, give me an outside line and don't give me no trouble.. Chickering 4-5099.
WALTER: Come on, Charlie, it's a short life, believe me. Move in for CLOSEUP of Charlie, frowning. Over this, Eddie's Hello, hello, Louie? Is this Louie? . Louie, this is Eddie Watkins. I'd like to reserve a table for four for tonight.. For four .
EDDIE'S VOICE: Hello, hello, Louie? Is this Louie? . Louie, this is Eddie Watkins. I'd like to reserve a table for four for tonight.. For four .
CHARLIE: Hey, Eddie .
EDDIE'S VOICE: Count me in.
CHARLIE: Count me in.
EDDIE: ( on phone ) Louie, make that five.. Five guys . Yeah, a bachelor party .
FADE OUT: FADE IN EXTERIOR. DOWNTOWN NEW YORK CITY NIGHT FADE IN with a big loud blare on Eighth Street in Greenwich Village on a warm August night. Packed sidewalks, jammed traffic, taxis, trucks, buses, honking of horns, etc. Man-we're-going-to-have-a-ball type feeling.
FADE IN: EXTERIOR. DOWNTOWN NEW YORK CITY NIGHT FADE IN with a big loud blare on Eighth Street in Greenwich Village on a warm August night. Packed sidewalks, jammed traffic, taxis, trucks, buses, honking of horns, etc. Man-we're-going-to-have-a-ball type feeling.
KENNETH: ( finishing story ) Three hundred pounds! Isn't she kind of fat? No, man, tall! Hey, waiter! Hey, Charlie .
EDDIE: Hey, Charlie .
WALTER: ( to Charlie ) . so we were stationed right outside Paris, about eight miles, a town called Chatou .
EDDIE: . hey, Charlie .
WALTER: ( to Charlie ) . so the first night, a whole bunch of us swiped a jeep out of the motor court. We had a feller there who was a tech sergeant in the motor court. Oh, what a character he was! He used to get loaded every night on that vanilla extract.
EDDIE: Hey, Charlie .
CHARLIE: What do you want, Eddie?
EDDIE: Hey, Charlie, did I ever tell you about the time I was stationed at Buckley Field in Denver, and I picked up this girl in Lakeside Amusement Park?
WALTER: Hey, Eddie, listen to this story I'm telling Charlie. Hey, Arnold, I'm telling Charlie about the time me and that crazy tech sergeant from the motor court got loaded on vanilla extract and went to Paris . Hey, Kenneth .
KENNETH: When do the Giants come back from their road trip, does anybody know?
EDDIE: Hey, let's give out the presents now.
WALTER: Hey, Kenneth, listen to this story. I was stationed outside of Paris, about eight miles .
CHARLIE: Oh, that Paris! I was there for two days! Clubs! You had to beat the women off with clubs! .
KENNETH: Oh, that Paris! I was there for two days! Clubs! You had to beat the women off with clubs! .
CHARLIE: ( to people at another table ) What .? Oh, it's a bachelor party this guy's getting married.
EDDIE: Listen, I want to give the presents .
WALTER: Well, let me tell you what happened .
EDDIE: Hey, you know what was a great town for women, Hamburg!
KENNETH: Hamburg! Clubs! Clubs! You had to beat them off with clubs! Hey, waiter who's our waiter?
CHARLIE: Hey, Arnold, enjoying yourself?
EDDIE: The first night I was in Hamburg, two Frauleins come walking right in the barracks. So I said to the lieutenant .
WALTER: ( bellowing out ) The best fighting outfit in the whole fighting army was the fighting Hundred and Fourth Infantry Division, General Terry Allen commanding!
EDDIE: ( standing ) Well, now that we got that settled..
CHARLIE: I'm with you, Walter.
ARNOLD: We believe you, Walter.
EDDIE: I'd like to make a little speech to our guest of honor and mutual friend, Arnold Craig. Arnold, a bunch of us down the office, the girls too, all chipped in, and we got you a couple of small gifts..
WALTER: ( whispering to Kenneth ) These are the gag gifts.
EDDIE: Let's see, what's this one? Oh, yeah. Arnold, we figured Louise might be very sleepy on your wedding night, so we thought you might want something to keep you warm.
WALTER: What is it? What is it?
WALTER: It's a hot-water bottle!
KENNETH: Okay, Walter, okay.
WALTER: Hey, did you see that? Hey, he bought him a hot-water bottle for his wedding night. Hey, that's funny .
CHARLIE: Hey, Eddie, you should have bought him an ice pack for after tonight.
EDDIE: ( holding a second parcel ) Walter, take it easy.. Now, this one, Arnold, this one is something to keep you busy on cold winter ( crosses to Arnold; to the others ) This ought to be good.
WALTER: ( crosses to Arnold; to the others ) This ought to be good.
EDDIE: Look at Walter.
WALTER: Hey, these are funny. Who bought these? You buy these, Eddie? These are funny. You got a good sense of Arnold unwraps the parcel, holds out a miniature baby bottle. This is too much for Walter; how funny can you get? He clutches his sides.
WALTER: Hey, did you guys see that? Hey, did you guys see that?
CHARLIE: Come on, Walter, sit down.
WALTER: Eddie got a good sense of humor, you Boy, old Walter is crocked.
KENNETH: ( to Charlie ) Boy, old Walter is crocked.
ARNOLD: ( smiling, rising halfway in his chair ) Listen, I want to thank you. Really. I really want to thank you fellows.
EDDIE: We haven't got to the serious presents yet, Arnold. A hush falls over the assembled guests. Arnold composes his face into a solemn expression and looks down at the cluttered table.
EDDIE: ( solemnly ) Well, in all seriousness, Arnold, seriously, I don't know why you picked me to be your best man, but I am deeply honored. I guess it's because we're both Dodger fans, and I'm going to miss you at next Tuesday's night game when the Pittsburgh Pirates invade Ebbets Field. We always had a lot of fun together, and, seriously, Arnold, in all seriousness, good luck on your wedding, but see if you can't get out of the house occasionally, see a night game or even a Sunday doubleheader with your old buddy, This touching address has brought a note of sadness to the gathering. Indeed, there are tears in Walter's and Arnold's ( handing Arnold two neatly wrapped packages ) Well, anyway, in all seriousness, here are a couple of presents from all of us in the office and good Arnold takes the presents, stands, head bowed. Eddie sits and all faces turn to Arnold.
EDDIE: ( handing Arnold two neatly wrapped packages ) Well, anyway, in all seriousness, here are a couple of presents from all of us in the office and good Arnold takes the presents, stands, head bowed. Eddie sits and all faces turn to Arnold.
ARNOLD: Well, I just want to thank you fellows. I don't know what to say. I just want to thank you.
KENNETH: Open the presents, Arnold.
ARNOLD: I will. I just want to say, Eddie, that when the Pirates invade Ebbets Field next Tuesday night, I'm going to be sitting right there in Section 37 there right with you.
EDDIE: You'll be on your honeymoon next Tuesday, Arnold. This interesting information gives Arnold pause.
ARNOLD: Gee, that's right.
CHARLIE: ( smiling ) Arnold, you're getting married Sunday, did you forget?
WALTER: Look at him blush.
ARNOLD: ( frowning fuzzily ) No, I didn't forget. It's just that . Gee, that's right. Sunday. What's today, Thursday? All day!
ARNOLD: Boy, it's here, isn't it? I guess I've been running around so much the last couple of weeks, I guess the wedding snuck up on me.
KENNETH: I think Arnold's having a little buck fever. Does anyone know what our waiter looks like?
EDDIE: ( to Kenneth ) You know who didn't want to chip in for Arnold's presents? .
CHARLIE: Arnold'll be all right. Have a drink, I had my basic training in Camp Croft, South Carolina, near Spartanburg.
WALTER: I had my basic training in Camp Croft, South Carolina, near Spartanburg.
EDDIE: I was at Maxwell Field, what a Walter, what ever happened when you and that tech sergeant from the motor pool got loaded on vanilla What tech sergeant?
CHARLIE: Walter, what ever happened when you and that tech sergeant from the motor pool got loaded on vanilla What tech sergeant?
WALTER: What tech sergeant?
CHARLIE: Walter, you're crocked. Open up the presents see what you Hey, are you our waiter? Bring us some ice. I got him I got our It was sure nice of you fellows.
KENNETH: Hey, are you our waiter? Bring us some ice. I got him I got our It was sure nice of you fellows.
ARNOLD: It was sure nice of you fellows.
EDDIE: Hey, man, we're having a ball!
ARNOLD: De-Witt C-l-i-n-t-o-n Oh, Cli-inton! Ever to theeeee!
ARNOLD: ( singing ) Fairest of high schools .
EDDIE: How did he ever get on this alma mater kick?
ARNOLD: ( singing ) . Give her three times three Oh, fellows . Rah! Rah! Rah!
ARNOLD: Long may we cherish thee Faithful we'll be. Clinton, oh, Clinton For you and me . Da-da-da-da-da . Crash through that line of blue And send the backs around the end.
EDDIE: There he goes with those fullbacks Rah! Rah! Rah!
ARNOLD: Rah! Rah! Rah!
KENNETH: Where we going? Eddie's place to see movies?
ARNOLD: What movies?
EDDIE: Boy, just wait till you see these movies! Hey, Charlie, hey Charlie .
CHARLIE: ( indicating the young woman ) Who's your beautiful friend, Charlie?
EDDIE: ( indicating the young woman ) Who's your beautiful friend, Charlie?
CHARLIE: ( to the girl ) Excuse me. My friend down there wants to know who you are.
THE EXISTENTIALIST: ( with a Mona Lisa smile ) Where are you all from, out-of-town?
CHARLIE: ( turning to the others ) Isn't that right, fellers? We're from Indiana, right?
EDDIE: Indiana! Indiana, man! Kenneth and Arnold, to whom this incident is already unbearably funny, have turned away and are clutching their sides, trying to suppress a fit of giggles.
CHARLIE: ( to The Existentialist ) We're from the Hoosier State, ma'am.
WALTER: Terre Haute! We're from Terre Haute!
CHARLIE: ( to The Existentialist ) We're from Terre Haute, and we've come to the big city looking for a good time, and we just don't know what to do with ourselves, ma'am.
EDDIE: ( to Walter ) Look at that Charlie operate.
THE EXISTENTIALIST: Must be a convention in town.
CHARLIE: We've just come off the ranch there, honey, and we're just raring. Is that right, men? Are we raring?
EDDIE: We're raring, boy, we're raring!
KENNETH: ( beside himself with laughter ) Hey, Charlie, cut it out, will you?
CHARLIE: ( chugging along behind The Existentialist ) We're down here in Greenwich Village looking for some wild bohemians. Do you happen to know any wild All right, fellows, enough's enough, She steps up to the sidewalk on the west side of Greenwich Avenue and hurries along down Tenth Street to a little house about four doors down, the five carousers on her heels like a pack of puppies.
THE EXISTENTIALIST: All right, fellows, enough's enough, She steps up to the sidewalk on the west side of Greenwich Avenue and hurries along down Tenth Street to a little house about four doors down, the five carousers on her heels like a pack of puppies.
CHARLIE: ( hurrying along after The Existentialist ) I'm something of a poet myself, ma'am. Many's the long night in the bunkhouse where I sat by myself and wrote by the flickering light of a kerosene lamp. Could I read you some of my poems, ma'am? I know they ain't much, but they're from the heart, ma'am. The Existentialist pauses in her hurried walk down Tenth Street to examine Charlie with some interest.
THE EXISTENTIALIST: You have a sense of humor, don't you?
EDDIE: ( to Charlie ) You're going great, man, don't stop The Existentialist goes up the two little steps to the front door of the house and rings the bell.
EDDIE: ( to The Existentialist ) Where are you going, honey? The Existentialist waits composed and patient for someone to answer her ring. Charlie has wandered back to Arnold and Kenneth, and the three of them are now suffused with laughter. Kenneth has been laughing so much, tears are coming out of his eyes. He walks around in little circles clutching his sides. Several passersby hurry by, noting the strange little group on the sidewalk.
EDDIE: ( to The Existentialist ) What's going on in there, honey?
THE EXISTENTIALIST: ( patiently bored ) There's a party going on. I'm not sure I'm invited myself, so I can't really invite you.
EDDIE: Sure you can.
THE HOSTESS: How nice to see you, darling. Who are your friends?
THE EXISTENTIALIST: I haven't the vaguest idea. I was ambushed crossing Greenwich Avenue by a tribe of the Terre Haute Go away, you men. Go back to the Biltmore Hotel and put on your red I always thought you city people were more hospitable to us poor farm boys.
THE HOSTESS: ( she waves a vague hand in a sort of shooing motion at the five men on the sidewalk ) Go away, you men. Go back to the Biltmore Hotel and put on your red I always thought you city people were more hospitable to us poor farm boys.
EDDIE: I always thought you city people were more hospitable to us poor farm boys.
CHARLIE: ( to The Existentialist, smiling amiably ) I'm sorry, miss. A friend of ours is getting married here, and we're just horsing around.
THE EXISTENTIALIST: Why don't you come back after you get rid of your friends.
EDDIE: He'll be back!
EDDIE: ( to Charlie ) Man, she likes you, man!
THE HOSTESS: Now, you boys go away.
EDDIE: Well, what do you say, men, are we going to this party, or aren't we?
CHARLIE: ( laughing ) Come on, Eddie. I thought you had some movies you want to show us.
EDDIE: What do you want to see movies for? You got the real thing right here.
CHARLIE: ( laughing ) Eddie, we're married men here.
EDDIE: Come on, let's crash this party. I've been to these Greenwich Village parties. Man, they're wild.
KENNETH: Come on, Eddie, let's go up to your place, see these movies.
EDDIE: ( coming reluctantly back to the others, says to Charlie ) Man, you were going strong with that girl. You could have scored. She's just waiting for you. Go in after Come on, Eddie. Let's go see the ( to the others ) All right, I live about three blocks down. You guys want to see movies, all right, let's go see movies.
KENNETH: Come on, Eddie. Let's go see the All right, I live about three blocks down. You guys want to see movies, all right, let's go see movies.
EDDIE: ( to the others ) All right, I live about three blocks down. You guys want to see movies, all right, let's go see movies.
ARNOLD: . we're moving in with her mother and father. I don't know if that's such a good idea. What do you think? We haven't got an apartment yet, and we figure we'll live a year with her folks, save on the rent, see? Kenneth comes back from the kitchen with three open bottles of beer.
KENNETH: Anybody want a bottle of beer?
ARNOLD: ( to Eddie ) She's a widow, and that bothers me a little. I don't know why. She's two years older than me. I don't know if you know that. Her husband got killed in Korea. She's a cousin of mine, you ( moving into the living room ) Who wants a bottle of beer?
KENNETH: ( moving into the living room ) Who wants a bottle of beer?
CHARLIE: I'll take a bottle.
WALTER: Yeah, give me one.
ARNOLD: A third cousin, something like that. It's not good for cousins to marry, is it? What do you think of her? I know she's not terribly pretty, but I mean .
EDDIE: ( muttering imprecations at the projector ) Arnold, leave me alone a minute, will you?
ARNOLD: ( turns to the others in living room, plants a huge smile on his face ) Well, I'm getting married Sunday.
KENNETH: Having fun, Walter?
WALTER: Fun. A bunch of grown men sitting around waiting to look at college boy pictures.
ARNOLD: I swear, I never thought two months ago I was ever going to get married. I still don't know how it happened..
EDDIE: Hey, somebody turn off the lights. Walter is promptly up to turn off the lights.
CHARLIE: Hey, you know, you've got a nice place here. The room is abruptly flooded in darkness. A beam of light shoots out from the projector. It seems pointed at the window. Arnold stands up directly in the shaft of light.
ARNOLD: I was just taking her out. I didn't know it was so serious.
EDDIE: Arnold, get out of the way, will Oh, sure.
ARNOLD: Oh, sure.
ARNOLD: . We're sitting in the car, so she says: "Well, Arnold, we've been going together six months now. I think it's time we decided whether we were being serious."
WALTER: Hey, Eddie, you got it on the window.
ARNOLD: I didn't know it was so serious. I didn't even know we were going together. I just took her out every now and then.
CHARLIE: Arnold, you're funny.
EDDIE: Turn on the lights again, will you, What's the matter?
WALTER: What's the matter?
EDDIE: I forgot to loop it over this loop Walter crosses to light switch. The room is flooded in light Oh, for crying out loud.
CHARLIE: Oh, for crying out loud.
ARNOLD: ( small panic ) I can't even remember what she looks like! I just saw her this afternoon!
KENNETH: Arnold, have a bottle of beer. It's not so terrible.
ARNOLD: Boy, I tell you. It's for the rest of your life when you get married. This is a big decision to make.
WALTER: Does anybody seriously want to see these movies? Eddie is furiously winding and unwinding spools. CAMERA HAS DOLLIED AROUND so that we are looking back up the living room toward the projector and the men.
ARNOLD: I could be making a serious mistake.
EDDIE: Arnold, you're in the way again. Come on now. All right, put off the The room is flooded in darkness again. Walter hurries to a chair. The square of light is reasonably focused, just an edge trailing off onto the drapes of the window. Numbers flicker quickly on on the screen. The rest of the scene we see looking into the whitened faces of the five men at their various posts. Arnold crosses, stands back of Walter.
KENNETH: Here we go.
EDDIE: Hey, Arnold, if this is the one I think it is, there's one part here I want you to see.
WALTER: ( a picture of determined boredom, but putting on his glasses ) This is for kids.
CHARLIE: Says he putting on his glasses.
KENNETH: "The Baseball Game." That's a nice title, don't you think?
EDDIE: This is the one, Arnold. There's a guy in here who looks just like Hey, she's not bad. Usually, the girls in these things look like A bunch of grown men .
KENNETH: Hey, she's not bad. Usually, the girls in these things look like A bunch of grown men .
WALTER: ( his eyes glued to the screen ) A bunch of grown men .
EDDIE: I got these pictures off my dentist. I don't know where be got them. There you are, Arnold, that's you.
CHARLIE: Yeah, it does look like Arnold.
EDDIE: Doesn't that look like Arnold?
KENNETH: Who's looking at the guy?
CHARLIE: Arnold, you've got a great career ahead of you.
KENNETH: That girl looks like the girl Charlie picked up just before.
EDDIE: Probably is.
WALTER: That fellow there is not a bad actor.
CHARLIE: Actor. You could play that part pretty easy yourself.
KENNETH: I think the Daily News gave this one four stars.
EDDIE: I'd like to see this in Three-D.
WALTER: Well, I'll just watch one of them. Then, I think I'll just go home.
HELEN: Hiya, Julie. I was beginning to think you weren't coming.
JULIE: ( coming in ) I was at my mother's house. Did they call you? They said they were going to call you.
HELEN: Yeah, your mother was very sweet.
JULIE: You should have seen my father. I said, "Pa, you have another grandchild coming." So he said, "Who?" So I said, "Charlie." So he said, "That little Helen?" So I said, "If it isn't that little Helen, Charlie better leave town." So out came the beer. Well, they've been after Charlie to have a baby for a long time now. I said, "Pa, leave him alone. Let him get established before he saddles himself with a baby." Anyway, I want you to know joy reigns supreme in your in-laws' How's Charlie taking it?
HELEN: ( following her into the kitchen ) Listen, let me make you a cup of tea or something.
JULIE: No, no, I've been drinking beer for the last two hours, celebrating your Soda, anything like that?
HELEN: Soda, anything like that?
JULIE: No, honey, you go on with your wash. Is that what you're doing? When I had my first baby, Mike was ashamed to be seen on the streets with me. Well, listen, he was interning at the time. We needed a baby like a hole in the head. That's why he's a general practitioner now, because of that baby. He was studying to be a surgeon. He absolutely refused to admit I was pregnant. Even in my ninth month, and I was as big as a house. He used to walk ten paces in front of me in the street like he didn't know who that woman with the belly was. Where is Charlie anyway?
HELEN: I told you he
JULIE: Oh, yeah. I wouldn't let my Mike go on a bachelor party.
HELEN: ( turning back to her wash ) What are they going to do, get a little drunk?
JULIE: Are you kidding? What do you think these bachelor parties are for, bachelors? This is for the married men. It's a good excuse to get drunk and find some girls.
HELEN: Can you picture Charlie getting drunk and picking up a girl? Charlie's old sobersides. You should have seen what I went through to get him to make a pass at me. He's so sweet. Nobody knows how really sweet he is, he's so quiet all the time. My brother died in September, he used to stay up with me till three, four o'clock every night. I used to cry all night, and he used to sit on the bed and talk with me. I used to look at him talking there, and I used to think: "What would I do without this sweet man here? I'd go crazy." You know, you like to be a little cynical sometimes, Julie.
JULIE: Wait'll you've been married eleven You like to talk about all the affairs everybody's husband is having. Do you know actually one woman whose husband is actually playing around?
HELEN: You like to talk about all the affairs everybody's husband is having. Do you know actually one woman whose husband is actually playing around?
JULIE: Wait'll you've been married eleven Helen, aware that she has perhaps touched on a sensitive subject, frowns and turns back to her washing. A quick, thick silence dips into the room.
JULIE: ( looking down ) Wait'll Charlie gets to be forty-two. My Mike's having an affair right now with one of his patients right now. We don't talk about it don't you, either, not even to Charlie. But Mike knows I know about it. I even know the patient. A married woman with a hyperthyroid problem. My Mike's a good doctor with a pretty good practice. The kids are crazy about him. But every now and then he has to go out and get involved with a woman. She looks down at her hands in her lap.
JULIE: Listen, I will take a cup of tea if you've got one. She stands, opens the pantry, looks around among the cans and packages for a box of tea bags.
HELEN: ( quite shocked ) You're kidding, aren't you?
JULIE: ( finds the box of tea bags ) Would I kid about something like She puts the box of tea bags an the workshelf, unhooks a saucepan hanging over the stove, turns to the sink and fills it with water. Helen regards her, not quite knowing what to say. Julie sets the saucepan going on the stove, stares at I don't know why I told you. Don't tell anybody, not even Charlie. I don't want the family to know. But this woman isn't the first one. I know that much. About three years ago, the doorbell rings. I open the door. There's a man there. He says: "Tell your husband to stay away from my sister." How would you like to open the door and have somebody say that to you? I cried for two weeks. I don't know what to do about it, Helen. Should I bring it out in the open with Mike or should I just keep my mouth shut like the other time? Because he's not going to leave me. Even if he doesn't care about me, he has his kids to think about. We married too young. That was our big mistake. We married too young. Her face, her whole body suddenly tightens to forestall any possibility of breaking into tears, and she sits down abruptly on the kitchen stool, her eyes clenched tight and her face rigidly impassive. Helen remains nervously silent.
JULIE: I don't know why I told you. Don't tell anybody, not even Charlie. I don't want the family to know. But this woman isn't the first one. I know that much. About three years ago, the doorbell rings. I open the door. There's a man there. He says: "Tell your husband to stay away from my sister." How would you like to open the door and have somebody say that to you? I cried for two weeks. I don't know what to do about it, Helen. Should I bring it out in the open with Mike or should I just keep my mouth shut like the other time? Because he's not going to leave me. Even if he doesn't care about me, he has his kids to think about. We married too young. That was our big mistake. We married too young. Her face, her whole body suddenly tightens to forestall any possibility of breaking into tears, and she sits down abruptly on the kitchen stool, her eyes clenched tight and her face rigidly impassive. Helen remains nervously silent.
JULIE: ( her voice rising just a little from the suppressed emotion within her ) We should have waited till he finished his internship. What kind of married life is that? Twenty-two dollars a month he was earning. Every other day, he had to sleep in the hospital. The first two years of our marriage, we didn't even see each other. And then I'm pregnant. He had to quit, what do you think? He wanted to be a surgeon, he wound up being a G.P. From that day he hated me. I had two other children by him, but he hated me. He told me in just so many words. Why do you think I kept telling you, Helen, why do you think I kept telling you: "Don't have a baby till Charlie finds ( suddenly cries out ) It hurts! Even after eleven years, it hurts!
HELEN: Are you all right, Julie?
JULIE: ( muttering ) I'm all right. I'm all right.
WALTER: Is that the last one?
EDDIE: A thick silence fills the room. There is a kind of sodden feeling to this scene. After a long moment, Walter's voice
WALTER: Ah, you've seen one, you've seen them all.
KENNETH: Yeah, they're all alike.
CHARLIE: I don't know I think the first one was all right.
WALTER: Yeah, I was so bored by the rest of them. I nearly fell asleep during the last one.
KENNETH: You in the habit of sleeping with your eyes open? We look down on the room now, at all five of the men, Eddie rewinding the last reel, the little motor of the projector humming. The others loll about, their legs dangling over the armrests of the soft chairs and sofas. There is a heavy, dense mood that no one seems willing to break.
CHARLIE: What time's it about, anybody know?
ARNOLD: ( glancing at his watch ) I got a quarter to nine.
EDDIE: No, it's later than that, about a quarter after. Again the silence falls upon the five men. Only the humming little motor interrupts the thick silence. Nobody moves.
WALTER: ( after a moment ) Ah, you see one, you've seen them Again the silence. Charlie stretches over for his bottle of beer on the floor beside his chair. He pours what's left of the bottle into the glass standing beside it. Otherwise nobody moves.
WALTER: ( after a moment ) So that's the last one you've got to show us, Eddie?
EDDIE: Yeah. You want to run them backwards?
KENNETH: I wonder where they get the girls to make these movies?
WALTER: Might as well go home, I guess.
KENNETH: The idea doesn't seem to propel anybody to any decisive movement. Walter shifts his position on the sofa, stretches out his legs, regards his shoes with a sudden sadness.
WALTER: ( after a moment ) Life is short.
EDDIE: ( hunched over the projector, dismantling it ) You guys feel like going down to have a drink for Arnold?
WALTER: Yeah! What do you say? One last drink for Arnold!
CHARLIE: Okay with me.
KENNETH: ( unwinding himself from his slouched position on a chair ) You can say what you want to about these pictures they're really pretty bad but they get you.
ARNOLD: Don't you think we ought to clean up the place?
EDDIE: No, I got a woman comes in.
WALTER: ( grabbing up his jacket ) I almost fell asleep during the last one. ( he looks at the others ) Well, what do you say, huh? Let's go! One last drink! Ad libs on exit.
JULIE: . He's a boy, my Mike. Till the day he dies, he'll never be more than fifteen. Perpetual adolescence, that's the curse of the professional man. He spends his whole youth trying to be a doctor, a lawyer, an accountant. Then he spends the rest of his life looking for the fun he should have had when he was a boy.
HELEN: Oh, I know. Charlie and I hardly even see each other.
JULIE: It's very hard on the wife, Helen. These are the years when you should be building your marriage. Instead, you grow away from each other. I've seen it happen with my friends. In the end, they have nice homes in New Rochelle, and a maid, and their maids are happier than they are. But sometimes it does work. It can be done, Helen. Encourage Charlie to stay with his school because.
HELEN: Oh, I will, Julie .
JULIE: . he's an ambitious boy .
HELEN: . oh, it's not just he's ambitious .
JULIE: . and if he doesn't fulfill himself, he'll resent you and your baby the rest of his life.
HELEN: Oh, I don't want him to quit. He loves accounting, Julie. I see him sometimes, sitting over his homework. He's got his ledgers out, and he's adding up columns of figures as long as his arm. And he's chuckling. You'd think he was reading the comics. He has a book there, Business Law. How he can read it I don't know. But I'll be watching television or something, and he'll come over, and he'll start telling me about some fine legal point. I don't know what he's talking about, but it's enough for me to see how excited it makes him. He loves it, Julie. You can't take something like that away from him. It's just it's just I feel we're not really close any more. I mean, he comes home from school, lots of times I'm asleep already. And, when I do see him, he seems all involved with himself. He looks at me sometimes as if I were a stranger to him, and I feel sometimes I am. I'm afraid of that, Julie.
JULIE: Then get rid of the baby.
JULIE: If I had it to do again, believe me, that's what I would do.
HELEN: ( slowly becoming aware of the depth of what they are talking about ) You don't mean that, Julie.
JULIE: Yes, I do. My children are the only things in my life now, but I would rather have a husband.
HELEN: I wouldn't even think about it.
JULIE: That's what I said, too.
HELEN: Let's not even think about it. If I even mentioned it, he'd he'd hit me, I think.
JULIE: All right.
HELEN: I want this baby, Julie. I've wanted this baby for a long time. It's the only thing I've ever asked of Charlie. If I mentioned that to him I don't know what he'd do. Again, they sink into silence. Then in the thick silence, the telephone rings. The two young women are so deep within their thoughts that neither of them moves. It rings again, and Helen slides off the couch and goes to the phone. It rings again. She picks it up.
HELEN: ( on phone ) Hello.. Hello, Charlie, where are you calling from? . You sound like you're having a nice time.. Oh, you're having a ball, huh? . Well, what time do you think you'll be coming home?
CHARLIE: ( on phone ) Well, that's what I wanted to call you about, honey. I think a couple of the guys are cutting out now. I think Kennie's going home. But I was wondering if you wanted me home for any special reason.
HELEN: ( on phone ) Just a minute, Charlie..
HELEN: ( to Julie ) Excuse me a minute, Julie. It's She goes into the kitchen. A little embarrassed, she closes the kitchen door.
HELEN: ( on phone ) Charlie? . ( sits ) Charlie, come on home now.. No, I feel all right. I just miss you. Julie's here, and we were talking about you, and I just miss you.. Ah, come on.. ( frowns a little ) Well, no, if you're having such a good time, stay out and enjoy yourself.. No, Charlie, I don't want you to come home if you're having a good time.. I'm not lonely. Julie's here. We're talking. I was washing some things.. I know, that's what I told you this morning. You've finally got a night off for yourself. I don't want you to feel guilty about it.. Charlie, do you love me? . You sound angry.. No, come home any time you want.. ( she wets her lips nervously ) Charlie . ( she lets her head sink down onto the palm of her free hand ) Charlie, there's no girls at this party, are there? . I'm not checking up on you, Charlie. I just miss you, that's all.. All right, Charlie, please, I don't want to argue with you. Julie's in the living room. . All right, have a good time, stay out as long as you want.. All right, Charlie, good- She slowly hangs up the receiver, sits slumped and abject.
CHARLIE: The party breaking up?
KENNETH: ( pushing into the men's room ) I don't know. I'm going home. You going home?
CHARLIE: Yeah, I think so.
CHARLIE: ( frowning ) You love your wife, Kennie?
KENNETH'S VOICE: ( off ) Well, I've been married six years. I've got two kids that keep me awake all night long. Every Sunday, we go out driving in Long Island looking for a house that's going to take one, probably two mortgages. I better love my wife.
CHARLIE: I don't feel like going home. Are you going? Hang around, Kennie. It's only about nine thirty, ten.
KENNETH: It's after ten. It's about ten after Kenneth rips off a paper towel. The only noise for a moment is the soft crumpling of paper as Kenneth dries his hands.
KENNETH: The party's getting a little wild in there anyway. Eddie and Walter got poor Arnold nailed in there, they're trying to talk him into getting a girl. This party's going to wind up in a joint, let me tell you. This is a good time to blow.
CHARLIE: ( frowning ) Yeah.. I should have gone to class tonight. I'm paying twenty bucks a credit. The least I can do is go to He breaks off abruptly, turning away with a sudden frown.
CHARLIE: I take one night off, I can't even enjoy myself. Did you know Eddie went back to Europe?
KENNETH: No, I didn't know that.
CHARLIE: He was telling me he lived in Paris for three months. I'd like to do He ambles around the men's room, studying himself with unseeing eyes in the little mirror, poking the trash can into which Kenneth is now dropping his wadded paper towel. He suddenly turns to Kenneth, stares at him. Kenneth looks at him in mirror.
KENNETH: What's the matter?
CHARLIE: I'm going to quit. What am I killing myself for?
KENNETH: Quit what?
CHARLIE: Quit night school. Tonight was the first laughs I've had in years. I can't remember the last time I had so much fun. Look what I'm missing. I'm making a pretty good living. I can support a wife and baby on what I make. I'm going to quit! I mean it. I'm going to quit. Boy, what a time to have a baby.
KENNETH: You don't have to quit school because you're having a baby, Charlie. There are lots of guys go to night school with two, three You ought to meet some of these guys. They're just grinding their lives away. It's an obsession with some of these guys. I mean, what's the point? So I'll go five more years to night school. So I'll get my degree. So I'll get a job as a junior accountant for three years at seventy-five bucks a week. I'm making better than that now. And then it just starts. The CPA exams. By the time I'm fifty, I can start living. At this point, I get a heart attack and an ulcer, and they bury me in the ground, and they say: "That was Charlie Samson, the man who didn't see a movie in fifty years." Why go through all that? I'll quit. I feel so mad right now, you better keep an eye on me, Kennie, because I'm going to wind up punching The door opens. Man enters to clean a spot off his tie.
CHARLIE: You ought to meet some of these guys. They're just grinding their lives away. It's an obsession with some of these guys. I mean, what's the point? So I'll go five more years to night school. So I'll get my degree. So I'll get a job as a junior accountant for three years at seventy-five bucks a week. I'm making better than that now. And then it just starts. The CPA exams. By the time I'm fifty, I can start living. At this point, I get a heart attack and an ulcer, and they bury me in the ground, and they say: "That was Charlie Samson, the man who didn't see a movie in fifty years." Why go through all that? I'll quit. I feel so mad right now, you better keep an eye on me, Kennie, because I'm going to wind up punching The door opens. Man enters to clean a spot off his tie.
KENNETH: Come on, let's go home.
CHARLIE: What do I want to go home for?
KENNETH: You're in a lousy mood.
KENNETH: ( after a moment ) Charlie, go home. I can see you're going to get fried tonight and wind up picking up a tramp and you're going to wake up in the morning feeling like two-bits.
CHARLIE: It'd be a profit.
KENNETH: Charlie, about five years ago, I went without a job for seven months. Alice was carrying our first baby. We were living on money I borrowed from my brother. I don't know if you remember me in those days, but it was rough. I used to go out every night, put a load on, and make a pass at any girl who looked at me. And I mean any. Big, tall, short, fat, anything. Well, one night I picked up some tomato somewheres, and we were sitting in a bar or somewheres, and I kept calling her Alice all night. So she says to me: "My name ain't Alice. Who's Alice?" So I said: "Alice is my wife," and I got up and I went home.
CHARLIE: What does that mean?
KENNETH: I don't know. I had a point when I started telling that story.
CHARLIE: I'm not looking for another woman.
KENNETH: Yes, you are, Charlie. You may not know it, but you are. So go on home, Charlie, before you get any drunker than you are. Charlie, you start messing with other women, something goes. It'll kill your marriage. It'll kill your wife. It'll just kill her. What my wife went through well, I don't even want to remember it. It's never the same with your wife again, Charlie.
CHARLIE: I'm not looking for any woman.
KENNETH: I think what I was trying to say was you stick with your night school. Some guys have to make peace with themselves that they're never going to amount to too much. A guy like me. Once I made that peace with myself, I found out it doesn't really matter what you amount to. I got a nice wife and two children I complain about all the time, but if anything ever happened to either one of them, I think I'd die. But you don't have to make that kind of peace, and you'd be crazy to settle for less than what you want. You want something, Charlie. I think that's You're a little drunk now, and you're fed up to the teeth. Everybody gets fed up, Charlie. You stick with it. You're going to be all You're a nice guy, Kennie.
CHARLIE: ( touched ) You're a nice guy, Kennie.
KENNETH: Sure. You're a nice guy too.
YOUNG MAN: Watch it will you, Mac?
CHARLIE: Wait a minute.. What are you, a wise guy? He is all set to bust the Young Man one in the nose, but Kenneth takes him by the arm.
KENNETH: Come on, Charlie, let's go home. Charlie allows himself to be led to the door.
CHARLIE: I'm just about drunk enough right now to bust somebody right in the Kenneth reaches for the knob of the door, opens it, and the two men go out. They find themselves in the crowded, noisy bar. A jagged kind of intensity to the atmosphere as if some of the men at the bar might be gangsters. Booths filled with men and women and some mixed-up types. Kenneth and Charlie make their way through the bodies down to one of the booths where Eddie and Arnold are sitting and Walter is standing, heavily drunk. Eddie is expostulating to Walter:
EDDIE: ( to Walter ) . Come on, will you? Look Walter, it's just the shank of the evening! What's so special in your home? You got a floor show every night? Who are you married to, Jayne Mansfield? Come on, it's not even half past Walter sits heavily down.
KENNETH: ( smiling amiably ) We got to get up tomorrow, go to work, Eddie.
EDDIE: We're just starting! We got to get Arnold a girl yet!
ARNOLD: Eddie, please .
EDDIE: That's the whole point to a bachelor party! You got to get the guy a girl!
ARNOLD: Look, fellows, it's been a nice clean party .
KENNETH: Well, Arnold, since I'm not going to see you again before the wedding, congratulations and best wishes in the coming future to both you and the bride.
ARNOLD: Thanks a lot, Kennie..
EDDIE: You're not going, are you, Charlie? We're just starting! We got to get Arnold a girl yet!
ARNOLD: ( to Kenneth ) I want to thank you for the presents, Kennie..
CHARLIE: .No, I'll stick around another hour or so..
EDDIE: . That's my boy..
ARNOLD: ( to Kenneth, who is looking at Charlie ) . Honestly, I never expected any ( to Charlie ) . Aren't you coming home? .
KENNETH: ( to Charlie ) . Aren't you coming home? .
CHARLIE: . What for? Sit around talking to my sister Julie? .
ARNOLD: ( standing ) . I want to thank all you fellows .
EDDIE: All right, stop thanking them, Arnold. They just gave you a party, they didn't elect you President.
ARNOLD: . This has been one of the nicest nights of my life..
CHARLIE: Let's go someplace . let's go to a nightclub.
EDDIE: That's great with me.
CHARLIE: Come on, Ken.
ARNOLD: Thanks a lot.
KENNETH: . Well, listen, fellows, I'm cutting out.. Good night, Walter, . You coming, Charlie? .
CHARLIE: . No, I'll kill another hour.. Come on, Kennie..
KENNETH: No, you go ahead. I'll see you in the morning, Charlie.
CHARLIE: Okay, I'll see you.
ARNOLD: So what do you think of my girl, Eddie? You met her. Be honest with me. Tell me the truth. I had the feeling you didn't like her.
EDDIE: Come on, come on, Arnold. What do you want from me. Arnold turns to Charlie.
ARNOLD: Listen, Charlie, I'd like to ask you a little advice. I mean, you're a married man. This girl, I'm supposed to marry, she's all right, but I'm not really attracted to her, you know what I mean? That's important, isn't it? I kissed her a couple of times, but I . I don't know why I'm getting married, Charlie.
CHARLIE: What did you say, Arnold?
ARNOLD: I said, I don't know why I'm getting married. I did pretty good for thirty-two years without getting married. I get along fine at home. My mother's a good cook. I have a nice life. What do I want to break it all up for?
CHARLIE: Well, Arnold, everybody feels that way before they get married.
ARNOLD: Yeah? Did I ever show you a picture of my girl?
CHARLIE: No, you didn't, Arnold.
ARNOLD: Do you want to see a picture?
CHARLIE: Arnold clumsily hauls out his wallet and extracts a picture. He gives it to Charlie who twists at an angle in order to get some light on it.
ARNOLD: I want you to give me your honest impression, Charlie. She isn't much, is she?
CHARLIE: I can't see much in this light, but she looks like a nice pretty girl.
ARNOLD: Well, I wouldn't say that. We were matched up, you know. The families kind of agreed on it. I was brought over to her by my mother and father. That's how I met her. She's some kind of tenth cousin. She's all right. She's quiet. I kissed her a couple of times. She just sat there and I kissed her. I think she expected more. She even asked me that. She said to me: "Are you afraid of me?" I really don't go out with women much. You know. Don't tell nobody this, Charlie, but you aren't going to believe this, but I never . I mean, you wouldn't believe that a guy of my age, I never . Don't tell anybody I ever told you this, but I never I mean, Charlie, she's a widow. She's been married already she's going to expect a lot and I never What do you think I ought to do?
CHARLIE: What do you mean, Arnold?
ARNOLD: I mean, you think I ought to marry Well, Arnold, even if I knew the girl, I wouldn't answer that question. I may not like her, but she may be fine for you.
CHARLIE: Well, Arnold, even if I knew the girl, I wouldn't answer that question. I may not like her, but she may be fine for you.
ARNOLD: Because I'm thinking of calling the whole thing off.
CHARLIE: It's kind of late for that, isn't I'm scared stiff, Charlie.
ARNOLD: I'm scared stiff, Charlie.
CHARLIE: What are you scared about?
ARNOLD: I'm not much of a talker, and she's one of those quiet ones. What are you supposed to do with your wife? I mean, most of the time.
CHARLIE: ( has to think ) Most of the time, Arnold, you don't even see her. You're away working. You come home, she fixes you supper. Then one of you washes the dishes. Then if you're not tired, you can go to the movies or visit somebody. Or you watch teevee.
ARNOLD: I do that now with my mother. This gives Charlie pause.
CHARLIE: ( scowling ) I don't know what there is to marriage. I suppose it's to have So what do you think I ought to do? You think I ought to go through with this marriage?
ARNOLD: So what do you think I ought to do? You think I ought to go through with this marriage?
CHARLIE: ( angry ) Arnold, I can't answer that! He stands abruptly.
EDDIE: I think we've got one for you, One what?
ARNOLD: One what?
ARNOLD: Ah, come on, Eddie.
EDDIE: She ain't bad.
CHARLIE: ( calling from a few paces down ) What's the matter?
EDDIE: We've got a live one.
ARNOLD: ( starting to walk ) Come on, let's go.
EDDIE: Arnold, for Pete's sake.
CHARLIE: Ah, leave him alone! He doesn't want Come on. We've been walking around all night here are you a man, or ain't you? Arnold frowns.
EDDIE: Come on. We've been walking around all night here are you a man, or ain't you? Arnold frowns.
ARNOLD: All right, all right.
THE WOMAN: ( not looking up ) I don't know who you fellows think I am, but you fellows have the wrong idea about me.
EDDIE: Yeah, I know. Arnold, see that bar down the corner. That's where we'll I'm afraid you fellows have the wrong idea about me.
THE WOMAN: I'm afraid you fellows have the wrong idea about me.
ARNOLD: She says we have the wrong idea.
CHARLIE: Ah, leave him alone.
THE WOMAN: You fellows are working under a Eddie and Walter have already started down the street to the bar.
EDDIE: We'll be in the bar, Arnold.
CHARLIE: You all right, Arnold?
ARNOLD: Yeah, I'm all right, it's just .
THE WOMAN: Look, I'm just sitting here, fellows. Did I say anything? I was just sitting here.
ARNOLD: You want to come with me, Charlie?
CHARLIE: No, Arnold.
CHARLIE: You want me to? All right. I'll go up with you.
EDDIE: ( from halfway down the street ) Where you going, Charlie?
CHARLIE: I'll go up with him. Moral support.
EDDIE: What the we'll all go with you. Charlie waves him away.
EDDIE: ( walks back to fellows ) We'll be down at the bar.
THE WOMAN: ( as she goes ) Arnold, wetting his lips, nods. The Woman reaches the first INTERIOR. LANDING The Woman has come around to one of the three doors on the landing and is inserting a key into a lock. Arnold and Charlie appear now at the head of the stairway. The Woman goes into her room, leaving the door open. A moment later, a shaft of light streams out into the landing. For a moment, nothing happens. Then Arnold and Charlie amble slowly down the landing to the open doorway and shaft of light.
INTERIOR. LANDING: The Woman has come around to one of the three doors on the landing and is inserting a key into a lock. Arnold and Charlie appear now at the head of the stairway. The Woman goes into her room, leaving the door open. A moment later, a shaft of light streams out into the landing. For a moment, nothing happens. Then Arnold and Charlie amble slowly down the landing to the open doorway and shaft of light.
CHARLIE: Hey, Arnold, you don't have to go through with this.
ARNOLD: I think I should.
CHARLIE: I'll wait out here for you, okay?
THE WOMAN: Listen, I don't want you to think I don't have a job. I got a job. I She stops abruptly as Arnold, who is sitting, eyes averted, on a straight-back wooden chair, suddenly stands up and moves toward the door.
THE WOMAN: What's the matter?
THE WOMAN: Are you afraid of me?
INTERIOR. LANDING: Charlie looks up at the opening of the door and Arnold's entrance. The Woman stands in the doorway. Arnold moves quickly past Charlie about halfway down the landing, white- faced and trembling.
THE WOMAN: ( getting a little shrill ) What's the matter? Hey. Hey, you. Hey, you, what's the matter?
CHARLIE: Let's go. What's the trouble?
THE WOMAN: I don't know. Ask him. What's the matter? Hey, you. You, what's the Go back inside.. All right, all How about that, huh?
CHARLIE: Go back inside.. All right, all How about that, huh?
THE WOMAN: How about that, huh?
CHARLIE: What happened, Arnold?
ARNOLD: I don't know. I'm just scared.
CHARLIE: Yeah, I don't blame you, I'd be scared too like this. I don't know why we dragged you up here in the first place. It's a barbaric custom. Come on.
ARNOLD: Don't tell Eddie.
CHARLIE: No I won't, Arnold.
ARNOLD: Why don't we just sit here for ten minutes or so? Charlie frowns, then shrugs.
CHARLIE: All right, Arnold.
ARNOLD: Don't ever tell anybody.
CHARLIE: It's nothing to be ashamed of.
ARNOLD: Please, Charlie.
CHARLIE: I won't tell anybody.
MAN'S VOICE: Anything wrong down there?
CHARLIE: ( calling back ) No. No. Nothing wrong.
EDDIE: Hey Walter you know what we ought to do, don't you? We ought to go to that party. Remember that girl Charlie picked up on Tenth Street?
WALTER: I'm going to die, do you know that?
EDDIE: Not tonight, Walter. Tonight you're going to live. Ah, these things are I'm down to my last buck. Got any money on you? He turns as the door to the bar opens and Charlie and Arnold come in.
EDDIE: ( to Charlie ) ( to Arnold ) How'd it go, lover? ( Arnold smiles a mysterious smile, pregnant with sensual meaning ) Hey, Charlie, let's go to this party. It's only twelve o'clock. Oh, these parties are mad, man. All the women wear pajamas, and all the men wear beards. Everybody sits on the floor. Arnold, you got any money? I spent my last buck on those drinks. How about you, Charlie?
ARNOLD: ( assessing his assets ) I got a little over a buck.
EDDIE: What are we, all out? So let's go to this party then. Hey, Charlie, come on.
CHARLIE: ( himself sullen and angry ) Cut it out.
EDDIE: You can have that girl you picked up on Tenth Street. Come on.. All right, you married men want to be so married that's all right with me. But I'd like to see some women Come on.
CHARLIE: Lay off.
EDDIE: I'd like to see some women tonight, you know. Do you mind?
CHARLIE: Cut it out, Eddie. You keep punching me, I swear I'm going to belt you What's the matter with you?
EDDIE: What's the matter with you?
ARNOLD: All right, all right, fellows.
EDDIE: Look, don't get so tough with me, All right, all right, come on.
ARNOLD: All right, all right, come on.
CHARLIE: ( angry ) I don't want to see any other women!
EDDIE: ( just as angry ) All right! Go on home! Who's holding you?! You want to call it a night? Because I'm tired of grousing from one bar to another. You guys go home, and I'll go about my merry way. All right? And don't get so tough with Well, don't poke me.
CHARLIE: Well, don't poke me.
ARNOLD: ( turning Charlie back to his seat ) Come on, let's go . gee .
CHARLIE: ( mutters ) You mess around with other women, it kills your wife and it kills your Eddie suddenly, sulkily strides for the door of the bar.
EDDIE: All right, you guys go home, and I'll go on my merry way. Hey, you guys, you guys want to go to a nutty night club, look at the nuts? There's a nutty night club over on Second Avenue. You know what we can do? Charlie, you live in Stuyvesant Town, don't you?
CHARLIE: You know what we can do? We'll take the crosstown. We'll go over to Charlie's house, he'll get some money, and we'll go to this nutty night club. It's right down on Second Avenue. You got any money home, Charlie?
EDDIE: You know what we can do? We'll take the crosstown. We'll go over to Charlie's house, he'll get some money, and we'll go to this nutty night club. It's right down on Second Avenue. You got any money home, Charlie?
CHARLIE: What do you say, Arnold? You want to Arnold shrugs. Eddie has started for the door already. Charlie wearily gets off his stool, starts to follow Eddie out. Walter takes his arm.
EDDIE: Charlie, get Walter.
CHARLIE: Come on, Walter..
WALTER: I'm going to die, you know what I The sad little party files wearily out of the bar, Arnold pausing at the bar to pay for the drinks.
WALTER: ( mumbling ) Excuse me . excuse me . ( turns his blurred attention to Charlie, who, alone of the three, seems painfully interested in what Walter is talking about ) So what'll I do? I mean, he says, I'm going to die. I mean, the man's a specialist. He says: "Go to Arizona, go to Colorado," he says. "You got to get out of New York or you're going to die." He tells my wife, the stupid idiot. My wife cried all night. I'm going to die, you know that? You understand that? I'm going to die? You know what an asthma attack is like? Your heart starts beating like a drum! I passed out the last time!
CHARLIE: ( deeply compassionate ) Walter, why don't you just quit the job and pack your bags and get out of here?
WALTER: ( getting the words out ) I can't quit. Don't you understand? You don't understand. I can't quit! I got a fourteen-year-old girl, I don't know what time she comes in at night any more. She's so wild, these kids. I got a nineteen-year-old boy in college; he's going to be a doctor if I have to die. He's not going to quit school. You hear me! I worked hard to put that kid in school! I don't care if I die! I don't care! What am I going to do in Arizona? Who wants me? Who's going to give me a job? What kind of a job am I going to get? I'm forty-eight years old. They don't want no forty-eight-year-old bookkeeper. They got machines from IBM. You ever been up on the ninth floor? You ever see all those IBM machines? What am I going to do out in Arizona? You look in the Help Wanted lately? You see any jobs listed for Bookkeeper, Male? What are you talking about? Do you know what you're talking about?
CHARLIE: Easy, Walter.
WALTER: ( flinging Charlie's hand aside ) Take your hand off me. You don't know nothing! You're just a kid! You don't know! I've seen death, kid. I've seen it, boy. I know what it looks like. ( he staggers away a few paces down the aisle, stumbles over the man's toe again ) Excuse me.. Forty-eight years old and so what? What does it mean? What happened? What have I got? What did I make? Who needs me? So this is it. A man's life, nothing. Worry about being sick, worry about making money, worry about your wife, worry about your kids, and you're on your way to the grave from the day you're born. The days drag on, and the years fly by, and so what? ( cries out to the whole world ) What is it all about? Will you tell The train is slowing up for a station now.
WALTER: Life is nothing! It's a gag! It's a joke! It's a mortgage! It's a bankrupt! It's a lot of noise over nothing! Sound and fury! Isn't that what the man said? What do you think, I never read a book? I read a book! Don't worry! I was a bright kid! Everybody thought I was going to be the first Catholic to be President! Where did it all go?! He turns to look at the station they are edging into, the yellow lights, the dark shadows, the few blurred faces. His face is wet with the tiny rivulets left by tears.
WALTER: ( mumbling ) Where did it all go? The train stops, the green doors slide open.
EDDIE: ( looking out, in a low voice ) Where are we, Third Avenue?
ARNOLD: ( low voice ) Where are we getting off? Next stop?
CHARLIE: ( low voice ) A few people come into the car. Walter stands, shoulders hunched and sagging, in front of the open doors.
WALTER: ( muttering ) I'm going home.
CHARLIE: ( looking up ) What did you say, Walter?
WALTER: I'm going home.
CHARLIE: ( standing ) Walter, where are you going? Come here . On the platform, Walter has started to weave slowly up the platform toward the stairway.
EDDIE: ( standing ) What, did Walter get out?
CHARLIE: ( calling through the open window ) Walter, stay there, we'll come back on the next train. Stay there.
ARNOLD: Poor Walter, huh?
CHARLIE: ( bellowing through the window ) Walter! .
EDDIE: ( standing ) He'll be all right, Charlie. God protects drunks and fools.
CHARLIE: Walter! Grab a cab if you're going The train has swept by, and in a moment they have been plunged into the tunnel of the subway, the bleak dirty white walls, and the small yellow lights flashing by. Charlie sits down, somehow greatly shaken and disturbed.
EDDIE: ( sits ) Poor Walter, I didn't know he was so sick. I thought there was something wrong with him, though. He's been out so much.
ARNOLD: ( sitting drunkenly down ) I didn't know he was so sick. CLOSE IN on Charlie.
CHARLIE: That's me in fifteen years.
CHARLIE: That's where I live.
EDDIE: Which one?
CHARLIE: In the back there. You can't see it from here. LONG SHOT of Stuyvesant Town as seen from their point of view. PAN SLOWLY ACROSS, capturing the silent monotony of the dark buildings. Only a few of the windows are still lit.
EDDIE: It looks like a state hospital.
CHARLIE: It looks like a prison.
EDDIE: Yeah, it does look a little like a The three men just stand, worn out, tired.
CHARLIE: ( suddenly ) I'm going home.
EDDIE: ( calling after him ) Hey, Charlie . Charlie turns.
EDDIE: Hey, Charlie! What about the money? Have you got ten bucks?
CHARLIE: ( after a moment ) All right, if you want to walk me to the house, I'll get you ten bucks.
CHARLIE: ( mutters ) I'll be right out.
HELEN: Hiya, have a nice time?
CHARLIE: I'm taking ten bucks. A couple of the guys are waiting outside. I promised them I'd loan them ten He stands by the couch now, without interest, automatically watching the television set.
HELEN: He stands by the couch now, without interest, automatically watching the television set.
CHARLIE: ( looking at the set ) Tomorrow's payday. I'll get it back It's in the drawer.
HELEN: It's in the drawer.
HELEN: What's the matter, Charlie? He shrugs, even smiles briefly.
CHARLIE: I don't know.
HELEN: It's not so bad, Charlie.
CHARLIE: I know. I know.
CHARLIE: ( eyes wide open but unseeing ) I don't know what's the matter with me, I keep getting so depressed. I'm going to quit night school, Helen. My nerves are shot.
CHARLIE: Those guys are waiting outside. I better give them their money.
HELEN: Charlie . Maybe I shouldn't have the baby?
CHARLIE: What do you mean? .
CHARLIE: Isn't that dangerous? . Well, I don't know . maybe . Well, you brought it up.
HELEN: ( shocked after a moment ) You really don't want this baby..
HELEN: You're my husband, Charlie. This is your baby too. That doesn't mean anything to you. For the first time in our marriage I feel I can't depend on you, Charlie I'm not important to you. I could make my life sound hard, too, Charlie. I work all day, I rush home, I make you dinner. I sit home alone four nights a week, I'm even alone when you're here because when do I see you? But it was easy for me because I loved you. Do you think I care whether you're an accountant or a ditch digger, or even out of work? All I ever wanted was you. And this baby because it's you, too.
HELEN: ( dully ) Leave me alone, Charlie.
CHARLIE: ( looking out the window ) I decided I'd quit school and .
HELEN: I don't care .
CHARLIE: I decided I'd quit school and come home in the evenings like everybody else and live a normal life.
HELEN: ( staring at the wall ahead of her ) I don't care what you do, Charlie. He stands another moment.
CHARLIE: I don't care what I do either.
INTERIOR. LANDING: Eddie and Arnold, looking up as the door opens and Charlie comes out.
EDDIE: What took you so long? What did you do, blow open the safe?
CHARLIE: ( giving Eddie the ten-dollar bill ) ( taking it ) I'll give it to you tomorrow. I'll see you in the morning, Charlie.
EDDIE: ( taking it ) I'll give it to you tomorrow. I'll see you in the morning, Charlie.
CHARLIE: I'll see you.
CHARLIE: Wait a minute. I'll go with you.
EDDIE: Let's go to that party we'll have a ball!
HOSTESS: I'm sure that's the police again.
HOSTESS: ( beaming ) Are you coming to complain about the Do we look like complainers?
EDDIE: Do we look like complainers?
HOSTESS: I don't know who you are, but come in, come in. I don't know half the people who are here tonight. They enter a little warily and ill-at-ease, peering into the jammed room.
HOSTESS: The police have been here twice. The first fellow was just adorable. We gave him a drink, and he's upstairs in a bedroom now, for all I know.
EDDIE: Is that right?
HOSTESS: If you want something to drink, you'll just have to go into the kitchen and get it yourself. The place is just mad. Do you write, paint or sing?
EDDIE: But the hostess has already bent to chat with two women, one old, one young, sitting on the floor. Our three cavaliers look at each other and then look out over the wild, jumbled
CHARLIE: Boy, do you get invited to a party like this or do you get committed?
YOUNG CHAP: I heard that. It's awfully funny. Charlie regards the smiling young chap.
EDDIE: Beat it.
EDDIE: This is going to be like shooting ducks. Pick out your duck, men.
EDDIE: Hey, what's the matter, Charlie?
CHARLIE: ( without looking up ) Let's get out of here, Eddie.
EDDIE: The last time I saw you, you was with that girl you picked up. What She's over there talking to that old guy with the glasses. Their point of view, The Existentialist on steps with I didn't like her. She's one of these real Greenwich Village phonies. If I added up all the guys she told me about, she must have had her first boy friend when she was two years old. Where are you going, Eddie. Stick around a minute.
CHARLIE: She's over there talking to that old guy with the glasses. Their point of view, The Existentialist on steps with I didn't like her. She's one of these real Greenwich Village phonies. If I added up all the guys she told me about, she must have had her first boy friend when she was two years old. Where are you going, Eddie. Stick around a minute.
CHARLIE: I didn't like her. She's one of these real Greenwich Village phonies. If I added up all the guys she told me about, she must have had her first boy friend when she was two years old. Where are you going, Eddie. Stick around a minute.
EDDIE: ( who has stood ) I'm with that one over there not bad, huh? I think she's a Communist. I think she's trying to talk me into joining the Party.
CHARLIE: How are you making out?
EDDIE: Not so hot. I may have to join.
CHARLIE: Hang around. Let's talk a bit.
EDDIE: I better get back. She's liable to recruit somebody else.
CHARLIE: Where's Arnold?
EDDIE: He's in the kitchen. I think he's out cold. I'll see you. Charlie nods as Eddie moves off. He returns his morose attention back to his glass of liquor. Then his eyes close, and his face, though impassive, shows pain. After a moment, he opens his eyes and slowly clambers to his feet and makes his way, a little unsteadily, through the living room in the direction of the kitchen. In the background we can hear the piano and somebody singing indistinguishable lyrics. Charlie gets to the kitchen door and looks in. Arnold is at the tiny kitchen table, head on the table, out cold. The kitchen is in a state of havoc.
CHARLIE: Hey Arnold You okay, Arnold? Arnold makes no answer. Charlie regards his prostrated friend expressionlessly for a moment. Then turns and shuffles aimlessly back to the group around the piano in the living room. He looks over to the stairway again. The Existentialist is alone now, The Landlord having gone for the moment. She is looking at Charlie, and he drops his eyes. He turns away from the piano and moves out a few steps into the middle of the living room. He moves to the stairway. The Existentialist looks up at him as he approaches, Charlie kind of nods to her, and, for a moment, she just sits and he just stands. Then .
THE EXISTENTIALIST: That old man I was talking to before? That's my landlord. About ten thirty last night, someone began pounding on my door. So I got up and opened the door, and there was this white-haired man with a pince-nez standing there. I said: "What do you want?" So he said: "I'm the landlord, and I want the rent." Well, I just looked at him because the landlord I knew was a Hungarian man named Frank, who was crazy about me, and the issue of rent never came up, you see. Well, it turned out that this man with the pince-nez had just bought the building the day before and he kept grabbing my arm and saying he wanted the rent. Well, then I got the point, of course. Well, meanwhile, a boy named Bob I knew had come over. He's engaged to a Javanese girl with wonderful planes in her face who lives at the International House. But he's crazy about me and he drops in about twice a week. Well, meanwhile, my new landlord was grabbing my arm and kept quoting poetry to me which he was trying to pass off as his own. He was an absolute fraud. He scotched the whole thing from Baudelaire. "Tu mettrais." You know that one. Well, he kept screaming about the rent I didn't like him, you know and I called this boy named George who used to live in Poughkeepsie when I was going to Vassar, and he's crazy about me. He lives in St. Luke's place now, but he goes to Poughkeepsie every Wednesday to see his mother, he's got an Oedipus, so that was out. Well, my new landlord kept telling me how much he was in love with me. I said: "How existentialist can you get? You just met me five minutes ago." He was absolutely crazy about me.
CHARLIE: ( resigned ) You have an apartment around here ( looks up to second floor ) What's up there? What kind of rooms are up there?
THE EXISTENTIALIST: So, I finally got to sleep around six thirty.. Charlie bends down to her, takes her arm.
CHARLIE: Come on, let's go.
THE EXISTENTIALIST: ( wrenching her arm away ) No! Oh, stop trying to be so Charlie straightens with an irritated sigh.
THE EXISTENTIALIST: I find you very unpleasant. He stands, she sits in sullen silence.
THE EXISTENTIALIST: There's nothing upstairs. Oh, I don't care.
THE EXISTENTIALIST: So I finally got to sleep around six thirty this morning. At nine thirty, someone began pounding on my door again. I got out of bed and opened the door, and there was my landlord with the pince-nez wearing a blue silk kimono. "Oh, for heaven's sakes," I said, "what do you want now?" He said: "I'm the landlord, and I want the rent." I said: "You're an old man, go to sleep." Then the phone rang. It was a boy named Andrew I know who teaches physics at Columbia University, and he's insanely jealous. He's married and has four children, but he keeps badgering me to run away with him to Nicaragua, throw up his professorship and all that. Well, my landlord began shouting some garbled Baudelaire at the top of his lungs, and a little Verlaine, and a little Huysmans. He apparently has some kind of fetish about French decadents. And naturally, Andrew heard him, and he got furious, and he said: "Who's that I hear?" I said, "That's the landlord." He said: "What does he want?" I said: "He wants the rent." Well, at this point, I felt like chucking the whole business and going back to Bessemer City and going to work in my father's hardware store.
THE EXISTENTIALIST: ( muttering ) Just say you love me.
CHARLIE: THE EXISTENTIALIST Just say you love me. You don't have to mean it. He tries to kiss her again, himself charged high at the moment, but she turns her face away from him. The dialogue is intense, whispered, hungry.
THE EXISTENTIALIST: Just say you love me. You don't have to mean it. He tries to kiss her again, himself charged high at the moment, but she turns her face away from him. The dialogue is intense, whispered, hungry.
THE EXISTENTIALIST: No, don't. .
CHARLIE: What's the matter?
THE EXISTENTIALIST: Say you love me..
CHARLIE: Come on.
THE EXISTENTIALIST: Say you love me..
CHARLIE: Come on..
THE EXISTENTIALIST: No .
CHARLIE: I love you! I love you!
THE EXISTENTIALIST: ( content ) Look, maybe we ought to go someplace else? I'm having a very tricky thing going with my landlord and I don't want him to see us leaving together. So you know what you do? There's a bar down the street. You go out the door and turn to your right. You know the one I mean?
CHARLIE: Yes, I know.
THE EXISTENTIALIST: Well, you go there and I'll be there as fast as I can. Now, wait for me now, because I can't stand being alone at night. You'll like me. I'm supposed to be very amusing. All She turns abruptly and goes out the door. He stands for a moment and then follows. He stands on the upper landing, watching her pick her way down the stairs into the living She looks quickly around the room, apparently finds whom she is looking for, and moves quickly to a little group of men, one of whom is about sixty years old with a thin elegance and a cruel face, the landlord. He has several young men around him, all rather frail, Ivy-Leagueish. She joins the group, to the distaste of the young men, and is immediately voluble and gesticulatory. After a moment, Charlie lets his eyes wander over the room, apparently sees Eddie.
CHARLIE: ( calling down ) Hey, Eddie .
CHARLIE: ( muttering ) Eddie, I'm cutting out.
EDDIE: ( standing, low voice ) Wait a minute, I'll go with you.
CHARLIE: I don't want to take you away from your girl, Eddie.
EDDIE: Aah, this one lives out in Long Island with her mother. What kind of Communist is that? It'll take me a half hour on the subway there and a half hour back.
CHARLIE: ( shrugs ) Where's Arnold? Still in the kitchen?
EDDIE: I guess so. I'll see you, next time I get to Long Island. He starts off after Charlie who is already wandering through the living room in the general direction of the kitchen, looking about for Arnold. They pass The Existentialist en route. She is saying: ". this boy named Charlie, I never saw him before in my life, has been clutching at me all evening. He's absolutely insane about me." Charlie leans into the kitchen where Arnold is awake now, seated at the small kitchen table, staring gauntly, unseeingly at his fingers on the white porcelain-topped table. There are two men, one middle-aged, one young, having a whispered chat over the sink.
EDDIE: ( over Charlie's shoulder ) Hey, Arnold, come on.
EDDIE: Well, it wasn't a bad party. We killed a couple of hours anyway.
EDDIE: . I mean, you can't compare the two. This kid the Yankees have in centerfield. Are you trying to tell me he's a natural .368 hitter? What's he normally hit, .310, .315? Musial led the National League in hitting six times. He's only having a fair year, this year and he's still hitting .320. Musial is an all-time Yeah. I guess so.
CHARLIE: Yeah. I guess so.
ARNOLD: ( stiff with liquor ) Eddie Eddie. So what do you think, Eddie? You think I ought to go through with this marriage?
EDDIE: I don't know about you, Arnold, but if it was me, boy, I'd be in China by now. Who have the Yankees got on first? Skowron. Boy, how they touted Skowron. All right, he's having a lucky year.
CHARLIE: ( continuing ) . Well, I mean, is there any argument? Hodges is the best first baseman in both leagues..
EDDIE: ( continuing ) . Well, I mean, is there any argument? Hodges is the best first baseman in both leagues..
ARNOLD: So, Eddie, what do you think? You think I ought to marry her, go to China, or what?
EDDIE: Arnold, if it bothers you so much, call her up and tell her to forget the whole deal. All right Hodges is having a bad year but how about last year? He hit over .300. He only hit thirty- five homers and he drove in over a hundred runs
ARNOLD: So, Eddie.
EDDIE: Arnold! Get rid of her! You're driving me crazy! Arnold lowers his head, and he rises, loses his precarious balance and moves backward a few lurching steps.
EDDIE: ( continuing ) All right, who's on second? We got Charlie Neal or Gilliam, for that matter, and this isn't even counting Jackie Robinson, head and shoulders, even with a trick knee, the best second baseman in both leagues if they'd let him play there. We got three guys, for Pete's sake, who can outplay anybody the Yankees put on Arnold weaves slowly up the bar to the two phone booths at the far end of the counter. Then walks out of shot.
EDDIE: ( continuing ) Ever see Charlie Neal go to his right? That Yankee guy, what's his name he can't go to his right. And don't forget Neal gets a lot of bases on balls, and once he's on the bases, man, it unnerves the pitcher . The bartender decides to take issue.
BARTENDER: What's Brooklyn going to do for Never heard of Newcombe? Never heard of Erskine?
EDDIE: Never heard of Newcombe? Never heard of Erskine?
BARTENDER: What have you got to compare with Ford, Kucks, McDermott, Turley-
EDDIE: McDermott McDermott hasn't pitched a full game since last year.
BARTENDER: The best relief pitcher in both What's the matter with Eddie Roebuck?
EDDIE: What's the matter with Eddie Roebuck?
BARTENDER: How do you compare Eddie Roebuck with McDermott?
EDDIE: What are you, a Yankee fan?
BARTENDER: Well, drop dead. A Yankee fan.
EDDIE: Well, drop dead. A Yankee fan.
ARNOLD'S VOICE: Eddie and Charlie slowly turn to look in Arnold's direction. CAMERA PANS to see Arnold from their point of view, a wavering, drunken young man standing in front of the phone
ARNOLD: I did it.
EDDIE: You did what?
ARNOLD: I just woke her up! I called her! I said: "I'm not going to marry you. What do I want to marry you for? I'm having a ball. What am I going to marry you for?"
EDDIE: What is he talking about?
BARTENDER: Boy, he's gone.
CHARLIE: I think he's just called his girl, broke his engagement.
EDDIE: Is that what he was yelling about?
CHARLIE: ( trying to raise Arnold's head ) Wake up, kid. Help me get him up, You think he did it because I was needling him there before? I was just needling him.
EDDIE: You think he did it because I was needling him there before? I was just needling him.
BARTENDER: You better get him out of here because I'm closing up now.
CHARLIE: We better get him home.
EDDIE: Ah, let's not break it up yet. I thought you were waiting for this It's three o'clock in the morning, for Pete's sake.
CHARLIE: It's three o'clock in the morning, for Pete's sake.
BARTENDER: Take him out in the air. He'll be all right.
CHARLIE: What a bachelor party. We start out celebrating the guy's wedding; we wind up breaking his engagement. What do we owe you here? Eddie, pay it, will you? I gave you the ten bucks.
EDDIE: ( following him to the bar ) What do you want to go home for?
CHARLIE: It's going to take us an hour to get him home. He lives in Queens somewheres. By the time I get back to Fourteenth Street, it'll be daybreak. What are you going to do, stay up all night? Don't you want to go home sometimes?
EDDIE: What am I going to do home? I read all the papers.
CHARLIE: ( crosses to Arnold ) Well, go to sleep then.
EDDIE: Ah, don't go home, Charlie. I feel like doing something. Charlie turns to him, a cold fury in him.
CHARLIE: What? Stand around this bar and argue about the Yankees and the Dodgers? Wind up with some miserable, lonely girl who begs you to say, "I love you"? Go home, Eddie. Go to bed. You got to go home sometimes. I'll take Arnold home. Come on, Arnold, kid. I'm going to take you home.
EDDIE: ( spiritlessly ) Hey, honey, what are you, a Yankee fan or a Dodger fan?
BAR HAG: Bleakly, Eddie shuffles slowly down the long length of the bar to where the battered old woman sits.
CHARLIE: ( gently ) Are you all right, Arnold?
CHARLIE: Would you like to go back in and sit down? Arnold shakes his head weakly "no."
CHARLIE: What subway do you take, Arnold, the BMT? Can you make it?
CHARLIE: Come on, Arnold, I'll take you home.
THE EXISTENTIALIST: Is he all right?
CHARLIE: ( nods ) Yeah, he's all right. Look, I've got to take my friend home.
THE EXISTENTIALIST: ( calling lightly ) Are you coming back? Where does he live? How long will you be?
ARNOLD: Well, thanks a lot, Charlie.
CHARLIE: You all right?
ARNOLD: Yeah, I'm all right. I'm a little groggy, but I'm awake anyway. You don't want to come in, do you?
CHARLIE: No, I don't think so.
ARNOLD: I think my father and mother are up. I hear voices. My girl must have called them because they wouldn't be up at this hour.
CHARLIE: Well, you just go in and explain to them that you were drunk, and you're sorry, and you'll call your girl the first thing in the morning because she must really be upset about this.
ARNOLD: ( who has been listening at his door ) I think she's here.
CHARLIE: My girl. I think I hear her voice in Well, be nice to her, Arnold. Remember, you woke her up in the middle of the night and probably scared her to death.
ARNOLD: My girl. I think I hear her voice in Well, be nice to her, Arnold. Remember, you woke her up in the middle of the night and probably scared her to death.
CHARLIE: Well, be nice to her, Arnold. Remember, you woke her up in the middle of the night and probably scared her to death.
ARNOLD: What'll I say to her, Charlie?
CHARLIE: I don't know, Arnold. What do you feel like saying to her? Do you really love this girl? Do you want to marry her? Are you marrying this girl because your family wants you to marry her, or why?
ARNOLD: I think I like her, Charlie. It's just that I'm afraid I won't make a good husband.
CHARLIE: Well, tell her what you told me, Arnold. Tell her you're scared, and that you don't think you'll make a good husband. If she's a halfway decent girl, she'll try to understand how you feel, and, if she loves you, she's going to make it her job to make you happy. That's what love is, Arnold, when you have somebody else in the world you want to be happy. My wife, Arnold, I don't know what I'd do without her. Arnold, I've got a tough grind ahead of me. Work all day, I'll go to night school at night. But my wife knows that I need this to be happy, and she does everything she knows to help me. And we've got a baby coming. But if you love that baby and you love your wife, then it's easy. Everything seems so easy to me now I don't know why I even thought of quitting. Arnold, I want my wife so much right now. I want her to be happy. I want to just go home and hold her and tell her how much she means to me. I mean, even Walter, he's going to die, but don't you think he'll be in tomorrow morning, same old Walter, jokes and laughs? He's got somebody to live for. He's even got somebody to die for. I mean, how rich can a man be? And poor Eddie I used to be so jealous of him. I used to think he was so free. Free from what? From loving a woman, from really wanting a woman. Arnold, what I'm trying to tell you is life is nothing if you don't love somebody but life is wonderful if you do love somebody. Arnold, I want my wife so much right now .
ARNOLD: I'm going to tell her about that woman tonight and everything. I'll tell her about that woman.
CHARLIE: Arnold, I want to get home so much to my wife right now I'm going to I'll see you, Charlie.
ARNOLD: I'll see you, Charlie.
CHARLIE: Good-bye, Arnold, have a nice honeymoon. I'll see you when you get I'll see you, Charlie.
ARNOLD: I'll see you, Charlie.
ARNOLD: Hello, Louise. I'm very sorry, Sure, Arnold, I know.
LOUISE: Sure, Arnold, I know.
CHARLIE: I love you, Helen.
HELEN: ( crying softly ) I love you so much, Charlie. I love you so much..
CHARLIE: I love you..
HELEN: I love you, Charlie, I love you, Charlie. I love you, Charlie .
FADE OUT: Writers : Paddy Chayefsky
