DR. HARRIS: DR. HARRIS ( mid-fifties, jovial ) looks up from between Zoe's knees, the light on his head flashing right in Zoe's eyes.
ZOE: My toes.sorry.
DR. HARRIS: I'm not looking at your toes.
ZOE: Right. Duh.
DR. HARRIS: All done.
ZOE: That's it?
DR. HARRIS: I'll elevate your legs for ten minutes and then you're good to go.
ZOE: This is the first time I've heard that ticking clock sound and it doesn't freak me out.
DR. HARRIS: Good. Just relax.
ZOE: I can't, I'm totally freaking out.
DR. HARRIS: Everything's going to be great. I have a feeling you and. Number CRM-101404 are going to make beautiful babies together.
BOBBY: Says here he has red hair and And glasses, too.
ZOE: And glasses, too.
BOBBY: And why are we picking him?
ZOE: Because he's honest.
BOBBY: He's ugly.
ZOE: You think they're all telling the truth? If they're so smart and good looking, why are they beating off into a cup?
BOBBY: Have you ever fucked a guy with red hair and freckles?
ZOE: No, and I won't have to.
BOBBY: But what about your kid? No one's going to want to fuck your kid. That came out wrong.
ZOE: Yeah.it's a good thing you're not going to be the father.
BOBBY: What? I can't be the father!
ZOE: Come on, we don't have to have sex.
BOBBY: Oh, Jesus, I didn't even think about that. Rewind, rewind, You're one of my best friends. Don't you want to help me?
ZOE: You're one of my best friends. Don't you want to help me?
BOBBY: Yeah, but.that's too much. I'll walk your dog, tell you when you look fat, be honest about your Just a few sperm. Big deal. You waste billions of them every night.
ZOE: Just a few sperm. Big deal. You waste billions of them every night.
BOBBY: You know I flee at the slightest chance of intimacy. Do you see these bags under my eyes? Ricardo slept over last night, and he wanted to hold me. I actually had to fake a seizure.
ZOE: Forget it. Forget the whole thing.
MONA: You don't want kids. Trust me.
ZOE: Easy for you to say. You have Yeah, and it's awful.
MONA: Yeah, and it's awful.
ZOE: Come on.
MONA: Have you seen my vagina?
ZOE: I don't want to see your vagina. I want a baby. My own baby.
MONA: Is it possible you're just a little lonely? You know, you haven't met the right guy and
ZOE: It's not about a guy. I don't need a guy. I don't even think I want a guy at this point. I've dated a hundred guys in the last five years, and not one of them is even close to being the one. How long am I supposed to wait?
MONA: You never know. He could be right around the corner.
ZOE: Well, then he's late. And I hate people who are late. And what if he's not right around the corner? What if he's miles away?
ZOE: Then a tear forms in the corner of her eye. She wipes it away. She wipes a tear from the other eye. Happy tears. Then she looks at her legs high above her on the table.
DR. HARRIS: You don't have to walk like that.
ZOE: Oh. Okay.
ZOE: PREGNANT WOMEN
PREGNANT WOMEN: INT. ELEVATOR - DAY Zoe enters the elevator where there is a WOMAN holding a BABY. Zoe smiles at them. Another member of the club.
ZOE: The elevator descends. Zoe continues to stare at the baby with a big smile. She stares for an uncomfortably long time.
WOMAN: The elevator descends. Zoe continues to stare at the baby with a big smile. She stares for an uncomfortably long time.
ZOE: Zoe looks down. After a beat, she sneaks another look.
WOMAN: Stop it.
ZOE: Zoe looks uptown for a cab. Nope. Nothing. She starts to walk, still keeping her legs firmly pressed together. She rounds the corner towards the subway station and then, miraculously, spies a cab.
ZOE: As soon as the word comes out of her mouth, she notices someone entering the cab from the other side. This is STAN, early 40s, but looks more like a college kid faded jeans, t-shirt, cute, messy hair.
STAN: You own it?
ZOE: No, but I'm about to rent it.
STAN: Actually, if we're being technical, you kind of stole it.
ZOE: I don't think so.
STAN: If you see someone about to get in a cab, you can't just run in from the other side and say it's yours.
ZOE: I didn't see you.
STAN: I saw you see me.
ZOE: ( to the cabbie ) Sir, who saw you first?
STAN: Maybe you're not from around here, but there's a code. It's like war, even though it's brutal and bloody, there are still certain rules we
ZOE: Fine. Forget it. I'll get out.
STAN: No. I'll get out.
ZOE: Now what?
STAN: I don't know. You tell me.
ZOE: What? Where's he going?! Come back!
STAN: You said you were in a great mood and I was ruining it. I felt bad. Did you just call me stupid-head?
ZOE: Oh, man.
STAN: How's your great mood now?
STAN: How `bout now?
ZOE: Please stop talking to me.
STAN: So, why are you in such a good mood
ZOE: Not that it's any of your business, but.good things are happening to
STAN: That's nice. I hope it continues.
ZOE: Thanks. Well, have a nice life. Try not to steal any more cabs.
STAN: You do the same.
ZOE: Hey, Nutsy. How's it going?
BOBBY: Oh, my God, you're glowing. She's glowing, right?
JALISA: Glowing. Tell us everything.
BOBBY: There's not much to tell.
ZOE: There's not much to tell.
BOBBY: You just got shot up with a wad of red-headed-freckle sperm. There's something to tell.
JALISA: He had red hair and freckles?
BOBBY: I tried to talk her out of it.
JALISA: Why'd you do that, Mami?
BOBBY: ( to Jalisa ) I know, right?
JALISA: Red pubes. Eek.
ZOE: I'm never going to see his pubes!
BOBBY: You'll see your kid's pubes.
ZOE: I doubt it.
BOBBY: But you'll know they're there.
ZOE: What is wrong with you?
JALISA: So, what happened? Come on.
ZOE: I lay down, put my feet up, five minutes later it was over. I barely felt a thing.
BOBBY: Sounds like Ricardo.
JALISA: Tell me about it, Papi.
BOBBY: So.what happens now?
ZOE: Now, we wait.
BOBBY: That's no fun, I want to know if I'm going to be a fairy godmother.
ZOE: We'll just have to wait and see.
BOBBY: Come on, Zoe, one drink. You can have an O'Dhouls or something.
JALISA: We'll go to the piano bar and get Bobby to sing some Ace of Base.
BOBBY: Forget it, she's not coming. I can tell by the dull look on her face.
ZOE: Love you.
STAN: Zoe screams and drops the keys. Nuts, overexcited by Zoe's reaction, starts to run/wheel in circles and then tips over.
ZOE: Zoe screams and drops the keys. Nuts, overexcited by Zoe's reaction, starts to run/wheel in circles and then tips over.
STAN: Oh, wow. Is he.okay?
ZOE: What are you doing here?
STAN: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to scare you. Or hurt your dog. Don't worry, I'm not a stalker.
ZOE: How'd you know I worked here?
STAN: I followed you after the subway. That sounds a little stalkery, huh?
ZOE: I just really wanted to see you again. Almost like I had to see you again. Can I walk you home? Is it me or does everything I say make me sound more like a stalker?
STAN: I just really wanted to see you again. Almost like I had to see you again. Can I walk you home? Is it me or does everything I say make me sound more like a stalker?
ZOE: Yeah. My family has a goat farm. We make cheese. You like cheese?
STAN: Yeah. My family has a goat farm. We make cheese. You like cheese?
ZOE: I guess. I've never really thought about it.
STAN: Little Goat. Maybe you've seen us at the Farmer's market? Come by sometime and you can taste my Okay, I'm going to go. This has not gone as planned.
ZOE: Stan lifts his hand to wave but doesn't even turn around. Clearly, he feels like an idiot. Zoe watches him go.
CAROL: Everyone, please say hello to Zoe.
EVERYONE: Hi, Zoe.
CAROL: Welcome to Single Mother's By Choice. As the name suggests, we are all single mothers by choice. Some of us have adopted, some conceived with a donor, every story is different, but with the same common denominator. We wanted to have a child, and we didn't need a partner to make it happen.
LORI: Are you a doer or a tryer?
ZOE: Excuse me?
LORI: Are you already a single mother or are you trying to become one?
ZOE: Oh, I guess I'm trying. I was just inseminated a few days ago. Inseminated.makes me feel like a cow or something.
CAROL: Well, when we don't have partners with penises, we do what we've got to do, right? So, tell us a little bit about Okay. Let's see.um, I own a pet store on Hudson Street. Dogs, cats, rabbits.no birds, they creep me out. Before that, I worked for Google, which I completely hated. One day, I decided life was too short, and, against my accountant's advice, I quit Google, cashed out and bought the pet store. Now I'm really happy on the work front, but I still haven't found, you know, the Ah, yes. The elusive "one."
ZOE: Okay. Let's see.um, I own a pet store on Hudson Street. Dogs, cats, rabbits.no birds, they creep me out. Before that, I worked for Google, which I completely hated. One day, I decided life was too short, and, against my accountant's advice, I quit Google, cashed out and bought the pet store. Now I'm really happy on the work front, but I still haven't found, you know, the Ah, yes. The elusive "one."
CAROL: Ah, yes. The elusive "one."
ZOE: I always imagined I'd be married with kids by now, but it doesn't look like it's going to happen that way. So, time for Plan B.
CAROL: Society tells us we're supposed to find that special person to make us happy and complete. But guess what.you have to create your own happiness. You don't need someone to complete you, some.man. You already are complete.
LORI: Amen, sister.
CAROL: If you want to have a baby, we here at Single Mothers By Choice can be your partners. We will be your emotional rocks.
SARA: Dakota was actually born right here in this very room. Right where you're sitting, actually.
ZOE: ( uncomfortable ) Really? Right here? Imagine that.
SARA: Best day of my life.
ZOE: And how old is she now?
DAKOTA: I'm three.
MONA: Why did you join a support group of unattractive, militant lesbians when you have me?
ZOE: Because you're really not that Sure I am.
MONA: Sure I am.
ZOE: You just told me that if I breast- feed "my girls" will end up looking like empty tube socks.
MONA: I'm just being honest. And don't even get me started on what childbirth does to your bladder.
ZOE: What does it do to your bladder?
MONA: I just peed a little bit.
ZOE: I don't think I'm pregnant. The doctor says it will probably take several tries. Something about frozen sperm being lazy.
MONA: Good. Take your time.
ZOE: So, should I call this guy? Do you think that would be weird?
MONA: Do I think it's weird that you're pursuing someone at the exact moment in time that you might be most unavailable? No. Because that's what you do. You sabotage.
ZOE: ( ignoring her ) He works at the Farmer's market. And it's right around the corner. Are you thinking what I'm thinking?
MONA: I look fat and old?
ZOE: Then, no.
MONA: Then, no.
ZOE: Let's go spy on him. Come on. It will be fun. Like high school.
MONA: I can't. This twenty minute breakfast concludes my "me" time for the week. More proof that you should not have kids.
ZOE: Oh, well.
OLIVIA: Can I help you?
ZOE: ( distracted ) No, I'm fine.
OLIVIA: Tasty, huh?
ZOE: And don't look now, but he's coming this way.
OLIVIA: And don't look now, but he's coming this way.
STAN: A-ha! I didn't scare you away after all.
ZOE: ( trying to be casual ) I was just in the neighborhood. I thought I'd come by and get some blueberries. I'm going to make a I love blueberry pie.
STAN: I love blueberry pie.
ZOE: I'm confused. I thought you made cheese or something.
STAN: What makes you think I don't?
ZOE: I don't know, you're over there playing the banjo.
STAN: Can't someone do both?
ZOE: Honestly, I didn't know anyone did
OLIVIA: Aren't you going to introduce me to your new friend?
STAN: ( to Zoe ) Come on. Let me show you around.
STAN: This is our basic chevre, probably our best seller. The cheese that started it all, as they say. Then over here we have our surface- ripened cheeses. These are the aged/raw milk cheeses. This is really boring, huh?
ZOE: No, not at all.
STAN: It's like you're in a foreign country and the only thing to watch on tv is a documentary on cheese. You don't want to watch it, but somehow you can't stop.
ZOE: ( laughing ) I think it's interesting. Really.
STAN: All right, you asked for it. The aged/raw milk cheeses are made from raw milk and then aged for four to six months. Sometimes more. Sometimes less. Usually more. Depends on the cheese.
FRED: Stop. You're killing me.
STAN: Fred, Zoe, Zoe, Fred. She's the one I followed from the subway the other day like a total Right.I heard about you.
FRED: Right.I heard about you.
ZOE: I don't know whether to be flattered or terrified.
FRED: Be afraid.
STAN: Don't scare her away. I'm trying to redeem myself.
FRED: Then you should put down the banjo. You look like a doofus.
STAN: ( then, to Zoe ) Do you think I look like a doofus?
ZOE: I don't really know what a doofus looks like.
STAN: Okay. If I put the banjo down, can I take you to lunch or something?
ZOE: I should really get back to work.
STAN: Come on, say the word and we can have a six-course tasting menu at Union Square Cafe. I know the That sounds nice, but, I should probably go.
ZOE: That sounds nice, but, I should probably go.
STAN: Well, can I call you?
BOBBY: do we know him?
JALISA: do we know him?
ZOE: He's called twice already.
JALISA: He's called twice already.
ZOE: and different and plays the banjo. I think I like him.
BOBBY: and different and plays the banjo. I think I like him.
ZOE: and different and plays the banjo. I think I like him.
BOBBY: and different and plays the banjo. I think I like him.
ZOE: and different and plays the banjo. I think I like him.
BOBBY: the oven?
ZOE: want to be pregnant. I'm confused.
JALISA: want to be pregnant. I'm confused.
ZOE: want to be pregnant. I mean, I put a lot of thought into this, right? So what did Stan say?
BOBBY: want to go to.
STAN: We could have gone anywhere.
ZOE: Just take a bite. You'll see.
STAN: Per Se, Jean Georges, Nobu.
ZOE: Gray's Papaya. Cheers.
STAN: I actually haven't lived here my whole life. We moved out of the city when my parents bought the farm..not died, but actually bought a farm and moved upstate.
ZOE: That must have been a nice place to grow up. On a farm.
STAN: What about your family?
ZOE: It's just me and my grandmother. She lives in a retirement community in Queens. My parents died when I was young.
STAN: I'm so sorry.
ZOE: It's okay. My dad was kind of a bad guy, Shit. I'm so sorry, Zoe.
STAN: Shit. I'm so sorry, Zoe.
ZOE: No, come on, we'll get all this stuff out of the way so we never have to talk about it again. Let's ask all the awkward, get-to-know- you questions right now.
STAN: Okay. Good idea.
ZOE: Let's see.are you religious?
STAN: Nope. What about you?
ZOE: Have you ever been married?
STAN: Have you ever been married?
ZOE: Aren't you sick of going to If I have to listen to one more couple write their own vows.
STAN: Aren't you sick of going to If I have to listen to one more couple write their own vows.
ZOE: If I have to listen to one more couple write their own vows.
STAN: I hate when they write their own
ZOE: What about them?
STAN: Well, do you want them?
ZOE: Yeah. I want kids.
STAN: Yeah. Absolutely.
ZOE: Okay, first kiss.
STAN: Jen Salzer. Seventh grade. She wore a head-gear. What about you?
ZOE: Summer camp. I think his name was
STAN: When can I see you again?
ZOE: What if I'm pregnant?
MONA: Then you'll get fat and hormonal and I'll say, "I told you so."
ZOE: But what if this could go somewhere with Stan? Like, really go Then it will work out perfectly.
MONA: Then it will work out perfectly.
ZOE: What do you mean?
MONA: Because just when you really like him, you'll break up because you're pregnant and then you never have to put yourself out there and possibly get hurt. That's your dream.
ZOE: ( thinks, then ) I'm not pregnant.
MONA: So, when are you seeing him again?
ZOE: Well, don't have sex with him. That's the last thing we need. You get knocked up and we'll have no idea who the father is.
MONA: Well, don't have sex with him. That's the last thing we need. You get knocked up and we'll have no idea who the father is.
ZOE: I'm not going to have sex with him tonight. It's too soon. I'm not a slut.
MONA: Well, bring condoms, just in case. And a pregnancy test.
ZOE: Very funny.
MONA: I'm not joking.
ZOE: I'm really not a slut.
ZOE: There's no way, right?
ZOE: Stop looking at me like that. I'm not pregnant.
STAN: Are you feeling okay?
STAN: And this looks like a mache salad with grapes and feta.
OLIVIA: Hey, stranger.
STAN: Oh, hey, Olivia. You remember Zoe.
OLIVIA: Right. How'd that blueberry pie turn out?
ZOE: You bought blueberries from me? Said you were going to make a pie?
OLIVIA: You bought blueberries from me? Said you were going to make a pie?
ZOE: Um, can you excuse me for a second?
OLIVIA: No way she knows how to bake a pie.
ZOE: I'm pregnant.
ZOE: BOBBY ( O.S. )
ZOE: I can't. I'm at some underground foodie party in Brooklyn. Where am I gonna
STAN: Where have you been?
ZOE: Sorry. You scared me.
STAN: Did you just go to the store?
ZOE: Yeah, I had a little emergency. I have a, a, um.corn, and I needed to get those little.corn pads.
STAN: Corn pads?
ZOE: I know, it's gross. Do you know where the bathroom is?
STAN: What's a corn pad?
ZOE: Corn pad? What the hell is wrong with you?
ZOE: Excuse me, are you allowed to drink when you're.
PREGNANT WOMAN: ( off Zoe's nod ) My doctor says one glass is
STAN: Who makes me forget all the other girls I met, sweet, little Miss Blue Eyes. Who's sweeter to me, than she really ought to be, sweet little Miss Blue Eyes.
ZOE: She spies an unused pregnancy test on the floor. One that must have dropped. Maybe this will be the one with the answer she's looking for. She sits back on the toilet, mustering up all of her focus to pee again. She closes her But she can't pee. She tries and tries.
STAN: My singing made you vomit.
ZOE: No. It's not that.
STAN: Sure, we were a little out of tune, I really don't feel well.
ZOE: I really don't feel well.
STAN: Is it your corns? Hurts to walk?
CAROL: Wow. Hi. Hey, there.
ZOE: Wow. Hi. Hey, there.
CAROL: Where have you been? You haven't been coming to any
ZOE: ( cutting her off ) Right. I know. I've been so busy. Next one, I'm there. For sure. ( then, awkward ) This is my friend, Stan.
STAN: ( eyeing Stan suspiciously ) Hello. Are you two
CAROL: ( eyeing Stan suspiciously ) Hello. Are you two
ZOE: Late. Yes. We are. We really I'll see you at the meeting. Bye.
STAN: An old.boyfriend?
ZOE: Her name is Carol. We're on a.committee together.
STAN: ( then ) Hey, I was thinking, if you don't have any plans this weekend, maybe you'd like to come up to the farm and get away for a few days.
ZOE: I'll call you tomorrow. Something's not agreeing with me.
STAN: Was it the lamb's tongue?
ZOE: What the hell have I done?
ANNIE: Hi, Zoe. You look fantastic.
ZOE: I don't know how that's possible.
ANNIE: Something's different. Did you get highlights or a spray tan? Your face looks like it's.
ZOE: Please don't say glowing.
ANNIE: Yes! Exactly!
ZOE: Morning, Arthur.
ARTHUR: Hello, my dear!
ZOE: No, no, no, don't get up.
ARTHUR: Good, because I can't get up. Came to see my lovely fiance? She's looking fine today, let me tell you. Fine.
ZOE: Hi, Nana.
NANA: One more mile to go. Do you have a minute? Talk to Arthur.
ARTHUR: That's what I'm talking about. Work it.
NANA: Do you want a nose guard? I have an extra.
ZOE: No, I'm fine.
SHIRLEY: Are you sure? Ethel Silverbeck just had another carcinoma removed from her nose.
ZOE: ( to Nana ) I kind of need to talk to you.
NANA: Don't worry, they can't hear anything anyway.
ZOE: I'm pregnant.
NANA: ( can't hear her ) I'm pregnant.
ZOE: I'm pregnant.
NANA: I'm pregnant.
ZOE: I'm pregnant.
NANA: I can't hear you, darling.
SHIRLEY: Jesus, Judy, she's pregnant. Turn your hearing aide up.
ZOE: What am I going to do?
NANA: I'm confused. Isn't this what you wanted? You bought sperm and were inseminated by your doctor. This isn't what we would call an But now it's all happening so fast. Did I really think this through?
ZOE: But now it's all happening so fast. Did I really think this through?
NANA: said it was what you wanted more than anything in the world.
ZOE: all going to fall apart now.
NANA: And funny. And different. The other guys I've been with all had their briefcases and their five- year plans and their secretaries they were fucking. Stan doesn't have a five-year plan. I don't even know if he has a plan.
ZOE: And funny. And different. The other guys I've been with all had their briefcases and their five- year plans and their secretaries they were fucking. Stan doesn't have a five-year plan. I don't even know if he has a plan.
NANA: ( then ) I like him, Nana.
ZOE: ( then ) I like him, Nana.
NANA: would be enough to appease you.
ZOE: would be enough to appease you.
NANA: would be enough to appease you.
ZOE: weekend? Or should I just vanish and hope he forgets I ever existed.
NANA: the weekend. Spend some time with him and see what he's really like.
ZOE: You might find out he's a total douchebag and then the whole thing is moot.
NANA: You might find out he's a total douchebag and then the whole thing is moot.
ZOE: Okay, so we'll just hope that he's a douchebag. Could happen, right?
ZOE: Am I even allowed to drink coffee?
ZOE: Thanks a lot, decaf.
ZOE: I have no idea.
ZOE: He's so not a douchebag.
ZOE: I can't believe you live here. This is ridiculous.
STAN: I just come on weekends. My parents really live here.
ZOE: Oh. Where are they now?
STAN: In the kitchen.
ZOE: Wait, they're here? Now? Is this a "meet the parents" kind of thing? I wasn't prepared for this.
STAN: No. Not at all. I mean, you'll meet them, but
ZOE: When you said come up for the weekend, I assumed it was just us. I think I need to lay down.
STAN: Are you hung-over or something?
ZOE: I'm just.not myself. Give me ten minutes. A ten-minute power nap and I'm good. I need to regroup.
STAN: Are you sure you're okay? Zoe? Hello?
EDWARD: Oh. It's just you.
STAN: She's taking a nap.
JOAN: A nap? Now? She just got here.
STAN: Mom, I need you to not be judgemental, okay. I like this girl a lot.
JOAN: How can I be judgemental? We haven't even met her yet.
STAN: Oh. This is Nuts.
JOAN: Who's judging?!
ZOE: What was that?
ZOE: ( whispering )
ZOE: Stan? Hello?
JOAN: Would you like a plate?
EDWARD: The stew is delicious, honey.
STAN: Yeah, Mom, it's awesome.
EDWARD: ( to Zoe ) Have you ever in your life had stew like this? Come on, be honest.
ZOE: Uh.no. Never.
JOAN: So are all the animals in your pet store.differently abled?
ZOE: Oh, you can say paralyzed. He doesn't mind. No, our pets are all in great shape. Purebreads mostly, but not from puppy mills.
JOAN: Those puppy mills are terrible. I read about them in the paper.
ZOE: Well, that's actually how I ended up with Nuts. I bought him from this pet store near my house. Six months later, I had thousands of dollars in vet bills and had to put him in a wheelchair.
EDWARD: You should have sued that place.
ZOE: I thought about it, but what was that really going to do? They were still going to sell inbred dogs. So.I took the money I made when I left Google and just bought the place figuring I would do better.
STAN: You worked for Google?
ZOE: You never asked.
STAN: And you made a lot of money and then bought a pet store?
ZOE: It's been fun. Beats brand management, that's for sure.
JOAN: ( to Edward ) That sounds like us, honey.
EDWARD: It's true. When we bought this farm we just wanted to make cheese because we couldn't find anything we liked in the stores. And now, twenty years later, here we are.
JOAN: Sometimes in life you just have to take matters into your own hands. Make things happen your own way, you know?
STAN: I can't believe that Nuts has an off-road wheelchair.
ZOE: He's got one for snow, too. With little skis on the bottom.
STAN: You're really something.
ZOE: Are you making fun of me? Do you think I spoil him?
STAN: No, I really think you're amazing. I mean, that story you told tonight. You just quit your whole professional life because of this little dog? Started your own business, just like that?
ZOE: Well, you're a dime a dozen. I can't tell you how many banjo playing, cheese makers I've been I keep waiting for the other shoe to drop. Like, how can you be so perfect? Why are you even still single? I can't believe no one's snatched you up by now.
STAN: I keep waiting for the other shoe to drop. Like, how can you be so perfect? Why are you even still single? I can't believe no one's snatched you up by now.
ZOE: I drive them all away, I guess.
STAN: Yeah, right.
ZOE: It is going fast.
STAN: But isn't that okay? Aren't we old enough to skip all the bullshit? What are we waiting for? I.want to be with you.
ZOE: Come on. There's something I want to show you.
STAN: Come on. There's something I want to show you.
ZOE: What is it?
STAN: It's cheese.
ZOE: I can see that.
STAN: It's a new kind of goat's milk we're using. I've been developing the recipe, and now it needs to age. It'll be ready for market in several months. Want to know what it's called?
ZOE: You named a piece of cheese after Not just one piece. The whole line. This will forever in history be known as the Zoe.
STAN: You named a piece of cheese after Not just one piece. The whole line. This will forever in history be known as the Zoe.
ZOE: You named a piece of cheese after Not just one piece. The whole line. This will forever in history be known as the Zoe.
STAN: Not just one piece. The whole line. This will forever in history be known as the Zoe.
ZOE: How do you know?
STAN: Because it's going to be fantastic. Sweet and sassy and very complex. Why do you think I'm calling it No one's ever named a piece of cheese after me before.
ZOE: No one's ever named a piece of cheese after me before.
STAN: You're kind of hard to read right now. You're either seriously flattered or totally repulsed.
ZOE: I want to kiss you right now, but it really smells like cheese in
ZOE: ( under her breath ) You're such a douchebag.
STAN: Zoe shakes her head and then melts into him.
STAN: That was amazing. I mean, like, totally and exceptionally, over-the- top, amazing.
ZOE: There's something I really have to tell you.
STAN: There's something I really have to tell you.
ZOE: There's something I really have to tell you.
STAN: There's something I have to tell you, too.
ZOE: We're not going to say the same Well, let me go, because this is really embarrassing, and I just have to say it.
STAN: Well, let me go, because this is really embarrassing, and I just have to say it.
ZOE: I've dated a lot of women. I mean, not tons, but a lot. And, the thing is, I've never.been in love before. I've never even told anyone I love them before. Because I just never felt it. But from the day we met, from the first time our backs accidentally touched in the subway, I feel this, this. Maybe this is too much to say right now, but.I love you, Zoe. I really do.
STAN: I've dated a lot of women. I mean, not tons, but a lot. And, the thing is, I've never.been in love before. I've never even told anyone I love them before. Because I just never felt it. But from the day we met, from the first time our backs accidentally touched in the subway, I feel this, this. Maybe this is too much to say right now, but.I love you, Zoe. I really do.
STAN: He looks at her. Sees the tears in her eyes.
ZOE: It's not.
STAN: Sure it is.
ZOE: I'm pregnant.
STAN: Uh, I'm pretty sure it doesn't happen that fast.
ZOE: I just found out.
STAN: Pregnant? As in you're going to have a baby?
ZOE: I know. It's hard to explain.
STAN: Well, who's it?
ZOE: I don't know.
STAN: I don't know who the father is. I kind of know him. I just don't know his name exactly. It was sort of anonymous.
ZOE: I don't know who the father is. I kind of know him. I just don't know his name exactly. It was sort of anonymous.
STAN: He's a donor. From a sperm bank.
ZOE: He's a donor. From a sperm bank.
STAN: Seriously, what the fuck are you talking about? Sperm bank? What?
ZOE: I know, this is so fucked up.
STAN: When did all of this happen?
ZOE: The day we met. That same day. And I didn't tell you because I didn't think there was any way I could be pregnant.
STAN: Because supposedly with frozen sperm it takes a few tries and.
ZOE: Because supposedly with frozen sperm it takes a few tries and.
STAN: No, why would you do this?
ZOE: Because I wanted a baby. And I'm almost forty, and I never met the right guy. I was afraid if I waited any longer it would all pass me by, and I'd miss my chance.
STAN: I just told you I loved you.
ZOE: Well..do you not now?
STAN: You're pregnant.
ZOE: Don't say it like that.
STAN: You're pregnant.
ZOE: Yes. I'm pregnant. I'm pregnant!
STAN: I tell you I'm in love with you and you tell me your pregnant with some stranger's child?
ZOE: Don't say it like that. You make it sound dirty.
STAN: I'm sorry. I.I'm stunned. I don't know what to say. What the fuck am I supposed to say?! This is great fucking news? Congratulations?! Why did you wait so long to tell me?
ZOE: Because I'm freaking out, okay! I didn't know what to do. I made this big decision to do this and then I met you
STAN: Well, what am I supposed to do now? This isn't how it was supposed to be. This isn't what
ZOE: I'm sorry. I'm sorry, okay? Life isn't perfect. It's not all neat and tidy like your perfect family and your perfect farm and your bluegrass band. It's messy. It's fucked up. This is real life, okay? I'm sorry to break it to
STAN: Sorry? What's sorry going to do?
JOAN: Oh, I thought you were in your room. Sorry. Everything okay?
STAN: She's pregnant.
JOAN: Oh, dear God.
ZOE: I don't know what to say.
MONA: Come here.
DR. HARRIS: Congratulations! What luck to get pregnant on the first try, huh? And with frozen sperm, too. So, how are we feeling?
ZOE: ( unconvincing ) You sure about that?
DR. HARRIS: You sure about that?
ZOE: It's been hard. I don't know if I was really prepared for this.
DR. HARRIS: Well, your hormones aren't helping, and going through this without a partner must be difficult.
ZOE: That's it? That's.my baby?
DR. HARRIS: Everything's just. Wait, a minute.
ZOE: What? Wait a minute, what?
DR. HARRIS: Well.I see another heartbeat.
ZOE: ( freaking out ) It has two hearts?
DR. HARRIS: No.but you have two babies.
CAROL: Twins! That's fantastic!
LORI: Why are you crying? That's so Yup. That's me. Lucky, lucky, me.
ZOE: Yup. That's me. Lucky, lucky, me.
CAROL: Are you okay? Is it a financial concern? There are many programs
ZOE: No. I'm fairly loaded, actually. Used to work for Google. I'm sorry. This is hard for me. I don't know if I can talk about it Take your time. When you feel like sharing, we're here for you. We're all sisters here. Let's give Zoe some space. When she's ready to talk, we're ready to listen. Deep, cleansing breaths,
CAROL: Take your time. When you feel like sharing, we're here for you. We're all sisters here. Let's give Zoe some space. When she's ready to talk, we're ready to listen. Deep, cleansing breaths,
TABITHA: I'm having a hard time. Luca keeps asking why he doesn't have a daddy, and I just don't know what
ZOE: ( blurting out ) There's this guy. His name is Stan. And he's fantastic.
CAROL: I knew it!
TABITHA: Uh.wasn't I just speaking?
CAROL: I knew you were with that guy!
SARA: What guy?
LORI: Zoe, this group is called Single Mother's By Choice.
ZOE: I know. I'm sorry
TABITHA: Um, excuse me. What about Luca? He's been really, really sad.
ZOE: ( floodgates opening ) Have you ever met a guy and you get butterflies and you think this is the kind of man who could take care of me forever? The kind of guy who makes you re-examine everything? Like, maybe I can be a stay-at-home mom and be barefoot and pregnant.
ZOE: Carol, thank you. This has been really helpful. Just getting it all out and being with other women I'm going to have to ask you not to come back.
CAROL: I'm going to have to ask you not to come back.
ZOE: What? Why?
CAROL: I don't think we can help you, and, quite frankly, you're against everything we stand for.
ZOE: But, I thought we were all sisters.
CAROL: No. Not you. Do you know how long it took me to conceive? Five years. I had three miscarriages and spent every last dime on in-vitro. And Dana? The woman with the short hair?
ZOE: Which one?
CAROL: The one with the really short hair?
ZOE: Yeah, that doesn't really narrow it down much.
CAROL: She just flew to Memphis to watch her baby being born. Seconds after the birth, the birth mother changed her mind and refused to give it up.
ZOE: ( after a beat ) You're right.
CAROL: I like you, Zoe. We all like you. But you kind of need to figure out where you are.
NANA: That man is obsessed with my ass.
ZOE: I know. It's kind of upsetting.
NANA: He wants to take me on a cruise so that we can finally tie the knot. But, I don't know. What's the You've been engaged for nine years.
ZOE: You've been engaged for nine years.
NANA: No reason to rush into anything.
ZOE: You must really love him, huh?
NANA: You must really love him, huh?
ZOE: I guess I do.
NANA: Honey, I'm sure he's wonderful, and I'm sure he loves you, too. But, you have put him in a really awkward position. Having a baby is a big adjustment for any couple. And you're not married. And he's not the father. And you've only been together a little while. And now you're having twins. And
ZOE: Please stop.
NANA: I'm just saying, if he actually wanted to stay with you right now, he'd be the greatest man in the world, and, quite frankly, I don't think any man is that great.
JOAN: You know, people thought we were crazy when we bought this farm.
STAN: Having a baby with someone I barely know, someone else's baby.it's just not how I pictured it.
JOAN: I used to work on Wall Street. Now I wear boots covered in goat shit. This isn't how I pictured it, either. But guess what.I'm
LORI: Make sure you put your numbers down. I want to have everyone's number handy in case I go into labor early.
ZOE: Hi, guys.
CAROL: Hi, Zoe.
ZOE: I just wanted to apologize. I'm sorry I got into a relationship and wasn't honest with you guys, and I'm sorry I interrupted you, Tabitha. I hope Luca is doing And I've thought a lot about what you said, about how lucky I am. I got into this whole situation because I wanted to have a baby. And, somehow, I lost sight of that. Anyway, I need partners in this, and I hope you'll take me back.
TABITHA: ( to Carol ) And I've thought a lot about what you said, about how lucky I am. I got into this whole situation because I wanted to have a baby. And, somehow, I lost sight of that. ( then ) Anyway, I need partners in this, and I hope you'll take me back.
ZOE: ( to Carol ) And I've thought a lot about what you said, about how lucky I am. I got into this whole situation because I wanted to have a baby. And, somehow, I lost sight of that. ( then ) Anyway, I need partners in this, and I hope you'll take me back.
LORI: It's a phone tree. I'm due next month, but my midwife thinks I may go sooner. I want everyone to be there. Are you in?
ZOE: I'm in.
ZOE: TWIN TODDLERS
WOMAN: TWIN TODDLERS
TWIN TODDLERS: Zoe walks on. She sees her reflection in a store window and smiles. She looks like an actual pregnant person now. As she is walking and smiling to herself, we hear a familiar Her P.O.V. Stan appears next to her in the reflection. For a brief second, they look like a family. Zoe turns. They both stop. Unsure of whether to hug or what. They just stand there.
STAN: Her P.O.V. Stan appears next to her in the reflection. For a brief second, they look like a family. Zoe turns. They both stop. Unsure of whether to hug or what. They just stand there.
ZOE: You said that already.
STAN: You said that already.
ZOE: You said that already.
STAN: You.look great.
ZOE: A long silence.
STAN: A long silence.
ZOE: You have a beard.
STAN: Yeah, it's awful isn't it.
ZOE: Don't lie. Did I tell you how pretty you look?
STAN: Don't lie. Did I tell you how pretty you look?
ZOE: I miss you, too.
STAN: This whole time we've been apart, I've been trying to figure out what it is about you that I love so much. And I think that it's that a lot of people talk about doing things, but you actually do them. You're really kind of daring. How you quit your job and took over a pet store all because some asshole sold you a lame dog. You came and found me at the Farmer's Market even though the night before I acted like a total stalker.
ZOE: There's something I need to tell It's big. And you're allowed to take all of this back when I tell It's not just one baby..I'm having twins.
STAN: It's big. And you're allowed to take all of this back when I tell It's not just one baby..I'm having twins.
ZOE: It's big. And you're allowed to take all of this back when I tell It's not just one baby..I'm having twins.
STAN: It's not just one baby..I'm having twins.
ZOE: It's not just one baby..I'm having twins.
STAN: This is insane.
STAN: Do you feel any kicking?
ZOE: What does it feel like?
STAN: What does it feel like?
ZOE: Like butterflies.
STAN: Yeah. I'm really sure.
ZOE: Are you okay?
STAN: They're so.perfect. They look like real babies.
DR. HARRIS: Would you like to know the sexes?
ZOE: Yes. Tell us.
DR. HARRIS: You're having two healthy little
STAN: Two girls?
ZOE: Two girls.
DR. HARRIS: EXT. MADISON AVENUE - DAY Stan and Zoe walk down Madison Avenue. All of the other NEW YORKERS are on some kind of mission shopping, rushing to meetings, or fighting for cabs. But Zoe and Stan just walk slowly hand-in-hand. Every so often looking at each other and just smiling or laughing. Then, suddenly, Stan picks her up in the middle of the A WOMAN with a BABY in a Baby Bjorn passes by. Stan smiles. Now he's part of this exclusive club.
STAN: Two girls!
WOMAN: INT. UNION SQUARE CAFE - NIGHT We PAN past several small plates of food on a table. A chef tells us what delectable items we are looking at.
CHEF: Here we have a yellowtail sashimi with ponzu sauce and pea shoots. This is carpaccio with shaved white truffles. And, finally, an heirloom tomato salad with fresh Buratta flown in from Italy this Thanks, Sam. It looks incredible.
STAN: Thanks, Sam. It looks incredible.
ZOE: I can't eat any of this.
STAN: Why not?
ZOE: ( pointing to each dish ) Raw. Raw. Unpasteurized. ( re: champagne ) Let me get Sam back. He'll make you anything you want.
STAN: Let me get Sam back. He'll make you anything you want.
ZOE: I don't want to hurt his feelings. You go ahead. I'm fine.
STAN: Well, what are you going to eat?
CASHIER: Big Mac, Quarter Pounder with cheese, four large fries, and a six piece chicken McNuggets?
ZOE: Make that an eight, no, ten-piece You'll have some, right?
STAN: ( back to the cashier ) Ten-piece. Someone will eat them.
ZOE: ( back to the cashier ) Ten-piece. Someone will eat them.
ZOE: ( re: book ) Have you gotten to page 79 yet?
STAN: No. I stopped reading when you ripped out one of my pages and used it as a napkin.
ZOE: Says here many women in the second trimester experience an increased sexual appetite.
STAN: Zoe smiles and then slowly triple dunks another McNugget. She takes a seductive bite.
ZOE: Yeah. I'm coming on to you.
STAN: You have chicken in your hair.
MONA: Why are you even working out? This is the one time in your life you're allowed to let it go.
ZOE: Because look at me. I just keep getting bigger and bigger.
MONA: Well, yeah. That's kind of how it I'm afraid I'm going to scare him away. I'm like one of those giant bouncy castles. Soon I'm going to take over the whole back yard.
ZOE: I'm afraid I'm going to scare him away. I'm like one of those giant bouncy castles. Soon I'm going to take over the whole back yard.
MONA: Come on. He loves you for you.
ZOE: I'm just getting kind of freaked out by everything. He asked me to go to this wedding with him. What kind of first impression am I going to make on all of his friends?
MONA: Well, you're knocked up with some stranger's twins. So, already you're not exactly.
ZOE: Not helping.
MONA: Do you have anything to wear at Everything okay in there?
STAN: Everything okay in there?
STAN: Honey, whatever you wear is fine.
STAN: You always look great. I've never seen you not look great.
ZOE: Really? You think?
STAN: Do you have a shawl or something?
STAN: You look smokin'.
ZOE: Thanks, honey.
STAN: Let's go. We're super late.
ZOE: Why don't you sort of go in.head first and then turn around.
STAN: Why don't you sort of go in.head first and then turn around.
ZOE: Shut up and push me.
STAN: Push you?
ZOE: Just do it.
ZOE: I hate everyone.
ZOE: Do you think he's telling everyone why I didn't go? I'm too much of a fat-ass walrus to go to the You're not a fat ass walrus. You're pregnant.
BOBBY: You're not a fat ass walrus. You're pregnant.
ZOE: I don't know. I'm just so emotional lately. It's the You can't help it. Being pregnant sucks. You're emotional, and irrational, and you get back fat.
BOBBY: You can't help it. Being pregnant sucks. You're emotional, and irrational, and you get back fat.
ZOE: I have back fat?
BOBBY: No. I'm just kidding. Okay, yes. You have back fat.
ZOE: How's Stan going to stay with me through this? I'm disgusting.
BOBBY: We'll go shopping tomorrow. We'll get some hip maternity clothes. whatever that means.
ZOE: Look at me, Bobby.
BOBBY: ( pinching back fat ) Look at me. What do you see?
ZOE: ( pinching back fat ) Look at me. What do you see?
BOBBY: I see the most amazingly wonderful person I know.
OLIVIA: Why aren't you dancing?
STAN: I'm just about to go. It's late.
OLIVIA: Come on, one dance.
STAN: I have a girlfriend, Olivia.
OLIVIA: Never stopped you before.
STAN: It's serious this time.
ZOE: How was it?
STAN: Stan gets in bed next to her. Zoe scoots into him.
ZOE: Stan gets in bed next to her. Zoe scoots into him.
STAN: knew your old ass.
ZOE: knew your old ass.
STAN: knew your old ass.
ZOE: like to eat and what's just a craving, or when you start laughing hysterically and then crying and you say, this isn't me, if that's true because I don't really know the real you. All I know is the pregnant you.
STAN: like to eat and what's just a craving, or when you start laughing hysterically and then crying and you say, this isn't me, if that's true because I don't really know the real you. All I know is the pregnant you.
ZOE: time? Is that you? Or is that pregnant you?
STAN: time? Is that you? Or is that pregnant you?
ZOE: ( lying ) That's me.
STAN: you be?
ZOE: INT. ZOE'S BEDROOM - LATER The clock by the bed says 2:30 a.m. Stan is snoring slightly. Nuts is on the pillow beside him. Zoe's side is INT. ZOE'S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS Zoe sits on the floor of the living room sifting through a box of photographs. We FOLLOW her back into the bedroom and onto the bed. As Stan slowly opens his eyes, she holds up a photograph. His P.O.V. It's a picture of a woman's ass.
STAN: INT. ZOE'S BEDROOM - LATER The clock by the bed says 2:30 a.m. Stan is snoring slightly. Nuts is on the pillow beside him. Zoe's side is INT. ZOE'S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS Zoe sits on the floor of the living room sifting through a box of photographs. We FOLLOW her back into the bedroom and onto the bed. As Stan slowly opens his eyes, she holds up a photograph. His P.O.V. It's a picture of a woman's ass.
ZOE: This is my old ass.
STAN: Why do you have a picture of your My college boyfriend took it. So, I guess in fairness, my ass doesn't look exactly like this anymore, but it's pretty close. It's held up.
ZOE: My college boyfriend took it. So, I guess in fairness, my ass doesn't look exactly like this anymore, but it's pretty close. It's held up.
STAN: It's a nice ass.
ZOE: You said you don't know the real me, so I thought I'd show you. This is me in seventh grade.
STAN: I know.
ZOE: I know.
STAN: You look like Anthony Michael Hall.
ZOE: This period, as horrible as it was, made me who I am. I think every person should go through a hideously ugly phase. It builds It also taught me that I should never, under any circumstances, have short hair and a perm again.
STAN: Fifth place.
ZOE: But I still look super happy, right? That's all because of Nana. Whatever I did, she thought it was the best.
STAN: Why are you dressed like that?
ZOE: Halloween. We were supposed to be a traffic light but Mona bagged out at the last minute and so Bobby and I just look like idiots. That's typical Mona, by the way.
STAN: You look just like her.
ZOE: This is the last picture of her that I have. She lived for a few more years, but we never took any pictures because she didn't want us to remember her like that. I was eight when she died.
STAN: I.can't imagine.
ZOE: She had a great laugh. And really soft hands. She used to rub my back before I went to sleep.
STAN: Do you have any pictures of your
ZOE: My mother was in a coma for two years before the end. That's when my dad left her.
STAN: So.that's when he died. To us, God, Zoe. I'm so sorry.
ZOE: So.that's when he died. To us, God, Zoe. I'm so sorry.
STAN: God, Zoe. I'm so sorry.
ZOE: ( after a beat ) It's okay. It was an important lesson. That's when I realized that nothing lasts forever.
STAN: Things can last forever, you know.
ZOE: Not for me they can't.
STAN: I'm confused. Why did you say you would come witness this birth in the first place?
ZOE: I don't know. Seemed like a good idea at the time. I was trying to get back in their good graces. Go home. I'll meet you there. I don't want them to see you anyway.
STAN: It's four in the morning. I'm not letting you walk home alone.
ZOE: Fine. I'll just pop in, show my face and leave. Ten minutes, tops.
CAROL: Zoe, it's so nice of you to come, especially at this crazy hour.
LORI: You're really one of us now.
ZOE: Are you sure you're in labor? You're so calm.
LORI: Oh, I'm sure.
ZOE: Well, I just wanted to come and say a quick hi and good luck.
LORI: You're not staying?
CAROL: You have to stay. Lori wants us all to be together for this.
ZOE: Well, I really want to be here but.um, the truth is.actually I've been wanting to tell you guys for a while but, the truth is.
CAROL: ( whispering ) She's having a contraction.
LORI: Okay. What was it you were saying?
ZOE: I'm back with Stan.
LORI: Stan who?
CAROL: The farmer?
ZOE: Actually, he makes cheese. He named a cheese after me. Isn't that romantic? Sort of? Well, anyway, I'm not technically a single mother by choice anymore. So, if you want me to leave right now, I totally understand. I'll just walk out the door and
LORI: No, I really want you to stay.
ZOE: ( bummed ) Listen, Zoe, if you're happy, we're happy. We'd love to meet him. Bring him to group any time.
CAROL: Listen, Zoe, if you're happy, we're happy. We'd love to meet him. Bring him to group any time.
ZOE: Well, actually, he's downstairs, so I should probably get back to
LORI: Great. Invite him up.
ZOE: Oh, no, no, no.
LORI: I'm not shy. I've been through this before. It's quite beautiful,
STAN: Excuse me?
ZOE: Just a few minutes.
STAN: I don't know, Zoe.
ZOE: You have to come up. They begged me. And truthfully, I'm kind of scared of them. Please?
STAN: This is weird.
ZOE: Good brownies, though. This one has peanut butter in it. Come on everybody, it's time. She's getting into the water.
CAROL: Come on everybody, it's time. She's getting into the water.
STAN: The what?
CAROL: Oh, it's a water birth. Didn't Zoe tell you?
STAN: What's a water birth?
ZOE: I don't know. But just so we're clear, this. Is not the real me.
STAN: I'll wait here.
CAROL: ( eyes wide ) Wow. Wow. Wow.
ZOE: ( eyes wide ) Wow. Wow. Wow.
CAROL: I know. It's amazing how the body can open up like that.
ZOE: I'm just going to get some air. I'm feeling a little.
LORI: Don't move, Zoe, you're my focal
MIDWIFE: Push, Lori. Push.
CAROL: You can't leave. You're her focal Can't she use someone else?
ZOE: Can't she use someone else?
CAROL: She's in labor. You want to argue with her now?
CAROL: Lori lets out a SCREAM as Tabitha and the MIDWIFE pull her legs back. Zoe watches with both hands over her mouth.
ZOE: Oh, Jesus. What is.that?
CAROL: Sssshh. It's perfectly natural. Sometimes the bowels just let go.
LORI: ( yelling ) Don't move, Zoe, I need you! You're my focal point.
ZOE: What does that even mean?
LORI: I need to turn over. Please!
JESSIE: Do it, Lori. We're here for you. We're all here for you.
CAROL: ( excited ) Here comes the head.
JESSIE: We can see the head, Lori.
CAROL: There's so much hair!
ZOE: ( woozy, afraid ) I don't think that's the baby's I want to see the head. Get me a mirror. It's in the bedroom.
LORI: I want to see the head. Get me a mirror. It's in the bedroom.
ZOE: I'll get it.
LORI: GOD DAMN IT ZOE, DON'T MOVE!!!!
STAN: Excuse me. Hello. I'm Stan. Excuse me. Hi. I'm Stan.
LORI: Look at all that wet, curly hair.
STAN: ( freaking out ) Let's get the hell out of here.
ZOE: I can't. I'm her focal point.
STAN: What does that mean?
ZOE: I don't know.
STAN: Are you okay?
ZOE: I don't know. Why am I wet?
STAN: ( afraid ) I think it's the placenta.
ZOE: Wow. We really shouldn't have seen I did mention that I barely know those people, right?
STAN: I did mention that I barely know those people, right?
ZOE: I did mention that I barely know those people, right?
STAN: Like forty times.
ZOE: I feel the need to say it again.
STAN: It won't be like that for us.
ZOE: How do you know?
STAN: Well, for starters, you wax.
OLIVIA: Oh, hi.
STAN: ( awkward beat, then ) You remember Zoe.
OLIVIA: Right, hi.
ZOE: What is that supposed to mean?
OLIVIA: It's nothing.
STAN: I told you it was serious.
ZOE: ( interrupting ) What the hell does, "sorry about last night" mean?
OLIVIA: It's stupid. I was drunk and.
STAN: It was nothing.
ZOE: What was nothing?
OLIVIA: You're having a baby? I didn't know you'd been together that long.
STAN: Well, they're not mine.but, yeah, we're having a baby. Two actually.
STAN: Nothing happened.
ZOE: Get away from me.
STAN: Nothing happened!
ZOE: You said, "they're not mine."
STAN: I didn't mean to say it.
ZOE: How could you say that?
STAN: I don't know. I was flustered.
ZOE: I'm sorry, I'm not exactly thinking straight. I've been up all night watching Orca give birth!
STAN: I'm sorry, I'm not exactly thinking straight. I've been up all night watching Orca give birth!
ZOE: ( incredulous ) "They're not mine?"
STAN: ( at a loss ) Well, I mean.technically, they're
ZOE: You know, all this time you're trying to figure out who the real me is, but who the fuck are you?
STAN: She runs to a nearby cab and slams the door.
MONA: Do you really think something happened with the berry girl? They both said nothing happened.
ZOE: Well, are they going to come out and tell me? And that's not even the point. He said, the babies weren't his. And if he says that, he thinks that. And if he thinks that, he's not really committed.
MONA: So, now you run?
ZOE: Why should I stick around for the end of the story when I know what it's going to be?
MONA: Do you know the end of the story? Can't you just give him the benefit of the doubt? He seems like such a good guy.
ZOE: You haven't even met him.
MONA: Yeah, and don't think I don't know the reason for that. You were never going to see this through, Zoe. Never. It was doomed before it began. Just like all of your relationships. You get out before you get hurt.
ZOE: You don't think I'm hurt right now?
MONA: Every man is not your father. When are you going to realize that?
ZOE: You don't know what you're talking I've known you for thirty years. I know you don't trust people. You and your grandmother, both. She's been engaged to Arthur for how long Leave Nana out of this.
MONA: I've known you for thirty years. I know you don't trust people. You and your grandmother, both. She's been engaged to Arthur for how long Leave Nana out of this.
ZOE: Leave Nana out of this.
MONA: She's never going to marry him. Just like you'd never marry Stan. No wonder you ended up with a sperm donor. He'll never let you down. It's your ideal boyfriend.
ZOE: I used a donor because I wanted a I'm sorry. I went too far.
MONA: I'm sorry. I went too far.
ZOE: Because I wanted to have a family. Because Nana is the only one I've got and she's eighty-four years old. And then it will just be me. So, yeah, you went a little too
ZOE: Guess it's just you and me again.
ZOE: It's Thursday. We have a doctor's There is no "we", Stan.
STAN: It's Thursday. We have a doctor's There is no "we", Stan.
ZOE: There is no "we", Stan.
STAN: Come on, I didn't mean to say it, and that's not how I feel.
ZOE: I made a mistake trusting you.
STAN: Don't say that. That's not true.
ZOE: You're not good for me. You made me think I needed you, and I don't.
STAN: So that's it? Because of one stupid, asinine thing that I said, it's all over? This is how it Yes. This is how it ends. I don't know why you're so surprised. I told you, nothing lasts forever.
ZOE: Yes. This is how it ends. I don't know why you're so surprised. I told you, nothing lasts forever.
DR. HARRIS: Things look great.
ZOE: DR. HARRIS
DR. HARRIS: So, I'll see you back in two weeks, and we'll start checking to see if the babies are dropping.
ZOE: It's hard to believe we're in the home stretch.
DR. HARRIS: Now's the time I start discussing a birthing plan with my patients. Do you want me to wait until next time when Stan's here?
ZOE: Oh. Uh, no. He won't be here.
DR. HARRIS: He's out of town or something?
ZOE: No. He's just.out.
DR. HARRIS: Oh. I'm sorry to hear that.
ZOE: It's back to just you and me now. We've come full circle.
DR. HARRIS: Well, don't you want anyone with you in the delivery room? You know, like a birthing partner?
NANA: Yeah. Is that okay?
ZOE: Yeah. Is that okay?
NANA: Of course.
ZOE: Good. `Cause you're all I've got.
NANA: What do I have to do?
ZOE: I don't know. It will be a c-section, so, basically, just stand there and try not to faint.
NANA: I can do that.
ZOE: Thanks, Nana. It means a lot to me that you'll be there.
NANA: Are you kidding me? I've been waiting my whole life for this.
ZOE: Holy shit, is he dead?
NANA: How can you tell?
ZOE: How can you tell?
NANA: He's been like that all morning. I wore him out last night.
ZOE: Wow. I did not need to know that.
NANA: We were celebrating. We finally set a date.
ZOE: Excuse me?
NANA: So, we'll put the band here and the dance floor right here.
ZOE: I can't believe you're getting married. What made you change your All of a sudden it just hit me, what am I waiting for? I love him. He loves me. What am I so afraid Wow. This is.really big news.
NANA: All of a sudden it just hit me, what am I waiting for? I love him. He loves me. What am I so afraid Wow. This is.really big news.
ZOE: Wow. This is.really big news.
NANA: You don't seem happy.
ZOE: No, I am. It's just.it just makes my situation seem all the more tragic. You're getting married and here I am.
NANA: Don't worry. I'm fine. I'm really happy for you.
ZOE: Don't worry. I'm fine. I'm really happy for you.
NANA: I'm worried about you, honey.
ZOE: I'm fine.
NANA: I just don't want you to make the same mistakes I made. I've been alone for over thirty years now, and that's too long. Sometimes in life you have to forgive and move Are you talking about my father or Both, baby.
ZOE: Are you talking about my father or Both, baby.
NANA: Both, baby.
BOBBY: ( singing ) I see trees of green, red roses too. I see them bloom for me and
MONA: This song always makes me cry.
ZOE: Me, too.
MONA: Is it happy or sad? The words are happy but the song is so sad.
ZOE: I guess it's both. Happy and sad.
BOBBY: ( singing ) I see skies of blue and clouds of white. The bright blessed day, the dark and sacred night.
MONA: I'm sorry about the things I said.
ZOE: I know.
MONA: It was really shitty of me.
ZOE: It was. Especially because you were right.
BOBBY: ( singing ) And I think to myself.what a wonderful world.
ZOE: I don't want to be alone forever, Then don't be.
MONA: Then don't be.
CUSTOMER: Is this new? The Zoe?
STAN: Yeah. This is the first week it's been out.
CUSTOMER: Can I have a sample? What's it It's.very stubborn, overly suspicious and distrustful of men.
STAN: It's.very stubborn, overly suspicious and distrustful of men.
CUSTOMER: INT. SHADYBROOK REC ROOM - LATER Bobby pulls Zoe onto the dance floor.
BOBBY: Come on, you old maid.
ZOE: Dance with me. One dance.
BOBBY: Dance with me. One dance.
ZOE: Forget it.
BOBBY: Fine. But it doesn't mean that I won't dance with you.
ZOE: Bobby starts dancing. But really dancing. Justin Timberlake style. Zoe smiles at the absurdity and then tries to walk away. But Bobby won't let her escape. He blocks her path and keeps dancing. This time turning around and shaking his ass triple-time, like Beyonce.
BOBBY: Go away, you freak.
ZOE: Go away, you freak.
BOBBY: Smack it, Bitch.
OLD MAN: Damn it. Not again. Nope. Not me.
ZOE: I think my water just broke.
ZOE: I'll drive.
NANA: You're in labor. You can't drive.
ARTHUR: I'll drive.
NANA: You don't have a car or a license. You drive.
BOBBY: We're in Queens. I don't even know what side of the road they drive on Will someone please just drive me to the fucking hospital?
ZOE: Will someone please just drive me to the fucking hospital?
MONA: This was my surprise for after the wedding, but let's hit it.
BOBBY: This works.
NANA: Are you okay? Remember to breathe. Breathe in, breathe out, breathe
MONA: Hee-hee, hoo-hoo, hee-hee.
NANA: ( joining in ) Hoo-hoo. Hee-hee.
ZOE: Please stop. It's getting really breathy in here. I'm fine.
BOBBY: What about me? I have amniotic fluid on my Gucci tux.
ARTHUR: Who needs a drink?
NANA: ( whispering ) I don't know if I can do this.
BOBBY: I don't know if I can do this.
NANA: I don't know if I can do this.
BOBBY: I can't go in with her.
NANA: I can't go in with her.
BOBBY: Well, I certainly can't do it. I don't do vaginas. Don't look at me.
ARTHUR: Don't look at me.
NANA: Help me, Bobby.
BOBBY: Nana, pull yourself together. This is the biggest moment of Zoe's life, and you can't let her down. I'd slap you right now, but I'm afraid your teeth would fly out.
ZOE: Hee-hee, hoo-hoo, hee-hee, hoo-hee. Bobby enters, all sweetness and light.
BOBBY: Hey, girl. How ya doing?
ZOE: ( smiles, then ) So, I really don't want you to worry, but Nana just passed out at the nurse's station and is now down in the ER getting stitches.
BOBBY: ( smiles, then ) So, I really don't want you to worry, but Nana just passed out at the nurse's station and is now down in the ER getting stitches.
ZOE: Everything's under control. Good thing we're at the hospital, right?
BOBBY: Everything's under control. Good thing we're at the hospital, right?
ZOE: Where is she?
BOBBY: Get back in bed. All is well. Arthur's with her. Now, on to bigger and better.who do you want to be your birthing partner? Your choices are me or Mona.
ZOE: I don't know.
BOBBY: We're going to get through this, okay? You just have to really think about it. Who do you want with you in the delivery room?
ZOE: INT. TAXI - MOMENTS LATER Zoe jumps in. The cabbie looks at her in the rearview mirror
CABBIE: You're not an escaped mental patient, are you?
ZOE: Kind of.
ZOE: Ow. Son of a bitch, that hurts.
OLIVIA: Are you okay? Are you in labor?
ZOE: Fuck off.
ZOE: Fred turns around and sees Zoe running. All belly and boobs bouncing towards him. Her gown starting falling off.
FRED: Whoa. I've had nightmares that started like this.
ZOE: Stan turns.
STAN: Are you okay? Don't run!
ZOE: Are you okay? Don't run!
STAN: Are you okay? Don't run!
ZOE: I can't help it!
STAN: Are you all right?
ZOE: ( panting ) Great. I'm great.
STAN: Why are you in a hospital gown?
ZOE: I'm in labor.
STAN: What? What the hell are you doing It's you.
ZOE: It's you.
STAN: Nana's my birthing partner, but she passed out and needed stitches, and Bobby asked me who I most wanted with me, and.it's you. It's only I don't want to be alone anymore. I love you. You don't know how much I love you.
ZOE: Nana's my birthing partner, but she passed out and needed stitches, and Bobby asked me who I most wanted with me, and.it's you. It's only I don't want to be alone anymore. I love you. You don't know how much I love you.
STAN: I've been in love with you since the moment you stole my cab.
ZOE: Hee-hee, hoo-hoo, it was my cab, hee-hee, hoo-hoo.
STAN: I'm sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. I just love you. I love you so much. Let's get the hell out of here.
ZOE: Yeah. I think I really need to go to the hospital now.
STAN: Let's go have our babies.
WOMAN: INT. GRAY'S PAPAYA HOT DOGS - DAY They are now at the counter with hot dogs in front of them.
ZOE: INT. GRAY'S PAPAYA HOT DOGS - DAY They are now at the counter with hot dogs in front of them.
STAN: INT. GRAY'S PAPAYA HOT DOGS - DAY They are now at the counter with hot dogs in front of them.
ZOE: Who knew you were such a romantic.
STAN: Well, it's the anniversary of our first date. Where else would I take you?
ZOE: Incredible. Wouldn't change a thing. Well, except for the part where you dumped me.
STAN: And the part where you dumped me. Girls.Mommy and Daddy were
ZOE: ( baby-talk ) Yes, we were. Yes, we were.
STAN: The first time we held hands was in here. It started out as a high- five, but then I strategically turned into a hand-hold.
ZOE: How do you remember that?
STAN: We both agreed that we were totally sick of weddings and hated when people wrote their own vows.
ZOE: That's right. I remember that.
STAN: So.I hope you won't hold it against me.
ZOE: Nana and Arthur come through the door smiling. Zoe looks at them, confused.
STAN: I promise to love you even though you still eat chicken McNuggets in bed. I promise to name cheeses after all of our children no matter how embarrassed they are by it. I promise to always check out your ass when you walk away, and I promise to love you more tomorrow than I do today, which doesn't even seem impossible.
THE END: Writers : Kate Angelo
