BAD BOYS: Revised Draft DOUG RICHARDSON
DOUG RICHARDSON: Property of: Don Simpson/Jerry Bruckheimer Films REVISED DRAFT ( Blue ) 500 S. Bunea Vista St. Burbank, CA 91521 June 20, 1994
BAD BOYS: FADE IN: 1 EXT. MIAMI LANDSCAPE - NIGHT 1 The sun might be down, but the city is baking. Waves of heat ascend into the sky while an unmarked van navigates ACROSS the SCREEN.
FOUCHET: What's taking so long back there?
REAR: Where the rest of the gang waits. NOAH, KUNI, FERGUSON, and CASPER. All dressed in black like Fouchet, except for ANDY. He stands and shows off his Miami PD uniform. His English is poor, yet he's got a big, happy-to-be- along grin on his face.
ANDY: How do I look? Like the real thing, yeah?
FOUCHET: Step back and lemme get a good look at you.
FOUCHET: Tell me again about your assignment, Andrew?
ANDY: I'm the decoy.
FOUCHET: Right you are.
FOUCHET: Please help! I just saw a policeman shot! Send help. Hurry! I'm at the corner of.
LOWREY: Good evening. I'm Mike
BURNETT: And I'm Marcus.
LOWREY: We're lookin' for a couple of our Latin friends who checked in a little while ago. You might remember them?
BURNETT: No chest hair. And packin'.
DESK MANAGER: I'm sorry. But our guest list is Oh, didn't they say? There's going to be party! It's
LOWREY: Oh, didn't they say? There's going to be party! It's
BURNETT: Maybe you can come. Get off after you get off? All three of them laugh.
DESK MANAGER: Well, now that you mention it. They were kinda cute. Suite 202.
LOWREY: Police! On the floor! But the dealers split, rolling out of their chairs. One goes left and the other, right.
BURNETT: Burnett stomps the bad guy's instep. The guy buckles. Burnett rolls away and stands in front of a window, just in time to see the angry Dominican heading straight for A9 EXT. COLONY HOTEL - CONTINUOUS ACTION A9 Burnett and the other dealer come crashing out onto the balcony, then over onto an awning, rolling off onto some occupied cafe tables. Patrons scatter. Uniformed cops move in to assist.
BURNETT: ( scraped, bruised, Nice backup.
LOWREY: We TILT UP as POLICE HELICOPTER flies overhead.
FOUCHET: It's time. The team crosses the roof to a huge air conditioning unit. They climb inside, carrying a six-foot-long metal case and what looks like a black scuba tank.
FOUCHET: We're in. Start the video.
FOUCHET: ( into mic ) Where's Deputy Dog?
FOUCHET: Then do him, now!
THE LATINA: Yes. The very same as the one he just saw in bed. What?
LATINA TWIN: Lowrey closes the curtain on her. Frowns at this impossibility. He steps back into the doorway and peers over at his bed. Yep, same face. Twins?
LOWREY: ( shaking his head ) Oh man.
THERESA: Marcus, what are you doing?
BURNETT: We're always saying we should spend more quality time together. Well, I got the time. and you got the quality.
BURNETT: I can remember when we used to do it every morning.
THERESA: That was how we got a three bedroom house filled with little
BURNETT: Been over a week since I've had some quality time!
JILL: Mom, Quincy pushed me.
QUINCY: Uncle Mike showed me that move.
THERESA: Quincy, never-you-mind. And take those things off in the house! Jill, stop with the book and eat your breakfast. Marcus, why do I always have to discipline the kids? You play bad cop for a second. Alongside the kitchen screen door we see Lowrey's PORSCHE ROAR to a stop in the driveway.
BURNETT: Kids, knock it off. or your momma's gonna whoop your butts! Theresa laughs in spite of herself as the kids continue to fight. Into this craziness enters Mike Lowrey.
LOWREY: Ah, family life. Reminds me why I stay single.
LOWREY: Hiya, kids. Mornin', Theresa. Lowrey pecks Theresa on the cheek. She recoils.
THERESA: Don't kiss me, Lowrey. I don't know where those lips were last BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/24/94 PM 11.
QUINCY: Tell us some stories, Uncle Mike. You know, the one about the Don't go tellin' my son about your sleazy sex life?
THERESA: Don't go tellin' my son about your sleazy sex life?
LOWREY: I promise, Theresa. I only tell your husband about my sleazy sex life. The TELEPHONE RINGS.
THERESA: I don't want him knowing about it either! Gives him ideas. Hello? Oh, sure. Which one of them do you want? Lowrey accepts the phone from Theresa and talks.
LOWREY: You're live with Lowrey. 'Scuse me, Captain. I think you mean to say, 'Get the fuck down here, please?' Burnett automatically pulls on his jacket, hugs the children as Lowrey hangs up.
THERESA: Not so fast. You were going to take the kids to school today, remember, hon? I have a job Lowrey rolls his eyes.
DICK: Hey, Marcus. Did you know we got busted into again last night? When are you gonna do something about this?
BURNETT: Hey, Dick. How many times I gotta tell you? I don't work robbery. I'm in Narcotics. Meanwhile, Lowrey's holding the car door open as the kids pile into the jump seat in the back.
LOWREY: Don't get your sticky fingers all over my windows. and keep your feet off the seats, I just had the leather conditioned. The kids ignore him, gleefully continuing to squirm around. Before Burnett can get into the car, Theresa runs out.
THERESA: Marcus. I need you to stop at Save-More on the way home and pick up exactly what's on the list. She hands Burnett a long list.
BURNETT: Oh, baby. Damn. Lowrey shakes his head.
BURNETT: If I'm lyin' I'm dyin'. Her sister came down and posted the girl's bail. And later? Man, talk about special effects.
LOWREY: If I'm lyin' I'm dyin'. Her sister came down and posted the girl's bail. And later? Man, talk about special effects.
BURNETT: What special effects?
LOWREY: Tell you later Mornin', Francine. Where's the smile?
FRANCINE: Evidence room. Howard's waiting for you.
BURNETT: Your kids are lookin' sharp, She smiles.
SANCHEZ: Let's see. There's Sleepy, Grumpy, Sneezy, Happy, Bashful. Now, who could we be missin'?
RUIZ: Could it be. Dopey? Both laugh hysterically, while:
LOWREY: If it ain't the leftovers from Miami Vice. Fashion casualties, lost somewhere in the eighties.
BURNETT: And the women really go for that. Really, they do. As Burnett and Lowrey duck the tape, they note a very groggy O'Fee over in the corner being attended by a paramedic team. He's still out cold. An oh shit look passes between the two partners.
HOWARD: Nice of you to roll in. And nothing particular is going on around here except, maybe, your dope is gone. That's right. The biggest dope bust in the history of this department up and walked out of this locker, along with maybe my job and the two of yours if we don't get the shit back.
BURNETT: This can't be happening.
HOWARD: So here's what we're gonna do. Since it was originally your case, you two guys are on point. Sanchez and Ruiz, you back them up with whatever they need. Groans all around.
LOWREY: So I guess we should start with the C.I.s and the perps from the original case. But hell if I know any dope dealers with the balls to pull this off. They're either dead or in the lock-up pending trial.
BURNETT: How's O'Fee?
HOWARD: Name's Sinclair. Internal Affairs. He's our new proctologist.
SINCLAIR: You see, what's got me confused is, why risk leaving a witness? Why not kill O'Fee instead?
BURNETT: Because maybe this guy knows if you kill a cop the whole department'll get up his ass hard and fast.
SINCLAIR: And who knows that better than anybody else? Cops.
BURNETT: You're not sayin' this was an inside job. Cops wouldn't pull this shit.
SINCLAIR: Not just cops. Narcotic cops. For example, the S.N.D. You've got access. You've got wherewithall. And most importantly, you've got the connections. Who else would know how to unload a hundred million dollars worth of heroin?
LOWREY: Hey, fuck you and your cheap, off- the-rack suit.
HOWARD: Enough. I.A.'s in it and there's nothing we can do about it. If any of this leaks, the shit's gonna hit our biggest fan. Remember him? The mayor? He created us and you can bet your jobs, boys, he'll rip us into little cop pieces. I figure we got seventy-two hours to find the dope and keep our jobs.
LOWREY: Nothing like a little old-fashioned CLOSE ON BURNETT He walks to the center of the room and kneels to those four bolt holes in the floor. He fingers the paraffin filler, then looks above to the air conditioning grate.
BURNETT: What about the air conditioning?
HOWARD: So what about it?
BURNETT: ( to Lowrey ) What do you think?
LOWREY: I think you should go ahead, crawl up and give it a good Why me?
BURNETT: Why me?
LOWREY: For one, it was your idea. Two, while my suit's fresh, you're dressed for the occasion.
BURNETT: Don't say nothin' about my clothes. I paid for these.
LOWREY: And I don't?
BURNETT: Not on a cop's salary.
LOWREY: Yeah. I got some weird track marks in here. Then Burnett notes a manufacturing stamp at the joint. It reads: ORONA AIR CONTITIONING SYSTEMS, INC.
BURNETT: Yeah. I got some weird track marks in here. Then Burnett notes a manufacturing stamp at the joint. It reads: ORONA AIR CONTITIONING SYSTEMS, INC.
HOWARD: Nice and cool up there, Burnett? Comfy? Maybe there's a new career for you in building maintenance.
BURNETT: There's gonna be a lotta cash when the dope hits the street. We want you to put the word out through your bank and hustle the account. You help us, maybe we can see about getting those R.T.C. auditors off your ass.
LOWREY: Listen, Cedras. You and I both know you're the number one importer for the Simona Brothers. And I'm tellin' you there's a buttload of H on the move and someone's gonna wanna stick their dick in it. So it better not be yours. You hear something? You call us. You hear nada? You better get the fuck outta town.
BURNETT: Not a fucking lead. So now that we've done the obvious, we need a shortcut.
LOWREY: Okay. So we talk to Max.
BURNETT: Huh uh. Not this time. I'm tired of you working pussy into everything we do.
LOWREY: You got a better idea?
MAX: Hi, Mike. You come to work-out?
LOWREY: Raincheck, darlin'. Gotta talk. Anyplace we can go?
MAX: Equipment room. Hiya, Marcus. How's your wife?
BURNETT: That's what I thought.
MAX: That's what I thought.
LOWREY: Sorry to come around only when I need something.
MAX: Forget about it. I owe you the rest of my life, Mike. Lowrey just gives her an "oh please" look.
MAX: Don't be lookin' at me like I'm getting all sentimental.
LOWREY: Hey, I didn't open my mouth. Listen, there's some major, major ill shit happening down at the P.D. Lotta heroin involved. There's gonna be a lotta cash involved, too. Gonna be some happy motherfuckers around that wanna party.
MAX: So you want me to check around?
LOWREY: Just make a coupla calls. See what's what. Don't be doin' no wild shit. Just call me if you hear something.
BLACK WOMAN: Who's Max's friend?
BURNETT: A cop.
BLACK WOMAN: Oooh. I love cops. The other girls are suddenly interested, too. Burnett swallows and.
BURNETT: You know? I'm a cop. I shot somebody just last week. Didn't kill him, just shot him in the Stone cold looks from them all. They walk away with Burnett giving a "what did I say" look. Lowrey appears.
LOWREY: You know, that was really smooth. Think you could do that again? Ohh. I'll tell you, when the wife gets meaner, the grass gets greener.
BURNETT: Green ain't the color I was thinkin' of. More of a coco puff. Just real shiny, thick.
BURNETT: Damn! The woman's got fuckin' radar on my ass. Sensed me lookin' at another woman. Bet she wants me to pick up Huggies 'stead of those baby Garanimals that they wear.
LOWREY: I don't think anybody could be that married.
LOWREY: ( complies ) Miami's the perfect town for you, Burnett. You drive like a one- hundred-seven-year-old lady with her turn signal on.
BURNETT: And I plan on living to be old just like 'em. Rubbin' Ben Gay on my joints and everythin'. An old guy passes them even though his car is pulling an Airstream camper behind it. Lowrey can't believe it.
LOWREY: You gonna let every old motherfucker pass you? Or just the ones with big-ass trailers draggin' behind? A-c-c-el-er-ate.
BURNETT: I don't have a death wish like you. I got a family that counts on me. A mortgage to pay. And I'm not sayin' it's me, but most of the guys in the station think you're some rich kid playin' cop.
LOWREY: Who said that? Burnett mumbles an answer.
LOWREY: If somebody's talking about me, I wanna know. Man, I'm so sick of this. I don't apologize for nothing I do. I get up early and take it to the max every day. I'm always the first guy through the door. And the last guy to leave a crime scene. So fuck 'em all. I could give a shit what those boot lickin', brown-nosin', ass kissin' motherfuckers think of Mike Lowrey. What can Burnett say to all that, but.
BURNETT: I love you, man. He lets loose a big grin.
LOWREY: Oh, fuck you, Marcus. The RADIO CRACKLES.
LOWREY: Yeah. Roger that. Gimme the Orona's been working out of his house. He's at.
LOWREY: The air conditioning business has been good to Orona. Lowrey rings the bell. They wait. No answer.
BURNETT: Well, we can leave a note or we can break and enter
LOWREY: Wait. Hear that? I thought I heard Orona beating his wife.
LOWREY: Uh oh. No alarm.
BURNETT: Aw, man. Did you cut one?
LOWREY: No, man. Musta been you.
BURNETT: Not me. Lowrey and Burnett look at each other and draw guns.
LOWREY: Now what? A sickened Burnett goes over to the body, speaking to Orona as if he were alive.
BURNETT: Where are the drugs? Where. are. the. drugs? He ain't sayin' nothin'. He must be guilty of somethin'. Meanwhile, Lowrey's got no problem with the dead body. He tries opening a desk drawer, but Orona's rigor mortis- stiffened knee is in the way. So Lowrey gives it a shove and the chair swivels. Orona's dead arm sweeps the lamp off the desk.
BURNETT: Whoa. Watch where you're swinging them dead arms, Orona. You're gonna fuck up your own crime BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/24/94 PM 22.
BURNETT: Watch what you touch. That's Not touching. Browsing. Mr. Orona. You've got the right to remain silent. Anything you say'll surprise the shit out of us.
BURNETT: Not touching. Browsing. Mr. Orona. You've got the right to remain silent. Anything you say'll surprise the shit out of us.
BURNETT: ( finds small notepad ) Jai-Alai. Dog track. Lotta bookies. Phone numbers.
LOWREY: ( finds small notepad ) Jai-Alai. Dog track. Lotta bookies. Phone numbers.
BURNETT: Lemme guess. Guy does the air conditioning contract for the P.D. He'd have the plans.
LOWREY: He trades the plans for his paper and gets popped by the perps.
BURNETT: Works for me. Now can we go? I'm gonna puke.
LOIS: Matronly, in her flowered dress and bare feet, she carries a tea tray toward the kitchen. Max is following.
MAX: Please, Lois. Make some calls. That's all. I'm looking for a party with fresh cash.
LOIS: I'm not doing any favors for Mike Lowrey.
MAX: Then call it a favor for me. Okay, then. I'll make the calls. But you have to talk to Julie.
LOIS: Okay, then. I'll make the calls. But you have to talk to Julie.
MAX: I'll talk to her but she's not into it.
LOIS: All you have to say is that she'll be getting paid for what she already does for free.
MAX: And she'll say, 'There's one big difference. I do it for fun. I don't ever have to blow anyone I don't like.'
JULIE: Okay. So what'd I miss?
MAX: Bad moods after a bad round of golf. I had blonde hair, then.
JULIE: Bad moods after a bad round of golf. I had blonde hair, then.
MAX: What about Ronny?
JULIE: Sex addict. Coke addict. You were a redhead?
MAX: You were a redhead?
JULIE: Only for two days. It wasn't even a phase.
MAX: Okay. Mark.
JULIE: Oooh. Bad loser and bad, bad blonde. Farrah, frosted kinda big bad blonde. Oooh. Max laughs.
JULIE: But that's my point. I remember my hair phases more than I remember the men. So, a party in a Biltmore Hotel suite? Yeah, that'll really rock.
MAX: It's a favor for a friend. If it sucks after a half-hour, we'll split and head to South Beach.
JULIE: A favor?
MAX: You know, my friend Mike Lowrey.
JULIE: ( rolls her eyes ) Mike Lowrey. Not again. Will you just have sex with the man and get it over with.
MAX: He's just a friend.
JULIE: Yeah, right. You're in love.
MAX: It's never gonna happen. I'm great at turning lovers into friends. But turning friends into lovers, I can't do.
JULIE: Well, I don't date cops. They never have enough money and they're always too tired to Well, I've told you before, my Mike isn't like that. If I were in real trouble, Mike Lowrey is the only person I'd call.
MAX: Well, I've told you before, my Mike isn't like that. If I were in real trouble, Mike Lowrey is the only person I'd call.
EDDIE: Max, my little carina. It's been a long time. And who's your friend?
MAX: Eddie. Julie.
EDDIE: Come on, Julie. Come in, Max. Welcome to the Al Capone suite.
EDDIE: I'm not kidding. Capone had the place fixed up with secret passages and hidden stairways. Can you dig it? People were actually killed within these
JULIE: Excuse me? I need to use the
EDDIE: Wow, Maxi. I thought you dropped off the edge of the earth and died. Either that or you moved to
MAX: So, Eddie. Looks like we're way too early. How's about we come back later?
EDDIE: No. Don't go yet. We can party. Just us three. Look at what Eddie's got to play with. From underneath the couch Eddie reveals a single key of heroin. Max tries to hide the recognition that she just hit paydirt on the very first try.
FOUCHET: Who's the girl, Eddie?
EDDIE: Just a hooker
MAX: My name's Max. I'm just a friend.
FOUCHET: I could use a friend who looks like you. Turn around. Lemme get a good look. Max tries to size this man, then chooses to submit. She does her best model's turn. Slowly giving him a view of the rear when Fouchet draws a PISTOL BAM BAM!! Max tumbles forward and CRASHES through a GLASS TABLE.
FOUCHET: You're a fucking idiot. Hookers talk. Now, is that my dope?
EDDIE: ( freaked ) Our dope. That was the deal, yeah? Right. Until we got the
EDDIE: You fucker. fucker fucker I have four more days until I make the deal. When it's done you get your money. Now, what part don't you understand?
FOUCHET: I have four more days until I make the deal. When it's done you get your money. Now, what part don't you understand?
EDDIE: Hey, man. You need me.
FOUCHET: I don't need anybody. I got three little angels looking over my
CASPER: Aw, man. You got blood on my new suit.
FOUCHET: Ever hear of dry cleaning? Now, shut the fuck up, check for the rest of my dope.
FOUCHET: Wheels with his PISTOL, unloads the clip. BULLETS are catching up, ripping up the couch and the rest of the suite. Julie dives right into the secret door.
CASPER: Now look. My fuckin' shoes. My fuckin' Italian shoes! Then Julie prays silently, takes a running start and leaps from the roof. SLOW-MOTION as Julie flies through the air like some glamorous angel.
FOUCHET: She's a hooker. Find out who she works for. Find out where she lives.
RUIZ: You guys watch where you're walking or you'll fuck up the crime scene.
BURNETT: Looks like you're already doing
HOWARD: Two dead. A hood registered as Eddie Dominguez and some Jane Doe. But the table over there's covered in high-grade dope. Sound I think we got us a witness. Over here I got two different shades of lipstick on one champagne glass.
LOWREY: I think we got us a witness. Over here I got two different shades of lipstick on one champagne glass.
BURNETT: He drops the sheet on Eddie's body, then moves over to Max's. He doesn't know it's her until
BURNETT: Jesus, no.
LOWREY: Whatcha got?
LOWREY: What? Who is it? Lowrey instintively pushes past his partner and kneels at the body. He pulls back the sheet. Right now he could kill the shooter, then himself. In that order. Lowrey's eyes well up.
LOWREY: I shoulda told you to be careful.
LOWREY: Eddie Dominguez. I want his phone calls. He flashes a badge.
HOTEL CLERK: You pay the bill you can see his phone calls.
LOWREY: I'm sorry. Maybe I wasn't polite With a flashing right jab, Lowrey pops the snooty Clerk. After the Clerk finds his feet, eyes peering over the I wouldn't fuck with him right Walking down the steps toward their car, Lowrey passes the phone sheet off to Burnett.
BURNETT: I wouldn't fuck with him right Walking down the steps toward their car, Lowrey passes the phone sheet off to Burnett.
LOWREY: Three calls to Lois Fields. I'm going to stop by her place and tell her a bedtime story. You can catch a ride with Howard.
BURNETT: Uh oh. Alright, you check out Lois, then check in
LOIS FIELDS: I'm sorry, Jimmy. But you can't have her. Shelly only models and that's all. That's right. Like I always say, some girls do, some girls don't, and the rest you can't afford Hello? Jimmy. Jimmy?
LOWREY: ( into mic ) This is twenty-one two. I'm gonna need back-up at 614 Reach
HOWARD: Did you check parole? How about F.B.I. or D.E.A.? They're supposed to be compliant with our requests? And where the hell's Following this Lois Fields lead. I just paged him.
BURNETT: ( hand over phone ) Following this Lois Fields lead. I just paged him.
HOWARD: The madame? What's it with this guy? It's always girls, girls, No, Theresa. No, he wasn't talking about you.
BURNETT: ( as Theresa screams ) No, Theresa. No, he wasn't talking about you.
BURNETT: Theresa, I know it was my idea. I know I was the one who wanted a little quality time. It's just that this can't wait. Can't I just wake you up when I get home?
HOWARD: It's about fuckin' time. Howard here.
JULIE: I need to talk to Detective Lowrey!
HOWARD: He's not here. How can I help you?
JULIE: You can get me Detective Lowrey!
HOWARD: This isn't another paternity case, is it?
JULIE: No. It's another murder case.
HOWARD: Did this happen at the Biltmore Listen! I just saw my best friend murdered. I'm soaking wet. I'm alone, I'm scared and I'll only talk to Mike Lowrey!
JULIE: Listen! I just saw my best friend murdered. I'm soaking wet. I'm alone, I'm scared and I'll only talk to Mike Lowrey!
HOWARD: Don't hang up. Lemme find him. Page Lowrey. Find out where he Theresa. I gotta go. Burnett hangs up and redials Lowrey's pager.
BURNETT: Theresa. I gotta go. Burnett hangs up and redials Lowrey's pager.
JULIE: I don't want to come downtown! I don't want police protection! If you can't gimme Detective Lowrey I'm just gonna blow town!
HOWARD: Don't leave town. Please, and don't hang up. I've got Lowrey right here. He just walked in. Be Lowrey.
BURNETT: I can't be Lowrey.
HOWARD: Shut up and listen! She'll only talk to Lowrey. She says she's our witness. That means she's our only link to the dope, not to mention my pension plan, so get on the phone. Burnett accepts the phone. Hand over the receiver, he does a quick Lowrey impression that starts as lame and ends pretty damn convincing.
BURNETT: Yo, you are live with Lowrey. Yo, you're live with Lowrey.
BURNETT: Mike Lowrey.
JULIE: How do I know it's Detective . 'Cuz I'm Mike Lowrey. I'm a cop. Wanna see my badge?
BURNETT: . 'Cuz I'm Mike Lowrey. I'm a cop. Wanna see my badge?
JULIE: Yes! I wanna see it now! I'm not letting you through the fucking door until I do. Hold it up to the peephole! Burnett shows his shield. Holds it up to the peephole.
JULIE: Anybody can get one of those.
BURNETT: ( annoyed ) Hey, lady. You called me, remember.? 'On the mike with
BURNETT: What the fuck was that for?
JULIE: You're not Mike Lowrey!
BURNETT: What do you mean I'm not Mike Lowrey? You never even met him! Me.
JULIE: The way Max described you was I'm undercover. She doesn't believe him and swings the bat.
BURNETT: I'm undercover. She doesn't believe him and swings the bat.
BURNETT: Okay. I'm way undercover.
JULIE: Prove it!
BURNETT: I knew her from way back. From time to time, you know. We'd get together. Mess around, you know?
JULIE: Julie swings for real, nearly taking Burnett's head off.
BURNETT: Okay. Okay. So I exaggerated. It's a man thing. She swings again, but he's had enough, he moves quickly, catching the bat with his hand and ripping it away from You know what? You don't wanna believe me? That's fine with me! Go it alone. Burnett heads toward the open door. Julie's veneer drops as she shrinks to the floor.
BURNETT: You know what? You don't wanna believe me? That's fine with me! Go it alone. Burnett heads toward the open door. Julie's veneer drops as she shrinks to the floor.
JULIE: I saw it all. I watched him shoot her. Like she was nothing. Please shut the door.
BURNETT: You don't got any more golf clubs or bats, do you? Nothin' that you can swing at me, do you? She shakes her head. He carefully steps forward.
BURNETT: Then lemme introduce myself. I'm Mike Lowrey. And I'm here to help You're not what I expected.
JULIE: You're not what I expected.
BURNETT: Yeah, well neither are you. You swing like Barry Bonds. Burnett nods and crosses over to help Julie to her feet.
BURNETT: Alright. Look here, I need to know if you've called anybody. Or if you told anybody else where you are?
JULIE: No. Nobody.
BURNETT: Good. You got a back door? Julie nods, scoops up one of her dogs and grabbing another modeling bag off the table.
JULIE: Where are we going? BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/23/94 PM 39.
BURNETT: Protective custody.
JULIE: ( pulls away ) Whoa! Fuck that. I'll only deal with you. Otherwise, I'll take my chances.
BURNETT: Let's go!
JULIE: Luke?! Where's my other dog?!
BURNETT: Fuck the dog!
VOLVO: Burnett STARTS the ENGINE and lurches out into the 97 NOAH'S POV 97 The plates on Burnett's Volvo.
BURNETT: Fine time to bark. Where were you when they were comin' up the walk? Shit. Bet they got a look at my license plates. If you saw him again, would you remember the guy who shot Max?
JULIE: All I remember is one of them had really bad hair. Where are we I told you, I'm putting you into protective custody.
BURNETT: I told you, I'm putting you into protective custody.
JULIE: ( cuts him off ) No way. Listen, no offense, but I don't trust anybody.
BURNETT: Yeah. I noticed.
JULIE: Believe me, it's not a new thing. Especially when my life is at stake. I read the newspaper you know, people disappear all the Fine. So what do you want to do? Where will you feel safe?
BURNETT: ( exasperated again ) Fine. So what do you want to do? Where will you feel safe?
JULIE: I didn't really think about it. I guess it's your place or a plane ticket. Your place is cheaper. So you choose.
BURNETT: My place? Okay, good. No, wait. My place is wrong.
JULIE: I mean right. As in good. My place is good. We'll go there My place.
BURNETT: I mean right. As in good. My place is good. We'll go there My place.
BURNETT: Wait here.
CHET: Detective Burnett. Mr. Lowrey is He told me I could use the place Didn't mention it to me. Chet holds out his hand. Burnett slips him ten. Chet sneaks a peek over at the car, sees Julie putting on Say. How's that Mrs. Burnett? Burnett realizes this is going to cost him more. Gives him another ten. But for Chet it's still not enough.
BURNETT: He told me I could use the place Didn't mention it to me. Chet holds out his hand. Burnett slips him ten. Chet sneaks a peek over at the car, sees Julie putting on Say. How's that Mrs. Burnett? Burnett realizes this is going to cost him more. Gives him another ten. But for Chet it's still not enough.
CHET: Didn't mention it to me. Chet holds out his hand. Burnett slips him ten. Chet sneaks a peek over at the car, sees Julie putting on Say. How's that Mrs. Burnett? Burnett realizes this is going to cost him more. Gives him another ten. But for Chet it's still not enough.
CHET: Say. How's that Mrs. Burnett? Burnett realizes this is going to cost him more. Gives him another ten. But for Chet it's still not enough.
CHET: Your children good? Mr. Lowrey says you got a regular baby factory goin' over there.
BURNETT: ( all his money ) Here. And if that's not enough, I'm gonna run you in for extortion.
CHET: Now that I think about it, Mr. Lowrey did mention something about giving you the key.
BURNETT: I forgot I had those switches moved. Welcome to Casa del Lowrey. Julie enters, looking left and right, cautious but impressed by the stylish digs.
JULIE: Nice. very nice. All this on a cop's salary?
BURNETT: I uh. I invest.
JULIE: Right. What was your last pick? A horse in the number two race at Pimlico? Or did a bookie give you an inside tip.
BURNETT: My father invests. Listen. You must be tired
JULIE: I'll ask you this only once, Mike. Are you on the take? And if you say no and I discover you're lying to me, I'll walk. Are we clear?
BURNETT: Fair enough. I'm not on the take. Satisfied? Good. So. why don't you make yourself at home? Here's the T.V. remote. Watch yourself some 'Gilligan's Island' reruns or Hits "ON" button. Instead of TV, the room immediately becomes a seduction den: lights dim, romantic music.
BURNETT: Heh all these damn things look Well, gotta run. There's probably a couple of good steaks in the fridge for the dogs. Help yourself to whatever. I'll check on you in the morning.
JULIE: Where are you going?
BURNETT: Uh, back to the P.D. I got paperwork back on my desk to go through that's about this high. And now there's you, so that makes it this high. To his neck.
JULIE: You mean, you're going to leave me alone? In your place. With all your stuff?
BURNETT: Why shouldn't I? Are you a thief or a vandal?
JULIE: Of course not. And I'm not a call girl, either.
BURNETT: I didn't ask.
JULIE: I know you didn't. I just thought you should know.
BURNETT: Okay. Important lesson. Julie's not a call girl. Can I go now?
JULIE: Just one more thing. Julie steps forward and wraps her arms around Burnett. It's a one-way hug. Uncomfortable, Burnett doesn't reciprocate other than a palsy pat on the back.
JULIE: Thank you. For everything.
BURNETT: Don't mention it. Burnett tries to break toward the door when the PHONE RINGS. Burnett stares at the phone, not knowing what to do.
JULIE: Aren't you going to
BURNETT: It's uh. It's uh.
JULIE: You don't have to explain. Finally, they've reached consensus. Burnett grins and is out the door.
BURNETT: Lock the door. Don't open it for BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/24/94 PM 46.
BURNETT: Listen, Chet. The girl? She's a witness. I'm gonna be gone for about an hour. Do me a favor. Keep your eye out, okay?
CHET: You know, Mr. Burnett. I'm getting off in just a few minutes, so. I could watch the door if you like. You know. In a chair. I could just sit in it. Outside the door like cops do when they're guarding Just keep an eye out. Heads for the door.
BURNETT: Just keep an eye out. Heads for the door.
CHET: Yeah, I was gonna be a cop, you know? Just didn't work out. You know? Politics.
DORIS: Don't you 'Honey Baby' me
BURNETT: I swear, baby, it's nothing. I was on the job
DORIS: And you just happened to lose your wedding ring 'on the He looks down at his ringless finger
BURNETT: No! No! I got it right here.
BURNETT: If you were a real partner, instead of some no-backup, hot doggin', car chasin', skirt sniffin' motherfucker, I would be gettin' down to business with my wife instead of stuck in this situation.
LOWREY: Yeah. Thanks for the get-well card.
BURNETT: Chief. I tried to set the girl up with a sketch artist but she won't. I tried to get her to come in and look at the mug books and she won't come in.
HOWARD: She'll only deal with Mike Lowrey. He tosses a brick.
BURNETT: That's right. So let her deal with the real Mike Lowrey! Who, I might add, shoulda been there to take the call instead of runnin' off like a hot dog without any Howard fires another missed shot. He's so bad, it's all Burnett and Lowrey can do to keep from spiking the ball.
LOWREY: Hey. I'm not the one who left a strange hooker alone in my apartment. You know, she's probably on the street sellin' all my shit as we speak.
BURNETT: I had to stash her somewhere! She's scared shitless. just like her dogs.
LOWREY: Dogs, too? I got Persian rugs, man. I'm going home. explain the whole thing, take her to the Motel Six, she'll understand.
HOWARD: Not a good idea. Until she I.D.s the shotters, he's Mike Lowrey. Could take a coupla hours. Could take all day. You got a computer with a modem?
BURNETT: Big computer. Expensive
LOWREY: Yeah, I got a computer and you shouldn't touch it. It took me weeks to get it set up the way I want it and I don't want amateurs messing with it.
HOWARD: ( brick number four ) Burnett. I'll have Francine give you the user code for the computer files and you can run pictures for the girl on Lowrey's super duper So what about me? I can't tell my wife I'm shacked up with a female witness! Besides, I think they made my car last night. I gotta stay close to home, just in case.
BURNETT: So what about me? I can't tell my wife I'm shacked up with a female witness! Besides, I think they made my car last night. I gotta stay close to home, just in case.
HOWARD: Easy. Lowrey moves into your house. And you're on special Another brick.
LOWREY: No way! I'm not living in that My house ain't no zoo!
BURNETT: My house ain't no zoo!
HOWARD: Enough! You're him, he's you! Until she makes the shooters and we get the dope back, I don't care what you have to do, just make it work! Lowrey and Burnett feel hammered by Howard. Upon retrieving his final brick, Lowrey passes to Burnett, who feeds back Lowrey with a heel kick to the rim. And Lowrey slams the ball home. They exit with Howard simply staring.
THERESA: You never had to go to Cleveland on police business before.
BURNETT: Cleveland's where they collared the dealer. And that's where I gotta go to testify.
THERESA: But what about us? The neighborhood's had all break-ins. I won't feel safe if you're
BURNETT: Honey. I wouldn't go if I didn't have the most trustworthy man I know to look after my family.
THERESA: Oh, no, Not Lowrey. Not in my Yes, Lowrey. I trust him with my life and, I most certainly trust him with yours.
BURNETT: Yes, Lowrey. I trust him with my life and, I most certainly trust him with yours.
THERESA: Why don't they send him to Cleveland?
BURNETT: Baby. It's a Federal subpoena. I'm the witness. I'm the one who has to testify. Case closed. I'm the one going to Cleveland. Lowrey's staying here.
BURNETT: Don't forget to put Snail Guard on my lawn.
LOWREY: Just leave Cleveland the way you found it.
BURNETT: Bye-bye, Theresa. Be good, kids.
THERESA: Why's he taking your car?
LOWREY: ( seething ) He's dropping it off at the mechanic on the way to the airport. The engine needs an overhaul. or will by the time he gets there.
THERESA: Where you think you're going? I got a list here of things that Marcus was supposed
LOWREY: that Marcus was supposed to do. That's right. Marcus. Not Mike. 'Cuz Mike's a cop on a case with no time to waste.
ON FOUCHET: He's dealing with his 26-year-old chemist named ELLIOT.
FOUCHET: Okay. Explain it to me, Elliot. Why are we behind?
ELLIOT: The cutting agent is highly volatile. You can't cook it like you would a pizza. I had to gear the ovens down to half-speed.
FOUCHET: We already accounted for that, Elliot. It's in our fucking timetable. So what else? Elliot is uncomfortable. He looks back at WALLY, his stoned-looking assistant, before forging ahead.
ELLIOT: There's too much moisture down here. The pies are taking longer to cook than we originally Yeah. It's totally fucked.
WALLY: Yeah. It's totally fucked.
FOUCHET: You. Shut up. Now, listen, you little pussy. We're not making pizza.
BURNETT: Shut up before I step on you.
JULIE: That you, Mike?
JULIE: At least your timing's good. Can you bring me the lotion on the nightstand?
JULIE: Thanks. So I was thinking. Julie, obviously free with her body, suddenly drops the towel and starts applying lotion. Burnett averts his eyes, turning around a full one-eighty, but finds himself facing a mirror. Oops. Looks left, another shiny surface. Shit.
BURNETT: ( to himself ) Crazy fuckin' woman.
JULIE: The guy who killed Max. Now, he was looking for the heroin that Eddie stole from him. Max went to the party as a favor to you. You're a dope cop, right?
BURNETT: Special Narcotics Division.
JULIE: So this isn't about Max's death at all. It's about dope.
BURNETT: We find the dope, we find our shooter, too.
JULIE: There's some powder in there, too. Can you hand that to me? Mike? Mike? Burnett has disappeared into.
BURNETT: Man, when this is over, I'm gonna get me somethin' better than quality time. It's gonna be me'n Theresa on a boat
BURNETT: Mug shots. We got mug shots to look at. 'Scuse me, I gotta hook into the P.D. computer. He heads out of the bedroom.
JULIE: Hey, Mike. Who's the guy in all the pictures? Burnett turns. And there behind Julie is a wall full of photos that he's never, ever noticed. Nearly all of Lowrey. All ego.
BURNETT: That guy? Well, that's Marcus Burnett, my partner. Burnett gets closer and must look around until he finds the singular photo of the two of them. It's in a shitty frame, too.
BURNETT: There's the two of us, see? Me'n'. . My partner.
JULIE: Listen, Mike. I've known a lotta guys. And I've seen a good number of their bedrooms, okay? But I've never seen. I mean, look at it. It's like a shrine to him.
BURNETT: Yeah. Okay. Sure, I can see how it looks that way. But you see. you see. It's uh. a cop thing. That's because I've put a picture up there for every time Marcus has saved my life.
JULIE: Saved your life?
BURNETT: I save his life. He saves mine. He's got the same thing in his house. Pictures of me. More, even. Good family man, that Marcus.
JULIE: Okay, but Mike. This is like a lot of pictures. I mean, this isn't something by the bedstand. This is a whole wall. And I know Max said you were just friends. That's why I was thinking, maybe. you could be. gay. Burnett reacts, then recovers with.
BURNETT: Me? Gay? Are you outta your I didn't mean to offend you.
JULIE: I didn't mean to offend you.
BURNETT: It's a good thing that I'm secure in my manhood to see that you don't mean that. You know how many women I've had in that waterbed? Check the waves as they go by. Count 'em. Now, mug shots?
BURNETT: The shooter said four days until he makes the deal. What else did he say?
JULIE: Somethin' weird. Sounded like three angels. He wasn't worried because he had three little angels on his shoulders tellin' him something. I didn't get the rest. I'm getting tired of looking at ugly people.
BURNETT: Just a few more and we can take another break.
JULIE: I don't wanna take a break. Then we'd have to talk and I got nothing to say to a cannibal.
BURNETT: A what?
JULIE: That was a living, breathing consciousness. It felt joy. Sadness. Maybe it even had a What had a name.
BURNETT: What had a name.
JULIE: That flesh you're shoveling into your mouth.
BURNETT: ( stops chewing ) It's just bologna.
JULIE: It was alive. Some farmer fed it. Got it to trust him. Then blew its brains out, dumped it in a cement mixer with a ton of carcinogens and now you're eating Burnett never looked at it that way. He starts to put it ANGLE - COMPUTER SCREEN It's a photo of Noah along with his extensive rap sheet.
JULIE: No. At least finish it so I won't have to look at it. Let's look at some more ugly
JULIE: Wait. Hold it. Go back. That's him! That's one of 'em.
BURNETT: You sure?
LOWREY: Captain Howard, please. It's Uncle Mike
MEGAN: But I have to go now!
LOWREY: I just talked to Marcus. The girl just I.D.'d one of the Uncle Mike!
MEGAN: Uncle Mike!
LOWREY: Okay. Hang on, Cappy. This is Prudence and she has to go potty. This is a potty. Everyone has to poop and when they do they use the potty. Mommies poop. Daddies poop. Captain Howard poops. Even doggies poop.
BURNETT: Your dog took a shit.
JULIE: And you used Pledge to clean it Lemon Pledge.
BURNETT: ( looks at can ) Lemon Pledge.
JULIE: Well, that makes a big difference. You just varnished that into the fabric. I'm sure it works great.
BURNETT: You cleaned my clothes?
JULIE: I just threw them in with mine.
BURNETT: You cleaned my clothes? He's all appreciative until he notices something dis- turbing. A shirt of his has a large bleached area on it.
BURNETT: What's this??
JULIE: ( shyly ) I had a little accident.
BURNETT: This is my favorite shirt. My lucky shirt.
JULIE: As Burnett starts to walk away.
JULIE: Listen, Mike. I don't have any of my clothes. I wanna go back to my place to get some.
BURNETT: Not going to happen.
JULIE: I need apparel. That and I need some food that's something more than a cold, slab of fear.
BURNETT: Slab of fear?
JULIE: All you got in the place are frozen steaks.
BURNETT: Alright. I left my wallet at the office so I'll give you some cash BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/24/94 59.
THERESA: Standing in the doorway. Hands on her hips.
LOWREY: Oh, hi, Theresa. Just tellin' the kids about
THERESA: Thank you, but I'll tuck the kids in. Say good night to Uncle Mike.
QUINCY: But we want to hear the rest of the story.
LOWREY: G'night, gang.
THERESA: If you were my husband, I'd poison that.
LOWREY: If you were my wife I'd drink it.
THERESA: Twelve years I'm married, Michael. And I never let Marcus bring his work home.
LOWREY: Just a harmless bedtime story. Thought the kids deserved to know about the hero they have for a dad.
THERESA: We don't need any violence in this household and we certainly don't need any more heroes. What we need is a father and a husband.
LOWREY: Husband? Theresa. He's your personal errand boy. You beep the poor S.O.B. every hour on the Goddamn hour? And why is it always about some useless bullshit that can wait until later. I mean, the guy's gotta job to do.
THERESA: You wanna know why I page him? Because until that phone rings, I don't know whether he's dead or alive. And lemme tell you. Those three minutes I'm waiting for him to call back? Those are the hardest three minutes for a cop's wife.
LOWREY: ( toasts with the Coke ) Touche, Theresa.
THERESA: Sheets and pillows are in the hope chest. I'll see you in the morning.
SANCHEZ: Ooh, mean machine, Lowrey.
LOWREY: You should recognize trunk. It's the one you came to America in.
RUIZ: You don't come from Cuba by car,
BURNETT: I'm tellin' you, I've had it with this witness. I wanna go home and get back to my life as it was. I got married so I could stop lyin'.
LOWREY: Oh, please. Big fucking deal. You know what I had to do? I drove your kids to school this morning. Your son forgot his homework. So I had to drive him all the way back in that junker of What's that you're wearin'? Is that my new silk shirt? Is that my shirt?
BURNETT: Yeah. I know, it's a little big on me. But cool. I figure, what about it? If I'm gonna be Mike, might as well dress like Mike! I wanna be, I wanna be like Mike. Lowrey's BEEPER SOUNDS. He checks out the number.
LOWREY: Ugh. I gotta call the wife.
BURNETT: The wife? Lowrey finds the nearest phone and dials. Burnett is thinking Theresa?
LOWREY: Yeah, what's up, baby. Uh-huh. Yeah. Okay. What else? You want me do what? Lowrey glances over at Burnett who's clearly loving the fact that it's Lowrey's turn at errand boy. So Lowrey.
LOWREY: Mmm. Uh-huh. Hectic down here. I'll be in, nine. Nine-thirty. The kids alright? How's that potty thing? Yeah? Okay. Lowrey turns to block the phone, depressing the switch, but acting as if he's still on with Theresa.
LOWREY: Say, why don't you rent a movie or somethin'? Uh-huh. You're so silly. Burnett's burning now.
LOWREY: So, baby. What you wearin'?
BURNETT: Gimme that phone. Hello, Theresa? Theresa!
LOWREY: Man, it's off. It was a joke.
BURNETT: Hey, man. Don't mess with me! That's the mother of my children. Don't break up a happy home. Lowrey is annoyed. He holds the list Theresa just gave him as they walk down the aisle.
LOWREY: Marcus, this is crazy. We are five minutes away from picking up this asshole and returning to our lives. And we're here doin' this shit. Where the fuck is it?
BURNETT: Hey. Don't ask me to find it for you. You're the expert on my BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/23/94 ( PM ) 62B.
LOWREY: You know, this is like some really bizarre shit that you're on right now. Your wife asked me to do this, and I'm doin' it. Besides, I'm you, remember?
BURNETT: You don't even know where you're going. You're in the wrong aisle. Lowrey follows Burnett to the next aisle, where Burnett gestures to the wall of feminine hygiene products.
BURNETT: You think you know what Theresa needs, man, but I do this every Just look for 'Fresh Days.' Lowrey moves ahead. There's too much to look at.
LOWREY: You're unbalanced. Listen, I read the parole jacket on this guy Noah. Armed robbery. Attempted murder. He's a violent offender somethin' like nine times. Sweet guy. Not a single drug bust on his sheet.
BURNETT: So? He's a new recruit. Keep looking, will ya? 'Fresh Days.'
LOWREY: You know, it is a damn shame she makes you buy this stuff.
BURNETT: Hey, this what husband's do.
LOWREY: Terrible fuckin' job. It's like shaving cream. They're all the same. Fresh. Free. Confident. Secure. Super wide? What the fuck? We're takin' this one.
BURNETT: Hey, man, look! You're not even reading. These are panty liners, A woman chooses this moment to walk by.
BURNETT: That's a whole 'nother category of thing! Man, for a guy that spends all his time chasing pussy, you sure don't know much about the woo woo. Here it is. Fresh Days. You pay for it.
BURNETT: What are we gonna be today? Postal Inspectors or Water and Power?
LOWREY: Water and Power.
BURNETT: What do you think the chain's for?
LOWREY: I dunno. Maybe some kind of hurricane anchor. They knock again. The chain jerks slightly.
BURNETT: Well, the anchor just moved. Both turn and look. And the chain is moving. At first, it simply sways back and forth, then it pulls taut and the FRIDGE JOLTS! A deep, GUTTURAL NOISE sounds. From around the corner, a shadow grows large. Lowrey and Burnett instinctively withdraw their guns and aim just as a LION rounds the corner, teeth bared, claws tearing at the deck. The door swings open. Burnett pushes Lowrey inside just as the big cat lunges.
BURNETT: AAAAAAAAAAA-Animal Control!
WOMAN: But your uniforms say Water and We're undercover! Now, we're lookin' for the owner of that Listen. The cat don't belong to me. It belong to my brother. And I don't know where he is.
LOWREY: We're undercover! Now, we're lookin' for the owner of that Listen. The cat don't belong to me. It belong to my brother. And I don't know where he is.
WOMAN: Listen. The cat don't belong to me. It belong to my brother. And I don't know where he is.
BURNETT: That's too bad. Because his lion's tied to your trailer. So you gotta move the beast. Or move the trailer.
WOMAN: Move the trailer? Move it to Everglades. Only part of South Florida that's zoned for Wild Kingdom shit. 'Course, the crocks down there'll probably eat your brother's cat.
LOWREY: Everglades. Only part of South Florida that's zoned for Wild Kingdom shit. 'Course, the crocks down there'll probably eat your brother's cat.
WOMAN: But he loves that lion! Raised him from a little kitty!
BURNETT: Well, little kitty's gonna be gator bait 'less you suddenly remember where your brother is. By the look on her face, her memory is coming back.
CHET: ( to each of them ) 'Morning, Mr. Lowrey. 'Morning, Mr. Lowrey.
BURNETT: It's me, Julie. Julie enters from the bedroom, dressed in something hot with the tag still hanging from a sleeve.
JULIE: I'll be ready in just a minute. I thought I'd have you tell She stalls at the sight of Lowrey, a little spark of interest passes between them.
JULIE: Hi. I'm Julie. You must be I recognize you from all the photographs. Nice to meet you. What do you think?
LOWREY: Very nice. The occasion?
JULIE: He said we were going to a club Yes. We were going to a club. As in me and my partner.
BURNETT: Yes. We were going to a club. As in me and my partner.
JULIE: Oh, that's fuckin' swell! And you call this protective custody? I'm here all day. I'm alone and scared. And all I got to protect me is Chet the doorman
LOWREY: What's that on the rug? Looks like. a stain? Teeth grit.
JULIE: It was my babies, Luke and Duke. They get nervous in new surroundings. I offered to pay for the cleaning, but Mike wouldn't hear of it Lowrey spots rings from glasses on the table.
LOWREY: And have you ever heard of a new invention called the 'coaster'? As he tries buffing the table with his sleeve.
JULIE: Marcus, you act like it's your No. It's not my place. My wife. She's a designer. She decorated the whole place at a discount just for Mike. And when she hears about how he's been taking care of Off the couch! Lowrey chases the dogs into the bedroom. One of the dogs runs out with a Cole Hahn loafer in his mouth. They both follow him into the bedroom.
BURNETT: No. It's not my place. My wife. She's a designer. She decorated the whole place at a discount just for Mike. And when she hears about how he's been taking care of Off the couch! Lowrey chases the dogs into the bedroom. One of the dogs runs out with a Cole Hahn loafer in his mouth. They both follow him into the bedroom.
LOWREY: No. It's not my place. My wife. She's a designer. She decorated the whole place at a discount just for Mike. And when she hears about how he's been taking care of Off the couch! Lowrey chases the dogs into the bedroom. One of the dogs runs out with a Cole Hahn loafer in his mouth. They both follow him into the bedroom.
WOMAN: The Woman strips off the overcoat under which she's breathtakingly naked, save for a garter belt and stockings. She drapes the coat over the nearest chair.
WOMAN: I'm feeling really nasty right Burnett is first to appear from the bedroom and his expression goes off the charts. Startled, the woman shrugs back into her coat.
WOMAN: Who the hell are you? Burnett charges her, instantly ushering her to the door.
BURNETT: How did you get in here? Julie and Lowrey return from the bedroom.
WOMAN: I have a key. But, Mike.
BURNETT: ( whispers ) Maybe you should call first next time. What's your name?
WOMAN: You don't quit stalking me, Yvette, I'm gonna place your ass under arrest! 'Bye! Burnett slams the door. She's SCREAMING on the other side, POUNDING the door with her fists, and cursing in mad Spanish. Finally she stomps off down the hall.
BURNETT: You don't quit stalking me, Yvette, I'm gonna place your ass under arrest! 'Bye! Burnett slams the door. She's SCREAMING on the other side, POUNDING the door with her fists, and cursing in mad Spanish. Finally she stomps off down the hall.
LOWREY: 'The hell's going on out here??
BURNETT: Just that crazy Yvette, stalking me again.
LOWREY: Yvette!? You didn't just send away Yvette?
BURNETT: That woman's into some weird shit.
JULIE: ( to Burnett ) So, Mike. Any other spontaneous naked women with keys, that we should know about?
BURNETT: We, as in Marcus and I, are going to Club Hell. We're gonna nail this Noah guy and get him to give up Max's shooter. Anyone got a problem with that?
JULIE: I feel safer now.
LOWREY: You are ruining my life!
BURNETT: Yeah, well this case is messin' with mine, too.
BURNETT: Hey, man. Got some bad news. Your car got busted into. There's some uniformed boys in the parking lot wanting to ask you some Pissed and panicked, the hipster pair head for the parking lot, while Lowery and Burnett take their place near the front of the line.
FOUCHET: My three little angels told me I'd get a visit from the cops tonight and there they are. When they split up, we'll drop the tall one and get the other one to lead us to the girl.
LOWREY: I say we split the room in half. Make our own moves. Hook back up at the bar in twenty minutes.
BURNETT: Sounds good to me. Lowrey moves off and Burnett turns to the female
BURNETT: Gin and tonic. . And add twenty for yourself.
LOWREY: Bartender says he works here. But she hasn't seen him all night. I gotta make a pitstop.
BURNETT: Bartender says he works here. But she hasn't seen him all night. I gotta make a pitstop.
BURNETT: Oh, man. Budweiser.
CASPER: Excuse me?
BURNETT: Musta drank about a million Budweisers tonight, waitin' for my ol' friend Noah to show. Wouldn't know him, would ya? Guy practically raised me up from nothin'.
CASPER: Sorry. Never heard of him.
BURNETT: Too bad. Burnett shrugs, zips and reaches to flush when
CASPER: Okay, hardon! Tell me where the girl is!
BURNETT: Next time, learn how to work the safety with your punk ass. Now where's my no good, no back-up Through the busted fishtank, Burnett catches sight of Lowrey, standing at the bar and making conversation with one of the club beauties.
LOWREY: What the hell are you doing here?
JULIE: The guy who killed Max. I remember something he said!
LOWREY: ( starts moving her Well, whatever he said, you remember to tell me later.
JULIE: Three little angels! The guy who killed Max said 'three little Julie sees Noah and freezes.
LOWREY: The music's too loud. What you say about angels? Noah closes the gap. Through the crowd he draws down on He pounds on the window.
FOUCHET: Forget the cop. Kill the girl!
LOWREY: Launches himself off a nearby table, soars over the frightened crowd and comes crashing down upon Noah. Both Lowrey and Noah tumble to the floor. Noah's gun skitters into the crowd. Noah chases for it, but can't find it. But
FERGUSON'S: got a clear shot at Julie. He raises his gun, only to find Burnett's pistol at his ear.
BURNETT: Don't even think about it.
JULIE: as she grabs Lowrey.
JULIE: That's him!
LOWREY: No shit!
LOWREY: Lemme drive!
BURNETT: I'm driving. Buckle up. Burnett hits the gas, the CAR SCREAMS around in a tight circle just as SLAM! Noah's sedan backs wildly across the road and crunches them. Noah throws a SHOTGUN over the back seat of his car and FIRES through the rear window. BLAM! Everybody ducks. Safety glass flies before Noah shifts gears and drives on.
LOWREY: You're gonna drive through that, aren't you? Burnett does, hauling through the light. Meanwhile, Lowrey has the bubble light in hand, reaches out the window to stick it on the roof, but it simply slides off. He reels it back in the car and hands it off to Julie.
LOWREY: Hold that.
LOWREY: C'mon, lemme drive
BURNETT: Do I backseat drive when you're tailing a hitman?
NOAH: His wheels catch the island and the snaps, and rolls right into
JULIE: Just getting out of the car as the station blows. They shield themselves against the explosion.
BURNETT: There goes our only lead to the dope. We better call Howard.
JULIE: That's it. That's it. You're both crazy. Julie takes a few steps away before she decides to give them the other barrel.
JULIE: Protect and serve. Sound familiar? Isn't that what you're supposed to do? 'Cuz I'd like to know whose butt you're protecting.
LOWREY: I think we protected your uninvited butt pretty good back All you care about is getting your dope back. No, that's not all, you care about getting it back in a way that shows how fucking macho and tough you are. It's all some big testosterone contest. Well, fuck that. As Julie walks in one direction, Burnett blows off in the No more. Fuck this. I'm Chill, I'll handle it. not goin' with it. No, I'm ( starts after out. I'm out. Somethin's Julie ) wrong with her. Crazy woman! Julie! Just wait a Burnett keeps moving and grousing while Lowrey chases Julie down and snags her by the arm.
JULIE: All you care about is getting your dope back. No, that's not all, you care about getting it back in a way that shows how fucking macho and tough you are. It's all some big testosterone contest. Well, fuck that. As Julie walks in one direction, Burnett blows off in the No more. Fuck this. I'm Chill, I'll handle it. not goin' with it. No, I'm ( starts after out. I'm out. Somethin's Julie ) wrong with her. Crazy woman! Julie! Just wait a Burnett keeps moving and grousing while Lowrey chases Julie down and snags her by the arm.
LOWREY: Hey, hey. Just relax! Okay. It's true this whole thing started with missing drugs. But somebody I cared about. A lot. She got killed. And I'm not gonna lay down until this guy is dead or put away. And I promise you, we'll take care of you.
JULIE: That's what I'm afraid of. Once again, Julie pulls away. But Lowrey's got her tight. and close. He digs deep.
LOWREY: Hey. What do I gotta say? I need you, okay? I need you. Magic words. Julie's swayed, despite herself.
JULIE: Do they teach charm at the Nah. Some smooth shit I got on my own.
LOWREY: Nah. Some smooth shit I got on my own.
BURNETT: Jesus. What kinda shit was in Smells like some kinda chemical.
LOWREY: Smells like some kinda chemical.
BURNETT: We'll get a sample and drop it back at the lab. Meanwhile, why don't you two go on back to Club Hell and see what you can dig up on these bad guys.
LOWREY: One day, bro. Gotta get yourself some of them.
LOWREY: Hey, hey. That's not cryin' I Oh, it's nothing. I just bought some clothes. It's been so long since I bought anything nice. I just wanted something to wear for Marcus when he got home. But nothing looks right. He's slipping away from me, Mike. I can feel it.
THERESA: ( wipes tears ) Oh, it's nothing. I just bought some clothes. It's been so long since I bought anything nice. I just wanted something to wear for Marcus when he got home. But nothing looks right. ( starts crying He's slipping away from me, Mike. I can feel it.
LOWREY: ( sits next to her ) Theresa. Listen to me. Nobody's slipping away from you. Especially not Marcus. You can take my word on that. As for the clothes.
LOWREY: Okay. Just a minor fashion faux paux. Those cappuccinos at lunch can do that to you. See what else we got here.
BURNETT: That's perfectly alright Julie suddenly flops on the bed, wearing a gorgeous So, Mike. Can I ask you something?
JULIE: So, Mike. Can I ask you something?
BURNETT: Do you always come to bed with your clothes on? Or just when there's a woman in it?
JULIE: Do you always come to bed with your clothes on? Or just when there's a woman in it?
BURNETT: I'm on protective duty. And I want you to feel. protected. So I'm dressed and ready. It's okay. I've done it before.
JULIE: Really. You think Marcus would wear clothes to bed while on protective duty?
BURNETT: Sure he would. It's a cop thing.
JULIE: Oh, I definitely have a cop thing, You do?
BURNETT: You do?
JULIE: Well Marcus. He's very something . sexy. And the way I came in tonight, he was throwing everybody this way and that and he took Well, I drove.
BURNETT: Well, I drove.
JULIE: I know. You drove well.
BURNETT: I shot the gas tank on the car.
JULIE: That's right, you did. And it was exciting. But Marcus. Something about him. His wife. What's her name?
BURNETT: Theresa. Why?
JULIE: I'll bet Theresa is takin' care of business right now.
BURNETT: What's that supposed to mean?
JULIE: You know, relieve his tension. A woman'll do anything to keep a man like that. You know what I mean? Tonight. made me a little bit horny, I guess. I think, maybe. It was the car chase. Or the guns and everything. I've never shot a gun before. Maybe it's the steel or something. I'm feeling a little. funny.
BURNETT: I don't know. Do you feel a little funny?
JULIE: I don't know. Do you feel a little funny?
BURNETT: Yeah. I feel a little funny.
JULIE: Not that kind of funny.
BURNETT: What kind of funny?
JULIE: You know. I gotta call Marcus. Burnett's out of bed like a shot and headed for the living room.
BURNETT: I gotta call Marcus. Burnett's out of bed like a shot and headed for the living room.
LOWREY: That's right. Turn around.
THERESA: You think he'll like it? I mean, I want him to, you know, want to.
LOWREY: Want to? Baby. Someone I know's gonna burn you right to the ground. Get ready! You're on the mic with Mike.
JULIE: Usually the guy throws me out after he fucks me.
BURNETT: I'm different. I'm a cop. And now I gotta kill a guy.
KIDS: G'night, Uncle Mike.
THERESA: Yeah. Good night, Uncle Mike.
LOWREY: G'night, everybody. Lowrey's at the window. Parked just down the street is the same sedan. He goes for the phone and dials. Waits for an answer.
LOWREY: Hey, Sanchez. It's me Lowrey. Yeah? Same to you, pal. But listen. I got something you'll want a piece of.
BURNETT: I got some jewelry for you. Before Julie can respond, Burnett's cuffing her to the steering wheel.
JULIE: You prick! First you don't want me. Then you drag me out.
BURNETT: Just shut the fuck up. I won't be long. Try and keep out of sight. Burnett's out of the car with the keys. Julie yanks on the handcuffs, then goes for the glove box. But this time it's empty.
CASPER: There's our guy. Watch him.
BURNETT: falls. Landing flat on his back on the awning. His eyes close with a look that says "saved." But then as he moves. Something CREAKS.
THERESA: In a heartbeat, Lowrey charges into Theresa's room in his
LOWREY: What's the matter?
THERESA: I heard a noise. I think someone's outside.
AWNING: gives way. And Burnett crashes loudly into the garbage cans underneath. Lids and cans go every which way.
LOWREY: Go into the kids' room, turn the lights out and wait there until I come get you.
LOWREY'S GUN: Tumbles into the flower bed. Lowrey reels with an elbow, dropping Burnett to the lawn. But Burnett rolls and clips Lowrey's legs. Lowrey falls. Crawls for his gun. Gets hold of it, turns and is ready to fire when
CAR: drives past. The headlights, revealing Burnett.
LOWREY: Marcus! What the fuck
BURNETT: . You doin' Theresa? Theresa!
LOWREY: What? Me and Theresa?
BURNETT: I hope you used protection. 'cause I don't want a fourth kid that looks like you!
FERGUSON: Wanna explain what this shit's This whole deal has turned you stupid. You're seeing things that aren't there.
LOWREY: This whole deal has turned you stupid. You're seeing things that aren't there.
BURNETT: ( picks up a snail ) And I suppose this isn't here? You were going to put Snail Guard on the lawn, remember?
LOWREY: I'm fine, Theresa! Will you get the hell out of here before she sees you! You're supposed to be in Cleveland.
BURNETT: Yeah, I wouldn't want to spoil your little arrangement!
LOWREY: And where's Julie? You didn't leave her again.
BURNETT: She's in the car. Got her cuffed to the steering wheel. Lowrey could kill now. He's on his feet, grabbing Burnett by the collar and shoving him up against the front door.
LOWREY: ( through grit teeth ) Now, listen to me. Look over my right shoulder. What do you see . I said look!
BURNETT: ( looks ) Late model Ford. Two occupants.
LOWREY: Good. So who do you think's in there? Ed McMahon come to tell us we're sweepstakes winners?
BURNETT: Okay. What are we doing about it?
LOWREY: We're doing nothing. I've got it handled. In the meantime, you better get back to where you belong before I shoot you myself.
CASPER: Sonofabitch! There's the girl! But just as they start the car. KUH-THUNK the CAR lurches.
FERGUSON: What the fuck?
SANCHEZ: Let's go! The tow truck hauls away Ferguson and Casper stuck in the sedan.
RUIZ: This oughta teach you not to fuck with a cop's family.
CHET: 'Evening, Mr. Lowrey. May I have a word with you? I was thinking that. maybe I could see your gun. See, we don't allow guns up in the apartments. Mr. Lowrey usually checks his, here, at the desk with me. You want me to check
CHET: Oh, okay. It's just an option.
BURNETT: Hey. What's goin' on here?
LOWREY: Wait a minute. That's my desk!
HOWARD: Yeah, yeah. It's exactly how it looks. I.A.'s shutting us down. We're all being reassigned until their investigation is over. In Howard pushes them into
HOWARD'S OFFICE: Where Ruiz and Sanchez wait with one of last night's Henchmen. His face is horribly bruised.
SANCHEZ: He says he wants his lawyer.
RUIZ: Yeah, but we told him we were desperate men without no fuckin' jobs, so. Okay. All I know is his name. Foo-shay, I think. Got this heavy French accent. The word was he offs drug dealers. And there was quick cash for whoever had the balls enough to hook up with him. I swear, man, watchin' your house was my first gig for the guy. Burnett stands over the Henchman and lifts his defeated chin to face him. Burnett has it in him to give the guy one more hard whack for good measure, but that bruised face proves punishment enough.
HENCHMAN: Okay. All I know is his name. Foo-shay, I think. Got this heavy French accent. The word was he offs drug dealers. And there was quick cash for whoever had the balls enough to hook up with him. I swear, man, watchin' your house was my first gig for the guy. Burnett stands over the Henchman and lifts his defeated chin to face him. Burnett has it in him to give the guy one more hard whack for good measure, but that bruised face proves punishment enough.
BURNETT: Yeah. I guess you're tellin' the truth.
HOWARD: I also got the lab report from the stuff you picked up in Noah's He hands it off.
LOWREY: ( reading ) Insert substance. Highly volatile drying agent? The greedy motherfucker! He's cutting the dope.
BURNETT: Yeah, but Julie told me his ship comes in on Friday? You wanna tell me who can cut a hundred mil worth a dope in five days? You'd need whole lotta time cards to make that kinda date.
LOWREY: Or one really smart sonofabitch.
HOWARD: We're in the shit, boys. And there ain't gonna be any more time cards for this unit unless somebody pulls a miracle out of their ass.
JULIE: I'm getting really tired of this
BURNETT: Hey, Jojo. Through the office window, Jojo sees Burnett and sud- denly bolts out the rear door and runs smack dab into Lowrey, who body checks him back up against the office Good runnin' into you, Jojo.
LOWREY: Good runnin' into you, Jojo.
BURNETT: Hey, calm down. A little rap, that's all. We're lookin' for someone who can step on a shitload of heroin. And do it real fast, and real well. We're lookin' for a pro.
JOJO: I'm in the rubber business now.
BURNETT: We're not playin' around with you, Jojo. You know what we I'm tellin' you straight up, like a straight fuckin' arrow, okay? I'm straight as a board. I'm so straight it's fuckin' Now there's a lotta dope, Jojo. Who can cut it quick?
JOJO: I'm tellin' you straight up, like a straight fuckin' arrow, okay? I'm straight as a board. I'm so straight it's fuckin' Now there's a lotta dope, Jojo. Who can cut it quick?
BURNETT: Now there's a lotta dope, Jojo. Who can cut it quick?
JOJO: You mean, cut it. cut it up, yeah. I don't know anything about Lowrey's had it. He pulls his gun and pushes in.
JOJO: Hey, man. I can't believe you're puttin' a gun on me. You're a cop. I turn you into 'Hard Copy,' man. Put you on the T.V. set.
BURNETT: What are you doin', man? As Burnett tries to intercede, they talk over each other.
BURNETT: ( chimes in again ) Remember, partner. He's no good to us if you splatter his ass.
JOJO: Okay, okay. I definitely don't know for sure. But I know a little for sure. Three guys. well, two guys and one of them's dead. Crazy rocket-scientist, Einstein fuckin' guy. Got some rich mommy and daddy. Tell you where he's at.
LOWREY: ( holsters guns ) Man, it's a good thing you got your memory workin'. Cuz that dead man paperwork is a bitch.
JULIE: So where's the coffee and donuts?
BURNETT: I thought that was the usual menu when cops were on stakeout. A little caffeine for the heart. Some sugar-coated dough fried in day old grease.
JULIE: I thought that was the usual menu when cops were on stakeout. A little caffeine for the heart. Some sugar-coated dough fried in day old grease.
LOWREY: Man. Will you get off this? You're making me sick.
JULIE: Oh, I'm sorry, Marcus. All these hours on the case, you must miss Theresa's home cooking. Bet last night she fixed you up something yummy and left it in the microwave for you. Burnett starts to steam.
LOWREY: Yeah. Somethin' yummy.
JULIE: I imagine there was something yummy waiting for you when you finally made it to bed
BURNETT: ( wheels ) Listen, lady
LOWREY: Oh, man. It's the fuckin' pretend BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/24/94 PM 92.
BURNETT: Be nice. After tomorrow we might need 'em for a job reference. Lowrey rolls down his driver's window in time to hear.
TOWNE: Well, what do we have back here? Looks like we got us two pimps and a hooker.
DE SOUZA: Hey, fellahs. Maybe if she does us both we'll let you leave with your pride intact.
LOWREY: Excuse me. One moment. Let's fuck with these bozos. Burnett nods his approval. Lowrey lowers the window.
LOWREY: Now, where were we?
TOWNE: Outta the car. Hands where we can see 'em. Feet spread. Both hobby cops open the doors for Lowrey and Burnett respectively. Looks pass between them as they step out and assume the positions. And Towne starts by frisking Burnett's shoulders.
BURNETT: Oh, that's not how you frisk a potential lawbreaker. You gotta start at the waistband. See if he's carrying a piece. Towne stalls a beat, then self-consciously goes to Burnett's waistband where he feels a
TOWNE: Both hobby cops instantly withdraw, their own pieces drawn and leveled on Burnett and Lowrey.
LOWREY: Whoah. You better watch it, You know, it would be very bad if you shot and killed two helpless pimps and a call girl. But it would be even worse if you shot two policemen and their witness on a stakeout. Looks pass between the hobby cops.
LOWREY: ( slowly turns ) Now I'm reaching slowly for my shield. very slowly. here it comes. just about got it. ( reveals his badge ) Ooh, look at that. It's a detective's shield! All gold and shiny. A smart fellah wouldn't fuck with somebody who had one of these in his pocket. So. Let's see. I guess that makes us policemen. And you.
BURNETT: He shows his shield. Both hobby cops lower their guns, unsure about what's next. Burnett moves in.
BURNETT: Now, some rent-a-cops have licenses to carry weapons, where others do not. Which might you be? You wouldn't happen to have those permits handy, would you? From the looks on the hobby cops' faces, Julie can see that they don't.
JULIE: Guess we know the answer to that BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/22/94 94.
BURNETT: I bet you miss your wife, kids. I bet you miss them a whole lot.
LOWREY: I don't worry. They're in good Theresa gives a peek out the window. There's another suspicious car on the street.
SANCHEZ: Are you kidding, man? Desi was the brains behind the whole operation. That's why they called their company Desilu. Desi was first. Lucy second. Get it? Desi-Lu?
BURNETT: Two o'clock. The red Civic.
BURNETT: Let's just hope he didn't come home for a nap.
LOWREY: I'm on him. Hey, buckle up back there.
JULIE: Lowrey has the keys in the ignition and is stomping on the gas.
MORNING: Elliot's out of the car in a flash and crawling aboard the ship. But as he disappears, Casper appears with his own pair of binoculars.
BURNETT: They've made us. Let's move. Lowrey FLOORS it.
BURNETT: Yeah. Tell Howard to assemble the troops. We just made the dope lab. We'll be at the P.D. in one hour.
JULIE: So what am I gonna do?
LOWREY: You're gonna keep your sweet ass nice and quiet back at my place.
JULIE: Mike's place. I said Mike's. Lowrey rolls his eyes. He can't wait for this to end.
LOWREY: Mike's place. I said Mike's. Lowrey rolls his eyes. He can't wait for this to end.
QUINCY: Hey, it's Dad and Uncle Mike.
THERESA: Kids, you go over to the neighbors' house. I'll be right BAD BOYS - Rev. 6/22/94 97.
JULIE: Where you going?
THERESA: Mommy's going to Cleveland.
CHET: Lady, all visitors must be Announce this! In a motherly flash, she's got Chet by the ear and she's dragging him over to the elevator. He yowls the whole way until he sticks his master pass-card in the elevator lock. Theresa lets go.
THERESA: Announce this! In a motherly flash, she's got Chet by the ear and she's dragging him over to the elevator. He yowls the whole way until he sticks his master pass-card in the elevator lock. Theresa lets go.
JULIE: So, I guess when you get back, it's gonna be over.
LOWREY: That's the plan. So, Mike. Loan some of those ass kicking clothes.
BURNETT: Third drawer down. Hey, Julie. Do me a favor and see who that is.
JULIE: Which one do you want? The tall one or the short one?
THERESA: Oh, I got plenty in me to kill 'em both. But it's the short one I'm gonna divorce. She pushes past.
JULIE: Thought so. Julie watches Theresa charge headlong into
LOWREY: Man, I can't wait to see the look on Howard's face when we tell Holy shit! Hi, Theresa. honey.
THERESA: Save your crap, Mike.
LOWREY: Mike what? What'd he do?
BURNETT: Theresa. It's not how it looks.
THERESA: It ain't Cleveland, neither.
LOWREY: Where's Julie? Lowrey pushes past Theresa into
LOWREY: Julie. We wanted to tell you. I especially wanted to tell you
JULIE: You think I didn't know? God, you are so stupid! And to think I let you use me like you did, Max. Wait. I know why. Because you said you needed me. Jesus, who's the stupid one now?
LOWREY: Wait. I know why. Because you said you needed me. Jesus, who's the stupid one now?
JULIE: Wait. I know why. Because you said you needed me. Jesus, who's the stupid one now?
LOWREY: We still need you.
JULIE: Fuck you!
THERESA: You stayed away from home just one night too many, Marcus.
BURNETT: Theresa. She's a material witness! It was orders!
FOUCHET: enters, with Casper and Ferguson to either side.
FOUCHET: Grab her. But the doors to the second elevator open.
LOWREY: Julie! Drop now!
BURNETT: Pushes Theresa back into the elevator, making her lay on the floor as BULLETS CUT above.
LOWREY: Slips behind a pillar as BULLETS WHIZ past.
JULIE: On floor. In the middle. Crawling for cover when
FOUCHET: With balls the size of Pennsylvania. Two GUNS in hand, walks forward with barrels fixed and FIRING. Clips out on one, tosses the gun aside, then, with his free hand, reaches down and grabs Julie by the hair and lifts her until she stands.
FOUCHET: Let's go!
LOWREY: Swings around the pillar, gun leveled and running after 232 INT. LOWREY LOBBY - ELEVATOR - BURNETT AND THERESA 232 Into the open elevator, Burnett slides his gun over to Burnett presses the close door button. The doors close just as Theresa reaches for him, calling
LOWREY: 232 INT. LOWREY LOBBY - ELEVATOR - BURNETT AND THERESA 232
BURNETT: Go upstairs. And don't let anybody in but me. Do it! Burnett presses the close door button. The doors close just as Theresa reaches for him, calling
THERESA: Marcus, I love you.
WHEELCHAIR: Empty and spinning.
FOUCHET: Out of the car! The doors fly open and all three are out in the middle of the stalled traffic, Julie being drug along with them. The gang cuts down an alley.
LOWREY: enters. He dives to the floor as Casper stops and FIRES. BULLETS RIP through the salon walls and mirrors. Lowrey ends up under an old lady's dress.
FOUCHET: He sees his chance and GUNS the ENGINE. The cab barrels at Burnett, who's stuck in the middle of the boulevard, about to become instant roadkill. 244 EXT. STREET 244 From out of nowhere, here comes Lowrey. Dashing out across the boulevard and snatching his partner from the deadly grille of the cab.
TAXI CAB: hauls on by. Leaving Burnett and Lowrey in a heap of their own, both trying to catch their breath.
LOWREY: Don't ever say I wasn't there for
HOWARD: It's about fuckin' time.
BURNETT: We lost the girl.
HOWARD: But you found the dope, right? So let's go get it back. Which one of you's Lowrey? I got somethin' for him.
BOY: Which one of you's Lowrey? I got somethin' for him.
LOWREY: At least I'm me again. I'm Lowrey.
LOWREY: ( presses send ) Yeah. This is Lowrey.
FOUCHET: I have something for you to listen Fouchet lifts his PISTOL and FIRES a single shot. BAM!
INTERCUT WITH: 247 EXT. MIAMI PD - MOTORPOOL - LOWREY 247
FOUCHET: That bullet just killed the chemist. Now, I have but four hours left to make my deal. Fuck with my timetable and the next bullet kills the girl. Julie is gagged and sitting on the floor, scared He's in a vice. Duty or the girl. Then
LOWREY: You twisted motherfucker. Jojo, you sonofabitch. When I get my hands on you, I swear, I'm gonna kill you. The snitch who tipped us to the dope lab? Turns out to be a bogus address.
BURNETT: Bogus address?
HOWARD: How's this? I'll kill the little prick for you. That's cuz you're already dead. Okay, you guys. Put 'em back in the lockers.
BURNETT: How'd he know we were gearing up to go? It's like he's known all along where we're gonna be and You know that once he sells the dope, he's gonna kill her just like he did Max.
LOWREY: You know that once he sells the dope, he's gonna kill her just like he did Max.
BURNETT: Three little angels. Julie kept talking about his three little A barkeeper appears with two beers. Burnett automati- cally reaches for his wallet.
LOWREY: If she dies, I'm done with it. The whole cop thing.
BURNETT: ( looking at his Three little angels.
FRANCINE: Hey, fellahs. What's the joke. Really. I want to know. Soon, though, the facade fades. Francine knows she's been caught.
FRANCINE: It was a birthday party. You know, after hours. Just the civilian staff. We were drinking. And everybody. They all had boy friends or their husbands.
LOWREY: So you were alone?
FRANCINE: He was so nice to me. He said I was beautiful, too. I guess I wanted to believe him. He took some horrible pictures of me. I don't remember any of it. I'd had too much to drink. I wondered if he'd drugged me. Later. he threatened to show them to my boys. my little angels. Said he'd pin the pictures up on the grade school bulletin boards for all their classmates to see if I didn't do what he wanted.
BURNETT: He wanted someone inside the P.D.?
FRANCINE: At first, it was about drug busts. Dealers under surveillance.
BURNETT: Anything you can tell us about him?
FRANCINE: What do you say about someone who rips off drug dealers? A man like that ain't scared of nobody. Not the police. Not you guys. He's the scariest man I ever met.
LOWREY: Yeah. But does he still trust what you tell him?
FOUCHET: 254 INT. HOWARD'S OFFICE - DAY 254
FRANCINE: I have some more information for you, Mr. Fouchet.
FOUCHET: Yes, Francine. What is it?
FRANCINE: Miami P.D.'s called in the D.E.A. task force. They know the deal's going down in just two hours. So they've deployed agents to every point of entry, airports, marinas, Is that all?
FOUCHET: Is that all?
FRANCINE: I'm very pleased, Francine. You're the best pet I've ever He hangs up.
FOUCHET: I'm very pleased, Francine. You're the best pet I've ever He hangs up.
SANCHEZ: Got him! Ma Bell says as long as he keeps his cellular phone turned on, we can track him.
BURNETT: Call Howard. Tell him we're gonna need lotsa back-up.
JULIE: I forget the formula. Big gun, big dick? No. Little gun, big dick? No. Big gun, little dick? Yeah. Yeah. I think that's it.
SANCHEZ: They're turning north onto the Orange Highway.
BURNETT: We can make better time if we cut across the Biscayne Bridge.
DAY: As the convoy makes a right turn off the highway onto an old tar and gravel track.
AIRFIELD: The trucks roll toward an old airport which consists of a small, pilot's terminal and four or so hangars spread out over the ten acre site.
BURNETT: That's it. That's where they're making the deal.
BUYER: Three hundred million and very, very fresh. Too much to count,
ON JULIE: As Casper pulls her from the rear of a truck and handcuffs her to the door of a cab.
BUYER: Who's the bimbo?
FOUCHET: Simply part of another
BURNETT: Mouths shut, feet moving. Now, As it lifts once again to the air, this time dumping the two henchmen into the truck.
CASPER: Hey! Wake up out there! Open it up!
ENGINE ROARS!: 282 INT. HANGAR - ONE CANVAS-BACKED TRUCK 282
BULLETS: RIP across the dumpster, moving up into the truck cab. Ruiz and Sanchez dive and roll to either side. Meanwhile, the sparks ignite the spilled fuel.
LOWREY: Move it or lose it!
SANCHEZ: Remember us? The two bad guys turn with their guns. The flames igniting their already battered faces. But they don't turn fast enough. Both cops FIRE in unison. Ferguson and Casper fall. PULL BACK
LOWREY: JULIE ( O.S. )
FOUCHET: I was going to fuck her, then kill her. Now it looks like I'm only going to do the latter.
LOWREY: Either we O.D. on the air or the whole place blows. We're dying anyway.
BURNETT: Let her go and you'll walk. You can keep the dope and the money. Just the girl and we all get out of here.
FOUCHET: What if I don't have the key.
JULIE: He threw it in the
FOUCHET: ( yanks her ) Shut up! It's gone. She's dead. Unless you move aside.
FOUCHET: Pulls Julie closer. Gun at her head. Looking to Burnett. While Lowrey is nodding to Julie. Nodding for her to
LOWREY: Drop, Julie!
BURNETT: Sanchez and Ruiz.
LOWREY: ( hands up for all Don't shoot!!! Hold your fire!!!
FOUCHET: Twisting Julie for all to see. The cops' rifle sights, all glinting in the sun.
FOUCHET: I'll kill the girl!!!
HOWARD: Then he turns to Sinclair, who stands only feet away.
HOWARD: Investigate that, asshole.
JULIE: Ow. This shit really hurts.
LOWREY: Stick around. I'll give you a bullet to bite. SANCHEZ AND RUIZ They appear. Alive and well. Big grins, helping Burnett to his feet. Brushing him off.
BURNETT: Hey, hey. Let's go get our jobs back.
BURNETT KIDS: Daddy Daddy Daddy the hero!!!
BURNETT: Daddy's home!
BURNETT KIDS: Uncle Mike, Uncle Mike.
BURNETT: Theresa framed in the front doorway, looking smashing in the outfit Lowrey picked out for her. Burnett ambles up the walk into her arms. They hug and kiss, Theresa tossing a wink Lowrey's way.
LOWREY: Manana, partner. Peace. Okay, kids. Pile in. And watch the leather and windows this time?
JULIE: You got a real way with kids, You see anybody complaining?
LOWREY: You see anybody complaining?
BURNETT: Hey. Where are the kids goin'?
THERESA: Didn't you know? We got us a new
BURNETT: You mean.
THERESA: It's quality time, Marcus.
THE END: Writers : Michael Barrie Jim Mulholland Doug Richardson
