FIRST DRAFT: This story takes place during a World Series between the Mets and the A's. Canseco plays for Oakland, and Strawberry is still with New York.
LT: How many times are you gonna miss the bus? Huh? All the other kids can get up in the morning, but you guys wanna be driven around like the fucking President. I'm your goddamn Shit, man. It wasn't our fault! You think Sis is so perfect, well, if she hadn't hogged the fucking bathroom, maybe we I thought Aunt Lu was dead! She was in there so Shut up! Listen!
TWINS: ( each taking alternate, overlapping lines ) Shit, man. It wasn't our fault! You think Sis is so perfect, well, if she hadn't hogged the fucking bathroom, maybe we I thought Aunt Lu was dead! She was in there so Shut up! Listen!
LT: Shut up! Listen!
TWIN: They're gonna win the Series in four!
LT: All the way with Strawberry!
TWINS: ( in unison )
LT: Shit, man there's your fucking bus I oughtta make you late! Make the nuns whack the shit outa ya both.
LT: Get going.
BET COP: Two Black kids came up out of nowhere and shot those chicks. Then they laughed as they walked away. The Press is gonna call it the "Giggling Man Murders." I'll tell ya. What a
BET COP: But hey we make the best of it, man, don't we? Huh? How about them
LT: No fucking way they're gonna do it in four games straight.
COP ONE: You serious, man? I wanna go Mets all the way!
LT: Go ahead, man.If you've got shit for brains. But if you wanna win the bucks, go with Oakland.
COP TWO: I thought Strawberry was gonna
LT: I know that nigger like he's my brother. He ain't gonna let us off so easy. He'll make us sweat first. This game's going to Oakland. Not a doubt in my mind, man.
BET COP: I'm in. Here.
AVENUE: LT pulls up alone beside a PHONE BOOTH and phones in the COPS' bets and his own to LITE. More than an anonymous connection to the BOOKIE, LITE is obviously LT's old friend and a hustler just like himself. LT shouts into the PHONE and holds it close to his ear. The TRAFFIC NOISE is loud and irritating.
LT: ( into the phone ) I got them all going for Oakland. With bullshit money. We'll cover the
LITE: ( OC ) All right. What are you gonna do?
LT: I want 15 on the Mets.
LITE: ( OC ) How about 7 1/2?
LT: Hey, man. Don't give me that bullshit. Don't pussy-out on me. The Mets are a fucking lock. I wanna make some Are you sure?
LITE: Are you sure?
LT: Yeah. I'm sure.
BUSINESSMAN: Police! Police! Help me! Police!
LT: Hey, man, gimme something cooked!
LT: It's good shit. From when they busted those Columbians uptown. You can cut it in half.
LT: I got this guy. But there's someone across the street on the roof!
JC: That stuff'll kill you quick, man.
LT: What the fuck are you? A drug counselor or a drug dealer? And you don't even do your own product! What kind of businessman are you?
JC: The rich kind. Jeez, man. The way you smoke that shit is suicide.
LT: Fuck you. Just give me back a little something for the road.
JC: See you in a coupla days. Have the cash ready.
ARIANE: Got something good for us?
ARIANE: I'm gonna need some bread, man. This ain't fair. I'm always here for you, and you can't even take decent care of me. My landlord is bitching like a motherfucker! You're two months behind on the rent, Lieutenant!
LT: Didya ever think of moving to a cheaper apartment? $3,500 a month is crazy, man!
ARIANE: It's nothing. This is New York, man. Oh I forgot. Bowtay needs some cash to buy her new acting headshots out of the developers. It's a good investment, man. She could make serious money!
ARIANE: We've been rehearsing a new monologue. From Shad's Saint Joan, you know? Bowtay does it wonderfully well.
LT: All right, Bowtay. Show us your stuff.
ARIANE: ( OC - calling to LT ) There's nothing!
ARIANE: ( OC - calling to LT ) Go out and get some Diet Cokes.
LT: ( to Cop ) What's going on?
COP: Uh, Lieutenant, Sir The owner says they stole cash from the register. He was chasing them down the block when I caught up with them.
LT: Shut the fuck up!
LT: ( to Cop ) Go get me a Bud. A High Boy. And make sure it's fucking cold. ( indicates the situation at hand ) I'll straighten this out.
LT: How much did they take?
KOREAN OWNER: Five hundred dollars cash.
LT: ( orders the Cop ) Take this guy down to the Precinct. I need to talk to him.
LT: Gimme the money! Now!
LT: Give me the fucking money, assholes!
LT: What the fuck are ya standing there for? Be gone!
LT: Take over until your boss gets back. Gimme a 6 of Diet Cokes and a 6 of
ARIANE: I got you a present. Better shit then you got, cop!
LT: Brown Downtown. There hasn't been any smoking brown on the street in
ARIANE: Who said anything about the fucking street. I've got more connects than you have, Lieutenant.
LT: Did I win? Shit! The game!
LT: ( to background family members ) What's the score? What's the fucking
ANCIENT AUNT: I dunno.
LT: ( to himself ) Why me, man?
LT: ( to the Twins ) Shut the fuck up! Did you see that?
TWINS: ( shrug - in unison ) It's 7-0: Oakland. ( single Twin ) That nigger could have let it drop and gone home.
LT: Hey, Veronica baby, looking good! What's going down?
VERONICA: ( confidentially - to
LT ): Willie got shot by one of his boys. But there's a ki under the back seat.
LT: I'll put it in my trunk.
LT: ( soft, sardonic ) I guess he was a bigtime dealer. ( beat ) What d'ya know. A kilo of 'caine. Where the fuck did that come from?
SERGEANT: Where the fuck did that come from?
LT: ( to himself ) I can't fucking believe it. But I still can't fucking believe they'd rape a nun, man.
COP A: But I still can't fucking believe they'd rape a nun, man.
LT: ( to the Cops ) What's this shit about a nun getting Where the fuck have you been? It happened this morning, up at St. Dominiek's in Spanish Harlem. A coupla punks tore up the place and then gave it to the nuns but good.
COP B: Where the fuck have you been? It happened this morning, up at St. Dominiek's in Spanish Harlem. A coupla punks tore up the place and then gave it to the nuns but good.
LT: What's going on?
FIRST COP: They raped a nun and tore up the church they even took a crap on the altar. Up in Spanish Harlem.
SECOND COP: She was only seventeen.
FIRST COP: Who the fuck could do this?!
SECOND COP: Jesus. What's she gonna tell her I'm gonna kill those motherfuckers.
THIRD COP: The Church already put up a $50,000 Well, one of us is gonna get it. I mean get them.
FIRST COP: Well, one of us is gonna get it. I mean get them.
FIRST COP: Here's to payback for the nuns!
SECOND COP: Anyone got any leads, at all?
FIRST COP: We got shit to go on. Only that list of inventory what they stole from the church.
THIRD COP: Y'know they actually stole those wacky purple robes? And they took the chalice with the Host still What did they want with the Host?
SECOND COP: What did they want with the Host?
THIRD COP: They were hungry. I dunno. They didn't want to hock the Host, they wanted to hock that golden chalice.
LT: Leave it to the Catholic Church, man. Girls get raped everyday, and now they're gonna pay 50 G just because these chicks wore penguin
LT: The Church is a racket.
LT: OLD IRISH COP BET COP ( to LT ) ( beat )
BET COP: ( to LT ) To Hell with this God stuff. How's that Strawberry? He does what ever you want him to, huh Lieutenant? Even strike out! ( beat ) I bet you won a shitload on Oakland. How much, huh?
LT: More than you did.
LT: If you know what's good for you, you'll keep staying on Oakland!
BET COP: Oakland? Is that how you're going?
LT: Yeah. Sure. Don't you get it? The series has gotta last seven games. The last two did, didn't they? It's a racket. Do you have any idea how much money they make selling television-time for commercials during the series? Especially if it's a New York team? They won't close the gold mine after only four games. It'll last a full seven. Too many people wanna milk it for what it's worth. You'll see!
BET COP: All right. I'm in. After all, you're the expert. Ain't that right, LT?
LT: You'll be sorry, man. But if you wanna be a sissy, here's your bread.
COP ONE: Strawberry? I thought we were going with Oakland.
LT: We are, man! That's the point! If the Mets win, it's thanks to Strawberry. If Oakland wins, it's thanks to Strawberry. Nothing can happen out there on the field that don't gotta do with Strawberry. So here's to Strawberry!
THE NUN: The HOSPITAL is an inferno. LT exploits his cop privileges; shows his BADGE to the GUARDS. He wants to get into the inner sanctum. Beyond where even COPS were allowed to go. He wants to get to the NUN. A sexy NURSE stops him.
NURSE: Can I help you?
LT: I'm in charge of the investigation. Just checking security.
NURSE: ( Suspicious ) Do you want those guys coming back? For the nun? Or for you?
LT: Do you want those guys coming back? For the nun? Or for you?
DOCTOR: ( to Female Cop ) They inserted a crucifix eleven centimeters into her vaginal aperture, breaking the hymen membrane. Then they pursued the same course with their natural organs of sexual penetration. They used a sharp object, probably a hunting knife with a curved blade, to carve a cross between her shoulder blades, entering the flesh an average of nearly one centimeter throughout the area of the wound.
LT: Have you ever seen a naked nun? I tell you, man, I went to school with the nuns, I've seen hundreds since then and I've never even seen a nun's belly button, you understand? But this nun, let me tell you. What a beautiful lady. And where'd the Church get the 50 G in the first place? The fucking Church is the biggest scam going. You know what's the real killer? It costs $8,000 per kid for them to go to parochial school. I've got three kids in there already, with two on the way! Christ. That fucking reward is my money, man! But that's Church policy. The Pope is the world's biggest bookie. Makes people bet on their own salvation! Double or nothing on Heaven. You go to Hell then go to Hell. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was bullshit.
ARIANE: I can't get over what those guys did to her. I just can't.
LT: They're alive, aren't they? Come on, man! Everyone's making such a fucking fuss, just because she's a nun. Just because she wears a penguin suit, the church puts up 50 G for the guys who dared to rape her. Do you think they'd put up a dime if you got raped? Of course not. Or even for your little sister? The virgin? Like shit they Susie's not a virgin anymore.
ARIANE: Susie's not a virgin anymore.
LT: She's fucking nine years old! Jesus
ARIANE: And the nun's not a virgin anymore, either. Will they make her leave the
LT: Who knows? Who knows what their policy But I'll tell you, man, that nun. She was beautiful. Just beautiful. Tall. Real tall. I've never seen anything like it.
LT: ( to himself ) Lite, man. Where the fuck are you?
ARIANE: It's horrible. They burned her breasts with cigarettes. Christ.
LT: Yeah? At least she's alive! I see people get killed every day! Worse yet, tortured first and then killed! The nuns got off easy. Jeez. Cigarette burns. Everyone's all upset about fucking cigarette burns. I'll show you cigarette burns!
ARIANE: Do you believe in God? Do you believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God?.
LT: ( to LITE; over the phone ) Yeah, I know, I know all about it. Enough already about the fucking nuns. Yeah. Yeah. So just take the bet. Don't give me any hassles, man. Just put in my bet. 30 G's. Yeah. And I got $900 from the cops on Oakland. Yeah. Right. Strawberry's gonna knock em dead. Of course he is! You know that! Yeah. Yeah. Have faith, man! OK. Right.
ARIANE: Do you believe in God?
LT: The Church is a fucking racket. I know how they operate. I've been part of the racket since the first time some faggot priest spilt water on my head. My Aunt Lu says I was crying all the way through. Yeah, I know their game inside out. Now I'm free of it and I'm gonna stay that I'm not talking about the fucking Church. Fuck the Church. But tell me. Do you believe in God?
ARIANE: I'm not talking about the fucking Church. Fuck the Church. But tell me. Do you believe in God?
LT: What's to believe?
ARIANE: That Jesus Christ was the Son of God and he came to die for your sins.
ARIANE: Your sins, Lieutenant! And look around you! Where do you think all this shit came from?
LT: You believe that man is the be-all and end-all?
ARIANE: You believe that man is the be-all and end-all?
LT: OK. OK. Fine. But do you believe in God?
ARIANE: OK. OK. Fine. But do you believe in God?
LT: I believe in God the Father Almighty, Creator of Heaven and Earth.
LT: You wouldn't put some religious trip on me, would you?
JERSEY GIRL: Uh-uh. What?
LT: Good. Show me your papers.
LT: Who's this person? It ain't you, and it ain't you, so who is it?
GIRL: My Aunt.
LT: So you took the car from you Aunt. Stole it. Am I right?
GIRL: We were gonna give it back! We're on our way home, now!
LT: Yeah, yeah.
LT: Now why don't I just call up your Aunt right now and tell her what's gone down. How about that?
LT: Well, I'm sure we could arrange something. Unless you fancy a few days in jail.
TIME PASSES: CUT TO:
COP 1: Can't you tell us anything? Sisters? Anything at all?
ELDERLY NUN: They broke my glasses. I didn't see anything, but I did hear them. They were young. And there were two of them. They spoke Spanish. One of them was named Julio. Julio. Great. There are 20,000 spics named "Julio".
LT: ( to Older Cop ) Julio. Great. There are 20,000 spics named "Julio".
ELDERLY NUN: I would tell you more if I could. I am so sorry, Officers.
COP 2: What about you, Sister? Won't you tell us anything? Listen. One nun is nearly 80 years old. I'm not from this Church, of course, but I assume they'll be getting her a new pair of glasses. Apparently she's legally blind without them. The Sister who suffered a rape is just 17. She arrived from Ireland only a couple of months ago. This event is just too much for them to take!
MONSIGNOR: Listen. One nun is nearly 80 years old. I'm not from this Church, of course, but I assume they'll be getting her a new pair of glasses. Apparently she's legally blind without them. The Sister who suffered a rape is just 17. She arrived from Ireland only a couple of months ago. This event is just too much for them to take!
MONSIGNOR: Listen. The Church would like to know who did it just as much as the NYPD. These arrant criminals broke the laws of man, and the laws of God. The Church wants nothing more than to see them behind bars. That's why we're offering the $50,000 reward to whomever brings them in. I'm sure our hero will be one of New York's
FIFTH AVENUE: LT is driving through HEAVY TRAFFIC while listening to GAME FIVE on the RADIO. He COKES UP. He mumbles to himself. GAME FIVE is close, and features STRAWBERRY. As LT listens, he reacts physically to the changing status of the game. He drives crazy through the streets, pounds the ceiling. He's so COKED, he's bouncing out of his skin. LT drinks VODKA out of a PINT BOTTLE in his COAT. STRAWBERRY overthrows a sacrifice fly from Canseco and the A's WIN. LT shoots out the CAR RADIO. LT LOSES! He's $30,000 down. Covering himself, he puts the LIGHTS on top of his CAR. Turns the SIREN on. Screaming CURSES, he drives through the streets, careening like a madman. PEDESTRIANS run away in terror.
COMMUNION: CU  LT'S EIGHT YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER takes the WAFER for the first time. LT is dressed to kill. Looks like a corpse. He watches his DAUGHTER'S First Communion and is truly moved. Remembers his own past. While the rest of the attendant EXTENDED FAMILY, FRIENDS, and SOME COPS enter the COMMUNION PARADE, LT stands alone at the back of the CHURCH like an usher. He holds the COLLECTION BASKET and quietly watches the whole scene. LT, his betting friend who is not a cop comes up beside him.
LITE: OK asshole. You owe thirty grand. Now what are you gonna do?
LT: I wanna go double or nothing on the next game.
LITE: Double or nothing? Are you fucking out of your mind?
LT: I'm not gonna let that bastard take my money
LITE: Take your money? This guy will blow up your house and everyone in it!
LT: ( stoic ) There's just no way the Mets will lose this game. Gooden is pitching and Strawberry is ready to break
LITE: Fuck Strawberry. You're gonna end up owing 60 G to a homicidal maniac!
LT: That's my problem. Just put in my
NUN: Forgive me Father, for I have sinned. It has been two days since my last confession. Father, my sin is a terrible sin. A sin of omission. There was another sin that happened at the same time, and in the same place, but my sin I think was graver Sister, we all know what happened to you yesterday morning. I expected that you would want to speak to me about it. But you could have come to my office. Your being here, in the confessional, implies that you, Sister, have done something wrong. You haven't. I assure you. I feared you might have misplaced feelings of guilt. If you condemn yourself because you experienced feelings of. curiosity or even. pleasure, you
PRIEST: Sister, we all know what happened to you yesterday morning. I expected that you would want to speak to me about it. But you could have come to my office. Your being here, in the confessional, implies that you, Sister, have done something wrong. You haven't. I assure you. I feared you might have misplaced feelings of guilt. If you condemn yourself because you experienced feelings of. curiosity or even. pleasure, you
NUN: Father, if it was so trivial, so natural, so No. I have sinned. And you must listen if you are to prescribe an appropriate act of contrition, and to absolve me. Father, what would you do if you had but one day in which to use your arms to serve God?
PRIEST: It's funny, you knew. But the first thing I think of is kneading the bread that I help bake for the soup kitchen. Maybe that's because my the muscles in my arms still hurt.
NUN: I also thought of that bread, Father. And of that night six days ago when the Mother Superior died, and I kept the cool, damp cloth on her forehead freshly moist. Father, what would you do if you had but one day in which to use your legs to serve God?
PRIEST: I think of running for help, and falling to my knees in prayer.
NUN: As I have prayed day and night since the desecration of this church yesterday morning and my sin. You see, Father
PRIEST: Yes, Sister?
NUN: Yesterday morning, God gave me but one chance to use something else to serve Him. Not my arms or my legs, but something I used for the first time, for the last time, and will never use again. My vagina.
NUN: Those boys, those sad, raging boys. They came to me as the needy do. And like many of the needy, they were rude. Like all the needy, they took. And like all the needy, they needed. Father. I knew them; They learn in our school. And play in our schoolyard. And they are good boys.
PRIEST: You knew them? Who were they, Sister? Who are these boys? What are the names of these good boys you knew?
NUN: I could tell you their names now, and I know you'd be bound by a sacred vow to keep my secret. But I cannot tell you their names. For I, too, am bound. As I am bound now to confess my sins. So listen, Father Listen. I am a nun. What did I give those boys that they could not have found elsewhere? Nothing. Nothing at all. There were always two of us in the act. The act was half my own. It does not seem to me the act was half the act of a once of Christ. It is the lost chance that will remain on the ledger of my sins. Not the loss of my virginity. The rape forced upon me a choice. As a vessel of the spirit. I could have imbued my vagina with God. Or, I could have turned away from God and voided my body of spirit, so that all that was left for those boys was a lump of flesh. I chose the second path. The easier, path. The path of the material world. The path no nun has the right to take. And so, I sinned. My vagina spread, but spread no word. It opened, on nothingness. It gave nothing at all and left nothing behind. No trace of my act, yes my act. For I was there, too, remains in the landscape of God.
NUN: Jesus turned water to wine. I ought to have turned bitter semen to fertile sperm hatred to love. And maybe to have saved their souls. They did not love me. I ought to have loved them. As Jesus loved those who reviled him. I ought to have surprised those boys. Instead, they surprised me, and got no surprise at all. No, they did not rape a nun. But a nun has been raped. And the nun must now atone for her sin. For a God-given part of her was wasted. A part which other women use for procreation, for conjugal fulfillment, for expressions of love. I had but one chance. And I did nothing but react in pain. When those boys placed their hands upon my breasts, they had nothing but an assortment of skin cells in their grasp. They ought to have felt, through me. The bosom of their Redeemer. When they lay on top of me and looked down into my eyes, they saw fear. They should have met the eyes of a lover, And felt the presence of the Prince of Peace. My vagina. I shall never have again. And never again shall I encounter two boys whose prayer was more legible, more poignant, more anguished. Two young men who threw themselves upon the altar and took me with them. And I did nothing for them. I can only hope that someone
WORLD SERIES: The MASSIVE CROWD ROARS. The STADIUM is decked out in the RED, WHITE, and BLUE BUNTING signifying the WORLD SERIES. A ROW OF UNIFORMED COPS is in the front row. Among them LT. He watches STRAWBERRY as With winning runs on, STRAWBERRY takes strike three, to lose the game. As STRAWBERRY walks off the field, he and LT face off. One on one. LT has lost the $60,000 bet. He knows how heavy this is. That his life is new in danger. The CROWD vents its rage. The deafening SOUND takes on a sensuous rhythm and becomes DANCE MUSIC, as From EXTREME CU - the BLACK FACE OF STRAWBERRY, we
LITE: Do you have the money?
LT: ( giggles ) What money?
LITE: Don't bullshit me.
LT: I don't got it. Not tonight. You can't get blood from a stone.
LITE: This psycho can.
LT: Oooo. Big fucking scary guy. Just put $120,000 on tomorrow's game.
LITE: ( laughs in his face ) You're a fucking joke, you know that? ( turns grim ) He's been waiting for the money since the fucking game ended. And I've been waiting here since forget it. Listen up. You're gonna get us both fucking killed. You know that!
LT: Uh-uh. I'm gonna win. Just make sure the bet gets in.
LITE: You do know that he's gonna blow up your house, kill your wife and kids
LT: Good. I'll give him an extra 10 grand for his trouble. I hate that motherfucking house and
LITE: He's gonna kill you, man. Do you hear me, motherfucker? You. Dead. Get it?
LT: I've been dodging bullets since I was fourteen. No one can kill me. I'm fucking blessed. I'm fucking
LITE: How's the case going?
LT: What case?
LITE: The fucking rapists, man. The punks who raped that nun. The $50,000 reward from the Church! Remember?
LT: Yeah. Sure. Yeah. We're on it bigtime. Lots of leads. You bet.
LITE: That 50 G could help you
LT: The Mets are gonna win the Series. They're a lock.
LT: Get this, man. I was at the game today. Face to fucking face with Strawberry! Jesus! I saw him strikeout. And you know what? He looked at me, and I looked at him, and he laughed and I laughed and it was like we were all alone in that whole stadium and only we understood that it was all a racket, that he struck out on purpose, and that he's saving it up for the Big One. Tomorrow. Today I understood for the very first time that
LITE: You've really got a problem.
LT: that there was never any other way it could have gone. Never any other way. So you had better just put in my fucking bet. $120,000 on the last game. The Big One. Come on! Are you a bookmaker, or fucking Here. Look I'll give you the psyho's number You call him yourself and tell him wnat you want.
LITE: Here. Look I'll give you the psyho's number You call him yourself and tell him wnat you want.
LITE: You couldn't pay 60. You lose, you'll be in for 180. To a guy who kills people for nothing. I was supposed to meet him at midnight with the 60. It's already 1:00 AM. Be careful. I mean it.
LITE: I was supposed to meet him at midnight with the 60. It's already 1:00 AM. Be careful. I mean it.
JC: How are you doing, man?
LT: Very good. Very good. The Mets are gonna win tomorrow. I know. Here. Just a moment.
JC: I know. Here. Just a moment.
JC: This should be it. Oh, wait.
JC: There. Now you've got your profit and more. You'll have more product day after tomorrow, right?
LT: ( very spaced ) Uh - right. Sure. The Mets are gonna win tomorrow.
JC: I know. Take care of yourself, man, OK? Be
LT: Someone just took a shot at me.
ARIANE: Sure, baby Sure And you don't do cocaine, either.
LT: It's not the drugs, Ariane, it's it's someone who wants to kill me. You gotta believe me!
ARIANE: ( shrugs )
LT: Just kick back, baby. Make yourself at home. But of course it won't be nobody's home, if you don't come through with the fucking rent!
LT: Hello? Is LARGE there?
MOB VOICE: ( OC ) Look, man. Lite gave ne this number. OK? Just take a message. Tell Large to fucking call me right away at 123- 1234. Got it?
LT: Look, man. Lite gave ne this number. OK? Just take a message. Tell Large to fucking call me right away at 123- 1234. Got it?
MOB VOICE: ( CO phony humble ) Sure, I get it. ( laughs )
LT: I'm a good friend of Lite's, man. It's urgent that
LT: Christ! Shit! I could kill them all with my bare hands.
ARIANE: Those fucking Mob assholes. C'mere. You got some good blow, right?
LT: Those fucking Mob assholes. C'mere. You got some good blow, right?
ARIANE: C'mere. You got some good blow, right?
LT: Then c'mere. I got something for
ARIANE: Then c'mere. I got something for
ARIANE: First I'll put your Uptown in the spoon, then, to make it more exciting, I'm gonna add some Downtown. They call this thing a speedball, honey, but then you must know that. First time shooting up?
LT: Sure it is. You're a virgin. Just like that nun. And I'm gonna rape
ARIANE: Sure it is. You're a virgin. Just like that nun. And I'm gonna rape
LT: ( into the phone ) ( OC ) All right, cop. I want my money.
LARGE: ( OC ) All right, cop. I want my money.
LT: It's still my money. If you want to have a chance at any part of it, shithead, you will take my $120,000 and bet on tomorrow's game.
LARGE: ( OC ) What about the money you owe me on yesterday's game?
LT: Fuck yesterday's game. The World Series is seven games not six. Put in my bet.
LARGE: ( OC ) Let me think about it.
LT: There's nothing to think about. Either you put in my bet or you ain't getting
LARGE: ( CO lethal ) Oh, really?
LT: Yeah, really. I'm no fucking asshole, man. I'm a fucking cop!
LARGE: ( OC ) OK, cop. I want you to give yourself and your friends on the force a message. Tell them I've got my own reasons to be very interested in whomever did the job on the nuns. I'll double the Church reward if you bring those punks direct to me. 100 G cash. Get it?
LT: Fuck the nuns, man! I'm talking about Strawberry! Is the bet down?
LARGE: ( OC ) Here's the deal: You meet me tonight across from the Garden. 33rd & 8th. At the beginning of the Ninth Inning. We'll listen to the end of the game together. You bring your cash, I'll bring mine.
LT: Yeah, sucker. You better be there!
LT: Can you believe the nerve of this fucking guy? He kills people for fun, and then, he puts up 100 G to bring in some guys who raped a nun. What a sick fuck. Man.
ARIANE: A wiseguy. Paying 100 Grand for the rapists if I turn then over direct to him.
LT: A wiseguy. Paying 100 Grand for the rapists if I turn then over direct to him.
ARIANE: But you could do it, baby. We could use the bread.
LT: You mean you could use it.
LT: I got it, man! I will find those kids. And I'll get the 50 G from the Church! Then the kids'll go to jail. I'll be in charge, of course. After a little while, I'll break the fuckers out and I'll turn them in to shithead I was just talking to. And pick up his 100 G. No. I'll hit him up for 200 G. Or 250 G. l can do it 'cause I've got the kids. Then, of course, there's the 180 G I'm gonna pick up on the Game tonight when the Strawberries win!
ARIANE: "The Strawberries"?
LT: The Mets. So anyway, chalk up another 180 G for the Game. Jesus Christ! That's almost half a million dollars. Ariane! Wait. That's not good enough, I'll ask the shithead for 280 G for the kids. Then it'll be a perfect 500 thousand. Yeah. Perfect. 280 G for the kids. Yeah, it's good I prepared, or I wouldn't have thought
ARIANE: ( cuts in ) How come all those guys who're looking to get 50 from the Church haven't come up with shit? You got some kinda inside track?
LT: ( nods dead serious ) I'm a Catholic.
LT: Listen to me, Sister, listen to me good. The other cops'll just put the guys through the system. They're juveniles. They'll walk! Get it? But I'll beat the system and do justice. Real justice. For you.
NUN: I have already forgiven them.
LT: Come on lady! They put out cigarettes on your tits, man! Get with the program! Don't you want them behind bars? Or away from the world for good? How could you forgive these motherfu excuse me. These guys. How could you? Deep down, don't you want them to pay for what they did to you? Don't you want the crime I have forgiven them.
NUN: I have forgiven them.
LT: Nun! These boys still have their weapons, Sister. Your forgiveness will leave blood in its wake. What if they do it to other nuns? Other virgins? Old women who die from the shock? Do you have the rights let these boys go free? Can you bear the burden. Sister?
NUN: I have prayed for days, Lieutenant. I have prayed for the souls of the boys who raped me. And I have prayed for my own soul, too. I know what I must do. And I know what I must not But you you it is you who needs to pray. Now, why do you want to kill these boys? Why really?
LT: ( takes yet another tack ) Look. Sister. No one has to get killed. We can solve this together. You and me as one. These boys are lost sheep. Both Catholic did you know that? And they're sick, Sister. With a stress of the mind and of the soul. They need help. Not just jail. Not just psychiatry. They need the help that only the Church can give. Please help me to help them. Help me find them before the others do. The night is full of evil men, chasing these boys with guns and clubs. We have charity and love on our side. I know that together, we could find them first, even in the dark.
NUN: The good reasons are not always the real reasons. Talk to Jesus, Lieutenant. Pray. You do you believe in God don't you? That Jesus Christ died for your
JESUS: ( OC ) I forgive you.
LT: ( OC ) I forgive you.
JESUS: ( OC ) I forgive you.
LT: You can't forgive me. After what I've done. I've fucked up bigtime. I've been bad. Real bad.
JESUS: I forgive you.
LT: Please. Please don't forgive me. I've always hated you for that.
JESUS: I forgive you.
LT: Why? Why can't you hate me? Hate me! Please! Help me! Hate me! Help me! Hate me!
JESUS: I forgive you.
LT: Why? Jesus! Why me? Why can't I wash the ashes from my forehead, year after year after year? And why am I still drunk on your blood, the taste of your flesh on my tongue? Worst of all, why can't I feel the nails in my palms, the spear in my side, the crown of thorns round my head? Why do I have to know, over and over, that it was you. You who died; died for my sins! And that I will die for nothing. Why?
JESUS: I forgive you.
LT: Why do I dream every night of the whore who brought you water on your road to death? And why have I never forgotten that if she, then I
LT: Oh God, my God. it's goddamn good to be good. Forgive me. Father, for I have sinned. It's still goddamn good to be good.
JESUS: I forgive you.
CHALICE!: LT grabs the CHALICE. The ELDERLY BLACK WOMAN doesn't let At first, she doesn't speak at all. LT begins to CRY. Begs her to tell him. Then he wields his PISTOL, repeats his plea. Then breaks into TEARS. She speaks at last.
LT: The chalice. Tell me! Who gave it to you! Tell me where the fuck you got it! Take me there! Now!
LT: In the name of God, you must.
LT: We've already got Hell, Sister.
LT: No. Not a cop.
LT: A holy thing. Let's go.
FENCE: You took the chalice.
FENCE: You brought it back to the Church. And then it made it's way back to me, again.
FENCE: I was gonna bring it back myself.
FENCE: Jesus, woman! What did you think? You thought I'd get mad like I did that time you took that set of pots and pans? That was twenty years ago. And how do you compare pots and pans and a chalice?
LT: They both hold stuff you eat. So what are you doing here?
FENCE: ( to LT ) So what are you doing here?
FENCE: That's no mystery. Julio and Paolo brought it in, You don't want to hurt those boys, do you? I mean, they sure as Hell have got something coming, but it ain't what the Law wants to give them. You understand? No. How could you understand.
FENCE: Well maybe you do. But I don't know where those boys are at right now. You'll have to ask around. Those boys on the corner'll know. You'll have to get it out of them. But they
LT: ( spaced ) Thank you. And I'll make sure the chalice gets back where it belongs.
LT: Hey Have you seen Paolo or Julio
STREET DEALER: What the fuck you want.
LT: You know, my Uncle used to wear a walkman all the time. The walkman looked just like yours. And you look something like my Uncle. But one day he was standing in a puddle the puddle locked just like that one And what?
STREET DEALER: And what?
LT: And he got electrocuted.
LT: Look I don't know you, and you don't know me, but I'm really in the mood to kill someone today and you are at the end of my gun. Have you ever had days like that? Yeah, you have, so now you understand where I'm coming from. Tell me! Where is Julio and Paolo ?
STREET DEALER: They were at that abandoned building last night. Second floor. They're probably still there now. It's next to the old Convent. Downtown a ways. You know the place.
JULIO: Who the fu
LT: Shut up. Let's watch the game.
LT: After a moment, LT gets up. The KIDS understand that they must do the same.
PAOLO: After a moment, LT gets up. The KIDS understand that they must do the same.
LT: Give me the robes.
JULIO: You're not a cop are you?
LT: LT exits. Taking the KIDS along. He carries the CHALICE and the CIGAR BOX.
VOUS: VARIOUS ANGLES - LT drives toward the fatal rendez-vous with the BOOKIE. He is wearing the PURPLE ROBES from the CHURCH/CONVENT and has the CHALICE and the CIGAR BOX. LT has the KIDS handcuffed in the back seat. ( The Scene mirrors Scene 2. in which LT drove his own TWINS to school. ) The FINAL GAME ( SEVEN ) is on the RADIO. LT is listening, but also not listening. LT talks wildly about Jesus Christ. And about the misery they pass in the street. He waves his GUN wildly, punctuating his speech with potentially lethal gestures. He aims the GUN at JULIO and PAULO, then at himself, then out the window, then at the KIDS, again.
LT: Jesus died for your sins, you motherfuckers! Not me. No. I didn't die for your sins. No, not me. Jesus went and did it. So why did you do what you did? If you want to live, tell me now, motherfuckers! Tell me now!
LT: I forgive you.
LT: Get out.
LT: If you think you're not getting on this bus, you're dead wrong. No fucking way are you gonna miss this bus, man! You were probably the kind of kids who had your father drive you to school cause you couldn't catch the fucking bus. But no more, man. You're getting on this bus and you're taking it to the last fucking stop. So get on the fucking bus, man, 'cause you're life ain't worth shit in this town.
FIN: Writers : Abel Ferrara Zoe Lund
