FADE IN: INT. BEDROOM The time is 1959. HOLLY SARGIS, the 15-year-old heroine, sits on her bed, petting her dog. The CAMERA DOLLIES BACK as she talks on
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. ALLEYS AND STREETS - SERIES OF ANGLES - DAWN The streets and alleys of Ft. Dupree at dawn. On sound we hear the clucking of DOVES. A garbage truck appears. Details of the mechanisms at the back of the truck.
NEW ANGLE: KIT CARRUTHERS, the hero, a 25-year-old garbageman, kneels beside a dead dog. He inspects it briefly. then looks back at his friend and co-worker, CATO, a stocky man in his forties.
KIT: Cato inspects the dog.
CATO: collie, either. Some kind of dog. They drive off.
KIT: NEW ANGLE The truck comes to a stop. Kit bangs on the driver's door.
NEW ANGLE: The truck comes to a stop. Kit bangs on the driver's door.
KIT: WOODY waves him off. Kit shrugs to Cato.
KIT: talk much? Cato agrees with this. They make a terrible racket, with no regard for the sleep of the neighbors.
BUM: The Bum walks off. Kit pitches the shoes to Cato.
KIT: The Bum walks off. Kit pitches the shoes to Cato.
BUM: The Bum walks off. Kit pitches the shoes to Cato.
KIT: The Bum walks off. Kit pitches the shoes to Cato.
KIT: Cato picks them up and looks at them.
KIT: He slaps Cato on the back and walks off. Cato throws a mouldy loaf of bread at his back.
CATO: He throws the loaf back at Cato.
KIT: He throws the loaf back at Cato.
KIT: and say hello to you. ( smiling ) I'll try anything once. ( pause ) What's your name? I said mine.
HOLLY: and say hello to you. ( smiling ) I'll try anything once. ( pause ) What's your name? I said mine.
KIT: and say hello to you. ( smiling ) I'll try anything once. ( pause ) What's your name? I said mine.
HOLLY: Most people don't have anything on their minds, do they? Holly eyes him suspiciously.
KIT: Most people don't have anything on their minds, do they? Holly eyes him suspiciously.
HOLLY: Most people don't have anything on their minds, do they? Holly eyes him suspiciously.
KIT: Most people don't have anything on their minds, do they? Holly eyes him suspiciously.
KIT: much like “druthers,” doesn't it?
HOLLY: Holly breaks the silence that follows.
KIT: Holly breaks the silence that follows.
HOLLY: HOLLY ( o.c. ) Doing what?
KIT: HOLLY ( o.c. ) Doing what?
KIT: garbage. I'm not in love with the stuff, okay. In the distance we hear Holly's FATHER calling her. She eases Holly isn't sure how to reply.
HOLLY: Holly isn't sure how to reply.
KIT: Holly isn't sure how to reply.
HOLLY: KIT ( o.c. ) KIT ( o.c. ) He'll say that?
HOLLY: KIT ( o.c. ) He'll say that?
KIT: KIT ( o.c. ) He'll say that?
HOLLY: KIT ( o.c. ) He'll say that?
HOLLY: KIT ( o.c. ) Now what's he know about garbage, huh?
HOLLY: KIT ( o.c. ) There you go.
HOLLY: got to run. She waves goodbye and runs off. Kit waves back.
FATHER: He throws some paint off his brush onto the ground.
HOLLY: He throws some paint off his brush onto the ground.
HOLLY: He flicks his brush teasingly at her feet. She retreats to a chair, giggling.
HOLLY: and for him not to bother us.
FATHER: and for him not to bother us.
HOLLY: and for him not to bother us.
KIT: me out a slip, though, proving I came down here. The Clerk leafs through his papers.
CLERK: me out a slip, though, proving I came down here. The Clerk leafs through his papers.
KIT: me out a slip, though, proving I came down here. The Clerk leafs through his papers.
CLERK: me out a slip, though, proving I came down here. The Clerk leafs through his papers.
KIT: me out a slip, though, proving I came down here. The Clerk leafs through his papers.
CLERK: at the pens. Kit sighs.
KIT: The Clerk gives him a slip of paper.
KIT: KIT ( o.c. ) How do you say "Quit my Job" in Spanish?
HOLLY: KIT ( o.c. ) How do you say "Quit my Job" in Spanish?
KIT: KIT ( o.c. ) How do you say "Quit my Job" in Spanish?
HOLLY: KIT ( o.c. ) How do you say "Quit my Job" in Spanish?
KIT: KIT ( o.c. ) How do you say "Quit my Job" in Spanish?
HOLLY: KIT ( o.c. ) How do you say "Quit my Job" in Spanish?
HOLLY: Kit offers her a cigarette, which she declines.
KIT: about it. It's a routine, like anything. What do you think?
HOLLY: He pulls himself up onto the bannister beside her.
KIT: any more. She watches him intently. This makes him uncomfortable.
KIT: KIT ( o.c. ) Bring it along. His forwardness surprises her.
HOLLY: KIT ( o.c. ) Bring it along. His forwardness surprises her.
KIT: She appears nervous about being seen alone with him.
KIT: He greets a passing stranger.
KIT: He steers her toward his car, a customized Mercury. As she gets in, he asks her KIT ( o.c. ) Can I come around and see you tomorrow? HOLLY ( startled ) EXT. FEEDLOT - SERIES OF ANGLES We see Kit at work at the feedlot. throwing hay to the cattle, feeding them pills, etc. HOLLY ( v.o. ) Kit went to work in the feedlot while I carried on with my studies. Little by little we fell in love. As I'd never been popular in school and didn't have a lot of personality, I was surprised that he took such a liking to me, especially when he could've had any other girl in town if he'd given it half a try. The MONTAGE includes a shot of Holly running toward Kit's car for some rendezvous. HOLLY ( v.o. ) He said that I was grand, though, that he wasn't interested in me for sex and that coming from him this was a compliment. Held never met a fifteen-year-old girl who behaved more like a grownup and wasn't giggly. He didn't care what anybody else thought. I looked good to him, and whatever I did was okay, and if I didn't have a lot to say, well, that was okay, too.
HOLLY: He steers her toward his car, a customized Mercury. As she gets in, he asks her KIT ( o.c. ) Can I come around and see you tomorrow? HOLLY ( startled ) EXT. FEEDLOT - SERIES OF ANGLES We see Kit at work at the feedlot. throwing hay to the cattle, feeding them pills, etc. HOLLY ( v.o. ) Kit went to work in the feedlot while I carried on with my studies. Little by little we fell in love. As I'd never been popular in school and didn't have a lot of personality, I was surprised that he took such a liking to me, especially when he could've had any other girl in town if he'd given it half a try. The MONTAGE includes a shot of Holly running toward Kit's car for some rendezvous. HOLLY ( v.o. ) He said that I was grand, though, that he wasn't interested in me for sex and that coming from him this was a compliment. Held never met a fifteen-year-old girl who behaved more like a grownup and wasn't giggly. He didn't care what anybody else thought. I looked good to him, and whatever I did was okay, and if I didn't have a lot to say, well, that was okay, too.
KIT: He steers her toward his car, a customized Mercury. As she gets in, he asks her KIT ( o.c. ) Can I come around and see you tomorrow? HOLLY ( startled ) EXT. FEEDLOT - SERIES OF ANGLES We see Kit at work at the feedlot. throwing hay to the cattle, feeding them pills, etc. HOLLY ( v.o. ) Kit went to work in the feedlot while I carried on with my studies. Little by little we fell in love. As I'd never been popular in school and didn't have a lot of personality, I was surprised that he took such a liking to me, especially when he could've had any other girl in town if he'd given it half a try. The MONTAGE includes a shot of Holly running toward Kit's car for some rendezvous. HOLLY ( v.o. ) He said that I was grand, though, that he wasn't interested in me for sex and that coming from him this was a compliment. Held never met a fifteen-year-old girl who behaved more like a grownup and wasn't giggly. He didn't care what anybody else thought. I looked good to him, and whatever I did was okay, and if I didn't have a lot to say, well, that was okay, too.
HOLLY: He steers her toward his car, a customized Mercury. As she gets in, he asks her KIT ( o.c. ) Can I come around and see you tomorrow? HOLLY ( startled ) EXT. FEEDLOT - SERIES OF ANGLES We see Kit at work at the feedlot. throwing hay to the cattle, feeding them pills, etc. HOLLY ( v.o. ) Kit went to work in the feedlot while I carried on with my studies. Little by little we fell in love. As I'd never been popular in school and didn't have a lot of personality, I was surprised that he took such a liking to me, especially when he could've had any other girl in town if he'd given it half a try. The MONTAGE includes a shot of Holly running toward Kit's car for some rendezvous. HOLLY ( v.o. ) He said that I was grand, though, that he wasn't interested in me for sex and that coming from him this was a compliment. Held never met a fifteen-year-old girl who behaved more like a grownup and wasn't giggly. He didn't care what anybody else thought. I looked good to him, and whatever I did was okay, and if I didn't have a lot to say, well, that was okay, too.
KIT: He steers her toward his car, a customized Mercury. As she gets in, he asks her KIT ( o.c. ) Can I come around and see you tomorrow? HOLLY ( startled ) EXT. FEEDLOT - SERIES OF ANGLES We see Kit at work at the feedlot. throwing hay to the cattle, feeding them pills, etc. HOLLY ( v.o. ) Kit went to work in the feedlot while I carried on with my studies. Little by little we fell in love. As I'd never been popular in school and didn't have a lot of personality, I was surprised that he took such a liking to me, especially when he could've had any other girl in town if he'd given it half a try. The MONTAGE includes a shot of Holly running toward Kit's car for some rendezvous. HOLLY ( v.o. ) He said that I was grand, though, that he wasn't interested in me for sex and that coming from him this was a compliment. Held never met a fifteen-year-old girl who behaved more like a grownup and wasn't giggly. He didn't care what anybody else thought. I looked good to him, and whatever I did was okay, and if I didn't have a lot to say, well, that was okay, too.
HOLLY: He steers her toward his car, a customized Mercury. As she gets in, he asks her KIT ( o.c. ) Can I come around and see you tomorrow? HOLLY ( startled ) EXT. FEEDLOT - SERIES OF ANGLES We see Kit at work at the feedlot. throwing hay to the cattle, feeding them pills, etc. HOLLY ( v.o. ) Kit went to work in the feedlot while I carried on with my studies. Little by little we fell in love. As I'd never been popular in school and didn't have a lot of personality, I was surprised that he took such a liking to me, especially when he could've had any other girl in town if he'd given it half a try. The MONTAGE includes a shot of Holly running toward Kit's car for some rendezvous. HOLLY ( v.o. ) He said that I was grand, though, that he wasn't interested in me for sex and that coming from him this was a compliment. Held never met a fifteen-year-old girl who behaved more like a grownup and wasn't giggly. He didn't care what anybody else thought. I looked good to him, and whatever I did was okay, and if I didn't have a lot to say, well, that was okay, too.
KIT: He steers her toward his car, a customized Mercury. As she gets in, he asks her KIT ( o.c. ) Can I come around and see you tomorrow? HOLLY ( startled ) EXT. FEEDLOT - SERIES OF ANGLES We see Kit at work at the feedlot. throwing hay to the cattle, feeding them pills, etc. HOLLY ( v.o. ) Kit went to work in the feedlot while I carried on with my studies. Little by little we fell in love. As I'd never been popular in school and didn't have a lot of personality, I was surprised that he took such a liking to me, especially when he could've had any other girl in town if he'd given it half a try. The MONTAGE includes a shot of Holly running toward Kit's car for some rendezvous. HOLLY ( v.o. ) He said that I was grand, though, that he wasn't interested in me for sex and that coming from him this was a compliment. Held never met a fifteen-year-old girl who behaved more like a grownup and wasn't giggly. He didn't care what anybody else thought. I looked good to him, and whatever I did was okay, and if I didn't have a lot to say, well, that was okay, too.
HOLLY: KIT ( absorbed in game ) Yeah, the tree makes it nice.
HOLLY: SERIES OF ANGLES Holly's father paints a picture. using a stereopticon to help with his backgrounds. TRACK with Kit driving down a street in his Mercury. Holly sits watching football practice. HOLLY ( v.o. ) Of course I had to keep all this a secret from my dad. He would've had a fit, since Kit was ten years older than me and came from the wrong side of the tracks, so called. Our time with each other was limited and each lived for the precious hours when he or she could be with the other away from all the cares of the EXT. UNDERNEATH BLEACHERS Kit and Holly are necking underneath some bleachers. In the distance we hear the NOISE of the football practice.
KIT: SERIES OF ANGLES Holly's father paints a picture. using a stereopticon to help with his backgrounds. TRACK with Kit driving down a street in his Mercury. Holly sits watching football practice. HOLLY ( v.o. ) Of course I had to keep all this a secret from my dad. He would've had a fit, since Kit was ten years older than me and came from the wrong side of the tracks, so called. Our time with each other was limited and each lived for the precious hours when he or she could be with the other away from all the cares of the EXT. UNDERNEATH BLEACHERS Kit and Holly are necking underneath some bleachers. In the distance we hear the NOISE of the football practice.
HOLLY: Kit laughs, and starts her laughing, too.
KIT: Kit laughs, and starts her laughing, too.
HOLLY: Kit laughs, and starts her laughing, too.
KIT: At this her expression turns serious.
HOLLY: At this her expression turns serious.
KIT: At this her expression turns serious.
HOLLY: Her questions make him uncomfortable.
KIT: Her questions make him uncomfortable.
HOLLY: Her questions make him uncomfortable.
KIT: Her questions make him uncomfortable.
HOLLY: before it happened. Had a wreck, some deal like that. Kit points to an uprooted tree lying in the water a hundred feet He climbs back up the bank.
KIT: before it happened. Had a wreck, some deal like that. Kit points to an uprooted tree lying in the water a hundred feet He climbs back up the bank.
HOLLY: before it happened. Had a wreck, some deal like that. Kit points to an uprooted tree lying in the water a hundred feet He climbs back up the bank.
KIT: He climbs back up the bank.
HOLLY: about anything I say, though.
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. NEIGHBORING AREA Holly walks down the bank of the river. Kit falls in behind her, carrying a large stone. The CAMERA DOLLIES with them.
KIT: never forget what happened today.
HOLLY: never forget what happened today.
KIT: never forget what happened today.
HOLLY: She gives him a cold look.
KIT: She gives him a cold look.
HOLLY: He throws it awav and picks up a smaller one.
KIT: He throws it awav and picks up a smaller one.
KIT: He walks over to the car. A bridge is visible in the distance.
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. CATTAILS Holly's dog bounds through a stand of cattails. Holly speaks angrily to her father, who walks toward the dog with a gun. We do not hear their voices, only music. He shoots the dog and Holly runs off in horror. HOLLY ( v.o. ) Then, sure enough, Dad found out I'd been running around behind his back. He was madder than I'd ever seen him. As punishment for deceiving him, he went and shot my dog.
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. MUSIC SCHOOL Holly sits in the second-story window of a music school. HOLLY ( v.o. ) He made me take extra music lessons every day after school and wait there till he came to pick me up. He said that if the piano didn't keep me off the streets. maybe the clarinet would.
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. BILLBOARD Kit approaches Holly's father, who is hard at work, painting a billboard along a deserted stretch of road. Kit is eating a Kit sees that this kind of talk will not do. He is silent for a moment, then throws the peach away.
KIT: Kit sees that this kind of talk will not do. He is silent for a moment, then throws the peach away.
FATHER: Kit sees that this kind of talk will not do. He is silent for a moment, then throws the peach away.
KIT: Kit sees that this kind of talk will not do. He is silent for a moment, then throws the peach away.
KIT: Holly's father goes solemnly about his business.
KIT: with my girl. Matter of fact, I didn't really have one.
FATHER: Kit walks off a few paces and leans against the father's truck.
KIT: Kit walks off a few paces and leans against the father's truck.
KIT: Holly's father does not answer.
KIT: as good a one as I know to tell you.
FATHER: happen to her if she stuck around with you, Kit? Guy like you.
KIT: off, just take off, ( and ) I wouldn't mind. I'd always tell people I deserved it. Holly's father comes to his feet and fixes Kit in the eye.
FATHER: You understand? He lets these words sink in, then returns to his seat.
FATHER: Kit waves goodbye.
KIT: He walks to his car, looking back once.
KIT: Kit draws the pistol. He is shaken, though he must have seen this He looks at Holly, who has appeared on the landing, uncertain what her reaction to all this will be.
FATHER: Kit draws the pistol. He is shaken, though he must have seen this He looks at Holly, who has appeared on the landing, uncertain what her reaction to all this will be.
KIT: Kit draws the pistol. He is shaken, though he must have seen this He looks at Holly, who has appeared on the landing, uncertain what her reaction to all this will be.
FATHER: He looks at Holly, who has appeared on the landing, uncertain what her reaction to all this will be.
KIT: He looks at Holly, who has appeared on the landing, uncertain what her reaction to all this will be.
FATHER: Kit steps forward as Holly's father starts down the stairs.
KIT: FATHER ( o.c. ) Yeah? Why not?
FATHER: FATHER ( o.c. ) Yeah? Why not?
KIT: FATHER ( o.c. ) Yeah? Why not?
KIT: Holly's father stares at him for a moment, then continues down the stairs. Kit starts forward.
KIT: His shout arrests Holly's father at the bottom of the stairs.
KIT: Holly's father does not move.
KIT: He fires a shot into the stairs. The report is deafening in the enclosure of the stairwell. They exchange looks. Kit's breathing is heavy.
KIT: He fires two shots into Holly's father, who slowly sinks to the floor. Kit unlimbers his shoulder. Holly rushes down the stairs to her father's side.
HOLLY: Her father does not respond. She looks back at Kit, who avoids her gaze. She gets to her feet and walks nto the kitchen. Kit follows her.
KIT: KIT ( o.c. ) I can look and see.
HOLLY: KIT ( o.c. ) I can look and see.
HOLLY: part I saw. KIT ( sighs ) Well. I don't think that'd work. This startles Holly.
KIT: He walks back into the kitchen.
HOLLY: Holly stares at her father.
KIT: Holly stares at her father.
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. HOLLY'S HOUSE - DUSK LOW ANGLE of Holly's house silhouetted against the evening sky. On sound the NOISE of CICADAS.
KIT: He sets down the toaster and walks over to Holly's side.
KIT: She slaps him across the forehead. He walks into the now darkened living room, and sits down at the piano. After a moment Holly follows him.
HOLLY: A silence follows.
KIT: A silence follows.
HOLLY: A silence follows.
KIT: A silence follows.
HOLLY: He gets up and heads for the front door.
KIT: He gets up and heads for the front door.
KIT: hot for me. There are tears in Holly's eyes now. They exchange looks as Kit opens the front door. Then he leaves. Holly settles back on the EXT. HOLLY'S HOUSE - NIGHT The house by night.
KIT: did her dad. Big decision huh? Well, the reasons are obvious, and I don't have time to go into them right now. One thing, though. He was provoking me when I popped him. That's what it was like, a POP. Inserts of the booth's mechanism a light panel measuring off the seconds and the needle on the us. You can't deny we've had fun, though. Which is more than I can say for some.. Mmmm. that's the end of the message. I run out of things to say. Thank you. He gets these last words in just as his time is up. He gets the record and steps outside the booth, into the lobby of a train DISSOLVE TO INT. HOLLY'S LIVING ROOM - SERIES OF ANGLES - NIGHT Kit slams a ten-gallon can of gasoline down on the piano bench, opens it and begins pouring it out over the interior of the house, kicking aside everything that comes in his way.
KIT: us. You can't deny we've had fun, though. Which is more than I can say for some.. Mmmm. that's the end of the message. I run out of things to say. Thank you. He gets these last words in just as his time is up. He gets the record and steps outside the booth, into the lobby of a train DISSOLVE TO INT. HOLLY'S LIVING ROOM - SERIES OF ANGLES - NIGHT Kit slams a ten-gallon can of gasoline down on the piano bench, opens it and begins pouring it out over the interior of the house, kicking aside everything that comes in his way.
DISSOLVE TO: INT. HOLLY'S LIVING ROOM - SERIES OF ANGLES - NIGHT Kit slams a ten-gallon can of gasoline down on the piano bench, opens it and begins pouring it out over the interior of the house, kicking aside everything that comes in his way.
KIT: HOLLY ( neutrally ) I'm fine. Kind of tired.
KIT: The car sails down a quiet street.
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. RIVER The CAMERA DOLLIES with a tree floating down a swollen river. Cottonwood trees cover the far bank. HOLLY ( v.o. ) We hid out In the wilderness,down by a river in a grove of cottonwoods. It being the flood season we built our house in the trees, with tamarisk walls and willows laid side by side to make a floor. There wasn't a plant in the forest that didn't come in CLOSEUPS OF PLAIQTS - SERIES OF ANGLES Details of the cottonwoods, willow and tamarisk. Music continues EXT. TREEHOUSE - SERIES OF ANGLES Details of Kit and Holly building the treehouse. Kit pounds a log into place wi h a tomahawk; Holly scrapes the bark off a log with a piece of flint; Kit weaves tamarisk branches through the frame of the house. This MONTAGE ends with a PAN DOWN the four stories of the completed treehouse. HOLLY ( v.o. ) We planned a huge network of tunnels under the forest floor, and our first order of business every morning was to decide on a new password for the day. ow and then weld sneak out at night and steal a chicken or a bunch of corn or some melons from a melon patch. Mostly. though, we just lay on our backs and stared at the clouds and sometimes it was like being in a big marble hall. the way we talked in low voices and heard the tiniest sound.
KIT: Holly ignores him as he walks off down the flat. HOLLY ( v.o. ) Mostly. though. we got along fine and stayed in love.
HOLLY: She pats a little water on her face, dries it with a burlap towel, picks up a hatchet and walks off into the forest to cut the morning's firewood.
HOLLY: EXT. UPPER DECK Holly sits on the upper deck of the treehouse, reading Kon-Tiki aloud to Kit.
HOLLY: usually was in such conditions. We had become sensitive to changes in the rhythm of the logs. I thought at once of suction from the coast, which was drawing near, and was continually out on the deck and up the mast."
KIT: Holly looks at him for a moment, trying to understand the meaning of this interruption, then resumes
HOLLY: down from the masthead. He could see a whole line of small palm- clad islands far ahead."
DISSOLVE TO: SERIES OF ANGLES - TREEHOUSE Holly is off somewhere in the forest. putting on lipstick. Kit sits on watch in the crowls nest, a pair of binoculars close at hand. On sound, over the music, we hear voices whispering to them. Kit sees a movement in the brush. A moment later a figure appears, a hunter, carrying a gun. Kit shouts a code word to Holly. She takes off running, as Kit clambers down the planks of the treehouse and collects his shotgun. He tells her to hide, runs through the woods and dives in a hole, under a cover of leaves. She jumps behind a log. Several shots of the still forest follow, then the hunters appear, a shoulder here. pant leg there. The music ends as one of them cocks his gun. They pass right over the hole where Kit is hiding. Kit rises up slowly, gives them a gentlemanly word of warning, then shoots all three in the back. He checks to see if anybody else is with them, then calls weakly out to Holly.
KIT: Holly picks her way through the brush, back to the treehouse.
KIT: He takes a bird cage off the roof of the car and throws it away.
KIT: He climbs a ladder, looks In the cabin of the treehouse to see if they've left anything behind, then jumps down. He flips over the wicker hemisphere that covers their rooster. The rooster walks off, free. He surveys the woods, then looks back at Holly, who returns his look and gets in the car. HOLLY ( v.o. )Kit felt bad about shooting those men in the backs. but he said they'd come in like that. and they would've played it as down and dirty as they could, and besides, held overheard them whispering about how they were only interested in the reward money. With lawmen it wouldtve been different. They were out there to get a job done and they deserved a fair chance. But not a bounty hunter.
KIT: Kit steps forward, rifle in hand, and offers Cato the chicken.
CATO: Kit steps forward, rifle in hand, and offers Cato the chicken.
KIT: Cato takes it, a wan smile on his face.
KIT: Kit walks over to inspect the interior of Cato's house.
CATO: Kit walks over to inspect the interior of Cato's house.
KIT: Kit walks over to inspect the interior of Cato's house.
KIT: CATO ( o.c. ) They come with the house. He refers to a set of deer antlers, mounted over the door. Kit looks inside, then back at Cato.
KIT: Holly smiles and says hello.
HOLLY: around naked, with only a hat and gloves on, and this nurse came up to him and said, "Hey, what. You can't walk around that way," and the guy says, "What's the matter? Nobody comes around here." Anyway, the nurse says, "What do you have the hat and gloves on for, then?" And the guy says, "Well, you never know." Cato bursts into laughter.
KIT: Cato stops laughing. He wants to give Kit the right answer.
CATO: KIT ( o.c. ) She plays the clarinet, too. Holly smiles politely.
HOLLY: field over there, found some old Spanish coins.
CATO: field over there, found some old Spanish coins.
KIT: That's what he told you, huh? CATO ( o.c. ) No, he showed me one.
HOLLY: CATO ( o.c. ) Kind of round, like so. Gold. I'll show you if you want. Kit and Holly eye one another. Kit sees the chance to make a fortune here. He is careful to conceal his feelings, though.
KIT: Holly, big-eyed, bites into an apple.
KIT: of her people down there, but after that I don't know. They say Mexico's nice. Cato stops.
CATO: Kit walks out into the field to join Holly. Cato turns back.
KIT: Kit walks out into the field to join Holly. Cato turns back.
CATO: Kit walks out into the field to join Holly. Cato turns back.
KIT: Kit walks out into the field to join Holly. Cato turns back.
HOLLY: Holly tosses the lid at him. He picks up some dirt clods and starts throwing them at her. She squeals and dodges. CATO watches them for a while, indecisive, then turns and runs. HOLLY ( o.c. ) Hey, you're throwing big ones! Suddenly, Kit spots Cato.
KIT: Holly tosses the lid at him. He picks up some dirt clods and starts throwing them at her. She squeals and dodges. CATO watches them for a while, indecisive, then turns and runs. HOLLY ( o.c. ) Hey, you're throwing big ones! Suddenly, Kit spots Cato.
KIT: Cato jumps over a trough and comes to a stop in front of his truck, a water tanker.
CATO: Kit raises his gun and shoots Cato through the belly. CATO falls, then gets to his feet and stumbles toward the front door of the house. Kit follows him for a while, then skips forward and opens the door for him.
KIT: I got him in the stomach. Holly sits down.
HOLLY: I got him in the stomach. Holly sits down.
KIT: I got him in the stomach. Holly sits down.
HOLLY: He takes a drag off her cigarette and gives it back to her. He leafs idly through a catalogue on the table, then walks over to look in the bedroom.
KIT: He takes a drag off her cigarette and gives it back to her. He leafs idly through a catalogue on the table, then walks over to look in the bedroom.
KIT: Inside the bedroom Cato is still conscious, but his breathing is heavy. Kit walks back to Holly's side. HOLLY is looking through the catalogue.
KIT: Kit wants this to have been an execution, not a murder.
KIT: HOLLY ( defensive ) Just looking.
HOLLY: She sits down.
HOLLY: We hear the sound of a car HORN in the distance. HOLLY turns and looks.
CATO: We hear the sound of a car HORN in the distance. HOLLY turns and looks.
HOLLY: We hear the sound of a car HORN in the distance. HOLLY turns and looks.
CATO: We hear the sound of a car HORN in the distance. HOLLY turns and looks.
HOLLY: We hear the sound of a car HORN in the distance. HOLLY turns and looks.
CATO: We hear the sound of a car HORN in the distance. HOLLY turns and looks.
BOY: BOY ( o.c. ) Oh yeah?
KIT: BOY ( o.c. ) Oh yeah?
BOY: BOY ( o.c. ) Oh yeah?
KIT: BOY ( o.c. ) Oh yeah?
KIT: ones with the Studebaker, aren't you? The Boy hesitates a second, then starts for the house.
BOY: Kit draws his gun.
KIT: The Girl is baffled. KIT ( o.c. ) Come on out of there, young lady. Kit waves them out into the neighboring field with him.
BOY: The Girl is baffled. KIT ( o.c. ) Come on out of there, young lady. Kit waves them out into the neighboring field with him.
KIT: The Girl is baffled. KIT ( o.c. ) Come on out of there, young lady. Kit waves them out into the neighboring field with him.
KIT: The Boy raises his hands.
KIT: Holly steps out the front door and smiles at the girl.
BOY: Holly steps out the front door and smiles at the girl.
KIT: Holly steps out the front door and smiles at the girl.
HOLLY: EXT. FIELD Holly and the girl walk through the field toward a storm cellar where the boys are waiting for them. The wind is blowing hard.
GIRL: Holly thinks about this for a moment.
HOLLY: Holly thinks about this for a moment.
GIRL: Holly thinks about this for a moment.
HOLLY: Holly thinks about this for a moment.
GIRL: Holly thinks about this for a moment.
HOLLY: Holly thinks about this for a moment.
GIRL: Holly thinks about this for a moment.
HOLLY: EXT. STORM CELLAR Kit guides the couple into the storm cellar.
GIRL: EXT. STORM CELLAR Kit guides the couple into the storm cellar.
HOLLY: EXT. STORM CELLAR Kit guides the couple into the storm cellar.
KIT: They head down the steps into the cellar, the Girl first. Kit stops the Boy for a moment.
KIT: He looks back at Holly, as though to ask whether he should.
BOY: He looks back at Holly, as though to ask whether he should.
KIT: He looks back at Holly, as though to ask whether he should.
BOY: Kit nods and waves the Boy down into the cellar. The Boy disappears. Kit shuts the door.
KIT: Kit sticks a pin through the latch, hesitates, then fires two shots down through a seam into the cellar. He retreats to Holly's side. a little surprised at what he did.
KIT: He starts running away from the cellar. Holly follows him. A storm is gathering on the horizon. Kit offers Holly his hand as they run. but Holly does not see this.
HOLLY: He starts running away from the cellar. Holly follows him. A storm is gathering on the horizon. Kit offers Holly his hand as they run. but Holly does not see this.
KIT: He starts running away from the cellar. Holly follows him. A storm is gathering on the horizon. Kit offers Holly his hand as they run. but Holly does not see this.
HOLLY: Kit looks cornered and defensive. Holly thinks for a moment.
HOLLY: KIT ( shrugging ) Just to keep him out of the sun. Kit heads out of sight around the rear of the box car. Holly goes back inside. Kit walks up and down the length of the box car, talking under his breath and throwing his rifle from hand to hand, in a state.
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. COUNTRY ROAD Kit and Holly travel down a country road in the Studebaker. HOLLY ( v.o. ) At this moment I didn't feel shame or fear, but just kind of blah, like when you're sitting there and all the water's run out of the bathtub.
KIT: going to sit down and buy you a big, thick steak.
HOLLY: going to sit down and buy you a big, thick steak.
KIT: going to sit down and buy you a big, thick steak.
HOLLY: He nods at a wrecked car lying in a ditch beside the road.
KIT: He nods at a wrecked car lying in a ditch beside the road.
KIT: VIGILANTE MONTAGE - SERIES OF ANGLES - BLACK AND WHITE Various shots characterizing the Midwest's reaction to Kit and a deserted street, law officers posing with their guns and ammunition, children walking from class under armed guard, a detective in a trench coat pointing at a pump, a woman calling in her children at dusk, a county official posing with the county records, the court reporter with a book of signatures, vigilantes signing up and being deputized, then riding through the streets of their town in the backs of pickups, a priest among them, etc. HOLLY ( v.o. ) The whole country was out looking for us, for who knew where Kit would strike next? Sidewalks were deserted. Stores closed their doors and drew their blinds. Posses and vigilante committees were set up from Texas to North Dakota. Children rode back and forth to school under heavy guard. A famous detective was brought in from Boston. He could find no clues . My clarinet teacher said I probably wasn't responsible, but others said I was. Then, on Thursday, the Governor of Oklahoma sent out the National Guard to stand watch at the Federal Reserve Bank in Tulsa when word got out that Kit meant to rob it. It was like the Russians had EXT. RICH MAN'S HOUSE Kit and Holly approach a large Victorian mansion. Kit rings the HOLLY ( v.o. ) We needed supplies, so we went to a rich man's house. Kit figured it'd be safer and quicker than shopping in the downtown. A maid came to the door. A MAID opens the door.
KIT: He nods at the suitcase he is carrying. The Maid looks at Holly.
KIT: Kit winks at Holly. The Maid brushes her ears to indicate that she is deaf, then stands back to let them pass. HOLLY ( v.o. ) Later we found out she was deaf and we hadn't even known it.
KIT: They enter the house.
KIT: RICH MAN RICH MAN Kit looks around, overwhelmed by the luxury of the mansion.
RICH MAN: RICH MAN Kit looks around, overwhelmed by the luxury of the mansion.
KIT: RICH MAN Kit looks around, overwhelmed by the luxury of the mansion.
RICH MAN: Kit looks around, overwhelmed by the luxury of the mansion.
KIT: RICH MAN The Rich Man is wary. Kit nearly forgets to explain himself.
RICH MAN: The Rich Man is wary. Kit nearly forgets to explain himself.
KIT: here for a while. Couple of hours, maybe. How'd that be?
RICH MAN: TIGHT ON MURAL The CAMERA PANS across a mural of some pastoral scene.
KIT: Holly, in the next angle, has moved a bust off its pedestal onto the corner of a piano. She thinks better of this and restores the bust to its original position. Kit sniffs at a glass of sherry, then takes a picture off the mantel and studies it. Holly, at the other end of the room. tests the comforts of a chair. This done. she moves to another chair and tests it, too. She makes her hand limp. She watches it swing back and forth. Kit sits in the chair which the Rich Man occupied earlier. He has a thoughtful look on his face. There is a dictaphone on the table beside him.
KIT: things, so don't treat them like enemies. There's always a chance you could learn something. ( he pauses for a moment ) Try to keep an open mind. Try to understand the viewpoint of others. Consider the minority opinion, but try to get along with the majority opinion once it's accepted. ( again he pauses ) Course Holly and I've had fun, even if it has been rushed, and. so far we're doing fine. hadn't got caught. ( annoyed ) Excuse the grammar. He sets down the dictaphone. puts out his cigarette and leans back in his chair, lost in reflection.
HOLLY: he acts like there's something wrong with his bean. She leans against the window. behind the couch where the Rich Man is sitting.
HOLLY: RICH MAN She sits down beside the Rich Man. HOLLY ( shyly ) They claim I've got him wrapped around my little finger, but I never told him to shoot anybody. She looks the room over.
RICH MAN: She sits down beside the Rich Man. HOLLY ( shyly ) They claim I've got him wrapped around my little finger, but I never told him to shoot anybody. She looks the room over.
HOLLY: She sits down beside the Rich Man. HOLLY ( shyly ) They claim I've got him wrapped around my little finger, but I never told him to shoot anybody. She looks the room over.
HOLLY: RICH MAN We hear the NOISE of a doorbell.
RICH MAN: We hear the NOISE of a doorbell.
KIT: to start an epidemic.
VISITOR: to start an epidemic.
KIT: to start an epidemic.
VISITOR: to start an epidemic.
KIT: to start an epidemic.
VISITOR: if I could come by.
KIT: The Visitor is puzzled by Kit's presence in the house, and even more by his behavior. He takes out a note pad.
KIT: The Visitor jots something down and hands the note to Kit.
VISITOR: The Visitor jots something down and hands the note to Kit.
KIT: The Visitor jots something down and hands the note to Kit.
KIT: Kit closes the door.
KIT: He turns back down the stairs. On a rack at the bottom he finds a hat and coat. He takes them with him.
KIT: RICH MAN He points to the Maid with his pistol.
RICH MAN: He points to the Maid with his pistol.
KIT: He points to the Maid with his pistol.
RICH MAN: How'd that be?
KIT: How'd that be?
RICH MAN: He means Holly. KIT ( continuing ) Oh, and here's a list of everything we borrowed. Car's on there, He gives the list to the Rich Man and signals the Maid to accompany them out.
KIT: He means Holly. KIT ( continuing ) Oh, and here's a list of everything we borrowed. Car's on there, He gives the list to the Rich Man and signals the Maid to accompany them out.
KIT: INT. HALLWAY Kit points the Rich Man and his Maid into a closet.
KIT: RICH MAN He locks the door of the closet once they are inside, starts off, then remembers something, takes a handkerchief out of his pocket and wipes his fingerprints off the door handle.
RICH MAN: He locks the door of the closet once they are inside, starts off, then remembers something, takes a handkerchief out of his pocket and wipes his fingerprints off the door handle.
KIT: He locks the door of the closet once they are inside, starts off, then remembers something, takes a handkerchief out of his pocket and wipes his fingerprints off the door handle.
KIT: With this reminder he collects his bag of groceries and heads down the hall.
KIT: Holly starts off, KIT ( continuing ) Hey, why're you always walking ahead of me?
HOLLY: Kit grabs the seat of her pants.
HOLLY: They round a corner into the garden.
KIT: They round a corner into the garden.
HOLLY: They round a corner into the garden.
KIT: They round a corner into the garden.
HOLLY: They round a corner into the garden.
KIT: They round a corner into the garden.
KIT: the gas and electric. Bagworms. Plus the upkeep on the cars. Yeah, you get a little money in your pocket, you think all your problems are solved. Well, let me tell you, they're not. They arrive at the Cadillac. Holly sets down her suitcase and waits for Kit to open the door for her. Kit, who has forgotten this propriety, hurries back and opens the door. He throws the suitcase in the back, goes around the front of the car and gets in.
HOLLY: He adjusts his hat, starts the car and they drive off, past a Rolls Royce Kit has declined in favor of the Cadillac.
KIT: He adjusts his hat, starts the car and they drive off, past a Rolls Royce Kit has declined in favor of the Cadillac.
HOLLY: Pat Boone is seriously considering giving up his career so he can return to school full-time and complete his education. Fact Pat has told intimates that so long as things are going well for his career, it's the education that will have to take the back Frank Sinatra and Rita Hayworth are in love. Fact True, but not with each other." Kit chuckles at this, which pleases Holly.
KIT: Frank Sinatra and Rita Hayworth are in love. Fact True, but not with each other." Kit chuckles at this, which pleases Holly.
HOLLY: Frank Sinatra and Rita Hayworth are in love. Fact True, but not with each other." Kit chuckles at this, which pleases Holly.
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. MOUNTAIN Heat waves rise off the land. A mountain is barely discernible in the distance.
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. BADLANDS The Cadillac races through a herd of cows, HOLLY ( v.o. ) Kit'd sometimes ram a cow, to save on ammo, and we'd cook it.
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. BADLANDS The Cadillac roars through a stand of mesquite and disappears into the distance. HOLLY ( v.o. ) Little by little we approached the border. Kit was glad to leave South Dakota behind and cursed its name. He said that if the Communists ever dropped the atomic bomb, he wished they'd put it right in the middle of Rapid City.
HOLLY: hadn't. Never had any reason to. Holly sits down and looks at the map.
KIT: hadn't. Never had any reason to. Holly sits down and looks at the map.
HOLLY: EXT. PAN ACROSS BADLANDS The CAMERA PANS across the badlands. There Is not a tree or a bush in sight. It comes to rest on Kit, who carries his rifle over his shoulders the way James Dean did in "Giant".
HOLLY: there's no place to bathe and. no place to get anything good to He kisses her. She gives in reluctantly. After a while they They neck some more. then break again. Kit looks out one window, Holly out the other.
KIT: He kisses her. She gives in reluctantly. After a while they They neck some more. then break again. Kit looks out one window, Holly out the other.
KIT: They neck some more. then break again. Kit looks out one window, Holly out the other.
HOLLY: They neck some more. then break again. Kit looks out one window, Holly out the other.
KIT: HOLLY ( o.c. ) Yeah, then we'd be stuck here.
HOLLY: HOLLY ( o.c. ) Yeah, then we'd be stuck here.
KIT: HOLLY ( o.c. ) Yeah, then we'd be stuck here.
KIT: He stoops down and picks up a Pepsi bottle.
HOLLY: He climbs over the edge of the trestle, looks back at her oddly, then leaps down to the ground. Holly walks down to meet him. HOLLY ( v.o. ) Kit took the bottle and spun it around, leaving to fate which direction we should take.
KIT: find a more flat place.
HOLLY: Kit starts toward her, then changes his mind and heads back up the grade, to the tracks. The CAMERA DOLLIES and CRANES with him.
KIT: the right direction. And if I'm not, well, I don't care. See what I mean? HOLLY ( o.c. ) He stops at the top of the grade and looks out across the it wasn't such a hot idea.
KIT: He stops at the top of the grade and looks out across the it wasn't such a hot idea.
KIT: it wasn't such a hot idea.
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. TRESTLE - DUSK The Cadillac pulls out from under the trestle and heads down a dusty road alongside the tracks. HOLLY ( v.o. ) We took off at sunset, on a line toward the mountains of Saskatchewan, for Kit a magical land beyond the reach of the law. He needed me now more than ever, but something had come between us. I'd stopped even paying attention to him. Instead, I sat in the car and read a map and spelled out entire sentences with my tongue on the roof of my mouth, where nobody could read them.
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. MOUNTAIN - DUSK The Cadillac beads off across the plains toward a distant HOLLY ( v.o. ) That night we moved closer to the border, and clear across the prairie, at the very edge of the horizon.
KIT: Northwest Mounties . Hell, I got all the qualifications. I can ride, shoot and. I don't mind the cold. Fact. I kind of like the cold. Holly looks up from the map.
HOLLY: Holly lights a cigarette.
KIT: Holly lights a cigarette.
HOLLY: Holly lights a cigarette.
KIT: He reaches over and takes the cigarette out of her mouth. The CAMERA PANS to her with this gesture.
HOLLY: before they hired you. KIT ( o.c. ) Well. I'm not going to let that stop me. When the CAMERA PANS BACK to him, he is looking at her cigarette.
KIT: He is surprised to discover this.
HOLLY: He is surprised to discover this.
KIT: He cocks his head just thinking about it. She reaches for the radio to change the station. He pats her hand away.
KIT: EXT. BADLANDS - NIGHT They dance in the headlights to the tune of "A Blossom Fell" coming over the car radio. She is wearing the rich man's jacket. After a moment Kit whispers in her ear.
KIT: a song about the way I feel right now, it'd be a hit. They continue dancing.
KIT: Texas girl like yourself think of a sight like that? She turns to look at the mountains.
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. OIL RIG The Cadillac drives up to an oil rig. Kit gets out of the car.
KIT: The ROUGHNECK in charge of the rig steps out of his trailer. It seems there is nobody else around.
KIT: Holly walks over to inspect the rig. KIT ( o.c. ) See, we're about out. been driving all night. Actually, I don't even have time to explain it to you. ROUGHNECK ( o.c. ) Well, matter of fact, I don't have any.
ROUGHNECK: Holly walks over to inspect the rig. KIT ( o.c. ) See, we're about out. been driving all night. Actually, I don't even have time to explain it to you. ROUGHNECK ( o.c. ) Well, matter of fact, I don't have any.
KIT: Holly walks over to inspect the rig. KIT ( o.c. ) See, we're about out. been driving all night. Actually, I don't even have time to explain it to you. ROUGHNECK ( o.c. ) Well, matter of fact, I don't have any.
KIT: He points to a truck linked to the front of the trailer. Holly looks idly around. Suddenly her expression changes, for what reason it is not clear. KIT ( o.c. ) You didn't walk out here. ROUGHNECK ( o.c. ) It's mine all right.
KIT: The Roughneck does not understand what Kit is up to.
KIT: blue book value on this thing, Mildred? He slaps the hood of the Cadillac and looks to Holly. She is still preoccupied with whatever it is she has seen, though. ROUGHNECK ( o.c. ) Who are you?
KIT: Not that I deserve a medal. Holly signals Kit with a nod at the horizon.
HOLLY: Kit looks up and sees a helicopter in the distance. He hesitates a moment, then draws his gun.
KIT: ROUGHNECK ( o.c. ) Just gimme a chance.
KIT: Holly moves around the side of the rig and sits against a tire. Kit joins her.
KIT: make a run for the car. He starts off in the direction of the car, but Holly calls him Kit looks at her. surprised.
HOLLY: make a run for the car. He starts off in the direction of the car, but Holly calls him Kit looks at her. surprised.
KIT: make a run for the car. He starts off in the direction of the car, but Holly calls him Kit looks at her. surprised.
HOLLY: Kit looks at her. surprised.
KIT: She shrugs. He stares at her for a moment, then bows his head and walks off a distance.
HOLLY: She shrugs. He stares at her for a moment, then bows his head and walks off a distance.
KIT: She shrugs. He stares at her for a moment, then bows his head and walks off a distance.
KIT: He kicks wildly at dust.
KIT: Meanwhile, the helicopter continues its approach. Kit walks in closer to Holly.
KIT: He kicks at the rigs then turns back to face her.
KIT: Coulee Dam, New Year'ss Day. 1964. You meet me there. Now you got that? She nods, bewildered. The helicopter is landing. He grabs a discarded fender off the truck, hangs it over his arm like a shield and runs to the Cadillac, exchanging shots with a State Trooper who has arrived in the helicopter. The Trooper is hit and falls. Kit jumps in the car and roars off. Holly surrenders herself to the pilot of the helicopter and is taken off.
KIT: An ATTENDANT walks out the door.
KIT: fill her up for me? Please? The Attendant nods. Kit pulls Holly's suitcase out of the back seat and walks over to a trash can at the edge of the apron. Kit throws Holly's things methodically into the trash can. After a while he comes upon a book. He opens the book and looks through it, then turns to find the Attendant staring at him. As he gets to his feet. he nods at the trash can.
ATTENDANT: fill her up for me? Please? The Attendant nods. Kit pulls Holly's suitcase out of the back seat and walks over to a trash can at the edge of the apron. Kit throws Holly's things methodically into the trash can. After a while he comes upon a book. He opens the book and looks through it, then turns to find the Attendant staring at him. As he gets to his feet. he nods at the trash can.
KIT: fill her up for me? Please? The Attendant nods. Kit pulls Holly's suitcase out of the back seat and walks over to a trash can at the edge of the apron. Kit throws Holly's things methodically into the trash can. After a while he comes upon a book. He opens the book and looks through it, then turns to find the Attendant staring at him. As he gets to his feet. he nods at the trash can.
KIT: Meanwhile, a police car approaches the station. Kit sees it at about the same time the police see him. He throws his book in the car and roars out of the station. The police car goes into a bootlegger's turn and takes off after him.
KIT: the mountains. DEPUTY ( o.c. ) Oh yeah? KIT ( nodding ) Long as my ammo held out. Right there's where you caught me. He nods at the stack of rocks. The Sheriff frisks him as the Deputy covers.
SHERIFF: the mountains. DEPUTY ( o.c. ) Oh yeah? KIT ( nodding ) Long as my ammo held out. Right there's where you caught me. He nods at the stack of rocks. The Sheriff frisks him as the Deputy covers.
KIT: the mountains. DEPUTY ( o.c. ) Oh yeah? KIT ( nodding ) Long as my ammo held out. Right there's where you caught me. He nods at the stack of rocks. The Sheriff frisks him as the Deputy covers.
DEPUTY: The Sheriff takes out a pair of handcuffs.
KIT: The Sheriff takes out a pair of handcuffs.
SHERIFF: The Sheriff claps the handcuffs on one of Kit's wrists.
SHERIFF: Kit does as the Sheriff asks. The Deputy holsters his pistol and walks forward to inspect their prize. He and KIT exchange DEPUTY ( to Sheriff ) Hell, he ain't no bigger than I am. The Sheriff sticks his pistol in Kit's ear and leads him off toward the police car.
KIT: The Sheriff gives Kit a shove.
DEPUTY: The Deputy draws his pistol and fires a shot into the neighboring field. Kit is startled. The Deputy makes the same motion, this time without firing.
DEPUTY: EXT. HIGHWAY The police car sails down an open stretch of highway.
KIT: The Deputy, fascinated, watches all this from the back seat. Kit turns to him.
SHERIFF: The Deputy, fascinated, watches all this from the back seat. Kit turns to him.
KIT: KIT ( o.c. ) You ever had to open it up like that before?
DEPUTY: KIT ( o.c. ) You ever had to open it up like that before?
DEPUTY: Kit turns back around. KIT ( reassuringly ) Well, you boys have performed like a couple of heroes. And don't think I'm not going to pass it around when we get to town. The Sheriff lifts the hat off Kit's head and tosses it out the window. It rolls to a stop on the highway behind them.
KIT: SHERIFF ( o.c. ) Wanta sue me?
KIT: this big a one. Takes all kinds though. Kit gets a smile from the Deputy. The Deputy turns to the Kit is anxious to hear the answer. SHERIFF ( o.c. ) Kit drops his eyes and turns away, deeply gratified by this remark. The Sheriff smiles at the Deputy in the rear mirror. The car roars past a freight train.
DEPUTY: this big a one. Takes all kinds though. Kit gets a smile from the Deputy. The Deputy turns to the Kit is anxious to hear the answer. SHERIFF ( o.c. ) Kit drops his eyes and turns away, deeply gratified by this remark. The Sheriff smiles at the Deputy in the rear mirror. The car roars past a freight train.
KIT: this big a one. Takes all kinds though. Kit gets a smile from the Deputy. The Deputy turns to the Kit is anxious to hear the answer. SHERIFF ( o.c. ) Kit drops his eyes and turns away, deeply gratified by this remark. The Sheriff smiles at the Deputy in the rear mirror. The car roars past a freight train.
DEPUTY: this big a one. Takes all kinds though. Kit gets a smile from the Deputy. The Deputy turns to the Kit is anxious to hear the answer. SHERIFF ( o.c. ) Kit drops his eyes and turns away, deeply gratified by this remark. The Sheriff smiles at the Deputy in the rear mirror. The car roars past a freight train.
KIT: this big a one. Takes all kinds though. Kit gets a smile from the Deputy. The Deputy turns to the Kit is anxious to hear the answer. SHERIFF ( o.c. ) Kit drops his eyes and turns away, deeply gratified by this remark. The Sheriff smiles at the Deputy in the rear mirror. The car roars past a freight train.
DEPUTY: this big a one. Takes all kinds though. Kit gets a smile from the Deputy. The Deputy turns to the Kit is anxious to hear the answer. SHERIFF ( o.c. ) Kit drops his eyes and turns away, deeply gratified by this remark. The Sheriff smiles at the Deputy in the rear mirror. The car roars past a freight train.
KIT: this big a one. Takes all kinds though. Kit gets a smile from the Deputy. The Deputy turns to the Kit is anxious to hear the answer. SHERIFF ( o.c. ) Kit drops his eyes and turns away, deeply gratified by this remark. The Sheriff smiles at the Deputy in the rear mirror. The car roars past a freight train.
DEPUTY: Kit is anxious to hear the answer. SHERIFF ( o.c. ) Kit drops his eyes and turns away, deeply gratified by this remark. The Sheriff smiles at the Deputy in the rear mirror. The car roars past a freight train.
DEPUTY: Kit drops his eyes and turns away, deeply gratified by this remark. The Sheriff smiles at the Deputy in the rear mirror. The car roars past a freight train.
MECHANIC: KIT ( o.c. ) Fine as can be expected. Just locked up, can't move. MECHANIC ( o.c. ) That's a nice little coat you got on there.
KIT: He takes out his cigarette lighter.
KIT: Who's going to get it? VOICE ( o.c. ) Gimme that sombitch.
KIT: SECOND VOICE ( o.c. ) Where you from?
KIT: SECOND VOICE ( o.c. ) He takes a comb out of his pocket and pitches it down to somebody. He ignores most of the questions coming at him. THIRD VOICE ( o.c. ) Joni James is from South Dakota.
KIT: He takes a comb out of his pocket and pitches it down to somebody. He ignores most of the questions coming at him. THIRD VOICE ( o.c. ) Joni James is from South Dakota.
KIT: FOURTH VOICE ( o.c. ) You ever been to Kansas? FIFTH VOICE ( o.c. ) Hey, Kit. whot's your favorite singer?
KIT: FIFTH VOICE ( o.c. ) Eddie Fisher.
KIT: He pitches the man a ballpoint. The CAMERA MOVES BACK to a WIDE SHOT of the whole scene. SIXTH VOICE ( o.c. ) How old are you?
KIT: SIXTH VOICE ( .o.c. ) You ever been married?
KIT: EXT. HANGAR - SERIES OF ANGLES Various SHOTS of the National Guardsmen dozing on the pavement. playing cards beside the hangar, a little bored. Also a shot of Holly with the Sheriff and Deputy. SEVENTH VOICE ( o.c. ) Hey, Kit, you afraid of death? KIT ( o.c. ) I hadn't thought about it much.
KIT: here but these cuffs are pinching. What do you say now?
DEPUTY: while I do?
KIT: while I do?
DEPUTY: He gives Kit the papers and leads him out of the hangar. Kit turns back to the crowd inside.
KIT: EXT. POLICE CAR Holly leans against the fender of the police car. She wears handcuffs. Kit turns to a State Trooper who holds him by a The Trooper pays out the slack. Kit leans against the car. He and Holly exchange looks.
GUARDSMAN: EXT. POLICE CAR Holly leans against the fender of the police car. She wears handcuffs. Kit turns to a State Trooper who holds him by a The Trooper pays out the slack. Kit leans against the car. He and Holly exchange looks.
DEPUTY: EXT. POLICE CAR Holly leans against the fender of the police car. She wears handcuffs. Kit turns to a State Trooper who holds him by a The Trooper pays out the slack. Kit leans against the car. He and Holly exchange looks.
KIT: EXT. POLICE CAR Holly leans against the fender of the police car. She wears handcuffs. Kit turns to a State Trooper who holds him by a The Trooper pays out the slack. Kit leans against the car. He and Holly exchange looks.
KIT: The Trooper pays out the slack. Kit leans against the car. He and Holly exchange looks.
KIT: There's a whole lot of other boys out there. You're going to have a lot of fun. Holly looks down.
KIT: Holly does not reply.
KIT: just lucky he's not dead, too. Holly does not appreciate the humor of this. Kit, chastened, turns serious.
KIT: He looks up at the SOUND of an incoming plane.
HOLLY: He looks up at the SOUND of an incoming plane.
KIT: He looks up at the SOUND of an incoming plane.
KIT: He turns to shake hands with the Deputy. The planets engines whir to life.
CHIEF: He turns to shake hands with the Deputy. The planets engines whir to life.
KIT: He turns to shake hands with the Deputy. The planets engines whir to life.
DEPUTY: The Trooper pulls him toward the plane. Kit calls Holly.
KIT: The Trooper pulls him toward the plane. Kit calls Holly.
DEPUTY: The Trooper pulls him toward the plane. Kit calls Holly.
KIT: The Trooper pulls him toward the plane. Kit calls Holly.
DEPUTY: The Trooper pulls him toward the plane. Kit calls Holly.
KIT: The Trooper pulls him toward the plane. Kit calls Holly.
TROOPER: The Trooper pulls him toward the plane. Kit calls Holly.
KIT: EXT. RUNWAY - SERIES OF ANGLES The props start turning. The crowd waves goodbye as the boarding door is closed. The wheels turn toward the sun. The Guardsmen race back to their trucks. A mailman carries off the mail bags he collected from the plane. The plane taxies down the runway and lifts into the air. HOLLY ( v.o. ) Kit and I were taken back to South Dakota. They kept him in solitary, so he didn't have a chance to get acquainted with the other inmates, though he was sure they'd like him, especially the murderers. Myself, I got off with probation and a lot of nasty looks. Later I married the son of the lawyer who defended me. ( pause ) Kit went to sleep in the courtroom while his confession was being read, and he was sentenced to die in the electric chair. On a warm spring night, six months later, after donating his body to science, he did. With Holly's last words we CUT INSIDE the cabin of the plane.
KIT: The Trooper smiles. Holly looks up.
TROOPER: The Trooper smiles. Holly looks up.
KIT: The Trooper smiles. Holly looks up.
TROOPER: The Trooper smiles and looks out the window. Kit looks to Holly, to see if she has taken this remark in the proper spirit. She smiles and looks out the window.
KIT: The Trooper smiles and looks out the window. Kit looks to Holly, to see if she has taken this remark in the proper spirit. She smiles and looks out the window.
THE END: Writers : Terence Malick
