BARRY LYNDON: Stanley Kubrick Based on the novel by William Makepeace Thackeray
A: Stanley Kubrick Based on the novel by William Makepeace Thackeray
RODERICK: I accept, but I insist on a wager. The loser must do whatever the winner pleases.
DOROTHY: Do you see the gate at the end of the field? The first to touch it will be the winner. They line up together and start on a count of three. Dorothy uses all her strength, but Roderick holds back, and Dorothy touches the gate five or six paces ahead of I was certain to win, but I meant to lose to see what she would order me to do. Dorothy catches her breath, thinking of the penalty. Then she goes behind the trees and, a few second later, comes out and says:
RODERICK: Do you see the gate at the end of the field? The first to touch it will be the winner. They line up together and start on a count of three. Dorothy uses all her strength, but Roderick holds back, and Dorothy touches the gate five or six paces ahead of I was certain to win, but I meant to lose to see what she would order me to do. Dorothy catches her breath, thinking of the penalty. Then she goes behind the trees and, a few second later, comes out and says:
DOROTHY: Your penalty is to find a cherry- colored ribbon which I have hidden somewhere on my person. You are free to look for it anywhere you will, and I will think very little of you if you do not find it. They sit down on the grass. Roderick searches her pockets, the fold of her short bodice and her skirt, then her shoes; then he turns up her skirt, slowly and circumspectly, as high as her garters, which she wears upon the knee. He unfastens them and finds nothing; he draws down her skirt and gropes under her armpits. The tickling makes her laugh.
RODERICK: I feel the ribbon.
DOROTHY: Then you must get it. Roderick has to unlace her bodice and touch her pretty breasts, over which his hand must pass to reach it.
DOROTHY: Why are you shaking?
RODERICK: With pleasure at finding the ribbon.
DOROTHY: Sure it's a bitter night, Roderick dear, and you'll catch cold without a handkerchief to your neck. To this sympathetic remark, from the pillion, the saddle made no reply.
DOROTHY: Did you and Miss Clancy have a pleasant evening, Roderick? You were together, I saw, all night. To this, the saddle only replies by grinding his teeth, and giving a lash to Daisy.
DOROTHY: Oh! Mercy, you make Daisy rear and throw me, you careless creature, The pillion had by this got her arm around the saddle's waist, and gave it the gentlest squeeze in the world.
RODERICK: I hate Miss Clancy, you know I do! And I only danced with her because because the person with whom I intended to dance chose to be engaged the whole night.
DOROTHY: I had not been in the room five minutes before I was engaged for every single set.
RODERICK: Were you obliged to dance five times with Captain Best, and then stroll out with him into the garden?
DOROTHY: I don't care a fig for Captain Best; he dances prettily to be sure, and is a pleasant rattle of a man. He looks well in his regimentals, too; and if he chose to ask me to dance, how could I refuse him?
RODERICK: But you refused me, Dorothy.
DOROTHY: Oh! I can dance with you any day, and to dance with your own cousin at a ball as if you could find no other partner. Besides, Roderick, Captain Best's a man, and you are only a boy, and you haven't a guinea in the If ever I meet him again, you shall see which is the best man of the two. I'll fight him with sword or with pistol, captain as he is.
RODERICK: If ever I meet him again, you shall see which is the best man of the two. I'll fight him with sword or with pistol, captain as he is.
DOROTHY: But Captain Best is already known as a valiant soldier, and is famous as a man of fashion in London. It is mighty well of you to fight farmers' boys, but to fight an Englishman is a very different matter. Roderick falls silent.
DOROTHY: Suppose, now, Roderick, you, who are such a hero, was passing over the bridge and the enemy on the other I'd draw my sword, and cut my way through them.
RODERICK: I'd draw my sword, and cut my way through them.
DOROTHY: What, with me on the pillion? Would you kill poor me?
RODERICK: Well, then, I'll tell you what I'd do. I'd jump Daisy into the river, and swim you both across, where no enemy could follow us.
DOROTHY: Jump twenty feet! You wouldn't dare to do any such thing on Daisy. There's the captain's horse, Black George, I've heard say that Captain She never finished the word for, maddened by the continual recurrence of that odious monosyllable, Roderick shouts:
RODERICK: Hold tight to my waist! And, giving Daisy the spur, springs with Dorothy over the parapet, into the deeper water below. The horse's head sinks under, the girl screams as she sinks, and screams as she rises. Roderick lands her, half-fainting, on the shore.
RODERICK: Whose horse, fellow, is that?
ORDERLY: Feller, indeed! The horse belongs to my captain, and he's a better fellow nor you any day.
CAPTAIN BEST: No, Dorothy, except for you and four others, I vow before all the gods, my heart had never felt the soft Ah, you men, you men, John, your passion is not equal to ours. We are like like some plant I've read of we bear but one flower, and then we die!
DOROTHY: Ah, you men, you men, John, your passion is not equal to ours. We are like like some plant I've read of we bear but one flower, and then we die!
CAPTAIN BEST: Do you mean you never felt an inclination for another?
DOROTHY: Never, my John, but for thee! How can you ask me such a question? Raising her hand to his lips.
CAPTAIN BEST: Darling Dorothea! Roderick rushes into view, drawing his little sword.
RODERICK: She's a liar she's a liar, Captain Best! Draw, sir, and defend yourself, if you are a man! Roderick leaps at Captain Best, and collars him, while Dorothy makes the air echo with her screams. Captain Grogan and Mysie hasten up. Though Roderick is a full growth of six feet, he is small by the side of the enormous English captain. Best turns very red at the attack upon him, and slips back clutching at his sword. Dorothy, in an agony of terror, flings herself round him, Captain Best, for Heaven's sake, spare the child he is but an And ought to be whipped for his impudence, but never fear, Miss Dugan, I shall not touch him, your favorite is safe from me. So saying, he stoops down and picks up the bunch of ribbons, which Roderick had flung at Dorothy's feet, and handing it to her, says in a sarcastic tone:
DOROTHY: Captain Best, for Heaven's sake, spare the child he is but an And ought to be whipped for his impudence, but never fear, Miss Dugan, I shall not touch him, your favorite is safe from me. So saying, he stoops down and picks up the bunch of ribbons, which Roderick had flung at Dorothy's feet, and handing it to her, says in a sarcastic tone:
CAPTAIN BEST: And ought to be whipped for his impudence, but never fear, Miss Dugan, I shall not touch him, your favorite is safe from me. So saying, he stoops down and picks up the bunch of ribbons, which Roderick had flung at Dorothy's feet, and handing it to her, says in a sarcastic tone:
CAPTAIN BEST: When ladies make presents to gentlemen, it is time for other gentlemen to retire.
DOROTHY: Good heavens, Best! He is but a boy and don't signify any more than my parrot or lap-dog. Mayn't I give a bit of ribbon to my own cousin?
RODERICK: ( roaring ) I'm a man, and will prove it.
CAPTAIN BEST: You are perfectly welcome, miss, as many yards as you like.
DOROTHY: Monster! Your father was a tailor, and you are always thinking of the shop. But I'll have my revenge, I will! Roddy, will you see me Indeed, Miss Dorothy, I intend to have his blood as sure as my name's I'll send for the usher to cane you, little boy, but as for you, miss, I have the honor to wish you a good Best takes off his hat with much ceremony, and makes a low bow, and is just walking off, when Michael, Roderick's cousin, comes up, whose ear has likewise been caught by the scream.
RODERICK: Indeed, Miss Dorothy, I intend to have his blood as sure as my name's I'll send for the usher to cane you, little boy, but as for you, miss, I have the honor to wish you a good Best takes off his hat with much ceremony, and makes a low bow, and is just walking off, when Michael, Roderick's cousin, comes up, whose ear has likewise been caught by the scream.
CAPTAIN BEST: I'll send for the usher to cane you, little boy, but as for you, miss, I have the honor to wish you a good Best takes off his hat with much ceremony, and makes a low bow, and is just walking off, when Michael, Roderick's cousin, comes up, whose ear has likewise been caught by the scream.
MICHAEL: Hoity-toity! John Best, what's the matter here?
CAPTAIN BEST: I'll tell you what it is, Mr. Dugan. I have had enough of Miss Dugan here and your Irish ways. I ain't used to 'em, sir.
MICHAEL: ( good-humoredly ) Well, well! What is it? We'll make you used to our ways, or adopt English ones.
CAPTAIN BEST: It's not the English way, for ladies to have two lovers, and, so, Mr. Dugan, I'll thank you to pay me the sum you owe me, and I resign all claims to this young lady. If she has a fancy for school-boys, let her take 'em, sir.
MICHAEL: Pooh! Pooh! Best, you are joking.
CAPTAIN BEST: I never was more in earnest. Best exits.
MICHAEL: ( in a towering rage ) You you! Hang you for a meddling brat, your hand is in everybody's pie. What business had you to come brawling and quarreling here, with a gentleman who has fifteen hundred Michael runs after Best.
DOROTHY: ( gasps ) Oh, I shall die; I know I shall. I shall never leave this spot.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: ( whisper to Dorothy ) The Captain is gone. Dorothy, giving him an indignant look, jumps up and walks towards the house.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: ( in a soothing tone This is a pretty way to recommend yourself to the family.
RODERICK: ( shouts after The man that marries Dorothy Dugan must first kill me do you mind ( shouting back from Pooh, sir. Kill you flog you, you mean! I'll send for Nick the huntsman to do it.
MICHAEL: ( shouting back from Pooh, sir. Kill you flog you, you mean! I'll send for Nick the huntsman to do it.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: You are a gallant lad, and I like your spirit. But what Dugan says is true. It's a hard thing to give a lad counsel who is in such a far- gone state as you; but, believe me, I know the world, and if you will but follow my advice, you won't regret having taken it. Dorothy Dugan has not a penny; you are not a whit richer. And, my poor boy, don't you see though it's a hard matter to see that she's a flirt, and does not care a pin for you or Best either?
RODERICK: Dorothy might love me or not, as she likes, but Best will have to fight me before he marries her!
CAPTAIN GROGAN: Faith, I think you are a lad that's likely to keep your word. He looks hard at Roderick for a second to two, then he walks away, humming a tune, looking back at Roderick as he goes through the old gate out of the garden. When Grogan is gone, Roderick is quite alone, and he flings himself down on the bench where Dorothy had made believe to faint, and had left her handkerchief and the ribbons and, taking them up, hides his face in them, and bursts into a passion of tears.
MAID: The Englishman's still there, Master Roderick. He's there in the parlor. Go in, and don't let 'im browbeat you, Master Roderick.
UNCLE: Hello, Roddy, my boy! Up and well? That's right.
AUNT: He'd better be home with his mother.
UNCLE: Don't mind her. It's the cold goose she ate for breakfast didn't agree with her. Take a glass of spirits, Mrs. Dugan, to Roderick's It is evident that his uncle doesn't know of what happened, but Michael, who is at dinner too, and Harry, and almost all the girls, look exceedingly black and the captain foolish; and Miss Dorothy, who is again by his side, ready to cry. Captain Grogan sits smiling, and Roderick looks on as cold as stone. His uncle is in high good-humor.
UNCLE: Dorothy, divide that merry thought with the captain! See who'll be married first. Jack Best, my dear boy, never mind a clean glass for the claret, we're short of crystal at Castle Dugan; take Dorothy's and the wine will taste none the worse. Mrs. Dugan and ladies, if you please; this is a sort of toast that is drunk a great deal too seldom in my family, and you'll please to receive it with all the honors. Here's to Captain and Mrs. John Best, and long life to them. Kiss her, Jack, you rogue; for faith, you've got a treasure.
RODERICK: ( spring up ) His already?!
HARRY: Hold your tongue, you fool hold your tongue!
RODERICK: ( shouting ) He has already been slapped in the face this morning, Captain John Best; he's already been called a coward, Captain John Best; and this is the way I'll drink his health. Here's your health, Captain John Roderick flings a glass of claret into his face. The next moment, he is under the table, tripped up by Harry, who hits him a violent cuff on the head; as he goes down, he hardly has time to hear the general screaming and scurrying that is taking place above him, being so fully occupied with kicks, and thumps and curses, with which Harry is belaboring him.
HARRY: You fool! You great blundering marplot you silly beggarly Hold your tongue! When Roderick gets up from under the table, the ladies are all gone; but he has the satisfaction of seeing the captain's nose is bleeding, as his is Best is cut across the bridge, and his beauty spoiled forever.
UNCLE: In Heaven's name, what does all the row mean? Is the boy in fever The fact is, sir, that the young monkey has fallen in love with Dorothy, and finding her and the captain mighty sweet in the garden today, he was for murdering Jack And, I'll tell you what, Mr. Dugan, I've been insulted grossly in this house. I ain't at all satisfied with these here ways of going on. I'm an Englishman, I am, and a man of property; and I I
HARRY: ( turning to his The fact is, sir, that the young monkey has fallen in love with Dorothy, and finding her and the captain mighty sweet in the garden today, he was for murdering Jack CAPTAIN BEST ( bristling up ) And, I'll tell you what, Mr. Dugan, I've been insulted grossly in this house. I ain't at all satisfied with these here ways of going on. I'm an Englishman, I am, and a man of property; and I I
CAPTAIN BEST: ( bristling up ) And, I'll tell you what, Mr. Dugan, I've been insulted grossly in this house. I ain't at all satisfied with these here ways of going on. I'm an Englishman, I am, and a man of property; and I I
HARRY: If you're insulted, and not satisfied, remember there's two of us, Best. On which, the captain falls to washing his nose in water, and answering never a word.
RODERICK: ( in dignified tone ) Mr. Best may also have satisfaction any time he pleases, by calling on Roderick James, Esquire, of His uncle bursts out laughing, and in this laugh, Captain Grogan joins.
RODERICK: Captain Grogan, I beg you to understand that, for my cousin Harry, who has been my best friend through life, I could put up with rough treatment from him; yet, even that sort of treatment I will bear from him no longer; and any other person who ventures on the like will not like the cost. Mr. Best knows that fact very well; and, if he's man, he'll know where to find me.
UNCLE: It is getting late, and your mother will be anxious about you. One of you had better go home with him. Or the lad may be playing more Both of us ride home with Best here.
HARRY: Both of us ride home with Best here.
CAPTAIN BEST: I'm not afraid of highwaymen. My man is armed, and so am I.
HARRY: You know the use of arms very well, Best, and no one can doubt your courage; but Michael and I will see you home for all that.
UNCLE: Why, you'll not be home till morning, boys. Kilwangan's a good ten miles from here.
HARRY: We'll sleep in Best's quarters. We're going to stop a week there. And, in another week, my boy. And here, Harry whispers something in the Captain's ear.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: I'll go home with the boy.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: A pretty day's work of it you have made, Master Roderick. Knowing your uncle to be distressed for money, and try and break off a match which will bring fifteen hundred a-year into the family? Best has promised to pay off the four thousand pounds which is bothering your uncle so. He takes a girl without a penny a girl that has been flinging herself at the head of every man in these parts these ten years past, and missing them all, and a boy who ought to be attached to your uncle as to your father.
RODERICK: And so I am.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: And this is the return you make for his kindness! Didn't he harbor you in his house when your father died, and hasn't he given you and your mother, rent-free, your fine house of Jamesville yonder?
RODERICK: Mark this, come what will of it, I swear I will fight the man who pretends to the hand of Dorothy Dugan. I'll follow him if it's into the church, and meet him there. I'll have his blood, or he shall have mine. Will you take my message to him, and arrange the meeting?
CAPTAIN GROGAN: Well, if it must be, it must. For a young fellow, you are the most bloodthirsty I ever saw. No officer, bearing His Majesty's commission, can receive a glass of wine on his nose, without resenting it fight you must, and Best is a huge, strong fellow.
RODERICK: He'll give the better mark. I am not afraid of him.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: In faith, I believe you are not; for a lad I never saw more game in my life. Give me a kiss, my dear boy. You're after my own soul. As long as Jack Grogan lives, you shall never want a friend or a second. They embrace.
MOTHER: Thank God, it's fallen towards me! And then, her heart being too full, she leaves the room.
RODERICK: Have you taken my message to him?
CAPTAIN GROGAN: The meeting is arranged. Captain Best is waiting for you now.
RODERICK: My mare is saddled and ready; who's the captain's second?
CAPTAIN GROGAN: Your cousins go out with him. Roderick and Grogan, and the Orderly ride off.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: That's a very handsome sword you have there.
RODERICK: It was with this sword that my late father, Harry James, God rest his soul, met Sir Huddelstone Fuddelstone, the Hampshire baronet, and was fatally run through the neck. He was quite in the wrong, having insulted Lady Fuddelstone, when in liquor, at the Brentford Assembly. But, like a gentleman, he scorned to apologize.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: And now you risk the same fate. If you are killed, your mother is all alone in the world.
RODERICK: I am Harry James' son, and will act as becomes my name and quality.
RODERICK: ( to Captain Grogan ) I hope to spoil this sport, and trust to see this sword of mine in that big bully's body.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: Oh, it's with pistols we fight. You are no match for Best with the I'll match any man with the sword.
RODERICK: I'll match any man with the sword.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: But swords are today impossible; Captain Best is is lame. He knocked his knee against the swinging park gate last night, as he was riding home, and can scarce move it now.
RODERICK: Not against Castle Dugan gate, that has been off the hinges these ten It must have been some other gate. They alight from their horses, and join and salute the other gentlemen.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: It must have been some other gate. They alight from their horses, and join and salute the other gentlemen.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: I have just explained to Mister James that Captain Best is lame, and that swords are impossible.
HARRY: Oh, yes! Dead lame. Harry comes up to shake Roderick by the hand, while Captain Best takes off his hat, and turns extremely red.
HARRY: And very lucky for you, Roderick, my boy. You were a dead man else, for he is a devil of a fellow isn't he, Grogan?
CAPTAIN GROGAN: A regular Turk. I never yet knew the man who stood to Captain Best.
HARRY: Hang the business. I hate it. I'm ashamed of it. Say you're sorry, Roderick. You can easily say that.
CAPTAIN BEST: If the young feller will go to Dublin, as proposed.
RODERICK: I'm not sorry I'll not apologize and I'll as soon go to Dublin as to hell! Grogan takes him aside.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: Look here, Roderick, my boy; this is silly business. The girl will marry Best, mark my words; and as sure as she does, you'll forget her. You are but a boy. Best is willing to consider you as such. Dublin's a fine place, and if you have a mind to take a ride thither and see the town for a month, here are twenty guineas at your service. Make Best an apology, and be off.
RODERICK: A man of honor dies, but never apologizes. I'll see the captain hanged before I apologize.
HARRY: ( with a laugh to There's nothing else for it. Take your ground, Grogan twelve paces, I suppose?
CAPTAIN BEST: ( in a big voice ) Ten, sir, and make them short ones, do you hear, Captain Grogan?
HARRY: Don't bully, Mr. Best. Here are the God bless you, my boy; and when I count three, fire.
RODERICK: This is not one of my pistols.
HARRY: They are all right, never fear. It's one of mine. Yours will serve, if they are needed, for the next Roderick, fire at his neck hit him there under the gorget; see how the fool shows himself open. Michael, who has not spoken a word, Harry, and the Captain retire to one side, and Harry gives the signal. It is slowly given, and Roderick has the leisure to cover his man well. Captain Best changes color and trembles as the numbers are At "three" both pistols go off. Best gives a most horrible groan, staggers backwards and falls.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: Roderick, fire at his neck hit him there under the gorget; see how the fool shows himself open. Michael, who has not spoken a word, Harry, and the Captain retire to one side, and Harry gives the signal. It is slowly given, and Roderick has the leisure to cover his man well. Captain Best changes color and trembles as the numbers are At "three" both pistols go off. Best gives a most horrible groan, staggers backwards and falls.
THE SECONDS: ( crying out ) He's down! He's down! Running towards him, Harry lifts him up Michael takes his head.
MICHAEL: He's hit here, in the neck. Laying open his coat, blood is seen gurgling from under his gorget.
HARRY: How is it with you? The unfortunate man does not answer, but when the support of Harry's arm is withdrawn from his back, groans once more and falls backwards.
MICHAEL: ( with a scowl ) The young fellow has begun well. You had better ride off, young sir, before the police are up. They had wind of the business before we left Is he quite dead?
RODERICK: Is he quite dead?
MICHAEL: Quite dead.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: Then the world's rid of a coward. It's all over with him, Roddy he doesn't stir. He gives the huge prostrate body a scornful kick with his We are not cowards, Grogan, whatever he was! Let's get the boy off as quick as we may. Your man shall go for a cart, and take away the body of this unhappy gentleman. This has been a sad day's work for our family, Roderick James, and you have robbed us of fifteen-hundred a-year.
HARRY: We are not cowards, Grogan, whatever he was! Let's get the boy off as quick as we may. Your man shall go for a cart, and take away the body of this unhappy gentleman. This has been a sad day's work for our family, Roderick James, and you have robbed us of fifteen-hundred a-year.
RODERICK: It was Dorothy did it. Roderick takes the ribbons she gave him out of his waistcoat, and the letter, and flings them down on the body of Captain Best.
RODERICK: There! Take her those ribbons. She'll know what they mean; that's all that's left of her of two lovers she had and ruined.
MICHAEL: And now, in Heaven's name, get the youngster out of the way.
HARRY: I'll go with you. They mount up and gallop off.
HARRY: The boy must go into hiding, for a short time anyway. Dublin is the best place for him to go, and there wait until matters are blown over.
MOTHER: Dublin? But the poor lad has never been away from home. He will be as safe here as in Dublin.
HARRY: I wish that were true, Auntie dear, but I'm afraid the bailiffs may already be on their way from INT. RODERICK'S BEDROOM - DAY His mother is rushing about and packing a valise. Harry sits on the bed.
MOTHER: ( gravely ) Roderick, my darling, my wild boy, I have forebodings that our separation is to be a long one. I spent most of all night consulting the cards regarding your fate in the duel, and all signs betoke a separation. Here is twenty guineas all that I have in the world and I want you to keep your father's sword and pistols, which you have known to use so like a man.
ARMED GENTLEMAN: Good day to you, young sir.
RODERICK: Good morning.
ARMED GENTLEMAN: Where are you bound for?
RODERICK: ( after a long look at That is none of your business.
ARMED GENTLEMAN: Is your mother not afraid on account of the highwayman to let one so young as you travel?
RODERICK: ( pulling out a Not at all, sir. I have a pair of good pistols that have already done execution, and are ready to do it At this, a pock-marked man coming up, the well-armed gentleman spurs into his bay mare, and leaves Roderick.
FOOTMAN: Stop thief! But the country fellows only laugh at his distress, and make all sorts of jokes at the adventure which had just Sure, you might have kept him off with your blunderbush!
RODERICK: What is this noise, fellows? Roderick rides up amongst them, and seeing the lady in the carriage, very pale and frightened, gives a slash of his whip, and bids the red-shanked ruffians keep off. Pulling off his hat, and bringing his mare up in a prance to the chair-window.
RODERICK: What has happened, madam, to annoy your ladyship?
MRS. O'REILLY: Oh, I am grateful to you, sir. I am the wife of Captain O'Reilly hastening to join him at Dublin. My chair was stopped by a highwayman; this great oaf of a servant-man fell down on his knees, armed as he was, and though there were thirty people in the next field, working, when the ruffian attacked, not one of them would help but, on the contrary, wished him "good luck."
RODERICK: ( shouting ) Be off to your work, you pack of rascals, or you will have a good taste of my thong. ( to Mrs. O'Reilly ) Have you lost much?
MRS. O'REILLY: Everything my purse, containing upwards of a hundred guineas, my jewels, my snuff-boxes, watches. And all because this blundering coward fell to his knees.
FOOTMAN: Be fair, ma'am, them wasn't so much. Didn't he return you the thirteen pence in copper, and the watch, saying it was only pinchbeck?
MRS. O'REILLY: Don't be insolent, or I'll report you to the Captain.
FOOTMAN: Sorry, ma'am. He shuffles a few steps away and frowns in the direction that the Captain has vanished.
MRS. O'REILLY: That fool didn't know what was the meaning of a hundred-pound bill, which was in the pocket-book that the fellow took from me.
RODERICK: I am riding to Dublin myself, and if your ladyship will allow me the honor of riding with you, I shall do my best to protect you from further But I shouldn't like to put you to such trouble, Mister.?
MRS. O'REILLY: But I shouldn't like to put you to such trouble, Mister.?
RODERICK: O'Higgins. Mohawk O'Higgins.
RODERICK: ( very gallantly ) As you have been robbed of your purse, may I have permission to lend your ladyship a couple of pieces to pay any expenses which you might incur before reaching your home?
MRS. O'REILLY: ( smiling ) That's very kind of you, Mr. He gives her two gold pieces.
MRS. O'REILLY: You must be very cautious with regard to the company you should meet in Dublin, where rogues and adventurers of all countries abound. I hope you will do me the honor of accepting lodgings in my own house, where Captain O'Reilly will welcome with delight, my gallant young Paying the bill.
CAPTAIN O'REILLY: Mr. O'Higgins, I cannot say how grateful I am for your timely assistance to my wife.
RODERICK: I am only sorry that I was unable to prevent the villain from carrying off all her ladyship's money and Mr. O'Higgins, we are in your debt, and rest assured, sir, you have friends in this house whenever you are in Dublin. Mister O'Higgins, I wonder if I know your good father?
CAPTAIN O'REILLY: Mr. O'Higgins, we are in your debt, and rest assured, sir, you have friends in this house whenever you are in Dublin. Mister O'Higgins, I wonder if I know your good father?
RODERICK: Which O'Higgins do you know? For I have never heard your name mentioned in my family.
CAPTAIN O'REILLY: Oh, I am thinking of the O'Higgins of Redmondstown. General O'Higgins was a close friend of my wife's dear father, Colonel Granby Somerset.
RODERICK: Ah I see. No, I'm afraid mine are the O'Higgins of Watertown.
CAPTAIN O'REILLY: I have heard of them. There are relics of some mutton-chops and onions on a cracked dish before them.
CAPTAIN O'REILLY: My love, I wish I had known of your coming, for Bob Moriaty and I just finished the most delicious venison pasty, which His Grace the Lord Lieutenant, sent us, with a flash of sillery from his own cellar. You know the wine, my dear? But as bygones are bygones, and no help for them, what say ye to a fine lobster and a bottle of as good claret as any in Ireland? Betty, clear these things from the table, and make the mistress and our young friend welcome to our home. Captain O'Reilly searches his pockets for some money to give to Betty.
CAPTAIN O'REILLY: I'm sorry, Mr. O'Higgins, but I don't seem to have any small change. May I borrow a ten-penny piece to give to the girl?
MRS. O'REILLY: I have some money, my dear. Here, Betty, go to the fishmonger and bring back our supper, and mind you get the right change. She takes out one of the golden guineas Roderick gave to INT. DINNING ROOM - LATER They are eating.
CAPTAIN O'REILLY: I needn't ask whether you had a comfortable bed. Young Fred Pimpleton slept in it for seven months, during which he did me the honor to stay with me, and if he was satisfied, I don't know who else wouldn't be.
RODERICK: I shall have to write out a note for the rest of it, Captain O'Reilly.
COUNCILLOR MULLIGAN: Master Roderick, you appear a young fellow of birth and fortune; let me whisper in your ear that you have fallen into very bad hands it's a regular gang of swindlers; and a gentleman of your rank and quality should never be seen in such company. The captain has been a gentleman's gentleman, and his lady of no higher rank. Go home, pack your valise, pay the little trifle you owe me, mount your mare, and ride back again to your parents it's the very best thing you can do. Roderick does not reply, and walks slowly away from him down the street.
CAPTAIN O'REILLY: Whom have I been harboring in my house? Who are you, sirrah?
RODERICK: Sirrah! Sirrah, I am as good a gentleman as any in Ireland!
CAPTAIN O'REILLY: You're an impostor, young man, a schemer, a deceiver!
RODERICK: Repeat the words again, and I run you through the body.
CAPTAIN O'REILLY: Tut, tut! I can play at fencing as well as you, Mr. Roderick James. Ah! You change color, do you? Your secret is known, is it? You come like a viper into the bosom of innocent families; you represent yourself as the heir to my friends the O'Higgins of Castle O'Higgins; I introduce you to the nobility and gentry of this methropolis; I take you to my tradesmen, who give you credit. I accept your note for near two hundred pounds, and what do I find? A fraud. He holds up the name, Roderick James, printed on the Not Master O'Higgins of Watertown, but Roderick James of the devil only knows where. Captain O'Reilly gathers up the linen clothes, silver toilet articles, and the rest of Roderick's gear.
CAPTAIN O'REILLY: Not Master O'Higgins of Watertown, but Roderick James of the devil only knows where. Captain O'Reilly gathers up the linen clothes, silver toilet articles, and the rest of Roderick's gear.
RODERICK: Hark ye, Mr. O'Reilly, I will tell you why I was obliged to alter my name, which is James and the best name in Ireland. I changed it, sir, because, on the day before I came to Dublin, I killed a man in deadly combat an Englishman, sir, and a Captain in His Majesty's service; and if you offer to let or hinder me in the slightest way, the same arm which destroyed him is ready to punish you. So saying, Roderick draws his sword like lightning, and giving a "ha, ha!" and a stamp with his foot, lunges it within an inch of O'Reilly's heart, who starts back and turns deadly pale, while his wife, with a scream, flings herself between them.
MRS. O'REILLY: Dearest Roderick be pacified. O'Reilly, you don't want the poor child's blood. Let him escape in Heaven's name, let him go.
CAPTAIN O'REILLY: ( sulkily ) He may go hang for me, and he's better be off quickly, for I shall go to the magistrate if I see him O'Reilly exits. His wife sits down on the bed and begins to cry.
RODERICK: I will tell you frankly, sir. I am a young gentleman in difficulties; I have killed an officer in a duel, and I am anxious to get out of the But I needn't have troubled myself with any explanations; King George was in too much want of men to heed from whence they came and a fellow of my inches was always welcome. Indeed, I could not have chosen my time better. A transport was lying at Dunleary, waiting for a EXT. BRITISH WARSHIP AT SEA - DAY I never had a taste for any thing but genteel company, and hate all descriptions of low life. Hence my account of the society in which I at present found myself must of necessity be short. The reminiscences of the horrid black- hole of a place in which we soldiers were confined, of the wretched creatures with whom I was now forced to keep company, of the plowmen, poachers, pickpockets, who had taken refuge from poverty, or the law, as, in truth, I had done myself, is enough to make me ashamed even now. Roderick sits very disconsolately over a platter of rancid bacon and moldy biscuit, which is served to him at mess. When it comes to his turn to be helped to drink, he is served, like the rest, with dirty tin noggin, containing somewhat more than half a pint of rum and water. The beaker is so greasy and filthy that he cannot help turning round to the messman and saying:
RODERICK: Fellow, get me a glass! At which, all the wretches round him burst into a roar of laughter, the very loudest among them being Mr. Toole, a red-haired monster of a man.
MR. TOOLE: Get the gentleman a towel for his hands, and serve him a basin of Roars the monster, who is sitting, or rather squatting, on the deck opposite him, and as he speaks, he suddenly seizes Roderick's beaker of grog and empties it in midst of another burst of applause.
RODERICK: Is it a towel of your wife's washing, Mr. Toole? I'm told she wiped your face often with one.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: I had news of you in Dublin. Faith, you've begun early, like your father's son, but I think you could not do better than as you have done. But why did you not write home to your poor mother? She has sent half-a-dozen letters to you in I suppose she addressed them to me in my real name, by which I never thought to ask for them at the post We must write to her today, and you can tell her that you are safe and married to "Brown Bess." Roderick sighs when Grogan says the word "married," on which Grogan says with a laugh:
RODERICK: I suppose she addressed them to me in my real name, by which I never thought to ask for them at the post We must write to her today, and you can tell her that you are safe and married to "Brown Bess." Roderick sighs when Grogan says the word "married," on which Grogan says with a laugh:
CAPTAIN GROGAN: We must write to her today, and you can tell her that you are safe and married to "Brown Bess." Roderick sighs when Grogan says the word "married," on which Grogan says with a laugh:
CAPTAIN GROGAN: I see you are thinking of a certain young lady at Duganstown.
RODERICK: Is Miss Dugan well?
CAPTAIN GROGAN: There's only six Miss Dugans now. poor Dorothy.
RODERICK: Good heavens! Whatever? Has she died of grief?
CAPTAIN GROGAN: She took on so at your going away that she was obliged to console herself with a husband. She is now Mrs. John Best.
RODERICK: Mrs. John Best! Was there another Mr. John Best?!
CAPTAIN GROGAN: No, the very same one, my boy. He recovered from his wound. The ball you hit him with was not likely to hurt him. It was only made of tow. Do you think the Dugans would let you kill fifteen hundred a-year out of the family? The plan of the duel was all arranged in order to get you out of the way, for the cowardly Englishman could never be brought to marry from fear of you. But hit him you certainly did, Roderick, and with a fine thick plugget of tow, and the fellow was so frightened that he was an hour in coming to. We told your mother the story afterwards, and a pretty scene she The coward!
RODERICK: The coward!
CAPTAIN GROGAN: He has paid off your uncle's mortgage. He gave Dorothy a coach- and-six. That coward of a fellow has been making of your uncle's family. Faith, the business was well done. Your cousins, Michael and Harry, never let him out of their sight, though he was for deserting to England, until the marriage was completed, and the happy couple off on their road to Dublin. Are you in want of cash, my boy? You may draw upon me, for I got a couple of hundred out of Master Best for my share and, while they last, you shall never want.
CAPTAIN: Grogan's down; Lakenham, there's your company.
CAPTAIN GROGAN: I should have left you a hundred guineas, Roderick, but for a cursed run of ill-luck last night at faro. He gives Roderick a faint squeeze of the hand; and, as the word is given to advance, Roderick leaves him.
LAKENHAM: Here, you, Roderick James. I will pay you five guineas if you will carry me into the town which is hard by those woods. Roderick and another man take him up in a cloak, and carry him towards the nearby town of Warburg.
PRIVATE: I should get half.
RODERICK: Your share is one guinea. Roderick gives him one guinea.
PRIVATE: He gave you five guineas, and I bloody well expect half.
RODERICK: Go to the devil. The private lifting his musket, hits Roderick a blow with the butt-end of it, which sends him stunned to the ground, allowing his comrade to take the other four guineas from his pocket. Recovering his senses, Roderick bleeding, with a large wound in the head, has barely time to stagger back to the house where he had just left the lieutenant, when he falls fainting at the door, just as the surgeon exits.
LAKENHAM: ( languidly, in pain ) Who are you putting into that bed?
LISCHEN: We have the Corporal, wounded, to you bringing.
LAKENHAM: A corporal? Turn him out. Schicken sie Herrn Koporal weg!
RODERICK: I'm promoted Lieutenant. I've come to take my leave of you. I intend to have your papers and purse.
LAKENHAM: You great scoundrel! You mutinous dog! What do you mean by dressing yourself in my regimentals? As sure as my name's Lakenham, when we get back to the regiment, I'll have your soul cut out of your body. With this, Roderick puts his hand under his pillow, at which Lakenham gives a scream that might have called the whole garrison about his ears. Roderick threatens him with a knife at his throat.
RODERICK: Hark ye, sir! No more noise, or you are a dead man! Roderick, taking his handkerchief, binds it tight round his mouth, and, pulling forward the sleeves of his shirt, ties them in a knot together, and so leaves him, removing the papers and the purse, and wishing him politely a good EXT. WARBURG FARMHOUSE - STREET - DAY Lischen, waiting outside the house, with a saddled horse, throws her arms around him, and makes the tenderest adieu. Roderick mounts his newly-purchased animal, waves his hat gallantly, and, prances away down the street.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: What is your uncle's name?
RODERICK: ( slowly ) CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN ( with a laugh ) Oh, yes, of course, Ambassador EXT. DESOLATE GERMAN ROAD - DAY Roderick and Captain Galgenstein. Their horses' heads together, jogging on. They pass a party of recruits under the armed guard of a red-coated Hanoverian sergeant. He exchanges signs of recognition with Captain CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN It hurts my feelings to be obliged to commune with such wretches, but the stern necessities of war demand men continually, and hence these recruiters whom you see market in human flesh. They get five-and- twenty thaler a man from our government for every man they bring in. For fine men for men like ( he adds laughing ) They would go as high as hundred.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: ( with a laugh ) Oh, yes, of course, Ambassador EXT. DESOLATE GERMAN ROAD - DAY Roderick and Captain Galgenstein. Their horses' heads together, jogging on. They pass a party of recruits under the armed guard of a red-coated Hanoverian sergeant. He exchanges signs of recognition with Captain CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN It hurts my feelings to be obliged to commune with such wretches, but the stern necessities of war demand men continually, and hence these recruiters whom you see market in human flesh. They get five-and- twenty thaler a man from our government for every man they bring in. For fine men for men like ( he adds laughing ) They would go as high as hundred.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: It hurts my feelings to be obliged to commune with such wretches, but the stern necessities of war demand men continually, and hence these recruiters whom you see market in human flesh. They get five-and- twenty thaler a man from our government for every man they bring in. For fine men for men like They would go as high as hundred.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: This is a very good inn. Shall we stop for dinner?
RODERICK: This may be a very good inn for Germany, but it would not pass in old Ireland. Corbach is only a league off, let us push on for Do you want to see the loveliest woman in Europe? Roderick smiles.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: Do you want to see the loveliest woman in Europe? Roderick smiles.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: Ah! You sly rogue, I see that will influence you.
RODERICK: The place seems more a farm than an The people are great farmers, as well as inn-keepers. They enter by a great gate into a court, walled round, and at on end of which is the building, a dingy ruinous place. A couple of covered wagons are in the courtyard; their horses are littered under a shed hard by. Lounging about the place are some men, and a pair of sergeants in the Prussian uniform, who both touch their hats to the captain. The inn has something foreboding about it, and the men shut the great yard-gates as soon as they enter.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: The people are great farmers, as well as inn-keepers. They enter by a great gate into a court, walled round, and at on end of which is the building, a dingy ruinous place. A couple of covered wagons are in the courtyard; their horses are littered under a shed hard by. Lounging about the place are some men, and a pair of sergeants in the Prussian uniform, who both touch their hats to the captain. The inn has something foreboding about it, and the men shut the great yard-gates as soon as they enter.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: ( explaining the gate ) Parties of French horsemen are about the country, and one cannot take too many precautions against such The two sergeant take charge of the horses; the captain orders one of them to take Roderick's valise to his Roderick promises the sergeant a glass of schnapps for his They enter into supper.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: Well, our meal is a frugal one, but a soldier has many a time a worse. Taking off his hat, sword-belt, and gloves, with great ceremony, Galgenstein sits down to eat. Roderick puts his weapons securely on the old chest of drawers where the captain's is laid. The hideous old woman brings in a pot of very sour wine, at which, and at her ugliness, Roderick feels a considerable ill-humor.
RODERICK: ( when she leaves ) Where's the beauty you promised me?
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: ( laughing and looking It was my joke. I was tired, and did not care to go farther. There's not prettier woman here than that. If she won't suit your fancy, my friend, then you must wait awhile. This increases Roderick's ill-humor.
RODERICK: ( sternly ) Upon my word, sir, I think you have acted very coolly.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: I have acted as I think fit.
RODERICK: Sir, I'm a British officer.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: It's a lie! You're a deserter! You're an impostor, sir; Your lies and folly have confirmed this to me. You pretend to carry dispatches to a general who has been dead these ten months; you have an uncle who is an ambassador and whose name you don't know. Will you join and take the bounty, sir, or will you be given Springing at him like a tiger. But, agile as he is, Galgenstein is equally on his guard. He takes two pistols out of his pockets, fires one off, and says, from the other end of the table where he stands dodging Roderick, as it were.
RODERICK: Springing at him like a tiger. But, agile as he is, Galgenstein is equally on his guard. He takes two pistols out of his pockets, fires one off, and says, from the other end of the table where he stands dodging Roderick, as it were.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: Advance a step, and I send this bullet into your brains! The door is flung open, and the two sergeants enter, armed with musket and bayonet to aid their captain. The game is up. Roderick flings down a knife with which he had armed himself, for the old hag, on bringing in the wine, had removed his sword.
RODERICK: I volunteer.
RODERICK: I had formed myself to the condition of the proper fighting beast; on a day of action, I was savage and Roderick saves Captain Galgenstein's life.
COLONEL BULOW: You are a gallant soldier, and have evidently come of good stock; but you are idle, dissolute, and unprincipled; you have done a deal of harm to the men; and, for all your talents and bravery, I am sure you will come to no good.
RODERICK: I hope Colonel Bulow is mistaken regarding my character. I have fallen into bad company, it is true; but I have only done as other soldiers have done; and, above all, I have never had a kind friend and protector before, to whom I might show that I was worthy of better things. The Colonel may say I am a ruined lad, and send me to the devil; but be sure of this, I would go to the devil to serve the Captain Galgenstein looks pleased with Roderick's BERLIN - 1763 Soon after the war ended, our regiment was garrisoned in the capital, the least dull, perhaps, of all the towns of Prussia; but that does not say much for its gaiety.
RODERICK: Private Roderick James. First Hanoverian Guards. Captain Galgenstein sent for me.
PRUSSIAN SERGEANT: You may wait.
RODERICK: Thank you, sir. Roderick stands stiffly. We can make out the sound of loud talking behind the closed door. Enter a private huffing and puffing.
PRIVATE: Sergeant, the wagon has arrived with the Captain's furniture, but the driver says he is not supposed to unload it. Is it possible for you to talk to him? Exit the sergeant, muttering. Roderick, now alone in the office, walks closer to the door so that he can hear what is being said.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: Good morning, Private James. Please come in. I should like you to meet my uncle, Herr Minister of Police How do you do, sir? The Minister nods.
RODERICK: How do you do, sir? The Minister nods.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: Your loyalty to me and your service to the regiment has pleased me very well and now there is another occasion on which you may make yourself useful to us; if you succeed, depend on it, your reward will be your discharge from the army, and a bounty of 100 guineas.
RODERICK: What is the service, sir?
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: There is lately come to Berlin a gentleman in the service of the Empress Queen, who calls himself the Chevalier de Belle Fast, and wears the red riband and star of the pope's order of the Spur. He is made for good society, polished, obliging, a libertine, without prejudices, fond of women, of good food, of high play, prudent and The Captain smiles at Roderick.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: He speaks Italian and French indifferently; but we have some reason to fancy this Monsieur de Belle Fast is a native of your country of Ireland, and that he has come here as a spy. The Captain rises and begins to pace back and forth.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: Naturally, your knowledge of English makes you an ideal choice to go into his service. Of course, you will not know a word of English; and if the Chevalier asks as to the particularity of your accent, say you are Hungarian. The servant who came with him will be turned away today, and the person to whom he has applied for a faithful fellow will recommend you. Roderick nods.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: You are a Hungarian; you served in the army, and left on account of weakness in the loins. He gambles a great deal, and wins. Do you know the cards well?
RODERICK: Only a very little, as soldiers do.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: I had thought you more expert. You must find out if the Chevalier cheats. He sees the English and Austrian envoys continually, and the young men of either ministry sup repeatedly at his house. Find out what they talk of, for how much each plays, especially if any of them play on parole. If you are able to, read his private letters, though about those which go to the post, you need not trouble yourself we look at them there. But never see him write a note without finding out to whom it goes, and by what channel or messenger. He sleeps with the keys of his dispatch-box with a string around his neck twenty frederics, if you get an impression of the keys.
MINISTER GALGENSTEIN: Does this assignment interest you?
RODERICK: Yes, Minister, I am interested in any work in which I can be of service to Captain Galgenstein. The Minister studies Roderick, coldly.
CHEVALIER: You are the young man who M. de Seebach recommended?
RODERICK: Yes, sir. Here is my letter. Roderick bows, and hands him a letter from that gentleman, with which the Captain had taken care to provide him. As the Chevalier reads the letter, Roderick has the leisure to examine him. He is a man of sixty years of age, dressed superbly, wearing rings, diamonds and laces. One of his eyes is closed with a black patch, and he wears a little white and red paint, and a pair of moustachios, which fall over his lip. The Chevalier is seated at a table near the window to read the letter.
CHEVALIER: Your name is Lazlo Zilagyi?
RODERICK: Yes, sir.
CHEVALIER: You come highly recommended by Herr Herr Seebach was a very kind For whom else have you worked?
RODERICK: Herr Seebach was a very kind For whom else have you worked?
CHEVALIER: For whom else have you worked?
RODERICK: No one, sir. Before that I served in the army but had to leave due to weakness of the loins.
CHEVALIER: Who else can give me information about you?
RODERICK: Only the agency of servants. The Chevalier puts the letter down, looks at Roderick for a few seconds, and then smiles.
CHEVALIER: You will do. I will give you 30. a day. I do not provide your clothing; you will sleep at home, and you will be at my orders every morning at seven o'clock. He notices Roderick begin to tremble and look peculiar.
CHEVALIER: Is there something wrong? He goes up to Roderick.
RODERICK: ( as he speaks, Sir, I have a confession to make. I am an Irishman, and my name is Roderick James. I was abducted into the Prussian army two years ago, and now I have been put into your service by my Captain and his uncle, the Minister of Police, to serve as a watch upon your actions, of which I am to give information to the same quarter. For this odious service, I have been promised my discharge, and a hundred guineas. Sobbing, Roderick falls into his arms.
CHEVALIER: The rascals! They think to catch me, do they? Why, young man, my chief conspiracy is a faro-bank. But the king is so jealous, that he will see a spy in every person who comes to his miserable capital, in the great sandy desert here.
CHEVALIER: I'd give five years of my life to see the old country again, the greenfields, and the river, and the old round tower, and the burying EXT. BERLIN - STREET - DAY Roderick and the Chevalier walking.
CHEVALIER: My lad, I have been in every service; and, between ourselves, owe money in every capital in Europe. I have been a rolling stone. Play play has been my ruin! That and beauty. The women have made a fool of me, my dear boy. I am a soft- hearted creature, and this minute, at sixty-two, have no more command of myself than when Peggy O'Dwyer made a fool of me at sixteen.
CHEVALIER: The cards are now my only livelihood. Sometimes I am in luck, and then I lay out my money in these trinkets you see. It's property, look you, and the only way I have found of keeping a little about me. When the luck goes against me, why, my dear, my diamonds go to the pawnbrokers and I wear paste. Do you understand the cards?
RODERICK: I can play as soldiers do, but have no great skill.
CHEVALIER: We will practice in the mornings, my boy, and I'll put you up to a thing or two worth knowing.
RODERICK: He goes to church regularly he is very religious, and after hearing mass comes home to breakfast. Then he takes an airing in his chariot till dinner, which is served at noon. After dinner, he writes his letters, if he has any letters to write; but he has very little to do in this way. His letters are to the Austrian envoy, with whom he corresponds, but who does not acknowledge him; and being written in English, or course, I look over his shoulder. He generally writes for money. He makes his party with Calsabigi, the lottery contractor, the Russian attaches, two from the English embassy, my lords Deuceace and Punter, who play a jeu d'enfer, and a few more. He wins often, but not always. Lord Deuceace is a very fine player. The Chevalier Elliott, the English Minister, sometimes comes, on which occasion the secretaries do not play.
PRINCE: Chevalier, though I cannot say how, I believe you have cheated me.
CHEVALIER: I deny your Grace's accusations, and beg you to say how you have been I don't know.
PRINCE: ( glaring at Roderick ) I don't know.
CHEVALIER: Your Grace owes me seventy thousand frederics, which I have honorably Chevalier, if you will have your money now, you must fight for it. If you will be patient, maybe I will pay you something another time.
PRINCE: Chevalier, if you will have your money now, you must fight for it. If you will be patient, maybe I will pay you something another time.
CHEVALIER: Your Grace, if I am so tame as to take this, then I must give up an honorable and lucrative occupation.
PRINCE: I have said all there is to be said. I am at your disposal for whatever purposes you wish. Good night. He exits.
MINISTER GALGENSTEIN: Was he cheated?
RODERICK: In so far as I can tell these things no. I believe the Chevalier won the money fairly.
MINISTER GALGENSTEIN: CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN What are the Chevalier's intentions?
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: What are the Chevalier's intentions?
RODERICK: I am not sure. The Prince told him quite clearly that if he wished to have the money, he would have to fight for it.
MINISTER GALGENSTEIN: A meeting with the Prince of Turbingen is impossible.
RODERICK: The Prince left him only that The Captain and the Minister walk a few steps away and speak in whispers. Then they return to Roderick.
MINISTER GALGENSTEIN: Will you be able to return here tomorrow without arousing suspicion?
CHEVALIER: Tell them I intend to demand satisfaction from the Prince.
RODERICK: But they will prevent a meeting at whatever the cost.
CHEVALIER: Have no fear. It will come out well for me.
RODERICK: I believe they will deport you.
CHEVALIER: I have faced that problem before.
RODERICK: But, if they send you away, then what is to become of me?
CHEVALIER: ( with a smile ) Make your mind easy, you shall not be left behind, I warrant you. Do take a last look at your barracks, make your mind easy, say a farewell to your friends in Berlin. The dear souls, how they will weep when they hear you are out of the country, and, out of it, you shall go.
RODERICK: But how, sir?
MINISTER GALGENSTEIN: The King has determined to send the Chevalier out of the country.
RODERICK: When is he to go?
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: Has he sent the challenge yet?
RODERICK: Not yet, but I believe he intends Then this must be done tomorrow.
MINISTER GALGENSTEIN: Then this must be done tomorrow.
RODERICK: What is to be done?
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: You say he drives after breakfast and before dinner. When he comes out to his carriage a couple of gendarmes will mount the box, and the coachman will get his orders to move on.
RODERICK: And his baggage?
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: Oh! That will be sent after him. I have a fancy to look into that red box which contains his papers, you say; and at noon, after parade, shall be at the inn. You will not say a word to any one there regarding the affair, and will wait for me at the Chevalier's rooms until my arrival. We must force that box. You are a clumsy hound, or you would have got the key long EXT. CHEVALIER'S APARTMENTS - DAY Action as per voice over.
CHEVALIER: Where is my rascal, Lazlo?
PRUSSIAN OFFICER: ( standing by the I will let down the steps for your No sooner does the Chevalier enter than the officer jumps in after him, another mounts the box by the coachman, and the latter begins to drive.
CHEVALIER: Good gracious! What is this?
PRUSSIAN OFFICER: ( touching his hat ) You are going to drive to the It is shameful infamous! I insist upon being put down at the Austrian ambassador's house.
CHEVALIER: It is shameful infamous! I insist upon being put down at the Austrian ambassador's house.
PRUSSIAN OFFICER: I have orders to gag your honor if you cry out, and to give you this purse containing ten thousand frederics if you do not.
CHEVALIER: Ten thousand? But the scoundrel owes me seventy thousand.
PRUSSIAN OFFICER: Your honor must lower his voice.
CHEVALIER: ( whispering ) All Europe shall hear of this!
PRUSSIAN OFFICER: As you please. Both lapse into silence.
PRUSSIAN OFFICER: Do not be alarmed. The alarm cannon only signals a deserter. Chevalier nods.
CHEVALIER: I have no luggage.
PRUSSIAN OFFICER: The gentleman has nothing The Prussian officers, grinning, hand the Chevalier the purse and take their leave of their prisoner with much The Chevalier de Belle Fast gives them three frederic a- Gentlemen, I wish you a good day. Will you please go to the house from whence we set out this morning, and tell my man there to send my baggage on to Three Kings at Dresden?
CHEVALIER: Gentlemen, I wish you a good day. Will you please go to the house from whence we set out this morning, and tell my man there to send my baggage on to Three Kings at Dresden?
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: ( in his imperious Roderick! Are you there? No answer.
CAPTAIN GALGENSTEIN: The rogue is gone out. Action as per voice over.
CHEVALIER: Where is my servant? Who dares to rob me in open day? Look at the villain whom I find in the act of breaking my chest open! Send for the police, send for his Excellency the Austrian Minister! All Europe shall know of this insult!
LANDLORD: Dear heaven! We saw you go away three hours ago.
CHEVALIER: Me! Why, man, I have been in bed all morning. I am ill I have taken physic I have not left the house this morning! Where is that scoundrel, Lazlo? But, stop! Where are my clothes and wig?
CHAMBERMAID: I have it I have it! Lazlo is off in your honor's dress.
CHEVALIER: And my money my money! Where is my purse with forty-eight frederics in it? But we have one of the villains left, Officers, seize him.
LANDLORD: ( more and more It's the young Herr Galgenstein.
CHEVALIER: What! A gentleman breaking open my trunk with hammer and chisel Herr Galgenstein was returning to life by this time, with a swelling on his skull as big as a saucepan; and the officers carried him off, and, to make a long story short, poor Galgenstein is now on his way to Spandau; and his uncle, the Minister of Police Galgenstein, has brought me five hundred louis, with a humble request that I would leave Berlin forthwith, and hush up this painful matter.
CHEVALIER: Sir, we have but eighty thousand florins in bank, or two hundred thousand at three months; if your highness' bags do not contain more than eight thousand, we will meet And we did, and after eleven hours play, in which our bank was at one time reduced to two hundred and three ducats, we won seventeen thousand florins off him. Four crowned heads look on at the game, and an imperial princess, when Roderick turns up the ace of hearts, bursts into tears.
RODERICK: Do you expect me to believe that your lover brought you here tonight?
VALDEZ: Yes. He brought me in his carriage, and he will call for me at midnight.
RODERICK: And he doesn't care about me?
VALDEZ: He is only curious to know who you If his love were like mine, he would not permit you to come here.
RODERICK: If his love were like mine, he would not permit you to come here.
VALDEZ: He loves me, as I love you.
RODERICK: Will he wish to know the details of this night?
VALDEZ: He will believe that it will please me if he asks about it, and I shall tell him everything except some circumstances which might humiliate EXT. GARDEN - NIGHT Tender Hegenheim.
LANGEAC: I will put in on you myself. She puts it on, out of shot.
LANGEAC: There you are, dressed by my hand. It is nearly the same thing; but despite the fineness and transparency of the skin, the little fellow pleases me less well in costume. It seems that this covering degrades him, or degrades me one of the other.
RODERICK: Both, my angel. It was Love who invented these little jackets: for he had to ally himself with INT. ROOM OFF A BALLROOM - NIGHT Roderick making love to the Countess von Trotha. Enter the Count, in the uniform of a Colonel.
COUNT: I entered here, monsieur, at a bad moment for you; it seems that you love this lady.
RODERICK: Certainly, monseigneur, does not Your Excellency consider her worthy of love?
COUNT: Perfectly so; and what is more, I will tell you that I love her, and that I am not of a humor to put up with rivals.
RODERICK: Very well! Now that I know it, I will no longer love her.
COUNT: Then you yield to me.
RODERICK: On the instant. Everyone must yield to such a nobleman as you.
COUNT: Very well; but a man who yields takes to his legs.
RODERICK: That is a trifle strong.
COUNT: Take to your legs, low Irish dog. Roderick smiles at him.
RODERICK: Your Excellency has wantonly insulted me. That being so, I conclude that you hate me, Monseigneur, and that hence you would be glad to remove me from the number of the living. In this wish, I can and will satisfy Your EXT. BEAUTIFUL GARDEN - EARLY MORNING Roderick's sword duel with the Count. Details to be worked out.
DASCHER: I see that you are without your sword, but I believe you are a man of mettle. Will you give me I shall be delighted; but you have lost and you must pay me the money before we meet, for, after all, you cannot pay me when you are dead.
RODERICK: I shall be delighted; but you have lost and you must pay me the money before we meet, for, after all, you cannot pay me when you are dead.
ANOTHER OFFICER: I will undertake to pay you the 20 louis, but only tomorrow morning at the meeting.
DASCHER: I may have been mistaken, but I mean to make you pay deadly for your Roderick takes the money and puts it in his purse with the utmost calm, making no reply to the other's boasting.
RODERICK: ( privately ) It is distasteful to kill a scoundrel that should be work for a hangman.
CHEVALIER: To risk one's life against such people is an imposition.
RODERICK: ( laughs ) I risk nothing, for I am certain to kill him.
CHEVALIER: Perfectly certain, because I shall make him tremble. He takes his station between two trees, about four paces apart, and draws a pair of dueling pistols.
RODERICK: Perfectly certain, because I shall make him tremble. He takes his station between two trees, about four paces apart, and draws a pair of dueling pistols.
RODERICK: You have only to pace yourself at ten paces difference, and fire first. The space between these two trees is the place where I choose to walk back and forth. You may walk too, if you wish, when it is my turn to fire. No one could have explained his intentions more clearly or spoken more calmly.
DASCHER: But we must decide who is to have the first shot.
RODERICK: There is no need of that. I never fire first; and, in any case, you have that right. Dascher places himself at the specified distance. Roderick walks slowly back and forth between the two trees without looking at him. Dascher takes aim and fires, missing.
RODERICK: ( with the greatest You missed me, sir. I was sure you would. Try again. The others think he is mad, and had expected some kind of discussion between the parties, but not a bit of it. Dascher takes careful aim and fires a second shot, again missing Roderick. Without a word, but in a firm and confident manner, Roderick fires his first shot into the air. Dascher looks amazed. Then, aiming at Dascher with his second pistol, he hits him in the center of the forehead and stretches him out dead on the ground.
RODERICK: I am posting, monsieur, and furthermore I am a foreigner.
STRANGER: Monsieur, here in Saxony, the post has no special right, and if you are a foreigner, you must admit that you have no greater claim than mine, since I am in my own country. At that, Roderick gets out and holding his drawn-sword tells the stranger to get out, or to make way for him. The stranger replies, with a smile, that he has no sword and that, in any case, he will not fight for such a silly He tells Roderick to get back in his chaise, and he makes way for him.
SIR WILLIAM: Hang it, Mr. Roderick James, you have no more manners than a barber, and I think my black footman has been better educated than you; but you are a young fellow of originality and pluck, and I like you, sir. because you seem determined to go to the devil by a way of your own. Laughter at the table.
RODERICK: I am obliged to observe, Sir William Cosgrove, that since you are bound for the next world much sooner than I am, I will depend on you to get comfortable quarters arranged for Indeed, you are right, sir. Look at me. Marriage has added forty years to my life. I am dying, a worn-out cripple, at the age of fifty. When I took off Lady Cosgrove, there was no man of my years who looked so young as myself. Fool that I was! I had enough with my pensions, perfect freedom, the best society in Europe and I gave up all these, and married and was miserable. Take a warning from me, Mr. Roderick, and stick to the trumps. Do anything, but marry.
SIR WILLIAM: Indeed, you are right, sir. Look at me. Marriage has added forty years to my life. I am dying, a worn-out cripple, at the age of fifty. When I took off Lady Cosgrove, there was no man of my years who looked so young as myself. Fool that I was! I had enough with my pensions, perfect freedom, the best society in Europe and I gave up all these, and married and was miserable. Take a warning from me, Mr. Roderick, and stick to the trumps. Do anything, but marry.
RODERICK: Would you have me spend my life all In truth, sir, yes, but, if you must marry, then marry a virtuous drudge.
SIR WILLIAM: In truth, sir, yes, but, if you must marry, then marry a virtuous drudge.
RODERICK: ( laughing ) The milkmaid's daughter?
SIR WILLIAM: Well, why not a milkmaid's daughter? No man of sense need restrict himself or deny himself a single amusement for his wife's sake; on the contrary, if he selects the animal properly, he will choose such a one as shall be no bar to his pleasure, but a comfort in his hours of annoyance. For instance, I have got the gout; who tends me? A hired valet who robs me whenever he has the power. My wife never comes near me. What friend have I? None in the wide world. Men of the world, as you and I are, don't make friends, and we are fools for our Polite laughter at the table.
SIR WILLIAM: My lady is a weak woman, but she is my mistress. She is a fool, but she has got the better of one of the best heads in Christendom. She is enormously rich, but somehow I have never been so poor, as since I married her. I thought to better myself, and she has made me miserable and killed me, and she will do as much for my successor when I'm gone. There is a reflective silence at the table.
RODERICK: Has her ladyship a very large This question causes Sir William to burst out into a yelling laugh, joined by the rest of the table, and makes Roderick blush not a little at his gaucherie.
RODERICK: Charming lady, tell me the truth and earn my gratitude. Have you a The countess laughs.
COUNTESS: Have you had one?
RODERICK: Have you had one?
COUNTESS: But, for a time. a passing fancy?
RODERICK: But, for a time. a passing fancy?
COUNTESS: Not even that.
RODERICK: How can I believe that there is not a man who has inspired desires in Not one.
COUNTESS: Not one.
RODERICK: Have you not a man whom you value?
COUNTESS: That man has, perhaps, not yet been What! You have not met a man worthy of your attention?
RODERICK: What! You have not met a man worthy of your attention?
COUNTESS: Many worthy of attention; but valuing is something more. I could value only someone whom I loved.
RODERICK: Then you have never loved? Your heart is empty.
COUNTESS: Your word "empty" makes me laugh. Is it fortunate, or unfortunate? If it is fortunate, I congratulate myself. If it is unfortunate, I do not care, for I am not aware of it.
RODERICK: It is nonetheless a misfortune, and you will know it when you love.
COUNTESS: But if, when I love, I am unhappy, I will know that my empty heart was my good fortune.
RODERICK: That is true, but it seems to me impossible that you should be unhappy in love.
COUNTESS: It is only too possible. Love requires a mutual harmony which is difficult, and it is even more difficult to make it last.
RODERICK: I agree; but God put us on earth to take that risk.
COUNTESS: A man may need to do that, and find it amusing; but a girl is bound by other laws.
RODERICK: I believe you, and I see I must hasten to leave, for otherwise I shall become the unhappiest of men.
COUNTESS: How so?
RODERICK: By loving you, with no hope of possessing you. She laughs.
COUNTESS: You want my heart?
RODERICK: It is my only object.
COUNTESS: To make me wretched in two weeks.
RODERICK: To love you until death. To subscribe to all your commands.
COUNTESS: The amusing thing is that you deceive me without knowing, if it is true that you love me.
RODERICK: Deceiving someone without knowing it is something new for me. If I do not know it, I am innocent.
COUNTESS: But you deceive me nonetheless if I believe you, for it will not be in your power to love me when you love me no longer. Roderick laughs and kisses her.
COUNTESS: Be so good as to tell me with whom you think you are?
RODERICK: With a woman who is completely charming, be she a princess or a woman of the lowest condition, and who, regardless of her rank, will show me some kindness, tonight. She laughs.
COUNTESS: And if she does not choose to show you some kindness?
RODERICK: Then I will respectfully take leave of her.
COUNTESS: You will do as you please. It seems to me that such a matter can hardly be discussed until after people know each other. Do you not agree?
RODERICK: Yes but I am afraid of being Poor man. And, for that reason, you want to begin where people end?
COUNTESS: Poor man. And, for that reason, you want to begin where people end?
RODERICK: I ask only a payment on account today after that, you will find me undemanding, obedient and She laughs. He kisses her again. They exit.
RODERICK: Will we always leave it at this?
COUNTESS: Always, my dear one, never any further. Love is a child to be pacified with trifles. A full diet can only kill it.
RODERICK: I know better than you do. Love wants a more substantial fare, and if it is stubbornly withheld, it withers away.
COUNTESS: Our abstinence makes our love immortal. If I loved you a quarter of an hour ago, now I should love you even more. But I should love you less if you exhausted my joy by satisfying all my desires.
RODERICK: Let us give each other complete happiness, and let us be sure that as many times as we satisfy our desires, they will each time be born My husband has convinced me of the Sir William Cosgrove is a man who is dying, and yet I envy him more than any man in Christendom. He enjoys a privilege of which I am deprived. He may take you in his arms whenever he pleases, and no veil keeps his senses, his eyes, his soul from enjoying your beauty. She silences him with her fingertips.
COUNTESS: My husband has convinced me of the Sir William Cosgrove is a man who is dying, and yet I envy him more than any man in Christendom. He enjoys a privilege of which I am deprived. He may take you in his arms whenever he pleases, and no veil keeps his senses, his eyes, his soul from enjoying your beauty. She silences him with her fingertips.
RODERICK: Sir William Cosgrove is a man who is dying, and yet I envy him more than any man in Christendom. He enjoys a privilege of which I am deprived. He may take you in his arms whenever he pleases, and no veil keeps his senses, his eyes, his soul from enjoying your beauty. She silences him with her fingertips.
COUNTESS: Shall I tell you something I believed what was called love came after the union and I was surprised when my husband, making me a woman, made me know it only by pain, unaccompanied by any pleasure. I saw that my imaginings had stood me in better stead. And so we became only friends, seldom sleeping together and arousing no curiosity in each other, yet on good terms for a while, as whenever he wanted me, I was at his service, but since the offering was not seasoned with love, he found it tasteless, and seldom demanded it.
RODERICK: O, my dearest love. Enough! I beg you. Stop believing in your experience. You have never known love. My very soul is leaving me! Catch it on your lips, and give me They kiss ardently.
COUNTESS: Without you, my dearest, I might have died without ever knowing love. Inexpressible love! God of nature! Bitterness than which nothing is sweeter, sweetness than which nothing is more bitter. Divine monster which can only be defined by Let me give a thousand kisses to that heavenly mouth which has told me that I am happy.
RODERICK: Let me give a thousand kisses to that heavenly mouth which has told me that I am happy.
COUNTESS: As soon as I saw you loved me, I was pleased, and I gave you every opportunity to fall more in love with me, being certain that, for my part, I would never love you. But after our first kiss, I found that I had no power over myself. I did not know that one kiss could matter so We then spent an hour in the most eloquent silence except that, from time to time, her ladyship cried out: "Oh, my God. Is it true I am not dreaming?"
SIR WILLIAM: Good evening, Mr. James, have you done with my lady?
RODERICK: I beg your pardon?
SIR WILLIAM: Come, come, sir. I am a man who would rather be known as a cuckold than a fool.
RODERICK: I think, Sir William Cosgrove, you have had too much drink. Your chaplin, Mr. Hunt, has introduced me into the company of your lady to advise me on a religious matter, of which she is a considerable expert. Sir William Cosgrove greets this line with a yell of laughter. His laugh is not jovial or agreeable, but rather painful and sardonic, and ends in a violent fit of Gentlemen, see this amiable youth! He has been troubled by religious scruples, and has flown for refuge to my chaplin, Mr. Hunt, who has asked for advise from my wife, Lady Cosgrove, and between them both, they are confirming my ingenious young friend in his faith. Did you ever hear of such doctors and such a Faith, sir, if I want to learn good principles, it's surely better I should apply for them to your lady, and your chaplin than to you?
SIR WILLIAM: Gentlemen, see this amiable youth! He has been troubled by religious scruples, and has flown for refuge to my chaplin, Mr. Hunt, who has asked for advise from my wife, Lady Cosgrove, and between them both, they are confirming my ingenious young friend in his faith. Did you ever hear of such doctors and such a Faith, sir, if I want to learn good principles, it's surely better I should apply for them to your lady, and your chaplin than to you?
RODERICK: Faith, sir, if I want to learn good principles, it's surely better I should apply for them to your lady, and your chaplin than to you?
SIR WILLIAM: ( laughing, but pretty He wants to step into my shoes! He wants to step into my shoes! Roderick stares at him coldly.
RODERICK: Well, if my intentions are what you think they are if I do wish to step into your shoes, what then? I have no other intentions than you had yourself. Lady Cosgrove's wealth may be great, but am I not of a generous nature enough to use it worthily? Her rank is lofty, but not so lofty as my ambition. I will be sworn to muster just as much regard for my Lady Cosgrove as you ever showed her; and if I win her, and wear her when you are dead and gone, corbleu, knight, do you think that it will be the fear of your ghost will deter me?
SIR WILLIAM: Is it not a pleasure, gentlemen, for me, as I am drawing near the goal, to find my home such a happy one; my wife so fond of me, that she is even now thinking of appointing a successor? Isn't it a comfort to see her; like a prudent housewife, getting everything ready for her husband's departure?
RODERICK: I hope that you are not thinking of leaving us soon, knight?
SIR WILLIAM: Not so soon, my dear, as you may fancy perhaps. Why, man, I have been given over many times these four years, and there was always a candidate or two waiting to apply for the situation. Who knows how long I may keep you waiting.
RODERICK: Sir, let those laugh that win.
SIR WILLIAM: I am sorry for you Mr. James. I'm grieved to keep you or any gentleman waiting. Had you not better to arrange with my doctor or get the cook to flavor my omelette with arsenic? What are the odds, gentlemen, that I don't live to see Mr. James hang yet? There is laughter around the table, and Sir William starts dealing the cards.
VOICE: Dies at Spa, in the Kingdom of Belgium, the Right Honorable Sir William Cosgrove, Knight of the Bath, Member of Parliament for Cosgrove and Devonshire and many years His Majesty's representative at various European courts. He hath left behind him a name which is endeared to all his friends for his manifold virtues and talents, a reputation justly acquired in the service of His Majesty, and an inconsolable widow to deplore his Sir Williams keels over dead.
COUNTESS: My Lord Brookside, come and embrace your papa! Brookside walks slowly towards them, and shakes his fist in Roderick's face.
BROOKSIDE: He, my father! I would as soon call one of your ladyship's footmen, Roderick laughs, as the Countess unsuccessfully tries to get the boy to shake hands.
COUNTESS: Lord Brookside, you have offended your father.
BROOKSIDE: Mother, you have offended my father.
BROOKSIDE: Dear child, what a pity it is I am not dead for your sake! The Cosgroves would then have a worthy representative, and enjoy all the benefits of the illustrious blood of the James' of Duganstown, would they not, Mr. James Cosgrove?
MOTHER: Ah, Roderick, it's a blessing to see that my darling boy has attained a position I always knew was his due, and for which I pinched myself to educate him. Little Patrick is a darling boy, and you live in great splendor, but how long will it last? Your lady-wife knows she has a treasure she couldn't have had, had she taken a duke to marry her, but if, one day, she should tire of my wild Roderick and his old-fashioned Irish ways, or if she should die, what future would there be for my son and grandson?
MOTHER: You have not a penny of your own, and cannot transact any business without the Countess' signature. Upon her death, the entire estate would go to young Brookside, who bears you little affection. You could be penniless tomorrow, and darling Patrick at the mercy of his INT. MOTHER'S ROOM - CASTLE HACKTON - NIGHT Roderick and his mother.
MOTHER: I shall tell you a secret I shall not rest until I see you Earl of Duganstown, and my grandson, a Lord She smooths down Roderick's hair.
MOTHER: This head would become a coronet.
MOTHER: These things entail considerable expense, and you will need your lady's blessing, but the young boy forms the great bond of union between you and her ladyship, and there is no plan of ambition you could propose in which she would not join for the poor lad's benefit, and no expense she will not eagerly incur, if it might be any means be shown to tend to his advancement. You have important friends, and they can tell you how these things are INT. LONDON GAMING ROOM - NIGHT Standing away from the play tables, Roderick chats with Lord West, a fat giant of a man.
LORD WEST: Do you happen to know Gustavus Adolphus, the thirteenth Earl of By name only.
RODERICK: By name only.
LORD WEST: Well, sir, this nobleman is one of the gentlemen of His Majesty's closet, and one with whom our revered monarch is on terms of considerable intimacy. I should say you would be wise to fix upon this nobleman your chief reliance for the advancement of your claim to the Viscounty which you propose to get.
GEORGE III: That's right, Mr. Cosgrove, raise another company, and go with them, INT. COFFEE HOUSE - NIGHT Crabs was really one of the most entertaining fellows in the world, and I took a sincere pleasure in his company, besides the interest and desire I had in cultivating the society of the most important personages of the realm. Roderick clumsily tries to engage in conversation with the famed Dr. Johnson, on the subject of a book or play, of the day, and is rebuffed for his trouble.
JOHNSON: If I were you, Mr. Cosgrove, I should mind my horses and tailors and not trouble myself about Laughter, Roderick bristles.
RODERICK: Dr. Johnson, I think you misbehave most grossly, treating my opinions with no more respect than those of a schoolboy. You fancy, sir, you know a great deal more than me, because you quote your "Aristotle" and "Plato," but can you tell me which horse will win at Epsom Downs next week? Can you shoot the ace of spades ten times without missing? If so, talk about Aristotle and Plato with me.
BOSWELL: ( roars ) Do you know who you're speaking to?!
JOHNSON: Hold your tongue, Mr. Boswell, I had no right to brag of my Greek, gentlemen, and he has answered me very well.
RODERICK: ( pleased ) Do you know ever a rhyme for ( laughing ) Port, if you please.
GOLDSMITH: ( laughing ) Port, if you please.
JOHNSON: Waiter, bring on of Captain James' rhymes for Aristotle.
HENRI: I am at your service, Mr. Cosgrove. How much do you wish to spend?
RODERICK: As much as possible.
HENRI: As much as possible?
RODERICK: Yes, for I wish to entertain All the same, you must name an It is entirely up to you. I want the best.
HENRI: All the same, you must name an It is entirely up to you. I want the best.
RODERICK: It is entirely up to you. I want the best.
RODERICK: Will that be enough?
HENRI: Last month, the Duke of Suffolk spent no more.
RODERICK: All right, five hundred guineas.
PATRICK: Papa, please don't flog Brookside today. It wasn't his fault really is wasn't. Roderick ignores him.
BROOKSIDE: ( grinding his teeth ) Look you now, Mister Roderick James, from this moment on, I will submit to no further chastisement from you! Do you understand that?
RODERICK: Give me that pistol.
BROOKSIDE: Take heed, Mister James. I will shoot you if you lay hands on me now, or ever again. Is that entirely clear to you, sir? Roderick stares hard at him, then he laughs and sits down.
BROOKSIDE: ( very loudly ) Don't you think he fits my shoes very well, Sir Richard Wargrave? Upon which, the company begins to look at each other and to titter, and his mother comes up to Lord Brookside with great dignity, seizes the child to her breast, and says:
COUNTESS: From the manner in which I love this child, my lord, you ought to know how I would have loved his elder brother, had he proved worthy of any mother's affection. Brookside is stunned by his mother's words.
BROOKSIDE: Madam, I have borne as long as mortal could endure the ill- treatment of the insolent Irish upstart, whom you have taken into your bed. It is not only the lowness of his birth, and the general brutality of his manners which disgusts me, but the shameful nature of his conduct towards your ladyship, his brutal and ungentlemanlike behavior, his open infidelity, his habits of extravagance, intoxication, his shameless robberies and swindling of my property and yours. It is these insults to you which shock and annoy me more than the ruffian's infamous conduct to myself. I would have stood by your ladyship, as I promised, but you seem to have taken latterly your husband's part; and, as I cannot personally chastise this low-bred ruffian, who, to our shame be it spoken, is the husband of my mother, and as I cannot bear to witness his treatment of you, and loathe his horrible society as if it were the plague, I am determined to quit my native country, at least during his detested life, or during my own. Bursting into tears, Lady Cosgrove leaves the room. Roderick loses control, and rushes at Brookside, knocking down Lords, Dukes and Generals, left and right, who try to The company is scandalizes by the entire incident.
RODERICK: Sire, my Lord Brookside has set sail to fight the rebels against Your Majesty's crown in America. Does Your Majesty desire that I should send another company to aid him? The King stares at Roderick, turns on his heel and quickly leaves the presence-chamber. Roderick is approached by the Duke of Rutland, who takes him aside into an alcove.
RODERICK: Thus it is that my loyalty is rewarded, and my sacrifices in favor of my country viewed!
RODERICK: I insist upon being allowed to appear before His Majesty and clear myself of the imputations against me, to point out my services to the government, and to ask when the reward, that had been promised me, the title held by my ancestors, is again to be revived in my person. There is a sleepy coolness in the fat Lord West. He hears Roderick with half-shut eyes. When he finishes his violent speech, which he has made striding about the room, Lord West opens one eye, smiles, and says:
LORD WEST: ( gently ) Have you done, Mr. Cosgrove?
RODERICK: LORD WEST Well, Mr. Cosgrove, I'll answer you point by point. The King is exceedingly averse to make peers, as you know. Your claim, as you call them, have been laid before him, and His Majesty's gracious reply was, that you were the most impudent man in his dominions, and merited a halter, rather than a coronet. As for withdrawing your support from us, you are perfectly welcome to carry yourself whithersoever you please. And, now, as I have a great deal of occupation, perhaps you will do me the favor to retire, or tell me if there is anything else in the world in which I can oblige you. So saying, Lord West raises his hand lazily to the bell, and bows Roderick out.
LORD WEST: Well, Mr. Cosgrove, I'll answer you point by point. The King is exceedingly averse to make peers, as you know. Your claim, as you call them, have been laid before him, and His Majesty's gracious reply was, that you were the most impudent man in his dominions, and merited a halter, rather than a coronet. As for withdrawing your support from us, you are perfectly welcome to carry yourself whithersoever you please. And, now, as I have a great deal of occupation, perhaps you will do me the favor to retire, or tell me if there is anything else in the world in which I can oblige you. So saying, Lord West raises his hand lazily to the bell, and bows Roderick out.
BROKER: Your wife's life is as well known among the insurance societies in London, as any woman in Christendom, and, I'm sorry to say there is not one of them willing to place another policy against her ladyship's life. One of them even had the impudence to suggest that your treatment of the Countess did not render her life worth a year's purchase.
RODERICK: Timmy, take the injured lad to see the doctor, and then bring the horse to Doolan's farm, and tell him to break him in thoroughly. Tell him it's for little Patrick, and that I'll be over to see him next week.
RODERICK: One more thing, and listen well, I don't want little Patrick to know where the horse is being kept. It's going to be surprise for his EXT. CASTLE HACKTON - DAY Patrick rushes out to greet his father.
PATRICK: Hello, papa! Roderick picks him up in his arms, and kisses him.
PATRICK: Did you buy the horse, papa?
RODERICK: Now, just have a little patience, my boy. Your birthday isn't until next But I will have it on my birthday, won't I?
PATRICK: But I will have it on my birthday, won't I?
RODERICK: Well, we'll just have to wait and see, won't we? He walks up the steps holding Patrick, who hugs and kisses My son, little Patrick Cosgrove, was a prince; his breeding and manners, even at his early age, showed him to be worthy of the two noble families from whom he was descended, and I don't know what high hopes I had for the boy, and indulged in a thousand fond anticipations as to his future success and figure in the world, but stern Fate had determined that I should leave none of my race behind INT. CASTLE HACKTON - DINING ROOM - NIGHT Roderick is drunk. Patrick is brought in by his governor, Hunt, to say good night. His kisses his mother first, then approaches Roderick.
PATRICK: ( kissing him ) Good night, papa.
RODERICK: Good night, my little darling.
PATRICK: One of the boys in the stable told Nelly that you've already bought my horse, and that it's at Doolan's farm, where Mick the groom is breaking it in. Is that true, papa?
RODERICK: One of the boys in the stable told Nelly that you've already bought my horse, and that it's at Doolan's farm, where Mick the groom is breaking it in. Is that true, papa?
PATRICK: One of the boys in the stable told Nelly that you've already bought my horse, and that it's at Doolan's farm, where Mick the groom is breaking it in. Is that true, papa?
RODERICK: ( angered ) What the devil? What kind of fools do we have here? Pottle, who told the lad this story?
HUNT: I don't know, sir.
PATRICK: Then it's true! It's true! Oh, thank you, papa! Thank you! He hugs his father.
COUNTESS: Promise me, Patrick, that you will not ride the horse except in the company of your father.
PATRICK: ( unconvincingly ) I promise, mama.
RODERICK: I promise your lordship a good flogging if you even so much as go to Doolan's farm to see him.
PATRICK: Yes, papa.
RODERICK: I'm sorry to disturb you, sir, but Mr. Hunt has something important to tell you.
VALET: I'm sorry to disturb you, sir, but Mr. Hunt has something important to tell you.
RODERICK: I think Master Patrick has disobeyed your orders and stolen off to Doolan's farm. When I went to the lad's room this morning, his bed was empty. One of the cooks said she saw him go away before daybreak. He must have slipped through my room while I was asleep.
HUNT: I think Master Patrick has disobeyed your orders and stolen off to Doolan's farm. When I went to the lad's room this morning, his bed was empty. One of the cooks said she saw him go away before daybreak. He must have slipped through my room while I was asleep.
PATRICK: You won't whip me, will you, papa? Roderick bursts out into tears in reply.
PATRICK: ( weakly ) Papa, I beg you and mama to pardon me for any acts of disobedience I have been guilty of towards you.
COUNTESS: ( weeping ) Oh, my little angel, you have done nothing for which you need pardon.
PATRICK: Where is Brooksy? I would like to see him.
RODERICK: Your bother is in America fighting the rebels.
PATRICK: Is he all right, papa?
RODERICK: Yes, he's fine.
PATRICK: Brooksy was better than you, papa, he used not to swear so, and he taught me many good things while you were away. Patrick takes a hand of his mother and of Roderick, in each of his little clammy ones.
PATRICK: I beg you not to quarrel so, but to love each other, so that we might meet again in heaven where Brooksy told me quarrelsome people never go. His mother is much affected by these admonitions, and Roderick is too. Patrick gives Roderick a ring from his finger, and a locket to his mother. He says that these gifts are so that they will not forget At last, after two days, he died. There he lay, the hope of my family, the pride of my manhood, the link which kept me and my Lady Cosgrove EXT. CHURCH - GRAVEYARD - DAY I won't tell you with what splendor we buried him, but what avail are undertakers' feathers and heralds' EXT. CASTLE HACKTON - STABLE - DAY Roderick enters the stable and, after a few seconds, we hear a pistol shot. He exits rapidly, the smoking pistol still in his hand.
RODERICK: ( reading letter "This day, three years ago, my last hope and pleasure in life was taken from me, and my dear child was called to Heaven. Where is his neglected brother, whom I suffered to grow up unheeded by my side, and whom the tyranny of the monster to whom I am united drove to exile, and, perhaps to death? I pray the child is still alive and safe. Charles Brookside! Come to the aide of a wretched mother, who acknowledges her crime, her coldness towards you, and now bitterly pays for her error! What sufferings, what humiliations have I had to endure! I am a prisoner in my own halls. I should fear poison, but then I know the wretch has a sordid interest in keeping me alive, and that my death would be the signal for his ruin. But I dare not stir without my odious, hideous, vulgar gaoler, the horrid Irish woman, who purses my every step. I am locked into my chamber at night, like a felon, and only suffered to leave it when ordered into the presence of my lord, to be present at his orgies with his boon-companions, and to hear his odious converse as he lapses into the disgusting madness of intoxication."
COUNTESS: Roderick, you know well enough that I have never loved but you! Was I ever so wretched that a kind word from you did not make me happy? Ever so angry, but the least offer of good-will on your part did not bring me to your side? Did I not give a sufficient proof of my affection for you in bestowing one of the finest fortunes of England upon you? Have I repined or rebuked you for the way you have wasted it? No, I loved you too much and too fondly; I have always loved you. From the first moment I saw you, I saw your bad qualities, and trembled at your violence; but I could not help loving you. I married you, though I knew I was sealing my own fate in doing so, and in spite of reason and duty. What sacrifice do you want from me? I am ready to make any, so you will but love me, or, if not, that at least, you will gently us me. Roderick kisses her.
MOTHER: Depend on it, artful hussy has some other scheme in her head now.
NEWCOMBE: I have good news for you, Mr. Cosgrove. The firm of Bracegirdle and Chatwick, in the city of London, are prepared to lend you 20,000 pounds, pledged against your interest in the Edric mines. They will redeem the encumbrances against the property, which amount to some 10,000 pounds, and take a twenty- year working lease on the mines. They will lend you the 20,000 pounds against the lease income, which they will apply to the loan as it comes in, and they will make a charge of 18% per annum interest on the outstanding loan balance.
RODERICK: Mr. Newcombe, I have made some difficult loans during the past few years, at very onerous terms, but 18% a year interest seems very stiff Considering your financial circumstances, Mr. Cosgrove, it has been impossible to find anyone at all prepared to do any business with you. I think you may count yourself lucky to have this opportunity. But, obviously, if you would reject this offer, I shall keep trying to find a better one.
NEWCOMBE: Considering your financial circumstances, Mr. Cosgrove, it has been impossible to find anyone at all prepared to do any business with you. I think you may count yourself lucky to have this opportunity. But, obviously, if you would reject this offer, I shall keep trying to find a better one.
RODERICK: ( after a pause ) I am prepared to accept the terms, Mr. Newcombe.
NEWCOMBE: There are a few other points we should discuss. The loan agreement can only be executed by her ladyship's signature, and provided that Bracegirdle and Chatwick can be assured of her ladyship's freewill in giving her signature.
RODERICK: Provided that they can be assured of her ladyship's freewill? Are you May I be quite frank with you?
NEWCOMBE: May I be quite frank with you?
RODERICK: Yes, of course.
NEWCOMBE: Mister Bracegirdle said to me that he had heard her ladyship lives in some fear of her life, and meditated a separation, in which case, she might later repudiate any documents signed by herself while in durance, and subject them, at any rate, to a doubtful and expensive litigation. They were quite insistent on this point, and said they must have absolute assurance of her ladyship's perfect freewill in the transaction before they would advance a shilling of their capital.
RODERICK: I see.
NEWCOMBE: When I asked them in what form they would accept her ladyship's assurances, they said that they were only prepared to accept them if her ladyship confirms her written consent by word of mouth, in their presence, at their counting-house in Birchin Lane, London. I requested they come here, and save her ladyship and yourself the inconvenience of the trip to London, but they declined, saying that they did not wish to incur the risk of a visit to Castle Hackton to negotiate, as they were aware of how other respectable parties, such as Messrs. Sharp and Salomon had been treated here.
MOTHER: Depend on it, there is some artifice. When once you get into that wicked town, you are not safe. There are scores of writs out against you for debt. If you are taken in London, and thrown into prison, your case is hopeless.
RODERICK: Mother dear, we are now living off our own beef and mutton. We have to watch Lady Cosgrove within and the bailiffs without. There are certain situations in which people cannot dictate their own terms; and faith, we are so pressed now for money, that I would sign a bond with old Nick himself, if he would provide a good round sum. With this money, we can settle our principal debts and make a fresh start.
MOTHER: Roderick, you must listen to me. As soon as they have you in London, they will get the better of my poor innocent lad; and the first thing that I shall hear of you will be that you are in trouble. You will be a victim of your own generous and confiding nature.
COUNTESS: Why go, Roderick? I am happy here, as long as you are kind to me, as you now are. We can't appear in London as we ought; the little money you will get will be spent, like all the rest has been. Let us stay here and be content. She takes his hand and kisses it.
MOTHER: Humph! I believe she is at the bottom of it the wicked schemer.
COUNTESS: Roderick don't go in. I am sure there is danger. There's time yet, let us go back anywhere! The Countess has put herself before the door in a theatrical attitude and takes Roderick's hand. He pushes her away to one side.
RODERICK: Lady Cosgrove, you are an old fool.
COUNTESS: Old fool! She jumps at the bell, which is quickly answered by a moldy-looking gentleman in an unpowered wig.
COUNTESS: Say Lady Cosgrove is here! She stalks down the passage, muttering: "Old Fool."
COUNTESS: Oh fool as I am, I have outwitted the most crafty and treacherous monster under the sun. Yes, I was a fool when I married you, and gave up other and nobler hearts for your sake yes, I was a fool when I forgot my name and lineage to unite myself with a base-born adventurer a fool to bear, without repining, the most monstrous tyranny that ever woman suffered; to allow my property to be squandered; to see women as base and low-born as yourself.
TAPEWELL: For heaven's sake, be calm. Tapewell bounds back behind the constables, seeing a threatening look in Roderick's eye. The Countess continues in a strain of incoherent fury, screaming against Roderick, and against his mother, and always beginning and ending the sentence with the word You didn't tell all, my lady I said "old" fool.
RODERICK: You didn't tell all, my lady I said "old" fool.
BROOKSIDE: I have no doubt that you said and did, sir, everything that a blackguard could say or do. This lady is now safe under the protection of her relations and the law, and need fear your infamous persecutions no longer.
RODERICK: But you are not safe, and as sure as I am a man of honor, I will have your heart's blood.
TAPEWELL: Take down his words, constables; swear the peace against him.
BROOKSIDE: I would not sully my sword with the blood of such a ruffian. If the scoundrel remains in London another day, he will be seized as a common Where's the man who will seize me? He draws his sword, placing his back to the door.
RODERICK: Where's the man who will seize me? He draws his sword, placing his back to the door.
RODERICK: Let the scoundrel come! You you cowardly braggart, come first, if you have the soul of a man! The Countess and the bailiffs move away.
TAPEWELL: We are not going to seize you! My dear sir, we don't wish to seize you; we will give you a handsome sum to leave the country, only leave her ladyship in peace.
BROOKSIDE: And the country will be rid of such a villain. As Brookside says this, he backs into the next room. The lawyer follows him, leaving Roderick alone in the company of the constables who are all armed to the teeth.
RODERICK: Gentlemen, I shall have no violence; you may tell Mr. Tapewell I am quite ready to speak with him when he is at leisure. Roderick sits down and folds his arms quite peaceably.
TAPEWELL: I have been authorized by Lady Cosgrove and her advisors to pay you an annuity of 300 pounds a year, specifically on the condition of you remaining abroad out of the three kingdoms, and to be stopped on the instant of your return. I advise you to accept it without delay for you know, as well as I do, that your stay in London will infallibly plunge you in gaol, as there are innumerable writs taken out against you here and in the west of England, and that your credit is so blown upon that you could not hope to raise a shilling. I will leave you the night to consider this proposal, but if you refuse, the family will proceed against you in London, and have you arrested. If you accede, a quarter salary will be paid to you at any foreign port you should Mr. Tapewell, I do not require a night to consider this proposal. What other choice has a poor, lonely and broken-hearted man? I shall take the annuity, and leave the I am very glad to hear that you have come to this decision, Mr. Cosgrove. I think you are very wise. There is a knock at the door and Roderick opens it. Brookside enters with four constables armed with pistols. The dialogue for this scene has to be written. Brookside has gone against the bargain, and has decided to have Roderick arrested upon one of the many writs out against him for debt. Mr. Tapewell is surprised and complains weakly that Brookside is acting in bad faith. Brookside brushes aside his objections. Roderick is defeated, and meekly sits down in a chair. The following lines are read over Roderick being shackled and led out of the room.
RODERICK: Mr. Tapewell, I do not require a night to consider this proposal. What other choice has a poor, lonely and broken-hearted man? I shall take the annuity, and leave the I am very glad to hear that you have come to this decision, Mr. Cosgrove. I think you are very wise. There is a knock at the door and Roderick opens it. Brookside enters with four constables armed with pistols. The dialogue for this scene has to be written. Brookside has gone against the bargain, and has decided to have Roderick arrested upon one of the many writs out against him for debt. Mr. Tapewell is surprised and complains weakly that Brookside is acting in bad faith. Brookside brushes aside his objections. Roderick is defeated, and meekly sits down in a chair. The following lines are read over Roderick being shackled and led out of the room.
MR. TAPEWELL: I am very glad to hear that you have come to this decision, Mr. Cosgrove. I think you are very wise. There is a knock at the door and Roderick opens it. Brookside enters with four constables armed with pistols. The dialogue for this scene has to be written. Brookside has gone against the bargain, and has decided to have Roderick arrested upon one of the many writs out against him for debt. Mr. Tapewell is surprised and complains weakly that Brookside is acting in bad faith. Brookside brushes aside his objections. Roderick is defeated, and meekly sits down in a chair. The following lines are read over Roderick being shackled and led out of the room.
NARRATOR: Mr. James Cosgrove's personal narrative finishes here, for the hand of death interrupted the ingenious author soon after the period which this memoir was compiled, after he had lived nineteen years an inmate of the Fleet Prison, where the prison records state he died of delirium EXT. FLEET PRISON - DAY His mother, now very old and hobbled with arthritis, enters the prison, carrying a basket on her arm.
NARRATOR: His faithful old mother joined him in his lonely exile, and had a bedroom in Fleet Market over the way. She would come and stay the whole day with him in prison INT. CASTLE HACKTON - COUNTESS' STUDY Signing a payment draft, the Countess sighs and gazes out of the large window.
NARRATOR: The Countess was never out of love with her husband, and, as long as she lived, James enjoyed his income of 300 pounds per year and was, perhaps, as happy in prison, as at any period of his existence.
NARRATOR: When her ladyship died, her son sternly cut off the annuity, devoting the sum to charities, which, he said, would make a nobler use of it than the scoundrel who had enjoyed it hitherto.
NARRATOR: When the famous character lost his income, his spirit entirely failed. He was removed into the pauper's ward, where he was known to black boots for wealthier prisoners, and where he was detected in stealing a tobacco box.
NARRATOR: His mother attained a prodigious old age, and the inhabitants of the place in her time can record, with accuracy, the daily disputes which used to take place between mother and son, until the latter, from habits of intoxication, falling into a state of almost imbecility, was tended by his tough old parent as a baby almost, and would cry if deprived of his necessary glass of TITLE CARD It was in the reign of George III that the above-named personages lived and quarreled; good or bad, handsome or ugly, rich or poor, they are all equal now.
TITLE CARD: It was in the reign of George III that the above-named personages lived and quarreled; good or bad, handsome or ugly, rich or poor, they are all equal now.
THE END: Writers : Stanley Kubrick
