MARC: The colonel. Where's the colonel?
PARAS: Why? What's happening?
MARC: We know where Ali la Pointe is. One of them "spoke" . His voice echoes through the corridors, on the landings, from one floor to another. The excitement is contagious. Many crowd around the door of the kitchen.
PARA: C'mon, let him breathe! Meanwhile others who are arriving ask if it is true.
OTHER PARAS: So he spoke? Does he really know where Ali is?
MARC: It seems so. We'll go see. Give him a little coffee. Marc is tall and husky, his eyes young and cheerful. One of the others asks him with a shade of admiration:
PARA: Hey Marc, you made him talk?
MARC: ( smiling ) He then begins to smoke again, and moves aside to rest a bit. The Algerian is trying to drink, but his hands are trembling. Someone helps him and holds still the cover of the thermos, drawing it to his C'mon Sadek . Drink, you'll feel better. The Algerian drinks, but his stomach can't take it, causing him to double over and vomit again. Colonel Mathieu enters, elegant and graceful.
LAGLOY: C'mon Sadek . Drink, you'll feel better. The Algerian drinks, but his stomach can't take it, causing him to double over and vomit again. Colonel Mathieu enters, elegant and graceful.
MATHIEU: ( smiling ) At ease. Is it true?
MARC: I think so. Rue des Abderames three .
MATHIEU: Dress him. Then he goes near the Algerian, lifts his chin, inspects him for a moment with curiosity.
MATHIEU: Chin up, it's all over. Nothing can happen to you now, you'll see. Can you stand up?
MATHIEU: Let him go. He takes the camouflage fatigues and hands them to the Algerian.
MATHIEU: Here, put them on.
MATHIEU: We're trying to help you. We're going to the Casbah. Dressed like this, they won't be able to recognize you. Understand? We're going to see the place, then you'll be free . and under our protection . The Algerian shivers from the cold. He is completely naked. He laboriously puts on the fatigues which are too big for him.
MATHIEU: Go on, give him the cap. They give him a wide belt and buckle it. The other paras, one on either side of him, pull up his sleeves to the elbows. A third places the cap on his head and cocks it.
LAGLOY: The colonel turn to him angrily:
MATHIEU: Don't be an idiot, Lagloy!
CAPTAIN: Let's go.
SADEK: and tries to jerk forward toward the window. Marc seizes him immediately, and with his right hand grabs him by the chest, almost lifting him. With his left hand he gives him two quick slaps, not very hard.
MARC: ( persuadingly ) What do you think you're doing, you fool? Do you want us to start all over again? C'mon, be good. Don't make me look like an idiot in front of the others.
CAPTAIN: Fire .
CAPTAIN: The Algerian nods yes. They enter.
CAPTAIN: ( off ) Ali la Pointe . the house is surrounded. You haven't got a chance. Surrender. Let the child and the girl come out, then you and the other one. Leave your weapons inside. It's useless to try anything. Our machine guns are ready to fire you wouldn't have time. Do you understand?
CAPTAIN: ( off ) Ali, do you hear me? Listen! You are the last one. The organization is finished. All your friends are dead or in prison. Come out. You'll have a fair trial. Come out, surrender.
VOICES PARAS: Why are they breathing so heavily? Fear . Air . They haven't got enough air inside . And again the voice of the captain, clear and somewhat distant:
CAPTAIN: ( off ) Make up your mind, Ali? Do you want us to wall you in, or do you prefer that we blow you to pieces? . Alright. So much the worse for you. Ali's expression is still firm; his stare is dark and sullen.
SPEAKER: "National Liberation Front! Algerian brothers! The time has come to break loose at long last from the bonds of misery in which one hundred and thirty years of colonial oppression has kept us chained. The moment of struggle is near; our goal national independence ."
SPEAKER: "In order to avoid a fatal and bloody conflict, we propose an honorable program of discussion to the French authorities, on condition that they recognize the right of our people to self-government ." And the Algerians who work in the European city, the dockers, waiters, laborers, street-cleaners, farm-hands, and gardeners.
SPEAKER: "Algerians unite! Be ready for action! The National Liberation Front calls you to Unemployed, peddlers, beggars, shoeshine boys .
WOMAN: Look! Yes, that's him!
SIRENS: and also in front of him. Another two policemen; they too are running. There is an intersection. At the corner, a cafe.
SPEAKER: Omar Ali, known as "Ali la Pointe" born in Miliana, March 1, 1930. Education: Illiterate. Occupation: Manual laborer, farm hand, boxer, presently unemployed. Former convictions: 1942 Oran Juvenile Court, one year of reformatory school for acts of vandalism. 1944 Two years of reformatory school for theft. 1949 Court of Algiers, eight months for compulsory prostitution and resisting arrest. Habitual offender.
CONDEMNED MAN: Tahia el Djez-air! [Long live Algeria!] The political prisoners take up the phrase and recite it gutturally, keeping time to the steps of the condemned man.
POLITICAL PRISONERS: Tahia el Djez-air!
WOMEN: Ju-ju .
ALI: Go away!
PETIT OMAR: Men have two faces: one that laughs and one that cries .
ALI: And they sent you!
PETIT OMAR: Sure, something wrong with that?
PETIT OMAR: Take it. Everything's written here. He turns away and begins to run.
ALI: Omar stops running and turns to Ali.
ALI: Come here . Come.
ALI: ( in a brusque manner ) Can you read?
PETIT OMAR: Sure . Ali hands back the paper.
ALI: Read it.
PETIT OMAR: Ali turns and looks around him. He squats on his heels in order to reach Omar's height.
ALI: It is still drizzling. Omar unfolds the paper and begins to read it.
OMAR: ( off ) There is an Arab cafe at rue Random 40. The owner's name is Medjebri. He is a police informer .
OMAR: ( off ) Every day at 5 p.m., a French policeman goes to see him. He stops for a few minutes to get information with the excuse of drinking a cup of tea. You have to kill the policeman .
ALI: ( off ) Not Medjebri?
OMAR: ( off ) No. It says the policeman.
ALI: ( off ) Okay .
OMAR: ( off ) At the corner, right in front of the large clock, there will be a girl carrying a basket. When the policeman comes out, you will follow him together. At the right moment she will give you a pistol. You have only to shoot . quickly and in the back. Now the policeman has finished drinking his tea. He makes a sign to pay. Smiling, Medjebri refuses the money, and says good-bye. Ali approaches the girl. They exchange glances. The girl puts down her basket which is filled with corn, and rests it by her side. She moves slowly toward the cafe. Ali walks beside her.
ALI: Don't move! Look at him. You're not giving any orders now! Your hands are up, eh! Do you see him, brothers? Our masters aren't very special, are they?
ALI: ( in a whisper ) Bastard! . Bitch!
ALI: Tell me what this joke is all about.
DJAMILA: Let's move now or they'll catch us.
ALI: I want to know who sent me that letter. What's his name?
DJAMILA: He's waiting for you!
ALI: We're going there . if you don't get us arrested first. The girl nods toward the street where two policemen are passing by Ali moves backward into the shadow of the doorway. He regains control of his nerves, loosens his cloak, and lets it fall on the basket. He is dressed in European clothes, trousers and pullover.
DJAMILA: We're going there . if you don't get us arrested first. The girl nods toward the street where two policemen are passing by Ali moves backward into the shadow of the doorway. He regains control of his nerves, loosens his cloak, and lets it fall on the basket. He is dressed in European clothes, trousers and pullover.
ALI: ( pushing her ahead ) Move . go ahead. I'll follow you.
KADER: You could have been a spy. We had to put you to the test.
ALI: With an unloaded pistol?
KADER: I'll explain.
KADER: Let's suppose you were a spy. In prison, when the NLF contacts you, you pretend to support the revolution, and then the French help you to escape .
ALI: Sure. By shooting at me.
KADER: Even that could be a trick. You escape, then show up at the address which the brothers in prison gave to you, and so you are able to contact me .
ALI: I don't even know your name yet .
KADER: My name is Kader, Ali . Saari Kader . In other words, in order to join the organization, you had to undergo a test. I could have told you to murder the barman, but he's an Algerian . and the police would let you kill him, even though he is one of theirs. By obeying such an order, you still could have been a double agent. And that's why I told you to kill the French policeman: because the French wouldn't have let you do it. If you were with the police you wouldn't have done it.
ALI: But I haven't shot him.
KADER: ( smiling ) You weren't able to. But what's important is that you tried.
ALI: What's important for me is that you let me risk my life for nothing.
KADER: C'mon . you're exaggerating. The orders were to shoot him in the back.
ALI: I don't do that kind of thing.
KADER: Then don't complain.
ALI: You still haven't told me why you didn't let me kill him.
KADER: Because we aren't ready yet for the French. Before attacking, we must have safe places from which to depart and find refuge. Of course, there is the Casbah. But even the Casbah isn't safe yet. There are too many drunks, pushers, whores, addicts, spies . people who talk too much . people who are ready to sell themselves, undecided people. We must either convince them or eliminate them. We must think of ourselves first. We must clean out the Casbah first. Only then will we be able to deal with the French. Do you understand, Ali? Ali doesn't answer.
ALI: And how many are we?
KADER: Not enough.
SPEAKER: "National Liberation Front, bulletin number 24. Brothers of the Casbah! The colonial administration is responsible not only for our people's great misery, but also for the degrading vices of many of our brothers who have forgotten their own dignity ."
SPEAKER: "Corruption and brutality have always been the most dangerous weapons of colonialism. The National Liberation Front calls all the people to struggle for their own physical and moral redemption indispensable conditions for the reconquest of independence. Therefore beginning today, the clandestine authority of the NLF prohibits the following activities: gambling, the sale and usage of all types of drugs, the sale and usage of alcoholic beverages, prostitution and its solicitation. Transgressors will be punished. Habitual transgressors will be punished by death."
ALI: Wake up! Have you seen Hacene le Bonois?
ALI: Seen Hacene le Bonois?
ALI: Tell him I'm looking for him .
OFF LIMITS: Entrance to the brothel quarters. The street widens, the alleys branch off and seem to broaden. There are one or two Europeans, not only tourists in search of adventure, but also elements of the international criminal underworld who mingle here with the Algerians. Almost all the buildings house a brothel or other place of ill-repute. On some doorways signs are hanging which read:
MADAM: ( shouting ) Ali la Pointe!
MADAM: ( changing tone ) Haven't seen you around for some time. I thought you were still in prison.
ALI: Is Hacene le Bonois here?
MADAM: No. He left early this morning. You know how it is with the boss .
ALI: I want to see him. If he shows up, tell him that I'm around. Ali moves away from the counter and turns. He leaves without a word. The woman tries to understand what has happened, and follows him with a worried glance.
HACENE: Ali, my son . Where have you been Ali turns suddenly, then pulls back so that his back is against the wall of the alley.
ALI: ( in sharp voice ) Don't move! Then he glances at the others.
ALI: Hands still.
HACENE: ( astonished ) You know I never carry weapons . Ali keeps his arms and hands hidden under his djellabah.
ALI: I know.
HACENE: You afraid of these .?
ALI: Don't move, Hacene.
HACENE: Why are you afraid? We've always been friends. One might even say that I brought you up . Isn't it true, Ali?
ALI: It's true.
HACENE: What's happened to you?
ALI: The NLF has condemned you to death. Hacene is stunned. He speaks aloud his thoughts in a soft voice.
HACENE: Ah, so its come to this .
HACENE: I'm dying of laughter! Ha . ha . ha .
HACENE: How much are they paying you?
ALI: They're not paying me anything. They've already warned you twice; this is the last warning. Decide.
HACENE: What . What must I decide?
ALI: You've got to change occupations, Hacene. Right away! Hacene makes a gesture as if to emphasize what he is going to say.
HACENE: ( with irony ) Okay, you convince me.
ALI: ( shouting ) The barrel of the machine gun is visible through the opening in his djellabah. Ali's voice is quivering angrily:
ALI: Look at him well! Now nobody can do whatever he wants in the Casbah. Not even Hacene . least of all you three pieces of shit! Go away now . go away and spread the word . Go on!
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: ( on telephone ) Yes, sir, but they haven't received a search-warrant yet. Rue d'Isly? We followed them for a while, but then we lost track . Yes, sir, but it is in another precinct. No, it wasn't in theirs . There are some suspects for rue Marengo . No . the judge hasn't given permission yet. He is requesting a formal investigation first. Yes, sir, yes . Yes, sir, yes But we haven't enough men. Of course, I understand . If it were possible, sir, you should . but the Commissioner can't . in . But couldn't you . Alright, sir . We'll let them cut our throats then!
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: Time: 3 P.M. Attempt at homicide against a Patrol of the 3rd B.P.C. Place: Luciani street at El Biar. Weapon: Revolver 7.75. Victim: A soldier wounded in the right leg and groin. Hospitalized. Assailants: Unknown. . Time: 3:35 P.M. Homicide. Place: Chopin Street, opposite number 20. Weapon: P.M. 38. Victim: Private second-class Dare Jackie, born March 12, 1931. Deceased. Assailant: A moslem. Height: five feet and seven/eights inches. Light colored clothing. Probably escaped in Simca. License plates unknown. and attempt at homicide against patrol of border guards. Place: Intersection between Consular Street and General Laquiere . Wait a minute .
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: I want to see the newspapers tomorrow. If they're still talking about pacification of our Moslem brothers!
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: Where were we?
EMPLOYEE: Intersection, between Consular Street and General Laquiere Avenue .
SPEAKER: "Ordinance of the Prefecture of Algiers: All police stations in Algiers, without exception and until further notice, are required to prepare and maintain external protection devices. The shifting of guards outside must continue uninterrupted twenty-four hours a day. Sentinels must be equipped with automatic weapons ."
SPEAKER: "The Governor-General of Algiers decrees: Article No. 1 The sale of medicinal and pharmaceutical products, effective for the cures of gunshot wounds, can be made only to those who present written authorization from the Commissioner of Article No. 2 Directors of all hospitals and clinics must produce to the police authorities an immediate listing of all patients admitted to their institutions for the care and treatment of gunshot wounds."
SPEAKER: "The Prefecture of Algiers states: In the course of these last few days, dozens of assaults have been committed in this city. We have reason to believe that the assailants originate in the Casbah, and that they have always found a speedy and easy refuge in the alleys of the Arab quarters. As a result, and in order to alleviate without delay the insecurity that now reigns in the city, the Prefecture of Algiers has decided that entrance to the Casbah can only he permitted at those points in the blockade under military control, where citizens in transit must exhibit their documents at request, and submit to eventual searches."
OFFICER: Are you mad, touching one of their women? Go on, go on, alright . Go ahead, keep The woman passes the blockade, but still continues her protest with a shrill and unbearable voice.
OFFICER: What are you doing here? Where are you The boy shrugs his thin, shoulders and lowers his head.
BOY: ( in servile tone ) I'm going for a swim; my friends are waiting for me.
VARIED VOICES: Do you know he's dead, you bastard? Do you know you killed him? They try to reach him, pushing against one another in order to get closer and hit him. The Algerian is crying and speaks in broken-off phrases, half Arabic and half French. His continual efforts to repeat certain words are heard:
ALGERIAN: No, no, no, no, . me no . Viva France . An officer arrives making his way.
OFFICER: Get out, go on, outside . Get out of the way! Go away . They make way for him; he reaches the Algerian who tries to smile at him, continually shaking his head:
ALGERIAN: Sir . sir . sir .
OFFICER: What's your name?
ALGERIAN: Sir . sir . sir .
OFFICER: What's your name?
ALGERIAN: ( straining, still trying to swallow ) Lardjane Boualem, sir .
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: Guilty: Lardjane Boualem, manual worker, married with three children. Resident in rue de Thèbes, number eight . So? How many today? The employee removes the copies from the typewriter and begins to put them in order.
EMPLOYEE: Seven assaults, three dead.
EMPLOYEE: Here, one for the Commissioner . the press offices . the archives . and one for you, sir. The Assistant Commissioner signs.
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: Good, thank you, Corbiere. . See you Good evening, sir. The employee salutes, then moves toward the door. He is about to go out when the Assistant Commissioner stops him.
EMPLOYEE: Good evening, sir. The employee salutes, then moves toward the door. He is about to go out when the Assistant Commissioner stops him.
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: Tell me . Where is this rue de Thèbes?
EMPLOYEE: Rue de Thèbes? In the Upper Casbah, I think .
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: All right. See you tomorrow, Corbiere.
EMPLOYEE: Good evening, sir. The employee leaves and closes the door. The Assistant Commissioner crosses the room to the large map of Algiers which covers the entire wall. He moves his finger along the Casbah zone; as he moves it, he follows it with his glance in that tangle of streets.
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: ( to himself ) Rue de Thèbes . de Thèbes . He has found it. He observes it for a minute, then moves his finger along the road leading to the European quarters. He finds the right route, then concentrates in order to memorize it. He returns to the desk, lifts the receiver, and dials a number.
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: ( on the phone ) Hello, Engineer Henry Amaud, please . He's already left? Alright, yes, yes, alright . I have the number.
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: Hello, Bernadette.Yes, right away. I'm going to change my clothes first, and I'll be right there. My wife is already there, right? No, it's not important. But call Henry for me. Just for a minute . Alright . thanks .
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: Hello, Henry? . Everything's okay. Good. What are we going to tell our wives? The club? Good idea, yes. I'll be there right away. Just give me time to change my clothes . Ah, I've found the address. No, it's better to talk in person. Yes, it's the right place . Okay. Bye.
CHILDREN: Notre Père, dans le ciel . Two children, five or six years old, blond, charming, but not affected. They seem to be twins, and are wearing identical pajamas. At the same time, a servant is preparing their beds for the night. She is about fifty years old, her apron clean and ironed; she has gray hair, her face that of a good woman. She is Algerian. When the children falter in their prayers, she helps them. When they have finished she says with an Algerian accent:
SERVANT: Now, let's go to say good night.
BERNADETTE: Come here, children. Say hello .
CHILDREN: Good evening . The others smile. The servant accompanies the children to their Good night, daddy. Good night, mommy.
CHILDREN: Good night, daddy. Good night, mommy.
BERNADETTE: Good night, dear.
SOLDIER: Good evening . Arnaud responds in an innocent, cheerful tone:
ARNAUD: Good evening . Can we pass?
SOLDIER: It's too late. No one is allowed to enter the Casbah at this hour. It's impossible.
ARNAUD: But it's not even midnight yet!
SOLDIER: It's ten minutes past midnight. Curfew begins at midnight.
ARNAUD: Please, we just want to take a short ride. A friend of mine has never seen the I'm sorry. Tomorrow. Tonight is out of the question.
SOLDIER: I'm sorry. Tomorrow. Tonight is out of the question.
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: It's alright, they're with me. The soldier examines the card by the glare of the headlights, hands it back, and bringing his hand to his visor, he salutes.
SOLDIER: Okay, sir. Go ahead.
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: Let's go, Henry.
ARNAUD: ( he changes gears ) Thank you. Good evening. The soldier steps aside, and salutes again. The automobile begins to move, steadily increasing its speed.
ARNAUD: This way?
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: Yes, it's the first intersection . or the second.
ARNAUD: Right or left?
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: Try going to the right. The car turns right, moving slowly.
ARNAUD: What number is it?
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: The man next to the Assistant Commissioner says:
FRIEND: Let's park here. It doesn't matter.
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER: ( in sharp tone ) It does matter. Go back, Henry. Let's go to number eight.
ARNAUD: How long do you want the timing device?
FRIEND: Five minutes. Give me a match .
PETIT OMAR: ( shouting ) Kader says to stop them! He says we've got to stop them!
ALI: Where's Kader?
PETIT OMAR: With the others. They are trying to stop the people.
ALI: Go away. Their voices can hardly be heard or understood amid the loud noises.
PETIT OMAR: But he says that if we go on like this, we're playing their game, and they'll murder everyone . Stop, Ali!
HASSIBA: Ça va, monsieur?
KADER: ( to Djamila ) Number three rue de Chêne. ( to Zohra ) Number fourteen rue Monseigneur Leynaud. ( to Hassiba ) Number twenty-one rue de l'Hydre.
KADER: Ça va . Et bonnes chances!
HASSIBA: I've come to take the package .
ZOHRA: I've come to take the package .
SOLDIER: I'd like to search you, Miss . For an instant, Hassiba is dismayed; then, she glances down at her clinging shirt and pants.
HASSIBA: ( innocently ) The boy is young, handsome, and cheeky.
SOLDIER: Not here. There's too many people.
HASSIBA: But you don't understand. I was saying that there's nothing to search.
SOLDIER: That's what you think!
SECOND SOLDIER: Are you going for a swim, Miss . all by No, with some friends.
HASSIBA: No, with some friends.
SECOND SOLDIER: Lucky them. Next Sunday I'm free .. Shall we go together?
OFFICER: What's inside?
DJAMILA: There .
OFFICER: There .
DJAMILA: ( provocatively ) The officer signals her to pass.
ALGERIAN: May Allah protect you.
HASSIBA: I'm giving your seat back.
MAN: Are you already leaving, Miss? Hassiba smiles, nods yes.
HASSIBA: Good evening . The man sits down.
MAN: Good evening .
CHILD: Ice cream . The father and mother are watching him, delighted. The waiter smiles at the child and points to the cash register. He speaks to the child in the usual tone of a grownup when speaking to children:
WAITER: You have to go there first . and then come back to me. The second hand reaches twenty-five, then thirty. The child goes to the cashier and pays. The cashier smiles at him and gives him the check.
CASHIER: What a good boy . The child returns to the counter. The waiter has already prepared the ice cream for him, and hands it to him. The child is standing on 66 CAFETERIA MICHELET. EXPLOSION. INSIDE. DAY. The second hand, the explosion: bodies flung into the air, arms, legs, white smoke, screams.
COMMISSIONER: What time is it?
POLICEMAN: A quarter to seven.
COMMISSIONER: Go away, for God's sake!
YOUTH: Hey, little rat .
SPEAKER: "Following a lengthy discussion, the General Assembly of the United Nations has decided its agenda for the forthcoming ( 1 ) re-unification of Korea ( 2 ) disarmament ( 3 ) the Algerian question. Colombia has proposed that only the first two points be discussed for the day. However, the Afro-Asian nations opposed, underlining the importance they attribute to the Algerian question ."
SPEAKER: "Mr. Raymond Lefevre, Inspector General of the Administration, has presided over a meeting in which important decisions have been taken with the aim of securing public order and the protection of persons and their property. In particular, it has been decided to recall the 'Tenth' Division of paratroopers to Algiers that, until now, has been employed in the antiguerrilla operations on the Cabiro plateau. The Commander General of the Tenth Division will assume responsibility for the maintenance of order in Algiers, and will have at his disposal in order to achieve this goal, all civil and military means provided for the defense of the Massu and the authorities are standing on the balconies of the Prefecture building.
MATHIEU: 3rd Regiment! Attention à droite . Family name: Mathieu; Name: Philippe; Born in Rennes May 3, 1906; Rank: Lieutenant Colonel; Schooling: Politechnique-degree in Engineering; Campaigns: Second World War, Anti-Nazi Resistance Movement, Italian Campaign, Indochinese War, Algerian War .
SPEAKER: Family name: Mathieu; Name: Philippe; Born in Rennes May 3, 1906; Rank: Lieutenant Colonel; Schooling: Politechnique-degree in Engineering; Campaigns: Second World War, Anti-Nazi Resistance Movement, Italian Campaign, Indochinese War, Algerian War .
MATHIEU: The result is that in the last two months, they have reached an average of 4.2 assaults per day, including aggression against individuals, and the explosions. Of course, the conditions of the problem are as usual: first, the adversary; second, the method to destroy him . There are 80,000 Arabs in the Casbah. Are they all against us? We know they are not. In reality, it is only a small minority that dominates with terror and violence. This minority is our adversary and we must isolate and destroy it .
MATHIEU: Draw it down there too .
MATHIEU: He is an adversary who shifts his position above and below the surface with highly commendable revolutionary methods anonymous and unrecognizable enemy who mingles with thousands of others who resemble him. We find him everywhere: in the alleys of the Casbah; in the streets of the European city, and in working Mathieu interrupts himself again and makes a signal to the back of the room which is completely darkened.
MATHIEU: Go ahead, Martin. Martin turns on the projector. On the white wall next to the map and graph appear pictures of the Casbah. There are the blockades, the barbed wire, the metal screens, the Algerians who exit and enter, the policemen and soldiers who examine documents and frisk someone. From time to time, close-ups of the pictures are shown, enlarged to the minutest details, close-ups of faces, motionless images that last only for a few seconds.
MATHIEU: Here is some film taken by the police. The cameras were hidden at the Casbah exits. They thought these films might be useful, and in fact they are useful in demonstrating the usefulness of certain methods. Or, at least, their inadequacy. Hassiba is now seen and the soldiers who are wooing her, while she laughs, jokes, flirts in a provocative manner, and passes the blockade.
MATHIEU: I chose these films because they were shot in the hours preceding some recent terroristic assaults. And so, among all these Arabs, men and women, there are the ones responsible. But which ones are they? How can we recognize them? Controlling documents is ridiculous: one who has everything in order is most likely to be the terrorist. An Algerian is being dragged away while protesting, kicking, and trying to free himself. And then the scene changes. There is another Casbah exit, and an Algerian who is being searched.
MATHIEU: ( smiling ) Note the intuition of the cameraman. He realized that in that box, there had to be something of interest, and he paused to focus it.
MATHIEU: ( laughing ) Maybe the bomb was hidden right there, in a double bottom. Who knows? We'll never Using the barrel of his machine gun, a soldier has closed the box. A snake has managed to jump out, and fallen to the ground. The people are terrified and move away. Others laugh, among them, Petit Omar, who seems to be an ordinary child enjoying himself.
MATHIEU: That's enough, Martin . The lights are again switched on in the room. Mathieu is again next to the desk, and waits a second until the buzz of comments subsides.
MATHIEU: We must start again from scratch. The only information that we have concerns the structure of the organization. And we shall begin from that . He takes a wooden pointer from the desk in order to illustrate the graph, while he speaks with the tone and precision of a university It is a pyramid-like organization divided into a series of sectors. At the top of the pyramid is their General Staff. He has moved near the blackboard, and taken some chalk, and slowly as he speaks, he illustrates his speech.
MATHIEU: It is a pyramid-like organization divided into a series of sectors. At the top of the pyramid is their General Staff. He has moved near the blackboard, and taken some chalk, and slowly as he speaks, he illustrates his speech.
MATHIEU: The military commander responsible for the executive body finds the right man and nominates him to responsibility for a sector: number one. Number one in his turn, chooses another two: number two and number three . And so they form the first triangle. He has written high on the board a number one and below it, with some space between them, the numbers two and three. He unites the three numbers with lines and forms a triangle.
MATHIEU: Now number two and number three choose, in their turn, two men each . number four and five, and so on .
MATHIEU: The reason for this geometry is so that every militant will know only three members in the entire organization: his commander who has chosen him, and the two members that he himself has chosen . Contacts take place only by written instructions . That is why we do not know our adversaries: because, in practice, they do not even know each Mathieu leaves the blackboard and moves near the officers. The tone of his voice changes. The explanation is now finished. He gives directions .
MATHIEU: To know them means to eliminate them. Consequently, the military aspect is secondary to the police method. I know we only word that indicates exactly the type of work that we must perform. We must make the necessary investigations in order to proceed from one vertex to another in the entire pyramid. The reason for this work is information. The method is interrogation. And interrogation becomes a method when conducted in a manner so as to always obtain a result, or rather, an answer. In practice, demonstrating a false humanitarianism only leads to the ridiculous and to impotence. I am certain that all the units will understand and react accordingly. However, success does not depend solely on us. We need to have the Casbah at our disposal. We must sift through it . and interrogate everyone. And here is where we find ourselves hindered by a conspiracy of laws and regulations that continue to be operative, as if Algiers were a holiday resort and not a battleground. We have requested a carte blanche. But it is very difficult to obtain. Therefore, it is necessary to find an excuse to legitimize our intervention, and make it possible. It is necessary to create it ourselves this excuse. Unless our adversaries will think of it themselves, which seems to be what they are doing.
SPEAKER: "To all militants! After two years of hard struggle in the mountains and city, the Algerian people have obtained a great victory. The UN Assembly has placed the Algerian question in its forthcoming agenda. The discussion will begin on Monday, January 28. Starting Monday, for a duration of eight days, the NLF is calling a general strike. For the duration of this period, all forms of armed action or attempts at such are suspended. We are requesting that all militants mobilize for the strike's organization and success."
SPEAKER: "Algerian brothers! A great hope has arisen for us. The world is watching us. The next few days may be decisive for our future and our freedom. The colonial powers will attempt to demonstrate to the UN that the NFL does not represent the will of our people. Our response will be unanimous support of the general strike."
NEWSBOY: Le Monde! Le Monde! General strike! . Some Europeans buy the newspaper, half-heartedly, grumbling disagreeably. The boy remains cheerful, places the change inside the bag strapped to his shoulder, thanks them.
NEWSBOY: "During the eight days of the strike, do not frequent the European city, or leave the Casbah. Provide lodgings in your homes for the poor, the beggars, the brothers who do not have homes. Store provisions of food and water for eight 80 CASBAH STREETS AND SHOPS. INSIDE/OUTSIDE. DAY. There is a strange atmosphere in the Casbah. People are greeting each other in the streets; a thick buzz of voices, a festive mood, a sense of brotherhood, and the children, who are taking advantage of the situation and play and run everywhere. The shops are unusually crowded. The people enter and exit, loaded with supplies. In the shops too, there is the same festive mood, almost as if the supplies were for a trip to the country. The shopkeepers are also cheerful.
SPEAKER: "During the eight days of the strike, do not frequent the European city, or leave the Casbah. Provide lodgings in your homes for the poor, the beggars, the brothers who do not have homes. Store provisions of food and water for eight 80 CASBAH STREETS AND SHOPS. INSIDE/OUTSIDE. DAY. There is a strange atmosphere in the Casbah. People are greeting each other in the streets; a thick buzz of voices, a festive mood, a sense of brotherhood, and the children, who are taking advantage of the situation and play and run everywhere. The shops are unusually crowded. The people enter and exit, loaded with supplies. In the shops too, there is the same festive mood, almost as if the supplies were for a trip to the country. The shopkeepers are also cheerful.
MATHIEU: No one is leaving, eh? The officer hands him the binoculars.
OFFICER: No. They continue to enter, the rats.
MATHIEU: Rats in a trap, we hope .
OFFICER: But do you believe that the strike will be widespread?
MATHIEU: Without a doubt.
GENERAL: Mathieu! Mathieu, a name .
MATHIEU: A name?
GENERAL: Yes, a name for the operation.
MATHIEU: Champagne . All right? The general repeats absent-mindedly:
GENERAL: Champagne . Champagne. Operation Champagne, yes, alright.
POLICEMAN: Go on! Go on!
KADER: ( to him ) They are beggars and unemployed, homeless. We have organized things in such a way that during the strike they will be guests of other families who have homes and will provide shelter in the event of possible reprisals . But I didn't know that they would be brought to this house too. It is a mistake.
BEN M'HIDI: Because you are here too. It would be better for you to move to another house.
KADER: Because you are here too. It would be better for you to move to another house.
BEN M'HIDI: All right . You're the one who must Kader follows him along the terrace.
KADER: No, if I were the one to decide, you wouldn't be in Algiers now.
BEN M'HIDI: Why? Isn't it wise?
KADER: It isn't wise.
KADER: Ali, you must accompany Ben M'Hidi to the Maison des Arbres.
ALI: Why? Isn't he sleeping here?
KADER: No, it's better if he doesn't. The house is filled with new people.
ALI: Here's another one ready. What a hideout! It really looks like a wall. I'll dirty it a bit, and it's perfect. Want to give a look inside?
KADER: No, go now. It's already late. They go out on the terrace. Ali releases the catch of his machine gun so that the bullet slips into the barrel.
KADER: ( to Ben M'Hidi ) They are a family of militants from way back. Everything will work out well, you'll see . C'mon, Ali, hurry up.
BEN M'HIDI: Alright. See you tomorrow. They say good-bye, embracing one another. Ali has already climbed over the terrace wall, and has jumped to the next one. Ben M'Hidi follows him; he is less agile and moves with a bit of From the parapet, Kader says to him:
KADER: Passing along the terraces only takes five minutes . and with Ali la Pointe, you'll be safe . While jumping, Ben M'Hidi loses his balance, and has to grab on to Ali to prevent himself from falling.
BEN M'HIDI: But it's he who won't be safe with me . The two figures move away from terrace to terrace, and disappear in the 86 CASBAH VIEWS AND TERRACES. OUTSIDE. NIGHT. In the dark in front of them, a metallic reflection is visible and the sharp and aggressive sound of an Algerian voice is heard. Ali responds to the password.
ALI: Here it is . we've arrived . Ben M'Hidi glances at the emptiness beneath them, looks at Ali, and takes a deep breath.
BEN M'HIDI: Not yet . Ali has climbed onto the parapet, looks around him concentrating attentively for a moment, and then jumps into the void, reaching the opposite side. He bends, searches for something in the dark, and lifts a type of gangplank.
ALI: Be careful now. Unless you know how it works, it's better if you sit on the plank and move forward like this .
BEN M'HIDI: Let's try . He tries to stand up on the gangplank, but he lacks the necessary steadiness. He can't hold his balance. He does as Ali has advised him; he sits astride on the plank, and using the force of his arms, he pushes himself forward. He stops halfway to rest for a minute.
BEN M'HIDI: It's good nobody is following us .
ALI: It's a question of habit . And when Ben M'Hidi is closer, Ali helps him to get down to the terrace.
ALI: It's better if I go first, to make sure everything's okay . Without waiting for an answer, he moves toward the stairway that leads to the floor below; his movements are silent and graceful. Ben M'Hidi leans out from the terrace, and looks toward the European city and the sea. At the port, two searchlights are lit, and their long bright rays move slowly toward the Casbah . When Ali la Pointe returns, Ben M'Hidi is still leaning on the railing. He seems not to hear the sound of Ali's footsteps, or his voice.
ALI: Everything's okay . They're waiting for you . Ali moves near him, and Ben M'Hidi turns and looks at him.
BEN M'HIDI: What do you think of the strike, Ali?
ALI: I think it'll be a success .
BEN M'HIDI: Yes, I think so too . It's been organized well . But what will the French do?
ALI: ( shrugging ) It's clear. They'll do everything possible to make it fail.
BEN M'HIDI: No, they'll do even more. We've given them the opportunity to do a lot more . Do you understand what I mean? Starting tomorrow, they won't be groping in the dark any more; every shop and every worker who strikes will be a known enemy, a self-confessed criminal . And they will be able to pass to the offensive. Have you thought of this?
ALI: ( shaking his head ) No .
BEN M'HIDI: But Kader told me that you weren't in favor of the strike.
ALI: No, and neither were my men.
BEN M'HIDI: Because they told us that we mustn't use weapons, now, when the time is right.
ALI: Because they told us that we mustn't use weapons, now, when the time is right.
BEN M'HIDI: That's true . Wars aren't won with terrorism, neither wars nor revolutions. Terrorism is a beginning but afterward, all the people must act . This is the reason for the strike, and its necessity: to mobilize all Algerians, count them and measure their strength .
ALI: To show them to the UN, right?
BEN M'HIDI: ( smiling slightly ) Yes . yes. The problem also involves the UN. I don't know what it's worth, but this way, we'll give the UN the possibility of evaluating our strength. Ali breathes deeply, instinctively, unrestrainedly, Ben M'Hidi watches him, smiles, and says:
BEN M'HIDI: Do you know something Ali? Starting a revolution is hard, and it's even harder to continue it. Winning is hardest of all. But only afterward, when we have won, will the real hardships begin.
BEN M'HIDI: Anyway, there's still a lot to be done . you aren't already tired, Ali, are Ali looks at him, and without reacting to his irony:
ALI: ( with conviction ) 88 VARIOUS HOUSES. CASBAH. OUTSIDE. DAWN. JANUARY 28, 1957. It is gray and smoky dawn, a slow reabsorption of the night, an opaque light which is diffused, sprayed, frozen, to transparency, and rediscovers its outlines and perspectives; and finally, the sun, golden light, awakens all Algiers. To the north, the sea. To the south, the mountains and the Casbah, situated halfway along the coast. The Casbah, still, inert, expectant, on this first day of the strike . The paratroopers are already at their places, one after another, at equal distances like links of a very long chain, strung through every alley, spreading to every sidestreet, twisting through the squares, climbing up the stairways, dividing, joining, and lengthening again. The silence is perfect; the camouflaged immobile forms seem to be part of the landscape. Then a brief and sharp hiss, a hundred whistles together. A signal releases the still forms: the attack begins. Doors are beaten down, shots, screams, rifle fire, machine gun fire; the doors opened or broken down; the courtyards, the houses, the rooms, invaded; the men who are trying to escape and who protest and try to save themselves.
VOICES: Of course . I was just going to work .
SOLDIERS: Go on, go on, you little rats! Get to 90 CASBAH. STREETS. OUTSIDE. MORNING. Women are clinging together after the beatings. Someone is fleeing toward the terraces. We hear the deafening whirl of the helicopters flying against the wind, their cabin doors open, paras sitting on both sides with their legs dangling out, their machine guns on their knees, a loudspeaker for every helicopter, microphones turned on in such a way that the din of the motors is multiplied a hundred The helicopters fly low again, they skirt the terraces. The Algerians are fleeing in terror, the uproar begins to fade away, is less intense; microphones are turned on, and off. The terraces are emptied, men seized, beaten, dragged; all the men are forced outside in the alleys, the streets, the squares, every man is forced to face the wall, his hands up.
PARA: And the strike, my friend?
LOUDSPEAKER: "Attention, people of the Casbah! The NLF wants to stop you from working. The NLF forces you to close your shops. Inhabitants of the Casbah, rebel against their orders. France is your country. France has given you civilization and prosperity: schools, streets, hospitals. People of the Casbah, show your love for your mother country, by disobeying the terrorists' orders. Algerians, return to And then Algerian music, a cheerful and rhythmical melody; the Algerians are forced out of the Casbah in columns, and are pushed toward the military trucks which clutter the southern side of the square, and continue to arrive and depart.
PARA'S VOICES: Who are you? What's your name? Occupation? Where do you work? Why did you strike? truth! You promised them, right? Then you're the one who wants to strike. Do you belong to the NLF? C'mon, answer me! Are you afraid to say it? Never mind, it doesn't matter.
PARA: Jacques! . Jacques! . Another one to The Algerian is seized, and pushed toward the truck.
LOUDSPEAKER: "Attention, Algerians! The NLF wants to stop you from working. The NLF forces you to close your shops. The NLF wants to starve you and condemn you to misery. Algerians, return to work . !"
PARAS: ( yelling ) Sweep, mes enfants, sweep. An Algerian with a very refined expression, a gentle appearance, says, while excusing himself:
ALGERIAN: I don't know how, sir, I'm sorry . They shove the broom into his hands, and shout to him:
PARA: "French citizens! Europeans of Algiers! The strike called by the NLF is a failure. Do not be afraid. Return to your jobs. General Massu guarantees your safety. The Army will protect you!"
LOUDSPEAKER: "French citizens! Europeans of Algiers! The strike called by the NLF is a failure. Do not be afraid. Return to your jobs. General Massu guarantees your safety. The Army will protect you!"
A JOURNALIST: We are now in the fourth day and the strike continues, with total support by the Arab population. The city is very calm. However Calm . Are you deaf? The city is peaceful. In the Moslem quarters, in the outskirts of the city, in the Casbah . Bye, will call again, I'm busy.
JOURNALISTS: Colonel, colonel . Excuse me, colonel, a statement . We don't know anything . You promised us a press conference . Now there is a meeting with the Will you tell us what is happening?
FIRST JOURNALIST: Will you tell us what is happening?
MATHIEU: Nothing. Absolutely nothing. We are still weighing the situation. They move to the landing and begin to ascend the stairway that leads to the second floor. The journalists have difficulty keeping up with Look around. I've put everything at your disposal. Go take a look with your own The strike is a success; but .
MATHIEU: Look around. I've put everything at your disposal. Go take a look with your own The strike is a success; but .
2ND JOURNALIST: The strike is a success; but .
MATHIEU: No. It has failed in its objective.
1ST JOURNALIST: 2ND JOURNALIST But the NLF has always spoken of a strike as a demonstration .
MATHIEU: 2ND JOURNALIST But the NLF has always spoken of a strike as a demonstration .
2ND JOURNALIST: But the NLF has always spoken of a strike as a demonstration .
MATHIEU: And you believe the NLF?
2ND JOURNALIST: They seemed to be plausible this time. A general strike is a good argument for the
MATHIEU: The UN is far away, dear sir. It is easier to make oneself heard with bombs. If I were in their place, I would use bombs.
1ST JOURNALIST: Armed insurrection . but what is it It is an armed insurrection . They have arrived at the second-floor landing, hurry along, and stop in front of a large door, where there is a written sign: PREFECT. Mathieu, at the same time, has continued speaking.
OFFICER: It is an armed insurrection . They have arrived at the second-floor landing, hurry along, and stop in front of a large door, where there is a written sign: PREFECT. Mathieu, at the same time, has continued speaking.
MATHIEU: It is an inevitable stage in revolutionary war; from terrorism, one passes to insurrection . as from open guerrilla warfare one passes to real war, the latter being the determining factor .
3RD JOURNALIST: Dien Bien Phu?
MATHIEU: Mathieu glances at the journalist, as if to see if there were any irony in his remark, but the journalist's face is expressionless.
MATHIEU: In Indochina,
3RD JOURNALIST: And here?
MATHIEU: It depends on you.
4TH JOURNALIST: On us? You aren't thinking of drafting us by any chance, are you, colonel? Mathieu leans his hand on the door handle and smiles at the No! We have enough fighters. You have only to write, and well, if possible.
MATHIEU: No! We have enough fighters. You have only to write, and well, if possible.
1ST JOURNALIST: What's the problem then?
MATHIEU: Political support. Sometimes it's there, sometimes not . sometimes, it's not enough. What were they saying in Paris Nothing . Sartre has written another article . Mathieu gestures and makes an expression as if to say: "see what I mean?" At the same time, he opens the door. But before entering, he turns again to the journalists.
5TH JOURNALIST: Nothing . Sartre has written another article . Mathieu gestures and makes an expression as if to say: "see what I mean?" At the same time, he opens the door. But before entering, he turns again to the journalists.
MATHIEU: Will you kindly explain to me why all the Sartres are always born on the other side?
5TH JOURNALIST: Then you like Sartre, colonel .
MATHIEU: Not really, but he's even less appealing as an enemy.
LOUDSPEAKER: "The NLF wants to stop you from working. The NLF forces you to close your shops, inhabitants of the Casbah, disobey their orders. France has given you civilization and prosperity: schools, streets, hospitals. People of the Casbah! Show your love for your mother country by disobeying the terrorists' orders."
LOUDSPEAKER: "Algerians! Brothers! Do not be afraid! Algeria will be free. Be courageous, brothers! Resist! Do not listen to what they are telling you . Algeria will be free ."
LOUDSPEAKER: The voice is no longer heard, nothing more, silence. Silence, only that something is changed in the women's eyes. The veils that cover the lower half of their faces suddenly begin to tremble, sway as if shaken by a breath, a light wind. There is no longer an atmosphere of sadness, or silence.
PARA: One, two, three, four . Inside! C'mon!
1ST PARA: ( turning to other para ) What are they doing?
2ND PARA: ( smiling ) Dancing inside .
SERGEANT: Go ahead! C'mon . Repeat everything from the beginning, and then we'll let you go. Name .
ALGERIAN: Sid Ahmed.
SERGEANT: Second name.
ALGERIAN: Which "district" do you belong to?
SERGEANT: Which "district" do you belong to?
ALGERIAN: Second district .
SERGEANT: Second district . Explain better .
ALGERIAN: Second district, Casbah, West Algiers.
SERGEANT: What "group"?
ALGERIAN: Third group.
SERGEANT: Third group. What's your assignment?
ALGERIAN: Uh . responsible for the sixth section.
ALGERIAN VOICE: Who is it?
PARA: Sid Ahmed . Sid Ahmed Sail.
SPEAKER: "At the General Assembly of the United Nations, none of the motions presented in the course of the debate has obtained the necessary majority. At last an agreement has been reached on a resolution that excludes any form of direct intervention by the UN in the Algerian question. The Assembly of the United Nations has limited itself to expressing the hope that in a spirit of cooperation, a peaceful, democratic, and just solution will be found, that conforms to the principles of the United Nations Charter ."
MATHIEU: Good . Good work . Now we can all go to sleep. And moving together with the others, he continues.
MATHIEU: The end of the strike doesn't change anything. The directives remain the same. Give your men the usual shifts. We must remain in the Casbah: twenty-four hours a He turns and points to the graph.
MATHIEU: We must cling to it, and work fast! Then he turns to the officers and smiling, says in another tone of Have any of you ever had a tapeworm?
MATHIEU: Have any of you ever had a tapeworm?
MATHIEU: The tapeworm is a worm that can grow to infinity. There are thousands of segments. You can destroy all of them; but as long as the head remains, it reproduces itself immediately. It is the same thing with the NLF. The head is the General Staff, four persons. Until we are able to eliminate them, we must always start again from the While he is speaking, Mathieu takes his wallet from his back pocket, opens it, takes out four photos.
MATHIEU: I found these in the police archives. They are old shots, but I made some close-ups. Ramel . Si Mourad . Kader . Ali la Pointe. We must print a thousand copies and distribute them to the men.
DJAMILA: You can come out. Thank God. There were so many this time, about ten. Ali recloses the hiding place.
KADER: What do you think? Did they come here on purpose or by accident?
DJAMILA: What do you think? Did they come here on purpose or by accident?
KADER: What do you think? Did they come here on purpose or by accident?
DJAMILA: No. By accident. They asked some questions, but they didn't touch anyone.
LOUDSPEAKER: "Attention! Attention! Inhabitants of the Casbah! The terrorist Ben Amin has been executed this morning. Qrara Normendine has been arrested. Boussalem Ali has been arrested. Bel Kasel Maussa has been arrested. Inhabitants of the Casbah! The NFL has been defeated. Rebel against the remaining terrorists who want to force you to continue a bloody and futile struggle. People of the Casbah, the terrorist Ben Amin has been executed. Help us to build a free and peaceful Algeria. Inhabitants of the Casbah, the NLF has been defeated. Rebel against the remaining terrorists who want to force you to continue a bloody and futile struggle. Attention! Attention! Inhabitants of the Casbah! The terrorist Ben Amin has been executed this morning. Qrara Normendine has been arrested. Boussalem Ali has been arrested. Bel Kasem Moussa has been arrested. Inhabitants of the Casbah the NLF has been defeated ."
KADER: It's better to split up, to increase our chances. We must change hiding places, and change them continually . In the meantime, we must make new contacts, replace our arrested brothers, reorganize our sections
ALI: ( interrupting him ) Yes, but we must also show them that we still exist.
KADER: Of course. As soon as possible.
ALI: No, immediately. The people are demoralized. Leave this to me .
KADER: No. Not you, or any one of us. As long as we are free, the NLF continues to exist in the Casbah. If they manage to take us too, there won't be anything left . And from nothing comes nothing .
RAMEL: ( intervening ) But it's also necessary to do something .
KADER: And we will do something, don't worry. As soon as we have reestablished contacts .
MOURAD: And our movements?
KADER: For this too we've got to change methods.
1ST JOURNALIST: Mr. Ben M'Hidi . Don't you think it is a bit cowardly to use your women's baskets and handbags to carry explosive devices that kill so many innocent people?
BEN M'HIDI: And doesn't it seem to you even more cowardly to drop napalm bombs on unarmed villages, so that there are a thousand times more innocent victims? Of course, if we had your airplanes it would be a lot easier for us. Give us your bombers, and you can have our baskets.
2ND JOURNALIST: Mr. Ben M'Hidi . in your opinion, has the NLF any chance to beat the French In my opinion, the NLF has more chances of beating the French army than the French have to stop history. The press hall in the prefect's office is crowded with journalists of every nationality. At the side and central aisles there are photographers and cameramen.
BEN M'HIDI: In my opinion, the NLF has more chances of beating the French army than the French have to stop history. The press hall in the prefect's office is crowded with journalists of every nationality. At the side and central aisles there are photographers and cameramen.
3RD JOURNALIST: Mr. Ben M'Hidi, Colonel Mathieu has said that you have been arrested by accident, practically by mistake. In fact, it seems that the paratroopers were looking for someone much less important than yourself. Can you tell us why you were in that apartment at rue Debussy last night?
BEN M'HIDI: I can only tell you that it would have been better if I had never been there .
MATHIEU: ( intervening ) That's enough, gentlemen. It's late, and we all have a lot of work .
BEN M'HIDI: Is the show already over?
MATHIEU: ( smiling ) Yes, it's over . before it becomes The paras lead Ben M'Hidi away. He moves away with short steps, as much as he can with the irons that are tightened around his ankles. Mathieu has turned to the journalists and smiles again.
1ST JOURNALIST: Colonel Mathieu . the spokesman for the residing minister, Mr. Gorlin, has stated that "Larbi Ben M'Hidi committed suicide in his own cell, hanging himself with pieces of his shirt, that he had used to make a rope, and then attached to the bars of his cell window." In a preceding statement, the same spokesman had specified that: ". due to the intention already expressed by the prisoner Ben M'Hidi to escape at the first opportunity, it has been necessary to keep his hands and feet bound continually." In your opinion, colonel, in such conditions, is a man capable of tearing his shirt, making a rope from it, and attaching it to a bar of the window to hang himself?
MATHIEU: You should address that question to the minister's spokesman. I'm not the one who made those statements . On my part, I will say that I had the opportunity to admire the moral strength, intelligence, and unwavering idealism demonstrated by Ben M'Hidi. For these reasons, although remembering the danger he represented, I do not hesitate to pay homage to his Colonel Mathieu . Much has been said lately not only of the successes obtained by the paratroopers, but also of the methods that they have employed . Can you tell us something about this?
2ND JOURNALIST: Colonel Mathieu . Much has been said lately not only of the successes obtained by the paratroopers, but also of the methods that they have employed . Can you tell us something about this?
MATHIEU: The successes obtained are the results of those methods. One presupposes the other and vice versa.
3RD JOURNALIST: Excuse me, colonel. I have the impression that perhaps due to excessive prudence . my colleagues continue to ask the same allusive questions, to which you can only respond in an allusive manner. I think it would be better to call things by their right names; if one means torture, then one should call it torture.
MATHIEU: I understand. What's your question?
3RD JOURNALIST: The questions have already been asked. I would only like some precise answers, that's all .
MATHIEU: Let's try to be precise then. The word "torture" does not appear in our orders. We have always spoken of interrogation as the only valid method in a police operation directed against unknown enemies. As for the NLF, they request that their members, in the event of capture, should maintain silence for twenty-four hours, and then, they may talk. Thus, the organization has already any information furnished . What type of interrogation should we choose? . the one the courts use for a crime of homicide which drags on for months?
3RD JOURNALIST: The law is often inconvenient, colonel .
MATHIEU: And those who explode bombs in public places, do they perhaps respect the law? When you asked that question to Ben M'Hidi, remember what he said? No, gentlemen, believe me, it is a vicious circle. And we could discuss the problem for hours without reaching any conclusions. Because the problem does not lie here. The problem is: the NLF wants us to leave Algeria and we want to remain. Now, it seems to me that, despite varying shades of opinion, you all agree that we must remain. When the rebellion first began, there were not even shades of opinion. All the newspapers, even the left-wing ones wanted the rebellion suppressed. And we were sent here for this very reason. And we are neither madmen nor sadists, gentlemen. Those who call us fascists today, forget the contribution that many of us made to the Resistance. Those who call us Nazis, do not know that among us there are survivors of Dachau and Buchenwald. We are soldiers and our only duty is to win. Therefore, to be precise, I would now like to ask you a question: Should France remain in Algeria? If you answer "yes," then you must accept all the necessary consequences.
LOUDSPEAKER: "Inhabitants of the Casbah! The rebellion gets weaker every day. The terrorist Ben Amin has been executed. Kasem Moussa has been arrested. He was commander of the 2nd Sector NLF. Inhabitants of the Casbah! The terrorists are not your true brothers. Leave them to their fate. Rely on the protection of the French army. Denounce the terrorists and agitators. Cooperate with us to reestablish peace and prosperity in Algeria ."
SPEAKER: "To all NLF militants! Reorganize! Replace your fallen and arrested brothers. Make new contacts! This is a grave moment. Resist brothers! The General Staff leaves you free to take any and all necessary offensives .
PARAS: Is this one?
SPEAKER: "Our hearts are breaking before such outrages, our houses invaded, our families massacred. Brothers, rebel! Bring terror to the European city!"
MATHIEU: Now is not the time for heroes. Give me the megaphone. Mathieu takes the megaphone in his hands and approaches an open door. Through the doorway the inner courtyard of the house is visible where the corpses of four paras are strewn about.
MATHIEU: Ramel . Si Mourad . use your heads. If you go on like this, I wouldn't want to be in your place when you are captured . Because you will be captured in the end, and you know it too. Surrender! If you do it immediately, I promise that you will not be harmed and you will have a fair trial. Can you hear me?
MOURAD: Who is speaking?
MATHIEU: Mathieu. Colonel Mathieu.
MOURAD: We don't trust you, colonel. Come forward, show yourself.
MATHIEU: I don't trust you either. First stand up so I can see you, and keep your hands still and well in sight. Mourad hesitates an instant, glances at Ramel, then:
MOURAD: Okay. But we want your promise for a fair trial in writing. Give us a written statement, Mathieu, and then we'll How can I give you this statement?
MATHIEU: How can I give you this statement?
MOURAD: We'll lower a basket from the window .
MATHIEU: Okay, I'll make the statement in writing . Mourad shows his companion the two large time-bombs that are on the floor in front of him. He takes one, begins to prepare it, and regulates the mechanism. At the same time, he tells Ramel in Arabic to go find the basket.
MOURAD: ( without turning around ) A newspaper too, or a piece of paper .
MOURAD: ( loudly ) Are you ready, colonel?
MATHIEU: Yes . But let me first see you. Mourad moves one of the clock hands to precede the other one by a minute. Immediately afterward he places the flat and rectangular bomb in the bottom of the basket.
PARA: We see them. You can come.
MOURAD: ( counting )
MATHIEU: Here it is . you know that when I give my word, I keep it .
MATHIEU: You go . Mourad's face has remained motionless. In his expression there is a shade of disappointment. He sees Mathieu retrace his steps toward the door, and is now surrounded by a group of paratroopers .
MOURAD: ( counting )
PARA: ( muttering ) Hurry up, black bastard!
MATHIEU: Which one of you is Fathia? A woman about forty years old raises her eyes toward him.
MATHIEU: Is it you? The woman nods yes.
MATHIEU: Go up the stairs, and tell Kader that if they don't surrender, we'll blow up everything . Do you understand? The woman again nods yes, and without waiting for more words, she moves toward the door, taciturn, silent. Mathieu follows her, he pushes past Try to convince him, if you care about your house . Wait a minute . Do you want to get killed? He leans out the door and says loudly:
MATHIEU: Try to convince him, if you care about your house . Wait a minute . Do you want to get killed? He leans out the door and says loudly:
MATHIEU: Kader, look. Fathia is coming . I wouldn't shoot .
MATHIEU: Go on .
KADER: Okay . You can tell the colonel to blow up whatever he likes. Go on, now.
FATHIA: ( to Mathieu ) He said that you can blow up whatever you like . She, then, rejoins the other women. Mathieu seems to be tired, he has lost weight, he is nervous. He turns to his men, and slowly as he gives the orders, the paras begin to move.
MATHIEU: Return to where the others are. Prepare the plastic. It should be placed on the ceiling of the stairway under the hiding place . a long fuse rolled up . Take cover . keep shooting while you are working. Quickly! Clear the house . Bring them outside, then check the rooms again . Hurry up!
KADER: It doesn't do any good to die like this . it doesn't help anybody . He leans out from the hiding place.
KADER: ( shouting ) Mathieu! If you give your word that you won't touch any of the other people in the house, we'll come out.
MATHIEU: If you had let me blow you up, you would have disappointed me . Kader turns to him, and replies, trying to maintain his own voice at the same level of indifference:
KADER: For many months, I've had your photo on my desk together with a dozen or so reports on you . And naturally, I am under the illusion that I know you somewhat. You never seemed the type, Kader, inclined to performing useless Kader doesn't answer right away, then speaks slowly as if expressing the results of his doubts, a new point of view .
MATHIEU: For many months, I've had your photo on my desk together with a dozen or so reports on you . And naturally, I am under the illusion that I know you somewhat. You never seemed the type, Kader, inclined to performing useless Kader doesn't answer right away, then speaks slowly as if expressing the results of his doubts, a new point of view .
KADER: You seem to be very satisfied to have taken me alive .
MATHIEU: Of course I am.
KADER: That proves that I was wrong. Evidently I credited you with an advantage greater than I should have.
MATHIEU: No. Let's just say that you've given me the satisfaction to have guessed correctly. But from the technical point of view, it isn't possible to speak of advantages. By now the game is over. The NLF has been defeated. Zohra has turned around suddenly. She is crying and speaks hastily in Arabic, violently, harshly. Mathieu doesn't understand, and turns to Kader to ask him politely, although with a bit of irony:
MATHIEU: What is she saying?
KADER: She says that Ali is still in the Casbah.
SADEK: Then the beach is okay, Ali. Silence. Sadek looks at him again, waiting, but Ali does not respond. Ali looks straight ahead at the street bathed in sunlight, the tar that seems to be liquid, the villas that surround Algiers, the lemon trees, the oleanders . Then he speaks, but without turning to Sadek. He speaks in a whisper, his eyes continually staring straight ahead.
ALI: We need two more, the biggest ones.
SADEK: And the others?
ALI: The others . let's wait and see. Sadek remains silent for a while.
SADEK: I've looked, Ali, even where I work. Nothing. The ones who have not been arrested have left Algiers and gone into the mountains . And the others don't want to hear any more about it . they're afraid .
ALI: Can't you go any faster?
SADEK: Yes, sure . here. Sadek puts the truck in third gear, accelerates the motor, then shifts back again into fourth gear. The truck increases its speed. The road is straight, the outskirts of Algiers are visible.
SADEK: If we don't find any others . should we call it off? Ali turns suddenly to look at him but says nothing. Sadek can feel those eyes on him, and tries to justify himself.
SADEK: We can't plant all of them by ourselves . Ali speaks to him in a dry and indifferent voice.
ALI: You don't have to plant anything. You only have to carry them, that's all.
ALI: ( turning to Petit Omar ) C'mon, hurry. Go to sleep. Tomorrow we four have a lot of work to do: Mahmoud, Hassiba, you and I.
ALI: Because we can't find anyone else, Sadek will bring us there in the truck. You get out first and plant the bomb where I tell you . then return here quickly. But be careful that no one is following you. Then Hassiba will get out, and after her, Mahmoud. Then I will plant the ones that are left. They'll know that we're still strong . you can be sure of that.
ALI: Omar, Omar. C'mon, wake up. Hurry, little one. Today you're going to see fireworks. The child also smiles and his face relaxes, then brightens up. At the same time, he extends his hand and pats Ali's side. Mahmoud enters the room from the balcony. He is carrying a tray with four cups of coffee.
MAHMOUD: It's almost time, isn't it?
ALI: Then Ali turns to the curtain and calls:
ALI: Hassiba .
HASSIBA: I'm ready.
MAHMOUD: I heard the sound of a truck before .
ALI: Me too. But I don't think it was Sadek. Otherwise he'd be here by now. Hassiba is dressed in European clothes, a skirt and blouse. She nears the table and takes a cup of coffee.
HASSIBA: ( smiling ) How is your wife now?
MAHMOUD: So-so . Ali has finished putting on his shoes. He takes a cup of coffee. In the same moment, outside the door is heard:
ALI: ( shouting ) Inside! Inside!
CAPTAIN: ( mumbling softly ) The Algerian nods yes. They enter.
MATHIEU: ( to the captain ) Everything ready?
CAPTAIN: Yes, sir.
MATHIEU: He hasn't answered?
CAPTAIN: No, sir. Total silence.
MATHIEU: I thought so. It was obvious.
MATHIEU: ( loudly and markedly ) Ali . Ali la Pointe . You're going to be blown up. Let the others come out, at least the child. We'll let him off with reformatory school . Why do you want to make him die? Mathieu stops, and shakes his head. He turns to the captain:
MATHIEU: Let's go . A paratrooper is unrolling a large bundle of fuse.
CAPTAIN: Bring it down there, till it reaches outside .
PARA: Yes, sir . Mathieu has stopped in front of Sadek. He looks at him.
MATHIEU: Is this one still here? . Take him away. Two paratroopers grab the street cleaner by the armpits and almost lifting him completely, they lead him away. Mathieu is about to go out, then turns and takes the megaphone from the captain's hands, and places it to his mouth.
MATHIEU: Ali! Ali la Pointe! I am giving you another thirty seconds. What do you hope to gain? You've lost anyway. Thirty seconds, Ali, starting now.
ALI: ( in deep, resigned voice ) Who wants to leave?
HASSIBA: What are you going to do?
ALI: I don't deal with them.
CAPTAIN: ( to another paratrooper ) You stay here by the door to signal the others. When I call you, all of you come down .
CAPTAIN: Stand back! Ready, Pierre?
GENERAL: And so the tapeworm no longer has a head. Are you satisfied, Mathieu? In Algiers everything should be over.
MATHIEU: Yes, I believe there won't be any more talk of the NLF for some time.
GENERAL: Let's hope forever. Another colonel intervenes:
1ST COLONEL: At heart they are good people. We've had good relations with them for a hundred and thirty years . I don't see why we shouldn't continue that way.
2ND COLONEL: Yes, but Algiers is not the only city in Bah, for that matter, Algeria isn't the only country in the world .
MATHIEU: ( smiling ) Bah, for that matter, Algeria isn't the only country in the world .
GENERAL: ( smiling ) Why, yes, of course . But for the moment, let's be satisfied with Algiers! In the mountains our work is always Gradually the officers move away down the slanting street toward their jeeps, and their remarks fade away and are lost.
JOURNALIST: No one knows what could have been the pretext. The fact is that they seem to be unleashed without warning . I telephoned Lausanne . yes, Lausanne. I spoke with an NLF leader in exile. They don't know anything there.
VOICES: Algerie Musulmane!
VOICES: Free Ben-Bel-la! Free Ben-Bel-la!
VOICES: Ta-hia Et-thou-ar! [Long live the partisans!]
VOICES: Ta-hia el-Djez-air! Ta-hia el-Djez-air!
VOICE OF: ( off ) Today the situation is tenser. In spite of pressure from the more intolerant colonialist group it seems that the Government has given strict orders not to use arms except in emergency situations. But this afternoon there were attempts to enter the European city by force: as a result, the first casualties . Now calm has returned, although from the Casbah continue to be heard those cries . incoherent, rhythmic, nightmarish cries . And then, from time to time, in the by now dark night, the shrill and angry ju-jus.
ENGLISH: ( off ) Today the situation is tenser. In spite of pressure from the more intolerant colonialist group it seems that the Government has given strict orders not to use arms except in emergency situations. But this afternoon there were attempts to enter the European city by force: as a result, the first casualties . Now calm has returned, although from the Casbah continue to be heard those cries . incoherent, rhythmic, nightmarish cries . And then, from time to time, in the by now dark night, the shrill and angry ju-jus.
JOURNALIST: ( off ) Today the situation is tenser. In spite of pressure from the more intolerant colonialist group it seems that the Government has given strict orders not to use arms except in emergency situations. But this afternoon there were attempts to enter the European city by force: as a result, the first casualties . Now calm has returned, although from the Casbah continue to be heard those cries . incoherent, rhythmic, nightmarish cries . And then, from time to time, in the by now dark night, the shrill and angry ju-jus.
VOICE OF: ( off ) This morning for the first time, the people appeared with their flags green and white with half moon and star. Thousands of flags. They must have sewn them overnight. Flags so to speak. Many are strips of sheets, shirts, ribbons, rags . but anyway they are flags.
ENGLISH: ( off ) This morning for the first time, the people appeared with their flags green and white with half moon and star. Thousands of flags. They must have sewn them overnight. Flags so to speak. Many are strips of sheets, shirts, ribbons, rags . but anyway they are flags.
JOURNALIST: ( off ) This morning for the first time, the people appeared with their flags green and white with half moon and star. Thousands of flags. They must have sewn them overnight. Flags so to speak. Many are strips of sheets, shirts, ribbons, rags . but anyway they are flags.
SPEAKER: "Another two years had to pass and infinite losses on both sides; and then July 2, 1962 independence was obtained the Algerian Nation was born."
VOICES: Ta-hia el-Djez-air! Ta-hia el-Djez-air! Ta-hia el-Djez-air!
THE END: Screenplay by Franco Solinas
