HUSTLER: You need somewhere to stay?
RICHARD: I'll be OK, Thanks. Richard politely ignores each of his subsequent offers.
HUSTLER: What do you want? Sell your passport? Buy passport? Airline tickets? You want silk? I'll take you to the best silk place? You get a suit in twenty-four hours. Diamonds? You want to come with me, you get present for your girlfriend. Maybe no girlfriend. You want a girl, no problem. Good time. Boy girl fucking no problem. You want to drink some snake blood? At this last one Richard stops and addresses the Hustler.
RICHARD: No thanks. Richard walks on, the hustler fading out behind him.
HUSTLER: You want designer clothes? I get you Versache, Gucci, Armani, no problem. You want a camera, all the best makes: Nikon, Leica, Canon I can get you.
TRAVELER 1: Where you been?
TRAVELER 2: Where you going?
TRAVELER 3: I've been there
TRAVELER 4: It's a waste of time
TRAVELER1: We just got back
TRAVELER2: TRAVELER 3 How much did it cost?
TRAVELER 3: How much did it cost?
TRAVELER5: A complete rip off.
TRAVELER3: Too many people. There's a much better place along the coast.
TRAVELER 4: We're going exploring. We've read this book. It tells us all the best places to explore.
TRAVELER 2: I know a place that everyone says is really unspoiled.
TRAVELER 1: I heard they built a big hotel there.
TRAVELER 5: Some sort of sewage problem, apparently.
TRAVELER 1: We're going anyway: all the rooms have got air conditioning.
RICHARD: Good evening. Daffy says nothing but continues to stare and takes a drink. Richard will not be stared down. Neither turns away. The Receptionist passes over a key and smiles broadly.
HOTEL RECEPTIONIST: Welcome to Thailand. Richard turns to her.
RICHARD: Thank you.
FRANCOIS: Et voila. The door swings gently open. She stands back
RICHARD: Thank you. Footsteps approach from the stair. Francoise is joined by a young man, ETIENNE, who catches up with her. He nods at Richard as he takes her arm. They walk away from Richard to the next door.
FRANCOISE: Eh - bonsoir.
RICHARD: Eh - bonsoir.
ETIENNE: The couple reach their door. They enter their room and the door is closed behind them. Alone in the corridor again, Richard contemplates their presence.
DAFFY: Excuse me.
RICHARD: I'm Daffy.
DAFFY: I'm Daffy.
RICHARD: Richard. Hi.
DAFFY: Look, I'm sorry to bother you but I was wondering if you could help me out.
RICHARD: Help you out?
DAFFY: Yeah; just ten or fifteen dollars maybe.
RICHARD: I'm sorry, I don't think so.
DAFFY: I'm waiting on some money coming through. It's just that at the moment, you know, I'm short. They're going to chuck me out. On the street in Bangkok, that's bad.
RICHARD: I'm really sorry but I just arrived; I'm on a pretty tight budget myself. I just can't afford it.
DAFFY: Just five dollars, please. He leans in close to Richard
DAFFY: ( continuing ) I'll share something with you.
RICHARD: I'm sorry. I can't lend you any money. Daffy retreats. Richard turns back to the video and his food. Daffy approaches two young women sitting at a nearby table.
DAFFY: Excuse me, ladies, is there any chance you could help me out. I'm down on my luck at the moment. The two young women seem uncomfortable. Richard notices.
DAFFY: ( continuing ) if you could see your way to lending me some cash -
RICHARD: He leans across and holds out a ten dollar note for Daffy.
DAFFY: Thank you, sir. Thank you. I promise I will repay you.
RICHARD: Just take it, OK. Daffy takes it. Richard returns to the video as a big yellow explosion is reflected on his face.
RICHARD: No, I don't have anything to smoke. Daffy stares at him for a moment. Recognition dawns.
DAFFY: You. You're the guy that lent me the money.
RICHARD: Yeah, that's right. Now could you be quiet so I can get some sleep.
DAFFY: Ten dollars. I'll find a way to pay you back. How would you like to know About somewhere special? The perfect beach. Paradise. No one else knows about it. That's got to be worth something. What do you say?
RICHARD: Look I don't care about the money right now: I just want some sleep. So if you could be quiet -
DAFFY: Yea, OK. I will be, I will be, I promise.
RICHARD: Richard turns away.
DAFFY: Richard - He turns back.
DAFFY: ( Continuing ) Been nice knowing you. He sticks his hand out. Richard politely reciprocates.
RICHARD: They shake hands.
RICHARD: Good morning.
ETIENNE: Good morning.
FRANCOISE: Did you sleep well?
RICHARD: Not too bad.
FRANCOISE: I hope our noise did not keep you awake. Richard looks from one to the other.
RICHARD: The noise? Don't worry. You're on holiday.
ETIENNE: She means your neighbor. The Scotsman
RICHARD: Oh, that noise! Yes, he certainly did.
ETIENNE: We moved rooms because of him.
FRANCOISE: He tried to borrow money from us.
ETIENNE: What idiot would lend him money? It would disappear.
FRANCOISE: He said if we lent him money h would tell us about a secret beach.
ETIENNE: It's on an island that no one get to.
FRANCOISE: But he has been there, off course.
ETIENNE: It was ridiculous; all this at three o'clock in the morning.
RICHARD: It would be nice though, if there was a place like that. You know, that no one could get to.
ETIENNE: Of course, but look; all these people. If that place existed, they'd all be there.
TRAVEL AGENT: Nakhon - Pathom - Phra Ptahom Chedi - Damnoen Sadual floating market - eight hundred baht. Kanchanburi - Erwan national Park Phrathat Cave, huang Khamin Falls - six hundred baht. Nam Tok, hellfire Pass, Three Pagodas, Sai Yok National Park - fifteen hundred baht. Bang Pa In Royal Palace, Ayatthaya, Wat Phra Manhathat, Wat Raburna - one thousand baht. What do you want? Richard studies the board but is not excited.
RICHARD: Twenty Marlboro light, please. Instantly the Travel Agent produces the packet of cigarettes from a shelf and lays them on the counter.
DETECTIVE: What are you doing in Thailand? Tourist?
RICHARD: You go to Patpong? See smoke from pussy, ping pong ball from pussy, razor blade from pussy; bird from pussy.
DETECTIVE: You go to Patpong? See smoke from pussy, ping pong ball from pussy, razor blade from pussy; bird from pussy.
RICHARD: I don't think so.
DETECTIVE: Why not? Thai girls best in the world. Thai food best in the world. Thai dope best in the world.
RICHARD: I wouldn't know anything about that, sir.
RICHARD: OK, this island may not actually exist. And even if it does, we might not be able to get there. But look at it like this: what else is there to do around here? Richard is alone.
RICHARD: ( continuing ) So what do you think? Are you going to come or not. I'd be thrilled if you'd join me, you and your you and your boyfriend.
RICHARD: Hi. You want to take a hike? I mean a trip. A journey. With your girlfriend and me. I mean the two of you, and me. It's a secret island. Paradise. You know the kind of thing I'm talking about. Francoise appears behind Etienne.
FRANCOISE: Hi there. Here, take a look. He shows Etienne the map.
RICHARD: Hi there. Here, take a look. He shows Etienne the map.
RICHARD: ( continuing ) It's a map. The dead guy left it for me; I think it's the place he tried to sell you. It's going to be just fucking great. You want to come? I'd be thrileld if Francoise and Etienne are looking at him.
ETIENNE: It's arranged. Tomorrow morning. Eight hundred baht.
RICHARD: Nice work.
ETIENNE: There is one problem. Etienne opens the map on the table.
ETIENNE: He will not take us to the island. It's in the National Park and it is forbidden to go there. But we are allowed to travel to this one to stay for one night.
RICHARD: That's the wrong one.
ETINENNE: I know that. Francoise sits down with a drink.
RICHARD: So from there to there?
FRANCOISE: We swim.
RICHARD: We leave our rucksacks on this island and then we swim.
ETIENNE: We leave our rucksacks on this island and then we swim.
FRANCOISE: You can swim?
RICHARD: Yes, of course I can swim. How far do you think it is?
ETIENNE: One or two kilometers.
RICHARD: Oh. Great. Not far at all. I don't like to be negative, but do you think we should let someone know where we're going?
ETIENNE: We're going to swim "one or two kilometers" across open sea, from one uninhabited island to another. Something goes wrong. What then?
RICHARD: We're going to swim "one or two kilometers" across open sea, from one uninhabited island to another. Something goes wrong. What then?
FRANCOISE: Have you told someone?
RICHARD: I think it's a bad idea to tell anyone.
FRANCOISE: I think it's a bad idea to tell anyone.
ETIENNE: Richard, it's secret. That's the whole point.
RICHARD: Yeah, OK. Foreget it. We won't tell anyone. Richard picks up the map
ZEPH: Fuck, I knew we locked it. We should have left it unlocked. Sammy addresses Richard
SAMMY: We lost our key
RICHARD: Where did you lose it?
ZEPH: On the beach. Or in the water.
SAMMY: The truth is we don't know.
RICHARD: You try reception?
ZEPH: Closed. Back later. We hope.
RICHARD: Pretty annoying
SAMMY: It's a disaster, to which there is only one sensible, considered, appropriate, and timely response. EXT. BUNGALOW. NIGHT. I smoke two joints in the morning, and I smoke two joints at night, and I smoke two joints in the afternoon, and then I feel alright. I smoke two joints in time of peace, and two in time of war. I smoke two joints before I smoke two joints and then I smoke some more. I can't remember the rest.
ZEPH: I smoke two joints in the morning, and I smoke two joints at night, and I smoke two joints in the afternoon, and then I feel alright. I smoke two joints in time of peace, and two in time of war. I smoke two joints before I smoke two joints and then I smoke some more. I can't remember the rest.
RICHARD: Perhaps you smoked too much dope.
ZEPH: Not possible
SAMMY: Do you know the Kentucky friend mouse story?"
RICHARD: Woman bites chicken leg, turns out to be a mouse. Or a rat. It's an urban myth.
SAMMY: Exactly. Always happened to someone else.
RICHARD: So there's an urban myth, well more of a rural myth, going around here at the moment. It's about a beach.
SAMMY: So there's an urban myth, well more of a rural myth, going around here at the moment. It's about a beach.
RICHARD: Yea. This beach is perfect. It's on an island, right, hidden from the sea. Imagine: pure white sand and enough dope to smoke all day every day for the rest of your life. Only a few know exactly where it is and they won't tell anyone.
ZEPH: Yea. This beach is perfect. It's on an island, right, hidden from the sea. Imagine: pure white sand and enough dope to smoke all day every day for the rest of your life. Only a few know exactly where it is and they won't tell anyone.
SAMMY: Of course no one's actually ever met any of these people, only met someone who has. You know what I mean. It's a Kentucky fried mouse.
RICHARD: I hadn't heard that one before. But it's good. It's a good story. A torch shines on them, jolting them into some sort of reaction and a woman's voice calls out.
THAI WOMAN: Hey, you! I got your key! INT. BUNGALOW. DAY Richard is sitting copying Daffy's map on to another sheet of paper. He finishes and writes a note on the copy. He puts the original in his pack and lifts it. EXT. BUNGALOW. DAY. Richard hops over the fence to the veranda of Zeph and Sammy's bungalow. He slips the folded copy under their door. He looks around to check that he has not been seen. EXT BEACH. DAY Richard walks along a narrow wooden pontoon, his rucksack on his back. He stops about half way along at a small narrow wooden boat with an outboard motor. He looks down into it. Etienne and Francoise walk past him along the pontoon without stopping and disappear from view.
RICHARD: Francoise -
FRANCOISE: Sshh. Etienne will be angry if I wake him. He thinks I waste film taking photographs of the sky. Richard wakes up and works out what she is doing.
RICHARD: I think so too.
FRANCOISE: One night I will get the perfect photograph. She presses the cable release.
FRANCOISE: ( continuing ) Un, deux, trois, quatre, cinq, six. She lets the shutter close.
FRANCOISE: ( continuing ) Take a look. Richard leans over and squints down the viewfinder. The sky is framed. Francoise leans into the frame. Richard draws back.
RICHARD: You realize that in the eternity of space, there is a planet, just like this one, where you are photographing back towards us. You're photographing yourself.
FRANCOISE: There are infinite worlds out there, where anything that can happen does happen.
RICHARD: There are infinite worlds out there, where anything that can happen does happen.
FRANCOISE: So on one you are rich, on another poor. On one you are a murderer, on another the victim.
RICHARD: Richard, you know something - She hands him the cable release while she adjusts the camera.
FRANCOISE: Richard, you know something - She hands him the cable release while she adjusts the camera.
FRANCOISE: ( continuing ) That is just the kind of pretentious bullshit that Englishmen and Americans always say to French girls so that they can sleep with them.
RICHARD: Sorry. I thought I was doing quite well. It's just the sky, Richard. She presses his thumb down on the cable release, her hand around his.
FRANCOISE: ( continuing ) Un, deux, trois, quatre, cinq, six, sept Time lapse: the sky rapidly changes to day.
ETIENNE: One kilometer
FRANCOISE: I don't know - I'm American.
ETIENNE: I don't know - I'm American.
RICHARD: I don't know - I'm American.
ETIENNE: We think in miles, not kilometers.
RICHARD: We think in miles, not kilometers.
ETIENNE: So how many miles do you think it is?
RICHARD: I have no idea but it looks like a long way.
RICHARD: If it's too far, then we'll drwon. But if we don’t' try then we'll never know. Richard wades into the water.,
RICHARD: So, let's go.
RICHARD: SO, let's go.
RICHARD: Everyone ok?
ETIENNE: We're ok.
RICHARD: I think we're about half way. A few strokes later.
ETIENNE: Richard - I saw a fin!
RICHARD: A fin! They all stop and tread water.
ETIENNE: A fin! They all stop and tread water.
RICHARD: A shark fin?
ETIENNE: I don't know, just a fin. Over there. About a hundred meters.
RICHARD: Well what the fuck do you expect me to do about it.
RICHARD: Well what the fuck do you expect me to do about it.
ETIENNE: Nothing. I just thought you ought to know.
RICHARD: Well to be honest, Etienne, I would rather have not known about it.
ETIENNE: I'm sorry.
RICHARD: A bit fucking late. He starts swimming again. A few strokes later he hears a short sharp scream from Francoise.
ETIENNE: Francoise! Francoise! Richard turns around. Francoise is gone. Her plastic bag bobs on the surface. Etienne is frantic, hysterical.
ETIENNE: ( continuing ) She is gone!
RICHARD: What happened? Etienne submerges briefly and resurfaces.
ETIENNE: She just went under the water. She was pulled under. Oh God, I don't see her.
RICHARD: Was there a shark? Did you see a shark? They both start looking down at their feet and circling frantically in the water.
ETIENNE: I don't know! I don't know! Oh God. Suddenly Richard screams. Francoise surfaces, pulling up his ankle. She and Etienne laugh at Richard.
RICHARD: Very funny. You Europeans, you have ssuch a playful sense of humor. No wonder your comedy has conquered the world. He swims on.
ETIENNE: What about Moliere?
RICHARD: Fuck off. He swims on without looking round.
ETIENNE: Nice Island. They smile and examine the plants. Richard wanders a short distance away. Something glinting on the ground catches Richard's eye. He leans down and picks it up. It is an empty brass cartridge from a rifle. Richard looks around. Just ahead he sees the remains of an extinguished campfire, and beyond that, protruding from the undergrowth, a pair of male legs and beyond them, the butt of a rifle. CLOSE IN on the nest in the undergrowth. The legs and gun belong to a Farmer. He is asleep. His physique is strong and his skin weathered. Richard turns back to Etienne and Francoise. They are still strolling amongst the plants. Richard begins to back away. The Farmer wakes. He lifts his gun and stands up to look out over the dope field. EXT. FIELD. DAY. EXT. FIELD. DAY. He looks over. A group of three more, similarly armed Farmers emerge from the forest at the other side. He waves at them. They beckon him across. He sets off through the field. EXT. AMONG PLANTS. DAY. Suddenly Richard stops. The farmer's footsteps come closer. His feet pass in the gap between Richard and Francoise. He pauses. They lie frozen in place. He lights a cigarette and drops the match. He moves on. They breath again. EXT. EDGE OF FIELD. DAY. My God, what are we doing here?
FRANCOISE: My God, what are we doing here?
ETIENNE: Shit. This was not on the map, Richard.
RICHARD: I didn't draw the map, Etienne.
ETIENNE: It's a fucking mess.
RICHARD: I didn't force you to come, so don't blame me.
FRANCOISE: We should go back. It's too dangerous. We shouldn't be here.
RICHARD: Go back? How? Swim perhaps? Great idea. Back in the water? Well fuck that. You swim back if you want to. Both of you. I'm not.
ETIENNE: Richard - she is frightened. So am I. Richard looks at them. They await his lead.
RICHARD: Well, we're not going back. Richard smiles. The other two are still nervous.
ETIENNE: If we follow this down, it should lead us all the way to the lagoon.
RICHARD: That's right, all the way down.
ETIENNE: Well, Richard, how are we going to get down?
RICHARD: Why are you asking me?
ETIENNE: Why shouldn't I?
RICHARD: Because you can have an opinion too.
ETIENNE: I have an opinion
RICHARD: OK, so let's hear it.
FRANCOISE: We'll jump.
RICHARD: Don't be stupid. Etienne?
ETIENNE: We'll climb down over there.
RICHARD: So, what do you think?
ETIENNE: So, what do you think?
FRANCOISE: Listen to me - we can jump.
RICHARD: No, if we try to climb there we'll all be killed. Over there looks better.
ETIENNE: Maybe we could make a rope out of some creepers.
RICHARD: Yes, or maybe we could build a hang glider and a giant staircase.
FRANCOISE: ( Shouting ) They turn to her. She is standing with her back to the drop.
RICHARD: She turns around.
ETIENNE: She jumps. She falls towards and into the pool. Richard and Etienne scramble to the edge and peer over. She surfaces and waves. Richard and Etienne look at each other.
RICHARD: OK, so we'll jump.
KEATY: Congratulation. It took me the best part of an hour to work up the balls to do that. Mind you, I was alone, so you have to make allowances. They say nothing.
KEATY: ( continuing ) I'm Keaty.
RICHARD: Are there many people here? Keaty raises a hand to stop Richard's question.
KEATY: The Q and A comes later. First of all, I think you'd better meet Sal.
RICHARD: He's dead. He cut his wrists open in a hotel room on the Khao San Road. The police didn't know what to do with the body. I guess they'll incinerate him or something.
SAL: Do you tink he gave a mpa like this to anyone else.
RICHARD: I don't know. I don't think so.
SAL: And you, have you told anyone or shown anyone this map?
ETIENNE: Commence a montage of various scenes of island life involving its citizens and the newcomers. The longhouse stands at one edge of a clearing, dominating it. Scattered around are several other smaller huts and a few tents. Other locations are the beach, the garden, and the forest. We see the inhabitants
FRANCOISE: Commence a montage of various scenes of island life involving its citizens and the newcomers. The longhouse stands at one edge of a clearing, dominating it. Scattered around are several other smaller huts and a few tents. Other locations are the beach, the garden, and the forest. We see the inhabitants
RICHARD: Commence a montage of various scenes of island life involving its citizens and the newcomers. The longhouse stands at one edge of a clearing, dominating it. Scattered around are several other smaller huts and a few tents. Other locations are the beach, the garden, and the forest. We see the inhabitants
SAL: Commence a montage of various scenes of island life involving its citizens and the newcomers. The longhouse stands at one edge of a clearing, dominating it. Scattered around are several other smaller huts and a few tents. Other locations are the beach, the garden, and the forest. We see the inhabitants
CHRISTO: We like fishing
KARL: Fishing. Yeah.
STEN: And in the winter we like skiing.
CHRISTO: And in the winter we like skiing.
KARL: But in Thailand - there is no skiing.
STEN: But in Thailand - there is no skiing.
CHRISTO: But in Thailand - there is no skiing.
SONJA: We are from Sarajevo.
MIRJANA: Our hearts are full of loss
RICHARD: I'm sorry. They start laughing at him
SONJA: It's alright.
MIRJANA: We tell everyone that.
WEATHERGIRL: I feel a tightness in my pelvis; it's gonna rain. Heavy rain falls.
GUITARMAN: ( singing badly ) "Come as you are, as you were, and as I want you to be "
BUGS: We were in the dessert for three weeks. It's forty-eight in the shade and there's bugger all of that to speak of. We're on one and half liters a day; it's practically suicide. But every morning we'd look east and see the sunrise, and I'd thing, if I die today - it's worth it.
CHRISTO: OK. Now you stand still. You wait. The fish come. You wait until the fish are still. They trust you. You wait. His speech is hypnotic, calming. His students take in the view.
CHRISTO: ( continuing ) And then- He suddenly throws the spear into the water. He lifts it out triumphant.
CHRISTO: ( continuing ) You kill A dying fish wriggles on the end of the spear.
CHRISTO: ( continuing ) Now, you try. Richard, Etienne and Francoise wade apart a little and into deeper water. They wait and look.
CHRISTO: No, no, no. Too fast. Slowly. They pause Richard throws. He hauls his spear from the water.
RICHARD: A decent sized fish wriggles on the end.
CHRISTO: You are a natural! They all congratulate him. Richard raises the spear aloft.
RICHARD: And I say unto you: I shall provide.
KEATY: Ah, the hunter gatherer returns. Satisfied with a good day's killing amongst the fruits of the sea?
RICHARD: That's me: a good day's killing.
KEATY: God has smiled on you.
RICHARD: He has?
KEATY: He has made you sharp of eye and swift of limb. In other words, you catch a lot of fish, you'll be very popular around here.
RICHARD: Don’t forget to thank Him, will you?
KEATY: Don’t forget to thank Him, will you?
RICHARD: I'll try.
KEATY: He'd appreciate that. Anyway, first day's fishing, first day's catch, you lot are just about ready to join the community.
RICHARD: I thought we already had.
KEATY: Not yet baptized, my son, not yet baptized.
KEATY: It hurts. OK? Etienne nods. Keaty swiftly cuts the simple symbol just below Etienne's shoulder and smears blue powder into the cut. Etienne winces. Keaty finishes and hands the knife to Etienne who heats the blade briefly in the fire before he turns to Francoise. He kisses her arm before he cuts. Francoise takes the knife. Richard offers his arm. She grips it tightly. She hesitates. He looks into her eyes. She cuts. He grimaces. She works on, holding his arm.
RICHARD: He's good.
FRANCOISE: Etienne. He's good at soccer.
RICHARD: Etienne. He's good at soccer.
FRANCOISE: Oh, I wouldn't know.
RICHARD: You don't like soccer?
FRANCOISE: No. It's so boring.
RICHARD: Yea, but he is good. Look. Nearly scored.
FRANCOISE: Is that good or bad?
RICHARD: I think it's good. Not that I think there's anything good about being good at soccer. Anyone could do that. I could do it if I wanted to. I just don't want to. That's all. She sits up.
FRANCOISE: What are you talking about?
RICHARD: What are you talking about?
FRANCOISE: What are you talking about?
RICHARD: I don't know. Just conversation.
FRANCOISE: Do you have a girlfriend?
RICHARD: No. Why?
FRANCOISE: No. Why?
RICHARD: No. Why?
FRANCOISE: Just conversation.
RICHARD: I'm not jealous, if that's what you're thinking.
FRANCOISE: No, it's what you are thinking. You are far from home. You meet a girl. It's exciting, why not? You are attracted to her - it's in your eyes. Perhaps in hers as well. So you think something might happen; it's easy to believe, it's exciting. But she has a boyfriend so you are jealous. Don't worry. It's natural. Now I have seen enough football. Shall we swim? Richard is stunned.
RICHARD: So would I be wrong?
FRANCOISE: If I thought something might happen - would I be wrong? She touches him.
RICHARD: If I thought something might happen - would I be wrong? She touches him.
FRANCOISE: Richard, how would I know? I don't know any more than you. She walks away. Richard watches her go. He turns to the football. Etienne scores.
BUGS: I can deal with it!
GREGORIO: I don't want you to deal with it.
BUGS: It won't take a minute.
GREGORIO: No! Please, no! I must go to the mainland. Onlookers join in.
VARIOUS: No way/ You can't go to the mainland/ No, etc.
GREGORIO: Sal looks up for the first time.
SAL: Sorry, I wasn't really tuned in. You want to go to the mainland? To see a dentist, is that it?
GREGORIO: Sal is casual but firm.
SAL: No. It's out of the question. She returns to the book. With help from two or three other people, Bgs drags Gregorio to the floor and rips out the offending tooth with a pair of pliers. Gregorio screams.
CHRISTO: The problem is seeing the fish. With the rain and the poor light, they are very difficult to catch. It could last for days. Sometimes when it rains, we get hungry.
RICHARD: Hey, Etienne, you going fishing?
ETIENNE: I don't know, maybe if -
RICHARD: Don’t' worry. You just sit there. I'll go, OK? I'll go. You just sit there. He takes the mask and snorkel from Christo and marches down towards the sea.
ETIENNE: Good luck Richard looks back at them but says nothing. He pulls the mask on and resumes his march into the sea.
RICHARD: ( Shouting ) I can't hear. He takes the mask off to clean the lens.
RICHARD: ( Continuing ) And you can't hear me. He puts the mask back on and turns away from the shore. He freezes. There is a shark's fin in the water, moving towards him. He looks around. The shore seems far away. He starts swimming frantically towards it. The shark closes in. Richard submerges and turns to face the shark. The shark approaches head on. It is about five feet long with the appropriate teeth. Richard is terrified, convinced he is about to die. The shark swoops towards him at speed. It stops, its teeth centimeters from his mask. It pauses then flicks its tail and swims past Richard. He is astonished. It circles him and approaches again, pausing just in front. Tentatively, Richard raises a hand. The shark does not react. Richard pats it gently on its snout. It swims around him again. Richard sees small fish swimming around him. He spears one and holds it out on the tip of his spear. The shark snatches it off and repeats its circle but does not threaten Richard. He smiles. As it approaches again, he holds the spear in both hands and lowers it by his side. The shark bobs in front of him, curious and friendly. Richard's arms begin their forward motion as his V.O. commences.
RICHARD: "Hey Richard - enjoy your dinner." There are cheers to the end of his story. Bugs waits until these die down.
BUGS: Strange thing, killing a shark, isn't it?
RICHARD: Just a big fish, Bugs.
BUGS: Just a big fish? Maybe. Maybe when it's still a baby and it hasn't really learned to kill yet, then maybe it's just a big fish. But when it's a great white angry mother with the taste of human blood on its tongue, well then it's a different story. Richard yawns noisily. Some people laugh. He notice Bugs scowling at him.
RICHARD: Sorry, Bugs. Is it just me or does this wet weather make everybody tired? Maybe we can hear your "very different" and I'm sure "very fascinating" story some other time. There is a flurry of exaggerated yawning, sniggering, extinguishing of candles and calls of "goodnight". Bugs does not laugh. He stares at Richard. Richard is smiling as he extinguishes the final candle.
KEATY: Wicketkeeper. First slip. Second slip. Gully. Square leg. Long leg. Silly mid-off. Cover point. At low tide, two sets of cricket stumps have been set up on the beach some twenty yards apart. The stumps and bats have been roughly hewn. At one end, Sten stands with a bat, ready to defend his stumps. At the other end stands Keaty, who is umpiring. Behind them, the bowler warms up, holding a small rubber ball. Among the ten fielders are Etienne and Francoise. Richard, the second batsman, walks toward Keaty, practicing with an air of exuberance.
KEATY: ( Continuing ) We thank you Lord, for the twin pillars of civilization, Christianity and cricket, even when played by those of another faith., Amen. Ok, right arm over the wicket; first ball. The bowler runs up and bowls. Sten hits the ball and it is fielded for no run at leaisurly pace by Etienne. Keaty and Richard watch.
KEATY: ( Continuing ) You do realize that killing a defenseless shark won't make any difference.
RICHARD: Difference to what?
KEATY: You and Francoise, that's what.
RICHARD: Sorry Keaty, but I don't know what you're talking about.
KEATY: That is why you killed it, isn't it? Ducked one way then the other! All to impress her, I suppose. The second ball is bowled and fielded.
KEATY: ( Continuing ) But you haven't got a chance in hell. I'm not saying you won't get a quick fumble in her knickers down the back of the longhouse but in the long run. Third ball
RICHARD: I don't need to discuss this with you.
KEATY: No ball!
RICHARD: Also, you're wrong. Third ball re-bowled and hit well.
KEATY: Four runs! He turns back to Richard.
KEATY: ( continuing ) Richard, you are a novelty act. He is the main attraction.
RICHARD: Thank you for your opinion, Father. Fourth ball.
KEATY: I don't mean to bring you down. I just wouldn't want anyone to get hurt
RICHARD: If you don't shut up, you're the one that's going to get hurt. One other thing.
KEATY: One other thing.
RICHARD: He's better looking than you.
KEATY: He's better looking than you.
RICHARD: Fifth ball bowled and hit. The batsmen both run, Richard and Sten exchanging places. Richard prepares to face the bowler
KEATY: Right arm over the wicket. One ball remaining. The ball is bowled. Richard hits it in the air.
KEATY: Catch it! Catch it! Etienne catches it. Keaty signals "out". Richard walks away from the wicket, past Keaty and the celebrating fielders, Francoise among them, who have gathered around Etienne.
SAL: Aren't you going to stay and watch the game?
RICHARD: No. As a matter of fact, I'm going to go for a long walk.
SAL: Don't forget about this evening. You wouldn't want to miss it.
RICHARD: Why? What happens this evening? Another obscure English sport with which to humiliate the Americans?
SAL: It's the anniversary, Richard.
SAL: To the first six years. They all drink. Richard cringes at the unpleasant taste. Beside him, Etienne proudly gulps down the whole drink. Sonja refills the cups, pouring freely.
SAL: ( continuing ) And looking forward to the next one. They all drink again. Once again, Richard sips while Etienne empties his cup.
RICHARD: So who was actually the first here?
SAL: Well, technically, Daffy was the first person on the island.
RICHARD: So why did he leave? There is an immediate silence.
SAL: Why did Daffy leave? What made him unhappy? The silence persists.
RICHARD: Why did Daffy leave? What made him unhappy? The silence persists.
RICHARD: ( continuing ) Sorry. Have I broken a rule?
SAL: No, Richard, don't worry. Daffy left because he felt that in coming to paradise we had inevitably destroyed it.
RICHARD: Because you built a shelter.
SAL: He was a purist.
MIRJANA: He was crazy. There is a general murmur of agreement.
RICHARD: Must have been. The atmosphere is still slightly awkward. Guitarman breaks the silence by plunging into a rendition of a popular favorite. Sonja refills the cups. Once again, Etienne tilts back his head and drinks.
FRANCOISE: Look at him. It's disgraceful to drink so much.
RICHARD: I think he just got carried away with the excitement of the occasion.
FRANCOISE: Don't make excuses for him. I'm so embarrassed.
RICHARD: Francoise -
FRANCOISE: Richard, would you like to go tot the beach with me.
RICHARD: Richard and Francoise walk down the shore to the moonlit sea. Francoise wades in up to her thighs. Richard follows.
FRANCOISE: Do you like it here, Richard?
RICHARD: I love this island.
FRANCOISE: Do you think about home?
RICHARD: Nor do I. Do you think that I ignore you?
FRANCOISE: Nor do I. Do you think that I ignore you?
RICHARD: Me? No.
FRANCOISE: It's because I am with Etienne. It's difficult to spend time with you.
RICHARD: I don't suppose there's any special reason that you should, spend time with me, that is.
FRANCOISE: Of course there is: I like you, a lot.
RICHARD: And have you mentioned this to Etienne.
FRANCOISE: No. It's our secret. They are very close now, looking into each others' eyes. Suddenly Francoise looks away.
FRANCOISE: ( continuing ) Look! The plankton. Shrimps. In the dark, when they are disturbed, they glow. She dives in. He follows.
RICHARD: Look! The plankton. Shrimps. In the dark, when they are disturbed, they glow. She dives in. He follows.
FRANCOISE: Look! The plankton. Shrimps. In the dark, when they are disturbed, they glow. She dives in. He follows.
SAL: Alright, I've got some bad news. As some of you may have heard, a couple of sacks of rice have gone rotten. Now this is not a disaster -
VARIOUS: Oh, no.
SAL: Yes, that's right: I need a volunteer to go to Ko Pha Ngan with me to buy some rice. So please don't all volunteer at once. There are no volunteers. Everyone avoids Sal's eye.
SAL: ( continuing ) I went two months ago.
KEATY: I went two months ago.
SAL: And so did I. Anyone else? Still no volunteers.
SAL: ( continuing ) Richard has been scrutinizing Francoise's back.
RICHARD: What about you? Will you come to Ko Pha Ngan with me?
SAL: What about you? Will you come to Ko Pha Ngan with me?
RICHARD: Sure. Yea. I'll come with you.
SAL: She smiles at him.
MAN 1: Toothbrush, toothpaste, sixty cigarettes, a new hat, some elastoplast, a pair of swimming trunks, four bars of chocolate and some razors.
WOMAN 1: One hundred aspirin, one hundred paracetamol, six boxes of regular tampons, toothpaste, soap and some shampoo.
MAN 2: Toothpaste, a ball of string, four double-A batteries, and twenty condoms. No, make it forty.
WOMAN 2: Six bars of chocolate, moisturizer, four boxes of tampons, assorted sixes, two bars of soap and some toothpaste.
MAN 3: One tin of beef curry.
WOMAN 3: A newspaper, some boiled sweets, shampoo and conditioner, two hundred cigarettes, a pair of plastic sandals, small, a new swimsuit, size ten, bright but no flowers, a plain T-shirt, a jar of Vegemite and three cigarette lighters. The last to sit down opposite Richard is Bugs. He sits close, their knees almost touching. Richard is posed with his pen, ready to take note.
RICHARD: Anything I can do for you? Bugs smiles. His right arm whips out and he grabs Richard by the testicles. Richard buckles forward in pain.
BUGS: Yeah. When you get to Ko Pha Ngan, keep your hands to yourself and your dick in your pants. He releases Richard. Preplexed and in pain Richard watches Bugs walk away. INT. LONGHOUSE. NIGHT. The figure looking down at him is Sal.
RICHARD: Why are we leaving so early.
SAL: If you hang around, people take advantage of you, give you orders for all sorts of shit - clothes, condoms, Vegemite and God knows what else.
RICHARD: We go to Ko Pha Ngan, sell the dope, buy the rice, and come back. That's all. EXT. BEACH / Water. Day. Sal walks into the water and begins swimming out towards the cliff. Richard watches then dives into the water.
SAL: We go to Ko Pha Ngan, sell the dope, buy the rice, and come back. That's all. EXT. BEACH / Water. Day. Sal walks into the water and begins swimming out towards the cliff. Richard watches then dives into the water.
RICHARD: Anything I should know?
SAL: Anything I should know?
RICHARD: Anything I should know?
SAL: Don't breathe till you get to the other side. Sal submerges. Richard watches her disappear into an underwater tunnel into the rock. He takes a deep breath.,
SAL: Welcome to the garage. She pulls the start cord. The small engine's loud roar reverberates around the stone walls.
SAL: Good evening.
SUMET: Good evening, how are you?
SAL: Very well, thank you.
SUMET: You brought something?
SAL: As always. Sal puts the parcel on the desk. Sumet weighs it in her hand.
SUMET: We'd like to stay one night.
SAL: We'd like to stay one night.
SUMET: Two rooms?
SAL: Sumet looks at Richard.
SUMET: A good choice. Young and strong. She squeezes his arm and laughs.
SAL: She says she's got two rooms. No problem.
RICHARD: INT. PHONE BOOTH. NIGHT. I don't know. I just don't know. Maybe this year, maybe not. I like it here. Things are different out here.
RICHARD: I don't know. I just don't know. Maybe this year, maybe not. I like it here. Things are different out here.
RICHARD: You don't understand. He hangs up. He steps out of the booth. On the other side of the store are racks of patterned shirts and hats. Richard walks across and stares just beyond them. He is looking in a mirror, at himself, tanned and weathere-beaten.
RICHARD: Now I understand why no one wants to come for the rice.
SAL: So how does it feel to be back in the world?
RICHARD: It's not like I remembered it.
SAL: It gets worse every time. A hand rests on Richard's shoulder, gently pushing him aside to create space at the bar. It is Zeph.
ZEPH: Excuse me, please. He does not see Richard's face but concentrates on the barman. Richard recognizes him and conceals his face.
ZEPH: ( continuing ) Excuse me! Four beers please. Heinneken. The barman serves him. Sammy and two German girls stand behind Zeph. He passes the drink back to them and turns to speak. Richard and Sal listen in.
ZEPH: ( Continuing ) OK, where was I?
SAMMY: The beach.
ZEPH: Right, the beach: it's on this secret island, in the middle of the national park where no one is allowed to go. It's paradise.
GIRL 1: Sounds cool.
ZEPH: What's even better is we got the map of how to get there.
GIRL 1: Can we see it?
SAMMY: Sure. Let's go back to our place. We can smoke some dope, drink some beer, loosen off these tight clothes we're wearing, then check out the map.
ZEPH: But hey it's secret - if we show you the map, you have to come with us. They laugh. Zeph and Sammy high-five each other.
ZEPH: ( continuing ) Back in a minute. Just going to conduct a recon of the local sanitation facility. Richard watches him leave the bar.
ZEPH: Hey, Richard! I hardly fucking recognize you. Where have you been? The beach? Tell me - it's paradise.
RICHARD: There is no beach.
ZEPH: The map is wrong.
RICHARD: The map is wrong.
ZEPH: You've been?
RICHARD: No. it's dangerous.
ZEPH: Danger - hey, you're calling my middle name. What kind of danger?
RICHARD: Doesn't matter.
ZEPH: I think you're trying to put me off.
RICHARD: I'm just telling you, for your own good: stay away. Don't go. Don't even try. Just forget it.
ZEPH: We'll do whatever we want. He goes to leave. Richard places a hand on his chest. They stop for a moment. Zeph pushes the hand away.
ZEPH: ( continuing ) Fuck you. Zeph walks past then turns back.
ZEPH: ( continuing ) Stay away from the mushrooms, Richard, they make you paranoid.
SAL: That idiot Daffy? What was he doing - handing out Xerox copies to every asshole in Thailand?
RICHARD: Yeah, it's unbelievable.
SAL: Why? That's all I want to know. Why?
RICHARD: I don't know, Sal.
SAL: Pardon me for this, but thank Christ he's dead.
SAL: Bad news.
RICHARD: She gave away your room. She thought we were - you know - together. Sorry.
SAL: She gave away your room. She thought we were - you know - together. Sorry.
RICHARD: Right. Great. Well I'll go find somewhere else then. I'll meet you back here in the morning.
SAL: She shows him the key for the room. They look at each other.
SAL: ( continuing ) I'm going to play a couple of games of pool with Sumet. She throws the key. He catches.
SAL: ( continuing ) Why don't you go warm the bed?
RICHARD: Can I ask you a question?
SAL: Can I ask you a question?
RICHARD: Can I ask you a question?
SAL: It was great.
RICHARD: No, it's not that. I just wondered about Bugs. And me. Sal rouses herself.
SAL: OK, it's like this. Bugs is my boyfriend, my partner, and you, you're someone I just screwed. Is that ok? She turns on her side again.
RICHARD: That's fine. That's absolutely fine.
SAL: Good, now get some sleep - I may wish to have sex again before we eat breakfast.
RICHARD: For you.
FRANCOISE: I missed you.
RICHARD: I'm back.
FRANCOISE: What was it like?
RICHARD: The rice run? No problem.
FARNCOISE: I mean being with Sal?
RICHARD: Oh fine. Listen, do you want to go to the beach?
FRANCOISE: I can't. Meet me tomorrow morning. Ten o'clock at the waterfall. She touches him as she walks away.
RICHARD: Oh, Sal. Hi.
SAL: Hi? Is that all you can say? I thought we had a little more rapport than that.
RICHARD: I mean, hello, nice to see you. What brings you here.
SAL: I was looking for you.
RICHARD: Oh. Well, here I am.
SAL: I have to go somewhere. I'd like you to accompany me. Richard checks his watch.
RICHARD: Right now? It's not really all that convenient, Sal.
SAL: I'm sorry. Are you meeting someone?
RICHARD: Me? No.
SAL: You sure?
RICHARD: Good. So, you can come with me.
SAL: Good. So, you can come with me.
SAL: If they reach the island, I want you to discourage them from getting any further.
RICHARD: You'll think of something, Richard. I trust you. Sal kisses him on the cheak and leaves. Richard watches her go.
SAL: You'll think of something, Richard. I trust you. Sal kisses him on the cheak and leaves. Richard watches her go.
RICHARD: Sal! How long do I - Sal! She does not turn around. Richard turns back towards the other island. He focuses the binoculars. EXT. BEACH. DAY. EXT. HILLTOP. DAY. EXT. BEACH. NIGHT. Richard and Francoise are sitting in the shadows.
RICHARD: She didn't tell me how long I was supposed to wait or anything. You know what she's like, she just gets you to do things.
FRANCOISE: What kind of things?
RICHARD: Just things, you know. No, I don't.
FRANCOISE: No, I don't.
RICHARD: Hey, what's wrong - I'm sorry I wasn't there today. Is that it?
FRANCOISE: I think Sal is attracted to you.
RICHARD: No, I don't think so.
FRANCOISE: On Ko Pha Ngan, did anything happen?
RICHARD: Happen? No, nothing.
FRANCOISE: You promise.
RICHARD: I promise.
FRANCOISE: RICHARD ( V.O. ) Ok, so I lied. It just wasn't the right time. And the next day, we couldn't meet up either. It was straight back up. Same With the binoculars he can see the details of life in each of these
RICHARD: Come on, just through here. Watch out for the thorns. Here: look. ( continuing ) Well, what do you think?
RICHARD: ( continuing ) Well, what do you think?
FRANCOISE: What is it?
RICHARD: It's a shelter. I built it. I thought we could move up here. Get away from
FRANCOISE: Yeah. You'll need to tell Etienne, of course but -
RICHARD: Yeah. You'll need to tell Etienne, of course but -
FRANCOISE: Richard, it's horrible.
RICHARD: Primitive, yes, but you have to accept some limitation when you go for
FRANCOISE: And to eat?
RICHARD: Whatever I kill, we'll eat. Enjoy yourself, Richard. I'll see you later, back in civilizatin.
FRANCOISE: Enjoy yourself, Richard. I'll see you later, back in civilizatin.
RICHARD: Do you want a mushroom?
FRANCOISE: They grow here, all over the place. I picked some. Here. Francoise does not think this is funny.
RICHARD: They grow here, all over the place. I picked some. Here. Francoise does not think this is funny.
FRANCOISE: No thanks.
RICHARD: Please yourself. Francoise turns away. She struggles back through the undergrowth. Richard watches her. He swallows a handful of mushrooms.
RICHARD: Hi, guys.
CHRISTO: Hello Richard.
RICHARD: Do you want to calm down? I'm trying to tell you about something exciting.
FRANCOISE: I don't care about that.
RICHARD: No? Still pissed about the mushrooms. You know Francoise, sometimes you are
FRANCOISE: You liked to me. About Sal.
RICHARD: Oh, that. She told you?
FRANCOISE: She told everyone. She believes in openness and honesty, not like Come on, you were two-timing Etienne.
RICHARD: Come on, you were two-timing Etienne.
FRANCOISE: Because I liked you. I didn't know you were going to screw Sal twenty-four
RICHARD: Well if you're going to make such a big deal out of it -
FRANCOISE: Bugs is going to kill you. And you know what - I don't care. Richard does not flinch.
RICHARD: Don't you think we ought to go see what the problem is? Richard slugs him in the jaw.
KARL: Shark! Shark!
CHRISTO: Richard! My foot. My foot! It's so painful. My foot!
RICHARD: Yeah, your foot - it's - pretty bad. But it will be ok? Please Richard, when I get to the hospital?
CHRISTO: But it will be ok? Please Richard, when I get to the hospital?
RICHARD: Tell me - it will be ok.
CHRISTO: Tell me - it will be ok.
RICHARD: Yeah. Sure. Christo, it'll be ok.
KEATY: He made an effort to join in whatever was going on. For example, he played Others throw flowers in. Bugs hammers a wooden cross into the ground behind the grave.
ETIENNE: This is disgusting! You cannot do this! Take him back! Ok, that's far enough. Take him back, you fucking animals! The part walks away apart from Richard
SAL: Ok, that's far enough. Take him back, you fucking animals! The part walks away apart from Richard
ETIENNE: Take him back, you fucking animals! The part walks away apart from Richard
ETIENNE: ( continuing ) Fucking bastards!
RICHARD: It's not that they don't care, Etienne, it's just that they don't care in
ETIENNE: I understand: they wish he was dead.
RICHARD: No! they've be equally happy if he recovered. They just want an He needs a doctor.
ETIENNE: He needs a doctor.
RICHARD: You worked in a hospital.
ETIENNE: For one month, as a cleaner, a domestic.
RICHARD: Well that's one month longer than anyone else around here. Look, you're Look, Richard! Richard recoils.
ETIENNE: Look, Richard! Richard recoils.
RICHARD: It's gangrene. It's spreading. He needs an amputation. You're going to do it here?
ETIENNE: It's gangrene. It's spreading. He needs an amputation. You're going to do it here?
RICHARD: You're going to do it here?
ETIENNE: Where else?
RICHARD: OK! I'll hold him still. He drops the knife Richard relaxes. It would be a lot easier to condemn our behavior if it hadn't been so
FRANCOISE: Just when you thought it was safe to go back in the water.
RICHARD: Just when you thought it was safe to go back in the water.
FRANCOISE: That's not funny.
RICHARD: Hey, relax, just a joke. What's wrong with you?
FRANCOISE: No, what's wrong with you? Why didn't you stop them moving Christo?
RICHARD: Francoise I just thought we ought to spend some time together. We haven't
FRANCOISE: I don't believe it. You really think it was alright to move him.
RICHARD: He was getting everyone down.
FRANCOISE: I don't know what has happened to you, Richard.
RICHARD: I like it here! That's what happened! So what's the problem? Richard calls after her sarcastically.
RICHARD: ( continuing ) We do still have something going don't we? So, it seemed that Francoise and I were finished. Under other circumstances
RICHARD: They're building a raft. It's nearly finished.
SAL: When did they get there?
RICHARD: I don't know. Sometime during all that shark shit.
SAL: Well you'll have to stop them.
RICHARD: They won't get beyond the DMZ.
SAL: The what?
RICHARD: The demilitarized zone, Sal.
SAL: Right. You call it what you want, Richard, just don't let them get this They won't. Believe me.
RICHARD: They won't. Believe me.
SAL: This is a particularly bad time, with Christo lying in that tent, it
RICHARD: He's still alive?
SAMMY: We are in dope heaven. There is no other explanation.
ZEPH: ( singing ) I smoke two joints in the morning. I smoke two joints at night. I smoke two Sammy and the others also notice, one by one. They too stand still, dumb
ZEPH: We're Americans. Tourists. But we will leave. We made a mistake. We go now. The farmers say nothing but advance and outflank the travelers, herding
SAMMY: We're Americans. Tourists. But we will leave. We made a mistake. We go now. The farmers say nothing but advance and outflank the travelers, herding
ZEPH: We're Americans. Tourists. But we will leave. We made a mistake. We go now. The farmers say nothing but advance and outflank the travelers, herding
ZEPH: ( continuing ) We go now. We leave in peace. Look we can pay. Here, American dollars. You All begin to plead desperately for their lives. One of the German girls suddenly breaks away and starts running in the One of the guards shoots at her repeatedly, missing. The others start shooting at the remaining three, cutting them down in a The German girl keeps on running, zigzagging as she goes. The farmers fire but miss. She reaches the place where Richard is hiding, couched down in the Startled by seeing him, she stops abruptly. Richard and the German girl stare into each other's eyes for a moment. Suddenly her chest explodes forwards as a single bullet rips through from She falls to the ground. Richard is spattered in her blood. He sits motionless, staring at her corpse.
SAL: They're dead.
RICHARD: They're dead.
SAL: All of them?
RICHARD: Yes, all of them. They disturbed the farmers.
SAL: I guess that means we don't need to worry about them any more.
RICHARD: I guess that means we don't need to worry about them any more.
SAL: Yeah. The only problem we have left is Francoise and Etienne. You knew they'd be killed.
RICHARD: You knew they'd be killed.
SAL: It's not the first time.
RICHARD: And Daffy?
SAL: Daffy. He saw it happen. Didn't he? Yea, he saw it happen. And now you
RICHARD: Daffy. He saw it happen. Didn't he? Yea, he saw it happen. And now you
SAL: Richard, if you're going to live here, you've got to get involved.
SAL: ( continuing ) Francoise. And Etienne. She stands up and walks away. Richard contemplates the knife.
FARMER: You draw maps! You bring people here! Why?
SAL: No, we don't. We bring no one.
FARMER: You are lying! You are bringing people here. Too many people! No, I promise, we keep it secret. We tell no one. Then who drew this? The farmers have gone. Sal lies injured on the floor. The inhabitants silently pass the map from one to the other. It reaches Bugs last. He studies it.
SAL: No, I promise, we keep it secret. We tell no one. Then who drew this? The farmers have gone. Sal lies injured on the floor. The inhabitants silently pass the map from one to the other. It reaches Bugs last. He studies it.
FARMER: Then who drew this? The farmers have gone. Sal lies injured on the floor. The inhabitants silently pass the map from one to the other. It reaches Bugs last. He studies it.
RICHARD: You have to leave. Do you understand? You have to leave right now. If you
ETIENNE: What about Christo?
RICHARD: There is nothing more you can do. I'll look after him.
FRANCOISE: Richard -
RICHARD: You don't have time to talk about this. You have to go now. ( continuing ) Leave him with me. His breathing is labored and irregular. Richard reaches forward. He pinches Christo's nose and covers his Christo's body struggles briefly and goes still. Richard relaxes his grip. He switches off the torch.
RICHARD: ( continuing ) Leave him with me. His breathing is labored and irregular. Richard reaches forward. He pinches Christo's nose and covers his Christo's body struggles briefly and goes still. Richard relaxes his grip. He switches off the torch.
ETIENNE: Richard, come one, get into the boat. ( continuing ) Richard can't help you now, French boy. Bugs releases Etienne who falls helpless to his knees. Bugs turns his attention to Francoise. She pulls the start cord and the Bugs holds one end of the mooring rope, pulling the boat towards him while
ETIENNE: ( continuing ) Richard can't help you now, French boy. Bugs releases Etienne who falls helpless to his knees. Bugs turns his attention to Francoise. She pulls the start cord and the Bugs holds one end of the mooring rope, pulling the boat towards him while
BUGS: Richard can't help you now, French boy. Bugs releases Etienne who falls helpless to his knees. Bugs turns his attention to Francoise. She pulls the start cord and the Bugs holds one end of the mooring rope, pulling the boat towards him while
