LOTTE: Sorry, hon. I didn't know Orrin Hatch was out of his pen. Good Lotte leans down and kisses Craig on the forehead.
CRAIG: Gotta run. Shipment of grub worms coming in first thing.
LOTTE: Gotta run. Shipment of grub worms coming in first thing.
CRAIG: Craig, listen, honey, I've been thinking. maybe you'd feel better if you got, you know, a job or We've been over this. Nobody's looking for a puppeteer in today's wintry economic climate.
LOTTE: Craig, listen, honey, I've been thinking. maybe you'd feel better if you got, you know, a job or We've been over this. Nobody's looking for a puppeteer in today's wintry economic climate.
CRAIG: We've been over this. Nobody's looking for a puppeteer in today's wintry economic climate.
LOTTE: Well, you know, maybe something else until this whole puppet thing turns The Great Mantini doesn't need a day Craig, everyone can't be Derek Mantini. Well, grub worms are waiting. Do me a favor?
CRAIG: ( bitterly ) The Great Mantini doesn't need a day ( sighs ) Craig, everyone can't be Derek Mantini. ( beat ) Well, grub worms are waiting. Do me a favor?
LOTTE: ( sighs ) Craig, everyone can't be Derek Mantini. ( beat ) Well, grub worms are waiting. Do me a favor?
CRAIG: Would you check in on Elijah? He seems to be a little under the weather this Which one is Elijah again?
LOTTE: Would you check in on Elijah? He seems to be a little under the weather this Which one is Elijah again?
CRAIG: Which one is Elijah again?
LOTTE: The monkey.
CRAIG: Yeah. Okay.
TV ANNOUNCER: The crowd is enthralled as Derek Mantini, arguably the greatest puppeteer in the history of the world, performs "The Belle of Amherst" with his 60 foot Emily Dickinson puppet, directed by the inimitable Charles Nelson Reilly. Charles Nelson Reilly floats by in a hot air balloon.
CRAIG: Gimmicky bastard. Craig switches off the TV. He comes across an ad for a female puppeteer to teach at a girls school. Craig rubs his chin in thought, then stands with great determination.
LOTTE: ( finally ) Is the trial date set?
CRAIG: May 11th.
LOTTE: Why'd you do it, Craig?
CRAIG: I'm a puppeteer. They drive in silence.
LOTTE: ( finally ) Why, Craig. why?
CRAIG: ( through fat lip ) I. puppeteer.
LOTTE: ( finally ) You know, maybe you should speak to someone about this.
WOMAN #1: Seven and a half, right?
CRAIG: Uh. yeah.
WOMAN #1: I'll take you through it. The man picks up a crowbar leaning in the corner. He watches the floor numbers light up in succession. After "7" and before "8", the man hits the emergency stop button. The elevator slams to a halt. The man pries open the doors with the crowbar. Revealed is a standard office building hallway, except that from floor to ceiling it is only about four feet high. Everything is scaled down accordingly. The number on the wall across from the elevator is 7 1/2.
WOMAN #1: Seven and a half.
CRAIG: Thank you. Craig climbs out onto the 7 1/2 floor.
FLORIS: Welcome to LesterCorp. May we meet your filing needs?
CRAIG: No, uh, my name is Craig Schwartz. I have an interview with Mr. Lester.
FLORIS: Please have a seat, Mr. Juarez.
CRAIG: I'm sorry, I'm afraid I have no idea what you're saying right now.
FLORIS: I'm sorry, I'm afraid I have no idea what you're saying right now.
CRAIG: I'm sorry, I'm afraid I have no idea what you're saying right now.
FLORIS: I'm sorry, I'm afraid I have no idea what you're saying right now.
CRAIG: My name is Schwartz.
FLORIS: Money, Miss Warts?
CRAIG: Forget it. Craig takes a seat next to the other applicants.
FLORIS: ( calling across the room ) Fork ah did? The intercom buzzes. Floris picks it up.
FLORIS: ( to Craig ) Mr. Juarez?
CRAIG: I said "yes."
FLORIS: I said "yes."
CRAIG: I said "yes."
FLORIS: You suggest what? I have no time for piddling suggestions from mumbling job applicants, my good man. Besides, Dr. Lester will see you now. I think that's what he said. Craig stands, opens Lester's door, and enters.
LESTER: Come in, Mr. Juarez. I'd stand, but, well, you know.
CRAIG: ( extending his hand ) Actually, my name is Craig Schwartz, Dr. Lester. Lester flips an intercom switch.
LESTER: No, it's okay, sir. Just a mixup with your secretary.
CRAIG: No, it's okay, sir. Just a mixup with your secretary.
LESTER: She's not my secretary. She's what they call an executive liaison, and I'm not banging her, if that's what you’re implying.
CRAIG: Not at all, Dr. Lester. I simply Tell me, Dr. Schwartz, what do you feel you can bring to LesterCorp?
LESTER: Tell me, Dr. Schwartz, what do you feel you can bring to LesterCorp?
CRAIG: Well, sir, I'm an excellent filer.
LESTER: ( crafty ) You think so, eh? Which comes first, L or. Glooph?
CRAIG: Glooph is not a letter, sir.
LESTER: Damn, you are good. I tried to trick you. Okay, put these in order. Lester hands Craig a bunch of index cards. Craig orders them with amazing speed and dexterity. Lester watches, eyes wide.
LESTER: Forget it.
LESTER: ( flips off switch ) Fine woman, Floris. I don't know how she puts up with this damn speech impediment of mine.
CRAIG: You don't have a speech impediment, Dr. Lester.
LESTER: Flattery will get you everywhere, my boy. But I'm afraid I have to trust Floris on this one. You see, she has her doctorate in speech impedimentology from Case Western. Perhaps you've read her memoirs, "I can't understand a word any of you are saying."
CRAIG: Pity, it tells it like it is. That's why the eastern, read Jewish, publishing establishment won't touch it. That's a quote from the book jacket. George Will, I think. I apologize if you can't understan a word I'm saying, Dr. Schwartz.
LESTER: Pity, it tells it like it is. That's why the eastern, read Jewish, publishing establishment won't touch it. That's a quote from the book jacket. George Will, I think. I apologize if you can't understan a word I'm saying, Dr. Schwartz.
CRAIG: No. I understand perfectly.
LESTER: ( choking up ) Thank you for being kind enough to lie. You see, I've been very lonely in my isolated tower of indecipherable speech. You're hired. Any questions?
CRAIG: Just one. Why is this floor so short?
LESTER: Low overhead, m'boy. We pass the savings on to you. But seriously, that's all covered in INT. ORIENTATION ROOM - DAY It's a small screening room with red velvet seats. There are a few people scattered about the squat theater. Craig is among them. He looks around the room and his eyes rest momentarily on Maxine. She is in her late 20's with close cropped black hair. Her eyes are opaque, her face expressionless, her countenance trance-like. She glances over at Craig, then turns back to the screen. The lights dim. A projector whirs and the screen is illuminated.
WENDY: Hello, Don.
DON: Hello. Wendy.
WENDY: Don, I was wondering, do you know why our workplace has such low It's an interesting story, Wendy. Many years ago in the late 1800's, James Mertin, an Irish ship captain looking to invest in the future of our great country, came to this town and decided to erect an office OLD FOOTAGE OF CONSTRUCTION CREW WORKING. DON ( CONT'D ) ( V.0. ) He would call this building the Mertin-Flemmer Building, after himself and someone else, who, local legend has it, was named Flemmer.
DON: It's an interesting story, Wendy. Many years ago in the late 1800's, James Mertin, an Irish ship captain looking to invest in the future of our great country, came to this town and decided to erect an office OLD FOOTAGE OF CONSTRUCTION CREW WORKING. DON ( CONT'D ) ( V.0. ) He would call this building the Mertin-Flemmer Building, after himself and someone else, who, local legend has it, was named Flemmer.
MERTIN: Enter ye, if ye dare enter. A tiny woman enters.
TINY WOMAN: Captain Mertin?
MERTIN: What want ye, girl child?
TINY WOMAN: I am not a child, Captain Mertin, but rather an adult lady of miniature I see. Well, it is not my fault that thou art tiny. So if it is charity yer after, then be gone with ye, ye foul demon.
MERTIN: ( taken aback ) I see. Well, it is not my fault that thou art tiny. So if it is charity yer after, then be gone with ye, ye foul demon.
TINY WOMAN: I am not asking for alms, but rather the ear of a kind man with a noble Aye. Speak then if ye must.
MERTIN: ( sighs ) Aye. Speak then if ye must.
TINY WOMAN: Captain Mertin, surely I am a God-fearing Christian woman like yourself, but alas, I am afraid that the world was not built with me in mind. Door knobs are too high, chairs are unwieldy, high-ceilinged rooms mock my stature. Nor am I a marrie lady, Captain. after all, who would marry a person of my diminutiveness? So I am forced to work for my few pennies a week as an optometrist. Why cannot there be a place for me to work safe and comfortable? Mertin wipes a tear from his eye.
MERTIN: Woman, your story moves me like n other. Me own sister was tiny and then died. Therefore, I shall make ye me wife. And I shall build a floor in my building, between the 7th and 8th, which will be scaled down, so from now on there shall be at least one place on God's green Earth that you and your accursed kind can live in peace.
DON: So that's the story of 7 1/2. Since the rents are considerably lower this floor has been adopted by businesses which for one reason or another are forced to cut corners After all. the overhead is low! Ha ha ha!
WENDY: Ha ha ha! TITLE: The End
CRAIG: Moving story.
MAXINE: Yes. Unfortunately it's bullshit. The real story of 7 1/2 is so evil that it could never be revealed to Americans raised on sitcoms and happy news anchors.
CRAIG: Is that true?
MAXINE: Well, truth is for suckers, isn't Listen. I'm Craig Schwartz, just starting out at LesterCorp.
CRAIG: Listen. I'm Craig Schwartz, just starting out at LesterCorp.
MAXINE: How dreary - to be - Somebody / How public - like a Frog / To tell one's name - the livelong June / To an admiring Bog!
CRAIG: ( proudly ) Emily Dickinson.
MAXINE: I wouldn't know. Maxine walks away.
PARROT: Shut up! Shut up! Shut up!
CRAIG: Shut up!
LOTTE: ( to Craig ) Sorry, honey. The dog continues to bark.
PARROT: Sorry honey. Sorry honey. An offscreen neighbor pounds the wall.
LOTTE: ( yelling ) Lotte grabs the parrot off her head and leaves the room.
LOTTE: Isn't that cute? I just taught her Adorable. What time are they supposed to be here?
CRAIG: Adorable. What time are they supposed to be here?
LOTTE: We have to make it an early night.
CRAIG: We have to make it an early night.
LOTTE: They'll understand. Besides I've got a morning appointment tomorrow with Elijah's shrink. We're getting to the bottom of this acid stomach.
CRAIG: ( not paying attention ) Some sort of childhood trauma, she thinks. Possible feelings of inadequacy as a chimp. Interesting, The doorbell rings. The dog barks. The parrot screams. The neighbor pounds on the wall.
LOTTE: Some sort of childhood trauma, she thinks. Possible feelings of inadequacy as a chimp. Interesting, The doorbell rings. The dog barks. The parrot screams. The neighbor pounds on the wall.
CRAIG: The doorbell rings. The dog barks. The parrot screams. The neighbor pounds on the wall.
PETER: Good food, Lotte.
LOTTE: Thanks. Craig helped, too, by the Vegetarian, right?
PETER: Vegetarian, right?
LOTTE: Yes. All vegetable. all the time.
PETER: There is another lull. Everyone eats.
CRAIG: No kidding, Peter.
GLORIA: That's great. It almost sounds like Like a storybook. like a fairy tale. It's really great. So Lotte, when you say all vegetable, do you mean all vegetable entire1y?
GLORIA: Lotte told me that Eskimos have a lot of words for snow.
PETER: How many?
GLORIA: Ten, I think.
PETER: I wonder why so many.
GLORIA: Because they have a lot of snow. Isn't that interesting?
FLORIS: You're good. Craig turns.
CRAIG: ( over-enunciating ) Thank you, Floris. Floris shrugs, shakes her head.
FLORIS: You're not like the other boys we've had here. Granted, I can't understand what you're saying either, but your soft palette resonates tremendously well and you never ever constrict your epiglottis.
CRAIG: I am a trained performer.
FLORIS: ( swooning ) Music to my ears! Whatever you said. Speak, speak, speak, my magnificent friend, speak!
CRAIG: Hello again. Craig fills her cup.
MAXINE: Yes, well.
CRAIG: You know, I've been thinking about what you said yesterday, about the orientation film being a cover-up. I think you're on to something.
MAXINE: And fifty other lines to get into a girl's pants.
CRAIG: No, really.
MAXINE: You know, if you ever got me, you wouldn't have a clue what to do with me. That's the thing, Romeo. Maxine walks away.
LOTTE: New puppet? Craig is surprised, caught.
CRAIG: Yeah, just an idea I had.
LOTTE: She's very beautiful.
CRAIG: ( shrugging ) Just an idea I had. Craig hangs the puppet, stands, and switches off the light.
CRAIG: ( quietly ) I would too know what to do with you.
FLORIS: Oh, what magic those fingers could work on the right “cabinet.” Alphabetize me, baby. And don't forget, I comes before U. Floris laughs long and hard. Too long and too hard.
CRAIG: Floris, you're very nice, but I'm afraid I’m in love with somebody I'm afraid I. have no idea what you are saying. you bastard! Floris runs from the room. Lester pokes his head out from behind the cabinet.
FLORIS: ( upset ) I'm afraid I. have no idea what you are saying. you bastard! Floris runs from the room. Lester pokes his head out from behind the cabinet.
LESTER: Don't toy with Floris, Schwartz. Why, if I were eighty years younger, I'd box your ears.
CRAIG: I wasn't toying with her, sir. I was just. How old are you?
LESTER: One hundred and five. Carrot juice. Lot's of it. I swear, it's almost not worth it. I piss orange. Oh, and I, have to piss sitting down. like a godamn girly. every fifteen minutes. But nobody wants to die, I'll keep that in mind, sir.
CRAIG: I'll keep that in mind, sir.
LESTER: No sir-e-bob, I don't die. But what I do is get older, wrinkled like a former plum that's become the wrinkled prune you see before you. Oh, to be a young man again, maybe then Floris would care for me.
CRAIG: The elderly have so much to offer, sir. They are our link with history.
LESTER: I don't want to be your godamn link, damn you. I want to feel Floris' naked thighs against my own. I want to know passion. I want my body to inspire lust in that beautiful, complex woman. I want her to shiver in a spasm of ecstasy when I penetrate her. Oh, God, the agony of the flesh, Schwartz.
CRAIG: Dr. Lester, while I am flattered that you share your feelings with me, I believe perhaps the workplace is not the most suitable environment for this type of discussion.
LESTER: All right. Meet me at the Juicy-Juice Juice Bar after work today and I'll spill my goddamn guts for you. Lester exits.
CRAIG: CUT TO: INT. HALLWAY 7 1/2 FLOOR - DAY Craig squats next to a payphone.
CRAIG: ( into phone ) I won't be late. I just have to listen to Lester's sexual fantasies and drink carrot juice for a little while. It's a job thing. Maxine walks by. Craig grabs her arm, signals for her to wait a minute. She waits.
MAXINE: I just wanted to say “hi.” Did you know I still don't know your name or where you work?
CRAIG: I just wanted to say “hi.” Did you know I still don't know your name or where you work?
MAXINE: How about this, if I can guess your first name within three tries, you have to come out for a drink with me Why not?
CRAIG: How about this, if I can guess your first name within three tries, you have to come out for a drink with me Why not?
MAXINE: Why not?
CRAIG: ( watches her face as he guesses ) Buuuhhppaahhhhnnn. . . . . Muhhhahhhhh. . . . . ahhhnnnaaa. . nollltuuukkkaaaaralllll. . . tashabararassssssuuuuusaaaaaaa. . . Mwaaaaaa. . . . .Mahhhhhkkkkk. . . sssseeeeeen. Maxine?
MAXINE: Who told you?
CRAIG: I'm right?
MAXINE: Who told you?
CRAIG: That's incredible! Nobody told me! I swear! It's kismet. Maxine! It's a beautiful name. There's a psychic connection. Don't you see? It was meant to be! Maxine! Maxine! Maxine! I will shout it from the Somebody told you.
MAXINE: Somebody told you.
CRAIG: Oh, Maxine, nobody told me. Maxine, Maxine. It just came out of me like a song, Maxine. A beautiful crazy, song, Maxine. Maxine. Maxine!
MAXINE: I am dubious, but I don't welsh. Meet me at The Stuck Pig. Seven o'clock. You're late, I walk. So help me, if I find out you cheated.
CRAIG: ( in heaven ) Craig walks down the hall. A tiny smile flits across Maxine's face.
LESTER: Imagine a room full of women. Nubile, blonde, wet with desire, Schwartz. A harem, if you will. Me in leather. A harness, if you like. I am the object of this desire, and all eyes are on me as I speak. “Ladies,” I begin. “I am the love god, Eros. I intoxicate you. My spunk is to you manna from Dr. Lester, it's been really fascinating, but I'm afraid I have to get home to my wife now.
CRAIG: ( standing ) Dr. Lester, it's been really fascinating, but I'm afraid I have to get home to my wife now.
LESTER: Wife, huh? I'd love to meet her, Shall we say dinner on Friday. Just the two of us? You can come too if you like, That's sounds fine, sir. Gotta Craig hurries to the door. Lester downs Craig's juice, signals the waiter for more.
CRAIG: Shall we say dinner on Friday. Just the two of us? You can come too if you like, That's sounds fine, sir. Gotta Craig hurries to the door. Lester downs Craig's juice, signals the waiter for more.
LESTER: Shall we say dinner on Friday. Just the two of us? You can come too if you like, That's sounds fine, sir. Gotta Craig hurries to the door. Lester downs Craig's juice, signals the waiter for more.
CRAIG: ( checking watch ) That's sounds fine, sir. Gotta Craig hurries to the door. Lester downs Craig's juice, signals the waiter for more.
CRAIG: Made it. Maxine. Maxine, Maxine, Buy you a drink, Maxine?
MAXINE: Buy you a drink, Maxine?
CRAIG: Buy you a drink, Maxine?
MAXINE: You married?
CRAIG: Yeah. But enough about me. Maxine laughs. The bartender approaches.
MAXINE: ( to bartender ) The usual, Barry.
CRAIG: ( to bartender ) I'll have, like, a beer. Like a Budweiser, or something. The bartender walks away.
MAXINE: My tits?
CRAIG: No, no, it's your energy or your attitude or the way you carry yourself or.
MAXINE: Christ, you're not a fag are you? Because I don't want to be wasting my time. The drinks arrive. Maxine's is in an enormous fishbowl of a glass. It's bright blue, with fruit and marshmallows swimming in it. Paper umbrellas stick out of it, an plastic monkeys hang from the rim.
CRAIG: That's the usual?
MAXINE: Don’t let the girly shit fool you. It'd blow your shorts off. Maxine downs it like a shot of whiskey. She pushes the empty glass to the bartender.
CRAIG: I’m not a homosexual. I just like women for more than their bodies. I guess you could say I'm the new American male.
MAXINE: You're a fag or a liar.
CRAIG: ( backpedaling ) I mean, I am really attracted to ( mocking ) I mean, I am really attracted to you. Jesus, you are a fag. We can share recipes, if you like, Darlene. Maxine gets up.
MAXINE: ( mocking ) I mean, I am really attracted to you. Jesus, you are a fag. We can share recipes, if you like, Darlene. Maxine gets up.
CRAIG: ( at a loss ) No, wait! I like your tits. ( beat ) I love your tits. I want to fuck ( sitting ) Good. Now we're getting somewhere. ( beat ) Not a chance. Maxine's second drink comes. She downs it, pushes the glass toward the bartender.
MAXINE: ( sitting ) Good. Now we're getting somewhere. ( beat ) Not a chance. Maxine's second drink comes. She downs it, pushes the glass toward the bartender.
CRAIG: Well, I'm a puppeteer. The bartender comes back with Maxine's drink.
MAXINE: ( to bartender ) INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT Lotte is combing Elijah. Craig enters.
CRAIG: ( nervous, talking too much ) Sorry, I'm so late. Lester just wouldn't let me go. We’re supposed to have dinner with him on Friday. I can get us out of it if you want. He's really amazing, this insane old lech. It's actually sort of amusing when you get past just how disgusting it is. There is a silence. Lotte continues to comb out Elijah. Did you eat?
LOTTE: ( nervous, talking too much ) Sorry, I'm so late. Lester just wouldn't let me go. We’re supposed to have dinner with him on Friday. I can get us out of it if you want. He's really amazing, this insane old lech. It's actually sort of amusing when you get past just how disgusting it is. There is a silence. Lotte continues to comb out Elijah. Did you eat?
CRAIG: ( nervous, talking too much ) Sorry, I'm so late. Lester just wouldn't let me go. We’re supposed to have dinner with him on Friday. I can get us out of it if you want. He's really amazing, this insane old lech. It's actually sort of amusing when you get past just how disgusting it is. There is a silence. Lotte continues to comb out Elijah. Did you eat?
LOTTE: Did you eat?
CRAIG: Nah. I'm not hungry. I'm sorry I didn't call. It was just, you know, hard to get away.
LOTTE: I was worried.
CRAIG: I'm sorry. How was your evening?
LOTTE: Tom-Tom's puncture wound is The ferret?
CRAIG: The ferret?
LOTTE: The iguana.
CRAIG: I dressed the wound. Then I've just been feeding everyone, putting everyone to bed.
LOTTE: I dressed the wound. Then I've just been feeding everyone, putting everyone to bed.
CRAIG: Yeah. You want a beer?
LOTTE: No thanks. I'm going to turn in.
CRAIG: All right. I'll be in my workshop for a little while. I'll be in in a little while. I need to unwind a I'll be in soon. A little while.
LOTTE: Lotte exits.
CRAIG: ( as Maxine, fascinated ) Tell me, Craig, why do you love ( as Craig ) Well, Maxine, I'm not sure exactly. Perhaps it's the idea of becoming someone else for a little while. Being inside another skin. Moving differently, thinking differently, feeling differently. ( as Maxine ) Interesting. Would you like to be inside my skin, Craig? Think what I think? Feel what I feel? ( as Craig ) More than anything. Maxine. ( as Maxine ) It's good in here, Craig. Better than your wildest dreams. The puppets kiss.
CRAIG: You're not someone I could get interested in. Craig. You play with dolls.
MAXINE: You're not someone I could get interested in. Craig. You play with dolls.
CRAIG: ( rehearsed ) Puppets. Maxine. It's the idea of being inside someone else, feeling what they feel, seeing what they see.
MAXINE: Please, let me explain. Craig grabs Maxine's hand and drags her into an empty INT. EMPTY OFFICE - DAY Craig pulls Maxine in closes the door.
CRAIG: Please, let me explain. Craig grabs Maxine's hand and drags her into an empty INT. EMPTY OFFICE - DAY Craig pulls Maxine in closes the door.
CRAIG: It's just, and I've never done this before, Maxine, but it's just that I feel something for you. I've never felt this before for anyone, not even my wife. My future is with you, Maxine.
MAXINE: You might want to check those tarot cards one more time. Maxine heads for the door. Craig sits on a box. He puts his head in his hands and sighs. Across the room he notices a very small door with a two by four nailed across Another evil secret of the 7 1/2 Craig pries the two-by-four off and opens the door. It's a dark and wet membranous tunnel inside.
CRAIG: Another evil secret of the 7 1/2 Craig pries the two-by-four off and opens the door. It's a dark and wet membranous tunnel inside.
CRAIG: Holy shit. Maxine is gonna love Craig lets go of the door and it slams shut.
LESTER: Craig rushes in.
CRAIG: Dr. Lester. . .
LESTER: Ah, Craig. Just the fellow I wanted to see. Juicer! Easy as pie. Just keep your fingers clear of the blade, and never, never use it while bathing in a tub full of water.
CRAIG: Dr. Lester, I have a question. I was in that vacant office down the hall and I stumbled upon a little door Ah. yes, the little door. There is a short film on the little door in the orientation room in exactly two minutes. If you hurry, you'll just make it.
LESTER: Ah. yes, the little door. There is a short film on the little door in the orientation room in exactly two minutes. If you hurry, you'll just make it.
CRAIG: Thank you, sir. Craig exits. Lester waits a moment. then dials the phone.
LESTER: Put up reel 752.
DON: Hi. Wendy! What're you up to in this vacant office.
WENDY: Well, Don, I peeked in here, even though I know it's against floor policy. and I discovered that there's a little tiny door in here. Isn't it cute? It's almost like a little dolly's door. I wonder what it’s for.
DON: ( laughing ) That's right, Wendy, it is against floor policy, but as long as you're here, let me tell you what I know about our cute little door friend. Many years ago, this very office was occupied by a kindly old watchmaker named Mr. White.
WHITE: Hmmm. I must have a small store room to store my merchandise when I am through working on it. I know, I will build a tiny store room. How cute!
WENDY: Wow! That's some story, Don.
DON: Truth is stranger than fiction, They laugh.
CRAIG: Craig exits. The usher mumbles something into a INT. VACANT ROOM - DAY Craig opens the little door and climbs into the membranous hallway. The door slams shut behind him.
MAXINE: The puppeteer told me he loves me I know. I can't think of anything more pathetic.
CABBIE: Say, aren't you that actor guy?
MALKOVICH: John Makel.
CABBIE: John Makel.
CABBIE: MALKOVICH ( V.0. ) CRAIG ( V.0. )
CABBIE: CRAIG ( V.0. )
CABBIE: Yeah. I liked you in that one movie.
CABBIE: The one where you're that jewel I never played a jewel thief.
MALKOVICH: I never played a jewel thief.
CABBIE: Who am I thinking of?
MALKOVICH: I don't know.
CABBIE: I'm pretty sure it was you. Hey, could I get your autograph now? It's for .. oh, what the hell, it's for me! I'm your biggest Yeah, okay. The cabbie hands a pad back over the seat. Malkovich reaches for it. There is a slurping sound.
MALKOVICH: Yeah, okay. The cabbie hands a pad back over the seat. Malkovich reaches for it. There is a slurping sound.
MAXINE: Absolutely, doll. I'm just about to close up here. Craig walks in disheveled and exhausted. Maxine sees him, keeps talking.
CRAIG: Don't you want to know what happened to me?
MAXINE: ( considers ) Maxine heads for the door. Craig grabs her arm.
CRAIG: This is important!
MAXINE: ( looking at his hand on her arm ) It better be. Craig sits Maxine down in a chair, lets go of her arm.
CRAIG: There's a tiny door in that empty office. It's a portal, Maxine. It takes you inside John Malkovich. You see the world through John Malkovich's eyes, then, after about fifteen minutes, you're spit out into a ditch on the side of The New Jersey Sounds delightful. Who the fuck is John Malkovich?
MAXINE: Sounds delightful. Who the fuck is John Malkovich?
CRAIG: He's an actor. One of the great American actors of the 20th century.
MAXINE: What's he been in?
CRAIG: Lots of things. He's very well respected. That jewel thief movie, for example. The point is that this is a very odd thing, supernatural, for lack of a better word. It raises all sorts of philosophical questions about the nature of self, about the existence of the soul. Am I me? Is Malkovich Malkovich? Was the Buddha right, is duality an illusion? Do you see what a can of worms this portal is? I don't think I can go on living my life as I have lived it. There's only one thing to do. Let's get married right away.
MAXINE: Is this Malkovich fellow appealing?
CRAIG: Yes, of course. He's a celebrity.
MAXINE: Good. We'll sell tickets.
CRAIG: Tickets to Malkovich?
MAXINE: Exactly. Two hundred dollars a pop.
CRAIG: But there's something profound here, Maxine, we can't exploit it.
MAXINE: Fine. I'll do it myself. I was going to offer a partnership to you, but this way it's more money for me.
CRAIG: You wanted to be partners with me?
MAXINE: ( bored ) Sure. It'd be fun.
CRAIG: ( pleased ) ( then: ) But, Maxine, can of worms! End of the world! Illusory nature of I'll protect you, Dollface. Maxine reaches over and squeezes his lips affectionately between her thumb and forefinger.
MAXINE: I'll protect you, Dollface. Maxine reaches over and squeezes his lips affectionately between her thumb and forefinger.
CRAIG: ( in love ) Oh. Maxine.
LOTTE: Don't be ridiculous. There is no such thing as a portal into someone else's Brain. soul, I'm telling you, Lotte. I was right inside him looking out. We're going to be rich.
CRAIG: Brain. soul, I'm telling you, Lotte. I was right inside him looking out. We're going to be rich.
LOTTE: I want to try.
CRAIG: I want to be John Malkovich. Tomorrow morning. Plus I'd like to meet this partner of yours.
LOTTE: I want to be John Malkovich. Tomorrow morning. Plus I'd like to meet this partner of yours.
CRAIG: ( nervously ) Well, you know we're going to be very busy tomorrow. I'll tell you what. Let's do it tonight. Right Yeah. We'll do it right now. On the way to Lester's house.
LOTTE: Yeah. We'll do it right now. On the way to Lester's house.
CRAIG: Yeah. We'll do it right now. On the way to Lester's house.
CRAIG: I'll meet you on the turnpike.
LOTTE: I'm scared. The door slams shut.
CRAIG: Me too, babe. Craig hurries out the door.
LOTTE: I have to go back.
CRAIG: Okay. Maybe tomorrow.
LOTTE: I have to go back now.
CRAIG: We'll talk about it in the car. Craig helps Lotte up and toward the car.
LOTTE: I have to go back, Craig. Being inside did something to me. All of a sudden everything made sense. I knew who I was.
CRAIG: You weren't you. You were John I was, wasn't I? I was John fucking Malkovich! Take me back, Craig.
LOTTE: ( tickled ) I was, wasn't I? ( yelling out the window ) I was John fucking Malkovich! ( laughs, then intensely ) Take me back, Craig.
CRAIG: Tomorrow. We're late for Lester.
LESTER: Tell me, Lotte, can you understand a word I'm saying?
LOTTE: Yes, of course, Dr. Lester.
LESTER: Oh, be still my heart.
LOTTE: Dr. Lester, would you point me toward the restroom?
LESTER: With immense pleasure, my dear. Down that hall, ninth door on the left. Watch the step down. It's sunken, you know. Lotte smiles, and heads down the hall.
CRAIG: Dr. Lester.
LESTER: More beet-spinach juice, my friend?
CRAIG: No thank you sir. It's delicious, though. I just wanted to thank you for the opportunity to work at LesterCorp, but I'm afraid I'm going to have to tender my resignation effectively immediately.
LESTER: I see. Are you unhappy at our little No sir, not at all. It's just that I'm going to open my own business And what sort of business will this be? If you don't mind my asking.
CRAIG: No sir, not at all. It's just that I'm going to open my own business And what sort of business will this be? If you don't mind my asking.
LESTER: And what sort of business will this be? If you don't mind my asking.
CRAIG: Uh, import-export. Olive oil. Right on 7 1/2 actually. In the vacant office. So we'll still be seeing each other.
LESTER: The vacant office. I see. Olive oil. Interesting. Be warned, Schwartz, there are certain “doors” which should never be opened.
CRAIG: My kingdom for your portal, Maxine.
MAXINE: Okay. Here it is. Ever want to be someone else? Now you can. No kidding. Only two hundred dollars for fifteen minutes. Visit J.M. Inc., Mertin-Flemmer Building. etc., etc.
CRAIG: Sounds good. Oblique but intriguing. Phone it in. Maxine dials the phone. Lotte enters.
CRAIG: Lotte! Why aren't you at the pet Fuck pets. Is this your partner? I had to come back and do the Malkovich ride again. Fuck everything else. Is this her?
LOTTE: Fuck pets. Is this your partner? I had to come back and do the Malkovich ride again. Fuck everything else. Is this her?
MAXINE: ( into phone ) Yes, hello, I wanted to place an ad. ( to Lotte ) Hi, are you Craig's wife?
LOTTE: Yes, Hi.
CRAIG: Lotte, Maxine. Maxine, Lotte. Lotte and Maxine shake hands.
LOTTE: Hi. Have you done Malkovich yet?
MAXINE: Hi, uh. Hi. I wanted to place an ad. Yes. "Ever want to be someone else?" No, that's the ad, but let's talk about you in a minute. "Ever want to be someone else? Now you can. No kidding."
CRAIG: ( to Lotte ) Why aren't you at work?
LOTTE: I've been going over and over my experience last night. It was amazing. I've decided I'm a transsexual. Isn't that the craziest thing?
CRAIG: What, are you nuts? That's Oprah Everything felt right for the first time. I need to go back to make sure, then if the feeling is still there. I'm going to speak to Dr. Feldman about sexual reassignment surgery.
LOTTE: Everything felt right for the first time. I need to go back to make sure, then if the feeling is still there. I'm going to speak to Dr. Feldman about sexual reassignment surgery.
CRAIG: This is absurd. Besides Feldman's an allergist. If you're going to do something, do it right. CRAIG ( cont'd ) It's just the thrill of seeing through someone else's eyes, sweetie. It'll Don't stand in the way of my actualization as a man, Craig.
LOTTE: Don't stand in the way of my actualization as a man, Craig.
MAXINE: ( hanging up the phone ) Let her go, Craig. I mean “him."
CRAIG: ( anything for Maxine ) Yeah, okay. ( opens the portal door ) I'll pick you up. Lotte enters. Craig closes the door. stands there.
MAXINE: You better hurry. Traffic. Maxine tosses Craig his car keys. He heads out the door. Maxine dials the phone.
MALKOVICH: ( reading aloud ) So you believe in God. you got something for it? You worked for all the capitalists. You harvested the fruit from your labor? You got LOTTE ( V.0. ) What raw, animal power!
MALKOVICH: But the past comforts you? The present smiles on you, yes? The phone rings. Malkovich puts down the script, and picks up the phone.
MALKOVICH: Who's calling?
MALKOVICH: How'd you get this number?
MALKOVICH: Listen, this is not amusing. Please don't call here any. MAXINE ( 0.S. ) ( giggling ) Ooh, such authority! NY nipples are at attention, General Malkovich, sir. So I'll be at Bernardo's tonight at eight. Please, please meet me there. I just adored you in that jewel thief Malkovich hangs up the phone.
CRAIG: How was it?
LOTTE: I have to go back tonight. At eight Don't crowd me, Craig.
CRAIG: Don't crowd me, Craig.
LOTTE: Don't crowd me, Craig.
GUY: Excuse me, are you John Malkovich?
MALKOVICH: Wow. You were really great in that movie where you played that retard.
GUY: Wow. You were really great in that movie where you played that retard.
MALKOVICH: Thank you very much.
GUY: I just wanted to tell you that. And say thank you. I have a cousin that's a retard, so, as you can imagine, it means a lot to me to see retards portrayed on the silver screen so The guy walks away. Malkovich scans the room. Maxine enters the restaurant. We see her, but Malkovich doesn't single her out of the crowd. She looks around.
MAXINE: Hi. I'm so glad you decided to come. I'm Maxine. Maxine holds out her hand. She is charming. Malkovich takes her hand.
MALKOVICH: I'm John. I didn't think I was going to come, but I felt oddly compelled. I have to admit I was a bit intrigued by your voice.
MAXINE: And the funny thing is. Mr. Malkovich, my voice is probably the least intriguing thing about me.
MALKOVICH: Can I get you a drink?
MAXINE: Whatever you're having.
CRAIG: So how was it? What was he doing?
LOTTE: Oh, you know, not a lot. Just hanging around his apartment. I think he must be a lonely man.
CRAIG: You see, men can feel unfulfilled, too. I'm glad you're realizing that. You shouldn't be so quick to assume that switching bodies would be the answer to all your problems.
LOTTE: You're right. You know I was thinking that we should have Maxine over for dinner. Since you two are partners and all. It might be a nice gesture.
CRAIG: I don't know. There's some tension between us. I'd hate to expose you to It'll be okay. I'll fix my lasagna. We’ll smoke a joint. Tensions will melt away.
LOTTE: It'll be okay. I'll fix my lasagna. We’ll smoke a joint. Tensions will melt away.
LOTTE: ( to Maxine ) Did you know that Eskimos have not one, but fifty words for snow. It's because they have so much of it.
CRAIG: After dinner I'll show you my puppets.
MAXINE: After that I'll introduce you to my favorite monkey, Elijah. He's got an ulcer, due to a suppressed childhood trauma. But we're getting to the bottom of it. There is another silence.
LOTTE: After that I'll introduce you to my favorite monkey, Elijah. He's got an ulcer, due to a suppressed childhood trauma. But we're getting to the bottom of it. There is another silence.
MAXINE: ( to no one in particular ) The way I see it, the world is divide into those go after what they want and those who don't. The passionate ones, the ones who go after what they want, may not get what they want, but they remain vital, in touch with themselves, and when they lie on their deathbeds, they have few regrets. The ones who don't go after what they want. well, who gives a shit about them anyway? Maxine laughs. There is another silence. Suddenly, at the same moment, both Craig and Lotte lunge for Maxine and start kissing her passionately about the face and neck. They stop just as suddenly and look at each other.
CRAIG: Lotte looks away.
MAXINE: Craig, I just don't find you attractive. And, Lotte, I'm smitten with you, but only when you're in Malkovich. When I looked into his eyes last night, I could feel you peering out. Behind the stubble and the too-prominent brow and the male pattern baldness, I sensed your feminine longing peering out, and it just slew me.
CRAIG: ( disgusted ) My God. Lotte strokes Maxine's face. Craig clears dishes from the ( to Lotte, removing her hand ) Only to John, sweetie. I'm sorry. ( gets up ) Thanks for a wonderful dinner. ( walks past kitchen. to Craig ) No hard feelings, partner. Maxine exits. Craig and Lotte look at each other.
MAXINE: ( to Lotte, removing her hand ) Only to John, sweetie. I'm sorry. ( gets up ) Thanks for a wonderful dinner. ( walks past kitchen. to Craig ) No hard feelings, partner. Maxine exits. Craig and Lotte look at each other.
LOTTE: I want a divorce.
CRAIG: ( a little too urgently ) Come in! Erroll, a sad, fat young man enters meekly.
ERROLL: Hello, I'm here about the ad.
CRAIG: Please, have a seat. Erroll sits in a chair in front of Craig's desk. He glances nervously over at Maxine.
ERROLL: When you say, I can be somebody else, what do you mean exactly?
CRAIG: Exactly that. We can put you inside someone else's body for fifteen minutes.
ERROLL: Oh, this is just the medical breakthrough I've been waiting for. Are their any side effects? Please say no! Please say no!
MAXINE: Long term psychic or physiological No. Don't be an ass.
ERROLL: Long term psychic or physiological No. Don't be an ass.
MAXINE: No. Don't be an ass.
ERROLL: Can I be anyone I want?
MAXINE: You can be John Malkovich.
ERROLL: Well that's perfect. My second choice. Ah, this is wonderful. Too good to be true! You see, I'm a sad man. Sad and fat and alone. Oh, I've tried all the diets, my friends. Lived for a year on nothing but imitation mayonnaise. Did it work? You be the judge. But Malkovich! King of New York! Man about town! Most eligible bachelor! Bon Vivant! The Schopenhauer of the 20th century! Thin man extraordinaire!
MAXINE: Two hundred dollars, please.
ERROLL: Yes. Yes. A thousand times, yes! Erroll takes out his wallet.
ERROLL: Oh, thank you! Thank you! Thousand times, thank you!
CRAIG: ( gasping for air ) Tell your friends.
ERROLL: Oh, I will, and I have many, many friends and associates, my friend. All, by the way, in Overeaters Anonymous. All of them fat and alone like me, all of them dream of being someone else, all of them with John Malkovich as their second choice!
CRAIG: This is amazing! We're gonna be rich!
MAXINE: So unbolt the fucking door, Einstein. Craig unlocks the door. Lester steps in, closes the door behind him, locks it.
LESTER: You're making a big mistake, Schwartz. Dr. Lester, I don't know what you're talking about.
CRAIG: Dr. Lester, I don't know what you're talking about.
LESTER: There are rules, boy, procedures, etiquette. This is not a toy. I've been waiting seventy years to utilize this room, grooming myself, quietly setting the stage, performing ablutions, paying tribute, seeing all his motion pictures again and again. Worshipping, Schwartz, worshipping You're insane.
CRAIG: You're insane.
LESTER: I am not alone. There are others. We are legion. You will pay for this blasphemy. You will pay dearly. Lester exits. Craig looks at Maxine. There is a moment of tension. Finally:
MAXINE: Craig opens the door. The first few fat people move noisily into the room.
LESTER: May I have your attention, please. We have a new disciple among us tonight.
LESTER: She is the wife of Schwartz. A stunned hush falls over the group.
LOTTE: ( apologetically ) I'm getting divorced.
LESTER: No you mustn't, my child.
LOTTE: But why, Son of Malkovich?
LESTER: We need you on the inside, my child. To report on his comings and goings, and if need be, to. destroy him. .for lack of a better word.
LOTTE: What are you doing?
CRAIG: I'm moving. Remember? What's with the hooded cloak?
LOTTE: Nothing. Don't go, Craig. I've been thinking. Let's try to work this out. We've got so much history.
CRAIG: ( still packing ) You should feed your animals. They're looking peaked.
LOTTE: I'm getting rid of the fucking I'm getting rid of the animals. I've lost interest. Besides, they're standing between you and me.
CRAIG: I'm getting rid of the animals. I've lost interest. Besides, they're standing between you and me.
LOTTE: I'm getting rid of the animals. I've lost interest. Besides, they're standing between you and me.
CRAIG: No they're not.
LOTTE: You've always hated the animals.
CRAIG: You've always loved the animals.
LOTTE: I'm giving them up. I've changed. I've found a new focus.
CRAIG: What's that?
LOTTE: ( beat ) Us, of course. Craig looks up from his packing. He and Lotte stare at each other for a long while.
CRAIG: ( tenderly ) Oh, Lot. They hug.
LOTTE: Fuck Maxine.
CRAIG: We wish. They look at each other and laugh, them fall back into the embrace. They both get faraway looks in their eyes.
MAXINE: LOTTE ( O.S. )
MAXINE: LOTTE ( O.S. ) Maxine checks her alarm clock. The time is 3:11 AM.
MAXINE: Thanks so much for coming over.
MALKOVICH: Oh, I'm really glad you called. Maxine gestures for him to enter. As Malkovich passes by her, she checks the wall clock. The time is 3:50.
MAXINE: So, do you enjoy being an actor?
MALKOVICH: Oh sure. It's very rewarding. The digital clock on the VCR clicks over to 4:11 AM. Maxine's look softens, and she kisses Malkovich hard on the lips. He seems surprised, but quickly warms to it. We shift top Malkovich's POV as Maxine begins to unbutton Malkovich's shirt.
MAXINE: I love you, Lotte.
MALKOVICH: ( stopping ) I'm sorry, did you just call me Do you mind?
MAXINE: Do you mind?
MALKOVICH: ( thinking ) No, I guess not. I'm an actor. They get back to it.
MAXINE: Oh, my sweet, beautiful Lotte.
MALKOVICH: ( thinks he's playing along ) Yes, Maxine, yes.
CRAIG: You were him last night, weren't you?
LOTTE: ( quietly ) And he was with her.
CRAIG: And he was with her.
LOTTE: We love her, Craig. I'm sorry.
CRAIG: Me and John.
LOTTE: Me and John.
CRAIG: Don't forget me.
LOTTE: Well, you have the Maxine action figure to play with. Craig looks down at his coffee.
CRAIG: Life is confusing, isn't it?
LOTTE: Sometimes we're forced to make hard decisions. I'd like for us to stay together, Craig. You know, platonically, if that's possible. I truly value our friendship.
CRAIG: I feel that somehow my parents never prepared me to make this particular decision. Not that I blame them. How could they know? Today's world is so No. I have to go away now. I'm sorry, Lotte. I'm so sorry.
MAXINE: You're late.
CRAIG: Are you torturing me on purpose?
MAXINE: ( matter of fact ) I've fallen in love.
CRAIG: I don't think so. I've fallen in love. This is what people who've fallen in love look like.
MAXINE: You picked the unrequited variety. Very bad for the skin.
CRAIG: You're evil, Maxine.
MAXINE: Do you have any idea what its like to have two people look at you with total lust and devotion through the same pair of eyes? No I don't suppose you would. It's quite a thrill, Craig. Craig turns and walks out the door.
LESTER: ( depressing switch ) Yes, my dear?
LESTER: Thank you, Floris.
LESTER: ( pressing line 2 ) Good morning, Lotte!
LOTTE: I blew it, Dr. Lester.
LESTER: You followed your heart, my child, and that is not necessarily a bad But now we've lost access to Craig.
LOTTE: But now we've lost access to Craig.
LESTER: ( laughs ) My child, I don't think its a great mystery what Craig's up to.
LOTTE: I'm your Goddamn wife. Once you vowed to cherish me forever. Now you hold a gun to my head?
CRAIG: Yeah, well welcome to the nineties.
LOTTE: Suck my dick!
CRAIG: ( slapping her ) Shut up! Lotte is stunned. She feels the muzzle against her forehead. She shuts up. Keeping the gun trained on Lotte, Craig dials the phone. He hands the receiver to her. He holds his ear to the receiver also.
LOTTE: ( to Craig ) You bastard. Craig cocks the pistol.
LOTTE: ( looking at Craig ) I have to see you.
CRAIG: ( sotto ) Tell her, what the hell, close early today, live dangerously.
LOTTE: What the hell, darling. Close early today, live dangerously.
LOTTE: ( screaming ) Help! He's locking me in a cage! Craig slaps Lotte hard. She looks at him, almost sadly.
NEIGHBOR: Shut up!
PARROT: Shut up!
CRAIG: Lesson number one: Be careful what you teach your parrot. Craig tapes Lotte's mouth, ties her hands and feet. Elijah watches him tie her. He becomes somewhat agitated, and holds his stomach.
MALKOVICH: Tommy, can I take fifteen?
MAXINE: Oh, Lotte. Oh, sweetie. We now watch the scene from Malkovich's POV.
MALKOVICH: CRAIG ( V.O. )
CRAIG: You're glowing again.
MAXINE: A girl has a right to glow if she wants. It's in the fucking Maxine sits. Craig smiles to himself.
CRAIG: It was lovely being you being Malkovich, my dear. I'd never seen the passionate side of sweet Maxine before, or her actual tits for that matter. If only, I've been thinking to myself, if only I could actually feel what Malkovich feels, rather than just see what he sees. And then, dare I say it, if only I could control his arms, his legs, his pelvis, and make them do my bidding.
LOTTE: It'll never happen, fuckface.
CRAIG: Ah, but you're forgetting one thing, What's that?
LOTTE: What's that?
CRAIG: I'm a puppeteer. Craig picks up the phone and dials. He smiles as he holds the receiver up to Lotte's face.
MAXINE: Lotte, this is so good.
MALKOVICH: Holy shit, yes!
MALKOVICH: Holy shit! He said what I said!
MAXINE: Lotte? Is that you?
MALKOVICH: Yes, yes, sweetheart, yes! What the fuck is going on? I'm not talking. This is not me!
MAXINE: Oh, Lotte. Maxine kisses Malkovich hard on the lips. There is a sucking sound.
MALKOVICH: Something was making me talk. Some Goddamn thing was making me move. I gotta get out of here.
MAXINE: Oh, Dollface, it was just your passion for me taking hold.
MALKOVICH: No, Dollface, I know what my passion taking hold feels like. I gotta go. He leaves. Maxine falls back on the couch and sighs INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT A wet, mess Craig sits next to Lotte's cage. Lotte is bound and gagged.
CRAIG: I did it, sweetie. I moved his arm across your girlfriend's glorious tit. I made him talk. And, oh, there was the beginning of sensation in the fingertips. Ummmm-mmmm! It's just a matter of practice before Malkovich becomes nothing more than another puppet hanging next to my worktable. INT. MALKOVICH'S APARTMENT - NIGHT Malkovich paces nervously, a glass of whisky in his hand. Kevin Bacon sits on the couch and fiddles with a Rubic's It's like nothing I've ever felt before. I think I'm going crazy.
MALKOVICH: It's like nothing I've ever felt before. I think I'm going crazy.
KEVIN BACON: I'm sure you're not going crazy.
MALKOVICH: Kevin, I'm telling you. it was like nothing I've.
KEVIN BACON: Yeah yeah yeah. Yadda yadda yadda. Were you stoned?
MALKOVICH: Yes, but you see, someone else was talking through my mouth.
KEVIN BACON: You were stoned. Case closed. End of story. How hot is this babe?
MALKOVICH: I think it might've been this Lotte woman talking through me. Maxine likes to call me Lotte.
KEVIN BACON: Ouch. Now that's hot. She's using you to channel some dead lesbian lover. Let me know when you're done with her. This is my type of chick.
MALKOVICH: I'm done with her now. Tonight really creeped me out.
KEVIN BACON: You're crazy to let go of a chick who calls you Lotte. I tell you that as a I don't know anything about her. What if she's some sort of witch or KEVIN BACON All the better. Hey, Hot Lesbian Witches, next Geraldo, buddy boy. Ha ha ha.
MALKOVICH: I don't know anything about her. What if she's some sort of witch or KEVIN BACON All the better. Hey, Hot Lesbian Witches, next Geraldo, buddy boy. Ha ha ha.
KEVIN BACON: All the better. Hey, Hot Lesbian Witches, next Geraldo, buddy boy. Ha ha ha.
MALKOVICH: I gotta know the truth, Kevin.
KEVIN BACON: The truth is for suckers, Johnny-Boy.
MALKOVICH: Excuse me, what type of service does this company provide?
FAT MAN: You get to be John Malkovich for fifteen minutes. Two hundred clams.
MALKOVICH: ( quietly flipped ) I see.
FAT MAN: No cutting, by the way. Malkovich pounds on the door.
CRAIG: Hey! Break it up! Break it up! Everybody gets a chance to be. The fat people climb off Malkovich. His glasses and cap have been knocked off and everyone recognizes him.
FAT MAN: It's him! Oh, we're so sorry Mr. Malkovich! I hope me and my associates from Overeaters Anonymous didn't hurt you too terribly.
MALKOVICH: ( to Craig ) INT. CRAIG AND MAXINE'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS Craig and Malkovich enter. Maxine looks up, startled, but controlling it.
MAXINE: What the fuck is going on?
MALKOVICH: What the fuck is going on?
CRAIG: Mr. Malkovich, my name is Craig Schwartz. I can explain. We operate a little business her that. simulates, for our clientele, the experience of. being you, actually.
MALKOVICH: Sure, after a fashion.
CRAIG: Sure, after a fashion.
MALKOVICH: Let me try.
CRAIG: You? Why I'm sure it would pale in comparison to the actual experience.
MALKOVICH: Let me try!
MAXINE: Let him try.
CRAIG: Of course, right this way, Mr. Malkovich. Compliments of the house. Craig ushers Malkovich to the portal door, opens it.
MALKOVICH: ( repulsed by the slime ) Malkovich climbs in. The door closes.
CRAIG: What happens when a man climbs through his own portal?
MAXINE: ( shrugs ) How the hell would I know? I wasn't a philosophy major.
PSYCHEDELIC MONTAGE: We see Malkovich hurtling through different environments. It's scary: giant toads, swirling eddies of garish, colored lights, naked old people pointing and laughing, black velvet clown paintings.
GIRL MALKOVICH: Malkovich Malkovich Malkovich Malkovich looks confused. The Malkovich waiter approaches, pen and pad in hand, ready to take their orders.
WAITER MALKOVICH: Malkovich Malkovich Malkovich?
GIRL MALKOVICH: Malkovich Malkovich Malkovich WAITER MALKOVICH Malkovich Malkovich. Malkovich looks down at the menu. Every item is "Malkovich." He screams:
WAITER MALKOVICH: Malkovich Malkovich. Malkovich looks down at the menu. Every item is "Malkovich." He screams:
MALKOVICH: The waiter jots it down on his pad.
WAITER MALKOVICH: Malkovich pushes himself away from the table and runs for the exit. He passes the stage where a girl singer Malkovich is singin sensuously into the microphone. She is backed by a '40's style big band of Malkoviches.
SINGING MALKOVICH: Malkovich Malkovich Malkovich Malkovich flies through the back door.
CRAIG: So how was it?
MALKOVICH: That. was. no. simulation.
CRAIG: I know. I'm sorry.
MALKOVICH: I have been to the dark side. I have seen a world that no man should ever Really? For most people it's a rather pleasant experience. What exactly did This portal is mine and must be sealed up forever. For the love of God.
CRAIG: Really? For most people it's a rather pleasant experience. What exactly did This portal is mine and must be sealed up forever. For the love of God.
MALKOVICH: This portal is mine and must be sealed up forever. For the love of God.
CRAIG: With all respect, sir, I discovered that portal. Its my livelihood.
MALKOVICH: It's my head, Schwartz, and I'll see you in court! Malkovich trudges off along the shoulder of the turnpike.
CRAIG: ( calling after him ) And who's to say I won't be seeing what you're seeing. in court? Cars whiz by Malkovich. Someone yells from a passing car.
MOTORIST: Hey, Malkovich! Think fast! Malkovich looks up. A beer can comes flying out of the car and hits him on the head.
LOTTE: Once this was a relationship based on love. Now you have me in a cage with a monkey and a gun to my head.
CRAIG: Things change. Anyway, you gave up your claim to that love the first time you stuck your dick in Maxine.
LOTTE: You fell in love with her first.
CRAIG: Yeah but I didn't do anything about it. Out of respect for our marriage.
LOTTE: You didn't do anything about it out of respect for the fact that she wouldn't let you near her with a ten foot pole, which is, by the way, about nine feet, nine inches off the mark anyway.
CRAIG: ( beat ) That's true. Oh, God, Lotte, what have I become? My wife in a cage with a monkey. A gun in my hand. Betrayal in my heart.
LOTTE: Maybe this is what you've always been, Craig, you just never faced it before.
CRAIG: Perhaps you're right. I can't let you go though. Too much has happened. You're my ace in the hole.
LOTTE: I need a shower.
CRAIG: I'm sorry. Oh God, I'm sorry. I'm some kind of monster. I'm the guy you read about in the paper and go, "he's some kind of monster."
LOTTE: You're not a monster, Craig. Just a confused man.
CRAIG: I love you so much. She dials her phone, opens her cage, puts phone to her ear.
LOTTE: We have to meet.
MAXINE: One hour. Craig hangs up, tapes Lotte's mouth.
CRAIG: I'll tell you all about it when I get home. Craig exits. Lotte fiddles with the ropes on her hands Elijah, slumped in the corner of the cage, blankly watches her moving hands. Suddenly his eyes narrow. Something is going on in his brain. We move slowly into his eyes.
SAFARI MAN: Well, there monkeys ain't going nowhere. Let's get us a couple a brews 'fore the boss comes back. The safari men leave the chimps on the ground. We descend from the trees to the ground next to the bound chimps. One of the chimps looks at the camera. He grunts and squeals.
SAFARI MAN: Why you little bastard! Elijah is wrestled to the ground amidst much screaming.
LOTTE: Oh, Elijah, you are magnificent! Elijah beams and screams for ecstatic joy. Lotte unlocks the cage, and dials the phone.
LOTTE: Maxine! Listen: It hasn't been me in John the last three times. Craig's had me locked up in the apartment. He made me call you at gunpoint. It's been him! Oh, God, it's been him!
LOTTE: But Maxine, I thought it was me you MAXINE ( O.S. ) I thought so too, doll. I guess we were mistaken. Maxine hangs up. Lotte, visibly shaken, dials the phone.
LOTTE: Hello, Dr. Lester?
MALKOVICH: Come on in.
MAXINE: I can explain about the portal, Don't con me, Maxine. We're over. I just let you up here to tell you that, and to tell you that I'm taking you and Schwartz to court.
MALKOVICH: Don't con me, Maxine. We're over. I just let you up here to tell you that, and to tell you that I'm taking you and Schwartz to court.
MAXINE: Oh shut up. Craig, darling are you in there? Malkovich tenses up, then shakes his head in an awkward, puppet-like manner. When Malkovich speaks, it seems to be against him will.
MALKOVICH: Yes. How did you know it was me?
MAXINE: Lotte called me.
MALKOVICH: Oh, so the bitch escaped.
MAXINE: Apparently you can control this Malkovich fellow now.
MALKOVICH: I'm getting better all the time.
MAXINE: I'll say you are. Let's do it on his kitchen table, then make him eat an omelette off of it.
MALKOVICH: ( as Malkovich ) No. damn. you. ( as Craig ) Oh shut up, you overrated sack of Malkovich begins undressing, and does a lewd bump and grind while looking mortified. Maxine giggles. Malkovich ( Craig ) laughs wildly.
LESTER: You know I think it pays to leave juice-making to the trained professionals. You look terrible, my dear.
LOTTE: Craig stole Maxine from me, Dr. Hmmm, a lesbian, are you? I must inform you that I find that highly No, you don't understand. I've been inside Malkovich when I'm with What?! That is not allowed. My God, you are supposed to be one of us. You know you must never partake of Malkovich by yourself!
LESTER: Hmmm, a lesbian, are you? I must inform you that I find that highly No, you don't understand. I've been inside Malkovich when I'm with What?! That is not allowed. My God, you are supposed to be one of us. You know you must never partake of Malkovich by yourself!
LOTTE: No, you don't understand. I've been inside Malkovich when I'm with What?! That is not allowed. My God, you are supposed to be one of us. You know you must never partake of Malkovich by yourself!
LESTER: ( slaps Lotte furiously ) What?! That is not allowed. My God, you are supposed to be one of us. You know you must never partake of Malkovich by yourself!
LOTTE: No, I didn't know that.
LESTER: Oh, didn't anyone show you the indoctrination video?
LOTTE: Oh, sorry. Right this way.
LESTER: Oh, sorry. Right this way.
LOTTE: Does Floris know that she's the Well, I tried to explain it to her, Lester points to his ear and shrugs.
LESTER: Well, I tried to explain it to her, Lester points to his ear and shrugs.
MAXINE: You still there, sweets?
MALKOVICH: Yeah. I've figured out how to hold on as long as I want. Oddly enough, it's all in the wrists.
MAXINE: ( little girl pout ) Do a puppet show for me, Craig honey.
MALKOVICH: You mean with Malkovich?
MAXINE: I'd love to see your work.
MALKOVICH: ( pleased ) Really? Yeah. Okay. Malkovich leans over and kisses her, then gets up.
MAXINE: ( moved ) That was incredible. You're brilliant!
MALKOVICH: You see, Maxine, it isn't just playing with dolls.
MAXINE: You're right, my darling, it's so much more. It's playing with Malkovich kisses Maxine. She snuggles close to him.
MAXINE: Stay in him forever?
MALKOVICH: ( as Malkovich, screaming ) ( as Craig, calmly ) But how will we make a living, my love, if our clientele doesn't have access to our product?
MAXINE: Well, we'll have all the money in Malkovich's bank account, plus he still gets acting work occasionally.
MALKOVICH: ( as Malkovich, breaking through ) No! Please! ( as Craig, to Malkovich ) Shut up, will you? We're trying to think here. ( to Maxine ) It is sort of like being a puppeteer. I like that about it.
MAXINE: No one would ever have to know its not him.
MALKOVICH: ( an idea ) Wait a minute! What if everybody knew? What if we presented Malkovich as the world's most complicated puppet and me as the only puppeteer sophisticated enough to work him? We'd wipe the floor with the Great Mantini!
MAXINE: Oh, Craiggy, that's brilliant!
LOTTE: I have sinned, unwittingly, against the community. And for this I am truly sorry.
MAN #2: W-w-what's it like on the inside?
LOTTE: Oh, it's glorious. It's indescribable.
MAN #2: Oooh, I wanna go. I wanna go. I say it's time.
LESTER: Perhaps you're right, Terry. We're all prepared, and perhaps this Schwartz fellow is forcing our hand a bit. We will enter the portal Everyone cheers.
MALKOVICH: ( Craig to Malkovich ) Shut up! ( to Maxine ) Sorry, dear, I lost control for a minute.
MAXINE: ( kissing him ) It's okay, my sweet. They go back to filling the portal. There is the sound of many shuffling feet in the hallway. The door flies open and the Malkovichians led by Lester and Lotte burst in. Malkovich and Maxine turn with a start.
LESTER: Aaaahhhh, the portal!
LOTTE: ( to Malkovich ) You bastard! Lotte lunges for Malkovich. Lester grabs her arm, holds her back.
LESTER: No! Don't harm the vessel!
LOTTE: It's Craig in there, I can tell.
LESTER: I understand, but we must protect the vessel at all costs. Please, Craig, please step aside and allow us to have what is rightfully ours.
CRAIG: Squatter's rights, Lester. Craig laughs somewhat maniacally. Maxine slips her arm through Craig's, joins him in his laughter, and glances triumphantly over at Lotte.
MAXINE: Now excuse us, we have an entertainment legend to create.
LESTER: ( to the cult members ) Clear the way for them, my friends. They will be dealt with in due time. The Malkovichians grumble and let Malkovich and Maxine LESTER ( CONT'D ) Now, let's see what we can do to salvage this portal. for the sake of all that is good. The Malkovichians converge on the sealed portal, and begin clawing desperately at the quick-drying cement. Fingers are scraped raw, and we see smears of blood and skin on the rough gray surface.
AGENT: Of course, send him right in. Don't ever keep him waiting again. Do you Malkovich and Maxine enter. The agent stands, holds out his hand.
MALKOVICH: This is my fiancee Maxine. The agent shakes Maxine's hand.
AGENT: Great to see you, Maxine. Sorry about the cunt at reception. Please have a Malkovich and Maxine sit.
MAXINE: No thanks.
AGENT: ( into phone ) Teresa, get me a chicken soup. ( to Malkovich and Maxine ) Chicken soup? Maxine and Malkovich shake their heads "no."
MALKOVICH: I'll get right to the point, Larry. I'm a puppet now.
AGENT: I'm being controlled by the world's greatest puppeteer, Craig Schwartz.
MALKOVICH: I'm being controlled by the world's greatest puppeteer, Craig Schwartz.
AGENT: ( no clue ) Oh yeah, he's good.
MALKOVICH: . and I want to show off his skills by performing a one-puppet extravaganza in Reno.
MAXINE: Vegas. Can you arrange that?
MALKOVICH: Vegas. Can you arrange that?
AGENT: Sure, sure. Just let me make a couple of calls.
MAN #2: That's the last of it, boss. Lester peers through the door.
LESTER: Well, let's see what we've got Lester crawls into the tunnel, the door slams behind INT. PORTAL - CONTINUOUS Lester crawls through. There is a slurping sound and a flash of light.
DIRECTOR: We look over to see a director and camera crew.
LESTER: Thank you all for your efforts, but I'm afraid we can no longer get into Malkovich through the portal.
LOTTE: ( panicky ) Why not? I need to get in there!
LESTER: I'm not certain, my dear, but I believe your husband has somehow psychically diverted the route.
LOTTE: That bastard! I'll gladly dispose of him in the name of the order, Son of Malkovich.
LESTER: I'm afraid that no physical harm must come to him as long as he inhabits the vessel.
MAN #3: ( raises hand ) Oooh, I got an idea! What if we build another portal to Malkovich, like around back, and sneak in that MAN #4 Only Captain Mertin knew how to build a portal, dummy, and he's dead!
MAN #4: Only Captain Mertin knew how to build a portal, dummy, and he's dead!
LESTER: Actually, my friends, I suppose its time I told you, I'm Captain James The members fall into a stunned silence. Lester takes some refrigerator magnets and spells out L-E-S-T-E-R on a board. He then rearranges them for a while.
MAN #3: How can this be? I thought you were only one hundred and five years old. Mertin would have to be.
LESTER: ( chuckles amiably ) I'm two hundred and five, truth be WOMAN #1 ( flirtatiously ) You don't look a day over one hundred and five, Captain. What's your secret?
WOMAN #1: ( flirtatiously ) You don't look a day over one hundred and five, Captain. What's your secret?
LESTER: Lots of carrot juice, little lady. That, and a deal with the Devil. There is a lot of murmuring in the room now.
MAN #2: So what exactly are you saying? Are we in cahoots with the Dark Master The cultists get tense, start to leave en masse.
LESTER: The cultists get tense, start to leave en masse.
MAN #3: That's the only difference?
LESTER: The cultists think about is, then shrug and stay put.
LOTTE: Well, I for one, am resigning. I will not serve evil. I am ashamed of all of you. Lotte heads for the door.
LESTER: My dear, let me assure you that when we attain power, it will be much more pleasant for those inside Malkovich, than for those outside. Lotte stops and turns.
LOTTE: I'll take my chances. She exits.
LESTER: Anybody else?
WOMAN #1: Do we get to wear a crown?
LESTER: But of course.
WOMAN #1: Count me in.
LESTER: Good. I think its time to beckon Mr. Flemmer. Perhaps He can help us out of this pickle.
FLEMMER: Boy, this is a toughie. To be honest, I didn't anticipate this.
LESTER: And as I said, sir, we can't very well exert physical persuasion upon the sacred vessel Malkovich.
FLEMMER: Right, Lester. I heard you the first time. I'm not a dummy.
LESTER: Didn't mean to imply that you were, Look, I'm going back to my house to ponder this. So stay calm and keep track of Schwartz's comings and goings. Oh, and somebody dispose of Schwartz's wife, will you? Nice to meet you all. The cult members ad-lib "same here, sir."
FLEMMER: Look, I'm going back to my house to ponder this. So stay calm and keep track of Schwartz's comings and goings. Oh, and somebody dispose of Schwartz's wife, will you? Nice to meet you all. The cult members ad-lib "same here, sir."
LOTTE: Oh, my friends. Be thankful you're not human. People are treacherous and greedy and corrupt. I've lost my heart to two of them and I almost lost my soul to another. And I'm no better. Look at the way I keep you, locked in cages, for my own enjoyment. Well, I've been in a cage too, my friends. Literally and figuratively. So tonight I set you free. Lotte opens the windows and the front door, then unlocks all the cages. The animals scurry and fly out of their cages, and out of the house. Lotte watches silently until she is alone.
LOTTE: They've come to kill me, Elijah. See, I know too much. I should get the door. It's impolite to keep death Elijah looks at her sweetly, a great sadness in his eyes. Then he leads her by the hand out the window.
MAXINE: This is it, lover. You're stepping onto that stage a nobody and presto-change-o, you're coming back the greatest puppeteer the world has ever seen.
MALKOVICH: I'm nervous. Malkovich is fighting me hard today. Malkovich jerks a bit, gets it under control.
MAXINE: Doesn't he know how important tonight is to us?
MALKOVICH: He's a selfish bastard.
LESTER: Blasphemous bastard. Malkovich tap dances out onto the stage. He is amazingly nimble and the audience "oohs" and "aahs."
USHER: Oh, Mr. Mantini! We weren't expecting you tonight, sir. Um, I'm afraid there's not an empty seat in the entire house.
MANTINI: ( not taking his eyes from the stage ) Make one empty.
USHER: Y-y-y-es sir. The usher looks nervously around for someone to boot. Martini waits in the back. On stage, Malkovich is now performing the "back of the car scene" from "On The Waterfront." He alternates between the Marlon Brando part and the Rod Steiger part, moving back and forth from one stool to the another. He performs it magnificently. We see Lester in the audience wiping a small tear from his eye.
LESTER: Not too shabby. Mantini is now sitting in a good aisle seat next to a beautiful woman. Her boyfriend is being hauled toward the exit by the usher. The beautiful woman watches, with some concern, as the boyfriend is taken away. Then she turns and smiles flirtatiously at Mantini. Mantini smiles back. On stage Malkovich is dressed in a ringmaster's outfit and juggling chainsaws.
MANTINI: Nothing more than a Goddamn clown. At this point the entire audience stands and gives Malkovich a spontaneous standing ovation. All except Mantini. Even the cultists get up.
LOTTE: They're going to take over the world, Elijah. Evil will reign. But, then, evil already reigns, doesn't it? So what difference does it make if John Malkovich is wearing the fucking crown while it's reigning? Elijah sighs, then holds his stomach. The ulcer is INT. FLEMMER'S APARTMENT - DAY It's a conservatively furnished upper westside apartment. Looks like it belongs to a Columbia professor. The walls are lined with books. Mr. Flemmer sits at his desk, his head in his hands, deep in thought. The doorbell rings.
FLEMMER: It's open. The door opens and Lester pokes his head in.
LESTER: It's just me, boss. I brought Lester enters with a greasy white paper bag.
FLEMMER: Have a seat. I wracking my brain over this Malkovich thing.
LESTER: We saw his show at the Luxor last Vegas? What'd you think?
FLEMMER: ( impressed ) Vegas? What'd you think?
LESTER: The kid's got talent. You've never seen Malkovich like this. Schwartz had him up there singing and dancing. Impressions? Those are hard.
FLEMMER: Impressions? Those are hard.
LESTER: Very talented son of a bitch. Too bad we can't kill him.
FLEMMER: I suppose I could come to him in a dream. I don't know. That's the best I can think of right now.
LESTER: A scary dream?
FLEMMER: No, a sexy dream. Of course, a scary I like that.
LESTER: ( noncommittally ) I like that.
MALKOVICH: They love me, darling! "Craig Schwartz is fantastic!" The New York Times. "If only Craig Schwartz had always been inside Malkovich!" Women's Wear Daily. "Craig Schwartz - The world's greatest puppeteer!" Paul Wunder, WBAI Radio.
MAXINE: Oh, darling. It's a dream come true. We're going to ride this straight to the top.
MALKOVICH: Sleepy suddenly.
MAXINE: Busy day, my little fire chief. Why don't you climb into bed, and I'll meet you there in just. But Malkovich is already passed out on the floor on top of his clippings. Maxine smiles maternally, gets up and puts blanket over him. We stay on Malkovich's face.
CRAIG: Who are you?
FLEMMER: I am the Devil.
CRAIG: Leave Malkovich. He is mine.
FLEMMER: Leave Malkovich. He is mine.
CRAIG: Okay. Sorry. I didn't know.
MAXINE: Bad dream, darling?
MALKOVICH: I've got to leave Malkovich.
MAXINE: You've got to be kidding.
MALKOVICH: I just had the most horrifying nightmare. The devil was in it. Flemmer crouches behind a bureau and listens. He is pleased with himself.
MAXINE: Malkovich is our meal ticket. You can't back out because of some stupid dream.
FLEMMER: ( to himself ) Honey, we can be happy and poor ( laughs derisively ) Perhaps you'll want to consult that Ouija board again. There is a knock at the door. Maxine opens it, angry.
MALKOVICH: Honey, we can be happy and poor Perhaps you'll want to consult that Ouija board again. There is a knock at the door. Maxine opens it, angry.
MAXINE: ( laughs derisively ) Perhaps you'll want to consult that Ouija board again. There is a knock at the door. Maxine opens it, angry.
MALKOVICH: Derek Mantini! Mantini enters. Maxine is suddenly interested. Mantini and Maxine give each other the once over.
MANTINI: ( still eyeing Maxine ) Hello, Schwartz. I saw your show.
MALKOVICH: Did you see the reviews?
MANTINI: Yeah, I saw them
MALKOVICH: Because if you missed any, I just happen to have copies here you can take with you when you leave now.
MAXINE: I'm Maxine. I produced the evening with Malkovich.
MANTINI: Very impressive. I could use a producer with your vision. And other outstanding attributes.
MALKOVICH: She's not available.
MANTINI: We'll see, Schwartz. We'll see.
MAXINE: Yeah, we'll see, Schwartz. We'll see.
MANTINI: I won't waste your time Schwartz, or more importantly, mine. Here's my proposal: There's only room in this world for one "World's Greatest Puppeteer." Correct? So let's allow the puppet-going public to crown their king.
MALKOVICH: How do we do that?
MANTINI: A friendly competition, if you will. Your Malkovich puppet and my Harry S. Truman puppet appear opposite each other in a play. Not some Vegas Burly-Q pyrotechnics, but a real play that requires actual acting. The audience decides who is more deserving of the title. The losing puppeteer bows out graciously. Goes back to obscurity as a file clerk.
MALKOVICH: What's the play?
MANTINI: Say. "Equus"? It's got everything.
MALKOVICH: Never heard of it.
MANTINI: Broadway's finest three hours. It's about the suppression of the individual. Conformity as God in modern society.
MALKOVICH: Sounds boring. Are there any songs?
MANTINI: Nothing but acting to hide behind, I'm not afraid. I toured for a year with the National Puppet Company's production of "Long Day's Journey Into Night."
MALKOVICH: I'm not afraid. I toured for a year with the National Puppet Company's production of "Long Day's Journey Into Night."
MANTINI: Great then.
MALKOVICH: Is there dancing?
MANTINI: Who needs dancing?
MALKOVICH: Who needs dancing?
LESTER: How'd it go? Did you say the philodendron gets water or no?
FLEMMER: No, for God's sake, I just watered it yesterday. It almost went well. I gave a pretty good dream, but circumstances arose.
LESTER: What kind of circumstances?
FLEMMER: Maxine says she'll leave him if he leaves Malkovich, plus he's been challenged to a puppet-duel by The Great Mantini?
LESTER: The Great Mantini?
FLEMMER: No, the Mediocre Mantini. Of course the Great Mantini!
LESTER: Oh, he's good! Great, actually. I saw him do "Tru" with his sixty foot Robert Morse puppet. Sensational.
FLEMMER: But I think I have another plan.
LESTER: ( snippy ) Do tell. I love a good plan.
FLEMMER: Why are you being like this? Lester shrugs.
LESTER: I missed you. I'm sorry. Tell me the plan.
FLEMMER: Well, if Mantini wins, Schwartz will leave Malkovich, right? So, if he needs it, I help Mantini's performance a bit, give him an edge. Spice up the Can you do that? I mean, do you know anything about puppetry?
LESTER: Can you do that? I mean, do you know anything about puppetry?
FLEMMER: I am the Devil, Lester. I think I can handle it.
LESTER: I was just asking. No disrespect Fine. Let's drop it.
FLEMMER: Fine. Let's drop it.
LESTER: Fine. I mean, it's not like I was doubting you, it's just that I know puppetry is a skill that takes a long time to acquire.
FLEMMER: Fine. I'm not mad. Let's just drop it.
LESTER: Fine. Your mail's on the kitchen table. Mostly junk. Oh, there's a letter from Alex Trebek.
LOTTE: I'm glad you learned sign language, Elijah, but I'm tired of your nagging. I'm tired of this conversation. I'm tired period. What has the world ever done for me that I should feel personally responsible for saving it?
LOTTE: What have I become?
MALKOVICH: Do you?
MALKOVICH: Says who?
MALKOVICH: Do you? We see the audience fidgeting in their seats, coughing.
MAXINE: ( without turning around ) Keep your eyes in your pants, old INT. THE BROADHURST LOBBY - A BIT LATER It's intermission. The lobby is crowded. Maxine moves through the crowd listening to snippets of conversation. Flemmer, now in a tuxedo, moves about also. First couple:
THEATERGOER #1: That Truman puppet is downright boring as the psychiatrist.
THEATERGOER #2: It's a wooden performance, really. Get it? Wooden? Second couple:
THEATERGOER #3: What's with the Malkovich puppet? He was much better in Vegas when he played the piano with his feet.
THEATERGOER #4: I hate it when they try to stretch. It's like Woody Allen. Third couple:
THEATERGOER #5: They both stink! I'm going across the street to second act Miss Saigon.
MAXINE: You'd better turn on the pyrotechnics, lover, 'cause right now you're running neck and neck with the dead president. And you're both in last place. Malkovich continues to watch himself in the mirror, nods his INT. CATWALK ABOVE STAGE - CONTINUOUS Mantini leans against a rail and smokes a cigarette. Charles Nelson Reilly, in a tuxedo, confers with him in hushed tones.
MALKOVICH: Eyes! . White eyes never closed! Eyes like flames coming coming! . God seest! . God seest! . NO!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: ( to his wife ) That Malkovich puppet is a damn fine ( blood boiling ) Bastard is stealing my thunder. Malkovich and Truman on the stage. Truman is pacing, swirling, dancing, juggling enormous bowling pins as he HARRY S. TRUMAN PUPPET All right! I'll take it away! He'll be delivered from madness. What then? He'll feel himself acceptable! What Malkovich has upPed his convulsions now. He watches Truman out of the corner of his eye while writhing tormentedly on the bench. He levitates. Spins in mid-air. Falls on all fours and does an uncanny impression of a yelping dog. Truman watches Malkovich, continues to speak. But now, when he talks, fire comes out of his mouth.
FLEMMER: ( blood boiling ) Bastard is stealing my thunder. Malkovich and Truman on the stage. Truman is pacing, swirling, dancing, juggling enormous bowling pins as he HARRY S. TRUMAN PUPPET All right! I'll take it away! He'll be delivered from madness. What then? He'll feel himself acceptable! What Malkovich has upPed his convulsions now. He watches Truman out of the corner of his eye while writhing tormentedly on the bench. He levitates. Spins in mid-air. Falls on all fours and does an uncanny impression of a yelping dog. Truman watches Malkovich, continues to speak. But now, when he talks, fire comes out of his mouth.
ACTUAL TRUMAN: Where am I? Aren't I dead? Vote for Mantini! Truman grows and grows until he is again just a giant puppet. The audience bursts into applause, then delivers a standing ovation. Truman bows. Flemmer laughs wildly in the catwalks. Malkovich walks dejectedly from the stage.
MALKOVICH: Good-bye, Maxine.
MAXINE: Malkovich drops limply to the floor. He lifts his head.
MALKOVICH: ( weak but relieved ) I'm back! My nightmare is over.
FLEMMER: ( into walkie-talkie ) Okay, now!
MALKOVICH: ( now sounding like fifty voices ) I am your earthly king! Kneel before The audience scoffs at first, but then are compelled to their knees.
CROWD: ( like automatons ) Hail Malkovich, king of the damned. Malkovich laughs, gives the thumbs up sign to Flemmer in the catwalks. Flemmer gives the thumbs up sign back. Lotte appears in the back of the theater, an out-of-breath figure in shadows. It is too late. She runs from the INT. BACKSTAGE - CONTINUOUS Maxine watches, somewhat amused. She turns and heads for the exit.
FADE OUT: FADE IN EXT. MANHATTAN STREET - DAY CHYRON: LATER THAT WEEK Something is wrong. It's a typical midtown street, but everything is painted gray: the buildings, the streets, the sidewalks, the cars. People walk along the streets, carrying gray briefcases, wearing gray jumpsuits. Nobody talks, nobody smiles. Gray birds fly silently in the sky. There is no noise whatsoever. There are several movie theaters on the block. All marquees advertise John Malkovich movies. Around the corner comes Malkovich. He is floating about ten feet off the ground on an enormous, bright red, jeweled throne. He wears a gold crown and purple silk robe and smiles condescendingly, majestically. Floris sits on his lap. She is dressed in an orange satin gown. Nobody on the street looks up.
FADE IN: EXT. MANHATTAN STREET - DAY CHYRON: LATER THAT WEEK Something is wrong. It's a typical midtown street, but everything is painted gray: the buildings, the streets, the sidewalks, the cars. People walk along the streets, carrying gray briefcases, wearing gray jumpsuits. Nobody talks, nobody smiles. Gray birds fly silently in the sky. There is no noise whatsoever. There are several movie theaters on the block. All marquees advertise John Malkovich movies. Around the corner comes Malkovich. He is floating about ten feet off the ground on an enormous, bright red, jeweled throne. He wears a gold crown and purple silk robe and smiles condescendingly, majestically. Floris sits on his lap. She is dressed in an orange satin gown. Nobody on the street looks up.
MALKOVICH: ( fifty voices ) Greetings, my lowly subjects.
FLORIS: Great things, my lonely subtext?
MALKOVICH: ( rolls his eyes ) Boy, be careful what you wish for. ( to Floris ) Never mind, dear. Just enjoy the ride, will you? Floris shrugs, picks at her finger nails.
LOTTE: Yes. I'm the only one. I have to enter Malkovich and destroy him from the inside. If not me, who?
LOTTE: ( puts finger to his lips ) Hush, sweetheart. Lotte slips into a gray jumpsuit. She stuffs a homemade bomb on her pocket. She and Elijah kiss passionately, then ( to the animals ) I'll be with you always, my friends. Who knows, maybe if I'm lucky, I'll rejoin you with wings and a beak.
LOTTE: ( to the animals ) I'll be with you always, my friends. Who knows, maybe if I'm lucky, I'll rejoin you with wings and a beak.
PARROT: ( softly ) Good-bye. Good-bye.
LOTTE: My God!
CRAIG: I'm so glad you're safe. You look really wonderful.
LOTTE: I'm in love. For the first time. It's funny, but when it happens to you, there's no question.
CRAIG: He's a lucky man. Do I know him?
LOTTE: It's Elijah.
CRAIG: The iguana?
LOTTE: The monkey.
CRAIG: Oh, right. As long as you're happy. I'm sure he's a better lover than I ever was.
LOTTE: A better friend.
CRAIG: ( beat ) I'm sorry for everything.
LOTTE: ( pecking him on the cheek ) It's okay, Craig. It all worked out, in an odd sort of way.
CRAIG: You came up here looking for the Yeah. I was going to kill him from the inside.
LOTTE: Yeah. I was going to kill him from the inside.
CRAIG: And yourself too in the process. God, you're so beautiful. Why couldn't I see that before?
LOTTE: You saw it once. Now you see it again. That's life, isn't it? And you were up here to try the same thing, weren't I suppose. But they got here first, the lousy bastards. So now it's all over, I guess.
CRAIG: I suppose. But they got here first, the lousy bastards. So now it's all over, I guess.
LOTTE: I don't know. There's a small community of us. We have a place they don't know about. We're happy. We'll keep trying to figure out a way. Come stay with us. Join the struggle.
CRAIG: You'll have me, after all I've done to you?
LOTTE: People make mistakes.
CRAIG: I'm through with puppets, Lotte. I just want you to know that.
LOTTE: I know.
CRAIG: I'd like to be a farmer. I want to help things grow, to encourage life. Do you and your friends need a farmer?
LOTTE: Sure. We could really use a farmer. We'd be grateful for the help. Also, I think, you know, if you wouldn't mind too terribly, a little puppet show every once in a while, would do a lot to lift our spirits. You know, if you wouldn't mind too Craig's eyes well up with tears. Lotte looks at him sweetly.
CRAIG: I love you, Lotte. We come on very close to Craig's arm as he lifts it to put it around Lotte. We see a thin almost invisible filament. We follow it up, and discover that Craig is now a marionette being controlled from above by an emotionless Mantini in a gray jumpsuit.
MANTINI: ( in Craig's voice ) I can't wait to see where you and your friends live, Lotte.
FLEMMER: One serpent, coming up. Flemmer throws his head back and laughs. The camera moves into his mouth and down his throat, which, oddly enough, looks exactly like the membranous John Malkovich portal MUSIC IN: "Put Your Hand Inside The Puppet Head" by They Might Be Giants. It plays throughout the credits.
FADE OUT: THE END Writers : Charlie Kaufman
THE END: Writers : Charlie Kaufman
