LOUISE: ( sets dinner before . Evening, Chance.
CHANCE: ( slowly, perfect diction, . Good evening, Louise. Louise sets Chance's clean clothes on the small table, picks up his laundry bag.
LOUISE: . The Old Man is getting weaker, I see.
CHANCE: ( begins to eat ) I see.
LOUISE: I'm afraid he's slippin' a bit with every hour that goes by. Chance, his manners impeccable, concentrates on the TV as he eats. A buzzer SOUNDS, Louise looks upstairs.
CHANCE: ( still watches TV ) Is his back feeling better? Louise gives Chance a look.
LOUISE: . Gobbledegook. You and your gobbledegook. You're gonna be the death of me yet, Chance. . Unless those stairs are. The Good Lord's liable to snatch up two unwillin' souls at the same time if I keep on trampin' up those stairs. I don't want none of Louise disappears through the doorway. Chance continues to eat and watch TV.
CHANCE: Good morning, Louise.
LOUISE: ( out of breath ) He's dead, Chance! The Old Man's ( flatly, turns back to TV ) . I see.
CHANCE: ( flatly, turns back to TV ) . I see.
LOUISE: Must of happened durin' the night, I don't know. Lord, he wasn't breathin' and as cold as a fish. I touched him, just to see, and you believe me, Chance - that's doin' more than I get paid to do. Then I just covered him up, pulled the sheet over his head.
CHANCE: ( nodding ) Yes. I've seen that done.
LOUISE: Then I got the hell out of that room and called the doctor and I think I woke him probably, he wasn't any too alert. He just said, 'Yeah, he's been expectin' it and said he'd send somebody over.' Lord, what a mornin'!
CHANCE: ( watches news, flashes of . Yes, Louise, it's snowing in the garden today. Have you looked outside and seen the snow? It's very white. A beat of silence from Louise, then anger.
LOUISE: Dammit, Boy! Is that all you got to say? More gobbledegook? That Old Man's layin' up there dead as hell and it just don't make any difference to you!
CHANCE: ( with a smile, accepting Yes, Louise. I have seen it often. It happens to old people.
LOUISE: Well, ain't that the truth.
CHANCE: Yes. It is. Louise throws back the cover from a chair next to Chance and sits, softening a bit toward him.
LOUISE: Oh, Lord, Chance - I don't know what I was expectin' from you. I'm sorry for yellin' like I did. No sir, I just don't know what I was expectin' . . I 'spose I'd better gather up some breakfast for you.
CHANCE: ( a turn to her ) Yes, I'm very hungry.
LOUISE: ( rises, looks upstairs ) Well, no more stewin' those prunes every mornin', that's somethin', I ( she starts out, stops by . what are you goin' to do now, ( gazing at TV ) I'm going to work in the garden. Louise gives Chance a long look, then turns to leave.
CHANCE: ( gazing at TV ) I'm going to work in the garden. Louise gives Chance a long look, then turns to leave.
LOUISE: ( as she goes ) . I'll get you some eggs. Chance nods in approval, then changes the channel on the TV.
LOUISE: . Well, ain't you the gentleman this mornin'. . gotta go now, Chance.
CHANCE: ( resumes working ) You're gonna need somebody, someone's gotta be around for you, ( he keeps working ) . You oughta find yourself a lady, Chance. ( she smiles slightly, with But I guess it oughta be an old lady, 'cause you ain't gonna do a young one any good, not with that little thing of yours. ( she reaches out, puts a . You're always gonna be a little boy, ain't you? ( he smiles, keeps working ) . Goodbye, Chance. Louise gives his shoulder a squeeze, turns and moves toward the house.
LOUISE: You're gonna need somebody, someone's gotta be around for you, . You oughta find yourself a lady, Chance. But I guess it oughta be an old lady, 'cause you ain't gonna do a young one any good, not with that little thing of yours. . You're always gonna be a little boy, ain't you? . Goodbye, Chance. Louise gives his shoulder a squeeze, turns and moves toward the house.
CHANCE: ( as she goes ) Goodbye, Louise. Louise waves as she enters the townhouse. Chance tips his hat once again as she disappears.
LOUISE: . He used to be a big man. 'Spose he wasted away to about . I guess I'll be goin' off to find me some folks, Old Man. I'm not batty enough to stay around this neighborhood any longer. The stretcher bearers move to the front door. Louise steps in front of them.
HAYES: ( looks around ) . This is another world, Tom - I never would have believed it.
FRANKLIN: Yeah. He and my father used to ride together back in the thirties. Fox hunting. Before I was born.
HAYES: . Would you take me on a tour?
FRANKLIN: ( he smiles ) . The safe is in Mr. Jennings' bedroom, that'll be stop number Franklin puts a hand on Hayes' shoulder as they,go off down the hall.
FRANKLIN: . Why. Hello, we thought we heard something. I'm Thomas Franklin. Chance remains seated, takes Franklin's hand warmly in both of his like the President did on TV.
CHANCE: Hello, Thomas. I'm Chance, the . The gardener? . Yes, of course. Mr. Chance, this is Ms. Hayes. Hayes moves to shake Chance's hand.
FRANKLIN: ( a beat ) . The gardener? ( thinks it's a joke, . Yes, of course. Mr. Chance, this is Ms. Hayes. Hayes moves to shake Chance's hand.
HAYES: Mr. Chance, I'm very pleased to meet you.
CHANCE: ( doesn't rise, again Chance turns back to the TV and Hayes and Franklin exchange ( after an uneasy pause ) . We're with Franklin, Jennings and Roberts, the law firm handling the estate.
FRANKLIN: ( after an uneasy pause ) . We're with Franklin, Jennings and Roberts, the law firm handling the estate.
CHANCE: ( a smile, totally at ease ) Yes, Thomas - I understand. Another period of silence. Franklin and Hayes seem perplexed.
FRANKLIN: . Are you waiting for someone? An Yes. I'm waiting for my lunch.
CHANCE: Yes. I'm waiting for my lunch.
FRANKLIN: Your lunch? You have a luncheon appointment here?
CHANCE: Yes. Louise will bring me lunch.
FRANKLIN: Louise?. The maid?. But she should have left earlier I see.
CHANCE: ( smiles at Hayes ) I see.
FRANKLIN: ( a beat ) . You've quite a sense of humor, Mr. Chance - but all kidding aside, may I ask just what you are doing I live here.
CHANCE: I live here.
FRANKLIN: You live here? . We don't have any record of Yes. It's very cold outside today, isn't it, Thomas?
CHANCE: Yes. It's very cold outside today, isn't it, Thomas?
FRANKLIN: ( a beat ) . How long have you been living Ever since I can remember, since I was a child.
CHANCE: Ever since I can remember, since I was a child.
FRANKLIN: ( doubting ) Since you were a child?
CHANCE: Yes, Thomas. I have always been here. I have always worked in the . Then you really are a gardener?
HAYES: . Then you really are a gardener?
CHANCE: Your appearance doesn't suggest that at all, Mr. Chance.
HAYES: Your appearance doesn't suggest that at all, Mr. Chance.
CHANCE: Oh. Thank you.
FRANKLIN: Do you have any proof of your employment, Mr. Chance - any checks from the deceased, any contracts or How were you compensated for these duties you say you performed?
CHANCE: How were you compensated for these duties you say you performed?
FRANKLIN: How were you compensated for these duties you say you performed?
CHANCE: How were you paid?
FRANKLIN: How were you paid?
CHANCE: I was given meals, and a home.
HAYES: What about money?
CHANCE: I never needed money. Franklin steps to the TV, turns it off.
FRANKLIN: Mr. Chance, perhaps you could show us some identification with your address a Driver's License, a credit card, checkbook?
CHANCE: No, I do not have any of those.
FRANKLIN: Then how about medical records? Could you give us the name of your doctor, or your dentist?
CHANCE: I have no need for a doctor or dentist. I have never been ill. I have never been allowed outside of this house, and, except for Joe, I have never had any visitors.
FRANKLIN: . Joe? Who's Joe?
CHANCE: ( turns TV back on ) Joe Saracini. He was a mason that did some repairs on the brickwork at the rear of the house. That was in 1952.
FRANKLIN: ( changes channels ) Yes. I remember when he came. He was very fat and had short hair and showed me some pictures from a funny little book.
CHANCE: ( changes channels ) Yes. I remember when he came. He was very fat and had short hair and showed me some pictures from a funny little book.
HAYES: Some pictures.?
CHANCE: Yes. Of men and women.
HAYES: . Oh.
FRANKLIN: Mr. Chance, that was twenty-seven years ago.
CHANCE: Yes and the Old Man used to come to my garden. He would read and rest Come now, Mr. Jennings had been bedridden for thirty-five years, since he fractured his spine.
FRANKLIN: Come now, Mr. Jennings had been bedridden for thirty-five years, since he fractured his spine.
CHANCE: Yes, Thomas, that is correct. Then he stopped visiting my garden.
FRANKLIN: ( a beat ) . We shall need some proof of your having resided here, Mr. You have me, I am here. What more proof do you need? Franklin and Hayes exchange looks.
CHANCE: You have me, I am here. What more proof do you need? Franklin and Hayes exchange looks.
FRANKLIN: Have you served in the Army?
CHANCE: No, Thomas. But I have seen the Army on television.
HAYES: How about taxes, Mr. Chance, surely you must have paid taxes?
CHANCE: Chance picks up his slippers and leads the attorneys outside.
CHANCE: ( points ) Those trees were very young when I first arrived.
FRANKLIN: Are you related to the deceased, Mr. Chance?
CHANCE: No, I don't think so. And I have planted and shaped all the hedges, and in the springtime you will be able to see my flowers.
HAYES: Might you have a birth certificate, Mr. Chance?
CHANCE: ( points to wall ) That's where Joe fixed the bricks. They arrive at the rear building and Chance opens the door to the garage. Franklin and Hayes follow him inside.
FRANKLIN: ( admires car ) . Do you drive this, Mr. Chance?
CHANCE: No, Thomas. I have never been in an You never been in a car? Chance is silent for a moment, he blushes slightly.
HAYES: ( amazed ) You never been in a car? Chance is silent for a moment, he blushes slightly.
CHANCE: . Well. From time to time I did sit in it. Just in here. It hasn't been outside since the Old Man hurt himself. I live in here. Chance moves toward his room, Franklin and Hayes follow.
CHANCE: The Old Man gave me nice television sets, this one has remote control. He has one just like it.
FRANKLIN: Mr. Chance, the fact remains that we have no information of your having any connection with the Yes, I understand. Chance puts on his slippers, crosses to the closet, opens the door. It is filled with men's wear.
CHANCE: Yes, I understand. Chance puts on his slippers, crosses to the closet, opens the door. It is filled with men's wear.
CHANCE: I am allowed to go to the attic and select any of the Old Man's suits. They all fit me very well. I can also take his shirts, shoes and It is quite amazing how those clothes have come back into style.
HAYES: It is quite amazing how those clothes have come back into style.
CHANCE: Yes. I have seen styles on What are your plans now, Mr. I would like to stay and work in my Chance turns to watch TV. Franklin takes Hayes to a side of the room.
FRANKLIN: ( getting back to business ) What are your plans now, Mr. I would like to stay and work in my Chance turns to watch TV. Franklin takes Hayes to a side of the room.
CHANCE: I would like to stay and work in my Chance turns to watch TV. Franklin takes Hayes to a side of the room.
FRANKLIN: ( quietly ) . What do you make of all this?
HAYES: I really don't know, Tom - he seems so honest and simple. In a way, he's quite charming.
FRANKLIN: ( looks at Chance ) . Yeah.
HAYES: . It's very bizarre - I don't know what to think.
FRANKLIN: Well. He's either very, very bright or very, very dense - he's hard to figure. . Let's just keep everything Franklin takes out some papers, approaches Chance.
FRANKLIN: Mr. Chance, assuming what you say is the truth, I would like to know what sort of claim you are planning to make against the deceased's I'm fine, Thomas. The garden is a healthy one. There is no need for a Good. That's good. Then if you would please sign a paper to that Franklin hands the release to Chance but Chance does not take No, Thomas. I don't know how to Come now, Mr. Chance.
CHANCE: ( does not understand ) I'm fine, Thomas. The garden is a healthy one. There is no need for a Good. That's good. Then if you would please sign a paper to that Franklin hands the release to Chance but Chance does not take No, Thomas. I don't know how to Come now, Mr. Chance.
FRANKLIN: Good. That's good. Then if you would please sign a paper to that Franklin hands the release to Chance but Chance does not take No, Thomas. I don't know how to Come now, Mr. Chance.
CHANCE: No, Thomas. I don't know how to Come now, Mr. Chance.
FRANKLIN: Come now, Mr. Chance.
CHANCE: ( smiles ) I have no claim, Thomas.
FRANKLIN: But you won't sign, correct?
CHANCE: Very well, Mr. Chance - if you insist on dragging this matter on. But I must inform you this house will be closed tomorrow at noon. If indeed, you do reside here, you will have to move out.
FRANKLIN: Very well, Mr. Chance - if you insist on dragging this matter on. But I must inform you this house will be closed tomorrow at noon. If indeed, you do reside here, you will have to move out.
CHANCE: Move out? I don't understand, I think you do, Mr. Chance. However, I will reiterate, this house is closed and you must Call me if you change your mind about signing. C'mon, Sally - let's grab a bite.
FRANKLIN: I think you do, Mr. Chance. However, I will reiterate, this house is closed and you must Call me if you change your mind about signing. C'mon, Sally - let's grab a bite.
HAYES: ( a smile to Chance ) Good day, Mr. Chance.
CHANCE: ( returns smile ) Good day, Sally. Chance watches as they leave, then puts Franklin's card on a desk without ever looking at it and turns to stare at INT. TOWNHOUSE - ATTIC - AFTERNOON A large attic filled with the Old Man's possessions of the past. Chance enters, turns on an old black-and-white TV with a magnifying lens attached to the front. As it plays, he selects a fine leather suitcase from several, takes a hand made suit from a long rack.
CHANCE: ( friendly ) . Excuse me, would you please tell me where I could find a garden to work in? They turn to him as one, silent, amazed that this White trespasser would intrude on their jiving.
LOLO: What you growin', man? The leader of the gang, ABBAZ, shuts up Lolo with an elbow and moves menacingly forward.
ABBAZ: ( nose to nose with Chance ) . What you doin' here, boy?
CHANCE: I had to leave my garden. I want to find another.
ABBAZ: Bullshit. Who sent you here, boy? Did that chickenshit asshole Raphael send you here, boy?
CHANCE: No. Thomas Franklin told me that I had to leave the Old Man's house, he's dead now, you know.
ABBAZ: Dead, my ass! Now get this, honkie - you go tell Raphael that I ain't takin' no jive from no Western Union messenger! You tell that asshole, if he got somethin' to tell me to get his ass here You got that, boy? Chance smiles at Abbaz and reaches into his pocket.
CHANCE: Yes. I understand. If I see Raphael I will tell him. Chance points the changer at Abbaz and clicks it three times, tries to change the picture. Abbaz immediately pulls out a switchblade, whips the blade open.
ABBAZ: ( holds knife at Chance ) Now, move, honkie! Before I cut your white ass! Chance, disappointed that the changer did not work, returns it to his pocket.
CHANCE: Yes. Of course. Good day. Abbaz, Lolo and the gang watch him go, then begin to buzz with excitement: "Who the fuck died?" "Why'd he pull that changer on us, man?" "The Old Man died, must be Papa Joe!" "He's some weird honkie, man."
CHANCE: I'm very hungry now. Would you please bring me my lunch? The woman looks up to Chance, becomes very frightened. She turns and half-runs into a sleazy bar for safety. Chance watches after her for a moment, then continues along.
CHANCE: I have seen your game! I have watched Elvin Hayes play it many times! They call him "Big E!" The boys ignore him, Chance walks away.
CHANCE: Excuse me. . That tree is very sick. It should be cared for. The Policeman looks at the tree, then at Chance, figures a man dressed that well must be important.
POLICEMAN: Yes sir. I'll report it right away.
CHANCE: Yes. That would be a good thing to do. Good day.
POLICEMAN: Good day. The Policeman takes out his walkie-talkie as Chance walks EXT. BUSINESS DISTRICT - EVENING A fashionable area. Expensive shops, well-kept streets and sidewalks. A television store has caught Chance's eye. He stands by the display window, looks in at a dozen or so color TVs, all turned on, playing various channels. A video camera points outward from a corner of the window and is focused on the sidewalk to allow potential customers to see themselves live on an Advent TV. Chance is intrigued by his own image. He poses, lifts one arm, then the other to make sure that it is really him on television. He moves forward, smiles, then moves slowly backward, notices himself become smaller on the screen. He steps back off the curb, frowns as his likeness disappears from frame on the Advent. Standing between two parked cars, Chance takes out his remote control, clicks it at the Advent. Four or five other sets in the window change channels, but he does not reappear on the giant screen. As he does this, the car to his,left, a large, American-made limousine, backs up. The car bumps Chance, pins him against the car to his right. Chance cries out in pain, drops his suitcase, his changer, and bangs his hand on the trunk of the limo. The chauffeur, DAVID, and the liveryman, JEFFREY, immediately jump from the car, run back to Chance.
DAVID: I'm very sorry, sir. I. David and Jeffrey reach out to help, but Chance is wedged solidly between the two cars.
CHANCE: ( in pain ) . I can't move. My leg.
DAVID: ( rushes back to limo ) . My Lord.
JEFFREY: This is terrible, sir - I hope you're not badly injured.
CHANCE: No. I'm not badly injured. But my leg is very sore. David pulls the car forward, freeing Chance. A few bystanders begin to gather as Jeffrey helps Chance to the sidewalk.
JEFFREY: Can you walk? It's not broken, is It's very sore. David gets out of the car, comes back.
CHANCE: ( leans against limo, holds It's very sore. David gets out of the car, comes back.
DAVID: Perhaps I should call an ambulance. A BYSTANDER interrupts.
BYSTANDER: Somebody ought to call the police!
CHANCE: ( looks over, smiles ) There's no need for police, it's just my leg. During this, the rear door of the limo opens and EVE RAND steps out. Eve is in her late thirties, has the look of a traditional New England lady. She watches as Jeffrey tends to I don't think we should call anyone just yet, it may not even be all that serious.
JEFFREY: I don't think we should call anyone just yet, it may not even be all that serious.
CHANCE: ( obviously hurting ) I agree.
JEFFREY: Let's have a look, do you mind?
CHANCE: Of course. I would like to look. Chance bends, raises his trouser leg. A red-bluish swollen bruise, three inches in diameter, is forming on his calf.
JEFFREY: It's starting to swell, is it Eve moves closer to Chance, looks at the bruise.
CHANCE: Eve moves closer to Chance, looks at the bruise.
EVE: ( to Chance ) . Won't you let us do something for you? Your leg should be examined, we could take you to a ( smiles at Eve ) There's no need for a hospital.
CHANCE: ( smiles at Eve ) There's no need for a hospital.
EVE: Why, there certainly is. You must see a doctor, I insist on it. Please, let us take you. Eve turns to get back into the limo. David goes with her to hold the door.
DAVID: I'm terribly sorry, Mrs. Rand, I never saw the man.
EVE: Oh, I don't think it was anyone's fault, David.
DAVID: Thank you, ma'am. Chance is hesitant about getting in the car. Jeffrey offers a helping hand.
JEFFREY: Please, sir.
CHANCE: I've never ridden in an automobile.
JEFFREY: ( a beat ) I assure you, sir, David is a very careful driver. Please, won't you let us take you?
CHANCE: ( looks at the car, then . Yes. You can take me.
JEFFREY: Very good. Jeffrey assists Chance into the rear seat of the limo.
CHANCE: ( as he gets in ) . My suitcase.
JEFFREY: Yes sir. I'll take care of that. Jeffrey closes the door, goes back to pick up Chance's suitcase, does not notice the remote control. As Jeffrey puts Chance's bag into the trunk, we see the personalized license plate "RAND l."
EVE: I hope you're comfortable.
CHANCE: Yes. I am.
EVE: These can be such trying situations everyone seems to make such a to-do over a simple little accident. Of course, they can be very frightening, and I must apologize for David, he's never had an accident before.
CHANCE: Yes. He's a very careful driver.
EVE: . Why, yes, he is. Is your leg feeling any better?
CHANCE: It's feeling better, but it's still very sore.
EVE: I see. . Say, would you mind seeing our family doctor?
CHANCE: ( doesn't understand ) Your family doctor?
EVE: Yes. My husband has been very ill. His doctor and nurses are staying with us. Those hospitals can be so impersonal - why, it might be hours before you are treated.
CHANCE: I agree.
EVE: Fine, it will save a lot of unnecessary fuss and it will be so much more pleasant for you. David, we'll just go on home. Jeffrey, would you call and let them know?
JEFFREY: Yes ma'am. Eve presses a button, the glass partition closes. As the window rolls up behind him, Jeffrey dials the limo telephone. There is a moment of silence. Eve, still a bit on edge from the accident and feeling a bit uncomfortable with a stranger in the car, presses another button. The limo's bar moves out, revealing a row of decanters and glasses.
EVE: Would you care for a drink?
CHANCE: Yes. Thank you. As Eve pours cognac into a monogrammed crystal glass, Chance notices the limo's TV set.
EVE: ( a bit surprised ) Oh? Certainly. She hands Chance the cognac, turns on the TV.
CHANCE: Hello, Eve. Chance takes a sip of the cognac, is not accustomed to alcohol, coughs. There is another moment of silence.
EVE: May I ask your name?
CHANCE: ( with a slight cough ) My name is Chance.
EVE: Pardon me, was that Mr. Chance?
CHANCE: ( still indistinct ) No. I'm a gardener.
EVE: Oh. Mr. Gardiner. Mr. Chauncey Gardiner. You're not related to Basil and Perdita Gardiner are you?
CHANCE: No, Eve. I'm not related to Basil and Perdita.
EVE: Oh. Well, they're just a wonderful couple, we've been friends for years. We visit their island quite Chance reaches out to change the channel on the TV, suddenly realizes he doesn't have his remote control. He starts going through his pockets, searches for it.
CHANCE: Yes. I lost my remote control.
EVE: Oh. Well, I'm very sorry. Another pause, Chance reaches out, changes channels on TV.
CHANCE: I like to watch. This is fine. Chance watches the news. Eve sips on her cognac as David eases the limo out of the city of Washington.
EVE: I can see that it must be very important for you to stay informed of all the latest events.
CHANCE: I admire that in a person. As for myself, I find there is so much to assimilate that it can become quite muddling at times. Chance nods, changes the channel, watches a Mighty Mouse cartoon. Eve looks at him perplexed, then takes it for a joke and smiles.
EVE: I admire that in a person. As for myself, I find there is so much to assimilate that it can become quite muddling at times. Chance nods, changes the channel, watches a Mighty Mouse cartoon. Eve looks at him perplexed, then takes it for a joke and smiles.
WILSON: Good evening, Mrs. Rand.
EVE: Good evening, Wilson.
WILSON: I shall take the gentleman to the third floor guest suite, ma'am. Dr. Allenby is standing by.
EVE: Thank you, Wilson. That will be Perkins and Jeffrey carry Chance in the chair up the steps and into the house. Eve and Wilson follow.
EVE: Thank you, Greta. I'll be with Mr. Rand if I'm Yes, ma'am.
WILSON: Yes, ma'am.
EVE: ( to Chance ) I'll see you after the doctor has a look at your leg, Mr. Gardiner.
CHANCE: ( looking around mansion ) Yes, I think he should examine my Eve watches as Wilson wheels Chance around a corner.
CHANCE: ( looks to Wilson ) . I've never been in one of Wilson thinks that Chance is talking about the wheelchair.
WILSON: It's one of Mr. Rand's. Since he's been ill. Chance looks around the elevator.
CHANCE: Does it have a television?
WILSON: ( laughs ) No - but Mr. Rand does have one with an electric motor, that way he can get around by himself.
CHANCE: I see. Chance again checks out the elevator.
WILSON: How long? I don't know, see what the doctor says . The elevator stops on the third floor.
CONSTANCE: Good evening, Mrs. Rand.
EVE: Good evening, Constance. Ben Rand perks up as he sees Eve crossing to him. He is in his sixties, maintains an inner strength and dignity despite the sapping effects of his illness.
RAND: ( with weakness ) . Eve. Eve kisses him, holds his hand.
EVE: Oh, Ben - I miss you so when I'm out. How are you feeling?
RAND: Tired. And I'm getting tired of being so tired. Other than that, I'm doing very well.
EVE: No headaches?
RAND: No, it's been a good day - better than yours, from what I've been You heard?
EVE: ( holds his hand against You heard?
RAND: I may be a shut-in, but I do not lack for news. I'm sorry you had to go through all that.
EVE: Oh, it wasn't all that bad, darling. We were fortunate that Mr. Gardiner turned out to be so Reasonable? Good, I'd like to meet a reasonable man. Why don't you ask this Gardiner to join us for Do you feel well enough for that?
RAND: Reasonable? Good, I'd like to meet a reasonable man. Why don't you ask this Gardiner to join us for Do you feel well enough for that?
EVE: ( sits on the side of the Do you feel well enough for that?
RAND: ( smiles ) Hah!. Tell me the truth, Eve - if I wait until I feel better, will I ever meet the man? There is silence from Eve. Rand squeezes her hand, turns to Constance! I want new blood tonight, I'm getting up for dinner.
CONSTANCE: But, Mr. Rand.
RAND: Don't argue, tell Robert I want new . Ask him to dinner. Rand pulls Eve's hand close, kisses it.
ALLENBY: The injection will ease the pain and swelling, Mr. Gardiner.
CHANCE: I understand. I've seen it done Now, you'll barely feel this. It won't hurt at all. Allenby administers the injection, Chance reacts from the You were wrong, it did hurt.
ALLENBY: Now, you'll barely feel this. It won't hurt at all. Allenby administers the injection, Chance reacts from the You were wrong, it did hurt.
CHANCE: You were wrong, it did hurt.
ALLENBY: ( a chuckle ) But not for long. As Allenby puts a band-aid on Chance's ass, Chance spots a remote control for the TV on the bedside table. He reaches out, picks it up.
CHANCE: Yes. I think so, too.
ALLENBY: However, with injuries such as this, I have run into minor hemorrhaging, which really isn't too serious at the time, but can cause secondary problems if not looked after.
CHANCE: I see. Chance turns on the TV.
ALLENBY: ( a look to the TV, then to You can pull your trousers up, now.
CHANCE: Oh, fine.
ALLENBY: ( as Chance pulls up pants ) Just to take the proper precautions, Mr. Gardiner, I'd recommend we take you downstairs and X-ray your leg. ( no reaction from Chance, . By the way, Mr. Gardiner, I would like to ask you something straight out.
CHANCE: ( doesn't understand ) . Straight out?
ALLENBY: Yes. Are you planning on making any sort of claim against the Rand's?
CHANCE: ( after a beat ) Claim.? . Oh, claim, that's what Thomas asked me.
ALLENBY: Thomas? Who's Thomas?
CHANCE: Thomas Franklin, an attorney.
ALLENBY: An attorney?
CHANCE: ( turns back to TV ) ( suddenly very cold ) Then you wish to handle this matter through your attorneys?
ALLENBY: ( suddenly very cold ) Then you wish to handle this matter through your attorneys?
CHANCE: There's no need for a claim, the garden is a healthy one.
ALLENBY: ( gives Chance a look ) Oh, I see. ( warms up ) . Well, then. You're a very funny man, Mr. Gardiner. You caught me off guard, I must admit.
CHANCE: ( changes channels, sits on Thank you.
ALLENBY: Good, keep your weight off that leg, Mr. Gardiner. In fact, it would be best if you could stay here for a day or two, if that would be would be possible. Since Benjamin became ill we have our own hospital downstairs. I can promise you the finest in care, unless, of course, you would prefer to go Yes, I could stay here. Thank you.
CHANCE: Yes, I could stay here. Thank you.
ALLENBY: Fine. Would you like me to speak to your personal physician?
CHANCE: Allenby waits for Chance to say more, he does not. Finally, Allenby picks up his bag, heads for the door.
ALLENBY: ( stops by door ) I'll send Wilson up to take you for X-rays, Mr. Gardiner. Feel free to use the telephone, and please let me know if you have any discomfort.
CHANCE: ( clicking changer ) Yes, I will. Allenby gives him a look, then leaves. Chance watches an old movie of a man lighting a cigar. The man enjoys the cigar, blows out smoke. The scene seems to 'sink into' Chance's EXT. MANSION - PATIO - NIGHT Eve sits next to a roaring patio fireplace with a steaming cup of tea. Allenby comes outside, joins her.
ALLENBY: Good God, Eve - you'll freeze out I wanted some fresh air, Robert. How is Mr. Gardiner?
EVE: I wanted some fresh air, Robert. How is Mr. Gardiner?
ALLENBY: A rather large contusion, but I don't feel there is any serious damage. I'd like to keep an eye on him, though - I suggested that he stay here for a couple of days.
EVE: Stay here? Is that necessary?
ALLENBY: Not necessary, but preferable. I don't think he'll be a bother, he seems like a most refreshing sort of man.
EVE: Yes, he is different. Not the kind of person one usually meets in How true. Mr. Gardiner may be a welcome change of pace.
ALLENBY: How true. Mr. Gardiner may be a welcome change of pace.
EVE: He's very intense, and internal, don't you think?
ALLENBY: At times, yes. But that's not an uncommon reaction to such an accident. Actually, I found him to have quite a sense of humor.
EVE: Good. It might be pleasant for a couple of days. . Robert. Is there any No, Eve. I'm sorry. Eve is silent for a moment, looks out to the darkness.
ALLENBY: No, Eve. I'm sorry. Eve is silent for a moment, looks out to the darkness.
EVE: . Sometimes when I see Ben I could swear that he's getting stronger. Something that he might say, the way he moves, or a look in his eyes - makes me feel that this is all a nightmare and that he'll be better soon. It's just so hard to believe what's really Allenby reaches out, holds Eve's hand.
CHANCE: ( looks back to elevator ) . That is a very small room.
WILSON: ( laughs ) Yes sir, I guess that's true smallest room in the house.
CHANCE: ( glancing around ) Yes. It seems to be. Wilson takes this as another joke, chuckles as he wheels Chance toward Rand's hospital room.
RAND: Welcome to Rand Memorial Hospital, Mr. Gardiner.
CHANCE: ( looks around room ) . I see. Wilson pushes Chance to the X-Ray machine, where the technician, BILLINGS, a Black man, waits. As Wilson and Billings help Chance onto the X-Ray table, Chance's face brightens up.
RAND: Sure you do. This ward is air tight, I have a little extra oxygen pumped in, keeps my spirits up.
CHANCE: Yes. I like that very much.
BILLINGS: ( lining up Chance's leg ) This won't take long, Mr. Gardiner. Please hold still when I ask. Chance stares at Billings, reacts to him being Black.
CHANCE: ( to Billings ) Do you know Raphael?
BILLINGS: No sir, I don't believe I do.
CHANCE: Oh. I have a message for him.
BILLINGS: Yes, sir.
CHANCE: A Black man gave me the message.
BILLINGS: Well, I still don't believe I know the man, Mr. Gardiner. Now, hold Rand looks over as Billings takes the X-Ray.
RAND: Aplastic anemia, Mr. Gardiner - aplastic anemia. Chance smiles to Rand.
CHANCE: ( still smiles at Rand ) Yes. You look very sick.
BILLINGS: Hold still, please, Mr. Gardiner.
RAND: ( a laugh ) I am very sick, and, as you can see by all this paraphernalia, I am very wealthy. I think I would rather be wealthy and sick than poor and sick.
CHANCE: ( looks around the room ) I understand. I've never seen anything like this on television.
BILLINGS: Please, hold still, Mr. Gardiner.
CONSTANCE: You too, Mr. Rand, you must stay Rand lays his head back.
RAND: . We're prisoners, Mr. Gardiner - we're prisoners of tubes and I agree.
CHANCE: I agree.
RAND: ( flat on his back ) . You will join us for dinner, won't you, Mr. Gardiner?
CHANCE: ( also flat on his back ) Yes. I am very hungry.
RAND: . So am I, my boy - so am I.
RAND: I know exactly what you mean. Today the businessman is at the mercy of kid-lawyers from the SEC. All they want to do is regulate our natural growth! It's happening across the To everyone, I'm afraid. The Government controls are so restricting that the Medical Profession, as we know it, is being legislated out of existence.
ALLENBY: To everyone, I'm afraid. The Government controls are so restricting that the Medical Profession, as we know it, is being legislated out of existence.
RAND: Of course! By kid-lawyers! Eve turns to Chance.
EVE: Won't your injury prevent you from attending to business, Mr. No. It won't do that.
CHANCE: No. It won't do that.
EVE: . Would you like us to notify anyone for you?
CHANCE: No. The Old Man died and Louise There is a moment of silence.
EVE: Oh. I'm very sorry. Well, if you have any need for any of our facilities, please do not hesitate to ask.
RAND: Do you need a secretary?
CHANCE: No, thank you. My house has been Oh. When you say 'Your house has been closed', you mean to say that your business was shut down?
RAND: Oh. When you say 'Your house has been closed', you mean to say that your business was shut down?
CHANCE: Yes. Shut down and locked by the What'd I tell you? Kid-lawyers! The S.E.C.! Damn them!
RAND: What'd I tell you? Kid-lawyers! The S.E.C.! Damn them!
EVE: I hope that staying here won't be an inconvenience for you.
CHANCE: No. I like it here.
RAND: That's good, Mr. Gardiner. Or may I call you Chauncey?
CHANCE: ( agreeable to being called Yes. Chauncey is fine.
RAND: And I'm Ben.
ALLENBY: ( smiles to Chance ) . And please call me Robert.
CHANCE: Yes, Robert. I will.
RAND: So tell me, Chauncey, what are your plans now? Chance looks around the room.
CHANCE: Does this house have a garden? Allenby gives Chance a look.
RAND: Do we have a garden? Hah! Tomorrow, Chauncey, you will see our gardens.
CHANCE: I see. I would like to work in your Oh, I know exactly what you mean. I sometimes enjoy puttering around myself, such a pleasant way to forget one's troubles.
EVE: ( laughs ) Oh, I know exactly what you mean. I sometimes enjoy puttering around myself, such a pleasant way to forget one's troubles.
CHANCE: I am a very good gardener.
RAND: A gardener! Well put, Chauncey excellent! Isn't that what a businessman is? A gardener? A person that makes flinty soil productive with the labor of his own hands, who waters it with the sweat from his own brow, and who creates a place of value for his family and community? Yes, Chauncey, what a brilliant metaphor yes, indeed, a productive businessman is a laborer in his own Thank you, Ben. The garden that I left was such a place. Everything which grew there was with the labor of my own hands. I planted seeds and watered them and watched everything grow.
CHANCE: Thank you, Ben. The garden that I left was such a place. Everything which grew there was with the labor of my own hands. I planted seeds and watered them and watched everything grow.
RAND: ( weakly ) But I don't have that any more. ( points to ceiling ) . All that's left for me now is the room upstairs.
CHANCE: But I don't have that any more. . All that's left for me now is the room upstairs.
RAND: Now, wait a minute, Chauncey you are young, you are healthy, for God's sake don't give up on yourself! You have to fight! You can't let those bastards keep you down! I don't want to hear any more from you about the 'Room Upstairs'. That's where I'm going soon. There is a long pause. Chance looks up, then smiles at Rand.
CHANCE: It's a very pleasant room, Ben.
RAND: ( laughs ) Yes, I'm sure it is. That's what they say, anyway. Another period of silence. The servants bustle around the room as Allenby studies Chance.
RAND: . I don't know what you've heard about me, Chauncey, but I'm sure you know everything there is to know. Cigar? Rand holds out humidor to Chance.
CHANCE: Yes, thank you. No Ben. I don't know everything about you. Rand smiles as he takes a cigar for himself.
RAND: . No, of course you don't. Excuse me for being so presumptuous. No man knows everything about another man - however, very few are honest enough to admit it.
ALLENBY: That is so true. You're different, Chauncey. Quite different than most men.
CHANCE: Thank you, Robert. Rand lights his own cigar, then hands an ornate lighter to . You know, Chauncey, there are thousands of American businessmen, large and small, that share your plight. I've been concerned with the situation for some time now. Chance, not knowing to bite off the tip, tries to light the cigar like the man on TV. It will not light.
RAND: ( picks up pool cue, weakly . You know, Chauncey, there are thousands of American businessmen, large and small, that share your plight. I've been concerned with the situation for some time now. Chance, not knowing to bite off the tip, tries to light the cigar like the man on TV. It will not light.
RAND: . I'd like to offer the decent 'Gardeners' of the business community a helping hand. After all, they are our strongest defense against the pollutants who so threaten our basic freedoms and the well-being of our middle class. Tell me, would you have any thoughts on such a program? Chance puts the unlit cigar in the ashtray, smiles at Allenby, then answers Rand.
CHANCE: No, Ben.
RAND: ( a smile ) Reluctant to speak, eh, Chauncey? Well, I can understand that. When a man loses everything, anger has a tendency to block out reason for a time. Just give it some thought, work with the idea, I'm sure you'll have plenty to say in a few days.
CHANCE: I could give it some thought, Ben, but my leg is very sore.
RAND: . Oh? Robert, take a look, would you?
ALLENBY: Some pain is to be expected. . And I think what would be best for the two of you is a good night's rest. . It's late, I'm afraid it's time for my patients to prepare for bed.
RAND: ( puts down pool cue ) We have common foes, Chauncey - kid lawyers and our physician!
CHANCE: I agree. Allenby laughs as he takes Rand's cigar from him, snuffs it in the ashtray.
WILSON: ( laughing, trying to . Sorry, sir - I just couldn't contain myself. I knew you were going to come out with another one of your jests about the elevator. Excuse me, sir. The elevator stops, the door opens.
CHANCE: ( looks back as the door . Hmmm. Elevator.
WILSON: ( laughs again ) . Yes sir - elevator! Wilson stops laughing, becomes the stone-faced servant once again as he notices Eve coming out of her bedroom. Wilson stops wheeling Chance, stands stiffly at attention as Eve and Chance talk.
EVE: Chauncey, I wanted to tell you how dreadful I feel about the accident today, but that I'm delighted that you are staying with us.
CHANCE: Thank you, Eve - I like this house very much.
EVE: . And Ben is just mad about you - you've lifted his spirits so - it's just. Well, it's just a real pleasure having you with us.
CHANCE: Ben is very ill, Eve - I've seen that before.
EVE: Yes. I know, Chauncey.
CHANCE: I like Ben very much. He reminds me of the Old Man.
EVE: He does.?
CHANCE: Yes. Are you going to leave and close the house when he dies? Eve is not prepared for such a question.
EVE: . Why. No, I don't think so.
CHANCE: That's good. Chance smiles at Eve and there is a moment of silence before Eve steps back into her bedroom.
EVE: . Good night, Chauncey.
CHANCE: Good night, Eve. Eve closes the door. Wilson wheels Chance down the hallway toward the guest room.
LEWIS: Did you want a car, sir?
CHANCE: Yes. I would like a car.
LEWIS: Yes, sir. Lewis goes to his post, picks up a phone. As Chance looks at the surroundings, Allenby and Wilson, with Chance's wheelchair, come out of the house.
ALLENBY: ( frowns as he sees Chance Chauncey, there you are. What are you doing on that leg?
CHANCE: It's fine today, Robert.
ALLENBY: Shame on you, Chauncey - you should let me be the judge of that. Please, sit in the chair. Wilson pushes the wheelchair to Chance, he sits.
CHANCE: Yes, Robert. But it's not bad. A limousine pulls up to the front of the mansion, waits for . Benjamin has been hounding me to allow him to address the annual meeting of his Financial Institute today, but obviously, the strain would be impossible. How about here, Chauncey, any soreness?
ALLENBY: ( continues examining ) . Benjamin has been hounding me to allow him to address the annual meeting of his Financial Institute today, but obviously, the strain would be impossible. How about here, Chauncey, any soreness?
CHANCE: Hardly any, Robert. Lewis, the attendant, interrupts.
LEWIS: Your limousine, sir.
CHANCE: Oh, thank you.
ALLENBY: ( reacting to limo ) . Were you going somewhere?
CHANCE: No, Robert.
ALLENBY: ( a beat ) . Oh. ( checks leg ) . My God, I only wish that Benjamin had your recuperative powers. Anyway, the President offered to sit in for Ben at the meeting, quite a nice gesture, I felt. He's due here soon, I Yes, Robert. I know about the ( mildly surprised ) . Oh? You've heard?
CHANCE: Yes, Robert. I know about the . Oh? You've heard?
ALLENBY: ( mildly surprised ) . Oh? You've heard?
CHANCE: Yes. Ben called me. He wants me to meet the President.
ALLENBY: ( stands ) He does, does he?
CHANCE: Yes, Ben told me to be in his room at ten o'clock.
ALLENBY: Why, that's terrific, Chauncey.
CHANCE: How do I know when it's ten A long look from Allenby, then he looks at his watch.
ALLENBY: . It's five of, you'd best get on in there.
CHANCE: Thank you, Robert. Wilson begins to push Chance.
ALLENBY: Hell yes - walk. You're meeting the President, aren't you?
CHANCE: ( gets out of chair ) Oh, really? Allenby, a bit puzzled, watches as Chance goes into the INT. RAND MANSION - HALLWAY - MORNING Chance limps aimlessly through a hallway. He stops, admires a large tapestry on the wall. A servant, SMYTHE, notices Chance appears confused, approaches him.
SMYTHE: May I help you, Mr. Gardiner?
CHANCE: ( with a smile ) Yes. I would like to go to Rand Memorial Hospital.
SMYTHE: ( a pause ) . Sir?
CHANCE: There is another long pause.
SMYTHE: . Did you wish to see someone, Yes, I would like to see Ben.
CHANCE: Yes, I would like to see Ben.
SMYTHE: Oh, Mr. Rand, of course. Right this way, sir. Chance follows Smythe down the hall.
RAND: Chauncey, up and around this morning, are you?
CHANCE: Yes, Ben. My leg is not very sore.
RAND: Well, that's good news, my boy.
CHANCE: You're looking much better today, Hah! It's all make-up, Chauncey. I asked nurse Teresa to fix me up, I didn't want the President to think I was going to die during our I understand.
RAND: Hah! It's all make-up, Chauncey. I asked nurse Teresa to fix me up, I didn't want the President to think I was going to die during our I understand.
CHANCE: I understand.
RAND: No one likes a dying man, my boy - because few know what death is. All we know is the terror of it. But you're an exception, Chauncey - that's what I admire in you, your marvelous balance. You don't stagger back and forth between fear and hope - you're a truly peaceful Thank you, Ben. . The nurse did a very good job, The nurses turn, look at Chance.
CHANCE: Thank you, Ben. . The nurse did a very good job, The nurses turn, look at Chance.
WOLTZ: Good morning, Mr. Wilson.
WILSON: Good morning, Mr. Woltz, nice to see you again.
WOLTZ: Thank you. How have you been?
WILSON: Fine, thank you. We have an additional guest with us today, Mr. Chauncey Gardiner.
WOLTZ: ( reads list ) I see. ( turns to other men ) Okay, let's go to work. The eight servants pair up with the eight men in suits and go into the house.
RAND: Yes, when I was younger I had thoughts about public office. But I found, Chauncey - that I was able to contribute more as a private citizen. of course, my wealth provided me with considerable influence, but I've tried, believe me, not to misuse that power. It's extremely important, Chauncey, when one is in a position of eminence, that he does not allow himself to become blinded to the needs of the country. The temptations are strong, and I've been labeled a 'kingmaker' by many, but I have tried to stay open to voices of the people. I have tried to remain honest to myself.
CHANCE: ( changing channels ) I see, Ben.
RAND: . Maybe one day you shall find yourself in a similar position, Chauncey. Maybe one day.
MRS. AUBREY: ( into phone ) Yes. Oh, very good, Lewis, thank Mrs. Aubrey hangs up, picks up another phone, pushes a INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING Rand smiles at Chance as the phone rings.
RAND: He's here. Yes, Mrs. Aubrey? Fine. Show the President to the library, we'll be along in a few Rand hangs up the phone, turns to Chance with a twinkle in his eyes.
TERESA: But, Mr. Rand.
RAND: ( puts an arm around Chance Shall we go, Chauncey?
CHANCE: Yes, Ben. That's a good idea. Rand walks slowly, clings to the limping Chance tightly as they leave the room.
RAND: Mrs. Aubrey, have you received the papers on the Caracas agreement?
MRS. AUBREY: Yes, sir. They're ready for you to A good woman, Mrs. Aubrey.
RAND: ( turns to Chance ) A good woman, Mrs. Aubrey.
CHANCE: ( seeing her for first I agree, Ben. They shuffle off down the hallway. Chance smiles at the Secret Service men that they pass.
WOLTZ: Good morning, Mr. Rand.
RAND: Woltz, how have you been?
WOLTZ: ( passes detector over Just fine, thank you, sir. ( turns to Chance ) And you must be Mr. Gardiner.
CHANCE: ( passes detector over Just a formality, Mr. Gardiner.
WOLTZ: ( passes detector over Just a formality, Mr. Gardiner.
CHANCE: ( as he finishes ) Thank you very much. Wilson knocks lightly, then opens the library door, Rand and Chance enter.
PRESIDENT: ( very weak ) . Mr. President, how good to see It's so good to see you too, Ben, you look terrific!
RAND: ( very weak ) . Mr. President, how good to see It's so good to see you too, Ben, you look terrific!
PRESIDENT: It's so good to see you too, Ben, you look terrific!
RAND: ( barely able to stand ) I'm not convinced of that, Mr. President, but your visit has raised my spirits.
PRESIDENT: Well, I'm delighted to be here, my friend. I've missed you. Here, sit down, get off your feet. As Rand sinks into the chair, Chance approaches the President with both hands outstretched.
CHANCE: Good morning, Mr. President.
PRESIDENT: ( smiling ) . Hello. Chance and the President exchange a two-handed handshake. Rand, still weak from standing, catches his breath and introduces Chance.
RAND: Mr. President, I'd like you to meet my dear friend, Mr. Chauncey Mr. Gardiner, my pleasure.
PRESIDENT: Mr. Gardiner, my pleasure.
CHANCE: You look much taller on television, Mr. President.
PRESIDENT: ( a beat ) . Oh, really.
RAND: ( smiling ) You will find that my house guest does not bandy words, Mr. The President gives Chance a look, then laughs.
PRESIDENT: Well, Mr. Gardiner, that's just fine with me - I'm a man that appreciates a frank discussion. Be seated, please, Mr. Gardiner.
CHANCE: ( sitting ) Yes, I will.
PRESIDENT: ( also sits ) Now, Ben, did you happen to get a chance to. Chance perks up at the mention of his name, interrupts.
CHANCE: There is a beat as the President looks at Chance quizzically, then he continues.
PRESIDENT: I just wondered if you had gone over my speech, Ben.
RAND: Yes, I did.
PRESIDENT: . Well?
RAND: Overall - pretty good. But, Mr. President, I think it's very dangerous to resort to temporary measures at this stage of the game.
PRESIDENT: Well, Ben. I.
RAND: I sympathize with your position, Mr. President, I know how difficult it is to be straightforward, the reaction to such a speech could be That's too big a risk, I can't take the chance.
PRESIDENT: That's too big a risk, I can't take the chance.
CHANCE: ( again perks up ) Once again, the President gives Chance a puzzled look.
ALLENBY: Oh. Hello.
RIFF: ( entering ) Good morning. I'm Riff, Secret . Yes. Of course. Perkins watches curiously as Riff passes the metal detector over Allenby's clothing.
ALLENBY: . Yes. Of course. Perkins watches curiously as Riff passes the metal detector over Allenby's clothing.
RAND: . There is no longer any margin for inflation, it has gone as far as it can, you've reached your limits on taxation, dependence on foreign energy has reached a crisis, and, from where I see it, Mr. President, the Free Enterprise System has reached the breaking point. We are on the brink of another crash from which recovery might not be possible.
PRESIDENT: It's that serious, huh?
RAND: I'm afraid so. The President now looks nearly as bad as Rand. He sits, turns to Chance.
PRESIDENT: Do you agree with Ben, Mr. Gardiner? Are we finished? Or do you think we can stimulate growth through temporary incentives?
CHANCE: ( a beat ) As long as the roots are not severed, all is well and all will be well in the garden.
PRESIDENT: ( a pause ) . In the garden?
CHANCE: That is correct. In a garden, growth has its season. There is spring and summer, but there is also fall and winter. And then spring and summer again.
PRESIDENT: ( staring at Chance ) . Spring and summer. ( confused ) Yes, I see. Fall and winter. ( smiles at Chance ) Yes, indeed. ( a beat ) Could you go through that one more time, please, Mr. Gardiner?
RAND: I think what my most insightful friend is saying, Mr. President, is that we welcome the inevitable seasons of nature, yet we are upset by the seasons of our economy.
CHANCE: Yes. That is correct.
PRESIDENT: ( pleased ) .Well, Mr. Gardiner, I must admit, that is one of the most refreshing and optimistic statements I've heard in a very, very long time. The President puts out his cigarette, rises.
CHANCE: Yes. It has.
PRESIDENT: . You will honor me and my family with a visit, won't you?
CHANCE: Yes. I will.
PRESIDENT: Wonderful, we'll all look forward to seeing you. Is Eve around? I'd like to say No, she flew up to Boston for another charity event. She'll be sorry to have missed you.
RAND: No, she flew up to Boston for another charity event. She'll be sorry to have missed you.
PRESIDENT: I'm sorry, too. Well, Nancy wanted me to send along her best to the two of you - and, Ben, I want to thank you for your time and Nonsense, Mr. President - I thank you for coming to spend time with a dying man.
RAND: Nonsense, Mr. President - I thank you for coming to spend time with a dying man.
PRESIDENT: Now, Ben, I won't have any of that. Why don't you listen to your good friend Chauncey this is a time to think of life! The President clasps Rand's hand.
RAND: You're right, Mr. President I don't like feeling sorry for myself.
PRESIDENT: Take care of yourself, Ben.
RAND: You take care too, Bobby.
PRESIDENT: ( as he turns to go, a Mr. Gardiner. The President leaves the library and Chance sits back down.
RAND: ( as the door closes ) He's a decent fellow, the President, isn't he?
CHANCE: Yes, Ben - he is.
RAND: He was quite impressed with your comments, Chauncey - he hears my sort of analysis from everyone, but yours, unfortunately - seldom if ever at all.
CHANCE: I'm glad he came, Ben. It was nice talking to the President.
PRESIDENT: Kaufman, I'm going to need information on Mr. Chauncey Gardiner's background.
KAUFMAN: ( makes note of name ) Gardiner, yes, sir.
PRESIDENT: And put it through on a Code Red - I want it as soon as possible.
KAUFMAN: No problem, Chief. They head toward the waiting limousines.
RAND: ( very weak ) . You know, Chauncey, there's something about you. You're direct, you grasp things quickly and you state them plainly. You don't play games with words to protect yourself. I feel I can speak to you frankly. You know what I was talking to you about last night?
CHANCE: ( blankly ) No, Ben.
RAND: Oh, sure you do, the financial assistance program. I think you might be just the man to take charge of such an undertaking. I'd like you to meet with the members of the Board, we'll be able to discuss the matter at greater length at that time.
CHANCE: I understand.
RAND: ( stops outside his door ) And, please, Chauncey - don't rush your decision. I know you're not a man to act on the spur of the Thank you, Ben.
CHANCE: Thank you, Ben.
RAND: And now, Chauncey, I'm afraid you must excuse me - I'm very tired all of a sudden. Wilson and Perkins leave the wheelchairs, assist Rand into his hospital room.
CHANCE: ( as they go in ) I'm sorry that you are so sick, The door closes, Chance limps off down the hall.
EVE: ( approaches Chance, calls ) ( stops, turns ) Hello, Eve.
CHANCE: ( stops, turns ) Hello, Eve.
EVE: Your leg must be getting better.
CHANCE: Yes. It's feeling much better now.
EVE: Good. I'm glad to hear that. . How did you like meeting the Fine. He's very nice.
CHANCE: Fine. He's very nice.
EVE: Yes, he is. I'm sorry I didn't get to see him. They walk along in silence for a moment. Chance sees a huge greenhouse not far from them, heads toward it. Eve turns to him, hesitates, then questions.
CHANCE: Was he a relative? Or an intimate He was a very wealthy man, he looked after me since I was young.
EVE: Was he a relative? Or an intimate He was a very wealthy man, he looked after me since I was young.
CHANCE: ( looking at greenhouse ) He was a very wealthy man, he looked after me since I was young.
EVE: Oh, I see. Your mentor, perhaps?
CHANCE: ( quizzically ) . Mentor.? Eve takes his uncertainty as a reluctance to discuss the Old Forgive me, Chauncey - I didn't mean to pry. You must have been very close to him.
EVE: Forgive me, Chauncey - I didn't mean to pry. You must have been very close to him.
CHANCE: Yes. I was.
EVE: I'm sorry. . And what about Louise? YOU mentioned that she had gone, were you close to her also?
CHANCE: Yes. I liked Louise very much. She was his maid.
EVE: ( relieved ) Oh, his maid!. Stupid me, I thought perhaps she was someone that you may have been romantically involved with.
CHANCE: Oh, no. She brought me my meals.
EVE: ( pleased ) Of course. Eve edges slightly closer to Chance. Chance edges slightly closer to the greenhouse, is fascinated by it.
CHANCE: What is that?
EVE: Our greenhouse.
CHANCE: ( pleased ) Oh, I like that very much.
EVE: Yes, so do we. Chance peeks through one of the windows.
PRESIDENT'S VOICE: . And there are so many of you that have proclaimed that we are on the brink of the worst financial crisis in this nation's history. And there are so many of you demanding that we put into effect drastic measures to alter its course. Well, let me tell you, gentlemen, I have been conducting multiple-level consultations with members of the Cabinet, House and Senate. I have conducted meetings with prominent business leaders throughout the country. And this very morning I had an in-depth discussion with your founder and Chairman-Of-The-Board, Mr. Benjamin Turnbull Rand and his close friend and advisor Mr. Chauncey Rand perks up a bit at this mention. Allenby manages a smile, once again looks at Rand, checking his condition. Eve looks proudly at Chance, who continues to enjoy the oxygen.
ALLENBY: ( motioning toward door ) Excuse us, please. Eve and Chance leave the room as Allenby administers aid to Gentlemen, let us not fear the inevitable chill and storms of autumn and winter, instead, let us anticipate the rapid growth of springtime, let us await the rewards of summer. As in a garden of the earth, let us learn to accept and appreciate the times when the trees are bare as well as the times when we pick the fruit.
PRESIDENT'S VOICE: Gentlemen, let us not fear the inevitable chill and storms of autumn and winter, instead, let us anticipate the rapid growth of springtime, let us await the rewards of summer. As in a garden of the earth, let us learn to accept and appreciate the times when the trees are bare as well as the times when we pick the fruit.
EVE: ( hesitates ) . I'm. ( pause ) . I'm very grateful that you're here, Chauncey. ( pause ) . With us .
CHANCE: So am I, Eve. Allenby comes out the door, his mood is serious, professional. Eve turns quickly, awaits his news.
ALLENBY: ( sits alongside Eve ) . Eve - this has been an exhausting day for Ben.
EVE: ( anxious ) . But he's.?
ALLENBY: He's resting comfortably now. There's no cause for alarm, yet. Mrs. Aubrey comes out of the house.
MRS. AUBREY: Mr. Gardiner, I have a telephone call for you. Sidney Courtney, the financial editor of the Washington Thank you.
CHANCE: ( not moving ) Thank you.
MRS. AUBREY: Would you care to take it, sir?
CHANCE: Chance still does not move. Eve mistakes Chance's not moving for concern for herself. She puts a hand on his shoulder.
EVE: I'll be all right, Chauncey you go ahead with Mrs. Aubrey.
CHANCE: ( rising ) Yes, Eve. You'll be all right. Chance follows Mrs. Aubrey into the house. Eve watches him go, then turns to Allenby.
EVE: . He's such a sensitive man, so INT. RAND MANSION - MRS. AUBREY'S OFFICE - DAY Mrs. Aubrey leads Chance to a phone at one of the desks. The three television sets are on, attract Chance's attention.
CHANCE: ( picks up phone, looks at INT. WASHINGTON POST - COURTNEY'S OFFICE - DAY SID COURTNEY, a Black man in his fifties, wears a rumpled wool jacket, smokes a pipe.
COURTNEY: Hello, Mr. Gardiner. This is Sid Courtney, Washington Post.
CHANCE: Hello, Sid.
COURTNEY: I'm sorry to disturb you, Mr. Gardiner, I know you must be very No. I'm not busy.
CHANCE: ( looking from one TV to No. I'm not busy.
COURTNEY: Then, I'll be brief. I covered the President's speech at the Financial Institute today, and since the Post would like to be as exact as possible, we would appreciate your comments on the meeting that took place between Mr. Rand, the President and yourself.
CHANCE: The President is a nice person. I enjoyed it very much.
COURTNEY: Good, sir. And so, it seems, did the President - but we would like to have some facts; such as, uh. What exactly is the relationship between yourself and that of the First American Financial I think you should ask Mr. Rand Of course. But since he is ill I'm taking the liberty of asking you.
CHANCE: I think you should ask Mr. Rand Of course. But since he is ill I'm taking the liberty of asking you.
COURTNEY: Of course. But since he is ill I'm taking the liberty of asking you.
CHANCE: Yes, that is correct. I think you should ask Mr. Rand that. Courtney doesn't understand but continues his questioning.
COURTNEY: I see. Then one more quick question, Mr. Gardiner; since we at the Post would like to, uh - update our profile on you - what exactly is your business?
CHANCE: I have nothing more to say. Chance hangs up the phone, watches the TVs. Courtney listens to the dial tone, then puts the receiver Typical - no wonder he's so close to Rand.
COURTNEY: ( to himself ) Typical - no wonder he's so close to Rand.
CHANCE: Hmmm. Elevator. He gets in the elevator.
JENNIFER: ( surprised to see him ) Why, hello, Mr. Gardiner - are you looking for someone?
CHANCE: Jennifer gets in the elevator, the doors Close. Chance looks around the basement, puzzled. He had expected to be on the third floor.
MRS. AUBREY: I can't find Mr. Gardiner anywhere.
JENNIFER: He's in the basement.
MRS. AUBREY: What's he doing in the basement?
JENNIFER: I don't know, Mrs. Aubrey. Mrs. Aubrey grabs a notepad, leaves the office.
MRS. AUBREY: Oh, Mr. Gardiner, I've been looking all over.
CHANCE: Oh, yes.
MRS. AUBREY: Morton Hull, the producer of 'This Evening' just called.
CHANCE: Yes, I have seen that show on Of course. They would like you to appear on the show tonight. The Vice President was scheduled, but he had to cancel, and they asked if you would be interested.
MRS. AUBREY: Of course. They would like you to appear on the show tonight. The Vice President was scheduled, but he had to cancel, and they asked if you would be interested.
CHANCE: Yes. I would like to be on that Fine. They felt that since you had such close ties with the President, you would be a splendid choice. . Can I help you? Are you looking for something?
MRS. AUBREY: Fine. They felt that since you had such close ties with the President, you would be a splendid choice. . Can I help you? Are you looking for something?
CHANCE: No. I like this attic very much. Mrs. Aubrey gives him a look, leaves.
PRESIDENT: . Gentlemen, I quoted this man on national television today he is obviously a financial sophisticate of some reknown.
KAUFMAN: Yes, sir - we are aware of all that, but still, we haven't been able to.
PRESIDENT: ( interrupts ) He's an advisor and close personal friend of Rand's! For Christ sakes, they have volumes of data on Yes, Mr. President, we attempted to contact Mr. Rand, but he was too ill to.
KAUFMAN: Yes, Mr. President, we attempted to contact Mr. Rand, but he was too ill to.
PRESIDENT: ( again interrupts ) I do not want Benjamin Rand disturbed! You have other ways of gathering information than to trouble a dying man. Use whatever agencies are necessary to put together a detailed history of Chauncey Gardiner, if you run into problems, alert Honeycutt. ( he stands ) I'll be in the office at seven in the morning and I would like to have it at that time. ( he starts for door ) I've got to take a leak.
KAUFMAN: Right, Chief. As the President goes to the Men's Room, two of the aides reach for telephones.
PERKINS: I believe these garments will be quite appropriate, Mr. Gardiner.
CHANCE: ( eyes on TV ) Yes. They are fine. There is a knock at the door.
PERKINS: Excuse me, sir. Perkins answers the door, it is Eve.
EVE: ( entering ) ( rises ) Hello, Eve.
CHANCE: ( rises ) Hello, Eve.
EVE: Chauncey, I just wanted to wish you well. I know you'll be smashing.
CHANCE: Thank you, Eve.
EVE: And Benjamin sends along his best How is Ben feeling?
CHANCE: How is Ben feeling?
EVE: He's tired, Chauncey - but he's going to watch you tonight. We'll both be watching.
CHANCE: That's good. I like to watch, too.
EVE: I know you do - you and your . Good luck, Chauncey. Eve impulsively steps forward, kisses Chance on the cheek. Chance smiles at her, and Eve, slightly embarrassed, turns and leaves the room. Chance sits back down, watches TV as Perkins attends to his clothes with a whisk broom.
COURTNEY: . Gardiner is laconic, matter-of fact. The scuttlebutt is that he's a strong candidate for one of the vacant seats on the board of First American. But before we can do any sort of a piece on the man, we're going to need facts on his . Kinney, what did you come up . Nothing.
KINNEY: ( after a pause ) . Nothing.
COURTNEY: ( sighs, taps pencil on . Skip the levity, Kinney - what have you got?
KINNEY: ( another pause ) . I realize this sounds banal but there is no information of any sort on Gardiner. We have no material on him - zilch. The room is quiet except for the tapping of Courtney's EXT. TELEVISION STATION - NIGHT The RAND 1 limousine parks in front of the station. As Jeffrey opens the door for Chance, MORTON HULL steps to the Mr. Gardiner, I'm Morton Hull, the producer of 'This Evening.'
HULL: Mr. Gardiner, I'm Morton Hull, the producer of 'This Evening.'
CHANCE: ( as they shake hands ) Hello, Morton. Hull takes Chance into the station.
HULL: Of course, Mr. Gardiner, the fact that you occupy such a position in the world of finance makes you ideally suited to provide our millions of viewers with an explanation of this nation's economic crisis.
CHANCE: I see.
HULL: Do you realize, Mr. Gardiner, that more people will be watching you tonight than all those who have seen theater plays in the last forty years?
CHANCE: Yes. It's a very good show.
HULL: I'm glad you like it, Mr. Gardiner. Hull takes Chance into the MAKE-UP room.
COLSON: ( gives Chance water ) Here you go, Mr. Gardiner.
CHANCE: Thank you. I'm very thirsty.
COLSON: Yes, sir - it's hot under those Colson applies finishing touches to Chance.
HULL: Now, if the host wants to ask you a question, he'll raise his left forefinger to his left eyebrow. Then you'll stop, and he'll say something, and then you'll answer. On the TV, WILLIAM DUPONT, the host, wraps up his talk with his guest.
COLSON: ( a last-minute dab ) Okay, Mr. Gardiner, you're all set. Hull leads Chance out of the makeup room. Colson closes the door, then carefully picks up Chance's water glass, wraps it in Kleenex, puts it in his overcoat pocket.
DUPONT: Ladies and gentlemen, our very distinguished quest, Mr. Chauncey The BAND plays as Chance comes onto the stage. An audience of about three hundred applauds Chance as he appears. Two TV cameras move with him as he walks, with a smile and a limp, to center stage. Dupont shakes Chance's hand, Chance holds Dupont's hand with both of his own.
CHANCE: ( showing Chance to chair ) I'd like to thank you for filling in on such short notice for the Vice President.
DUPONT: ( showing Chance to chair ) I'd like to thank you for filling in on such short notice for the Vice President.
CHANCE: ( sits ) You're welcome.
DUPONT: ( also sitting ) I always find it surprising, Mr. Gardiner, to find men like yourself, who are working so intimately with the President, yet manage to remain relatively Yes. That is surprising.
CHANCE: Yes. That is surprising.
DUPONT: ( a beat ) . Well, your anonymity will be a thing of the past from now on.
CHANCE: ( doesn't understand ) I hope so.
DUPONT: Yes. Of course, you know, Mr. Gardiner, that I always prefer an open and frank conversation with my guests, I hope you don't object to No. I don't object.
CHANCE: No. I don't object.
DUPONT: Fine, then let's get started. The current state of our country is of vital interest to us all, and I would like to know if you agree with the President's view of the Which view? Applause and laughter from the audience. Dupont accustomed to parrying with his guests, asks again.
CHANCE: Which view? Applause and laughter from the audience. Dupont accustomed to parrying with his guests, asks again.
DUPONT: Come now, Mr. Gardiner, before his speech at the Financial Institute the President consulted with you and Benjamin Rand, did he not?
CHANCE: Yes. I was there with Ben.
DUPONT: I know that, Mr. Gardiner.
CHANCE: ( a beat ) Well, let me rephrase the question; the President compared the economy of this country to a garden, and stated that after a period of decline a time of growth would naturally follow. Do you go along with this belief?
DUPONT: ( a beat ) Well, let me rephrase the question; the President compared the economy of this country to a garden, and stated that after a period of decline a time of growth would naturally follow. Do you go along with this belief?
CHANCE: Yes, I know the garden very well. I have worked in it all my life. It is a good garden and a healthy one; its trees are healthy and so are its shrubs and flowers, as long as they are trimmed and watered in the right seasons. The garden needs a lot of care. I do agree with the President; everything in it will grow strong, and there is plenty of room in it for new trees and new flowers of all kinds. The audience applauds Chance's apparent metaphor. Dupont waits for it all to subside, then asks another question.
DUPONT: ( over TV ) .Well, Mr. Gardiner, that was very well put indeed, and I feel it was a booster for all of us who do not like to wallow in complaints or take delight in gloomy predictions.
PRESIDENT: Gloomy predictions? That insolent son of a bitch!
DUPONT: ( over TV ) Let's make it clear, Mr. Gardiner, it's your view that the collapse of the Stock Market, the dramatic increase in unemployment, you feel that this is just another season, so to speak, in the garden? The First Lady cuddles close the President, ruffles his hair, tries to cheer him up.
CHANCE: In a garden, things grow - but first some things must wither; some trees lose their leaves before they grow new leaves.
CHANCE: ( over TV ) . Then they grow thicker and stronger and taller. Some trees die, but fresh saplings replace them. Gardens need a lot of care and a lot of love.
CHANCE: ( over TV ) . And if you give your garden a lot of love, and if you work very hard and have a lot of patience, in the proper season you will see it grow to be very beautiful. More applause from the TV. Franklin leans closer to the set.
FRANKLIN: ( puzzled ) It's that gardener!
JOHANNA: Yes, Chauncey Gardiner.
FRANKLIN: No! He's a real gardener!
JOHANNA: ( laughs ) He does talk like one, but I think he's brilliant.
DUPONT: ( over TV ) I think your metaphors are quite interesting, Mr. Gardiner, but, haven't we seen seasons that have been devastating to certain INT. PRESIDENT'S BEDROOM - NIGHT The President and First Lady continue to watch.
DUPONT: ( over TV ) Such as disasterous winters, prolonged droughts that have wiped out crops, hurricanes that have all but swept away island communities? Doesn't a country need to have someone in charge that can see it through such crises?
PRESIDENT: . That bastard. The First Lady moves closer to him.
DUPONT: ( over TV ) Don't we need a leader capable of guiding us through the seasons? The bad as well as the good?
CHANCE: ( over TV ) Yes. We need a very good gardener.
DUPONT: Do you feel that we have a 'Very good gardener' in office at this time, Mr. Gardiner? At the end of the question, Dupont glances over Chance's shoulder to look at the monitor.
CHANCE: ( a beat ) I understand. Chance turns to see what Dupont is looking at, sees the back of his own head on the TV screen.
DUPONT: I realize that might be a difficult question for you, Mr. Gardiner - but there are a lot of us around the country that would like to hear your thoughts on the matter. Chance is still turned to the monitor.
CHANCE: Oh, yes. It is possible for one side of the garden to be flooded, and the other side to be dry.
CHANCE: ( over TV ) . Some plants do well in the sun, and others grow better in the cool of the shade.
CHANCE: ( over TV ) . It is the gardener's responsibility to take water from the flooded area and run it to the area that is dry. It is the gardener's responsibility not to plant a sun-loving flower in the shade of a high wall. During the preceding speech, Louise, the maid from the Old Man's house, chatters.
LOUISE: Gobbledegook! All the time he talked gobbledegook! An' it's for sure a White man's world in America, hell, I raised that boy since he was the size of a pissant an' I'll say right now he never learned to read an' write - no sir! Had no brains at all, was stuffed with rice puddin' between the ears! Shortchanged by the Lord and dumb as a jackass an' look at him now! Yes, sir - all you gotta be is white in America an' you get whatever you want! Just listen to that boy - gobbledegook! There is a chorus of "Amens" as she finishes.
CHANCE: . It is the responsibility of the gardener to adjust to the bad seasons as well as enjoy the good ones. If the gardener does his job, everything will be fine.
RAND: ( smiling ) Splendid. Just splendid. Rand looks up as Constance comes into the room.
EVE: ( a beat ) . Yes, I am, Ben.
RAND: ( reaches out, takes her That's good. That's good.
DUPONT: ( over TV ) Well, Mr. Gardiner, from the sound of our audience, I'd say that your words are a most welcome respite from what we've been hearing from ( over TV ) Thank you.
CHANCE: ( over TV ) Thank you.
DUPONT: I'm sorry to say that our time is running short, but before we close, I'd like to ask one final question. What sort of gardener, sir, would you be?
CHANCE: ( with confidence ) I am a very serious gardener.
PRESIDENT: Oh, Jesus. He rolls over in bed. The First Lady reaches out, puts a comforting hand on his shoulder.
FRANKLIN: Okay, I'll see you in twenty Franklin hangs up the phone, scurries around getting dressed. His wife, Johanna, sits grimly in bed.
JOHANNA: ( coldly ) . Business, bullshit! Going out in the middle of the night to meet that bitch in a bar.
FRANKLIN: Sally Hayes is not a bitch - she's a damn fine attorney! I've got to talk to her about this Gardiner.
JOHANNA: ( turns over in bed ) Good night.
FRANKLIN: Look, Johanna.
JOHANNA: ( cuts him off ) I said good night! Franklin gives up, hurries from the room.
COLSON: Marvelous! Just marvelous, Mr. Gardiner! What spirit you have, what confidence! Exactly what this country needs! Chance smiles at well-wishers as they continue on through the INT. PRESIDENT'S BEDROOM - NIGHT The First Lady is snuggled up close to the President, caresses his body. After a moment, it becomes clear to her that he is not up to the occasion.
FIRST LADY: . Darling. What's wrong?
PRESIDENT,: . I can't. I just can't right now. I'm sorry, dearest. I just The First Lady looks at him for a beat, then turns, lies on her back and stares at the ceiling.
FRANKLIN: . It didn't make any sense to me at all. I didn't know what the hell he was talking about.
SALLY: He wasn't making a speech to us, Tom - he was talking to the masses. He was very clever, keeping it at a third grade level - that's what they understand.
FRANKLIN: Yeah? Well, I don't understand what was up his sleeve when he pulled that stunt with us? What was he doing? And why?
SALLY: Who knows.? Maybe the government had something to do with it.
FRANKLIN: You know, Sally - I really feel like I've been had, and you know what that means, don't you?. It means that any political future I had is right down the toilet! The CAMERA begins to slowly move away from the table, the sound of Franklin's voice continues.
KINNEY: . Sid, be reasonable - I've been everywhere, there's no place left to check!
COURTNEY: Try again.
KINNEY: Sure, try again - where? There's nothing, it's like he never Try again.
COURTNEY: Try again.
KINNEY: Sid, it's useless!
COURTNEY: I said - try again. Kinney stands, shoves his paperwork across the table.
KINNEY: Up yours, Sid. You try again, I Kinney takes his drink with him as he leaves the lounge.
WILSON: An outstanding speech, sir.
PERKINS: May I take your coat, Mr. Gardiner?
CHANCE: Yes. Thank you, Perkins. Perkins nods, takes Chance's overcoat, allows everyone to enter the house ahead of him. Alone on the steps, Perkins quickly searches through the pockets of the coat, finds INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT Rand is in bed. Eve sits on the edge, looks warmly to Chance who stands nearby. Allenby prepares an injection for Rand, and occasionally glances curiously at Chance. Chance breathes deeply, enjoys the oxygen.
RAND: ( with some effort ) . You possess a great gift, Chauncey, of being natural. And that, my boy, is a rare talent, the true mark of a leader. You were strong and brave, yet did not moralize. I hope the entire country was watching you tonight, the entire country. Allenby crosses to Rand, needle in hand.
ALLENBY: And you, Benjamin, must be strong and brave for me. Turn over, In a minute, Robert - in a minute. Chauncey, I would like to ask a favor of you.
RAND: ( holds up hand ) In a minute, Robert - in a minute. Chauncey, I would like to ask a favor of you.
CHANCE: Certainly, Ben.
RAND: Senator Rowley's widow, Sophie, is hosting an evening reception tomorrow evening honoring Ambassador Skrapinov of the Soviet Union. I think it's rather obvious that Robert won't allow me to attend, so - would you go in my place, and escort Eve?
CHANCE: Yes. I would like to escort Eve.
RAND: Good. Together, the two of you should create quite a stir - I can already hear the gossip.
EVE: ( with a blush ) . Ben, really.
RAND: ( reaches out a tired hand . Thank you, Chauncey. Thank you very much. ( takes back hand ) . All right, Robert, I'm all Eve and Chance quietly leave the room. Allenby watches Chance go, then readies Rand for the injection.
EVE: ( stopping by bedroom door ) . You don't happen to have a tuxedo in your suitcase, do you?
CHANCE: No, thank you.
EVE: Oh. Well, we can fix up one of Ben's for you tomorrow night. Sophie insists an Black Tie.
CHANCE: I see.
EVE: ( a pause, softly ) . I have very few friends, Chauncey. And Benjamin's friends are all quite a bit older. Eve gives Chance a long look, then kisses him on the lips. She steps back, smiles.
CHANCE: Good night, Eve. Eve goes into her bedroom, closes the door. Chance heads for his room as though nothing had happened.
PRESIDENT: Good morning, gentlemen.
AIDES: ( as one ) Good morning, sir. The President leads the way into the Oval Office.
PRESIDENT: ( to Kaufman ) This is not what I requested.
KAUFMAN: No, sir.
PRESIDENT: This information goes back three days. I want the standard file, you know that.
KAUFMAN: Right, Chief.
PRESIDENT: So.? Where the hell is it?
KAUFMAN: We. uh, have been unable to come up with any information before the man appeared at Mr. Rand's home . and, uh.
PRESIDENT: What the hell are you talking about, Kaufman?
KAUFMAN: Well, we do have data from Honeycutt's sources, Chief - but it isn't pertinent.
PRESIDENT: I'd like to hear that data, Yes, sir. Kaufman takes a clipboard from the man at his right.
KAUFMAN: Yes, sir. Kaufman takes a clipboard from the man at his right.
PRESIDENT: ( into intercom ) Miss Davis - I'd like my eggs poached this morning, please. A quick "Yes sir" from Miss Davis over the intercom. The President leans back in his swivel chair, looks at Kaufman.
KAUFMAN: Well, sir - it occurred to us that he might be an agent of a foreign power. But, we ruled that out, as they invariably are provided with too much documentation, too much American identity. We, uh.don't quite know what to make of it yet, sir. But we'll keep on top of it, Mr. President - we'll come up with the answer.
PRESIDENT: ( with sarcasm ) I would appreciate that. The Aides quickly leave the office.
CHANCE: ( without turning from TV ) Come in! Eve enters, wearing a robe over her nightgown.
EVE: Chauncey! Have you seen the papers?
CHANCE: No, Eve. I don't read the papers.
EVE: ( moving to bed ) Well, it seems you've been described as one of the architects of the President's speech. And your own comments from the 'This Evening' show are quoted side by side with the President's.
CHANCE: I like the President. He is a very nice man.
EVE: ( sits on bed ) I know. ( a moment ) . So are you, Chauncey . ( another moment, Chance . Do you mind my being here, like ( a bite of toast ) No, Eve. I like you to be here. Eve smiles, moves a little closer to Chance.
CHANCE: ( a bite of toast ) No, Eve. I like you to be here. Eve smiles, moves a little closer to Chance.
EVE: . You know, Chauncey. I want us to be. I want us. You and I to become. close. I want us to become very close, you know.?
CHANCE: Yes, Eve. I know that. Eve suddenly begins to cry, sobbing quietly at first, then losing control, the tears flowing freely. To comfort her, Chance puts his arm around her shoulder, nearly tipping his breakfast tray. Eve responds to his touch, draws closer, holds Chance tightly. Chance does his best to avoid spilling his breakfast, keep an eye on the TV, and to comfort Eve. She gives in to her desires, begins to caress Chance, running her hand over his body. She kisses him, his eyes, his neck, his lips, his ears. Chance does not return the lovemaking, and Eve eventually catches hold of herself, stops. She lies quietly beside Chance for a time, regains her demeanor, then . I'm grateful to you, Chauncey. I would have opened to you with a touch, and you know . But you're so strong - I can trust myself with you. I'm glad, Chauncey - I'm glad that you showed so much restraint.
EVE: . I'm grateful to you, Chauncey. I would have opened to you with a touch, and you know . But you're so strong - I can trust myself with you. I'm glad, Chauncey - I'm glad that you showed so much restraint.
CHANCE: Yes, Eve. I'm very glad that you didn't open.
EVE: I know you are, Chauncey. . You conquer a woman from within herself, you infuse in her the need and desire and the longing for your Yes. That could be true.
CHANCE: ( another bite of toast ) Yes. That could be true.
EVE: ( sits up ) . I guess I may as well be honest about my feelings, Chauncey, as I know you are I am in love with you. I love you and I want you. And I know that you know it and I'm grateful that you've decided to wait until. Until. Eve cannot bring herself to finish the sentence. She rises, straightens her robe and moves toward the door.
MAGGIE: ( entering ) Yes, ma'am.
EVE: Chauncey, Maggie will alter Ben's tuxedo for you now.
CHANCE: Eve leaves. Maggie stands by patiently as Chance eats his once-warm scrambled eggs and watches"Mr. Rogers Neighborhood" on TV.
ALLENBY: ( into phone ) Mr. Thomas Franklin, please. ( a wait ) Is Thomas Franklin in? ( a beat ) Yes, this is Dr. Robert Allenby, would you please tell Mr. Franklin that I would like to talk to him? It concerns Chauncey Gardiner.
REPORTER #1: Mr. Gardiner, what did you think of the Post's editorial on the President's speech?
CHANCE: ( smiling for photogs ) I didn't read it.
REPORTER #2: ( surprised ) But air - you must have at least glanced at it.
CHANCE: No. I did not glance at it.
REPORTER #3: Mr. Gardiner, the New York Times spoke of your 'Peculiar brand of optimism,' what was your reaction to that?
CHANCE: ( continues to pose for I did not read that either.
REPORTER #3: Well, how do you feel about that phrase, 'Peculiar brand of I do not know what it means.
CHANCE: I do not know what it means.
REPORTER #2: Sorry to persist, air, but it would be of great interest to me to know what newspapers you do read.
CHANCE: I do not read any newspapers. I watch TV. There is a moment of silence as the reporters digest this. The TV Reporter smiles, questions Chance.
TV REPORTER: . Do you mean, Mr. Gardiner, that you find television's coverage of the news superior to that of the I like to watch TV.
CHANCE: ( flatly ) I like to watch TV.
TV REPORTER: ( pleased ) ) Thank you, Mr. Gardiner, for what is probably the most honest admission to come from a public figure in years. Few men in public life have the courage not to read newspapers none have the guts to admit it.
CHANCE: You're welcome. Eve and Chance walk toward the front door, leaving the newsmen to talk among themselves.
EVE: I've never seen anyone handle the media as well as you, Chauncey. You're so cool and detached - almost as if you were born to it.
CHANCE: Thank you, Eve. The front door is opened for them by an attendant.
WATSON: Mrs. Rand, how good to see you.
EVE: Mr. Watson.
WATSON: ( looks to Chance ) And you must be Mr. Gardiner, Chauncey, this is Mr. Dennis Watson of the State Department.
CHANCE: Chauncey, this is Mr. Dennis Watson of the State Department.
EVE: Chauncey, this is Mr. Dennis Watson of the State Department.
CHANCE: ( they shake ) Hello, Dennis.
WATSON: A pleasure to meet you, sir.
CHANCE: Yes. It is. SOPHIE, an older woman bedecked with jewelry, approaches, embraces Eve.
SOPHIE: Eve, child! How nice of you to Hello, Sophie. Sophie steps back, looks at Chance.
EVE: Hello, Sophie. Sophie steps back, looks at Chance.
SOPHIE: And look who you brought with!
EVE: Sophie, this is Chauncey Oh, I've been just dying to meet you, Mr. Gardiner!
SOPHIE: ( hugs Chance ) Oh, I've been just dying to meet you, Mr. Gardiner!
EVE: Chauncey, this is Mrs. Sophia Hello, Sophia.
CHANCE: ( being hugged ) Hello, Sophia.
SOPHIE: ( steps back, admires Sophie, please - call me Sophie! Sophie pulls them both into the party, leaving Dennis looking after Chance as he walks away.
PRESIDENT: ( gluing the wing ) . How are the kids getting along?
FIRST LADY: Oh. Well, I just talked to Cindy this morning. She loves California, but to quote her, she says, 'The Secret Service is getting to be a drag.' I guess she wants her Huh. I'm glad they're along with her, if you know what I mean. How about Jack?
PRESIDENT: Huh. I'm glad they're along with her, if you know what I mean. How about Jack?
FIRST LADY: Well, I think Jack needs some time alone with you, darling. He's getting to that age, you know. He really misses you.
PRESIDENT: Yeah. I'll have a talk with him as soon as. A KNOCK at the door interrupts the President.
KAUFMAN: Sorry to disturb you, chief but we have new developments.
PRESIDENT: Oh? What?
KAUFMAN: We have word that the Soviets have put out a top priority alert for information on Gardiner's background. So far, they haven't come up with a thing - what's more, as a result of their eagerness, one of their ablest agents blew his cover, we have him in custody at this time.
PRESIDENT: Good. Anything else?
KAUFMAN: Yes, chief - eight other foreign powers have put Gardiner under surveillance. We're around-the clock now, sir - I'll keep you The President nods, Kaufman leaves. The President puts some more glue on the wing.
SKRAPINOV: Mrs. Rand. How delightful. Skrapinov kisses Eve's hand.
EVE: It seems like ages, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs. Skrapinov. Mrs. Skrapinov returns the nod as Sophie introduces Chance.
SOPHIE: Mr. Gardiner, let me introduce you to our guest of honor, His Excellency Vladimar Skrapinov, Ambassador of the Soviet Union. Chance warmly shakes Skrapinov's hand with both of his own.
CHANCE: ( stumbles over name ) Hello. His. His.
SOPHIE: Ambassador Skrapinov, this is Mr. Chauncey Gardiner.
SKRAPINOV: Delighted. Delighted.
SOPHIE: And this is Mrs. Skrapinov. Chance smiles at Mrs. Skrapinov as The Ambassador puts an arm around him.
SKRAPINOV: You must sit with us, my friend, we have much to discuss.
CHANCE: I agree.
SKRAPINOV: ( to Eve ) How is my dear friend Benjamin He's doing as well as could be expected, Mr. Ambassador. He still speaks of the stimulating discussions he's had with you.
EVE: He's doing as well as could be expected, Mr. Ambassador. He still speaks of the stimulating discussions he's had with you.
SKRAPINOV: Ah, Yes. Please give him my Of course.
EVE: Of course.
SOPHIE: ( tugs at Eve ) Come on, Eve. Let's let the men talk, there are so many people that have been asking about you.
EVE: ( to Chance and Skrapinov ) Would you two excuse me for a Regretfully, Mrs. Rand - I shall yield the pleasure of your company to others.
SKRAPINOV: Regretfully, Mrs. Rand - I shall yield the pleasure of your company to others.
CHANCE: Yes, Eve. I shall yield too.
EVE: ( smiling ) I'll be back soon. Eve and Sophie leave. Skrapinov leads his wife and Chance to their table.
SKRAPINOV: ( as they walk ) I'm sorry we haven't met sooner, Mr. Gardiner. I had the pleasure of seeing you on television last night and I listened with great interest to your down-to-earth philosophy. I'm not surprised that it was so quickly endorsed by the President. ( quietly ) . Tell me, Mr. Gardiner, just how serious is Benjamin's illness? I did not want to upset Mrs. Rand by discussing it in detail.
CHANCE: Ben is very ill.
SKRAPINOV: Yes, so I've heard, a shame. As you know, we in the Soviet Union have the keenest interest in developments of the First American Financial Corporation. We are pleased to hear that you may fill Benjamin's place should he fail to Be seated, please, Mr. Gardiner. Chance sits between Skrapinov and Mrs. Skrapinov.
CHANCE: Yes, I agree, I think so too.
SKRAPINOV: To exchange our thoughts - what does a Russian know about business? On the other hand, what does an American know about diplomacy?
CHANCE: Yes, I understand.
SKRAPINOV: And I have noticed in you a certain reticence regarding political issues - so why not a coming together? An interchange of opinion? We may find, my friend, that we are not so far from each other, not so far!
CHANCE: ( an engaging smile ) We are not far. ( motions at nearness of . our chairs almost touch.
SKRAPINOV: ( laughs ) Bravo! Bravo! Our chairs are indeed almost touching! And we want to remain seated on them, correct? We don't want them snatched from under us, am I right? Because if one goes, the other goes, and then - boom! Boom! And we are both down before our time, you see? And neither of us wants that, do you I certainly do.
CHANCE: I certainly do.
SKRAPINOV: Yes. Tell me, Mr. Gardiner - do you by any chance enjoy Krylov's fables? I ask this because there is something. there is something Krylovian about you.
CHANCE: Do you think so? Do you think so?
SKRAPINOV: So you know Krylov! Skrapinov pauses, then leans close to Chance, speaks softly in Russian. Chance, having never heard this language, raises his eyebrows and laughs. Mrs. Skrapinov remains impassive.
CHANCE: Oh, good.
SKRAPINOV: Yes, it is very good!
CHANCE: Yes, it is. Would you tell me your name again, Ho! Ho! A dash of American humor! Vladimar Skrapinov!
SKRAPINOV: ( slaps Chance on the back ) Ho! Ho! A dash of American humor! Vladimar Skrapinov!
CHANCE: Yes. I like that name very much.
SKRAPINOV: And yours, sir - Chauncey Gardiner! How poetic! Chauncey, a name of uncertain meaning! And Gardiner, a bit of the French, a suggestion of a stroll through the flowers! A beautiful name, my friend! As he speaks in Russian, Eve comes to the table, taps Skrapinov on the shoulder.
EVE: Only to steal Mr. Gardiner away, if I might. Everyone wants to meet you.
CHANCE: Yes, Eve. That would be good.
SKRAPINOV: ( shakes Chance's hand ) We must speak again, Mr. Gardiner, many times!
CHANCE: Thank you. As Eve and Chance leave, Skrapinov turns and nods to a MAN standing a short distance away. The man, KARPATOV, hurries to the table.
SKRAPINOV: Yes? What have you found?
KARPATOV: ( in Russian ) We have nothing on him, Ambassador ( holds up hand, looks Quietly, please. Mr. Gardiner, for one, understands our language.
SKRAPINOV: ( holds up hand, looks Quietly, please. Mr. Gardiner, for one, understands our language.
KARPATOV: ( in English, softly ) Sorry, Comrade Ambassador.
SKRAPINOV: What do you mean there is nothing? That's impossible.
KARPATOV: There is no information available on the man before he moved into Benjamin Rand's. It has proven to be such a difficult task that it has resulted in the loss of one of our agents to the United States Mrs. Skrapinov strains to overhear the conversation.
SKRAPINOV: But. Where was this man Gardiner before last week?
KARPATOV: Apparently the White House shares our curiosity - they have also launched an investigation, and, according to our sources, neither the F.B.I. nor the C.I.A. has met with success.
SKRAPINOV: I see. Clearly, such interest on their part is of great political Clearly, yes comrade.
KARPATOV: Clearly, yes comrade.
SKRAPINOV: Hmmm. Take this down. I want this quote included in the Tass coverage; 'Chauncey Gardiner, in an intimate discussion with Ambassador Skrapinov, noted that "Unless the leaders of the opposing political systems move the chairs on which they sit closer to each other, all of their seats will be pulled from under them by rapid social and political changes."'
KARPATOV: Very good, Your Excellency. Karpatov leaves the table.
COURTNEY: . It's strictly rumor at this stage, Lyman - just something in the wind.
STUART: Something rather big in the wind, I'd say. So whose files were destroyed? The CIA's or the FBI's?
COURTNEY: I don't know. Like I said, it's just rumor so far, but we should start nosing around, see if we can talk to some people. The CAMERA begins to slowly MOVE AWAY from their table.
STUART: . But why? The question is why? Why would they destroy Gardiner's files? What is it about his past they are trying to cover up? . A criminal record? A membership in a subversive organization? Homosexual, perhaps? The SOUND of Stuart's voice dissolves into Thomas Franklin's as the CAMERA SETTLES on Dr. Allenby and Franklin sitting at a table nearby.
FRANKLIN: . And he told us that he had been living there since he was a child, working as a gardener. He showed us a room in the garage, where he said he stayed, and I. Well, I didn't really believe him, of course - but why the act?
ALLENBY: I have no idea.
FRANKLIN: Another thing that baffles me, Doctor - what was his connection with the deceased? Major financial dealings, obviously - but our firm has no record of any such Hmmm. You say he showed you his Well, he said it was his, he walked us through it.
ALLENBY: Hmmm. You say he showed you his Well, he said it was his, he walked us through it.
FRANKLIN: Well, he said it was his, he walked us through it.
ALLENBY: I see. Mr. Franklin, I must ask you and Miss Hayes to keep this incident with Mr. Gardiner to yourselves. There's no telling what he was involved in, and the matter may be extremely confidential. So please, not a word.
FRANKLIN: Of course, Doctor, I understand.
ALLENBY: Fine. Thank you, Mr. Franklin.
FRANKLIN: Certainly, glad to be of help. Allenby rises, leaves the bar.
STIEGLER: Mr. Gardiner, I'm Ronald Stiegler, of Harvard Books.
CHANCE: ( a two-handed handshake ) Hello, Ronald.
STIEGLER: Mr. Gardiner, my editors and I have been wondering if you'd consider writing a book for us? Something on your political philosophy. What do you say?
CHANCE: I can't write.
STIEGLER: ( smiles ) Of course, who can nowadays? I have trouble writing a post card to my children! Look, we could give you a six figure advance, provide you with the very best ghostwriter, research assistants, proof I can't read.
CHANCE: I can't read.
STIEGLER: Of course not! No one has the time to read! One glances at things, watches television.
CHANCE: Yes. I like to watch.
STIEGLER: Sure you do! No one reads!. Listen, book publishing isn't exactly a bed of roses these What sort of bed is it?
CHANCE: ( mild interest ) What sort of bed is it?
RAND: ( speaks slowly, with Everything. I said everything and that's exactly what I mean.
MONROE: But, Mr. Rand, the holdings are so extensive, I would like to be more precise in.
RAND: ( interrupts ) What could be more precise than Allenby enters the room, stands by the door, unnoticed.
MONROE: ( turns to Townsend ) Everything to Mrs. Rand.
TOWNSEND: ( drafting a will ) Right - everything.
RAND: You two don't have to lecture me on the complexities of the situation, no one knows that better than myself. But you must understand that I have an endless faith in Mrs. Rand's abilities - I know that she will select the right person for guidance when she has the need. She has shared my life, gentlemen, she has given me far more pleasure than any of my so called assets. Life has suddenly become very simple for me now - I may be older than my years, and you might think me to be somewhat feeble. But I am still in love, gentlemen, thank God for that. Allenby silently leaves the room.
DENNIS: We could do it now, we can go . Please, it's time for us. Come I like to watch.
CHANCE: ( blankly ) I like to watch.
DENNIS: Watch? You mean just watch me? Doing it alone?
CHANCE: Yes. I like to watch very much.
DENNIS: Well, if that's what you want, then I want it too. We can go this way.
CHANCE: I want to tell Eve.
DENNIS: Tell Eve? You mean Mrs. Rand?
CHANCE: ( pulling Chance ) Oh, you can tell her later. She'll never miss you in this crowd. Dennis leads Chance out of the crowded room.
DENNIS: ( pulling Chance ) Oh, you can tell her later. She'll never miss you in this crowd. Dennis leads Chance out of the crowded room.
FIRST LADY: ( after some time ) . Maybe you should talk to somebody, darling.
PRESIDENT: No, that won't do any good.
FIRST LADY: ( another pause ) . Is it me? Is there something I've done?
PRESIDENT: Oh, no, sweetheart - it's not It's your damn job. It never happened when you were a senator.
FIRST LADY: ( another pause ) It's your damn job. It never happened when you were a senator.
PRESIDENT: It's not that, I just. The inter-White House phone rings, the President reaches for Yeah, Kaufman - what is it?
KAUFMAN'S VOICE: ( over phone ) Chief, we have a break in the case. Our man at the Washington Post says they are working on a story that either the CIA or the FBI destroyed Gardiner's files before anyone could get to them.
PRESIDENT: What? Why?
KAUFMAN'S VOICE: ( over phone ) I can't say at this time - neither agency will admit to a thing.
PRESIDENT: ( getting out of bed ) Okay, get both Directors over here, I'll be right down. The President hangs up the phone as the First Lady stares at the ceiling.
DENNIS' VOICE: ( softly ) Can you see well?
CHANCE: ( squints at small screen ) Yes, very well, thank you.
DENNIS' VOICE: Do you like it?
CHANCE: Yes. It's very tiny, but it's good.
DENNIS' VOICE: ( disappointed at it being . Are you sure you like it?
CHANCE: Yes, I do, it's very good.
DENNIS' VOICE: ( excited ) Really? Really!!! Chance reacts to the change in tone of Dennis' voice, turns to look at him on the floor. Hearing the groans and heavy breathing, Chance thinks Dennis is ill.
CHANCE: Do you need a doctor? I could call I don't want Robert.
DENNIS' VOICE: I don't want Robert.
CHANCE: I see.
DENNIS' VOICE: ( through the groans ) Your foot! Give me your foot!! Dennis reaches out with his free hand, grabs Chance's foot, pulls it to himself.
CHANCE: ( some pain ) Thank you. But my leg is still a little sore. Chance watches as Dennis goes through some spasms, then his body relaxes. Chance is concerned for Dennis' health.
NOVOGROD: The rank-and-file in the FBI feel he is FBI, but others feel he is a CIA man who knows how to destroy FBI files.
SKRAPINOV: That could be possible.
NOVOGROD: But we are quite certain, comrade, that this man Gardiner is a leading member of an American elitist faction planning a coup d'etat.
SKRAPINOV: A coup d'etat! Of course, that was foreseen by Lenin himself!
NOVOGROD: That is correct, Comrade Skrapinov. We have ascertained that Gardiner heads a big-business power group that will soon be taking over the American government.
SKRAPINOV: Big business. I could work with that faction quite nicely, Colonel You have proven that already, Comrade Skrapinov, you are to be congratulated for recognizing the importance of this man and establishing an early friendship.
NOVOGROD: You have proven that already, Comrade Skrapinov, you are to be congratulated for recognizing the importance of this man and establishing an early friendship.
SKRAPINOV: Thank you, Colonel.
NOVOGROD: ( raising his glass ) Let us toast to the success of the They all raise their glasses.
GROUP TOAST: Na zdorov'e! The men and Mrs. Skrapinov drink their vodkas.
EVE: Chauncey, where have you been? I was afraid you got bored and left, or that you were with some mysterious woman.
CHANCE: No. I was with a man. We went Upstairs? Chauncey, you're always involved in some sort of He was very ill, I stayed with him for a while.
EVE: Upstairs? Chauncey, you're always involved in some sort of He was very ill, I stayed with him for a while.
CHANCE: He was very ill, I stayed with him for a while.
EVE: It must be the punch, and it is stuffy in here I feel it a little myself. You're an angel, my dear - thank God there are still men like you around to give aid and Eve and Chance leave the reception.
HONEYCUTT: I never gave such a directive, Mr. Nor I, sir - it would be out of the Gentlemen, I didn't call you here at such an hour to make accusations, I just want to explore the possibilities. Now, I have three questions; Is the man a foreign agent? Or, have we suddenly found that our methods of gathering data are grossly inefficient? Or, thirdly, have the man's files been destroyed? Now, I'd like some Gardiner is not a foreign agent, there are now sixteen countries investigating the man. We can rule that out.
BALDWIN: Nor I, sir - it would be out of the Gentlemen, I didn't call you here at such an hour to make accusations, I just want to explore the possibilities. Now, I have three questions; Is the man a foreign agent? Or, have we suddenly found that our methods of gathering data are grossly inefficient? Or, thirdly, have the man's files been destroyed? Now, I'd like some Gardiner is not a foreign agent, there are now sixteen countries investigating the man. We can rule that out.
PRESIDENT: Gentlemen, I didn't call you here at such an hour to make accusations, I just want to explore the possibilities. Now, I have three questions; Is the man a foreign agent? Or, have we suddenly found that our methods of gathering data are grossly inefficient? Or, thirdly, have the man's files been destroyed? Now, I'd like some Gardiner is not a foreign agent, there are now sixteen countries investigating the man. We can rule that out.
BALDWIN: Gardiner is not a foreign agent, there are now sixteen countries investigating the man. We can rule that out.
PRESIDENT: Very well. Can we rule out There is silence in the room. A couple of looks, but silence.
HONEYCUTT: Highly unlikely, sir. In fact, the boys around the Bureau feel that the only person capable of pulling it off would be an ex F.B.I. man.
BALDWIN: ( a look to Honeycutt ) I don't think that's entirely true, ( to Baldwin ) And what do the boys around Intelligence think?
PRESIDENT: ( to Baldwin ) And what do the boys around Intelligence think?
BALDWIN: Well, Mr. President. They don't quite know what to think.
PRESIDENT: ( rising ) Gentlemen, needless to say, there is going to be a full Congressional investigation of your respective ( goes to door ) Good night. The President leaves the Oval Office.
EVE: ( holding his hand ) I feel so close to you, so safe with you, Chauncey. ( stops at her bedroom . And Benjamin understands that, dearest. He understands and accepts my feelings for you.
CHANCE: Yes, Eve. Ben is very wise.
EVE: ( opens her door ) . Come in, Chauncey - please come Thank you. Chance enters, Eve closes the door behind them.
CHANCE: Thank you. Chance enters, Eve closes the door behind them.
EVE: I can sense that you've been through a lot, Chauncey. But one day, when you feel like it, you'll tell me all about your life. . But, even if you tell me nothing, even if it's too painful for you to reveal your past. As she talks, Chance watches a love scene on TV. The hero gives his lady a passionate kiss and embrace. The scene seems to 'sink into' Chance's mind. He abruptly turns, takes Eve into his arms and kisses her full on the mouth. Just as abruptly, he turns away and changes channels on TV.
EVE: ( breathless ) Oh, Chauncey. I do love you so She takes Chance in her arms, kisses him wildly. They fall to her bed in an embrace. As she holds him, kisses him, runs her hands over his body, Chance watches television, neither resists nor responds to Eve's caresses. Suddenly she stops, lets her head fall on Chance's chest.
CHANCE: I like to watch.
EVE: ( not understanding ) To watch.? To watch me.?
CHANCE: Yes. I like to watch.
EVE: ( uncertain ) . Is that all you want.? ( a hesitation ) . To watch me.?
CHANCE: Yes. It's very good, Eve.
EVE: . But I've never done. . You mean.? When. When. When I do it? . When I touch Eve slowly gets up from the bed, nervously paces the bedroom as Chance watches TV. She makes a decision, moves to Chance, kisses him.
CHANCE: ( going to door ) Good night, Eve. A low purr is heard from Eve as Chance leaves.
RAND: No more, Robert. No more It's not good, Ben - I'm sure you can feel it.
ALLENBY: ( sits on the side of the It's not good, Ben - I'm sure you can feel it.
RAND: I know, Robert. But, strangely enough, I don't feel too bad about now. I feel all right. I guess it's easier. knowing Chauncey is here. to take care of things. Teresa is about to swab Rand's arm with alcohol but he pulls No, I don't want any of that. Please. please, just get me Mr. Gardiner, Teresa - please. he'll head it up. Teresa looks to Allenby, he nods to her. Teresa puts the cotton down, leaves the room.
EVE: . And I feel so free now, Chauncey. Until I met you, I never felt acknowledged by a man. . I always had the feeling that I was just a vessel for a man, someone that he could take hold of, pierce, and pollute. I was merely an aspect of somebody's lovemaking. Do you know what I mean? Chance turns to her, says nothing, presses the cold snowflakes to his face.
CHANCE: That's very interesting, Eve. Teresa appears in the doorway.
TERESA: Mr. Gardiner. Mr. Rand would like to see you.
CHANCE: Yes. I would like to see Ben. Chance gives Eve a warm smile, then follows Teresa into the INT. RAND'S HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING Allenby, with nothing more he can do to prolong Rand's life, sits on the bed close to him, grips his hand tightly. Teresa shows Chance into the room and Allenby motions to the nurses to leave. As they do, Chance, once again breathing the oxygen with a smile, goes to Rand's bedside.
RAND: ( slowly ) . Chauncey. Chauncey.
CHANCE: Yes, Ben - are you going to die Allenby winces.
RAND: ( a weak smile ) . I'm about to surrender the Horn of Plenty for the Horn of Gabriel, my boy.
CHANCE: Oh, I see.
RAND: ( reaches out to him ) Let me feel the strength in your hand, Chauncey. Let me feel your ( holds Chance's hand ) Yes, that's good. I hope, Chauncey - I hope that you'll stay with Eve. Take care of her, watch over her, she's a delicate flower, ( smiling ) A flower.
CHANCE: ( smiling ) A flower.
RAND: She cares for you and she needs your help, Chauncey. there's much to be looked after.
CHANCE: Yes. I would like to do that.
RAND: . I've worked very hard and enjoyed my life. I've known success. and I've felt love. My associates, Chauncey - I've talked with them about you. They're eager to meet you. very eager to meet you. I'm very fond of you, Chauncey. And I understand Eve. Tell her that. tell her I'm madly in love with her. Rand slumps down, dead. Allenby checks his pulse, turns to . He's gone, Chauncey.
ALLENBY: . He's gone, Chauncey.
CHANCE: Yes, Robert. I have seen it before. It happens to old people.
ALLENBY: ( covers Rand's face ) Yes, I suppose that's true. Chance reaches out, uncovers Rand's face, gently touches the man's forehead, feels the coldness. Allenby eyes him as Chance stays with Rand for a moment, then replaces the sheet.
CHANCE: ( turns to Allenby ) Will you be leaving now, Robert?
ALLENBY: In a day or two, yes.
CHANCE: Eve is going to stay. The house will not be closed.
ALLENBY: ( a moment, a look ) . You've become quite a close friend of Eve's - haven't you Mr. ( a beat ) . Chance.?
CHANCE: Yes. I love Eve very much.
ALLENBY: I see. . And you are really a gardener, aren't you?
CHANCE: ( brightens ) Yes, Robert - I am. ( a smile at Allenby ) I'll go tell Eve about Ben now, Chance leaves the bedroom. Allenby watches him go, then sits back in a chair, his head spinning.
PRESIDENT: . Millions of people across the world have heard of the passing of Benjamin Rand; but, unfortunately, only relatively few will feel the pain and sadness at such a loss. To most, Benjamin Rand was a legend; to those of us gathered here today, Benjamin was a beloved friend. My personal association with Benjamin dates back many years, and my memories of our friendship will stay with me forever. As the President speaks, Chance turns and walks away. Eve and Allenby watch as he goes into the trees surrounding the area.
DUDLEY: But what do we know of the man? Nothing! We have no inkling of his SEWELL NELSON, a corporation chairman, joins in.
NELSON: Correct, and that is an asset. A man's past can cripple him, his background turns into a swamp and invites scrutiny. Another executive, PETER CALDWELL, agrees.
CALDWELL: To this time, he hasn't said anything that could be used against CHARLIE BOB BENNET, a Texas oil millionaire;
BENNET: Well, I'm certainly open to the thought - it would be sheer lunacy to support the President for another term.
NELSON: No one will go along with that. Look at the facts, gentlemen, the response from his appearance on 'This Evening' was overwhelming; he has excited and awakened the people of this country at a time of LYMAN MURRAY, a banker;
MURRAY: He's personable, elusive, yet seemingly honest. He's riding a crest of popularity that builds with every statement. As far as his thinking goes, he appears to be one of us. I firmly believe, gentlemen, that he is our only chance - Mr. Chauncey Gardiner!
EVE: It was very moving, Bobby - thank you so much.
PRESIDENT: We're all going to miss him, Eve. . Where's Mr. Gardiner?
ALLENBY: . He walked off.
EVE: Chauncey is so sensitive. He was overcome with grief.
PRESIDENT: I can certainly understand that.
FIRST LADY: Of course. I'm so sorry for you, Thank you, Nancy.
EVE: Thank you, Nancy.
FIRST LADY: I'll call you soon. The President and First Lady head toward their limousine.
EVE: . Do you think we should look for I don't think so, he should be along soon.
ALLENBY: I don't think so, he should be along soon.
EVE: I wish he were here. Eve keeps looking as they walk to the limousine.
EVE: We have to find him, Robert - he could be lost, something may have happened, we can't leave him!
ALLENBY: You really care for him, don't you, I do - we do - both of us, Ben and I feel so much for Chauncey.
EVE: I do - we do - both of us, Ben and I feel so much for Chauncey.
ALLENBY: I think we'd better go look for David starts up the limousine.
JEFFREY: About 100 yards ahead of them, Chance crosses the road, continues on down a hill.
EVE: There he is! Chauncey! David stops the limousine at the point where Chance crossed. Eve hurries out of the car.
EVE: Chauncey! Chauncey!
CHANCE: ( stops, looks up ) Hello, Eve. Eve runs, half falls as she goes down the hill.
EVE: Oh, Chauncey.! She gets to him, holds him tightly.
CHANCE: Yes. I've been looking for you, too, Eve. She hugs him one more time, then she leads him back up the hill to the waiting limousine. Allenby gets out of the car, greets Chance with a handshake and an arm around the shoulder. Then the three get into the limousine.
THE END: Writers : Jerry Kosinski Robert C. Jones
