CORPORAL: So his hand is like, off, right. So he puts on a tourniquet, puts the hand in his pocket, walks five miles through the bush til he gets to the highway, where he passes out, on the road, right. Then this logging truck comes along.
DETECTIVE BOYLE: ( looking ahead )
CORPORAL: ( into his radio )
DETECTIVE BOYLE: Cancel that. The Woman kicks up a leg, wiggles her foot. I know where she belongs. As they lift her up.
HAIR STYLIST: ( to someone O.S. )
MAN'S VOICE: We'll get him later. C'mon. The lid drops.
TEENAGER: ".Get up, everybody's gonna move their feet, get down, everybody's gonna leave their seat.gonna lose your mind in." He shuts the lid with care. Black.
TED: Need a hand?
HOWARD: ( turning )
TED: No. Name's Ted.
HOWARD: Hey Ted, I'm Howard.
TED: Hey Howard. What is that, an Arctic Cat? What do those go for?
HOWARD: More than I could normally afford, I'll tell ya. Hey! What do you think you're you doing? As Ted and Howard continue to talk, we PULL BACK to reveal we are watching Ted's video playing on a VCR that is
CAM: That was really cool. It was like. watching "Cops".
TED: He was pretty spry for a man with a herniated disc.
CAM: You know, I don't want to bitch or anything, but you were supposed to take me along on that one.
TED: Couldn't find you.
CAM: I know you know this, but the sooner they think I can handle calls on my own, the sooner they'll kick you back down south.
TED: I've been hearing that for 13 months and six days, Cam. After a while, it gets a little old. Next time, okay. Good enough. Cam moves off. Back to the zombie blood bath. The phone RINGS. Ted picks up, his eyes never wavering from the gore intensive computer game. Claims, Ted Watters. Sure. A final key stroke separates one last zombie from its entrails.
PAUL: That's. quite the fish. Branch is about to answer when Ted enters with a slim file.
BRANCH: Paul Barnell, Ted Watters. Handshakes. Paul makes steady eye contact. Ted notices. Mr. Barnell wants to talk to us about his brother's life insurance policy. Ted sits and flips open the file.
TED: Raymond, isn't it?
PAUL: Yes, Raymond. You see, as I've already explained to Mr. Branch, he's been gone for five years now, and I thought it might be time to. move on.
TED: By move on you mean.?
BRANCH: .cash in Raymond's policy. Ted smiles to himself.
PAUL: I just thought, well, it's pretty unlikely he's still alive. My Dad always wanted us to be able to look after each other if anything should ever happen. And to be frank, money's a little
TED: I understand Mr. Barnell, but here's the thing. With no actual body, under Alaskan statutes a person must be missing for seven years before he or she can be legally declared dead and that's not withstanding an investigation period where concerned parties can take up to another year to file interventions concerning the motion. So, even though your brother's status is undetermined at this point, there's really very little we can do for you. Ted flips the file shut. Case closed. Branch, not entirely happy with Ted's demeanor, forces a smile.
BRANCH: Of course we are extremely sorry for your loss. Branch looks at Ted. Ted turns to Paul.
TED: Oh, absolutely.
PAUL: Hang on, hang on. First off, how did you get my cell number? ( Beat ) Because it's for mechanical and medical emergencies only. Paul, wound up, taps his brakes too hard. His mug falls, the lid pops and the coffee proceeds to soak a stack of papers. No, I'm not. I just. give me a second here. Paul parks his car, gathers the soggy papers and gets out.
PAUL: Yes, and that check went out a week ago. I watched my secretary write it up.
PAUL: Well I don't know. I, I, I have no clue. Could it possibly be a problem on your end? So the electric company never makes a. Look, I pay my bills. I'm a Rotarian for goodness Paul looks over to see some MEN from Rodney's Repo Ranch walking up to the front door of his office. Distracted for a moment, the phone slips and falls into the trash. Paul, muttering, leans in to get it. He pushes aside an orange garbage bag, guided by the faint sound of the other person STILL TALKING. And then PAUL'S POV: of THE BODY a 40-ish White ( well, a little blue ) male dressed in a cheap suit. Paul's phone lies across the corpse's mouth, like the dead guy is Mr. Barnell? Mr. Barnell?
PAUL: ( into the phone )
PAUL: ( at the sound )
TIFFANY: ( into her headset ) ( pause - she listens )
TED: Hey Tiff. Tiffany looks up, then holds up a file folder with the words "WORKING - SHHHHHH!" in big black letters.
TIFFANY: ( to caller )
TED: "If you like frozen enchiladas, getting caught in the rain. If you're not into.something brownish." Ted pulls out some Tupperware, tries to figure out what's in it. Tiffany, still wearing her headset, appears behind him, grabs a Diet Coke from the fridge and kisses him on the cheek.
TIFFANY: It's stew. I'm not sure it's still good.
TED: Aren't you with a customer?
TIFFANY: They're concentrating. Ted grabs a fork, takes the pot and sits at the table. Tiffany goes back to her desk and flips through her magazine.
TED: ( through a mouthful of food )
TIFFANY: I've decided from now on to ignore you when you're ignorant about my work. And it's going very well thank you. Mr. Williams, I'm seeing sofa cushions. Do you have a sofa? Good. Glad I could help.
TED: You here from that software distributor guy?
TIFFANY: No, but I did crack that code problem. You know how sometimes when you're running Beta versions you
TED: English, please.
TIFFANY: There was a boo-boo, but I fixed it. Psychic Pals, how are you today, Carol? Now I thought we'd agreed God is everywhere, but not specifically in your coffee pot.
TED: Jeez, Tiff.
TIFFANY: Jeez, Ted. Do I tell you how to do your job?
TED: ( kidding. kind of )
TIFFANY: Before you say anything else that may keep us from having sex ever again, let me ask you something. She picks up her magazine.
TED: Tiff, please. I always get these wrong.
TIFFANY: That's why we keep trying. Now, Love is Sacrifice If you were in a life raft with me and there was only enough water
TED: Don't you have a customer?
TIFFANY: ( to the caller )
TED: No. I'm not doing it.
TIFFANY: It's just a stupid quiz.
TED: The PHONE RINGS. Tiffany bolts to her desk, sits, spins in her chair as she answers the call.
TIFFANY: Psychic Pals. Is this the first time you've called us Tiffany at her computer, enters the name "Margaret Barnell" into her database. Tiffany works a "mute" button as she points back to the magazine. But stupid quizzes can be illustrative of potential relationship problems. Margaret, I'm getting the feeling this is an anxious day for you. Ted, cooking pot in hand, walks over to her desk.
TED: Our only relationship problem is you're running a $1.99 a minute carny scam out of my living room.
TIFFANY: Don't call it a scam. Excuse me?
TED: You've got to learn to channel that rage, Margaret. You didn't just call this your living room, did you?
TIFFANY: You've got to learn to channel that rage, Margaret. You didn't just call this your living room, did you?
TED: I meant ours. Ours, ours, ours. Tiffany returns to her call, but keeps looking at Ted.
TIFFANY: I feel someone you really care about, maybe even the love of your life, is being a real pain. Now I need you to concentrate. Ted pretends to do just that, drawing a giggle from Tiffany before he walks off.
AVIS: Morning Mr. Barnell. Coffee?
PAUL: Thanks Avis. Looks good. Paul, shivering, hangs up his coat as Avis picks up a promotional Aloha Air surfboard ( the old display ) and walks it to the back. Was November this bad last year?
PAUL: Yeah, it was not working. Any calls?
PAUL: Something. strange happened last night Avis.
PAUL: Did. you ever meet my brother Raymond?
PAUL: Uh huh. Well anyway last night there's a knock on the door and there's Raymond, just. standing there on the doorstep. Avis arrives with the coffee and the mail.
AVIS: Didn't you have him declared.?
PAUL: Dead? No. I mean, they said he hadn't been gone long enough.
AVIS: ( smiling warmly )
PAUL: Lower 48. Said he wanted to get away from the cold.
AVIS: Where 'bouts?
PAUL: ( looking up )
AVIS: Where was he living? Paul, a flash of panic, looks over at the Hawaii display. He keys on the shell.
PAUL: I've got an aunt down there. Where 'bouts?
AVIS: I've got an aunt down there. Where 'bouts?
PAUL: ( blanking )
AVIS: Well that's great. You and Mrs. Barnell will have some company for a bit I guess. How is she?
PAUL: Better, a little better. Some days are better than MARGARET BARNELL ( early 40s ) stands in a plush bathrobe and slippers. Despite her casual attire she is immaculately made up as she walks to the front door, opening it on a young wholesome PAPERBOY smiling through the Collecting, Mrs. Barnell.
PAPERBOY: Collecting, Mrs. Barnell.
MARGARET: Daniel, you pussy little cocksucker. I'll get my purse. The paperboy, unfazed, smiles as Margaret walks off.
PAPERBOY: It's 12 dollars. I missed you last time.
PAPERBOY: Sure will. Thanks. He trots down the walk as Margaret shuts the door.
GARY: I thought stuff didn't smell when it was frozen? I don't know why we have to
JIMBO: Dave wants visual confirmation, he gets visual confirmation. We have a chance to move up here, so let's just
GARY: Like the guy's not gonna end up in a land- fill, anyway. You ever ask Dave what he did?
JIMBO: Whatever it was, he told him if he did it again, he'd snap his neck.
GARY: ( smiling ) ( off Jimbo not getting it )
JIMBO: I don't want to talk about it. Gary hops inside as his actions become more frantic. Still no luck. He stands.
GARY: Not here. Jimbo glares at his partner. Serious. He's gone. Maybe he wasn't.
JIMBO: Don't even joke. Maybe the trash was emptied.
GARY: Looks pretty full. Hey. There's a little fridge down here. If we would have shot him at least we'd know for I was following orders. And if you hadn't started a screaming match, no one would have called the cops and we wouldn't have had to dump his
JIMBO: I was following orders. And if you hadn't started a screaming match, no one would have called the cops and we wouldn't have had to dump his
GARY: Fine. Sorry.
JIMBO: I'm just saying. maybe you didn't break it all the way.
GARY: I'm just saying. maybe you didn't break it all the way.
JIMBO: ( walking away )
GARY: I'm just saying. maybe it was like hypothermia and he just looked dead.
JIMBO: It - was - BROKEN! Gary, embarrassed, digs in the trash with his feet.
PAUL: How's my Angel tonight?
MARGARET: Blow me. Dinner's almost ready. You feel like some wine? I feel like some wine. Paul walks to the oven, opens the door and pats the chicken. Stone cold.
PAUL: Sweetie, here's a crazy thought. I don't feel like chicken tonight, why don't we order in?
MARGARET: Fuck it, okay.
PAUL: There's actually something we need to talk about. It's about Raymond. He's back. Paul smiles bravely as he shuts the oven door. Behind the chicken, Margaret doesn't look happy as Paul starts to explain. She rushes from the room.
BON VOYAGE.": ( a little drunk )
RAYMOND: ( a little drunk )
PAUL: What'cha saying there Raymond? Wha'cha saying 'bout me? Raymond shakes his brother's arm off his shoulder.
RAYMOND: Enough, OK?
PAUL: ( sing-songy )
RAYMOND: And shut that thing The screen turns to snow. We are. Paul at his desk, watching the video on a small TV in the wall unit. He turns his attention to a large cardboard box filled with documents, souvenirs, old report On the TV playing behind him ( the second part of the tape ), Margaret is pictured on a cruise ship, sunning herself. Paul, obviously behind the camera, watches as Margaret takes a tropical drink from a WAITER'S tray, who promptly dumps it all over her. But instead of the expected burst of profanity, Margaret just
MARGARET: That's okay, don't worry about it. I'd like the next one in a cup, please. Paul puts aside a faded hotel postcard from Hawaii and digs out an insurance policy out of the box. On the last page is a list of the payouts. Loss of a limb: $100,000. Loss of thumb: $5,000. Accidental death: $1,000,000. And, as an extra bonus, Raymond's birth certificate. Perfect. Paul takes out the credit card application from work, and starts to write.
PAUL: ( to himself )
JIMBO: Which one's your sister's kid?
GARY: See the one on the little bike-thing? Him.
JIMBO: ( hesitant )
GARY: The thing with the guy? Ya know, I thought it might kinda mess me up.
JIMBO: First time for both of us.
GARY: .but I've been sleeping really well.
JIMBO: Yeah. 'Course, you didn't actually. Jimbo mimics snapping someone's neck. It's clearly not a gesture he enjoys. As Gary looks at him, a Cadillac pulls up beside them. Behind the wheel is DAVE ( 50s ) well dressed, in a thuggish kinda way. Jimbo and Gary share a nervous look.
NEPHEW: Leggo. it's mine. Uncle Gary!
DAVE: ( to Jimbo )
GARY: ( shouting )
JIMBO: Yeah. But he's dead. I mean, that part, no question.
DAVE: Yeah? Take off your coat. And your shirt, too. Jimbo knows better than to argue. He strips down, exposing his corpulent middle-aged belly to the chilly winter winds.
JIMBO: I'm not wearing a wire, Dave, if that's what this is It was our first time. No one gets it perfect their first You too, Sweetie. Gary is about to comply when the sound of a FIGHT on the tobogganing hill causes them all to look over, just in time to see GARY'S NEPHEW shoved to ground. The Bully LAUGHS as he slides away.
GARY: It was our first time. No one gets it perfect their first You too, Sweetie. Gary is about to comply when the sound of a FIGHT on the tobogganing hill causes them all to look over, just in time to see GARY'S NEPHEW shoved to ground. The Bully LAUGHS as he slides away.
DAVE: You too, Sweetie. Gary is about to comply when the sound of a FIGHT on the tobogganing hill causes them all to look over, just in time to see GARY'S NEPHEW shoved to ground. The Bully LAUGHS as he slides away.
GARY: Excuse me for a second. Gary trots toward the hill. Jimbo can't believe it.
JIMBO: Gary! We're in the middle of something.
GARY: ( calling back )
DAVE: Is he.?
JIMBO: He's fine. Look, we can take you there right now. We'll show you. Behind them on the hill, Gary tries to retrieve his nephew's Snowrider from the Bully. He is failing.
DAVE: Show me what? An empty trash dumpster? It was supposed to look like an accident. I was hoping to see it in the paper. So help me, if this guy pops up While Jimbo does his best to stay warm, behind him on the hill, Gary can only watch as the Bully slides away.
BULLY: ( echoing in the cold )
JIMBO: He won't. He can't. He's
DAVE: Proof, Jimbo. I like to know my money's well spent. You got a week. Dave drives off as Gary walks over with his SNIFFLING nephew.
GARY: Slippery little sucker. You mind if we stop at a toy store on the way back?
PAUL: ( to himself ) ( to the corpse )
MARGARET: ( nervous )
PAUL: Sweetie, don't you worry about Raymond.
MARGARET: When he's around, it just brings back. Fuck.
PAUL: I know. He, he said he's probably gonna head back down South soon. Margaret smiles, relieved. The phone RINGS. Paul picks up.
MRS. WHERRY: Paul? Thank you so much for clearing the drive way. That was most considerate.
PAUL: I'm afraid I don't understand Mrs. Wherry.
MRS. WHERRY: You were out at the cabin this morning. Nice to see you getting some use out of that thing.
PAUL: Oh I see. No, you see that must have been Raymond. ( beat ) Very much so. No, no one was more surprised than we were. ( beat ) No, he's. indisposed right now, but I'm sure you'll see him again. He's going to stay at the cabin for a while until he. leaves. And bless you too.
PAUL: ".It was my own lovely lady, and she said, oh it's Paul pulls off. Kills his headlights. Pops the trunk.
PAUL: Well come on! How much easier do I have to make His words echo in the cold wilderness.
MARGARET: ( startled )
PAUL: ( startled )
MARGARET: She just wants that bacon.
PAUL: Such a little puppy. How late is "Rudys" open?
PAUL: ( really bad British accent )
PAUL: Sorry about this part. Paul pats the body on the shoulder, then looks up at the ridge and the long journey ahead.
DETECTIVE BOYLE: ( looking at the ridge )
PAUL: Florida. He didn't really talk about it much. He brought us this shell. Paul holds up a sea shell, obviously from the display at his office. Tears well up in his eyes. It's really all we have left. He'd been gone for five years. We'd given him up
DETECTIVE BOYLE: for dead, yes sir.
PAUL: How did you.?
DETECTIVE BOYLE: Anonymous phone tip from some Jamaican guy. Said he saw what looked like a body. We tracked you through his ID.
PAUL: Just like on TV. Boyle nods sympathetically I've got to see him. Please. Paul starts to make his way to the body. Boyle stops him.
DETECTIVE BOYLE: Mr. Barnell, I should warn you, an animal attack isn't pretty. There's not much left. Paul nods. They make their way over to the tarp. Boyle pulls it back. Is that your brother, sir? Paul leans in the man's face is hamburger. Paul nods.
PAUL: They chewed his ears off. What kind of animal does something like that?
DETECTIVE BOYLE: Normally I'd say bear, but these tracks and the feeding pattern indicate wolf. It's rare, but it can Boyle pulls the cover back over the body. Boyle hands Barnell a clear baggie with the dead man's wallet inside. Your brother's personal effects. We've got some people with the victim's assistance program who can help you through this. Marcie? Marcie, a female police officer, walks a distraught Paul away. As they go, another FEMALE COP approaches.
FEMALE COP: Coroner found some smaller bite marks on the Pups. Must have been the whole freakin' pack.
DETECTIVE BOYLE: Pups. Must have been the whole freakin' pack.
FEMALE COP: You want an autopsy?
DETECTIVE BOYLE: On what?
FEMALE COP: Derek found this. She holds up a clear evidence bag with the remnants of a strip of bacon on the Not the smartest snack for a hiker.
DETECTIVE BOYLE: Not the smartest snack for a hiker.
FEMALE COP: Messy animals aren't they?
DETECTIVE BOYLE: Messy. Messy messy messy messy.
TED: I take it you're done?
TIFFANY: Wanna hit some of mine?
TED: Wanna hit some of mine?
TIFFANY: ( hugging him harder )
TED: Now this is definitely a violation of Golf Dome policy.
TIFFANY: Must be all this talk about using your wood.
TED: Woods. So maybe later I can. check your grip?
TIFFANY: My dirty talk sucks?
TED: My dirty talk sucks?
TIFFANY: I like it when you try, though. Tiffany gives him a peck and flits back to a nearby chair. He hits one, skying it into a low hanging light.
TED: You know in some states they actually do this Tiffany looks over at one of the tacky tropically-theme'd mini-golf holes.
TIFFANY: So how many insurance companies are there in the United States? Like, a billion.
TED: That's not the point, Tiff. I've busted my ass for Liberty Capital. I don't want to quit. I deserve to be promoted out of this ice bound backwater.
TIFFANY: And when it happens, I guess I'll just be another notch on your briefcase.
TED: I can't believe you said that. You know you are. He looks around. Embarrassed, he lowers his voice. .the most important thing in my life.
TIFFANY: ( smiling/shouting )
TED: Hello? ( beat ) You're kidding me. Yeah, I'll hold.
TIFFANY: Your Mom?
TED: Million dollar life policy just checked.
TIFFANY: On a Saturday? What about the first annual golf, sex and pizza triathlon?
TED: Look, if this is. who I think it is, I may have found us a ticket out of here.
TIFFANY: We don't need a ticket. Tiffany stands, knowing it's no use arguing, she pulls on her coat. Ted tries to give her a hug. She falls into his embrace, but doesn't hug him back. Don't be late, OK?
TED: You won't even know I'm gone. CORPSE'S POV: Black. The drawer is pulled open. We are.
DETECTIVE BOYLE: That's him. Raymond Barnell.
TED: Could you? Boyle moves toward the head and pulls back the covering. Ted recoils. Cam leans in for a closer look.
CAM: Ouch. That's gotta hurt.
TED: So what's your line on this?
DETECTIVE BOYLE: Just what it looks like. Wolves got him. Maybe a grizzly with insomnia, but we didn't find any tracks.
TED: Would it surprise you to learn his brother tried to cash in his policy two weeks ago?
DETECTIVE BOYLE: You trying to tell me Mr. Barnell chewed off his brother's leg?
TED: Doesn't that make you the least bit suspicious?
DETECTIVE BOYLE: Mr. Watters, this is a nice simple ending. We like nice simple endings.
TED: But shouldn't you
DETECTIVE BOYLE: Ya know, I don't know thing one about insurance, but I'm guessing it's your job to find a way not to pay these poor people.
CAM: Hey now, we're just like you guys, gotta run down whatever leads we can find. Ted walks down to the head of the victim, pulls out a camcorder and starts to tape the body.
TED: Detective, we're an insurance company, not the Salvation Army.
DETECTIVE BOYLE: Mind telling me what you're doing?
CAM: They gave every claims team a video camera last quarter. you'd be amazed at how it cuts down on litigation. We had this case two months ago where this mother of six was claiming.
DETECTIVE BOYLE: I've got my own war stories, thanks. You mind stopping that?
TED: Just doing
DETECTIVE BOYLE: Your job? Yes, I caught that. As Ted gets his last shot, Boyle covers the body back up and slides the drawer shut with a loud CLANG. Black.
TV REPORTER: You ready Mr. Barnell?
PAUL: The camera man flicks on his light as Paul squints.
TV REPORTER: The police told us what happened, how are you folks holding up?
PAUL: Obviously, my wife's very upset.
PAUL: ( ignoring her )
PAUL: You can see how stressful it's been, I should really go now. We have to plan a service. And with that, Paul opens his front door and ducks inside, quickly shutting it behind him.
TED: This isn't a standard case. You were there when this guy came in looking to cash in. C'mon, it stinks.
BRANCH: Secondly, if the police say this guy was.
CAM: Eaten by wolves. Sir.
BRANCH: ( incredulous )
TED: Mr. Branch, I'm sure head office would take a rather dim view of our
BRANCH: Corporate's view will be whatever I tell them. Cam, seeing his partner is about to get himself into a heap of trouble, hustles him toward the door.
CAM: Yes Sir. Color us called off, as of now.
TED: Stop looking at me right now.
CAM: You've got a strange way of bucking for a promotion, my friend. Look, I'm gonna start on the Johnasen file. You want to do up the paper work on Barnell? Ted grabs his coat. Where ya going?
TED: At 9:30? Ted is out the door.
CAM: At 9:30? Ted is out the door.
TED: The police say they found Raymond's wallet, that's how they tracked you down?
PAUL: That's right, yes.
TED: Any idea what he was doing out there?
PAUL: He'd go for walks. Hikes, I mean. Hiking.
TED: How sporty. Was he a big hiker?
PAUL: Not sure I follow.
TED: Did he hike more than once a week? Or was this a. one time thing?
PAUL: Can I ask why you need to know all this?
TED: Just trying to tie up a few loose ends.
PAUL: You know the police. they say Raymond died in the attack. You do cover that sort of thing don't you?
TED: ( forced smile )
JIMBO: Cod or Halibut?
GARY: Didn't ask.
JIMBO: ( digging in )
GARY: Small engine repair. See all the snow blowers out There is indeed a row of snowblowers lined up outside. Jimbo takes another bite of his fish. Should move the blowers over to the triple X store. Gary LAUGHS. Jimbo is in no mood.
JIMBO: So, which one you figure would want to take our I guess maybe the porn palace. Ya know for some weird sex film.
GARY: I guess maybe the porn palace. Ya know for some weird sex film.
JIMBO: Yeah, this place is just a hotbed of adult cinema production. Fish shop look clean?
GARY: Very nice Korean family. You figure maybe they battered him up? Gary LAUGHS again, then shoves Jimbo's shoulder. Maybe we're eatin' him right now. Huh?
JIMBO: Gary, this isn't a joke. You ever known Dave to joke? Gary, embarrassed, takes another bite of his fish. Jimbo turns up the radio. A local call-in show comes on.
GARY: Yeah, "Sorry." I get strip searched and you go off playing snow angels.
JIMBO: Yeah, "Sorry." I get strip searched and you go off playing snow angels.
JIMBO: Wait a minute.
TED: Yeah, hi, it's Ted Watters from Fidelity Mutual. ( beat ) I need a complete credit work up on a Raymond Barnell. and Paul, a Paul Barnell too. sure, I'll hold. Cam walks by, leans his head over the top of the cubicle.
CAM: You start the month ends yet?
TED: Can you take care of it? I'm kinda. working on Oh God, you're not still on the Barnell thing are you Ted pulls Cam down into his cubicle, talks in a harsh whisper.
CAM: Oh God, you're not still on the Barnell thing are you Ted pulls Cam down into his cubicle, talks in a harsh whisper.
TED: I went to see him.
CAM: And? Then? So?
TED: Trust me. Something's not right. I can smell it. Help me buy a week.
CAM: We're gonna get in such trouble.
TED: I promise from now on you can come along on No more Cam goes to the coffee room and Ted disappears for three hours?
CAM: No more Cam goes to the coffee room and Ted disappears for three hours?
TED: I'll try.
CAM: And you'll work on your interpersonal skills?
TED: ( a long beat )
CAM: Good. Now if you'll excuse me, I'll go start covering your ass.
PAUL: Hey. How's my Princess?
MARGARET: OK. I took some Adavan. And called my psychic.
PAUL: ( picks up the phone bill )
MARGARET: Don't be mad. It's just. this week has been so. well with Raymond getting eaten by animals and someone trying to steal the fridge.
PAUL: I know. Why don't you
MARGARET: We got another letter from the HMO today.
PAUL: Have you opened it yet? Margaret starts to CRY, holding the letter up to her face the SOBS building to a full blown breakdown. Oh hey honey, come on now.
MARGARET: I'm sorry. It's just, fucking cocksuckers. Paul takes the letter, unfolds it and reads.
PAUL: "As we have stated previously. usual onset before the age of 18. coupled with no genetic history."
MARGARET: I'm sick! I'm really, really sick!
PAUL: Shush, now. ( reading again ) "We hasten to add, Tourette Syndrome is not."
MARGARET: Fuck them. Paul is about to say something, but returns to the letter.
PAUL: "As well, please reference our previous decisions regarding your claims for ADD, ODO, OCD,
MARGARET: They say you can't get it all of a sudden but I did. I really, really did.
PAUL: I know. They just don't
MARGARET: I'll kill myself. Then they'll see.
PAUL: That is nonsense talk.
MARGARET: Then you can go off and. .marry someone normal.
PAUL: You're the most normal girl I know.
MARGARET: I'm not crazy, Paul. Something's really wrong with He takes her to a small sofa, cradles her in his arms.
PAUL: I know, Sweetie. I know. And we're gonna find you the best specialists in. .what you have that we can.
MARGARET: I really think things are going to turn around. Call me cr. I just have a feeling. You just leave everything to me, OK? Is that OK? Leave everything to me? I Shit bag.
PAUL: I really think things are going to turn around. Call me cr. I just have a feeling. You just leave everything to me, OK? Is that OK? Leave everything to me? I Shit bag.
MARGARET: ( gently )
PAUL: That's my girl.
TED: PIZZA GUY
PIZZA GUY: Hi there. That'll be $12.97. Ted looks at his watch.
TED: What about thirty minutes or free?
PIZZA GUY: Doesn't apply when it's snowing.
TED: ( digging out his wallet )
PIZZA GUY: It doesn't snow every day.
TED: They should really tell people when they order.
TIFFANY: Would you just give him the money already?
PIZZA GUY: It's not my decision.
TED: I know that. I'm just saying.
PIZZA GUY: You understand though?
TED: You understand though?
PIZZA GUY: It wouldn't take much.
TED: It wouldn't take much.
PIZZA GUY: Full disclosure to the pizza consumer. I'll be sure to pass that along. The delivery guy leaves. Ted walks back into the living room. Tiffany comes over, grabs a slice.
TIFFANY: Why you gotta argue with the service industry?
TED: The problem with people today is they don't expect anyone to tell the truth. We've just come to accept lying as acceptable.
TIFFANY: If this is another passive/aggressive shot at Psychic Buddies, all our ads state "for amusement purposes Tiff, it has nothing to do with. look, just forget it.
TED: Tiff, it has nothing to do with. look, just forget it.
TIFFANY: You remember being amused, don't ya, honey? What is with you anyway?
TED: Want to know what's "with" me? I'm on the verge of cracking the biggest case of my career, one that corporate has to notice, and nobody gives a crap. Not my boss, and not even my girlfriend.
TIFFANY: So this is my fault?
TED: No, it's not your fault. I just want to live somewhere where road hazards don't have antlers and the pizza doesn't have to be delivered by dogsled. Tiffany storms off as Ted flops onto the couch, swipes the snow from the top of the pizza box and hits play on the DVD.
TIFFANY: You know, even though Edward G. Robinson wins, everyone like Fred MacMurray better. She SLAMS the door. Ted doesn't move, lost in his own world.
MRS. WHERRY: It was terrible. Just terrible. Raymond should have known better.
TED: ( re: the mounted heads )
MRS. WHERRY: Greatest sport on earth. Moved to a compound bow two years ago. Arthritis. Less draw weight. She mimics pulling back an imaginary bow with her bony hand. Coffee OK?
TED: I'm fine. Did you talk to Raymond at all when he came home? Was he getting along with his No. Only saw him the once. Never spoke. Waved to He was clearing my driveway. Raymond was a real hellcat when he was younger. But like they say, time mellows even the hardest soul.
MRS. WHERRY: No. Only saw him the once. Never spoke. Waved to He was clearing my driveway. Raymond was a real hellcat when he was younger. But like they say, time mellows even the hardest soul.
TED: MRS. WHERRY
MRS. WHERRY: He was clearing my driveway. Raymond was a real hellcat when he was younger. But like they say, time mellows even the hardest soul.
TED: Was he much of an outdoorsman?
MRS. WHERRY: I thought it was Paul at first. Have you met Paul's wife? Now there's a story. Not that I'm much for gossip, but I think Raymond used to have a
TED: Mrs. Wherry, I'm sorry, but
MRS. WHERRY: Sorry. Did Raymond like the outdoors. Not so much, no. Liked living out here at the cabin, though. I think he had some friends on the police force. Have you talked to them? They'd pull up here day and night, always looking for
TED: I'm sorry, did you say you thought it was Paul who did your driveway?
MRS. WHERRY: Well in a ski mask you can hardly tell who's who. Now, how 'bout some jerky? I've got it drying out Ted at his cubicle, thinking hard as he chews on some jerky as he works the phone. Snow whips by outside the window.
TED: ( just waiting to cut in )
CAM: Now, now. Let's not forget who's pulling double duty.
TED: ( hanging up ) ( to Cam: forced )
CAM: Much better. So?
TED: Turns out our Mr. Barnell is mortgaged to the nuts. His business is about one step away from chapter 11. Plus it's like his brother Raymond never existed. He's got no credit history, no nothing for the last five years.
CAM: Ya know, not having a credit history isn't actually a crime. People around here have been known to swap a snow mobile for 500 pounds of venison. Doesn't exactly leave a paper trail.
TED: Yes, but he was in Florida, someplace. Plus, the only thing he did after his recent "reappearance" was get some new ID and a new credit card. Didn't charge anything.
CAM: Wow. Less than nothing.
TED: It's something.
CAM: No it's not. in my humble, junior investigator's The phone RINGS. Ted picks up.
TED: Watters, claims. Yeah, hang on. It's personal. I promise. Cam shrugs, walks off. Ted waits 'til he's gone. Mr. Barnell. Your ears must have been burning, I was just sure, what time? Ted is scribbling down something on a pad of paper.
MINISTER: When someone is taken from us at such a young age we often ask ourselves, why? What possible purpose could this serve? The Minister is temporarily lost from view. Why is God, who is a loving God, capable of such The snow clears. Paul, a pillar of strength, discreetly checks his watch then sneaks a concerned look at Margaret who busily grins at everyone in sight. Ted's car pulls into the parking area.
GARY: We should have checked the funeral announcements right away.
JIMBO: 76 EXT. GRAVEYARD 76
PAUL: That was lovely, thank you so much.
MINISTER: Margaret, Paul, you two get some sleep. Paul looks nervously at Margaret, who is about to reply. As her mouth engages, a gust of wind obliterates most of her words, except for.
MARGARET: .nun banger. The Minister smiles, he must have misunderstood.
MINISTER: Paul turns to see Ted approaching. A blast of snow obscures his view. When Ted reappears, he's just a few steps away.
TED: Mr. Barnell. There was no hurry on this, we could wait until
PAUL: It's OK. We just wrapped up. This is my wife, As they shake hands, and Margaret opens her mouth to speak. Why don't you wait in the car, sweetheart?
MARGARET: Okee dokee, smokee. Margaret smiles and totters off.
PAUL: She's under a little strain right now. Ted looks down the hill at a small group of TV news vans, the REPORTERS just now venturing out into the cold.
TED: I see the media's here. They don't give people a moment's peace, do they?
PAUL: I called them.
TED: ( surprised )
PAUL: Well, they've been asking me to talk some more about Raymond. I thought now might be an appropriate time.
TED: And you'll just happen to mention your heartless insurance company that hasn't paid off your policy I had to borrow money for the casket, Mr. Ted.
PAUL: I had to borrow money for the casket, Mr. Ted.
TED: You are breaking my heart.
PAUL: No, I doubt that. They asked me to bring some photos of Raymond. Guess it's gonna be a pretty big story. He pulls out some shots of his brother. They whip around in the wind and blowing snow. Of course, we could walk over there together. You could tell them how deeply moved you were by this tragedy and how. the check is on its way? Ted thinks, grudgingly impressed with Paul's ploy.
TED: Enjoy your press conference, Mr. Barnell. Paul stuffs the photos back in his pocket and walks down the hill. Ted watches him go, is about to leave when a gust of wind forces him to avert his eyes. Looking down he sees a photo of Raymond Barnell, on the beach in swim trunks. Must have fallen. Ted pockets it and moves on.
JIMBO: That's your plan?
GARY: How tough can it be?
JIMBO: You ever try digging through six feet of half frozen sod? We'd need a back hoe. Can you operate a back hoe? Do you know where we'd get a back hoe? We don't even know for sure.
GARY: Oh please. Don't you think it's a pretty neat Maybe we just go explain it to Dave.
JIMBO: Maybe we just go explain it to Dave.
GARY: He won't take it well.
JIMBO: Then I'm all for new options, here, Gary. ( beat ) If we give the money back
GARY: Hey, wait a minute, now. We did the job. We deserve the
JIMBO: I did the job, Gary. I know, because I haven't been sleeping for the last week.
GARY: I don't know why you're letting it get to you like this. Look, let's just not rush into anything. It's my turn to step up. I know that. I'm on it. They look on as Paul is interviewed by the reporters.
MARGARET: Hey little, Bambi. Where's your Mommy? Gettin' it from some ten point buck. Yes she is. Yes she is. Just then, a THUMPING sound from the garage causes the fawn to bolt. Margaret turns, suspicious. She picks up the portable phone as she moves toward the door.
MARGARET: Stay away from our fucking appliances. Gary spins, shocked to see Margaret.
GARY: Lady, just calm down. Margaret, eyes wide with fear, unleashes a hailstorm of soda cans, knickknacks, gardening implements and anything else she can lay her hands Hey! Would you. Lady. I have a He tries to close in on her, but the torrent of stuff ( a rake, a Whipper-Snipper, an old pair of skates. ) keeps him pinned down. Finally, he manages to grab his gun from his pocket. But even as he raises it. A Bissel Handvac catches him flush in the face. Sud of a bit! He drops to his knees, grabbing his nose, which is now gushing blood. Margaret reaches for her portable phone and starts punching numbers.
MARGARET: You are in so much trouble. Gary stands, pissed off, gun aimed at Margaret's head.
GARY: Lady, so help me I Gary ducks as the phone whizzes over his head and smashes against the garage wall. He stares at her. Game over.
CAM: So you're a souvenir wholesaler?
SPELLMAN: For the cruise ship trade, mostly. Usual stuff, stuffed animals, your huskies, your moose, your baby seals, your whales, your walrus
TED: They came in through there?
SPELLMAN: ( looking up/duh! )
TED: How much?
SPELLMAN: Uh, we figure about 200,000, plus fixing the roof. Now I know you guys are gonna bust my
TED: Fax over your estimate. We'll have you a check by Ted. Maybe we should take a look at their inventory list first?
CAM: ( taking Ted aside )
TED: This is a simple case, Cam. Bad guys, through roof, stole stuff. Let's clear it and get going.
SPELLMAN: I should tell you. we also had some VCRs we were holding for another company. That could run another couple of.
TED: Cam? You wanna wrap this up? Gotta go primary some time. Cam shrugs "sure." Ted hands him his clipboard and walks out, the door closes behind him with a loud BANG.
CAM: Mr. Spellman? Now I noticed a nice looking computer in your office. Why do you think they left Margaret sits taped to a Lazy-Boy recliner. Gary, who's still bleeding from the nose, sits across from her.
MARGARET: You try and rape me, I swear to Christ I'll bite it off. Gary looks confused. The doorbell CHIMES, playing "Tiny Bubbles." ( We stay in the living room as Gary answers it. )
MARGARET: So what now, you gonna get me smokin' from both Gary and Jimbo have no idea how to react. Margaret senses their discomfort, starts to relax.
GARY: I just came to look around, but she started yelling and hitting me.
MARGARET: Oh please.
JIMBO: How the hell is this solving our problem? How is this stepping up?
GARY: Just listen, okay.
MARGARET: Yeah, listen, if the fat from your neck hasn't stopped up your ears. Jimbo looks confused. Gary ushers him into the other room.
JIMBO: This is not what we do.
GARY: It is now.
JIMBO: Where would we stash her? Your place?
GARY: Too small, plus we'd have to get her in and out without anyone seeing. And I've seen that sty you call an apartment.
JIMBO: See, it's just a bad idea.
GARY: Yeah. Maybe. You see the whirlpool tub?
JIMBO: You can't be serious.
GARY: It could be like a little getaway. Off Jimbo, considering this.
PAUL: Hey Maggie-magster. How ya Paul stops short as he sees Margaret, Gary and Jimbo sitting around the table. Margaret's mouth is taped shut. Paul is about to lunge at the men when Gary slides his gun into view. He What are you people doing in my house?
GARY: Mr. Barnell. You have something that belongs to us.
PAUL: I, I don't know what you're talking about.
JIMBO: Do you remember a dead man you found in the dumpster behind your office? Paul, shocked, tries to hold it together.
PAUL: No, I can't say that. I mean that would probably stick in my mind a. dead body.
GARY: Think hard Mr. Barnell. He tosses the frozen lock of hair onto the table. Think hard. Paul realizes he's screwed, gestures to the living room.
GARY: I thought it might be some weirdo sex thing, ya know? But you look like a pretty straight arrow. So then I'm thinking, maybe it's a scam. Maybe somehow our friend is worth some money to you. Paul face lets Gary know he's dead on. So what'd you collect?
PAUL: We, we had a life insurance policy on my brother. It was for. 100,000 dollars.
GARY: You know, it's always you quiet guys. Here's how it's going to work. We stay here with your wife, you go get our guy.
PAUL: We even see you or a cop even roll past, she's dead. Plus you'll have to explain how you scammed the insurance people out of their hard earned money. We'll call you in three days. Have the body and, let's say 50,000 dollars for our trouble. Screw with us, we start mailing your wife back to you. Gary pauses for dramatic effect. Starting with her feet.
GARY: We even see you or a cop even roll past, she's dead. Plus you'll have to explain how you scammed the insurance people out of their hard earned money. We'll call you in three days. Have the body and, let's say 50,000 dollars for our trouble. Screw with us, we start mailing your wife back to you. Gary pauses for dramatic effect. Starting with her feet.
JIMBO: He gone? Gary nods, well pleased with himself.
GARY: He was scared. Really scared.
JIMBO: You used the feet thing, didn't you?
GARY: 87 INT. TED'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 87
TIFFANY: Hey, little help here. I got Pop Tarts. She sees the living room wall it's covered with charts, diagrams and theories. Ted on the floor, remote control in hand, replaying the shots of the body over and over. Don't tell me, "Sound of Music"? Honey? You OK?
TED: Shhhh. This is the important part. Ted rewinds the tape, hits play, rewinds it again as Tiffany watches, quietly at first, then with growing frustration. Finally, she walks over and grabs the remote control. I was watching that.
TIFFANY: This stops now. This case is making me and you crazy, especially you. No response. Tiffany plops on the sofa and starts leafing through Ted's files. Ya know, I am trying to be supportive. Leading experts agree that's the number one complaint men have about their mates.
TED: I don't have any complaints about my. you.
TIFFANY: ( re: the file )
TED: Yeah. He beat the hell out of some guy in bar fight. Broke the guy's eye socket. Tiffany scans the file, then looks up at the screen.
TIFFANY: I think you should read this again. He looks. She tosses him the file.
TED: I think you should read this again. He looks. She tosses him the file.
TIFFANY: I think you should read this again. He looks. She tosses him the file.
MARGARET: We don't have any money, you know.
GARY: Lady. Please.
MARGARET: If you want Raymond's fucking insurance money. we don't have that either.
GARY: It's none of your business what we want. Gary goes back to his cooking. Then. So how come you talk like you do? I mean, cursing all the time.
MARGARET: It's a disease. It's called Tourette Syndrome. I can't control what I say. Turnip.
GARY: You've taken a handicapped person hostage. I hope you're proud of yourself.
MARGARET: You've taken a handicapped person hostage. I hope you're proud of yourself.
GARY: I saw this thing on TV where they said people with that don't usually curse.
MARGARET: They must have got it wrong.
GARY: I don't think so. It was a movie of the week based on real events. Don't most of Tourette's people twitch and stuff? Margaret just glares. Oh, I get it. You got a spice rack?
MARGARET: Over the sink. And what's that supposed to mean?
GARY: Nothing. Cumin?
MARGARET: On the left. ( beat ) And I'm not. crazy, it's a physical disease. Sometimes I can control it, and You can't? Want to know what I think? I think this "syndrome" is something you read about somewhere and figured, hey, works for Ass-rimming ball-sucker.
GARY: You can't? Want to know what I think? I think this "syndrome" is something you read about somewhere and figured, hey, works for Ass-rimming ball-sucker.
MARGARET: Ass-rimming ball-sucker.
GARY: You can completely abdicate your societal responsibilities, say whatever you want whenever you want, and slough it off on a illness. Maybe I should catch this thing. "Gee, sorry Your Honor, I have a disease that makes me rob 7-11s." It's called really need a Slurpee disease.
MARGARET: You've never robbed a 7-11 in your life you shit eating fuck-weasel. What kind of man threatens a woman with a gun, anyway?
GARY: You are so faking it.
MARGARET: Oh, I'm faking it? Is this how you get your kicks, you over-compensating pussy little fart sack? Gary, suddenly tense, puts down his spoon and picks up his gun.
GARY: Hey! Keep your voice down or the gag goes back.
MARGARET: You don't scare me. If something bad was going to happen, my psychic would have told me. Gary awkwardly chambers a round, starts gesturing with the gun, trying to look You put that down now you little bitch, or so help me, I'll start yelling so loud you'll have to shoot me. Gary, confused and embarrassed, doesn't know what to do.
MRS. WHERRY: Paul, sorry to hear about your brother. You moving in?
PAUL: Just for a bit.
MRS. WHERRY: She'll come to her senses. They always do. Oh, the septic lines are frozen, so you'll have to use the outdoor commode. Paul waves as he enters the mobile home, closing the door behind him. A light goes on. It starts to snow.
PAUL: ( to himself )
PAUL: Who is it?
PAUL: ( as he unlocks it )
RAYMOND: Hello brother. He walks around, takes a copy of "USA Today" and throws it at Paul.
PAUL: Raymond? Is that.
RAYMOND: Page 16, Paul. That's why I love "USA Today", news from every fuckin' state. Don't you want to read it? I was eaten by wild fuckin' animals. But ya know, despite that, I'm feeling pretty God-damned chipper. Paul beats a hasty retreat, stumbling through the mobile home with Raymond right on his heels.
PAUL: Raymond, let me tell you what happened here. We all thought you were.
RAYMOND: Dead? Yeah, I got that impression.
PAUL: But you had dropped off the face of the earth.
RAYMOND: And you just decide to make it permanent?
PAUL: But there were no records of you anywhere. I With that, Raymond kicks his brother hard in the ribs. Paul doubles over, gasping for breath.
RAYMOND: In certain lines of quasi-legal employment, using your actual ID can be a hinderance. But despite the reliance on aliases, it's nice to have your actual birth certificate to fall back on. Gotta tell ya, Paul, I was pretty pissed. Raymond is about to kick him once more, but Paul puts up a hand, begging him to stop. Raymond, relents, then bends over and helps his brother to a sitting position. But then I start to think, Paul's no idiot. He woulda told 'em it's not me. Unless. Paul can only sit there and WHEEZE. Raymond sits beside him on the floor, pulls out a cigarette and lights it. So what is it? Frame job, lawsuit.
PAUL: Life insurance.
RAYMOND: Figured. So where's my money?
PAUL: Your money? They're still. investigating.
RAYMOND: What you get? Paul considers whether or not Raymond would even remember.
PAUL: Fifty thousand.
RAYMOND: ( with a shrug )
PAUL: ( not quite trusting him ) ( changing the subject )
RAYMOND: Gave up carbs. So what are you doing out here? She not go along with it?
PAUL: Who? Margaret?
RAYMOND: How she hold up, anyway?
PAUL: She's fine. Actually, we're not doing so good right Any kids? Still can't get one by the goalie, huh.
RAYMOND: Any kids? Still can't get one by the goalie, huh.
JIMBO: ( snarky )
GARY: ( snarky )
JIMBO: Talked to our friend. We're okay for now. How's everything here?
GARY: Oh, just great. Seventy six, perfectly normal. What a shock. Gary jumps up and storms into the bathroom just off the kitchen.
MARGARET: He's a little over tired.
JIMBO: It's been a rough week.
MARGARET: ( for Gary's benefit )
JIMBO: ( shocked )
MARGARET: I have a psychiatric disorder. And so do you!
PAUL: Mr. Watters. You said on the phone something about a resolution in our claim?
TED: Mr. Barnell. Why are you staying out here? Paul thinks about this for a long time. Then, finally.
PAUL: My wife and I, we're having some problems.
TED: Kind of understandable I guess. Seeing as how you killed that man and dumped his body out in the You mean Raymond?
PAUL: You mean Raymond?
TED: No. Not Raymond. Definitely not Raymond. I thought it was at first, but that's what was throwing I'm not sure I appreciate your tone.
PAUL: I'm not sure I appreciate your tone.
TED: My tone, Mr. Barnell? You are going to jail. I will personally see to that.
PAUL: I really think you should go now.
TED: You are a liar and thief. Paul stabs his shovel into a snow bank, then walks to Ted.
PAUL: You know Mr. Watters, I've had a pretty rough night, so if you wouldn't mind just leaving. Paul tries to guide Ted away, but slips and falls on the snow. Ted, rolling his eyes, reaches down to help him up.
TED: ( noticing the bruises )
PAUL: I'm fine, Mrs. Wherry. Just go back inside.
MRS. WHERRY: I can drop him if you want.
PAUL: I'm fine. Really. I think you'd better go. Ted backs to his car, gets in and drives off. Paul brushes the snow from his jacket, reaches up, touches his bleeding forehead ( the fall having reopened the wound ).
MRS. WHERRY: I've got some fishing line if you want me to stitch that. Paul waves her off, then stares at the blood on his fingertips. An idea slowly takes hold.
RAYMOND: He give you the check?
PAUL: No. He thinks I. It'll be fine.
RAYMOND: Maybe I'll pay him a little visit. See if we can speed up the process.
PAUL: You don't have to. I figured out a way to take care of Yeah, I was watching from the window. Paul, agitated, pulls the blinds shut.
RAYMOND: Yeah, I was watching from the window. Paul, agitated, pulls the blinds shut.
PAUL: You can't do that, Raymond. If someone sees you.
RAYMOND: Ya know, I been thinking there, Paulie.
PAUL: About what? Raymond walks over to Paul. Paul tenses, expecting to be hit. Raymond moves right by to refill his drink.
RAYMOND: After we get her back from these guys who grabbed her, you think your wife'll be able to keep her mouth I don't think I.
PAUL: I don't think I.
RAYMOND: Crazy people talk a lot. And I think if you tell your therapist something, they can use it in court.
PAUL: She's not. she doesn't have a therapist.
RAYMOND: ( taking a slug )
PAUL: Think about what?
RAYMOND: You crossed over into the bigs now, Paulie. Fraud. Consorting with felons. Got to "cowboy up."
PAUL: Cowboy up?
RAYMOND: Get tough, ya suck-hole. I'm just saying sometimes a man has to make problematic decisions. Cull the heard, so to speak. Paul, come on, just kiddin' around, here. Don't be such a fuckin' stick. Raymond, an enigma, looks at Paul, then grins just kidding. Paul relaxes. Raymond tenses not really. Paul's not sure how to read his brother as they shoot looks at one another sibling rivalry ad absurdum.
BRANCH: Watters. Glad you're. Mr. Barnell was just telling me about the. meeting you two had.
TED: I caught that, yes.
BRANCH: As you can see. well, Mr. Barnell has some. Paul turns to look at Ted. He has a large band-aid on his forehead, scratches and bruises on his face. It takes a second for the dime to drop.
TED: You don't think I did this? Paul gets up and moves to the other side of the office. Oh come on. I never laid a hand on him.
BRANCH: Ted, his neighbor says. otherwise.
TED: Now just hang on here. Let me show you Ted digs into his briefcase. He takes out a video tape, the police file on Raymond and the photo of Raymond Paul dropped in the snow.
TED: See? Where's the birthmark? Your brother's police report listed it. ".large purple birthmark, upper left thigh." But I don't see it. Not on this body. You can see it in the picture. See? Ted points to the photo; Raymond, in the summer, wearing shorts with a blotchy purple spot clearly visible on his leg. So what, Mr. Barnell? Did it just disappear? Did it just. get better. Ted grins. His moment. Finally. Seconds feel like minutes.
PAUL: It. did get better.
TED: Did it now. Well how in the world did that happen?
PAUL: Raymond was always. bothered by it. When he came back from. Florida, he'd had it fixed. Laser surgery. like removing a tattoo. Paul looks at Branch. It's an excuse Ted hadn't thought of before.
TED: He did not.
PAUL: You taped my brother's body, in the morgue? Paul stands and grabs the photo from off the desk. And this? You stole pictures of my family? And taped his naked body? What kind of sick company are you running here?
TED: Oh for. he's lying. It's obvious he. Paul, feigning fear, shrinks back into the corner. This is crazy. All we have to do is dig up the body. check the leg for scars. Dental records! Paul goes white. He hadn't thought about this.
BRANCH: That will be just about enough of that. Mr. Barnell, I'm sorry it's all come to this. We'll have a check brought over to you tomorrow morning. Paul nods, stressed and strung out, he hugs the wall as he walks out. After a Sir, with all due respect, he's
TED: Sir, with all due respect, he's
BRANCH: Jesus, we're lucky he's not suing. Now tomorrow, you deliver the check to Mr. Barnell with a complete Fine, I understand how this looks
TED: Fine, I understand how this looks
BRANCH: It looks like you beat the hell out of one of our policy holders. Now send Cam in here.
TED: Well, while you were off on your little Easter Egg hunt, your junior found us an out on that warehouse robbery. Head office is bumping him a level.
BRANCH: Well, while you were off on your little Easter Egg hunt, your junior found us an out on that warehouse robbery. Head office is bumping him a level.
TED: ( fuck me naked )
BRANCH: They're very keen on him. They want me to feel him out on a transfer Ted has left the office, SLAMMING the door behind him.
PAUL: Hello. yes, I'm wondering what city department would be in charge of. sure, I can hold. Hang on Mag Pie, just hang on. Paul puts a hand to his chest. Suddenly dizzy, he drops to his knees and starts to RETCH. Tears well up in his eyes. After a few moments, the storm passes. Still on his knees, the person on the line comes back. Yeah, hi. I was wondering if you could.. but I was. He sits there, on hold again, waiting.
RAYMOND: Listen you little prick, we've had just about enough of this. You get me? Raymond leans onto the door, Ted SCREAMING as his head is squashed in the vice. So let's just settle this right now, OK? We want what's coming to us. Ted tries to say "yes." Raymond releases his grip on the door, leans down and grabs Ted's wallet and walks off.
PAUL: Ray - Not wanting to use his brother's real name. Richard! What in the blazes are you doing?
RAYMOND: Hey Paul. Took care of our little problem today. We should see some serious money any time, soon.
PAUL: Could. I have a word with you?
PAUL: ( whisper )
RAYMOND: ( serious ) ( laughing )
PAUL: How did you get them here? Raymond pulls out the credit card Paul got for him.
RAYMOND: Put it on my plastic. See, got my name on it and everything. It's every where I want to be.
PAUL: You can't use that. You're supposed to be dead! They'll track us down.
RAYMOND: You think they give a shit who pays the bill? Think for a minute, will ya? Paul turns, trying to compose himself, when he notices a handgun sitting out on the counter.
PAUL: What. Raymond, what is. this? Paul pokes at the gun, sending the barrel spinning around to face him. Raymond grabs it and stuffs it into his pants.
RAYMOND: That's "muh gun," Paul. Paul's cell phone RINGS. Don't be long. The little spinner's yours. Paul picks up the phone as the party revs back up.
PAUL: Yes, hello. Sorry, what?
JIMBO: You having a party, Mr. Barnell? That's. that's not right. Margaret, now gagged, sits where we last saw her. She tries to talk through the gag. Gary's staring at his watch, calling out seconds.
GARY: Thirty, sorry, startinnng. Now! Paul pulls the kitchen door closed with his free hand.
PAUL: There's no party.let me talk to my wife.
JIMBO: Hang on. He hands the phone to Margaret. Gary leaps up and stops him.
GARY: Jimbo pushes past him, pulls down Margaret's gag and holds the phone to
PAUL: Why are you counting?
MARGARET: Paul? Are you entertaining?
PAUL: ( a wave of relief )
GARY: ( grabs the phone )
MARGARET: ( shouting )
PAUL: You sick. Don't you hurt her!!
GARY: I never said anything like Yes or no. Ten seconds.
PAUL: Yes! It'll. it'll happen tomorrow. Put Margaret back Paul! Chips!!
PAUL: Gary lunges for the phone cradle like it's the finish line in the 100 meter dash, slamming the phone down. A beat.
GARY: I think I managed to avoid a trace.
JIMBO: ( quietly to Gary )
AVIS: Hello. Can I help you?
TED: Mr. Barnell. I have your check.
PAUL: Thank you, I appreciate that. Please, sit. Ted sits at Paul desk, reaches into his brief case and pulls out an envelope and several forms. Have a little accident, there?
TED: I was mugged. The cops say it was just a random act of violence. But who knows, right? You'll have to sign. Ted slides the papers across to Paul, then gets up and moves around over Paul's shoulder. Where I've marked it with an X. And. I'd also like to apologize for my
PAUL: No, please. You don't have to. Paul, at a loss, starts to read the paperwork. He pulls open his desk drawer to grab a pen. Ted looks down, sees the Sea Shell in the drawer.
TED: That's quite the shell.
PAUL: ( picking it up )
TED: That and a million dollars. Things really worked out for you, didn't they? lots of cash, newly single guy.
PAUL: I'm not single.
TED: .so you gonna head down to Club Med? See how much fun a big bank roll can buy?
PAUL: Mr. Watters, I love my wife. Very much. Ted can't help but look confused by this simple, yet sincere declaration.
TED: Can we level with each other for a moment? Did you Before he can finish his question, a DELIVERY DRIVER entering the office with a large box.
PAUL: Avis! Avis? There's no answer. She's in the back. Will you excuse me? Paul gets up to deal with the delivery. Ted, sullen, picks up the shell and turns it over in his hands. Avis enter from the back. She smiles at Ted, then sees the shell.
AVIS: Oh, that's where you went. She takes the shell and reattaches it to the display for Aloha Air. Ted, confused, walks over as Avis snaps the shell back into place.
TED: That's quite the display.
AVIS: They do some very nice in store promotions. Paul walks back, shocked to see the shell now back on the display. Ted just stares at him. Here it is Mr. Barnell. I thought someone might have walked out with it. It's not the best neighborhood. Avis walks back to her desk. Ted and Paul hold their look. Finally, Paul walks back to his desk and the paperwork.
PAUL: So, right here, by the X. Ted nods. Paul signs. Ted takes the envelope with the check, hands it to Paul but doesn't let go. Paul tries to pull it free. He looks at Ted who looks right through him. Just then, the lights go out. They're all in the dark. We, uh. Avis? Call Municipal Light and Power and let them know I'll. stop by in a bit. Paul looks at Ted, embarrassed. Ted finally lets go of the check. Thank you. Ted shakes his head, gets up and walks out.
TIFFANY: There's nothing to be embarrassed about. A lot of people find talking to a psychic very therapeutic. So what's on your mind, Carlos?
PAUL: I have a situation. My wife. do you think it's okay to do something kinda bad to someone if you think they're gonna do something really bad to someone What if it's a really bad thing?
TIFFANY: What if it's a really bad thing?
PAUL: What if it's a really bad thing?
TIFFANY: Well, you probably shouldn't break the law if you can help it. Are you really sure they're going to do this other thing?
PAUL: I'm. I. I don't know. He said some things. He said he was joking, but I. I think he might.
TIFFANY: Don't think, know. How close are you to the other someone else, the one you're trying to protect?
PAUL: ( crying )
TIFFANY: ( touched )
PAUL: ( sniffling )
TIFFANY: Now you get tough. And remember, this call is for entertainment purposes only. Call me back and let me know how it goes. Tiffany hangs up and walks out. Ted tries to catch her eye and let her know he was just kidding. He can't. She goes.
PAUL: ( blowing by )
RAYMOND: Who's doing what?
PAUL: Margaret. You know that Stockholm Syndrome The movie?
RAYMOND: The movie?
PAUL: When you fall in love with your kidnappers.
RAYMOND: Get the fuck out of here.
PAUL: I went by there. She was in the bedroom with the big Not the first time, either. With other men, not kidnappers.
RAYMOND: For real?
PAUL: Her therapist. And some guy she. hardly knew.
RAYMOND: Wow. Sucks to be you.
PAUL: Shut up. Raymond, a momentary flash of anger, sits on the bed beside his brother. Paul does his best not to flinch.
RAYMOND: I always knew she was a fucking tease.
PAUL: Yeah. Guess you were right.
RAYMOND: Well, you want my opinion. I don't trust her, Paul. Never did.
PAUL: You think she'd. really mess things up?
RAYMOND: Only one way to make sure she doesn't.
PAUL: Not sure what you're saying?
RAYMOND: You remember that pooch Mom had? Crazy little Jack Russel with the bladder infection?
PAUL: Whole basement stank.
RAYMOND: Nothing you can do but put the thing out of it's misery. And yours.
PAUL: You. You sure, Ray?
RAYMOND: Trust me, Bro'. Leaky dogs, crazy women. Two things no man should have to live with. As Ray stands to go, Paul nods, his heart ripped apart for any number of Paul sits in the manager's office, signing forms. A large BANK GUARD stands nearby. The reason? One million dollars in hundred dollar bills neatly stacked on the desk.
AVIS: Mr. Barnell? I didn't expect you back today. Nice Well. I am. And Avis?
PAUL: Well. I am. And Avis?
AVIS: You've been with me for five years? Paul? Can we make it Paul? Paul enters the back room, closes the door. Avis walks over.
PAUL: You've been with me for five years? Paul? Can we make it Paul? Paul enters the back room, closes the door. Avis walks over.
AVIS: Sure. I just thought it was more professional when people were around to call you Mr. Barnell.
AVIS: Are you OK, Paul? Paul opens the door. Avis is surprised to see billowing clouds of down floating in the air behind him.
PAUL: No Avis, to be frank I'm a little frazzled right now. Now could you get me some tape, my passport out of the safe and two open-ended tickets to Paraguay. Paul shuts the door. Avis gets to work.
ARNITH: Trouble is the city keeps cutting us back and cutting us back. Raymond and Paul, wearing his big red parka, enter.
PAUL: Excuse me, are you Arnith? ARNITH sips his coffee, points to his name patch but doesn't look up. Great. I was told to give you this. Paul hands Arnith a folded form. Arnith puts his hand out, forcing Paul to move the form to him. As Arnith looks at it. Disinterment order. Got it from the coroner's office. My brother didn't want to be buried.
ARNITH: How'd you know?
PAUL: Know what?
ARNITH: That he didn't want to be buried.
RAYMOND: He left it in a letter.
ARNITH: And you just got it now?
PAUL: Ya know, I don't mean to be rude here, but I'm not sure this is any of your business.
ARNITH: That's entirely possible. Bill stifles a LAUGH. Raymond is about to tear out Arnith's spine. Paul holds his brother back.
PAUL: I, I don't think this is anything to be flippant about.
ARNITH: I appreciate that, Sir. But I'm on a union specified break right now, which means you are talking to me as a private citizen. Now as a private citizen I can pretty much say whatever I want to. If will be afforded every courtesy as specified in the workers policy guide and recently ratified in our latest collective agreement dated
PAUL: Sorry. I'm just
ARNITH: Trying to get your brother out of the ground. We couldn't be more pleased. You've arranged for transportation of the remains?
RAYMOND: We're gonna take him to go.
BILL: See, now that's a problem. We can't release the body into your custody unless you are licensed by the state to convey deceased persons.
ARNITH: Good point Bill. Bill knows exhumation policy. You can look it up but I'm betting he's right. You come back with a bonded agent and we'll get right on this. Paul thinks for a moment, digs into his pocket pulls out five crisp, new hundred dollar bills and SLAMS them on the table.
PAUL: I'll give you five hundred dollars to go get him now.
CAM: So. Miami, huh? Can you believe that? One little case and "boom", you're the flavor of the month.
TED: ( without a trace of sincerity )
CAM: Say thanks. I really owe you. If you hadn't given me a shot on that
TED: Forget it. I'm trying to.
CAM: So we were all kinda wondering. what did happen to your face?
TED: ( beat )
CAM: Should you be driving?
TED: Absolutely not. Ted gets up and walks to the door.
GARY: We set?
JIMBO: Yeah. How you feel about the turnout by Summit Hill where the snowmobilers park?
GARY: They all dig in. Gary looks expectantly. Just the sound of chewing. Finally, he can't wait.
MARGARET: Tastes like a rectal polyp. A long, protracted silence. Then.
JIMBO: ( to Gary )
TED: Blowing town, are we, Mr. Barnell? I don't think so. Ted staggers through the snow to the sign and drunkenly pushes it down into the snow. I'm not done yet "travel man!" You hear me?! LAUGHING, he takes some matches from his pocket and tries to light the "For Sale" sign on fire. It's no use. He quits. He's cold now. He gets up and staggers back to his car.
RAYMOND: See, I could have had her. We both know that, but I figured, she was such a. I mean, I don't know why. You know why?
RAYMOND: Does a duck shit under water? Paul walks in with two glasses. He hands Raymond the larger. Any trouble getting the bank to handle that much They said it'd be in tomorrow by
PAUL: They said it'd be in tomorrow by
RAYMOND: Right, right, you told me. Then all we have to do is get her and the thing. Hey, remember that time in school, when I jumped out and scared you, and you fucking pee'd all over yourself?
PAUL: Was pretty funny. Bottoms up.
RAYMOND: Okay, "Puddles." Remember how they called you that? Huh, "Puddles?" Christ, what time is it?
PAUL: It's early. Come on. ya. Raymond LAUGHS, takes the drink.
911 RECORDING: You have reached 9-11. All our operators are busy, but your call will be handled in the order in which it was received. If this is a Margaret, using her nose, hangs up.
RAYMOND: ( half asleep )
PAUL: We're out of coffee. But I'll be right back. Still early. Not to worry. Raymond has already rolled over.
MARGARET: AUTOMATED VOICE ( O.S. )
TED: Yeah? Hello? ( coughs ) Hello? He hits a few keys on the computer keyboard. The screen pops to life. The line Oh thank fucking Christ. Is Tiffany there?
MARGARET: Oh thank fucking Christ. Is Tiffany there?
TED: No, she's. He pulls off a yellow Post It note stuck to the computer. It reads: "Coffee made. Don't touch my computer. Back in 10." Unseen on the computer screen beside him, the name "Margaret Barnell" pops up, along with all her pertinent information like pet's name, husband, She'll be back in a few minutes. You want to try Well you should know, fuck-wit. You know there's a man with a gun in my shower, right now? Ted, distracted, turns as he hears the doorknob turning.
MARGARET: Well you should know, fuck-wit. You know there's a man with a gun in my shower, right now? Ted, distracted, turns as he hears the doorknob turning.
TED: Hang on, she's on her way Finally he notices the computer screen. Holy shit. Mrs. Barnell? But before she can answer, Tiffany walks in carrying a laundry basket, pulls the headset off Ted's head and holds it up to her ear.
TIFFANY: I'm here, Margaret. How you feeling today?
TED: Give me the headset. Ted grabs for the headset, Tiffany resists.
TIFFANY: ( to Ted )
MARGARET: Christ, where do you want to start?
TIFFANY: Sorry about that. Mrs. Barnell? Could you speak up a bit? Ted is at her side, trying to listen in by pressing his ear to the outside of the What's she saying?
TED: What's she saying?
TIFFANY: Something about the gay mafia taking her to a park to kill her. Can you hand me my Help Line list?
TED: What. Wha. Ted's throat seizes up again. He stumbles to the kitchen, gulping water from the faucet. Tiffany watches with some amusement.
TIFFANY: Margaret, are you sure these are real people in your Find out where she. His voice locks up again. More water.
TED: Find out where she. His voice locks up again. More water.
TIFFANY: ( listening to a profane ramble )
TED: Ask her. Ted's not doing much better.
MARGARET: Shit on toast. She hangs up, places the gag back in her mouth and hustles back into place.
TED: You're sure this is it?
TIFFANY: She specifically mentioned the cock-sucking turnout up the highway where the snowmobilers hang out.
TED: I'll call later.
TIFFANY: I won't be here.
TED: Excuse me? The phone RINGS. Tiffany lets it.
TIFFANY: I know relationships aren't all sunshine and roses, but I'm really not having fun anymore, and I don't think you are either.
TED: God, now's so not the time, Tiff.
TIFFANY: Maybe you have to be like this right now, and I'm just not in a good space to deal with it. But.
TED: But what?
TIFFANY: Maybe we shouldn't be like this together. Tiffany gives him that look every man who's ever crossed the line for the last time is all too familiar with. Ted stares. Words fail him. Finally, his only recourse is to hurry out the door which shuts with a BANG. Tiffany lets the phone continue to RING as she stares at the door. Sadly, she hits the computer key that picks it up. Psychic Buddies. How are you Mr. Bennett? I think she'd be fine with you remarrying, but hang on, let me concentrate. Ted opens the door, steps back inside.
TED: OK. Come on.
TIFFANY: ( to Ted )
TED: I've been cutting you out of my life and as a result our normal communication channels have been blocked. I think you coming with me would. would. He's reaching, but Tiffany looks cautiously hopeful. .further the development of our relationship and allow us to both. realize the potential of our. If you're going to be sarcastic.
TIFFANY: If you're going to be sarcastic.
TED: I'm not being anything. Swear to God.
TIFFANY: Okay. Why do you want me to come?
TED: ( total sincerity )
TIFFANY: ( into the phone )
TIFFANY: Okay, it's called the listening game. You talk, I listen, and I can't interrupt. Then we switch.
TED: Doesn't sound like much of a game, but. I can talk about anything?
TIFFANY: Ted smiles, and launches in.
GARY: See the little box down there? Lists all the symptoms of that Tourette's thing, and you don't have half of them.
MARGARET: And? And you're faking it.
GARY: And? And you're faking it.
MARGARET: Magazines don't prove anything.
JIMBO: Gary, can we just try and get there in peace?
GARY: Magazines prove everything!!
GARY: You can't be serious.
JIMBO: I'm still not sleeping.
GARY: Jimbo. Come on.
JIMBO: It's a thought, okay. With hard work, you can live okay as a civilian.
GARY: After all this.
JIMBO: Yeah, after all this.
GARY: Don't you go soft on me, Jimbo. Margaret LAUGHS through her gag in the backseat. Gary and Jimbo pretend not to hear her. They drive on in silence.
TIFFANY: So this is kind of like a really weird "Law and Order" Sure. I guess.
TED: Sure. I guess.
TIFFANY: And if Paul Barnell already killed his brother.
TED: Maybe his wife is next.
TIFFANY: Cool. My turn? Now a healthy relationship is.
TED: Hey, here we are. Ted takes the turnoff to the parking area.
GIRL: 152 EXT. PARKING AREA 152
JIMBO: Mr. Barnell. I'll assume you've got our friend back Yes. You can let her go now.
PAUL: Yes. You can let her go now.
TIFFANY: ( gently )
TED: I'm gonna go talk to him. You mind staying here?
TIFFANY: I guess. So when do we call the cops?
TED: Soon as I. if he actually is doing. something. I'll wave, alright? Tiffany gives him a quick kiss.
TIFFANY: That's a very good plan. Ted's about to jump out of the car, but has to pull back his door as another vehicle slides in beside them, the driver locking his brakes and sliding into the snow embankment. Ted, a confused look on his face, looks over as Raymond gets out of his That was.
TED: That was.
TIFFANY: Ted, too excited, fumbles with his seat belt as he tries to jump out of the car.
GARY: How do we know it's him?
PAUL: Come on! Where would I get another one? Good point. Paul hands him the ransom money.
TED: Excuse me. Aren't you. Raymond Barnell?
RAYMOND: I know you?
TED: ( confused )
RAYMOND: Go away, now. Raymond walks on. Ted, realizing he has no choice, runs and jumps in front of Raymond, blocking his way.
TED: Okay, I don't know exactly what's going on here, but if you would come with me to my office, just for a few minutes, it would really help me out with my boss. Raymond steps around Ted. Ted stays with him. Look, I'm not trying to screw with your life at all, but you can't just walk off with a million dollars and expect people to
RAYMOND: ( stops cold )
TED: See, your brother has, and I use this term carefully, stolen a million dollars from my insurance company. Now if we Before he can finish, Raymond hits him with an elbow to the temple. Ted drops to his knees, but even as Raymond tries to walk off, Ted manages to grab his ankle.
PAUL: It's all over honey. It's all over. Did they hurt you?
MARGARET: ( smiling/whisper )
PAUL: You know me when I get busy. She touches the bruise under his eye.
MARGARET: Did you fall?
PAUL: Just a little. Hey, we're gonna get. That's when Paul sees what Jimbo and Gary are watching. Raymond kicks Ted in the head, turns, spots Paul and breaks into a run. Paul seems frozen, but just for a moment.
JIMBO: Who the hell is that?
MARGARET: Paul discretely takes off his red parka and drapes it over Margaret's shoulders.
PAUL: ( quietly )
MARGARET: I'll catch up in a bit. Now, no matter what you hear, just keep going, alright. And if I'm. late or something, just look in the coat, alright? Margaret nods, kisses her husband quickly on the cheek, then starts to walk Paul, Gary and Jimbo watch, transfixed at the down-parka'd shit-storm that is headed their way.
PAUL: I'll catch up in a bit. Now, no matter what you hear, just keep going, alright. And if I'm. late or something, just look in the coat, alright? Margaret nods, kisses her husband quickly on the cheek, then starts to walk Paul, Gary and Jimbo watch, transfixed at the down-parka'd shit-storm that is headed their way.
GARY: ( nervous ) ( yelling )
RAYMOND: ( yelling )
JIMBO: What million dollars? Gary and Jimbo look over at Paul, somewhat confused. Raymond's ten yards out, and they can now see he's taken out his gun. He's aiming it at Paul. Paul looks over his shoulder at Margaret, who's having some trouble making it up a snow covered hill. Gary's hand slips into his pocket, grabbing hold of his gun. Raymond, oblivious, moves right past.
PAUL: Raymond. please. But shooting your brother is tougher than it looks. Paul opens his eyes. Raymond tries to pull the trigger again, but can't. He moves the barrel six inches to the right and shoots Margaret in the back. She drops face first into the snow. Paul's world ends. Ears RINGING, he rushes toward his wife. Jimbo can't believe it as Gary holds him back.
JIMBO: Hey! What the fuck!! Raymond, a look of relief on his face, turns to Jimbo. She had nothing to do with this!
RAYMOND: And you do? But even before Raymond can raise his weapon, Gary pulls his gun and gets it pointed ( shakily ) at Raymond. Oh put it down, Nancy.
GARY: You first.
JIMBO: Gary! Just Raymond drops his gun to his side. Gary smiles, too happy he won the face You win, tough guy. Gary, trying to be cool, flips the gun to his other hand. As he does BANG! The bullet rips into the snow about six feet from Raymond's feet. Raymond glares at Gary. So does Jimbo.
RAYMOND: You win, tough guy. Gary, trying to be cool, flips the gun to his other hand. As he does BANG! The bullet rips into the snow about six feet from Raymond's feet. Raymond glares at Gary. So does Jimbo.
GARY: ( meek, apologetic )
PAUL: Oh God. Oh Jesus.
MARGARET: ( muffled )
PAUL: Can you stand.
MARGARET: Is. The Pope. a.
PAUL: Okay, easy. Gary is behind the other car with Jimbo.
GARY: ( starting to lose it )
JIMBO: I know. As Jimbo puts an arm around Gary and helps him to the car, he sees Paul, arm around Margaret, coming their way. Everyone stops. A look passes, then both couples move off.
RAYMOND: ( laboured )
TED: Where do think you're going?
TIFFANY: Ted, leave him alone.
TED: No, no, no. I have been beaten, humiliated, had my head squeezed by a guy. and I am getting some answers, right now. Ted, barely able to stay on his feet ( concussion ) gets in front of Paul, and just stands there and waits. Paul can't help but feel bad for the guy.
PAUL: Well go ahead. I can still kind of hear out of this one.
TED: Well go ahead. I can still kind of hear out of this one.
PAUL: ( a long pause )
TED: ( between punches )
TIFFANY: They call this the listening game. Mr. Barnell, you get to go first. Ted glares at Tiffany, but her look instantly softens him. Ted looks at Margaret, who looks expectantly at Paul. Ted shrugs.
TED: Knock yourself out. Paul starts to talk, and Ted starts to listen.
TIFFANY: Hey yourself.
TED: Hey yourself.
TIFFANY: So where you want to go?
TED: Somewhere close. My three o'clock's been moved Cool. You alright about everything?
TIFFANY: Cool. You alright about everything?
TED: Yeah. The life policy was written on his brother, and he did, you know, die. I may be rationalizing a bit, but ethically I think I'm okay.
TIFFANY: Good. I like it when you're okay. The two walk down the street. Snow keeps falling. Tiffany shuts her eyes, looks straight up as the gossamer snowflakes land and melt on her face. She's never looked more beautiful. Don't ya just love this weather? Ted stares at her.
TED: Learning to. Tiffany grabs his hand and pulls him away, disappearing into the whiteness.
PAUL: How you feeling?
MARGARET: Pretty damn good.
PAUL: I can tell.
MARGARET: Can you? Paul takes her hand and gives it a squeeze. They head out.
DAVE: Why don't we go there after? Fine. We'll do it now.
DAVE'S WIFE: Watch the curb. Dave keeps backing up. As he takes the corner and bumps over the curb, the momentum sends the half-eaten body ( that Gary and Jimbo stuffed into the backseat ) to an upright position. They drive on, oblivious.
DAVE: Looks like weather.
