BLACK SWAN: Written by Mark Heyman, Andres Heinz & John McLaughlin
OPENING CREDITS:: A SPOTLIGHT slices black space. In its beam, a DANCER materializes. She is fair-skinned. Beautiful and pure. The maiden twirls on pointe, a smile on her face, light as air and carefree. She pauses, her face grows worried. Sensing someone watching. Scared, she peers into the darkness. She moves now, looking, growing more frantic. Then, a SINISTER MAN emerges out of the darkness behind her. She stumbles backwards, frightened. She tries to escape, twirling away, but he pursues. His true form is revealed, the demon ROTHBART. He flings his open hand towards her, casting the spell. She wants to scream, but nothing comes out. She looks at her body, sensing something happening to her. Something terrifying. She spins, panicking, but it's too late. She disappears beneath the beast's cape. She emerges as the WHITE SWAN, the iconic protagonist of SWAN
NINA: I had the most amazing dream last night. I was dancing the White Swan. No answer.
NINA (CONT'D): Different choreography, like the Bolshoi's. It was the prologue, when Rothbart casts his spell. Still no answer. Nina continues to stretch.
ERICA: You're in a good mood.
NINA: I'm just excited to get back.
ERICA: Off-season always makes you grumpy.
NINA: Look how pink. So pretty.
ERICA NINA: (inside joke) (inside joke) Pretty. Pretty. They giggle and Erica resumes packing Nina's shoulder bag with extra clothing, shoes, snack filled tupperware, duct tape, ribbon, thread, etc.
NINA (CONT'D): Plus he promised to feature me more.
ERICA: He certainly should. You're the most dedicated dancer in the company. Nina smiles, comforted, and begins taking her vitamins. Erica walks over with a SWEATSHIRT and holds it above her. Nina pulls it over her head and starts to push her arms through the sleeves.
ERICA (CONT'D): What's that?
NINA: What?
ERICA: There. Erica points to her shoulder. Nina feels and finds a small
ERICA (CONT'D): Sweet girl. Erica releases her and Nina begins eating.
VERONICA: Can't believe she's back.
GALINA: Of course she is.
VERONICA: She can't take a hint? Company's broke. No one comes to see her anymore.
SOLOIST 1: No one comes to see ballet period.
VERONICA: That's not true, I heard the Royal had one of their best seasons yet.
GALINA: He needs to try something new.
VERONICA: No, someone new.
SOLOIST 1: Like who?
VERONICA: Like someone who's not approaching menopause. They snicker.
NINA: I think it's sad.
VERONICA: What's sad?
NINA: Beth's such an amazing dancer.
GALINA: So's my grand-mother.
NINA: Fonteyn danced into her 50's...
VERONICA: Yeah, we know. Irked, Nina starts POUNDING the shoes against the floor to soften the toe. Her eyes are drawn to a NEW GIRL standing in the doorway. Nina pauses to scrutinize her. She wears vampy make-up, hair down. Dark and sexy.
NEW GIRL: Soloists? Wary, the girls mumble mmm-hmm's and nod.
BALLET MISTRESS: To the back, fondu, to the back, plie. Fourth, fourth, and one and fifth, to the back... (to a corps member) Like this. Push it. Why can't you do this? Using the mirror, Nina monitors her movements carefully. The mistress surprises her.
LEROY: We all know the story: virginal girl, pure and sweet, trapped in the body of a swan. She desires freedom, but only true love can break the spell. He taps a dancer on the shoulder, she lights up. He walks, then taps another. A selection process of some kind. Nina looks nervous, has an inkling of what it means.
LEROY (CONT'D): Her wish is granted in the form of a prince. He nears Nina. She sneaks peeks at him, eager and hopeful. He acknowledges her with a small nod and a smile. But he walks on without tapping her. She deflates.
LEROY (CONT'D): But before he can declare his love, her lustful twin, the Black Swan, tricks and seduces him. He approaches the New Girl. Nina watches, threatened. But he doesn't tap her either.
LEROY (CONT'D): Devastated, the White Swan leaps off a cliff, killing herself. But, in death, finds freedom. He taps one more soloist and then CLAPS. The music stops and all the girls face him, attentive.
LEROY (CONT'D): Good morning, company. They respond "Good morning" in nervous, unsure voices.
LEROY (CONT'D): We open our season with Swan Lake. Done to death, I know. But not like this. We strip it down. Make it visceral and real. He pauses for effect.
LEROY (CONT'D): And a new production needs a new Swan Queen. A fresh face to present to the world. Surprised, the soloists glance at each other, trying to keep their cool.
LEROY (CONT'D): But which of you can embody both swans? The white and the black? Nina prepares for disappointment.
LEROY (CONT'D): All the soloists I touched... Please go to your scheduled rehearsals this afternoon. The girls are confused.
LEROY (CONT'D): And the girls I didn't touch, meet me in studio B at five. Nina breathes, realizing the girls he didn't tap are the ones he's selected, purposefully toying with them.
BETH: What?!
LEROY: So Nina, would you like to be the Swan Queen?
NINA: If you want me to be. He leans in and talks softly so the other girls can't hear.
LEROY: Well, if I was just casting the White Swan, she'd be yours. She can't help but smile, flattered. He pulls away from her.
LEROY (CONT'D): But I'm not. He turns to the PIANO PLAYER.
LEROY (CONT'D): Maestro, Odile's Coda. The piano player rifles through the song book.
LEROY (CONT'D): Show me your Black Swan, Nina. Nervous, she glances over at Veronica and Galina, who anxiously await their turn. She takes a few breaths, then looks towards the piano player and nods. The music begins. Nina dances a few steps, and then launches into the most difficult and famous part of Swan Lake: The Black Swan's Coda. It consists of 32 consecutive fouettes (spins).
LEROY (CONT'D): Come on, not so controlled. The music builds in intensity, she pushes herself into the next turn.
LEROY (CONT'D): Seduce us! Not just the Prince, but the court, the audience, the entire world! The fouettes are like a spider spinning her web. Come on! Attack it! Attack it! Leroy runs his hand through his hair, dismayed. A look of worry spreads across Nina's face. Knows she's blowing it. The door CLANGS open and throws Nina's focus completely. She stumbles, several spins short of finishing.
LEROY (CONT'D): Good of you to join us. The New Girl notices everyone staring and pulls out her earphones to talk.
NEW GIRL: Sorry.
LEROY: Girls, this is Lily. Straight off the plane from San Francisco. She's filling Rebecca's old spot. LILY gives a small wave. Nina eyes her with scorn as she catches her breath.
LEROY (CONT'D): Go on, get warmed up.
LILY: I'm good. Lily starts stripping off her layers, revealing her lithe body. On her back, she has a TATTOO OF LILIES.
NINA: Should I go again?
LEROY: (distracted by Lily) I've seen enough. Thank you, Nina. She looks down, getting his meaning.
LEROY (CONT'D): Okay, Veronica. Your turn. The White Swan's variation... Furious, Nina marches out of the room.
ERICA: How did it go? Nina looks at her confused. Erica helps take off her coat.
ERICA (CONT'D): You were late, so I called Susie in the office. An audition?! Can't believe he just sprung that on you. Nina nods.
ERICA (CONT'D): So?
NINA: It went okay.
ERICA: Just okay? Erica hangs up her coat, turns and sees Nina tearing up.
ERICA (CONT'D): Darling? The tears start falling now. Erica goes to her and wraps her in an embrace.
ERICA (CONT'D): Shhh, shhh, tell me what happened.
NINA: Ow! She winces in pain and automatically grabs her foot.
NINA: I'm fine! Nina leans her back against the mirror and removes her shoe. Her right big toenail has split, oozing blood. Nina breathes through the pain and puts her shoe back on. She reassumes the position, takes a couple breaths, and starts spinning again. Her toe jabs into the floor. She winces a little with pain, but keeps pushing. Her face grows more determined, focused. 20, 21, 22 spins.... She starts to look powerful, willing herself to succeed.
ERICA: Shhh. Almost done...You're working yourself too hard. We all have off days.
NINA: If that girl hadn't barged in.
ERICA: I'm sure she didn't mean to. Remember when you started? If I hadn't taken you to each of your classes, you would have been completely lost.
NINA: I'm gonna talk to him. Tell him I finished it.
ERICA: He knows you can do the coda. It won't convince him one way or the other. Annoyed, Nina lies down, looking away from her mother.
ERICA (CONT'D): Oh, sweetheart, I know it's disappointing. When you start to get older, there's all this ridiculous pressure. God knows, I understand. Erica squeezes some arnica gel into her palm and massages it into Nina's calves.
ERICA (CONT'D): But it's alright. No matter what. You'll probably get to dance the Pas de Quatre again. That's such a wonderful part. Or maybe he'll make you a Big Swan. Either way, you'll shine.
NINA: I know, mom.
ERICA: Everything will be better in the morning. It always is. She strokes Nina's hair, humming along to the music. Nina watches the ballerina spin and spin with a determined stare.
LEROY: Yes, Nina?
NINA: Do you have a minute? He doesn't answer, just opens the door to the office and walks in. She takes a breath and then follows.
NINA: If now's not a good time...
LEROY: Now's fine, what is it?
NINA: I just wanted to tell you, I practiced the coda last night, and I did it.
LEROY: How thrilling for you.
NINA: Well...
LEROY: Okay, Nina, listen, I honestly don't care about your technique, you should know that by now.
NINA: Yes, but-
LEROY: Anyway, I've already chosen Veronica, so... He lifts his hands in the air, "there you go."
NINA: I see. She makes a move towards the door.
LEROY: You're not going to try and change my mind? She looks back at him, uncertain. Leroy nonchalantly stubs out his cigarette.
LEROY (CONT'D): You must have thought it was possible, coming to find me like this. He pauses, looks her up and down as if trying to decipher her.
LEROY (CONT'D): Why are you here? All dolled up?
NINA: I came to ask you to give me the part.
LEROY: That all? She doesn't know what he means. He comes around his desk and approaches her.
LEROY (CONT'D): Truth is, when I look at you, all I see is the White Swan. Yes, you're beautiful, fragile, fearful. Ideal casting. But the Black Swan...it's a hard fucking job to dance both.
NINA: I can be the Black Swan too.
LEROY: Really? She's hungry, volatile. In four years, every time you dance, I see you obsess over getting each move exactly right, but I never see you lose yourself. Insecure, she looks like she wants to run out of the room.
LEROY (CONT'D): All that discipline, for what?
NINA: I want to be perfect. He laughs.
LEROY: Perfection's not just about control. It's also about letting go. Surprising the audience. Surprising yourself. Transcendence. He considers her for a moment.
LEROY (CONT'D): Very few have it in them.
NINA: Without warning, he slowly plants a kiss on her mouth. It lasts for a moment, but he suddenly jerks away.
LEROY: Ow! Fuck! He touches his lip, stunned.
LEROY (CONT'D): You bit me.
LEROY (CONT'D): I can't believe it. That fucking hurt. He goes to the mirror to check for damage. He glances back at Nina.
NINA: Sorry. She quickly leaves, shell-shocked.
VERONICA: What? Nina shakes her head. A sudden energy sweeps the room, and she hears the sound of scuffling feet and whispering. "It's up." "She just posted it." "C'mon." The dancers start exiting into the hallway. Veronica turns to follow.
NINA: Veronica? Veronica turns around. It's hard, but Nina decides to be a good loser.
NINA (CONT'D): Congratulations. Nina subtly glances at the exiting girls and Veronica immediately gets it. She excitedly pushes through the crowd of girls, wanting to see for herself.
VERONICA (CONT'D): Your idea of a joke?
NINA: What?
VERONICA: Fuck you. Veronica storms away. The group of girls stares at Nina, making her very self- conscious. Nina tentatively approaches the bulletin board, to see what Veronica's outburst was all about. First a few, then more and more of the girls smile at her. They make room for her as she pushes through. She finally gets to the CASTING NOTICE, finds "Swan Queen"
NINA SAYERS: Stunned, she turns around to face the mass of ballerinas. She sees Lily eyeing her with a flat expression, which turns into a smile to mask her disappointment. The other girls start congratulating and hugging Nina, some more sincerely than others.
NINA: Hey...Everything's fine...He picked me, mommy. She waits for a response.
NINA (CONT'D): Did you hear me?...Yes, I'm going to be the Swan Queen. Nina laughs at her mother's response and can't help but start crying.
NINA (CONT'D): I'll be home soon, okay? I just had to tell you. Nina hangs up and the tears really start flowing. She's dreamt of this for so long, it's almost too much to bear. She wipes the tears off with the back of her hand and pulls herself together. She comes out of the stall... Horrified to discover "WHORE" written on the mirror in RED
NINA: Mom? Nina looks around, puzzled she isn't there.
ERICA: My daughter, the Swan Queen. She opens her arms and Nina falls into a hug. She looks at the cake. It has a ballerina sketched with frosting. Nina hides her disdain.
NINA: Oh, mom.
ERICA: It's our favorite, vanilla with strawberry filling. Erica picks up a knife and slices into the cake.
NINA: Just a little piece. Erica ignores her and starts cutting a very large piece.
NINA (CONT'D): That's way too much.
ERICA: It's a celebration.
NINA: My stomach's still in knots.
ERICA: Fine then. Erica grabs the whole cake and heads towards the trash.
NINA: Mom, don't. I'm sorry. Erica hesitates, but returns. She sets the cake back down.
ERICA: I'm just so proud of you. Erica lifts the slice onto a plate.
NINA: It looks yummy.
DAVID (CONT'D): It is so full, where do I stand. It is his version of a joke. Nina politely laughs.
NINA: Yeah...good luck finding a spot.
DAVID: I am David.
NINA: I know you are. I'm Nina.
DAVID: Yes. Here we go, huh? She nods, nervous.
LEROY: Okay! The music stops. Nina breaks out of character and looks at Leroy, anxious for his reaction. The Russian ballet mistress nods and smiles, clearly pleased.
LEROY (CONT'D): Okay, Nina. Very good. Nina smiles, relieved. Leroy hops out of his chair and approaches.
LEROY (CONT'D): But I knew the White Swan wouldn't be a problem. The real work will be your metamorphosis into the Black Swan.
NINA: Okay.
LEROY: I saw a flash of her yesterday. Get ready to show me more of that bite. He gives her an impish smirk. She looks down, embarrassed.
LEROY (CONT'D): Imprecise, but sensual. She's not faking it. Pay attention. Lily makes a small mistake, but cracks up laughing, amused rather than bothered by her blunder. Nina stares at her, attracted and threatened.
SUSIE: You share with Beth from now on, so be considerate.
NINA: Thanks, Susie. Awed, Nina looks around the room. She scans Beth's photographs and personal belongings, and lands on a large bouquet of FRESH FLOWERS.
SUSIE: Those are for you. From Mr. Leroy.
NINA: Beautiful. Susie leaves. Nina pulls a card out from the flowers and reads. A faint smile curls her lips. She opens her shoulder bag and removes a SMALL SATCHEL. She pulls out a pair of DIAMOND STUD EARRINGS and puts them on.
LEROY: Ready to be thrown to the wolves? We need their cash, so smile. She smiles, as instructed.
LEROY (CONT'D): Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. The crowd turns their gaze towards them. All eyes on her.
LEROY (CONT'D): As I stand here tonight, I see so many familiar faces. Your contribution to the art we all cherish profoundly goes straight to my heart and I am very grateful. Polite applause.
LEROY (CONT'D): Let me begin with a very important announcement. You all have had the chance to be enchanted, transported, sometimes devastated by the performances of this true artist of our company. She has been an exceptional inspiration to my work, a role model to our dancers and a deeply satisfying presence on our stage. You all know who I am talking about...Beth Macintyre More applause. Nervous, Nina unconsciously picks at her cuticles.
LEROY (CONT'D): As we all know, every great career comes to an end. Beth is retiring at the end of the season. She will be giving her farewell performance as Melpomene, the role she originated in my first ballet. People start whispering, stunned by the news. Nina sees Beth in the crowd, giving a sad smile to the surrounding guests. Trying to remain dignified.
LEROY (CONT'D): She will be greatly missed, but she will always be remembered. My little princess. Amidst the mummering, Nina sees Beth quietly sneak out of the crowd and out the front door. Leroy quickly covers.
LEROY (CONT'D): But as we bid adieu to one star, we welcome another! He looks at Nina. She stops picking her nails, self- conscious.
LEROY (CONT'D): As you know, we open our season with my new version of Swan Lake. Taking the role of our new Swan Queen is the exquisite Ms. Nina Sayers. Restrained APPLAUSE. Nina steps forward and curtseys. Someone seems to GIGGLE at her. Insecure, Nina glances towards the source and sees Lily flirting with a RICH GENT, uninterested in the official proceedings.
LEROY (CONT'D): Soon you will have the pleasure of seeing her perform, tonight we raise a glass. To all of you, to Nina, to Beth, to beauty! He downs his drink and the crowd follows suit.
LEROY: Dr. Brinson and his lovely wife, Ellen, tonight's sponsors. She shakes DR. BRINSON'S hand and curtseys to MRS. BRINSON.
NINA: Such a beautiful event.
LEROY: And this is Mr. and Mrs. Stein. Nina repeats the pleasantries, this time noticing that one of her cuticles is bleeding. She awkwardly pulls her hand away. Leroy leans in and whispers in her ear.
LEROY (CONT'D): Relax, you're doing great.
NINA: Just a second. She turns off the water and wipes her damp hands on the back of her neck, trying to cool herself. She checks her finger. No blood, but there's a HANGNAIL. Nina takes hold of the small flap and tries to yank it off. Accidentally tearing a strip of skin from the nail to her second knuckle. More KNOCKING startles her.
LILY (CONT'D): Hey! Look who it is. Lily closes the door behind her and locks it.
LILY (CONT'D): I'm Lily, by the way. Don't think we've officially met.
NINA: Nina.
LILY: Our New Swan Queen! That is so huge! You must be freaking out.
NINA: Yeah... Lily slides her PANTIES out from under her dress and puts them in her clutch.
NINA (CONT'D): I should probably get back.
LILY: Stay. Keep me company. Lily starts to refresh her makeup. Nina stays put for a second, uncertain.
NINA: Excuse me.
NINA: I think I drank too much. All those toasts...
LEROY: You did well.
NINA: Really?
LEROY: They tried to eat you alive, but here you are, in one piece.
NINA: I guess.
LEROY: I'll get you a cab. Where you going?
NINA: Oh, Upper West Side.
LEROY: Why don't you come to my place first? It's on the way. She gives him a coy glance, reading between the lines and hiding her excitement.
LEROY (CONT'D): For a drink. Unless you've had enough.
NINA: No, that's good. He starts to look for a cab.
LEROY: A minute more of ass-kissing. Wait here. He runs back inside to say his goodbyes. Nina smiles after him, giddy and anxious. She notices a slender figure watching her from the shadows of the adjoining doorway. In the dark, she looks like Nina.
NINA: Hello? Spotted, the figure backs up, seeming to disappear. Nina cautiously approaches, but can't see anyone. She gets closer to the doorway...and someone JUMPS OUT, startling her. It's Beth, drunk and shivering. Cheeks streaked with mascara.
NINA (CONT'D): Beth? What are you doing out here? Beth stares her down. Nina backs up, nervously grabbing her earlobe.
NINA (CONT'D): I was crushed to hear that you're leaving.
BETH: What'd you do to get the role?
BETH (CONT'D): He always said you were a frigid little girl. Her words needle Nina, too close to the truth.
BETH (CONT'D): So what did you do to make him change his mind? Suck his cock?
NINA: Some of us don't need to do that. Nina's struck a nerve. Beth starts to come at her.
BETH: You fucking little whore.
NINA: Beth, I'm-
BETH: I need to talk to you.
LEROY: You're drunk. You should go home.
BETH: Don't do that! Don't just dismiss me!
LEROY: Poor, poor little princess. Try to hold it together.
BETH: I'm going to drop by later, okay? I have something I want to give you.
LEROY: Come on. He puts his arm around Nina, starts to lead her away.
BETH (CONT'D): Make the most of it Nina. Through the cab window Nina looks at Beth, troubled by her words.
NINA: Thanks. She looks up at him, expecting him to make a move. Instead, he walks away, and sits in a chair. He gestures for her to sit as well. Confused, she sits across from him, alone on the large couch. He takes an unceremonious sip of his drink and studies her. Uncomfortable, she takes a drink as well.
LEROY: I thought it'd be good to talk about the role. Ground us a little.
NINA: Yes.
LEROY: The better we get to know each other, the more productive we'll be. I don't want there to be any boundaries between us.
NINA: Me neither.
LEROY: Good. So, do you have a boyfriend? She's caught off guard by his question and just smiles uncomfortably. He waits for an answer. Finally she manages a reply.
NINA: No...
LEROY: Have you had many in the past?
NINA: A few. But no one serious.
LEROY: You're not a virgin, are you? Her expression sours at this line of questioning. She shakes her head.
LEROY (CONT'D): Then there's nothing to be embarrassed about, is there? (she shakes her head) And you enjoy making love?
NINA: Excuse me?
LEROY: Sex. Do you enjoy it? Blushing and feeling awkward, she takes a sip of champagne.
LEROY (CONT'D): We need to be able to talk about this.
NINA: Okay.
LEROY: So? Nina looks at him, embarrassed, and shrugs. He smirks, and joins her on the couch.
LEROY (CONT'D): I have a homework assignment for you.
NINA: Yes?
LEROY: Go home and masturbate. Live a little. She blanches, scandalized. He finishes off his scotch and stands.
LEROY (CONT'D): It's late. Lots of work tomorrow. The doorman will find you a cab. He leaves her alone in the living room.
ERICA: Sounds like quite an evening. Wish I could have been there.
NINA: You know I asked.
ERICA: I know, Susie told me. Guess he wanted you all to himself.
NINA: That's not why. Erica looks adoringly at Nina's reflection in the mirror.
ERICA: I don't blame him. Erica starts to remove Nina's DIAMOND EARRINGS, but pauses.
ERICA (CONT'D): Where did you get these?
NINA: They're fake.
ERICA: Fooled me. Erica removes the earrings, then walks behind Nina to unzip her. Nina faces her.
NINA: I can do it.
ERICA: Turn. Nina turns back around, reticent.
ERICA (CONT'D): Oh Nina... Remembering, Nina pulls away from her.
NINA: It's just a rash. Erica gruffly pulls Nina to the mirror and turns her around.
ERICA: What are you talking about? Nina checks her reflection and sees the RASH, red and irritated from scratching.
NINA: It was worse a couple days ago. It's already getting better.
ERICA: You've been scratching again.
NINA: Erica yanks her out of the room.
ERICA: I thought you'd outgrown this disgusting habit.(click) You haven't done it for years. (click)
NINA: Mom, please. Erica grabs Nina's other hand.
ERICA: It's the role, isn't it? All this pressure... I was worried it'd be too much. Nina stares at her, seething.
ERICA: Don't be mad at me. You know I love you, you know I want what's best. But we have to take care of you. Nina doesn't respond. Erica opens the JEWELRY BOX and the tinny music begins playing. She hums and starts to stroke Nina's hair. Nina tries to brush her hand away. But Erica brings it back and keeps stroking.
NINA: What happened?
LEROY: She walked into the street, got hit by a car.
NINA: Oh my god...
LEROY: I'm sure she did it on purpose.
NINA: How do you know?
LEROY: Everything Beth ever did came from within. From some dark impulse. It's what could make her so thrilling to watch. Even perfect at times. But also destructive. Nina hesitates, but has to ask.
NINA: Was it right after we saw her?
LEROY: It's not your problem. This has nothing to do with you. She looks away, not so sure.
LEROY (CONT'D): Nina, don't let yourself be distracted. Dance is not immortalized like music, poetry or art. It lives for now. For this moment only. And this is your moment. She attempts a nod.
OLDER NURSE: You can go in.
NINA: It's okay. The older nurse gives her a skeptical glance and continues on her rounds. Nina walks a little further and leans against the wall to wait. She hears the sound of shuffling feet, looks over, and sees the group of people exit the room and walk down the hall, comforting one another. Nina steps out from hiding and goes inside.
OLDER NURSE: What are you doing?! Nina doesn't have an answer. She just stumbles out the door.
LEROY: No, no, not so stiff. Don't be scared of him. She pulls away from David, not at all coyly. Leroy exhales, frustrated.
LEROY: Forget about control. I want to see passion. She still looks tense, not getting it.
LEROY (CONT'D): Let it out!
LEROY: David, answer me this question: are you interested in fucking her? David snickers, embarrassed, shakes his head.
LEROY (CONT'D): No, of course not. No one would be. Leroy comes face to face with her.
LEROY (CONT'D): Nina, your Black Swan still looks no different than your White Swan. She's's just as...frigid. 49B Suddenly, the lights turn off, throwing them into total 49B darkness.
LEROY (CONT'D): Fuck! Leroy angrily marches to the door and whips it open.
LEROY (CONT'D): (to someone in hall) Hey! We're still working in here. Lights back on. There's a momentary pause, and then the lights return.
LEROY (CONT'D): Thank you! (to David, Piano Player) Okay, you guys can go. Thank you for your patience.
(TO NINA): You stay. David gives her an insinuating glance, then shakes his head. Very used to Leroy's "methods."
DAVID: Have fun. David and the Piano Player leave them alone. 49C Leroy approaches Nina and takes her hands in his. 49C
LEROY: I'll be the Prince. Made nervous by his touch, she nods. He walks behind her and puts his hands on her waist. He starts humming the score. And then they begin. They do a series of lifts and spins, Leroy bracing her. He lets go, she moves away from him.
LEROY: Use each finger, your face, your tits, everything. Entice me! He grabs her wrist. She spins. He lets go. He grabs her other wrist, she spins to face him. They get very close. Just before they kiss she dips, pulls away.
LEROY (CONT'D): Just feel my touch and respond. She turns and leans in close, as though to kiss him... almost touching lips...but then she tries to push off again. He tightens his grip, holds her there. She looks back at him, questioning. He looks at her intently, pulls her to him, and kisses her. She melts and eagerly kisses him back. He pulls away, momentarily.
LEROY (CONT'D): Slow down. Open your mouth. She doesn't.
LEROY (CONT'D): Open it. Nina follows his instruction. The kiss grows more heated and he wraps his arms around her. He pushes her back against the mirror. She whimpers. He runs his hand down her body, then reaches between her legs. She GASPS, tries to pull his hand out, but he persists. She throws her head back as he kisses her neck. She breathes deep, emits short MOANS, succumbing... Suddenly, he pulls away from her. She looks at him confused, flushed and breathing hard.
LEROY (CONT'D): That was me seducing you. It needs to be the other way around. He turns and starts to walk away. She can't believe it.
NINA: Please don't... He ignores her and walks out of the room.
NINA: Who's that? Lily emerges from the darkness, dressed to leave.
LILY: You okay?
NINA: I'm fine.
LILY: You sure? 50B Lily sits down beside her, oblivious of Nina's desire 50B to be left alone. She digs out a cigarette from her bag. Offers it to Nina. Nina doesn't take it.
NINA: We can't smoke in here.
LILY: I won't tell if you won't.
LILY (CONT'D): Big day's getting closer and closer, huh? I can't wait. You're going to be amazing.
NINA: Thanks... Nina wipes off her tears with her hand.
LILY: So, want to talk about it?
NINA: Just had a hard day.
LILY: Leroy play too rough? Nina looks at her surprised.
LILY (CONT'D): He seems like a prick.
NINA: He's brilliant.
LILY: Sure, but not exactly warm and fuzzy.
NINA: You don't know him. Lily smirks with a realization.
LILY: Someone's hot for teacher. Nina gives her a withering glance.
LILY (CONT'D): It's okay. I don't blame you. Nina stands up.
NINA: I should go. It's getting late.
LILY: Hey, I was only playing. Nina walks towards the door.
LILY (CONT'D): Nina? She ignores Lily and exits.
NINA: I'll be out in a second. She stays still, hoping she won't try to come in. Footsteps recede and Nina breathes. She runs her hands under some water to clean off the blood.
LEROY: Try it again. They resume dancing. She finishes, out of breath, and looks at Leroy and the Russian ballet mistress.
LEROY (CONT'D): Again. The piano music starts up again, and she begins dancing. When she finishes, she looks at him, eager for feedback.
LEROY (CONT'D): Again. The music starts up again. Nina stays still, frustrated.
NINA: Do you have any corrections?
LEROY: No. She doesn't understand. He gets up from his chair and goes to her.
LEROY (CONT'D): Lily talked to me. Said she saw you crying. Nina looks away. Can't believe Lily talked to him.
LEROY (CONT'D): She said you were upset and I should "take it easy" on you.
NINA: I didn't tell her that.
LEROY: Maybe you'd like a break for a day or two.
LEROY: Or a fucking month.
NINA: She shouldn't have said anything!
LEROY: I don't care! You shouldn't be whining to her!
NINA: I didn't.
LEROY: You could be brilliant. Taking it easy would be a betrayal. He walks away from her.
NINA: I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
LEROY: Stop saying that! Stop being so damn weak! He tosses his chair across the room. SMASHING into the wall.
VERONICA: Look who's gracing us with her presence...
NINA: Lily, I need to talk to you.
LILY: Okay...
NINA: Now.
VERONICA: (you're in trouble) Ooooh. The other girls giggle.
LILY: Shut up. And they do.
LILY: What's wrong?
NINA: You told Thomas about last night? Lily falters, guilty.
LILY: I ran into him this morning. He said you guys were having some trouble.
NINA: Why would he talk to you?
LILY: Whoa your highness, I just told him you're working your ass off and I'm sure you'll be great.
NINA: You shouldn't have done that.
LILY: I didn't fucking do anything. Lily takes off. Nina stares after her, at a loss.
ERICA: Has he tried anything with you? Nina doesn't respond.
ERICA (CONT'D): He has a reputation... Nina tries to ignore her.
ERICA (CONT'D): I have a right to be concerned, Nina. You've been staying late so many nights. "Rehearsing." I hope he's not taking advantage, that's all.
NINA: He's not.
ERICA: Good. I don't want you making the same mistake I did.
NINA: Thanks.
ERICA: Not like that. I just mean as far as my career was concerned.
NINA: What career?
ERICA: The one I gave up to have you.
NINA: You were 28.
ERICA: So?
NINA: And only... Nina bites her tongue.
ERICA: Only what?
NINA: Nothing.
ERICA: What?
NINA: Nothing. Erica glares at her.
ERICA: How's your skin?
NINA: It's fine.
ERICA: We leaving it alone?
NINA: Yes.
ERICA: Let me see. Nina stares back defiantly.
ERICA (CONT'D): Take off your shirt.
NINA: No. Erica starts to come towards her. The DOORBELL RINGS. Erica looks at Nina questioningly. Nina shakes her head.
ERICA: (to person outside) Can I help you? (pause) I'm sorry, she's not in. Erica shuts the door. Nina rushes out to see who it was.
NINA: Who was it? Erica doesn't answer. Irritated, Nina walks around Erica and quickly opens the door to find out.
ERICA: It's no one.
NINA: Hello? Lily turns.
LILY: Hey.
NINA: What are you doing here? Nina steps out of her apartment and closes the door.
LILY: I wanted to apologize. Nina just stares, incredulous.
LILY (CONT'D): You were right, I shouldn't have talked to him about you. Erica opens the door and sticks her head out.
ERICA: Sweetheart?
NINA: Give me a second.
ERICA: Your dinner...
NINA: Mom, please! Erica closes the door.
LILY: She's a trip...
NINA: How did you know where I live?
LILY: I have my ways. Nina looks at her, darkly.
LILY (CONT'D): Relax, I got it from Susie in the office. I feel really shitty. Can I make it up to you? Take you out to dinner?
NINA: I don't think-
LILY: A drink? Nina's tempted. Erica pokes her head out again.
ERICA: Sweetie, you need to rest.
LILY: Jesus. Nina pushes the elevator call button.
NINA: Wait. Nina walks to the door, and grabs her coat.
ERICA: What are you doing?
NINA: I'm going out.
ERICA: What? Nina ignores her and shuts the door.
NINA: Let's go.
LILY: Can't believe that's what he called her. So gross!
NINA: I think it's sweet.
LILY: Little princess? He probably calls every girl that.
NINA: Only Beth.
LILY: Well, I'm sure she lost the title after her game of chicken. Nina's smile fades.
LILY (CONT'D): Bet he'll be calling you little princes any day now.
NINA: I don't think so.
LILY: Sure, just gotta let him eat the pussy. Nina blushes, embarrassed, and Lily cracks up. A WAITER drops a plate in front of her.
WAITER: Cheese burger, extra bloody.
LILY: Danke schoen.
WAITER: Let me know if it's not juicy enough.
LILY: Oh, I will. He smiles, keeping his eyes locked on Lily, as he rudely plops down Nina's plate.
WAITER: Enjoy. Lily watches him go, then notices Nina looking annoyed.
LILY: What?
NINA: Guess I'm invisible. Lily studies her and digs into her purse. Pulls out a SEXY
LILY: Here, wanna spruce up? Nina gives her a puzzled look.
LILY (CONT'D): I always carry a spare, case I wake up somewhere unexpected. Lily picks up her ungainly burger and takes a big bite, a little grease dripping down her chin. Nina cuts into her dry chicken breast.
LILY (CONT'D): Not like you need more attention these days. How is he?
LILY (CONT'D): Thomas?
NINA: I wouldn't know.
LILY: Yeah, right.
NINA: I don't want to talk about it.
LILY: Relax, you're so tense. Lily pulls out a cigarette case and clicks it open. Inside, CIGARETTES and a couple PILLS.
LILY (CONT'D): One for you... Lily grabs one of the pills and slides it over.
LILY (CONT'D): And one for me. Lily grabs her pill and downs it with a beer. Nina stares at her pill, too embarrassed to admit she doesn't know what it is.
LILY (CONT'D): Don't worry, it's pure. Brought it with me straight from San Francisco.
NINA: What is it?
LILY: You're kidding? You never rolled? Nina blinks.
LILY (CONT'D): Oh boy. It'll just make you have a good time. Loosen up. See the night sky.
NINA: How long does it last?
LILY: Couple hours. Tops. Nina looks at the pill, thinks about it for a second...
NINA: That's okay.
LILY: Sure? Nina nods. Lily puts the pill back, and SNAPS the case closed.
LILY: Heeey, thought we could use some drinks.
NINA: I'm gonna go.
LILY: This is Tom and this is Jerry. The guys laugh.
ANDREW: Actually it's Andrew.
TOM: Tom.
NINA: Hi.
LILY: You can't leave, I bought you a drink. Lily holds out the doctored beverage. Nina eyes it, tempted to go down the rabbit hole...
NINA: I really shouldn't, we're on the stage tomorrow.
LILY: What, you gonna go home to mommy? Live a little. Nina grins sheepishly and takes the drink. Lily smiles.
NINA: Just a couple of hours?
LILY: Tops. Nina takes a tiny sip.
LILY (CONT'D): Go on. Nina takes another sip and smiles.
LILY (CONT'D): Let's go sit somewhere a little more comfortable. Gentlemen? She gets up and holds out her hands. The two men each grab one and she leads them deeper into the bar.
ANDREW: You haven't told me who you are.
NINA: Oh, I'm a dancer.
ANDREW: No, I mean your name.
NINA: Nina.
TOM: You two sisters?
LILY NINA: Yes. No.
ANDREW: Well?
LILY: We're blood sisters.
NINA: We dance in the same company.
TOM: Ahh, ballerinas. So that's why you look alike.
LILY: Tom and Jerry are gay lovers.
TOM: Very funny.
LILY: Oh, I just assumed.
ANDREW: I've never been to the ballet.
LILY: In that case you're definitely NOT gay.
TOM: It's pretty boring, isn't it?
NINA: No, it's not.
LILY: It's not for everyone. You probably aren't sophisticated enough.
TOM: You've got some mouth, you know that?
LILY: Isn't that compliment a little premature? Lily sips her drink, staring at Tom flirtatiously.
NINA: You guys should come sometime. I can comp you tickets. Tom laughs, amused by Nina's earnestness.
TOM: Yeah...that'd be neat.
LILY: I think we all need another round. Bottom's up. She looks at Nina and sucks down her drink, challenging her to follow suit. Nina takes a breath of courage and empties her glass. She waits for something to kick in.
LILY (CONT'D): Tom, come with me? Lily slips out of the booth and Tom follows, leaving Nina and Andrew alone. She avoids his gaze, nervous.
ANDREW: So...what are you guys working on these days? Her cell phone RINGS, interrupting him. She quickly turns it off and gives him an embarrassed smile.
NINA: Sorry. Swan Lake.
ANDREW: Yeah?
NINA: You know it?
ANDREW: Oh, no, not really. Heard of it though. What's it about?
NINA: It's about a girl who's been turned into a swan. She needs love to break the spell.
ANDREW: Okay.
NINA: Yeah, but her prince falls for the wrong girl and she kills herself.
ANDREW: So a happy ending, then?
NINA: It's beautiful, actually.
ANDREW: Like you. She starts to feel the initial tingles of the drug.
NINA: Huh?
ANDREW: I said you're beautiful.
ANDREW (CONT'D): That funny? She gives him a flirtatious glance.
NINA: My hands are all sweaty. Andrew touches them. She grabs onto his hands. She looks at his face. His eyes twinkle at her. Lily slides in next to her. Nina sees her and melts into her body. Lily hugs her back.
LILY: Uh oh! Looks like someone's rolling. Let's get you dancing.
LILY (CONT'D): Where you goin'?
ERICA: Do you have any idea what time it is?
NINA: Mmm-hmm. Late.
ERICA: Where have you been?
NINA: To the moon and back.
ERICA: You've been drinking.
NINA: Ding ding ding. Lily snickers, Nina tries to keep a straight face, but ends up laughing.
ERICA: What else?
NINA: Huh?
ERICA: What else have you been doing? Nina smiles coyly.
NINA: You want to know their names?
ERICA: You need to sleep it off.
NINA: There were two. Tom and Jerry...
ERICA: Be quiet, Nina.
NINA: I fucked both of them.
ERICA: Shut your mouth! Erica violently jams her fingers over Nina's lips, trying to silence her. Nina runs into her room and SLAMS the door.
NINA: Don't come in here! Erica tries to open the door, but it gets stuck. She peers her eye through the crack.
ERICA: What's this?
NINA: It's called privacy! I'm not fucking twelve years old anymore! Erica struggles a little with the door, but can't get it to budge.
ERICA: You're not my Nina right now!
NINA: Nina SHOVES the door shut. Erica's FOOTSTEPS retreat, followed by the SLAM of her bedroom door. 72B Nina is worked up, breathing hard. 72B
DOUBLE: Sweet girl. She SMASHES a pillow over Nina's face.
NINA: Why didn't you wake me up? Erica just stares at her, devastated.
NINA (CONT'D): I'm moving out. Nina whips out the front door and leaves her.
NINA: My music. She runs into the wings and sees the full company rehearsing on stage for the first time... Another girl dancing her part. The girl spins and Nina sees her face. It's Lily! Horrified, Nina runs onto
76 STAGE 76: and makes a beeline for Leroy, looking beyond apologetic. The dancers and piano player stop at the interruption.
LEROY: Keep going. Let's finish the Act. The piano music resumes, and the dancers pick up where they left off.
LEROY (CONT'D): That was good. Let's take 10, then we'll move on to Act 4. He turns to Nina and his smile fades.
LEROY (CONT'D): Get warmed up.
NINA: Thomas, I'm sor- He ignores her, and walks off stage. Lily tentatively approaches with the PRACTICE TUTU.
LILY: Hey... Nina snatches it, avoiding eye contact. She puts it on.
LILY (CONT'D): He wanted to go through the spacing. Asked me to step in. Nina starts stretching.
NINA: I overslept.
LILY: Oops... Least you had a good time, right? Nina doesn't answer.
LILY (CONT'D): Hello?
NINA: You put something in my drink.
LILY: Yeah...
NINA: And took off this morning.
LILY: This morning?
NINA: Yeah, you slept over.
LILY: Uh, no. Unless your name's Tom and you have a dick.
NINA: But we... Nina stops herself.
LILY: We what, Nina? Lily can read something on her face.
LILY (CONT'D): What, you have some kind of lezzy wet dream? Nina glances at the dancers, nervous they've heard.
NINA: You're lying.
LILY: Oh my god, you totally fantasized about me.
NINA: Stop.
LILY: Was I good?
NINA: Shut up! Other dancers look over. Nina resumes stretching. Lily just walks away.
LEROY: The Black Swan has stolen your love. There's only one way to end the pain. Nina climbs the stairs of the set and arrives at the "cliff," stopping at the precipice.
LEROY (CONT'D): You're not at all fearful. Filled with acceptance. Nina looks down. It's a short drop to a stack of pads, but a HARD FLOOR surrounds it.
LEROY (CONT'D): You look at the Prince, then down at Rothbart, and, yes, up at the audience...And jump! She hesitates, fearful.
LEROY (CONT'D): Go ahead. You'll be fine. Nina takes a breath and leaps in a swan dive. She falls...and lands in the pads, unhurt. Slight applause from the other dancers.
LEROY: At last, I saw the Black Swan.
COSTUMER: Sit still, I'm almost done. Nina startles. The reflection has returned to normal, its hand back at its side. Costumer checks one more thing, makes one more note.
COSTUMER (CONT'D): Okay, all set.
NINA: What's she doing here?
LILY: He made me your alternate. (can't help it) Just in case... Nina pushes past her.
NINA: Thomas! He stops and faces her.
NINA (CONT'D): She's trying to replace me.
LEROY: (to stage manager,
STAGEHANDS): Go ahead. I'll catch up. They continue walking.
LEROY (CONT'D): What's going on?
NINA: Lily. You made her my alternate.
LEROY: There's always an alternate, you know that. Lily's the best choice.
NINA: She wants my role.
LEROY: Every dancer in the world wants your role.
NINA: No, she's different. She's after me. She's trying to replace me.
LEROY: Nina...
NINA: Please believe me. He studies her for a moment, not sure what to make of this.
LEROY: Listen, I know it's been a struggle. But you had a breakthrough this morning. Nina starts to speak, he holds up his hand to silence her.
LEROY (CONT'D): Tomorrow is yours. Give a great performance, and you won't have to worry about Lily, or anyone else.
LEROY: No more. Go home and rest. Shut down, she watches him walk away.
NINA: What happened?
PIANO PLAYER: I gotta life, deary. He closes the music book and stands.
NINA: Hey! Hey! I'm still in here. No one answers. She looks at the cavernous auditorium. All those empty seats, faced towards her. Very overwhelming... She hears a noise in the wings.
NINA (CONT'D): Hey! Turn the lights back on! She gets to the other side of the stage, but the wings seem empty. Quiet. 86B Then she hears the faint sound of MUFFLED BANGING. 86B
NINA (CONT'D): Hello? No one answers. She heads towards the noise. The banging now accompanied by a
BETH: What are you doing here? Stunned, Nina's unable to answer. Beth follows her gaze to the random items on her table.
NINA: I'm so sorry. Beth begins touching the objects, vaguely remembering.
NINA (CONT'D): I didn't mean to make you feel this way. It's happening to me now. She's trying to replace me. Beth sees the earrings and it all clicks in.
BETH: You stole all these things?
NINA: I just wanted to be like you. Perfect. Beth shoots Nina a dark look and turns away.
BETH: I'm not perfect. I'm nothing.
NINA: It's not true.
BETH: Fucking nothing! Beth grabs the emory board and stabs herself in the face.
BETH (CONT'D): Nothing! Nothing!!!
NINA: Beth?! Nina spins Beth around. She is now a bloody version of THE DOUBLE! She continues stabbing herself. Nina grabs the Double's hand and struggles to restrain her.
NINA: Stop it! Stop! The emory board stabs into Nina's arm. Nina rushes from the room.
NINA: Mommy?! She goes out to investigate.
ERICA: What are you doing? Nina pushes past her, in a frenzy.
NINA: She digs into the open bump on her shoulder with her fingernails.
ERICA: Open the door!!! Erica violently pushes and pulls, jostling the piece of wood. Nina concentrates, takes hold of the growth and yanks. Blood vessels in her eyes explode, making the white turn red. Nina looks at the object held in her fingers: a sharp, TINY BLACK SPINE. Like that of a sea urchin. Damp, feathery wisps hang off of it. The door flings open. Erica rushes in and finds Nina half-naked, her skin inflamed.
ERICA (CONT'D): Oh my god... Nina starts forcing her out the door. Erica pushes back.
ERICA (CONT'D): Stop, you're sick!
NINA: Get OUT! She manages to get her all the way out the door. But ROTHBART'S HAND grabs the door frame. Nina SLAMS the door, SMASHING the hand. Erica SCREAMS in pain. Nina slams the door again, and again. The hand now human. She finally gets the door all the way shut. She steps away from it, nervous... She looks down, sees one of her knees SNAP backwards, like that of a bird. Then the other knee SNAPS back. Nina stumbles and falls. And SLAMS her head into the radiator.
ERICA: Sshh, shhh, it's okay. I'm here. Nina looks around, disoriented. Sees her hands jammed inside thick socks, held on by rubber bands. Groggy, she tries to pull them off.
ERICA (CONT'D): You were scratching all night. Erica helps remove the socks, her smashed hand wrapped in bandages. Nina weakly tries to sit up, but Erica pushes her back down.
ERICA (CONT'D): Rest. Shhh, rest. Nina gives in, too tired to fight her. Her eyes drift to the source of the tinny music: the open jewelry box. The ballerina's been broken off, all that remains is a single amputated leg, spinning morbidly on the base.
NINA: Where's the clock?
ERICA: Don't worry. Nina looks at the dark window.
NINA: It's dark. What night is it? Nina reads Erica's face. Reality clicks in.
NINA (CONT'D): What time is it?! Nina tries to sit up, but her mother pushes her back down.
NINA (CONT'D): I have to go.
ERICA: Don't worry. I called the theater and told them you weren't feeling well. Nina freaks, struggles more violently.
NINA: No, I want to.
ERICA: Lie down!
NINA: Get off me! Nina squirms free of Erica's grasp and gets out of bed. She gets to the door...
ERICA: We're staying in here until you feel better. Nina grips the metal post and pulls and pulls, shaking the door.
NINA: Where is it? Erica calmly sits down in her CHAIR, waiting for the storm to pass.
ERICA: This role is destroying you. Nina rifles through her dresser drawers. She notices her mother sitting calmly.
NINA: Move.
ERICA: Nina... Nina grabs her by the wrist.
ERICA (CONT'D): Stop it.
NINA: You're crazy!
ERICA: What happened to my sweet girl? Nina yanks Erica off the chair onto the floor.
NINA: She's gone.
ERICA: Please, you're not well. Under the cushion Nina grabs the hidden brass DOORKNOB. Erica lunges for her daughter's legs.
NINA: Let go!
ERICA: You can't handle it!
NINA: I can't?! I'm the fucking swan queen! You never even got out of the corps.
ERICA: You fucking ungrateful- Nina jams the knob onto the post, opens the door.
LILY: What are you doing here? The other girls follow her gaze towards Nina, and their smiles turn to confusion.
LILY: You're supposed to be sick.
LEROY: Lily, give us a minute. Leroy pulls Nina towards her room. Lily glares at Nina as she passes.
LEROY: Are you okay?
NINA: I'm fine. Nina goes to her wardrobe, finds her two costumes hanging. One for the White Swan, one for the Black Swan.
LEROY: Nina? She doesn't heed him, pulls out the White Swan leotard and sets it on her chair.
LEROY (CONT'D): Nina!
NINA: What?
LEROY: I already asked Lily-
NINA: Fuck. Have you announced it? He hasn't.
NINA (CONT'D): After Beth, do you need more controversy? Leroy smirks at her directness.
NINA (CONT'D): I'm here, Thomas. I'm doing it. He looks at her, considering, and gives her a reluctant nod. She smiles.
LEROY: The only person standing in your way is you. It's time to let her go. Lose yourself. She nods. He takes one last look at her and leaves. She breathes a sigh of relief. Curious, she cracks open the door and peeks outside:
STAGE MANAGER: Go. Nina takes a last breath and runs on.
102 STAGE 102: Under the spotlight, she begins dancing her intro.
STAGE MANAGER: What are you doing? You're on! He gently nudges her, and she has to run back on.
104 STAGE 104: Nina rushes from the wings, directly into David's arms. All the swans are frozen in two rows on each side of the stage, looking downstage. David launches Nina into the air, hands around her waist.
DAVID: What the fuck? She's too freaked to respond. They resume dancing, Nina barely keeping it together. Behind them, Rothbart appears and commands his flock to exit. The Little Swans start swirling off stage. Leaving Nina and David alone. David tries to pull her in one direction, but the dark hand of Rothbart summons her, transforming her back into a swan. She pulls away from David, frantically flapping, until she disappears into the wings.
ROTHBART: You alright? She looks up, sees his creepy MASK, and backs away. Rothbart has to go back on stage to finish the Act. Other CORPS MEMBERS surround her, chirping "You okay?, "What happened?" etc. Dazed, Nina doesn't answer. The music ends and there's a weak smattering of applause.
STAGE MANAGER: That's intermission! Act 3 in fifteen. The other dancers scurry to get ready, abandoning her. Nina sees Leroy on stage chewing David out, behind the closed curtain. David spots Nina, glares at her, and sulks away. Leroy runs his fingers through his hair, his back to Nina. Nina cautiously approaches.
NINA: It wasn't my fault. He dropped me. He can't even look at her.
LEROY: What a fucking disaster! He walks away. All alone, Nina sees everyone backstage looking at her. She runs, escaping their stares.
LILY: Rough start, huh? Pretty humiliating...
NINA: Get out of here.
LILY: Wow...rude. Lily coyly smiles, and continues applying makeup.
LILY (CONT'D): I'm worried about the next act. Not sure you're feeling up to it.
NINA: Stop. Just stop.
LILY: How about...I dance the Black Swan for you? Nina looks into the mirror. Instead of Lily's reflection there's the Double.
NINA: Leave me alone. Leave me alone.
DOUBLE: But it's my turn. Nina's fury rises up from inside.
NINA: Leave me alone!!! She charges... And smashes her into the WALL LENGTH MIRROR, shattering it. Shards fall everywhere. The Double flips Nina over and wails on her. Punch after punch. Nina does her best to block the onslaught. They scuffle, knocking things over, bumping into walls. The Double gets her hands around Nina's neck... Gasping for air, Nina tries to pull the hands free, but she's too strong.
NINA (CONT'D): It's my turn. Lily coughs up blood and collapses, dead. Nina stares at her, breathing heavily, high on adrenaline. A KNOCK on the door.
DAVID: She walks away from him. Alone, she looks at her arms, sees black points trying to push through again. Some fully emerge as shiny BLACK FEATHERS. She just watches them, not panicking, but accepting the transformation taking place. Even beckoning it. Her second entrance cue is played.
STAGE MANAGER: That's you! She leaps back on
LEROY: Get back out there! Get back- She stops his mouth with a kiss. The kind of kiss that you can't stop. Not desperate, but adamant. Finally she disengages, staring at him in the eyes, but before he can say anything... She turns and rushes back on stage. He's stunned. Like he's been run over by a truck.
STAGE MANAGER: Great job. You got fifteen til the last act. She nods and arrives at her room. She opens the door, makes sure no ones looking, and enters quickly.
NINA: One second. She goes to the door, opens it just a crack. She peeks through and finds... LILY looking back at her.
LILY: Hey...you were amazing. Nina's petrified.
LILY (CONT'D): Seriously. I'm sorry things got so messed up between us. Just, holy shit, totally blown away...
LILY (CONT'D): Anyway, wanted to tell you. I'll let you finish. Merde. Lily turns and walks away. Nina swiftly shuts the door. She turns around, stares at the wardrobe. She steps cautiously towards it, her face repeated countlessly in all the reflective shards. She lifts the towel from the ground and looks at it. It is clean. No blood. She looks down at the floor. No blood there either. She slowly opens the door to the wardrobe... And finds it empty. No body whatsoever. She looks over at the broken mirror. Sees her reflection staring back at her. She stares at it for a long beat, and realizes something. She touches her stomach and winces a little. Pulls back her hand. It's coated with red liquid. Blood. It's started to soak through the costume, creating a faint red spot. The fabric is ripped at the center of the stain. She feels inside for confirmation. And discovers a stab wound, in her own stomach. She pulls out the sharp tip of mirror still stuck inside. Blood begins flowing more rapidly. She drops the mirror.
LEROY: Listen to them! They love you! Get up, get up!
(MORE): I always knew you had it in you, little princess. Go take your bow! Nina is too weak to move. Lily pushes her way into the group and GASPS, pointing at Nina's abdomen. Leroy follows her gaze and discovers the spot of blood, which has grown in size.
LEROY (CONT'D): What did you do?
NINA: I felt it.
LEROY: Oh my god.
NINA: ...perfect.
LEROY: Someone, get help.
NINA: Shhh... Leroy looks back at her. She smiles.
NINA (CONT'D): It was perfect. He understands. The APPLAUSE grows more and more faint. Her eyes glaze over and everything goes completely SILENT. Nina lies there motionless, a smile frozen on her face.
