EMPLOYEE: Have you recently visited a tropical country? Uh-huh? In the past twelve months have you gotten a tattoo, non sterile acupuncture, or undergone any ear, skin or body piercing?
NURSE: ( referring to her clipboard ) I see from your questionnaire that you don't have any immediate next of kin?
NOMAK: Not that I'm in contact with.
NURSE: Nobody to call in case of an emergency?
NOMAK: ( apprehensive ) Does that mean I can't be a donor?
NURSE: It depends. We came up with some unusual results on your blood test.
NOMAK: ( anxious ) How unusual? Your blood has a very rare phenotype, one that's quite valuable to people like Us? What are you talking about?
NURSE: Your blood has a very rare phenotype, one that's quite valuable to people like Us? What are you talking about?
NOMAK: Us? What are you talking about?
DOCTOR: It's a good news-bad news scenario, Jared. Good news for us, bad for you.
NOMAK: With each pool of light, his awful smile seems to distort further and further, until his mouth seems to be widening all the way back to his ears.
BLADE: exits just behind them, eschewing the stairs completely and vaulting over the railing. He unholsters his MACH pistol as he drops, FIRING it as he lands in a cat-like stance on the snowy ground below BA-BANG! A silver-tipped bullet punches through T-Bag's chest. He turns to ash even as his fellow vamps dash through the disintegrating cloud that used to be his body. The embers melt the snow where they land. A super-charged foot chase ensues, with hunter and prey moving at speeds in excess of anything a human would ever be capable of. We're talking thirty-five, even forty miles an ON BLADE Running like a bull, condensed vapor streaming from his mouth and nostrils. Splashing through puddles of icy water storming through barriers of plywood and razor wire, leaping over mountains of garbage bags.
ON BLADE: Running like a bull, condensed vapor streaming from his mouth and nostrils. Splashing through puddles of icy water storming through barriers of plywood and razor wire, leaping over mountains of garbage bags.
BLADE: Bursts from the factory. Segura revs his BMW, trying to run him down. At the last second, Blade pivots aside like a matador. Segura circles around for another try. Blade leaps, somersaulting through the air, then lands on the back of the bike behind Segura. SHINGGG! Blade pulls a retractable garrotte wire from the sleeve of his jacket and wraps it around Segura's throat. With a violent twist, Blade decapitates Segura. As the vampire's headless body turns to ash before him, Blade leans forward and takes the controls of the speeding motorcycle. WHOOSH! Blade speeds after the other vamps.
THE OVERPASS: before them is under construction. There's a twenty-foot gap in the road where a portion is missing, pieces of re-bar poking out from the ends of the prefabricated sections. Rush and Jigsaw consider their options, but then they hear the ROAR of Blade's engine as he comes SCREAMING over the rise in the road! Fuck it. Rush powers his chopper forward, making the jump, burning rubber as he lands on the far side. Jigsaw torques his handle and follows, rocketing towards the gap.
ON BLADE: as he snaps his hand up a trio of Japanese throwing stars appearing between his fingers like a magician's cards. He flings the stars at Jigsaw's bike The throwing stars hit Jigsaw's back tire and the bike goes down, vomiting SPARKS as it slides forward. Jigsaw is flung forward like a ragdoll, out over the gap in the overpass and WHUNK! Jigsaw is impaled on the protruding re-bar! He HOWLS, instantly disintegrating as Blade makes the jump!
UP AHEAD: Rush cuts onto an on-ramp, powering his way onto the freeway.
BLADE: is gaining on him like demon of speed. Rush pulls a TEC-9, FIRING back at Blade. It's no good. Blade is nearly upon him, unsheathing his sword from his back Blade JABS his sword forward into Rush's rear-wheel. The bike locks up, flips over, BURSTS INTO FLAMES. The whole screaming wreck slews forward, SHOWERING SPARKS
RUSH: goes flying onto the road, rolling over and over, one of his legs SNAPPING at a bone-breaking angle. As he lies there MOANING, Blade circles around, sweeping past Rush's decimated bike, retrieving his sward from the burning wreckage. Blade kills the engine on his own bike and dismounts. Rush is pathetically trying to drag his broken body to safety. Blade approaches, placing his boot heel on the back of Rush's neck, forcing his face against the asphalt. He unholsters his MACH, pointing it at the vampire's bleeding head. Blade's opening line:
BLADE: Tell me where he his now and I'll consider you a loose end.
VAMPIRE: Nobody's th
BLADE: Old man, old man, what've they done to
WHISTLER: Why didn't you finish me off?!?! I told
BLADE: Come on, Whistler.
BLADE: Blade's voice ECHOES throughout the cavernous room.
BLADE: Knock it off. We've got work to do.
WHISTLER: is inside. Blade unfastens the hood, slipping it off. Immediately, Whistler sits up, LUNGING at Blade!
SCUD: Fuck me!
BLADE: You going to stand there crapping your pants or are you going to help me?!
SCUD: You got something in mind, Blade?
BLADE: Ultra-rapid detox. They use it on heroin addicts, make 'em go cold-turkey in one night.
SCUD: I don't know about this, man
BLADE: ( to Scud ) Get back!!!
BLADE: It's going to be a long night.
WHISTLER: Daylight. Son of a bitch.
BLADE: How do you feel?
WHISTLER: Like a fucking heifer took a dump in my
WHISTLER: You came back for me.
BLADE: Did you think I wouldn't?
WHISTLER: Took you long enough.
BLADE: Let's just hope you've kicked the Thirst for good. I'll be watching you close. You start to back-slide
WHISTLER: You put a bullet in my brain. Wouldn't expect anything else.
SCUD: Whistler. Cool beans. Nice to meet you, man. Heard a lot. I'm Josh Frohmeyer. You can call me Scud, though. That's what most people do.
WHISTLER: Tell me something, Skid
SCUD: ( checking the motor ) What'd you do to the Charger?
WHISTLER: ( checking the motor ) What'd you do to the Charger?
SCUD: The pimp-mobile? Just made a few after market modifications. Nitrous-oxide injection system, forged aluminum pistons and crankshaft, higher flowing fuel pump.
WHISTLER: Gave it a more aggressive exhaust profile ramping.
SCUD: Fuck yeah. Whole package'll crank this betty up another three-hundred And you'll burn the damn thing out before your next fucking oil change.
WHISTLER: ( cutting him off ) And you'll burn the damn thing out before your next fucking oil change.
SCUD: Look, what's your problem?
WHISTLER: My problem, shitbird, is that I tried to blow my fucking head off and wound up sucking blood clots for the last year and a half! Now you're standing there choking your chicken like we're all walking around some fucking candy-ass vampire sitcom!
SCUD: Hey, you think I don't know what's at stake here? We practically compromised our whole operation to save your puckered old ass! And for what?
WHISTLER: ( grabs Scud's shirt ) Our operation?! Our operation?! I built this operation, you fucking turd
SCUD: Motion sensors. Looks like Zone Three.
BLADE: Scud checks a series of thermal signature displays.
SCUD: Body temp's fifty so I'll guess suck
WHISTLER: They're fried. Whoever's out there is using magnesium flares. Seems like they've got your security system stopped out pretty well.
SCUD: Whoa, whoa, easy cowboy - I'm not trusting you with a weapon just yet.
ANGLE ON: TWO BLACK, LATEX-CLAD, NINJA LIKE INTRUDERS Running on all fours, racing upside down across the ceiling at break-neck speed. Then they drop, somersaulting down fifty feet, landing in a cat-like stance.
BLADE: Hit the God-lights.
ON BLADE: Unsheathing his sword, rushing at the First Intruder. WHAP! The Intruder traps Blade's forearm, pivoting, planting a boot in Blade's ribcage. Obviously, the Intruder is a serious martial arts student. WHAP!WHAP!WHAP! The two of them go at it, unleashing a flurry of kicks, blocks, and punches. The Intruder gets Blade in a back-choke. He twists out of it, throwing the Intruder over his shoulder, who neatly cartwheels, springing back off the wall at Blade again Blade ducks beneath one of the Intruder's kicks, then traps the Intruder's foot, giving it a savage twist. CRACK! Blade backhands the intruder with a blow so strong that it knocks the Intruder to his knees. Then the Intruder reaches for a short sword. In a heartbeat, the sword is out and against Blade's throat. Just as Blade's sword is not against the Intruder's. It's a stalemate.
SECOND INTRUDER: Blade and the First Intruder freeze. The Second Intruder steps away from Whistler, whom he clearly had the drop on, and tosses the CAR-15 to the ground.
BLADE: Take off your masks.
ASAD: My name is Asad. This is Nyssa. We represent the Shadow Cabinet. The ruling body of Vampire nation. They're offering you a truce. They want to meet with you.
SCUD: ( wiping blood from his nose )
NYSSA: For decades you've been the thing we've feared the most. But there's something else loose on the streets now
CLOSE ON: The final still. A blurry, horrific shot of Nomak's half turned face and back. We get a sense of distorted, inhuman
SCUD: This whole deal's giving me a serious case of the butt-willies.
WHISTLER: Look, kid, they obviously found your base of operations. If it was a trap, why flip their dicks by announcing I agree. We play along for now, we might wind up learning something about how their world ticks.
BLADE: I agree. We play along for now, we might wind up learning something about how their world ticks.
WHISTLER: ( grinning at Scud ) Either that or feeding the worms.
ASAD: They're ready to see you now.
BLADE: They tell bedtime stories about you. Blade the big, bad boogie-man. Frankly, I'm disappointed. That you were willing to come along so easily, I mean. Without any assurances.
NYSSA: They tell bedtime stories about you. Blade the big, bad boogie-man. Frankly, I'm disappointed. That you were willing to come along so easily, I mean. Without any assurances.
BLADE: Semtex explosive. Enough to level a city block. How's that for assurance?
NYSSA: The House of Erebus you encountered before were nothing but feudal lords. The true power of the Vampire Nation lies here
ASAD: Few warmbloods have seen what's beyond this door.
NYSSA: Damaskinos holds up his hand. He waits for the music to crescendo, then turns, his face still hidden in shadow.
DAMASKINOS: I hope you don't mind the cold. When one such as myself reaches an advanced age, certain precautions are needed in order to preserve the flesh.
ASAD: Blade, this is Overlord Eli Damaskinos.
DAMASKINOS: ( in vampire dialect; subtitled ) Welcome, Daywalker. I thank you for coming. I've been anxious to meet you for quite some time.
BLADE: For what?
BLADE: You're human.
STEVENS: ( with a smile ) Barely. I'm a lawyer.
ASAD: Mr. Stevens works with the National Institute of Health. Given that they monitor the nation's blood supply, a strategic alliance seemed prudent.
STEVENS: We also finance a number of humanitarian organizations the National Institute of Infectious Diseases for one, the Human Genome Project.
BLADE: Blade and the others turn to Nyssa, who uses a complex mechanical key to activate a holo-projector mounted above the table. As she focuses the image, a 3-D DIORAMA of vampire viral nucleocapsids swirls into view. The nucelocapsids begin attacking human red blood cells.
NYSSA: Blade and the others turn to Nyssa, who uses a complex mechanical key to activate a holo-projector mounted above the table. As she focuses the image, a 3-D DIORAMA of vampire viral nucleocapsids swirls into view. The nucelocapsids begin attacking human red blood cells.
DAMASKINOS: Thiavolos, as we used to say in Greece. The Devil. Pure Thirst. Nothing more. He was born a vampire, but he is an Like you. Unlike the rest of us, however, he feeds on not just humans, but vampires as well.
BLADE: Seems like he's doing me a favor, then.
NYSSA: You're missing the point. Their vampire victims don't die. They turn. They become carriers. If the Reapers continue unchecked, there could be thousands of them before the month is over. Do the math.
BLADE: ( vampire dialect; subtitled ) You want me to hunt them for you.
DAMASKINOS: ( vampire dialect; subtitled ) Not alone.
ASAD: We've been training a small tactical unit the Bloodpack. We want you to lead them.
WHISTLER: Just how long has this little social club of yours been together?
NYSSA: Two years.
BLADE: Then they weren't created to go after your "patient zero".
NYSSA: No. They've been training to hunt you.
BLADE: What do you think?
WHISTLER: Sounds like a plan.
BLADE: What do you really think?
WHISTLER: ( lighting a cigarette ) These guys are shitting bricks cause they're no longer on the top of the food chain. They're going to fuck us the first chance they get.
SCUD: So you're going to do this?
BLADE: Keep your friends close and your enemies closer. Isn't that how the saying goes?
SCUD: I'm worried about him. Look, I know he's your friend, but just watch him, okay? Nobody goes cold Turkey from the Thirst in a night.
A CAR: pull up to the pumps outside. A MAN gets out, slides his credit card through the reader, starts pumping gas.
HER POV: The car's driver side door hangs open. Even more disturbing, the hose for the gas pump lies untended on the icy ground, spilling fuel from its nozzle.
NOMAK: He smiles cruelly, the scar/seam in his chin just beginning to part. The woman gasps, turns to run and bumps into THREE MORE REAPERS. Gaunt and feral-looking. All three with shaved heads. No eyebrows, and hairline scar/seams running down their chins. As one, the reapers descend on her. We hear the child's TERRIFIED WAIL and we
SCUD: Um, we've got company.
WHISTLER: Well if it isn't Snow White and the Seven Suckheads.
REINHARDT: Check it out, troops. Count Chocula.
ASAD: Blade, this is Reinhardt. That's Snowman, Lighthammer, Priest, Chupa and
REINHARDT: Tell me something, Chief. Can you
BLADE: Alright, you want to play this game?
NYSSA: What the hell are you doing, Blade?
BLADE: We're going to be working as a unit, you people will be taking orders from me. So let's get it over with. I'll give you a free shot, Reinhardt.
CHUPA: Take him, cabron!
BLADE: What's wrong, Reinhardt? You need a fucking manual?
VERLAINE: Do it, Reinhardt. Do it!!!
BLADE: Listen up, Adolph, I just popped an explosive charge in the back of your head. Silver nitrate. Rigged to blow if anyone tampers with it. I'll be keeping the detonator on me at all times. You so much as look at me crosswise and I swear you'll be macking your girlfriend's pie with a fucking neck stump! Got it?!
WHISTLER: Hefting a heavy ordnance case on the table. Blade and company sit on one side, the Bloodpack on the other.
WHISTLER: ( opening a case of bullets ) Glaser safety rounds in .38, .45, and 9mm caliber. Foil capsules at the tip filled with silver nitrate grains. They pack a major kinetic energy dump. And since you suckheads don't like sunlight, we've modified the entry lights with UV
CHUPA: Hey, hey! The fuck you doing?!
WHISTLER: Getting your attention, Paco.
CHUPA: Well you've got it, warmblood. Now what the fuck are you gonna do with it?
BLADE: If you girls are finished flirting, I'd like to get started.
MOMENTS LATER: Blade, Whistler, and the Bloodpack are silently suiting up for war strapping on body armor, securing stakes and knives, CLICKING ammo cartridges into their various weapons. We SEE them lacing up combat boots, checking rifle sights, entry lights. Blade dons one of his EDTA pneumatic gauntlets. Whistler loads custom rounds into a shotgun. Then he reaches to clip on an ammo vest. But his hands are shaking slightly and he can't seem to clip the locking mechanism together. After a beat, Blade reaches over and does it for Whistler. Like a son helping his father. A beat passes between them, Whistler and Blade looking at one another. Then Whistler nods, satisfied. As Blade crosses towards Asad and Nyssa, he stops by Verlaine, sizing her up.
VERLAINE: ( cold ) That was my sister.
BLADE: This the part where you beat your chest and vow revenge?
VERLAINE: Something like that.
BLADE: Save it for the director's cut.
NYSSA: The House of Pain.
NYSSA: From what we can gather, the Reapers hunt in packs, targeting places where vampires congregate. So far, they've attacked bloodbanks, safehouses, underground clubs like this
WHISTLER: I don't see any traffic, no vampire
NYSSA: Look closer. Because of your efforts, we've had to re-think our habits, tighten our security.
WHISTLER: ( lowering binocs; to Blade ) Let's put this clusterfuck in gear.
REINHARDT: You're not going anywhere, greenjeans. You won't be able to pass for us.
WHISTLER: Like I give a shit.
BLADE: ( to Whistler; sotto ) He's right. They'll smell that you're human. Stay here, watch our backs.
WHISTLER: ( bristling ) I don't like it.
BLADE: I'm not giving you a choice, old man.
REINHARDT: You don't keep that dog of yours curbed, Blade. We might have to do it for you.
BLADE: Keep pushing, asshole.
NYSSA: This is our world you're entering. You may see things feeding. Just remember why you're here.
BLADE: ( cryptic ) I haven't forgotten.
PRIEST: So what are we looking for, exactly?
ASAD: Anyone who looks suspicious.
BLADE: You gotta be kidding me.
TWO VAMPIRES: French kiss, exchanging razor blades with their tongues.
BLADE: ( to Nyssa ) What is it with you people and pain?
NYSSA: We need it. Sensations are addictive and pain cuts the deepest. Tattoos, piercings, tribal scarring because we regenerate, none of it's permanent. So we have to take it to the next level. To remind us we're alive.
ON BLADE: Drifting through the press of flesh. Feral faces flash by us, distorted by the stroboscopic lights. A SHE-VAMPIRE latches onto him. He shoves her aside, keeps scanning faces. It takes every ounce of his restraint not to cut loose.
BLADE: You reading me, Scud?
SCUD: Everything's copacetic in the Mystery Van. How you doing, Whistler?
WHISTLER: Walking on sunshine, toke-boy.
CORPULENT VAMPIRE: Close the fucking door, buddy.
NYSSA: What was that?
BLADE: ( poker-faced )
SCUD: Um, Whistler, you out there?
BLADE'S POV: Nomak is scaling his way straight up the neon hotel sign, jumping from one letter to the next with lightning speed.
LIGHTHAMMER: Lighthammer's face becomes increasingly pallid! His face begins caving inward, shrinking as every millimeter of blood is vacuumed out of him.
BLOOD VESSELS: Are popping up beneath the Reaper's briefly translucent skin, becoming engorged and dilated. The veins continue to swell, racing up his neck, then branching out over his face, chest, and arms like an instant network of varicose veins. Verlaine retreats, horrified. Reinhardt scurries backwards, then scrambles to his feet, running for his life into
SCUD: UV headlights, c'mon, come on!!!
SCUD: Use your entry lights! They can't stand the UV!!!
ASAD: Use your entry lights!
THE SUN: beginning to rise beyond the cityscape horizon. Nomak is already at the opposite side of the building, moving fast.
BLADE: ( into com-link ) Whistler! He's heading across the roof! Take him!
UP AHEAD: Nomak abruptly stops, having reached the end of the roof. The nearest neighboring rooftop is too far away and the drop from this last ledge looks unsurvivable, even for someone like Nomak. As Blade cautiously advances, Nomak turns around and smiles a wolfish grin, unnaturally wide. The Reaper's face is beginning to smoke beneath the rising sun's rays. In response, a polarized nictomembrane slides down over Nomak's irises like something you'd see on a crocodile to protect its eyes from harsh light.
NOMAK: Is the enemy of my enemy my friend or my enemy? What do you think, Blade? What am I to you?
NYSSA: You're hurt.
BLADE: ( brushing off her concern ) I'll heal.
NYSSA: What about Nomak?
BLADE: He escaped. You didn't tell me they were immune to silver and garlic.
NYSSA: I didn't know.
BLADE: We lose anybody?
NOMAK: Lighthammer and
ANGLE ON: Priest, being held down by Chupa and Snowman. He's thrashing about, clutching his wounded, infected arm.
PRIEST: Oh god, oh God it hurts! It hurts, it hurts, fuck, it hurts. Ugh!
BLADE: how long since he was bitten?
NYSSA: Blade draws closer. Already, the flesh on Priest's chin is splitting as a seam begins to form.
BLADE: It's already changing him
REINHARDT: Jesus, can't you get him to shut the fuck up!?
NYSSA: ( gravely ) His blood cells aren't producing oxygen anymore. His own body is suffocating him. These things are like crack addicts. If they don't feed every few hours, they'll feed on themselves.
REINHARDT: Somebody put him out of his misery for fuck's sake!
VERLAINE: You kill him! I'm not killing him!
CHUPA: The juddering horror that used to be Priest staggers to its feet. Reinhardt and his men panic, stumbling backwards. The headless monstrosity LUNGES STRAIGHT AT
BLADE: Without batting an eye, he draws his MACH pistol, briefly aiming at the on-rushing creature's chest, then adjusting his aim to one of the blacked-out windows above and behind it. BAM!BAM!BAM! Blade shoots out the window and BLAZING SHAFT OF SUNLIGHT slices down through the darkness, spotlighting Priest like an ant beneath a magnifying glass. FWASH!!! The headless body is incinerated in mid-step. It collapses to the floor, just inches before Blade. One of its blackened claws feebly grabs Blade's boot, then grows still. Beat. You could hear the pin drop in the silence that follows, every one of the Bloodpack thinking some variation of "there but for the grace of God go I". Asad lays a hand on Nyssa's shoulder, steadying her. Blade shifts his foot, causing the cinder-like hand gripping his boot to crumble to dust.
BLADE: I thought you were supposed to be watching our backs.
WHISTLER: Ran into a little Reaper trouble myself.
CHUPA: ( approaching, hostile ) Oh yeah? Like how little? In case you hadn't noticed, we lost two men while you were out farting around.
WHISTLER: ( poking Chupa in the chest ) You need to ratchet those 'nads of yours down a few notches, paco.
CHUPA: Listen, hillbilly, you are a cunt-hair away from cowboy heaven.
WHISTLER: Ain't no thing but a chicken wing, Where were you, Whistler?
BLADE: ( still suspicious ) Where were you, Whistler?
WHISTLER: I'll show you.
A REAPER: Cowering by the culvert. One we recognize. The other vampire guard from the bloodbank, now transformed. He's shrunken and emaciated, pale. And although he's obviously dying, he still HISSES, his fanged mouth snapping ineffectually at them. His arm has been trapped pinned under one of the sectional culvert coverings. It looks like he's been trying to gnaw it off in order to escape.
REINHARDT: What the hell?
WHISTLER: I found him like this. I think he was trying to crawl back into that culvert.
NYSSA: ( calling down ) Everything okay?
DAMASKINOS: ( vampire dialect; subtitled ) ( vampire dialect; subtitled ) They've made contact with the Reapers.
STEVENS: ( vampire dialect; subtitled ) They've made contact with the Reapers.
DAMASKINOS: ( vampire dialect; subtitled ) Any casualties?
STEVENS: ( vampire dialect; subtitled ) Two so far.
DAMASKINOS: ( reverting to English ) An inevitability, I suppose. Nyssa was not among them, I trust.
STEVENS: No. This is a dangerous game, you're playing, Damaskinos.
DAMASKINOS: Any game worthy of being played is. One must be patient. In this way, I have outlived my enemies. All of them.
STEVENS: Blade's too volatile. You're not going to be able to keep manipulating him
DAMASKINOS: You worry too much, Stevens. I have assurance from our friend inside that events are unfolding as scripted.
STEVENS: As scripted? You've already lost two of your own. How many more are you willing to sacrifice?
DAMASKINOS: As many as it takes. Do you see that jar over there?
BLADE: Recognize him?
NYSSA: ( nodding ) From the surveillance footage in the bloodbank. He was one of the guard's Nomak attacked.
BLADE: Which means he turned about seventy-two hours ago.
NYSSA: Right. So why is he dying? He doesn't appear to have any broken bones, no entry wounds of any kind what's killing him?
BLADE: Blade nicks the Reaper's carotid artery with a knife. CLEAR SERUM oozes out, no red blood cells at all.
NYSSA: If that's true, what about Nomak? He's been alive longer than the others.
BLADE: Nomak's different. He's the carrier. There's something driving him beyond the Thirst. Something we're missing.
SCUD: Ho-lee shit.
NYSSA: I've never seen anything like this. The Reapers are as different from us as we are from you. It's almost as if the virus is re-wiring their bodies, creating new, parasitic organs which consume the old ones.
BLADE: Like cancer with a purpose.
NYSSA: Exactly. Look at the digestive system. It's been drastically simplified. Super charged. And this
SCUD: Good luck getting a stake through that.
BLADE: We've got six hours till sunrise. Be ready by then.
ASAD: What happens at sunrise?
BLADE: We take up the hunt again.
CHUPA: You gotta be fucking joking.
BLADE: You've seen what we're up against. Daylight's the only advantage we've got. They'll be more vulnerable then.
REINHARDT: ( pointedly ) And so will we.
BLADE: Look, I care about the humans who are dying, not you, got it?
REINHARDT: ( snarling ) Spare me the race card, OJ. We're not going out into the sun. It's too risky.
BLADE: You don't have a choice. You're just going to have to protect yourselves as best you can.
REINHARDT: You buying any of this chocolate Elvis
CHUPA: This guy doesn't know what the fuck he's doing. We already lost Priest and Lighthammer, who's gonna be next? Fuck him. Fuck his rules. First chance I get, I'm chowing down on that fucking HeeHaw sidekick of his.
VERLAINE: What do you think, Asad?
ASAD: ( pointedly ) I don't think. I follow orders.
WHISTLER: You ask me, you and Miss Muffet are getting a mite too cozy for my taste.
BLADE: I wouldn't worry about it.
WHISTLER: I am worrying. Seems to me, you're starting to get confused as to which side of the line you're standing on.
BLADE: Pretty hollow words coming from a man who spent the last year running with the What the hell is that supposed to mean?
WHISTLER: What the hell is that supposed to mean?
BLADE: It means I'm starting to wonder if the vampires still have their hooks in you. You've been acting strange ever since I gave you the cure. Reckless, quick to You said it yourself, Whistler. Those vampires knew our defense system backwards and forwards. Where'd they get their intel? I'm compromised?! Me?! I'm not the one playing stink-finger with Vampirella out
WHISTLER: I'm compromised?! Me?! I'm not the one playing stink-finger with Vampirella out
BLADE: You're out of line, old man.
WHISTLER: ( quietly ) We'll see.
DEALER: Lookin' to get hooked up?
CHUPA: What you got?
DEALER: Horse, Hawaiian ice. Whatever you want.
CHUPA: Whatever, huh? Well I'm all off the hook on that bitch.
DEALER: So what's it gonna be?
CHUPA: Chupa is at the dealer's throat before he can finish, flashing his fangs, shoving him backwards. Then
BLADE: What do you think you're doing?
CHUPA: Trying to feed, puto baboso!
NYSSA: Do it and you die. You heard Asad. Until this is over, these people are our allies.
CHUPA: Oh I haven't forgotten about Asad. I'm just wondering if you have.
NYSSA: He's right about one thing. We do have to survive.
BLADE: You don't have to hunt to do it.
NYSSA: Really? What are we supposed to do, then? Starve ourselves because we fee on others in order to live? What about that scumbag you just let off the hook? A nothing. A drug-dealer. How do you justify saving people like that?
WHISTLER: ( observing Scud ) The hell are you fiddling with there?
SCUD: ( proud, succinct ) Tweaked the phosphor rod, modified the collimated beam, wanna concentrate the light, get something like a UV laser ( shaking his head ) You're wasting your time, already been Yeah, but you didn't have the Scudster working on it, did you?
WHISTLER: ( shaking his head ) You're wasting your time, already been Yeah, but you didn't have the Scudster working on it, did you?
SCUD: Yeah, but you didn't have the Scudster working on it, did you?
WHISTLER: ( testy ) Nope. Back then we did not.
SCUD: ( unfazed ) So how long have you known Blade, Going on twenty years now.
WHISTLER: Going on twenty years now.
SCUD: Blade doesn't talk about the old days Blade doesn't talk about anything much. What about you, though?
WHISTLER: Blade doesn't talk about anything much. What about you, though?
SCUD: I was backpacking. Hooked up with these two chicks who were off to see the Burning Man festival. We were gonna take "E", have ourselves a little freeball out in the desert. You know the riff, "Dear Penthouse, I never thought this would happen to me, but "
SCUD: The powerpacks have a limited charge, maybe ten minutes of continuous use at
NYSSA: What are these?
SCUD: UV flashbang grenades with plug-in phosphor sticks This is for the grand finale. Wired together a couple-dozen of those puppies. But I'd be careful where you pop your load. Might end up frying yourselves in the process.
WHISTLER: What about you? You're not coming?
SCUD: After last night? Dude, I'm a lover, not a fighter.
ASAD: What good is all this firepower if we don't know where they're hiding?
BLADE: We won't need to. They'll come to us.
REINHARDT: Blade looks to Nyssa, who tosses Reinhardt an aerosol cannister. He sprays a little, then wrinkles his nose in disgust, gagging.
NYSSA: They're pheromones. I infused them from that Reaper's adrenal glands. All mammals use them to mark their territory. Even vampires.
CHUPA: Fuck that! I'm not spraying some gash hound's nut-juice on me!
NYSSA: Trust me, the Reapers will key to it. If we use this, we'll draw them out.
BLADE: Time for Nyssa's pheromones.
WHISTLER: Eau de suckhead. Tasty.
BLADE: We'll split into three units. First team that makes contact wins the prize. Try to maintain radio silence from here on out.
CHUPA: Turn it off.
WHISTLER: Yeah, but you fangs can see in the dark. What am I supposed to do?
CHUPA: Bifocals, grandpa. And try to keep up.
WHISTLER: ( startled )
BLADE: Must be hundreds of these skeletons So I think you people may have underestimated how many Reapers you're dealing with.
REINHARDT: So I think you people may have underestimated how many Reapers you're dealing with.
BLADE: So I think you people may have underestimated how many Reapers you're dealing with.
WHISTLER: What the fuck you doing?
CHUPA: Ain't nobody here but you and me, chicken wing. I'd say this is as good a time as any to settle up.
BLADE: Fry 'em.
ASAD: What? Where did they go?
VERLAINE: Screw that, where did Snowman go?
NYSSA: Jesus, they were playing possum!
THEIR POV: A HORDE OF REAPERS skitter away from the lights.
ANOTHER REAPER: Drops down atop Reinhardt, knocking his UV gun into the water. We SEE even MORE REAPERS converging in on them from the side tunnels in a cacophony of SHADOW and NOISE.
A REAPER: Leaps, landing on Verlaine's back. It grabs her head and deftly SNAPS her spine in half with a sickening CRUNCH!
ON REINHARDT: Firing his non-UV weapon. Two Reapers are closing in on him.
BLADE: Take mine!
BLADE: ( shouting into radio ) Re-group! Re-group!
NYSSA: Where's Chupa?
WHISTLER: Forget him, he's chunk-style.
ASAD: Same with Snowman and Verlaine.
WHISTLER: Guess that perfume of yours did the trick after all?
BLADE: ( quietly ) A little too well, I'd say.
WHISTLER: Perfect. We got the whole fucking Partridge family here.
A REAPER: Lunges at them from the North. Asad triggers his UV laser, scorching the creature. It HOWLS and slinks backwards.
BLADE: Give me the rest of the pheromones.
ASAD: What are you doing?
BLADE: Verlaine's body is back there somewhere with the UV bomb. If you train your guns in that direction, you'll drive an opening in their ranks. I'll run for it. When the Reapers come after me, you make a break for it the other way.
ASAD: You won't make it.
BLADE: ( hefting his UV gun ) Then I'll die trying, won't I?
NYSSA: Save it. I don't want to hear your words. Let's do this NOW!!!
BLADE: Save it. I don't want to hear your words. Let's do this NOW!!!
ON WHISTLER: cut off from Nyssa and Asad. He spots a maintenance ladder and runs for it, dragging himself up the rungs. A Reaper leaps up the ladder after him Whistler reaches the top of the ladder, but his exit is blocked by a manhole cover! It's STUCK! Whistler swings up his shotgun, FIRING into the cover. The cover is BLOWN UPWARDS, sending a shaft of blinding sunlight down on the Reaper below him. As the Reaper incinerates, Whistler scurries upwards to safety.
NYSSA: Bleeding and horribly burned despite Asad's sacrifice. Blade crouches, scooping her up into his arms.
ER NURSE: Sir, you can't just
DOCTOR: She needs a hypertransfusion. NOW! God in Heaven.
BLADE: She needs a hypertransfusion. NOW! God in Heaven.
DOCTOR: ( aghast ) God in Heaven.
POLICEMAN: Alright, buddy, step away if
BLADE: Do you want to die?
DOCTOR: Not particularly.
BLADE: ( holstering his MACH ) Then get your fucking team in gear.
NYSSA: Each day is a little life.
BLADE: "Each day is a little life. Every waking and rising a little birth, every fresh morning a little youth, every going to rest and sleep a little death."
NYSSA: "Each day is a little life. Every waking and rising a little birth, every fresh morning a little youth, every going to rest and sleep a little death."
BLADE: I don't think so.
NYSSA: Thank you.
BLADE: For what?
NYSSA: It would've been easy for you to let me die back there today, but you didn't.
BLADE: ( shrugging ) I wouldn't read too much into it.
NYSSA: Because one of us is going to kill the other before this ends.
BLADE: Because one of us is going to kill the other before this ends.
NYSSA: It doesn't have to be like that. We don't have to be enemies.
BLADE: Get real. I was useful to Damaskinos as long as the hunt was still on. Now that it's over, all bets are off.
NYSSA: ( pointedly ) If that's true, then why'd you save me?
BLADE: I am a hunter. A weapon. It's what I do. It's in my blood.
NYSSA: Well it's in mine, too. I'm a pureblood. I wasn't turned. I was born this way. Just like you. Am I evil because I want to survive? What about a wolf? What about any
BLADE: Pain cuts the deepest, isn't that what you said?
LATER: Blade and Nyssa lie in each other's arms, awash in moonlight, blissfully dead to the world until
SCUD: What's going on?
BLADE: He was here. Watching us.
SCUD: He wants us to know he's hunting us now.
BLADE: He wants us to know he's hunting us now.
MOMENTS LATER: Blade is at the computer workstation. He activates the footage of Nomak he was viewing earlier. He fast-forwards to a specific moment, then plays it back at normal speed.
NYSSA: I don't understand.
BLADE: Where the hell have you been?
WHISTLER: Just out connecting a few dots.
BLADE: What's your problem, Whistler?
WHISTLER: Why don't you ask your girlfriend?
BLADE: Then who does he work for?
WHISTLER: Some biotech outfit called Caliban Industries. They've been lying to us since day one. This Nomak fucker didn't evolve. He was designed.
NYSSA: I don't know what he's talking about.
WHISTLER: You expect us to believe that? Who you going to trust, Blade? Me or
STEVENS: A fist PUNCHES Stevens in the face.
BLADE: Stands in the entry way. Whistler is behind him, holding a gun to Nyssa. Scud is there, too.
BLADE: ( mobing in on Stevens ) Start talking, bitch.
STEVENS: I don't know what you
BLADE: Nomak! You created him!
STEVENS: ( in agony ) Alright, alright. Yes, we did. ( gasping )
BLADE: Keep talking, Stevens. Tell me why.
STEVENS: ( sputtering ) The Shadow Cabinet. For decades they've been trying to find a way to rid themselves of their hereditary weaknesses. Viral epidemiology, immunochemistry. Recombinant DNA was the next logical step.
NYSSA: ( genuinely horrified ) No, that's not possible. They wouldn't keep something like this from me.
STEVENS: Your father didn't want you to know. Something went wrong. The Reaper strain was too aggressive. Then Nomak escaped.
WHISTLER: And we're supposed to clean up your mess. Fucking perfect.
STEVENS: ( defensive ) Look, the fact that Nomak was artificially created didn't make the threat any less urgent. He was still out there, spreading the Reaper virus.
BLADE: The genetic material you spliced into Where did you get it?
DAMASKINOS: Jared Nomak is your genetic brother. And I suppose if you follow that line of reasoning to its logical conclusion, then these are your offspring.
TINY EMBRYOS: Each no bigger than a thumbnail, line the walls of the chamber, preserved in credit card sized cryo-cases. There are thousands of them, resting atop one another in racks with stretch from the floor on upwards. As Damaskinos removes an embryo from the rack, we see ANOTHER EMBRYO behind it. That cryo-case now slides forward with a WHIR, taking the place of the one which Damaskinos removed. Like some kind of perverse vending machine. God knows how deep they're stacked. If thousands are visible, there could be tens of thousands in total. Damaskinos holds the translucent cryo-case up to the light. The Embryo within shudders, its tiny heart beating.
REINHARDT: enters from the shadows, holding Scud's rail-gun. Much of his face has been burnt away, leaving him with a ghastly death's head mask of blackened muscle and exposed bone.
REINHARDT: Put it back in park, Blade.
BLADE: Thought you were dead.
REINHARDT: Seems like there's a lot of that going around these days.
NYSSA: Blade GASPS in shock. The rail-gun needles have ripped a brutal hole through the side of his chest-plate. He clutches at his flank, trying to staunch the blood that's seeping between his fingers. As he sits forward, we see MORE FLECHETTES have embedded in the wall behind him, having torn completely through him. Whistler steps forward. One of the vampire sentries LASHES OUT, striking him in the face with the butt of his rifle. Whistler sinks to his knees, stunned. The guard disarms him.
ON BLADE: Gritting his teeth against the pain. He reaches inside his combat harness, pulling out the remote detonator for the explosive flechette in Reinhardt's skull.
BLADE: Kiss your ass goodbye, Reinhardt.
SCUD: You're wasting your time, Blade. The flechette's a dud.
REINHARDT: Thought you had me on a short leash, didn't you, chief? Only it turns out, you're the one that's been on the leash.
SCUD: See, I'm one of Damaskinos' familiars.
WHISTLER: You little shit. When did they get to Back when Blade had me hunting down your puckered old ass. What's up with your hair, anyway? Fucking Willie Nelson
SCUD: Back when Blade had me hunting down your puckered old ass. What's up with your hair, anyway? Fucking Willie Nelson
BLADE: ( weak, but defiant ) Two things. One, I was on to you the moment they turned you. And two ( raising the detonator; I switched that dud of yours back with the real one.
REINHARDT: Son of a bitch!
DAMASKINOS: Reinhardt hesitates. Nyssa takes a step towards Blade, but Damaskinos stops her. Damaskinos gestures to his guards. They haul Blade up and drag him from the lab. Reinhardt gestures to Whistler.
REINHARDT: What about him, then? Me and Hobo Kelly here have a little unfinished business.
CLOSE ON: Blade's sword pommel as the booby-trap blades in the handle spring out.
ON WHISTLER: Sitting in the corner, his hands cuffed behind his back. We are in a security station filled with surveillance monitors offering various views of the laboratory complex.
WHISTLER: Not nearly enough, Fritz.
REINHARDT: Keep talking, warmblood.
WHISTLER: Been dead before. Didn't much cotton to it. Tell you what, chicken shit. You do your worst. We'll settle up after.
DAMASKINOS: ( vampire dialect; subtitled ) My child
NYSSA: Nomak said something to Blade in Greek. Athelfiki singenia ex amato. Where did he learn that?
DAMASKINOS: From his father, of course.
NYSSA: ( horrified ) You experimented on your own, son?
DAMASKINOS: I have fathered thousands of children in centuries since I first walked this earth. Make no mistake, Nyssa. Those blood-ties mean nothing to me when measured against the ascendancy of our race. Nothing. If you have any interest in remaining alive, you would do well to remember
DAMASKINOS: With every century, humans become more repulsive to me. Once, you were souls to be taken, corrupted. But you have disgraced yourselves to being nothing more than blood and meat.
STEVENS: We're going to harvest you, Blade. Bone marrow, organs, everything. Your tissue's too valuable to let go to Nomak is still out there.
BLADE: ( weakly ) Nomak is still out there.
DAMASKINOS: True, but thanks to you, we know his weakness. We can keep him contained. It's just a matter of time before we hunt him down.
BLADE: Too bad you're out of it.
DAMASKINOS: And why is that?
BLADE: Revenge. That's what Nomak wanted all along. To pay back the people who created him.
STEVENS: You may be right. Fortunately for us, he has no idea where this facility is
BLADE: He does now. He's been watching me since the tunnels. Following me. I led him right to you.
NOMAK: ( roaring )
FATHER!: Damaskinos' eyes widen in terror as he stumbles backwards, activating an ALARM. He looks to the guards, SCREAMING.
DAMASKINOS: Stop him!
REINHARDT: Behind him, we see Whistler taking advantage of the distraction. He folds his legs up under him, working his cuffed hands over his feet. When Reinhardt spins back away from the security monitors Whistler is GONE. A steel grating in the floor lies half open. The obvious means of exit.
DAMASKINOS: Get out of the way.
WHISTLER: Come on, Blade. Talk to me!
BLADE: ( weakly )
ON STEVENS: panicked, turning towards the open elevator cab where
DAMASKINOS: is waiting. But even as Stevens starts towards the elevator, Damaskinos dispassionately presses the "CLOSE DOOR" button.
STEVENS: What are you doing?!!
REINHARDT: Stop him!!!
WHISTLER: ON BLADE gripping the guard rail for support, dragging himself along. Reinhardt fires. A SHOTGUN BLAST hits Blade, grazing him but otherwise missing him. As Reinhardt curses and prepares to fire again Blade makes it to the end of the catwalk, pitching himself out into open space. Time slows to a crawl as Blade tumbles downward, plummeting into
GO!!!: ON BLADE gripping the guard rail for support, dragging himself along. Reinhardt fires. A SHOTGUN BLAST hits Blade, grazing him but otherwise missing him. As Reinhardt curses and prepares to fire again Blade makes it to the end of the catwalk, pitching himself out into open space. Time slows to a crawl as Blade tumbles downward, plummeting into
ON BLADE: gripping the guard rail for support, dragging himself along. Reinhardt fires. A SHOTGUN BLAST hits Blade, grazing him but otherwise missing him. As Reinhardt curses and prepares to fire again Blade makes it to the end of the catwalk, pitching himself out into open space. Time slows to a crawl as Blade tumbles downward, plummeting into
BLADE: surfaces from the cask in morbidly glorious slow-motion. Think of Sheen in the end-sequence of Apocalypse Now, only instead of a river of mud, Blade is covered head-to-toe in crimson. Majestic and glistening. A primordial god. He rears back his head, letting loose a triumphal ROAR. Reinhardt's men hesitate. One look at Blade's eyes and we can see he's tapped into a well-spring of fury even he never knew he had. The man is super-charged and ready for war. Blade tears into the vampires, unleashing a blizzard of martial arts moves. He powers a right hook into the first vampire's face, then pivots, launching a devastating spinning back-fist into the face of a second. At the same time, he rips the second guard's security belt from his waist, twirling it around nanchadku-style to blind a third guard and capture the wrist of a fourth. Some vampires FIRE their guns, but Blade is a whirlwind, shifting and dodging. BULLETS go wild, hitting circuitry, EXPLODING APART cannisters of combustible chemicals. In seconds, FLAMES are licking across the laboratory floor. Blade drops, causing a pair of vampires to FIRE their guns at one another. Then Blade knocks two more vampires onto their asses with a foot sweep. Then he's up again. Slamming the bridge of a fifth vampire's nose into his brain with a palm heel strike. A snap kick, an overhand elbow strike, a knee stamp that shatter's the vampire's knee cap. An upward block, a jab, a cross, a shin kick aimed at a vamp's quadriceps. Overhand punches, rising punches, parallel punches, spinning rear elbows, deep kicks, on and on and on and on in an orgy of super-hero violence until WHAM! Blade cuts the last of the vampire soldiers down, turning from the creature's disintegrating body to face
REINHARDT: The vampire mercenary clutches Blade's sword in his hand, but the weapon provides him with little sense of security given that he's just seen a dozen of his men slaughtered. The automatic sprinkler system is on now, spraying water down upon Blade and Reinhardt alike. Blade advances. Reinhardt's been cornered. There's nowhere else for him to run. Refusing to be cowed, Reinhardt SCREAMS and brings the sword down at Blade's head when WHOOSH But Blade swings his hands upward, slapping them on either side of the blade, trapping the sword on its downward arc. Reinhardt strains, trying to tear the sword away from Blade's grip. The vampire's eyes widen in fear. And during that split-second in which the two men are frozen, connected by the weapon which vibrates between them, Blade says:
BLADE: Tell me something, chief. Can you
DAMASKINOS: Are you insane? He'll kill us both!
NYSSA: Maybe it's better that way.
BLADE: enters the lobby from a mezzanine above, sword in hand.
DAMASKINOS: ( vampire dialect; subtitled ) For God's sake, Nyssa! Let us out of
NOMAK: bursts into the lobby, ROARING. If anything, he is even more animalistic now, his features having become grossly Damaskinos scurries backwards, but there's nowhere left to run. Nomak descends on him, lifting the vampire into a rib crushing embrace, chomping his elongated canines into Damaskinos' throat. Damaskinos SQUEALS like a child as his life-blood is sucked out of him. His body begins to cave inward, shrinking and twisting until there's nothing left but shriveled husk. Nyssa hefts the rail-gun and FIRES at Nomak's back. Nomak HOWLS, releasing Damaskinos' body, then turns, focusing his blood-drunk gaze on Nomak.
NOMAK: ( in vampire dialect ) Why are you frightened, father? The prodigal son has returned.
BLADE: ( alarmed ) Get out of here!
ON BLADE: as he leaps from the mezzanine level, sword extended, like Beowulf diving to slay Grendel. He PLUNGES the sword deep into Nomak's upper torso. Then DRIVES it in even further Nomak releases Nyssa and back-hands Blade across the face, sending him sailing through the air. He lands, skids across the floor
ON NOMAK: stumbling backwards into the wall. The sword has sunk so deep that the tip is actually protruding out his back, SCRAPING a gash across the wall as Nomak slides towards the Nomak GRUNTS, then reaches for the pomeel with his ruined hand. He grips the pommel and SNAPS the sword-blade in half. Then he SLAMS against the wall, forcing the half of the broken blade that's still embedded in him out back through the front of his chest. As Nomak rises to his feet Blade is on him again, snap-kicking the Reaper in the chest. Nomak retaliates. Blade somersaults out of the way, then springs back again, KICKING Nomak in the face, BREAKING Nomak's NECK. Nomak's head lolls unnaturally sideways for a heartbeat and then Nomak swings his head around, somehow righting his neck vertebrae with a snap of his head. They trade blows, a brutal death-match that seems to defy gravity. Blade moves in for a round-house punch, but Nomak catches his fist, holding it for a split-second, then bending Blade's hand at an unnatural angle, SNAPPING his wrist bones. The pain is enormous. Nomak starts beating the living shit out of Blade, pummeling him with his fists, gripped by an uncontrollable rage. He SMASHES Blade against a marble column, cracking it. Then he flings Blade against one of the brushed steel walls - so hard that Blade's body actually leaves an indentation. Before Blade can recover, Nomak is in front of him, launching another kick. Blade rolls his head out of the way, barely avoiding Nomak's boot heel which dents the wall. Nomak kicks a second time. Blade avoids Nomak, but third time's the charm and Nomak lands one squarely in Blade's gut. Blade falls beneath a flurry of blows, unable to defend himself any longer. Blood stains his eyes, obscuring his vision. He strikes out blindly, but Nomak has forced him to the ground, pinning him there. As Blade struggles to free lowers his head towards Blade's face. The scar/seam in Nomak's chin splits open and Nomak's lower jaw flares apart, distending and widening to reveal the awful, glistening hell maw the hollow inner fangs and striated cartilage which are closing about Blade's face. Blade twists his head violently to the right, then glimpses the broken tip of his sword resting a few feet away. He reaches for it in desperation, plunging it up into Nomak's chest. Nomak HOWLS. Because the hilt has been broken off, Blade is forced to grip the cutting edge of the weapon with his bare hands. It slices into his fingers but Blade just grips the broken sword tighter, ignoring the pain, driving it deeper and deeper until, suddenly, it penetrates the cartilaginous shell around Nomak's heart and
NOMAK: lowers his head towards Blade's face. The scar/seam in Nomak's chin splits open and Nomak's lower jaw flares apart, distending and widening to reveal the awful, glistening hell maw the hollow inner fangs and striated cartilage which are closing about Blade's face. Blade twists his head violently to the right, then glimpses the broken tip of his sword resting a few feet away. He reaches for it in desperation, plunging it up into Nomak's chest. Nomak HOWLS. Because the hilt has been broken off, Blade is forced to grip the cutting edge of the weapon with his bare hands. It slices into his fingers but Blade just grips the broken sword tighter, ignoring the pain, driving it deeper and deeper until, suddenly, it penetrates the cartilaginous shell around Nomak's heart and
NOMAK: ( in vampire dialect ) Blood brother.
NYSSA: How does it look?
BLADE: ( with genuine sadness ) Not good.
NYSSA: It won't be long now. I can already feel it burning inside me
BLADE: What do you want me to do?
NYSSA: I want to see the sun rise.
ON BLADE: his face a mask of sad resignation. He lifts Nyssa into his arms. She closes her eyes, resting her head on his chest.
THE HORIZON: where the faintest glimmer of pre-dawn light brightens the cloud-swept sky. It's peaceful. We can hear the SURF crashing on the shore below. Together they wait. A GLIMMER OF LIGHT emerges over the earth's curvature, spreading its dazzling radiance out across the skyline. Nyssa's eyes widen in expectation, her breath catching. She looks up at Blade, stroking his face, smiling.
NYSSA: Each day is a little life. Remember?
RUSH: yelling for your tender touch, you can never get enough
RUSH: Voulez-vous coucher avec moi, ce soir! Voulez-vous coucher AVEC MOI!!!
BLADE: Who flashes an evil smile at us.
BLADE: What? You think I forgot about you?
