FOUR FIGURES: disembark, their bodies covered in desert camo-gear. They wear helmets with polarized face-plates and are armed to the teeth. To the sheepherder they might as well be aliens. One of the figures turns to the East. We can see the rising sun reflected in the face-plate of his helmet and a hint of a skull-like under-mask/respirator beneath the face-plate. He raises a gloved hand, gives the "finger" to the new day. Another figure ( a woman ) waves a hand, urging them onward. They mount the central steps of the ziggurat.
MALE FIGURE: That's great. We've got dick. Is there any reason we had to embark on this cluster-fuck during the day? The woman removes her helmet. This is DANICA TALOS. A vampire. Intense, appearing to be in her 30s. Possessing a regal air. She wears a silver crucifix around her neck.
DANICA: Night-time's too tricky, Grimwood. You know that. One by one, the others remove their helmets. All vampires: GRIMWOOD ( 30s ), a hulking vampire with an imposing physique and an even more imposing set of surgical steel teeth/fangs. ASHER ( 4Os ), a natural-born leader with easygoing charisma. WOLFE ( 30s ), quiet and deliberative. Right now he's readying a portable ground-penetrating radar unit. Grimwood studies the writing on the walls.
GRIMWOOD: What is this chicken-scratch?
DANICA: Cuneiform. Dates back about four thousand years.
GRIMWOOD: So why here?
DANICA: Because this was the cradle of civilization. He would've been comfortable here.
ASHER: I don't know, Dan. Seems like another I'm not so sure Wolfe looks at his unit, excited. The others gather round.
WOLFE: I'm not so sure Wolfe looks at his unit, excited. The others gather round.
WOLFE: There's something beneath us.
ASHER: Is that a body ? Wolfe makes a few adjustments on the unit. The image resolves further. It's definitely a BODY. Then, we hear the low RUMBLING of more hidden counter-weights and
GRIMWOOD: What the fuck ?! Grimwood pounds his fist against the stone. It's solid. He tries to find a hand-hold, tries to shoulder it open in some way, but the barrier is unmovable. They're trapped.
ASHER: Radio back-up. See if they can open it from the other
DANICA: What's he been doing?
ASHER: Nothing. Just sitting there since we brought him here.
HENDRIX: ( nervously ) Do you think we've got enough security?
DANICA: Hendrix, if he wanted to out of there - there isn't an army in the world that could keep us safe. We didn't capture him. He allowed us to take him in. You Now open up. The others look at her like she's insane. Nevertheless, Danica places her hand on the biometric scanner. Hendrix keys in a series of commands on a nearby computer console. The vault doors open with a HUM, allowing Danica into
DANICA: Your people need you, Sire. She kneels, bowing her head.
VOICE: What makes you think I wanted to be brought back? A hand emerges from the darkness, armored. Danica wants to bolt. Instead, she fights to keep herself from flinching as a taloned finger brushes her throat.
DANICA: Times have changed. Science has made great strides. Your blood, the sacrament you provide it can set us free now.
VOICE: I see. And the one I killed earlier? He was vampire? You must forgive me. It had been centuries since I last fed.
DANICA: I understand.
VOICE: Then offer yourself to me, child and let me quench my thirst again.
ASKER: Danica! Are you alright ?! She nods, shaking, struggling to recompose herself.
DANICA: Let him out he wants to see what's become of his world.
LARRY: Tonight, Dr. Edgar Vance, forensic psychiatrist and author of the New York Times best seller "Human Health: The Whole Being Breakthrough". Also with us is Martin Vreede, Chief of Police. They're here for an hour and they'll take your calls. Next on Larry King Live.
LARRY: Dr. Vance you're a psychiatrist and a biochemist, isn't that right?
VANCE: Yes. I've long believed that in order to achieve true health, we have to reconcile the body and the mind. Of course that also requires letting go of a lot of our old notions and superstitions, which is what my work is all about.
LARRY: Let's talk about that. How do you account for the fascination with things that go bump in the night? Movies, books, videogames seems like we can't get enough of our boogeymen? Vance leans forward, skillfully playing to the cameras.
VANCE: Monsters provide a means for us to transfer our more primal and darker urges into something external. In the case of vampires, you're dealing with taboo issues like predatory rage and sexual sadism. These are scary subjects for people to own up to.
LARRY: So we pass the buck to someone else?
VANCE: Exactly. Historically, people suffering from medical conditions have always been our psychological scapegoats. In the Middle Ages schizophrenia was often attributed to demonic possession.
LARRY: And vampires?
VANCE: Well, there's a hereditary blood disease known as porphyria that has symptoms remarkably similar to the classic vampiric traits. People suffering from this disease are anemic, they become sensitive to sunlight, they can't tolerate garlic
LARRY: Which is too bad, since my doctor tells me that's good for the heart. Chief Vreede? What's your take on all the recent rumors we've been hearing about The only vampires I'm worried about are the ones passing the bar exam. Seriously, if vampires existed, don't you think we'd be on to them by now? The truth is, our streets have never been safer. Homicides, assaults violent crime is down across the board. If people want to be concerned, they should focus on criminals like Blade.
VREEDE: The only vampires I'm worried about are the ones passing the bar exam. Seriously, if vampires existed, don't you think we'd be on to them by now? The truth is, our streets have never been safer. Homicides, assaults violent crime is down across the board. If people want to be concerned, they should focus on criminals like Blade.
LARRY: Now who's this? Tell me about him.
VREEDE: He's a sociopath we've been pursuing.
VANCE: Blade is a very disturbed individual. Even the name he's chosen for himself is troubling. According to witnesses, he operates under the belief that a vast conspiracy of vampires live amongst us. You have to look at the psychiatric underpinnings here. What does a person like Blade really want? Odds are, he's really trying to work out some kind of inner trauma. He thinks he's slaying monsters, but he's really trying to murder aspects of himself. The sound of GUNFIRE pre-laps over from the next scene as we
CLOSER: as a FORMIDABLE FIGURE resolves out of the swirling flames. It's Blade, striding towards us in slow-motion, body bristling with weapons, the exaggerated sounds of his FOOTFALLS ringing out like drums of doom. He looks like the God of War. WHOOSH! We ramp back up to real-time. Then faster as a TRIO OF VAMPIRE LOW-LIFES ( STONE, GEDGE, and CAMPBELL ) run for their lives towards their vehicles. TWO MODIFIED STREET RACING CARS are pulling out; a Mustang and an Eagle Talon. Gedge is climbing into the Talon even as it starts to move, pulling the door shut. At the same time Stone and Campbell climb atop two stretched and lowered hardtail chopper cycles. Blade starts forward, drawing two of his custom MACH pistols, but the Mustang comes SCREAMING IN REVERSE TOWARDS him! Blade makes a SUPER-HUMAN LEAP over the speeding car. Momentarily upside down, he FIRES through the windshield and engine block as he flips. Within the car, the vampires ASH. The Mustang EXPLODES. flipping over and Blade, now facing frontward again, continues to FIRE as he lands, aiming at
BLADE: Whistler! I'm on the Stonebridge overpass at Clemons
WHISTLER'S VOICE: Got it! Heading eastbound, I'm just beneath you Blade dodges past a HONKING car, stepping onto and over the trunk, then leaps atop the safety rail of the overpass as
WHISTLER'S VOICE: EXT. BUSY STREET - NIGHT Blade LAUNCHES HIMSELF into the air. He lands atop the semi, then tumbles, nearly slipping off the edge as he snags one of the safety cables atop the trailer! He dangles above the asphalt then SWINGS himself into the open back of the trailer. We HOLD for a beat, then hear the THUNDERCLAP of a high-performance ENGINE turning over as
GO!!!: EXT. BUSY STREET - NIGHT Blade LAUNCHES HIMSELF into the air. He lands atop the semi, then tumbles, nearly slipping off the edge as he snags one of the safety cables atop the trailer! He dangles above the asphalt then SWINGS himself into the open back of the trailer. We HOLD for a beat, then hear the THUNDERCLAP of a high-performance ENGINE turning over as
OLD WOMAN: I hope that wasn't a dog.
BLADE'S CHARGER: pulls up. Blade climbs out, shotgun in hand. The shotgun has an under-mounted stake launcher. Blade FIRES at Gedge. The stake hits him in the back. KNOCKING him onto the street. Bystanders SCREAM, falling back, taking cover Blade approaches, puzzled. Gedge is still alive, LAUGHING. He looks at Blade, eyes crazed, flashing his fangs.
BLADE: Staked you with silver. Why aren't you Gedge coughs blood, struggles to speak:
GEDGE: Why aren't you smarter? Not a vampire, dumbshit set your sorry ass up Gedge tugs at his fangs. They're fake, PROSTHETIC. Gedge is looking past Blade. Blade turns, looking up
BLADE: How should I know? He was human. Whistler reaches for a bottle of whiskey, takes a sip.
WHISTLER: You've been getting careless, Blade. You kill a vampire, they ash, don't leave any proof of their existence. But something like this, a human corpse, it's messy you better hope nobody IDed you.
WOMAN'S VOICE: It was horrible. The one car crashed, and then the guy in the coat was shooting the other guy
REPORTER: ( on-screen ) That was just a taste of the mayhem that occurred during tonight's brazen shoot-out that left at least four people dead. Now apparently an anonymous citizen captured the whole event on video
CUMBERLAND: Book us a flight, Hale. Time to take these cowboys down.
WHISTLER: I'll take this too.
FBI AGENT: Subject is heading West. WHIP-PAN to a parked CAR, Cumberland and Hale seated within.
CUMBERLAND: Got him. Cumberland starts the car, starts following Whistler.
WHISTLER: Somebody screwed us. Your face is all over the papers, the television. Media's eating it up.
BLADE: Like I care?
WHISTLER: You should. Something like this taking out a human, even one working for the vampires far as the rest of the world's concerned, you're public enemy number one.
BLADE: Didn't realize this was a popularity Whistler shakes his head, frustrated.
WHISTLER: Damnit, Blade, don't you see what's happening?! The fuckers are finally getting smart. They're waging a goddamn PR campaign. Now it's not just vampires we have to worry about, we're gonna have to take on the rest of the world too. They've got us on the run. These last few months we've barely been staying ahead of the curve.
BLADE: You worry too much, old man.
WHISTLER: I've been doing this since before you were born, Blade. The moment you stop worrying, you're dead. Then Whistler's face softens for a moment.
WHISTLER: Since the day I found you, you've been like a son to me. I taught you everything I know. But I'm tired. You understand?
DINGO: C'mon, just pick one.
PROOF: Once you buy a prize, it's yours and yours to keep. They keep looking. Then, Flick suddenly points, excited
FLICK: Got it, got it! Baby on board!
DINGO: Looks like we got ourselves a combo meal.
DINGO: Hey, pretty lady.
PROOF: Sophisticated mama. Dingo and Proof reveal their fangs. Abigail SCREAMS, runs right into the arms of Flick and Squid! They grab her, RIPPING the BabyBjorn carrier from her chest, SHOVING her back at Dingo and Proof. In seconds, Dingo and Proof have Abigail on the floor. They're tearing away at her clothing, LAUGHING.
DINGO: Scream if this hurts, chica!
ON FLICK,: removing the BABY from its carrier. He holds the baby up - only it's not a baby. It's a DOLL with the words "FUCK YOU!" written on its chest. Flick is briefly confused and then the baby doll EXPLODES, covering Flick's face with a cloud of GARLIC GAS! Flick recoils, retching, wiping at his burning face
FLICK: aghhk it's fucking garlic!
ABIGAIL: jumps to her feet, shedding her coat and hat. Long tresses of hair spill around her shoulders. She's not mousy at all. In fact, she's beautiful. And cut like an Olympic athlete. And equipped with a walking arsenal of weapons. Dingo SNARLS CRUNCH! Abigail plants her heel in his face, SMASHING IN his nose. She does a cartwheel, KICKS him again. Follows that with flurry of PUNCHES. He goes down as Flick and Squid come charging! Squid gets her in a CHOKE HOLD. She FLIPS him over her shoulder, KICKING him in the nuts as he lands. He curls up, GROANING Abigail turns back to Flick, ELBOWING him in the throat then returns to Squid, ejecting a SILVER THROWING KNIFE from a spring-loaded, automated dispenser strapped to her wrist. She POPs the knife through Squid's chest. He ASHES
FOLLOWING ABIGAIL: as she reaches behind her, removing a CRESCENT-SHAPED DEVICE secured to her back. She holds the crescent in the center, the curve pointing away from her, gives it a twist and CHINKT! The device extends from either end, telescoping outward into a three-foot long metal arc. Connecting the two ends of the arc is a powerful, BUZZING UV LASER. Abigail LASHES OUT, lopping off Flick's arm. His arm falls, ASHING. Abigail swings the arc around, pushing it forward through Flick's mid-section like a cheese cutter Flick literally falls apart, his upper torso sliding from his trunk, ASHING in the foreground, his burning particles falling away to reveal Abigail in the background Dingo scrambles to his feet, running for his life. Abigail gives her UV arc a twist. It retracts. She secures it behind her back once again, unholsters a strange-looking "bloop" GUN with a large barrel. She FIRES A rapidly-expanding spherule of ANTI-PERSONNEL FOAM splatters against Dingo's legs, hardening instantly, tripping him up Dingo goes down again. He panics, trying to scrape the gunk off his legs, manages to get one of his hands stuck to the hardening mess in the process like a mouse in a glue-trap. Abigail calmly approaches. She stands over Dingo, staring down at him with a look of cruel indifference. She holsters her bloop gun, withdraws another SILVER STAKE
ABIGAIL: Scream if this hurts, chica. and SLAMS the stake into his chest.
WIDEN OUT: Abigail turns, surveying her work. The ashen remains of the vampires are popping and crackling like campfire embers. In thirty-seven seconds she's managed to eliminate them all. A train approaches, pulls into the station. PASSENGERS disembark, flood the platform. They tramp all over the ashes of the vampires, completely unaware of the recent slaughter. Abigail walks against the stream of traffic, boards the train. She is the sole passenger as the train pulls away.
WHISTLER: standing in the shadows, clutching a handgun.
WHISTLER: What is it?
BLADE: What you've been worrying about. They listen. Just the sound of the ocean swell. Then
AGENT: On the floor! ON THE FLOOR! Whistler FIRES at them, then makes a run for it. The agents RETURN FIRE, but Whistler ducks behind a concrete pillar
CUMBERLAND: Lock it down! Keep them contained! On the rooftops above, various SWAT SNIPERS take position.
ON WHISTLER: as he moves with increased urgency. The armory is filling up with tear gas. Coughing and half-blind, he hurries to a bank of computers, types in a series of commands
CUMBERLAN D: What's going on in there?
AGENT'S VOICE: ( over radio ) Some kind of self-destruct program! They're fragging their hard drives!
BLADE: Whistler staggers, keeps moving. He makes it to another bank of computers, launches the same protocol.
WHISTLER!: Whistler staggers, keeps moving. He makes it to another bank of computers, launches the same protocol.
ON BLADE,: in anguish as he sees his mentor being slaughtered. Then two agents are RUSHING HIM, tackling Blade. As one they fall backwards, into another bank of windows
CUMBERLAND: Take him down! An FBI AGENT raises a CODA net gun atop his shoulder, taking aim. BA-BANG! Four projectiles expand out from the barrel, carrying a STEEL NET which has been strung between them. The netting hits Blade, wrapping around him, restricting his movements. Immediately, a small army of agents DIVE on top of him, PUMMELING AWAY, trying to beat him into submission
AGENT: Move a finger and you're dead.
WHISTLER: ( flipping them off ) How 'bout this one?
AGENT #2: He's got something in his 00:03. 00:02. 00:01. The timer reaches zero.
BLADE: but the wall of FIRE and LIGHT is rushing onward, sweeping up everything in its path, turning the world to white.
WHISTLER!!!: but the wall of FIRE and LIGHT is rushing onward, sweeping up everything in its path, turning the world to white.
BLADE: Who ?
CUMBERLAND: Special Agents Ray Cumberland and Wilson Hale, FBI. We've been tracking you for a long time.
BLADE: Dead. Just like all of your victims. Blade shuts his eyes as if he could just wish them away.
HALE: Dead. Just like all of your victims. Blade shuts his eyes as if he could just wish them away.
CUMBERLAND: How many people have you killed? Thirty? Forty? A hundred?
BLADE: Those were familiars people who worked for them
CUMBERLAND: And by "them" you mean vampires, right? I suppose next you'll be telling us that Bigfoot's in on the conspiracy too? So what kills these bloodsu~kers, tough guy? Maybe you can give us some pointers. You can stake 'em, right? Then there's sunlight what about crosses, Wilson? Do those still work?
HALE: I don't know, Ray. What if a vampire's That's a good point. And does garlic work on a Hindu vampire? Or do you need saffron or something? Hale laughs. Cumberland shakes his head, his smile fading.
CUMBERLAND: That's a good point. And does garlic work on a Hindu vampire? Or do you need saffron or something? Hale laughs. Cumberland shakes his head, his smile fading.
CUMBERLAND: You can keep doing your song and dance as long as you want, Blade, but it's not going to play. You're a stone-cold killer. And you're sick as fuck.
VANCE: Hello, Blade. My name is Doctor Vance. I'm with the Department of Mental Health. I've been charged with conducting a psychiatric evaluation of you. Gentleman, would you mind giving us a few moments alone? Cumberland nods. They rise, exiting the room. Vance smiles, trying to project a sympathetic air.
VANCE: I imagine this must be very frightening for you. But I want you to know that I'm here to help. In order to do that, however, I need to ask you some questions. Now. Can you tell me what day it is? Blade just stares daggers at Vance.
VANCE: What about the President? Do you know who's in the White House at the moment?
BLADE: An ass-hole.
VANCE: ( sighing ) Alright then, let's talk about vampires what can you tell me about that?
BLADE: There's nothing to tell. They exist.
VANCE: And are you one of them?
VANCE: What about blood? When you drink it, do you find yourself sexually aroused? Blade just glares at Vance.
VANCE: You see, it strikes me that this business of vampirism has strong connotations of sexual confusion. Bodily fluids being exchanged, that sort of thing. You have to ask where that comes from. I'm wondering, for instance, what your relationship was like with your mother. Were the two of you close? Blade glares. If he escapes, he's going to kill this guy.
VREEDE: What's your assessment, Doctor?
VANCE: He's psychotic, with paranoid features, possessing dangerous levels of sociopathy. He's exhibiting disorganized behavior. He obviously doesn't have a properly formed For his safety and the public's, I'm recommending that he be transferred to County Psychiatric for further treatment.
CUMBERLAND: That's unacceptable. This man's wanted in connection with a laundry list of federal crimes. I need him on a plane to the Detention Center in Washington tonight.
VANCE: Agent Cumberland, that man is in no condition to undergo prosecution. Cumberland and Hale look to Vreede with disbelief.
HALE: Chief, we've got a federal arrest warrant here that clearly supersedes
VREEDE: I don't care about your warrant. We're in my jurisdiction now. You've got an issue with that, you take it up with the local Dr. Vance shrugs as if to say he's sorry.
VANCE: I'm sorry, gentlemen, but the call has already been made. A team from the hospital should be here momentarily to oversee the transfer.
DANICA: Hi. We're here to transfer a patient to County General?
VANCE: ( speaking softly now ) Just a little something to keep you compliant. The normal dose is two, maybe three hundred milligrams. But for a strapping young hybrid like yourself
VANCE: I think we'll kick it up to a couple
VANCE: There. That wasn't so bad, was it? You're weak, aren't you? In need of your serum. Who would've guessed a mere human like myself could overpower you?
BLADE: ( realizing ) You're with them a familiar
VANCE: Going on five years now. Vance extends his arm, pulling back his shirt cuff a little to reveal a VAMPIRE GLYPH tattooed on the underside of his wrist. Then he pulls his cuff back down, smiles at Blade.
VANCE: It's the end-game, Blade. All their plans are finally coming to fruition. So just sit back and enjoy the show. Blade looks to the one-way mirror, SCREAMS.
BLADE: He's one of them! Damnit, he's working for them! Vance looks to the one-way mirror as well and shrugs as if to say "The man's deranged. What can I do?"
CUMBERLAND: Just hold it right there Danica shoves Cumberland aside, hard, keeps moving past him. Cumberland looks to Hale. Something isn't right about this.
BLADE'S POV: His vision is blurring, various objects in the room leaving trails as he shifts his head from side to side and
DANICA: Easy, lover. You're not going anywhere. She draws closer, enjoying herself.
DANICA: We moved the humans around like, pawns, Blade. Used them to flush you out. Blade tries to LUNGE from his chair at her and WHACK! Grimwood punches Blade across the jaw. A brutal blow.
GRIMWOOD: Don't worry, Captain Sunshine. Soon as we get you out of here, you'll get a chance to play. Danica motions to the two vampire orderlies. They step forward with the straight-jacket, start to put it on Blade. Blade THRASHES madly. Asher LAUGHS, enjoying this.
DANICA: Don't make this any harder than it has to be. You're all alone, Blade. No one can help you now. BA-BOOM! The one-way mirror SHATTERS, exploding outward in a shower of SLOW-MOTION GLASS FRAGMENTS, carrying with it a BODY, one of the vampire mental health flunkies ASHING in mid-air as he sails into the room! Seconds later
A MAN: VAULTS through the blown-out window, simultaneously drawing two high-tech electronic pistols. Meet HANNIBAL KING ( 30s ), an audacious vampire hunter with an irrepressible grin. Slapped to his chest is a "Hello, my name is" sticker with the words "FUCK YOU" written where the name should be.
KING: Why'd the Polish vampire starve to death? Danica spins, enraged, recognizing King instantly
KING: He kept biting his own lip.
DANICA: The lights go out. Immediately, backup lights come on, followed by FIRE ALARMS. In the ensuing confusion ~ both pistols at Asher, who drops, allowing one of the vampire orderlies behind him to take the hit.
ON BLADE: He shifts his weight, throwing himself and the chair he's sitting on to the floor. Then he KICKS OUT AND UP connecting with Grimwood's mid-section, sending him FLYING BACKWARDS straight through the wall into the next room! King holsters one of his pistols and hauls Blade up. At the same time, he FIRES on Asher again, missing him
KING: Let's FLY, kemosabe! King drags Blade to the door
CUMBERLAND: He's getting away! King FIRES into the room behind him, then pulls a GRENADE secured to a bandolier and tosses it through the doorway An EXPLOSION rocks the interrogation room, filling the corridor with smoke, knocking Cumberland and Hale back. King turns his attention to Blade's handcuffs, FIRING between them, freeing Blade's hands. Blade collapses against the wall. He's shaking, close to passing out.
KING: Don't die on me, you undead motherfucker! King drags Blade up. They continue down the corridor to
KING: Whistler! We need that serum NOW! Whistler? Abigail spins, dispatching the last officer with a kick to the mid-section while tossing a PNEUMATIC INJECTOR at King. He snatches it, places it in Blade's hands. Blade injects himself in the neck. Moments later, he's reenergized. He looks to King, clear-eyed.
KING: Hey Blacula, you ready to shake and bake? Blade responds by PUNCHING King across the jaw.
BLADE: Call me that again and I'll give you fucking brain damage. King massages his jaw, tossing Blade a pistol even as Grimwood rounds the corner, hungry for blood, TWO MORE VAMPIRE ORDERLIES behind him. Blade FIRES round after round of EXPLOSIVE BULLETS, causing Grimwood and the others to fall back. Blade and King move, joining Abigail. MORE SMOKE, darkness, only the emergency lights to illuminate the station.
UP AHEAD,: a group of POLICEMEN spill from a stairwell, armed with bullet proof vests. They OPEN FIRE Blade, King, and Abigail retreat into an alcove. They're pinned down between the vampires and a group of policemen.
KING: We're pinned down! Can't you do something?!
BLADE: I can't shoot around corners!
ABIGAIL: I can. As King and Blade lay down COVER FIRE, Abigail reaches behind her, withdrawing a device that's been secured there. She gives it a SNAP and it springs open, taking the shape of a
BLADE: ( as King and Abigail freeze ) My sword. They still have it.
KING: ( apoplectic ) Are you insane?! We're practically home free! We can't go hunting for your fucking butter-knife now!
KING: Hey! HEY!!! COME BACK HERE!!! This is supposed to be a rescue! Abigail grabs King's shoulder, pulling him to the stairs.
ABIGAIL: Forget it, King. Let's move.
CRASH!: A window on the third floor of the station EXPLODES OUTWARD. Blade drops three stories, landing before King and Abigail in a cat-like crouch. With his sword in his hand. He looks at King, grins, flips him off.
BLADE: Now we can go.
KING: ( nudging Abigail ) Is he epic or what?
HEADLIGHTS: are washing over them. A beefed-up, 70s Land Cruiser is SCREAMING up the street. The Cruiser jumps onto the sidewalk, SMASHES right through the gated wall. SCREECHES to a stop between our trio and the police cars.
DEX: My name is Dex. And I'll be saving your ass this evening. Blade, King, and Abigail scramble into the back of the Land Cruiser. Dex reverses, backing out the way he came. The police from the squad cars are FIRING, but the Land Cruiser is armored and the bullets harmlessly SPARK off.
ABIGAIL'S POV: Grimwood is running after them, actually gaining on the Land Cruiser. Chewing up the asphalt like a cheetah.
DEX: We have him. We'll be there soon.
KING: ( to Blade ) So my entrance back there what do you think? Too flashy? Right on the money?
BLADE: Who are you people?
KING: My name's Hannibal King. I'm a hunter, like you. And this little hellion is Abigail Abigail just stares back at Blade, silently appraising him.
KING: That's right, Blade. You're not hearing things. She's Whistler's daughter. You see, Abby, Dex, myself we're all part of Whistler's "contingency plan". King reaches into an inner pocket, pulls out a pack of gum. He selects a stick, offers one to Blade.
KING: EXT. CITY STREETS - NIGHT The Land Cruiser rockets away, disappearing into the night.
BLADE: I thought the vampires murdered Whistler's family.
ABIGAIL: They did. I'm the product of an earlier fling of my Dad's, born out of wedlock. After the murders happened, he kept me hidden. He wanted me safe. Away from all of this but I guess hunting just runs in our As King and Abigail lead Blade towards a stairway, Blade catches sight of
ABIGAIL: When I came of age, I tracked my Dad down, told him I wanted in. Been doing it ever since.
KING: Welcome to the honeycomb hideout.
BLADE: ( looking around ) How do you bankroll this place?
KING: Internet porn. See, we're using cock suckers to pay for the blood-suckers. Joke. Come on, man. This isn't some piddly little hoopty-ass operation, Blade. We take our jobs very seriously.
UP AHEAD,: TWO OTHERS pause in their work as King approaches. Dex falls in behind them. HEDGES ( 20s ) is an engineer, always lost in his own world. SOMMERFIELD ( 30s ) is a frail-looking geneticist. She's also blind, operating her computers via a voice-synthesis program and Braille keyboard.
KING: You met Dex. This is Hedges, Sommerfield King gestures to them in turn. They're all refugees in one way or another, sharing a common guardedness, their lives having been shattered by the vampires.
KING: ( nodding back ) The runt you saw earlier is Sommerfield's daughter, Zoe. We call ourselves the You sound like rejects from a Saturday morning cartoon.
BLADE: You sound like rejects from a Saturday morning cartoon.
KING: We were gonna call ourselves the Super Friends, but that was taken. Abigail rids herself of her weapons bow, arrows, silver stakes and knives. She hands her compound bow to Hedges.
ABIGAIL: Tiller needs adjustment.
HEDGES: I'll run it through the bow press. Blade examines some of the equipment being developed.
BLADE: How many of you are there total?
KING: Enough. We operate in sleeper cells. When one goes down, a new cell activates to pick up the slack. Consider us your Sorry. Never been much of a team player.
BLADE: Sorry. Never been much of a team player.
SOMMERFIELD: I don't think you understand, Blade. Whistler meant for us to help you. When he died, he activated an emergency protocol. All his knowledge She gestures to the computer equipment around her.
SOMMERFIELD: was transferred to our servers here.
BLADE: And what makes you think you know so much about killing vampires? King reaches for his collar, pulling it down to reveal a telltale mass of scar tissue in the shape of a BITE MARK.
KING: Well for starters, I used to be one. Do I pass the audition?
DANICA: I should've ripped his ripped his bleeding heart out when I had the chance! And don't you dare tell me "I told you Asher raises his hands as if to say "no harm, no foul". Danica continues her tantrum, SMASHING a statue apart, SHATTERING a heavy glass tabletop. Finally, she gives it a rest, collapsing into a chair, shoulders sagging.
ASHER: You through remodeling?
DANICA: Blow me.
ASHER: Face it, Dan. We got caught with our pants down. We underestimated the Pants down?! They practically fucking ass-raped us! Grimwood GRUNTS in pain as the arrow is removed. Asher broaches a more serious subject.
GRIMWOOD: Pants down?! They practically fucking ass-raped us! Grimwood GRUNTS in pain as the arrow is removed. Asher broaches a more serious subject.
ASHER: Has he been told yet?
MAN: Yes, I've been told. He places a hand on Danica's shoulder. She tenses.
MAN: Perhaps it's time I entered the fray.
KING: You know the kind of woman that just screams trouble? You see her and every warning bell in your brain starts going off but you still ask for her number? Well that's all I ever hook up with. But this betty blew 'em all away in the shitstorm sweepstakes. King reaches out to a keyboard, calling up a piece of surveillance footage on a nearby monitor. The footage features Asher and Danica and Grimwood. It's been slowed to a near standstill and now advances frame by frame.
KING: Her name's Danica Talos. You met her earlier. The man on her left is Asher, her brother. King types a command. The image ZOOMS IN, tracking Grimwood.
KING: The neanderthal behind them is Jarko King freezes the footage on Danica's grainy, pixelated face.
KING: I picked Danica up in a bar, had a one night stand with her then spent the next five years playing step-and-fetch-it as her little vampire cabana boy. Eventually Abigail found me. Sommerfield here managed to treat me with a cure. Now I kill them. That's called turning a frown upside We need to pool our resources, Blade.
ABIGAIL: We need to pool our resources, Blade.
BLADE: Because He's come back. King tosses a TOMB OF DRACULA comic book over to Blade. Blade glances at the cover, then looks at them, incredulous.
ABIGAIL: Because He's come back. King tosses a TOMB OF DRACULA comic book over to Blade. Blade glances at the cover, then looks at them, incredulous.
BLADE: You gotta be kidding me.
KING: He's real, Blade. Dig beneath all the movies and myths. All the layers of bullshit that've cluttered our culture for the last five hundred years and eventually you'll strike the truth.
BLADE: ( incredulous ) So the movies are true?
KING: ( shaking his head ) The movies are just a comforting fairytale compared to the real deal. There's no happy ending with this guy. Peter Cushing isn't going to run in at the last second and save the day with a cross and some holy water. ( re: the comicbook ) See, good old Brain Stoker, he wrote a nice yarn. But the events he described in 1897 were only a tiny piece of the mosaic. The rea1 Dracula's origin goes back much earlier than that.
BLADE: How early?
ABIGAIL: Try six or seven thousand years. Off Blade's astonished look we
KING: Nobody really knows the specifics of his origin. But we do know this: he was the first of his kind. The patriarch of the hominus nocturna.
KING: He's like the Patient Zero of evil. The original Serpent in the Garden of Eden. And just like the Great White shark, he's never had to evolve. This guy was born perfect. Scour the history books
KING: he up and disappeared. About a century ago the trail went cold. Then we heard a rumor. The vampires were searching for him trying to find the place where he'd retreated. According to our information, they found him in Iraq about six months And he was pissed.
ON DRAKE,: viewed through a long-lens, clad in modern, casual attire, striding in SLOW-MOTION down a PEDESTRIAN-CHOKED sidewalk. Slower. A HEARTBEAT. The pulse of the people. And over this, intruding, the Doppler effect WAILING of an approaching car as it rushes past us in a SCREEN WIPE until we are
DRAKE: In the window you sell vampire Goth Guy looks up, wiping his mouth with a napkin. Doesn't want to engage with Drake at all.
GOTH GUY: Uh, yeah look around, we might have a few things. He and the Goth Vixen have a snicker at Drake's expense. Then she tries to be a little more helpful.
GOTH VIXEN: We've got Dracula lunchboxes. Did you see those? And there're bobbleheads, Pez dispensers. We've got just about even vampire vibrators. As Drake looks around, what he sees matches his ascending rage. Costumes, candles, vampire Christmas ornaments. Posters from different films Nosferatu, Lugosi, Lee then Love at First Bite and The Little Vampire.
GOTH VIXEN: Here, check this out She reaches into a case, pulling out a soft-drink. The label reads: "DRA-COLA" and has a stylized vampire on it.
GOTH VIXEN: "Dracola". Makes you want to cry, doesn't it? Drake just stares at the can. His mind seems to have retreated elsewhere. Back through the ages.
GOTH VIXEN: Was there something special you needed? Drake doesn't respond. A kind of melancholy has settled over him. He's an outsider now. The world has moved on.
BLADE: Why wake up Drake now?
ABIGAIL: That's what we've been trying to figure When I was under the fang there used to be talk about some kind of vampire 'Final Solution'. But I could never figure out why they'd want to destroy their food source. I mean, seems stupid, right? They've always had plans for the human race. Seems likely that whatever they're cooking up, Drake's return is a part of Blade nods, pensive.
KING: When I was under the fang there used to be talk about some kind of vampire 'Final Solution'. But I could never figure out why they'd want to destroy their food source. I mean, seems stupid, right? They've always had plans for the human race. Seems likely that whatever they're cooking up, Drake's return is a part of Blade nods, pensive.
BLADE: Like what?
SOMMERFIELD: A biological weapon. Sommerfield moves to her Braille keyboard, types.
KING: Think about it, Blade. We could wipe them all out in a single move.
BLADE: So what's been holding you back?
SOMMERFIELD: ( sighing ) We've tried it on a number of captive subjects. We've got the disease vector worked out fine it's easily transmittable. But the lethality in vampires is still spotty.
ABIGAIL: Bottom line is, we need a better DNA sample to work with. We need Dracula's blood.
SOMMERFIELD: Vampire DNA is a hodge-podge of different genes, mixed in with all sorts of useless junk DNA. Because Dracula's the progenitor of the vampire race, his DNA is still pure. It hasn't been diluted by a hundred generations of selective mutation. It still has all the necessary cellular compounds for the virus to code to. We get his blood, we can boost Daystar's viral efficacy to a hundred percent.
KING: So. You want to join our club? Can we sign you up for a Nightstalkers secret decoder ring?
DRAKE: sits in a chair, his body partially illuminated by one of the sunlight shafts, his face turned upward into its brilliance. FOOTSTEPS. Drake opens his eyes, SEES Danica hovering in the darkness, just on the edge of a shaft of light.
DRAKE: This world sickens me. The humans have soiled it with their filth.
DANICA: We can raze their cities to the ground. We can bring the old world back. Drake just stares at her, not convinced.
DRAKE: Come closer.
DANICA: ( re: light ) I can't.
DRAKE: And do you know why? Once, all of my kind could brave the day. We were true predators. The world was ours. And then, somewhere along the way, the purity of our bloodline became diluted. Polluted with human DNA.
DANICA: That's impossible
DRAKE: Is it? Drake stands, drawing close to Danica. He grips her wrist
DRAKE: You are bastard children. No longer as pure as you pride yourselves on being. and pulls her hand towards one of the sunlight shafts. To her credit, Danica keeps staring at Drake. She'll be damned if she will give him the satisfaction of seeing her break. Drake pulls her hand closer to the light to the very edge. And the tips of Danica's fingers begin to burn. She winces, clearly in agony and Drake releases her hand. She cradles it against her chest, blinking away tears that have welled up in her eyes.
DRAKE: My people. How far you have fallen. Drake reaches out, brushes a tear from Danica's cheek, then turns and walks away through the alternating shafts of sunlight and darkness.
HEDGES: We've got a wide assortment of ass- kickery for your viewing pleasure Electronic pistol. Comes with a built-in fingerprint security system. Fires a three-shot burst in 1/500th of a second. Bullets can also be triggered remotely. King tosses Blade a bullet. He studies it it's more complex than a standard round.
BLADE: Explosive rounds?
KING: But with a concentrated burst of UV light instead of your standard hollow-points. I call 'em sun dogs. Hedges super-size me, baby! Hedges tosses King one of the four-barreled firearms. On the stock is an irreverent decal of the mud-flap girl silhouette.
KING: This little mamacita a modified version of the Army's Objective Individual Combat Weapon. Pick your poison stakes, sun dogs, heat-seeking mini-rockets. Whatever gets you hard, this puppy will pump out. Of course it doesn't have the range of a sword but Next, Hedges shows Blade the CRESCENT-SHAPED DEVICE that Abigail used. He gives the device a twist and
HEDGES: We call this the UV arc CHINKT! The device extends from either end, telescoping outward. Connecting the tips is a concentrated UV LASER.
HEDGES: You hold the arc in the center, curved away from you. Connecting the tips is a powerful UV laser beam. Because of its high focus, the laser cuts through vampire flesh like a knife through butter.
KING: We're still trying to sort out fact from fiction when it comes to Dracula. Turning into mist? Kinda doubt it. But general shape-shifting? Maybe.
HEDGES: ( off Blade's look ) Not into a bat or a wolf or anything like that. But another human, someone with the same approximate body mass given enough practice it might be possible.
BLADE: He wouldn't have a traditional skeletal structure. Probably something more like a snake, with thousands of tiny bones in the place of a normal array. Commensurate with this would be an exquisite control of electrical potential across his tissues, resulting in an ability to effectively change shape at will
HEDGES: He wouldn't have a traditional skeletal structure. Probably something more like a snake, with thousands of tiny bones in the place of a normal array. Commensurate with this would be an exquisite control of electrical potential across his tissues, resulting in an ability to effectively change shape at will
KING: ( raising his hand ) Question. Have you ever been laid,
BLADE: Time to apply some pressure. The weak link in the vampire chain of command has always been their familiars. Vampires can't go out in the day, so they get humans to do their dirty work for them Blood-running, safe house maintenance, We bleed the wanna-be vampires, they'll lead us to the real thing. Blade starts the ENGINE.
KING: She's making playlists. Likes to listen to MP3s when she hunts. Her own internal soundtrack, you know? Dark-core, trip hop, whatever kids these days are listening to. Me? I'm more of a Kenny G Finished, Abigail slips her earbuds into her ears, turns on her portable MP3 player. MUSIC CUE. The smoking bassline of Jurassic 5's 'A Day At The Races' kicks in as
BLADE: Want another spin, ass-hole? Eventually, your head's gonna pop off.
HOOP: Shit! Oh Jesus, please, please
BLADE: Who's your handler?
HOOP: I don't know his name, I swear I Blade prepares to drop Hoop again but a CELL PHONE in Hoop's jacket RINGS. Blade fishes it out. The screen reads: EDGAR VANCE, 555-5631.
VANCE: This is Dr. Vance. Did someone page me?
KING: Hey, Blade why didn't the vampire bite Mick Jagger? Cause you can't get blood from a Stone. As Blade walks off
NARRATOR: ( on monitors ) Regain control of your life. Wake to a new dawn. At the Vance Institute for Whole Being we believe in an integrated approach to human health.
VANCE: I'm Dr. Vance. Welcome to our facility. As a member of the medical profession I want to assure you that I will do everything in my power ro provide you with the care and compassion that you deserve. Past the RECEPTION DESK are the elevators with more monitors showing the video greeting. As Blade, King, and Abigail approach, TWO SECURITY GUARDS move to intercept them.
SECURITY GUARD: Excuse me, can I help y CRACK! Blade effortlessly tosses the guards aside, sending them CRASHING into the nearest monitors.
VANCE: What does it mean to be human? Since the dawn of creation our ancestors have asked ourselves that question. They round the corner
VANCE: The modern world today is filled with countless challenges. In every direction we look, toxic stressors are impacting upon our happiness. We think we're healthy, but the truth is, our immune systems are engaged in a life or death struggle to maintain our well being.
EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT: I'm sorry but you can't Abigail KICKS out the man's knee, then slices her hand into his windpipe, silencing him.
VANCE: Now, I'd like to take a moment to exolain how a series of remarkable new breakthroughs can immeasurably improve the quality of your life Blade aims his shotgun at the door leading to Vance's office. He FIRES at the keycard lock, KICKS down the door
VANCE: What ?
BLADE: Payback, Vance. Blade aims his shotgun at Vance's head. Vance just smiles, seemingly unconcerned as Abigail circles around the other side, getting a view behind Vance's desk where
VANCE'S BODY: lies on the floor. His throat has been ripped out. And this body is dressed like a doctor. King puts it together first, reaching for a silver stake even as we hear the sound of POPPING CARTILAGE coming from beneath the Vance double's flesh
KING: Jesus, it's him! It's Drake! The Vance double jumps atop the desk and swats the muzzle of Blade's shotgun aside, re-directing the BLAST, which SHATTERS a glass window. Then he KICKS Blade in the chest, KNOCKING him clear across the office as King advances. The Vance double's face WARPS, the bones in his head shifting around. He reaches for King, SLAMS him onto the desk, TWISTS the stake from King's hand and brutally SHOVING it into King's rib cage, pinning him to the desk top. Then the Vance double whirls around to engage Abigail only we see that it's Drake now, having taken Vance's shape.
DRAKE: BACK-HANDS Abigail across the face, a teeth-jarring blow. She spins, falling and Drake is moving like a hurricane, LEAPING through the window that was shattered by Blade's shotgun blast.
BLADE: gives chase. He looks out the window, SEES Drake landing on the ground, some three stories below.
BLADE FOLLOWS,: jumping onto the hood of another car. More HORNS sound. In this manner. Drake and Blade race across the flowing traffic itself. using the hoods and roofs of the cars like moving stepping stones.
WOMAN: My baby there's another open door
DRAKE: stands on the ledge of the roof, cradling an INFANT in his arms. In the full glare of the afternoon sun.
DRAKE: ( re: infant ) Just so we understand each other,
BLADE: Why did you kill Vance?
DRAKE: He'd outlived his purpose. He'd become a Drake nods at Blade's sword
DRAKE: Your sword I've seen that hilt before. Eight or nine centuries ago. The hunter who carried it was an accomplished EXT. SEASIDE CLIFF - DAY ( THE PAST ) Drake in his armor, head to head with a 14th century VAMPIRE HUNTER. The hunter has BLADE'S SWORD. Drake tears the sword from the hunter's grasp, turns it around, thrusts it back through the man's chest. And as the man GASPS we are
DRAKE: He was honorable, in his own way. He died a good death.
BLADE: I wouldn't know about that.
DRAKE: You lie. You're part of a grand tradition, Blade. You hunters have plagued my people since the day we first walked the earth. And I have vanquished them. One by one. Blade pauses, looking for some kind of opening.
BLADE: How can you exist in the daylight?
DRAKE: I've always been able to. Haven't you read Mr. Stoker's fable? I was the first of the vampires. I am unique.
BLADE: ( realizing ) That's why they brought you back.
DRAKE: Yes. My children seek to isolate the properties in my blood that make me immune to sunlight. Through me, they believe they can all become Daywalkers. Drake glances down at the street people. Throngs of PEOPLE are massing there, pointing up at him.
DRAKE: The world's changed much since I went to sleep. How crowded it's become. Look at them down there. Lives brief as fireflies. Do you think they can ever grasp what it means to be immortal like You're not immortal. I must've heard a hundred of you people make the same claim. And every one of them's seen the end of my Drake smiles, intrigued by an obviously worthy opponent.
BLADE: You're not immortal. I must've heard a hundred of you people make the same claim. And every one of them's seen the end of my Drake smiles, intrigued by an obviously worthy opponent.
DRAKE: Perhaps I will as well, then. But I think it's more likely that you will fall before Drake tosses the infant at Blade. Blade twists around to catch it, scooping it safely up. But when he looks back Drake is gone.
KING: Jesus, it hurts. I wanna be a vampire again fuck! Did you see that guy?! We're gonna lose, man. We're gonna fucking lose. Abigail ignores King, cuts open his shirt. She removes a small aerosol cannister from her belt.
BLADE: What's that?
ABIGAIL: Fibrin sealant foam, it's an elastic protein. Help me spread the wound open. The foam should seal the hemorrhaging in his body cavity from within Together they spread the wound apart. King is really hurting, breathing hard as he tries to fight back the pain.
KING: Hey, hey what'd the one lesbian vampire say to the other?
ABIGAIL: Shut up, King.
KING: see you in twenty-eight days
KING: Hey, Blade say we're successful. Say we wipe the vampires out. What happens then? You ever ask yourself that? Somehow I don't picture you parked on a porch with a jigsaw puzzle. King drifts back into unconsciousness again, leaving Blade left to ponder his words.
HEDGES: So basically we're in an arms race. They're using Drake's DNA to build themselves a better vampire
BLADE: ( noddin ) and we need his blood to kill them. ( to Sommerfield ) How's this weapon of yours coming along?
SODDERFIELD: We're almost there She gestures to a series of ampule-like prototypes. ( We'll see the completed version of this device later on. )
SOMMERFIELD: The virus is harmless to humans. So we decided to go after the vampires' food source. The one thing we know for sure about vampires is that they have to drink If we manage to pull this off, we'll be able to contaminate every blood source on the planet. They won't have anyone left to feed on.
ABIGAIL: Doesn't do us any good if we don't have time to finish it. We can't just sit here. We need to take the battle to them. Sommerfield lowers her head, thinking.
SOMMERFIELD: If the vampires are trying to isolate the hereditary factor in Drake that makes him immune to sunlight, they'll require certain kinds of laboratory equipment and provisions. For instance, there's an enzyme called Taq Polymerase. And there are only a limited number of suppliers. Give me a few hours. I'll see if I can't hunt us up some leads.
DRAKE: Why do you wear that symbol?
DANICA: ( defensive ) Old habits
DANICA: I was a good Catholic school girl Once. Drake nods, his thoughts distant.
DRAKE: I was there when they crucified him. He died for their sins, not mine.
DANICA: ( playful1y ) And what are your sins? Would you care to confess them?
DRAKE: ( shaking his head ) Too numerous to remember. ( nodding at the crucifix ) Take it off.
DANICA: I'll make you a better one. Drake draws her in, biting her gently on the neck, sinking his fangs into her flesh. He pulls his head back. Two rivulets of BLOOD trickle from the fresh wounds.
DRAKE: I'll make you a better one. Drake draws her in, biting her gently on the neck, sinking his fangs into her flesh. He pulls his head back. Two rivulets of BLOOD trickle from the fresh wounds.
DRAKE: There's an old saying Drake reaches for the sheet, pulling it away from Danica's chest. Then he dips his fingertips into her flowing blood - PAINTING a long streak of it down between her breasts.
DRAKE: Kill one man, you're a murderer. Kill a million, a king. Kill them all, a God.
ZOE: Why do you do that?
BLADE: There's something bad inside of me. This keeps it from getting out. Zee considers this.
ZOE: Why can't you just be nice?
BLADE: Good question.
SOMMERFIELD: Biomedica Enterprises. They've been buying up all sorts of supplies Taq polymerase, bone marrow growth supplement, genetic sequencing enzymes.
BLADE: We'll check it out.
CHIEF VREEDE: He was reaching into his jacket for his own piece, now thinks better of it.
BLADE: Doing a little moonlighting, Chief? Blade nods to Abigail. She reaches onto Vreede's jacket to disarm him. Blade grips Hendrix by the shirt collar.
BLADE: C'mere. We need to talk. Blade PUNCHES Hendrix in the face. Hendrix sags for a moment, Now spill it, bite-boy.
BLADE: Now spill it, bite-boy.
HENDRIX: ( wiping a bloody nose ) You know what we're doing. Drake has come back to us. Soon we'll all be Daywalkers. And when that day comes, the world will truly be ours.
BLADE: What's back there? Hendrix shoots a quick look to Vreede. Then he turns on Blade, all fangs and claws, trying to tear Blade's eyes out Abigail FIRES her UV gun with blinding speed and Hendrix is dead before he knows it. ASHING all over Blade. Blade brushes Hendrix' s remains from coat collar, shoots Abigail a look: "Did you really have to do that?"
BLADE: ( dryly )
BLADE: What's behind Door Number One?
VREEDE: They'll kill me
BLADE: ( an evil grin ) So will I. But I'll enjoy it more.
ABIGAIL: God in Heaven
BLADE: What was this place? Vreede pauses before answering, looking uncomfortable.
VREEDE: It's a blood farming facility. They decided that hunting humans on a piece-meal basis was too inefficient. Why kill your prey when you can keep them alive? Productive. Under optimal conditions a donor can generate anywhere from fifty to a hundred pints of blood a But where did you get all these people?
ABIGAIL: ( sickened ) But where did you get all these people?
VREEDE: The streets. In any given year you've got two to three million homeless people wandering around America No one cares about them. We're doing the country a service, really. Blade shakes his head, admiring the horrible efficiency.
BLADE: The vampire Final Solution. Abigail moves towards one of the pods, touching her hand to the glass, studyihg the comatose person within.
ABIGAIL: Are they aware? Do they feel anything?
VREEDE: ( shaking his head ) They're in a chemical-induced coma. They're brain-dead, vegetables.
BLADE: Look at this! Is this the future you want? You think there's a place for you in their world? Vreede starts crying, blubbering.
VREEDE: We don't have a choice! They're going to win, don't you see that?! He's come back! There's nothing stopping them now! Blade pulls Vreede back so they're nose to nose
BLADE: There's me. and Blade releases Vreede.
BLADE: Go. You've got thirty seconds. Vreede turns and runs, stumbling towards the door. Despite his promise, Blade lifts his MACH. Without even looking in Vreede's direction, Blade FIRES. We hear Vreede drop. Blade turns to Abigail. She can hardly contain herself. Nearby is a control console. Blade UNLOADS his MACH pistol into it, damaging the interlinked life support systems. One by one, the vital signs and EKGs on the pods flat-line, their warning tones rising into a collective, PIERCING WAIL.
COMPUTER: CYTOGENETICS AUDIT DATA FROM AUGUST FIFTEENTH, TWO-THOUSAND AND FOUR.
SOMMERFIELD: 'The reason most people are bad is because they do not try to be good. Now, the Nome King had never tried to be good, so he was very bad indeed. Having decided to conquer the Land of Oz and to destroy the Emerald City and enslave all its people, King Roquat the Red kept planning ways to do this dreadful thing, and the more he planned the more he believed he would be able to accomplish it '
COMPUTER: CYTOGENETICS AUDIT DATA FROM AUGUST FIFTEENTH, TWO-THOUSAND AND FOUR. ANGLE ON A BANK OF SURVEILLANCE MONITORS We see Whistler approaching through the garage.
KING: You get me those Fruit Roll-ups like I Dude. Aren't you dead? Whistler doesn't respond. King tries to sit up but Whistler places his hand on King's mouth, shoving him down, starting to smother him. King struggles, confused.
COMPUTER: BLOODS INPUT DELAY/ZERO. ABNORMAL SAMPLES/SEVEN. BANDING QUALITY/EIGHT- Sommerfield looks to the storage area. The silence is unnerving. She turns off her voice-synthesis program. Then closes the book.
SOMMERFIELD: Guys? You okay ?
SOMMERFIELD: Zoe, go find some place to hide, sweety. Zoe hesitates. Sommerfield senses it and lashes out with her cane, BANGING a rack of equipment, startling the girl.
SOMMERFIELD: Damnit, go! Get out of here, Zoe! The girl scurries away. Sommerfield TAP-TAPS with her cane, moving towards the storage area. She finds a gun cabinet, feels around with her hands, locates an electronic pistol.
ABIGAIL: Blade and Abigail rush to the infirmary area, but King is gone and the place has been trashed. They move into
ABIGAIL: ( realizing ) Zoe where's Zoe?
ABIGAIL: Where is she?! They can't find her anywhere.
SOMMERFIELD,: her body propped up mock-crucifixion style in the showers. On the wall nearby, someone has written a message in blood:
ON BLADE: He knows damn well who left him the message. As tears streak down Abigail's cheeks, she rushes to Sommmerfield's body. Together, she and Blade get her down. Abigail clutches Sommerfield, slowly rocking the body in her arms. Blade puts a hand on her shoulder.
BLADE: Use it. Abigail doesn't respond. Her whole body is shaking.
USE IT!!!: Abigail lifts her head toward the heavens, letting loose a TORTURED SCREAM that erupts from the very pit of her soul.
KING'S POV: The rottweiler we saw earlier is slobbering all over him. PULL BACK to reveal King on his knees, shirtless, both wrists secured behind him in a high-tech pillory. King tries to twist his head away from the dog. The rottweiler GROWLS.
KING: Back off, pooch The rottweiler's jaws open, revealing more teeth than any dog should probably have. Its muzzle splits in two as both sides of the rottweiler mandible fold back on either side of its head, disgorging a hellish and barbed tongue stalk! The mutant dog ROARS, ready to bite King's face off and
KING: Jesus Christ! Grimwood appears from off-screen, LAUGHING, pulling the animal back. We see Danica and Asher now as well.
KING: What the fuck?! WHAT THE FUCK?!?
ASHER: His name's Beau. We've been experimenting with porting the vampire gene over into other species. As Asher pets the rottweiler, its muzzle closes back up again. It looks up at him, panting happily, tongue lolling.
KING: You made a goddamn vampire dog?!
GRIMWOOD: Yeah. Cool, huh?
DANICA: Poor little King. You look so Danica wipes a little blood from the corner of King's mouth. She touches her fingertips to her tongue, tasting his blood.
DANICA: You're tasting a little bland, lover. Not getting enough fatty acids in your diet? Have you tried mackerel? Lake trout?
KING: How about you take a sugar-frosted fuck off the end of my dick?
DANICA: Oh, there'll be time to play doctor later, believe me. But for now, we need to have a little talk. Tell us about this bio-weapon you've been I can tell you two things. Diddly. And shit. And diddly just left the building. Grimwood steps forward, throttling King for a moment.
KING: I can tell you two things. Diddly. And shit. And diddly just left the building. Grimwood steps forward, throttling King for a moment.
GRINWOOD: Spit it out, you fucking fruitcake!
KING: Okay, here's the deal with the weapon - ( coughing ) It's a new flavor crystal formula. Twice the chocolaty-goodness, half the calories. Plus, it helps prevent tooth decay Grimwood moves in to choke him again, but Danica intervenes.
DANICA: You're brave, King, I'll give you that. But underneath all your swagger She leans closer, caressing his face.
DANICA: I know what you really fear. What would hurt you more than anything else.
DANICA: You don't want to go back to being one of do you? King tries to turn his head away, but Danica grips his chin, turning his head back. He's sweating now. Worried.
DANICA: I'm going to bite you again, King. And then I'm going to leave you here while you turn. I'm going to watch you, day after day, while the Thirst keeps building and building. And then, when you can't stand it anymore She nods. Drake appears, holding Zoe. She's alive. Terrified. Held firm in Drake's arms.
DANICA: I'm going to bring the little girl for you to feed on. Would you like that, King? Would you enjoy taking her life?
DANICA: Now we're getting somewhere, my pet.
BLADE: appears in the doorway, watching her.
BLADE: You alright?
ABIGAIL: ( brusque ) I'll be fine.
BLADE: Don't let it turn inward. Abigail takes a deep breath, pausing in her work.
ABIGAIL: It already has. Since I can remember I've had this knife of sadness in my heart. As long as it stays there, I'm strong. I'm untouchable. But the moment I pull it out I'll die. Blade nods. He understands all too well. He leaves.
ON ABIGAIL: She stands, moving to the shooting range. She straps on a quiver, takes aim at
ARIGAIL: I'm ready to go. HEADLIGHTS appear in the distance. Another Land Cruiser approaches, weaving through the amusement park. It pulls to a stop in front of them. The driver's side window rolls down.
CAULDER: My name is Caulder. And I'll be your driver this evening.
BLADE: Where are you taking us?
CAULDER: Another safehouse.
ABIGAIL: We told you, Blade. We operate in sleeper cells. When one goes down, a new cell activates to pick up the slack.
CAULDER: Sommerfield left a video message for you.
SOMMERFIELD: ( on video ) If you're watching this, I'm already dead. If Zoe's still alive, I want you to promise you'll take care of her. I've been reading her The Oz books every night. We just started The Emerald City of Oz, the one with the Nome King
SOMMERFIELD: I think I've managed to cultivate a workable strain of the Daystar virus. As a precaution, I transmitted the genetic sequence to Caulder, in case our main stock was destroyed. In order for it to achieve maximum lethality, you'll need to interfuse it with Drake's blood. If it works, any vampires in the immediate vicinity should die almost instantly. After that, it should take only a few weeks for the virus to spread throughout the rest of the world. Zoe hesitates, deciding how to broach the next subject.
SOMMERFIELD: There's one other thing, Blade. You need to know that there's a chance the virus could destroy you too. Because you're a hybrid, I'm not sure whether your immune system will be able tolerate it. I'm sorry. We didn't have enough time to properly test it. The video cuts to STATIC. Abigail turns off the monitor, looking to Blade. God only knows what he's thinking.
CAULDER: Take a look at the plague arrow. Caulder reaches for a refrigerated aluminum case, snapping it open. Inside, resting on a bed of form-fitting foam, is a glass ampule that's been fitted into a stake-like contraption. It looks like the head of a high-tech harpoon.
CAULDER: I only had time to fabricate a small batch of Daystar. I outfitted it with a compressed gas projectile, so you should be able to fire it from one of the fourbarrel rifles or a bow. Just make sure the shot counts, cause we don't have enough for a second try.
MORE DISSOLVES: Blade and Abigail suit up, arming themselves. We SEE: Blade loading rounds into his pistols. Abigail selecting arrows, checking the range-dials. Blade sliding silver stakes into his bandoliers. Abigail working with Caulder, affixing the plague capsule to one of her arrowheads. Blade polishes his sword. Finished, he sights down the length of it, takes a practice swing, then secures it in his back scabbard with a flourish.
DRAKE: Do you know who I am?
ZOE: You're the Nome King. Drake smiles at this.
DRAKE: The Nome King. I like that. Tell me, child. Do you want to die? Zoe is terrified but tries to remain defiant.
ZOE: I'm not afraid I'll go to Heaven.
DRAKE: There is no Heaven. No God. No angels. No happy ending for good little girls. The only thing you have to look forward to is nothingness. As Drake talks his pupils seem to widen until the darkness nearly occludes the whites of his eyes. Zoe stares at him. Can't tear her gaze away. His eyes are hypnotic.
DRAKE: But what if you could change that? What if you could remain a child forever? He reaches out, running a sharp fingernail over her cheek.
DRAKE: What if you could keep this little doll- like face of yours until the sun itself cooled to a cold, hard rock? Wouldn't you like that? Wouldn't you accept that gift? Zoe reaches out, calmly touches Drake's cheek.
ZOE: My friends are coming to kill you.
KING: gonna be sorry you did that
ASHER: Nobody's coming for you, King.
KING: Sure they are. Left a trail of digital bread crumbs
DANICA: Excuse me?
KING: One thing you need to know about us Nightstalkers. When you join our club, you get this nifty little tracking node surgically implanted in your body
GRIMWOOD: Scout's honor. One of us gets lost, the others just dial up the satellite and presto, instant cavalry. Grimwood looks to Asher and Danica, unsure.
KING: Scout's honor. One of us gets lost, the others just dial up the satellite and presto, instant cavalry. Grimwood looks to Asher and Danica, unsure.
AS HER: He's bluffing.
DANICA: ( smiling, playing along ) Okay, King, where did they put this tracking node of yours?
KING: It's in my left ass-cheek WHACK! Danica slaps King's face, making him see stars.
KING: Alright. alright, it's in my right ass- WHACK! Danica slaps King again, this time knocking his head the other way. He spits out blood
KING: No, seriously it's in the meat of my butt, right below my Bart Simpson tattoo Danica PUNCHES King's mid-section. He sucks air. Despite his attempts at humor, he's hurting now. His body sags
KING: pull down my tighty-whities see for ENOUGH! It's not funny anymore!
DANICA: ENOUGH! It's not funny anymore! Behind Danica, Grimwood and Asher both COUGH. King lifts his bruised face, staring up at Danica through blood-shrouded eyes. For the first time, we get a sense of his true hatred for her.
KING: No, it's not, you horse-humping bitch but it will be a few seconds from now.
DANICA: ( coughing ) And what happens then, lover?
KING: Hammer time. See, that tickle in your throat you're feeling right now? Danica COUGHS again, blinks repeatedly, as if her eyes were irritated. She rubs them, looks to the others. They're feeling the effects too. And Grimwood's face is smoking!
KING: That's atomized colloidal silver. Danica keys into the RUMBLE of the air-conditioning system and a HISSING SOUND beneath that. She looks up
KING: It's being pumped into the building's air conditioning system.
KING: Which means that the fat lady should be singing right about
GRIMWOOD: has caught the worst of it. A whole lung-full. He SHRIEKS as He coughs up blue-tinged FLAMES, the flesh on his face simultaneously burning away and
KING: THE SKYLIGHT ABOVE THEM SHATTERS as Blade crashes down. He lands in a cat-like stance, then flips over into a cartwheel, KICKING Grimwood in the face. As Grimwood goes down, Asher and Danica scatter Blade tackles Grimwood, sending both of them over the railing into the lower level of the penthouse.
NOW: THE SKYLIGHT ABOVE THEM SHATTERS as Blade crashes down. He lands in a cat-like stance, then flips over into a cartwheel, KICKING Grimwood in the face. As Grimwood goes down, Asher and Danica scatter Blade tackles Grimwood, sending both of them over the railing into the lower level of the penthouse.
REINFORCENENTS: flood in from multiple entry ways. It's an all-out melee. Blade is seriously overwhelmed, but the sheer number of vampires and humans is actually slowing them down. Blade takes on a half-dozen of them at once, stunning one of the familiars, using him as a human shield, TOSSING him aside to trip up another on-rushing pair. Then he pauses, instantly calculating the geography of the room, the relative positions of the other combatants, assessing decorations and furniture as possible weapons. His battle plan ready, Blade engages his enemies once again.
ABIGAIL: You alright?
KING: Nothing a hot tub full of Bactine won't Abigail hits the release switch on the high-tech pillory and the cuffs around his wrists open. As Abigail helps King out:
ABIGAIL: Drake's got her. Abigail nods, handing King her pistol. Then she's out the door. Seconds later, King follows
KING: Drake's got her. Abigail nods, handing King her pistol. Then she's out the door. Seconds later, King follows
ABIGAIL: Come on, hon. Let's get you out of here.
KING'S POV: Beau, the vampire rottweiler, lopes around the corner. Then
KING: ( under his breath ) Fuck. Me. Sideways.
DRAKE: stands before him, waiting, sword in hand. He extends it, touching the tip to the floor. A challenge.
DRAKE: Are you ready to die, Blade?
BLADE: Been ready since the day I was born, Then allow me to accommodate you. Drake does a back-flip over the balcony. Forty feet down. Blade follows, drawing his sword as he LEAPS
DRAKE: ( with a smile ) Then allow me to accommodate you.
DRAKE: breaks first, bringing his sword over in less time than it takes to blink an eye. No one could possibly deflect the blow. And yet
BLADE: manages a COUNTER-STROKE with super-human grace. He advances, parries, his sword CLANGING and SINGING like a blacksmith's hammer on sheet metal. Cut, thrust, block, diagonal downward slashes. The moves come faster. Drake DUCKS, barely avoiding being decapitated. Blade's sword cuts right through a column instead. Drake retaliates. Blade locks swords with him. For a moment, the two warriors are nose to nose. Then Blade twists his sword free, cutting open Drake's cheek Drake GROWLS, back-flipping up onto a ledge. He touches his fingertips to the cut, tastes his own blood. Then we hear the telltale sounds of CARTILAGE POPPING. For a brief moment, his facial features shift, giving us yet another glimpse of his true form. As his anger increases, Drake begins to devolve. He DIVES at Blade, HOWLING, raking his CLAWS at Blade's face. He strikes out, KNOCKING Blade across the atrium. He SPRINGS forward, dragging Blade up by his throat, sinking his fangs into Blade's shoulder. Blide SCREAMS and we
UP AHEAD: It's a dead-end. Just plate glass windows and a whole lot of nothing beyond. The dogs are almost on King when suddenly, King JUMPS, snagging an overhead pipe. As he swings his body upward
THE DOGS: skid on the floor, unable to stop their momentum, and CRASH straight through the plate glass window.
THE ROTTWEILER: ASHES, disintegrating all over King's face. King gets a mouthful of the charcoal remains, tries to SPIT them out.
KING: ( making a face ) Bad dog.
DANICA: appears behind King. She TACKLES him, wrestling him to the floor, pummeling his face with her fist. King tries to ward of f the blows, but he's sorely outmatched. He swings his electronic pistol up Danica twists it from his grip, ejecting the clip from the stock. King's sun dog bullets spill out all over the floor. She tosses the gun aside, reaches for King again
KING!!!: appears behind King. She TACKLES him, wrestling him to the floor, pummeling his face with her fist. King tries to ward of f the blows, but he's sorely outmatched. He swings his electronic pistol up Danica twists it from his grip, ejecting the clip from the stock. King's sun dog bullets spill out all over the floor. She tosses the gun aside, reaches for King again
DANICA: appears behind King. She TACKLES him, wrestling him to the floor, pummeling his face with her fist. King tries to ward of f the blows, but he's sorely outmatched. He swings his electronic pistol up Danica twists it from his grip, ejecting the clip from the stock. King's sun dog bullets spill out all over the floor. She tosses the gun aside, reaches for King again
KING: No offense, Danica but I've wanted to kill you since the moment we slept together.
DANICA: I was that bad, huh? King reaches a palsied hand for his discarded pistol, points it vaguely in Danica's direction. She LAUGHS.
DANICA: No bullets in your gun, King.
KING: Yeah, but here's the beauty these babies can be triggered remotely. King pulls the trigger. The scattered sun dog bullets ERUPT with UV LIGHT. Danica SHRIEKS, trying to shield her already burning face from the glare. She runs, horribly wounded.
BEHIND KING,: we SEE Zoe slip from the alcove. She makes for the stairs.
ON ABIGAIL,: stunned, her expression melting into despair.
BLADE: GASPS, sinking downward. He's on his knees now, in shock. Drake ROARS again shifting, conjuring up seventy centuries of violence and predation. And the nightmare shape that was only hinted at before, finally takes center-stage. BLOOD suffuses Drake's flesh, turning his skin crimson. His canines elongate, his lower jaw distends. Jagged bone spurs erupt all over his body like he's growing a suit of razor-sharp thorns. He doesn't need a sword anymore. He's become a living weapon. Drake is gone. Now he THE BEAST Drake swings the sword overhead. He's going to decapitate Blade. And just as the sword reaches the top of its arc
THE BEAST: Drake swings the sword overhead. He's going to decapitate Blade. And just as the sword reaches the top of its arc
ZOE: emerges from the shadows behind Drake, clutching a silver stake. She SHOVES it into Drake's back, pushing with all the strength her little body can muster. Drake staggers. The blow wasn't lethal, but it hurt all the same. He turns on Zoe, enraged, his attention distracted for one crucial second
ON BLADE,: summoning the last of his reserves. He pitches his body forward, managing to snag the end of the plague arrow. And before Drake even realizes what is happening WHAM! Blade sinks the plague arrow deep into Drake's chest. Drake drops the sword, turning back to face Blade Exhausted beyond measure, Blade sags.
DANICA,: having retreated from her defeat by King. She clutches her throat. We can see the virus infiltrating her system as tiny BLACK THREADS expand across her face. She sways, falling onto the floor. She reaches a beseeching hand towards King then dies, a final still-born curse on her lips.
MORE VAMPIRES: are feeling the effects now too. One by one they drop, choking, going into convulsions. As they writhe on the floor, we watch the Daystar virus ravaging their bodies.
DRAKE: Well done, hunter. Well done. Blade stares back. At this point, he's just trying to remain conscious. He's lost a ton of blood.
DRAKE: You fought with honor Drake shudders, his breathing becoming increasingly shallow.
DRAKE: as I knew you would. The humans are coming for you, you know. In their eyes, you and I are the same. Allow me one last indulgence, then a parting gift
ABIGAIL: Her voice sounds distant and muted, overridden by Blade's own HEARTBEAT which is fading up, dominating the soundtrack.
ABIGAIL: Blade's eyes can't focus anymore. They're clouding over.
BLADE!!!: Blade's eyes can't focus anymore. They're clouding over.
BLADE'S POV: We drop away from Abigail and King like we're falling down a dark tunnel. Then the world FADES TO WHITE.
ON CUMBERLAND,: surveying the scene, frustrated by what he's found. Then we hear SHOUTS coming from the back of the atrium.
BLADE'S FACE: changes. We hear a series of POPS and CRACKS as subdermal cartilage begins to loosen and shift. At the same time, the skin begins to lighten as melanin is gradually leached away.
UNDERWATER: We see the sword sinking, reflecting the refracted sunlight from above as it twirls end over end.
KING: Evening Lucius.
LUCIUS: King, what the hell are you doing here?
KING: Just a little sport hunting.
LUCIUS: Ain't no vampires left, King. So who do you have to hunt?
KING: That's an interesting question, my friend. And I've got a question for you in return.
KING: What do you get when you cross a vampire with a werewolf? The door to the men's room EXPLODES OPEN. Abigail comes flying out. She hits the far wall of the hallway, slides to th floor. But she's up in an instant, pulling a knife on
KING: ( raising his four-barrel ) A fur coat that sticks to your neck.
KING: Don't you know fur is murder? As King FIRES point-blank into the were-creature we
