"BLOOD SIMPLE": Joel Coen and Ethan Coen
LANDSCAPES: An opening voice-over plays against dissolving Texas landscapesbroad, bare, and lifeless.
CUT TO: ROAD NIGHT We are rushing down a rain-swept country road, listening to the rhythmic swish of tires on wet asphalt.
WOMAN: .He gave me a little pearl-handled .38 for out first anniversary.
MAN: .Figured I'd better leave before I used it on him. I don't know how you can stand him.
WOMAN: .Figured I'd better leave before I used it on him. I don't know how you can stand him.
MAN: Well, I'm only an employee, I ain't married to him.
WOMAN: Pause, as an oncoming car passes. Finally:
WOMAN: .I don't know. Sometimes I think there's something wrong with him. Like maybe he's sick? Mentally?. Or is it maybe me, do you think?
MAN: Listen, I ain't a marriage counselor. I don't know what goes on, I don't wanna know. But I like you. I always liked you.
MAN: .What're you gonna do in Houston?
WOMAN: I'll figure something out. How come you offered to drive me in this I told you. I like you.
MAN: I told you. I like you.
WOMAN: See, I never knew that.
MAN: Well now you do.
WOMAN: Another pause. Another car.
WOMAN: Stop the car, Ray!
MAN: She doesn't answer. He turns to look back and we see his face, for the first time, in the headlights of the car behind.
HIS POV: The car behind them waiting, patiently. Rain drifts down past its headlights. Finally it pulls out and passes them slowly, their headlights showing it to be a battered green Volkswagon. First the car itself, then its red taillights, disappear into the rain.
MAN: .You know that car?
WOMAN: What's the matter?
MAN: What's the matter?
WOMAN: I don't know. I just think maybe I'm making a mistake.
WOMAN: .What was that back there?
MAN: Back where?
WOMAN: I don't know. Motel. Abby
MAN: I don't know. Motel. Abby
WOMAN: Ray. Did you mean that, what you said before, or were you just being a gentleman?
MAN: Abby, I like you, but it's no point starting anything now.
WOMAN: I mean, I ain't a marriage counselor
MAN: I mean, I ain't a marriage counselor
WOMAN: The man is uncomfortable.
MAN: .What do you want to do?
WOMAN: .What do you want to do?
MOTEL ROOM: Pulling back from RAY and ABBY in bed, making love. The only light is from cars passing along the highway outside. Each sweeping light-by ends in black. The pullback ends in a wide shot of the motel room. The black following the last car lingers. A telephone rings.
RAY: Having a good time?
VOICE: Having a good time?
RAY: .What? Who is this?
VOICE: I don't know, who's this?
VOICE: .You still there?
RAY: Yeah, I'm still here.
ABBY: What was that?
RAY: What was that?
ABBY: What was that?
RAY: Your husband.
VOICE: I know a place you can get that
JULIAN MARTY: Sits staring down at the photograph. Behind him a window opens on the bar proper. Country-western music filters in from the bar. Marty is not pleased.
MARTY: What did you take these for?
VISSER: What do you mean.
VISSER: .Just doin' my job.
MARTY: You called me, I knew they were there, so what do I need these for?
VISSER: Well, I don't know. Call it a fringe How long did you watch her?
MARTY: How long did you watch her?
VISSER: Most of the night.
VISSER: .They'd just rest a few minutes and then get started again. Quite
MARTY: You know in Greece they cut off the head of the messenger who brought bad news.
VISSER: Now that don't make much sense.
MARTY: No. It just made them feel better.
VISSER: Well first off, Julian, I don't know what the story is in Greece but in this state we got very definite laws about that.
VISSER: .Second place I ain't a messenger, I'm a private investigator. And third placeand most importantit ain't such bad news. I mean you thought he was a colored. .You're always assumin' the worst.
VISSER: .Anything else?
MARTY: Yeah, don't come by here any more. If I need you again I know which rock to turn over.
VISSER: That's good. "which rock to turn over". that's very good.
VISSER: Well, gimme a call whenever you wanna cut off my head.
VISSER: .I can crawl around without it.
MARTY'S BAR: REVERSE ANGLE VAULTING MAN Tracking back with him as he lands on the customer side and heads across the bar. This shot, from the other side of the back-office window, reveals the window to be one-way glass mirrored on this side MEURICE, the black bartender, is muscular, about 200 pounds, dressed in white pants and a sleeveless T-shirt. He is making his way through the crowd towards the jukebox. Another man stands in front of it examining the selections. He deposits a quarter.
MEURICE: Hold it, hold it. What's tonight?
MAN: What night is it?
MEURICE: What night is it?
MAN: ( studying Meurice ) Right. Friday night is Yankee night. Where're you from?
MEURICE: Right. Friday night is Yankee night. Where're you from?
MAN: Meurice shakes his head and punches the selector buttons on the jukebox.
MEURICE: Right. I'm from Detroit It's a big city up north with tall
MEURICE: Where was I?
WOMAN: You we telling me about the Ring of Yeah, well, I may be getting in over my head here, I mean you're the geologist, but my theory for what it's worth, you got all these volcanoes and each time one pops it's the equivalent of what, twenty, thirty megatons of TNT? Enough to light Las Vegas for how long? How many years? Course, I'm no mathematician but
MEURICE: Yeah, well, I may be getting in over my head here, I mean you're the geologist, but my theory for what it's worth, you got all these volcanoes and each time one pops it's the equivalent of what, twenty, thirty megatons of TNT? Enough to light Las Vegas for how long? How many years? Course, I'm no mathematician but
MARTY: Marty is approaching from the direction of the office.
MEURICE: Yeah, I know. Pour 'em short.
MARTY: Has Ray come in yet?
MEURICE: No, he's off tonight. Where was he last night?
MARTY: ( glaring ) How would I know?
MEURICE: I don't know, didn't he call?
MEURICE: .Marty, I'd like you to meet an old friend of mine, Debra. Debra, this is Julian Marty, the dude I'm always talking about.
MARTY: If he does come in I'm not here. What were you drinking, Debra?
DEBRA: You've got a very sophisticated Give Debra here another drink, and give me the usual.
MARTY: You've got a very sophisticated Give Debra here another drink, and give me the usual.
DEBRA: Give Debra here another drink, and give me the usual.
MARTY: Give Debra here another drink, and give me the usual.
DEBRA: .What's a palate?
MARTY: Listen, I got tickets for the Oilers and the Rams next week in the Astrodome. Ever sat on the fifty yard line?
DEBRA: I don't follow baseball.
MARTY: You won't have to. I'll explain what a palate is.
DEBRA: You won't have to. I just wanted to see if you knew.
MARTY: What's this?
MEURICE: You said the usual
MARTY: Red Label.
MEURICE: ( picking up the milk ) Right. Sorry.
MARTY: Pour that back.
MEURICE: Don't throw that out.
MARTY: Don't throw that out.
MEURICE: He wanders on down the bar; Marty's attention returns to the
MARTY: So how long have you know Meurice?
DEBRA: About ten years.
MARTY: HIS POV Meurice is pouring the milk down the sink. He looks innocently BACK TO MARTY Angry but not knowing what to say. He glances around the bar, sinks slowly back onto his stool.
HIS POV: Meurice is pouring the milk down the sink. He looks innocently BACK TO MARTY Angry but not knowing what to say. He glances around the bar, sinks slowly back onto his stool.
MEURICE: BACK TO MARTY Angry but not knowing what to say. He glances around the bar, sinks slowly back onto his stool.
MARTY: Deuce in the corner needs help.
MEURICE: Marty sits staring across the bar for a moment, nods a couple of times at nothing in particular, then looks back at the
MARTY: .So what're you doing tonight?
DEBRA: Going out with Meurice.
MARTY: Tell him you have a headache.
DEBRA: It'll pass.
MARTY: We don't seem to be communicating
DEBRA: You want to hustle me. I don't want to be hustled. It's as simple as that. Now that I've communicated, why don't you leave?
MARTY: I own the place.
DEBRA: Christ, I'm getting bored.
MARTY: I'm not surprised, the company you've been keeping the last ten years.
MARTY: What's this?
MEURICE: ( pointing at Meurice's drink ) Jack Daniels. Don't worry, I'm paying for it.
MARTY: ( pointing at Meurice's drink ) Jack Daniels. Don't worry, I'm paying for it.
MEURICE: Jack Daniels. Don't worry, I'm paying for it.
MARTY: That's not the point.
MEURICE: What's the point?
MARTY: The point is we don't serve niggers .I'm very careful about that. He thinks I'm kidding. Everybody thinks I'm kidding; if Ray comes in I'm not home.
MEURICE: ( he looks over his shoulder; up and down the bar ) .I'm very careful about that. He thinks I'm kidding. Everybody thinks I'm kidding; ( as he turns to leave ) if Ray comes in I'm not home.
MARTY: He thinks I'm kidding. Everybody thinks I'm kidding; if Ray comes in I'm not home.
DEBRA: Nice guy.
MEURICE: Not really. What'd you say your last name was?
BILLIARD ROOM: It is a paneled, carpeted room with black leather furniture and a nine-foot billiard table. Various stuffed animal trophies are scattered around the room, including a moose head mounted on one wall. Ray stands alone in the foreground, shooting pool, an unlit cigarette in his mouth. The room is very quiet. In the background the German shepherd enters from the hallway, sits down in a corner, and benignly watches Ray.
UPSTAIRS BEDROOM: It is expensively appointed; a brightly lit woman's bedroom. Abby is opening a hinged drawer in a white antique bureau. She pulls out a leather handbag, gropes nervously through its contents, then puts it aside. She crosses the room to a vanity table, takes a purse from underneath, and spills its contents out on top of the table.
BILLIARD ROOM: Ray pockets a couple of balls, looks over at the dog, then up at the wall at the far end of the room.
RAY'S POV: Hanging on the wall are a couple of framed photographs of Marty and Abby, taken a long time ago.
UPSTAIRS BEDROOM: Abby is sitting on a large double bed. She puts aside another purse, rises and crosses the room hurriedly, and pushes back the sliding doors of a long wardrobe closet. The upper shelf is lined with handbagsfifteen or twenty of them. She grabs the first one, looks in, tosses it aside; grabs the second, looksand stops.
HER POV: Inside the purse, a small pearl-handled gun.
BILLIARD ROOM: Ray is now standing in front of the pictures on the wall, looking from one to the next.
RAY'S POV: A picture of Abby and Marty standing together on a Gulf beach. Marty is wearing a long velour beach robe, Abby is in a swimming suit. Ray's hand enters frame. He traces a finger down her leg.
ABBY'S VOICE: BACK TO RAY He turns from the photograph and walks to an intercom speaker next to the mounted moose's head. He presses the speaker He idly takes his unlit cigarette and sticks it in the moose's
RAY: He idly takes his unlit cigarette and sticks it in the moose's
RAY: .You get what you wanted?
ABBY'S VOICE: Yeah. Let's get out of here.
RAY: Why d'you wanna leave all this?
ABBY: You kidding? I don't wanna leave all this, I just wanna leave Marty.
ABBY: .Drive me to a motel?
RAY: You can stay at my place, I'll drop you there.
ABBY: Where. where you going?
RAY: See a guy.
ABBY: ( nervously ) Don't go to the bar, Ray. I know him, that ain't a good idea.
RAY: I just gotta see a guy.
MARTY'S BAR: The crowd has thinned out. Meurice and Debra are in the Ray enters from the street and makes his way over to them.
MEURICE: Howdy stranger.
RAY: Meurice. Sorry I didn't show last Wasn't too busy. You missed a good one, though. This white guy walks in about one o'clock, asks if we have a discount for alcoholics. I tell him to get lost, but Marty's sitting here listening and I can tell he's thinking that maybe it ain't such a bad idea. .Ray, this is Debra. She's a geologist. That's the theory of rocks.
MEURICE: Wasn't too busy. You missed a good one, though. This white guy walks in about one o'clock, asks if we have a discount for alcoholics. I tell him to get lost, but Marty's sitting here listening and I can tell he's thinking that maybe it ain't such a bad idea. .Ray, this is Debra. She's a geologist. That's the theory of rocks.
MEURICE: .Ray, this is Debra. She's a geologist. That's the theory of rocks.
RAY: Is Marty here?
MEURICE: Not here tonight. Wasn't here last night. He's especially not back in his office.
RAY: ( leaving ) Thanks Meurice.
MEURICE: For what?
MARTY'S POV: In the middle distance a huge incinerator operates full blast. Orange flames lick out the sides; white smoke billows out the top. Two figures in silhouette are chucking garbage in through a large gate.
RAY: Marty looks over his shoulder, then back toward the furnace. Ray descends the stoop and stands in front of him.
RAY: .Well.? What?
MARTY: What "what"?
RAY: Am I fired? You wanna hit me? What?
MARTY: I don't particularly want to talk to Well. if you're not gonna fire me I might as well quit.
RAY: Well. if you're not gonna fire me I might as well quit.
MARTY: Fine. Suit yourself. .Having a good time?
RAY: .I don't like this kind of talk.
MARTY: Then what'd you come here for?
RAY: ( no more conciliation ) You owe me for two weeks.
MARTY: Nope. She's an expensive piece of
MARTY: .You get a refund though, if you tell me who else she's been sluicing.
RAY: I want that money. If you wanna tell me something, fine
MARTY: What're you, a fucking marriage
MARTY: What're you smiling atI'm a funny guy, right, I'm an asshole? No, no, that's not what's funny. What's funny is her. What's funny is that I had you two followed because, if it isn't you, she's been sleeping with someone
MARTY: .What's really going to be funny is when she gives you that innocent look and says, What're you talking about, Ray, I haven't done anything
MARTY: .But the funniest thing to me right now is that you think she came back here for youthat's what's funny.
MARTY: .Come on this property again and I'll be forced to shoot you. .Fair notice.
MARTY: .Fair notice.
MEURICE: .I thought you were dead. Going No. I think I'll stay right here in Kind of a bleak point of view there, isn't it Marty?
MARTY: No. I think I'll stay right here in Kind of a bleak point of view there, isn't it Marty?
MEURICE: ( turning to leave ) Kind of a bleak point of view there, isn't it Marty?
MARTY: Meurice pauses in the doorway.
MARTY: .I don't want that asshole near my money. I don't even want him in the We get a lot of assholes in here,
MEURICE: We get a lot of assholes in here,
MARTY'S POV: The ceiling fan, turning slowly.
ABBY: The is no answer. From the other end we hear only the rhythmic whir of a ceiling fan.
MARTY'S OFFICE: Marty listens. He says nothing, still tilted back in his chair, staring at the ceiling.
ABBY: The phone goes dead just as we hear the front door opening. Abby looks up as she cradles the phone. Ray is standing in the doorway.
RAY: Who was it?
ABBY: On the phone. Was it for you?
RAY: On the phone. Was it for you?
ABBY: I don't know, he didn't say anything.
RAY: Uh-huh. So how do you know it was a You got a girlam I screwing something up by being here?
ABBY: ( smiling ) You got a girlam I screwing something up by being here?
RAY: No, am I?
ABBY: .I can find a place tomorrow, then I'll be outta your hair.
RAY: If that's what you want to do, then you oughta do it. You, uh. you want the bed or the couch?
ABBY: Well. the couch would be all You can sleep on the bed if you want.
RAY: You can sleep on the bed if you want.
ABBY: Well. I'm not gonna put you out of your bed.
RAY: You wouldn't be putting me out.
ABBY: .Well, I'd be okay in here
RAY: MARTY'S OFFICE LATER Still tilted back in his chair, Marty stares glumly at the ceiling. The bar itself is completely still except the rhythmic whir of the fan.
HER POV: A ray of light slants up the hallway from the direction of the bedroom. The light is snapped off, leaving the hallway in darkness. We hear a faint cough and the creaking of RAY'S BEDROOM Ray lies in bed, staring at the ceiling.
RAY'S BEDROOM: Ray lies in bed, staring at the ceiling.
ABBY'S POV: Ray in bed, his eyes closed.
ABBY'S POV: Close shot, Ray asleep.
ABBY'S POV: In the shadows at the far end of the room we can just see two pointed ears and a glittering pair of eyes. The German shepherd is panting softly.
ABBY: In the mirror something moves just behind her. Abby starts to turn. Marty's hand clamps over her mouth from behind. His other hand circles her waist. Abby struggles.
MARTY: ( quietly ) Lover-boy oughta lock his door.
MARTY: .Lotta nuts out there.
MARTY: Let's do it outside.
MARTY: .in nature.
FRONT STOOP: Ray is coming out the door, hitching up his pants. In his right hand he hold Abby's pearl-handled revolver.
MARTY: Slowly gets to his feet, looking at Ray.
ABBY: She has backed away from Marty and now stands on the lawn, breathing heavily. She looks from Ray to Marty.
RAY: Watching the car. He looks at Abby.
ABBY: Still panting. Up the street we can hear Marty's car alternately racing and stopping, shifting in and out of gear. His engine rumble starts to grow louder again.
RAY: Like to have seen his face when he found the dead end.
LATERAL TRACK: Moving past a row of cars parked on an overlook near the top of the mountain. Below we can see the lights of the city of Austin. The lot is littered with beer cans. We hear the sound of rock music coming from various car radios. Several teenagers lean against cars drinking beer; inside the cars we can see the vague forms of others.
TEENAGER: Hey mister, how'd you break your
MARTY'S POV: At the end of a row of cars we see a green Volkswagon bug. Leaning against the hood is Visser, still dressed in his rumpled yellow suit. He is smoking a cigarette, talking to a sixteen-year-old girl in shorts and a tube top. When he notices Marty:
VISSER: ( to the girl ) Sorry sweetheart, my date is here. .She saw me rolling a cigarette and thought it was marijuana. ( he laughs ) I guess she thought I was a swinger.
VISSER: .She saw me rolling a cigarette and thought it was marijuana. I guess she thought I was a swinger.
VISSER: Idnat wild?
VISSER: ( genially ) Stick your finger up the wrong person's ass?
VISSER: You know a friend of mine broke his hand a while back. Put in a cast. Very next day he takes a fall, protects his bad hand, falls on his good one, breaks that too. So now he's got two busted flippers and I say to him "Creighton, I hope your wife loves you. 'Cause for the next five weeks you cannot wipe your own goddamn ass."
VISSER: .That's the test, ain't it? Test of true love
MARTY: Got a job for you.
VISSER: ( settling down ) .Well, if the pay's right and it's legal I'll do it.
MARTY: It's not strictly legal. If the pay's right I'll do it.
VISSER: If the pay's right I'll do it.
MARTY: It's, uh. it's in reference to that gentleman and my wife. The more I think about it the more irritated I get.
VISSER: Yeah? Well how irritated are you?
VISSER: .Gee, I'm sorry to hear that. Can you tell me what you want me to do or is it a secret?
MARTY: Listen, I'm notthis isn't a joke
VISSER: You want me to kill 'em.
MARTY: I didn't say that. Well what?
VISSER: Well what?
MARTY: What do you think?
VISSER: You're an idiot.
MARTY: So, uh. this wouldn't interest I didn't say that. All I said was you're an idiot. Hell, you been thinking about it so much it's driving you simple.
VISSER: I didn't say that. All I said was you're an idiot. Hell, you been thinking about it so much it's driving you simple.
MARTY: Ten thousand dollars I'll give you.
VISSER: I'm supposed to do a murdertwo murdersand just trust you not to go simple on me and do something stupid. I mean real stupid. Now why should I trust you?
MARTY: For the money.
VISSER: ( sobering ) The money. Yeah. That's a right smart of money.
VISSER: .In Russia they make only fifty cents a day.
MARTY: ( hoarsely ) .There's a big
VISSER: ( abruptly ) I want you to go fishing.
MARTY: Go down to Corpus for a few days. Get yourself noticed. I'll give you a call when it's done. You just find a way to cover that money.
VISSER: Go down to Corpus for a few days. Get yourself noticed. I'll give you a call when it's done. You just find a way to cover that money.
MARTY: I'll take care of the money, you just make sure those bodies aren't found. There's a.
MARTY: .If you want, there's a big incinerator behind my place.
VISSER: ( under his breath ) Sweet Jesus, you are disgusting.
LANDLADY: ( cheerful again ) I show you around. Are you sure this is. Are you sure this apartment is vacant?. Mrs.
ABBY: Are you sure this is. Are you sure this apartment is vacant?. Mrs.
LANDLADY: Oh yes.
LANDLADY: .That's the kitchen.
LANDLADY: .This is the bathroom.
LANDLADY: .The toilet works and everytheen.
LANDLADY: .And here we are back in the liveen
LANDLADY: .Good floors. Gas heat.
LANDLADY: .That's Mr. Garcia.
LANDLADY: .I was just esplaineen to him that he moved out of here yesterday.
LANDLADY: .You look around. Don't mind Mr. Garcia; he use do be my brother-in-
EXHORTER'S CUBICLE: Hunched over the public address microphone in his small cubicle of exhortation, is the middle-aged strip-bar barker. Years of service in the bar have left his exhortations depressingly bereft of conviction.
EXHORTER: How 'bout it, gentlemen, let's show out appreciation for Lorraine up there, a registered nurse from Bolton, Texas, how 'bout it gentlemen, yeah.
ABBY: Looks like the state legislature is out of session.
MEURICE: I thought this is where they met.
ABBY: Listen Meurice, you're gonna help me with a problem.
MEURICE: I am?
ABBY: You're gonna keep an eye on Marty and Ray, make sure nothing happens.
MEURICE: It won't? .Ever occur to you, Abby, that maybe I'm the wrong person to ask?
MEURICE: .Ever occur to you, Abby, that maybe I'm the wrong person to ask?
THE EXHORTER: Into his microphone.
EXHORTER: Let's not sit on our wallets, gentlemen. Lorraine is up there dancing her heart out, and if you let that cash money set on your hip, you might just as well be broke.
ABBY: Thanks, Meurice.
MEURICE: Any time. But you don't have to worry about a thing for a while. Marty went down to Corpus yesterday.
THE EXHORTER: Into his microphone.
EXHORTER: And remember, gentlemen, we're always here, two to two, A.M. to P.M., three hundred and sixty-four days and Christmas, God willing and the creek don't rise.
RAY'S BEDROOM: The room is dark. We are looking across the room toward a moonlit window. Beyond, across the lawn, the lamplit street is empty. Suddenly Abby sits bolt upright into frame from the bed below.
ABBY: He's in the house.
RAY: What's the matter?
ABBY: I could've sworn I heard something.
RAY: Door's locked. Nothing there.
ABBY: I knew it. 'Cause we wouldn't have heard anything if it was him. He's real careful. Fact is, he's anal.
RAY: Yeah, he told me once himself. He said to me.
ABBY: Yeah, he told me once himself. He said to me.
ABBY: ."In here, Abby. In here. I'm
RAY: ( yawning ) .Well I'll be damned.
ABBY: I couldn't believe it either.
ABBY: .Me on the other hand, I got lots of personality.
ABBY: Marty always said I had too much. 'Course he was never big on .He sent me to a psychiatrist to see if he could calm me down some.
ABBY: .He sent me to a psychiatrist to see if he could calm me down some.
RAY: Yeah? What happened?
ABBY: Psychiatrist said I was the healthiest person he'd ever met, so Marty fired .I don't know if you can fire a psychiatrist, exactly.
RAY: ( sleepily ) .I don't know if you can fire a psychiatrist, exactly.
ABBY: Well, I didn't see him anymore, I'll tell you that much.
RAY: I said, Marty, how come you're anal and I gotta go to the psychiatrist?
ABBY: I said, Marty, how come you're anal and I gotta go to the psychiatrist?
RAY: What'd he say?
ABBY: Nothing. He's like you, he doesn't say much.
RAY: ( murmuring ) Except when he doesn't say things they're usually nasty.
ABBY: Except when he doesn't say things they're usually nasty.
RAY: When you don't they're usually nice.
ABBY: When you don't they're usually nice.
RAY: .You ever get tired?
ABBY: Huh? Oh, yeah, I guess. Mm-hmm.
CUT TO: EXT. PHONE BOOTH DAY A huge truck roars by on the street behind Visser, and with it the deafening rumble recedes. It is a painfully bright day. Visser stands sweating in the phone booth with the receiver pressed to his ear. We hear the phone ringing at the other end. Finally, it is picked up.
VOICE: Yeah. Is it.
VISSER: Yeah. Is it.
MARTY: Yeah. Is it.
VISSER: Ya catch any fish?
MARTY: Ya catch any fish?
VISSER: Ya catch any fish?
MARTY: .What kind of fish?
VISSER: .What kind of fish?
MARTY: Listen, what is it? Is it done?
VISSER: .Yessir, you owe me some money.
VISSER: ( dully ) They look good. Want a couple?
MARTY: Want a couple?
VISSER: Just the ten thousand'll be fine.
MARTY: Got something to show me first?
THE PHOTOGRAPH: It is a black-and-white shot of Abby and Ray in Ray's bed. The sheet that partially covers them is pocked with three dark bullet holes and is stained with blood.
MARTY: Staring dully down at the picture.
MARTY: Dead, huh?
VISSER: So it would seem.
MARTY: What did you.
MARTY: .What did you do with the bodies?
VISSER: It's taken care of. The less you know about it the better.
MARTY: Jesus, I don't believe it.
MARTY: .I think I'm gonna be sick.
VISSER: I'll want that picture back.
VISSER'S POV: The standing safe behind the desk.
VISSER: .and you did say somethin' about some money.
MARTY: Your money, yeah.
VISSER: Something I got to ask you, Marty. I've been very very careful. Have you been very very careful?
MARTY: Of course.
VISSER: Nobody knows you hired me?
MARTY: Don't be absurd, I wasn't about to tell anyone.
MARTY: .This is an illicit romancewe've got to trust each other to be
MARTY: .For richer, for poorer. Don't say that. Your marriages don't work out so hot.
VISSER: Don't say that. Your marriages don't work out so hot.
VISSER: .How did you cover the money?
MARTY: It's taken care of. The less you know about it the better.
MARTY: .I just made a call about that. It'll look fine.
VISSER: ( shaking his head ) I must've gone money simple. This kind of murder.
VISSER: .it's too damn risky.
MARTY: Then you shouldn't have done it. Can't have it both ways.
MARTY: .Count it if you want.
VISSER: ( reaching into his coat ) Nah, I trust ya.
VISSER: Who looks stupid now.
RAY'S POV: As he flips through the papers; bills, receipts, no money.
RAY: ( muttering )
RAY'S POV: Light is spilling out from under the door to Marty's office.
RAY: He reaches the door and knocks sharply. No answer. He turns the knob.
RAY: The door is locked. We hear the muffled whir of the ceiling fan inside. A pause. Ray withdraws a ring of keys from his pocket and uses one on the door. The door swings open. Over his shoulder we see Marty, still at his desk, his back to us. On foot is still propped on the desk.
RAY: What's the matter, you deaf?
RAY'S POV: There is a dark pool of blood under Marty's chair.
RAY'S POV: There is a glinting silver circle in the darkness under the safe. It is the business end of the revolver that Ray half- stumbled over, half-kicked.
THE GUN: It is Abby's revolver.
WIDER: The desk, Marty behind it, Ray straightening behind him. Ray looks from the gun to Marty, slowly sets the gun down on the desk. A pause. He begins to hoist Marty from the chair. There is noise from the bar, as of someone entering. Ray reacts.
THE DOOR: Separating the bar and back office. Ray hurries to it.
RAY'S POV: The incinerator belching fire and smoke. We hear its distant roar over the bar song. We hear the car door slam.
EVANGELIST: so there were three signs, the second of which is Famine, this famine which I have already pointed out is devastatin' Africa and the Indian subcontinent. And the third of these signs is earthquakes. Now I don't know why he threw that in but if you talk to a geologist, and I've talked to many, he'll tell you that earthquake activity
RAY'S POV: Marty is lying inert.
EVANGELIST: has increased almost eighty percent in the past two years, and what's more, in two years' time we'll be experiencin' what's knows as the Jupiter Effect
EVANGELIST: wherein all the planets of the known universe will be aligned up causin' an incredible buildup of destructive gravitational force. Now in Matthew Chapter Six, Verse Eighteen the Lord out and tells us that these are the signs by which we shall know that He is at our door. There are many good people disagree with me, but it's my belief that this Antichrist is alive today and livin' somewhere in Europe, in that ten- nation alliance I spoke of, bein' groomed for his task
RAY'S POV: Marty is crawling up the road on his hands and knees, leaving a trail of blood. The headlights of Ray's car give a fantastically long shadow.
RAY'S POV: Marty, crawling.
RAY'S FEET: He jerks his foot away, breaking Marty's grasp.
RAY'S POV: Headlight beams, although not yet the headlights themselves, are visible a long way down the road.
SIDE SHOT: Of Marty's gun hand as Ray slowly sinks down on the lip of the grave, bracing himself with the shovel. His hand reaches for Marty's. Marty squeezes off two more empty chambers. Ray's hand slowly closes over the barrel of the gun. As he pulls, the gun slides from Marty's fingers.
HIS POV: A house. Quite near by. The house and its perfect green rectangle of lawn are set incongruously in the middle of the open field.
HIGH SHOT: House, car and grave. Ray throws the shovel into the car, gets in, and turns the ignition. The engine coughs weakly and dies. He tries again. Same result. One more time. The engine coughs, sputters, and fires to life. The car runs over the grave and rattles on across the rutted field towards the highway in the distance.
RAY'S POV: The car is closer. It's headlights wink again.
HIGH ANGLE: The station hasn't opened yet. Ray's car, empty, stands alone in the lot. Flat prairie stretches to the horizon. No movement in the frame. At the cut we hear the faint sound of a phone ringing through a receiver. After four or five rings the phone is picked up and we begin a slow crane down.
ABBY: ( through phone; sleepily ) ( present; very hoarsely ) Abby. you all right?
RAY: ( present; very hoarsely ) Abby. you all right?
ABBY: Ray?. What time is it?
RAY: I don't know. It's early. I love
ABBY: .You all right?
RAY: I don't know. I better get off now.
ABBY: Okay, see ya. Thanks, Ray.
RAY: The phone disconnects.
ABBY: ( sleepily ) You're bad.
RAY: You're bad.
ABBY: I said you're bad.
RAY: I said you're bad.
ABBY: ( smiling ) .You're bad too.
RAY: We're both bad.
FADE OUT: As we hear the click of a pull-string the camera is dropping: down past an orange safe light, down the length of the string, down to a metal darkroom tray where two short strips of negative are burning. Visser's hand and yellow sleeve cuff ( now orange ) enter frame, with an 8 x 10 black-and-white photograph. The photograph is dropped into the tray. As it burns we see that it is the same picture of Abby's and Ray's "corpses" as Visser showed Marty, except that in this print the bullet holes and blood are less convincingly brushed in. Another print is dropped into the tray and ignites. In this one we see bullet holes but no blood. A third print is dropped in and ignites. It is the original undoctored shot of Abby and Ray asleep in bed. Visser's hands enter frame holding the picture-envelope that he took away from Marty's office. Visser rips it in half and is about to drop it into the tray, but stops abruptly. There is posterboard, not a photograph, peeking out of the torn envelope. Visser's hands pull the two halves of the placard from the envelope and fit them together. The stenciled 8 x 10 placard says: "All Employees Must Wash Hands Before Resuming Work."
BLACK: As we hear the click of a pull-string the camera is dropping: down past an orange safe light, down the length of the string, down to a metal darkroom tray where two short strips of negative are burning. Visser's hand and yellow sleeve cuff ( now orange ) enter frame, with an 8 x 10 black-and-white photograph. The photograph is dropped into the tray. As it burns we see that it is the same picture of Abby's and Ray's "corpses" as Visser showed Marty, except that in this print the bullet holes and blood are less convincingly brushed in. Another print is dropped into the tray and ignites. In this one we see bullet holes but no blood. A third print is dropped in and ignites. It is the original undoctored shot of Abby and Ray asleep in bed. Visser's hands enter frame holding the picture-envelope that he took away from Marty's office. Visser rips it in half and is about to drop it into the tray, but stops abruptly. There is posterboard, not a photograph, peeking out of the torn envelope. Visser's hands pull the two halves of the placard from the envelope and fit them together. The stenciled 8 x 10 placard says: "All Employees Must Wash Hands Before Resuming Work."
ABBY: Emerging from the bathroom. Her voice has a flat echo in the bare apartment.
ABBY: Why didn't you get into bed?
RAY: ( groggy ) I didn't think I could sleep. I'm surprised you could. Are you all
ABBY: She walks over and sits down on the bed.
ABBY: .You called me this morning.
RAY: Abby looks at him, expecting more. Finally:
RAY: .I just wanted to let you know that everything was all right. I took care of everything. Now all we have to do is keep our heads.
ABBY: .What do you mean?
RAY: I know about it, Abby. I went to the bar last night.
ABBY: What happened?Was Meurice there?
RAY: He laughs shortly.
RAY: .He didn't see me, though. Nobody saw me.
RAY: .Is it cold in here?
ABBY: Well. what happened?
RAY: I cleaned it all up, but that ain't .What's important is what we do now; I mean we can't go around half- cocked. What we need is some time to think about this, figure it out. .Anyway, we got some time now. But we gotta be smart.
RAY: .What's important is what we do now; I mean we can't go around half- cocked. What we need is some time to think about this, figure it out. .Anyway, we got some time now. But we gotta be smart.
RAY: .Anyway, we got some time now. But we gotta be smart.
ABBY: Abby, never point a gun at anyone unless you're gonna shoot him. And when you shoot him you better make sure he's dead.
RAY: Abby, never point a gun at anyone unless you're gonna shoot him. And when you shoot him you better make sure he's dead.
RAY: .because if he's not dead he's gonna get up and try and kill you.
RAY: .That's the only thing they told us in the service that was worth a goddamnWhere the hell's my What the hell happened, Ray? That ain't important. What's important is that we did it. That's the only thing that matters. We both did it for each other. .That's what's important.
ABBY: What the hell happened, Ray? That ain't important. What's important is that we did it. That's the only thing that matters. We both did it for each other. .That's what's important.
RAY: That ain't important. What's important is that we did it. That's the only thing that matters. We both did it for each other. .That's what's important.
RAY: .That's what's important.
ABBY: I don't know what you're talking
ABBY: I. I mean what're you talking about, Ray? I haven't done anything funny.
RAY: .What was that?
ABBY: ( rapidly ) Ray, I mean you ain't even acting like yourself. First you call me at five in the A.M. saying all kinds of nice things over the telephone and then you come charging in here scaring me half to death without even telling me what it is I'm supposed to be scared of. I gotta tell you it's extremely rattling.
RAY: We track toward him, isolating him against the window. He is perfectly still. For a long time he can't speak.
RAY: ( quietly ) .Don't lie to me, Abby
ABBY: How can I be lying if I don't even
ABBY: .I mean if you and him had a fight or something, I don't care, as long as you.
RAY: .Pick it up.
ABBY: Through the phone we hear only the rhythmic whir of a ceiling fan. Abby shifts the phone to her other ear, listening hard. It is the same sound we heard earlier when she picked up the phone at Ray's house. As before, the line clicks dead.
ABBY: ( looking at Ray ) .Welp, that was him.
RAY: There is silence again.
ABBY: There is silence again.
ABBY: .What's going on with you two?
RAY: ( quietly ) All right.
RAY: .You can call him back, whoever it
RAY: .I'll get out of your way.
ABBY: Watching. We hear the door open.
WOMAN'S VOICE: Hi Meurice, this is Helene, Helene Trend, and I'm calling 'cause I wanna know just what the hell that remark you made about Sylvia's supposed to
WOMAN'S VOICE: .She says you're full of shit and frankly I believe her. And hey, I love you too. Sure. Anyway, you better call me soon because I'm going to South America tonightyou know,
MARTY'S VOICE: ( barking ) Listen asshole, you know who this is. I just got back from Corpus and there's a lot of money missing from the safe.
MARTY'S VOICE: .I'm not saying you took it but the place was your responsibility and I told you to keep an eye on your asshole friend. Don'tuh, don't come to the bar tonight, I've got a meeting. But tomorrow I want to have a word with you, and with Rayif you can find him.
WOMAN'S VOICE: Meurice, where the hell have you been? I
RAY'S FINGER: Pressing into a dark stain in the upholstery of the back seat of his car. When he raises it the fingertip is redthe seat still wet with blood.
MEURICE: I hope you're planning on leaving Got a problem, Meurice?
RAY: ( his back to Meurice; arranging the sheet ) Got a problem, Meurice?
MEURICE: No, you do, cowboy. You been to the
RAY: You shouldn't have taken the money. .Look at me man, I'm serious. You broke in the bar and ripped off the
MEURICE: You shouldn't have taken the money. .Look at me man, I'm serious. You broke in the bar and ripped off the
MEURICE: .Look at me man, I'm serious. You broke in the bar and ripped off the
MEURICE: .Abby warned me you were gonna make trouble. Trouble with you is, you're too fucking obvious; the only ones with the combination are me and .and Abby. Maybe. But as far as I'm concerned that only leaves one fucking possibility.
MEURICE: .and Abby. Maybe. But as far as I'm concerned that only leaves one fucking possibility.
RAY: ( tonelessly ) What's that?
MEURICE: Those things are nothing but coffin
MEURICE: .Look. Personally I don't give a shit. I know Marty's a hard-on but you gotta do something. I don't know; give the money back, say you're sorry, or get the fuck out of here, or
MEURICE: .It's very humiliating, preaching about this shit.
MEURICE: I'm not laughing at this, Ray Bob, so you know it's no fucking joke.
ABBY: ( quietly )
ABBY'S POV: Marty's fish, now half-decayed, still lie on the desk. Some of the desk drawers stand open, with some of their contents strewn across the surface of the desk.
ABBY'S POV: Shards of broken glass lie on the floor.
ABBY'S POV: The pane of the back-door window closest to the knob has been shattered from the outside, scattering broken glass into the office.
ABBY'S POV: On the standing safe behind the desk lies a white towel. Abby's hand enters frame ans picks up the towel. In slow motion a hammer that's been wrapped inside slips out of the towel, falls end-over-end, hits the floor with a dull BACK TO ABBY Stooping down to pick up the hammer. At eye level as she stoops down is the combination dial to the safe. The dial has been battered by the hammer. Abby looks from the hammer to the floor under the desk chair.
ABBY'S POV: Blood stains.
ABBY: Staring down at the floor. She rises and looks at the desk. As she rises we hear glass under her feet.
ABBY'S POV: The dead fish. Beyond them, on the floor around the desk, broken glass.
ABBY'S POV: The dead fish.
ABBY'S POV: Across the darkened apartment we see the curtainless windows, and beyond them, across the lamplit street, the facade of the opposite building.
FADE OUT: FADE IN: SAME LONG SHOT ABBY IN BED She opens her eyes, lies still for a moment, coughs. She gets out of bed and walks across the still dark apartment to the bathroom. She shuts the bathroom door.
BATHROOM: Abby looks at herself in the mirror above the sink, then turns on the tap water. From a neighboring apartment we hear a dull rhythmic thumping on the wall. She pauses, listens for a moment, then starts to splash water on her face. From somewhere offscreen we hear the sharp sound of glass shattering. It reverberates for a moment, then dies. Abby looks up at the bathroom door. We hear a scraping at the lock of her apartment door. Abby listens. Suddenly we hear the lock springing open, and the front door swinging on its hinges.
ABBY: There is no answer. After a moment we hear bedsprings creak in the next room. Abby opens the bathroom door and walks MAIN ROOM A shaft of light slices across the floor from the open bathroom door. Broken glass glints on the floor. In the semi- darkness we can see that someone is sitting on the bed. The person looks up. It is Marty. Abby recoils.
MAIN ROOM: A shaft of light slices across the floor from the open bathroom door. Broken glass glints on the floor. In the semi- darkness we can see that someone is sitting on the bed. The person looks up. It is Marty. Abby recoils.
MARTY: Lover-boy oughta lock his door.
MARTY: I love you.
MARTY: .That's a stupid thing to say,
ABBY: I. I love you too.
MARTY: No. You're just saying that because you're scared.
MARTY: .You left your weapon behind.
MARTY: He'll kill you too.
ABBY: Bolts upright in bead with a muffled groan. Sweat pours down her face. She brushes a drop of sweat from her eye and looks ABBY'S POV Moonlight glints through the windows across the hardwood floor. Through the windows we can see the facade of the opposite building. The apartment is dark and still, just as we left it before she fell asleep.
ABBY'S POV: Moonlight glints through the windows across the hardwood floor. Through the windows we can see the facade of the opposite building. The apartment is dark and still, just as we left it before she fell asleep.
ABBY'S POV: The window.
ABBY: Ray starts and looks toward the window, squinting.
ABBY: .Where is everything?
RAY: In the trunk.
RAY: .In the car.
ABBY: .You leaving?
RAY: Isn't that what you want?
RAY: Wanna come with me?
ABBY: .But first I gotta know what What do you want to know?
RAY: What do you want to know?
ABBY: You broke into the bar. You wanted to get your money. You and Marty had a fight. Something happened.
ABBY: .I don't know, wasn't it you? Maybe a burglar broke in, and you found
RAY: With your gun?.
RAY: .Nobody broke in, Abby. I'll tell you the truth.
RAY: .Truth is, I've felt sick the last couple of days. Can't eat. Can't sleep. When I try to I. Abby.
RAY: .The truth is. he was alive when I buried him.
MEURICE: Abby. What's the matter?
ABBY: I. I'm sorry, Meurice. I gotta talk to you. Can I come in?
MEURICE: Yeah. yeah, come in.
MEURICE: .but I gotta tell ya.
MEURICE: .I'm retired.
MEURICE: Jesus, I got a hangover. Want a drink?
ABBY: No, I
MEURICE: Well I do.
MEURICE: .For you I answer the door. If you wanna stay here, that's fine. But I'm retired.
ABBY: Something happened with Marty and
MEURICE: ( sharply )
MEURICE: .Let me ask you one question.
MEURICE: .Why do you think I'm retired.
MEURICE: .Ray stole a shitload of money from Marty. Until both of 'em calm down I'm not getting involved.
ABBY: No Meurice, it's worse than that. Something really happened, I think Marty's dead
MEURICE: What?! Did Ray tell you that?
ABBY: Sort of.
MEURICE: That's total bullshit. Marty called me after he was jacked up.
MEURICE: .I mean, I don't know where he is, but he ain't dead.
ABBY: You don't look too good. You sleep last night?
MEURICE: You don't look too good. You sleep last night?
ABBY: Meurice, you gotta help me.
MEURICE: All right. Just sit tight. Try to get some sleep.
MEURICE: .I'll find Marty, find out what's going on.
RAY'S POV: The headlights of an approaching car materialize in the fog. The car passes with a roar. Up ahead a traffic light is turning amber.
RAY'S POV: Another car is stopped just behind him, the fog floating up past its headlights. The headlights halate in the fog; none of the rest of the car is visible.
RAY'S POV: The light is just turning from red to green.
RAY'S POV: The headlights of the other car remain motionless behind him. The car makes no move to pass.
RAY'S POV: Green fog floats past the green light.
RAY'S POV: The other car is still motionless. We hear the muted rumble of its engine.
RAY'S POV: The other car remains still for a moment. White fog floats up beyond the red fog created by Ray's brake lights. Finally the car pulls out slowly to the left to pass.
RAY'S POV: As the car pulls out into the light from the intersection and Ray's headlights, we see that it is a battered green Volkswagon. First the car itself, and then its red tail lights, disappear into the fog.
MARTY'S OFFICE: Somewhere offscreen a light is switched on and we are looking in close shot at the dead fish. The sound of the fly is louder with the cut.
RAY'S POV: As he flips through the photographs. The first four are Ray and Abby in the motel room bed. The last is a mounted 8 x 10: Abby and Marty on a Gulf beach.
RAY'S POV: His and Abby's corpses.
MARTY'S KITCHEN: As Meurice enters and throws an overhead light. The white room is bathed in bright, shadowless light. As Meurice steps into the kitchen his foot strikes something on the floor below frame, which clatters hollowly away.
MEURICE'S POV: The long shadowy hall. We hear panting.
MEURICE: THE HALLWAY A form starts to materialize in the shadows.
THE HALLWAY: A form starts to materialize in the shadows.
MEURICE: Taking a step back.
HIS POV: The dog bounding down the hallway. Its panting has become a low growl.
HIS POV: Opal snarling, leaping.
MEURICE: .Something pretty fucking weird is going on. Put your coat on and I'll drop you at home. But don't talk to either of 'em until I do. And don't worry. Believe me. These things always have a logical explanation. Usually.
ABBY'S POV: The splintered top half of the cue stick on the coffee table.
RAY: ( abruptly ) Turn it off.
ABBY: EXT. ROOF OF FACING APARTMENT BUILDING From the roof of the building across the street we are looking down on the facade of Abby's building. Most of its windows are dark, but in a brightly lit fourth-floor window we can clearly see Abby and Ray. A man is on the roof in the foreground, hitching a rifle to his shoulder.
RAY: Just turn it off.
RAY: ( answering a question ) No curtains on the windows. I think someone's watching.
ABBY: I think someone's watching.
RAY: I think someone's watching.
ABBY: So what'll they see?
RAY: Just leave it off. He can see in.
ABBY: ( abruptly ) If you do anything the neighbors'll
RAY: You think.
RAY: .Abby. I meant it. when I
ABBY: .I love you too. Because you're scared.
RAY: Because you're scared.
THE WINDOW: It has a gaping black hole. The sound of shattering glass still reverberates in the apartment. Small shards of glass chink down from the window and shatter on the floor.
ABBY: Scrambles into a corner at the window end of the room. The only sound is her heavy breathing. She looks over at Ray, then up at the bulb on the ceiling.
ABBY'S POV: Ray is sprawled on the floor in a pool of blood and broken BACK TO ABBY She reaches down and pulls off one of her shoes. She throws it at the ceiling bulb. We hear the bulb shatter and the room goes black. Abby rises and makes her way cautiously across the glass- littered floor toward Ray. She stoops over him.
ABBY: She winces and almost loses her balance as we hear a piece of glass crunching under her bare floor. She turns and moves to the front door, favoring one foot, and throws the door Abby lurches from her apartment and pounds on the neighboring door. No answer. She pounds on the door across the hall.
HALLWAY: Abby lurches from her apartment and pounds on the neighboring door. No answer. She pounds on the door across the hall.
ABBY: ( groping for the words, in Spanish ) No noyou don't understand
ABBY'S APARTMENT: As she enters and slams the door behind her. She scrabbles at the lock, finally manages to get it shut, then turns and looks frantically around.
ABBY'S POV: Ray is lying still in the darkness. We can hear footsteps approaching up the hallway. Abby enters frame and kneels down next to Ray. She fumbles around him briefly in the darkness. The doorknob rattles. Abby freezes, listening, trying to control her breath. After a moment we hear a scraping at the Abby moves to the bathroom adjoining the main room and shuts the door behind her.
BATHROOM: It is very small. Abby presses her palms against the door and slowly eases her ear against the door to listen. The scraping in the apartment door lock continues. Sweat streams down Abby's face. She brushes a drop from her eye. We hear the snap of the lock springing open, and the front door swinging on its hinges.
ABBY'S POV: A sheer drop to the narrow backyard of the building four stories below. Next to Abby's window is another window, separated from hers only by the breadth of the wall, that separates the two apartments.
ABBY'S APARTMENT: Visser hunches, hands on knees, over Ray, who lies on the floor out of frame.
VISSER: ( grimly ) All right.
VISSER: .You got some of my personal .One of you does.
VISSER: .One of you does.
VISSER: .I don't know what the hell you two thought you were gonna pull.
BATHROOM: Abby has drawn her head back from the bathroom window. She moves back to the door and braces herself against it.
ABBY'S APARTMENT: Visser straightens up from Ray's body. He drops something to the floor, out of frame, that lands with a thud. He goes over to the light switch on the wall and flips it back and forth. No light. He goes over to the brass lamp, sets it upright, tries its switch. Again nothing. He disappears into the kitchenette as we hold on its open doorway. After a moment we hear a refrigerator hum as a cold blue light plays in the doorway. There is the rattle of a can being pulled off the refrigerator rack, and the snap of its pull-tab being opened. After a couple of audible slurps we hear the can go back on the rack and, as the blue light disappears, we hear the refrigerator door close. Visser reappears in the doorway. He surveys the room, fixes on the bathroom door, goes over, turns the knob. The door swings open. He walks in.
BATHROOM: Visser looks around the cramped space. The shower curtain is drawn. He casually draws it back. The shower is empty. He goes to the window and leans out.
VISSER'S POV: The sheer drop below; the other window to one side.
ADJACENT APARTMENT: Abby back slowly from the window, staring at the hand. From the ground below we hear the faint and echoing sounds of the shards of glass shattering against pavement.
ABBY'S POV: A second hole has opened in the wall, letting through a second shaft of light. Four more sharp reports in rapid succession: With each gun blast a bright circle opens and a new shaft of light penetrates the dark apartment. Finally we hear the CLICK of an empty chamber, and the clatter of the empty gun being dropped to the floor of the bathroom next door.
HALLWAY: As Abby emerges from the adjacent apartment. She stops and looks down the hall.
ABBY'S POV: The stairway is at the far end of the hall. The door of her own darkened apartment stands slightly ajar.
ADJACENT APARTMENT: CLOSE SHOT THE WALL The bullet holes strobing. The pounding, more purposeful now, grows louder and more intense. Finally, with a crash, Visser's fist penetrates the wall in an explosion of light and dust.
HALLWAY: We pull Abby as she limps hesitantly down the hall.
ADJACENT APARTMENT: CLOSE SHOT VISSER'S HAND Waving aimlessly through the ambient dust. He is blindly groping for the silland the knife that pins his other hand. His outstretched middle finger just grazes the handle of the ABBY'S HALLWAY / APARTMENT Pulling Abby as she draws even with the door of her apartment.
ABBY'S POV: Her pearl-handled revolver sits on the shelf just inside the door, where Ray left it. It catches the light from the hall.
ADJACENT APARTMENT: EXTREME CLOSE SHOT VISSER'S FINGERTIPS The side of his middle finger rubs against the knife handle; the tip of his index finger barely touches it. Visser's fingers are trembling, indicating that his arm is stretched to its uttermost. A surge against the wall gives his fingers another inch or so and they curl around the handle of the knife.
ABBY'S APARTMENT: CLOSE SHOT ABBY As she steps in from the hallway to pick up the gun. She looks around the apartment.
ABBY'S POV: The window of the apartment, its glass now completely gone, lets in streetlight. Ray's corpse is a dark form in the middle of the floor. A bright shaft of light slices across the room from offscreen. It glints on the shards of glass that litter the floor, just as in Abby's dream.
BATHROOM: CLOSE SHOT VISSER As he slowly, quietly draws his hand in from the hole in the wall. He is holding the knife. He turns slowly to face the door, listening.
ABBY'S APARTMENT: CLOSE SHOT ABBY She steadies herself against the wall and turns to look toward the bathroom.
ABBY'S POV: The bathroom door stands slightly ajar. The interior of the bathroom is a bright band in the shadowy recesses of the back of the apartment.
BATHROOM: CLOSE SHOT VISSER Moving quietly toward the door.
ABBY'S APARTMENT: CLOSE SHOT ABBY Staring, almost transfixed, at the bathroom door. She raises the gun, trembling, and trains it on the band of light.
ABBY'S POV: Visser's shadow falls across the crack in the doorway.
ABBY'S POV: With the roar of the gun, a small circle of light opens in the door. As the door waffles under the impact, we hear Visser collapsing behind it.
HER POV: The cracked bathroom door spilling light.
ABBY: .I ain't afraid of you, Marty.
HER POV: The bathroom door. Quiet for a long moment. Then, from inside the bathroom, we hear laughter.
BATHROOM: Visser lies on his back, his head underneath the bathroom His good hand is pressed against his belly, which rises and falls with his heavy breathing. Blood seeps out between his He is smiling.
VISSER: .If I see him, I'll sure give him the message.
HIS POV: The underside of the sink, its convoluted chrome works beading Looking, with mild interest.
VISSER: Looking, with mild interest.
HIS POV: A condensed droplet trickles down the chrome. Directly overhead, it hangs for a moment from the lowest joint of the pipe. It fattens, wavers, waversand falls, spelling.
RHODES: Hey there, stranger! What can I do you for?
RAY: I need a room.
KYLE: He needs a room, Dusty.
RHODES: I reckon I can hear him. .Room rate's eight sixty-six a day plus sales tax, plus extra for the TV option.
RAY: How much extra?
KYLE: ( calling out ) He wants the TV option, Dusty.
RHODES: I reckon I can hear him. TV option, that's a dollar twenty, makes nine eighty-six plus tax.
KYLE: ( calling out ) Tell him the channels, Dusty.
RHODES: Channels, we got two and six. Two don't come in so hot.
RAY: Just a room then.
KYLE: ( calling out ) He don't want the option, Dusty.
RHODES: I reckon I heard the man.
RAY: ( after shooting Kyle an irritated glance ) Does he work here?
KYLE: ( calling out ) Sure don't.
RHODES: See, Wednesday's the special on RC Cola. I don't know if I explained about the TV option. If there's a TV in the room, you got to pay the And how many room got TV, Dusty?
KYLE: ( calling out ) And how many room got TV, Dusty?
RHODES: Ever durned one.
RAY: ( gamely ) Okay, I'll take the TV option.
RHODES: Well see the thing about that is, we're booked.
