CLOSER: We realize the dots are people. Workers swinging long steel machetes in slow methodical rhythm. WHOOSH. WHOOSH. WE SEE the South American Indian MEN clearly now. Their tar stained teeth. Their gaunt faces riddled with crow's feet. Their jaws chewing away on huge wads of coca leaves as they collect the harvest.
REGISTRATION WOMAN: It's George's turn but he doesn't hear it. "Twenty years of schooling and they put you on a day shift." The words hit him like a tone of bricks as he continues to stare at his own
GEORGE: There's something out there for me, Dad. Something different. Something free form, you know? Something for me, and college just isn't it.
FRED: That's too bad. You would have been the first one in the family.
GEORGE: I know.
FRED: Alright. You want me to get your old job back? Because I could, you know, I could put in that word.
GEORGE: No, Dad. I don't want to.I mean, I just don't want. It's obvious to Fred that his son doesn't want to be like What are you going to do?
FRED: What are you going to do?
GEORGE: I'm going to California.
GIRLS: You guys need some help? George and Tuna share a look.
TUNA: I don't know about you, but I think we're gonna like it here.
WOMAN #1: I'm a flight attendant.
WOMAN #2: I'm a flight attendant.
WOMAN #3: I'm a flight attendant. The weed comes out and is passed around. Pipes. Joints. Bongs. In SLOW MOTION, Barbara takes a huge hit of grass, grabs George's face, french kissing him, and giving him a huge shotgun.
TUNA: Hey, wake up. Come on, you two lovebirds. Hurry, I want to show you George and Barbara shake cobwebs out and stumble into the kitchen to find Tuna holding a brown paper shopping bag.
GEORGE: Figured what out?
TUNA: You know how we were wondering what we were going to do for money? Being how we don't want to get jobs and whatnot? Well, check this out. Tuna takes the paper bag and empties its contents on the kitchen table. It's a grey mound of stocky, seedy marijuana. Barbara examines the reefer.
BARBARA: Tuna, this is crap.
TUNA: I know it's not the greatest. It's It's garbage.
BARBARA: It's garbage.
GEORGE: It's oregano. You got ripped off, pal. What are you gonna do with all this?
TUNA: We sell it. I got it all figured out. We make three finger lids and sell them on the beach. We move all of it. We've made ourselves a hundred bucks. Or a lot of weed for our head. What do you think? Not bad, huh? I got the baggies and everything.
BARBARA: You can't sell this to your friends.
TUNA: Man. Fuck you guys. I have this great idea and you guys have to be all Look, if you really wanna score some dope, I got the guy.
BARBARA: Look, if you really wanna score some dope, I got the guy.
GEORGE: Are you sure this guy is cool?
BARBARA: You'll see for yourself.
TUNA: A beauty parlor for men? Sounds pretty They walk in.
GEORGE: Nothing like this back home.
BARBARA: DEREK FOREAL is a curious man. Daringly effeminate, especially for the sixties, he is always surrounded by beautiful women. As he sees Barbara, he stops his haircut and runs to embrace her.
DEREK: Derek's female entourage rush over as well. Kisses all George and Tuna stick out there hands.
GEORGE: Tuna, oh my. Enchante, George. Barbie, he's yummy. He looks like a Ken doll. Oooh, Ken and Barbie. It's perfect. Alright, girls, give me five minutes. Derek makes dismissing gestures and the girls scatter.
TUNA: Tuna, oh my. Enchante, George. Barbie, he's yummy. He looks like a Ken doll. Oooh, Ken and Barbie. It's perfect. Alright, girls, give me five minutes. Derek makes dismissing gestures and the girls scatter.
DEREK: Tuna, oh my. Enchante, George. Barbie, he's yummy. He looks like a Ken doll. Oooh, Ken and Barbie. It's perfect. Alright, girls, give me five minutes. Derek makes dismissing gestures and the girls scatter.
GEORGE: We want some grass.
DEREK: I know what you want. But, first of all, are you cops?
GEORGE: Because if you are, you have to tell me. If not, it's entrapment.
DEREK: Because if you are, you have to tell me. If not, it's entrapment.
GEORGE: We're not cops. We're from Massachusettes. I mean, does he look like a cop?
DEREK: I guess not. Okay. You know, you're very lucky you're friends of Barbie's. If you weren't, I'd never talk to you. Derek pulls a television-sized brick of quality marijuana out from under a sink and sets it down in front of George.
GEORGE: What the fuck is that?
DEREK: It's your grass.
TUNA: Wow. That's more than we had in mind.
DEREK: I don't nickel and dime. You want it or George and Tuna look at each other.
GEORGE: We'll take it.
GEORGE: This is it for me.
BARBARA: What is?
GEORGE: Just everything. You. California. The beach. This spot right here. I feel like I belong here, you know? It just feels right.
BARBARA: You happy, baby?
GEORGE: Yeah. I am.
REGISTRATION WOMAN: It's George's turn but he doesn't hear it. "Twenty years of schooling and they put you on a day shift." The words hit him like a tone of bricks as he continues to stare at his own
GEORGE: There's something out there for me, Dad. Something different. Something free form, you know? Something for me, and college just isn't it.
FRED: That's too bad. You would have been the first one in the family.
GEORGE: I know.
FRED: Alright. You want me to get your old job back? Because I could, you know, I could put in that word.
GEORGE: No, Dad. I don't want to.I mean, I just don't want. It's obvious to Fred that his son doesn't want to be like What are you going to do?
FRED: What are you going to do?
GEORGE: I'm going to California.
GIRLS: You guys need some help? George and Tuna share a look.
TUNA: I don't know about you, but I think we're gonna like it here.
WOMAN #1: I'm a flight attendant.
WOMAN #2: I'm a flight attendant.
WOMAN #3: I'm a flight attendant. The weed comes out and is passed around. Pipes. Joints. Bongs. In SLOW MOTION, Barbara takes a huge hit of grass, grabs George's face, french kissing him, and giving him a huge shotgun.
TUNA: Hey, wake up. Come on, you two lovebirds. Hurry, I want to show you George and Barbara shake cobwebs out and stumble into the kitchen to find Tuna holding a brown paper shopping bag.
GEORGE: Figured what out?
TUNA: You know how we were wondering what we were going to do for money? Being how we don't want to get jobs and whatnot? Well, check this out. Tuna takes the paper bag and empties its contents on the kitchen table. It's a grey mound of stocky, seedy marijuana. Barbara examines the reefer.
BARBARA: Tuna, this is crap.
TUNA: I know it's not the greatest. It's It's garbage.
BARBARA: It's garbage.
GEORGE: It's oregano. You got ripped off, pal. What are you gonna do with all this?
TUNA: We sell it. I got it all figured out. We make three finger lids and sell them on the beach. We move all of it. We've made ourselves a hundred bucks. Or a lot of weed for our head. What do you think? Not bad, huh? I got the baggies and everything.
BARBARA: You can't sell this to your friends.
TUNA: Man. Fuck you guys. I have this great idea and you guys have to be all Look, if you really wanna score some dope, I got the guy.
BARBARA: Look, if you really wanna score some dope, I got the guy.
GEORGE: Are you sure this guy is cool?
BARBARA: You'll see for yourself.
TUNA: A beauty parlor for men? Sounds pretty They walk in.
GEORGE: Nothing like this back home.
BARBARA: DEREK FOREAL is a curious man. Daringly effeminate, especially for the sixties, he is always surrounded by beautiful women. As he sees Barbara, he stops his haircut and runs to embrace her.
DEREK: Derek's female entourage rush over as well. Kisses all George and Tuna stick out there hands.
GEORGE: Tuna, oh my. Enchante, George. Barbie, he's yummy. He looks like a Ken doll. Oooh, Ken and Barbie. It's perfect. Alright, girls, give me five minutes. Derek makes dismissing gestures and the girls scatter.
TUNA: Tuna, oh my. Enchante, George. Barbie, he's yummy. He looks like a Ken doll. Oooh, Ken and Barbie. It's perfect. Alright, girls, give me five minutes. Derek makes dismissing gestures and the girls scatter.
DEREK: Tuna, oh my. Enchante, George. Barbie, he's yummy. He looks like a Ken doll. Oooh, Ken and Barbie. It's perfect. Alright, girls, give me five minutes. Derek makes dismissing gestures and the girls scatter.
GEORGE: We want some grass.
DEREK: I know what you want. But, first of all, are you cops?
GEORGE: Because if you are, you have to tell me. If not, it's entrapment.
DEREK: Because if you are, you have to tell me. If not, it's entrapment.
GEORGE: We're not cops. We're from Massachusettes. I mean, does he look like a cop?
DEREK: I guess not. Okay. You know, you're very lucky you're friends of Barbie's. If you weren't, I'd never talk to you. Derek pulls a television-sized brick of quality marijuana out from under a sink and sets it down in front of George.
GEORGE: What the fuck is that?
DEREK: It's your grass.
TUNA: Wow. That's more than we had in mind.
DEREK: I don't nickel and dime. You want it or George and Tuna look at each other.
GEORGE: We'll take it.
GEORGE: This is it for me.
BARBARA: What is?
GEORGE: Just everything. You. California. The beach. This spot right here. I feel like I belong here, you know? It just feels right.
BARBARA: You happy, baby?
GEORGE: Yeah. I am.
TUNA: Look what the cat dragged in.
GEORGE: Holy shit, Dulli. What the hell are you doing here?
KEVIN: Well, I'll tell you. I was walking down the beach, minding my business, when who did I see but this fucking guy. I didn't know you guys were living in Yeah, but what are you doing out here?
GEORGE: Yeah, but what are you doing out here?
KEVIN: I'm on vacation. On my way back to This calls for a joint. You want to do the honors?
GEORGE: This calls for a joint. You want to do the honors?
KEVIN: No, man. I'm too fucked up.
TUNA: Nice weed, huh?
KEVIN: Fuck yeah. I never seen nothing like it. I'm fucking wasted.
GEORGE: Right on.
KEVIN: G-d, I'm stoned. I'm stoned. I'm I wish there was shit like this back Shit, yeah. Do you know how much money I could make if I had this stuff back No shit, Kevin?
GEORGE: I wish there was shit like this back Shit, yeah. Do you know how much money I could make if I had this stuff back No shit, Kevin?
KEVIN: I wish there was shit like this back Shit, yeah. Do you know how much money I could make if I had this stuff back No shit, Kevin?
GEORGE: Shit, yeah. Do you know how much money I could make if I had this stuff back No shit, Kevin?
KEVIN: Shit, yeah. Do you know how much money I could make if I had this stuff back No shit, Kevin?
TUNA: No shit, Kevin?
KEVIN: That's right.
GEORGE: When there's something to move, it's too easy not to. Do you know how many colleges are in a twenty mile radius? U. Mass, Amherst, B.U..
KEVIN: When there's something to move, it's too easy not to. Do you know how many colleges are in a twenty mile radius? U. Mass, Amherst, B.U..
TUNA: Smith. Hampshire..
KEVIN: Right. And Holyoke. There are a hundred thousand rich kids with their parents' money to spend, but there's never anything available. Nothing good, anyway. I'm paying four hundred dollars for shit.
GEORGE: The way we figure it, Barbara flies to Boston twice a week. Two bags per flight. Twenty-five pounds in each bag.
DEREK: You're kidding, right? That's a hundred pounds a week.
GEORGE: Yeah, I know, it's a lot of weight.
BARBARA: We're gonna call it California sinsemilla. Sounds exotic.
GEORGE: I'm telling you, Derek, it will sell.
DEREK: I don't know.
GEORGE: Here's the best part. We can charge five-hundred a pound.
DEREK: Come on, George, no one is going to pay It's already been negotiated. It's done. The money is there waiting. Derek looks at Barbara. She nods.
GEORGE: It's already been negotiated. It's done. The money is there waiting. Derek looks at Barbara. She nods.
DEREK: Goodness is right. If you do the math, that's over thirty grand a week profit. I want you to be my partner on this, Derek. Fifty-fifty. That's fifteen thousand a week for you, my friend. In your pocket, free and clear.
GEORGE: Goodness is right. If you do the math, that's over thirty grand a week profit. I want you to be my partner on this, Derek. Fifty-fifty. That's fifteen thousand a week for you, my friend. In your pocket, free and clear.
DEREK: And I only deal with you?
GEORGE: Barbara and me. No one else. Derek thinks about it.
BARBARA: It's gonna work, Derek.
DEREK: I don't know. East coast. Airplanes. It all sounds pretty risky.
GEORGE: She's a flight attendant. They don't check her bags.
BARBARA: Any message?
KEVIN: Keep it coming.
KEVIN: INT. LOGAN AIRPORT - GATE - BOSTON - 1968 The same scene repeated, same things changed again; now Kevin is definitely dressed a little better.
KEVIN: I need more.
BARBARA: What do you want me to do? I can only take two bags, and I can't fly back here I know, but I've got a feeding frenzy on my hands. Tell George this is small potatoes. We're missing out on some serious cash. You tell George. He'll think of something.
KEVIN: I know, but I've got a feeding frenzy on my hands. Tell George this is small potatoes. We're missing out on some serious cash. You tell George. He'll think of something.
KEVIN: Twenty, forty, sixty, eighty, nine. Twenty, forty, sixty, eighty, a thousand. It's all there. Wow. A hundred and twenty-eight thousand Jesus Christ, I'm getting a boner just looking at it. But George isn't paying attention. His wheels are turning.
TUNA: Jesus Christ, I'm getting a boner just looking at it. But George isn't paying attention. His wheels are turning.
KEVIN: What's the matter, George? Something wrong? You look like you just fucked your mother.
TUNA: Cheer up, man. Half this money is ours. We're fucking rich.
GEORGE: It's not enough.
KEVIN: What the fuck are you talking about, The set-up is wrong. We're doing all the legwork, and at the end of the day, we're still paying retail. We're getting middled.
TUNA: What the fuck are you talking about, The set-up is wrong. We're doing all the legwork, and at the end of the day, we're still paying retail. We're getting middled.
GEORGE: The set-up is wrong. We're doing all the legwork, and at the end of the day, we're still paying retail. We're getting middled.
KEVIN: So, we need to get to the source.
GEORGE: So, we need to get to the source.
TUNA: Source? What about Derek?
GEORGE: He's getting middled, too. And Derek's our partner. What's good for us is good for him.
KEVIN: Okay. So we need a source. Where do we Who speaks Spanish?
GEORGE: Who speaks Spanish?
TUNA: This is bullshit, George. We're never going to find anything down there.
KEVIN: You know, he's got a point. We're fucking Americans. We stick out like sore thumbs.
DEREK: I don't think so.
GEORGE: You guys are such babies. You want to go home, go. Me, I'm not going to stop until I find the fucking motherlode.
RADA: Georgie, we're gonna get busted if we keep this up.
GEORGE: We're not gonna get busted.
KEVIN: George, we'll wind up in a Mexican prison getting fucked up the ass by one of Maria's relatives.
MARIA: Hey, fuck you, Dulli. I'm not Mexican. I'm Italian.
BARBARA: You're Italian?
KEVIN: Yeah, right. Gonzales. What is that, As far as I'm concerned, we're on fucking vacation. He grabs Maria, runs and does a huge belly-flop into the water. They all laugh.
TUNA: As far as I'm concerned, we're on fucking vacation. He grabs Maria, runs and does a huge belly-flop into the water. They all laugh.
SANTIAGO: Ramon tells me you are looking for some Yes, I am. Santiago moves to a tarp and pulls it back to reveal many bales of green, seedless sinsemilla.
GEORGE: Yes, I am. Santiago moves to a tarp and pulls it back to reveal many bales of green, seedless sinsemilla.
SANTIAGO: For instance, something like this?
GEORGE: Very nice. I'll take it.
SANTIAGO: Ha ha ha. You are funny. Really, how much will you be needing?
GEORGE: All of it. As much as you've got. A couples thousand pounds. I'll be back in a week with a plane.
SANTIAGO: Listen, Americano, it is very nice to meet you, but maybe we are going too fast. You take a little and then come I don't need a little. I need a lot.
GEORGE: I don't need a little. I need a lot.
SANTIAGO: Marijuana is illegal in my country, and I believe in yours, as well. We must be What if I brought you, let's say, fifty thousand dollars? Would that eliminate some of your concerns?
GEORGE: What if I brought you, let's say, fifty thousand dollars? Would that eliminate some of your concerns?
SANTIAGO: Amigo, you bring me fifty-thousand dollars, and I have no more concerns.
TUNA: I can't believe we're stealing a plane.
KEVIN: Don't be such a pussy.
GEORGE: It's fine. We're not stealing it. We're borrowing it. And try to look natural. We've got company. A MECHANIC working on the adjacent plane is giving them the hairy eyeball.
TUNA: You guys are fucking insane. George reads from a flight manual.
GEORGE: Alright, pull back the throttle. The engine screams.
KEVIN: Relax. I've flown with my old man a million times. And he always told me, the taking off part is easy, it's the landing you've got to worry about.
AMIGOS: Hola, George! Bienvenido! George hands out presents to everyone. He's like Santa Claus, giving gifts to every man, woman and child. They love him. Santiago pumps George's hand.
SANTIAGO: Good to see you, Jorge. You are a man of your word.
GEORGE: Actually, I've got some news. That fifty thousand I promised you, I couldn't get it. George throws Santiago a duffel bag.
GEORGE: Are you sure you want to do this in front of everyone?
DEREK: Don't be ridiculous, these are my George empties the pot all over the floor.
GEORGE: Should we buy it?
BARBARA: Are you kidding?
GEORGE: We'll take it.
MEXICAN BOY: They pose, their arms thrown around each other in camaraderie, and FLASH. The picture freezes and WE DISSOLVE.
ERMINE: I just can't get over the size of that ring. I just love it. Fred, look at it. Tell me you don't love that ring.
FRED: I'm just happy that George has found someone he cares for.
ERMINE: Yes. Of course. But, I'm talking about that ring. It's something else. Let me tell you.
BARBARA: George has exquisite taste.
ERMINE: What is that, two carats? That's got to be two carats.
BARBARA: I don't know.
ERMINE: Yes. It's at least two carats, darling. Treasure it.
FRED: Hard to imagine being able to afford a ring like that on a construction salary. All eyes turn to George, who fumbles.
GEORGE: Well, you know. It's um.
ERMINE: Oh, shut up, Fred. Shut your big fat mouth. You don't buy it all at once. It's called layaway.
FRED: Layaway shmayaway.
ERMINE: That's right. Layaway. Something you wouldn't know anything about, you Who's the cheapskate?
FRED: Who's the cheapskate?
ERMINE: You, you big old tightwad. He still has his communion money. Tell him, George. Tell your father about layaway.
GEORGE: Yeah, layaway.
ERMINE: The boy is happy, Fred. Don't be such a George looks to Barbara, whose nose is bleeding.
FRED: George looks to Barbara, whose nose is bleeding.
GEORGE: Honey, your nose!
BARBARA: Oh my G-d, I'm so sorry.
ERMINE: Barbara, here, take my napkin.
BARBARA: Thanks. I'll be okay.
GEORGE: You wanna split?
BARBARA: Yeah, I don't feel so well.
GEORGE: Okay, guys, we're gonna leave. Let's get the check.
GEORGE: Are you sure you're okay? You're pale.
BARBARA: I feel like shit. Me and my frigging I'm taking you to the doctor when we get home, and I don't want to hear any Would you be bummed out if I didn't go to Chicago with you?
GEORGE: I'm taking you to the doctor when we get home, and I don't want to hear any Would you be bummed out if I didn't go to Chicago with you?
BARBARA: Would you be bummed out if I didn't go to Chicago with you?
GEORGE: No, not at all. Sure. You're right. You fly home and get some rest.
BARBARA: Nice first impression. A nose bleed in front of your parents.
GEORGE: Oh my G-d, how embarrassing were they? I wanted to shoot myself.
BARBARA: Oh, they weren't that bad. I mean, they were kind of cute.
GEORGE: Promise me that we'll never be like them. I don't want to wind up like Relax, baby. We're going to wind up like us.
BARBARA: Relax, baby. We're going to wind up like us.
SUPERIMPOSE: MUG SHOTS of George. Left, right, center. George sits handcuffed to a chair. Piles of marijuana bricks roll past
JUDGE: George Jung, you have been accused of possession of six-hundred and sixty pounds of marijuana with intent to distribute. How do you plead?
JUDGE: By all means.
GEORGE: In all honesty, I don't feel like what I've done is a crime and I think it's illogical and irresponsible for you to sentence me to prison. None of the real criminals of the world ever end up behind bars. I mean, when you think about it, what did I really do? Cross an imaginary line with a bunch of plants? You say that I'm an outlaw, you say that I'm a thief, but where's the Christmas dinner for the people on George stops when his attorney stamps on his foot. The court officers roll their eyes and the judge smiles.
JUDGE: Those are very interesting concepts you have, Mr. Jung. Unfortunately for you, the imaginary line you crossed is real, the plants you brought with you are illegal, and what you did constitutes a crime. The judge slams his gavel.
BARBARA: Baby, you didn't have to come.
GEORGE: Baby, you didn't have to come.
BARBARA: What, and miss all the fun? C'mon, not a chance. So, what's the verdict?
GEORGE: Lawyer says he can plead it down to five years. I'll serve two.
BARBARA: Two years. George, I can't wait that What? You're not going to wait for me?
GEORGE: What? You're not going to wait for me?
BARBARA: George, I went to the doctor. I don't have two years.
GEORGE: It went too fast. George looks down and Barbara is gone. No Barbara.
GEORGE: Hi, Mom. Ermine just keeps looking at him.
ERMINE: Take your boots off. You're tan.
GEORGE: Yeah. We heard all about it. I want you to know I'm deeply sorry about your Yes, Barbara. She was very pretty.
ERMINE: Yeah. We heard all about it. I want you to know I'm deeply sorry about your Yes, Barbara. She was very pretty.
GEORGE: Yes, Barbara. She was very pretty.
ERMINE: Yes, Barbara. She was very pretty.
GEORGE: Thank you. Have you been getting the money I sent you?
ERMINE: You mean the drug money? Yes, I got it. Ermine's hands are trembling. She is emotional. She hugs George ferociously, not letting go.
GEORGE: Okay, Mom. It's okay. Where's Dad? George turns around to see Fred's beaming face.
GEORGE: May the wind always be at your back and the sun always upon your face.
FRED: .and the winds of destiny carry you .to dance with the stars. The glasses clink and the drinks are sucked down.
BOTH: .to dance with the stars. The glasses clink and the drinks are sucked down.
FRED: You alright? George nods.
GEORGE: Just low.
FRED: You loved her, didn't you? You really loved her.
GEORGE: Yeah, Dad. I really did. What am I gonna do?
FRED: Tough spot. The glasses are refilled.
GEORGE: You mad at me?
FRED: Not mad.
GEORGE: Yeah, you are. I can tell by the way you look at me.
FRED: I just don't know what you're thinking. I don't understand your choices. You know, the police are looking for you.
GEORGE: I know. I'm great at what I do, Dad. I mean, I'm really great.
FRED: Let me tell you something, son. You would have been great at anything. Something outside catches George's eye. A light. A reflection. A movement. George is up and on the move.
ERMINE: INT. GEORGE'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS George slams the door behind him, moves over to the window, and opens it. Cops everywhere. He's trapped. Out of options, he folds. He moves to the corner and sits down, turns on the train set. A KNOCK on the door is heard. FBI Agent, JAMES T. TROUT.
TROUT: George Jung, you are under arrest.
FRED: Open the door, son.
ERMINE: I had no choice. George stops and looks at his mother, for the first time realizing her betrayal.
GUARD: Prisoner in. As he walks, he takes in the faces of the other inmates. He arrives at his cell and notices he has a ROOMMATE.
DIEGO DELGADO: My name is Diego Delgado. How do you INT. DANBURY F.C.I. - MESS HALL - 1974 - DAY George pushes his tray through the cafeteria line. Diego is behind him.
DIEGO: If you don't mind me asking, what is the reason you are in this place?
GEORGE: Your offense? Why are you here?
DIEGO: Your offense? Why are you here?
GEORGE: I don't want to talk about it.
DIEGO: Intriguing. I see. Would you like to know my crime?
GEORGE: Not really, no.
DIEGO: I don't like a lot of conversation, Me, too. Too much blah, blah, blah, blah is no good. But we are roommates, okay? And we must talk to each other. I am arrested for stealing cars. For the grand theft auto. Okay? So, now it is your turn. Now you will tell me, okay? You will tell me why you are George says nothing. He keeps eating his food.
GEORGE: I don't like a lot of conversation, Me, too. Too much blah, blah, blah, blah is no good. But we are roommates, okay? And we must talk to each other. I am arrested for stealing cars. For the grand theft auto. Okay? So, now it is your turn. Now you will tell me, okay? You will tell me why you are George says nothing. He keeps eating his food.
DIEGO: Me, too. Too much blah, blah, blah, blah is no good. But we are roommates, okay? And we must talk to each other. I am arrested for stealing cars. For the grand theft auto. Okay? So, now it is your turn. Now you will tell me, okay? You will tell me why you are George says nothing. He keeps eating his food.
GEORGE: Ah, yes. The murder.
DIEGO: Ah, yes. The murder.
GEORGE: What do you got there, Diego?
DIEGO: Nothing. Just a little project.
GEORGE: What kind of project?
DIEGO: Never mind. Not for you to worry.
GEORGE: I thought you said we were roommates. That we should talk about everything.
DIEGO: You have your intrigues. I have mine. This is a happy day for me, George. Nine months from today, I will be in Medellin sipping champagne. In nine months, I am free. How much time do you Twenty-six months.
GEORGE: Twenty-six months.
DIEGO: Twenty-six months? For murder? I must be your lawyer.
GEORGE: I've got to get out of here, Diego.
DIEGO: Only two ways I know to leave here early. One is to escape.
GEORGE: What's the other one?
GEORGE: Alright, let's open our books.
INMATE #1: Man, fuck you.
INMATE #2: We ain't opening shit.
INMATE #1: You just the warden's boy. We on to you. You just trying to knock some time off, asskissing motherfucker. Diego watches as the room reacts with laughter. This ain't going to be easy.
GEORGE: Alright. You're right. I want to get out of this shithole as fast as I can. And I don't want to do this any more than you do. But for me to walk early, some of you have to graduate. You, forget about it. You're hopeless, go to The room laughs again.
INMATE #3: Damn, homeboy, you got ruined.
GEORGE: But the rest of you could get diplomas and get jobs when you're on the outside. The room looks at him. They ain't buying it.
INMATE #1: Shit, I'm in for life.
INMATE #2: I'm a criminal. I ain't getting no motherfucking job.
GEORGE: We can learn some criminal shit, too. Alright, I'll make you a deal. What if half the time, we learn about George Washington, and the other half, I'll teach you how to smuggle drugs?
INMATE #2: Man, you don't know dick about smuggling no drugs.
GEORGE: I was arrested in Chicago with six hundred and sixty pounds of grass. I think that qualifies me. Diego looks up from his desk, suddenly very interested.
INMATE #1: How did you get a hold of six-hundred and sixty pounds of dope?
GEORGE: Flew it in from Mexico on a single engine Cessna. Now, do we have a deal or not? They react. They're in.
DIEGO: George? Hey, George? I listen to what you say to the class today about the smuggling. You are a magico, ah? George doesn't respond.
GEORGE: I'm tired, Diego. Go to bed.
DIEGO: You like to make the boundaries disappear. It's not only the money, is it, George? The adventure is part of the victory. It's the thrill, ah?
GEORGE: Good night.
DIEGO: In my country, I am a magico. A man with a dream. A man on the rise. To take nothing and make it something, okay? I have failed my dream, but I will accomplish. That is why I am in your country. Yes, I lose my freedom. But they do not take my dream. Do you have a dream, George?
GEORGE: I would if I could get some sleep.
DIEGO: Yes, you have a dream. And maybe you accomplish your dream. But yet you failed. Why?
GEORGE: Because I got caught.
DIEGO: No, my brother.
GEORGE: Because they caught me?
DIEGO: You failed because you had the wrong Diego climbs off his bunk and looks George square in the eye.
GEORGE: I don't know, Diego. I've got a good thing going already. Everybody smokes pot. It's easy. Cocaine is a rich man's drug. It's too expensive.
DIEGO: No, no. That is where you are wrong. For us, it is cheap. In Medellin, we buy for six-thousand dollars a kilo. IN Miami, we sell for sixty. George's interest is piqued.
GEORGE: That's over fifty-thousand dollars profit per kilo.
DIEGO: And that's wholesale. Cut it a few times and retail, you're looking at two, three-hundred thousand.
GEORGE: Oh my G-d.
DIEGO: Yes. And a kilo of coca is smaller than a kilo of your precious marijuana. Everything is the same, George, except instead of thousands, you are making Jesus Christ. Jesus fucking Christ.
GEORGE: Jesus Christ. Jesus fucking Christ.
DIEGO: Now do you see what I am saying?
GEORGE: Getting it here is no problem. Trust me. I'll fly it in myself if I have to. What about supply? How much can we get?
DIEGO: Don't worry. We will talk of everything. We have the time. You arrive here with a Bachelor of Marijuana, but you will leave with a Doctorate of Cocaine.
DIEGO: What type of planes do you have?
GEORGE: Four passenger, single engine Cessna.
DIEGO: How many kilos can we fit in these I don't know. A hundred, hundred and fifty. How many miles is it from Colombia to Miami?
GEORGE: I don't know. A hundred, hundred and fifty. How many miles is it from Colombia to Miami?
DIEGO: Fifteen hundred. We'll have to stop somewhere to refuel.
GEORGE: We'll refuel in the Bahamas. I know someone there.
DIEGO: Great. I love the Bahamas.
GEORGE: Diego Delgado, please?
DIEGO: Diego? It's George.
GEORGE: Diego? It's George.
DIEGO: George, hallo! Today is the day, ah? Are you out?
GEORGE: Yeah, I'm out.
DIEGO: Congratulations, brother. I've been waiting for you.
GEORGE: How are we doing?
DIEGO: Perfect, George. Perfect. Everything is fine down here. Everything is all set up.
GEORGE: Do we need a plane? How does this work? When do I see you?
DIEGO: Slow down, George. Slow down. Fred exits the liquor store carrying two bottles of Dom Perignon. As he catches George's eye, he lifts the bottles showing them off. George holds up his finger, indicating he'll be just a second.
GEORGE: I can't go anywhere, Diego. I'm on parole. I can't leave the state.
DIEGO: But you must. It's the only way.
GEORGE: I just got released five minutes ago.
DIEGO: George, are we gonna do this or not?
GEORGE: Good to see you, Diego.
DIEGO: Yes. Look around you. The sun. The water. The women. It's better than Danbury, no? Come on. I have some friends I would like you to meet.
DIEGO: Fifteen kilos. Seven and a half in each suitcase. You receive a hundred thousand dollars upon delivery.
GEORGE: Not so fast. I would like to go over the details.
CESAR: Not so fast. I would like to go over the details.
GEORGE: What details? I put the coke in the false bottoms and take it through Tell me about the suitcases. What is the make and the color?
CESAR: Tell me about the suitcases. What is the make and the color?
DIEGO: Samsonites. Red. No tags. Cesar thinks about it.
CESAR: Hmm. I see. Will there be clothes in the suitcase?
GEORGE: What? Yeah, sure.
CESAR: Whose cloths? Your clothes?
GEORGE: My clothes, your clothes. What does it I would like to know the contents. Every detail is important.
CESAR: I would like to know the contents. Every detail is important.
GEORGE: What are we doing here, Diego? This guy's a clown. He's talking about I demand to know everything. I do not trust six-hundred thousand dollars of coca to someone I don't know.
CESAR: I demand to know everything. I do not trust six-hundred thousand dollars of coca to someone I don't know.
GEORGE: It's a lousy fifteen kilos. I piss fifteen kilos.
CESAR: The coca is my responsibility!
GEORGE: You're a fucking amateur!
DIEGO: Gentlemen, please. There is no need to be impolite. Cesar, this will be fine. You have my word. George, Cesar is just being thorough. That's all.
CESAR: Very well. But just remember, Mr. Jung. I will be with you the whole way. And I will be watching.
CUSTOMS AGENT: On vacation?
GEORGE: CUSTOMS AGENT On vacation for only one day? BA-BUMP. BA-BUMP. The heartbeats are very loud.
CUSTOMS AGENT: On vacation for only one day? BA-BUMP. BA-BUMP. The heartbeats are very loud.
GEORGE: ( weak smile ) My brother's wedding. Imagine that, George's breathing is labored and his swallowing reflex doesn't seem to be working. Cesar passes through, eyeballing George the whole time.
CUSTOMS AGENT: Open your bags, please. George opens the Samsonites. Super dry mouth. BA-BUMP. BA BUMP. The beats are deafening now. Cesar nervously monitors the situation from the payphones.
GEORGE: The customs agent holds up a woman's undergarment. Cesar throws up his hands in frustration.
CUSTOMS AGENT: And this?
GEORGE: What can I tell you? Different strokes. George winks at the customs agent, who shakes his head before finishing the inspection.
CUSTOMS AGENT: Alright, go ahead.
DIEGO: Three-hundred kilos it is, then. A beautiful Latin woman enters and kisses both Diego and Cesar. Her name is INEZ, and friendly she is not.
STEVENS: I'll fly down on a Friday, refuel in the Bahamas, and then to Medellin.
INEZ: Inez addresses Diego and Cesar only. She speaks in Spanish. The conversation is about "Why Friday?" Inez has some problem with it. Diego explains. And Inez is reassured.
DIEGO: Please, continue.
GEORGE: We make the pick-up, refuel once more in the Bahamas, and fly back on Sunday with the mom and pop traffic.
CESAR: Why are you speaking?
GEORGE: Excuse me?
CESAR: You. Your responsibility is over. You do not fly. You are not a pilot. You are not a distributor. You introduced us to Mr. Stevens and the use of his airplane. That is all. You make a percentage. A generous one. And you're lucky to get that.
GEORGE: I see. How much?
CESAR: Padrino will pay ten-thousand per kilo. For everyone. For you, and you, and He indicates George, Diego and Jack Stevens.
STEVENS: I want two.
GEORGE: Gee, Jack, a million each had such a nice ring to it.
STEVENS: No way. I'm doing all the work. Taking all the risk, and it's my plane. Diego and George look at each other.
GEORGE: You good with this? Diego nods.
DIEGO: You will watch what you say. Especially around George. He is my brother and he speaks as good Spanish as you. But Inez is wild. She starts in again, a log of "Putos ( SOB's )", and "Cojones" and "Maricones ( gay/sissys )." Even Cesar is uncomfortable. Diego stands.
INEZ: Get your hands off me. Inez takes a swing at Diego and catches him full across the face. Time stops in the room. Question. What will Diego do? Answer: SMACK! Diego swings back and a full scale is on. Cesar continues the conversation. It's surreal. As if Diego and Inez weren't beating the shit out of each other right in front of them.
CESAR: Do you have pictures of your kids?
STEVENS: I'll need to see them. Also need their names and the names of their schools. We are trusting you with ninety million dollars worth of coca, Mr. Stevens. Without your children, there is no deal. Stevens thinks about it. Kids as collateral. Inez and Diego are still duking it out. But Diego finally gets the upper hand and drags her into the bedroom.
CESAR: I'll need to see them. Also need their names and the names of their schools. We are trusting you with ninety million dollars worth of coca, Mr. Stevens. Without your children, there is no deal. Stevens thinks about it. Kids as collateral. Inez and Diego are still duking it out. But Diego finally gets the upper hand and drags her into the bedroom.
STEVENS: Fine. So if that's all, I'll be leaving Cesar walks him to the door.
CESAR: Don't forget the pictures. Diego calls from the other room.
DIEGO: What's the matter, George?
GEORGE: What's the matter? We're moving three hundred fucking kilos and we're making A million dollars for our first run is not bad, George.
DIEGO: A million dollars for our first run is not bad, George.
GEORGE: It is bad. It's chump change. We might as well be hauling suitcases across the border. We're getting screwed.
DIEGO: I know.
GEORGE: And what happens when these guys stop paying? Sooner or later, these guys are going to cut us out. Then where are we?
DIEGO: That's my George, always thinking. The door is yanked open to reveal Inez. She is in a rage. Diego slams it in her face.
GEORGE: What is it, George? Because I have to get home. I've got a parole officer waiting for me.
DIEGO: I need you to go to Miami.
GEORGE: I'm George. Friend of Diego's? The Colombian men are not impressed. They grab George and pull him inside.
ALESSANDRO: QUIET! Callate! Where's Diego?
GEORGE: I don't know. He sent me. I'm George.
ALESSANDRO: Oh, I see. George. Well, that explains everything. Open your mouth, George. George's puzzled look is replaced by a gun barrel in his face. Alessandro presses it against George's front teeth.
GEORGE: INT. JUNG HOUSE - GEORGE'S ROOM - DAY George sits on his bed, reading. Two duffel bags are tucked away in the closet. Ermine pokes her head in.
ERMINE: You have a phone call. George picks up the phone.
GEORGE: Jesus Christ, Diego, where are you? It's been eleven days and these guys want their fucking money.
GEORGE: Well, you better get here fast. I'm sitting on. George notices Ermine is loitering in the hallway, Hi, Mom. George acknowledges her before shutting the door in her face.
DIEGO: It's a little hard to get away right now. I'm afraid you're on your own.
MR. T: What we're doing is measuring the purity. Pure coke melts out a hundred and eighty-five, a hundred and ninety degrees. Cutting agents melt much lower. About a hundred degrees. Quality product starts melting at a hundred and forty degrees. That's what I'm hoping for. Mr. T turns the dial. 120. 130. 140.
GEORGE: What did I tell you?
DEREK: It's great and everything, but what am I going to do with all this?
GEORGE: Sell it?
DIEGO: Jesus Christ, George, I don't see you in two years, and you show up at my door with a hundred and ten pounds of Just sell it, Derek.
GEORGE: Just sell it, Derek.
DEREK: Alright, but it's gonna take me a year.
DIEGO: Thirty-six hours. I can't believe it. Everything is gone in thirty-six hours.
GEORGE: I think it's fair to say you underestimated the market there, Derek.
DIEGO: But to the victor belong the spoils. George divides the money. There's a hell of a lot.
GEORGE: But to the victor belong the spoils. George divides the money. There's a hell of a lot.
DEREK: Nice doing business with you, George.
GEORGE: Not bad for a weekend's work, huh?
ALESSANDRO: Greetings, Mr. George.
GEORGE: Where do you guys want to count?
ALESSANDRO: On the plane.
GEORGE: What plane? We going someplace? Where we headed? You have your money. It's all there. What the fuck is going on? They usher him away.
DIEGO: George, good to see you, my brother.
GEORGE: What the fuck is going on? When did you get out of jail?
DIEGO: Pablo used his influence. Now, George, watch what you say. Everybody hears everything. A lot of things get said and done that, well, let's just say this isn't America. Life is cheap here, you know? No offense, but you know what I'm Yeah. Keep my mouth shut and let you do the talking.
GEORGE: Yeah. Keep my mouth shut and let you do the talking.
DIEGO: Right. Now who is the person in California? The connection?
GEORGE: Just a friend.
DIEGO: Who? I need to know. Ah, never mind. We'll talk about it later.
GEORGE: Yeah. You do the talking. The sound of a young man, a MALETON, struggling can be heard in the distance. From another area, PABLO ESCOBAR emerges. He is singular in purpose. He is handed a pistol and moves quickly over to the man and quietly speaks a few words. And then, without emotion, he shoots the maleton in the head. George and Diego, who is visibly shaken, watch. Escobar is handed a towel, and he wipes the splattered blood off his hands, as he moves back.
DIEGO: There must be some kind of mistake.
DIEGO: It's alright, George. You go.
ESCOBAR: So, this is the man who takes fifty kilos and makes them disappear in one Actually, it was three.
GEORGE: Actually, it was three.
ESCOBAR: The man who gives us the airplanes. The man from America. The mafia. Chicago. Boom boom. Hollywood. You are going to open for us the gates of Hollywood, It would be my pleasure.
GEORGE: It would be my pleasure.
ESCOBAR: Good. Very good. Welcome, my friend. Welcome to my country. Escobar moves over to embrace George. George returns it, and their hands come together. George can't help it. He reflexively looks at his hands. Escobar understands.
GEORGE: Un sapo?
ESCOBAR: Un rata - no good. But he could have run, fled the country. Gone to the policia. But then his wife, his children, his parents, his friends, many people would die.
GEORGE: But, never mind. I am thinking we can do much together. This problem with Diego, the stolen car, the jail, is very silly business. To release him from the carcel, it causes me much inconvenience. The fifty kilos could have been a big problem. And I don't like problems.
ESCOBAR: But, never mind. I am thinking we can do much together. This problem with Diego, the stolen car, the jail, is very silly business. To release him from the carcel, it causes me much inconvenience. The fifty kilos could have been a big problem. And I don't like problems.
GEORGE: With all respect, Padrino. Diego is my partner. I do not do business without Escobar looks at him with a cold stare. But George doesn't flinch. His face reveals nothing. Finally, a smile breaks across Pablo's lips.
ESCOBAR: I like you, George. You are loyal. That is good. That is rare. Maybe crazy. Yes. I can tell already. You are like me. I look at you and I see myself. It's in the eyes, no, George?
GEORGE: Yes, it is.
ESCOBAR: So, you are wanting to sell the cocaine for me in your country, George?
GEORGE: Yes, sir. As much as you can give me.
ESCOBAR: As much as I can give you? Ha ha. Very good. I like that. Come, George. Let us drive. We have much to talk about. Diego watches the two men walk outside. Escobar throws an arm around George's shoulder. Pablo hops into a Jeep and motions for George. The bodyguards come running. But Pablo waves them away.
ESCOBAR: I like to come up here. To make the decisions. To be one with nature.
GEORGE: It's beautiful.
ESCOBAR: People tell me that I am crazy. That my business will never work in your country. What do you think, George? Escobar looks out over the vista, allowing George the time to respond in full.
GEORGE: What do I think? I don't want my answer to be influenced by what I want, so I'm going to have to say I don't know.
ESCOBAR: Yes. I do not know, either. What do you want, George?
GEORGE: I want money.
ESCOBAR: Yes. Money. Which is what, George?
GEORGE: Yeah, maybe.
ESCOBAR: Yeah, maybe.
GEORGE: Yeah, maybe.
ESCOBAR: Beautiful girls?
GEORGE: Beautiful girls?
ESCOBAR: Beautiful girls?
GEORGE: Keep them coming.
ESCOBAR: Keep them coming? Ah, yes. Ha ha. You are right. But money.
GEORGE: And Diego?
ESCOBAR: And Diego?
GEORGE: Diego is my brother. Escobar looks at George a long time. He's inscrutable.
ESCOBAR: Good. Take care of him, George. I'm fond of him, but he is sometimes like a baby. Keep an eye on him, okay?
DIEGO: Escobar wraps his arms around Diego in an embrace.
ESCOBAR: Diego, mijo. I've made a decision. We are going into business and I would like to start right away.
STILL PHOTOS: Handshake after handshake after handshake.
GEORGE: Three million. I counted it twice.
DIEGO: It's two-point-five, George. I am sure. George starts to pick up the money.
GEORGE: I'm calling it three.
DIEGO: We're half a million off.
GEORGE: Fuck it. I'm not counting it again.
DIEGO: Weight it. If it's sixty pounds, it's three. If it's fifty, it's two-point I don't give a shit. Close enough. George moves down the hall looking for a place to stack the money, but there is no more room.
GEORGE: I don't give a shit. Close enough. George moves down the hall looking for a place to stack the money, but there is no more room.
DIEGO: Try the back bedroom. George opens the back bedroom door to find wall-to-wall money. It's packed.
GEORGE: There's no room.
DIEGO: Try the closet. No luck there, either. George drops the money on the floor and moves back into the living room.
GEORGE: We've got to do something about this.
GEORGE: Are you comfortable with this?
DIEGO: George, we've got sixty-one million dollars. It's either here or someplace else. We've got to put it somewhere. Unless you want to launder it.
GEORGE: And keep only forty-percent? No thanks.
DIEGO: Then relax. It's a federal bank. Guaranteed by the government. And Senor Noriega has very lenient banking principles. No questions. No problems. All the pesados keep their money here. Even El Padrino. What do you worry? Everyone knows we are with Escobar. Who is going to fuck with us?
GEORGE: I love it.
BANK PRESIDENT: I'm sorry.
GEORGE: I give you thirty-million dollars and you give me this little book.
DIEGO: I'm married, George. Me. I can't believe it. Can you believe I'm married, George?
GEORGE: You're a lucky man, Diego.
DIEGO: I love you, my brother, do you know I love you too, man. George notices MIRTHA showing teeth across the room.
GEORGE: I love you too, man. George notices MIRTHA showing teeth across the room.
INEZ: Look, honey, a power boat.
DIEGO: Great, baby, great! They kiss. George walks across the dance floor directly towards Mirtha.
GEORGE: Do I know you?
MIRTHA: Do I know you?
GEORGE: Do I know you?
MIRTHA: I don't think so.
GEORGE: Why are you smiling?
MIRTHA: Why are you smiling?
GEORGE: I don't know. My name is George.
MIRTHA: I know who you are, El Americano. Mister George.
GEORGE: What is your name? Cesar arrives.
CESAR: Mr. Jung, I see you've met my fiancee, He kisses her.
GEORGE: Diego needs to see you right away, please. Excuse us, Amorcito. They leave. George looks back, Mirtha is giving him more teeth. George arrives at the table. Various greetings.
CESAR: Diego needs to see you right away, please. Excuse us, Amorcito. They leave. George looks back, Mirtha is giving him more teeth. George arrives at the table. Various greetings.
AUGUSTO: Pleased to meet you finally, George. I am Augusto Oliveras.
GEORGE: My pleasure, Augusto. Diego has told me much about you.
RAMON OCHOA: Congratulations on your conquest of the West Coast. How much bigger can we Sky's the limit. We're just beginning to tap the market. If it's accepted by actors and musicians, the rest will They all agree. Mirtha still gives George the teeth from across the room. Diego returns to the table.
GEORGE: Sky's the limit. We're just beginning to tap the market. If it's accepted by actors and musicians, the rest will They all agree. Mirtha still gives George the teeth from across the room. Diego returns to the table.
AUGUSTO: We are talking about George's West Coast Ah, George's mystery man.
DIEGO: Ah, George's mystery man.
RAFAEL OJEDA: Yes, where is this man? When do we meet You don't meet him. George keeps this a secret. He's here meeting everyone, goes to Colombia and meets Pablo, but still keeps his secrets. Even from his Come on, George, we're all in this Yes, George, there's enough for I think Padroni is happy with the current situation. Will you please excuse me? George exits after Mirtha.
DIEGO: You don't meet him. George keeps this a secret. He's here meeting everyone, goes to Colombia and meets Pablo, but still keeps his secrets. Even from his Come on, George, we're all in this Yes, George, there's enough for I think Padroni is happy with the current situation. Will you please excuse me? George exits after Mirtha.
EMILIO OCHOA: Yes, George, there's enough for I think Padroni is happy with the current situation. Will you please excuse me? George exits after Mirtha.
GEORGE: I think Padroni is happy with the current situation. Will you please excuse me? George exits after Mirtha.
MIRTHA: You better know what you're doing, George. You're playing with fire.
GEORGE: I like fire.
STILL PHOTOS: Champagne bottles in hand, George and Mirtha on the tarmac running from the limo to the waiting private plane.
STILL PHOTOS: George buys gifts for Mirtha and she shows them off for the camera. A fur. A ring. A house.
MIRTHA: I do. They kiss. Mirtha wipes her red nose.
GEORGE: Jesus Christ.
MIRTHA: Oh, don't be such a fucking hypocrite. I quit smoking, didn't I?
GEORGE: Put that shit away, they're here.
ERMINE: It's all so beautiful.
MIRTHA: What do you think, Dad?
FRED: Yeah. Nice.
ERMINE: Look at this credenza. If you don't mind me asking, how much is something like that? It's got to cost a fortune.
GEORGE: ( quickly ) It's a family heirloom.
ERMINE: I've seen those in magazines. They're not cheap.
GEORGE: Mirtha comes from a very wealthy family.
ERMINE: Oh, I see.
MIRTHA: Come on. I'll show you the rest of the George and his father move outside.
GEORGE: So, business is going good. I've got this import/export thing going on in Miami that's been very profitable. With my investments.
FRED: Don't bullshit me, George. I don't see you very much, I don't want to waste the They move along the rear of the house. Classic cars line the You come from my body, remember? You're my baby boy. The same kid who would jump off a mountain if someone told him he couldn't do it. You haven't changed much. I know the things you do. Not everything. But I get the picture and I don't care. I don't like it. It's not what I would have chosen for you, but it's your life. It doesn't have anything to do with me. He turns and looks at his boy.
GEORGE: No, it's good. You have a family. It's good if it makes you happy. It's nice to have nice things. Are you happy, Yeah, Dad. I'm happy right now.
FRED: No, it's good. You have a family. It's good if it makes you happy. It's nice to have nice things. Are you happy, Yeah, Dad. I'm happy right now.
GEORGE: Yeah, Dad. I'm happy right now.
DIEGO: Three years. How long have we been in business? Three years. Does she get to meet your connection? Was she good Shut up, Diego. They're going to be here any minute. I'm trying to I'm very angry with you, George. Very angry. You don't take me to California, but you take your bitch wife? A woman? I understand you love her, but it was you and me who started this. You and What do you need my connection for, Diego? What are you going to do with What do I do with it? Nothing. It's for peace of mind. It's for the George doesn't have time for this. He checks the cylinders on his weapon and runs over possible scenarios in his mind. But Diego won't get off the soap box.
GEORGE: Shut up, Diego. They're going to be here any minute. I'm trying to I'm very angry with you, George. Very angry. You don't take me to California, but you take your bitch wife? A woman? I understand you love her, but it was you and me who started this. You and What do you need my connection for, Diego? What are you going to do with What do I do with it? Nothing. It's for peace of mind. It's for the George doesn't have time for this. He checks the cylinders on his weapon and runs over possible scenarios in his mind. But Diego won't get off the soap box.
DIEGO: I'm very angry with you, George. Very angry. You don't take me to California, but you take your bitch wife? A woman? I understand you love her, but it was you and me who started this. You and What do you need my connection for, Diego? What are you going to do with What do I do with it? Nothing. It's for peace of mind. It's for the George doesn't have time for this. He checks the cylinders on his weapon and runs over possible scenarios in his mind. But Diego won't get off the soap box.
GEORGE: What do you need my connection for, Diego? What are you going to do with What do I do with it? Nothing. It's for peace of mind. It's for the George doesn't have time for this. He checks the cylinders on his weapon and runs over possible scenarios in his mind. But Diego won't get off the soap box.
DIEGO: What do I do with it? Nothing. It's for peace of mind. It's for the George doesn't have time for this. He checks the cylinders on his weapon and runs over possible scenarios in his mind. But Diego won't get off the soap box.
GEORGE: Jesus fucking Christ, Diego. I ain't telling you. It's just business. Now, shut up. You're driving me crazy.
DIEGO: I'm driving you crazy? No. You're driving me crazy. We had a dream. What happened to our dream? A black sedan pulls up and FIVE PUERTO RICAN MEN approach the room. George and Diego greet them and lead them inside. It's game time. The atmosphere is charged with danger and everyone is acutely aware of everything. The guys sit down, their guns bulging through the inside of their suits. The suitcases are opened. The rules are the same. No English. No raising voices. No sudden movements. George offers their leader, TONY, beers for his men, and is politely declined. The count starts. George and Diego riff through ten thousand dollar bundles. Diego is still acting pissy. He's mumbling to himself, making faces, slamming the money all around. The guys keep a close eye on him. Diego finishes a stack, throws one of the bags on the ground. The conversation is in Spanish unless otherwise indicated.
TONY: Algun problema?
GEORGE: No no no. no problema, amigo. El dinero esta todo aqui. Lleves las "llaves" y mas tarde lo contaremos. Okay? No problem.
TONY: Que problema? Nosotros esperamos. The pressure is getting to one of the hoods. His name is BENNY. He's got a crazy eye and he seems ready to snap. George resumes the count, but Diego won't get off it.
DIEGO: ( English ) You embarrassed me, George. You make me look very bad.
BENNY: Que esta diciendo?
GEORGE: Nothing. Todo esta bien.
DIEGO: ( English ) Everything is not alright. I bring you in, and you slap my fucking face!
GEORGE: This is not the time, Diego. The men all reach for their pieces and all hell starts to break loose.
TONY: Hay algun problema? Hablame!
DIEGO: ( English ) You fucked me in front of my whole Fuck you.I didn't fuck you.
GEORGE: Fuck you.I didn't fuck you.
BENNY: Maldita sea, que diablos esta diciendo?
GEORGE: Esta todo aqui, amigo.take the keys. Take 'em and go.
TONY: Que esta pasando aqui, jefe?
DIEGO: Sientese ye no se meta en lo que no le The guns are out and pointed. It's out of control now.
GEORGE: Take it easy! Everything's okay!
DIEGO: Que es lo que quieren de me, hijueputas George steps forward with the keys.
GEORGE: Take the fucking keys! BLAM! Courtesy of Benny, George is hit. The shoulder, the collarbone. It's hard to tell.
DIEGO: Es un Ford blanco junto a una pick-up. Tony very carefully takes the car keys.
GEORGE: No problem, gentlemen. Goodbye. The men slowly back out the door. George looks at Diego.
DIEGO: Derek Foreal. Derek Foreal. Derek fucking Foreal. Alright? The answer to all your dreams. Are you happy now?
GEORGE: Derek Foreal. Derek Foreal. Derek fucking Foreal. Alright? The answer to all your dreams. Are you happy now?
FRED: Hello, hello.
AUGUSTO: I'm so glad you two could make it. Mirtha, look at you. So beautiful. You look like you're about to burst.
MIRTHA: Thanks. I am. Where's Martha?
AUGUSTO: I don't know. Drunk somewhere. Try the bar. And if you find her, tell her to come, it's almost midnight. As Mirtha leaves, Augusto throws his arm around George's It's good you came down, George. We need to discuss a few things.
DIEGO: Where's Diego?
AUGUSTO: He's not here, George.
GEORGE: Yeah, well where is he? And who is this Norman K. guy? That's all anyone is talking about. Norman K. Norman K. Do I know him? Augusto lets out a big laugh.
AUGUSTO: Norman Cay is not a person. He is an island, George. In the Bahamas. From what they say, it is free and it's Diego's new home.
GEORGE: Augusto throws an arm around George's shoulder.
AUGUSTO: Let us walk. From what I understand, Diego has bought a hundred and sixty acres, a marina, a hotel, and an Motherfucker works fast.
GEORGE: Motherfucker works fast.
AUGUSTO: The word is that soon he is to be king of the middle empire. He is doing multiple runs right now and using the island as a jump-off point.
GEORGE: He what?
AUGUSTO: Yes. Jack Stevens is already a very busy man. Along with many others. You shouldn't stay away so long.
GEORGE: That's impossible. We can't be up and running. Who's distributing? Augusto says nothing. But the ball is dropping in Times Square. 10, 9, 8, 7.
INTERCUT: Derek Foreal in full New Year's regalia, complete with party George's face scrinches in pain.
DEREK: I don't want to get caught in the middle of this. That's between you and Diego. George's face scrinches in pain.
GEORGE: Yeah. I understand. Just business. Right. Fuck you. The song ends, and George is left standing there screaming.
MIRTHA: Que va hacer?
AUGUSTO: Que queres decir. Que es lo que el va hacer? Pues, no va hacer nada.
MARIA: Alguna cosa tiene que hacer.
MARIA: No Puedes hacer ni un culo.
AUGUSTO: El no va hacer nada. Hay un problema. Aqui, hubo un error y nosotros lo vamos ha arreglar.
BLANCA: No le escusches a mi yerno. A el solo le importa la plata. Blanca reaches into her purse, pulls out an ice pick folded in a piece of linen cloth, and puts it down in front of Vos lo tenes que matar, ahorita mismo. De lo contrario vas a quedar como un marica sin horror.
BLANCA: Sabes que, vos no tenes pantalones. Nadie te va a respetar. Usa esto. Deja solo un huequito tan pequeno, que ni sangre le va a salir a ese malparido del Blanca, por favor.
AUGUSTO: Blanca, por favor.
MIRTHA: Mama, vos sos bien antigua. Como lo va a matar con un picahielo. Eso era en su tiempo, estamos casi ya en los ochenta. El lo va a meter un tiro, lo va a volar, le va a hechar un hijueputa carro Dejen la maricada pues! No jodan! Nadie va a matar a nadie! George, debemos hablarle al Patron, es la unica manera, mano.
AUGUSTO: Dejen la maricada pues! No jodan! Nadie va a matar a nadie! George, debemos hablarle al Patron, es la unica manera, mano.
GEORGE: No, no, no, no yo puedo arregarlo solo.
CESAR: Good to see you, George. It's been a long time.
DIEGO: George, I am happy to see you. How are you, my brother?
GEORGE: No more brothers, Diego.
DIEGO: Of course we are brothers. Why do you say that? You hurt me, George.
GEORGE: You fucked me, Diego.
DIEGO: I did not.
GEORGE: You went behind my back and you cut me No, I never. I would not do that, George. Never.
DIEGO: No, I never. I would not do that, George. Never.
GEORGE: I talked to Foreal, Diego. There is a pause. Diego's goons ready their weapons as Diego scoops up a cringer with his pinky and sniffs.
DIEGO: Maybe you are right. I did betray you a little bit. One of the men says something in Spanish and everyone laughs. George is furious. He starts to tremble and his face turns Oh, boo hoo, boo hoo. So sad, George. I stole your California connection. So what? Who introduced you to Pablo Escobar? Me. Who introduced you to your fucking Colombian wife? Me. Who protected you when my friend Cesar Roza wanted to slice your fucking throat, huh? Who mad you millions and millions of dollars? Me. And what do I get in return? This? Accusations? I have always given you everything, George, but that is over now. This is my operation. My dream. So go home, George. Go back to your stupid little life. You can sell half grams to your fucking relatives for all I care. Because you are out! George lunges at Diego and is immediately grabbed.
GEORGE: You'd better kill me now, Diego, because you're a dead man.
DIEGO: George, don't be so emotional. This is business. Besides, I can't kill you, you are my brother. They lead him away.
CESAR: Say "hi" to your pretty wife for me.
ESCOBAR: George, you look terrible.
GEORGE: Yeah, well.
ESCOBAR: Please. Sit down. We'll drink some I didn't come here to drink scotch.
GEORGE: Please. Sit down. We'll drink some I didn't come here to drink scotch.
ESCOBAR: Please. Sit down. We'll drink some I didn't come here to drink scotch.
GEORGE: I didn't come here to drink scotch.
ESCOBAR: I see. I'm sorry about this, George. I'm not happy about this situation. It's bad. You now know who your Brutus You know why I'm here. You know what I have to do. I came here for permission. Out of respect, Pablo. This is bullshit, he's making me look like a It is very difficult. Diego makes me a lot of money. If Diego goes so does the money. You were an excellent teacher, George. When the student has learned well, the teacher is no longer necessary. We must remember we have wives, friends, familia. Even familia that has not been born. But sometimes, we must forget as well. I am like you. I must teach the lesson. We want to teach the lesson. But we cannot. We must remember that life is the teacher.
GEORGE: You know why I'm here. You know what I have to do. I came here for permission. Out of respect, Pablo. This is bullshit, he's making me look like a It is very difficult. Diego makes me a lot of money. If Diego goes so does the money. You were an excellent teacher, George. When the student has learned well, the teacher is no longer necessary. We must remember we have wives, friends, familia. Even familia that has not been born. But sometimes, we must forget as well. I am like you. I must teach the lesson. We want to teach the lesson. But we cannot. We must remember that life is the teacher.
ESCOBAR: It is very difficult. Diego makes me a lot of money. If Diego goes so does the money. You were an excellent teacher, George. When the student has learned well, the teacher is no longer necessary. We must remember we have wives, friends, familia. Even familia that has not been born. But sometimes, we must forget as well. I am like you. I must teach the lesson. We want to teach the lesson. But we cannot. We must remember that life is the teacher.
GEORGE: You're saying life will take care of Life will take care of everybody. Diego, me, you. It is the teacher.
ESCOBAR: Life will take care of everybody. Diego, me, you. It is the teacher.
GEORGE: I get it. I'm really pissed, Pablo. You know the DEA knows about Norman's Cay. For Chrissakes, Diego worships Adolf Hitler and John Lennon, that's fucked up!
ESCOBAR: I'm sorry, George.
GEORGE: Yeah, well, what are you gonna do? You and me, Pablo? Are we good?
ESCOBAR: Of course, George. We are beautiful. We are brothers. Real brothers. Not like Diego. We started this, George. Escobar embraces George for a moment, and then George starts to move away.
MIRTHA: George. Oh, Jesus Christ, George. Look at you.
GEORGE: Shhh, honey, never mind. It's alright. It's over. I quit the business. I'm Pablo said no?
MIRTHA: Pablo said no?
GEORGE: Pablo said no. It's all over. And I'm never going back. I have you. We have the baby. And there's nothing else. It's just the family now. Shhh. Sleep EXT. EASTHAM HOUSE - DAY Fred, Ermine and Mirth are waiting for George in the car. Mirtha's water has broken. Ermine honks the horn from the back seat and screams out the window.
ERMINE: George, it's time! George! George!
GEORGE: He finally gets it together, but before he runs out the door, he does one last blast.
NURSE: He fainted.
MIRTHA: The doctor grabs George's wrist.
DR. BAY: He's in tachycardia. George, your heart is racing. Have you been using drugs?
GEORGE: DR. BAY Cocaine? How much?
DR. BAY: Cocaine? How much?
GEORGE: I don't know. Maybe eighteen grams.
DR. BAY: In how long? A week?
GEORGE: DR. BAY Oh, Jesus, Get me a 12-lead e.k.g. and start an i.v. stat! This man is having a heart attack.
DR. BAY: Oh, Jesus, Get me a 12-lead e.k.g. and start an i.v. stat! This man is having a heart attack.
DR. BAY: I've reviewed your toxicology report three times, George. I've never seen anything like it. Eighteen grams. The lethal dose is a gram and a half. You should be in the Guiness Book. George cracks a faint smile.
GEORGE: Come on. Come on, honey. You can do it. Come to Daddy. Kristina tries, stumbles. Gets up again. She looks like a drunk, but she's doing it.
MIRTHA: She did that before.
GEORGE: No. These are her first steps. Watch Yeah. I know. She did that before.
MIRTHA: Yeah. I know. She did that before.
GEORGE: But this is.
MIRTHA: I said, I've seen it before.
GEORGE: Can you lift the furnace. I need money.
MIRTHA: Can you lift the furnace. I need money.
GEORGE: Where are you going?
MIRTHA: MONTAGE - SERIES OF SHOTS - 1980-85 HOME MOVIE STYLE & PHOTOGRAPHS The years go by and they are SUPERIMPOSED as they pass. George, clean and sober, enjoying family life. Healthy and happy. Mr. Mom. Mirtha looks worse and worse as her habit becomes bigger and bigger. As George and Kristina grow closer and closer, Mirtha is stepping out on the town. Blowing money right and left. Shopping with Mirtha, buying clothes, furs, and diamonds. As Kristina gets older, WE SEE her birthday parties. George and Kristina wearing paper hats and eating ice cream. She's two years old, she's three, four, five, six.
DEREK: Happy Birthday, George. Mirtha invited Yeah. She told me.
GEORGE: Yeah. She told me.
DEREK: Look, I'm sorry about everything. I feel like an idiot. You were right. I did fuck you. And then Diego fucked me. Cut me out, too.
GEORGE: I heard.
DEREK: I lost sight of everything. Forgot who my friends were.
GEORGE: It's in the past. I'm out of the business now, so forget about it. No hard feelings. We need to move on. And besides, I'm sorry, too.
DEREK: For calling you a homo.
GEORGE: For calling you a homo.
DEREK: That was out of line. George throws his arm around Derek's shoulder.
GEORGE: Good to see you, Derek. Mirtha runs in with a giant crystal punch bowl filled with mother of pearl. She holds it over her head triumphantly.
MIRTHA: Now let's fucking party, motherfuckers! Let's have some fucking fun.
DEREK: Jesus, is that Mirtha!? A very underweight Mirtha nervously runs around the party, shoving coke up everyone's noses. She is gakked to the gills and out of control. Her pupils a mile wide.
GEORGE: I know. She needs to slow down. She's going to blow an O-ring. Singing. The birthday cake is brought in, the candles are blown out and everyone cheers. Mirtha runs over to her husband, still holding the cocaine. She's sweaty, her hair matted down on one side.
MIRTHA: Happy birthday, baby. Do a line. She tries to push a line up his nose.
GEORGE: No, that's alright.
MIRTHA: Oh fucking relax. Let your hair down for once. It's your fucking birthday, for Chrissakes. You're such a fucking pussy. I swear to G-d, I married this big time drug dealer and wound up with the maid. Mirtha's loud now and making a scene. He thinks about it.
GEORGE: No honey, I'm alright.
AUGUSTO: A toast! To Mister George Jung. Mr. I 95, north and south. My brother-in-law. Happy birthday! Everyone raises their glasses.
EVERYONE: To George! A party guest comes running inside.
PARTY GUEST: Cops! They're all over the place. The WAITERS, in their white jackets, exchange knowing looks. The BARTENDER comes out from behind the bar.
BARTENDER: In an instant, all of the waiters' guns are out.
WAITER: Massachusetts State Police Department! Everybody on the floor!
GEORGE: What's this?
DETECTIVE #2: It's your statement. How it was all yours, the pound of coke was for personal use and none of the guests had any idea it was there, yeah, right. George looks through the papers.
GEORGE: I want my kid out of protective custody. Now. No fucking around. My wife and my kid on a plane tonight. I sign when they call me safe and sound.
DETECTIVE #1: No fucking way.
GEORGE: Fuck you, then. I sign nothing. The detectives ponder.
DETECTIVE #2: Do it. Detective #1 walks to the door.
DETECTIVE #1: George? You better get yourself a good lawyer this time. We're gonna nail your ass to the wall on this one.
GEORGE: Oh hey, one more thing?
DETECTIVE #1: What's that?
GEORGE: Get me a six pack.
GEORGE: EXT. JUNG HOUSE - WEYMOUTH - PORCH - MORNING George pulls up to the front.
GEORGE: I heard. Ermine, your son is here.
FRED: I heard. Ermine, your son is here.
GEORGE: Ermine's back is to George. She won't look at him.
ERMINE: Don't you dare step one foot in this house. You're not my son, you hear me? I don't have a son anymore. She disappears into the house. The sound of a door slamming.
FRED: She's angry. It's all over the news.
GEORGE: Yeah. Listen. I'm going to be going away for awhile.
FRED: You're not going to trial?
GEORGE: They stand there and look at each other for a while. There's a lot to say but nothing's coming out. George hands Fred a gym bag.
FRED: They stand there and look at each other for a while. There's a lot to say but nothing's coming out. George hands Fred a gym bag.
GEORGE: Give this to Mom, will you?
FRED: Money. You and your mother. All the time chasing it. I never understood it.
GEORGE: Give it to her, Dad. It'll make her Yeah, I know. This is it, isn't it? The two men throw their arms around each other and hold on to one another in the doorway of the old house.
FRED: Yeah, I know. This is it, isn't it? The two men throw their arms around each other and hold on to one another in the doorway of the old house.
GEORGE: Tell Mom, you know.
FRED: I'll tell her. George breaks away and moves to the T-bird.
GEORGE: I'd like to make a withdrawal. The employee opens the book and gets a funny look on his face. Nervous.
BANK EMPLOYEE: Excuse me, please. He gets up and moves to the BANK MANAGER. They move to another MANAGER TYPE. And another. And then everyone disappears behind closed doors. Finally, the BANK PRESIDENT emerges and moves over to George.
BANK PRESIDENT: I'm afraid there is a problem, Mr. Jung. The banks have gone through a change, a nationalization. I'm afraid your funds have been appropriated by the Panamanian George starts to shake. The bank president tries to explain, but whatever he says is unimportant. George is paralyzed.
MIRTHA: What are we going to do?! What are we going to use for money?!
GEORGE: Please, Mirtha. I'll start working for Augusto. I'll talk to him tonight. I'll do something.
MIRTHA: Don't touch me. Tell me. Just answer the question. What do I spend? What? How will we live? Kristina sits there. She hears everything, so does Clara Not in front of the kid.
GEORGE: Not in front of the kid.
MIRTHA: Don't give me that shit. You just better do something. She storms into the bedroom and slams the door. George stands there. Awkward silence. George goes to Kristina.
GEORGE: Everything's gonna be okay, sweetheart. Don't be upset.
KRISTINA: What's happening to us? Tough question to answer.
GEORGE: I don't know.
KRISTINA: Are we gonna split up?
GEORGE: No, never. Don't even think about that, it's impossible. I love your mother. And you are my heart. Could I live without my heart? Could I? Kristina nods "no." They embrace.
GEORGE: There's a fucking cop behind us, Mirtha. Be cool, will ya.
MIRTHA: Fuck you, George, just fucking drive.
GEORGE: Hey, why don't you just put a "I'm doing cocaine" sign on the car. What is your fucking problem?
MIRTHA: My problem? We're broke, that's my fucking problem. And you're a fucking That's right. Always spying, always judging. Everyone's laughing at you, you fucking pussy. You let Diego fuck you in the ass. Maybe you are a fucking faggot. You must be fucking Diego because you're not fucking me. Mirtha grabs nuts.
GEORGE: That's right. Always spying, always judging. Everyone's laughing at you, you fucking pussy. You let Diego fuck you in the ass. Maybe you are a fucking faggot. You must be fucking Diego because you're not fucking me. Mirtha grabs nuts.
MIRTHA: That's right. Always spying, always judging. Everyone's laughing at you, you fucking pussy. You let Diego fuck you in the ass. Maybe you are a fucking faggot. You must be fucking Diego because you're not fucking me. Mirtha grabs nuts.
GEORGE: Those are my nuts! George tries to fend her off. The car swerves all over the road. It's turned into a full scale fist fight. The red lights of Florida's finest come up behind them and George is pulled over.
MIRTHA: He's a fugitive and a fucking cocaine dealer! There's a kilo in his trunk right now! Take this sorry motherfucker to jail! George sits behind the wheel. He knows it's over.
MIRTHA: I'm divorcing you, George. I'm getting custody of Kristina. And when you get out next week, you're going to pay support and that's the end of it. Alright? There's someone else. I'm George just looks at her. His face is stone. But he is You should have taken better care of me, you know? You've been away a long time. Four years. Say something.
GEORGE: What do you want me to say? I'm in prison. You should know. You put me Fuck you, George. I knew you'd say something like that. Always thinking about yourself. She moves away and drags nine-year old Kristina into the Kristina yanks her arm away and they get into a heated argument. Through the glass, George can't hear the words but it's clear that Kristina doesn't want to be here.
MIRTHA: Fuck you, George. I knew you'd say something like that. Always thinking about yourself. She moves away and drags nine-year old Kristina into the Kristina yanks her arm away and they get into a heated argument. Through the glass, George can't hear the words but it's clear that Kristina doesn't want to be here.
GEORGE: My baby. She's so big. Mirtha forces Kristina over to the glass and keeps showing her, prompting her to talk. Kristina stares at George through the glass. Cool. Defiant. Angry. She picks up the phone and speaks, every word an accusation.
KRISTINA: I thought you couldn't live without your She drops the phone, walks away, and doesn't look back.
GEORGE: Hello, Derek? It's George. Yeah. Yeah, I am. I'm in Miami. I'm looking to do something. I want to put together a crew. Do you know anybody? Leon? I don't know him. What's his last name? Alright. Give me the number.
KRISTINA: What are you doing here?
GEORGE: Nothing. I just wanted you to know I was out. I just wanted to see you.
KRISTINA: Well, here I am. See?
GEORGE: How are you doing?
KRISTINA: George, you just can't show up, tell me you love me, and have everything be You can call me Dad if you want.
GEORGE: You can call me Dad if you want.
KRISTINA: You can call me Dad if you want.
GEORGE: You can call me Dad if you want.
KRISTINA: I don't want, alright? It's not funny. I'm really pissed off, George. You blew it, now leave me alone.
GEORGE: Kristina, c'mon, I'm sorry. I'm going to make this right. I've got a few things going on.
KRISTINA: What do you want from me?
GEORGE: Just to walk with you. I want to be your dad again.
KRISTINA: Do what you want, it's a free country. She walks away. He follows.
LEON: It's a four-man operation. Two on the ground. Two in the air.
GEORGE: Who's the co-pilot?
LEON: You're looking at him. We provide the plane, transportation cost, U.S. landing spot, and take it to wherever you want it to go. You provide the pick up point in South America, and are responsible for payment. You assume all the bust risks. We take sixty-five percent of all transportation fees, ten percent of the gross, plus our expenses. This is not a negotiation, so if this is okay with you, we can talk further. If not, we can forget we had this Sounds fine. I'll need to meet They're over at the booth. Leon leads George over.
GEORGE: Sounds fine. I'll need to meet They're over at the booth. Leon leads George over.
LEON: They're over at the booth. Leon leads George over.
GEORGE: Holy shit, Dulli!
KEVIN: Georgie, oh man, hold the mayo!
AUGUSTO: Three-hundred kilos is a very big load, Georgie. Why don't we start small?
GEORGE: No. I have the space. I figured it out. This is what I want to do.
AUGUSTO: Alright. I'll ask Pablo, tell him it's for you. I don't think there will be a Five-thousand per kilo.
GEORGE: Five-thousand per kilo.
AUGUSTO: Ha ha. That's too much, Georgie. Those days are over. The rate is one-thousand dollars. Inflation, you know?
GEORGE: This is a one time thing, Gusto. One and I'm out. Give me a good price for old time's sake. What do you think?
GEORGE: Let me ask you something. If you could go anywhere in the world, anywhere, where would you want to go?
KRISTINA: You mean, like a trip?
GEORGE: Yeah, sure, whatever. Kristina thinks about it.
KRISTINA: I don't know. Maybe California. George is amused by her answer.
GEORGE: California? You can go anywhere in the world. India. Tibet. Australia. Paris. And you choose California?
KRISTINA: What is it? A Disneyland thing?
GEORGE: What is it? A Disneyland thing?
KRISTINA: No. I just kind of like the sound of California, huh?
GEORGE: California, huh?
KRISTINA: They turn a corner and arrive at Kristina's house. Mirtha is standing in the doorway.
GEORGE: Go on inside now. I want to talk to your mom alone. He kisses his daughter goodbye.
KRISTINA: Bye, Dad. See you in the morning, okay?
GEORGE: I'll be here. George moves over to Mirtha. It's been a while.
MIRTHA: What do you want?
GEORGE: You knew I was seeing Kristina, right?
MIRTHA: Yeah. She told me. You walk her to Yeah, so I've been thinking. I love her, y'know? I kind of want to have her. I've been away for so long. Make up for the missed time, you know?
GEORGE: Yeah, so I've been thinking. I love her, y'know? I kind of want to have her. I've been away for so long. Make up for the missed time, you know?
MIRTHA: I haven't seen one dollar from you. You haven't paid me one cent in child support, alimony.
GEORGE: Yeah, well. I'm working on that. I've got something going.
MIRTHA: Yeah? I better see some money out of Yeah, you will. Of course. Mirtha looks at her ex-husband. It's not all bad.
GEORGE: Yeah, you will. Of course. Mirtha looks at her ex-husband. It's not all bad.
MIRTHA: Hey, look. You start paying, who knows what will happen. You're a good father, George. I always gave you that. But you've got to talk to her.
GEORGE: She's getting big. Getting her own I know. Well, that's all I really wanted to say. So, okay, then. He moves down the steps and heads for the sidewalk.
MIRTHA: She's getting big. Getting her own I know. Well, that's all I really wanted to say. So, okay, then. He moves down the steps and heads for the sidewalk.
GEORGE: I know. Well, that's all I really wanted to say. So, okay, then. He moves down the steps and heads for the sidewalk.
MIRTHA: Hey, George. You okay?
GEORGE: Yeah. I'm fine. I'm good.
KEVIN: We take off from Lauderdale, Sunday, refuel, and be in Medellin by Monday.
LEON: Overnight, refuel, and back Wednesday Where are you coming in?
GEORGE: Where are you coming in?
BEN: Vero Beach.
LEON: Then we drive it to the Lauderdale house where it stays until pick up and payment the next morning. You want to go over it again?
GEORGE: No. All set. Piece of cake.
GEORGE: I'm thinking about getting out of town this week. You want to come with me?
KRISTINA: Where are you going?
GEORGE: I don't know. Maybe California.
KRISTINA: You swear?
GEORGE: Yeah. Go out there, check it out, see what it's like. I've got some stuff to do this week, but I'm thinking maybe Thursday. Thursday after school.
KRISTINA: You know I can't. Mom will never let me You let me take care of your mother. You just pack your bags.
GEORGE: You let me take care of your mother. You just pack your bags.
KRISTINA: But I've got school.
GEORGE: There's schools in California.
KRISTINA: You swear?
GEORGE: That's right. Three o'clock. Thursday. At your mother's. You and me. It's a I don't believe you.
KRISTINA: I don't believe you.
GEORGE: I swear. On my life.
KRISTINA: Swear on my life.
GEORGE: I swear on your life.
KEVIN: Are we good?
GEORGE: Are we good? Yeah, we're good. We're beautiful. We're perfect. This is A grade, one-hundred percent pure Colombian cocaine, Ladies and Gentlemen. Disco shit. Pure as the driven snow. Good riddance. He looks the boys over.
LEON: Jesus, George, fifteen percent. That's an extra two-hundred large.
GEORGE: I don't give a shit. Split it up. Have a great life. I'm done. I'm out. Starting over. Cheers. They clank. George gets up and does the Snoopy Dance to the Yeah! Unbelievable. Dulli, pour us another round. I gotta hit the head. George leaves the room. The camera slowly pans back to the guys. Something doesn't look right. They have not moved. They look bummed. Leon looks at G.G.
LEON: I feel bad.
BEN: Me too. He's not such a bad guy.
KEVIN: Fuck you guys. All of you. I've known him for thirty fucking years. Fucking Yeah, I like him, too. But what's done is done. So let's not get all sentimental about it, okay? The CAMERA PANS BACK SLOWLY to the bathroom door, George comes back into the room, dancing. He goes and sits down with the guys.
LEON: Yeah, I like him, too. But what's done is done. So let's not get all sentimental about it, okay? The CAMERA PANS BACK SLOWLY to the bathroom door, George comes back into the room, dancing. He goes and sits down with the guys.
GEORGE: ( laughing ) Dulli, I was just thinking about that time we landed in Mexico. You've gotten a lot better since then, huh pal? Remember that fucking landing strip? George is the only one smiling. No one is looking at him.
GEORGE: Oh, no.
ZIGMOND: Here's the deal, George. You're not getting out. I tried to get you furloughed, but your mother squashed it. Said it would only upset him. I'm George takes it in. Blinks. The years have not been kind.
GEORGE: How's he doing?
ZIGMOND: Well, he's out of the hospital, but there's not much anyone can do for him. It's just a matter of time. Listen, I brought a tape recorder in case you wanted to say something to him. That way he could hear your voice.
GEORGE: Zigmond sets the tape recorder down and leaves the room. George stares long at the machine. He pushes the record button and looks at the red light.
FRED: That's where you belong.
FRED: .you sonofabitch. Putting on George's That was a good one, Dad. That was really something. Remember that?
GEORGE: I guess I kind of lost sight of things. "May the wind always be at your back and the sun always upon your face, and the winds of destiny carry you aloft to dance with the stars." Love, George.
FRED: That was a beautiful message.
GEORGE: I meant every word of it.
FRED: Did you know I died two weeks after you sent me that tape? The apparition of Fred disappears and George is left alone once again.
GEORGE: Yeah, Dad. I knew that.
GARCIA: How are you doing, George?
GEORGE: What do you guys want?
GARCIA: You hear about your old friend, Diego?
GEORGE: What about him? Garcia tosses a newspaper onto the table. The Miami Herald. Inside is a full page letter addressed from Diego Delgado to Vice President George Bush. In the letter, Diego offers to make a deal. In exchange for immunity, Diego will rat out the entire cocaine business. Americans, Colombians, Noriega, Escobar, everybody. Just let him free.
GARCIA: He's going down, George. It's election year. We're not making any deals.
GARCIA: So, how would you like to help us put him away?
GEORGE: I don't think so.
GARCIA: Don't be stupid, George. We've got him. We've got him dead to rights. But like I said, this is top priority so we're handing out free passes on this one. And the first one's got your name on it. Cut your sentence in half, maybe more.
GEORGE: No thanks, fellas. You've got the wrong fucking guy. I'm not a rat.
GEORGE: Mirtha, what's going on? Everything okay with Kristina?
MIRTHA: Kristina's fine.
GEORGE: Is she here? Is she coming?
MIRTHA: Is she here? George, Kristina hates you. You fucked her over one too many times. And I'm not here to socialize. Did you hear about Diego?
GEORGE: Well, I got a call from Pablo. He said this thing with Diego is a disaster. He's giving up lab locations, names, bank accounts, he was very pissed off. Pablo said to take him down. His exact words were "Fuck Diego."
MIRTHA: Well, I got a call from Pablo. He said this thing with Diego is a disaster. He's giving up lab locations, names, bank accounts, he was very pissed off. Pablo said to take him down. His exact words were "Fuck Diego."
GEORGE: He wants me to testify? Is that what he's asking me to do?
MIRTHA: George, he wasn't asking. Mirtha gets up and starts to move away.
GEORGE: Mirtha, how are you doing?
MIRTHA: Better than you.
GEORGE: Hey, Arch, you think the judge will let us get a cocktail after this is all I'll see what I can do, George.
ZIGMOND: I'll see what I can do, George.
GEORGE: Thanks, Arch. They walk into the crowded courtroom.
CLERK: Sir, please state your name.
GEORGE: I'm George Jung. Spelled J-U-N-G.
CLERK: Thank you.
PROSECUTOR: Mr. Jung, do you know Diego Delgado?
GEORGE: Yes, I do.
PROSECUTOR: Do you see him here in the courtroom?
GEORGE: Yes, he's sitting right there at the end of the table.
PROSECUTOR: Let the record state the witness has identified, Diego Delgado. The following sound bytes are dissolved together in montage Mr. Jung, can you describe the circumstances of how you began talking about cocaine with Mr. Delgado?
GEORGE: Shortly after I arrived at Danbury Federal Correctional Institute I related to Diego that the crime I was in for was smuggling marijuana. Diego told me he had high level connections in Colombia and they needed to find someone to help them transport cocaine into America.
CALIBANOS: Yes, we are Mr. Jung. We come out of the montage, the defense attorney Diego Delgado, Joe Calibanos, a sleazy-Greek-like-ex-basketball weight lifter guy is now doing the questioning.
GEORGE: Yes, I am.
CALIBANOS: Do you have any agreement or understanding whatsoever with the United States government in regards to your No, I cam here out of my own volition.
GEORGE: No, I cam here out of my own volition.
CALIBANOS: Excuse me?
GEORGE: Something about vengance being best served cold.
CALIBANOS: Really. Are you getting paid, Mr. Jung?
GEORGE: Excuse me?
CALIBANOS: Mr. Jung, don't you have an agreement or understanding with the United States Government in connection with your testimony in this case?
GEORGE: I'm doing sixty years at Otisville, no chance of parole. Even if they cut my sentence in half I'll be seventy-three years old. That's some fucking deal. I don't know if the parole board, the judge, the pope or Jesus Christ himself can get me out of here. I have a really bad record, I'm not sure what's going to So you do have an agreement with the United States Government, Mr. Jung, George can't respond. Looks to Diego. Looks from the jury, the judge, George is on the spotlight and it's uncomfortable. He feels suddenly sleazy.
CALIBANOS: So you do have an agreement with the United States Government, Mr. Jung, George can't respond. Looks to Diego. Looks from the jury, the judge, George is on the spotlight and it's uncomfortable. He feels suddenly sleazy.
GEORGE: You shouldn't have taken the 30 million, Diego, I was out. George is lead away.
CLERK: The court calls Mr. Jack Stevens. Jack Stevens is lead to the stand. WE SLOWLY DISSOLVE TO:
KRISTINA: I'm here to see my father.
ADMISSIONS OFFICER: Kristina Sunshine Jung.
KRISTINA: Kristina Sunshine Jung.
GUARD: Hey, George, five more minutes, buddy.
ADMISSIONS OFFICER: Kristina grabs her papers and moves to the counter.
GUARD: George? George, come on. You've got a George looks up to find Kristina being buzzed through the gate. She moves through the open area and onto the grass quickly. SLOW MOTION: Father and daughter come together at last in a long embrace.
GEORGE: I'm sorry, baby. I'm so sorry.
KRISTINA: It's alright, Dad.
GEORGE: I didn't mean to.
KRISTINA: I know, Dad. I know. He hugs her hard.
GEORGE: I fucked up.
KRISTINA: I love you. I love you so much. You've got to know that. You've got to know.
GEORGE: I love you. I love you so much. You've got to know that. You've got to know.
KRISTINA: I know, Dad. I love you too.
GEORGE: After everything. After everything, the only thing left out of my whole life is Kristina looks at her father, smiles, and disappears. There was no Kristina. The guard continues to tap.
GUARD: George? George, come on. It's getting George looks up to find a prison guard. His name is GUS, and he helps George to his feet.
GEORGE: But I have a visitor.
GUS: Not today, George. Time to go back.
GEORGE: But I want to put her name on the list for tomorrow. My daughter.
GUS: Okay, George.
GEORGE: Because she's visiting me.
GUS: We'll do that tomorrow, okay? It's lockdown time. The shadows grow long, and Gus leads George down a cement path that cuts through the grass. The huge structure of Otisville looms dark against the sky, and Gus and George take the long walk back.
