WITH TITLES: DISSOLVE TO: 1. EXT. BEAUMONTS' FRONT LAWN - DAY Blue skies. PAN SLOWLY DOWN to clean white picket fence, with beautiful red roses in front of it. Birds CHIRP in the distance. A faint sprinkler SOUND is heard. Very sweet MUSIC is playing.
GREGG'S MOTHER: ( calling out ) Gregg. Billy's waiting for his teddy. She then turns to look out.
GREGG'S MOTHER: ( continuing ) GREGG! Billy's waiting for his teddy, honey.
TOM!!!: CUT TO: 13. EXT. COLLEGE CAMPUS BUILDING - NIGHT TRAVELING along sidewalk, bushes, to lighted windows of an auditorium. MUSIC is heard.
COLLEGE BOY: Louise? Where's Jeffrey? His mother's on the phone - it's an emergency.
LOUISE: He disappeared to the men's room a little while ago. I'm getting very tired of waiting - let's go find him.
JEFFREY: Hey, shit head. Leave her alone. Don't force girls! The couple looks up but cannot see Jeffrey. The boy is scared and releases the girl who promptly pulls farther away, crying. Jeffrey leaves the furnace room.
COLLEGE BOY: Jeffrey, your mother's on the phone. It's an emergency.
LOUISE: Thanks for keeping me waiting so long. As Jeffrey moves quickly toward the telephone.
JEFFREY: 17. INT. PHONE/HALLWAY - COLLEGE - NIGHT The phone dangles on its cord in the foreground as Jeffrey moves toward it in the background. Louise slowly follows Jeffrey, but stays in back of him. Jeffrey picks up the phone.
JEFFREY: Hello. Mom? What's wrong with Dad?. What's happening?. Come home? Sure I will.
MRS. BEAUMONT: I mean, for good, Jeffrey.
JEFFREY: For good?. I can't. Mom. Not right in the middle of the term.
MRS. BEAUMONT: ( now looks very tired and Jeffrey. honey. Your father's condition is serious. It's going to cost so much. We just won't have the money to keep you in school. I'm telling you this now, so that you can get your things together and check out of school, honey, or whatever you have to do. it'll save you another trip back. You're going to have to work at the store.
JEFFREY: ( crying ) CUT TO:
JEFFREY: Can't you come to the damn airport?
LOUISE: Jeffrey. I can't. I really can't. I have to go to that class tonight. I can't get out of it. I really can't. I love you, Jeffrey. I'll miss you.
JEFFREY: Alright. I'll call you in a couple of days, you know. I'll let you know how things are.
LOUISE: Okay. I'll be here. You better git-going. I gotta go too sweetie. I hope your father's okay. I love you. I'm sorry, Jeffrey.
JEFFREY: I love you too, Louise. Damn it. I'll see you. They kiss.
JEFFREY: Hi Mom. Hi Aunt Barbara. They AD LIB hellos.
MRS. BEAUMONT: ( a bit concerned ) Where's all your things, Jeffrey?
JEFFREY: This is it. Mrs. Beaumont looks at Jeffrey.
JEFFREY: I sent a trunk home yesterday. This is all I have.
AUNT BARBARA: You look good, Jeffrey. Did you have a nice Yeah. How's Dad?
JEFFREY: Yeah. How's Dad?
MRS. BEAUMONT: He's alright. We'll tell you on the way home.
MRS. BEAUMONT: He had a cerebral hemorrhage and they think there's some sort of clot, or tumor, or something in there. They're doing all sorts of tests. On the surface, he looks pretty good, but there are problems. They think he may have to stay in two weeks now, at least. You can go see him though tomorrow, Jeffrey.
AUNT BARBARA: They tore down the A see that?
JEFFREY: Aunt Barbara that was 5 years ago.
AUNT BARBARA: Home again, home again, jiggidy jog. They look at Jeffrey. He looks at them.
MRS. BEAUMONT: Jeffrey, breakfast is ready.
AUNT BARBARA: This is marvelous jam. Are you going this I think Jeffrey would like to see his father Jeffrey comes down the stairs. Everyone says their "good mornings," and Jeffrey sits down to breakfast.
MRS. BEAUMONT: I think Jeffrey would like to see his father Jeffrey comes down the stairs. Everyone says their "good mornings," and Jeffrey sits down to breakfast.
JEFFREY: What time are visiting hours?
MRS. BEAUMONT: I've made arrangements with Dr. Gynde for 10:30. But Jeffrey, you'll have to walk over; I need the car this morning.
JEFFREY: Well. Okay.
MRS. BEAUMONT: Jeffrey, when you see your father.
JEFFREY: MRS. BEAUMONT He doesn't know you're out of school. He thinks it's a vacation for you.
MRS. BEAUMONT: He doesn't know you're out of school. He thinks it's a vacation for you.
JEFFREY: MRS. BEAUMONT It would be too much for him. So please let him think as he does, that you're home just to see him.
MRS. BEAUMONT: It would be too much for him. So please let him think as he does, that you're home just to see him.
JEFFREY: Thanks a lot, Mom.
MRS. BEAUMONT: .Jeffrey!. Nobody wanted you to leave school and go to work in the store. maybe going back to school will be an option one day. I hope so.
AUNT BARBARA: I think it's important not to get depressed. Depression is a terrible thing. They say it can bring on illness.
JEFFREY: ( angry ) Aunt Barbara. I'll try not to get depressed.
NURSE CINDY: Please wait outside while Dr. Gynde prepares him to see you.
JEFFREY: Prepares him? She peers into the room. Jeffrey does too.
DR. GYNDE: Hello Jeffrey.
JEFFREY: Hello, Doctor Gynde. How is he?
DR. GYNDE: He's fighting hard. Jeffrey. it's very important that your father doesn't try to move. he's been immobilized. It would be very painful for him. sit close. you do the talking and moving. He knows you're here. He became very emotional. I don't think he likes the idea of you seeing him like this. Nurse Cindy goes to the bed. She begins to pull the curtains back revealing Mr. Beaumont.
NURSE CINDY: ( smiling a big smile ) Mr. Beaumont! Your son is here to visit you. Then we see Mr. Beaumont. He has numerous tubes and needles going into different parts of him. A stainless steel device holds his head perfectly still. Nurse Cindy picks up a tray and leaves.
JEFFREY: ( shocked but concealing it ) Hi Dad.
MR. BEAUMONT: ( speaking as plainly as possible, but sounds like mumbling ) Hey Jeff. Jeffrey goes to him and puts out his hand to shake his father's hand but remembers his father cannot move. Jeffrey pats him on the shoulder.
JEFFREY: Looks like they've got you strapped in pretty good.
MR. BEAUMONT: ( lips moving but hardly any sound ) uh uh.
JEFFREY: Are you feeling okay?
MR. BEAUMONT: ( more mumbling ) uh uh. Tears well up in Mr. Beaumont's eyes. Before Jeffrey can stop him he reaches for Jeffrey's hand, then struggling against tremendous pain he manages to form words.
MR. BEAUMONT: ( more plainly but under strain ) Good to see you, son.
JEFFREY: ( holding back tears ) It's good to see you, Dad. Jeffrey squeezes his father's hand.
JEFFREY: Hello. could you tell me if Detective Williams is still working here?
POLICE OFFICER: He's up in Room 221. Right up the stairs.
JEFFREY: Are you Detective Williams?
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: My name is Jeffrey Beaumont - I live near you. I believe you know my father, Tom Beaumont - Beaumont's Hardware Store?
JEFFREY: My name is Jeffrey Beaumont - I live near you. I believe you know my father, Tom Beaumont - Beaumont's Hardware Store?
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: Sure I do. I understand he's in the hospital. How is he?
JEFFREY: He's alright, I guess. I hope. They're doing tests, that's why I'm home from school. I was over at the hospital this morning and I was going home and in the field behind our neighborhood. there behind Vista, I found an ear.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: ( matter of factly ) You did? A human ear?
JEFFREY: Yeah. I've got it here in this bag. I thought I should bring it to you.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: Yep, that's right. Let's take a look at it. Jeffrey opens the bag and lets Detective Williams look inside.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: ( continuing ) That sure looks like a human ear, doesn't it?. Let's run it down to the Coroner's Office and see what they make of it. Then, I want you to show me exactly where you found it.
CORONER'S OFFICER: The tests will take awhile. Meanwhile, we'll check the morgue records. I don't recall anything coming in minus an ear. The Coroner's Officer turns to Jeffrey.
CORONER'S OFFICER: ( continuing ) Now if you'd found a jaw or let's say, a heart, or even an arm, we would assume that there was a corpse, however, a finger or an ear. the person may very well be alive somewhere.
JEFFREY: What can you tell about the person from the Well. when the tests are done, quite a lot . Sex, blood type, whether or not the ear came off a dead person. Right now, I know what you know. It's a real human ear. The human was, or is, Caucasian. . also. It looks like the ear was cut off with scissors.
CORONER'S OFFICER: Well. when the tests are done, quite a lot . Sex, blood type, whether or not the ear came off a dead person. Right now, I know what you know. It's a real human ear. The human was, or is, Caucasian. . also. It looks like the ear was cut off with scissors.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: By the way, Jeffrey, this story isn't going to the press and I'm going to ask you to consider all you've heard strictly confidential. Do not discuss this business with anyone, but me, or other police personnel. Got it?
JEFFREY: Got it. Thanks for letting me in on as much as you did.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: Come on. I'll drive you home. It's on my way.
JEFFREY: Hello?. LOUISE WERTHAM please. Louise? . is she there?. Louise? Yeah! How are you? He's okay. in the hospital for tests. I miss you so much. What have you been up to?. Louise, I don't know. I've got to see how my father is . It costs a fortune in that hospital. When did he ask you to that?. Look. I can't stop you. Go ahead. Just go ahead . I may never be back, go. ahead. Look Louise, stop trying to explain everything. Just do it. let's talk again in a couple of days or somethin', okay?. Yeah, I still love you. Goodbye Louise. Goodbye. Jeffrey sits alone in his room, thinking things over.
JEFFREY: I'm going out for awhile.
MRS. BEAUMONT: ( looks at her watch ) Do you want the car?
JEFFREY: No, I'm just gonna walk around.
MRS. BEAUMONT: AUNT BARBARA Jeffrey. you're not going down by Lincoln, are you?
AUNT BARBARA: Jeffrey. you're not going down by Lincoln, are you?
JEFFREY: ( yelling back ) No. I'm just going to walk around the neighborhood. Don't worry. Aunt Barbara and Mrs. Beaumont continue watching the television.
JEFFREY: Hello. uh. my name is Jeffrey Beaumont. Is Detective Williams in?
MRS. WILLIAMS: Oh, yes, Jeffrey. Come in. He'll be back any minute now. You're welcome to wait. Is it urgent?
JEFFREY: I just wanted to ask him a few questions, that's all. Maybe I better go.
MRS. WILLIAMS: Really, he'll be home soon, would you like a cup of coffee?
JEFFREY: ( thinks a bit ) 48. INT. WILLIAMS' KITCHEN - NIGHT She leads him back to the kitchen where she has him sit at the kitchen table. She pours him a cup of coffee.
MRS. WILLIAMS: I was sorry to hear about your father. I know your mother from church. It's such a Yeah, I know.
JEFFREY: Yeah, I know.
MRS. WILLIAMS: Would you like a piece of cake?
JEFFREY: No. No thank you.
MRS. WILLIAMS: It's a real good chocolate cake. Duncan Hines' devil's food. real good.
JEFFREY: Yeah. okay.
MRS. WILLIAMS: Sandy and Mike come into the kitchen. Jeffrey has a big piece of chocolate cake in his mouth.
MRS. WILLIAMS: ( continuing ) Jeffery, this is my daughter, Sandy, and. her boyfriend, Mike. They all say "Hi" to one another.
SANDY: Mike's gotta go. Nice to meet you.
MIKE: Yeah, nice meetin' yuh.
JEFFREY: Yeah. It was nice meeting you too. They leave and go out the front door.
MRS. WILLIAMS: ( smiles ) He comes over to study.
JEFFREY: ( smiles big )
MRS. WILLIAMS: In the kitchen, John! Detective Williams comes into the kitchen surprised to see Jeffrey.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: Oh. Hello, Jeffrey. what's up? He kisses his wife.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: Come into the study a minute.
JEFFREY: ( getting up ) Excuse me, Mrs. Williams.
MRS. WILLIAMS: Jeffrey follows Detective Williams into his study.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: ( to Jeffrey ) Shut the door. Detective Williams speaks through the radio while Jeffrey shuts the door.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: ( continuing; in radio ) Detective Williams here. yeah. Tell him to go to Sergeant Milton. yeah, copy. ( clicks off radio, turns to Jeffrey ) Well, Jeffrey, you found something which is very interesting to us. Very interesting. I know you must be curious to know more. ( scratches the middle of his back ) But. I'm afraid I'm going to have to ask you not only not to tell anyone about your find, but also not to ask more about the case. One day. when it's all sewed up, I'll let you know all the details. Right now, though. I can't.
JEFFREY: I understand. I'm just real curious like you said.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: I was the same way when I was you age. I guess that's what got me into this business.
JEFFREY: It must be great.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: And it's horrible too. I'm sorry Jeffrey. That's the way it has to be. Anyway. I'm sure you do understand. Jeffrey studies Detective Williams' face as they walk back to the living 52. INT. WILLIAMS' LIVING ROOM - NIGHT Mrs. Williams? Thanks for the cake.
JEFFREY: ( calling into the kitchen ) Mrs. Williams? Thanks for the cake.
MRS. WILLIAMS: ( coming out from the kitchen ) Oh, you're welcome. Nice to finally meet you, Jeffrey.
JEFFREY: Say "goodnight" to Sandy.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: We will. Good night. Jeffrey leaves and they shut the door behind him.
SANDY: Are you the one that found the ear. Jeffrey stops and turns around. Sandy comes up to him.
JEFFREY: Yeah, how did you know?
SANDY: ( coyly ) I just know, that's all. I remember you from Central.
JEFFREY: Oh yeah?
SANDY: You were pretty popular. Didn't you run for some office?
JEFFREY: Yeah I did. treasurer. Shouldn't you be studying or something.
SANDY: Am I bothering you?
JEFFREY: No. You're not bothering me. You a senior?
SANDY: How is Central these days?
JEFFREY: How is Central these days?
SANDY: Terrible. boring.
JEFFREY: What else is new?. right?
SANDY: Yeah. What are you doing now?
JEFFREY: I'm home from school. My father's in the That's too bad.
SANDY: That's too bad.
JEFFREY: What do you know about the ear?. anything?
SANDY: Didn't my father tell you not to talk about
JEFFREY: Come on. you brought it up. Do you know I don't really know much but bits and pieces . I hear things. My room is right above my father's office. The ear. there's no corpse in the morgue missing an ear, and it did come off a living person. That's direct from the Coroner's Office. The person is unknown. There are a couple of cases I get mixed up on, but I think there are some people who were brought in for questioning on a murder case that could have something to do with the ear. I heard some of the same names.
SANDY: I don't really know much but bits and pieces . I hear things. My room is right above my father's office. The ear. there's no corpse in the morgue missing an ear, and it did come off a living person. That's direct from the Coroner's Office. The person is unknown. There are a couple of cases I get mixed up on, but I think there are some people who were brought in for questioning on a murder case that could have something to do with the ear. I heard some of the same names.
JEFFREY: Do you know who was brought in for There were at least three, maybe four. But a name that keeps coming up is this woman who lives in an apartment building very close to your house and also close to the field where you found the ear. There's also a business man over by the Franklin factory district that was questioned. and a musician. and some others.
SANDY: There were at least three, maybe four. But a name that keeps coming up is this woman who lives in an apartment building very close to your house and also close to the field where you found the ear. There's also a business man over by the Franklin factory district that was questioned. and a musician. and some others.
JEFFREY: Were all these people questioned this No. this has been going on for some time . several months. About six months ago some parts of bodies were found down by the river. They were from people who were reported missing. They never found one complete body. only parts.
SANDY: No. this has been going on for some time . several months. About six months ago some parts of bodies were found down by the river. They were from people who were reported missing. They never found one complete body. only parts.
JEFFREY: The ear is from a missing person maybe?
SANDY: Maybe so.
JEFFREY: It's a strange world isn't it? Do you know what building the woman lives in?
SANDY: Yeah. It's close by. that's what's creepy. They've had her under surveillance for a couple of months, except I don't know what they've found out because my father isn't in charge of her.
JEFFREY: I guess you have to get back home soon?
SANDY: Not really, why? You want to see the building?. Come on, I'll show you.
SANDY: ( nodding toward building ) That's the building. She lives on the Seventh Floor. Don't stop to look long . the police are watching.
JEFFREY: Where are they?
SANDY: I don't know. you're not supposed to see them. They're supposed to see you. They begin walking slowly back to Sandy's house.
JEFFREY: Did they find out anything when they questioned her?
SANDY: I don't know. like I said, she's not my father's case.
JEFFREY: Oh yeah. What about those other people? . Anything?
SANDY: My father is watching the businessman. The businessman had a partner who disappeared. left his whole business and family, his wife and two kids. They think he's been murdered.
JEFFREY: You really do hear a lot, don't you?
SANDY: Yeah, I guess so. What are you going to do now that you're I have to help out in my father's hardware store. they're giving me sort of my own hours for a while. which is nice.
JEFFREY: I have to help out in my father's hardware store. they're giving me sort of my own hours for a while. which is nice.
SANDY: Still, it must be kinda rough.
JEFFREY: It's not bad. but it's bad enough. it's a lot worse for my father. I used to know a kid who lived there and who had the biggest tongue in the world. Jeffrey and Sandy both laugh.
SANDY: What happened to him?
JEFFREY: I don't know. he moved away.
SANDY: I've gotta go in.
JEFFREY: Thanks for the tour. It was nice talking to you. Sandy just looks at him shyly before she turns to go up the front walk.
JEFFREY: ( continuing ) I guess I'll see you sometime.
SANDY: I guess so. Like you said. It's a strange world.
JEFFREY: ( smiles ) Yeah. Good bye.
JEFFREY: Hey, Ed, okay if I borrow these bug spraying rigs later on? Ed peers into the back room. Spots Jeffrey.
ED: Listen Bud. If you need to spray for bugs they're yours. It causes me no pain.
JEFFREY: Okidoke Ed. Thanks.
JEFFREY: You hungry or thirsty, or both?
SANDY: ( taken back ) I don't know.
JEFFREY: I'd like to talk to you about something.
SANDY: Just a minute. pull over and wait a Sandy pulls her girlfriends away from Jeffrey's car and says something to them. There is some whispering and giggling and then,
SANDY: ( to the girls ) Please, don't say anything to Mike. The girls promise. Sandy goes around and gets in the car.
JEFFREY: I don't want to cause any trouble.
SANDY: I'm here, aren't I?
JEFFREY: ( smiling as though he knew ) I guess Mike's got some sort of sports practice in the afternoon.
SANDY: Ooooo, you are smart. Just don't get too 62. INT. DINER - DAY Jeffrey and Sandy are sitting in a booth. Jeffrey's grilled cheese on white bread and a coke have just arrived along with Sandy's coke.
SANDY: Alright, now tell me. What is it?
JEFFREY: There are opportunities in life for gaining knowledge and experience. sometimes, in some cases. it's necessary to take a risk. I got to thinking. I'll bet a person could learn a lot by getting into that woman's apartment. you know. sneak in and hide and observe.
SANDY: You said it was a strange world. and you're the strangest part of it. Are you crazy.she is possibly involved in murder. This gives me the creeps.
JEFFREY: Settle down. I have a plan which I think will work. There is very little for you to do, but I do need your help. .Aren't you curious about my plan?
SANDY: ( thinking and intrigued, plus she It wouldn't hurt to hear the plan, I guess.
JEFFREY: ( getting excited ) Alright. the first thing is to get into her apartment and open a window that I could crawl into later.
SANDY: Now, how are you going to do that?
JEFFREY: Right out in the car I happen to have some old overalls and a bug spraying rig. I will go to her apartment and be the pest control man. I will spray her apartment. After a few minutes you will knock on her door, drawing her attention away from me and I will then jimmy a window.
SANDY: What will I say when she comes to the door?
JEFFREY: You will be a Jehovah's Witness. I have a few "Awake" magazines for you. You don't have to keep her very long. a few seconds is all I'll need. Whatiya think?
SANDY: I don't know. it sounds like a good daydream, . but actually doing it is too weird. too dangerous.
JEFFREY: Let's just try the first part. If that goes well, we'll see about the rest. No one will suspect us, because no one would believe two people like us would be crazy enough to do something like this.
SANDY: You've got a point there.
JEFFREY: Now. we'll walk over so there's no license plates and you give me at least three minutes. I can stall if it's more, but I need time to find a good window .alright?
SANDY: Let's go.
JEFFREY: Let's go.
JEFFREY: Okay, I'm going ahead. Wait a minute, what's her name?
SANDY: Oh bother. Dorothy Vallens, Seventh Floor. Look on the mailbox for her number, bright boy.
JEFFREY: Thanks. Dorothy Vallens. Okay. good luck . three minutes, no sooner.
SANDY: Alright. Good luck, yourself. Jeffrey takes off in the direction of the apartment building.
OLD LADY: Well, it's about time you came. Jeffrey forces a smile at her and after she's gone.
JEFFREY: ( to himself ) That's a good sign. He keeps climbing. He arrives at the Seventh Floor. and finds Number 710. He knocks and waits. He looks around. the hallway is empty. DOROTHY VALLENS opens the door. She is a very beautiful woman in her late thirties. She has a beautiful full figure, dark eyes, black thick wavy hair. Full red lips. Right now, however, she looks a bit tired and a bit frumpy in an old terrycloth robe.
DOROTHY: Yes? What is it?
JEFFREY: Pest control. gotta do your apartment.
DOROTHY: Oh God, that stuff stinks.
JEFFREY: ( as he goes in ) Nope. it's new stuff. no smell.
DOROTHY: Oh yeah, that's good.
DOROTHY: What is this. Grand Central Station? She opens the door. Jeffrey looks. It's not Sandy. A MAN, with a yellow sports coat, is standing there. Jeffrey begins to sweat, because the MAN looked around Dorothy to see him. Dorothy says something to the Man which Jeffrey cannot hear. The next time Jeffrey looks up, the Man is gone. The whole thing looks to be turning out badly when Jeffrey spots a key on the counter. On a long shot, he steals it just as the front door shuts. He wraps things up and gets out.
JEFFREY: ( to Dorothy ) That oughta do it.
DOROTHY: 69. INT. STAIRWAY - APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY Jeffrey leaves. Out on the stairs, he finds Sandy with her "Awake"
SANDY: Are you alright?
JEFFREY: Yeah. let's get outta here. What As they go downstairs,
SANDY: I was just about to go to the door, when that man did my job for me. Was it alright?
JEFFREY: Yes and no. Did you recognize him?
SANDY: No. I only saw his back. He went down another stairwell at the end of the hall.
JEFFREY: I didn't get a good look at him either, but he sure looked at me. I didn't have time to get a window, but I found this key. Pretty nifty, huh?
SANDY: Yeah, if it opens the door.
JEFFREY: 70. INT. LOBBY - APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY They get to the door of the apartment building.
JEFFREY: You go first.
SANDY: So. what's next?
JEFFREY: Pretty clever. Are you game for more?
SANDY: I owe you. since I goofed up this one.
JEFFREY: You didn't goof it up, but. you still owe me one. I want to sneak in tonight. It's Friday. do you have a date tonight?
SANDY: Yes. I do.
JEFFREY: Well, it's Friday night and you're a beautiful girl. I guess you would have a date. that does that.
SANDY: You really want to do this, don't you?
JEFFREY: I don't want you to get involved, really, I mean, I do, but if something went wrong I mean, like you said, they may be involved in murder. They pull up in front of Sandy's house.
SANDY: ( making up her mind - against I'll tell Mike I'm sick. There's a game tonight anyway and he'll never miss me. Afterwards he can go out with the guys. Just so the record is kept straight though, I love Mike. What do want me to do?
JEFFREY: ( studies her a moment, then ) First of all, we'll have a nice dinner. Try to find out where Dorothy sings.
SANDY: I already know. The "Slow Club." It's on Route 7.
JEFFREY: Great. I'll pick you up around eight o'clock. Is that good?
SANDY: Yeah, but don't pick me up. my father may think it's strange. I'll walk over to your house. I'll be there at eight o'clock.
JEFFREY: Okay. You better get out before someone sees us. Sandy gets out of the car and without turning around walks into her house. Jeffrey calls out after her.
JEFFREY: See ya!
DR. GYNDE: That will take care of you, Frances, for another week. I don't want you to overdo things either. Take it very easy.
AUNT BARBARA: I'll see to it, Bill.
DR. GYNDE: MRS. BEAUMONT I feel fine.
MRS. BEAUMONT: I feel fine.
DR. GYNDE: That's not the point. You're under a great deal of stress. don't overdo it. don't be foolish. Jeffrey enters the room - to say goodnight.
JEFFREY: Doctor Gynde. my whole family's sick. What's going on?
AUNT BARBARA: I'm not sick. Jeffrey points to his head and makes a circular "crazy" gesture. They all laugh, except Aunt Barbara.
AUNT BARBARA: ( continuing ) We'll see who stays in my will. They laugh again.
JEFFREY: ( to his mother ) Can I use the car tonight?
MRS. BEAUMONT: Of course, Jeffrey. They say their goodnights.
SANDY: What's the plan.
JEFFREY: First of all, we're going to the Slow Club to see Dorothy Vallens. We'll watch her for awhile. I'd like to hear her sing anyway, and then also we'll know she is there and not in her apartment.
SANDY: Then we'll drive back to her apartment and I will plant myself there.
JEFFREY: Then we'll drive back to her apartment and I will plant myself there.
SANDY: This is not my usual Friday night!
JEFFREY: Yeah. Could we get a small table in the Surely, come this way. They follow him and are seated.
MAITRE D': May I get you something to drink?
JEFFREY: I'd like an ice-cold Heineken.
SANDY: ( she might as well ) That sounds good.
JEFFREY: MAITRE D' Two Heinekens, thank you. The Maitre d' leaves. On stage a FAT COMIC is telling jokes. The jokes are tailored for this kind of working-class crowd. The people are laughing. The place is almost full. Jeffrey and Sandy are taking it all in.
MAITRE D': Two Heinekens, thank you. The Maitre d' leaves. On stage a FAT COMIC is telling jokes. The jokes are tailored for this kind of working-class crowd. The people are laughing. The place is almost full. Jeffrey and Sandy are taking it all in.
JEFFREY: ( to Waiter ) When does Dorothy Vallens come on?
WAITER: ( flustered; overworked ) I don't know. pretty soon. Who knows. After the Waiter leaves,
SANDY: That guy was filled with information. They pour their beers.
JEFFREY: ( raising his glass ) Here's to. an interesting experience.
SANDY: I'll drink to that. They drink.
SANDY: Jeffrey, I don't think you ought to do it.
JEFFREY: Why not?
SANDY: It's crazy and dangerous. My God. I shouldn't have told you.
JEFFREY: It'll be okay. I don't think you should wait out here though. I think you should go home. Can you drive this car?
SANDY: Yeah. but.
JEFFREY: Leave it in the front of your house for me. Could you wait a little while. this key may not fit.
SANDY: Could you wait a little while. this key may not fit.
JEFFREY: Could you wait a little while. this key may not fit.
SANDY: . I wish you wouldn't do this. It doesn't make any sense. Let's go somewhere and have some coffee.
JEFFREY: I'm going in, Sandy. I'll see you tomorrow and tell you how it went.
SANDY: I. I don't want to see you tomorrow. Mike's coming over.
JEFFREY: Oh, okay. can I call?
SANDY: Okay. yeah, call.
JEFFREY: Look. it can wait till Sunday.
SANDY: Call tomorrow. It's okay. Good luck. I hope you can sneak out okay. You're going to wait until she's asleep?
JEFFREY: I'm going to wait here until she comes.
SANDY: I'm going to wait here until she comes.
JEFFREY: Are you sure?
SANDY: I'll honk four times so you'll hear it and know she's on her way up. Okay? Jeffrey nods.
JEFFREY: Okay. thanks.
SANDY: I don't know if you're a detective or a That's for me to know and for you to find out. I'll see you. I mean call you. okay?
JEFFREY: That's for me to know and for you to find out. I'll see you. I mean call you. okay?
SANDY: Okay, okay. Bye. Jeffrey gets out of the car and shuts the door. He looks in one more time at Sandy. They stare at each other silently. Jeffrey can see her lips in the black darkness of the car. Sandy watches him cross the lawn and go into the apartment building. She slides over and sits in the driver's seat.
JEFFREY: ( to himself ) Oh no, hurry up Dorothy. Come on!. and I gotta pee. Great. it's now or never. Jeffrey sneaks out of the closet and makes his way across the bedroom to the door of the bathroom. His foot hits the door and it makes a loud noise. He freezes.
JEFFREY: CUT TO: 86. INT. BEAUMONTS' CAR/LINCOLN STREET - NIGHT Suddenly Sandy sits up alert.
DOROTHY: Goodnight now. The front door shuts and the living room lights go on. Jeffrey can see Dorothy come toward him. She walks RIGHT UP, almost to his face, when the phone RINGS. She turns immediately and goes to answer it. Jeffrey almost passes out. He thought he'd had it. He overhears.
JIMMY: Goodnight now. The front door shuts and the living room lights go on. Jeffrey can see Dorothy come toward him. She walks RIGHT UP, almost to his face, when the phone RINGS. She turns immediately and goes to answer it. Jeffrey almost passes out. He thought he'd had it. He overhears.
DOROTHY: ( on the phone ) Hello. yes. yes sir, Frank. Let me talk to him. Please Frank, sir. I like to sing Blue Velvet. Don? It's okay. Don't worry. Don??. can you hear me? Is little Donny OK? Is he there? Don? You mean Meadow Lane? Frank?! What's the matter with him? I know. When? Okay. In an hour. I'll be sweet. Momma loves you. Okay Frank, sir. She hangs up the phone hard and puts her head in her hands.
DOROTHY: ( to herself ) Frank, you son of a bitch! She goes and sits down and starts chewing a fingernail. She nervously gets up again and looks at a framed photograph for a moment then hides the photograph under a pillow on the couch. She puts on a record, "FOR YOUR PRECIOUS LOVE." She sits back down and chews her nail again, listening to the MUSIC; she starts to cry. She stops herself and takes the record off. She starts taking off her stocking. She then takes off her dress. Underneath, she has on a bra and panties. She crosses the living room, goes down the hallway into the bathroom. Jeffrey can't see her too well now. She takes off her panties in the bathroom. She is now naked. She looks at herself in the mirror. We see Jeffrey's face as he watches her. She disappears from view completely and we HEAR her start a SHOWER.
DOROTHY: ( crazy scream, then ) GET OUT OF THERE!! GET OUT!! Put your hands up, on your head. GO ON!! Get down on your knees - DO IT!! What are you doing? Who are you? What's your name?.
JEFFREY: Jeffrey. Jeffrey what?
DOROTHY: Jeffrey. Jeffrey what?
JEFFREY: Jeffrey nothing.
DOROTHY: You tell me!! Let me see that wallet. Jeffrey Beaumont. What're you doing in my apartment, Jeffrey Beaumont?
JEFFREY: I wanted to see you.
DOROTHY: What? Are you kidding me? Who sent you Shit. You better tell me something.
JEFFREY: Shit. You better tell me something.
DOROTHY: Shit. You better tell me something.
JEFFREY: I was. an experiment. Just to see if I could do it.
DOROTHY: An experiment? Hey, I've seen you before.
JEFFREY: I sprayed your apartment. I took your key. I really didn't mean to do anything but see you.
DOROTHY: Tell me what you saw tonight. TELL ME.
JEFFREY: ( scared, nervous ) . I saw you come in, talk on the phone. get undressed.
DOROTHY: ( interrupting ) The phone. What did you hear on the phone . Tell me. Word for word.
JEFFREY: ( trying to remember ) You said hello. to Frank. You wanted to talk to someone?. Don?. and little Donny. You said something about Momma loves you. and something about a Meadow Lane. something in an hour. I don't remember any more. Dorothy stares at Jeffrey studying him for some time thinking.
DOROTHY: That's right. That's what I said. You have a good memory. Then what?
JEFFREY: THEN WHAT? Then you got undressed.
DOROTHY: THEN WHAT? Then you got undressed.
THEN WHAT?: Then you got undressed.
JEFFREY: Then you got undressed.
DOROTHY: How many times have you sneaked into girls' apartments and watched them undress?
JEFFREY: ( quietly; feeling guilty ) Never before this.
DOROTHY: How'd you like it if someone sneaked into your house and watched you. Get undressed. I want to see you.
JEFFREY: No. Come on.
DOROTHY: NO, you come on. Take off your pants. I want to see you.
JEFFREY: Look. I'm sorry. Just let me leave.
DOROTHY: No way. Dorothy moves to the kitchen counter and gets a knife. She goes to Jeffrey. Now she has a knife and a gun. He's scared.
DOROTHY: Get undressed. I want to see you. Jeffrey begins to undress. First he takes off his shoes and socks, Then his shirt. He undoes his belt and unzips his pants and takes them off. Now he is only in his underwear.
DOROTHY: STAND UP. He does.
DOROTHY: ( continuing ) Come closer. Dorothy has a strange look on her face. She reaches out and pulls Jeffrey's underpants down to his knees. She looks at him.
DOROTHY: ( whispering ) What do you want from me?
JEFFREY: ( quietly, getting very hot ) I . I don't know.
DOROTHY: ( whispering ) What do you want? Dorothy is getting very DREAMY and begins to talk in a childlike voice. She opens her robe and pulls Jeffrey to her breasts.
DOROTHY: Don't move. don't look at me. Jeffrey's eyes close with nervous ecstasy as Dorothy begins touching him.
DOROTHY: Do you like that?
JEFFREY: He tries to touch her.
DOROTHY: Don't move or I'll kill you. She looks at him.
DOROTHY: ( continuing ) Do you like talk like that?
JEFFREY: Lie down on the bed. He lies down. He looks frightened. There's a KNOCK, KNOCK on the door. Dorothy looks VERY frightened. She quickly moves a finger to her lips in a "quiet" sign and whispers to Shut up. Hurry! Go in the closet. Don't say anything or you'll get killed. I mean KNOCKING is heard louder at the door. Jeffrey picks up all his clothes and gets in the closet. He's naked and hiding in the closet. Dorothy closes her robe and glides to the front door. Jeffrey sees FRANK come in. Frank is medium height and stocky with a burr hair cut. He is wearing a tight blue t-shirt and an old black sports jacket. He's got on a pair of blue jeans and boots. He has a raw, mean sexuality - a "bomb about to go off" - presence. He comes into the room slowly, always looking at Dorothy. He sits on the Hello, baby.
DOROTHY: Lie down on the bed. He lies down. He looks frightened. There's a KNOCK, KNOCK on the door. Dorothy looks VERY frightened. She quickly moves a finger to her lips in a "quiet" sign and whispers to Shut up. Hurry! Go in the closet. Don't say anything or you'll get killed. I mean KNOCKING is heard louder at the door. Jeffrey picks up all his clothes and gets in the closet. He's naked and hiding in the closet. Dorothy closes her robe and glides to the front door. Jeffrey sees FRANK come in. Frank is medium height and stocky with a burr hair cut. He is wearing a tight blue t-shirt and an old black sports jacket. He's got on a pair of blue jeans and boots. He has a raw, mean sexuality - a "bomb about to go off" - presence. He comes into the room slowly, always looking at Dorothy. He sits on the Hello, baby.
DOROTHY: ( whispers, frantic ) Shut up. Hurry! Go in the closet. Don't say anything or you'll get killed. I mean KNOCKING is heard louder at the door. Jeffrey picks up all his clothes and gets in the closet. He's naked and hiding in the closet. Dorothy closes her robe and glides to the front door. Jeffrey sees FRANK come in. Frank is medium height and stocky with a burr hair cut. He is wearing a tight blue t-shirt and an old black sports jacket. He's got on a pair of blue jeans and boots. He has a raw, mean sexuality - a "bomb about to go off" - presence. He comes into the room slowly, always looking at Dorothy. He sits on the Hello, baby.
DOROTHY: Hello, baby.
FRANK: ( annoyed, condescending )
DOROTHY: Hello, daddy.
FRANK: ( can't-you-remember- . my bourbon. Dorothy goes into the kitchen to get Frank his drink. As she passes the closet, Jeffrey can see the fear in her face. She returns with a small glass of bourbon and hands it to Frank. Frank sips on it.
FRANK: . sit down. get your chair. Dorothy brings a small chair over from the wall and sits down. She adjusts her robe.
FRANK: ( studying her ) . spread your legs. Dorothy slowly spreads her legs. She can see Jeffrey staring out of the darkness of the closet at her.
FRANK: She opens her legs wider. Frank looks at her crotch and drinks his bourbon. He stares at the floor for a moment, then slowly looks back at Dorothy, her body - her crotch. Dorothy looks up at the ceiling, waiting. Frank suddenly reaches to his belt, where he has a small canister and a mask. He opens a valve on the canister and places the mask over his nose and mouth. The canister is filled with helium, which makes Frank's voice very high and strange sounding. The result is frightening.
FRANK: ( high voice ) . mommy. Dorothy jumps. She keeps looking at the ceiling.
FRANK: ( continuing, with high voice )
DOROTHY: ( frightened ) . mommy's here.
FRANK: ( high voice ) Baby wants to fuck. Then, Frank's voice goes to normal.
FRANK: ( normal voice, but loud - like
FRANK: ( high voice ) Baby wants blue velvet. Dorothy opens her robe and gives a part of the robe to Frank.
DOROTHY: ( whispering ) Frank slowly moves Frank slowly moves his mouth to the robe and runs his lips along the texture of the velvet. His hands rub the velvet and feel Dorothy's body underneath. His hands start feeling her breasts as he sucks and bites the velvet robe. Dorothy is very frightened but she is getting hot in spite of her fear. Then Frank, in a sort of sickening way, pulls Dorothy down to rug. He warns her.
FRANK: Don't look at me! He begins stuffing part of the robe into her mouth. Then, he pushes her arms back and she keeps them back, letting Frank have his way. Frank sucks and bites the velvet coming out of her mouth, while he pinches and feels her breasts in a strange, compulsive, timidly sickening way. Dorothy is moaning. Frank is breathing very heavily. He feels her crotch.
FRANK: Don't look at me!!! Daddy's home. He starts stuffing the robe in his mouth now and he gets on top of Dorothy. He starts humping her and pulling her nude body up and down him. Faster and faster, then he has a climax in his pants. Dorothy's head is falling back. She can see Jeffrey blurred in the distance - in the closet. Cautiously, she looks sideways at Frank.
FRANK: ( screaming ) Don't look at me!!! He slugs her in the face. His nose is running and he's stifling sobs from deep within him. On his hands and knees, he moves away. The robe pulls out of his mouth. His breathing is even heavier now. He stands and begins to move around the apartment. He goes to a wall, turns off the lights, then turns and walks into the bathroom, all the while breathing big, heavy breaths, trying to stop the crying. Dorothy moans softly. It gets very quiet and still for a moment. Then, Jeffrey hears Frank with his high helium voice talking to himself in the bathroom. The high, strange sound reverberates in the distance. Jeffrey can't make it out - soon, he hears Frank's high laughing. Frank comes back into the living room. The mask is around his face. All his breathing - every sound is high . He laughs a little and crosses the darkened room to the door.
FRANK: Stay alive baby. See you next Christmas! Frank leaves and shuts the door. The apartment is silent except for Dorothy's moans. Jeffrey is stunned. He doesn't move. He watches Dorothy in the half-light. She rolls over and starts crying. The crying is deep and Slowly, Jeffrey emerges from the closet and goes to her. He bends down and touches her. She flinches and turns to see him. She turns back sobbing. He tries to get her up.
JEFFREY: Why don't you come lie down. Come on, I'll help you. She struggles up with Jeffrey's help and he takes her over to the bed. She falls down on her side, turned toward the wall. He covers her with the sheet.
DOROTHY: ( referring to the sheet ) I don't like that. What do you want?
JEFFREY: Nothing. Are you alright?
DOROTHY: Sure I'm alright.
JEFFREY: I'll go then. He starts to put on his underwear. They're inside out. He tries to turn them around.
DOROTHY: Don. Hold me. I'm scared. Hold me. Jeffrey turns to her. He studies her. He reaches out and takes her shoulders. He moves down and holds her.
JEFFREY: Don. Hold me. I'm scared. Hold me. Jeffrey turns to her. He studies her. He reaches out and takes her shoulders. He moves down and holds her.
DOROTHY: Don. Hold me. I'm scared. Hold me. Jeffrey turns to her. He studies her. He reaches out and takes her shoulders. He moves down and holds her.
DOROTHY: ( whispering ) Thank you. honey.
JEFFREY: ( whispering ) It's okay. It's okay. They lie together for a long silent moment.
DOROTHY: Do you like the way I feel?
JEFFREY: ( hesitates ) See my breasts? . See? Jeffrey looks.
DOROTHY: See my breasts? . See? Jeffrey looks.
JEFFREY: See my nipples?
DOROTHY: See my nipples?
JEFFREY: ( whispering ) You can kiss them if you want. Fell them . They're getting hard. Jeffrey starts to move closer. Dorothy closes her eyes.
DOROTHY: ( whispering ) You can kiss them if you want. Fell them . They're getting hard. Jeffrey starts to move closer. Dorothy closes her eyes.
DOROTHY: ( continuing ) Go ahead. I don't mind. Jeffrey can't help himself. He licks and sucks her nipples and feels her breasts. They both are getting very hot.
DOROTHY: Feel me. Jeffrey is all over her now. Dorothy suddenly seems to recognize him.
DOROTHY: You can hit me, if you want to.
JEFFREY: No. please. I won't. Dorothy arches back and whining she throws her head back hard against the Stop it! She moves and won't let him feel her anymore. She holds his hands away.
JEFFREY: Stop it! She moves and won't let him feel her anymore. She holds his hands away.
DOROTHY: ( whispering ) Do you like me?
JEFFREY: ( whispering ) Yes, I like you.
DOROTHY: ( whispering ) You can be my special friend and come and put that in me. They start making love. Suddenly, Dorothy starts crying.
JEFFREY: What's the matter? Suddenly Dorothy slaps Jeffrey in the face. very hard.
DOROTHY: Get off me. Jeffrey gets off her, pressing his hand to his face. Dorothy goes into the bathroom crying all the way. Jeffrey sits, confused. Suddenly Jeffrey hears a horrible scream from Dorothy. A true scream of horror. He rushes into the bathroom to see what is wrong.
DOROTHY: I made it go down the toilet.
JEFFREY: He looks in the swirling water. It looks like an ear revolving around and around then whatever it is disappears.
DOROTHY: I made it go down the toilet. Jeffrey looks up. he sees written with a bar of soap the words "look down" on the mirror. He looks down into the sink. At the bottom he sees a small clot of blood and a smear of fresher blood. Jeffrey suddenly remembers mentally Frank's high helium voice reverberating in the bathroom.
FLASHBACK: Frank in bathroom.
FLASHBACK: Frank at door saying "see you next Christmas."
JEFFREY: ( inner voice ) Next Christmas. Is he Santa Claus who has left a present for Dorothy? What was it? An ear? Another ear?!! ( out loud, to Dorothy ) What was it?
DOROTHY: ( strangely - extremely frightened Do you know?
JEFFREY: ( breathing heavily, strangely ) You don't?
DOROTHY: ( breathing heavily, strangely ) You don't?
JEFFREY: No. What is happening?
DOROTHY: Maybe you don't know. I know you though. You're Jeffrey Beaumont and I know where you live and I know ways to get you and I know ways to kill you.
JEFFREY: Please don't talk like that. You're upset. I'm not helping you. I'm sorry for what I did. I better go.
DOROTHY: Go then. I can't let you put it in me now but I want you. I like you.
JEFFREY: Then don't talk about killing.
DOROTHY: Did I say that?. I didn't mean it. or did I? Sometimes I think it would be fun. Go ahead, you better leave now. I can't open myself to you now. I'll tell you a little I want to die.
JEFFREY: Don't say that.
DOROTHY: It's a secret so don't tell anyone. Some day I'll show you where. I've gotta go to sleep
JEFFREY: ( frightened by her craziness )
JEFFREY: I'm leaving now. She is whispering something to herself.
DOROTHY: ( very faint whisper ) Help me. help me. please help me. Jeffrey doesn't know what he can do.
JEFFREY: ( startled ) God. you scared me.
MRS. BEAUMONT: Is something wrong? What's happened to your face?
JEFFREY: Nothing. I'm fine.
MRS. BEAUMONT: You can't just stay out half the night and carry on, Jeffrey. There's got to be some order, Jeffrey. I thought it would have been nice to call your father when you got home but now it is much too late.
JEFFREY: Louise Wertham, please. okay. Louise?. Jeffrey. Hi. What's up? MARRIED?! Good night! Louise! Are you kidding? Well, Louise, I wish you a lot of luck and if things don't work out, I think you should go into comedy. Jeffrey hangs up the phone hard. He shakes his head.
JEFFREY: ( to himself, out loud ) How can I help her? I can't tell her to go to Detective Williams. She'll think I'm a policeman. She has my address. She can go there. if she has to. I'll tell her. and her. and she thinks I'm Don. her husband? Where the hell is Don? - maybe he died. Jeffrey dials the phone.
JEFFREY: Hello?. Mrs. Williams?. This is Jeffrey Beaumont. Fine. Okay. Is Sandy there? Okay. Hi Sandy. Can you talk? He is?. Well, I guess I'll talk to you later on. It went okay. I'll tell you about it. Dinner?. Tomorrow night? Seven o'clock, yeah, sounds good. Okay. he's still in the hospital. Okay, yeah. See you tomorrow. thanks.
DR. GYNDE: The BLOOD is seen in CLOSEUP. Cells are moving. The Doctor makes a change in magnification. The cells are huge - then, even bigger. They are so big we can hear them moving.
JEFFREY: A table in back, please.
MAITRE D': Dorothy is singing her opening song as the Maitre d' seats Jeffrey.
JEFFREY: I'll have an ice-cold Heineken.
MAITRE D': One Heineken, certainly, sir. Jeffrey surveys the place after the Maitre d' leaves. It is very dark and smoky inside. He has trouble seeing, but suddenly he spots Frank sitting with some other GUYS watching Dorothy sing. They are sitting two tables Frank is totally captivated by Dorothy's singing and is very serious- looking. He looks right up to her eyes. In his hand he works a small piece of blue velvet cloth with his fingers. Again her first number, "BLUE MOON," segues into "BLUE VELVET." This song she sings mainly to Frank. When it is over Frank continues watching Dorothy and everyone else applauds loudly. Jeffrey drinks up his Heineken and goes back outside.
JEFFREY: ( out loud to himself ) I'll bet I know where you're going. He follows Frank as he pulls out.
JEFFREY: ( thinking out loud ) I shouldn't go in. I shouldn't. but I'm too curious. and I have to try to help her.
JEFFREY: Hi. can I come in?
DOROTHY: ( looking around the hallway ) Yeah. hurry up though. They go inside.
JEFFREY: Are you alright? Dorothy breaks down crying.
DOROTHY: No. I'm not. Jeffrey goes to her.
DOROTHY: Why are you here. whatiya want?
JEFFREY: . I. uh.
DOROTHY: ( still crying ) I looked for you in my closet tonight. ( a little laugh ) It's crazy, I don't know where you came from but. I like you.
JEFFREY: That's not crazy. I like you too. Dorothy looks up. They stare at each other for some time.
DOROTHY: I liked being with you last night.
JEFFREY: . same here. There is a loud knocking on the door.
DOROTHY: ( she starts to stagger ) Oh shit.
JEFFREY: ( frightened ) Frank? .can you stand up?
DOROTHY: I'm alright. go hide. This won't take long. Be quiet. Jeffrey gets in the closet and Dorothy closes the door. She holds her head collecting her fragile self. Dorothy goes to the door and opens it. It's the Man with the Yellow Sports Coat - tonight he's wearing a purple sports coat and light blue double knit pants. His eyes are glazed and his face is broken out in a sweat.
YELLOW MAN: Frank gone?
DOROTHY: Yeah. but get outta here. He's comin' Alright, suit yourself.
YELLOW MAN: Alright, suit yourself.
DOROTHY: Alright, suit yourself.
YELLOW MAN: He's comin' back?. What for?
DOROTHY: ( shaking ) 'Cause he's comin' back, that's what for. Frank's got you really loaded tonight.
YELLOW MAN: ( getting upset ) Yeah, maybe so. Frank's got me. and you. and really it's all thanks to Don. isn't it. remember that. Your husband was the one who started fucking my mind with drugs.
DOROTHY: Oh he forced you, huh?
YELLOW MAN: He's the reformed dealer though who wanted to turn himself in. he's the one that caused Frank to come and Frank's fucking us real good. I just feel so horny. I'm supposed to be here watching you why can't I be here fucking you. Listen. I know his cock's the size of a pin - let me give you the real thing. let me wet my whistle, baby.
DOROTHY: ( cool, but real mad ) No way. get out. I'm gonna tell Frank. I'm gonna tell him what you said.
YELLOW MAN: Okay, I'm goin'. You'll see. I'll get you. Dorothy kicks the door after he closes it, then she chains it. Jeffrey comes out of the closet.
JEFFREY: ( talking softly ) Nice guy. Who's he?
DOROTHY: Who's it, you mean. SUDDENLY, Dorothy starts to shake and cry. Jeffrey grabs her and shakes her and holds her tight to him. She starts sobbing again.
DOROTHY: ( continuing ) Oh God. Don!!! Why can't I just die.
JEFFREY: ( quietly, soothing her ) There you go again. stop saying that. You can make it.
DOROTHY: I can't. I can't. You think you know so much.
JEFFREY: Take it easy. What's goin' on anyway?. Why are you in so much trouble? Dorothy is sobbing and Jeffrey is holding her. There is a long silence and she calms down.
DOROTHY: ( whispering ) I. don't. okay. Just don't. just be with me. ( now very strangely ) Oh God. Come with me. Who are you. Come up here. Dorothy takes Jeffrey through the kitchen and out the back.
DOROTHY: ( as she stares down ) ( turning to her quickly ) ( continuing to look down, her No. Please, Dorothy. Why are you in so much trouble? He moves closer to her.
JEFFREY: ( turning to her quickly ) ( continuing to look down, her No. Please, Dorothy. Why are you in so much trouble? He moves closer to her.
DOROTHY: ( continuing to look down, her No. Please, Dorothy. Why are you in so much trouble? He moves closer to her.
JEFFREY: No. Please, Dorothy. Why are you in so much trouble? He moves closer to her.
JEFFREY: ( continuing ) Who is Don?
DOROTHY: ( very crazy and angry ) Don?. Are you in with them?
JEFFREY: ( whispering )
DOROTHY: Why are you so interested? Why do you keep asking me?
JEFFREY: I came back to help you. You said do I let girls sneak into my house. You know where I live. if you need to. come to where I live. O.K.?
DOROTHY: Who are you? Maybe I'll need to. you like me, huh?
JEFFREY: ( whispering ) . or do you just want me? I'm going to let you enter me now.
DOROTHY: ( whispering ) . or do you just want me? I'm going to let you enter me now.
JEFFREY: No. I should go.
DOROTHY: Please. please stay. She makes him kiss her. he really likes it. Once again, Jeffrey and Dorothy get VERY HOT. Dorothy and Jeffrey lie down on the roof. Dorothy cries out suddenly and bangs her head hard again and again against the Why Dorothy? We move very close to Jeffrey's ear as Dorothy's lips come up and whisper into it.
JEFFREY: Why Dorothy? We move very close to Jeffrey's ear as Dorothy's lips come up and whisper into it.
DOROTHY: Don? I have to make it hurt. I want there to be nothing again. Don!!! She reaches up and clutches Jeffrey then pulls him down with a feverish kiss. Lightening cracks above them and the wind howls.
JEFFREY: Will you tell Mom when she gets home from the hospital that I've gone to dinner at Sandy Williams' house?
AUNT BARBARA: Okay honey. that sounds nice. Jeffrey. I think you've got termites in the house.
JEFFREY: Oh yeah?. Have you seen any?
AUNT BARBARA: I've seen a few.
JEFFREY: Well, I haven't seen any. I wouldn't worry about it. Look. I better go.
AUNT BARBARA: Okay honey. Jeffrey leaves and Aunt Barbara moves about tapping on the walls. She moves into a dark area and taps. Something falls. She reaches down. In EXTREME CLOSEUP we see a termite walking by her shoe on the thick carpet. Then in EXTREME CLOSEUP we see Aunt Barbara's fingers pinch the termite and bring it up in front of her thick glasses for a look. She looks at the termite, then looks back at the walls. We GLIDE ALONG the dark walls of the house.
SANDY: We thank you in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen. They start passing food around.
MIKE: Like I was saying. if you toss the ball like this, with your fingers just down here, that thing'll spin like a beauty. real straight.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: ( teasing him ) Yeah? Then how come nobody caught anything last week?.
MIKE: ( not laughing ) 'Cause we had a bad day.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: You play any sports, Jeffrey?
JEFFREY: Looks like you'd make a good runner.
MIKE: Looks like you'd make a good runner.
JEFFREY: I mean, you don't exactly have the build for a football. I mean. no offense. Jeffrey looks around and sees Sandy looking at him. She then gives a stern look to Mike. Then Mike and Sandy both look at Jeffrey.
MIKE: I mean, you don't exactly have the build for a football. I mean. no offense. Jeffrey looks around and sees Sandy looking at him. She then gives a stern look to Mike. Then Mike and Sandy both look at Jeffrey.
JEFFREY: ( not offended ) No. you're right.
MIKE: I mean. some guys play anyway but they usually get slaughtered.
JEFFREY: Yeah, well I never wanted to get slaughtered much.
MIKE: ( not getting any humor ) Well, most guys don't. I mean that's the point. You all mind if I take my vitamins?
MRS. WILLIAMS: No, Mike. but there are vitamins in the food, you know. Everyone laughs.
MIKE: Yeah, but I gotta supplement that. I gotta take a bunch of zinc too. The body is like a machine. EVERYTHING has got to stay in perfect tune for perfect health. That's what I'm interested in. Sandy looks at Mike.
MIKE: Oh yeah. and a few other things. Everyone laughs again.
SANDY: We've got some Heinekens.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: Yeah. I like Bud myself.
SANDY: I'll get it. Mike, whatiya want?
MIKE: I guess another glass of water. Sandy and Jeffrey share a look.
MRS. WILLIAMS: ( calling downstairs ) Who wants dessert? It's blueberry pie. and ice cream. Jeffrey and Sandy say "yes."
MIKE: None for me, thanks. Jeffrey looks over at Sandy. Mike sees this. There is more tension What are watchin' this junk for?
MIKE: ( referring to T.V. ) What are watchin' this junk for?
SANDY: You can change it if you want to.
MIKE: I don't know why we have to watch T.V.
SANDY: Mike. We don't have to watch it. Come Mrs. Williams comes downstairs carrying a tray with dessert.
MRS. WILLIAMS: Here you are. Would anyone like coffee?
JEFFREY: That sounds great!
MRS. WILLIAMS: Anyone else?. Alright Jeffrey, just a Mrs. Williams goes back upstairs. Jeffrey and Sandy start eating their dessert. Sandy watches Jeffrey happily wolf down his pie. Mike stands up.
MIKE: I'll be right back. He leaves as if he's going to go upstairs. Once around the corner he stops and listens to see what Jeffery and Sandy will say to one another.
SANDY: Well, how did it go?. What happened?
JEFFREY: Well. I've found out some things. nothing really for certain. There are some strange people involved.
SANDY: What did you see?
JEFFREY: ( looking around, feeling funny ) Maybe we should discuss this somewhere else. you know what I mean? Just then, Mrs. Williams starts down with the coffee for Jeffrey. She sees Mike at the bottom of the stairs. This seems strange to her.
MRS. WILLIAMS: Mike?. Are you alright? Mike starts upstairs.
MIKE: ( mumbling ) Downstairs, Jeffrey and Sandy hear that Mike was close by. Mrs. Williams and Mike pass on the stairs and Mrs. Williams enters the basement. She throws Sandy a concerned look. Just then, Mike calls downstairs.
MIKE: Sandy?. Could I talk to you a minute?
SANDY: ( calling up ) Sure. just a sec. ( to Jeffrey ) Excuse me.
MIKE: Come on out a minute, okay?
SANDY: They leave.
MRS. WILLIAMS: Please excuse me a moment, Jeffrey, and I'll get to the dishes.
JEFFREY: Sure thing. please don't worry about me. Can I help you with the dishes?
MRS. WILLIAMS: Nice of you to offer, Jeffrey, but certainly not. just relax and enjoy your coffee. I'm sure Sandy will be back soon. Detective Williams comes to the top of the stairs and calls down.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: DETECTIVE WILLIAMS If you want to come up a minute, I'll show you some pictures.
JEFFREY: DETECTIVE WILLIAMS If you want to come up a minute, I'll show you some pictures.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: If you want to come up a minute, I'll show you some pictures.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: ( continuing ) Take a look at these. These are the photos of the vacant lot where you found the ear. You might find them interesting. Jeffrey begins going through the pictures. They are 8 X 10 black and white prints. Mostly they are pictures of weeds, but they look quite beautiful in an abstract way. As he goes through them.
JEFFREY: These are beautiful. How's the case Anything you can tell me?
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: Anything you can tell me?
JEFFREY: Anything you can tell me?
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: The criminals are winning.
JEFFREY: Is that why you say it's horrible?
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: I guess you've seen some bad things.
JEFFREY: I guess you've seen some bad things.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: Yes I have - so bad I wouldn't poison your mind by telling you.
JEFFREY: Why do you do it?
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: I won't let the bastards get me up against the wall. It's an act of defiance.
JEFFREY: Yeah. I get it. Suddenly Jeffrey sees something in the black and white photos. A piece of cloth in the grass. Carefully he asks.
JEFFREY: What is this? What color is it?
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: ( leaning over to see ) Blue. It's Blue Velvet. Sandy comes into her father's study looking upset. Detective Williams puts the photos away.
SANDY: Can I use the car for a while?
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: Sure. What's up?
SANDY: I want to buy Jeffrey a Dairy Queen.
JEFFREY: A Dairy Queen? Oh yeah? Sure, that sounds great.
JEFFREY: What's with Mike?
SANDY: He got a little jealous.
JEFFREY: I'm sorry, I didn't.
SANDY: It's okay. Don't worry about it. The car glides along. Jeffrey and Sandy smile at one another. They drive on.
SANDY: You want a Dairy Queen?
JEFFREY: No way. I'm about to blow up.
SANDY: You want to tell me about it?
JEFFREY: . OK. It's a strange world, Sandy. this is what I have found out. What I think I have found out. Dorothy Vallens is married to a man named Don. they have a son. I think the son and the husband have been kidnapped by a man named Frank who has now cut off both of Don's ears. I think he is holding them to make her do things for him. I think she wants to die. the ears were for her a warning to stay alive. there is another man involved. I call him the "yellow man". you saw his back the other day in the hall at her door. I don't know what he does but I think he's on drugs supplied by Frank. Frank is a very dangerous man.
SANDY: ( quietly ) Wow. Should you tell my father?
JEFFREY: I don't see how I can. and I can't prove any of this. I got all this information illegally. also it could get you in You saw a lot in one night.
SANDY: You saw a lot in one night.
JEFFREY: . Actually. I've been in twice.
SANDY: ( uneasy ) Twice. without her sensing anything?
JEFFREY: ( lying ) Did you see her undressed?
SANDY: ( pausing ) Did you see her undressed?
JEFFREY: Yeah. I mean. a little, . you know.
SANDY: ( a searching, slight smile ) That doesn't bother you, does it?
JEFFREY: ( a searching, slight smile ) That doesn't bother you, does it?
SANDY: Who, me? Why should it?
JEFFREY: ( seeing some jealousy and That's what I thought.
SANDY: You're sure right. It is a strange world.
JEFFREY: Why are there people like Frank. Why is there so much trouble in this world.?
SANDY: I don't know. I had a dream. in fact. the night I met you. . in the dream the world was dark because there weren't any robins. you know, birds. robins stood for love. and all of a sudden thousands of robins flew down and brought this blinding light of love. and it felt like that love would be the only thing that would make any difference. I guess. until the robins come there is trouble.
JEFFREY: Yeah I guess so. You're a neat girl.
SANDY: So are you. I mean you're a neat guy. We better get back.
JEFFREY: I guess so. you want to help me watch Frank?. I'm going to stake out Frank's place tomorrow. with a camera. Sandy starts the car and pulls out into the street. They begin driving 129. INT. WILLIAMS CAR/NEIGHBORHOOD STREET - NIGHT No, silly - I'm still in school you know. but I'll meet you after school and you can tell me what you've learned. You better be careful, Jeffrey.
SANDY: No, silly - I'm still in school you know. but I'll meet you after school and you can tell me what you've learned. You better be careful, Jeffrey.
JEFFREY: I will. I'll pick you up on the same corner at three thirty-five, okay? They pull up in front of Jeffrey's house.
SANDY: Okay. be careful.
JEFFREY: Okay, Sandy.
JEFFREY: Can I give you a kiss good night?
SANDY: ( pauses, trembling ) You better not, Jeffrey.
JEFFREY: Okay. okay.
SANDY: See ya tomorrow. Sandy slowly drives off. Jeffrey watches her go then turns and goes inside his house.
JEFFREY: See ya tomorrow. Sandy slowly drives off. Jeffrey watches her go then turns and goes inside his house.
JEFFREY: FRANK ( telephone V.O. ) Speak to me Fucker. Jeffrey hangs up immediately. He's scared.
JEFFREY: ( to himself ) Stupid!! So stupid. now she might be in even more trouble with Frank. I hope not. I hope not. tomorrow I have to find out more about Frank.
JEFFREY: He replaces the cardboard box and continues eating.
JEFFREY: DISSOLVE TO: 135. INT. BEAUMONTS' CAR/FRONT STREET - DAY Jeffrey's watch - the hand - time lapses around to 3:00.
JEFFREY: ( out loud to himself ) Fifteen more minutes. Just then, he sees movement and takes the box off the camera. He starts shooting as TWO MEN come out the door. It is the Yellow Man and a man who is very well dressed with wavy hair and a mustache. He carries an alligator-skin briefcase FRANK HAS DISAPPEARED. Both are talking together and now laughing. Jeffrey takes five or six pictures and then tries to cover the camera as they approach. The box falls. The Yellow Man looks, but Jeffrey gets the box back in time and pretends to be looking in the glove compartment. The two men walk right by Jeffrey and get into the car behind his. Jeffrey decides to follow them. He waits a few seconds and starts off.
JEFFREY: You gotta wait for me Sandy. I'm on a real roll. He quickly takes a picture of the two of them on the staircase.
JEFFREY: What happened?
GUY #1: He was blown away man. can't you see?
GUY #2: That cracker was the biggest dealer in this section of the city, brother. the police are going to find more drugs in there than you can believe. It's a speedball heaven in there.
JEFFREY: Oh yeah? What about the woman?
GUY #1: Probably just a whore he happened to be with at the time.
JEFFREY: Man oh brother.
GUY #1: This is the way the world is my man. take a good look. Jeffrey takes a last look before checking his watch and hurrying off.
SANDY: ( looking beyond the car )
SANDY: Oh great.
SANDY: ( continuing ) You were late.
JEFFREY: I'm really sorry.
SANDY: What am I going to do?
JEFFREY: You want to go talk to him?
SANDY: Yeah, but. I don't think it's going to do much good. Let's go. I'll try to talk to him later.
SANDY: You know, that cheese is practically all chemicals.
JEFFREY: That's what makes it so good. You wanta hear what I saw today?
SANDY: Number one. I saw the Yellow Man go into Frank's building, laughing with Frank. Now. the only trouble is. what does this Nothing really, but it's interesting. they know each other. they seem to like each other.
JEFFREY: Number one. I saw the Yellow Man go into Frank's building, laughing with Frank. Now. the only trouble is. what does this Nothing really, but it's interesting. they know each other. they seem to like each other.
SANDY: ( thinking ) Nothing really, but it's interesting. they know each other. they seem to like each other.
JEFFREY: Maybe. But I think the Yellow Man is on drugs. I think Frank supplies him.
SANDY: Oh yeah?
JEFFREY: Number two. I saw the Yellow Man come out. This time with a well-dressed man with an alligator briefcase. They drove down this factory building and stood on a staircase looking at something in the distance. Number three. now get this. In the distance was a murder. a drug dealer shot to death and a woman with her legs broken.
SANDY: Then these guys told me the police will find a huge amount of drugs inside the dead man's place.
JEFFREY: Then these guys told me the police will find a huge amount of drugs inside the dead man's place.
SANDY: I can't believe what you are finding out. Are you going to continue with this. Are you going back to her apartment?
JEFFREY: Jeffrey?. Why?
SANDY: Jeffrey?. Why?
JEFFREY: I'm seeing something that was always hidden. I'm involved in a mystery. I'm learning. and it's all secret.
SANDY: You like mysteries that much?
JEFFREY: Yeah. you're a mystery. I like you. very much. Jeffrey stands up and moves to her side of the booth. They stare at each Oh yeah? Jeffrey leans over and kisses her gently. She pulls away.
SANDY: Oh yeah? Jeffrey leans over and kisses her gently. She pulls away.
SANDY: Don't. please, Jeffrey. Jeffrey looks at her for a moment.
JEFFREY: You worry about me really?
SANDY: Yes. is that so surprising?. Yeah I worry. a lot. I got you into this.
DOROTHY: Come in.
JEFFREY: 144. INT. DOROTHY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT Dorothy closes the door. She chains it. They kiss. The kiss gets hotter. The feeling begins. They move down the hall to the back bedroom. They've never made love there. As they hurriedly undress Jeffrey sees the pointed child's hat with the propeller. He picks it up and spins the propeller. It makes a bit of music. Dorothy shrieks as she lurches toward Jeffrey grabbing his hand, stopping him from turning the tiny propeller. She gains some control of herself. Jeffrey releases the hat into her hand.
DOROTHY: It used to make me laugh .but.
JEFFREY: I'm sorry .maybe I better go Dorothy.
DOROTHY: Yes. Frank-
JEFFREY: Frank is coming?
DOROTHY: No. how could he?. Don't go. You think I'm crazy, don't you? I want you to stay. . don't hate me.
JEFFREY: ( very nervous ) I sure don't hate you.
DOROTHY: I'm not crazy. I know the difference between right and wrong.
JEFFREY: That's good. Jeffrey moves to get out of bed.
DOROTHY: ( she poses ) Do you like my body?
JEFFREY: Sure I do. She moves closer to him, towards his back touching it with her tongue. She gets down in a pose and holds it.
DOROTHY: I'm a statue. you can feel me.you can do anything you want. Jeffrey's hands find her flesh and move about.
DOROTHY: ( dreamily ) What do you want to do?
JEFFREY: I'm doing it.
DOROTHY: Are you a bad boy?
JEFFREY: Whatiya mean?
DOROTHY: Do you want to do bad things? Anything. anything.
JEFFREY: ( whispering hot ) What do you want?
DOROTHY: I want you to hurt me.
JEFFREY: No. I told you. I don't want to hurt you. I want to help you. I think I know some of what is happening to you. . Dorothy? Frank has your husband and son. Dorothy? Doesn't he? You have to do something Dorothy. go to the police.
DOROTHY: No police!!!. No police!! Suddenly, Dorothy gets very odd. She turns into a little girl. She has a frightening little girl smile.
DOROTHY: You like to open me. don't you?
JEFFREY: ( thinking with a grin ) What if I told Frank that you opened me? For just one quiet moment we see the stairway to Dorothy's apartment. It is empty. Then back to Jeffrey and Dorothy.
DOROTHY: ( thinking with a grin ) What if I told Frank that you opened me? For just one quiet moment we see the stairway to Dorothy's apartment. It is empty. Then back to Jeffrey and Dorothy.
JEFFREY: That wouldn't be too good, would it?
DOROTHY: Frank would open you.
JEFFREY: Okay. I know you've been scared. now you want to scare someone.
DOROTHY: ( smiles very strangely ) Does that scare you?
JEFFREY: Shut up.
DOROTHY: Beeeee careful.
JEFFREY: ( scared and mad ) Come on Dorothy.
DOROTHY: What if Frank came over here and found us? The curtains in the kitchen bellow out with an eerie gust of wind.
JEFFREY: Look, snap out of it, will ya?
DOROTHY: Kiss me. They kiss.
DOROTHY: ( continuing ) Do you love me?
JEFFREY: Do you love me?
DOROTHY: I asked first.
JEFFREY: Sometimes I think I do.
DOROTHY: And sometimes you think you don't?! Well, get away then! She bolts up.
JEFFREY: Wait a minute. Wait. Whatiya want? For cryin' out loud!
DOROTHY: Just get outta my bed. She hits out at Jeffrey and strikes him in the face. Jeffrey struggles with her to keep her from hitting him again but she breaks loose and slams out at his face again. He pushes back hard and her head actually hits the wall. She smiles through the pain.
JEFFREY: Oh God. are you alright. She falls on him and smothers him with kisses.
DOROTHY: See. see how you hurt me? Now. Open me. enter me. Jeffrey moves on top of her in the darkness. We move very close to Jeffrey's ear as Dorothy's lips come up and whisper into it.
DOROTHY: I love you Don with all my heart.
JEFFREY: No. it's not Don. But he can't stop himself or her from making love.
DOROTHY: Come inside me. Oh yes, oh yes, oh yes. Oh yes, oh yes, oh yes. The movement subsides. There is silence in the room, except for breathing.
JEFFREY: I didn't mean to hurt you.
DOROTHY: Shhhhhh. Now I have your disease.
JEFFREY: You. what?
DOROTHY: You put your disease in me. your semen. it's hot and full of disease.
JEFFREY: There's no disease, I can tell you.
DOROTHY: Men are crazy. then they put their craziness into me. then it makes me crazy. then they aren't so crazy for awhile. then they put their craziness in me again. . it's burning me. but I love you. I do, I do. Did you know that? Did you know that I love you?
JEFFREY: ( very apprehensive ) I'm glad you do.
DOROTHY: There's so much I want to tell you. I'm in so much darkness though with things moving. there is darkness sucking me. It's kissing me and darkness is entering me. in every hole. It's opening me to a death.
JEFFREY: Dorothy. no!
DOROTHY: ( whispering ) If I die, then they'll be free. It's getting late, isn't it? I can tell. it's a cold feeling when it's late. It's warm then it gets cold. Jeffrey. I feel it getting cold.
JEFFREY: You called me Jeffrey.
DOROTHY: I did. are you?
JEFFREY: Why are you here? Hmmmmmmmm!!!! Ok.
DOROTHY: Why are you here? Hmmmmmmmm!!!! Ok.
JEFFREY: No. not really. but also because I really want you to be alright. Dorothy stops and looks at him - she holds his face. She starts to cry.
DOROTHY: You do .you really do. She continues holding his face - looking in his eyes crying openly. he pulls him down to her.
DOROTHY: Jeffrey. Jeffrey. Jeffrey. Jeffrey smiles.
JEFFREY: I guess I should go.
DOROTHY: I want you to stay with me.
JEFFREY: I think I better go.
DOROTHY: You're my special friend, aren't you? I have you inside of me still. It helps me. I need you. Jeffrey doesn't know what to say. He starts walking toward the door with Dorothy beside him.
JEFFREY: ( lying ) I'll call you.
DOROTHY: Okay. soon? Do you think I'm too fat?
JEFFREY: I'm getting a little bit fat. I hate that.
DOROTHY: I'm getting a little bit fat. I hate that.
JEFFREY: You look beautiful to me. She pats her hips.
DOROTHY: Right in here. fat, fat, fat. Dorothy takes the chain off the door and opens it. The hall is empty. There is some noise on the stairs. Suddenly, Frank and TWO FRIENDS of his come into view on the stairway.
JEFFREY: ( to Dorothy ) Oh no.
DOROTHY: ( her eyes glaze over - ( calling out to Frank ) Hi baby.
FRANK: Who's this fuck?
DOROTHY: He's a friend. from the neighborhood. we were just talking.
FRANK: ( to Jeffrey ) From the neighborhood? Shut the fuck up. ( to Jeffrey ) You like telephones? Huh?. You wanta go for a ride?
JEFFREY: No thanks.
FRANK: No thanks. what does that mean?
JEFFREY: ( very carefully ) I don't want to go.
FRANK: Go where?
JEFFREY: On a ride.
FRANK: A ride?. Hell, that's a good idea. okay, let's go. Hey, let's go. Frank grabs Jeffrey and pulls him along.
FRANK: ( continuing to Dorothy ) Come on. We're goin' for a joy ride.
FRANK: Where you wanna go? I know!. We gotta see Ben. We gotta, right?
PAUL: ( laughing ) Yeah. we gotta see Ben. The car roars through a seedy street lined with bars and clubs. Liquor and sex shop signs glow in hot neon colors. They are blurred visions because of the speed of Frank's car. Driving music plays. Frank careens dangerously down various narrow streets, just barely making turns. The Ford bounces off several curbs. Dorothy occasionally steals a glance back at Jeffrey. She squeals out loud - sometimes with glee, mostly in fear. Raymond and Paul laugh with Frank, yell out or light cigarettes.
FRANK: Come on. I wancha to meet a frienda mine. Raymond, get enough beer for Ben too.
RAYMOND: Okay Frank.
FRANK: ( to Jeffrey ) What kinda beer do you like?
JEFFREY: ( just says it ) FUCK THAT SHIT. PABST BLUE RIBBON!!! He grabs Jeffrey and pushes him into the bar.
FRANK: FUCK THAT SHIT. PABST BLUE RIBBON!!! He grabs Jeffrey and pushes him into the bar.
FRANK: Hey shithead. that's the last time I get you high and watch you freak out - motherfucker you tore my coat and I lost my lucky piece of blue velvet, man.
FLASHBACK: to the black and white photo of a piece of cloth in the weeds in the vacant lot.
RESUME GROUP: Hey Frank I'm sorry buddy.
WILLARD: Hey Frank I'm sorry buddy.
FRANK: Yeah?. get ready for a love letter. When you least expect it.
WILLARD: Frank. please man.
FRANK: A big love letter. Frank pushes him down on the bed with the dried vomit whore. They leave 154. INT. STAIRS AND LANDING - BEN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT . and go up a flight of dirty wooden steps. Frank bangs on a door at the first landing. Raymond joins him with a case of Pabst Blue Ribbon Beer.
FRANK: Hey Ben. OPEN UP. It's Frank. A tall, slender man with a smoking jacket and a mustache opens the door. It's BEN. His voice is very horse from years of smoking.
BEN: ( very gracious ) Frank. Come in.
FRANK: Hey, I brought some friends. and some Fine. Welcome. Come sit down.
BEN: Fine. Welcome. Come sit down.
FRANK: ( getting higher all the time ) Suave. goddam are you suave, you fucker. You want some beer?
BEN: ( smiling ) Certainly Frank. ( to the fat woman ) Darling, get some glasses. We'll have some beer with Frank. Won't you sit down? Everyone kinds of mills around. Paul sits down in a chair and starts laughing at some private joke in his head.
FRANK: Shit Ben! How the shit are ya?
BEN: Fine Frank. Fine. How are you?
FRANK: Fuckin' good, real fuckin' good. You know this little tid bit, Dorothy, and this thing, here, ( referring to Jeffrey ) is a neighbor. What the shit we're doin' with a neighbor, I don't know. goddam!!!( referring to Ben ) This is the suavest guy I know. look at you. You're one beautiful fucker, Ben. I love this jacket and that cigarette holder of yours. shit, that is too fuckin' much. Where's those glasses. this beer's gonna get too warm. I can't stand fuckin' warm beer. it makes me puke.
BEN: Darling, where are the glasses?. Oh. here they are. The Big Lady brings the glasses in and sets them on the card table. She looks worried. She gives a helpless pleading look to Ben.
FRANK: Raymond! Where's the fuckin' beer?
RAYMOND: Right here Frank. You want me to pour it?
FRANK: No, I want ya to fuck it. Shit, yes. pour the fuckin' beer.
RAYMOND: There ya go.
FRANK: Good, let's drink up.
BEN: To your health, Frank.
FRANK: Shit. let's drink to something else. let's drink to fuckin'. Say here's to your fuck Frank.
BEN: If you like Frank. Here's to your fuck. Frank's friends, Paul and Raymod, laugh.
FRANK: ( laughs loud ) Cheers. Suave man. you're so fuckin' suave. WE LOVE BEN! Here's to Ben!. Frank slaps Jeffrey in the face.
FRANK: Hey neighbor. Here's to Ben.
JEFFREY: ( stunned, grabbing his face ) Here's to Ben.
FRANK: Do you see, Ben?. I can make him do anything I fuckin' please. Ben goes to Jeffrey.
BEN: Thank you neighbor. let me see your face. did he hurt you? Jeffrey shows him.
BEN: ( continuing ) Oh. my. Suddenly Ben slugs Jeffrey in the stomach. Jeffrey doubles over.
BEN: ( continuing again ) Is that any better? Frank almost dies laughing. Everyone else joins in. Ben turns to Frank.
BEN: Frank, I have something for you. Excuse us everyone.
FRANK: EXCUSE US por favor! Hey. let Tits see her kid. As Jeffrey tries to catch his breath, he sees tremendous emotion fill Dorothy's face. She rushes forward. Raymond grabs her by the arm and takes her into another room. Jeffrey hears her crying out. He hears a small boy.
DONNY: Mommy. You left me. you stopped loving me.
FRANK: ( coming back into Ben's living room ) Okay. let's hit the fuckin' road. we're givin' our neighbor a joy ride. let's get on with it. Bye, Ben. Ya wanna go on a joy ride with us, anyone? You? ( looking around ) Dorothy rejoins the group. She's in a state of shock. Frank pinches her No smile for Frank? No? Okay, fuck it. Let's go. Oh you wanna come with Raymond? Raymond has picked up the greasy girl.
FRANK: ( continuing ) No smile for Frank? No? Okay, fuck it. Let's go. Oh you wanna come with Raymond? Raymond has picked up the greasy girl.
BEN: See you Tuesday, Frank.
FRANK: Right Ben. LET'S GO FUCK. I'll fuck anything that moves.
FRANK: ( to Jeffrey ) Hey? . You like to walk.
JEFFREY: Let's take our neighbor out. Let him fuckin' walk back. As Frank is driving Jeffrey sees Dorothy nervously look at the road and surrounding countryside, then questioningly at Frank. She senses something about where they are going.
FRANK: Let's take our neighbor out. Let him fuckin' walk back. As Frank is driving Jeffrey sees Dorothy nervously look at the road and surrounding countryside, then questioningly at Frank. She senses something about where they are going.
DOROTHY: Where are we going, Frank?
FRANK: Hey. Tits. I'm taking your neighbor to the country. maybe something for you too.
DOROTHY: ( very anxious ) You want to see him too, right?
FRANK: You want to see him too, right?
DOROTHY: Yes, but.
FRANK: Then, shut up! Frank sees Dorothy look back at Jeffrey.
FRANK: ( continuing ) Hey. What's this fuck got to do with 159. INT. FRANK'S CAR/DIRT ROAD - NIGHT Frank angrily swerves the car off onto a small dirt road bouncing down it, screeching to a halt near an orchard of trees. He turns violently around to Jeffrey.
FRANK: What are you lookin' at?
JEFFREY: ( locks eyes with Jeffrey; Don't look at me, Fuck. I shoot when I see the whites of the eyes. ( takes helium ) You like me?. Jeffrey is quiet.
FRANK: ( locks eyes with Jeffrey; Don't look at me, Fuck. I shoot when I see the whites of the eyes. ( takes helium ) You like me?. Jeffrey is quiet.
FRANK: ( still high voice ) Look at these. What are these?
DOROTHY: Come on, Frank. Let's go. Please. Frank is doing something to Dorothy's chest but Jeffrey can't see.
FRANK: Don't say PLEASE, Fuckhead. WHAT ARE
THESE?: Those are my breasts.
DOROTHY: Those are my breasts.
FRANK: Can I feel 'em?
DOROTHY: If you want to. Frank takes helium.
FRANK: Baby wants to pinch 'em. She winces and tries to pull away.
FRANK: ( continuing ) What's the matter? Give 'em back. They're just a little red, that's all. let me feel 'em again. Come here. Frank pulls her over and starts to pinch her again. It really hurts her and she is frightened and in pain.
JEFFREY: Hey. leave her alone. Frank pretends not to hear Jeffrey and pinches Dorothy's breasts real hard. She stifles a scream. Jeffrey gets mad. He hits Frank hard in the face. Everyone is deadly silent as Frank turns to Jeffrey. Frank stares at NEXT! . out of the car fuck. HELP HIM
FRANK: NEXT! . out of the car fuck. HELP HIM
OUT, RAYMOND!!: 160. EXT. FRANK'S CAR/DIRT ROAD - NIGHT Frank gets out and presses his face against the rear window. His distorted face is hideous. He opens the back door. Raymond and Paul grab Jeffrey and pull him out of the car. The Greasy Girl laughs nervously.
DOROTHY: Frank. he didn't mean it. Leave him alone. come on. He didn't mean it.
FRANK: Shut up. Gimme your lipstick. . Hey, pretty, pretty. Dorothy doesn't move fast enough so Frank dumps her whole purse out on the front seat and grabs the lipstick and a flashlight. He puts lipstick heavy onto his lips. While Raymond and Paul hold Jeffrey. Frank kisses Jeffrey all over the mouth. Jeffrey tries to hit Frank and pull away, but Raymond and Paul have a hold of him. Jeffrey looks very strange with these big blotches of red lipstick on his face and mouth.
DOROTHY: LEAVE HIM ALONE!! FRANK!! Frank slams the front door shut to muffle Dorothy. He grabs Jeffrey and presses his frightened face against the front window. Then, the back window. Then, he flops Jeffrey up on the hood with Paul's help and presses Jeffrey's face against the rear window. Inside the car, this show is crazy and scary. Then, Frank takes Jeffrey over to the side of the car You're fuckin' lucky to be alive.
FRANK: ( to Jeffrey ) You're fuckin' lucky to be alive.
FRANK: Don't be a good neighbor to her or I'm gonna send you a love letter. straight from my heart, fucker. You know what a love letter is? It's a bullet. straight from my gun, fucker. Once you get a love letter from me, you're fucked forever. Understand, Fuck?
JEFFREY: I'll send you straight to hell, Fuck! Frank takes a small square of blue velvet out of his pocket and begins feeling Jeffrey's face with it.
FRANK: I'll send you straight to hell, Fuck! Frank takes a small square of blue velvet out of his pocket and begins feeling Jeffrey's face with it.
FRANK: ( continuing; breathing heavily ) You feel good. feel my muscles. Raymond makes Jeffrey raise his arm and Jeffrey feels Frank's biceps.
FRANK: ( continuing ) You like that? Hold him tight for me. Suddenly Frank starts hitting Jeffrey in the face. Dorothy screams at the car window.
JEFFREY: Yellow Cab? Is this Yellow Cab? I need a cab. on Route 7. . Just by Meadow Lane.
FLASHBACK: Jeffrey remembers Dorothy mentioning "Meadow Lane" on the phone.
FLASHBACK: Jeffrey remembers Frank saying "You want to see him too, right?" and Dorothy saying, "Yes. but."
JEFFREY: ( continuing ) Meadow Lane. There's a big Nehi sign. Okay. I'll wait, don't worry, . I've got to get home, don't I?
JEFFREY: His muscles are very sore.
JEFFREY: I don't want to talk about it. Everything's okay now. I don't want to talk about it.
AUNT BARBARA: Sometimes it helps to talk things over. for instance, many marriages are saved by.
JEFFREY: ( interrupting, smiling Aunt Barbara. I love you, but you're not gonna get it. He holds his fist up.
JEFFREY: Mrs. Williams? Hi, this is Jeffrey Beaumont. fine and you? Good. Is Sandy there? Good, thanks. Sandy?. Can you talk? Good. I'm through with this business. I'll explain, but it got a little out of hand. I'm lucky to be able to call you. anyway. I promise I'll tell you everything .How are you?
SANDY: We broke up. No. It's okay. It's okay. Jeffrey?. Jeffrey?. Hey, Jeffrey?. Do you want to go to a party with me Friday night?. He won't be there, don't worry. It'll be real nice. This Friday. You don't dance? Well, I'll teach you, 172. INT. JEFFREY'S ROOM - DAY Jeffrey on his phone.
JEFFREY: Great. Hey. I've got a bit of a problem. I know some things. that could help your father but you might get into trouble.
SANDY: Jeffrey. are they important things? Well forget me - you have to tell him. Jeffrey. I mean it.
JEFFREY: Ok but I promise I won't mention you. Okay? .I'll see him at the police station. okay? See you Friday night, if not before.
JEFFREY: Excuse me. Jeffrey turns away as quickly as possible and goes over to a water cooler and gets a drink, keeping his back to the Yellow Man. He shakes with fear. He slowly turns around. The Yellow Man is studying some papers on his desk. Again the Yellow Man looks up. This time he is slightly suspicious and he cooks his head. Jeffrey cannot move. Finally, Jeffrey is able to step away. As he leaves the Yellow Man's line of sight, Jeffrey catches the names on the door.
DETECTIVES: J.R. WILLIAMS T.R. GORDON ( inner voice ) Gordon. Gordon. a police inspector. wait a minute. wait a minute.
J.R. WILLIAMS: T.R. GORDON Gordon. Gordon. a police inspector. wait a minute. wait a minute.
AND: T.R. GORDON Gordon. Gordon. a police inspector. wait a minute. wait a minute.
T.R. GORDON: ( inner voice ) Gordon. Gordon. a police inspector. wait a minute. wait a minute.
JEFFREY: ( inner voice ) Gordon. Gordon. a police inspector. wait a minute. wait a minute.
FLASHBACK: Jeffrey remembers the black guy saying: "The police are going to find more drugs in there than you can believe."
JEFFREY: ( continuing, inner voice ) The police. the police. Gordon.
FLASHBACK: Jeffrey remembers Frank's voice in the distance: "Gordon went right up to them - in broad daylight of course - 'cause he's the man, right? And he took all those drugs away."
JEFFREY: ( continuing, inner voice ) Took all those drugs away. Gordon took those drugs away.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: Jeffrey! Come on in.
JEFFREY: Hi. Hi Sandy. I'm sorry to bother you, but I've got to talk to you.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: Okay. come on in. Looks like you had a bad face lift.
JEFFREY: ( with a goofy smile to Sandy ) 180. INT. WILLIAMS' LIVING ROOM - NIGHT Sandy gives him a concerned look. Jeffrey follows Detective Williams to his study.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: Okay. I gotta tell you. I've. discovered some things. .Anyway I have to show you some pictures and tell you some things about them. The first picture is this. He shows him the picture of Frank and studies Detective Williams' face as he sees it.
JEFFREY: Okay. I gotta tell you. I've. discovered some things. .Anyway I have to show you some pictures and tell you some things about them. The first picture is this. He shows him the picture of Frank and studies Detective Williams' face as he sees it.
JEFFREY: ( continuing ) This is Frank Booth. His address is on the back of the photo. He, in my opinion, is very sick and dangerous. This photo here is of Frank with another man as they went into Frank's apartment. Jeffrey casually hands the photo over and watches Detective Williams' face extra carefully. Detective Williams doesn't flinch, yet his eyes slowly glide upwards to meet Jeffrey's.
JEFFREY: ( continuing ) And that man came out with a third man - this well-dressed guy. here's the photo. I think a girl named Dorothy Vallens is in trouble with these people. I think Frank has taken her husband and her son.
JEFFREY: ( continuing ) I have no hard proof of any of this. Her address is also on the photos. I think these people are involved with drugs. and murder. I think Frank is killing drug dealers and. ( he decides not to tell Detective Williams everything ) . and somehow Frank is getting all their drugs. I had to tell you I got slightly more involved in this than you wanted me to, but it's over now for sure. .I had to tell you about these things in case it could help.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: Well now Jeffrey, how did you come to get so involved?
JEFFREY: I can't tell you the whole story. I. I took it upon myself. I can't say more.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: Is Sandy part of this?
JEFFREY: No. not at all.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: ( referring to the photos ) Who knows you have these?
JEFFREY: Only you. and the photo lab.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: You're all through with this now?
JEFFREY: Yes sir. I sure am. Detective Williams studies Jeffrey, then the photos.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: For now. Alright. you better be. And Sandy better not be involved with this, I can tell you. Be prepared to come in for further interrogation on this later.
JEFFREY: Yes sir. Jeffrey leaves the study.
SANDY: Everything okay?
JEFFREY: Yeah. I think so. I just had to tell him some of what I knew. Is Friday still on?
SANDY: You didn't tell him about me?
JEFFREY: Detective Williams comes out of his study and sees the two of them talking. He sees some nervousness. Sandy quickly changes the subject.
SANDY: I should never had gotten you going on this. Yes Jeffrey. Friday's on!
JEFFREY: Okay. great!
MRS. WILLIAMS: Hello, Jeffrey. Come in.
JEFFREY: You all set? Detective Williams comes in arranging some papers which he begins placing in a briefcase on the dining room table. Just then a man comes up to the door which is still open. Jeffrey turns to see. It is Detective T.R. Gordon, the Yellow Man. All the color instantly drains from Jeffrey's face.
YELLOW MAN: ( yelling inside ) Hey John - get a move on!! Detective Williams turns. He sees Detective Gordon. He turns again. He sees Jeffrey's expression. Sandy hasn't seen it yet. Detective Williams goes to Jeffrey. He looks him straight in the eye. He also positions himself between Jeffrey and T.R. Gordon.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: Easy does it Jeffrey. Behave yourself. don't blow it. Sandy becomes curious and moves over to Jeffrey and her father. Jeffrey decides to trust Detective Williams. The Yellow Man ( T.R. Gordon ) yells Come on John, get it in gear pal!
YELLOW MAN: Come on John, get it in gear pal!
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: So long Jeffrey. You two have a nice night, okay?
JEFFREY: What is it?
SANDY: What is it?
JEFFREY: Just some fatherly advice.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: That's right. Jeffrey and Sandy head for the door. The Yellow Man's and Jeffrey's eyes meet once more. The Yellow Man cocks his head. thinking. No recognition.
SANDY: ( to her mother ) Goodnight mom. Goodnight Tom.
SANDY: What was that all about?
JEFFREY: Nothing. really! It's good to see you.
SANDY: It's good to see you.
JEFFREY: Where to?
SANDY: Just go over to Gelford and up to Vista. It's not far. Can you tell me any more about what you learned?
JEFFREY: I'd rather not talk about it. I'll tell you about it sometime.
SANDY: It's okay.
JEFFREY: . You look beautiful.
SANDY: Thank you. Whatiya say we just enjoy the I like that idea. that's a real good idea.
JEFFREY: I like that idea. that's a real good idea.
SANDY: You want to dance?
JEFFREY: I can't dance fast.
SANDY: Really. you want to dance with someone Let's wait for some slow one.
JEFFREY: Really. you want to dance with someone Let's wait for some slow one.
SANDY: Let's wait for some slow one.
JEFFREY: Let's wait for some slow one.
SANDY: Just a minute. Sandy leaves Jeffrey for a moment and Jeffrey watches her make her way through the crowd to a GIRL by the record player. Sandy confers with the girl. Sandy comes back to Jeffrey.
SANDY: Don't worry. I took care of it. You want something to drink? Just then, the music goes slow.
JEFFREY: You want to dance?
SANDY: They begin to dance. At first, further apart, then, they make the mistake of looking in each other's eyes and they move very close together. They move around to another look. Then they kiss. They kiss for the entire rest of the song. Between songs and during the entire next song. They finally, as they say, come up for air.
SANDY: I love you, Jeffrey. They kiss again. Then they dance and look at each other. Then they hug each other. As they hug, Jeffrey closes his eyes.
JEFFREY: ( inner voice )
SANDY: Oh my God. What's wrong?
JEFFREY: He swerves around the corner. Up ahead, a car is pulling out of a Jeffrey swings hard around another corner and heads up a dark street, passing "Lincoln St."
JEFFREY: ( continuing; referring
JEFFREY: I can't outrun this guy. He floors the car and flies down another street very fast.
JEFFREY: My father has a gun at home.
SANDY: Sandy. this guy is a killer!! I promise Sandy turns back to take a look. Jeffrey swerves the car again; he bangs it off a curb as he rounds a corner. A hub cap goes flying off rolling noisily down the street.
JEFFREY: Sandy. this guy is a killer!! I promise Sandy turns back to take a look. Jeffrey swerves the car again; he bangs it off a curb as he rounds a corner. A hub cap goes flying off rolling noisily down the street.
SANDY: Try to get to my house. then my father CLOSEUP ON JEFFREY 195. INT. WILLIAMS' LIVING ROOM - NIGHT He remembers Detective Gordon, the Yellow Man, at Sandy's house.
FLASHBACK: He remembers Detective Gordon, the Yellow Man, at Sandy's house.
JEFFREY: Jeffrey floors the car again. but the car behind him is fast and gains on him. It swerves back and forth in the rear view mirror. Now it swerves and roars up alongside Jeffrey's car. Sandy screams.
SANDY: It's Mike! It's Mike! Jeffrey looks over. It is Mike. Out of enormous sense of relief he starts laughing. He slows instantly and so does Mike.
MIKE: ( out of the car; very drunk ) Hey come here, you stole my girl, you bastard. I'm gonna kick your ass, right in front of your stupid house.
SANDY: . Stop it Mike.
MIKE: ( to Sandy )
JEFFREY: Dorothy! . Dorothy!
SANDY: Dorothy Vallens?
JEFFREY: He jumps out of the car, gets a hold of her and helps her back. Mike comes after him.
MIKE: ( going for Jeffrey )
JEFFREY: ( pushing Mike off )
SANDY: Mike, go home. Mike's friends are dazed, watching Dorothy staggering beside Jeffrey. Mike steps back as Jeffrey puts Dorothy in the car. Jeffrey stands back up and glances at Mike.
MIKE: ( dull, very drunk )
JEFFREY: Yeah. okay, Mike. Jeffrey shuts the door. Dorothy is sandwiched between him and Sandy in the front seat.
SANDY: Take her to my house. My dad can get an ambulance faster than anyone. Do you have anything to put around her?
JEFFREY: ( starts the car ) No. Is Detective Gordon going to be at your house?
SANDY: Probably not. no. Why?
JEFFREY: OK. Let's get her over to your father's.
SANDY: ( looking quickly from
JEFFREY: Here we go. They drive off.
DOROTHY: ( looking over ) Oh God. Jeffrey is that you? Sandy looks at Jeffrey questioningly.
JEFFREY: Yeah, it's me.
DOROTHY: Oh God, Jeffrey. is that you? Oh God. Sandy is confused. how do they know each other?
SANDY: ( hurrying ) Is Dad home?
MRS. WILLIAMS: ( shocked at sight ) You better call him and get an ambulance Dorothy is clinging to Jeffrey. Mrs. Williams goes to call. Sandy moves closer. Jeffrey looks at Sandy and she returns the look.
SANDY: You better call him and get an ambulance Dorothy is clinging to Jeffrey. Mrs. Williams goes to call. Sandy moves closer. Jeffrey looks at Sandy and she returns the look.
DOROTHY: ( crazy ) Where have you been? ( screams ) Oh God. they hurt him, Jeffrey. Jeffrey, Jeffrey, Jeffrey, hold me. HOLD ME. Oh God.
JEFFREY: It's okay. it's okay.
DOROTHY: ( like a little girl )
MRS. WILLIAMS: The ambulance will be here in a minute. I left word for John. The police are on their way.
DOROTHY: ( screams )
LOVE ME,: She looks up at Mrs. Williams.
DOROTHY: ( continuing )
DOROTHY: ( continuing )
JEFFREY: Sandy? .Sandy, please.
MRS. WILLIAMS: I'll get a coat for her. She leaves the room hurriedly.
SANDY: ( crying ) Jeffrey? .What's going on?
JEFFREY: Shh. I'll tell you.
DOROTHY: ( quietly ) They hurt his head.
JEFFREY: Who, Dorothy?
DOROTHY: ( whispers ) Don. help him. HELP HIM!! DONNY!!!! A huge, roaring wind sound comes up. Dorothy starts screaming.
SANDY: ( crying ) I still love you Jeffrey. Mrs. Williams comes to put a coat around Dorothy. Mrs. Williams is The Paramedics enter the house.
JEFFREY: I should go with her, Sandy.
SANDY: Go ahead.
JEFFREY: . Sandy?.
SANDY: Go ahead! Jeffrey turns slowly and gets into the ambulance.
DOROTHY: Hold me, Don.
JEFFREY: Don?. Where is he?
DOROTHY: ( straining her eyes to HELP HIM!! Promise me you'll help him!
JEFFREY: I promise, Dorothy. I promise.
DOROTHY: Hold me. I'M FALLING! She bolts up screaming directly into Jeffrey's face. Her beaten face and milky eyes are a study in horror.
JEFFREY: Mrs. Williams?. Is Sandy there? Please. Sandy? ( pause ) Sandy, please. . forgive me. I love you.
SANDY: ( in phone, struggling I forgive you. I just couldn't watch. I love you Jeffrey. I love you. Is she okay?. How horrible. What?
JEFFREY: ( in phone ) Please get to your father and send him and the police to Dorothy's apartment right away. Be sure your father comes. Something is happening over there. They're hurting someone. the guy she loves. Tell them to hurry. I'm going over right now.
JEFFREY: Yes I'm going. I have to. I love you. I will, believe me.
SANDY: ( over the radio ) No. he only wants my father to come over. It's very important. he said someone was hurt and he wants Detective Williams there. well, find him!!
FLASHBACK: He plays the look into the apartment again in his mind and again.
POLICEMAN #1: He hasn't fired a shot for six minutes. maybe we got him. get on the radio. get Detective Williams. ask him if we can rush the son of a bitch. A policeman runs off. more shots are fired into the building but none are returned. The policeman comes running back.
POLICEMAN #2: It's in the works already. we're in there. they're goin' down the back stairs now. It won't be long. and they'll have us rush 'em from here. one whistle and we go. Suddenly there is a long barrage of gunfire into Frank's apartment. Then a loud whistle.
POLICEMAN #1: That's it. let's go. Police race across the street to Frank's building.
JEFFREY: ( speaking to T.R. Gordon who doesn't I'm leaving now. I'll let them find you all on their own. find all this horror on their own. Good bye. He goes out and closes the door.
JEFFREY: So. Frank escaped. He rounds the corner on a landing on the stairway and goes down another floor. and another. At the next landing, something out the window catches his eye. He notices a man get out of the car. He recognizes the man. It is the well-dressed man he saw with the alligator briefcase. Jeffrey watches the man come toward Dorothy's building. Then his eye goes back to the man's car. It is Frank's car. He notices the man is carrying a police radio.
JEFFREY: ( to himself ) Frank's car. Is this man a cop? He has a radio!. So did Frank though and he's no cop. that's for sure. and he's driving Frank's car. who is he? The man enters the building at the front entrance directly below Jeffrey. Jeffrey starts climbing back up the stairs. thinking faster.
JEFFREY: What happened that day?.
FLASHBACK: Jeffrey remembers the well-dressed man come out with the Yellow Man.
JEFFREY: and out came. No it couldn't be. But I think it is!! It's Frank!! Jeffrey runs like mad up to Dorothy's apartment. He looks back once and sees the well-dressed man hurrying up the stairs. CLOSEUP on well-dressed man's face. It is Frank, underneath a very good Jeffrey has trouble getting the key out of his pocket. He fumbles with it and it drops to the floor. Frank climbs the stairs. Finally the key goes in and Jeffrey frantically opens the door. He rushes into the room.
JEFFREY: ( into the radio ) Detective Williams!! Detective Williams!!
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: ( over radio ) ( thinks; hits himself in the ( thinks some more - fast ) DETECTIVE WILLIAMS
JEFFREY: Yes it's me!!! Frank is on his way up to Dorothy's apartment. Detective Williams. hurry. I'm in the apartment. hurry. I'm hiding in the back We're ten minutes away and moving as fast as we can.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: We're ten minutes away and moving as fast as we can.
FRANK: ( calling pleasantly in the direction of the back bedroom ) Hey neighbor. shit for brains. You forgot I have a police radio. I know where your cute little butt is hiding. Here I come! Ready or not! He starts down the hall to the back bedroom. The police radio which Jeffrey planted under the bed and Frank's radio both start broadcasting. Frank turns his radio off - now only the one under the bed plays.
FRANK: Hey fuck. I can hear you radio! .Hey you stupid fuck. you got about a second to live. Jeffrey watches Frank reach inside his coat for his gun. He watches Frank sneak to the back bedroom area. Jeffrey turns and looks at the Yellow Man. He gets an idea. He quickly rushes out of the closet - feels inside the Yellow Man's coat for his police gun. It's there. He gets it but it causes the Yellow Man to moan and leap some in another almost death-spasm. Jeffrey takes the bloody pistol and races back inside the closet frantically catching his breath. Just then he hears Frank in the back room.
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: ( to Jeffrey )
JEFFREY: Does Dorothy know her husband is dead?
DETECTIVE WILLIAMS: Not yet.
JEFFREY: Oh my God. Is her son OK?
F.B.I. MAN: We're looking for him. In your opinion, why did Frank kidnap Dorothy's son and He became obsessed with her. She hated him. He had to have her. He kidnapped them to control her. to make her do things. Then she wanted to commit suicide so he started cutting off ears as a warning to her to stay alive. I'm not kidding. Frank loved blue. blue velvet. He had to have Dorothy cause her whole life was blue.
JEFFREY: He became obsessed with her. She hated him. He had to have her. He kidnapped them to control her. to make her do things. Then she wanted to commit suicide so he started cutting off ears as a warning to her to stay alive. I'm not kidding. Frank loved blue. blue velvet. He had to have Dorothy cause her whole life was blue.
F.B.I. MAN: You seemed to see some very interesting things on your little escapade with Dorothy Vallens.
JEFFREY: Yeah. I guess I did. with a worried look ) What's going to happen to me?
F.B.I. MAN: We're going to leave that up to Detective Williams. I'll tell you though. you're okay. you shot a real son of a bitch.
JEFFREY: Yeah. I sure know that. Yeah, but how many more are out there?
SANDY: Jeffrey. Lunch is ready. Jeffrey opens his eyes. He looks around confused for a moment. He sees Okay. I'll be right in. Sandy goes back inside. Suddenly, a big red ROBIN chirps loudly above. Jeffrey looks up at it sitting in the cherry tree. The Robin and Jeffrey seems to exchange a special look. Jeffrey smiles up at the fat bird. He gets off the lawn chair and walks away from us toward the back door of the house. As he passes his father and Detective Williams:
JEFFREY: Okay. I'll be right in. Sandy goes back inside. Suddenly, a big red ROBIN chirps loudly above. Jeffrey looks up at it sitting in the cherry tree. The Robin and Jeffrey seems to exchange a special look. Jeffrey smiles up at the fat bird. He gets off the lawn chair and walks away from us toward the back door of the house. As he passes his father and Detective Williams:
JEFFREY: How ya doin' Dad?
MR. BEAUMONT: ( distant voice ) Hey Jeff. I'm feelin' so much better.
JEFFREY: Good deal Dad. He and Detective Williams share a smile.
SANDY: ( Referring to the bird ) Look Jeffrey.
JEFFREY: ( As he joins Aunt Barbara and Yeah. I just saw him outside. Maybe the robins are here.
AUNT BARBARA: I don't see how they do it. I could never eat a bug.
THE END: Writers : David Lynch
