THIRD DRAFT: Converted to PDF by SCREENTALK
RACINE: The Seawater Inn. My family used to eat dinner there twenty-five years ago. Now somebody's torched it to clear the lot.
RACINE: Probably one of my clients.
RACINE: ( back still turned ) It's four a.m.
ANGELA: I go on duty at Miami Airport at Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 2.
ANGELA: You've had your fun. You're spent. I'll just slip into my uniform here and slip away.
RACINE: My history's burning up out here.
ANGELA: Hey, I don't mind. I'm leaving. Why do they make these damn skirts so hard to zip.
RACINE: Where's your hat?
JUDGE COSTANZA: Mr. Racine, I do no longer care whether these alleged toilets were
RACINE: Judge Costanza, perhaps when I've presented all
JUDGE COSTANZA: Yeah, yeah. If I were you, I'd recommend to your client that held quickly do as Mr. Lowenstein here has suggested plead nolo contendre, file Chapter Eleven and agree never to do business with Okeelanta County again.
RACINE: You would look favorably on that?
JUDGE COSTANZA: ( nods ) He can walk. But don't test my patience for even five more minutes. If he hesitates, I'll nail him.
RACINE: I'll talk to him.
JUDGE COSTANZA: Mr. Racine. Next time you come into my courtroom I hope you've got either a better defense or a better class of client.
RACINE: Thank you, Your Honor.
LOWENSTEIN: I think I've underestimated you, Ned. I don't know why it took me so long. You've started using your incompetence as a weapon.
RACINE: ( smiles ) My defense was evolving. You guys got scared. Costanza doesn't like me. What'd I do to him?
LOWENSTEIN: He's an unhappy man, Thinks he should be Circuit Court by now. Here he is in a state with really top-notch corruption and he's stuck with the county toilets. I'm surprised you weren't in on that toilet caper. Could have been that quick score you've always been searching for.
RACINE: Maybe Costanza was in on it. That's why he was mad.
STELLA: What's the word from the hallowed halls of justice? Anything juicy?
LOWENSTEIN: Maybe Stella was in on it. Stella, when you gonna get a real air conditioner in here.
STELLA: You don't like it there's lots of other places.
LOWENSTEIN: They don't have you. Gotta go.
LOWENSTEIN: You can't buy me. No sirree, I don't come cheap. Lowenstein, you're a fag.
A VOICE: Lowenstein, you're a fag.
STELLA: Why does he do that?
RACINE: He's pretty good, that's the weird Did you hear about Dr. Block?
STELLA: Did you hear about Dr. Block?
RACINE: No. Do I want to?
STELLA: ( leans toward him, Agnes Marshall.
RACINE: ( the thought That must have been Mrs. Block's idea, some kind of punishment.
STELLA: It was! How'd you know? Christ, you're plugged in better than me. So you must know about Mrs. Block's friend in Ocean Grove.
RACINE: Stella, this is beneath even you. Things must be slow.
STELLA: It's the heat.
RACINE: Mrs. Singer, I would have gladly come to the house.
MRS. SINGER: No. no, the doctor says I should walk and I had some shopping. Not that that quack knows what he's talking about. I tell you, Mr. Racine, I'm not sure his testimony is going to be very useful.
RACINE: Don't worry about it. I'll find you a doctor who's more understanding. Is it bad today?
MRS. SINGER: Oooh, you can't imagine. Nothing can make up for the pain they've caused me.
RACINE: How well I know. We'll sue those reckless bastards dry. Excuse my Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 7.
MRS. SINGER: Don't apologize. That's the kind of attitude you've got to have these
RACINE: You can stand here with me if you want, but you'll have to agree not to talk about the heat.
MATTY: I'm a married woman.
RACINE: Meaning what?
MATTY: Meaning I'm not looking for company.
RACINE: Then you should have said 'I'm a happily married woman.'
MATTY: That's my business.
RACINE: How happy I am.
MATTY: How happy I am.
RACINE: And how, happy is that?
MATTY: You're not too smart, are you?
MATTY: I like that in a man.
RACINE: What else you like Ugly? Lazy? Horny? I got 'em all.
MATTY: You don't look lazy.
MATTY: Tell me, does chat like that work with most women?
RACINE: Some. If they haven't been around I wondered. Thought maybe I was out of touch.
MATTY: I wondered. Thought maybe I was out of touch.
RACINE: How 'bout I buy you a drink?
MATTY: I told you. I've got a husband.
RACINE: I'll buy him one too.
MATTY: He's out of town.
RACINE: My favorite kind. We'll drink to He only comes up on the weekends.
MATTY: He only comes up on the weekends.
RACINE: I'm liking him better all the time. You better take me up on this quick. In another forty-five minutes I'm going to give up and walk away.
MATTY: You want to buy me something? I'll take one of these.
RACINE: What kind?
MATTY: Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 10.
RACINE: ( to Vendor ) Make it two.
RACINE: ( to Matty ) You're not staying in Miranda Beach. ( she shakes her I would have noticed you.
MATTY: Is this town that small? Pinehaven. You're staying up in Pinehaven, on the waterway. You have a house.
RACINE: Pinehaven. You're staying up in Pinehaven, on the waterway. You have a house.
MATTY: How'd you know?
RACINE: You look like Pinehaven.
MATTY: How does Pinehaven look?
RACINE: Well tended.
MATTY: Yes, I'm well tended, all right. Well tended. What about you?
RACINE: Me? I need tending. I need someone to take care of me. Rub my tired muscles. Smooth out my sheets.
MATTY: Get married.
RACINE: I just need it for tonight.
MATTY: Good. Nice move, Matty.
RACINE: Matty. I like it. Right over your At least it's cool. I'm burning up.
MATTY: At least it's cool. I'm burning up.
RACINE: I asked you not to talk about the Would you get me a paper towel or something? Dip it in some cold water.
MATTY: Would you get me a paper towel or something? Dip it in some cold water.
RACINE: Right away. I'll even wipe it off for you.
MATTY: You don't want to lick it?
PINEHAVEN: There's money here. Many of the homes are not visible from the street only their gates announce their presence. Those that can be seen are sprawling and lavish. The Waterway appears to the left. A large white yacht cruises slowly by.
MATTY: Look who's here. Isn't this a I know you.
RACINE: I know you.
MATTY: You're the one that doesn't want to talk about the heat. Too bad. I'd tell you about my chimes.
RACINE: What about them?
MATTY: The wind chimes on my porch. They keep ringing and I go out there expecting a cool breeze. That's what they've always meant. But not this summer, This summer it's just hot air.
RACINE: Do I remind you of hot air?
RACINE: Bourbon, any kind, on the rocks. What are you doing in Pinehaven?
MATTY: What are you doing in Pinehaven?
RACINE: I'm no yokel. Why, I was all the way to Miami once.
MATTY: There are some men, once they get a whiff of it, they'll trail you like a hound.
RACINE: I'm not that eager.
MATTY: What is your name, anyway?
RACINE: ( offers his hand ) Ned Racine.
MATTY: Matty Walker. Are you all right?
RACINE: Are you all right?
MATTY: ( laughs ) Yes. My temperature runs a couple degrees high. Around 100 all the time I don't mind it. It's the engine or something.
RACINE: Maybe you need a tune-up.
MATTY: Don't tell me you have just the right tool.
RACINE: I don't talk that way.
MATTY: How'd you find me, Ned?
RACINE: This is the only joint in Pinehaven.
MATTY: How'd you know I drink?
RACINE: You seemed like a woman with all the You shouldn't have come. You're going to be disappointed.
MATTY: ( smiles ) You shouldn't have come. You're going to be disappointed.
RACINE: ( referring to the What'd I do?
MATTY: ( indicating Racine's A lot of them have tried that seat. You're the first one I've let stay.
RACINE: ( spotting a few You must come here a lot.
MATTY: Most men are little boys.
RACINE: Maybe you should drink at home.
MATTY: Too quiet.
RACINE: Maybe you shouldn't dress like that.
MATTY: This is a blouse and a skirt. I don't know what you're talking about.
RACINE: You shouldn't wear that body.
MATTY: I don't like my body much. It's never been right.
MATTY: Sometimes, I don't know. I get so sick of everything, I'm not sure I care anymore. Do you know what I mean, Ned?
RACINE: ( he's not sure ) I know that sometimes the shit comes down SO heavy I feel like I should wear a hat.
MATTY: Yeah, that's what I mean.
MATTY: I think I'll get out of here now. I'm going home.
RACINE: I'll take you.
MATTY: I have a car.
RACINE: I'll follow you. I want to see the You want to see the chimes.
MATTY: You want to see the chimes.
RACINE: I want to hear them.
MATTY: That's all. If I let you, that's I'm not looking for trouble.
RACINE: ( gestures his I'm not looking for trouble.
MATTY: ( very serious ) I mean it. I like you. But my life is complicated enough.
MATTY: This is my community bar. I might have to come here with my husband some time. Would you leave before me? Wait in your car? I know it seems silly.
RACINE: I don't know who we're going to fool. You've been pretty friendly.
MATTY: ( steadily ) Now leave me alone.
RACINE: ( angry ) Lady, you must be some kind of crazy!
MATTY: Remember your promise.
RACINE: Just like my place.
RACINE: No help?
MATTY: She goes home nights.
RACINE: You're not nervous alone?
MATTY: EXT. SECOND FLOOR PORCH - NIGHT The TINKLING is distinct out here. Matty and Racine come out onto the porch. There are about thirty wind chimes of various, lovely designs crystal, metal, wood hanging at intervals from the rim of the wide porch awning, completely encircling Matty and Racine. Halfway down the long lawn is a white gazebo. Beyond it, the waterway is shimmering in the moonlight. At the edge of the water is a small boat house. Racine walks along under the chimes, looking up at them. A smile plays across her face. He looks back at Matty,
RACINE: You do have chimes.
RACINE: What's that?
MATTY: A gazebo
RACINE: No, out there.
MATTY: Boat house.
RACINE: What is in there?
MATTY: Racine moves back and stands very close to her. He looks at her in the moonlight, but she concentrates on the distant water.
MATTY: It's a mess. There's a row boat, a lot of lounge chairs. things like
MATTY: I think you should go now.
RACINE: I just got here.
MATTY: You've seen them. Please go.
RACINE: You didn't bring me here to see your wind chimes.
MATTY: Yes, I did. I said what I meant. Do you ever do that?
RACINE: No. not very often.
RACINE: I don't think you want me to go.
MATTY: Yes. Please.
RACINE: There's nothing to be afraid of.
MATTY: There is for me.
MATTY: Thank you. I'm sorry, I shouldn't have lot you come.
RACINE: You're not so tough after all, are No. I'm weak.
MATTY: No. I'm weak.
MATTY: Yes, yes.
RACINE: That's right. that's right.
MATTY: Please, please .
RACINE: I like this place. It's got a nice You were on top.
RACINE: So it could use a better mattress. See to it, will you?
RACINE: ( reacting ) Hey, gimme a break here. It takes a little while.
MATTY: ( ignoring him, It's your fault.
RACINE: ( smiling ) It takes me a good thirty seconds.
MATTY: Are you sure? I just want to make sure here.
RACINE: Jesus, I think you're right you better be on the bottom.
MATTY: No, you misunderstood this is my new saddle, and I just want to
RACINE: Wow! No, I must object
RACINE: ( finally, breathless )
RACINE: What are you doing?
MATTY: I've got to wash these.
RACINE: You're afraid of your maid?
MATTY: That's right. My mother told me "knowledge is power."
RACINE: This is an interesting interpretation. Is that why you've started smoking my brand?
MATTY: No one must know. Promise me, Ned. No one.
RACINE: Hey, lady, wanna make love?
MARY ANN: I don't know. Maybe This sure is a friendly town.
RACINE: I'm sorry.
MARY ANN: ( mock hurt feelings ) You are? You mean the offers no
RACINE: I feel like a jerk.
MARY ANN: Maybe you were supposed to deliver it next door? You must be looking for the lady of the house.
SAM: Are you crazy, lady? Didn't you hear the siren?
MATTY: Ned, this is Mary Ann. We were just meeting. Ned made me feel very welcome.
MARY ANN: ( smiling ) We were just meeting. Ned made me feel very welcome.
RACINE: I'm an idiot. Nice to meet you. Are you staying in town?
MARY ANN: No, no, just passing through. Nice area. A little hot for my tastes.
RACINE: It's unusual. We're famous for our cool breezes.
MATTY: ( to Mary Ann ) Do you want to stay for dinner?
MARY ANN: ( negative ) Got to go, got to go.
MARY ANN: You two have fun now.
RACINE: I didn't see her car. I'm sorry. I got to be more careful.
MATTY: Mary Ann's an old friend. She's like a sister to me. She wants me to be happy.
RACINE: I never knew. Maybe worshipping women instead of God. But it never did anything for me.
RACINE: MATTY ( O.S. )
RACINE: You're killing me.
MATTY: Is there any more ice? I'm burning
MATTY: He's coming up tomorrow.
MATTY: I can't stand the thought of him. He's small and mean. and weak.
RACINE: Come on! It's been three days. I want to see you
RACINE: I'm going. I'm going.
RACINE: I'm here.
MATTY: ( choking back her Good evening, sir. welcome to. to Flight 413 . nonstop to .
RACINE: What do you take me for?
MATTY: Don't you like it?
RACINE: You think I'm a kid?
MATTY: You don't like it? I thought you went for this stuff.
MATTY: Wait . wait . I want to tell you about the thing. the thing that will drop from the ceiling. in case the cabin suddenly depressurizes
MATTY: ( finally ) What are we doing here?
RACINE: ( hushed ) ( CRACK, CRACK )
MATTY: I want to be in bed.
RACINE: Is that all you ever think about?
RACINE: Hey! I'm kidding.
MATTY: Yes . that's all I ever think about . You and me. Your body near mine, close. I'm not right when you're not with me. I get the shakes. And each time, when I first see you, I shake even more. For a while. And then I get calm. I feel safe . I've never been this way. I can't remember how I lived before.
RACINE: You look terrible. Don't you sleep?
LOWENSTEIN: I had a dream last night that was so boring it woke me up. I was afraid to go back to sleep. Where the hell have you been?
RACINE: What do you mean, I been around.
LOWENSTEIN: I've barely seen you for a month. Wait a minute it's some new quiff, isn't it? What's wrong with me.
LOWENSTEIN: You've never been shy about that
RACINE: Hey. You weren't at the Y last week. We lost.
GRACE: Hey. You weren't at the Y last week. We lost.
LOWENSTEIN: ( about Racine ) He's getting discreet. I can't believe it.
GRACE: Whatcha got in pie today, Stella?
STELLA: ( glancing behind Cherry, cherry. and cherry.
GRACE: What do you recommend?
STELLA: I like the cherry.
GRACE: Bring it on. And a gigantic Coke.
LOWENSTEIN: I'm really disappointed, Racine. I've been living vicariously off you for years. If you shut up on me, I'll have just my wife.
RACINE: There's nothing to tell. I lead a lonely life.
GRACE: Right. And it's gonna snow later . And people are basically decent.. . Must be someone I know. Let's see someone in uniform.
LOWENSTEIN: . And people are basically decent.. . Must be someone I know. Let's see someone in uniform.
LOWENSTEIN: .no Army personnel around. Waitress. Could it be.
LOWENSTEIN: I know, I know you finally got to
LOWENSTEIN: How was it? Did she let you into the no parking zone?
STELLA: I'll have you know Glenda is seriously involved with a narc from Palm Beach.
RACINE: ( smiling his There you are.
LOWENSTEIN: A narc from Palm Beach? Is that his How's the cop business, Oscar?
RACINE: How's the cop business, Oscar?
GRACE: Real good. Always starts hoppin' in weather like this. When it gets hot, people try to kill each other.
STELLA: It's true. I could tell you some people who'll be dead if we don't get a break soon.
GRACE: We've got more of everything bad since the wave started. It's the crisis atmosphere. People dress different, feel different, sweat more. They wake up cranky and they never recover. Look at Lowenstein. Things are just a little askew. Pretty soon people think the old rules aren't in effect. They start breaking them. Figure no one'll care, cause it's emergency time. time out.
LOWENSTEIN: Oscar, I just don't understand how you could be doing advanced theoretical thinking like that and still be stuck working in our little Lowenstein dreams of bigger things.
GRACE: ( good-humored ) Lowenstein dreams of bigger things.
LOWENSTEIN: Assistant County Prosecutor isn't the end for me, fellows.
RACINE: Hell, no. Someday Deputy County When the truth comes out about some of the dirt I've been involved in,
LOWENSTEIN: When the truth comes out about some of the dirt I've been involved in,
GLENDA: Hello, Ned.
RACINE: Hi, Glenda.
MATTY: Don't say it, if you don't mean it. Please, Ned, don't.
RACINE: I do. I want you with me.
MATTY: I'm going to tell Edmund I want a divorce. I won't stay any longer. I would have, if you hadn't come along. The life is comfortable. I was willing to go on. But you've reminded me of what it can be. I know now that these last three years I've been living half a life. It's my fault, I don't deny it. You have to let yourself be bought. I did. I let it happen. I've lived so much of my life with nothing. When you have no money, you have no choices. I don't care what they say money is freedom. That's something they don't teach you in school. But I found out. And when Edmund came along when I saw a chance to stop struggling I took it. I'm not ashamed.
RACINE: ( kisses her, smiles ) It is conceivable I'll make a buck ( hugs him closer ) Oh, I know you will, darling. I didn't mean that. I know you will. But it doesn't matter. It's you I want. That's all.
MATTY: ( hugs him closer ) Oh, I know you will, darling. I didn't mean that. I know you will. But it doesn't matter. It's you I want. That's all.
RACINE: Anyway, you'll come out all right.
MATTY: Of the divorce?
RACINE: Yeah. He's ripe.
MATTY: No. I signed a pre-nuptial agreement.
RACINE: He insisted. He blamed it on his sister Roz she's always hated me but I know he wanted it too.
MATTY: He insisted. He blamed it on his sister Roz she's always hated me but I know he wanted it too.
RACINE: How is it?
MATTY: Bad. I get some money for a year. Not much. That's it. But I don't care, Ned. Not if I can be with you.
MATTY: Does it matter, Ned? Tell me the truth please. I'll understand, I swear to you.
RACINE: The truth? I wish you were going to be loaded. Does it matter? No. No.
MATTY: God, you've made me happy. It's time for your present. From now on, when it starts coming down on you, I'll be there to protect
MATTY: From now on, when it starts coming down on you, I'll be there to protect
MATTY: Put it on! I'll bet I guessed the size right.
MATTY: I love it.
RACINE: I want to see.
MATTY: Look in my eyes. Can you see yourself?
MATTY: Matty opens the door of the Stingray and sits in the passenger seat with her legs out. She rolls up the window in that door as Racine stands before it. The glass capture the moonlight to make a perfect mirror. As the window goes up, Racine's reflection appears on the glass, posing in his hat. At the same time, Matty's face disappears from view.
BEVERLY: Big weekend planned?
RACINE: Nope, Small weekend. Tiny little There's jazz tonight at the beach. if you're not doing anything.
BEVERLY: There's jazz tonight at the beach. if you're not doing anything.
RACINE: Beverly, do yourself a big favor and forget it.
BEVERLY: Forget what?
RACINE: Whatever you're thinking.
RACINE: ( filtered ) Come to me.
MATTY: ( filtered ) Come to me.
RACINE: Did you tell him?
MATTY: ( filtered, after a No. I couldn't.
RACINE: Okay, I'm coming.
RACINE: How do you know?
MATTY: I saw the will once. He showed it to me. He was trying to prove something . how much he loved me or something.
RACINE: How'd he get so fat?
MATTY: The stock market, investments, real estate. He doesn't tell me anything, but I've picked up a little. I know they own a lot of land along the shore here.
RACINE: Who's "they"'
MATTY: ( she doesn't know ) He's never introduced me to anyone. I'm not sure if they're all ( snorts at the I wonder what they call themselves. Maybe I've heard of them.
RACINE: ( snorts at the I wonder what they call themselves. Maybe I've heard of them.
MATTY: They own that old place in Miranda Beach, The Breakers. I know that.
RACINE: ( surprised ) The Breakers? I thought Hermie Fisher owned that land.
MATTY: ( shrugs ) Edmund mentioned it once.
MATTY: Ned, it scares me to talk about these You know.
RACINE: You know.
MATTY: You know.
RACINE: No. I don't.
MATTY: Let's just not, okay? Let's not think about all he's got.
RACINE: ( pressing ) What is it, Matty? Tell me exactly what frightens you.
MATTY: I'm afraid. because when I think about it, I wish that he'd die. That's really what I want. It's horrible and ugly and It's what I most want.
RACINE: That's where we're at, isn't it, What do you mean?
MATTY: What do you mean?
RACINE: That's what we're both thinking how good it'd be for us if he were gone. It'd be real sweet for us.
MATTY: Don't talk about it, Ned. Please don't. Talk is dangerous. Sometimes it makes things happen, it makes it Don't let it scare you. Because he's not gonna die. There's nothing wrong with him, is there? There's no reason to think he's gonna die, is there?
RACINE: Don't let it scare you. Because he's not gonna die. There's nothing wrong with him, is there? There's no reason to think he's gonna die, is there?
RACINE: That's right. So we might as well forget about it, It's not gonna just happen to make things nice for us. It won't just happen.
MATTY: I'm afraid, Ned.
RACINE: Maybe that's a smart way to be now, Matty. Maybe we both should be.
RACINE: The only thing wrong with your husband right now. is us.
RACINE: Well, well. Hello to you
MATTY: ( to Racine )
MATTY: Darling, I'd like you to meet Mr. Racine. I'm sorry. I don't know your first name.
RACINE: He offers his hand and Walker encloses it firmly in his.
WALKER: Edmund Walker. Nice to meet you.
MATTY: Mr. Racine is the lawyer I told you You remember. He had a client who wanted to buy the house. I told him we weren't selling.
WALKER: That hasn't changed, has it?
RACINE: That hasn't changed, has it?
WALKER: No, we're very happy with it.
RACINE: ( nods ) I can understand that. It's a terrific place.
WALKER: Are you going in?
RACINE: I was just going to grab a bite.
WALKER: Join us.
RACINE: No. Thanks very much, but I don't want to interfere with
WALKER: Don't be silly. Come on. We have room for three, don't we?
WALKER: I've heard this place is great. But you can't get near it on the weekends and I don't get down during the week Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 45.
RACINE: Is that right?
LATER: They have finished their salad at a table toward the back. A Waiter comes and takes away their dishes. Walker has taken off his glasses and is cleaning the lenses with a lovely handkerchief. He does this cleaning with enormous care and inordinate relish. His manner is a mix of gruff charm and hinted menace. There's something dangerous about the man and it's perfectly distilled in his smile, which is quick, frequent and vaguely threatening.
WALKER: I was a lawyer. Still am, I guess. But I don't practice. Went to Columbia. You?
RACINE: F. S. U. Good school. I got bored with it quick. I guess I didn't have the temperament. I wanted to make the money faster. Is there a living in it here?
WALKER: ( nods ) Good school. I got bored with it quick. I guess I didn't have the temperament. I wanted to make the money faster. Is there a living in it here?
RACINE: I can afford to send my shirts out. And eat here once a month, if I don't order an appetizer.
WALKER: I figured an honest lawyer doesn't make much and the other kind was too slimy for me. I'd rather be upfront about shafting somebody.
MATTY: Edmund, really. It's Mr. Racine's That's all right. I don't like it What's to like. That's the way of the world. Most people despise their Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 46.
RACINE: That's all right. I don't like it What's to like. That's the way of the world. Most people despise their Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 46.
WALKER: What's to like. That's the way of the world. Most people despise their Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 46.
RACINE: Do you?
WALKER: No. I love it. But it's not a job.
RACINE: What is it, exactly?
WALKER: Various things. This and that. Here and there.
RACINE: You don't have to be specific.
WALKER: ( that smile again ) Finance, basically. Venture capital, Investments, real estate. We're into a few things.
RACINE: Yeah? Around here?
WALKER: Some. We own some things here.
MATTY: Edmund's company owns The Breakers.
RACINE: Is that right?
WALKER: It's not that simple. We have an interest in a few places along the shore. For the land. You know. Someday. There's no explaining it to her.
MATTY: ( to Racine ) I'm too dumb. Woman, you know.
MATTY: I'll be right back.
WALKER: She's something, isn't she?
RACINE: ( nods ) A lovely lady.
WALKER: Yes, she is. I'm crazy about her. If I ever thought she was seeing another guy. I don't know. I'd understand how it could happen. Her being the way she is. I'd understand it. But I think I'd kill the guy with my bare hands.
RACINE: That's understanding.
WALKER: You wouldn't believe the dorkus she was with when I met her. The guy came to us with a business proposition. We're always looking for opportunities. If the conditions are right. We're willing to take an occasional risk, if the downside isn't too steep. But this guy hadn't done his homework, he didn't know the bottom line. That's how I knew he was full of shit. You've got to know the bottom line. That's all that really counts.
WALKER: He didn't have the goods, this guy. He was like a lot of guys you run into they want to get rich, they want to do it quick, they want to be there with one score.
WALKER: But they're not willing to do what's necessary. Do you know what I mean?
RACINE: I'm not sure. You mean, lay the groundwork? Earn it?
WALKER: No. I mean do what's necessary. Whatever's necessary.
RACINE: Yeah. I know that kind of guy. I can't stand that. It makes me sick.
WALKER: Me too.
RACINE: I'm not like that.
BEVERLY: There are some messages on your desk. Be back in an hour. Got to run.
RACINE: Jesus! Did Beverly see you?
MATTY: I waited till I saw her leave. Please don't be angry with me.
RACINE: Angry? I'm not angry How'd you get in?
MATTY: It didn't lock. Oh. Ned, hold me. Please just hold me, God, I love
MATTY: He left this morning. I had to see I know.
RACINE: ( kissing her )
MATTY: I couldn't call. I'm afraid to call. I was afraid you wouldn't let me Yes, that's right. You can't call. Never call. We have to be very careful now about the phone. The phone company keeps records.
RACINE: Yes, that's right. You can't call. Never call. We have to be very careful now about the phone. The phone company keeps records.
MATTY: I'm careful. I hated it, Ned. I hated sitting there with the two of you. I thought I was going to scream.
RACINE: ( distracted, You did good. ( finds his thought ) You've called my apartment from the No, never.
MATTY: No, never.
RACINE: No? Those two times
MATTY: I went to phone booths. I'm afraid of him, Ned. I'm always afraid.
RACINE: That's good. We have to be careful about the phones now.
MATTY: Why, Ned, why do you say this now?
RACINE: ( in his own thoughts ) We could account for a couple calls. We've had some contact. That would make sense. Why, Ned? What's happened?
MATTY: Why, Ned? What's happened?
RACINE: Because we're going to kill him. We both know that.
RACINE: That's what you want, isn't it? We knew it was coming. It's the only way we can get everything we want, isn't it?
RACINE: The man's gonna die for no reason but we want him dead.
RACINE: That's it then. We're gonna kill him. And I think I know how.
MATTY: It's real, then?
RACINE: Yeah, it's real all right, and if we're not careful, it's gonna be the last real thing we do.
RACINE: I know where he is. It's not far from here. I don't want you with I thought we settled that. I'll wait in the car, but I want to take the risks with you. We're both doing this.
MATTY: I thought we settled that. I'll wait in the car, but I want to take the risks with you. We're both doing this.
TEDDY: Whatsa matter, you can't think with a little music? Like this, I said.
RACINE: That's it?
TEDDY: ( nods to the music ) It's fast. It's hot. It's simple. You can use the clock or rig it to something that moves. It starts big and it'll go with just the mag clips. If you want more, splash a little accelerator around.
RACINE: Just regular gasoline?
TEDDY: Regular, unleaded, supreme whatever you like, counselor. I got to tell you, though, this mama has a big It's easy to spot, even after the meltdown. They'll know it's arson.
RACINE: It's easy to spot, even after the meltdown. They'll know it's arson.
TEDDY: It's easy to spot, even after the meltdown. They'll know it's arson.
RACINE: I don't care about that. That's all there is to it?
TEDDY: No. No-no-no-no. That ain't all there is to it.
RACINE: Hey, now I want to ask you something, Are you listening, asshole, because I like you? I got a serious question for you. What the fuck are you doing? This is not shit for you to be messing with. Are you ready to hear something? See if this sounds familiar. Anytime you try a decent crime, there is fifty ways to fuck up. If you think of twenty-five of them you're a genius. And you're no genius. You know who told me that?
TEDDY: Hey, now I want to ask you something, Are you listening, asshole, because I like you? I got a serious question for you. What the fuck are you doing? This is not shit for you to be messing with. Are you ready to hear something? See if this sounds familiar. Anytime you try a decent crime, there is fifty ways to fuck up. If you think of twenty-five of them you're a genius. And you're no genius. You know who told me that?
TEDDY: Listen, man, maybe you should let me do it for you. Gratis. I'll do it. I wouldn't even be on the street if it weren't for you.
RACINE: I hope you know what you're doin' you better be pretty damn sure about it. If you ain't sure, don't do it. Of course, that's my recommendation anyway don't do it. Because I tell you, Counselor, this arson, this is serious crime.
TEDDY: I hope you know what you're doin' you better be pretty damn sure about it. If you ain't sure, don't do it. Of course, that's my recommendation anyway don't do it. Because I tell you, Counselor, this arson, this is serious crime.
MATTY: I don't know why he's so crazy about her. Maybe because he never had any of his own. She's a cute little girl, all right, but other than that. I know this, though, her mother has worked plenty hard to keep Heather on Edmund's mind, Always bringing her around, reporting everything she does in school. That Roz is a smart one. And you know that anything Heather inherits goes straight to Roz. Heather won't even get a look at it. That's the part I can't stand. That's why it seems so wrong to have half of it go to her.
RACINE: That's the way it is. There's nothing we can do about it.
MATTY: Are you sure, Ned? I've been thinking about it. Maybe there is. The will is with his lawyer in Miami I know that. What if I could get him to bring it home? He did it once, he'd do it again. If I could swing it, couldn't we rewrite it? Change it. Then when he dies, I could find the new one. We could just change it a little. Every little change would mean a lot to us, End. You're a lawyer. You know how to write it. It wouldn't seem so odd. I could say he brought it home and we talked about it and decided to make some changes up here. And I knew you
RACINE: No. Forget it.
MATTY: I just don't see why Heather should take half
RACINE: Listen to me, Matty. Nothing strange can happen in his life right now, not one thing out of the ordinary. That's vital, that's the main thing. If anything does, the chances double that we get caught. You and I are walking out there on the edge every second now. One false move and we're gonna fall off. It'll be all over. You've got to remember that all the You'll get half of everything and it'll be plenty. No matter what it is, we're gonna be satisfied. We're not gonna get greedy. If we do, we'll get burned. You gotta believe me, baby, the odds that we'll get burned are good enough without looking for trouble.
MATTY: You're right, darling. I'm sorry. I know you're right.
RACINE: Okay. Gotta go.
MATTY: Be careful.
RACINE: I'm just going for a ride. I wish it was all this dangerous.
MATTY: I love you.
NIGHT: Racine drives his murder route. The roads are almost totally deserted. Intermittently he passes signs welcoming him to the towns as he travels south. A. The first stretch of his trip, Racine travels on a deserted back road with overhanging trees. A Teenage Hotrodder passes him and he is alone again. As he turns off the road, he checks his watch. B. He drives through a neighborhood of neat houses. No C. He turns onto a four line interstate. More traffic here long haul truckers, late night drinkers. D. He drives across a graceful drawbridge, rimmed by lights, over a canal. E. He drives toward the ocean beside a pretty lake in a park. A patrol car passes the other way. Racine checks his watch. F. At "The Breakers." Racine follows the same path as the police car he'd watched.
RACINE: The side door.
MATTY: The side door.
RACINE: Two A.M. I send him down.
MATTY: Two A.M. I send him down.
RACINE: We won't talk again after I leave here tonight. I'll be in Miami by noon Friday. You won't be able to reach me. When I see you again, he'll be dead.
MATTY: I'm so frightened.
WALKER: Hello, sweetheart. Have I got a nice present for you.
HEATHER: Hi, Aunt Matty!
MATTY: Heather. What a surprise.
WALKER: Jesus, take it easy. I thought I was tense.
MATTY: What are you doing?
WALKER: I can't sleep. I'm going down and get something to drink.
MATTY: He turns to look at her. She moves once on the bed, He peers at her in the darkness.
MATTY: I can't sleep, either.
MATTY: Lock the door, darling.
WALKER: You trying to kill me?
WALKER: I'm going downstairs. Do you want
MATTY: ( calling softly to I'll go down with you.
WALKER: ( at the top of the Christ, woman, did you ever hear of turning on the lights?
MATTY: Edmund. wait!
WALKER: ( stops ) What is it?
MATTY: ( whispering up at Put on a robe or something. What if Heather wakes up and comes down.
WALKER: ( grumbling ) Damn. She's not going to wake up at 2 o'clock in the morning.
WALKER: You don't really mind, do you? Roz will pick her up on Friday. And don't worry, Roz won't stay overnight.
MATTY: She can do whatever she wants.
WALKER: ( gives her a Listen, I don't know if I'll be able to come up next weekend. I'll know more later. I'll call you.
MATTY: My God, you scared me. You shouldn't be here. Heather's still here. She's upstairs.
RACINE: I miss you so badly. But it's too She won't wake up now.
MATTY: I miss you so badly. But it's too She won't wake up now.
RACINE: She won't wake up now.
MATTY: You're all wet.
RACINE: I've been out there waiting for two Aunt Matty?
HEATHER: Good morning, Aunt Matty. Hi, Betty.
HEATHER: Is there any more of that strawberry What do you say?
ROZ: What do you say?
HEATHER: I did.
MATTY: She did.
HEATHER: Thank you, Aunt Matty.
ROZ: Thanks, Matty. We appreciate it.
MATTY: Any time, Roz. She's a pleasure.
RACINE: MATTY ( O.S. )
RACINE: It's open.
MATTY: Why haven't you answered your phone?
RACINE: You took a chance coming here. Where's Edmund?
MATTY: He's not coming up this weekend. Why haven't you answered?
RACINE: I didn't want to talk. I just wanted to think.
MATTY: ( nods; then, after Can I get in with you?
MATTY: I don't know what Heather will tell Roz. Maybe nothing. Maybe she'll be embarrassed or afraid. Maybe she'll think she imagined the whole Maybe we all did.
RACINE: ( chuckles without Maybe we all did.
MATTY: We'll know if she does tell. Roz will report to Edmund quick enough. It's exactly what she's always wanted.
MATTY: I've been thinking, too.
RACINE: And what have you got?
MATTY: I think we should give it up. We haven't done anything criminal, yet.
RACINE: It's not too late to back out.
MATTY: That's right. I don't think we can do it.
RACINE: What do you mean?
MATTY: Things have already started to go wrong. I feel like we got to the edge and looked over and, well, it was too much. We'll just have to live with that.
MATTY: I'll divorce him. And we won't have his money. Part of me wants it so bad. I'd be lying if I said I didn't. But it's the worst part of me, the weakest part.
MATTY: All that matters is that we're You don't think I can pull it off.
RACINE: ( after a moment ) You don't think I can pull it off.
MATTY: It's not you, it's us. I'm sure I'll make some mistake.
RACINE: That's not what you really mean, is it, Matty?
MATTY: Yes it is.
RACINE: ( very calm, flat ) No, it isn't. You think he's too much for me. You think I'll fuck it up, get us caught.
MATTY: No, darling. Don't talk that way. It's not true.
RACINE: No? Well that's what I've been You're wrong. Don't think that, ever! I know you could do it. But all I care about is you. The money doesn't matter.
MATTY: You're wrong. Don't think that, ever! I know you could do it. But all I care about is you. The money doesn't matter.
RACINE: It does in this world, the one we're living in.
MATTY: Why torture ourselves about it?
RACINE: When's he coming back?
MATTY: That'll be it, then. Nothing will stop us.
RACINE: That'll be it, then. Nothing will stop us.
MATTY: Is that what you really want? Are you sure?
RACINE: Yeah. I wasn't before, but I am
RACINE: This time you're going to know how to reach me. I don't want any more
MATTY: What's wrong?
WALKER: ( whispering ) I think there's someone downstairs I heard something.
MATTY: Are you sure?
MATTY: ( whispering ) Should I call the police?
WALKER: ( low, from the Will you be quiet? I'm going to nail the bastard.
MATTY: ( aghast ) Edmund, what's that?
WALKER: Will you be quiet?
MATTY: I've never seen that.
WALKER: ( at the bedroom I've got a surprise for this fucker.
MATTY: Edmund, be careful!
MATTY: He has a gun!
WALKER: Suddenly, Racine bursts from the hall closet, the wooden plank raised above his head. He brings it down fast toward Edmund's head. Edmund reacts instinctively, raising his arm, the arm that holds the gun, to protect himself. The wooden plank smashes down half its force taken by Edmund's forearm, half by his head. The gun BLASTS once. One small window in the front door shatters and the bullet continues into the night. Edmund's revolver slides across the hall floor into a Edmund is on the floor, blood pouring from his scalp. But he is coming on like a crazed beast. His glasses askew, but still on his head, he has grasped Racine around the legs. With a powerful lunge, he pulls Racine's legs out. Racine crashes to the hall floor, losing the wooden Matty, frozen at the stair railing, cries out. Edmund is pulling Racine toward him with all his might, crawling up Racine's body as they both slide on the wood floor. Edmund reaches out one huge hand, and pulls Racine even closer. Racine puts his left hand into Edmund's face, his thumb flat against the lens of Edmund's glasses and pushes his head back. The glasses fly away and Racine loses his hold. Edmund comes on. Racine's right hand gropes gropes finds the wooden plank. He swings it up. The wooden plank describes a perfect arc into our view, and then out, finding its mark with a HORRIBLE THUD. Matty, up the stairs, turns away. Racine falls back on the floor.
RACINE: The cars at the end of the drive. Spend the fifteen minutes cleaning up inside, then come. You're gonna have to be careful in this fog. Are you all right?
RACINE: Fifteen minutes.
STOCKY TRUCKER: Hey, man, do you have any flares?
RACINE: Uh no. I don't think so.
STOCKY TRUCKER: ( irritated ) Could you check your trunk? We got kinda of a mess here.
RACINE: I don't have them. I told you. Don't put yourself out.
STOCKY TRUCKER: Don't put yourself out.
RACINE: ( a low growl ) Get the hell out of here and don't come back. ( a whisper ) Come on back here and fight like a
RAGGED BUM: ( a whisper ) Come on back here and fight like a
MATTY: Thank god. I thought
RACINE: The windows are suddenly illuminated by the beams of headlights. They grow brighter and a police patrol car, red light slowly revolving on the top, passes next to the Ford and moves off quietly in the FOG.
RACINE: ( whisper ) They're right on time and I'm running
RACINE: We won't talk for a long time.
BEVERLY: Ned. Miles Hardin. Do you want Who is he?
RACINE: Who is he?
BEVERLY: She says he's a lawyer from Miami.
RACINE: ( filtered ) Mr. Ned Racine?
SECRETARY: ( filtered ) Mr. Ned Racine?
RACINE: Miles Hardin calling.
SECRETARY: Miles Hardin calling.
HARDIN: ( filtered throughout ) Mr. Racine.
RACINE: This is Miles Hardin of Morris and Dale in Miami.
HARDIN: This is Miles Hardin of Morris and Dale in Miami.
RACINE: Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 78.
HARDIN: As you know, we represented Edmund Yes, well, Mrs. Walker has submitted the new will you wrote up there.
RACINE: Hardin seems to expect more of a response. Racine is Racine closes his eyes for a moment. The blood drains out of his face. He puts a hand out toward his desk.
HARDIN: Yes, well, Mrs. Walker has submitted the new will you wrote up there.
RACINE: Yes. I see.
HARDIN: And frankly, Mr. Racine, I think we may have a problem.
RACINE: Uh-huh. What problem is that?
HARDIN: Well, I'd rather discuss it in person. In fact I think it might be best if we could all get together down there. That is, if you wouldn't object.
RACINE: No no, that would be all right.
HARDIN: Good. We have a relationship with a firm in West Palm Shiller, I know of them.
RACINE: I know of them.
HARDIN: I've arranged to have the use of their offices. I thought we might try to make it tomorrow, say ten o'clock. Would that be possible for Yes, I think so.
RACINE: Yes, I think so.
HARDIN: Good. Mrs. Walker told me she would be back down there by then.
RACINE: Hardin clicks off. Racine hangs up slowly. He stares at the phone a long time. He gets up, his mind racing. He goes to the window and parts two of the blinds with his fingers. The sun makes him squint.
HARDIN: Hardin clicks off. Racine hangs up slowly. He stares at the phone a long time. He gets up, his mind racing. He goes to the window and parts two of the blinds with his fingers. The sun makes him squint.
RACINE: ( to Beverly ) Will you get me Mrs. Edmund Walker,
BEVERLY: I don't have her. Should I?
RACINE: I thought the temporary put her in. She came in while you were on vacation. Look it up. They were in Pinehaven, I think.
BEVERLY: ( filtered ) I get no answer at the Pinehaven Okay. Try again later.
RACINE: Okay. Try again later.
DAY: A Secretary leads Racine DOWN A HALLWAY of the richly appointed offices and ushers him into a
HARDIN: Miles Hardin, Mr. Racine.
RACINE: How are you?
HARDIN: I don't think you know Mrs. Kraft.
RACINE: ( shakes her head ) No. I don't. My condolences.
ROZ: Thank you.
RACINE: Mrs. Walker, I'm very sorry about your husband.
MATTY: Thank you, Mr. Racine.
HARDIN: You know Mr. Lowenstein.
RACINE: Hello, Peter.
LOWENSTEIN: Hi, Ned.
HARDIN: I asked Mr. Lowenstein to join us because he's handling the inquiry into Edmund's death for the County Prosecutor's office. He and I have discussed this matter and he's made is possible for us to speak very frankly here today. Off the record, so to speak.
HARDIN: Mrs. Walker explained to me that when she and her husband decided to make some minor changes, they just took care of it up here for simplicity's sake. And, indeed, as you know, the new will is almost identical to the old but for the disposition of a few items. At the risk of oversimplifying, the thrust of the will is to divide the estate in almost equal parts between Heather Kraft and Mrs. Walker. Would you agree with that assessment, Mr.
HARDIN: Mmmm. And you witnessed the signing by Edmund Walker along with this Mary Ann Simpson on July twenty- first. Apparently, it will be impossible for us to contact Miss Mary Ann is a lifelong friend of mine. She happened to be visiting on her way to Europe. I'm sure when she returns she'll get in touch with Although it's certainly not required. The witnesses to the signing of a will are not commonly available when the will is entered into probate. It's not standard by any means.
MATTY: Mary Ann is a lifelong friend of mine. She happened to be visiting on her way to Europe. I'm sure when she returns she'll get in touch with Although it's certainly not required. The witnesses to the signing of a will are not commonly available when the will is entered into probate. It's not standard by any means.
RACINE: ( eyeing Hardin ) Although it's certainly not required. The witnesses to the signing of a will are not commonly available when the will is entered into probate. It's not standard by any means.
HARDIN: Edmund Walker's death was not Pardon me. I'm sorry. I'm confused. Is there some question about the authenticity of the will?
ROZ: ( to Hardin ) Pardon me. I'm sorry. I'm confused. Is there some question about the authenticity of the will?
RACINE: I'm confused, too. Do you have a problem with the witnessing or the signatures? What is it you're getting No, there doesn't seem to be any problem here. This is Edmund Walker's last will and testament. I'm afraid the problem is elsewhere.
HARDIN: ( almost wistful ) No, there doesn't seem to be any problem here. This is Edmund Walker's last will and testament. I'm afraid the problem is elsewhere.
HARDIN: Would anyone mind if I smoked?
LOWENSTEIN: I don't need my own. I'll just breathe the air.
HARDIN: Everything's in order up to there. The problem comes in the language of the bequest to Heather. It's a technical matter.
HARDIN: It's a small thing, but it's the law. It forbids an inheritance to be passed down indefinitely for generations. Many general practitioner lawyers don't fully understand it. It doesn't come up much for them, because wills this complex are usually handled by estate departments in larger firms. Handled by lawyers who specialize in this type of work.
HARDIN: I know this is terribly confusing, but if you'll bear with me. I spotted the problem right away, but since Edmund's intent was clear, I thought it in everyone's best interest to try and get the will admitted into probate anyway, even though it was technically incorrect. I knew that a probate judge in Miami would spot the mistake right away. That's all they do all day, they're expert. So I thought I'd bring it up here to Okeelanta County since Edmund had the residence here and see if I could get lucky with a judge who didn't know estate law quite so Perhaps find one with the same kind of training as Mr. Racine.
HARDIN: Unfortunately, my plan backfired. I ran into a judge who'd had other dealings with Mr. Racine. A Judge Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org 84.
ROZ: Once again, Mr. Hardin, you've lost Yes, what does all this mean?
MATTY: Yes, what does all this mean?
HARDIN: It means, I'm afraid, that Edmund's will is invalid. Edmund Walker died interstate, as though there were no will at all.
MATTY: So. what happens now?
HARDIN: You don't know?
MATTY: ( irritated ) No, I don't.
HARDIN: Perhaps Mr. Racine would like to tell you.
RACINE: In the state of Florida, when a person dies without a will, and there are no children and no surviving parents, then the spouse inherits everything.
MATTY: My god. You mean. it's all mine?
HARDIN: Though that was clearly not your husband's intention.
MATTY: My god.
HARDIN: He intended Heather to benefit
MATTY: ( looking between Of course, of course, I understand. Of course.
HARDIN: As you can imagine, Mrs. Walkers given the circumstances of Edmund's death, none of this is going to happen. how should I say it.
MATTY: . Of course.
RACINE: You look good in black.
MATTY: I've missed you so badly. I need At first I couldn't figure out when you got ahold of my stationery and stuff. It finally came to me. Edmund's signature must have been a snap. And you knew I wasn't gonna challenge mine
RACINE: At first I couldn't figure out when you got ahold of my stationery and stuff. It finally came to me. Edmund's signature must have been a snap. And you knew I wasn't gonna challenge mine
MATTY: Please stop. I don't blame you for hating me right now.
RACINE: You've really done it, Matty. You really have.
MATTY: Will you come to the house tonight?
MATTY: I want you more right now than I ever have. I know how you must feel about me. But please come tonight.
RACINE: I hope you haven't done us in.
RACINE: Hi, guys. Just come on in, make yourself at home.
GRACE: Sorry about that.
LOWENSTEIN: Not me. The door was unlocked, inviting illegal entry. It's behavior like that makes Oscar's job so hard.
RACINE: Sorry, Oscar. Would you guys a beer?
LOWENSTEIN: No thanks, I already had one.
GRACE: I've gotta bring my wife up here. She thinks our house is the hottest place in the county.
RACINE: It ain't great this time of day.
GRACE: Ned, how did you get involved with this Matty Walker?
RACINE: ( takes a drink ) What do you mean?
GRACE: I mean she's poison, man. Tell me what you know about her old man's What read in the paper. He died in the fire. Looks like arson
RACINE: What read in the paper. He died in the fire. Looks like arson
LOWENSTEIN: Was arson.
RACINE: Okay, was arson. You don't know if he was setting it and messed up. or if that's just what someone wanted it to look like.
GRACE: Nah, he didn't set it. Somebody offend him.
RACINE: His people owned the place or That's right. A very rough group of fellows, too. They're arguing with the insurance company right now. It's possible they wanted to cut old Edmund out. I'm sure they're not too broken up over his departure. But this just doesn't seem like a neat way to handle something like It's not their style. They're very smooth. They'd rather destroy you than kill you. And they hate
GRACE: ( nods ) That's right. A very rough group of fellows, too. They're arguing with the insurance company right now. It's possible they wanted to cut old Edmund out. I'm sure they're not too broken up over his departure. ( grimaces ) But this just doesn't seem like a neat way to handle something like It's not their style. They're very smooth. They'd rather destroy you than kill you. And they hate
LOWENSTEIN: It's not their style. They're very smooth. They'd rather destroy you than kill you. And they hate
GRACE: Course guys like that make a lot of enemies. Coulda been a grudge match from the outside, I suppose. But me, I'm kinda interested in the grieving widow.
LOWENSTEIN: Her sister-in-law's got plenty of ideas along that line, too. She could barely contain herself today, I could tell. But she wants to wait and see how Matty treats her on the estate. She doesn't want to blow it.
GRACE: How'd you get involved?
RACINE: ( shrugs ) They asked me to re-do the will. I met with her and Edmund. It was pretty simple. This Mary Ann Simpson witnessed it with me. Walker didn't seem to think it was any big deal.
GRACE: That's it?
RACINE: That's it.
GRACE: What was this Simpson's story?
RACINE: I don't know. old friend of theirs, good-looking broad. She was just passing through.
GRACE: On her way to Europe?
GRACE: The passport people can't find any record of that.
GRACE: What do you think? About the wife?
RACINE: I suppose it's possible. I don't know much about her, except what I've seen. Wouldn't shock me, either way.
LOWENSTEIN: I've got a feeling she's very bad news. Take some incredibly intelligent advice and stay away from her.
GRACE: He's right for once.
RACINE: Well, I'm sorry, guys. I'm afraid I can't do that.
GRACE: Why not?
RACINE: First of all, did you get a look at
RACINE: That wouldn't be quite so meaningful, except that today she started coming on to me. And maybe you haven't heard but the lady is about to come into a great deal of money.
RACINE: The fact is, she's invited me out to her place tonight. And I'm going. And I'll keep on going as many nights, or days, or weekends, as she'll have Ned, that lady may have just killed her husband.
LOWENSTEIN: Ned, that lady may have just killed her husband.
RACINE: Peter, she's not gonna inherit anything by killing me.
GRACE: Ned, you've messed up before. You'll mess up again. That's your nature. But they've always been small-time. This might not be. She's trouble, Ned. The real thing. Big-time, major league trouble. Watch yourself.
MATTY: I know. I know. I know you'd probably like to kill me. I know. But please. you can hate me. punish me. hurt me if you want, but don't talk yet.
MATTY: Please, Ned.
MATTY: . Mary Ann and I left Wheaton together and went to Chicago. We didn't know what we were doing. I got in bad trouble with drugs. Speed. Really bad. I did things. Whatever's the evilest thing you can think of me now, I did worse things then. There's nothing lower than the animal I was then. Worse than you can imagine. I thought I would die. I prayed I would. And then a man helped me. He got me clean. He didn't want much in return, either. He was a lawyer and he put me to work in his office. I learned a lot there. One time I even thought I might go to law school. . That's where I picked up the business about making a will invalid. That happened to him once. I swear I would never have used that if I'd known about your case. I was afraid to tell you, Ned. I knew you wouldn't let me do it. I'm greedy, like you said. I wanted us to have it all.
MATTY: I don't blame you for thinking I'm bad. I am. I know it. I'd understand if you just cut me off now. If you never trusted me again. You'd probably be smart. But you must believe one thing. I love you. I love you and need you. I want to be with you forever. They already think you're involved.
RACINE: They already think you're involved.
MATTY: I don't care.
RACINE: There's nothing we can do about it now. In a little while we'll either have the money or we won't. It's out of our hands. I fired the housekeeper. We can stay together as long as we want. We're all alone here now.
MATTY: There's nothing we can do about it now. In a little while we'll either have the money or we won't. It's out of our hands. I fired the housekeeper. We can stay together as long as we want. We're all alone here now.
MATTY: I fired the housekeeper. We can stay together as long as we want. We're all alone here now.
RACINE: That's right.
LOWENSTEIN: He is mad.
RACINE: Nooo. No, I'm not mad. Why should I be mad just because my friend here, who I've know for years, wants to know of my whereabouts on the night of our recent local murder?
LOWENSTEIN: It's not so recent anymore. Maybe he's feeling some pressure. You brought this on yourself, man! I don't run this department, you know. There are people watching this thing. They hear you're out there banging the widow every night; it tends to call attention to you. So don't give me shit.
GRACE: You brought this on yourself, man! I don't run this department, you know. There are people watching this thing. They hear you're out there banging the widow every night; it tends to call attention to you. So don't give me shit.
RACINE: That's my business!
GRACE: This whole damn case is getting crazy.
LOWENSTEIN: ( to Grace ) Did you tell him about the glasses?
LOWENSTEIN: Seems Walker always ware glasses steel-rimmed glasses. He was a real fanatic about them.
LOWENSTEIN: But there were none on the scene. Coroner says they should've been there. He says that even after the fire the frames should've been seared into his well, you don't want to hear the details.
RACINE: So what?
GRACE: So it's looking more and more like he was killed somewhere else and brought there in his own car. Your honey, his wife, says he left the house in the middle of the night driving himself to some mysterious meeting. Is that vague enough for Look, what is this? What do you want? Am I supposed to be an undercover agent for you guys, or Interesting choice of phrase.
RACINE: Look, what is this? What do you want? Am I supposed to be an undercover agent for you guys, or Interesting choice of phrase.
LOWENSTEIN: Interesting choice of phrase.
RACINE: How 'bout tonight I ask her? 'Say, did you kill your husband? My friends were just wondering.'
LOWENSTEIN: Hey, that's an idea. Ask her where the glasses are, where she did it. Anything else I'm forgetting, Oscar?
OSCAR: Just one thing. Oh, yeah! Right, right. You'll love this, Ned, this latest development. Maybe you'll be able to work up a little sympathy for us, see why Oscar here has a tendency to get carried away. Tell him, Oscar. This is rich.
LOWENSTEIN: Oh, yeah! Right, right. You'll love this, Ned, this latest development. Maybe you'll be able to work up a little sympathy for us, see why Oscar here has a tendency to get carried away. Tell him, Oscar. This is rich.
OSCAR: This is from the sister-in-law, the Kraft woman. She's been driving me batty lately. She's convinced she ain't gonna be out into the will. It seems that a couple weeks before the murder, Walker's niece stayed up there for a while with your friend Matty. One night she waxes up, goes to see her aunt and catches the lady with some guy. Do you get it? In the act or some fucking thing!
LOWENSTEIN: Do you get it? In the act or some fucking thing!
GRACE: We haven't got all the details yet. Mrs. Kraft is bringing the little girl up here today to tell us her Oh, they're here. I ran into them on the way in. They're waiting Christ. I'm not sure I'm up to dealing with this scene.
LOWENSTEIN: ( to Grace ) Oh, they're here. I ran into them on the way in. They're waiting Christ. I'm not sure I'm up to dealing with this scene.
GRACE: Christ. I'm not sure I'm up to dealing with this scene.
GRACE: ( to Racine ) Listen, you probably don't want to see the Kraft woman right now. She's a little wild. Why don't you slip out the back way here?
RACINE: Are we done here?
GRACE: ( nods, looking at I've got it all here. And, Ned, I'm sorry I had to ask.
RACINE: I'll go out this way. I've had a lot of experience with disgruntled I'll be over to Stella's, if you want to have some lunch.
RACINE: Hello, Mrs. Kraft.
ROZ: Hello, Mr. Racine.
RACINE: How are you making out?
ROZ: We're all right, I guess.
RACINE: You must be Heather.
RACINE: I'm Ned Racine, Heather. I've heard a lot about you. It's nice to meet
HEATHER: Thank you.
RACINE: I'm sorry our town is so hot for your visit.
HEATHER: It sure is.
RACINE: ( smiles, stands )
ROZ: Racine walks away. Heather watches him go. Roz turns to EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY Racine walks down the sidewalk and enters Stella's Coffee INT. STELLA'S COFFEE SHOP - DAY As Racine comes in the front door, Stella is leaning over the counter in a gossipy huddle with a Cop and Glenda, the Meter Maid. When Stella notices Racine, she breaks off suddenly and moves away. The Cop and Glenda see Racine and go back to their food with great deliberateness. Racine takes all this in and settles at the other end of the counter.
STELLA: ( too boisterous ) Hi, Racine. How you doing today?
RACINE: I'm fine, Stella. I'm fine. What's the latest? Any hot news?
STELLA: Nothing much doing. What'll it be?
RACINE: What's the special?
STELLA: Veal outlets.
RACINE: What day'd you cook 'em?
STELLA: They're fresh this month.
LOWENSTEIN: ( to Stella ) The usual, my sweet.
LOWENSTEIN: Are you ready to hear something wild?
RACINE: I don't know. I may have had my share for the day.
LOWENSTEIN: No, this is right up your alley.
LOWENSTEIN: Little Heather comes out onto the back porch, and this dude is out there with her aunt, see? And he's turned away with his pants or shorts or whatever dropped, so he's mooning the little girl, right. And he and your friend are going at something which Heather couldn't quite figure
LOWENSTEIN: Poor little Heather! She's never seen one angry before. But it made quite an impression on her. Yessirree! That's all she can
RACINE: That's it?
LOWENSTEIN: One other thing. She says the guy's hair was greasy. He wore it slicked back. "Like a Cuban," she says. I loved that! Can you imagine poor Heather? She hustled back to bed after getting a gander at that. And listen to why she got up in the first place, this is the capper. She had a nightmare! Christ, can you imagine what kinds of dreams she had the rest of the
RACINE: Don't say that. Don't say you don't have them.
MATTY: I swear to you, I don't. What's wrong with you?
RACINE: They had to be here when you cleaned up that night. Think about it, think hard. They've probably got my prints on them.
MATTY: I must have missed them. I wasn't looking for them. I thought they were on Edmund.
RACINE: So where could they have gone?
MATTY: I don't know. The housekeeper? Where would she have put them? You've been through his things.
RACINE: The housekeeper? Where would she have put them? You've been through his things.
MATTY: She might have taken them.
MATTY: Listen to me. That's why I fired her. After Edmund's death she started acting strange. She was always watching me, listening to my calls.
RACINE: That's crazy. You imagined it. I know, I've been imagining things, too. Plenty.
MATTY: No, Ned, not with her I wasn't. I could tell there was a difference. Maybe she know about us. Maybe she wants something.
RACINE: Don't you think we would have heard from her by now?
MATTY: I don't know what to think. I'm worried. But it's not about the glasses. Or your friends. It's us.
RACINE: I'm sorry.
MATTY: Your first reaction is to accuse me. What's happening to you? I don't know if we can hold on like this.
MATTY: Hardin called today. He said everything should be cleared up by next week. I'll get the money He apologized for the delay.
RACINE: They've been stalling. They're draggin it out, hoping they'd come up with some way to implicate you.
MATTY: But they haven't been able to. Soon it'll be all ours. That's why we've got to hold together, Ned. It won't be long, then we'll get away from here. Out from under all this. All we have is each other. I'd kill myself if I thought this thing would destroy us. I couldn't take it.
LOWENSTEIN: Hi, Ned.
RACINE: What are you doing here?
LOWENSTEIN: I've been looking for you.
RACINE: Yeah. You always run this late?
LOWENSTEIN: Yeah. You always run this late?
RACINE: Nah. I'm going to Miami tomorrow. I'm not gonna have time.
LOWENSTEIN: What's in Miami?
RACINE: I'm closing this real estate deal I've been working on.
LOWENSTEIN: You're some kind of health nut. Matty Walker smokes that same brand. I noticed that.
RACINE: Is this gonna be one of those conversations? Maybe I should have my lawyer present.
LOWENSTEIN: Buddy, your lawyer is present.
LOWENSTEIN: You know, that Edmund Walker was a bad guy. The more I find out about him, the happier I am he's dead. I figure it's a positive thing for the You're not known for being a Mmm. I have my own standards. I try to keep them private. As far as I'm concerned, I don't care who killed him. And I don't care who gets rich because of it. But Oscar, Oscar's not like that. His whole life is based on doing the right thing. He's the only person I know like that. Sometimes it's a real pain in the ass. Even for him.
RACINE: You're not known for being a Mmm. I have my own standards. I try to keep them private. As far as I'm concerned, I don't care who killed him. And I don't care who gets rich because of it. But Oscar, Oscar's not like that. His whole life is based on doing the right thing. He's the only person I know like that. Sometimes it's a real pain in the ass. Even for him.
LOWENSTEIN: Mmm. I have my own standards. I try to keep them private. As far as I'm concerned, I don't care who killed him. And I don't care who gets rich because of it. But Oscar, Oscar's not like that. His whole life is based on doing the right thing. He's the only person I know like that. Sometimes it's a real pain in the ass. Even for him.
LOWENSTEIN: Oscar's unhappy right now. He's in Why is that?
RACINE: Why is that?
LOWENSTEIN: Because he likes you. He likes you even better than I do. That's why he's been busting his butt trying to locate this Mary Ann Simpson. They finally found her place in Miami yesterday, but the woman herself was gone. looked like she left in a hurry. Oscar thought any story she could tell might help you. He thinks you need help.
LOWENSTEIN: Someone's putting you in deep trouble, my friend. From about three thirty to five AM on the night Walker was killed, someone called your hotel room repeatedly. The hotel didn't want to put them through, but whoever was calling convinced them it was an emergency. The phone rang and rang, but you didn't answer.
LOWENSTEIN: Don't say anything. Save it for some Other time. It gets worse. Now someone's trying to give us Edmund's glasses. We don't know who. We don't know what the glasses will tell us. But our negotiations are
LOWENSTEIN: I wish I knew what to tell you, Ned. But I don't have any good ideas.
LOWENSTEIN: I'll see ya.
GLENN: We know each other, don't we? I'm Michael Glenn. With Bashford,
RACINE: Ned Racine.
GLENN: Christ, I've done it again. I'm just meeting some people. Hey, this is silly. You're not still mad about that Gourson business? We had to do it. Costanza practically insisted we sue you. Listen, nobody at our place likes malpractice against other lawyers.
GLENN: Hey, this is silly. You're not still mad about that Gourson business? We had to do it. Costanza practically insisted we sue you. Listen, nobody at our place likes malpractice against other lawyers.
RACINE: Forget it.
GLENN: I tried to make it up to you.
GLENN: Did you ever meet a lady named Matty Walker? You'd remember her. A very hot number.
RACINE: Matty Walker?
GLENN: ( glances at the Yeah. I met her at a party. She said she was going up there and she wanted to know about lawyers. I gave her your name.
RACINE: When was this?
GLENN: ( trying to remember ) I don't know. long time. Maybe
GLENN: Oops, gotta go.
RACINE: Did you tell her about the Gourson Hey, I was trying to get you work.
GLENN: ( a slimy grin ) Hey, I was trying to get you work.
RACINE: Did you tell her about Gourson?
GLENN: Jesus, are you nuts? Maybe I told her how we met. Yeah,
GLENN: Maybe I told her how we met. Yeah,
BEVERLY: Is there something wrong with your Just off the hook. What?
RACINE: Just off the hook. What?
BEVERLY: Teddy Laursen is in County. He's very anxious to talk to you. He sounded bad.
BEVERLY: Hey, are you all right?
TEDDY: I don't know. It's a thing in Lauderdale. Something must've gone wrong, but they're not telling me. I'm a little worried.
RACINE: I'll find out.
TEDDY: No, no. That's not why I called you. In fact, I got me another lawyer.
TEDDY: I think it would be better. You know He's good.
RACINE: ( nods, confused ) He's good.
TEDDY: This broad came to me last week. A real looker. She said you told her how to reach me, I figured you musta, she knew all about it. She said you wanted another one.
TEDDY: Yeah, I was afraid of that. But I'm a slow thinker.
TEDDY: Then I'm glad I told you. Watch your Thanks, Teddy.
RACINE: Thanks, Teddy.
TEDDY: Racine. Don't thank me yet. These guys here, they've been asking me about The Breakers. I haven't told 'em shit. But I don't like the look on their faces.
BEVERLY: ( yells ) Ned. It's Mrs. Walker. Do you want ( filtered throughout ) Hello, Ned. Can we talk?
RACINE: ( he picks up ) ( filtered throughout ) Hello, Ned. Can we talk?
MATTY: ( filtered throughout ) Hello, Ned. Can we talk?
RACINE: Okay. Where are you?
MATTY: I'm in Miami. I've been running around like crazy and I could reach you before I left. Ned, everything's going to be all Tell me.
RACINE: Tell me.
MATTY: I've got the money. I've taken it and sent it somewhere safe. It's all ours now. But that's not the best part.
RACINE: What's the best part?
MATTY: The glasses. I got them back. That is, they should be ours by now. Betty had them. She wanted money. That's why I had to come down here. She made it all very difficult, but I think it worked out.
RACINE: Do you have them?
MATTY: No. She wouldn't do that. She's putting them in the boathouse. In the top drawer of the dresser in the boathouse. They should be there now, if she's kept up her end.
RACINE: I think you'd better get them right away. I don't trust her.
MATTY: I think you'd better get them right away. I don't trust her.
RACINE: In the boathouse.
MATTY: That's right. The top drawer of the dresser. Oh. Ned, we're going to be all right. I'll leave here as soon
MATTY: Are you all right?
RACINE: Good-bye, sweetheart.
MATTY: Good-bye, sweetheart.
GRACE: Teddy, this is Detective Knapp from the Fort Lauderdale Arson Squad. He's brought some very bad news about that fire. Seems there were two people who didn't get out.
GRACE: I know, Teddy. It's not like you. And I'm willing to make that clear to anybody who'll listen. But you're going to have to help me out on this Breakers business.
PINEHAVEN: Please drive safely"
LOWENSTEIN: Stupid. That's always been the Her mind encompasses his.
GRACE: I better go get him.
MATTY: Hello, darling.
RACINE: Hello, Matty.
MATTY: Where's your car?
RACINE: In the back. With yours.
MATTY: Why haven't you turned on the lights?
RACINE: I could see.
MATTY: It's all ours now, Ned. We could leave tonight if we wanted. It's Yes, it is.
RACINE: Yes, it is.
MATTY: ( voice changed ) What's this ?
RACINE: It's Edmund's gun. You remember it, don't you?
MATTY: What is it, Ned? What's happened?
RACINE: I think you know.
MATTY: No. I swear to you, I don't!
RACINE: It's the glasses, Matty.
MATTY: Weren't they there? Didn't she bring I didn't see them.
RACINE: I didn't see them.
MATTY: She promised she'd bring them.
RACINE: Maybe I missed them. The way you missed them that night.
MATTY: Ned, I don't know what you think, but you're wrong. I haven't done anything to hurt you. I love you. You've got to believe me.
RACINE: Keep talking, Matty. Experience shows I can be convinced of anything.
MATTY: I did arrange to meet you. But, Ned, it all changed. You changed it. I fell in love with you. I didn't plan
RACINE: You never quit, do you? You just keep on coming.
MATTY: How can I prove it to you? What can I say?
RACINE: The glasses, Matty. Why don't you go down there and get them?
MATTY: But you said they weren't there.
RACINE: I said I didn't see them.
MATTY: I'll go, Ned. I'll go and look for
MATTY: Ned. no matter what you think, I do love you.
RACINE: No, Matty! Stop! Don't go in! Matty.
NIGHT: Absolute quiet. We move above cell after cell, dark with sleeping convicts. We stop at Racine's cell. It is dark like the rest. Racine is in there alone. We move down close to his sleeping form. He looks thinner.
RACINE: She's alive.
RACINE: But what if that was someone else's body in there? What if it was already there when I got there dead and waiting for me. Maybe her friend. Mary Ann.
GRACE: Her teeth were left, man. We sent them back to Illinois. The identification was positive. That was her, that was Matty Tyler Walker. That was her and she's dead.
RACINE: You're not listening to me. What if she's been using this other girl's name? Since she met Walker three years ago, since she first spotted him and decided to take him. one way or another. Maybe Walker or any of us never knew her real Why would she want to hide her I don't know. Maybe there was something in her past, something so bad she was afraid it would queer it with Walker if he found out that he'd never marry her.
GRACE: Why would she want to hide her I don't know. Maybe there was something in her past, something so bad she was afraid it would queer it with Walker if he found out that he'd never marry her.
RACINE: I don't know. Maybe there was something in her past, something so bad she was afraid it would queer it with Walker if he found out that he'd never marry her.
RACINE: Let's say she's living as the other girl, this girl from her past. Someone whose history she knew and could use any way she wanted. And there's only one person in the world who knows the truth.
RACINE: But when Matty sees a way to get rid of both of them at once. A way to solve all her problems and get clear, with no one looking for her. At the boathouse. You find two bodies, me and this girl. Two killers dead. Case closed.
RACINE: You can't find the money, can you, Oscar? Doesn't that tell you It tells me she moved it and we can't find it. And that don't mean shit. It could be sittin' in any bank in the world waiting for a dead lady to come for it.
GRACE: It tells me she moved it and we can't find it. And that don't mean shit. It could be sittin' in any bank in the world waiting for a dead lady to come for it.
GRACE: Do you hear what you're saying? It's crazy. This Matty would've had to been one quick, smart broad. Oscar, don't you understand? That was her special gift she was Matty was the kind of person who could do what was necessary. Whatever was necessary.
RACINE: Oscar, don't you understand? That was her special gift she was Matty was the kind of person who could do what was necessary. Whatever was necessary.
GRACE: Racine, you got to face something. You killed Edmund Walker, man. And you're going down for it. Two people are dead. And no matter how you want to figure it, you ain't bringin' either of 'em back to life.
MATTY: COMPANION ( O.S. )
MATTY: She turns her face to the sun.
THE END: Writers : Lawrence Kasdan
