FOR EDUCATIONAL: PURPOSES ONLY
PURPOSES ONLY: SCREEN IS BLACK In the darkness we hear dripping water, the echoing approach of two sets of footsteps. There is the sound of a sudden, quick scuffle, a heavy fall of bodies. THREE BOOMING GUNSHOTS. Two from one gun, one from another. So fast and close, they're barely distinguish- able. The sound of the SHOTS ECHOES against concrete walls and dies away. Silence.
FRANK: ANGLE - DOORWAY TO GARAGE A uniformed chauffeur freezes in his tracks. Farmer lowers his weapon and speaks.
FRANK: ( calm, but an order ) Call 911.
KLINGMAN: Your hands ever shake, Frank?
FRANK: Sometimes. It's just adrenaline.
KLINGMAN: . How did you know?
FRANK: I saw him washing the car.
KLINGMAN: I saw him.
FRANK: They don't wash cars on the parking levels. He hands a glass of brandy to Frank, who looks at it.
KLINGMAN: You know, I'd like you to stay on. He passes a small sealed envelope to Frank.
FRANK: I'm not good in permanent positions, my feet go to sleep. The two men smile at each other. They raise their glasses in a joint salutation Klingman drinks. Frank doesn't.
DEVANEY: So, you won't protect Rachel Marron just because she's in show business?
FRANK: I don't do celebrities.
DEVANEY: But the biggest money's in show business people. Frank says nothing. His eyes are closed behind the sun- glasses. Devaney picks up one of the throwing knives. He holds it carefully by the blade and throws it. It misses the post by three feet and clatters against the Frank opens his eyes, sees what's going on and closes his eyes again.
DEVANEY: ( picking up another Do you really do these things?
FRANK: Isn't she the one who collects This is enough to distract Devaney from his knife-throwing.
DEVANEY: ( exasperated ) Farmer, Rachel Marron is one of the most famous people in America. She's won every music award invented. She's got the number one song in the country right now and she'll probably be nominated for an Oscar in her very
FRANK: You mean she doesn't collect dolls?
DEVANEY: ( defeated ) Yes. She collects dolls.
FRANK: I thought I knew who she was. Devaney tries to size up whether Frank is kidding him or not. Frank's face betrays nothing. Devaney gestures with a knife.
DEVANEY: You're probably deadly with these things, aren't you?
FRANK: Show me. Frank doesn't move.
DEVANEY: Show me. Frank doesn't move.
DEVANEY: Why are you resisting this job? $2,000 bucks a week.
FRANK: There are several good men available for that kind of money. Have you talked to Fitzgerald or Racine? Portman?
DEVANEY: Yeah. Portman was interested. He senses an opening and sits down beside Frank for what he takes to be the first serious talk.
DEVANEY: . but we're told you're the best.
FRANK: There's no such thing.
DEVANEY: Farmer, we're talking about a very frightened lady. With a
FRANK: All right. I'll come and I'll look the situation over. If I take it, it's three thousand a week.
DEVANEY: ( whistles ) Okay. You must be very deadly for three grand a week.
FRANK: Devaney's face drops. Frank examines the next knife.
FRANK: ( mumbling ) I know it's something like.
FRANK: Frank raises his hand to throw again, then stops and motions Devaney off to the side.
FRANK: Better not stand right behind me. Devaney smiles weakly. Frank lets the third knife go with one smooth motion. The knife sinks an inch into the center of the post. THUMP. Frank's hand arching again. Throwing the remaining knives. Both knives stick in the post forming a straight vertical line with the first one.
FRANK'S POV: as he looks over the gate, the wall, the heavy vegetation and the rising grounds beyond. ( NOTE: The use of the term FRANK'S POV, is not to be taken simply as a camera direction. Rather, it re- presents a recurring attempt to make the audience see in the special way Frank sees. Frank lives by constant vigilance, heightened awareness. It is his genius and his burden. The audience must be put in the position of looking, searching, scanning with him. ) He has a curious sense of being watched, a kind of prick- ling on the back of his neck. As he looks around, a black Toyota 4X4, parked some way down the road, drives rapidly off too fast to get a clear look. He watches it go. Frank pulls up to the gate and gets out of his car. He grabs a bar of the gate and pulls. The whole gate rattles. Frank gets back in his car and pushes a button on the intercom box at the side of the gate. A MAN'S VOICE CRACKLES out of the BOX. Transmission is terrible.
FRANK: Frank Farmer to see Miss Marron.
FRANK: Alexander Graham Bell to see Miss Have you got an appointment?
FRANK: The atomic number of zinc is 30.
FRANK'S POV: as he moves up the winding drive through heavily land- scaped grounds. Plenty of potential hiding places. The mansion is at the top of the hill. The grounds behind the mansion fall away.
HENRY: Can I help you?
FRANK: Are you the man on the intercom?
HENRY: No. Can I help you?
FRANK: My name is Edison. I have an appointment with Miss Marron.
HENRY: Oh. And that was arranged by.?
FRANK: ( impressed ) Mr. Devaney.
HENRY: Go right ahead, Mr. Edison.
FRANK: What happened to your arm?
HENRY: ( looking at his arm ) A doll.
FRANK: Henry Ford, to see Mr. Devaney.
EMMA: Come in, please.
EMMA: I'll tell you quite honestly, Mr. Ford, I don't know where Mr. Devaney is. Did he say he'd be here?
FRANK: Then he probably is. Let me look. She leads Frank into a large, unused formal parlor. There are dustsheets over the furniture and the walls are being repainted. On a number of TV screens scattered around, Rachel's latest video ( the one we saw in the opening titles ) is continuously playing. The sound of the song itself "I HAVE NOTHING" comes softly from concealed Frank demurs and Emma disappears back through the foyer. Frank watches her go, then moves off into the house in the opposite direction. It's obviously undergoing a major redecoration. Painters, decorators and designers come and go, oblivious to Frank's presence.
EMMA: Then he probably is. Let me look. She leads Frank into a large, unused formal parlor. There are dustsheets over the furniture and the walls are being repainted. On a number of TV screens scattered around, Rachel's latest video ( the one we saw in the opening titles ) is continuously playing. The sound of the song itself "I HAVE NOTHING" comes softly from concealed Frank demurs and Emma disappears back through the foyer. Frank watches her go, then moves off into the house in the opposite direction. It's obviously undergoing a major redecoration. Painters, decorators and designers come and go, oblivious to Frank's presence.
EMMA: Please make yourself at home. Can I get you anything?
FRANK'S POV: Dwarfed by the pool, the only person in sight is seven- year old Fletcher, the little boy from the photograph, dark-haired and fragile. He is crouched at the side of the pool with the remote control unit for a foot-long speedboat which is cutting across the water. A nanny sits, some way off, embroidering. Frank's attention is distracted. A heavier BASS MUSICAL BEAT comes from somewhere nearby in the house, another Rachel Marron number, but this time up-tempo and bouncy. Frank follows the sound.
DEVANEY: RACHEL ( O.S. )
NICKI: It was just great, Rory. But Rachel is already replying to the video director.
TONY: RACHEL ( O.S. )
DRESS DESIGNER: ( showing the costume ) What do you think, Rachel?
DEVANEY: Rachel, Frank Farmer is.
DEVANEY: ( not looking ) It's terrific.
DEVANEY: Rachel, Frank Farmer is here. Devaney nods in Frank's direction. Nicki looks at Frank.
DEVANEY: Frank Farmer. The bodyguard.
DEVANEY: Rachel, raise your butt out of there and meet this man. RACHEL MARRON finally rises from the sofa. It's a bit of
RACHEL: Well, I'm up. Rachel and Frank look across the room at each other. Frank comes forward.
DEVANEY: Frank Farmer, Rachel Marron. Rachel offers her hand and they shake. Rachel looks him up and down.
RACHEL: You don't look like a bodyguard.
FRANK: What did you expect?
RACHEL: I don't know. Tough guy maybe.
FRANK: This is my disguise.
RACHEL: ( smiling ) Well, his timing's good.
DEVANEY: This is Nicki, Rachel's sister and personal secretary.
NICKI: Nice to meet you, Mr. Farmer.
DEVANEY: ( indicating ) . Tony Scibelli.
RACHEL: ( to designer ) The back's still not right.
DEVANEY: . Sy Spector, Rachel's publicist.
RACHEL: Can we get you a drink?
FRANK: Orange juice.
RACHEL: Straight? Nicki. Nicki goes to the bar. Rachel sits and motions for Frank to sit opposite her.
RACHEL: Rory, I'll be with you in a second. Rory gets up, and goes over to his dancers at the big screen video.
RACHEL: Listen, this whole thing is Bill's idea. This sudden obsession with protecting me. Tony has always handled my security and we've done just fine.
RACHEL: I'll be with you in a second. Nicki hands Frank his orange juice. She looks at Frank as she speaks.
NICKI: I think Bill's right, Rachel. It's time you took more precautions. Spector enters the conversation.
SPECTOR: ( one hand covers Nicki, I'm sure Mr. Farmer would tell you the number of nuts writing fan letters jumps every time Rachel is on the cover of a magazine.
DEVANEY: Not like this.
RACHEL: Relax guys, I said I'd do it. You see what I'm dealing with here? I'm willing to go along, as long as we all understand each other. I'm not going to let this alter my life one little bit. Who was this?
ASSISTANT: ( overlapping Devaney ) Oh. That was Clive's office. They called three times.
DEVANEY: Honey, that's not going to be a Rachel runs a very informal household, we're all on a first name basis. Spector has finished up on the phone and jumps in.
SPECTOR: .And I'm sure you'll blend in just fine. You can select whatever alarm systems you want for the house. Some kind of improved security for the gate. What else, Rachel stands and starts to wander over to Rory and the dancers. Frank looks at Devaney. Devaney doesn't like the tone this is taking.
RACHEL: I think I'm safe when I'm here at the house so I guess the main thing will be when I go out. Tony will be able to fill you in on all that. You two will have to work something out. I don't want both of you falling all over me everywhere I go. The most important thing is this I will not allow Fletcher to be affected by this thing.
SPECTOR: ( punching phone ) I was just going to cover that. We'll have to tell the child you have some other function.
RACHEL: I don't want him to think he's in prison. So the house and grounds must not be altered in any way. He shouldn't be aware that you're here. Is that clear? Frank looks at her a long time, glancing up at Devaney Miss Marron.
FRANK: Miss Marron.
RACHEL: There's been a mistake. A misunderstanding. If you'll show me the quickest way out, we'll save each other a lot of trouble. Frank's on his way. Someone brings a silver headpiece on a stand to Rachel. She ignores it, still looking at Frank.
FRANK: There's been a mistake. A misunderstanding. If you'll show me the quickest way out, we'll save each other a lot of trouble. Frank's on his way. Someone brings a silver headpiece on a stand to Rachel. She ignores it, still looking at Frank.
TONY: You can go past the pool.
DEVANEY: Shut up, Tony.
FARMER: Nice meeting you.
DEVANEY: Farmer, will you wait a minute?
SPECTOR: Bill, I don't think we should be begging this guy for his services.
DEVANEY: Sy, I'm handling this. Rachel looks on coolly as Frank slides open the glass door.
DEVANEY: Farmer, will you wait a minute?
DEVANEY: Farmer, will you wait a minute? I should have told you more. I'm sorry but I was afraid she wouldn't go through with it. I thought I'd let the two of you work it out. come to an understanding.
FRANK: We did. Frank starts to walk off. Devaney is grasping at straws.
DEVANEY: She's not a bad person, and whether she knows it or not, she needs you. You've come this far. Would you just wait here for one minute. I want to show you something. Please, Devaney runs back to the house.
FLETCHER: ( continuing to walk ) How are you today?
FRANK: ( continuing to walk ) How are you today?
FLETCHER: How are you today?
FRANK: ( wants to keep walking ) All right. How 'bout yourself?
FLETCHER: Oh, I'm fine. Do you like boats?
FRANK: No. I don't like boats.
FLETCHER: You don't! Why not?
FRANK: Oh, I don't know.
FLETCHER: Sure you do, but you don't want to tell me. Frank considers him, then slips out of his sport coat. He crouches down so that he is eye-level with Fletcher.
FRANK: You're a smart kid. Fletcher nods.
FRANK: I'll tell you. One time I was stuck on a boat with some people for four months.
FLETCHER: A lifeboat?
FRANK: Nope. A big white yacht. Do you know what a yacht is?
FLETCHER: ( thinks about this )
FRANK: ( standing to leave ) Well, nobody's perfect.
FLETCHER: You're the bodyguard, aren't you? Frank is surprised.
FRANK: What do you know about it?
FLETCHER: I've got ears.
FRANK: I'll remember that. Devaney trots into the pool area, out of breath. He is holding a bulging manila file. As he sees Fletcher, he holds the file casually at his side. Frank sees Fletcher looking at the file.
DEVANEY: How are you, Fletch? I'm glad you waited. Let's go over here.
FRANK: ( to Fletcher ) Nice meeting you.
DEVANEY: This is just in the last six months.
FRANK: ( looks at the pile ) Have you ever tried having these professionally assessed?
SPECTOR: Devaney says you were in the Secret Frank nods.
SPECTOR: Ever guard the main man?
FRANK: I was two years with Carter and four years with Reagan. Frank sets another letter in the center pile. He stops, smiling at it.
FRANK: This is a little old lady in Akron. She's written to everybody I've ever worked for. He continues to turn until something stops him. Several letters are paper-clipped together. They are the pasted- up type we saw being assembled on the desk top.
SPECTOR: Reagan got shot. His chatter is beginning to annoy Frank.
FRANK: Not on my shift. Spector emits a gratuitous laugh, acknowledges the joke.
SPECTOR: That's good. Frank goes back to his letters. He taps the stack in the center of the table.
FRANK: At first glance, these don't bother me. But keep them. You never know. He separates one letter from the others.
FRANK: This could be something. Devaney searches Frank's face.
DEVANEY: You think it could be the same guy? The one who rigged the doll?
FRANK: I don't know. Did you tell Miss Marron about it? Does she know about the doll? Devaney and Spector exchange looks. This is evidently a sore point between them.
SPECTOR: We said there'd been some electrical problem while she was on stage. Short circuit. Look, she doesn't need that kind of worry right now. It would upset her.
FRANK: What about the police?
SPECTOR: There was no reason for the police. No one got hurt.
FRANK: What about the chauffeur?
SPECTOR: It was nothing. It was just our people there. Frank turns and watches Fletcher by the pool. Devaney's eyes are still on Frank's face.
DEVANEY: Sy, I think we should show him the room.
FRANK: Is this her bedroom?
SPECTOR: No. She sleeps in a room next to Fletcher's down the hall. Sy had this done for a magazine layout,
DEVANEY: No. She sleeps in a room next to Fletcher's down the hall. Sy had this done for a magazine layout,
SPECTOR: 'Superstars in their Boudoirs.'
FRANK: Rachel never liked it.
DEVANEY: Rachel never liked it.
SPECTOR: She didn't have to like it. Devaney gently lays the cut-out letter on the bed.
DEVANEY: We found the letter here.
FRANK: Somebody was in here?
DEVANEY: Somebody broke in and . masturbated on the bed.
FRANK: And she doesn't know about this Devaney shakes his head.
SPECTOR: Are you kidding? This would really freak her out.
DEVANEY: What do you think?
FRANK: Someone penetrates the house, gets upstairs and jerks off on the bed . I'd say that qualifies as a What kind of problem?
DEVANEY: What kind of problem?
SPECTOR: ( agitated ) Of fuck, we don't need this now.
FRANK: This house is wide open.
SPECTOR: Excuse me?
FRANK: I said this house is wide open
DEVANEY: ( does a quick read Frank, I totally respect what you're telling me. Tell me how you want to work and I'll accommodate you.
FRANK: Look, I can't protect her. I won't be responsible for her safety if she doesn't know what's going on.
DEVANEY: I'll talk to her, I'll make her understand. I can do that.
SPECTOR: No. I'll talk to her. Spector exits the room in a huff.
DEVANEY: .She won't give you any static, Frank, you've got my word on that. Frank is still focused on Fletcher.
FRANK: Sure she will.
DEVANEY: So what job's perfect? You're a bodyguard, aren't you? Slowly, Frank faces him.
FRANK: ( quietly )
FRANK: Devaney, if you ever lie to me again, I'll take you apart.
HENRY: Why'd you say your name was I wanted to see how hard it was to get in.
FRANK: I wanted to see how hard it was to get in.
HENRY: And it wasn't, was it? Henry unconsciously flexes his fingers, easing the muscles in his hands. Frank notices and pulls out a small tube of ointment from a pouch he's unpacking. He hands it to Henry.
FRANK: Put this on your arm. It'll help the ache. Henry takes it but is noncommittal.
FRANK: I'll bet you can fill up a whole day just washing the cars and driving Rachel Marron around town.
HENRY: That's my job.
FRANK: We're adding to your duties.
HENRY: You're my new assistant. Frank removes three boxes of cartridges from the suitcase and puts them in the back of a dresser drawer as Henry Says who?
FRANK: You're my new assistant. Frank removes three boxes of cartridges from the suitcase and puts them in the back of a dresser drawer as Henry Says who?
HENRY: Says who?
FRANK: Henry, I've spent a lot of time guarding people all over the world
HENRY: The cocky black chauffeur. Henry considers this for a moment and smiles. OVER scenes 26-28, we hear the VOICE of CNN's MARTIN GROVE from "Showbiz Today."
FRANK: The cocky black chauffeur. Henry considers this for a moment and smiles. OVER scenes 26-28, we hear the VOICE of CNN's MARTIN GROVE from "Showbiz Today."
FLETCHER'S POV: Frank and Henry are down there conferring about the appears beside Fletcher, looks down there too, then leads her son purposefully away. Fletcher isn't happy about it.
RACHEL: appears beside Fletcher, looks down there too, then leads her son purposefully away. Fletcher isn't happy about it.
FRANK: Unusual tactic for a guard dog, but effective. Nicki smiles, gesturing him in.
NICKI: You can look around if you like. Frank indicates it won't be necessary. Nicki stops working out.
FRANK: I'm sorry to disturb you.
NICKI: That's all right. It's an excuse to rest. It's my private place. I'm the only one who works out around here. Frank glances at photos on one wall. Most are of Nicki from years ago; some show her performing with a band.
NICKI: My own ego wall. No platinum Frank spots a picture of two girls.
FRANK: You and Rachel?
NICKI: When I was a kid, I put a little band together. We played high school dances, stuff like that. Then Rachel joined the act. As you can imagine, she was quite a little entertainer. Even then, she had a way of stopping the show. So I kind of quit. Professionally, You never went back?
FRANK: You never went back?
NICKI: It was pretty obvious who the star in our family was. Frank looks back at the picture. Nicki smiles.
HENRY: That depends on what you call a I don't want anyone on the street to be able to look at the cars and know who owns them. Henry leans in a doorway and hits a master switch. The three doors of the garage start to rise in sequence.
FRANK: I don't want anyone on the street to be able to look at the cars and know who owns them. Henry leans in a doorway and hits a master switch. The three doors of the garage start to rise in sequence.
HENRY: I don't think there's anything here you'd call a 'hint.' One at a time the doors go up to reveal: First garage the Cadillac limousine we've seen earlier. License: RACHEL 2 Second garage a gray Mercedes. License: RACHEL 3
FRANK: Get new plates for those two.
FLETCHER'S POV: Workmen put up a seven-foot cyclone fence. Across the road, a black Toyota 4 X 4 is stopped. It slowly pulls away. We can't see inside it.
RACHEL: Fletcher! C'mon. Back in here! As she speaks, some workmen test the remote control on a window shutter. It descends in front of Rachel's face. She is not amused. Fletcher passes Frank on his way to join Rachel. He mutters almost under his breath.
FLETCHER: I think he's got a black 4 X 4. Could be a Chevy. More like a Toyota. Frank stares at Fletcher, then looks back to the street.
FRANK'S FACE: illuminated by the screen.
MINELLA'S FACE: is illuminated above the projector.
MINELLA: This is the one you think is tied to the doll?
COURT: I sort of lost track of you after How's the private stuff?
FRANK: How's the private stuff?
COURT: How's the private stuff?
FRANK: ( noncommittal ) Big money, I bet? Huh?
COURT: Big money, I bet? Huh? Frank shrugs. Court looks at Minella knowingly.
COURT: Shit. I knew it. It is big money. Fuck! You need an assistant? I'm ready to get out. I've lost my tolerance for assholic behavior. You should see the jerk we're covering now.
COURT: 'Hellfire Henry' Kent.
MINELLA: Shh! Somebody wants to pop him.
COURT: Which isn't exactly surprising, considering what the shithead's
MINELLA: Yeah! Do everyone a favor. As you know, we're nonpolitical these days. The three men laugh easily together. They have reached the lobby doors.
COURT: ( to Frank ) We'll put this stuff through Washington. Behavioral Sciences should have something in a few days.
FRANK: ( a pause ) Why am I getting all this She's a big star. Important people care about her.
COURT: Why am I getting all this She's a big star. Important people care about her.
FRANK: Why am I getting all this She's a big star. Important people care about her.
MINELLA: She's a big star. Important people care about her.
COURT: Politics and show business are practically the same these days. Got any crowd photos we can use?
FRANK: I'm trying to keep her away from Good luck.
COURT: Good luck.
WOMAN: ( an afterthought; Goodbye, Nicki. So great to see you.
RACHEL: I'm surprised you didn't plug them.
TONY: ( impatiently ) Hey, let's go.
FRANK: ( across Tony ) O.K. Henry, let's go.
TONY: Let me set you straight on a few things. For starters, I love this lady. What I do for her I do for
TONY: I do things the way she likes. Her happiness is everything to me. Frank speaks while concentrating on the mirror.
FRANK: No problem. I'd like to know how you handle things, Tony.
TONY: I handle things fine, Frank. You watch me and you'll learn something.
FRANK: ( to Henry ) Turn left.
HENRY: Is that him? Frank shakes his head, he's not sure. Tony reacts.
TONY: Hey, what's going on?
FRANK: FRANK'S POV - TOYOTA IN REARVIEW MIRROR ANGLE - FRANK
FRANK: Slow down, very slow.
HENRY: You want me to do a one-eighty?
FRANK: No, just slow down. The car slows.
SPECTOR: Why are we stopping? Are we here? Behind them, THROUGH the rear window, the 4 X 4 can be seen. Sensing something, it makes a sudden TIRE- SCREECHING left turn, disappearing behind them.
FRANK: Stop here. Take them to the Frank jumps out and jumps a hedge, racing toward the lawn and work area.
TONY: What's with him?
FRANK: Keep this loose. Fletcher comes to take a look too. He peers up at Frank, Tell me about the car?
FLETCHER: Tell me about the car?
FRANK: Toyota. Black.
FLETCHER: Four wheel drive? Late model? Frank nods. Fletcher looks pleased.
FRANK: One snag though. Fletcher's face falls.
FLETCHER: 360,000 of them in Los Angeles. I checked. Nice work, though.
FRANK: 360,000 of them in Los Angeles. I checked. Nice work, though.
FLETCHER: ( shrugging ) Well, nobody's perfect, Frank. Are they? ( gesturing to the
RACHEL: Shut up you assholes!
RACHEL: ( clutching the You! You! Out! Out! Now! Out of here! Get out!
OLD LOCKSMITH: Yes, ma'am. Thank you. I'm a real fan of yours, Miss Marron. Still angry, but disarmed, Rachel makes a face.
RACHEL: Then you can take your tools with you. She turns to the window, in what she imagines is Frank's general direction, and, like a little girl, suddenly sticks out her tongue.
HENRY: Is that Devaney?
FLETCHER: ( to Frank ) She's got him by the short ones, doesn't she, Frank? Yeah, she makes him nervous.
FRANK: Yeah, she makes him nervous. They watch as Devaney SCREECHES to a STOP, gets out and hurries inside.
RACHEL: I want him gone.
DEVANEY: What is it now?
NICKI: He told Rachel no Sunday brunch at Charlie's.
DEVANEY: No Sunday brunch. That's why you called me up here?
RACHEL: That is not it! It's my money and my life and I want him out of here.
DEVANEY: Where is he? Nicki indicates through the glass door. Devaney walks over to it.
NICKI: On the patio.
RACHEL: He's through messing with my life.
DEVANEY: Rachel, I'm getting goddamn sick of running up here every time he steps on your toes. Farmer! Would you come in here a minute? Devaney walks back toward Rachel.
RACHEL: Did you know he was nuts?
SPECTOR: Do you know who couldn't get past the gates yesterday?
RACHEL: Robin Leach, that's who. Rory sniggers into the back of Rachel's hair, fighting off a laugh. Rachel has difficulty keeping a straight face, too. Spector glares at them as Frank enters from the sliding door.
SPECTOR: Robin Leach, that's who. Rory sniggers into the back of Rachel's hair, fighting off a laugh. Rachel has difficulty keeping a straight face, too. Spector glares at them as Frank enters from the sliding door.
SPECTOR: You think that's funny? The man talks to 20 million people and he can't even get in here.
FRANK: Did he have an appointment? Devaney turns to him.
DEVANEY: Farmer, what is this about brunch at Charlie's? Rachel's been going there every Sunday for the last five years.
FRANK: I don't want her doing anything she's always done.
RACHEL: ( mimicking him ) 'I don't want her doing anything she's always done.' The guy's a So are the guys he's protecting you from.
DEVANEY: So are the guys he's protecting you from.
RACHEL: Excuse me if I don't faint.
NICKI: Think of Fletcher Rachel turns ON the BLENDER, drowning out Nicki's voice. Frank looks at Rachel coolly. She stares at him petulantly, then turns OFF the BLENDER.
RACHEL: Do you know he's got the phones Oh Jesus, Bill.
SPECTOR: Oh Jesus, Bill.
RACHEL: Maybe he gets off listening to my calls. All that heavy breathing.
DEVANEY: ( interrupting ) What do you want from my life?
RACHEL: I want some peace around here.
SPECTOR: That's right. Devaney looks at Frank imploringly.
FRANK: We're almost done.
RACHEL: And I want to be able to eat brunch with my friends.
FRANK: Go on Tuesday this week. Spector looks at him as though he were a Martian.
SPECTOR: ( stretching it out ) Tuesday morning brunch. Where did you find this guy?
HENRY: ( looking at the I wish Rachel didn't keep coming here. It makes me nervous.
TONY: Me too. 'Cept I'm not nervous 'cos I got you with me.
RACHEL: Louise, you've got too much great Take it all, darlin'. Frank leans casually against a wall, not watching Rachel, but watching the shop, watching the street outside. Rachel finds something she likes.
OWNER: ( from the back of Take it all, darlin'.
RACHEL: Wooo! Let me try this on. She flicks a glance to Frank; he's not looking at her. She pulls back the curtain of the makeshift changing booth, then stops dramatically.
RACHEL: ( to Frank, indicating Farmer, do you want to come in here with me? Just to be safe?
RACHEL: You probably won't believe this, but I have a reputation for being a bitch. Frank says nothing. He gazes outside through the store- front window and sees Henry and Tony horsing around next to the limo. A few small boys stand around the car. One of them is climbing onto the hood.
RACHEL: I didn't used to be. But you get known for being a certain way a way people think you are and pretty soon you get like that. Can't help it. Frank smiles knowingly. Rachel notices.
RACHEL: You don't think so? You're such an expert on famous people?
FRANK: I've seen a few.
RACHEL: And you disagree?
FRANK: ( very flat ) You can be as you choose to be. It's an act of discipline sometimes, but it can be done.
RACHEL: That why you never stay with one of your clients? They too undisciplined for you? Or is it you're afraid you'll start to care about them?
FRANK: ( without interest ) That's right.
RACHEL: Can't you answer straight just once? Why don't you talk to me? I'm not such a bad lady.
FRANK: You're too clever for me. I can't keep up. Frank continues to search the shop and street with his gaze. Rachel steps closer to him.
RACHEL: Look at me, Farmer! Frank turns and looks at her.
RACHEL: You don't approve of me, do you?
FRANK: Disapproval's a luxury I can't afford. Gets in the way.
RACHEL: Don't like emotions getting to you, huh? Never mix business with That's right. It's a stand-off. After a moment, Rachel motions to an outfit on a rack just behind him.
FRANK: That's right. It's a stand-off. After a moment, Rachel motions to an outfit on a rack just behind him.
RACHEL: Grab that would you? Frank takes a beat. Looks out the window.
FRANK: I'm here to keep you alive. not to help you shop. Fuming, Rachel sizes things up, then grabs it herself, whipping the curtain shut behind her. A smile plays across Frank's face.
ANGLE FRANK: Frank sits alone in his room, lit by the glow of the TV, dressed in a business-style blue suit and tie. He's watching Rachel's videos. Scattered around the video player are a collection of other Rachel Marron CD's, tapes and videos. Frank has been noting down lyrics on the yellow legal pad on his lap. Some of the phrases are circled. As he watches, we see a subtle change in his expression. It is as if he really were looking at Rachel for the first time, here, watching her sing. For a second, she seems to be singing to him alone, passionate and vulnerable. He opens a small box and removes a tiny enamelled Russian Orthodox-type cross. He fastens the clasp, checking that it holds, then looks back to the screen.
FRANK: ( to Henry ) I thought it was dinner.
FRANK: ( to Spector ) Are we going somewhere else?
SPECTOR: The Mayan, Frank.
FRANK: What's the Mayan? Spector starts to climb into the limo.
SPECTOR: It's a club, Frank. Come on, Henry, let's go.
FRANK: Spector, you've got to tell me about these things.
SPECTOR: I just did. He disappears inside the limo. Rachel tugs at Frank's lapels, looks him up and down, brushing something off his shoulder. Frank's annoyed.
RACHEL: Nice suit, Frank. Rachel is about to get in.
FRANK: He removes something from his pocket, a small enameled Rachel looks at it, both flattered and confused.
FRANK: I want you to keep this. Rachel looks at it, both flattered and confused.
RACHEL: For me? It's beautiful.
FRANK: It's fitted with a radio transmitter. When you close the clasp, it sends a signal. If there's ever a problem and we're separated, just press it and I'll know you need me. Rachel doesn't know how to respond. She's stuck for words. Spector pokes his head out impatiently.
SPECTOR: Okay, she knows how it works, let's get going. Rachel manages a quick smile to Frank as she gets in the back. Frank gets in the front beside Tony. The limo pulls out.
SPECTOR: It wasn't me. The car turns a corner and there it is, The Mayan only fifty yards ahead, a mob of fans spilling out of the club, off the sidewalk and into the street.
TONY: Fuckin' a. Spector whoops with uncontrolled delight from the back of the limo. Frank stares ahead in disbelief. The NOISE of the CROWD can be heard as they pull up front.
CROWD: Rachel! Rachel! We want Rachel! Others join in as the mob presses forward. The instant she exits the car, her expression goes public a wide, show-biz smile. Sandwiched between Spector and Devaney, with Tony in front and Frank at the rear, Rachel makes her entrance. A young man breaks the barrier moving toward Rachel. Frank grabs him by one of his belt loops, gracefully guides him all the way across and slips him under the opposite cordon into the arms of a security guard.
JOURNALIST: . and this is my exclusive?
SPECTOR: I swear I thought she'd talk to you. Maybe later. What can I Frank is checked out by a strange-looking women in Vampyra Drag.
DEVANEY: He sent another one. Rachel immediately picks up on this.
RACHEL: What do you mean 'another one'? Frank quickly shoots a look at Spector.
FRANK: They didn't tell you.
RACHEL: Rachel. same kind of thing, threats, oddball stuff.
DEVANEY: Rachel. same kind of thing, threats, oddball stuff.
SPECTOR: ( starting to panic ) Someone was in my house?
DEVANEY: ( starting to panic ) Someone was in my house?
RACHEL: ( starting to panic ) Someone was in my house?
SPECTOR: house is like Fort Knox now. Right, Frank?
FRANK: house is like Fort Knox now. Right, Frank?
RACHEL: house is like Fort Knox now. Right, Frank?
SPECTOR: house is like Fort Knox now. Right, Frank?
RACHEL: house is like Fort Knox now. Right, Frank?
SPECTOR: house is like Fort Knox now. Right, Frank?
FRANK: Right now!
SPECTOR: down. Calm down.
RACHEL: down. Calm down.
SPECTOR: down. Calm down.
DEVANEY: Let's just see how she is. How do you feel, honey? Someone comes through the door with some flowers. Frank eases them out and gently closes the door.
SPECTOR: Let's just see how she is. How do you feel, honey? Someone comes through the door with some flowers. Frank eases them out and gently closes the door.
FRANK: I can't protect her out there.
RACHEL: Do you think he's out there? Devaney can't answer. She turns to Frank.
RACHEL: He's here, isn't he?
FRANK: He might be.
SPECTOR: We don't know that. Frank, we don't know that. Rachel is enraged.
RACHEL: But you know he was in my house. oh my God.
DEVANEY: Let's go home, Sy. We'll have to make an announcement.
SPECTOR: Fine, you make it, they'll tear the fucking place apart.
DEVANEY: Excuse me. hello. I've got an announcement to make. I'm sorry but. due to circumstances Voices shout. "Where's Rachel?". a groan begins. A chorus of boos fills the room. He raises his hands.
RACHEL: Rachel. don't do it. It's not worth it.
FRANK: Rachel. don't do it. It's not worth it.
RACHEL: ( cutting him off ) No fucking freak is gonna chase me off stage.
DEVANEY: I'm afraid that. A great gush of applause from the audience. Devaney's befuddled. He doesn't see Rachel walking up behind him.
DEVANEY: Rachel won't be able. Rachel stands beside him beaming. She bows. Claps back to her fans. Devaney retreats. Rachel gestures in his Bill Devaney, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Bill. Hey, everyone. Hello! Isn't Billy Thomas the greatest. He's asked me to sing a song. I hope you don't mind. The crowd roars its approval. Frank nervously scans the room. Rachel smiles and moves along the stage. MUSIC starts in the b.g. Masking obvious fear, she starts to sing. As she takes one hand from the microphone, her fingers tremble. She clasps it again to hide her anxiety.
RACHEL: Bill Devaney, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Bill. Hey, everyone. Hello! Isn't Billy Thomas the greatest. He's asked me to sing a song. I hope you don't mind. The crowd roars its approval. Frank nervously scans the room. Rachel smiles and moves along the stage. MUSIC starts in the b.g. Masking obvious fear, she starts to sing. As she takes one hand from the microphone, her fingers tremble. She clasps it again to hide her anxiety.
SPECTOR: Are we having a communications problem Spector's presence is a distraction. Frank steps to one side for a better view of Rachel. Spector moves too.
FRANK: Spector's presence is a distraction. Frank steps to one side for a better view of Rachel. Spector moves too.
SPECTOR: Apparently, I didn't make it clear to you how things go around here.
FRANK: You told me you were going to tell her. And you didn't.
SPECTOR: I didn't think she could handle it.
FRANK: But she handled it fine. Frank continues to peer past Spector's shoulder, his vigilance undiminished. Soothed and nurtured by the obvious admiration of her audience, Rachel's fear is beginning to vanish. The song is taking over. Spector changes tack, becoming confidential, "man-to-man."
SPECTOR: Look. Frank, I know what you're saying. I know you want to do what's best for her. I understand that. You have a job to do here. But you have to understand that Rachel has a job to do too. And that's what she's doing - out there. She's working, Frank. That's what she does and that's where she does it. She's hot right now. This is the time for her. If she doesn't get out there, she's dead. Forget about crazy death threats, if she doesn't sing, she's dead anyway. Look, handled properly, this thing could be good for a million dollars' worth of free publicity. Frank grabs him by the collar and slams him up against a wall of curtain ropes.
FRANK: One word.
SPECTOR: It could clinch her the nomination.
FRANK: One word in print about any of Spector nods, half-gasping. Frank tightens his grip. Frank's attention is drawn by a renewed roar from the Trouble with you is you don't understand the sympathy vote.
SPECTOR: Trouble with you is you don't understand the sympathy vote.
RACHEL: ( turning back to You like that? Would like to hear another? Billy?
RACHEL: ( on the prowl ) I think my feet are trying to tell me something. wanna see a new video?
RACHEL: ( dancing, talking ) I want to dance.
RACHEL'S POV: Looking offstage at Frank. His frustration is almost intoxicating to her. She struts over the lip of the stage. A man leaps up from audience to join her. Frank starts forward. Rachel gestures to him to hold back, waving him off.
SPECTOR: Look at her, fucking great.
FRANK'S POV: He spots a fire extinguisher in the wings.
FRANK: Tony, not there.
TONY: I'll take care of this.
TONY: Just follow me.
TONY: Make way here. Outta the way!
SPECTOR: Hey! What the fuck. Farmer! Farmer! Come back here.
HENRY: Never done that before.
FRANK: It's been a long night.
RACHEL: Aren't you going to ask me why I behave like that?
FRANK: I know why.
FRANK: I don't want to talk about this Frank has been talking to the uniformed guard in the gate house and now begins walking up the drive toward the man- The grounds are quiet, beautiful, misty. We see him from behind some foliage, as if he's being covertly observed, stalked. A twig snaps and he turns sharply. It's Rachel. She's dressed in a soft jumpsuit and starts jogging out from behind the bushes towards him.
RACHEL: Hey! Gotcha, didn't I?
FRANK: You're probably wondering what I'm You didn't know I jogged, did you? Frank shakes his head.
RACHEL: You're probably wondering what I'm You didn't know I jogged, did you? Frank shakes his head.
RACHEL: What's the matter? 'Fraid I'll get picked off in my snazzy running No. I'm afraid I'll have to jog with you. They both smile.
FRANK: No. I'm afraid I'll have to jog with you. They both smile.
RACHEL: Great. I guess I can't do it. Rachel stops pumping, gasps for air, and for one moment, rests a hand on Frank's arm to support herself. She removes it quickly.
RACHEL: Will you walk with me a little? Frank nods and they cut off across the grounds.
RACHEL: ( hard for her ) I know this is kinda late, but thank you. I'm really glad you're ( she looks at him ) I'm going to try to cooperate.
FRANK: That would be good. They walk in silence for few moments. When Rachel finally speaks, she sounds genuinely unsure of herself, nervous. It's very appealing. And if it's an act, she's a terrific actress.
RACHEL: Farmer. I have this problem. This minor little problem. You see, I'd like to go out for an evening. Just me and a guy. You . like a 'date.' But I can't go out on a date because you have to be with me every minute. I mean, what if he invited me up to his place afterwards? Are you going to come, too? So the only thing I can figure is for you to take me out. So. that's what I was wondering . you know. What do you think? But only if you want to. Frank is bemused.
RACHEL: Only if you want to. I'm not so God, this is embarrassing. I'm gonna run up ahead there. You She runs up the hill to the pool area, which is now above them. He walks up after her.
RACHEL: Tell her she'll have to wait, babe. I'm getting fixed up here.
DAY: The SOUND is DEAFENING. A wet car comes out of the tunnel of machinery. In the distance, glimpsed through the spinning brushes, Henry talks to a couple of workers as he waits for the limo to be cleaned. Hands appear with a large chamois cloth, moving easily and fast over the hood and windshield. A black in his early twenties is finishing the exterior of the car. A second pair of hands appear. White hands in rubber gloves. They open the driver's door and push a vacuum suction hose inside. The hands switch ON the car RADIO, loud. Loud enough to hear over the din outside the car. The hose works its way over the front seats.
RACHEL: Well, he didn't look like he wanted to die to me.
FRANK: There's a big difference between wanting to die and having no fear of death. They walk down the sidewalk.
RACHEL: And because he had no fear of death, he was invincible?
FRANK: What do you think?
RACHEL: Well, he sure creamed 'em all in the end.
FRANK: Yeah, it was a good movie. They walk off down the sidewalk.
RACHEL: How many times have you seen it?
FRANK: 86 INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT 86
RACHEL: Your kinda place? Frank nods.
FRANK: Your kinda music? As she smiles:
RACHEL: Your kinda music? As she smiles:
FRANK: You figure no one can get by you If someone is willing to swap his life for a kill, nothing can stop Great. What do I need you for?
RACHEL: You figure no one can get by you If someone is willing to swap his life for a kill, nothing can stop Great. What do I need you for?
FRANK: If someone is willing to swap his life for a kill, nothing can stop Great. What do I need you for?
RACHEL: Great. What do I need you for?
FRANK: He might get me instead.
RACHEL: And you're ready to die for me?
FRANK: That's my job. Rachel looks at him.
RACHEL: And you'd do it? Why?
FRANK: I can't sing.
RACHEL: Maybe there's some glory in saving a president or something, but just You mean like you? It's a matter
FRANK: You mean like you? It's a matter
RACHEL: I don't trust discipline. At the crucial moment I'd cop out.
FRANK: That happens.
RACHEL: But not with you, Fierce Frank.
FRANK: It happens.
RACHEL: Have you ever liked anybody?
FRANK: What do you mean?
RACHEL: Like me a girl.
FRANK: A long time ago.
RACHEL: What happened? Do you mind if I Do you mind if I don't answer?
FRANK: Do you mind if I don't answer?
RACHEL: I don't want to pry.
RACHEL: ( begins to laugh, She didn't die did she? You weren't like. protecting her and she got killed?
RACHEL: Oh, my god! That's it, isn't it?
FRANK: Nobody's perfect. Rachel is taken aback.
RACHEL: Oh Frank, I'm sorry. Frank laughs.
FRANK: No. Nice try though. It was less dramatic than that. She didn't love me anymore. Can you imagine such a thing? Frank puts a smiling spin on this last; it's pretty charming. Rachel looks at him.
RACHEL: No, not really. A SONG comes on the JUKEBOX 'WHAT BECOMES OF THE BROKEN HEARTED.' Frank smiles as Rachel begins to sing.
RACHEL: So, is this a full service date, Frank's wary.
RACHEL: I'm just asking you to dance.
RACHEL: You like this?
FRANK: A beat, then Rachel bursts out laughing.
FRANK: ( reddening ) ( trying to compose herself ) I'm sorry. It's just that. It's so depressing.
RACHEL: ( trying to compose I'm sorry. It's just that. It's so depressing.
FRANK: ( grinning ) It is, isn't it.
RACHEL: Don't worry, I'll protect you. They drift back into the music, Rachel singing, Frank Frank's car is parked in the driveway. A light goes on in a basement window.
RACHEL: ( almost to herself ) It's very quiet here.
RACHEL: ( reading ) West Virginia University Football. God, look at you.
RACHEL: What'd you play?
FRANK: Were you tough?
RACHEL: Were you tough?
FRANK: No. Fast. Rachel puts down her drink and moves toward a samurai sword that is mounted in its scabbard on the wall. She looks at it, peering closely.
RACHEL: You some kind of a samurai, too? Frank smiles.
RACHEL: They said you were in the Secret Service. What made you get out? Frank moves away and sits on a sofa against the wall.
FRANK: Rachel looks around at Frank's modest home.
RACHEL: I can see your tastes are She looks at Frank and then back at the sword. She reaches out to touch it.
RACHEL: May I? Frank nods. Rachel takes it off its mount carefully, unhooks the scabbard and begins to slide it off.
FRANK: Watch yourself. Rachel slides the scabbard off. The naked blade is breathtaking. Rachel holds the sword out before her. She walks toward Frank, then stops and looks over the blade at him.
RACHEL: You're a hard one to figure, Frank He stares at her. She steps closer, so the blade is only about a foot from his face.
RACHEL: It seems to me a bodyguard must know little peace. Frank stands up so that the point of the sword is only about an inch from his chest. He reaches out over the blade to Rachel's neck and unties the silk scarf she is wearing there. One hand draws the scarf away. The other hand lingers for a moment on her neck, then lifts away.
FRANK: Watch this. He has raised the scarf over his head, in the space between them. With two hands he spreads it out and then lets it go. Slowly, billowing, the scarf floats down over the blade and is cut in two. These two pieces float slowly to the floor. Frank takes Rachel's wrist and moves the sword away to the side. They are both holding it as Rachel presses her body against Frank's and they begin to kiss.
RACHEL: I've never been this safe before. Frank smiles.
RACHEL: No one could get by you.
FRANK: Right now it might not be so hard. Rachel laughs, kisses him and buries her head down into his shoulder. Frank stares across the bed at the samurai sword lying on the floor. Some of Rachel's clothing is draped in a heap across it. The torn pieces of her scarf lie nearby. HOLD ON Frank's look.
RACHEL: What? What is it? What are you Frank keeps moving, looking for his shoes.
RACHEL: Rachel, I don't want to get confused about what I'm doing I'm not confused. Frank finds his shoes.
FRANK: Rachel, I don't want to get confused about what I'm doing I'm not confused. Frank finds his shoes.
RACHEL: I'm not confused. Frank finds his shoes.
FRANK: You pay me to protect you, that's what I do. Rachel sits up.
RACHEL: What? Have I done something No, nothing.
FRANK: No, nothing.
RACHEL: Then what is it? She lifts the sheet seductively and looks over the top of it.
RACHEL: Do you want me to beg?
FRANK: No, I want you to do without. She stops.
RACHEL: What's going on, Frank?
FRANK: I want to keep it straight in my head what job I'm doing.
RACHEL: And what is that exactly? Making me feel like shit?
FRANK: No, I'm sorry. This is my fault.
RACHEL: Don't apologize for godsake. Just tell me what I did. I'm a big You didn't do anything. It was me. I involved myself with my client. Rachel picks up on the word.
FRANK: You didn't do anything. It was me. I involved myself with my client. Rachel picks up on the word.
RACHEL: Your "client"?
FRANK: I made a mistake.
RACHEL: What mistake?. You don't find me attractive anymore.
FRANK: Christ! I've told you why. I can't protect you like this.
RACHEL: And what? That's it for me?
FRANK: I don't believe it. He automatically checks the gun as he slips it into the You can live with that or you can fire me.
RACHEL: I don't believe it. He automatically checks the gun as he slips it into the You can live with that or you can fire me.
FRANK: You can live with that or you can fire me.
RACHEL: But I can't fuck you. Frank turns and looks at her. This is hard for him, too.
RACHEL: I don't believe this. I'm asking you?. Let me tell She stops suddenly and, with a roar of combined frus- tration, humiliation and rage, she lurches from the bed in search of her clothes. Frank shuts his eyes in morti- fication and pain.
FLETCHER: ( watching him ) She's real mad at you, isn't she?
FLETCHER: She told me she doesn't understand why you're so shitty to her.
FRANK: I've spent a lot of time learning not to react to things like other people do. It's my job. But it doesn't always work, Fletcher. it doesn't always work.
FLETCHER: I don't think I understand.
FRANK: ( looks at him ) I'm an old man compared to you, pal, and I don't understand either. And I'm starting to get the feeling I never will.
NICKI: ( looking at him ) Thought you'd like to know. Everyone said she was a sure thing. Of course, you know all about that.
NICKI: I'm sorry. That was out of line. It's none of my business. Here's today's question marks for you. She turns and walks briskly back to the house. Frank watches her go, then looks slowly down to the pile. From across the pool, Fletcher watches silently, then pushes his boat out into the deep water.
SPECTOR: Put together a list of your expenses. Your total billing. Let me have it in one hour and I'll see that a check is cut.
FRANK: Don't you ever say what's on your Spector cannot believe he's being so addressed especially in front the staff. The assistants stop in their tracks and look.
SPECTOR: ( almost shouts ) What's on my mind is that you're fired, Frank. She missed all her interviews yesterday because of your little date. Do you realize she stood up Barbara Walters? First you fuck up her career.
SPECTOR: . and now you're fucking with her head.
FRANK: That's between us.
SPECTOR: You think so? You forget who signs your check. You don't understand the role I play around here.
FRANK: No. I understand. Spector stiffens, then decides not to take this one on.
SPECTOR: Get your shit together and be out of here by noon.
DEVANEY: Frank stays. Spector looks round, sees that Devaney and Rachel have been listening. Rachel is silent. With a curt nod of his head, Spector gestures to the assistants to leave the room. Devaney weighs in.
DEVANEY: With this high a profile, Rachel needs protection now more than ever. If he goes, you can forget She's signed the fucking contract, Bill. You want me to read it to Rachel is watching them both.
SPECTOR: She's signed the fucking contract, Bill. You want me to read it to Rachel is watching them both.
DEVANEY: Fuck the contract. If he goes, she's not singing a note. It's too dangerous.
SPECTOR: Oh. 'Fuck the contract.' Great. Why don't you let Rachel speak for herself? I think she has some say in this.
RACHEL: ( flatly ) Frank stays.
SPECTOR: Well, I guess this is democracy in Rachel nods. Spector, turning to take the call, flashes her a "little boy" look.
SPECTOR: I gave in. That's not easy for me. Don't I get a hug? Rachel is stone-faced. Spector covers by picking up the Yeah?. Sure, put him on. Ben how are you?. uh huh. Frank and Rachel look at each other in silence.
SPECTOR: ( into phone ) Yeah?. Sure, put him on. Ben how are you?. uh huh.
SPECTOR: .The Ambassador? What the hell are you trying to pull, Ben? Rachel always gets the Presidential. I don't care what you thought. Devaney leans to Frank as Spector's conversation continues in the b.g.
DEVANEY: Do you know the Fontainebleau Hotel in Miami Beach? Frank nods.
DEVANEY: How does the Ambassador Suite compare to the Presidential for Frank thinks only for a moment.
FRANK: It's on the twentieth floor in the south wing. There's a service elevator right there. Mainly ocean windows. Should be no . I'm aware of that, Ben, but let me just remind you people that you invited us. Frank turns toward the door.
SPECTOR: ( into phone ) . I'm aware of that, Ben, but let me just remind you people that you invited us.
RACHEL: ( to Frank ) Hang around, Farmer. We might need your vaunted expertise.
RACHEL: ( sweetly ) Hello, Ben honey.
RACHEL: ( across him ) Ben. I hear you've got me in the annex next to the kitchen.
FRANK: Frank kneels and inspects the fixture that anchors it to the cement balcony: the cement crumbles around it, a weld joint is broken on the side. THURINGER, the hotel security chief, joins Frank on the balcony. Frank shakes the railing.
THURINGER: God damn. I'll get someone right on it.
FRANK: Okay. Let's go.
THURINGER: It's okay, they've been cleared. He shows his clipboard to Frank. As the two men walk along the corridor, the guest elevator opens and a twelve-year-old boy in a bathing suit ( MARK KATZ ) steps out, accompanied by his nanny. In the background, hotel security men are checking fire-extinguishers and closets.
THURINGER: ( to Frank ) The Katzes of St. Louis. Very prominent. Come every year. An elderly couple and three grandchildren. A nurse and a maid.
THURINGER: Hi, Mark.
MARK: Frank smiles and nods to the nanny.
THURINGER: ( to Frank ) Theirs is the only suite on the
THURINGER: As you asked, the rooms below have been kept vacant.
FRANK: What a silly job this is.
SPECTOR: O.K. Rachel. It's showtime! They're rolling. Let's go.
FRANK: Is this really necessary?
SPECTOR: Yes. It is.
RACHEL: Quit bitching, Farmer. This is the part you do get paid for. Rachel sweeps out the door. The camera crew hurries to keep up with her.
RACHEL: Oh my God. Look what they're wearing. Mother, hide your eyes. Heads turn to look.
RACHEL: I couldn't wear that suit. Honey, you're naked. Of course, if I had a body like that. There is a murmur of recognition from some of the guests. She pauses to shake a hand, and now all the guests throughout the pool area are aware that Rachel Marron is among them. People stand on chairs, scramble for pens and paper, run
SPECTOR: Great, babe. They got what they needed. Let's get back inside. Frank increases his pace to keep by Rachel's side, gently easing a path for her. Schiller scurries behind in Frank's wake. Rachel turns suddenly as a tall good-looking lifeguard appears in the throng. She eyes him appreciatively.
RACHEL: ( to lifeguard ) You look like a man of good taste to me. Come to my party tonight. ( to Schiller ) Ben, make sure this boy gets to my party.
RACHEL: ( over her shoulder ) Thank you. Thank you. Come tonight and give till it hurts.
RACHEL: ( to Spector ) I'm beginning to wonder about your judgement, Sy. Why do I have to keep paying my dues if I've already arrived?
SPECTOR: ( very fast ) Kick me, beat me. whatever makes you feel good. But let's not pretend you don't like it. We're too close for that. Whipping people into a frenzy is why you got into it in the first place.
SPECTOR: And it's nothing to be ashamed of, either, not for a second. It's a gift. and only a handful are given it. Many call but few are Don't fool with the blessing, Rachel. The magic is sustained through its use.
RACHEL: Now you're going to tell me about magic? Give it a rest will ya.
SPECTOR: I'm done. Not another word. . I know you like to be reminded Rachel looks away. It's true. He's good at his job.
PORTMAN: Hello, Farmer.
FRANK: Buy you a drink?
PORTMAN: Buy you a drink?
FRANK: Orange juice. It's been awhile. You on the job?
PORTMAN: ( nods ) Technically I'm off duty, but the Governor may show up here later, so I thought I'd give it a light ( smiles ) Someone else is covering him right How old is she?
FRANK: How old is she?
PORTMAN: Maybe eighteen. You working? Rachel makes her entrance, and poses self-mocking on the landing above the crowd, accepting applause. She has succeeded in under-dressing everyone in the room. She is a star. Frank nods in her direction. that's his No kidding? I'd call that a step up from the President. Probably sings better too.
PORTMAN: ( impressed ) No kidding? I'd call that a step up from the President. Probably sings better too.
RACHEL: Thank you. Thank you. You're so right.
RACHEL: I want everyone to have a good time and drink as much of Ben Schiller's liquor as you like. Rachel descends into the crowd, laughing and blowing Frank's look says if you only knew the half of it.
PORTMAN: Frank's look says if you only knew the half of it.
PORTMAN: I heard you had to take someone out in New York.
PORTMAN: I lost track of you after the Reagan thing.
FRANK: It wasn't your fault, Farmer. You weren't even there.
PORTMAN: It wasn't your fault, Farmer. You weren't even there.
PORTMAN: I got a call a couple of months ago. That guy you were covering in New York. He said you'd recommended me.
FRANK: A little.
PORTMAN: A little.
FRANK: ( smiles ) I never doubted your skills.
PORTMAN: ( laughs, good- No. Only my qualifications for the priesthood. You were always clear about that. Anyway, I appreciate it. I had to turn it down but I appreciate it.
RACHEL: That's orange juice!
RACHEL: Who are you?
PORTMAN: Greg Portman.
RACHEL: I take it you've met my bodyguard?
PORTMAN: We used to work together.
RACHEL: ( suddenly more Ah. Well, well, well. And what do you do now?
PORTMAN: Same thing as Farmer.
RACHEL: ( looking between Two samurai, eh?
RACHEL: ( to Portman ) Are you working now?
PORTMAN: Not right now.
RACHEL: ( she takes his arm ) 'cause I'm the only one in the room who needs protection.
FRANK'S POV: Rachel leans into Portman; heads together, they whisper intimately. Rachel laughs, then for a brief moment, turns her head to look directly at Frank. Her look is petulant, defiant. Portman does not see this.
FRANK: What happened!
PORTMAN: Somebody tripped. It's okay.
RACHEL: ( looking at Portman ) Thank God I had a bodyguard here.
RACHEL'S POV: Staring down twenty stories of distance between her and the pool area. Way, way below her, her champagne GLASS hits the tile with a MUFFLED SHATTERING sound.
RACHEL: It's a long way down, Frank. You saved my life. Frank eyes the newly-welded anchor fixture. It has Rachel takes Portman by the arm. The front of her dress is stained with champagne.
RACHEL: Maybe someone will keep an eye on me while I change. She leads Portman past Frank and up the stairs toward her bedroom. Frank and Portman lock eyes. Portman shrugs; he feels badly for Frank.
FRANK: Why don't you go back there and keep watching? Frank looks at Rachel's doorway, sipping his juice.
FRANK: ( softly ) Go to sleep.
RACHEL: I'm not doing this.
PORTMAN: ( still holding her ) I think you are.
RACHEL: I said I was grateful. Thank you and good night. She looks to the door that leads back to the party. The SOUNDS of CELEBRATION CONTINUE outside. She starts to cross to the door.
RACHEL: ( cool ) Please go now.
RACHEL: Mr. Portman was just leaving us, Portman hesitates, then smiles at Rachel and Tony and, with a quick peck on Rachel's cheek, slips past them back to the party. Rachel briefly scans the party crowd over Tony's shoulder but she doesn't see Frank. The door closes, leaving her alone in the room again. She reaches for a bottle of Scotch and raises it to her mouth, drinking straight from the bottle.
RACHEL: ( nasty ) What the hell are you looking at? ( pause ) You probably never had a heavy night in your whole, goddamn disciplined life.
RACHEL: You know, Farmer, you're a self- righteous son-of-a-bitch. Don't laugh at me, goddamit! And don't you dare judge me.
RACHEL: Don't laugh at me, goddamit! And don't you dare judge me.
FRANK: Give me a break, will ya? I didn't tell you to fuck everybody in the hotel!
FRANK: Yeah, well, don't take too long, Hey, Frank. It's good money, isn't it?
DAY: The elevator door opens and Frank steps out. He walks toward the entrance to the suite and is immediately alarmed by what he sees: there is no uniformed guard by the front door. He unlocks the door and goes inside.
FRANK: Where is she? Where's Tony?
DEVANEY: I don't know. I thought you were with her.
FRANK: ( into phone ) Thuringer, this is Farmer. Where's your man on the door to the suite? ( listens ) Well get someone up here.
FRANK: He doesn't know. They look at each other, worried. Frank walks out onto the balcony, looks round and down, comes back in. He heads for the front door.
DEVANEY: Where are you going?
RACHEL: Hello, Devaney.
DEVANEY: Rachel, where the hell have you Tony comes back, a smile playing across his lips. Frank watches near the entrance.
RACHEL: Tony and I went over to Bal Harbour. Did a little shopping. Tony comes back, a smile playing across his lips. Frank watches near the entrance.
DEVANEY: We were worried. You know you're not supposed to do Frank and Rachel look at each other.
RACHEL: Farmer, you work here! Do you understand that? You work for me.
DEVANEY: Frank turns and heads for the door. Devaney looks at him anxiously.
DEVANEY: Farmer, where are you going?
FRANK: I'm gonna check the route. As He opens the front door. A uniformed guard is standing outside. Frank goes out and closes the door.
RACHEL: Did Fletcher call? Devaney, staring after Frank, shakes his head "no."
FRANK: Gomez! Louis Gomez!
FRANK: What are you doing?
ENORMOUS CUBAN: Is none of you fuckin' business.
FRANK: Move it.
ENORMOUS CUBAN: Shove it up you ass, motherfucker.
CLEANING WOMAN: Don't hurt my husband, mister. He not up to nothing. Frank lets the Cuban down gently and stands up. Dis- gusted with himself. Breathing hard, he leans back against the wall. The Cleaning Woman falls to her knees and hugs her husband protectively.
FRANK: I'm sorry. Frank steps away, rubs a hand through his hair, tries to collect himself. He's standing amidst dumpsters and discarded food boxes. He looks up and sees a marquee.
RACHEL: No response.
RACHEL: Baby, is that you? It's mommy, Guess again, whore! Fuck you and fuck Miami. I'm coming for you. I know where you are and I'm coming for you.
FRANK: I'm through. I'll get you back to L.A. and that's it. The guy with Fletcher can cover you till you get a replacement.
DEVANEY: She got another call, while you were downstairs and she answered it herself. It was him, Frank. Same I don't care.
FRANK: ( moving toward I don't care.
DEVANEY: Farmer, it really shook her up. She thought it was going to be Fletcher calling her from L.A. I think she'll be reasonable now.
FRANK: ( across him ) Save it, Devaney. The people who hire me don't have to be convinced to save their own lives.
FRANK: Call me when she's ready to go Frank goes out on the balcony and slides the door closed behind him.
DEVANEY: Frank goes out on the balcony and slides the door closed behind him.
RACHEL: Farmer. Nothing that's happened between us matters. I understand now. You're going to have to believe me, because I'm not going to beg. She takes a long drag on her cigarette.
RACHEL: It wasn't what he said. it was the way he said it. he was so. Her voice cracks. She stops and tries to compose herself.
RACHEL: I need you. I'm afraid. and I hate it. I hate my fear. Please protect me. Protect Fletcher. If anything happened to him. Frank looks at her. Tears are destroying her elaborate stage makeup. She wipes them away with her hand.
FRANK: I can't protect you like this. It's impossible. The odds are on his side.
RACHEL: I'll do whatever you say. This is the first time Frank has ever heard Rachel say that. He studies her, then looks out at the ocean.
FRANK: I want to take you away for a while. Rachel nods.
FRANK: Somewhere people don't know about. She nods again, agreeing.
FRANK: No Spector or Devaney or Tony. He looks at her, reading her face for any hesitation. There is none.
FRANK: If you cross me up this time, I'll kill you myself. Rachel smiles, weakly but with obvious relief.
DAY: A large, old, two-story house sits at the top of a slight rise, surrounded on three sides by thick, rolling woods. Sloping gently down from the house to the lake fifty yards away is a broad expanse of lawn. Snow lies on the ground and in the trees. At the edge of the lake, a dock and boathouse. An entrance road cuts out of the trees. A little TERRIER skitters to the edge of the drive
FRANK: Lake's a little low.
HERB: Fill up soon enough when she thaws. They all in trouble?
FRANK: Just one.
RACHEL: That's going to protect us?
FRANK: He's a trained noisemaker.
RACHEL: I don't like big dogs. They don't know who they're eating.
FRANK: I don't like big dogs. They don't know who they're eating.
HERB: Katherine had this place organized just the way she wanted it. Frank's momma. There's the COUGH and SPUTTER of an outboard MOTOR from outside. Rachel looks from the kitchen window and sees Fletcher and Frank in the small skiff by the dock. Fletcher tugs again on the starter cord. At the third tug he tumbles backwards onto the seat.
RACHEL: Fletcher doesn't swim well.
HERB: I guess he'd better stay in the boat then. Frank tells me you're a singer.
RACHEL: That's right.
HERB: I'm afraid we're a little out of touch here. I'm sorry. Rachel waves this off.
HERB: You must be very successful to need Frank. Rachel smiles and looks out of the window.
RACHEL: It's so quiet here.
HERB: Frank came back and stayed six months after the Reagan thing. Rachel's questioning look encourages Herb.
HERB: Frank wasn't there the day he was shot. He never got over that. We buried Katherine that day. Rachel looks out again at Frank and Fletcher in the boat.
FRANK: I don't want anyone going out in it until you've checked it over first. Okay? Every time. Henry nods.
HENRY: Every time.
FRANK: Every time. In the distance, Rachel and Fletcher have just reached the house where Nicki scoops up Fletcher and spins him round and round in a circle. She hugs him close and kisses his hair. After a few moments, Fletcher squirms free and runs to catch up with Rachel.
FRANK: ( inclining his head Portman sometimes had trouble remembering what his job was. Supper's ready.
HERB: . And I never hit him. Ever. To this day. That's true, isn't it? That's very unusual for my people. So what happens? When he's ten years old, he complains about it? Can you believe that?
FRANK: Oh, for Chrissake! I'm going to tell her about the time you stripped in court. Frank gets up smiling and takes some dishes into the kitchen.
HERB: ( to Frank ) I don't care. I'm proud of that. ( to Rachel ) Anyway, he's ten years old and he's just started playing tackle football. He comes to me and tells me he's afraid of getting hit, right? And he thinks it's because I never hit him. 'Why don't you ever hit me?' he says to me!
FRANK: ( back over his If you're lucky, maybe he'll tell you about my first jockstrap.
HERB: His mother was the same way. Rachel smiles at him, thinking, then looks through at Frank in the kitchen, still peering out of the windows. Nicki watches Rachel.
HERB: Come on, son, you can run but you can't hide. Herb pulls up a chair and smiles as Frank appears from the kitchen, a bowl of popcorn in his hand. Frank takes a place across from his dad by the fire. The others gather round.
HERB: Your move. Frank studies the board. Rachel lowers her head into a cupped hand, fascinated.
RACHEL: How long has this game been going Frank picks up a knight, thinks, sets it back down.
FRANK: Three years. Nicki takes the bowl of popcorn and squats down with it beside Fletcher. Fletcher peers intently at the board as he chews on a handful.
HERB: He had me on the run there that first year. Frank picks up his rook, scratches his forehead with it. He turns to Fletcher.
FRANK: What do you think? Fletcher finishes a mouthful of popcorn, wipes his mouth.
FLETCHER: Knight to king-four.
FRANK: City kid. Herb pats his leg, gesturing to Fletcher to take a place on his lap.
HERB: Come over here, Fletcher, sit by Fletcher goes over and joins him.
RACHEL: Well, that's it for me, I'm going to bed. She rises. Frank follows her up the stairs. Nicki watches them go.
FRANK: Good night, Rachel. Rachel accepts this. She smiles in return and touches him on the arm, very tenderly.
RACHEL: Good night, Frank. Rachel turns, goes to her room and closes the door.
NICKI: ( softly ) You're very thorough.
NICKI: What's happening between you and Rachel? Frank glances at her.
NICKI: Come on. One minute she's got magnetic hands, the next she hates you. I can't figure out what it is now.
FRANK: You follow all her moves this It's a living.
NICKI: ( smiling ) It's a living.
FRANK: No, it isn't. He moves away into the next room. She hesitates a moment, then follows.
NICKI: You think my life is pretty sickly, don't you?
FRANK: You must. I do. Frank steps into a tight, dark, little window alcove, checks the windows.
NICKI: You must. I do. Frank steps into a tight, dark, little window alcove, checks the windows.
FRANK: Why don't you change it?
NICKI: Is it that easy? Frank turns from the window to find Nicki blocking his exit. She moves close to him and kisses him, her hands on his shoulders. The kiss ends and they look at each other.
FRANK: You're a lovely woman.
NICKI: But you don't want me. Frank's look affirms it. Nicki is embarrassed, angry.
NICKI: I'm surprised. Thorough fellow like you. Why stop at one sister when you can fuck them both?
FRANK: I make my mistakes.
NICKI: But you didn't say no to the boss. She starts to turn away from him, but his hands are on her now, holding her close, refusing to let her turn away. Their faces are very close. It is tight and near here.
FRANK: ( with force ) No, don't go away, Nicki. Don't leave me with that. Tell me about it. Tell me how long you've been second. Tell me how she has a child and you don't. Tell me something. But don't turn away and try to stick it on me.
NICKI: I don't need this from you.
FRANK: Maybe I need it. I'm fed up with people telling me they have no control over their lives. If you hate your life so much, turn it
NICKI: It's not so simple.
FRANK: Yes it is. You can walk out that fucking door anytime you want. I'll unlock it for you. Nicki looks up into his face. Tears start in her eyes.
NICKI: Let me go. He releases her, looks at her.
FRANK: Okay. It's not my business. He moves away, OUT OF FRAME. We HOLD ON Nicki, a long Bright sun. Frank and his father walk along the lake shoreline, stooping here and there to finger animal prints in the snow and mud.
FRANK: Raccoon. deer.? Herb nods. Their attention is drawn to soft singing up by the house.
HERB: I've never heard church music in the middle of the week before.
FRANK: Where's Fletcher?
HENRY: ( shouting ) Frank! I haven't.
FRANK: Fletcher! Fletcher!
IN BOAT: Fletcher, intent on his piloting, neither hears nor sees Frank running down the lawn behind him. The boat is approaching the end of the dock.
DOCK: Frank finally makes it to the dock and continues to sprint after the boat. His weight rattles the boards as he runs.
IN BOAT: Fletcher passes the end of the dock and gives the throttle a little twist.
DOCK: Frank reaches the end of the dock at a full run and dives directly at the rear of the moving boat. Frank's body flies out over the boat. He knocks Fletcher out of his seat and into the water on the other side of the skiff.
RACHEL: ( screams ) No! He can't swim!
IN WATER: Fletcher begins to cry. Frank paddles with him toward the dock. The empty boat swerves, then continues out toward the center of the lake.
DOCK: and Herb are running toward it. Rachel is livid, hysterical. Henry peers out at the boat, which continues to bounce innocently across the water, defining a broad curve.
RACHEL: Fletcher, baby. Are you all right? Baby.
HERB: He's all right.
RACHEL: What are you doing? You out of your mind? You're crazy! You're all right, baby. You could have drowned him!
FRANK: I'm sorry. I got careless.
HENRY: Frank, I'm sorry. I should have.
HERB: It's okay, Henry. Herb puts his hand on Fletcher's head.
HERB: You all right now, son? Fletcher nods, his crying ends raggedly. Frank begins to stand up.
HENRY: How do we get the boat back? Out in the center of the lake, the BOAT BLOWS UP. Every- one on the dock jumps. Nicki screams. Frank sits down again. He shakes his head. On an impulse, he stretches out his hand, palm downward. It's trembling slightly.
162F: Frank slides out from under the van. The hood is up. Henry stands nearby. Frank goes to the driver's seat.
FRANK: ( to Henry ) Back off.
HERB: Henry turns and motions to Herb to stay away.
HERB: Someone's cut the phone lines. It could be anywhere between here and Both the cars are dead. And I can't see how it was done. Frank and Herb exchange a look.
FRANK: Both the cars are dead. And I can't see how it was done. Frank and Herb exchange a look.
FRANK: Who could know we're here? This place has nothing to do with her.
HERB: Maybe it has to do with you. Frank looks at him.
HERB: We can't walk out of here at night with them. Frank shakes his head.
FRANK: We'll button down tonight and walk out at first light.
NICKI: ( crying ) I was an idiot last night.
NICKI: What do you think about today?
FRANK: ( gently ) I think this is no maniac. He knows what he's doing. You're right. He does.
NICKI: You're right. He does.
FRANK: Tell me about it. She doesn't reply.
FRANK: Who is it, Nicki?
NICKI: He almost got Fletcher today.
FRANK: How do we stop him?
NICKI: .my darling Fletcher.
FRANK: Who is it?
NICKI: I don't know. I don't know. Frank goes to her, treats her gently, like a doctor.
FRANK: You can call him off.
NICKI: ( shaking her head ) He doesn't even know who hired him. He doesn't know who I am and I don't know who he is.
FRANK: How'd you do it? She seems on the edge of hysteria. Frank takes her face in his hands, strokes her hair, brings her back from the .I went to a bar in East L.A. I asked around. I talked to a .Armando. He arranged it. That's all I know.
FRANK: .I went to a bar in East L.A. I asked around. I talked to a .Armando. He arranged it. That's all I know.
NICKI: .I went to a bar in East L.A. I asked around. I talked to a .Armando. He arranged it. That's all I know.
FRANK: ( vague ) .Armando. He arranged it. That's all I know.
NICKI: ( vague ) .Armando. He arranged it. That's all I know.
FRANK: Is it all paid for?
NICKI: ( nods ) . and then some. Till it's done.
FRANK: He keeps going until he kills her? Nicki nods again, lowering her face into her hands.
FRANK: What's the name of the bar?
NICKI: I'm not sure. I was very stoned.
FRANK: How 'bout the letters?
NICKI: ( desperately ) No, no. You don't understand. The letters came first. I don't know who's sending them. but they're reading my mind. Those were my thoughts. I hate her. It made me think I could do it. But I could never hurt Fletcher. ( begging him ) You've got to stop it!
FRANK: We will. You and me. Tomorrow we're going back to L.A. We're going to find the bar, we're going to find Armando. He starts to rise. She stops him.
NICKI: Don't you even want to know why?
FRANK: You told me. She has everything. Frank stands up and begins to move across the room. Nicki puts her face in her hands and is silent for one moment. Suddenly, Frank freezes, listening.
NICKI: What if we can't Frank motions her into silence. We strain to hear what Frank hears. Silently, Frank goes to the door, crouch ing. He listens. There again is a DISTANT GROWL from the DOG upstairs. Frank lifts his gun from the table, turns to Nicki.
FRANK: Stay here. Don't move. Nicki's face shows true terror. Frank is out the door.
HERB: It's me! Rachel's voice comes from her room.
RACHEL: 172A INT. FIRST FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT 172A
FRANK: ( to Herb ) Stay with Rachel!
FRANK: ( yelling ) We're okay!
FRANK: Stay with Rachel! The DOG continues to BARK upstairs. Frank sees a slight movement outside and window to his right. A split-second moment of decision. He heads off rapidly down the hall, away from the open door.
RACHEL: What's happening? Where's Nicki?
HERB: Be quiet!
FRANK: What do you mean?
FRANK: What? Where?
MINELLA: Here, last night. You should see his locker, Frank. The guy's obsessed with Rachel Marron.
FRANK: You're sure it's him?
MINELLA: Forensics say it's 100 percent positive I.D. And he's got a black Toyota 4 x 4. Ray's with him now.
MINELLA'S POV: Sitting in the observation room at a table talking to Ray Court is Dan. He looks frightened and confused.
FRANK: Well, whoever you got down there wasn't here last night. This was a professional.
FRANK: How long can you keep him?
FLETCHER: You okay, Frank? Frank acknowledges Fletcher's small presence standing to the side of the big chair. He doesn't look at him Yeah, Fletcher, I'm okay. How 'bout you?
FRANK: Yeah, Fletcher, I'm okay. How 'bout you?
FLETCHER: I couldn't sleep. It was so scary, just thinking about it. He looks at Frank.
FLETCHER: Do you feel scared, Frank?
FRANK: Yeah, Fletcher, I do. Frank puts his hand gently on Fletcher's head, but he does not look at him.
FRANK: Everybody's afraid of something, Flethcer. That's how we know we care about something, when we're afraid we'll lose it.
FLETCHER: What are you afraid of?
FRANK: I think you should try to go back to sleep now, pal.
FLETCHER: Tell me, Frank, please. Is it the man who killed Nicki? Are you afraid of him? Finally, Frank turns and looks at Fletcher. Frank is pretty far gone. He shakes his head "no." He realizes that that kind of fear had never occurred to him, and recognizing that fact sets him back into his thoughts.
FLETCHER: Then what? What are you afraid Frank doesn't have the will to resist anymore. He lets his hand drop away from Fletcher.
FRANK: I'm afraid. of not being there. Fletcher stares at him, uncomprehending.
FRANK: It's late. Do you want me to take you back to your room? Fletcher shakes his head "no," just barely. Then he Frank, silhouetted, moves toward the stairway to the main level. There is light up there.
RACHEL: ( hysterical ) You, you, you. You brought this pain into my house. Now you're here! Where were you then? Why didn't you save her? It was your job to protect me and she died doing it. It was me they were after. And you let them kill her! ( she gasps for air ) She never did anything to anyone.
RACHEL: She never hurt anyone. She was You saw her. She never wished anyone any harm. Did she? Did Frank looks at her, shakes his head "no." Rachel puts her head in her hands and is silent for a few moments; her crying slows.
RACHEL: ( finally, quietly ) She never hurt a soul. ( long pause ) . I didn't love her well enough. I didn't take care of her. ( a beat ) . She gave me only love.
RACHEL: I guess you've heard what's Frank nods.
RACHEL: Mind if I sit down? Frank shakes his head. They sit side by side for awhile, both lost in thought. Rachel seems very calm.
RACHEL: It isn't over yet, is it? Frank shakes his head.
FRANK: He knows he still hasn't got you.
RACHEL: So he'll come again?
FRANK: It's possible.
RACHEL: The Oscars?
FRANK: Rachel takes this philosophically. She tugs at the grass, thinking.
RACHEL: When I was back in Squirrel Hill, I started betting my friends fifty bucks each that someday I'd win an Oscar. You can understand how important it is that they see me up there if I win. She looks at him and smiles.
RACHEL: If everyone of those pikers comes through, it could add up to a lot of money.
FRANK: I think it's very dangerous.
RACHEL: I know. But I can't stay up here on my hill forever. They are silent for awhile. Rachel lies back on the grass, stares at the sky.
RACHEL: I didn't get to this place in my life by doing the smart thing every time. How 'bout you, Frank Farmer? Out there on the edge. did you ever do something that didn't make too much sense, except maybe inside you? In your stomach somewhere? Something that wasn't smart? I'll bet you have plenty. I'll bet you do. Nobody gets really good without it. And you're good. I know that. She sits up beside him.
RACHEL: I don't know why all this has happened to me. . but I do know that none of it's your fault. I hope you can hear me, because this is how I say I'm sorry. Frank accepts.
RACHEL: ( relieved ) So. I'm going to go see if I win an Oscar. And I won't worry about it at all. Because I've got you to protect me.
FRANK: That's right. He looks at her a long time, then takes her in his arms. He kisses her and lays her down. His body moves over hers. Like a bodyguard, protecting her from the night.
DEVANEY: We'll go straight back to the Green Room. Right, Frank? Frank nods.
DEVANEY: Got that, Tony?
FRANK: Tony knows what he's doing. Tony looks at Frank, surprised and not a little pleased with the unexpected support.
RACHEL: I wish you boys would relax a little. Nothing bad's gonna happen out there, alright? Unless I lose the fucking award. She looks around at the men, all are tense.
RACHEL: Jesus, what a crew. Rachel leans forward and flips down the mirror on the panel in front of her and checks her appearance. The limo moves up.
RACHEL: Screw it. I'm through worrying. When your number's up, it's up. Right, Farmer? The limo is almost at the red carpet. Frank slips out the front door of the moving limo.
FRANK'S POV: as he surveys the busy scene. A microphoned M.C. peers into Rachel's limo and walks toward it.
FRANK'S POV: as his glance darts around: high into the bleachers, ahead in the distance, to the door, to the side at photographers nodding to the massed security men with their walkie-talkies. Rachel's smile is convincing, lovely, professional. Spector, Devaney and Tony look strained. As they enter, a WIDE SHOT from across the street shows their limo pulling ahead as the next car pulls up. The CAMERA TRACKS SIDEWAYS to reveal the rear fender of a Toyota 4X4 parked in the foreground.
SKIP: Hello, Rachel. I need to get you straight on your responsibilities.
RACHEL: Sure, Skip. Skip takes a typewritten sheet from a sheaf in his hand and gives it to Rachel. He consults a clipboard as he speaks. There, laid out minute by minute, is the order of the evening's events. Each one has a precise time printed beside it, including those that involve Rachel.
SKIP: Now, it's Best Sound, then another song, then you. At precisely ( looks at his clipboard ) 8:07, you'll be presenting with Clive Healy. Those are your lines. The prompter's straight ahead and we pray working perfectly. Rachel nods.
RACHEL: Fine, you'll be a big shot someday, Skip.
CLIVE: I understand it's my great honor to escort you onstage.
RACHEL: That's right, Clive. And I don't like it one bit that you look skinnier than me.
PATRICIA: . And the award for Best Achievement in Sound goes to Kay Colvin and Mychal Smith for Hot And Cold. Thank you so much. I want to thank our producers, Karen Golden and Ed Gorsuch, as well our sound crew Richard Goodman and Blair Forward. I'm too excited but they're the real winners tonight. Thank you!
KAY: Thank you so much. I want to thank our producers, Karen Golden and Ed Gorsuch, as well our sound crew Richard Goodman and Blair Forward. I'm too excited but they're the real winners tonight. Thank you!
MICHAEL: This is wonderful. This is like, the happiest moment of my life. I'd like to thank our wonderful sound crew for all the evenings and weekends they sacrificed, the incredible wizards down at Distant Thunder Sound Studios, Roger and Greg for hiring us and my family for being so patient. We did it! Thank you!
SKIP: Rachel. One more song, then you.
FRANK: I'm going to have a look around. I'll come back for her. Stay
FRANK: Portman. What are you doing here?
PORTMAN: I'm on the job.
FRANK: Portman points at a nearby TV monitor. On screen, Reardon is introducing the next song.
PORTMAN: Portman points at a nearby TV monitor. On screen, Reardon is introducing the next song.
PORTMAN: Back to work. I'll probably see you at the Governor's Ball.
FRANK'S FACE: suddenly wary. No rational cause. Something in the air.
RACHEL: I want that broad run out of town.
FRANK: Tony, you there?
TONY: ( O.S. ) Yeah, Frank.
FRANK: Tony, I've got a feeling this is the night. I think he's gonna go for her in front of all the cameras. The kind of thing only a lunatic would do. That's how he wants it to look. Except he isn't a lunatic. He's very clever. I need you to help me.
TONY: ( O.S. ) I'm with you, Frank. ( to Frank ) You can't use that thing back here. The breakthrough's killing our radio mikes. We'll have to disconnect you.
TECHNICIAN: ( to Frank ) You can't use that thing back here. The breakthrough's killing our radio mikes. We'll have to disconnect you.
195A: Tony fiddles with his earpiece.
TONY: Frank?. Frank?
RACHEL: ( spooked ) What's wrong?
SKIP: Rachel. Clive. Let's go, okay? Clive Healy comes over. Rachel must tear her eyes away from Frank. Tony floats up behind them. Skip regards him with irritation and turns to Frank.
SKIP: ( indicating Tony ) Really. Must we have everyone? We have our own men at the door.
FRANK: Tony stays. Skip looks at Rachel for a response.
RACHEL: Yes! I want him. Skip shrugs. Clive takes Rachel's arm.
CLIVE: Come, Rachel, let us brighten the Rachel forces a smile, but her eyes follow Frank as he starts to lead the way out of the Green Room. On an impulse, she reaches for something from the makeup table and presses it into her hand. It's the Russian Orthodox cross. She clutches it like a talisman and follows Frank. Tony brings up the rear.
HER BODY: is tense on Clive's arm. Clive pats her arm soothingly.
CLIVE: Try to relax, Rachel. I know you must be very excited. Rachel, you'll go in there and Clive, you over there. You'll meet on the landing.
SKIP: ( pointing ) Rachel, you'll go in there and Clive, you over there. You'll meet on the landing.
SKIP: Watch your step going down. Someone spilled some water.
CLIVE: ( reading from the Well, Rachel, I know that you only came tonight to present this award and you'll want to leave as soon as we're done.
CLIVE: And I know that no matter what anyone thinks, you have no personal favorites.
CLIVE: The Best Song nominees are: "Clock On The Wall" from 'The Dining Room Table' By Dana S. Lee and Sara Spring. 'Give Me Your Trust' from 'Out Of the Gloom' By David Siegel and Barbara G. Gordon. "I Have Nothing" from 'Queen Of The Night' By Nancy Garbor. "Maybe Soon" from 'Maybe Soon' Anne Trop and Ben Glass. And "Reflections Of My Heart" from 'Hot And Cold' By Leslie Moraes.
RACHEL'S POV: An usher near the wall shifts his weight. The orchestra conductor turns to look at her. A musician turns his sheet music. The dark at the back of the balcony. The CLOSE ON FRANK as he alone hears the CLICKING monitors her distress and fear.
ON STAGE: ( blurting her All right, Clive, let's find
RACHEL: ( blurting her All right, Clive, let's find
RACHEL: ( reading ) let's find out who the winner The envelope. Rachel, shall I do the honors?
CLIVE: The envelope. Rachel, shall I do the honors?
INTERCUT: RACHEL'S POV - CLIVE'S HANDS work at the envelope, tearing, freeing the flap. His fingers work to pull out the contents.
RACHEL'S FACE: watching. The CLICKING is almost deafening like a THE CLOCK The second hand ticks in enormous CLOSEUP. It's 8:07.
THE CLOCK: The second hand ticks in enormous CLOSEUP. It's 8:07.
CLOSE: as Clive pulls the card out of the envelope. It reads:
CLIVE: And the winner is "I Have Nothing"
NANCY GARBOR: This is so exciting. I can't begin to describe what it feels like to stand here with this!
NANCY GARBOR: First, I want to thank Rachel Marron. Without her support, encouragement and determination to help get an unknown songwriter heard, I wouldn't be standing here. A lot of people talk about how they're going to help others once they make it themselves, but Rachel really follows through. I'd also like to thank Helen Pollak, a wonderful producer, who never got fed up with me.
STAR #1: I always said she was nuts. I've always said that.
CLIVE: Is she all right?
RACHEL: Christ, what an idiot I am. Jesus. What the hell's the matter with me? Frank moves up closer, and exchanges looks with Tony, who is confused by Rachel's behavior. Rachel turns toward Frank and, in so doing, brings the man comforting her around to face Frank. It is Reardon.
RACHEL: Farmer, you've made me a raving Frank barely hears Rachel, so struck is he by Reardon's presence. Frank looks around them quickly for Portman. Rachel looks at Frank with irritation and turns back toward the Green Room. A production aide signals Reardon.
REARDON: ( to Rachel ) I have to go back out. Are you Thank you for your help, John. I'm fine.
RACHEL: Thank you for your help, John. I'm fine. Rachel walks off toward the Green Room with Tony. Reardon starts to walk out toward the stage. Frank stops him. Reardon is irritated.
FRANK: Where's Portman?
REARDON: ( breaking away ) Never heard of him.
FRANK: ( breaking away ) Never heard of him.
REARDON: ( breaking away ) Never heard of him.
SKIP: Rachel, I'm sorry, but if you're going to be in your seat for the Best Actress award, you've got to do it now.
RACHEL: Skip, I'm moving as fast as I can. For chrissake, go twitch somewhere Skip backs off. Spector and Frank join the group.
SPECTOR: Honey, everything's fine. No one noticed anything. Everybody in this building is ready to jump out of their skin from nerves.
RACHEL: Bullshit, you saw me. Farmer's made me a raving lunatic
FRANK: Something's going on you should know about
SPECTOR: You're making her crazy. You're making us all crazy.
FRANK: Rachel, I know who it is. He's here tonight. I think he's.
RACHEL: Shut up. This is the last straw. She throws down the powder and stands up fast, makeup and purse flying. The powder com- pact bursts over the cross lying on the table. Everyone in the Green Room looks at her.
RACHEL: ( hissing at him ) Shut up, you maniac! You never stop. Now you've made an ass of me in front of a billion people. And you won't quit.
FRANK: Tony, it's Portman. Remember? The guy from Miami.
SPECTOR: After tonight, you're back in He knows nothing about show
TONY: He knows nothing about show
SPECTOR: He knows nothing about show
TONY: You are an asshole.
REARDON: Presenting the Best Actress award, we have the man who last year received the top honor an actor can achieve for his performance in "South Of Waco". Ladies and gentlemen, Tom Winston!
APPLAUSE: Frank watches, his eyes scanning, searching the vast theatre, squinting as he tries to see beyond the glare of the klieg lights and the cameras.
WINSTON: Thank you, John, thank you, Academy.
LAUGHTER: FRANK'S POV - RACHEL, DEVANEY AND SPECTOR theatre, high into the gloom of the balcony.
WINSTON: FRANK'S POV - RACHEL, DEVANEY AND SPECTOR theatre, high into the gloom of the balcony.
WINSTON: Tonight we give this award not to the best actress, but to the best performance by one of five exquisitely talented artists.
ON SCREEN: FRANK'S POV - THE PATH stage, the faces of the ushers near the stage, the conductor, ready to play theme music.
FRANK'S POV: In the wings of the opposite side of the stage, half hidden by a curtain, a TV cameraman is hoisting his lightweight portable camera onto his shoulder. His back is to us.
FRANK: Tony, I want you on the other side. and check out that guy. He's not supposed to be there.
FRANK'S POV: The cameraman half-turns toward us, peering past the curtain into the audience. For a split second, we glimpse his face. It's Portman. Then someone crosses quickly in front of him and he's gone.
BACKSTAGE: Frank draws his gun. He glances quickly to Tony, but Tony's already on his way, trotting round the labyrinth behind the set. Frank automatically raises his sleeve to call to Tony, then realizes his communications are useless. He tries to see where Portman has disappeared to, but he daren't lose sight of Rachel.
WINSTON: And the winner is. Rachel Marron for Queen Of The Night.
FRANK'S FACE: grim. He looks past the curtain to Rachel.
TONY: Hey! You! What the fuck you think you're doin' back here.
FRANK'S POV: toward the steps, there in the far aisle, his face almost hidden, is Portman the camera, hand-held on his shoulder, moving level with Rachel, 20 feet behind her. Frank raises his gun.
AISLE: in her eyes. Thunderous applause. Security guards in the side aisles look around in all directions. They can't see anything.
FRANK'S POV: the members of the audience, as more and more of them stand to applaud Rachel.
PORTMAN'S POV: disappearing behind the heads of the audience.
FRANK'S FACE: ON STAGE - PODIUM
FRANK'S FACE: He can't see Portman past the glare. He can't fire into the audience. He knows Rachel is now at her most vulner- able. There is only one thing he can do to protect his BACKSTAGE WINGS Frank runs on stage at terrific speed and leaps through the air at Rachel, twisting his body as he does.
BACKSTAGE WINGS: Frank runs on stage at terrific speed and leaps through the air at Rachel, twisting his body as he does.
RACHEL: CLOSE ON PORTMAN The silenced PISTOL taped to the side of the camera FIRES.
ON STAGE: Frank and Rachel tumble over on the floor. The podium topples. There are screams from the audience.
AUDITORIUM: Pandemonium breaks out. Men run on stage from all directions. Guns are drawn. Everyone is shouting. TV cameras whip-pan in all directions, security men shout into walkie-talkies.
TV DIRECTOR: What the fuck?
RACHEL: He's my bodyguard. Get off him! He's O.K.
PORTMAN'S POV: Hysterical audience members jostle for the exit, screaming and shouting. It's like a football scrum. Cops and secur- ity men pushing and pulling. His escape route is blocked.
PORTMAN: Cool again, he turns back to the stage, seeking an alternative escape route, camera still providing cover.
TONY: ( bellowing ) Frank! Frank! Over here!
ON STAGE: Frank and Rachel's heads swivel in unison at the sound, looking towards the far aisle.
PORTMAN: Against the side wall at the front, Portman's eyes desperately scan for the source of the voice. He sees Tony, his pistol takes aim.
FRANK'S POV: For a split second, two running figures f.g. pass and cross leaving a momentary clear line to Portman.
ON STAGE: Frank FIRES. ONCE. TWICE.
PORTMAN: Frank's bullets hit home. The first slams Portman in the chest, knocking him against the wall. The second hits the CAMERA on his shoulder, EXPLODING it around his face.
ON STAGE: Frank holds his aim steady, reluctant to look away. He half turns to Rachel, wincing with the effort. She's unhurt. He has fulfilled his promise to her. Rachel throws her arms around Frank and hugs him, tears streaming down her cheeks.
FRANK: ( indicating eyepatch ) How's it going?
TONY: Under control. But it won't be the same. ya mutt. Tony fakes a glancing blow to Frank's chin. Over by the plane, Fletcher spots Frank and tugs at Rachel's dress, till she turns to look. Fletcher runs up to Frank and hugs him around the knees. Rachel approaches and Tony moves back toward the plane. Devaney waves in Frank's direction, tapping his watch to indicate they are late. Frank waves and smiles. Rachel's surprised to see Frank, but clearly happy. Fletcher is ecstatic.
RACHEL: You shouldn't be here. Frank laughs. There is a pause.
RACHEL: So, you're quitting show business?
FRANK: Too bad. You had talent. What are you going to do?
RACHEL: Too bad. You had talent. What are you going to do?
FRANK: I thought I might hole up with my Finish that chess game. Rachel nods approvingly.
RACHEL: Get him when Fletcher's not That's the idea. Fletcher grins. Rachel starts to cry.
FRANK: ( ruffling Fletcher's That's the idea.
FRANK: So, how's the new guy?
RACHEL: He's got white hair, Frank.
FRANK: He's very good.
RACHEL: Why'd you have to get me an old I don't trust you.
FRANK: I don't trust you.
RACHEL: Yeah. well, give me a kiss and let's get this over with. Frank gives her an awkward hug. They kiss.
FRANK: 'Bye Rachel. Rachel turns quickly. She almost runs up the boarding ladder. Frank remains watching her. Fletcher looks back over his shoulder as they disappear into the plane.
DEVANEY: That wasn't so bad. You okay? Rachel is in her own world. Devaney passes the word to get moving. The ENGINES WARM UP. Rachel turns and sees Frank still standing there looking at her.
RACHEL: 226 EXT. TARMAC - DAY 226 The steps start to fold down out of the plane, but not fast enough for Rachel. She jumps the last six feet, staggering slightly as the plane's jet wash hits her, whipping her clothes and hair. Without pausing, she runs to Frank who takes her in his arms. They embrace and kiss. They kiss again and again. Finally, slowly, Rachel draws back, her eyes are filled with tears.
RACHEL: Remember when you said you'd risk your life for me?
RACHEL: I didn't really believe it then. Nobody means what they say. But you did, Frank. You did it. You laid it all on the line for me.
RACHEL: Don't wreck this for me. I don't want to hear any bullshit about you just doing your job. You did more than save my life, Frank. You showed me a way to be. And I love you for it. There, I said it. I'll never forget what it felt like to be under your eye. Never.
FRANK: ( smiles ) I won't be forgetting you either.
RACHEL: Here. I want you to keep this. If you ever need me, you just put this on and no matter where you are I will find you. I promise.
ON FRANK: The ROAR of the plane becomes APPLAUSE.
RACHEL: Thank you. Thank you. Now I want to sing you an old song, but it's a new favorite. As the music begins, Rachel stands alone in front of the band, mike in hand.
RACHEL: You know, this song used to make me feel sad. But it doesn't Rachel pauses. The audience is still.
RACHEL: Now it just reminds me of someone very special. This is for him. Rachel begins to sing the song 'WHAT BECOMES OF THE BROKEN HEARTED' - slow and sweet. It's the song she and Frank danced to. As a VERSE
TRAILS OFF: 228 INT. CLERMONT HOTEL ( IOWA CITY ) - NIGHT 228
REVEREND HARDY: Heavenly Father, please bless us today as we meet in friendship and duty. STILL TRACKING as we REACH the end of the table.
REVEREND HARDY: . For all we know in our hearts that even though we may walk through the valley of the shadow of death, you are with us. guiding and protecting us. Amen. The Reverend's final words segue into Rachel's song. Frank's searching gaze around the room is arrested for a moment as though reacting to Rachel's voice.
THE END: Writers : Lawrence Kasdan
