SHOTGUN: "Thou shalt not bring a dog into the house of the Lord thy God, for they are an abomination." Deuteronomy.
PALMER: Great. Gun shots.
JASON: Just a backfire.
PALMER: Like you'd know. Face it. We're lost.
JASON: Take a left, no, I mean a right. Okay, stop for a second.
STANK: ( on phone ) Back here. At the end of the block.
JASON: You got the shit?
STANK: ( on the phone ) Yeah, but you got to come the rest of the way on foot. Leave your car and walk over here.
JASON: Let me see it.
STANK: Let me see it.
JASON: ( hands him the money ) Where is it?
STANK: I can't carry it in my pocket, man. And I can't go get it for you cause you might be a cop. You gonna have to pick it up
JASON: Fuck it. Alright.
PALMER: Is it too late for me to officially register my growing certainty that this is an extremely bad idea?
JASON: Easy as pie. And twice as tasty.
PALMER: Someone's screwing with the car!
SHOTGUN: Yo. You two, get the hell away from
PALMER: Let's get the hell outta here.
JASON: Oh fuck, c'mon.
OLDER COP: .not going in there. Waste o' time.
YOUNGER COP: I saw 'em go in.
DOWN BELOW: The young plainsclothes cop steps deeper into the room, and shines his flashlight at the stairwell.
UPSTAIRS: Jason pulls the reluctant Palmer further up the stairs, to the third floor as below them they hear the cop coming up. Jason pulls Palmer through the nearest door and into:
DOWNSTAIRS: The cop begins to head up the stairs. Visible behind him, down through the open front door, is the plain wrap car. The older cop inside, mouth fulla sammich, loudly says:
LUPOVICH: Let's get the hell outta here.
PALMER: Gimme some light.
PALMER: ( bumping fists together ) Damn, bro. That was close!
THEN SUDDENLY: Something - it happens so fast we're not sure just what grabs sucks-pulls Palmer back into the black doorway hole. Jason, still prone, tries to crawl away but whatever got his friend now sucks him in too. His fingernails scraping along the stoop in frenzied desperation.
WITH SHOTGUN: When he hears the boys pitiful screams and whimpers from across the street, he leaps to his feet and tries to see into the dark of the doorway across the street. But he can only hear what is happening to the unlucky frat fellas: Moans and the sound of flesh torn, and swallowed, and their last dying screams.
SHOTGUN: "For outside are dogs and sorcerers." Revelation 22, vs. 15.
SHOTGUN: Just tightens his grip on his rifle and speaks as if the shadowy thing across the street could hear him.
THE SHADOW: Shakes its head. As if it can hear him. And again mutely beckons to him.
ON SHOTGUN: SHOTGUN ( CONT'D )
BONES: Don't spend it all in one place. Spread it around. And shop local.
CREDITS END: out of order to reflect the final film. This portion of the screenplay contains scenes that do not appear or occur elsewhere in the final movie. In order to maintain the integrity of the screenplay, it has not been edited.
MAURICE: Goodness gracious grande bolas del fuego!
PATRICK: Well, the bad news is we only made 25 bucks each.
TIA: How could that be? The box was packed!
PATRICK: Moe's terms.
MAURICE: We practically paying him for the privilege of playing his club.
BILL: So what the hell's the good news?
PATRICK: I just accelerated my top secret long term plan for our world domination.
MAURICE: Sqweeep. We innerup this programme to bring you this special news bulletin ( human teletype sounds ) "Aliens from Reticula 3 have hijacked Patrick Peet and injected moly headcheese into his skull filling his entire brain cavity with cosmic slop."
PATRICK: I was planning on waiting until I got the place cleaned out, but like the man says, carpe diem.
TIA: Illibent? Who's club is that?
PATRICK: What're ya talkin' about, OURS?
BILL: What're ya talkin' about, OURS?
BILL: Looks like a damn graveyard round here.
PATRICK: I'm telling you, this neighborhood is coming back.
MAURICE: Yeah. But just where the hell has it
BILL: Damn. That is the ugliest building I have ever seen.
PATRICK: Naw. I think it's. I dunno. Something about it just buzzes me.
MAURICE: That would be the after effects of that Reticular inseminoid encounter you had.
PATRICK: Welcome to the Ill Zone.
TIA: Damn it's cold in here!
BILL: It's eighty degrees outside. And it's gotta be barely fifty in here.
MAURICE: And damp, too. Let's not forget damp.
PATRICK: Whattaya think? Can you picture it? Over there the bar, and in here the dance floor.
BILL: Possible.maybe.could be.
PATRICK: I got a great deal on it. They couldn't give this place away. Just dead meat stanking up their books for twenty years.
MAURICE: Jimmy Bones?
PATRICK: Yeah, you heard of him?
MAURICE: You haven't?
PATRICK: Not that I remember.
MAURICE: He was a local legend back in the '70's. There was a song, Stagolee kinda deal: "This is the ballad of Jimmy Bones/Black as night and hard as stone."
PATRICK: I was born near here. My dad's from here. He never mentioned it.
BILL: Bones! How baddass is zat? This is the place for us. Patrick, you get platinum props, man. Platinum.
MAURICE: Yeah, in the land of the blind the one eye'd are king.
BILL: What's your problem with Crippled Dick?
MAURICE: Look around, this place is a dump! Naw, it'd have to work to be a dump.
PATRICK: You gotta use your imagination.
MAURICE: "This is Patrick." ".And this is Patrick on crack." Imagination, my butt. Even the space cowboy can't.
PATRICK: ( interrupting ) Why don't y'all check out the rest? I'm going downstairs and see if I can get the furnace fired up. Warm this place up, you'll see. It has serious potential.
MAURICE: Potential toxic dump site.
BILL: Are you nuts?
MAURICE: The man said just to use my imagination. Let's see.yeah, I get it. Potential. I can see it now. The first major urban theme park. Village Ghetto land. Kinda like Legoland, but made entirely from broken glass, hypodermic needles and crack vials. Totally E-ticket.
BILL: Keep smokin', fool.
HOLLOW ECHOES: It ain't eh money. It's the big fat floating what if.
BILL: What did you say?
MAURICE: I didn't say nothing.
HOLLOW ECHOES: Take him down to the storm clear. Bury You didn't hear that? "Take him. " Something. "Bury him" or.
BILL: You didn't hear that? "Take him. " Something. "Bury him" or.
MAURICE: Take who where? What you smokin'?
BONES POV: Bones watches as Patrick reaches around the gas heater. When Patrick strikes a match head, the Bones-shadow moves even closer to him as Patrick reaches in and lights the pilot. When Patrick steps back, Bones-shadow grows and stretches, spreading like an ink stain, reaching across to where the pilot flame flickers. In profile, the shadow-mouth blows.but no breath comes out. The flame doesn't even flicker. Bones tilts his head back and lets loose an eerie bellow of frustration in a subliminal flash we see a howling mouth, bigger than any human mouth, howling within the shadow-face. The sound echoes all through the basement rooms as Patrick walks back upstairs. He slaps a nearby plumbing pipe.
PATRICK: Go on old pipes, groan all you like. Just please don't burst. That I can't
HOLLOW ECHOES: Go on. It won't kill you.
BILL: You had to hear tha.
HOLLOW ECHOES: I ain't gonna be the only one with this nigger's blood on my hands.
BILL: What the f?
MAURICE: 'S up?
BILL: Nothing. Contact paranoia. Must be buggin' from hanging with you.
TIA: How'd you get locked in here? And for how long? Poor baby.
BILL: You want us to move in here?
PATRICK: That's the only way we'll get the place fixed up in time.
MAURICE: Yeah right, and which ever of us is still alive at the end of the week inherits all Vincent Price's cash.
PATRICK: Look, you guys want to play college radio, high school reunions, and some fool's club once a week for the rest of your lives, that's cool. But I think we can do better.
BILL: You soundin' like the old man now.
PATRICK: I believe in you guys. You are the real shit. And you know it. Now I'm putting everything I got into this cuz I think we can make it happen, but you gotta put a little in too. Now all I"m asking is that everybody do their part. We'll move some shit in, and take shifts, or all crash together here
BILL: Pat's right. It'll be fun.
MAURICE: Yeah, fine. But Mars Needs Women. If I gotta sleep in a spookhouse, surround me with chicks who are more scared than me. Speaking of which.
BILL: ( rips Maurice's skull ) Tia ain't a chick. She's family. And don't forget it.
PATRICK: Let's get going. Go home, pick up what we need, then crash here.
TIA: Look who I found.
MAURICE: Damn, that's the nastiest dog I ever seen. Nothin' but skin and bones.
TIA: Yeah, call his skinny ass "Bones."
SHOTGUN: Hey, watcha doing with that dog?
BILL: He yours, sir?
SHOTGUN: Hell no!
BILL: Then what do you care?
SHOTGUN: Take my advice. And shoot that dog. Or let me.
BILL: Alright. Yes sir. Anything you say.
PEARL: Don't feed that dog.
BILL: You people really don't like dogs.
PEARL: Some holes can't be filled. Some hungers can't be satisfied.
MAURICE: ( way under his breath ) And some people need their medication I'm not joking boy. Don't feed it. It'll only make it hungrier.
PEARL: I'm not joking boy. Don't feed it. It'll only make it hungrier.
MAURICE: Need any help with those bags, Ma'am?
PEARL: No thanks.
PATRICK: no really, let us help. We're new in the neighborhood, gonna be neighbors.
CINNABAR: You moved into this block?
MAURICE: Not really to live, just to play.
PEARL: That building?
MAURICE: Gonna be le hot shit. Pardon my Francais. Dance club. The Resurrection Brothers play there. Heard of them?
PEARL: Should I?
CINNABAR: Are they on the radio?
PATRICK: Naw. But they will be. They're the How do you know?
CINNABAR: How do you know?
PATRICK: I manage them.
PEARL: And you bought the building?
PATRICK: I was born near here. But after my mother died, my dad moved. I grew up out in Rossmore Park.
PEARL: You're pretty black to be growing up in Rossmore Park.
CINNABAR: Guess it's not Rossmore Park. Thanks for the help.
PATRICK: Anytime. Be seeing you.
MAURICE: Yeah, well if she got psychic powers, how come she's working here on Desolation
STANK: Say Eddie.
MACK: Goddamnit! How many times I told you
STANK: We got a gift for you, Eddie. Fresh new
MACK: That you stole off those white boys was down here last night? Are you crazy? Everybody from hell to breakfast heard that screamin' on Blackstone last night!
STANK: How many times I told you, no psycho shit. There gonna be psycho shit, I'm the one that does it.
MACK: How many times I told you, no psycho shit. There gonna be psycho shit, I'm the one that does it.
WEAZE: We didn't do nothing, Eddie.
MACK: You gon tell me you didn't ginsu those punks and steal their ride?
WEAZE: That's all we did, steal their ride.
MACK: Get that car the hell away from here, now! I spend a lot of money to keep the cops cool. But this is the kinda shit that pisses everybody off.
STANK: We just thought.
MACK: No more thoughts from your asses. Or I will burn your asses and snort the ashes. Hear me?
GUARD: Okay, go on ahead.
BILL: I been living here my whole life, and that hillbilly still has to check me out each time.
MAURICE: Hey, it's his job. Keeping indesirables outta the hood.
PATRICK: Hey, Dad. Not only do I have to feed the three mouths I got, and that bottomless pit they call Maurice, I gotta feed this stray, too?
JEREMIAH: Not only do I have to feed the three mouths I got, and that bottomless pit they call Maurice, I gotta feed this stray, too?
TIA: Shhh, Bones. It's not nice to bite the hand that feeds you.
JEREMIAH: What did you call that dog?
NANCY: ( moving on ) Just what are you feeding him? I didn't know we had dog food.
TIA: We don't. I used that meat you had in the bowl.
NANCY: Tia, that was the prime rib I was marinating for dinner.
BONES: Hold up S-G. Give him a toot.
JEREMIAH: 'Sup Jimmy B. Shotgun. Get back on the curb! Now!
BONES: Go easy on Jay Bird. I can remember when we was his age.
JEREMIAH: It's all arranged for tonight. Eddie Mack's gonna be there. And Offisa Korruptsky, too.
BONES: They get about twelve and a half minutes. Trust me, Jimmy, there's big money behind this. Not just big. BIG. Like big business big. Big corporation big. Big government big. Our little acre alone'll net hundreds a thousands. Nothing but Nothing but net? Could be a swish. Or a muthafucking air ball.
JEREMIAH: Trust me, Jimmy, there's big money behind this. Not just big. BIG. Like big business big. Big corporation big. Big government big. Our little acre alone'll net hundreds a thousands. Nothing but Nothing but net? Could be a swish. Or a muthafucking air ball.
BONES: Nothing but net? Could be a swish. Or a muthafucking air ball.
JEREMIAH: One simple word, three little letters. Yes. That's all it's gonna take and we could move out of this dump, get the real deal. Big houses, legit business.
BONES: That's your dream, Homes. Not mine. I don't want to leave this street. Ever. The status quo is totally cool with me.
PEARL: Maybe I oughtta get there a little early. For good luck.
BONES: Don't need luck tonight. I'm just letting 'em have their say before I say Let me see your hand.
PEARL: ( worried ) Let me see your hand.
BONES: All that shinin' and "reader and adviser" mess. That was your mama's bag. I don't know about the readin' but you both can sure 'nuff advise.
PEARL: ( swats his hand ) My mama's bag and my granma's bag, and a long line of mamas before her.
BONES: Sounds like mama needs a brand new bag.
PEARL: Such fine hands. You shoulda been a musician. You got the fingers.
BONES: Must be my clothes line. No? How bout my phone line?
PEARL: No baby. I'm serious. Cancel that meeting. I got more fruit that needs checking. Come home with me now.
BONES: Don't you worry about a thing. This hand's gonna be stroking the back of your neck tonight.
JEREMIAH: ( under his breath ) 'Cause you got all the status. And I got nothing but quo.
LUPOVICH: ( to the cop in the car ) Wait here. And don't touch my fucking
LUPOVICH: Not your style. Is it Eddie? Killing off your customers?
MACK: I ain't killed nobody. Shall I rack 'em? Play a game, Lupe?
LUPOVICH: No time for eightball. I got your tip.
MACK: You was just doing your job.
LUPOVICH: Last thing you need's for me to start doing my fucking job.
PATRICK: When we got a line of hundred paying guests and another couple hundred inside dancing, that's when I'll tell him. And I can't wait to see the look on his face.
PATRICK: And how do you think crack got into the ghetto? By magic? Who flew it in? Like the man said "we don't own that many
JEREMIAH: Don't poison your mind with that ghetto paranoia. That's all just ways of people justifying their own failure.
BILL: Dad, the man has been lying to us for a hundred years. I mean, where is my forty acres and a mule?
JEREMIAH: You wouldn't know a mule if it bit you in the ass. And personally, I don't need a mule. I got a Lexus. And nobody gave it to me
TV ANCHOR: ( on TV ) There's a lead tonight in the strange disappearance of those two State College fraternity brothers. There car, a 1999 BMW, was found abandoned this afternoon in an inner-city neighborhood.
ON TV: We see flashes on the news of various streets of the hood, including a shot of Bones block and building.
JEREMIAH: What the hell do you want?
LUPOVICH: Just a visit with my old pal, Jay-bird.
JEREMIAH: Don't call me that.
LUPOVICH: You certainly traded up. .the trophy wife. Nice lookin'.
JEREMIAH: Keep your hands to yourself, willya?
LUPOVICH: I been watching you. You done good. Invested wisely. Respectable businessman now. Just like you always wanted.
JEREMIAH: And you? Still a pig. Just a much fatter one.
LUPOVICH: No reason to get nasty. Yeah, I've stayed in the organization. But then again I never got the percentage you did.
JEREMIAH: Or you didn't know what to do with it.
LUPOVICH: Maybe so. Maybe so. But that ain't why I came to see you. You sold the What building?
JEREMIAH: What building?
LUPOVICH: Don't shit a shitter. Our building. What did you call it? His 'tomb'? We had an agreement. You were supposed to sit on it. Not sell it
JEREMIAH: I didn't sell it.
LUPOVICH: Well, somebody bought it. That's what I
JEREMIAH: Claire? Could you come in here.
CLA: Matter of fact, we did. 5606.
JEREMIAH: To who?
CLA: I only met with the broker. The structure was listed almost worthless and had never even had a bid, I thought you'd be pleased to see it sold to someone who wants to improve the neighborhood. Anything wrong?
JEREMIAH: No, of course not. Good work. Thanks a
LUPOVICH: That's a Bozo no-no. Jay-bird.
JEREMIAH: Look, even if anyone found anything there, it's twenty years ago. They could never connect it to us.
LUPOVICH: You better hope not. Cause it's like they say, four can keep a secret, if three are dead.
JEREMIAH: That's it. Get out. Now!
BILL: Hey, that's.
JEREMIAH: That's what?
BILL: That's some terrible shit.
JEREMIAH: Clean your mouth, or I will. Those boys had no business messing down there. Go places you're not meant to be that's what you get.
BILL: But that's your old hood, Pops.
JEREMIAH: Yeah, and it took some doing to get out of there. Just be glad I did and you can start life from here instead of down But maybe we're the ones who should be down there. Doing something. Making it Can't be done. That place already died and gone to hell.
PATRICK: But maybe we're the ones who should be down there. Doing something. Making it Can't be done. That place already died and gone to hell.
JEREMIAH: Can't be done. That place already died and gone to hell.
PATRICK: Careful. That's bad luck.
CINNABAR: That place is already bad luck.
PATRICK: No. It goes way back. Or so my Momma What else does she say?
CINNABAR: No. It goes way back. Or so my Momma What else does she say?
PATRICK: What else does she say?
CINNABAR: Nothing. You'd think she was crazy. And she is a lot of things, not all of them nice, but crazy Momma's not.
PATRICK: Way I figure, everything our parents tell us is part true and part total B.S. And our whole job is figuring out for ourselves which is which.
CINNABAR: My momma says every house is two houses. Every street, two streets. There's a whole city, a whole world, kinda beside, on top, just below this one. The city of the dead.
PATRICK: Like right now, there's actually like hordes of dead people shambling around us? Fingers rotting off?
CINNABAR: Maybe. But there's an invisible wall, a fabric that kinda keeps things separate.
PATRICK: Lucky thing.
CINNABAR: Yeah. But when something bad happens, something really bad the wall breaks. The fabric tears.
PATRICK: The dead get out?
CINNABAR: Or the living fall in. Who knows.
PATRICK: And you believe her?
CINNABAR: If I did, I wouldn't come within fifty yards of your door.
MAURICE: You ever hear of Jimmy Bones, sir?
SHOTGUN: What business is it of yours?
MAURICE: Just wondered. We heard he used to live in our building.
BILL: Is it true?
SHOTGUN: Yeah. He lived there. And died there, Died there? How?
BILL: Died there? How?
SHOTGUN: How the hell should I know?
MAURICE: What was he like?
SHOTGUN: Bones? He was something. He could be cold as ice or warm as blood. But he never turned his back for a brother.
BILL: Take my advice. Get the hell out of there. It's a bad place. Always has
SHOTGUN: Take my advice. Get the hell out of there. It's a bad place. Always has
OLD WOMAN: .and every Tuesday, he'd roll by in his car and drive me with all my laundry to the laundromat so I wouldn't have to carry the clothes.
WHEELCHAIR MAN: Jimmy Bones? Yeah, I knew that motherfucker. People make out like he was some kinda damn Robin Hood. Bullshit. I saw him cut some muhfucker's tongue once with that razor of his.dropped it right into that jar of dill pickles they used to have on the counter in the bar.
WINO: When I was a kid he used to slip twenties into my pocket so I could buy toys and Bones was awrright. He was solid. And then one day, he just wasn't around no more. Don't pay to ask too many questions 'round here.
BILL: Tia? Patrick? That you?
PATRICK: Bill looks back into the room, normal now. Glances up at the mirror, just a cracked reflection of the empty room.
BILL: No. Well, yeah. Maybe just a little.
PATRICK: Yeah, there is a strange vibe here.
BILL: Where's the others?
PATRICK: Maurice left. Tia's taking a bath.
PATRICK: .we just been in the damn suburbs too
TIA: There wasn't any draft. That window was We're all tired. Everybody makes mistakes. Tomorrow in the daylight, everything's gonna look different.
PATRICK: We're all tired. Everybody makes mistakes. Tomorrow in the daylight, everything's gonna look different.
PATRICK: I thought you were bringing the Colonel?
MAURICE: The Gangster of Love don't eat no fried Why not? He eats everything else.
PATRICK: Why not? He eats everything else.
MAURICE: Just what army do you think the Colonel was in? Everybody knows the whole chicken distribution network is owned by the Klan. "Special recipe". I'm telling you. There's something in the batter. Say it makes a black man sterile.
MAURICE: Word. I saw it on Sixty Minutes.
PATRICK: Maurice, even if it was true, what are you worried about? Last time I checked, you weren't black. I'm not sure what the hell you are. But I know you aren't a black man.
MAURICE: I am the future. I am all colors. All races. All creeds. I am the melting pot. I am the tossed salad. I am post Post-toasted's more like it.
PATRICK: Post-toasted's more like it.
CLOSER: To the building - we can hear sounds coming from inside the house. Like dim drums, some kind of rhythm.
PEARL: Welcome, brother. Welcome, sisters. Make yourselves comfortable around the circle. We'll begin in a minute.
PEARL: Aren't you going to join us?
CINNABAR: I have to finish this for class.
PEARL: You got a vision, girl. Just like I got. Just like my momma had. And the good Lord didn't give you that vision just for painting pretty pictures. That's just wasted time.
CINNABAR: You mean as opposed to your life?
PEARL: I don't want you meeting around that house. You stay away from those kids. And away from that dog.
CINNABAR: They seemed alright. Bring a little life to that old building.
PEARL: Nothing but a wide world o' pain locked in there.
CINNABAR: Have you ever been inside?
PEARL: Maybe once upon a time. But that was long ago. Back before. before it became what it is.
CINNABAR: And what's that?
PEARL: Just a bad place. And the doorway to
BASEMENT: Bones' POV looks at the padlocked door. Then passes right through it.
CINNABAR: Just thought I'd see if you needed any
TIA: Good. We do need help. First you can help us eat lunch.
TIA: Watcha looking at, poochie?
CINNABAR: I hate it when dogs do that. Like they're looking right out of the world.
ANGLE ON: The transparent tubes of the cleaner fill with disgusting red fluid and carpet fibers.
ANGLE ON: The now clean carpet. Suddenly we see glutinous red liquid seeping back up through the shag, until the stain is right where it was. Wet and fresh. Then we see it spread and move, in the shape of a body and the path by which it was dragged out of the room. The door opens again, and Patrick steps in to show off the freshly painted room clean rug to Cinnabar and the others. He's brought up short by the sight of the stain.
PATRICK: Must be something seeping through. From the floor.
TIA: Yeah. It's. Throbbing.
BILL: Like a heartbeat.
MAURICE: "Like a heartbeat/Like a love beat." Listen to the Di Franco twins there. Just the plumbing or something, fool.
PATRICK: Maybe there's a pipe underneath the floor. It leaked and stained.
MAURICE: Sounds like we got the Invisible Scratch Piklz hiding in our pipes.
PATRICK: I think these bring the water down from the bathroom. Into this. Check it out. The same shit that was in the carpet. Told you it was from the
TIA: What is that?
MAURICE: ( stopping ) Ugh. Muchos moscos, man. This is too Just some flies.
BILL: Just some flies.
MAURICE: Some flies? I think this qualifies as way more than "some."
CINNABAR: What a smell.
MAURICE: Hey, what you expect? Where there's smoke there's fire. And where there's flies, there's shit.
BILL: Maurice, man, shut the fuck up.
PATRICK: Yeah, well, Maurice is right. It's gonna take more work than I thought. But we can still do it. We'll lay a real floor in here. Put damping on the walls. Totally controlled sound. Be perfect. No one could hear shit up on the street.
MAURICE: Yeah, perfect. Really excellent. We can make our first record where no one can hear us scream. Be afraid.
CINNABAR: Oh god.
BILL: Hello. Who're you?
MAURICE: Boys and girls, Moms and Dads. Children of all ages, I'd like you to meet. Jimmy Bones.
BILL: What the hell you talking about?
MAURICE: ( singing ) "This is the story of Jimmy Bones/Black as night and hard as stones/Gold plated deuce, like the King of Siam/Got his switchblade loose, and a diamond on his hand." There's the switchblade and there's the diamond. Don't know where the deuce is parked.
BILL: You think that's really him?
MAURICE: Damn. It's so.fresh.
TIA: Boy, put that thing down. You can't take that. Might be evidence.
PATRICK: Evidence of what?
TIA: Somehow I don't think he stabbed himself in the chest, then buried himself too.
PATRICK: Get your damn dog, girl!
TIA: What we have to do is call the police.
MAURICE: Right. Call the police. We'll have no problem getting our permits then.
TIA: We can't just leave it here.
PATRICK: Yeah, we can. Least till after this weekend. He ain't going nowhere. We'll deal with it then.
BILL: Whatever, let's just get the hellout of
CINNABAR: What? Oh yeah. Coming.
MAURICE: Oh fuck.
TIA: Picky mutt.
CINNABAR: She doesn't want me here. With you. In this house.
PATRICK: Believe me, my old man'd rupture his spleen if he knew we was down here. All he talks about is the medal he deserves for building us a life as far from this 'hood as possible.
CINNABAR: He probably thinks he's saving you from something. I'm sure that's what my mother thinks.
PATRICK: I'm sure I can make your mother like me. But then do I gotta worry 'bout your
CINNABAR: I don't know anything about my father. I never met him. Momma won't talk about him, either.
PEARL: We should begin with a hymn.
CINNABAR: I can't. Not yet.
PATRICK: It's alright. If you want to go home.
CINNABAR: No, I want to stay with you guys. But I can't. I mean I'm not ready.
PATRICK: Don't worry about it. I'll stay with the
PEARL: The spirit world is all around us right this minute. And the departed are pressing in around us.
CINNABAR: ( half-asleep ) It's okay, just don't get funny on me. It's warmer this way.
PEARL: Someone's with us. Who's joined the Lordy.what's that smell?
OLD MAN: Lordy.what's that smell?
OLD WOMAN: Look. The flowers.
PEARL: Knock once for yes. And twice for no. Is there someone who wishes to send a
CINNABAR: ( laughing low ) Cut it out.
CINNABAR: Patrick! Stop!!
PATRICK: What's wrong?
BILL: Why don't you hang on and I'll see if she's here.
PEARL: I know damn well she's there.
PEARL: You might as well just dig down six feet of muddy earth and sleep in your own grave than stay another night in that
BILL: You sure got a way with women, bro. What happened up there?
PATRICK: Damned if I know.
TIA: Yes! We're in business.
JEREMIAH: Where are we going? You know I hate A little business move I made. On my own. I think you're gonna approve.
PATRICK: A little business move I made. On my own. I think you're gonna approve.
JEREMIAH: What are we doing down here?
PATRICK: Like you always said, Pop, look for the
PATRICK: I bet you didn't even know your bank owned the place. I did it through a broker so you wouldn't know it was me. I couldn't wait to see your face when I fixed it up.
JEREMIAH: Is this some kind of sick joke?
PATRICK: I thought you'd be psyched. Just trying to do what you did. Take nothing and make something out of it.
JEREMIAH: No one'll ever come here. Shut it down. Don't worry, the bank'll buy it back. I'll take care of it.
PATRICK: You'll take care of it? Not this time. No way. I bought it fair and square. And we open tonight.
JEREMIAH: Bullshit! Bullshit!! You're selling it back! That's an order!
CLUBBER: Man, I think we're lost. You guys know where Illibent is?
BONES: Pull over. I'll walk the rest.
PEARL: I don't know whether to chill you and serve with cottage cheese, or rip you open and eat you right here.
BONES: Listen, Baby, I gotta TCB this evening. So come over 'bout eight. We should be finished by then.
JEREMIAH: Hey Jimmy, you know Eddie Mack, don't We met.
BONES: We met.
MACK: Yeah, we used to do the after-school b ball at Kenwood. What it is?
BONES: What it will be.
JEREMIAH: And Officer Lupovich.
MACK: You got a nice crib here.
BONES: I do alright. Everybody's happy.
MACK: But things change. You gotta think They got lotteries all over now, Bonesy. Coming here too, maybe next year.
LUPOVICH: They got lotteries all over now, Bonesy. Coming here too, maybe next year.
JEREMIAH: Half our old customers are gonna be getting their people to cross state lines to pick up lotto tickets.
MACK: Besides, there's more money to be made in the gin than the juice. What do anybody want with numbers anyway?
BONES: What else? Money.
MACK: It ain't the money - it's the high. The big fat floating 'what if?' And it's way more profitable. Nobody ever wins. So you never have to pay out.
BONES: But a two dollar bet is cheaper than a twenty-dollar bag.
MACK: Yeah, but I ain't talking horse. I'm talking about a five-dollar kick in the head that's a quick ticket to heaven. And the fools keep coming back for more.
BONES: Those 'fools' are my people.
MACK: Ain't no big thang. It's just a po' man's free base. Here, check it out.
BONES: I ain't interested. And if you gonna sell it, don't sell it round here.
MACK: Just try it.
BONES: I said, no thanks.
MACK: Go on. It won't kill you.
SHOTGUN: Back off, Huggybear.
MACK: It's like this, Jimmy. There's a wave coming. A big ass Krakatoa, East of Java wave. And either you gonna be on top of the wave up there in chocolate heaven, or you gonna be buried 'neath the muddy That's cool. Totally wide-screen sci-fi. Forward thinking. I respect that. But that ain't my life. I'm here and now. Comfortable as a bed bug on a cold night in a warm nappy dugout. I'm maintaining. That's what it's about for me. And your twelve and a half-minutes is up.
BONES: That's cool. Totally wide-screen sci-fi. Forward thinking. I respect that. But that ain't my life. I'm here and now. Comfortable as a bed bug on a cold night in a warm nappy dugout. I'm maintaining. That's what it's about for me. And your twelve and a half-minutes is up.
MACK: Fine. Let's go, Loopy-Lou. Jimmy ain't into it. Gonna skip the money train and take the bus. His loss.
JEREMIAH: Everybody just be cool. Jimmy, man, I think you oughtta hear the deal.
BONES: I don't need to hear the deal. I don't need any partners. I don't need new product. And I sure as hell don't need this motherfucker's 'mattie in my face.
MACK: Just try it, Jimmy. That's all.
LUPOVICH: You heard the man. Try it.
MACK: Ain't worth it, Blood. Just drop it. And kick it here.
LUPOVICH: Tell her to stop screaming.
MACK: What it is? What it will be, muthafucka.
LUPOVICH: Now you.
JEREMIAH: No way man.
LUPOVICH: You cut him, or I shoot you. Make your
BONES: Jay bird.help me.like brothers. Sorry, my brother.
JEREMIAH: Sorry, my brother.
BONES: Since we was just grasshoppers.
JEREMIAH: You always told me, it's a dog eat dog
LUPOVICH: Now you, girlie.
PEARL: I won't.
LUPOVICH: Same deal all around. Or die with him.
PEARL: I can't. I won't. Go ahead. Shoot me. I'll be better off.
BONES POV: As his spirit rises and rises, up to the ceiling, looking down on them as they stand watching his body bleed to death. Pearl just stands there completely covered in his blood. Then in a frantic daze tears her dress off. Jeremiah gently takes her bloody dress. From above, Bones can hear them speaking below, but it's as if they were speaking far away.
JEREMIAH: Too risky to take him outside. Take him down to the storm cellar and bury him. And get rid of this too. Let this whole damn building be his tomb.
BONES POV: As he stares down in horror at all this. Above him, it seems he can see right through the ceiling to the night sky, and a swirling light opening above his head.
BACK DOWN: Staring down at the sight of his body in a deep puddle of blood, and his murderers removing his woman's dress covered with is blood. As he sees this, his ( and ours ) POV changes, becomes darker, yet clearer; too sharp, razor sharp as some softness, perhaps life itself, drains out of it. Bones sees his best friend Jeremiah and Lupovich together dragging his body out the door, leaving a thick wet stain behind him. We can hear Jimmy's last wail of rage twist and distorts in the air, becoming another deeper voice within the voice. And then he ( and we ) plunge back down to the ground, right to the dark, wet stain in the carpet. Hit it and go down through an instant's glimpse into the black sea beneath the foundation of the world: Necropolis. Where space itself seems to be made of pale bloated, gnawing, writhing things. Bodies perpetually devouring themselves and each other. We see through this dog-eat-dog nightmare, back out through the blood stain as through a key hole slowly closing.
PATRICK: Be cool. Everybody's gonna get in.
PEARL: .I've seen things. In there. Last night. You did too. Don't tell me you didn't. You were crying like a baby.
CINNABAR: You said the vision, the images. They're just that. Just pictures. They can't hurt you. That's what you always said.
PEARL: I lied.
CINNABAR: All the more reason I should be here.
PEARL: Please. It's for your own good.
CINNABAR: You said bad things hurt places. So maybe good things heal them. Good things are happening here. Maybe for the first time ever. And maybe that's all it
PEARL: I hope so, child. I really hope so.
MAURICE: The gangsta of love is in the house.
ON SCREENS: Throughout the house, the video interviews the guys did and mixed like audio samples with old blaxploitation clips and other video oddities the boys came up with.
MAURICE: Ill Bill is in the house.house.house . house.
BILL: .Bones ol' Bones so mean and bad, whupped his mamma, shot his dad.
MAURICE: Saw Bones ol' Bones on top of the hill. Rolling fat jays outta hundred dollar .Lord he never worked a day and he never will.
TIA: .Lord he never worked a day and he never will.
MAURICE: Can you take a little extended solo right about now, funk soul brotha?
BILL: Go for it.
MAURICE: Hey, baby. Time for a little meat beat
BILL: Where's the gangsta of love?
PATRICK: Probably stoned out of his gourd in some Well, go find his lazy ass. I scratch any more tonight I'm gonna have carpal tunnel syndrome.
BILL: Well, go find his lazy ass. I scratch any more tonight I'm gonna have carpal tunnel syndrome.
PATRICK: Yo. Maurice. Where are you?
SHOTGUN: Unh-unh. Let it burn.
PEARL: I don't know.
BONES: You won't be needing this.
INVESTIGATOR: Flying razor, big black man, spontaneous explosion. I got just one question: what the hell narcotic were you all on?
PATRICK: We never did that. Only.Maurice was into it.
COP: That's the one you left behind?
BILL: Yeah. My man Maurice. The Space Cowboy. The Gangsta of Love.
JEREMIAH: None of you say another word.
PEARL: It's alright, baby.
CINNABAR: Who was he, Momma? He tried to kill us.
PEARL: If he was trying to kill you, you'd be Who? Who is he? What is he?
CINNABAR: Who? Who is he? What is he?
PEARL: Your father. He was your father.
JEREMIAH: I don't want any of you ever back down there again. You hear me? And this time you'll listen to me. Or I'll let them throw your asses in jail. I mean it.
PEARL: You got his hands. Beautiful hands. I didn't even know. That night. When they - we - killed him, that you were already alive inside me. Life's like that. Grows right out of death.
CINNABAR: But if it's him. If he's really come back, won't he know us? Love us?
PEARL: Sure, if it was really him. But it isn't that simple. Jimmy's body died a long time ago. And his soul is long gone, and all that's left is that ravening, hungry spirit in the blood that soaked into the house itself, I suppose.
CINNABAR: But how do you know? Maybe he just wanted to see us? And now he's gone again. And you've all killed my father for the second time.
SHOTGUN: It wasn't my fault. I didn't know what they'd planned.
BONES: Shush. It don't matter now.
SHOTGUN: No. Really, Jimmy. Remember, man. It's me. I was on your side. Don't you
BONES: Take a look at what I remember,
SHOTGUN: I had no choice, Jimmy. What else could I do?
BONES: You coulda died with me. Died trying.
PATRICK: Did you do it?
JEREMIAH: Sure, son. I went down there and torched the place myself.
PATRICK: You could have had it done. You didn't want us there.
JEREMIAH: I wouldn't have risked killing you to get you out. I was trying to protect you.
PATRICK: From what?
JEREMIAH: It's.it's a bad neighborhood. As you can see now.
PATRICK: Bullshit, Dad. Don't front me. For once. Just tell me the truth. I came from there, too.
JEREMIAH: You were just a kid.
PATRICK: I saw your face. You knew that place. You knew those people.
JEREMIAH: That's the past. It's dead.
PATRICK: Dead? I don't think your past is dead. It's alive. And it bites.
STANK: Looking to score?
BONES: Unh-unh, little brother. I got a natural high. A supernatural high.
STANK: Hey, Eddie Mack don't like no wackos on his street. Go be Rain Man on some other bitch's block.
BONES: ( sorta singing ) Big Bad Eddie Mack? Got shit for brains and that's a fack. Hey-heh.
WEAZE: Yeah. But he got a baaaad coat. Whataya say, bro? I check out your coat?
BONES: Sure. Here it is.
STANK: appear or occur elsewhere in the final movie. In order to maintain the integrity of the screenplay, it has not been edited.
BONES: appear or occur elsewhere in the final movie. In order to maintain the integrity of the screenplay, it has not been edited.
PEARL: ( without looking up ) Welcome back, lover.
BONES: No. Not.not you. You I forgive.
PEARL: Forgive me? The hell with you, Jimmy. Cause I don't forgive you, I don't forgive you for dying. And for being so goddamn stubborn. Or for haunting my dreams. And I don't forgive you for anything you're about to do.
MACK: You boys been hitting the pipe?
WEAZE: No, Eddie. It's just that, I dunno. He was tall, and thin, and like a shadow, his face was just a blur. All I remember is the voice. It was smooth and low and it didn't seem to be comin' out of his Then how'd you hear it, fool?
MACK: Then how'd you hear it, fool?
WEAZE: It was just like in my head.
MACK: Maybe I oughta open a couple holes in that head and let all them voices out. You'll feel better, I promise.
STANK: No, Eddie, man. Wait.
MACK: I told you not to lie to me. Now what the hell happened?
COKE WHORE: ( needs a hit ) What about me, baby?
MACK: Shutup, bitch. Now what, he just said to tell you what? He was back? Who was
STANK: At the very sound of the name, Mack freezes. Then with sudden coke-fueled ferocity, he whips around and starts smacking the shit out of Stank, breaking his nose. The coke whore cheering Eddie on. Wanting to see more action.
MACK: Bones? What the fuck is that supposed to mean? Get the fuck out of here. Both of you, 'fore you hear my voice up in yo'
PEARL: He'll kill them. He'll kill every last one of them.
CINNABAR: Eddie Mack, that cop. And Jeremiah. And even when he's done, who knows. He won't be satisfied. Just like that demon dog. Feed it, and it just grows hungrier. Feed his hunger for revenge - he just wants more. Who knows where it'll stop. That kind of hunger ain't never Aren't you gonna do something about it?
PEARL: Eddie Mack, that cop. And Jeremiah. And even when he's done, who knows. He won't be satisfied. Just like that demon dog. Feed it, and it just grows hungrier. Feed his hunger for revenge - he just wants more. Who knows where it'll stop. That kind of hunger ain't never Aren't you gonna do something about it?
CINNABAR: Aren't you gonna do something about it?
PEARL: Like what? I got a little power, sure. A touch of the shining, a little of the sight. But no more than you do. We're not witches. I can't wiggle my nose or say a magic word and make him go away. Besides, maybe they deserve it. Maybe we all do.
CINNABAR: I don't. Patrick doesn't. And his brother and sister don't. And they're in the house with him.
PEARL: ( long beat ) Fine. Maybe I got nothing to lose. 'Cept you.
MACK: Bones, my ass. ".if you don't believe he's laid to rest/You count the holes in his motherfucking chest."
COKE WHORE: That tickles. I want to hear that again.
MACK: That's it, baby. Gimme the rolling bass and I'll tickle your tweeter all night
MACK: C'mon, baby!
BONES: This it? Your big-ass tidal wave.
LUPOVICH: I know it. The old slaughterhouse. Hey, Sal. That little weasel we popped today? He's got something for us. I knew he would once he thought about it.
SAL: Shit, that was fast.
LUPOVICH: 12-year olds. They scare easy. Anyway, he's gonna tip their stash. Come with I'm on my way home. Can you handle it Oh, no. Please don't make me go by myself. I'm scaaaaaaaaaared.
SAL: I'm on my way home. Can you handle it Oh, no. Please don't make me go by myself. I'm scaaaaaaaaaared.
LUPOVICH: Oh, no. Please don't make me go by myself. I'm scaaaaaaaaaared.
SAL: Fuckin' comedian. See you tomorrow.
BONES: Not half what I'm planning on.
BONES: Just using it to carry your soul.
LUPOVICH: Shit! Fuck!
BONES: ( in Mack's voice ) "Just try it.go ahead.it won't kill
PEARL: We'll have to sneak in.
CINNABAR: No we won't, Momma. I'll just have them call and tell Patrick it's us.
PEARL: Girl, they build gates like that to keep people like us out.
GUARD: ( on phone ) A young lady to see you. A Miss No. Sorry. Send her away.
JEREMIAH: No. Sorry. Send her away.
GUARD: Sorry Miss.
CINNABAR: Can't I call? And talk to them.
GUARD: Sure. But not from here. Nearest public phone would be back a few miles. Outside the mall.
PEARL: Told you so. Alright. We tried. Let's go home.
CINNABAR: Mother! No.
PATRICK: Cinnabar? Walk around the north side. There's an opening there.
GUARD: Can I help y
CINNABAR: Why couldn't you just tell him to let us My old man calls the shots. He built that gate and these damn walls.
PATRICK: My old man calls the shots. He built that gate and these damn walls.
PEARL: ( to Cinnabar ) You sure we oughta save him? Why not just let see how safe his gates and walls keep him when his past comes calling?
PATRICK: Save him? What are you talking about?
JEREMIAH: How did you get in here?
BONES: Time like this, is that what you really want to know? How I got the fuck in
PATRICK: Where's Dad?
NANCY: His study. Who're your friends?
PATRICK: Dad? Open up. Dad?? C'mon. We got to get in there.
BILL: We can't go back there. Are you crazy? You saw
PEARL: It's the only way. It's possible your father may not be dead yet.
BILL: Well, close the fucking door by all means. But don't expect me to go down there and do it.
PEARL: I don't.
PATRICK: You ain't going down there. Not alone. I'll go.
BILL: Fine. But I'm bringing a couple of
PEARL: They won't do you no good.
NANCY: What are you doing? I've just called the police and 911.
PATRICK: Then we need to get out of here. We can't try to explain this to them. We'll be back. Hopefully with Dad.
BONES: You two bitches were just meat, never had any idea smarter than getting yourself a little more. But my brother Jaybird, here. He was smart. He didn't just want more. He wanted more with compound
PEARL: . see there ain't just two parts to a person. There's three. Body-Soul and Spirit. The spirit lives in the blood. It's the wanting that holds body and soul together, and sometimes, the wanting lives on. Jimmy's blood must still be in the house.
PATRICK: But the place burned to the ground.
PEARL: The blood is still there. We just gotta figure out where.
CINNABAR: In his grave there was a cloth or a dress or something. Covered with blood.
PEARL: My God. My dress. We have to find it. And burn it. And shut the door.
BONES: ( keeping Jeremiah out from I don't understand it. You were my Man. Since we was grasshoppas. I always looked after you. You had a piece of everything I had.
JEREMIAH: I didn't want a piece of yours, I wanted my own.
BONES: And the hell everybody else, right?
JEREMIAH: Wait, Jimmy. Think about it. You woulda done the same thing if you was me.
BONES: No brother. I wouldn'ta. I never done a man - any man. Let alone a brother like that. Course, as you can see, no good deed goes unfucked. Now the question is, if the good get fucked, what we got saved up for the bad? You about to find out.
NEW ANGLE: Suddenly, Jeremiah is screaming for real as Bones has just yanked his head back out of the wall.
BONES: It's a trip, ain't it?
PEARL: We've got to hurry. We've got to shut the door. They're getting out.
PATRICK: There was a storm door, to the cellar.
JEREMIAH: What will it take? What do you want? Just tell me, Jimmy!
BONES: Aw that's easy. I want my life back. Can you swing that, my brother?
JEREMIAH: You know I can't.
BONES: Then fuck it!!!
BILL: He's found a chipped gray storm door. Patrick easily kicks in the rotten wood revealing a dark tunnel of stairs leading down beneath the ruins of the building into the sub-basement.
PATRICK: It's not safe down there. The fire started down there. The whole thing could collapse.
PEARL: Then your father's a dead man and Jimmy Bones is gonna be around a long time.
PATRICK: He's found the hole that was Bones' hastily dug grave, but there's nothing in it now but swarming white maggots.
PEARL: Is it there? It's gone. He got it.
BILL: They all look in every direction for some glimpse of hope - of a way out. There is none. Then they hear behind them: a resonant "DING!"
NO!!!!!!: They all look in every direction for some glimpse of hope - of a way out. There is none. Then they hear behind them: a resonant "DING!"
PEARL: It's alright. Let me.
CINNABAR: Then they hear the elevator chain start to move and the elevator starts to rise. Cinnabar screaming louder.
PEARL'S POV: As a moment later, the car stops and the doors open onto:
PEARL: ( still with her back to him ) Jimmy, you've got
BONES: I've got what I want. Turn around baby, look at me. Look at your man.
PEARL: We see what he's holding: the dress. Rotted and blood clotted and ruined.
BONES: I always loved you in this dress.
HER POV: The dress is brand new and beautiful. She's finally INT. THE SUB-BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS Patrick, Bill and Cinnabar have managed now to pry open the elevators outer doors. They step inside on the soft ashen ground and look up:
THEIR POV: The shaft goes all the way into eternity. But along the tacked walls, they see hand and footholds put there for
PATRICK: We can climb out.
BILL: Climb out to where?
PATRICK: Anywhere but here.
PEARL: Where are we, baby?
BONES: Where we'll always be.
PEARL: Hush, baby.
BONES: Hush, baby.
NEW ANGLE: After they catch their breath, they look up and around to find themselves
PATRICK: Is this Hell?
BILL: ( gripping the gun ) Or just Hell-adjacent.
CINNABAR: Ain't no Heaven. Ain't no Hell. There's just the world of the dead, my momma always talked about. Like she said, the door is open, and we're seeing right through our world into this one. We just have to remember what was really here. And follow it. Those stairs should take us to the second floor.
ANGLE AS: They start up the stairs into the darkness. Patrick first, Cinnabar in between him and Bill. Patrick still holding his flashlight, but it's starting to flicker a little. More of the same horror along the stairway walls, eyes looking at them, hands caress Cinnabar's hair, another hand shooting up from the stair floor and grabbing Bill's thigh. Bill stabs the hand with the knife on his belt. And the hands shoot back down.
BONES: Just like I told you this morning, I'd be stroking your neck tonight.
PATRICK: A faint sound: Patrick shaking the flashlight. Nothing but the sound of breathing, both human and non-human.
BILL: Maurice puts a finger to his lips and beckons them to follow. The boys want it to be Maurice. But Cinnabar knows better.
CINNABAR: That's not Maurice
PATRICK: Maurice. Hold up, man.
FLICKERING HORROR: As the dog leaps at them from the corner, all teeth and slavering jaws! Everyone scrambles for their lives, and the flashlight falls to the floor.
CINNABAR: I'm here.
PATRICK: Bill! Bill?!
CINNABAR: Patrick, he's.
PATRICK: Okay, okay. Listen:
CINNABAR: I can't find you.
PATRICK: Silence. As we expect the worse, expect something else to take her hand. But then:
CINNABAR: Is that you?
PATRICK: Yeah. Come on. Don't let go.
ANGLE AS: Pearl opens her dreaming eyes and sees them, smiling and beckoning Cinnabar to come join her. Cinnabar begins to. Patrick watches her until he hears something O.S. calling to him. It sounds a million miles away and yet right in his ear. And it sounds like Jeremiah.
JEREMIAH: appear or occur elsewhere in the final movie. In order to maintain the integrity of the screenplay, it has not been edited.
PATRICK'S POV: He turns and looks at the wall subtly surging from beneath the surface of the wall he sees flashes of faces and hands, mouths twisted in torment. He moves to the wall, drawn by the strange sight and the recurring sound.
INTERCUTTING: Now, while Cinnabar is advancing towards her mother and father across the room Patrick, at the wall, tries to place his ear near it in order to hear where the voice is coming from. While Cinnabar is now within Bones' reach. Pearl steps back to allow Jimmy to embrace Cinnabar. They're reunited.
BONES: Welcome home, baby girl.
JEREMIAH: Please.help me.
PATRICK: Suddenly something enormous presses out from the wall. Patrick stumbles back as his father's head and torso press out from the wall, stretched in straining effort.
JEREMIAH: Help me. I'm so sorry. But please, help Please. Help me. I'm scared.
PATRICK: Jeremiah, or what he's become embedded into the wall, his face stretched, mouth huge and hollow eyes dripping bloody Patrick in anguish.
JEREMIAH: Please. Help me. I'm scared.
PATRICK: As Patrick struggles and writhes and twists to get free from his father's grasp, he can see back across the room to the others. He sees the room as it really is - he can see what's really happening. Pearl, not in a new dress, but in a horrible tattered, blood encrusted old dress, standing next to a rotting cadaver that's stroking Cinnabar's cheek and holding her close. Jeremiah pulling Patrick into the wall, into the Necropolis itself. Patrick, though, just as concerned with Cinnabar as with himself, yelling at her across the crib.
PEARL: Pearl whirls and rips Cinnabar away from Bones, who at first sort of chuckles to himself. But he stops laughing when Pearl grabs the nearest candle and presses the flame to her breast. In a terrible whoosh, the dried old dress and Pearl are engulfed in flames.
BONES: Bones runs to Pearl and throws his arms around her, trying to smother the flames any way he can.
NOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!: Bones runs to Pearl and throws his arms around her, trying to smother the flames any way he can.
PEARL: ( to Patrick and Cinnabar ) Get out!!! Go!!!
ANGLE AS: Patrick and Cinnabar run down the corridor and back down the stairs, the moon overhead and the flames from Bones crib giving everything a flickering hellish cat. Everything behind and above them crumbling to dust. The floor and then the stairs and all the howling bodies trapped ON THE FIRST FLOOR They reach the open elevator shaft.
PATRICK: We gotta jump!
CINNABAR: I can't!
PATRICK: We have to!
LOOKING UP: He sees Cinnabar peering over the edge in fear. Then, behind her, he can hear a low rumbling growl. He sees Cinnabar turn and scream Ashes and falling debris then temporarily blind hen he wipes his eyes and looks up, Cinnabar is gone from view.
PATRICK: We made it.
END CREDITS: Writers : Adam Simon Tim Metcalfe
