THIRD DRAFT: April 2, 1990
TWO AIDES: try to lead Fallow into the building. Fallow is clutch- ing a whiskey decanter and a seltzer bottle. He leans heavily on the aides, stumbles and can barely stay on his A11B CONTINUED: A11B MINI CART approaches. The aides flag it down and throw Fallow onto the cart. The cart carries him past the garbage con- tainer into a long tunnel-like corridor.
MINI CART: approaches. The aides flag it down and throw Fallow onto the cart. The cart carries him past the garbage con- tainer into a long tunnel-like corridor.
FALLOW: sways on the cart, trying to mix a drink for himself he pulls a glass out of one pocket and some ice cubes out of another pocket. But he is physically incompetent.
FEMALE AIDE: jumps onto the cart and tries to hold him up. The male aide runs alongside the cart.
VARIOUS WAITERS: in black tie carry covered silver trays as they trot through the tunnel.
VARIOUS BUSBOYS: come running in the other way, pushing carts filled with dirty dishes and glasses.
CART: comes to the end of the tunnel and jerks to a halt. Fallow loses his balance and sprays the female aide with soda water.
MALE AIDE: pulls Fallow off the cart and continues to lead him through a dark, red-lit area. Several security guards run to meet them. The guards and the aide now escort Fallow through the area.
FOREIGN DIPLOMAT: and his wife and daughter join the entourage as they head for an elevator. The diplomat offers Fallow a pen and a book to autograph. Fallow misses the pen and falls face down into the breasts of the diplomat's daughter. The guards pull him into the elevator.
ELEVATOR DOORS: open. Fallow is led out of the elevator. Several other aides approach him and pull off his soiled jacket and shirt and change them for fresh ones as they move.
FALLOW: is led through the corridor and into.
WINTERGARDEN: A ten story glass atrium. A black tie party. A sixty- foot banner with Fallow's name on it. Wild applause. But before Fallow can get his bearings.
SHERMAN: Come on, Marshall. Come here. Stay. Come on. Stay.
SHERMAN: I am taking the dog for a walk.
JUDY: You are not taking the dog for a walk. You are taking 'Marshall' for a walk. Marshall has a name. He is one of our family. And, anyway, it's raining.
SHERMAN: I know that.
JUDY: So does Marshall. I don't think he wants to go. Do you, Marshall?
SHERMAN: Alright. Alright.
JUDY: Alright. Alright.
JUDY: Have a nice time.
DOORMAN: He don't look too happy about it, Mr. McCoy.
SHERMAN: Neither am I, Bill.
DOORMAN: Tony, sir. My name is Tony.
SHERMAN: Yes, of course. Come on, Marshall.
POLLARD: Hello, Sherman.
SHERMAN: Good evening, Pollard.
POLLARD: You know it's raining, don't you?
SHERMAN: Yes. As a matter of fact, I did Ah, Sherman. A true friend to man's best friend.
POLLARD: Ah, Sherman. A true friend to man's best friend.
SHERMAN: Pollard, you old phrase-maker.
POLLARD: I beg your pardon.
SHERMAN: I mean, is that the best you can do? Is that as witty as we get? I don't know what you're talking about. And furthermore, if you plan on being wet when you return, I suggest you take the service
POLLARD: I don't know what you're talking about. And furthermore, if you plan on being wet when you return, I suggest you take the service
SHERMAN: Maria! Hello. It's me.
SHERMAN: Oh. Sorry. May I speak to Maria?
SHERMAN: Brief pause, then.
JUDY: Sherman, is that you?
SHERMAN: 19 INT. McCOY APARTMENT - JUDY - NIGHT 19
SHERMAN: Well, you were right. I got soaking wet and Marshall didn't do
JUDY: Sherman, if you want to talk to somebody named Maria, why do you call me instead?
SHERMAN: If I what? Whatever do you mean?
JUDY: Please don't lie. It makes your forehead crinkle.
SHERMAN: About what? Wait a minute. What are we talking about?
JUDY: You should see your face. It's a veritable roadmap of tension and I'm sorry, but I don't get it. Have I missed something?
SHERMAN: I'm sorry, but I don't get it. Have I missed something?
JUDY: Darling, the only thing you're missing is common sense. You're going to stand there and tell me you didn't call here and ask to speak to some Maria?
SHERMAN: ( CONTINUED )
JUDY: You think I don't know your voice?
SHERMAN: Judy, I was out walking the dog. I was not on the telephone.
JUDY: Crinkle, crinkle, crinkle.
SHERMAN: I'm not lying. I took Marshal for a walk, and I come back in here and wham I mean I hardly know what to say. You're asking me to prove a negative proposition.
JUDY: 'Negative proposition'?! Oh, God, Sherman. Listen to the way I sound. Listen to the stress. Can you hear it? I don't want to be this person. I don't. I am thin. I am beautiful. I don't deserve There's the phone. Why don't you just call her from here? I don't care. I really don't care. You are cheap and rotten and a liar, and you are dripping on the Aubusson carpet.
SHERMAN: There's the phone. Why don't you just call her from here? I don't care. I really don't care. You are cheap and rotten and a liar, and you are dripping on the Aubusson carpet.
JUDY: There's the phone. Why don't you just call her from here? I don't care. I really don't care. You are cheap and rotten and a liar, and you are dripping on the Aubusson carpet.
SHERMAN: Campbell, honey. Are we ready?
CAMPBELL: I'm out of here.
SHERMAN: Slow down. Where's your mother?
CAMPBELL: She's crying on the lifecycle.
JUDY: She won't kiss me because I'm all Campbell, kiss your mother.
SHERMAN: Campbell, kiss your mother.
SHERMAN: But Judy walks away without speaking to him. Sherman watches her.
DOORMAN: 'Morning, Mr. McCoy.
SHERMAN: 'Morning, Tony.
DOORMAN: Bill, sir. My name is Bill.
SHERMAN: Yes, of course. Campbell, say hello to Tony.
CAMPBELL: Hi, Bill.
DOORMAN: 'Morning, Campbell.
ANOTHER MAN: If you can't see the goddamn screen, then I can't help you. If you can't see what the hell we're talking about, then what are we talking about?!
THIRD MAN: Well, then why do you think everybody's stripping the twenty
FOURTH MAN: Bid eight and a half. And then I want you to work hard on this, see what's happening with the escrow, do they forfeit or no?
SIXTH MAN: Look, look, look. Let me say this again so we're clear. I want the turkey rice soup. I don't want the chicken rice, I want the turkey I'm telling you somebody's painting you a fucking picture! Can't you see that?! I'm telling you to swap them. You got all this downside protection if the Jap market rallies. Just do it, do it, do it!
SEVENTH MAN: I'm telling you somebody's painting you a fucking picture! Can't you see that?! I'm telling you to swap them. You got all this downside protection if the Jap market rallies. Just do it, do it, do it!
SHERMAN: Maria, where are you? I've been trying to reach you for days. Please call me at the office. I have to speak to you.
RAWLIE: Gene's on from London. Let's go! Let's go!
SHERMAN: Calm down, Rawlie. Let's not get Yes, Sherman. Sorry.
RAWLIE: Yes, Sherman. Sorry.
SHERMAN: Calm. Cool. Colated. Let's not lose our composure over a few hundred million dollars.
RAWLIE: Jesus Christ, Sherman. You must be made of ice.
SHERMAN: Just remember, Rawlie. A frantic salesman is a dead one. A dead one, Rawlie.
SHERMAN: I need six hundred million to buy up the bonds.
SHERMAN: I'm confident on this, Gene. It's a real sleeping beauty.
RAWLIE: Where are you, Gene?
RAWLIE: Who's playing?
SHERMAN: What do you say, Gene. Are we in or out?
SHERMAN: Bernard Sachs is already in for three hundred million. Does that make you feel better?
SHERMAN: A rich old man, Gene. A rich old
SHERMAN: I guess you had to be there. Eh, Gene?
SHERMAN: At ease, gentlemen.
MARIA: Sherman, you are an absolute angel coming all the way out here.
SHERMAN: I had to talk to you. I did the most stupid thing last night.
MARIA: Oh, dear. Are we going to talk about it right now?
SHERMAN: Yes. We have to.
MARIA: Don't you want a little poon tang Maria. Please. This is important.
SHERMAN: Maria. Please. This is important.
MARIA: Alright. Tell mama all about it.
SHERMAN: I know it has its funny side but it isn't funny.
MARIA: Well, it's your own fault for getting caught like a red herring.
SHERMAN: You mean red-handed.
MARIA: That's what I said. Couldn't we just forget about your wife and go on over to our little hideaway on 59th Street and hide away a I think she knows.
SHERMAN: I think she knows.
MARIA: Well, of course she knows. That's not the point.
SHERMAN: It isn't?
MARIA: Oh, Sherman, honey. You are so sweet. I could eat you alive, if I could get this zipper down. Sherman, aren't we supposed to turn there?
SHERMAN: 42 HIS POV - SIGN 42
MARIA: Sherman, where are we?
SHERMAN: We're in the Bronx.
MARIA: What does that mean?
SHERMAN: It means we're going north. All I need to do is make a left and go west and find a street back to
MARIA: Yes, Maria.
SHERMAN: Yes, Maria.
MARIA: Where are all the white people?
SHERMAN: Christ. She's not touching the car, is she?
MARIA: Sherman, I'm from the South and I'm beginning not to like this very much.
SHERMAN: Excuse me, please don't touch the Sherman, get us out of here.
MARIA: Sherman, get us out of here.
SHERMAN: I have a red light.
YOUNG MAN: Hey, baby. We having a party?
SHERMAN: Drive, Sherman. Just drive.
MARIA: Drive, Sherman. Just drive.
SHERMAN: Look, there's no need to panic.
MARIA: That's what you think. I have all my luggage with me.
SHERMAN: I just don't want to do anything stupid. If we keep our heads, we'll be perfectly fine.
MARIA: Christ. We're in the middle of a goddamn war zone and you're worried about doing the right thing. Look! There!
MARIA: Sherman! What's that?!
MARIA: It's a body.
SHERMAN: It looks like.
MARIA: It's an animal.
SHERMAN: I think it's a.
MARIA: Is it dead?
SHERMAN: It's a wheel, that's all. It's a tire.
MARIA: It's a dead tire!
SHERMAN: Calm down, Maria. Please. It's a tire and some ash cans or
MARIA: What are you doing?!
SHERMAN: Well, I can't drive around it, can I?
MARIA: You're going to move it?
SHERMAN: Yes. That's exactly what I'm going to do.
MARIA: For God's sake, be careful of your
ROLAND: Yo! Need some help?
ROLAND: What happened, man? You need some No thanks. Hi. No, I don't think so. No. Thank you very much.
SHERMAN: No thanks. Hi. No, I don't think so. No. Thank you very much.
SHERMAN: Excuse me. I have to go.
ROLAND: Where you going with that tire?
SHERMAN: Oh. Is this yours? Here. You take it.
SHERMAN: Oh. Sorry. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to.
MARIA: Sherman, get in this car.
SHERMAN: Look out!
SHERMAN: Be careful. There's.
SHERMAN: I wonder if we should report this to the police.
MARIA: The police?
SHERMAN: I mean we were almost robbed and I think maybe it's possible you. we hit one of them. There was this kind of. There was this sound. Did you hear it? Like we hit one of them.
MARIA: Did you see him get hit?
SHERMAN: Neither did I. So if the question ever comes up, all that happened was, two boys blocked the road and tried to rob us and we got away. That's all we know.
MARIA: Neither did I. So if the question ever comes up, all that happened was, two boys blocked the road and tried to rob us and we got away. That's all we know.
SHERMAN: But if we called the police now.
MARIA: Yes, let's call them and invite them over here to our little love nest. They would love to get their hands on us. The police and the press and all the rest of the 'mediarites.'
SHERMAN: ( CONTINUED )
MARIA: Yes. Newspapers, radios, televisions. I can see it now. Mr. Sherman McCoy of Park Avenue and Mrs. Arthur Ruskin of Fifth Avenue, recuperating after their adventures in the Bronx explain that to your wife.
SHERMAN: Yes. You have a point.
SHERMAN: I'd just feel better if.
MARIA: You don't have to feel better, Sherman. I was the one who was driving. And I'm saying I didn't hit anybody, and I'm not reporting anything to the police! And if you are a gentleman, you will support me in that decision.
MARIA: ( very sexy now ) We were in the jungle. we were attacked. we fought our way It's true. We could have been We fought. I feel like an animal.
SHERMAN: It's true. We could have been We fought. I feel like an animal.
MARIA: We fought. I feel like an animal.
SHERMAN: You drove the hell out of that The hard part was getting into the seat, getting over that gear shift.
MARIA: The hard part was getting into the seat, getting over that gear shift.
SHERMAN: It was instinct.
MARIA: That tire.
SHERMAN: He was big. wasn't he?
MARIA: You were bigger, Sherman. You were great.
SHERMAN: We were both great.
MARIA: This could be the best sex we've had in a long time.
SHERMAN: I don't know. I still think.
MARIA: Don't think, Sherman. Don't think. Just fuck.
JUDGE WHITE: Where is Mister Son-nenberg?
JUDGE WHITE: Where the hell is Mister
JUDGE WHITE: Alright, Mr. Lockwood, you sit down. And if and when your lawyer deigns to favor us with his Two to six, Judge.
LOCKWOOD: Two weeks ago he told me two to Mr. Lockwood.
JUDGE WHITE: Mr. Lockwood.
LOCKWOOD: Two to six or we go to trial.
JUDGE WHITE: Nobody wants to go to trial, Mr. I'll go to trial.
LOCKWOOD: I'll go to trial.
JUDGE WHITE: Listen, you son of a bitch. You're a nice boy, you're young, you got a lot going for you. Try to understand me. We got 7,000 felony indictments in the Bronx every year. And we got room for 650 trials. And you are not going to be one of them.
LOCKWOOD: I go to trial.
JUDGE WHITE: You go sit down, that's what you go do! And when your asshole lawyer shows up, you're gonna take whatever plea bargain we give you and you're gonna kiss my ass and thank me that I didn't put you away for twenty-five years. Which, if this case ever did come to trial is exactly what you would get. Now get out of my face.
KRAMER: ( referring to Lockwood ) What did he do?
RAY: He pulled a knife on a seventy- year-old lady, robbed her, raped her and then shoved her in a garbage can.
KRAMER: ( laughs ) Welcome to the South Bronx.
RAY: ( laughs ) Welcome to the South Bronx.
CLERK: People versus Harold Williams. Indictment number 294721.
JUDGE WHITE: This case was dismissed three weeks ago.
RAY: ( to Kramer ) Go get him, tiger.
KRAMER: JUDGE WHITE
JUDGE WHITE: What is this case doing here?
KRAMER: May I approach the bench, Your Honor?
JUDGE WHITE: Who the hell are you?
KRAMER: Uh, Kramer, sir. Assistant You're new here, Mr. Kramer. Let me explain something to you. This case is what we call a piece of shit. Which means, loosely translated, that you have no Your Honor, the District Attorney, Mr. Weiss.
JUDGE WHITE: You're new here, Mr. Kramer. Let me explain something to you. This case is what we call a piece of shit. Which means, loosely translated, that you have no Your Honor, the District Attorney, Mr. Weiss.
KRAMER: Your Honor, the District Attorney, Mr. Weiss.
JUDGE WHITE: I know who the district attorney is. I know Mr. Weiss. And the only reason Mr. Weiss is interested in the case is because Mr. Williams over there is a white man who lives in a nice big house in Riverdale.
KRAMER: I don't follow, sir.
JUDGE WHITE: Because this is an election year. Because ninety-nine percent of the people you shovel through here are black and the other ninety-nine percent don't even speak English. But they do vote.
KRAMER: Yes, Your Honor.
JUDGE WHITE: So you go tell your boss, the district attorney, Captain Ahab Weiss that I know he's out there looking for the great white defendent. but Mr. Williams over there is not it.
RAY: ( sarcastic ) Don't take it personally.
KRAMER: Maybe he didn't like your shoes.
RAY: Maybe he didn't like your shoes.
GOLDBERG: Yeah. What?
RAY: Yeah. What?
MARTIN: I'm Martin. This is Detective Goldberg. We just come from Lincoln Hospital. You got a Yeah, what do you got?
RAY: Yeah, what do you got?
MARTIN: We got a kid named Henry Lamb, showed up at the hospital last night with a broken wrist.
RAY: So they fixed him up in the emergency room and they sent him So this morning his mother brings him back, he's got a concussion. He goes into a coma and now they classify him likely to die.
MARTIN: So they fixed him up in the emergency room and they sent him So this morning his mother brings him back, he's got a concussion. He goes into a coma and now they classify him likely to die.
RAY: So this morning his mother brings him back, he's got a concussion. He goes into a coma and now they classify him likely to die.
MARTIN: So this morning his mother brings him back, he's got a concussion. He goes into a coma and now they classify him likely to die.
KRAMER: You talked to him?
MARTIN: No. He was already out.
GOLDBERG: He's in a coma.
KRAMER: Oh, yeah.
MARTIN: No. There's a nurse there busting my balls. She says the kid told his mother he was hit by a car. A Mercedes. And the car left the Hit and run.
GOLDBERG: Hit and run.
KRAMER: The mother tell you this, too?
MARTIN: The mother won't talk to us. She's got a shitload of parking tickets and she doesn't want to talk to the police.
RAY: So why are you coming to us? You got a victim who's unconscious, you got no witness, no driver you got what we call here a piece of shit. Ain't that right, Mr.
MARTIN: What we got here is a problem.
GOLDBERG: You ever hear of Reverend Bacon?
RAY: Oh, no. Not me. Kramer, this is all yours. I'll see you gentlemen
BACON: This is a tragedy. A fine young man has been struck down. God- fearing, church-going, never in trouble, graduating from high school, ready for college and somebody comes along some rich white people in a rich white man's car and wham! They run him down and never even stop. Now what are we going to do about these parking
KRAMER: Well, uh. first of all, Reverend . Is it Reverend?
BACON: Is, was, and always will be.
KRAMER: First of all, Reverend, we have no evidence of.
BACON: This is your evidence.
KRAMER: Oh, sorry, ma'am. I didn't see.
BACON: Mrs. Lamb is not speaking to the police. Until we have proper counsel, I will speak for her.
KRAMER: Alright, then. Let me see if I have this straight. The boy was hit by a car.
BACON: On Bruckner Boulevard. Innocently walking along, minding his own business. A clear case of No, Reverend. I'm sorry. But you see, you have no witness. Without a witness, there's no case of anything at all.
KRAMER: No, Reverend. I'm sorry. But you see, you have no witness. Without a witness, there's no case of anything at all.
BACON: You got what he told his mother.
KRAMER: That's hearsay. You may believe it and I may believe it, but it's not admissable in a court of law.
BACON: If this boy was born on Park Avenue and he was run down by two niggers in a Pontiac Firebird, then you'd have a case! Wouldn't you?!
MARTIN: I work Park Avenue and I work Bruckner Boulevard, Reverend. There's good and bad in both places. Now we'll do everything we can for this lady. But we don't have a hell of a lot to go on.
BACON: Gentlemen, I want you to make an investment here. An investment in steam control.
KRAMER: Steam control?
BACON: That's right. Steam control. Because a righteous steam is building up in the souls of my people and that steam is ready to blow.
KRAMER: I see. Well.
BACON: Now, on judgment day, I am your safety valve. Because when it blows and it will, my friend how grateful you will be that I am on your side the one nigger who can control the steam and save your lily white ass from being burned off the face of the earth so to speak.
KRAMER: You think this car was driven by a white man, huh?
BACON: I seldom think. I just plain Well, Reverend. I'll see what I can do.
KRAMER: Well, Reverend. I'll see what I can do.
BACON: The next time you gentlemen hear from us, it will be through our
MRS. LAMB: He said it started with an 'R.' That was the first letter. The second letter was an 'E' or a 'B' or maybe a 'P.' Those were the first two letters of the license plate. If that's any help to you.
SHERMAN: We should move out here.
SHERMAN: Have you ever thought, I mean, what if we moved out of New York? What do you think?
JUDY: About what?
SHERMAN: Do you think we could leave New My father did it.
JUDY: My father did it.
SHERMAN: My father did it.
JDUY: You are not your father.
JUDY: Sherman, what are you looking for in that newspaper?
SHERMAN: Nothing. I. uh. no, nothing But what's a bond? Oh, yes, Sherman, do explain it. Yes. Your mother and I really want to hear this, Sherman.
CAMPBELL: But what's a bond? Oh, yes, Sherman, do explain it. Yes. Your mother and I really want to hear this, Sherman.
SHERMAN: A bond is a way of lending people money. Let's say you want to build a road or a hospital and you need a lot of money. Well, you issue a bond.
CAMPBELL: Do you build roads?
SHERMAN: No, I don't actually build them. I think you're in over your head.
JUDY: Here. Let me try. Darling, Daddy doesn't build roads or hospitals or anything, really. Daddy just handles the bonds for the people who raise the money.
CAMPBELL: That's what he said. Bonds.
JUDY: Yes. See, just imagine that a bond is a slice of cake. Now you didn't bake that cake, but every time you hand somebody a slice of that cake, a little bit comes off, little crumbs fall off. And you're allowed to keep those crumbs.
SHERMAN: Crumbs? Really. And many a man has sold his soul for those little crumbs.
JUDY: ( enjoying this ) Yes. And that's what Daddy does. He passes somebody else's cake around and picks up the crumbs. But you have to imagine a lot of crumbs. And a great golden cake. And a lot of golden crumbs. And you have to imagine Daddy running around picking up every little golden crumb he can get his hands on. That's what Daddy does.
SHERMAN: Well, you can call them crumbs if you want to.
JUDY: That's the best I can do. Excuse Of course, in my day, there was some integrity to it.
SHERMAN: Yes. Well. Now it's not about anything, is it? Except the money.
SHERMAN: I don't make the rules. All the more reason not to play the game.
SHERMAN: We're having a little. It's nothing serious. Really.
NIGHT: Peter's face is flat on the bar. He looks bad drunk, out of shape, disheveled and probably unclean.
PETER: Caroline. You devil. Come and have a drink with us.
CAROLINE: Peter. You pig. I'm with someone.
PETER: Yes. And a very pretty someone he is, too.
CAROLINE: ( introducing them ) This is Filippo Chirazzi, the artist. This is Peter Fallow, the has-been.
PETER: Enchante. We're a little crowded.
CAROLINE: No thanks, Peter. The last time I sat on your face, I ended up with a yeast infection.
MOORE: Good evening, Peter.
PETER: ( shocked ) Gerald. Well. Hello.
MOORE: No, don't get up. You know my daughter, don't you?
PETER: Yes. Evelyn. How are you?
EVELYN: ( to Eveyln ) This is one of my invisible employees. One of the many journalists who are supposed to be writing for my newspaper. You're very fortunate to see him because I hardly ever do.
MOORE: ( to Eveyln ) This is one of my invisible employees. One of the many journalists who are supposed to be writing for my newspaper. You're very fortunate to see him because I hardly ever do.
PETER: Gerald, have a drink. Please, I can explain.
MOORE: Thanks, no. We're having a private little dinner in the back.
PETER: Ah. Yes. Well.
MOORE: You know, I was at a dinner party last night. And in the middle of the pudding, this four-year-old child came in pulling a toy wagon around the table and on the wagon was a fresh turd. Her own, I suppose. And the parents just shook their heads and smiled.
PETER: I've made a big investment in you, Peter. Time and money. And it's not working. Now I could just shake my head and smile. But in my house, when a turd appears, we deal with it. We dispose of it. We flush it away. We don't put it on the table and call it caviar.
MOORE: I've made a big investment in you, Peter. Time and money. And it's not working. Now I could just shake my head and smile. But in my house, when a turd appears, we deal with it. We dispose of it. We flush it away. We don't put it on the table and call it caviar.
PETER: I see. Yes. Yes, of course. Well, I am on to something right now. and I think I've got. it's just a matter of. this is something that is really going to break open!
MOORE: I sincerely hope so, Fallow. I sincerely hope so. Come, Evelyn.
PETER: Hello? Peter Fallow speaking.
FOX: Peter? Albert Fox. Yeah. You sound terrific. Any pulse? Ha. Ha! I called the office, but nobody seemed to know where you were or even who you were. Anything I should know?
PETER: Nothing to know, I'm working at home today, that's all.
FOX: Good, good, good. I got something I want to talk to you about, Peter. I think there's a hell of a story in it.
ALBERT: . and the cause of these little people will always be dear to my heart, whether it be discrimination or job security or simply the right to have urinals at the proper height so that accidents like this do not happen.
JENNIFER: Have you ever thought of giving up the law and becoming an actor?
ALBERT: I am an actor.
JACK: And a damn good one too.
ALBERT: Well, thank you.
ALBERT: When the rights of any people are threatened no matter how big or how small Albert Fox will always be on the case.
DOCTOR: Your help is greatly appreciated, Albert. Not only by us but by all Americans.
FOX: ( approaching ) Cute, aren't they?
PETER: Uh. yes.
FOX: And they weigh a ton. You want a drink? You look like you could use one.
PETER: No. No. No. No. No. Thanks.
ASSISTANT: Do you want to cancel City No. I got to do it. It's For one thing, it's the only place I can still get laid. These girls all want to sleep with their fathers. And if you're old and famous, and you know how to use a condom they'll fuck your brains out.
FOX: No. I got to do it. It's For one thing, it's the only place I can still get laid. These girls all want to sleep with their fathers. And if you're old and famous, and you know how to use a condom they'll fuck your brains out.
FOX: You look at the Henry Lamb Well, yeah, but. Look, it's an unfortunate situation. But I'm not altogether sure there's a story in it.
PETER: Well, yeah, but. Look, it's an unfortunate situation. But I'm not altogether sure there's a story in it.
FOX: A poor, innocent black kid, walking down the street, minding his own business. And boom! Hit and run. There's a story in it for somebody, Peter. The black community is up in arms. And I'm telling you, when Reverend Bacon gets a feather in his ass, the shit flies high.
PETER: I see. Yes, but what's your interest exactly?
FOX: I'm a lawyer, Peter. I want to see justice done. That's all. And, of course, Reverend Bacon is a friend of mine. This would be good for him. And knowing a little about your situation, I thought if you were the one to break the story.
PETER: My situation?
FOX: Your boss was at my house for dinner the other night. He said a few things.
PETER: I see.
PETER: Do you have a daughter?
FOX: Yes. I do. A little girl.
PETER: Does she have a little toy wagon?
FOX: Yes. I think she does. Yes. Why?
PETER: I'll have a Scotch and water.
FOX: Good. Good. Get in.
ASSISTANT: You'll read all about it in the newspapers. Come on. Let's do R.E., R.P. and R.B. and see what we get.
RIFKIN: Henry Lamb? Who's that?
PETER: He was a student of yours at Ruppert High. In your English He was? What's he done?
RIFKIN: He was? What's he done?
PETER: He was seriously injured. I'm a journalist. I write for a Oh. I don't remember him.
RIFKIN: Oh. I don't remember him.
PETER: What I would like to find out is what kind of student he was.
RIFKIN: Well, if I don't remember him, I guess he was okay.
PETER: Would you say he was a 'good' 'Good' doesn't really apply to Ruppert High. They're either cooperative or life-threatening. There's no in-between.
RIFKIN: 'Good' doesn't really apply to Ruppert High. They're either cooperative or life-threatening. There's no in-between.
PETER: His mother says he was considering going to college.
RIFKIN: Well, she means City College. They have an open admissions policy. So, if you live in the city and you graduate from high school and you're still breathing, they have to take you.
PETER: Well, is there anything at all you can tell me about his performance or aptitude anything at all?
RIFKIN: Look, Mr.?
PETER: I got sixty-five students in every class.
RIFKIN: I got sixty-five students in every class.
PETER: Do you have any of his written Oh, Jesus, there hasn't been any written work at Ruppert High since. oh, fifteen years. Maybe twenty.
RIFKIN: Oh, Jesus, there hasn't been any written work at Ruppert High since. oh, fifteen years. Maybe twenty.
PETER: Well, there must be some record of how he measures up to the No. See, you're thinking about grades and honor students and high achievers. We don't make those kinds of comparisons. We're just trying to keep them off the street. At Ruppert High, an honor student is somebody who comes to class and doesn't piss on the Well, by that standard, is Henry Lamb an honors student?
RIFKIN: No. See, you're thinking about grades and honor students and high achievers. We don't make those kinds of comparisons. We're just trying to keep them off the street. At Ruppert High, an honor student is somebody who comes to class and doesn't piss on the Well, by that standard, is Henry Lamb an honors student?
PETER: ( pauses; then ) Well, by that standard, is Henry Lamb an honors student?
RIFKIN: Well, he never pissed on me. So by that standard, yes. I guess he must be.
DAY: HONOR STUDENT IN COMA COPS SIT ON HIT AND RUN
SHERMAN: ( on phone ) . The franc is no problem. We can hedge that to next January or to term or both.
SHERMAN: ( on phone ) No. I don't think that's
SHERMAN: ( on phone ) Look, Bernard. uh, we've had a few minor hell, they're not even problems. So let's not get ourselves whipped up into a-a-a coma. Jesus Christ! No, not you, Bernard. Felix, let me see that
SHERMAN: ( on phone ) 'Wait'? What do you mean, 'wait'?! What the hell are you talking about? Now you listen to me, Bernard. We can't wait! We've got to move now! You're raising phantom issues here. It doesn't matter what happens to gold and francs on a day-to-day basis! We've got to pull ourselves together and just fucking do it!! Look, Bernard. I'm sorry. No. Wait a minute. Wait, Bernard. Bernard! Don't leave me! Don't leave me!
MARIA: Sherman, darling. I was just thinking about you. Where have you been?
SHERMAN: ( showing her the Have you seen this? Have you seen this perversion of the truth?
MARIA: Don't I get a kiss first?
SHERMAN: Have you read it?
MARIA: Oh, Sherman, you know I only read the newspapers spasmodically.
SHERMAN: Sporatically, Maria. Sporatically.
MARIA: Yes. Me, too. Now come on in and have a drink. I know just what you need.
SHERMAN: Absolutely wrong! All of it. And who is this Peter Fallow? He has everything wrong. They don't even mention the other boy. And what about the ramp and the tire?! They're talking about a little saint here who was on his way to get milk and cookies for his widowed mother.
MARIA: Excuse me, but what is going on We're putting in a new intercom system. All the apartments. The super let me in. Are you.
WORKMAN: We're putting in a new intercom system. All the apartments. The super let me in. Are you.
MARIA: Well, uh. I don't live here. I'm just a guest of Miss Heftshank. Okay. No problem. I'm all done.
WORKMAN: Okay. No problem. I'm all done.
MARIA: Christ. That was close.
SHERMAN: What's going on?
MARIA: Nothing. Caroline pays $351 for this place. It's rent controlled. I sublet it for eleven hundred a month. But it's not legal. They would love to get Caroline out of here. But they have to prove she doesn't live here.
SHERMAN: You don't think it's weird this fellow showed up today. After that unconscionable piece in the Oh, Sherman. You are completely paranoidical. Look, I have to leave for the airport in twenty minutes. So we don't have much You don't think they could possibly trace the car to me?
MARIA: Oh, Sherman. You are completely paranoidical. Look, I have to leave for the airport in twenty minutes. So we don't have much You don't think they could possibly trace the car to me?
SHERMAN: You don't think they could possibly trace the car to me?
MARIA: How? They don't have the full number, they don't have a witness, and the only one who could recognize you is in terminal Right. There is the other boy, however. Suppose he came forward.
SHERMAN: Right. There is the other boy, however. Suppose he came forward.
MARIA: If he was gonna materialize, he would have done it by now. And the reason he hasn't, is because he's a criminal. Would you get my blue jacket out of that closet?
SHERMAN: What a wretched painting.
MARIA: Filippo Chirazzi. He's a friend of Caroline. Do you know him?
SHERMAN: I hope not. God, Maria, it looks like you.
MARIA: No. No. How could it be? Come on, give me a hand. I'm taking it with me.
SHERMAN: Where are you going?
MARIA: The airport. I told you. I have a car coming in oh, God, ten minutes. We have time for a quickie. What do you say?
SHERMAN: I'm upset, Maria. I just lost 600 million dollars. And possibly my job. I don't feel terrifically sexy at the moment.
MARIA: You know I'm a sucker for a soft Maria, you are incorrigible.
SHERMAN: Maria, you are incorrigible.
MARIA: Am I?
SHERMAN: I suppose we could still go to the police. We could get a very talented lawyer.
MARIA: And put our heads right into the horse's mouth? I'm the one who was driving the car. Don't you think I'm the one who should make the decision? And I say, no. No, Sherman. Trust me. Nothing is going to come of this little newspaper article. Absolutely
PETER: Peter Fallow, from City Light.
PETER: Where are all the people?
BUCK: They'll be here. Soon as they see the tower. Reva! Give this man the release.
REVA: Ohhh. There's Robert Corsaro!
PETER: Peter Fallow, City Light.
CORSARO: Oh, you're the reason we're up in this godforsaken place. You and your little newspaper article.
PETER: Sorry about that.
BACON: Mr. Fallow. Our hero. I feel as if we already know each other. And Mr. Corsaro. You have an exclusive here. You understand me? I could have had every newspaper and T.V. station spreading this news thinly, too thinly across the airways. But I have chosen only you two. And I expect big coverage, in-depth Well, then let's get to work.
CORSARO: ( going back to Well, then let's get to work.
PETER: Look, Reverend, aren't you afraid we may be trying to make a mountain out of a mole hill here? I mean, Honesty has nothing to do with this, Mr. Fallow. This is show business. And I've never known the two to go hand in hand.
BACON: Honesty has nothing to do with this, Mr. Fallow. This is show business. And I've never known the two to go hand in hand.
PETER: Well, I am a journalist.
BACON: You're a drunk, Mr. Fallow. That's what I've been told. And you're almost out of a job. Aren't you? Or am I misinformed?
PETER: I think maybe you've got the wrong man, here.
BACON: Oh, I don't think so. I don't think so at all. Get with the program, Mr. Fallow, you may have been a knight in shining armour back in Kansas. But this is New York City. And I'm telling you, when you come to work in a whore house, there's only one thing you want to be and that's the best whore in the house.
CORSARO: We're about ready here.
BACON: Brothers and sisters. I stand before you with a heart that is broken. And I stand before you with a heart that is angry. Heart broken because our brother, our neighbor, our son, Henry Lamb has been stuck down in the prime of his young life. And now he lies in a hospital, broken like my heart. But my heart is also angry. Angry because the driver of that car did nothing for him! And neither did the police. And neither did this man Mr. Abraham Weiss.
BACON: This man has turned his back on Henry Lamb. And I, for one, am not going to stand for it. No
CORSARO: He's something, isn't he?
PETER: Yes. He certainly is.
CORSARO: But, listen, he's on the level with this one, isn't he? I mean this is a legitimate story.
PETER: Oh. Yes. Sure. Yes.
CORSARO: I mean this Henry Lamb is. was . is a nice kid. No record, neighbors seem to like him, an honor student.
PETER: No question about it.
CORSARO: Because, well, I don't give a shit, but he's gonna be a saint by the time we get through with him. So it would be good if it were true. You know?
ANNIE: Justice! Justice! Justice!
WEISS: Look at this shit! Look at it! They're throwing shit right in my face!
WEISS: That's my name. That's my own fucking name.
KRAMER: This is a fuck-up.
WEISS: Who the hell are you?
KRAMER: Kramer, sir. I'm.
WEISS: ( reacts ) Now they've got Albert Fox with
WEISS: And how did they get this information out of Motor Vehicle? Whose side are they on?!
RAY: Calm down, Abe. We had this information a week ago.
WEISS: Then why aren't we doing anything? Why aren't we tracing the car? What am I, the Wizard of Oz, I don't know anything!?
RAY: Trace the car, what for? We don't have a witness. We don't even know where it happened. We don't even know if it happened.
WEISS: Trace the car, Ray.
RAY: We don't have a case, even if we find the car. Even if we find the owner and the owner says, oh, yeah, gee, yeah, I hit this kid, yeah, the other night, and yeah I didn't stop and I didn't report it. I did it. I did it. Then we have a case.
WEISS: Just trace the fucking car. Yesterday I was a respected Jewish liberal. Ten minutes of news like this and all of a sudden I'm a hymie racist pig.
WEISS: Yesterday I was a respected Jewish liberal. Ten minutes of news like this and all of a sudden I'm a hymie racist pig.
WEISS: The Italians will love this, the Irish, too. And the Wasps. They love this shit more than anybody. They love laughing at me. And they won't even know what they're laughing at.
WEISS: All the rich sons of bitches. They still think they own this city. They sit in their co-ops, Park Avenue, Fifth, Beekman Place, snug like a bug, twelve-foot ceilings, one wing for them, one for the help. They think money is going to protect them? Stupid sons of bitches. I'd like to light a bonfire under all their lily-white asses. Let them see what this feels like. Let the whole Third World see the smoke and come after them. Let them feel what it's like when every Puerto Rican, West Indian, Cuban, Korean, Chinese, Albanian, Filippino, black man from every corner of every borough you don't think the future knows how to cross a bridge? You laugh. You laugh. Alright. Now this is what we're going to do. We're going to turn this thing around. If it kills us. We're going to prove to these black motherfuckers excuse my language, Howard.
WEISS: We're going to prove to these niggers that this administration loves them.
DOORMAN: Ah. Mr. McCoy.
SHERMAN: Hello, Tony.
DOORMAN: Eddie, sir.
SHERMAN: Right. What's.
DOORMAN: These gentlemen.
MARTIN: Sorry to bother you. I'm Detective Martin. This is Detective Goldberg. We're investigating an automobile accident. Maybe you heard about
SHERMAN: Oh, yes, yeah. On television. Last night. We said my wife said, 'Good Lord, we have a Mercedes and the license starts with an R.'
MARTIN: You and a lotta people.
SHERMAN: Oh, really?
DOORMAN: Are you going up, sir?
SHERMAN: Ah. Well. Yes. Sure. Would you.? Do you.?
MARTIN: Is this a bad time?
SHERMAN: No. No. Not at all. Come up. We just need to ask a few Sure. Yes. Go ahead.
MARTIN: We just need to ask a few Sure. Yes. Go ahead.
SHERMAN: Sure. Yes. Go ahead.
MARTIN: So. Let's see. Can you tell us if your car was in use the night this happened?
SHERMAN: When exactly was it?
MARTIN: Tuesday a week ago.
SHERMAN: I don't know. Let me think. I'd have to figure.
MARTIN: Anybody else use your car?
SHERMAN: My wife. Sometimes. And the people at the garage.
MARTIN: Parking garage.
SHERMAN: You leave the car with the keys and they park it.
MARTIN: You leave the car with the keys and they park it.
SHERMAN: Well. yes.
MARTIN: Could we go there and take a look at it?
SHERMAN: The car?
MARTIN: Soon as we leave here. We could take a look. There's things that's consistent with an incident like this. We don't find those things, we move on down the list. And we're out of your hair.
SHERMAN: Soon as we leave here. We could take a look. There's things that's consistent with an incident like this. We don't find those things, we move on down the list. And we're out of your hair.
MARTIN: Soon as we leave here. We could take a look. There's things that's consistent with an incident like this. We don't find those things, we move on down the list. And we're out of your hair.
SHERMAN: So you want to take a look at the car then.
MARTIN: I see.
SHERMAN: I see.
MARTIN: We don't have a description of a driver. So we gotta look for the car. And that means bothering a lot of innocent people. We're sorry about the inconvenience. But it's a routine sort of thing.
SHERMAN: I understand. But if it is a routine, well, I should, I guess I ought to. well, follow the routine that's appropriate to me, to someone with a car in this situation. You see?
MARTIN: No. I don't follow.
SHERMAN: Well, I mean, if you have a routine in an investigation like this I don't know how these things work, but there must also be a routine for a person like me, an owner of a car with a license number I think that's what I need to consider. The routine.
MARTIN: We just want to look at the car.
SHERMAN: That's what I mean. You see?
MARTIN: Excuse me, Mr. McCoy. But is there something you want to tell us?
GOLDBERG: Excuse me, Mr. McCoy. But is there something you want to tell us?
SHERMAN: Well, I. how do you mean?
GOLDBERG: Because, if there is, now is the time to tell us. Before things get complicated.
SHERMAN: No. I just think. I think that, just to be sure, certain, safe. I think.
GOLDBERG: Let me put it this way, if you want to cooperate, that's great. If you have reasons for not cooperating, then I should tell you that you don't have to say anything. That's your right. If you want, you can say nothing at all. You also have the right to an attorney. I mean, for that matter, if you lacked the 'funds' for an attorney, the state would provide you with one free of charge. If that's what you
SHERMAN: Well, look. I guess what I should do is, I should. I should talk this over with an attorney.
EVENING: is moving fast as he talks with Martin and Goldberg.
GOLDBERG: . But mainly, it's the look on his face. Ain't that the truth, Yeah. All of sudden, the bitch starts coming out of him.
MARTIN: Yeah. All of sudden, the bitch starts coming out of him.
GOLDBERG: So I read him his rights as casual as I can do it.
MARTIN: And then he sits down on the guy's What'd he do?
KRAMER: What'd he do?
GOLDBERG: Nothin' at first. But he's confused. And his eyes are getting bigger and he's double-talking like a son of a bitch. I'm thinking there's something there.
KRAMER: I think we got him.
WEISS: Got who? What do you got?
GOLDBERG: McCoy. Sherman McCoy. We got him.
KRAMER: McCoy. Sherman McCoy. We got him.
WEISS: You think it's him?
MARTIN: Well, we think so, yeah, but.
KRAMER: It's him. We got him. This guy is Park Avenue. His old man ran Dunning, Sponget and Leach. He's got his name in the columns. His wife is a fucking socialite.
WEISS: Does this put an end to this white justice shit?
RAY: Abe. We got zip on this guy. Fucking zip.
KRAMER: I think he's the type we could smoke out. Bring him in for questioning. Go public.
RAY: Go public?! You got nothing here. Your only witness is in a hospital likely to die. Don't listen to this shit, Abe. You got to get to Manhattan. You got a speech to make.
KRAMER: I'll tell you what you got to do, sir. You've got to send a signal out to the poor people of this city. You got to let them know that justice is blind. You got to let them know that if you're white and rich, you get the same treatment you get when you're black and poor. You got to give people hope!
WEISS: You mean, we nail the wasp.
KRAMER: To the wall.
WEISS: I like this man. I like him. Look. What's the kid's condition? Any chance he'll regain What if he does? He can't talk. He's breathing from a tube down his throat.
RAY: What if he does? He can't talk. He's breathing from a tube down his throat.
WEISS: No. But maybe he can point.
RAY: ( CONTINUED )
WEISS: Yeah. I got an idea. We take a picture of Sherman McCoy over to the hospital, to this kid. And three or four other guys, white guys, and we put them by the bed, the pictures. And the kid comes to. and he points to McCoy's picture. And he keeps pointing.
KRAMER: Might work. That might work. It's a long shot, but it might work.
AIDE: Mr. Kramer?
KRAMER: Yeah? What do you want?
RAY: ( to Weiss ) You'll kill him. He wakes up out of a coma and sees four white men in suits and ties staring at him from the end of the bed, he'll shit and die.
WEISS: It's worth a try.
RAY: I don't believe what I'm hearing! Some poor gook with a tube down his throat pointing at a picture. That's your case?! It's never gonna stand up.
WEISS: ( screams ) I know that, Ray. I know that. I just want to bring the guy in! Just bring him in. That's all. We get the press. We get the attention. Then we can relax and do the right thing.
RAY: Look at me, Abe. Watch my mouth. Read my lips. No. We cannot do that. No way.
KRAMER: I think we got a witness.
WEISS: ( shouting over What?! What?!!
KRAMER: I think we got a mother-fucking
HAYDEN: . So I walk up to him and I say, hello, I'm from Legal Aid, I'm your lawyer. And he says, 'Fuck you, mother. I don't want no nigger lawyer. I want a Jew.'
KRAMER: Nice guy.
HAYDEN: This is his third drug arrest. He wants a deal.
KRAMER: And he'll say he was there, at the scene?
HAYDEN: He'll say whatever you want him to say.
KILLIAN: I'm telling you, they got nothing on you, Mr. McCoy. Get me Andruitti over in the Bronx. Tell him it's urgent about this Henry Lamb shit.
SHERMAN: But suppose the other fellow comes forward. I swear there was another one. He was big.
KILLIAN: I believe you. It was a set-up. They were going to take you off. Sounds to me like he's got good reasons not to come forward. You just sit tight. That's what you
SHERMAN: Look, you were recommended as the best criminal lawyer around. I'm not disagreeing with you. But I didn't come here to. I mean, I want to pre-empt this whole situation. I don't want it to go any further.
KILLIAN: What does that mean?
SHERMAN: It means I want to take the initiative. I want to go to the police with Maria Mrs. Ruskin and just tell them exactly what happened. I mean, I don't know about the law, but I feel morally certain that we did what was right in the situation we were in. And I don't see.
KILLIAN: Ayyyy! You Wall Street honchos are real gamblers. Ayyy! Whaddaya whaddaya! They would devour you. They would eat you But why?
SHERMAN: But why?
KILLIAN: Forget it's already a political football. Forget the T.V. and Reverend Bacon and Weiss has an election coming up. Forget that and remember that when you work in the D.A.'s office and every day you prosecute people with names like Tiffany Latour and Sancho Rodriguez and Chong Wong and Shabazz Kazan Tamali, you are dying to get your hands on a nice white couple like you and Mrs. Ruskin. Biscuit city, ehhh! You open your mouth and they will arrest you. And they will make a big show out of arresting you. And it will be very unpleasant.
KILLIAN: That is guaranteed. Believe me, you do not want to be arrested in the South Bronx. Yeah. Oh. Put him on. Yeah? I'll hold. I need to talk to your friend, Mrs. Ruskin, too.
SHERMAN: I understand you went to Yale.
KILLIAN: Yeah. You, too. Huh?
SHERMAN: What did you think of it?
KILLIAN: It was okay. As law schools go. They give you the scholarly view. You know. It's terrific for anything you want to do as long as it doesn't involve real Hey, Andruitti, you guinea, how are you? Yeah. Well, I'm sitting here with Sherman McCoy. Yeah. That's right. Well, I don't know if he needs a lawyer. What do you Uh-huh. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So what does that mean? Okay. Yeah. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
KILLIAN: We got a problem.
SHERMAN: What? What is it?
KILLIAN: They're going to arrest you.
JUDY: Tell him to wait. We'll be right down.
SHERMAN: ( on phone ) I know it was six hundred million, Rawlie. Just stop saying it. I'll straighten it out with Gene first thing in the morning. Well, not first thing. I have a previous appointment.
JUDY: ( overlapping ) Sherman. Please. What is the matter with you? You're not even dressed and the car is already What? What car? ( on phone ) No, Rawlie, I can't change it.
SHERMAN: What? What car? No, Rawlie, I can't change it.
JUDY: Leon and Inez Bavardage. They are taking us to the opera. Eight o'clock. Tonight. And the car is Rawlie, I'll call you later. Just stay calm. But why do we need a car? They only live six blocks from here.
SHERMAN: Rawlie, I'll call you later. Just stay calm. But why do we need a car? They only live six blocks from here.
JUDY: Because after the opera we're going to the museum for the Benefit.
SHERMAN: We could walk.
JUDY: I can't walk down the street in this dress. A small wind would turn me into a kite.
SHERMAN: Then let's take a taxi.
JUDY: Why are we having this conversation?
SHERMAN: Because a car is going to take us six blocks and wait there for five and a half hours and then drive us another six blocks home and it is going to cost us three hundred and forty-six dollars?! We are hemorrhaging money, Judy. It is pouring out of us with every beat of our heart. Isn't that worth talking about?!?
JUDY: You're right. It might be cheaper in the long run to hire a permanent chauffeur.
SHERMAN: Judy, please.
JUDY: We'll talk about it later.
SHERMAN: We have to talk now.
JUDY: We can't hire a chauffeur in the next fifteen minutes.
SHERMAN: We haven't talked about anything for the last three weeks.
JUDY: Well there's no reason to start Yes, there is. Something is happening here. You have to know about this. Tomorrow Sherman, this is a very important evening. It will determine whether or not I will be chairman of the museum benefit this year. I cannot be upset now. We can talk about it later.
SHERMAN: Yes, there is. Something is happening here. You have to know about this. Tomorrow Sherman, this is a very important evening. It will determine whether or not I will be chairman of the museum benefit this year. I cannot be upset now. We can talk about it later.
JUDY: Sherman, this is a very important evening. It will determine whether or not I will be chairman of the museum benefit this year. I cannot be upset now. We can talk about it later.
SHERMAN: I'm going to be arrested in the Really, Sherman, you'd do anything to ruin this for me. Wouldn't you? Now please. Get dressed.
JUDY: Really, Sherman, you'd do anything to ruin this for me. Wouldn't you? Now please. Get dressed.
JUDY: 190 ANGLE - STAGE 190
SALLY: You're Judy McCoy's husband.
SHERMAN: Uh. Yes.
SALLY: I'm in real estate. And, darling, I've seen your apartment. Any time you even think about selling.
SHERMAN: Well, it's unlikely.
SALLY: Have you met Aubrey Buffing the poet? He's on the short list for the Nobel Prize.
SHERMAN: ( shakes hands Ah. Hello.
SALLY: He has AIDS.
SHERMAN: We were talking about the opera.
SALLY: We were talking about the opera.
AUBREY: ( holding on to 'The wrath of heaven must be at hand, its justice will not tarry. I see the deadly thunderbolt poised above his head! I see the fatal abyss open before him.'
SHERMAN: Excuse me.
ARTHUR: . My wife lives on airplanes. She goes back and forth to Italy like a Ping-Pong ball. She took a house on Lake Como. She's crazy now all of a sudden for anything
SHERMAN: Uh. Judy.
JUDY: Sherman! Have you met Bobby Shalfet, from the opera? And Nunnally Voyd oh, and Arthur Ruskin and his wife Maria.
SHERMAN: Well, hi.
BOBBY: And what do you do, Mr. McCoy?
SHERMAN: Well, the only bonds I know about are bail bonds.
BOBBY: Well, the only bonds I know about are bail bonds.
SHERMAN: Well, the only bonds I know about are bail bonds.
BOBBY: Well, the only bonds I know about are bail bonds.
BOBBY: I was arrested last year in Montreal for pissing on a tree.
JUDY: Sherman, couldn't you try just once, to be a little bit interesting.
SHERMAN: I want you to meet Aubrey Buffing.
JUDY: The poet. He's on the short list for the Nobel Prize. He has AIDS. You'll love him.
SHERMAN: The poet. He's on the short list for the Nobel Prize. He has AIDS. You'll love him.
JUDY: Sherman, we are alone in the middle of the room. A married couple, talking to each other. You simply don't do this. Now go and mingle.
AUBREY: And even when repentence is offered, he refuses. He refuses to deny his life. The food, the drink, the flesh fatal as they may be he cannot resist them.
MARIA: Sherman! We have to stop meeting like this. Do you know Boris, the ballet dancer?
SHERMAN: Uh, no.
MARIA: Boris, je te presente Monsieur McCoy. Sherman, voila Boris Karlevskov. He's defective.
SHERMAN: You mean he defected.
MARIA: I mean he doesn't speak any English.
SHERMAN: Are you sure?
MARIA: Yes. Watch. Boris, darling, would you like me to eat your ass?
BORIS: Encore du champagne, s'il vous You see? It went right over his Maria, I need to talk to you. Something very. unexpected is Of course, darling, but keep smiling. My husband is watching me. Look at him. He's so pleased with himself. He's just closed a new deal. A charter business. He's going to take Arabs to Mecca on
MARIA: You see? It went right over his Maria, I need to talk to you. Something very. unexpected is Of course, darling, but keep smiling. My husband is watching me. Look at him. He's so pleased with himself. He's just closed a new deal. A charter business. He's going to take Arabs to Mecca on
SHERMAN: Maria, I need to talk to you. Something very. unexpected is Of course, darling, but keep smiling. My husband is watching me. Look at him. He's so pleased with himself. He's just closed a new deal. A charter business. He's going to take Arabs to Mecca on
MARIA: Of course, darling, but keep smiling. My husband is watching me. Look at him. He's so pleased with himself. He's just closed a new deal. A charter business. He's going to take Arabs to Mecca on
SHERMAN: ( with a social grin ) I'm going to be arrested in the Of course, the airplanes are all from Israel.
MARIA: Of course, the airplanes are all from Israel.
SHERMAN: By the police, I imagine.
MARIA: He'll make a fortune.
SHERMAN: I don't think it will be too bad. My lawyer if you can call him that has received assurances that it will all be handled in an orderly fashion.
MARIA: He called me a whore today. Right in front of the servants. I mean, really. How does he expect me to run the house if he humiliates me in front of the help?
SHERMAN: Yes. Well. You have a point.
MARIA: I'm sorry, Sherman. What are we talking about?
SHERMAN: The other guy has come forward. He says I was driving the car. I'm going to be arrested tomorrow morning. I need to know from you . I mean, what do you want me to say?
MARIA: Oh, Sherman, what.?!
MRS. BAVARDAGE: Maria, darling, I need your advice about something. My designer has gone bonkers about jabots and chintz.
MRS. BAVARDAGE: Sherman, have you met Aubrey Buffing? He has AIDS.
SHERMAN: ( shakes Sherman's Like so many of us now, with death and retribution waiting for us. Yet we go on whirling about each other.
AUBREY: ( shakes Sherman's Like so many of us now, with death and retribution waiting for us. Yet we go on whirling about each other.
AUBREY: We are unable to stop, until death itself takes us into his arms and burns us with the fever of living, dragging us like Don Juan into the bonfires of hell. The words of the ghost ringing in our ears. 'Repent!
MARTIN: 'Morning, Mr. McCoy. As Sherman climbs into the back seat.
MARTIN: Be careful of your clothes. My kid got all this Styrofoam shit back there. They stick to your How do you feel?
KILLIAN: How do you feel?
SHERMAN: Top notch. Look. You said this was just a formality.
KILLIAN: No problem. They promised me.
SHERMAN: I told Maria. I saw her last night. In case we need her.
KILLIAN: That explains it. She left the country this morning. You know some Italian painter named Filippo Sharutti, something like that?
SHERMAN: I don't know. Why?
KILLIAN: I think your girl friend found a new boyfriend.
SHERMAN: It's not going to be so bad. This is routine. I talked to Andruitti again last night. He promised me. We'll be in and out of there. No problem. Nobody is ever going to know it happened.
KILLIAN: It's not going to be so bad. This is routine. I talked to Andruitti again last night. He promised me. We'll be in and out of there. No problem. Nobody is ever going to know it happened.
MARTIN: We got to cuff him.
KILLIAN: What for?
MARTIN: The zone captain is gonna be there. And the press.
KILLIAN: Wait a minute. What the fuck?! What press?! I talked to Ray last night. He promised no bullshit.
MARTIN: This is Weiss. Weiss gave the order this morning.
KILLIAN: Somebody is going to pay for this.
PETER: Excuse me, Mister McCoy?
KILLIAN: Don't talk. What's going on here?!
PETER: You don't know me but I'm.
GOLDBERG: Jesus Christ! Get out and get that door open or we'll never get him out of the fucking car.
MARTIN: Bullshit reigns. Put the cuffs on him.
SHERMAN: I'm going to jail. Aren't I?
KILLIAN: Let me get out first. Now listen. You don't say anything. Don't cover your face. Don't hang your head. You don't even know they're there. Okay?
SHERMAN: I'm going to jail.
SOMEONE: Sherman! Hey, shitface. Over
VOICE: Hey, Sherman, how you going to
VOICES: You ever been arrested before? Who's the brunette? What were you doing in the Bronx? Why didn't you stop, Sherman? Sherman! This way! This way! How's your wife taking this, Sherman?
VOICES: How much did you make last year? Hey, fuckhead! How do you like this cocktail party? Why'd you hit him? Give us a statement. Come on, Sherman, give us a break. Give us a little something, you fucking racist.
KILLIAN: ( screaming over the Don't make any statements! Don't talk to anybody, especially in the pens! I'll be upstairs when they bring you up for arraignment.
KRAMER: You may have a long wait, Mr. Killian. If I have anything to say about it.
KILLIAN: Yeah? Fuck you, too, Kramer.
GOLDBERG: Whoa. Whoa. Give me your coat. Okay. Try it again. What the fuck? Wait a minute. Come here. Bend over.
GOLDBERG: What the fuck? Wait a minute. Come here. Bend over.
GOLDBERG: I ain't going to touch you. Just bend over at the waist and back through the gate. Real slow.
GOLDBERG: Slow. Slow. Slow. A little farther, little farther. Little farther. Little farther.
GOLDBERG: Hey, Martin. Come here. Look at this.
GOLDBERG: Okay, Sherman. Do that again. Real slow.
GOLDBERG: It's his head! Swear to Christ. It's his head. Open your mouth.
GOLDBERG: Look in there. You want to see some metal?
MARTIN: Jesus Christ. Set of teeth look like a change-maker.
GOLDBERG: They ever let you on an airplane?
CLERK: Sherman McCoy.
JUDGE WHITE: Mr. McCoy, you know the charges that are being brought against Hmn? What?
SHERMAN: Hmn? What?
JUDGE WHITE: We want to know how you plead to the charges.
SHERMAN: I am sorry.
JUDGE WHITE: You're what?
SHERMAN: I am very sorry. Please forgive Just say, not guilty.
KILLIAN: Just say, not guilty.
SHERMAN: For my life. For everything. I am truly sorry.
KILLIAN: Your Honor, the defendant is under extreme stress. He pleads not I repent all the sins of my past life. I repent.
SHERMAN: I repent all the sins of my past life. I repent.
KILLIAN: Just shut up, Sherman. Defendant pleads not guilty!
JUDGE WHITE: Bail has been set at $10,000.
KRAMER: Your Honor.
SPECTATORS: No bail! No bail! Lock him up! Bang it shut!
KRAMER: We do not believe it will serve the interests of justice to allow this defendant to go free on a token bail.
KILLIAN: Your Honor, Mr. Kramer knows very well.
KRAMER: Given the emotions of the community.
KILLIAN: This is patent nonsense. Bail has already been agreed to.
JUDGE WHITE: ( bangs the gavel ) Quiet! Where the hell do you think you are?!
KRAMER: I have a petition from the community with an appeal to the District Attorney that justice be done. And Mr. Weiss himself has instructed me to request bail in the amount of $250,000. Cash.
SPECTATORS: ( cheering and Yeah! Yeah! Tell him! Tell him! Tell him!
JUDGE WHITE: If your office has information bearing upon the bail status of this case, I instruct you to make a formal application. Until then, I am releasing Mr. McCoy under a bond in the amount of $10,000. Now get this side show out of my court.
KRAMER: Your Honor, your action will do irreparable damage not only to the People's case.
JUDGE WHITE: Mr. Kramer, I have spoken.
KRAMER: . But to the cause of the people as well.
JUDGE WHITE: Mr. Kramer.
KRAMER: It ill-behooves the criminal justice system.
JUDGE WHITE: Kindly behoove me no ill-behooves!!!
KRAMER: Your Honor.
JUDGE WHITE: Mr. Kramer, the court directs you to shut up!!!
CROWD: No bail! Put him in jail!
CROWD: Murderer! Motherfucker! Say your prayers, Park Avenue Tear you a new one You mine, needlenose! Count every breath,
VOICES: It's over! He's coming out! Let's go! Let's go!
PETER: Jesus Christ.
SHERMAN: Sherman McCoy.
PETER: Yes. I know. I know that. What are you.?
SHERMAN: I need a taxi.
PETER: You need to get out of here.
VOICES: The other way! Other way! He's coming out the back! Move! Move!
PETER: This way. Come on.
SHERMAN: Uh. I don't normally ride the Me either. Especially on a first date. But we don't really have a
PETER: Me either. Especially on a first date. But we don't really have a
PETER: Are you alright?
SHERMAN: Oh, fine. Yes, thanks.
PETER: Look, I owe you an apology.
SHERMAN: No, you were very helpful.
PETER: You don't know who I am.
SHERMAN: That's alright. Thanks. I should Go where?
PETER: Go where?
SHERMAN: Look. Sit down. Just sit down a minute. I'll get you home.
PETER: Look. Sit down. Just sit down a minute. I'll get you home.
PETER: Would you like a drink? I happen to have a little something.
SHERMAN: Uh. No. Thanks.
PETER: Go on. Fuck it. What are they going to do? Arrest you?
SHERMAN: Does this train go anywhere near Park Avenue?
PETER: Not in a million years.
SHERMAN: My father took the subway every day of his life.
PETER: Yeah. But he didn't live in the South Bronx. Did he?
SHERMAN: They both laugh.
SHERMAN: I look terrible.
PETER: You look like shit. And you smell, I think, when I was in the jail, I pissed in my pants.
SHERMAN: I think, when I was in the jail, I pissed in my pants.
PETER: Take it easy.
SHERMAN: I'm alright.
PETER: I can't think.
SHERMAN: I can't think.
PETER: It's okay. Have another drink.
SHERMAN: . and then this newspaper thing started, this Peter Fallow person, and all the facts were wrong, total disregard for the truth. Why do they do this?
PETER: This is you. You'll be right on Lexington Avenue.
SHERMAN: They call me by my first name. Like they know me. Like they own me. Newspapers, lawyers, police, people I don't even know. How did I get to be so important?
PETER: You're not important. You're just dinner. You know what I mean? And a week from now, a month nobody is even going to remember what they
SHERMAN: I should have called the police right away, when it happened. But I couldn't you see? It wasn't really my decision.
PETER: How do you mean?
SHERMAN: I mean, I wasn't driving the car.
PETER: ( CONTINUED )
PETER: Wait a minute! Wait a minute!
BOBBY SHALFET: Sherman! You sly fox. Great to see you. Everybody! It's Sherman! Bravo! Bravo!
NUNNALLY VOYD: Sherman, my boy. Whatever you do, don't let the newspapers get you
MAN: Fruit flies. That's all they are. They swarm. They hover over the faces. You take a swipe at them, they run away.
NUNNALLY VOYD: Yes. But they always come back to the shit. Don't they?
WOMAN: And I always thought of you as such a dull person.
SHERMAN: Uh. no. What?
SHERMAN: Excuse me.
RAWLIE: Sherman. Gee. Hi.
SHERMAN: Sorry. I didn't mean to interrupt No. No.
RAWLIE: Sorry. I didn't mean to interrupt No. No.
SHERMAN: No. No.
RAWLIE: Gene asked me to come by.
SHERMAN: Yeah. I haven't really been able to talk to anybody.
RAWLIE: He just wanted you to know, anything we can do.
SHERMAN: Oh, well. I should be down there in a day or so.
RAWLIE: Oh, that won't be necessary. That's what I came to. I was sent to tell you. I mean, you don't have to. I mean, you shouldn't come down. I mean, they don't want you to come down.
SHERMAN: Oh. I see. Well.
RAWLIE: Jesus, Sherman. I'm sorry. But between all this and the way you handled Bernard on the Giscard deal. I mean, six hundred million.
SHERMAN: That's final, huh?
RAWLIE: Well, the firm feels.
SHERMAN: Yes. Yes. Of course. Excuse me.
SHERMAN: Judy. What is going on?
JUDY: This is a dinner party. It was planned weeks ago. If you ever bothered to look at your calendar.
SHERMAN: But Judy, I mean, under the
JUDY: Yes. I know the whole story. I heard it saw it all on television. On television?!
SHERMAN: I'm sorry. I am. Believe me.
JUDY: You betrayed us, Sherman. Me. Campbell. Even yourself. On the other hand, I am going to chair the museum benefit thanks to you and your escapades on the public airways. What can I say? Life goes on. I can only make the best of an absolutely appalling situation and carry on.
SHERMAN: But can you forgive me?
JUDY: I suppose I can forgive anything, but not television. I'm leaving you, Sherman. After the party. Now if you'll excuse me, we have
SALLY: Oh, my darling, is this a bad I beg your pardon.
SHERMAN: I beg your pardon.
SALLY: What am I saying? Of course it's a bad time. But I just wanted to see if I can be of any help.
SHERMAN: Well, that's very kind of you.
SALLY: You know I haven't been in this apartment since the McCleods had it. That was before the Kittridges. I hope I'm not being out of place.
SHERMAN: Not at all. uh.
SALLY: Anyway, thank you.
SHERMAN: Anyway, thank you.
SALLY: No, really, anything I can do. With the apartment, is what I The apartment?
SHERMAN: The apartment?
SALLY: I find people often need to be as liquid as they can in these situations and I know I can get you seven-and-a-half right at this moment. Fabled aristocratic tycoon it's the celebrity appeal. Maybe eight. If we act quickly this kind of opportunity doesn't come along every day. You have to ride the wave.
SHERMAN: Excuse me. I have to. uh. Excuse me.
SHERMAN: Pollard. How are you?
POLLARD: Sorry to interrupt your dinner.
SHERMAN: Not at all. The more the merrier.
POLLARD: I've been in touch with the co-op board, well, most of them, and we want you to know you have our You know, at first I wanted to die. Standing there in court, people calling my name.
SHERMAN: You know, at first I wanted to die. Standing there in court, people calling my name.
POLLARD: Yes. Of course. Hard to believe.
SHERMAN: And then I thought, I have a gun. Twelve gauge. Double barrel.
SHERMAN: Here it is.
POLLARD: Sherman, we've known each other a long time. We went to Buckley together. My father knew your father. I speak as a friend. But also as president of the board. Is that a gun?
SHERMAN: I wonder if I can get both barrels into my mouth. That's what I was thinking. And how do you pull the trigger. I read somewhere about a man who took off his shoe and pulled the trigger with his toe.
POLLARD: Yes. This can't be a comfortable situation for you.
SHERMAN: And where would I do it? Who would find me?
POLLARD: Exactly. Yes. Have you considered. changing residence until things quiet down?
SHERMAN: You want me to leave?
POLLARD: This is my home.
SHERMAN: This is my home.
POLLARD: I understand that.
SHERMAN: This is the only safe place I have. People are threatening my life. I have to protect myself.
POLLARD: There are people demonstrating in front of our building. Black people with basketballs! You're putting everyone at risk. It's not your fault. But that doesn't alter the facts.
SHERMAN: Alter the facts?! The facts are that I have no place else to go! And you want me to move out?! Is that what you're saying, Pollard. You want me to move out of my
POLLARD: You are a shareholder in a cooperative. Look, we're not asking you to do anything of a permanent nature.
SHERMAN: Why don't you move out, Pollard? If you're so fucking terrified!
POLLARD: Sherman, please.
SHERMAN: And you can start by moving out of this apartment right now. Out! Now!
POLLARD: I came here in good faith.
SHERMAN: Oh, Pollard, you were a ridiculous fat blowhard at Buckley and you're a ridiculous fat blowhard now.
POLLARD: I will have to enforce the provision concerning unacceptable Another word out of you, Pollard, and there's going to be an unacceptable situation right up your ass! Now march!
SHERMAN: Another word out of you, Pollard, and there's going to be an unacceptable situation right up your ass! Now march!
SHERMAN: And that goes for the rest of you, too. Out. All of you.
SHERMAN: Out! Stinking lot of anorexic parasites. Get out of my house!
SHERMAN: Out of my house, out of my life!
JUDY: Say goodbye to Daddy.
CAMPBELL: 'Bye, Daddy. See you later.
JUDY: ( as they go ) You can see him on television. Sherman McCoy is dead. Sherman McCoy of Park Avenue and Wall Street and Southampton gone. Dead. I will never be Sherman McCoy again. Never!
SHERMAN: Sherman McCoy is dead. Sherman McCoy of Park Avenue and Wall Street and Southampton gone. Dead. I will never be Sherman McCoy again. Never!
WOMAN: Beautiful stuff, Peter. First rate.
MAN: He looks like a real killer, this McCoy fellow. Doesn't he?
ANOTHER WOMAN: You can see it in the photographs. You can see it in his chin.
ANOTHER MAN: Arrogant son a bitch, isn't he? I hope they throw the book at him.
EVELYN: Daddy. Dinner.
MOORE: Yes, darling. Shall we have Peter here come along with us?
EVELYN: Gerald and Evelyn lead Peter toward the back dining room.
MOORE: I want to give this story our full attention, Peter. It makes us look better and better, the more we do for this Lamb family. Poor little Lambs, poor little fuzzy-wuzzy wogs.
CAROLINE: Excuse me, Peter. There's a phone call for you upstairs in the office.
PETER: Where's the phone?
CAROLINE: I lied. I wanted to see you alone. I'm going to do you a favor.
PETER: Don't tell me I'm finally going to get into your panties.
CAROLINE: You don't deserve this, Peter. But I'm going to tell you something.
PETER: Listen, Caroline. I'm sort of with some people tonight.
CAROLINE: Relax, darling. Do you remember my pretty little Italian friend? The painter.
PETER: Yes. Yes, I do. Franco or Filippo. The little shit.
CAROLINE: Filippo. The little shit.
PETER: Caroline, you're absolutely soused.
CAROLINE: Well, Filippo has run off with a little slut you should know about.
PETER: Caroline, isn't that dangerous? Or at least unsanitary?
CAROLINE: Shut up, Peter. You're not listening. Her name is Maria Ruskin.
PETER: You're joking.
CAROLINE: I never joke. She was in the car.
PETER: But how do you know all this?
CAROLINE: The apartment was bugged. They had a wire in the intercom. They were trying to prove that I wasn't living there. Which I wasn't. Now I've lost the apartment and the boyfriend.
PETER: You don't know where they are?
CAROLINE: No. But I'm trusting you to find them. And when you do. Give them this. Tell them this is the little lady who turned them in.
CAROLINE: Maybe I should advertise.
MAITRE D': Monsieur Ruskin is already here.
PETER: Arthur. Thanks for meeting me on such short notice.
ARTHUR: Peter Fallow?
PETER: Yes. We've never met but I'm a good friend of. your wife.
ARTHUR: ( a lament ) My wife! My wife! I'm glad she's not here. Otherwise I couldn't have a drink. ( to waiter ) Give me a Couvoisier V.S.O.P. No. Put it in a sidecar.
PETER: Yes. Uh. where is Maria, by the Italy. Every time I turn around, she's in Italy. I'm not supposed to drink. But I love a sidecar. It was Willi Nordhoff introduced me to them. So. You're on the City Light?
ARTHUR: Italy. Every time I turn around, she's in Italy. I'm not supposed to drink. But I love a sidecar. It was Willi Nordhoff introduced me to them. So. You're on the City Light?
PETER: Uh, yes. And we're doing a little profile piece. We're calling it the 'New Tycoons.' And, naturally, we thought of you.
ARTHUR: Good. Good. I like that. New tycoons. So what do you want to Oh, there's no hurry. So Maria is in Italy. Where abouts?
PETER: Oh, there's no hurry. So Maria is in Italy. Where abouts?
ARTHUR: She's in Lake Como someplace.
PETER: Well, there are some great hotels in Lake Como. Is she at the
ARTHUR: What do I know? I just pay the bills. Well, she's young. She needs young people. I'm not stupid. I know what goes on. We should order. I don't have too much time.
PETER: I'd like to talk to her, too. If I could. If I could get in touch with her.
ARTHUR: Call the office. I'll give you her number. She's something. I always said it as a compliment, but she's a lot of pussy to handle. Excuse my language. What do you want to eat?
ARTHUR: . But the best is just a few weeks ago, one of these jackass pilots, he lands long and the plane goes off the runway. I was there. I was on the plane. We're going into Mecca, see. And the plane is full of Arabs and all these animals sheep, goats, chickens. They won't travel without their animals. We had to put plastic in the cabins. You know, they urinate, they defecate.
PETER: Anyway, the plane goes off the runway and we hit the sand with a hell of a jolt and the right wing tip digs into the sand and the plane skids around in a circle! 360 degrees before we stop! We're scared shitless. Panic. And we look into the cabin and there's everybody calm, quiet, they're picking up their luggage and their animals and they're looking out the window at the little fire that started on the wing and they're waiting for the doors to open like nothing happened. And then it dawns on me. They think this is
ARTHUR: Anyway, the plane goes off the runway and we hit the sand with a hell of a jolt and the right wing tip digs into the sand and the plane skids around in a circle! 360 degrees before we stop! We're scared shitless. Panic. And we look into the cabin and there's everybody calm, quiet, they're picking up their luggage and their animals and they're looking out the window at the little fire that started on the wing and they're waiting for the doors to open like nothing happened. And then it dawns on me. They think this is
ARTHUR: They think this is the way you stop an airplane.
PETER: Arthur? Arthur?
PETER: Excuse me. Hello? Excuse me.
PETER: Mr. Ruskin seems to have suffered some kind of well, I don't Oh, dear. Oh, dear. Oh, dear.
MAITRE D': ( very disappointed ) Oh, dear. Oh, dear. Oh, dear.
PETER: I think you'd better call someone.
MAITRE D': ( annoyed ) Freddy? Attention, s'il vous
MAN: Is he choking? Let me give him the Heimlich maneuver.
MAITRE D': Excuse me, Monsieur Roberts. You are not a doctor. And there are legal complications.
MR. ROBERTS: Yes, I see, but.
MAITRE D': For your own protection and mine and my restaurant, we leave Monsieur Ruskin in the hands of God and we go back to our escargots.
PETER: Well, somebody has to do something.
MAITRE D': We have called the police. An ambulance is coming. There is nothing more we can do. Would you like some coffee or dessert?
MR. ROBERTS: ( to Peter ) Gee, buddy. I think he's dead. Eh, voila.
MAITRE D': Eh, voila.
PETER: MAITRE D' ( drops a card in front of Peter )
MAITRE D': ( drops a card L'addition, s'il vous plait.
PETER: MAITRE D'
MAITRE D': The bill, monsieur. Thank you. And we do not accept credit cards.
PETER: Mrs. Ruskin?
MARIA: My name is Peter Fallow. I just wanted to offer my sympathy.
PETER: My name is Peter Fallow. I just wanted to offer my sympathy.
MARIA: ( through tears ) How very kind. Did you know Ah, well, yes. I was actually quite close to him when he died.
PETER: Ah, well, yes. I was actually quite close to him when he died.
MARIA: I've reprobated myself over and over again for being away.
PETER: You shouldn't.
MARIA: Well, thank you for the kind words. I must go now.
PETER: Yes. Just one other thing. I understand you're a friend of Sherman McCoy.
MARIA: I'm sorry.?
PETER: Yes. I gather you were not only in the car with him when he had his unfortunate accident in the Bronx. But I understand you were driving.
MARIA: Sherman would never tell you that.
PETER: I was hoping you might tell me exactly what happened that night.
MARIA: Look, Mr.. Mr..
PETER: . Peckerhead. I am here for my husband's funeral. Understand? Now go away. Disappear.
MARIA: . Peckerhead. I am here for my husband's funeral. Understand? Now go away. Disappear.
FOX: What kind of muckracking yellow journalist are you!? You print a story like this without so much as a by-your-leave to me or to Reverend Bacon here! Who the hell do you think you are.
ANNIE: ( tearfully ) Please, you have to keep your voices down.
PETER: Look, don't you understand? It is very possible that Sherman McCoy was not driving that car. And I can almost prove it.
FOX: So what?! So what?! So what?! This is our case.
FOX: Right here. You see? It's the hospital that's the guilty party.
PETER: The hospital?! What are you talking about?
FOX: A young man comes in here with a cerebral concussion and they treat him for a broken wrist. That is our case! That is the lawsuit that we are going to bring against this hospital. That is what we have been working toward all this time. And you are confusing the issue! Do you understand me?!
PETER: Alright, alright. But Christ, Albert, this is a great story. This is my exclusive. And it's also the truth!
BACON: It's a little late for you to start telling the truth, isn't it, Pete?
PETER: I can't just drop this now. I can't just let it go.
FOX: Sure you can. There's gonna be other stories, other exclusives. Don't worry. We'll take care of That's right. You're our boy, Peter. You take care of us and we'll take care of you. I promise you, that's going to be a very profitable relationship for all of us.
BACON: That's right. You're our boy, Peter. You take care of us and we'll take care of you. I promise you, that's going to be a very profitable relationship for all of us.
BACON: Annie, I know that nothing can heal the wound that you have suffered. But ten million dollars in damages will certainly make your grief more comfortable.
ANNIE: Well, yes, I could use a few things, Reverend, thank you. I been worried about my clothes for instance. I feel that the presentation of my person should be carefully designed. As a model to black mothers everywhere, I think I should have the right wardrobe. So if you could have Mr. Fox's limousine pick me up in the morning, I could do some Why certainly.
FOX: Why certainly.
ANNIE: I'll need some furniture, too. And a new refrigerator. And although I should probably continue to live in that shithole of an apartment at least until after the lawsuit is settled, I would like to start looking now for a co-op in Manhattan for me and my son something with a view of the river and preferably in a neighborhood that is at least upwardly mobile.
WEISS: ( quietly ) Now they're going to sue the hospital. You see? All they want is money. Imagine using a terrible tragedy like this for your own selfish motives.
KRAMER: Yes, sir. It is terrible.
WEISS: Shut up, you asshole.
KRAMER: Yes, sir.
WEISS: What's happening to my case? The People versus Sherman McCoy? Where is my issue? Where is my cause? Where is my hope?
ANDRIUTTI: I think we better talk to this Mrs. Ruskin.
WEISS: You go to the press. You tell them we're going to question the woman, and if she is the woman who was in the car, she faces possible charges, etcetera, etcetera.
ANDRIUTTI: And you, Mr. Wise-Guy-Know-It-All- Shitface, you're the one got us into this, you're going to get us out. You go to this broad, you tell her she's in a whole lot of trouble, lay it on. But, but, but if she is willing to cooperate, if she will say what we want her to say, then we will grant her Yes, sir.
WEISS: And you, Mr. Wise-Guy-Know-It-All- Shitface, you're the one got us into this, you're going to get us out. You go to this broad, you tell her she's in a whole lot of trouble, lay it on. But, but, but if she is willing to cooperate, if she will say what we want her to say, then we will grant her Yes, sir.
KRAMER: Yes, sir.
WEISS: Go on, go. What are you waiting for?
KRAMER: Well today is her husband's funeral.
WEISS: ( exploding ) I don't care if today is her mother's bar mitzvah, you go talk to her!!!
PETER: Mr. Leach?
LEACH: I understand you been doing some creative wiring in this building.
PETER: I understand you been doing some creative wiring in this building.
SHERMAN: That's us! That's me! That's Maria! How did you get this?
KILLIAN: Shhh! Listen.
SHERMAN: You mean the apartment was wired bugged all that time?
KILLIAN: Yeah. I checked it all out. Whoever sent me this tape is either a big fan of yours or a not so big fan of Maria Ruskin.
SHERMAN: Then we have this as evidence.
KILLIAN: No. It's an illegal tape. Totally illegal. The guy who did this could go to jail for this. Now if this were your tape, it would be legal. But it's not.
SHERMAN: What do you mean, 'my tape'?
KILLIAN: Well, if you were wired and you recorded your own conversation that would be okay. But there is no way that this tape can be used as evidence in a court of law.
SHERMAN: Then what good is it?
KILLIAN: It gave me an idea.
SHERMAN: An idea about what?
KILLIAN: An idea about what to wear when you go to this funeral.
SHERMAN: What funeral?
MARIA: Sherman! Whatever are you doing I'm sorry, Maria. I have to talk to you.
SHERMAN: I'm sorry, Maria. I have to talk to you.
MARIA: You seem to be doing all your talking to the newspapers these Believe me, I had nothing to do with that. We didn't want your name in the papers any more than you did.
SHERMAN: Believe me, I had nothing to do with that. We didn't want your name in the papers any more than you did.
MARIA: I see. Well, here we are, Sherman. The couple that all New York is talking about. And we're not even a couple anymore.
SHERMAN: I thought you'd run out on me. I didn't even know where you went. And I was left sort of holding the bag, trying to protect you.
MARIA: Oh, Sherman. Would I do that to you? Sherman, Sherman, Sherman.
MARIA: What are we going to do with you?
SHERMAN: You have to help me, Maria.
MARIA: But how can I help you?
SHERMAN: Well, I know this may sound like a strange request, but you could start by telling the police what really happened.
MARIA: Oh, Sherman, you are the sweetest thing. But I'm not sure anybody knows what really happened. Not anymore. And if anybody does know, it certainly isn't me.
SHERMAN: But you were driving the car that Was I? I don't remember. Isn't it funny how a little thing like that can slip your mind? God, there's something about funerals that is so stimulating. My panties have been wet all Maria, please.
MARIA: Was I? I don't remember. Isn't it funny how a little thing like that can slip your mind? God, there's something about funerals that is so stimulating. My panties have been wet all Maria, please.
SHERMAN: Maria, please.
DIRECTOR: And now, in accordance with the wishes of Mr. Ruskin.
MARIA: Sherman. What's wrong with you?
SHERMAN: Then why are you all hunched over?
MARIA: Then why are you all hunched over?
SHERMAN: Maria, we have to talk.
MARIA: Sherman, what's this on your back?
SHERMAN: My what?
MARIA: This lump, this piece of metal, this thing on your back?!
SHERMAN: I don't know my belt, belt You don't have a belt buckle in the back. There's some sort of subterfuge afoot here. Isn't Don't be silly.
MARIA: You don't have a belt buckle in the back. There's some sort of subterfuge afoot here. Isn't Don't be silly.
SHERMAN: Don't be silly.
MARIA: You are secreting something on your body!
SHERMAN: I want to see what it is.
MARIA: I want to see what it is.
SHERMAN: Maria, are you crazy!
MARIA: And a wire! A wire!
SHERMAN: You rotten, dishonest bastard!
MARIA: You rotten, dishonest bastard!
SHERMAN: Maria, I didn't want to do this, but you gave me no choice.
MARIA: Go away whoever you are!
MARIA: My, my, my, Mr. McCoy. I'd say your goose was just about home- I have protected you, Maria. I have been a gentleman. I have done my best to keep your name out of this. But you have got to help me. You have got to do the right Never. Never. Never. I hope you die and hang in the electric chair!
SHERMAN: ( whispering ) I have protected you, Maria. I have been a gentleman. I have done my best to keep your name out of this. But you have got to help me. You have got to do the right Never. Never. Never. I hope you die and hang in the electric chair!
MARIA: Never. Never. Never. I hope you die and hang in the electric chair!
KRAMER: . I'm with the District Attorney's office. I wonder if I might have a few words.
MARIA: He's gone!
KRAMER: He just ran out that back door.
MARIA: He just ran out that back door.
KRAMER: Sherman McCoy!
MARIA: Sherman McCoy!
KRAMER: I'm sorry if I alarmed you. But he was acting very strange. My name is Maria Ruskin.
MARIA: I'm sorry if I alarmed you. But he was acting very strange. My name is Maria Ruskin.
KRAMER: Kramer, Jed Kramer, Jed. I'm the Assistant District Attorney for Bronx County.
MARIA: Oh. I see. And what a handsome District Attorney you are, too.
KRAMER: I'm not the. uh. I'm the Assistant D.A.
MARIA: Well, you and I have a lot to talk about. Don't we?
KRAMER: Yes, we do.
MARIA: Yes. Because if I'm going to testify I'm going to want to know exactly what I should. and should not say.
KRAMER: Yes, ma'am.
SHERMAN: I usually come in the back way now. I see. May I.?
SHERMAN: Yes. Sure. Sorry. Come in.
SHERMAN: Yes. Judy. uh. She's gone, too?
SHERMAN: MR. McCOY
SHERMAN: She has a good lawyer.
SHERMAN: No. Of course not. Jesus. Or this apartment for that matter. For what it cost, for what you paid for it. Or the furniture.
SHERMAN: Or my car, or my work, or my clothes, my life, my money. For Christ's sake, you didn't come here now, you didn't come all the way here on a fucking subway probably to tell me now. No. I didn't.
SHERMAN: I mean, I'm not going to get, at this late date, I'm not going to get the ethics and morality speech, not now, when I have to do what I'm going to do in that courtroom tomorrow, if that's what you've come to give me, Jesus. No. No. I'm sorry. I came here to. I don't know how to do this. You didn't call. We wanted to help. I came here to tell you that we are here for you. That you are our son and that we love you. 'We.' I don't mean we. I mean I. That I love you. That's all. Well. What you want to do?
SHERMAN: There's only one thing I can do. I want to see the truth come out and burn every one of them. And there's only one way to do that.
SHERMAN: MR. McCOY
SHERMAN: MR. McCOY
KRAMER: . And this incident occurred on the ramp to the expressway or on the avenue itself.
MARIA: Why, on the avenue. Right on the And was there any obstruction or barricade of any kind that caused the car to stop?
KRAMER: And was there any obstruction or barricade of any kind that caused the car to stop?
MARIA: Oh, no. Nothing like that at all.
KRAMER: Finally, one last question. Can you tell us, Mrs. Ruskin, who was driving the car when Henry Lamb was hit?
MARIA: Why, Sherman never let anyone drive his car.
KRAMER: Sherman McCoy was driving the car.
MARIA: Oh, yes.
MARIA: . and I wanted to report the incident but he wouldn't let me. He said he was driving and it was his decision to make.
KRAMER: You were surprised?
MARIA: I was shocked. There are certain qualities of virtue that I admire in a human being, virtues that I hope I possess myself.
JUDGE WHITE: What in hell.?!
JUDGE WHITE: Whose tape is this, Mr. McCoy?
SHERMAN: That tape is mine, sir.
KRAMER: If Your Honor please.
JUDGE WHITE: Shut up, Mr. Kramer. Mr. McCoy, I remind you that you are still under oath. Now, did you record this conversation?
SHERMAN: Oh, yes, sir, I did. I recorded this conversation on this tape. My tape. This is my tape of my conversation. I recorded it. Yes, sir. Yes, sir, three bags Get out of my face. All of you.
JUDGE WHITE: Get out of my face. All of you.
JUDGE WHITE: I want some fucking order in here!
JUDGE WHITE: ( screaming ) So you insist on testing the will of this court!!!! Now you shut up and sit down!! All of you! Very well. In the case of the People versus Sherman McCoy, the Grand Jury has returned an indictment. Based on the evidence contained in this recording. ( holds up the tape ) . and pursuant to my authority to supervise the Grand Jury's ( scream ) Whitewash!! Whitewash!!
DEMONSTRATORS: ( scream ) Whitewash!! Whitewash!!
JUDGE WHITE: . I am ordering the indictment dismissed in the interests of justice, without prejudice and with leave to re-present by the District Attorney.
DEMONSTRATORS: Justice. We want justice!!! We want justice!!!
JUDGE WHITE: Justice! You want justice?! I'll give you justice!
VOICE: You racist pig!
JUDGE WHITE: You dare call me a racist! Well, I say to you, you a mob who dares to come into these walls I say to you, what does it matter . the color of a man's skin? If witnesses perjure themselves. and a prosecutor, a sworn officer of the court, enlists the perjurers . and a district attorney throws a man to the mob and lawyers carve up that man for his money. and men of the cloth, men of God take the prime cuts! Now you tell me
JUDGE: I don't hear you! I'll tell you what justice is not. Justice is not the will of the few and it's not the will of the many. Justice is not politics. Justice is the law. And the law is man's feeble attempt to set down the principles of decency. Decency! And decency is not a deal. Or an angle, or a contract, or a hustle or a campaign or a trick or a bid for sympathy. Decency is not the beast that bays for money, power, dominion, position, votes and blood! Decency is what your mother taught you! Decency is in your bones! Do I make myself clear! Now go home. Go home now. Be decent people. Be decent.
JUDGE: I'll tell you what justice is not. Justice is not the will of the few and it's not the will of the many. Justice is not politics. Justice is the law. And the law is man's feeble attempt to set down the principles of decency. Decency! And decency is not a deal. Or an angle, or a contract, or a hustle or a campaign or a trick or a bid for sympathy. Decency is not the beast that bays for money, power, dominion, position, votes and blood! Decency is what your mother taught you! Decency is in your bones! Do I make myself clear! Now go home. Go home now. Be decent people. Be decent.
JUDGE: You're free to go, Mr. McCoy.
BACON: You bald-headed Uncle Tom pussy!! Are you going to take this Park Avenue justice!? Are you?
KRAMER: We're not finished with you, McCoy. You'll be back in this courtroom. This decision will be appealed until I see you behind bars! You hear me, Judge.
JUDGE: Get your fucking face out of my This fucking face is going to see you shining shoes in Grand Central Station.
KRAMER: This fucking face is going to see you shining shoes in Grand Central Station.
KRAMER: ( taunting the Judge ) This fucking face is going to see you selling pencils, you black son of a bitch.
BACON: Sherman McCoy! You shall not escape. You shall live in fear on this island, in the mighty sea of people, for the people and justice are waiting for you!
FOX: You've been woefully misrepresented here, Mr. McCoy. I think you should give me a call.
WEISS: . and I promise you and the people of this city that Henry Lamb will not be forgotten. Henry Lamb will live, like the Alamo, as a symbol of slaughtered
WEISS: And this man's name will live in infamy. Like Adolf Hitler! Like Son of Sam! Like Idi Amin! John Wilkes Booth! Ted Bundy! Jesse
FALLOW: Sherman! Sherman! Congratulations. This is going to make one hell of a story!!
SHERMAN: You again! Who are you?!
PETER: Oh, sorry. I'm Peter Fallow. I'm Peter Fallow. Ha. Ha. Ha.
PETER: Thanks. I needed that.
SHERMAN: Are you alright?
JUDGE: I'm alright. Damn hooligans.
JUDGE: And you. You, too. You go home now. And be decent. You hear me?
SHERMAN: I hear you, Your Honor.
THE END: Writers : Michael Cristofer
