BONNIE: Hey, boy! What you doin' with my mama's car?
BONNIE: Wait there!
BONNIE: ( putting her on ) Ain't you ashamed? Tryin' to steal an old lady's automobile.
CLYDE: ( with the same put-on ) I been thinkin' about buyin' me one.
BONNIE: Bull. You ain't got money for dinner, let alone buy no car.
CLYDE: ( still the battle of wits going on ) Now I got enough money for cokes, and since it don't look like you're gonna invite me inside
BONNIE: You'd steal the dining room table if I did.
CLYDE: ( he moves from his spot ) Come to town with me, then. How'd that be?
BONNIE: ( starting to walk onto the sidewalk ) Goin' to work anyway.
CLYDE: Goin' to work, huh? What do you do?
BONNIE: None of your business.
CLYDE: ( pretending to give it serious thought ) I bet you're a.movie star! ( thinks ) No.A lady mechanic?.No.A ( really offended by that ) What do you think I am?
BONNIE: ( really offended by that ) What do you think I am?
CLYDE: ( right on the nose ) A waitress.
BONNIE: ( slightly startled by his accuracy, anxious to get back now that he is temporarily one-up ) What line of work are you in? When you're not stealin' cars?
CLYDE: ( mysteriously ) I tell you, I'm lookin' for suitable employment right at the moment.
BONNIE: What did you do before?
CLYDE: ( coolly, knowing its effect ) I was in State Prison.
BONNIE: State Prison?
CLYDE: ( herself again ) Guess some little old lady wasn't so nice.
BONNIE: ( herself again ) Guess some little old lady wasn't so nice.
CLYDE: ( tough ) It was armed robbery.
BONNIE: ( sarcastically ) My, my, the things that turn up in the driveway these days.
CLYDE: What do y'all do for a good time around here, listen to the grass Guess you had a lot more fun up at State Prison, huh?
BONNIE: Guess you had a lot more fun up at State Prison, huh?
CLYDE: ( showing off, but seriously ) See this foot? ( pointing at his right foot ) I chopped two toes off of it. With an axe.
BONNIE: ( shocked ) What? Why?
CLYDE: To get off the damn work detail, that's why. Want to see?
BONNIE: ( a lady of some sensitivity ) ( turning a cute ) I surely don't intend to stand here and look at your dirty feet in the middle of Main Street.
BONNIE: Boy, did you really do that?
CLYDE: You must be crazy.
BONNIE: You must be crazy.
BONNIE: What's it like?
CLYDE: ( very interested ) No, armed robbery.
BONNIE: ( very interested ) No, armed robbery.
CLYDE: ( he thinks it a silly question ) It's.I don't know.it isn't like ( thinking she's heard proof that he's a liar ) Hah! I knew you never robbed bo place, you faker.
BONNIE: ( thinking she's heard proof that he's a liar ) Hah! I knew you never robbed bo place, you faker.
CLYDE: ( challenged ) Oh, yeah? ( studies her, then makes up his mind to show her )
BONNIE: ( goading him on ) Yeah, well you got one all right, I guess.but you wouldn't have the gumption to use it.
CLYDE: ( picking up the challenge, proving himself ) You just keep your eyes open.
BONNIE: Hey, what's your name, anyway?
CLYDE: ( he slams the hood ) Clyde Barrow.
BONNIE: ( loud, to make herself heard over the gunning motor ) Hi, I'm Bonnie Parker. Please to meet you.
BONNIE: ( kissing, biting ) .You ready?.
CLYDE: ( muffled, laughing ) .Hey, wait.
BONNIE: ( giggling herself ) Aren't you ready? Well, get ready!
BONNIE: ( muffled ) C'mon, honey, c'mon, boy.let's ( muffled ) Hey.hey, wait a minute.quit that now, cut it out. ( sharply ) I said, cut it out!
CLYDE: ( muffled ) Hey.hey, wait a minute.quit that now, cut it out. ( sharply ) I said, cut it out!
CLYDE: ( trying to be casual, even insouciant ) Look, I don't do that. It's not that I can't ( his voice cracks, the match burns his fingers, and he bangs his head onto roof of car, and he goes right on ) it's just that I don't see no percentage in it.
BONNIE: ( finally, spitting out smoke ) ( a little annoyed ) Boy, what?
CLYDE: ( a little annoyed ) Boy, what?
BONNIE: Your advertising is dandy. Folks'd just never guess you don't have a thing to sell. You better take me home, now.
CLYDE: ( getting back into car ) Don't touch me!
BONNIE: Don't touch me!
CLYDE: ( almost shouting ) If all you want's stud service, then get on back to West Dallas and stay there the rest of your life!
CLYDE: But you're worth more'n that, a lot more, and you know it, and that's why you come along with me. You could find a lover boy on every corner in town and it doesn't make a damn to them whether you're waiting on tables or picking cotton, so long as you cooperate. But it does make a damn to me!
BONNIE: ( turning, intrigued ) Why? Because you're different! You're like me and you want different things.
CLYDE: Why? Because you're different! You're like me and you want different things.
CLYDE: ( continuing ) You and me travelin' together, we could cut clean acrost this state, and Kansas, too, and maybe dip into Oklahoma, and Missouri or whatnot, and catch ourselves highpockets and a highheeled ol' time. We can be somethin' we could never be alone. I'll show you.when we walk into the Adolphus Hotel in San Antone', you wearin' a silk dress, they'll be waitin' on you and believe me, sugar, they're gonna know your last
BONNIE: When'd you figure that all out?
CLYDE: First time I saw you.
BONNIE: How come?
CLYDE: ( intensely, with real honesty ) 'Cause you may be the best damn girl in Texas.
BONNIE: Who are you, anyway?
CLYDE: ( not answering her, preferring to lead the conversation ) I'll tell you about you.
CLYDE: Lessee.You were born somewheres around East Texas.got a big old family, right?.You went to school, of course, but you didn't take to it much 'cause you was a lot smarter than everybody else anyway. So you just quit. Now. .When you were sixteen.no, seventeen, there was a guy who worked in.uh.
BONNIE: ( fascinated ) Cement plant
CLYDE: Right. Cement plant. And you liked him 'cause he thought you was just as nice as you could be. You almost married that guy, but then.you thought, no, you didn't think you would. So you got your job in the cafe. And every morning you wake up and you hate it. You just hate it. And you get down there and you put on your white uniform
BONNIE: ( enthralled ) And the truck drivers come in to eat greasy burgers and they kid you and you kid them back, but they're stupid and dumb, boys with big tattoos all over 'em, and you don't like it.And they ask you for dates and sometimes you go.but you mostly don't, and all they ever try is to get into your pants whether you want to or not.and you go home and sit in your room and think, when and how will I ever get away from this?.And now you
CLYDE: And the truck drivers come in to eat greasy burgers and they kid you and you kid them back, but they're stupid and dumb, boys with big tattoos all over 'em, and you don't like it.And they ask you for dates and sometimes you go.but you mostly don't, and all they ever try is to get into your pants whether you want to or not.and you go home and sit in your room and think, when and how will I ever get away from this?.And now you
CLYDE: ( pointing at her hair ) Change that. I don't like it.
CLYDE: God, you're a knockout.
BONNIE: Hey, that ain't ours.
CLYDE: Sure it is.
BONNIE: But we came in this one.
CLYDE: Don't mean we have to go home in it.
BONNIE: She starts to panic and runs to the window.
BONNIE: ( continuing )
CLYDE: Hey, lady.
BONNIE: ( chagrined at her fear ) Where you been keeping yourself?
CLYDE: Slept out by the car.
BONNIE: Oh.These accommodations ain't particularly deluxe.
CLYDE: No.If they're after us, I want the first shot. Come on, you got some work to do.
BONNIE: You're good.
CLYDE: The best.
BONNIE: And modest.
CLYDE: Come on. Got you all set up over
CLYDE: Set her spinnin'.
CLYDE: Again. Come down slow with it.
CLYDE: Ain't you something? I tell you I'm going to get you a Smith and Wesson, it'll be easier in your hand. Now try it again once.
FARMER: CLYDE whirls at the sound. He grabs gun from BONNIE because his is empty. He aims at FARMER.
FARMER: ( frightened ) No sir.no sir. You all go right
FARMER: ( continuing ) Used to be my place. Not any more. Bank took it.
FARMER: Yessir, moved us off. Now it belongs to them.
BONNIE: Well, that's a pitiful shame. You're damned right, ma'm.
FARMER: ( bitterly ) You're damned right, ma'm.
FARMER: ( nodding toward Negro ) Me and him put in the years here. Yessir. So you all go right ahead. We just come by for a last look.
FARMER: You all mind?
FARMER: Hey, Davis! Come on over here.
FARMER: ( continuing ) Much obliged.
FARMER: Otis Harrison. And this here's Davis. We worked this place.
CLYDE: ( formally ) Miss Bonnie Parker. And I'm Clyde
CLYDE: ( continuing ) We rob banks.
CLYDE: You just stay in the car and watch and be ready. Okay now? You just be ready if I need you.
CLYDE: They drive in silence.
BONNIE: They drive in silence.
CLYDE: What are you thinkin' about?
BONNIE: EXT. BUSINESS STREET OF A LITTLE TOWN. DAY. We are still in the car. BONNIE pulls over and stops by the bank. CLYDE is frozen in his seat. We can see that, for all his talk, he is scared, too.
BONNIE: What are you waitin' for?
CLYDE: ( with a swagger ) This is a stickup. Just take it easy and nothin' will happen to you. Gimme the money.
TELLER: ( looking up with no fear, his voice calm and conversational ) ( nonplussed at this ) Gimme the money!
CLYDE: ( nonplussed at this ) Gimme the money!
TELLER: What money? There ain't no money here, mister.
CLYDE: ( totally befuddled at the turn of events ) What do you mean there ain't no money? This here is a bank, ain't
TELLER: This was a bank. We failed three weeks ago.
CLYDE: ( furious ) What? What??
CLYDE: ( shoving the teller forward ) Tell her! Tell her!
TELLER: ( acting like a man who has had his sleep interrupted by lunatics ) As I was tellin' this gentleman, our bank failed last month and ain't no money in it. I sure am
CLYDE: ( steaming ) We got $1.98 and you're laughin'.
CLYDE: Keep it running.
CLYDE: Give me a loaf of bread, a dozen eggs and a quart of milk.
CLYDE: This is a stickup. I'll take all the money in that drawer now.
CLYDE: Get the hell out of here!
CLYDE: Damn him, that big son of a bitch. He tried to kill me. I ain't got eyes in back of my head. I didn't want to hurt him. It wasn't a real robbery. Some food and a little bit of dough. I'm not against him.
CLYDE: What was wrong, anyway?
CLYDE: You just blowed it away.
BONNIE: Well.I'm not sure. Say, them little red things there stickin' up? Are they gas pumps?
BONNIE: Isn't that interesting? How does that there gasoline get in my little old car?
BONNIE: My, you're a smart fellow. You sure know a lot about automobiles, don't you?
BONNIE: Well, would you know what kind of a car this is?
BONNIE: No, no.
BONNIE: No, this is a stolen Chevrolet 8- cylinder coupe.
CLYDE: ( getting in the conversation ) You ain't scared, are you? ( to Bonnie ) I believe he is. What a pity. We sure coulda used a smart boy who knows such a great deal about ( suddenly business- like, to C.W. ) You a good driver, boy?
CLYDE: ( pretending to cool on him ) No, I don't think so. He's better off here.
BONNIE: What's your name, boy?
BONNIE: What's the C.W. for?
BONNIE: I'm Miss Bonnie Parker and this is Mr. Clyde Barrow. We. rob.
CLYDE: ( swiftly, testing his mettle ) Ain't nothing wrong with that, is there, boy?
BONNIE: ( with a put-on sigh ) No, he ain't the one.
CLYDE: Unless, Boy, you think you got enough guts for our line of work?
BONNIE: Oh, a man with a record!
CLYDE: ( laughs ) Now look here, I know you got the nerve to short-change old ladies who come in for gas, but what I'm askin' you is have you got what it takes to pull bank jobs with us?
BONNIE: Mr. C.W. Moss?
CLYDE: Prove it.
BONNIE: ( incredulously ) C.W., what are you doing? Why do you do that?
BONNIE: It's just disgusting, that's why.
BONNIE: But.but it makes everything sweet!
BONNIE: Clyde, why does he have to stay in the same room as us?
CLYDE: Lemme show you about tomorrow.
BONNIE: Now C.W.'ll be waitin' right outside in the car. Here is the teller's cage. Four of them and over here the desks and what have Why, Clyde.
CLYDE: Now C.W.'ll be waitin' right outside in the car. Here is the teller's cage. Four of them and over here the desks and what have Why, Clyde.
BONNIE: Why, Clyde.
CLYDE: In the same room with us?
BONNIE: In the same room with us?
CLYDE: Hell, where else? Ain't gonna spread out all over the state.
CLYDE: ( continuing ) Not yet, anyway. Now, the door to the bank is here now. You cover me from there.
BONNIE: ( takes his hand to her face ) Just that I love you so much.
CLYDE: You're the best damn girl in Texas.
CLYDE: ( eating ) The layout for tomorrow up in Mineola? Gosh, that's four, five hundred miles from here!
CLYDE: So what? We take U.S. 85 to Willis Point, don't you know, and cut over on State Highway 28 at Kaufman, keep on goin' till we hit the farm- to-market road that connects to 105 and that's right up by Mineola. On a Saturday afternoon.
CLYDE: Keep it running.
CLYDE: ( in a very quiet voice ) This is a stickup.
TELLER: This is a stickup.
CLYDE: This is a stickup.
CLYDE: Let's go! Let's go!
CLYDE: Come on! Get it out!
MAN: CLYDE fires through the window. Close-up ( special effects ). The face of the man explodes in blood. Then he drops out of sight.
CLYDE: Boy, you gotta be poor in the head. You.! Count of you I killed a man. Murder.you too.
CLYDE: ( continuing ) Dumb ass stupid.
CLYDE: Ever do a dumb thing like that again, I'll kill you boy!
BONNIE: Ssshh! If you boys want to talk why don't you go outside?
BONNIE: What do you think of me, C.W.?
BONNIE: ( coyly ) Why'nt you come get it?
BONNIE: ( wiggling the washcloth like a bull-fighter's cape ) Whyn't you come get it, C.W.?
BONNIE: ( pertly ) All right, I'll bring it myself.
BONNIE: ( irritated with herself for even thinking of such a thing ) You simpleton, what would you do if we just pulled out some night while you was asleep?
BONNIE: That's right, C.W. We'll always be around to take care of you.
CLYDE: ( quietly ) Bonnie, I want to talk to you. Sit
CLYDE: ( continuing ) This afternoon we killed a man and we were seen. Now nobody knows who you are yet, but they're going to be after me and anybody who's runnin' with me. Now that's murder now and it's gonna get rough. ( BONNIE nods. CLYDE continues speaking carefully and gently. ) Look, I can't get out, but right now you still can. You say the word and I'll put you on the bus to go back to your Mother. 'Cause you mean a lot to me, honey, and I ain't going to make you run with me. So if you want, you say the word.
CLYDE: ( as he pauses ) Why? We ain't gonna have a minute's
BONNIE: Oh, pshaw.
CLYDE: ( trying to make her see the seriousness of it ) Bonnie, we could get killed.
BONNIE: ( death has no reality for her ) Who'd wanna kill a sweet young thing like me?
CLYDE: ( amused in spite of himself ) I ain't no sweet young thing.
BONNIE: Oh, Clyde, I can't picture you with a halo, and if you went to the other place you'd rob the Devil blind, so he'd kick you right back to me.
BUCK: ( singing ) "What a beautiful thought I am Concernin' that great speckled Remember his name is recorded on the pages of God's Holy word."
BLANCHE: All right, now you did foolish things as a young man, honey-love, but you went and paid your debt to society and that was right. But now you just gettin' back in with the criminal element.
BUCK: Criminal element! This is my brother, darlin'. Shoot, he ain't no more criminal than you are, Well, that ain't what I heard.
BLANCHE: Well, that ain't what I heard.
BUCK: Now word of mouth just don't go, darlin', you gotta have the facts. Shoot. Why he and me growed up together, slept and worked side by God, what a boy he was!
BLANCHE: He's a crook.
BUCK: ( chidingly ) Now you stop bad-mouthin' him, Blanche. We're just gonna have us a little family visit for a few weeks and then we'll go back to Dallas and I'll get me a job I just ain't gonna work in your Daddy's churchThat's final. ( laughing it off, singing ) "What a beautiful thought I am Concernin' that great speckled
CLYDE: ( hugging him ) Clyde! You son of a bitch!
BUCK: Clyde! You son of a bitch!
CLYDE: How's ma? How's sister?
BUCK: Just fine, just fine. Send their best to you.
CLYDE: ( patting Buck's stomach ) Hey, you're fillin' out there. Must be that prison food.
BUCK: Hell no! It's married life. You know what they say, it's the face powder that gets a man interested, but it's the baking powder that keeps him at Hey! you gotta meet my wife. Hey, honey, c'mon out here now and meet my baby brother. Howdy-do. It's real nice to know
BLANCHE: ( suspiciously, quite the grand lady ) ( shaking her hand ) Howdy-do. It's real nice to know
CLYDE: ( shaking her hand ) Howdy-do. It's real nice to know
BUCK: ( grabbing her ) Well! You must be Bonnie! Now I hear you been takin' good care of the baby in the family. Well sis, I'm real glad to meet you! ( he hugs her; BONNIE just lets herself be hugged ) ( breaking the hug ) I'd like you to meet my wife, ( stiffly ) ( stiffly )
BONNIE: ( stiffly ) ( stiffly )
BLANCHE: ( stiffly )
CLYDE: Everybody, this is C.W. Moss. C.W., my brother Buck and his wife, Heighdy, y'all.
BUCK: Hey, lemme get the Kodak!
CLYDE: ( lighting up a cigar ) Hey, C.W., go put your pants on. We're gonna take some pictures.
BUCK: Y'all hear about the guy who thought Western Union was a cowboy's
BONNIE: Lemme get one of my bride and my Buck! Don't take my picture now. I'm just a mess from driving all day.
BLANCHE: ( getting kittenish, and overdoing it ) Buck! Don't take my picture now. I'm just a mess from driving all day.
BUCK: Oh honey, now you look real fine.
BLANCHE: ( with unbecoming girlish outrage ) Did you take my picture? Oh Buck! I declare ( pulling out his gun and posing like a movie tough ) Hey, Buck, get one of this.
CLYDE: ( pulling out his gun and posing like a movie tough ) Hey, Buck, get one of this.
BUCK: ( giving Clyde the camera ) Clyde, you do one of me and my
CLYDE: ( throwing her a challenge ) Let me take on of Bonnie.
BONNIE: ( she yanks the cigar from Clyde's mouth, smokes it and poses )
BUCK: ( drawing Clyde aside ) Hey, brother, let's you and me do a little talkin'.
CLYDE: ( handing C.W. the camera ) Here, C.W., take the girls' picture.
BUCK: ( as soon as the door is shut; conspiratorially ) It was you or him, wasn't it?
CLYDE: That guy you killed. You had to, didn't ya?
BUCK: That guy you killed. You had to, didn't ya?
CLYDE: ( they are protecting each other ) Yeah, he put me in a spot, so I had to. He didn't have a Chinaman's But you had to
BUCK: But you had to
CLYDE: Yeah. I had to.
BUCK: ( like two kids keeping a secret from Mom ) Don't say nothin' to Blanche about Hey, that time you broke out of jail, she talk you into goin' back?
CLYDE: Hey, that time you broke out of jail, she talk you into goin' back?
BUCK: ( it is obvious he had hoped Clyde hadn't known about it ) Yeah, you hear about that?
CLYDE: I won't say nothin' to Bonnie about I appreciate it.
BUCK: I appreciate it.
CLYDE: Yeah.say, what d'ya think of She's a real peach.
BUCK: She's a real peach.
BUCK: Boy, are we gonna have us a good We surely are!
CLYDE: ( matching his merriment ) We surely are!
BUCK: ( a pause, then: ) What are we gonna do?
CLYDE: Well, how's thisI thought we'd all go to Missouri. They ain't lookin' for me there. We'll hole up someplace and have us a regular vacation. All right?
BUCK: No trouble, now?
CLYDE: No trouble. I ain't lookin' to go back to prison.
BUCK: Hey, what's this I hear about you cuttin' up your toes, boy?
CLYDE: ( ironically ) That ain't but half of it. I did it so I could get off work detail breakin' those damned rocks with a hammer day and night. Sure enough, next week I got paroled. I walked out of that god-forsaken jail on Ain't life grand?
BUCK: Ain't life grand?
CLYDE: Ain't life grand?
BUCK: And the doc, he takes him aside, says, "Son, your old mama just gettin' weak and sickly layin' there. I want you to persuade her to take a little Brandy, y'know, to pick her spirits up." "Why, doc," he says, "you know my mamma is a teetotaler. She wouldn't touch a drop." "Well, I tell you what," the doc says, "why don't you bring her a fresh quart of milk every day from your farm, 'cept you fix it up so half of it's Brandy and don't let on!" So he does that, doctors it up with Brandy, and his mamma drinks some of it.
BUCK: I give him a month's rent in advance. We're all set. Let's get
CLYDE: Pull up and unload the stuff.
BUCK: ( on the running board of moving car ) Honey-love, I'm taking you into our first home.
BLANCHE: Oh look, it's so clean, Buck. And a Frigidaire.not an icebox!
BUCK: He give me the grocery number.
BUCK: ( continuing ) Lemme see, eh 4337.Operator. please ma'm, may I have 4337.if you please?
BLANCHE: Oh.they got linoleum on the counter. Ain't that clever!
BUCK: Hello, Smitty's grocery.I'd like to order a mess of groceries. Oh yeah.eh 143 Hillsdale Street. Lessee, about 8 pounds of porkchops, 4 pounds of red beans.a can of Chase and Sandborn.uh.
BLANCHE: Oh, isn't this something, Daddy!
BUCK: Sshh. Uh.quart of milk.uh 8 bottles of Dr. Pepper and that's it, I guess. No.no. Uh.a box of Rice Krispies.Bye now.
BUCK: Boy, you ain't never gonna beat me but you keep tryin' now.
BLANCHE: Jest like an ol' man. Plays checkers all the time and doesn't pay any attention to his poor lonely wife.
BUCK: Cut it out now, honey. I'm gonna teach this boy a lesson he'll never
BONNIE: ( doing an unmerciful imitation ) Oh, Daddy, you shore need a haircut. You look just like a little old hillbilly boy, I do declare. ( she has her other hand toying with the buttons on his shirt, her hand slipping under, fluttering across his bare chest ) Oh mercy me, oh my stars!
BONNIE: ( a little louder ) Oh, Daddy! Yore such a slowpoke!
CLYDE: ( amused, but cautionary ) Hush up a little. They're in the next room.
BONNIE: ( a mock-pout, but with an edge to it ) Shoot, there's always somebody in this room, the next room and ever' other kind of room.
CLYDE: Oof!.now that ain't no nice way to talk about my brother.
BONNIE: ( imitating Blanche again with baby talk ) I ain't talking about your brother. Honey, do you ever just want to be alone with Me? ( sensing Clyde's sensitivity to the sexual implication ) I don't just mean like that.I mean do you ever have the notion of us bein' out together and alone, like at some fancy ball, or, I don't know, where we walk in all dressed and they announce us and it's fancy and in public, but we're alone somehow. We're separate from everybody else, and they know it.
BONNIE: Honey, do you ever just want to be alone with Me? I don't just mean like that.I mean do you ever have the notion of us bein' out together and alone, like at some fancy ball, or, I don't know, where we walk in all dressed and they announce us and it's fancy and in public, but we're alone somehow. We're separate from everybody else, and they know it.
CLYDE: I always feel like we're separate from everybody else.
BONNIE: ( it's terribly important to her ) Do you, baby?
BONNIE: ( to all ) Quiet! I'll get it.
BONNIE: Who is it?
VOICE: Groceries, M'am.
BONNIE: How much?
YOUNG MAN: Six dollars and forty-three cents.
YOUNG MAN: Here, M'am, them bags is heavy. Let me carry 'em up for you.
BONNIE: ( curtly ) No thanks, I'll take 'em.
BUCK'S VOICE: What was it?
CLYDE'S VOICE: Quiet. Open the door.
BONNIE: C'mon, c'mon.
BONNIE: ( reading from a pad; in a recital voice ) It's called "The Ballad of Suicide ( she pauses for effect; then begins: ) "We each of us have a good alibi For being down here in the 'joint'; But few of them really are justified If you get right down to the point. You've heard of a woman's glory Being spent on a downright cur'."
BONNIE: You want to hear this or not?
BONNIE: "Still you can't always judge the As true, being told by her. Now 'Sal' was a gal of rare beauty, Though her features were coarse and Yeah, I knew her. She was cockeyed and had a hare-lip and no teeth!
BUCK: Yeah, I knew her. She was cockeyed and had a hare-lip and no teeth!
BONNIE: "Now 'Sal' was a gal of rare Though her features were coarse and She never once faltered from duty To play on the 'up and up'."
BONNIE: ( o.s. as we see out the window ) "Sal told me this tale on the Before she was turned out free, And I'll do my best to relate it Just as she told it to me"
CLYDE: ( seeing it ) It's the law.
BONNIE: Dammit, you almost got us killed!
BLANCHE: ( crying ) What did I do wrong? I s'pose you'd be happier if I got shot.
BONNIE: ( at her bitchiest ) Yeah, it would of saved us all a lot of trouble.
BLANCHE: Buck, don't let that woman talk to me like that!
BUCK: ( caught in the middle of a bad situation, knowing Blanche is wrong, but trying to soothe her ) You shouldn't have done it, Blanche. ( quietly, cont. ) It was a dumb thing to do.
BLANCHE: ( switching tactics ) Please, Buck, I didn't marry you to see you shot up! Please, let's go! Let's get out of here and leave. Make him stop the car and let us out!
BUCK: ( still quietly ) Can't. I killed a man. We're in this now.
BLANCHE: ( loud and shrill ) Please! Please!
BONNIE: ( exploding ) Shut up! Just shut up your big mouth! At least do that, will ya, just shut up.
CLYDE: Cut it out, Bonnie.
BONNIE: ( curtly ) Stop the car. I want to talk to you.
CLYDE: ( coldly ) What is it?
BONNIE: Get rid of her.
CLYDE: Can't do that. She's Buck's wife.
BONNIE: ( snapping her words ) Get rid of both of them then.
CLYDE: Why? What's the matter with you She's what's the matter with me, a damn stupid back country hick without a brain in her head. She ain't nothin' but prunes and What makes you any better? What makes you so damn special? You're just a West Dallas waitress who spent half your time pickin' up truck drivers!
BONNIE: She's what's the matter with me, a damn stupid back country hick without a brain in her head. She ain't nothin' but prunes and What makes you any better? What makes you so damn special? You're just a West Dallas waitress who spent half your time pickin' up truck drivers!
CLYDE: ( really pissed-off at Bonnie ) What makes you any better? What makes you so damn special? You're just a West Dallas waitress who spent half your time pickin' up truck drivers!
BONNIE: ( raising her voice ) You talk to me like that! Big Clyde Barrow, just the same as your brother, an ignorant uneducated ( with deadly archness ) Only special thing about you is your peculiar ideas about lovemakin'which is no love makin' at all.
CLYDE: Look, Bonnie
BONNIE: Clyde.honey.I didn't mean all that, honey. Blame it on all that shootin', I just felt so bad.sure Okay.Okay, hon.let's get
CLYDE: Okay.Okay, hon.let's get
BUCK: ( jubilantly ) Hey, y'all, listen to this here: Law enforcement officers throughout the Southwest are frankly amazed at the way in which will-of-the-wisp bandit Clyde Barrow and his yellow- haired companion, Bonnie Parker, continue to elude their would-be captors. Since engaging the police in a gun battle on the streets of Joplin Missouri and slaying three of their number.
BLANCHE: Oh, Lord.
BUCK: .the Barrow gang has been reported as far West as White City, New Mexico, and as far north as Chicago. They have been credited with robbing the Mesquite Bank in the aforementioned White City, the J.J. Landry Oil Refinery in Arp, Texas, the Sanger City National Bank in Denton, Texas on three different occasions. In addition to these robberies, the fast travelling Barrows have been rumored to have had a hand in the robbing of two Piggly Wiggly stores in Texas, and one A&P store in Missouri, though Chief Percy Hammond, who first identified Clyde Barrow's brother, Buck, as a member of the gang, expressed some doubt that these last robberies were committed by the Barrow Gang alone.
BONNIE: Go on.
BUCK: ( with a laugh ) Hey now, here's something! Listen here: Lone Cop Arrests Two Officers In Hunt For Barrow. Police Officer Howard Anderson's heart turned faster than his motorcycle when he forced to the side of the road a roaring black V-8 sedan in which were three men and a blondheaded woman yesterday afternoon.
BUCK: When he saw several machine guns in the car he was certain he'd caught Clyde Barrow, Bonnie Parker, and maybe Buck Barrow and the third unidentified member of the gang. It took a lot of telephoning and explaining to convince the motorcycle cop that his captives were two highway patrolmen and a blonde-haired stenographer from the Highway Patrol. Haw! Haw!
BUCK: Anderson was held up as an example for every other Texas peace officer today. "That was a mighty brave thing," explained Highway Patrol Chief L.C. Winston.
CLYDE: BRYCE spins around. Both men fire instanteously, but CLYDE has the draw on him, and the aim. The gun goes flying from the SHERIFF's hand. A really razzle-dazzle display of grandstand marksmanship from Clyde. Immediately the gang leaps from the car and surrounds the man, guns drawn.
BUCK: Sweet Jesus, I never seen shootin' like that!
CLYDE: ( examining the man's wallet, really surprised ) Well, now, getta load of this. I want y'all to know we are in the custody of Cap'n Frank Bryce, and Frank here is a Texas Ranger.
BUCK: Say there, peacemaker. I believe you got your spurs all tangled up. You're in Missouri, you know that? You didn't know you was in Missouri?
CLYDE: You didn't know you was in Missouri?
CLYDE: ( a little pissed ) he ain't lost.them banks are offerin' extra reward money fer us, and Frank figured on easy pickin's, didn't you? ( he suddenly knocks Bryce's hat off ) Didn't you?
CLYDE: Now you ain't hardly doin' your job, Texas Ranger. You oughta be home lookin' after the rights of poor folks, not out chasin' after us.
BUCK: ( trying to be casual ) Easy there, Clyde. Why take is so ( to Bryce ) Reg'lar laws is one thing. But this here bounty hunting, we got to discourage that.
CLYDE: ( to Bryce ) Reg'lar laws is one thing. But this here bounty hunting, we got to discourage that.
BUCK: Like how, Clyde?
BONNIE: ( suddenly ) uh-uh. Take his picture.
BONNIE: ( pointedly ignoring C.W., brightly ) Then we'll let the newspapers have itso's everyone can see Captain Frank Bryce of the Texas Rangers with the Barrow gang ( moving demurely to Bryce ) and all bein' just as friendly as ( grasping possibilities immediately ) .yeah, yeah.
BUCK: ( grasping possibilities immediately ) .yeah, yeah.
BONNIE: ( continuing right on, coyly picking up Bryce's gun from grill ) why we 'bout the friendliest folks in the world. Texas Ranger waves his big ol' gun at us, and we just welcome him like he's one of our own.
CLYDE: ( grinning widely ) Buck, get the Kodak!
BUCK: ( relieved and excited ) Hot dog!
CLYDE: ( to Bryce ) We're mighty proud to have a Texas Ranger in the family.
BUCK: .keep him set on the hood, there.more to the sun, like that.yeah.when all his ranger friends see this.I bet he's gonna wish he was dead!
CLYDE: ( to Bryce ) .see what come o' your mischief?.not doin' your job? Down in Duncanville last year poor farmers kepts the laws away from us with shot guns.you're s'posed to be protectin' them from us, and they're protectin' us from you. ( giggling ) don't make sense, do it?
BUCK: C'mon, now, Clyde, you and Bonnie first. Move into him, right close, right friendly.
CLYDE: All righty Don't move, now, hear?
BONNIE: How's this? "Captain Bryce and new found friend."
CLYDE: .yeah, yeah.quick, Buck, get .I'm gettin' it, I'm gettin' it.
BUCK: .I'm gettin' it, I'm gettin' it.
BUCK: ( frantic ) I got the picture. I got the ( oblivious ) Lemme be, lemme be.
CLYDE: ( oblivious ) Lemme be, lemme be.
BUCK: ( holding tightly to Clyde, yelling ) I got the PICTURE!
CLYDE: .All right, all right.
CLYDE: This is the Barrow gang. Everybody just take it easy and nobody will get hurt.
BUCK: Don't do nothin' silly now.
CLYDE: That your money or the bank's?
FARMER: Keep it, then.
CLYDE: Keep it, then.
CLYDE: ( to the guard, who has practically frozen in fear ) Next time I'll aim a little lower.
BUCK: Get a good look at us! We're the Barrow boys.
BUCK: Happy birthday.
BUCK: ( to C.W. at the wheel ) Kick it in the pants, C.W.
CLYDE: We got to make that state line!
BANK GUARD: ( enjoying the limelight ) Then he saw me goin' for my gun. Clyde Barrow himself, I mean. And suddenly I was starin' into the face of death!
WOMAN TELLER: Tsk, tsk.
PHOTOGRAPHER: Just look this way, Mr. Hawkins.
FIRST POLICEMAN: Step on it, Randolph. We gotta catch 'em 'fore they reach the state line!
FARMER: Clyde?.he looked like, well he looked real.clean.and Bonnie, she's too much a lady ever to be caught with a cigar in her mouth.I don't care what you heard before. I saw 'em right here, not twenty minutes ago. and all's I can say is, they did right by me, and I'm bringin' me a mess of flowers to their funeral.
CLYDE: Okay, relax. We're in Oklahoma now. Slow down.
FIRST POLICEMAN: Turn around. Don't waste no more Ain't we gone to catch 'em?
SECOND POLICEMAN: ( a young eager beaver type ) Ain't we gone to catch 'em?
FIRST POLICEMAN: Hell, they're over the State line. That's out of our jurisdiction.
SECOND POLICEMAN: Why don't we get 'em anyway?
FIRST POLICEMAN: I ain't gone to risk my life in Oklahoma. That's their problem.
CLYDE: ( disappointed ) Hell. That ain't much, is it?
BUCK: ( commiseratingly ) Times is hard,
CLYDE: Well, let's get to it.
CLYDE: This is Clyde Barrow. Buck Barrow. Bonnie Parker.C.W. Clyde, Buck.Bonnie.C.W. Clyde, Clyde again.Buck.Bonnie.C.W.
CLYDE: ( very ill at east in this position he has been forced into )
BUCK: ( very ill at east in this position he has been forced into )
CLYDE: BUCK is clearly embarrassed.
BUCK: Uh, Clyde.well.what about
BONNIE: ( incredulous )
WHAT?: BLANCHE sees she has to rise to her own defense, and she rises to the occasion with spirit and verve.
BLANCHE: Well, why not? Say I earned my share! Same as everybody. I coulda got killed same as everybody, and I'm wanted by the law same as everybody. Besides I coulda got snake bit sleepin' in them woods every night! I'm just a nervous wreck and that's the truth. And I have to listen to sass from Miss Bonnie Parker all the time. I deserve mine!
CLYDE: ( with a sigh ) Okay.okay.hold your horses, Blanche. You'll get your share.
BUCK: Married a preacher's daughter and she still thinks she's takin' the
BUCK: ( to Blanche ) Well, don't spend it all in one place now, hear?
BONNIE: She'll be doin' right well to spend it at all.
CLYDE: No answer.
CLYDE: ( a little defensive ) Look, Bonnie, I've said it and I guess I'll keep sayin' it before we're thruBlanche is Buck's wife and Buck is family.
BONNIE: ( finally, utterly without malice ) she's such a silly-Billy.
BONNIE: My family could use some of that Them laws have been hangin' round your mamas house 'til all hours, Bonnie. It's just too risky to go Well, where can we go? We rob the damn banks, what else do we do?
CLYDE: Them laws have been hangin' round your mamas house 'til all hours, Bonnie. It's just too risky to go Well, where can we go? We rob the damn banks, what else do we do?
BONNIE: ( exploding ) Well, where can we go? We rob the damn banks, what else do we do?
CLYDE: ( wincing as they are nose to nose ) I hear you, C.W.
WOMAN: Oh, now.now, dear.
MAN: Mmmm.sweet thing.
WOMAN: Say, isn't that your car, Eugene?
MAN: ( still nuzzling her ) ( he looks, leaps from the swing ) That's my car! Hey!
EUGENE: I'll tear 'em apart! Those punks! Steal a man's car right out from under him! Wait till I get my hands on those kids, Velma, I'll show 'em! What if they have guns, Eugene?
VELMA: What if they have guns, Eugene?
EUGENE: ( realizing the possibility, he suddenly stops being mad and turns chicken ) We'd better get the police and let them handle this.
VELMA: Turn around and let's get back to town. We'll go get the sheriff.
EUGENE: Turn around and let's get back to town. We'll go get the sheriff.
BUCK: They stopped chasin' us. They turned around.
CLYDE: Let's take 'em.
VELMA: Oh, my Lord, they're comin' after us.
EUGENE: ( in a panic ) Step on it, Velma, step on it!
CLYDE: C'mon, get out! Get out of there, I said.
CLYDE: ( ordering them into the other car ) Get in here.
BUCK: What's your name?
EUGENE: ( hesitantly ) I'm Eugene Grizzard.
VELMA: I'm Velma Davis.
BUCK: ( just as friendly as he can be ) Well, howdy! We're the Barrow gang. That there is Clyde drivin' and I'm
BONNIE: Look, don't be scared, folks. It ain't like you was the law. You're just folks like us.
EUGENE: ( agreeing over-enthusiastically ) Yeah, yeah, that's the truth.
CLYDE: I expect you been readin' about us.
EUGENE: They glare at each other.
VELMA: They glare at each other.
EUGENE: ( meaningfully ) Yes, Velma, we have too.
BONNIE: ( laughing at the contretemps ) Well, you two must be in love, I bet.
BUCK: ( gleefully, clapping his hands ) Well, when you gonna marry the girl, boy?
BONNIE: So then she drinks her milk down again, every drop. And she looks over at her son and says, "Son, whatever you do, don't sell that
BONNIE: ( to Velma ) How old are you, honey?
VELMA: A sudden look of surprise registers on EUGENE's face.
VELMA: Now I ordered some French fries, didn't I?
BUCK: ( passing her some ) Yeah, here you go.
CLYDE: Take it easy on those French fries, Velma. Ain't that right, Eugene?
EUGENE: ( studying his hamburger ) This isn't mine. I ordered mine well done. Who's got the other
EUGENE: That's okay, forget it.
BUCK: ( chewing ) Haw! I sure am havin' a good time! How 'bout you folks? Ain't you glad we picked you up?
CLYDE: ( laughing ) Hey, maybe y'all ought to join up with us.
EUGENE: ( laughing ) Ha! Wouldn't they be surprised back home to hear that?
VELMA: Yeah. What would Martha and Bill say if they heard that?
EUGENE: Lordy! They'd throw a fit!
BONNIE: ( laughing ) What do you do, anyway?
EUGENE: ( as his laugh begins to fade ) I'm an undertaker.
BONNIE: ( tautly, in a flat voice ) Get them out of here.
CLYDE: ( breathing heavily ) .see anythin', Buck?
BUCK: not yet, boy.
CLYDE: ( with an edge of paranoia, as if the three of them might be withholding something from him ) and nobody saw her leave, or heard anythin' ( almost a threat )
.C.W..?: EXT. CAR. MOVING SHOT. DAY. CLYDE gets the point. For the very first time we see CLYDe, the leader, helpless as he hangs onto the running board.
CLYDE: ( lamely ) .Well, where do you think she could've gone?.Buck?.Buck?
BUCK: ( amazed and a little frightened ) Jesus, I don't know.
CLYDE: There! There! There!
BONNIE: Leave me alone! Leave me alone!
CLYDE: ( holding her, kissing her frantically ) Hey.hey, hey, baby, hey, Bonnie, hey baby. ( calming her down ) .Hey, hey now.just where did you think you were goin'?.
CLYDE: ( still frantic ) Huh. Bonnie? Where? Where?
BONNIE: I don't know! You're hurting me, I was just scared is all.and my mama's been on my mind, and she's gettin' so old.
CLYDE: Boy, don't ever leave without sayin' somethin'. You really scared me, Bonnie.
BONNIE: But I mean it, though. I want to see my mama. Please, Clyde.
CLYDE: ( enormously relieved, kissing her ) Okay, sweetheart.
SISTER: Here you are, we been cuttin' and pastin' everything we could find about you in the papers.
BUCK: Hey look, here's that one I took of you, Clyde. That came out just fine!
BUCK: ( singing ) Oh, Horsey! keep your tail up, keep yer tail up, keep yer tail up, Oh, Horsey! keep yer tail up, Why don't you make it rise.
BONNIE'S UNCLE: ( rising ) Where y'all headed from here?
CLYDE: ( right back ) I don't know, what y'all got in mind? At this point we ain't headin' to anywhere, we're just runnin' from.
BONNIE: Don't go yet, Mama.
UNCLE'S VOICE: ( cutting in ) C'mere, c'mere you little corn
MOTHER: .you know, Clyde, I read about y'all in the papers and I'm jes' Sugar, make mama stay a while yet.
BONNIE: ( to Clyde ) Sugar, make mama stay a while yet.
CLYDE: ( ignoring Bonnie, as does Mother, ebulliently, even joshing ) Now Mrs. Parker, don't y'all believe what you read in the papers! That's the law talking there. They want us to look big so's they'll look big when they catch us.
CLYDE: and they can't do that. Why, I'm even better at runnin' than robbin' banksaw shoot, if we done half the stuff they said we did, we'd be millionaires, wouldn't we, old And I wouldn't risk Bonnie here just to make money, uncertain as times are. Why one time I knowed of a job where we could of make $2000 easy, but I saw the law outside and I said to myself, why Bonnie could get hurt here. So I just drove right on and let that money lay.
MOTHER: .Maybe you know the way with her, then. I'm just an old woman and I don't know nothin.
CLYDE: We'll be quittin' this just as soon as the hard times is over, Mother Parker, I can tell you that. Why me and Bonnie were just talkin' the other day and we talked about when we'd settle down and get us a home, and Bonnie said, "I couldn't bear to live morn'n three miles from my precious mother." Now how'd you like that, Mother Parker?
MOTHER: Don't believe I would. I surely You try to live three miles from me and you won't live long, honey. You'd best keep runnin' and you know it, Clyde Barrow. Bye, baby.
BUCK: How long have ya had it?
BUCK: ( to Blanche, who stares fascinated as one of C.W.'s pectoral muscles contracts and the wings flutter ) Touch it, honey! Go on!
BLANCHE: ( titillated with delight ) Oh, no, Daddy! No!
BONNIE: What are you all doin'?
BONNIE: Well, why don't you all go play with it somewhere else?
BLANCHE: What's bothering her?
CLYDE: ( sees something coming ) Not now, Blanche.
BUCK: ( who doesn't want to be victimized by Bonnie's temperament ) What's bothering her, Clyde?
BONNIE: ( exploding ) I said go somewhere else!
CLYDE: ( straightening up, matter-of-fact ) Bonnie's hungry, C.W. I saw a chicken place a few miles back. Who all wants to go get some food?
BLANCHE: ( rising from her chair, a little shaken at Bonnie's outburst ) I sure do. I'm plenty tired of sittin' around here anyway.
BUCK: ( not making a move to get up ) You can't drive, honeylove.
CLYDE: Just five chicken dinners, and get somethin' for dessert.
BUCK: See if they got peach ice cream.
BONNIE: I hate you all.
CLYDE: I hate y'all, too.
BONNIE: no, I really hate you.
BONNIE: ( eyes brimming ) Oh, baby, I've got the blues so
CLYDE: Bonnie?.is it your mama, what your mama said?
BONNIE: What mama?.she's just an old woman now.I have no mama.
BONNIE: ( quietly ) .so funny.I thought when we first went out, we were really goin' somewhere.but this is it we're just goin', huh?
CLYDE: Do you care about where we're goin'?
BONNIE: Not as long as you care about me.
CLYDE: ( quite simply ) Why I love you, sugar.
BONNIE'S VOICE: enough to die with me, baby?. 'cause I think that's where we're goin'.I surely do.
CLYDE: INT. CAR. BLANCHE, her tense and agitated self growing increasingly more so lately, lights a fresh cigarette off the butt of the one she has been smoking.
BLANCHE: ( quick to take offense, snaps ) So what?
BLANCHE: Oh, God.
BLANCHE: ( it's been her dream ) Oh, if I could! If I could just do that one thing! Oh, there's no tellin' why this all happened. I was a preacher's daughter.
BLANCHE: ( much more interested in talking about herself ) Baptist.oh, and he thought the world of Buck, my daddy did, even knowing that Buck was serving time in jail. He forgave him for that 'cause he paid his debt to society.
BLANCHE: Hey, C.W., I ain't got my money. Give me some, will you?
DEPUTY: ( to counterman ) Get Sheriff Smoot on the phone.
BONNIE'S VOICE: CLYDE'S VOICE ( a little embarrassed )
CLYDE'S VOICE: ( a little embarrassed ) Aw Bonnie
BONNIE'S VOICE: ( coaxing )
BONNIE: Lie down now, honey.
CLYDE: I've done enough!
BONNIE: ( with patience, to a child ) You have to lie down.it's the only way we can tell what we'll look kike together.
CLYDE: ( staring up at himself talking with cigar clenched between his teeth ) Whatta you think?
BONNIE: ( it suddenly strikes her ) That's not the right tie!
CLYDE: ( rising, weaving a little ) You can't wear polka-dots on an occasion like this.
BONNIE: ( rising, weaving a little ) You can't wear polka-dots on an occasion like this.
CLYDE: Well what
BONNIE: Stripes. Don't go away now.
BONNIE: She tries to tie it for him, and clearly has trouble with the knot.
CLYDE: OK, o.k. If we're gonna do this, at least I can tie it myself. Lie down before you fall down.
CLYDE: ( grudgingly )
BONNIE: This tickles CLYDE despite himself and he laughsBONNIE begins to sing to himperforming for both CLYDe and her own image in the mirrorlike some hoydenish vaudevillian.
BONNIE: All right, shut your eyes now.
CLYDE: ( playing along with her ) No, you first.
BONNIE: One for the money.
CLYDE: Two for the show.
BONNIE: Three to get ready
BLANCHE: ( calling out ) The men are on the other side.
BLANCHE: Oh, God, please help us! Dear Father in Heaven, get us out of this and Buck will never do another bad thing in his life!
BLANCHE: My eyes! God, I think I'm blind. .light hurts so bad.
BLANCHE: ( clinging ) Please, please get us to a doctor! Tell Clyde to get us to a doctor. We'll die here.
BONNIE: ( helping with glasses ) here, hon'.
BLANCHE: ( going on ) Clyde, Clyde, please get us to a
BLANCHE: He's your brother!
BONNIE: ( gently, knowing CLYDE will not and cannot answer BLANCHE ) Buck can't be moved, now, hon'.
BUCK: ( weakly ) Right here, boy.
CLYDE: Right here, boy.
BUCK: I believe I lost my shoes.maybe the dog hid 'em.
MAN: It is a total surprise. BONNIE, CLYDE and C.W. all grab their guns and fire several shots; they are not firing the big guns now, but the pistols. The man lingers there for a momenthe looks strange, white, luminous, like an apparitionand then he vanishes into the woods. Silence, long enough to make you think it was perhaps an illusion. Then there is a volley of gunfirea noise so large as to be almost an impossible soundcoming from the woods, all around, everywhere.
BLANCHE: Don't kill him! Don't kill him! He's dying! Don't die, Daddy. Don't die!
BLANCHE: Don't die, Daddy. Don't die!
CLYDE: ( panting, to Bonnie ) Saw.saw a farm.up ahead.gotta get.a car.
BONNIE: Baby, no.
BONNIE: They wait for another long moment, picking up only the tiniest sounds.
BONNIE: ( finally ) Oh, no.
BONNIE: ( as though it were the most logical thing in the world ) I can't die without Clyde. I just
CLYDE: Head out, C.W.
MAN: Who are you, boy?
MAN: ( in really hushed and reverent tones ) It's Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow.
BOY: Who was they, Pa?
MAN: That was Bonnie and Clyde, the bank
MALCOLM: Who's there?
MALCOLM: Who's there? Who is it?
MALCOLM: He runs down the steps, down the path to his son. They greet each other, hugging for a second, looking each other He holds C.W. at arm's length to study him, and suddenly he scowls at something he sees by the light of the porch.
MALCOLM: God, it's good to see you, boy!
MALCOLM: What's that on your chest?
MALCOLM: Jesus, what happened to them? You in trouble, son?
MALCOLM: Why'd you get yourself marked up? A tattoo! What in hell made you do a damn fool thing like that?
BILLY: I was in the bunch that took 'er. See here? Can you make me out? Here I am, see here, right behind Joe Boyd here.
PETE: Sure enough, Billy, is that your head there?
BILLY: Still can't figure how we let them other two get away.
PETE: ( an older, more genial type ) Yeah, seems as how nobody can get 'em somehow.
BILLY: ( sullen ) Yeah.well, maybe this boy'll be the one to do it, this Hamer guy. Boy if he can't do it, Sheriff, ain't nobody but the whole U.S. Army can do it.
PETE: ( with a new note of enthusiasm, gets up and walks to the windowturning to Billy ) You hear he quit the Rangers on account of Texas got that woman governor. Said he wouldn't work under no woman.
BILLY: ( respectfully ) Yeah, that's somethin' all right. Say, how many they say he shot anyway in his day?
PETE: Sixty-five they say.
BILLY: Son of a sea-cook!
HAMER: ( with politeness arising from condescension ) Excuse me, am I in the right place? Is this Sheriff Smoot?
PETE: ( mispronouncing his name ) Frank Hammer. I sure am pleased to meet you! ( shakes his hand )
HAMER: EXT. MOSS FARM. CLOSE SHOT NEWSPAPER. DAY. A coil of rope snaps into and through the paper, splitting it and revealing C.W.'s startled face. CLYDE strides the porch angrily, snapping the rope. BONNIE and MALCOLM are seated along with C.W. Through BONNIE has her arm supported by a sling and CLYDE has his shoulder bandagedm it is evident by CLYDE's heady indignation and BONNIE's attentiveness that both are well on the way to Suddenly he moves upon MALCOLM with enormous intent, as if by pounding the point home to the one relative stranger among them, he will justify it all. MALCOLM momentarily flinches, then listens with intense deference.
CLYDE: ( still snapping rope ) FLED? What do they mean, fled? How in the nama God could I leave my brother to die when he was already dead when I left him? ( livid ) He was shot in too many pieces to pick off the ground! Fled.what do they know, the papers or the
CLYDE: Why, while we were all lyin' around here, near dead, they had us holdin' up the Grand Prairie National Bank! They hung that one on us just for luck, I guess.
CLYDE: Tell you what. Soon's we get well, we're gonna take that bank! Whooooooo, boy. They don't know nothin'do they, You did all you could, hon'. Nobody coulda done more.
CLYDE: ( remarking on his own dizziness ) Whooooooo, boy. ( kneeling, to Bonnie ) They don't know nothin'do they, ( assuring him ) You did all you could, hon'. Nobody coulda done more.
BONNIE: ( assuring him ) You did all you could, hon'. Nobody coulda done more.
CLYDE: ( to C.W. ) You can just thank your lucky stars that's all you are. So long's they don't have your last name, you're home safe.
MALCOLM: ( toadying to Clyde, talking to Clarence ) Mr. Barrow's lookin' out for your interests, boy.
MALCOLM: ( friendly as can be ) Ain't that somethin' for me?
CLYDE: ( back in good mood, expansive ) Well now, you been real nice to us, and I tell you what, let us pay you forty dollars for your hospitality, what do you say?
MALCOLM: ( protesting vehemently ) No, no, no. I don't want your money. I'm just pleased to have your company. Any friend of my ( abruptly ) Hey, Pa, let's have supper. I'm ( smiling ) Yeah.okay, Clarence. ( to Clyde ) You're welcome here, now you know
MALCOLM: ( smiling ) Yeah.okay, Clarence. ( to Clyde ) You're welcome here, now you know
MALCOLM: ( indicating tatto which flutters through C.W.'s open shirt ) You look like trash, boy, marked up like that. Cheap trash.
MALCOLM: Bonnie, what does she know. She's just cheap trash herself. Look what they do to you, and you don't even get your name in the paper just pictures put on your skin, by "Bonnie and Clyde" why they're a coupla kids.
MALCOLM: I'm just glad your ma ain't alive to see that thing.
HAMER: ( quietly, but suddenly, his voice muffled by the handkerchief ) Blanche Barrow.
BLANCHE: What? What? Who is it?
HAMER: ( in a monotone, a relentless questioner ) You know your husband's dead.
BLANCHE: ( her voice flat and expressionless ) I know.
HAMER: You're going to prison.
BLANCHE: I know it.
HAMER: Where's the rest of 'em?
BLANCHE: I don't know.
HAMER: Where's the rest of 'em?
BLANCHE: I just don't know. I don't know.
HAMER: How'd you get in with them?
BLANCHE: ( starting slow, but warming up to the subject, she begins to talk and talk for the sake of airing her troubles ) I didn't mean to. I didn't. Buck said we was just goin' to visit, we wouldn't be doin' no robbin' and stealin', and then we went to Joplin and all of a sudden they started shootin'. ( hysteria begins to creep into her voice as she relives it all ) And we run off, God, I was scared. And then it was run all the time, and I wanted to go, I begged to go, but Clyde and Bonnie and C.W.
HAMER: ( seizing on it ) C.W. C.W. who?
BLANCHE: C.W. Moss.
CLYDE: Want a ginger-snap, Bonnie?
BONNIE: ( busy, absorbed ) No, hum-umm. ( then she realizes his nice gesture and smiles warmly at him ) But thanks anyway, Clyde. ( she takes it all in, her situation, and looks content and cozy ) It's real nice here, just the two of us like this.
CLYDE: ( more interested in his paper ) ( something in the paper catches his interest ) Look here, honey, remember this?
BONNIE: Yeah, at the motel.
CLYDE: ( studying the picture ) You sure don't resemble that no more.
CLYDE: What you writin' this time?
BONNIE: ( intensely ) I'm writing a poem about us. I'm writing our story.
CLYDE: ( this appeals to his ego ) Oh, are you? Let's hear it. If it's good, I'll mail it in to the Law and it'll be printed in all the papers again.
BONNIE: Just let me finish this line.
BONNIE: ( continuing ) Okay, here it is.
BONNIE: ( reading ) "The Story of Bonnie and Clyde" You've heard the story of Jesse Of how he lived and died: If you're still in need Of something to read Here's the story of Bonnie and Now Bonnie and Clyde are the Barrow I'm sure you all have read How they rob and steal And those who squeal Are usually found dying or dead. They call them cold-hearted killers; They say they are heartless and But I say this with pride, That I once knew Clyde When he was honest and upright and But the laws fooled around, Kept taking him down And locking him in a cell, Till he said to me, "I'll never be free So I'll meet a few of them in The road was so dimly lighted; There were no highway signs to But they made up their minds If all roads were blind, They wouldn't give up till they died.
HAMER: The road gets dimmer and dimmer; Sometimes you can hardly see; But it's fight man to man, And do all you can, For they know they can never be From heartbreak some people have From weariness some people have But take it all in all, Our troubles are small, Till we get like Bonnie and Clyde.
BONNIE: If they try to act like citizens And rent them a nice little flat About the third night They're invited to fight By a sub-gun's rat-tat-tat. Some day they'll go down together; They'll bury them side by side; To few it'll be grief To the law a relief But it's death for Bonnie and Clyde.
CLYDE: ( in gleeful wonder ) Damn! That's me! ( continuing ) In that poem!
CLYDE: ( continuing ) In that poem!
CLYDE: ( continuing; it is all starting to come out nowhis realization that he has made it, that he is the stuff of legend, that he is an important figure ) A sub-gun's rat-tat-tat! ( he begins to laugh loudly ) Right in the paper!
CLYDE: Jesse James! You hear 'bout old Jesse, now you goin' to hear 'bout
CLYDE: ( continuing )
CLYDE: ( continuing ) Damn, Bonnie! You musta been one hell of a waitress!
CLYDE: ( shaking his head back and forth like a puppy, just so much glee in him that he can't hold it ) Oooooh, that Clyde! That's my boy, that Clyde!
CLYDE: ( she hugs him back ) The Poem of Bonnie and Clyde!
BONNIE: ( laughing at the mistake, happy ) The Story.
CLYDE: The Story of Bonnie and Clyde! Oh, child, you really did tell that
CLYDE: ( chuckling, apparently quite pleased )
CLYDE: ( not looking at her ) Hey, listen, Bonnie, how do you feel?
BONNIE: ( watching him steadily, her slight smile growing ) I mean you feel like you're s'posed to feel after you've uh.
CLYDE: I mean you feel like you're s'posed to feel after you've uh.
BONNIE: ( doesn't know what the fuck to say, desperately wants her approval ) Well, that's good, ain't it. Reason I ask is, I uh. Well, I figger it's a good idea to ask. I mean how else do I tell if I did it the way.
CLYDE: ( doesn't know what the fuck to say, desperately wants her approval ) Well, that's good, ain't it. Reason I ask is, I uh. Well, I figger it's a good idea to ask. I mean how else do I tell if I did it the way.
BONNIE: ( stopping him, with great warmth ) Hey. You done just perfect.
CLYDE: I did, didn't I? I mean I did, I really did. I did it, I did, I mean this was my first time and it was just like rollin' off a log when it comes right down to it, it was easy, I mean I didn't even have to try.
MALCOLM: ( whispering ) Boy, they expect you to go downtown with 'em tomorrow?
MALCOLM: ( raising his own voice, infuriated by his son's obtuseness ) Bonnie and Clyde!. ( he slaps the carton out of C.W.'s hands; whispering again ) Bonnie and Clyde.
MALCOLM: .better go then, you better go, better go. but when they get back in the car to come on home, don't get in with Why, Daddy?
MALCOLM: You just listen to your Pa fer once! Cain't you do that? I'm yore Daddy, I'm your kin, not Clyde.
MALCOLM: ( squeezing C.W.'s arm ) No, you tell them nothin', hear? ( hesitates, then ) I made a deal and got you off with a coupla years!
MALCOLM: ( we can see his own fear ) .the law. Just don't get back in that car. ( eyeball to eyeball ) And whatever you do, don't let onto them, hear?
MALCOLM: What do you think, Clarence?
MALCOLM: ( playing along ) Mebbe. Just you be off'n the streets of that town when they go to get in their car.
CLYDE: ( suddenly ) Bonnie? Bonnie, will you marry me?
BONNIE: How could I do that, Clyde? You know it's impossible. We'd have to go to a Justice of the Peace and the Justice of the Peace is a lawman. We couldn't even take out a license.
CLYDE: ( with a chuckle ) Hey now, you sound like you been givin' it some thought on your own.
BONNIE: ( with a grim irony, her voice getting more and more emotional ) Oh no, I never gave it thought. I haven't thought about it at least ten times a day, I haven't thought about it every minute of my life since I met you. ( suddenly her voice cracks into tears )
CLYDE: ( a bit startled by this, attempting to hold her, awkwardly, and placate her. He puts his arm around her ) Bonnie.are you crying, honey?
BONNIE: ( her face still buried in CLYDE's chest, she whispers ) Clyde, why do you want to marry me?
CLYDE: ( in an attempt to be humorous ) To make an honest woman out of you.
BONNIE: ( finally, in a voice charged with anticipation and dream ) Clyde.what would you do, what would you do it some miracle happened and we could walk out tomorrow morning and start all over again, clean, with no record, with nobody after us?
CLYDE: Well.I guess I'd do it all different. First off, I wouldn't live in the same state where we pull our jobs. We'd live in one state and stay clean there, and when we wanted to take a bank, we'd go to another state.and.
CLYDE: ( continuing )
CLYDE: Hey, Bonnie?
CLYDE: ( looking around ) What happened to C.W.?
BONNIE: He stopped off in that hardware store to get light bulbs for his
CLYDE: Boy, my feet are sweatin'.
BONNIE: ( kidding around ) You plannin' to drive with your shoes off?
CLYDE: Sure, why not?
CLYDE: He puts them on.
BONNIE: ( laughing ) You gonna wear 'em?
CLYDE: Sure, drive with one eye shut.
BONNIE: ( admiring it ) Isn't that the prettiest thing, hon? Just look here, you can see every little fingernail on her hands.
CLYDE: It is a pretty thing, honey.
BONNIE: We got any peaches? I sure could go for a peach right now.
CLYDE: ( he stops drumming his fingers, suddenly has an idea ) Whyn't we do it tomorrow?
BONNIE: Do what?
CLYDE: Tomorrow's Sunday, ain't it? We could drive all night and be on that golf course tomorrow morning!
BONNIE: You sure you feel up to it?
CLYDE: ( enthused ) Yeah, why not? ( now feeling anxious and excited, he is impatient to move ) Where is that boy? He's gone too ( humming to the radio ) He'll be here. ( holding the peach to him ) You take a bite, hon.
BONNIE: ( humming to the radio ) He'll be here. ( holding the peach to him ) You take a bite, hon.
CLYDE: ( getting worried ) No, it's takin' too long. What if something happened?
BONNIE: Nothin' happened.
CLYDE: ( more urgently ) Go take a look, see what's keepin'
BONNIE: He ain't there.
CLYDE: C'mon, let's go.
BONNIE: What's wrong?
CLYDE: I don't know.
HAMER: The OLD MAN dives under his truck to hide. The shooting We see the chicken truck. Two men in the front seat. They see ahead of them an incredible shooting match and, in terror, they jam on the brakes and leap out of the truck. They run as fast as they can into the meadow, away from the The gun fight takes just seconds during which law fires eight-seven shots at BONNIE and CLYDE, giving them absolutely no chance. The sound is rapid, deafening. At no point in the gun fight do we see BONNIE and CLYDE in motion. We see, instead, two still photographs cut into the sequence: one of Clyde, half out of the car, taking careful dead aim with his gun, just as he did in the teaching scene: one of BONNIE, in terror, a pack of cigarettes in her hand clutched tight, looking as fragile and beautiful as she can The noise stops at once. Utter silence. It has been a massacre. BONNIE and CLYDE never had a chance to return the gunfire. We see the car, a complete shambles. We never see BONNIE and CLYDE dead, though for a moment we discern their bodies slumped in the car. The camera pulls above the car until it is on a level with the opposite side of the road. Then, slowly, the six lawmen stand up in the trench. On the faces of the five deputies, horror and shock at what they have just done. HAMER, however, registers no emotion. His face is a blank. He lights a cigarette. Slowly, slowly, the five men begin to edge closer to the car to see the result. Music, the wild country breakdown music, begins on the sound track.
THE END: CUT TO BLACK.
