TROY DUFFY: Shooting Script: White August 28, 1997
DOWNTOWN BOSTON: As we open we see the inside of an enormous church. A young looking PRIEST in his mid-thirties is finishing the delivery of the Lord’s Prayer. In the back of the church, in the last pew, there are two who kneel on the cold, stone floor. They do not stand to sing, nor do they offer signs of peace when told, but they pray. They grip and rub their rosaries. They mutter their words in Latin. CONNOR and MURPHY MacMANUS ( mid-twenties ) are shrouded in thick waist length navy P-coats, worn leather boots and the hungry clothes of the poor. The boys heads are shaved and they have facial hair.
MONSIGNOR: ( dismissing young priest ) Thank you Father Macklepenny, for coming all the way across town to be our guest speaker today. I hope you found our little parish to your
MONSIGNOR: ( loud, authoritative ) .and I am reminded of this holy day of the sad story of Kitty Geneviese. This poor soul cried out time and time again for help but no person answered her calls. Though many saw, not one so much as called. Her assailant wiped the bloody knife off on her lifeless little body. They watched as he simply walked away. Nobody wanted to get involved. Nobody wanted to take a stand. We must fear evil men and deal with them accordingly but what we must truly guard against, what we must fear most ( beat ) Is the indifference of good men.
CONNOR: ( Irish accent ) I do believe the Monsignor finally got a point.
MURPHY: ( Irish accent )
CONNOR: Murphy slaps Connor square in the face with the bloody slab. Connor's face is caked with blood as he stands stunned. He then leaps on Murphy, sending him into a pile of nearby hamburger. He grabs a large cow tongue from a nearby heap and begins slapping Murphy in the face with it as they both laugh and the workers cheer. Their boss, McGERKIN approaches with a very large woman. Her head is clean-shaven. The two are still laughing, out of breath, they turn.
MCGERKIN: Boys this is Rose, Baum, Gurtle. Rozengurtle Baumgartner.
ROZ: Rozengurtle Baumgartner.
MCGERKIN: You'll be training her today, and do a good job.
BOTH BOYS: ( wipes hand and extends it ) Pleased ta meet ya Rozie. I prefer to be called Rozengurtle by ( taken aback ) Okay then. let's get ya started.
CONNOR: ( wipes hand and extends it ) Pleased ta meet ya Rozie. I prefer to be called Rozengurtle by ( taken aback ) Okay then. let's get ya started.
ROZ: I prefer to be called Rozengurtle by Okay then. let's get ya started.
CONNOR: ( taken aback ) Okay then. let's get ya started.
MURPHY: Christ, that's the largest woman I've ever seen.
MCGERKIN: It's self-imposed affirmative action. If we hire big, fat, angry lesbians, then the leftist groups representing big, fat angry lesbians, won't think we're violating their rights.
MURPHY: Well, how politically correct you are. That's good stuff.
MCGERKIN: Hey, those people can shut ya down. They'll sue you into the ground claiming they were put under mental duress, inner pain. and sufferin'.
MURPHY: Well, as long as we're hirin' fat lesbians, give your ma a call.
MCGERKIN: Fuck you Murphy.
CONNOR: Okay, just cut off as much fat as you can as it goes by and the rule of thumb here is.
ROZ: Rule of thumb?
CONNOR: ( questioningly ) Do you know where that term comes from? In the early 1900's it was legal for men to beat their wives as long as they used a stick no wider than their thumb.
ROZ: Do you know where that term comes from? In the early 1900's it was legal for men to beat their wives as long as they used a stick no wider than their thumb.
CONNOR: Can't do much damage with that. Perhaps, it shoulda been the rule of wrist. Ha! Rule of wrist.
CONNOR: Hey Murphy?
MURPHY: ( slight smirk ) How many feminists does it take to screw in a light bulb?
CONNOR: ( slight smirk ) How many feminists does it take to screw in a light bulb?
MURPHY: How many?
CONNOR: Two. One ta screw it in and one ta suck my cock.
ROZ: ( angry ) I knew you two pricks would give me problems. Give me shit cause I'm a woman. I'm not gonna take your male dominance bullshit!
CONNOR: ( trying to calm her, but still chuckling ) Oh, come on now Rozengurtle. I was just tryin' ta get a rise outta ya.
MURPHY: Yeah. Just tryin' ta break the ice is all.
ROZ: ( to Murphy ) Fuck you. ( to Connor ) .and fuck you!
MURPHY: Oh, come on its St. Patty's Day. It's all in good fun.
CONNOR: Now look Rozengurtle, we're sorry. Just relax.
CONNOR: Why don't you save all your aggression for protests and marches and what
ROZ: You fuckin' slaves. Kowtowing to the needs of men! Get up! Get the fuck up! Leave him there.
MURPHY: Guess you'll have ta change that tattoo now, won't ya Rozie!?
CONNOR: Fuck you.
CONNOR: MOM ( V.O. )
CONNOR: ( interested ) Mother, is that you?
CONNOR: Ma, what's wrong?
MURPHY: No fuckin' hot water man. That.
CONNOR: Shut it. It's Ma. It's all your fault. Both you little bastards. I was a fool to believe you would bring me any peace. The day your Da left us when you were almost too young to remember, he said the two of you would do me right and make me proud, but he was wrong and I got nothin' ta live for.
CONNOR: Mother, what are you sayin'? You're talkin' crazy here.
MURPHY: What's the matter with her?
MOM: I finally found your Da's army revolver, Connor.
CONNOR: What the hell are you doin' with Da's gun!?
MURPHY: ( widening eyes ) What the.?
CONNOR: What?! What are you doin'?
CONNOR: ( screaming ) Pull the trigger?! Have ya lost it woman?! Now just calm down here.
MURPHY: ( eyes widen ) Oh my god!
CONNOR: No ma! No!
YOU.!: Connor and Murphy are both screaming in panic.
CONNOR: ( grabs his balls, rolls over ) Aaaww, shit!. evil woman!
MURPHY: Lord have mercy. That was a good one Oh, Jesus! No ma! Christ ma! No!
MURPHY: ( to Connor ) Oh, she's quite proud of herself.
MOM: Okay, seriously, both you listen ta me now.
CONNOR: All right, we're both here.
MOM: ( finally ) It's only 11:00 here boys so I got lot's more drinkin' ta do with your worthless relatives down at the Anvil.
MURPHY: Just called ta torture us did ya?
CONNOR: How's Uncle Sibeal?
MOM: Well, you know how it is with him. Always complainin' he's never turnin' a profit on St. Patty's. Whole damn family goes down there with no money, cause we know he can't bear ta charge
MOM: But he's been havin' himself a nip or two as well. Been up the waitress' skirt all night, poor girl.
MURPHY: Well you tell him ta take it easy with that. He's gotta learn ta respect women the way Connor does.
CONNOR: Oh, Jesus.
MURPHY: I gave him his first lesson in sensitivity toward the fairer sex just today.
CONNOR: Don't even do it, ya bastard.
MURPHY: ( laughs ) He got beat up by a girl.
CONNOR: If that was a girl I want ta see some papers. She had ta be just preoperative for Christ sakes.
MOM: ( dogmatically ) Lord's name.
BOTH: ( genuflecting, impassionate ) Mother Mary, full of grace.
MOM: What did you do, Connor?
CONNOR: Well, we tried ta make friends and she gave me a shot ta the nuts.
MOM: ( aghast ) What. the dirty bitch! I hope ya trounced her a good one!
CONNOR: Well, I didn't but.
MURPHY: ( shaking his fist ) Don't worry, I respected the hell out of her for ya, Ma.
MOM: Well listen, I know how my boys take ta scrappin' when they take ta Yes mother.
BOTH: ( semi-condescending ) Yes mother.
MOM: ( light-hearted anger ) I mean it now. I carried the two of you little bastards around in my belly at the same time you ungrateful pissants. Ya ruined my girlish figure in one fell swoop, and then ya sucked me dry. ( grabbing her breast ) My tits are saggin' down ta my ankles. I trip over em for Christ sakes, now ya listen ta me, NO FIGHTEN!
MOM: Promise me boys.
MURPHY: We promise.
CONNOR: Yeah, we promise.
MOM: Well, there's my boys. Shit. I gotta go. Looks like I caused a ruckus with that shot. Half the damn neighborhood is comin'.
MURPHY: All right, love ya ma. Listen, before ya go just give us the goods, eh?
CONNOR: Yeah. It's been twenty-seven years.
MOM: Still bickerin' over that, huh?
CONNOR: Come on, ma. Out with it. Who came out first?
MOM: All right, I suppose you have the right ta know. Are ya ready?
MOM: Are ya ready?
BOTH: Slight pause as mom slams a shot of Hennessey.
MOM: ( yells ) The one with the biggest cock!
CONNOR: Crazy woman.
CONNOR: Don't start. I've had ice on mine.
GREENLY: ( thick Boston accent ) .so these guys are just kickin' the shit out of each other. This guy ( points to Vladdy ) Picks up an old kitchen sink that some one threw out and crushes this ( Checkov ) With it. All right, so it makes a big bang and alerts their friend, who's standin' look out around the corner. So he comes over and gets into it with this guy, ( Vladdy ) He's angry at him, right? They get into an altercation in which the look out guy crushes this guy by jumpin on him. And look at the damage ( Vladdy ) I mean this guy's fuckin' hamburger man. His spine is crushed. He's all twisted and shit. That guy had to be one big mother fucker. Huge, 3-400 pounds, fuckin huge.
GREELY: Or, okay. Check this out. Say these two don't even know the huge guy. They're just staggerin' home from a bar this morning, still all fucked up from St. Patty's last night. So they figure they'll take a short cut down the alley and this big mother fucker, he's just waitin'. And what could be more perfect for strong arm robbery? Two drunk guys all bandaged up. They're already injured for Christ sakes. He takes a blunt object and whacks the guy with the bandage on his head, right? Cause he's smart. He knows the guy with the bandage on his ass, he ain't going nowhere. Matter of fact, this guy's probably helping his friend with the rectal problem along. They're limping around like a couple of decrepit old broads. So once this guy's out of the picture this poor asshole, he tries to run. But look how far he gets fore the huge bastard catches up with him. Only a few yards. And what does he do? He gets creative. He picks up a sink and crushes the poor mother- fucker. Then, he ain't done yet. He comes over here, jumps on this guy's back and crushes him to death. He steals their shit and beats it! Thanks for comin' out! And look at this print.
GREENLY: That's one big fuckin' shoe!. and think about it. Of all the ways to kill a guy, crushin' him to death. That's very particular. You don't get many of those. I dunno. I feel something big here. I wouldn't be surprised if we see more of these turning up.
SMECKER: ( stepping into the open ) Brilliant. So now we got a Huge guy theory and Serial crusher theory. Top fucking notch. ( to Greenly ) What's your name?
GREENLY: Detective Greenly. Who the fuck are
SMECKER: That's who the fuck I am.
CHIEF: Listen, I gotta go by the numbers on this one. I.D. just came back on these guys. They've got connections to the Russian mob. That makes it a federal matter and Agent Smecker, here, is heading up the investigation with our full cooperation.
SMECKER: ( transfixed on Greely ) Why don't you get me a cup of coffee.
GREENY: What the fuck?
SMECKER: Café latte.
GREENLY: Who the.
SMECKER: Twist of lemon!
GREENLY: ( to Chief ) Chief, what the fuck is this?
SMECKER: Greenly looks helplessly to the Chief, who simply nods. He storms off the scene, upset. Smecker turns his back on everyone and puts earphones in. He reaches down and hits play. The choir song "Agnus dei" overtakes. He begins to investigate. He kneels at the bodies for a moment then stares at the opposite brick wall. He picks up a piece of porcelain and scrapes it with his thumb. He quickly cocks his head toward the sky and begins to chuckle as he says Jesus Christ, under his breath. He brushes some paraffin on each of the dead men's hands. Duffy and Dolly watch defiantly. They start to smile at one another as they collectively realize his homosexuality. He is slightly effeminate buy not overly fey.
SMECKER: ( loudly ) Mitchell, Langley!
MITCHELL: Yes sir.
SMECKER: Find the manager of this building. See if he has had any complaints of water coming down in any apartments, starting just this morning. If he's not there, knock on every door starting from the third floor up. Langley, you take this building, same thing.
SMECKER: Chaffey, Newman.
CHAFFEY: Yes sir.
SMECKER: ( to Chaffey ) Look in the trash around their hands. See if you can find me two bullet casings. 45's, if my eye serves me right. Don't disturb them. Mark them as they lay. Newman, root through this shit. ( points to the mountain of garbage ) If this was a sink find me some metal parts. Gimme a faucet or a drain cover or something.
CHAFFEY: Got it. It's a 45.
SMECKER: Chief, could you get ballistics down here and tell them they have to dig a 45 slug out of a brick wall.
SMECKER: .and locate another that's been fired through a dumpster.
CHIEF: I got the best ballistics guy in the world. He's mobile. Got all his stuff right in the van. Can have him down here in 10 minutes.
DOLLY: How did you know that?
SMECKER: Paraffin came up positive. And bullet holes are usually a big clue.
CHAFFEY: I can't find the second one, sir.
SMECKER: Look under the body.
CHAFFEY: ( obeys ) Got it.
SMECKER: You guy's ready for this?
SMECKER: This was no gangland assassination. Though creative, it was way too sloppy. Something went wrong here. This has personal written all over it. Now, these men were crushed and the first natural reaction the body has to such trauma is to tense up. So now the two shots fired here were reflex rounds. These guys weren't shooting at anything, but they were just about to.
MITCHELL: Agent Smecker, This is all illegal loft housing so there's no manager on the premises but I found a lady on the fourth floor said she's had water dripping down on her whole place. Started just this morning.
SMECKER: Fourth floor huh? Then we're heading to the fifth. Let's go up and see just how right I am.
DUFFY: So what are you thinkin' here?
SMECKER: Really want to know?
GREENLY: No way. You know how big a guy's gotta be to do that? Fuckin' huge.
SMECKER: ( beat ) Oooo. I might be wanting a bagel with my coffee.
GREENLY: ( to Dolly ) I ain't getting him no fuckin' bagel.
MORNING: Smecker appears first, glancing in momentarily. The detectives pile in behind him. They survey the situation in total awe.
SMECKER: ( to Greenly ) We'll start the ass kissing with
MITCHELL: ( approaches Smecker ) Agent Smecker. I know this neighborhood pretty good. There's a bar called McGinty's down the block. It's a good bet they were there last ( turns to detectives ) Good work, Mitchell. I'll check that out myself.
SMECKER: ( turns to detectives ) Good work, Mitchell. I'll check that out myself.
REPORTER: Hey, Duffy. What the fuck happened here? You owe me. This is the one I Let's go get a cup of coffee. You ain't gonna fuckin' believe this
DUFFY: Let's go get a cup of coffee. You ain't gonna fuckin' believe this
SMECKER: I want A.P.B.'s put out. I want more uniforms on the streets. One thing's for sure, wherever these guys are they're hurting.
MURPHY: Okay. Just calm down. Take it easy. He'll have his day. He'll have his
FUCKIN' DAY!: Music fades.
MURPHY: Thanks for comin', Doc.
DOC: ( Irish accent, squeaky voice ) J-Jesus. What the fuck happened? Are ya b-boys all right?
CONNOR: We're alive.
DOC: An F.B.I. agent came by the bar. He left me his c-c, he left me his c-c, he left me this.
DOC: ( extremely loud )
DOC: What are you going to do?
CONNOR: We're going to turn ourselves in. It was self defense.
DOC: y-y-yeah that's what he said.
MURPHY: How the fuck's he know that? We haven't spoken to anyone yet.
DOC: Don't know. He didn't say.
MURPHY: Listen Doc, we need a favor.
DOC: Murphy hands Doc a partially filled garbage bag.
CONNOR: Hold this shit for us, Doc. We'll be comin back for it when we get out.
DOC: Doc exits, say one more "Fuck,.Ass", on the way out.
SMECKER: First of all, I'd like to thank whichever one of you donut munching, barrel-assed dip-shits leaked this to the press. That's just what we need now, some sensational story in the papers making these guys out to be super heroes, triumphing over evil. And let me squash the rumors now. These two aren't heroes. They are two ordinary men who were put in an extraordinary situation and they just happened to come out on top. Yes, nothing from our far reaching computer system has turned up jack shit on these two. All we know is what we found out from their neighbors. And the general consensus is that they're. angels. But angels don't kill and we got two bodies in the morgue that look like they've been.
SMECKER: .serial crushed by a huge fuckin' Are these me considered armed and Well, not armed. If they had guns, they'd have used them. But dangerous? Oh yeah.
CHAFFEY: Are these me considered armed and Well, not armed. If they had guns, they'd have used them. But dangerous? Oh yeah.
SMECKER: Well, not armed. If they had guns, they'd have used them. But dangerous? Oh yeah.
MITCHELL: What makes you think they're dangerous? They were just protecting each other.
SMECKER: Look, look! I'm not saying one way or the other. Just be careful and go by the protocol on this one.
CHAFFEY: Any tips on where these guys may be?
SMECKER: ( to Officer Mitchell ) Any word back from the E.R.s?
MITCHELL: No help at all. Swamped from St. Patty's. Packed with drunk, bloody Just hit the bricks nice and hard.
SMECKER: Just hit the bricks nice and hard.
GREENLY: ( talking loudly ) These guys are miles away by now.
GREENLY: But if you want to beat your head against a wall, then here's what you look for. These guys are scared like two little bunny rabbits. Anything in a uniform or flashing blue lights will spook them. So the only thing we can do is put a potato on a string and drag it through South Boston.
MURPHY: ( loud ) You'd probably have better luck with a beer.
SMECKER: What the fuck is this!? This isn't a fuckin' tea party. Get out! Only thing I want in here is them.
SMECKER: This conversation is going to be recorded. Just answer to the best of your knowledge.
MURPHY: ( politely ) Excuse me, sir.
MURPHY: "What do we tell him about the guns and money?"
CONNOR: "We just got up and left. Bum musta rolled them before the police got Okay. We're ready.
MURPHY: ( to Smecker ) Okay. We're ready.
SMECKER: You guys are not under oath, here. I am assuming you knew these two guys from before, huh?
CONNOR: We. met them last night.
SMECKER: They had some pretty interesting bandages. Know anything about that?
CONNOR: ( presently, imitating Doc's voice ) Would someone please come over here me up the.
DOC: me up the.
CONNOR: me up the.
DOC: Everyone falls down laughing. Doc is angry and starts throwing ice at them. DAVID DELLA ROCCO makes his way through the crowd. Rocco is thirty-two years old. He has shoulder-length, dark hair and a full beard and mustache that wrap around his big smile. He charges up to the bar and yells to Doc.
ROCCO: Hey! Fuck! Ass! Get me a beer!
ROCCO: ( trying to connect with Connor ) .It's not that I'm homophobic. I'm just afraid of faggots.
DOC: I got some bad news. Looks like I'm gonna have ta close d-down the bar. The Russians have been buying up buildings all over town, including this one. Fuck!. Ass! And they're not letting me renew my lease. I got 'til the end of the week to come up with 26,000 dollars, or they take the place. I left them a note telling them not to show their faces t- tonight. They been pressuring me ta close and take the last few days ta get all my shit outta here but it's my right to stay open ta the last.
ROCCO: Let me talk to my boss, may I can. L-l-listen I don't want anyone ta know until the last possible moment. So you guys keep your traps shut. ya know what they say; People in glass houses sink ships.
DOC: L-l-listen I don't want anyone ta know until the last possible moment. So you guys keep your traps shut. ya know what they say; People in glass houses sink ships.
ROCCO: Y'know Doc, I gotta get you a, a, like a proverb book or something. This mix and match shit's gotta go.
DOC: Everyone chuckles.
CONNOR: ( imitating Doc ) A p-penny saved is worth two in the ( imitating Doc ) Don't c-cross the road if ya can't get out of the kitchen.
MURPHY: ( imitating Doc ) Don't c-cross the road if ya can't get out of the kitchen.
CHECKOV: ( thick Russian accent ) I am Ivan Checkov. You will be closing ( after a long pause ) This is McCoy. we find Spock and we got enough for an away team.
MURPHY: ( after a long pause ) This is McCoy. we find Spock and we got enough for an away team.
CHECKOV: Oh, how extraordinary. A bunch of Irishmen. and they are being drunken idiots. You are killing the stereotype. I'm in no mood for You! You stay. The rest of you go Why don't you make like a tree and get the fuck outta here!
DOC: Why don't you make like a tree and get the fuck outta here!
CONNOR: Calm down, Doc. I'm sure they're reasonable fellows.
CONNOR: Listen fellas, Y'know he's got 'til this week's end. Ya don't have ta be hard asses, do ya?
MURPHY: Yeah, it's St. Patty's day. Everyone's Irish tonight. Now, why don't ya pull up a stool and have a drink with us?
CHECKOV: You insult me. I would never drink that sewage. Especially with you people. You are fools.
CHECKOV: This is no game! If you won't go, we will make you go!
CONNOR: If ya want a fight, you can see you're outnumbered. We're trying ta be civil here, so I suggest you take our offer.
CHECKOV: I make the offers, ass-hole.
ROCCO: ( standing between the two brothers ) Hey, there Boris. What would you say if I told you that your pinko, commie mother sucked so much dick. "Now, that wasn't too polite, was "I'm afraid we can't let that one go, Ivan."
CONNOR: "Now, that wasn't too polite, was "I'm afraid we can't let that one go, Ivan."
MURPHY: "I'm afraid we can't let that one go, Ivan."
CONNOR: I don't think Ma would mind.
CONNOR: Let the boy go. He knows what the fuck he's doing!
CONNOR: Nicely done, boy!
CONNOR: Now, like my fine brother says, on St. Patty's everyone's Irish. And this piece of shit is about to be
FRIEND #1: Are ya tryin' ta kill him, ya fuck?
CHECKOV: ( almost whispering ) I was going to kill you. But I'm not. I'm going to kill your brother. I'm going to take him down to the dumpster and I'm going to shoot him in the head. Then I'm going to throw his dead body in the garbage. ( looks at this watch ) Trash guys are coming in 10 minutes, gotta go.
MURPHY: It was just a bar fight. You guys are fuckin' pussies!
CHECKOV: I hope your conscience is clear,
SMECKER: ( gathering himself ) So, how is it that you guys are fluent in Russian?
CONNOR: We paid attention in school.
SMECKER: Know any other languages?
MURPHY: Aye. Our mother insisted on it.
MURPHY: ( subtitled ) How do you think he figured all this out without talking to us?
CONNOR: Connor speaks flawless Italian with subtitles.
CONNOR: ( subtitled ) I have no idea. Maybe someone saw and talked.
MURPHY: ( subtitled ) Not in our neighborhood, man. A hundred percent Irish. No one talks to cops. Period.
CONNOR: ( subtitled ) Then I guess he's just real. real What are you guys doing working at a fucking meat packing plant?
SMECKER: What are you guys doing working at a fucking meat packing plant?
CHAFFEY: Ah, Agent Smecker, we have a problem.
SMECKER: The press is everywhere outside. They're going nuts for these guys. What do you want to do?
CHAFFEY: The press is everywhere outside. They're going nuts for these guys. What do you want to do?
SMECKER: You're not being charged. It's up to you. Do you want to talk to them?
CONNOR: Absolutely not.
MURPHY: No pictures, either.
SMECKER: Well, we could try the bag over the head thing. Walk you right out the Our mother can see through bags.
CONNOR: Our mother can see through bags.
MURPHY: Aye, she can. Any way we can stay here?
CHAFFEY: Sure, we have an empty holding cell, They can. can they stay?
SMECKER: Well, we'll have to check with your mother, but it's ok with me if your friends sleep over.
SMECKER: Time to feed the dogs.
CONNOR: He's a nice guy.
MURPHY: Yes. he is.
CHIEF: This is our official statement. The MacManus brothers are not being charged with a crime. It was a clean- cut case of self defense. We have thanked them for their cooperation and we thank you, the media, for your tireless pursuit of the truth.
CONNOR: Destroy all that which is evil.
MURPHY: .so that which is good may flourish
CONNOR: Be right back.
DUFFY: We would be honored, sir, if you would join us peasants, in a donut.
MURPHY: ( beat ) I will not accept this pizzle until my feet have been properly anointed.
VINCENZO: ( hushed ) Well, it's the funny man. Give it here, package boy.
ROCCO: ( a bit defiant ) Joey Bevo said it was important. Said I had to give it to him myself.
VINCENZO: ( snatching the package ) Gimme the fuckin' thing. Now sit the fuck down!
VINCENZO: ( hushed ) I'm Rocco. I'm the funny man. Heee Hee. I'm so fuckin' funny. Hee Hee.
ROCCO: Fuck you Vincenzo.
VINCENZO: ( hushed ) Tell me a joke funny man. Hee Hee.
ROCCO: I caught your show down at the velvet room at the Holiday Inn, loved it when you busted into Viva Las Vegas.
ROCCO: Hey, hey, hey.
YAKAVETTA: Fuck you! I could snap my fingers and have you dead in four hours, rotting in a truck off of Boyleston! You insignificant little fuck! I always get my fuckin' money!
YAKAVETTA: Fuckin' 90's are killin' me. I shouldn't a done that. You're not supposed to tell a guy you're gonna kill him anymore. I gotta tip-toe through the tulips with these assholes. I prance. I'm a prancer. It's what I do. sucked all the fun right out of this job.
ROCCO: Poppa Joe, you want me to go now?
YAKAVETTA: Yeah. Thanks, Rocco. See ya.
YAKAVETTA: Hey, Rocco, wait. Come back here.
ROCCO: Yeah boss? I always see you talking to the boys and making them laugh. They always come around telling me what a crack up you are. What is it they call The. The funny man.
YAKAVETTA: I always see you talking to the boys and making them laugh. They always come around telling me what a crack up you are. What is it they call The. The funny man.
ROCCO: ( totally intimidated ) The. The funny man.
YAKAVETTA: The funny man. Well, I got a new job for you, just for now. Roc, I'm having a real shitty day. I'm depressed. Tell me a funny story or a joke.
ROCCO: ( terrified ) Uh. Okay. um. you hear the one about the, no fuck that one. uh. oh! oh! Well. shit. Okay, there's a white guy. He's walkin' along the beach and he finds a, a pot, y'know and ah, he rubs it and this genie pops out. But this genie, he's a ni. he's a black guy.
YAKAVETTA: He's a nigger.
ROCCO: Yeah. And uh, he's pissed off. He says, "Why you crackers always gotta find my mother fuckin' pot? And he tells him he's gonna grant all his three wishes but he's gonna give all the black guys.
ROCCO: Sorry! Sorry! All the niggers on the planet get double what he wishes for. "I'll take a million dollars," he says. Genie give it to him and says every nigger on earth just got two million. "I don't care gimme a yacht." Poof there it is. E-every bl. every nigger just got two yachts. Genie goes. I'm sorry Poppa Joe. I can't. This joke sucks.
YAKAVETTA: Continue the joke.
ROCCO: ( deflated ) He says, "What's your third wish?" And the guys says, "I-I want you to beat me half to death."
YAKAVETTA: ( still in guffaw ) Very good stuff, Rocco. Very good stuff. Tell me another one. Know what we need, man?. some rope.
CONNOR: Know what we need, man?. some rope.
MURPHY: For what?
CONNOR: Charlie Bronson's always got rope.
MURPHY: Yeah, these guys always got a lot of rope strapped around em in the movies and they always end up using it.
CONNOR: Yeah, these guys always got a lot of rope strapped around em in the movies and they always end up using it.
MURPHY: Oh, you've lost it, haven't ya?
CONNOR: I'm serious.
MURPHY: Me too. That's stupid. Name one thing we're gonna need it for.
CONNOR: I don't know they just always need What is all this "they" shit? This ain't a movie.
MURPHY: What is all this "they" shit? This ain't a movie.
CONNOR: Is that right, Rambo?
MURPHY: All right, get the stupid fuckin'
SMECKER: ( pause ) Room number.
SMECKER: We got a time of death?
SMECKER: ( sighs ) What's the body count?
SMECKER: Uh, huh.
SMECKER: I'll be down there in a bit. Keep the press out.
SMECKER: What are you doing?
REUBEN: ( beat ) I was just trying to cuddle.
SMECKER: ( yelling ) What a fag!
SMECKER: ( intrigued ) He's struck again, hasn't he, Greenly?
GREENLY: Why do you always disrespect me like Respect is earned, Greenly, never given. Guys like you should have to follow me around squabbling for the scraps from my table.
SMECKER: Respect is earned, Greenly, never given. Guys like you should have to follow me around squabbling for the scraps from my table.
SMECKER: How many bodies, Greenly?
GREENLY: ( still Dejected )
GREENLY: ( catching himself ) No! Shit! I didn't see that one. Nine! Nine!
SMECKER: While Greenly's getting coffee, anybody else want anything?
GREENLY: ( as he walks to the door ) Shit! Shit!
SMECKER: So Duffy, got any theories to go with that. tie.
DUFFY: ( looks down ) These guys were pros. I think they were coming for one target, the fag man, he was the.
SMECKER: The what man?
DUFFY: ( surprised ) The fat man.
SMECKER: Well, Freud was right. So you think they came for the fag man, huh? And what do you base this upon?
DUFFY: He was the only one done right. Two in the back of the head.
SMECKER: And the pennies?
DUFFY: New hitman wants to leave his mark
SMECKER: That's a possibility. Y'know you Boston cops are perking up. That's two sound theories in one day, neither of which deal with abnormally sized Another possibility is that they were placed there with religious Yeah. Some cultures still put pennies in the eyes of the dead, or silver.
DUFFY: Yeah. Some cultures still put pennies in the eyes of the dead, or silver.
SMECKER: The Greeks. The Italians.
DUFFY: The Sicilians.
DOLLY: What's the symbology there?
SMECKER: Symbology? Well, now that Duffy has relinquished his King Bone Head crown I see we have an heir to the throne. I'm sure the word you were looking for was symbolism. What's the symbolism there? Let me explain it to you. In Greek and Roman mythology when you died you would have to pay the toll to Charon, the boatman who ferried you across to the gates of judgment. This made sure the dead came to atone for what they did during their lives, Detective.
SMECKER: The detectives are impressed.
SMECKER: ( aside ) Yeah, well. I'm an expert in name-
SMECKER: I've seen burns like these before. They used silencers. Look at these entry and exit wounds. They're
SMECKER: The two bullets went in here, through the top of the skull, criss-crossed and exited through the eyeballs. This one clue tells us three distinct facts. Number one. Duffy.
DUFFY: They shot him at a downward angle. They put him on his knees.
SMECKER: Excellent! Number two. Greenly.
GREENLY: ( thinking hard ) Shit, I, uh.
SMECKER: It tells us that he was the last to die. All these men Were carrying. They came in, dropped all in seconds and then took their time with fag man. Didn't they, They sure as fuck did!
SMECKER: And number three, Dolly.
DOLLY: Uh. two shooters!
SMECKER: Greenly and Duffy want to know how.
SMECKER: Now stay with me, boys. What did they do to make two such identical wounds? Did one guy put him on his knees, pop a cap in, sit him back up and shoot him again the same way? No. Two men of similar height dropped this guy down, each put some iron to his head and boom! That's all she fuckin' wrote!
DUFFY: What about one guy with two guns?
SMECKER: Possible, but unlikely. The angles are too extreme. A guy holding two guns to the back of your head is gonna shoot straight ahead. He wouldn't cock out his elbows, makes no sense. Besides, you telling me one guy came in here and killed eight men with eight extremely well aimed shots in just a few seconds? No way. Had to be at least two.
SMECKER: Television,. television is the explanation for this.
SMECKER: You see this is bad television. The little assault guys creeping in through the vents and coming in through the ceilings. That James Bond shit never happens in real life. Professionals don't do that. So we've got this up here, which has novice written all over it. And all this down here that's simply a perfect textbook assassination. So here's our two possibilities. We either have rank amateurs that got lucky or consummate professionals that fucked
SMECKER: Join me in a drink, gentlemen.
SMECKER: With the exception of my coffee boy, you Boston detectives are starting to show signs of intelligence. So, I am going to make you privy to some information that you would not normally be. These men are all Russian mob. Not like those two peons in the alley the other day. These guys are all syndicate bosses and underbosses. I have a dossier on every man in this room. Since the Iron Curtain has gone down, the Russian syndicates have started to come here. And in the spirit of Glasnost the Soviets have opened their borders to the mafia. But the Italians, they're not convinced that the grounds in mother Russia are fertile enough for organized crime yet. So they ain't ready to commit. The Russians are coming here anyway. They are unwelcome. What we have here, gentlemen, is possibly the beginning of the first international mob war. unless I've totally missed something.
SMECKER: Now, what is this going to look like to those who do not know what I just told you?
DUFFY: It's gonna look like the bad guys are killing each other.
SMECKER: And is there an American, shit is there a man seated among us that hasn't thought about it many times, let's just put them all on an island, give them guns and let them kill each other. This is our wet dream come true. You can expect federal and local law enforcement to go only deep enough to satisfy the law, then bury it from here on out.
DOLLY: So, what do we do now?
SMECKER: That depends. You either do your job or get ethical.
ROCCO: This better be good.
MURPHY: A bit.
CONNOR: A bit.
MURPHY: Me, too.
MURPHY: You and your fucking rope.
CONNOR: ( smiling ) See. I told you there'd be a shaft.
MURPHY: ( smiling ) Just like on TV.
MURPHY: Where the fuck are you going?
CONNOR: We'll find it. Just calm down.
MURPHY: No, fuck you. This rope is bullshit. I'm sweatin' my ass off draggin' this stupid thing around. Must weigh 30 pounds.
CONNOR: We're doing some serious shit here. Now, get a hold of yourself, asshole.
MURPHY: Asshole!? I'm not the rope-totin' Charlie Bronson wanna-be that's getting' us lost!
CONNOR: Sh, sh! Fuck you!
MURPHY: No, fuck you!
BOTH: And shepherds we shall be. For thee, my Lord, for thee. Power hath descended forth from thy hand that our feet may swiftly carry out thy command. So we shall flow a river forth to thee and teeming with souls shall it ever be. E nomini patri, et Fili e spiritu sancti.
CONNOR: ( looks up ) That was some good fuckin' rope.
MURPHY: That was way easier than I thought.
CONNOR: On TV ya always get that asshole that jumps behind the couch.
MURPHY: On TV ya always get that asshole that jumps behind the couch.
CONNOR: Yeah, and ya gotta shoot at him for ten minutes.
MURPHY: Oh, we're good man.
CONNOR: Yes, we are.
MURPHY: I love our new job.
ROCCO: Oh, God! Don't kill me! We're on the same side! The boss musta sent you in as back up, huh? Oh, shit, please! I'm Rocco. I'm the funny man. They call me the funny fuckin' man!
CONNOR: ( attempting to hide accent ) Where's your gun?
ROCCO: Chest pocket. This is a six-shooter.
CONNOR: This is a six-shooter.
MURPHY: ( hiding accent ) Nine bodies.
CONNOR: Oh, you're good. What were you gonna do? Laugh the last three to death, funny man?
ROCCO: Poppa Joe said there was only two. In and out. Boy, you guys sure did a good job. You're good, huh? Cool masks. Where'd you get them?
CONNOR: Let's do him right here.
MURPHY: Right now.
ROCCO: ( screaming like a baby ) Don't kill me. Oh shit, please no. I'm Rocco. I'm the funny man!. the funny man. the funny.
ROCCO: What did you do?! Fuckin'. what the fuckin' fuck! Who the fuck, fucked this fuckin'? fuck. How did you two fuckin', fucks?... FUCK!!!
CONNOR: Certainly illustrates the diversity of the word.
ROCCO: What the fuck are you doing here? What, huh!? WHAT? WHAT? WHAT? ANSWERS!
CONNOR: ( slaps his face ) Get a hold of yourself, man.
MURPHY: Yeah, get a hold of yourself.
CONNOR: Listen, we gotta get outta here now. We'll take separate exits and meet at Rocco's.
ROCCO: BACK TO PRESENT INT. ROCCO'S APARTMENT NIGHT Rocco has removed his hotel jacket.
ROCCO: Anybody you think is evil?
CONNOR: Don't you think that's a little psycho? A little weird?
ROCCO: Don't you think that's a little psycho? A little weird?
CONNOR: Weird, huh?. Know what I think is weird? Decent men with loving families go home every day after work. They turn on the news and see rapists, murderers, and child molesters all getting out of prison.
MURPHY: Mafiosos getting caught with 20 kilos and walkin' on bail the same day.
CONNOR: Little girls catchin' stray bullets in their heads, playin' hopscotch in their front yards. And everyone thinks the same thing. Someone should just go kill those motherfuckers.
MURPHY: Kill em all. Admit it, even you've thought about it. You guys should be in every major This is some heavy shit. This is like Lone Ranger-heavy man. Fuck it! There's so much shit that pisses me off. You guys should recruit 'cause I am sick and fuckin' tired of walkin' down the street waitin' for one of these assholes to get me, y'know?
ROCCO: You guys should be in every major This is some heavy shit. This is like Lone Ranger-heavy man. Fuck it! There's so much shit that pisses me off. You guys should recruit 'cause I am sick and fuckin' tired of walkin' down the street waitin' for one of these assholes to get me, y'know?
ROCCO: This is some heavy shit. This is like Lone Ranger-heavy man. Fuck it! There's so much shit that pisses me off. You guys should recruit 'cause I am sick and fuckin' tired of walkin' down the street waitin' for one of these assholes to get me, y'know?
MURPHY: ( chuckling ) Hallelujah, Jaffar.
ROCCO: So you're not just talkin' mob guys. You're talkin' anyone, right? Even like pimps and drug dealers and all that shit?
ROCCO: Well fuck, you guys could do this every day.
MURPHY: We're like 7-Eleven. We ain't always doing business, but we're always Nicely put.
CONNOR: Nicely put.
ROCCO: You fuckin' guys. You ruined me. I'm fuckin' done. Permanent package boy.
MURPHY: Who says that? You could take credit on it.
ROCCO: What are you serious?
MURPHY: Yeah, fuck it. If you think about it, it's all you can do really. You can't tell him it was us. Go in braggin' and shit.
CONNOR: Climb the corporate ladder, boy. Don Fuck it! I'm doing it. I deserve it. I've been working for those fat bastards since I was in high school and look at this place.
ROCCO: Fuck it! I'm doing it. I deserve it. I've been working for those fat bastards since I was in high school and look at this place.
ROCCO: ( working into a frenzy ) They're fuckin' me man! Hey, they can suck my pathetic little dick. And I'll dip my nuts in marinara just so the fat fucks can get a taste of home while they're at it. That's it, it's done, I'm doing it.
MURPHY: I can't fuckin' believe that just
CONNOR: ( hung over ) Donna's gonna be angry about her Shit. She's on every drug know to man. She'd have sold that thing for a dime bag. Screw her. ( beat ) But I do kinda feel like an ass-hole.
ROCCO: Shit. She's on every drug know to man. She'd have sold that thing for a dime bag. Screw her. But I do kinda feel like an ass-hole.
CONNOR: ( chuckles ) You sound real remorseful.
ROCCO: She ain't been around in weeks anyhow.
CONNOR: ( beat ) Listen. Something's been bothering me about last night.
ROCCO: Well. what if your boss knew how many guys were supposed to be there. in that room?
CONNOR: Well. what if your boss knew how many guys were supposed to be there. in that room?
ROCCO: What are you saying?
CONNOR: Think about it man. Nine men, six You think they sold me out? No way.
ROCCO: You think they sold me out? No way.
CONNOR: He probably knew you'd end up nailing the fat guy, maybe one or two more, but he had to know you weren't walking out of there. Figure it out. Shooter's dead on the scene. No in-depth investigation. It'd slide right off his back. 'Cause as much as I love ya, you're not exactly Don Corleone. What would he be losing? A thirty- five year old delivery boy?
ROCCO: No, no. That's just not the way things are done. Besides, how's he know I don't just get in there see there's too many and just serve em their fuckin' food and beat it?
CONNOR: He knows you, man. He knows all you want is to move up. That's all. A smooth hitter woulda gone in there, seen it was a wash and slipped out. But a guy like you? Knowin' this is your only chance? Waitin' eighteen No. No man. That's. that's. you don't know what you're talking about. That's bullshit. I know these guys. I mean, thanks for your concern, but that just ain't the thing of it.
ROCCO: No. No man. That's. that's. you don't know what you're talking about. That's bullshit. I know these guys. I mean, thanks for your concern, but that just ain't the thing of it.
CONNOR: Do me a favor and roll it around for a bit on your way in.
ROCCO: No, look. No rolling. Nothing needs to be rolled.
MURPHY: ( to Rocco ) Where are you goin'? ( to Connor ) Did you tell him?
CONNOR: ( to Rocco ) Then what the fuck?
MURPHY: ( to Rocco ) Then what the fuck?
ROCCO: Hey. You don't know that shit for Oh, Jesus. You're such a fuckin' Fuck you!
MURPHY: Oh, Jesus. You're such a fuckin' Fuck you!
ROCCO: Fuck you!
MURPHY: Use your brain for once. Is it so unbelievable they don't care about you? You are fuckin' dead, you go in there today. Dead!
ROCCO: Oh yeah. You two fuckin' Micks know what's going on, huh? Fuck you!
CONNOR: ( trying to calm him ) Hey, this ain't a thing you should gamble on, Roc. Fuck it! What kind of flowers ya want at your funeral? Ya dumb Wop. This is the last time I'll see you. Bye-bye ya stupid son of a bitch.
MURPHY: Fuck it! What kind of flowers ya want at your funeral? Ya dumb Wop. This is the last time I'll see you. Bye-bye ya stupid son of a bitch.
ROCCO: ( walking away ) I'll be back at 9:00.
CONNOR: Hey. You get in there and start getting a bad vibe, get the fuck out Hey Murph.
MURPHY: ROCCO ( V.O. )
MURPHY: Roc. You okay?
MURPHY: No. You sure you're okay?
DONNA: ( trying hard ) Here kitty, kitty.. kitty.
DOLLY: ( approaches Smecker ) She was in here when it went down.
SMECKER: Can she I.D. them?
DOLLY: They were wearing masks.
SMECKER: Of course they were. How many?
DOLLY: Smecker looks at Dolly surprised.
DOLLY: Only two did the shooting. So what are you thinking, Russian Nah, too quick half their infrastructure got taken out at the Copley plaza. Besides, if you're a hitter, you're either working for the Russians or the Italians. There's no riding the fence. Our little theory from last night just got blown to shit. Something. new is going on
SMECKER: Nah, too quick half their infrastructure got taken out at the Copley plaza. Besides, if you're a hitter, you're either working for the Russians or the Italians. There's no riding the fence. Our little theory from last night just got blown to shit. Something. new is going on
SMECKER: Probably shouldn't work another shift for awhile.
DANCER: Fuck this job. I'm getting out of the porno business and I don't care who I gotta blow to do it.
SMECKER: After talking to the dancer we know that their mark was the guy in the middle booth. After she watches them whack him, she passes out. Why the two extra victims?
GREENLY: No way they could have seen it.
SMECKER: No way they could have seen it.
SMECKER: ( sarcastic ) Allow me to enlighten you gentlemen to the protocol of the porno industry, as I'm sure you've never been in one of these places before. A man goes into the booth, puts the money in the slot. The dancer gets it on the other side. She hits the button, door goes up, now there is only glass between you and it's ( makes a masturbatory gesture with hand ) little fireman time.
DUFFY: No way they could have seen it?
SMECKER: Those doors were down. which means this. They looked down in through the peep hole, saw these guys and opened the doors from the inside. Pop, pop, pop, right through the glass. Why?
DOLLY: Maybe the three of them had something in common.
SMECKER: No. This guy is big time. These two are street-walking scum.
GREENLY: ( kidding ) Then that's what they had in common. They were all bad guys. now they're all dead bad guys.
SMECKER: We got another thing to think about here. We got us a genuine Kennedy assassination style bullet theory. Two guns were used here, guns A and B. The guy in the middle was done with both. But this guy. .he was killed with bullets from gun A only. And this guy. .gun B only. But ballistics dug two slugs out of the wall from over here where the victim was done with
SMECKER: And it's the same story over here. Why the crossover? That's just fucking weird. I have no Jesus. I just can't think anymore. That scene over at the coffee shop today tapped me out.
DOLLY: That's just fucking weird. I have no Jesus. I just can't think anymore. That scene over at the coffee shop today tapped me out.
DUFFY: Jesus. I just can't think anymore. That scene over at the coffee shop today tapped me out.
SMECKER: A guy went nuts over off of Commonwealth today. Shot three guys to death in a coffee shop in broad daylight. Fled the scene. Don't have much on him.
DUFFY: A guy went nuts over off of Commonwealth today. Shot three guys to death in a coffee shop in broad daylight. Fled the scene. Don't have much on him.
SMECKER: ( angry ) Why was I not informed of this?
GREENLY: They weren't related. The guy used a 38. No pennies. Totally amateur.
SMECKER: Who were the victims?
GREENLY: A couple of peons for the mob and.
SMECKER: ( livid ) Oh that's just BEAUTIFUL! All the scumbags in the quiet city of Boston start dropping dead and you think it's unrelated?! Greenly, the day I want the Boston Police doing my thinking for me, I will have a fucking tag on my toe! Now, get me a squad car and get me over there. I want the crime scene photos and any witness statements. NOW!
SMECKER: ( wide-eyed ) Oh. it looks like we got us a
SMECKER: The shooter knew these guys, huh?
DOLLY: How do you figure?
SMECKER: Friends, Gentlemen. They were friends.
SMECKER: These guys were packing. Not one hand near a gun. It's simple human behavior. Someone you don't know approaches you, you put your hand on it. This guy's got his hands on the table. He's eating his food, for Christ sakes. They were friends.
SMECKER: These two fucking scenes are related. Too many coincidences. Same day? Five hours apart? Dead mobsters on both scenes. Now, why did he kill the bartender?
DUFFY: Crime of passion. He just went nuts. He would have shot everyone in here. He just ran out of bullets.
SMECKER: Duffy. This look like a fucking post office to you? This guy came in here with intent. Maybe he didn't know exactly what he was gonna do but he had a pretty good idea. The bartender wasn't a fucking accident.
DUFFY: Well, we didn't get any help on that. A lot of people saw it. Nobody's Fucking figures. Look, are you guys seeing the pattern here? We got big questions at both of these crime scenes, with no answers. WHY did they kill the guys in the other two booths? WHY did he do the bartender? It would seem unnecessary, even God, I hate cold crime scenes! I'm fucking leaving now. And do me a favor, tell me when the next guy dies, cause these guys are not done
SMECKER: Fucking figures. Look, are you guys seeing the pattern here? We got big questions at both of these crime scenes, with no answers. WHY did they kill the guys in the other two booths? WHY did he do the bartender? It would seem unnecessary, even God, I hate cold crime scenes! I'm fucking leaving now. And do me a favor, tell me when the next guy dies, cause these guys are not done
ROCCO: Hey, Murph.
ROCCO: Yeah. Anybody call for me?
ROCCO: I'm fuckin' fine. Catch you on the flip side.
ROCCO: Pack your shit! We gotta get outta here! We gotta get out!
CONNOR: ( hopping into his boots ) What happened?
ROCCO: I killed em! Oh, Jesus! I killed em Hey, hey. Just calm down. Tell us what happened!
DONNA: Hey, hey. Just calm down. Tell us what happened!
MURPHY: Hey, hey. Just calm down. Tell us what happened!
ROCCO: No! Fuck you! You start getting excited! We gotta fucking go!
DONNA: ( packing up gear ) Who did you kill?
CONNOR: ( packing up gear ) Who did you kill?
MURPHY: ( packing up gear ) Holy shit. Who? How many?
ROCCO: ( rummaging through his drawers ) Hurry the fuck up!
MURPHY: This is some crazy shit, man!
ROCCO: Those cocksuckers sold me out!
CONNOR: Did I fuckin' tell ya, Rocco? They pull on you first?
DONNA: What did I fuckin' do?. in the middle of the Lakeview.
ROCCO!: What did I fuckin' do?. in the middle of the Lakeview.
ROCCO: What did I fuckin' do?. in the middle of the Lakeview.
CONNOR: Lakeview the deli? Oh, shit!
MURPHY: Ha! Ha! Roc, you got a jumbo set of coconut balls man!
ROCCO!: ( turns in rage ) ( softly ) Where's my cat?
ROCCO: ( turns in rage ) ( softly ) Where's my cat?
DONNA: ( softly ) Where's my cat?
ROCCO: ( slight pause ) I killed your fuckin' cat, you druggie ( shocked, hurt ) You. oh god, why?
DONNA: ( shocked, hurt ) You. oh god, why?
ROCCO: I felt it would bring closure to our You killed my. my.
DONNA: ( crying ) You killed my. my.
ROCCO: ( screaming ) Your what?! Your fuckin' what?!
DONNA: My, my.
ROCCO: ( puts his gun to his own head ) Your what, bitch? I'll shoot myself in the head, you can tell me that cats name! Go ahead. Your what? Your precious little. ( waiting for her response )
DONNA: ( flustered, crying ) Peeperman? WRONG? What color was It was. It was.
ROCCO: Peeperman? WRONG? What color was It was. It was.
DONNA: It was. It was.
ROCCO: Male or female, bitch?!!
RAYVIE: Don't you yell at her you fuckin' Shut your fat ass, Rayvie! I can't buy a pack of smokes without running into nine guys you fucked.
ROCCO: Shut your fat ass, Rayvie! I can't buy a pack of smokes without running into nine guys you fucked.
DONNA: Don't you yell at her!
ROCCO: All right, let's get the fuck outta
RAYVIE: Is my. I mean it's not really.?
DONNA: No. No. It's not fat.
ROCCO: Those rat fucks! All of them were all laughing at me man!
MURPHY: You sure you killed them?
VINNIE: I'll bet it was a test. Vincenzo came in here shooting his mouth off. He was makin' sure we knew. But we did what we were supposed to, eh? We kept our mouths shut. You did your part. They know we're goodfellas now. We'll get taken care of.
ROCCO: What? Did everyone know? Next thing you'll tell me Sal was in on it.
OLY: Fuck. Vincenzo told Sal first. That fat fuck knew before we did.
OLY: At least we got our funny man back.
CONNOR: Anybody see ya?
ROCCO: Fuck, man! I may as well have posted flyers. Right out in public, man.
MURPHY: Liberating isn't it?
ROCCO: ( smiles at last ) Y'know it is, a bit.
ROCCO: Stop the car!
ROCCO: Vincenzo, that fat motherfucker, Yakavetta's right hand. He's the one who set me up. Then he went around shooting his mouth off, telling everyone I was as good as dead. He goes in there every Wednesday night around 10:00, he jerks off in the same booth to the same titty dancer. Never misses.
MURPHY: So let's kill the motherfucker. I mean, what are you guys. like that's your new thing right?
ROCCO: So let's kill the motherfucker. I mean, what are you guys. like that's your new thing right?
CONNOR: ( looks at Murphy ) Yeah, well.
ROCCO: Oh, what the fuck? How do you guys decide who you're. I mean, who makes the cut? Is there a raffle or Well, truth be known, those first ones just kinda fell into our laps.
MURPHY: Well, truth be known, those first ones just kinda fell into our laps.
ROCCO: Well, what'ya do?
CONNOR: I guess we really don't have a system of deciding who.
ROCCO: ( excited, yelling ) MEEE! ME! I'm the guy! I know everyone, their habits, where they hang out, who they talk to. I know where they fuckin' live. We could kill everyone!
MURPHY: ( to Connor ) So what do you think?
CONNOR: I'm strangely comfortable with it.
MURPHY: Okay Roc, this is.
ROCCO: What? You guys got masks.
MURPHY: ( through laughter ) You look like Mush Mouth from Fat ( takes off mask ) Fine! Fuck it! When we're done she can I.D. me. I don't care. Just tryin' to be professional, but no.
ROCCO: ( takes off mask ) Fine! Fuck it! When we're done she can I.D. me. I don't care. Just tryin' to be professional, but no.
CONNOR: ( still laughing ) No. No. It looks good. C'mon, put it back on. It's good.
CONNOR: ( imitating mush mouth ) Okay Roc. You sure you're O-B-kay-B?
ROCCO: Which one is he in?
ROCCO: ( takes his hand off her mouth ) What's his routine?
DANCER: H. h. he jerks off in there. Th. then he puts money through the slot and I raise the door.
MURPHY: She points to an orange button. Each door has a button to the left of it.
ROCCO: Then what?
DANCER: He watches me do my thing and f- finishes himself off.
VINCENZO: ( grunting, muttering ) Don't you talk to me like that, you dirty little. give it to daddy. give it ta da King. garbage mouth, garbage mouth.
ROCCO: Oh man. He is some sicko.
CONNOR: You've earned this.
CONNOR: What the fuck are you doing?
ROCCO: I-I'll tip her.
MURPHY: We've teamed up with a sex offender.
CONNOR: So, when are you getting a plastic fuck doll?
ROCCO: All right. I'm sorry. I'm pathetic.
ROCCO: What? What is it?
CONNOR: This place is like a scumbag yard We gotta come down here once a week and clean house.
MURPHY: We gotta come down here once a week and clean house.
ROCCO: You sure about this guy?
ROCCO: Oh man. You gotta let me do these guys. I'm such a moron. I gotta make up for the tit thing.
CONNOR: No way. I've been waitin' for this Aw, c'mon. I gotta clear my family name here. I've brought shame to the house of Della Rocco.
ROCCO: Aw, c'mon. I gotta clear my family name here. I've brought shame to the house of Della Rocco.
MURPHY: Give the guy a shot.
CONNOR: ( thinks it over ) Rocco, this is the real deal. We must kill without hesitation, without guilt or remorse. Evil man, dead
ROCCO: Wyatt-fuckin'-Earp, man!
ROCCO: You guys gotta teach me that prayer, man. That's some good shit.
CONNOR: Forget it. It's a family prayer. My father, his father before him that sort of shit.
ROCCO: INT. RITZY RESTAURANT BATHROOM NIGHT An old man appears to look at himself in the mirror of an empty but very upper class bathroom. His eyes are very glazed over. He puts a large leather case on the counter near the sinks. A red and white blind stick hangs off his right Yakavetta enters, crosses behind him and stands next to him. AUGUSTUS ( 72 years ) sniffs the air. A look of angry realization overtakes his face.
AUGUSTUS: Fuck you.
YAKAVETTA: Hey, Augustus, I need your help, I got a serious problem here. I'm not screwing around.
AUGUSTUS: I bounced you on my knee at family reunions, for Christ sakes. Your dad and me ran the whole east coast syndicate you snot-nosed little prick. And when you took the wheel, who was beside you?
YAKAVETTA: Hey, I just.
AUGUSTUS: Don't start with your shit. Don't you talk to me. Oh, hey Uncle Gussy, thanks for years of service. Here's a gold watch and a job sniffing other guys' shit eight hours a day. What am I, a retired bus driver?
YAKAVETTA: I need Il Duce.
AUGUSTUS: The Duke? What did you do?
YAKAVETTA: This kid, this package boy could bring down the whole east coast. If he decides to turn states he could dismantle us. totally. But it looks like for now, he's content with just killing us one by one. And even worse the kid is good at it. I mean I had a prodigy on my hands the whole time and didn't even know it.
AUGUSTUS: Listen kid, I think you better understand who you're dealing with Yeah. I was only twelve or thirteen when you guys used to talk about him, like he was a ghost or something.
YAKAVETTA: Yeah. I was only twelve or thirteen when you guys used to talk about him, like he was a ghost or something.
AUGUSTUS: Your dad and I used him three times over twenty years, only when everything went totally fucked. Believe me kid, you don't want this guy unless you are 100% sure you need him. He is. a fuckin' monster.
MR. COBB: ( English accent ) Do you feel you have been
AUGUSTUS: I've had this guy in front of me, and I couldn't tell you what he looks like, sounds like. He is the Picasso of assassins, kid. He plants hair samples, blood. Puts skin under fingernails. He is a fucking genius. Only one problem. He's been rotting in prison for twenty-five or thirty years. Don't even know if he's still alive. Or if he's even up to it.
YAKAVETTA: There's ways around that.
AUGUSTUS: Go find one.
ROCCO: Let's talk some business here. I know a sick fuck. makes the ones we been doing look like altar boys. Worst night of my life when I met this guy.
ROCCO: The guy never says a fuckin' word to me. We're driving for 25 minutes. Never a sigh, no throat clearing, nothing. And his face, blank man. Just nothing there.
ROCCO: I didn't see what he was doing while he was in there.
THE MAN: I have a poker game at the house every Saturday with a couple of guys you know. Why don't you come down? Wife makes a hell of a bar-g-que.
ROCCO: ( pause ) Yeah. yeah, I'd like that. Tell me something. What did they do?
THE MAN: I don't know.
ROCCO: Worst day of my life, man.
MURPHY: ( pause ) Well, I'm sold.
CONNOR: Don't worry, Roc. We'll do this guy right and you'll feel a lot better.
CONNOR: Who the fuck was he, Rocco? I know you fuckin' know!
ROCCO: Fuck you! I told you I never saw him Well he sure as fuck knew you!
MURPHY: Well he sure as fuck knew you!
ROCCO: Fuck you both! Ya ask me, he was aiming at you!
SMECKER: Okay. Here's what happened.
SMECKER: They waited in a parked car down the street for the kid to leave.
MURPHY: There he goes. Okay, gentlemen. Are we ready to bring this man into the light? Are we ready to truly do the work of the This is so fuckin' cool!
CONNOR: ( cocks his pistol ) This is so fuckin' cool!
ROCCO: This is so fuckin' cool!
SMECKER: They went in through the garage. The kid says he leaves it open when he takes his bike out.
ROCCO: Don't fuck with me lady. I'll kill The wife says she doesn't know what happened after she hit the code. She just remembers going down. But, judging by the burn mark on her back, I think what they did.
SMECKER: The wife says she doesn't know what happened after she hit the code. She just remembers going down. But, judging by the burn mark on her back, I think what they did.
SMECKER: .was use a stun gun on her.
SMECKER: Now the guy knows a friend is coming to the game. And they know that this door can only be opened from the inside. So they wait. and when that door opens, man.
ROCCO: All of them. Nobody was ready for it. Devastation, panic! This was like shooting fish in a fuckin' barrel!
SMECKER: Nobody was ready for it. Devastation, panic! This was like shooting fish in a fuckin' barrel!
SMECKER: Now these guys dove under the table. The trajectory on the bullets show they came from straight across. So this means one of our shooters. dropped to his knees.
ROCCO: Shit!. Shit! He ain't here.
MURPHY: What the fuck do you mean?
ROCCO: I mean he ain't here.
CONNOR: Look again for fuck sake!
ROCCO: I know what the fuck he looks like!
SMECKER: Something went wrong. Right here.
CONNOR: Let the boy go!
MURPHY: C'mon Roc!
SMECKER: Now, one of these guys is a real sicko. He knew this man. He wanted him to suffer, to feel every second of a painful death. Help me you assholes! He's gonna fuckin' kill me!
ROCCO: Help me you assholes! He's gonna fuckin' kill me!
SMECKER: This guy is one bad motherfucker.
ROCCO: I don't wanna die!!!!!
SMECKER: I've never seen wounds like these before, but whatever he used on this guy, it was a blunt object and they took it with them.
SMECKER: They exited out the front door. And they had no fucking idea what they were in for.
SMECKER: Now they are staring at six guys with guns drawn. It was a fucking And this was a fucking bomb dropping in Beaver Cleaverville! For a few seconds this place was Armageddon! There was a fire fight!
SMECKER: And this was a fucking bomb dropping in Beaver Cleaverville! For a few seconds this place was Armageddon! There was a fire fight!
IL DUCE: No!. No! No!.
GREENLY: What if it was just one guy with six Why don't you let me do the thinking, huh, genius?
SMECKER: Why don't you let me do the thinking, huh, genius?
SMECKER: What is taking so long with those blood samples?
SMECKER: ( in shock, and rage ) They used ammonia. none of this shit is any good. Fuck. You know what this means?! Even if we get suspects in this case, we got nothing. Nothing! ( screaming ) Who the fuck are they?! I've never seen any-fucking-thing like this in my whole fucking life. Who the fuck are they?!! What? That's it?!
SMECKER: ( screaming ) Who the fuck are they?! I've never seen any-fucking-thing like this in my whole fucking life. Who the fuck are they?!! What? That's it?!
DUFFY: What? That's it?!
CONNOR: ( points to TV ) What, that guy?
ROCCO: ( points to TV ) What, that guy?
MURPHY: That's the guy that got us off the hook with the "Checkov" thing.
CONNOR: And he is one smart man.
ROCCO: They got nothing.
CONNOR: This guy is very sharp. If he hasn't figured us out yet, he will.
MURPHY: You bet your ass he will.
ROCCO: Well, I'd say that makes him a lia-
CONNOR: He isn't to be touched.
MURPHY: He's a good man.
ROCCO: Okay. whatever. My Mom's gonna kill me.
SMECKER: No. This is all wrong. David Della
SMECKER: Yeah. Maria, this is Smecker. Could you find me the visitor's list for the day the MacManus brothers were in and read me all the names?
SMECKER: Okay, thank you.
BARTENDER: You've had quite a bit, Paul. Are you sure you.
SMECKER: Pour the drink, faggot-ass!
SMECKER: Okay. But I don't cuddle.
ROCCO: Hey! We gotta talk about this early morning church shit.
MURPHY: We have to go now. We're on the lamb.
ROCCO: You gonna do what I say, got it?
PRIEST: I'm sorry you're gonna hafta see this. Don't look at me!
ROCCO: I'm sorry you're gonna hafta see this. Don't look at me!
PRIEST: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I didn't see.
ROCCO: Shut up! Shut the fuck up!
PRIEST: Don't do this my son.
ROCCO: Open it!
PRIEST: Have you no fear of God?
ROCCO: That's who I'm doing this for, now open the fuckin' thing. Father, I'll do you right here.
ROCCO: Father, I'll do you right here.
PRIEST: ( slowly obey, whispering ) God have mercy on my soul.
CONNOR: ( hard whisper ) You little fuck. Let him go. I'll drop you right here.
ROCCO: Okay, just calm down. He could hurt us, brother. He could ruin the whole Let him go or I will deliver you, right now.
CONNOR: Let him go or I will deliver you, right now.
ROCCO: You won't do it Connor, you won't. You love me man.
SMECKER: ( slurred, loud ) Hello? You there?
PRIEST: Y-Yes my son.
ROCCO: ( whispers ) Do your thing Father. Don't fuck this up.
PRIEST: ( whispering to Rocco ) What do you want me to say?
ROCCO: Just be natural, goddamit.
PRIEST: How long since your last confession, my son?
SMECKER: Oh, Christ, uh, I've never confessed. According to the dogma of the Catholic church, I should probably burst into flames right here in this booth. But I've come here for advice, not
SMECKER: According to the dogma of the Catholic church, I should probably burst into flames right here in this booth. But I've come here for advice, not
PRIEST: Why have you come to a church for council if you're not religious?
SMECKER: ( ponderous ) Why have I come to a church? I never have before. I guess I just. felt I should.
PRIEST: What is it my son?
SMECKER: It's ethics. I put evil men behind bars, but the law has miles of red tape and loopholes for these. cocksuckers to slip through. I've found out there are these two young men who fix the situation with an iron fist. As if they have God's permission. But what they do is wrong and I should arrest them. God's permission? God doesn't.
PRIEST: God's permission? God doesn't.
SMECKER: But in this day and age I believe what they do is. necessary. I feel it is. correct.
PRIEST: You believe?
SMECKER: You feel?
PRIEST: You feel?
SMECKER: You feel? A soul is what gives you feelings. Happiness, guilt, right or wrong. It is a conduit through which the Lord speaks to us. You felt that your answers would be here in the house of God today. You feel these men are necessary. The Lord has spoken to you twice this day.
PRIEST: You feel? A soul is what gives you feelings. Happiness, guilt, right or wrong. It is a conduit through which the Lord speaks to us. You felt that your answers would be here in the house of God today. You feel these men are necessary. The Lord has spoken to you twice this day.
SMECKER: ( sarcastically ) Has he now?
PRIEST: You have entered the house of the Lord of your own free will speaking of beliefs and feelings. Is it so much to believe that God has brought you here?
SMECKER: I guess not.
PRIEST: It is easy to be sarcastic about religion. It is harder to take small hints from God, your feelings and listen to them. to take a stand.
SMECKER: You're right.
PRIEST: Those who do not act are in a constant state of ethical indecision.
SMECKER: I want to stand for what I believe in, father.
PRIEST: Then you must find out what your beliefs are.
SMECKER: I believe these young men are right.
PRIEST: You know them personally?
SMECKER: Do you think they would harm an innocent man, for any reason?
PRIEST: Do you think they would harm an innocent man, for any reason?
SMECKER: No. They would never do that.
SMECKER: Well, the two Irish guys wouldn't. But the Italian guy, he might. He's kind of an idiot.
ROCCO: ( whispers to priest ) Goddam right, I am.
SMECKER: I'm beginning to see. I've been doing my job. well for fifteen years and it's just not enough. All the things I wish I could do, these guys are doing. Millions of dollars in tax payers' money wasted on shit like wire taps and surveillance. Theses boys go in and take care of it for the price of a bullet. Ww-what do you think I should do? Because I'm a law man.
PRIEST: The laws of God are higher than the laws of man.
SMECKER: ( the clouds have lifted ) Yes! Yes! I was thinking that, too. No. I was feeling it. All I needed was to hear you say it! Amen! I'll help them.
PRIEST: ( whispers ) Forgive me father.
SMECKER: Thank you, Father, thank you. Whatever. Goodbye, amen.
ROCCO: I wouldn't have, uh, killed you, Dominus Ominus. Remember, you're bound. You can't talk about this. to anyone.
PRIEST: Just go!
ROCCO: ( giggling ) The Lord works in mysterious ways.
SMECKER: That's all you can give me?
CONNOR: Well, the light caught the side of his face for a second. And it looked like he had a gray beard, maybe. late fifties, early sixties.
SMECKER: So you're telling me it was one guy with six guns? A-and he was a senior fucking citizen?
CONNOR: I think it's better if we find this man before he finds us again.
SMECKER: I'll see what I can do. How do I get in touch with you?
CONNOR: We're going to hit Poppa Joe tonight, right in the comfort of his own home. Then we move on to New York. It's getting a bit hot for us here.
SMECKER: Be careful.
CONNOR: I'll call you tonight, afterwards.
AUGUSTUS: I don't know who he is. Nobody does.
SMECKER: What did he bring him in for?
AUGUSTUS: Needed an outsider. The package boy knows everyone. He'd spot our hitters a mile away.
SMECKER: Just for him?
AUGUSTUS: Well he's the one shooting up all his guys, right? He's scared of the kid. Says he's real good, got every available gun in the city up there.
SMECKER: Up where?
AUGUSTUS: Up his house. I don't know what's going on but I know it's gotta have something to do with this kid.
SMECKER: Oh fuck!
YAKAVETTA: ( yelling ) You gonna tell me what's going on here?! Huh! You little fuck! Gimme some answers!
YAKAVETTA: What do you guys think?
GENO: They're tough. No way they're gonna I know Rocco. He ain't smart enough for this shit. These other guys are the brains. He's just a player.
HOJO: I know Rocco. He ain't smart enough for this shit. These other guys are the brains. He's just a player.
YAKAVETTA: There's only one way to get them to
ROCCO: ( struggles to talk ) You guys?
CONNOR: ( crying ) We're here brother.
ROCCO: You gotta keep going.
MURPHY: ( sobbing ) We'll keep going, Roc.
ROCCO: You'll make it outta here. You can't ever stop, not ever.
CHAPPY: Once you set him in motion, you can't call him off. He thinks it's still
YAKAVETTA: Oh Jesus Christ!
HOJO: What? I.
YAKAVETTA: Hey, I don't have my name spray painted on the front of this house. There are no big pictures of me anywhere. If this guy thinks the job is still a go then I got green money says the mother fucker's out in the bushes already. I'm fucking gone! I'm leaving you guys to deal with
GENO: One fucking guy, so what.
HOJO: Why don't you take the front. You guys cover those other exits and if you see him, don't flag him down, just kill the mother fucker. I'm going back down to work on these
GENO: Listen baby. Tonight ain't the night for this shit. Bevo's so great. Always sending us hot girls.
SMECKER: You look like you could use a quickie.
GENO: Hey, Chappy!
CHAPPY: ( Chappy, emerges way down the hall ) What the fuck?
GENO: I ain't been laid in a week. Take five minutes.
CHAPPY: If I die cause you're getting a piece of ass, I'll come back and beat you to death with a big rubber dick.
GENO: Don't worry about it.
CONNOR: How far are we going with this, Da?
FATHER: The questions is not, "how far?" The question is, "Do you possess the constitution, the depth of faith to go as far as is needed?"
FATHER: How long do these put a man down Ten minutes. Twenty is a bit better. Due to the lack of hard evidence.. All media to the back! Drop the cameras! Drop 'em! You people have been chosen to reveal our existence to the world. You will witness what happens here today and you will tell of it afterwards.
MURPHY: Ten minutes. Twenty is a bit better. Due to the lack of hard evidence.. All media to the back! Drop the cameras! Drop 'em! You people have been chosen to reveal our existence to the world. You will witness what happens here today and you will tell of it afterwards.
FATHER: Twenty is a bit better. Due to the lack of hard evidence.. All media to the back! Drop the cameras! Drop 'em! You people have been chosen to reveal our existence to the world. You will witness what happens here today and you will tell of it afterwards.
JUDGE: Due to the lack of hard evidence.. All media to the back! Drop the cameras! Drop 'em! You people have been chosen to reveal our existence to the world. You will witness what happens here today and you will tell of it afterwards.
FATHER: All media to the back! Drop the cameras! Drop 'em! You people have been chosen to reveal our existence to the world. You will witness what happens here today and you will tell of it afterwards.
FATHER: ( loudly ) You people have been chosen to reveal our existence to the world. You will witness what happens here today and you will tell of it afterwards.
YAKAVETTA: ( looking to his comrades ) Fuckin' do something!
CONNOR: ( yelling over the alarm ) Now, you will receive us.
MURPHY: ( yelling over the alarm ) We do not ask for your poor or your We do not want your tired and sick.
CONNOR: We do not want your tired and sick.
MURPHY: It is your corrupt we claim.
CONNOR: It is your evil, who will be sought by us.
MURPHY: With every breath we shall hunt them Each day we will spill their blood till it rains down from the skies.
CONNOR: Each day we will spill their blood till it rains down from the skies.
MURPHY: Do not kill, do not rape, do not steal. These are principles which every man of every faith can embrace.
CONNOR: These are not polite suggestions. They are codes of behavior and those that ignore them will pay the dearest
MURPHY: There are varying degrees of evil. We urge you lesser forms of filth Not to push the bounds and cross over into true corruption. into our domain.
CONNOR: For if you do, there will come the day when you look behind you and see we three. And on that day you will reap it.
MURPHY: And we will send you to whatever God you wish.
WOMAN: I guess we all know what is right and wrong. We all know. Nobody needs to be convinced of what he was. I'm going home now to have my first real full night's sleep.
THE END: Writers : Troy Duffy
