INTERVIEWER: Deputy minister, what do you believe is behind this recent increase in terrorist bombings?
HELPMANN: Bad sportsmanship. A ruthless minority of people seems to have forgotten certain good old fashioned virtues. They just can't stand seeing the other fellow win. If these people would just play the game, instead of standing on the touch line heckling -
INTERVIEWER: In fact, killing people -
HELPMANN: - In fact, killing people - they'd get a lot more out of life.
INTERVIEWER: Mr. HELPMANN, what would you say to those critics who maintain that the Ministry Of Information has become too large and unwieldy .?
HELPMANN: David . in a free society information is the name of the game. You can't win the game if you're a man short.
INTERVIEWER: And the cost of it all, Deputy Minister? Seven percent of the gross national produce .
HELPMANN: I understand this concern on behalf of the tax-payers. People want value for money and a cost-effective
HELPMANN: That is why we always insist on the principle of Information Retrieval Charges. These terrorists are not pulling their weight, and it's absolutely right and fair that those found guilty should pay for their periods of detention and the Information Retrieval Procedures used in their interrogation.
INTERVIEWER: Do you think that the government is winning the battle against On yes. Our morale is much higher than theirs, we're fielding all their strokes, running a lot of them out, and pretty consistently knocking them for six. I'd say they're nearly out of the game.
HELPMANN: On yes. Our morale is much higher than theirs, we're fielding all their strokes, running a lot of them out, and pretty consistently knocking them for six. I'd say they're nearly out of the game.
INTERVIEWER: But the bombing campaign is now in its thirteenth year .
HELPMANN: Beginner's luck. Thank you very much, Deputy Minister.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much, Deputy Minister.
HELPMANN: Thank you, David . and a very merry Christmas to you all.
JILL: ( scared ) Who's there?
MRS BUTTLE: There, that's enough for tonight. He won't come Xmas Eve if you don't get plenty of sleep.
GIRL BUTTLE: Father Christmas can't come if we haven't got a chimney.
MRS BUTTLE: You'll see.
GIRL BUTTLE: How will he get down from upstairs?
BOY BUTTLE: It's a secret.
GIRL BUTTLE: ( unalarmed ) You've come .
OFFICIAL: I hereby inform you under powers entrusted to me under Section 47, Paragraph 7 of Council Order Number 438476, that Mr Buttle, Archibald, residing at 412 North Tower, Shangri La Towers, has been invited to assist the Ministry of Information with certain enquiries, the nature of which may be ascertained on completion of application form BZ/ST/486/C fourteen days within this date, and that he is liable to certain obligations as specified in Council Order 173497, including financial restitutions which may or may not be incurred if Information Retrieval procedures beyond those incorporated in Article 7 subsections 8, 10 & 32 are required to elicit information leading to permanent arrest - notification of which will he served with the time period of 5 working days as stipulated by law. In that instance the detainee will be debited without further notice through central banking procedures without prejudice until and unless at such a time when re-imbursement procedures may be instituted by you or third parties on completion of a re-imbursement form RB/CZ/907/X .
OFFICIAL: ( proffering a pen and a thick book of pink receipts to Mrs Buttle ) Sign here please.
MRS BUTTLE: ( dazed. She signs weakly ) What? where have you taken him?
OFFICIAL: ( taking the book ) thank you. ( he hands her another book, this one of blue receipts ) ( indicating place to sign ) Same again please. Just there. ( checking first book of receipts ) Press harder his time. Good.
MRS BUTTLE: ( signing again ) What is this all about?
OFFICIAL: ( tearing out sheet from pink book ) That's your receipt for your husband. ( taking blue book from her ) Thank you. And this is my receipt for your receipt. ( he turns to leave along with troopers )
JILL: Mrs Buttle, are you alright?
CHARLIE: ( starting back from the hole with Bill and Jill ) Eh! Eh! Eh! We're Department of Works! Department of Works up here! Careful with those bloody things!
BILL: ( to Jill as they watch this highly efficient operation ) Don't take any notice, love, it's their training makes them like animals. Best in the world, though.
JILL: Who are you?
CHARLIE: Don't you worry love, we'll have everything shipshape in a jiffy.
BILL: That's it. Nothing to worry about.
CHARLIE: It's Buttle downstairs who can worry, There must be some mistake . Mr Buttle's harmless.
JILL: There must be some mistake . Mr Buttle's harmless.
BILL: We don't make mistakes.
CHARLIE: Bloody typical, they've gone back to metric without telling us
MR KURTZMAN: ( into intercom ) Mr Lowry, will you step in here
MR KURTZMAN: Does anyone know where Lowry is?
MR KURTZMAN: ( Shouting into intercom ) Where the hell is Sam Lowry?!
SAM: Hello . What . what? Oh . Mr Kurtzman! . You're up late. Oh, is
SAM: ( into phone ) The electronics here are up the spout. Yours too, sir? Don't worry sir - I'll be there.
JACK: Long time no see!
SAM: Long time no see!
JACK: Long time no see!
SAM: Well, since you disappeared up the ladder of Information Retrieval . I don't expect to see you slumming in Records - what's the problem?
JACK: Problem? - No problem - yes, everything's going fantastically well, wonderful, marvelous, great career prospects, Alison in great shape, kids fine, beautiful home, I'm on Security Level Five now, and Mr Helpmann relies on me more and more, yes, couldn't be better, I feel terrifically motivated and job- rewarded -
SAM: You sound worried.
JACK: Me? - if I'm worried about anyone, it's you. What happened to you, Sam? You were the brightest of us -
JACK: What's the matter?
SAM: Sorry. Nothing. See you - I'm going to be late.
JACK: ( looking at his watch ) You are late.
SAM: Even later.
JACK: Sam, your life is going wrong - let your friends tell you - Records is a dead end department, no Security Level worth a damn, it's impossible to get noticed -
SAM: Yes, I know, fantastic, marvellous, wonderful - remember me to Alison - and the - er - twins.
JACK: Really? - God, how time flies!
SAM: Really? - God, how time flies!
JILL: I want to report a wrongful arrest.
PORTER: ( looking at form ) You want Information Adjustments. Different department.
JILL: ( exasperated but controlled ) I've been to Information Adjustments. They sent me here. They told me you had a form I had to fill in.
PORTER: Have you got an Arrest Receipt?
JILL: Is it stamped?
PORTER: Is it stamped?
JILL: ( producing Buttle receipt ) ( examining receipt ) No, there's no stamp on it. You see! I can't give you the form until it's Where do I get it stamped?
PORTER: ( examining receipt ) No, there's no stamp on it. You see! I can't give you the form until it's Where do I get it stamped?
JILL: Where do I get it stamped?
PORTER: Information Adjustments.
KURTZMAN: Perhaps the machine's on the blink! It keeps picking up old films. That can't he right, can it?
SAM: It's not the machine. There's a mismatch on the personnel code numbers. Ah there we go! That's a B58/732 when it should be a T47/215 . Tuttle . he should have £31.06, debited against his account for electrical procedures, not Buttle.
KURTZMAN: Oh my God, a mistake!
SAM: It's not our mistake!
KURTZMAN: ( eagerly ) Isn't it? Whose is it?
SAM: Information Retrieval.
KURTZMAN: Oh, good!
SAM: Expediting has put in for electrical procedures in respect of Buttle, Archibald, shoe repair operative, but Security has invoiced Admin for Tuttle, Archibald, heating engineer
KURTZMAN: What a relief! I don't know what I'd do if you ever got promoted.
SAM: Don't worry.
KURTZMAN: But if they did promote you
SAM: I've told you before. I'd turn it Would you really, Sam?
KURTZMAN: Would you really, Sam?
SAM: ( churned up ) You've been promoted.
KURTZMAN: ( churned up ) You've been promoted.
KURTZMAN: It's your mother isn't it? Pulling strings again.
SAM: ( explodes ) What a BITCH!
DOCTOR: Now, when you come in tomorrow, Mrs Lowry, we'll make a little tuck here . and there .
SAM: ( angrily ) I just wish you would stop interfering, mother! I don't want promotion. I'm happy where I am.
MOTHER: No you're not. Jack Lint is a lesson to you - he never had your brains but he's got the ambition. You haven't got the ambition but luckily you've got me. And Mr Helpmann. Mr Helpmann was very close -
DOCTOR: Now, Mrs Lowry, don't get upset Please wait in reception, Mr Lowry, you're giving her wrinkles.
MOTHER: You see!
SAM: ( groans )
DOCTOR: Now Mrs Lowry, try to relax. You must trust me. I'll make you twenty years younger .
SAM: ( giving Sam a dirty look ) . twenty-five if we just drain the excess fluid from the pouches .
DOCTOR: ( giving Sam a dirty look ) . twenty-five if we just drain the excess fluid from the pouches .
MOTHER: Dr Jaffe, you're a genius. Would you like to be Surgeon General? Four Star. I know everybody.
DOCTOR: Well they won't know you when I've finished with you.
DOCTOR: First we must eliminate the excess derma . so! . Then the flaccid tissues under the eyes . And now the forehead . Zip! I lift the wrinkles and worry lines right up into the wi- into the hairline, comme ca .
DOCTOR: And now the template . There . there . there . Now a bit of sticky . There we go! Already she is twice as beautiful as she was before - voila!
SAM: My God, it works.
MOTHER: ( in full flow ) Mr Helpmann was very close to your poor father. He was very close to me. Still is. He'll take you under his wing at Information Retrieval. You'll like it when you get there.
SAM: You're not listening, mother.
MOTHER: It's a present for my son.
MOTHER: I hope you like it. It's very What is it?
SAM: What is it?
MOTHER: It's something for executives.
MAITRE D: Madam Lowry, how exquisite to see you again. Merry Christmas.
MOTHER: Hello, Spiro. Merry Christmas.
SPIRO: ( blocking Sam's way ) I'm sorry but .
MOTHER: You remember Samuel, my son.
SPIRO: {suddenly unctious ) Oh, but of course .
MOTHER: We're meeting Mrs Terrain.
SAM: Are we?
SPIRO: Ah yes, the lady is waiting.
SAM: Mother, I thought we were going to be able to talk .. Oh God, she's got what's he name with her.
MRS TERRAIN: Ida! Sam!
MOTHER: Alma, how are you? You're looking wonderful! Hello, Shirley.
SHIRLEY: ( shy to Sam ) ( to Shirley ) Not yet. ( to Sam and Mother ) Happy Christmas, Sam.
MRS TERRAIN: ( to Shirley ) Not yet. ( to Sam and Mother ) Happy Christmas, Sam.
MOTHER: Sorry we're late. Shall we order? Get it out of the way. What are you going to have Alma?
MRS TERRAIN: I can't make up my mind whether to have a number one or a number two. What do you recommend, Spiro?
SPIRO: ( conspiratorially ) Between you and me, Madam, today the number two.
MRS TERRAIN: Thank you, Spiro. Shirley, what are you going to have?
SHIRLEY: ( panics quietly )
SPIRO: ( conspiratorially ) Between you and me, Mademoiselle, today the number one. Madam Lowry?
MOTHER: Oh, to hell with the diet, a number eight, please.
SPIRO: A most perceptive choice, Madam, if I may say so. A steak, please. Rare. Mother, I need to .
SAM: ( brusquely ) A steak, please. Rare. ( to his mother ) Mother, I need to .
SPIRO: ( piqued ) Monsieur. Quel numero.
SAM: ( handing back menu ) I don't know which numero.
SPIRO: ( writing on pad ) Numero, trois.
MOTHER: ( trying to restart things ) Alma, you wicked thing . ( indicating bandages ) you've started your treatment.
MRS TERRAIN: You noticed. I must tell you all about it.
SAM: ( to his mother ) Mother, will you listen to
SPIRO: ( showing off that he remembers who's ordered what ) Numero huit, braised veal in wine ( he sets it in front of Sam's Mother )
MRS TERRAIN: It's too exciting. I've left Dr Jaffe and gone to Dr. Chapman.
SPIRO: Numero deux, duck a l'orange.
MOTHER: The acid man?
MRS TERRAIN: Really, Ida, just because his techniques are revolutionary . I don't go around calling Dr Jaffe the knife man.
SPIRO: Numero une, crevettes à la
MOTHER: I'm sorry Alma, I didn't mean to sound so .
MRS TERRAIN: That's all right Ida . it's just that he's such an artist. To him, cutting is so crude . so primitive.
SPIRO: Numero trois, steak. Monsieur, Mesdames, Bon appetit.
MRS TERRAIN: Acid on the other hand, can be used for such wonderfully subtle shading, such delicate nuances - just like a Rembrant etching . and it's so much quicker. Why, if it weren't for a teensy-weensy complication - the doctor said it could have happened to anyone - I would have had these bandages off yesterday.
SHIRLEY: ( to Sam, after attracting her mother's attention and receiving a nod )
MOTHER: What were we saying?
SAM: ( picking bomb debris out of his brown lump ) This isn't rare!
MOTHER: By the way, I saw a wonderful idea for Christmas presents at the chemists. Gift tokens. Medical gift Oh, that sounds marvellous.
MRS TERRAIN: Oh, that sounds marvellous.
MOTHER: Yes, they're good at any doctor's and at many of the major hospitals - and they're accepted for gynecological complications including Caesarian
SAM: Look - please - I'm sorry - but honestly, mother, this is -
MAITRE D: I am sorry, Madam . I don't know what to say . this very rarely happens to us - I'll do what I can straight away
MRS TERRAIN: Really, Sam - when are you going to do something about these terrorists?
SAM: What? Now? It's my lunch hour.
MOTHER: Actually, Alma, that's one of the little things I was dying to tell you . Sam's been promoted to Information Retrieval.
SAM: ( angry and surprised ) Oh that's wonderful! Congratulations You can show those fucking murderous bastards a thing or two.
MRS TERRAIN: Oh that's wonderful! Congratulations You can show those fucking murderous bastards a thing or two.
SHIRLEY: You can show those fucking murderous bastards a thing or two.
MRS TERRAIN: ( shocked and embarrassed ) Stop this! ( leaping to his feet ) I'm not being promoted. I'm not going to Information Retrieval! ( he scrumples promotion notification which he has been holding and throws it on the floor ) If I want you to stick your oar in, mother, I'll tell you where to stick
SAM: Stop this! I'm not being promoted. I'm not going to Information Retrieval! If I want you to stick your oar in, mother, I'll tell you where to stick
SHIRLEY: ( back to her uncertain form ) Look - I've got to get back -
SAM: Look - I've got to get back -
MOTHER: Sam . you haven't had dessert.
SAM: I'm sorry. I don' t want dessert. I don't want promotion. I don't want Don't be childish, Samuel. Of course you want something. You must have hopes, wishes, dreams.
MOTHER: Don't be childish, Samuel. Of course you want something. You must have hopes, wishes, dreams.
SAM: ( shouts loud )
SAM: I'm taking you to a safe place. A place where they will never be able to get at us . ever.
SAM: There's no way they can approach us without being seen. You're safe here.
SAM: ( into phone ) Hello - Central Services - I'm at 579B Block l9, Northwestern Section D - that's exit 1 on Green Pastures Highway at the Orange Blossom Flyover - and I've got trouble with the air- Thank you or calling Central Services. am sorry, due to temporary staff shortage, Central Services cannot take service calls centrally between 2300 and 0900 hours - have a nice day - this has not been a recording, incident-
PHONE VOICE: Thank you or calling Central Services. am sorry, due to temporary staff shortage, Central Services cannot take service calls centrally between 2300 and 0900 hours - have a nice day - this has not been a recording, incident-
SAM: This is an emergency!
PHONE VOICE: Thank you for calling Central Services. I am sorry, due -
SAM: Yes, but. I've got to have a heating Thank you for calling Cen -
PHONE VOICE: Thank you for calling Cen -
GENT: Ah ha . there you are, Sam.
SAM: What? How do you know my name?
GENT: We know everything here. This is the Storeroom of Knowledge.
SAM: ( climbing onto the platform ) Then perhaps you can help me. I've lost someone who .
GENT: ( interrupting ) We know that too. You've come to the right place.
GENT: Oh, yes. We've got everything here. Every bit of knowledge, wisdom, learning . every experience, every thought neatly filed away.
SAM: ( incredulous ) What? You mean you've got .
GENT: Well not exactly. But, if you help us we'll help you. The Forces Of Darkness have won the day . but, tomorrow is another one
SAM: What do I have to do.
GENT: You must save the day.
GENT: This is the Sword Of Truth . and this the Helmet Of Justice.
GENT: And this. completes the outfit.
GENT: It won't be pleasant but, trust me.
SAM: Hello . hello .
PHONE VOICE: Hello. Mr Lowry?
SAM: Who's that?
PHONE VOICE: Put the phone down and your hands up.
SAM: ( into the phone ) What? Who is this?
TUTTLE: Nice and easy now. Keep your hands where I can see them.
SAM: What is this? Who the hell are you?
TUTTLE: Harry Tuttle. Heating engineer. At your service.
SAM: Tuttle! Are you from Central But . I called Central Services.
TUTTLE: But . I called Central Services.
SAM: But . I called Central Services.
TUTTLE: They're a bit overworked these days. Luckily I intercepted your call.
SAM: By now, BOTH are pouring with sweat. TUTTLE heads across the room and swiftly begins to undo a wall panel.
SAM: Wait a minute, what was that business with the gun?
TUTTLE: A little precaution, sir. I've had traps set for me before now. There are people in Central Services who'd love to get their hands on Harry Are you saying this is illegal?
SAM: Are you saying this is illegal?
. BRAZIL!!: Well, yes . and no. Officially, only Central Service operatives are supposed to touch this stuff . Could you hold these.
TUTTLE: Well, yes . and no. Officially, only Central Service operatives are supposed to touch this stuff . Could you hold these.
TUTTLE: ( he hands Sam a bunch of wires that he has detached ) . but, with all the new rules and regulations . unncgh, c'mon, c'mon . they can't get decent staff any more . so . they tend to turn a blind eye . as long as I'm careful. ( he hands Sam a torch ) . Mind you, if ever they could prove I'd been working on their equipment . well, that's a different matter . up a bit with the torch, sir.
SAM: Sorry. wouldn't it be easier just to work for Central Services?
TUTTLE: Couldn't stand the pa - ah - we're getting warm -
SAM: The pace?
TUTTLE: The paperwork, couldn't stand the Over to the left please, if you don't mind sir. Hold it there. Yes, there's more bits of paper in Central Services than bits of pipe - read this, fill in that, hand in the other - listen, this old system of yours could be on fire and I couldn't even turn on the kitchen tap without filling in a 27B/6.. Bloody Well I suppose one has to expect a certain amount
SAM: ( mildly ) Well I suppose one has to expect a certain amount
TUTTLE: Why? I came into this game for adventure - go anywhere, travel light, get in, get out, wherever there's trouble, a man alone. Now they've got the whole country sectioned of and you can't move without a form. I'm the last of a breed. Ah ha! Found it! There's your problem.
SAM: Can you fix it?
TUTTLE: No. But I can bypass it with one of
SAM: The door bell. TUTTLE grabs for his gun.
TUTTLE: Are you expecting anyone?
SAM: No. Wait here.
SAM: Central Services.
SPOOR: Central Services.
DOWSER: Uh - what? - I .
SAM: Uh - what? - I .
SPOOR: You telephone, sir.
DOWSER: .elephoned sir.
SPOOR: Trouble with your air-conditioning.
DOWSER: ( gulps ) No, not at all. I mean, it's all right. It's fixed.
SAM: ( gulps ) No, not at all. I mean, it's all right. It's fixed.
SPOOR: They don't like that.
DOWSER: They don't like that.
SAM: I mean it fixed itself.
SPOOR: Fixed itself.
DOWSER: .ixed itself.
SPOOR: Machines don't fix themselves.
DOWSER: . fix themselves.
SPOOR: He's tampered with it, Dowser.
DOWSER: .ampered. with it, Spoor.
SAM: Look, I'm sorry about your wasted
SPOOR: ( to Dowser ) I think we'd better have a look.
DOWSER: . have a look.
SAM: No you can't.
SAM: Just a minute!
SAM: Have you got a 27B/6?
SPOOR: ( to Sam ) Now look what you've done to him.
SAM: Have you got one or haven't you?
SPOOR: Not . as such .
SPOOR: But we can get one.
SPOOR: ( worried about Dowser ) It's all right, Terry, it's all right, everything's all right.
SAM: ( ushering them to the door ) I'm sorry, but I'm a bit of a stickler for paper work. Where would we be if we didn't follow the correct We'll be back.
SPOOR: We'll be back.
DOWSER: .Be back.
SAM: ( Closing the door on them ) Thank you.
TUTTLE: Thanks, Lowry, you're a good man in a tight corner.
SAM: Listen .. um . I don't want to get involved in any of this. But I work at the Ministry of Information, and I happen to know that Information Retrieval have been looking for an Archibald Tuttle, Heating Engineer. You wouldn't by any chance be -
TUTTLE: ( pleased ) My friends call me Harry. Information Retrieval, eh? Interesting!
SAM: What do they want you or?
TUTTLE: Time to go.
SAM: Thank you very much. How much will On the house. You did me a favor. Check the corridor.
TUTTLE: On the house. You did me a favor. Check the corridor.
SAM: All clear.
SAM: Hey that's a dead end.
NEIGHBOUR: I think Kurtzman getting is What have we got on today?
SAM: What have we got on today?
NEIGHBOUR: KURTZMAN appears in his doorway.
KURTZMAN: ( calls out ) Mr Lowry! Would you step in here a moment please.
KURTZMAN: ( hysterically ) Thank God you're here! We're in terrible trouble! Look at this! Look at this!
SAM: ( taking the paper ) A cheque.
KURTZMAN: The refund for Tuttle!
SAM: ( startled ) I mean, Buttle! It's been confusion from the word go! He's been wrongly charged for Electromemorytherapy and someone somewhere is trying to make us carry the can!
KURTZMAN: I mean, Buttle! It's been confusion from the word go! He's been wrongly charged for Electromemorytherapy and someone somewhere is trying to make us carry the can!
SAM: I've never seen a Ministry cheque We've got to get rid of it! There's been a balls-up somewhere, and when the music stops they'll jump on whoever's holding the cheque!
KURTZMAN: We've got to get rid of it! There's been a balls-up somewhere, and when the music stops they'll jump on whoever's holding the cheque!
SAM: Send it to somebody else. Send it to Buttle. It's his cheque.
KURTZMAN: I've tried that! Population Census have got him down as dormanted, the Central Collective Storehouse computer has got him down as deleted, and the Information Retrieval have got him down as inoperative . Security has him down as excised., Admin have him down as completed
SAM: Hang on.
SAM: He is dead.
KURTZMAN: Dead! Oh no! That's terrible! We'll never get rid of the damned thing! What are we going to do?
SAM: Try next of kin.
KURTZMAN: ( a revelation ) Next of kin!
SAM: There we go. Mrs. Veronica Buttle. What's the number on the cheque?
KURTZMAN: ( reading it )
SAM: Into memory. Now . Central Banking . Buttle, Veronica . Deposit
KURTZMAN: ( fervently ) Please don't come back! Please don't come back!
SAM: Problem. She doesn't have a bank Well, that's it! I may as well go and hang myself! This sort of thing couldn't have happened before the stupid seventh tier reorganization! That was Simmons doing! And he and Jeffries always sit together at lunch! The bastards! Perhaps we can lose it . behind the filing cabinet . or destroy it . burn it . eat it .
KURTZMAN: ( hysterically ) Well, that's it! I may as well go and hang myself! This sort of thing couldn't have happened before the stupid seventh tier reorganization! That was Simmons doing! And he and Jeffries always sit together at lunch! The bastards! ( he thumps his hand hard on the desk top ) ( He picks up the offending cheque ) Perhaps we can lose it . behind the filing cabinet . or destroy it . burn it . eat it .
SAM: You'd never get away with it. Besides, you can't do that to somebody's refund. It's Christmas. There is one more option.
KURTZMAN: ( depressed. Not really believing it ) Drive out to Mrs Buttle, give her the cheque, tell her to sign her name on the back, cash it at the corner sweet
SAM: Drive out to Mrs Buttle, give her the cheque, tell her to sign her name on the back, cash it at the corner sweet
KURTZMAN: That's brilliant!
SAM: I'll do it for you. Authorise the cheque. What's the address?
KURTZMAN: Here. What do I do next?
SAM: Call the motor pool and authorise personal transport.
KURTZMAN: Of course, of course. Leave it to me. How do I authorize a cheque?
SAM: ( separating the and blue sheets ) Here we are. Pink and blue receipts. All you've got to do is sign these and the back of the cheque.
KURTZMAN: ( exhausted after all the emotion ) Oh God! I think I've broken a bone. What a pathetic thing I am.
SAM: ( taking the pen from him )
SAM: That's it.
KURTZMAN: You are good to me Sam.
SAM: ( leaving ) Don't mention it. See you later.
RADIO: ( plays music for a moment which then fades out ) . We interrupt this programme to bring you news of a terrorist bombing at the . ( Sam switches off )
SAM: ( super polite ) Excuse me. Can you tell me .
KID: Eff off.
SAM: Mrs Buttle Uh, Mrs Buttle?
SAM: Mrs Buttle .
SAM: Are you Mrs Buttle?
SAM: My name is Lowry - Sam Lowry. I'm from the Ministry of Information. I've come to give you a cheque.
SAM: ( indicting cheque ) It's a refund . I'm afraid there was a mistake.
MRS BUTTLE: ( encouraged ) Yes. Not my department . I'm only records. It seems that Mr Buttle was overcharged by Information Retrieval. I don't think they usually make mistakes . but, er . I suppose we're all human.
SAM: ( encouraged ) Yes. Not my department . I'm only records. It seems that Mr Buttle was overcharged by Information Retrieval. I don't think they usually make mistakes . but, er . I suppose we're all human.
MRS BUTTLE: My husband's dead, isn't he?
SAM: Er . I assure you Mrs Buttle, the Ministry is always very scrupulous about following up and eradicating error. If you have any complaints which you'd like to make, I'd be more than happy to send you the appropriate forms.
MRS BUTTLE: What have you done with his body?
SAM: Um .
SAM: Look, I'm very sorry, but I'm afraid I don't know anything about it . I'm really just delivering the cheque. Er . If you wouldn't mind signing these receipts I'll go and leave you in peace.
SAM: Uh .
MRS BUTTLE: He hadn't done anything . He was good . What have you done with his
JILL: Are you alright?
SAM: ( mumbles ) It's you . it's you .
JILL: Mrs Buttle, are you alright?
SAM: Wait! Stop! Come back!!
SAM: Girl . fair hair .
SAM: ( shouting ) Wait! It was nothing to do with me!
SAM: Go away.
GIRL BUTTLE: Her name is Jill.
SAM: What? .Jill? Jill who? Jill who?
GIRL BUTTLE: Jill Layton . You're a very good little girl. What are you doing here?
SAM: Jill Layton . You're a very good little girl. What are you doing here?
GIRL BUTTLE: I'm waiting for my daddy.
SAM: ( uncomprehending ) He will be pleased when he comes
KURTZMAN: Oh . Sam. I've had the transport pool onto me . You don't know anything about a personnel transporter gone missing do you?
SAM: ( preoccupied ) A "personnel" transporter? They've got it wrong. I had a personal transporter. I'll do the paperwork tomorrow -
KURTZMAN: Is it all right about Mrs Buttle's I delivered it.
SAM: I delivered it.
KURTZMAN: Can I forget it?
SAM: SAM punches a few more buttons on the computer.
KURTZMAN: What a relief! I shall probably have nightmares.
SAM: Damn! Blast!
KURTZMAN: What's the matter?
SAM: You don't happen to know how I can get around an IRQ/3 do you?
KURTZMAN: All information on 3rd Level Suspects is classified.
SAM: I know that.
KURTZMAN: All enquiries to Information Retrieval. Which is hopeless, of course. They never tell you anything. But come the time they want something from us .
SAM: ( cutting off Kurtzman ) I've go to accept that promotion to get behind this, haven't I?
KURTZMAN: ( realising what he's suggesting ) NO! You can't! You've only just turned it down! ( thinking Sam is joking )
SAM: I never signed the form.
KURTZMAN: I did it for you.
SAM: What! Shit!
KURTZMAN: It's what you wanted isn't it?
SAM: Yes . No . I don't, know.
KURTZMAN: Come on, before they turn the lights
SAM: What the - ? How did you - ?
SPOOR: Emergency procedures.
SAM: ( angrily ) I haven't got an emergency. Get out of here.
SPOOR: Sign here please.
SAM: What is it?
SPOOR: ( surprised ) It's a 27B/6, what did you think it
SPOOR: ( sourly ) Haven't you got a ballpoint?
SPOOR: Now where's he got to?
SPOOR: What have you got there?
DOWSER: ( highly excited ) Got there!
SPOOR: Mumble . mumble . mumble . Mumble . Tuttle .
DOWSER: Mumble . Tuttle .
SPOOR: Tuttle! . mumble! You've had that scab Tuttle here, haven't you?
DOWSER: .aven't you?
SAM: Who fixed your ducts?
SPOOR: Who fixed your ducts?
DOWSER: .your ducts?
SAM: I fixed it myself.
SPOOR: Oh yeh? Where'd you get this from eh out yer nostril?
DOWSER: .Yer nostril?
SPOOR: Central Services don't take kindly to
DOWSER: SPOOR and DOWSER and the other workmen gather up their tools - put them in the bag, grab everything else that belongs to them and are leaving. SPOOR grabs the form-book out of SAM's hands, rips out the last page, thrusts that page at SAM, shoves the book into his bag. The WORKMEN begin leaving the flat.
SAM: Hang on! Wait a minute! You can't just go and leave it like this!
SPOOR: ( mock innocent ) Why not? All you've got to do is blow yer nose and fix it, haven't you?
DOWSER: .ven't you?
SPOOR: ( leaving ) You're putting your talents to very odd use Mr Lowry - yes, odd use - to pit wits against Central Services -
DOWSER: .sod you, stupid twit.
SAM: Er . Thanks .
GIRL: It's reply paid.
SAM: Oh . Thank you very much, mother, but actually -
GIRL: You don't have to sing it.
SAM: Oh, right .
SAM: ( he looks at his watch ) Aren't you a bit late? - the party started half an hour ago.
GIRL: Yes, I know. It's the backlog, everybody complains. Was it all right Yes, it was . very nice . thank Do you mind if I use your bathroom?
SAM: Yes, it was . very nice . thank Do you mind if I use your bathroom?
GIRL: Do you mind if I use your bathroom?
WOMAN: Sam, I'm so glad you came. Do come
SAM: ( bewildered ) Mother? Is that you?
MOTHER: ( taking his arm - looking slightly askance at his clothes ) Of course. Isn't it wonderful? The bandages came of this afternoon. Come and join the fun. Everybody's here.
SAM: Is Mr Helpmann here?
MOTHER: Yes he is - he wants to talk to you.
SAM: I want to talk to him.
MOTHER: It seems you're the first person ever to turn down a promotion. He thinks you should see a doctor.
SAM: Actually, I've decided .
MOTHER: Oh, Louis! You know Sam.
DR JAFFE: ( as high as a kite ) Can you believe it?! Just me and my little knife! Snip - snip - slice - slice - Can you believe it?
SAM: ( repelled ) Congratulations .
DR JAFFE: And this is just the beginning!!
SAM: DR JAFFE ( explains )
DR JAFFE: Chirst yes, you've seen her with her clothes off. Faces are a doddle compared to tits and arse. No hairline.
MOTHER: ( primly ) Really, Louis.
BEEFCAKE: I've been looking everywhere for you,
DR JAFFE: Ah, dear boy . And what do you think of your mother now?
DR JAFFE: ( a trifle haughtily ) Excuse me, Dr Chapman, did you say That technique . I've tried it. A nice effect. But highly unstable. In six months she'll look like Grandma
DR CHAPMAN: That technique . I've tried it. A nice effect. But highly unstable. In six months she'll look like Grandma
DR JAFFE: ( unsuave again ) Now see here, Chapman. At least mine don't look like they've been mugged.
MRS TERRAIN: ( calls )
SAM: ( looking at her worriedly ) Whatever happened to you?
MRS TERRAIN: There was a slight complication. Dr. Chapman says it often happens with a delicate skin like mine. Nothing to worry about. He's promised me I'll have these bandages off in a .
SAM: ( trying to disengage ) Actually, there's someone I want to meet .
MRS TERRAIN: ( roguishly ) I know, I know .!
MRS TERRAIN: Here we are! I'm going to leave you two lovebirds in peace.
SAM: I . uh .
SAM: Can I get you a drink, Shirley?
SAM: Look . Shirley . your mother . and my mother . they seem to have got the idea . I mean, I'm terribly flattered, of course, but, um, the thing is, I don't want you to be under any false .
SHIRLEY: {struggling into speech shyly ) It's . it's . all right . I don't like you either .
SAM: Hello, Jack!
JACK: You remember Alison?
WIFE: Hello, Alison. You look different.
SAM: Hello, Alison. You look different.
ALISON: Well, I'm two years older.
JACK: And she's been to Dr. Jaffe!
JACK: {winking at Sam ) She doesn't like me telling anyone but she's pleased as anything really.
SAM: Er, I knew you looked different.
JACK: Remember how they used to stick out?
SAM: What? - Oh, yes - vividly. I used to wonder if they were real.
ALISON: What, my ears?
SAM: Your ears?
JACK: Dr. Jaffe has pinned her ears back.
SAM: ( covering up hopelessly ) Quite, absolutely - I always thought they were false.
JACK: ( looking past Sam ) Mr Helpmann!
HELPMANN: Hello, Jack.
JACK: You remember my wife . Alis -
HELPMANN: Of course. Barbara isn't it? How are Um .
ALISON: Um .
JACK: ( instantly. Conveying to Alison that she mustn't object ) Barbara's very well, thank you, sir. How are you?
HELPMANN: Fine, thank you. Hello, Sam. Ida said you might be here. Have you got a Would you excuse us?
JACK: Of course .. of course . Come on Alison - Barbara
HELPMANN: Thanks very much Sam.
SAM: That's all right Mr Helpmann. Glad to
HELPMANN: If I can help you .
SAM: ( broaching the subject ) Well, I .
SAM: Sorry .
HELPMANN: Your father and I were very close. Of course Jeremiah was senior to me but we were close friends . especially after the bombing and I keep his name alive at the office every day.
HELPMANN: It's as though he's there speaking to me - "'ere I am, J.H.!" The ghost in the machine.
HELPMANN: I know he would have wanted me to help you . And I promised your mother I'd take you onto the team at information Retrieval. But I gather that .
SAM: Mr Helpmann. I've changed my mind. I'd like to accept the transfer - am I too late?
HELPMANN: Too late? That's for me to say.
SAM: Well . well, I .
HELPMANN: Welcome to Information Retrieval!
SAM: ( diffidently to the porter ) My name is Sam Lowry. I have to report to Mr Warren.
PORTER: ( looking down his nose at Sam's unsleek clerk's suit and then handing him an I.D. badge ) Thirtieth floor, sir. You're Er, don't you want to search me?
SAM: Er, don't you want to search me?
PORTER: No, sir.
SAM: ( taken aback. Reaching into his pocket ) My I.D. cards.
PORTER: No need, sir
SAM: ( nonplussed ) But I could be anybody.
PORTER: No you couldn't, sir. This is Information Retrieval. the lift's arrived, sir.
EXPEDITER 1: ( waving pager ) Mr Warren, this order .
EXPEDITER 2: ( waving same ) Mr Warren .
EXPEDITER 3: ( ditto ) About this invoice . Victim's list
WARREN: ( dealing on all sides ) Yes . No . send that back . wrong department . of course . of course not . yes . no . maybe.
EXPEDITER 4: . about these requisitions .
EXPEDITER 5: Mr Warren . EX/27 has 15 suspects still outstanding.
EXPEDITER 6: . a decision, Mr Warren .
WARREN: . cancel that . okay . put half as terrorists, the rest as victims . yes . yes . no . definitely no .
SAM: ( in a hurry ) I'm Lowry, Mr Warren . Sam Lowry.
WARREN: ( putting arm around Sam ) Ah. Lowry . yes. ( still dealing with Expediters ) . no, cancel that . glad to have you aboard . yes . no . don't be ridiculous Jenkins . Yes, yes, yes . you'll like it up here . send that back . we've got a crack team of . are they kidding? . decision makers . No, in triplicate . I'm expecting big things . two copies to Finance . of you . send that to Security . uh, uh, uh. ( poring over forms ) Uh, don't let Progress see this . between you and me, Lowry, this . no, no . department . tell Records to get stuffed . is about to be upgraded and .
WARREN: Ah, here we are! What do you think?
WARREN: ( solemnly ) Your very own number. on your very own door . and behind that door ( he turns the knob and opens the door ) . your very own office. Congratulations, DZ/015, welcome to the team.
SAM: LIME startled, lets go of his desk and vents his irritation on SAM whom he mistakes for someone else.
LIME: No, you can't have any more chairs! There's only one left in here now, and I need that to sit on! Oh . er, sorry. Who are you?
SAM: Sam Lowry.
LIME: ( becoming unctuous ) Ah, yes, you're the new boy from next door, ha ha! ( he advances toward Sam with hand out to shake. Shaking hands ) My name's Lime. Harvey Lime. Welcome to Expediting.
SAM: ( he pauses - looking around ) Would you mind if I borrowed your computer console?
LIME: I'll bring it back in ten minutes.
SAM: I'll bring it back in ten minutes.
LIME: You want to take my console into your I'll tell you what .. You tell me what and I'll do it for. I'm a bit of a whizz on this thing.
SAM: ( after a moment's consideration ) I'll tell you what .. You tell me what and I'll do it for. I'm a bit of a whizz on this thing. ( indicates computer console )
LIME: ( after a moment's consideration ) I'll tell you what .. You tell me what and I'll do it for. I'm a bit of a whizz on this thing. ( indicates computer console )
SAM: ( taking print-out on Jill from his pocket ) Alright. There's someone I want to check out. A woman called Gillian ( leering ) A woman eh? I see.
LIME: ( leering ) A woman eh? I see.
SAM: ( trying to ignore this ) I know her age and distinguishing marks. But I need an address or a place of work or something
LIME: ( continuing to leer ) This is your dream girl, is it?
SAM: ( taken aback ) ( recovering ) Look, let me use the console for a few minutes.
LIME: ( trying to be jocular ) You must be joking - ( entirely unconvincing ) When there's a woman involved - there's no stopping me. Now, let me have that sheet.
LIME: Sod it, it's broken!
SAM: You haven't switched it on.
LIME: Oh - yes. Look you're putting me off, standing there! Go back to your office and I'll give you a knock when I've finished.
LIME: Go on. I'm not going to elope with
LIME: Computers are my forte.
SAM: ( reading ) Gillian Layton, age twenty three, eyes, blue, hair, black, weight, one hundred and twenty-one pounds, distinguishing marks, blemish on right shoulder, scar on left elbow
LIME: It's a start isn't it.
SAM: ( disbelieving ) But I already knew this!
LIME: Best to take it slowly where some women are concerned.
LIME: Hey - that's my desk!
SAM: ( working quickly ) Gillian Layton - Suspect S/5173. Truck driver! All enquiries, reference officer 412/L - Room 5001. ( switching off the machine and getting up ) That's what I wanted to know. Thank you very much.
WARREN: Ah, Lowry, glad I caught you . No, send it back for . Are you settling down? . I want this order rescinded . There's a query on a personnel transporter you took out from the pool . Tell them no, tell them yes, . or was it a personnel carrier you took out from transportation . Send that up to Security . Some kind of eight-wheel- half-track, was it? . Tell him I want to see him . Send round the paperwork, Lowry . Arrange a conference on that one . Anyway, tidy it up, Lowry, there's a good chap - get a new suit. Did you want the lift?
SAM: What's that?
CHARLADY: Beg your pardon?
TYPIST: It won't be long now.
ON TYPEWRITER: AHHHH, Oh God . No, don't . UHH, please . I . STOP!! I can't stand
TYPIST: ( quietly, still typing ) Can I help you?
EARPHONE: Oooooooh . aaaaaahhh . please . arrrrrghhhh no . please . Oh God, No . No, stop, I don't know .
SAM: I'm looking for Officer 412/L.
TYPIST: I'm sure he won't be long now.
TYPIST: You can go in now.
SAM: Excuse me. Are you officer 412/L?
SAM: ( a bit louder ) Er, excuse me!
SAM: ( louder ) Excuse me.
SAM: ( surprised ) ( recovering slightly ) SAM! What a surprise!
JACK: ( recovering slightly ) SAM! What a surprise!
SAM: ( even more surprised ) Are you officer 412/L?
JACK: ( shaking Sam's hand ) Sorry about that . Mr Helpmann told me you were coming aboard - Thanks. Are you officer 412/L?
SAM: Thanks. Are you officer 412/L?
JACK: For my sins. Are you settling in Yes, thanks.
SAM: Yes, thanks.
JACK: Terrific. I'm really glad you dropped by. Unfortunately, I don't have any time right now I've got a queue of customers to deal with - er, why don't we have a drink tonight?
SAM: ( diffidently ) Ah .
JACK: I don't want to take up your time now, but I was hoping you could give me some information on somebody. It's a security level three matter and Information Retrieval records says to refer to you.
SAM: I don't want to take up your time now, but I was hoping you could give me some information on somebody. It's a security level three matter and Information Retrieval records says to refer to you.
JACK: OK. Come back this afternoon, about four o'clock. If you give me the number of the case, I'll have the dossier here waiting. My tailor,. well worth the I've got numbers all over these - I'm not sure which is the one you want.
SAM: ( taking print-out sheets from his pocket ) I've got numbers all over these - I'm not sure which is the one you want.
JACK: ( looking at the print-out picture of Jill over Sam's shoulder ) Layton! Oh shit!
SAM: What is it?
JACK: You clever bastard! I might have guessed. You only moved in today and you're already hot on the bloody
SAM: Am I?
JACK: Please, Sam, we're going to have to be open to each other on this one. If you make a reputation with this case, it'll be at my expense.
SAM: How do you mean?
JACK: How much do you know?
SAM: Not much.
JACK: Enough though, eh?
SAM: ( getting sucked into this exchange ) Not really, no.
JACK: OK. OK. Let's not fence around . This is the situation. Some idiot somewhere in the building, some insect, confused two of our clients, B58/732 and T47/215.
SAM: B58/732, that's A. Buttle isn't it?
JACK: Christ! You do know it all!
SAM: No, no, I don't. I'm just beginning Honestly. Sorry, carry on.
JACK: Well, your A. Buttle has been confused with T47/215, an A. Tuttle. I mean, it's a joke! Somebody should be shot for that. So B58/732 was pulled in by mistake.
SAM: You got the wrong man.
JACK: ( a little heated ) I did not get the wrong man. I got the right man. The wrong man was delivered to me as the right man! I accepted him, on trust, as the right man. Was I wrong? Anyway, to add to the confusion, he died on us. Which, had he been the right man, he wouldn't have done.
SAM: You killed him?
JACK: ( annoyed ) Sam, there are very rigid parameters laid down to avoid that event but Buttle's heart condition did not appear on Tuttle's file. Don't think I'm dismissing this business, Sam. I've lost a week's sleep over it I'm sure you have
SAM: I'm sure you have
JACK: There are some real bastards in this department who don't mind breaking a few eggs to make an omelette, but thank God there are the new boys like me who want to maintain decent civilized standards of terrorist eradication. We've got the upper hand for the moment, but they're waiting for us to slip up, and a little slip- up like this is just the chance they're looking for.
SAM: So how .?
JACK: What I've got to do now is pick up Tuttle, interrogate him at the same voltage as Buttle, to the same meter reading to the last penny, and juggle the books in electrical banking.
SAM: What has Tuttle done?
JACK: We suspect him of freelance He's a freelance subversive?
SAM: ( dumbly ) He's a freelance subversive?
JACK: He's a compulsive heating engineer. A maverick ex-Central Service repair man with a grudge against society. Now, fortunately, we're nearly out of the wood, I think. At least we will be when I get this Layton woman under
SAM: ( agitated ) What's she done?
JACK: You didn't know as much about this business as you pretended to, did Er . no.
SAM: Er . no.
JACK: Very smart.
SAM: Er . but I would've found out Yes. I'm impressed.
JACK: Yes. I'm impressed.
SAM: ( playing the game ) Tell me about Layton.
JACK: She witnessed the Tuttle arrest - the Buttle arrest - and since then she's been making wild allegations, obviously trying to exploit the situation - she's working for somebody, and she's not working for A terrorist?
SAM: A terrorist?
SAM: Ah . thanks.
SAM: ( hesitantly ) But surely, I mean, perhaps she just happened to live above the Buttles, and .
JACK: ( picking up photograph of wife and kids from his desk ) Look after that suit, eh. Barbara chose it for me.
SAM: Right. Er, you're not going to keep calling her Barbara, are you?
JACK: Barbara's a perfectly good name, isn't it?
SAM: ( preferring to let his drop ) Look, about the Layton woman - maybe she's just trying to help the Buttle Why? Hell, not for any reason .
JACK: Why? Hell, not for any reason .
SAM: Why? Hell, not for any reason .
JACK: {baffled ) I don't follow you.
SAM: Out of kindness.
JACK: ( utterly baffled ) Kindness? What's the purpose behind this line of enquiry?
SAM: ( deciding to abandon this line of country ) So what are you going to do about Get her out of circulation - I've put her on the detention list.
JACK: Get her out of circulation - I've put her on the detention list.
SAM: ( thinking fast ) You mean you're going to invite her in so that she can spill the beans inside the department?
JACK: ( taken aback ) Well, I . Good point. What do you Let me try to get to her. I'll deactivate her.
SAM: Let me try to get to her. I'll deactivate her.
JACK: What does that mean? I don't want to be involved in anything unsavoury.
SAM: Trust me. You do trust me, don't you?
JACK: Of course. We went to school together. You're my oldest friend.
SAM: And you're mine.
JACK: You're the only person I can trust.
SAM: Then we'd better keep this business just between the two of us.
JACK: Right! Just between as and the Security Forces.
SAM: They weren't at school with us.
JACK: But, I've already put her on the search and detain list.
SAM: Take her off the list.
JACK: There's no procedure for that until she's been arrested.
SAM: Say it was a mistake.
JACK: We don't make mistakes.
SAM: Well, I'd better get out there and try to get to her before security does. Let me borrow her dossier for a Er . alright. For Christ's sake don't lose it. Here, you'd better sign for it.
JACK: Er . alright. For Christ's sake don't lose it. Here, you'd better sign for it.
SAM: Thanks, Jack. I'll be in touch.
JACK: Do you know what you're doing.
SAM: ( about to say no, then pauses ) Trust me.
JACK: ( admiring Sam's new look ) Sam . we're proud to have you at Information Retrieval. Merry Xmas. ( he hands Sam another executive package )
JILL: But you've stamped this form before! Why won't you stamp it now?
PORTER: You've just said yourself, Miss, we've already stamped it. Why should we stamp it twice?
VOICE: Hey, you - get out of there.
GUARD: What do you think you're doing . that's the Deputy Minister's lift.
SAM: Sorry, I'm in a hurry.
GUARD: Hold on, sonny . let's see your
SAM: Shit . it's here somewhere. My name's Lowry, Sam Lowry - Expediting . can't this wait?
GUARD: No, sir . I'm going to have to file a report on this. Now . what date is it
SAM: ( frantic ) Sorry, it'll have to wait.
GUARD: Stop!! Come back!
JILL: ( sweetly ) You're a stupid, fat arsed, obstructive, fascist moron aren't If you say so.
PORTER: If you say so.
JILL: You think these are tits don't you?
PORTER: I bet you'd like to touch them?
JILL: I bet you'd like to touch them?
PORTER: Well don't. You're looking at twenty pounds of high explosive! And if you don't stamp this form I'm going to blow the place up!
JILL: Well don't. You're looking at twenty pounds of high explosive! And if you don't stamp this form I'm going to blow the place up!
GUARD: ( shouting )
DROP IT!!: JILL has only the form in her hand - which she dutifully drops. She is terrified by the suddenness and size of the response to her hitting the desk. The GUARDS close in.
SAM: STOP! Let her go!
SAM: Well done . uh . excellent work . quick thinking. I'll take charge of her now .
SAM: ( grabbing Jill ) Come with me, please.
JILL: Who are you? Let go!
SAM: Don't look back! Act naturally!
JILL: How can I act naturally, when you've trying to break my arm?
SAM: ( wincing ) Ow! That hurt!
JILL: VOICE FROM BEHIND STOP! Come back here!
SAM: Oh, God . no!
OLD LADY: ( screaming ) Can't you read english? You illiterate foreign pig! You come here from your own filthy country and think you can mess our streets up! You should be fried alive, you dirty verminous . etc. etc.
OTHER GUARD: Hey, you shouldn't be reading that it's classified.
SAM: ( climbing in ) Well done, that's it . Let's go! Vrmmm. Vrmmm.
SAM: ( frantic ) What are you doing? For Christ's sake! Get moving!
JILL: Who are you?
SAM: ( hurriedly ) Sam Lowry. Hello. This sounds insane, I know, but I've been dreaming about you. Even before I saw you you were in my dreams. Weird isn't it. I mean . I don't know what it means . but it might mean something . mightn't it? I hope so. Anyway you're in danger and I think we should get out of here, now, quick! Come on!
SAM: ( desperate ) Bloody hell! Do as I say!
JILL: ( hard, icy cool ) ( beginning to lose his bottle )
SAM: ( beginning to lose his bottle )
SAM: ( beside himself with panic ) Alright! Alright! Alright! I'm Information Retrieval Officer - ( he checks the number somewhere. On the badge? ) DZ/015, and I'm arresting you for - your own good! Now start up and get moving before I hand you back to ( indicating M.I. building )
JILL: Us. Them. I don't know . just get
SAM: Us. Them. I don't know . just get
JILL: ( indicting the papers that Sam has dropped ) Don't litter my cab!
SAM: ( picking them up ) Oh, sorry.
SAM: . This is amazing . for me . being here with you. I mean, in my dreams you .
JILL: I don't want to hear about your fucking dreams!
SAM: Oh. But . Look, I'm sorry I shouted at you.
JILL: ( mainly to herself ) Why are they all pigs at Information I don't know. ( realizing that this includes him ) Hey, that's not a very nice thing to
SAM: I don't know. Hey, that's not a very nice thing to
SAM: ( waving the smoke away ) You know, smoking's bad for you.
JILL: It's my fucking life.
SAM: ( winding down the window ) Yes, of course. Sorry.
JILL: ( lighting up another cigarette ) I know you. I saw you through the floor, didn't I?
SAM: Yes. Ceiling. Why did you run away?
JILL: I didn't run away. I left the flat.
SAM: I didn't like it.
JILL: I didn't like it.
SAM: Why not?
JILL: It had a hole in the floor. Where are we going?
JILL: Where are you taking me?
SAM: Where are you taking me?
JILL: Where are you taking me?
SAM: Ah . Er . It looks as if you're taking me.
JILL: It does doesn't it?
SAM: ( slightly worried ) Where are you taking me?
JILL: Don't act guilty. Act like me. I'm just getting on with my job. Or, are you just getting on with yours?
SAM: What's going on here?
JILL: What does it look like . I'm collecting empties.
SAM: OK. What's in the parcel?
JILL: What parcel?
SAM: It's heavy.
JILL: A heavy Christmas present.
JILL: Open it if you don't trust me.
SAM: I'd rather trust you.
JILL: What are you doing in Information Looking for you.
SAM: Looking for you.
JILL: No, really.
SAM: I mean, it doesn't suit you.
JILL: I mean, it doesn't suit you.
SAM: ( looking at his jacket ) Suit me?
JILL: Don't you know the sort of thing that Information Retrieval does?
SAM: What do you mean? Would you rather have terrorists?
JILL: We've got both.
SAM: Things would be worse without Information Retrieval.
JILL: They couldn't be worse for the
JILL: Why don't you say, no system is Well, no system is.
SAM: Well, no system is.
JILL: Say, all wars have innocent victims.
SAM: Well, all wars do -
JILL: Who is this war against, Sam?
SAM: Well, terrorists of course.
JILL: How many terrorists have you met? Actual terrorists?
SAM: Actual. terrorists? Well . it's only my first day.
JILL: ( as they pass a clock in "C"s ) Look at that - right on time.
SAM: What? I thought you were free to come and go as you please.
JILL: Well, almost . unfortunately I do have to punch in by 5.00 every day.
SAM: ( slightly surprised ) Every day?
SAM: Turn around!
JILL: They'll be there waiting.
SAM: They'll be there waiting.
JILL: Who will?
SAM: You're joking.
JILL: You're joking.
SAM: No. Please. They're going to arrest I thought you arrested me.
JILL: I thought you arrested me.
SAM: Yes . but, this is real. Now, stop!
JILL: ( pushing his hand away ) Cut it out, Sam.
SAM: ( grabbing at the steering wheel ) Will you please turn back.
JILL: ( shoving him back ) Get away!
SAM: ( lunging for the steering wheel ) ( unable to control him ) Stop it . damn you!
JILL: ( unable to control him ) Stop it . damn you!
JILL: You're mad! You're out of your mind!
SAM: I was right! Step on it!
JILL: Let go! We've got to stop!
SAM: Now you're the one that's out of your Sam . we can't outrace them. You'll kill us!
JILL: Sam . we can't outrace them. You'll kill us!
JILL: Don't touch those!
JILL: Come on, let's go! Let's get out of Oh God! What have we done?
SAM: Oh God! What have we done?
JILL: We? Don't blame me!
SAM: It wasn't supposed to happen like Shit! The house is on fire!
JILL: ( looking behind ) Shit! The house is on fire!
SAM: "And your children all gone."
JILL: "Lady bird, lady bird, fly away home, your house is on fire and your children all gone" . Do you think anyone's hurt?
SAM: "Lady bird, lady bird, fly away home, your house is on fire and your children all gone" . Do you think anyone's hurt?
JILL: ( tapping him on the forehead ) Come out, I know you're in there
SAM: This is a hell of a time to buy a Are you still following me?
JILL: Are you still following me?
SAM: Please, Jill . I love you.
JILL: Go away.
SAM: There are plenty of other safe places. Why don't we go back to my Leave me alone!
JILL: Leave me alone!
SAM: You've got to trust me. It sounds silly but I know we were meant to You mean you were meant to hijack my truck, make me crash it, and have every security man in town looking for me?
JILL: You mean you were meant to hijack my truck, make me crash it, and have every security man in town looking for me?
SAM: I vas just trying to help. I decided to trust you. Maybe I was wrong. Whose side are you on really? Who are your friends? Who was the man who gave you the parcel? What's in it? It's the only thing you saved from the lorry .. It must he something very special.
JILL: I saved you from the lorry and you're not very special.
SAM: ..... It's a bomb isn't it?
JILL: ( exasperated ) Oh . Jesus!
SAM: I'm going to open it!
JILL: ( grabbing parcel and trying to take it from him ) No you're not!
VOICE: SAM turns to see MRS TERRAIN and SHIRLEY a short distance away. MRS TERRAIN is heavily bandaged and sitting in a wheelchair which SHIRLEY is pushing.
SAM!!: SAM turns to see MRS TERRAIN and SHIRLEY a short distance away. MRS TERRAIN is heavily bandaged and sitting in a wheelchair which SHIRLEY is pushing.
MRS TERRAIN: It's me and Shirley!
SAM: Ah . hello, Mrs Terrain. SAM lets go of the parcel and pushes JILL away. She moves off.
SAM: ( after Jill for Mrs Terrain's benefit ) I think that'll hold it. ( to Shirley ) Hello Shirley. Just helping someone tie up a Christmas present. How are My complication had a complication, but Dr Chapman says I'll soon be up and bouncing about like a young gazelle. Are you buying a Christmas present for your mother?
MRS TERRAIN: My complication had a complication, but Dr Chapman says I'll soon be up and bouncing about like a young gazelle. Are you buying a Christmas present for your mother?
SAM: ( Trying to keep an eye on Jill who is disappearing from sight ) Er, yes .
MRS TERRAIN: Shirley and I come here regularly. I love romantic lingerie.
MRS TERRAIN: ( coyly ) Picture me in these.
SAM: ( frantic )
JILL: ( anxiety giving way to anger ) You don't deserve to be! You should be dead, or maimed like them .. How could you .? ( indicating the wounded ) What a bloody stupid thing . I should. have made you open it in the
SAM: ( anxiety giving way to anger ) You don't deserve to be! You should be dead, or maimed like them .. How could you .? ( indicating the wounded ) What a bloody stupid thing . I should. have made you open it in the
JILL: There's your bomb! Our annual bribes for official ass-holes like you!
JILL: ( to Sam ) Come on, make yourself useful, there are people hurt!
JILL: Hey stop . she's hurt!
SAM: DON'T TOUCH HER!!
JILL: SAM .. don't!!
SAM: ( feebly ) Where is she? Is she here?
GUARD A: ( scratching his head ) These helmets don't half make your scalp itch.
GUARD B: Ooh, don't mention it. And they make you sweat. Half the time I can't see where I'm going - there's a great Niagara of perspiration coming down.
GUARD A: I'm lucky, I've got thick eyebrows. That keeps it up and channels it out to my ears.
GUARD B: Who's he?
GUARD A: Someone from Information Retrieval they're always hanging about in
SAM: Jill! Jill! Are you there?!
GUARD A: Excuse me, sir - that's government Is here a girl here? Tall, fair hair, blue eyes?
SAM: Is here a girl here? Tall, fair hair, blue eyes?
GUARD A: Dunno sir. They check all that at the
GUARD 3: ( pulling Sam back ) We can't allow you to do that sir, it's more than our job's worth.
SAM: ( shaking Guard off ) I've got to find her! Jill! Jill!
GUARD A: You can always fill in an application form, if you're a relative, sir. Please stop, sir.
SAM: Jill! Jill!
GUARD A: Sorry about that sir. Regulations. We'll have you safely back in your office in no time.
WARREN: This is a black eye for the department, Lowry! . And I don't care how you behaved when you were at Records! Information Retrieval is an executive branch! We're proud of our reputation and we protect it!
SAM: Mr Warren . I have to find out about .
WARREN: Shut up! I don't know what's going on here, Lowry, but don't think you can intimidate us with your friends and relatives in high places! Now shape Lime, I need to use your computer
SAM: ( grabbing Lime as he starts to slip away ) Lime, I need to use your computer
LIME: Sorry, a bit busy at the moment. You seem to have quite a lot to do
SAM: SAM storms back into his office. Reaching a peak of frustration, he stuffs all his paperwork into the pneumatic tube and sends it off into oblivion. Within seconds it returns. SAM sends it off a second time. It doesn't return a second time, periodically something passes through the tubes causing them to move. SAM's pneumatic tubes continue to pulsate, pressure building up. At this point SAM's desk begins, as before, to creep through the wall. He grabs it violently. He pulls it. There is a scream from the other side of the wall. SAM smiles. Th pneumatic tubes give a final convulsion and then there appears to be a muffled explosion outside SAM's office door. It shakes the whole building. SAM goes to his door and opens it.
RETRIEVAL CORRIDORS: It is the end of the working day. JACK is leaving for home. He is putting on his executive-styled bullet-proof vest and packing his "Secret Connection" briefcase. As the scene progresses SAM and JACK proceed out of the door and down he corridor, passing other I.R. OFFICIALS. SAM is dishevelled and causing acute sartorial embarrassment to JACK to is trying to distance himself from him.
SAM: Come off it, Jack! Of course you can check to see if she's been arrested.
JACK: I'm sorry, Sam, I'm afraid this whole case has become much more complicated since last we talked.
SAM: ( exasperated ) She's innocent, Jack - she's done nothing wrong.
JACK: Tell that to the wives of the Security men she blew up this afternoon. Listen, we've also had a report just in from Central Services that Tuttle has wrecked an entire flat and sabotaged adjacent Central Services systems - as a matter of fact, in your block. I'd keep my eyes open if I were you, Sam. Bye.
SAM: ( catching up with Jack ) You don't really think Tuttle and the girl are in league?
JACK: I do. Goodbye.
SAM: It could all be coincidental.
JACK: There are no coincidences, Sam. Everything's connected, all along the line. Cause and effect. That's the beauty of it. Our job is to trace the connections and reveal them. This whole Buttle/Tuttle confusion was obviously planned from the inside. Bye bye.
SAM: Jack, she's innocent!
JACK: Sam - we've always been close, haven't we?
SAM: ( eagerly ) Yes we have, Jack!
JACK: Well, could you stay away from me until this thing blows over.
BUILDING: SAM is leaving the Ministry of Information Retrieval. The lights in the foyer are blazing behind him, the street lamps are lit. He is exhausted and depressed and anxious about the safety and whereabouts of Jill. He begins to retrace their first journey together, down the Ministry front steps and around the corner to where Jill's truck was parked.
JILL: You're late.
SAM: ( stunned ) Jill! What are you do . I mean . how did you . Are you alright?
JILL: What happened to you after .
SAM: What happened to you after .
JILL: Your face . are you hurt?
SAM: No. No. I'm fine. I was worried sick about you . I thought .
JILL: ( through kiss ) They're gone.
SAM: ( through kiss ) Are you sure?
JILL: ( through kiss )
SAM: ( urgently ) C'mon, we've got to get you off the
SAM: For God's sake, what's happened?
SPOOR: Thermostat's gone. And then some.
DOWSER: . And then some.
SAM: What have you done to my flat?
SPOOR: Sign here, please.
DOWSER: . ere please.
SAM: What is it?
SPOOR: It's a 27B/6 of course.
DOWSER: .B/6 of course.
JILL: ( to Dowser ) Do you repeat everying?
DOWSER: ( nods ) . Everything.
SPOOR: ( indicating the mess ) This is what you get when you have cowboys round yer ducts.
DOWSER: . yer ducts.
SPOOR: I think you've got your T41 crystal inductor wired up to a reverse bobbin- threaded-solenoid-control. It's either that or a new washer.
DOWSER: . new washer.
SPOOR: Sign the form so we can get to it.
DOWSER: . get to it.
JILL: Don't you like parties?
SAM: C'mon. We've got to get out of here.
JILL: ( seeing cigarette light )
TOO LATE!: They ere about to run when TUTTLE steps out of the
TUTTLE: I'll fix the damage when they've gone. I'll be ready for you tomorrow.
SAM: My mother said it would be all right.
MATTHEWS: She didn't say anything about it to Well, she's my mother, not yours.
SAM: Well, she's my mother, not yours.
MATTHEWS: I won't be held responsible.
SAM: How long will she he away?
MATTHEWS: ( darkly ) There are some who go to Dr. Jaffe's clinic who never come back at all.
MATTHEWS: ( to Jill ) You're not a professional, are you?
JILL: No, amateur.
SAM: ( firmly ) Thank you, Matthews.
SAM: Make yourself at home. Don't answer the phone or open he door to anyone. I won't be long.
JILL: Where are you going?
SAM: I'm going to pull some strings. It's our only hope.
JILL: Don't do anything silly.
SAM: Thanks for the vote of confidence.
JILL: Take care.
SAM: Excuse me, Dawson, can you put me through to Mr Helpmann's office?
PORTER: I'm afraid I can't, sir. You have to go through the proper channels.
SAM: And you can't tell me what the proper channels are, because that's classified information?
PORTER: I'm glad to see the Ministry's continuing its tradition of recruiting the brightest and best, Thank you, Dawson.
SAM: Thank you, Dawson.
CHOIR MASTER: ( stopping them ) No, no, no, Arthur, you're going flat on that G. It's your breathing. Take a breath on the end. of the previous line, after Noel. Right, one, two, Of course, Jeremiah was senior to me, but we were close friends, and I keep his name alive at the office every day. It's as though he's there speaking to me. "'ere I am, J.H."
SAM: Mr Helpmann? Are you there? Hello?
SAM: ( cautiously )
JILL: What do you think? . is it me?
SAM: ( still stunned ) You don't exist any more. I've killed you. Jill Layton is dead.
JILL: Care for a bit of necrophilia?
JILL: Merry Xmas.
SAM: Everything is going to be all right.
SAM: ( shouts ) She's dead. Check the list!
GUARDS: ( as they struggle with him ) You Turncoat Bastard! JUDAS!!
TRAITOR!!: A canvas bag is plunged over his head. All goes black.
SAM: ( muffled )
JILL!!!: A shot rings out. JILL screams. It echoes through the 130 INT. PROCESSING AREA 130 In absolute inky darkness, SAM and the CAMERA move through space and time marked only by voices and sounds encountered on the way. This sound-sequence fades in and out a few times, indicating that the journey is longer than the real-time period of the blacked-out sequence. We Footsteps of SAM and GUARDS.
FEMALE VOICE: a wonderful gift, I changed it at the chemist for some antibiotics and bathroom scales and there's enough left on the voucher for a tonsilectomy if I want to treat myself .
GUARD'S VOICE: Christmas Parcel for you, sir . sign here please .
OFFICIAL A: 93/HKS/608, you are charged with the Passing confidential documents to unauthorized personnel - viz IR dossier/Gillian Layton. Destroying Government property - viz an indeterminate number of personnel carriers. Taking possession under false pretences of said personnel carriers. Forging the signature of the Head of Records, Third Department. Attempting to misdirect Ministry funds, in the form of a cheque to A. Buttle, through unauthorized channels. Tampering with Central Services supply ducts. Employing unqualified suspected persons for this purpose. Attempting to conceal a fugitive from justice. Obstructing the forces of law and order in the exercise of their duty. Giving aid and comfort to the enemies of society. Bringing into disrepute the good name of the Government, and the standing within the community of the Department of Information Retrieval. Attempting to disrupt the Ministry of Information Retrieval's internal communicating systems. Wasting Ministry time and paper.
OFFICIAL B: We would advise you that a plea of guilty will save you and the tax payer money, and will always be looked upon more favourably than a plea of not guilty. All you are requested to do at this stage is to sign this form.
SAM: Where's Jill?
OFFICIAL A: Not interested?
SAM: What have you done with Jill?
OFFICIAL A: Right. Next!
SAM: ( more hysterical ) Where's Jill? What's happened to 93/HKS/608, you've got quite a list of misdemeanours here, haven't you? All this is going to take time and money, and I'm afraid, according to your bank statement and credit rating here, you're likely to be in deep financial trouble by the end of it. Now, either you plead guilty to say, seven or eight of these charges, which'll bring the costs down to within your reach, or you can borrow a sum to be negotiated, from us, at very competitive rates. We can offer you something at say, eleven and a half per cent, over thirty years. But you will have to buy insurance to qualify for his scheme.
OFFICIAL C: 93/HKS/608, you've got quite a list of misdemeanours here, haven't you? All this is going to take time and money, and I'm afraid, according to your bank statement and credit rating here, you're likely to be in deep financial trouble by the end of it. Now, either you plead guilty to say, seven or eight of these charges, which'll bring the costs down to within your reach, or you can borrow a sum to be negotiated, from us, at very competitive rates. We can offer you something at say, eleven and a half per cent, over thirty years. But you will have to buy insurance to qualify for his scheme.
OFFICIAL D: All you have to do is to agree to sign the appropriate boxes on these forms. Yes or no?
SAM: I'm not guilty! Not guilty you stupid
OFFICIAL E: ( examining forms ) Now, since you've elected to plead not guilty on all these charges, you'd be well advised to take some sort of insurance cover. Preferably comprehensive, or if you'd prefer, something more specific - say, against electrical charges over f70.00. And for food and accommodation costs of say, £800.00. Detention can be a very expensive Now, before we bore you with the small print perhaps you'd like to tell us whether you'd like to sign this insurance acceptance form or not. Think carefully before you decide. Thinking ahead in financial matters is always the wise course.
OFFICIAL F: Now, before we bore you with the small print perhaps you'd like to tell us whether you'd like to sign this insurance acceptance form or not. Think carefully before you decide. Thinking ahead in financial matters is always the wise course.
OFFICIAL: We're here to save you and the tax payer money.
OFFICIAL: Would you like to pay the premium for a single room with a shower and a soft bed?
OFFICIAL: For a small charge we can keep visits from friends and relatives down to to a minimum.
OFFICIAL: Plead guilty, it's easier, quicker, and cheaper for everyone.
OFFICIAL: We're doing a survey . Aimed at providing a better service.
OFFICIAL: Do you think the present system is A. efficient, B. inefficient?
OFFICIAL: As a taxpayer are you A. impressed, B. unimpressed
GIRL: But the VOICE is no longer the mysterious feminine voice of before - it is the voice of the maniacal laughter.
GENT: Sam, what are we going to do with Ha ha ha ha ha.
GIRL: Ha ha ha ha ha.
HELPMANN: Sam, what are we going to do with you? Can you hear me, Sam?
SAM: ( in a hoarse urgent whisper ) Where's Jill? What have you done to her? Where is she?!
HELPMANN: Gillian Layton?
SAM: Yes, you've got to get me out of here. I've got to find her.
HELPMANN: I understand, Sam, I know exactly how you feel. So I brought you a bottle of barley water.
SAM: ( desperately ) Help me!
HELPMANN: I assure you, Sam, I'm doing everything within my power. But the rules of the game are laid down, and we all have to play by them - even This is all a mistake! Don't you Yes, well, from the Department's point of view you're certainly a bit of an own goal, but .
SAM: This is all a mistake! Don't you Yes, well, from the Department's point of view you're certainly a bit of an own goal, but .
HELPMANN: Yes, well, from the Department's point of view you're certainly a bit of an own goal, but .
SAM: I'm not a terrorist! You must know that! I'm not guilty! Get me out of Sam, if you've been going out there and playing a straight bat, all the way down the line, you've got absolutely nothing to worry about.
HELPMANN: Sam, if you've been going out there and playing a straight bat, all the way down the line, you've got absolutely nothing to worry about.
SAM: Please, I've got to find Jill.
HELPMANN: Sam, I think I ought to tell you . I'm afraid she's upped stumps and retired to the pavilion.
SAM: ( takes a moment to work this out )
HELPMANN: Yes, it's all a bit confusing but, it seems she was killed resisting No, no . I did that.
SAM: ( relieved ) No, no . I did that.
HELPMANN: The odd thing is it appears to have happened twice . a bit of a disputed call, I'm afraid.
HELPMANN: ( starting to go ) So, there you are. All I can say is, don't fall at the last fence. The finishing post's in sight. See you in the paddock. Good luck. Keep your eye on the ball. Got to go .. Can't keep the orphans waiting.
GUARD: Don't fight it, son .. confess quickly . Before they get into the expensive procedures. If you hold out too long you could jeopardise your credit rating.
GUARD: 11/AFT/607, sir.
SAM: The I.R. OFFICER reacts to this as if he's been hit in the solar plexus, and he tries to disguise it by simulating a coughing fit. He then picks up a nasty looking implement and advances on SAM.
SAM: Jack?. Jack?
JACK: ( hysterically from behind mask ) Shut up!
SAM: Jack, I'm innocent! Help me.
JACK: This is all a mistake. Jack, please take that mask off.
SAM: This is all a mistake. Jack, please take that mask off.
JACK: You stupid bastard!
SAM: How could you do this to me?
JACK: How could you do this to me?
SAM: Help me, Jack! I'm frightened!
JACK: How do you think I feel? You shit!
SAM: Jack .
JACK: ( pulling down mask ) Shut up! This is a professional
SAM: JACK!! . You can't . No, don't!
TUTTLE: From somewhere near at hand there is a large explosion which rocks the room. TUTTLE is already unstrapping SAM.
TUTTLE: Let's go!
2ND GROUP: Quick! We've only got thirty seconds to get clear!
MATTHEWS: ( piously ) A sad loss. Your mother was with her at the end. The doctor said there was no pain.
SAM: Where is she?
SPIRO: Ah, yes, Mr Lowry. It's so good you could make it. Right this way.
SPIRO: ( stopping and looking back at Sam ) Mrs Lowry? Mrs Lowry is .
SAM: ( trying to take in scene ) what? . Oh . ( starts to follow Spiro )
SPIRO: ( coming up to back of woman ) Madam .
MOTHER: ( uncertainty in her expression )
SAM: ( staring dumbly, not knowing what to say ) Mother? . What . what's . you've got to help me .
MOTHER: ( embarrassed, unsure ) Not now . please
YOUNG GALLANT: ( belligerently ) Ida, is this fellow bothering you? ( getting up ) I'll -
SAM: ( quietly ) I don't dream anymore. ( he embraces her )
MR HELPMANN: He's got away from us, Jack.
JACK: I'm afraid you're right, Mr. Helpmann. He's gone.
THE END: Writers : Terry Gilliam Charles McKeown
