FOR EDUCATIONAL: PURPOSES ONLY FADE IN: EXTREMELY TIGHT ON ELECTRONIC GUTS of a video camera. The screwdriver blade of a Swiss Army knife ENTERS FRAME, methodically tightening a row of PULL BACK to reveal:
PURPOSES ONLY: FADE IN: EXTREMELY TIGHT ON ELECTRONIC GUTS of a video camera. The screwdriver blade of a Swiss Army knife ENTERS FRAME, methodically tightening a row of PULL BACK to reveal:
HOWARD: How about it, Jeff?
JEFF: Jeff slips the knife back in his pocket, scrambles over the loose bricks and stones to a position next to Howard.
MINICAM POV: FRAMED in the viewfinder we see the frightened woman.
JEFF: ( matter-of-fact )
HOWARD: High-rise. Top floor. Window in the middle.
JEFF: High-rise. Top floor. Window in the middle.
HOWARD: ( looking through Stay on him. Stay on him. Now go back to the woman. Now!
HOWARD: Stay tight on the sniper. Jesus look at him! He's about fourteen! Don't lose this!
JEFF: He sees her.
HOWARD: Stay on her. If she runs, widen and try to get her and sniper in the same frame. I said he sees her.
JEFF: I said he sees her.
HOWARD: I heard you. Stay on her.
JEFF: ( under his breath ) No. no.
JEFF: Sniper! Sniper! Sni
STREET: The woman looks up in Jeff's direction, confused, breaking stride We hear a burst of automatic gunfire
STREET: The woman's body jolts from the impact of the bullets. The books go flying from her hand. She spins to the pavement, her hair billowing.
JEFF: just stands there, a shattered expression. The camera hangs at his side. He stares at the dead woman as a pool of dark blood expands around her body.
NIGHT: A 747 touches down on the tarmac.
HER POV: Jeff, carrying a single bag slung over his shoulder, emerges from the terminal.
AMY: God, I missed you.
JEFF: Me too.
AMY: Let's get out of here. Where's your equipment? Don't tell me you checked it?
JEFF: ( holds up his bag ) This is it.
AMY: No camera?
AMY: No nothing?
AMY: Ah ha.
CLOSER: Amy stirs, reaching her hand out toward the other side of the bed, which is empty. She opens her eyes, surprised to find herself alone.
AMY: No reply. Something catches her attention from across the room. She rises, pulls a loose robe around herself and pads over to a closed door. She knocks softly.
AMY: Can I come in?
AMY: Couldn't sleep?
AMY: I remember when you took that. We had fun on that trip, didn't we?
AMY: You want to talk about it?
JEFF: There's nothing to talk about.
AMY: C'mon, Jeff.
JEFF: I told you. I quit. Walked out. end of story.
AMY: That's it?
AMY: Whatever happened back there wasn't your responsibility. You can't keep beating yourself up over it.
AMY: What do you think? You could have stopped that girl from getting You don't understand.
JEFF: You don't understand.
JEFF: It was different this time.
JEFF: I talked to Reynolds. He thinks I could still get the job at the San Diego station.
AMY: Oh, Jeff, you didn't.
JEFF: Think of it. Low pressure, a steady paycheck. So I shoot city council meetings how bad could it be?
AMY: Is that what you really want or are you just running away?
JEFF: Who's running? It's good money, full benefits. I'm tired of freelance. We could finally put some money in the bank.
AMY: You know I'll never stand in your way. But you've worked so hard. Are you sure you want to throw it Throw what away? Don't you get it? I don't do anything. I sit, I watch, I film I let it
JEFF: Throw what away? Don't you get it? I don't do anything. I sit, I watch, I film I let it
AMY: You're supposed to let it happen. It's your job.
JEFF: No, Amy. It's my excuse.
JEFF: That girl. it's like I was paralyzed. I wanted to do something, but I didn't. I just stood there and watched her get
JEFF: Please, babe, I need this. Say yes and we'll take as long as you want drive cross-country and make a vacation out of it. What do you say?
AMY: Jesus, Jeff.
JEFF: Sorry. I took my eyes off the Maybe it's time we took a break, you know?
AMY: ( seeing thermos Maybe it's time we took a break, you know?
JEFF: I'll pull over next chance we get.
TRUCKER: On vacation?
AMY: Sort of. We're moving, actually.
TRUCKER: Amy hesitates. She's not used to talking with strangers, but the guy seems harmless enough.
AMY: California. We thought we'd take the scenic route.
TRUCKER: Huh. In that case, you oughta try the Pass Road, 'bout thirty miles west. Real pretty, makes a loop through the hills, then hooks back up with the highway.
AMY: Thanks. I'll mention it to my
TRUCKER: Okay, then. Good luck. Enjoy the rest of your trip.
EARL: ( flatly ) Nice car.
JEFF: Earl steps around to the open passenger window, peers in. Jeff watches him, wary.
EARL: Air, C.D., leather I guess you sprung for the whole nine yards.
JEFF: I guess.
EARL: Then again, out here, what you really need's a C.B. radio.
JEFF: Is that right? 'Course, if you use a C.B., you gotta have a handle.
EARL: 'Course, if you use a C.B., you gotta have a handle.
EARL: How about Shit-for-Brains? You damn near killed us back there, boy.
JEFF: Look, I'm sorry, I didn't see you. You pulled out in front of me.
EARL: The hell I did. I saw what Looking past Earl, Jeff sees Amy come out of the mini- mart with a bag of groceries. He speaks carefully, anxious to avoid a confrontation.
JEFF: How about if we just forget it, okay? I'm sorry it happened. I don't want any trouble.
EARL: ( snorting )
EARL: Howdy, ma'am. Caught this fellow tryin' to steal your Cherokee. What was that about?
AMY: What was that about?
JEFF: Nothing. Guy in the truck. Thinks I tried to hit him. C'mon, let's go.
JEFF: C'mon, let's go.
AMY: You want me to drive?
JEFF: Later. Just get in.
AMY: Is something wrong?
JEFF: No, let's just go.
MIRROR POV: Earl coming out of the mini-mart, staring after the disappearing Jeep.
AMY: This isn't the Grand Prix, you
AMY: What's bothering you?
JEFF: I told you. Nothing. The guy was an asshole.
JEFF: What'd you get?
AMY: Junk food fiesta. Sno Balls, Yoo Hoo, Moon pies. can you believe they still make this stuff?
JEFF: You kidding. It's probably gourmet cuisine around here.
AMY: ( trying to brighten This is crazy. Look at this. Says if you win this mail-in contest, you can choose either ninety thousand dollars or ninety thousand doughnuts.
AMY: What would you do with ninety thousand doughnuts?
JEFF: I dunno. Sell 'em for thirty cents each and pay off this car.
AMY: Very funny. Alright, what about ninety thousand dollars? What would you do with that?
JEFF: I don't know. Look, Amy, I'm
JEFF: Sonofabitch!! My camera! He stole my camera!
AMY: ( startled ) The redneck at the gas station! He lifted it right under my nose! My brand new Nikon. ( pounds wheel in frustration ) Should we go back?
JEFF: The redneck at the gas station! He lifted it right under my nose! My brand new Nikon.
AMY: Should we go back?
JEFF: What's the use. He's probably halfway to Bumblefuck now, the Look, maybe if we call the cops
AMY: Look, maybe if we call the cops
JEFF: What the hell?
AMY: What'd you do?
JEFF: Nothing. I
JEFF: Hang on I can't steer!
AMY: ( deadpan ) Found your camera.
JEFF: ( CONTINUED )
AMY: Are you okay?
JEFF: I'm fine.
JEFF: ( annoyed ) I said I'm fine, okay?
AMY: Out of range?
AMY: What's going on, Jeff?
JEFF: What's it look like? I'm trying to fix the car.
AMY: Not the car.
JEFF: What's going on with you?
AMY: What's going on with you?
AMY: It's been a month since you got back. You can't keep shutting me out like this.
AMY: Jeff, I'm talking to you.
JEFF: ( flaring ) Look, I really don't want to go into this right now. I'm changing jobs, our finances are fucked, and we're stuck in the middle of nowhere. So could we maybe just fix the
JEFF: Christ, not these guys.
JEFF: ( looking down
AMY: ( looking down
JEFF: What the hell?
AMY: What's he doing?
JEFF: I don't know. Jeff watches the pickup, frowning. Then, from the opposite direction, they hear a LOW RUMBLE. They turn and stare at
DOWN HIGHWAY: the PICKUP STARTS UP again. It pulls another U-turn and drives away, melting into the desert.
AMY: breathes a sigh of relief. The driver dismounts from the cab, leaving the ENGINE IDLING. We recognize him as the Trucker in the mini- mart. He removes his cap, revealing a shock of prematurely white hair. He is well-shaven, his clothes immaculate. His name is Red.
JEFF: Yeah. Our car broke down.
RED: ( chuckling ) I figured that much. You want a hand pushing it off the road?
JEFF: Thanks, I'd appreciate it. Amy, you want to steer?
JEFF: Think you could radio a tow truck for us?
RED: I sure would if I could, mister, but my C.B. blew a fuse this morning. I'm waiting till I hit the truck stop on I-40 to get it
JEFF: How far is that?
RED: About 60 miles.
JEFF: ( disappointed )
RED: I'd offer to take a look, but it's hard to say with these new engines. Used to be, you could give 'em a kick and a holler and they'd start right up. Now it's all computers and chips.
JEFF: It's a new car.
RED: That could be the problem. You been running it pretty fast? Tell you what. If you want a ride, there's a little diner up the road. Belle's. They got a pay phone. You could call a tow truck from there.
RED: Tell you what. If you want a ride, there's a little diner up the road. Belle's. They got a pay phone. You could call a tow truck from there.
JEFF: Nice of you to offer. But we've got a lot of stuff in the car. I think we're better off waiting for a cop to come along.
RED: ( casually ) ( tipping his cap )
AMY: Are you nuts?
JEFF: We don't know this guy.
AMY: He's offering to help. It could be hours before anyone else comes along. It's 100 degrees. You really want to be stuck out here?
JEFF: Amy, I've got my equipment in the car. All our stuff. What if those guys come back and we're not Jesus. don't be stupid.
AMY: Stupid is sitting out here waiting for a cop when we already have a
AMY: Stupid was letting you talk me into leaving Boston.
AMY: Excuse me? Do you think you could drop me at that diner?
RED: ( surprised ) Sure thing. How about you, mister? I could take you both just as easy.
AMY: That's okay. My husband wants to stay with the car. I'll just get my purse.
JEFF: What do you think you're doing?
AMY: I'm going to the diner. I'm going to call a tow truck. Then I'm going to order an iced tea and wait. Good-bye, Jeff.
JEFF: ( firm ) You're not riding with that guy. End of story.
AMY: You wanted to be alone. Well. you're alone. Why don't you take the time to get your head
RED: Watch your step, ma'am.
JEFF: Oh for Christ's sake.
JEFF: Excuse me.
JEFF: I was supposed to meet my wife
JEFF: Dark hair, slender, about five- five. Wearing a pale blue Benetton shirt.
BARTENDER: A pale blue what?
JEFF: Benetton shirt.
BARTENDER: Hank! Your order's ready. I been busy. They come and go.
JEFF: It would've been within the last half hour. She might've been with a trucker?
BARTENDER: A trucker.
JEFF: Guy with a baseball cap. Driving an eighteen wheeler.
BARTENDER: Don't ring a bell.
JEFF: You sure?
BARTENDER: Hey! Man here's looking for his wife, dark hair, button-on shirt, travelin' with a guy in a baseball cap. Anybody see 'em?
FLO: Looks like she got away from ya,
JEFF: Could she have left a message with another one of your employees?
BARTENDER: Don't see how. I'm the only one who works here.
JEFF: I don't understand. Is there another Belle's Diner?
BARTENDER: ( chuckles ) No siree. Definitely not.
JEFF: ( under his breath )
JEFF: Excuse me, how far is the next About twenty miles.
BARTENDER: About twenty miles.
JEFF: Look, if my wife comes in her name is Amy tell her I was here. Tell her to stay put till I get back, not to move. Would you do that, please?
BARTENDER: ( shrugs, bored )
PETERBILT: The 18-wheeler that picked up Amy. Cruising leisurely. Jeff presses the accelerator.
JEFF: C'mon, you fat-ass. Pull over.
POV SHOT: It's Red, alright. But he's wearing a different cap. FROM this ANGLE, we can't see into the passenger side of the cab. Red peers down at Jeff, puzzled. Jeff shouts at him, Red suddenly notices something ahead in the road, BLARES his HORN. Jeff looks up, sees An RV camper approaching in the oncoming lane!
JEFF: Pull over! Pull over!
HIGHWAY: Jeff swerves onto the far shoulder as the RV whooshes past in the opposite direction, HORN BLARING.
CHEROKEE: Jeff is rattled, catching his breath. He swings back onto the road.
HIGHWAY: Jeff slips in ahead of the Peterbilt, then starts weaving and braking, forcing the truck to slow.
RED: Jesus, pal, what the hell you I was signaling you to stop. Didn't you see me?
JEFF: I was signaling you to stop. Didn't you see me?
RED: Jeff reacts. How thick can this guy be?
JEFF: Where's my wife?
RED: My wife. Where is she?
JEFF: My wife. Where is she?
RED: How should I know where your wife I checked at the diner. No one saw her there.
JEFF: I checked at the diner. No one saw her there.
RED: Mister, I don't know what you're talking about.
JEFF: You gave her a ride. You were supposed to drop her at Belle's
RED: Nope. Sorry.
JEFF: How can you not remember? It was just half an hour ago, for
RED: Mister, I never seen you before in my life.
JEFF: ( reacts ) Your radio works ( locks eyes with Red ) What the hell are you doing ?
JEFF: Amy? Amy?! You in there?
RED: Look, mister, I don't know what you want, but
JEFF: I want my fucking wife, is what I want! What have you done to her?!
JEFF: Officer, I need your help!
SHERIFF BOYD: What's your problem?
JEFF: I don't know, this guy has my Calm down, sir. Tell me what's going on.
SHERIFF BOYD: Calm down, sir. Tell me what's going on.
JEFF: I don't know what the hell's going on. Last time I saw her she was with this guy in his truck. Now he's saying he's never seen her!
RED: Officer, he's crazy I don't know what he's talking about.
JEFF: Don't lie, you son of a bitch!
SHERIFF BOYD: All right everybody just calm Sir, you want to tell me what Our car broke down. This guy stopped to help us, said he'd drive my wife to a pay phone. But she never showed up.
JEFF: Our car broke down. This guy stopped to help us, said he'd drive my wife to a pay phone. But she never showed up.
SHERIFF BOYD: ( turning to Red ) I don't know, officer. I'm driving along, suddenly this fella runs me off the road and starts hollering about his wife. I swear, I never seen the guy And you didn't give his wife a No, sir.
RED: I don't know, officer. I'm driving along, suddenly this fella runs me off the road and starts hollering about his wife. I swear, I never seen the guy And you didn't give his wife a No, sir.
SHERIFF BOYD: And you didn't give his wife a No, sir.
RED: No, sir.
JEFF: He's lying!
SHERIFF BOYD: Sir, all right with you if I search your truck?
RED: Hell yes, officer. Go right ahead. Name's Red, by the way. Red Barr. My permits are all current. You can check 'em out.
SHERIFF BOYD: That won't be necessary yet. Just stand back behind the line. Both of you.
SHERIFF BOYD: ( to both of them ) All right, let's see your license and registration.
SHERIFF BOYD: What are you hauling today, Mr. Nothing, empty load. I'm heading to Fresno for a pick up ball bearings or something.
RED: Nothing, empty load. I'm heading to Fresno for a pick up ball bearings or something.
SHERIFF BOYD: ( eyeing him ) Long way to go empty.
RED: Tell me about it. Too much competition nowadays. One horse guys like me gotta drive halfway 'cross the country just to get a payin' job.
JEFF: ( to Sheriff, Are we gonna keep looking or what?
SHERIFF BOYD: Yes, we are. Sir, I'm gonna have to see No problem. I understand.
RED: No problem. I understand.
INSIDE: The cavernous interior is mostly empty, except for a few randomly strewn cardboard boxes, too small to contain a
SHERIFF BOYD: ( re: boxes ) Those yours?
RED: Yeah. Personal stuff. Clothes and whatnot. You want to take a
SHERIFF BOYD: No. I think we're pretty much done here. You're free to go.
JEFF: ( reacts ) Whoa, whoa wait a sec. That's it? You're not going to question him anymore?
SHERIFF BOYD: Sir, I searched the truck. There's no evidence of suspicious activity, no sign of struggle. Look, I don't mean to butt in, but maybe you got my truck confused with someone else's.
RED: Look, I don't mean to butt in, but maybe you got my truck confused with someone else's.
JEFF: ( lunges ) Go to hell, you sonofabitch
SHERIFF BOYD: Hey! Hey! You want to get arrested? Now the man has a point. This is a plain-looking, John Doe truck. Maybe you did get them mixed up.
SHERIFF BOYD: The Sheriff jogs after him. Red walks to the cab, INT. PETERBILT CAB - DAY Jeff searches the cab for signs of Amy. He tosses aside a jacket, rifles papers on the floor. There is nothing.
SHERIFF BOYD: Mr. Taylor, either you come down from there or I'm going to have to arrest you.
JEFF: It was him. It was this truck.
SHERIFF BOYD: Uh-huh, I can see that. Did you get a license plate?
JEFF: SHERIFF BOYD
SHERIFF BOYD: What about the information on the door panel. You recall any of
JEFF: I wasn't paying attention.
SHERIFF BOYD: Mr. Taylor, did you by any chance have a beef with your wife today?
JEFF: What does that have to do with Well, for starters, maybe she left I don't believe this.
SHERIFF BOYD: Well, for starters, maybe she left I don't believe this.
JEFF: I don't believe this.
SHERIFF BOYD: I've seen it a hundred times. Lovers, married couples, gay guys. You put two people in a car long enough, they'll go at it. Hell, I've even seen men dump their women on the side of the road, and vice versa.
JEFF: My wife did not leave me.
RED: ( cuts in ) Officer, I'm sorry, I'd like to stay and help, but I really got to make it to Fresno.
SHERIFF BOYD: I understand. Go ahead, sir. I appreciate your cooperation.
JEFF: This is insane. You're just going to let him go?
SHERIFF BOYD: I've got his information. If we need to find him later, we'll know where to look.
RED: Much obliged. Good luck findin' your wife, mister. No hard feelings.
SHERIFF BOYD: Sir, I believe you that your wife is missing. Maybe you got confused about what truck she got into, maybe you had a fight you don't have to tell me. The point is I'm trying to help.
SHERIFF BOYD: The town of Brackett's 31 miles that way. My deputy's name is Len Carver. He's a good man. He'll help you fill out the necessary forms if you want to report your wife missing.
SHERIFF BOYD: If you want my opinion, your wife is probably around here. Lost or plenty pissed off and giving you a scare. Either way, she'll turn
SHERIFF BOYD: ( into mike ) 10-4, dispatch. Tell her I'm on my way.
JEFF: I want your name and badge number.
SHERIFF BOYD: Sheriff Arthur Boyd. 226-93. This really isn't necessary
JEFF: Don't tell me what's necessary, goddamnit. I'm noting the exact time of this conversation. 10:52
SHERIFF BOYD: ( exhaling ) Suit yourself, Mr. Taylor.
DEPUTY CARVER: Is this a recent picture?
JEFF: Two months old.
DEPUTY CARVER: She still wear her hair like that?
JEFF: ( CONTINUED )
DEPUTY CARVER: We'll certainly do our best, Mr. Taylor. There's over a hundred thousand people go missing in this country every year. Runaways, deadbeat dads, dropouts, folks hiding from the I.R.S. all vanishing without a trace.
DEPUTY CARVER: Now I'm not saying she's one of them. I sure hope not. But unless there's a ransom demand or evidence of forced abduction, believe me, the F.B.I. won't even look at your case till it's been 24 hours.
DEPUTY CARVER: Nevertheless, we'll sure keep our eyes peeled. How's that sound?
JEFF: Did she come in?
BARTENDER: ( looks up, uninterested ) Didn't see her.
JEFF: You didn't see her, or she didn't come in?
BARTENDER: Buddy, I told you the last time. I'm busy. Maybe she came in, maybe she didn't. All I know is, I didn't see her. None of my business, mister. But if I was you I'd take a look in the ladies room.
BARFLY: ( confidentially ) None of my business, mister. But if I was you I'd take a look in the ladies room.
JEFF: Silence. Jeff tries the door. It's locked. He rattles it. Another GROAN. Jeff puts his shoulder against the door, heaves inward. The door swings open, revealing
INSIDE BATHROOM: Flo, bent over the toilet, vomiting. She whirls around, a strand of spittle dangling from her lip.
FLO: Hey what the hell you doing?!
JEFF: I want to see your order slips.
BARTENDER: You write down the names. I want to see them.
JEFF: You write down the names. I want to see them.
BARTENDER: What are you, nuts? I don't have to show you jack shit.
JEFF: If my wife came in here, then her name's in that pile.
BARTENDER: You calling me a liar?
BARTENDER: Mister, I've had just about enough of you.
JEFF: Let me see the fucking slips.
BARTENDER: Now, mister, you're going to have to leave.
PHONE BOOTH: is occupied by a YOUNG MAN with an awkward oversized frame, ill-fitting clothes. Jeff raps on the glass
JEFF: Please, I need the phone I have to call the police!
SLUGGISH MAN: ( drawls ) My name's Billy. You the feller lookin' for his wife?
JEFF: How'd you know? Did you see her?
JEFF: Please, if you know something, anything, tell me.
JEFF: What? When?
BILLY: Oh man. Never shoulda opened my damn mouth. Now I'm gonna git it.
JEFF: No one's going to hurt you, Billy. Just tell me what you saw.
BILLY: She came in on a truck. A big white one.
JEFF: Then she. she got in another
BILLY: Then she. she got in another
JEFF: Another truck? With who?
BILLY: Dunno. Some men. Bad men. They say I'm a dummy, but I ain't. I see things.
JEFF: Do you know where they went?
BILLY: Uh-huh. Route seven. Up by the Where by the river?
JEFF: Where by the river?
BILLY: Dunno. They don't tell me that kind of stuff.
JEFF: Who doesn't? The bartender? The men in the truck?
BILLY: I ain't talking to you no more.
JEFF: Billy, I need you to come to the police. If you tell them what you saw, they'll be able to help me.
BILLY: Man, you're the dummy.
BILLY: Don't you git it? The police is the ones in on it!
JEFF: C'mon. work, goddammit.
JEFF: EXT. CROSSROADS - DAY The highway intersects Route 7. The Cherokee slows just enough to take the corner without tipping over. It flies past a sign: "Route 7 - North."
JEFF: ( thank God )
JEFF: Hello, Steve? It's Jeff Taylor. Listen, I don't put me on hold! I need a favor. I've gotta talk to that friend of yours at the F.B.I. No, it's about Amy, she's
JEFF: I said Amy's been
JEFF: Jeff holds the phone tight to his ear.
JEFF: Yes, I'm still here. No don't call back Steve?! Steve?!
JEFF: He punches redial, gets the "NO SERVICE" BEEPING, then glances up, sees a
CHAINLINK FENCE: covered with high-visibility markers stretched across the road. The sign: "ROAD CLOSED."
JEFF: He grinds his teeth. Beyond the padlocked gate, the highway continues as an unpaved dirt road. He deliberates, then throws the Cherokee in reverse and does a three-point turn so he's facing back in the opposite direction. He looks up, sees
EARL: ( calling out ) Out of the car! Put your hands where I can see 'em!
JEFF: swears, panicking.
EARL: I said get out, dammit! Now!
CHEROKEE: peels out in reverse, snaking wildly side to side, aiming for the chainlink fence. It BURSTS the FENCE! Poles and chain mesh go flying!
JEFF: cranks the wheel and brakes hard. The rear end of the Cherokee swings wide to the edge of the road. He throws the shift into drive and punches the throttle.
EARL: jumps in the Ram and takes off in pursuit.
JEFF: GUNS the ENGINE. The Cherokee bounces wildly on the rutted, storm-damaged road. He yanks the four-wheel- drive lever.
DIRT ROAD: The huge pickup streaks after the Cherokee, its 7.5-LITER V10 ROARING, oversized tires devouring the terrain.
JEFF: GUNS the ENGINE on the washboard road surface, the vibration nearly shaking the suspension apart while
RAM: keeps pace in the dust from its wake. Inside the cab, Earl can be seen speaking on a CB transmitter.
JEFF: throws the Cherokee into a sharp turn in the road. As the car rounds the bend, he looks up, reacting, as
IDLED BULLDOZER: blocks the road at a construction site. More unattended earthmoving equipment fills the road beyond.
JEFF: brakes wildly. To his right, a cliff goes straight up; on the left, a guardrail protects a steep ravine. He cuts the wheel left, CRASHES through the GUARDRAIL and plunges into the ravine!
CHEROKEE: bounces wildly as it hurtles down the slope, CRASHING through sagebrush and manzanita.
JEFF: clings to the wheel, tossed about violently, as suitcases and packing boxes go everywhere. The Cherokee hits a bump on the steep slope and CRASHES through the upper branches of a willow grove. As the leaves part, we see. a river.
CHEROKEE: lands on the passenger side with a SPLASH and comes to rest half-submerged in the RUSHING WATER.
EARL: jerks the Ram to a halt, leaps out and runs to the edge of the road to look down on the Cherokee in the river.
EARL: He grabs the rifle and begins making his way down the INSIDE CHEROKEE The world is sideways. Water rushes into the car. Jeff is strapped into the driver's seat by the seatbelt. The AIRBAG DEFLATES with a HISS. Jeff grimaces in pain. He looks around, blinking. The river is flowing right through the Cherokee! Luggage, styrofoam hamburger clamshells and empty Coke cans bob on the surface of the water. Jeff fumbles with the seatbelt release. The belt comes free and he drops suddenly into the water on the passenger side. He gets to his feet, reaches overhead to unlatch the driver's side door and pushes it open. He hoists himself through the door.
INSIDE CHEROKEE: The world is sideways. Water rushes into the car. Jeff is strapped into the driver's seat by the seatbelt. The AIRBAG DEFLATES with a HISS. Jeff grimaces in pain. He looks around, blinking. The river is flowing right through the Cherokee! Luggage, styrofoam hamburger clamshells and empty Coke cans bob on the surface of the water. Jeff fumbles with the seatbelt release. The belt comes free and he drops suddenly into the water on the passenger side. He gets to his feet, reaches overhead to unlatch the driver's side door and pushes it open. He hoists himself through the door.
RIVERBANK: Earl sees Jeff emerging from the half-submerged Cherokee, levels the RIFLE and FIRES!
JEFF: ducks back inside the Cherokee, freaking. The passenger side is on the river-bottom and if he tries to get out through the driver's side, he's a sitting Jeff swears and looks around, seeing a metal camera case underwater in the back seat. He grabs the case and swings it at the windshield. The first three blows bounce off harmlessly. Then the WINDSHIELD SHATTERS with a CRASH! He takes a deep breath, submerges and swims underwater through the broken windshield.
ON BANK: Earl stiffens as he sees movement in the water. Several items of debris from the car are floating on the current.
EARL: He begins moving downstream along the bank, eyeing the Jeff breaststrokes for all he's worth. Sand swirls in the swift current. He pushes away from a boulder in his He swims until his lungs are bursting, then surfaces for ON BANK Earl sees Jeff break the surface. He aims the RIFLE and FIRES! A BULLET SMACKS the WATER near Jeff's head. Then Jeff is under again.
UNDERWATER: Jeff breaststrokes for all he's worth. Sand swirls in the swift current. He pushes away from a boulder in his He swims until his lungs are bursting, then surfaces for ON BANK Earl sees Jeff break the surface. He aims the RIFLE and FIRES! A BULLET SMACKS the WATER near Jeff's head. Then Jeff is under again.
ON BANK: Earl sees Jeff break the surface. He aims the RIFLE and FIRES! A BULLET SMACKS the WATER near Jeff's head. Then Jeff is under again.
EARL: Jeff struggles to stay in control. The current is turning swifter. His shoulder glances painfully off a ON BANK Earl works his way through the brush at the river's edge. His foot lands between two rocks. He pulls it out, BEHIND ROCK Jeff surfaces and gulps in air, staying out of sight of Earl on the bank. Then he is down again.
UNDERWATER: Jeff struggles to stay in control. The current is turning swifter. His shoulder glances painfully off a ON BANK Earl works his way through the brush at the river's edge. His foot lands between two rocks. He pulls it out, BEHIND ROCK Jeff surfaces and gulps in air, staying out of sight of Earl on the bank. Then he is down again.
ON BANK: Earl works his way through the brush at the river's edge. His foot lands between two rocks. He pulls it out, BEHIND ROCK Jeff surfaces and gulps in air, staying out of sight of Earl on the bank. Then he is down again.
BEHIND ROCK: Jeff surfaces and gulps in air, staying out of sight of Earl on the bank. Then he is down again.
ON BANK: Earl works his way along the shore. Up ahead, the river runs over rapids before passing around a bend. Earl hears an ENGINE and turns. A huge moving van has arrived on the dirt road overlooking the ravine. He shouts to the DRIVER, pointing downriver.
EARL: He's getting away!
IN RAPIDS: Jeff is carried over the rocks by the fast-moving current. He slams into a boulder, letting out a cry and swallowing a mouthful of water. A downed tree hangs over the river. Jeff grabs desperately and takes hold of a branch. He's got it! Hanging on to the branch, he notices a familiar object floating past in the water: the "90,000 Donuts" pack. Jeff tries to haul himself from the river. The BRANCH bends under his weight. Then it comes free with a CRACK! Jeff is carried downstream on the rushing water.
ON BANK: Earl works his way along the shore. The unseen Driver of the van shouts to him from upriver.
EARL: He's in the water! I just saw
BELOW RAPIDS: The river has turned slow again. Jeff fights to his feet in the shallows and staggers to the bank. He drops to his knees, retching. Clutching his ribs, he raises his head and looks upriver. For the moment, there is no sign of Earl. But he could appear anytime. Jeff gets to his feet, wincing. He looks up at the rocky canyon wall bordering the river. It's steep but He begins climbing.
AL: . can't believe you let him get You try chasing. through this Fuck. this is what happens when you get one without the other.
EARL: You try chasing. through this Fuck. this is what happens when you get one without the other.
AL: Fuck. this is what happens when you get one without the other.
EARL: He coming around?
BILLY: Should be. I clocked him pretty
BILLY: Rise and shine, dad.
BILLY: C'mon, shake a leg.
JEFF: ( weak ) Where is she?
BILLY: Give us some answers and you might find out. According to her, you've got a pretty good pile of ready cash sitting in the bank. Is that true?
JEFF: There's some. yeah.
BILLY: Uh-huh. well, 'some' doesn't cut it. Your wife gave us a dollar figure. I want the same exact from you.
JEFF: ( coming around; I don't there's different accounts. the balance Fluctuates, my ass. If a hotshot like you ain't tracking his bottom line, it'd be the first time in ( turning ) What do you think, Earl?
BILLY: Fluctuates, my ass. If a hotshot like you ain't tracking his bottom line, it'd be the first time in What do you think, Earl?
EARL: We been fucked with, is what I think. Little slut lied to us. Put 'em on the spot, they'll say anything to stay alive.
BILLY: Yeah, I suppose. Too bad. Guess you're not the donut magnate after all. Waste of time. Plug him.
JEFF: ( blurting out ) Ninety thousand. Say again.
BILLY: Say again.
JEFF: ( emphatic ) Ninety thousand dollars.
EARL: Get out. Don't try anything
RED: You're a tough man to get a hold of, Jeffrey.
JEFF: ( barely able to What do you want?
RED: It's not me we're talking about. Question is what you want.
RED: See, I've got something you might want to buy. Can't show you the merchandise right now, but I can describe it for you. About five- five, hundred and fifteen pounds. I'd say three, maybe four of that is tits. Black curly hair upstairs and down. Interested?
JEFF: You sonofabitch He advances toward Red. Billy and Earl grab him from behind and tackle him to the ground. Billy drives a fist into his kidney. Jeff gasps in pain. Red nods impassively.
RED: Bring him up here. Welcome to Brackett, Jeff. If ever there was a two-bit shithole in the middle of nowhere, this is it. One gas station, a half-dozen stores and a V.F.W. hall. See that building?
RED: Welcome to Brackett, Jeff. If ever there was a two-bit shithole in the middle of nowhere, this is it. One gas station, a half-dozen stores and a V.F.W. hall. See that building?
RED: That's the bank. Brackett Commerce Bank. You with me?
RED: Then here's the drill. You're gonna walk in there and tell the manager you want an express wire in the amount of $90,000 from your account in Boston. Got your
RED: You ask for the money in cash. Small bills.
JEFF: How do I know she's still alive?
BILLY: Shut up.
RED: She's tucked away someplace safe. You get her back as soon as we get the money. Simple as that.
RED: Now a smart guy like you, you're already thinking about calling the cops, right?
RED: ( into mike ) Iron Man to Blacktop, let's open the gate.
RED: Like I said, Jeff, if you want to call the cops, there's nothing I can do. Hell, with the fire you've got in your eyes right now, I figure you're fixing on calling the F.B.I., C.I.A. even the 82nd Airborne.
RED: Problem is, you can see this town for miles around. So ask yourself: How's the law gonna get here? They gonna fly in? Drive in? Either way, we'll see 'em. So let me be very clear: if we see one unmarked car, one plane, one human being who even smells like a cop this deal is dead.
RED: Now take a look at the building with the flagpole.
THROUGH BINOCULARS: The IMAGE SHIFTS, then STEADIES and FOCUSES ON a small building with a police cruiser out front and a barely legible sign: "BRACKETT SHERIFF." It's the police station where Jeff filed the missing persons' form Deputy Carver comes out of the building gulping down a sandwich. He gets in the cruiser and pulls away, lights The cruiser pulls away down the highway.
JEFF: lowers the binoculars and looks at Red.
RED: That's your deadline. If for any reason one of those cops pulls into town before I'm looking at a bag of money, your wife is dead, you're shit out of luck and we're gone for good.
RED: See, that's why there's no risk to us in this thing. You do the legwork. We sit back, we watch, we listen to our scanners, we monitor you every step of the way. If at any moment we don't like something, we split. Period. Helluva lot safer than sticking up 7-11s, wouldn't you say?
RED: Put this on. You can't go into the bank like that.
RED: How about it, Jeff? Time to get the show on the road?
JEFF: I need to see the manager. I need a wire transfer from my bank in Yes. sir. I'm the manager. Would you like to have a seat? I said you can have a seat if you Here's my driver's license, credit card if you need it, my account number in Boston. How long is this going to take?
CALHOUN: Yes. sir. I'm the manager. Would you like to have a seat? I said you can have a seat if you Here's my driver's license, credit card if you need it, my account number in Boston. How long is this going to take?
CALHOUN: ( turning; preoccupied )
JEFF: ( turning; preoccupied )
CALHOUN: I said you can have a seat if you Here's my driver's license, credit card if you need it, my account number in Boston. How long is this going to take?
JEFF: He takes a seat across the desk from the manager, reaches into his wallet and brings out several forms of Calhoun looks at him curiously.
JEFF: Here's my driver's license, credit card if you need it, my account number in Boston. How long is this going to take?
CALHOUN: Are you all right?
JEFF: ( quickly ) Yes, I'm fine. Look, that account only has $5,000 in it. How much can you advance me on my credit Excuse me?
CALHOUN: Excuse me?
JEFF: ( impatient ) My credit card. I've got a $6,000 limit. Can you advance me the whole $6,000?
CALHOUN: No, I can't. For non-customers the limit is $500 a day. Sir, are you sure you're all right?
JEFF: Yes, I'm fine. Just. transfer the money, okay?
JEFF: Look, I'm going to tell you something. Whatever happens, just keep filling out that form, okay?
CALHOUN: ( looking up; There are people watching
JEFF: There are people watching
CALHOUN: Yes, I am.
COWBOY: Lady over there said to see you about a car loan.
CALHOUN: ( indicating Certainly, sir. Would you like to have a seat?
CALHOUN: ( turning back You were saying, Mr. Taylor?
JEFF: Just. transfer the money.
JEFF: Would you tell the manager I want the money in these denominations?
JEFF: I'm here.
JEFF: The whole thing. Ninety thousand.
JEFF: When do I see my wife?
CALHOUN: Marie, this is Roger Calhoun down at the bank. Is the Sheriff Well, maybe it's nothing, but you might tell him we just had a fellow in here acting kind of
EARL: Toss the envelope on the seat.
JEFF: No. First you tell me where she Wrong, asshole. First you give me the money, then you find out. Unless you want me to shoot you dead right here on the highway.
EARL: Wrong, asshole. First you give me the money, then you find out. Unless you want me to shoot you dead right here on the highway.
EARL: Now lift your shirt and jacket and turn around.
EARL: Turn around, hands behind your back, and step toward the truck.
EARL: Now get up in the truck, knees on the floor. Do it now!
JEFF: I gave you the money. Now let her 'Let her go.' Do I look like I have her?
EARL: 'Let her go.' Do I look like I have her?
JEFF: What the hell
EARL: ( on phone ) It's done. I'm heading in. ( a beat;
EARL: You gotta be the dumbest motherfuck yet. You think we picked you out of the blue? New car, Massachusetts plates probably be days before anyone misses you. Hell, you shoulda got the bumper sticker that goes with it: 'Rich Assholes Looking for I'd have loved to see the look on your face when that car seized up. Help, help, I ain't got no power!
EARL: I'd have loved to see the look on your face when that car seized up. Help, help, I ain't got no power!
EARL: You know what I'm gonna do first with your money, boy? Well, do
EARL: ( fluttering bills I'll give you a hint. Only one thing smells better than money. You wanta guess what?
EARL: What the hell? Earl stares at the bills. Jeff works feverishly behind his back. Earl pulls out another packet, then another, examining the bills.
EARL: These are. it's nothing but You lyin' sonofabitch! There is a RIPPING SOUND. Jeff wrests his hands free and lunges across the cab. He plants the letter opener in Earl's shoulder!
EARL: EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD - DAY The pickup veers across the center line on the narrow mountain road. It swerves back, over-correcting wildly, and drifts for the opposite shoulder.
JEFF: Where is she, goddammit? What'd you do with her?
JEFF: Where is she?!
EARL: ( barely able Fuck you!
JEFF: You like that? How about this? Four wheel anti-lock brakes, you sonofabitch! You want to try 'em
JEFF: Four wheel anti-lock brakes, you sonofabitch! You want to try 'em
JEFF: How about an emergency stop? You want to try that, Earl? Where is I don't know!
EARL: I don't know!
JEFF: Fuck you, you don't! He slams the brakes again. Earl's eyes bulge sickeningly. He is being choked to death.
EARL: Is that what you want? You really want me to stop? 'Cause I bet this baby stops on a dime!
JEFF: Is that what you want? You really want me to stop? 'Cause I bet this baby stops on a dime!
SHERIFF BOYD: What the hell?
JEFF: End of the line, Earl! How about it? You gonna tell me?
EARL: She's with Billy.
JEFF: Yeah? Where's that?
EARL: I don't know! Driving around!
SHERIFF BOYD: ( on radio ) Repeat, I am in pursuit of a Dodge Ram pickup. Request back-up, repeat, request back-up!
SHERIFF BOYD: Jesus Christ Dispatch! Suspect identified as one Jeffrey Taylor, repeat, Jeffrey Taylor!
JEFF: Where were you taking the money?
EARL: ( losing it ) To the truck stop.
JEFF: Main highway. Texaco.
EARL: Main highway. Texaco.
JEFF: I know where she is! My wife!
SHERIFF BOYD: ( ignoring him ) Drop the gun!
JEFF: You don't understand! She's been I understand plenty. Now get down on the ground or I'll shoot!
SHERIFF BOYD: I understand plenty. Now get down on the ground or I'll shoot!
SHERIFF BOYD: You there in the pickup! You all right? Can you get out?
EARL: Yeah! Just don't shoot me, officer! He's crazy, I tell you!
SHERIFF BOYD: Well, get out dammit!
JEFF: Officer, please. You gotta listen to me
SHERIFF BOYD: ( glances down Shut up. ( to Earl ) C'mon out, sir. It's safe
SHERIFF BOYD: ( weak ) Shots fired. Officer down. Help is on the way, Sheriff. Just hang on. I have units and an ambulance en route.
RED: ( on phone ) I don't know, dammit, he was supposed to be here a half hour ago. There's reports on the police band about a cop down and this place is crawling with
RED: Look, I'm getting out of here. Stay off the airwaves. Bring the girl and meet me at the barn. You got that?
COP: thanks the couple, calls out something to his fellow runs alongside the farm truck, using it as a shield. He overtakes the truck, cuts across its path. The farmer BLARES his HORN. Jeff glances left. Red's tractor trailer is traveling across the crowded parking area, slowly gaining speed. Jeff sprints in front of a moving car. The driver jerks to a halt and HONKS, catching the attention of a nearby cop. Jeff quickly turns away, avoiding being seen. Red's 18-wheeler turns toward the access road. Jeff looks around, panicked. More cops are spreading out on foot. They'll notice him any second.
JEFF: runs alongside the farm truck, using it as a shield. He overtakes the truck, cuts across its path. The farmer BLARES his HORN. Jeff glances left. Red's tractor trailer is traveling across the crowded parking area, slowly gaining speed. Jeff sprints in front of a moving car. The driver jerks to a halt and HONKS, catching the attention of a nearby cop. Jeff quickly turns away, avoiding being seen. Red's 18-wheeler turns toward the access road. Jeff looks around, panicked. More cops are spreading out on foot. They'll notice him any second.
JEFF: ( on phone ) Hello? Can you hear me? This is Jeff Taylor. I need to talk to the deputy.
JEFF: The name is Jeffrey Taylor. I just witnessed your sheriff being shot. Now put someone on,
JEFF: INTERCUT WITH: INT. POLICE STATION - DAY Deputy Carver speaks on a phone extension while the DISPATCHER sits nearby.
DEPUTY CARVER: It's no good. He's not talking. You better mobilize your boys.
DEKE: Daddy, you're home!
RED: Hey, Deke, you miss me?
ARLEEN: Deke, get back to bed! I said Warren? I thought you were coming back next week.
ARLEEN: . but it's four in the morning. Why can't Al and Billy come some other time?
RED: ( reasoning ) I told you, we've got some stuff to take care of. Won't be more than a couple of hours I
RED: Say, Deke, how 'bout opening up the barn for your daddy?
RED: Deke, c'mon over here, I got something for you.
RED: Guess which hand.
DEKE: ( pointing to This one.
RED: Nope. Try again.
DEKE: ( pointing to left ) This hand.
RED: ( he's been Okay, okay, I'll give it to you.
DEKE: ( he's been Okay, okay, I'll give it to you.
RED: ( laughing ) Okay, okay, I'll give it to you.
DEKE: ( CONTINUED )
INSIDE TRAILER: Red sticks his head out of the trailer, puzzled.
RED: Deke? Deke, you back there?
INSIDE TRAILER: Red shrugs, lets it go. He resumes unloading boxes, tosses down a full set of Louis Vuitton luggage. He lugs the items into the barn.
AL: Man, if I never see another couple from Massachusetts it'll be too Tell me about it. You get any word on Earl?
RED: Tell me about it. You get any word on Earl?
BILLY: ( shakes head ) There's reports of an accident up Five Mile, but that's about it.
BILLY: I told you we shoulda gotten rid of 'em like that couple up in Utah. Nice and clean.
RED: So it got a little fucked up so what? We stay out of the area for a while, things will cool off. Dammit, Al, what the hell you
RED: Dammit, Al, what the hell you
AL: Figured I'd get started on the Fuck that, you can work on it later. Help us with the girl.
RED: Fuck that, you can work on it later. Help us with the girl.
CANVAS SACK: The sack is stained and ripped. Red pokes at it. The sack doesn't move. Red shrugs.
RED: Must've died from the exhaust.
RED: I'll get some plastic. We'll bury her before it gets light out.
AL: ( startled )
AL: Goddamn. Scared me half to death.
BILLY: ( chuckles ) Gotcha good, huh, Al? Oughta be more careful next time.
AL: Shut up. Lemme do her, Red. I'll cut her head off right now.
RED: Shit, it's my wife. Help me get her in the freezer. Just a second, Arleen.
AMY: squirms on the hay-strewn floor. Her clothes are ripped, face bruised. She looks up, reacting: Jeff's eye is visible in the knothole. Their gaze meets. and holds.
RED: returns and takes Amy by the legs. Al and Billy lift her by the arms. As they carry her to the root cellar, Red peers into her terrified face.
RED: Don't worry, honey. It's not as bad as it sounds. It'll take you about 10 minutes to suck the air out. Probably won't even feel it.
BARN HAYLOFT: Jeff watches helplessly as.
RED: C'mon, let's go.
ARLEEN: Well finally. Are you coming to breakfast? I've been calling you.
RED: Sure thing, honey.
JEFF: Amy? Amy, can you hear me?
JEFF: ( louder )
JEFF: Hang on, baby. They're in the house; I can't use the lights. I'm gonna get you out.
JEFF: He gets up, goes to the tool bench. His hands feel over and reject an assortment of small tools. He finds a crowbar, returns to the trap door and inserts it into the shackle, twisting with all his might. After several failed attempts, he swears.
JEFF: It's not working. If I make any more noise, they'll hear.
JEFF: I'm going to get you out of there,
JEFF: I love you. Please, God, let her still be
JEFF: ( under his breath ) Fuck you, asshole.
HALLWAY: toward the voices. VIDEO GAME sound effects emanate from a room off the hall. Jeff flattens against the wall, peers into the living room. Seated on the floor with his back to Jeff, Deke is playing Nintendo on a wide-screen television. Various items are scattered about: stereo speakers, a jukebox, a brand new Nordic Track. There is a rifle rack across the Stepping past the doorway, Jeff continues down the hall INT. RED'S KITCHEN - NIGHT Red is in the middle of telling a story. Arleen, Billy and Al sit around the table.
RED: . So there I am, it's a howling snow storm, I've got 2000 live chickens that are supposed to be in Denver days ago, and this cop is busting my balls because I haven't got chains.
RED: So what happens but this big old rooster, damn thing must've weighed ten pounds, he reaches out toward that highway patrolman.
RED: . just reaches out with his beak, see, and.
JEFF: Give me the key.
RED: ( placating ) Now hold on, mister. I don't know who you are or what you want
JEFF: Give me the fucking key!
RED: ( a beat ) Don't mister me, you sonofabitch! My wife is locked in a hole in your fucking barn! You don't give me the key, I'll blow your fucking head off!
JEFF: Don't mister me, you sonofabitch! My wife is locked in a hole in your fucking barn! You don't give me the key, I'll blow your fucking head off!
ARLEEN: ( clueless ) Warren? What's going on?
RED: I don't know, honey. Just stay Your husband's a kidnapper and a murderer is what's going on! Did you know that about him? Huh? Ever wonder where all this stuff comes from? Arleen looks up at Jeff, scared. She starts to open her mouth, when
JEFF: ( to Arleen ) Your husband's a kidnapper and a murderer is what's going on! Did you know that about him? Huh? ( gestures ) Ever wonder where all this stuff comes from?
JEFF: You don't want to do that, kid. Just put the gun down.
RED: ( firm ) Don't listen to him, Deke. Keep the gun on him.
JEFF: Put the gun down.
DEKE: ( voice quavering ) My daddy keeps his rifle loaded all the time. He showed me in case I needed to protect Mommy when he's away.
JEFF: I understand that, Deke. I'm not gonna hurt Mommy. But if you pull that trigger, there's a chance I'll still kill your father.
RED: He's lying, Deke. He can't get me. Just pull the trigger.
JEFF: No, Deke, don't listen to him. He's wrong.
RED: Plug him, boy! Do what I tell
RED: That's right, boy. Do it. Don't worry about me.
JEFF: Deke, no !
AL: Oww goddammit, you little shit!
JEFF: Don't fucking move!
JEFF: Deke? Deke? Get on your feet!
JEFF: It's okay, kid. Go over there, stand next to your mother. Hurry
JEFF: Okay. on your feet. Now,
JEFF: Let's go. Out. Do like he says, Arleen. He's
RED: Do like he says, Arleen. He's
JEFF: ( to Red ) Okay. Reach into your pocket and hand the key to your wife.
RED: This ain't gonna work, boy.
JEFF: ( jams pistol Do it.
RED: It's okay, Arleen. Take it.
JEFF: ( indicating Okay, now unlock it.
JEFF: Good. Now give me the keys. Deke, push the door open.
JEFF: That's enough, Deke. Let's go. Move it.
JEFF: Deke, I need you to open this.
JEFF: It's okay, Deke. There's a freezer down there with a woman in it. I need you to let her out.
RED: ( a beat, to Deke ) The switch is on the right.
RED: It's all right, son. Just ignore that stuff.
JEFF: ( to Deke ) Deke! You at the freezer?
JEFF: Okay. You're almost done. Just open it up, let the woman out.
DEKE: She's all tied up with tape.
JEFF: You got that Swiss Army knife your dad gave you?
JEFF: Good man. Use that. Make sure you don't hurt her.
JEFF: ( to Red ) You better pray she's all right.
JEFF: AMY ( O.S. )
JEFF: Amy, come up here!
AMY: They were going to kill me.
JEFF: I know, baby. It's okay. They can't hurt you now.
JEFF: ( to Red, Arleen, and Al ) Okay. Everybody in the cellar.
JEFF: Do it!
RED: Remember this moment, pretty boy. 'Cause whatever happens, no matter how far you run, I will hunt you down and kill you like a dog.
JEFF: Go to hell. Let's get out of here.
JEFF: Let's get out of here.
JEFF: Amy, no! It's not safe
AMY: ( turning ) But there's a phone inside. We have to call the police.
JEFF: One of them's still loose. C'mon this way!
REVEAL BILLY: lurking in the shadows at the corner of the barn, EXT. FIELD - LONG SHOT - DAWN Jeff and Amy are tiny figures sprinting across the flat terrain, illuminated by the red glow of a rising sun.
JEFF: Hello? Hello? Anybody home?
JEFF: ( shouting ) Hello? Anyone home?
JEFF: C'mon, c'mon.
JEFF: ( re: keys ) Take it. We may need to get out of here ( into phone, Hello! This is Jeff Taylor. I'm reporting an emergency. I don't know the address, the house belongs to a Red Barr I mean, Warren something. No, I don't know his name!
AMY: ( suddenly hearing
JEFF: No he kidnapped my wife, he's locked in a barn. Jeffrey Taylor. If you contact the police
AMY: ( panicked )
JEFF: Amy is crawling over the debris. Jeff pulls her to her feet. He grabs the rifle and car keys.
JEFF: They stagger through the gaping hole in the trailer.
YARD: Amy and Jeff run for the Ford F100 utility truck an aging blue-collar workhorse equipped with side-mounted toolboxes and a lumber rack bearing a ladder.
IN FORD: Jeff keys the ignition. The ENGINE SPUTTERS. Amy whips around to see the Peterbilt bearing down from the side.
AMY: Jeff, go! Go!
HIGHWAY: The FORD PEELS OUT of the driveway and joins the road, spewing exhaust. It's an old vehicle that doesn't maneuver well.
IN FORD: Jeff mashes the gas pedal. The ENGINE STRAINS, BACKFIRING. Amy looks back, sees the Peterbilt joining the road.
AMY: Can't this thing go any faster?!
JEFF: What the fuck?!
FIREBIRD: kicking up a cloud of dust as it pulls alongside the Ford on the right-hand shoulder. The driver, Billy, is levelling a shotgun through the cranks the wheel.
JEFF: cranks the wheel.
JEFF: Get down!
IN FIREBIRD: Billy triggers a BLAST!
AMY: yelps as the passenger-side MIRROR DISINTEGRATES! She whips around, sees
CADILLAC DEVILLE: pulling even with them on Jeff's side. The drive, Al, leers as he spins the wheel and creases the Ford
CRUNCH!: raises the PISTOL and FIRES!
JEFF: raises the PISTOL and FIRES!
HIGHWAY: The Ford is sandwiched between the Cadillac and Firebird as they race down the highway with the Peterbilt in the lets out a cry as they carom off the Cadillac. Blood flows in a trickle down his neck. Amy sees it, Amy raises the rifle, thrusts the barrel awkwardly out the window and aims at Billy. She FIRES wildly BANG!
JEFF: lets out a cry as they carom off the Cadillac. Blood flows in a trickle down his neck. Amy sees it, Amy raises the rifle, thrusts the barrel awkwardly out the window and aims at Billy. She FIRES wildly BANG!
AMY: It's glass! Use the rifle!
JEFF: It's glass! Use the rifle!
BILLY: grins as the SHOT WHISTLES past harmlessly. He reloads the SHOTGUN, snaps it shut and RETURNS FIRE BLAM!
HIGHWAY: The BLAST hits the Ford's side-mounted toolbox. The door flies open. Tools scatter on the road!
BILLY: veers away, swearing, as hammers and chisels and power tools hit the asphalt and bounce up into his path. The front end of the extension ladder comes free from the lumber rack and hinges into his path, SMASHING the
WINDSHIELD!: Billy swears and jerks the wheel, steering away. He glances up suddenly, sees Jeff aiming the pistol. The PISTOL FIRES! Billy slams backward against the headrest, hit in the face. There's blood everywhere. The car careens toward the shoulder.
BILLY: Billy swears and jerks the wheel, steering away. He glances up suddenly, sees Jeff aiming the pistol. The PISTOL FIRES! Billy slams backward against the headrest, hit in the face. There's blood everywhere. The car careens toward the shoulder.
HIGHWAY: The Firebird hits a mound of earth, flies through the air and lands with a CRASH!
IN PETERBILT: Red sees the crash, scowling. He presses the gas and pulls closer, taking Billy's place alongside the Ford.
IN FORD: Amy sees the Peterbilt advancing. Whipping her head to the other side, she sees Al raising a pistol.
AMY: Look out!
ON PETERBILT: a STRAY BULLET SLICES the hydraulic brake line running to the trailer. The HOSE HISSES and whips through the air!
IN PETERBILT: Red swears and lets the truck fall back, swearing. Up ahead is a long, curving downgrade. He taps the brakes. There is a jolt as the trailer bumps the tractor.
RED: He realizes: The trailer's got no brakes.
HIGHWAY: The Peterbilt descends the grade, letting out a RAPID- FIRE BLAT of BACKFIRES. It's gaining speed, bearing down on the Ford.
IN FORD: Amy turns in the seat, terrified. The truck looms closer. Jeff keeps the gas pedal on the floor.
JEFF: Hang on!
IN PETERBILT: Red struggles to stay in control. Every time he applies the brakes, the unchecked trailer jars the cab forward. The Peterbilt races into the curve. Red has no choice. He has to pump the brakes and risk jackknifing or the truck will fly off the road He hits the brakes!
HIGHWAY: The huge TRUCK SCREECHES on the asphalt, tires smoking, cab and trailer folding at right angles! Then, unexpectedly, the trailer disconnects from the cab!
IN CADILLAC: Flanking the Peterbilt, Al glances to the side and sees the trailer come untethered from the cab. Now the trailer is an unguided missile, weaving drunkenly back and forth across the blacktop. Al tries to swerve away. The trailer streaks toward him. Al SLAMS on the BRAKES, screaming!
HIGHWAY: The trailer piles into the Cadillac. There is a huge IMPACT as trailer and Cadillac are reduced to scrap And just as this is happening.
PETERBILT: blasts into the rear of the Ford, jarring it forward with a CRUNCH of METAL and taillights!
JEFF: slams against the wheel. Amy is thrown against the dashboard. The Ford is being propelled downhill by the The two vehicles are now locked together, gaining speed as they hurtle down the grade.
HIGHWAY: The two vehicles are now locked together, gaining speed as they hurtle down the grade.
JEFF: jams the pistol through the rear pass-through window and FIRES at Red in the truck. BULLETS PING off the grille. The GUN CLICKS empty.
IN PETERBILT: Red hits the brakes, but it's no use. The bumpers are meshed. The two vehicles plunge downhill, skidding Up ahead, a concrete bridge spans a deep gorge.
HIGHWAY: The Peterbilt and Ford fly onto the bridge. The big truck glances off a railing. The vehicles suddenly come The FORD plows into the concrete railing with a CRASH! The PETERBILT creams it from behind and caroms away, SKIDDING the length of the bridge before SMACKING the opposite railing!
INSIDE ROAD: Jeff grimaces. In front of them, the concrete railing has broken away. Debris falls 300 feet to the bottom of the gorge. The Ford's right front tire hangs in the air. Jeff looks at Amy. She looks wildly adrenalated, eyes Amy looks back at him. She expels a long breath and Jeff forces his upper body through the driver's window and looks over the Ford's roof at the Peterbilt.
JEFF: You all right?
JEFF: AMY ( O.S. )
JEFF: What is it?
AMY: ( wriggling ) It's just. I can't get out.
JEFF: What do you mean?
AMY: I mean I can't get out!
JEFF: C'mon, Amy, push!
JEFF: Push, goddammit!
PETERBILT: creeps toward the Ford. The truck's grille is smashed. One wheel RIM SCRAPES the asphalt. It gains speed.
IN FORD: Jeff crawls over Amy and tries pushing with his legs. She winces as the metal cuts into her skin. Jeff rams the rear of the FORD CRASH! It jars the pickup farther through broken concrete guardrail.
AMY: ( turning, reacting )
PETERBILT: rams the rear of the FORD CRASH! It jars the pickup farther through broken concrete guardrail.
IN FORD: Jeff and Amy are thrown forward by the impact. The Peterbilt's ENGINE ROARS. It's pushing them over the IN PETERBILT Red's eyes burn as he presses the accelerator and forces the pickup farther through the broken railing.
IN PETERBILT: Red's eyes burn as he presses the accelerator and forces the pickup farther through the broken railing.
FORD: lurches through the widening gap in the railing. Concrete sails into the canyon. The front tires hang over the void.
IN FORD: Jeff strains against the dashboard. It won't give. He whips around, swearing, and leaps from the Ford.
AMY: ( panicked )
ON BRIDGE: Jeff runs to the Peterbilt and jumps on the driver's side running board, grasping the door handle. Red heaves the door open suddenly. It strikes Jeff's head with a crack! He falls backward to the ground.
IN PETERBILT: Red presses the gas, yelling over the ENGINE ROAR. The railing is giving way. He sees Jeff struggling to his
RED: You think you can come into my life and fuck with me? Nobody fucks with me!
ON BRIDGE: The truck is no longer hitting the Ford squarely. Instead, the Peterbilt's right front tire is riding up and over the cargo bed, crushing the left side of the Ford under its massive weight.
IN PETERBILT: Red has both hands around Jeff's windpipe. He glances up for a second, reacts, but it's too late.
ON BRIDGE: The Peterbilt is surging up the driver's side of the Ford, using the pickup like a ramp!
IN FORD: Amy screams as the left side of the cab is flattened under the Peterbilt's weight!
ON BRIDGE: For an instant, the Peterbilt's front tires seem to hang in the air. then the truck is falling!
IN PETERBILT: Red and Jeff are thrown forward in the cab, still flailing at each other, as the truck plunges nose-first into the gorge. Then it jerks to a halt in mid-air!
ON BRIDGE: The left rear set of wheels on the trailer is snagged on the thick rebar reinforcement in the crumbled concrete The Peterbilt is dangling nose-down from the bridge!
IN PETERBILT: Jeff slams into the windshield. Red lands on top of him. Loose objects from the cab rain against the windshield. They grapple. Red grabs Jeff's arm and twists sharply, forcing it at an impossible angle. Their faces are inches apart.
RED: You think you can fuck with me?!
ON BRIDGE: The iron REBAR GROANS. It's beginning to give way under the weight of the truck. The truck slips slightly.
ON PETERBILT: Jeff feels the truck shifting. He grabs the windshield wiper blade with his free hand. The blade snaps away. Red is clinging to the steering wheel. He flails at Jeff with his feet, swearing. Jeff is barely out of reach. Jeff looks to the side. There is a grabhandle on the corner of the cab. He reaches with his free hand and seizes the handle.
ON BRIDGE: The REBAR GROANS. The truck is wedged against the Ford. As the truck slips, it forces the Ford closer to the ON PETERBILT Jeff clings to the handle. He reaches for the passenger side door handle, working his way up toward the bridge.
ON PETERBILT: Jeff clings to the handle. He reaches for the passenger side door handle, working his way up toward the bridge.
REBAR: gives away once more and
JEFF: scales the cab, finding more handholds. He climbs past the passenger door. Behind him, Red is working his way higher in the same manner. He grabs Jeff's foot, trying to pull him off the Jeff kicks free and climbs past the sleeping compartment. Red grabs the door handle. Jeff boots the door release The passenger door flies open! Red falls away as the door opens. He's clinging to the open passenger door, suspended over the gorge.
IN FORD: Amy breathes in sharply, feeling the Ford move closer to the edge. She struggles to free her legs from the
AMY: Oh God. Jeff.
JEFF: climbs higher. The Peterbilt slips again. Below, Red loses his grip and almost falls. Jeff hauls himself onto the bridge with a final gasp of exertion. He runs to the passenger side of the Ford.
JEFF: C'mon, Amy, it's all you now. you can do it.
PETERBILT: comes free from the rebar!
AMY: takes hold of Jeff's hand.
PETERBILT: plummets into the canyon!
RED: seems to fall forever. before landing with a huge
PETERBILT: seems to fall forever. before landing with a huge
EXPLOSION!: ON BRIDGE Jeff and Amy fall backward on the road. Down below, secondary EXPLOSIONS rock the canyon. Jeff takes Amy in his arms.
ON BRIDGE: Jeff and Amy fall backward on the road. Down below, secondary EXPLOSIONS rock the canyon. Jeff takes Amy in his arms.
AMY: Don't let me go, Jeff.
JEFF: I won't, baby. I won't ever let you go.
JEFF: How's the sheriff?
FBI AGENT: Out of surgery. It looks like he's gonna make it. As for the wife and kid, she's not talking, he's being turned over to Protective Services.
FBI AGENT: We've got I.D. on the dead suspects. Turns out they were all licensed truckers. One of 'em had a rap for check kiting. Otherwise they could've been model citizens.
JEFF: What about the leader?
FBI AGENT: Same thing. His real name's Warren Claney. Three speeding tickets in five years apart from that, he's clean as a
AMY: ( dazed ) How could they do it? How could they treat it like a. business?
FBI AGENT: ( shaking his head ) I don't know. I've been doing this 15 years, I've never seen anything like it.
FBI: ( re: media ) C'mon let's get you folks out of here before things really get
AMY: Promise me one thing.
JEFF: Name it.
AMY: Next time. we fly.
THE END: Writers : Jonathan Mostow
