FADE IN: EXT. CITY STREET - DAY A restaurant supply truck is curbside, near a small restaurant. GERALD GRUNICK, forty-one, is closing the back door of his truck, feeling good about the world, a common state for him. He moves towards the cab of the truck and gets inside as we SUPER:
GERALD: I don't know a recent Saturday I've sold more. You didn't think I'd sell that health restaurant, did you?
TOM: No. Not even you.
GERALD: Why so glum?
TOM: I don't know.
GERALD: ( a beat ) Go ahead.
TOM: No, nothing. I've got a problem, I guess.
GERALD: Were you bothering by those waitresses making a fuss?
TOM: No. But, honest. What are you supposed to say when they keep talking about your looks? I don't even know what they mean "Beat them off with a stick." Gerald stiffs a grin.
GERALD: You know, Tom, I feel a little proud when people comment on your looks. Maybe you should feel that Proud? I'm just embarrassed that I like when they say those things.
TOM: Proud? I'm just embarrassed that I like when they say those things.
GERALD: As long as that's your only problem It's not. He looks directly at his father and talks quietly, and sincerely.
TOM: It's not. He looks directly at his father and talks quietly, and sincerely.
TOM: I got my report card. Three Cs, two Ds and an incomplete.
GERALD: Oh my. I see you studying so hard, Tom. What do you think the problem is?
TOM: I'll just have to try harder. I don't know. I will. I will. I will. I will. He shakes his head for emphasis, glad he's received this pep talk from himself he hands the card to his father.
TOM: Thanks, Dad, this talk helped. Will you sign it, please?
GERALD: ( as he signs ) Would it help if I got you a tutor?
TOM: ( suddenly hopeful ) That would be great. ( worried ) It better help. What can you do with yourself if all you do is look good?
FADE OUT: FADE IN BOSTON, MASS. - 1965 INT. HIGH SCHOOL - AUDITORIUM - DAY AARON ALTMAN, looking almost preposterously young in his graduation gown is delivering his valedictory. He is a rare bread a battle-scarred innocent.
FADE IN: BOSTON, MASS. - 1965 INT. HIGH SCHOOL - AUDITORIUM - DAY AARON ALTMAN, looking almost preposterously young in his graduation gown is delivering his valedictory. He is a rare bread a battle-scarred innocent.
AARON: .and finally to the teachers of Whitman High School, I don't have the words to express my gratitude which may have more to say about the quality of the English Department here than my own limitations. He awaits a laugh and gets only the weird sound of collective .that was, of course, not meant to be taken seriously. A personal note. I am frequently asked what the special difficulties are in being graduated from High School two months shy of my fifteenth birthday. I sometimes think it was the difficulties themselves which enabled me to do it. If I'd been appreciated or even tolerated I wouldn't have been in such a hurry to graduate. I hope the next student who comes along and is able to excel isn't made to feel so much an outcast. But I'm looking forward to college; this is the happiest day I've had in a long time. I thank you and I forgive you. This is very little applause.
AARON: .that was, of course, not meant to be taken seriously. A personal note. I am frequently asked what the special difficulties are in being graduated from High School two months shy of my fifteenth birthday. I sometimes think it was the difficulties themselves which enabled me to do it. If I'd been appreciated or even tolerated I wouldn't have been in such a hurry to graduate. I hope the next student who comes along and is able to excel isn't made to feel so much an outcast. But I'm looking forward to college; this is the happiest day I've had in a long time. I thank you and I forgive you. This is very little applause.
MALE TEACHER: I'm always so confused by Aaron. Is he brave and earnest or just a conceited little dick-head?
YOUTH #1: Later, Aaron.
CLOSER IN: Aaron feeling from a blow his lip bleeding his teeth covered with blood.as he gets to his feet. He is livid something primal triggered by this brutality.
AARON: Go ahead, Stephen take your last licks. But this will heal what I'm going to say to you will scar you forever. Ready? Here it is. He dodges as they come after him. They catch him by the hair and hurl him to the ground. As he gets up he hurls his devastating verbal blow.
AARON: You'll never make more than nineteen thousand dollars a year. Ha ha ha. They twist his arm and grip him his face scraped on the Okay, take this: You'll never leave South Boston and I'm going to see the whole damn world. You'll never know the pleasure of writing a graceful sentence or having an original thought. Think about it. He's punched in the stomach and sinks to the ground. As the Young Toughs walk off Aaron catches a phrase of their Nineteen thousand dollars. Not bad.
AARON: Okay, take this: You'll never leave South Boston and I'm going to see the whole damn world. You'll never know the pleasure of writing a graceful sentence or having an original thought. Think about it. He's punched in the stomach and sinks to the ground. As the Young Toughs walk off Aaron catches a phrase of their Nineteen thousand dollars. Not bad.
YOUTH TOUGH: Nineteen thousand dollars. Not bad.
FADE IN: ATLANTA, GEORGIA - 1968 INT. SUBURBAN HOME - NIGHT JANE CRAIG, ten years old, is in her room typing. Above the desk where she works is a bulletin board with letters and pictures tacked to each one. Her desk has several file racks which contain bulging but neat stacks of air mail envelopes a roll of stamps in a dispenser is to one side. Jane types very well in the glare of her desk lamp.
JANE: ( voice over; as Dear Felatzia, it's truly amazing to me that we live a world apart and yet have the same favorite music. I loved the picture you sent and have it up on my bulletin board. You're growing so much faster than I am that I.
OTHER ANGLE: SHOWING Jane's FATHER standing near the door.
JANE: ( voice over ) .am starting to get jealous. I read in the newspapers about the Italian strike and riots in Milan. I hope you weren't.
FATHER: ( softly ) Jane SCREAMS, and grabs her heart, breathing heavily, babbles nervously at her Dad.
JANE: Oh God Daddy don't.don't. don't ever scare me like that We SUPER: "FUTURE NETWORK NEWS PRODUCER" Her father is himself taken aback with the shock of her reaction. Falling back towards the door:
FATHER: Jane For God's sake. Look, it's time for you to go to sleep.
JANE: I just have two more pen pals and then I'm done.
FATHER: You don't have to finish tonight.
JANE: ( he doesn't get in ) Nooo. This way the rotation stays the same.
FATHER: Finish quickly. I don't want you getting obsessive about these things. Good night. We REMAIN WITH Jane who has obviously become disconcerted and INT. HOUSE - NIGHT As Jane moves to room at the other end of the hall a family room where her Father reads the latest Rolling Stone of the mid-60's Hunter Thompson, the New Journalism, the slim Jann Wenner Jane bursts into the room.
JANE: Dad, you want me to choose my words so carefully and then you just throw a word like 'obsessive' at me. Now, unless I'm wrong and. .please correct me if I am, 'obsession' is practically a psychiatric term. concerning people who don't have anything else but the object of their obsession who can't stop and do anything else. Well, Here I am stopping to tell you this. Okay? So would you please try and be a little more precise instead of calling a person something like 'obsessive.' She advances furiously on her Father since even this strung out, even with two additional pen pal letters to get off, she had enough sense of duty to kiss him good night before storming from the room. She exits the room INTO BLACK. Stay on BLACK as we begin MAIN TITLES:
ON JANE: As she dials one room number.
JANE: ( into phone ) Hi.It's me.
JANE'S VOICE: ( voice over ) It's thirty minutes before you have to meet me in the lobby nudge your wife.
JANE: There's probably no time to eat. but there's a cafeteria at the bus depot once we get down there. I love working with you two.It saves me a call. She dales.
AARON: Hi. Turn on your TV. Good Morning America, the Morning News and Today are all about to talk to Arnold Schwarzenegger and I think he's live on at least two of them.
JANE: At six o'clock on the wake-up news they used the wrong missile Now listen, Arnold just said that he's been making three million a movie now. But he's not ever gonna change. He's still the same person when he was making two million dollars a movie. He feels no different. He also bought a brand- new condo with Maria, they gonna furnish tastefully.
AARON: ( Austrian accent ) Now listen, Arnold just said that he's been making three million a movie now. But he's not ever gonna change. He's still the same person when he was making two million dollars a movie. He feels no different. He also bought a brand- new condo with Maria, they gonna furnish tastefully.
JANE: A half hour in the lobby.
AARON: ( Austrian accent ) Okay, I'll see you in the lobbies [sic]. She hangs up takes the phone off the hook and lays it on the bed for a moment's solitude. She sits stiffly, palms on top of her legs. It looks like someone with unusually good posture, waiting for something, and now we BEGIN TO SEE the first signs redden and she begins to cry. Now she sobs then miraculously shakes it off and exits quickly to the bathroom. This crying episode is clearly part of her morning routine.
AARON: Your hair's a little funny.
CAMERAMAN: Your hair's a little funny.
AARON: It's an ethnic curl, I can't do anything about it.
CAMERAMAN: In front of a little it's a bit. You want a mirror?
AARON: No Don't worry about it. Let's do this. Jane nods her assent.
CAMERAMAN: AARON SEEN THROUGH CAMERA
AARON: In other times, for other purposes, there might be a band and bunting here at the bus depot for J.D. Singer's return from war. He.
JANE: ( interrupting ) I'm sorry. But look at how wonderful his face is. She points to the derelict.
AARON: Oh, you mean use him.That's nice. Okay.
CAMERAMAN: I'll put him in the low corner of the frame good.
AARON: In other times, with other purposes, there might be a band and bunting here at the bus depot for J.D. Singer's return from war. Last week he was decorated by a president for heroism in a war. But it was the civil war in Angola and he was in it for the He puts the microphone down.
AARON: He passes a vending machine and checks the stray hair.
AARON: Just a few questions?
AARON: We came from Washington.
AARON: ( holding out How long has it been since you've been home.
AARON: It depends on how big a news day it They reach Jane. She calls to him.
JANE: J.D. I'm Jane Craig. I spoke to you in Angola. I gave you some sugarless gum and Handi-Wipes. As he reacts to her:
AARON: Where's where I asked him about being scared? You should work on your speech.
JANE: No. It makes me nervous to think about it. Let's do this. She consults her notes and goes back to the exact spot.
AARON: ( on tape ) All this business of war do you get scared?
JANE: I love that turn away.
JANE: ( in darkness ) There's a point I'm trying to make about these pieces coming up. A WOMAN'S OUTLINE blacked out from behind her VOICE
WOMAN: ( o.s.; angrily ) I don't think any client of mine makes less than fifty thousand dollars a year which means they can afford the best and you're damn right I feel good that that includes me.
WOMAN TWO: ( o.s. ) No. You'd be surprised at who a working girl meets. I've been a working girl for what? over a year anyway and that must be a thousand men and I don't think there's an age or type that hasn't been in there.
INTERVIEWER'S VOICE: ( voice over ) Policemen? Doctor? Lawyer.?
WOMAN TWO: ( o.s. ) Oh, sure. Television reporters. A laugh from the audience. There is a:
WOMAN THREE: ( o.s. ) I'm seventeen now and I've been working the streets for two years and I guess to be honest I stopped thinking of it as temporary. The lights come up on the room. The two screens go black. there is general APPLAUSE. Jane blinks nervously.
JANE: Please don't applaud.
ON AUDIENCE: Sitting in groups of three NEWS TEAM from around the country, remarkably similar in comparison.a great looking woman, good looking man ( either young or attractively avuncular ) and a Black or Hispanic. They still APPLAUD not yet having grasped the sincerity of Jane's plea which she presses with more urgency.
JANE: Please. Don't!! I gathered these pieces as an example of what's WRONG with local television news. The applause stops.
JANE: The excerpts from THREE SEPARATE SERIES on prostitution were SIMULTANEOUSLY broadcast by all stations in one city during sweeps week. By what bend of either or suspension of duty is that broadcast She pauses half a beat for possible applause hearing none, she continues. An anchorman sneezes four people shout "gesundheit" simultaneously they laugh.
JANE: The legacy of Edward R. Murrow, Eric Sevareid, William Shirer, David Brinkley and Walter Cronkite is being squandered in a desperate popularity contest. Our profession is in danger:
TRACKING SHOT: As Jane continues, REVEALING that the news team now have even more in common. They do not like Jane.
JANE: Yesterday's compliment has somehow managed to become today's kiss of death. To be considered a serious journalist is no longer flattering. It presents the risk of being labeled ponderous, or worse yet, elitest, SHOT CONTINUES Women playing with their hair, young man bored.one middle-aged anchorman fusses with a spot on his tie.
SHOT CONTINUES: Women playing with their hair, young man bored.one middle-aged anchorman fusses with a spot on his tie.
ON JANE: Briefly departing from text.
JANE: All of you know what I'm talking about. We're all trying to act together than we are. But we care. So, we're all secretly terrified, aren't we? Not a peep she is thrown but doggedly presses on with her prepared speech though her throat constricts a bit, her voice begins to rasp.
JANE: We are being increasingly influenced by the star system. The network anchormen are so powerful they compromise our last best hope. The current group is clearly qualified, tied still to our best traditions, but who follows these men?
TOM: His female colleague looks at him.
FEMALE COLLEAGUE: Oh, I've known so many women like that. They don't like their looks so they're angry.
JANE: I was going to talk about other trends but. .the magazine shows, news at profit, influence of Entertainment Tonight, the danger, the hope, the dream, the question.Oh, I was going to show you a tape a story that was carried by all networks on the same night the same night not one network noted a major policy change in Salt Two nuclear disarmament talks. Here's what they ran instead.Go ahead. Show the tape.
ON MONITORS: Showing the Japanese Domino Championships as broadcast by all networks in the Spring of 1985. It is quite spectacular the dominoes falling into one another provoking waves, crossing tiny bridges, setting off little fireworks. JANE'S AUDIENCE applauds loudly and squeals with delight.
ON SCENE: Jane between the two monitors. She begins to speak loudly OVER the AUDIENCE NOISES of approval.
JANE: ( loudly ) I know it's good film. I know it's fun. I like fun. It's just not news. ( as they continue Well, you're lucky you love it you're going to get a lot more just like it.
OTHER ANGLE: Jane sitting rocked into momentary catatonia, by the event. Dazed as an animal stung by a tranquilizer dart. She takes some irregular breaths waiting for normal life to return.
WIDER: Tom the last person remaining in the room. He approaches her she is totally unaware of his presence, even when he casually mounts the stage with an athletic leap. It takes courage for Tom to fully intrude himself, which he now does:
TOM: She looks up at him.
JANE: I just wanted to tell you how great you were. My name's Tom Grunick.
TOM: I just wanted to tell you how great you were. My name's Tom Grunick.
JANE: ( dumbly ) Thank you. ( then ) They hated me. I don't hate them.
TOM: Well, they say if you can reach even one person, it means something. And you did that. Jane looks up at his smile a beat then:
JANE: Would you like to have dinner with me?
JANE: Hi. I was worried I was early.
TOM: I was a lot earlier. They are lead to a table and sit down.
TOM: I kept thinking what a great break it was for me to get to see you tonight. More than a great break, maybe just what I needed.just when I needed it.Angel of mercy I like "godsend."
JANE: ( picking one ) I like "godsend."
TOM: I haven't been in news that long. I've just been looking for the right person to talk to. I have about two thousand questions for you. He notices that her head has gone into her hands where it continues to rest. He looks at her a beat.
TOM: It's possible now's not the right She lifts her head.
JANE: If we could just eat first.
TOM: Totally understood. Totally wrong of me to talk shop after the day you've had. Totally Nooo. If I could just have a roll, I'd be okay. She takes a roll from the roll plate. He smiles at her. She takes a bite.
JANE: Nooo. If I could just have a roll, I'd be okay. She takes a roll from the roll plate. He smiles at her. She takes a bite.
JANE: Thank you.
JANE: Another thing I can't stand Is this dull? Tom shakes his head almost violently.
TOM: No, no, no, no. Jane looks at him curiously then:
JANE: ( broadly ) Another thing I can't stand is .when White House reporters bullshit with each other after a briefing and then one of them has a theory and the other quotes it in his story as "White House" sources say.
TOM: That actually goes on.
JANE: Yes. My room is down here I'm not tired. Do you want to keep talking?
TOM: Yes, sure.
JANE: Come on.Even I'm not that hard on myself.
TOM: No, I really got this job on a fluke and wait till you hear where it ends up. Jane smiles a calming smile.
JANE: I was doing sports at the station. The newspaper ran this untrue story that I was leaving and they got all these tons of protest mail. So they made me anchor.
JANE: So great right?
TOM: Except I'm no good at what I'm being a success at.
JANE: How are you at back rubs? Jane shifts her position so that her back is to Tom. He is immobilized by the sudden turn. Jane waits, just a bit longer than it would take a man to run from the chair to her side before experiencing the ghost-like clutch of rejection. She moves briskly past the moment grabbing a "good night" chocolate from the pillow and munching it as she return to his agenda.
JANE: It's sort of normal the way you feel. In graduate school everyone thought the only mistake the admission committee made was letting them in. He moves to the bed.
TOM: Listen to me. You keep on thinking I'm somebody ho lacks.confidence. That's not it. I know I can talk well enough and I'm not bad at making contact with people, but I don't like the feeling that I'm pretending to be a And half the time I don't really get the news I'm talking about. It isn't that I'm down on myself. Trust me, I stink.
JANE: ( levelly ) I trust you.
TOM: I didn't even have the chance to get really good at sports. I wasn't bad. I thought I was starting to do interesting features but hockey is big at the station and.
JANE: ( interrupting ) What about the obvious remedy? Reversing things. Maybe getting a job on a newspaper.
TOM: I don't write. Jane laughs or, more accurately, scoffs as Tom Continues.
TOM: But that didn't stop me from sending out audition tapes to bigger stations and the networks.
JANE: Well, come on it is your life. Nobody is tying you to the fast track. Did you go to college?
TOM: One year.almost one year.
JANE: So, you're not well educated and you have almost no experience and you can't write. He nods agreement.
TOM: And I'm making a fortune. Jane laughs very briefly then rubs her face vigorously with her hands. He's making her feel a little crazy. She gets off the bed.
JANE: It's hard for me to advise you since you personify something that I truly think is dangerous.
TOM: ( holding it in ) I agree with you you're not qualified. ( letting it out ) So get qualified. You can insist on being better prepared. You don't have to just leave it as. ( mimicking him ) 'I don't write. I'm not schooled. I don't understand the news I'm reading. But at least I'm upset about it, folks.' A beat, then he mumbles softly to himself.
JANE: ( holding it in ) I agree with you you're not qualified. ( letting it out ) So get qualified. You can insist on being better prepared. You don't have to just leave it as. ( mimicking him ) 'I don't write. I'm not schooled. I don't understand the news I'm reading. But at least I'm upset about it, folks.' A beat, then he mumbles softly to himself.
TOM: Whoa, this was a mistake.
JANE: Just what do you want from me, anyway? Permission to be a fake? Stop whining and do something about it. He gets up to leave. She follows him.
JANE: Well, you don't have to start right now. He turns to her.
TOM: I hated the way you talked to me just now.and it wasn't just because you were right. He exits.
JANE: ( into phone ) No. It wasn't just the speech the same thing happened with this guy. I have passed some line some place. I am beginning to repel people I'm trying to seduce.
AARON: ( agreeably ) He must have been great-looking, right?
JANE: Why do you say that?
AARON: Because nobody invites a bad- looking idiot to their bedroom. She smiles.
AARON: Okay. Let's do me.
JANE: Okay. I feel like I'm slipping but do people who are actually slipping feel that way or is it always the really good people who are moving up who invariably think they're slipping because their standards are so high?
AARON: Okay. I feel like I'm slipping but do people who are actually slipping feel that way or is it always the really good people who are moving up who invariably think they're slipping because their standards are so high?
JANE: This conversation is not worthy of you.
AARON: I'd give anything if that were true.
JANE: ( laughing ) Good night.
AARON: Wouldn't this be a great world if insecurity and desperation made us more attractive? If needy were a Call if you get weird.
JANE: Call if you get weird.
JANE: ( answering ) I was just thinking it was the shortest phone conversation we ever had.
TOM: I never told you the reason I was telling you everything for.
JANE: ( pleasantly surprised ON TOM Those audition tapes I sent out. I've been hired by your network for the Washington bureau. So I'll probably see you at work. Sorry. Jane is rocked and soured.
ON TOM: Those audition tapes I sent out. I've been hired by your network for the Washington bureau. So I'll probably see you at work. Sorry. Jane is rocked and soured.
TOM: Those audition tapes I sent out. I've been hired by your network for the Washington bureau. So I'll probably see you at work. Sorry. Jane is rocked and soured.
JANE: EXT. WASHINGTON D.C. STREET - MORNING Jane and Aaron walking to work agitated.
AARON: They didn't hire Peter Stiller from the Times and he had a great audition tape.
JANE: You want to start going over who they could have gotten? They can't take on people like this for network news. For God's sake. What's going on?
ERNIE: Any particular area you feel strongest in?
TOM: To be honest, I was best at anchor. Ernie gives him a long look is he kidding?
ERNIE: Why don't you take a few days observing the system? Then we'll put you on general assignment.
JANE: ( consulting notes ) Go back to 316, Bobbie. The sound bite in the cab it starts, 'I don't know how I'll feel.'
BOBBIE: We could.
JANE: ( interrupting ) Please, Bobbie, we're pushing. As Bobbie expertly reverses the tape, Tom's face appears in the glass doorway and then he enters the already crowded room Jane's eyes click to him briefly. She makes not a move to welcome him. He pauses, but is committed and tries to find a piece for himself against the wall.
TOM: They said I should observe the. Jane is distracted by the noise. Tom leaning over towards her.
TOM: They said it would be okay if.
JANE: ( incredulous ) We're working here!! You can stand over in the uh, uh, uh. She momentarily can't think of the word 'corner.' Then back to Bobbie:
JANE: Play back the last line.
BOBBIE: He said something about.
JANE: ( sharply ) Let me hear it! Bobbie, taking the sharp commands with ever increasing, yet still repressed resentment. The Assistant Director, BLAIR LITTON, enters the editing room. She is about 26 and every night since she got her job as Assistant Director she has been the first to crack under pressure.
BLAIR: We'll need it in ten minutes. We're putting it directly into. Jane holds up a finger of warning to Blair as she picks up a ringing phone and talks to Bobbie at the same time.
JANE: ( into phone ) Craig, just a second ( to Bobbie ) Let me hear it! Through much of this chaos we focus on:
TOM: Wedged into an uncomfortable position between two tape racks He is wide-eyed at this circus of tension and fear. His eyes dart around constantly trying to take in as much as he can, always returning with wonder to focus on Jane.
MERCENARY: ( voice over ) It's been a long time since I've seen my folks and all but.I don't expect any big-deal homecoming.
JANE: Stop there. I want to shoot a picture from a book I have in the office.
BLAIR: You don't have time. Not a chance.
JANE: ( into phone ) I'll be right down. It's right tight. She crosses out.
BLAIR: I've got to tell Ernie.because there isn't enough time.
JANE: Yes, there is. Blair leaves, as Jane gathers up her notes. She charges out leaving Tom awkwardly along with Bobbie.
TOM: I'm Tom Grunick. I started on General Assignment today. Bobbie stops the machine, turns in his chair and shakes hands. Then he smiles secretly and speaks his first full sentence.
BOBBIE: I don't think she's going to make it. Tom exits.
KLEIN: Okay, what about this? Here's a tough ethical one. Would you tell a source that you loved them just to get some information?
AARON: Me too.
GEORGE: Me too.
ERNIE: Me too.
JENNIFER: Jennifer didn't know there was an alternative. Jennifer laughs that laugh one always hopes beautiful women will laugh when one says something funny. Aaron smiles at her.
AARON: Jennifer didn't know there was an alternative. Jennifer laughs that laugh one always hopes beautiful women will laugh when one says something funny. Aaron smiles at her.
AARON: Here's one. They allow us to have cameras at an execution in Florida. Do you broadcast tape of the guy in the chair when they turn on the Why not?
KLEIN: Why not?
JENNIFER: Why not?
ERNIE: You bet.
GEORGE: You bet.
AARON: Nothing like wrestling with a moral dilemma is there? Blair enters the scene, Tom trailing several feet behind, continuing to monitor the budding deadline crises.
BLAIR: Excuse me, Ernie, we're several minutes to air and Jane's shooting an insert still for tonight's piece.
ERNIE: She knows how much time she has. Blair flashes a tortured smile panic is growing.
BLAIR: Okay. I just wanted you to know.
AARON: What is she shooting?
BLAIR: Norman Rockwell's 'Homecoming.'
AARON: ( thinks then ) Oh, that's nice. ( walking away ) We'll need some new lines.
JANE: Okay, Bobbie, just a two-second dissolve to the Rockwell.
BOBBIE: Should I.
JANE: ( interrupting ) Just a two-second dissolve.
BLAIR: ( hurting ) Oh, Jesus, we have three minutes. Why do you do this to me. Is it because I won an award?
AARON: Norman Rockwell's enduring portrait of a Homecoming The return of a fighting man has always been one of the more moving ceremonies of war. Tearful women, proud men, excited children. But J.D. Singer was right his homecoming was no big deal.
BLAIR: We have a minute and a half. It's my responsibility to tell them we won't be ready.
JANE: Uh-uh. We're be ready. Blair glances frantically at her watch.
BLAIR: In 84 seconds?
ON CLOCK: Sweeping from 28 minutes to 84 seconds from deadline. Aaron walks in, Jane looks up.
JANE: ( hopefully ) Nine seconds.
AARON: Eleven and a half.
JANE: Oh, God. Back it, Bobbie Bobbie?
BLAIR: You're saying 'Oh, God." They are going to go to up and the screen will be black they're going to go to black because we're not there. How about careers, huh? How about careers?
ON CLOCK: 42 seconds away.
BLAIR: We're not going to make it. Bobbie makes a small bobble Jane giving the merest evidence of the strain, scratching her face repeatedly.
BOBBIE: ( unravelling ) Whoops?!? Whoops?!? No, please. no, ooh, ahhh, ohhh.
BLAIR: ( unravelling ) Whoops?!? Whoops?!? No, please. no, ooh, ahhh, ohhh.
AARON: Shit, shit, shit.
TOM: ( caught up ) You're almost there, you can do it can do can do. And as the pitch reaches its zenith, 27 seconds left. Bobbie hands the tape to Blair.
BOBBIE: INT. NEWSROOM - NIGHT Blair hikes up her skirt and takes off.
VARIOUS SHOTS: Our "chase scene" as Blair soars through the newsroom, leaping a chair smoothly, smashing her leg against a table in full flight, the adrenaline deadening the pain she arrives at a waiting elevator uses a key dangling from her neck to unlock it. jumps nervously during the ride and now, in FULL EXTENDED FLIGHT, barrels down the long corridor heading to the control room where she arrives; slamming the tape into a technician's hand even as it is introduced on the air.
BLAIR: I was a little nervous there for a minute.
AARON: Oh, come on tell us another.
ON MONITOR: The end of the piece the Rockwell painting giving way to the mercenary's actual homecoming which matches the portrait. The irony works nicely. The network anchorman comes up for his close. BILL RORISH, 50 years old and able to flutter much younger pulses. He is able and experienced a reporter who has become a journalistic king.
BILL: ( on monitor, smiling ) Bill Rorish.Thank you.Good night.
JENNIFER: Look at that smile. Oh, that was good and oh my, Bill smiled he liked it.
AARON: He loved it. Big smile. He gives Jane a congratulatory sock in the shoulder which she returns Tom in the b.g. of the SHOT.
BLAIR: I haven't seen Bill smile like that in weeks. Ernie has walked a few steps to the office.
BLAIR: Ernie, you missed his close. He smiled. Thank you.Good night. She smiles.
ERNIE: I saw the smile good piece.
AARON: I'm gonna go look at it again. They leave Aaron waving to Tom who stands in the b.g. The others leave. Tom approaches Jane.
TOM: I'm sorry if I was in the way. It was totally impressive. Great piece.
JANE: ( somewhat formal ) You weren't. Thanks. How does it feel being here?
TOM: I can't believe I'm really here. No kidding. If you're through work now
JANE: No. Aaron and I go to Central America on Wednesday so I'm cramming.
TOM: I thought you were incredible in there. I know how much I have to learn. I'd really a lot appreciate it.if.
JANE: 'Really a lot appreciate it.'
TOM: You make me nervous. Anyway if I can pick your brain Jane grimaces at "pick your brain."
JANE: I can't help you, sorry. I'm not here to teach remedial reporting.
TOM: And it has nothing to do with the fact I left your room instead of staying Jane looks at him.
JANE: Oh, please. You're gonna have to understand something. This isn't personal. She exits.
AARON: I didn't sleep. They're giving me less and less air time. They don't think I'm at all anchor material.
JANE: If we don't get to their camp soon, we won't be able to tape the supplies coming in.
AARON: Last time Paul was sick they gave Connie the weekend news instead of me.
JANE: You spend too much time much too much worrying about that crap. Oh good. They have entered a clearing where supplies have been dropped, the Guerrillas already tearing apart boxes with army boots ANGLE ON A guerrilla soldier rubbing his shoeless foot. A pair of new boots sit alongside him. Jane's Cameraman prepares to shoot, saying in Spanish, then English:
ANGLE ON: A guerrilla soldier rubbing his shoeless foot. A pair of new boots sit alongside him. Jane's Cameraman prepares to shoot, saying in Spanish, then English:
CAMERAMAN: Put on the boot. Jane rushes into the scene incensed.
JANE: Stop! We are not here to stage the news. Wait and see what he does. Then to the totally confused soldier. Sir, you do whatever you want. It's your choice. By now there is a fair-sized cluster of armed men as well as the news team staring at the guerrilla, who is at loss as to what is expected. He looks to Jane, who can offer no help save her own determination not to interfere. Finally he puts on the boot.
JANE: ( to Cameraman ) He shoots the scene.
TOM: Okay, I'll meet the crew there then. Could you give me that address again? Great. Yes, it's good to finally be getting to work. Okay that's 17204? 1-7-2-0-4. Thanks.
CONCIERGE: It's only ten minutes if you prefer to walk. I'll look for you on the news tonight.
AARON: Thanks, you speak English very well Great news. He says they've been engaging the Sandinistas pretty regularly and that he'd be really surprised if we didn't take fire Jane reacts a flash of exhilaration. Aaron is amazed at her Look at her. If anything happens to me tell every woman I've ever dated I was talking about them at the end. That way they'll have to reevaluate me. Jane laughs out loud, attracting the Guerrillas' attention. Aaron repeats his speech in Spanish. The Guerrillas laugh.
AARON: Look at her. If anything happens to me tell every woman I've ever dated I was talking about them at the end. That way they'll have to reevaluate me. Jane laughs out loud, attracting the Guerrillas' attention. Aaron repeats his speech in Spanish. The Guerrillas laugh.
JANE: Let's tape.
CAMERAMAN: ( Spanish accent ) Much too dark. Black.
JANE: That's okay.
AARON: The first shots were fired not thirty seconds ago. The Contras feel they must be outnumbered this is so small a unit: that's a given. Still they hold their ground despite the fact that their weapons have been acting up misfiring or jamming. A new shipment of rifles is expected tomorrow all they got today were the shoes. There is the SOUND OF GUNFIRE.
JANE: ( to Cameraman ) ( to Aaron ) Great line at the end.
AARON: Did you shoot their boots?
JANE: Of course.
AARON: We can cut back at the end.
JANE: To the pan of the supplies boxes
AARON: Can you believe it? I just risked my life for a network that tests my face with focus groups.
REPORTER: I think he's coming out now.
TOM: ( to his crew ) They say he's coming out now. A surge.
TOM: ( to Reporter ) Is that him?
TOM'S CAMERAMAN: Tom checks his notes.
ON TOM: Standing alone and forlorn as his crew trots back.
CAMERAMAN: ( observing Tom ) What's wrong?
TOM: I had a lot of questions here. I missed the story.
CAMERAMAN: Don't worry, it's okay. I got a piece of his face.
JANE: Are you all packed and ready?
CAMERAMAN: The stuff in the dark is not good. Nobody wants news lit like that.
JANE: Will you just get packed? She waves him off then she walks several yards away, holding a knapsack in her hand. She takes off a brush and runs it through her hair opens a plastic case and takes out a travel toothbrush, brushes her teeth and rinses her mouth with water from her canteen. She puts everything back in place, then looks about, sobs for several beats. One of the Guerrillas hears her sobbing and enters the scene he stands a respectful distance away. Jane finishes, notices him, makes a face by way of explanation, and exits the scene feeling measurably better.
BLAIR: Great graphic, great graphic. Ernie ENTERS THE SCENE. He kisses Jane in greeting pats Aaron on the back.
ERNIE: You finally got a piece in a few minutes early and I hear Bill loved it. Jennifer gives Jane a mock pat on the back. I have somebody downstairs who one of the clerks brought in and vouches for. He says he has something to say about gays getting promotions at State. It can't hurt to tape him.
ON JANE: As she feels Tom staring at her turns and notices him for the first time.
TOM: How's it going?
JANE: How's it going?
TOM: Can I buy you dinner sometime soon?
JANE: ( thrown ) I just got back I don't know which end is up.
TOM: In the b.g. WE MAY HAVE NOTICED Bill Rorish on one monitor as he picks up the phone at his anchor desk, during the commercial There is a stillness in the Control Room as Jane speaks to the anchor man in New York who WE CAN VIEW on a monitor.
BLAIR: Jane! Bill Rorish wants to speak to you at the break. I never heard of him handing over compliments in the middle of the There is a stillness in the Control Room as Jane speaks to the anchor man in New York who WE CAN VIEW on a monitor.
ON MONITOR: We see Bill Rorish.
BILL: ( into phone ) ( into phone ) ( into phone ) Well, darling, if it gets any better than that, I'm going to have to bring you up here to New York.
JANE: ( into phone ) ( into phone ) Well, darling, if it gets any better than that, I'm going to have to bring you up here to New York.
BILL: ( into phone ) Well, darling, if it gets any better than that, I'm going to have to bring you up here to New York.
JANE: ( into phone ) Thanks. I just wish you'd kept the first twenty seconds. Blair cringes at Jane's blunt reply.
JANE: ( into phone ) But thanks.
BILL: ( over phone ) Well, the visual with the boots at the end was just perfect. Jane covers the mouthpiece and turns to Aaron.
JANE: God, he loved the boots. Aaron reaches happily for the phone.
JANE: ( into phone ) Aaron should be hearing this so I have an extra witness.
BILL: ( over phone ) Well, you always want to give the credit away, do you?
JANE: ( into phone ) No, I don't. He happens to deserve the credit. He's right here.
BILL: ( over phone ) I'll speak to you soon We see Rorish over the monitor. He hangs up.
JANE: ( to Aaron ) He had to read over some new copy. We see on the monitor that this is not so. It's a very eggy moment Aaron. Tom breaks the silence.
TOM: ( to the rescue ) Okay if I watch you tape that interview As he passes Jane he leans next to her and WE HEAR him WHISPER.
AARON: As he passes Jane he leans next to her and WE HEAR him WHISPER.
AARON: Please laugh so they think I'm not dying inside but have so much style I just said something funny. Jane does her part enormously well laughing with amusement. but her eyes blaze her friend has been needlessly humiliated. Blair wants desperately to be inside Aaron's joke.
BLAIR: What did he say?
JANE: ( as if still amused ) I'll never tell.
BUDDY: Could I see how I photograph?
CAMERAWOMAN: Huh? Sorry?
BUDDY: 'Cause for the interview they're going to use a screen and disguise me to protect my anonymity so could I see myself before that?
CAMERAWOMAN: The Camerawoman punches a button and immediately Buddy's image comes up on a standing monitor on the studio floor. He's not happy with the image but works at concealing his reaction gasping a bit of air trying to touch it. Aaron enters. Tom smiles a friendly smile which flusters Buddy momentarily. But again he almost manages to conceal his private rush. Buddy's internal drama is such he invariably finds himself covering up, fearful roomfuls of people will simultaneously guess his Aaron directs him behind a screen and looks at his notes.
AARON: It's Mr. Buddy Felton?
BUDDY: That's your full name?
AARON: That's your full name?
BUDDY: I might as well ask you the questions on tape. Is that all right?
AARON: I might as well ask you the questions on tape. Is that all right?
BUDDY: You worked at one time as Foreign Service Trainee in the State Department.
AARON: You worked at one time as Foreign Service Trainee in the State Department.
BUDDY: I was there two years and was promoted on merit nine times.
AARON: Eventually rising to.
BUDDY: Office Bimbo. No, I'm sorry. Aaron is having a hard enough day, He is visibly annoyed.
AARON: You're saying the fact that you're gay had something directly to do with your promotions?
AARON: Eventually rising to?
BUDDY: G.S. I don't know. I don't know numbers. Tom laughs. Aaron shoots him a look.
AARON: You're saying the fact that you're gay had something directly to do with your promotions?
BUDDY: I don't like the word gay.
AARON: Which would you prefer?
BUDDY: Ravenous homosexual.
AARON: Stop the tape, okay. Forget it, Ellen. Let's call security and get him out. As Aaron walks out Tom is momentarily fixed on the sight of Buddy walking in small circles giving himself a talking to.
BUDDY: ( self flagellating ) Great time to act out, Buddy. You won't be happy until you turn the whole world off. He notices Tom.
BUDDY: They're not really going to call security are they?
TOM: No, I don't think so.
BUDDY: How do I get out of here?
TOM: Follow me.
BUDDY: ( dazzled ) You talked me into it.
GUARD: Oh, you're the gay guy. I was just coming to find you.
BUDDY: I'm leaving.
TOM: ( to Guard ) It's okay.
BUDDY: Tom turns. Buddy talks rather quickly He cares very much about leaving Tom with the right impression. The last words of his speech he hadn't expected to say.
TOM: Oh, sure. Okay. His heart racing, Buddy attempts casual matter-of-factness.
BUDDY: Is there a regular bar around here?
TOM: I've been doing some morning show stuff, but mostly radio that doesn't bother me. I'm in no rush for anything. It's just the snotty attitude, even if I have it coming, it's still.
BUDDY: Bad manners.
TOM: Yes. That's right.
BUDDY: I know.I mean you didn't do anything special for me tonight. You just had what I think are good manners, decency. And it really makes me want to be nice back and it has nothing to do with any homosexual thing. Because I don't know if you've homosexual or not and you're not, are you?
TOM: One's enough. Tom signals for the check. I wasn't doing anything.
BUDDY: One's enough. Tom signals for the check. I wasn't doing anything.
TOM: I really have to go.
BUDDY: Okay. At least let me show my appreciation. The Secretary of Labor is going to be indicted on Wednesday. For the graft thing he supposedly did before he was appointed.
TOM: Yes, it's true. They're going to make it public Wednesday but isn't it a big deal for you to have it a day and a half early?
BUDDY: Yes, it's true. They're going to make it public Wednesday but isn't it a big deal for you to have it a day and a half early?
TOM: Yes. How do you know?
BUDDY: ( shrugs ) My roommate's very social somebody from Justice was over and.I always hear things before they happen. Hey, and from now on, so do you.
GEORGE: I'm virtually certain it's not true. He may be indicted eventually, but I don't think it will be this month.
ERNIE: ( to Tom ) You want to be alone with me tell me your source?
TOM: If I told you I'm not sure it would totally convince you, but I totally believe the guy.
GEORGE: ( insufferable ) Labor is my Department I can't conform it and my contacts go very So if it's true I'm terrific, It's not even a close call. Of course we can't go with it.
TOM: So if it's true I'm terrific, It's not even a close call. Of course we can't go with it.
ERNIE: It's not even a close call. Of course we can't go with it.
BOBBIE: Do you want him all the way to the No stop where he's all besieged.
JANE: No stop where he's all besieged.
BOBBIE: ( to Bobbie ) Right there, Bobbie. Tom enters.
JANE: ( to Bobbie ) Right there, Bobbie. Tom enters.
TOM: So he was indicted?
JANE: We were right not to go with it.
GEORGE: We were right not to go with it.
TOM: But I was right just somebody give it to me. I had a good story.
JANE: ( to George ) Give it to him so we can concentrate.
TOM: Ah, I don't want any credit. Bobbie and I serve anonymously. He pats Bobbie on the back. and exits.
BOBBIE: ( pausing in his work ) You know, I like Tom, because hi.
JANE: Bobbie, please.
BUDDY: .and the White House is hoping to keep a lid on it for a few days till they figure out what to do.
TOM: Thanks a lot, Buddy.
BUDDY: ( brushing it off ) Oh, please. So they were really impressed with you at work.
TOM: Not impressed exactly but a break in the clouds.
BUDDY: I see the change in you I see it.
TOM: ( to Jennifer ) So he bought this Peugeot sedan at a greatly reduced price while he was there in charge of the White House Advance Team.
JENNIFER: How come you're not chasing it down Look, I'm junior man and it's your beat.
TOM: Look, I'm junior man and it's your beat.
JENNIFER: Boy, that's nice.I wish we could all deal with each other like this. I'll check it. Anything I can do for you?
TOM: This is my first time at the White House. Is there any chance to look at where he works and the rest of it?
JENNIFER: I didn't have the guts to ask when I first came up. I'll get you a great tour.
JENNIFER: ( voice over; on TV set ) The President says it's not a violation but nonetheless White House sources say the full price will be paid for the Peugeot and new rules will put future bargain hunting off limits for Presidential Aides. This is Jennifer Mack at the White House. Tom and Buddy smile at each other. energized up.
BUDDY: Forgive me, but it really is intoxicating being a news source.
TOM: Nobody else had it.
BUDDY: I wish it were you giving the story.
TOM: That's okay.
BUDDY: What if we just don't tell them anything anymore unless they let you do the story?
TOM: No. Really.don't worry about it.
BUDDY: Okay. And look, in the future I can call you when I have news for you. Don't feel you have to spend time with me just to get the information. Well, that wasn't as hard to say as you thought, was it, Buddy?
TOM: What do you mean? You're one of the few people in this town I can talk Buddy puts his hand to his heart and makes a LOUD SOUND OF
BUDDY: The BARTENDER and some nearby patrons turn and look. Tom shifts with discomfort.
TOM: Hey, Buddy, don't do that anymore.
BUDDY: ( simply ) INT. WASHINGTON BUREAU - NIGHT Jane waiting for an elevator. It comes and she steps on just as Tom clearly excited comes around the bend from Ernie's office calling for her. He goes to the stairs.
JANE: Hi, how are you? She keeps moving Tom spinning after her.
TOM: Wait I need you. She stops.
TOM: I've got another story.
JANE: Some public official skipped a week on his Christmas Club?
TOM: The House Armed Service Committee has a secret report which says that the General Stillwell tank the Army has dumped a fortune into plain won't work. I have it cold, confirmed. They have five million dollars in this thing already.
JANE: Okay, billion.right, of course. They told me I could have any producer I wanted and I want you. As Tom savors the moment.
TOM: Okay, billion.right, of course. They told me I could have any producer I wanted and I want you. As Tom savors the moment.
TOM: ( voice over ) One source referred to it as a five billion dollar metal sculpture to ugly to look at and too big to bury.
AARON: ( to Jane ) You write this?
JANE: I write for you sometimes.
AARON: Not because you have to.
ON MONITOR: We SEE a General walking away from Tom.
TOM: ( voice over ) General Elton McGuire is in charge of the weapon system.
GENERAL: I've been in the Army twenty-seven years so I'll let the Army ask the questions, not you.
TOM: General, I don't want to bother you anymore or your family. But tomorrow there will be a mob of me back here so, if you have anything to say, why not say it now, sir, the way you want?
ON TOM: He is a study. Looking at himself and though it's far from his first time on television it's the first time he's seen himself doing serious work and, by all appearances, doing it well. As the General answers in the b.g.
BLAIR: I think it's great of us to have left in what you said just great of us. Tom smiles modestly.
AARON: Yeah, let's never forget. We're the real story. Not them. Tom and Jane look over then Tom looks to Jane for a verdict. In the b.g., the news goes to a commercial.
JANE: Yeah, I know, I went back and forth on it.
BLAIR: I liked it. He's not afraid to be Ernie ENTERS THE SCENE with his fourteen-year-old DAUGHTER in tow. He approaches Tom.
ERNIE: My youngest wanted to meet you. This is Ellie.
TOM: Hi, Ellie.
ERNIE: You should be honored she never cares about meeting anyone here. But she liked you on television just now.
AARON: ( entering scene ) Hi, Ellie remember me?
ELLIE: I'm sorry from where?
AARON: I've been to your house a lot.
ERNIE: ( helping ) And Aaron went on that fourteen day raft trip with us last year.
ELLIE: ( vaguely ) Oh yes hi.
TOM: ( into phone ) Hi, Dad.Did you see it? Great I'll send you a tape.I'm sorry I haven't called. Things were a little bumpy for a while. It's not important. I'm fine now. ( what he's been Hey, Dad I just may be able to do this job.Well, I'm glad you were sure.
BLAIR: I don't know why we have to feel defensive about it. Newspapers are in business to make money why not us? Aaron looks at her in amazement.
BLAIR: They criticize us for supposedly pandering while they run WINGO Exactly right. Excuse me. I'm paid to mix. Blair and Aaron laugh appreciatively as he walks off to another Goodbye, Paul.
BLAIR: Goodbye, Paul.
AARON: Take care, Paul. It takes a certain kind of courage for you to say that in front of the President of the News Division.
BLAIR: You think anyone who's proud of the work we do is an ass kisser.
AARON: No. I think anyone who puckers their lips and presses it against his boss' buttocks and then smooches is an ass My gosh, and for a while there, I was attracted to you. She walks off.
BLAIR: My gosh, and for a while there, I was attracted to you. She walks off.
AARON: Wait a minute that changes ON JANE At the bar getting a drink. Jennifer ENTERS THE SCENE. and leads Jane down the hall until they are standing alone.
ON JANE: At the bar getting a drink. Jennifer ENTERS THE SCENE. and leads Jane down the hall until they are standing alone.
JENNIFER: This is very awkward.
JANE: Go ahead what?
JENNIFER: Ummm it's dumb dorm stuff but I see Tom around you a lot and this is such a small office and I'd like to see him outside of work, unless there's some reason for you to mind. in which case I just won't do anything.
JANE: God Almighty Whew. Do I mind? Why do I mind? I do mind. What a shock I don't have a right to. I don't think I like him. I know I don't respect him.So what am I talking about what am I saying to you?
JENNIFER: You're saying stay away from him.
JANE: ( stupefied ) I can't be. She blinks in wonder.
JENNIFER: We don't have to settle this definitively right now. Jennifer moves toward the drinking table Jane, unsteadied by the dose of self-revelation, moves towards Aaron's circle and scratches his back in friendship. Tom approaches an she moves off not wanting to deal with him. She takes a few breaths as she keeps walking. We HEAR snatches of PARTY CONVERSATIONS, i.e:
GEORGE WELN: Tell me one person who ever left television news to work on a She moves on; Tom still following.
ERNIE'S WIFE: ( holding Paul's arm ) I felt so proud when he turned down News Vice President so we could stay here. Suddenly, after all these years, we have a life. Jane turns sees that Tom is still looking at her from a few feet away.
JANE: ( badly ) Hi, Tom. She stands there, genuinely frightened. She must deal with him now. He crosses to her.
TOM: It's the firs time I've seen you dressed like this. You look so clean and pretty.
JANE: What do you mean clean?
TOM: At work there's always this sort of film over you.
JANE: Well, thumps like me leave appearance to guys like you.
TOM: You're great at taking the edge off a good time. Jane starts twitching. She pauses holds a hand lightly on his arm to steady herself.
TOM: You okay?
JANE: Yes. Just don't say anything mean for a while. Thanks. She meets his gaze for an instant and, in that instant, loses control for the first time in her memory. She looks strange as she retreats from this glimpse of upheaval.
JANE: I've got to find someone. It's important. Excuse me. She walks away.
ERNIE: I had the strangest thing happen yesterday. Anne and I have been married what? Thirty-six years. Everything fine two days after the promotion came through, I was checking myself in the mirror and she was making a face at me behind my back. So yesterday I looked in the mirror and she was doing it again.
AARON: You didn't say anything to her? He shakes his head.
ERNIE: My instincts tell me not to. Annie comes up.
ANNE: The office is phoning, honey. He EXITS SCENE as Anne watches him go.
ANNE: I hope he moves that fast when it's me on the line.
ON JANE: As she passes a chair with an afghan shawl on the back she picks it up and wraps it around herself, a bit chilled. She sees Jennifer on the stairs and moves toward her calling in a too loud, anxiety-ridden voice as she goes.
JANE: Jennifer. Hey, Jennifer.
ON STAIRCASE: Jennifer turning as Jane whips up the stairs.
JANE: Forget what I said you do whatever you want to with him. She pushes at Jennifer a little.
JENNIFER: Well, there's nothing I'm going to do right this second. Jane pushes her again.
JENNIFER: But it's a party, right? Jane smiles back feigning female bonding Jennifer goes back down the steps and crosses to Tom.
FULL SCENE: Aaron takes in Jane, who is taking in Jennifer and Tom then Aaron begins to sense a new dynamic in the room as Ernie re-enters and huddles briefly with Paul. The News President is intent. The two of them walk over to Tom and Jennifer. We PICK UP just a few words:
ERNIE: This would be a good time to tap that source of yours. He could have an angle or something.
ERNIE: ( to Jane ) We want you to exec produce a Special Report.
JANE: Aaron has come over to join them now in time to HEAR.
ERNIE: A Libyan plane shot up one of our bases in Egypt. It's all still Let's figure out the field.
JANE: Let's figure out the field.
ERNIE: Unfortunately, since Paul's here, he's made out the assignments. Jennifer at the White House. George at the Pentagon.Martin at State.and we need an anchor since Rorish is in his boat, so we're gonna do the whole report this afternoon from here.with Tom.
AARON: That's it. I resign as of now.
ERNIE: ( to Aaron ) Stop it.
AARON: I'll tell you what. I'll stay if Tom knows how to spell Gaddafi.
JANE: Ernie, as much as I like you, I think I have to tell Paul what I think, because this is really sort of obscenely stupid.
ERNIE: Jane, if you want to, go ahead. I don't disagree with you. Jane moves quickly off, awed at the prospect of taking on the big boss.
ON JANE: As she moves past Tom who is talking on the phone, eventually catching up with Paul. In the b.g. Tom has just HEARD the "BEEP" of an ANSWERING MACHINE.
TOM: Hello, Buddy. It's 1:35 and this is Tom. You can reach me at the office. It's important. I can use a little help. Jane, because of the proximity to Tom is speaking in whispered Tom isn't ready for the job you're about to hand him. Not near ready. Not by the longest shot. Aaron's spent six weeks in Tripoli, he's interviewed Gaddafi he reported on the Eight-one story. I think he's essential to do the job we're capable of and I think it's my responsibility to tell you that.
JANE: Tom isn't ready for the job you're about to hand him. Not near ready. Not by the longest shot. Aaron's spent six weeks in Tripoli, he's interviewed Gaddafi he reported on the Eight-one story. I think he's essential to do the job we're capable of and I think it's my responsibility to tell you that.
PAUL: Okay, that's your opinion. I don't agree.
JANE: It's not opinion.
PAUL: You're just absolutely right and I'm absolutely wrong? She nods.
PAUL: It must be nice to always believe you know better. To think you're always the smartest person in the No, it's awful. Oh my, it's awful.
JANE: ( from her depths ) No, it's awful. Oh my, it's awful.
JANE: ( turning to leave ) We'd better get moving. As they move out. Jane goes to Aaron. He moves with her towards the door.
AARON: What happened?
JANE: I'll tell you later where you going to watch from?
AARON: I'll come by your place, right after.drink, take pills. Love you. She runs out the door. Aaron turns mean and mocks Jane's last words screwing up his face in a savage burlesque.
JANE: I'll come by your place, right after.drink, take pills. Love you. She runs out the door. Aaron turns mean and mocks Jane's last words screwing up his face in a savage burlesque.
AARON: Yeah, love you, too.
JANE: Jane looks over at him there's no question he's just told the truth.
TOM: Jane looks over at him there's no question he's just told the truth.
JANE: Tell George and Jessica to try and cover everything without Tom having to ask additional And Bobbie says.
BLAIR: And Bobbie says.
JANE: Did you hear what I just said do you have that? Take a breath.
BLAIR: ( a breath, then ) In the b.g. Tom has exited his office and looks about waiting for some indication as to what to do next.
JANE: And the most important thing make sure his earpiece works, have back-ups ready. That's never been more vital. He must be able to hear me at every second and clearly. Jane sees him. She moves across the room takes Tom by the We have twenty minutes you can wait in the studio. Tom coughs nervously into his hand and takes a pen from a nearby desk, clips it into his inside pocket and walks off.
JANE: We have twenty minutes you can wait in the studio. Tom coughs nervously into his hand and takes a pen from a nearby desk, clips it into his inside pocket and walks off.
JANE: Put in the radar plane that spotted them to begin with.
GRAPHIC ARTIST: We have no pictures on file.
JANE: I can't draw but this is a rough idea. She uses the stylus from the ELECTRONIC PAINT MACHINE to outline an American Air Force E-2C Hawkeyes Radar Plane. Her work is INT. AARON'S APARTMENT - DAY He has a glass in hand some chips on the table with a bottle of wine as he selects a Cassette Desk to play. He picks a French song looks at some of his books. He might even read. He is feigning disinterest for an audience of no one. He SINGS ALONG with the RECORD in perfect French.
GUARD: I have to check first.
BUDDY: ( a bit frantic ) Well, then check but hurry There he is!!! Buddy runs the length of the hallway to Tom's aide despite Tom's gestures to slow down.
BUDDY: Is everything all right?
TOM: Yes. You didn't have to come here. It's just that I'm going to anchor this special report on this Libyan Yes, stop! I wondered if you could find out anything about what's What's wrong?
BUDDY: ( delighted ) ( amused despite Yes, stop! I wondered if you could find out anything about what's ( on Buddy's reaction ) What's wrong?
TOM: ( amused despite Yes, stop! I wondered if you could find out anything about what's ( on Buddy's reaction ) What's wrong?
BUDDY: I broke up with my roommate He was really the magnet for everyone who knew anything.
TOM: Look, I can start up with him again if you really.
BUDDY: Look, I can start up with him again if you really.
TOM: No. I'm doing fine.Look. Tom stands there a man at home in this media castle.
BUDDY: Good. He's on the world's longest ego trip, let him take it alone.
TOM: Hey, okay. Look Buddy I've got to go to work.
BUDDY: ( to Tom ) .good-bye then.
TOM: I'll speak to you.
BUDDY: Well, who knows. Just let m tell you what my favorite teacher ever, told me 'Don't be afraid to be He leans forward, gives Tom a quick embrace, a small kiss on the cheek. Tom turns and walks off down the hallway to meet his immediate destiny as Buddy looks on.
BLAIR: ( sotto to Jane ) Executive Producer wow. Jane looks at her and, in a moment of atypical merriment, does a choking gesture at her own throat as the monitors flash a graphic reading: SPECIAL REPORT. We HEAR an ANNOUNCER'S VOICE say, "This is a Special Report from."
JANE: You hear me, Tom? Tom? Tom? Damn it.He can't hear me. I told you if there was one thing. Tom's VOICE on speakers.
TOM: ( voice over; relaxed ) I can hear you. I was just teasing. Gulping the air in relief, she slumps nonetheless impressed by the macho cool as: Tom smiles towards her then poises himself just as the Announcer's last words clear.
ANNOUNCER'S VOICE: ( voice over ) .in Washington, Tom Grunick. He begins his report. He seems authoritative, compelling, even in a low key way. We trust him.
TOM: Good afternoon. A Libyan fighter plane attacked a United States Military Installation early this morning and was, itself, shot down by American F-14 Interceptors. Another monitor shows the Graphic running. In the b.g. two men approaches Paul. They look out of place, decidedly non-business like.
MAN ONE: Mr. Moore, I'm Marvin Usher and this is my brother, Stuart.
PAUL: Not now!!! The Libyan Missile destroyed an Army Warehouse which, just thirty minutes earlier, had been crowded with servicemen. No one was injured.
TOM: The Libyan Missile destroyed an Army Warehouse which, just thirty minutes earlier, had been crowded with servicemen. No one was injured.
AARON: ( SINGING LOUDLY ) And I can read while I sing. He picks up the television remote-control device an puts the television on, the SOUND OFF.
ON TV: We SEE the graphic of the Libyan plane's flight route, its missile firing the U.S. planes taking off and the shooting down of the Mirage jet. At one point Aaron lowering the MUSIC and raising the TV SOUND hearing Tom.
TOM'S VOICE: ( voice over ) The heat seeking missile virtually disintegrated the plane on. Aaron turns down the TV SOUND and turns up the MUSIC.
JANE: George, you're ready.
GEORGE: ( voice over ) Should I cover everything or should I save something for Tom to ask about?
JANE: Cover everything! George nods.
JANE: ( hitting Tom's button ) We're going to George. Say 'the Joint Chiefs are meeting we have George Weln at the Pentagon'.
ON TOM: George Weln is at the Pentagon where the attack launched by the lone Libyan pilot has resulted in a massive movement of military might.
TOM: George Weln is at the Pentagon where the attack launched by the lone Libyan pilot has resulted in a massive movement of military might.
AARON: A lot of alliteration from anxious anchors placed in powerful posts. He picks up the phone.
BLAIR: It's Aaron.
JANE: I think the pilot that shot down the Libyan in 1981 is stationed right here. Maybe you could get him and maybe Tom should say that our F-14 is one of the hardest planes to fly. They're nicknamed 'Tomcats'.
AARON: I think the pilot that shot down the Libyan in 1981 is stationed right here. Maybe you could get him and maybe Tom should say that our F-14 is one of the hardest planes to fly. They're nicknamed 'Tomcats'.
JANE: ( to Tom ) The F-14 is one of the most difficult planes to master. ( remembering ) Oh, you call them 'Tomcats' and in the 70's the first crop had a number of crashes.
TOM: George, isn't the F-14 Tomcat one of the most difficult machines for a pilot to master?
GEORGE: I think you're right it's certainly one of our hottest planes.
AARON: I say it here it comes out there. He giggles.
TOM: ( voice over ) There was trouble with them in the early days back in the 70's. Aaron dials again. As we SEE Jennifer standing at the White House.
AARON: ( into phone ) Me again. Hi. Listen Gaddafi doesn't foam at the mouth or anything. When you speak to him he's not at all nuts. He seems like a leader very impressive, self-control.that's what's so strange.
ON JANE: Right and we have the '81 pilot on the way in Nobody else will have him.
JANE: Right and we have the '81 pilot on the way in Nobody else will have him.
AARON: ( voice over ) You're welcome. Sow how does it feel to.I know you gotta go Me too. We're very busy here. He hangs up LONG SHOT. Aaron with his remote controls. The picture switches back to Tom. He turns UP the VOLUME.
TOM: ( voice over ) .outlaw nation but strangely those who have interviewed Gaddafi find him, in a phrase we like to use in this country, very 'presidential'.
AARON: Nice, Jane.
JANE: ( into phone ) Just a minute. Her finger hits the "Tom" button.
JANE: ( to Tom ) To State for the message from Libya, then you'll have the carrier pilot from the Sidra in time to. ( a sudden shriek ) What? No!
ON TOM: Jolted by the shriek in his earpiece but nonetheless continuing.
JANE: We only have ten minutes left how can you talk to me about parking problems? No, not you'll try.you'll do it do it or I'll fry your fat ass, Estelle. Good-bye. As she BANGS the PHONE down. Paul comments sotto to Ernie.
PAUL: ( sotto ) I had no idea she was this good.
JANE: ( hitting Tom's button ) Fill for a second.
TOM: ( fluidly ) The latest message seems to indicate that the Libyan pilot was acting on his own without authority from anyone ( into camera directly ) In other words, I think we're okay.
TOM: .So, Commander, it must have been a bit tougher today shooting down the French-made Mirage Jet. The one you got was a SU-22.etc. And NOW ALL IS OBSCURED EXCEPT THE ANCHOR'S EARS, the ear piece and the RED LIGHT on the CAMERA and beyond. almost an abstract INT. CONTROL ROOM - DAY .Once again: The Libyan Government has disavowed any prior knowledge of the flight. This has been Tom Grunick reporting from Washington. The special report ended, Jane breathes a breath she and Blair momentarily grasp hands. The first talk concerns Tom.
TOM'S VOICE: .Once again: The Libyan Government has disavowed any prior knowledge of the flight. This has been Tom Grunick reporting from Washington. The special report ended, Jane breathes a breath she and Blair momentarily grasp hands. The first talk concerns Tom.
PAUL: He was brilliant. I've never been as proud of one of my decisions.
ERNIE: ( calls back to Jane ) Great work, Jane, really You know? She nods. totally depleted.
JANE: Well, there were no major gaffs anyway. Ernie scoffs in her direction.
JANE: Thanks, everybody. She exits the scene.
PAUL: ( to the Usher brothers ) This was important for Tom there's that bonding thing that happens with the public and an anchorman during a crisis. It's not the conventions anymore; it's this kind of moment. Tom enters. He is exuberant.
PAUL: ( to Tom ) What a baptismal. Congratulations.
TOM: Thanks. With all the help you get, it's sure easier than local. Paul and Ernie exchange a glance. Where's Jane? I'm still juiced. Ernie points off. as Tom exits. The Usher brothers hover.
ERNIE: ( to the Usher brothers ) Can I help you?
MARVIN: We're here to play the new news theme.
ERNIE: New theme? You don't need me for this.
PAUL: Stay. Why should I be the only one to feel silly?
MAN ONE: We need a synthesizer but this will give you an idea.
PAUL: Go ahead. Wasn't he great?
ERNIE: It worked. Man Two has the keyboard out and begins playing the prospective news theme: a suite meant to have majesty and drive, a towering composition the effect of it somewhat lessened by the fact that the two men VOCALIZE OTHER INSTRUMENTS over the keyboard.
TOM: You're an amazing woman. What a feeling having you inside my head.
JANE: ( a bit thrown ) Yeah. It was an unusual place to be.
TOM: Indescribable you knew just when to feed me the next thing, just a split second before I needed it. There was a rhythm we got into, like great sex. Jane looks at him and nods slightly an unconscious spasm of You have to celebrate with me, don't you? Everybody's going to that bar on the corner, 'Caps.'
TOM: You have to celebrate with me, don't you? Everybody's going to that bar on the corner, 'Caps.'
JANE: I'm going over to Aaron's. Maybe I'll hoop up with all of you later. How long do you think you'll be there? Tom indicates that it's an impossible question to answer. They enters the elevator.
TOM: It's tempting to ask you how you think I did. No. I'm enjoying myself. Take it easy. He starts across the street.
JANE: ( trying to be casual ) Maybe I'll see you over there. Indicates Bar.
TOM: You'll never show up. He starts across the street then turns and calls to her.
TOM: I'll wait for you till seven.
JANE: I'll wait for you till seven.
TOM: I'll wait for you till seven.
JANE: ( shouting back ) Tom races to catch up with the others Jane in the distant b.g. pauses a beat before walking off in the opposite direction. Jane moving quickly along. SOUND OF MEN VOCALIZING NEWS THEME comes UP AND continues EXT. AARON'S APARTMENT - EARLY EVENING As Jane approaches and is surprised to find him sitting on the stoop outside.
ON AARON: Happy to see her, rising fairly soberly to his feet. He APPLAUDS as she comes toward him.
JANE: Really? It was good. He nods and APPLAUDS some more.
JANE: Your calling in that information you're the classiest guy I know. He waves her off. And sits down on the stoop.
AARON: It was strange to watch him. What's the next step? Lip synching? She sits a step or two above him, waiting to gauge his mood.
AARON: I've been doing some of the most important thinking of my life. I wonder if this is the right time to tell you about it. She steals a glance at her watch.
JANE: Well, whatever you think.
AARON: I figured out exactly why it is I'm so hung up on getting a chance at weekend anchor.It's because if I do that well, they'll pay me more, treat me great and my life will be better. That's why.
JANE: Sounds like you may be on to something.
AARON: Which means I'm at their mercy and who wants that?.I'm not going to tell you where this thought led me. Anyway, well, why not tell you? it's a happy thing. In the middle of all this I start to think about something that does nothing but make me feel good and makes immediate sense and that's you .And I'll stop here but, Jane, I'd give anything if you were two people so I could call up the one who's my friend and tell her about the one I'm in I.I don't think I should go any further. Come on I'll walk you to the corner. He tales her by the arm and leads her to the corner.
JANE: You know you've had a strange day. I'd sleep on all these things you've been thinking.
AARON: Absolutely.You go have a good time. You have some place to go?
JANE: He grabs her and hugs her exuberantly takes her face in his hands and kisses her full on the lips.
AARON: He grabs her and hugs her exuberantly takes her face in his hands and kisses her full on the lips.
AARON: Well, I felt something. He leaves her on the corner and walks back.
ON JANE: As the SOUND OF NEWS THEME VOCALIZING PICKS UP ONE MORE. Jane moving quickly, hailing a cab.
JANE: We're going to Caps Bar at Seventeenth and Vermont; Connecticut is clear on Sunday. take that over to Fifteenth, then around Vermont and we'll bypass the circle that way.if you don't go over forty we should catch mostly green lights. ON the DRIVER'S annoyed look.
JANE: Come on don't take it the wrong way. I just know about He hits the meter.
DRIVER: Great route. I never made anywhere near that fast before.
JANE: Thanks good driving
DRIVER: Thanks. Coming from you I appreciate it.
JANE: As she turns to enter the restaurant Tom and Jennifer exit. As they confront each other:
TOM: I didn't think you'd make it.
JANE: Well, I thought I'd check if all of you were still here. I'll just go in and join the gang and you two go on.
TOM: There's no gang in there We were the last ones.
JANE: Well, I'll go in and have a bite.
TOM: ( to Jennifer ) Jennifer, you want to have another Hey, I know how to have a burger by myself. I feel like a little solitude.
JANE: Hey, I know how to have a burger by myself. I feel like a little solitude.
JENNIFER: ( as they move off ) I sure know that feeling. Terrific work today.
JANE: ( too jock-like ) Right back to you.
TOM: Thanks for getting me through. He puts his hand behind her neck in an awkward gesture of camaraderie. She awkwardly disengages. waves and steps inside the door to the restaurant. standing there between the two sets of doors watching Tom and Jennifer walk away.
JENNIFER: ( intense shout ) Damn all you sons-of-bitches. Oh shit, you bastards. They finish. A beat, then:
JENNIFER: ON TOM AND JENNIFER Tom taken aback by the outburst from this woman he's just made love to.
TOM: No, it's okay.People say different things. They do.the plural threw She laughs.
JENNIFER: The last time I was with someone we went through this awful mutual disease questionnaire but I guess it beats getting paranoid the next day. Okay, I'll go first. I haven't.
TOM: ( stopping her ) It would never occur to me to worry at all about you. Jennifer is touched.
JENNIFER: You know something? I'm deeply complimented. Isn't it strange to be deeply complimented because the man you're with doesn't think you have a venereal disease?. Tom slides out of bed naked she moves quickly across the bed one outstretched hand reaching for his ass, a free even lusty sort of motion punctuated by her comment:
JENNIFER: Give me some of that. He dances away out of range liking the action, a stupid grin on his face.
TOM: Where's the bathroom?
JENNIFER: Through the closet. He opens the door and turns on the light in the closet.
JENNIFER: I converted a bedroom this stuff builds up. Wait till you've been doing this sixteen I'm not knocking it. It's a great solution. Not only the storage but you can see everything you have. Jennifer laughs he follows her gaze and sees himself in silhouette against the door his penis prominent in outline.
TOM: I'm not knocking it. It's a great solution. Not only the storage but you can see everything you have. Jennifer laughs he follows her gaze and sees himself in silhouette against the door his penis prominent in outline.
JENNIFER: Do you do bunny rabbits? Tom is enjoying himself immensely.
TOM: Isn't this a great date? We HEAR the SOUND OF SCRATCHING as we:
JANE: ( to herself ) God help me. People have begun to filter into the newsroom in the b.g.
AARON: Jesus, Jane. How long have you been here?
JANE: A long time. I was restless. Will you crack my neck? He starts massaging her neck as the phone rings. she lets it ring for a beat as Aaron works on her. As she picks up the receiver we HEAR a CRACK. She reacts to it at the same time she utters a greeting.
JANE: ( into phone ) ello. You sure they said the management meeting? ( hangs up; then They want me to be at the management meeting.
AARON: They're not that dumb, after all. He pats her on the back.
BLAIR: Do you know you're the second woman in network news history to produce?
JANE: ( though distracted ) No, I'm not. I'm the fourth. Joan Richmond. Pauline Fredericks got that credit once on a U.N. special and there's Susan Zirinsky.
PAUL: Anyway, they seem to be very serious about making me out eight million from the budget and that means massive firings. I'm doing everything I can. It's too early to make up a 'death list' but I just wanted you to be aware of the situation. We're also going to cover the Alaskan serial killer trial on a continuing basis. I'd like it done out of Washington which means we've got to get somebody on a plane for Anchorage. We can't fool around anymore.Jane. She looks up at him a bit sleepy-eyed. This is going to be high-profile on the Evening News who do you think? George Weln or Jennifer?
JANE: ( much, much too quickly ) The men look at her curiously. She repeats herself more INT. TOM'S OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON He has been reading from a respectable stack of mail Jane appears in his doorway. For the first time, we notice that she is woefully ba at at least one endeavor flirting.
JANE: Come on, I'll buy you a drink. There's a big thing over at the Italian embassy.
TOM: I'm not sure I'd be good company tonight.
JANE: ( self-conscious joke ) I'll be the judge of that.
JANE: It's much too soon for you to have this kind of buzz around you.
TOM: Do I have to stand here in the middle and meet them all?
JANE: I'll get you through. Move and smile. And smile and move. They start crossing the room he is moving now, making progress. But an EGYPTIAN BUSINESSMAN stops him.
EGYPTIAN BUSINESSMAN: Is it safe for me to fly home?
TOM: Yes. We're fine now.
JANE: AND SMILE. He smiles people smile back.
JANE: AND MOVE. ANGLE ON STAIR LANDING Where Aaron ( Pimm's Cut in hand a cucumber sticking out ) stands with Martin Klein. Martin is eating from a huge platter of appetizers.
MARTIN KLEIN: The Italians serve the second best things right after the Chinese.I could do an article comparing Embassy food.Gourmet free-loading.sell it anyplace. I'm sure not getting the Who the heck could that be?
AARON: Who the heck could that be?
ON AARON: And now he sees that it's Tom.
AARON: Is God testing me or something?
MARTIN KLEIN: Paul loves him. I heard him give him the most poetic compliment in his command. 'He's hot.' Sometimes groups of executives get together just to say that work back and forth.'He's hot, oh, she's hot. Oh, he's really hot.' Hot-hot-hot-hot-hot-hot-hot. And here we are.
AARON: Martin, you're not allowed to use the word 'we' or I'm moving.
MARTIN KLEIN: ( sudden thought ) Maybe Jane would like my food idea as a spot.Try the one in the middle. He moves off to intercept Jane as he stops her. Tom is stranded then sees Aaron and moves over to his side.
TOM: Hi, Aaron.What's doing?
AARON: Same old stuff. I'm watching a man who won three Overseas Press Awards pitch an hors d'oeuvre idea. A MAN stops and introduces himself to Tom shaking his hand:
TOM: You want to go out there get out of this for a second?
AARON: Why don't you lead? I'll just follow the flurry you cause. Tom turns the sharpness of the tone unsettles him.
TOM: What did I do to you?
AARON: You've made my dreams silly. Tom decides not to deal with the remark. He's jolted by the hostility. He leads the way out French Doors to a ground floor terrace, where Aaron joins him, closes the door and the two men stare at the party.
TOM: ( gesturing at the Heavy hitters. Aaron nods. They look inside.
AARON: ( several beats; then ) How you doing?
TOM: ( warming ) Great. Network news, Washington. I love it. What do you do when your real life exceeds your dreams?
AARON: Keep it to yourself.
TOM: You know the other day I really wanted your reaction to how we did with the Libyan report I was going to ask but I guess I feel a little intimidated with Oh, stop it. On Tom's reaction.
AARON: Oh, stop it. On Tom's reaction.
AARON: You can't talk about feeling intimidated when you're on top of the world. It's unseemly.
TOM: I'm not buying into any of that. I have a load to learn. I'm not going to act as if.
AARON: ( finishing for him ) You have the job you have. The sudden debate is important to Tom but it's moving too fast for him.
TOM: Shut up a second.
AARON: ( amiably ) Okay. Pretty petty party, isn't it, pal?
TOM: ( picking his words ) I made one rule for myself when this started and I realized I was going to take a lot from you people because of being from sports.
AARON: And the rule was.
TOM: Never to pretend to know more than I did.
AARON: Can you name all the members of the Okay, let's drop it. I didn't mean I'd take a test for you I mean if that came up in conversation I'd.
TOM: ( flustered ) Okay, let's drop it. I didn't mean I'd take a test for you I mean if that came up in conversation I'd.
AARON: We're conversing.Oh my, the names of the entire Cabinet has slipped my mind. What are they? Tom is getting pissed.
AARON: ( compromising ) Don't name them. Just tell me if you know.
TOM: Yes, Aaron. I know the names of the Cabinet.
AARON: A beat.
TOM: There are only ten. Aaron's suddenly a good deal happier damned if it isn't a little infectious.
AARON: There are only ten. Aaron's suddenly a good deal happier damned if it isn't a little infectious.
TOM: You're feeling good, aren't you?
AARON: ( sincerely ) I'm starting to. We may do the capitols of the states.
TOM: ( dry ) Fifty, right? Aaron almost smiles. Tom enters the party leaving the door open.
LONG SHOT: Aaron in the f.g. his BACK TO CAMERA. Beyond him Tom being approached. then joining Jane.
TOM: I'm so exhausted. Punchy. Sick tired. I can't think and I can't move. I'm just a dead lump of poured out Would you like to come up? Tom thinks then:
TOM: Maybe we could just sit here talk a little?
JANE: Okay. You didn't like the party, huh?
TOM: Too many smart people in one room it's not healthy. Jane's confused by this. She looks at him.
TOM: I'm going to have to do a story from beginning to end on my own.
JANE: Eventually. Does it have to be right now?
TOM: ( nodding ) Believe me, I wouldn't be doing this unless it was absolutely necessary. I have an idea for something.
JANE: I just read about it in a magazine and it affected me.
TOM: I just read about it in a magazine and it affected me.
JANE: Well, what is it?
TOM: If I tell you, can you manage not to put it down or tell me why it won't work or is in bad journalistic taste or anything like that?
JANE: ( broadly ) Yes, Tom I think I can manage. He turns towards her about to stick his chin out. Hesitates. I promise.
TOM: It's about women who are attacked by someone they know on a date. 'Date-rape,' that's the piece. Jane clamps a hand over her own mouth.
TOM: Okay good move. Keep it there. She continues to clamp her mouth shut as he exits the car, opens her door and then begins to half carry, half pull her out. She keeps her hand clamped over her mouth. Laughing from behind her door and runs for it.
ON TOM: His spirits lifted.
ON JANE: Behind the door, trying to hide the glow in her eyes.
JANE: ( uncertain ) Hello.Who is it?
TO: ( uncertain ) Hello.Who is it?
JANE: Hello.Who is it?
TOM: I'm not sure I dialed right Jane, yes. Tom? Tom, is that you? Is this Tom?
JANE: Jane, yes. Tom? Tom, is that you? Is this Tom?
TOM: I had to sleep fast so I took two allergy pills to help me.I'm sorry.Hey, you called me.
JANE: I had to sleep fast so I took two allergy pills to help me.I'm sorry.Hey, you called me.
TOM: It's not important.
JANE: Says who? Not important ha-ha-ha. I was dreaming Oh, no can't tell how embarrassing for me. What pills did you take? You sound more like someone on a general anesthetic. Maybe I'd better speak to you tomorrow.
TOM: What pills did you take? You sound more like someone on a general anesthetic. Maybe I'd better speak to you tomorrow.
JANE: Nooo. Is it your story?
TOM: No. Are you going to the Correspondents' Dinner on Saturday?
JANE: Why, you need me for the story?
TOM: No. Were you going to you?
JANE: Maybe I'll get off work. I'd like to go.
TOM: Maybe I'll get off work. I'd like to go.
JANE: Oh, good.
TOM: We can go together.
JANE: So you like me, huh?
TOM: I like you as much as I can like anyone who thinks I'm an asshole.
TOM: ( reading ) But cops on the street continue to view it as. Shit too long. But street cops say.that fits. That last cut work for you, Bobbie?
BOBBIE: Yes, and thanks for asking.
ON MONITOR: UNIFORMED COP What can you do? If a woman invites a man in and he says they uh, had sex and she says he raped her and then you find out they've been out together two, three times.how can you prove a crime?
UNIFORMED COP: What can you do? If a woman invites a man in and he says they uh, had sex and she says he raped her and then you find out they've been out together two, three times.how can you prove a crime?
YOUNG WOMAN: It will be a year next month since it happened.I never thought I'd talk about it outside of counseling.
ON NEWSROOM: As Aaron enters the scene.
AARON: He is shushed by every woman in the room, accepts this and takes up a position near Tom and Jane to watch them.
ON MONITOR: YOUNG WOMAN We'd gone out twice and I hadn't enjoyed myself that much but it gets to a point I don't know if you can appreciate this but where you don't want to sit home or be with your girlfriends and people had always been telling me that I was 'too picky.' I'm not. It's just you want to meet a nice guy.So anyways, it was that 'give-him-a-chance' thing. No, it wasn't. I was lonely. So we went to a movie and when he brought me home he said could he just come up and have one beer and then he'd go. How do you say 'no', to that? So first it was this wrestling match which was awful enough because it got to be really a fight.because I'm a modest person. then he ripped my clothes and he forced me to.make love. He stayed in my apartment and forced me more times he didn't leave until. ( she has started to cry ) I promised myself I wouldn't cry. It's just hard not to ( ruefully ) You sure have a sympathetic face. ( she cries a bit more ) .I was so sure I wouldn't do this but the whole thing messed me up maybe more than it should.
YOUNG WOMAN: We'd gone out twice and I hadn't enjoyed myself that much but it gets to a point I don't know if you can appreciate this but where you don't want to sit home or be with your girlfriends and people had always been telling me that I was 'too picky.' I'm not. It's just you want to meet a nice guy.So anyways, it was that 'give-him-a-chance' thing. No, it wasn't. I was lonely. So we went to a movie and when he brought me home he said could he just come up and have one beer and then he'd go. How do you say 'no', to that? So first it was this wrestling match which was awful enough because it got to be really a fight.because I'm a modest person. then he ripped my clothes and he forced me to.make love. He stayed in my apartment and forced me more times he didn't leave until. I promised myself I wouldn't cry. It's just hard not to You sure have a sympathetic face. .I was so sure I wouldn't do this but the whole thing messed me up maybe more than it should.
ON MONITOR: As the news piece cut to: Tom's face he turns clearing a tear from his eyes.
ON NEWSROOM: These watching struck perhaps embarrassed but riveted. Aaron is aghast. Aaron approaches the set.
AARON: Can I turn on the news for a second? .Oh, wait a minute. Sex Tears This must be the news. Tom stares daggers at him as a public official appears on the ON MONITOR I don't think you can overestimate it on any given Saturday night tens of thousands of women are being attacked and there isn't much they or we can do about it.
ON MONITOR: PUBLIC OFFICIAL I don't think you can overestimate it on any given Saturday night tens of thousands of women are being attacked and there isn't much they or we can do about it.
PUBLIC OFFICIAL: I don't think you can overestimate it on any given Saturday night tens of thousands of women are being attacked and there isn't much they or we can do about it.
TOM: ( on monitor ) The victims often remain too terrified to talk the police powerless and all the social welfare groups can finally do is monitor this epidemic of crime without punishment. This is Tom Grunick in Annandale, Virginia. As his piece concludes.
NEWSROOM: Tom continues to glare at Aaron.
AARON: I'm in a pissy mood. I'm sorry.
TOM: What's wrong with it?
AARON: Nothing. I think you really blew the lid off nookie. Blair moans with displeasure. Aaron exits scene. Others start to congratulate Tom on the piece in the b.g. on the:
MONITOR: We SEE frozen wilderness men digging in the ground clumps of people watching them work.
ON JANE: Probing her own ambivalence or, to be more accurate, working towards a positive stance.
JANE: ( to Tom ) Nice work. ( checks watch ) I've got to get a crew off the clock. She starts off Tom stopping her.
TOM: So what did you think?
JANE: It moved me. I did relate to it I really did. It was unusual for you to cut to yourself when you tear up and that might not have been my choice.but it's real and it got me.and I think a lot of the time I'm too conservative about that kind of stuff. Okay?
TOM: ( enormously pleased ) He walks back towards the area of the monitor.
ON MONITOR: Tomorrow the jury returns to this site as each day brings more revelations of horror, four more bodies now taken from the frozen earth.This is Jennifer Mack in Wota Hamlet, Alaska.
JENNIFER: Tomorrow the jury returns to this site as each day brings more revelations of horror, four more bodies now taken from the frozen earth.This is Jennifer Mack in Wota Hamlet, Alaska.
BLAIR: Ernie's been looking for you. As Aaron walks to his office.
ERNIE: Oh, I was just writing you a note. What do you say we take a walk?
AARON: ( puzzled ) EXT. WASHINGTON STREET - DAY Ernie is silent. He's having difficulty. Aaron is feeling knots form. Finally Ernie breaks his silence.
ERNIE: EXT. WASHINGTON STREET - DAY Ernie is silent. He's having difficulty. Aaron is feeling knots form. Finally Ernie breaks his silence.
ERNIE: I don't know if we have any younger man more respected in our operation than you.
AARON: Just tell me what's really going on. I think we know each other well enough for me to expect that.
ERNIE: ( agitated ) We know each other well enough for me to care how I put something to you which could wipe you out. So I will phrase things the way I think they should be phrased. All Wipe me out? Ernie sits on a bench.
AARON: Wipe me out? Ernie sits on a bench.
ERNIE: Anyway. I want you to think of this as.
AARON: Just blunt talk, okay? I'd really appreciate bluntness.
ERNIE: Upper management thinks you're dull. Aaron deflates.
ERNIE: Aaron, I've never seen them like this I think Paul's nervous about his own job and for some reason he thinks you only appeal to.
AARON: Wait. Bullshit me a little.I'm beginning to appreciate it.
ERNIE: I'm no suggesting the worst will happen.but someone with your brilliance gets nibbles about other jobs and maybe, the next time that happens, down the road you should look into it.
AARON: ( emotional ) Ah, damn the fucking jerks My, God. They want to fire me.
ERNIE: All I know is that they've got to fire a large number of people. and they're not going by seniority. There's a recklessness in the air. Do one thing to me? Get me one shot at anchoring the Weekend News they've never seen me do it. I think it could turn them around.
AARON: ( interrupting ) Do one thing to me? Get me one shot at anchoring the Weekend News they've never seen me do it. I think it could turn them around.
ERNIE: I could do it this Saturday everyone wants off for the Correspondents' Dinner. Aaron turns his spirit lifted by the unexpected ray of hope.
AARON: Do it then.
ERNIE: Please prepare carefully. This couldn't come at a better time.
AARON: Prepare what? You have Saturday's news handy?
ERNIE: It's been a while since you read the news I'll have somebody work with you. Just on superficial performance things. Several beats. Okay. I think I'd better be alone for a while.
AARON: Okay. I think I'd better be alone for a while.
ERNIE: I understand. I'll go with you.
AARON: INT. SMALL TELEVISION STUDIO - NIGHT Aaron is seated behind a desk some old news copy in his hand. An unmanned camera is pointing at him. Tom is standing a few feet further back studying him.
AARON: This is uncomfortable for me because, well, I don't mean it as a knock, but we approach this We sure do. I don't mean it as a knock either. Go ahead. I'll just say what I think and you can disregard it if you want.
TOM: We sure do. I don't mean it as a knock either. Go ahead. I'll just say what I think and you can disregard it if you want.
AARON: It just might not work for me because of our different approaches. Tom nods and gestures that he proceed. Aaron begins reading the news. Barely a sentence in, he is interrupted.
TOM: Your coat jacket is rising up in Aaron ignores the tip.
AARON: Your coat jacket is rising up in Aaron ignores the tip.
TOM: Your coat jacket is rising up in Aaron ignores the tip.
TOM: When you sit down sit on your jacket a little that gives you a good line. Look at yourself in the monitor. Aaron looks but is unimpressed and resumes reading the news. Tom, not about to be ignored when he knows it's important, moves behind Aaron and begins to force his jacket down.
AARON: ( very uncomfortable ) I don't like being handled.
TOM: Sit on it!
AARON: Just don't physically. Fantastic tip fantastic. He starts to read again.
TOM: No. That's not going to tell us anything. Let's get this prompter It's not loaded.
AARON: It's not loaded.
TOM: I'll find some copy. Be right back. Tom exits Aaron looking after him, clearly taken with the genuine camaraderie. the unmistakable joy Tom derives from helping out. Several beats and Tom comes back with a CAMERAMAN in I got copy, I got Ellen to heat up the camera and I got Master Control taping so you can study it later. He puts the roll of copy in the prompter.
TOM: I got copy, I got Ellen to heat up the camera and I got Master Control taping so you can study it later. He puts the roll of copy in the prompter.
AARON: Hey, Tom. Tom turns.
AARON: I'm very appreciative.
TOM: No. No.
AARON: Don't let your eyes go from the beginning of the sentence to the end like that. You don't want to look shifty, do you?
TOM: Don't let your eyes go from the beginning of the sentence to the end like that. You don't want to look shifty, do you?
AARON: Oh, God, no!
TOM: And the left side of your face is the good one. Go again. And try to punch one word or phrase in every sentence punch one idea a story. Punch come Aaron does same with the story he is reading.
TOM: Good.very nice. Aaron acknowledges the compliment in news mode. Punching the first words.
AARON: He draws a laugh from the Cameraman as he goes right into the next story.
TOM: Try not to move your head or wrinkle your forehead.this is good, very EXT. NEWS BUREAU - NIGHT Aaron, tape in head, is saying his farewell to Tom. He is facing his left side as he will do for the rest of his life on earth.
TOM: You were smokin' toward the end there.
AARON: The pointers were great. I'll study the tape. Tom is into helping Aaron he finds himself delivering a locker room pep talk:
TOM: And remember you're not just reading the news or narrating. Everybody has to sell a little. You're selling them this idea of you. You know, what you're sort of saying is, 'trust me. I'm, uh, credible.' So whenever you catch yourself just reading.stop and start selling a little. So long. He moves off Aaron watching him go, feeling decidedly uncomfortable by this last piece of advice and vaguely corrupted.
AARON: I spilled some rum on the outfit you picked out. Let me show you the She eyes the amount of clothing, goes to the phone and dials.
JANE: ( into phone ) Tom.why don't I meet you there? I've got some last minute stuff I've got to take care of.Hey, how did you resolve your dilemma did you rent the tux or buy it.I knew it. How much? Wow.Okay.See you I didn't know you were going with him.
AARON: I didn't know you were going with him.
JANE: Did you bring your grey suit?
AARON: Yes.I was thinking that way too. Which tie? She holds them in her hand indicates with the necklace that she wants him to help her. he fastens her necklace while looking over her bare right shoulder as she riffles through his tie Thanks. Try this one. She hands him the tie and he extracts his grey jacket from a bag puts it on and ties the tie. She reaches into a white paper bag full of fresh purchases and takes out a vial of perfume with a built-in atomizer and sprays the air in front of hr and walks into the mist. ON Aaron's reaction:
JANE: ( the clasp in place ) Thanks. Try this one. She hands him the tie and he extracts his grey jacket from a bag puts it on and ties the tie. She reaches into a white paper bag full of fresh purchases and takes out a vial of perfume with a built-in atomizer and sprays the air in front of hr and walks into the mist. ON Aaron's reaction:
JANE: I read about it that's how you can make sure you don't put on too much Could you at least pretend that this is an awkward situation for you me showing up while you're getting ready for a date.
AARON: Could you at least pretend that this is an awkward situation for you me showing up while you're getting ready for a date.
JANE: ( flaring ) It's not a date. It's co-workers going to a professional conclave. Jane, unnoticed, reaches into the paper bag, takes a small box of condoms and drops it into her evening bag.
JANE: ( on phone ) How long will it tale you to send She hangs up. paces. Then looks at Aaron, relaxes.
JANE: You look terrific. Aaron poses a question which he feels in his deepest core:
AARON: Jane nods.
AARON: Because this is important so don't just be polite. I'd really like to look.what's the word I'm looking for?.
JANE: As good as humanly possible.
AARON: Well, the line of the jacket No really..just very nice.just right. I wish I could be there.
JANE: Well, the line of the jacket No really..just very nice.just right. I wish I could be there.
AARON: Me too.Hey.if it gets dull a little before 11:00, drop by the studio.
JANE: I'm not sure I'll be able to.I.
AARON: wait for you at my apartment.
JANE: Okay, great good luck. Before she can deal with that, a cab arrives.
AARON: Thanks, Jane. Have a good time tonight.
JANE: You too. Aaron takes her in she looks lovely.
AARON: I'd hug you, but why risk mussing either of us? She half-laughs. kisses him, wipes the slight lipstick mark from his cheek and, in a sudden decision, takes each of her shoulder pads from her jacket and puts them in his improving his look while diminishing her own. She gets in the cab.
MAN ONE: The L.A. times is a great outfit. Best severance pay in the business. Jane keeps looking for Tom passing another MAN, talking to his SHARP-LOOKING DATE.
MAN THREE: He was lecturing me and finally I just said I'm sorry, I refuse to look at it as a negative that I'm young and my news appeals to people my age.
WOMAN: And it's not like he just didn't hire a twenty-six-year-old producer No kidding, twenty-six. Jane moves to the steps and starts up, greeting several people nervously. More bits of DIALOGUE, leaking from conversations of both substance and expedience.
MAN: No kidding, twenty-six. Jane moves to the steps and starts up, greeting several people nervously. More bits of DIALOGUE, leaking from conversations of both substance and expedience.
ON JANE: As she silently mouths the words "smile and move and smile and move." Which is exactly what he's doing. Then a contract with the gods.
JANE: ( to herself ) If he doesn't see me soon, we're not supposed to be together.
ON TOM: Seeing her. He does a tap step a brief giddy burst, the meaning of which is not lost on Jane. He is acting like her ON JANE Anxiety stripped away revealing a first glimpse of Jane as a joyous pretty young woman.
ON JANE: Anxiety stripped away revealing a first glimpse of Jane as a joyous pretty young woman.
ON TOM: Moving quickly up the stairs as she walks toward him.
TOM: ( excitedly ) It's incredible who's here.
JANE: She laughs. Almost completes an affectionate gesture takes his arm instead.
TOM: She laughs. Almost completes an affectionate gesture takes his arm instead.
AARON: Want to look at this?
GEORGE: ( to Aaron ) What are you doing here?
AARON: ( feigning casualness ) The weekend news.anchoring. anchoring the weekend news.
GEORGE: Way to go. Aaron nods, as the Producer finishes the copy.
AARON: Thanks. Oh, there's water on the set, isn't there, in case I get an attack of cotton mouth.
AARON: ( feeling patronized I'll be fine! Yes!! I know!!!
TOM: How you doing, Paul?
PAUL: So this is why you wouldn't do the Weekend New, you can't turn down a free meal.
TOM: Yes, born to party. Paul enjoys the riposte, looks at Jane who is shrinking within I'll see you two inside I think we're all at the same table. You're finally learning to be flexible. Glad you changed your mind about Tom. He passes through the detector. Tom starts to step through it she pulls him back.
PAUL: I'll see you two inside I think we're all at the same table. You're finally learning to be flexible. Glad you changed your mind about Tom. He passes through the detector. Tom starts to step through it she pulls him back.
JANE: I'm sorry. I don't want to go in there and sit with everybody. I can't.why don't you go? He considers this option as she waits.
TOM: Suppose I go in for a little while and you wait in the lobby-bar. How's that?
JANE: Good. That's it.See you. She walks off. He runs a few steps to stop her.
TOM: She turns.
TOM: You're not going to take off on me, are you?
JANE: She steps on the escalator. Riding upwards, concern deepens, anxiety flows.
ON TOM: Watching her to up the escalator, he finds himself doing simplest thing, stepping onto a moving step.
FULL SHOT: Jane four steps ahead of him not yet aware of him. He moves past one other man until he is standing directly behind her.
TOM: I just want you to know that my giving up the Correspondents' Dinner puts tremendous pressure on you. Jane turns and is a bit blown away by his gesture life threatens to be good. And now Jane bumps a bit at the top of the escalator, regaining her balance by grabbing Tom's offered hand. As they walk they continue to deliberately hold hands.
FLOOR MANAGER: Twenty seconds.
ON AARON: Making sure he is seated on his jacket taking one last look at the hand mirror being held by the MAKEUP WOMAN. She starts off but Aaron regrabs the mirror almost making her lose her footing a check then another check he points to a spot on his forehead which she dabs with the makeup sponge. Both of them fuss enormously with his hair four busy hands.
FLOOR MANAGER: Ten seconds.
AARON: How many?
FLOOR MANAGER: He watches the Makeup Woman scurry underneath a camera lens, resits on his jacket and finally has the moment the system has been denying him for years. We can HEAR the END OF HIS CUE in a barely AUDIBLE CRACKLE from the Floor Manager's earphones. ".with Aaron Altman."
AARON: He watches the Makeup Woman scurry underneath a camera lens, resits on his jacket and finally has the moment the system has been denying him for years. We can HEAR the END OF HIS CUE in a barely AUDIBLE CRACKLE from the Floor Manager's earphones. ".with Aaron Altman."
AARON: ( on TV ) Good Evening.In mood and language better suited to an espionage novel than the delicate world of the Western Alliance, the British Foreign Secretary today pounced on what he termed, 'The nest of profession spies and amateur traitors who were turning NATO Headquarters into an instrument whose only true function is folly.' We begin our coverage with Edward Towne in London. Aaron looks up takes a breath. He's done well he's punched his words and his one thought for the story. His gaze has been steady, his voice firm but he has begun to perspire. He dabs with his finger at the first trickles from his brow brushes some more prominent sweat from his upper lip. He beckons nervously to the Makeup Woman who comes in and dabs then dabs again as Aaron feels himself under his arms.
MAKEUP WOMAN: Gee whiz.
FLOOR MANAGER: Five seconds. She scurries away, Aaron reaching for another Kleenex from her box and missing it. A graphic illustrating his next scripted section appears behind him.
AARON: .the sub-bases referred to are located in five countries. And now the moisture on his face is clearly discernible the Floor Manager and Makeup Woman grimacing at the growing specter as they look at a large monitor.
AARON: France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Spain as. And now so much moisture sprouts from his upper lip that he pushes his lower lip out to slurp away the sweat. The Makeup Woman laughs briefly out loud before catching herself. Aaron's eyes dart angrily in her direction.
AARON: We well as Great Britain.Our own State Department was rocked not only by the revelation but from the highly unusual persistence from the State Press Corps. Martin Klein reports on the ruckus at Foggy Bottom. Half-beat until he's sure that he's off his shirt now showing distinct sweat stains.
AARON: Help me. The Makeup Woman picks up her Kleenex box then thinks better of it.
MAKEUP WOMAN: Someone finds me some big towels.
ON AARON: He blots his face some makeup streaked by the towel.
FLOOR MANAGER: Five seconds.
DIRECTOR: I'd go looser but we wouldn't see the graphic.
TECHNICIAN: ( to other Technician ) No this is more than Nixon ever The Makeup Woman now looks at the bank of monitors.
MAKEUP WOMAN: Can't you just die for him?
ON MONITOR: Aaron's makeup-streaked face.
TOM: You okay?
JANE: FULL SHOT REVEALING that they are sitting on an anti-terrorist concrete abutment protecting a major government building on a beautiful night in our capitol. He is still holding her hand and now he notes this.
FULL SHOT: REVEALING that they are sitting on an anti-terrorist concrete abutment protecting a major government building on a beautiful night in our capitol. He is still holding her hand and now he notes this.
TOM: ( loudly to himself ) Why can't I let go of this woman?
JANE: He interrupts her with the smallest of kisses so mall and swift a kiss that she is left doing her return kisses to mid- air. And then he does something he's thought about many times before he briefly caresses her breasts while continuing to look at her.
JANE: At least kiss me when you do You just can't stop editing me. This is hysterical. She laughs a little then kisses him. They break surprised and aroused and look at each other.
TOM: ( a grin ) You just can't stop editing me. This is hysterical. She laughs a little then kisses him. They break surprised and aroused and look at each other.
JANE: This is hysterical. She laughs a little then kisses him. They break surprised and aroused and look at each other.
JANE: I was half hoping I wouldn't have a good time tonight. You know why?
TOM: Because you're nuts.
JANE: Right, right Isn't she fun to He leans forward and speaks softly and truly.
TOM: More and more lately when I've watched you in action seen all your energy I've been wondering what it would be like to be inside all that energy. She takes a gulp of her drink puts a hand to feel the heat on her own cheek. Then turns to him.
JANE: Right back at you. Several beats.
TOM: I don't remember saying anything like that exactly.I don't know why I just did.
JANE: ( immediately at work ) Oh let's see wait a minute, well, I can think of two reasons.
TOM: Three.I just thought of a third. If you talk about it, you don't have to do it.
JANE: Three.I just thought of a third. If you talk about it, you don't have to do it.
TOM: That's not it.
JANE: Good.Another is you're trying to make it all about sex and heat and nothing else. She looks at him he's thinking.
JANE: Or it's that great feeling that you don't want to hold anything back. You know, intimacy. She elbows him. Tom takes in the choices then:
JANE: ( suddenly ) Oh, shit. I'm a creep. She moves off the concrete wall.
JANE: I forgot all about Aaron. I promised to stop by and see how he did.
TOM: I'd like to know. I'll go along.
JANE: No. I'll see you at your apartment as soon as I can. She starts to flurry with activity moves to the curb when out of nowhere Tom barks a sharp command, the first time any of his actions has been tinged with fury.
TOM: Thrown, she stops and turns. He walks to her.
JANE!: Thrown, she stops and turns. He walks to her.
JANE: What happened?
TOM: Don't run off like everything's settled the minute you make up your He might be weird he can talk more freely if I go alone why's that so hard to understand?
JANE: He might be weird he can talk more freely if I go alone why's that so hard to understand?
TOM: It's not that it's hard. I just want you to give me a minute to catch up.
JANE: ( she hugs him ) ( another beat ) Don't yell at me like that again, you scared the life out of me.
AARON: I was in the shower. She enters.
JANE: How'd it go?
AARON: You didn't see it or speak to Then it went well.
JANE: Then it went well.
AARON: Then it went well.
JANE: Did it really go well?
AARON: Define your terms.
JANE: Do you feel good about it?
AARON: Do others feel that you did well?
JANE: Do others feel that you did well?
AARON: Then what was good about it?
JANE: Then what was good about it?
AARON: I lost six pounds.
JANE: Aaron, will you tell me?
AARON: It was great.writing my little first rate copy, sitting on my jacket, punching my one thought. But I had this historic attack of flop sweat so they'll never let me another again. Oh, I lost one of your shoulder pads how was your evening anyway?
JANE: What do you mean, flop sweat? you're making too much out of it.I'll bet you were the only one aware of it.
AARON: People phoned in.
JANE: Stop kidding. I want to know what happened.
AARON: I'm not kidding.
JANE: There were complaining phone calls because you were sweating?
AARON: No, nice ones worried that I was having a heart attack.
JANE: If all that happened, how come you're so chipper?
AARON: I don't know. At a certain point it was so off the chart bad it got funny. My central nervous system was telling me something. Jane sweat running down my face makeup falling into my eyes people turning this fusillade of blow dryers on me all so I could read introductions to other people who were covering stories which is what I like to do anyway. And I'm chipper because you finally showed up. I thought I'd cook for us. Tequila and eggs sound good?
JANE: I have to be somewhere. He looks at a clock reading 1:15 in the morning.
JANE: I told what's his name Tom that I'd meet him.
AARON: Call him I mean it can wait, I don't know. I may be in love with him.
JANE: ( now the plunge ) I don't know. I may be in love with him.
AARON: ( as if he just burned She starts for the door.
AARON: Don't go.
JANE: This is important to me.
AARON: Yeah. Well.I think it is important for you too. Sit down. She sits. He walks to a desk and looks at her briefly. Silence.
JANE: ( looking at her ) Let me think a second. It's A remarkably long silence her mind wanders, she takes stock. it is evident that he is straining to get it right, reaching into himself.
AARON: ( looking at her ) Let me think a second. It's A remarkably long silence her mind wanders, she takes stock. it is evident that he is straining to get it right, reaching into himself.
AARON: ( glancing at note ) Let's take the part that has nothing to do with me. Let's let me be your most trusted friend, the one that gets to say awful things to you. You know?
JANE: ( testy and wary Yes, I guess. Yes.
AARON: You can't end up with Tom because it goes totally against everything you're about.
JANE: Yeah being a basket case.
AARON: I know you care about him. I've never seen you like this about anyone, so please don't take it wrong when I tell you that I believe that Tom, while a very nice guy, is the Devil.
JANE: ( quickly ) This isn't friendship.
AARON: What do you think the Devil is going to look like if he's around? Nobody is going to be taken in if he has a long, red, pointy tail. No. I'm semi-serious here. He will look attractive and he will be nice and helpful and he will get a job where he influences a great God-fearing nation and he will never do an evil thing.he will just bit by little bit lower standards where they are important. Just coax along flash over substance. Just a tiny bit. And he will talk about all of us really being salesmen. And he'll get all the great women. She is getting pissed.
JANE: I think you're the Devil.
AARON: No. You know that I'm not.
JANE: Because we have the kind of relationship where if I were the Devil, you'd be the only one I She's briefly impressed. He has a point.
AARON: Because we have the kind of relationship where if I were the Devil, you'd be the only one I She's briefly impressed. He has a point.
JANE: You were quick enough to get Tom's help when.
AARON: Yes, yes. I know. Right. And if it had gone well for me tonight, maybe I'd be keeping quiet about all this.I grant you everything but give me this.he does personify everything you've been fighting against.And I'm in love with you. How do you like that? I buried the lead. He pauses to catch his breath breathing deeply through his I've got to not say that aloud; it takes too much out of me.
AARON: ( an aside ) I've got to not say that aloud; it takes too much out of me.
JANE: ( thawing ) Sit down, stop. Aaron slumps down it's been a long round.
AARON: I've never fought for anyone before. Does anybody win one of these things?
ON TOM: Momentarily thinking it's Jane. Elated.
JANE: Hi. It's me.
TOM: Where are you?
JANE: I can't get away just yet. I'm at Aaron's.
TOM: Well, when?
JANE: I'm not sure. It seems like he had sort of a mishap on the news.
TOM: I know. I taped it.
JANE: It wasn't as bad as he think, was it? it wasn't unprecedented or Not if you count 'Singing in the Rain.' Do him a favor and don't treat it like a tragedy. You want me to talk to him? Her eyes meet Aaron's.
TOM: Not if you count 'Singing in the Rain.' Do him a favor and don't treat it like a tragedy. You want me to talk to him? Her eyes meet Aaron's.
JANE: ( to Aaron ) He says you could hardly notice it. Aaron beckons for the phone. Jane hands it to him, as she does Don't say anything about anything.
JANE: Don't say anything about anything.
AARON: Hi. Will I ever sing again?
TOM: Everybody has one like that. I thought it was great when you started to laugh at the end.
AARON: Yeah well, I'm sorry I'm tying up Jane, I didn't realize you two would be going this late. Sorry.
TOM: No. Don't worry about it.
AARON: I'll put her on. She takes the phone.
JANE: Hi, again. Sorry about.
TOM: No. That sounds more important. Let's forget about tonight.
JANE: I don't know if that's absolutely I've got my father coming through tomorrow anyway. I should get some sleep.
TOM: I've got my father coming through tomorrow anyway. I should get some sleep.
JANE: ( hampered by Aaron's I'll see you at the office. Good night. Several beats of silence. Finally:
TOM: I'll see you at the office. Good night. Several beats of silence. Finally:
TOM: ( finally ) Okay. Good night.
JANE: Okay. Good night.
TOM: Okay. Good night.
JANE: ( aghast ) Good night??!
TOM: Jane, I'm not some chore you have to finish so you can stay on schedule.
JANE: Okay, great, Grunick Easy shots now huh? Good night. She puts the phone down. A beat she looks stricken. Aaron looks at her.
JANE: He just cancelled. He had a chance to think and he She bows her head.
JANE: I can't breathe. Over a guy?!? But I can't I can't breathe. Damn it! She gulps a breath. Her hands on her knees, leaning over another deep breath. Aaron takes in the specter.
AARON: Well, Jane, it was nice of you to drop by.
ON JANE: She hangs up the phone. Then compulsively hits the "Tom" button again. Busy. And again. Busy. She considers for a moment hitting the button next to Aaron's name.
JANE: ( stopping herself ) Be fair. She presses the button next to Tom's name. Busy. And again. EXT. ERNIE MERRIMAN'S HOUSE - MONDAY MORNING As he picks up for newspapers dotting his lawn and opens the door of his car just as his wife calls from the door.
WIFE: Ernie, they're calling from work.
ERNIE: Tell me I'm on the way in.
WIFE: It's Paul. Ernie, just a bit concerned, walks back to his house the four newspapers thick enough to be an awkward carry.
ERNIE: ( into phone ) Hello. Yes. He holds the phone down at his side for a beat, composing himself in the face of a sudden and horrible turn of events.
ERNIE: Would there be any point to my going to New York and talking to them? Would there be any point in going over it with you? No, I'm still coming in. He hangs up.
WIFE: They fired me. She takes his hand and kisses it then hugs him.
ERNIE: They fired me. She takes his hand and kisses it then hugs him.
WIFE: ( weeping ) How horrible. We'll be fine. You'll be fine. Stay here with me we'll go for a drive, have some drinks, make happy plans.
ERNIE: No. They're firing even more people than they said. Some will want to talk. It could help.
WIFE: ( timidly ) I could use somebody to talk to on a day like this. ( on his reaction ) Sorry. Go ahead. He kisses her sad face.
ERNIE: Bye, sweetie.
WIFE: Okay, sweetie. He walks towards the door picks up his newspapers on the tray beneath the hall mirror and does a start.
BLAIR: I've got four hours of French Jane waves it off.
BLAIR: Some of it they use water cannons. Jane takes the tape.
JANE: What are you dressed up for? Oh, that's right because the Evening News is here this week.
BLAIR: I spent a fortune on this. Blair EXITS. Jane pops the tape in, automatically making timing notes, then standing looking again towards Tom's JANE'S P.O.V. The door now closed.
JANE: She stops the tape summons herself. She walks towards Tom's office and opens the door. Tom is seated behind his desk.
JANE: ( without passion ) I kept trying to call you you never called me. Were you just diddling me? Is that it? I'm great if I'm helping your career. ( mimicking ) But when I'm a woman for a second, I get immediately fucked around by She is obviously in pain but still alert enough to catch Tom's INT. TOM'S OFFICE - DAY Jane, this is my Dad. And, now OPENING the door a bit more Tom's father is REVEALED seated across from him.
TOM: Jane, this is my Dad. And, now OPENING the door a bit more Tom's father is REVEALED seated across from him.
JANE: ( that quickly ) Please forgive what I said. ( to Tom ) As she retreats:
TOM: You just light up a room and leave, She laughs nervously as she exits.
DAD: You want my opinion?
TOM: The thing that's easy to miss about Jane is.
DAD: You want my opinion? And it's okay if you don't. Tom thinks a beat.
TOM: Yes, I would.
DAD: The way she just acted is not the way an affectionate person acts. Tom finds the comment off-the-wall enough to be thought INT. NEWSROOM - DAY Paul arriving with Bill Rorish. The first time we have seen the multi-millionaire anchorman in the flesh. He has the grace and dignity of a man who spends every waking moment working on grace and dignity, He and Paul are in the midst of an important conversation muted and ominous.
BILL: Just when do you start, telling people?
PAUL: Almost immediately.
BILL: I'd like to take everyone out after the show.
PAUL: Bill.This is hard on all of us and it's no time for compliments. But I think it's extraordinary of you to come down here for this.
BILL: If we're not here for each other during the tough time, we're not a news organization. Blair ENTERS scene. The smallest flicker of interest from Bill, but more than enough to justify her going into hock for the Welcome back to Washington.
BLAIR: Welcome back to Washington.
BILL: A self-conscious look of greeting to Paul and she's gone.
BILL: I've forgotten. Was she on the list? Paul nods "yes."
BILL: This is a brutal layoff.And all because they couldn't program Wednesdays.
PAUL: ( can't resist ) You can make it a little less brutal by knocking a million dollars or so off your salary. AS Bill turns:
PAUL: Just a bad joke. I'm sorry. Awful. It's a miserable day and that was some kind of totally sick-joke defense mechanism which does not indicate any of my feelings not one but just shows the kind of stress this represents for all of us. Tom and his Father ENTER the scene from Tom's office. Bill walks to Tom.
BILL: Hi. It's about time.
TOM: Good to see you, Bill. AS they shake:
INSERT: A great handshake.
TOM: This is my father.
BILL: Good to meet you, sir.
ON TOM: Equally touched as he watches the world's most prominent journalist greet his Dad, who turns goofy with excitement.
MR. GRUNICK: Good-bye, Tom. He puts a big hand on his son's cheek a farewell pat. Then whispers in his ear.
MR. GRUNICK: I'm going to go back home and tell all your old teachers. Tom watches his father walk off and moves immediately to Jane's editing room.
JANE: I feel terrible about what happened. What did he say?
TOM: He uh said he liked you because you looked like you had fire and No. Did he really?
JANE: ( enormously pleased ) No. Did he really?
TOM: Yes. Then he said a really weird That it would be a treat to make someone like you feel better. He gets like that sometimes.
JANE: ( so softly ) ( he means this ) That it would be a treat to make someone like you feel better. He gets like that sometimes.
TOM: ( he means this ) That it would be a treat to make someone like you feel better. He gets like that sometimes.
JANE: That's so perfectly.It really makes me feel a little faint. Blair enters wildly into the scene.
BLAIR: They canned me. Well, my brother will feel great now he's not the only screw-up.
JANE: It's started. Bobbie sticks his head out of his office.
BOBBIE: Tom Paul wants to see you. AS Tom focuses and moves off:
SECRETARY: He'll just be a minute. Tom sits down pats his tie in place. A beat and the door opens. Paul leads out Martin Klein. They shake hands.
MARTIN KLEIN: You know I'm just old enough to be flattered by the term, 'early retirement.'
PAUL: That's wonderful.what a lovely line. If there's anything I can do. They shake.
MARTIN KLEIN: ( evenly ) I certainly hope you die soon. A little smile to Tom and he's off.
PAUL: Tom enters the room. A nervous cough in evidence as he crosses to a seat.
PAUL: We're having a severe cutback, Tom 17 people in this bureau including technical personnel and we're going to reorganize at the same time. We're going to take you out of Washington for a while and assign you to London.
ANONYMOUS VOICE: No. I won't keep my voice down. Those sons-of-bitches.They are worse than accountants they are bad accountants. Tom enters scene.
TOM: Have you guys seen Jane?
ERNIE: She's in there becoming the first woman bureau chief we've had here. Tom takes this in.
AARON: What did they do with you?
TOM: They booted me out of Washington.
AARON: Impossible. There's no system that wouldn't value one of us.
TOM: Why? What did they do to you?
ERNIE: ( pointing at Aaron ) It's what he did. I'm proud of They told me they'd keep me because they could plug me into any story and my salary was in line.
AARON: They told me they'd keep me because they could plug me into any story and my salary was in line.
ERNIE: The cost-efficient reporter.
AARON: So I quit. A weeping woman bursts into their circle and sweeps Ernie away. Tom and Aaron stand there comrades at last victims of the same sword.
TOM: You packing up tonight?
AARON: Yes. And I'm sorry that they're sending you down for a while, but you'll make it back.Where they sending you?
TOM: ( incensed ) London. That's a promotion!
AARON: ( incensed ) London. That's a promotion!
TOM: ( defensively ) I don't think so.
AARON: It is. Yes that's where they had Rorish, for God's sake, before they made him anchor. I can't stand it they're grooming you for it all and you don't even know it.
TOM: Hold it down, okay?
AARON: Can I ask you something? You only had one crew on the date rape piece, He extends his hand.
TOM: Yes. You're not going to stick around for the farewell party?
AARON: No. I don't know how much fun it will be when Martin Klein and Ernie have to drop off their credentials with the security guard. Aaron looks at people packing their belongings in boxes a few pockets of conversation. Ernie reading some copy.
AARON: This story they won't cover. And if the network doesn't cover it it must not be important so why worry.
TOM: ( eyeing him ) I'm going to miss you you're a prick in a great way. Aaron taken by surprise laughs.
TOM: You know what I.
AARON: No, I liked the way it made me sound. Okay. Be good. So long. He exits.
ON JANE: AS she embraces an older secretary.
OLDER SECRETARY: You know what I always wanted to tell you that.
JANE: Shhh. This isn't the last time we'll see each other. It's not. A two-armed tight embrace of Martin Klein.
JANE: We'll get them back it's going to change. Blair is at hand as they embrace.
BLAIR: Except for socially, you're my role And now she sees Tom he mouths one word at her "London." She nods that she already knows and then lets her body sag a little. He gestures her towards her editing room, so they can INT. EDITING ROOM - DAY AS Tom enters and waits for Jane. When she enters he closes the door.
JANE: These people it's all so awful. It just hurts physically, doesn't it? Like something's wrong with your bones, like your organs are shifting inside your body. She looks at him expectantly. It's not what he's feeling.
TOM: Maybe I haven't been here long But, hey, congratulations on the How can you say that to me?
JANE: How can you say that to me?
TOM: ( a beat ) I can't stand here feeing bad that I don't feel worse. This has happened at every station I ever worked for. Look, I think it's crazy for you to come in here tomorrow and start a new job. I have a week to get to my job. Let's get the hell away to some island fast and find out how we are together away from this. A beat Jane takes it in.
JANE: Well, I just think that' an extraordinary That's yes?
TOM: That's yes?
JANE: That's more than 'yes' that's 'you bet.' They kiss.
AARON: INT. JANE'S OFFICE - NIGHT Jane still at the office it is quite late.
JANE: Bastard, sneak, quitter.
AARON: I just found out. You didn't say anything to me? You just resign? Will you meet me now? No, now! I'm going away tomorrow. Please.
JANE: I just found out. You didn't say anything to me? You just resign? Will you meet me now? No, now! I'm going away tomorrow. Please.
JANE: Why not try it for a few weeks?
AARON: Stop. Ernie thought I was good too he couldn't help. My agent has a hot prospect the number two station in Portland. The general manager says he wants to be every bit as good as the networks. Personally, I think he should aim higher.
JANE: Tell me the God's honest truth are you leaving because of me? Because if you are.
AARON: Ernie told this story. How he used to write obits and when the people in town called him up with death notices, he cried. He was till that way when they promoted him out of obits. He says you're lucky if you can get out while you could still cry. I should have quit this place three years ago.
JANE: You're just trying to say all great stuff so I'll feel even worse that you're not around. He laughs.
AARON: Let's go.
JANE: I just want to sit here longer, I mean the feeling is powerful why's that?
AARON: Maybe the best part of your life is over and you don't want to get up and start the bad part. Jane looks at him levelly.
JANE: You are now required to sit here with Come on.be smart for a second what do you think will happen to us?
AARON: Okay, that's very easy. Five, six years from now I'll be in town to collect an award representing the surge in foreign coverage by local stations.
JANE: ( smile, it's like I'll be walking with my wife and two children we'll bump into you on the street, my youngest son will say something and I'll tell him. ( deliberately ) .it's not nice to make fun of single, fat ladies.
AARON: I'll be walking with my wife and two children we'll bump into you on the street, my youngest son will say something and I'll tell him. .it's not nice to make fun of single, fat ladies.
JANE: You won't be able to stay mad at me, I hope so. No. I'm not really mad. I'll miss you, we'll talk, we'll always be friends.we'll get hot for each other every few years at dinner and never act on it, okay? Jane smiles Aaron has grown suddenly angry. He rises, walks away, then turns.
AARON: I hope so. No. I'm not really mad. I'll miss you, we'll talk, we'll always be friends.we'll get hot for each other every few years at dinner and never act on it, okay? Jane smiles Aaron has grown suddenly angry. He rises, walks away, then turns.
AARON: Jane, you know how Tom had tears in the piece the other night? Ask yourself how we were able to see them when he only had one camera and that was pointing at the girl during the interview. I'm fairly sure I was right to tell EXT. OFFICE - NIGHT We LOOK THROUGH THE WINDOW as Jane enters in a frenzy searching the stacks.
YOUNG WOMAN: .but the whole thing messed me up more than it should. She cries. We HEAR Tom.
TOM'S VOICE: Okay, that will do it. You okay? The tape is rocky now the Sound Woman and Cameraman continue to roll as they move towards their next shot at times the camera pointing towards the carpet but the sound continues. The crew chatting mentioning that the tape is still rolling.
TOM: That's enough. That's enough.
YOUNG WOMAN: I'm sorry.
TOM: Are you okay?
YOUNG WOMAN: Yes, I'm sorry.
TOM: Don't be silly. What are you sorry The way you were looking at me, I just went. Tom moves through the SHOT.
YOUNG WOMAN: The way you were looking at me, I just went. Tom moves through the SHOT.
TOM: I just need you for another minute now, so we can shoot from behind towards me, and, um.
YOUNG WOMAN: .that way we have someplace to go when we cut. And I just sit here, I nod my head and look nerdy. Young Woman chuckles. Jane chuckles.
TOM: .that way we have someplace to go when we cut. And I just sit here, I nod my head and look nerdy. Young Woman chuckles. Jane chuckles.
SOUNDWOMAN'S VOICE: SOUNDWOMAN'S VOICE It kills me we didn't have a second camera. It was so powerful seeing your reaction.
TOM: SOUNDWOMAN'S VOICE It kills me we didn't have a second camera. It was so powerful seeing your reaction.
SOUNDWOMAN'S VOICE: It kills me we didn't have a second camera. It was so powerful seeing your reaction.
TOM: YOUNG WOMAN'S VOICE Yes, it is.
TOM: ( considering, then ) Then give me a minute.
JANE: ( fully realizing ) You fucking. As Jane watches we SEE Tom work up the tears we saw in the Evening News piece as he does so:
TOM: Look who's the organized one. I've got everything. He briefly opens a paper gift shop bag he is holding and shows her he has bought them each a bathing suit.
JANE: I'm not going. He looks at her with anticipatory distaste evident on his face.
TOM: I saw the taped outtakes of the interview with the girl. I know you 'acted' your reaction after the interview. Tom half turns from her and moves back toward the bench. Jane close behind, stalking him.
JANE: I saw the taped outtakes of the interview with the girl. I know you 'acted' your reaction after the interview. Tom half turns from her and moves back toward the bench. Jane close behind, stalking him.
TOM: I felt funny about it afterwards. It's verboten, huh? I thought since I did it for real the first time but I get you. That's not the reason you're not Of course it's the reason. It's terrible what you did.
JANE: ( raising her voice ) Of course it's the reason. It's terrible what you did.
TOM: We disagree on how God-awful it was. Why don't you come with me and we can disagree and get a tan at the same time?
JANE: ( livid ) Jesus, if you're glib about this I'm going to lose it. I was up all night and.
TOM: ( calmly ) Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane.
JANE: It made me ill. You could get fired for things like that.
TOM: I got promoted for things like that.
JANE: Working up tears for a new piece cutaway.You totally crossed the line between.
TOM: It's hard not to cross it; they keep moving the little sucker, don't they?
JANE: ( distaste ) It just proves that the difference we have are.
TOM: This is a one-way argument. We've got six days; if you go and we fight and we hate it we'll come home. If you don't go? Well, that's a much bigger deal. I go to London right after that. So, it'd be very big deal if you stay here. The plane's boarding. You're good at deadline. Here's your ticket.
JANE: ( taking ticket ) It's amazing. You commit this incredible breach of ethics and you act as if I'm nitpicking. Try and get this. When you edited that.
TOM: ( deliberately ) I'm leaving now. Gate 43. He simply turns and walks away looking back once as Jane stands there mucked up by his sudden departure the lack of resolution to their confrontation is palpable.
TICKET AGENT: ( to Tom ) This is the last one. Others start to board. He sees Jane moving towards him. He walks to her, she gestures back towards the street.
JANE: That's not going to be the way we say good-bye. Even though I think what you did was rotten it's not all impersonal. You mean something to me.
TOM: ( interrupting ) You keep coming after me and looking down on me. It's starting to make me batty. She looks at him. I can't help it that they like me. And I like that they like me. And I think there's a lot of this job that I do well. What do you think it takes to do this job the way they have it now?
JANE: I don't wan to discuss work.
TOM: Well, let's do a special report on that.I mean that's news.
JANE: I knew what you meant.
TOM: What I don't know, I can learn and what I know, nobody can teach. Excuse me for saying it about myself, but I think it's true. What do you think? Never mind what you think. They look at each other.
JANE: You're lucky I came after you so you got that off your.
TOM: Yes, I am. Thanks. I mean it.
JANE: It's okay.
TICKET AGENT: The pressure begins to bend Jane's resolve.
JANE: So you have an extra bathing suit, huh?
TOM: ( wary but hopeful ) You want to come?
JANE: ( totally open ) It's just that one of the few things I'm not confused about is what I was saying downstairs, that.
TOM: ( giving up sadly, Then you should stay here.
JANE: ( softly ) It's better when you let me say it. He hugs her. Now that it's over, they can each openly care for each other. While in the embrace:
TOM: Take it easy.
JANE: Why did I have to do this to myself? Watch you take off. Call me if you need anything. He kisses her lightly looking at her. Then heartfelt:
TOM: Oh, honey. He walks to the People Eater and gets on, still holding his paper bags of bathing suits. The bus pulls away.
ON JANE: Watching him go.
CABBIE: Good morning.
JANE: Good morning. Dupont Circle, please. The cab pulls away.
JANE: Don't take the beltway, because at this time of day there's gonna be a lot. .Go any way you want. She sits back in the seat ( containing herself ) before finally and quietly adding what she knows to be true:
JANE: But New York Avenue's faster.
TOM: . when they told me Bill had decided to retire and offered me the Evening News, I thought it was the same kind of joke we used to pull back at the station turning off somebody's prompter in the middle of a show. Some good-natured laughter. And then when they heard my reaction they thought I was kidding. I told them I'd be their anchor but I didn't want to be the Managing Editor that there were people better qualified than I to control the content and if there weren't we were all in trouble. The audience really enjoys this:
TOM: And now to something more important. I'd like to introduce my bride. A svelte, classic, warm beauty gets to her feet.
ON TOM: As he sees Aaron. he is clearly delighted.
TOM: Holy shit, Aaron. He claps him on the back. Aaron is as pleased as he is uncomfortable with the attention.
TOM: Lila this is Aaron Altman.
LILA: ( high British accent ) Oh, yes you're one of Tom's 50 or so role models.
AARON: Well, this kid couldn't possibly belong to anyone else. What's your name?
TOM: Well, this kid couldn't possibly belong to anyone else. What's your name?
BOY: ( indicating Tom ) Do you know who this is, Cliff?
AARON: ( indicating Tom ) Do you know who this is, Cliff?
BOY: The big joke? Tom looks at him Aaron gives his son a disciplinary nudge.
AARON: I'm just bringing him over to give Jane a look at him
TOM: I thought she'd be here. I'll go with you.
AARON: ( to Lila ) I'll see you back at the hotel.
TOM: ( to Lila ) I'll see you back at the hotel.
LILA: ( cool ) All right. He starts off. She pulls him back for an urgent communication.
LILA: Tom, the speech was magnificent.
AARON: Oh, I didn't say anything about your speech.
TOM: I appreciate it.
ON JANE: Shielding her eyes from the sun now making out Tom. As they reach her.
JANE: ( to herself ) Well, why not? ( as they arrive ) Hey, what is this? My life's rushing in front of my eyes.
TOM: A picnic?
JANE: I thought for ol' Cliff here Look at you? You're more adorable than your pictures. Look what I got for you. She hands him a toy.
AARON: What do you say, Cliff? The boy kisses Jane's hand.
AARON: He excels at gratitude.
TOM: ( to Jane ) Are you any closer to a decision?
JANE: I think so.They've been talking to me about being Tom's Managing I'm going to take it.
AARON: ( to Tom ) I'm going to take it.
JANE: ( to Tom ) I'm going to take it.
TOM: What a great surprise. I didn't think we had a chance. I heard you wanted to stay in Washington.
JANE: Well, there's a guy, but he says he'll fly up a lot.
TOM: Well, we should talk. You going to have time for dinner? I'd like you to meet Lila.
JANE: I'm sorry because I was looking forward to that, but I' m going back in a few hours.
TOM: Okay.It's so good to see you. She gives him a quick kiss. He shakes hands with Aaron.
TOM: ( to Aaron ) It's nice to see you.
AARON: Congratulations on history's longest winning streak.
TOM: If you ever get restless in Portland, let me know.
AARON: Tom shuffles uncomfortably.
ON JANE: Smiling, appreciating Aaron's attitude toward a blandishment of the Tom walks away. He's a good twenty yards away when Aaron looks up to see his son running after Tom.
TOM: ( to Jane as he leaves ) Tom walks away. He's a good twenty yards away when Aaron looks up to see his son running after Tom.
AARON: ( calling ) Hey! Cliff! Cliff! Tom now notices the boy, leans down and pats him.
TOM: ( to Clifford ) Go back to your daddy. The boy starts back.
AARON: Come on, Cliff. Come on. As Clifford runs back to his father, Aaron sits next to Jane.
AARON: ( to Jane ) So who's the guy?
JANE: Well, we met about three months ago. He works at the surgeon general office. He loves boating. So, he's been getting me into water skiing. Aaron laughs at the very notion of Jane finding water sports a lure. Jane deliberately moves past this moment.
JANE: I like it! So, doll, what about you Well my wife got this new job. He continues to talk. As the two former colleagues catch up, their ease returns, if not their intimacy, as the frame locks and the scene slowly recedes into a black b.g. and we.
AARON: Well my wife got this new job. He continues to talk. As the two former colleagues catch up, their ease returns, if not their intimacy, as the frame locks and the scene slowly recedes into a black b.g. and we.
