BROKEN ARROW: Written by Graham Yost
FOURTH DRAFT: March 7, 1995
DEAKINS: You know what happened there?
HALE: Hell, I barely know what day it is.
DEAKINS: I set you up. I fake right, go left three times in a row. You expect it again, I take the right in hard. That's what boxing's all about. Make your opponent think you're gonna do one thing, then do another. Like Ali in Zaire, using the rope-a-dope on Foreman. ( mimes rope-a-dope ) Everyone thought Ali's arms were getting destroyed, when he was really just letting Foreman tire himself out. Eighth round, Ali starts hitting, George's got nothing left fight's over.
HALE: The fact that I can't feel the left side of my face that's okay, right? Deakins laughs. Hale seizes the relaxed moment and suddenly launches into Deakins with a flurry of punches.
DEAKINS: Several of Hale's punches land. Deakins staggers back, caught off guard. It looks like he might even go down.
HALE: He cocks his arm back. He could finish Deakins off. But he doesn't. He drops his fist.
DEAKINS: Seizes the opportunity and slugs back.
THE CROWD: Loves it.
DEAKINS: Don't watch my hands watch my shoulders. That's where the punch starts. Ready? Deakins hits Hale hard in the face, sending him back.
THE SPECTATORS: Are circling the ring, following the fighters, cheering.
DEAKINS: You were looking at my hands. Let's try it again. Ready? Deakins hits Hale hard. He's got Hale on the run.
DEAKINS: Come on. Focus. Ready?
HALE: Lands, dazed, blood trickling out of the corner of his mouth.
DEAKINS: He's in silhouette, the lights above him.
HALE: Looks up at Deakins, catches his breath.
HALE'S LOCKER: Is in sunlight. On the inside of his locker door are pictures of exotic planes the SR-71, a swept-wing fighter, an artist's rendition of the Aurora, etc.
DEAKINS' LOCKER: On the shady side of the room. Nothing on the inside of his locker door. The locker is spare, Zen-like in its neatness.
HALE: HALE'S HAND Slams a twenty dollar bill down on the bench.
HALE'S HAND: Slams a twenty dollar bill down on the bench.
DEAKINS: I can't take that.
HALE: Oh, shut up.
DEAKINS: Really. I feel bad. How many times have we fought and how many times have you won?
HALE: Well, if you insist. Deakins grins, folds the bill and jams it into his flightsuit.
DEAKINS: Well, if you insist. Deakins grins, folds the bill and jams it into his flightsuit.
DEAKINS: You know why I beat you?
HALE: Because you've been boxing for twenty years and you're much better at it than I am?
DEAKINS: You don't want it enough. You had me today. I was back on my heels. But you didn't close the door.
HALE: We were just sparring.
DEAKINS: Life isn't sparring, Hale.
HALE: I think I saw that on a T-shirt. Deakins pulls out the twenty dollar bill; hands it back to Hale.
DEAKINS: No, that's yours.
HALE: No, that's yours.
DEAKINS: If you weren't giving it everything you've got, then I don't want it.
HALE: No, I mean that's yours, literally. I took it out of your wallet when you were in the shower. Deakins laughs, puts the money away.
BOONE: ( nods at NO SMOKING
SIGN ): ( puts out cigarette ) What's the mission, General?
DEAKINS: ( puts out cigarette ) What's the mission, General?
BOONE: Simulate a border penetration. Hug the ground. Scare some cows. See if anyone can spot you.
HALE: The usual .?
BOONE: No, actually, it's a little unusual. You're carrying a couple of nukes tonight, fellas. ( off their looks ) Palmdale's afraid low-level gamma and x-ray diffusion might screw up the peripherals. They asked us to send a couple on a run, see if anything glows.
HALE: ( shakes head ) Big ones. '83s.
BOONE: ( shakes head ) Big ones. '83s.
HALE: Ooh. Crowpleasers.
DEAKINS: ( into helmet mike ) Ready for rollout.
THE GHOST: An enormous black flying wing.
HALE: You know, these exercises are fantastic. I mean, when that day comes and we finally go to war against Utah, we are really going to kick ass.
A RANGER: We don't see his face in the dark. He switches on a flashlight, walks over and taps on the tent.
RANGER: Park Ranger. I'd like to talk to somebody about this fire.
JIM: I know no wood fires in the Park. It's just Wanda's got a cold and I wanted her to stay warm.
RANGER: Sir, you see any other hikers, campers anywhere around here?
JIM: Not this time of year. What's the fine for something like this?
RANGER: Your life. Jim grins. But the ranger pulls out a pistol and shoots Jim, who falls into the fire. He then puts three shots through the wall of the tent. Nothing moves. The Ranger call him BAKER pulls out a walkie-talkie, clicks on.
BAKER: Come on and two Humvees roll in and four men get out. Three of them JOHNSON, a tech-whiz; LETT, gangly, grim, and NOVACEK, a wiry guy in a baseball cap start setting up what looks to be a high-tech missile launcher. The fourth man is.
HEADLIGHTS: Come on and two Humvees roll in and four men get out. Three of them JOHNSON, a tech-whiz; LETT, gangly, grim, and NOVACEK, a wiry guy in a baseball cap start setting up what looks to be a high-tech missile launcher. The fourth man is.
MR. PRITCHETT: A neatly groomed man, 40s, with a perpetually sour attitude. He looks like and is a lawyer.
PRITCHETT: ( to Baker, re: Jim in
FIRE ): Jesus. Do you think maybe you could get him out of the fire? Unless you like that smell.
DEAKINS: ( thinks of something ) Weren't you going to call Taylor today about the Aurora Project?
HALE: Yeah. Turns out he wants people with more fighter hours.
DEAKINS: What'd you say?
HALE: What could I say?
DEAKINS: Jesus. You are such a pussy. You never fight for anything. Hale is stung. Pissed, he goes on the offensive.
HALE: Yeah, well you know what your problem is?
DEAKINS: Because I said what your problem is, you're gonna?
HALE: You fight too much. ( Deakins look at him ) Right? You said it yourself you should be at least Wing Commander by now. Maybe you would be if you didn't insist on telling people what they're doing wrong all the time.
DEAKINS: I'm usually right though, aren't I? Hale shakes his head, grins. Deakins clicks on his mike.
DEAKINS: Ghost 7 to McMurran. Hey, Wilkins, you old bag of dirt, your boys in Utah still awake?
WILKINS: Ready and waiting, Mr. Deakins. And tell our favorite hotshot, he's not gonna lose us tonight.
DEAKINS: Wilkins says you won't lose them Tell Colonel Wilkins I could fly this puppy up his ass without him ( grins, shakes his head; into helmet
HALE: Tell Colonel Wilkins I could fly this puppy up his ass without him ( grins, shakes his head; into helmet
DEAKINS: ( grins, shakes his head; into helmet
MIKE ): Hale says . if anyone can catch him it'd be you.
WILKINS: Everyone get a fix! They're about to turn out the lights!
DEAKINS: Ready, Major?
HALE: On your word.
DEAKINS: Go to war.
THE COCKPIT: everything goes quiet.
WILKINS: Lost 'em on active! Who's still got 'em?
IR CREWMAN: Got their heat signature, sir. ( points to computer
SCREEN ): Their engines may be cold, but the air is colder.
DEAKINS: Descend to 400 feet AGL. River valley approach.
HALE: Airspeed lock at point-seven Mach. Blue line descent on throttle to 400 feet AGL. Hale pulls back on the throttle. The plane descends.
HALE: Time to limbo down. How low can we go.
TERRY CARMICHAEL: Pretty, late 20s. Her radio squawks.
TERRY: ( grabs mike, answers ) No. Why?
TERRY: Oh, God. What is it this time? UFO abduction? Ritual human CLYDE ( V.0. ) She said she saw a bunch of trucks going through the Needles entrance an hour ago and thought they looked suspicious.
TERRY: Yes, well, this is a woman who chopped off one of her own fingers because it'd "turned on her."
TERRY: ( arches eyebrow ) She was probably hallucinating, but I'll check it out.
IR CREWMAN: Lost 'em.
WILKINS: Stay on it. They're gonna have to come up for air sooner or later.
DEAKINS: We're under the radar. Proceed to primary target. Hale hits a button, lets go of the stick they're on autopilot. It's a moment of peace. Hale looks out.
HALE: I tell people I became a pilot because I wanted to fly cool planes. It's also for this. When we're up here, I feel. closer . I don't know.
DEAKINS: To God? Is that what you're going to say? That you feel closer to God up here?
DEAKINS: Hale, take a look out your side. I think our terrain following is off. It's got us two klicks from the left flank ridge. Hale turns to look out the window on his side.
HALE'S POV: Looking out the window. There's some movement in the reflection in the glass. QUICK PULL FOCUS to see, distorted in the curve of the window, Deakins reaching inside his flight suit.
HALE: Turns his head back toward Deakins.
HALE: Deak, you can't smoke in here But then Hale sees it's not a cigarette that Deakins is pulling out of his flight suit. It's shiny, metal. It's.
A GUN: And Deakins levels it right at Hale's head and his finger starts to squeeze the trigger.
HALE: Grabs Deakins' hand, pushing up as.
DEAKINS: Pulls the trigger and the gun FIRES.
HALE: The bullet cuts a line through the top of his helmet, punching a hole in the window by his head.
THE BULLET: Tears through Hale's harness, blowing apart a shoulder strap.
THE PLANE: Is banking towards a ridge-line cliff wall.
HALE: Sees it, yanks on the stick.
THE PLANE: Banks hard away from the cliff, just missing.
HALE: He pulls at Deakins' arms.
TERRY: Clyde, tell Mrs. Parker that there's nothing weird going on. No truck, no UFOs, and, except for the odd human head on a stick, no sign of Satan. She feels it before she hears it or sees it.
THE GHOST: Rushes over Terry, no more than fifty feet above the ground. The jet-wash rocks the truck, almost knocks Terry down.
TERRY: Holy shit.
DEAKINS' HAND: AUTO to MANUAL. Deakins grabs Hale's EJECTION HANDLE.
DEAKINS: Suddenly lets go of Hale's hand, then hits Hale hard under the chin with the fire extinguisher.
HALE: His head snaps back as Deakins pulls.
HALE'S POV: As he rockets up out of the cockpit.
HALE: When the chute opens, he almost spills out because of the severed shoulder harness. He grabs the straps, holds on.
TERRY: Somebody ejected!
WILKINS: They're not due for another INT. GHOST COCKPIT Deakins yells into his helmet mike as he gets ready to eject.
DEAKINS: ( into helmet mike ) This is Deakins! Hale lost it! I have to punch out! Deakins pulls his second handle. BLAM! WHOOSH! He's gone. He hear and feel the plane dropping, screaming toward the earth.
WILKINS: That's not good.
THE HELICOPTER: And it lifts up and flies off.
RHODES: Hold it. Come back. The lights sweep back, find.
BAIRD: Enters. Baird, 60s, is the White House Chief of Staff. His assistant stays in the b.g. as Baird walks in.
BAIRD: So, do I wake the President?
CHAIRMAN: Where is he Las Vegas?
BAIRD: ( NODS ) Computer convention. Some information superhighway crap.
CHAIRMAN: Let him sleep for now. ( hands Baird a piece of paper ) We're going out with this. Rick's team prepared it. The chairman nods toward RICK. Baird reads, mumbling.
BAIRD: "United States Air Force . regrets to announce . C-130 heavy-lift cargo plane . down over the Utah desert . status of crew not determined at this time . yadda yadda . Nice bullshit, Baird hands it to Rick, who starts for the door.
GILES: Baird's intensely competent assistant.
BAIRD: Giles .?
GILES: Aviation Week has been following this plane's development for years. They have stringers who spend their vacations sitting in lawnchairs all night long by the Whiteman perimeter fence just in case one of these things takes off. The boys in those lawnchairs know one took off tonight. They're going to know when it doesn't come ( MORE ) GILES ( cont'd ) And when we put out a press release saying a C-130 went down in Utah, they're going to put two and two together. Aviation week will run a story, everyone'll know what really happened and we're going to look real stupid.
BAIRD: ( mock shock ) The truth? How the hell did you get this job? A few chuckles in the room. Baird looks at the Chairman well? The Chairman thinks for a second, nods. Baird turns to Rewrite it. What Giles just said. Rick grits his teeth and hurries out. Baird looks at Giles.
BAIRD: Rewrite it. What Giles just said. Rick grits his teeth and hurries out. Baird looks at Giles.
BAIRD: I want you in Utah. Now. Giles nods, heads out. Baird grabs his arm.
BAIRD: You scare me sometimes.
GILES: Hell, sir. Sometimes I scare And out Giles goes.
RHODES: ( into mike ) Cockpit's empty! We're checking the payload!
WILKINS: Watch your needles!
RHODES: ( into headset mike ) ( takes breath ) We've got ourselves a Broken Arrow.
BAIRD: Broken Arrow?
CHAIRMAN: That's what we call it when we lose a nuclear weapon.
BAIRD: Oh, Jesus. ( thinks, shakes head ) I don't know what's scarier losing nuclear weapons or the fact that it happens so often that you people have a term for it.
WILKINS: Find the nukes, Sam. But be careful. I know they say those eggs can't be cracked, but if your geigers pick up more rads than you'd get off a toaster, I want you out of there. Wilkins to the CORPORAL.
WILKINS: Get the teams in. I want Colonel Rhodes and his men backed up.
BAIRD: They dropped from a plane but they didn't go off.?
CREELEY: They have to be armed to detonate.
BAIRD: Then they're destroyed?
CREELEY: ( shakes head ) They're designed to survive crashes intact. They can lie in a pool of burning jet fuel for five hours without any problem.
BAIRD: How did this happen?
CREELEY: In his last transmission, Colonel Deakins said Major Hale lost control. He probably hit weapons release by accident. Believe me, when a plane's auguring in, you start pushing every button you can. Baird stands, looks at a picture of a Ghost shakes his head.
BAIRD: Hell, we should take the cost of the plane out of major Hale's salary. Although I guess at two billion dollars a pop, that could take a while.
HALE: Spins, grabs the shirt of the figure and cocks his arm about to punch. He hesitates when he sees it's.
TERRY: She seizes Hale's hesitation and punches him hard.
HIS POV: Jarring, racing over rock and then.
HALE: Pulls up fast, almost not fast enough.
HALE'S POV: He's stopped right at the edge of a fifty foot drop.
TERRY: Is walking slowly, calmy, up behind Hale, pistol out.
TERRY: Turn around.
HALE: ( TURNING ) Look, I
TERRY: ( not interested ) Gimme your hands. Hale sticks his hands behind him. Terry handcuffs them.
HALE: I'm going to tell you something I can't tell you. Terry puts away her gun, spins Hale around and starts marching him off.
HALE: There were nuclear weapons on that plane. The guy I was flying with is trying to steal them. Terry reacts to that, but keeps Hale moving.
HALE: I have to stop him, and I need your help.
TERRY: ( STOPS ) Look, pal, all I know is, I saw you come down, I come in to help you and you grab me, kick me and run away.
HALE: I only ran because you punched me.
TERRY: What, we're ten years old now? "You started it. No you started He has men on the ground. I
HALE: He has men on the ground. I
TERRY: Save it. My dog's waiting for his Terry starts to push Hale along again and.
HALE: Jumps up and through the handcuffs.
TERRY: Reaches for her revolver, but.
HALE: Grabs it from her, puts it to-her head, but not before.
TERRY: Whips a knife from her belt and puts it under Hale's chin.
HALE: This isn't a stand-off, okay? I've got a gun.
TERRY: Yeah, well, I never keep my gun Terry taps her belt.
HALE: Moves fast, grabs Terry's knife hand, then kicks her legs out from under her. Hale lands on top of her, still holding her knife hand, putting the knife to her throat.
HALE: I'm telling you the truth.
TERRY: This is a good way to convince me.
HALE: I could kill you now. Right? Terry nods, bewildered and more than a little scared. Hale lets go of Terry's hand holding the knife.
HALE: I need your help. Terry looks at Hale for a long moment. She's still holding the knife. She exhales, then sticks the knife in the dirt.
RHODES: Got 'em!
TERRY: I've got a radio in the truck. We can call McMurran and get the Marines in here.
HALE: ( shakes head ) Deakins'll be monitoring any radio transmissions out of here. ( off her look ) That's what I'd do.
TERRY: Who is this guy?
HALE: ( a flash of the horrible betrayal he
FEELS ): Someone I would've trusted with my ( BEAT ) You've gotta get to a phone.
TERRY: Me? What are you going to do? ( no answer, she
REALIZES ): Wait. You're gonna go after this guy? Isn't he going to have a lot guns and shit? I don't want to sound insulting or anything, but . you're just a pilot.
HALE: I don't have any choice. The nukes are my responsibility. ( pulls something from
POCKET ): I do have one thing going for me.
TERRY: What's that? Hale sticks.
HALE: The last thing in the world he expects is for me to come after Hale walks off into the light of the rising sun. Terry looks at the $20 bill.
RHODES: ( into mike ) We've got one intact. ( to his men ) Let's go find the other one. Rhodes starts off along the bottom of the crevice.
A HUMVEE: climbs up the slope toward the helicopter.
MCKELLAR: Grabs his rifle, hops out of the helicopter.
NOVACEK: Hey, you guys need any help?
MCKELLAR: It's an Air Force training exercise, sir. I'm going to have to ask you to leave.
NOVACEK: Hey, no problem. We just
LETT: Whips out a silenced rifle and shoots.
MCKELLAR: Barely has time to raise his rifle before he's hit. He drops.
ANOTHER HUMVEE: Drives up fast.
NOVACEK: Picks up McKellar's half-eaten candy bar, takes a bite.
BAKER: ( to Novacek ) Any sign of Deakins? Novacek, mouth full, shakes his head.
PRITCHETT: He better be dead.
DEAKINS: Walk out of the shadows, smoking a cigarette. While soldierly with his men, Deakins is courteous and polite with Pritchett.
PRITCHETT: You said nothing would go wrong!
DEAKINS: Well, point of fact, nothing has.
PRITCHETT: You didn't drop the nukes where you were supposed to!
DEAKINS: Ah, but we always planned on the search and rescue team finding the weapons for us, and they have. Mr. Pritchett, I really have thought of everything. Johnson walks up, pointing to his radio headgear.
JOHNSON: Newsflash. Two gunships just left from McMurran and they're headed this way.
PRITCHETT: You thought of that?
DEAKINS: That'll take care of itself.
PRITCHETT: What about the other pilot? We saw him eject.
DEAKINS: You don't have to worry about Major Hale. He's probably hiding behind a rock somewhere, praying I don't find him.
JOHNSON: Someone else might find him. ( off Deakins' look ) A Ranger called her base, said she saw a pilot come down and was gonna go look for him. Deakins thinks it over, turns to Novacek.
DEAKINS: Get ready. You'll go when the clean-up's done. Novacek nods, goes to the helicopter. Ext. Canyonlands - 4wd trail Hale and Terry are hurrying along a 4WD trail toward Terry's truck. Terry taken a look at Hale's ripped and torn flightsuit.
TERRY: Is that the new uniform?
HALE: Yeah. Less constricting.
TERRY: The dayshift guy left some work clothes in the truck. You can have them if you want. Hale nods. His feet crunch on something.
TERRY: Don't walk there.
HALE: Don't walk where?
TERRY: On that black stuff. That's cryptogamic soil. It's very fragile. One footprint takes centuries to repair.
HALE: That's a new one. Endangered dirt. Terry gives Hale a look.
RHODES: Hello? McMurran? Come in. Suddenly, there's a soft popping sound and Reed drops.
RHODES: Reed? What the ? Rhodes looks down, sees blood on Reed. Before he can say another word, there's a fusillade of soft popping sounds as silenced bullets ricochet off the rock around them. Thomas goes INT. MCMURRAN CONTROL CENTER Silence from the speakers.
WILKINS: Sam? Sam, are you there? Sam?
RHODES: Raises his pistol and shoots at the source of the laser.
RHODES: We'll open up the access panels, put in a couple grenades. The nukes won't go nuclear, but they will go dirty. I won't lie and say we'll be all right. We won't. But if we're gonna go, might as well take those bastards with us. Rhodes scrambles off.
KELLY: Just one thing, sir.
RHODES: ( TURNS ) Kelly opens fire with his rifle. Rhodes is thrown back, dead. Kelly yells up top.
KELLY: Kelly opens fire with his rifle. Rhodes is thrown back, dead. Kelly yells up top.
KELLY: Kelly grabs the rope, climbs fast.
KELLY: Climbs into view.
WILKINS: Who is this?
WILKINS: What happened, Kelly?
KELLY: Colonel Rhodes is dead, sir! They're all dead!
KELLY: It's the nuke, sir! It's open! Wide open! Oh, God, what am I going to do?! Deakins puts the shaver to the mike again more static. He reaches into the helicopter and flips off the COM LINK switch, then backs away, shaving. He nods to Novacek, who fires up the INT. MCMURRAN CONTROL CENTER Wilkins slumps in his chair.
WILKINS: Call back the teams and get me the Room. We're gonna need NEST in EXT. CREVICE SITE Novacek lifts off in the helicopter and flies away. Deakins turns to Kelly and applauds his performance.
DEAKINS: Brought a tear to my eye.
KELLY: I'd just like to thank the members of the Academy.
PRITCHETT: ( to Deakins ) I hope you've got another surprise up your sleeve. If I'm not mistaken, there are two attack helicopters headed this way.
JOHNSON: Not any longer. They look at him; he taps his radio headgear.
JOHNSON: They've just been recalled.
DEAKINS: You see, Mr. Pritchett, they think they've got an exposed core. They'll want to get a satellite to take a look, but it'll take ninety minutes minimum to shift the orbit. Until then? Well, people get a little weird when it comes to radiation. No one'll have the balls to come near here unless it's NEST the Nuclear Emergency Search Teams and it'll take the nearest team at least two hours to get out here, and we only need an hour to reach our connection with the transport squad.
HALE: What's your dog's name?
TERRY: Bear. I was going to call him Death, so I could say things like, "I walk with Death," and "Death chewed my boots," but I chickened out. You?
HALE: No dog.
TERRY: Do you have a name, or is that Before Hale can answer.
THE TRUCK: is riddled with bullets and explodes.
HALE: We've gotta hide!
TERRY: Follow me! Terry leads Hale up a short slope. Hale scrambles over the top and is stunned. Terry runs out onto an open expanse no cover.
HALE: Hide where?
HALE: Looks at the helicopter as the bullets whistle in. When he turns back, Terry's gone.
HALE: What the ?
NOVACEK'S POV: Aiming at Hale's back. But then Hale suddenly drops from view.
HALE: Arms flailing, drops fifteen feet, to deep sand.
TERRY: This way. Terry runs. Hale follows.
HALE: How do you ?
TERRY: ( looks back, still
RUNNING ): I'm a Ranger. I've been over these trails a million times. Not looking, Terry runs straight into a wall, smacks her head and drops like a rock.
TERRY: Please don't tell anyone I did IN THE HELICOPTER Novacek has a box of grenades beside him. He pulls the pin on a grenade and drops it.
THE HELICOPTER: Chases them, strafing them. BOOM! a grenade goes off in front of them. They run back. They're cornered. Hale looks around, looks up.
HALE: Can you climb up?
TERRY: Yeah .?
HALE: Give me your gun.
NOVACEK: Who sees her.
TERRY: Pull herself up, stands, hands up.
THE HELICOPTER: Novacek swivels the helicopter around.
TERRY: This has nothing to do with me.
NOVACEK: Tell me where he is!
HALE: Is down in the fissure, pointing the revolver straight up at the helicopter hovering right overhead, figuring out where to shoot.
HALE: Blackhawk . Moved pilot seat back a foot . Puts him right about . here. Hale hesitates he's never shot at someone before then takes a breath and starts shooting.
THE HELICOPTER: Starts to lean over sideways.
HALE: Is surprised it worked!'
TERRY: Watches in horror as.
TERRY: Dives and rolls over the edge of the cliff as.
TERRY: Looks up.
PRITCHETT: We don't have to worry about the other pilot? Deakins shakes his head.
PRITCHETT: Then how come the helicopter ( a flicker of worry ) Pilot error. Deakins turns and walks away, over to.
DEAKINS: ( a flicker of worry ) Pilot error. Deakins turns and walks away, over to.
PRITCHETT: Tell me again how I don't need to be here.
DEAKINS: Mr. Pritchett, I understand your concerns. You and your associates gave me a lot of money to mount this operation. But they're getting ten times that back if we If we succeed?
PRITCHETT: If we succeed?
DEAKINS: All I can do is my part. We've got the weapons, we're . ( checks watch ) . seventeen minutes ahead of schedule and everything will be in place within two hours. But I can't guarantee that the assholes in Washington won't do something stupid like not pay.
PRITCHETT: What if they don't?
DEAKINS: Then the next census for this region is going to show a very sudden drop in population.
GILES: Colonel Wilkins? I'm Giles ( they shake hands ) My word from your search and rescue team?
WILKINS: I'm sorry. Picked up any Wilkins shakes his head.
GILES: I'm sorry. Picked up any Wilkins shakes his head.
GILES: That's kind of strange if there's an exposed core out there.
WILKINS: Probably nothing. I asked for a transcript of the last cockpit Wilkins nods to a CORPORAL who hands some papers to Giles. Giles reads them quickly.
GILES: Probably nothing. I asked for a transcript of the last cockpit Wilkins nods to a CORPORAL who hands some papers to Giles. Giles reads them quickly.
WILKINS: I don't know what you expect to CU TRANSCRIPTS We see COLONEL DEAKINS: "This is Deakins! Hale lost it! Oh, God! I have to punch out!"
CU TRANSCRIPTS: We see COLONEL DEAKINS: "This is Deakins! Hale lost it! Oh, God! I have to punch out!"
GILES: You know these guys? The pilots?
WILKINS: Just on the radio. Never met 'em. ( looks up ) What if this wasn't pilot error?
GILES: ( looks up ) What if this wasn't pilot error?
BAIRD: No rhetorical questions, Giles. Spit it out.
GILES: In the last transmission from the plane, Colonel Deakins said Major Hale lost it and made the plane crash. We all assumed that meant pilot error. But what if Deakins meant Hale made the plane crash. Murmurs of "That's insane" "No way" fill the room.
BAIRD: Why would he do that?
GILES: Two nuclear weapons would be worth a hell of a lot of money.
CHAIRMAN: To whom? Son, there are easier ways for someone to buy nuclear weapons. You go to one of the old Soviet republics, you can get one for the price of a BMW.
GILES: I meant they'd be worth a lot of money to us. How much would we pay to get them back? To make sure they weren't used in this A flurry of looks around the room.
BAIRD: Hold on, hold on. ( to Creeley ) These nukes have codes or something that prevent people from using them.
CREELEY: Of course.
BAIRD: No one has these codes outside of the President and you guys.
CREELEY: Access to the codes requires the highest security
BAIRD: I mean, not even the pilots have these codes, right?
CHAIRMAN: ( to an assistant ) Where's that NEST team now?
ASSISTANT: They just took off.
HUNT: Listen up, sportsfans. Word is, this particular broken arrow has broken open. Our ETA Utah is ninety-six minutes. I want everyone to take that time to triple-check the seams and seals on their E-suits. Let's go!
GILES: You think I'm nuts. You don't think NEST or the satellite will find anything weird.
WILKINS: That's right.
HALE: How do they get out of here?
TERRY: Get out? I don't think that helicopter's going anywhere.
HALE: Deak'd have a back-up. He'd be If they've got trucks they could take the four-wheel-drive trail we were on.
TERRY: If they've got trucks they could take the four-wheel-drive trail we were on.
HALE: He wouldn't want to go towards He could go to the river. Hale looks at Terry that's exactly what Deakins would do.
TERRY: He could go to the river. Hale looks at Terry that's exactly what Deakins would do.
DEAKINS: You a fan of boxing, Mr. Pritchett?
PRITCHETT: I think it's barbaric.
DEAKINS: Me, too! I love it! Two men trying to do as much damage to the other as he can. As basic as you can get, don't you think?
PRITCHETT: I think it should be banned.
DEAKINS: So do I! God, wouldn't that make it more exciting? Having to go into dark alleys and basements to see a fight? I bet we see eye-to- eye on a lot of things, Mr. Deakins grins; Mr. Pritchett steams.
THEIR POV: The two Humvees make their way along the trail.
HALE: See the one in front? It just has a driver? They wanted to keep the weight down. It has the nukes. Hale takes Terry's gun from her.
TERRY: You gonna shoot out the tires?
HALE: Humvees can reseal and inflate with the flick of a switch. That's why Deak chose 'em. Terry looks at Hale then what is he going to do?
HALE: I'm gonna steal it. ( checks gun ) You get to a phone and call The nearest phone is a two-hour Then you better start walking.
TERRY: The nearest phone is a two-hour Then you better start walking.
HALE: Then you better start walking.
TERRY: Look, I know my way around here. You're gonna need me.
HALE: ( very serious ) I appreciate what you've done so far. But now it gets hairy. Go to the phone. He scrambles off over the rock.
THE HUMVEES: Come around a corner. The trail hugs the face of a ten-foot- high cliff. Suddenly, from off the cliff.
HALE: Flying. He lands hard behind the Humvee.
DEAKINS: Run him down.
HALE: Sprints after the leading Humvee. Deakins' Humvee closes fast.
TERRY: Looks back, sees Hale's predicament.
TERRY: She slides the pistol along the truck roof.
HALE: Grabs the gun out of the air as.
BAKER: Slams on the brakes.
TERRY: Comes flying off the top, landing on the hood, barely holding on.
HALE: Is going to be crushed between the Humvees. He jumps up, turning, as the bumpers come together. He lands on the tailgate facing backwards and fires into Deakins' windshield.
HALE: Is behind him. Hale gets into the passenger seat.
HALE: Gimme the gun and get out.
BAKER: ( SMIRKING ) I don't know. I think we got ourselves a little stand-off.
HALE: No, we don't. Hale shoots Baker in the thigh. Baker howls.
TERRY: Reaches forward and grabs Baker's gun as.
HALE: Kicks Baker out of the Humvee.
BAKER: Bad timing for him. He tumbles out, right in front of.
DEAKINS' HUMVEE: And is run over.
HALE: Holds the steering wheel, yells to Terry.
HALE: You drive!
TERRY: Climbs into the Humvee, takes the wheel from Hale. She jams Baker's gun into her belt.
HALE: I'd yell at you for coming after me, but you did just save my life.
DEAKINS: What're you doing, Hale?
A FLARE: Out of the tool kit.
KELLY: Maybe he'll set off a nuke. That'd show us.
DEAKINS: But it's too late and.
DEAKINS: Coolly grabs a fire extinguisher and starts spraying.
HALE: We need somewhere to hide.
TERRY: ( THINKS ) I know a place.
TERRY: It was a copper mine, barely squeaking along for years. They shut it-down a few months ago when they hit an underground river. The hinges on the metal doors buckle and snap and the doors rip loose. Hale shuts down the winch, unhooks it from the doors. He motions for Terry to drive it in.
HALE: They hardwired in their frequency. We can't call out.
TERRY: What are we gonna do? Hale goes to the back of the Humvee, pulls down the tailgate.
HALE: I'm gonna take away Deakins' reason for being here. Hale grabs a screwdriver from the tool kit and pries open a panel on the side of one of the B-83s.
INSIDE PANEL: There's an LCD DISPLAY, a NUMERIC KEYPAD and a CLOCK showing the current time. The keys are oversized and brightly colored.
TERRY: Fisher-Price makes nuclear weapons?
HALE: They're designed to be used by guys wearing gloves in Alaska. He reaches in, hits a key and the LCD display lights up.
HALE: These nukes have security codes. If you enter the wrong code three times, the nuke goes dead all the circuitry shorts out and shuts down. Kind of like the security systems with car radios.
TERRY: And people say the public doesn't benefit from defense spending.
HALE: ( GRINS ) Hand me the radio. Terry goes for the radio mike. Hale sees something.
HALE: Pulls it out, looks at it.
ECU NAMETAG: It's from "St. Judes Hospital, Radiology Department."
HALE: Where's St. Judes Hospital?
DEAKINS: Hey, there. What was that last part? There was some static. ( clicks off mike; to
JOHNSON ): Find them. ( to Pritchett and
KELLY ): Let's go! Johnson pulls out a radiation detector scanner like the one Rhodes used. Kelly and Pritchett get back in the vehicle.
HALE: I know you're stalling while you try to find the nukes with your scanner, but you're gonna be too late. Hear that? Hale holds the radio mike up to the keypad as he enters numbers.
HALE: I'm entering the wrong code, you bastard. A couple more times and these are gonna be useless to you.
DEAKINS: You really got me there. I sure didn't think of that. Hale slows down something's wrong Deakins doesn't cars.
DEAKINS: All that time we spent in the cockpit together and you think I'm stupid? I got some new boards and circuits from a friend at Pantex. But nice try. Hale curses to himself. Terry looks at him. He shakes his head they're in trouble.
DEAKINS: You know, Hale, I thought of asking you to join me on this. You wanna know why I didn't?
HALE: Because I would've said no?
DEAKINS: I would've just killed you if you said no. I was more afraid you'd say yes. Because I knew I couldn't count on you. You can pretend you've got guts, but when and if it comes down to it, you're gonna run off crying like a little You better hope that's true, Doak. Because I've got the nukes, and there's nothing to stop me from entering the right code, if you know what I mean.
HALE: You better hope that's true, Doak. Because I've got the nukes, and there's nothing to stop me from entering the right code, if you know what I mean.
DEAKINS: ( flash of worry ) You wouldn't do that.
HALE: Nah. You're right. I wouldn't have the guts. END SPLIT-SCREEN. Hale drops the mike; looks at the elevator.
HALE: How deep is this mine?
TERRY: I don't know. A couple thousand That's deep enough. Hale opens the elevator gate.
HALE: That's deep enough. Hale opens the elevator gate.
TERRY: For what?
HALE: A nuclear explosion. Terry's jaw drops.
JOHNSON: Got it! They're
DEAKINS: In the mine. ( off their looks ) I could tell he was inside something. There was an echo.
TERRY: We can still hide them!
HALE: He's got a scanner. He'd find You're talking about setting off a nuclear weapon!
TERRY: You're talking about setting off a nuclear weapon!
HALE: They set them off underground in Nevada all through the fifties and sixties. There's no risk.
TERRY: Tell it to the two-headed cows. Hale grabs the straps around one of the nukes, pulls. He can barely move the thing. He turns to Terry.
TERRY: No! I am not helping you set off a nuclear weapon.
HALE: We won't be down there when it goes off. This isn't a suicide ( IMPATIENT ) All right. Fine. Though I think you should know, before I ejected, I heard Deakins say the nukes were going to be used to wipe out the last few remaining handicapped gay Terry looks at him you asshole. Hale looks at her, very I need your help. Terry thinks, shakes her head, steps up and grabs the nuke.
TERRY: ( IMPATIENT ) All right. Fine. Though I think you should know, before I ejected, I heard Deakins say the nukes were going to be used to wipe out the last few remaining handicapped gay Terry looks at him you asshole. Hale looks at her, very I need your help. Terry thinks, shakes her head, steps up and grabs the nuke.
HALE: ( IMPATIENT ) All right. Fine. Though I think you should know, before I ejected, I heard Deakins say the nukes were going to be used to wipe out the last few remaining handicapped gay Terry looks at him you asshole. Hale looks at her, very I need your help. Terry thinks, shakes her head, steps up and grabs the nuke.
HALE: I need your help. Terry thinks, shakes her head, steps up and grabs the nuke.
HALE: When we get to the bottom we'll have to get away from this shaft. It'll limit the amount of radiation released into-the EXT. MINE ENTRANCE Deakins's Humvee comes into the clearing. The Humvee stops and Deakins and Kelly jump out, followed by Pritchett and Johnson.
TERRY: We'll each drag one down a tunnel?
HALE: No. I'm only going to set off one. We'll leave the other one here. It'll be buried under a billion tons of rock. They are startled when the elevator starts going up behind them
HALE: We better hurry. ( nods down tunnel ) Let's try down there.
PRITCHETT: I can't wait to see how this fits into your plan. Deakins' charm peels away for an instant and he fixes Pritchett with a stare. Pritchett shrinks back.
CREELEY: This is the KH-12 satellite's infrared view of the area. An exposed nuclear core would be relatively hot it'd show as a circle of bright white. As you can see, there's nothing. The only heat signatures we found were The image changes. There are four blotches, glowing a dull red.
BAIRD: What's ?
CREELEY: We think it's Colonel Rhodes and his men. Their bodies. A look between Baird and the Chairman. The Chairman reaches for a phone.
WILKINS: I understand, sir.
GILES: ( WHISPERS ) Was I right? Wilkins nods. Giles grins smugly for about half a second, then realizes what it really means.
GILES: Oh, shit.
WILKINS: ( into phone ) I've got ten ships ready to go . We should be hearing from NEST any minute now.
TERRY: How do you know how to do this?
HALE: Pilots who fly with nuclear weapons have standing orders to . ( quoting from the
MANUAL ): . "retrieve if possible, disable if necessary and destroy if we must," and destroy I must. He stands, looks around. He sees.
EYEBOLTS: Screwed into the cross beaus on the ceiling.
HALE: I'm gonna need your belt and one of your socks.
KELLY: Send it up?
DEAKINS: ( shakes head ) Let's take care of Hale first. Spread out.
TERRY: Take your time. Really. Hale has pushed the open end of the sock through the eyebolt. He tightens a belt around the open end of the sock.
HALE: Terry lets Hale down. Hale picks up a big rock and loops the free end of the belt around it. Then he picks up a smaller rock.
HALE: We make a small hole in the sock, and when enough sand drains out and we're hopefully in New Mexico the sock is pulled through the eyebolt, the rock ( re: smaller rock ) . hitting the rock on this chip, closing the firing circuit and that's it. Hale finishes putting the small rock in position. He stands.
TERRY: How much time are we going to have?
HALE: I don't know precisely. This isn't a Swiss sock. Ten minutes, Hale is cut off by.
BULLETS: Flying in, ricocheting off the rock walls, fired by.
JOHNSON: Thirty yards down the tunnel.
THE SOCK: One of Johnson's bullets cuts through it.
HALE: Feels sand hitting his face, looks up.
HIS POV: Sand is draining out of the sock very fast.
TERRY: Come on!
HALE: The sock More bullets. Terry pulls Hale. They run down a side passage. Hale and Terry fire back at Johnson as they run out of sight.
JOHNSON: Shoots after them, then runs up to the weapon. He reaches for the rock, stops maybe that'll set it off.
THE SOCK: The last sand pours out; the sock is sucked through the eye-bolt.
THE ROCK: Drops fast toward the nuke.
A HAND: Grabs it, stopping it just in time. The hand belongs to.
DEAKINS: He looks at Johnson in disgust, exhales, and tosses the rock. He pulls out a walkie-talkie, clicks on, talks into it.
DEAKINS: We're at the end of tunnel three. ( clicks off; to
JOHNSON ): You two get this one set. I'll take the other one up.
TERRY: What do we do?
HALE: Beat 'em back to the elevator. Stop 'em from getting out. Terry nods. They hurry off around a corner and are met by.
DEAKINS: With his Uzi.
DEAKINS: Slows down.
DEAKINS: The bit with the sock was good. I like it. Still, I'm gonna use the the Field Expedient Tactical Timer. It's a little more precise.
DEAKINS: I need a demonstration. Otherwise, some swinging dick in Washington is going to say I don't have the balls or the ability to set off a nuclear weapon. I'm gonna show these puppies I'm ready, willing and able. Hell, I'm eager. Deakins jams in his clip, walks into the dark part of the tunnel.
DEAKINS: Opens fire but not at Hale and Terry at the cable along the ceiling connecting the lights. The cable snaps and electrical sparks shoot out, flooding the tunnel with light, HALE AND TERRY Suddenly exposed to Deakins' fire. The bullets whiz in.
DEAKINS: The muzzle flashes from his Uzi give away his position and Hale and Terry's bullets scream in at him. He backs around a corner.
DEAKINS: Well, Hale, I better be going. Look at it this way, partner. If you wanted to get closer to God, you are about to get your wish. Hale hears Deakins' footsteps start off.
HALE: You're gonna ransom Salt Lake City, aren't you? The footsteps stop.
DEAKINS: What makes you think that?
HALE: That's where St. Judes Hospital is. You're gonna hide the nukes near the radiology department so they won't show up an any satellite radiation scans.
DEAKINS: I'm impressed.
HALE: How much are you gonna ask for?
DEAKINS: Enough. I've got a broker in Stockholm. Monday morning he's going to buy me five percent of Volvo. For the rest of my days I'm going to live off the dividends, happy in the knowledge I'm helping to build the safest car in the world.
HALE: So that's it? You're just doing 'this for the money? I'm kind of Why would you do it, Hale?
DEAKINS: Why would you do it, Hale?
HALE: That's the thing I wouldn't.
DEAKINS: If you were me.
HALE: If I were you.? ( thinks, starts in ) Because . because I got passed over for promotion and goddamnit I'm going to show the bastards that I'm smarter than them all. ( getting angry ) Because . everyone's selling out and cashing in, so why not me?
GRINS ): It's all bullshit, Deak. There are no reasons. Not really. There's no difference between you and the guy who shoots up the schoolyard with an M-16. You both think you have reasons. You both think you were wronged. The truth? You're both just fucked in the head.
DEAKINS' FACE: Grim, evil fades into darkness as he turns and walks off.
THE TIMER: Starts ticking down from ton minutes.
DEAKINS: Mr. Pritchett!
THE ELEVATOR: Comes down.
JOHNSON: Is shot, drops.
KELLY: Grabs Johnson's Uzi and, firing both guns, backs to the elevator, kicks open the gate with his foot and gets inside. He hits the UP button with the butt of one of the guns and the elevator starts to rise.
TERRY: We can go back, try to shut it We don't know the code, and Deak'd have it wired to blow if we so much as look at it funny.
HALE: We don't know the code, and Deak'd have it wired to blow if we so much as look at it funny.
TERRY: Then we're. Hale looks at her.
HALE: I'm sorry. I shouldn't've let you Oh, God. Hale takes Terry in his arms, holds her.
TERRY: Oh, God. Hale takes Terry in his arms, holds her.
TERRY: I . I just hope someone remembers to feed my dog. Hale nods, hugs Terry. Terry starts to say something else, but Hale puts a finger to his lips he's heard something a distant rushing.
HALE: Come on. Hale pulls Terry, running, down the far tunnel.
TERRY: What're you ?
HALE: You said they shut down the mine when they hit an underground river.
HUNT: Ten o'clock! In the clearing!
HIS POV: The blackened Humvee and Deakins by the mine entrance.
THEIR POV: Dark water rushes by ten feet below them.
HALE: Any idea where it goes?
TERRY: They look at each other. They don't have any choice. They flick on their flashlights and jump. They-hit the water and are swept from view.
DEAKINS: Get in. We're leaving.
PRITCHETT: ( re: Kelly and
JOHNSON ): Aren't you going to wait for them?
DEAKINS: No time. And if they get out, they might talk. Fortunately, there's something wrong with the Deakins opens fire with his Uzi on the generator. Sparks fly and the thing shuts down.
KELLY: Wrong person to screw with, Deak.
KELLY: I know the goddamn code, asshole. He grabs the cable trailing off below the elevator and starts sliding down it into the darkness.
STALACTITES: Jutting down like knives, ready-to rip then open.
THE CEILING: Is getting lower, getting closer to the surface of the water. They're running out of breathing room. Three feet, two feet, one foot. They take big breaths, maybe their last, and Tumbling along, pulled at by the eddies, flashlights showing their faces they are running out of air. And then, there's light above them in the water.
UNDERWATER: Tumbling along, pulled at by the eddies, flashlights showing their faces they are running out of air. And then, there's light above them in the water.
PRITCHETT: Is holding on tight as Deakins drives wildly.
PRITCHETT: I think I've finally figured out your plan. Those guys in the helicopter are going to kill us, but we're going to rise from the dead and
DEAKINS: Very suddenly and very violently lashes out. The side of his hand hits Pritchett in the throat.
PRITCHETT: Gags silently, suddenly unable to get any air. He pulls at his throat, even pounds himself in the back of the neck. No go. He slowly slumps, dying, skin turning blue.
DEAKINS: Maybe now you'll shut up.
DEAKINS: I just realized I've never killed anyone before. I mean, I dropped bombs on Baghdad, but never face to face.
SHRUGS ): I don't know what the big deal is.
KELLY: Runs up, starts entering numbers into the timer keypad.
HUNT: Let him know we're here!
DEAKINS: Grins, steps on the brakes.
KELLY: Punches in the last two numbers of the code then ENTER.
KELLY: Sits back on the floor, takes a breath.
DEAKINS' HAND: He's holding a small black box. He presses a button and.
THE TIMER: The red light goes out. The amber light comes on. A splitsecond later, the green light comes on.
KELLY: Oh shit. The screen goes white.
DEAKINS: Watching the helicopter, listening to Hunt over the loudspeaker.
THE GROUND: Rises up beneath Deakins.
HUNT: They plummet.
GILES: That's all we need. A goddamn Son, I was at the Nevada Test site in the fifties. That wasn't an EXT. 4WD TRAIL Deakins picks himself up.
WILKINS: Son, I was at the Nevada Test site in the fifties. That wasn't an EXT. 4WD TRAIL Deakins picks himself up.
DEAKINS: ( to himself ) At least I know they work.
WILKINS: ( into phone ) Get me the Room.
GILES: I have to get out of here.
WILKINS: You're going to be fine. It was ( into phone ) Colonel Wilkins for General How do you know?
GILES: How do you know?
WILKINS: For one thing, if it was above ground, it wouldn't have caused the same kind of ground tremor. For another, if it was above ground, we'd all be blind and ( into phone ) Sir, we've just had a detonation.
BAIRD: How'd that happen?
CHAIRMAN: I don't know, but thank God it happened underground.
BAIRD: What do we do now?
CHAIRMAN: First thing we do is put a huge goddamn lid on this thing. With all due respect to your boy Giles and his belief in honesty as the best policy, from now on and until the end of time, what happened in Utah tonight was an earthquake. All right? Baird nods.
DEAKINS: The helicopter? It was hit by EMP. Electromagnetic pulse. It's released in a nuclear detonation. It wipes out anything electronic for miles. That"s another reason I wanted to set off a nuke. I knew it'd bring down any helicopters coming for us. It'll also shut down all radio communications for a few hours, which will severely screw up their ( GRINS ) You see, Mr. Pritchett? There really is nothing for you to worry Pritchett's body seems to nod from the motion of the Humvee.
BUTTERFLIES: Hover and dance over the water in the early morning light.
HALE: Hale has his shirt off and is wringing it out.
TERRY: Stupid buttons. I hate these shirts. They're ugly and stupid Terry suddenly starts crying. It's not the shirt she's upset about. Hale holds her.
HALE: It's okay.
TERRY: We just . I mean, we almost.
HALE: I know.
TERRY: A nuclear bomb went off.
HALE: That it did.
TERRY: Are we.?
HALE: ( points at
BUTTERFLIES ): If the butterflies are okay, then we'll be okay.
TERRY: Absolutely. It says so in the manual. "If you see butterflies after a detonation, you are fine." Terry looks at Hale. She knows he's bullshitting her, but she appreciates it. They look at each other. They could kiss . but they both shy away from it. Terry gets her shirt off.
HALE: Absolutely. It says so in the manual. "If you see butterflies after a detonation, you are fine." Terry looks at Hale. She knows he's bullshitting her, but she appreciates it. They look at each other. They could kiss . but they both shy away from it. Terry gets her shirt off.
HALE: We better get moving. We might be able to reach Deakins when he gets to the river. They start off along a trail by the river.
HALE: Something I've been meaning to ask. ( Terry looks at him ) How did someone like you end up with a gun?
TERRY: I hit a bankrobber with a frozen Excuse me?
HALE: Excuse me?
TERRY: I came out here one summer during college. It was the campaign to stop the dam in the Grand Canyon. I loved it here. I came back, worked as a river guide and eventually stayed year-round. When a Park Ranger job came open, I I'm still waiting for the chicken.
HALE: I'm still waiting for the chicken.
TERRY: The local Parks Department wasn't sure how I'd do with the law enforcement part of the job. Well, one night I was coming home from the store and Tommy Drewson part of the local brain trust was robbing old Bob Kearney in front of the ATM. I bear old Bob yelling and I see Tommy heading for his car, so I tossed a bag of groceries at him at thirty miles an hour. A frozen chicken in the bag hit him in the forehead and he dropped like a rock. Next thing I know, I'm a Ranger. Hale looks at Terry with a new appreciation.
THEIR POV: A zodiac raft has been pulled up on the river bank. A man with an Uzi SHEPPARD waits, duffel bag by his feet.
TERRY: Get me a frozen Zacky's fryer and he's a dead man. There's the sound of an approaching engine. Sheppard stands, gun ready. The engine stops. A few seconds later.
DEAKINS: Appears, walking down a footpath toward Sheppard.
SHEPPARD: Where is everyone?
DEAKINS: I am everyone. Let's go. Sheppard hurries to Deakins. They disappear up the footpath.
HALE: We're the only ones who know what's going on, and I don't have the faintest idea how we're gonna stop them.
TERRY: We're the only ones who know what's going on, and I don't have the faintest idea how we're gonna stop them.
HALE: We're the only ones who know what's going on, and I don't have the faintest idea how we're gonna stop them.
TERRY: You'll think of something.
HALE: Why do you say that?
TERRY: You have so far. Hale looks at Terry she's right. But it almost pisses him off more than it gives him confidence. He grumbles to himself and starts off down toward the raft.
TERRY: Sink it?
HALE: Steal it. They get down to the raft. They climb in. Hale grabs the engine throttle, slumps.
HALE: Hale looks around, spots Sheppard's duffel bag lying on the riverbank. He hops out and starts rummaging through it when they hear grunting and feet approaching. Hale looks around for a place to hide. There isn't any. Terry tries to get out of the raft, but she trips on a tarpaulin bunched on the bottom of the raft. she drops.
THEIR POV: Of the raft. Hale and Terry are nowhere to be seen.
HALE: Is alone, in the water, on the far side of the raft, very silent. He hears Deakins and Sheppard load the nuke into the SHEPPARD ( O.S. ) Why were you driving around with a dead guy?
A TARP: Is lying on the deck of the raft along one side, all bunched up. It'd be the kind of thing you'd hide under.
DEAKINS: Grabs the tarp and pulls.
DEAKINS: Throws the tarp over the nuke. As he does, we PAN OVER to.
MAX: Your friends in Washington should be getting the package about now.
DEAKINS: I wish I could see their faces.
DEAKINS: . two-hundred-and-fifty million dollars, by nine a.m. Utah time. The depositing instructions are in the envelope that came with this tape. This deadline is not negotiable, and there is no grace period. The device is on a timer. Shortly after you receive this, the timer will be activated. At nine a.m., I will make a call. If I find out you've done as you've been told, I will stop the timer. If you have not complied The screen suddenly cuts to a flurry of images of nuclear destruction buildings being knocked sideways, mushroom clouds, shockwaves, fires.
CHAIRMAN: Turn that off!
A MARINA: Where houseboats are rented out. Hale's eyes focus on a sign with a picture of a phone on it.
TERRY: Jumps up from the raft and runs after the truck, staying right behind. She grabs a handhold and pulls herself up. She holds on tight as the truck bounces off down the dirt road.
BAIRD: Yes, sir. Creeley's phone rings. He answers it.
CREELEY: ( covers phone; to
BAIRD: ( covers phone; to
CHAIRMAN ): The President wants to know if we know where the device is headed.
CHAIRMAN: If Deakins had a plane waiting, it could be anywhere. We just don't I do. ( all eyes on him ) Major Hale is alive. According to him, Colonel Deakins is headed for Salt Lake City.
CREELEY: I do. ( all eyes on him ) Major Hale is alive. According to him, Colonel Deakins is headed for Salt Lake City.
WILKINS: We found the raft on the other side of the lake. Tracks from a heavy truck ran out when they hit the paved road.
HALE: If we get a rad scanner we can track them. A brief look between Wilkins and Giles.
WILKINS: Actually, Major, we're going back to McMurran.
HALE: We'd just like to ask you a few I'm not wasting time answering questions. We've got
GILES: We'd just like to ask you a few I'm not wasting time answering questions. We've got
HALE: I'm not wasting time answering questions. We've got
WILKINS: No debate, Major. I was given orders. Now, you can come with us, or you can go with them. Wilkins nods over at the other helicopter. The troops standing in front of it are MPs. Hale looks at Wilkins, astounded.
HALE: Deakins thinks I'm dead. He thinks it's over. You've got to let me go after him. I can help. I know how his mind works.
WILKINS: Major, I know this is personal for you, but I think we can handle it. We're putting a wall of men and machines around Salt Lake City as we speak. That truck is not getting through.
HALE: What about the Ranger?
GILES: What about her?
HALE: When you find that truck, you'll hit it hard. Chances are she'll be killed in the crossfire. "Regrettable but unavoidable."
HALE: Look, she's not supposed to be there. She should be checking camping permits, finding lost kids. She.
WILKINS: We were ordered to take you back to McMurran. You understand what orders are, don't you, Major? Wilkins turns away. Hale sits back, mind racing, not knowing what to do. He quickly grabs a pistol from the helicopter's weapons rack and puts it to Wilkin's neck.
WILKINS: Major, put that away or say goodbye to your career and hello to twenty years in Leavenworth.
HALE: If that's what it takes.
WILKINS: You'll have to shoot me. Hale thinks, but there's no way he can do that. He lowers the gun, sits back. Giles gets Hale's attention, then points to his own head. Hale doesn't understand, so Giles grabs Hale's gunhand and puts the gun up to his head.
GILES: Colonel! How about this? Wilkins looks back, sees Hale holding the gun to Giles' head.
HALE: ( bad acting ) I swear to God I'll shoot. Wilkins grins.
MAX: Ready when you are.
DEAKINS: Wait until I get back. I'm going to check on Sheppard. Deakins goes to a ladder that leads up to the ceiling.
WILKINS: I don't know what you're looking for, Major. Every road between here and salt Lake has already been sealed.
HALE: Deak would know that. Maybe he's not on the road. Wilkins doesn't understand.
HALE: They were using maps like these to set up the roadblocks?
WILKINS: Then that's the answer. Wilkins doesn't understand. Hale points outside, down at.
HALE: Then that's the answer. Wilkins doesn't understand. Hale points outside, down at.
TRAIN TRACKS: On the ground. Old ones, half-covered by weeds.
HALE: It's an old spur. Probably hasn't been used in twenty years. Nobody bothered to put it on the new maps.
WILKINS: What are you ?
HALE: The nuke isn't in a truck, Colonel. It's on a train.
DEAKINS: Climbs out and we discover that indeed they are not in a truck, they're in a train. The "nuke boxcar" has a small satellite dish mounted on the roof.
WILKINS: Radio's still down. We'll head north, look for a phone, then look for a train. Giles nods. Hale is thinking. Wilkins starts to tell the pilot.
HALE: No. Go south.
GILES: Salt Lake is north.
HALE: He's not going to Salt Lake.
GILES: But you said it would be Salt Lake. You found that hospital tag.
HALE: He planted that. He wanted whoever found it to think that's where he was going. ( Shakes head ) He's been doing a rope-a-dope. Giles and Wilkins look at him like he's nuts.
HALE: It's a boxing term. When Ali Look, I know this guy. If everything has been saying he's heading north, then he's heading They look at him, then Wilkins grabs the map.
WILKINS: What's south of here?
ECU MAP: Wilkins' finger follows the train line on the map. It goes right into Las Vegas.
HALE: No. Not Vegas. What the hell is there to blow up in Vegas? Wilkins' finger keeps moving on the map.
GILES: The President. Wilkins' finger stops.
TERRY: Crouching down between the two cars.
DEAKINS: How much longer?
SHEPPARD: Almost done.
TERRY: Creeps-up to one of the doors that lead into the driver's compartment. She hears.
DEAKINS: Five minutes. We'll leave from the boxcar roof.
TERRY: Is hiding on the other side of the engine, very quiet and still. As Deakins goes out the back door of the engine, Terry follows.
DEAKINS: As he puts a gun to the back of Terry's head.
WILKINS' HELICOPTER: Comes in, gets about three feet off the ground and Giles jumps out. As Giles runs to a payphone, the helicopter pulls up and flies away, leaving the Rancher agog.
DEAKINS: Terry, Max. Max, Terry.
MAX: ( to Terry ) A pleasure. ( to Deakins ) What the hell is a "Terry" and why is it still live?
DEAKINS: She asked me how I thought I was going to get away with this and I thought I'd tell her. ( to Terry ) We're going to a cabin in the mountains, not far from here. When we get there I'm gonna make two phone calls.
TERRY: You said two phone calls.
DEAKINS: The second will be to my bank in Geneva. If the money's in my account, I use this. ( pulls out what looks like a modified cell-
PHONE ): . and shut down the timer. If not, we sit back, put on some shades and get a quick tan.
TERRY: But radio isn't working.
DEAKINS: You saw the dish on the roof? Microwave. It's not affected by EMP. See? I really have thought of everything.
MAX: You kept her alive just so you can impress her with how smart you are?
DEAKINS: ( to Max ) No, I kept her alive because I want her to do me a favor. See, if something goes wrong and this thing goes off, a half a million people are going to be vaporized. I don't want that on my conscience. So I'm not going to arm the nuke.
HEAD ): She is.
CHAIRMAN: ( cut to the chase ) AIR FORCE ASSISTANT ( looks up, seared ) Two hundred and fifty thousand in the first few seconds. The same again within a year.
BAIRD: ( it sinks in ) Good God.
DEAKINS: Nine . Then pound . Good. Now six .
QUICK CUTS: Terry has visions of RETIREES in Vegas, watering potted plants outside their motor home, of TEENAGERS ragging on each other as they walk to school, of CHILDREN in a playground.
DEAKINS: Seven . Star . One.
DEAKINS: Then ENTER and it's done.
TERRY: Her finger hovers over the ENTER button, almost pushes it, then shifts to CANCEL and pushes that.
DEAKINS: Stunned. He shakes his head.
DEAKINS: Ooh. You really shouldn't have done that. I said I would kill you, and I will.
TERRY: I'm gonna be dead either way. I don't want any part of this. Deakins shrugs he sees her logic. He puts his gun to Terry's head. Terry shuts her eyes.
DEAKINS: Deakins is about to pull the trigger when Max stops him. Max gestures listen. They hear a helicopter approaching. Max checks his watch.
DEAKINS: They're early. Just then, they hear gunfire. Max gives Deakins a look.
DEAKINS: It's not a problem. Set the timer, then kill her. Have fun with it. Deakins starts climbing up the ladder to the hatch.
TERRY'S HAND: Rests on Max's tool tray. Her fingers creep over to a vrench.
MAX: Presses ENTER and finishes setting the timer.
MAX: TERRY AND MAX Terry swings hard and fast with the wrench, knocking the gun out of Max's hand. Max spins, and when Terry swings at him again. Max kicks the wrench out of her hand, then steps up fast and hits Terry under the chin with the heel of his hand. She drops straight back.
MAX: Thought I was just friendly old Max, huh? Lady, I was a Navy SEAL. You should see what I can do with just my thumb. Max goes for his gun.
TERRY'S HAND: Grabs onto something. It's the wrench.
TERRY: Yeah? Well, you should see what I can do with just a chicken.
HALE: That's him!
WILKINS: ( to pilot ) Get him!
PILOT: They've got guns!
WILKINS: You've got a helicopter. Use it!
THE HELICOPTER: Comes swooping in.
DEAKINS: Sees what's going to happen and turns and runs as.
THE HELICOPTER: Drops down beside the train. The rotor blades whip about three feet over the train roof and the pilot starts forward.
THE HELICOPTER: Closes fast.
DEAKINS: Jumps down between two boxcars and the rotor blades go right over his head. Deakins hears an awful sound and a scream cut HELICOPTER POV Swooping fast over the train when suddenly.
HELICOPTER POV: Swooping fast over the train when suddenly.
TERRY: Pops up out of the hatch, her back to the helicopter.
THE HELICOPTER: Pulls up fast.
TERRY: Watches the helicopter bank away. Bullets-start whizzing by her.
DEAKINS: Has climbed up and is shooting at her.
TERRY: Runs away from Deakins, shooting Max's pistol behind her blindly.
TWO GUNMEN: Appear two cars ahead of Terry and start toward her, shooting.
TERRY: Is caught between Deakins and the gunmen with no way out when.
THE HELICOPTER: Comes along the length of the train, flying low. It rises up and there's.
HALE: Hanging from the helicopter on a cable hooked to a harness and he's firing a pistol, shooting right over Terry at.
TERRY: The bullets rip up the boxcar roof around her. She jumps up and grabs onto.
HALE: As he swings in on the cable, shooting his pistol.
SHEPPARD: Appears, firing an Uzi at Hale, Terry and the helicopter.
SHEPPARD: Is hit and drops.
THE HELICOPTER: Banks away fast, making ugly sounds, smoke billowing out. The engine cuts out and the helicopter drops to a hard landing beside the tracks.
TERRY: You stop the nuke. I'll stop the Hale nods. Terry starts forward, then turns.
TERRY: I'd yell at you for coming after me, but you did just save my life. Hale grins. They hear a helicopter in the distance. They look over to see.
A MAN: Standing in the doorway of the Red Cross helicopter, holding a That's Deakins' escape route.
TERRY: That's Deakins' escape route.
HALE: Not any more. Terry nods. They share a last look, then Terry heads off. Male coils up the winch cable, slings it over his shoulder and heads for the nuke boxcar and his old friend Deakins. He picks up.
THE SHOTGUN: Left by deceased Gunman #2.
HALE: Standing, tugging on the cable, still attached to the harness. Hale racks a load in the shotgun and jumps back off the side of the train.
HALE: Swings into the boxcar on the cable, firing the shotgun.
THE GUNMAN: Is picked up by the blast and smashed back through the wood slat wall of the boxcar and out of the train.
DEAKINS: Climbs up fast through the hatch to the roof.
HALE: Shoots at Deakins, misses. The shotgun clicks empty. Hale tosses the gun then unhooks the cable from the harness. He drops to the floor-of the boxcar and runs to the ladder.
DEAKINS: Is reaching for the man's hand and grabs it when.
HALE: Reaches out of the hatch and grabs onto Deakins' foot.
THE HELICOPTER: Moves sideways over the train.
THE HELICOPTER: Moves back sideways over the train.
DEAKINS' POV: No sign of Hale on the train roof.
DEAKINS: Get us out of here!
THE PILOT: Nods and starts to lift and bank. Then he gets an odd expression. The helicopter isn't doing what he wants.
THE HELICOPTER: Is hovering over the train, but it can't fly away because.
HALE: Is hanging onto the skids and he's hooked the cable to the skid. The other end of the cable is still attached to the hatch.
THE HELICOPTER: Strains against the cable, but it doesn't snap.
DEAKINS: POWER LINES Cross the track, a quarter-mile ahead.
POWER LINES: Cross the track, a quarter-mile ahead.
DEAKINS: Leans out of the helicopter with his Uzi, shooting down at.
HALE: Who grabs onto the cable and slides down it to the roof of the train, bullets plugging in all around his. He jumps down through the hatch as.
DEAKINS: Sees what's coming and jumps.
THE HELICOPTER: THE POWER LIKES Which snap, shoot sparks and wrap around the helicopter's rotor.
THE HELICOPTER: Breaks up and flies apart as the train rolls on.
THE TOYOTA: INT. NUKE BOXCAR Hale gets to his feet, goes to look at the nuke.
HALE: Looks at it, trying to figure out how to disarm it. He hears the whoosh-thump of someone jumping down into the boxcar. He Stands there, trying to smile, trying to be cool, but.
DEAKINS: Stands there, trying to smile, trying to be cool, but.
DEAKINS: They would've paid and I would've stopped it. You've made a very, very big mistake.
HALE: It's over, Deak. I beat you. Disarm it.
DEAKINS: If it's over and you beat me, you disarm it.
HALE: Course you are going to need this. ( holds cell-phone
DEAKINS: Course you are going to need this. ( holds cell-phone
REMOTE ): All you have to do is get it. ( puts remote in
POCKET ): And if you do, as a special added bonus, you get this. Deakins pulls out.
DEAKINS: Hale puts up his fists.
TERRY'S POV: The train car axle is smoking, grinding, glowing red in the heat from the flaming Toyotas.
DEAKINS: Modern boxing is a pussy sport. They want to make it about scoring points. It's not about scoring points! It's about this!
DEAKINS: Okay. You're bleeding. Good. In the old fights, there'd be so much blood, guys would slip and fall. Let's see if we can't get a little more of that red goo out of you. Again Deakins fakes right, jabs left. Hale half blocks it, but is sent back.
TERRY: Is between the car carrier and a boxcar, looking down at the axle, not knowing what the hell she's going to do when she hears a horn honking. She turns.
DEAKINS: Used to be, every fight was to a knockout. You know what happens when you get knocked out? It's your brain slapping against the inside of your skull. Here. I'll let you see what it's like. Ready? Deakins steps toward Hale, about to finish him off. Deakins swings. Hale ducks, comes up hard with all he's got, gets Deakins under the chin and Deakins sails up and back, landing prone, seeing stars.
HALE: Stands over Deakins, in silhouette, the light of the hatch above him. And then.
THE TRAIN: Jumps the tracks.
THE STRAPS: Securing the webbing to the walls of the car start to snap.
FLAMING TOYOTAS: Fly, tumble, explode.
THE TRAIN: The sounds of the crash cease. Dust and smoke. Burning Toyotas.
DEAKINS: Is lying at the bottom ( end ) of the car, directly under the nuke, not moving.
HALE: Looks around for something. He sees it
DEAKINS' EYES: Flicker open. He sees.
A PISTOL: Lying a few feet away.
HALE: DEAKINS ( O.S. ) You have to push amber, then red. You might have time to push amber. You won't get to red. Hale turns to see.
DEAKINS: Pointing a gun at him.
HALE: The nuke is armed, Deak. If it falls, the impact trigger will set it off.
DEAKINS: I know.
HALE: Half a million people will die.
DEAKINS: ( thinks, shrugs ) Fuck 'em if they can't take a joke.
HALE: His finger hovers over the amber button.
DEAKINS: Do it and I shoot. Hale looks at Deakins.
HALE: I guess you really don't know me that well after all. Hale presses the amber button.
DEAKINS: Spins back, blood spraying from his shoulder.
HALE: Spins back, blood spraying from his shoulder.
THE REMOTE: Falls from his hand.
DEAKINS: Is about to shoot again, then hears a tearing and looks up as.
THE NUKE: Drops toward him, point first.
DEAKINS: His eyes fill with true terror as.
HALE: Gets to his feet and stands over Deakins. He reaches down, opens Deakins' pocket and pulls out the twenty-dollar bill.
HALE: He heads out of the boxcar.
HALE: Keeps running through the wreckage. He stops, unable to breathe when he sees.
A FOOT: In a boot, sticking out from under a burning Toyota.
HALE: Runs to the car, pulls at the foot, tries to push the car off the body underneath. O.S. another vehicle drives up.
HALE: Come on! Oh, God. Oh, no. Hale is pulling hard on the foot when.
TERRY: Walkins over from the Rancher's pickup truck.
REPORTER: What happened here? Hale and Wilkins and Giles share a look.
HALE: ( looks at flaming
TOYOTAS ): . somebody was trying to steal some Toyotas.
HALE: Rawley Hale.
TERRY: Terry Carmichael. They shake hands and walk on as we.
THE END: Writers : Graham Yost
