NARRATOR: As far as con man stories go, I think I've heard them all. Of grifters, ropers, faro fixers, tales drawn long and tall. But if one bears a bookmark in the confidence man's tome, twould be that of Penelope, and of the brothers Bloom.
NARRATOR: At ten and thirteen Bloom and Stephen ( the younger and the old )
NARRATOR: had been through several foster Thirty eight, all told.
NARRATOR: Mischief moved them on in life, and moving kept them close.
NARRATOR: For Bloom had Stephen, Stephen Bloom, and both had more than most.
NARRATOR: Another home, another main street. Stephen looked around, then summed the burgh up thusly:
STEPHEN: Bloom, we've hit a one hat town.
NARRATOR: One theater. One car wash. One cafe. One park. One cat. Which, through some mishap, had one leg.
STEPHEN: Sweet Jesus. Look at that.
NARRATOR: One school, which meant one tight- knit group of local well-off kids.
NARRATOR: Their pocket-change bought rocket
NARRATOR: The brothers, Pixie Stix.
STEPHEN: Pixie Stix.
NARRATOR: They were the `they'. All well loved, rooted, happy as you please. Always there. In every town.
STEPHEN: The playground bourgeoisies.
NARRATOR: Could he simply
NARRATOR: Just drop his fears and go? Leave his brother in the woods, and join the children?
BLOOM: What's doing?
STEPHEN: 13 CONTINUED: 13
BLOOM: You shuffle when you're thinking something through. So whatcha Not a thing.
STEPHEN: Not a thing.
NARRATOR: This wasn't really true. Cause in the root of Stephen's psyche, something now began. A seed of grand epiphany. A hook. A tale.
STEPHEN: A plan.
NARRATOR: A fiction made for profit, in which both boys played a part. A simple con in fifteen steps.
STEPHEN: And this is where we start.
NARRATOR: And then, as if a curtain had been pulled back from the sky. Some barrier within the younger Bloom was broken.
BLOOM: They talk. They run. They laugh. They play.
NARRATOR: So Bloom performed his role in Stephen's story to a T.
NARRATOR: And being who he wasn't, could be as he wished to be.
STEPHEN: Oh - kay. How's it going on the playground front?
BLOOM: It's great.
STEPHEN: So, on to step eleven, then. The Tale. You tell them -
BLOOM: Bloom's lip quivers, obviously conflicted.
NARRATOR: Must the numbers rattle on? Must the fiction end?
BLOOM: I think I need more time to win Bloom. They're not your friends. They're part of this, and this aint real. Remember, it's a con. And when it's done, we've just got us. And we'll be moving on. So, the tale. You tell them there's a
STEPHEN: Bloom. They're not your friends. They're part of this, and this aint real. Remember, it's a con. And when it's done, we've just got us. And we'll be moving on. So, the tale. You tell them there's a
BLOOM: hermit in the woods. A one eyed, steel toothed vagabond.
BLOOM: .with blood red eyes?
STEPHEN: ( nods ) That's good. He stopped you coming home from school.
BLOOM: .and told me of a cave.
GIRL: What kind of cave?
BLOOM: A cave of wonders.
BOY: Pffft ha.
GIRL: Shut up, Dave.
BLOOM: At noon on every Sunday, there appears a ball of light, which flutters like a butterfly.
GIRL: A will-o-whisp?
BLOOM: That's right. It guides you
STEPHEN: .if you can keep up.
BLOOM: .to where the treasures lay.
BOY: So where's this cave?
GIRL: Yeah, where?
STEPHEN: Ah-hah. The hermit didn't say. He got this greedy glinting look, the filthy red-eyed leech. and said he'd tell for thirty bucks.
EXCITED BOY: Well that's just two bucks each!
NARRATOR: So Sunday came.
NARRATOR: .and straight from church, into the woods Bloom led.
NARRATOR: They stopped. Their hearts leapt. There it was.
GIRL: Just like the hermit said!
NARRATOR: For just one moment, Bloom forgot himself and ran too fast. He'd catch the light and find the But the moment passed.
NARRATOR: They didn't catch the will-o-wisp, but didn't really care.
STEPHEN: It seems to me that in the end, the perfect con is where each one involved gets just the thing they wanted.
BLOOM: Yeah I guess so.
NARRATOR: Our fledgling thieves were
NARRATOR: The children's parents, less so.
NARRATOR: A bitter ending? Maybe. But there's sweetness in the mix. The brothers Bloom had found their As shown in number six. `Cut' meant to negotiate, `percent' percentage deal.
NARRATOR: `O'Henry's' was the town's one dry clean shop.
STEPHEN: So how's it feel?
NARRATOR: In truth, young Bloom won't know for twenty years just how he felt. And so, we'll skip ahead now in our
STEPHEN: Let `em melt.
YOUNG MAN: He gets the scarab, you get the money, I get the girl. so in the end, everyone gets everything he
CHARLESTON: Cause the Turk was right. After seeing her, after that night on the airstrip, after Cairo everything changed, and he couldn't see the play through that one milky eye, but the Turk was right about one thing, that there's nothing beautiful about money. She's This isn't happening.
MCGUIRE: This isn't happening.
CHARLESTON: He'll never have her now. She's free. And I'll never see her in scarlet again, her chestnut hair, but it's worth the money and my job and his life and the rest of my life that she's free.
MCGUIRE: Charleston. I can't be here.
CHARLESTON: You're not here. Neither of us are. It's Mowcher's gun.
MCGUIRE: Mowcher is at the bottom of the Spree with a cowl in his neck!
CHARLESTON: They won't find him for a week, and the Albino will chalk it up to Davey, he won't talk. We're clean.
MCGUIRE: Listen to you - four months ago you were an investment banker! Now you're nothing. The Scarab's lost. The money's gone. It'll rot in the Peruvian earth. It's gone.
CHARLESTON: The man named Charleston you met nine months and a thousand years ago at the hotel bar in Jodhpur is dead. If we see each other again it'll be as strangers. As for the money. let it rot.
MCGUIRE: He pats Victor, who sits up, spitting blood. McGuire looks to Victor and the woman for a reaction. Gets none. The Asian woman nods slightly.
VICTOR: ( un-wowishly ) You're a genius, Stephen.
STEPHEN: We're a genius, Bloom.
BLOOM: Tastes like tin foil.
STEPHEN: So does real blood. Buy you a
STEPHEN: "Four months and a thousand years ago." That's Kipling, isn't it? He stole that from Kipling.
BLOOM: 42 EXT. BERLIN - PRE-DAWN 42
THE TURK: Make way, make room for the brothers Bloom!
THE TURK: Nine months, six countries, three faked deaths, for one mark. You're a beautiful antique, my friend.
ALL: 44 CONTINUED: 44
THE TURK: One thing baffles me. The entire con would have fallen apart if Charleston had walked away. How did you know he'd pull the trigger?
STEPHEN: Just think of any card. Got one?
THE TURK: Stephen shrugs.
STEPHEN: But if I do it enough, eventually it'll work on someone. And then it'll be the best card trick in the Ante up.
THE TURK: It's true you never work with the same crew twice?
STEPHEN: That's true.
THE TURK: Well shit. Except for the uh, for La Chinoise?
STEPHEN: La Chinoise?
THE TURK: Back at the bar - the Asian woman. The CHINK. Being hit on by a weasly ROMANIAN.
ROMANIAN: Yeah, I'm pretty big into anime.
STEPHEN: Our fifth Beatle. She knows the ins and the outs, and so far as I can tell, speaks three words of
THE CHINK: She says `no' with a look.
BARTENDER: She says `no' with a look.
THE ALBINO: So she's with you and Bloom till the end.
STEPHEN: Just till the wind changes.
THE TURK: Where is Bloom?
ROSE: There you are. Hiding?
BLOOM: I've been learning. Stephen likes to talk about you.
ROSE: I've been learning. Stephen likes to talk about you.
BLOOM: Did he tell you the cave story?
ROSE: Is it true?
BLOOM: What else did he tell you?
ROSE: I'm not going to tell it as good as Stephen. You two kicked around till your early teens, then stowed away on a merchant marine freighter and ended up in St. Petersburg, where you spent five years under the tutelage of a shadowy old swindler named the Diamond Dog. And he was your Fagin and Stephen was his Artful Dodger, but it ended suddenly and badly.
BLOOM: Stephen took his eye out with an antique rapier.
ROSE: Why did he do that?
BLOOM: And then the Brothers Bloom lit out on their own to make their fortune as gentleman thieves. Sounds It does.
ROSE: It does.
BLOOM: You want to know how Stephen did it? With Charleston?
ROSE: It's not the first thing on my
WIFE: This is the end. Charelston, you've always been a dunce.
BLOOM: That's what he does, he writes his cons the way dead Russians write novels, with thematic arcs and imbedded symbolism and shit. And he wrote me as a vulnerable anti- hero. And that's why you think you want to kiss me. It's a con.
STEPHEN: Who doesn't? That's the big 2.
STEPHEN: We missed the sunrise. That would've been nice.
STEPHEN: ( to camels ) Back to the swamps!
BLOOM: `Do we have to go through this Then you make a show of putting on your jacket and say `no I mean it this time Stephen, this time I'm really out.'
STEPHEN: Then you make a show of putting on your jacket and say `no I mean it this time Stephen, this time I'm really out.'
BLOOM: Then you say `let's have a drink, and in the morning Bloom you'll have come to your senses'
STEPHEN: ( re: Bloom's bright red That's a major design flaw in fake blood, by the way.
BLOOM: `and we'll be moving on.'
STEPHEN: Real blood turns brown after a half Listen to me, Stephen.
BLOOM: Listen to me, Stephen.
STEPHEN: This scotch costs more than your Listen to me.
BLOOM: Listen to me.
STEPHEN: And the flask stopped a bullet from a black powder rifle at Appomattox.
BLOOM: Bloom bats the flask away. A camel catches it, tips its camel neck back and gulps it down.
STEPHEN: That's my new favorite camel.
BLOOM: I hate you. I hate this life, I hate it, I hate that you won't fucking listen to me for one goddamn second. Just listen. I can't wake up next to another stranger, who thinks they know me, or even wants to know me, cause I don't know - who - I'm thirty five years old, and I, I'm useless, I'm crippled, I don't, I've only ever lived life through these roles that aren't me, that are written for me by you.
STEPHEN: Tell me what you want.
BLOOM: Why? So you can write me a role in a story where I get it? You're not listening to me. I want a real. thing, I wanna do things how I don't know are gonna work out, a, I, want, a.
STEPHEN: ( sotto ) You want an unwritten life.
BLOOM: I want an unwritten life! Aauuugghh god! I'm going away. Somewhere you or even the Chink won't be able to track me down, so don't try. No more stories. I love you. Bye.
STEPHEN: Sorry bud. I'm dry.
FADE OUT: FADE IN: 49 EXT. ITALIAN COUNTRYSIDE - DAY 49 Beautiful green hills surround the walled medieval city of TITLE CARD: Ferentino, Italy - 3 months later. A tiny red car inches its way across the countryside. It winds its way up and deeper into the city on the hill.
STEPHEN: She's right, you know.
BLOOM: Why are you here, Stephen?
STEPHEN: Put on your face, let's eat.
BLOOM: How'd you find me?
STEPHEN: The Chink.
BLOOM: How'd the Chink find me?
STEPHEN: How've you been?
BLOOM: I've done a lot of thinking the past three months. You don't want out. You think you do but you don't. Here, c'mere. I want to show you something.
STEPHEN: I've done a lot of thinking the past three months. You don't want out. You think you do but you don't. Here, c'mere. I want to show you something.
BLOOM: I'm quits, Stephen. Where are we going?
STEPHEN: New Jersey.
BLOOM: ( sighs ) Well lemme get my jacket.
BLOOM: Looks like an etching from a Bronte Huh. Look at that. Well thanks. I'm gonna head back to Italy.
STEPHEN: Big money. Inheritance. Dad died early, Mom died two years ago after ten years fighting an illness that I can't pronounce.
BLOOM: How much? Look out.
STEPHEN: Look out.
BLOOM: What am I doing here, Stephen? I have one rule, and you've never even tested it.
STEPHEN: Stick with me.
BLOOM: No women. One rule. You know we don't do women, I don't, and it's not a morality thing or- a thing- it's, whatever it is it doesn't matter what it is, that's just our rule. So what are we, Did you rent a `78 Caddy? Controversial choice. So no, is what I'm saying. I'm quits anyway. I'll be in Italy. Drinking.
STEPHEN: Penelope Stamp. Thirty three. Lived at home her whole life.
BLOOM: An eccentric shut-in rich bitch. You're not helping your case.
STEPHEN: She's bored, a seed in the snow. We're going to put her through a grand adventure, bring her to life.
BLOOM: So this is the big plan. Lure me back into things with some beautiful intriguing elusive girl, stir up old memories with the prospect of redemption and rebirth. Seriously Stephen. Amateur night.
STEPHEN: It's actually pretty simple. We're brothers, antique dealers, perusing the Americas for antiquities en route to someplace exciting via luxury steamer, say Greece. You tie into her and work your magic.
STEPHEN: .and so that's how it ends, in Mexico, a burst of violence then a moment of truth on the beach. What do you think?
BLOOM: You've got something up your sleeve. This is about me, right? This might not be something you know, but they've all been about you. Maybe that's why they've none of them been perfect, I've never been able to give you what you really want.
STEPHEN: This might not be something you know, but they've all been about you. Maybe that's why they've none of them been perfect, I've never been able to give you what you really want.
BLOOM: I want to be outta all this. So by definition, this is not going to give me what I want. This will be the last one. You'll let me go.
STEPHEN: I will never approach you to do another con again. Let's make it a red Schwinn.
BLOOM: There are less painful ways to cut into a mark.
STEPHEN: Wahk wahk wahk wahk wahk wahk wahk. Score to beat is 7.9. Keep your head in the game, the Chinese judge is tough.
BLOOM: This is a banana seat, man! Don't give me that blank look, you know what a fuckin banana seat is.
PENELOPE: Are you alright?
STEPHEN: The Chink had it - I'm telling him, I know, thank you - in her report, I missed it. This is actually kind of great, I'll tell you why.
BLOOM: You missed it?
STEPHEN: Dostoevsky was an epileptic.
BLOOM: I know.
STEPHEN: His seizures were preceded by an enlightened euphoria, a sort of opening of his spiritual eye.
PENELOPE: I think they took my car. Could you drive me home?
BLOOM: Uh. Yeah.
PENELOPE: I'm Penelope Stamp.
BLOOM: 63 INT. CADILLAC - MORNING 63
PENELOPE: S' ok.
BLOOM: Nice area.
PENELOPE: This car is like riding in a huge
PENELOPE: For the bike, and the whole, thing. This was a big shit sandwich. Ok.
PENELOPE: I realized. I should have. invited you in. for coffee.
BLOOM: .didn't really have anyone except each other growing up, and our father was in the antique business, he had a shop in Charleston. So we stuck together, my brother Stephen and me, we and just took over the shop when dad died. Then we realized one day, we saw the dealers who were finding and selling us the antiques coming from exotic countries all over the world, and there was a, almost a scent they had, when they'd come in the dusty shop we worked nine to five in since we were nineteen, the air would, like before a rain, the ions would line up, and you could just smell midnight trains to Paris and steamer ships and Calcutta bazaars, and we made the decision, we just did it, that we want to have that sort of life. So we did, and we've been travelling and treasure hunting the world ever since, and could you, I'm sorry, stop doing - that, you're, I'm, ok. Alright, look.
PENELOPE: I'm really bad at talking to I told you, that's alright. You want me to go?
BLOOM: I told you, that's alright. You want me to go?
PENELOPE: No! I want to talk to you. Fuck.
BLOOM: So what kind of stuff do you do?
PENELOPE: Nothing. Maybe you should go.
BLOOM: Alright. I'm just gonna finish my coffee first.
PENELOPE: I collect hobbies. I see someone doing something I like, and I get books and learn how to do it.
BLOOM: Hm. Anything interesting?
PENELOPE: Not really.
HOBBY MONTAGE: In which Penelope demonstrates the following with exacting seriousness and skill for Bloom: Playing the piano. The classical guitar. The fiddle. The Putting the finishing touches on a ship in a bottle. Executing a perfect ollie on a skateboard.
BLOOM: Is that it?
PENELOPE: No. I know a lot of stuff.
BLOOM: You just learned this stuff, here by yourself?
PENELOPE: Kinda sad.
BLOOM: No. So you just thought, `so I want to learn this and this,' and you just did it? How do you plan to use all these skills?
PENELOPE: I dunno. I'm not a planner. I just do stuff. Here, look at this watermelon. It's a camera. You can make a pinhole camera out of anything hollowish and dark.
BLOOM: It's gotta warp the image though, No, yeah it does. That's what - the Taj Majal taken by a fat tourist with diarrhea and a point- and-shoot camera can be the flattest, dullest, "here's us at the Taj Majal," "Oh lovely lets go stick our thumbs up our asses" picture. But you can look at the most menial everyday thing, and depending on how your pinhole camera eats the light, it's warped and peculiar and imperfect. It's not reproduction, it's It's a lie that tells the truth.
PENELOPE: No, yeah it does. That's what - the Taj Majal taken by a fat tourist with diarrhea and a point- and-shoot camera can be the flattest, dullest, "here's us at the Taj Majal," "Oh lovely lets go stick our thumbs up our asses" picture. But you can look at the most menial everyday thing, and depending on how your pinhole camera eats the light, it's warped and peculiar and imperfect. It's not reproduction, it's It's a lie that tells the truth.
BLOOM: It's a lie that tells the truth.
PENELOPE: I dunno about truth. A photograph is a secret about a secret. The more it tells you, the less you What's changed between now and twenty minutes ago? Cause this is kinda like a conversation.
BLOOM: What's changed between now and twenty minutes ago? Cause this is kinda like a conversation.
PENELOPE: Huh. Well shit.
BLOOM: Well, I should, uh, it's late. So. I meet a lot of people in my job I have to professionally act interested in. It's a good feeling to be genuinely interested in Are you leaving?
PENELOPE: Are you leaving?
BLOOM: 67 CONTINUED: 67
PENELOPE: Are you coming back?
BLOOM: Well next time I'm in town. We're taking a steamer at noon tomorrow off the docks, to the continent for a few months. Paris and Greece, I think. I've gotta get a hat. Thanks for the pinhole camera demonstration. And for the good conversation. Goodbye Goodbye Bloom.
PENELOPE: Goodbye Bloom.
BLOOM: I need another day with her.
STEPHEN: You'll have two weeks on the boat.
BLOOM: I need another day to get her on the boat, she isn't hooked. That bit I skipped where we were talking in the backyard, it was ten minutes on the optics of lensless photography, we didn't really talk.
STEPHEN: It isn't the talking that hooked
BLOOM: I think you're wrong. Though every time I say that, you end up being comically right. That's her, isn't it? Yeah.
PENELOPE: Hi. What are you doing here?
BLOOM: Hi. What are you doing here?
PENELOPE: You left this money in my kitchen.
BLOOM: Yeah, I didn't want it, but thanks.
PENELOPE: ( beat ) Hey, where's this boat going?
BLOOM: Why did you decide to come?
PENELOPE: Well I'd never been to Greece. Or Europe. Or outside New Jersey.
BLOOM: It just seems like a big leap. From where you were at yesterday to being a world traveler.
PENELOPE: It looked like fun. I wanted to do A new hobby. Here, this way.
BLOOM: A new hobby. Here, this way.
BLOOM: Penelope, this is my brother Pleased to make your acquaintance. Bloom's told me about you, you're the epileptic photographer?
STEPHEN: Pleased to make your acquaintance. Bloom's told me about you, you're the epileptic photographer?
PENELOPE: Sort of.
STEPHEN: This is my personal secretary and masseuse, Mrs. Yuengling.
PENELOPE: Yuengling like the beer?
STEPHEN: Heh. No. So what are your plans in Greece?
PENELOPE: I don't plan.
STEPHEN: Good for you.
BLOOM: You named the Chink `Yuengling?'
STEPHEN: I was writing in a bar. And she doesn't drink, how does she know a Philly beer?
BLOOM: She knows a lot of stuff. Was that who I thought it was on the East deck this morning?
STEPHEN: Yes it was. Did he spot you?
BLOOM: Not yet.
BLOOM: You look very nice.
PENELOPE: I make cameras out of watermelons.
BLOOM: Lucky guess. How was it lonely?
PENELOPE: Lucky guess. How was it lonely?
BLOOM: How was it lonely?
PENELOPE: Fishing for an entertaining childhood anecdote that encapsulates my adult issues?
BLOOM: Well it's funny how everyone's usually got one. When I turned six I started getting allergies, hayfever, rashes, really bad. So my mom took me into the doctor, and he did that test where they use needles to prick a grid on your back with all the different toxins, to see which ones you're allergic to. The next day I came in, the doctor lifted up my shirt, and my back looked like a patch of oily, moldy, blackish green double- puff marshmallows. I was allergic to everything. So they sealed the house with plastic and a special ventilation system, and I spent my entire childhood and adolescence indoors. Mostly alone. Lonely.
PENELOPE: When I turned six I started getting allergies, hayfever, rashes, really bad. So my mom took me into the doctor, and he did that test where they use needles to prick a grid on your back with all the different toxins, to see which ones you're allergic to. The next day I came in, the doctor lifted up my shirt, and my back looked like a patch of oily, moldy, blackish green double- puff marshmallows. I was allergic to everything. So they sealed the house with plastic and a special ventilation system, and I spent my entire childhood and adolescence indoors. Mostly alone. Lonely.
BLOOM: It wasn't `til I was nineteen they discovered what I was actually allergic to was the aluminum alloy the hypodermic needle was made out of. Then I was going to leave, but my mom got sick. So I stayed. And she stayed sick, a long time.
PENELOPE: It wasn't `til I was nineteen they discovered what I was actually allergic to was the aluminum alloy the hypodermic needle was made out of. Then I was going to leave, but my mom got sick. So I stayed. And she stayed sick, a long time.
BLOOM: Do you feel cheated?
PENELOPE: The trick to not feeling cheated is to learn how to cheat. So I decided this wasn't a story about a miserable girl trapped in a house that smelled like medical supplies wasting her life on a dying person she sometimes hated. It was about a girl who could find infinite beauty in anything, any little thing. And do anything she decided to do. And love the person she was trapped with. So I told myself that story until it became true. Now did doing that let me escape a wasted life, or did it just blind me so I wouldn't want to escape it? I don't know. But either way, I was the one telling my own story. So I don't feel cheated.
THE CURATOR: And a magician is just an actor playing the part of a magician. My
PENELOPE: Who is that man? You avoided him earlier on the deck.
BLOOM: I don't know, but he's carrying a knife up his sleeve and wearing a cape. Do me a favor and steer clear of him. I don't suppose in all your hobby acquiring you ever learned how to I went through a phase when I was mildly obsessed with the Bolero.
PENELOPE: I went through a phase when I was mildly obsessed with the Bolero.
BLOOM: Give me a minute.
THE CURATOR: THE CURATOR ( in French, subtitled )
PENELOPE: THE CURATOR ( in French, subtitled )
THE CURATOR: ( in French, subtitled ) I didn't mean to startle you.
PENELOPE: ( in French, subtitled ) Yes you did.
THE CURATOR: ( in French, subtitled ) Apologies, but the deck was dark, and I had to approach. ( English ) It's been such a time since I've encountered the Brothers Bloom.
PENELOPE: You're in antiques?
THE CURATOR: ( Cheshire grin ) Antiques. I wonder, my dear, if you know the true nature of the men you travel with? A little fear might suit you, I Bon soir, ma cherie.
BLOOM: It isn't a Spanish band, but they'll do their best.
PENELOPE: How'd you find her?
BLOOM: The Chi-nese, uh, Yeungling? She found us.
PENELOPE: I like her.
BLOOM: They smile when they see Stephen and the Chink at a table. Their smiles drop when they see the Curator sitting with them. Bloom glares at the Curator, but speaks to Stephen.
STEPHEN: I invited him, sit down. This ship's too small to dance around each other for a week, we might as well have it out now. Bloom. Sit. Penelope, do you know our friend?
PENELOPE: Only as the creepy Frenchman.
THE CURATOR: Book-learned. You know languages but not accents, my dear. I am Belgian. Maxmillion Melville, at your service.
BLOOM: Also known in certain professional circles as the Curator.
PENELOPE: Pleased to make your acquaintance. What do you do?
THE CURATOR: I'm a curator, presently for the National Museum in Prague. And I'm an epileptic photographer.
PENELOPE: I'm an epileptic photographer.
THE CURATOR: Good for you. Boys? What do you
STEPHEN: We have a legitimate antique reselling business.
THE CURATOR: Baissez le rideau, la farce est We've gone straight, Max.
STEPHEN: We've gone straight, Max.
THE CURATOR: Pardon, but you do not ascend to the grand heights of the Brothers Bloom only to toss it all and sell terra cotta to blue haired weekend We did. Eat your waffles.
STEPHEN: We did. Eat your waffles.
THE CURATOR: But Mademoiselle appears. confused. Perhaps she is unawares?
BLOOM: Eat your waffles, fat man.
THE CURATOR: Unaware that the Brothers Bloom are in fact the two most highly respected art smugglers in the western world?
STEPHEN: Were. We've been on the straight for three years. So that's that.
THE CURATOR: Well, if that is that, then that is indeed that. As you say.
PENELOPE: Your name's Melville?
THE CURATOR: Maxmillion Melville, Esquire.
PENELOPE: Sorry, no, cause I noticed but I couldn't place it, this ship is the Fidele, which was the ship in Melville's novel "The Confidence Man." So that's weird.
STEPHEN: 80 INT. DECK - NIGHT 80
BLOOM: I know you like to throw those clever little details in, but you've gotta watch that shit with her Stephen. She had a lot of time alone in that house, and she used it. She did the best Double Dutch Queens I've ever seen up on the deck last night.
STEPHEN: Double Dutch Queens uses gaffed She had them in her purse and cut them in while I was folding my That's what I'm saying. She's different, she knows, sometimes it feels like she knows everything. Doesn't that worry you?
BLOOM: She had them in her purse and cut them in while I was folding my That's what I'm saying. She's different, she knows, sometimes it feels like she knows everything. Doesn't that worry you?
STEPHEN: That's what I'm saying. She's different, she knows, sometimes it feels like she knows everything. Doesn't that worry you?
BLOOM: That's what I'm saying. She's different, she knows, sometimes it feels like she knows everything. Doesn't that worry you?
STEPHEN: No. But something about her is worrying you plenty.
BLOOM: She feels like one of your
STEPHEN: The day I con you is the day I die, I know that. How did you get the Belgian, on our He's beautiful, right?
BLOOM: I know that. How did you get the Belgian, on our He's beautiful, right?
STEPHEN: He's beautiful, right?
BLOOM: I didn't expect him to actually be I'm not sure he is. I'm to bed. I've always protected you, right? The only real danger in this whole play is that you'll actually fall in love with her. Look at me. Don't fall in love with her.
STEPHEN: I'm not sure he is. I'm to bed. I've always protected you, right? The only real danger in this whole play is that you'll actually fall in love with her. Look at me. Don't fall in love with her.
STEPHEN: Shut up. I know what I'm doing. This came through just now?
PENELOPE: Smugglers. It's like an adventure story. Whose idea was it to go Mine. Stephen always loved the life. Then he was almost killed on a run to Jakarta, two thugs with heads like canned hams worked him beyond all reason.
BLOOM: Mine. Stephen always loved the life. Then he was almost killed on a run to Jakarta, two thugs with heads like canned hams worked him beyond all reason.
STEPHEN: Have at thee, you ham headed And I called it, that was it.
BLOOM: And I called it, that was it.
PENELOPE: For me. Stephen enjoyed it. He loved the idea that we were internationally infamous art smugglers, but I think deep down, same as me, he felt like we were putting on a persona, faking it.
BLOOM: For me. Stephen enjoyed it. He loved the idea that we were internationally infamous art smugglers, but I think deep down, same as me, he felt like we were putting on a persona, faking it.
PENELOPE: Telling a story.
BLOOM: He'd love to die on a job. Cornered at midnight on a run to Jakarta. That's his dream, to tell his story so well it fulfills itself. It somehow would make it finally real for him.
PENELOPE: That's kinda the thing we all want,
BLOOM: Trying to get something real by telling yourself stories is a trap. Trust me on that one.
THE CURATOR: Best of luck with the antiquing, boys. Au revoir, Chinois.
BLOOM: My French is a little rusty, but I believe he just told you `my offer He came out of nowhere last night.
PENELOPE: He came out of nowhere last night.
BLOOM: Oh lord. What has he got?
PENELOPE: An 8th century prayer book.
BLOOM: That's what he does.
STEPHEN: Wonder who's his fence?
BLOOM: Probably his Spanish guy, right? Did he say who's buying?
PENELOPE: An Argentinian. Argentine? A gentleman from Argentina. He's quite sick, cancer in his bones, and desperate for sentimental reasons to own this piece while he He'll sell it to a middleman for one million, US. The Argentin.a guy will pay two point five.
THE CURATOR: A gentleman from Argentina. He's quite sick, cancer in his bones, and desperate for sentimental reasons to own this piece while he He'll sell it to a middleman for one million, US. The Argentin.a guy will pay two point five.
PENELOPE: He'll sell it to a middleman for one million, US. The Argentin.a guy will pay two point five.
STEPHEN: Not bad.
PENELOPE: Is he legit?
STEPHEN: The Curator? That's a relative term. He's telling the truth.
BLOOM: I'm sorry you had to deal with that Where's that cab going?
PENELOPE: The train station.
BLOOM: Where's the train going?
PENELOPE: Bloom breathes.
BLOOM: Why not?
PENELOPE: Why not?
BLOOM: Well first off, we don't have a million dollars.
PENELOPE: I do, I've got, that's whatever. I mean a real reason.
BLOOM: This is real, it's dangerous, it could go very bad.
PENELOPE: I think a little real danger might suit me. I'm gonna do it.
BLOOM: This is not an adventure story.
PENELOPE: What are you talking about? It totally is.
STEPHEN: Take it easy. She's having fun, that's the point of this.
BLOOM: She's making a flag for our "smugglers gang," man. She made me learn a secret smugglers handshake. Unhealthy. This afternoon, when she was writing, in the observation car? A letter? A journal? No. She is getting way too into this. She's been singing the Smuggler Song since Athens.
STEPHEN: What Smugglers Song?
BLOOM: You know, the one from whatsit, the Disney thing, that Smuggler Song, the `We're a band of smugglers hey, la la la la la, we smuggle by night and drink by day, smugglers ho, ho ho, smugglers.' there, this isn't. there isn't a Smuggler Song, is there? Ok. She made up a Smuggler Song. With hand motions.
STEPHEN: The whole point of this was to sweep her off her feet. Let her enjoy it.
BLOOM: While it lasts.
STEPHEN: Nothing lasts.
PENELOPE: Smuggling. From the snack car.
BLOOM: Fourteen gins? Are you kidding me?
THE CHINK: I'm not paying for that.
BLOOM: I'm not paying for that.
ATTENDANT: She says no with a look, they drink.
BLOOM: She made up the Smuggler Song. I thought it was a Disney thing.
PENELOPE: Gin is fuckin fruity. Have you taken this train before?
BLOOM: So this is all like fuckin `whatever' to you.
PENELOPE: So this is all like fuckin `whatever' to you.
BLOOM: I usually drink with the Chink in the snack car, play cards.
PENELOPE: With the who?
BLOOM: Mrs. Yeungling. That's her smuggler nickname.
PENELOPE: That's offensive.
BLOOM: I think if it were offensive to her, she'd let us know.
PENELOPE: Do I get a smuggler nickname?
BLOOM: I think you're constipated. In your fuckin soul.
PENELOPE: I think you're constipated. In your fuckin soul.
BLOOM: You've got a big load of grumpy petrified poop up your ass, I'm just calling you out on it. Yeah I'm pretending I'm a smuggler, so you know what? I'm a fuckin smuggler. If that's your thing, fuckin tell it like you own it. When you've got a spotlight in front of your feet, man, fuckin jump into it and dance the shit out of it. Stop fuckin thinking so much. Enjoy the fuckin ride. Look, I'm not-
PENELOPE: You've got a big load of grumpy petrified poop up your ass, I'm just calling you out on it. Yeah I'm pretending I'm a smuggler, so you know what? I'm a fuckin smuggler. If that's your thing, fuckin tell it like you own it. When you've got a spotlight in front of your feet, man, fuckin jump into it and dance the shit out of it. Stop fuckin thinking so much. Enjoy the fuckin ride. Look, I'm not-
BLOOM: Look, I'm not-
PENELOPE: Shh. I love thunderstorms. Whoa ha. Oh ho ho. Ohhhhhh whoooo ha ha ha ha. Oh hooooooooooo ha ha ha ha ha ha ha oh my GOD, ha whoooo.. whee. ha. hoo. I. am. so horny.
BLOOM: The door to her car latches, and Bloom is gone.
BLOOM: ( playing a card ) That's the big 2.
STEPHEN: The last time I was in Prague, I was in love.
PENELOPE: What was she like?
STEPHEN: Pale skin. Long feet. So.
STEPHEN: You will go to the bank, that wire should have cleared if you put it in at Athens.
PENELOPE: 105 INT. PRAGUE BANK - DAY 105
STEPHEN: Candy-Gram. It's us, Max.
THE CURATOR: Here, off the Basilica, are offices of administration, and beneath those, an otherwise inaccessible section of catacombs. And the Administrative offices. So how do you steal the book?
BLOOM: Administrative offices. So how do you steal the book?
THE CURATOR: The book is already stolen. The stealing is in the bureaucracy, in the filing, red tape. As far as the museum is concerned, the book does not exist. I am the curator, I walk in, pinch the copy girl's baboosh, put the book in a briefcase and walk out. Tomorrow, say, at two.
STEPHEN: THE CURATOR
THE CURATOR: Today is not a good day.
STEPHEN: Tomorrow. Now what about this Ah, the Argentine? Senor Luise Belguta Rioso. I get his file.
THE CURATOR: ( blank, then realizes ) Ah, the Argentine? Senor Luise Belguta Rioso. I get his file.
PENELOPE: Gin is slow death, man.
STEPHEN: We'll see you back at the hotel.
THE CURATOR: From a private collection on the island of Ikaria. That one.
BLOOM: Who painted it?
THE CURATOR: I don't know.
PENELOPE: Why is it the last thing you see every night, and the first thing you see every morning?
THE CURATOR: That's a story. You have a minute? My daughter travelled with me when she was very young, and I'd show her the places and the art, all the most joyous and terrifying things in the world. I wanted that the world was alive in the most fantastic way for her. To built her a pair of wings. Make these things real. But maybe more than any other objet d'art, she loved to hear she'd ask to hear the story of the stone golem. From a painting in a small private collection on the island of Ikaria. Well Rachel, like most monsters the Golem was once a human. A boy, about your age.
THE CURATOR: Bloom keeps going, anxious to leave, but Penelope lingers on the staircase. The Curator comes out.
PENELOPE: Right. Oh, right.
THE CURATOR: Au revoir.
PENELOPE: You aren't constipated. You're scared. What are you scared of?
BLOOM: Diamond Dog, carrying a cup and a
DIAMOND DOG: Bloom. How long has it been? Can you believe that? Tea? Been a long while.
BLOOM: If I call Stephen down he'll kill
DIAMOND DOG: Well then please don't call Stephen down. Look at you, you're terrified. C'mon now, look. Take a look. I'm an old man with no depth perception. You don't have to be scared of me. It's been a funny thing, watching you boys take what I taught you and eclipse me. I'm so proud to be a footnote in the lives of the Brothers Bloom. And you hate me. The curse of all bad fathers - that my presence on this earth after I die will not live on the lips of admiring men, but will sink into the murky backwaters of my children's psyches.
BLOOM: Is this profundity? Cause you can skip it.
DIAMOND DOG: Ha! Ha ha. Piss and vinegar. When I first took you boys in, showed you the ropes, haunting St. Pete's, piss and vinegar. I still crave that youthful joy. Even
BLOOM: Don't touch me.
DIAMOND DOG: You probably won't believe I loved you boys very much.
BLOOM: You're going to take your hand away or I'm going to break your arm, there's nothing between.
DIAMOND DOG: But love, you know. We know, folks like us, you can always blink and realize that it's a fiction, and like Peter walking on water or Wiley Coyote running off a cliff, if you look down in doubt you'll fall. That's the price of our lives, the wax in our wings. One day Stephen's going to fall. It may be glorious, but he's going to fall hard and he won't be there to tell you what to do and protect you. When he's gone, remember me. Hello Stephen.
STEPHEN: I'm sorry I wasn't there.
BLOOM: You can't always be there.
STEPHEN: No, I guess can't.
BLOOM: That was a real tonal shift. The Curator's tale.
STEPHEN: I'm a big fan of tonal shifts. I didn't write it for him, though.
BLOOM: He made it up on the spot?
STEPHEN: I don't know.
STEPHEN: We're a little early.
BLOOM: We're a little early.
PENELOPE: The Golem came for him. In my dream. Crawled out of the painting and killed him in a horrible way.
BLOOM: Well at least he had the decency to just skip out on us, not do something tacky like fake his own
THE CURATOR: ( sotto ) You're a little early.
STEPHEN: I don't get it. If he was hightailing it he could have waited eight hours till we traded the million for the book, and had some traveling money. Well. Back to antiquing. Nothing gained, nothing And you got to see Prague, which is
PENELOPE: You should stay in the city for awhile, they have these amazing puppet show opera things-
BLOOM: You should stay in the city for awhile, they have these amazing puppet show opera things-
STEPHEN: 121 EXT. SIDEWALK BAR - DAY 121
PENELOPE: 121 CONTINUED: 121
BLOOM: It's my fault. I can't believe I left you alone with him.
STEPHEN: The check was cashed yesterday afternoon, he'd have deposited it in a Swiss account. I'm sorry Pen.
PENELOPE: What a waste. That poor man. What a waste. That poor Argentina man. He'll never see the book now, it'll just rot in the catacombs. What a
BLOOM: No. No no. Can't you see what happened here, there is no book, we've been swindled -
PENELOPE: But maybe there is, maybe it's real, we don't know!
BLOOM: It's not real, it's a con.
PENELOPE: It's my money, I'm going to find out for sure. He gave us every piece of information we need.
STEPHEN: We'd need to clear the administrative offices. Some sort of disruption.
PENELOPE: ( to Bloom ) C'mon. Help me break into this castle. It'll be fun.
STEPHEN: She's an artist with nitroglycerin. It's kind of her thing.
PENELOPE: I feel like I want to know more about her.
STEPHEN: Check the tat.
PENELOPE: What's it say?
BLOOM: The literal translation is something about water cranes, but essentially it means "When you're done with something, blow it up."
STEPHEN: There's a smoke detector in these empty rooms in the east tower. So we plant and set off a tiny - TINY tiny, tiny charge. Fire drill ensues, offices empty, and you'll have exactly four and a half minutes to get through the access hatch, into the catacombs, get the book and get out before the fire department arrives.
BLOOM: So straight down the corridor, again, tell me where.
PENELOPE: Second left, third right, access hatch behind the copier, I need to The abort code if we need to abort is "corned beef." For some reason.
BLOOM: The abort code if we need to abort is "corned beef." For some reason.
PENELOPE: Bloom, I need to sleep. Is this Yeungling's backpack?
BLOOM: She gently puts the brick of stabilized nitroglycerin inside the front zipper compartment, and sets the tiny petri-dish bomb beside the handbag.
PENELOPE: You know what I feel?
BLOOM: Scared. All my big talk. But this isn't a story, it's real. Fuckin
PENELOPE: Scared. All my big talk. But this isn't a story, it's real. Fuckin
STEPHEN: 130 INT. PENELOPE'S PRAGUE HOTEL ROOM - MORNING 130
STEPHEN: He looks through his binoculars again.
BLOOM: They share a brief moment with their eyes, and Penelope trots off. The Chink caught it. She looks at Bloom slyly.
PENELOPE: They share a brief moment with their eyes, and Penelope trots off. The Chink caught it. She looks at Bloom slyly.
BLOOM: For the record, I'm still against this. Why send her in alone?
STEPHEN: Because going in alone is a very important thing to do. She's walking into a zero security tourism office during a fire drill and taking a five hundred dollar manuscript replica from a utility crawlspace. Worst case scenario, a file clerk asks if she's lost. Which isn't even going to happen. She's in position.
BLOOM: The Chink clicks the pen.
THE CHINK: Fuck me.
BLOOM: Don't do it don't do it Penelope They're locking down the castle, she won't get in.
STEPHEN: They're locking down the castle, she won't get in.
SECURITY GUARD: To ze back, no panic, to ze back.
BLOOM: Pen! Don't - abort! Corned beef! Corned beef!
PENELOPE: I'm in Prague. I burned a man's lips off to break into a castle in
BLOOM: Wait. Wait, we're fine. She's fine. If the soldiers find her wandering the halls they'll assume she's a clerk, they'll just shoo her out. So as long as she doesn't do anything suspicious, she's fine.
BLOOM: The Chief of Police.
PENELOPE: ( in Czech ) Thank you sir, I will not soon forget your kindness.
STEPHEN: Let her sleep. Train doesn't leave till eight.
BLOOM: That was real.
STEPHEN: Yeah, I know.
BLOOM: Fuckin scary.
STEPHEN: An apple?
BLOOM: Yeah, but it was part of an
STEPHEN: He strolls off, leaving Bloom watching the horizon gloomily.
STEPHEN: Oh-kay. We're rendezvousing with Senor Rioso's guys here, on an isolated beach just south of the Mexican port town Tampico. A simple handoff. Penelope and Yeungling will stay with the car, Bloom and I will do the handing.
PENELOPE: You guys seem a little tense.
STEPHEN: Well I'm not thrilled they set this in Mexico. There could be legitimate reasons, but Mexico's - and I don't want to simplistically vilify an entire country, but Mexico's a horrible place. So we'll be careful.
PENELOPE: Is this going to be more dangerous than I think, tomorrow?
BLOOM: Yeah. You should sleep at the hotel tonight, I'll stay with Stephen at the beach house. You'll need sleep.
PENELOPE: I'm really happy right now. Are Right now I am.
BLOOM: Right now I am.
STEPHEN: The last box in our last con. Let them begin the beguine. How's it She's something special, Stephen.
BLOOM: She's something special, Stephen.
STEPHEN: Uh huh.
BLOOM: Can I.
STEPHEN: Be angry at me, you son of a bitch. Don't be pathetic. Make you? Jesus. I told you not to fall for I'm not gonna do this.
BLOOM: I'm not gonna do this.
STEPHEN: I don't believe you.
PENELOPE: I know what I've gotta do. I've gotta talk to you. Are you wearing What's up?
BLOOM: I know what I've gotta do. I've gotta talk to you. Are you wearing What's up?
PENELOPE: What's up?
PENELOPE: Bloom. What?
BLOOM: My brother and I are con men. All things considered, we might be the most respected con man team working today. And everything since you hit me with your Lamborghini, all of this, it's all fake. It's all a
BLOOM: No, we were going to blow you off tomorrow using the cackle bladder, it's a, term, we have actors playing the Argentina guy's men, when we showed up the deal would go bad, they would open fire on us, Stephen and I would pretend to be shot using blood packets, squibs. That's - cackle bladder, in the old days they put fake blood in chicken bladders, so. So you'd escape with the Chink, she'd send you off with a little travelling money and that would be that.
PENELOPE: But that's not how this one's going to end. I love you now, and I want to get you out of this. I'm going to do what I have to do to get you out of this, away from all this for good. Are you ready?
BLOOM: But that's not how this one's going to end. I love you now, and I want to get you out of this. I'm going to do what I have to do to get you out of this, away from all this for good. Are you ready?
BLOOM: Stephen's gone into town to prep the Argentina actors. Your money's at his place.
PENELOPE: Money? I don't want the money, let's just leave.
BLOOM: 172 INT. BEACH HOUSE - NIGHT 172
BLOOM: So I've told her our whole play. And I'm here. To take her money back. How's that make you feel?
STEPHEN: This isn't the ending you wanted?
BLOOM: This isn't the ending you wanted?
STEPHEN: It doesn't matter now. This is the way it ends. So let's get it over Where's the money?
BLOOM: Where's the money?
STEPHEN: I ate it.
BLOOM: Give me the money, Stephen.
STEPHEN: I don't want the money.
PENELOPE: I don't want the money.
BLOOM: He's not going to keep a single piece of you.
STEPHEN: I'm sorry you fell in love with her. But she's a mark. And all of this, all of it is a con. Every moment you shared with her, you were just playing the part of a man falling in love. That's what you're afraid of, right? That you don't know the difference? Or maybe that there is no difference. That that's what love is.
PENELOPE: We're leaving.
STEPHEN: ( to Bloom ) No. You're too scared to leave. You're scared to ride off into a sunset that isn't painted tarpaulin, cause real sunsets are beautiful but they turn into dark uncertain nights. If you were ready for that, you wouldn't be here. The money is in my bedroom. Right behind me. But in my story you don't get the money or the sunset or the girl.
PENELOPE: Bloom. Let's just go. Please.
STEPHEN: Tastes like tin foil.
BLOOM: I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
PENELOPE: He doesn't move from his brother. She leaves.
STEPHEN: ( nothing ) I think that was the most honest conversation we've ever had. ( more nothing ) You actually connected on a few of those punches.
BLOOM: Did you expect me to do it? To come here tonight, end it the way you wrote it? Or were you really disappointed I didn't run off with I was disappointed. But I wasn't I let you do your monologue, but you wanna know why I did it? I did it so she'd never want to see me again. To get her away from all this for good.
STEPHEN: I was disappointed. But I wasn't I let you do your monologue, but you wanna know why I did it? I did it so she'd never want to see me again. To get her away from all this for good.
BLOOM: I let you do your monologue, but you wanna know why I did it? I did it so she'd never want to see me again. To get her away from all this for good.
PENELOPE: 176 CONTINUED: 176
BLOOM: The Grandmother keeps up her barrage as she takes the groceries from Bloom, but as soon as she's behind Penelope's back she gives Bloom a wink, points to her and gives a thumbs- up of approval.
BLOOM: How did you find me?
PENELOPE: The Chink.
BLOOM: How did you find the Chink?
PENELOPE: She gave me her cell when we got to I didn't even know she had one.
BLOOM: I didn't even know she had one.
PENELOPE: I think she's kind of selective in who she gives the number to.
BLOOM: Why are you here, Penelope?
PENELOPE: Why did you decide to stay with your brother instead of coming with me in Mexico?
BLOOM: Everything Stephen said that night was true.
PENELOPE: I've been doing a lot of thinking the past three months. I want you to consider something.
BLOOM: Go away. Everything Stephen said was true. I was just playing you as a mark. Everything between us, none of it was real.
PENELOPE: I don't believe you.
BLOOM: Pick up. c'mon.
STEPHEN: 181 EXT. FERENTINO STREETS - CONTINUOUS 181
BLOOM: How quickly can you get to Uh. Nine-ish?
BLOOM: Click. As he's putting his pocket watch back, he finds the stack of green rubber band money in his breast pocket.
STEPHEN: So she comes back wanting to work with us. Honestly? I think we'd be lucky to have her. If you called me to hear my opinion on the matter. Which I'm getting the feeling you didn't.
BLOOM: I did what I did in Mexico to get her out of all this. I would rather die than bring her into the con.
STEPHEN: So maybe you want to tell me what I'm doing in Ferentino.
BLOOM: You knew she'd come back. What did you figure she was good for, another million?
STEPHEN: One point seven five.
BLOOM: We will play her again, one last con, but not for money. I'm gonna tell you how this one's gonna end. You built us into this, you're gonna fly us out, end it so she's done with all of us. End it all so it can't start up again.
STEPHEN: You want me to plan a con whose sole purpose is to blow her off for I love her. You owe me this. I don't want to turn her into me.
BLOOM: I love her. You owe me this. I don't want to turn her into me.
PENELOPE: So what's the next job?
STEPHEN: Before we do the next job, we need to liquidate our assets from the last job.
PENELOPE: But you've got-
STEPHEN: Your money from the last job, well that's profit, not capital, the three of us have already split it up. So step one: sell the book of I thought it was fake.
PENELOPE: I thought it was fake.
STEPHEN: With all your random expertise we couldn't risk a flat out fake. It isn't worth two point five million, we could maybe catch four hundred grand for it, but it's real. Who'd we buy it from?
BLOOM: Perfect, we'll sell it right back to him. If he wasn't dead.
STEPHEN: Perfect, we'll sell it right back to him. If he wasn't dead.
BLOOM: Well there's Demarco or Boyer. Or Roche, if we want to go state-side.
STEPHEN: All traceable. With Minskie out we'd have to go deep black market if we wanted to be a hundred percent clear. There's only one place that's deep enough for that.
PENELOPE: 187 INT. KARAOKE BAR BACK ROOM - LATER 187
BLOOM: Russia. It's like `cancer', I don't even like saying the word.
STEPHEN: We're obviously not going to deal with real Russians. They'll be our guys in a phony set up, they'll take our phony book and give her phony cash, a closed loop. Safe and simple. So. We go to St. Petersburg. She does the hand-off with our fake "Russians." But while we're driving out of town, everything goes bad.
STEPHEN: Our "Russians" have arrived.
BLOOM: Who'd you get, anyway?
STEPHEN: To play the "Russians?"
BLOOM: To play the "Russians?"
DIAMOND DOG: My boys.
BLOOM: I don't understand. Tell me so I understand. Three months ago you were ready to blind the old bastard-
STEPHEN: We need someone who can pass for the Russian mob to buy our fake book. The Dog's got his big store right here in St. Petersburg.
BLOOM: Alright, fuckin stop. You want this to finish in St. Petersburg, you want this to end with the Dog for some what thematic something? Fine but don't tell it like a story, let's say it. Twenty three years ago and I can still smell, that blood red apartment of his, the smell of that place. I hate him Stephen but this isn't that, this is I don't trust him.
STEPHEN: What's he gonna do? Steal our fake I've thought this one out, believe me. And we can't end it without him. Trust me. It's gonna be ok.
DIAMOND DOG: Stephen, still the grand architect with your symbols. Red for temptation, white for salvation. Impressive, boys.
BLOOM: It's trash. There's visible cross hatching in Franklin's eye.
DIAMOND DOG: Hm. I'll be damned. Ruskies wouldn't be caught dead handing over a rag bag like this, it should be a steel attache.
STEPHEN: This'll do. We'll do the drop off at your store. Make it scary, think a movie version of the Russian mafia, but don't hassle
DIAMOND DOG: The Dog closes the case, and for a moment Bloom's eyes rest on his bandaged hand. He then takes the case and quickly moves off with his crew.
STEPHEN: So. Our fake Russian attack. One small charge will simulate a bullet hit, and blow out the back window. So that one bang, then we roll off the road. Once we get clear of the car the Chink sets off the final charge, incinerating the car and the money in the trunk. This'll all happen exactly twenty seconds after we cross the main bridge out of town. After the bridge. You've been awful quiet. I'm doing this for her.
BLOOM: 195 INT. HOTEL HALLWAY - LATER 195
BLOOM: You've been awful quiet. I'm doing this for her.
PENELOPE: Tomorrow it all starts.
BLOOM: She gives the Dog the book, he gives her the fake money. This is taking too long.
PENELOPE: He hassled me. Took forever looking the book over, haggled the price. Wanted to pay me in Rubles.
STEPHEN: Alright. Let's get the hell out of
STEPHEN: They all four dive out of the car, Bloom shoving Penelope, tumbling into the thick forest an instant before the car becomes a roiling ball of flame. Bloom lies shell-shocked, his vision blurry. He vaguely sees Penelope passed out beside him, Stephen on the other side of the car. A DARK FIGURE comes trotting into the woods, shining a flashlight on the charred car. Goes to Stephen. Reaches down to him. Bloom's mind flutters away into darkness.
OUT!: They all four dive out of the car, Bloom shoving Penelope, tumbling into the thick forest an instant before the car becomes a roiling ball of flame. Bloom lies shell-shocked, his vision blurry. He vaguely sees Penelope passed out beside him, Stephen on the other side of the car. A DARK FIGURE comes trotting into the woods, shining a flashlight on the charred car. Goes to Stephen. Reaches down to him. Bloom's mind flutters away into darkness.
BLOOM: What happened?
PENELOPE: Are you alright?
BLOOM: What happened?
PENELOPE: Yeungling went to get another car.
BLOOM: Where's Stephen?
PENELOPE: We don't know. He was gone. We're going to find him. If he escaped, he'll contact us. If they've got him, it's for ransom.
BLOOM: Who's got him?
PENELOPE: The Russians.
BLOOM: Stephen, god please what's happening. I don't know what to do. I don't know Stephen please. Please. What's happening. Please.
PENELOPE: Where does she get all these cars?
BLOOM: If you know what's happening, now would be a really good time to speak up. No, please. Not now. I need your help here now, I don't know what to
CHEF: Ah, ah yes, Mr. Bloom. Yes, ok.
BLOOM: Uh huh. Assholes. Ok. Um, ok. So I've got "We are all assholes in our own theatrical enterprises." You sure?
CHEF: And then it end with "Goodbye shit Shit head?
BLOOM: Shit head?
CHEF: But it is different meaning in Mandarin, uh, endearing. "Shit head" if you have affection for
PENELOPE: What did it mean?
BLOOM: I don't know.
PENELOPE: What did it say?
BLOOM: "We're all of us marks in our own cons." And she said goodbye.
PENELOPE: I still can't believe it.
BLOOM: That the Chink fell for a car bomb? Neither can I.
PENELOPE: ( hopeful ) What? Oh, oh god do you think she faked it? So the Russians would think she was dead?
BLOOM: Bloom goes to the Bug.
PENELOPE: Where are you going?
BLOOM: This wasn't Russians. This was done by an old mentor of ours who wants us off the map. He has an apartment in St. Petersburg. So this is, yeah. I've gotta go back to that apartment to face the Dog and get my brother back. That's how I'm gonna end this.
PENELOPE: We can skip the whole you-sending- Thank Christ.
BLOOM: Thank Christ.
BLOOM: If there are shots you run to the car and drive, with or without me.
PENELOPE: What's in there? Tell me who this guy is.
BLOOM: He's just an old man.
BLOOM: Dog! I came back.
PENELOPE: Moth balls.
BLOOM: Is that what that smell is?
PENELOPE: ( in Russian ) It's okay. Honey, it's alright.
BLOOM: Ask him if anyone else is here.
BOY: Ask him where the Diamond Dog is.
BLOOM: Ask him where the Diamond Dog is.
PENELOPE: Diamond Dog? Where is the Diamond Dog?
BOY: ( in English ) The Dog of Diamonds is gone.
BLOOM: Get the car started.
PENELOPE: What about him?
BLOOM: It's alright.
BLOOM: Get out! Get out of the car!!
PENELOPE: It's a ransom note. It says they have Stephen, it says they want the money wired to a specific account, they give a bank to do it at and a manager to ask for.
BLOOM: I'll wire the money from my account, and we'll go get Stephen.
PENELOPE: It's a lot.
BLOOM: How much?
PENELOPE: I'll do it, I want to, I've got How much are they asking for?
BLOOM: How much are they asking for?
PENELOPE: One point seven five million.
BLOOM: Oh. Oh oh. No no NO. No I'll kill him. I'll kill him if that's what this is, if that's all that this is, no NO NO.
PENELOPE: What are you talking about?
BLOOM: There's another possibility that I should of, I'm a fucking idiot. This might all be a con. By my brother. To get me - oh god - he wanted me to face the Dog, to end it, and he gets your money. Oh god. I'm going to be sick.
PENELOPE: Would he do that? To you?
BLOOM: I don't know. Yes. Yes of course he would.
PENELOPE: But you don't know. Let's transfer the money. You don't know.
BLOOM: Son of a bitch.
PENELOPE: You don't know. This is your brother's life. I'm gonna wire the
PENELOPE: 217 EXT. BURNED OUT THEATER - DAY 217
BLOOM: I'm so scared. Anything I can imagine finding in there, I'm scared of.
PENELOPE: I'm going to be here when you come
BLOOM: 219 INT. THEATER AUDITORIUM 219
BLOOM: A spotlight snaps on from the mezzanine, right in Bloom's face. He spins, trapped in its glare. A guttural command is shouted in what might be Russian. When Bloom doesn't respond, the spot silently advances a few feet ahead of him towards the stage. Bloom gingerly follows it, up onto the splintered stage and finally resting on a split in the tarpaulin backdrop. With a wary glance back, Bloom steps through it.
BLOOM: ( unsteady ) Stephen. Game's up. Come on out. Let's blow this one hat town.
STEPHEN: No! No Bloom, freeze.
BLOOM: Stephen, who is it? Is it the Dog?
STEPHEN: Did Penelope wire the money?
BLOOM: They're calling to check right now. Don't move. I'm alright. Stay where you are, Bloom. I'm coming to you.
STEPHEN: They're calling to check right now. Don't move. I'm alright. Stay where you are, Bloom. I'm coming to you.
BLOOM: Bloom's revolver pops out of his sleeve and he's firing into the blackness. Stephen drops flat to the ground. The fiery rapport of a big pistol flashes from the blackness, strobing the scene like stage lightning. Bloom reloads behind the cover of a heavy flat, but Stephen lies on his stomach out in the open. 220 CONTINUED: ( 2 ) 220 But Bloom makes a dash for his brother, out into the open, unloading three more rounds into the dark. The dark figure returns fire on Bloom, who is sprinting full on his feet in a large pool of light. A sitting duck. Stephen launches himself up, tackling Bloom backwards. Just before they fall behind the safety of the flat, a red burst of blood flowers from Stephen's left lower back. Bloom sets him down gently, and hears heavy footsteps behind He turns, firing, but only sees a blur of dark coat go by, through the torn backdrop. Bloom runs out on stage, tearing the tarpaulin, and fires after the dark figure limping up the aisle and away into the Bloom walks back to Stephen, who lies behind the flat, breathing heavy. Blood soaking through his shirt.
STEPHEN: Stay back!
BLOOM: Please tell me this is all gonna be ok. Tell me that's a squib, and that's makeup, and that you just gave me what I always wanted and pulled off the perfect con. You said it, not me. Can I get a `wow' for this one?
STEPHEN: You said it, not me. Can I get a `wow' for this one?
BLOOM: You son of a bitch.
STEPHEN: Tastes like tin foil. Alright here's what I want you to do. The Chink split?
BLOOM: Yeah. Clean exit.
STEPHEN: Car bomb.
BLOOM: Car bomb.
STEPHEN: Good. Here's what. Take Penelope back to Helsinki, take that flight to Rio. Lay low like we said. Play out the on-the-run-from- vengeful-Russians thing, that'll be fun for her. Play it like I'm dead, actually - that'll add some gravity to everything, that'll be nice. And I'll see you when I see I hope not. Last thing you need is me hanging around. Anyway, how could I top this?
BLOOM: I hope not. Last thing you need is me hanging around. Anyway, how could I top this?
STEPHEN: I hope not. Last thing you need is me hanging around. Anyway, how could I top this?
BLOOM: I love you. Bye.
STEPHEN: Hey. Think of any card.
BLOOM: Stephen cuts, to the Queen of hearts.
STEPHEN: You're the only audience I've ever
PENELOPE: Hey. Hey, it's ok. The bridge is coming up, we're almost at the border. Were you dreaming about
BLOOM: Pull over. Pull over!!
PENELOPE: What is it? You're scaring me-
BLOOM: What did you ask the Russian kid, in the Dog's apartment? He said the Dog isn't here, then what did you ask?
PENELOPE: How long had he been alone.
BLOOM: And what did he say? Since yesterday morning.
PENELOPE: Since yesterday morning.
BLOOM: This is real. They hassled you.
PENELOPE: The Dog was gone before we got there. They hadn't cleared out of their apartment, they had been cleared out.
BLOOM: The Dog was gone before we got there. They hadn't cleared out of their apartment, they had been cleared out.
BLOOM: Real Russians. Took his store. They didn't know about his deal with us, but you haggled with them. You really sold the book to real Russians. The Diamond Dog was
STEPHEN: Let's get the hell out of Russia.
BLOOM: And they came after us. And
PENELOPE: I know.
BLOOM: Stephen saved my life.
PENELOPE: I know.
BLOOM: He's gone.
PENELOPE: And he did it so you could live. Your brother loved you. He loved you so much. Look at me. Stephen said something once, I got the feeling he'd rather be telling it to you. He said there's no such thing as an unwritten life. Just badly written ones. I love you.
THE END: Writers : Rian Johnson
