ANNIE: Which makes it like sex. There's never been a ballplayer slept with me who didn't have the best year of his career. Making love is like hitting a baseball you just got to relax and concentrate.
ANNIE: Besides, I'd never sleep with a player hitting under .250 unless he had a lot of R.B.I.'s or was a great glove man up the middle. A woman's got to have standards.
ANNIE: The young players start off full of enthusiasm and energy but they don't realize that come July and August when the weather is hot it's hard to perform at your peak level. The veterans pace themselves better. They finish stronger. They're great in September. While I don't believe a woman needs a man to be fulfilled, I do confess an interest in finding the ultimate guy he'd have that youthful exuberance but the veteran's sense of timing.
ANNIE: Y'see there's a certain amount of "life-wisdom" I give these boys. I can expand their minds. Sometimes when I've got a ballplayer alone I'll just read Emily Dickinson or Walt Whitman to him. The guys are so sweet they always stay and listen. Of course a guy will listen to anything if he thinks it's foreplay.
ANNIE: I make then feel confident. They make me feel safe. And pretty.
ANNIE: What I give them lasts a life-time. What they give me lasts 142 games. Sometimes it seems like a bad trade. But bad trades are part of baseball who can forget Frank Robinson or Milt Pappas, for Godsakes! It's a long season and you got to trust it.
ANNIE: I've tried them all I really have and the only church that truly feeds the soul day in, day out is the Church of Baseball.
SKIP: Where's Ebby?
LARRY: Ain't he warning up?
SKIP: ( cynically ) No. The guy's professional debut and he forgets about it.
LARRY: Better find our bonus baby, eh?
SKIP: Seen Ebby?
DEKE: ( mouthful of food )
SKIP: CLOSE ON A BARE ASS Baseball uniform around the ankles, short t-shirt on top, and on top of that the head of EBBY CALVIN LALOOSH, baseball cap on backwards. EBBY is a great looking energetic man-child with the endless confidence, naivete and horniness of youth. Life is a party. A YOUNG WOMAN, MILLIE, 20, half nude, is dressing quickly. EBBY WHIRLS as Skip enters.
SKIP: Jesus. Game starts in four minutes! Why ain't you warm?!
EBBY: I am warm.
SKIP: I'm fining you a hundred dollars. Jesus, Ebby, this is your professional debut tonight you know how many guys out there'd give blood to be in your shoes an' you're leavin' your fastball in the locker room for some piece of ass!
MILLIE: Skip, It's me! I'm not some quote piece of ass unquote.
SKIP: Oh, Millie, jeez, sorry I didn't recognize ya. Don't take it personal but if I catch you in here again you're banned from the ballpark.
MILLIE: You can't ban me from the ballpark 'cause Daddy donated the scoreboard and if you banned me he might take the scoreboard away.
SKIP: Whatta we need a scoreboard for? We haven't scored any runs all year Get your ass out there.
EBBY: Hey Boss, I got a question.
SKIP: ( stops, exasperated ) You think I need a nickname? I think I need a nickname. The great ones have nicknames somethin' like Oil Can or Catfish.
EBBY: You think I need a nickname? I think I need a nickname. The great ones have nicknames somethin' like Oil Can or Catfish.
SKIP: Ya got three minutes.
EBBY: Got time for another quickie?
MILLIE: Jesus, you got a game to pitch!
EBBY: But we got three minutes.
RECORDING: When the clock strikes two, three, and four and the band slows down we'll yell for more, gonna rock around the clock tonight. Number twenty-two's thighs are just great. Who's he?
ANNIE: Number twenty-two's thighs are just great. Who's he?
JACKSON: ( reading the program ) Jose Galindo. He hit .314 at Lynchburg last year.
ANNIE: Three-fourteen? Hmmm. Look't those thighs, Jackson.
ANNOUNCER: Let's hear it for Max Patkin
ANNOUNCER: "The Greatest Show on Dirt" your own Durham Bulls!
EBBY: I'm there, Skip, I'm ready.
WHITEY: Is this guy LaLoosh worth a hundred grand? I hear he's a quart low?
ANNIE: Millie, you've got to stay out of the clubhouse. It'll just get everybody in trouble.
MILLIE: I got lured.
ANNIE: You didn't get "lured". Women never get lured. They're too strong and powerful for that. Now say it "I didn't get lured and I will take responsibility for my actions".
MILLIE: "I didn't get lured and I will take responsibility for my actions".
ANNIE: That's better. Got the radar ready?
JACKSON: JACKSON AIMS A RADAR GUN at the plate. THE PENINSULA WHITE SOX LEADOFF HITTER steps in.
SKIP: Little high.
LARRY: ( shouts to EBBY ) C'mon big 'un, you're okay.
JACKSON: Ninety-five miles an hour.
ANNIE: He looks great, just great!
CATCHER: What the hell was that?! Lighten up a little. Awright?
EBBY: ( to catcher ) Hey what's your name again I'm bad with names
CATCHER: Ed. You want me to write it on my chest? Jesus .
EBBY: Sorry. Hey, Ed, I got a question.
CATCHER: Who's the beef sitting behind the third base dugout?
EBBY: Who's the beef sitting behind the third base dugout?
CATCHER: ( slowly ) That's Annie Savoy. Nice eh? But that's more woman than you ever dreamed of, Rook. She could kick your ass and have you for breakfast.
TEDDY: One ball and no strikes to Willie
ANNIE: Take this to Ebby in the dugout between innings.
JACKSON: What's it say?
ANNIE: It says he's not bending his back on his follow-through.
ANNIE: Well let's get down to it, honey how was he?
MILLIE: Well, he fucks like he pitches. Sorta all over the place
JOSE: Hey Lefty, hold 'em to 12 runs every night, you'll win 20
EBBY: ( he might be serious ) Had 'em all the way.
JIMMY: Dear Lord, thank you for being with us tonight, thank you for protecting us from injury and
DEKE: Wake up, wake up
MICKEY: This league is racist, man.
TONY: Every time you go 0 for 4 you think the league is racist face it, Mick, you're an equal opportunity
SKIP: He walked eighteen?!
LARRY: It's a league record.
SKIP: Struck out eighteen.
LARRY: League record. And he hit the Radio Announcer, a Sportswriter, and the Bull Mascot twice also league records Joe, the guy's got some serious shit. Who're you?
LARRY: Who're you?
CRASH: I am the player to be named later.
SKIP: Crash Davis?
CRASH: The Crash Davis. And you, Larry Hockett, should recognize me 'cause five years ago in the Texas League when you were pitching for El Paso and I was hitting cleanup for Shreveport, you hung a curve on an 0-2 pitch of a 3-2 game in bottom of the 8th and I tattooed it over the Goodyear Tire sign, beat you 4-3 and I got a free wheel alignment from Goodyear.
LARRY: ( remembering ) Oh yeah. I shoulda throwed a slider. Damn, Crash, how're ya?
SKIP: I'm Joe Riggins. Sit down
CRASH: I'm too old for this shit. Why the hell am I back in "A" ball?
SKIP: 'Cause of Ebby Calvin LaLoosh. The Big Club's got a hundred grand in him
LARRY: He's got a million dollar arm and a five cent head.
SKIP: we had the gun on him tonight the last five pitches he threw were faster than the first five. 96 miles an hour, 98, 97, 97. 97. He's got the best young arm I've seen in 30 years.
LARRY: But he ain't quite sure which plane he's on, y'know what I mean.
SKIP: You been around, you're smart, you're professional, you know what it takes We want you to mature the kid.
CRASH: "Mature" ain't a fuckin' verb.
LARRY: You go to college or what?
SKIP: We want you to room with him on the road and stay on his case all year. He can go all the way.
CRASH: And where can I go?
SKIP: You can keep going to the ballpark and keep gettin' paid to do it. Beats hell outta working at Sears.
LARRY: Sears sucks, Crash, I tried it once. Sold Lady Kenmores it's nasty, nasty work.
SKIP: Even if it's the Carolina League this is a chance to play everyday.
CRASH: ( angrily ) You don't want a player, you want a stable pony. My Triple A contract gets bought out so I can hold the Flavor o' the Month's dick in the bus leagues?! ( angrily ) Fuck this fucking game. I fuckin'
CRASH: Who we play tomorrow?
SKIP: Winston-Salem. Batting practice at
ED: You wanted to see me?
SKIP: Yeah, Ed, shut the door.
SKIP: This is the toughest job a manager has, Ed. But the organization has decided to make a change we're releasing you from your contract.
WHITEY: How's it feel to get your first professional win?
EBBY: It feels "out there". A major rush. I mean it doesn't just feel "out there" but it feels out there.
CRASH: Hopeless. Utterly fucking hopeless.
MILLIE: Hi, I'm Millie.
TONY: I'm Tony. I play left field.
MILLIE: I know.
MAX: Love the game, Annie, love it When I die I'm gonna have my ashes sprinkled around a pitcher's mound in some ballpark somewhere and I'll have a few ashes saved for the rosin bag so I'll still be in the game after I'm gone.
ANNIE: What a sweet idea
ANNIE: We didn't order this, honey.
WAITRESS: ( she points ) He did.
ANNIE: ( to Max ) Who's that?
MAX: Hey that's Crash Davis. He's played in more towns than I have. Helluva guy real different. I actually saw him read a book without pictures Really? Kinda cute.
ANNIE: Really? Kinda cute.
CRASH: I'm Crash Davis.
ANNIE: Annie Savoy. Wanta dance?
CRASH: I don't dance.
ANNIE: I don't trust a man who don't dance. It ain't natural.
MAX: Who's he dancing with?
ANNIE: All of 'em, I think.
EBBY: Thanks for the note you're right, I wasn't bending my back.
ANNIE: You got a live arm there.
EBBY: Ebby Calvin LaLoosh.
ANNIE: You need a nickname.
EBBY: That's what I been telling everybody! Wanta dance?
CRASH: She's dancing with me.
ANNIE: Crash, I didn't think you
CRASH: I'll learn. C'mon
EBBY: Just a minute, pal.
ANNIE: You boys gonna fight over little me?
EBBY: Step outside, pal.
CRASH: Love to
ANNIE: Oh don't be such guys
ANNIE: Hell, Max, wanta dance?
CRASH: I don't believe in fighting.
EBBY: Take the first shot at me.
CRASH: Take the first shot at me.
EBBY: I ain't hitting a man first.
CRASH: Hit me in the chest with this. I'd kill ya.
EBBY: I'd kill ya.
CRASH: From what I hear you couldn't hit a bull in the ass with a slingshot
EBBY: Don't try me.
CRASH: Throw it. C'mon, right in the chest.
EBBY: No way.
CRASH: C'mon, Meat. You can't hit me 'cause you're starting to think about it already, you're starting to think how embarrassing it'll be to miss, how all these people would laugh. C'mon, Rook show me that million dollar arm 'cause I'm getting a good idea about the five cent head
CRASH: Ball four.
EBBY: Who the fuck are you?!
CRASH: I'm Crash Davis. Your new catcher. And you just got Lesson Number One "Don't think it can only hurt the Buy ya a drink?
ECKSTEIN: ( on juke box ) April in Paris, chestnuts in blossom, Holiday tables under the tree.
EBBY: We fight, she gets the clown how's that happen?
CRASH: Shut up I like this song. April in Paris, this is a feeling, No one can ever reprieve.
EBBY: She's playing with my mind.
CRASH: It's a damn easy thing to play with.
ANNIE: Well you boys stopped fighting yet? Are you pals now? Good. I love a little macho male bonding I think it's sweet even if it's probably latent homosexuality being "re- channeled" but I believe in "re- channeling" so who cares, right? Shall we go to my place?
EBBY: Which one of us?
ANNIE: Oh both of you, of course.
ANNIE: These are the ground rules. I hook up with one guy a season I mean it takes me a couple of weeks to pick the guy kinda my own spring And, well, you two are the most promising prospects of the season so So. I thought we should get to know each other.
CRASH: Why do you get to choose? Why don't I get to choose?
ANNIE: Actually none of us on this planet ever really choose each other. It's all Quantum Physics and molecular attraction. There are laws we don't understand that bring us together and break us apart.
EBBY: Is somebody gonna go to bed with somebody or what?
ANNIE: You're a regular nuclear meltdown, honey slow down.
CRASH: After 12 years in the minor leagues, I don't tryout. Besides I don't believe in, Quantum Physics when it comes to matters of the heart. or What do you believe in?
ANNIE: ( challenging him ) What do you believe in?
CRASH: I believe in the soul, the cock, the pussy, the small of a woman's back, the hanging curve ball, high fiber, good scotch, long foreplay, show tunes, and that the novels of Thomas Pynchon are self-indulgent, overrated I believe that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone, I believe that there oughtta be a constitutional amendment outlawing astro-turf and the designated hitter, I believe in the "sweet spot", voting every election, soft core pornography, chocolate chip cookies, opening your presents on Christmas morning rather than Christmas eve, and I believe in long, slow, deep, soft, wet kisses that last for 7 days.
ANNIE: ( breathless ) Oh my. ( softly ) Don't leave.
CRASH: Crash heads out into the night. Annie hurries to the-door while Ebby sits on the couch, bewildered.
EBBY: Hey what's all this molecule stuff?
ANNIE: Wait, Crash don't go all I want is a date. I'm not gonna fall in love with you or nothin'.
CRASH: I'm not interested in a woman who's interested in that boy.
ANNIE: I'm not interested yet.
EBBY: Who you calling a "boy"?
CRASH: See ya at the yard, Meat.
ANNIE: No ballplayer ever said "no" to a date with me.
EBBY: Well shit, then, let's fuck.
ANNIE: Wait, honey, slow down I want to
ANNIE: No, no, no. Put it back on and take it off slowly.
EBBY: Jesus, what kinda broad are you?
ANNIE: When you know how to make love, you'll know how to pitch. Shh. I love this part.
ANNIE: Oh my what a nice back.
ANNIE: No, no, honey. first the shoes and The socks? It's cold in here.
EBBY: The socks? It's cold in here.
ANNIE: ( sweetly, unthreatening ) You think Dwight Gooden leaves his socks on?
ANNIE: Ebby honey have you ever been handcuffed in bed?
EBBY: Awright! I read about stuff like this. Bring it on!
ANNIE: Sweetie, have you ever heard of Walt Who's he play for?
EBBY: Who's he play for?
ANNIE: Well, he sort of pitches for the Cosmic All-Stars.
EBBY: Never heard of 'em.
ANNIE: Good then listen. "I sing the body electric. The armies of those I love engirth me and I engirth them "
EBBY: We gonna fuck or what?
ANNIE: Shh, shh. "They will not let me off till I go with them, respond to them, and discorrupt them and charge them"
ANNIE: "Limitless limpid jets of love hot and enormous quivering jelly of love, white blow and delirious juice
JIMMY: Listen up, guys, could I have your attention a minute? I'm going to be leading a daily chapel service at three in the afternoons here in the locker room and you're all invited to drop by and worship before batting practice.
BOBBY: Jimmy, God damn it loosen up and get laid.
JIMMY: I don't care If you think I'm square but I believe what I believe.
BOBBY: Jesus, Ebby, what truck ran over Call me "Nuke". Annie said it's my new nickname.
EBBY: ( glassy eyed ) Call me "Nuke". Annie said it's my new nickname.
DEKE: Annie nailed you? That's great, means you're gonna have a helluva year. Does she fuck as good as they say?
EBBY: We didn't do it, man she read poetry to me all night, I swear. It's more tiring than fucking.
EBBY: of love". hey, Crash, does that mean what I think it means? What's the deal here?
CRASH: Your shower shoes have fungus on 'em. You'll never get to the Bigs with fungus on your shower shoes. Think classy and you'll be classy. If you win 20 in the Show you can let the fungus grow back on your shower shoes and the press'll think you're colorful. Until you win twenty in the Show, however, it means you're a slob.
DEKE: This guy's bringing some serious smoke out there.
CRASH: He ain't got shit.
CRASH: You ain't getting that cheese by me,
CRASH: Throw that shit again, meat. Throw that weak ass shit. Now he's gotta try to slip the cheese by me. One and one. You're on top. Now bring me the gas P.O.V. PITCHER'S THIRD DELIVERY High and tight. Right
CRASH: This son of a bitch throws hard. Annie, Annie, Annie who is this Jesus, get outta the box you idiot, where's your head? Get the broad outta your head.
CRASH: Time out.
UMP: Time out!
BAT BOY: Get a hit, Crash.
CRASH: Shut up.
CRASH: Awright, awright. You've seen all his pitches. Two and one. Relax. Wait. Quick bat. You can hit this
CRASH: Shorten up. Bring the gas. Be quick be quick yeah, yeah.
DEKE: Serious heat, eh?
CRASH: He ain't got shit. From Annie.
BAT BOY: From Annie.
CRASH: Read it.
BAT BOY: Dear Crash. You have a lovely swing but you're pulling your hips out too early. I'd be happy to meet you at the Batting Cage tomorrow to discuss it. Signed, Annie.
DEKE: Well if there's one chick'd know when you're pulling your hips out early, Annie's the one.
ANNIE: ( looking through the glasses ) What'd he say?
JACKSON: It says. "I want to make. love to you. Crash".
ANNIE: Oh my.
ANNIE: See my hips?
CRASH: I think Thomas Pynchon's a genius.
ANNIE: I think Thomas Pynchon's a genius.
CRASH: When you're hitting you shouldn't think about anything but hitting. But you shouldn't think about it too much. The trick is to use your brain to not use your brain.
ANNIE: But you were pulling your hips last So. Wanta make love?
CRASH: So. Wanta make love?
ANNIE: I'm committed to Nuke for the season. You had your chance the other night.
CRASH: What'you see in that guy he's dim, pretty boy. A young, wild.
ANNIE: Young men are uncomplicated. And he's not "dim". He's just inexperienced. My job is to give him "life-wisdom" and help him make it to the major leagues.
CRASH: That's my job too.
ANNIE: You're pulling your hips out.
CRASH: You're pulling your hips out.
ANNIE: But they're nice hips. I looked up your records You've hit 227 home runs in the minors. That's great!
CRASH: Don't tell anybody.
ANNIE: Why not? If you hit twenty homers this year you'll be the all time minor league champ! The record's.
CRASH: 247 home runs in the minors would be a dubious honor, if ya think about Oh no, I think it'd be great! The Sporting News should know about it.
ANNIE: Oh no, I think it'd be great! The Sporting News should know about it.
CRASH: No. Please.
ANNIE: Let me.
CRASH: Let me.
CRASH: Your place or mine?
ANNIE: Despite my love of weird metaphysics and my rejection of most Judao- Christian ethics, I am, within the framework of a baseball season, Fact is you're afraid of meeting a guy like me 'cause it might be real so you sabotage it with some bullshit about commitment to a young boy you can boss around Great deal. You get to write self- indulgent little poems all winter about how hard it is to find a man even though you just sent him packing So what do you really want? You wanta be a tragic woman figure wallowing in the bullshit of magic? Or do you want a guy?
CRASH: Fact is you're afraid of meeting a guy like me 'cause it might be real so you sabotage it with some bullshit about commitment to a young boy you can boss around Great deal. You get to write self- indulgent little poems all winter about how hard it is to find a man even though you just sent him packing So what do you really want? You wanta be a tragic woman figure wallowing in the bullshit of magic? Or do you want a guy?
ANNIE: Oh Crash. you do make speeches.
CRASH: ( as he signs autographs ) Well, Annie, your place or mine?
ANNIE: You got me all confused.
CRASH: A batter has two tenths of a second to decide whether to swing
ANNIE: I'm not a real batter. I'm a woman.
LITTLE LEAGUER: Hey, when are you guys gonna start winning? You're terrible!
ANNIE: It's a long season, boys.
NUKE: ( coming over ) What're you guys doing here stealing my girl?
CRASH: Now, Nuke, would I do a thing like Hey kids, this is the great Ebby Calvin "Nuke" LaLoosh.
LITTLE LEAGUERS: It's Nuke, it's Nuke! Can I have your autograph?! Etc.
NUKE: No prob, kids
CRASH: See you guys at the ballpark.
ANNIE: Yes, yes, yesnmmmmyes. Oh my. Oh, that was just fabulous, Crash.
NUKE: He flips on a lamp near the bed.
NUKE: You mean Nuke. You said "Crash".
ANNIE: I didn't say "Crash". I said Nuke.
NUKE: You said "Crash".
ANNIE: Honey, don't ever listen to a woman when she's making love. They'll say the strangest things.
NUKE: You said "Crash".
ANNIE: Would you rather me be making love to him, using your name, or making love to you, using his name?
NUKE: Yeah maybe you're right.
ANNIE: You see how nice things are when we go slow?
NUKE: Mmm, hmmm. You shoulda seen how many people came to the airport to see me off. When I got drafted first it was the happiest day of my Father's life. He likes baseball more than I do.
ANNIE: You can learn to like it.
NUKE: I wanted to be the host of Dance Fever, somethin' like that.
ANNIE: Y'know if you make it to the Bigs you could still become the host of Dance Fever. Baseball's a good stepping stone for things like that.
NUKE: God, I never thought of that.
ANNIE: ( sweetly ) There is a lot of things you never thought of, sweetie now get some rest for tonight's game.
NUKE: Hello? Dad? This is Ebby. Yeah, I know, I know you got the Durham papers yet? Well I been a little wild. These hitters down here are better than the ones in high school. How's Mom? Yeah? Well I am trying hard. I am bending my back. you're not coming down' here to visit just yet, are you? Can I talk to Mom?
MAYOR: Welcome to the "Atlantic Seaboard Tobacco Growers City Council Little League Cash Drop Night"!
CRASH: Drive off your back leg. You pitch with your legs as much as your arms
NUKE: I thought I was
CRASH: Don't think.
MILLIE: Hi, I'm Millie.
BOBBY: I'm married.
BOBBY: What's that?
JOSE: Chicken bone cross take the curse off this bat and bring me hits.
BOBBY: You a God damn witch?
JOSE: Yes. A switch hitting witch. Very common in Puerto Rico.
BOBBY: Will that work for me?
JOSE: If you believe in Voodoo.
BOBBY: I'm 0 for 16! Gimme some of that
JOSE: No, that is not belief. That is C'mon, God damn it, gimme some!
BOBBY: C'mon, God damn it, gimme some!
MAYOR: .five, four, three, two, one. let 'er go! One thousand big ones!
CRASH: Don't try to strike everybody out. Strikeouts are boring. They're Fascist. Throw some ground balls, it's more Democratic.
CRASH: And listen, meat. You don't know shit. If you want to get to the Show, you'll listen to me. She only wants you 'cause she can boss you around, got it? Relax, have a ball out here. This game's fun, okay? Fun, God damn it. And don't squeeze the ball so tight. It's an egg. Hold it like an egg.
NUKE: Fun? What's he know about fun? Why's he calling for a curveball? I wanta bring heat.
CRASH: Shake off the pitch. Throw what you
CRASH: Why you shaking me off?
NUKE: I wanta throw the heater to announce my presence with authority.
CRASH: "To announce your fucking presence with authority"? This guy's a first ball fastball hitter. He's looking for heat.
NUKE: But he ain't seen my heat
CRASH: Awright, meat, give him your heat.
CRASH: Why's he always call me "Meat"? I'm the guy driving a Porsche.
NUKE: Why's he always call me "Meat"? I'm the guy driving a Porsche.
CRASH: What're you lookin' at?! You're showing up my pitcher, bush get your ass in gear!
CRASH: Guy hit the shit outta that one, eh?
NUKE: Well, I held it like an egg.
CRASH: An' he scrambled the son of a bitch. Having fun yet?
NUKE: I'm having a blast. God, that sucker teed off on it just like he knew I was gonna throw a He did know.
CRASH: He did know.
NUKE: I told him.
CRASH: I told him.
NUKE: Don't think. Just throw. Don't think. Just throw.
NUKE: God, that was beautiful. What'd I
ANNIE: Oh dear. easy honey.
JACKSON: Ninety-five miles an hour.
NUKE: Christ, Skip and Larry are talking about me. Don't get anybody warm in the pen yet. I'm okay. I'm having
NUKE: Don't yank me in the first, man.
NUKE: Aw, shit.
SKIP: Don't pull me, Skip. I'll settle down. I'm okay!
NUKE: Don't pull me, Skip. I'll settle down. I'm okay!
SKIP: ( fatherly ) Relax, Nuke, Relax. ( to Crash ) What kinda stuff's he got?
CRASH: I don't know. I haven't caught anything yet.
SKIP: What're you thinking about out here, I'm trying not to think.
NUKE: I'm trying not to think.
SKIP: Good. But just 'cause you ain't s'posed to think don't mean you ain't s'posed to use your head.
CRASH: Have some fun, God damn it.
ANNIE: Here we go again, Jackson, hold on
SKIP: Anybody not outta the shower in ten seconds gonna get fined a hundred bucks. One, two.
SKIP: No press for five minutes, Whitey.
WHITEY: I'm doing a column on the Myth of Sisyphus as manifest in a minor league losing streak, Joe, and I thought.
SKIP: If I ever need a brain transplant I'll choose a sportswriter 'cause that way I'd be getting a brain that's never been used.
SKIP: What're you laughing at?!
SKIP: You guys lollygag the ball around the infield, ya lollygag you're way to first, ya lollygag in an' outta the dugout. You know what that makes Lollygaggers. What's our record, We're eight and sixteen.
LARRY: We're eight and sixteen.
SKIP: Eight and sixteen?! How'd we ever win eight? Jose, what's this sign?
JOSE: That's the steal.
SKIP: Wrong. That's the bunt. This is the
SKIP: Face is "skin to skin". Skin starts with "S". "S" stands for steal if it follows the indicator which is hand to eye 'cause the word "indicator" starts with an "I" so I figure "eye" would remind you of "I" for indicator to indicate that what follows is the sign. I figure wrong You're a buncha lollygaggers. This is a simple game. ya throw the ball, ya hit the ball, ya catch the ball.
BOBBY'S WIFE: Bobby went hitless again. He's gonna be in a terrible mood. terrible. How'd Mickey do?
MICKEY'S WIFE: He got two hits.
BOBBY'S WIFE: Lucky you.
SKIP: We can't win at home how we gonna win on the road? We got a twelve day road trip starting tomorrow. Bus leaves at six in the morning.
BOBBY: You wanted to see me?
SKIP: Yeah, Bobby, shut the door. This is the toughest job a manager But the organization has decided to make a change
BOBBY: Skip, I know I'm in a slump but I hit the ball hard tonight, right at 'em. A couple flares drop in, and I'm back in the groove!
BOBBY'S WIFE: ( to child ) There's Daddy! Wave to Daddy!
BOBBY'S WIFE: Oh God.
ANNIE: I want you to wear these on the road trip when you pitch.
NUKE: They'll fit snugly against your balls in such a wonderful way that you'll start seeing things differently plus they'll remind you of me which is better than thinking about those nasty hitters.
ANNIE: They'll fit snugly against your balls in such a wonderful way that you'll start seeing things differently plus they'll remind you of me which is better than thinking about those nasty hitters.
NUKE: Jesus, Annie, I don't know
ANNIE: You've been pitching out of the wrong side of your brain. These'll help move things to the right side.
NUKE: Big League pitchers don't use these.
ANNIE: They did when they were in the Carolina League.
ANNIE: Men don't realize that women always know when they've been unfaithful. The fact is, upon exact moment of penetration the woman knows.
ANNIE: This sort of spiritual awareness can be a mixed blessing, especially if you're dating a ballplayer. I believe a woman oughta take care of her man so thoroughly that he can go on the road for a few days without having the desire to search out another pair of panties That is probably, however, my most ridiculous belief. I just hope the boys start winning soon. In some profound way I fear that a last place team is a reflection on its women.
SKIP: I got one word to say to you Shut
NUKE: ( singing softly ) Oh she may get wooly, women do get wooly, because of all the stress.
CRASH: ( in disgust ) Gimme that.
CRASH: I hate people who get the words wrong. It ain't "woolly" it's "weary" and it nobody's got stress, they're wearing a dress.
CRASH: ( sings softly ) Oh she may be weary, Young girls do get weary, Wearing the same old
NUKE: How come you don't like me?
CRASH: 'Cause you don't respect yourself, which is your problem, but you don't respect the game and that's my You got a gift.
NUKE: What do I got?
CRASH: A gift. When you were a baby the gods reached down and turned your left arm into a thunderbolt.
CRASH: You got a Hall of Fame arm but you're pissing it away.
NUKE: I ain't pissing nothing away I got a Porsche already. A 944 with A.C. and a quadraphonic Blaupunkt.
CRASH: You don't need a quadraphonic Blaupunkt you need a curve ball. In the Show, everybody can hit the You been in the Majors?
NUKE: You been in the Majors?
CRASH: Tony and Deke overhear this and turn around. And Crash gets wistful, lyrical, and even slightly hopeful.
CRASH: I was in the Show for 21 days, once. It was the greatest 21 days of my life. You never touch your luggage in the show somebody else handles your bags. It's great. The ballparks are like cathedrals, the hotels all have room service, the women have long legs and brains it's a smorgasbord.
DEKE: The women are hot, eh?
CRASH: Yeah and so are the pitchers. They throw ungodly breaking stuff in the Show exploding sliders.
CRASH: You could be one of those guys but you don't give a fuck, Meat.
NUKE: God damn it I'm sick of you calling me "Meat"! You wanta step outside!
CRASH: Yeah, let's go.
NUKE: No. Wait a minute. Calm down, Crash.
NUKE: Teach me how to throw a breaking
CRASH: As I was saying ya hold it like an
TEDDY: ( on the air ) .double off the wall by Higgins, and once again the Durham pitchers are unable to get the first out of the inning.
TEDDY: ( on the air ) Line drive to center a diving stab by McFee ohhhh! Ball gets by his glove, another run in and the crowd loves it
TEDDY: ( on the air ) Base hit centerfield off LaLoosh.
TEDDY: ( on the air ) That closes the book on LaLoosh today, 5 earned runs, 5 hits, 5 strikeouts, 5 walks, 5 wild pitches.
TEDDY: ( on the air ) It's time to tell it like it is, sports fans and this is the most wretched road trip I've seen in 20 years, and possibly the worst Durham team in half a century. ( beat ) Where are the great Bull players of yesteryear? Where are the Footsie Blakes, the Digger O'Dells, the Gus
TEDDY: ( on the air ) Is the modern athlete a pale imitation of the great old warriors? Only Crash Davis stands out this year, begging the question, "What are these boys thinking about, 'cause it sure ain't
TONY: Ice skaters. God. Look't em. that's what we need, y'know one night with some skaters and we can get back on track.
DEKE: We need a night off just to stop our losing streak. We need a rainout.
CRASH: I can get us a rainout.
MICKEY: It's 90 degrees, there ain't been a cloud in the sky in weeks.
CRASH: Hundred bucks says I can get us a rainout tomorrow.
TONY: You're on.
NIGHT: THE FOUR PLAYERS sit on the scoreboard, watching the sprinklers flood the field. A six-pack is passed around.
DEKE: Party! I blew a whole day's meal money for this champagne seven dollars, man, it better be good.
MICKEY: For seven bucks it better be some serious shit.
TOMMY: What time is it, eh? When are they
NUKE: This is from Tony for the rainout. C'mon, man, let's go to the party.
CRASH: "Naw"? There's ice skaters coming! You ever made love to an ice skater?
NUKE: "Naw"? There's ice skaters coming! You ever made love to an ice skater?
CRASH: By the dozen. Holiday on Ice, Ice Capades, Ice Follies I'm through with one night stands.
NUKE: You're through with one night stands?! What do you want?
CRASH: I just wanta play everyday despite small nagging injuries and go home to a woman who appreciates how full of crap I truly am.
NUKE: You're weird, man I want a ice skater real bad.
CRASH: Go for it.
NUKE: If I get laid, you won't tell Annie?
CRASH: I won't have to.
DEKE: It's them, it's them! Be casual. Come in!
NUKE: Hey, guys, party!
TOMMY: Shut up and be cool, man. Like Mickey
MICKEY: You wanta make it to the Show, Rock, you gotta learn how to "lounge".
NUKE: How's this?
MICKEY: You got it.
TOMMY: EIGHT ICE SKATERS STAND IN THE DOORWAY Ready to.
MICKEY'S WIFE: Do you think your husband plays around on the road trips?
DEKE'S WIFE: No way. Well. God. do we have to talk about that?
MICKEY'S WIFE: I guess not. it's just that once I asked Mickey if he was faithful to me on the road trips and he said "in his heart he was faithful". What the hell does that mean?
DEKE'S WIFE: It means he's unfaithful but only a man would put it in those words.
SKIP: I just got one word to say to everybody shut up!
SKIP: Nuke get everybody in here. Hundred dollar fine anybody's not here in
NUKE: Get your holy ass in Room 401.
NUKE: Hundred dollar fine if you're not in #401 in five.
JOSE: Hundred dollars?!
TONY: Christ. Sorry ladies.
NAKED LADY: Go to hell! You're in last place
NUKE: Crash! Skip wants everybody in #401 for a team meeting. Hundred buck fine if ya don't show!
CRASH: Party without me.
NUKE: God what a Big League move.
SKIP: Who are you?
SKIP: No. I want you to hear my philosophy. It'll do you some good Here it is. This is a simple game. You throw the ball, you hit the ball, you catch the ball. You got that?!
SKIP: Are you lovely creatures aware that you are about to compromise yourselves with a buncha bums who are what are we?
LARRY: Eight and twenty-four.
SKIP: Eight and twenty-four! How'd we ever win 8 games?
LARRY: It's a miracle.
SKIP: Look, guys I'm a man, I got needs too. I understand this party sex is the one thing you can get further behind in and catch up faster than anything I know. There's a baseball lesson in there Where's Crash?
NUKE: He can't make it. Here's his fine.
SKIP: Aw Christ, he don't have to come. He's hitting .350.
TOMMY: Don't you think that's a double standard we're here and he ain't?
SKIP: I believe in a double standard for guys hitting .350. Look, men you got a choice. You wanta be roasting your nuts off for Midas Muffler welding exhaust pipes up the assholes of Cadillacs. or You wanta be sitting in the Caddy while some other guy's crawling around in a monkey suit with a blow torch? There's only two places you can be in life in the Caddy or under it. These are the best years of your lives. These are the glamor days. It don't got any better than this. But. if this club don't start winning soon, there's gonna be changes
DEKE'S WIFE: ( wistfully ) Deke was a great player in high school. I thought held go right to the Major Leagues I was gonna be a Big League wife. ( beat ) Pass the Pampers, please.
CRASH: Helluva guy
NUKE: Can I ask you something?
CRASH: What would you think of a pitcher who wore women's panties?
NUKE: What would you think of a pitcher who wore women's panties?
CRASH: If he had a good breaking ball, I'd respect the shit outta him.
NUKE: CRASH LEANS OVER and shakes him.
CRASH: Wake up, it's okay. you're
NUKE: I was playing naked.
CRASH: I know, I know I have that dream all the time. We're almost home.
NUKE: God I'm tired. What a trip I was lousy. I was worse than lousy. Everytime I pitched it was like throwing gasoline on a fire. Kaboom.
I: What is this "I, I, I" stuff? You only talk about yourself? Aren't you glad to see me? Don't I look nice?
ANNIE: What is this "I, I, I" stuff? You only talk about yourself? Aren't you glad to see me? Don't I look nice?
NUKE: Sorry. You look great. I'm totally Good. Total exhaustion can be spiritually fabulous. Let's play catch.
ANNIE: Good. Total exhaustion can be spiritually fabulous. Let's play catch.
NUKE: CUT TO:
JACKSON: Hum, babe, hum, babe, fire it in here, hum babe
ANNIE: That's not necessary, Jackson Okay, Nuke, now lean in for the sign.
NUKE: This in ridiculous. I'm a pro.
ANNIE: Just do what I say. Now, which nostril are you breathing through?
NUKE: Which nostril am I breathing through?
ANNIE: The right nostril. Good.
NUKE: My right nostril?
ANNIE: There are two important psychic conduits called the "pingala" and the "ida". The pingala starts with the left testicle ( or left ovary of the female ) and ends at the right
ANNIE: The ida originates at the right testicle ( or ovary ) and terminates at the left nostril.
NUKE: I'm really beat. I need some serious The pingala is the nostril used for throwing a baseball. And if you discover before a game you're in the wrong nostril, it's easy to switch.
ANNIE: The pingala is the nostril used for throwing a baseball. And if you discover before a game you're in the wrong nostril, it's easy to switch.
NUKE: Switch nostrils?
ANNIE: Right. Okay, fire a couple in there.
ANNIE: You're patronizing me! I will not be If I throw too hard I'll hurt the He's handled a lotta pitchers whose records were better than one and
NUKE: If I throw too hard I'll hurt the He's handled a lotta pitchers whose records were better than one and
ANNIE: He's handled a lotta pitchers whose records were better than one and
NUKE: ( a bit angry ) How was that?
ANNIE: A little better.
NUKE: Gimme the God damn ball!
NUKE: ( cynically ) How ya like that?
ANNIE: Much better. Your delivery was fully integrated because you weren't thinking about it 'cause you were pissed off at me. This is progress.
NUKE: I give up. Let's go inside, make love, and fall asleep till it's time to go to the ballpark.
ANNIE: ( taking his hand ) .We could just take that sexual energy and save it for a few hours and re-channel it into your pitching ( shouting ) C'mon, Jackson, I've got some
NUKE: I can't keep up with you. First you say sex is gonna make me a better pitcher now no sex is gonna do It's all the same thing.
ANNIE: It's all the same thing.
NUKE: What's that?!
ANNIE: ( matter of factly ) That's Max. His ashes anyway. He left no kin.
NUKE: God. I think I'm gonna be sick
ANNIE: Oh don't be silly. Death is nothing to be scared of. It's just another way of living. It's just a fresh start kinda like spring training.
NUKE: Death is like spring training?
ANNIE: Yes. And so is birth. Now look me in the eyes, Nuke You haven't been wearing my panties, have you?
CRASH: Hot. Very hot.
NUKE: Annie says her panties will keep one side of my brain occupied while I'm on the mound, thus keeping my brain slightly off center, which is where it should be for artists and pitchers. She also said I should throw whatever pitches you call for.
CRASH: Annie's a smart lady.
DEKE: Hey, fruit alert! Check out the Rook.
NUKE: Annie says there's no such thing as straight and gay. We're all sexual creatures to start with, and we get formed into certain roles.
TOMMY: You believe that?
NUKE: When I'm one and six I'll believe Annie also says that God is a woman. You believe that, Crash, you think God's a lady?
CRASH: God's definitely a woman but she's no lady.
TOMMY: This is all Commie bullshit. God has a dick, man.
TONY: God damn it, Jimmy, you're an expert does God have a dick or a pussy?
JIMMY: The Lord God is tri-une Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.
TOMMY: Father and Son. Awright!
MICKEY: ( baiting them ) Yeah, but He is a brother.
TOMMY: Bullshit! God ain't no brother!
DEKE: If there is a God, why am I hitting
SKIP: Shut up! This is a damn noisy clubhouse for a team that's lost 15
SKIP: Patkin was a tribute to baseball.
LARRY: .and one helluva guy.
GOSPEL SINGER: ( singing ) I come to the garden alone, When the dew is still on the roses, And the voice I hear, whispering in my ear,. The Son of God discloses
NUKE: God, these panties feel great. That don't make me queer, right? Right. Breaking ball.
NUKE: I ain't queer. I know I ain't.
JACKSON: Ninety-three miles an hour.
ANNIE: He looks wonderful, Jackson.
NUKE: Fastball again? Why's he want the heat I just threw heat. Don't think, Meat give 'em the gas.
SKIP: Jesus what's got into Nuke?
LARRY: I heard he's wearing women's underwear and he's breathing through his pingala I'm getting too old for this game. P.O.V. NUKES FASTBALL SHATTERS A BAT THE HITTER hits a
SKIP: ( spitting tobacco ) I'm getting too old for this game.
NUKE: God, Annie's got a great ass. How come her panties fit me? That's one of the mysteries of sex I guess.
NUKE: I was great, eh?
CRASH: Your fastball was up and your curveball was hanging in the Show they woulda ripped you.
NUKE: Can't you let me enjoy the moment?
CRASH: The moment's over. If this guy starts me off with a breaking ball, I'm going downtown
CRASH: I dare you to throw me the hammer you ain't that stupid.
CRASH: Breaking ball you fool!
ANNIE: Oh my.
NUKE: Hey, I'm cruisin', man what're you doing out here?!
CRASH: I want you to throw this one at the bat rack.
NUKE: Why?! I'm finally throwin' the damn thing where I want to.
CRASH: It'll keep the fear of God in the hitters. Trust me.
NUKE: You're the boss.
BATTER: This guy's crazy.
CRASH: Yep. Next one might be at your head. Hell if I know where the damn thing's
NUKE: Bear down, Meat, don't let up. You own these guys. Dad'll love a P.O.V. CRASH FLASHES THE SIGN Nuke doesn't like it.
NUKE: No, no this guy's looking for heat lemme give him the deuce
ANNIE: Oh no he's shaking off the sign, Jackson. Big mistake.
JACKSON: He'll learn.
CRASH: This son of a bitch is throwing a two hit shutout and he's shaking me Hey Charlie, here comes the deuce.
NUKE: You told him I was throwing a deuce, Yep. He really crushed that dinger, didn't he. Musta gone 450 feet.
CRASH: Yep. He really crushed that dinger, didn't he. Musta gone 450 feet.
ANNIE: I'm yours.
NUKE: Y'know, Annie, I been thinking if it works for one game, maybe it'll work for a whole buncha games.
ANNIE: Breathing through your pingala always works, honey
NUKE: Not that. I mean the re-channeling of my sexual energy. Maybe we shouldn't make love for Now don't go overboard, I look incredibly hot, right?
ANNIE: Now don't go overboard, I look incredibly hot, right?
NUKE: You know what it feels like to throw a three hitter? We better not fuck.
ANNIE: Just till I lose.
NUKE: Just till I lose.
ANNIE: Get over here.
NUKE: Ebby Calvin "Nuke" LaLoosh
ANNIE: Ebby Calvin "Nuke" LaLoosh
NUKE: I love winning, Crash, you hear me? I love it. Teach me everything.
CRASH: It's time you started working on your interviews.
NUKE: What do I gotta do?
CRASH: Learn your clichés. Study them. Know them. They're your friends.
CRASH: Write this down. "We gotta play 'em one day at a time."
NUKE: Of course. That's the point. "I'm just happy to be here and hope I can help the ballclub."
CRASH: Of course. That's the point. "I'm just happy to be here and hope I can help the ballclub."
NUKE: Write, write "I just wanta give It my best shot and, Good Lord willing, things'll work out."
CRASH: Write, write "I just wanta give It my best shot and, Good Lord willing, things'll work out."
NUKE: ".Good Lord willing, things'll work out."
CRASH: Yep. So how's Annie?
NUKE: She's getting steamed 'cause I'm still re-channeling my sexual energy maybe I should cave in and sleep with her once just to calm her down. What'ya think?
CRASH: You outta your mind? If you give in now you might start losing. Never fuck with a winning streak.
MILLIE: Hi, Jimmy. Want a ride?
JIMMY: ( nervously ) Have you accepted Jesus Christ as your personal savior?
MILLIE: Can I give you my testimony?
JIMMY: Can I give you my testimony?
MILLIE: You can do anything you want. Hop in.
ANNIE: I'm so proud of you and all the guys. Want some more soup?
NUKE: No, no, it was great.
ANNIE: How 'bout a back rub?
NUKE: No, that's okay. All I need's a little I'll tuck you in.
ANNIE: I'll tuck you in.
NUKE: ( nervously ) You can't seduce me.
ANNIE: I'm not gonna try to seduce you,
NUKE: What's that?
ANNIE: That's my leg.
NUKE: I know what it is.
ANNIE: I figure we could work on some fundamentals even if we don't make
NUKE: ( beat ) Unsnap my stockings.
ANNIE: ( beat ) Unsnap my stockings.
NUKE: Crash once called a woman's, uh pussy y'know how the hair kinda makes a "V" shape?
ANNIE: Yes I do.
NUKE: Well he calls it the Bermuda Triangle. He said a man can get lost in there and never be heard from What a nasty thing to say.
ANNIE: What a nasty thing to say.
NUKE: He didn't mean it nasty. He said that gettin' lost and disappearing from the face of the earth was sometimes a good thing to do especially like that.
ANNIE: ( beat ) Crash is a very smart man. Now c'mon, honey, give it a try.
ANNIE: Watch. one hand
NUKE: ANNIE RE-SNAPS THEM QUICKLY, offering her leg to Nuke.
ANNIE: Now you try.
ANNIE: ( sighing sexually ) Mmmmmmm. oh yes.
NUKE: No! You're playing with my mind!
ANNIE: I'm trying to play with your body!
NUKE: I knew it you're seducing me!
ANNIE: Of course I'm seducing you for Godsakes, and I'm doing a damn poor job of it Aren't I pretty?
NUKE: I think you're real cute.
ANNIE: Cute?! I hate cute! Baby ducks are cute! I wanta be exotic and You're exotic and mysterious and cute that's why I better leave.
NUKE: You're exotic and mysterious and cute that's why I better leave.
ANNIE: Nuke! You got things all wrong! There's no relation between sex and baseball. Ask Crash.
NUKE: I did.
ANNIE: What'd he say?
NUKE: He said if I gave in to you I'd start losing again.
ANNIE: He did?
NUKE: I'll be back when we lose.
CRASH: Come in.
ANNIE: Crash. I want you.
CRASH: Nuke won't go to bed with you, eh?
ANNIE: He's confused
CRASH: Aren't we all?
ANNIE: Don't you think I'm pretty?
CRASH: You're gorgeous, God damn it! From the moment I first saw you I knew I had to have you. I had to have you!
ANNIE: I want to be had.
CRASH: I think of you and the "boy" all the He won't make love to me anymore.
ANNIE: He won't make love to me anymore.
CRASH: And he's right! A ballplayer on a streak has to respect the streak. They don't happen very often. You know how hard this game is? If you believe you're playing well because you're getting laid or because you're not getting laid or because you wore red silk panties then you are! And I still think Thomas Pynchon is full of shit.
ANNIE: I want you desperately!
CRASH: Who are you? Do you have a job?
ANNIE: I teach part time at the Junior College. What if I told you I was through with Nuke? He learned his lessons quickly and left me.
CRASH: And now you wanta teach me?
ANNIE: I don't imagine there's much I could teach you.
CRASH: I doubt that.
ANNIE: Crash, I get wet just thinking about I thought you wanted an "uncomplicated" boy?
CRASH: I thought you wanted an "uncomplicated" boy?
ANNIE: I'm ready for a complicated man.
CRASH: and as soon as we lose a game, he'll be back in your arms.
ANNIE: I said when I think about you, I get Annie, I think you should leave.
CRASH: Annie, I think you should leave.
ANNIE: God damn you what is happening? Is there no man who'll have me? This is the weirdest season I ever saw the Durham Bulls can't lose and I can't get laid!
CRASH: ( softly ) You okay?
ANNIE: ( shakily ) I need a drink.
CRASH: Why baseball?
ANNIE: ( sighs ) I was raised in a Baptist church got dipped in the water when I was 5 born again before kindergarten. by the time I was 10 I knew it was bullshit and at 15 I ran away from
ANNIE: pregnant, had an abortion, got pregnant again, had an abortion again. gave up men. Tried women. Missed men. My mother died. I bought a car for $200 and drove to Ft. Lauderdale to bury her. And after we'd sung some hymns in some wretched Florida funeral home, I went outside and something happened
ANNIE: The smell of cut grass in the warm March air overwhelmed me and I heard a noise tok, tok, tok and some men shouting. then tok, tok, tok.
ANNIE: I crossed the street it was the New York Yankees spring training field tok, tok, tok, was the sound of a ball hitting a bat and I sat in the warm bleachers to think about my mother. And I saw him.
CRASH: Thurman Munson. He was covered with dirt and he was fighting with everybody it was And he called the ump a cocksucker and got thrown out of the game even though it was an exhibition! So I stayed in the bleachers all spring and gradually came to understand what's so great about What's so great about baseball?
ANNIE: Thurman Munson. He was covered with dirt and he was fighting with everybody it was And he called the ump a cocksucker and got thrown out of the game even though it was an exhibition! So I stayed in the bleachers all spring and gradually came to understand what's so great about What's so great about baseball?
CRASH: What's so great about baseball?
ANNIE: If you know where home plate is, then you know where 1st base is, and 2nd, and everything else 'cause they're always in the same place in relation to home. Don't you see? If you know where home plate is, then you know where everything else in the universe is! I don't know if I'd go that far.
CRASH: I don't know if I'd go that far.
ANNIE: It's true, It's true! Least it used to be true. It ain't possible that baseball's not enough anymore, is it, Crash?
CRASH: It's possible.
ANNIE: Are you gonna be waking up next to 20 year old ballplayers when you're
CRASH: Are you gonna be waking up next to 20 year old ballplayers when you're
ANNIE: Well. I used to think that wasn't the worst thing in the world to look forward to. Lately I'm not so sure.
CRASH: Why not?
ANNIE: ( angrily ) Whatta you mean "why not"? Are you gonna play forever?!
MILLIE: Annie, Annie! There she is we've been looking all over for ya. Hi
MILLIE: Well tell 'em, honey.
JIMMY: ( nervously ) We're getting married.
ANNIE: Omigawd, honey, I'm so happy for He's a virgin.
MILLIE: He's a virgin.
JIMMY: Well, yeah. I guess that probably seems pretty corny to people like you.
ANNIE: Oh Jimmy, honey, I think it sounds Annie, will you be the bride's maid?
MILLIE: Annie, will you be the bride's maid?
SKIP: Nuke's overthrowing tonight, he don't look loose. Anything bothering him?
LARRY: He said his chakras were jammed and he was breathing out of the wrong
SKIP: ( spitting tobacco )
CRASH: What's wrong?
NUKE: I'm nervous my old man's here.
CRASH: Hey, he's just your father, man he's as full of shit as anybody.
DEKE: What the hell's going on?
TOMMY: You breathing through the wrong fucking nostril again?
DEKE: Hey, you guys hear Jimmy and Millie are engaged?! Wait'll I tell him she's gone down on half the Carolina Anybody says anything bad about Millie, I'll break his neck.
CRASH: ( threatening ) Anybody says anything bad about Millie, I'll break his neck.
NUKE: Hey, guys, I got a game to pitch.
JOSE: Don't throw anything to me my girlfriend put a curse on my glove.
NUKE: I'll take the curse off the son of a Then you got to cut the head off a live rooster.
JOSE: Then you got to cut the head off a live rooster.
NUKE: MICKEY JOINS THE CROWD from third base.
MICKEY: Don't worry, man, this umpire's a God damn racist.
SKIP: What the hell's going on out there?
LARRY: It's a damn convention.
SKIP: Check it out.
LARRY: What the hell's going on out here?
CRASH: Nuke's scared cause his nostrils are jammed and his old man's here, we need a live rooster to take the curse off Jose's glove, and nobody knows what to get Jimmy and Millie for their wedding present there's a whole lotta shit we're trying to deal with
LARRY: Oh. I thought there was a problem.
MILLIE: You should be at the game.
ANNIE: No, no I'm fine. Millie, how much time did you and Jimmy spend together before he proposed?
MILLIE: Five hours. We both just know. Do you think I deserve to wear white?
ANNIE: We all deserve to wear white.
CRASH: I got him on the knee!
UMPIRE: You missed him!
CRASH: God damn It, Jack, he still ain't touched the plate.
UMPIRE: Don't bump me.
CRASH: It was a cocksucking call!
UMPIRE: Did you call me a cocksucker?
CRASH: No! I said It was a cock-sucking call and you can't run me for that!
UMPIRE: You missed the tag!
CRASH: You spit on me!
UMPIRE: I didn't spit on you!
CRASH: You're in the wrong business, Jack you're Sears-Roebuck material!
UMPIRE: You're close, Crash, you want me to run you? I'll run you!
CRASH: You want me to call you a cocksucker?!
UMPIRE: Try it! Go ahead. Call me a Beg me!
CRASH: Beg me!
UMPIRE: Call me a cocksucker and you're outta Beg me again!
CRASH: Beg me again!
UMPIRE: Call me a cocksucker and you're outta You're a cocksucker!
CRASH: You're a cocksucker!
UMPIRE: You're outta here!
MILLIE: Crash musta called the guy a God, he's so romantic.
ANNIE: God, he's so romantic.
ANNIE: When Crash got throwed out, the game got out of hand. .Jose made three errors with his cursed mitt.
ANNIE: Nuke never quite got in the groove though he didn't pitch bad.
ANNIE: .and the winning streak came to an end with a 3-2 loss. The good news was that a man was about to come calling. the bad news was it was the wrong guy.
NUKE'S VOICE: Annie! You gotta be in there I can hear that crazy Mexican singer!
NUKE: We lost.
ANNIE: It's okay.
NUKE: I'd like you to meet my father.
ANNIE: ( surprised ) Oh won't YOU come in?
NUKE'S FATHER: Ebby's told me a lot about you.
ANNIE: Uh oh. Can I offer you some coffee?
NUKE'S FATHER: Yeah. Ebby tells me you're a very spiritual woman. He tells me you've taught him a lot about discipline and self-control.
ANNIE: He's a good student.
NUKE'S FATHER: We were worried that Ebby might get involved with the wrong crowd in professional baseball we're so pleased, he met a Christian woman.
ANNIE: Praise the Lord, eh?
ANNIE: Oh my I better fix that. Ebby will you help me? I'm no good with mechanical things
NUKE: I couldn't dump my old man but maybe later I can sneak away from him.
ANNIE: You don't have to.
NUKE: I'm starting to understand what you're teaching me. I mean the panties and the nostrils and all that shit. I mean I'm getting it
ANNIE: So am I. Nuke, honey, we need to
NUKE: Aw hell, let's have a quickie right
ANNIE: but you're father's in there!
NUKE: Crash says I gotta quit worrying about him c'mon, honey, we got a lotta catching up to do
ANNIE: Nuke we do need to talk!
ANNIE: ( on phone ) Hello? Skip? Yeah, as a matter of fact, he is here.
ANNIE: It's Skip, for you.
NUKE: I'm going to the Show. They're sending me up to finish out the season with the Big Club. I'm going to the Show!
NUKE'S FATHER: Let's have a quick word of prayer, right here, to thank the Lord for all this
ANNIE: Oh let's not.
NUKE: I gotta leave first thing in the That's great!
ANNIE: That's great!
NUKE: How can I possibly thank you?
ANNIE: Just pitch well and do good.
NUKE: I will, I will C'mon, Dad, I'll dump you off. I gotta find Crash.
NUKE'S FATHER: God bless you.
ANNIE: ( to herself ) She will, Mr. LaLoosh, she will.
TONY: Crash ain't there. He never gets back till four or five
NUKE: Where does he go?
TONY: Well, I'd rather not say.
NUKE: They called me up to the Show and I wanta tell Crash goodbye.
TONY: Goddamn, that's great! Jesus! Listen, Crash don't like anybody to know it but Most nights he goes down to, you know, down to Niggertown. To Sandy's. the whorehouse.
NUKE: He goes to a whorehouse every night?
TONY: Don't tell him I told you he'd break my neck.
BLACK CABBIE: That's Sandy's. Keep your extra cash In your shoes.
SANDY: What'you want, kid?
NUKE: I'm looking for somebody.
SANDY: Who ain't?
NUKE: Looking for Crash Davis.
SANDY: Ain't here.
NUKE: I'm Nuke LaLoosh. With the Bulls.
SANDY: ( studying him ) Your breaking ball's getting better but ya need a change up.
CRASH: ( singing and playing ) But when she does get weary Try a little tenderness.
CRASH: ( singing ) You know she's waiting, just anticipating, the things that she'll never possess. ( beat ) While she's there waiting Try a little tenderness.
NUKE: Crash. I'm going to the Show.
NUKE: Club's expanding its roster to finish the season
CRASH: Shut up. I'm playing. Oh you won't regret it, young girls don't forget it, lost in their own But it's all so easy Just try a little tenderness.
NUKE: I'm going to the Show.
CRASH: Then go.
NUKE: I'm trying to thank you.
CRASH: Let go of me!
SANDY: He makin' trouble for you, Mr. Davis?
CRASH: No, no, Sandy, put it down. Nuke, you know Sandy Grimes? Hit .367 at Louisville in 155.
SANDY: I hit .371.
CRASH: He hit .371 C'mon, Nuke you and me, let's step outside and settle Settle what?
NUKE: Settle what?
CRASH: I don't wanta fight you, I wanta thank you. Let's have a drink and forget this
NUKE: I don't wanta fight you, I wanta thank you. Let's have a drink and forget this
CRASH: God damn it, you fucking virgin prick step outside.
NUKE: C'mon, we got nothin' to fight about.
CRASH: You fuck!
NUKE: Why am I a fuck?
CRASH: Why are you a fuck? 'Cause you got talent. I got brains. But you got talent! You're God damn left arm is worth a million dollars a year. All my limbs put together are worth 7 cents a pound and that's for science and dog meat.
NUKE: You're a great catcher.
CRASH: Come over here into the light so I can kick your ass.
NUKE: Okay, I'll kick your ass there.
CRASH: Okay, I'll kick your ass there.
CRASH: .God damn. I forgot my fucking shoes. Honey, go get my shoes.
NUKE: I'll take you back to the hotel.
CRASH: ( drunken, mad ) You know what the difference is between hitting .250 and hitting .300? I got it figured out. ( beat ) Twenty-five hits a year in 500 at bats is 50 points. Okay? There's 6 months in a season, that's about 25 weeks you get one extra flare a week just one a gork, a ground ball with eyes, a dying quail just one more dying quail a week and you're in Yankee Stadium!
NUKE: Forget it. You ain't worth thanking
CRASH: Come on, Meat.
CRASH: Nuke. tell me something. Did you hit me with your right or your left?
NUKE: My right.
CRASH: Good. Good. That's terrific.
NUKE: If ya get in a fight with some asshole, never hit his with your pitching hand. Ya might get injured. That's another lesson for ya now quit fucking around and help me up.
CRASH: If ya get in a fight with some asshole, never hit his with your pitching hand. Ya might get injured. That's another lesson for ya now quit fucking around and help me up.
NUKE: Ya look like shit.
CRASH: Sorry about last night.
NUKE: Forget it.
CRASH: I have been known, on occasion, to howl at the moon. D'you understand You will. Look, Nuke these Big League hitters are gonna light you up like a pin ball machine for awhile don't worry about it. Be cocky and arrogant even when you're getting beat. That's the secret. You gotta play this game with fear and arrogance.
NUKE: You will. Look, Nuke these Big League hitters are gonna light you up like a pin ball machine for awhile don't worry about it. Be cocky and arrogant even when you're getting beat. That's the secret. You gotta play this game with fear and arrogance.
CRASH: You will. Look, Nuke these Big League hitters are gonna light you up like a pin ball machine for awhile don't worry about it. Be cocky and arrogant even when you're getting beat. That's the secret. You gotta play this game with fear and arrogance.
NUKE: Fear and ignorance.
CRASH: ( raging ) No. Fear and arrogance, you, hayseed, not ignorance!
NUKE: ( smiles calmly ) I know. I just like to see you get all worked up.
NUKE: ( knows it's not true ) Well, I got Annie all warmed up for ( knows it is true ) She's just waiting for you to show up, y'know.
CRASH: I don't need a crazy woman in my Maybe you do. Y'know I'm starting to like this game baseball's a helluva good way to make a living.
NUKE: Maybe you do. Y'know I'm starting to like this game baseball's a helluva good way to make a living.
CRASH: It's the best, Nuke. the absolute fucking best.
NUKE: Yeah, thanks for everything.
CRASH: ( Nuke stops ) Good luck.
NUKE: You too. Meat.
ANNIE: Well I guess this is it.
NUKE: ( smiles ) I won't be needing these anymore.
ANNIE: Neither will I.
NUKE: I think I'm ready for the Show.
ANNIE: Ebby Calvin Nuke LaLoosh don't think too much.
NUKE: Don't worry.
NUKE: I gotta go now, Dad.
FATHER: I was thinking I could fly up and spend a week in the Big Leagues with you help you get comfortable.
NUKE: No. If I screw up, I wanta do it alone. I'll call.
FATHER: We'll be praying for you.
NUKE: Dad if my curveball is hanging, God ain't gonna help me.
FATHER: We'll pray anyway.
NUKE: ( kindly ) If it makes you and mom feel better, go for it. I gotta run
JIMMY: I wanta thank everybody and the Lord for the victory, it's a wonderful way to celebrate my marriage and I guess we're all back on a winning streak, he? A few raucous "Fuckin A's" from the team.
TONY: Hey, Jimmy we chipped in and kind got a little gift for ya of a special wedding cake from the Durham Bulls.
CLUBHOUSE BOY: Hey, Crash Skip wants to see ya.
CRASH: Yeah, Skip, you wanted to see me?
SKIP: Crash, shut the door.
SKIP: ( heartfelt ) This is the toughest job a manager
SKIP: The organization wants to make a change. now that Nuke's gone they wanta bring up some young catcher.
LARRY: Some kid hittin' .300 in Lynchburg. probably a bust.
SKIP: I put in a word for you with the organization told 'em I thought you'd make a fine minor league manager someday. Might be an opening at Salem next year
SKIP: Helluva year, Crash you know how it is.
CRASH: I got released.
ANNIE: I heard already.
ANNIE: Oh my.
ANNIE: .so you see in a former lifetime I'm sure that I was Alexandria, the Czarette of Russia? What do you think?
CRASH: How come in former lifetimes, everybody was someone famous? How come nobody ever says they were Joe Schmo?
ANNIE: It doesn't work like that. God, you're gorgeous. Want to dance?
ANNIE: .mouth, tongue, lips, teeth, roof of the mouth, jaws, and the jaw
CRASH: .wrist and wrist joints, hand, palm, knuckles, thumb, fore-finger, finger-joints, finger-nail.
NUKE: ( like a big leaguer ) Y'know, I'm just happy to be here and hope I can help the ballclub. I just want to give it my best shot and good Lord willing, things'll work out. gotta play 'em one day at a time, Y'know.
CRASH: ( at the plate ) C'mon, Meat, throw me that weak ass shit c'mon, bring the heat, bring it, bring it.
CATCHER: Get your ass in gear.
ANNIE: Oh my.
ANNIE: What happened?
CRASH: I quit. Hit my dinger and hung 'em
ANNIE: I'm quitting too. Boys, not baseball.
CRASH: There might be an opening for a manager at Salem next spring.
ANNIE: Salem, Massachusetts? Where all the witches were?
CRASH: Yeah. you a witch?
ANNIE: Not yet. It takes years of practice.
CRASH: You think I could make it to the Show as a manager?
ANNIE: You'd be great, just great. 'Cause you understand non-linear thinking even though it seems like baseball is a linear game 'cause of the lines and the box scores an' all but the fact is that there's a spacious-"non-time kind of time" to it.
CRASH: ( interrupting ) I got a lotta time to hear your theories and I wanta hear every damn one of 'em. but right now I'm tired and I don't wanta think about baseball and I don't wanta think about Quantum Physics. I don't wanta think about ( beat ) I just wanta be.
ANNIE: I got a lotta time to hear your theories and I wanta hear every damn one of 'em. but right now I'm tired and I don't wanta think about baseball and I don't wanta think about Quantum Physics. I don't wanta think about I just wanta be.
CRASH: I got a lotta time to hear your theories and I wanta hear every damn one of 'em. but right now I'm tired and I don't wanta think about baseball and I don't wanta think about Quantum Physics. I don't wanta think about I just wanta be.
ANNIE: I can do that, too.
ANNIE: Walt Whitman once said "I see great things in baseball. It's our game the American game He said "it will repair our losses and be a blessing to us". You could look it up..
THE END: Writers : Ron Shelton
