BURIED: Written by Chris Sparling
PAUL: What.? What is this? His words become almost unintelligible as he flails about, though fear is understood in his every utterance. He screams aloud, but his voice is captured by the coffin Oh my God! Help me!! Help me!! He kicks and slams his hands against the top and sides of the coffin, all to no avail. His violent movements cause small grains of sand to trickle in through the space between the sides and top of the coffin, as well as a small gap that exists between one of the coffin's broken wooden planks. Sweat cascades down the side of his neck, dripping from his dampened brow. The heat inside the extremely close confines of the coffin is stifling.
PAUL: Oh my God! Help me!! Help me!! He kicks and slams his hands against the top and sides of the coffin, all to no avail. His violent movements cause small grains of sand to trickle in through the space between the sides and top of the coffin, as well as a small gap that exists between one of the coffin's broken wooden planks. Sweat cascades down the side of his neck, dripping from his dampened brow. The heat inside the extremely close confines of the coffin is stifling.
PAUL: No! Wait! Paul accidentally bangs the cap of the Zippo against the coffin wall, putting out the flame. She quickly returns.
PAUL: FEMALE 911 OPERATOR
PAUL: I'm buried. You have to help me. You have to help me, I can't I'm buried in a coffin. Please help me! Send someone to find Sir.slow down. What is your Paul. Paul Conroy.
SIR: I'm buried in a coffin. Please help me! Send someone to find Sir.slow down. What is your Paul. Paul Conroy.
PAUL: I'm buried in a coffin. Please help me! Send someone to find Sir.slow down. What is your Paul. Paul Conroy.
PAUL: Paul. Paul Conroy.
PAUL: I don't know. I'm in a coffin. I don't know where. I'm scared. Please help me.
PAUL: Yeah, it's, like, one of those old, wooden ones.
PAUL: No. I don't know. No.
PAUL: FEMALE 911 OPERATOR
PAUL: A cell phone. There was an old cell phone in the coffin.
PAUL: Yes. No. It's not mine, but yes, I'm calling from a cell phone.
PAUL: I didn't climb in.
PAUL: I was put here.
PAUL: Yes. Please send help.
PAUL: I think so. It's.it's hot in here. I can't breathe.
PAUL: I told you, I don't know. Somewhere in Iraq.
PAUL: Yes. I'm a truck driver, an American. I work for CRT.
PAUL: No. Please, please listen to me. I'm a truck driver. I work for CRT. I'm a civilian contractor working in Iraq. We were attacked in Baqubah, they.they.
PAUL: All of the other drivers.
PAUL: Yes. Please, you have to help me. They gave me a safety number to call, but I had it stored in my wallet and
PAUL: FEMALE 911 OPERATOR
PAUL: Sheriff's Department? No.you don't underst.
PAUL: Come on, come on. Pick up. After sitting through the agony of a few more rings, Paul is met with the answering machine. The voice of his young son, SHANE, is heard on the answering machine greeting.
SHANE: Thanks for calling the Conroy's. We're not home right now. Please leave a message at the beep. At the sound of the Beep, Paul leaves a frenzied, rambling Linda, honey, it's me. Listen, I need you to contact the National Guard right away. Or the Pentagon. Tell them we were attacked in the Diyala Provence, in Baqubah.
PAUL: Linda, honey, it's me. Listen, I need you to contact the National Guard right away. Or the Pentagon. Tell them we were attacked in the Diyala Provence, in Baqubah.
LINDA: Hi, this is Linda. Please leave a message. Thanks and have a great The Beep sounds and Paul immediately tears into his voice Linda, it's Paul. I need you to call me right away. This is an absolute emergency. Call the number that comes up on your phone. Call me at that number. If I don't answer, call the Pentagon or the F.B.I. I don't know what the hell is going on, but I'm buried in a Hearing himself say those last words gives him pause. The gravity of the situation fully takes hold.
PAUL: Linda, it's Paul. I need you to call me right away. This is an absolute emergency. Call the number that comes up on your phone. Call me at that number. If I don't answer, call the Pentagon or the F.B.I. I don't know what the hell is going on, but I'm buried in a Hearing himself say those last words gives him pause. The gravity of the situation fully takes hold.
411 OPERATOR: What city and state, please?
PAUL: Um.I don't know. The F.B.I., wherever they are. Paul reaches for his button-down shirt. Fishes for pens stashed in his lapel pocket, while keeping the phone pressed to his ear with his shoulder.
411 OPERATOR: Do you have a specific city you'd like to be connected to, sir?
PAUL: I don't care, any city. Just connect me to the F.B.I.
411 OPERATOR: Sir, I have F.B.I. field offices listed in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, New Haven, Los Angeles, Chicago, Denver Paul cannot bear to listen any further to this list that seemingly never ends.
PAUL: Anywhere! Any city, just connect me, please!
411 OPERATOR: I'm sorry, sir, but I'm not allowed to do that.
PAUL: Fine, um.Chicago. Okay?
411 OPERATOR: Please hold for your number. Paul is transferred to an AUTOMATED MESSAGE.
AUTOMATED MESSAGE: The number you requested, 312-421-
PAUL: Hello? Is this the F.B.I.?
PAUL: I'm calling from Iraq. I'm buried in the desert somewhere. I need you to help me
PAUL: Now. I'm there now. I'm a truck driver for CRT. I've been here for nine months.
PAUL: Paul Conroy.
DOWN ): Paul Conroy. ( back on the phone ) Okay, Paul, explain to me what's going on.
PAUL: Alright. Me and a convoy of other drivers were delivering kitchen parts to a community center. As we got closer, a bunch of kids started throwing rocks at our trucks. Then an IED went off up ahead and blew up one of the other trucks. These guys came out from behind the houses with guns and started shooting everybody right there on the street.
PAUL: I don't know! ( after a breath, calmer ) I don't know. I was way in the back of the convoy. I must have got hit in the head with one of the rocks and got knocked out. That's the last thing I remember. But now I just woke up, and I was tied up and buried in a coffin.
PAUL: I guess whoever ambushed us. Special Agent Harris sounds slightly skeptical of Paul's SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS A bunch of kids?
PAUL: No, you're not listening. The kids threw the rocks at us, but then some Iraqi guys maybe insurgents, I don't fucking know popped out of nowhere and started shooting at us.
PAUL: They didn't, I don't know! But they shot them!
PAUL: I'm shouting because you're not listening! I need you to help me! SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS Paul takes a moment to center himself.
PAUL: Can you trace my call? GPS or SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS Why is it that they didn't shoot I have no idea. They didn't, that's all I know.
PAUL: I have no idea. They didn't, that's all I know.
PAUL: Why? Who cares? I'm buried in the middle of the fucking desert! Who cares what my social security number is?! I'm an American citizen. Just send someone to find SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS Do you know where you're The cell phone starts breaking up.
PAUL: Hello? What? I can't hear you.
PAUL: Hello?! Hello?! Paul checks the phone's display, where he sees that the call has been lost.
CRT OPERATOR: Thank you for calling Crestin, Roland and Thomas. How may I direct your call?
PAUL: Somebody, I need to talk to someone right away. It's an emergency.
CRT OPERATOR: Who is this, please?
PAUL: Paul Conroy. I'm a driver for you guys. I'm calling from Iraq. My convoy was attacked.
CRT OPERATOR: Sir, if this is a crisis situation you need to contact the Safety Number your were provided.
PAUL: I know, I know, but I don't have it. They took it.
CRT OPERATOR: Who took it, sir?
PAUL: The Iraqis, I think. I don't remember, I blacked out.
CRT OPERATOR: I'm going to put you through to Alan Davenport.
PAUL: Davenport? Who's that?
CRT OPERATOR: Director of Personnel. Please Personnel? No, I need to talk Paul is placed on hold. Synthesized soft rock plays in the background of the phone, maddening Paul further. Over the music, a CRT SPOKESMAN is heard, speaking a recorded testimonial during the on-hold message.
PAUL: Personnel? No, I need to talk Paul is placed on hold. Synthesized soft rock plays in the background of the phone, maddening Paul further. Over the music, a CRT SPOKESMAN is heard, speaking a recorded testimonial during the on-hold message.
CRT SPOKESMAN: At CRT, we work with our clients to provide effective and sustainable solutions to the challenges they face in our fast-growing, global economy. As the premiere. The message is interrupted by ALAN DAVENPORT's outgoing voice You've reached Alan Davenport, personnel director at Crestin, Roland and Thomas. Please leave your name and number at the tone and I will return your call as soon as possible. The BEEP sounds. Paul is confused as to why he was patched through to someone in human resources, but leaves a message This is Paul Conroy, I'm from Hastings, Michigan. I'm a driver for CRT, and my convoy was ambushed.by insurgents or terrorists. I don't know. I don't know who it was. I'm stuck in the ground, buried in a coffin and I need help. Please send help. I'm begging you. I think I'm in Baqubah in the Diyala Provence. Please send help right away. I can't breathe in here. I can't.please. I'm begging you. I don't know who else to call.
ALAN DAVENPORT: You've reached Alan Davenport, personnel director at Crestin, Roland and Thomas. Please leave your name and number at the tone and I will return your call as soon as possible. The BEEP sounds. Paul is confused as to why he was patched through to someone in human resources, but leaves a message This is Paul Conroy, I'm from Hastings, Michigan. I'm a driver for CRT, and my convoy was ambushed.by insurgents or terrorists. I don't know. I don't know who it was. I'm stuck in the ground, buried in a coffin and I need help. Please send help. I'm begging you. I think I'm in Baqubah in the Diyala Provence. Please send help right away. I can't breathe in here. I can't.please. I'm begging you. I don't know who else to call.
PAUL: This is Paul Conroy, I'm from Hastings, Michigan. I'm a driver for CRT, and my convoy was ambushed.by insurgents or terrorists. I don't know. I don't know who it was. I'm stuck in the ground, buried in a coffin and I need help. Please send help. I'm begging you. I think I'm in Baqubah in the Diyala Provence. Please send help right away. I can't breathe in here. I can't.please. I'm begging you. I don't know who else to call.
PAUL: Hello? Hello? Is anyone there? After a beat, Paul hears breathing on the other end of the phone. He also hears a discordance of background sound; the din of a room filled with Arabic-speaking men.
JABIR: Breathe no breathe, American? Ah? Breathe no breathe?
PAUL: What? I don't know what you're saying. Who is this?
JABIR: American can breathe no breathe?
PAUL: No, I can't breathe. Please get me out of here.
JABIR: Get out?
PAUL: Yes, please get me out. Help me.
JABIR: No, no I'm not a soldier. I'm a truck driver. That's it. I'm not a soldier. I'm a contractor.
PAUL: No, no I'm not a soldier. I'm a truck driver. That's it. I'm not a soldier. I'm a contractor.
JABIR: Yes, that's right. A contractor. Not a soldier.
PAUL: Yes, that's right. A contractor. Not a soldier.
JABIR: No, not for Blackwater. I'm not a security contractor. Truck driver, I'm a truck driver. That's all.
PAUL: No, not for Blackwater. I'm not a security contractor. Truck driver, I'm a truck driver. That's all.
JABIR: You are American.
PAUL: Then you are soldier. Despair falls upon Paul. It becomes clear that Jabir is responsible for all of this. As such, Paul crosses out the word "HELP?" Closes the lid of the Zippo, leaving only the cell phone display screen to illuminate his face.
JABIR: Then you are soldier. Despair falls upon Paul. It becomes clear that Jabir is responsible for all of this. As such, Paul crosses out the word "HELP?" Closes the lid of the Zippo, leaving only the cell phone display screen to illuminate his face.
PAUL: No, I'm not. I'm here unarmed. But, you still shot at us.
JABIR: In head and in throat, so you tell no more lies.
PAUL: I'm not lying! We were all Drive what?
JABIR: Drive what?
PAUL: Trucks. The big trucks you see driving around with the supplies? That's us. That's me. We're not Five million money.
JABIR: Five million money.
PAUL: Five million money tonight by nine PM or you stay. Buried like dog.
JABIR: Five million money tonight by nine PM or you stay. Buried like dog.
PAUL: Five million dollars? From who?
JABIR: Your family.
PAUL: My family doesn't have five million dollars. If they did, I wouldn't be here.
JABIR: From Embassy.
PAUL: I don't know, yes, the Embassy will pay you. If you let me go, they'll pay you the money. Silence on the other end of the phone.
JABIR: ( after a long beat ) Nine PM, five million money. Jabir hangs up the phone, forcing Paul to instantly come to grips with the fact that he is being held hostage. He lays back in the coffin, shell-shocked. Physically spent, the cell phone falls from his hands and onto the floor. The display screen casts a dim light throughout the coffin.
PAUL: ( TO HIMSELF )
PAUL: Hastings, Michigan. I'm looking for Donna Mitchell.
PAUL: Ardmore Avenue.I think. Yeah. Shit, I don't know. Just give me that one.
PAUL: Yes, Ardmore Avenue.
AUTOMATED MESSAGE: The number you requested, 269-948- 1998 can automatically be dialed for a charge of twenty-five cents by pressing the number one. Paul writes Donna's number and name on the top of the coffin and then presses the number one. He is connected. Her phone rings and rings. Paul's frustration is evident.
PAUL: Come on! Where the hell is The phone rings some more. Paul checks the battery life still at one and a half bars. DONNA eventually answers.
DONNA: Hearing her voice, Paul hurriedly places the phone to his
PAUL: Donna, it's Paul.
DONNA: Hey, how's it going?
PAUL: Where's Linda? She's not answering her phone. I need to talk to her, I've been taken hostage by. Donna interrupts. We realize, as does Paul, that her voice was actually coming from her answering machine.
DONNA: ( OVERLAPPING )
PAUL: Donna, I need to talk to Linda. It's an absolute emergency. Have her call me. Use star sixty-nine and find out the number I'm calling from and have her call me. Donna picks up the phone.
DONNA: What do you want?
PAUL: What do you want?
DONNA: What do you want?
PAUL: I need to talk to Linda. Where is I don't know. I haven't talked to her all day. Call her cell phone.
DONNA: I don't know. I haven't talked to her all day. Call her cell phone.
PAUL: Are you near a computer or Uh.yeah. Why?
DONNA: Uh.yeah. Why?
PAUL: Turn it on.
DONNA: It is on.
PAUL: Look up the number for the State Department for me.
DONNA: I was just heading out to the supermarket. I really don't have
TIME: Donna, please, please, please just get me the number.
PAUL: Donna, please, please, please just get me the number.
DONNA: Is everything alright?
PAUL: No! Everything is not alright! So, please, just look up the Don't fucking yell at me, Paul.
DONNA: Don't fucking yell at me, Paul.
PAUL: I'm not yelling!
DONNA: Yes you are. Just like you did last year at the cookout. I'm not going to tolerate
PAUL: ( EXPLODING )
DONNA: It takes every ounce of Paul's being to keep himself from going off the deep end. He takes a beat to compose himself and then finally offers a very delicate and deliberate
PAUL: Donna, I'm very sorry I yelled. But, I'm only going to ask you once more to get me this number. If you don't get me this number, I'm going to die.
DONNA: I don't have time to explain. Please.the number.
PAUL: I don't have time to explain. Please.the number.
DONNA: ( BEAT )
PAUL: Paul writes the number on the top of the coffin, beneath the man others. He writes the initials "S.D." next to it.
DONNA: Paul writes the number on the top of the coffin, beneath the man others. He writes the initials "S.D." next to it.
DONNA: What the hell's going Paul hangs up on Donna mid-sentence. He dials the number the State Department right away. A STATE DEPARTMENT REP answers after a few rings.
PAUL: I'm an American citizen, working in Iraq. I've been taken hostage. I need to speak to someone right STATE DEPARTMENT REP Where are you calling from, sir?
PAUL: From Iraq. I'm a truck driver for CRT Crestin, Roland and Thomas. We were attacked and now I'm being held for ransom.
PAUL: No. I'm buried somewhere.
PAUL: Yeah, in a coffin, a wooden box. It's an old coffin, I think.
PAUL: I don't have the number.
PAUL: I was given a number to call, a safety number. But the people took STATE DEPARTMENT REP The people holding you hostage?
PAUL: STATE DEPARTMENT REP I don't know.hold on. Let me connect you.hold on.
PAUL: No. Wait. Paul is placed on hold. As he waits, his eyes wander around the coffin. He looks at the numbers he has written. After a moment, REBECCA BROWNING, a State Department official, picks up the phone.
REBECCA: Rebecca Browning.
PAUL: Yes, hello. I was just informed of your situation.
REBECCA: Yes, hello. I was just informed of your situation.
PAUL: Yeah, my situation. I'm running out of time and you people keep putting me on hold. What the hell is wrong with you?
REBECCA: I'm sorry.
PAUL: Don't be sorry. Just help me.
REBECCA: I just have a few questions for you, Mister Conroy.
PAUL: You've got to be kidding me.
REBECCA: It's important that I get this information. It will make a rescue
ATTEMPT: Wait, wait, wait.how did you know my name?
PAUL: Wait, wait, wait.how did you know my name?
REBECCA: I'm sorry?
PAUL: I never gave you my name. I don't think I gave it to the other guy, Rebecca is silent on the other end of the phone.
REBECCA: ( after a beat ) We received a call from a representative at CRT. You left him a message?
PAUL: He contacted us right away.
REBECCA: He contacted us right away.
PAUL: Well, since you know what the hell is going on, what have you done to get me out of here?
REBECCA: There's little we can do from So, that's it? I'm just supposed to rot in here because there's little you can do?
PAUL: So, that's it? I'm just supposed to rot in here because there's little you can do?
REBECCA: Then what?
PAUL: Then what?
REBECCA: I need to know where you were when your convoy was ambushed.
PAUL: In the Diyala Provence. In Okay. And has contact been made with the kidnappers?
REBECCA: Okay. And has contact been made with the kidnappers?
PAUL: Yes. The guy told me that he wants five million dollars by nine o'clock tonight.
REBECCA: Or else.?
PAUL: Or else he'll bring me to Sea World. What do you think, lady? Even faced with Paul's sarcasm, Rebecca remains stolid. We'll do everything we can.
REBECCA: We'll do everything we can.
PAUL: So you'll pay them?
REBECCA: ( BEAT )
PAUL: It's the policy of the United States government to not negotiate with terrorists.
REBECCA: It's the policy of the United States government to not negotiate with terrorists.
PAUL: To hell with that! It's easy for you to worry about policy, you're sitting in an air conditioned office somewhere, probably finishing up your sandwich from lunch. You're not the one stuck in a coffin, buried in the God damn I understand your frustration
REBECCA: I understand your frustration
PAUL: Frustration? Lady, I'm going to fucking die in here. Understand Rebecca is silent on the other end of the phone. Paul wonders if she is still there. The idea of being alone again scares him terribly.
REBECCA: I'm here. Momentary relief. After a beat:
PAUL: Well, then say something. Tell me how you're going to get me out of What's the number on the phone you're calling from?
REBECCA: What's the number on the phone you're calling from?
PAUL: I don't know. Did it come up on your end?
REBECCA: No. It's listed as unavailable. Do this take down this number. Paul takes out his pen.
PAUL: Go ahead.
REBECCA: Paul writes the number onto the top of the coffin.
PAUL: Who's that?
REBECCA: Dan Brenner. He's the commander of the Hostage Working Group over in Paul writes "D. BRENNER" next to Dan's phone number.
PAUL: Hostage Working Group?
REBECCA: We formed it in 2004 to deal with situations such as yours. Paul shakes his head in disgust.
PAUL: Situations. I love how you keep calling it that.
REBECCA: Did you write down the number?
PAUL: Good. Hold on, I'll connect you with him now. He should be expecting you.
REBECCA: Good. Hold on, I'll connect you with him now. He should be expecting you.
PAUL: What about the news? I'm going to call them.
REBECCA: No. Do not, I repeat, do not contact the news.
PAUL: It will only complicate things further and threaten your chances of rescue. Paul doesn't buy it.
REBECCA: It will only complicate things further and threaten your chances of rescue. Paul doesn't buy it.
PAUL: That's bullshit. You're just covering your ass.
REBECCA: No, I'm covering yours. Everyone who needs to know about this does.
PAUL: You don't go looking for something if you don't know it's missing.
REBECCA: That's why you need to contact Dan Brenner right away. Paul still contemplates contacting the news, but soon acquiesces to Rebecca's pleas for him not to.
PAUL: I'm transferring you now. Rebecca's gone. Paul waits. Several beeps sound as he's being transferred. Paul hears a faint sound coming from behind him, outside the coffin. While the beeps continue to sound, he lights the Zippo, circumspectly looking behind him. He doesn't see With the Zippo still lit, Paul takes a deep, centering breath, followed by another. A few more long beeps pass before a ring is heard. After two rings, DAN BRENNER answers.
REBECCA: I'm transferring you now. Rebecca's gone. Paul waits. Several beeps sound as he's being transferred. Paul hears a faint sound coming from behind him, outside the coffin. While the beeps continue to sound, he lights the Zippo, circumspectly looking behind him. He doesn't see With the Zippo still lit, Paul takes a deep, centering breath, followed by another. A few more long beeps pass before a ring is heard. After two rings, DAN BRENNER answers.
DAN: Dan Brenner? Dan is quick to figure out who it is that must be calling Is this Paul Conroy?
PAUL: Dan Brenner? Dan is quick to figure out who it is that must be calling Is this Paul Conroy?
DAN: Is this Paul Conroy?
PAUL: ( EXCITED )
DAN: Paul, I was informed of what's going on. I want you to know that we're already working on trying to get you out of there.
PAUL: Oh, thank you, God.
DAN: I was told that we have until 9pm. Is that right?
PAUL: That's what he said.
DAN: Alright. That doesn't give us a whole lot of time. And just so I have this right, the kidnappers buried you in the ground?
PAUL: Yeah, in an old, wooden coffin.
DAN: Okay. My guess is that since you're able to get a cell signal, you're no more than a few feet I don't know. Maybe.
PAUL: I don't know. Maybe.
DAN: What about battery life? How much does the phone have left? Paul looks at the display to find out.
PAUL: Less than half.
DAN: Okay. You have to conserve that battery. Our best bet of finding you is by tracking your cell signal. Is the ringer set on a sound or vibrate?
PAUL: Press and hold down the asterisk key to change it to a ring tone. It will use less power.
DAN: Press and hold down the asterisk key to change it to a ring tone. It will use less power.
PAUL: What about my Zippo?
DAN: You have a lighter?
PAUL: Use it to look around for markings, a logo whatever you can find.
DAN: Use it to look around for markings, a logo whatever you can find.
PAUL: Won't it use up oxygen?
DAN: Not much. Don't worry about that now. Try to find
PAUL: It's really dark in here without I understand, Paul. Try to find anything in there that might indicate where that coffin was You guys have to hurry.
DAN: I understand, Paul. Try to find anything in there that might indicate where that coffin was You guys have to hurry.
PAUL: You guys have to hurry.
DAN: We're working as fast as we can, Do you know if there were any other From your convoy?
PAUL: Do you know if there were any other From your convoy?
DAN: From your convoy?
PAUL: That's still unclear at this point.
DAN: That's still unclear at this point.
PAUL: I just wanted to do right by my family. That's all.
DAN: I don't think any of us did. While on the phone with Brenner, Paul gets another call coming in. He checks the display and reads the number. Matching it against a number he wrote on the top of the coffin, he sees that is Jabir calling.
PAUL: It's him. He's calling.
DAN: The kidnapper?
PAUL: Yeah. What do I do?
DAN: You know his number?
PAUL: Give it to me.
DAN: Give it to me.
PAUL: What about the call?
DAN: Give me the number first. The phone has rung several times. Paul fears that Jabir may hang up.
PAUL: He's going to hang up.
DAN: Take the call.
PAUL: Take the call. Now. Paul complies with Dan's demand and switches to the other Two hour, six minute. Paul looks at his watch. Indeed, he has but two hours and six minutes until the time reaches 9pm.
BUT: Take the call. Now. Paul complies with Dan's demand and switches to the other Two hour, six minute. Paul looks at his watch. Indeed, he has but two hours and six minutes until the time reaches 9pm.
DAN: Take the call. Now. Paul complies with Dan's demand and switches to the other Two hour, six minute. Paul looks at his watch. Indeed, he has but two hours and six minutes until the time reaches 9pm.
PAUL: Two hour, six minute. Paul looks at his watch. Indeed, he has but two hours and six minutes until the time reaches 9pm.
JABIR: Two hour, six minute. Paul looks at his watch. Indeed, he has but two hours and six minutes until the time reaches 9pm.
PAUL: You have to give me more time.
JABIR: You talk to embassy? They give Yes. No. I talked to.someone. Government. They said that they won't pay the money.
PAUL: Yes. No. I talked to.someone. Government. They said that they won't pay the money.
JABIR: No pay?
PAUL: No. They said that they don't negotiate with terrorists.
JABIR: Terrorists? I am terrorist?
PAUL: Yes. You are terrorist, you son of a bitch.
JABIR: You are terrified, so I am What did I ever do to you?
PAUL: What did I ever do to you?
JABIR: Ever do?
PAUL: Yeah. I'm here because it's a job, to make money. That's it.
JABIR: I have job until you come. Now, my family have nothing.
PAUL: That's not my fault! Jabir retorts with a spirited conviction similar to Paul's.
JABIR: Nine, one, one was not my fault, but still you are here! Saddam was not my fault, but still you are I told you, I'm only here to work. To help rebuild.
PAUL: I told you, I'm only here to work. To help rebuild.
JABIR: Rebuild what you destroyed. Paul cannot handle his stress any longer. He begins to crumble under the pressure.
PAUL: Stop! Just please, stop! I'm just a guy. I'm just a truck driver. Okay? I'm nobody that makes decisions about anything. I just want to go home. Silence from the other end of the phone for an extended period of time.
JABIR: You make video, ransom video. This surprisingly comes as good news to Paul.
PAUL: Yes. Please. Get me out of here and I'll make the video.
JABIR: No. You make video now.
PAUL: What.? How?
JABIR: You use video on phone. Paul's hopes are dashed. His sanguine head falls back onto the coffin floor.
PAUL: Where? I don't see
JABIR: Near foot. Read note inside box. Paul repositions his legs as best he can. He can vaguely see the corner of a small metal box, partially sticking out of a broken plank on the bottom of the coffin.
PAUL: The video.if I make it, will you let me go?
JABIR: Only if we get money.
PAUL: Nobody's going to pay five million dollars for me.
JABIR: We take less. One million money.
PAUL: If they pay it, will you let me go?
JABIR: ( after a beat ) One million money. Jabir hangs up, ending the call. Paul sits motionless for a moment, soaking in all that Jabir has just told him. He again looks down toward his feet. He can see the protruding corner of the metal box, but it's positioned in such a way that it will clearly not be easy for him to reach Paul then tries to clasp the box with his feet, but after several unsuccessful attempts, he realizes that a new strategy is necessary.
SHANE: Thanks for calling the Conroy's. We're not home right now. Please leave a message at the beep. Paul's eyes well up with tears. He smiles at the sound of his son's voice. The Beep is heard. Paul hangs up without leaving a message. He looks at the time. It's 7:02pm. Battery life is holding steady at one and a half bars. He remembers something.
PAUL: Paul presses and holds down the shortcut button on the phone that changes the ringer from vibrate to an audible tone. The glow stick begins to slowly fade. Paul dials Dan Brenner. After a few rings, Dan answers.
DAN: Here's his number. Paul presses the green key, bringing up the last numbers dialed and received.
PAUL: Here's his number. Paul presses the green key, bringing up the last numbers dialed and received.
DAN: Hold on. Alright, go ahead.
PAUL: It's 07902-24-921. Dan says something to someone who is in the room with him, and then returns his attention to Paul.
DAN: This is huge. Unless they're using a cloned line, we should be able to find where this is coming from in What about me? Can you track my cell signal?
PAUL: What about me? Can you track my cell signal?
DAN: We're having a lot of trouble with yours. Seems to be an EDS line, probably through one of the Egyptian carriers.
PAUL: What does that mean?
DAN: That.it's not going to be easy.
PAUL: He wants me to make a ransom video.
DAN: No. Hold off for as long as you If it's going to get me out of here, I'm making it.
PAUL: If it's going to get me out of here, I'm making it.
DAN: The last thing we want is for this to end up all over Al Jazeera.
PAUL: Paul becomes angry, again sensing that more emphasis is being placed on containing the situation than rescuing him.
DAN: This can't turn into an international incident.
PAUL: That's all you people care about! But what about me? Don't you care about me?
DAN: We do. That's why we're
PAUL: No you don't! You people don't care about any of us. I've had eight friends killed out here, six of them today. We don't have any guns, any armor. Nothing.
DAN: You're not soldiers.
PAUL: Tell that to the people who put me in this box! Tell that to the people who shot my friends!
DAN: We're doing the best we can.
PAUL: No, you're not. All you people understand are your secret plans and your back room politics.
DAN: I need you to stay focused, Paul.
PAUL: Fuck you. Dan's heard enough.
DAN: Paul, listen to me: finding you is our primary concern. Bottom line. And we're searching just as hard as we would be for a four-star general, so don't literally waste your breath suggesting otherwise. Paul does not respond at first. Dan's retort clearly has an effect on him.
PAUL: Who are they? The people who put me here?
DAN: They're just that people. No different from you and me.
PAUL: I'm no terrorist.
DAN: Neither are they.
PAUL: How do you know that?
DAN: If you were homeless, starving.actually, I take that back. If your family was homeless and starving, what would you do for I wouldn't kill someone.
PAUL: I wouldn't kill someone.
DAN: How can you be sure?
PAUL: ( GETTING FRUSTRATED )
DAN: They're criminals, desperate ones at that. They don't care about anything other than getting the So pay them, then.
PAUL: So pay them, then.
DAN: Trust me, if it was an option, I would do that in a heartbeat.
PAUL: How many others have there been?
DAN: Since I got here? Hundreds. Journalists, contractors, soldiers.hundreds have been taken. It's one of the only functioning businesses out here.
PAUL: How many have you rescued? Dan is reluctant to answer the question.
DAN: ( BEAT )
PAUL: Tell me their names.
DAN: Any of them. Make me know they really do matter to you.
PAUL: Any of them. Make me know they really do matter to you.
DAN: Mark White.
PAUL: Who was Mark White?
DAN: A kid from New Hampshire. Twenty- six years old. Med student. Came over here to help out local What happened to him?
PAUL: What happened to him?
DAN: Insurgents grabbed him.
PAUL: About three weeks ago. Paul writes "MARK WHITE" on the top of the coffin, below the list of phone numbers. He circles the name.
DAN: About three weeks ago. Paul writes "MARK WHITE" on the top of the coffin, below the list of phone numbers. He circles the name.
PAUL: You remember his name.
DAN: I remember all their names.
PAUL: ( afraid to ask ) Did he.? Is he.? The glow stick begins to fade.
DAN: Yeah. Yeah, Paul, he's alive. Hearing this affords Paul some semblance of relief. Paul shakes the glow stick, returning it to its full Where is he?
PAUL: Where is he?
DAN: Home. Probably happy to be back at I want to get out of here.
PAUL: I want to get out of here.
DAN: We found him; we'll find you, too.
PAUL: We already have a solid lead on the number you gave us.
DAN: We already have a solid lead on the number you gave us.
PAUL: You do?
DAN: A unit's on it's way over there This news calms Paul's nerves.
PAUL: That's.that's good.
DAN: What should I do in the meantime?
PAUL: What should I do in the meantime?
DAN: I know it's hard, but try to relax. The more worked up you are, the more air you're going to use.
PAUL: I can't help it. I'm always anxious. I take pills for it.
DAN: Do you have them with you? Paul checks his pants pockets. He removes a small, orange pill bottle.
PAUL: Take them. You need to preserve your oxygen level any way you can.
DAN: Take them. You need to preserve your oxygen level any way you can.
PAUL: Is your Zippo still lit.
DAN: Is your Zippo still lit.
PAUL: Not now.
DAN: I feel nauseous.
PAUL: I feel nauseous.
DAN: You have to calm down.
PAUL: I'm trying.
DAN: And you need to save that battery. We're expecting some intel in about ten minutes. Call me back then.
PAUL: Just hang in there, Paul. The glow stick begins to slowly fade. Paul shakes it, causing it to brighten only momentarily before dimming again.
DAN: Just hang in there, Paul. The glow stick begins to slowly fade. Paul shakes it, causing it to brighten only momentarily before dimming again.
PAUL: Yeah. I'm trying. Dan ends the call. Paul lets out a deep breath, finding it difficult to lay claim to its replacement. He looks at his watch. It's now 7:18pm. The ticking sound of the second hand turning is inordinately loud, due to the extreme silence of the coffin. Just then, the cell phone rings. Checking the number on the display, Paul sees that it is Jabir. Paul answers.
PAUL: Did you make video?
JABIR: Did you make video?
PAUL: Jabir yells something in Arabic to the other Iraqi men we hear in the background. Collectively, they do not sound pleased. Slightly panicked, in fact, though it is difficult to tell for sure.
JABIR: ( TO PAUL )
PAUL: Let me out and I'll make it.
JABIR: No! You make video now. In box.
PAUL: I can't. I can't read the paper.
JABIR: Make video now!
PAUL: I can't. I don't know what you want me to say. I can't read the Jabir is heard speaking with the men we hear arguing in the background. Although they speak in Arabic, it is clear from their tone that they are becoming worried and increasingly Jabir returns his attention back to Paul.
JABIR: You make video now. Jabir ends the call. Paul closes the phone to help conserve battery life. He then reopens the phone and scrolls through the menu options. Everything is written in Arabic. He eventually comes across an icon with a movie camera the video function. He turns it on. Looks at himself though the After a beat, he closes the phone, clearly frustrated and growing more panicked. His breaths grow heavy and rapid, utilizing a great deal of oxygen.
PAUL: I'm never getting out of here. Paul begins to freak out, restlessly squirming inside the coffin and pressing against the sides and top. The glow stick fades out almost completely, offering very little light. Paul shakes it, but with no change to its brightness. Moments later, it dies. Paul tries the flashlight. Click-click. Click-click. Nothing. He bangs it a few times with his hand. The white light turns on, but quickly turns back off. He twists the top, which causes the flashlight to switch bulbs. A red beam emits momentarily. Paul twists the top again and gives the flashlight a few good whacks. It turns on. White light shines dimly on his face. He takes a breath. In efforts to calm himself, he once again removes the orange pill bottle from his pocket. He pours two into his hand. He then removes his small, metal alcohol flask from his back pocket and takes a large swig, swallowing the two pills in the process. Still, Paul's heavy, labored breathing continues. He drops four additional pills into his and swallows them with yet another generous pull from the flask. He sits and waits. Nothing is happening, except that his extremely limited time keeps passing. After a moment, Paul picks up the cell phone. He holds it in front of him, hesitant to make a call. After some consideration, he dials. After a few rings, a NURSING HOME NURSE answers.
PAUL: I was hoping I could speak with Maryanne Conroy, please.
MARYANNE: Mom.it's Paul.
PAUL: Mom.it's Paul.
MARYANNE: It's Paul, Mom. Your son.
PAUL: It's Paul, Mom. Your son.
MARYANNE: My son?
PAUL: It's okay, Mom. How are you?
MARYANNE: I'm fine.
PAUL: That's good.
MARYANNE: Who are you?
PAUL: It's your son, Mom. It's Paulie.
MARYANNE: Yeah. Remember? We lived over on Colfax Street, in the duplex. That's right, Mom.
PAUL: Yeah. Remember? We lived over on Colfax Street, in the duplex. That's right, Mom.
MARYANNE: ( REMEMBERING SLIGHTLY )
PAUL: That's right, Mom.
MARYANNE: Is this Paulie?
PAUL: It is, Mom. It's Paulie. How's everything at the home?
MARYANNE: Very nice. Your father and I have been playing gin rummy every night. It's almost too much for Paul to take. He cries silent tears over a heartbroken smile.
PAUL: Yeah.I don't think Pop's there with you, Mom.
MARYANNE: How are you doing, sweetie?
PAUL: Not very good. This.uh, this may be the last time I talk to you.
MARYANNE: That's nice, honey.
PAUL: Did you get the flowers I sent a few months ago?
MARYANNE: Yeah, I sent.never mind. Listen, I.I'm going to go now. I just wanted to talk to you, you know, just to say bye. I love you, Mom. Maryanne doesn't respond.
PAUL: Yeah, I sent.never mind. Listen, I.I'm going to go now. I just wanted to talk to you, you know, just to say bye. I love you, Mom. Maryanne doesn't respond.
LOVE: Yes, dear. Your father and I have been playing gin rummy every night.
MARYANNE: Yes, dear. Your father and I have been playing gin rummy every night.
PAUL: ( after a beat ) Okay, Mom. Tell Pop I said hi. Paul ends the call and instantly begins crying his heart out. He lays there, sobbing relentlessly. After a long beat, the cell phone rings. Decidedly different than his past reactions to an incoming call, Paul seems hopelessly disinterested. The ring is maddening. He mindlessly presses the shortcut button, resetting the ring to vibrate mode. He eventually picks up the phone, but there is not anyone on the other end. It's then that he sees that it was not a call that came in, but instead was a picture message. Pressing what appears to be the Accept button, the incoming picture begins to download. Several seconds later, the picture downloads and an image appears on the display of Paul's cell phone. It's of a woman bound and gagged, a gun pressed against the side of her Oh no. No, no, no! Paul frantically dials the number to reach Jabir. As soon as the phone connects, Paul begins his desperate plea.
PAUL: Oh no. No, no, no! Paul frantically dials the number to reach Jabir. As soon as the phone connects, Paul begins his desperate plea.
JABIR: Video make?
PAUL: Let her go. Please. Please don't hurt her. The Woman is heard in the background of Jabir's phone, crying muffled words through her muzzled mouth.
JABIR: We shoot her if you no make video.
PAUL: No! No, please no shoot. No shoot You get money. American million.
JABIR: You get money. American million.
PAUL: I will, I promise. Just don't shoot her. She's a mother, she's got two kids.
JABIR: Two kids?
PAUL: Yes. She has two kids.
JABIR: I have five. Now only one. You make video. Now!!
PAUL: No wait!! I give three seconds.
JABIR: No wait!! I give three seconds.
PAUL: I can't read the paper.
JABIR: No. Wait!
PAUL: No. Wait!
JABIR: I don't know what you want me to Okay! Okay, I'll make the video. Just, please, don't shoot. Jabir does not fire his gun. Paul attempts to catch his I need to hang up to make the video. Okay? Is that okay?
PAUL: I don't know what you want me to Okay! Okay, I'll make the video. Just, please, don't shoot. Jabir does not fire his gun. Paul attempts to catch his I need to hang up to make the video. Okay? Is that okay?
JABIR: Okay! Okay, I'll make the video. Just, please, don't shoot. Jabir does not fire his gun. Paul attempts to catch his I need to hang up to make the video. Okay? Is that okay?
PAUL: Okay! Okay, I'll make the video. Just, please, don't shoot. Jabir does not fire his gun. Paul attempts to catch his I need to hang up to make the video. Okay? Is that okay?
JABIR: You have three minute to send Jabir hangs up, ending the call. Paul reaches for the balled-up piece of paper that has the ransom script written on it. It takes some trouble for him to grab it, but he is soon able to. Placing the flashlight next to the paper, Paul is again reminded of the incoherent nature of the script.
PAUL: ( re: the script ) He drops the paper to his side and opens the phone, setting it to the video record function. He places the flashlight close to his face so as to make his image more visible on the small, phone display screen. He presses the record button.
PAUL: ( speaking at the phone ) My name is Paul Conroy. I'm an American citizen from Hastings, Michigan. I'm a civilian truck driver for Crestin, Roland and Thomas. I've been taken hostage somewhere in Iraq.and I need one million dollars by nine o'clock tonight, Baghdad time, or else I'll be left to die in this coffin I'm buried in. I've been told that The flashlight goes out. Paul continues speaking in the darkness. After a few quick smacks, the flashlight turns back on.
PAUL: No, no, no!! Desperately straining every muscle in his body, he extends his arm backward toward the Zippo, hoping to move it away from the spilled alcohol. He still can't reach it, yet he tries with all his might. The phone stops ringing. He has missed the call. He tries blowing at the flame, but his head is too far away and his breath is not strong enough to do much more than cause it to flicker. With the alcohol now mere inches away from the flame, Paul reaches for his shoe. His odd positioning makes reaching his foot almost impossible. He struggles to undo the laces and remove it from his foot. With his face beet red from the force of his strain, Paul finally removes his shoe. The mere inch of leg room this creates allows him to slide his leg out from under him. The trail of alcohol is just about to come into contact with the flame but Paul deftly maneuvers his body just in time to awkwardly kick the Zippo out of the way and close the lid. Paul breaths an enormous sigh of relief as he sits in the dim light of the damaged glow stick. He notices another hole in the coffin. As a precaution, he stuffs it with the cloth that had previously been used to gag him.
PAUL: ( re: the phone screen ) There you are. We see, on the display of the phone, that Paul has found a listing of languages. He scrolls past many "FRANCAIS, DETSCHE, ESPANOL" stopping at "ENGLISH." Presses the button, instantly making all the text on the screen readable. He quickly navigates to the Tools menu. Scrolls down. Locates the number of the cell phone he is using. He scribbles the number onto the top of the coffin. Then a second pass, making it bolder than the others. Paul then dials his wife's cell phone. After only a few rings, he is met by her voice mail.
PAUL: Linda, here's the number for the phone. I just found it out. It's 07902-42-884. You have to use the international calling code first.
PAUL: Son of a. Paul grabs the flashlight. Turns it on. It works for a second, but then goes out. Shaking it only produces intermittent beams of light. He turns the top, switching to the red bulb. It works. The coffin fills with a reddish hue, but then it, too, goes out. Growing incensed, Paul switches back to the white bulb. It He returns his attention to the coffin. His efforts to use the knife as a fulcrum are futile. Still, he tries. Bending the blade well past its design, it nearly breaks off its The flashlight turns off. After a good shaking, it turns back on, emitting white light. With oxygen levels extremely diminished, efforts of this kind are all too much for Paul to take. He has to stop and try to catch his breath. As he endeavors to get his wind back, the cell phone rings. Not a call this time, but instead a video message. It has been sent by Jabir. Paul's trepidation is evident. He fears what the incoming video may show.
WOMAN: My name is Pamela Gorham. I'm a food service worker at F.O.B. Anaconda, employed by Crestin, Roland and Thomas. My captors' requests for ransom have gone unanswered, and The Woman, Pamela, looks off-screen to her right. Someone is fast approaching her. She cowers, protectively holding her bound hands in front of her face as she screams.
PAUL: No! No, no, no!!! Still in the throes of emotional torment, Paul vomits on himself. He doubles over, only to vomit once again. His body, taxed almost to the point of complete physical breakdown, gradually slows and levels itself. With his vomit- smeared face pressed cheek-down onto the bottom of the coffin, Paul stares into nothingness.
DAN: Why the hell did you make that It's all a bunch of lies.
PAUL: It's all a bunch of lies.
DAN: What is? What are you talking All of it.
PAUL: All of it.
DAN: All of what?
PAUL: Nobody gives a shit about any of us. We're nothing to you people.
DAN: We're going to find you.
PAUL: By looking the other way?
DAN: You can't start breaking on me now, Paul. You have to stay strong.
PAUL: You let her die.
DAN: ( after a beat ) No I didn't.
PAUL: They shot her.and you didn't do We didn't even know she had been taken hostage.
DAN: We didn't even know she had been taken hostage.
PAUL: She sent three videos.
DAN: That's what they told her to say.
PAUL: I don't know.
DAN: I don't know.
PAUL: What do you know?
DAN: That your ransom video already has 47,000 hits on YouTube. And all the major networks are playing it, including Al Jazeera. So, now your captors have no choice but to follow through.
PAUL: I found out the number to this I found a way to change the display language. I figured that out, and you didn't. Why?
DAN: I found a way to change the display language. I figured that out, and you didn't. Why?
PAUL: I found a way to change the display language. I figured that out, and you didn't. Why?
DAN: Because I didn't. Just like you and every other person on this planet, there are some things I know and some things I don't.
PAUL: Then how are you ever going to find Their signal was cloned, like we figured. But, we're close. Real What about mine?
DAN: Their signal was cloned, like we figured. But, we're close. Real What about mine?
PAUL: What about mine?
DAN: We're working on that, too.
PAUL: I'm near a Mosque. I could hear the call to prayer over the P.A.
DAN: Good. That means that we're in the right area.
PAUL: You're nearby?
DAN: I spoke with soldiers from the third ID who were escorting your They're alive? After a beat:
PAUL: They're alive? After a beat:
DAN: Not all of them. Both Bradley tanks were hit with IEDs. The rest got caught in small arms fire.
PAUL: We had just left Anaconda, everything seemed okay. We knew that a bunch of our CB radios had been stolen and that the Iraqis were listening in, so we made sure to switch from our usual channels. Pam was riding with Jeff Breer, the convoy commander. She wanted to ride with me like she usually did when she hitched a ride from base, but it seemed safer for her to be with the C.C. As we headed down the road, all these kids came running into the street. Dozens of them. It almost seemed like they were expecting us, except we got there faster than they thought we would. So they run on up in front of me, and I slam on my brakes. The rest of the drivers were already further up ahead, so they kept going. Next thing I know, one of the lead trucks got hit by an IED. I hear Tommy Wilkes on the radio saying, Sandman's hit, Sandman's hit. He's.he's That's when the Iraqis came out of their mud huts from the side of the road and started shooting everybody. I couldn't believe what was happening. It seemed like slow- motion, like I was watching it on TV. People my friends were getting killed, and all I could do is watch. I didn't even notice that the kids were throwing bricks and rocks at me until one split my windshield. Sort of snapped me out of my trance. But then, I guess I got hit in the head with a rock, `cause I blacked out.
DAN: Do you happen to remem.mo. The cell phone service begins to cut out. Suddenly, the coffin begins to vibrate slightly, dropping sand granules through the crack and onto the wood bottom, followed by the faint sound of an explosion. Within seconds, the explosions grow louder and more proximate. The vibration becomes so intense that it violently shakes Paul around the coffin. The sound of jet plane engines are heard coming from above, flying by as the massive explosions continue. Sand seeps in through the crack between the top and sides of the coffin as it shakes. Paul does his best to brace himself, but the bombardment is far too powerful. A large crack forms in the wooden cover to the coffin, spanning almost its entire length. Sand immediately pours through the concave shaped crack, seeping in onto Paul like an hourglass. Fearing that the top of the coffin may collapse under the immense pressure from the sand above, Paul positions himself underneath it and presses with all his might. He grunts and screams loudly, using what little strength he has left to keep the top from caving. The shaking soon stops, though the steady flow of sand In efforts to prevent the sand from filling the coffin any faster, Paul removes the button-down shirt from the hole and stuffs into the area where it enters with the greatest volume. He removes the balled-up cloth from the other hole and does the same with it. Both offer very little help. The flashlight falls to the floor. The red light beam turns off. Darkness. The sound of sand steadily pouring down.
PAUL: ( EXHAUSTED )
PAUL: This can't be happening. We see that Dan Brenner is no longer on the phone, and that the display menu shows an icon of a phone with a line through it No Service Available. Once he feels it is secure enough, Paul slowly moves his body away from the crack. Although slightly caved, it does not show any more signs of possible collapse. Sweat drenches his face. His eyes affixed, in utter disbelief, on the sand as it spills into the coffin, filling in around him inch-by-inch. He grabs the cell phone, only to see that he does not have a No. Come on. Please work. He shakes the cell phone and moves it all around the coffin, hoping that it may somehow help. His efforts are futile. The flashlight goes dead. He hits it, shakes it. It turns back on. The brightness is diminished. Still the sand continues to fall, drowning him deeper and deeper in a pool of granules. Then, very surprisingly, the cell phone rings. Paul answers right away.
PAUL: ( FRANTICALLY )
ALAN DAVENPORT: Is this Paul Conroy?
PAUL: Yes. Yes, this is Paul. Who are Paul, my name's Alan Davenport, I'm the personnel director here at Crestin, Roland and Thomas.
ALAN DAVENPORT: Paul, my name's Alan Davenport, I'm the personnel director here at Crestin, Roland and Thomas.
PAUL: I left you a message.
ALAN DAVENPORT: You did. I also heard from Rebecca Browning over at the State Department. Are you able to speak on the status of your situation?
PAUL: It's worse. There was an explosion or something. The coffin's breaking, there's sand pouring in from everywhere. I only have a half an hour before
ALAN DAVENPORT: Okay, okay. Slow down. You should try to stay calm. Tell me something, Paul, who have you spoken to?
PAUL: The hostage takers, Dan Brenner from the hostage working group
ALAN DAVENPORT: Okay, Paul. I'm with you. How about the media. I know your ransom video leaked, but have you spoken directly to anyone about what's going on? The flashlight goes out. Paul hits it a few times and it turns back on.
PAUL: ALAN DAVENPORT
ALAN DAVENPORT: That's good. It needs to stay that way. It's important that we keep this situation as contained as Paul finds Alan's obvious concern with doing damage control to be infuriating.
PAUL: About three inches to my right, there's a wall. Three inches to my left, there's another wall. And about four inches above my head, there's a roof that's about to collapse and drown me in sand. I think this situation is pretty I know you're upset
ALAN DAVENPORT: I know you're upset
PAUL: Help me! Help me! What are you going to do to help me?!
ALAN DAVENPORT: I know you're upset. And, from what I've been told, steps are being taken to get you out of there. So, hopefully it won't be much longer.
PAUL: Thank God.
ALAN DAVENPORT: Yes, thank God.
PAUL: ALAN DAVENPORT
ALAN DAVENPORT: Please answer the question. The flashlight goes out again.
PAUL: Paul hits it, but it does not catch. He sits in darkness.
ALAN DAVENPORT: Mister Conroy?
PAUL: Yes. Yes!
ALAN DAVENPORT: And do I have your permission to do Why do you need my permission? What is all this?
PAUL: Why do you need my permission? What is all this?
ALAN DAVENPORT: I need you to answer yes or no, Yes. Alright? Yes! Paul hits the flashlight. It turns back on.
PAUL: Yes. Alright? Yes! Paul hits the flashlight. It turns back on.
ALAN DAVENPORT: Thank you. Now, Mister Conroy, when were you hired by CRT?
PAUL: About nine months ago. Around January of 2005. Why are you wasting time with this?
ALAN DAVENPORT: I have your official date of hire as January 4th, 2005. Is that Who cares? This is fucking crazy
PAUL: Who cares? This is fucking crazy
ALAN DAVENPORT: January 4th, 2005. Is that And during your initial training, before being sent to Iraq, were you made aware of the dangers inherent to the position for which you were You mean when I came down there to Dallas and you guys said that all of the trucks would be armored and have bulletproof glass? The flashlight dims. Paul angrily shakes it, returning it to full strength.
PAUL: ALAN DAVENPORT
ALAN DAVENPORT: And during your initial training, before being sent to Iraq, were you made aware of the dangers inherent to the position for which you were You mean when I came down there to Dallas and you guys said that all of the trucks would be armored and have bulletproof glass? The flashlight dims. Paul angrily shakes it, returning it to full strength.
PAUL: You mean when I came down there to Dallas and you guys said that all of the trucks would be armored and have bulletproof glass? The flashlight dims. Paul angrily shakes it, returning it to full strength.
ALAN DAVENPORT: I need you to answer yes or no, The flashlight begins to slowly dim.
PAUL: ( BEAT )
ALAN DAVENPORT: During that time, did you also receive and sign an employment contract with CRT, which thoroughly explained company policy as it pertained to your specific terms of Yeah, I signed a bunch of things.
PAUL: Yeah, I signed a bunch of things.
ALAN DAVENPORT: Yes or no.
PAUL: Yes. I signed the contract. Yes!
ALAN DAVENPORT: It's our understanding that you were taken hostage in Iraq two hours ago, is that also correct?
PAUL: Yes. That's completely correct. What is the point of all this? Alan breaks from the H.R. handbook script, though his tone remains just as matter-of-fact. The flashlight continues its steady, slow dim.
ALAN DAVENPORT: Our legal department requires that we obtain a sworn affidavit from employees, confirming that they understand the reasons for their forced separation from the company. As of this morning, your employment with CRT was officially terminated.
PAUL: Wait, wait, wait The flashlight dims even more.
ALAN DAVENPORT: It was brought to our attention that you were engaging in relations with a fellow CRT employee Pamela Gorham.
PAUL: No. Wait
ALAN DAVENPORT: Stipulated in your contract was a fraternization clause, in which it was stated quite clearly that any relationship, be it romantic or sexual in nature, deemed inappropriate by CRT senior officials is grounds for immediate We.we were just friends.
PAUL: We.we were just friends.
ALAN DAVENPORT: Our records indicate differently.
PAUL: This is bullshit.
ALAN DAVENPORT: We're also legally required to inform you that because you were technically no longer under the employ of CRT at the time of your abduction, we cannot be held accountable for any injury that may befall upon you after your official date and time of termination. Therefore, in your case, that includes this incident or any consequences that may result from Paul sees where Alan is going with this. He's thunderstruck.
PAUL: What about my insurance money? My family will need that money.
ALAN DAVENPORT: Given that you were alive up until the time of your termination
PAUL: You son of a bitch. You can't do Do you understand everything
ALAN DAVENPORT: Do you understand everything
PAUL: You can't do this! Alan takes a second before trying again.
ALAN DAVENPORT: Do you understand everything you've been told, Mister Conroy? Paul does not answer.
PAUL: Go to hell.
ALAN DAVENPORT: That concludes our interview with Paul Conroy. I am now turning off the recorder. A click is heard. The humming ceases.
PAUL: You people can't just wash your hands of this. You bastards put me I'm sorry. Alan ends the call. Paul looks at the phone it is still holding a steady signal. Battery life, however, is running quite low. All that remains is one blinking bar, indicating that Paul has very little battery life left. He shakes his hand free of the pile of sand that now covers it and looks at his watch. It's 8:31pm. The flashlight bulb dims until it goes out completely. Only the light of the cell phone display lights the coffin.
ALAN DAVENPORT: I'm sorry. Alan ends the call. Paul looks at the phone it is still holding a steady signal. Battery life, however, is running quite low. All that remains is one blinking bar, indicating that Paul has very little battery life left. He shakes his hand free of the pile of sand that now covers it and looks at his watch. It's 8:31pm. The flashlight bulb dims until it goes out completely. Only the light of the cell phone display lights the coffin.
PAUL: Come on. Wasting little time, Paul dials Jabir. The phone rings and rings, but Jabir does not answer. Checking to make sure the he dialed the correct number, Paul matches it against the phone number he wrote onto the wall of the coffin. Seeing that he did, in fact, dial correctly, Paul again tries to call Jabir. While he waits through the many rings, he tries relighting the Zippo. Spark.spark.it catches. No one answers. Paul's disquietude is evident in his increasingly erratic behavior.
PAUL: Answer the phone!! Paul tries Jabir once again, but still he does not answer the ( desperate, exhausted ) Why won't you answer?!! It's then that something occurs to Paul. He stares at the crack in the top of the coffin and the sand that pours in at an alarmingly fast rate. The crack has split Jabir's written phone number in half. The aerial bombing. He wonders how it may have affected Jabir and, consequently, his own chances of survival. He places his hand under the point from where the sand pours in most, allowing it to collect on his palm and slip through his The flickering Zippo flame tells of the diminished amount of Paul attempts to control his breathing, realizing full well that there are not many more breaths he will be able to take. He then calls Dan Brenner. After a few rings, Brenner Paul is surprisingly serene.
PAUL: ( desperate, exhausted ) Why won't you answer?!! It's then that something occurs to Paul. He stares at the crack in the top of the coffin and the sand that pours in at an alarmingly fast rate. The crack has split Jabir's written phone number in half. The aerial bombing. He wonders how it may have affected Jabir and, consequently, his own chances of survival. He places his hand under the point from where the sand pours in most, allowing it to collect on his palm and slip through his The flickering Zippo flame tells of the diminished amount of Paul attempts to control his breathing, realizing full well that there are not many more breaths he will be able to take. He then calls Dan Brenner. After a few rings, Brenner Paul is surprisingly serene.
DAN: Paul, is that you?
PAUL: They're dead.
DAN: How do you know that?
PAUL: I just do.
DAN: Three F-16s levelled parts of the city a few minutes ago.
PAUL: I know. I felt it. Did they know I was here? The Zippo flame flutters. Weakens.
DAN: ( after a beat ) Did they care? Dan does not answer.
PAUL: Did they care? Dan does not answer.
DAN: We can still try to track down your You tried that already.
PAUL: You tried that already.
DAN: We can try again. Paul appreciates Dan's effort, but he knows there is little hope left for him.
DAN: Paul doesn't say a word. He knows that Dan is lying. After a beat, Dan comes clean.
PAUL: What should I do?
DAN: I don't know.
PAUL: That's right just like everyone else on the planet, there are some things you know and some things you I wish this could have gone Yeah.me too. After a long beat, Paul ends the call. He forces a smile to his lachrymose face. Utterly hopeless, he opens the phone and turns on the video feature. He turns the phone to face himself, projecting his image on the display. He presses Record.
DAN: I wish this could have gone Yeah.me too. After a long beat, Paul ends the call. He forces a smile to his lachrymose face. Utterly hopeless, he opens the phone and turns on the video feature. He turns the phone to face himself, projecting his image on the display. He presses Record.
PAUL: Yeah.me too. After a long beat, Paul ends the call. He forces a smile to his lachrymose face. Utterly hopeless, he opens the phone and turns on the video feature. He turns the phone to face himself, projecting his image on the display. He presses Record.
PAUL: You're not dead. Jabir is heard speaking frantically in Arabic to the several other people in the room with him.
JABIR: Where is money?
PAUL: I don't know.
JABIR: What don't know?
PAUL: I don't know where the money is.
JABIR: I'm not lying! I swear.
PAUL: I'm not lying! I swear.
JABIR: I'm telling the truth.
PAUL: I'm telling the truth.
JABIR: From Embassy, you get money now!
PAUL: I can't!
JABIR: You will!!
PAUL: I need more time. Please. Paul shakes and hits the flashlight. It still does not work.
JABIR: No more time!
PAUL: There's sand pouring in here. I can't.it's everywhere. Please, let me out of here and I will get you the money. Jabir utters something in Arabic to someone standing next to him, seemingly asking a question and getting an answer from the same individual. Paul unscrews the top of the flashlight. Switches the positioning of the batteries. Screws the cap back on. Hits the switch. Jabir returns to the phone.
PAUL: Paul unscrews the top of the flashlight again. Removes the batteries. Bites down on them a few times. Blows hard inside the flashlight tube.
JABIR: You show blood, they give money.
PAUL: You cut off thumb finger, send I'm not doing that.
JABIR: You cut off thumb finger, send I'm not doing that.
PAUL: I'm not doing that.
JABIR: Paul puts the batteries back inside the flashlight. Begins screwing on the cap.
PAUL: That's right, no. You let me out of here, and I'll cut off my whole God damn hand if you want. Jabir again says something to someone in the room with him, returning to Paul after a brief moment. Paul finishes closing the top of the flashlight.
JABIR: That's right, no. You let me out of here, and I'll cut off my whole God damn hand if you want. Jabir again says something to someone in the room with him, returning to Paul after a brief moment. Paul finishes closing the top of the flashlight.
PAUL: That's right, no. You let me out of here, and I'll cut off my whole God damn hand if you want. Jabir again says something to someone in the room with him, returning to Paul after a brief moment. Paul finishes closing the top of the flashlight.
JABIR: You have wife? Click. The flashlight turns on! Paul considers Jabir's question to be a potential sign of Yes, I do. And a son. A young son. I want to go home.to see them. Please, sir.
PAUL: Yes, I do. And a son. A young son. I want to go home.to see them. Please, sir.
JABIR: Yes. Sir. I say that out of respect.to you.
PAUL: Yes. Sir. I say that out of respect.to you.
JABIR: 243 East Walnut Street. Hastings, Michigan. U.S.A.
PAUL: ( CONCERNED )
JABIR: You show blood.or they show That's.you're lying. You're nobody.all of you. You can't get to them.
PAUL: That's.you're lying. You're nobody.all of you. You can't get to them.
JABIR: No. You're peasants, criminals, that's all. You don't even know where Michigan is.
PAUL: No. You're peasants, criminals, that's all. You don't even know where Michigan is.
JABIR: Detroit. Ann Arbor. Even this basic knowledge is enough to make Jabir's threats that much more real.
PAUL: You looked at a map. That's all you did.
JABIR: You show blood, or they show blood. Send video by five minutes. Jabir ends the call. Realizing that Jabir is gone, Paul quickly dials his wife's cell phone. After several rings, her voice mail picks up.
PAUL: ( FRANTICALLY )
DAN: This is Daniel Brenner. Please leave a message at the tone. The beep sounds. Paul delivers a frenzied message.
PAUL: Brenner, where are you?! He's alive! He just called me! Call me right away! The fucking guy is still alive! Paul hangs up the phone. Unsure what to do next, Paul's heartbeat races. He fidgets, nervously shaking and tapping his thumb against the phone. He questions the validity of Jabir's threats toward his They can't find them. They.can't. There's no way. Paul opens the phone and brings up the photo of Pamela, bound and gagged. The image causes Paul to second guess himself. The flashlight goes out. The cell phone's display illuminates Paul's face.
PAUL: ( TO HIMSELF )
VOICE #1: He's down here!
VOICE #2: Get him out! Keep digging!
VOICE #3: Paul, we're here! The cacophony of voices form a mosaic of sound in Paul's head, each overlapping the other in distant echoes. Shovels, digging deep into the ground, are heard banging against the top of the coffin. The top of the coffin is torn open, sending a brilliant ray of white light onto Paul. He stares into the light, crying, eking out a tortured smile.
PAUL: Paul, it's Brenner. Paul doesn't have the strength to answer.
DAN: Paul, it's Brenner. Paul doesn't have the strength to answer.
PAUL: We're coming for you now. You hear me? We know where you are. This news serves as somewhat of an adrenaline rush for Paul, who musters up even the modicum of strength he seemingly did not have left in him.
DAN: We're coming for you now. You hear me? We know where you are. This news serves as somewhat of an adrenaline rush for Paul, who musters up even the modicum of strength he seemingly did not have left in him.
PAUL: You're coming?
DAN: We are, Paul. We're almost there How do you know?
PAUL: How do you know?
DAN: Coalition forces picked up a Shiite insurgent just outside of Baghdad.
PAUL: You're coming for me?
DAN: We're practically there already. An impossible smile fights its way to Paul's lips. His momentary joy is just that, however, for the sand has almost completely filled the coffin by this point.
PAUL: You have to hurry.
DAN: We are.
PAUL: No.you have to hurry. The sand.it's filling up fast.
DAN: Just hang in there for three more minutes. This will all be over soon, I promise. Paul is very hopeful that Dan is correct in his assumption.
PAUL: Okay. I believe you. Thank you. Thank you. A beep is heard. Paul has another call coming in. He's visibly elated upon seeing who it is.
DAN: Three minutes. Try to
PAUL: I have to go!
DAN: Paul, no
PAUL: Call me right back.
DAN: Call me right back. Paul switches to the other call, despite the fact that he has a mere eight inches left before the entire coffin is filled with sand from top-to-bottom. He holds the flashlight just above the top of the sand pile, allowing it to illuminate what little unoccupied area Linda is in hysterics, which is evident in her speech.
PAUL: Call me right back. Paul switches to the other call, despite the fact that he has a mere eight inches left before the entire coffin is filled with sand from top-to-bottom. He holds the flashlight just above the top of the sand pile, allowing it to illuminate what little unoccupied area Linda is in hysterics, which is evident in her speech.
PAUL: Linda is in hysterics, which is evident in her speech.
LINDA: Paul? Paul is that you? Tell me it's you.
PAUL: It's me, sweetie.
LINDA: Oh my God, Paul! What are they doing to you? Please tell me you're okay.
PAUL: I just saw the news. What.oh my God, baby. The flashlight dims. Paul shakes it, regaining a bit of its It's going to be okay now.
LINDA: I just saw the news. What.oh my God, baby. The flashlight dims. Paul shakes it, regaining a bit of its It's going to be okay now.
PAUL: It's going to be okay now.
LINDA: I missed all your calls. I left my cell phone at home. I just found out what was going on.
PAUL: That's okay. It's all okay. They're getting me out.
LINDA: The people. Americans. They found out where I am and they're on their way to get me.
PAUL: The people. Americans. They found out where I am and they're on their way to get me.
LINDA: ( ELATED )
PAUL: It's all going to be okay.
LINDA: How do you know for sure? Oh God, please tell me you're okay. The flashlight continues to flicker almost like a stroboscopic light from this point forward.
PAUL: I'm okay.
LINDA: I was so afraid I was going to lose You're not. Linda breaks down in joyous tears.
PAUL: You're not. Linda breaks down in joyous tears.
LINDA: I love you so much. I love you so, so much.
PAUL: ( WELLING UP )
LINDA: It doesn't matter.
PAUL: I should have never come here. You were right. I'm sorry.
LINDA: Sweetie, I don't care. I just want you home. Please come home to me.
PAUL: I will.
LINDA: Swear it.
PAUL: I will. I swear I will. Paul then receives a call on the other line. He checks to see who's calling. It's Dan Brenner.
LINDA: The people?
PAUL: They're calling me right now. I have to go.
LINDA: Call me right away.
PAUL: I will. I love you.
LINDA: I love you. Swear it again.
PAUL: I swear. I have to go. Paul clicks over to the other line, where Dan Brenner waits to speak with him. We hear Dan yelling to people who are with him. A great deal of commotion and action is heard through the phone.
DAN: Move! Move! Let's go.
PAUL: Paul? Paul?
DAN: Paul? Paul?
PAUL: It's me.
DAN: We're here! Dan yells to one of the soldiers who are with him.
PAUL: You have to hurry. It's almost Just hang in there!
DAN: Just hang in there!
PAUL: Hurry! Please!
DAN: ( to the soldiers ) Dig! Dig! Dig! Paul fights to keep his head above the sand. The flashlight I can't.are you close?
PAUL: I can't.are you close?
DAN: We're almost there, Paul. We're almost there! ( to the soldiers )
PAUL: I can't hear you! Where are you?
DAN: We're almost there. A SOLDIER is heard OFF-SCREEN in the b.g. of Dan's phone.
DAN: ( to the soldiers ) Keep digging!!
PAUL: Hurry! Please!!!
DAN: We see the coffin! Just hang in Paul coughs out sand. He has a mere inch left above his Hurry! Where are you? I don't hear you? Please hurry!!! The Soldier is again heard OFF-SCREEN in the b.g. Of Dan's It's clear!
PAUL: Hurry! Where are you? I don't hear you? Please hurry!!! The Soldier is again heard OFF-SCREEN in the b.g. Of Dan's It's clear!
SOLDIER: It's clear!
DAN: ( to the soldier ) Open it! Nondescript noise is heard through the phone, until it comes to an abrupt stop.
DAN: ( SHOCKED )
PAUL: What is it?!
DAN: I'm so sorry, Paul.
PAUL: It's Mark White. He brought us to Mark White. I'm We see the circled name of "MARK WHITE" written in capital letters on the top of the coffin.
DAN: It's Mark White. He brought us to Mark White. I'm We see the circled name of "MARK WHITE" written in capital letters on the top of the coffin.
PAUL: You said.!
DAN: ( OVERLAPPING )
PAUL: I'm so sorry.
DAN: I'm so sorry.
PAUL: No!! No!! NO!!! The battery life on Paul's phone runs out, causing it to power down. The filament of the flashlight bulb burns out. As it does, the sand finally consumes the coffin, filling it We hear Paul's muffled screams emanate through the sand, until we no longer hear them at all.
OVER BLACK: I'm sorry, Paul. I'm so sorry.
DAN: I'm sorry, Paul. I'm so sorry.
THE END: Writers : Chris Sparling
