BLACK: Sounds of a train rolling to a halt, a shrill whistle.
FRECKLED KID: Man, what's the matter with you?
SCOTT: No, my eyes. my eyes are killing me.
FRECKLED KID: You want some Visine, man?
SCOTT: My. eyes.
SCOTT: . they're burning.
FRECKLED KID: Dude, how much did you smoke?
SCOTT: I didn't smoke anything.
KELLY: You're avoiding the question I posed to you at the beginning of the hearing, Ms. Grey. Three words: Are mutants dangerous?
JEAN: I am avoiding a question that is decidedly loaded, Senator. The wrong person behind the wheel of a car can be dangerous. Well, we do license people to drive.
SENATOR ROWEE: Well, we do license people to drive.
JEAN: But not to live.
KELLY: Ms. Grey you work at a school for mutants in Westchester, New York. Can you tell the members of this committee what exactly you are teaching these Math. History. Science. English. You wouldn't happen to be teaching them how to use their powers to
JEAN: Math. History. Science. English. You wouldn't happen to be teaching them how to use their powers to
KELLY: You wouldn't happen to be teaching them how to use their powers to
JEAN: Control, Senator. we teach them
KELLY: This was taken by a state police officer in Secaucus, New Jersey. A man in a minor altercation literally melted the car in front of him. I don't know where you come from, Ms. Grey, but where I come from, you don't go melting people's cars when they cut you off. You do it the old fashioned way you give 'em the finger. But what you presume to tell this committee -
JEAN: I presume nothing, I am here to tell you that in time, the mutator gene will activate in every living human being on this planet. Perhaps even your children, Senator.
KELLY: I can assure you, there is no such creature in my genes. Ms. Grey, we are not here to weed out mutants. The Registration Act is designed merely to assess their potential threat - if any - to national security. Mutants are very real. They are among us. We must know who they are. And above all, we must know what they can Dr. Grey, how do you feel about the Senator's Statement / How is the mutant community reacting? Is it true that mutants are dangerous? / Is there a mutant plot to overthrow the
JEAN: Weíre not the ones to be afraid of.
WHACK: He reaches over and shuts off the music coming from the box beside him. He listens. He stands, turning around slowly in a circle. He drops the sketch pad on the chair. Only the crackle of logs in the fire. LOGANíS P.O.V. We follow his gaze around the room. Past the fire which sounds suddenly like a blazing inferno, past the clock which ticks as loud as clapping hands, past the simmering tea-kettle which hisses like a seething cauldron. Finally, he glances at the cigar which we hear crackling nearly as loud as the fire. Loganís senses are amplified many times more then ours, he walks to the door.
BOOM: THE WINDOW EXPLODES, letting in freezing wind and billowing snow. Logan is hit from behind. The attack is so ferocious that we are unable to make out the attacker. Whatever it is, it is HUGE. We can hear it snarling and see flashes of its claws as it slams Logan back.
UNDER ICE: Logan struggles, already short of breath. As he struggles water starts to fill his lungs. His skin goes pale. He is drowning.
UNDER ICE: Loganís struggle has decreased somewhat as his strength The ice above Logan shatters as a clawed hand reaches EXT. ABOVE ICE - DAY A violent YANK. The ice gives way to the soaked and half- frozen Logan. The creature picks Logan up by his face, CUTTING DEEPLY into his cheek, and holds him up like a rag doll. The two are face to face. This is called SABRETOOTH. The reasons are obvious. Teeth like said animal and catís eyes to match. A mutant, certainly a member of a class remote in the And then it speaks.
CRACK: The ice above Logan shatters as a clawed hand reaches EXT. ABOVE ICE - DAY A violent YANK. The ice gives way to the soaked and half- frozen Logan. The creature picks Logan up by his face, CUTTING DEEPLY into his cheek, and holds him up like a rag doll. The two are face to face. This is called SABRETOOTH. The reasons are obvious. Teeth like said animal and catís eyes to match. A mutant, certainly a member of a class remote in the And then it speaks.
SABRETOOTH: Itís not gonna be that easy.
A MACHINE: A fantastic device which occupies a hallowed space in this lab. It is meticulously designed, and with its intricate circuitry, wires, and power boards, it resembles most closely ( and only resembles, because truly itís like nothing weíve ever seen before ) a combination of an upright torpedo and a fantastic light source only far more dark and foreboding. Pyro holds a stick of solder in one hand. He lights a lighter with the other, then drops it. Strange thing the flame remains hovering about his finger. Quickly the flame intensifies and turns blue, melting the solder over a small circuit board. Then, the flame is gone. He sticks out his hand like a surgeon.
PYRO: Hand me the dykes. I asked you not to do that.
INTERVIEWER: .and the leading voice in the call for Mutant registration is Senator Scott Frank Kelly, of Florida, who claims to support the constitutional rights of the genetically enhanced, but whose crusade to register mutants is gaining popularity.
MAGNETO: Not this one again. Your expression tells me the news is not good, brother.
SABRETOOTH: I lost him.
MAGNETO: It was Xavierís people. They knew.
SABRETOOTH: It was Xavierís people. They knew.
MAGNETO: I want him. That is all they know because that is all you know.
WOLVERINE: We hear the voice of Senator Kelly on the TV. Kelly is on the screen giving good face. As he turns up the television, and again, we donít see how, he places the dog tag on his desk, thinking.
KELLY: I think the Presidentís pre-occupation with international affairs has drawn his attention away from this problem. Americanís deserve the right to decide whether they want their children to be in school with mutants. To be taught by mutants. They also have the right to know the dangers. Thatís the purpose of registration. And mark my words, if the President isnít strong enough to do what needs to be done.
MAGNETO: And you may mark my words, Senator Kelly. All your plotting, all your hatred. I have plans for you. Iíve seen you come, and I will see you go.
SABRETOOTH: Is that what youíre looking for?
MAGNETO: A piece. Only a piece.
SABRETOOTH: Is it enough?
MAGNETO: Enough for a test.
KELLY: I canít believe the President canít see it. I wouldnít be surprised if he has a mutant on his staff.
GUYRICH: Have you thought of a demonstration of some kind? Maybe use the UN Summit to our advantage. The whole world will be watching.
KELLY: Iím not interested in the whole world, Henry. Iím interested in America. Let the rest of the world deal with mutants their own way.
GUYRICH: Where to?
KELLY: Guyrich leans to address the driver.
GUYRICH: Dulles Airport.
SNAP: Loganís hand reaches up quickly, breaking the needle off in his arm. He grabs a startled Jean by the throat. He is out of bed. She is unable to speak, choked silent by his grip. He places his fist near her face. We see the three faint scars just above his knuckles. Hesitation. Logan looks at her for a moment. Taken by her beauty. Then he is on his feet. Jean is on the floor, gasping for breath. Logan realizes something is missing. He reaches to his chest and feels for the dog tag. Gone. He stifles a He looks at Jean who recoils from him in terror. Logan thinks, then bolts.
LOGAN: Where is it?
VOICE: . until the Emperor Constantine converted to Christianity. With that one act, history was changed. The Christians who were once prosecuted and fed to the lions, became accepted.
BEAST: So as their leaders went, so did follow the hearts and minds of the people of the Roman empire. Which made for some very happy Christians. Can I help you?
XAVIER: Would you like some breakfast? Iím sorry, allow me to formally introduce myself I am Professor Charles Xavier. This is my school.
LOGAN: How do you know my name?
XAVIER: Youíre not the only one with gifts.
LOGAN: What am I doing here?
XAVIER: I brought you here so that you would be safe from Magneto.
LOGAN: A very powerful mutant who for some reason has taken an interest in you. Iím not sure why, but until we find out, I must ask you to stay.
XAVIER: A very powerful mutant who for some reason has taken an interest in you. Iím not sure why, but until we find out, I must ask you to stay.
LOGAN: No thanks.
KELLY: Where the hell are we?
GUYRICH: No answer. Guyrich tries to open the door. Itís locked. Kelly looks out the window now and sees the helicopter is closing in on an island - where, is anyoneís guess. What is known is that the place is no pleasure resort. It is in fact some sort of refurbished island fortress, complete with turrets, built right into the side of the EXT. ISLAND HELIPAD - DUSK A clearing in the middle of a ring of trees at the base of a rocky rise. The helicopter touches down. THE PILOT, wrapped from head to toe in a flight suit and helmet, gets out and opens the side door, exposing Kelly and Guyrich to the intense wind of the rotors. They cover their eyes, cowering. KELLYíS P.O.V. Two figures come out of a hole in the mountain. One seems extremely larger than the other. Guyrich and Kelly step out. As they get closer he can make out Magneto and Sabretooth.
KELLY: Dear God. Dear. God. What the hell is this?
KELLY: You. wha. Who are you. Where is Mr. Guyrich has been dead for some time Senator.
MAGNETO: Mr. Guyrich has been dead for some time Senator.
KELLY: You mutant bastards.
KELLY: Whatever you do to me. no matter what youíll make me right. Every word I have spoken will be confirmed.
MAGNETO: Gosh, I hope so.
KELLY: People like you are the reason people like me exist.
MYSTIQUE: And people like you are the reason I was afraid to go to school as a child.
BLACK: INT. MACHINE ROOM - MAGNETOíS LAIR - NIGHT Kelly comes to. Magneto walks past him, holding Loganís dog tag. His thumb crushes one last time over the curious PULL OUT TO REVEAL: Kelly is strapped to a metal chair, bound impossibly tight. He struggles. Mystique watches from the far side of the room.
MAGNETO: Are you a ìGod-fearing man,î Senator? That term always confused me. As if there were something to fear. God after all, is often defined as all- forgiving. A description I rather like. I think what you really are afraid of. .Is me and my kind. The Brotherhood of Mutants. And this law. Your mutant registration act is only the The intention of registration act -
KELLY: The intention of registration act -
MAGNETO: INTENTION? Intention, Senator? We are talking about mankind here. His fear. It is only a matter of time before mutants will be herded into camps. Studied for weaknesses. And eventually wiped off the face of the Well, weíre much more giving than that. We simply want to share with you. To help you understand.
KELLY: What is it you intend to do to me?
MAGNETO: ( smiling ) Letís just say, God works too slowly. Youíre a leader, Senator Kelly you set an example. And if more of you. were like more of us? Well, youíll Donít fear God, Senator. And certainly - most certainly. donít fear me. Not any more.
SABRETOOTH: Weíve found him.
MAGNETO: ANGLE on Kelly, his skin glistening slightly, almost luminescent. Pinker ( healthier? ) then it was when he came in.
KELLY: Oh. Oh God. what have you done to
MAGNETO: Welcome to the future. brother. Now if youíll excuse me. I have a train to catch.
BRAD 1: Rogue looks at him, then quickly looks away. The Brads laugh amongst themselves at her reaction.
BRAD 2: ( looking at her duffle bag ) Where are you going?
BRAD 1: Awww. look guys sheís shy.
BRAD 3: Maybe thatís why sheís alone. Is that why youíre alone?
BRAD 4: Iíll keep you company. Hey. Iím talking to you. I said Iím talking to you! I said.!
BRAD 1: Hey, what did you do?
ROGUE: Donít touch me. Hey Brad, sheís a mutant!
BRAD 3: Hey Brad, sheís a mutant!
LOGAN: How about you sit down and leave the kid alone, alright?
BRAD 1: Sheís a mutant.
LOGAN: Yeah, well, nobodyís perfect.
BRAD 1: ( who is considerably larger I think you should take a seat little Listen I donít want any trouble.
LOGAN: Listen I donít want any trouble.
BRAD 1: Well you got trouble.
TRANSIT COP: Freeze. transit police. Drop your
MAGNETO: You can come out now, Logan. Youíre among friends.
TRANSIT COP: With a turn of his finger, Magneto draws the pistol to him. The cop holds tight and is yanked off the train, onto the ground. With another twist of his hand, Magneto makes the gun leap from the copís grasp and HOVER, pointing at the copís head.
MAGNETO: You Homo Sapiens and your guns.
MAGNETO: Iíll never understand your regard for them, Charles.
XAVIER: And Iíll never understand terrorists.
MAGNETO: I am trying to save our kind, Charles. You should do the same.
XAVIER: Not at the cost of lives, Max.
MAGNETO: The chair is pulled closer to Magneto. Cyclops steps forward. Xavier need not turn to know help is coming. Magneto sees and respects Cyclopsís power. The chair stops moving.
XAVIER: ( to Cyclops ) Itís alright. itís alright.
MAGNETO: The two in Alaska. Just how do you people manage to be in the right place at the right time? Still tinkering with Cerebro?
XAVIER: ( referring to Logan ) What do you want with him?
MAGNETO: Canít read my mind? Iíll tell you something, Charles, we are more alike now than we were when we started.
XAVIER: Is that so?
MAGNETO: Still trying to make the world safe for our kind. Still trying to find a way to introduce ourselves You definition of definitive was always a bit extreme for me, Max. What is it like these days?
XAVIER: You definition of definitive was always a bit extreme for me, Max. What is it like these days?
MAGNETO: Letís just say that I am out to make some radical changes. Now come on Charles. For old times sake, for your sake. Leave him to me. Ahh. there you are brother. I believe you possess something I am very much in need of.
TOAD: Do it again. Oh God it hurts. Do it again.
PYRO: IíM BLIND.
MYSTIQUE: I have to go to the bathroom.
MAGNETO: If I could make you understand. If you could just be made to see it the way I do. The way itís going to be.
XAVIER: The way what is going to be?
MAGNETO: Iím going to change the world with or without you as a witness, Charles. And this one gets a front row seat.
XAVIER: What do you mean to do?
MAGNETO: This checkmate goes to you. I didnít want to hurt anyone. But you leave me no choice.
XAVIER: WHAT DO YOU MEAN TO DO? Now will you come back with us?
LOGAN: Look, I appreciate your concern. But, I do better on my own.
XAVIER: You got less than sixty miles today. Iíll make you a deal. Two days. If we havenít figured out what Magneto wants with you by then. Iíll bring you back myself.
LOGAN: What are you going to do with her?
XAVIER: Rogue is a beautiful girl, with an extraordinary power. One that even her own family isnít able to accept. Sheís been on her own for weeks now, searching for a home. A place to Weíre going to give her that. Forty-eight hours, old man. But if you cross me, I wonít feel any guilt about what I do to you.
LOGAN: Forty-eight hours, old man. But if you cross me, I wonít feel any guilt about what I do to you.
XAVIER: Logan eyes the rest of the gang until he settles his gaze on Jean. He offers a faint seductive smile. This is not lost on Cyclops. INT. MAGNETOíS LAIR - CELL - LATER - NIGHT A cell with bars, but no visible door. Kelly is hunched over his toilet, heaving. His suit is rumpled and dirty, showing signs that time has passed. There is a television just outside the door: We see SEVERAL NEWS HELICOPTERS circling a platform built against the backdrop of the main entrance to Ellis Island. We see massive security measures, the likes of which have never been attempted, being prepared. ( Voice plays over the rest of the scene )
KELLY: What have you bastards done to me?
VOICE: Kelly turns and screams. Blob has just walked into the room and lunges, grabbing him by the arms. Kelly is enveloped in this fat, hulking mass. He manages to keep one hand free and all he can do is push it against Blobís face. It is futile. Until. Steam begins to come off Blobís face. And Blob SCREAMS
MAGNETO: How are we feeling today, Senator? Advanced, I hope. I want him alive.
SABRETOOTH: Iíll find him.
MAGNETO: And Sabretooth bolts back from where they came. EXT. MAGNETOíS LAIR - NIGHT Kelly hits the fresh air, looking around wildly. He runs for the edge of a cliff high over the ocean. He raises his hands, we see his palms are covered with those wicked spines and they are dripping a venomous fluid not too different in color from the wound on Blobís But then suddenly, something is wrong. Kelly buckles, clutching his stomach again. He squelches what would have been a scream of agony. He looks at his palms and the spikes are gone. Kelly hears footsteps. Suddenly out of the darkness Sabretooth barrels toward him. Kelly turns and LEAPS. Sabretooth comes to the edge of the cliff. When he looks over, Kellyís body has vanished. Swallowed by the sea. Only his clothes remain on the rocks below. INT. LOGANíS ROOM - NIGHT Jean shows Logan the simple dorm cube with a bed and a small desk. Jean opens the door for Logan and he inspects the sparse surroundings grimly. Cyclops stands just outside the door - eavesdropping.
JEAN: Anything else I can get you?
LOGAN: Some cigars. Case of beer.
JEAN: Thereís no smoking or drinking on the school grounds.
LOGAN: I wonít light the cigars - how about Iíll see what I can do You should get some sleep. Even with your healing ability, youíre going to be hurting for a while.
JEAN: Iíll see what I can do You should get some sleep. Even with your healing ability, youíre going to be hurting for a while.
LOGAN: What if I like the pain?
JEAN: The Professor said you were a solider. Actually, I believe he used the word Yeah? Well I donít like to talk about my past.
LOGAN: Yeah? Well I donít like to talk about my past.
JEAN: Maybe, the Professor could help you with that.
LOGAN: By reading my thoughts?
JEAN: If necessary.
LOGAN: ( smirks ) What if theyíre naughty?
JEAN: Get some shut-eye, slick.
JEAN: Scott.. I -
CYCLOPS: I donít like him being here.
JEAN: What are you talking about?
CYCLOPS: You saw what happened tonight. You think Magneto wonít come after him again. You think he wonít come here if necessary. This is a school, for Godís sake.
JEAN: If Magneto is planning to use Logan for some terrible purpose itís our responsibility to do something. Whatís wrong? Thereís something else bothering you. I have a bad feeling about this. You know I love you, Scott. I hope you donít mind. I understand this helps you relax.
CYCLOPS: I have a bad feeling about this. You know I love you, Scott. I hope you donít mind. I understand this helps you relax.
JEAN: You know I love you, Scott. I hope you donít mind. I understand this helps you relax.
BEAST: Adamantium. Until today I thought it to be a myth. Impenetrable, unbendable, resistant to the most extreme heat, cold, indestructible.
XAVIER: He also has accelerated healing abilities - uncharted regenerative capability, making his age impossible to determine. He could very well be older than I am.
STORM: Is the Adamantium part of his No. Someone put it there, relying on his healing abilities to keep him What do you think Magneto wants with
XAVIER: No. Someone put it there, relying on his healing abilities to keep him What do you think Magneto wants with
CYCLOPS: What do you think Magneto wants with
XAVIER: Iím not entirely sure itís ìhimî that Magneto wants.
BLACK: He awakens - STILL LOGANíS P.O.V. He struggles weakly with restraints as doctors in lab coats and thick, red rubber gloves stand over him taking notes, paying very little attention to him at all. On the other side of the room is a huge vat filled with some kind of molten metal. At the base of the vat is a giant electromagnet generating a huge gyroscope which created enormous friction energy - the apparent source of the intense heat for melting the metal in the vat.
BLACK: Awake again, but this time sinking into water - restrained completely now. Logan looks down and gets only a glance of his body, seeing that he is a series of incisions from head to toe - literally split open - the flesh held back with hundreds of clamps.
SCREAMING: Loganís screaming as he comes to. Loganís eyes FLASH OPEN. He looks up and sees a figure looming over him. In a flash he reacts. THUD. Nothing more. Then silence. The door bursts open and Cyclops stands in the doorway shocked. Frozen. Jean is next and finally Storm. They can only stare. Logan sits upright in bed, CLAWS EXTENDED, INTO ROGUEíS CHEST. She is literally frozen at the end of his arm. Finally, Cyclops breaks the silence and moves to grab Cyclops freezes. Logan finally pulls his claws free and retracts them. Rogue staggers, she pitches forward and touches his face gently with her hands, as though she would like him to be the last thing she sees on this Earth. Logan and Rogue, locked in a fatal moment of tenderness snaring a look of loneliness that only they can But suddenly, Logan seems to change. And before he can say another word, he begins to tremble, then he starts to howl in pain. Rogue SNAPS BACK, mouth open in a gaping, silent scream. What sound comes out does not match the expression at all. Merely a gasp, like steam escaping. Through the huge slash in her clothes, we see the wound on her chest slowly vanish. Before long, she transforms back into a healthy young girl with no sign of injury. Then, her escaping breath begins to accelerate, much in the way Loganís did - too much like Loganís did. It is as if she has taken in his trait of berserker rage. Soon she is smashing things all around her. One hand rakes the wallpaper like claws. Finally, she gets a hold of herself, becoming the introverted Rogue we all know so well. Then she stands slowly, looks at the others. And she runs from the room. Storm runs after her. The rest turn to Logan, who lays on the floor, Jean goes to help him. She looks back at Cyclops. His expression makes it clear that his worst fears about Logan have come to pass.
STORM: DONíT TOUCH HER.
LOGAN: Why is everybody up at sunrise?
STORM: The sun is setting, Logan. Youíve been asleep for nineteen hours.
LOGAN: What did she do to me?
STORM: She borrowed your power to save her life. When she touches someone, she absorbs their strengths their gifts. In your case your ability to heal. Thatís why she keeps her body covered.
LOGAN: I felt like she almost killed me.
STORM: If she held on any longer she could And you think it helps calling her
LOGAN: And you think it helps calling her
STORM: Weíve learned to embrace what we are rather than hide it like an affliction. For some, it has become their identity. You mock the names these people choose but they wear them as badges of pride.
LOGAN: Inspiring Now what am I doing here?
STORM: Of course.
CYCLOPS: Letís take a walk.
CYCLOPS: How long have you been in Alaska?
LOGAN: I donít remember. Is that what you wanted to ask me?
CYCLOPS: I just wanted to make you clear on something. Personally, I donít care what Magneto wants with you. He can take those claws of yours and use them for Barbecue skewers. What I do care about is the safety of this group. The Professor is in charge, and after the Professor, thereís me. So, for the remainder of your time here, youíre going to keep that killer instinct of yours locked down so no one else gets hurt. Iíve served with men like you before. Methodical. Systematic Naive. You know what happens to those men in a real fight?
LOGAN: ( smirks ) Iíve served with men like you before. Methodical. Systematic Naive. You know what happens to those men in a real fight?
CYCLOPS: You know, you
LOGAN: Shut up. I got no interest in you, or your. X-Men. And I donít think this has anything to do with my ìkiller instinct.î You just donít like the way Iím looking at your girl Or maybe you donít like the way sheís looking back. And maybe you think youíre man enough to do something about it. Címon sport. You think you can blow the meat off my bones before I gut you? Letís find out.
LOGAN: I have a question for you, Chuck. Whatís the point?
XAVIER: The point of what?
LOGAN: This. This whole God damn thing. Making yourselves into some sort of ìteamî of super-powered freaks. Teaching wayward mutants about classical literature. For what?
XAVIER: The point is to step into a more evolved position of social responsibility. To recognize that there is a world out there and that we mutants are as much a part of it as normal human beings.
LOGAN: What if it never happens? What if theyíre so afraid of us that we become the enemy? This place is gonna be one giant cemetery.
XAVIER: Now thatís Magneto talking.
LOGAN: No. Thatís me talking. And you know what? Itís only been thirty-two hours and you still have no idea what this guy wants with me.
XAVIER: I believe he wants you for your Youíre thinking of your dog tag. It was made of Adamantium wasnít it?
XAVIER: What is it?
JEAN: Rogueís missing.
LOGAN: Where are we going?
XAVIER: To find Rogue.
LOGAN: The brainwaves of mutants are quite different than those of the average human being. Cerebro amplifies my power. It allows me to browse the worldís consciousness and find the genetically enhanced. This is how I found you.
XAVIER: The brainwaves of mutants are quite different than those of the average human being. Cerebro amplifies my power. It allows me to browse the worldís consciousness and find the genetically enhanced. This is how I found you.
LOGAN: You designed this yourself?
XAVIER: Actually, Magneto helped me put it He helped you?
LOGAN: He helped you?
XAVIER: We were friends once. But that was a long time ago.
BLACK: ROGUE ( O.S. )
SILENCE: ROGUE ( O.S. )
XAVIER: Iíve found her, Westchester Mall.
LOGAN: Iíll go.
CYCLOPS: No. Iíll go.
LOGAN: O.K. sport. you go.
STORM: Rogue looks up and sees Storm standing right in front of her. Her eyes dart around, looking for a way out. Finally, Rogue surrenders.
ROGUE: Iím sorry. Iím not like the rest of you Iím tired of hurting people.
STORM: Itís okay.
ROGUE: Why did I have to be like this? What purpose does it serve?
SABRETOOTH: Scream for me.
XAVIER: Dear God.
CYCLOPS: GET OUT OF THE WAY. GET OUT OF THE
BOOM: A huge bolt of lightning shoot from her body into Sabretoothís chest, knocking him back in shock. Storm falls to the ground, not breathing. Sabretooth, stunned and scorched, gets to his feet and smiles at his handiwork. He is about to move in and finish them both when the rumble of a helicopter can be heard above. He looks up and sees SENATOR KELLYíS HELICOPTER passing over the hold in the roof. Sabretooth leaps up and pulls himself out of the opening. Toad is a leap behind. Rogue rushes to Storm, struggling with how to give her mouth to mouth, CPR, anything to resuscitate her without touching. She is starting to panic now. She looks around, but anyone still left in the mall is running for the doors.
ROGUE: SOMEONE HELP ME. SHEíS NOT BREATHING.
CYCLOPS: ROGUE ( O.S. )
ROGUE?: ROGUE ( O.S. )
CYCLOPS: YOU HAVE TO COME AND GET ME. I CANíT
ROGUE: Here, here, here. a little left.
CYCLOPS: Oh God.
XAVIER: But why would they do this?
LOGAN: You should always work with a spotter.
JEAN: Heís busy right now. I was thinking maybe you and me could go into town.
LOGAN: I was thinking maybe you and me could go into town.
JEAN: Were you now?
LOGAN: What do you say?
JEAN: Not interested.
JEAN: Let go.
LOGAN: Suit yourself.
ACCESS DENIED: The scanner scans again. E.C.U. ON ROGUEíS EYE Something is wrong. The eye not being scanned is a familiar yellow. It is Mystique. Her other eye changes in the light of the scanner. The retina reshaping itself in minute ways. ANGLE ON: The screen ACCESS GRANTED CHARLES XAVIER The door to Cerebro opens. Rogue or rather Mystique, rushes in. She goes to a small panel on the side of Cerebro. She opens it. She reaches in. SHE REMOVES A COMPUTER CHIP No more than three inches wide.
LOGAN: Heís uptight.
JEAN: He takes his work seriously.
LOGAN: He takes himself seriously.
JEAN: What is it youíre failing to get at? Are you interested in me?
JEAN: Iím just interested.
JEAN: Logan, do you see this ring?
LOGAN: Iíve seen a lot of rings.
JEAN: Yeah, Iíll bet you have.
JEAN: Rogue, where have you been?
ROGUE: Logan. The Professor wants you to come with me right away.
LOGAN: ( to Rogue ) Hey Rogue, tell Jean what you were telling me last night.
ROGUE: The Professor
LOGAN: You remember. About women.
ROGUE: Whatever you say about them being the No two women smell alike.
LOGAN: Whatever you say about them being the No two women smell alike.
JEAN: Logan, what are you doing?
LOGAN: This ainít Rogue!
LOGAN: The lockers hit her in the back, sending her flying. Jean lies motionless on the floor, unconscious. The heavy lockers are floating above her, wavering between a few feet and a few inches.
MAGNETO: I do love a good check mate.
LOGAN: What do you want?
MAGNETO: Come with me and Iíll let her live.
LOGAN: You think I care about her? Iím the only one whoís sure to walk out of Then why donít you kill her. Go on. Kill her. You can do it quicker than I will. Maybe Iíll just cripple her. So do her the favor. Show her mercy. Call the others and tell them we have what we came for.
MAGNETO: Then why donít you kill her. Go on. Kill her. You can do it quicker than I will. Maybe Iíll just cripple her. So do her the favor. Show her mercy. Call the others and tell them we have what we came for.
XAVIER: Itís going to be alright.
STORM: When Rogue left the mansion, they must have followed her.
XAVIER: Yes. they wanted me out of the way. If I had been here. I. This was not your fault. I knew there was a danger, I should have never left the school. I am going to find Logan.
CYCLOPS: Whatís wrong with him?
JEAN: His vital signs are weak and getting Iím in the process of running more tests. But it seems that every minute that goes by he gets weaker. Can you help him?
BEAST: Iím in the process of running more tests. But it seems that every minute that goes by he gets weaker. Can you help him?
ROGUE: Can you help him?
BEAST: I donít know.
BEAST: Itís gone. The neuro-filter, someone removed it.
STORM: What does that mean?
BEAST: The neuro-filter acts like a surge protector, regulating the infinite flow of information from Cerebro to the Professorís mind. Itís what keeps him from being crushed by the consciousness of millions.
CYCLOPS: Can the Professor repair his own mind?
BEAST: Iím afraid without Cerebroís help, he wonít have the strength to heal himself And without the neuro- filter. thereís no Cerebro.
JEAN: Heís already losing control of his vitals. Respiratory. Cardiovascular. Unless we manage to replace the filter by tomorrow morning, Iím afraid.
CYCLOPS: We have to find Magneto.
JEAN: Are you all right?
CYCLOPS: No. Iím. I donít know if we can do this without Charles.
JEAN: He put you in charge for a reason,
SMALL GIRL: Dr. Grey?. Someone is here to see you.
KELLY: Dr. Grey.
JEAN: How did you get in here?
CYCLOPS: How did you get in here?
KELLY: Your front door was damaged. there was a hole. . I squeezed through. What in Godís name are you?
BEAST: Iím Beast.
KELLY: Of course you are.
KELLY: Iím sorry to come here, Ms. Grey. I was afraid if I went to a hospital, they would.
JEAN: ( interrupting ) Treat you like a mutant? We are not what you think. Not all of us.
KELLY: Tell it to the ones that did this to
JEAN: I donít see these spikes youíre talking about. Iím going to give you an antibiotic for the - Oh my God.
XAVIER: Hello, Rogue?
ROGUE: Hold on, Iíll get the others. Senator. Kelly?
XAVIER: Senator. Kelly?
KELLY: Yes. Who are you?
XAVIER: I am Charles Xavier. This is my Can you tell me what happened to you?
KELLY: ( weak, delirious ) I was kidnapped. They killed GUYRICH. mutants. There was a light. a bright. light.
FLASH: The following is an audio-visual collage of Kellyís perspective from throughout the film, coming back to us in a new order. THE CAGE OF SENATOR KELLY in Magnetoís lair. NOW HIS P.O.V. as seen by Xavier. Vision fades in and out in a sedated haze. He is laid out of a gurney.
FLASH: Kelly is looking around a large, sphered room. In the center is the MACHINE.
FLASH: The DOG TAG as it is elevated into the machine.
JARRING FLASH: KELLY ( V.O. )
BEAST: It appears as though Magneto has built a machine which somehow triggers the mutator gene in normal human beings. And he is using Adamantium as its Its core?
CYCLOPS: Its core?
BEAST: Thomas Edison knew how to make the light bulb. He had the energy source. He had the vacuum. But he didnít have the filament. He tried metal after metal but nothing would hold to power.
STORM: ( nods now understanding ) . until he found tungsten.
BEAST: Correct. Apparently, Adamantium is the only metal strong enough to hold the energy this machine produces. He used the Adamantium in Loganís dog tag to test it on the Senator. And I assume now he plans to use the rest of Loganís skeleton for a larger For what purpose?
CYCLOPS: For what purpose?
BEAST: Yes Only thereís a problem. The mutator gene is not responding to the radiation the way it would in mother nature. Itís forcing the bodyís cells to replicate thousands of times faster than theyíre accustomed to. The Senatorís body is literally burning itself out. Scott this machine kills people and I donít think Magneto realizes it.
CYCLOPS: So where do you think heís planning this larger demonstration?
XAVIER: He is looking at yet another report on Ellis Island. Cyclops and Jean walk over. All they see on the TV is an aerial shot of Manhattan, slowly coming around toward the The television image is from the P.O.V. of a helicopter circling Ellis Island, taking in all the security and construction. The grand main hall to Ellis Island and finally, what the helicopter sees as it comes around for one more pass. SUDDENLY - The sound of Kellyís heart monitor begins to PICK UP SPEED. Jean rushes to Kelly and touches his pale neck. She draws her hand back quickly as if burned. The heart monitor keeps speeding up until it is racing faster than a human heart could possibly produce. Jean backs away helplessly. The sheet that covers Kellyís body begins to flatten out. The sweat covering the hapless Senatorís body thickens into a viscous, clear liquid and begins to run off the table. Kelly is literally melting away. Cyclops holds Jean as she turns away. ANGLE ON: THE TV the gathering leaders of the world, the water clogged with boats, and the thousands of onlookers on Manhattan Island. All well within range.
BEAST: I wish I could go.
STORM: We all do.
BEAST: Storm. Try to look for the highest vantage point. From what I can figure, heíll need to gain as much altitude as possible to blanket the island. It is my feeling that Magneto has to
STORM: Beast looks at her.
CYCLOPS: You can still hear me. canít you. I want to thank you for taking me in. Taking us in. You have taught me everything in my life that is worth And I want you to know that Iíll take care of them.
CYCLOPS: Hey. Iím sorry. About Logan. I was Well, I think thatís perfectly Iíll tell you one thing though.
JEAN: ( putting her arms around him ) Well, I think thatís perfectly Iíll tell you one thing though.
CYCLOPS: Iíll tell you one thing though.
JEAN: Whatís that?
CYCLOPS: He calls me sport one more time, and Iíll blow a watermelon-sized hole through him. Now letís go get him.
NEWSCASTER: With the ceremonies beginning shortly, it looks as though the last of the dignitaries have landed at Newark and Teterboro airports and will be arriving momentarily. It would seem the United Nations has had their wish tonight. There doesnít seem to be an empty seat in the house.
CYCLOPS: Radar Stealth Mode checks out. All right, thereíll be less security north of the George Washington Bridge. Iím taking her down.
JEAN: Into the Hudson?
CYCLOPS: ( smiles )
CYCLOPS: V.T.O.L. off.
LOGAN: ( very weak ) Where am I?
MAGNETO: Youíre backstage at the encore of Three minutes to curtain.
LOGAN: What are you going to do?
MAGNETO: In the road to survival, there is always sacrifice Logan. We are the future. not them. We must protect ourselves. After tonight, when the leaders of the world return home They will return as brothers, as mutants. and our cause will be theirs. This is survival, I know you understand that, Logan. or is it
MAGNETO: Give me your tired, your poor. . Your huddled masses.
JEAN: ( points to the monitor ) The lights on the Statue of Liberty are off.
STORM: Beast said that he would have to take a high vantage point.
CYCLOPS: Letís dock over there. Storm, give us some cover.
OPERATION COMMANDER: Liberty One, Liberty One, this is Horizon, do you copy. Go, Horizon.
OPERATION COMMANDER: ( on radio ) Liberty, whatís the situation with the lights, over?
OPERATION COMMANDER: ( on radio ) Roger Liberty one. Horizon out.
MYSTIQUE: Darling. Weíre clear.
CYCLOPS: We should check out operations, see if the Secret Service is still around.
STORM: LOOK OUT.
CYCLOPS: Iím going to assume that means that the Secret Service is out of commission. Jean, can you raise me up Itís too far.
JEAN: Itís too far.
CYCLOPS: ( assessing the situation ) Storm, Rogue, you take the south ( pointing to the main Jean and I will go in here. ( to Storm and Rogue ) Iíll see you both soon.
MAGNETO: ( into radio ) Be careful everyone. I think we may have company.
STORM: ( whispering ) Rogue. run.
CYCLOPS: Over there.
CYCLOPS: Get down!
MAGNETO: Lights on.
OPERATION COMMANDER: Roger. We see the lights.
TOAD: Donít you people die?
CYCLOPS: Jean. Jean stop. Stop moving. Jean, trust me. Donít move.
BLACK: INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE THE MUSEUM - NIGHT Rogue turns the corner of the hallway and trips, tumbling to the ground. Rogue watches from the floor as the shadow of her pursuer bends around the corner. The sound of their footsteps get closer. The shadow is upon her, turning the corner. It is LOGAN.
LOGAN: I didnít mean to scare you.
ROGUE: Thank God. Logan. we have to help Storm we have to.
LOGAN: Iíll go back, but first let me find you a safe place. Here, take my hand. Take it!
MAGNETO: ( into radio ) Mystique. Mystique, where are you? Find Logan. ( whispering ) Jean. can you?
CYCLOPS: ( whispering ) Jean. can you?
JEAN: ( whispering ) Iím sorry. Iím not strong enough.
MAGNETO: ( whispering ) If the temperature changes a single ( looking at Jean ) I only need one hostage. ( raising his voice ) Now if you can hear me Logan.
MAGNETO: Here Xavierís life. If I get what I want, you can try and save him. for old times sake. Now. shall we talk about the
JEAN: Magneto. Iíve seen the results of your machine. Iíve seen Senator Ahhhh, so the good Senator survived his fall? And the swim to shore? He is stronger than I ever could have The experiment was a failure. Kelly didnít make it. Yes, you were successful in activating his mutator gene, but you failed to take into account the rest of his body it wasnít ready for the strain. Kelly was dead within hours. Your machine kills.
MAGNETO: Ahhhh, so the good Senator survived his fall? And the swim to shore? He is stronger than I ever could have The experiment was a failure. Kelly didnít make it. Yes, you were successful in activating his mutator gene, but you failed to take into account the rest of his body it wasnít ready for the strain. Kelly was dead within hours. Your machine kills.
JEAN: The experiment was a failure. Kelly didnít make it. Yes, you were successful in activating his mutator gene, but you failed to take into account the rest of his body it wasnít ready for the strain. Kelly was dead within hours. Your machine kills.
MAGNETO: Magneto pauses. Shock registering on his face that he could be wrong. Thinking. Considering what Jean is telling him. His mind races and calculates the possibility. Then:
JEAN: You donít understand.
CYCLOPS: ( yelling ) Stop it!
MAGNETO: Why canít you see what I am trying to do? Why do you stand in my way? Check and mate.
STORM: THREE METAL BAND peel off the ceiling, coming to life with magnetic energy. They leap across the room and wrap around Logan. Forcing his fists to press against his Should he so much as extend his claws, he will rupture his own vitals. The metal bands wrap behind his back. Magneto raises his hand and MAGNETIC WAVES RIPPLE. Metal groans as Magneto peels open a gaping hole in the top of Lady Libertyís head. Magneto looks up at the torch. The wind howls. The AIR RIPPLES again as Magneto levitates the steel bands holding Logan, lifting Logan off the ground and out the hole in the Statueís head.
MAGNETO: Ahh, there you are.
JEAN: ( to Mystique ) You have to stop him, the machine. it kills people. . Please do something.
MYSTIQUE: Donít listen to her. itís a trap.
MAGNETO: What is?
MYSTIQUE: This is.
JEAN: ROGUE, DESTROY THE MACHINE!
OPERATION COMMANDER: Liberty one this is Horizon. I repeat. do you copy? Liberty one this is Horizon . I repeat. do you
SABRETOOTH: ( whispering ) Your girlfriend is next.
SABRETOOTH: I donít think so.
CYCLOPS: Sabretooth lifts Jean by the neck and walks away from Cyclops as he chokes her.
SABRETOOTH: Sorry about this sweetheart, but I made Logan a promise.
SABRETOOTH: Logan grins.
LOGAN: Not just me.
BOOM!: A focused OPTIC BLAST hits Sabretooth like a FREIGHT TRAIN. He drops Jean and SLAMS THROUGH THE WALL.
ROGUE: Hey. There you are. Is it really you?
LOGAN: ( not quite sure what sheís Yeah, itís really me.
CYCLOPS: Come on, letís get out of here.
LOGAN: ( sliding to the ground ) Iím o.k. Iím o.k.
CYCLOPS: Sure you are, sport.
CYCLOPS: Quiet. Quiet everybody.
ANCHORMAN: This narrow defeat was probably due in large part to the surprising last- minute reversal by Senator Scott ìFrankî Kelly, who until today provided the loudest voice in the cry for Mutant Registration. Earlier today, Kelly had this to say:
KELLY: ( struggling to get through ) If we can not go into the future together, the divisions of fear and prejudice will tear this country
KELLY: No more questions. Please, no more
LOGAN: Donít you knock?
XAVIER: Theyíre all asking how youíre doing. Are you feeling up to saying hello to Actually Iím feeling up to leaving.
LOGAN: ( pulling the glove off ) Actually Iím feeling up to leaving.
XAVIER: ( surprised ) Why? You have a home here now, if you want it. Everyone will.
LOGAN: What?. miss me? Charley, Iím gonna walk out the front door and trust me, it wonít be soon enough for everyone Can I, umm?
XAVIER: Of course. Everything in this room is for you.
LOGAN: Thanks, Iíll pay you back.
XAVIER: Well if youíre going to leave then you at least owe them a goodbye.
LOGAN: Whatís a guy gotta do to get a beer around here?
MAGNETO: I wouldnít really have let you die, you know. I just needed.
XAVIER: ( interrupting ) I know.
MAGNETO: Doesnít it ever wake you in the middle of the night? The feeling that some day, some day very soon, they will pass that foolish law - or one just like it - and they will come for you and your children? Take you all away?
XAVIER: It does indeed, Max.
MAGNETO: And what do you do when you wake up to I feel a great swell of pity for the poor soul who comes to that school again looking for trouble. But you know that it is a war, old friend. And to win a war it takes the will to fight it at all costs, by any means necessary. And for that reason, I will always have the advantage. No matter how you trap me, how I am contained - - I will always find an escape.
XAVIER: I feel a great swell of pity for the poor soul who comes to that school again looking for trouble. But you know that it is a war, old friend. And to win a war it takes the will to fight it at all costs, by any means necessary. And for that reason, I will always have the advantage. No matter how you trap me, how I am contained - - I will always find an escape.
MAGNETO: But you know that it is a war, old friend. And to win a war it takes the will to fight it at all costs, by any means necessary. And for that reason, I will always have the advantage. No matter how you trap me, how I am contained - - I will always find an escape.
XAVIER: And I will always be there, old
MAGNETO: And mate.
BLACK: Writers : Ed Solomon Christopher McQuarrie Tom DeSanto Bryan Singer
