GILMAN: Kid didn't even move. You see that? Where's your survival instincts, The boy says nothing. He readjusts his bookbag and resumes his long walk northward. GILMAN ( cont'd ) Gilman grabs the boy's shoulder and spins him around- GILMAN ( cont'd ) The hell you going? You hear me talking to you? One of the other football players, MASON, walks over and inspects the boy's face.
MASON: This is the kid whose old man robbed the truck stop last year. Gilman curls his meaty hand around the back of the boy's neck and pulls him closer, scrutinizing him. The four lettermen tower over the small boy. I C_ONTTNTT f 1
GILMAN: You the one with the convict daddy? The boy stares back at Gilman, unblinking.
MASON: That's him.
GILMAN: What's the matter, you about to piss your pants? Answer me. The boy says nothing, never looking away from the bully. Gilman presses his fist, adorned with a heavy class ring, against the.boy's cheek. GILMAN ( cont'd ) You a tough guy like your daddy? Gilman shoves the boy, forcing him to stumble backwards. The boy regains his balance, never taking his eyes off Gilman. GILMAN ( cont'd ) You want to play tough guy with me? Provoked by the boy's lack of fear, by the insolence of his stare, Gilman rears back and punches him in the face. The boy falls to the ground. Blood spills from a gash in his cheek where the class ring cut him.
MASON: ( a ringside announcer ) Right cross to the face. and he's The football players laugh, looking down at the fallen boy. The boy stands. There is still no sign of emotion on his face. No fear, no anger, no evident pain.
GILMAN: What's the matter? You want some The boy doesn't look away. The bully swings, cracking the boy in the side of the head, knocking him down again. GILMAN ( cont'd ) ( to his friends ) Let's get out of here.
MASON: You gave that little pissant something to think about. Gilman grins and looks back at the boy, expecting him to be sprawled and crying on the ground. Instead the boy stands again, brushes the dirt off his shirt, and walks toward Gilman.
GILMAN: You got to be kidding me. I'm gonna knock the But Gilman's words die in his throat as he sees something impossible happening. The gash on the boy's cheek knits itself shut, leaving no sign of injury. Gilman is so shocked he doesn't see the boy's fist whizzing toward him, striking him in the nose. And then another punch. And then another. The boy is far smaller and weaker than Gilman, but he fights with a ferocity that seems inhuman, punching and kicking and headbutting, doing whatever it takes to fell his enemy. Gilman, stunned by the intensity of the assault, goes down, trying to protect his face from the blur of blows. Mason tries to pull the boy off his friend and suffers a bite to the hand. He howls with pain and backs off. The other two football players, amazed to see their leader getting pummeled by a boy half his size, watch in awe. The boy growls as he batters the bully. He grabs Gilman's collar and lifts the football player's head off the ground, prepared to deliver the coup de grace with his right fist. Three bone claws spring from the boy's hand, serrated and razor sharp. Everything stops. Mason, clutching his wounded hand, quits hollering and stares. The other two football players blink and slowly back away. Even Gilman, moaning on the ground, hushes and tries to crawl backwards, away from this beast on top of him.
KAYLA: It's okay. shh. it's okay. Logan pants, chest heaving, eyes wild, gripping the tattered sheets in his fists. Kayla holds him tight until his bone claws retract. KAYLA ( cont'd ) I'm right here with you. Okay? I'm right here with you. Kayla, a full-blooded Innu, wears her long black hair pulled back in a ponytail. She's been sleeping in one of Logan's flannel shirts. KAYLA ( cont'd ) The war dreams or the one where you're a kid? Logan takes a deep breath, finally calming down. He relaxes into Kayla's arms.
LOGAN: The one where I'm a kid. Kayla runs her fingers through his thick hair, kissing his forehead. He sees that she has a small cut on her forearm. He takes her arm and looks at the wound.
KAYLA: It's nothing. Just a scratch. She kisses him. KAYLA ( cont'd ) We need new sheets again, baby.
CARNY BARKER: Come see the notorious Bird Man! Half-man, half-eagle, is he an angel from Heaven or a spawn of Satan? Ladies and gentlemen, tonight is your last chance to see the creature you've all been hearing about: We follow two BOYS who hand the barker their tickets, pull aside the curtain and step into the sideshow.
SHERRLENE: I'm gonna knock with three.
BEAK: Are you kidding me? He throws down his hand in disgust.
SHERRLENE: You always hold out for gin. You could have knocked a while ago.
BEAK: Yeah, well, I'm an eternal. Sherrlene tallies the points.
SHERRLENE: All right, I'm gonna hit it. You want to come look for shells with me on the beach tomorrow?
BEAK: I don't want to scare away any Aw, sweetie, it's winter. No tourists. I'll come get you in the ( rr )NTTNTrJ r ) 1
SHERRLENE: Aw, sweetie, it's winter. No tourists. I'll come get you in the ( rr )NTTNTrJ r ) 1
BEAK: Goodnight, Sherrlene.
SHERRLENE: Night, Beak. Sweet dreams. Sherrlene closes the door behind her and Beak flips through the deck of cards, preparing for another lonely night. A knock on the door.
BEAK: You forget your purse? ( another knock ) All right, all right, I'm coming. He stands and opens the door.
BEAK: Show's over, pal. VICTOR CREED is shrouded in shadows, but when he grins his white fangs gleam. He drapes his arm around Beak and drags the birdman inside the trailer.
VICTOR CREED: Show's never over for you, freak..
BEAK: You want money? There's twenty bucks on the dresser. That's all I
HAVE: VICTOR CREED I just want to hear you talk a minute before I cut your lungs out. Creed shoves Beak back into his seat, picks up the bottle of bourbon, examines the label, and guzzles it. Beak opens his mouth but no words come out. Finally:
VICTOR CREED: I just want to hear you talk a minute before I cut your lungs out. Creed shoves Beak back into his seat, picks up the bottle of bourbon, examines the label, and guzzles it. Beak opens his mouth but no words come out. Finally:
( RONTTNTIED: You're the one that's been killing Creed wipes his lips with the back of his clawed hand. BEAK ( cont'd ) But you. you're one of us.
BEAK: You're the one that's been killing Creed wipes his lips with the back of his clawed hand. BEAK ( cont'd ) But you. you're one of us.
VICTOR CREED: Us? There's no us. There's you and there's me, and in a minute, just Creed smiles down at his feathered target. Beak tries to shield his body with his wings.
BEAK: Please. I never hurt anybody, my whole life.
VICTOR CREED: Let me show you how it's done.
STRYKER: ( SMILING ) I even showered today. Logan turns, the axe gripped in his hand. STRYKER ( cont'd ) Been a long time, Logan. You haven't aged a day. Everyone else gets old and gray, but not you.
LOGAN: How'd you find me?
STRYKER: We never lost you, my friend. I believe you know my colleague? Logan and Agent Zero stare at each other. There is a history between these two and clearly the memories are not fond. STRYKER ( cont'd ) We're with the Department of Agriculture now.
LOGAN: Agriculture? You working with Agent Zero grins. There is nothing pleasant about his grin,.
AGENT ZERO: Pest Control Division. Working with ( puffing on his cigar ) Still shooting first, asking questions later? In one blindingly fast motion, Agent Zero pulls a customized automatic from his shoulder holster, fires, and reholsters.
LOGAN: ( puffing on his cigar ) Still shooting first, asking questions later? In one blindingly fast motion, Agent Zero pulls a customized automatic from his shoulder holster, fires, and reholsters.
AGENT ZERO: Still smoking cheap cigars? Logan spits the butt of the severed cigar from his mouth and clenches his fists.
LOGAN: That was a buck twenty-five, Stryker holds up both hands, one palm to Logan, one to Zero.
STRYKER: Boys, please. ( to Logan ) Could we take a minute of your You're taking it.
LOGAN: You're taking it.
STRYKER: We want you back. Logan turns away from them. He tosses aside the axe, picks up a load of firewood and . stacks. it beside the cabin. STRYKER ( cont'd ) You're a born warrior. You can hide up here as long as you want, that's never gonna change.
LOGAN: Not interested.
STRYKER: It's. creative work, I can assure you of that. And it pays well.
LOGAN: Already got a job.
AGENT ZERO: Lumberjack. Eighteen grand a.year.
LOGAN: Eighteen five.
AGENT ZERO: You content chopping down trees?
LOGAN: Yeah, I am. It's good work. And I haven't killed anybody in three AGENT ZERO Starting to miss it?
AGENT ZERO: Starting to miss it?
LOGAN: Right about now I am. Agent Zero grins, enjoying the game. Stryker, seeing that this is going badly, tries to break the tension.
STRYKER: We're putting together a team. Best men in the business. Men with. special qualities. Men like you.
LOGAN: Forget it. Logan walks around to the front of the cabin. Stryker and Agent Zero follow. Logan's battered old pickup truck is parked beside the newcomers' Lincoln.
STRYKER: It's a team of hunters. We're going after some very bad people. Logan climbs into the driver's seat. STRYKER ( cont'd ) You read the papers, Logan? They're killing mutants. Logan closes the door, turns the key and revs the engine to warm it. Stryker taps on the window. Logan grits his teeth and rolls down the window, not looking at the colonel. STRYKER ( cont'd ) Listen to me. They have names. They have addresses.
LOGAN: I can take care of myself.
STRYKER: All right, forget about yourself. Your country needs you.
LOGAN: I'm Canadian. He hits the gas, forcing Stryker to jump back lest the tires run over his foot. Stryker and Agent Zero watch him go.
FOURTH GRADERS: Get him! Logan jumps back around the corner, out of sight. The fourth graders chase after him, round the corner with their throwing hands cocked, ready to launch some serious ice. Logan is nowhere in sight. The fourth graders turn in confused circles, searching for their target, snowballs melting in their hands.
KAYLA: Logan, caught with a snowball in his hand, looks sheepish.
LOGAN: They started it.
LOGAN: Stryker came by the house today.
KAYLA: Stryker? Colonel Stryker? The one you told me about? ( off Logan's nod ) What did he want?
LOGAN: Wants me back.
KAYLA: Told him no.
LOGAN: Told him no.
KAYLA: So why can't they get someone else? Logan thinks about it for a moment. When he speaks there is a degree of self-loathing in his tone.
LOGAN: I'm the best there is at what I do. And what I do best isn't very nice. Kayla studies the side of his face for a moment. LOGAN ( cont'd ) Maybe he's right. Maybe it's the only thing I'm good for. Kayla watches him. Logan shakes his head as if ridding himself of an errant thought. LOGAN ( cont'd ) Son of a bitch had me thinking about it for a minute. He wraps his arm around her shoulders and pulls her closer. f CONTTN11Fn1
KAYLA: Hey. You're not a freak.
LOGAN: Most guys don't have to worry about gutting their girlfriend when they have a bad dream.
KAYLA: You're not a freak. You've got a A gift? Logan shakes his head, staring at the black ribbon of road. LOGAN ( cont'd ) You can return a gift..
LOGAN: A gift? Logan shakes his head, staring at the black ribbon of road. LOGAN ( cont'd ) You can return a gift..
KAYLA: The kids made cornhusk dolls today in Arts and Crafts. She reaches for her bag and pulls out a little doll. KAYLA ( cont'd ) I made one for you. Kayla hands him the doll and he examines it by firelight. Given the limitations of the art form, it's a skillful representation of Logan, unique hairstyle and all.
LOGAN: I look like Elvis.
KAYLA: You're Elvis with claws. The moon, swollen and red-hued, rises above the dark hills, framed in the cabin's window. I coNTTNTTRn 1
LOGAN: Full moon tomorrow.
KAYLA: You know why the moon's so lonely? Logan shakes his head. Kayla lies back, resting her head on Logan's leg as he plays with her hair. KAYLA ( cont'd ) She used to have a lover. Kuekuatsheu. They lived in the Spirit World and every night they'd wander the skies together. But one of the other spirits was jealous. Trickster wanted the Moon for himself. So he told Kuekuatsheu the Moon asked for flowers. He told him to come to our world and pick her some wild roses.
LOGAN: Never trust a guy named Trickster.
KAYLA: Yeah, well, you do some stupid things when you're in love. Kuekuatsheu didn't know that once you leave the Spirit World, you can never go back. Now he's trapped here. Every night the Moon searches for him and every night he sees her in the sky and howls her name. but he can never touch her again. For a moment they're both quiet, contemplating the sad myth.
LOGAN: Koo-koo-choo got screwed.
KAYLA: Kuekuatsheu. The Wolverine.
KAYLA: Be careful. Logan bends forward to kiss her on the lips. He turns and walks towards a crew of LUMBERJACKS circled around a SUPERVISOR with a clipboard. Logan turns when he hears a honk. Kayla leans out the window. KAYLA ( cont'd ) I love you, by the way. Logan notices that dozens of lumberjacks are watching this scene. He clears his throat.
LOGAN: T love you, too.
SUPERVISOR: ( thick Maine accent ) We all love you, Casanova, but could we get to work here? We need to let some daylight in the swamp. The lumberjacks laugh loudly. Damage done, Kayla waves a cheerful goodbye and drives away from the camp. Logan trudges into the circle of lumberjacks, who make kissie- kissie sounds and slap his shoulder. SUPERVISOR ( cont'd ) All right, I need a team of choppers for 3B, that's gonna be Phelan, Marcuse, Van Mier and Logan. Two teams for 3C.
FOREMAN: Can't move the truck till the load's tied down.
KAYLA: Please? I'm already late.
FOREMAN: Not gonna happen, ma'am. The foreman thinks about it, sighs, and changes his tune. FOREMAN ( cont'd ) ( yelling to truck driver ) Hey Zeke! Pull this mother over. Lady's got to get through. Moments later the truck rolls forward, enabling Kayla to scoot through in her pickup. She toots her horn and waves.
KAYLA: Thanks, fellas.
PHELAN: You all want to ease the pace a little bit? Trees ain't going Logan, in the lead, stares at a crude smiley face carved into a tall pine tree. His gaze travels from the carving to something sitting on the forest floor. ( CON'TNt1F.n I
VAN MIER: Why would a hunter leave the head?
MARCUSE: Why would a hunter leave the head?
LOGAN: Bullet didn't kill this bear.
KAYLA: Lolly Lolly Lolly get your adverbs here, Lolly Lolly Lolly got some adverbs here, Come on down to Lolly's get the adverbs here. Rounding a corner on the narrow access road, Kayla nearly collides with a man in a long black coat. She slams on the brakes and the truck shudders to a halt. The man's back is turned to the truck, his head bowed. His hair hangs below his shoulders, clotted with dirt, as if he's been sleeping in the woods for weeks. Kayla leans out of the open truck window. Before she can speak, the man in the long black coat turns. It's not just his size that frightens us, though the man is massive. It's not just the four-inch-long black talons curling from his fingertips, or the gleaming fangs he licks as he smiles at her. What terrifies us most are his eyes. They are a shark's eyes, black and loveless and utterly inhuman. f CONTTNT1FD'
PHELAN: What's the matter Logan holds up a hand: quiet. He hears a distant scream. A. voice he knows better than any other. He runs, leaving his astonished co-workers behind. No one can run through the woods faster than Logan and'Logan has never needed to run faster. He vaults fallen trees, ducks under branches, accelerates when he hits the access road.
LOGAN: Come on, you're okay. Say something. Say something, darling. Say something. Kayla, come on. He cradles her in his arms. LOGAN ( cont'd ) You're okay. You're okay.
( CONTTNTTRN': He rocks back and forth, her lifeless body clutched tightly in his arms, his eyes clenched shut. The veins bulge in his neck, every muscle in his body tenses, as if there were a beast inside him trying to break free of his skin.
VICTOR CREED: Stuff don't work on me. I drink and drink and I never feel any He downs the full glass of whiskey with a swallow. He looks around the bar, at the pool table in the back, the Wurlitzer jukebox, the stacked bottles of liquor. VICTOR CREED ( cont'd ) You got any insurance on this Insurance? I guess so. Why? Creed wipes his mouth with the back of his hand.
BARTENDER: Insurance? I guess so. Why? Creed wipes his mouth with the back of his hand.
VICTOR CREED: 'Cause it's about to get ugly. Logan walks into the tavern, sniffing the air. He sees Creed sitting on the barstool, back to the door.
I: With no room to dodge, Logan drives his head forward, smashing Creed's face with a glorious headbutt.
I: As Creed staggers back, Logan kicks him in the chest, knocking the big man over the bar, where he crashes into the bottles of liquor and slides to the floor in a tumult of glass shards and alcohol. Logan sees a lit cigarette in an ashtray on one of the tables. He picks the butt up and flicks it over the bar. The cigarette ignites the spilt alcohol. Creed roars and rises to his feet, a burning man. He vaults over the bar and advances on Logan. The flames consume his overcoat, licking at his skin. Creed slaps them out with his palms, apparently oblivious to the pain. VICTOR CREED ( cont'd ) You put up a better fight than your girl did. Creed snatches Logan and slings him headfirst through the plate glass window.
VICTOR CREED: Time you got declawed, kitty kat. Creed lifts his heavy black boot and brings it down hard on the extended claws of Logan's left hand.
SURGEON: We know what we're looking at?
SURGEON: What is this? ( CO749TNnFn )
LOGAN: Where is he?
LOGAN: Where is he?
STRYKER: He escaped from an ultramax penitentiary in Nevada last year. Started murdering mutants. Shape- changer in New Mexico, pair of telekinetic twins in California Logan turns on Stryker, grabbing the colonel by the throat and shoving him against a lamp post.
LOGAN: Three years I been here. Three years everything's good. Nobody knows me. And then one day you show up and the next day she's dead.
STRYKER: I came to warn you
LOGAN: You knew he was coming. f CONTTNfJRD 1
STRYKER: He got the List.
LOGAN: What list? Stryker chokes, gasping for air. Logan eases up on his grip but doesn't release the man. Stryker takes a deep breath.
STRYKER: The List. Every known mutant in North America. Government's been keeping it for years. Names, addresses, everything.
LOGAN: How did he get it?
STRYKER: Someone must have leaked it to him. There are people in Washington who want to see you all destroyed. Logan releases Stryker. The ex-colonel straightens his jacket collar and composes himself.
LOGAN: Creed's a mutant, too.
STRYKER: Apparently he doesn't have much tribal loyalty. Logan turns and walks away. He looks like a homeless man, his clothes torn and bloodied, his hair disheveled. He walks fast. Stryker calls after him. STRYKER ( cont'd ) Do you have a plan, Captain?
LOGAN: I'm not in the Army anymore.
STRYKER: Do you have a plan? CnNTTNT TF.Tf 1
LOGAN: I'm gonna track him down and I'm gonna end him. That's the plan.
I: You already tried that. He's a hundred miles away and you're walking out of the hospital. Logan's fists are clenched. He's ready to hammer Stryker into the ground, but the older man does not back down. STRYKER ( cont'd ) You can't beat him. Not the way you are right now. You've probably gone your whole life without losing a fight, but I'm telling you now, you can't beat him.
STRYKER: You already tried that. He's a hundred miles away and you're walking out of the hospital. Logan's fists are clenched. He's ready to hammer Stryker into the ground, but the older man does not back down. STRYKER ( cont'd ) You can't beat him. Not the way you are right now. You've probably gone your whole life without losing a fight, but I'm telling you now, you can't beat him.
STRYKER: Could you unsheath your claws? Logan raises his left hand. The bone claws pop out, the same length they were before Creed shattered them. STRYKER ( cont'd ) Remarkable. Full regeneration. Logan examines the markings on his forearm.
LOGAN: The hell you planning on doing to Hines gives Stryker a worried look but he ignores her.
STRYKER: We're going to make you indestructible. But first we have to destroy you. Stryker heads for the door but stops midway and turns. STRYKER ( cont'd ) I forgot to give you something. He reaches into his jacket pocket, pulls out an old set of dog tags and tosses them to Logan. Logan inspects the tags with ambivalence.
LOGAN: Never wanted to put these on again.
STRYKER: Held on to them for years. Figured you'd be back one day. Logan slips the steel chain over his head. STRYKER ( cont'd )
HINES: Stryker stops and waits.for her to catch up. HINES ( cont'd ) I know we've discussed this before He knows what she's going to say. He shakes his head and continues down the hallway, forcing Hines to chase after him.
STRYKER: Ad nauseam, Lieutenant.
HINES: Anesthetic won't work on him. His healing factor neutralizes drugs. Including painkillers.
STRYKER: He can handle the pain.
HINES: We've never conducted any animal
TESTING: No other animal would survive the INT. SURGICAL PREP ROOM - CONTINUOUS Logan, wearing a hospital-style robe, stands by the closed door. No other human could hear the conversation down the hallway. Logan catches every word.
STRYKER: No other animal would survive the INT. SURGICAL PREP ROOM - CONTINUOUS Logan, wearing a hospital-style robe, stands by the closed door. No other human could hear the conversation down the hallway. Logan catches every word.
STRYKER: The man's well-being is not my concern. Proving that the science works that's what matters. Hines does not relish confrontation and she's afraid of Stryker. But she gives it one more try.
HINES: Sir. I took the Hippocratic Oath. I swore I'd never intentionally harm another human being. Stryker turns on Hines, jabbing his finger at her.
STRYKER: You also swore. to protect your nation. You remember that oath, Lieutenant Hines?
HINES: Yes sir, but I don't understand why-
STRYKER: I don't need you to understand. I need you to follow orders. Stryker continues down the corridor, leaving Hines standing alone in the fluorescent light.
LOGAN: You ready for me, Doc?
LOGAN: See you on'the other side. One of the technicians fastens a breathing tube, connected to an oxygen tank, to Logan's mouth. Logan lies down, submerging himself in the cold water. The technician clamps Logan's wrists and ankles into place with stainless-steel shackles bolted to the plexiglass walls. Logan's eyes are open as he watches the robotic arms swivel into place, poised above him like a gang of metal vipers.
CORNELIUS: Adamantium temperature?
TECHNICIAN #1: Steady at eighty-two eleven.
CORNELIUS: Feed lines clear?
TECHNICIAN #2: Lines one through twelve clear.
CORNELIUS: Prepare insertion.
CORNELIUS: Commence feed. The technicians enter commands, watching close-up images of the procedure on their monitors.
STRYKER: You're witnessing medical history in the making. We've begun bonding adamantium to Weapon X's skeleton.
STRYKER: It took us three years to prepare enough alloy for the skeleton.
GENERAL MUNSON: So if this works, I guess Weapon X won't be walking through any metal If this works, General, Weapon X will walk wherever he wants.
STRYKER: If this works, General, Weapon X will walk wherever he wants.
GENERAL MUNSON: How long before he's mission Remains to be seen. We're in uncharted territory here.
STRYKER: Remains to be seen. We're in uncharted territory here.
GENERAL MUNSON: Uncharted territory is a pretty good description of your budget, Colonel. This doesn't work, you can kiss the Eleven good-bye.
STRYKER: We need the Eleven. Our victory in the war to come depends on it.
GENERAL MUNSON: Not everyone in the Pentagon thinks there's gonna be a war. Stryker turns and fixes his gaze on the general.
STRYKER: Oh, it's coming, General. The enemy walks among us. We'd better be INT. SURGICAL THEATER - CONTINUOUS Logan thrashes in the tank, his convulsions increasingly violent, his eyes rolling back in their sockets. The water in the tank begins to steam. The reel of blood-stained images from Logan's past continues. A bull-necked man beats the feral boy with an axe handle.
GENERAL MUNSON: Is there a problem? Stryker allows himself a small smile.
STRYKER: On the contrary. The probe is diamond-tipped. It's not hard enough to penetrate adamantium.
HINES: Heart rate two twenty five. Sir, we're well beyond maximum
STRYKER: You're trained to care for humans, Doctor. Weapon X is not one of us.
STRYKER: Easy now.
STRYKER: INT. SURGICAL THEATER - CONTINUOUS Logan slashes through the locks of the steel-reinforced theater door. He charges out of the room.
GENERAL MUNSON: I take it this is still part of the plan, Colonel?
STRYKER: He's got nowhere to run. Closed circuit monitors show Logan running down a tunnel. STRYKER ( cont'd ) The only exit is a 25 ton blast door. It was built to withstand a nuclear detonation.
STRYKER: ( to Agent Zero ) Alert the containment team. Bring him back. ( ( r )NTTNTJF.J ) )
AGENT ZERO: Bagged or breathing?
STRYKER: Either way. Just bring him back.
SOLDIER #1: Put your hands in the air!
STRYKER: These soldiers are the creme de la creme. They're equipped to handle the situation.
SOLDIER #1: Hands in the air, now! Logan charges at the soldiers. The soldiers fire their weapons. These are not rifles but high-powered Tasers. Twelve darts sink into Logan's skin, each connected to a silvery wire. Thousands of volts of electricity course through Logan's ( fC )NTTNIJF.n
HINES: The creme de la creme just got Stryker gives her a very nasty look before turning to General Munson and speaking in calming tones.
STRYKER: There's a high-voltage fence on the perimeter of the base
GENERAL MUNSON: Is it made out of adamantium?
HEATHER HUDSON: Marge'll probably make her walnut pie again. I thought I'd do meringues this year. Try something different. Don't you think?
JAMES HUDSON: HEATHER HUDSON You like my meringues, don't you?
HEATHER HUDSON: You like my meringues, don't you?
JAMES HUDSON: ( ( Y )NTTN!JRr 1
HEATHER HUDSON: ( GOOD-HUMORED ) Yep. Yep. Forty years of conversation, all I get is yeps. Heather grabs her husband's arm. HEATHER HUDSON ( cont'd ) James turns in time to see a naked man sprint across the snow and slip inside a red sheep barn. HEATHER HUDSON ( cont'd ) I think there's a naked man in the JAMES HUDSON INT. SHEEP BARN - DAY James Hudson cautiously slides his barn door open. He holds an old shotgun in his hands, a gun he hasn't fired in years. He advances slowly into the barn, sunlight from the open door falling on the scattered straw. A vintage motorcycle covered in a tarp stands near the side wall. Hudson looks inside each sheep pen. His thick-wooled SHEEP, ready for breakfast, bleat hopefully. In the third pen Hudson finds Logan, who has covered himself with straw. A few curious sheep sniff at the fugitive's face. Hudson stares at Logan, who stares back somewhat, well, JAMES HUDSON Son. What in hell are you doing?
JAMES HUDSON: INT. SHEEP BARN - DAY James Hudson cautiously slides his barn door open. He holds an old shotgun in his hands, a gun he hasn't fired in years. He advances slowly into the barn, sunlight from the open door falling on the scattered straw. A vintage motorcycle covered in a tarp stands near the side wall. Hudson looks inside each sheep pen. His thick-wooled SHEEP, ready for breakfast, bleat hopefully. In the third pen Hudson finds Logan, who has covered himself with straw. A few curious sheep sniff at the fugitive's face. Hudson stares at Logan, who stares back somewhat, well, JAMES HUDSON Son. What in hell are you doing?
JAMES HUDSON: Son. What in hell are you doing?
LOGAN: Sorry. It's a little cold out JAMES HUDSON Uh huh. It's the middle of January and you got no clothes on.
JAMES HUDSON: Uh huh. It's the middle of January and you got no clothes on.
LOGAN: That's probably it.
JAMES HUDSON: You're not on the drugs, are you?
LOGAN: No sir.
JAMES HUDSON: Just had a rough night?
LOGAN: Pretty rough, yeah.
JAMES HUDSON: All right, come on. I got some old clothes'll probably fit you. He turns and Logan begins covering strategic places with wads of straw. JAMES HUDSON ( cont'd ) I'll take you around back so my wife don't see you again.
LOGAN: Sorry if I scared her.
JAMES HUDSON: Scared her?
JAMES HUDSON: You mind if I ask where you came running from? r( )NTTNITF.n )
HEATHER HUDSON: Jimmy. Let the boy eat. Logan piles eggs onto a slice of buttered toast.
JAMES HUDSON: I'm just wondering. We're twenty miles from town. It's a miracle you didn't get hypothermia out there.
LOGAN: I've got good circulation. ( gesturing toward barn ) Nice chopper you got out there, by the way. James's face lights up. Logan has found the man's passion.,
JAMES HUDSON: You know motorcycles?
LOGAN: What is it, '48 Panhead?
JAMES HUDSON: Best bike Harley-Davidson ever made. First one with a seventy-four- cubic inch engine, hydraulic valve lifters, aluminum heads Heather stands to clear the plates.
HEATHER HUDSON: Now you've got him started. You need more of anything? Logan, smiling, holds up his hands to surrender. The smile fades when he sees the red laser dot appear on Heather's shirt. HEATHER HUDSON ( cont'd ) What's the matter, honey? Logan dives across the table, trying to knock her out of the way, but the bullet beats him there, punching through the window frame and straight through Heather Hudson's heart. She collapses in Logan's arms.
JAMES HUDSON: ( CONTTNIWIF 1 CONTINUED: ( 2 ) GET DOWN! But it's too late. A second bullet hits James in the back; the farmer blinks and topples forward, dead before he hits -the ground.
WHAT: ( CONTTNIWIF 1 CONTINUED: ( 2 ) GET DOWN! But it's too late. A second bullet hits James in the back; the farmer blinks and topples forward, dead before he hits -the ground.
LOGAN: GET DOWN! But it's too late. A second bullet hits James in the back; the farmer blinks and topples forward, dead before he hits -the ground.
GET DOWN!: But it's too late. A second bullet hits James in the back; the farmer blinks and topples forward, dead before he hits -the ground.
AGENT ZERO: Weapon X is in the farmhouse. He just murdered.two civilians.. Fire at will. An APACHE LONGBOW helicopter streaks overhead, fifty feet above the ground.
GUNNER: Direct hit.
AGENT ZERO: Locate the target and fire again.
GUNNER: Sir. the target's destroyed.
GUNNER: They must've hated this guy big t C'_C?NTTNTTRI )1
PILOT: What was he, terrorist or I don't know but he's a puddle now.
GUNNER: I don't know but he's a puddle now.
PILOT: Logan raises his right hand and plunges his claws through the bulletproof glass.
AGENT ZERO: Your boy just took down fifty million dollars worth of hardware. Guess I got to do this myself.
STRYKER: ( on headset ) Negative. Come back to base.
STRYKER: You don't have the weaponry.
AGENT ZERO: Don't care what kind of bones he's got. Fifty caliber bullet through his eyeball ought to do it.
AGENT ZERO: I'm losing you, boss. Agent Zero clicks off his headset and.raises the sniper rifle, searching through the smoke with his scope. AGENT ZERO ( cont'd ) ( muttering to himself ) Come out and play.
LOGAN: Those were good people back there. Innocent people. Agent Zero surreptitiously pulls a commando knife from a sheath on his ankle.
AGENT ZERO: You ever notice good people tend to die when they spend time with you? He swings the knife at the side of Logan's neck.`Logan catches Agent Zero's wrist and slams it against the door Agent Zero drops the knife with a pained smile. He didn't think that would work. AGENT ZERO ( cont'd ) Maybe you should stick with the bad people. We're more your speed.
LOGAN: I got a message for your boss.
AGENT ZERO: ( SMIRKING ) Yeah? Tell me. The smirk fades from Zero's face as he sees the adamantium claws plunging toward his heart.
LOGAN: Get me the Pest Control Division.
LOGAN: Why don't you get 'em anyway. And tell 'em Logan's calling. While he waits he watches one of the kids attempt a backside tailslide on the curb. The kid loses his balance and wipes out, skinning his palms on the asphalt.
LOGAN: ( controlled fury ) You shouldn't have killed those people. All they were doing was helping a stranger.
STRYKER: You ran on me, goddamnit. We had a deal. Now you get back to base
LOGAN: They had nothing to do with this. You let that mad dog gun 'em down like they were animals.
STRYKER: I'm giving you an order, soldier! Return tobase
LOGAN: Had enough orders for one lifetime.
STRYKER: We're bringing you in. One way or another, we're bringing you in. Logan bows his head, considering his next words.
LOGAN: People like you are always waiting for the next war. You start one with me, Colonel, you better sleep with the lights on. He hangs up the phone and walks to his bike. The skateboard punks give him a wide berth.
FRANCIS: She did what? Ninna, that wasn't very nice. He gives one of the female lemurs an admonishing look. She shrieks and dances away, biscuit held to her chest. FRANCIS ( cont'd ) You must have done something to deserve it, Myrto. Oh, you bit her? Why? Haven't we talked about this? The lemurs all quiet down at the same time. Francis watches them. Something is wrong. The lemurs flee, ducking into holes in the baobab trees, hiding from whatever's coming. Francis frowns and turns. Victor Creed stands above him.
VICTOR CREED: Everyone thinks you're a lunatic, talking to animals. But I know you're not, Francis. You understand them, don't you? That's your power. Francis looks for help but there is no one in sight. VICTOR CREED ( cont'd ) What do they tell you? Francis is quiet for a few seconds, staring at the killer.
FRANCIS: Nothing very fancy. They tell me when they're scared. When they're angry. When they're hungry.
VICTOR CREED: You ever talk to a panther, Francis shakes his head. CONTTNi7Ff )1
FRANCIS: There are no mistakes. We're all part of the plan. We're all God's Creed grins, licking his sharp fangs.
VICTOR CREED: I don't know who my Daddy was, but it sure as Hell wasn't God. Francis bows his head.
FRANCIS: I'm not afraid of dying. Creed runs one long claw across Francis's cheek.
VICTOR CREED: How do you know? You've never done it before.
LOGAN: You're way out of my league, LADY OF THE NIGHT You never know. You looking for a good time with a bad woman? Logan smiles and shakes his head.
LOGAN: Not tonight. The redhead purses her lips.
LOGAN: I know exactly what I'm missing. off into the night -
WRAITH: This is a contact sport, ladies. If you don't like hitting people, try Logan comes up behind Wraith, unseen by the Texan..
LOGAN: You talk tough for a guy who always let me do the dirty work. A slow smile creases Wraith's face. He turns.
WRAITH: Look at this. You never get old, do The two men'embrace. There is genuine affection here, the camaraderie of men who have fought together, bled together. WRAITH ( cont'd ) Nobody followed you?
LOGAN: You tryin' to insult me?
WRAITH: Can't be too careful, brother. I've been retired five years I still check under the car every time I I'm looking for Victor Creed. Wraith's face goes serious at the mention of the name. He looks around the gym, making sure no one's watching them. He glances at the boxers in the ring, who lean on the ropes and breathe heavily, awaiting instructions.
LOGAN: I'm looking for Victor Creed. Wraith's face goes serious at the mention of the name. He looks around the gym, making sure no one's watching them. He glances at the boxers in the ring, who lean on the ropes and breathe heavily, awaiting instructions.
WRAITH: Why don't you two get a manicure or something and meet me back here in the morning. ( to Logan ) Want a beer?
LOGAN: ( C_ONTTNTTF.T )' CONTINUED: ( 2 ) Wraith leads Logan toward an office in the back, draping an arm around his shoulders.
WRAITH: I love you like a brother. So I'm giving you thirty minutes. After that, you're too dangerous to know.
WRAITH: What I hear, our friend the Colonel's got eyes all over the country looking for you. He ain't about to let Weapon X go rogue on Wraith pops the caps off the beer bottles and hands one to What's Weapon X? They tap glass.
LOGAN: What's Weapon X? They tap glass.
WRAITH: You are. A walking, talking, hundred-million dollar experiment.
LOGAN: You know about it. Wraith sits behind his desk and puts his boots up. Logan sits across from him.
WRAITH: I keep my ear to the ground. People like us, we never really quit the I did. Woke up one day and knew I was done. Logan peels the label from his bottle of beer. f CONTTNTTFT ) )
LOGAN: I did. Woke up one day and knew I was done. Logan peels the label from his bottle of beer. f CONTTNTTFT ) )
WRAITH: Our friend the Colonel has big What kind of plans?
LOGAN: What kind of plans?
WRAITH: Hear a lot of chatter about something called the Eleven. My boys in Arlington say it's the biggest covert weapons project since FDR built himself an atom bomb. Other than that, no one knows a goddamn thing. Wraith places his bottle on his desk and sits up straight in his chair. WRAITH ( cont'd ) Look, I. I heard about what happened to your woman. For what it's worth, I'm sorry. Logan nods. He doesn't want to talk about it. WRAITH ( cont'd ) I did a little contract work with Creed back in the day. I've known some seriously foul people, but that cat. They say he took out a whole village in Nicaragua one time, every man, woman, and child, killed 'em all, just 'cause he was ( BEAT ) I been screwed, sued, and tattooed, but I never killed no kids.
LOGAN: Creed did government work?
WRAITH: Till they got wise to him. Wherever he went there was a trail of bodies. And not always the right bodies, you know what I'm saying? There is murder in Logan's eyes.
LOGAN: Help me find him.
WRAITH: He's a hard cat to track.
LOGAN: Just tell me where to start looking. I'll do the rest. Wraith taps the bottleneck, considering.
WRAITH: Might want to talk to his friends from the ultramax.
LOGAN: The prison he busted out of?
WRAITH: ( NODDING ) Feds built it to hold the baddest of the bad mutants. Worked pretty well. Only problem now they all know each other.
LOGAN: People call him the Blob. You find him, you'll know why. Got out of the hoosegow a few months ago. Went home to Iowa. Town called Elgin.
WRAITH: People call him the Blob. You find him, you'll know why. Got out of the hoosegow a few months ago. Went home to Iowa. Town called Elgin.
LOGAN: You think he's still in touch with f C_ONTTNTIRT )1
WRAITH: I bet you'll find out.
INSERT TELEVISION: A REPORTER stands in a Detroit alleyway as POLICE OFFICERS in the background cordon off the area from ONLOOKERS.
REPORTER: This is the 13th confirmed mutant slaying of the last two months, and with the investigation apparently stalled, members of the mutant community are voicing their A YOUNG WOMAN wearing a "Mutants are Humans, Too" t-shirt speaks passionately for the camera.
YOUNG WOMAN: Of course there's bias at work here. If these were normal people getting. chopped up, you better believe there'd be an FBI Task Force investigating, there'd be all sorts of resources allocated to find this killer. Why is it that when violence is done to our community, the nation turns its ( MORE ) ( RNNTTWURD YOUNG WOMAN ( cont'd ) If the government can't protect us, we're gonna have to start protecting ourselves. In the corner of the TV screen, carved directly into the brick wall of the alley, is a crude smiley face.
( RNNTTWURD: YOUNG WOMAN ( cont'd ) If the government can't protect us, we're gonna have to start protecting ourselves. In the corner of the TV screen, carved directly into the brick wall of the alley, is a crude smiley face.
END INSERT: Logan's expression does not change as he watches the report. Our only indications that he's boiling inside are the look of dark vengeance in his eyes, and the fingers of his right hand, which clench into a fist, unclench, clench again. He lowers the volume with the remote, picks up the telephone and dials a number. We hear four rings.
LOGAN: Come on, he's your friend. When was the last time you talked to him?
LOGAN: Careful, Dukes. I can smell a lie before you even tell it. The Blob begins to cry, the great bellows of his cheeks trembling, tears and snot dribbling down his face.
LOGAN: All right, take it easy. Dukes blows his nose into the handkerchief, one of history's loudest and most violent nasal ejaculations. He offers back the soiled handkerchief. Logan waves it off. LOGAN ( cont'd ) It's a gift. Dukes takes a deep breath, gathering himself.
LOGAN: The club for mutants? Down in New FRED J. DUKES Creed likes to party down there. Talked about it all the time how hot the girlies were. That's all I Logan shaves Dukes' jaw with the edge of his claw.
LOGAN: Nah. You know more than that. Dukes tilts his face, trying to keep his face from getting scraped off.
LOGAN: He better be there, Freddie. And he better know something good.
STRYKER: we have information that he was in Las Vegas two nights ago. We'll find him soon.
GENERAL MUNSON: This is turning into a goddamn disaster, Colonel.
STRYKER: I disagree. I'd say the experiment has been a success.
GENERAL MUNSON: Success? Are you kidding me?
STRYKER: Weapon X is a prototype. Nothing more. He's the walking proof that enhanced skeletons are viable. That, along with the healing factor we've replicated from his blood, will insure that the Eleven is capable of protecting our species from extinction.
GENERAL MUNSON: I'm sorry, William. I've lost confidence in your leadership. I'm going to recommend your dismissal to the Joint Chiefs. Stryker stares out the window at the distant lake, with no visible reaction to the General's words.
STRYKER: Disappointing, General. Expected, but still. disappointing.
GENERAL MUNSON: I know you believe in what you're doing. But I don't. War with the mutants is not inevitable. The general coughs. He begins to look confused as he coughs again, his breathing gone suddenly ragged. He clutches at his A thin smile curls Stryker's lips. He turns to regard the You're having a massive heart attack, sir. Leading cause of death for men in your age bracket. The general gasps for air, trying to rise to his feet. In his death throes, he knocks the glass of water from the table. It shatters on the floor. STRYKER.( cont'd ) The war is coming. It's time to choose sides. The general collapses-and Stryker stands above him, staring down at the dying man with pitiless eyes. STRYKER ( cont'd ) You chose treason.
STRYKER: You're having a massive heart attack, sir. Leading cause of death for men in your age bracket. The general gasps for air, trying to rise to his feet. In his death throes, he knocks the glass of water from the table. It shatters on the floor. STRYKER.( cont'd ) The war is coming. It's time to choose sides. The general collapses-and Stryker stands above him, staring down at the dying man with pitiless eyes. STRYKER ( cont'd ) You chose treason.
BOUNCER: You superior? Only when we go CLOSE ON THE BOUNCER do we realize he has a single eye, large and bloodshot, centered in his forehead.. Logan raises both hands. Snikt! A single claw extends from his right hand.
PUSHER: You lookin' for help, man? Ups, downs, in-betweens. What you need?
LOGAN: Wild roses for the moon.
PUSHER: Wild roses. That some new hash out of Amsterdam?
LOGAN: Something like that. You seen my buddy Barbarus? The dealer points toward a staircase at the back of the club.
PUSHER: VIP room. But hold up,bro,.I got what you're looking for.
LOGAN: Trust me, bub you don't. Logan heads for the staircase.
SKINHEAD: Private party.
LOGAN: I'm on the list. Logan. The skinhead raises his clipboard and examines the list.
SKINHEAD: Last name? Logan's fist splits the clipboard and crushes the skinhead's nose. The muscle-bound brute slumps to the floor, unconscious. Logan steps over him and into the VIP room.
LOGAN: INT. VIP ROOM - CONTINUOUS The VIP MUTANTS -sit at plush booths, downing shots of tequila. They grope their GIRLFRIENDS. They arm wrestle and compare tattoos and gobble down fried oysters. BARBARUS sits in a corner booth. He wears a custom-made wife- beater. The brutally-muscled mutant has four arms, all sleeved in tattoos. One hand pours himself a new glass of Jack Daniel's. A second hand gouges his name into the table top with a black steel commando knife. The third drums the beat of the current song on the vinyl booth's backrest. The fourth hand pets PANTERA, the nubile mutant sitting on his lap, a beautiful young woman entirely covered in glistening black fur. Her yellow eyes glitter. Logan approaches the table. Barbarus stares up at him. Pantera purrs, yellow eyes on Logan.
BARBARUS: ( nuzzling his girl ) Oh, I heard about this li'l fella. Mr. Creed beat him to hell.
LOGAN: I came back. Where is he?
BARBARUS: Somewhere in America. Doing what he does best.
LOGAN: What's that?
BARBARUS: Putting people's insides on the He's killing mutants, bub. Barbarus smiles, twenty fingers drumming on the table top.
LOGAN: He's killing mutants, bub. Barbarus smiles, twenty fingers drumming on the table top.
BARBARUS: Some mutants need killing.
LOGAN: You got that right. Barbarus shoves his girlfriend out of the way and stands, unsheathing three more black commando knives from his belt. The other MUTANTS quiet down, watching the fireworks. Barbarus swings, the four knives whistling through the air. Logan ducks under them and continues to bob and weave as Barbarus advances behind a whirlwhind of black steel. Logan slashes and one severed hand falls to the ground. Barbarus howls, stabbing at Logan with his three good arms. Logan's claws flash through the air again, and another neatly severed hand lands on the table. Logan retracts his claws and curls one finger: come at me. Barbarus, shamed and furious, gathers himself and charges. Logan times his punch perfectly, pivoting on the ball of his foot and hitting Barbarus with an uppercut that sounds like a well-hit baseball. Barbarus crashes to the floor. Pantera hisses and pounces at Logan, her black claws aimed at his face. Logan backhands her. She hits the floor and slides across the hardwood. C_nWTTAATFT )
BARBARUS: He don't sent me postcards.
LOGAN: No? Way I hear it, you two were practically boyfriends before he busted out.
BARBARUS: Busted out?
LOGAN: You're lying to me. Barbarus grins, his teeth red from the blood in his mouth.
BARBARUS: No, sir. But somebody is.
WRAITH: He'll find you.
VICTOR CREED: That's the plan. It's a lot easier than finding him. Creed slams Wraith against the concrete wall and plunges his claws deep into Wraith's gut. The Texan's mouth opens as the full force of the pain hits him. Creed whispers in his ear. VICTOR CREED ( cont'd ) I can feel your spine, Johnny Boy. A sickening crunch as vertebrae are crushed like walnut VICTOR CREED ( cont'd ) Never knew you had one. Creed drops Wraith's body to the ground.
LOGAN: Careful, Doc. I can smell a lie. I can hear it. Maybe you start to sweat a little bit. Maybe the pitch of your voice changes. But I'll ( BEAT ) Tell me about Creed. Hines opens her mouth, closes it, opens it again.
HINES: I can't. Please. you don't know what they'll do to me.
LOGAN: Nope. But I know exactly what I'll do to you. ( rnNTTNT1FT ) I
HINES: I don't believe you. You're different than they are. You wouldn't hurt an innocent person.
LOGAN: You're not innocent, Doc. He leans forward, forearms on the tabletop. LOGAN ( cont'd ) What does Victor Creed have to do with the Weapon X program?
HINES: It's not the Weapon X program, it's the Weapon Ultra program. Started sixty-five years ago. They've been trying to make the perfect soldier for a long time. First to fight the Nazis. Then the Communists. Now it's mutants.
LOGAN: So where does Weapon X fit in? Hines closes her eyes and takes a deep breath.
HINES: You don't understand. X is a letter but it's also a Roman numeral. Weapon "Ex" is a nickname. Officially, you're Weapon Ten.
LOGAN: Creed works for Stryker. Hines nods. I CONTTNi]RM
HINES: I don't know about anyone getting killed. I'm just a scientist. I work in a lab sixteen hours a day.
LOGAN: Just following orders, huh?
HINES: He was your commanding officer for years. How many people did you kill on his orders? Logan stares at her for a long count. she stares back, terrified but resolute.
LOGAN: All this time I been hunting Creed, and he's just a puppet. It's Stryker pulling the strings. He stubs out his cigar on the breakfast table. LOGAN ( cont'd ) You ready to stop following orders?
CORNELIUS: The Eleven will be ready within 24 Sir. Lieutenant Hines hasn't reported to base today.
STRYKER: Sir. Lieutenant Hines hasn't reported to base today.
CORNELIUS: Sir. Lieutenant Hines hasn't reported to base today.
STRYKER: ( C_ONTT1 TIED 1 Stryker considers the information for a moment and nods. STRYKER ( cont'd ) All right, thank you, Doctor. ( glancing at case ) What's this? Cornelius sets the case on the table and opens it. Six gleaming, armor-piercing bullets rest in green felt niches.
CORNELIUS: We saved the leftover adamantium from the Weapon X procedure. Stryker plucks one of the bullets from its niche and rolls it between his fingers, examining it with a practiced eye. CORNELIUS ( cont'd ) Each one's got a high-explosive core. Two in the head and Logan's brain will have to regenerate from They won't kill him?
STRYKER: They won't kill him?
CORNELIUS: According to the computer models we ran, there's a 30 percent chance his healing factor will reconstitute the gray matter. But those synaptic bridges that form our memories? Gone. If he survives, his brain will come back fresh.
STRYKER: A blank slate. easy to train. Stryker fondles the shining bullet lovingly. STRYKER ( cont'd ) She's a pretty little thing.
CORNELIUS: She ought to be. That's the world's most expensive bullet. Stryker pulls a revolver from his shoulder holster, dumps the standard rounds, and begins loading the adamantium bullets. ( rfNTTN11F.T 1
I: CONTINUED: ( 2 ) CORNELIUS ( cont'd ) There's another way, a more reliable way, to break down his Only problem is, the procedure can only be done here at Alkali Lake. Stryker swings the chamber shut and holsters his gun.
STRYKER: Only problem is, the procedure can only be done here at Alkali Lake. Stryker swings the chamber shut and holsters his gun.
CORNELIUS: Only problem is, the procedure can only be done here at Alkali Lake. Stryker swings the chamber shut and holsters his gun.
STRYKER: Oh, he's coming back, Doctor. We have what he's looking for.
YOUNG SENTRY: Morning, Lieutenant. Hines smiles brightly, trying to hide her nervousness.
HINES: Good morning! The sentry looks into the car's cabin. The passenger seat is empty. The back seat is empty.
YOUNG SENTRY: Could you pop the trunk for me?
HINES: The trunk?
YOUNG SENTRY: Yes, ma'am. It's all standard procedure but Hines is close to panicking. She opens the glove compartment and hits the trunk release. The sentry inspects the trunk. nothing but a coil of rope and a roll of electrical tape. He slams the trunk door. YOUNG SENTRY ( cont'd ) You have a good day.
HINES: It's safe. Logan crawls out from the underbody, where he had been clinging. He dusts himself off.
LOGAN: Were you aiming for every speed bump in the state?
HINES: Sorry about that. Now what?
LOGAN: We find a uniform that fits. A well-built SERGEANT walks toward his vehicle, paging through requisition papers on a clipboard. LOGAN ( cont'd ) That ought to work.
HINES: You have some blood on your shirt. Logan sees the drops of blood and tries to blot them out.
LOGAN: I barely hit the guy. They don't notice as a small security camera near the entrance pivots, its black eye watching the intruders. ( C'ONTTNI]F.n )
YOUNG SCIENTIST: ( NODDING ) Hines waits till Murphy passes. She stops in front of a locked door and allows a laser scanner to read her retina. The door slides open. Logan looks through the open doorway, his nostrils flaring. He looks primed for homicide.
HINES: ( NODDING ) Hines waits till Murphy passes. She stops in front of a locked door and allows a laser scanner to read her retina. The door slides open. Logan looks through the open doorway, his nostrils flaring. He looks primed for homicide.
LOGAN: I can smell him. He walks through the door. Hines checks to see if the coast is clear.and follows him. Neither notices the security camera mounted on the ceiling, swiveling to track their movement.
HINES: Welcome to Weapon Eleven.
LOGAN: ( STUNNED ) I thought it was just gonna be one guy. This is.
HINES: Ten thousand. They reach the cavern floor and walk amongst the Eleven. HINES ( cont'd ) Stryker says mutants and humans will fight a war soon. ( gesturing to Weapon XI ) This is his army. The camera glides over the isolation tanks as Hines continues to speak. We catch glimpses of the ELEVEN inside, comatose soldiers with needles and wires protruding from their skin, exactly like Logan during the Weapon X procedure. The men all look identical and they all look oddly familiar. HINES ( cont'd ) They incorporate the most successful features of the previous Weapons. Enhanced skeletons, heightened senses, healing factor f r0NTTNTTF.T ) I
LOGAN: It's Creed. He looks inside another tank. Same cruel face, same powerful body. Only their shaved heads distinguish them from Victor LOGAN ( cont'd ) They're all Creed.
HINES: Stryker's most successful mutant hunter. They cloned him years ago.
LOGAN: They get into the world, it's I think that's the general idea. Logan stops in midstride, head raised in the manner of a hunting dog who has just caught wind of his prey. HINES ( cont'd ) What's the matter? Logan moves, walking quickly, nearly knocking over a technician entering data into one of the stasis pods.
HINES: I think that's the general idea. Logan stops in midstride, head raised in the manner of a hunting dog who has just caught wind of his prey. HINES ( cont'd ) What's the matter? Logan moves, walking quickly, nearly knocking over a technician entering data into one of the stasis pods.
TECHNICIAN: Hines hurries after Logan, smiling apologetically at the annoyed technician.
HINES: Where you going? Logan never turns. f rONTTNUT n %
LOGAN: Don't follow me. Hines stops, standing alone in the middle of the Eleven.
STRYKER: Hello, old friend. We've been waiting for you. Logan walks toward the desk, slowly now, a man in a nightmare he can't wake from. STRYKER ( cont'd ) Did you really think we just let you walk away three years ago? You're a dangerous man, my friend. We like to keep an eye on dangerous When Logan reaches the young woman he puts his hand on her Kayla Silverfox turns and stares up at him, tears streaming down her face.
KAYLA: I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. An aluminum baseball bat whirs through the air, smashing the back of Logan's head. Logan falls to the floor, unconscious. Victor Creed stands above him, staring at the flattened barrel of the baseball bat. f nNTTNITFT )1
VICTOR CREED: Man's got a hard head.
STRYKER: ( STANDING ) Let's go. He'll only be out for a couple minutes. Creed tosses aside the bat and lifts Logan onto his shoulders as easily as a normal man would lift a child of six. He carries Logan out of the room, winking at Kayla.
LOGAN: Who are you?
KAYLA: ( very quiet ) You know who I am.
LOGAN: No I don't.
STRYKER: She's real, old friend. Your eyes are telling you. Your ears. Your Logan ignores Stryker, staring at the love of his life.
LOGAN: You're dead.
STRYKER: I asked you nicely to join the program. And you were so stubborn. But I knew if nothing else could motivate you, revenge would. Stryker smiles at Kayla, a proud professor beaming at his STRYKER ( cont'd ) Tell him. Tell him about the day you died. Kayla, head bowed, is silent for a long count. When she speaks her voice is a strange monotone, devoid of feeling.
KAYLA: They gave me a syringe full of EXT. ACCESS ROAD - AN EARLIER DAY Perhaps the colors are desaturated to let us know that this is a scene we've witnessed before, or thought we did. Kayla sits behind the wheel of her pickup. Victor Creed walks toward her, black talons raking five gashes on the hood. Kayla has been expecting him. She pulls her backpack out from behind the seat and takes from it a hypodermic needle and a plastic IV bag filled with dark blood. Creed tears the truck's door off its hinges and tosses it twenty yards. Kayla injects herself with the hypodermic.
I: Why? I
LOGAN: Why? I
LOGAN: Kayla finally raises her head-and looks directly at Logan.
KAYLA: Shot my Daddy when I was eighteen. Big mistake. Should have shot him when I was seventeen.
LOGAN: You told me he died of a heart Maybe he had a heart attack after I shot him. Sat there and watched him bleed. After what that man did to me, I wish he died slower. Logan stares at her for a long time. KAYLA ( cont'd ) That sweet little girl you lived with in the cabin? That was all You loved me. I know you loved me. Kayla blinks and looks away.
KAYLA: Maybe he had a heart attack after I shot him. Sat there and watched him bleed. After what that man did to me, I wish he died slower. Logan stares at her for a long time. KAYLA ( cont'd ) That sweet little girl you lived with in the cabin? That was all You loved me. I know you loved me. Kayla blinks and looks away.
LOGAN: You loved me. I know you loved me. Kayla blinks and looks away.
KAYLA: I'm a good actress.
LOGAN: No one's that good. ( C ONTTN1TF.f )
STRYKER: Everybody's a sucker for something. Figuring out what it is, that's the trick. For you, it's a woman's love. An easy weakness to forgive. But still a weakness. Stryker signals to Cornelius. The doctor and his assistant attach a nasty-looking copper halo to Logan's skull. The halo is wired to the electric chair. Logan never takes his eyes off Silverfox. STRYKER ( cont'd ) Don't be angry at her. She was just serving her country, keeping the mutant menace in check. She and victor have been a real credit to their race. It takes Logan a moment to understand this comment.
LOGAN: You're a mutant?
KAYLA: My Daddy found out when I was twelve. Said a freak like me deserved whatever I got.
VICTOR CREED: My kind of guy.
STRYKER: She's a gifted girl. She can plant thoughts in anyone's mind, make them believe what she wants as long as she stays focused on them. He strokes her long dark hair, proud of his protege. Kayla doesn't seem thrilled by Stryker's touch, but she endures it. STRYKER ( cont'd ) A useful tool in a seduction.
KAYLA: ( to Logan ) Spent so much time getting you to love me, by the time the Colonel showed up I couldn't get you to leave me. ( r0N'rTN1 F.n 1
CORNELIUS: We're good to go.
STRYKER: So, Logan. The truth is, you're a real pain in the ass. But we've invested far too much time and treasure to terminate you. We're starting over. Cornelius checks the digital gauges on the machine.
CORNELIUS: If I've calibrated correctly, we'll leave intact the hard-wired functions, walking and talking, all that good stuff.
VICTOR CREED: You mean I don't get to potty train But every memory you've ever had will evaporate. Just like it never Logan never takes his eyes off Kayla, his personal Judas.
CORNELIUS: But every memory you've ever had will evaporate. Just like it never Logan never takes his eyes off Kayla, his personal Judas.
LOGAN: ( to Cornelius ) Let me know when he's clean. I have to look in on our other guest. Stryker exits the room, followed by Victor.
STRYKER: ( to Cornelius ) Let me know when he's clean. I have to look in on our other guest. Stryker exits the room, followed by Victor.
LOGAN: ( to Kayla ) That story you told me. about the guy who goes to get flowers for the Moon. I can't get it out of my head. Except I had it all backwards. I thought you were the moon and I was your Wolverine. But you're the Trickster, aren't you?
KAYLA: My mother told me that story. She takes a deep breath and turns to go. KAYLA ( cont'd ) It doesn't matter. You won't remember any of this.
LOGAN: You didn't trick me into loving The last two months, you weren't playing around in my skull. You weren't using. your powers on me. I thought you were dead and I loved you more than ever. Maybe it makes you feel better to think it was all fake. But it was never fake for me. Kayla lowers her eyes.
KAYLA: The last two months, you weren't playing around in my skull. You weren't using. your powers on me. I thought you were dead and I loved you more than ever. Maybe it makes you feel better to think it was all fake. But it was never fake for me. Kayla lowers her eyes.
LOGAN: The last two months, you weren't playing around in my skull. You weren't using. your powers on me. I thought you were dead and I loved you more than ever. Maybe it makes you feel better to think it was all fake. But it was never fake for me. Kayla lowers her eyes.
KAYLA: You don't know where I come from. You don't know what it was like.
LOGAN: I know exactly what is was like. I come from there too.
KAYLA: I didn't have a choice.
LOGAN: Course you did. You still do. Kayla stares down at Logan. The tenderness returns to her face. She could free him right now if she wanted. The moment passes and Kayla shakes her head.
KAYLA: I'm sorry. t C( )NTTNTTPTI'
LOGAN: Yeah, you keep saying that. ( to Cornelius ) Come on. Turn on the juice. Let's get this over with.
CORNELIUS: Whenever you're ready, Miss Kayla turns and walks out of the room. Cornelius and his aide follow, shutting the door behind them. Logan takes a deep breath. He looks like a man who is ready to forget everything.
STRYKER: Lieutenant. Victor and I were just discussing how to kill you and we thought you might have some INT. CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS Silverfox steps out of the re-education chamber. She hears voices from the holding cell and approaches.
STRYKER: Now, even a rat can't chew through steel. But it can chew through a stomach. So it would. Right through the skin and the fat and the muscle and the intestines, right on out the other side. l CDNTTNi7ET ) I
HINES: Please, Colonel Stryker pats Hines on the cheek and nods to Victor.
STRYKER: Enjoy yourself.
HINES: Please don't do this. Please! Victor drags the screaming Hines off of her cot. Kayla watches with growing unease but Stryker smiles and- waves goodbye as he turns the key that shuts the cell door.
LOGAN: That all you got?
CORNELIUS: ( to his assistant ) This could take a while. Raise the amperage by forty percent.
KAYLA: You're going to let Victor kill that woman. Stryker and Collins ignore her. KAYLA ( cont'd ) When you got me out of prison, you told me we were going to help Stryker continues to sign papers, never looking up.
STRYKER: We are. We're saving humanity.
KAYLA: From the mutants? The phone rings. Stryker answers it.
STRYKER: ( LISTENING ) Good. I'm coming down. ( hanging up; to Collins ) The Eleven is ready. He stands and heads for the door. Collins follows. In the doorway, Stryker stops and fixes his cold blue gaze on Kayla. STRYKER ( cont'd ) Don't worry, my sweet. You're one of the good ones. I'll protect you. He and Collins exit the room, leaving Kayla alone with her INT. RE-EDUCATION CENTER, ALKALI LAKE - DAY Logan sits panting in the chair, gripping the ends of the arm rests with white fingers, waiting for the next surge of electricity. It comes and he arches again, all the muscles in his body contracting, the veins in his neck bulging.
KAYLA: Is he clean yet? Cornelius and the assistant face front again..
CORNELIUS: He's stronger than I thought. We could be here all night.. Kayla watches Logan in his agony. A glimmer of remorse passes over her face.
KAYLA: He was good to me. Cornelius, fiddling with the amperage dial, curls his lips in a sardonic smile.
CORNELIUS: You have a funny way of showing your gratitude. Logan thrashes in his chair. Kayla chews her lip. For a long count she watches Logan suffer.
KAYLA: You should turn it off now. Cornelius turns and stares at her.
CORNELIUS: I should what?
KAYLA: You two have always hated each other. You should fight. The assistant blinks and begins to scowl, turning toward Cornelius just in time to get punched in the mouth. The two men brawl on the floor with the lack of skill you'd expect from two scientists.
KAYLA: Hey. Wake up. Logan opens his eyes. He is clearly disoriented, as if waking from a long coma. He stares up at Kayla. KAYLA ( cont'd ) Are you okay? Logan stares at her, groggy and confused. KAYLA ( cont'd ) Do you understand what I'm saying?
LOGAN: I would have done anything for you.
KAYLA: Do you hear me? Anything. ( r0NTTNTTF.T )1
LOGAN: Do you hear me? Anything. ( r0NTTNTTF.T )1
KAYLA: Please. Creed's killing your INT. HOLDING CELL - DAY Victor Creed holds Hines against the cell wall with one hand. Her feet kick in the air as she struggles. He splits her blouse down the middle with a long black talon.
VICTOR CREED: I've always had a thing for human chicks. You're all so soft and VICTOR CREED Maybe it's time I did a little surgery on you, Doctor.
HINES: VICTOR CREED Maybe it's time I did a little surgery on you, Doctor.
VICTOR CREED: Maybe it's time I did a little surgery on you, Doctor.
VICTOR CREED: ( to Logan ) Starting to think you're addicted to pain. You keep coming back for Snikt !
LOGAN: This is the end.
VICTOR CREED: Amen to that. Kayla stands in between them, holding up her hands.
KAYLA: Please! We shouldn't be fighting each other. Stryker's using us.
VICTOR CREED: A little late for the Mutant Power crap. We hunt freaks for the man. That's why we're free.
KAYLA: What's he gonna do with us when the other mutants are dead? Put us in a Creed hesitates, considering the logic of her words. A fanged smile splits his face.
VICTOR CREED: Don't try your head games on me. I've gutted better telepaths than Creed rears back to hammer Kayla, a blow that would separate her head from her body. Logan catches Creed's fist inches from Kayla's face.
LOGAN: Time you quit picking on girls.
VICTOR CREED: Oh, I'm happy picking on men. Creed swings at Logan's head, Logan ducks, and the fight This is melee so efficient that no motion is wasted. Every lunge would kill any other adversary. Every parried blow would shatter a normal man's arm. Kayla, bleeding from the nose, staggers to her feet. She helps up Hines and pushes her toward the door.
KAYLA: Get out of here. Hines doesn't have to be told twice. She flees. Creed sees his plaything running out the door. He snarls in frustration.
VICTOR CREED: You're ruining my party. He grabs hold of Logan and hurls him headfirst through the cell wall a concrete support wall.
SENTRY #1: Get down! Get down!
SENTRY #2: Down on your knees! Logan and Creed, trying to punch holes in each other, ignore the sentries. Kayla, staring down the barrels of the big guns,. holds up her hands. She concentrates, staring into the sentries' eyes.
KAYLA: We're here as guests of Colonel The sentries' hostility shifts into apologetic obeisance.
SENTRY #1: Very sorry about that.
KAYLA: You boys are no longer needed here. Go back to barracks.
SENTRIES: You got it. See ya later. Bye! The sentries wave cheerfully and depart. Creed and Logan are equally skilled, but Creed's superior size and strength begin to wear the smaller man down. Creed slams him into the wall, opening fissures. Holding both of Wolverine's wrists up with one hand, Creed grabs Wolverine's face with his free hand. ( CONTTNI IRh )
VICTOR CREED: How you gonna fight without eyes, little man? Logan brings his knee up hard, smashing his adamantium- enhanced kneecap into Creed's groin. The big man groans. Logan spins Creed around, jamming him against the wall. He tries to skewer Creed with the claws of his right hand but Creed moves his head at the last moment. Logan's claws are buried to the hilt-in the wall. He strikes at Creed with his left hand, but Creed dodges again. All six of Logan's claws are deep in the solid rock wall. He brings his hands. together, the adamantium blades slicing through granite as if it were cheesecake. Creed ducks under the claws an instant before they shred him. He grabs Logan in a-bear hug. A large section of the wall behind them falls out, and, unable to halt their momentum, Logan and Creed tumble through the hole, disappearing from sight. Kayla runs over and stands at the jagged precipice, looking out onto the gargantuan Weapon XI cavern.
STRYKER: ( to Lead Technician ) I want the Eleven combat ready. ( cnNTTNIIF.T )1
LEAD TECHNICIAN: We can't rush them,.sir. They've been in stasis for
STRYKER: I want them ready! The Lead Technician flinches and barks orders to his subordinates, who enter commands into their computers. The lids of ten thousand isolation tanks slide open. As the camera roams among the Eleven, needles and hoses detach from their bodies, releasing their metallic grip. The cloned Creeds begin to stir in their stainless steel CUT TO: Creed pounces on Logan, who is still severely injured from the fall. Creed tears into the smaller man mercilessly, slinging him around the cavern, gouging him with his black Creed batters Logan with a series of savage blows. Logan falls, his healing factor overwhelmed, barely conscious. Creed plants one heavy black boot on Logan's face and presses down hard. He leers at his defeated foe.
VICTOR CREED: Your pal Wraith pissed all over my boots when I crushed his spine. Smell like fear, don't they? Something changes within Logan, a fury so overwhelming it cannot be contained, a rage so vast it could only be called .Logan rolls toward his tormentor, sweeping his claws straight through Creed's ankle, severing the foot. Creed screams and falls to his knees. Logan stands, grabbing a handful of Creed's dirty blonde This is for the ones who couldn't fight back.
LOGAN: This is for the ones who couldn't fight back.
STRYKER: ( to the Lead Technician ) Activate the PA system. The Lead Technicians flips a switch. Stryker speaks into a microphone; his voice booms from speakers mounted on the pillars throughout the cavern. STRYKER ( c.ont'd ) The Eleven snap to attention with machined synchronicity, all ten thousand facing Stryker.
LOGAN: I don't want him hypnotized. I want him dead. Never taking his eyes off his enemy, Logan advances.
STRYKER: The man's committing suicide. He leans into the microphone. The Eleven listen to their commander's voice, amplified by hundreds of speakers STRYKER ( cont'd ) No army that ever marched could stand against you! You will never abandon your mission, and your mission is simple! Kill the mutants! Kill them wherever you find them! Stryker points at Logan. STRYKER ( cont'd )
LOGAN: ( to Kayla ) Get the hell out of here.
KAYLA: What are you doing?
LOGAN: Bringin' down the house. He sweeps his claws clean through the pillar, at an angle. The uppermost section shears off and drills into the floor with a concussive whump that spiderwebs the concrete for thirty feet around the impact site. Stryker realizes what Logan is doing.
STRYKER: ATTACK! ATTACK! The Eleven charge. From above we can see the full-scale of the onslaught, wave upon wave of cloned murderers closing in. ( CENTTN11FTl'
ATTACK! ATTACK!: The Eleven charge. From above we can see the full-scale of the onslaught, wave upon wave of cloned murderers closing in. ( CENTTN11FTl'
KAYLA: One of them could have survived. Logan glances at her. KAYLA ( cont'd ) The clones. They've got your healing factor. Logan looks back at the devastation.
LOGAN: Unless someone comes along who can move a few million tons of steel, they ain't going anywhere.
LOGAN: Almost looks peaceful from here.
KAYLA: There's something I want you to He looks at her. ( CONTTNt1F.fl
THE END: Writers : David Benioff Skip Woods
