Joey: I'm tellin' you Ross, she wants you.
Ross: She barely knows me. We just live in the same building.
Chandler: Any contact?
Ross: She lent me an egg once.
Joey: You're in!
Ross: Aw, right.
Woman: Hi, Ross.
Ross: Hey. (stutters something incoherent)
Joey: Excuse me, could we get an egg over here, still in the shell? Thanks.
Ross: An egg?
Joey: Yeah, you're gonna go up to her and say, "Here's your egg back, I'm
returning your egg."
Chandler: I think it's winning.
Ross: I think it's insane.
Chandler: She'll love it. Go with the egg, my friend.
Joey: Think it'll work?
Chandler: No, it's suicide. The man's got an egg.
Monica: You can not do this.
Rachel: Do what, do what?
Monica: Roger wants to take her out tomorrow night.
Rachel: No! Phoebes! Don't you remember why you dumped the guy?
Phoebe: 'Cause he was creepy, and mean, and a little frightening... alright,
still, it's nice to have a date on Valentine's Day!
Monica: But Phoebe, you can go out with a creepy guy any night of the year. I
know I do. 
Rachel: Well, what are you guys doing tomorrow night?
Joey: Actually, tomorrow night kinda depends on how tonight goes.
Chandler: Oh, uh, listen, about tonight...
Joey: No, no, no, don't you dare bail on me. The only reason she's goin' out
with me is because I said I could bring a friend for her friend.
Chandler: Yes, I know, but her friend sounds like such a...
Ross: Hi. She said yes.
Chandler: Yes! Way to go, man! (Chandler and Ross hug. Something crunches in
Ross' shirt pocket.) Still got the egg, huh?
Joey: (Looking at himself in the reflection on a knife) How do I look?
Chandler: Oh, uh, I... don't... care. (Joey's date shows up) Ok, now, remember,
no trading. You get the pretty one, I get the mess.
Lorraine: Hi, Joey. Well well, look what you brought. Very nice.
Chandler: ...And what did you bring?
Lorraine: She's checking the coats. Joey, I'm gonna go wash the cab smell off my
hands. Will you get me a white Zinfandel, and a glass of red for Janice.
Chandler: Janice?
Janice: Oh.... my.... God.
Chandler: (angrily) Hey, it's Janice.
Chandler: Ok, I'm makin' a break for it, I'm goin' out the window. 
Joey: No, no, no, don't! I've been waitin' for like, forever to go out with
Lorraine. Just calm down. 
Chandler: Calm down? Calm down? You set me up with the woman that I've dumped
twice in the last five months!
Joey: (at the urinal) Can you stop yellin'? You're makin' me nervous, and I
can't go when I'm nervous.
Chandler: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, you're right. (gets up right behind Joey and
yells in his ear) Come on, do it, do it, go, come on!!!
Rachel: Ok, ok, Roger was creepy, but he was nothing compared to Pete Carney.
Monica: Which one was Pete Carney?
Rachel: Pete the Weeper? Remember that guy who used to cry every time we had
sex. (imitating) "Was it good for you?"
Rachel: How did we end up with these jerks? We're good people!
Monica: I don't know. Maybe we're some kinda magnets.
Phoebe: I know I am. That's why I can't wear a digital watch.
Monica: There's more beer, right?
Phoebe: Oh! You know my friend Abby who shaves her head? She said that if you
want to break the bad boyfriend cycle, you can do like a cleansing ritual.
Rachel: Pheebes, this woman is voluntarily bald.
Phoebe: Yeah. So, we can do it tomorrow night, you guys. It's Valentine's Day.
It's perfect.
Monica: Ok, well, what kind of ritual?
Phoebe: Ok. We can, um, we can burn the stuff they gave us.
Rachel: Or?
Phoebe: Or...or we can chant and dance around naked, you know, with sticks.
Monica: Burning's good.
Rachel: Burning's good. Yeah, I got stuff to burn.
Lorraine: You know, ever since I was little, I've been able to pick up quarters
with my toes.
Joey: Good for you. (jumps suddenly) Uh, quarters or rolls of quarters?
Janice: By the way, Chandler. I cut you out of all my pictures. So if you want,
I have a bag with just your heads.
Chandler: That's OK.
Janice: Oh, are you sure? Really? Because you know, you could make little
puppets out of them, and you could use them in your theater of cruelty.
Joey: (to Lorraine) We can't do that.
Chandler: (disgusted) What? What can't you do?
Joey: Uh, can I talk to you for a second, over there?
Joey: Uh, we might be leaving now.
Chandler: Tell me it's "you and me" we.
Joey: She said she wants to slather my body with stuff and then lick it off. I'm
not even sure what slathering is, but I definitely want to be a part of it.
Chandler: Ok, you can not do this to me.
Joey: You're right, I'm sorry. You're right.
Lorraine: (to waiter) Uh, can we have three chocolate mousses to go please?
Joey: I'm outta here. Here's my credit card. Dinner's on me. I'm sorry,
Chandler.
Chandler: I hope she throws up on you.
Chandler: So...
Janice: Just us.
Chandler: Oh, what a crappy night!
Janice: Although, I have enjoyed the fact that, uh your shirt's been stickin'
outta your zipper ever since you came back from the bathroom. 
Chandler: Excuse me. (gets up, jumps up and down while he zips his zipper up...
other patrons look at him) How ya doin'?
Janice: So, do we have the best friends or what?
Chandler: Joey's not a friend. He's...a stupid man who left us his credit card.
Another drink? Some dessert? A big screen TV?
Janice: I will go for that drink.
Chandler: You got it. Good woman! (the waiter turns around, it's a man) Could we
get a bottle of your most overpriced champagne?
Janice: Each.
Chandler: That's right, each. Oh, and a uh Rob Roy. (to Janice) I've always
wanted to know...
Janice: Happy Valentine's Day!
Janice: Oh, I miss you already. Can you believe this happened?
Chandler: No... no! And yet it did. Good-bye, Janice.
Janice: Kiss me!
Monica: Oh, Chandler, sorry.
Monica: Ohhh, Chandler, sorry! Hey, Janice.
Janice: Hi, Monica.
Chandler: Ok, well, this was very special.
Monica: Rach, come see who's out here!
Rachel: Oh my god. Janice, hi!
Chandler: Janice is gonna go away now.
Monica: I'll be right back.
Rachel: Oh, Joey, look who it is.
Joey: (in disbelief) Whoa.
Chandler: Oh, good, Joey's home now.
Janice: This is so fun. This is like a reunion in the hall.
Monica: Oh, hi, Ross. Yeah. There's someone I want you to say hi to. (to
Chandler) He just happened to call.
Janice: Hi, Ross. Yes, it's me. How did you know? (she laughs obnoxiously) 
Ross: I'm just sayin' if dogs do experience jet lag, then, because of the whole
um, seven dog years to one human year thing, then, when a dog flies from New York to Los
Angeles, he doesn't just lose three hours, he loses like a week and a half.
Kristin: That's funny. Who are they?
Ross: The blond woman is my ex-wife, and the woman touching her is her... close,
personal friend.
Kristin: You mean they're lovers.
Ross: If you wanna put a label on it.
Kristin: Wow, uh, anything else I should know?
Ross: Nope, nope, that's it. 
Ross: Oh, and she's pregnant with my baby. I always forget that part. (to Carol
and Susan) Helloo!
Phoebe: Ok, so now we need, um sage branches and the sacramental wine.
Monica: All I have is, is oregano and a Fresca.
Phoebe: Um, that's ok! (throws it in fire) Ok. All right. Now we need the semen
of a righteous man.
Rachel: Ok, Pheebs, you know what, if we had that, we wouldn't be doing the
ritual in the first place.
Monica: Can we just start throwing things in?
Phoebe: Ok, yeah, ok. (she throws the directions in) Oh, OK.
Rachel: (tossing things in the fire) Ok, Barry's letters. Adam Ritter's boxer
shorts.
Phoebe: Ok, and I have the, uh receipt for my dinner with Nokululu Oon Ah Ah.
Monica: Look, here's a picture of Scotty Jared naked.
Rachel: (looking at picture) Hey he's wearing a sweater.
Monica: No.
Rachel: And here we have the last of Paulo's grappa.
Monica: Hey, Rachel, isn't that stuff almost pure...
Chandler: How can I dump this woman on Valentine's day?
Joey: I don't know. You dumped her on New Year's.
Chandler: Oh, man. In my next life, I'm coming back as a toilet brush.
Janice: Hello, funny Valentine.
Chandler: Hi, Just Janice.
Janice: Hello, Joey, our little matchmaker. I could just kiss you all over, and
I'm gonna!
Joey: (to Chandler) If you don't do it, I will.
Ross: So, um, what do you do for a living?
Kristin: Well, um, for the past few years I've been working..(Ross is watching
Carol and Susan, not listening to Kristin. Susan gets up, and has to go. Carol is left
stranded)...which is funny because, that wasn't even my major.
Carol: Oh no. I thought you said they could shoot the spot without you. 
Susan: I thought they could...I'll try to get back as soon as I can. I'm sorry.
(Ross realizes Kristin was expecting him to laugh, so he starts to laugh hysterically.)
Ross: Now that is funny. Hey, do you think...would it be too weird if I invited
Carol over to join us? 'Cause she's, she's alone now, and pregnant, and, and sad. 
Kristin: (reluctantly) I guess.
Ross: Are you sure? Great. Carol? Wanna come over and join us?
Carol: Oh, no no no. I'm fine. I'm fine.
Ross: Come on. These people'll scooch down. You guys'll scooch, won't you? Let's
try scooching! Come on. Come on. Uh, Kristen Riggs, this is Carol Willick. Carol, Kristin.
Uh, Carol teaches sixth grade. And, Kristin, Kristin...(struggling)...does something that,
funnily enough, wasn't even her major!
Monica: You know, it's a really funny story how this happened.
Rachel: Really?
Janice: I brought you something.
Chandler: Is it loaded? Oh, little candy hearts. (reading the candy) Chan and
Jan Forever.
Janice: I had them made special.
Chandler: Ok, Janice. Janice. Hey, Janice. Look, there's no way for me to tell
you this. At least there's no new way for me to tell you this. I just don't things
are gonna work out.
Janice: That's fine.
Chandler: (surprised) It is?
Janice: Mmm-hmm. Because I know that this isn't the end.
Chandler: Oh no, you see, actually it is.
Janice: No, it isn't, because you won't let that happen. Don't you know it yet?
You love me, Chandler Bing.
Chandler: Oh, no I don't.
Janice: Well then ask yourself this. Why do you think we keep ending up
together? New Year's? Who invited who? Valentine's? Who asked who into whose bed? 
Chandler: I did, but...
Janice: You seek me out. Something deep in your soul calls out to me like a
foghorn. Janice, Janice. You want me. You need me. You can't live without me. And you know
it. You just don't know you know it. See ya.
Chandler: Call me!
Carol: It's not true. I never called your mother a wolverine.
Carol: Uh, I don't think she's in the bathroom. Her coat is gone.
Ross: Well maybe it's cold in there. Or maybe I screwed up the first date I had
in 9 years. 
Carol: That could be it.
Ross: Oh, god. (He puts his head down on the grill) You know, this is still
pretty hot. (He picks his head up, and a mushroom sticks to his head. Carol picks it off
and eats it.)
Carol: Mushroom. Smile. They won't all be like this. Some women might even stay
through dinner. Sorry, that's not funny
Ross: No, it's just...you know the whole "getting on with your life"
thing. Well, do I have to? I mean, I'm sitting here with this cute woman, and, and, and
she's perfectly nice, and, but that there's, that's it. And um, and then I'm here talkin'
to you, and, and it's easy, and it's fun, and, and I don't, I don't have to...You know,
here's a wacky thought. Um, what's say you and I give it another shot? No no no, I know
what you're gonna say, you're a lesbian. But what do you say we just put that aside for
now you know? Let's just stick a pin in it, ok? Because, we're great together, you know.
You can't deny it. Besides, you're carrying my baby. I mean, how perfect is that? But see,
you know, you keep sayin' that, but there's somethin' right here. I love you.
Carol: Oh, I love you too. But...
Ross: No but, no but.
Carol: You know that thing you put over here with the pin in it? It's time to
take the pin out. You'll find someone, I know you will. The right woman is just waiting
for you.
Ross: That's easy for you to say, you found one already.
Carol: All you need is a woman who likes men and you'll be set.
Carol: Not her.
Rachel: So, um, will you bring the truck?
Rachel: Oh, my god.
Phoebe: See, there you go, the cleansing works!
Monica: They're nice guys.
Rachel: Oh, they're firemen guys.