Chandler: Hi!
Ross: Hey!
Monica: Hey!
Chandler: We're just here to say goodbye, we're off 
                          to Ohio.
Phoebe: Oh, right! Your adoption interview!
Monica: Yep, we're gonna meet the lady who could be 
                          carrying our baby.
Joey: I can't believe it. When you guys come back, 
                          you're gonna have a baby! That is so weird!
Chandler: And so incorrect!
Monica: She's only a couple of months pregnant. She 
                          liked our application but who knows if she's gonna like 
                          us.
Ross: Come on, she's gonna love you guys!
Chandler: Uhm, thank you, but we're really trying not 
                          to get our hopes up.
Monica: And a lot could still get in our way.
Chandler: Yeah. I mean, this girl could decide against 
                          adoption or she could like another couple better..
Phoebe: What are you gonna name the baby?
Chandler: I can develop a condition in which I talk 
                          and talk and no one hears a word.
Joey: But just think, ok? What if everything goes right? 
                          What if this woman does pick you guys?
Monica: Oh my God. She's gonna pick us!
Chandler: So we're standing firm on the 'not getting 
                          our hopes up'?
Monica: You know, I know that things could still go 
                          wrong but if they don't? If this works out, we're gonna 
                          have a baby Chandler, a baby!
Chandler: Yes, but...
Monica: Oh my God, it's gonna WORK! We're gonna make 
                          it work! I'm gonna be a mummy and (to Chandler) you're 
                          gonna be a daddy! All right, I'll see you suckers. I'm 
                          gonna get me... A BABY! (she leaves)
Chandler: Oh, screw it, I'm gonna be a daddy!!
Joey: I'm gonna say someone I'm gonna have sex with. 
                          (the girl leaves and Phoebe goes toward the couch) (to 
                          Phoebe) Hey!
Phoebe: Hey!
Joey: So... who's your friend?
Phoebe: Oh, that's Sarah. No, no. Don't you get any 
                          ideas, ok? No, I'm not setting you up with any more 
                          of my friends!
Joey: OW, why, why, why?
Phoebe: Because you'll date her once, sleep with her 
                          and then forget she exists!
Joey: Oh, name one friend of yours that I did that 
                          with.
Phoebe: Mandy.
Joey: Mandy, uh? Uh... really hot blonde, big boobs?
Phoebe: No.
Joey: I know why I don't remember her, huh? (he winks 
                          at Rachel)
Rachel: Do you think I'm someone else?
Joey: Ok, I may not have treated your friends well 
                          in the past, but I have grown up a lot, really. Honest, 
                          Rach?
Rachel: Well, believe it or not, it's true. When Joey 
                          and I were together, he was wonderful. He was thoughtful 
                          and mature. And for the one week that we went out, he 
                          didn't sleep with anybody else!
Joey: (pointing at himself) Growth!
Phoebe: Fine, I'll give you her number.
Joey: Ok, thank you. And I promise you I will not forget 
                          this one. (he starts writing on his hand) Mandy.
Phoebe: SARAH!
Joey: Saraaah.
Ross: (entering) Hey!
Rachel: Hi!
Ross: Hey you guys, I need some fashion advice.
Rachel: Oh!
Ross: (he takes a baby blue beret out of a shopping 
                          box and puts it on) How does this look?
Rachel: Well, it's a little low... pick up a little... 
                          (Ross picks it up) a little bit more... (he picks it 
                          up again) a little bit more... (he takes it off) There 
                          you go! (pause) Now throw it away!
Ross: C'mon! This looks good!
Rachel: Ross, please, trust me. I buy 30 fashion magazines 
                          a month. Now, I don't know who's running for president 
                          or who that... NATO guy is, but I do know that you have 
                          to get as far away as you can from that hat.
Ross: Damnit! I have this date tomorrow night and I 
                          have to look cool!
Phoebe: Well, you know, if you want fashion help, Rachel 
                          and I are going shopping tomorrow. You're more than 
                          welcome to come with us, right?
Ross: Really? That would be great. I mean, I have to 
                          do something, she kinda teased me about how I dress. 
                        
Joey: I can see why, nice shirt!
Ross: You're wearing the same shirt.
Joey: Stupid Gap on every corner!
Monica: Ok, thank you.(the man leaves) Uh, well this 
                          is it. Are you OK?
Chandler: Yeah. Just weird, you know. It's like: "Hi, 
                          I'm Chandler. May I have the human growing inside you?"
Monica: Uh, we're gonna be great.
Chandler: You're gonna be great.
Monica: Well... obviously!
Monica: Hi. It is so, so nice to meet you.
Erica: (whispering) Hi...
Chandler: Thank you so much for agreeing to see us.
Erica: Hi.
Chandler: Ok.
Erica: So, it's Monica and Chandler. I only know you 
                          as file 0W33815-D.
Chandler: That's what our friends call us.
Erica: Gosh, you know, you're just such an amazing 
                          couple. It's... kind of intimidating.
Monica: I don't know about that.
Erica: You're kidding me? I mean, it's enough that 
                          you are a doctor. But on top of it, you're married to 
                          a reverend?
Chandler: (astonished) I don't think that's exactly...
Monica: (overlapping) Let her finish, doctor.
Phoebe: Hey! 
Joey: Hey.
Phoebe: Oh, my friend Sarah had a great time last night.
Joey: Well...
Phoebe: Yeah! So you're gonna call this one back?
Joey: Nope.
Phoebe: What are you talking about? Sarah's great!
Joey: Oh, really? You know what your great friend did? 
                          We're out to dinner, ok? (he starts talking about the 
                          date and we can see what happened through a flashback 
                          video) We're getting along, having a really nice time. 
                          I was thinking she was really cool. And then, out of 
                          nowhere... 
Phoebe: What?
Joey: ALL FOOD!
Phoebe: (to Rachel) Oh
Rachel: Hi
Rachel: what?
Phoebe: Joey and my friend were out last night and 
                          having dinner and she reaches over and takes a few of 
                          his fries...
Rachel: Oh! Oh, no!
Phoebe: What? You know about the plate thing?
Rachel: Oh no! Not me! Emma!
Phoebe: (to Ross) This place is awesome! 
Rachel: Ah, this place is great!
Phoebe: Wow!
Rachel: Ross, look, I know that some of this stuff 
                          is out there, but I mean, come on, look at this, look 
                          at this sweater! (she picks up a blue sweater). I mean, 
                          this is just beautiful!
Ross: (feeling the fabric) Wow, this is really soft 
                          (he looks the price). Three hundred and fifty dollars?
Rachel: Yeah, down from seven hundred, you are saving 
                          like two hundred bucks!
Ross: Both logic and math are taking a serious hit 
                          today.
Ross: Wow!
Phoebe: Yeah!
Phoebe: What? They will be!
Ross: Uh, actually these might look pretty good on 
                          me.
Ross: Really?
Rachel: (to Phoebe) Why do men keep talking to me like 
                          this?
Monica: Amen.
Chandler: Plus I thought the baby would be in good 
                          hands with a doctor!
Monica: Uh, good hands. (she holds Chandler hands) 
                          Healing hands.
Erica: Reverend, can I ask? Does the bible say anything 
                          about adoption?
Monica: It says "Do it!" And behold she did 
                          adopt unto them a baby. And it was good.
Erica: Wow.
Chandler: Yeah, wow.
Erica: I was wondering you both have such serious jobs. 
                          (to Monica) Would you have time to take care of a baby 
                          and your flock?
Monica: Oh, you know, my flock is good, I mean, yeah, 
                          my flock pretty much takes care of themselves at this 
                          point. Good flock. Flock, flock, flock.
Erica: (to Chandler) Being a doctor must take up a 
                          lot of time.
Chandler: Yeah, actually. So, you read a file that 
                          you liked and you gave the agency the serial number 
                          and they contacted us?
Erica: Yeah, when I read about you two, I was pretty 
                          sure I wanted you, but I just thought we should meet 
                          face to face. (to the agency guy). I've made my decision. 
                          I choose them.
Monica: Oh my God, this is great! This is so great! 
                          (to Chandler, who looks bewildered). Did you hear that?
Chandler: Yeah, I did.
Monica: (to Erica) Hey, thank you. Thank you so much. 
                          (they hugs). You are SO going to Heaven!
Rachel: We got some really great stuff!
Phoebe: Yeah, yeah but I am not sure about some of 
                          the bra's I got.
Rachel: Oh! Really? Do you wanna try some of them on 
                          for me? 
Phoebe: Oh! okay. Wait, are we in Joey's imagination?
Rachel: (looking into one of her shopping bags) Oh 
                          no! I took one of Ross' bags by 
                          mistake, and one of mine is missing.
Phoebe: oh, well, Ross probably has it, you can get 
                          it from him later.
Ross: (to Joey) So? What do you think? (Shows himself 
                          - Joey observes him with a strange look on his face.)
Joey: I think were not wearing the same shirt anymore!!
Ross: (not getting it) Yeah! Yeah! Rachel picked it 
                          out for me. She told me to trust her and you know what? 
                          I'm glad I did! I turned quite a few heads on my way 
                          over here.
Joey: (now laughing a little) Dude, I really don't 
                          think you should be wearing that.
Ross: Oh, I see, somebody is afraid of a little competition 
                          with the ladies?
Joey: (looking a little agitated now) Looks like someone 
                          IS the ladies!!
Ross: You're just jealous because you couldn't pull 
                          this off. Yeah, now if you'll excuse me (getting up 
                          and taking his coat) I have a date. (As he is walking 
                          out, everyone turns and stares at him) See? (To Joey) 
                          ALL eyes on ME!
Monica: Why not?
Chandler: It's wrong. They made a mistake. They think 
                          we're somebody else.
Monica: God works in mysterious ways.
Chandler: You have gotta stop!
Monica: But she liked us.
Chandler: She likes Doctor Chandler and Reverend Monica.
Monica: Well, if you think about it, I am kind of like 
                          a Reverend. I mean, as a chef, I serve God, by feeing 
                          the hungry and poor. (looks very convinced about what 
                          she just said)
Chandler: Your Veal Chop is $34.95!
Monica: C'mon Chandler, I think we have been given 
                          an opportunity. I mean, the mistake has already been 
                          made. They are writing up the paper right now.
Chandler: But we are not the one she chose! How can 
                          you feel okay about this?
Monica: (very emotional) Because... We may not be who 
                          she thinks we are but no-one will ever love that baby 
                          more than us.
Chandler: I know..
Monica: I mean, who knows how long it's gonna take 
                          for someone else to give us a baby? What if, what if 
                          no one ever picks us?
Chandler: oh, honey..
Monica: (Almost crying) Please.. please, we are so 
                          close.
Chandler: Monica, I want a baby too, but this woman 
                          is giving away her child. She deserves to know who it's 
                          going to. 
Monica: (realizes Chandler is right. She's almost crying) 
                          okay, right. (They hug)
Chandler: So, we'll tell the truth and who knows, maybe 
                          she'll like us for us.
Monica: (sniffing) Maybe she will. Uh! Why couldn't 
                          I have been a Reverend?
Chandler: You're Jewish.
Monica: Technicality!
Joey: Oh, that looks great! Good ordering!
Waiter: Seafood platter for the gentleman and extra 
                          fries. Enjoy!
Sarah: Mmmh, those fries look delicious.
Joey: oh, I didn't know you liked French fries. Help 
                          yourself! What's mine is yours. (Sarah reaches over 
                          and takes a few fries)
Sarah: (looks over at Joey's platter) Oh wow, are those 
                          stuffed clams?
Joey: Uuuh.. yes, they are my stuffed clams.
Sarah: They are delicious (takes a few from the plate, 
                          puts one in her mouth and places the rest on her plate, 
                          then starts to reach over to Joey's platter again)
Joey: (Spotting her movements takes her hand into his 
                          own) You are beautiful, you know that?
Sarah: Oh, that is so sweet..
Joey: Oh (grinning, trying to hold in his impatience 
                          with her) okay.. (she takes her hand back)
Joey: (Visibly annoyed) NOW look what you did!!
Sarah: What? what is the matter with you?
Joey: I don't like it when people take food off of 
                          my plate, okay?
Sarah: But you just said "What's mine is yours"?
Joey: WELL, I DIDN'T MEAN IT!
Sarah: Fine, I'm sorry, I didn't think it was that 
                          big a deal.
Joey: I'm sorry, I'm overreacting. Okay, It's just 
                          when it comes to food, I have certain rules, okay, I 
                          mean (bends down and with his plate and his hands, scrapes 
                          the dropped dinner back onto the plate and puts it back 
                          on the table) There are things you do..and you know, 
                          things.. (takes something from the plate and blows it 
                          a little) that you don't do (He takes a bite from it). 
                        
Girl: Wow, this place looks great.
Ross: Oh! You are gonna love it! (The girl is looking 
                          in the other direction as Ross is taking off his own 
                          coat, revealing the pink and white ladies shirt) and 
                          I'm so glad, we're finally doing this.
Girl: Me too! (starts to take her coat off)
Ross: Here (gets behind her to help. When the coat 
                          comes off we see she is wearing the exact same shirt 
                          Ross is wearing. They look at each other, shocked. They 
                          abruptly put their coat back on) So this was fun! (They 
                          leave the room and head into opposite directions)
Sarah: Sure (smiling) Just not as much as clams.
Joey: (Jokingly) Well, stuffed clams.
Waiter: Chocolate Torte for the lady, cheesecake for 
                          the gentleman.
Joey: Uh, excuse me sir, there seems to be some sort 
                          of red crap on my cheesecake.
Waiter: Yes, that's Raspberry coule.
Joey: (More to himself than anyone else) So stupid, 
                          ordering cheesecake, trying to 
                          be healthy. (pushes it aside)
Sarah: (tasting hers) Oh my God! (Looks at the waiter 
                          and then to Joey)
Joey: Oh, all right, I'll just have what she's having 
                          instead.
Waiter: Oh, I'm sorry sir, that was our last piece.
Sarah: Mmmm! Mmm!
Sarah: Oh, no! This is work. I should call in. Can 
                          you excuse me?
Joey: Oh yeah, sure. No problem.
Sarah: What are you doing? I thought you don't share 
                          food.
Joey: Sure I do. (holding up his own dessert) Coule?
Sarah: (laughing) No. If I can't have your clams, you 
                          can't have my dessert. This is a two way street.
Joey: (laughing) Really?
Sarah: Really! Now this all better be here when I come 
                          back. (puts her plate back at her side of the table)
Joey: Yeah, of course. I can control myself. (laughs 
                          uneasily and Sarah leaves the room)
Joey: (to the torte) Stop staring at me!
Joey: Why, just a tiny little...
Joey: Oh-oh!
Joey: I'm not even sorry.
Chandler: Hey.
Monica: (pointing to a picture on the table) I-Is... 
                          Is that a picture?
Erica: Yeah. It's a sonogram they took of the baby 
                          last week. I thought you might want to see it. (gives 
                          it to Monica, who looks at it for a long time, and then 
                          shows it to Chandler)
Monica: Look, doctor!
Chandler: The agency must have made some mistake. My 
                          wife is not a reverend and I'm not a doctor.
Erica: What?
Chandler: I could perform an operation on you and prove 
                          it if you'd like.
Erica: So who are you?
Chandler: Well, our names really are Monica and Chandler. 
                          We're from New York.
Monica: Yeah, but the important thing to know about 
                          us, is how much we would care for this little baby. 
                          (holds up the sonogram)
Erica: So you lied to me before?
Monica: Well, we... (makes quotation signs in the air) 
                          "bore false witness"... See I could be a reverend.
Erica: I can't believe this. 
Monica: But we were hoping that since we told you the 
                          truth that you still might consider...
Erica: Giving you my baby? You think I'd give you my 
                          child after this?
Monica: Well, you don't have to decide right now, but 
                          if you could just look at our file...
Erica: I don't want to look at your file! This is over.
Chandler: Erica wait!
Erica: I've nothing to say to you. (walks a few paces)
Chandler: You have every reason to be upset. We did 
                          lie. But only because we've been waiting and trying 
                          to have a baby for so long. Now we don't know how long 
                          it's gonna be before we can get another chance again.
Erica: Why don't you ask the reverend to pray on it?
Chandler: Erica, please. Just consider us. Ask them 
                          to see our file. Our last name's Bing. My wife's a chef 
                          and I'm in advertising.
Erica: Oh yeah. I actually liked you guys. But it doesn't 
                          matter, because what you did was wrong. (walks away 
                          again, but Chandler catches up with her again)
Chandler: But you did like us. And you should. My wife's 
                          an incredible woman. She's loving and devoted and caring. 
                          And don't tell her I said this but the woman's always 
                          right... I love my wife more than anything in this world. 
                          And I... It kills me that I can't give her a baby... 
                          I really want a kid. And when that day finally comes, 
                          I'll learn how to be a good dad. But my wife... she's 
                          already there. She's a mother... without a baby... Please?
Chandler: You still want that baby?
Monica: God bless you Chandler Bing!
Joey: (nods) So, why are you still wearing it?
Ross: Because it's soft... Hey, so how was your date?
Joey: Ooh... Not so good.
Ross: Well, looks like it's just the two of us tonight, 
                          huh old buddy?
Joey: Yeah, and you know what? We could do a lot worse.
Joey: (shouting to Ross) JOEY DOESN'T SHARE FOOD!