Chandler: (entering) Hey!
Joey: Hey!
Chandler: Hey-hey-hey. So what happened? A forest tick you off?
Chandler: Yeah!
Joey: Well, I started building one. But then I decided to take it to the next
step.
Chandler: Okay. (notices that Joey is wearing some really tight jeans) My word!
Those are snug.
Joey: Power saw kinda got away from me there.
Rachel: (joining Phoebe outside) Hey Pheebs. 
Phoebe: Hey!
Rachel: Any sign of your brother?
Rachel: I thought you only met him once?
Chandler: Does anyone else think David Copperfield is cute?
Monica: No, but he told me, he thinks your a fox.
Chandler: All right, Janice, likes him. In fact she likes him so much she put
him on her freebie list.
Joey: Her what?
Ross: Ah, the heart of every healthy relationship. Honesty, respect, and sex
with celebrities.
Chandler: Ah, Kim Basinger, Cindy Crawford, Halle Berry, Yasmine Bleeth, and ah,
Jessica Rabbit.
Chandler: I know, I know, I just always wondered if I could get her eyes to pop
out of her head.
Joey: Hey, Monica, who would yours be?
Monica: First, I need a boyfriend, then I can have a list.
Ross: Spiderman?
Rachel: Hardy Boy.
Chandler: Peter Parker.
Ross: Thank you.
Rachel: What about you honey, who would be on your list?
Chandler: (coughing) What a geek!
Phoebe: (entering) Everbody this is Frank! This is my half-brother Frank.
All: Oh, hi.
Phoebe: This is everybody. This is Ross.
Frank: How are you?
Ross: Hey.
Phoebe: Chandler.
Chandler: Hi.
Frank: Hi.
Phoebe: Joey.
Joey: Hey-hey!
Frank: Hey.
Phoebe: This is Monica.
Frank: Whoa!
Phoebe: And this is Rachel.
Rachel: Hi!
Frank: Whoa!!
Frank: Hey, how do you guys get anything done?
Rachel: Well, so, now, do you guys have a lot of big plans?
Frank: Yeah, I was thinking that maybe we could go down to Time Square and pick
up some ninja stars. And, oh, um, my friend Larry, he wants me to take a picture of a
hooker.
Joey: I know.
Joey: Calm down, do you want this unit or not?
Chandler: I do NOT want this unit!!
Chandler: Fine! (goes into his room and slams the door, then he slams the bottom
half of the door.)
Joey: Oh Monica, listen, I ah, I saw down at the hardware store, they got those
designer tiles on sale. If you ever want to redo the bathroom floor.
Monica: I highly doubt that. (they both go to the bathroom)
Joey: Oh yeah. If you ah, move your hamper, you see what color the tile used to
be. (Monica gasps) Yeah.
Joey: Relax. Here hold this (hands her his beer). This old stuff just comes
right off. (he bends down to try and lift some tile right in the middle of the floor, in
his tight pants.)
Joey: Eh! There you go.
Phoebe: (sits up) Oh, ew!
Frank: What?
Frank: What, wait, you mean like this? (does it)
Frank: Your not doing it.
Phoebe: Feburary 16th.
Frank: October 25th.
Frank: Melt stuff.
Rachel: Three of your five, what?
Rachel: Oh my God! You are giving this a lot of thought.
Chandler: All right, so who do you got it narrowed down to?
Ross: Okay, Elizabeth Hurely....
Chandler: Oooh-hoo, very attractive, forgiving.
Ross: Susan Sarandon.
Ross: And!! Isabella Rosselini.
Rachel: So?
Phoebe: Okay so, by melting, you meant melting.
Frank: Yeah.
Phoebe: So is it like art?
Frank: Yeah, you can melt art. Hey, can I use your phone?
Phoebe: Um, yeah sure. Why you wanna call your Mom?
Frank: No, I wanna melt it.
Frank: (starts laughing) Yeah!
Phoebe: Here. (gives him a fire extinguisher) Y'know, just in case.
Monica: What kind of karate is that?
Phoebe: No kind. He just makes it up.
Phoebe: Ah!!
Monica: Oh, we used to drive each other crazy playing the shadow game.
Phoebe: Oh, how do you play the shadow game?
Monica: Oh, how do you play the shadow game?
Phoebe: I just asked you.
Monica: I just asked you.
Monica: No, that is what the game is.
Phoebe: Which you just gave up really quickly.
Chandler: (entering) Have you seen Joey?
Joey: (yelling from bathroom) Hey, does somebody wanna hand me one of those
tiles.
Chandler: Yo!! Spackel boy! Get up!
Monica: Ah-ah-ah, now you started this, you will finish it.
Chandler: He started mine first!
Phoebe: Build the unit Cinderelly, lay the tile Cinderelly.
Frank: Whoa! Big octopus.
Frank: Hey, what kind of work do you do?
Frank: You-you work at one of those massage parlors?
Frank: You mean like watch?
Frank: Yeah! Hey, do Monica and Rachel work there?
Chandler: What, like a number?
Ross: (entering) Hey! 
Chandler: Hi! Bye! (runs to the bathroom)
Joey: Ooh, very official.
Ross: Oh, yeah, well y'know Chandler printed it up on his computer.
Monica: And who laminated it?
Ross: That would be me.
Rachel: All right let me see. (grabs the card) Uma Thurman, Winona Ryder,
Elizabeth Hurely, Michelle Pfieffer, and Dorothy Hammel? 
Rachel: Okay honey, you do realize she only spins like that on ice.
Frank: Ow!-Ow!-Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! Y'know, ow!
Frank: She broke my arm.
Girl: He touched my fanny.
Frank: No, she touched mine first!
Phoebe: Okay, Jasmine, can you, can you ask Mr. Whiffler if he can wait for like
five minutes.
Phoebe: Nooo! Why would you think that?
Phoebe: You really thought it was perfect?
Phoebe: Yeah, um, which ones in particular were great for you?
Frank: Well y'know about the tongue thing, y'know, and how I told you about my
likes and my dislikes...
Phoebe: Right, okay, um-mm.
Phoebe: Yeah, I guess I do, yeah.
Frank: Then I go feel your friend up and make you mad at me.
Frank: You hopped a little bit. Yeah, I really sorry.
Phoebe: Okay. All right, this is my favourite part of the weekend, right now,
this.
Frank: This?
Phoebe: Uh-huh.
Frank: Oh come on we went, we went to Time Square, we found ninja stars, I
almost got arm broken by a hooker...
Frank: Well, when I tell my friends about her she will be. 
Chandler: Okay, on three. One....Two....
Chandler: Why two?
Rachel: Oh!
Joey: All right, but in the future...
Ross: Okay!! Okay!!
Rachel: Come on!
Ross: Heavy thing, not getting lighter!
Chandler: Okay, one...two...
Joey: So we are going on two?
All: All right!! (they lift it into place, however there is one small problem,
the unit is so long that it blocks some of both of their bedroom doors.)
Chandler: Oh, good job Joe.
Chandler: Yeah-yeah, so big that it actually makes our doors look smaller! 
Phoebe: Maybe all the rulers are wrong.
Joey: Yeah, listen, before I forget that side is still wet.
Rachel: Okay sir, um-mm, let see if I got this right. Ah, so this is a half-caf,
double tall, easy hazel nut, non-fat, no foam, with whip, extra hot latte, right? (the guy
nods) Okay, great. (she starts to walk away and under her breath) You freak.
Ross: (to Gunther) Thank you.
Isabella: (to Gunther) Um, coffee to go, please.
Ross: Isabella Rosselini. (points to her)
Monica: Are you serious? (they all look) Oh my God.
Ross: Yeah, maybe.
Rachel: Oh-oh, you lie.
Rachel: Ross, it took you ten years to finally admit you liked me.
Ross: Yeah, well missy, you better be glad that list is laminated.
Ross: Okay, hold my crawler.
Rachel: Okay.
Monica: Rach, are you really gonna let him do this?
Isabella: Yeah, for you. Is that the list?
Ross: Um, yeah.
Isabella: May I see it?
Ross: Um, no.
Isabella: Come on! (grabs the list)
Ross: But, okay.
Ross: Yeah, um, okay see, you were, you were on the list but my friend, Chandler
(Chandler waves) brought up the very good point that you are international, so I bumped
you for Wynona Rider, local.
Ross: What?
Isabella: ...because I have a list of five goofy coffee house guys and yesterday
I bumped you for that guy over there. (points at a guy and leaves)
Joey: Y'know what?
Chandler: Umm?
Joey: Get out your checkbook, mister.
Chandler: Oh, I think I have the cash.
Joey: You are dogged man! I totally fit!
Joey: Thank you. Cha-ching! (Chandler starts to leave) Oh, well hello Mr.
Lincoln. Better luck next time buddy. (Chandler leaves and closes the door) And the drinks
are on me!