Rachel: What?
Chandler: Well, as old as he is in dog years, do you think Snoopy should still
be allowed to fly this thing?
Gunther: Rachel?
Rachel: Yeah.
Gunther: Do you remember when you first came here, how you spent two weeks
getting trained by another waitress?
Rachel: Oh, sure! Do you need me to train somebody new?
Gunther: (laughs) Good one. Actually, ah, Terry wants you to take the training
again, whenever.
Rachel: (to Chandler) Eh, do you believe that?
Chandler: (thinks about it) Yeah?
Ross: Just admit it Chandler, you have no backhand.
Chandler: Excuse me little one, I have a very solid backhand.
Ross: Shielding your face and shrieking like a girl... is not a backhand.
Chandler: I was shrieking... like a Marine.
Ross: I know. I feel horrible. Okay.
Chandler: (reading the paper) Says here that a muppet got whacked on Seasame
Street last night. (to Ross) Where exactly were around ten-ish?
Monica: Maybe a Hello Kitty doll, the ability to walk...
Ross: All right, see you guys. (starts to leave)
Joey: And I gotta go sell some Christmas trees.
Joey: What? Me having a job?
Phoebe: No, no, I am against innocent trees being cut down in their prime, and
their, their corpses grotesquely dressed in like tinsel and twinkly lights. (to Joey) Hey,
how do you sleep at night?
Phoebe: Really?
Gunther: What if you put them here. (sets the empty tray on another stack of
empty trays on the back counter.)
Sarah: Well, I kinda wanted to sell the cookies. The girl who sells the most
wins a trip to Spacecamp, and gets to sit in a real space shuttle.
Ross: Wow, you ah, you really like all this space stuff, huh?
Ross: I think you would have to clean a whole lot of apartments to go all the
way to India.
Ross: Huh. Well, good luck to Dad. Say, how many more boxes would you have to
sell in order to win?
Sarah: The girl who won last year sold four hundred and seventy-five.
Ross: Yeah.
Ross: Four hundred, huh? Well, that sounds do-able. (starts to get out his
wallet) How much are the boxes?
Sarah: Five dollars a box.
Ross: (puts away his wallet) And what is second prize?
Ross: Well, that makes sense.
Ross: Yeah, Sarah, anything.
Woman: (looking through her peephole, we see Ross standing in the hallway.)
Yesss?
Woman: What does that mean?
Woman: I can dial 9-1-1 at the touch of a button, y'know. Now, go away!
Woman: I can still see you!
Ross: All right!!
Phoebe: (walking up to Joey) Hey.
Joey: Hey. What, what are you doing here?
Phoebe: Well, I-I thought a lot about what you said, and um, I realilized duh,
all right maybe I was a little judgmental. Yeah, (looks at the tree) oh, but oh...
Joey: Look now, Phoebe remember, hey, their just fulfilling their Christmas....
Phoebe: Destiny.
Joey: Sure.
Phoebe: Yes.
Joey: All right.
Phoebe: You keep the old ones in the back, that is so ageist.
Joey: Well we have to make room for the fresh ones.
Phoebe: So, what happens to the old guys?
Joey: Well, they go into the chipper.
Ross: ...and these come in the shapes of your favourite Christmas characters,
Santa, Rudolph, and Baby Jesus.
Chandler: Ahh, do you have any coconut flavoured deities?
Ross: Mon?
Monica: No.
Monica: (she reaches out for it and stops) Oh God! I gotta go! (runs out)
Chandler: How... exactly are you pursuing that? Y'know other than sending out
resumes like what, two years ago?
Rachel: The fear?
Gunther: Rachel?
Rachel: Yeah.
Gunther: Remind me to review with you which pot is decaf and which is regular.
Gunther: You would think.
Gunther: What?!
Rachel: Gunther, I quit.
Ross: ....and 12, 22, 18, four... (Chandler starts laughing) What?
Chandler: I spelled out boobies.
Monica: What?
Ross: Mon, look at yourself. You have cookie on your neck.
Monica: (covers her neck) Oh God! (runs to the bathroom)
Chandler: So, how many have you sold so far?
Ross: Check this out. Five hundred and seventeen boxes!
Chandler: Oh my God, how did you do that?
Ross: Well hey, who did these resumes for ya?
Chandler: Me! On my computer.
Ross: Well you sure used a large font.
Chandler: Eh, yeah, well ah, waitress at a coffee shop and cheer squad
co-captain only took up so much room.
Chandler: Something else I might have said?
Rachel: You and your stupid fear. I hate your fear. I would like to take you and
your fear.... 
Joey: (entering, interrupting Rachel) Hey! I got great news!
Chandler: Run, Joey! Run for your life! (runs out)
Joey: What? Rachel, listen, have you ever heard of Fortunata Fashions?
Rachel: No.
Joey: Well my old man is doing a plumbing job down there and he heard they have
an opening. So, you want me to see if I can get you an interview?
Rachel: Oh my God! Yes, I would love that, oh, that is soo sweet, Joey.
Joey: Not a problem.
Rachel: Thanks.
Joey: And now for the great news.
Monica: Christmas cookie?
Joey: Pheebs, you gotta stop this, I working on commission here.
Monica: Is this the one that I threw out last year?
Ross: (to the girl sitting next to him) Hi there. How many, how many ah, did you
sell?
Ross: Hey now! That was an accident, okay.
Ross: (to himself) Not nice enough.
Leader: Charla, 278. Sorry, dear, but still good.
Ross: (to himself) Good for a scrud.
Leader: Oh, yes Elizabeth. Ah, 871.
Ross: Hi there!
Leader: Hi. And batting for Sarah, Ross Geller, 872. Although, it looks like you
bought an awful lot of cookies yourself.
Ross: Um, that is because my doctor says that I have a very serious....
nuget.... diffency.
Chandler: Tell us what happened, Brown Bird Ross.
Ross: Well, I lost. Some little girl loaned her uniform to her nineteen year old
sister, who went down to the U.S.S. Nimitz, and sold over 2,000 boxes.
Phoebe: This is the worst Christmas ever.
Chandler: Y'know what Rach, maybe you should just, y'know stay here at the
coffee house.
Ross: That word was swans.
Chandler: Well seeing that drunk Santa wet himself, really perked up my
Christmas.
Phoebe: Oh! Oh my God!
Chandler: Sure, everybody loves a kidder.
Rachel: (hanging up the phone) I got the job!
Phoebe: Oh, God bless us, everyone.
Chandler: (to Ross) Should I tell her I ordered tea?
Ross: No. 
Ross: Oh come on! Here we go! (picks her up and puts her in the chair) Stand by
for mission countdown!
Joey: (simulating an echo) Ten, ten.., nine, nine, nine....,
eight, eight, eight... (Chandler hits him in the back of the head) Okay, Blast off!