Joey: Can I see the comics?
Chandler: This is the New York Times.
Joey: Okay, may I see the comics?
Monica: Guys. I thought you were taking Ross to the game?
Monica: No! Rachel is meeting us here.
Phoebe: Oh come on, they can be in the same room.
Joey: Yeah, you shoulda been there last night.
Phoebe: Why? What happened now?
Chandler: Yeah y-you, how hard is it to say something? Rachel came over to
borrow something.
Joey: Anyway! Her and Ross just started yelling at each other.
Joey: Well, I guess he says that because they were on a break when it happened,
that she should of forgiven him by now.
Phoebe: Y'know I had a dream where Ross and Rachel were still together, they
never broke up. And we were all just like hanging out, and everyone was happy....
Joey: I had the same dream!
Phoebe: Yeah, and nobody slept with that Xerox girl. 
Joey: Oh, I had the opposite dream.
Rachel: Hey!
Rachel: Okay, let me just get a cup of coffee.
Rachel: Closer than here?
Phoebe: Okay, your highness.
Rachel: (softly) Is he here?
Chandler: No.
Rachel: Oh, well okay. Well, there you go.
Rachel: Hm-mm.
Rachel: Ohh!
Rachel: And heels.
Phoebe: Ohhh boy, do I feel bad.
Joey: Oh yeah.
Monica: Very bad.
Phoebe: Chandler what are you doing?!
Monica: Chandler!!
Chandler: (jumps back and points at the cigarette) Oh my God!
Phoebe: Why would you start again after chewing all that quitting gum?
Phoebe: Him? Him, Ross?
All: Absolutely, yeah!
Joey: (obviously cold) Hey, can you close that window Chandler? My nipples can
cut glass over here!
Chandler: Can somebody else hug him? I have to stay by the window.
Ross: No, no, no, this weekend guys!
Ross: So, for the whole weekend?
Ross: What a pity stay?
Chandler: Well, then, I might as well offer to stay.
Joey: (to Chandler and Monica) Hey, does anybody else feel bad about Ross?
Phoebe: Chandler!!
Chandler: What?
Phoebe: What does the sign say?
Chandler: Beam me up Jesus.
Chandler: Okay, well, then, I-I have to go to the bathroom.
All: Oh!
Phoebe: Please!
Monica: No Chandler no! No unscheduled stops. You can go when we stop for gas.
Joey: Oh, now I have to go!!
Chandler: Here we go. Okay, brace yourselves.
Monica: What?
Rachel: Okay.
Monica: Ow!
Rachel: No. Thank you.
Monica: (getting out) No, Rachel never pees in public restrooms.
Chandler: Oh, no-no-no-no-no-no!!
Joey: Relax okay, I-I-I can get this open. Anybody have a coat hanger?
Chandler: Oh I do! Op, no, wait a minute, I took it out of my shirt when I put
it on this morning.
Joey: Look, I just need a wire something to jimmy it. Oh hey, one of you guys
give me the underwire from your bra!
Monica: What?!
Rachel: What?!
Joey: Come on! Who has the biggest boobs?
Monica: Please!!
Joey: Whoever has the biggest boobs, has the biggest bra, therefore has the
biggest wire.
The Girls: No, not getting my bra!
Joey: If you wanna get back in the car, we need the wire, your call.
Rachel: What, no, no, no, mine are deceptively small I mean, I-I-I actually
sometimes, st-stuff my bra.
Monica: All right then, your bra would still be big.
Rachel: No, I stuff outside the bra.
Phoebe: All right, forget it, nevermind, you can have mine.
Rachel: (seeing him) Chandler, what are you doing? There is a trash can right
there.
Chandler: Well, I thought if I littered, that crying Indian might come by and
save us.
Phoebe: (finishing removing her bra) Okay, there.
Joey: Thank you Phoebe, that is very, very generous.
Joey: (opening the door) And there you go!
All: Oh, yeahhhhh!!!
Monica: Chandler!!
Chandler: At least let me smoke it to the good part.
Phoebe: Okay. (The car moves a few feet and sputters to a stop.) Oh, no!
Phoebe: Yeah, this has happened before.
Rachel: So you know how to fix it?
Phoebe: Yep. Put more gas in.
Carol: (answering the door) Hi! 
Ross: (entering) Hey.
Carol: Hey, what are you doing here?
Ross: Well, oh just ah, I was just wondering, when you and I split up, did you
get the tape that was half the last episode of M*A*S*H and half the hostages
coming home?
Ross: Ahh. (notices the table) Ooh, is this a ah, is this a bad time?
Ross: Oh! I thought you guys got married in uh, January?
Ross: Ah! (realises) Oh.
Carol: Sooo!! Anyway...
Carol: Oh God, Ross I am so sorry.
Ross: Yeah, well.
Carol: Y'know what, I want to talk to you about this so much, but we should
probably do it when we could really get into it, are you free for dinner tomorrow night?
Carol: Oh, great! Me too.
Ross: I guess it all started when Rachel got this new job. (he sits down at the
table.)
Phoebe: Okay, yeah. (to Monica and Rachel) Triple A can pick us up.
Rachel: Great!
Phoebe: Yeah, what town are we near?
Monica: Freemont. West-Westmont, ah Westburg?
Rachel: Yeah, we are definitely on Route 27.
Phoebe: Okay. (on phone) We are at a rest stop on Route 27. Okay. (to Rachel)
There is no Route 27. (listens) (to Rachel) Okay, either 93 or 76?
Rachel: Ugh, okay, well somebody will come and save us.
Monica: Who? I mean have you seen a car come by here in the last hour and a
half? I think we should call Ross, maybe he can get a car and come pick us up.
Rachel: No! No, I am not getting in a car with Ross, we will just have to live
here! 
Phoebe: But if...
Phoebe: Oh good, oh Joey and Chandler are back.
Monica: So the going for help went well?
Joey: Oh yeah, Smokey Joe here got half way to the highway and collapsed.
Chandler: I have the lung capacity of a two year old. (starts to light another
cigarette.)
Monica: Then why are you smoking?
Carol: Ah, Susan will be so pleased.
Phoebe: (answering the phone) (whispering) Ross, thank God.
Ross: Pheebs? What, why are you whispering?
Phoebe: I ate a bug.
Ross: Oh, now you want a favour?
Phoebe: Yes, please.
Carol: (running over and grabbing the phone away from Ross) (on phone) Phoebe,
hang on a second. (Hands Ross her keys) Here, take my car, go pick up your friends.
Carol: (on phone) Phoebe hang on a second Ross wants to say something. (listens)
What? (listens) (to Ross) You slept with someone else?!
Carol: You slept with another woman?
Joey: Okay, done.
Phoebe: Hi!
Rachel: What is he doing here?!
All: No! Come on!
Rachel: All right!! Fine! Fine.
Joey: Arrrghh!!
Joey: Guys, do you think we should ask Ross to come along?
Monica: I know, what about Rachel? I mean how are we even gonna ask her?
Rachel: Ask me what?
Monica: Umm, if ah, it might be okay if Ross came skiing?
Rachel: You guys are unbelievable. No! He cannot come.
Ross: Excuse me?
Ross: Oh-oh, hitting me where it hurts, my ski skills.
Monica: Here we go again.
Ross: We were on a break!
Rachel: (to Monica) What?!
Ross: Okay.
Rachel: Really Joey?
Joey: (pause) What?
Phoebe: Y'know what, but there is, there is no right or wrong, here.
Ross: Obviously not to Joey.
Joey: (pause) What?
Ross: (to Rachel) Look both, Joey and Monica feel the same way that I do.
No-no-no-no.
Chandler: Guys, guys, guess who I am?! (starts dancing around in an effort to
stop the fighting.)
Joey: Yeah, and not put us in the middle.
Rachel: Yeah.
Ross: I can.
Joey: Come on man, you drove all the way up here.
Rachel: Thank you.
Ross: Okay.
Phoebe: Maybe we can like go to a movie or something. 
Ross: Okay.
Phoebe: Or, or the rodeo!!
Ross: That would be great.
Phoebe: Okay!
Chandler: I was being Shelly Winters from The Poseidon Adventure.
Ross: I know!
Phoebe: Bye!!!
Carol: (looking through the peephole) Ugh. (opening the door) Ross!
Carol: Ahh, nooo!!
Ross: Yeah, well it came to about $112, but what the hell, just call it an even
110?
Ross: Okay.
Carol: Okay, bye!!
Ross: So they ah, they all took off, it was pretty hard watching them go,
y'know?
Carol: Yeah, okay, bye. (closes the door, turns out the lights, and runs back to
the bedroom)