A BOAT: Specifically, a garbage scow. We see it from ON HIGH, chugging down the placid but mighty Head credits play over COVERAGE of the garbage scow. No sound, except for an incongruously heroic score. The COVERAGE is a little rough, coarse-grained; along with the overbearing score it almost suggests an industrial film rather than a feature. One piece of sound the toot of the boat's horn is obviously library. And not a new library either. The garbage scow passes under a bridge spanning the broad, sluggish waters, and proceeds on to its landfill, a steaming river island. Disturbed gulls and other scavenger birds rise from where they were picking through trash. Their squawks, like the boat horn, are not quite believable as SYNC. The head credits end as the anthemic music resolves.
A KEY: We are ARCING slowly around a jailer's key on a ring that hangs from a nail. The OFFSCREEN snoring and whirring The TRACK'S SHIFTING ANGLE now makes the light catch a spider web spun between the key and the wall.
POLICE SCANNER: We DRIFT across the face of the radio. The peaceful steady hissing jumps in louder at the CUT: it is uninterrupted: a transmissionless, crimeless, misdemeanorless idle radio hiss. The snoring is also louder here. As we TRAVEL OFF the radio we are COMING ONTO a pair of feet propped up on the desktop. They belong to SHERIFF WYNER, tipped back in his chair, fingers laced on his chest, head lolling forward. As the MOVING CAMERA FINALLY ENDS on him, there is the ring of a telephone muffled, not present. It nevertheless rouses the sheriff who almost strangles on a snore as he awakes, and then rocks forward to pick up his The muffled ringing continues; the sheriff looks, puzzled, at the phone. Now the ringing stops and we hear a muffled voice next door:
SHERIFF WYNER: Sheriff Wyner.
SHERIFF WYNER: Afternoon, Miz Munson.
MRS. MUNSON: Afternoon, Sheriff. You know the Funthes boy?
SHERIFF WYNER: .Mackatee Funthes?
MRS. MUNSON: No no, WeeMack! Mackatee's eldest!
SHERIFF WYNER: Oh yeah, believe I do.
MRS. MUNSON: Well, he's a good boy but he done gone down to the Costco in Pascagoula and got hisself a blastah and he been playin' that music!
SHERIFF WYNER: MRS. MUNSON SHERIFF WYNER MRS. MUNSON
MRS. MUNSON: SHERIFF WYNER MRS. MUNSON
SHERIFF WYNER: MRS. MUNSON
MRS. MUNSON: "Left my wallet in El Segundo!"
SHERIFF WYNER: MRS. MUNSON
MRS. MUNSON: Songs like that!
SHERIFF WYNER: MRS. MUNSON
MRS. MUNSON: Hippity-hop music!
SHERIFF WYNER: I could
MRS. MUNSON: You know they call it hippity-hop music, but it don't make me wanna go No ma'am
SHERIFF WYNER: No ma'am
MRS. MUNSON: And Othar don't like that music
SHERIFF WYNER: It's been disturbin' Othar then, has How could it help but do! That kind of music! You know what they call colored folks in them songs? Have you got any idea?
MRS. MUNSON: How could it help but do! That kind of music! You know what they call colored folks in them songs? Have you got any idea?
SHERIFF WYNER: I don't think I
MRS. MUNSON: NIGGAZ! I don't wanna say the word. I won't say it twice, I'll tell you that. I say it one time.
SHERIFF WYNER: Yes ma'am.
MRS. MUNSON: In the course a swearin' out my NIGGAZ! Two thousand years after Jesus! Thirty years after Martin Luther King! The age of Montel! Sweet lord a-mercy, izzat where we at?
SHERIFF WYNER: MRS. MUNSON
MRS. MUNSON: NIGGAZ! Two thousand years after Jesus! Thirty years after Martin Luther King! The age of Montel! Sweet lord a-mercy, izzat where we at?
SHERIFF WYNER: MRS. MUNSON
MRS. MUNSON: WeeMack down to Pascagoula buyin' a big thumpy stereo player?! So he can listen to that word in the house next to mine? Sheriff, you gotta help that boy!
SHERIFF WYNER: Help him?
MRS. MUNSON: You gotta take an innarest! EXTEND that helpin' hand!
SHERIFF WYNER: ( dubious ) Well, we're here to help.
MRS. MUNSON: Well God bless ya. Don't wanna be tried and found wantin'.
SHERIFF WYNER: No ma'am.
MRS. MUNSON: Many many tunkalow parzen, Sheriff Wyner. Many many tunkalow parzen!
SHERIFF WYNER: Many what ma'am?
MRS. MUNSON: You have been tried and found wanting. Don't want that writin' on the wall!
SHERIFF WYNER: No ma'am
MRS. MUNSON: Feast a Balthazar!
SHERIFF WYNER: MRS. MUNSON
MRS. MUNSON: John The Apostle said: Behold there is a stranger in our midst, come to destroy us!
SHERIFF WYNER: Yes ma'am.
MRS. MUNSON: He's a good man. Just needs instruction. Dog, you in peoples'
MRS. MUNSON: You need somethin' to eat, Angel?
MRS. MUNSON: Mm. gizzards.
MRS. MUNSON: Othar, I went'n complained about WeeMack, I hope it'll do some good. That boy hangin' by a thread! Over the pit! Fiery pit! "I Left My Wallet in El Segundo"!
MRS. MUNSON: .Sixty-seven years of life, forty- six years of marriage, you mean to tell me you never one time suffered from piles? It's the human condition, most humans anyway. Like that ball player said: world's got two kinds of folks them that's got piles and them that's gonna get 'em. But you was always healthy as an ox.
MRS. MUNSON: .Passed on before you got piles. Mmmmhmm. Thank the Lord you wasn't sick. You don't wanna sicken 'n die. No, you wanna pass nice 'n peaceful. go to sleep one night, wake up in the glory land. woof.
MRS. MUNSON: .Well who's that now, Pickles?
MRS. MUNSON: MRS. MUNSON
PICKLES!: MRS. MUNSON
DORR: MRS. MUNSON
MRS. MUNSON: Go get 'im!
DORR: I do beg your pardon?
MRS. MUNSON: Go get Pickles, I didn't let 'im
DORR: ( tasting the name )
MRS. MUNSON: Oh, he's up the tree again. Your gonna have to shimmy on up.
DORR: I am so terribly sorry, madam. But won't the feline eventually tire of his lonely perch and, pining for his master's affection, return on his own initiative?
MRS. MUNSON: Huh? No, he won't come down less you fetch him. He'd set there til Gabriel blows his horn if someone didn't shimmy up. Up with you now!
DORR: Well then couldn't we perhaps offer him kitty treats and enticements, or if not foodstuffs perhaps squeaky little toys of the kind formerly manufactured in Hong Kong but now produced in the other so-called "Little Tigers".
DORR: .of the Pacific Rim? The point bein', do we have to actually ascend the tree
MRS. MUNSON: Look, I don't want no doubletalk. If you ain't gonna fetch him down I guess I gotta call the po-lice.
DORR: His face darkens.
MRS. MUNSON: They ain't gonna be happy. Every time they come fetch him down they swear they won't do it no more.
DORR: No need to call the authorities. I did this often as a youth why, I was a positive lemur. Here, kitty. Don't upset him, now!
MRS. MUNSON: Don't upset him, now!
DORR: I wouldn't dream of it. harmless little felix domesticus. Come to
DORR: I thank you, madam, for your act of Well you let him out.
MRS. MUNSON: Well you let him out.
DORR: I certainly did and I do apologize no end. Allow me to present myself, uh, formally: Goldthwait Higginson Dorr, Ph.D.
MRS. MUNSON: What, like Elmer?
DORR: Beg your pardon, ma'am?
MRS. MUNSON: No no, Ph.D. is a mark of academic attainment. It is a degree of higher learning bestowed, in my case, in recognition of my mastery of the antique languages of Latin and Greek. I also hold a number of other advanced degrees including the baccalaureate from a school in Paris, France, called the Sorbonne.
DORR: No no, Ph.D. is a mark of academic attainment. It is a degree of higher learning bestowed, in my case, in recognition of my mastery of the antique languages of Latin and Greek. I also hold a number of other advanced degrees including the baccalaureate from a school in Paris, France, called the Sorbonne.
MRS. MUNSON: Sore bone, well I guess that's appropriate. You ever study at Bob Jones University?
DORR: I have not had that privilege.
MRS. MUNSON: It's a bible school, only the finest in the country. I send them five dollars every month.
DORR: That's very gener
MRS. MUNSON: I'm on their mailing list. I'm an They list my name in the newsletter, every issue. I got the literature here, you wanna examine it.
DORR: MRS. MUNSON
MRS. MUNSON: They list my name in the newsletter, every issue. I got the literature here, you wanna examine it.
DORR: Perhaps when my head has recovered from its. buffeting. Mrs. Munson, are you at all curious as to why I darkened your door, as the expression has it, on this lovely camelia-scented I was wondering, til you let Pickles out. Then in all the excitement
MRS. MUNSON: I was wondering, til you let Pickles out. Then in all the excitement
DORR: I quite understand. The fact is that I saw the sign on your window advertising a room to let, and it is the only such sign among the houses of this charming, charming street.
MRS. MUNSON: Yeah, I got a room. I'm lookin' for a quiet tenant. Fifteen dollars a I quite understand. Madam, you are addressing a man who is quiet and yet not quiet, if I may offer a
DORR: I quite understand. Madam, you are addressing a man who is quiet and yet not quiet, if I may offer a
DORR: .Perhaps you can show me the room, Mrs. Munson, and allow me to explain.
MRS. MUNSON: Well you can see the room, but I don't like double-talk.
DORR: You see, madam, I am currently on sabbatical from the institution where I teach the University of Mississippi at Hattiesburg. I am taking a year off to indulge my passion I don't believe that is too strong a word for the music of the Renaissance. I perform in and have the honor of directing a period instrument ensemble that performs at Renaissance fairs and other cultural fora.
DORR: .thoo-out central and southern Mississippi. We perform on the instruments for which the music was originally composed, in the belief that. that. Why, this is lovely.
MRS. MUNSON: Wait a minute. You got some kind of
DORR: The word "band" would be, in this context, something of an anachronism. Though we do play together hence the word "ensemble" the nature of the music is such that one would hesitate to apply the epithet "band" with its connotations of jangling rhythm and ear-popping amplification.
MRS. MUNSON: So you don't play hippity-hop, "I Left My Wallet in El Segundo," songs with the titles spelt all funny?
DORR: Madam, I shudder. I quake. The revulsion I feel for modern popular music, and all other manifestations of contemporary decay, is, I have no doubt, the equal of y'own. Why, we play music that was composed to the greater glory of God. Devotional music. Church music.
MRS. MUNSON: Gospel music?
DORR: Well-inspired by the gospels, certainly. The vintage, of course, is no more recent than the Rococo.
MRS. MUNSON: Rococo, huh? Well, I guess that'd be But I certainly don't propose to inflict our rehearsals on you. May I enquire do you have a root cellar?
DORR: But I certainly don't propose to inflict our rehearsals on you. May I enquire do you have a root cellar?
DORR: Yes, yes, yes, this looks promising.
MRS. MUNSON: Little dank, ain't it?
DORR: Oh, indeed, but that only improves the acoustics.
DORR: .Marvelous. These earthen walls are ideal for baffling the higher registers of the, uh, lute and, uh, sackbutt. That's why so much music of the cinquecento was played in crypts and catacombs. Yes, this will do nicely. .This is perfect. This is more than perfect. I can scarcely contain my glee.
DORR: .This is perfect. This is more than perfect. I can scarcely contain my glee.
MRS. MUNSON: You containing it okay.
DORR: Allow me to pay you a week in advance. Allow me to pay you two weeks in advance. Allow me to pay you a month in advance. I cannot countenance the thought of these charming apartments being tenanted by someone unappreciative of their special je ne sais quoi.
MRS. MUNSON: That would be a shame.
WIDER: shows two youngish black men in the khaki uniforms of custodians. Emptying the wastebasket is WEEMACK-MACKATEE FUNTHES. He is instructing GAWAIN MACSAM.
WEEMACK: .You wouldn't believe this shit, sometimes even out here on the casino floor you gonna find sanitary napkin shit stuck there, Tucks, I don't know what the fuck people do while they're gambling here man.
GAWAIN: I ain't peelin' funky shit with my human hands, man. That's a prescription for disease and viruses and shit, attackin' y'insides.
WEEMACK: You gotta do it. Mr. Gudge checks everything. Man is a motherfuck. Shit looka this.
WEEMACK: .You keep an eye out, man. I found a hundred-dollar chip once.
GAWAIN: Fuck that, man. I ain't pawin' through used Tucks for a fi' dollar chip.
WEEMACK: I said it was a hundred.
GAWAIN: Man, your guts gonna turn to soup'n leak outcha fuckin' asshole.
SERVICE HALL: The cart jitters loudly on the dimpled plastic floor.
WEEMACK: This tunnel leads back onto land. To the office for all the people work for Mannex. Mannex Corporation. Owns the Lady Luck 'n three other boats.
WEEMACK: .This is where they think on their corporate shit, Gudge and them.
WEEMACK: .The lights is ugly but it ain't as many Tucks.
WEEMACK: .YO, motherfuck! Lemme in!
WEEMACK: Kiss my ass.
WEEMACK: This is where they count the dough. You try to take any of it Elron there shoot your ass.
WEEMACK: .This place is a fuckin' pigsty. You a pig, man, nothin' but a squeaky ol' motherfuckin' pig.
WEEMACK: .You got fuckin' Kocoa Krispies in ya uniform man, still got breakfast there and you eatin' motherfuckin' .You a disgrace before motherfuckin'
WEEMACK: .You a disgrace before motherfuckin'
WEEMACK: .You a motherfuck oh, hello Mr. Gudge, how we be this mornin'?
GUDGE: Funthes. How's the new man?
WEEMACK: He is a cleaning motherfucker, man!
GUDGE: Is that a fact.
HIGH ANGLE: It is a ruin of a field; charred trees point bare and gnarled limbs toward a gray sky; smoke drifts across the desolate Something is bounding towards us from the deep background. We BOOM DOWN as it approaches: a bulldog, running avidly toward us on its stumpy little legs. An OFFSCREEN male voice ( CLARK PANCAKE ):
PANCAKE: .Scrub two! Scrub three! Four,
DIRECTOR: A man in a Hemingway field-jacket with multiple pockets, and also a loaded utility belt, trots up toward him, his belt jangling as he runs. This is CLARK PANCAKE. Pancake is a florid beer-bellied man in his late fifties. He has a full blond-grey Grizzly Adams beard and wears multi- pocketed shorts that form an ensemble with his Hemingway The director is angry.
DIRECTOR: .The goddamn thing's canteen fell off. It would have been a good take.
PANCAKE: Okay. Okay. We're prepared for that. . Mountain, bring Otto with the
PANCAKE: . Mountain, bring Otto with the
DIRECTOR: What the hell is this?
PANCAKE: World War I vintage gas mask. It's authentic. Strapped on, of course, so it can't fall off. The animal is free to be as active as he wants, doesn't inhibit his movement, and I think it really sells the whole doughboy thing
DIRECTOR: It looks like a fucking joke.
PANCAKE: The director squints at him:
DIRECTOR: Pancake comes out of his trance, or whatever it was:
PANCAKE: No, nothing, uh. you're absolutely right, the gas mask is a whimsical How the hell does it eat when it gets to the Kennel Rations?
DIRECTOR: How the hell does it eat when it gets to the Kennel Rations?
PANCAKE: Well, you're absolutely right–-
DIRECTOR: Don't let the client see this.
PANCAKE: Of course not, that would be Or the Humane fucker.
DIRECTOR: Or the Humane fucker.
PANCAKE: No no
DIRECTOR: They'll shut the fucking spot down, Pancake. Put the goddamn canteen back on. That says he's a soldier. Dented tin canteen. Just tie the damn thing to his collar.
PANCAKE: Easiest thing in the world. I just thought but the canteen is much better. Good concept. Let's go with What's he doing?
DIRECTOR: What's he doing?
PANCAKE: Well, he's uh. Just breathe normally, Otto.
DIRECTOR: The fucking dog can't breathe.
PANCAKE: Oh, he can breathe, that thing is just breathe normally, Otto.
DIRECTOR: The fucking dog cannot breathe! Get that fucking thing off him!
PANCAKE: Of course. Easiest thing in the world.
PANCAKE: .It's on good and tight, I, uh. Just breathe normally, Otto.
DIRECTOR: Get the fucking thing off him!
PANCAKE: Don't have my Leatherman. Mountain! Give me your Leatherman! Chop chop!
DIRECTOR: Get the fucking thing off him! Chitra, make sure the Humane fucker doesn't come over here! Bring him to craft
PANCAKE: Good idea! Ice water, treats-–
DIRECTOR: Not the dog, you idiot! The Humane fucker! Distract him!
PANCAKE: Right! Of course!
DIRECTOR: Oh my god, he's bleeding!
PANCAKE: No, that's me I the Leatherman. here we go.
DIRECTOR: Put up a couple solids here I don't want the client seeing this!
PANCAKE: Come on, Otto!
DIRECTOR: Otto is fucking dead!
PANCAKE: Mountain, have electric run me a stinger! Don't give up on me, Otto! Mountain, I need two live leads!
MOUNTAIN GIRL: Clark, the gennie's a hundred yards Goddamnit! Otto's gonna have brain damage in about ninety seconds! Okay! .Kiss of life!
PANCAKE: Goddamnit! Otto's gonna have brain damage in about ninety seconds! Okay! .Kiss of life!
PANCAKE: .Kiss of life!
POV: We are looking out from inside a football helmet; we hear the super-present breathing of the helmet's occupant. Just over the breathing we can hear the muffled shouting of a snap count. We are in a crouch position looking downfield. At the call of "Hike!" we and everyone on the field spring into action. We sprint downfield, the breathing becoming even louder. A very big person downfield is sprinting toward us. After several yards, still on the move, we PAN quickly around to look back for the quarterback. Barely visible among converging bodies, he is releasing the football toward someone Easing up on the run we PAN BACK around to look downfield just as the oncoming defender is upon us and CRUNCH slams into us. A STROBING PAN leaves us looking up at the sky. Our loud breathing has stopped. After a long beat the breathing resumes with a raggedy labored inhale. It continues irregularly. Another helmeted player appears above us to peer down into our helmet. He extends a hand to help us up.
HUDDLE: We are looking back and forth around the circle at our gathered teammates.
QUARTERBACK: Delta thirty-seven. On four!
TEAM: LINE OF SCRIMMAGE Lined up opposite us is a snarling defender. Once again, over loud breathing, we can just hear the shouted At "Hike!" we straighten to meet the defensive lineman lunging at us. His mouthpiece clatters against ours and in horrific CLOSE-UP he strains against us, his animal gurgles of effort audible over our own ragged breath. With a primal roar from the defenseman our POV tips back and up, BOOMING DOWN to stop with a CRUNCH against the ground, staring up. Once again our breathing has stopped. After a beat a foot is planted on our helmet as a looming running back steps on us in his charge downfield. He is pursued by defenders some of whom leap over us and some of whom by the sound of it step on various body parts.
HUDDLE: The same back-and-forth PAN.
QUARTERBACK: Okay, Epsilon twenty-two! You the man!. Hey! BUTTHEAD! You the man!
QUARTERBACK: You the man!
TEAM: LINE OF SCRIMMAGE The same breathing and count. On "Hike!" we sprint downfield. The same distant defender sprinting toward us. We hear low but very present a dismayed:
BONK!: It bounces off our mouth guard and flies up.
CRUNCH!: We are hit by the defender. We once again land face-up. Very steeply FORESHORTENED, right over us, we see the defender juggling the live ball. With a moan, our own hand reaches weakly up towards the ball and the high, distant defender. He finally gathers in the ball and securely tucks it, and starts back upfield. We climb wearily to our feet. We look back upfield just in time to see the defender start an elaborate victory dance in the end zone. He pauses for a moment to point a gloved hand directly at us, then resumes his strut. Shouting from the sidelines brings our PANNING attention The coach, face twisted with fury, is shouting at us and using his clipboard to wave us off the field. We trot toward the sidelines. All of our teammates stare at us –- some in shock, some in anger, some in pity. At the sideline bench our POV swings round as we seat ourself. A hand reaches up to the mouth guard to pull off the helmet and we
POV: The COACH is striding up, swinging his clipboard at the camera: with a loud CRUNCH! it brings on:
BLACK: EXT. MINI-MALL / HI-HO DONUT - DAY HIGH ANGLE It is a typical sunbaked concrete strip mall with a Seven- Eleven, a launderette, and a Hi-Ho Donut. The Hi-Ho Donut sign shows a pink donut with sprinkles and says in much smaller lettering: And Croissants. A beat-up Impala pulls into the lot, pulsing hip-hop music. After a long rumbling idle the ignition is killed. Both front doors open. Two BLACK KIDS get out and look around with a manner that is if anything too casual.
HIGH ANGLE: It is a typical sunbaked concrete strip mall with a Seven- Eleven, a launderette, and a Hi-Ho Donut. The Hi-Ho Donut sign shows a pink donut with sprinkles and says in much smaller lettering: And Croissants. A beat-up Impala pulls into the lot, pulsing hip-hop music. After a long rumbling idle the ignition is killed. Both front doors open. Two BLACK KIDS get out and look around with a manner that is if anything too casual.
YOUTH #1: All right Dragon Lady, give us all the fuckin' money!
YOUTH #1: We want that donut money!
VIETNAMESE WOMAN: Yao gin nyap!
YOUTH #2: Okay papa-san, we want that donut And we ain't fuckin' around, Mr. Hi-
YOUTH #1: And we ain't fuckin' around, Mr. Hi-
VIETNAMESE WOMAN: The two youths look at her briefly. Nothing else is The drunk looks up from his paper bag.
YOUTH #2: Look, this fuckin' thing, it ain't complicated. You give us all the fuckin money, you don't get shot in the head, you make more donuts, get more money. That's how it works,
YOUTH #1: Give us the money!
YOUTH #1: .You got three fuckin' seconds. You understand one-two-three? I'm gonna count one-two-three and then shoot. Okay? Three sec–- huh!
YOUTH #1: ( very nasal ) His fingers are way the fuck up my GET. YA FINGAS. OUT. THE MAN'S. NOSE!
YOUTH #2: GET. YA FINGAS. OUT. THE MAN'S. NOSE!
MAN'S. NOSE!: The General still impassively sucks on his cigarette. The first youth is on the verge of tears:
YOUTH #1: I think they're in my brain, man.
YOUTH #2: He raises his gun to start firing. As he does so the General uses his hook-hold on the other youth's nose to slam his head backwards, down into some The door opens and a customer walks in, a semi-elderly lady with a cane. Youth #2, eyes rolling, wildly swings to cover the door, then back to the General who has his friend's head pressed into the Fancies, then uncertainly over to the Vietnamese woman who is loudly yelling at him in Vietnamese. Cigarette still dangling from his lower lip, the General calmly plucks a pot of coffee from the coffee warmer and tosses it into Youth #2's face. Youth #2 screams.
MOTHERFUCK!: He raises his gun to start firing. As he does so the General uses his hook-hold on the other youth's nose to slam his head backwards, down into some The door opens and a customer walks in, a semi-elderly lady with a cane. Youth #2, eyes rolling, wildly swings to cover the door, then back to the General who has his friend's head pressed into the Fancies, then uncertainly over to the Vietnamese woman who is loudly yelling at him in Vietnamese. Cigarette still dangling from his lower lip, the General calmly plucks a pot of coffee from the coffee warmer and tosses it into Youth #2's face. Youth #2 screams.
HIGH ANGLE: The car is still pulsing hip-hop music. Youth #2 stumbles out of the Hi-Ho, hands covering his face and sinks to his INT. HI-HO DONUT - DAY The General now has the first youth's face pressed into the Fancies from behind. Without disturbing his smoking, the General repeatedly kicks the youth in the ass. His wife, muttering irritably in Vietnamese, is wheeling a water bucket and mop to where the floor is covered with INT. CHURCH - DAY At the CUT many voices are swelling in a song of worship. It is a black Baptist church, and the music has great energy. The white-robed choir finishes singing; a preacher takes the Shouts of "That's right!"
PREACHER: I know you all remember that when Moses came down the mountain, carrying the word a God, come down that Sinai peak, he caught those Israelites red- handed. What he catch 'em doin'? He caught 'em worshipping a golden calf.
PREACHER: .He caught 'em with their backs turned on God!
PREACHER: .He caught 'em worshipping a FALSE God! A God of EARTHLY things! He caught them Israelites in DECLINE!
PREACHER: .Because backslidin' is DECLINE, brothers and sisters! You hear talk these days, and I know you've heard this talk, you hear talk of DECLINE, well all that means is we done turned our back on God!
PREACHER: .People say civilization doin' this, civilization doin' that, civilization in DECLINE! Well it ain't no civilization! It ain't no them! It's US, brothers and sisters!
PREACHER: .It's what's in our hearts, each and every one of us when we like them Israelites! Slidin' awa-a-a-ay down that Godly slope, slippin' and slidin' toward the mire and muck a the stinkhole of greed that's
DECLINE!: "That's decline!" The CONTINUING TRACK brings us onto Mrs. Munson, wearing, like most of her peers, an oversized hat; hers is adorned with a great deal of plastic fruit.
PREACHER: .And what did Moses do when he saw those declinin' backslidin' never- mindin' sinners?
PREACHER: .Moses SMOTE those sinners in his wrath yes he did!
PREACHER: .Y'all know what smote is! I smite! You smite! He smites! We done smote!
PREACHER: .To smite is to go UPSIDE the head! .Because sometimes, brothers and sisters, that is the ONLY way!
PREACHER: .Because sometimes, brothers and sisters, that is the ONLY way!
PREACHER: .To smite is to reMIND! We got to STOP that decline! And scramble back UP to the face a the almighty Gyod! .'Stead a worshippin' that GOLDEN calf, that earthly TRASH on that GARBAGE island! That GARBAGE island in that shadowland WAY outside the Kingdom a God!
PREACHER: .'Stead a worshippin' that GOLDEN calf, that earthly TRASH on that GARBAGE island! That GARBAGE island in that shadowland WAY outside the Kingdom a God!
PREACHER: .That GARBAGE island where scavenger birds feast on the bones a the backslidin' damned!
PREACHER: .And so, let us pray.
WOMAN #1: You preach a wonderful sermon, Brother Why thank you, Sister Rose.
PREACHER: Why thank you, Sister Rose.
MRS. MUNSON: That man has a lot to say.
WOMAN #1: Yes he does.
MRS. MUNSON: And every word of it the truth.
WOMAN #2: Mm-mm. Jesus well pleased with him.
WOMAN #3: Deed he is.
PREACHER: Oh now ladies.
WOMAN #3: Pleased as he can be.
WOMAN #1: MRS. MUNSON
MRS. MUNSON: Stout, too.
WOMAN #1: Oh now you gracious ladies.
PREACHER: Oh now you gracious ladies.
MRS. MUNSON: It was a good sermon. That man has a lot to say.
MRS. MUNSON: And the choir was all in good voice.
MRS. MUNSON: .Who could that
DORR: My dear Mrs. Munson, I do so hope this is not an inopportune time for our first practice
MRS. MUNSON: Somebody die?
DORR: I beg your Oh!
DORR: .No no, no bereavement, though it is so kind of you to enquire. No, the hearse is simply a vehicle commodious enough to accommodate all of the members of our ensemble. And of course our instruments, contrived in an age ignorant of
DORR: .Let me introduce you to my friends, my colleagues, these devoted and passionate musicians. This is Gawain MacSam, our bassoonist.
DORR: .General Nguyen Pham Doc, viola da No smoking in this house. So sorry.
MRS. MUNSON: No smoking in this house. So sorry.
GENERAL: So sorry.
DORR: .Clark Pancake a multi- instrumentalist, but with his remarkable embosser Clark specializes in wind instruments, and is especially accomplished on the French horn.
DORR: .And, finally, Aloysius "Lump" Hudson. Lump is our sackbuttist and thank you, Lump I see you've also brought my fiddle.
LUMP: Here's your fiddle, Doctor.
MRS. MUNSON: You ain't gonna make a racket, are Oh no. Oh no no no no no. No, we shall recuse ourselves to the basement where we shall be I think here the expression is uniquely
DORR: Oh no. Oh no no no no no. No, we shall recuse ourselves to the basement where we shall be I think here the expression is uniquely
DORR: .as quiet as the crypt.
MRS. MUNSON: INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - DAY The General stands stock still, his nose an inch away from the earthen wall, studying it, squinting through the smoke of the cigarette pinched between his lips. The rest of the men are opening their cases and taking out the instruments. Gawain's case contains, however, not a musical instrument but a boombox and several tapes. He loads one of the tapes into the machine.
DORR: What do you think, General? Present any problems?
DORR: .Good then.
DORR: .All right, gentlemen, why don't we all crowd around and go over the
DORR: .This, gentlemen, is the Lady Luck, gambling den, cash cow, Sodom of the Mississippi delta and the focus of our little exercise. Here is Orchard Street. .and here is the residence of Marva Munson, the charming lady whom y'all met moments ago. Gentlemen.
DORR: .and here is the residence of Marva Munson, the charming lady whom y'all met moments ago. Gentlemen.
DORR: .You. are. here. Now. This brings us to this square.
DORR: .Gentlemen, I believe you are all aware that the Solons of the State of Mississippi, to wit, its legislature, have decreed that no gaming establishment shall be erected within its borders upon dry land. They may, however, legally float upon any watercourse defining a state boundary. But while the gambling activity itself is restricted to riverboats, no such restriction applies to the functions ancillary to this cash besotted bidnis. The casino's offices, locker rooms, facilities to cook and clean, and most importantly its counting houses- the reinforced, secret, and super secure repositories of the lucre may all be situated. wherever. Gawain where is wherever?
GAWAIN: Say wha?
DORR: Where is the money?
GAWAIN: Oh. End of every shift pit boss brings the cash down to the hold of the ship in the locked cash box; once a day all the cash boxes're moved to the counting room.
DORR: And where is the counting room?
GAWAIN: Well, uh. in that square there. Where you pointing.
DORR: And what, to flog a horse that if not at this point dead is in mortal danger of expirin', does the dotted square represent?
GAWAIN: .Offices. Underground.
DORR: Underground. Mmm. During the casino's hours of operation the door to the counting room is fiercely guarded, and the door itself is of redoubtable Pittsburgh steel; when the casino is closed the entire underground complex is locked up and the armed guard retreats to the casino's main entrance. There, then, far from the guard, reposes the money, cosseted behind a five-inch-thick steel portal, yes, but the walls, gentlemen, the walls of that room, are but humble masonry, behind which is only the soft loamy soil deposited over the centuries by Ol' Man, the meanderin' Mississip', as it fanned its way back and forth across this great alluvial plain.
DORR: .This earth.
DORR: .Any questions?
DORR: .Yes, Lump?
LUMP: What, uh. what does "cosseted"
DORR: The General here, whose curriculum vitae compahends massive tunneling experience thoo the soil of his native French-Indochina, will direct our little ol' tunnelin' operation.
DORR: .Clark Pancake, while a master of none, is a jack of all those trades corollary to our aim. He will be doin' such fabricatin' and demolition work as our little caper shall
PANCAKE: Happy to be on board.
DORR: Gawain is the proverbial "inside man". He has managed to secure a berth on the custodial staff of the Lady Luck, thereby placin' himself in a position to perform certain chores whose precise nature needn't detain us here, but whose performance shall guide this expedition to its happy conclusion.
GAWAIN: Ya damn skippy.
DORR: And this brings us to Lump. To look at Lump you might wonder, what function could he possibly fill, what specialized expertise could he possibly offer, to our merry little ol' band a miscreants. Well gentlemen, in a project of such magnitude and such risks, it is traditional nay, it is imperative to enlist the services of a hooligan, a goon, an ape, a physical brute, who will be our security, our fist, our batterin' ram. Lump is our blunt instrument, and on all our behalfs I wish him a warm Mississippi welcome.
LUMP: Thanks, Professor.
DORR: Well gentlemen, here you are, men of different backgrounds and differing talents, men with, in fact only two things in common: one, you all saw fit to answer my little advertisement in the Memphis Scimitar, and, two, you are all going to be, in consequence, very very incredibly rich. Let us revel in our adventure, gentlemen. Let us make beautiful music together. And above all, gentlemen, let us keep it to ourselves. What we say in this root cellar, let it stay in this root There's no "I" in "team".
LUMP: There's no "I" in "team".
DORR: .Lump has a very excellent point.
MRS. MUNSON: That's okay, don't stop on account of me. No no, madam, we were about to take a break anyway. The glissandi on this particular piece are technically very demanding and I think we would all welcome a moment of relaxation.
DORR: No no, madam, we were about to take a break anyway. The glissandi on this particular piece are technically very demanding and I think we would all welcome a moment of relaxation.
MRS. MUNSON: Huh. I just thought you might like to see-what a you gotten up to, honey? Why you sweatin' like that.
LUMP: I, uh.
GAWAIN: That man plays one bitch barrelful a sackbutt. Ain't no one can blow the tenor sackbutt like Lump, hoowee! goes at that thing like it was a pu uh, like it was a woman! Goddamn! He
MRS. MUNSON: You mind! I don't want that kind of talk in my home, even in the root cellar. This is a Christian house, boy, none of that hippity-hop Sadly, Gawain is given to
DORR: Sadly, Gawain is given to
MRS. MUNSON: Sometimes it's the only way!
MRS. MUNSON: .I'm tryin' to help you, son!
WHAP!: MRS. MUNSON
MRS. MUNSON: .Better yaself!
DORR: As well you should, ma'am. But Gawain at times is so far transported by his love of the music of the early Renaissance as to
MRS. MUNSON: Don't make no never-mind he's I understand your
DORR: I understand your
MRS. MUNSON: You been smokin'?
DORR: Certainly not, madam. I understand your indignation. And I was offering explanation, not excuse. I myself am offended by those who cannot find the proper words to express themselves and have recourse to
GAWAIN: Don't you be explainin' me, dawg! You can't look into my mind, cape Yes, yes.
DORR: Yes, yes.
DORR: .A fiery lad! But then Youth is fiery! A fact often remarked upon by the poets of the Romantic era.
MRS. MUNSON: My youth I was in church, I wasn't walkin' around fiery. Youth ain't no excuse for nothin'! Well, anyway. only came down to show you the fife.
MRS. MUNSON: .Othar's fife. He burned his own.
DORR: .Did he?
MRS. MUNSON: Mm-hm. I thought maybe bein' a musical man you'd be interested.
DORR: Oh, I am indeed
MRS. MUNSON: Cut it himself and burned the holes. Israelites called it a kalil.
DORR: MRS. MUNSON
MRS. MUNSON: Kalil, fife, same thing. You can read about it in the Bible. Ain't nothin' new under the sun.
DORR: Indeed not.
MRS. MUNSON: Gone these twenty years. He was some kind of man.
MRS. MUNSON: .Blowed the kalil.
DORR: .I don't suppose Othar ever turned his hand or, uh, heh-heh-heh, turned his lip to the shofar?
DORR: .The ceremonial ram's horn, sounded by the priests of the Hebrews?
MRS. MUNSON: I don't know nothin' 'bout that. Othar didn't study no shofar, to the extent a my knowledge. The kalil was good enough for my Othar.
MRS. MUNSON: .Some kind of man.
GAWAIN: .Don't let this uniform fool ya
GAWAIN: You don't need to be gamblin', honey, you lookin' at a sure thing. They call me Mr. 21, baby, 'cause that's how I measure up. I am the original black Jack, honey, accept no substitutions. You can pull my lever all day long, sweet mama, I ain't never gonna come up lemons. That's right, sugar, you can blow on my dice any ol' time.
GAWAIN: But Mr. Gudge, she had an ass that could pull a bus. This lady was fine, fine, dandy, divine.
GUDGE: I don't care how big her ass was, MacSam. You're fired.
GAWAIN: Say what?
GUDGE: There is no fraternizing with customers on the Lady Luck. Clean out your locker.
GAWAIN: But Gudge–-
GUDGE: Get out of here. You're fired.
GAWAIN: You can't fire me. I sue your ass!
GUDGE: Sue me? For what?
GAWAIN: Sue you for fuckin' punitive damages, Punitive damages.
GUDGE: Punitive damages.
GAWAIN: Ya damn skippy. I know you firin' my ass 'cause I'm black!
GUDGE: Everyone on the custodial staff is black, MacSam. Your replacement's gonna be black. His replacement will no doubt be black.
GAWAIN: Fuckin' judge is gonna be black, motherfucker, that's who gonna be black! You gonna stand tall before the man!
DORR: Oh my. Oh my my my my my. This is a severe setback. I am distraught. I am more than distraught, I am devastated. Oh my, this is quite the monkey-wrench heaved into the meticulously engineered construct of our little escapade.
LUMP: Yeah, it fucks things up.
DORR: I am beside myself. I am at a positive loss for words.
GAWAIN: You still talkin' okay though.
WAITRESS: Have you all decided? Oh madam, we must have waffles. We must all have waffles forthwith!
DORR: Oh madam, we must have waffles. We must all have waffles forthwith!
DORR: .Oh we must think. We must all have waffles and think, each and every one of us to the very best of his ability! Perhaps if you apologized to the man and gave him flowers, or perhaps a fruit basket, with a card depicting a misty seascape and inscribed with a sentiment.
GAWAIN: Shit, man, it ain't about apologizin'! He fired me 'cause I'm black!
PANCAKE: He can't do that. You could sue him. Open and shut case.
GAWAIN: Fuckin' A.
PANCAKE: This is not 1952.
GAWAIN: Man's a fuckin' bigot.
DORR: Well then, perhaps, surely, a chocolate assortment has been known to warm the heart of even the most hardened misanthrope, especially if it's a premium chocolate, imported, say, from Switzerland, or the Netherlands, or some other of the so- called "Low" countries be they Dutch or Flemish or Walloon
GAWAIN: Walloon my ass, the man ain't gonna roll over for a fuckin' candy bar!
PANCAKE: I'm afraid there's a setback on the tunneling front too. We've run into a pretty large rock, and
GENERAL: All turn to look at the General. He continues to stare at a spot in space. He slowly releases some inhaled cigarette smoke, murmuring:
GENERAL: .Very bad.
DORR: Oh my my, it seems that the poet was right: Troubles never singly come.
PANCAKE: Oh, we can get through the rock, no worries there. Simplest thing in the world. Why we blow right through it; I've got a pyro license, we bore a hole in the rock, pack in a little plastique; igneous blows pretty good, and we
LUMP: Is he gonna want a piece of the
PANCAKE: Lump hesitates, looking at the inquiring faces that surround A female Voice:
LUMP: A female Voice:
PANCAKE: Yes, Mountain, we were just talking about that, and some plastique.
GAWAIN: .The fuck is this?
PANCAKE: This is Mountain Girl. Mountain is my right hand. She helps me with ordnance. Helps me with damn near
GAWAIN: .You brought your bitch to the waffle house?!
DORR: I confess myself to be puzzled as well. I thought we all understood that, so far as our little enterprise is concerned, mum, as the saying would have it, is the word
PANCAKE: Of course. I understand that. But this is Mountain.
PANCAKE: .I don't keep secrets from Mountain. That's not how you maintain a loving, caring relationship.
GAWAIN: .You brought your bitch to the waffle house?
GAWAIN: .Man brings his bitch to the waffle Look, you, I'll thank you to stop referring to Mountain that way. She's the other half of my life.
PANCAKE: Look, you, I'll thank you to stop referring to Mountain that way. She's the other half of my life.
GAWAIN: Everybody lookin' at me like I'm a fuck-up, losin' that sorry-ass job, and this motherfucker bring his bitch to the waffle house!
PANCAKE: You son of a bitch punk! Shut your goddamn mouth!
GAWAIN: Come and get me motherfuck! Come on, baby, let's get it on!
DORR: Gentlemen, please!
DORR: .Gentlemen, this sort of behavior does you no credit in the eyes of your colleagues, or in those of the other patrons of this waffle house! .Nobody talks to Mountain Girl that way. She had an abusive family!
PANCAKE: .Nobody talks to Mountain Girl that way. She had an abusive family!
GAWAIN: Fuck you, man.
PANCAKE: Little punk. I got syrup on my safari
DORR: Gentlemen, I propose that we consider the matter of this woman, Mountain Water, to be
PANCAKE: Mountain Girl.
DORR: I am so very sorry. I propose that we consider this matter to be closed, and we shall chose to trust her, since we now have no choice, and since she shall share only in Mr. Pancake's portion of the booty.
PANCAKE: Of course. Wouldn't have it any other Damn right you won't.
GAWAIN: Damn right you won't.
PANCAKE: Up yours, punk.
DORR: Gentlemen! And the manner of disposing of our igneous impediment is also settled. That leaves only the question of Gawain retrieving his job.
LUMP: Couldn't you just bribe the guy?
MRS. MUNSON: .You just a readin' fool, ain't you Mr. Dorr.
DORR: Yes yes, I must confess, madam, that often I feel more at home in these ancient volumes than I do in the hustle-bustle of our modern world. To me, paradoxically, the literature of the so-called "dead tongues" has more currency than this mornin's In these books.
MRS. MUNSON: In these books.
DORR: In these books.
DORR: .In these volumes, there is the accum'lated wisdom a mankind which succours me when the day is hard or the night lonely and long.
MRS. MUNSON: Wisdom of mankind, what about the wisdom of the Lord?
DORR: Oh yes, the Good Book, mm. I have found reward in its pages. But for me there are other good books as well; the heavy volumes of Antiquity, freighted with the insights of Man's glorious age. And then of course I love, love, love the works of Mr. Ed G'Allan Poe.
MRS. MUNSON: I know who he is. Kinda creepy.
DORR: Oh no, madam, noooo. Not of this world, true; he lived in a dream, an ancient dream.
DORR: "Helen, they beauty is to me Like those Nicean barks a yore That gently, o'er a perfumed sea, The weary, wayworn wanderer bore To his own native shore. "
MRS. MUNSON: Who was Helen? She wasn't a loose woman, was she? Some kinda whore a
DORR: One doesn't know who Helen was, though I picture her as bein' very, very extremely. pale.
DORR: .Miz Munson, I was tryin' to think of some way of expressin' my gratitude to you for takin' in.
DORR: .this weary, wayworn wanderer.
DORR: .It's just a modest little ol' present, why it's practically nothing at all.
MRS. MUNSON: Oh Mr. Dorr, why you are such a gallant man.
DORR: Oh no madam, I blush. I melt. No, I just happened to hear of this gospel concert tomorrow night, The Mighty Mighty Clouds of Joy, and I thought you and a friend from church, Othar loved that music. Yes, I got a widow-lady friend.
MRS. MUNSON: Othar loved that music. Yes, I got a widow-lady friend.
DORR: The concert is up in Memphis, but I have arranged for a car service to transport you thither and, needless to say, back home at the concert's termination. My friends and I will be rehearsing here tomorrow evening so you needn't worry about the security of your charming little old
MRS. MUNSON: Huh? Excuse me.
MRS. MUNSON: Sheriff Wyner, how you doin'.
SHERIFF: .to let you know I had a word with WeeMack. He says he gonna comply with your request, keep the music down and neighborly.
MRS. MUNSON: He calls from the bottom of the stoop:
SHERIFF: So you have a pleasant evening now, and just let us know
MRS. MUNSON: Hang on there, Sheriff, somebody I want you to meet.
SHERIFF: Ma'am, I'm a little pressed for time
MRS. MUNSON: Why, you chasin' a gang of bank robbers? Get on in here say hello.
MRS. MUNSON: .We was just havin' tea, talkin' about Othar .Hm. Bussed his own dishes. You can always tell a gentleman.
MRS. MUNSON: .Hm. Bussed his own dishes. You can always tell a gentleman.
SHERIFF: Someone was here, ma'am?
MRS. MUNSON: Mm-hm, with me'n Othar.
SHERIFF: Well, maybe I'll catch him next Come on up to his room.
MRS. MUNSON: Come on up to his room.
MRS. MUNSON: Mm, he's neat.
SHERIFF: Very neat.
MRS. MUNSON: Probably went down to the cellar to play with his friends.
SHERIFF: Ma'am, I really have to.
REVERSE: shows Dorr, cheek pressed to the floor, his teacup and saucer under the bed with him.
SHERIFF: .be gettin' back.
MRS. MUNSON: What the.
HIS POV: The heavy orthopedic shoes approach, and then, with loud Mr. Mogul sounds of effort, Mrs. Munson's hands and knees hit the floor. Her head drops in to view to peer in, her own cheek against the floorboards.
MRS. MUNSON: .What the. Why, Professor!
MRS. MUNSON: .What you doin' havin' tea down .Land of Goshen! Get out from under Miz Munson, my pager just went off.
MRS. MUNSON: .Land of Goshen! Get out from under Miz Munson, my pager just went off.
SHERIFF: Miz Munson, my pager just went off.
MRS. MUNSON: Why of all the.
SHERIFF: 'Fraid I gotta respond.
SHERIFF: .I'll try to meet your friend some other time.
DORR: Well that was very. refreshing. As you know.
DORR: .we academics are inordinately fond of wedgin' ourselves into confined spaces. At Yale the students will see how many of their number they can enclose in a telephone booth; Harvard, a broom closet.
MRS. MUNSON: Why I never!
DORR: There was the goldfish-swallowin' craze, of course, a different but related phenomenon. Ahem. I hope I didn't spill any tea.
WIDER: shows Gawain in Mr. Gudge's office as Gudge, behind the desk, looks at the gift-wrapped box.
GAWAIN: It's just my way of sayin', well, goddamnit, I don't know what it's like walkin' in your shoes, bein' all tightass and all, and you don't know what it's like to walk in my shoes, but, well.
GAWAIN: .You know, there's the custodian, and then there's the man inside the custodian, y'understand what I'm
GAWAIN: .and that man has needs, dig, and I guess those needs, Mr. Gudge, which they usually involve women with big asses, well those motherfuckin' needs sometimes well up over the custodian like the motherfuckin' Johnstown Flood. But my point is it ain't gonna happen again. Not if it's humanly
GUDGE: But Jesus, if you'd seen the ass on that girl, Mr. Gudge, you'd a wanted her sitting on your face too.
GAWAIN: But Jesus, if you'd seen the ass on that girl, Mr. Gudge, you'd a wanted her sitting on your face too.
GUDGE: Well, we're all human.
GAWAIN: Ya damn skippy.
GUDGE: This apology buys you a one-week probationary period. Stay away from the customers, MacSam.
PANCAKE: The drill bit's getting awfully hot. Gawain, maybe you could fill a hudson sprayer and spritz it down while I Fuck you, man, I ain't your house nigger. I'm the inside man!
GAWAIN: Fuck you, man, I ain't your house nigger. I'm the inside man!
PANCAKE: Look, are you gonna have a bug up your ass for the rest of the time we work together?
LUMP: I'll get the sprayer.
PANCAKE: No no, me and this gentleman here have to get square. Let me tell you something, MacSam. You wanna know I don't wanna know shit from you.
GAWAIN: I don't wanna know shit from you.
PANCAKE: I'm gonna tell you how I came down to Mississippi. Wasn't born here, you know. I'm from Scranton,
PANCAKE: Pancake's eyes regain their focus:
GAWAIN: Pancake's eyes regain their focus:
PANCAKE: .Scranton, Pennsylvania. Came down here in 1964. Greyhound Bus. With the Freedom Riders. You know who the Freedom Riders were, MacSam?
GAWAIN: I don't give a shit who they were. Just tell me when they gonna leave.
PANCAKE: The Freedom Riders, my fine young man, were a group of concerned liberals from up North whites, Negros, and yes, Jewish people all working together, just like we are here. Concerned citizens who came down here so that local black people could have their civil liberties. So that people like you could have the vote.
GAWAIN: .You know what, man?
PANCAKE: What, brother?
GAWAIN: I don't vote. So fuck you.
PANCAKE: Why you fucking
GAWAIN: And the bus you rode in on!
PANCAKE: That's it!
PANCAKE: .Let's step outside, MacSam!
DORR: Yes, madam?
MRS. MUNSON: My friend Mrs. Funthes is here so I'm about to go on out. I just wanted to leave y'all with some cinnamon
MRS. MUNSON: .Y'all sound pretty good. It'd be nice if you'd come by the church some day, give us a recital.
DORR: Oh madam, you are too kind. Our music, however, is how shall I put it? rather Roman in its outlook; many of our pieces were commissioned by the Holy See.
MRS. MUNSON: Oh, I see all right, but we don't make a big whoop-dee-do about denominations; everybody welcome at our church. We've had Methodists come in. Episcopals. Even had a Jew come in once with a guitar back in the sixties.
DORR: Indeed. Excuse me, one moment, ma'am, and I shall see you off.
DORR: .If you gentlemen can labor harmoniously in the course of my absence, then perhaps upon my return we shall be prepared to explode that vexin' ol' piece a igneous.
GAWAIN: He's the motherfuckin' piece of
MRS. MUNSON: Professor, this is Rosalie Funthes, Rosalie, Professor G.H. Dorr, Ph.D.
ROSALIE: Oh my, that's an awful lot of letters.
DORR: Well of course in my youth I was simply known as Goldthwait.
PANCAKE: All right, safety meeting, let's listen up. General, could you hand me the prima cord and the compound there. Before we set the charge we'll run through our procedure.
PANCAKE: .I have earplugs for whoever wants them. Just wedge them in your ears. Now here we have not yet, Lump.
PANCAKE: .Now. Prima cord. Gelatinite. C4. Time comes, we pack the hole in the rock with the C4 and insert two leads.
PANCAKE: .and B.
PANCAKE: .Charge comes from a battery that is inside this plunger. Ordinary auto battery, you can pick it up at Sears, easiest thing in the world.
DORR: I remember my father telling me and it is one of the few memories I retain of the man, from one of his visits home, and how I do cherish it he said, "Goldthwait, you are not formed as other little boys."
ROSALIE: MRS. MUNSON
MRS. MUNSON: He a man of learnin'?
DORR: G.H. number two was self-educated; he had no career, as such, though the state recognized the breadth of his readin' by making him librarian at the state nervous hospital in Meridian, where he was a distinguished This is the same procedure we will be using when we collapse the tunnel after entering the casino vault and returning to the root cellar.
PANCAKE: This is the same procedure we will be using when we collapse the tunnel after entering the casino vault and returning to the root cellar.
PANCAKE: .This is for your own protection, so pay close attention. Once these materials are combined only the professionals may handle them. That means me, or the General. Separately they are harmless-completely inert. Why, you could light this stuff on fire, hit it with a hammer
MRS. MUNSON: .What in the name of heaven was
DORR: I'm. quite sure. that there is. no cause for alarm.
DORR: .Why, I'm not even absolutely certain that I heard anything at Didn't hear anything?!
MRS. MUNSON: Didn't hear anything?!
DORR: Well, something, perhaps, but.
DORR: .nothing that need discompose us, was the sense I was trying to
DORR: .Miz Munson, I will not have you missing your musical recital. Why, you go ahead now. Miz Funthes, you as well, I beg of you.
DORR: .I shall call the gas company, or the water company, or whatever subterranean utility is implicated in this little. occurrence. I shall see to the matter. as only a highly educated classicist could.
LUMP: Blood, Professor! Oh my God! Blood!
PANCAKE: .why, it's nothing to make a fuss about. Perfectly all right. happens all the time.
GAWAIN: .You gotta go find it, dipshit!
PANCAKE: .No, no. Really, I'm perfectly all Perfectly all right? You just blew your fucking finger off!
GAWAIN: Perfectly all right? You just blew your fucking finger off!
PANCAKE: Sure, but
GAWAIN: Well get back down there and find it, man! I ain't pickin' up your goddamn finger!
DORR: I gather there was a premature They can sew that shit back on, jack! Like that guy his wife cut his dick off! Just sewed that motherfucker back on!
GAWAIN: They can sew that shit back on, jack! Like that guy his wife cut his dick off! Just sewed that motherfucker back on!
PANCAKE: Of course. Simplest thing in the world. Microsurgery
GAWAIN: Saw that motherfucker in a porno! Thing still works!
PANCAKE: Oh yes, they have remarkable abilities in the, uh.
MRS. MUNSON: They using the house to practice music a the rococo.
ROSALIE: INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT The cat, with a human finger in its mouth, sidles cautiously to one side, warily eying someone.
DORR: I propose that we get our fallen comrade to the hospital, and the General shall follow when he manages to recover the severed digit.
PANCAKE: I don't know what all the fuss is
MRS. MUNSON: The door is yanked fully open and the General races out after the cat.
PICKLES!: The door is yanked fully open and the General races out after the cat.
MRS. MUNSON: .You catch Pickles now!
DORR: The house is perfectly in order, but we need medical attention for Mr. Pancake who, during the disturbance, pinched his finger in a valve of the
MRS. MUNSON: You let the cat out!
DORR: The General is even now exercising every effort to retrieve your mischievous little pet. Please go, go and enjoy your concert, and we shall see you later in the evening. Au revoir, mes dames!
DORR: .here, this afternoon, having successfully blasted that little ol' rock to pieces during Miz Munson's choir practice.
DORR: .Clark, perhaps you can run us through the game plan for what remains of our tunnelin'.
WIDER: The men are clustered around the map, spread out on the sackbutt case in the cellar. Clark continues:
PANCAKE: .Just the usual spadework until we hit the masonry of the vault, and then we drill through.
DORR: And will you be able to wield the drill with your maimed extremity?
PANCAKE: Oh, I should think so, it's only one finger. Inhibits me in doing finer work, of course. I'll always have to live with that. Ahem. Maybe, and I'm just thinking out loud here, maybe since, as you say, it will present problems later.
DORR: Yes, Clark?
PANCAKE: Well, maybe and this is something I've talked over with Mountain Girl, and she agrees with me, so it's not just one person's opinion maybe I should get a little extra compensation for the accident.
PANCAKE: .Somewhat larger share. Why, if this were any other line of work I'd be getting workmen's comp, wouldn't I? Might even have a pretty good You gonna sue yaself for blowin' off your finger?
GAWAIN: You gonna sue yaself for blowin' off your finger?
PANCAKE: Well that is simply asinine
DORR: Yes but you see, Clark, this is not what you just called "some other line of work."
PANCAKE: But if it were
DORR: This is a criminal enterprise, not to put too fine a point on it, entailin' all manner a risks not involved in honest labor. Governmental regulations an' civic safeguards cannot be assumed to apply to antisocial pursuits.
LUMP: Yeah, but he lost his finger.
GAWAIN: We don't give a shit! Man can blow his own dick off, don't make no nevermind to us! We don't gotta pay the man for goin' around blowin' off body parts! Getcha head outcha ass, Look, you
PANCAKE: Look, you
DORR: I think that in this instance Gawain has a very excellent point. I
GENERAL: No extra share!
PANCAKE: Well, okay, majority rules, like I say, it was just a trial balloon. Hand's not so bad really, I even get some phantom feeling.
GAWAIN: You pull on your prick you get phantom feeling. Greedy motherfuck.
DORR: Now that that matter is settled, let us synchronize our watches before Gawain reports to work. In. twenty seconds. it will be twelve-sixteen exactly. fifteen.
PANCAKE: It will be twelve-fifteen?
DORR: No, in fifteen seconds now eleven seconds it will be twelve- sixteen. eight.
LUMP: Six. five yes, Lump?
DORR: Six. five yes, Lump?
LUMP: I don't have a watch.
GAWAIN: Me, dickwad.
WIDER: Gawain is wheeling it. He is approaching the tunnel to the corporate annex.
GAWAIN: Well ain't that somethin'.
PANCAKE: Hnnnn. Arrunggggh! Rnffff.
PANCAKE: He whispers hoarsely, urgently:
PANCAKE: The other men look at him.
.IBS!: The other men look at him.
GAWAIN: .Say what?
PANCAKE: IBS! Irritable Bowel Syndrome! Is there a men's room down here?!
GAWAIN: Oh man, you shouldn't be using the men's room
PANCAKE: Or a lady's room! IBS! Quickly!
GAWAIN: You shoulda shit back in the house, man! We don't want Elron finding you in the goddamn crapper! No choice! Quickly! It's a medical You are disgusting, man. All right, follow me.
PANCAKE: No choice! Quickly! It's a medical You are disgusting, man. All right, follow me.
GAWAIN: You are disgusting, man. All right, follow me.
PANCAKE: Feel thirty pounds lighter.
PANCAKE: .Thank you for being so understanding. Not everyone is, of course, which is why the biggest challenge of IBS is educating the public. Afflicts over two million people yet most of us have never heard of it. And it strikes without regard to age, gender or race.
GAWAIN: Oh fuck, man, I don't wanna know about it.
PANCAKE: That's the kind of attitude we're Well maybe you should sign me up, man, 'cause you startin' to irritate my bowel.
GAWAIN: Well maybe you should sign me up, man, 'cause you startin' to irritate my bowel.
PANCAKE: .I guess I never told you, that's how Mountain Girl and I met. They had an IBS Weekend at Grossinger's, in the Catskills. Of course the tourist business up there has suffered, with the demise of the Borscht Belt. So they have different promotions, mixers, so on. This was a weekend for Irritable Bowel singles to meet and support each other and share stories.
GAWAIN: Man, I don't wanna hear a single one a them stories.
PANCAKE: Well, some of them are very
GAWAIN: Not one fuckin' story! You one fucked- up motherfucker! You
LUMP: Hey, lookit that.
PANCAKE: Huh. Looks like an Ikegami.
PANCAKE: .Oh yeah. Mm-hm. I'm not sure whether it's broadcasting.
NORMAL PERSPECTIVE: .Um-hm. No.
PANCAKE: .Um-hm. No.
PANCAKE: .Hard wire.
PANCAKE: Look, I didn't choose to have IBS
GAWAIN: Shut the fuck up!
PANCAKE: There's no cure, you know. Only control. Lifelong condition. Not complaining, just fact. And I did meet Mountain.
GAWAIN: Grab your bag and get in that fucking
DORR: Welcome back, gentlemen, mission accomplished I see. I am so very very delighted.
DORR: .Congratulations. Congratulations. I have some cold duck on ice for the Maybe we could have something to drink, too.
LUMP: Maybe we could have something to drink, too.
GAWAIN: Motherfucker can't stop talking, can't stop shitting. Motherfucker tell everyone about his motherfuckin' asshole. No one gives a shit about his asshole. Nobody interested in another man's asshole. Or his bitch's.
DORR: Gentlemen, to we few. We who have shared each other's company, each other's care, each other's joy, and who now reap the fruits of our communal effits, shoulder to shoulder, from each accordin' to his abilities so forth whatnot. We have had our little diffences along the way, it's true, but I like to think they have only made us value one another the more, each coming to understand and appreciate the other's unique qualities, potencies, and, yes, foibles. I suggest that we shall look back upon this caper one day, one distant day, grandchildren dandled upon our knee, and perhaps a tear will form, and we shall say, Well, with wit, and grit, and no small amount of courage, we accomplished something on that day, a feat of derring-do, an enterprise not ignoble we, merry band, unbound by the constraints of society and the prejudices of the common ruck, we happy few. Gentlemen to us!
MEN: To us!
PANCAKE: Charge should've gone off already.
DORR: I do beg your pardon?
PANCAKE: The charge to collapse the tunnel. I set it for eight minutes.
DORR: Well that time, and more, has most certainly elapsed.
DORR: I need not remind you of the importance of obliterating any trace of a connection between the vault and this house. It was of the essence of this plan that it should appear that the money had simply vanished. Without a trace. Spirited away, as it were, by ghosts.
PANCAKE: Of course. I understand.
DORR: The conundrum of the undisturbed yet empty vault, the unsolvable riddle of the sealed yet violated sanctum, is of the utmost importance not only to make our caper innelectually satisfying. It is also exigent as a matter of practical fact: I remind you that if a tunnel is ever found leading to this house, this house's owner knows all of your names.
PANCAKE: She certainly does.
DORR: Therefore to draw the unavoidable conclusion someone shall have to reenter the tunnel to reset that
PANCAKE: He reaches to his tool belt, pulls out his Leatherman.
PANCAKE: He is squinting with pain. The muffled hip-hop song is beginning to recede.
PANCAKE: He squints at the back of the unit. As it beeps again, he turns the unit over to look at its The readout now says: 00:10. As he watches, peering down through the bottom of his glasses, it continues to advance with a beep as each second slips by:
PANCAKE: .What the
GAWAIN: .You just fart?
ELRON: INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY Mrs. Munson is looking at the cellar door. Dust drifts out from under it. She takes a slow step towards it. Another step. She opens the door. There is no visibility in the cellar due to swirling clay She takes one step down the stairs, waving at the air in front of her face. Paper money wafts in and out of the dust. We hear Voices:
MRS. MUNSON: Professor, I'm surprised.
DORR: .Properly speaking, madam, we have been surprised; you are taken aback. Though I acknowledge that the sense you intend is gaining currency through increasing use.
DORR: .You have returned from your devotions betimes.
MRS. MUNSON: I hadda fix tea. I wanna talk to you, Professor, don't you be leavin'. And don't make any more noise! And
MRS. MUNSON: .I told you, I don't want any smokin' in here!
LUMP: She saw everything. She saw our
LUMP: .She saw our hole, Professor!
DORR: Yes. Yes.
LUMP: What do we do?
DORR: Well, first, my dear boy, we follow the General's example.
DORR: .and refrain from panic. Secondly, we cooly, calmly, collectedly think.
DORR: Hsst. Madam.
DORR: .Mrs. Munson, if I might have a You get back down those stairs!
MRS. MUNSON: You get back down those stairs!
DORR: I assure you I shall be
MRS. MUNSON: Hush! Down those stairs! We havin' tea now! I be down shortly.
MRS. MUNSON: .He's the tenant.
LADIES: INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR DAY As the Professor rejoins the still staring and silent group. The money has been picked up and is once again in stacks upon the table.
DORR: She shall be down shortly.
DORR: .Tea. Dainties.
MRS. MUNSON: I don't know what you boys been up to but I wasn't born yesterday and I know mischief when I see it. Now I want an explanation, but first I want you boys to get your fannies up here with y'alls period instruments. I been tellin' the ladies about your music and they wanna hear you play.
MRS. MUNSON: She turns again and clomps back up the stairs. The General opens his mouth and, again without using his hands, restores his cigarette to its usual place on his lower Lump is fretful:
LUMP: Yes, Lump?
DORR: Yes, Lump?
LUMP: I can't really play the buttsack.
DORR: Madame or rather, mesdames you will have to accept our apologies for failing to perform since, as you see, we are shorthanded. Gawain is still at work and we could no more play with one part tacit than a horse could canter shy one leg.
LADIES: MRS. MUNSON
MRS. MUNSON: Perhaps I could offer as a poor but ready substitute a brief poetic recital. Though I don't pretend to great oratorical skills, I will happily present, with your ladies' permission, verse from the unquiet mind of Mr. Ed G'Allan Poe.
DORR: Perhaps I could offer as a poor but ready substitute a brief poetic recital. Though I don't pretend to great oratorical skills, I will happily present, with your ladies' permission, verse from the unquiet mind of Mr. Ed G'Allan Poe.
DORR: ."Ladies, thy beauty is to me Like those Nicean barks of yore."
DORR: "That gently, o'er a perfumed sea The weary, wayworn wanderer bore To his own native shore. "
VOICE: A slurp of tea from another quarter. Dorr bears on:
DORR: "On desperate seas long wont to roam, Thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face, Thy Naiad airs have brought me home To the glory that was Greece And the grandeur that was Rome. "
VOICES: Mm-mm. Glory hallelujah.
LADY: That was soooome poem.
LADY: .You know any?
GAWAIN: Y'all been celebratin'?.
DORR: Goodbye, ladies. We had such a pleasant time.
MRS. MUNSON: Now, I wanna know what's goin' on.
DORR: Yes indeed, and the thirst for knowledge is a very commendable thing. Though in this instance, I believe when you hear the explanation, you will laugh riotously, slappin' your knee and perhaps even wipin' away a giddy tear, relieved of your former You see Lump here is an enthusiastic collector of Indian arrowheads and, having found one simply lying on your cellar floor, a particularly rare artifact of the Natchez tribe, he enlisted us in an all-out effort to sift through the subsoil in search of others. Well, in doing so, we apparently hit a motherlode of natural gas I myself became acutely aware of the smell of "rotten eggs" and it was at just this unfortunate moment that the General here violated one of the cardinal rules of this house and lit himself a cigarette.
MRS. MUNSON: You see Lump here is an enthusiastic collector of Indian arrowheads and, having found one simply lying on your cellar floor, a particularly rare artifact of the Natchez tribe, he enlisted us in an all-out effort to sift through the subsoil in search of others. Well, in doing so, we apparently hit a motherlode of natural gas I myself became acutely aware of the smell of "rotten eggs" and it was at just this unfortunate moment that the General here violated one of the cardinal rules of this house and lit himself a cigarette.
DORR: You see Lump here is an enthusiastic collector of Indian arrowheads and, having found one simply lying on your cellar floor, a particularly rare artifact of the Natchez tribe, he enlisted us in an all-out effort to sift through the subsoil in search of others. Well, in doing so, we apparently hit a motherlode of natural gas I myself became acutely aware of the smell of "rotten eggs" and it was at just this unfortunate moment that the General here violated one of the cardinal rules of this house and lit himself a cigarette.
GENERAL: So sorry.
MRS. MUNSON: .What about all that money?
DORR: .Ah. The money. The money is. Mr. Pancake's.
PANCAKE: That's right.
DORR: He only just re-mortgaged his house in order to pay for the procedure that will correct the wandering eye of his common-law wife, Mountain Water, who suffers from astygmia and strabismus and a general curdling of the vitreous jelly. Mr. Pancake however is an ardent foe of the federal reserve and is in fact one of those eccentrics about whom one occasionally reads, hoarding his entire life savings either under the proverbial mattress or, as in Mr. Pancake's case, in a Hefty bag that is his constant companion.
DORR: .Steel Sack.
PANCAKE: Don't trust the banks. Never have.
MRS. MUNSON: This don't smell right. I'm callin' Sheriff Wyner.
DORR: Madam if you please. Yes! Yes! It was a lie! A fantastic tale! You have us! Dead to rights! But please allow me to tell you the truth in
DORR: He agonizes. The words do not come easy.
DORR: .What I am about to reveal to you, you may find. shocking. Mrs. Munson, I must tell you that we are not. what we appear.
MRS. MUNSON: We are not in fact musicians of the late Renaissance. Nor of the early or mid period. We are, in fact. criminals! Desperate men, madam! We have tunneled into the nearby offices of the Lady Luck gambling emporium and have relieved it of its treasure!
DORR: We are not in fact musicians of the late Renaissance. Nor of the early or mid period. We are, in fact. criminals! Desperate men, madam! We have tunneled into the nearby offices of the Lady Luck gambling emporium and have relieved it of its treasure!
MRS. MUNSON: Lord have mercy!
DORR: It is true that the Lady Luck is a den of iniquity, a painted harlot luring people into sin and exciting the vice of greed with her false promise of easy winnings. Oh, her gains are ill-gotten, yes, but I offer no excuses save one! We men have each pledged half of our share of the booty to a charitable institution the General, to a placement service for Southeast Asian refugees; Mr. Pancake to the Blue Ridge Parkway Conservancy; and Lump to the United Jewish Appeal. As compensation for use of your house we had planned to donate a full share to Bob Jones University, without burdening you with guilty knowledge by informing you of same. But you have wrested the information from me! Now it is all on the table. Now you have it, the whole story, the awful truth.
MRS. MUNSON: Stolen money!
DORR: Yes, yes, shamefully I admit it, yes! But find the victim, Mrs. Munson, I challenge you! Even the casino itself, that riparian Gomorra, shall suffer no harm! It has an insurance company, a financial behemoth that will cheerfully replenish its depleted vaults! That is its function! And the insurance company itself is made up of tens and tens of thousands of policy-holders so that we have done the calculations, Mrs. Munson! so that at the end of the day, at the final reckoning, each policy- holder shall have contributed only one penny one single solitary cent to the satisfaction of this .Just one penny?
MRS. MUNSON: .Just one penny?
DORR: Think of it, Mrs. Munson! One cent from thousands upon thousands of people so that Bob Jones University can continue on its mission! Why, I have no doubt that, were the policy- holders aware of the existence of that august institution, why, each and every one of them would have volunteered some token amount to the furtherance of its aims!
MRS. MUNSON: Well that's prob'ly true.
DORR: Yes madam, sadly, the criminal stain is upon my soul, but the benefit shall accrue to any number of worthy causes. As long, that is, as the secret stays with us. And I, surely, shall not be the one to divulge it.
MRS. MUNSON: Well. it's hard to see the harm in it. One penny.
MRS. MUNSON: .I'm sorry, Professor.
DORR: Excuse me, ma'am?
MRS. MUNSON: No. It's wrong. Don't you be leadin' me into temptation.
DORR: Madam, I must strenuously protest
MRS. MUNSON: No, it's just plain wrong. Stealin'. I know your intentions were good, and I won't call the police if you give the money back. But I gotta see that you do it.
DORR: MRS. MUNSON
MRS. MUNSON: And all a you gotta go to church with me next Sunday.
DORR: And. engage in divine worship?
MRS. MUNSON: I made up my mind. You can double- talk all you want, but its church or the county jail.
DORR: She rises.
MRS. MUNSON: You think it over. I gotta feed the
GAWAIN: Yes. Unfortunately, Mrs. Munson has rather complicated the situation
DORR: Yes. Unfortunately, Mrs. Munson has rather complicated the situation
GAWAIN: I know how to discomplicate it! Put a cap in the old lady's head! Then everything simple again!
DORR: .Not easy to do. Many reasons. Practical ones: a quiet neighborhood, a sleepy town. Reasons of moral repugnance: a harmless woman, a deed conceived and executed in cold blood. No, Gawain; would that it were simple!
GAWAIN: Well fuck, man! What we gonna do, give the money back and go to church?!
DORR: I shudder. I quake.
DORR: .You sir, are a Buddhist. Is there not a middle way?
GENERAL: Must float like a leaf on the river of life. And kill old lady.
DORR: Well. I suppose you are right. It is the active nature of the crime, though, that so horrifies the squeezing of the trigger, the plunging of the knife. But, think a moment look at the other tools we have at
DORR: .We have the cellar. We have masonry and trowel. Perhaps we could simply. immure her.
PANCAKE: Sure, easiest thing in the world. I could whip up a little mortar in one of those snow saucers, lay the bricks, anchor in some chains, Mountain has a source for the manacles.
DORR: Ahh but gentlemen, we delude ourselves. Think of the woman's piteous moans as we lay tier upon tier of brick. Think of her lamentations as we fit the last brick into place, appealing to our better selves, the higher angels of our nature, our recollections of our own sainted mothers. No, I fear that we lack the sand to commit such an act. No. no. shortest and most painless is best. Let us confront reality. Gawain's gun. the retort muffled by a pillow. into the brain. the affair of an instant. The only question is. who wields the weapon.
DORR: .I believe it is traditional, in such circumstances, to draw straws.
PANCAKE: Well, sure, fair enough.
PANCAKE: .I'm thinking, though, that since I lost my finger I mean, literally lost it because of that goddamn cat maybe I should be excused from this thing. Hard for me to squeeze a trigger anyway
GAWAIN: You one whiney motherfucker! I squeeze your nutsack you keep that up!
PANCAKE: Listen, punk
DORR: Gentlemen, no special pleading, no exceptions. It's in the nature of the situation that we would all prefer to be excused.
PANCAKE: Well, okay. it was just a trial
PANCAKE: Long straw. You all see it. All your fuss over nothing, punk.
GAWAIN: He touches the other straw, hesitates. He goes back to the first straw, closes his hand around it, closes his eyes, and pulls. He lifts the straw into frame before his squeezed-shut eyes, raises his eyebrows, and slowly opens fluttering eyelids to look: short straw. The Professor, smiling, opens his fist to confirm that he holds the last long one. Gawain moans.
HIS POV: nearing the old lady is now different somehow. The perspective is somewhat lower; the humming woman sounds not quite the same; the rocking chair and the room itself are subtly WHEN WE CUT BACK TO GAWAIN he is a runty, TEN-YEAR-OLD CHILD walking slowly across the floor; he is cradling not a gun in a pillow but a squirming little puppy dog. The dog yips; the woman turns to look at us. It is not Mrs. Munson, but another black woman of about the same age.
MAMA: What you got there, Gawain?
CHILD GAWAIN: Why nothin', mama.
MAMA: Nothin' my ass! You got a dog there!
CHILD GAWAIN: No, Mama!
MAMA: A filthy noisy little pest of a puppy dog gonna shit all over the house!
CHILD GAWAIN: He won't shit in the house, Mama, I'm gonna train him, I promise, gonna train him real good
MAMA: I'm gonna train you real good! I told you don't bring no stray dogs into this house!
MAMA: .You wait til your Daddy gets home, he gonna lay into you proper!
WHAP!: The little boy, weeping, throws his arms around his mother:
CHILD GAWAIN: Please don't hurt me no more! I love you, Mama!
MAMA: Daddy gonna kick your ass!
WHAP!: .Bringin' in a filthy dirty dog!
MAMA: .Bringin' in a filthy dirty dog!
SISTER: Mama's whuppin' Gawain's ass!
BROTHER: ( eagerly ) Ain't you gonna use the strap, Mama?
CHILD GAWAIN: Please don't hurt me, Mama! What you doin'? What you doin' with my pillow there?
MRS. MUNSON: What you doin'? What you doin' with my pillow there?
GAWAIN: I'm sorry, ma'am, I
MRS. MUNSON: I'm displeased with you! Colored boy like you, falling in with that trash .Ashamed a yourself! Didn't your mama raise you right!
WHAP!: MRS. MUNSON
MRS. MUNSON: .Ashamed a yourself! Didn't your mama raise you right!
GAWAIN: I can't do it!
DORR: Why. this is most. irregular.
GAWAIN: She reminds me of my mama. I can't shoot my mama! You motherfuckers just draw straws again.
PANCAKE: Wait a minute. You've got to accept your responsibilities, young man.
GAWAIN: Fuck you. And your irritated bowel. I can't shoot that old lady.
GENERAL: Must shoot!
PANCAKE: Now look here, it's the easiest thing in the world. Pretend her head is a casaba melon, and the gun is a melon- baller, and
GAWAIN: What the fuck you talkin' about, man? You think this a melon-baller, you do it, man!
DORR: My my, this is most irregular.
PANCAKE: Look, with equal rights come equal I'm afraid that Mr. Pancake is right, my dear fellow. We cannot draw straws again; the exercise loses all credibility if you show that the loser can simply beg off doing the Must shoot!
DORR: I'm afraid that Mr. Pancake is right, my dear fellow. We cannot draw straws again; the exercise loses all credibility if you show that the loser can simply beg off doing the Must shoot!
GENERAL: Must shoot!
GAWAIN: She just an old colored lady to you you do it, man!
PANCAKE: Why you sniveling little coward!
GAWAIN: What you say, you whiney motherfucker? I come up your irritated ass with this motherfuckin' gun
PANCAKE: You think you scare me, you mewling punk! You don't scare me! Bull Connor and all his dogs didn't scare me!
PANCAKE: .Be a man!
GAWAIN: You fuck!
PANCAKE: Be a man!
GAWAIN: You ain't no fuckin' man, fuckin' a sixty-year-old lady in pigtails!
PANCAKE: WHY YOU BASTARD PUNK! MOUNTAIN GIRL IS FIFTY-THREE!
PANCAKE: .SHE COULD RIDE YOUR ASS TO JELLY!
DORR: Gentlemen, please!
GAWAIN: I seen Virginia hams I'd rather stick my dick in than your old
PANCAKE: .Oh my god.
PANCAKE: .I think he's hit! .I'll just check the carotid artery.
PANCAKE: .I'll just check the carotid artery.
PANCAKE: .That's a negative.
LUMP: Oh, fuck.
DORR: Oh my.
LUMP: Is he dead, Professor?
PANCAKE: Sure he's dead. I checked his carotid Well this is most irregular. We will need a Hefty bag.
DORR: Well this is most irregular. We will need a Hefty bag.
DORR: She is in the kitchen. I shall distract her while you steal out with the carcass.
DORR: Well, my dear Mrs. Munson, I have outlined your position to my colleagues and I now return to you to return our collective verdict.
MRS. MUNSON: Behind her, the General peers around the corner and starts a catlike advance across the living room.
DORR: There was much spirited discussion and an atmosphere of frank give-and- take. Some of our number were initially appalled at your proposal that we simply return the money; some were more receptive.
MRS. MUNSON: I don't care they was receptive or And that attitude, madam, was a factor in our discussions. To a man, I must say, they were devastated at the prospect of not being able to contribute to their respective Well that is a shame.
DORR: And that attitude, madam, was a factor in our discussions. To a man, I must say, they were devastated at the prospect of not being able to contribute to their respective Well that is a shame.
MRS. MUNSON: Well that is a shame.
DORR: Indeed. But at the end of the day, your position prevailed, and the men have decided that we shall return the money every last cent of it! and attend Sunday services, rather than spend the remainder of our years wasting away in the Mississippi Men's Correctional Facility. Though that was the original preference of some.
MRS. MUNSON: Well I'm glad y'all came to see the light, anyway. I'm gonna have some tea and go to bed.
DORR: So the money shall be returned tomorrow at the opening of the casino office. Enjoy your tea, madam.
DORR: .and congratulations on having recalled to the fold five poor, confused sheep who had momentarily
DOOR'S POV: The Volkswagon microbus again cruises slowly down the street in the same direction as previously; apparently it has been INT. MUNSON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT The Professor scowls.
DORR'S POV: The hearse pulls up to the curb.
PANCAKE: They back yet?
DORR: Yes. yes, they just arrived.
PANCAKE: Good. I'll go dump these in the
DORR: What in heaven's name.
DORR: EXT. MUNSON HOUSE - NIGHT We are PULLING Clark down the street, a satchel in either HIS POV The microbus, parked halfway down the block, ominously idling.
HIS POV: The microbus, parked halfway down the block, ominously idling.
THE BUS: We are CLOSE on its side-view mirror. Someone leans from the driver's seat for a view into the mirror, and in the mirror we see her, pigtails swinging: Mountain Girl.
HER POV: Clark Pancake, still rather small, approaching up the empty PULLING him again. A smile is beginning to play at the corners of his mouth.
PANCAKE: PULLING him again. A smile is beginning to play at the corners of his mouth.
PANCAKE: No extra share, huh.
PANCAKE: He pants. Behind him, in the deep background, we see the General bounding into the street and silently toward us.
PANCAKE: The moment passes. Pancake shakes his head, as if to clear it, and resumes his walk.
HIS POV: We are nearing the bus.
THE BUS: Mountain Girl sits in the idling bus, waiting. With a thunk and a gentle rock of the bus, we hear its back doors opening, and Pancake's voice.
PANCAKE: MOUNTAIN GIRL
MOUNTAIN GIRL: We hear an oof! of exertion as Pancake hoists each of the two satchels into the back. The oofs are followed by:
PANCAKE: .Nnrungh! Aaarmh. Ninnnff. IBS, dear?
MOUNTAIN GIRL: IBS, dear?
PANCAKE: EXT. MISSISSIPPI RIVER - BRIDGE - NIGHT The tower gargoyle stares sightlessly down. Lump and the General are at their accustomed place, each holding a foot shod in a large hiking boot. Behind them we see the hearse idling. Near them on the bridge, both hands grasping the railing as he gazes dreamily out into the night, is the Professor.
DORR: ".Like those Nicean barks of yore That gently, o'er a perfumed sea." Quick! Grab Clark!
LUMP: Quick! Grab Clark!
DORR: ".The weary, wayworn wanderer bore. "
DORR: ".To his own native shore."
DORR: Excellent. I believe, at last, we have the right man for the job.
HIS POV: The uptilted water glass is sending false teeth full uppers and lowers rattling toward his face.
THE GENERAL: He frantically but still noiselessly sets the glass back down. Wildly looks about, one hand clamped to his throat. A mad but silent dash for the door.
DORR: .T'was our até brought us to this What, Professor?
LUMP: What, Professor?
DORR: Our overweening pride. The old woman is a more potent antagonist than one had imagined.
DORR: .Now, Lump, I'm afraid it falls to you to finish the job.
DORR: .The comedy must end.
LUMP: .Professor, I been doing some Oh dear. Oh dear oh dear oh dear.
DORR: Oh dear. Oh dear oh dear oh dear.
LUMP: Maybe she's right! Maybe we should be going to church!
DORR: Oh dear, Lump. I feared that those would be your words. Not that I don't appreciate your giving the matter the benefit of your thought. But please recall, young man, our respective functions in this enterprise. I am a professor, the professor as you yourself so often say, the thinker, the "brains of the operation," trained in fact in the arts of cogitation. You, Lump, are the goon, the hooligan, the dumb brute whose actions must be directed by a higher intelligence.
LUMP: Yeah, I know, but
DORR: No buts, dear boy! Do not repeat the error of thinking! Now is the moment of praxis! Now, my dear boy, you must act!
LUMP: I can't do it, Professor! A nice old lady like that!
DORR: Think of the riches, Lump, that you and I alone shall divide! Recall the dream of wealth untold that first drew you to this enterprise!
LUMP: And reflect also that if you decline to act, forcing me to do so, then you shall no longer have any entitlement to the money! Your offices shall have been nugatory!
DORR: And reflect also that if you decline to act, forcing me to do so, then you shall no longer have any entitlement to the money! Your offices shall have been nugatory!
LUMP: You mean you mean you're gonna kill her?!
DORR: Of course! My hand would be forced!
LUMP: I can't let you do that, Professor! A nice old lady like that!
DORR: You?! Allow? Not allow? What presumption! You stupid boy! You very very extremely stupid boy!
LUMP: Oh yeah?
LUMP: .Well who looks stupid now?
LUMP: He turns the gun to have a look.
LUMP: .No bullets?
HIS POV: shows the foreshortened barrel as he experimentally squeezes the trigger.
DORR: Perhaps. it had to be thus.
DORR: ".Lo, in yon brilliant window-niche How statue-like I see thee stand."
DORR: .Hm. A raven?
DORR: ".The agate lamp within thy hand.
BACK HIGH: The teetering chunk of masonry tips away and the perchless bird flaps off.
DORR: .Ah, Psyche! from the regions which Are Holy land!"
DRINKING GLASS: It is resting on the very edge of the night table protruding, in fact, past the table's edge. It is morning. We hear rustling from the bed. Hands reach INTO FRAME and hesitate, finding the glass empty of water and precariously perched.
MRS. MUNSON: INT. MUNSON HOUSE - CELLAR - DAY Mrs. Munson is walking down the stairs.
MRS. MUNSON: She stops midway down and looks: The empty cellar. Money stacked neatly on the card table. Mrs. Munson sadly shakes her head.
MRS. MUNSON: .Hmm. Couldn't face the music.
MRS. MUNSON: Scoot now! Outa the way!
SHERIFF WYNER: Miz Munson.
MRS. MUNSON: Sheriff, I gotta make a statement.
SHERIFF WYNER: Could it possibly wait, ma'am? We're a little busy today.
MRS. MUNSON: I guess it can wait, but it's about that casino money.
SHERIFF WYNER: Call you right back.
SHERIFF WYNER: .You know something about it?
MRS. MUNSON: Something? Everything! I got it at You. you have what at home, now?
SHERIFF WYNER: You. you have what at home, now?
MRS. MUNSON: The money. Two point six million dollars. Down in my root cellar. All stacked up nice and neat.
SHERIFF WYNER: The deputy pauses to look up from his phone:
DEPUTY: How'd it get there, Marva?
MRS. MUNSON: Bunch a desperate men that stole it put it there, that's how! They was musicians of the Renaissance period, played the sackbutt and so on well, it turns out they really couldn't play, although they could recite poems to break your heart. Their ringleader speaks in dead Does he now.
SHERIFF WYNER: Does he now.
MRS. MUNSON: I tried to get you to see him! That Oh yes.
SHERIFF WYNER: Oh yes.
MRS. MUNSON: I had to yell at 'em 'bout stealin' all that money and I guess I made 'em feel pretty bad 'cause they picked up and left without takin' the money. But I was peeved with 'em, Sheriff, they'd been up to all sorts of mischief, come close to blowin' up the house, disturbed Othar no end.
SHERIFF WYNER: Angry, was he?
MRS. MUNSON: Wouldn't you be? All that racket!
SHERIFF WYNER: I expect so.
MRS. MUNSON: And they let Pickles out too!
SHERIFF WYNER: So you want us to go fetch him.
MRS. MUNSON: No, he's back, but what you want me to do with the money?
SHERIFF WYNER: He and the deputy exchange looks. The sheriff looks back at Mrs. Munson.
SHERIFF WYNER: .Why don't you just keep it, Miz Keep it?
MRS. MUNSON: Keep it?
DEPUTY: You keep it, Marva.
MRS. MUNSON: Well. I know it's only a penny offa everybody's policy.
SHERIFF WYNER: How's that ma'am?
MRS. MUNSON: I know folks don't much care. Could I. You s'pose I could.
SHERIFF WYNER: Yes ma'am?
MRS. MUNSON: Could I give it all to Bob Jones That'd be nice, ma'am.
SHERIFF WYNER: That'd be nice, ma'am.
MRS. MUNSON: .Well, long as everybody knows.
SHERIFF WYNER: Thank you for the information, ma'am.
MRS. MUNSON: You're welcome, sheriff. Just doin' my duty.
MRS. MUNSON: Leaning, Leaning, Safe and secure from all harm. Lean on Jesus, Lean on Jesus, Leaning on the everlasting
MRS. MUNSON: .What a fellowship, What a peace of mind, Safe and secure from all harm. Lean on Jesus, Lean on Jesus, Leaning on the everlasting arm.
MRS. MUNSON: It races off down the street.
MRS. MUNSON: EXT. MISSISSIPPI RIVER - BRIDGE - DAY Pickles scurries along the walkway. We hear the toot! of an approaching scow. The cat reaches the middle of the bridge. He sticks his head through the bars of the railing. When we CUT CLOSE on the cat as he looks down at the water, we see that he holds in his mouth a human finger. As the scow passes underneath, the cat opens its mouth and lets the finger drop. The finger falls away and is barely visible by the time it hits the scow. The cat looks up INTO THE LENS, and blinks. Its sideways irises adjust. The scow is gliding away. With the low mournful toot of its horn we tilt up the river to the great garbage island where scavenger birds pick through the trash.
THE END: Writers : William Rose Joel Coen Ethan Coen
