SHOOTING SCRIPT: September 1994
BEN: Ben. how are you, man?
PETER: Ben. how are you, man?
MARC: Nice to meet you. I think I spoke to you on the phone a couple of years ago. Weren't you both at MGM with Laddie?
BEN: That's right. Are you still at ICM?
MARC: No, I'm at Tri-Star now.
BEN: That's great. Say hello to Mike for me. That's a beautiful dress, Debbie, and those are fabulous earrings, There is an awkward silence. Ben does not make a move and is not invited to join them. The girls smile.
MARC: I gotta tell you, I'm a big fan of your writing. I loved Bay of Pigs.
BEN: Thanks a lot. I didn't actually write it, I just got the credit. I was fired. Can I talk to you for a Peter gets up and he and Ben walk to the door together. Peter speaks very quietly.
PETER: Listen, Ben, I can't help you any more. Do you understand?
BEN: This is the last time. Promise. I just need some cash tonight. I lost my credit cards. The money'll be on your desk first thing tomorrow morning, Scout's honor. How's the new one coming along? I here you got Richard Gere.
PETER: This is all I have in cash. Please don't drink it here.
BEN: Yes, that's fine. I'll messenger it over to you I don't want it. Ben. I think it would be best if you didn't contact me again.
PETER: I don't want it. Ben. I think it would be best if you didn't contact me again.
YURI: .but please, my friends, call me Yuri. It is my American name. I picked it The three people laugh. There is a hint of contempt in the way that they speak to Yuri.
FIRST BUSINESSMAN: Where are you from, Yuri? I mean, you sure don't talk like you're from this neck of the woods.
YURI: ( silky voice ) No. you are right, my friend. How very observant you are. I am from Latvia.
WEIRD WOMAN: Tough place.
YURI: Yes, I hear this too. But I am not a tough man. I am a simple man who is here to learn from my new American The door opens and Sera comes in. Everybody stares at her.
WEIRD WOMAN: ( turned on ) Is this your friend, Yuri?
YURI: Ah, yes. Sera.
SECOND BUSINESSMAN: Of course, Yuri. I think you'll find this just as we Yuri gets up.
YURI: So, my friends. I have other business to attend. Enjoy.
SERA: ( whispering ) Yuri. please! Can I talk to you for a moment.
YURI: My friends. excuse me for just one moment.
SERA: I don't want this. Yuri, please. I really don't want this. You know I don't like to do groups.
YURI: ( playful ) I want this, Sera. I need Please, Yuri.
SERA: Please, Yuri.
YURI: ( seductive ) These are pretty.
YURI: ( cheerful ) Sera wanted me to ask if she might undress at once for you. She has a very beautiful undergarment witch she would like you to see.
WEIRD WOMAN: ( strange voice ) Come here.
HOSTESS: ( smoky, sexy voice ) Just look at this studio, Ben, filled with glamorous merchandise, including an extra special prize chosen just for You! A big, bad, BMW motorcycle, complete with saddle bags stuffed with thousands of US dollars.
HOSTESS: So, Ben, Let's find a bar, get drunk and go for a ride.
HOSTESS: Then we can get a suite somewhere and order up a case of champagne while we fuck ourselves silly.
HOSTESS: This is it, just for You, She unbuttons her top, licks her fingers and makes her nipples hard.
HOSTESS: Because You've been so patient, and because I want to fuck you, take care of You, and because there's nothing else in the world worth doing.
HOSTESS: Tell you what, Ben, let's go to Las Vegas. The bars stay open twenty four hours night and day. Just you, just me, Ben, think about it, all ANGLE ON BEN Lost in his fantasy
BEN: I'll think about it.
BARMAN: You should go on that show.
BEN: Yeah, but what's the back end like? By the time we're through with P and A, the above-the line is going to take it to about fifteen and with something like this. I don't know if Disney will go for it. can I call you back on this? OK. chow for now. Good morning.
WOMAN: ( cautious ) Ben. Mr. Simpson was looking for you. I said that you had a doctor's appointment. He said for you to go in as soon as. are you OK?
BEN: ( pulling himself together ) I'm fantastic, but I gotta go out now. very important meeting, could make a coupla million for the company.
WOMAN: ( tender ) You should go now.
BEN: You should go now.
WOMAN: You should go now.
BEN: ( genuinely moved ) This is to generous Peter.
SIMPSON: ( close to tears ) Well. we liked having you around, Ben, but you know how it is.
BEN: ( ashamed ) Sure thing. and I'm sorry.
SIMPSON: ( trying to cheer things along ) Well. what are you going to do now?
BEN: I thought I might move out to Las Vegas.
BEN: The bars never close.
BEN'S POV: A girl walking ahead of him in the same direction. She is walking her dog. She is attractive from behind. We hear Ben's The dog gets interested in something on the sidewalk and she bends down to pull at its collar.
BEN: ( voice-over ) Beautiful, no just the shape which is nice, but the whole walk, the feeling, the movement. This girl is pleased with herself. Maybe this is the only art I can appreciate. I don't know if this is good or bad, but right now she is really beautiful. When I was a boy it would have been really important that she have a pretty face, to go with this body, I mean. I still would like to see her face, but her beauty is no dependent on her The dog gets interested in something on the sidewalk and she bends down to pull at its collar.
BEN: ( voice-over ) I wonder what kind of panties she's wearing. Shit, that's too specific, but. on the other hand, you can never be too specific. but then, the infinitesimal must be, by definition, as infinite as the infinite.
BEN: ( voice-over ) God, she's so young.
GIRL: CUT TO: 15 EXT. BEN'S HOUSE IN SANT MONICA - DAY Ben walks up to his house still carrying the paper bag. A young boy of about thirteen years of age is fixing a beat-up bike. Ben greets him.
BEN: CUT TO: 15 EXT. BEN'S HOUSE IN SANT MONICA - DAY Ben walks up to his house still carrying the paper bag. A young boy of about thirteen years of age is fixing a beat-up bike. Ben greets him.
BEN: Hey, Brad. how's it going?
BRAD: Hey Ben. There were a couple of guys looking for you.
BEN: What did they look like?
BRAD: Suits. I didn't tell them anything. You know anything about gears?
BEN: How'd this happen?
BRAD: I was going real fast down on the beach and something slipped and everything got jammed up.
BEN: The news is not good, kid. This bit here. see there. it's broken. You need a new one.
BRAD: ( upset ) How much, do you think?
BEN: I don't know. I'll find out Ben gets up, picks up his bottles and heads for his house. He looks back and Brad is sitting still by the bike, looking totally dejected. This really seems to upset Ben.
YURI: I missed you, Sera. You have been lonely?
SERA: I'm older now, Yuri.
YURI: You have been lonely?
SERA: ( tensing a little ) I've been all right.
YURI: I will keep you safe. We are both older.
YURI: You have been lonely?
SERA: ( flat voice ) I am lonely, Yuri.
YURI: Yes. so am I.
SERA: ( voice-over ) I had a new dress. we were at the fair, Daddy bought me an ice-cream and I spilt it on my dress.
SERA: . Mom was with Helen, and Dad looked around first to see if she was watching and then he scraped it all off and threw it on the grass and then he kissed me and hugged me and told me it was all 22 INT. SERA'S KITCHEN. LATER THAT DAY Yuri is tucking into a hearty breakfast. Sera plays with her This is such a small apartment, Sera. I cannot stay here. We will find a big apartment. You know how much money I can bring you. I belong in. . wealth and luxury.
YURI: ( planning his day ) This is such a small apartment, Sera. I cannot stay here. We will find a big apartment. You know how much money I can bring you. I belong in. ( laughs ) . wealth and luxury.
YURI: Why did you run away from me in Los Angeles?
YURI: Because you are sly. Mmm? You knew all along that there was more money in Las Vegas. Didn't you?
YURI: You have nothing to fear from me. You know why? Because we belong together, Sera. Don't Sera forces a smile.
SERA: ( quietly ) QUICK CUT TO: 23 INT. ROOM - NIGHT Grainy black-and-white image. Sera on a bed, pinned down by Yuri, who has a knife.
YURI: I'm pleased with you, Sera. how you have moved up in the world. I showed you a glamorous world when I took you off the streets. and how you repay me.
SERA: Where have you been staying?
YURI: With an old friend.
YURI: But that is none of your affair. You will call this morning and book me into a hotel suite where I will make new contacts for us.
SERA: You'll need some money, then.
YURI: ( becoming angry ) It is, after all, Sera, my Yes, of course. How much do you need?
SERA: ( calmly ) Yes, of course. How much do you need?
YURI: ( shaking his head ) All of it. I need to buy many things. all of it!
YURI: ( shouting ) Don't look at me like that.
YURI: It's not so bad. It is I need money, Sera. I need it fast. You must go on the street tonight. For me.
YURI: I need money fast, Sera. I want you back on the street. FADE OUT: FADE IN SLOWLY - SOUND FIRST: 25 INT. BEN'S HOUSE - NIGHT Ben opens his eyes. The only light comes from the TV. The miles Davis record has got caught on a scratch and is repeating the sane phrase over and over again. He looks at his gold Rolex and then fingers the wedding band on his CUT TO: 26 INT. BEN'S BAR. LA - NIGHT Ben is sitting at the bar. He drinks a large glass of something very quickly and then immediately orders another.
BEN: ( charming ) Good evening.
PRETTY WOMAN: ( pleased ) I'm Benjamin.Ben.
BEN: I'm Benjamin.Ben.
PRETTY WOMAN: I'm Teri.
BEN: I'll get you another one. and me too. Mind if I join you?
PRETTY WOMAN: Wow. been drinking all day?
BEN: But of course.
BEN: Why don't we finish these and go to my apartment on the She doesn't respond.
BEN: We can watch a movie and I'll mix you up a gooey blender Ben winces at his own words. He shakes his head.
PRETTY WOMAN: I have to get up pretty early tomorrow. I'll just finish this and go. Thanks anyway.
BEN: ( pathetic ) I really wish that you'd come home with me. You're so cute and I'm really good in bed. believe me. you smell good too.
BEN: No, OK.
PRETTY WOMAN: I have to go now. Thanks She stands to go.
PRETTY WOMAN: Maybe you shouldn't drink so She walks to the door and Ben turns to the bar, watched by he Barman, who is a little concerned.
BEN: ( to himself ) Maybe I shouldn't breathe so much, Teri. Ha. ha.
BARMAN: ( sever voice ) Time to go, buddy. We're closing up.
BEN: Would you. ?
WAITRESS: There's a one-drink minimum per show, I hope you saw the sign when you came in. Anyway, they're supposed to tell you.
BEN: Yes, I heard, and it's not a What do you want?
WAITRESS: What do you want?
BEN: What are my choices?
WAITRESS: Everything's ten dollars, and there's no alcohol.
BEN: No alcohol?
WAITRESS: No alcohol. You gotta get something else. Everything's ten dollars. What do you What do you think I should Non-alcoholic malt beverage?
BEN: What do you think I should Non-alcoholic malt beverage?
WAITRESS: Non-alcoholic malt beverage?
BEN: . Noooo.
WAITRESS: Orange soda?
BEN: Sparkling apple cider?
WAITRESS: Sparkling apple cider?
BEN: Sparkling apple cider?
WAITRESS: Sparkling apple cider?
BEN: One drink minimum per show. Everything's ten dollars. Now. tell me what you want or I'll eighty-six you.
WAITRESS: One drink minimum per show. Everything's ten dollars. Now. tell me what you want or I'll eighty-six you.
BEN: One drink minimum per show. Everything's ten dollars. Now. tell me what you want or I'll eighty-six you.
WAITRESS: One drink minimum per show. Everything's ten dollars. Now. tell me what you want or I'll eighty-six you.
BEN: ( decides ) She writes down W.A.T.E.R. and walks away. Ben calls her Just how much would it cost for you to eighty-six me?
BEN: Just how much would it cost for you to eighty-six me?
WAITRESS: ( hostile ) Ben puts down a hundred on to her tray.
BEN: ( polite ) Could I have fives please? Keep one for yourself.
BEN: To me nothing is more beautiful than the relationship between the reflection of a woman and the woman who has created it.
NEIGHBOR: ( completely uninterested ) No shit!
BEN: Good evening.
HISPANIC GIRL: You wanna date? You wanna date me?
BEN: ( cut to the chase ) I'll give you a hundred dollars for a straight forty- five minutes. You get the Ben shows her the money.
HISPANIC GIRL: ( trying to take him ) The room is twenty. You pay for it.
BEN: OK. but only because I think that the concept of surrender fits in with the big picture right now. How about over He gives her a twenty and indicates a motel across the street. She sets off and he gets out of the car. As he does, a wave of nausea hits him. He shakes his head violently and then lurches across the street, causing two cars to hit their brakes. The camera follows him into the dark parking lot of the motel, where the Hispanic girl is waiting.
BEN: ( slurring badly ) I canremember. if mywifeleffme. or Illeff her. bufuckittanyway.
FLASHBACK: 34 EXT. SUNSET BOULEVARD MOTEL. PARKING-LOT DUMPSTERS - NIGHT At the rear of the motel. Next to some garbage hoppers, the Hispanic girl hugging him and kissing his neck. He tries to kiss her on the mouth, but she turns her face away.
FLASHBACK: 36 EXT. SUNSET BOULEVARD MOTEL. PARKING-LOT DUMPSTERS - NIGHT The Hispanic girl kneeling in front of him, unzipping his trousers. Through a gap in the fence, we see traffic going up and down Sunset.
FLASHBACK: 38 EXT. SUNSET BOULEVARD MOTEL. PARKING-LOT DUMPSTERS - NIGHT The girl takes his hand and kisses it. She begins sucking the fingers, taking the whole hand into her mouth.
BANK GIRL: OK. four thousand, six hundred dollars. one moment, She looks at her computer read-out.
BANK GIRL: That'll leave five dollars in your account. Would you sign the back of the check, You couldn't cash it just like it is?
BEN: ( surprised ) You couldn't cash it just like it is?
BANK GIRL: ( puzzled ) I'm sorry, sir. Is there a Ben picks up a pen and tries to sign, but his hands are shaking so much that he cannot do it.
BEN: ( embarrassed ) Well. to tell you the truth, I'm a little shaky right now. I just had a brain surgery. Why don't I come back after lunch, when I'm feeling a little better? We can take care of it then.
BEN: I think, when I'm done with this, I'll have gin and tonic. Bombay gin and tonic.
BARMAN: ( angry ) You should be having coffee. Do you know what time it is? You're a young man. ( calmer ) It's none of my business, but if you could see what I see, you wouldn't do this to Ben is taken aback by the emotion in his voice. In his mind, cynicism and the desire to cry fight it out. He holds the emotion back, and looks down at the bar.
BEN: I understand what you're saying. I appreciate your concern. Its not my intention to make you uncomfortable. Please. serve me today and I will never come in here If I do, you can eighty-six Sure, sure, I can eighty-six you now if I want to. Stop fucking with me. I don't give a fuck what you do.
BARMAN: Sure, sure, I can eighty-six you now if I want to. Stop fucking with me. I don't give a fuck what you do.
BARMAN: On the house, son. Ben looks at the TV for a sign. None is forthcoming.
BEN: ( voice over ) Are you desirable? Are you irresistible? Maybe if you drank bourbon with me, it would help. Maybe if you kissed me and I could taste the sting in your mouth, it would help.
BEN: If you drank bourbon with me naked. if you smelled of bourbon as you fucked me, it would help. it would increase my esteem for you. If you poured bourbon on to your naked body and said to me. drink this.
BEN: . if you spread your legs and had bourbon dripping from your breasts and you vagina and said drink here. then I could fall in love with you, because then I would have a purpose, to clean you up, and that would prove that I'm worth something. Id lick you clean so you could go away and fuck someone else.
BANK GIRL: Ben takes a moment to come out of his reverie. He smiles and comes to the counter, completely in control of himself.
BEN: I'm back, I've got my check. and baby. I'm ready to sign.
BEN: There. Steady as a fucking rock, excuse my French. Wanna have dinner with me?
BANK GIRL: I'm glad you're feeling better. Do you need a Ben looks at her and smiles.
MANAGER: All rooms to be paid a week in advance, maid service is optional, use of the pool is at your own risk, there is no lifeguard on duty.
BEN'S POV: The sign has changed to The Hole You're In.
BEN: Are you working?
SERA: Are you working?
BEN: Are you working?
SERA: ( tough ) Working? What do you mean, working? I'm walking.
SERA: Isn't it illegal to drink and That's funny. I wonder if you'll take two hundred and fifty dollars to fuck me?
BEN: ( laughs ) That's funny. ( seriously ) I wonder if you'll take two hundred and fifty dollars to fuck me?
BEN: That is, if you'll come to my room for an hour, I will give you five hundred dollars.
SERA: Maybe you shouldn't stand in the road like that. You're pretty drunk.
SERA: ( softer ) You're pretty drunk.
BEN: ( factual ) Not really. My room's not far. The Whole Year Inn. You can drive with me if you She makes no response.
BEN: . or we can walk. or I'll give you cab fare.
BEN: Whatever you want.
SERA: Why don't you give me the money when I'm in the car, and I'll drive you.
BEN: I'm Ben.
SERA: I'm Sera.
BEN: Sarah - with an H?
SERA: No - S.E.R.A.
SERA: You wanna start the engine?
SERA: I'm sort of curious. if you're willing to pay me two- fifty. not that I mind. I mean, I'm OK with that - why aren't you staying in a We can go to one if you'd No, this is fine. I was just Ben switches off the engine but makes no move to get out of the car.
BEN: We can go to one if you'd No, this is fine. I was just Ben switches off the engine but makes no move to get out of the car.
SERA: No, this is fine. I was just Ben switches off the engine but makes no move to get out of the car.
BEN: Well. I'm here because I'm a drunk who tends to pass out at odd hours for unpredictable stretches. I'm going to a hotel soon. A room with a balcony to pass out on. or off.
SERA: Umm. We can stay in the car for an hour if you want. But I really have to go then. It's your time.
BEN: Right, I'll get your door. I tend to fade in and out I guess I do too.
SERA: I guess I do too.
BEN: You what?
SERA: I sometimes fade out.
BEN: Oh. well, maybe we better synchronize our spells. or stagger them.
SERA: ( gently ) You were going to get my He gets out and she waits for him to open the door. She gets out and he offers her his arm. She takes it and they walk into the motel.
SERA: ( amused ) What this room needs. is more booze.
SERA'S POV: There are bottles everywhere. Ben has gone to a lot of troble to lay them out in a pleasing way.
BEN: Do you think so?
SERA: Mind if I use the bathroom?
BEN: Of course.
BEN: Want a drink? I'm having one.
BEN: Of course.
SERA: For two-fifty we can do pretty much what you want. You've been drinking, so it might be better if I got on top, but the other way's fine too. I have some jelly in case you want to fuck my ass, that's up to you. If you want to come in my face, that's OK too, just try to keep it out of my hair, I just washed it. and my eyes, it stings.
SERA: Do you want to fuck now?
BEN: ( confused ) Maybe another drink first. More tequila?
SERA: OK. whatever.
SERA: What's the story? Are you too drunk to come?
BEN: ( sincere ) I don't care about that. There's time left. You can have more money. You can drink all you want. You can talk or listen. Just stay, that's all I want.
SERA: So, Ben, what brings you to Las Vegas? Business They both laugh and Ben hands her the bottle.
BEN: No, I came here to drink. myself. you know.
SERA: To death?
BEN: Yes, that's right.
BEN: I cashed in all of my money, paid my AmEx card, gonna sell the car tomorrow.
SERA: How long's it gonna take, for you to drink yourself to I think about four weeks, and I've got enough for about two hundred and fifty to three hundred dollars a day.
BEN: I think about four weeks, and I've got enough for about two hundred and fifty to three hundred dollars a day.
SERA: Yes. that should do it. What am I? A luxury?
BEN: Yeah. And your meter just ran Ben looks at his watch.
SERA: It's OK. nice watch. Go on. Talk some more.
BEN: In LA I kept running out of booze and the store would be closed because I'd forget to look at my watch. so I decided to move here because nothing ever closes and because I got tired of getting funny looks when I would walk into a bar at six o'clock. even the bartenders started preaching. Here, everyone's from out of town so no one cares, no one is overtly fucking up
SIDE ANGLE: Sera is in focus, Ben is asleep.
YURI: Where have you been?
SERA: It was a slow night. I went to a hotel for a few drinks.
YURI: A full night on the street and this is all?
SERA: Like I said. it was a slow night. I'm sorry. It was hard to score.
SERA: Don't hit me.
YURI: What do you think. you are sixteen years old on Hollywood Boulevard?
SERA: Maybe nobody wants to fuck a chick with a cut on her She throws the knife to Yuri, who catches it. She bends over the table and pulls up her skirt.
SERA: There, go ahead!
YURI: I could kill you. You know He goes to the door.
YURI: Work, tonight, bring me money, no matter the hour.
SERA: I will Yuri. I will.
CONVENTIONEER: About ready for another Yes, that would be great. Are you her for the convention?
SERA: Yes, that would be great. Are you her for the convention?
CONVENTIONEER: Do I look that obvious? My name's Paul.
SERA: No, of course not, just a wild guess. I'm Sera and that's a margarita.
SERA: So. are you alone, or are you just using me to make someone else jealous?
CONVENTIONEER: ( laughs nervously ) Alone. Alone. I'm here alone.
SERA: ( friendly ) Where are you staying?
CONVENTIONEER: ( suspicious ) Right here at the hotel. Why?
SERA: ( moving a little closer ) Well. I thought you might be looking for a date.
CONVENTIONEER: ( shocked ) A date. What, are you a ( voice getting louder ) What do you mean a date? ( and louder ) I've got a wife back home. I just came over to talk for a few minutes.
SERA: ( quietly ) I'm sorry, I guess I She looks around.
SERA: Please don't raise your voice. I won't bother you about it again.
CONVENTIONEER: ( calmer ) Sorry. Look. you seem like a nice girl. I'm just sick of everyone in this town trying to get my money.
CONVENTIONEER: Here, have another drink. I gotta go.
BARMAN: Maybe you should give it a miss for this evening.
SERA'S POV: Ben sitting at a bus stop, drinking out of a cocktail glass. When he sees her he gets up, a little unsteadily.
BEN: I couldn't remember what happened last time. I was afraid that I might have been rude, or mean to you.
BEN: If I was I'm sorry.
SERA: No, just drunk. but that's OK. Where's your car?
BEN: I sold it this morning. I'm going to take cabs from now on in.
BEN: Don't run away.
SERA: ( defensive ) Why should I? I know you're not a cop, so what is it tonight? Another two-fifty to watch you sleep?
SERA: What's up?
BEN: I was looking for you tonight. I don't know if you have a boyfriend.
BEN: . or a girlfriend, but if you have some free time. maybe we could have Are you serious.
SERA: ( tough again, but pleased ) Are you serious.
BEN: ( deadly serious ) I think you know I'm serious. I'll pay you if you like. but I'd like to see No, I can't have dinner with And she hails a taxi, which stops immediately and she gets The Mojave Hotel, please.
SERA: No, I can't have dinner with And she hails a taxi, which stops immediately and she gets The Mojave Hotel, please.
SERA: The Mojave Hotel, please.
SERA: It's me, Yuri.
YURI: Sera! It's.
YURI: . it's late.
SERA: Sorry, Yuri. good night. lots of tricks. I think things are picking up.
YURI: Have you told anyone that I'm Yuri suddenly hears something. He grabs Sera's hand and takes her to the wall. He presses her head to the wall.
SERA: Yuri suddenly hears something. He grabs Sera's hand and takes her to the wall. He presses her head to the wall.
YURI: Do you here that?
YURI: They're talking about me.
YURI: Go, Sera. Go. Stay at home. I will call you tomorrow.
SERA: Yuri. are you.
YURI: ( patiently ) Sera. please go.
YURI: This is very important. and I must listen. Now go.
YURI: ( through the door ) Goodbye, Sera. Don't come back here. I will not see you Sera stands there for a while, almost in shock, and then she begins to walk. The camera follows her as she makes her way down the endless corridor of doors. Ahead of her, three men are walking towards her, checking the door numbers as they make their way. Sera doesn't take them in. They pass and turn a corner. We recognize them as the men from the black Town Car.
ANGLE: The men have stopped outside Yuri's room. The camera pans and we see Sera down the other corridor getting into the FADE OUT: 77 INT. BEN'S ROOM AT THE MOTEL - NIGHT Ben is lying on the bed watching a game show, drinking.
BEN: No thanks. I'm fine.
SERA: Still want to have dinner?
BEN: I have to change and take a shower first. If you want to come home and wait.
SERA: I have to change and take a shower first. If you want to come home and wait.
SERA: We should pick up a bottle of tequila on the way. I owe you You do?
BEN: You do?
BEN: ( to himself ) This is the home of an angel.
BEN: Yes. Take your time. I'm He pours himself another drink.
SERA: You OK?
BEN: Of course. Wow. you look extremely beautiful.
SERA: Thank you. What time is it?
BEN: Don't know. My watch went the way of the car.
BEN: I'm rambling. I really like you. You make me want to talk. I don't know what time it is.
SERA: I like hearing you talk. If you feel up to a short walk, there's a place to eat around the corner. All the food in Vegas is terrible so the place doesn't really matter. How does that sound to you?
BEN: Do they have drinks?
SERA: I'm from the East. I went to college, did an arts course. I now live in Vegas. I think of it as home. I came here deliberately to carve out a life. I was in LA before, but I'll come back to that later. The tough times are behind me now. I can deal with the bad things that happen. There will always be dark characters. But my life is good. It is as I would want it to be. So, why are you a Is that really what you want to ask me?
BEN: Is that really what you want to ask me?
SERA: ( worried ) Well, then I guess this is our first date. or our last. Until now, I wasn't sure it was either.
BEN: ( worried ) Well, then I guess this is our first date. or our last. Until now, I wasn't sure it was either.
SERA: Very clever.
SERA: First. It's our first. I'm just concerned. So. why are you killing yourself?
BEN: Interesting choice of words. I don't remember. I just know that I want to.
SERA: Want to kill yourself? Are you saying that you're drinking as a way to kill And she leans across the table to be close to him, listening intently. Ben becomes uncomfortable and tries to joke it off.
BEN: Or killing myself as a way to Sera continues to stare at him, wanting to know the real answer. He takes a slug from his drink. She sits back.
BEN: We'll talk about it some other time maybe. OK?
BEN: What are you thinking? Are you angry with me?
SERA: ( decides something ) Ben, why don't you stay at my place tonight? I mean. look, you're so drunk. I like you. I trust you.
BEN: That's astonishing. Sera, I hate to think of you in that cheesy motel. I mean.
SERA: I hate to think of you in that cheesy motel. I mean.
SERA: Let's face it, what the fuck are you doing in Las Vegas?
BEN: ( overwhelmed by her ) I'm going to move to a smart hotel, tomorrow if it'll make you feel better. ( looks at her ) Let's talk about tomorrow. Wanna do something?
SERA: ( warmly ) Sure. tonight. Then please stay at my place.
BEN: Sera. you know I'm not much good in the sack.
SERA: It's not about sex, Ben. I'll make you up a bed on the sofa. Do it for me. We can talk till late and then sleep till late. As you know, I am my own boss.
BEN: How long have I been her?
SERA: Three nights, two days. When is your rent coming up at the I don't know. I'll go and sort it out today. Why don't you come?. We'll find a real room for me. You can pick it out, a tower on the strip.
BEN: I don't know. I'll go and sort it out today. Why don't you come?. We'll find a real room for me. You can pick it out, a tower on the strip.
SERA: There's no reason to blow all your money on a hotel room.
BEN: What do you mean?
SERA: What I mean is that you should bring your stuff over here. We're spending all this time together. what the Let's face it, Ben, we're having fun here. I've never done so much talking in my
BEN: Let's face it, Ben, we're having fun here. I've never done so much talking in my
SERA: Let's face it, Ben, we're having fun here. I've never done so much talking in my
BEN: Me neither.
SERA: So! Let's dispense with the formalities. I want you here. now!
BEN: Sera you are crazy.
SERA: So. I'm not too concerned with long term plans.
BEN: Don't you think you'll get a little bored living with a That is what I want. Why don't you go and get your You haven't seen the worst of it. These last few days I've been very controlled. I knock things over. I throw up all the time. Now I feel really good. You're like some kind of antidote that mixes the liquor and keeps me in balance, but that won't last forever. You'll get tired of it really quickly. Believe They sit in silence for a while.
SERA: That is what I want. Why don't you go and get your You haven't seen the worst of it. These last few days I've been very controlled. I knock things over. I throw up all the time. Now I feel really good. You're like some kind of antidote that mixes the liquor and keeps me in balance, but that won't last forever. You'll get tired of it really quickly. Believe They sit in silence for a while.
BEN: You haven't seen the worst of it. These last few days I've been very controlled. I knock things over. I throw up all the time. Now I feel really good. You're like some kind of antidote that mixes the liquor and keeps me in balance, but that won't last forever. You'll get tired of it really quickly. Believe They sit in silence for a while.
SERA: OK, you go back to your hotel and I'll go back to my glamorous life of being She walks out of the room, and into the bathroom, where she sits on the toilet to pee.
SERA: ( to herself ) The only thing I have to come home to is a bottle of Listerine to wash the taste of come out of my mouth. I'm tired of being alone. that's what I'm tired of.
SERA: Don't you like me, Ben?
BEN: ( devastated ) Don't be silly?
SERA: We gotta decide this. right now. Before we go any further. You either stay here with me or.
SERA: . we can't see each other any more.
BEN: Sera. what you don't understand is.
SERA: Ben is deeply troubled. He comes to a decision.
BEN: You can never. never. ask me to stop drinking. Do you I do. I really do. OK. I have to do some shopping alone. You go out for a few drinks and then pick up your things. Don't hurry and I'll be back before you to let you in.
SERA: ( dead serious ) I do. I really do. ( smiles ) OK. I have to do some shopping alone. You go out for a few drinks and then pick up your things. Don't hurry and I'll be back before you to let you in.
BEN: Maybe this isn't a good idea after all.
BEN: Listen, angel. the thing is that I'm nuts about you and this is a bad thing. because my real plan is to die here and you were never even part of my plan. but like I said, I'm nuts about you. wait a minute, I have an idea, And he opens the closet and finds some plastic laundry bags, which he puts his clothes in.
HUSBAND: We didn't know whether to call the police or not.
WIFE: He's been there for about half an hour. My husband thought he'd seen you two together, but I thought it best to wait until you got Yes, he's my friend. I guess he just had a little too much to drink. I'll help him inside. Thanks for the concern. Sorry to trouble you.
SERA: Yes, he's my friend. I guess he just had a little too much to drink. I'll help him inside. Thanks for the concern. Sorry to trouble you.
HUSBAND: ( gallantly ) Well, call me if there's anything I can do.
SERA: Can you wake up?
BEN: Why don't you go in and sit down. I have some gifts for Right. OK.
SERA: Why don't you go in and sit down. I have some gifts for Right. OK.
BEN: Right. OK.
SERA: Don't worry. I got'em.
SERA: Seriously, Ben. I need to keep pretty low-key around here. Maybe next time you could nap this side of the door. That was the landlord.
BEN: Of course.
SERA: Gift number one.
BEN: I used to carry a lot of keys, but one by one they all fell victim to the great condensation. Now I have just this one. which is.
SERA: He shakes his head.
BEN: He shakes his head.
BEN: I was miles away.
BEN: Ah. more gifts. I have to sit down for this.
BEN: Sera, I love that proceed onwards, there is something I need to say. OK?
SERA: I've come this far. here I am, in your house. I want you to let me pay the rent for this month. All right?
BEN: I've come this far. here I am, in your house. I want you to let me pay the rent for this month. All right?
SERA: Because. it's better for me that way. OK?
BEN: Because. it's better for me that way. OK?
SERA: Well. OK.
BEN: Sera. I hope that you understand how I feel about this. First of all, you're welcome to my money. We can buy a couple of cases of liquor and you can have the rest. But I don't think you're talking to me right now about money.
SERA: ( smiling ) No. I think you're talking about you. I'll tell you right now that I'm in love with you. but, be that as it may, I'm not here to force my twisted life into your soul.
BEN: No. I think you're talking about you. I'll tell you right now that I'm in love with you. but, be that as it may, I'm not here to force my twisted life into your soul.
SERA: I know that.
BEN: . and I'm not here to demand your attention to the point where it changes your life. We know I'm a drunk. but that seems to be all right with you. And I know that you're a hooker. I hope you understand that I'm a person who is totally at ease with this. which is not to say that I'm indifferent or that I don't care. I do. it simply means that I trust and accept your judgement. What I'm saying is. that I hope you understand that I Thanks, I do understand. I was worried about how that would be. but now I'm not. And you should know that included with the rent here is a complimentary blow job.
SERA: Thanks, I do understand. I was worried about how that would be. but now I'm not. And you should know that included with the rent here is a complimentary blow job.
BEN: Ah, yes. I suppose sooner or later we ought to fuck.
SERA: Whatever that means. Open your presents.
SERA: Open this one first.
BEN: Very nice.
BEN: This should work very nicely with my suit, which, by the way, is the only item of clothing I brought over from the motel with me.
SERA: Right. the suitcase was clinking. So what did you do with your clothes?
BEN: ( laughing ) I threw them into the garbage., which was perhaps immoral, but I wanted to come to you clean, so to speak. I thought we could go shopping and pick up a pair of jeans and forty-five pairs of underwear and just throw them out each day.
SERA: ( smiling ) Nice talk, Ben. Keep drinking. In between the hundred and one proof breath and the occasional drool, some interesting words fall from your mouth.
SERA: Now, try this one.
BEN: Well. looks like I'm with the right girl.
BEN: I must say that I'm very impressed that you would buy this for me. I know you wouldn't do this without thinking about it. Funny. you did just what I would have done.
BEN: I'm going to fill it right Do you want to go gambling tonight? We could go out and play for a few hours.
SERA: Do you want to go gambling tonight? We could go out and play for a few hours.
BEN: I hadn't planned to gamble. but if you would keep the bulk of my money here, then I could safely blow a couple of hundred He takes out all of his money, peels off a few hundreds and then gives her the rest.
BEN: Giving you money makes me want to come.
SERA: Then come. I'm going to change. Watch TV. I'll be half an hour.
SERA: I am planning to go out and do some work.
BEN: Tomorrow night as a matter of 88 EXT. THE STRIP - NIGHT Ben and Sera walking. The camera follows them. He is wearing his new shirt and looks good in it. She is wearing a green dress and mismatched earrings and looks great. They walk and I like your earrings.
SERA: Tomorrow night as a matter of 88 EXT. THE STRIP - NIGHT Ben and Sera walking. The camera follows them. He is wearing his new shirt and looks good in it. She is wearing a green dress and mismatched earrings and looks great. They walk and I like your earrings.
BEN: I like your earrings.
BEN: I like women who wear mismatched earrings.
SERA: Well, then. I hope we don't run into any tonight.
BEN: ( laughs ) What do you mean?
SERA: I expect some kind of loyalty here. Just because I fuck for money doesn't give you cause to start picking up women and leaving me looking silly.
BEN: And I only have eyes for you. And we both know that you would never become romantically involved with a trick, right?
SERA: ( quietly ) I love you.
SERA: How are you doing?
BEN: Very well. umm. I never expected to have to ask you this again. but how did our evening go? I remember getting to the casino. I remember kissing you. that was really nice but everything after that is a Well - I was prepared for worse, but it wasn't so bad. We were sitting at the bar, talking about blackjack. You seemed just fine, a little drunker than usual, but nothing really strange, but then your head started to droop and I put my arm on your shoulder and then, wham, you swung you arm at me, and fell backwards off your stool into a cocktail waitress. You smashed everything on her tray, it was a real mess. You kept yelling and yelling.
SERA: Well - I was prepared for worse, but it wasn't so bad. We were sitting at the bar, talking about blackjack. You seemed just fine, a little drunker than usual, but nothing really strange, but then your head started to droop and I put my arm on your shoulder and then, wham, you swung you arm at me, and fell backwards off your stool into a cocktail waitress. You smashed everything on her tray, it was a real mess. You kept yelling and yelling.
BEN: Oh, and what did you do?
SERA: I tried to shut you up and help you to your feet but you kept swinging at me - not like you wanted to hit me, but more just waving me away. Security came and when you saw them you stopped yelling. They wanted to carry you out and dump you on the street, but I talked them into letting me walk you out.
BEN: That's impressive. How did you do that?
SERA: I told them you were an alcoholic and T would take you home. I also promised that we would never come in there again.
BEN: Yes, we.
SERA: Yes, we.
BEN: ( holds her hand ) What happened then?
SERA: You were OK for a while, so we walked for about a block and then you said you wanted to go home and fuck, but I think even you knew that wasn't going to happen. We got a cab and you asked him to stop at a liquor store, even though I told you that we had plenty at home. In the store you gave the kid a hundred and told him to keep the change. I asked you if you knew it was a hundred. You said you did, so I let you do it. We got here, you fell asleep on the couch and I covered you up and came to I warned you. . but I'm sorry.
BEN: I warned you. . but I'm sorry.
SERA: Here's my speech. . I know this shouldn't be acceptable to m, but it is. Don't ask me why. I sense that your trouble is very big. and I'm scared for you. and so I'm doing what I think you need me to do. Falling down in casinos is little stuff. It doesn't bother me. It has nothing to do with us.
BEN: That's amazing. What are you? Some sort of angel visiting me from one of my drunk fantasies? How can you be so She turns away to the wall and curls up like a small girl.
SERA: I don't know what you're saying. I'm just using you. I need you. Can we not talk about it any more, please. Not another word.
BEN: Why don't you go back to sleep. I'll go out and buy us some breakfast.
SERA: Be careful.
BEN: Don't worry.
SERA: Ben, I'm working tonight.
BEN: I know.
BEN: A beer and a double kamikaze Sure thing. Anything to eat?
BARTENDER: Sure thing. Anything to eat?
BEN: Not quite yet. First I have to drink myself sober, then. a few crackers, maybe an egg and toast.
BEN: . then I'll go home with the groceries and we'll have breakfast together, and that'll make her feel better about my condition.
BIKER GIRL: Who the fuck are you talking to, Mr? Why are you all dressed up, honey? My, don't you look She runs her tongue around her mouth.
BIKER GIRL: I am very bored with my date. Would you like to buy me a Ben looks around and sees the Biker staring at the two of Do you mind if I buy her a Fuck her. I don't care what the fuck you do with her.
BEN: ( loudly ) Do you mind if I buy her a Fuck her. I don't care what the fuck you do with her.
BIKER: Fuck her. I don't care what the fuck you do with her.
BEN: Maybe I could buy you both a Fuck you. Don't fuck with me, motherfucker. Fuck off. Go to it, she's waiting for her The Biker walks over to the slot machine and begins dropping in quarters, never taking his eyes off Ben and the Girl.
BIKER: Fuck you. Don't fuck with me, motherfucker. Fuck off. Go to it, she's waiting for her The Biker walks over to the slot machine and begins dropping in quarters, never taking his eyes off Ben and the Girl.
BIKER GIRL: See what an asshole he is. I'll have a rum and Coke.
BEN: Barman? A rum and Coke, The Girl leans with her back to the bar, closer to Ben , who is facing the bar on a stool. She brings her face closer to Can I stay with you for a You mean move in with me? Isn't this a bit sudden?
BIKER GIRL: Can I stay with you for a You mean move in with me? Isn't this a bit sudden?
BEN: You mean move in with me? Isn't this a bit sudden?
BIKER GIRL: Oh, I don't have a lot of I don't think my wife would dig it too much.
BEN: ( smiling ) I don't think my wife would dig it too much.
BIKER GIRL: Maybe we could just go find a room and fuck all day. You wouldn't have to tell your wife about that, would you? I could suck you like this.
BEN: See, the thing is. fucking you would be wonderful, but I am deeply in love with The Biker throws down his beer can and walks towards the bar.
BEN: . and it's almost impossible for me to imagine being with someone else.
BIKER: Now listen, asshole, I'm not gonna just sit around and watch her suck on your ear.
BIKER: Now, I know that she came over to you, like she does, you're innocent and give you one chance to walk out of this place. right now.
BIKER GIRL: ( to biker ) Get lost, jerk.
BIKER: What do you say?
BEN: I'm sorry. but she and I have decided to spend a few hours together in a mo -
BARTENDER: You're quite a fighter.
BARTENDER: This may sound silly, but I'm going to have to ask you to leave. It's what we do around here when there's a fight. Men's room is around the CUT TO: 94 EXT. SERA'S HOUSE - MORNING Ben lets himself in with his key. He is carrying a big bag of groceries. His clothes are bloodstained. The Landlady watches from poolside.
BEN: I'm back.
SERA: Oh, no! Oh, fuck, Ben, look at your face. You get in a fight? I thought you didn't fight. Goddammit. How do you feel? Wait here. Sit down.
SERA: Did you say something stupid to someone stupid?
BEN: Absolutely not. ow. I was defending the honor of some poor wayward maiden.
SERA: Why don't you go and finish this in the bathroom. Take a shower and put on your other shirt. I'll fix breakfast and then we'll go shopping and get some new clothes. I think this suit must be unlucky.
SERA: Very creative. Now we can get you a black bow tie and you can look like one of those
BEN: OK, but remember that they wear it because they have to. I wear it because I want to. That'll make me look different. Let's get a drink.
SERA: CUT TO: 96 INT. SHOPPING MALL BAR. DAY Ben needs a drink badly but this is not the best place. Mothers with children, old people and a Waitress with attitude. Ben tries to order but becomes angry when she doesn't bring it straight away. People begin staring. At the next table a dignified older man sits alone.
CLOSE ANGLE: There was no time for me to write a card, with you breathing down my neck all day., so you'll just have to wing it, baby.
BEN: There was no time for me to write a card, with you breathing down my neck all day., so you'll just have to wing it, baby.
BEN: Open it.
SERA: ( pleased ) Your color.
BEN: I think you should wear one at a time. One of these. and one of your others. In fact, I was going to buy just one, fly. as a gift, I mean.
SERA: I'll wear them tonight. one of them.
BEN: Yes. tonight. Put it on.
BEN: You'll be able to feel it, sharp and hot under your ear, as one of the brothers is driving your head, face down into one of the penthouse They are both suddenly deeply shocked by what he has said. They sit in silence for a while. Sera is close to tears. Ben gets up suddenly, puts down a couple of bills and walks away from the table. When he is almost at the door Sera gets up and quickly tries together up all of the packages.
SERA: Ben, wait. please wait for ANGLE ON THE DOOR The dignified older Man stands in Ben's path and places his hands on Ben's shoulders.
MAN: Maybe you should wait for her, sir.
BEN: Because. you can hear in her voice that she really wants you to.
MAN: Because. you can hear in her voice that she really wants you to.
SERA: What was that all about?
BEN: Can we just forget it?
SERA: I don't understand any of Can we just ignore it?
BEN: Can we just ignore it?
BEN: Yes. I'll give you that.
SERA: Yes. I'll give you that.
BEN: Thank you, Sera.
SERA: Do you want me not to go No. we already talked about CUT TO: 98 INT. SERA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT Sera is preparing for work. In the background we can hear the TV next door. She dresses carefully. Black underwear, stockings, heels, a tight black skirt.
BEN: No. we already talked about CUT TO: 98 INT. SERA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT Sera is preparing for work. In the background we can hear the TV next door. She dresses carefully. Black underwear, stockings, heels, a tight black skirt.
BEN: She walks over to him and takes his head and places it between her breasts and kisses the top of his head.
BEN: Maybe I should follow you around and ask one of your tricks what it's like to sleep with you.
SERA: They wouldn't know.
SERA: Maybe you should ask me sometime. I'd be happy to show you.
SERA: I'll be back home around three. If you're back by then we can watch TV or something. I guess what I'm saying is. that I hope you are back when I get home. Please be careful.
BEN: You be careful to. I'm going to miss you.
SERA: Shall we go away for a couple of days?
BEN: Yeah. I'd like that.
SERA: Don't do that to me. Don't frighten me like that.
SERA: Years ago, in LA, I turned a trick on Sunset and Western. The guy was polite and didn't argue about the price. He parked his car and I took him to a house that I had an arrangement with. A fat Mexican woman was watching a TV and I told him to give her the twenty for the room. There were three or four small naked children playing on the floor and we had to step over them to get into the room. The room had a bed and a dresser. He lay on his back on the bed and I put a rubber on him and sucked him for a while until he was hard and then I eased on to him. About twenty minutes later there was a knock on the door and it was the woman saying our time was up. I felt kind of guilty because he hadn't come and I offered to reason with the woman and get another ten minutes, but he said it was all right and began dressing. When we were ready to leave the room he stopped me and. hugged me and kissed me on the cheek. He gave me an extra hundred as a tip and went back to his car. I remember being relieved that I wouldn't have to work again that evening.
BEN: Last spring I happened to walk past a house that I had once patronized. There was a cool breeze blowing off the ocean and through the window I could see a bare leg. The girl must have been taking a break between customers. It was a strange moment for me because it reminded me of my mother and despite the fact that I was late for something already I just stayed there, loving the atmosphere of it and my memory and. the reason I'm telling you this epilogue is that I felt that I'd come full circle.
SERA: Where was that house? The one in LA, I mean.
BEN: Fifth and Mayflower. You know Yes. One of my friends was there. I wonder if you ever clipped her.
SERA: Yes. One of my friends was there. I wonder if you ever clipped her.
BEN: I like it here with you.
SERA: Let's stay for a while.
BEN: CUT TO: 107 INT. MOTEL ROOM - DAY Ben mixes a cocktail for himself, then one for Sera. The camera follows him as he goes.
SERA: I've missed the best sun. Why did you have to pawn your I didn't know I'd ever need it again.
BEN: I didn't know I'd ever need it again.
BEN: Take this off.
SERA: Maybe we should go inside. Come on.
BEN: Sera picks up her towel and lays it down next to him. She kneels and helps him up, trying to pullout the little bits of glass sticking to him. Ben stands unsteadily.
BEN: I'll go and clean up. Perhaps you could take care of this.
SERA: Yes, fine. Don't worry. We'll pay for the chair, and I'll clean all this up, the pool Don't worry.
SERA: You seem prepared for Yeah. we get a lot of screw- ups here.
SERA: She sees that he is already asleep on the bed, his half-naked body covered with countless bits of bloodstained tissue. The image has an almost religious feel to it. The TV is on and a sitcom is playing.
BEN: 112 INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT Sera is cooking.
SERA: I'm in here. You probably don't want to hear about it right now, but I bought some plain rice. I thought it might be something you could eat. So if you get hungry later on, just let me know.
BEN: I think I'm ready for the CUT TO: 118 INT. DINING ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT Ben and Sera sitting opposite each other. He has a bowl of rice, which he is pretending to eat in between sips of vodka. She has a bowl of vegetables and rice. She sits, silently for a while, and then puts down her chopsticks.
SERA: You're pretty sick.
SERA: What are you going to do?
SERA: I want you to go see a He thinks for a while and then turns to meet her gaze. They look right into each other's eyes.
BEN: Sera. I'm not going to see a Sera continues to look at him almost defiantly.
BEN: Maybe it's time I moved to a And do what. rot away in a We're not going to talk about that. Fuck you! I will not talk about that. You're staying here. You are not moving to a hotel.
SERA: And do what. rot away in a We're not going to talk about that. Fuck you! I will not talk about that. You're staying here. You are not moving to a hotel.
BEN: Will you lighten up, please?
SERA: ( close to tears ) One thing. one thing. this is one thing you can do for me. I've given you gallons of free will here! You can do this for me.
SERA: Let's face it. Sick as you are, I'm probably the only thing that's keeping you She stands up
SERA: I have to go to work now.
BLONDE: Hey. that was quite a play. You in for the convention?
BEN: I'd like to fuck you.
BLONDE: I'm very expensive.
BEN: How much to lick your pussy?
BEN: ANGLE ON SERA Her eyes are wet.
SERA: There are limits.
BEN: ( remembering ) Yes. I guess I knew that.
BEN: Perhaps I could crash on the couch for a few hours. and then I'll leave.
SERA: Sorry, guys, but I don't know what you mean. Anyway, I never date more than one guy at a time.
SERA: How much of that money did you guys want to spend?
SERA: ( becoming annoyed with them ) Don't your friends talk? ( no answer ) Try three-hundred for a half ( nervous ) Three hundred for the hour.
SERA: OK. three. and we'll see how it goes. Where are you The Yukon, room twenty-four.
SERA: I'll see you there in fifteen minutes. You can pay me then. Why don't you all take a shower while you're waiting.
SERA: Look. I'll only need one of you at a time. RIGHT? UNDERSTOOD? So. the other two can shower while I'm there. OK?
SERA: Where are the boys this weekend, Frank? Why, hell, Charlie, I sent 'em off to learn the one thing I couldn't teach 'em.
SERA: OK. where's the bedroom, and who's first?
SERA: Forget that. No one's doing that. You'll all go one at a time. I f you want I'll suck you instead, but that's all. Then I'm out of here.
SERA: That's it. Take your money back. I'm leaving.
SERA: ( to the Smallest Boy ) Maybe you'd like to fuck one of your friends in the butt The room goes very quiet. The kid tears up. Sera tries to Hey. I'm sorry.
SERA: Hey. I'm sorry.
VOICE: Go on. fuck her ass.
OTHER VOICE: Look at me. look at me. look at me.
CAB DRIVER: What's the matter, honey, get a back-door delivery you weren't expecting? You gonna be able to pay the fare?
CAB DRIVER: Oh, don't wanna talk to me, unh? Well, don't take it out on me, I'm just covering my ass. What the hell do you expect, stuttin' around like that. dressed like that? You oughta be glad the creep didn't nail ya.
ANGLE: Sera, wearing dark glasses. She looks terrible. Her mouth is swollen and some of the bruising around her eye is visible.
LANDLADY: I'm sorry. but we'd like you out by the end of the week.
DESK CLERK: I'm sorry, ma'am. He never checked back in.
STETSON MAN: What's the problem, honey?. You on strike?
SERA: Let go. What's the problem.
SECURITY GUARD: We don't want you in here, that's the problem. Let's go.
SERA: Don't worry. If you don't want me in here, then I don't want to be in here. Just let go of my arm and I'll walk out of here.
SECURITY GUARD: Yeah. we'll both walk out He steers her firmly across the floor.
SECURITY GUARD: Next time it won't be so fucking easy.
SERA: Hello. hello. Ben? Where the fuck are you? Give me the address.
BLACK DRIVER: What in the hell happened to you, Miss?
SERA: Oh. it was an argument.
BLACK DRIVER: Leave him, Miss. Pretty girl like You could get any man that You wanted.
SERA: Ben. I've been looking for You. Have You been here since You left? It smells bad in here. It's so dark.
BEN: I wanted to see you.
SERA: Oh, Ben. you look so very sick. my love. you're so She goes to the bathroom and returns with a wet face-cloth. She wipes his face.
BEN: I wanted to see you. you're my angel.
SERA: Something went wrong. I'm
BEN: I'm sorry I put us asunder.
BEN: See how hard You make me She excites him with her hand, kissing his face gently. When he is about to come, she straddles him and brings him inside. As he comes, he opens his eyes wide and looks at her.
BEN: You know I love you. yeah?
SERA: ( she comes ) SLOW FADE TO BLACK: FADE IN: Sera is sleeping. A sudden gasp wakes her. Ben is having a spasm. Suddenly his body relaxes. He turns his head, opens his eyes wide and looks straight at her.
BEN: Oh. I'm so sorry.
SERA: Ben. Ben. Ben?
[THE END]: Writers : Mike Figgis John O'Brian
