LEM DOBBS: draft 08/03/98
ENVELOPE: Turns it over to see the return address on the back.
ED RAMA: Answers it. Hispanic. Late 30's. Chairman Mao on his T- shirt notwithstanding, an easygoing sort of fellow. Not looking for any trouble anymore. But once did, and able to handle himself if any shows up. Which it has.
WILSON: Edward Rama?
ED: ( rolling the R ) You're home, then.
WILSON: You're home, then.
WILSON: My name's Wilson.
ED: Knows the name. But just now it's unexpected. He's holding a hot TV dinner, hand protected by a dish towel.
WILSON: You wrote to me about my daughter.
ED: I didn't expect anyone.
WILSON: No reason.
ED: I mean, what has it been six months?
WILSON: Round about, yeah.
ED: I didn't even know who I was writing to just someone with the same last name. She never talked about any family.
WILSON: It was better than a telegram.
WILSON: Who done it, then?
ED: Snuffed her.
WILSON: Snuffed her.
ED: Now, wait up a second, man.
ED: I never said nothin' about nothin' like that. No, no, no. That's not what I wrote to you.
WILSON: No, but between the lines, eh? Mysterious circumstances, and that.
ED: Look, I sent you that newspaper clipping, all right? I told you what I know. It was an accident. I didn't say anything about anybody being "snuffed." This bloke she was bunked up with. This Terry what'sit.
WILSON: This bloke she was bunked up with. This Terry what'sit.
ED: Terry Valentine.
WILSON: Valentine. What's he got to say for I dunno. What's he gonna say? They had a fight that night, she drove away, she was upset? I don't even know the guy. Don't get me wrong, Jenny and me were friends, but we didn't travel in the same social circles. She had her life, I had
ED: I dunno. What's he gonna say? They had a fight that night, she drove away, she was upset? I don't even know the guy. Don't get me wrong, Jenny and me were friends, but we didn't travel in the same social circles. She had her life, I had
ED: Valentine came into the restaurant where I work with Jenny a couple times. He's a money guy. Jenny would say, hey, here's my friend Eddie and he would shake my hand and everything, but he wouldn't even see me, you know what I mean.
WILSON: How long had she been in the States? Near on ten years, wasn't it? Long enough to know her way about, I reckon.
ED: There was an investigation, okay? The car was totalled. Jennifer was . Her neck was broken. On impact, they said. So she wouldn't have . felt the effects of the fire. It happens up there. Happens a lot. What more can I tell you.
WILSON: What more is there.
ED: I'm just sayin' it was a steep hillside. There was no moon that night .
ED: Coulda happened to anyone, man. I never knew her to be reckless. I mean, sure, she would smoke a little grass, or something, have a few drinks. But that's it, nothing more than that.
WILSON: No, not my girl. Self-control, she had. Point of pride. And people don't change, do they.
ED: I dunno . Maybe they do.
WILSON: Going straight, are ya.
ED: ( looks away ) I knew when I was droppin' that letter into the mail slot it was gonna come back and smack me in the face. ( looks at Wilson again ) I did my time, okay? My sister, her ol' man's up in Chino right now doin' eight ( re the family inside ) This ain't your lot?
WILSON: I knew when I was droppin' that letter into the mail slot it was gonna come back and smack me in the face. I did my time, okay? My sister, her ol' man's up in Chino right now doin' eight This ain't your lot?
ED: I knew when I was droppin' that letter into the mail slot it was gonna come back and smack me in the face. I did my time, okay? My sister, her ol' man's up in Chino right now doin' eight This ain't your lot?
WILSON: ( re the family inside ) This ain't your lot?
ED: You kiddin', man? I don't need a wife and screamin' kids. I still got my I go to work, try to keep my life together, put all that shit behind me, man. What d'you want from me.
ED: I go to work, try to keep my life together, put all that shit behind me, man. What d'you want from me.
WILSON: ( calmly smoking ) I only asked.
ED: Couple weeks before she died, Jennifer asked me to drive her downtown. Said she was meeting her boyfriend Valentine. But I think she was looking for him.
WILSON: ( lighting Ed's cigarette ) What, tryin' to catch him with another That's what I thought, man. But it was not a hotel or nothin' that we went to. It was someplace else.
ED: That's what I thought, man. But it was not a hotel or nothin' that we went to. It was someplace else.
WILSON: Where abouts?
ED: Bad place, man. Bad people. Some guys loading some trucks. Some kinda deal goin' down. I don't know and I don't care. Maybe they're shipping fava beans to Eskimos.
WILSON: Did Jenny know?
ED: ( shrugs ) Valentine wasn't even there. If he was into something, if she was involved who can say. ( stands up again ) But I'll tell you something. She stood in front of these dudes, man. Eyeballing them. Checking them out. ( beat ) I felt like she was covering my ass that
ED: I drove her back to Valentine's house.
ED: He was standing outside waiting for her. That's the only other time I ever saw Last time I saw her.
ED: What you gonna do, man? You gonna go to the cops?
WILSON: Nah, coppers don't do nothing, do they.
ED: Those streets up in the hills, man. Gotta be real careful, keep your eye on the ball. Two o'clock in the morning, it's dark, your mind is all agitated, you're drivin' a little too fast . Those curves don't kid around.
ED: You should talk to Elaine. That was her best friend.
WILSON: She didn't write to me, did she.
ED: She didn't know what to say. I thought someone should say something. To someone. With me it was, I don't know Jenny liked me for some reason. I felt like I owed her.
WILSON: Who'd Jenny get it off of this grass or whatever?
ED: ( self-conscious again ) Not me, man. I'm no drug dealer, what you think.
WILSON: ( re Ed's tattoos ) I think you didn't get that lot in the Navy, doing your National Service.
ED: I already told you, man. Corcoran. Know what that is? State prison.
WILSON: Nick's a nick, n' it? No matter what state you're in. State of remorse, most likely for gettin' caught.
ED: But that's not me anymore. That's when I was into the gang lifestyle. That's not who I am now. Five years in the joint that's it for me, man.
WILSON: Just got out meself, didn't I.
ED: Go home, man. Get on a plane.
WILSON: I'll be needing a shooter.
ED: ( comes quickly over ) You're kiddin' me, right?
WILSON: What do I do, then, look in the bleedin' Yellow Pages?
ED: ( an urgent whisper ) These are not guys you can just go run a number on, man.
WILSON: ( looking around ) Thought perhaps there'd be dispensing machines, you know. Bung in your coins, come out with a .44 Magnum, fully-loaded.
ED: Are you a resident of California? You gonna fill out forms, man? Do the background check? Go through a three-day waiting period?
WILSON: Sod that. Gotta get back before my probation officer wonders where I've skived off to.
ED: Probation? Man, you crazy. They shouldn't've let you outta your country, much less prison.
WILSON: Travelling on a dodgy passport, n' all.
WILSON: Which is why I thought, save some time, get what I need under the table, like.
ED: As if resigned and mulling the problem over:
ED: Under the table?
DEALERS: Touting their wares.
VISITORS: Trying out pistol grips or pushing baby carriages. Guys in fatigue jackets with toddlers on their shoulders. Women in stretch pants looking for a little something in personal Doesn't know where to look. At the booth featuring "Classic Cowboy Collectibles" or the most OBESE COUPLE he's ever seen who just walked by.
WILSON: Doesn't know where to look. At the booth featuring "Classic Cowboy Collectibles" or the most OBESE COUPLE he's ever seen who just walked by.
PA SYSTEM: Attention: the long-range vermin- shooting panel is due to commence in two minutes in the blue room at the rear of the Convention Center.
DEMONSTRATION: At a booth selling laser attachments.
BEAM SALESMAN: BeamSight II is easily mountable on any shotgun, rifle, or sidearm and will project a small, bright red dot directly onto the point where your weapon is aimed .
WILSON: Walking past, almost subliminally noting the Young Woman with the symbol of death on her.
TABLE: A .45 passed from a DEALER's hand to Wilson's.
DEALER: Man knows what he likes.
ED: ( he'll talk if Wilson won't ) Lookin' good.
DEALER: ( while Wilson checks ) That's a high-end item. Total What'd you call that the Protector?
ED: What'd you call that the Protector?
DEALER: Yes, sir. Won't find a better CQC on the
ED: CQ what?
DEALER: Close Quarters Combat. Keep one in my own home.
WILSON: Trouble is, I'm not at home, see. Fancied a bit of target shooting, y'know, while I'm here with me mate.
DEALER: Oh really? Where you from?
WILSON: ( sighting the weapon ) Only, we saw there was a show on, thought I might pick something up for a price, type of thing.
DEALER: You came to the right place, sir. My wife's second cousin is English. Well, Scotch-Irish. Can I interest you in a Just luck, this, really. Never been to one of these before.
WILSON: Just luck, this, really. Never been to one of these before.
DEALER: You're in gun country now, my friend.
WILSON: ( picks up another, checks it Been to the Boat Show.
DEALER: ( re Wilson's new selection ) Packs a punch, but it's compact, has accessible features makes a nice concealed-carry piece.
ED: ( playing the reluctant buyer ) He don't have a concealed weapons permit.
WILSON: Don't have time for a lot of paperwork, y'know. Just popped over on a quick I can take care of the paperwork.
DEALER: I can take care of the paperwork.
WILSON: No problem. If with me reporting this gun stolen.
DEALER: No problem. If with me reporting this gun stolen.
WILSON: No. Not at all. Do we?
ED: Not me, man.
WILSON: I mean, it's already a steal, n'it what you said four hundred for this one?
DEALERS: Well, I'll have to add another two hundred on top of that.
WILSON: Oh, aye?
DEALER: ( another look ) . for the paperwork.
WILSON: Violation of my parole, this. Goin' abroad.
ED: You hadda show up on a weekend. This weekend. Wouldn't've even been a gun show . for another month.
WILSON: Fucking out of order, that. Shouldn't be
ED: Now what. You gonna take your new arsenal, go visit Terry Valentine, just like that? Boom bam boom.
WILSON: It's only insurance. Can't be too careful. This Terry Valentine, he's probably a wonderful fella. They were together how long?
ED: Five years, I think. Long time.
WILSON: Well, there you are. Jen must've liked
ED: ( remembering ) Jenny told me she met him at the beach. Got blinded by his smile. ( beat ) You believe that shit? Son of a bitch never smiled at me. Buried her at a "private" service. Private for who. ( confused ) Hang about. I thought you said he come into the restaurant where you worked with He came in with Jenny to the restaurant where I work. That's not where they met.
WILSON: ( confused ) Hang about. I thought you said he come into the restaurant where you worked with He came in with Jenny to the restaurant where I work. That's not where they met.
ED: He came in with Jenny to the restaurant where I work. That's not where they met.
WILSON: And that's where you met Jenny.
ED: No, no Jenny used to work as a waitress. Before she met him. But that's not where she met me. Not in my How'd the two of you hook up, then?
WILSON: How'd the two of you hook up, then?
ED: Oh, Jenny was in my acting class.
LOADING YARD: Walks fast to the cover of the trucks. Passes. Looks around. Cement loading docks and bays. Shuttered doors. He jumps up to one, puts his ear to the metal. Listens awhile.
WILSON: Scans the wall for any sign of an alarm box or anything. Then cocks an ear upwards. CAMERA CRANING UP to show us what he hears: an air-conditioning unit HUMMING away. Which means someone must be inside. Wilson looks back at his entry options. Not the loading doors but a conventional door at one end, with a conventional lock his eye zeroes in on. Gets out his tools, going over. INT. WAREHOUSE HALLWAY. A SCRATCHING at the door. It opens. He's in. Waits. Cautious. Nothing. He starts along the hallway. INT. WAREHOUSE. A SUPERVISOR ( the one from the flash cuts ) does a double take as Wilson passes.
SUPERVISOR: Wilson stops and turns. Says nothing.
SUPERVISOR: How'd you get in here.
WILSON: You walked. What the hell are you doing here.
SUPERVISOR: You walked. What the hell are you doing here.
WILSON: Looking for a bloke named Valentine. Know him? He's expecting you?
SUPERVISOR: He's expecting you?
WILSON: ( beat ) I doubt it.
SUPERVISOR: So why would he want to see you.
WILSON: I have a message for him. About Jennifer Jennifer Wilson.
SUPERVISOR: Jennifer Wilson.
WILSON: You know her?
SUPERVISOR: Yeah. I know her, all right. She came down here once, stirred up a shitstorm. We lost a full day's work, took me weeks to get back on schedule. If she hadn't a' been Terry's woman I would've broke her jaw. 'Course, she's nobody's problem
WILSON: Is Valentine here?
SUPERVISOR: What do you think?
WILSON: Where is he, then?
SUPERVISOR: Listen, get the fuck out of here before you get hurt. Who the fuck do you think you are, waltzing in here, asking
SUPERVISOR: Do you hear me, asshole?
SUPERVISOR: Jesus, you really want your ass kicked, don't you?
SUPERVISOR: Go on, get outta here.
SUPERVISOR: Fuckin' nut. Go on.
WILSON: You tell him. You tell him I'm coming!!
HER POV: A figure by the pool, talking on the phone. His back to us. The pool is spectacular, mosaic tile bottomed.
ADHARA: Approaches, then sits beside him. His voice is soothing, but with the tiniest hint of exasperation that comes with being slightly ahead of everyone.
VALENTINE: ( into phone ) Not before. Not before. Think about it. What does it mean? What no, I'm not. Think. Yes. See? You figured it out all by yourself. I know. Are we done?
VALENTINE: Adhara. I told your father, if you're looking for a name, you can't go wrong with a constellation.
ADHARA: I used to hate it. Now I like it.
VALENTINE: Could be worse, he could've named you
VALENTINE: Polished. Handsome. Charismatic. Especially when he's smiling like he is now. He leans over and kisses her.
VALENTINE: Is there anything in the world that you want or need?
ADHARA: guy in your house.
VALENTINE: Gordon? He's been with me for years. He's not as tough as he looks.
ADHARA: Then what good is he?
VALENTINE: Is it possible that you're too young to be acquainted with the idea of loyalty?
ADHARA: Is that a problem?
VALENTINE: Not for you, clearly.
ADHARA: I'm loyal to things that make me happy.
VALENTINE: Am I a thing?
ADHARA: Well, you're certainly not a person.
VALENTINE: I'm not.
ADHARA: No. You're not specific enough to be a person. You're more like a vibe.
VALENTINE: I'm so glad we're having this chat.
ADHARA: It's not a knock.
VALENTINE: It's not a compliment.
ADHARA: It's an observation. Like: I'm hungry. When are we eating?
VALENTINE: As soon as you get dressed.
ADHARA: What kind of food?
VALENTINE: Anything but Japanese.
ADHARA: I'm not into finger foods. Too fussy.
VALENTINE: I'm not into finger foods. Too fussy.
ADHARA: Like you.
VALENTINE: I don't like do-it-yourself cuisine. Buffets. Salad bars.
ADHARA: You demand to be served. A fork It's just fuel to me. I'm not there for For some, eating is a sensual experience. The sensual experience.
VALENTINE: It's just fuel to me. I'm not there for For some, eating is a sensual experience. The sensual experience.
ADHARA: For some, eating is a sensual experience. The sensual experience.
VALENTINE: That's what Gordon's always saying.
ADHARA: Oh, god.
VALENTINE: ( into phone )
VALENTINE: ( into phone ) I'll be there as soon as I can. We can leave as soon as you're ready.
ADHARA: EXT. BALCONY. EVENING. Valentine approaches Avery.
VALENTINE: There's been some trouble downtown.
AVERY: There's been some trouble downtown.
VALENTINE: What kind?
AVERY: What the papers used to call a "gangland Our black friends?
VALENTINE: Our black friends?
AVERY: No, Terry. They don't work like that. Jenny Wilson's father paid a little visit, left a message.
VALENTINE: I thought he was in prison, in England.
AVERY: Well, either they have a very liberal work-release program, or he's out, because he's here in L.A., looking for
VALENTINE: What do we do? We wait, and we watch.
AVERY: We wait, and we watch.
ADHARA: I'm sorry.
VALENTINE: I'm sorry.
ADHARA: Not who, food. Should we get Italian.
VALENTINE: Not who, food. Should we get Italian.
ADHARA: Not who, food. Should we get Italian.
VALENTINE: Turns to her.
ADHARA: As long as I don't have to pass Gordon again. I'm never ready for that.
VALENTINE: No. I know another way out.
ELAINE: Aware as a wary woman will be of a strange man's presence without necessarily having looked at him. Well aware too that he stayed where he was so she unworriedly unlocks the building's security gate and goes through to the inner
COURTYARD: and closes the gate behind her, now seeing him amble up, arriving as it CLICKS shut between them. He's looking at her a certain way. She looks back. And knows.
ELAINE: You're Jenny's father.
WILSON: Had a feeling it was you.
ELAINE: You look alike.
WILSON: ( cigarette in hand ) Perhaps it was the smoke.
ELAINE: Not her brand.
WILSON: She used to pinch 'em off me. Funny that. One thing she never tried to get me to stop.
ELAINE: Why did you come here?
WILSON: Wanted to talk to you, didn't I?
ELAINE: No, why did you come here? Sort a few things out.
WILSON: Sort a few things out.
ELAINE: Been busy, have you.
WILSON: How d'you mean?
ELAINE: It's been a while.
WILSON: I was skint didn't have no money to get here.
ELAINE: That's not what I heard.
WILSON: What was that, then?
ELAINE: I heard you were what's that adorable phrase? "at Her Majesty's pleasure."
WILSON: It was the bars, then.
ELAINE: In any case, I don't suppose the salary you make sewing mailbags is really commensurate with international airline Sewing mailbags? Me? Never did an honest day's work in my life, dear. Wasn't about to start when I was in stir not with all that leisure time on my And not with all that buried loot you had waiting for you when you got out. From the Wembley Staduim job, wasn't it? Pink Floyd concert receipts. Jenny would've been . fourteen at the time?
WILSON: Sewing mailbags? Me? Never did an honest day's work in my life, dear. Wasn't about to start when I was in stir not with all that leisure time on my And not with all that buried loot you had waiting for you when you got out. From the Wembley Staduim job, wasn't it? Pink Floyd concert receipts. Jenny would've been . fourteen at the time?
ELAINE: And not with all that buried loot you had waiting for you when you got out. From the Wembley Staduim job, wasn't it? Pink Floyd concert receipts. Jenny would've been . fourteen at the time?
WILSON: ( trying to conceal his Hardly buried. Earning interest, love. Earning interest in an offshore account. Tidy little premium per annum, that.
ELAINE: Well, that kind of security can't be bought. Must be more comforting than a daughter to greet you.
WILSON: Here, aren't you gonna let me in.
ELAINE: ( without looking back ) Try calling me again.
ELAINE: I was just going to toss some vegetable rolls in the microwave, open a can of diet soda. Want to take me out?
WILSON: . No, I went in for more improving pastimes. Philosophy classes, language courses, European history, all that lark. Did you know that in Paris in the Eighteenth Century there were more rats in people's houses than there were people in people's houses.
ELAINE: Sounds like Beverly Hills.
WILSON: Here, are you always this sarky?
ELAINE: Sarcastic, moi? Maybe I'll mellow when my ship comes in. It's expected any day now. I'm all packed and ready to go.
WILSON: Weren't you on a television series?
ELAINE: ( has he seen it? ) If it played in England somebody owes me money. Who told you that Eddie?
WILSON: ( yes ) Said it went on for donkey's years.
ELAINE: Three seasons. They found that's the limit of human tolerance when it comes to following the adventures of a family of Mormons on the Chisum Trail. I was wife number three the ingenue.
WILSON: Oh, it just ended, then.
ELAINE: Now who's being sarcastic?
WILSON: When you've lost as many years as I have, love, puts things in perspective, know what I mean.
ELAINE: I'm sorry. I guess the rest of us have no excuse for wondering where the time It must've been the bars.
ELAINE: It's a kind of prison, doing a series. Early to bed, early to rise, no time off for good behavior, you grab the boodle for as long as it lasts. Only difference is you can't get arrested
WILSON: I can't believe Jenny told you all that. About me. She was always so embarrassed.
ELAINE: Not embarrassed.
WILSON: ( correcting ) Not ashamed.
ELAINE: Not ashamed.
ELAINE: She never told Eddie, though.
WILSON: She never told Eddie, though.
ELAINE: She never told anyone else. About the convict strain or is it stain? No, I was privileged. I was someone who helped Jenny efface her past.
WILSON: How'd you manage that, then.
ELAINE: When I'm not honing my craft in episodic television I do double-duty as a voice coach. Not that her accent would have hobbled her progress. Not with that Yeah, well, she started all that in Learnin' 'ow to speak proper. Central School of Speech and Drama. It's no doddle gettin' in there, y'know. At seventeen. They offered her a place at RADA n' all, only she'd've had to wait till the next session and she was always in hurry to get on, was Jenny. She could talk posh without any training, when she was knee-high to a grasshopper. Show up the old man, you know.
WILSON: Yeah, well, she started all that in Learnin' 'ow to speak proper. Central School of Speech and Drama. It's no doddle gettin' in there, y'know. At seventeen. They offered her a place at RADA n' all, only she'd've had to wait till the next session and she was always in hurry to get on, was Jenny. She could talk posh without any training, when she was knee-high to a grasshopper. Show up the old man, you know.
ELAINE: Learnin' 'ow to speak proper. Central School of Speech and Drama. It's no doddle gettin' in there, y'know. At seventeen. They offered her a place at RADA n' all, only she'd've had to wait till the next session and she was always in hurry to get on, was Jenny. She could talk posh without any training, when she was knee-high to a grasshopper. Show up the old man, you know.
WILSON: Learnin' 'ow to speak proper. Central School of Speech and Drama. It's no doddle gettin' in there, y'know. At seventeen. They offered her a place at RADA n' all, only she'd've had to wait till the next session and she was always in hurry to get on, was Jenny. She could talk posh without any training, when she was knee-high to a grasshopper. Show up the old man, you know.
ELAINE: You weren't disappointed in her, then.
WILSON: In Jenny? 'Course not. How could I be. 'Course I wasn't.
ELAINE: She was twenty-one when she came to me. . Straight from leaving you.
WILSON: Footloose and fancy free.
ELAINE: She was happy here. However the two of you might have parted. Don't think she
WILSON: That's the trouble, n' it. She enjoyed life.
ELAINE: When did you get in?
WILSON: Yesterday. Afternoon.
ELAINE: ( occurs to her ) You haven't been lurking outside my building all day.
WILSON: No, I had some other matters to attend to, you know. Getting a car sorted .
ELAINE: I might've been away for the weekend.
WILSON: Well, I reckoned, Saturday night, if you were goin' out, you'd probably have to come home first.
ELAINE: And you've seen Eddie Rama.
WILSON: Yeah, saw Eddie, yeah. Me and him are
ELAINE: I should really give him a call. He's a character, isn't he. Well, not to you. I meant to us squares in the outside He give me your address.
WILSON: He give me your address.
ELAINE: I gave him yours. Said, here, you want to write, I think this is a relative. I guess I thought I was being true to Jenny. Who told me she didn't have a father before proceeding of course to tell me why.
WILSON: Well, don't suppose she did, really, most of her life. On her own after her mum died. Aunts and uncles for a time and then the bright lights beckoned.
ELAINE: Were you still married at the time to Jenny's mother, I mean?
WILSON: Nah, we split up when Jenny was six. Her second husband done a runner after she got sick. They give me compassionate leave from Parkhurst to go visit her in hospital. We were always mates, me and Jenny's mum. I like to think they're together again now. Y'know. Heavenly The address Jenny gave me, that wasn't a prison, was it?
ELAINE: The address Jenny gave me, that wasn't a prison, was it?
WILSON: Nah, accommodation address.
ELAINE: What's that, like a P.O. box.
WILSON: Something like that, yeah.
ELAINE: Where you get your bank statements.
WILSON: Well, you gotta have something permanent, don'tcha. Even if it's a hole in the wall. No matter which jug I might be transferred to, I always got someone on the out checks up on it for me, see. Anything I need to know, comes round on visitor's day word in my ear.
ELAINE: Some word.
WILSON: I already knew. Knew beforehand. When was it supposed to have happened? two o'clock in the morning, Eddie said.
ELAINE: ( watching him ) That's what was estimated.
WILSON: Eight hours difference between here and London. Would've been, what, ten in the morning, my time. I was just coming out on the yard. Now, I was in the habit of saving my newspaper till then. Bit of fresh air, stretch me legs well, stretch the day out, really, that's what you wanna do. And I'll tell ya: I couldn't open the paper. Could not pry the pages apart it was like they was glued together. That's how weak my hands went. Thought I was having heart attack, only I knew I wasn't. Bloke come up to me, he says, Dave, he says, you've gone all white. I said, fuck me, I've been in prison half my life, what d'ya expect. But he was dead on, 'cause I could feel the blood drain right out of me head. And I knew . Something had happened to Jen.
ELAINE: Make yourself at home. Steal something.
ELAINE: There's nothing I can't afford to lose.
ELAINE: Do you even know who Terry Valentine is?
WILSON: Well, I gathered something from the article what Eddie sent me. Some sort of pop music producer, wasn't it.
ELAINE: Rock n' roll, is what we called it. He's sort of a forgotten figure now, but back when the West Coast was the grooviest place on earth, Terry Valentine was where all the happenings happened. More of a kind of promoter, I guess, whatever that means. Just took that whole Southern California Sixties Zeitgeist and ran with it. Packaged and sold it. Made out like a bandit.
WILSON: What's he done lately.
ELAINE: ( brings a tray over ) Lives high off the hog and waits for the next big thing. Like me but on a grander scale of failure.
WILSON: Now, you shouldn't run yourself down. My employer, Mr. Lindgren
ELAINE: Your employer?
WILSON: Mr. Lindgren.
ELAINE: Who's Mr. Lindgren?
WILSON: My employer.
ELAINE: What line is he in.
WILSON: Proprietor of a London firm. Of I see.
ELAINE: I see.
WILSON: Based in London, but with international I bet.
ELAINE: I bet.
WILSON: Various enterprises, style of thing.
ELAINE: I thought you said you never did an honest day's work in your life.
WILSON: Well, not to say Mr. Lindgren is dishonest, exactly.
ELAINE: ( she gets the picture ) Anyhow, he's always saying to me, Dave, never run yourself down, son 'cause there'll always be plenty of people willing to do it for you.
WILSON: Anyhow, he's always saying to me, Dave, never run yourself down, son 'cause there'll always be plenty of people willing to do it for you.
ELAINE: In what capacity are you employed by this Mr. Lindgren?
WILSON: This and that. Y'know. Ways and means.
ELAINE: When he wants someone run down, you're willing to do it for him.
ELAINE: So what's the deal. You and Terry Valentine at twenty paces. Is that what this is about.
WILSON: Why not.
ELAINE: Are you serious.
WILSON: Have you ever known me not to be.
ELAINE: You fuckin' guys and your dicks.
WILSON: What'd you want me to do. Stay at home, twiddlin' me thumbs. Doing sweet F.A. [Fuck All].
ELAINE: You don't believe it was a car accident.
WILSON: What do you think.
ELAINE: Terry's never going to give you satisfaction. Not the type.
WILSON: Depends, don' it.
ELAINE: On what. What makes you so certain.
WILSON: I'll bloody well ask him.
ELAINE: There's the phone. You want his number.
WILSON: That look again.
WILSON: I got his number.
ELAINE: Past caring.
ELAINE: I'm not going to help you.
WILSON: Sips coffee. Bites into a cookie.
ED: ( mindful of the odd car driving Told you you wouldn't be able to see through that gate.
WILSON: Gate's open. I had a butcher's at the Who'd you butcher at the house?
ED: ( alarmed ) Who'd you butcher at the house?
WILSON: Butcher's hook. Look. I don't much reckon those minders of his.
ED: He's brought in the heavy mob.
WILSON: He's brought in the heavy mob.
ED: Extra muscle. Bodyguards.
WILSON: Extra muscle. Bodyguards.
ED: Has he?
WILSON: They look a right load of wallies. Patrolling back and forth outside the gate, all ponced up like the fuckin' Household Cavalry. Watch it.
ED: That was one of them?
WILSON: ( sits up again ) See what I mean? Wearing bloomin' uniforms n' all.
WILSON: Look at that.
WILSON: What's so fucking funny?
ED: Those aren't guards. They're valets.
POV: Now we SEE what Wilson had mistaken for Valentine's private army. Half a dozen VALETS outside Valentine's hilltop home. Dressed in matching attire, a couple of them wielding walkie- RESUME WILSON AND ED Ed's still laughing.
WILSON: Valets. What d'ya mean valets. What is he, then, the Earl of fucking Doncaster?
ED: EXT. VALENTINE'S HOUSE. LATE AFTERNOON. Wilson's car pulls up. He and Ed get out. Wilson engages in a mini tug-of-war with a Valet over his car key, it so rubs him the wrong way having to give it up.
WILSON: Keep it handy, mate, all right? We're not stopping long.
VALET: Yes, sir.
WILSON: Exchanges the key for a card which he turns over in his hand and studies curiously as they head inside.
WILSON: Valets, eh? Aren't we all la-de-da.
ED: ( nervous being here ) I thought you just wanted to check out the house, man.
WILSON: Well, that's what we're doin', n' it.
ED: No one else is even here yet.
WILSON: First in, first out, that's me.
BARTENDER: Gentlemen. What can I get you.
WILSON: ( suggesting Ed take first Dubonnet with a twist? Baby sham? Tomato juice and Tabasco sauce?
ED: ( to Bartender ) Got a Coke?
BATHROOM: Valentine takes one more closer look.
VALENTINE: Is lounging in the large tub. Staring dreamily at a couple of framed posters on the walls: more 60's psychedelia.
ADHARA: Is lounging in the large tub. Staring dreamily at a couple of framed posters on the walls: more 60's psychedelia.
ADHARA: That you have down at your office.
VALENTINE: Different ones.
ADHARA: I like the colors.
VALENTINE: We all did.
ADHARA: It must've been a time. A golden moment. Have you ever dreamed of a place . you don't really recall ever having been to . a place that probably doesn't even exist except in your imagination . somewhere far away, half-remembered when you wake up . but when you were there you spoke the language, you knew your way around . That was the 60's.
VALENTINE: Have you ever dreamed of a place . you don't really recall ever having been to . a place that probably doesn't even exist except in your imagination . somewhere far away, half-remembered when you wake up . but when you were there you spoke the language, you knew your way around . That was the 60's.
VALENTINE: No, it wasn't. Wasn't either.
VALENTINE: It was '66 . early '67. That was all.
POV: A framed photo of JENNY, his daughter.
WILSON: A series of emotions play over his face. He turns SEES Valentine coming down the stairs. Valentine joins the party without noticing him.
VALENTINE: And goes away. Leaving Ed more nervous than ever. INT. VALENTINE'S HOUSE. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY. AFTERNOON. Wilson has come up here. Peeks into one room. Moves along to another: the master bedroom. Opens the door gently. INT. MASTER BATHROOM. Adhara is still enjoying her bath. INT. MASTER BEDROOM. Wilson enters. Careful. Aware that someone's in the adjoining bathroom. The soft RIPPLE of WATER from in there. Perhaps he even glimpses her through the door as he boldly looks around. He notices a video camera on a tripod, a cord running to the television. Suddenly we hear the CHIRP of a cellular phone.
BATHROOM: Adhara reacts.
ADHARA: She gets out of the tub and goes for the nearest towel. Quickly wrapping herself, she exits.
BEDROOM: Adhara enters and goes for her purse. She pulls the RINGING phone out and answers it.
ADHARA: Hello? Hey! Great. You got my message? Yeah. No, Crestview Terrace, not Crestview Place. Yeah, there's like three different ways up the hill; the quick way is to bear to the right. Sure. Okay. Okay. 'Bye!
ADHARA: That's me.
WILSON: At the foot of the stairs. Watches him, all stillness and Catches Wilson's eye for a nanosecond, does a subtle double take, then moves on. INT. VALENTINE'S HOUSE. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY. AFTERNOON. Adhara, dressed, looking great, exits the bedroom and heads for the stairwell. INT. VALENTINE'S HOUSE. DOWNSTAIRS. AFTERNOON. Adhara descends the stairs.
VALENTINE: Catches Wilson's eye for a nanosecond, does a subtle double take, then moves on. INT. VALENTINE'S HOUSE. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY. AFTERNOON. Adhara, dressed, looking great, exits the bedroom and heads for the stairwell. INT. VALENTINE'S HOUSE. DOWNSTAIRS. AFTERNOON. Adhara descends the stairs.
WILSON: Turning to SEE her as she comes down.
ADHARA: Makes her way across the room to Valentine.
ADHARA: Hey, I thought you weren't a buffet I'm a gracious host.
VALENTINE: I'm a gracious host.
WILSON: Watching them, when
GUY: Excuse me?
GUY: Don't you work with Ian?
WILSON: I could swear I met you with Ian at the EMI offices in London.
GUY: I could swear I met you with Ian at the EMI offices in London.
WILSON: Sorry. Wasn't me.
GUY: You sure?
WILSON: Unless I'm not who I think I am.
GUY: That's too bad. Ian's got a good thing going over there.
WILSON: Turned that place completely around. 180 No kidding.
GUY: Turned that place completely around. 180 No kidding.
WILSON: No kidding.
GUY: What I like about Ian, he believes in a chain of command, but not a chain of respect, you understand what I'm saying?
WILSON: Right. Chain of respect. That's good, Yeah. I really admire the guy. Well. Good to meet you.
GUY: Yeah. I really admire the guy. Well. Good to meet you.
WILSON: Yeah. Cheers, mate.
VALENTINE: Still dealing with people desperate to be the focus of his attention. He notices:
VALENTINE: In a SERIES OF CUTS, still being the gracious host, still keeping his eyes on:
VALENTINE: Excuses himself from a group of sycophants and goes to her.
ADHARA: Valentine approaches and begins talking to her, low. After a few moments of conversation, they both look toward:
WILSON: On the deck outside. Joining Ed, who's taken refuge out here with a plate of food. What Wilson can't belleve when he SEES it is that behind Valentine's house, which is on top of a high hill, is nothing but desolate scrub canyon. On the other side of the railing around the deck, which is surely less than regulation height, is a sheer drop into an abyss. Ed, a little more accustomed to L.A. architecture, nods in Wilson edges forward to the rail again.
ED: If you could afford a house like this you would buy a house like this.
WILSON: What are we standing on?
ED: They stand there looking out. Quite a view once you get used to it. Breeze.
WILSON: Could you?
WILSON: Why don't you go nick one of those little cooker what's its warming up the sausages cocktail and meet me in the garage. Look about for a toolbox while you're at it.
ED: Ed moves off. Valentine steps up, smile fully loaded.
VALENTINE: Hi. Terry Valentine.
WILSON: Have we met? There's something I can't EMI in London. I work with Ian.
VALENTINE: Have we met? There's something I can't EMI in London. I work with Ian.
WILSON: EMI in London. I work with Ian.
VALENTINE: You must know Ian.
WILSON: You must know Ian.
VALENTINE: I don't.
WILSON: Great bloke. Really turned things around there. 180 degrees.
VALENTINE: I suppose that's good, unless things were fine the way they were.
WILSON: Oh, I think a shake-up was in order. Definitely. Otherwise, people get lazy, don't they? Forgetful. Start thinking they can get away with things. Gotta shake 'em up now and again, make 'em pay
EXCITED GUY: Terry, Terry .
WILSON: Glad I got to meet you.
EXCITED GUY: Ter . Ter . you gotta .
VALENTINE: Thanks. You, too.
WILSON: Be seein' you. Charles Grodin is here.
EXCITED GUY: Charles Grodin is here.
WILSON: Got it?
WILSON: Ed points to a table, where a toolbox sits. Wilson crosses to it, begins going through the contents.
WILSON: Put the Sterno on the ground, near the center of the garage.
THE GASOLINE: Spills out, slowly but steadily, and slithers toward the garage door. EXT. BETWEEN VALENTINE'S HOUSE AND GARAGE. AFTERNOON. Wilson and Ed walk briskly along the path.
WILSON: ( gives Ed parking ticket ) Bring the motor around. Bang out in front, right?
ED: You goin' back inside?
WILSON: One thing I need.
WILSON: Adjusting his jacket, walking back through the house. Behind him, people are rushing to the railing and looking over. A few yells of "Call an ambulance!" etc. are heard.
VALENTINE: Moves that way.
WILSON: Moving across the room towards the front door. They are heading right toward each other.
HIS POV: Gordon a crumpled, inert heap way down the hill below.
VALENTINE: Turns to look toward the front door. Wilson not to be seen. Valentine pushes through the crowd toward the door. EXT. VALENTINE'S HOUSE. AFTERNOON. Valentine emerges in time to see Ed and Wilson pulling away. Wilson looks at him, impassive, through the passenger window.
AVERY: Is just arriving in his car. Valentine gestures at him. Suddenly we HEAR a loud, bass-heavy WHHUUUMMMPPP. Valentine ( and a few others ) turn toward the sound, which came from:
THE GARAGE: There is smoke coming from under the door. EXT. CANYON ROAD. AFTERNOON. Wilson's car practically tobogganing back down the hill. BOOM! We hear an explosion from back UP the hill. INT. WILSON'S CAR. Ed jumps though he's driving. The gas pedal his most pressing concern. Negotiating the dangerously winding road comes second. Exhilaration mixed with panic.
WILSON: Steady on.
ED: You steady on, man. What the fuck else did you do back there.
WILSON: Flinches, grabs a handhold.
CURVE: Car makes it around on two side wheels.
WILSON: Bloody hell.
WILSON: Bloody hell.
AVERY: In his car, takes a different turn. EXT. ROAD. CAR. Swerves some more curves. Should be some sense here that a similar skyline route would have been taken by Wilson's daughter on her final drive. INT. WILSON'S CAR.
ED: Why didn't you just kill him, you had the That would be too easy.
WILSON: That would be too easy.
ED: Too easy?
WILSON: He's gotta know why.
ED: You think a fuckin' guy like that ever will? What more do you want, man?
WILSON'S CAR: BAM! the trunk pops open as the car rights itself. Avery FIRES again, but the upended trunk is a kind of shield, deflecting the shot. INT. WILSON'S CAR. Despite the fact that Ed is still in the driver's seat ( and managed rather skillfully to avoid crashing ) Wilson acts like he's not there, grabs the steering wheel, jams the car into reverse, virtually sitting on Ed as he pounds his own foot onto the gas pedal and with his ferocious eyes monitoring the door-mirror, steamrolls the car backwards towards Avery. EXT. ROAD. Wilson reverses his car like a speeding tank: SMASHING into Avery's car. Pushing it right off the edge of the road.
AVERY: Falls backwards to the ground as he gets the hell out of the Jumps out of his car. Gun drawn. Advancing on Avery with it AVERY'S CAR CRASHING through underbrush down the steep bank of the WILSON'S FACE SOUND of the divebombing car OVER. Another pointed echo of his daughter's fate.
WILSON: Jumps out of his car. Gun drawn. Advancing on Avery with it AVERY'S CAR CRASHING through underbrush down the steep bank of the WILSON'S FACE SOUND of the divebombing car OVER. Another pointed echo of his daughter's fate.
AVERY'S CAR: CRASHING through underbrush down the steep bank of the WILSON'S FACE SOUND of the divebombing car OVER. Another pointed echo of his daughter's fate.
WILSON'S FACE: SOUND of the divebombing car OVER. Another pointed echo of his daughter's fate.
AVERY: Their eyes meet momentarily. And before Wilson can shoot, Avery rolls over the edge of the road himself.
ED: Calls frantically to Wilson from their car.
ED: C'mon, man! C'mon!
WILSON: That consuming rage overtaken him again for a second. But the exigencies of the moment snap him out of it.
WILSON: Turns on a dime, goes back to the car. Before he's halfway in, Ed's driving them away again. Trunk at the back BANGING up and down, up and down.
AVERY: Pulls himself back up to the road. Brushing himself off. Looking the way they went. He gently tosses his shotgun down into some thick brush where maybe he'll retrieve it later. EXT. VALENTINE'S HOUSE. AFTERNOON. Avery returns, sweating, walking back up the road to where all the action is. Party guests milling outside, waiting for their cars so they can leave. A fire truck, a police car. SMOKE pouring out of Valentine's garage. Valentine finishes talking to a couple of COPS. Walks over to
AVERY: You should have let me do the talking.
VALENTINE: Why, because you're my security This cocksucker nearly burnt my house What did you tell them.
AVERY: ( more concerned about police What did you tell them.
VALENTINE: I told them a long-time employee flipped out. Had a drug problem, refused counselling. Set the garage on fire, then committed suicide. One of my "guests" tried to stop him but how do you stop Gordon.
VALENTINE: I mean, Gordon must weigh a good four hundred pounds.
AVERY: Heavier than that now. But are there any drugs in that stomach to back up your As it happens. I didn't make that part And where is this guest? Don't they want to interview him.
VALENTINE: As it happens. I didn't make that part And where is this guest? Don't they want to interview him.
AVERY: And where is this guest? Don't they want to interview him.
VALENTINE: I don't know everyone here. He was so traumatized he split. Maybe he was Gordon's pusher. Where do
VALENTINE: Where do
AVERY: ( already turning ) We'll find him.
VALENTINE: ( stops him ) No. I mean. Not even your people should be involved. Right? It's too close now.
AVERY: You could use a few of my prime shitkickers up here.
VALENTINE: You think I'm staying?
AVERY: There's already gonna be talk about how people close to you keep falling into Well, can we make it one more. Nowhere the fuck near me.
VALENTINE: Well, can we make it one more. Nowhere the fuck near me.
AVERY: I have other resources.
VALENTINE: Heading that way. Then stops. Backtracks. Something peripherally had caught his eye and he returns to it. His wall of photographs.
WILSON: Pulls the rolled-up photograph of his daughter out of his jacket and looks at it.
AVERY: Walks in. Stops to look around. Spots his two freaks. Walks toward them.
DOORWAY: A mysterious black man has followed Avery in. THOMPSON is his name. He hangs back and watches.
AVERY: Makes contact.
AVERY: Stacy turns to see him. Uncle John looks vacantly.
STACY: ( bored ) Come over here.
AVERY: Come over here.
THOMPSON: At the bar. Keeping his eye on them.
AVERY: Speaks softly. Alone with Stacy.
AVERY: How they goin', kid?
STACY: Not bad.
AVERY: How'd you like to kill someone for me?
STACY: Avery gives him an envelope.
AVERY: Same as last time the rest after.
STACY: ( pockets it ) Where do we go?
AVERY: When you find the guy, you'll know.
STACY: What shit is this. I just do it. I don't prepare it.
AVERY: I'll point you in the right direction, but you'll have to take it to the end- zone. He's a hit-and-run gunman I figure he's not cruising the Polo Lounge.
STACY: This is un-fucking professional.
AVERY: See, a successful man like me has limitations I lose touch at a street level. So I have to depend on a smart boy like you who's closer to the nitty and the gritty than I am.
STACY: Fuck you, Mr. whatever-your-name is. This is a lifestyle I embrace.
AVERY: That's why I'm letting you take care of this. I'm the one with appearances to maintain. But who gives a shit about you? Not even God.
ELAINE: I was in the neighborhood. I come down here quite a bit. Watch the planes taking off. Study the architecture of early David
ELAINE: Jenny was supposed to come to my place that night. She called me, asked if she could come over. She and Terry had been having some trouble. Lately. I don't know about what. On this occasion, it reached some sort of crisis point.
WILSON: She told you all about my details but not about his. Lovely.
ELAINE: She'd never called me like that before. She sounded more . pissed off angry than upset or afraid. But she never turned up. I called the house but only got the answer machine. When they found her . she'd been going the wrong way. Not the direction she'd have gone if she'd been coming to see me. Or coming straight to see me. Who knows. Maybe she just wanted to drive. How did you come to have my address? Found it, did you. Among her things.
WILSON: ( measured ) How did you come to have my address? Found it, did you. Among her things.
ELAINE: You think Terry gave me access to her things? Probably sold her clothes.
WILSON: ( gently urging ) And how did you get it?
ELAINE: Wilson nods. She's sitting on the bed now.
UNCLE JOHN: How much.
STACY: Five thousand.
UNCLE JOHN: ( impressed ) ( taps pocket ) I got half.
STACY: ( taps pocket ) I got half.
UNCLE JOHN: Makin' trouble for someone?
STACY: UNCLE JOHN
UNCLE JOHN: Which kind?
STACY: The forever kind.
BEHIND THEM: Thompson, the mysterious black man, watches them from the hall doorway.
WILSON: How long've you lived here?
ELAINE: This town's been chewing my flesh since . what we now refer to as "the early 70's." Christ, my past became nostalgia and no one even asked me.
WILSON: Early 70's. I was away. Maidstone. Possibly Brixton.
ELAINE: These more highlights from the Zagat prison guide? You don't seem bothered.
WILSON: You don't seem bothered.
ELAINE: You don't know how I've compromised my Tell us about it.
WILSON: Tell us about it.
ELAINE: It's too involved; a lifetime of non- involvement. Anywhere else I'd be an interesting little number, here I'm just SAG number forty-eight thousand and one. SAG meaning Screen Actor's Guild.
WILSON: Oh, I was gonna say .
ELAINE: Still, there have been rewards. It's sunny. And some of the producers who call even have credits.
WILSON: I can see the attraction.
ELAINE: What did you do? To make them take the early 70's away from you.
WILSON: A jeweller's up the West End. We tunnelled our way under the shop floor from the public lavatory down the road. Filthy work. Trouble was, the bloody thing collapsed after we'd made the grab, 'n all. Would you Adam n' Eve it.
ELAINE: You mean if they'd nabbed you before you actually broke and entered you would only have been charged with making a mess.
WILSON: We were lads went down there Sunday evening, we weren't discovered till the Monday. Good job we were still breathing.
ELAINE: It didn't discourage you, though.
WILSON: From pursuing your chosen profession.
ELAINE: From pursuing your chosen profession.
WILSON: I'll tell ya something: it made me a model prisoner. Put me right off any escape attempts. Tunnel my way to freedom after that experience? Not bloody likely.
ELAINE: I was inside once. I punched a cop at a Did you. What was that in aid of?
WILSON: Did you. What was that in aid of?
ELAINE: Who remembers.
WILSON: Get seven years, did you?
ELAINE: Overnight. What about just now?
WILSON: Just now? Or is all this just new to you?
ELAINE: ( lies back, regards him Or is all this just new to you?
WILSON: It's true. Has to be said. I got off to a slow start.
ELAINE: I don't believe it.
WILSON: Honest. Didn't know where to look till I was 21.
ELAINE: Pushing the legal limit even then.
WILSON: Me mate introduced me to a woman up the street. Funnily enough, she was married to a milkman. Straight up. I said, "Good is she? Been around?" He said, "Good? Listen, mush, it's not that she's been around, it's that she's been around hell of a long time." Your most recent incarceration. What was that for?
ELAINE: Your most recent incarceration. What was that for?
WILSON: It was for nine years. The last nine years.
ADHARA: I've lived in L.A. all my life, I've never done this drive.
VALENTINE: All your life. That happened while I swam the length of my pool. What's the matter?
VALENTINE: What's the matter?
ADHARA: Nothing. I guess it's hard to pass on this road.
VALENTINE: The freeway's faster, but lacks a certain Just feels like the car behind has been following us the longest time.
ADHARA: Just feels like the car behind has been following us the longest time.
VALENTINE: I sure hope so.
TOM: All I'm sayin' is travel time shouldn't be the same rate. Travel time is down time, right? I mean, we're not even in the same car as the client. You told me the job was at the house. When we get to it. Well, are we shadowing the client right now or are we just going the same way? The company I was with in Seattle, these distinctions were made. Now, I don't dispute him getting the full Seniority and all that. But if I'm getting paid the same hourly rate when we're at the house as I am in this car, that doesn't sit well with me and I feel obliged to say so. 'Cause in Seattle what you're paying now for so-called travel time was half what we got for actual clock-time with the client. So I just feel we should get more when the job actually commences.
LARRY: . I'd really like to eat your pussy.
STACY: ( after laughing loudly at a I believe in mocking the afflicted. Good for 'em. Makes 'em stronger.
STACY: ( spotting a woman with a dog ) Ever take a look at the women who work in pet stores? Wow.
STACY: ( as a fat jogger passes ) Good luck.
STACY: ( watching someone else go by ) Jesus, are you gay enough or what.
STACY: ( barely out of earshot of a Very attractive. Good idea. Now I really want to fuck you.
STACY: ( after a long time in silence, . you can always tell the ones who'll do ( regarding some other Kinda makes you wonder why more people don't put a bullet through their fuckin' skulls, doesn't it.
STACY: ( regarding some other Kinda makes you wonder why more people don't put a bullet through their fuckin' skulls, doesn't it.
STACY: ( reading a newspaper ) Looks like they just airbrushed the dick out of his mouth.
STACY: ( leaning back on his elbows ) Why don't they have TV shows about people whose daily lives you'd be interested in watching. Y'know. Like SKINNY LITTLE WEAKLING. Or BIG FAT GUY. SICK OLD MAN. FAMILY OF LOSERS. Wouldn't that be good?
STACY: ( sitting up ) Two blacks and a Mexican in a car. Who's I don't know.
UNCLE JOHN: I don't know.
STACY: The L.A.P.D.
STACY: ( observing a "fast-walker" ) Oh yeah, keep doing that. That's really ( his gaze following another Can't you do something about your ass?
STACY: ( his gaze following another Can't you do something about your ass?
STACY: ( his head turning after someone Other people's lives scare the shit out of me.
STACY: ( watching some guy rooting in a "Homeless" people. Fuck them. Remember when they were just bums? Everyone with an axe to grind. Like to grind in their face. Pretty soon there'll be shit-in- your-pants rights groups. Stupidity ( glad he's who he is and not Wonder what it's like being a dumb guy in a dumb suit trying to cross the street.
STACY: ( glad he's who he is and not Wonder what it's like being a dumb guy in a dumb suit trying to cross the street.
STACY: ( staring at another sad couple ) Life sure is a minefield.
STACY: ( clocking another female ) Look at that one. She's really been ( in a contemplative mode ) I'd love to be famous so I could snub ordinary people. Imagine, you're famous, you're sitting in a restaurant, some fool comes up to you, wants you to sign your name on his napkin, his wife is there, it would be something these poor saps would cherish the rest of their lives, talk about to their cretin friends. Bam! You tell 'em to FUCK OFF! God, I'd love
STACY: ( in a contemplative mode ) I'd love to be famous so I could snub ordinary people. Imagine, you're famous, you're sitting in a restaurant, some fool comes up to you, wants you to sign your name on his napkin, his wife is there, it would be something these poor saps would cherish the rest of their lives, talk about to their cretin friends. Bam! You tell 'em to FUCK OFF! God, I'd love
UNCLE JOHN: Is that her? I bet that's her.
POV: Across the street, Elaine comes out of her building. ( We're supposing this is an apartment building somewhat worth living in that has outdoor parking of some kind, visible from the street, or only street parking. )
UNCLE JOHN: Maybe she doesn't even know the English Avery said she was tight with his That don't mean nothin'.
STACY: ( driving ) Avery said she was tight with his That don't mean nothin'.
UNCLE JOHN: That don't mean nothin'.
UNCLE JOHN: She's nice lookin'.
STACY: So what.
UNCLE JOHN: I dunno. I just said she's nice lookin'.
STACY: And I said so what. You think she's any What d'you mean, any happier?
UNCLE JOHN: What d'you mean, any happier?
STACY: Any happier than any other asshole in I dunno. I never met her.
UNCLE JOHN: I dunno. I never met her.
ELAINE: At a mic. Wearing headphones. Matching her voice to the model's lip movements. Looping this commercial or whatever it is. INT. HALLWAY. Wilson. Comes to a window where he can see Elaine inside in the sound-proofed studio.
ELAINE: they want Southern, I do Southern, they want Midwest, I do Midwest, they want tall, blonde, and twenty-two, I'm shit out of luck. One thing I can't do is English. Americans can't. Shouldn't even try. And Laurence Olivier couldn't do us.
WILSON: You ever been to London?
ELAINE: Only in the movies.
WILSON: I've 'ardly ever left it.
ELAINE: Yeah, well, you're here now where hurricanes hardly ever happen.
WILSON: I've got the hang of the driving. Found this place all right.
ELAINE: Stick with me, kid. Looks big when you get here but you can cover it in five So, is there anybody in your family who's not a criminal?
WILSON: Not that I recall.
ELAINE: What about your grandmother?
WILSON: Nah she was married to me grandad he was as bent as a boomerang used to make knuckle-dusters down the shop. Crafty old sod.
ELAINE: He alive to see this?
WILSON: ( shakes head ) Dropped dead in the stalls in the Odeon, Muswell Hill. Watching Doris Day.
ELAINE: What'd your father do?
WILSON: Black market during the war.
ELAINE: I guess you're just habitual.
WILSON: You sound like my fucking probation Won't he be looking for you about now?
ELAINE: Won't he be looking for you about now?
WILSON: Good luck to him. He couldn't find his prick if he didn't wear Y-fronts.
ELAINE: Minor officials bother you, don't they?
WILSON: Do us a favor. Can't even go have a slash without 'em saying, what're you going in there for?
STACY: Hi, kids.
UNCLE JOHN: Across from Stacy. Freezes, his own gun in hand.
WILSON: Hand on his .45 now. But a fourth Black Guy coming up behind him. Wilson lowers the .45.
ELAINE: Flattened herself back against a wall. Petrified.
STACY: Sits on the floor. Holds his hurt face. Thompson walks over and picks up Stacy's gun. One of the other blacks relieves a reluctant Uncle John of his.
THOMPSON: ( stops at Wilson ) Come with us.
ELAINE: Tell me you wouldn't prefer a steady
WILSON: I got a steady income I'm on the dole.
ELAINE: ( lights up ) A leech on the welfare state in addition. You don't miss a trick.
WILSON: I fiddle it. They got me down as an immigrant with five kids.
ELAINE: Yeah . Jenny spoke fondly of her imaginary siblings. Do you remember the last time you saw Last time might as well've been the first. I remember all the times, don't I. Watching her grow up in increments.
WILSON: Last time might as well've been the first. I remember all the times, don't I. Watching her grow up in increments.
ELAINE: She told me you were a ghost in her life. Daddy the friendly ghost. Coming back to haunt her.
WILSON: Well, she twigged by the time she was eight or nine that daddy wasn't in the Royal Marines or doing scientific research in the jungles of Borneo or playing Iago in a worldwide tour of
ELAINE: Still, you could never . do what she
WILSON: She used to tell me she'd turn me in. Little kid. Ten year old. "If you're naughty, Dad, I'll tell on ya." She didn't want me sent down again, see. When I was planning some job. "I'll tell 'em, Dad, I promise I will. Here, look, I'm calling the Old Bill right now" picking up the telephone. I can see her, the phone in her hand. Became a sort of joke between us. Only it wasn't a joke.
ELAINE: She never would have turned you in, not in a million years.
WILSON: I know that. But as time went on . well, it wasn't a joke, was it? She had a feeling about it about the last job how long I'd get the hook for. Said she wouldn't be there this time when I got out.
WILSON: This is where I come in. How's it going, squire, all right? Now listen when I was in the nick second time, it was no, third. Third stretch, yeah. There was this screw had it in for me. That geezer was top of my list. Two years after I was slung, I saw him. He was sitting on a bench in Holland Park. There was no one else about. I coulda gone up behind him and snapped his fucking neck. But I left it. Coulda nobbled him, but I didn't. 'Cos what I thought I wanted wasn't what I wanted. What I thought I was thinking about was something else. This berk on the bench wasn't worth my time. See what I mean? It didn't matter. It meant sod all in the end.
FEATHER: There's one thing I don't understand. The thing I don't understand . is every motherfucking thing you're saying.
WILSON: Look, mush, you're the guv'nor here, I can see that, I'm on your manor now, right. So there's no need to get out of your pram. I'm Johnny-come-lately to all this. Whatever the bollocks between you and this slag Valentine, it's got nothing to do with me. I don't wanna know.
FEATHER: Well, I'll tell you. I believe this Valentine screwed me out of a fair sum of I can well believe it. I'm sure he has done, son. He's about as straight as a dog's hind leg.
WILSON: I can well believe it. I'm sure he has done, son. He's about as straight as a dog's hind leg.
FEATHER: But I can't be sure. I don't even know who he is. He's too insulated. Too many layers around him.
WILSON: Your guess is as good as mine, mate. I'm here on another matter entirely.
FEATHER: ( moves to window ) Yeah, I guess you are.
WILSON: Good job your lot showed up when they did or it would've been me for the high jump.
FEATHER: That dude who works for Valentine. He's the one sent those guys after you. You know that.
WILSON: Yeah. Shouldn't wonder. Must've done.
FEATHER: So what's your beef, pal?
WILSON: Nothing financial. Strictly personal. I can see how all this import-export malarkey might give rise to confusion where I'm concerned. A foreigner, showing up unexpectedly, like.
FEATHER: ( looks at him ) It was you. Downtown.
WILSON: ( all innocent ) Because that wasn't anything to do with me. And suspicion has been cast in my ( pondering ) Didn't make any sense. Choosing those shitheads over me, cutting me out of the deal, then screwing them over too.
FEATHER: Because that wasn't anything to do with me. And suspicion has been cast in my Didn't make any sense. Choosing those shitheads over me, cutting me out of the deal, then screwing them over too.
WILSON: No, I can reassure you on that point. Valentine was just as surprised by that turn of events as you.
FEATHER: He'd already grabbed more than his allotted cut. Didn't think he'd be so bold as to take all of it.
WILSON: All of what?
FEATHER: Of the deal, man.
WILSON: Oh, yeah, right. The deal.
FEATHER: But if you're mad at him too and he's mad at you . that must make us pals.
WILSON: As you prefer, squire. As you prefer.
FEATHER: ( weary of his life ) In which case I'll just do what I usually And that is?
WILSON: And that is?
FEATHER: What am I doing?
WILSON: Looking the other way.
TOM: ( to Rick ) I mean, how much are you getting? Just as a point of interest. See, I didn't realize there was a sliding scale.
AVERY: At a payphone. His idiots in the background. Dials a INT. POOL HALL. DAY. Stacy. Nasty bruise on his cheek. Takes a cue off the rack. Chalks up.
STACY: Straight rotation, no shit, call your Lemme break.
UNCLE JOHN: Lemme break.
CREEP: You broke last time.
STACY: Let him break - he likes to break.
CREEP: Fuck you.
STACY: I wouldn't talk.
CREEP: I saw your mother on the Strip last night. She went up to three guys, said she'd like 'em to stick one in each, know what I mean?
STACY: I saw your mother on the Strip last night. She went up to three guys, said she'd like 'em to stick one in each, know what I mean?
BARTENDER: ( calls ) I can do without you inhibiting my
STACY: ( into phone ) We've been fired.
UNCLE JOHN: Hangs up. Goes back to Uncle John. Picks up his cue again.
STACY: Hangs up. Goes back to Uncle John. Picks up his cue again.
GRAMMS: ( re: the burnt garage ) Valentine had himself a party, I hear.
FIELDING: ( by rote ) My client has already given a statement regarding yesterday's events.
GRAMMS: statement. You see, my client the United States Government would love to get a statement about a few of the deals going down with your client.
FIELDING: Deals? My client is involved in any number of deals at any given moment. You'd have to be more specific.
GRAMMS: Your client have a deal in Long Beach? How about downtown? There's some folks there oh, wait, they're all dead. Any of this ring a bell?
FIELDING: My client is an entrepreneur. I am his lawyer, not his business manager.
GRAMMS: So you wouldn't have any idea how your client continues to make so much fucking He's always been very forward-thinking. He invested wisely.
FIELDING: He's always been very forward-thinking. He invested wisely.
GRAMMS: Where is he now?
FIELDING: He had urgent business in the north.
WILSON: ( over ) Where's Big Sur?
ELAINE: ( over ) Up the coast.
WILSON: ( over ) How far?
ELAINE: ( over ) I don't know few hours, I guess.
WILSON: ( over ) Fancy it?
ELAINE: ( over ) I could use a vacation. Of course, I keep forgetting, for you this is a ( over ) Never thought of that. ( grunt of laughter ) Busman's holiday.
WILSON: ( over ) Never thought of that. ( grunt of laughter ) Busman's holiday.
ELAINE: ( over ) What's in Big Sur?
WILSON: ( over ) That's where Valentine's scarpered.
ELAINE: ( over ) How do you know?
WILSON: ( over ) Bloke told me. ( over ) You shouldn't go back to your place. Not till . this is resolved.
ELAINE: ( over ) I hear it's a nice drive.
ED: What d'you say, Elaine?
ELAINE: Not much you?
ED: Last time I saw you, weren't you up for some equity-waiver thing?
ELAINE: Last time I saw you, weren't you up for some equity-waiver thing?
ED: Last time I saw you, weren't you up for some equity-waiver thing?
ELAINE: I was gonna be in that Michael Mann movie, you know with Pacino and DeNiro. Got three callbacks.
ED: I was gonna be in that Michael Mann movie, you know with Pacino and DeNiro. Got three callbacks.
ELAINE: Didn't get it.
ED: Didn't get it.
ELAINE: Well, those are the breaks.
ED: Not no more, they ain't. I quit that acting shit, man.
ELAINE: You just cooking then?
ED: Hell, no. I started writing.
UNCLE JOHN: We coulda used the other two-and-a-half There's more than a measly few grand in There is?
STACY: There's more than a measly few grand in There is?
UNCLE JOHN: There is?
STACY: Something's on.
UNCLE JOHN: I happen to know more about Mr. Whatever- his-name-is than he thinks I know about him and his operation.
STACY: I happen to know more about Mr. Whatever- his-name-is than he thinks I know about him and his operation.
UNCLE JOHN: You do?
STACY: You bet.
UNCLE JOHN: Like what.
STACY: Like he'd never hire me for real. Not week-to-week. I don't have the credentials. He thinks I'm just a sociopath, someone he can turn to when he needs "plausible denial."
UNCLE JOHN: Well, we blew it, didn't we? He ain't "He ain't wrong." Listen, I know this asshole who did just go to work for him. Full-time. And this dickhead's parents just told me he took a road trip up the coast. That's the type of individual gets hired, someone who'll shoot his mouth off to his family while on the job.
STACY: ( savage mimicry ) "He ain't wrong." Listen, I know this asshole who did just go to work for him. Full-time. And this dickhead's parents just told me he took a road trip up the coast. That's the type of individual gets hired, someone who'll shoot his mouth off to his family while on the job.
UNCLE JOHN: I don't get it.
STACY: I don't know who that English guy is. Some kind of courier or something. Maybe a seller. Maybe a buyer. But Mr. Avery wanted him, those jigs wanted him and I betcha there's a briefcase somewhere.
UNCLE JOHN: What's in it?
STACY: ( shrugs ) Drugs? Cash? Both if we're lucky.
UNCLE JOHN: How we gonna get that lucky?
STACY: While they're all fucking each other over . couple of parties like us could move right in.
ED: I've been wondering something.
WILSON: Do you have any friends, man?
ED: Do you have any friends, man?
WILSON: Yeah, I suppose. Call 'em that, yeah. Down the boozer Saturday night. Meet some of the lads.
ELAINE: ( a little more pointed ) Friends and colleagues.
WILSON: You can't count on very many people, that's the trouble. Number of times a decent job's been cocked up .
ELAINE: Poor baby.
WILSON: Useless gits. I was gonna do the Post Office once.
ED: What post office?
WILSON: The lot. The whole British bloody Post Office. I had a brilliant plan all worked out work of genius, it was. Could I get anybody interested? No they're too busy pinching orange squash from the milkman. Lazy sods. Jumble sale on in Watford, they'll be up at the crack of dawn.
ELAINE: You're just on a higher plane, Wilson.
WILSON: Too bleeding true, 'n' it.
VALENTINE: Hello there.
SUSAN: What are you doing here?
VALENTINE: Exercising my visitation rights.
SUSAN: Since when?
VALENTINE: I miss my kids.
SUSAN: They're at college. Or doesn't your accountant even tell you where the money goes anymore.
VALENTINE: You've made it . brighter.
SUSAN: I don't want you here, Terry.
VALENTINE: Sure you do. Don't shut the door I have people with
SUSAN: What kind of trouble are you in?
VALENTINE: No trouble. Surely you can think of somewhere else to take one of your chippies for a quick I just need . somewhere remote. Away from L.A. For a couple of days. I pay for this house too.
SUSAN: Surely you can think of somewhere else to take one of your chippies for a quick I just need . somewhere remote. Away from L.A. For a couple of days. I pay for this house too.
VALENTINE: He actually puts his hands on her arms. To hold her firm while he locks onto her eyes. And doesn't smile. Susan reads him. He's not claiming ownership rights. He's telling her this house, because of the connection to him, is a target of some kind.
SUSAN: What have you done?
AVERY: ( to Valentine ) We weren't followed. ( to Susan ) ( moving, looking around ) Where's . what's-his-name Fred
VALENTINE: ( moving, looking around ) Where's . what's-his-name Fred
SUSAN: You know his name is Frank.
VALENTINE: Is he here?
SUSAN: You know I don't live with him.
VALENTINE: Go to him. Go to his studio, or writers workshop or artists colony, Esselin retreat, nudist camp
SUSAN: Are you finished?
VALENTINE: In a couple of days this whole thing
SUSAN: Who's looking for you?
VALENTINE: Go now.
SUSAN: It's been five minutes and I'm packing to leave again. I can't believe this.
VALENTINE: That's right, your life is Shit, and I'm to blame. It's that simple.
SUSAN: everything. Losing inhibitions and chicks without bras didn't have to lead to hardcore porno in every American household: that was you. The first on your block to turn on a camera in a hot tub and peddle it to your friends. A little recreational pot didn't inevitably have to lead to the eventual devastation of the inner cities: you made that happen, the first time you bought a bigger stash than you yourself meant to smoke. It happened when you made your first buck hyping some so-called "event" that was over before it began or marketed some "product" whose only value was its instant disposability. You were the first person to see there was a lot of money to be made selling Navajo rugs you've even stolen from the fucking Indians! You looked at Charlie Manson when all he had to show for himself was a guitar instead of a knife and saw another merry prankster, the freedom of the frontier. Your pal here He saw gated communities. Rich people coming to him with their money, terrified of what people like you had left of this society. Why invest in a marriage and children when you had him? He's your oracle. But you couldn't even trust in friendship, could you? Still he's the dog you call for its dinner. Because everything that might once have been fun or nice or sweet you had to turn mean and cold and sour. That was your "genius," Terry. Haven't you read your own press?
ELAINE: ( finding herself at another What is it, you just like the reassuring smell of disinfectant?
ED: Hey, Elaine. You even know what he's saying half the time?
ELAINE: No, but I know what he means.
VALENTINE: ( finally, to Avery ) Do any of these guys cook?
ED: . Reminds me of Jennifer.
ELAINE: ( barely perceptible nod ) Hard to miss.
ED: I thought maybe you just came for the I'd rather be with him than without him. I don't want to be found dead in L.A.
ELAINE: I'd rather be with him than without him. I don't want to be found dead in L.A.
VALENTINE: Turns to look through the sliding glass doors.
HIS POV: Beyond the deck stands Larry, his back to us, facing the EXT. VALENTINE HOUSE. BACK YARD. NIGHT. Looking toward the house, Larry in the foreground, facing us. He takes a bite from a cinnamon granola bar, then looks at it unhappily as he chews.
LARRY: EXT. VALENTINE HOUSE, ANOTHER ANGLE. NIGHT. Looking at the house from the top of the hill. Rick stands in the driveway next to Valentine's car, smoking a cigarette.
REVERSE ANGLE: Wilson and Ed watching him. Wilson nods his head to the left, and Ed moves in that direction. Wilson moves quietly off to the right. INT. VALENTINE HOUSE. LIVING ROOM. NIGHT. Valentine and Avery, still watching TV.
VALENTINE: ( re: the channel ) Check the news.
AVERY: Where's the remote?
HIS POV: The driveway, car at the top partially visible. No sign of His brow furrows.
AVERY: His brow furrows.
VALENTINE: Notices this, looks out toward the backyard.
HIS POV: Same as before, except Larry isn't there.
VALENTINE: Moves to the sliding glass door to get a better look at the deck and back yard. Still no Larry.
VALENTINE: Where's Larry?
AVERY: Leaves the window and moves to Valentine. Tom has joined them. After a beat:
AVERY: Turn all the lights out. I'll get Adhara.
VALENTINE: What's happening?
AVERY: Stay away from the windows.
ADHARA: Uh, you've heard of knocking?
AVERY: I need you to come with me.
ADHARA: Why, what
AVERY: She sees in his expression that something is up.
ADHARA: INT. BIG SUR HOUSE. LIVING ROOM. NIGHT. Tom and Valentine have finally found the light switches, and the room is dark. Valentine moves slowly to the window, takes a tentative peek.
HIS POV: The driveway. Hard to see. Is there something moving out by the shed?
AVERY: ( off ) I thought I said stay away from the
AVERY: Entering the kitchen with Adhara in tow. He brings her around behind the counter.
AVERY: Everybody in the kitchen.
AVERY: Behind the counter.
ADHARA: ( scared ) What's going on?
VALENTINE: We think someone is here.
ADHARA: We think?
VALENTINE: We can't find . . two of our guys.
TOM: ( fucking typical ) Larry and Rick.
ADHARA: Did somebody call the cops?
VALENTINE: Why not?
ADHARA: Why not?
VALENTINE: Because I'm taking care of it.
AVERY: Because I'm taking care of it.
ADHARA: You guys are fucking nuts, I'm calling
ADHARA: Mr. Avery.
TOM: Mr. Avery.
THEIR POV: A silhouetted figure is tentatively making its way along the porch, trying not to be seen. We don't get a very clear Draws his gun and takes aim.
AVERY: Draws his gun and takes aim.
THE FIGURE: Careful not to become fully visible, but growing more courageous with each step.
AVERY: Locked on him, waiting.
VALENTINE: Puts Adhara's hand to her ears.
THE FIGURE: We see a little more now than we have before.
AVERY: He sees enough. Squeezes off a series of SHOTS, the muzzle flash strobing the kitchen area like a flashbulb, Adhara and Valentine flinching.
THE FIGURE: Hit. Spinning and collapsing to the ground.
AVERY: Lowers his gun. Turns to Tom.
AVERY: Watch my back.
AVERY: Careful. Takes the gun and turns the body over.
STACY: Stares up at him, choking on his last few breaths.
AVERY: Puzzled. What the hell is this guy doing here? He starts feeling around Stacy's jacket for anything useful, but is interrupted when his hand EXPLODES, accompanied by the sound of a gunshot. He screams in pain. INT. BIG SUR HOUSE. KITCHEN. NIGHT. Valentine and Adhara drop to the floor. Tom, gun raised and pointing, tries to see who shot Avery. EXT. BIG SUR HOUSE. BACK PORCH. NIGHT. Avery is turning toward his assailant, but not fast enough. A shot rings out and part of his neck disappears in a blossom of blood. Stunned, he falls on his side, gasping.
AVERY'S POV: Uncle John. Close by, huddled by the lip of the cliff. He starts to move cautiously toward Avery and Stacy. INT. BIG SUR HOUSE. KITCHEN. NIGHT. Tom squints, trying to see.
TOM: Avery's down.
VALENTINE: Avery's down.
TOM: Avery's down.
TOM'S POV: A piece of Uncle John's silhouette appears.
TOM: Fires at it. Didn't hit anything.
TOM: Fuck this.
LIVING AREA: Tom runs through and reaches the sliding doors to the back porch. A portion of the frame SPLINTERS from a gun shot as he gains access to the other side of the back porch. EXT. BIG SUR HOUSE. BACK PORCH. NIGHT. Tom is through the sliding doors and trying to make his way around to the driveway.
UNCLE JOHN: Crouched behind the opposite end of the porch, sticks his head up.
HIS POV: Tom crossing to the steps, slips on the damp wood, tries to right himself.
UNCLE JOHN: Squeezes off two shots.
TOM: Is shot in the ankle as he is about to reach the steps. He yelps in pain, tries to raise his gun.
UNCLE JOHN: Crouched down. A shot flies over his head.
TOM: Stops shooting. Tries dragging his shattered ankle to the UNCLE JOHN Looks over the edge of the porch.
UNCLE JOHN: Looks over the edge of the porch.
HIS POV: Tom turning toward the steps.
UNCLE JOHN: Fires at him.
TOM: Screams again as his elbow of his gun hand disintegrates. He slips on the first step and tumbles down, the gun bouncing beside him.
UNCLE JOHN: Sees this. Stands up to cross the back porch. Takes a step forward but is stopped by a bullet in the chest ( about the only clean shot anybody makes ). He looks down at himself.
UNCLE JOHN: He looks up to SEE:
AVERY: Near death. Gun in his good hand. He squeezes the trigger UNCLE JOHN A small black hole appears in his cheek. He blinks, begins to raise his hand to his face, and collapses.
UNCLE JOHN: A small black hole appears in his cheek. He blinks, begins to raise his hand to his face, and collapses.
AVERY: Exhales and rolls over.
TOM: Still trying to get to his feet. He gives up and just lies there, panting.
A HAND: Reaches for the gun beside Tom. Tilt up with it to reveal:
ED: He puts the gun in his jacket and slides away. INT. BIG SUR HOUSE. KITCHEN. NIGHT. Valentine and Adhara are still stuck behind the counter. Valentine sees the shadowy shape of Ed slipping behind the back porch.
VALENTINE: Decides to make a run for it, following Tom's route, away from Ed.
ADHARA: Where are you going?
LIVING ROOM: Valentine runs to the sliding door, smack into:
WILSON: Standing there. Wet. Mad. He grabs Valentine by the shirt and pushes him back into the room.
VALENTINE: Bounces off the couch and onto the floor.
WILSON: Comes toward him.
VALENTINE: Grabs a lamp off an end table and hurls it at Wilson. It careens off Wilson's arm and shatters.
WILSON: Is almost on him now.
VALENTINE: Tries to scramble away. Throwing anything he can get his hands on at.
WILSON: Who keeps coming. He grabs Valentine, pulls him up, then throws him into the television.
VALENTINE: Crashes into the TV face first and bounces to the floor.
WILSON: Goes to him, grabs him by the neck with one hand and pulls out his gun with the other. He seems about to speak when suddenly he screams instead.
WILSON: Has just stuck a kitchen knife into Wilson's back.
AAAAGGGGHHHH!: Has just stuck a kitchen knife into Wilson's back.
ADHARA: Has just stuck a kitchen knife into Wilson's back.
WILSON: Turns instinctively and whips the pistol around, smashing Adhara in the mouth.
ADHARA: Hits the ground. She won't be retaliating.
WILSON: In agony, spinning, trying to reach the knife in his back, but IT'S JUST BEYOND HIS REACH.
VALENTINE: Scrambles through the sliding glass door. EXT. BIG SUR HOUSE. BACK PORCH. NIGHT. Valentine stumbles out. Notices Avery slumped on the deck, mortally wounded. Goes to him as if concerned but actually just to take the gun. Then runs off the porch toward the STEPS that lead down to the sea.
WILSON: Comes out after him, the knife still in his back. So intent on catching Valentine he fails at first to notice Avery lying in the shadows.
AVERY: Has just barely managed to reach Stacy's pistol. Raises it weakly. Points it at Wilson.
WILSON: Seems to feel it. Turns. Locks eyes with Avery. Avery could already have shot him. But there's a momentary sense of recognition: both of them just foot soldiers for fat cats and Avery's is not worth saving.
AVERY: Lowers the gun. Nods in the direction Valentine went.
AVERY: . that way .
WILSON: Jumps down from the steps. Stops for a moment and leans his back against the railing. Bends at the knees slightly.
THE KNIFE: The handle is forced upward just enough to be reachable now.
WILSON: Grimacing, pulls the knife out and discards it.
WILSON: A dark figure. Coming into focus. Walking inexorably this Painfully rights himself. A small bone protrudes from his broken ankle. He FIRES at Wilson, gun in one hand, other hand gripping his wrist to try and steady it. Doing his best to aim. But the SHOTS miss their mark.
VALENTINE: Painfully rights himself. A small bone protrudes from his broken ankle. He FIRES at Wilson, gun in one hand, other hand gripping his wrist to try and steady it. Doing his best to aim. But the SHOTS miss their mark.
WILSON: Steadily coming.
VALENTINE: Out of bullets now. Gun CLICKING crazily on empty. He simply drops it.
WILSON: Now stands before him.
WILSON: Tell me.
VALENTINE: Tell me.
WILSON: Tell me.
VALENTINE: Tell you .
WILSON: About Jenny. Tell me about Jenny. About the deal. Whatever fucking deal you had to kill my daughter for when she found out about it, you bastard.
WILSON: Tell me. Tell me about it, you fucking She could've had the deal! I would've handed it to her if she wanted. I would have given her everything.
VALENTINE: She could've had the deal! I would've handed it to her if she wanted. I would have given her everything.
WILSON: They're locked in a kind of embrace. Sprayed by the waves crashing into the rocks. Sweating and gasping and exhausted and hurt and furious.
VALENTINE: She didn't want to share it, she wanted to stop it. To stop me. She said she'd turn me in.
WILSON: Shock of recognition on his face. At those words.
VALENTINE: She said, "You go ahead with this, I'll turn you in, Terry."
VALENTINE: She was serious. She would have done it. She had the phone in her hand. She was going to do it.
WILSON: Knows that the girl he loved . loved Valentine, too. Having heard the truth, the last vestige of revenge has vanished. He gets up and walks away. Leaving the quivering shell of Valentine behind.
WILSON: After setting the glass down, his other hand goes to the shoulder where his stab wound was no doubt only temporarily dealt with. FLASH CUTS: WILSON. At the roadside hotel, grimacing. ELAINE. Cleaning his wound. Wilson rubs his shoulder. The AMERICAN LADY in the seat beside him heard the way he said thanks to the Flight A small beat ( which he takes each time he responds ).
LADY: You're English.
WILSON: Yeah, that's right.
LADY: I can never decide what I like better. Leaving home, or coming back.
WILSON: Takes this in. FLASH CUTS: WILSON. Shaving in the mirror at his L.A. motel. He stops. WILSON. In the car leaving Valentine's house. Fingering the picture of Jenny.
WILSON: I would have preferred staying home, me.
LADY: You're a reluctant traveller, then.
WILSON: Got called out to L.A., unexpected like, to do a job of work.
LADY: You'll be looking forward to getting back, then.
WILSON: Yeah. Another little matter needs attending to soon as I return.
LADY: No rest for the wicked.
WILSON: Been away a lot.
LADY: Where else?
WILSON: Out on a oil rig. In the North Sea. Nine years.
LADY: Nine years? Is that legal?
WILSON: Well, time off for good behavior, you know. I shouldn't have even been there it was these other blokes who shoulda gone in my place. I got lumbered with the job they were responsible for. I don't mind pulling me own cart, but not someone else's, know what I mean.
LADY: But you stuck it out, anyway, all that I had to, didn't I. Nothing else for it. Then just when I'd finished my nine years my contract wallop, I had to bugger off to the States.
WILSON: I had to, didn't I. Nothing else for it. Then just when I'd finished my nine years my contract wallop, I had to bugger off to the States.
LADY: ( reacting slightly to his Sounds like you need a rest.
WILSON: Could do, yeah.
WILSON: But first I gotta give these lads a talking to, these geezers what sent me up the river, in a manner of speaking.
LADY: The ones whose burden you took upon your own shoulders.
WILSON: And he turns away, to the window. Looks at the blue sky. Sips his drink. Then, hard:
WILSON: Them next.
