PEEPER: ( whispering ) We see a young mother walk into the room outside the Peeper's window. She is wearing business attire.
SCOTTIE: Hello, Scottie. Why don't you go downstairs like a good boy and let your mother freshen up.
PEEPER: Hello, Scottie. Why don't you go downstairs like a good boy and let your mother freshen up.
SCOTTIE: Who is this?
PEEPER: Just a little birdie. A birdie who wants to see if your mother's panties match her bra.
MOTHER: Oh my G-D Scottie. Is there a man up our tree? The peeper gets nervous.
PEEPER: Tell her no. Tell her it's just a big The peeper starts flapping his arms and making bird noises. We SEE Scottie with his sling shot. The mother nods yes. He shoots it. It hits the peeper square in the head. He falls to the ground with a thud.
PEEPER'S POV: We see the tunnel turn into more of a slide now and the peeper races towards the opening which is lit by fire. He
PEEPER: Am I in hell?
GATEKEEPER: What do you think? A GIANT BIRD appears and bites the peeper's crotch area. We leave the peeper in the pit and tilt up to.
NICKY: ( embarrassed ) Your father wants to see you and your brothers in the throne room.
NICKY: Okay, but Jimmy, when the house is rockin', don't forget the knockin'!
CASSIUS: I knew it. He's finally retiring.
ADRIAN: I've been waiting on this day for ten thousand years. He throws a dart that hits one of the heads in the forehead.
HUMAN DARTBOARD: If the old man picks me to take over Hell, I'll keep the torture going twenty four seven. No breaks.
CASSIUS: If the old man picks me to take over Hell, I'll keep the torture going twenty four seven. No breaks.
ADRIAN: Well Dad says it's the breaks that make the torture. You have to let people feel a sense of relief. Cassius whips a dart which hits one of the HUMAN DARTBOARDS in the eye.
HUMAN DARTBOARD: Then again, the beauty of Dad retiring is what he says doesn't matter anymore. Cassius pulls out the dart. The eye comes with it.
ADRIAN: Then again, the beauty of Dad retiring is what he says doesn't matter anymore. Cassius pulls out the dart. The eye comes with it.
CASSIUS: I'll take that. Cassius throws the eye on the ground and stomps it. THWACK! It splatters like a grape.
HUMAN DARTBOARD: Was that really necessary? Nicky enters sheepishly.
CASSIUS: Hey, how's Daddy's little girl doing Good, thanks. Cassius snaps his fingers in Nicky's face.
NICKY: Good, thanks. Cassius snaps his fingers in Nicky's face.
CASSIUS: Hey. Hey. Hey. Wanna mind wrestle? Cassius' eyes start glowing red.
NICKY: Actually, I'll take a rain check on0 Nicky is slammed into a nearby desk as if by an invisible Got ya!
CASSIUS: Got ya!
NICKY: ( picking up his head ) Yes, you got me. Nicky's head slams back down again.
CASSIUS: Got ya, again!
NICKY: ( picking head up ) Got me for sure, yes. He grabs a lamp off the desk and cracks himself over the Got ya! Now here's the big finish. Nicky frowns as he finds his own right hand heading for his own crotch.
CASSIUS: Got ya! Now here's the big finish. Nicky frowns as he finds his own right hand heading for his own crotch.
NICKY: Oh no. Please Cassius. Nicky's hand is being possessed. It gets closer and closer until it latches on to Nicky's crotch.
DAD: What are you boys doing? Cassius releases Nicky's hand.
NICKY: Nothing, Dad. Just re-arranging the Cassius, didn't I tell you to stay out of your brother's mind?
DAD: Cassius, didn't I tell you to stay out of your brother's mind?
CASSIUS: I forgot.
DAD: Maybe this will help you remember. Dad's eyes flash red and Cassius punches himself hard in the nose, sending him back against the wall and down to the Dad gives Nicky a wink. Nicky smiles. Dad has an air of confidence and power.
NICKY: Hey, Dad, I'm almost finished laying down my monsters of metal compilation tape. I really think it's a Okay, kid, we'll listen to it later. He leads the boys to the throne area. We see outside the window the peeper staring in sexily. Dad looks, shakes his head. Just then, THE BIRD appears and attacks him. Dad closes the curtains. Nicky, Adrian and Cassius sit on little stools at the foot of his throne. Dad lights a cigarette with his finger, the tip of which glows red like a cigarette lighter and looks down at his three sons.
DAD: Okay, kid, we'll listen to it later. He leads the boys to the throne area. We see outside the window the peeper staring in sexily. Dad looks, shakes his head. Just then, THE BIRD appears and attacks him. Dad closes the curtains. Nicky, Adrian and Cassius sit on little stools at the foot of his throne. Dad lights a cigarette with his finger, the tip of which glows red like a cigarette lighter and looks down at his three sons.
DAD: Yes, Jimmy. He whispers in Dad's ear.
DAD: This was a very difficult decision, because I have three wonderful sons. I mean, Adrian, so smart, so ruthless. And Cassius, so strong, so tough. And Nicky, so.so.
NICKY: Don't worry about coming up with anything. It's cool.
DAD: Such a sweet boy. But after much thought and careful consideration, I've decided that the ruler for the next ten thousand years is going to have to They all look at Nicky.
NICKY: They all look at Nicky.
DAD: The important thing for the stability of our rule is to maintain the balance between good and evil. And I don't think any of you are ready for that responsibility yet. You need the wisdom that comes only with the passage of Dad! This is Hoyashit. Dad glares. Cassius goes FLYING BACK. One of the Human Dartboards laughs. Cassius whips a dart and hits him in the tongue. Jimmy enters and points at his watch.
CASSIUS: Dad! This is Hoyashit. Dad glares. Cassius goes FLYING BACK. One of the Human Dartboards laughs. Cassius whips a dart and hits him in the tongue. Jimmy enters and points at his watch.
DAD: Right. Right. Send him in. I'm sorry, boys. I've got to get back to work. Nicky, Cassius and Adrian start filing out. Adrian stops.
ADRIAN: You sure about this decision, Dad?
DAD: I'm telling you, pal, it's the right thing to do. HITLER ( in a French maid's outfit ), is being brought in by Jimmy. They head towards the closet. Inside the closet is a crate of pineapples. Hitler picks out a relatively small one. Dad shakes his head "no." Dad walks over to the closet. Hitler picks out a really big pineapple. Dad nods "yes." Hitler sadly hands it to Dad. Jimmy bends Hitler over and as Dad raises the fruit.
HITLER: Holy schnit!!
CASSIUS: You work your ass off for ten thousand years, hurting people, helping others hurt people, then you get a decision like that.
ADRIAN: And he's dead serious.
CASSIUS: It's just such a slap in the face. Adrian turns to the Monster.
ADRIAN: Um, excuse me, we're having a private conversation here.
CASSIUS: Yeah, get out of here! Beat it! Cassius insanely snaps his fingers in the Monster's face. The Monster shrugs and walks off.
ADRIAN: Twenty-thousand years ago, Grandpa Lucifer said, "It is better to rule in hell than serve in heaven." Well, I'm getting tired of serving in Hell. We need a place where we can rule. Cassius throws a rock at the Monster. He yelps, then turns around, motioning like he's thinking about coming back. Cassius sees this and gets enraged.
CASSIUS: Oh you wanna be a big man? Bring it on!! Let's see what you got! The Monster, upon further reflection, throws his hands up in an "aw phooey" gesture and continues walking away.
ADRIAN: ( to Cassius ) Could you concentrate for five seconds?
CASSIUS: I am concentrating. Where can we rule?
ADRIAN: What do you think about.Earth? Cassius seems to think this isn't a bad idea.
CASSIUS: You saying we go up there and kill Eventually, Cassius. But first we corrupt as many as we can so that when we do destroy them.
ADRIAN: Eventually, Cassius. But first we corrupt as many as we can so that when we do destroy them.
CASSIUS: .their damned souls will be ours.
ADRIAN: It's our time, brother. The two look at each other. They start running toward the fire wall. Knocking souls out of their way.
GATEKEEPER: Hey, what are you doing?!? They get closer to the fire.
DAD: Now that was an experience. "You are only coming through in waves." That line blows my mind every time.
NICKY: I don't care what kind of mood you're in at the start of that song. When it's over, that mood has been altered. Wow. Great shit. What's next?
DAD: I don't care what kind of mood you're in at the start of that song. When it's over, that mood has been altered. Wow. Great shit. What's next?
NICKY: Well, I thought that after messing with your head, I'd give you a little kick in the keester. Hits the tape player. "Enter Sandman" blasts.
DAD: Who is this, Metal-lick-a?
NICKY: Metallica, Dad. Come on.
DAD: I was just playing with you. Dad and Nicky dance to the song.
DAD: I'm sorry. After careful consideration, I regretfully have to decline.
DAN: C'mon, man, I'm just asking for one Superbowl ring.
DAD: In exchange for eternal damnation of your soul? You're too nice of a guy for me to want to do that to you, Mr. You did it for Namath.
DAN: You did it for Namath.
DAD: Yeah, but Joe was coming here anyways. Just go back to Earth and enjoy your records and the Hall of Fame and the beautiful family and all that.
DAN: This is bullshit, man. I'm gonna win the Superbowl this year, with or without you!
DAD: Now you're talking. Dan exits.
NICKY: You're a good devil, Dad.
DAD: And I also happen to be a Jets fan. Nicky and Dad share a laugh which is interrupted by faint sirens. The Gatekeeper enters in a hurry and falls to his Your highness, Cassius and Adrian have escaped from hell. They went through the fire, and they broke it. I think they took the New York tunnel. I tried to stop them, but they overpowered me, Oh, boy. Oh boy. Calm down. Get off your knees. The Gatekeeper stands up.
GATEKEEPER: Your highness, Cassius and Adrian have escaped from hell. They went through the fire, and they broke it. I think they took the New York tunnel. I tried to stop them, but they overpowered me, Oh, boy. Oh boy. Calm down. Get off your knees. The Gatekeeper stands up.
DAD: Oh, boy. Oh boy. Calm down. Get off your knees. The Gatekeeper stands up.
GATEKEEPER: Thanks for being so understanding, your worship. You're the man. You've always been the man. Dad's EYES GLOW RED as the Gatekeeper stands up. Two huge boobs grow out of either side of the Gatekeeper's head. We only see them from the front for a second. From behind the gatekeeper, we see the boobs but not the nipples as he talks to Nicky.
NICKY: Coulda been much worse.
GATEKEEPER: That's what I'm thinkin'. Dad is staring off. He looks shaken.
DAD: This is bad, Nicky.
NICKY: How bad?
DAD: I'm gonna die, Nicky. If the gates are broken, no new souls can get in, which means I'll start to deteriorate into GRANDPA LUCIFER enters.
LUCIFER: What's with all the whoo-whoo noises?
DAD: Everything's fine, pop.
LUCIFER: Last time you said that the renaissance Please, pop, just go back to your room.
DAD: Please, pop, just go back to your room.
LUCIFER: ( regarding gateskeeper ) Can I take him with me and have sex with his head?
DAD: Sure, pop. Whatever you want. The gatekeeper walks towards Lucifer.
GATEKEEPER: Oh, this is gonna be a whole new lifestyle for me, isn't it.
NICKY: We gotta get this bad boy burning again. To do that Cassius and Adrian have to come back through the other way.
DAD: To do that Cassius and Adrian have to come back through the other way.
NICKY: So go get 'em, Dad!
DAD: I'm too weak. The process has already Dad holds up his hand. His pink is hanging by a thread. We see the bigfoot MONSTER grunt disgusted by the sight.
NICKY: So go get 'em, Jimmy!
NICKY: You're not saying it's up to me? The MONSTER puts his hands over his eyes shaking his head as if to say, "oh no."
DAD: Nicky, the worst thing that could happen on Earth is you get killed, in which case, boom, you end up back here.
NICKY: Are you telling me I have to go to Earth and kill my brothers?
DAD: Here. Get them drunk from this. One sip and they'll be trapped inside. Once you've got both of them, you bring the flask back through the gate. Dad's pinky is hanging. Jimmy pulls it off and examines it. The Monster gags.
NICKY: No. This can't be happening.
DAD: Son, just do your best. Nicky looks teary eyed. The moment is broken by the Monster, who runs in and pushes Nicky through the fire. Nicky goes through the solid fire wall. PAUSE. The Monster taps his own wrist and looks at Dad as if to say, "gotta get a move on."
NICKY: Okay. Earth. The Blue Marble. This doesn't look too bad. Nicky sees a fast approaching light, furrows his brow and
WHAMMM!: EXT. GATES OF HELL - MOMENTS LATER Nicky comes shooting through the solid fire wall and lands in the coal pit. His Dad limps back to him.
NICKY: I got hit by a big light that was attached to a lot of metal.
DAD: That's a train, son. Don't stand in front of them.
NICKY: Well, I guess I'm going to have to take a mulligan on this one.
DAD: Please, Nicky, get back up there. Try to hurry. Nicky climbs up and heads back toward the fire wall.
NICKY: I'm Nicky. Beefy drops the sign from his mouth.
BEEFY: ( voice of Sandy Wernick ) Hey, terrific!! Now get off the track and come with me, shitstains.
BEEFY: My name's Beefy. I'm an old friend of your father's. He's asked me to help you out.
NICKY: I just need to find my brothers and be on my way, Beefy.
BEEFY: It's not gonna be easy. Your brothers can possess people. So they probably won't look like themselves. You have to be suspicious of everyone. Nicky looks at Beefy warily for a beat.
NICKY: Okay, "bro," this jig is up. Just get in the bottle. Just slide right on in there.
BEEFY: It's not me, moron.
NICKY: Oh. Sorry.
PREACHER: Oh how the Lord loves you. All his He thanks you for your kindness. God bless, Ma'am. The Lord loves you. The Lord loves you. We see Nicky and Beefy walk up from behind. The PREACHER The Lord does not love you. I sense.pure evil. You make the Lord very nervous. I'm burning.ahhh. The Devil walks among us! He runs off screaming, wildly bumping into people.
BEEFY: Makin' friends already.
NICKY: ( shivering a little ) It's freezing up here, Beefy.
BEEFY: You're on Earth now, kid. Gonna have the same physical needs and limitations a human has. We'll stop by K-mart. Get you some warm clothes.
NICKY: I also have this odd pain in my mid section. Kind of a hollow feeling.
BEEFY: That pain is hunger.
NICKY: So far, so good. Now what?
BEEFY: Put it in your mouth. Nicky puts it in his mouth. Holds it there.
NICKY: Hey.Popeye's chicken is ass kickin'!
BEEFY: It sure is. Now eat it up. You're gonna need your energy.
NICKY: I got energy up the ying-ying. Let's get cracking! NICKY stands with a drumstick and jogs off the curb right into the path of a moving bus.
GATEKEEPER: That's a pretty brassiere.
NICKY: That's a pretty brassiere.
GATEKEEPER: Could you maybe not tell anyone about You got it. Could you maybe not tell anyone about this?
NICKY: Could you maybe not tell anyone about You got it. Could you maybe not tell anyone about this?
GATEKEEPER: You got it. Could you maybe not tell anyone about this?
NICKY: You got it. Nicky turns and walks toward the firewall. As soon as his back is turned, the monster pantomimes to the Gatekeeper, "I love your boobs." The Gatekeeper gives a flirtatious laugh ( we don't see him morph back through the wall here. ).
NICKY: From now on. I'm just going to avoid all moving metal objects.
BEEFY: Great. Now your father gave me some deposit money for a nice pad on the Upper East Side. But I misplaced it.
BEEFY: So I found this other joint for you. But you're gonna have a roommate.
TODD: ( on phone ) I know exactly how you feel. The night Reagan was elected, I said to my mother, "Is this man going to blow up the world, Mommy?" Then we both cried for like an ( knock at the door ) Somebody's here. Call you later. Todd gets up and opens the door. It's Nicky, with Beefy by his side. Nicky is nervous, and his speech sounds practiced.
NICKY: Hello, friend, my name is Nicky. I understand you're seeking a roommate, as per your advertisement in the Village Voice. Would it be possible for me to fill the slot?
TODD: Uh, don't you want to know what the rent Nicky looks down at Beefy. Beefy looks up at Nicky. Both nod imperceptibly.
NICKY: Yes. What is rent?
TODD: Eight-hundred, split down the middle. Tuesdays and Thursdays I rehearse with my scene partner so the living room will be off limits.
NICKY: Off limits.
TODD: Right. And as far as household items: we can share the soap, but we'll split the cost 60/40. Cause the person who physically goes out and buys the soap shouldn't have to pay as much as the other guy. Aren't you boiling in that outfit?
NICKY: It's like eighty degrees in this hallway. You from the South?
TODD: It's like eighty degrees in this hallway. You from the South?
NICKY: Yeah. The deep South. Nicky laughs a little too hard.
TODD: Why is that funny?
NICKY: I don't know.
TODD: And sorry, man, but no dogs allowed. Todd turns and goes into the apartment.
BEEFY: You'll be alright. Go on. Big day tomorrow. Don't forget to do that sleep thing I told you about.
NICKY: Got ya. Is it okay if I do the sleep thing?
TODD: Yeah, your bedroom is right over there. The door closes. Beefy looks down at the welcome mat. It reads: I "heart" METHOD ACTING. Beefy raises his leg over INT. NICKY'S ROOM Nicky is sleeping on top of the hissing radiator, fully clothed. When he inhales through his nose, we hear that familiar snoring/snorting sound. But when he exhales, we hear disturbing "speaking-in-tongues", Exorcist-style voices. SLOW PAN across the room to the doorway where Todd stands, looking concerned.
CARDINAL: In today's gospel, the Lord tells us who we are to live if we wish to attain the splendor of Heaven. or something like that. Jesus sure says a lot of stuff in the Bible. Moses this. Moses that. Abraham hit me with a whiffle ball bat. The crowd stares dumbfounded. We see that the Cardinal is standing on a steaming hot pizza which is still in the box with the top open.
CARDINAL: Ma'am, I know your son, and believe me, he was better off on drugs. He's a bore. At least when he was smoking hashish, he made me laugh occasionally. A YOUNG MAN and his PREGNANT WIFE stand up.
YOUNG MAN: After we tried for many years, the Lord finally helped my wife conceive a baby.
CARDINAL: No, your best friend Fitzie helped your wife conceive a baby. He helped her conceive it all night long. Fitzie, who's sitting on the other side of the Wife, starts to "raise the roof." Then thinks better of it. The Cardinal points to a well-dressed man in the front pew.
MAYOR: ( standing ) Well, I wish I could think of something, Cardinal, but to be honest with you, I can't. Kind of makes you wonder if there even is a Lord. If there is any ultimate punishment for our so-called "sins." Maybe we should all just have fun and do whatever the hell we want. A hubbub is raised by the crowd. Fitzie raises the roof again, this time energetically.
CARDINAL: Amen to that. Let the sin begin! The hubbub grows to a roar. Several PEOPLE start fighting over the money in the collection plate. The Cardinal smiles knowingly at the Mayor. We hear the Cardinal's thoughts - in Adrian's voice.
ON MAYOR: He's smirking. WE HEAR his telepathic response.
NICKY: This is intense! And it happens every day? Sometimes twice? I gotta tip my hat to you people!
BEEFY: Look, it's okay for me to shit the street. But you gotta use a toilet.
NICKY: ( pulling up pants ) Okay, just point me in the right direction next time.
BEEFY: Come on, there's like ten million people in this city and the clock is ticking.
NICKY: Well, let's rock and roll. Nicky looks at the next person walking by. It's a CHINESE DELIVERY GUY on a bicycle. Nicky clotheslines him, taking him off the bike in a sleeperhold/headlock.
NICKY: just get in the flask! The Chinese Guy breaks loose, gives Nicky a roundhouse kick to the head and runs away. Nicky gets up.
GATEKEEPER: The Monster laughs.
NICKY: The Monster laughs.
GATEKEEPER: ( to Monster ) You like that? You think that's funny? The Gatekeeper swirls his tassels.
NICKY: All that running and chasing is making the sleep thing want to come early.
BEEFY: I think we have to work on narrowing down our list of suspects. Now I'm going to go check in with some of my contacts uptown. Beefy hears Nicky's strange terrible snores. He's asleep. Beefy sighs.
PETER: Sounds like our devil dance actually worked this time.
JOHN: 'Bout time. Nicky snores. It sounds like "I will eat your hearts." The worried people run away. Nicky snores. Children on the Carousel, going real fast, upset. Nicky snores. Peter and John walk over to a position near Nicky's bench.
PETER: Mr. Sleepyhead must have some major ties to the dark side. A sleazy STREET VENDOR shuffles over towards Nicky. He eyes the flask which is half hanging out of Nicky's pocket.
JOHN: What's with that guy?
PETER: Gotta be one of his disciples or Suddenly, the Vendor grabs the flask ( and Nicky's half-eaten drumstick ) and runs off.
JOHN: Yo, man, I think that devil guy just got ripped off.
PETER: Should we wake him up?
JOHN: Yeah. You do it. Peter gets up and shakes Nicky who comes to with a loud
PETER: Rise and shine, devil guy. Some dude just stole your shit. Nicky feels for the flask. It's gone.
NICKY: Oh nooooo.. Fire shoots out of Nicky's mouth.
JOHN: That way. Nicky is about to run off. Looks at John's shirt.
NICKY: Iron Maiden live double disc is simply He runs off.
PETER: Did you check out the dragon mouth?
JOHN: The Dark Prince is here.
NICKY: STREET VENDOR See something you like, my man?
STREET VENDOR: See something you like, my man?
NICKY: Yes. I would like my flask back. The street vendor stands, very angry.
STREET VENDOR: You callin' me a thief, my man?
NICKY: No, I'm just calling you. a guy who has my flask.
STREET VENDOR: And if that is your so-called "flask," how would I have it unless I was, in fact, a thief?
NICKY: ( not sure what the answer is ) I don't know? A YUPPIE JOGGER is checking out the flask.
MAN: Yeah, how much for the silver flask Well, that's a very special item. The cap itself is one hundred percent plappium. It's a value is over three thousand dollars.
STREET VENDOR: Well, that's a very special item. The cap itself is one hundred percent plappium. It's a value is over three thousand dollars.
MAN: Really. Where's it from?
NICKY: It was handcrafted in hell by Satan himself and is only to be used for the capture and containment of my blood brothers so that the firefall of Hades will burn brightly once again.
MAN: Really. I think we'll let you keep it He walks away.
STREET VENDOR: Okay, now you gone and done it. You done messed with my business bitch!
NICKY: Sir, I would prefer if you didn't raise your voice. It's making my muscles We see that Nicky's eyes are starting to glow red.
STREET VENDOR: Oh, you gonna go all crazy eyes on me? I'll show you some crazy eyes. Let's get busy. The vendor makes an even crazier face at Nicky and starts swinging his fists around. Nearby, VALERIE, an unsure, sweetly unstylish young woman, is selling clothes off a spread out blanket. She notices what's going on. Nicky's eyes widen in panic. Just then, Valerie steps in.
VALERIE: Excuse me, does that flask belong to this man?
STREET VENDOR: ( frustrated ) Now you callin' me a thief? Damn.
VALERIE: Look, I know you come out here and sell stolen stuff all the time. But today, the guy you stole from just happened to walk by and bust you. So why don't you admit today's not your day and give him his flask back?
STREET VENDOR: Or what're you gonna do about it? Ugly me to death?
VALERIE: No, but maybe that cop over there might have something to say. Valerie points to a cop across the street. The Street Vendor ponders this for a second, then.
STREET VENDOR: Aw, take your dumb-ass canteen, goofy. And you, take your raggedy-ass clothes and find a new corner. Before I show you what real crazy is. The vendor does crazy eyes again.
VALERIE: Fine. I will. Nicky picks up the flask and the drumstick.
NICKY: Hey, mister. I'll be seeing you in a few years. Valerie gathers her blanket, starts walking away and Nicky follows her.
VALERIE: That's okay. I get messed with all the time and when I saw him doing that to you I just lost it. I hate when people take advantage of tourists. It ruins it for the rest of us.
NICKY: You think I'm a tourist?
VALERIE: I'm sorry. I just assumed. Your accent maybe. Where are you from?
NICKY: The South.
VALERIE: Yeah. Deep south. She laughs along with him, not sure why.
NICKY: Yeah. Deep south. She laughs along with him, not sure why.
VALERIE: Why are you laughing?
NICKY: I don't know, but I like it. Say. Your glasses are nice. They make your eyes look sparkly and big. It's fun to look at them.
VALERIE: My dad's an optometrist.
NICKY: My dad's in hell, and he's falling I'm sorry. It's really tough when your parents get older.
VALERIE: I'm sorry. It's really tough when your parents get older.
NICKY: If I don't save him, I don't know what I'm gonna do.
VALERIE: Well, I'm sure a nice southern boy like you will figure something out. Nicky is experiencing new sensations as he looks at her. He hands her the half-eaten drumstick.
NICKY: Here, have a Popeye's. This drumstick ain't for beatin' it's for eatin'.
VALERIE: That's alright. I already ate lunch. I actually wouldn't mind getting a Gelati.
NICKY: Could I come with you to getting a If you want to.
VALERIE: If you want to.
NICKY: Want to? A million angry octopus people couldn't hold me back!
VALERIE: "Octopus people?"
NICKY: Uh, it's a deep south expression. Nicky laughs.
NICKY: It's freezing my hands.
VALERIE: It's not that cold. Here, let me wrap Valerie takes a few napkins and wraps it for Nicky. Just then the PREACHER walks by. He quickly turns his head, sensing Nicky.
PREACHER: Why do you taunt me with your darkness?! Your evil is stinking up our streets! We're all gonna die! He takes off running right into a lamp post.
VALERIE: This town is really going to hell So what part of the city do you live in?
NICKY: I have an apartment. I don't remember exactly where. My dog knows, though.
VALERIE: ( laughs ) You have a dog? What kind?
NICKY: I'm not sure. I'd ask him, but he's uptown talking to his contacts.
BEEFY: Remember, it's not the size of the boat, it's the motion of the ocean.
GIRL DOG: Just finish.
VALERIE: I'd love to have a dog. But I go to school full time. It wouldn't be fair to the dog.
NICKY: Parsons School of Design. I knew growing up I wasn't much to look at, so I put my energy into making things that are pretty.
VALERIE: Parsons School of Design. I knew growing up I wasn't much to look at, so I put my energy into making things that are pretty.
NICKY: What's that pleasant smell coming from, your skin?
VALERIE: My perfume? He takes her wrist to his nose. He stares at it, licks it.
NICKY: Valerie, it feels like there's a bunch of butterflies flapping around in my stomach. Is that normal?
VALERIE: Sometimes, sure.
NICKY: Good. I was concerned.
GATEKEEPER: Doesn't sound very good behind there. I hope Nicky's kicking some ass on Earth. The Monster is smoking a cigarette and wearing a leather biker's hat. He nods along in agreement.
LUCIFER: You know, I was the one who created I know, your wickedness.
GATEKEEPER: I know, your wickedness.
LUCIFER: I started slow, though. For years, I was just giving people hot foots. Actually, you can give all the credit for Hell to my first wife; she was the inspiration. She was an ugly one, too. One day, she asked me if I wanted super sex. I said I'll take the soup. The Monster laughs really hard.
GATEKEEPER: It's Stanley, sir.
LUCIFER: Nothing. No mountains. No castles. Looked like a giant parking lot. It wasn't even called Hell.
GATEKEEPER: What was it called, sir.
LUCIFER: That's nice, Grandpa. Why don't you just enjoy the fishing?
GATEKEEPER: That's nice, Grandpa. Why don't you just enjoy the fishing?
LUCIFER: I can't enjoy anything. I go fishing. I catch nothing. I go to orgies, I catch everything. We hear the Monster laughing again as we PAN DOWN Grandpa's fishing line to:
PEEPER: I deserve this!
KID: I just stole twenty-five bucks off the How many beers did you have?
KID #2: How many beers did you have?
KID: I had five! I'm so wasted. They both high five, throw up and fall. PAN over to ADRIAN sitting on top of a mailbox laughing as he sips from a bottle of PEPPERMINT SCHNAPPS.
ADRIAN: When an adult goes to Hell, that's terrific. But when a child goes. that's why I'm in this business. Adrian looks across the street and sees Nicky walking with Valerie. He's shocked. Valerie is holding up a pair of drawstring pants from her So you're saying, make all pants with a drawstring, then heavier set gals don't have to feel humiliated by telling their waist size in front of the whole store?
NICKY: So you're saying, make all pants with a drawstring, then heavier set gals don't have to feel humiliated by telling their waist size in front of the whole store?
VALERIE: Basically, yeah.
NICKY: Wow. Maybe you should make drawstring socks for gals with fat ankles. Valerie laughs.
VALERIE: You know what's nice about you? You just seem happy being yourself. You don't try to act cool.
NICKY: Thanks much. You know what's nice about you, Valerie?
VALERIE: Up the street, Adrian's eyes redden. NICKY looks like he's been stunned by something.
NICKY: Your juicy, heart-shaped ass.
VALERIE: What was that?
NICKY: ( shocked and confused ) I.I don't know why I just said that. I meant to say that.
VALERIE: You're a jerk. She turns and walks away. Nicky looks over and sees Adrian. His inner voice speaks to him.
ADRIAN!: ADRIAN ( O.S. ) You shouldn't have come here.
VALERIE: What the hell's your problem? She runs away crying. Nicky turns to Adrian who's still across the street.
PETER: Check this out. The number of the They laugh and hi-five.
DAN RATHER: Reverberations from Arch-Decon Donnelly's shocking speech are still being felt throughout the city. Today, some disgruntled cast members of the play CATS broke the fourth wall in a most hostile manner.
VIDEO FOOTAGE: A few CATS are down in the aisle physically pushing around shocked audience members.
DAN RATHER: .But even that does not come close to what happened today on Live with Regis and Kathy Lee.
VIDEO FOOTAGE: The set of Regis and Kathy Lee.
REGIS: So I was driving to work today, and some bozo in a Cadillac cut me off.
KATHY LEE: Oh, that's terrible, Reege.
REGIS: So I followed him.
KATHY LEE: You followed him?
REGIS: I followed him all the way downtown, and when he gets out of the car, I reach under my seat and pull out an aluminum You keep a bat under your seat?
KATHY LEE: You keep a bat under your seat?
REGIS: Recently, yes! So I run up behind this guy, and start bashing his brains in with this bat, and it made me feel happy! Did you ever see THE
UNTOUCHABLES?: KATHY LEE Yes, great movie.
KATHY LEE: Yes, great movie.
REGIS: I was DeNiro! The blue haired lady AUDIENCE is crying. The TV turns off. We PULL BACK to see that we are in.
BEEFY: Your brothers are upsetting the balance of good and evil.
NICKY: What can I do about it?
BEEFY: You can't do jack shit. unless you learn your evil powers.
NICKY: Nobody's as evil as my brothers. Those dudes put the wick in wicked.
BEEFY: Go get a soda out of the fridge.
NICKY: But those are my roommate's sodas.
BEEFY: ( high-pitched mocking ) "But those are my roommate's sodas." Does that sound like a statement the son of the devil would make? Nicky, ashamed, gets a Coke out of the fridge and places it on the coffee table. He and Beefy sit on the couch and stare at the Coke.
NICKY: Release the evil?
BEEFY: I'm just saying, there's wickedness in you. I can tell from your snores. Nicky stares at the can.
TODD: What are you doing? Todd is standing in the doorway. Beefy runs to the fire I know it's your living room night. But can I finish watching the Globetrotters' game out here? To me it's classic Comedia Dellarte.
ON TV: INT. BASKETBALL ARENA - DAY A Globetrotter makes a fancy pass to another player, who makes a fancy pass to CORNROWS who starts doing some VINTAGE GLOBETROTTERS FANCY DRIBBLING. The REF blows the whistle and makes the travelling signal.
BILL WALTON: What an odd game, folks. The powerhouse 85-0 Harlem Globetrotters, who normal run circles around the 0-85 Nationals, seem to be struggling to find their groove in front of their hometown fans. A Globetrotter makes a fancy pass to another player, who makes a fancy pass to CORNROWS who starts doing some VINTAGE GLOBETROTTERS FANCY DRIBBLING. The REF blows the whistle and makes the travelling signal.
REF: He's walking, get him a bus!
BILL WALTON: Oh, another awful call. There is no way that was travelling. Ref takes ball from Cornrows, who gets in the Ref's face.
CORNROWS: What's with all these crazy calls? You gotta watch that shit, we haven't lost a game in 53 years.
REF: Technical foul! Ref snaps just like Cassius in the players' face.
NICKY: That guy in the striped shirt snaps his fingers like someone I know.
ON TV: The ref mind wrestles four globetrotters to simultaneously slam their heads on the scorers table again and again.
TODD: A black guy?
NICKY: If it's Cassius, yes. Nicky races for the door.
GLOBETROTTER FAN: Get your head out your ass, ref! The kids came to see the Globetrotters win.
REF: Oh, so you wanna lip off to me? Unsportsmanlike conduct on the big mouth in the Globetrotter's shirt. Take ten points off for the Globetrotters. The Globetrotter's score on the board goes from 46 to 36.
ON STANDS: The KIDS are crying.
ON COURT: The halftime buzzer sounds. The Globetrotters walk off the court. The crowd BOOS.
BILL WALTON: In all my years of basketball, I was never so happy to hear a halftime buzzer. Folk, I'm afraid if the second half doesn't get any better, I expect a full scale riot. A spotlight points to an announcer at mid-court.
COURT ANNOUNCER: It's time for the Globetrotter's halftime half-court heave throw, where one lucky fan will have a shot at ten thousand dollars! A brick lands at the announcer's feet.
MIGUEL: I ain't goin' out there and taking the shot. These people have gone crazy.
NICKY: I'll take the shot.
PETER: Look who's back from the dead.
JOHN: Six, six, six, pick up sticks. They high-five. The only happy fans in their section.
TODD: What's Nicky doing down there?
BEEFY: Trying to capture his brother in a flask and preserve the balance of good and evil on Earth. Todd looks over, suspicious.
TODD: Did you just talk?
BEEFY: INT. BASKETBALL ARENA - CONTINUOUS The court announcer covers his mic and whispers to Nicky.
COURT ANNOUNCER: You better win these people some free pizza. Looks like they're about to start killing each other.
STANDS: A BUSINESSMAN pushes a very old SODA GUY down an aisle of The court announcer hands Nicky the ball. He looks at it.
COURTSIDE: The court announcer hands Nicky the ball. He looks at it.
NICKY: Release the evil. His eyes get red. Staring at the ball, it explodes.
BILL WALTON: I think that ball just blew up. And yes, my hair is aflame.
NICKY: ( turning to sideline ) Could I get another ball? The court announcer throws out another ball. Nicky stares at it again with red eyes.
REF: Get that crap outta here! The crowd BOOS! Nicky and the ref stare at each other.
STANDS: We see FITZIE, sitting between TWO PREGNANT WOMEN, raising the roof.
COURTSIDE: As the crowd BOOS, Nicky runs over and grabs the microphone.
NICKY: Listen up, New York. Your souls are in great danger. Nicky gets hit by a hot dog.
BILL WALTON: I think it's safe to say we're all rooting for this bizarre and hideous looking man. Bill Walton reaches over to an old lady sitting near him. He takes off her wig, leaving behind her bald head, and puts her wig on his head in order to cover his burnt hair. The crowd starts YELLING.
CROWD: Nicky! Nicky! Nicky!
STANDS: John and Peter are yelling the loudest.
COURTSIDE: The ref walks to half-court and hands Nicky the ball.
NICKY: You know, Dad got very sick when you I heard. I'm glad he's dying. It's my turn now. Nicky's eyes get red, he starts dribbling.
REF: I heard. I'm glad he's dying. It's my turn now. Nicky's eyes get red, he starts dribbling.
BEEFY: Take him to the hole, Nicky. I mean, woof! Woof! Todd looks at Beefy, terrified.
SHOT CLOCK: It reads: 666. Popcorn and sodas EXPLODE. Cornrow's cornrows POP open into a GIANT AFRO.
NICKY: Never doubt my skills.
CORNROWS: Damn, I gotta learn how to do that.
REF: That's nuts. When'd you learn that Sorry, Cassius. Maybe it was the super devil juice Dad gave me. HE thought I might need it for just such an occasion.
NICKY: Sorry, Cassius. Maybe it was the super devil juice Dad gave me. HE thought I might need it for just such an occasion.
REGIS: Super devil juice? Give it over. Let's go best two out of three.
NICKY: ( pulls out the flask ) No. No way. Dad said it was only for The ref rips the flask from Nicky and drinks. Cassius screams like bloody hell as he is sucked out of the ref's mouth and into the bottle. WHOOSH! The ref slumps to the floor.
STANDS: Still quiet until John and Peter rush to Nicky and bow.
COURTSIDE: Nicky peers into the flask.
TODD: So your father's the devil, you're a talking dog sent from Hell, and you guys are who?
PEEPER: Just a couple of big fans of Nicky and the work his Dad does.
JOHN: By the way, Nicky. Check this out. He spins his Black Sabbath backwards.
NICKY: Absolutely nothing. The Blizzard always came straight with his messages. But wrap your minds around this one. Nicky gets up and we see his is sitting on a hibachi. He pus on a James Taylor album and plays it backwards.
VOICE: I command you in the name of the Lucifer to spread the blood of the innocent. John and Peter look at each other, shocked.
JOHN: No wonder your uncle's so weird.
TODD: I gotta say this cake tastes a little Oh, I dumped a fat sack of reefer in the mix. Tried to spice up the bash. Nicky takes a big bite of cake.
PETER: Oh, I dumped a fat sack of reefer in the mix. Tried to spice up the bash. Nicky takes a big bite of cake.
NICKY: What's reefer?
JOHN: Come on. One more time.
NICKY: Not again, fellas. It kind of hurts.
PETER: Please. You got to.
NICKY: ( resigned ) All right. Nicky loosens up his neck and makes his head go around 360 degrees. Everyone cracks up, high fives. Even Todd LAUGHS. PAN OVER to Beefy, who has bloodshot eyes.
BEEFY: I used to get baked like this with my first girlfriend, Heather. We'd get so stoned she would forget I was a dog.
JOHN: She was human?
BEEFY: Actually, she was a sewer rat. Man, that pissed my parents off.
JOHN: I dated a Japanese girl once. My parents disapproved. Not cause she's Japanese, but cause she was only I'm only fifteen.thousand years old. Everyone cracks up.
NICKY: I'm only fifteen.thousand years old. Everyone cracks up.
TODD: I was in love one time but she said I wasn't financially reliable enough. And she needed that.
JOHN: By she, do you mean he?
TODD: ( laughs )
BEEFY: ( laughs )
PETER: How you feelin' over there, Satan Abdul A little strange. I can't stop thinking about this girl, Valerie.
NICKY: A little strange. I can't stop thinking about this girl, Valerie.
TODD: Why? Did she hurt you? Do you miss her? Need a shoulder to cry on?
JOHN: Easy, Liberace.
TODD: Oh, would you grow up.
NICKY: We had the greatest afternoon of my life until Adrian made me tell her she had a heart-shaped ass.
BEEFY: Maybe you love her. But what do I know? I'm baked out of my mind.
PETER: Me, too. We're gonna get going.
TODD: You guys want to stay? I have a futon in my bedroom.
JOHN: That's a big pass, Elton John.
PETER: We're going to see Ozzy play at the Meadowlands, right now. Wanna come, No thanks. I'm afraid I wouldn't be able to give Ozzy the focus he deserves.
NICKY: No thanks. I'm afraid I wouldn't be able to give Ozzy the focus he deserves.
JOHN: Whoa, that chick must be the real deal, then. Later on.
NICKY: See ya, fellas. They leave.
TODD: That is the most frightening thing I have ever seen. Nicky stands and moves to the window. He looks out longingly over the sleeping city. achingly. RACK FOCUS behind him, we see Todd nodding encouragingly in the reflection.
NICKY: Todd. Which way to the Parson's School of Design?
NICKY: ( he sniffs ) Nicky goes to the fire escape and starts to climb. His nose leads him. He reaches the window, sniffing heavily.
STUDENT: You smell like coconuts.
NICKY: You smell like coconuts.
STUDENT: It's "Comptoir Sud Pacific." Makes me feel like a hula girl. Which is kinda what I'm going for. Wanna come in?
NICKY: No thanks. I'm looking for a girl named Valerie who also smells like coconuts.
STUDENT: Valerie Doran? Two floors up, one window over.
NICKY: Thanks, much. Good luck with the genital tucking.
STUDENT: I don't need luck. I'm good. Nicky floats away. A few seconds later, he floats back, holding up the flask.
NICKY: Nicky nods and floats off.
STUDENT: Nicky nods and floats off.
ON NICKY: He's so enraptured he leans forward trying to kiss her. His head bumps the window. She turns, startled. She sees the beaming Nicky.
NICKY: Nicky? Oh my G-d. Stay right there. Pause. Valerie opens the window and sprays a can of mace right in Nicky's face.
VALERIE: Nicky? Oh my G-d. Stay right there. Pause. Valerie opens the window and sprays a can of mace right in Nicky's face.
NICKY: Oh that stings! My eyes are on fire! Nicky stands up and stumbles around.
VALERIE: What were you thinking coming here?
NICKY: I'm not sure, but it didn't involve getting blinded with poison. He bounces off the front rail, stumbles backward and goes flying over the back rail.
VALERIE: Oh my G-d, I'm so sorry! Suddenly he stops. Suspended above ground. Valerie doesn't hear the expected thud.
NICKY: Are you dead?
VALERIE: Are you dead?
NICKY: What are you doing?
VALERIE: What are you doing?
NICKY: I think I'm floating.
VALERIE: Why would you be floating?
NICKY: I don't know. Maybe it's because of your sweet voice.
VALERIE: Am I supposed to not be freaked out right now? Because I am. He's floating up. He slows down.
NICKY: I can't see you but I can smell you. And you make me feel alive in a way I've never felt before. CUT TO REVEAL he's floating outside the student's window. The student's dripping candle wax on his belly.
STUDENT: You got the wrong window again, man.
NICKY: Oh. Sorry, Andrew. Valerie? Nicky resumes floating up.
VALERIE: I'm over here, Nicky! To the left. Nicky is parallel with her. He hovers in front of her, eyes still watering. She punches Nicky in the face, and he flies back ten feet.
NICKY: That wasn't me. I was being possessed by my brother, Adrian. He's the one who call you a gross pig.
VALERIE: What do you mean, "possessed?"
NICKY: Remember when I told you my Dad was in Well, that's because he's the Devil. And he wants to keep his throne for another ten-thousand years. Which is fine with me, but not with my brothers, so they broke out of Hell, causing my . "The Devil?".
VALERIE: Well, that's because he's the Devil. And he wants to keep his throne for another ten-thousand years. Which is fine with me, but not with my brothers, so they broke out of Hell, causing my . "The Devil?".
NICKY: Well, that's because he's the Devil. And he wants to keep his throne for another ten-thousand years. Which is fine with me, but not with my brothers, so they broke out of Hell, causing my . "The Devil?".
VALERIE: . "The Devil?".
NICKY: .to decompose. And I love my Dad very much. So I came to Earth to save him but then crazy eyes stole my flask and I met you and.well, my dog tells me I just might be in love with you. His vision is clearing and he can start to see her. She is totally in shock but still here.
VALERIE: Okay, now I get that "deep south" joke. Nicky laughs. Valerie joins in.
NICKY: You gotta believe me. You gotta believe in the butterflies.
VALERIE: Okay, I do. Get back up here. He floats up to her holding out his hand. Nervously, she takes his hand and suddenly she is lifting off and they are EXT. MANHATTAN - SKY - NIGHT They fly past the EMPIRE STATE BUILDING.
VALERIE: This is amazing. They soar past some more buildings.
PREACHER: The hellbeast is above us. He's invading our skies! We're all gonna die! We're all gonna die!
VALERIE: He's kind of ruining the mood.
NICKY: Let me take care of that.
PREACHER: We're all gonna die! A fire hydrant cap turns and comes off. A powerful blast of water shoots out and hits the preacher, KNOCKING him across the street into a plate glass window.
VALERIE: Can we go fly over Central Park?
NICKY: Next time. Tonight, I want to share the most beautiful thing I could possibly EXT. OVER THE HUDSON RIVER - NIGHT They fly over it, away from NYC.
VALERIE: We're going to Jersey?
NICKY: East Rutherford.
NICKY: I never thought I'd ever see Ozzy live until he was dead. Please tell me you like metal.
VALERIE: ( sings along to song ) "Mister Crowley, what's inside of your Nicky's jaw drops as he stares at her.
NICKY: My dog was right. I'm in love with you. They slow dance tighter. The music swells. John and Peter look up from their seats far below. Nicky sees them while he's holding her tight. They give thumbs up.
NICKY: ( in Korean ) Moo ya san jie bay! The Koreans just glare. Nicky's confused.
NICKY: What's going on here? But when he heads downhill, the GUYS IN WHEELCHAIRS start to catch up. They get closer and closer until. Nicky makes a last second right turn into an alley. The wheelchairs can't slow down and crash into a double decker tourist BUS at the bottom of the street. The TOURIST on the top level look over the edge to see the crash.
NICKY: Ow.what was that for?
BUM: Fifty million dollars. The bum holds up a NEW YORK POST. It reads "MONSTER WANTED!" And has a picture of Nicky. Nicky is shocked. Nicky turns to run out of the alley, but the mob is there blocking the entrance. He's trapped. They start running right at him. He closes his eyes.
NICKY: Release the evil. Nicky's body splits into about five-hundred horrifying insects, all with a miniature NICKY HEAD. The Nickysects run right at the crowd, and the crows immediately starts running the other way, completely freaked INT. TODD'S APARTMENT - DAY Beefy and Todd are watching TV. They look over to see the insects scurry under the front door and morph back into one exhausted Nicky.
NICKY: I seem to be in trouble, Beefy.
BEEFY: The shit has hit the fan, kid. Take a Been breaking all morning.
TODD: Been breaking all morning.
DAN RATHER: At a news conference earlier today, Chief of Police Andy Shaifer gave this beleaguered city its latest dose of bad news. He revealed that the man who caused a sensation at basketball arena last night is no hero. he is, in fact, a mass murderer. We see the chief of police behind a bunch of mics. He's holding up a picture of Nicky taken at the Basketball arena.
NICKY: I didn't murder anybody
BEEFY: Look. You were really high. Things I was with Valerie, I swear. This is Adrian's work. I've got to find him.
NICKY: I was with Valerie, I swear. This is Adrian's work. I've got to find him.
BEEFY: I think you're looking at him.
GUY: ( Adrian's voice ) My name's Nicky, and I'm gonna kill all you suckers for no reason! CUT TO FOOTAGE on "SCARFACE"
NICKY: This is baloney!
BEEFY: He superimposed your head onto .which is by far DePalma's best A LOUD KNOCKING AT THE DOOR The pounding increases.
TODD: .which is by far DePalma's best A LOUD KNOCKING AT THE DOOR The pounding increases.
NICKY: I'm not Nicky. I'm not home! I don't live here!
PETER: Dude, it's us. Let us in. Nicky opens the door. Peter and John stumble in.
JOHN: There's like a total mob scene coming this way. We hear VOICES of an approaching crowd coming outside.
NICKY: I thought for sure I gave 'em the slip. Todd i s looking out the window.
TODD: Looks like they're following a giant trail of bug shit.
PETER: What'll we do now, Beefy?
BEEFY: I don't know, this is a little out of my VOICES GROW LOUDER. Come on. Let's get 'em.
JOHN: What would your dad do, Nicky?
NICKY: Good idea.kill me.
PETER: Dude. Seriously?
NICKY: Yes. I'll meet you at Grand Central at noon. Okay. Do me. I command you.
NICKY: That just hurt a lot.
TODD: I've always wanted to kill someone. Can I do it?
JOHN: Look at Queen Latifah steppin' up.
TODD: Die, Grandma, die! Nicky's arm comes out with a thumbs up. Pause. The hand drops back in. He's dead.
LUCIFER: Royal flush, you lose. Off with the The Demons and Gatekeeper are sitting around playing strip poker. The Gatekeeper takes off his bra. From behind, we see his breasts flop out.
NICKY: Dad, Adrian's got the whole city after me. He's always a step ahead. What am I gonna do?
DAD: What are you gonna do? Look at me, Nicky! I got no legs, I got no hips, I got one ear. Dad's remaining ear falls out.
NICKY: Uh, I'll do my best, Dad. Do you have any advice at all for me?
DAD: I can't hear you, Nicky. I can't hear Jimmy picks up the ear. Jimmy speaks into it.
DAD: Put it back on my head. I'm falling apart here.
PETER: You sure you're down with this?
JOHN: Little nervous. Wanna puke. They approach the cops guarding the door.
PETER: We know where to find Nicky. COPS grab John & Peter and drag them inside.
JOHN: Sure do. You got what we want?
PETER: Fifty million bones, bro. He nods to a DEPUTY who gives them a briefcase of money.
PETER: Excellent. But I gotta warn you, man. He's not human.
JOHN: We think he's the son of Satan. PAUSE. The chief LAUGHS, then everyone else does. He walks over and picks them up by their throats.
BAG LADY: Hey, watch it! Who do you think you Emperor of the New Hell. They march through onto the platform for Track 33.
TODD: Where is he? He's late.
BEEFY: He'll be here. Just keep your cool, They hear FOOTSTEPS. They turn and see the chief of police backed up by the huge police force.
TODD: You guys. That was so uncool.
PETER: We thought the son of Satan would understand a move like this. Peter and John high-five.
ADRIAN: Ta-da. So what time is my brother expected back?
JOHN: They look at the clock. It's noon.
PETER: So even though you're not really the chief, we still get the rest of the cash, right bro?
ADRIAN: You know what you'll get? An indescribably horrific torture administered by demons for the rest of But what about the cash? Can we keep it or what?
JOHN: But what about the cash? Can we keep it or what?
ADRIAN: Sure, why not? They high five. Adrian smiles and waits. It is real hot down there. We hear a train coming in the distance. A fan circles slowly. They all wait for him.
LADY: ( mumbling to herself ) Food stamps? They should call 'em "dude stamps." Cause ever time I get one, some dude takes it away. We see the HOMELESS LADY down the platform stumbling her way towards them, drunk. Adrian scowls at her.
JOHN: No thanks.but we'll take that bottle of booze.
LADY: Hey.that's mine. Peter pushes her away.
PETER: Beat it, ya freak. John and Peter high five and John swigs from the bag.
JOHN: ( takes the bag, swigs ) Adrian raises his eyebrows. We see that the homeless lady is actually VALERIE in disguise. She looks back, tense. John offers Adrian the flask.
PETER: ( takes the bag, swigs ) Adrian raises his eyebrows. We see that the homeless lady is actually VALERIE in disguise. She looks back, tense. John offers Adrian the flask.
JOHN: Wanna hit? Hands it to him. He takes it.
PETER: Drink up. Here's to fifty million To the defilement of Earth and the corruption of its people.
ADRIAN: To the defilement of Earth and the corruption of its people.
PETER: Whatever. Knock it back, grab Nicky and let's get outta this hell-hole. Adrian smiles at John, then raises the bag. He stops just before it hits his lips. He looks at John curiously.
ADRIAN: It is awfully hot down here. How do you manage to stay so cool?
JOHN: Weed lowers the body temperature. I read that.in, uh.er, science Adrian stares at John. He raises the bag again.
ADRIAN: This liquid will probably quench my thirst. Cool me off.
PETER: And give you a good buzz.
JOHN: And give you a good buzz.
ADRIAN: Or maybe it will trap me inside for all Uh. No it won't? John starts to tremble a bit.
JOHN: Uh. No it won't? John starts to tremble a bit.
ADRIAN: Oh, Nicky, I've missed you. Come on out and say hello.
JOHN: ( eyes getting red ) I'm calling you out, brother. Adrian is mentally pulling Nicky out of John. Nicky/John wages an epic battle with himself as Adrian smiles.
ADRIAN: ( eyes getting red ) I'm calling you out, brother. Adrian is mentally pulling Nicky out of John. Nicky/John wages an epic battle with himself as Adrian smiles.
ADRIAN: Hello, Cassius.
ADRIAN: You know, New Hell really only needs one new Satan.
ADRIAN: But Cassius could use some company for the rest of eternity. So get in the He puts the Flask in Nicky's hands.
COP: Oh, he's gotta pee. A thick, yellow smoke shoots out of Beefy, enveloping the group. Beefy escapes and bolts back down stairs.
TODD: Run, Beefy! Run!
NICKY: I won't drink. You can't make me. Adrian looks over at Valerie. Suddenly she comes flying over to him. He grabs her by the throat. We hear a train coming in the distance.
ADRIAN: Of course I can. Drink or she dies. Unlike you, she won't come back from where she's going.
NICKY: Let her go.
ADRIAN: I hear a train coming. Drink. The train sound is coming CLOSER. Valerie looks at Nicky. Nicky raises the flash to drink.
VALERIE: Don't do it.
NICKY: I have to, Valerie. We see Beefy skid to a stop, raise his leg and a full size archery arrow shoots out of his penis and tracks right into
ADRIAN: Now that hurt the both of us. Valerie is able to escape momentarily. Adrian reaches for her, grabbing her. They both spin and fall down onto the tracks. Right into the oncoming train.
BEEFY: Now that hurt the both of us. Valerie is able to escape momentarily. Adrian reaches for her, grabbing her. They both spin and fall down onto the tracks. Right into the oncoming train.
NICKY: Nicky leaps down onto the tracks, wrestles Valerie away from Adrian and tosses her off the tracks. Adrian looks at Nicky.
ADRIAN: See you in Hell! WHAMM! The train comes by, hitting both Adrian and Nicky.
ANGEL: Oh. My. G-d. I can't believe you're here. Welcome. Can I just tell you, I am so excited right now.
CHRISTA: So excited.
JENNA: She really is.
NICKY: That's terrific. Now could you ladies point me to the Black Palace? I should check in with my dad. Nicky trails off as he sees the Angels laughing at him.
ANGEL: I'm sorry, you're just so cute.
JENNA: Do you have any idea where you are right The home of eternal damnation, house of Hades, H.E. double toothpicks.
NICKY: The home of eternal damnation, house of Hades, H.E. double toothpicks.
ANGEL: Maybe try the opposite of that. The Angel and two friends laugh and high-five. Nicky's Okay, can I just ask you something? What do you know about your mom?
NICKY: My brothers told me my mother was a mountain goat. Which would explain my chronic halitosis.
ANGEL: ( annoyed ) A mountain goat? That's really sweet.
NICKY: My mom wasn't a goat?
ANGEL: Try an angel.
NICKY: An angel?
ANGEL: Unh-huh. Which would make you half Nicky is floored.
NICKY: Wow. What.what did she look like?
ANGEL: Well, she was about six-three, only spoke Portuguese and had really long grey hair. The GIRLS start laughing.
JENNA: I'm sorry, but you just had the sweetest look on your face.
CHRISTA: You're gonna be so happy she did that.
NICKY: ( stunned ) How come you're not older?
ANGEL: Angels don't get any older, son.
JENNA: I can't believe you just called him Oh my G-d. This is so wild. They laugh. Nicky is quite baffled.
ANGEL: Oh my G-d. This is so wild. They laugh. Nicky is quite baffled.
DAD: I can't see shit. You're all still here, right? Adrian enters. They all cheer.
DAD LIPS: Yea! I can't believe little Nicky came Where's Nicky?
ADRIAN: Where's Nicky?
ADRIAN: I came through that gate alone.
DAD: Somebody explain what's going on. Puts the Gatekeeper in a headlock.
ADRIAN: Somebody explain what's going on. Puts the Gatekeeper in a headlock.
GATEKEEPER: You'll get nothing out of me.
ADRIAN: Perhaps a titty twister will loosen your He twists a breast. The Gatekeeper babbles out the information immediately.
GATEKEEPER: The only way to save your dad is for you and your brothers to pass through the gates at the same time before he deteriorates completely.
ADRIAN: How much time does Dad have before that Adrian twists hard.
GATEKEEPER: Thirty minutes. And then whoever claims his throne will have unimaginable power. Adrian throws him down.
LUCIFER: All boobs and no balls.
ADRIAN: Thirty minutes. Hmmm. I hope you don't mind if I take a seat while I wait for He moves to the throne and throws the lips off.
DAD LIPS: He pushes Lucifer out of the way.
LUCIFER: I don't get no respect.
ADRIAN: Ten thousand years. And I never once got to sit here. He sits on the throne and it starts to shake a little. He grins as two horns grow out of his forehead.
DAD: Hell's gonna bust wide open. Demons, get him out of the chair! The demons approach.
ADRIAN: Ah-ah. Not so fast, demons. There are a couple of million evil souls on Earth ready to be harvested. Anyone The demons stop. Now loyal to Adrian. All except Jimmy.
NICKY: Are you Adrian and Cassius' mom, too?
CHRISTA: No, their mother's weren't angels.
ANGEL: I think they were hookers or strippers or something really porno like. There's a knock on the door. It opens and in comes Carl Weathers dressed as Chubbs from Happy Gilmore.
CHUBBS: Holly, Jenna, Christa. Time for your Mambo lesson.
ANGEL: Oh, Chubbs. I totally spaced. I'm so sorry. I have company. It's my son, Nicky. My son. Can you believe it?
CHUBBS: Wow, that's terrific.
ANGEL: Nicky, this is Chubbs. He used to be a golf pro, but up here he's the dopest dance instructor.
CHUBBS: You mambo?
NICKY: I don't think so.
CHUBBS: Remember, it's all in the hips. It's all in the hips. Chubbs dances as he leaves.
NICKY: Where did you meet my father?
ANGEL: It was a long time ago, at some Heaven and Hell mixer.
CHRISTA: I remember that night, you had like four Try four and a half. At first I totally didn't like him.
ANGEL: Try four and a half. At first I totally didn't like him.
JENNA: He was really conceited.
ANGEL: But I don't know, he was funny, he made me laugh, and I hate to say it but he had a really nice body.
NICKY: And that made you want to make a baby with him? The Angels laugh.
ANGEL: Well, I really wasn't thinking about making a baby at the time! Her cell-phone rings. She answers it.
NICKY: Well tell her I said "hi" back. Angel makes a motion towards the phone, then stops.
ANGEL: I'll call her later.
CHRISTA: You know, we saw you save your girlfriend's life.
JENNA: That was so cool.
ANGEL: That's why you came up to Heaven instead of Hell. Self-sacrifice automatically gets you here.
NICKY: How did you see me?
ANGEL: We can see what's going on anywhere on Earth. Look. Angel and the girls clear the junk from the glass table in front of them. Angel touches the glass and it turns into a reflection of Earth below.
ADRIAN: Welcome to the party. It's so nice to see all of you here.
DAD LIPS: I was a good Devil, wasn't I?
GATEKEEPER: DAD LIPS I tried to do some interesting stuff.
DAD LIPS: I tried to do some interesting stuff.
GATEKEEPER: I don't know how you came up with some of it.
DAD LIPS: Really? That means a lot to me.
ADRIAN: I'm very proud of you. You've taken to sin with minimal prompting. The crowd cheers.
ADRIAN: Well, I have some news. Adrian morphs into the Cardinal from earlier.
CARDINAL: There is most definitely a Hell! And you're all going there when you die! Which will happen in about fifteen EXT. NEW HELL RALLY - NIGHT The BAD PEOPLE realize they've been tricked into being bad and they get scared. The Preacher, who is now more battered from his fall through the plate glass window ( ask Steve ), yells out.
PREACHER: We really are gonna die! This kicks off a frenzy of the Scared Bad People trying to run away. But they are stopped and herded back by DEMONS.
PETER: This don't look good.
JOHN: Can't Beefy use his penis powers to get us out of this?
TODD: They castrated him. He can't shoot arrows, he can't piss smoke.
BEEFY: I can't screw. I can't screw. Valerie's crying.
NICKY: Valerie's crying!
ANGEL: She's so nice.
CHRISTA: She goes to Parson's, right?
ANGEL: I would totally love to go there. But I hear it's really hard to get in.
NICKY: I gotta help her. I gotta help Dad. I gotta help everybody.
ANGEL: Yeah, you do.
ADRIAN: Soon you will see things more horrible than you can even imagine. Adrian scans the crowd. He sees.
ADRIAN: Not that horrible, but still pretty bad. Adrian motions to some of his guards. They nod.
ADRIAN: Covered in bees! We see Henry Winkler is suddenly covered head to in a swarm of bees.
NICKY: But how can I win? Adrian is stronger and smarter than me.
ANGEL: Stronger, yes. Smarter, definitely. But you have something he doesn't have.
NICKY: A speech impediment? The girls laugh.
ANGEL: No, you have the inner light. You can totally use it. It's the best power of And in case you get in real bad trouble, G-d told me to give you this. She gives him an ornate, jewelled ball.
NICKY: What is it?
ANGEL: I'm not a hundred percent on that. G-d said when the time comes, you'll know what to do.
CHRISTA: G-d's so smart.
JENNA: The smartest.
ANGEL: Well, goodbye.for now. Can I just do this? She licks her finger and wipes some dirt off his forehead.
FRIEND: Well, nice meeting you, Jenna, Christa. Would it be okay if I called you Mommy?
NICKY: Well, nice meeting you, Jenna, Christa. Would it be okay if I called you Mommy?
ANGEL: It would be so okay. Nicky hugs his Mom.
NICKY: Well, Mommy, get me to the big apple cause I'm gonna rock that town like a You're already there.
NICKY: Release.the good. When he opens them, BEAUTIFUL BUTTERFLIES are floating around the head of five of the DEMONS. They stop approaching. THEIR EYES TURN FROM WHITE BACK TO NORMAL. And their facial expression changes to happiness. They wave at the ANGLE ON MORE DEMONS keep closing.
ANGLE ON: MORE DEMONS keep closing.
DEMON: Popeye's chicken is ass kickin'! The OTHER SOULS dig into the bucket.
TODD: One thing I really regret is never having experimented sexually.
PETER: You mean, like, experiment with a Bunsen Burner? What are you talking about?
JOHN: He means getting it on with someone like that freak.
TODD: His name is Andrew. I know that guy.
JOHN: Of course you do, Tommy Tune.
ADRIAN: You know, from this angle, you're kind of cute.
VALERIE: You think so? Why don't you come a little closer and I'll show you a better He moves a little closer, and she spits on him. He smiles. Opens his mouth and catches her spit. He swallows.
ADRIAN: Everyone is grossed out.
TODD: Oh my G-d, he just opened his mouth and swallowed that spit.
BEEFY: That turn you on there, RuPaul?
ADRIAN: Keep it up and I just might make you my Queen for a night or two.
JOHN: You want a queen? Got one right here. John points at Todd. They laugh. Adrian gets closer to Valerie. Just then a big butterfly appears on his shoulder. He looks down to see: Nicky standing there with his army.
NICKY: Adrian, I'm asking you nicely, in the name of all that is good: release my friends and get in the flask.
ADRIAN: Is this a joke?
NICKY: No. It's the inner light. And with it we can defeat anything you've got.
REFORMED DEMON: ( eating Popeye's chicken ) It's true! Adrian glares down at the REFORMED DEMON. His eyes shoot out an evil ray. The Reformed Demon explodes into a million pieces. His golden insides splatter on the crowd. The Army of Good is shaken. Another Demon lowers his It's not true? The BUCKET OF CHICKEN sprouts legs and runs away. Nicky steps forward bravely.
NICKY: Okay, Adrian, you've left me with no Nicky leaves frame and he flies up towards Adrian.
NICKY: Love lifts me up where I belong.
ANGLE ON: Crowd reacts.
ADRIAN: Not bad, little brother. Let's see what you've got. Nicky thinks, holds out his hands. A rainbow shoots out onto the stage between them. PAUSE. We see that a cute little chipmunk is standing on it's hindlegs eating a nut.
ON CROWD: The army of good and scared bad people applaud as they see BACK ON HELL STAGE Adrian nods, holds out his arms and a red stream shoots out. He has made a terrible PYTHON that comes over and eats the baffled chipmunk in one bite. Nicky raises his hand and: turns the snake into a row of Adrian raises his hand and a crazed MEXICAN GARDNER with a lawn mower comes by and mows them down. Nicky turns the Gardner and his lawn mower into a MOTHER pushing a NEW BORN BABY in a carriage. Adrian turns the baby in the carriage into an EVIL DWARF who leaps out and starts beating up on the mother. Nicky turns the Mother into a HOT GIRL DWARF. The evil Dwarf stops beating her up and holds her hand.
ANGEL: I totally had to do that.
NICKY: Now I'm asking you nicely, get in the Adrian grabs a pillow and hits Nicky hard in the face, sending him flying off the bed.
ADRIAN: Absolutely not. Adrian turns to his demons.
ON FLAGPOLE: We see Henry Winkler, swollen with bee stings, valiantly run over and lowers the five from the flagpoles.
ON ADRIAN: He looks up and glares at Henry.
ON FLAGPOLE: Henry's eyes widen.
HENRY WINKLER: Oh no. He is covered in bees again.
ADRIAN: Goodbye, Nicky. We hear CASSIUS banging against the walls.
VALERIE: NICKY ( O.S. ) That was Cassius! The FLASK starts rolling over and over on the road. People get out of the way as if it were real people fighting in the street. They root for their side.
DEMON: Kill him, Adrian. John and Peter start beating up the Demon.
VALERIE: Where'd a sweet Southern boy learn to fight like that?
NICKY: From my dad's side of the family. She laughs and kisses him on the mouth. The crowd CHEERS. But Nicky won't stop kissing her. She starts to struggle for air. Nicky presses harder and starts to laugh. The crowd stops CHEERING. Valerie is waving her arms for help. Nicky turns into Adrian during the kiss. Adrian lets her go. And we hear ADRIAN'S familiar laugh.
ADRIAN: What? No tongue? Adrian pulls his head back, his tongue is huge and he turns into a GIANT BAT. He lets out a huge roar, then flies around, laughing, scaring people. Valerie runs over and picks up the flask. She looks inside.
VALERIE: ( whispering ) Nicky. Nicky. No response.
OZZY: Hello, New York.
VALERIE: Put him in, Ozzy. Ozzy spits the bat head into the flask.
VALERIE: Grand Central, Nicky. Start running.
JOHN: He'll never make it.
PETER: You gotta kill yourself.
NICKY: I'll just go to Heaven.
BEEFY: No if you do something bad right before you die. PAUSE. Everyone looks around. Nicky spots Henry Winkler.
HENRY WINKLER: Aw, man, not again.
NICKY: Sorry, Henry. Release the Evil. Henry is covered in bees once again.
VALERIE: I love you.
NICKY: I love you. Valerie smashes the rock on Nicky's head, killing him.
ANGEL: Okay, you just saw my son save the universe. Right?! Everyone cheers.
DAD: You came through, Nicky.
NICKY: I came through for you, Mom and the butterflies, Dad.
DAD: You're back in Hell now, kid. There's no butterflies here. If you want butterflies, you need to be on Earth.
NICKY: What about you and Grandpa and everyone in Hell?
DAD: Nicky, I let my butterflies die once upon a time and it's never stopped That's right, you heard me, Holly. I'm still in love with you.
ANGEL: Oh my G-d. He's totally talking about INT. THRONE ROOM - CONTINUOUS And don't think I forgot about how crazy you get after a few daiquiris.
DAD: And don't think I forgot about how crazy you get after a few daiquiris.
FRIEND: That guy is still a horn dog.
DAD: Listen, I got down low. Your mom's got up high. You take care of the middle.
NICKY: I will, Dad. But in the words of Motley Crue, this will always be my.home sweet home. He pats him on the back.
LUCIFER: Let me handle that. Lucifer walks over to the closet.
HITLER: Holy Schnit! FREEZE FRAME, then:
LADY: Oh.what an uncommonly beautiful baby.
VALERIE: Thank yo.
LADY: Such a little angel.
BEEFY: Only a quarter, ma'am. She tickles the baby. It giggles and a small stream of fire shoots out of his mouth and singes the Old Lady's eyebrows.
NICKY: Zachariah, say you're sorry.
BABY ZACHARIAH: ( sounds like Nicky ) The Lady scurries away. Nicky and Valerie laugh and continue walking in absolute bliss. They pass the Preacher who runs towards us.
PREACHER: He has spilled his seed! He is multiplying! Beware the progeny of the unholy union! We're all gonna die! The Preacher runs straight into the camera. BLACK.
