EDDY: cards and these you can't change. If you don't look at your cards you're a `blind man' and you only put in half the stake. Three of any kind is the highest you can get: the odds are four hundred and twenty- five to one. Then it's a running flush - you know, all the same suit running in order; then a straight, then a flush, then a pair, and finally whatever the highest card you are holding. There are some tell- tale signs that are valuable; I am not going to tell you them because it took me long enough to learn them, but these can only help a player, not make one. So you want to play?
SERG: feel a case of the flu coming on and . . .
EDDY: feel a case of the flu coming on and . . .
SERG: All right, all right, don't think I wouldn't like to get rid of you; but before I do, I need to know what's going on, son.
EDDY: DISSOLVE TO BLACK. THE MUSIC STARTS. We pull back out of the black to reveal that we have been sitting in the inside of a shotgun. The barrels recede further, then `boom.' LOCK STOCK are shot out of the top of the screen in peppered letters. We wait for a while, as the barrels reappear through. the smoke. We then see one smoking barrel; 'boom!' the other is let off: AND TWO SMOKING BARRELS joins the sentence.]
BACON: by-the-gas-light. If you can't see value here today you're not up here shopping, you're up here shoplifting. Take a bag, take a bag. I took a bag, I took a bag home last night and she cost a lot more than ten pounds I can tell ya. Tell me if I am going too cheap. Not ninety, not eighty, not forty, half that and half that again, that's right, ten pounds. Don't think 'cos it's sealed up it's an empty box. The only man who sells empty boxes is the undertaker, and by the look of some of you here today I would make more money with me measuring tape. A well-dressed, zealous character ( Eddy ) appears from behind the crowd waving money. It seems he can't wait to get rid of it.
EDDY: say? I'll have five. Certainly sir. I'll just wrap. Changing his attention.
BACON: A tourist spectator, rather than a buyer, has been. put on the spot. She fumbles through her bag hastily all too aware of the attention of the crowd, of which she is now the focus. She passes her money like it's contaminated. Others follow suit. Buy 'em, you better buy 'em; they're not stolen, they just never been paid for. This really stokes the fire. The money can't come fast enough. Just as business reaches its peak there is a call of alarm from the first enthusiastic punter, who seems to be rather more familiar than he first Bacon's expression changes dramatically. A series of crash zooms between Ed's, Bacon's and a third party's eyes ( the police ) reveal there is a problem. They're off: EDDY and BACON run like they have done this before. They go down an ally; Ed jumps some stairs, we freeze.
EDDY: Bacon's expression changes dramatically. A series of crash zooms between Ed's, Bacon's and a third party's eyes ( the police ) reveal there is a problem. They're off: EDDY and BACON run like they have done this before. They go down an ally; Ed jumps some stairs, we freeze.
BACON: Ed can run fast, talk fast, eat fast, and play cards fast, but he's fucking slow when it comes to spotting the roz.
EDDY: The reason he is called BACON is he spent so much of his youth in the police station that people thought he was one of them. But he is a big boy now and it is time to move on. We cut to a shot of Ed as he lands. He has made good distance.
TOM: Tom examines his midriff and adopts a confused expression.
NICK: Tom examines his midriff and adopts a confused expression.
EDDY: Tom examines his midriff and adopts a confused expression.
TOM: INT. GROCER'S SHOP STORE ROOM - DAY They work their way past a maze of boxes.
NICK: How much did you say it was, Tom?
TOM: INT. RESTAURANT KITCHEN -AFTERNOON Tom and Ed make their way through a busy, well-equipped kitchen. This is obviously a smart and serious establishment. They stop in front of the man whose uniform is covered in blood; he appears to be the head chef. Meet Soap.
NICK: INT. RESTAURANT KITCHEN -AFTERNOON Tom and Ed make their way through a busy, well-equipped kitchen. This is obviously a smart and serious establishment. They stop in front of the man whose uniform is covered in blood; he appears to be the head chef. Meet Soap.
TOM: INT. RESTAURANT KITCHEN -AFTERNOON Tom and Ed make their way through a busy, well-equipped kitchen. This is obviously a smart and serious establishment. They stop in front of the man whose uniform is covered in blood; he appears to be the head chef. Meet Soap.
TOM: Tom. Call that fresh? There was more small hairy armoured things in your fruit than there was fruit. You should open a butcher's, not a surprised if your fruit picks up a few tourists en route. ~ Never mind that, what about the money?
SOAP: Tom. Call that fresh? There was more small hairy armoured things in your fruit than there was fruit. You should open a butcher's, not a surprised if your fruit picks up a few tourists en route. ~ Never mind that, what about the money?
TOM: surprised if your fruit picks up a few tourists en route. ~ Never mind that, what about the money?
SOAP: SLOW MOTION Soap pulls out a bag from under where he is sitting.
SLOW MOTION: Soap pulls out a bag from under where he is sitting.
TOM: Soap is called Soap because he likes to keep his hands clean of any unlawful behaviour. He is proud of his job, and even more proud that it's legal.
BACON: He's a stroppy sod but he's got more balls than a golfer, only he doesn't know it. ' Cut from completed film.
EDDY: see it again, if that's what you mean. You got the rest from the fat man and Bacon? Tom looks on with suspicion.
SOAP: see it again, if that's what you mean. You got the rest from the fat man and Bacon? Tom looks on with suspicion.
TOM: INT. HATCHET HARRY'S OFFICE - DAY A hard-looking man of about fifty is sat behind a large antique desk. On this desk is a hatchet resting in a block of wood, poised like a judge's hammer. Harry is obviously in the sex game. Cluttered up in a hazardous way are a selection of dildos, spanking paddles, etc. A cabinet of fine-looking shotguns is placed behind. We have a split screen involving EDDY and his friends ( listening in ) and Hatchet with one hand on the phone and the other on a shotgun.
EDDY: INT. HATCHET HARRY'S OFFICE - DAY A hard-looking man of about fifty is sat behind a large antique desk. On this desk is a hatchet resting in a block of wood, poised like a judge's hammer. Harry is obviously in the sex game. Cluttered up in a hazardous way are a selection of dildos, spanking paddles, etc. A cabinet of fine-looking shotguns is placed behind. We have a split screen involving EDDY and his friends ( listening in ) and Hatchet with one hand on the phone and the other on a shotgun.
HATCHET: INT. KITCHEN - DAY. FREEZE SHOT OF HATCHET You see it's not easy to take a seat at this table; the money involved has to be a hundred grand upwards and there is no shortage of punters.
EDDY: FREEZE SHOT OF HATCHET You see it's not easy to take a seat at this table; the money involved has to be a hundred grand upwards and there is no shortage of punters.
TOM: You see it's not easy to take a seat at this table; the money involved has to be a hundred grand upwards and there is no shortage of punters.
EDDY: The man who decides if you can play is this man Harry, or Hatchet Harry as some including himself like to call him.
HATCHET: The phone is slammed down.
SOAP: When the old bastard is not playing cards he's chasing a thousand debts that ill-fated individuals owe for an array of reasons.
BACON: Sex and sleaze and antique shotguns are all deep and dear in Harry's stone cold heart. Cut from completed film.
HATCHET: The camera spins round to reveal a massive monster of a man sitting opposite Hatchet. Meet Barry the Baptist.
EDDY: Hatchet has a colleague, a monster of a man: Barry the Baptist.
BACON: The Baptist got his name from drowning people for Hatchet.
TOM: But he needs him, because he is good at making sure debts get settled and jobs get done.
BARRY: rare ability, he seems to make cards transparent, got bluffing dow . .
HATCHET: All right, all right, so we can say he is good.
BARRY: He has got some adhesive mates, they have tossed up between them.
HATCHET: He has got some adhesive mates, they have tossed up between them.
BARRY: He has got some adhesive mates, they have tossed up between them.
HATCHET: I got it under control.
BARRY: I got it under control.
HATCHET: A glossy Christie's brochure displaying a pair of impressive antique hammer-lock shotguns is shoved in Barry's face. It seems Lord Appleton Smythe has run out of money, and these little beauties are up for auction, but I am not paying quarter of a million quid for 'em, if you know what I mean Barry. One of my associates has given me an address and the location of these lovelies. Make sure we get everything from inside the gun cabinet. I don't want to know who you use, as long as they are not complete muppets; and don't tell them what they're worth. Changing the subject. 'Ere! Hold on, what do you think of these? We are selling hundreds. Holds up one of the spanking paddles.
BARRY: The paddle is brought down hard on the desk: slap.
HATCHET: The paddle is brought down hard on the desk: slap.
DOG: We see an individual hanging upside down tied up with gaffer tape but otherwise naked. An orange is stuck in the man's mouth. Dog is standing on another man's chest who has a tee stuck between his teeth from where Dog fires golf balls at the other unfortunate figure. The tied-up man is Gordon. The other is Slick. Gordon nods his head erratically implying that he has reached a decision. ( to Plank ) I think your man is trying to say something. Perhaps not; maybe I should have another swing just to make sure. Agonised muffled screaming from Gordon. Slick ( who has a tee in his mouth ) shuts his eyes in horror as the golf ball thumps into Gordon. Yes, Gordon, is there something you would like to tell us? The orange is removed from Gordon's mouth.
GORDON: In the kitchen, under the floor . . .
SLICK: Shut it, you idiot . . . Dog swings the golf club round Slick's jaw, knocking him unconscious.
DOG: god's sake let me down.
GORDON: god's sake let me down.
PLANK: Plank returns holding an assortment of drugs and cash. Gordon starts to scream. Dog picks up a steel for sharpening knives and throws it across the room. Thunk. Silence follows. Plank grimaces. Oh, Dog!
BACON: pound. You don't need to count it.
EDDY: So, a reasonable return should be in the region of one hundred and twenty, for twenty-five grand invested. That's going on previous funny, but you're not. Tom is definitely not overweight, quite the opposite in fact. He examines himself to see if something has developed.
TOM: So, a reasonable return should be in the region of one hundred and twenty, for twenty-five grand invested. That's going on previous funny, but you're not. Tom is definitely not overweight, quite the opposite in fact. He examines himself to see if something has developed.
SOAP: funny, but you're not. Tom is definitely not overweight, quite the opposite in fact. He examines himself to see if something has developed.
TOM: funny, but you're not. Tom is definitely not overweight, quite the opposite in fact. He examines himself to see if something has developed.
SOAP: funny, but you're not. Tom is definitely not overweight, quite the opposite in fact. He examines himself to see if something has developed.
TOM: The light switch above Tom's head lets out a few sparks causing him to cower in a sharp defensive action. Jesus! It's good in here, ain't it! Trains overhead, walls exploding . . . Why the hell did you move in?
EDDY: a bit anti-social, you know. BACON beckons Tom to a cupboard built into the wall.
BACON: a bit anti-social, you know. BACON beckons Tom to a cupboard built into the wall.
TOM: off unfortunate souls of their hard-earned drugs. BACON opens the cupboard doors and puts his finger to his lips. The noise from next door immediately gets louder. Not exactly thick, these walls.
EDDY: off unfortunate souls of their hard-earned drugs. BACON opens the cupboard doors and puts his finger to his lips. The noise from next door immediately gets louder. Not exactly thick, these walls.
BACON: off unfortunate souls of their hard-earned drugs. BACON opens the cupboard doors and puts his finger to his lips. The noise from next door immediately gets louder. Not exactly thick, these walls.
DOG: No you prat, that's for me.
DOG: worth doing and you will find your share improving . . . Now do you have a problem with that? He obviously doesn't.
BIG CHRIS: LITTLE CHRIS BIG CHRIS LITTLE CHRIS BIG CHRIS INT. GYM/SOLARIUM - NIGHT BIG CHRIS Little Chris looks under one of the sunbeds.
LITTLE CHRIS: BIG CHRIS LITTLE CHRIS BIG CHRIS INT. GYM/SOLARIUM - NIGHT BIG CHRIS Little Chris looks under one of the sunbeds.
BIG CHRIS: LITTLE CHRIS BIG CHRIS INT. GYM/SOLARIUM - NIGHT BIG CHRIS Little Chris looks under one of the sunbeds.
LITTLE CHRIS: BIG CHRIS INT. GYM/SOLARIUM - NIGHT BIG CHRIS Little Chris looks under one of the sunbeds.
BIG CHRIS: INT. GYM/SOLARIUM - NIGHT BIG CHRIS Little Chris looks under one of the sunbeds.
BIG CHRIS: Little Chris looks under one of the sunbeds.
LITTLE CHRIS: BIG CHRIS Little Chris returns from a peek and nods in confirmation.
BIG CHRIS: Little Chris returns from a peek and nods in confirmation.
LITTLE CHRIS: Big Chris then approaches and raises the sunbed.
BIG CHRIS: John O'Driscoll's eyes widen; Chris slams down the sunbed on top of him as hard as he can. Got some bad news for you, John.
JOHN O'DRISCOLL: Big Chris slams down the sunbed on top of John.
BIG CHRIS: JOHN O'DRISCOLL Big Chris repeats the earlier treatment twice more.
JOHN O'DRISCOLL: Big Chris repeats the earlier treatment twice more.
BIG CHRIS: A man opens the sunbed mom door.
JOHN'O'DRISCOLL: A man opens the sunbed mom door.
SUNBED MAN: LITTLE CHRIS SUNBED MAN BIG CHRIS Chris pulls a mean face; the door is closed.] Tell me John, how you can concentrate on improving a lovely tan, and it is a lovely tan by the way, when you have more pressing priorities at JOHN O'DRISCOLL Bang as sunbed comes down again.
LITTLE CHRIS: SUNBED MAN BIG CHRIS Chris pulls a mean face; the door is closed.] Tell me John, how you can concentrate on improving a lovely tan, and it is a lovely tan by the way, when you have more pressing priorities at JOHN O'DRISCOLL Bang as sunbed comes down again.
SUNBED MAN: BIG CHRIS Chris pulls a mean face; the door is closed.] Tell me John, how you can concentrate on improving a lovely tan, and it is a lovely tan by the way, when you have more pressing priorities at JOHN O'DRISCOLL Bang as sunbed comes down again.
BIG CHRIS: Chris pulls a mean face; the door is closed.] Tell me John, how you can concentrate on improving a lovely tan, and it is a lovely tan by the way, when you have more pressing priorities at JOHN O'DRISCOLL Bang as sunbed comes down again.
JOHN O'DRISCOLL: Bang as sunbed comes down again.
BIG CHRIS: and chose your words carefully. You may speak.
JOHN O'DRISCOLL: nearly there.
BIG CHRIS: JOHN O'DRISCOLL Cut from completed film.
JOHN O'DRISCOLL: Cut from completed film.
BIG CHRIS: Big Chris lifts it, then smashes it down again. Now, you want me to lift it up again? Little Chris pipes up. Obviously familiar with counting money he has flown through it.
LITTLE CHRIS: wallet . . . Fuckin' 'ell John, you always walk around with that in your pocket? The expression on Big Chris's face changes.
BIG CHRIS: LITTLE CHRTS BIG CHRIS a plastic bag tonight, John. You owe what you owe arid before this tan has faded, you want to have paid. Chris punches John unconscious and turns the time dial up.
LITTLE CHRTS: BIG CHRIS a plastic bag tonight, John. You owe what you owe arid before this tan has faded, you want to have paid. Chris punches John unconscious and turns the time dial up.
BIG CHRIS: a plastic bag tonight, John. You owe what you owe arid before this tan has faded, you want to have paid. Chris punches John unconscious and turns the time dial up.
EDDY: He walks off.
TOM: your rest in.
SOAP: it's in all our interests.
TOM: it's in all our interests.
JD: All right lads? How's things? How's it going, Soap? Cooking all right? Where's that son of mine? Each time a question is asked the lads try to answer but are just left with their mouths open, which remain open as a gorgeous girl walks through the bar ( Daisy ).
J: This gear is getting heavier you know, Charles. I got a suspicion we should have been rocket scientists, or Noble Peace Prize winners or A horn blows ( the door bell ).
CHARLES: INT. SLOANES' HOUSE - NIGHT The door opens to reveal Willy. Under each arm is a large bag of A voice comes from behind them. At the top of the stairs stands Winston. He slowly starts to walk down.
WILLY: A voice comes from behind them. At the top of the stairs stands Winston. He slowly starts to walk down.
WINSTON: Pause. Charlie shrugs.
CHARLIE: having it if we don't fucking use it?
WINSTON: having it if we don't fucking use it?
CHARLIE: of cats in the alley at the best of times, so just do as I say and keep the fucking cage locked. Pause as the two in the door look slightly pissed off at being shouted at. Winston sighs and looks at what Willy is carrying.
WINSTON: of cats in the alley at the best of times, so just do as I say and keep the fucking cage locked. Pause as the two in the door look slightly pissed off at being shouted at. Winston sighs and looks at what Willy is carrying.
WILLY: of cats in the alley at the best of times, so just do as I say and keep the fucking cage locked. Pause as the two in the door look slightly pissed off at being shouted at. Winston sighs and looks at what Willy is carrying.
WINSTON: of cats in the alley at the best of times, so just do as I say and keep the fucking cage locked. Pause as the two in the door look slightly pissed off at being shouted at. Winston sighs and looks at what Willy is carrying.
WINSTON: carrying two bags of fertilizer. Alarm bells are ringing, Willy.
WILLY: carrying two bags of fertilizer. Alarm bells are ringing, Willy.
WINSTON: carrying two bags of fertilizer. Alarm bells are ringing, Willy.
WILLY: out by Thursday and I'll be buggered if I am counting it . . . and if you have to get your sodding fertilizer, couldn't you be a little more average hort-er-fucking-culturalist, that's what I mean, Willy. Winston turns on his heels and walks off. 35
WINSTON: out by Thursday and I'll be buggered if I am counting it . . . and if you have to get your sodding fertilizer, couldn't you be a little more average hort-er-fucking-culturalist, that's what I mean, Willy. Winston turns on his heels and walks off. 35
WILLY: average hort-er-fucking-culturalist, that's what I mean, Willy. Winston turns on his heels and walks off. 35
WINSTON: average hort-er-fucking-culturalist, that's what I mean, Willy. Winston turns on his heels and walks off. 35
TOM: What the hell are you doing here?
EDDY: Harry. You're supposed to be getting some rest, boy! Ed grimaces as his father approaches. He has overheard this last JD You playing cards tonight with Harry?
TOM: Harry. You're supposed to be getting some rest, boy! Ed grimaces as his father approaches. He has overheard this last JD You playing cards tonight with Harry?
EDDY: Don't be silly Dad, I wouldn't have anything to do with that.
GARY: . Make sure you bring everything from inside the gun cabinet. There will be a load of guns, that's all I want. I'll pay you when you deliver. Everything outside the cabinet you can keep; it's yours.
BARRY: . Make sure you bring everything from inside the gun cabinet. There will be a load of guns, that's all I want. I'll pay you when you deliver. Everything outside the cabinet you can keep; it's yours.
GARY: Oh, thanks very much. And there had better be something there for us.
BARRY: and steal cars, what the fuck do we know about antiques?
DEAN: and steal cars, what the fuck do we know about antiques?
BARRY: and steal cars, what the fuck do we know about antiques?
DEAN: and steal cars, what the fuck do we know about antiques?
BARRY: rob the place.
GARY: because you need to know.
BARRY: because you need to know.
GARY: film, is it?
BARRY: A bit of confused eye-rolling goes on. Barry eventually looks at his I am off, it's all yours now. Call me when you're done. As he leaves, the two Scousers eye him distastefully.
GARY: I hate these Southern shites.
BARRY: Fucking Northern monkeys.
DOORMAN: on it.
EDDY: on it.
DOORMAN: on it.
EDDY: the Queen on it. Will that do?
DOORMAN: do mean no one.
EDDY: do mean no one.
DOORMAN: do mean no one.
EDDY: supposed to be symbolic?
EDDY: There is an attractive blonde croupier shuffling the cards. EDDY Evening Tanya, it has been a while.
HATCHET: There is an attractive blonde croupier shuffling the cards. EDDY Evening Tanya, it has been a while.
EDDY: There is an attractive blonde croupier shuffling the cards. EDDY Evening Tanya, it has been a while.
HATCHET: There is an attractive blonde croupier shuffling the cards. EDDY Evening Tanya, it has been a while.
TOM: EXT. STATELY HOME - NIGHT The Scousers make their way to the front door and unravel their lock- picking kit. '
SOAP: SAMOAN JO What's that?
SAMOAN JO: What's that?
BACON: What's that?
SAMOAN JO: fucking rainforest; you could fall in love with an orang-utan in that.
BACON: fucking rainforest; you could fall in love with an orang-utan in that.
SAMOAN JO: SAMOAN JO SAMOAN JO BACON looks at Rory Breaker, the man watching the TV.
BACON: SAMOAN JO SAMOAN JO BACON looks at Rory Breaker, the man watching the TV.
SAMOAN JO: SAMOAN JO BACON looks at Rory Breaker, the man watching the TV.
BACON: SAMOAN JO BACON looks at Rory Breaker, the man watching the TV.
SAMOAN JO: BACON looks at Rory Breaker, the man watching the TV.
BACON: RORY BREAKER He takes a swig of whatever he is drinking and frowns at Bacon. BACON frowns back, then Soap interrupts.
RORY BREAKER: He takes a swig of whatever he is drinking and frowns at Bacon. BACON frowns back, then Soap interrupts.
SOAP: INT. BOXING GYM - NIGHT highest, then three aces and then running down accordingly; then it's a running flush, a run, a flush, then a pair: An open man can't see a blind man, and it will cost you twice the anti to see your opponent. Don't fuck around, fellas; you all know the rules and you know I won't stand for it.
CROUPIER: highest, then three aces and then running down accordingly; then it's a running flush, a run, a flush, then a pair: An open man can't see a blind man, and it will cost you twice the anti to see your opponent. Don't fuck around, fellas; you all know the rules and you know I won't stand for it.
FRAZER: Frazer. One hundred and fifty blind.
EDDY: Frazer. One hundred and fifty blind.
DON: Cut from completed film.
PHIL: Cut from completed film.
HATCHET: hundred and fifty open.
FRAZER: hundred and fifty open.
EDDY: pleasure of seeing in London. One hundred and seventy-five blind.
DON: INT. BOXING GYM CHANGING ROOM - NIGHT Barry, who is sitting among sweaty towels, takes out a four-inch monitor and switches it on, and hey presto we can see the card table. The camera is placed behind Ed in one of the four posts. Barry zooms in, pauses on the back of Ed's head, gets his focus and jibs down to view his cards, pauses and re focuses, because Ed is playing blind. He hasn't raised them: there is nothing Barry can do. We cut to Barry's other hand. He is pressing a button on a remote control. We cut straight to Harry's leg which is receiving the pulse.
HATCHET: INT. BOXING GYM CHANGING ROOM - NIGHT Barry, who is sitting among sweaty towels, takes out a four-inch monitor and switches it on, and hey presto we can see the card table. The camera is placed behind Ed in one of the four posts. Barry zooms in, pauses on the back of Ed's head, gets his focus and jibs down to view his cards, pauses and re focuses, because Ed is playing blind. He hasn't raised them: there is nothing Barry can do. We cut to Barry's other hand. He is pressing a button on a remote control. We cut straight to Harry's leg which is receiving the pulse.
FRAZER: INT. BOXING GYM CHANGING ROOM - NIGHT Barry, who is sitting among sweaty towels, takes out a four-inch monitor and switches it on, and hey presto we can see the card table. The camera is placed behind Ed in one of the four posts. Barry zooms in, pauses on the back of Ed's head, gets his focus and jibs down to view his cards, pauses and re focuses, because Ed is playing blind. He hasn't raised them: there is nothing Barry can do. We cut to Barry's other hand. He is pressing a button on a remote control. We cut straight to Harry's leg which is receiving the pulse.
EDDY: INT. BOXING GYM CHANGING ROOM - NIGHT Barry, who is sitting among sweaty towels, takes out a four-inch monitor and switches it on, and hey presto we can see the card table. The camera is placed behind Ed in one of the four posts. Barry zooms in, pauses on the back of Ed's head, gets his focus and jibs down to view his cards, pauses and re focuses, because Ed is playing blind. He hasn't raised them: there is nothing Barry can do. We cut to Barry's other hand. He is pressing a button on a remote control. We cut straight to Harry's leg which is receiving the pulse.
HATCHET: should be at the fucking hairdressers, so shut up and play. ( dramatic pause ) I fold.
FRAZER: There is a pause as Don examines Ed's brow looking for a trace of Two grand? You're still blind. You have been eating too much English beef, mate; honkers, mad.
EDDY: There is a pause as Don examines Ed's brow looking for a trace of Two grand? You're still blind. You have been eating too much English beef, mate; honkers, mad.
DON: There is a pause as Don examines Ed's brow looking for a trace of Two grand? You're still blind. You have been eating too much English beef, mate; honkers, mad.
FRAZER: There is a pause as Don examines Ed's brow looking for a trace of Two grand? You're still blind. You have been eating too much English beef, mate; honkers, mad.
EDDY: There is a pause as Don examines Ed's brow looking for a trace of Two grand? You're still blind. You have been eating too much English beef, mate; honkers, mad.
DON: There is a pause as Don examines Ed's brow looking for a trace of Two grand? You're still blind. You have been eating too much English beef, mate; honkers, mad.
HATCHET: Cut from completed film.
DON: We can feel the confidence emanating from Eddy. Don continues to search Ed's forehead waiting for a break of nervous moisture, but it's as dry as a desert disco.
CROUPIER: We can feel the confidence emanating from Eddy. Don continues to search Ed's forehead waiting for a break of nervous moisture, but it's as dry as a desert disco.
EDDY: anti is because I don't know what I have got. Now play, or fold. EXT. STREET - NIGHT. Don is thrown out on to the street, screaming and cursing.
DEAN: Dean looks at Gary's disguise with some distaste. He has a stocking pulled over only half his face. A sexy thigh grip is replicating an artificial, frilly moustache, not giving the desired menacing look. A big bouffant head of hair is neatly being conntrolled up on top.
GARY: Dean looks at Gary's disguise with some distaste. He has a stocking pulled over only half his face. A sexy thigh grip is replicating an artificial, frilly moustache, not giving the desired menacing look. A big bouffant head of hair is neatly being conntrolled up on top.
DEAN: ( Lovingly rearranging his hair ) If you think I am going to ruin it for a couple of old bastards you're mistaken, Kenny.
GARY: ( Lovingly rearranging his hair ) If you think I am going to ruin it for a couple of old bastards you're mistaken, Kenny.
DEAN: Gary is on the point of lighting another piece of tissue.
GARY: 48 49 They can't even afford new furniture. We've got the guns; now if you don't mind . . . At that moment they are interrupted by the sound of a shotgun cartridge. The ancient butler has made an unexpected entrance. He is holding an equally ancient pair of hammer-lock guns ( the ones from the catalogue ) which he has obviously got little control of. The recoil knocks the butler clear off his feet. The second shot hits the ceiling covering the old boy in plaster. We cut to a POV of the butler on his back. We see Dean looking down. You want to be more careful, old fella. You very nearly took my man's head clean off with that. You all right, Kenny? We cut to a shaking shell-shocked Gary, mouth agape. The gun shot has torn through the centre of Gary's bouffant hairdo leaving him with a pair of smoking Mickey Mouse ears. Shock prevents him from answering. INT. BOXING GYM - NIGHT We see Hatchet feeling his leg; he looks shifty
DEAN: They can't even afford new furniture. We've got the guns; now if you don't mind . . . At that moment they are interrupted by the sound of a shotgun cartridge. The ancient butler has made an unexpected entrance. He is holding an equally ancient pair of hammer-lock guns ( the ones from the catalogue ) which he has obviously got little control of. The recoil knocks the butler clear off his feet. The second shot hits the ceiling covering the old boy in plaster. We cut to a POV of the butler on his back. We see Dean looking down. You want to be more careful, old fella. You very nearly took my man's head clean off with that. You all right, Kenny? We cut to a shaking shell-shocked Gary, mouth agape. The gun shot has torn through the centre of Gary's bouffant hairdo leaving him with a pair of smoking Mickey Mouse ears. Shock prevents him from answering. INT. BOXING GYM - NIGHT We see Hatchet feeling his leg; he looks shifty
EDDY: We see Hatchet feeling his leg; he looks shifty
HATCHET: EDDY looks at his cards: he has a running flush.
EDDY: INT. BOXING GYM CHANGING ROOM - NIGHT Barrv sighs with relief and types in the relevant information.
HATCHET: We hear lots of oohs and aahs. EDDY frowns slightly This is odd play. Rather than looking happy he has a discrete glance over his shoulder; satisfied that nothing can be amiss, he collects his money. Don't go spending, that all at once, boy.
BARRY: 50 ~ 51 INT. RED PHONE BOX - NIGHT The Scousers reply; Gary is still unable to speak due to his shotgun Gary wanders past the phone box in a gormless state. He obviously doesn't know what day of the week it is.
DEAN: Gary wanders past the phone box in a gormless state. He obviously doesn't know what day of the week it is.
BARRY: Gary wanders past the phone box in a gormless state. He obviously doesn't know what day of the week it is.
DEAN: Gary wanders past the phone box in a gormless state. He obviously doesn't know what day of the week it is.
DEAN: Barry frowns down the telephone. Yeah, yeah, we got 'em.
BARRY: Barry clicks the phone off. Dean looks at Gary and raises his voice as if speaking to a deaf person.
DEAN: van now, OK? Dean takes his arm and guides him back into the van.
EDDY: on here. I fold.
PHIL: on here. I fold.
HATCHET: Hatchet looks impatiently at the door.
EDDY: Hatchet scours Ed's forehead. It is still dry.
HATCHET: BOXING GYM CHANGING ROOM - NIGHT Barry, who is trying as hard as he can to see Ed's cards, frustratedly zooms in and out; eventually Ed raises them just enough; Barry jibs, hey bingo he sees Ed's cards! Ed's got nothing but a pair of sixes. Barry excitedly starts tapping INT. BOXING GYM - MGHT HATCHER ( interrupts j I know you're not in, which means nobody cares what you know. Two hundred and fifty. Hatchet and EDDY minutely study each other's hairlines, waiting for a nervous droplet to appear. Sweat breaks; a drop on Ed's forehead, fills frame. Slowly we follow a droplet's journey coursing down Eddy's brow Eventually this is met by a large unblinking eye, at this point the pause is broken.
EDDY: HATCHER ( interrupts j I know you're not in, which means nobody cares what you know. Two hundred and fifty. Hatchet and EDDY minutely study each other's hairlines, waiting for a nervous droplet to appear. Sweat breaks; a drop on Ed's forehead, fills frame. Slowly we follow a droplet's journey coursing down Eddy's brow Eventually this is met by a large unblinking eye, at this point the pause is broken.
FRAZER: HATCHER ( interrupts j I know you're not in, which means nobody cares what you know. Two hundred and fifty. Hatchet and EDDY minutely study each other's hairlines, waiting for a nervous droplet to appear. Sweat breaks; a drop on Ed's forehead, fills frame. Slowly we follow a droplet's journey coursing down Eddy's brow Eventually this is met by a large unblinking eye, at this point the pause is broken.
EDDY: As you know, this puts us in an awkward position. I don't have enough to continue. continue. It's a loan or we see both your cards. Silence follows. A lot of nose scratching and examining of imaginary dirty ftngernails spreads contagiously throughout the remaining It doesn't look . . .
HATCHET: As you know, this puts us in an awkward position. I don't have enough to continue. continue. It's a loan or we see both your cards. Silence follows. A lot of nose scratching and examining of imaginary dirty ftngernails spreads contagiously throughout the remaining It doesn't look . . .
CROUPIER: continue. It's a loan or we see both your cards. Silence follows. A lot of nose scratching and examining of imaginary dirty ftngernails spreads contagiously throughout the remaining It doesn't look . . .
HATCHET: I will.
EDDY: Silence. The sweat bead reaches the bottom of Ed's chin, trembles for a second, then unattaches itself. Very slowly it falls. We follow its long silent journey. Eventually it is greeted by the back of Ed's cards. It explodes dramatically in sound and vision, symbolizing this worrying news.
HATCHET: Silence. The sweat bead reaches the bottom of Ed's chin, trembles for a second, then unattaches itself. Very slowly it falls. We follow its long silent journey. Eventually it is greeted by the back of Ed's cards. It explodes dramatically in sound and vision, symbolizing this worrying news.
EDDY: am also offering you the money, so we don't have to turn them over because you can borrow.
HATCHET: am also offering you the money, so we don't have to turn them over because you can borrow.
EDDY: Ed's face is now awash, busily blistering with sweat.
HATCHET: Ed's face is now awash, busily blistering with sweat.
EDDY: The pause is painful.
HATCHET: The pause is painful.
CRUOPIER: EDDY doesn't like the sound of this. There is sympathy in her voice. Harry looks sharply through narrowed eyes at the croupier; the croupier pleads with Eddy.
EDDY: still fold. ( Pause ) OK, before I loan you this, I expect, if you lose of course, my money back within a week, Crystal? That's Sunday, OK? These last few words echo in the distance of Ed's mind ( and ours ). He is committed, but has now left the world of the conscious. Hatchet turns over the first card; it's a seven. EDDY ushers him on; another seven, it looks as though he will have three; then the third: it's a four. There is an anti-climatic silence. After a loud pause . . .
HATCHET: still fold. ( Pause ) OK, before I loan you this, I expect, if you lose of course, my money back within a week, Crystal? That's Sunday, OK? These last few words echo in the distance of Ed's mind ( and ours ). He is committed, but has now left the world of the conscious. Hatchet turns over the first card; it's a seven. EDDY ushers him on; another seven, it looks as though he will have three; then the third: it's a four. There is an anti-climatic silence. After a loud pause . . .
EDDY: still fold. ( Pause ) OK, before I loan you this, I expect, if you lose of course, my money back within a week, Crystal? That's Sunday, OK? These last few words echo in the distance of Ed's mind ( and ours ). He is committed, but has now left the world of the conscious. Hatchet turns over the first card; it's a seven. EDDY ushers him on; another seven, it looks as though he will have three; then the third: it's a four. There is an anti-climatic silence. After a loud pause . . .
HATCHET: still fold. ( Pause ) OK, before I loan you this, I expect, if you lose of course, my money back within a week, Crystal? That's Sunday, OK? These last few words echo in the distance of Ed's mind ( and ours ). He is committed, but has now left the world of the conscious. Hatchet turns over the first card; it's a seven. EDDY ushers him on; another seven, it looks as though he will have three; then the third: it's a four. There is an anti-climatic silence. After a loud pause . . .
CROUPIER: Cut from completed film.
FRAZER: Hatchet looks content and rather nonchalant.
HATCHET: Nobody is impressed by Hatchet's cards; all eyes fall on EDDY expectantly We crash in to Ed's pupils with a loud swoosh. They contract to the size of pinheads. His world has changed for ever.
EDDY: I knew he was bluffing, but somehow the worst card player round the table had fucked me like a frozen virgin with a pair of sevens. A series of blows to my head with a baseball bat would have been greeted with a grin compared to this. Ten minutes earlier, I was two hundred thousand pounds richer; now I owed half a million.
HATCHET: you all a week to find it. After that, I'll take a finger off each of you and your friend's hands for each day that passes without payment; and when you have all run out of digits, then who knows what? Ed gets up. We stumble with him in slow motion. He is hardly able to stand. He wobbles over to the door. Harry continues to talk over the Business is business, and I am good at making mine work. I like your dad's bar, JD's, so don't get clever or lethargic. If you can't pay in a week, a few fingers and a bar for starters. Ed stumbles out of the door, doubles up and vomits all over the f door.
BACON: The others wake on this statement. We cut between the lads and their frozen reaction.
EDDY: I then explained the unfortunate position we were in. Harry was going to start sizing up all our fingers in a week, 'cause he knew there was no way I could raise that kind of money on my own. Harry saw it as their money on the table so it was also their debt off the table. I hate to admit it but I could have kissed the old bastard for that. If I said I wanted to settle this debt on my own it would have been a lie.
EDDY: Tom drops his drink and rushes Eddy.
TOM: Stop fucking around, Tom, and think. What are we going to do?
BACON: Stop fucking around, Tom, and think. What are we going to do?
SOAP: They all look at Soap like he is mad.
BACON: Let me tell you about Hatchet Harry. Once there was this geezer called Smithy Robinson who worked for Harry. It was rumoured that he was on the take. Harry invited Smithy round for an explanation. Smithy didn't do a very good job. Within a minute Harry lost his temper and reached for the nearest thing at hand, which happened to be a fifteen-inch black rubber cock. He then proceeded to batter poor Smithy to death with this; that was seen as a pleasant way to go . . . Hence, Hatchet Harry is a man you pay if you owe.
EDDY: EXT. STREET - DAY Ed, who looks like he is close to suicide, has developed a two-day stubble and his eyes have disappeared into black sockets. He stumbles along the street with a bottle of scotch poking out of a pocket. He stops outside JD's, looks at the entrance and decides not to go in.
J: Who is it?
WINSTON: Who is it?
WILLIAM: Who is it?
PLANK: Plank, open up. This is done without the use of the steel-caged security door. This weed is getting quite a reputation, you know, fellas. Gloria remains motionless in her chair. Plank waves his hand about in a sort of `how you doing' way to everyone and goes to take a seat. At the last minute, poised like he is sitting on a potty he realizes he is about to sit on this girl. Jesus! Never saw you there. Hello, love. Enjoying yourself? Gloria doesn't respond. Plank waves his hand over her face. Still no response. Plank looks around for some acknowledgement. Is she, er, compus?
WINSTON: What do you think? Plank takes a close look at the girl.
GIRL: Plank jumps back, completely taken by surprise, knocking over a pedestal of shoe boxes stacked up against a wall, full of fifty-pound Charles, pissed off, looks at William like it's his fault.
BOO!: Plank jumps back, completely taken by surprise, knocking over a pedestal of shoe boxes stacked up against a wall, full of fifty-pound Charles, pissed off, looks at William like it's his fault.
PLANK: Charles, pissed off, looks at William like it's his fault.
CHARLES: I am after a half weight.
WILLIAM: I am after a half weight.
CHARLES: I am after a half weight.
PLANK: I am after a half weight.
WILLIAM: I am after a half weight.
WINSTON: I am after a half weight.
PLANK: I am after a half weight.
WINSTON: the gear, Charlie. Any chance of seeing your money?
BACON: are a hundred to one for a good reason, BACON . . . it won't win. So where is Ed with all the bright ideas?
SOAP: are a hundred to one for a good reason, BACON . . . it won't win. So where is Ed with all the bright ideas?
BACON: Tom, who has not really been listening, suddenly interrupts.
SOAP: Tom, who has not really been listening, suddenly interrupts.
BACON: Tom, who has not really been listening, suddenly interrupts.
TOM: Faggot Fan Club. You take an advert in the back page of some gay mag, advertising the latest in arse-intruding dildos, sell it a bit with, er . . . I dunno, `does what no other dildo can do until now', latest and greatest in sexual technology. Guaranteed results or money back, all that bollocks. These dills cost twenty-five each; a snip for all the pleasure they are going to give the recipients. They send a cheque to the company name, nothing offensive, er, Bobbie's Bits or something, for twenty-five. You put these in the bank for two weeks and let them clear. Now this is the clever bit. Then you send back the cheques for twenty-five pounds from the real company name, Arse Tickler's Faggot Fan Club, saying sorry, we couldn't get the supply from America, they have sold out. Now you see how many of the people cash those cheques; not a single soul, because who wants his bank manager to know he tickles arses when he is not paying in cheques! There is a long pause while BACON considers this.
BACON: . . . no, five days?
TOM: . . . no, five days?
BACON: . . . no, five days?
TOM: INT. DOG'S HOUSE - DAY We see the back of a head.
SOAP: INT. DOG'S HOUSE - DAY We see the back of a head.
DOG: INT. JD'S BAR - DAY Soap is finishing off his suggestion for raising money.
PLANK: INT. JD'S BAR - DAY Soap is finishing off his suggestion for raising money.
DOG: INT. JD'S BAR - DAY Soap is finishing off his suggestion for raising money.
PLANK: INT. JD'S BAR - DAY Soap is finishing off his suggestion for raising money.
SOAP: Pause. BACON and Tom frown at Soap.
TOM: Bacon's sound inspired.
PLANK: They're just good at growing weed, that's all, and business has got bigger than what they can keep up with.
SOAP: INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - DAY Listen, they can't be all stupid if they got a container load of cash sitting in shoe boxes, a skip-load of Class A gear and you don't think there is anybody sensible involved. We reach the end of our track. Ed's head is on a pitiful angle in full close-up. It straightens and his dark eyes widen immediately on this INT. DOG'S HOUSE - DAY What about security?
BACON: INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - DAY Listen, they can't be all stupid if they got a container load of cash sitting in shoe boxes, a skip-load of Class A gear and you don't think there is anybody sensible involved. We reach the end of our track. Ed's head is on a pitiful angle in full close-up. It straightens and his dark eyes widen immediately on this INT. DOG'S HOUSE - DAY What about security?
DOG: Listen, they can't be all stupid if they got a container load of cash sitting in shoe boxes, a skip-load of Class A gear and you don't think there is anybody sensible involved. We reach the end of our track. Ed's head is on a pitiful angle in full close-up. It straightens and his dark eyes widen immediately on this INT. DOG'S HOUSE - DAY What about security?
DOG: What about security?
PLANK: suspicious. Everybody who goes there are toffs. They're all into that karma crap: `If I don't harm nobody, nobody harms me' stuff.
DOG: suspicious. Everybody who goes there are toffs. They're all into that karma crap: `If I don't harm nobody, nobody harms me' stuff.
PLANK: suspicious. Everybody who goes there are toffs. They're all into that karma crap: `If I don't harm nobody, nobody harms me' stuff.
DOG: they're gutless faggots.
PLANK: they're gutless faggots.
HATCHET: Is Big Chris on his way?
BARRY: That's a lot of money for Chris to be running after. I wouldn't trust him to bring it back here. Hatchet's speech is laced with cut-aways of Big Chris in action, and on the ascent ( with Little Chris ) of Hatchet's stairs.
HATCHET: What do you know about Chris, eh? You put Big Chris on a job and he will make sure it gets done, no matter what's in his way. His dad used to collect debts and his dad before that, and that monster of a boy will after he has gone. It seems that the Almighty himself requested them to collect debts for eternity and not to fear knocking on old Nick's door himself, if he was behind on his payment. But he has never nicked a picker in his life. Straight as an arrow and as strong as the bow that fired it. If you dropped your tenner he would search till he found ya . . . the only problem is he isn't stable, has a temper like a runaway train, and he hits twice as hard. Heaven protect anyone who touches that boy, not that the boy needs protecting. We see Big Chris walking up the stairs. He reaches the top and knocks on the door.
HATCHET: Want a drink?
BARRY: LITTLE CHRIS Piss off you nonce!
LITTLE CHRIS: Piss off you nonce!
BIG CHRIS: Oi, watch it! No thanks Harry, we are both all right. Nice shooter.
HATCHET: BIG CHRIS Nah, not my thing, thank you, Harry. Business good? I imagine that's what I am here for. Harry leans the gun against the side of the desk and takes a seat, does a breast-stroke movement to clear his desk of all the sexual debris, takes a big breath of air and begins.
BIG CHRIS: Nah, not my thing, thank you, Harry. Business good? I imagine that's what I am here for. Harry leans the gun against the side of the desk and takes a seat, does a breast-stroke movement to clear his desk of all the sexual debris, takes a big breath of air and begins.
HATCHET: I want you to forget about any other debts at the moment; there are fresher fish to fry!
BIG CHRIS: Go on.
HATCHET: It's a bit of a priority. Four young fellas who got in deeper than they could handle; they owe me half a million pounds.
LITTLE CHRIS: How much?
TOM: I hope I won't need to. I got a plan. So listen carefully.
J: have any idea about the hard currency we've accumulated. We can just slice it off the top.
WINSTON: lunatic. If he gets the slightest inkling that we are not throwing straight dice, you - and fuck it, me - are going to know what the sharp side of a kebab knife feels like. CHARLES Come on, we are in this for the cash however it comes. The phone rings. Winston picks it up. Cut from completed film.
WINSTON: INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - NIGHT The situation has been explained. There are thoughtful frowns on all foreheads. There is a pause.
DAISY: INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - NIGHT The situation has been explained. There are thoughtful frowns on all foreheads. There is a pause.
WINSTON: INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - NIGHT The situation has been explained. There are thoughtful frowns on all foreheads. There is a pause.
DAISY: INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - NIGHT The situation has been explained. There are thoughtful frowns on all foreheads. There is a pause.
WINSTON: INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - NIGHT The situation has been explained. There are thoughtful frowns on all foreheads. There is a pause.
SOAP: Pause while this is digested. I know it sounds a bit heavy, but it's not like you are doing anything They don't look all that.
EDDY: Pause while this is digested. I know it sounds a bit heavy, but it's not like you are doing anything They don't look all that.
BACON: They don't look all that.
EDDY: They don't look all that.
TOM: They don't look all that.
EDDY: They don't look all that.
SOAP: Hitler didn't look all that.
EDDY: silver spoon. If you can think of another way to get out, let me know. It's not like we've got all the time in the world either . . . Dig? Silence falls over them.]
BACON: I am game.
TOM: Me too.
S0AP: Oh, god!
EDDY: prepared for them. Pause as Ed's voice drops a little. And they are armed.
SOAP: you think they will be armed with? Guns, you tit!
EDDY: you think they will be armed with? Guns, you tit!
SOAP: safest job in the world, now it's turning in to a bad day in Bosnia . .
EDDY: And what exactly?
SOAP: And what exactly?
EDDY: he will still be carrying when he comes back from the job.
SOAP: he will still be carrying when he comes back from the job.
EDDY: he will still be carrying when he comes back from the job.
SOAP: brother of all fuck-ups?
TOM: difference, they are still fucking guns, and they still fire fucking 72 ~ 73 Soap, if you got a better idea to get five hundred grand in the next few days you let us know . . . In the meantime, Tom, speak to Nick the Bubble about moving the weed.
SOAP: difference, they are still fucking guns, and they still fire fucking 72 ~ 73 Soap, if you got a better idea to get five hundred grand in the next few days you let us know . . . In the meantime, Tom, speak to Nick the Bubble about moving the weed.
EDDY: Soap, if you got a better idea to get five hundred grand in the next few days you let us know . . . In the meantime, Tom, speak to Nick the Bubble about moving the weed.
NICK: let alone move shit.
TOM: let alone move shit.
NICK: on and burning bright for the masses.
TOM: on and burning bright for the masses.
NICK: You'll need samples, Tom.
TOM: No can do.
NICK: Where's that? A place near Katmandu? Meet me half way, mate.
TOM: It's what?
NICK: It's what?
TOM: Kosher as Christmas
NICK: Jews don't celebrate Christmas, Tom.
TOM: sawn-off shotguns.
NICK: Who do you think I am?
TOM: INT. RORY BREAKER'S OFFICE - DAY There's a cacophony of seventies funk and football filling the room. We meet Rory Breaker. Rory is a very well-dressed cool-looking black dude. He is in his own way sophisticated, considering what he does for a living. His help, however, are less well-informed. Rory has Nick the Greek in front of him.
RORY: what he says it is, I'll give him three and a half thousand a key, that's if it is what he says it is. I don't want to see it after a sample, I don't want to touch it after a sample. I'll leave you in the capable hands of Nathan here. He will work out the details, but let me get this straight. If the milk turns out to be sour, I ain't the kind of pussy who will drink it. Know what I mean?
BARRY: Gary ignores this question.
DEAN: going back to post offices and cars.
BARRY: Barry is looking with same concern for the hammer-lock Purdeys.
DEAN: There were two old guns there; where are they?
BARRY: There were two old guns there; where are they?
DEAN: There were two old guns there; where are they?
BARRY: There were two old guns there; where are they?
DEAN: muskets the butler was carrying; they were ours, and we sold 'em!
BARRY: I am not fucking interested. Shouting. If you don't want to end up counting the fingers that you haven't got, or sharing a bed with the anti-Christ, I suggest you get those guns, quick.
DEAN: I am not fucking interested. Shouting. If you don't want to end up counting the fingers that you haven't got, or sharing a bed with the anti-Christ, I suggest you get those guns, quick.
BARRY: I am not fucking interested. Shouting. If you don't want to end up counting the fingers that you haven't got, or sharing a bed with the anti-Christ, I suggest you get those guns, quick.
TOM: get them from?
NICK: or do whatever you said to do. Either way you still get the desired aren't they? I might get laughed at. How much do you want for these they're antiques, but I ain't paying antique prices. Pause. And they're a bit long, aren't they?
TOM: aren't they? I might get laughed at. How much do you want for these they're antiques, but I ain't paying antique prices. Pause. And they're a bit long, aren't they?
NICK: they're antiques, but I ain't paying antique prices. Pause. And they're a bit long, aren't they?
TOM: they're antiques, but I ain't paying antique prices. Pause. And they're a bit long, aren't they?
NICK: I don't want anybody blowing a raspberry at me either. I want to look fucking mean.
TOM: I don't want anybody blowing a raspberry at me either. I want to look fucking mean.
NICK: weed man?
TOM: weed man?
NICK: INT. JD'S BAR - NIGHT We are looking directly at JD's shell-shocked face. He gently lays down an empty glass on the bar.
HATCHET: how this can be resolved by the good father. Big Chris in completed film. Pause. The camera spins round to reveal Hatchet and Barry the Baptist.
JD: from a hoodwink. This bar is mine, and he has nothing to do with it.
HATCHET: from a hoodwink. This bar is mine, and he has nothing to do with it.
JD: from a hoodwink. This bar is mine, and he has nothing to do with it.
HATCHET: from a hoodwink. This bar is mine, and he has nothing to do with it.
JD: from a hoodwink. This bar is mine, and he has nothing to do with it.
HATCHET: from a hoodwink. This bar is mine, and he has nothing to do with it.
JD: from a hoodwink. This bar is mine, and he has nothing to do with it.
HATCHET: being able to sustain your son's life.
JD: not to put too fine a point on it, fuck yourself, Harry! Barry pulls a kind of mock-scared face and clutches his heart.
HATCHET: We crash-zoom again into Harry's eyes to see the pupils contract. It's time to look mean. I'll put that down to shock, but only once, only once can or will I let you get away with that. Your son's still got three days to find half a million, but make up your mind which one you prefer: your son, or your We have a slow-motion close-up of the drink being slammed down, proving a point.
PLANK: is going to be easy, you're a dick. It may be easier than most but it's not going to be easy.
DOG: is going to be easy, you're a dick. It may be easier than most but it's not going to be easy.
DOG: ( Points at Paul ) We use your van. It's up some stairs this place, so we'll stick out like balls on a bulldog. Plank is going up first. There is a cage but it is never locked, is it Plank?
PLANK: rest of us in. We'll get nasty with a couple of them, shit 'em up, scare and gag 'em. I can't see these wankers giving us a problem, but they might have a couple of tools hanging around like any cowboy. When the job is done we'll come straight back here. It's dark by then, unload and Robert's your father's brother. Everybody savvy?
DOG: rest of us in. We'll get nasty with a couple of them, shit 'em up, scare and gag 'em. I can't see these wankers giving us a problem, but they might have a couple of tools hanging around like any cowboy. When the job is done we'll come straight back here. It's dark by then, unload and Robert's your father's brother. Everybody savvy?
ALL TOGETHER: don't get out of bed till midday, lowest ebb and all that, and that's how I like it.
DOG: don't get out of bed till midday, lowest ebb and all that, and that's how I like it.
BACON: So no messing around tonight. We leave eight a.m., OK?
DOG: So no messing around tonight. We leave eight a.m., OK?
EDDY: INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - NIGHT Where did you get those from, a museum?
BACON: INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - NIGHT Where did you get those from, a museum?
SOAP: Where did you get those from, a museum?
TOM: could do more harm than good.
BACON: could do more harm than good.
TOM: could do more harm than good.
SOAP: could do more harm than good.
BACON: got two real guns . . . apparently that's what they are. We find a good place to hide next door. When it sounds like the right time, we jack in the box, look nasty and stuff, cocoon them in gaffer tape, then we nick their van and swap the gear into a new van and then bring it back here. As long as we are all out of our hiding places quickly, it's the last thing they'll expect. If Tom and anyone else feels like kicking them around a bit I am sure it won't do any harm. A bit of pain never hurt any one ( thinking about it ) if you know what I mean . . . Also, I think knives are a good idea, you know, big fuck-off shiny knives, the ones that look like they could skin a crocodile. Knives are good because they don't make any noise, and the less noise the more we're likely to use them. That'll shit 'em up and make us look like pros. There is a pause as they look at Soap with suspicion.
TOM: got two real guns . . . apparently that's what they are. We find a good place to hide next door. When it sounds like the right time, we jack in the box, look nasty and stuff, cocoon them in gaffer tape, then we nick their van and swap the gear into a new van and then bring it back here. As long as we are all out of our hiding places quickly, it's the last thing they'll expect. If Tom and anyone else feels like kicking them around a bit I am sure it won't do any harm. A bit of pain never hurt any one ( thinking about it ) if you know what I mean . . . Also, I think knives are a good idea, you know, big fuck-off shiny knives, the ones that look like they could skin a crocodile. Knives are good because they don't make any noise, and the less noise the more we're likely to use them. That'll shit 'em up and make us look like pros. There is a pause as they look at Soap with suspicion.
EDDY: got two real guns . . . apparently that's what they are. We find a good place to hide next door. When it sounds like the right time, we jack in the box, look nasty and stuff, cocoon them in gaffer tape, then we nick their van and swap the gear into a new van and then bring it back here. As long as we are all out of our hiding places quickly, it's the last thing they'll expect. If Tom and anyone else feels like kicking them around a bit I am sure it won't do any harm. A bit of pain never hurt any one ( thinking about it ) if you know what I mean . . . Also, I think knives are a good idea, you know, big fuck-off shiny knives, the ones that look like they could skin a crocodile. Knives are good because they don't make any noise, and the less noise the more we're likely to use them. That'll shit 'em up and make us look like pros. There is a pause as they look at Soap with suspicion.
SOAP: got two real guns . . . apparently that's what they are. We find a good place to hide next door. When it sounds like the right time, we jack in the box, look nasty and stuff, cocoon them in gaffer tape, then we nick their van and swap the gear into a new van and then bring it back here. As long as we are all out of our hiding places quickly, it's the last thing they'll expect. If Tom and anyone else feels like kicking them around a bit I am sure it won't do any harm. A bit of pain never hurt any one ( thinking about it ) if you know what I mean . . . Also, I think knives are a good idea, you know, big fuck-off shiny knives, the ones that look like they could skin a crocodile. Knives are good because they don't make any noise, and the less noise the more we're likely to use them. That'll shit 'em up and make us look like pros. There is a pause as they look at Soap with suspicion.
TOM: INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - MORNING Ed and Bacon, etc, are all mounted up on top of one another looking out a crack in the curtain. They are observing Dog's party en route to work. They are dressed as kebab shop assistants.
BACON: INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - MORNING Ed and Bacon, etc, are all mounted up on top of one another looking out a crack in the curtain. They are observing Dog's party en route to work. They are dressed as kebab shop assistants.
SOAP: INT. DOG'S HOUSE ( VAN ) - MORNING Dog and troop load up.
EDDY: INT. DOG'S HOUSE ( VAN ) - MORNING Dog and troop load up.
TOM: INT. DOG'S HOUSE ( VAN ) - MORNING Dog and troop load up.
WINSTON: should have got somewhere by now. The gear and the money has got to be out of here before twelve. The horn blasts. Who's that? J, don't you dare open the door until you use that cage. I am serious, and find out who it is first.
J: Hello, can I help you?
PLANK: INT SLOANES' SITTING ROOM - DAY ( Whispering inside. ) Look Willie, it's Plank outside asking for you, he says it's in our WILLIAM Jesus, he's OK; he knows only to buy weights now, so we are looking at least a couple of thou; just one last time.
J: INT SLOANES' SITTING ROOM - DAY ( Whispering inside. ) Look Willie, it's Plank outside asking for you, he says it's in our WILLIAM Jesus, he's OK; he knows only to buy weights now, so we are looking at least a couple of thou; just one last time.
PLANK: INT SLOANES' SITTING ROOM - DAY ( Whispering inside. ) Look Willie, it's Plank outside asking for you, he says it's in our WILLIAM Jesus, he's OK; he knows only to buy weights now, so we are looking at least a couple of thou; just one last time.
J: INT SLOANES' SITTING ROOM - DAY ( Whispering inside. ) Look Willie, it's Plank outside asking for you, he says it's in our WILLIAM Jesus, he's OK; he knows only to buy weights now, so we are looking at least a couple of thou; just one last time.
PLANK: INT SLOANES' SITTING ROOM - DAY ( Whispering inside. ) Look Willie, it's Plank outside asking for you, he says it's in our WILLIAM Jesus, he's OK; he knows only to buy weights now, so we are looking at least a couple of thou; just one last time.
J: INT SLOANES' SITTING ROOM - DAY ( Whispering inside. ) Look Willie, it's Plank outside asking for you, he says it's in our WILLIAM Jesus, he's OK; he knows only to buy weights now, so we are looking at least a couple of thou; just one last time.
PLANK: INT SLOANES' SITTING ROOM - DAY ( Whispering inside. ) Look Willie, it's Plank outside asking for you, he says it's in our WILLIAM Jesus, he's OK; he knows only to buy weights now, so we are looking at least a couple of thou; just one last time.
J: ( Whispering inside. ) Look Willie, it's Plank outside asking for you, he says it's in our WILLIAM Jesus, he's OK; he knows only to buy weights now, so we are looking at least a couple of thou; just one last time.
WINSTON: WILLIAM Jesus, he's OK; he knows only to buy weights now, so we are looking at least a couple of thou; just one last time.
WILLIAM: WILLIAM Jesus, he's OK; he knows only to buy weights now, so we are looking at least a couple of thou; just one last time.
J: WILLIAM Jesus, he's OK; he knows only to buy weights now, so we are looking at least a couple of thou; just one last time.
J: otherwise he will be here all day, and get rid of him quick. We have work to do.
WINSTON: otherwise he will be here all day, and get rid of him quick. We have work to do.
DOG: What the fuck is going on?
MICK: ( Whispering ) What's going on?
DOG: ( Whispering ) What's going on?
PLANK: Starting to get anxious that the whole deal could be off Plank looks down the stairs and waves at Dog as some kind of reassurance.
J: All right, just coming. J unlocks the door after getting the cage ready. There's an external door, and then a small corridor before the cage. J is inside the cage. Two, or at a push, three people could fit in this space before they would be poking out on the outside world.
PLANK: Lives and learns doesn't one. Then devastation slaps him hard. Keep the gates locked now, do you?
J: Lives and learns doesn't one. Then devastation slaps him hard. Keep the gates locked now, do you?
PLANK: Lives and learns doesn't one. Then devastation slaps him hard. Keep the gates locked now, do you?
J: ( Suddenly turning very nasty whispering. ) Now shut it. You say a fucking word the right knee goes, another word then your left.
PLANK: ( Suddenly turning very nasty whispering. ) Now shut it. You say a fucking word the right knee goes, another word then your left.
J: What are you doing, Plank?
PLANK: gate. Oi! I said unlock that fucking gate. J has found it all too much and has passed out with fear, collapsing on the floor in an awkward contorted position. Plank is desperately trying to find the right key. Things are not going as well as planned. Dog, in the meantime, has decided it's time to start the show
DOG: Go! Go! Go! Fucking run, you two. They all go charging into the open door only to slam straight into Plank. The keys go flying out of Plank's hands and through the cage. Plank cries with frustration, reaching out with his hand to retrieve them. Dog, finding the gate locked, is none too happy They are also still exposed to the eyes of the world due to the lack of space between the outside door and the inside cage.
DOG: The fucking gate's shut, you prick.
PLANK: Having clawed them back with the end of his shotgun.
DOG: What the fuck did you do to Fauntleroy?
PLANK: I didn't touch him, he just passed out.
WINSTON: ( Realising ) Get the rifle out, Charles. We're being fucked.
DOG: Plank is busy fumbling about, not really getting anywhere because of the pressure being applied.
PLANK: It must be this one.
DOG: The gun with which Plank has been entrusted is pointing straight at Dog's groin. Point your gun in there, dick, not at me. Mick has unwrapped his gun from his case. Dog turns and looks amazed at the size of the weapon. What the fuck is that?
MICK: Pop! We hear the sound of an air gun pellet hitting the bars.
DOG: Pop! We hear the sound of an air gun pellet hitting the bars.
PLANK: Don't you stags move or I'll kill the lot of ya.
DOG: Who are you going to kill Plank? There's no one there. We hear another pop and Plank gets shot in the neck. This understarulably sends him into a real panic, thinking this is curtains.
PLANK: They shot me! Panic unashamedly exposing itself. Trickles of blood start flowing from in-between Plank's fingers.
DOG: Well shoot them. Plank shoots at everything and nothing. Smoke fills the corridor, leaving them in a cloud. A bit of coughing goes on, then silence.
JOHN: bloody thing. Pop! Another pellet is fired hitting John in the chest. Ah, Jesus, shit, I've been shot!
DOG: down John, you cock, patch yourself up; it's only a fucking air rifle. Dog is interrupted by an enormously loud blast of machine-gun fire. Dog and the boys panic, cover their ears and hit the floor. After this outburst Dog looks up at Mick and sees he is the culprit. Mick looks down at Dog expecting a congratulatory nod from Dog; he doesn't get it. What the fuck was that?
MICK: 94 . ~ 95 He speaks softly but he is quite shaken. He then raises his voice; he has had enough of all this mincing. Right fellas! He shouts to the Sloanes while dragging the semi-conscious body of J up to use as a shield. Before I go any further I am going to shoot your mate's toes off! No sooner said than done; his toes go. The smoke problem repeats itself and J faints again, but an unfazed Dog continues. Now if you want us to be gone in two minutes, open the fucking gate, INT. SLOANES' SITTING ROOM - DAY did to his toes.
DOG: He speaks softly but he is quite shaken. He then raises his voice; he has had enough of all this mincing. Right fellas! He shouts to the Sloanes while dragging the semi-conscious body of J up to use as a shield. Before I go any further I am going to shoot your mate's toes off! No sooner said than done; his toes go. The smoke problem repeats itself and J faints again, but an unfazed Dog continues. Now if you want us to be gone in two minutes, open the fucking gate, INT. SLOANES' SITTING ROOM - DAY did to his toes.
CHARLES: did to his toes.
WINSTON: did to his toes.
DOG: Right, his leg's going now.
WINSTON: ( Turning and whispering ) Willie, he doesn't know you are here, just sort something out, OK. Willie slinks off with a `like what?' look on his face.
DOG: Yeah, one of them's out.
WINSTON: Yeah, one of them's out.
DOG: Yeah, one of them's out.
WINSTON: Yeah, one of them's out.
DOG: Yeah, one of them's out.
PLANK: Yeah, one of them's out.
DOG: No sooner said than done. Dog hits one straight on Winston's forehead with the butt of his gun and drags him to the stairs. 97
PLANK: Dog opens them. There is nothing in them. If looks could kill Plank would be pushing up daisies.
DOG: This is done on a walky talky.
WINSTON: This is done on a walky talky.
DOG: This is done on a walky talky.
WINSTON: This is done on a walky talky.
MICK: This is done on a walky talky.
WINSTON: This is done on a walky talky.
MICK: This is done on a walky talky.
WINSTON: This is done on a walky talky.
MICK: This is done on a walky talky.
DOG: This is done on a walky talky.
DOG: Give us your knife. Dog is going to put an end to this screaming and is making his way to its source. William is silenced through fear of the approaching Dog and slumps on the floor in a silenced wreck, holding a bleeding hand. ( the point of the blade resting on William's throat ) Enough! Mick, how you doing?
MICK: Dog's attention is diverted as he sees a table full of cash, neatly packed and stacked. PAUL ( in doorway visibly shocked Gordon Bennett! What's been going on in here?
DOG: this all in the van.
PAUL: this all in the van.
DOG: EXT. SLOANES' HOUSE - DAY A traffic warden appears as Paul goes outside to load up.
TRAFFIC WARDEN: move it for you.
PAUL: TRAFFIC WARDEN Paul, realising that persuasion is futile, decides other means are necessary to despatch this nuisance. He looks down both sides of the street: the coast is clear.
TRAFFIC WARDEN: Paul, realising that persuasion is futile, decides other means are necessary to despatch this nuisance. He looks down both sides of the street: the coast is clear.
PAUL: TRAFFIC WARDEN TRAFFIC WARDEN Having made their way to the rear of the van, Paul opens the back doors. Paul smacks the traffic warden on the side of the head. The momentum carries the warden into the van, unconscious. Paul has another quick look round and Lifts the warden's legs up and pushes him deeper into the vehicle.
TRAFFIC WARDEN: TRAFFIC WARDEN Having made their way to the rear of the van, Paul opens the back doors. Paul smacks the traffic warden on the side of the head. The momentum carries the warden into the van, unconscious. Paul has another quick look round and Lifts the warden's legs up and pushes him deeper into the vehicle.
PAUL: TRAFFIC WARDEN Having made their way to the rear of the van, Paul opens the back doors. Paul smacks the traffic warden on the side of the head. The momentum carries the warden into the van, unconscious. Paul has another quick look round and Lifts the warden's legs up and pushes him deeper into the vehicle.
TRAFFIC WARDEN: Having made their way to the rear of the van, Paul opens the back doors. Paul smacks the traffic warden on the side of the head. The momentum carries the warden into the van, unconscious. Paul has another quick look round and Lifts the warden's legs up and pushes him deeper into the vehicle.
PAUL: Having made their way to the rear of the van, Paul opens the back doors. Paul smacks the traffic warden on the side of the head. The momentum carries the warden into the van, unconscious. Paul has another quick look round and Lifts the warden's legs up and pushes him deeper into the vehicle.
PLANK: ( Dog shows no sign of pity ) That's the last bag?
DOG: How about you? All right?
MICK: machete that was used to disable him and puts down the machine gun.
DOG: Gloria, who has been forgotten by the Sloanes and unnoticed by Dog and troop, has sat through the whole episode without apparently realising the gravity of the situation. She is kick-started into action by the sure demise of Willie. The machine gun has been placed not too far away from her. She picks it up, and fires it into the already wounded body of Mick, who is almost instantaneously transformed into dog meat. Gloria, who has found a gear that nobody probably not even herself, knew existed, destroys everything she points at. Bodies jump for cover and Winston and the rest close their eyes and hope for the best. Eventually the gun, which seems to have a limitless supply of lead, goes quiet. We cut to close-ups of everybody opening their eyes cautiously. Looks of relief come from everyone, not least the Sloanes. Dog, who is closest, stands, walks straight up to her and punches her on the jaw Gloria is knocked out. What was that? Where did she come from? That's fucking it. Tie her up. We are getting out of here.
BACON: BACON forces one of the windows open. He looks pleased and beckons the others over. They keep in contact with Soap by cellular phones.
EDDY: Right as rain.
TOM: Right as rain.
EDDY: Ed looks into an almost empty room in which they are to find cover. He shrugs, and goes to sort himself out a cup of tea.
SOAP: Do you want one?
EDDY: Do you want one?
SOAP: INT. DOG'S VAN - DAY Dog turns to admire a full van.
EDDY: INT. DOG'S VAN - DAY Dog turns to admire a full van.
SOAP: INT. DOG'S VAN - DAY Dog turns to admire a full van.
EDDY: INT. DOG'S VAN - DAY Dog turns to admire a full van.
TRAFFIC WARDEN: Dog turns around and sees the tragic warden.
DOG: What's he doing in the van? Dog and the others look at the tragic warden mercilessly
PAUL: What's he doing in the van? Dog and the others look at the tragic warden mercilessly
DOG: What's he doing in the van? Dog and the others look at the tragic warden mercilessly
PAUL: Paul hits him again, sending him back into unconsciousness.
DOG: EXT. DOG'S HOUSE - DAY Tom is on the mobile phone.
TOM: INT. DOG'S HOUSE - DAY Dog opens his door, enters the front room, dumps his two bags down and is met by a bleeding Plank ( who is grunted at ) and John, who is rubbing his chest. Dog sighs and turns to get more bags. The action starts. It's hard to tell who is who because of the balaclavas. The lads jump out of their positions.
BACON: This is like d??vu. There is no response as the three of them seem not to believe what's going on. BACON hits Dog with the butt of his gun, establishing who's boss. Dog does down with a thud. Plank hits the floor immediately.
EDDY: keys without any trouble.
DOG: keys without any trouble.
BACON: keys without any trouble.
EDDY: INT. DOG'S VAN - DAY There is silence. For a few seconds all we can hear is the noise of their breathing.
TOM: god knows how much of this stinking weed; we've got a shit load of cash; and we've got a . . . traffic warden.
SOAP: god knows how much of this stinking weed; we've got a shit load of cash; and we've got a . . . traffic warden.
EDDY: god knows how much of this stinking weed; we've got a shit load of cash; and we've got a . . . traffic warden.
BACON: god knows how much of this stinking weed; we've got a shit load of cash; and we've got a . . . traffic warden.
TOM: He holds up the hat.
BACON: He holds up the hat.
TOM: What did they want with a traffic warden?
BACON: What did they want with a traffic warden?
EDDY: INT. HATCHET HARRY'S OFFICE - DAY the day and mum seems to be the word, and I can't have that now, can I, BIG CHRIS INT. DOG'S HOUSE - DAY Dog struggles free and unravels the tape from his head and gets the other three out.
HATCHET: the day and mum seems to be the word, and I can't have that now, can I, BIG CHRIS INT. DOG'S HOUSE - DAY Dog struggles free and unravels the tape from his head and gets the other three out.
BIG CHRIS: INT. DOG'S HOUSE - DAY Dog struggles free and unravels the tape from his head and gets the other three out.
DOG: find 'em. Of course I'll find 'em. I don't give a flying fucking fish who they think they are. I'll kill - fur and feathers, burning wheel South African style, kebab 'em, peel 'em, slice 'em and dice ' em, hang draw and fucking quarter ' em.
EDDY: going to look. Anyway the battle's over and the war is won. Ed passes a handful of grass to Tom. Tom, take this to Nick, and let's get rid of it, quick.
SOAP: going to look. Anyway the battle's over and the war is won. Ed passes a handful of grass to Tom. Tom, take this to Nick, and let's get rid of it, quick.
EDDY: going to look. Anyway the battle's over and the war is won. Ed passes a handful of grass to Tom. Tom, take this to Nick, and let's get rid of it, quick.
LENNY: he wants and you know that's a good price.
RORY: he wants and you know that's a good price.
NICK: he wants and you know that's a good price.
RORY BREAKER: am not mistaken. Turns back to the TV. I'll take it tomorrow for half price. If he wants to move it quick he'll take it. Now, I've got another game coming up in a minute so if you would be kind enough. Pointing at the door. Nick exits. Lenny, take this to Snow White and the three little chemists; they should have a gander at this. I want a proper opinion. 110
LENNY: INT. SLOANES' SITTING ROOM - NIGHT Winston is tied up and squirming.
NATHAN: INT. SLOANES' SITTING ROOM - NIGHT Winston is tied up and squirming.
LENNY: INT. SLOANES' SITTING ROOM - NIGHT Winston is tied up and squirming.
NATHAN: INT. SLOANES' SITTING ROOM - NIGHT Winston is tied up and squirming.
NATHAN: Winston is tied up and squirming.
WINSTON: INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - NIGHT Pushing a massive pile of notes to one side.
EDDY: Pushing a massive pile of notes to one side.
SOAP: Passes Ed the joint.
TOM: Passes Ed the joint.
SOAP: Passes Ed the joint.
BACON: Passes Ed the joint.
EDDY: and get drunk now, please?
WINSTON: shot; it was a right mess. The gravity and reality dawns on Rory.
RORY: We shot one of them in the throat.
LENNY: We shot one of them in the throat.
WINSTON: We shot one of them in the throat.
RORY: if I don't get the gear back. He pauses, rubs his forehead and continues, slightly calmer. You shot the one that's in there now?
WINSTON: No, another one.
RORY: There is an embarrassed pause and a look of `how did you know?' Rory doesn't need an answer and slaps his forehead.
WINSTON: There is an embarrassed pause and a look of `how did you know?' Rory doesn't need an answer and slaps his forehead.
RORY: There is an embarrassed pause and a look of `how did you know?' Rory doesn't need an answer and slaps his forehead.
WINSTON: You don't say. There is a pause while Rory searches for the right words. The silence is deafening.
RORY: You don't say. There is a pause while Rory searches for the right words. The silence is deafening.
LENNY: Who could it be? Where do we start, Rory? Rory looks up amazed.
RORY: coincidence? Not many, Benny! This white shite steals my goods and then thinks it is a good idea to sell it back to me. They got less brains than you, Lenny . . . Get Nick cum-bubble round here now if he is stupid enough to still be on this planet.
DOG: it with 'em.
JOHN: it with 'em.
DOG: that is good enough for me. And after you strip the house, I want you to get every thieving slag this side of Ceylon and torture them, badly. I want to know who is responsible, otherwise I will hold you INT. JD'S BAR - NIGHT All kinds of characters have made an appearance. A game of cards is in motion, the forfeit now being alcohol. Barfly Jack the barman is sitting at the table. They are already on the road to being comfortably BARFLY JACK This next section is subtitled. This is to keep everyone, even those familiar with cockney rhyming slang up to speed with the narration, of which even Tom is unsure. As with the police scene earlier this is a voice-over and we cut to the relevant scenes.
TOM: BARFLY JACK This next section is subtitled. This is to keep everyone, even those familiar with cockney rhyming slang up to speed with the narration, of which even Tom is unsure. As with the police scene earlier this is a voice-over and we cut to the relevant scenes.
BARFLY JACK: This next section is subtitled. This is to keep everyone, even those familiar with cockney rhyming slang up to speed with the narration, of which even Tom is unsure. As with the police scene earlier this is a voice-over and we cut to the relevant scenes.
BARFLYJACK: Rory's got few interests in life; darky music, football, bees and honey and kicking the shit out of anyone that interferes with that shortlist. A few nights ago Rory's Roger iron rusted, so he has gone to the battle-cruiser to watch the end of a football game. Nobody is watching the custard so he has turned the channel over. A fat man's north opens and he wanders up and turns the Liza over. `Now fuck off and watch it somewhere else.' Rory knows claret is imminent, but he doesn't want to miss the end of the game; so, calm as a coma, he stands and picks up a fire extinguisher and he walks straight past the jam rolls who are ready for action, then he plonks it outside the entrance. He then orders an Aristotle of the most ping pong oddly in the nuclear sub and switches back to his footer. `That's fucking it,' says the man. Rory gobs out a mouthful of booze covering fatty; he flicks a flaming match into his bird's nest and the man lit up like a leaking gas pipe. Rory, unfazed, turned back to watch his game. The flaming man and his chinos ran outside to extinguish the flames, and Rory cheered on. His team won too, four-nil.
RORY: soon-to-be-dead friends thought they might be able to steal my gear? And then sell it back to me? Is this a declaration of war? Is this some sort of white cunts' joke that black cunts don't get? 'Cos I am not fucking laughing, Nik-ol-as.
NICK: soon-to-be-dead friends thought they might be able to steal my gear? And then sell it back to me? Is this a declaration of war? Is this some sort of white cunts' joke that black cunts don't get? 'Cos I am not fucking laughing, Nik-ol-as.
RORY: soon-to-be-dead friends thought they might be able to steal my gear? And then sell it back to me? Is this a declaration of war? Is this some sort of white cunts' joke that black cunts don't get? 'Cos I am not fucking laughing, Nik-ol-as.
NICK: annihilation of anybody who interferes with that shortlist . . . I know you couldn't have known my position because you're not so fucking stupid that if you did know, you would turn up here scratching your arse, with that `what's going on here' look slapped on your Chevy Chase. But what you do know is where these people live. We look at the white faced Nick. He doesn't open his mouth. The penny has dropped. If you hold anything back, I'll kill you. If you bend the truth, or if I think you're bending the truth, I'll kill you. If you forget anything, I'll kill you. In fact, you're going to have to work very hard to stay alive, Nick. I hope you understand everything I have said. Because if you don't, I'll kill you. Now, Mr Bubble and Squeak. You may now enlighten me.
RORY: annihilation of anybody who interferes with that shortlist . . . I know you couldn't have known my position because you're not so fucking stupid that if you did know, you would turn up here scratching your arse, with that `what's going on here' look slapped on your Chevy Chase. But what you do know is where these people live. We look at the white faced Nick. He doesn't open his mouth. The penny has dropped. If you hold anything back, I'll kill you. If you bend the truth, or if I think you're bending the truth, I'll kill you. If you forget anything, I'll kill you. In fact, you're going to have to work very hard to stay alive, Nick. I hope you understand everything I have said. Because if you don't, I'll kill you. Now, Mr Bubble and Squeak. You may now enlighten me.
DOG: could say that in the scale of these things this is the Mount fucking Everest of problems, couldn't you? . . . And the reason it is such a mon fucking-strosity of a problem is because you don't have the first fucking idea who did this to us, do you?
JOHN: could say that in the scale of these things this is the Mount fucking Everest of problems, couldn't you? . . . And the reason it is such a mon fucking-strosity of a problem is because you don't have the first fucking idea who did this to us, do you?
DOG: could say that in the scale of these things this is the Mount fucking Everest of problems, couldn't you? . . . And the reason it is such a mon fucking-strosity of a problem is because you don't have the first fucking idea who did this to us, do you?
PLANK: them all against the wall.
JOHN: Dog starts slapping his troops round their heads.
DOG: prick! You find 'em, you hear? And find 'em quick! Now get out and start looking! Out! Out! Dog Loses his temper and throws Plank across the room. Plank's head breaks effortlessIy through the wall.
BACON: deal, you watch Scarface!
EDDY: selling. It's not worth him giving us trouble; he knows we would be a pain in the arse, and who wants a pain in the arse?
TOM: selling. It's not worth him giving us trouble; he knows we would be a pain in the arse, and who wants a pain in the arse?
SOAP: Hatchet, this deal puts us up near enough two hundred grand each. Not bad for a day's work, I think you will agree.
TOM: Hatchet, this deal puts us up near enough two hundred grand each. Not bad for a day's work, I think you will agree.
SOAP: Hatchet, this deal puts us up near enough two hundred grand each. Not bad for a day's work, I think you will agree.
EDDY: Hatchet, this deal puts us up near enough two hundred grand each. Not bad for a day's work, I think you will agree.
NICK: INT. DEAN'S HOUSE - DAY see them or the guns again. Gary looks at Dean.
DEAN: see them or the guns again. Gary looks at Dean.
NICK: see them or the guns again. Gary looks at Dean.
DEAN: see them or the guns again. Gary looks at Dean.
NICK: see them or the guns again. Gary looks at Dean.
DEAN: see them or the guns again. Gary looks at Dean.
NICK: see them or the guns again. Gary looks at Dean.
DEAN: see them or the guns again. Gary looks at Dean.
NICK: see them or the guns again. Gary looks at Dean.
DEAN: INT. SPLIT SCREEN. HATCHET HARRY'S OFFICE - DAY. Barry is on his mobile, moments later.
BARRY: INT. DEAN'S - DAY because if you don't . . .
DEAN: because if you don't . . .
BARRY: because if you don't . . .
DEAN: Hatchet Harry, infamous for his removal of digits? Dean pauses for a while, a look of concern coming over his face. Well this is `James Bond need to know' time. They're his! When you dance with the devil you wait for the song to stop, know what I mean? Hatchet has had enough. He grabs the phone from Barry's hand, waving the infamous fifteen-inch big black cock in the other hand. Hatchet goes on to put the shits up the Scousers.
BARRY: Hatchet Harry, infamous for his removal of digits? Dean pauses for a while, a look of concern coming over his face. Well this is `James Bond need to know' time. They're his! When you dance with the devil you wait for the song to stop, know what I mean? Hatchet has had enough. He grabs the phone from Barry's hand, waving the infamous fifteen-inch big black cock in the other hand. Hatchet goes on to put the shits up the Scousers.
HATCHET: patience, and patience has gone to the hospital; you are not far behind, know what I mean? I mean, find ' em, torture 'em, kill 'em, and bring back what belongs to me, because if you don't . . . you are . . . bang . . . in trouble. Hatchet slams the phone down. Dean looks at Gary in horror.
GARY: find 'em. Dean dials Nick immediately. No fucking about, Nick; where can I find those guns?
DEAN: find 'em. Dean dials Nick immediately. No fucking about, Nick; where can I find those guns?
GARY: find 'em. Dean dials Nick immediately. No fucking about, Nick; where can I find those guns?
DEAN: find 'em. Dean dials Nick immediately. No fucking about, Nick; where can I find those guns?
JOHN: Count it out the back. I don't want them seeing you fingering that money as soon as they walk in.
DOG: Count it out the back. I don't want them seeing you fingering that money as soon as they walk in.
JOHN: Count it out the back. I don't want them seeing you fingering that money as soon as they walk in.
DOG: Count it out the back. I don't want them seeing you fingering that money as soon as they walk in.
JOHN: ( interrupts ) Give it us here, you dozy sod. You hide and get the guns ready. Wait until they are well in, then give it to 'em.
RORY BREAKER: London illuminated; I want that house painted red. Winston here is coming along, see if he can recognize any of 'em, then we bring what's mine back here. Watch out for these fellas; they've got a bit of arsenal and they don't mind using it. Now you know what you're doing, EXT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - DAY Big Chris and Little Chris are waiting outside. Dog's gang are waiting for Ed's gang inside. Rory's gang are going to Ed's.
PLANK: What the fuck is going on here? Dog's lot are confused as to why these guys appear to have broken into their own home, carrying weapons of mass-destruction and looking to use them. We cut to a close-up of Plank's pov under the sofa. He can see numerous pairs of boots and they are multiplying. At last Plank can't take any more; his finger's shaking too much on the trigger. BANG.'
BIG CHRIS: ( Dog is stunned by this ) Come on, chop chop. Before Dog has a chance to use the shotguns Chris grabs one in each hand and knocks Dog down with a swift headbutt. Dog moans, not knowing what day of the week it is. Chris opens the case, sees it's full of money, takes the two shotguns, then leaves. Thank you very much. On reaching the car he gives the case to his son, putting the guns on the back seat. Count that son, and put your seatbelt on.
DEAN: INT. ED AND BACON'S HOUSE - DAY Ed's place has been shot to pieces. Only Rory and Winston ( in shock ) seem to be left. Rory is throwing the bags of weed into the back of his van, then he kicks over one of the bodies. It's a blood-covered Plank.
RORY BREAKER: Winston nods in confirmation. Lucky, that. Bang' Bang! Plank ( to Rory's surprise ) still had a loaded gun. Rory and Plank despatch each other simultaneously.
TOM: have they got between them?
SOAP: The end of this joke is interrupted by a van swerving past them, dangerously close. The lads lodge a complaint and then they stop outside Ed and Bacon's so that they can pick up the money. Cut from completed film.
TOM: The end of this joke is interrupted by a van swerving past them, dangerously close. The lads lodge a complaint and then they stop outside Ed and Bacon's so that they can pick up the money. Cut from completed film.
SOAP: The end of this joke is interrupted by a van swerving past them, dangerously close. The lads lodge a complaint and then they stop outside Ed and Bacon's so that they can pick up the money. Cut from completed film.
TOM: The end of this joke is interrupted by a van swerving past them, dangerously close. The lads lodge a complaint and then they stop outside Ed and Bacon's so that they can pick up the money. Cut from completed film.
SOAP: The end of this joke is interrupted by a van swerving past them, dangerously close. The lads lodge a complaint and then they stop outside Ed and Bacon's so that they can pick up the money. Cut from completed film.
TOM: The end of this joke is interrupted by a van swerving past them, dangerously close. The lads lodge a complaint and then they stop outside Ed and Bacon's so that they can pick up the money. Cut from completed film.
SOAP: The end of this joke is interrupted by a van swerving past them, dangerously close. The lads lodge a complaint and then they stop outside Ed and Bacon's so that they can pick up the money. Cut from completed film.
TOM: The end of this joke is interrupted by a van swerving past them, dangerously close. The lads lodge a complaint and then they stop outside Ed and Bacon's so that they can pick up the money. Cut from completed film.
BACON: They look into a smoking, blood-covered house.
SOAP: swapped for a pile of corpses.
TOM: swapped for a pile of corpses.
SOAP: panicking and I am off mate.
EDDY: panicking and I am off mate.
BIG CHRIS: JOHN O'DRISCOLL BIG CHRIS That you, Chris?
JOHN O'DRISCOLL: BIG CHRIS That you, Chris?
BIG CHRIS: That you, Chris?
HATCHET: That you, Chris?
HATCHET: He drops a vagina-shaped penis massager, realising that these are the guns he has been after. He then tries desperately to conceal his BIG CHRIS BIG CHRIS BIG CHRIS BIG CHRIS experience it is best to take the opportunity if it is there.
BIG CHRIS: BIG CHRIS BIG CHRIS BIG CHRIS experience it is best to take the opportunity if it is there.
HATCHET: BIG CHRIS BIG CHRIS BIG CHRIS experience it is best to take the opportunity if it is there.
BARRY: BIG CHRIS BIG CHRIS BIG CHRIS experience it is best to take the opportunity if it is there.
BIG CHRIS: BIG CHRIS BIG CHRIS experience it is best to take the opportunity if it is there.
HATCHET: BIG CHRIS BIG CHRIS experience it is best to take the opportunity if it is there.
BIG CHRIS: BIG CHRIS experience it is best to take the opportunity if it is there.
HATCHET: BIG CHRIS experience it is best to take the opportunity if it is there.
BIG CHRIS: experience it is best to take the opportunity if it is there.
HATCHET: Chris exits, pushing his wages into his inside packet. Harry is ecstatic about the guns and starts chuckling to himself.
DEAN: preferable to death by Hatchet.
GARY: preferable to death by Hatchet.
DEAN: preferable to death by Hatchet.
GARY: EXT. ED'S CAR ( STATIC ) - DAY going to call him.
SOAP: going to call him.
EDDY: going to call him.
BACON: about us is different. Pass your phone.
EDDY: about us is different. Pass your phone.
BACON: INT. HATCHET HARRY'S STAIRCASE - DAY The two Scousers with guns in hand creep their way up the stairs. There's only one door in front of them. Dean gets ready to kick it open. Gary leans against the wall and delivers a Professionals-style INT. HATCHET HARRY'S OFFICE - DAY Harry is in his offtce playing with his guns. The phone rings.
HATCHET: It's Ed, if that's what you mean.
EDDY: It's Ed, if that's what you mean.
HATCHET: I wanted to talk to you about that.
EDDY: I wanted to talk to you about that.
HATCHET: which means that some poor sod doesn't. You must have upset a few people, boy . . . but that isn't really my concern, is it? But what does concern me is the guns you had. I want to talk to you about that. Get your arse over here now, and I do mean now!
BACON: Well, what did he say?
EDDY: Well, what did he say?
TOM: Well, what did he say?
EDDY: guns . . . now.
SOAP: should go and see him.
EDDY: should go and see him.
BACON: making sense.
EDDY: They stand outside Hatchet's door and are just about to ring it when Tom notices it's open.
TOM: They stand outside Hatchet's door and are just about to ring it when Tom notices it's open.
TOM: Ed tiptoes over to the bag containing the money.
EDDY: Tom sees his guns. His eyes widen in surprise.
TOM: Tom sees his guns. His eyes widen in surprise.
EDDY: Tom sees his guns. His eyes widen in surprise.
TOM: EXT. HATCHET HARRY'S OFFICE/CHRIS'S CAR - DAY BIG CHRIS As he puts the key in the ignition, there is no reply from his little BIG CHRIS We can't see Dog but we can see the sharp side of a knife resting along the front of Little Chris's throat. The Dog is Lying down in the back. Big Chris assesses the situation.
EDDY: EXT. HATCHET HARRY'S OFFICE/CHRIS'S CAR - DAY BIG CHRIS As he puts the key in the ignition, there is no reply from his little BIG CHRIS We can't see Dog but we can see the sharp side of a knife resting along the front of Little Chris's throat. The Dog is Lying down in the back. Big Chris assesses the situation.
TOM: EXT. HATCHET HARRY'S OFFICE/CHRIS'S CAR - DAY BIG CHRIS As he puts the key in the ignition, there is no reply from his little BIG CHRIS We can't see Dog but we can see the sharp side of a knife resting along the front of Little Chris's throat. The Dog is Lying down in the back. Big Chris assesses the situation.
EDDY: EXT. HATCHET HARRY'S OFFICE/CHRIS'S CAR - DAY BIG CHRIS As he puts the key in the ignition, there is no reply from his little BIG CHRIS We can't see Dog but we can see the sharp side of a knife resting along the front of Little Chris's throat. The Dog is Lying down in the back. Big Chris assesses the situation.
TOM: EXT. HATCHET HARRY'S OFFICE/CHRIS'S CAR - DAY BIG CHRIS As he puts the key in the ignition, there is no reply from his little BIG CHRIS We can't see Dog but we can see the sharp side of a knife resting along the front of Little Chris's throat. The Dog is Lying down in the back. Big Chris assesses the situation.
BIG CHRIS: As he puts the key in the ignition, there is no reply from his little BIG CHRIS We can't see Dog but we can see the sharp side of a knife resting along the front of Little Chris's throat. The Dog is Lying down in the back. Big Chris assesses the situation.
BIG CHRIS: We can't see Dog but we can see the sharp side of a knife resting along the front of Little Chris's throat. The Dog is Lying down in the back. Big Chris assesses the situation.
DOG: We can't see Dog but we can see the sharp side of a knife resting along the front of Little Chris's throat. The Dog is Lying down in the back. Big Chris assesses the situation.
BIG CHRIS: BIG CHRIS to see your son reach his next birthday. Now chop-fuckin'-chop.
DOG: BIG CHRIS to see your son reach his next birthday. Now chop-fuckin'-chop.
BIG CHRIS: to see your son reach his next birthday. Now chop-fuckin'-chop.
DOG: to see your son reach his next birthday. Now chop-fuckin'-chop.
BIG CHRIS: Big Chris doesn't seem too bothered by this problem. He shrugs and starts the car.
DOG: BIG CHRIS Big Chris starts his car up, looks across to make sure that Little Chris has got his seatbelt on and pulls out on to the road. He gets faster and faster until Dog pokes him in the shoulder with his knife. Chris pulls hard to the left and rams into the nearest parked vehicle. BANG' Dog goes flying forward, hitting the windscreen.
BIG CHRIS: Big Chris starts his car up, looks across to make sure that Little Chris has got his seatbelt on and pulls out on to the road. He gets faster and faster until Dog pokes him in the shoulder with his knife. Chris pulls hard to the left and rams into the nearest parked vehicle. BANG' Dog goes flying forward, hitting the windscreen.
DOG: Big Chris starts his car up, looks across to make sure that Little Chris has got his seatbelt on and pulls out on to the road. He gets faster and faster until Dog pokes him in the shoulder with his knife. Chris pulls hard to the left and rams into the nearest parked vehicle. BANG' Dog goes flying forward, hitting the windscreen.
SOAP: means there's no more debt, and if there's no more debt there's no more problem, and there's no more problem with our neighbours because they are all dead. I think, if I get this right, we haven't done anything wrong anyway, which means we are in the clear. Bang! Big Chris's car hits them straight in the rear. The bag of cash goes flying through the car, landing on the dash. The lads are knocked INT. CHRIS'S CAR ( NOW STATIC ) - DAY Big Chris, having removed the knife from a stunned Dog, proceeds to smash his head against the dash and has the most amount of fun in doing BIG CHRIS me as you have. Dog is being thrown around like a rag doll.
EDDY: means there's no more debt, and if there's no more debt there's no more problem, and there's no more problem with our neighbours because they are all dead. I think, if I get this right, we haven't done anything wrong anyway, which means we are in the clear. Bang! Big Chris's car hits them straight in the rear. The bag of cash goes flying through the car, landing on the dash. The lads are knocked INT. CHRIS'S CAR ( NOW STATIC ) - DAY Big Chris, having removed the knife from a stunned Dog, proceeds to smash his head against the dash and has the most amount of fun in doing BIG CHRIS me as you have. Dog is being thrown around like a rag doll.
BIG CHRIS: me as you have. Dog is being thrown around like a rag doll.
SERG: to know what's going on, Edward.
EDDY: The camera spins round to see the traffic warden standing with a policeman. There is a long pause far consideration. Eventually he shakes his head.
TRAFFIC WARDEN: The policeman then knocks on the door.
SERG: FADE IN TO BLACK. FADE IN. INT. JD'S BAR - NIGHT All the lads are sitting in the bar. Ed is talking to Tom who is interested in whatever he has to say.
EDDY: that put us sort of in the clear. They got no case against us because there is no evidence against us.
BACON: Pause while Tom looks embarrassed about something.
EDDY: Pause while Tom looks embarrassed about something.
SOAP: Ed looks at Tom, who looks even more embarrassed.
TOM: we might sell them back to the Greek, but I am having a bit of a problem getting hold of him.
BACON: we might sell them back to the Greek, but I am having a bit of a problem getting hold of him.
TOM: we might sell them back to the Greek, but I am having a bit of a problem getting hold of him.
BACON: You dippy bastard.
EDDY: which is sitting outside?
TOM: to you, could they?
SOAP: Now, Tom! There is a pause.
EDDY: Now, Tom! There is a pause.
BACON: Now, Tom! There is a pause.
ALTOGETHER: Tom leaves, looking a little sulky.
EDDY: Big Chris walks in. He approaches the bar.
BIG CHRIS: ( Pause ) You come to collect something, Chris? Should I have something for you?
JD: ( Pause ) You come to collect something, Chris? Should I have something for you?
BIG CHRIS: BIG CHRIS BIG CHRIS They all look rather shocked. He is carrying their bag and he places it on the table, which increases the shock factor.
JD: BIG CHRIS BIG CHRIS They all look rather shocked. He is carrying their bag and he places it on the table, which increases the shock factor.
BIG CHRIS: BIG CHRIS They all look rather shocked. He is carrying their bag and he places it on the table, which increases the shock factor.
JD: BIG CHRIS They all look rather shocked. He is carrying their bag and he places it on the table, which increases the shock factor.
BIG CHRIS: They all look rather shocked. He is carrying their bag and he places it on the table, which increases the shock factor.
JD: They all look rather shocked. He is carrying their bag and he places it on the table, which increases the shock factor.
BIG CHRIS: cost him . . . I am not going to make the same mistake, am I? I have decided to bring your bag back. Pause. The words you are looking for start with thank you.
EDDY: BIG CHRIS more. So I have taken care of myself and my son, and if you think that is unfair you just come and pay me a little visit; but you better be waving the white flag high and clear, otherwise it will be the last little visit you lot ever make . . . That's all I had to say. It's been Big Chris turns to walk out. The lads stare at the bag and then at each EXT. JD'S BAR - NIGHT Big Chris walks out into the street. We see a shiny new sports car. Little Chris is sitting in the passenger seat.
BIG CHRIS: more. So I have taken care of myself and my son, and if you think that is unfair you just come and pay me a little visit; but you better be waving the white flag high and clear, otherwise it will be the last little visit you lot ever make . . . That's all I had to say. It's been Big Chris turns to walk out. The lads stare at the bag and then at each EXT. JD'S BAR - NIGHT Big Chris walks out into the street. We see a shiny new sports car. Little Chris is sitting in the passenger seat.
BIG CHRIS: loaning business, all right, son?
LITTLE CHRIS: BIG CHRIS INT. JD'S BAR - NIGHT Ed goes forward to open the case. The rest are still in shock. Ed opens the bag.
BIG CHRIS: INT. JD'S BAR - NIGHT Ed goes forward to open the case. The rest are still in shock. Ed opens the bag.
EDDY: BACON lunges forward and stares in. He sticks his hand in and extracts an A4 envelope. They look puzzled. Ed feels the package and starts to tear the top off. As this is done it creates a split screen. On the other side of the picture, Tom is on a London bridge with the car boot open. He looks at the guns with regret and give them one last polish. Then he folds the guns up and places them on top of a handrail. Simultaneously Ed extracts a Sotherby's brochure on shotguns. They still look confused. They turn the brochure upside down and recognize the shotguns. Slowly they start to turn the pages. Torn pushes the shotguns over the top rail: they fall. He starts walking but stops for some reason. He retreads his steps and peers over; the guns had just fallen on to a shelf. Ed sees the price of the guns: a series of alarming zooms cut between eyes and prices. They panic and reach for their mobile phones. Tom is climbing over the bridge now and has to hold on to the rail with one arm. Ed starts screaming at the other two that the number is engaged and asks them to put their phones down. Tom now had one hand on the guns and one on the rail. His mobile phone starts to ring in his top pocket; he has either to drop the guns or let go of the rail to answer the phone. The shot freezes. Writers : Guy Ritchie
SOAP: BACON lunges forward and stares in. He sticks his hand in and extracts an A4 envelope. They look puzzled. Ed feels the package and starts to tear the top off. As this is done it creates a split screen. On the other side of the picture, Tom is on a London bridge with the car boot open. He looks at the guns with regret and give them one last polish. Then he folds the guns up and places them on top of a handrail. Simultaneously Ed extracts a Sotherby's brochure on shotguns. They still look confused. They turn the brochure upside down and recognize the shotguns. Slowly they start to turn the pages. Torn pushes the shotguns over the top rail: they fall. He starts walking but stops for some reason. He retreads his steps and peers over; the guns had just fallen on to a shelf. Ed sees the price of the guns: a series of alarming zooms cut between eyes and prices. They panic and reach for their mobile phones. Tom is climbing over the bridge now and has to hold on to the rail with one arm. Ed starts screaming at the other two that the number is engaged and asks them to put their phones down. Tom now had one hand on the guns and one on the rail. His mobile phone starts to ring in his top pocket; he has either to drop the guns or let go of the rail to answer the phone. The shot freezes. Writers : Guy Ritchie
EDDY: BACON lunges forward and stares in. He sticks his hand in and extracts an A4 envelope. They look puzzled. Ed feels the package and starts to tear the top off. As this is done it creates a split screen. On the other side of the picture, Tom is on a London bridge with the car boot open. He looks at the guns with regret and give them one last polish. Then he folds the guns up and places them on top of a handrail. Simultaneously Ed extracts a Sotherby's brochure on shotguns. They still look confused. They turn the brochure upside down and recognize the shotguns. Slowly they start to turn the pages. Torn pushes the shotguns over the top rail: they fall. He starts walking but stops for some reason. He retreads his steps and peers over; the guns had just fallen on to a shelf. Ed sees the price of the guns: a series of alarming zooms cut between eyes and prices. They panic and reach for their mobile phones. Tom is climbing over the bridge now and has to hold on to the rail with one arm. Ed starts screaming at the other two that the number is engaged and asks them to put their phones down. Tom now had one hand on the guns and one on the rail. His mobile phone starts to ring in his top pocket; he has either to drop the guns or let go of the rail to answer the phone. The shot freezes. Writers : Guy Ritchie
