"LONE STAR": John Sayles
CLIFF: We got ocotillo, devil's walking stickwhat's this stuffit's that Mikey bends to scoop something out of the sand, putting it in a canvas bag slung on his hip.
MIKEY: This place is a gold mine.
CLIFF: Lead mine. MIKEY sees that Cliff is talking, pulls his headset off.
MIKEY: It's a lead mine.
CLIFF: It's a lead mine.
MIKEY: I don't know why I'm talking to you, you've got that thing on your head.
CLIFF: I don't know why I'm talking to you, you've got that thing on your head.
MIKEY: You finding lots of cactus and shit?
CLIFF: It's not just cactus. There's the nopals, the yuccas
MIKEY: ( Puts headset on ) Looks like a lot of cactus to me.
CLIFF: ( Grumbles ) Man knows a hundred-fifty varieties of beer, he can't tell a poinsettia from a prickly pear.
MIKEY: ( Troubled ) You live in a place, you should know something about it. Explore
CLIFF: You live in a place, you should know something about it. Explore
MIKEY: CU MIKEY MIKEY in the f.g. now, looking down at something as he pulls his headset off again
CU MIKEY: MIKEY in the f.g. now, looking down at something as he pulls his headset off again
MIKEY: Cliff, you gotta look at this Cliff wearily turns and approaches from the b.g.
CLIFF: Don't tell meSpanish treasure, right? Pieces of eight from the Coronado expedition He stops by Mikey and looks down, his expression changing
CLIFF: GROUND CU BONES Sticking out from the sand bank are the SKELETAL BONES of a MAN'S HAND. There is a ring on one finger.
WIDER: Cliff stands looking at the arm with Sam. MIKEY is a few yards behind them, playing with his metal detector. Beyond him we see the Sheriff's car parked.
SAM: I was driving back from Apache Wells when they got me on the radio.
CLIFF: This was a rifle range way back when. But we figured it isn't Army land anymore, it's your jurisdiction.
SAM: ( Nods ) I've got the forensics fella coming down from the Rangers. No way to know how old the body is without some lab work.
CLIFF: That ring
SAM: Masons been around a long while. Mikey has come up to them, still sweeping with the metal Treasure hunter?
SAM: Treasure hunter?
CLIFF: ( Apologetic ) Old bullets. He uhm makes art with them. Sam just nods. Mikey frowns, goes down on one knee and scratches something out of the dirt at their feet
CLIFF: The Sheriff says we shouldn't touch He can't hear with that rig on Mikey comes up with something, holds it before them. An encrusted piece of metal
MIKEY: ( To Sam ) He can't hear with that rig on Mikey comes up with something, holds it before them. An encrusted piece of metal
MIKEY: What've we got here? Sam takes the thing, lays it back down where Mikey found it.
SAM: S'posed to leave everything right where we found it. They're real particular about that.
MIKEY: The scene of the crime.
SAM: No telling yet if there's been a Sam frowns down at the piece of metal as he rubs the face of CU METAL Sam's thumb wipes across the face of the encrusted metal. It is roughly star-shaped.
CU METAL: Sam's thumb wipes across the face of the encrusted metal. It is roughly star-shaped.
PILAR: but hey, public education these days is a bit of a battleground. Posters hung on the walls beyond her show luminaries from Texas history Sam Houston, Stephen Austin, Juan Seguin. A new parent, CELIE PAYNE, stands in the middle of the otherwise empty classroom.
CELIE: He went to school on base when we were in Okinawa. It's allyou know kids in the same boatArmy brats.
PILAR: His record shows that he's a good I'm more worried about the social thing. Are therelikegangs, or.? PILAR starts to put the poster up. CELIE moves to hold it in place for her.
CELIE: I'm more worried about the social thing. Are therelikegangs, or.? PILAR starts to put the poster up. CELIE moves to hold it in place for her.
PILAR: We haven't had any serious violence, if that's what you mean. We've got a pretty lively mix thoughyou walk into the cafeteria and the Anglo kids are in one section, the Mexican kids in another and the Black kids have a table in the backthanks
CELIE: So Blacks are
PILAR: They're the smallest group except for a couple Kickapoo kids. Look, you're obviously a concerned parent. Chet has no history of getting into troubleI'm happy to have him in my She steps back to see if the poster, an old photo of Geronimo, looks straight. Another teacher, MOLLY sticks her head in the door
MOLLY: ( Uncomfortable ) Pilar, is uhmis Amado okay?
PILAR: Okay? He's not here?
MOLLY: No. Is he sick?
PILAR: ( Mutters ) He's going to wish he was dead.
WIDER: A small group of teenage Chicano BOYS hang around the truck in the bed, on the hood, leaning against it. A BOOMBOX placed on top of the cab blasts RANCHA MUSIC out at the neighborhood. Somebody's legs are hanging out the open passenger-side door. The kids suddenly look as a Sheriff's Department car slides into the f.g. A Deputy Sheriff, TRAVIS, gets out.
KIDS: Trying to look tough and unworried as we TRACK across the street toward them. Travis's hand reaches out from behind the camera to flick the MUSIC OFF.
AMADO: Somebody hand me the CD player damelo pendejos He looks up and we TILT to see Travis leaning in the window, examining the new radio
TRAVIS: They come a long way from those old 8-track jobs, haven't they?
AMADO: Something wrong?
TRAVIS: ( Waves radio ) This is stolen property. Alla you fellas are coming down to the station.
HOLLIS: So Buddy walks up to the porch and there's old Fishbait McHenry, cleanin' the dirt out his toenails with a pocketknifehe was the most hygienic of all the McHenrys The breakfast companions are laughing already
HOLLIS: "Fishbait," says Buddy, in that quiet way of his, "What you know about them tires that went missing from markets?" Fishbait thinks for a minute, then he lifts up a loose board from the porch floor and calls down into it, "C'mon out, Pooter, they caught us!"
FENTON: ( Laughing ) Buddy Deeds. He had a way.
HOLLIS: He known who it was onnacouna the tire tracks in the dirt from the back of the garage to where they loaded up. "Old Fishbait," he says, "never lifted a thing in this world if there was a way he could roll More laughter
FENTON: Won't be another like him. That boy of his doesn't come near it. You ask me, he's all hat and no cattle
HOLLIS: Sam! I was just telling a few about your old man.
FENTON: He was a unique individual.
SAM: Yeah, he was that. We sense a little strain when Sam has to talk about his father
HOLLIS: Big day coming upI wish we'd have thought of it while he was still living. But he went so unexpected.
FENTON: Better late than never. Korean War hero, Sheriff for near thirty years Buddy Deeds Memorial P
SAM: I heard there was a bit of a fuss.
HOLLIS: Oh, you know, the usual troublemakers. Danny Padilla from the Sentinel, that crowd.
FENTON: Every other damn thing in the country is called after Martin Luther King, they can't let our side have one measly park?
HOLLIS: King wasn't Mexican, Fenton
FENTON: Bad enough all the street names are in Spanish
SAM: They were here first.
FENTON: Then name it after Big Chief Shitinabucket! Whoever that Tonkawa fella was. He had the Mexes beat by There was a faction pulling for that boy who was killed in the Gulf War Right. But nobody here ever noticed him till they read his name on the national news
HOLLIS: There was a faction pulling for that boy who was killed in the Gulf War Right. But nobody here ever noticed him till they read his name on the national news
SAM: Right. But nobody here ever noticed him till they read his name on the national news
HOLLIS: Right. But nobody here ever noticed him till they read his name on the national news
FENTON: They just wanted it to be one of That's not the whole story. The Mexicans that know, that remember, understand what Buddy was for their people. Hell, it was Mercedes over there who swung the deciding vote for him. Sam looks to the register where Pilar's mother, MERCEDES CRUZ, whacks rolls of change apart on the counter. She seems to be avoiding looking toward him.
HOLLIS: That's not the whole story. The Mexicans that know, that remember, understand what Buddy was for their people. Hell, it was Mercedes over there who swung the deciding vote for him. Sam looks to the register where Pilar's mother, MERCEDES CRUZ, whacks rolls of change apart on the counter. She seems to be avoiding looking toward him.
SAM: That so?
HOLLIS: She put it even at three to three, so as the Mayor I get to cast the tiebreaker. The older generation won't have any problem with it. They remember how Buddy come to be Sheriff, that it was all 'cause he took their Tell that one, Hollis
FENTON: Tell that one, Hollis
HOLLIS: Hell, everybody heard that story a million times.
SAM: I'd like to hear it. Your version of Something about the way Sam says it puts Hollis on guard.
FENTON: Go ahead, Hollis.
CU HOLLIS: Hollis is hooked into it now
HOLLIS: The two of us were the only deputies back then me and Buddyit's what
HOLLIS: And the Sheriff at the time was Big Charley Wade. Charley was one of your old-fashioned bribe-or-bullets kind of Sheriffs, he took a healthy bite out of whatever moved through this county. He looks down at the table
HOLLIS: It was in here one night, back when Jimmy Herrera run the place. Started right here in this booth. We PAN down to the table, The food has changed. The tortillas are in a straw basket instead of plastic. The jukebox changes to ANOTHER SONG and the LIGHT DIMS slightly. A hand with a big Masonic ring on one finger appears to lift a tortilla underneath it lie three ten-dollar bills. The hand lifts them up and we TILT to see the face of SHERIFF CHARLEY WADE, a big, mean redneck with shrewd eyes. It is 1957
WADE: ( Grins ) This beaner fare doesn't agree with me, but the price sure is right.
WIDER: Wade sits across from his young deputies, YOUNG HOLLIS ( 30s ) and BUDDY DEEDS ( 20s ). A chicken-fried steak sits untouched in front of Buddy. Hollis has the anxious look of an errand boy, while Buddy is self-contained and quietly forceful for his age.
BUDDY: What's that for?
WADE: Jimmy got a kitchen full of wetbacks, most of 'em relatives. People breed like chickens.
BUDDY: I roust some muchacho on the street, doesn't have his papers, all he got to say is "Yo trabajo para Jimmy Wade folds the money and stuffs if in his pocket
WADE: I roust some muchacho on the street, doesn't have his papers, all he got to say is "Yo trabajo para Jimmy Wade folds the money and stuffs if in his pocket
WADE: You got to keep the wheels greased, son. Sheriff does his job right, everybody makes out. Now this is gonna be one of your pickups, Buddy. First of the month, just like the rent. Get the car, Hollis. Wade and Hollis slide out of the booth to stand.
BUDDY: I'm not doing it. Hollis stops a few feet away, shocked. Wade just stares down at Buddy.
WADE: Come again? Buddy looks Wade in the eye, seemingly unafraid.
BUDDY: It's your deal. You sweated it out of him, you pick it up.
WADE: There's gonna be some left over for you, Buddy. I take care of my boys.
BUDDY: That's not the point.
WADE: You feeling bad for Jimmy? Have him tell you the size of the mordida they took out of his hide when he run a place on the other side. Those old boys in Ciudad Leon
BUDDY: I'm not picking it up.
WADE: You do whatever I say you do or else you put it on the trail, son. The CUSTOMERS are all watching now, nervous. Buddy thinks for a moment, not taking his eyes off Wade.
BUDDY: How 'bout thishow 'bout you put that shield on this table and vanish before you end up dead or in jail? Wade rests his hand on his pistol. It is dead silent but for the MUSIC on the box.
BUDDY: You ever shoot anybody was looking you in the eye?
WADE: Who said anything about shootin' Buddy has his gun out under the table. He slowly brings it up and lays it flat on the table, not taking his hand off it or his eyes off Wade.
BUDDY: Whole different story; isn't it?
WADE: You're fired. You're outta the There's not a soul in this county isn't sick to death of your bullshit, Charley. You made yourself scarce, you could make a lot of people happy.
BUDDY: There's not a soul in this county isn't sick to death of your bullshit, Charley. You made yourself scarce, you could make a lot of people happy.
WADE: You little pissant
BUDDY: Now or later, Charley. You won't have any trouble finding me. Wade feels the people around him waiting for a reaction. He leans close to Buddy to croak in a hoarse whisper.
WADE: You're a dead man. He turns and nearly bumps into Hollis. He gives the Deputy a Get the goddamn car. We're going to CU BUDDY He watches till the screen door shuts behind them, then holsters his gun and begins to saw at the steak as if nothing had happened. He calls softly
WADE: Get the goddamn car. We're going to CU BUDDY He watches till the screen door shuts behind them, then holsters his gun and begins to saw at the steak as if nothing had happened. He calls softly
CU BUDDY: He watches till the screen door shuts behind them, then holsters his gun and begins to saw at the steak as if nothing had happened. He calls softly
BUDDY: Muchachomas cerveza por favor. He looks up at somebody and we PAN till we see Sam, still standing over the booth, listening. We are back in 1995
FENTON: Charley Wade were known to have put a good number of people in the ground, and your daddy gets eyeball to eyeball with him.
HOLLIS: We made our collection at Roderick's place and that was the last anybody seen hide nor hair of him. He went missing the next day, along with ten thousand dollars in county funds from the safe at the jail.
SAM: Never heard from him again?
HOLLIS: Not a peep. Buddy run the man out of Buddy Deeds said a thing, he damn well backed it up. Won't be another like him.
FENTON: Buddy Deeds said a thing, he damn well backed it up. Won't be another like him.
SAM: So he arrested all of Jimmy Herrera's people and sent 'em back to the other Hollis sees what Sam is getting at, grins
HOLLIS: Ohhe come to an accommodation. Money doesn't always need to change hands to keep the wheels turning.
SAM: Look, I know you had some problems with your father, and he and Muriel Your mother was a saint.
HOLLIS: Look, I know you had some problems with your father, and he and Muriel Your mother was a saint.
FENTON: Your mother was a saint.
HOLLIS: but Buddy Deeds was my salvation. Sam nods, speaks softly
SAM: Won't be another like him.
DEL: it's an honor for me to assume command of this unit, and I look forward to working with all of you. OFFICERS Cliff and Mikey, in uniform now, flank SERGEANT PRISCILLA WORTH, a Black woman in her early 40s, as they stand in formation
REVERSE: We look over the shoulders of assembled OFFICERS and NCOs toward Del.
DEL: that we've been sent here to mark time until we are absorbed by another CU DEL You may have heard rumors that I run a very tight operation. These rumors are not exaggerated.
CU DEL: You may have heard rumors that I run a very tight operation. These rumors are not exaggerated.
DEL: You may have heard rumors that I run a very tight operation. These rumors are not exaggerated.
SAM: Tell him I'll catch him later.
CU PHOTOGRAPH: An old photo of the 1957 Sheriff's Department officers on the courthouse steps. Wade, Hollis, Buddy, a few others, all in uniform.
SAM: Tell him to try me tomorrow.
CU SAM: Looking at the photo, troubled
SAM: ( Mutters ) He's right.
CHET: He nervously puts his hand under his jacket. A gun? He pushes forward to get a better view.
CHET: Reaching under his jacket, he pulls outa photograph. He looks at itsuddenly there is a SCREAM from behind, then GUNSHOTS, patrons diving for the floor. Chet whirls around and we WHIP PAN to see a young man, SHADOW, emptying his pistol into RICHIE, a young soldier, as a young woman, ATHENA, screams and tries to pull the gun away. With the last shot, Shadow turns and heads for the door, but is tackled and swarmed by angry men, SHOUTING. We PAN to Athena, kneeling over the bleeding, twitching body of Richie
CHET: Chet backs up, horrified. A large hand grasps him on the shoulder from behind. He turns to see Otis standing over him, strangely calm amid the chaos
OTIS: You weren't in here tonight, were No sir.
CHET: No sir.
OTIS: ( Points ) Go out through the back. Chet hurries away. Otis watches him for a moment, then turns to the mess in his club.
ANGLO MOTHER: You're just tearin' everything down! Tearin' down our heritage, tearin' down the memory of people that fought and died for this land.
CHICANO FATHER: We fought the U.S. Army, the Texas Yeah, but you lost, buddy! We WHIP PAN to a man in the rear
ANGLO FATHER: Winners get the bragging rights, that's how it goes.
WIDER: We are in the High School auditorium, a hot-and-heavy teachers- and-parents meeting in progress. Pilar sits at the end of a long table facing the agitated parents, taking some heat. DANNY PADILLA, a young, long-haired reporter, sits in the front taking notes, enjoying the show.
PRINCIPAL: I think it would be best not to put things in terms of winners and losers
ANGLO MOTHER: ( Points at Pilar ) Well, the way she's teachin' it has got everything switched around. I was on the textbook committee, and her version is not
PRINCIPAL: We think of the textbook as kind of a guide, not an absolute
ANGLO MOTHER: it is not what we set as the standard! Now you people can believe what you want, but when it comes to teaching our children
CHICANO MOTHER: They're our children, too!
ANGLO FATHER: The men who founded this state have a right to have their story
DANNY: The men who founded this state broke from Mexico because they needed slavery to be legal to make a fortune in the cotton business!
PILAR: I think that's a bit of an Are you reporting this meeting or runnin' it, Danny?
ANGLO FATHER: Are you reporting this meeting or runnin' it, Danny?
DANNY: Just adding a little historical REAR OF AUDITORIUM PALOMA CRUZ, Pilar's teenage daughter, peeks into the room, then moves down the side toward the stage.
ANGLO FATHER: You may call it history, but I call it propaganda. I'm sure they got their own account of the Alamo on the other side, but we're not on the other side, so we're not about to have it taught in our schools!
PILAR: There's no reason to be so threatened by this Pilar is trying to stay calm despite her anger.
PILAR: I've only been trying to get across some of the complexity of our situation down herecultures coming together in both negative and positive If you mean like music and food and all, I have no problem with that.
REVERSE: We shoot past Pilar toward the parents in their seats. PALOMA steps up to whisper to her.
ANGLO MOTHER: but when you start changing who did what to who.
TEACHER: We're not changing anything, we're presenting a more complete picture.
ANGLO MOTHER: And that's what's got to stop! Pilar looks troubled by what she's heard. She shoots a look toward the others at the table, then slips away with Paloma
TEACHER: There's enough ignorance in the world without us encouraging it in the Now who are you calling ignorant?
ANGLO MOTHER: Now who are you calling ignorant?
PRINCIPAL: Folks, I know this is a very emotional issue for some of you, but we do have other business to attend to
CHICANO FATHER: We're not going to get some resolution on this?
CU PRINCIPAL: Would you people like to form another GROANS from the parents
PRINCIPAL: Would you people like to form another GROANS from the parents
SHADOW: I hope the sucker does die, man! Mess with me, that's what you get! Sam steps in behind him and meets his Chief Deputy RAY HERNANDEZ, coming from the other direction.
RAY: Hospital says the other kid is in bad shape
SAM: ( Glances ahead ) The shooter local?
RAY: ( Shakes his bead ) Down from Houston. I think he knew the girl before.
SAM: Okaywe'll take a statement from all the GIs before they go back to post. You can get the story from Otis over at the club.
RAY: Any poop on the John Doe you found out there today?
SAM: Nothin' much. The Rangers put Ben Wetzel on it. Catch you later. As Ray steps out, Pilar looking distraught, walks into the station, passing right by Sam without seeing him.
CU SAM: Wonders what she's doing there
SAM: Something wrong?
PILAR: They've got my Amado.
SAM: Got him here?
PILAR: Somebody calledsomething about an electronics store.
SAM: I'll see what's going on. He starts away, stops, comes back
SAM: I wasI was real sorry about Nando. He was a good fella. We haven't talked We haven't talked since high school.
PILAR: We haven't talked since high school.
SAM: Yeah. I'll go check on your boy. Pilar watches Sam go
ATHENA: so Richie just didn't say nothin' 'cause he didn't want to get into it, see, and the next thing I know there's shots and Richie is down. It happened so fast
SAM: We got some boys you run in earlier Yeah. I pulled the bunch that hangs at Pico Bernal's place. We finally caught them with something.
TRAVIS: Yeah. I pulled the bunch that hangs at Pico Bernal's place. We finally caught them with something.
SAM: You got a juvenile with 'ernAmado Travis looks at his booking sheets
TRAVIS: Yeahlet's seethe other ones say he wasn't in on the theft, he just knows how to hook things up. We've been trying to contact a parent.
SAM: They tell me you're good at fixing Your father was a hell of a mechanic. Still nothing
SAM: Your father was a hell of a mechanic. Still nothing
SAM: You know, if you figure minimum wage on the time most thieves spend in jail, they could have bought most everything they stole.
AMADO: I didn't steal anything.
SAM: I didn't say you did. My name is Sam, by the way. Amado just gives him a look
SAM: He's all yours.
PILAR: Are you okay?
AMADO: I don't know what the big deal is.
PILAR: You'll find out when I get you home. Thanks, Sam.
SAM: No problem. Pilar yanks AMADO outside by his arm. She turns to shoot a look back at Sam, then steps out through the glass door.
CU SAM: Watching her go
SAM: Any time.
MEN: Del Payne runs with Cliff and Mikey on a pathway along a security fence, the two sergeants struggling to keep up, occasionally vaulting or scaling some mild obstacle.
MIKEY: There's not that much down here, Colonel. Big O's is the only place in the county that our African American soldiers are uhmthat they feel comfortable in.
DEL: Have we had trouble there before?
CLIFF: Since I've been stationed here? A fistfight now and then
MIKEY: We had a kid pass out in the men's room. The town isn't much.
DEL: They didn't come for a vacation.
CLIFF: Yes sir.
MIKEY: You know how it is, Colonelfirst time away from home, dealing with new peopleI remember my first hitch
DEL: Substance abuse?
MIKEY: Well, yeah, but I went through the Program. I haven't had a drink since
DEL: I meant on the post. In general. How are you dealing with it?
CLIFF: We throw a urine test at them once a month. Random numbers, maybe a hundred people at a time
DEL: Why don't we make it once a week for a while?
CLIFF: No problem, sir. Del notices bow hard they are breathing
DEL: I sprint the last quarter mile. You gentlemen don't have to keep up if you don't care to.
MIKEY: Appreciate it, sir. Del accelerates and we HOLD with the sergeants, slowing to a Guy cracks walnuts with his asshole.
MIKEY: Guy cracks walnuts with his asshole.
CLIFF: ( Grins ) You get the feeling he doesn't want to be here?
CU METAL: MUSIC CONTINUES as we TIGHTEN on the piece of metal, a pair of tongs pulling it from the de-tarnishing solution. It is a star-shaped badge, bearing the words "SHERIFFRIO COUNTY."
BEN: Sam the Man.
SAM: Hey, Ben. Thanks for coming down. They shake, Sam sits.
BEN: How's business?
SAM: Business is booming. Got your drugs, got your illegalshad a shooting the other night at Big O'sSoldier got ventilated.
BEN: I hear they're closing that post September '97, that's all she wrote.
SAM: September '97, that's all she wrote.
BEN: Gonna pull a lot of jobs out of this Yeah, we'll have folks swimming over to Mexico to work in the sweatshops. Sam looks at the folder of reports.
SAM: Yeah, we'll have folks swimming over to Mexico to work in the sweatshops. Sam looks at the folder of reports.
SAM: That the word on our boy?
BEN: Yeah, this is Skinny.
SAM: We find a body, it's either Skinny or Stinky, depending on how much meat there is on the bones.
BEN: We find a body, it's either Skinny or Stinky, depending on how much meat there is on the bones.
SAM: Nice job.
BEN: ( Opens folder ) Male, 40 to 50 years old, five-foot- eleven, chewed tobaccothen we get into the dental records
SAM: Charley Wade.
BEN: ( Nods ) That badge
SAM: it didn't come out of a cereal You know the popular version of how he left town.
BEN: You know the popular version of how he left town.
SAM: You know the popular version of how he left town.
BEN: Everybody on the border knows that You got a cause of death?
SAM: You got a cause of death?
BEN: Skull was intact, no soft tissue leftnot much to go on.
SAM: So he could have gone out to the base, hopped the fence, dug down into the dirt on the old rifle range and had a heart attack. Ben smiles, closes the folder
BEN: You uhmyou remember what old Buddy carried for a side arm?
SAM: Colt Peacemaker.
BEN: A .45 He swore by it. Just wondering.
A .45: He swore by it. Just wondering.
SAM: He swore by it. Just wondering.
BEN: Just wondering.
SAM: So is Buddy on your short list?
BEN: If it was some poor mojado, swam across at night, got lost in the scrub and starved out there, we wouldn't go any further. But this is a formerly prominent citizen.
SAM: You got to investigate. No question about it.
BEN: What I will do is keep names out of it till we got some answers or hit a dead end. You know how the press is with a murder storyeven if it's forty years old.
SAM: Yeah, it's a pretty cold trail. They sit in awkward silence for a moment. Ben feels bad about I remember Charley Wade come to my father's hardware store once when I was a little boy. I'd heard stories how he shot this one, how he shot that oneman winked at me and I peed in my pants. Winked at me.
BEN: I remember Charley Wade come to my father's hardware store once when I was a little boy. I'd heard stories how he shot this one, how he shot that oneman winked at me and I peed in my pants. Winked at me.
PILAR: Okay, we have the fight against the Spanish with bloody conflict for dozens of years till they're finally defeated in 1821 and Mexican independence is declared. Anglo settlers are invited
CU DRAWING: Somebody making a skillful pencil drawing on the corner of a sheet of lined notebook paper. A bald, muscular shotputter after releasing the shot, his hand large in the f.g.
CHET: Drawing intently. He takes the notebook and lays his thumb over the corner.
NOTEBOOK: Chet "flips" the corner of the notebook and the series of drawings he's made form a brief cartoon of the shot-putter blowing his cheeks out and heaving the shot right past us. Extremely well-drawn
PILAR: Looking out at the class
PILAR: and all this paralleled by constant battles between both the Mexican and Anglo settlers and the various Indian nations in the area. What are we seeing here? Chet?
CHET: Startled, he hides the notebook under his hands
CHET: Uhmeverybody is killing everybody EXT. LAKE DAY CU FISHING LURE A nasty-looking thing. Only a bass would want to eat this. Hollis leans in to peer at the thing dangling before his Hollis sits in the swivel chair of a bass boat tied to a dock at the lake, going through his box of lures. Sam appears on the dock and steps down.
WIDER: Hollis sits in the swivel chair of a bass boat tied to a dock at the lake, going through his box of lures. Sam appears on the dock and steps down.
SAM: I always wondered what you Mayors do when you're not cutting ribbons.
HOLLIS: Sam! Hey podner! You caught me playing Floating around out here, playin' hell with them bassplay a little cards, play a little golf, drink some beer
SAM: ( Looks across lake ) Floating around out here, playin' hell with them bassplay a little cards, play a little golf, drink some beer
HOLLIS: Sounds great. Where do I sign up?
SAM: I haven't been out here for a while.
HOLLIS: You go by your old house?
SAM: Just as well. The new people just painted it some God-awful color
HOLLIS: Just as well. The new people just painted it some God-awful color
SAM: We found a body out by the Army base yesterday. Been there for a long Hollis squints at a rubber lure, rejects it
HOLLIS: Was it Davy Crockett or Jim Bowie?
SAM: ( Smiles ) You recall if Charley Wade was a Charley? I believe he was. Used to go for lodge meetings over to Laredo. What's he got to do with your body?
HOLLIS: Charley? I believe he was. Used to go for lodge meetings over to Laredo. What's he got to do with your body?
SAM: All it was wearing was a big old Masonic ring and a Rio County Sheriffs Hollis reacts. Sam puts a foot on the gunwale of the boat.
SAM: You don't remember anything else from that last night you saw him, do I told the story enough timeshell, we were just in the car, he was stewing about the fight with Buddy while we drove over to Roderick He owned the colored roadhouse before Big O
HOLLIS: I told the story enough timeshell, we were just in the car, he was stewing about the fight with Buddy while we drove over to Roderick He owned the colored roadhouse before Big O
SAM: He owned the colored roadhouse before Big O
HOLLIS: He owned the colored roadhouse before Big O
SAM: He still living?
HOLLIS: No. I think his widow's still in their place in Darktown, though. You think it's Charley Wade, huh?
SAM: Forensics people are sure of it. You have any idea who might have put him Hollis makes a great show of considering
SAM: Besides my father, I mean.
HOLLIS: There's no call for that, Sam. Fella made himself a pile of enemies over the years.
SAM: And Buddy was one of them.
HOLLIS: We got that dedication tomorrow. This is a hell of a time to be draggin' up old business.
SAM: People have worked this whole big thing up around my father. If it's built on a crime, they deserve to know. Now I understand why you might want to believe he couldn't do it.
HOLLIS: And I understand why you might want to think he could. This is a low blow, but accurate enough to shake Sam.
SAM: Thanks for your time, Hollis. Hollis holds up a double handful of luresdozens of rubber and plastic worms and shiners and frogs and spinners
HOLLIS: Look at all this, would you? My tackle, the boat, all to catch a little old fish just minding its business on the bottom of the lake. He gives Sam a look
HOLLIS: Hardly seems worth the effortdoes it, Sam? Sam walks away
ATHENA: From back in Houston. We both come up on Fifth Street.
ATHENA: If I had I wouldn't have gone in.
ATHENA: We were just dancing
WIDER: Cliff leans against a desk, a blackboard covered with radar diagrams behind him. Priscilla sits nearby, both of them focused on Athena.
PRISCILLA: We're not running a dating service I know that, Sergeant. We were just dancing. There was a bunch of us there. Shadow just come down looking for trouble.
ATHENA: I know that, Sergeant. We were just dancing. There was a bunch of us there. Shadow just come down looking for trouble.
CLIFF: It's not our job to get involved in your personal life, but when it interferes with the training here
ATHENA: I'm sorry, Sergeant Major. There wasn't anything I could do. Shadow gets crazy A silence as the sergeant lets her stew for a moment. She works up her courage
ATHENA: Sergeant Major? How is Richie doing? Private Graves?
CLIFF: He'll live.
PRISCILLA: He'll be transferred to a military hospital as soon as he's stabilized
CLIFF: He'll probably be getting a medical Out of the Army?
ATHENA: Out of the Army?
CLIFF: He's going to lose a lung. This is not good news for Athena
ATHENA: Will this go on my record? Cliff considers for a long moment
CLIFF: If the incident happened the way you say it did, there hasn't been an Thank you, Sergeant Major.
ATHENA: Thank you, Sergeant Major.
CLIFF: You're dismissed.
ATHENA: Thank you, Sergeant Major. Athena steps out of the room. Cliff sits on the desk
PRISCILLA: You spoil 'em, Cliff.
CLIFF: Heyshe's in a tough situation. I cut her some slack
PRISCILLA: But I'm the one in charge of her sorry ass.
CLIFF: She's pulled herself out of a pretty rough neighborhood. Crossing to the door
PRISCILLA: And if she isn't careful she's gonna slide right back into it.
MINNIE: MINNIE BLEDSOE, in her 60s, sits on her porch in the old Black section of town, playing with a Gameboy. She has very thick glasses on. Sam walks up to her from his car
SAM: Mrs. Bledsoe?
MINNIE: That's me.
SAM: I'm Sheriff Deeds
MINNIE: Sheriff Deeds' dead, honeyyou just Sheriff junior.
SAM: ( Smiles ) Yeah, that's the story of my life.
MINNIE: You ever play one of these?
SAM: I've seen 'em.
MINNIE: Well, don't ever start up on 'em, cause once you do you can't stop. I tell myself I'm gonna play just three little games after breakfast, and here I sit with half the day gone.
SAM: You mind if I ask a few questions about your husband? Roderick?
MINNIE: I won't say nothing bad about the man, but you can ask away.
SAM: He had the club out on the old trail We run that twenty-odd years. Give it over to Otis Payne in 1967. April.
MINNIE: We run that twenty-odd years. Give it over to Otis Payne in 1967. April.
SAM: So you must remember Sheriff Wade.
MINNIE: Not if I can help it.
SAM: You had to deal with him in running the club.
MINNIE: Them days, you deal with Sheriff Wade or you didn't deal at all. First of the month, every month, he remind you of who you really workin' for.
SAM: He squeezed money out of you?
MINNIE: Wasn't legal to sell liquor in a glass back then unless you was a club, see. Roderick used to say, "Buy yourself a drink, you get a free membership." But Sheriff Wade, he could shut you down anytime.
SAM: And my father?
MINNIE: Sheriff Buddy was a different story. Long as Roderick throw his weight the right way on election day, make sure all the colored get out to vote- we was called colored back then, if you was politemaybe throw a barbecue for the right people now and then, things was peaceful. That Sheriff Wade, though, he took an awful big People didn't complain?
SAM: People didn't complain?
MINNIE: Not if they was colored or Meskin. Not if they wanted to keep breathin'.
SAM: Do you remember the last time you saw him? Minnie thinks, puts down the Gameboy
MINNIE: I seen him in our place the last week before he gone missin'. We TRACK in to a close-up of her. R&B MUSIC FADES UP slowly
MINNIE: He used to come in whilst we was in full swing, make people nervous. Had him a smile like the Grim Reaper
CU WADE: Watching Young Otis with narrowed eyes
WADE: Pour it.
WADE: Pour it. Expressionless, he starts to pour the beer into Wade's glass. The Sheriff looks up into his face
WADE: I know you?
YOUNG OTIS: Name's Otis.
WADE: Otis what?
YOUNG OTIS: One of Cleroe Payne's boys?
WADE: One of Cleroe Payne's boys?
YOUNG OTIS: I sent your Daddy to the farm once.
WADE: I sent your Daddy to the farm once.
YOUNG OTIS: I know that.
WADE: Why you think that was? Otis feels people watching. He doesn't want to lose face
YOUNG OTIS: Some crop needed pickin' and the man was shorthanded. A very insolent answer for the time and place
WADE: As I remember it was because he had a sassy mouth on him. Must run in the familyYou wouldn't be runnin' numbers out of this club, now, would you, son?
YOUNG OTIS: Runnin' numbers illegal.
WADE: Runnin' numbers without I know about it is both illegal and unhealthy. You remember that. The beer is poured. Otis starts away
WADE: Whoah, son. You're not finished. Pour his.
YOUNG HOLLIS: I prefer it in the bottle
WADE: Shut up, Hollis. Pour. Otis meets Wade's look now, pours the other beer
WADE: How come you don't took familiar?
YOUNG OTIS: Been away. Up to Houston.
WADE: Houston, huh? I hear they let you boys run wild up there. No response. Wade deliberately pushes the glass away so beer splashes on the table and drips into Hollis's lap
WADE: Awlook what you done now. Better get something to wipe it up, son. Half the people in the room are watching now, the other half moving away to relative safety. Otis tries to keep a lid on his temper, looks around the room
YOUNG OTIS: You spilt it, you wipe it up. Wade stands, steely-eyed, and looks at Otis nose to nose
WADE: I told you to do something. Are you gonna hop to it, or are we gonna have a problem? Otis is starting to shake, but holds his ground
WADE: Don't want to turn tail in front of your people. I understand. He starts to turn away then WHAP! brings the butt of his pistol up under Otis's chin, knocking him to the floor. A woman SCREAMS and Otis, enraged, grabs the chair he has fallen over, starts to get upbut Wade has the pistol levelled at his face
WADE: Come on, Houston, give it a try! Come to Poppa RODERICK is out on the floor now, hands held out in a gesture of peace, as YOUNG MINNIE watches from behind the bar, Don't mind him, Sheriff. Boy's just a bit slow, is all. He don't mean nothin' by it
RODERICK: Don't mind him, Sheriff. Boy's just a bit slow, is all. He don't mean nothin' by it
WADE: That the problem, son? You Slow?
RODERICK: Otis, apologize to the Sheriff Otis eases the chair down but doesn't say anything
RODERICK: You got him too scared to peep, Sheriff. Maybe if you put that gun You telling me what to do, Roderick?
WADE: You telling me what to do, Roderick?
RODERICK: No, Sheriff, I'm just Wade looks around, widens his eyes in mock surprise
WADE: What's this I see? Is that whiskey in them glasses on the Bar? Roderick, I'm gonna have to cite you for a violation of state law
RODERICK: This is a club, Sheriffyou been in And people better clear out of here! A few people start for the exit. Wade swivels and BLAM sends a bullet past Minnie that shatters a crystal decanter behind the bar. People run for the door. Wade squats down to look Otis in the face
WADE: And people better clear out of here! A few people start for the exit. Wade swivels and BLAM sends a bullet past Minnie that shatters a crystal decanter behind the bar. People run for the door. Wade squats down to look Otis in the face
CU WADE: You learn how to act your place, son. This idn't Houston. He stands and we FOLLOW him toward the bar
WADE: You learn how to act your place, son. This idn't Houston. He stands and we FOLLOW him toward the bar
OTIS: I didn't understand the spot I was putting Roderick in.
SAM: And that was the last time you saw We SHIFT to see Sam sitting where Wade was headed
OTIS: OhI think he came in one more time with Hollis andnaw, your Daddy wasn't with them. Made their monthly pickup. Roderick wasn't in so I just kept my mouth good and shut and handed over that envelope.
SAM: That was the night he disappeared?
OTIS: ( Shakes his head ) Could of been. That was white people's And when my father was Sheriff?
SAM: And when my father was Sheriff?
OTIS: What about it?
SAM: What was your deal with him? Otis smiles, chooses his words carefully
OTIS: Buddy was more a part of the big picturecounty political machine, chamber of commerce, zoning board if I kept those people happy, he was pretty much on my side. Whenever somebody thoughtthey start up another bar for the black folks, they'd behow should I put this? They'd be officially discouraged.
SAM: He ever accept cash for a favor? Otis smiles, looks away to ponder his response
OTIS: I don't recall a prisoner ever died in your father's custody. I don't recall a man in this townBlack, White, Mexicanwho'd hesitate a minute before they'd call on Buddy Deeds to solve a problem. More than that I wouldn't like to say.
AMADO: If you had your way I wouldn't have any friends.
PILAR: Oh, come on, Amado
AMADO: Just 'cause I'm not like Little Miss Honor Roll here
PILAR: Leave your sister out of it.
AMADO: You and all of the teachers in this dumpyour story's over, so you don't want anybody else to have fun. We see on PILAR's face that he has scored
PALOMA: You jerk
AMADO: I'm not talking to you. You don't have any friends. PILAR eases the car down San Jacinto street, seeing something on the street and she's tuning her kids' conversation out
PALOMA: Who'd want to be friends with that bunch of pachuco wannabes?
AMADO: I don't pretend I came over on the And those stupid girls who hang out with them
PALOMA: And those stupid girls who hang out with them
AMADO: Just shut up.
PALOMA: Not if you have half a brain in your Of course you can.
PILAR: Of course you can.
PALOMA: It doesn't have anything to do with being smart.
PILAR: It doesn't have anything to do with being smart.
JORGE: What I'm saying is, I don't see the point. You had your chance when the dedication committee was meeting
DANNY: I've got new information
DANNY: 1963, they dam up the north branch to make Lake Pescadero. A whole little town disappears
DANNY: People had been living in Perdido for over a hundred years. Mexicans and Chicanos are deported, evicted, moved forcibly out of their houses by our local hero, Buddy Deeds, and his department
JORGE: There was a bill from the state Families were split apart, a whole community was destroyed
DANNY: Families were split apart, a whole community was destroyed
DANNY: and who ends up with lakefront property bought for a fraction of the market price? Buddy Deeds, Sheriff of Rio County, and his Chief Deputy, Hollis Pogue. They all look at Sam, who has been listening patiently the whole while. They've reached his office.
SAM: You finished?
DANNY: Look, I'm not after you, Sam. I just think people in town ought to know the full story on Buddy Deeds.
SAM: ( Nods ) That makes two of us. Sam steps into his office, leaving H.L. shaking his head
DEL: Otis Payne was never embarrassed about a thing in his life.
CHET: CELIE ( O.S. ) You were 8 years old when he left
DEL: He didn't leave, he moved three houses down with one of my mother's best "Hey, Delmore, where's your Daddy?" Del disappears into the bedroom at the end of the hall
CHET: "Hey, Delmore, where's your Daddy?" Del disappears into the bedroom at the end of the hall
DEL: "Hey, Delmore, where's your Daddy?" Del disappears into the bedroom at the end of the hall
DEL: Big O was always there with a smile or a loan or a free drink.
CHET: Dad, can I talk to you about track?
DEL: Not that much.
CHET: Dad, I talked to the track coach
DEL: I thought we already had this out? Next year, if your grades are high I have a B average.
CHET: I have a B average.
DEL: How many B-average students do you think they take at West Point?
DEL: No, we don't. Del steps away past us, leaving Chet, defeated
ENRIQUE: Sabado por la nocheIs, es el mas segueroa cruzar por la manana y pues tendremos que esperar[Friday nightYes, that's the safestI'll cross in the morning and then we'll have to wait] Mercedes bustles by, snapping her fingers
MERCEDES: Off the phone, by we've got people waiting. Andale! We FOLLOW Mercedes back into the kitchen, where she moves through, kibbitzing the operation
WAITRESS: Mercedes stops by a young girl prepping a pork loin to be cooked. She isn't wearing gloves.
MERCEDES: Donde estan sus guantes? Tonta! Quiere matar a mis clientes? [Where are your gloves? Stupid! You want to kill my customers?] She continues past, shaking her bead, bringing us to Pilar, who is trying to stay out of the way
MERCEDES: These ones coming up are getting stupider every year.
PILAR: Maybe you're just getting less If they're going to survive here, they have to know how to work, Elalco! Adelante! Los clientes esperan!
MERCEDES: If they're going to survive here, they have to know how to work, Elalco! Adelante! Los clientes esperan!
PILAR: Well, you hire illegals
MERCEDES: ( Indignant ) Nobody is illegal in my cafe! They've got green cards, they've got relatives who were born hereif they only had a little common sense I'd be very If you spent a little more time training them
PILAR: If you spent a little more time training them
MERCEDES: Did you come here to tell me how to run my business?
PILAR: No. I was wondering if you'd like to take a trip down south with us. Maybe see where you grew up
MERCEDES: Why would I want to go there?
PILAR: Oh, come onyou must be curious how it's changed. Amado is into this big Tejano roots thing and I've never been further than Ciudad Leon
MERCEDES: You want to see Mexicans, open your eyes and look around you. We're up to our ears in them. Pilar gives up on the trip. She watches her mother poking at the plates of chips and salsa ready to go out
PILAR: Mami, how old were you when my father
MERCEDES: He was killed.
PILAR: Right. When he was killed.
MERCEDES: A little older than Paloma is now.
PILAR: How come you never got married again? Mercedes just glares at her
PILAR: There must have been somebody.
MERCEDES: ( Mutters ) I was too busy.
PILAR: Nobody's too busy.
MERCEDES: Maybe now. It was different back then. I had this place, I was doing all the shopping, all the cooking. What do I need some chulo with grease under his nails to drink up the Thank you.
PILAR: ( Pissed off ) Thank you.
MERCEDES: I don't mean Fernando.
PILAR: Mami, the first time I brought him home, those were your exact words "some chulo with grease under his I never said that.
MERCEDES: I never said that.
PILAR: You made it pretty damn clear you thought he was nobody.
MERCEDES: I felt that you could do better for What? Become a nun? You didn't want me going out with Anglos
PILAR: What? Become a nun? You didn't want me going out with Anglos
MERCEDES: I never said that. It was just that "That boy"Mami, say his name for The employees are staring. Mercedes won't look at her daughter as she steps out of the kitchen, banging into Enrique on his way back in
PILAR: "That boy"Mami, say his name for The employees are staring. Mercedes won't look at her daughter as she steps out of the kitchen, banging into Enrique on his way back in
MERCEDES: You people are stealing my money Entiende? Robandome? Mercedes is gone. The young girl, pulling plastic gloves on, looks to Pilar.
GIRL: Su madre? [Your mother?]
PILAR: The girl puts her hand on her heart in sympathy
GIRL: Lo siento [My condolences.]
CODY: Now I'm just as liberal as the next If the next guy's a redneck.
SAM: If the next guy's a redneck.
CODY: but I gotta say I think there's something to this cold climate business. I mean, you go to the beach- what do you do? Drink a few beers, wait for a fish to flop up on the sand. Can't build no civilization that way. You got a hard winter coming, though, you got to plan ahead, and that gives your cerebral cortex a workout.
SAM: Good deal you were born down here, You joke about it, Sam, but we are in a state of crisis. The lines of demarcation has gotten fuzzyto run a sucessfull civilization you got to have lines of demarcation between right and wrong, between this one and that oneyour Daddy understood that. He was like the whatchacallit the referee for this damn menudo we got down here. He understood how most people don't want their sugar and salt in the same jar.
CODY: You joke about it, Sam, but we are in a state of crisis. The lines of demarcation has gotten fuzzyto run a sucessfull civilization you got to have lines of demarcation between right and wrong, between this one and that oneyour Daddy understood that. He was like the whatchacallit the referee for this damn menudo we got down here. He understood how most people don't want their sugar and salt in the same jar.
SAM: You mixed drinks bad as you mix metaphors, you be out of a job.
CODY: Take that pair over in the corner Sam swivels to look where Cody points
CODY: Place like this, twenty years ago, Buddy woulda been, on them two
CODY: but just as a kind of safety tip.
SAM: Yeah. I bet he would.
CODY: Old Sam stood for somethin', you know? The day that man died they broke the goddamn mold.
PRISCILLA: So where does that put us?
CLIFF: WellI don't see what's changed. No - PDA's, no necking on the obstacle Seriously, I think we should get We been through this before
PRISCILLA: Seriously, I think we should get We been through this before
CLIFF: Seriously, I think we should get We been through this before
PRISCILLA: We been through this before
CLIFF: We should just do it.
PRISCILLA: And if I get a shot at a promotion You could take it
CLIFF: You could take it
PRISCILLA: It's up or out these days, Cliff. Say I get transferred to a different I'd quit the Army for you, if it came to that.
CLIFF: I'd quit the Army for you, if it came to that.
PRISCILLA: ( Grins ) Man's gonna retire in two years and he offer to quit. Big goddamn deal.
CLIFF: Sheriffhithis is Sergeantthis is Priscilla Worth.
SAM: Pleased to meet you.
CLIFF: Sheriff Deeds was in on our archeological find yesterday.
PRISCILLA: It true they gonna build a shopping mall out there?
SAM: If certain people have their way, it's going to be a new jail.
PRISCILLA: Damn. Maybe we got in the wrong business. They closin' down military bases left and right, puttin' up jails like 7-11 stores.
SAM: Do either of you have any idea when they stopped using that site as a rifle range?
CLIFF: They stopped training infantry there in the late '50s. It was just a playground for the jackrabbits till they gave it to the county last year.
PRISCILLA: You know who it was they dug up?
SAM: Not for sure yet. But I kind of wish they hadn't.
ENRIQUE: Es muy lindo, su coche
MERCEDES: En ingles Enrique. This is the United States. We speak English.
ENRIQUE: Is very beautiful, your car.
MERCEDES: Good night, Enrique. She slides into the car
ENRIQUE: Buenas noches, Senora Cruz. Enrique walks in the opposite direction
FADE OUT: EXT. BIG O'S ROADHOUSE DAY CU DEL Del, in uniform, approaches the front door of Big O's, not open for business yet. We TIGHTEN as he stops to read a handlettered sign next to it: "BLACK SEMINOLE EXHIBIT REAR ENTRANCE." He steps in
OTIS: Carolynknock that off for a minute.
CAROLYN: CAROLYN SYKES, an attractive woman maybe ten years younger than Otis, pulls the plug from the jukebox near where she's scrubbing bloodstains off the floor. She turns to look at the newcomer
BAR: Del doesn't move to come closer
DEL: Black Seminoles?
OTIS: ( Shrugs ) Hobby of mine. Got some artifacts, couple pieces one of your men out at the base made. Free admission. Del nods toward where Carolyn is mopping
DEL: That where he was shot?
OTIS: That's where he fell.
DEL: You get much of that in here?
OTIS: It's a bar. People come together, drink, fall in love, fall out of love, air their grudges out
DEL: Deal drugs in the bathroom
OTIS: If I thought it would help I'd put up a sign telling them not to. Right under the one about the employees washing their hands. Carolyn has come over by Otis, lugging the bucket and mop
OTIS: This here's Carolyn. Honey, this is my son, Delmore.
DEL: Nice to meet you, Ma'am. Carolyn nods, shoots a look to Otis
CAROLYN: I'll be in back waiting for that They wail till she is gone to start again
OTIS: So tell me why I shouldn't make this place off-limits.
DEL: So tell me why I shouldn't make this place off-limits.
OTIS: This is an official visit, then
DEL: I assume a lot of your business is from our people. Otis pulls a tap back and it coughs before squirting beer.
OTIS: Your boys out there cooped up together, need somewhere they can let the steam out. If they're Black, there's not but one place in this town they feel welcome. Been that way since before you were born.
DEL: We have an enlisted man's club at the post.
OTIS: Well, you're the Man out there now, aren't you? It's your call.
DEL: That's right.
OTIS: ( Smiles ) I been hearing rumors about this new commander coming for a couple weeks now. Boys say they heard he's a real hard case. Spit-and-polish man. Full- bird colonel name of Payne, they say Bet you never figured you end up back here.
DEL: The Army hands you a command, you go wherever it is.
OTIS: I hear things, too. People call you the Mayor of Darktown.
DEL: I hear things, too. People call you the Mayor of Darktown.
OTIS: ( Shrugs ) Over the years, this is the one place that's always been there. I loan a little money out, settle some arguments. Got a cot in the back- people get afraid to go home they can spend the night. There's not enough of us to run anything in this town- the white people are mostly out on the lake now and the Mexicans hire each other. There's the Holiness Church and there's Big O's place.
DEL: And people make their choice
OTIS: ( Smiles ) A lot of 'em choose both. There's not like a borderline between the good people and the bad peopleyou're not either on one side or the other Del looks away, not wanting to believe this
OTIS: ( Softly ) I gonna meet that family of yours?
DEL: Why would you want to do that?
OTIS: Because I'm your father. Del gives him a dark look and lets the statement hang between them. He gets up and heads for the door
DEL: You'll get official notification when I make my decision. He is out the doorOtis pulls himself a beer as Carolyn steps back out
CAROLYN: So that's him
OTIS: Yeahthat's him. Got two, three thousand people under him out there, you count the civilians.
CAROLYN: That must be a laugh a minute.
SAM: Seems like we have another one every Jorge and his Chamber of Commerce boys got to keep things hummin'
JORGE: We're building up tourism, Sam
SAM: People come here to catch bass and to get laid at the Boy's Town in Cuidad Leon
JORGE: You ought to put up a banner "Frontera, Texas: Gateway to Cut- Rate Pussy"
SAM: You ought to put up a banner "Frontera, Texas: Gateway to Cut- Rate Pussy"
SAM: Rather have that than the ten-foot- high catfish statue
JORGE: I got Eddie Richter at the Sentinel to kill that story.
SAM: The Perdido thing?
JORGE: He agreed it wasn't exactly news
SAM: Danny's gonna be out for blood the next time.
SAM: We don't need a new jail.
SAM: We're already renting cells to the Feds for their overflow
JORGE: There was a mandate in the last It wouldn't happen to be your construction company gonna get the bid on building this thing, would it, H.L. And Jorge, you wouldn't be thinking about a couple dozen new jobs to dangle in front of the voters
SAM: It wouldn't happen to be your construction company gonna get the bid on building this thing, would it, H.L. And Jorge, you wouldn't be thinking about a couple dozen new jobs to dangle in front of the voters
SAM: We need a drug rehab program, we need a new elementary school
JORGE: There isn't money allocated for that. But a jail
SAM: Look, I'm not gonna campaign against your deal here, but if anybody asks me, I got to tell them the truth. We don'tneeda new jail.
SAM: When you backed me you needed somebody named Deeds to bump the other fella out of office. Hey, Sam and the others smile as they reach the CROWD of townspeople, mostly small business owners and retired people. Photographers from the paper and a local TV news crew wait by a veiled Statue roped off in a little traffic island. Mercedes, dressed to kill, stands waiting next to Hollis with a huge pair of scissors in her hand.
CU MERCEDES: Slowly working the blades of the scissors, she looks coldly at Sam
CU SAM: He nods to her as the crowd opens a path for him.
SAM: Let's get this thing over with.
MIKEY: Never thought I'd see the day a buddy of mine was dating a woman with three up and three down on her shoulder.
CLIFF: I think it's beyond what you'd call You going to get married?
MIKEY: You going to get married?
CLIFF: ( Shrugs ) You met her family? They gonna be cool about you being a white guy?
MIKEY: You met her family? They gonna be cool about you being a white guy?
CLIFF: Priscilla says they think any woman over 30 who isn't married must be a lesbian. She figures they'll be so relieved I'm a man
MIKEY: Always heartwarming to see a prejudice defeated by a deeper prejudice. But marriage, manI did two tours in Southeast Asia and I was married for five yearsI couldn't tell you which experience was worse. Cliff picks up a slug
CLIFF: Hey, Mikey
MIKEY: I knew she was Japanese going into it, but she didn't tell me the ninja assassin part
CLIFF: Her parents acted like I was gonna blow my nose on their curtains
MIKEY: Her parents acted like I was gonna blow my nose on their curtains
CLIFF: If I stayed out past ten with the guys she'd go into her Madame Butterfly routine
MIKEY: If I stayed out past ten with the guys she'd go into her Madame Butterfly routine
CLIFF: Mikey look at this
MIKEY: Whatit's a bullet. I'm lousy with bullets here.
CLIFF: It's a .45.
MIKEY: This is the stuff we picked up the other day, right? The rest of this is all .30 caliber
CLIFF: This is the stuff we picked up the other day, right? The rest of this is all .30 caliber
MIKEY: They were using M-1's, yeah
CLIFF: What's it doing on a rifle range? MIKEY holds the slug in front of his face
MIKEY: We better call that Sheriff.
HOLLIS: Sometime in the early '70s a reporter from a national magazine was talking to the governor of our Lone Star state, and he asked him, "Governor, what's your ideal of what a real Texan ought to be?" Governor said, "That's easy, son- you just go down to Rio County and get a look at Sheriff Buddy Deeds." Watching the crowd
SAM: Watching the crowd
SAM'S POV: We PAN with his gaze across smiling faces, till he comes to Danny and a couple of Chicano friends, looking grim. We RACK FOCUS beyond them to see Pilar, watching the ceremony from a few yards back
HOLLIS: and he's somebody who probably knew Buddy better than any of us, Samwould you say a few words?
HOLLIS: and he's somebody who probably knew Buddy better than any of us, Samwould you say a few words?
SAM: Not thrilled to be called on. He steps forward reluctantly to APPLAUSE
SAM: You folks who remember my father knew him as Sheriff. But at home he was also judge, jury He looks to Hollis
SAM: and executioner. LAUGHTER. Sam holds Hollis's eyes for a moment before This is a real honor you're doing him today, and if Buddy was around I'm sure his hat size would be gettin' bigger every minute.
SAM: This is a real honor you're doing him today, and if Buddy was around I'm sure his hat size would be gettin' bigger every minute.
PILAR: SAM ( O.S. ) I used to come to this park to hide from him. Now that you're putting his name on it
SAM: I'll have to find someplace new to duck out. More LAUGHTER
SAM: I'll have to find someplace new to duck out. More LAUGHTER
SAM: I do appreciate it, and wherever he is, Buddy's puttin' the beer on ice for the bunch of you. Thank you.
APPLAUSE: Sam steps back and Mercedes steps forward with her scissors without looking at him
HOLLIS: And now my fellow Council member and one of Frontera's most respected businesswomen, Mrs. Mercedes Cruz, will do the honors for us.
MERCEDES: She freezes, smiling, till the still photographers have gotten their shots, then snips the cord to a pulley system that lets the cloth drop
STATUE: The cloth drops to reveal a bas-relief in brass set in a block of smooth limestone. A decent likeness of Buddy in uniform, his hand on the shoulder of a small Chicano-looking boy who stands beside him, eyes raised worshipfully. APPLAUSE from the gathering
SAM: Watching, a bit removed, as Mercedes shakes hands with Jorge and H.L. and Hollis for the cameras. He overhears a pair of BYSTANDERS who are checking out the statue
SAM: Nice to see you, Mrs. Cruz. Mercedes just looks at him, keeps going. His gaze brings him to Pilar, standing on the sidewalk, watching.
SAM: Steps over from the dispersing crowd
SAM: Field trip?
PILAR: Lunch hour. My next class isn't till Want to take a walk?
SAM: Want to take a walk?
SAM: Your mother still doesn't like me.
PILAR: I can't name anybody she does like these days.
SAM: I see she built a place up here by the river.
PILAR: A real palace. She rattles around alone in that thing
SAM: She's done well for herselfon her own and all
PILAR: So she tells me three times a week. She looks at him
PILAR: I thought you got through that pretty They cooked the whole thing up without asking me.
SAM: They cooked the whole thing up without asking me.
PILAR: People liked him.
SAM: Most people did, yeah.
PILAR: I remember him watching me once. When I was littlebefore you and I She shrugs.
PILAR: I was on the playground with all the other kids, but I thought he was only looking at me. I was afraid he was going to arrest mehe had those eyes, you know
SAM: Weird what you remember. They walk in silence a moment
PILAR: Weird what you remember. They walk in silence a moment
SAM: Your boy, there
PILAR: Nice-looking kid.
SAM: Nice-looking kid.
PILAR: He hates me.
SAM: With Paloma, it's more like she pities and tolerates me- totally age- appropriate. But Amadohe'she's never been book-smart. Had a hard time learning to read. Me being a teacher and caring about those things is like an embarrassmentlike a Fernando did okay, and he dropped Fernando wasn't pissed off at everybody. He just wanted to fix their cars.
PILAR: With Paloma, it's more like she pities and tolerates me- totally age- appropriate. But Amadohe'she's never been book-smart. Had a hard time learning to read. Me being a teacher and caring about those things is like an embarrassmentlike a Fernando did okay, and he dropped Fernando wasn't pissed off at everybody. He just wanted to fix their cars.
SAM: Fernando did okay, and he dropped Fernando wasn't pissed off at everybody. He just wanted to fix their cars.
PILAR: Fernando wasn't pissed off at everybody. He just wanted to fix their cars.
SAM: It might just be the age. I spent my first fifteen years trying to be just like Buddy and the next fifteen trying to give him a heart attack. She looks at him
PILAR: So why did you come back here, Sam?
SAM: Got divorced, I wasn't gonna work for my father-in-law anymore. The fellas down here said they'd back me
PILAR: You don't want to be Sheriff.
SAM: I got to admit it's not what I thought it'd be. Back When Buddy had it hell, I'm just a jailer. Run a 60- room hotel with bars on the windows.
PILAR: It can happen so sudden, can't it? Being left out on your own.
SAM: You've got your mother, your kids
PILAR: They've got me. Different thing. They stop at a spot where you can climb down the bank
SAM: Remember this? Pilar looks at the spot. She isn't ready to deal with whatever memory it brings back
PILAR: I should get back.
SAM: Looks real bad if the teacher's late for class. It's really nice to talk with you, Sam. She waves and walks away, feeling awkward. Sam watches for a minute, then turns and steps down to the bank, He looks at the water.
PILAR: Looks real bad if the teacher's late for class. It's really nice to talk with you, Sam. She waves and walks away, feeling awkward. Sam watches for a minute, then turns and steps down to the bank, He looks at the water.
RIVER SURFACE: A little piece of tree bark is tossed onto the water and drifts away with the current. We TILT UP to see YOUNG PILAR tossing bark into the river as YOUNG SAM sits on the bank beside her. They are 14 and 15 years oldIt is 1972
YOUNG SAM: You going to tell her?
YOUNG PILAR: You going to tell him?
YOUNG SAM: He doesn't need to know all my He's gonna find out.
YOUNG PILAR: He's gonna find out.
YOUNG SAM: So? What's he gonna do, arrest us? Young Pilar frowns, tosses more bark
YOUNG PILAR: It's supposed to be some big sin, even if you love each other.
YOUNG SAM: You believe that?
YOUNG PILAR: We PAN with her gaze to see Sam, PRESENT DAY, sitting on the bank, lost in thought
SAM: Me neither.
PRISCILLA: Private Johnson!
ATHENA: Report to Dr. Innis at the clinic.
PRISCILLA: Report to Dr. Innis at the clinic.
ATHENA: I'm feeling okay
PRISCILLA: I'm very happy to hear that, Private. Now you go put some pee-pee in a cup for Dr. Innis and I'll be feeling okay, too.
ATHENA: ( Reacts ) You're testing me?
PRISCILLA: You and one hundred nineteen other fortunate individuals. Put it in Yes, Sergeant. Sergeant Worth watches Athena go, suspicious
ATHENA: Yes, Sergeant. Sergeant Worth watches Athena go, suspicious
RAY: Excellent performance, my friend. The judge was very impressed.
SHADOW: You don't need to cuff me.
RAY: You been talking so much trash today, you made us think you're a dangerous criminal. Be a good boy, now They guide him past Sam's desk
SHADOW: You're the one who's a good boy. Man say "fetch" and you fetch
RAY: Just doing my job.
SHADOW: White man just using you to keep the Black man down.
RAY: This isn't Houston, my friend. We pretty much running things now. Our good day has come.
SHADOW: You suckers haven't had a good day since the Alamo. Ray smiles, pushes him out
RAY: Andale, amigo, We HOLD on Sam at his desk, TIGHTENING as he holds the .45 slug from the sergeants in front of his eyes
SAM: Lupe? Get me the rangers up in Austin
WIDER, MERCEDES: Mercedes, exhausted from a day at the cafe, pours herself a Scotch and soda
MERCEDES: Otra vez los mojados[Wetbacks Mercedes searches to find a portable phone on the patio table, punches a number in
MERCEDES: Hello? Border Patrol?
CU SAM: Working something out in his head. He looks off into the dark and we PAN with his gazeA MAN steps toward us, barely visible in the darkness. It is Charley WadeWe're in Sam's REVERIE, in 1957
WADE: Who is that? Come out here where I can see you! BLAM! A GUNSHOT, and Wade falls to his knees
WADE: You sonofabitch Wade falls on his face. A FLASHLIGHT BEAM flicks ON and plays over his body. We PAN back along the be to see Buddy, holstering his Pistol. He hears something, swings the flashlight up.
SAM: We are back in 1995. Sam is blasted in the face with a
FLASHLIGHT BEAM: PATROLMAN ( O.S. ) Hold it right there! Brazos arriba! Sam, squinting toward the light to see who it is, raises his hands over his head
SAM: The FLASHLIGHT BEAM PANS AWAY and ZACK POLLARD, a Border Patrol agent, steps out of the dark to Sam
ZACK: Hey Sam. Sorry 'bout that.
SAM: What's up?
ZACK: We had about a dozen wets come over just upriver. They ran into one of our postsit was like a breakshot on a pool table, illegals runnin' every which way.
SAM: I haven't seen anybody come by.
ZACK: We'll get 'em So you livin' out here now?
SAM: Yeah. It's quiet
ZACK: I heard about that deal for your fatherYou must be real proud.
SAM: The stories people tell, he was a real colorful fella
ZACK: The stories people tell, he was a real colorful fella
ZACK: Wellback on the clock. You see any of our neighbors from the south, let 'em know I'm lookin' for 'em.
SAM: Zack steps away. Sam shakes the pecans still in his band, goes back to chucking them
PILAR: PALOMA ( O.S. ) You gonna stay out here?
PILAR: For a while. A silence. They listen to the RECORD
PILAR: ( Smiles ) What do you think?
FADE OUT: INT. SHERIFF'S OFFICE EARLY MORNING Sam has been up since dawn, searching through piles of old department records. Papers cover his desk and the chairs he's dragged over next to it. He reads out loud himself from a report in front of him
SAM: First bullet entered beneath the left eye, severing the optical nerve and exiting from top rear of skull causing tissue damage
CU SAM: Intent as he pores over the paperwork
LEGAL PAD: We TILT DOWN to read various notes Sam has writtenReynaldo Garcia killed by Shf Wade3/49 Hollis Kinney hired by Shf Dep.9/51 Lucas Johnson k. by Shf Wade7/53 Horace Gaines k. by Shf Wade1/54 Santiago Huerta k. by Shf Wade4/54 Rifle range closed9/56 Eladio Cruz k. by Shf Wade12/56 Buddy Deeds hired by Shf Dep.2/57 Shf Wade disappears 3/57 $10,000 cnty funds missing Buddy Deeds new Shf We come to Sam's hand, writing, when it clears we can read the last entry Mercedes Cruz hired as cook, Rio Co. jail4/57 ?????
CU SAM: Trying to put it all together. PETE ZAYAS, a skinny, older man in trustee's coveralls, wanders in, emptying the trash baskets in the front office
PETE: Morning, Sheriff.
SAM: Hey, Pete. How's it going?
PETE: Time marches on.
SAM: How much you got left?
PETE: Three months.
SAM: You stop growing that loco weed at your place, you'd see a lot more It was for personal consumption.
PETE: It was for personal consumption.
SAM: You're going to smoke an acre and a half of marijuana?
PETE: I got a bad stomach. It helps me Pete dumps out the basket by Sam
PETE: Your father never bothered me about it. Leastways not till the drug people got on his back in the late '60s.
SAM: I thought he busted you a couple Different charge. I had a still. Made my own mescal. Sam looks up at him.
PETE: Different charge. I had a still. Made my own mescal. Sam looks up at him.
PETE: That's how I ruined my stomach.
SAM: ( Smiles ) I'm surprised he bothered with it.
PETE: He was afraid I was going to poison somebody. Your father tried to do good for people
SAM: So I've heard
PETE: And your mother was a saint. That summer I built the patio at your house? She made me lunch every day.
SAM: Well, you were working there
PETE: It could have just been a box lunch from the jail. Sam looks up again, troubled.
SAM: You built our patio while you were on the county?
PETE: Out in the fresh air, nice gringo lady making you pieswho's gonna sit back in a little jail cell all day? Sheriff Buddy, man. Como el no hay dos. And after that cabron Charley I've heard Wade was a bit tough on the Mexicans
SAM: I've heard Wade was a bit tough on the Mexicans
PETE: He murdered Eladio Cruz. That tough enough for you?
SAM: Murdered him?
PETE: Chucho Montoya saw it with his own eyes. Shot him in cold blood.
RAY: You're out early.
SAM: Haven't seen much of you at the jail I been working on a few things.
RAY: Haven't seen much of you at the jail I been working on a few things.
SAM: I been working on a few things.
RAY: I'm going over to the other side.
SAM: I'm going over to the other side.
RAY: ( Concerned ) The Republicans?
SAM: Noto Mexico. I've got to talk to They got telephones.
RAY: They got telephones.
SAM: Gotta be in person.
RAY: An awkward silence. Sam sits into the driver's seal and Ray leans down to talk
RAY: Sam? Ithe Committeeyou know Jorge and H.L. and allthey asked me
SAM: They want you to stand for Sheriff next election.
RAY: You'd do a good job.
SAM: You'd do a good job.
RAY: How 'bout you?
SAM: Don't know if I'll still want it.
RAY: I didn't want to be going around your back.
SAM: I appreciate you telling me. Sam looks at his Chief Deputy
SAM: You think we need a new jail?
RAY: Well, it's a complicated issue Sam smiles, turns the engine on
SAM: Yeah, Ray, you'd be a hell of a EXT. SCHOOL MORNING Pilar sits with Amado on the football field bleachers before school starts
PILAR: I'm only going to have you for two more years. If you decide not to go on to college
AMADO: I can't take any more school.
PILAR: you're going to be on your own.
AMADO: So I'm worried about you. I don't want you to end up in jail like your They're not going to jail.
PILAR: So I'm worried about you. I don't want you to end up in jail like your They're not going to jail.
AMADO: They're not going to jail.
PILAR: Don't try to con me, Amado. You knew how they got all those things.
AMADO: Just some rich Anglo out on the lake. Don't even live here all year.
PILAR: That makes it okay?
AMADO: They stole our land
PILAR: Save your breath. That line doesn't cut it with me. A silence. Amado sulks.
PILAR: How do you think you're going to make a living?
AMADO: I can fix cars.
PILAR: You can fix old cars. Mr. Washburn told me that the cars they're making now are all computerized
AMADO: You think I can't learn that?
PILAR: I think you can learn whatever you want to. I just don't see you doing it. If you want to settle for
AMADO: I'm not settling for anything. I like cars, it's just not a move up the ladder to you, so you think it's a waste.
PILAR: That isn't true.
AMADO: Oh, come onyou and Grandma think anybody who works with their hands is a peasant. When Dad
PILAR: If you grew up to he anywhere near as good a man as your father was, I would be happy! I would be thrilled. They look, at each other for a long moment.
AMADO: It's my life. If I want to fuck it up, that's my business.
PILAR: ( Nods ) I said pretty much the same thing to my mother when I was your age.
AMADO: And what did she do?
PILAR: Two years at hard labor, Our Lady of Perpetual Help.
AMADO: Catholic school, nasty. Pilar is nearly in tears.
PILAR: Honey, I think you're smart and you're good and I love you. So don't act like an idiot, all right?
CHUCHO: Recycling, right? We invented that. The government doesn't have to tell people to do it.
SAM: You own this place?
CHUCHO: This place, the one across the street, four other ones around Ciudad Leon soy el Rey de las Llantas. King of the Tires. Lots of your people rollin' back over that bridge on my rubber.
SAM: ( Nods ) You lived in the States for a while?
CHUCHO: Fifteen years in El Paso.
SAM: Made some money, came back here
CHUCHO: Something like that.
SAM: You ever know a fella named Eladio CHUCHO smiles, draws a line in the dirt with his heel
CHUCHO: You the sheriff of Rio County, right? Un jefe muy respetado. Step over this line. Sam obliges
CHUCHO: Ay, que milagro! You're not the Sheriff of nothing anymore- just some tejano with a lot of questions I don't have to answer. Sam smiles, plays with the line with his toe
CHUCHO: Bird flying south-you think he sees that line? Rattlesnake, javelina whatever you gothalfway across that line they don't start thinking different. So why should a man?
SAM: Your government always been pretty happy to have that line. The question's just been where to draw CU CHUCHO My government can go fuck itself, and so can yours. I'm talking about people heremen. Mi amigo Eladio Cruz is giving some friends of his a lift in his camion one day We PAN from CHUCHO to the FLAT TIRE on a battered old pickup but because he's on one side of this invisible line and not the other, they got to hide in the back like Eladio CRUZ, young and good-looking, squats into the shot to examine the tire, jack in hand. It Is 1956
CU CHUCHO: My government can go fuck itself, and so can yours. I'm talking about people heremen. Mi amigo Eladio Cruz is giving some friends of his a lift in his camion one day We PAN from CHUCHO to the FLAT TIRE on a battered old pickup but because he's on one side of this invisible line and not the other, they got to hide in the back like Eladio CRUZ, young and good-looking, squats into the shot to examine the tire, jack in hand. It Is 1956
CHUCHO: My government can go fuck itself, and so can yours. I'm talking about people heremen. Mi amigo Eladio Cruz is giving some friends of his a lift in his camion one day We PAN from CHUCHO to the FLAT TIRE on a battered old pickup but because he's on one side of this invisible line and not the other, they got to hide in the back like Eladio CRUZ, young and good-looking, squats into the shot to examine the tire, jack in hand. It Is 1956
ELADIO: Donde vas, Chucho, Tienes que quedar escondido! [Shit, CHUCHO you got to stay hidden!]
YOUNG CHUCHO: Voy a romper las rinones si no hago pipi[I'm gonna bust my kidneys if I don't pee] We TRACK back with Young CHUCHO to see we are at the side of a dirt road on the scrubby flatland near the border. Eladio's battered pickup truck has wood-slat sides and a canvas top. Eladio begins to undo the nuts on the flat tire as Young CHUCHO climbs down into a dry creek bed to relieve himself
YOUNG CHUCHO: Los demas son tan espantados que prefieran mojar sus pantalones. [The other guys are so scared they'd rather wet their pants.] CHUCHO tightens as he sees something, ducks down
YOUNG CHUCHO: Mira, Eladio [Look!] We PAN to see the Sheriff's car approaching in a cloud of
DUST: ( Calling from where he lies changing the tire ) Muchachos! Escondases! [Boys! Hide INT. REAR OF TRUCK Eight illegal WORKERS hear this and lie down, pulling a canvas tarp over themselves. We hear the CAR STOP behind them
ELADIO: ( Calling from where he lies changing the tire ) Muchachos! Escondases! [Boys! Hide INT. REAR OF TRUCK Eight illegal WORKERS hear this and lie down, pulling a canvas tarp over themselves. We hear the CAR STOP behind them
ROAD: Sheriff Wade and Deputy Hollis get out of their car and start toward Eladio
ELADIO: He stands, takes a deep breathWade steps up to him with his hard-eyed smile
WADE: Hola, amgio. Problemas de llanta? [Hey, friend. Tire problems?]
ELADIO: No hay de que. Tengo otra. [No problem, I've got another.]
WADE: What's in the back?
ELADIO: Not much, jefe. Some watermelons.
WADE: I heard somebody been haulin' wets on this road.
ELADIO: I haven't seen anybody doing that.
WADE: This same person been bragging all over the county how he don't have to cut that big gringo Sheriff in on it he can run his own operation 'thout any help. Como se llama, amigo?
ELADIO: Eladio Cruz.
WADE: You know this road got a bad reputation, Eladio
ELADIO: Bandidos, Injuns
WADE: Bandidos, Injuns
WADE: There's many an unfortunate soul been ambushed out on this stretch. Hope you're carrying some protection.
ELADIO: You carryin' a firearm, son? Don't lie to me now.
WADE: You carryin' a firearm, son? Don't lie to me now.
ELADIO: Sitengo escopetojust a shotgun
WADE: Just a shotgun, huh? Better let me take a look at that. ELADIO opens the truck door and digs under the seat. Wade winks to Hollis, then turns and BLAM! shoots ELADIO through the head. Hollis jumps back startled and horrified
YOUNG HOLLIS: Oh nooh Jesusoh my Lord
WADE: Little greaser sonofabitch been running a goddarn bus service. Think he can make a fool out of Charley Wade! Get them wets outta the back, Hollis, see what we've got
CU CHUCHO: Squatting in a ball to make himself as small as possible, eyes covered with his hands.
WIDER: Hollis and a couple of MEN from the Public Work Department look at the damage.
HOLLIS: It happens again, we build a fence around it.
ZACK: Podemos ganar muchas batallas pero la guerra ya es perdido[We can win a lot of battles but the war's already been lost] Zack and another BORDER PATROLMAN look up at him
CU ENRIQUE: Eyes glued to his notepad
ENRIQUE: You wan' something to drink?
WESLEY: but longhorns are hard to come by these days.
SAM: You sell much out here?
WESLEY: How am I gonna sell things if nobody comes by? This stretch of road runs between Nowheres and Nothin' Much.
SAM: Hell of a spot to put a business.
WESLEY: But you don't see much competition, do you? He winks at Sam, picks up a wooden radio carved to resemble the Alamo
WESLEY: These things used to sell like hotcakes. Now, if it can't play those discs, they won't look at it. He puts the radio on, looks out at the emptiness around
WESLEY: I like it here. Once I tried going onto that reservation to live. Couldn't take the politics. Damn Indian'll drive you crazy with that, Now your fatherthis wasn't what he had in mind at all. He come out of Korea, he had this Chevy with too much engine in it. He'd come roarin' up and down this road all hours of the day and night,looking for somebody to race. He lifts a jar with a leathery brown thing in it
WESLEY: Buffalo chips. Fella in Santa Fe told me he sells these as fast as the buffalo can squeeze 'em out.
SAM: So when did Buddy leave?
WESLEY: For Frontera? Hell, I can't remember dates no more. I do recall it was after an affair of the heart had gone sour on him. He almost took some poor fella's head off at the Legion in Arroyo Grande, and figured it was time to move on.
SAM: You think he killed anybody in Korea?
WESLEY: They don't hand those medals out for hidin'in your foxhole. Would you buy Me neither. He searches for something among the curios
SAM: Me neither. He searches for something among the curios
WESLEY: Me neither. He searches for something among the curios
WESLEY: If he hadn't found that Deputy job, I believe Buddy might've gone down the other path, got into some serious trouble. Settled him right down. That and your mother. 'Course he had that other one later.
SAM: Another woman?
WESLEY: Your mother wasn't one to get chased off her patch. Half the damn county knew and nobody thought the worse of her for seein' it through.
SAM: You know who it was?
WESLEY: The other one? Hell, at my age, every time you learn a new name you got to forget an old one. Your head's all crowded uphere it is Wesley stretches out a four-foot rattlesnake skin, rattles still attached
WESLEY: This big fella was sleepin' in a crate at Cisco's junkyard right when I looked to see what was in it. Jumped up at my facescared me so bad I killed him without thinkin'. He shakes the rattles at Sam
WESLEY: Gotta be careful where you're pokin' who knows what you'll find.
PILAR: I don't think you can take it I'd like to see them spend a day pulling 14-year-olds off of each otherI should get combat pay
MOLLY: I'd like to see them spend a day pulling 14-year-olds off of each otherI should get combat pay
PILAR: I have new respect for some of my kids, meeting the parents they've been dealt Molly keeps going as Pilar ducks into the office
PILAR: See you, Molly.
MARISOL: Steve called for you.
PILAR: Steve. Board of Education Steve who likes you? He goes for us hot-blooded Mexican girls, I can tell.
MARISOL: Steve. Board of Education Steve who likes you? He goes for us hot-blooded Mexican girls, I can tell.
PILAR: Spanish, please. My mother would have a heart attack.
MARISOL: Your mother's family is Spanish?
PILAR: Sure, they go back to Cortez. When he rode by, they were squatting in a hut cooking hamsters for dinner.
MARISOL: You got to be interested in somebody. All you do is work.
PILAR: All my mother does is work. That's how you get to be Spanish.
MARISOL: How 'bout the Sheriff?
PILAR: The Sheriff.
MARISOL: The old-high-school-heartthrob Sheriff. I thought you were crazy about each other. He's available, you're available
PILAR: I'm unmarried. I'm not available.
MARISOL: You told me one time it was true PILAR takes the pile of mimeos and mail from her slot and turns to go
PILAR: ( Mutters ) Nobody stays in love for twenty-three EXT. DRIVE-IN MOVIE NIGHT It is 1972. An early-'70s cheezy action picture ( Filipino women-in-chains or biker flick is playing. We TILT DOWN to a man's BOOTS crunching across the gravel of the parking area. Now and then, the man turns a FLASHLIGHT BEAM on a license plate. The cars are all pre-'72, lots of pickups, and the patrons are almost all TEENAGERS. Some have turned their pickups around to sit on the tailgate and watch, while others have set lawn furniture out to sit on. We TILT UP slightly to see the glint of a Rio County Sheriff's badge pinned on the man's shirt. He meets a DEPUTY coming in the other direction. Both train their FLASHLIGHTS on the license of the car we see in the b.g. between them. We TILT and RACK to see that nobody is visible through the window
BUDDY: Buddy grabs Sam's ankles and yanks him out of the car onto the ground as the Deputy awkwardly pulls PILAR, out the other
YOUNG SAM: What the hell are you doing? You fucking asshole!
BUDDY: How old is that girl? Goddammit, where's your goddam sense?
YOUNG SAM: You got no fuckin' right! You stay out of my fuckin' life!
BUDDY: Gimme the keysgimme the goddamn car keys, son
BUDDY: You drive her home and tell her mother where we found her
YOUNG SAM: You leave her the fuck alone!
BUDDY: You just shut that filthy mouth, son. I'll deal with you when we get Please, don't tell my mother! She's gonna kill me! They step closer into the glaring HEADLIGHTS which WHITE OUT the scene, then FADE.
YOUNG PILAR: Please, don't tell my mother! She's gonna kill me! They step closer into the glaring HEADLIGHTS which WHITE OUT the scene, then FADE.
CU SAM: Remembering. MUSIC BEGINS as he gets back into the car, pulls MARQUEE DUSK MUSIC CONTINUES as the car cruises out past the old marquee, a few letters still jumbled on it, several bullet holes around INT. CAR MUSIC CONTINUES as Sam drives, thinking
PILAR: ( Softly ) Follow me.
PILAR: We thought we were something, didn't I look at my kids in schooltenth, eleventh graders. That's who we were. I mean what did we know about Pilar looks at him
SAM: I look at my kids in schooltenth, eleventh graders. That's who we were. I mean what did we know about Pilar looks at him
PILAR: I look at my kids in schooltenth, eleventh graders. That's who we were. I mean what did we know about Pilar looks at him
SAM: I mean what did we know about Pilar looks at him
PILAR: I mean what did we know about Pilar looks at him
SAM: Pilar looks at him
PILAR: When Nando diedit was so suddenI was kind of in shock for awhile. Then I woke up and there was the whole rest of my life and I didn't have any idea what to do with it.
SAM: You know the other day, you asked why I came back?
PILAR: I came back 'cause you were here. PILAR nods. She gets up and we FOLLOW her across the dark room to the jukebox. She looks at the selections
SAM: I came back 'cause you were here. PILAR nods. She gets up and we FOLLOW her across the dark room to the jukebox. She looks at the selections
PILAR: My mother hasn't changed the songs since I was 10. She puts in a quarter, punches some numbers. A Mexican BALLAD comes on. She crosses back to Sam, holds her hand out. He stands to greet her. They slow-dance in the empty cafe
PILAR: How come it feels the same?
SAM: How come it feels the same?
PILAR: How come it feels the same?
SAM: I don't know. It just feels good. Always did.
PILAR: So what are we gonna do about this?
SAM: More, I hope. PILAR smiles, looks around the room
PILAR: How long have you lived here?
SAM: Two years.
PILAR: There's nothing on the walls. No Don't have kids. Other picturesI don't knowit's nothing I want to look back on.
SAM: Don't have kids. Other picturesI don't knowit's nothing I want to look back on.
PILAR: Like your story is over.
SAM: I've felt that way, yeah. Sbe puts her head on his cbest
PILAR: It isn't. Not by a long shot. He holds her and they lie silently for a moment
SAM: What was your father's name?
PILAR: What was your father's name?
SAM: What was your father's name?
PILAR: Eladio. Eladio. Cruz.
PALOMA: She finally got in
PILAR: It's Saturday.
PALOMA: You got in late last night.
PILAR: Yeah. I had uhmschool business. Paloma gives her a look, then holds a fashion page up for her to see
PALOMA: Can I get this?
PILAR: Nobody really wears that stuff, I could name five girls at school who have one just like it
PALOMA: I could name five girls at school who have one just like it
PILAR: Enough with the clothes
PALOMA: Just 'cause you went to Catholic school and wore a uniform.
PILAR: I only went for my last two years.
PALOMA: How come?
PILAR: Oh, my mother wanted to keep me away from away from boys. PILAR steps out into the sun
PALOMA: Did it work?
SAM: Morning, Hollis.
HOLLIS: Sam! Quite a do the other day. It meant a lot to folks that you said You thought any more about our murder?
SAM: You thought any more about our murder?
HOLLIS: We have a murder?
SAM: Charley Wade.
HOLLIS: I wish I could tell you I remembered something new, but I can't.
SAM: I got an idea what happened.
HOLLIS: Do you?
SAM: I think somewhere between Roderick Bledsoe's club and his house, Wade ran into Buddy Deeds. I think Buddy put a bullet in him, waited for him to die, threw him in the trunk of the Sheriff's car and drove him out by the Army post, I think he buried him under four feet of sand and never looked back. Hollis sits back to look Sam in the eye
HOLLIS: You lived in the man's house what seventeen, eighteen years? And you didn't get to know him any better than that?
SAM: I got to go see somebody in San Antonio today. Your memory gets any better, I'll be back tonight. Sam stands and walks away. We HOLD on Hollis, his appetite EXT. BIG O'S MORNING Chet steps around to the side entrance
OTIS: Spanish in Florida called him Juan Caballo. John Horse.
CHET: ( Looks at picture ) He a Black man or an Indian?
OTIS: ( Steps in ) Otis crosses to the poker table, begins to clean up
OTIS: He was part of the Seminole Nation, got pushed down into the Everglades in pioneer days. African people who run off from the slaveholders hooked up with them, married up, had children. When the Spanish give up Florida, the U.S.Army come down to move all them Indian peoples off to The Trail of Tears.
CHET: The Trail of Tears.
OTIS: ( Smiles ) They teaching that now? Good. Only a couple of 'em held outthis man, John Horse, and his friend Wild Cat, and a fella name of Osceola. Army put all of them in prison and Osceola died, but them other two escaped and put together a fighting band and held out another ten, fifteen years. Beat Zach Taylor and a thousand troops at Lake Okeechobee.
CHET: So they stayed in Florida?
OTIS: They got tired of fighting, went to the Indian Territories for a while. But the slave-raiders were on 'em even there, and one night they packed up and nearly the whole band rode down to Mexico. Crossed at Eagle They move on to some photos of very African-looking people dressed in beautiful Seminole clothing
OTIS: Men worked for Santa Anna down there, waited out the Civil War. The land wasn't much to feed people on, so in 1870 they come north and put up at Fort Duncan and the men joined up what was called the Seminole Negro Indian Scouts. Best trackers either side of the border. Bandits, rustlers, Texas rednecks, Kiowa, Comanche
CHET: They fought against the Indians?
OTIS: Same as they done in Mexico.
CHET: But they were Indians themselves.
OTIS: They were in the Army. Like your You know who I am?
CHET: ( Surprised ) You know who I am?
OTIS: I got a pretty good guess.
CHET: That guy who got shot
OTIS: You didn't go telling your father you were here?
CHET: Are you kidding? And face a court- He's a pretty tough old man, huh?
OTIS: ( Smiles ) He's a pretty tough old man, huh?
CHET: No sports if I don't keep a B average, no TV on school nights, no PDA's
OTIS: Public Display of Affection. Every time he moves up a rank, it's like he's got to tighten the screws a little more
PDA?: Public Display of Affection. Every time he moves up a rank, it's like he's got to tighten the screws a little more
CHET: Public Display of Affection. Every time he moves up a rank, it's like he's got to tighten the screws a little more
OTIS: I mean, just 'cause he didn'tyou Didn't have a father?
CHET: I mean, just 'cause he didn'tyou Didn't have a father?
OTIS: Didn't have a father?
CHET: ( Shrugs ) He's still pissed off about it.
OTIS: When you're his age you'll still be pissed off about him. Chet nods, looks around
CHET: So how come you got into all this?
OTIS: These are our people. There were Paynes in Florida, Oklahoma, Piedras Negrascouple of 'em won the whatsit Congressional Medal Of Honor
CHET: So I'm part-Indian?
OTIS: By blood you are. But blood only means what you let it.
CHET: My father says the day you're born you start from scratch, no breaks and no excuses, and you got to pull yourself up on your own.
OTIS: ( Sad ) Well, he's living proof of that, son. Living proof.
DEL: Private Johnson, are you unhappy in the Army?
ATHENA: No, sir
DEL: Then how would you explain the fact that out of one hundred twenty people we tested, you're the only one who came up positive for drugs?
ATHENA: I'm sorry, sir.
DEL: When you were given the opportunity to enlist, a kind of contract was agreed upon. I think the Army has honored its part of that agreement.
ATHENA: Yes, sir
DEL: Do you believe in what we're doing here, Private Johnson?
ATHENA: I-I can do the job, sir.
DEL: You don't sound too enthusiastic.
ATHENA: I am, sir.
DEL: What exactly do you think your job is, Private?
ATHENA: Follow orders. Do whatever they say.
DEL: Who's "they"?
ATHENA: Thethe officers.
DEL: And that's the job? Nothing about serving your country? Athena is confused, hesitates to speak
DEL: These aren't trick questions, Private. You'll be given an Article 15 and be going into the ADCAP Program one way or the other. What happens after that is up to you. I'm just trying to understand how somebody like you You really want to know, sir?
DEL: ( Hesitant ) You really want to know, sir?
ATHENA: ( Hesitant ) You really want to know, sir?
DEL: It's their country. This is one of the best deals they offer. Del knows he asked for it, but doesn't like the answer
ATHENA: It's their country. This is one of the best deals they offer. Del knows he asked for it, but doesn't like the answer
DEL: How do you think I got to be a Work hard, be good at your job. Sir. Do whatever they tell you.
ATHENA: Work hard, be good at your job. Sir. Do whatever they tell you.
DEL: Do whatever they tell you
ATHENA: I mean, follow orders, sir.
DEL: With your attitude, Private, I'm surprised you want to stay in the I do, sir.
ATHENA: I do, sir.
DEL: Because it's a job?
ATHENA: ( Struggling ) Outside it'sit's such a messit's
DEL: Athena is sure she's overstepped her rank
DEL: Why do you think they let us in on the "deal"?
ATHENA: They got people to fight. Arabs, yellow people, whatever. Might as well use us.
DEL: Do you think you've been discriminated against on this post?
ATHENA: No, sir. Not at all.
DEL: Any serious problems with your sergeant or your fellow soldiers?
ATHENA: No, sir. They all been real straight with me. Del stands, thinking, trying not to bullshit her
DEL: It works like this, Privateevery soldier in a war doesn't have to believe in what he's fighting for. Most of them fight just to back up the soldiers in their squadyou try not to get them killed, try not to get them extra duty, try not to embarrass yourself in front of them. He is right in her face now
DEL: Why don't you start with that?
ATHENA: Yes, sir.
DEL: You're dismissed, Private.
ATHENA: Thank you, sir. Athena salutes, steps out. Del looks out the window, troubled by the encounter.
BUNNY: The Longhorns gonna kick some serious butt this Saturday, you just watch. We got a kid at tailback from down your wayoutta El Indio
BUNNY: Oh. Right. And you're in?
SAM: Rio. BUNNY Right. This kid, Hosea Brown? Does tire 40 in 3.4, soft hands, lateral movementthe whole package. Only a sophomore
SAM: You still going to all the home games?
BUNNY: Well, Daddy's got his box at the stadium, of course, and I'll fly to the Cowboy away games when they're in the Conference. Then there's the high school on Friday' nights. West Side got a boy 6'6", 310, moves like a cat. High school, we're talkin'. Guess how much he can bench-press?
SAM: Bunny, youuhmyou on that same Do I seem jumpy?
BUNNY: Do I seem jumpy?
SAM: No, you look good. I was just Last year was awful roughMama passing on and the whole business with O.J.I mean it's not like it was Don Meredith or Roger Staubach or one of our own boys, but it really knocked me for a loop
BUNNY: Last year was awful roughMama passing on and the whole business with O.J.I mean it's not like it was Don Meredith or Roger Staubach or one of our own boys, but it really knocked me for a loop
SAM: You look good
BUNNY: and that squeaker the Aggies dropped to Oklahoma-sonofabitch stepped in some lucky shit before he kicked that goal
SAM: Yeah, well
BUNNY: they hadn't pulled me off that woman I would have jerked a knot in You were in a fight
SAM: You were in a fight
BUNNY: Daddy calls it an "altercation." How you doing, Sam? You look skinny.
SAM: Same weight I always was.
BUNNY: You look awful good in that uniform, Best part of the job.
SAM: Best part of the job.
BUNNY: Daddy hired a pinhead to take your job. He says so himself. Says "Even my son-in-law was better than this pinhead I got now".
SAM: Bunny, is that stuff I left in the garage still there?
BUNNY: Least he never called me that. With me, it was always "high-strung." "My Bunny might have done something with her life, she wasn't so high-strung." Or "tightly wound," that was another one. You seeing anyone?
SAM: No. You?
BUNNY: Yeah. Sort of. Daddy rounds 'em up. You aren't talking about money, their beady little eyes go dead.
SAM: You didn'tuhmyou didn't have one of your fires, did you? The stuff I left in the garagesome of it was my father's
BUNNY: You watch the draft this year? 'Course you didn't, idiot question. They try to make it dramatic, like there's some big surprise who picks who in the first round? Only they been working it over with their experts and their computers for months. Doctor's reports, highlight reels, coaches' evaluations, psychological profileshell, I wouldn't be surprised if they collected stool samples on these boys, have 'em analyzed. All this stuff to pick a football player for your squad. Compared to that, what you know about the person you get married to don't amount to diddly, does it?
SAM: Suppose not.
BUNNY: You kind of bought yourself a pig in a poke, didn't you, Sam? All that time we were first seeing each other you didn't know I was tightly wound
SAM: It wasn't just you, Bunny.
BUNNY: No, it wasn't, was it? You didn't exactly throw yourself into it heart and soul, did you? She looks at him for an uncomfortably long moment
BUNNY: Your shit's still in the garage if that's what you came for. Sam nods, stands. Bunny is in tears
BUNNY: 350 pounds.
SAM: This boy from West Side, plays tackle both ways. Bench-presses 350 pounds. You imagine having that much weight on top of you? Pushing down? Be hard to breathe. Hard to swallow.
BUNNY: This boy from West Side, plays tackle both ways. Bench-presses 350 pounds. You imagine having that much weight on top of you? Pushing down? Be hard to breathe. Hard to swallow.
SAM: I think they have another fella there to keep it off your chest. A spotter.
BUNNY: "I only got my little girl now," he says, "she's my lifeline." Then he tells me I can't be in the box anymore if I can't control myself. Sonofabitch don't even watch the damn game, just sits there drinking with his bidness friends, look up at the TV now and then. I do better to sit in the cheap seats with some real football people.
SAM: ( Edging out ) You look good, Bunny. It's nice to see you.
BUNNY: ( Smiles ) Thanks. I like it when you say that, EXT. STREET CIUDAD LEON Enrique looks nervously over his shoulder before stepping into a funky apartment building. We TILT up to the second floor balcony, where a LITTLE BOY is watching the street
ENRIQUE: Todos estamos? [Everybody here?] Anselma reaches up from the floor to take his hand
ANSELMA: Van a disparar a nosotros? [Are they going to shoot at us?]
ENRIQUE: Nadie nos veran. Seramos invisibles. Nobody's going to see us. We'll be INT. GARAGE KINCAID HOUSE DAY A mess. We start on a campaign poster with Sam's face on it and the legend"ONE GOOD DEEDS DESERVES ANOTHERVOTE SAM DEEDS FOR COUNTY SHERIFF". We PAN to see Sam, who has been digging through piles of old junk, set down the box he was looking for
CLOSER: Sam pulls out an old holster, a sheaf of real estate and insurance forms, a couple of old paperback Zane Grey westerns. He pulls out a cracked leather pouch, turns it overletters fall out. He examines an envelopeno stamp or postmark pulls a letter out, reads
SAM: "Dearest Buddy" He puts the letter down for a moment, thinks. He needs to know. He picks the letter up again, reads.
CAROLYN: Hey, it's the General.
DEL: Colonel. Is uhmis Otis in?
CAROLYN: Come on in
DEL: If it's too late
CAROLYN: Come on in. Del enters the house as if walking into an AMBUSH
CAROLYN: Otis sittin' up with some people at the club. I don't think he'll be CU DEL Uncomfortable, sitting at the edge of an easy chair. He looks at a mounted magazine photo of Otis smiling as he pours hot sauce on a rack of ribs
CU DEL: Uncomfortable, sitting at the edge of an easy chair. He looks at a mounted magazine photo of Otis smiling as he pours hot sauce on a rack of ribs
CAROLYN: His hot sauce recipe won a contest last year. They sellin' it far away as San Antonio. He got a lot of talent, your father. Del squirm a bit at the word "father"
DEL: You've been in this house for a while?
CAROLYN: I been here with him eight years now. He built it when he was with I never met her.
DEL: I never met her.
CAROLYN: There was a bunch of 'em You never met. Me neither. Del looks around the living room
CAROLYN: Let me show you around
CU DEL: He looks at something below
DEL, CAROLYN: Carolyn stands behind, watching Del's face as he looks at the stuff
DEL: Where'd he get all this?
CAROLYN: Your mother got a brotherAlphonse
DEL: Uncle Al
CAROLYN: Otis stood on good terms with the man. Whenever you do something makes the news, he sends it on. When they made you General, Otis just about drove away all our customers going on about it.
DEL: I'm a colonel.
CAROLYN: Yeah, I knowMan made me memorize the whole damn Army chain of command before he'd marry me. So this is a big deal, commander and all?
DEL: It's a small post and they're phasing it out in two years, but I moved up in rank andwell, a command is a Otis went on like you were that guy who won the Gulf War. Colin whatsit.
CAROLYN: Otis went on like you were that guy who won the Gulf War. Colin whatsit.
DEL: My mother said he never asked about
CAROLYN: He never asked her. It's a bit too much for Del
DEL: Listen, I uhtell him I came by. We HOLD on Carolyn as he hurries out. She salutes
CAROLYN: Catch you later, Colonel.
ENRIQUE: Que Paso? [What happened?]
NESTOR: Anselma cayo en las rocas. Creo que la pierna ha sido root[Anselma felt on the rocks. I think her leg's Two men struggle forward supporting Anselma, trying to hold her leg out straight in front of her. She is in a lot of No podemos alcanzar el camion llevando a ella. Hay lugar para esconderla? [We can't reach the truck if we're carrying her. Is there somewhere to hide her?] Enrique thinks, trying not to panic, as the others come up around him
NESTOR: No podemos alcanzar el camion llevando a ella. Hay lugar para esconderla? [We can't reach the truck if we're carrying her. Is there somewhere to hide her?] Enrique thinks, trying not to panic, as the others come up around him
ENRIQUE: Conozco solamente una persona con casa[I only know one person with a Esta lejos? [Is it far?]
ANSELMA: ( In pain ) Esta lejos? [Is it far?]
MERCEDES: ( Standing ) Quien es? [Who is it?]
ENRIQUE: Soy yo, Enrique! No tiene miedo [It's me, Enrique. Don't be afraid] Enrique steps out into the light. His pants are wet and he's What are you doing out there? Are you crazy?
MERCEDES: What are you doing out there? Are you crazy?
ENRIQUE: Hay pasado un accidente muy grave [There's been a bad accident]
MERCEDES: In English, Enrique. We're in the United States
ENRIQUE: I have some friends who have had a You have somebody else out there?
MERCEDES: You have somebody else out there?
ENRIQUE: We was by the river? And I hear my friend callin' for help, and I look and she has falling in the water
MERCEDES: Don't tell me lies, Enrique. Que We was crossin' the river Nestor appears in the light now, supporting Anselma, who hops awkwardly to move forward
ENRIQUE: We was crossin' the river Nestor appears in the light now, supporting Anselma, who hops awkwardly to move forward
MERCEDES: Enrique! Quienes son estos? How could you bring them here?
ENRIQUE: They need help. Jaime, Anselma esta es mi jefa
NESTOR: I'll call the Border Patrol, they'll get her to the hospital.
MERCEDES: I'll call the Border Patrol, they'll get her to the hospital.
ENRIQUE: No! No puede hacer esto[You can't do that]
MERCEDES: You think you're doing these people a favor? What are they going to do? Either they get on welfare or they become criminals
ENRIQUE: No es la verdad[That isn't true]
NESTOR: Con permiso, Senora, la muchacha tiene mucho dolor[Please, Senora, the girl is in a lot of pain] Mercedes grudgingly indicates the lounge chair
MERCEDES: Sientase. [Sit.]
NESTOR: Es muy amable. [You're very kind.] He and Enrique help Anselma into the chair. The Girl looks up at Mercedes, frightened
ANSELMA: Ayudanos, Senora, por favor no podemos regresar[Help us, Senora, please. We can't go back] Mercedes looks at ANSELMA disapprovingly. The girl can't be more than 14
MERCEDES: This girl is a friend of yours?
ENRIQUE: Es mi novia. [She's my girlfriend.]
MERCEDES: I thought you were married!
ENRIQUE: I am marry to the cousin of a friend but only to be able to live here. This is the mother of my child
MERCEDES: This girl has a child?
ENRIQUE: We have a daughter.
MERCEDES: ( Scornful ) EXT. HOUSE NIGHT Sam stands at the front door of a house on the lake, banging on the door
SAM: Hollis? You in there? Hollis?
YOUNG MERCEDES: No puedo ver la orilla! [I can't see the bank!]
YOUNG MERCEDES: Vi a Rosaria arastrado para el corriente[I saw Rosaria taken away by the current]
ELADIO: No te molestas. Tenemos a ella. [Don't worry. We've got her.] He takes her arm, pulls her toward the far shore
ELADIO: Como se llama? [What's your name?]
YOUNG MERCEDES: Mercedes Gonzales Ruiz.
ELADIO: ( Smiles ) Me llama Eladio CruzBienvenido a Tejas. [Welcome to Texas.]
MERCEDES: Rapidamente! Everybody in the world is going to see!
ENRIQUE: Donde vamos? [Where are we going?]
MERCEDES: A casa de Porfirio Zayas. He used to be a doctor on the other side. Gunshot wounds, fixing babiesif you can pay he can handle it.
ENRIQUE: Senora, anything it costs, I can Don't worry about it. He owes me some favors. Enrique turns to ANSELMA still frightened in the rear of the station wagon
MERCEDES: Don't worry about it. He owes me some favors. Enrique turns to ANSELMA still frightened in the rear of the station wagon
ENRIQUE: Seas tranquila, mija. Estamos en las manos de Senora Cruz. [Just relax, honey. We're in the hands of Senora Cruz.] Mercedes starts the car
MERCEDES: In English, Enrique. In English
CARTOON: A tank rolling over barbed wire, cannon and machine gun blasting away
CHET: I finished that. I'm just messing Tanks, huh?
DEL: Tanks, huh?
CHET: You got to be in the Army, you might as well have something slick to drive.
DEL: So you're going into the Army? Chet looks at him, not in a good mood, then goes back to his That's the general plan, isn't it? Del watches for a long moment, thinking
CHET: That's the general plan, isn't it? Del watches for a long moment, thinking
DEL: ( Softly ) That's up to you. Chet looks at his father again. All this is news to him
DEL: The Army isn't for everybody. Chet can't quite believe he is hearing this. Del crosses to the refrigerator
DEL: Not that I don't think you'd be good at it, butyou knowI wouldn't be disappointed if you decided to do something else with your life.
CHET: You wouldn't?
DEL: Chet nods, begins to play again, considering the possibilities. Del is making an effort and he doesn't have much practice
DEL: How's your room shaping up?
CHET: Fine. I'm pretty much moved in.
DEL: An awkward silence
CHET: ( Tentative ) Are we going to ever see your father?
DEL: My father.
CHET: Yeah. He lives here, right?
DEL: He does. Del pulls some food out, watching Chet as he draws
DEL: Maybe we'll clean that thing out back up, have a barbecue next weekend. We could invite him and his wife Chet flips the page of his sketchbook
CHET: Chet flips the page of his sketchbook
CHET: He makes his own sauce.
REVERSE: Sam walks in slowly, crossing the floor to bring us back to the two men
SAM: Hey, Sam.
HOLLIS: Hey, Sam.
SAM: Open late.
OTIS: I'm not open. We were just talking.
SAM: Hollis probably told you we found Charley Wade.
OTIS: Yeah. How about that? People start digging holes in this county, there's no telling what'll come up. He sits a few stools away from Hollis
SAM: You two saw it, didn't you? You two saw it when Buddy killed him. Hollis and 0tis look at each other
SAM: Imonna find out one way or the other.
HOLLIS: Your father had the finest sense of justice of any man I ever met
SAM: Yeah, and my mother was a saint. For fifteen years the whole damn town knew he had another woman on the side. Stole ten thousand dollars to set her up in business. But hell, what's that? You got a problem? Buddy'll fix it. Facing some time in jail? Buddy'll knock half of it off if you do what he says, when he says. You got some business that's not exactly legal? Talk to Buddy
HOLLIS: Buddy Deeds
SAM: Buddy Deeds was a murderer. He looks at the two older men for a long moment
SAM: That night in the cafehe didn't stay long after you left, did he, Hollis? Maybe he decided he'd gone too far with Wade, maybe he figured he better not wait for the Sheriff to get behind him. So he stepped out to see if he could catch upand you were here at the club that night, weren't you, O? Otis sighs, begins to speak softly
OTIS: I was here.
CU OTIS: He turns to look toward the door as he reminisces, and we PAN away with his gaze
CU OTIS: MUSIC CONTINUES. Young Otis doesn't see at first, engaged in dealing the cards. Finally, he senses the presence, looks up
MEN, TABLE: MUSIC CONTINUES. We shoot past Wade's body as the other men step away from the table, grab their hats, and hurry out the side door. Young Otis is left sitting at the table. Wade starts walking toward him
YOUNG HOLLIS: MUSIC CONTINUES. Watching squeamishly as Wade goes to work on young Otis, the overhead light swinging wildly
CLOSER: MUSIC CONTINUES. Wade puts his gun next to Young Otis's ear, cursing at him. Young Otis gets to his feet, goes behind the bar
CLOSER: Wade puts his gun next to Young Otis's ear, cursing at him. Young Otis gets to his feet, goes behind the bar
BAR COUNTER: MUSIC CONTINUES. Young Otis slaps an envelope full of cash onto the counter
WADE: MUSIC CONTINUES. He waves his pistol, indicating something behind Otis
CIGAR BOX: MUSIC CONTINUES. Lying open, an old pistol inside of it. Young Otis reaches
WADE: MUSIC CONTINUES. Wade levels his gun at Young Otis's back, then turns to wink at Hollis like he did before he shot Eladio
WADE'S HAND: MUSIC CONTINUES. Finger closing around the trigger of the
HOLLIS: MUSIC CONTINUES. Mouth open in horror
WADE: MUSIC CONTINUES. Eyes burning as he aims
BUDDY: MUSIC CONTINUES. Stepping in the door, seeing, CALLS OUT
YOUNG OTIS: MUSIC CONTINUES. Turning to see Buddy
WADE: BLAM! THWAP! A bullet plows through his neck, knocking him back against the bar. MUSIC CONTINUES. His gun falls from his hand
YOUNG OTIS: Horrified, splattered with the Sheriff's blood. MUSIC
CONTINUES: BAR COUNTER MUSIC CONTINUES. Twenty-dollar bills have spilled out of the envelope and are soaking up blood
BAR COUNTER: MUSIC CONTINUES. Twenty-dollar bills have spilled out of the envelope and are soaking up blood
CU BUDDY: Calm and hard-eyed. MUSIC CONTINUES. As he steps forward, we see his pistol is still in its holster. He reaches out and takes the .45 from Young Hollis's shaking hand, looks him in the eye till Hollis looks back, then looks toward Young Otis We PAN with his gaze to a CLOSE-UP of Otis, back in the PRESENT. The MUSIC FADES
OTIS: Sheriff Charley had some real big friends in politics then, and if the truth come out it wasn't going to go easy on Hollis. I don't know why I trusted Buddy with itdon't know why he trusted me. The first time I ever talked with him was right there, and then with a dead white man leakin' blood on the floor between us. He could charm the scales off a rattler, Buddy This isn't what Sam was expecting. Hollis watches his face
WIDER: This isn't what Sam was expecting. Hollis watches his face
HOLLIS: The three of us cleaned up and took him to the post and put him under. Can't say I was much help.
SAM: And the ten thousand?
HOLLIS: Widow's benefits. He figured it would make the disappearance look better, and that Mexican gal was just scrapin' by after Charley killed her man. They didn't get hooked up till late
OTIS: Time went on, people liked the story that we told better than anything the truth might have been. Sam swivels around on his seat to took at the spot where Charley fell. He has a lot of information to deal with
HOLLIS: What's the call, Sam? Sam rolls it over in his mind before answering
SAM: Don't think the Rangers are likely to find out any more than they already have.
HOLLIS: Word gets out who that body was, people are gonna think Buddy done Sam gets up
SAM: Buddy's a goddamn legend. He can handle it. He heads for the door
SAM: 'Night, fellas. Hollis and Otis watch him go
CLOSER: Pilar gets out, kisses Sam, sits by him on the hood
PILAR: When's the picture start? Sam looks at her for a moment
SAM: You gonna tell your mother we been seeing each other?
PILAR: She'll figure it out sooner or later. I don't have to ask permission anymore, if that's what you mean.
SAM: You have any idea when your father died? Eladio?
PILAR: ( Shrugs ) Couple months before I was born
SAM: Try a year and a half. He bands her an old snapshot. PILAR looks at it
CU PHOTO: Buddy and Young Mercedes on the lake. Buddy with his shirt off on one end of a sailboat, Mercedes in a bathing suit, both smiling for the camera
PILAR: I've never seen my mother in a bathing suit before. Didn't know she owned one.
SAM: Buddy bought the cafe for her with money he took from the county. Pilar looks away, struggling not to They can't pull this on me. It isn't fairI don't believe this
PILAR: They can't pull this on me. It isn't fairI don't believe this
SAM: He paid the hospital bill when you were born. Your mom always calls you "our beautiful daughter" in the letters she wrote to him.
PILAR: From the first time I saw you at schoolall those years we were married to other people I always felt like we were connected.
SAM: I remember thinking you were the one part of my life Buddy didn't have a piece of A silence, both of them wondering what the next move should So that's it? You're not going to want to be with me anymore? Sam knows what he feels but doesn't have the words
PILAR: So that's it? You're not going to want to be with me anymore? Sam knows what he feels but doesn't have the words
PILAR: I'm not having any more children. After Amado, I had some complications I can't get pregnant again, if that's what the rule is about
SAM: If I met you for the first time today, I'd still want to be with you. It is what Pilar needed to hear
PILAR: We start from scratch
SAM: Everything that went before, all that stuff, that historythe hell with it, right? PILAR takes Sam's hand, kisses him
PILAR: Everything that went before, all that stuff, that historythe hell with it, right? PILAR takes Sam's hand, kisses him
PILAR: Forget the Alamo.
THE END: Writers : John Sayles
