FADE UP: CLOSE UP on the face of YURI ORLOV. Late-thirties, maybe the wrong side of forty, cigarette dangling from his fingers, wearing a conservative suit and tie. Black smoke wafts in front of his face. He speaks matter-of-factly, directly into camera.
YURI: There are over 550 million firearms in worldwide circulation. That's one firearm for every twelve people on the planet. The only question is. .how do we arm the other eleven?
UKRAINIAN OFFICER: ( to his SUBORDINATE carrying a Call it "agricultural machinery".
YURI: ( in subtitled Ukrainian, looking over All property is theft.
YURI: ( in subtitled Ukrainian ) Shortages? What shortages?
RADIO ANNOUNCER: ( impossibly upper-crust British Finally, in response to human rights protests and in an effort to encourage the United States to sell grain to the Soviet Union after two successive crop failures, it is reported that the politburo has consented to permit a limited number of Jews to emigrate from the Soviet Union to Israel. ( beat ) And that concludes this edition of news from the BBC World Service.
ANATOLY: ( incredulous ) Trading Jews for grain.
VITALY: ( reaching for a banana ) It's good P.R. - for the Moscow Olympics.
IRINA: ( shrugs ) Good for the Jews.
YURI: And us. We're Jewish.
VITALY: ( scoffing ) We're not Jewish.
YURI: ( shrug ) We're Jewish if we say we're Jewish.
ANATOLY: Yuri and the family drink to their new identity.
ANATOLY: ( glaring at the plate, How many timesI can't eat shellfish. It's You're not Jewish.
IRINA: You're not Jewish.
ANATOLY: I like it. I like the hat - to remind us there's something above us. I like that. I'm going to temple.
IRINA: You're not going to temple. You go to temple more than the rabbi!
U.N. ENVOY: ( referring to the meager pile With all due respect, Mr. Baptiste, you don't seriously expect us to believe that this represents your entire arsenal. This is making a nonsense of the embargo ratified by all five permanent members of the Security Council. The escalation in the build up of arms jeopardizes not only order in the region but ultimately world order.
BAPTISTE: ( playing to the gallery ) World order? You say we jeopardize world Your idea of world order is when you're giving the orders to the world. Excuse me.
BAPTISTE: ( irritated by Yuri's presence ) I am only going to the restroom.
YURI: ( shrug )
BAPTISTE: ( aside to his bodyguards as he enters ) This is what they mean by U.N. Observer?
BAPTISTE: ( taunting Yuri ) Aren't you going to help me hold my cock?
YURI: ( glancing towards the urinal ) Doesn't look like a job for two men.
BAPTISTE: You know you are fighting a losing battle, my young friend. War is nature. If you take away the guns, we will kill each other with knives. Take away the knives, we will kill each other with sticks. Take away the sticks, we will kill each other with your peace treaties. You cannot stop this bath of blood.
YURI: It's not "bath of blood". It's, "blood Thank you. But I like it my way.
BAPTISTE: Thank you. But I like it my way.
U.N. PEACEKEEPERS: ( chanting to Ava ) Take it off, baby! Take it off!
AVA: ( referring to the sea of U.N. Baby blue. My favorite color! I suppose I could give you the speech about "my hope for world peace" but I have a feeling you don't want to hear that today.
U.N. PEACEKEEPER: ( calling out ) My hope is for a piece of your ass!
AVA: ( laughing it off ) I don't know if you'll be taking me to bed tonight, darling, but you can take her. You're all doing a great job - keep it up. Enjoy the
LATER: BACKSTAGE, YURI and other Peacekeepers observe AVA escorted towards a huge, American car. An inebriated U.N. PEACEKEEPER tries to get her attention.
U.N. PEACEKEEPER: Ava! Ava!
MANAGER: Don't touch what you can't afford.
U.N. PEACEKEEPER: ( regretting indulging the fantasy ) Let's get drunk.
MONROVIAN GIRL: ( referring to the money ) What's this?
YURI: ( explaining the tip ) For the smile.
YURI: ( mixing English and French ) Fuck, no, no, no, nofuck, no. Money? You want money? ( going through his pockets, Fuck, no. Don't shoot. Don't shoot me. Fuck. U.S. dollars. ( referring to the face on a five President Lincoln.
LIBERIAN MAN: ( in flawless English ) Glock .45. ( referring to the face on a twenty
YURI: Yuri stares at the money, bewildered.
LIBERIAN MAN: President Jackson.
YURI: LIBERIAN MAN ( misinterpreting him )
LIBERIAN MAN: ( misinterpreting him ) You are driving a hard bargain.
YURI: ( flabbergasted ) No, keep it. Keep the money. Keep the gun.
LIBERIAN MAN: ( offended ) What do you take me for - a thief? Demand and supply. ( referring to the gun ) There is more I am thinking where this comes ( incredulous ) You want more Glocks?
LIBERIAN MAN: Demand and supply. There is more I am thinking where this comes You want more Glocks?
YURI: ( incredulous ) You want more Glocks?
LIBERIAN MAN: And the Heckler
YURI: What makes you think I'll do that?
LIBERIAN MAN: ( quizzical ) I will come back and shoot you with the ( checking the magazine, referring By the way, do you have the hollow point
YURI: ( facetious, nodding to the gun ) You got any color preference for that?
LIBERIAN MAN: ( missing the sarcasm, regarding the gun ) Kelly green. ( meeting Yuri's eye ) I will find you.
VIVIAN: ( between heavy breaths ) What are we doing here, Yuri?
YURI: ( kissing her nipple ) Whatever you want.
VIVIAN: You know what I mean. Here, in this country. Are we doing any good?
YURI: ( finally telling her what she Would nothing be better?
LATER: VIVIAN, satiated, dozes amongst the rumpled sheets, backside YURI uses the opportunity to take an impression of the key attached to her belt.
IRINA: ( calling after him ) Who are you? You're not my son. My son doesn't own such a suit.
YURI: You know who's going to inherit the earth? Arms dealers - because everybody else is too busy killing each other.
VITALY: ( regarding his brother ) It's a hell of a fucking career move.
YURI: That's the point. I've seen how the world's coming apart.
VITALY: And you want to help with that?
YURI: You can't stop it. It's a basic human need - we eat, sleep, sleep with each other and what else? Fight. The oldest human skeletons have spearheads in their rib cages.
VITALY: What do you know about guns?
YURI: ( joking darkly ) I know which end I'd rather be on. ( adopting a serious tone ) Every day there are people shooting at each other. I think to myself, what guns are they using? Why not mine?
VITALY: ( hesitant ) I don't know.
YURI: ( pressing his argument ) Vitaly, I've tasted your borscht, you're no fucking chef. I can eat here for free and I still don't eat here. You're doing nothing with your life.
VITALY: Maybe doing nothing's better than doing Yuri, I've actually fired one of these
YURI: That's why I need you. Brothers in arms.
ANATOLY: ( pleasantly surprised ) Finally getting in touch with what's important, my Son?
YURI: ( simply )
ASIAN BUSINESSMAN: ( brochure in hand ) I can get you the shoulder-fired SA-7 surface-to-air missiles. The older Chinese model. Not so effective against modern military aircraft but deadly if used against a commercial airliner. I'm giving them away at eight-fifty.
YURI: That's him. The guy Eli told me about. Simeon Zaharoff. Brokered deals in the Iran/Iraq war - both sides, sold missiles to Argentina in the Falklands. Hets a fucking legend. I've got to talk to him.
YURI: Simeon! Simeon!
VITALY: ( stepping between the bodyguard They're talking.
SIMEON: May I help you?
YURI: A mutual friend, Eli Kurtzman from Brighton Beach Import-Export said to contact you. I have a business proposal. Perhaps we can discuss it - over a drink.
SIMEON: You're in the wrong place my young friend. This is no place for amateurs. Yob tvayu mat. ( Subtitled - Motherfucker. )
YURI: ( under his breath in Ukrainian ) Yob tvayu mat. ( Subtitled - Motherfucker. )
YURI: I sell by the kilo. They're second-hand weapons but they're still okay.
YURI: ( irritated by the meager amount ) This is bullshit money, Vit - small fucking What do we do, go more legitimate?
VITALY: What do we do, go more legitimate?
YURI: No. More illegal.
VITALY: What I'd give right now for a plate of red cabbage and potatoes.
YURI: ( whisper, motioning for them It's not our fight.
YURI: How's it going?
INDIAN COMMANDER: ( admiring a new gun ) We're making terrific progress - most casualties from avalanches and frostbite.
YURI: ( uncertain smile ) Make sure you thaw out the guns before you fight.
YURI: ( from the boat ) Cannibal, what's going on?
CANNIBAL: Cease fire, man. Cease fire. It's over.
YURI: What?! What do you mean it's over?
CANNIBAL: Truce. We're friends, man.
YURI: ( looking to his unopened crates, Friends?! You can't be fucking friends. Last week I spoke to you on the phone. You said you would not rest until every last rebel was dead. You called them vermin. You said would piss in their mouths, you said you would exterminate them like cockroaches. Just last week, you said this!
CANNIBAL: ( shrug ) That was last week, man.
YURI: Cannibal, don't you fucking walk away from
CANNIBAL: Peace, man!
YURI: Fuck you, Cannibal!!
VITALY: ( referring to the truck ) Maybe we can offload it - the Balkans.
YURI: ( nodding in agreement ) At least when they say they're going to have a war, they keep their word.
AFGHANI OFFICIAL: I hope you're not thinking of selling these, Mr. Orlov.
YURI: ( shakes his head ) Personal use.
AFGHANI OFFICIAL: There's a hundred thousand bullets here.
YURI: I'm kind of trigger happy.
YURI: ( into phone ) The Angel King will arrive tomorrow.Hallelujah to you too. ( into phone ) Yes?.Slow the fuck downwhat do you mean, tipped off? They know where we are?! Where are they?! ( hanging up ) Forget it.
CAPTAIN: Do we run?
VITALY: We have to get out of here.
YURI: No, no-one's going anywhere. Slowdead slow. Buy me time. Get that fucking rag down! It's Yuri. I need another handle for this tub.something in our weight class. You, over the side! Yes, it's got to check out.you got a shorter name!.what?Kono? How do you spell that?.K-O-N-O. That's good! Kono! K-O-N-O. What are we flying?.Dutch? Later. Vit, get me a Dutch flag! Damn, they're hauling! Faster! Or I send you in! Faster.and better!
YURI: I've got Belgium.
VITALY: I've got Belgium.
YURI: What the fuck use is that?! He's painting a name registered in the fucking Netherlands! You got France?!
VITALY: ( confused, finding the tricolor ) Yes, why?
YURI: Turn it on its side. That's it! Everybody look innocentnow!
VALENTINE: Not exactly "The Love Boat". It's clean?.It doesn't look clean. I'm
YURI: ( anxious whisper into phone ) It's Yuri. Phone in a sighting of the Kristol south of Aruba.
AGENT: ( referring to the phone ) Sir, sighting of the Kristol due north.
YURI: Nice job.
YURI: ( in Spanish ) Hey, pay before you play.
NARC LEADER: ( in Spanish ) You're late. Hey, fuck you!
VITALY: Hey, fuck you!
NARC LEADER: ( jamming his handgun in Vitaly's Fuck you!
YURI: ( reasoning with the Narc Leader ) No, you don't fuck him No, Vit. No. ( to the Leader, referring to the Help yourselves. Free sample. The first and most important rule of gunrunning is never get shot with your own
NARC LEADER: ( referring to Yuri's wound ) I apologize for earlier.
YURI: ( slight wince ) I understand.
NARC LEADER: It's all there.
YURI: What is this?
NARC LEADER: Six keys of pure.
YURI: ( incredulous ) I can't hand this to my fucking bank teller at Chase Manhattan.
NARC LEADER: ( hair-trigger temper flaring You should be thanking me. ( waving his cell phone ) Have you checked the street price today? With the seizures at the border last week, it's jumped thirty percent.
YURI: I sell guns. I don't sell drugs.
NARC LEADER: ( shrug )
YURI: ( calling after him ) I've got standards.
VITALY: ( staring at their "remuneration" ) Now what?
YURI: ( sighs, exasperated )
VITALY: ( happy - way too happy ) ( to the comatose prostitutes ) It's my brother, Yuri. He's my big brother.
YURI: What the fuck is that?
VITALY: ( indicating the direction he is I start in Odessa, work my way to the ( staring at the map, appalled ) You'll be fucking dead before you reach
YURI: ( staring at the map, appalled ) You'll be fucking dead before you reach
VITALY: You fuck! You fucking fuck!
YURI: Get out of the car. I promised our parents.
VITALY: ( desperate eyes ) Vitaly, you're going to have a good time. This is a top place. Two Ford models checked in last week and that cute weather girl's been here since July.
YURI: Vitaly, you're going to have a good time. This is a top place. Two Ford models checked in last week and that cute weather girl's been here since July.
VITALY: Yuri relents, pours a gram onto the dashboard. Vitaly snorts it off the dash.
VITALY: ( as he wipes his nose ) You're a good brother. I never understood what separated the recreational drug user from the habitual, the functional addict from the dysfunctional. But for the grace of God, it could have been me snorting lines as long as the Belt Parkway.
AGENT: ( into phone ) There's really no one else you'd consider? Christie and Brooke are both available.not the right look? It's just that Ava doesn't generally do print. However, since you are willing to double her rate and pay cash in advance. She loves working with Herb and you say the campaign will only be seen in Asia? ( examining a first class plane ticket I certainly can't see her objecting to the ( inspecting an itinerary ) What is the product again.?
YURI: ( into phone ) The product? Er,.Colt .45. ( a beat ) The beer.
LATER: Towelling off on a sunbed of her own, Ava glances over to Yuri. It seems crazy not to speak to each other. Ava breaks the ice.
AVA: ( calling to Yuri ) Popular hotel, huh? Ava Cordova.
YURI: Yuri Orlov. What brings you to St. Barts?
AVA: A photo shoot. At least, that was the plan. But the photographer's plane got stuck in Miami. Hurricane - though there was nothing in the news.
YURI: ( gazing out at the ocean ) Those things can come out of nowhere.
AVA: The job's cancelled and there's no flight back to New York 'til Tuesday.
YURI: You can hitch a ride with me if you like. In the meantime, why don't I take your
AVA: ( holding her skirt in the wind to This is your plane?
YURI: ( shrug ) That is my name.
YURI: ( pretending to be impressed with I had no idea. I'm sorry I didn't recognize you. You must think me very rude.
AVA: Don't apologize. I put on clothes for a At least you aren't taking them off.
YURI: ( wry grin ) At least you aren't taking them off.
AVA: ( smiling at his irreverence ) I would be if half the photographers had their way. ( shrug ) But I can't complain. I'm paid to say, ( meeting his gaze ) What about you?
YURI: Nothing so glamorous. I'm in transport - international air freight mostly.
AVA: What, like UPS or something?
YURI: Something like that.
AVA: ( glance to her champagne flute ) Business is good.
YURI: Like you, I can't complain.
AVA: But if you did?
YURI: Well.I don't know. It's just that I travel all around the world but I can't help feeling sometimes that I'm going nowhere. Here's to. .a hurricane. Without it, I'd never have met you.
AVA: This is no accident, is it, Yuri? It feels like fate.
YURI: ( never averting his eyes ) I don't believe in fate.
AVA: What do you believe in?
YURI: ( explaining to the guests ) It's traditional.
VITALY: ( meekly echoing the remark -joke One more time, Vitaly. ( reassuring word as he whisks Ava I'm sorry. I should have said something.
ANATOLY: ( touching his yarmulke ) Always remember, son, there's something above you.
YURI: ( looking up, gently joking ) Sure, Dad. A forty-thousand dollar crystal Mom, we don't need anything.
IRINA: You need this.
ANATOLY: ( to Irina, regarding a nativity Jesus was Jewish. You're worshipping a Jew. Ava, this is too much.
IRINA: Ava, this is too much.
AVA: Yuri likes to spoil you.
AVA: Nicki! You did it. Good boy!
ANATOLY: That's my grandson.
AVA: ( calling out ) Yuri. Don't you want to see what your son is doing?
ANATOLY: What the hell's the matter?
YURI: It's over! It's over!
AVA: What's over?
YURI: The Cold War, the Soviet Union, the Evil Empire. Mikhail's saying "no mas". He's throwing in the towel. It's over.
AVA: That's nice. Your son is crawling.
LATER: In the living room, AVA and IRINA play with NICOLAI. YURI and ANATOLY drink Johnnie Walker Black label.
ANATOLY: ( contemplating the day's events ) At least there'll be religious freedom.
YURI: I think I'll go back for a visit. Do you stay in touch with Uncle Dmitri?
ANATOLY: ( face lighting up ) Dmitri Volkoff? Now and then.
YURI: How is he?
ANATOLY: The luckiest man alive. You know he was one of the first men at Chernobyl. Off-duty, at his daughter's wedding, he was roaring drunk. He was the only one who survived. Later they found that alcohol in your blood resists radiation.
YURI: He's still a General in the army?
ANATOLY: Major General. He got promoted. Two of his rivals were also there that day. I told you - he's the luckiest man alive.
YURI: He may be luckier than you think.
ANATOLY: ( lowering his voice ) We're not fools, Yuri. What's between you and your wife is your own business but I don't think you're going to Odessa to open a ( meeting his son's eye ) Is this how you want to be remembered?
YURI: ( shrug ) You're only remembered when you're dead. I'll bring you back some caviar.
ANATOLY: It's not kosher. Merry fucking Christmas!
VITALY: Merry fucking Christmas!
ANATOLY: ( paternal ) Vitaly, who is this?
ANGEL: Her name really is Angel. She's a fairy. Let's stick her on top of the Christmas I love you all.
VITALY: Her name really is Angel. She's a fairy. Let's stick her on top of the Christmas I love you all.
YURI: I'm going back to Ukraine.
VITALY: ( maudlin ) I miss Odessa. I miss you.
YURI: I miss you too. Be careful, Yuri. Those things you sell,
BORDER GUARD: ( in English, checking Yuri's Cash or check only.
YURI: It's good to be home.
DMITRI: Nephew, come here and hug the luckiest man What? Did you think I'd be glowing? Don't worry. You can't catch it.
DMITRI: ( referring to the car ) This is the SLK?
YURI: 0 - 60 in 4.8.
DMITRI: I can't just sell you government property, Yuri. I have to report
YURI: Report to who? Moscow? As of last week Moscow is in a foreign country.
DMITRI: ( shrug ) New flag, new boss.
YURI: There is no new boss yet. They're too busy squabbling over who gets the presidential holiday home at the Black Sea. It's beautiful. The ones who know don't care any more. The ones who care don't Show me your inventory.
YURI: How many Kalashnikovs do you have?
DMITRI: ( referring to the inventory in
YURI: ( looking over Dmitri's shoulder ) Is that a "4"? It doesn't look like a "4" to me. It looks more like a "1".
DMITRI: ( missing the point ) No, it's a "4".
YURI: It's whatever we say it is because no one else knows the difference. 10,000 Kalashnikovs for a battalion. Your stocks are dangerously depleted, Dmitri. You should order more from the factory.
DMITRI: Someone will work this out, Yuri. What happens then?
YURI: ( shrug ) We'll cut them in. Anyway, what could happen - you're the luckiest man alive.
YURI: He's a friend of mine.
SIMEON: Do you know who the fuck I am?
OFFICER: ( thick Ukrainian accent ) Who the fuck cares who the fuck you are?
SIMEON: I demand to see your commanding officer.
OFFICER: You don't demand shit.
SIMEON: Just give me back my papers.
OFFICER: ( papers clearly visible in his What papers?
BARMAID: ( to Yuri, impressed ) You sell guns?
YURI: Maybe you'd like to come to my room and see my bazooka.
YURI: You look a little lost, Simeon. Is the world changing too fast?
SIMEON: I am here, aren't I?
YURI: Not all of you, I think. You've gotten so rich selling for the CIA, you can't get that ideology completely out of your head. The empire was evil for too
SIMEON: I can't deny, it takes some getting used to. Last week we were trying to beat their brains in and now we're going into business There's no place in gunrunning for politics anymore, Simeon. I sell to leftists, rightists. I'd sell to pacifists but they're not the most regular of customers. Of course, you're not a true internationalist until you've supplied weapons to kill your own
YURI: There's no place in gunrunning for politics anymore, Simeon. I sell to leftists, rightists. I'd sell to pacifists but they're not the most regular of customers. Of course, you're not a true internationalist until you've supplied weapons to kill your own
SIMEON: I understand you have Ukraine in your pocket but there are the other satellite states. Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Belarus. Instead of cutting each other's throats, it may be more profitable to work together. What do you think?
YURI: I think you are the amateur now. I think you suffer from a philosophical disadvantage - you have a philosophy. I think you should go with your instincts - your first I am the same man who was not good enough for you before. I am not good enough for you now.
SIMEON: The problem with gunrunners going to war is there's no shortage of ammunition.
UKRAINE MAJOR: ( haggling over the gunships ) I'll tell you what I'll do. Buy six, you get one free.
YURI: What about tech support?
UKRAINE MAJOR: No problem.
YURI: Son, get off there before you get hurt.
UKRAINE MAJOR: ( sheepish ) He's the tech support.
YURI: ( incredulous ) He's twelve.
UKRAINE MAJOR: Thirteen. Almost fourteen.
DMITRI: ( shrug ) Kids grow up fast around here.
UKRAINE MAJOR: ( nodding to the gunship ) He can take it apart in his sleep.
DMITRI: How can I? You keep selling my helicopters. You're too greedy, Yuri.
YURI: ( anxious ) We have to go back.
DMITRI: We'll be going in reverse. We can't turn around for a mile.
YOUNG SOLDIER: They're coming.
DMITRI: We shoot it out?
YURI: ( shaking his head ) And start an international fucking incident - no, no, no.
DMITRI: So we run.
YURI: No. I've got paperwork.
DMITRI: ( protesting ) Not for the gunship. Yuri, you know the penalty for sanction-busting - selling a military helicopter? It's not a military helicopter. It's a rescue helicopter. Get to work, Son.
YURI: It's not a military helicopter. It's a rescue helicopter. Get to work, Son.
YURI: Yuri Orlov.
VALENTINE: ( flashing ID ) ( regarding the photo closely ) Mr. Orlov, always in the wrong place at the right time. We've met before. Off the coast of Colombia. ( feigning memory loss ) What was the name of that freighter - I can't remember. Was it the Kono or the ( hesitates, he's actually forgotten ) The crew called that vessel a lot of names - none of them repeatable in polite company. ( noting to the gun in his ribs ) The new MP-5. Do you need a silencer for
YURI: ( hesitates, he's actually forgotten ) The crew called that vessel a lot of names - none of them repeatable in polite company. ( noting to the gun in his ribs ) The new MP-5. Do you need a silencer for
VALENTINE: The end-user certificate for this aircraft states Burkina Faso. Nice. Did you type it It's for humanitarian missions.
YURI: It's for humanitarian missions.
VALENTINE: You're a humanitarian? This is a killing machine.
YURI: Not any more.
DMITRI: ( in broken English ) Listen to the nephew.
YURI: Didn't you get the memo? The war's over. What can they do with military hardware but convert to civilian use?
DMITRI: What, yes?
YURI: ( trying to lighten the mood ) The only way you could die from this baby is if a food drop hits you.
VALENTINE: ( referring to the missiles ) Also going to Burkina Faso?
YURI: ( pointing to the document ) But to a different client at a different
VALENTINE: What do you take me for? A complete fucking Not complete, Sir. And while I hesitate to tell you your job, I must point out that when shipped separately the weapons and the aircraft both comply with the current Interpol trade standards and practices.
YURI: ( eyeing Valentine's gun pressed to Not complete, Sir. And while I hesitate to tell you your job, I must point out that when shipped separately the weapons and the aircraft both comply with the current Interpol trade standards and practices.
VALENTINE: ( incredulous ) You expect me to believe this is a I can see how certain people might interpret it as suspicious but thank God we live in a world where suspicion alone does not constitute a crime.
YURI: I can see how certain people might interpret it as suspicious but thank God we live in a world where suspicion alone does not constitute a crime.
VALENTINE: ( tosses the documents on the road ) Yuri Orlov. You and I are going to be seeing a lot of each other.
YURI: I can hardly wait.
VALENTINE: ( climbing into his Jeep ) Watch out for the time you don't see me.
BOY: ( perfect American accent ) What an asshole.
YURI: ( referring to the departing What was he doing here?
DMITRI: ( zipping his pants ) Trying to beat your offer. I sent him on his way. He doesn't understand the concept of loyalty. Speaking of loyalty, too many people know. I have to make pay-offs.
YURI: Don't worry. There're more VCR's. I left them in your new car.
DMITRI: Even your enemy was admiring that car. I am the luckiest man alive.
YURI: ( screaming to Dmitri )
AVA: ( still groggy ) Yes, I'll accept the charges.
YURI: Hey, baby. You forgotten what time it is?
AVA: Hey, baby. You forgotten what time it is?
YURI: Sorry. I, er. How was your audition?
AVA: ( resigned smile ) They're going in another direction. The direction of someone who can act.
YURI: Don't say that. You're good.
AVA: And you're biased. Where are you? Is everything okay?
AVA: ( sensing something amiss ) Where are you? Is everything okay?
YURI: Rough day at the office.
AVA: Come home. We miss you.
YURI: ( more desperate than he intended ) How's Nicki?
AVA: Asleep in our bed. It's lonely without you. Yuri, what's that?
YURI: A party.
AVA: It's always a party where you are.
YURI: I'd better go. I just wanted to callhear your voice. Kiss Nicki for me.
AVA: I love you.
YURI: Thank him but I have other business. A busy It is not optional. My father is easily
YURI: What do you know? My schedule just freed up.
YURI: Part One, Two or Three?
YURI: ( nodding ) The M60. You want the attachable grenade Please. And the armor piercing bullets. ( revving the car ) I will be back to get you in an hour.or two. It's Liberia. ( mischievous smile ) We left a welcoming present in your room.
GLORIA: Hello, Mr. Yuri.
FAITH: We'd be happy to make you happy.
GLORIA: Don't worry, we don't have anything.
YURI: How do you know?
FAITH: Do we look like it?
YURI: ( fending them off but with little What if I have AIDS? Don't you worry?
GLORIA: You worry too much.
FAITH: ( sultry ) Why worry about something that can kill you in ten years when there are so many things that can kill you today?
GLORIA: How can we make you happy?
YURI: By leaving.
YURI: ( providing a commentary ) that's the Beretta, comes with a 36 cartridge, easy-operating clip ( shocked ) Jesus, why did you do that?
BAPTISTE: What did you say?
YURI: ( feigning anger, gesturing at the Now you're going to have to buy it. ( grabbing the gun from Baptiste ) It's a used gun. I can't sell a used gun.
BAPTISTE: A used gun. That's a good one. There's no discipline with the young boys. I try to set an example but it's difficult. I blame the MTV. Let me show you something.
BAPTISTE: I can't pay your asking price, Yuri. We are not a rich people and the market is already flooded with your Kalashnikovs. In some places you can buy one for the price of a You can't just look at the unit price. You forget the ancillary costs. End user certificates need to be forged and notarized, shell companies set up, insurance purchased, pilots and crews hired. Not to mention the bribes. You can't get a nut and bolt out of the Eastern bloc without a bribe. There's one bribe for the nut. Another for the bolt. This is an expensive
YURI: You can't just look at the unit price. You forget the ancillary costs. End user certificates need to be forged and notarized, shell companies set up, insurance purchased, pilots and crews hired. Not to mention the bribes. You can't get a nut and bolt out of the Eastern bloc without a bribe. There's one bribe for the nut. Another for the bolt. This is an expensive
BAPTISTE: I pay in timber.or stones.
YURI: ( regarding the stones ) I'll take the stones. It's hard to get a tree trunk in my hand luggage.
BAPTISTE: ( referring to the inspection ) Very professional, Lieutenant.
LIEUTENANT: ( dismissing the troops )
YURI: I know you're planning a new offensive. If you delay a week I can get you the armored personnel carriers we talked about. They would give you a significant strategic
BAPTISTE: They say I am the lord of war. But perhaps it is you.
YURI: ( correcting him ) It's not "lord of war". It's "warlord".
BAPTISTE: I like it my way.
AVA: Yuri, I just got off the phone with the dealer. I sold my first painting.
YURI: ( feigning surprise ) Fantastic. Who bought it?
AVA: Someone important. They want to remain How was your trip?
YURI: You know. Same old, same old. Where's Nicki, in bed?
AVA: I'm sorry. Poor darling. He tried to stay I'll kiss him goodnight.
YURI: I'll kiss him goodnight.
VITALY: ( opening champagne ) This calls for a drink.
YURI: What doesn't?
AVA: ( still giddy at the news ) My first painting. I'm officially an
YURI: How are you, brother?
VITALY: ( shrug ) You know, still the resident family fuck-up.
YURI: Someone has to do it. She knows, right?
VITALY: She knows, right?
YURI: We don't talk about it. How many car salesmen talk about their work, how many executives at cigarette companies? And both of their products kill more people every year than mine. At least mine has a safety switch. If those guys can leave their work at the office, why can't I?
VITALY: Shit, you're good. You almost had me We're going, baby.
LATER: Yuri and Ava are alone at the window, overlooking Central Park. He hands her a fresh glass of champagne.
YURI: ( raising his glass for a toast ) To Manet, Monet.and Ava Cordova.
AVA: ( gasp ) ( shrug ) The trip went better than expected.
YURI: ( shrug ) The trip went better than expected.
AVA: ( fishing out the damp baubles ) Yuri, they're beautiful. ( flirtacious grin ) But what am I going to wear them with?
YURI: ( flirting back ) I know just the outfit.
YURI: ( to the DRIVER ) Take Park.
YURI: ( to the Driver ) This is good. ( to the Driver from the sidewalk ) Take them on a tour of the Tri-State.
VALENTINE: Where in God's name is he going? Is he
AVA: ( into phone ) Vitaly.it's Ava.
PILOT: ( to his co-pilot ) Even taking into consideration the pay-off to the parents, a week with a girl in Burkina Faso is cheaper than a night with a girl in Jersey.
PILOT: and a lot of them speak better English.
YURI: ( into phone, trying not to sound Colonel Southern, it's Yuri. Sorry to call you on this number but I've got an Interpol jet and
COL. SOUTHERN: ( into phone, measured voice ) I can't know you right now. It's not a good
YURI: ( gaping at the phone in disbelief ) Not a good time!
VALENTINE: ( radio ) Charlie, Echo, India. Comply immediately. That was your last warning.
YURI: Where was the first fucking warning?!
VALENTINE: ( radio ) Rock your wings if you intend to comply.
PILOT: ( to Yuri, anxious ) I'm putting us down.
YURI: ( incredulous ) You land and we're all going away! I don't have paperwork!
PILOT: ( incredulous ) We're in a flying fucking bomb! They're firing bullets at our bullets! Forget about going away! They shoot again, we're going away for good! I'm putting us down.
YURI: ( knowing he's right ) Okay! Okay!Fuck!!
PILOT: ( into radio ) This is Charlie Echo India. Descending on heading zero two nine.
YURI: ( pointing out a narrow highway ) Not the airport. There. The highway. It's our only fucking hope.
PILOT: ( concerned ) A pothole could set us off.
YURI: Don't underestimate yourself. You're the best, Tony.
INTERPOL PILOT: I can't land there.
VALENTINE: ( to the pilot ) He can't get far. I want a truck waiting on the tarmac.
YURI: ( to the pilots, sizing up the We're going to be okay. ( calling out from the window ) Where are you going?
PILOT: As far from the evidence as I can.
YURI: Wait, you idiots! There's not going to be any evidence! Stay with the plane!
YURI: ( to the gathering locals ) Help yourselves. Be my guest. No charge. ( to other locals ) Take the whole crate.
YURI: ( muttering under his breath, What a fucking disaster.
YURI: Hey, not those! You don't touch the plane! Not the fucking seats. Hey, you! Forget it.
VALENTINE: Hey, you! Forget it.
MBIZI: You run from us. Can you run with no legs?
VALENTINE: No, Mbizi. No, no, no.
MBIZI: Let me disappear him, Mr. Valentine. He is a devil. Let me disappear him.
VALENTINE: I can't do that.
MBIZI: Look where we are. Who will know?
VALENTINE: We will.
MBIZI: Turn your back, Mr. Valentine. I will go to hell to stop him.
VALENTINE: ( gently ) ( to his Agents ) Find the pilots. I've spent my whole career on the right side of the line. You're the first man I've encountered who makes me seriously consider crossing it.
YURI: What's the charge?
VALENTINE: What are you doing in Sierra Leone?
YURI: I'm on safari.
VALENTINE: ( referring to the bullet ) Shooting wildebeests with submachine guns?
YURI: Are you with the park service? Hunting without a license - is that the charge?
VALENTINE: You're trafficking arms.
YURI: Trading. But without evidence who can say?
VALENTINE: Trade or traffic, you make a fortune by keeping the poorest people on the planet killing each other. Do you know why I do what I do? There are more prestigious assignments, you know. Keeping track of the nuclear arsenals. You would think it more critical to world security. It's not. Nine out of ten war victims today are killed by assault rifles and other small arms - like yours. Those missiles just sit in their silos. Your AK-47 - it's the real weapon of mass
YURI: I don't want people dead, Agent Valentine. I admit, a shooting war is better for business. But I'd prefer people to fire my guns and miss. Just as long as they're I realize the unspeakable things that are done with my weapons. I also understand the unspeakable things that are done with Williams Sonoma carving knives and Wilson baseball bats and they aren't taking those off the market any time soon. People will always buy guns. Why not mine? Can I go? You've got nothing on me but cuffs.
VALENTINE: I am legally permitted to hold you for twenty-four hours without charging you. You may ask, why do I bother to do that? I can assure you, it is not because I enjoy your company. And you may be surprised to learn that it is not for any vindictive motive. No. The reason I delay you for every second of the permissible twenty-four hours, is that I am delaying your deadly trade and the deaths of your victims. I don't think of it as taking a day from you but giving a day to them. Some innocent man, woman or child somewhere has one more day on this earth because you are not See you in twenty-three hours and fifty five
VALENTINE: You'll be pleased to know your colleagues were no more co-operative than you. The locals got to them before we could. Handsome family.
VIVIAN: ( pleasantly surprised ) Yuri! Yuri Orlov!
YURI: ( giving her an embarrassed hug ) What are you doing here?
VIVIAN: What are you doing here?
YURI: ( approaching the window ) You know. Fighting the good fight.
VIVIAN: An aid program?
YURI: Uh, yes. In fact, I've just had some transport problems. You couldn't give me a ride to Monrovia, could you?
VIVIAN: Sure. Climb in. We're pulling out. It's too dangerous. It's a shame. We were really doing some good things.
YURI: Jesus! Simeon! Andre! What in heaven is he doing here?
YURI: ANDRE JNR.
YURI: You stupid old fuck!
YURI: ANDRE JNR. ( confused )
YURI: No. No. I.
YURI: ( quietly )
BARMAN: He bought you "brown-brown", Mr. Yuri.
YURI: ( wiping his nose ) What is it?
BARMAN: What is it?
YURI: What is it?
BARMAN: ( laughs ) A mixture - cocaine and gunpowder.
YURI: What does the gunpowder do?
BARMAN: It's magic. They give it to the small boys before battle - they do anything.
YURI: Some other time.
BARMAN: You have to try it at least once, Mr. Yuri.
YURI: ( laughing ) Because it's your gunpowder.
BARMAN: ( laughing ) Because it's your gunpowder.
YURI: ( to no one in particular, whipping his I'm going for a walk.
YURI: ( a mixture of French and English ) I didn't fuck you, did I? Did I fuck you?
PROSTITUTE: ( in French, as she counts Yuri's It's not what I would call a fuck.
YURI: Are you sick? Are you sick?!
GIRL #1: They will!
GIRL #2: Ask the foreigner. The foreigner will know.
YURI: GIRL #1
GIRL #1: Sir, will my fingers grow back?
YURI: Simeon turns and walks away - revealing a large exit wound in the back of his head. Yuri pokes his head through the hole but Simeon has vanished. Yuri turns back to find himself trapped by TWO MEN in flip-flops, shorts, Gap T-shirts and AK-47's. Through Yuri's eyes the two men look like four. The two/four men go through Yuri's pockets, take his watch, shoes. Yuri is oddly compliant - clumsily helping one of the thieves fasten the watch. One of the men, tired of Yuri's antics, aims his gun at Yuri's head. His colleague stops him.
MAN #1: Don't. He's Andre's.
MAN #2: ( keeping his gun raised ) Fuck Andre.
YURI: ( seemingly beyond caring ) Yeah, fuck Andre.
YURI: ( referring to the gun ) I'm sorry. They don't usually do that. Let me have a look. Maybe I can fix it.
MAN #1: ( disgusted ) Fuck off!
ANDRE BAPTISTE: Yuri, you fucked up! I am going to shoot your face off with your own gun.
YURI: ( unfazed, regarding the man ) Not bad. Andre's latest double?
ANDRE BAPTISTE: ( to Yuri, standing beside his How did you know?
YURI: He's too eloquent.
ANDRE BAPTISTE: You have no heart.
ANDRE BAPTISTE: Have you seen the news? They accuse me of rigging elections, but after this in your Florida with your Supreme Court of now the U.S. must shut up forever.
YURI: More good news. That's the last aid shipment. The war is so bad, the U.N. is pulling out.
ANDRE BAPTISTE: Why is nothing happening?
YURI: There are trucks. You just have to get all that food out of them.
AVA: Hush, Nicki. I don't believe you. Can you prove any of it? Where is your I was hoping you could help us with that. I understand your parents died tragically in EI Salvador. That regime has startling similarities to several of the regimes supplied by your Get out.
VALENTINE: I was hoping you could help us with that. I understand your parents died tragically in EI Salvador. That regime has startling similarities to several of the regimes supplied by your Get out.
AVA: Get out.
YURI: Ava, what's wrong? Where's Nicki?
AVA: ( still with her back to us ) He's with your parents.
YURI: Why aren't you dressed? I thought we were going out.
AVA: ( turning back to look at him ) I can't wear the clothes. I can't wear the jewelry. I can't drive the car. I can't live in this house. Everything1s got blood on it.
YURI: Don't be so melodramatic.
AVA: Of course I'm melodramatic. I'm a failed actress, remember? We need to talk about it.
YURI: Why? We never have before.
AVA: Now we do.
YURI: These people - you can't trust them
AVA: I've talked to your parents. Why do you think they don't want your money? They know where it comes from. We all know.
YURI: I sell people a means to defend themselves, Ava. That's all. I don't hold a gun to any one's head and make them shoot
AVA: Yuri, I see the news. Sierra Leone
YURI: I don't sell machetes.
AVA: What do you think is pointing at the victims when they use those machetes? I see the pictures. Yuri, the guns are bigger than the boys.
YURI: ( angered ) There's nothing illegal about what I do.
AVA: I don't care if it's legal, it's wrong. I can accept the drugs. I can even accept the other women. I can't accept this.
AVA: Please stop.
YURI: ( looks back ) It makes no difference if I stop. Someone will take my place the next day.
AVA: Let them. We have enough. You're not that little boy in Odessa anymore, lining up for a loaf of bread
YURI: It's not about the money.
AVA: What is it? I feel like all I've done my whole life is be pretty. All I've done is be born. I'm not just a failed actress. I'm also a failed writer, failed artist, failed businesswoman. I'm not much good as a mother. Come to think of it, I'm not even that pretty any more. I've failed at everything, Yuri. But I won't fail as a human being. I'm
YURI: You can't leave. I'll stop. I'll stop. I've been thinking about it for a while. A lot, lately. I'm making more from the oil and timber I'll stop.
AVA: ( pleading eyes ) You will? You promise?
YURI: ( deadly serious ) ( changing the subject a Now get dressed. We'll go out. By the way, you're wrong about not being pretty any more.
YURI: ( into phone ) Impossible. Two and a quarter? I can't make a profit at two and a quarter. Why don't you take my oil and I'll fucking pay
LATER: Night has fallen over Central Park - criss-crossed by a necklace of lights. Yuri continues to stare out of the window. He is perplexed by the sight of a diplomatic motorcade parked in front of his building. Before he can make sense of it, the house phone rings. AVA enters.
AVA: ( confused ) Yuri, the President of Liberia is in the
YURI: ( glance to his watch ) He's early.
TEENAGE GIRL: Liberia. Is that on Long Island?
YURI: ( nervous as hell ) What the fuck are you doing here, Andre?
ANDRE BAPTISTE: ( hugging Yuri ) We're here for the peace talks at the U.N.
YURI: ( pulling him out of earshot of the So at the same time you thought you'd drop in on your arms dealer?!
ANDRE BAPTISTE: Is that what you still are? You're a hard man to get hold of all of a sudden.
YURI: ANDRE BAPTISTE
I: ANDRE BAPTISTE
ANDRE BAPTISTE: But now you mention it, we are doing a little shopping while we're here - that is if you open for business.
YURI: ( anxious look past Andre to the motorcade They've got to be watching.
ANDRE BAPTISTE: ( disdainful shrug ) Of course they blame me. They always blame me. They are on a
YURI: ( unable to resist ) hunt for a witch?
ANDRE BAPTISTE: ( a smile, for once correcting "Witch-hunt". But I have been granted diplomatic immunity due to the escalation in hostilities. ( conspiratorial ) That is why I need you. They are making life difficult to re-supply. It will require a man of your unusual ingenuity.
YURI: I can't help you. I'm sorry.
ANDRE BAPTISTE: ( nods ) I understand. But you should know that our present difficulties compel us to be unusually ( hugging Yuri ) Farewell, Lord of War.
AVA: ( looking up from the book ) Was that about the oil or the timber?
YURI: Both. Everything.
YURI: Hey, not even waiting to say goodbye? I'm leaving in ten minutes.
AVA: Sorry, Nicki has swim practice.
NICOLAI: Bye, Papa.
YURI: ( hugging him ) See you, big guy.
AVA: ( teasing him ) Personally, I'm glad you're going. You've been here so long you're starting to get on my nerves.
YURI: ( taking the teasing good- This oil concession should be wrapped up by Thursday. I'll be back for the weekend. We'll go somewhere - the sea.
AVA: That would be fun.
YURI: You trust me, right?
AVA: Yes, I trust you.
NICOLAI: ( confused ) Where are we going, Mama?
AVA: It's a game.
NICOLAI: Like hide and seek?
AVA: EXT. PUBLIC STORAGE FACILITY. DAY. YURI locks his storage locker, observable from the street, and exits the facility carrying a passport and briefcase.
AVA: ( whisper, to herself ) Not that. Not that, Yuri.
VITALY: Come to see how the other half lives?
YURI: I miss your borscht. Mom and Dad say you're You too. They said you went legitimate - hard to believe.
VITALY: You too. They said you went legitimate - hard to believe.
YURI: That's because it's not true.
YURI: Only you know. I'm leaving tonight - on a job. I want you to come.
VITALY: I can't. I'm thinking of opening my own Maybe this trip will help. It's good money.
YURI: Maybe this trip will help. It's good money.
VITALY: ( looking to his parents ) I've given my word.
YURI: They don't have to know. We'll tell them we're going for a little "r" and "r".
VITALY: Why do you need me all of a sudden?
YURI: West Africa's fucked-up. More than usual. I can't trust anybody. I need someone to watch my back. "Brothers in arms".
YURI: ( concerned by the route ) Where are we going?
VITALY: Vitaly comes to a horrific realization. He hurries to Yuri, still negotiating with the Rebel Leader.
VITALY: Yuri, I need to talk to you.
YURI: Not now.
VITALY: ( insistent ) ( to the Rebel Leader ) Excuse me.
YURI: ( to the Rebel Leader ) Excuse me.
YURI: ( irritated by the interruption ) ( anxious whisper ) We can't do this deal.
VITALY: ( anxious whisper ) We can't do this deal.
YURI: ( incredulous ) The fuck we can't.
VITALY: ( referring to the camp ) Look over there. As soon as we leave, they're going to die.
YURI: ( averting his eyes from the camp ) It's not our business.
VITALY: ( protesting ) They killed a boy just now - as young as What's the hold up?
REBEL LEADER: What's the hold up?
YURI: ( trying to keep his poise ) There is no hold up. I'll be right there. Vitaly, it's what we always know - we can't control what they do.
VITALY: Today we can. They're right there - close enough to touch.
YURI: ( angry, impatient ) What do you think they'll do if we back out - they'll kill us.
VITALY: And if we go ahead - they'll kill them.
REBEL LEADER: What is he saying?
YURI: Vitaly realizes the futility of the discussion, backs down.
VITALY: ( resigned ) Nothing. You're right, Yuri. You're right. ( getting his head back in the Did I hear you say 300 IPG's, 500 assault rifles and 800 grenades? I thought it was 1,200 grenades. I'd better check.
VITALY: Something for Yuri.
YURI: Vitaly dashes for the second truck. The REBEL LEADER opens fire, raking Vitaly with machine-gun fire - still trying to run with legs torn to shreds. A second hail of gunfire - all REBELS firing. Vitaly's legs betray him. He collapses to the ground in a pile of blood and dust. We focus on Vitaly's still FACE - he has taken enough bullets to kill him three times over. But he is not quite dead. Agonizingly slow, he raises the grenade hand to his mouth - pulls the pin with his teeth. CLOSE on Vitaly's HAND, trying to summon the strength to throw the A hand appears, grasps Vitaly's hand - gently but firmly removing the grenade.
AGENT: ( flashing some ID ) Yuri Orlov, we're with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
YURI: ( resigned smile, regarding the Believe it or not, I only use the first two.
AGENT: You have the right to remain silent. Use
ANATOLY: "Crimean Restaurant".
IRINA: ( into phone ) Both my sons are dead.
VALENTINE: One of yours? Curiously, the death certificate says he died of heart failure.
YURI: ( shrug ) Maybe he did. ( referring to the slug ) If I saw one of those coming at me, l'd have heart failure.
VALENTINE: We performed the autopsy and released your brother's body to your family. You tried to do something decent, Yuri. You went against your nature. And now it's cost you. Your brother's funeral is looking a lot like your funeral.
YURI: Falsifying a death certificate? That's not going to hold me.
VALENTINE: You're right, as usual. Have you seen today's paper? Fake end-user certificates, cut-out companies, all meticulously catalogued. There's hardly a dictator, warlord or despot anywhere in the world you aren't on first name terms with. Your trophy wife gave us the prize. She also provided us with these - which we suspect are conflict diamonds. She has agreed to testify against you.
YURI: Enjoy it.
VALENTINE: ( confused ) This. Tell me that I am everything you despise, that I am the personification of evil, that I'm responsible for the breakdown of the social fabric of society and world order, that I am a one man genocide. Say everything you want to say to me now - because you don't have long.
YURI: This. Tell me that I am everything you despise, that I am the personification of evil, that I'm responsible for the breakdown of the social fabric of society and world order, that I am a one man genocide. Say everything you want to say to me now - because you don't have long.
VALENTINE: Are you not paying attention or are you delusional? You've broken every arms embargo written. There's enough in those briefcases to buy you consecutive life sentences. You'll spend ten years going from a cell to a courtroom before you even start doing your time. You don't seem to fully appreciate the seriousness of your situation!
YURI: ( snapping back - his emotion My family has disowned me. My wife and son have left me. My brother is dead. Trust me, I fully appreciate the seriousness of my situation. But I promise you I won't spend a single second in a courtroom.
VALENTINE: You are delusional.
YURI: I like you, Jack. Well, maybe not. But I understand you. You feel your loyalty to your badge has finally been rewarded. But you haven't counted on the people who gave you that badge. Let me tell you what's going to happen so you can prepare yourself. Soon there's going to be a knock on that door and you're going to be called outside.
YURI: ( glancing to the open newspaper ) The reason I'll be released is the same reason you think I will be convicted. I do rub shoulders with the most vile, sadistic men calling themselves leaders today. ( referring to the newspaper ) But some of those men are the enemies of your enemies. And while the biggest arms dealer in the world is your boss, the President of the United States - who ships more merchandise in a day than I do in a year - sometimes it's embarrassing to have his fingerprints on the guns. Sometimes he needs a freelancer like me to supply opposition forces he can't be seen supplying. You call me evil, but, unfortunately for you, I am a necessary evil.
VALENTINE: I would tell you to go to hell. But I think you're already there. What if I'm not? What if I sleep fine at night? What if I sleep better than you? I think that's what truly scares you.
YURI: What if I'm not? What if I sleep fine at night? What if I sleep better than you? I think that's what truly scares you.
BORDER OFFICER: ( skeptical ) Umbrellas - to Saudi Arabia?
YURI: Sun umbrellas.
BORDER OFFICER: Have a safe trip.
YURI: For someone who's never fired a gun or been in a battle, I have suffered many casualties in my life. I guess that's how I survived. I never went to war. .especially with myself.
