VOICE OVER: Dick Laurent is dead. Fred leaves the bedroom and goes through the house. He is on the upstairs level. He looks through a narrow slot window, but can't see the front door below. He goes further in the house to a picture window that overlooks the street below. There is NOBODY there.
INTERCOM: Dick Laurent is dead. Fred leaves the bedroom and goes through the house. He is on the upstairs level. He looks through a narrow slot window, but can't see the front door below. He goes further in the house to a picture window that overlooks the street below. There is NOBODY there.
RENEE: You don't mind that I'm not coming What are you going to do?
FRED: What are you going to do?
RENEE: I thought I'd stay home and read. Fred looks her over, she's sexy without trying.
FRED: Read?. Read what, Renee? Renee sits down on a couch and sips her drink. Fred comes over to her, kisses her on the neck, which makes her laugh.
FRED: It's nice to know I can still make you I like to laugh, Fred.
RENEE: I like to laugh, Fred.
FRED: That's why I married you.
RENEE: Wake me up when you get home. Fred brushes her cheek with his fingers, allowing them to linger for a moment on her face.
FRED: What's that?
RENEE: A videotape.
FRED: Who's it from?
RENEE: I don't know. There's no return address on the envelope. In fact, there's no address on it.
FRED: Does it say anything on the tape?
RENEE: ( looking it over ) No, nothing. Fred walks over and picks up the tape.
FRED: Well, let's see what's on it. Fred takes the tape to the VCR. He inserts it into the machine, and turns it on. Fred goes toward the couch.
RENEE: It must be from a real estate agent.
FRED: We see a WIDE SHOT encompassing Fred, Renee, and the snowy image on the TV.
FRED: Good book, huh?
RENEE: ( she looks up ) Huh?. oh, yeah, it is.
FRED: Same one you were reading the other What night?
RENEE: What night?
FRED: When you didn't come to the club.
RENEE: Oh. Oh, yeah. No. This is a different I called, you know.
FRED: I called, you know.
RENEE: Called? When?
FRED: From the club. You didn't answer.
RENEE: I must have fallen asleep. I was asleep when you got home, wasn't I?
FRED: You were asleep when I got home, yes. Renee goes back to her book. Fred sips his coffee and I told you you could wake me up if you wanted to. Renee looks up at him now, takes off her glasses, and stares at him. CLOSE UP OF FRED'S FACE - a disturbed expression. Renee seems about to say something more, but stops, puts her glasses back on and resumes reading.
RENEE: ( without looking up ) I told you you could wake me up if you wanted to. Renee looks up at him now, takes off her glasses, and stares at him. CLOSE UP OF FRED'S FACE - a disturbed expression. Renee seems about to say something more, but stops, puts her glasses back on and resumes reading.
FRED: I had a dream about you last night.
RENEE: You were in the house. calling my name. but I couldn't find you.
FRED: You were in the house. calling my name. but I couldn't find you.
FRED'S DREAM: Fred is walking slowly across the living room. Fred's POV: moving - searching. Fred stops and listens.
RENEE: ( tentatively - distant and off screen ) Fred? Fred, where are you? The camera turns slowly back toward the hallway, and as it drifts it RISES UP following along the hall and turning slowly into the bedroom. Renee is lying below in the bed.
RENEE: Fred, are you all right? Fred reaches out a hand and tenderly touches her face. Renee covers his hand with her own, and closes her eyes.
FRED: You're up early.
RENEE: That dog woke me. I lay there for a while, then decided to get up.
FRED: Who the hell owns that dog? Fred notices the tape and manila envelope on the table.
FRED: What's that? Another tape?
RENEE: Yes, I just found it on the step. Fred picks it up.
FRED: Don't you want to watch it?
RENEE: I guess so. Fred goes to the VCR and inserts the tape. He turns the television on. He is about to start the tape - he looks up for Renee. She's hanging back.
FRED: Well, do you wanna watch it? Again, Renee seems to be nervous about what could be on the tape, but she hides this from Fred and walks toward the Renee sits on the couch. Fred starts the VCR and joins her. As before, we first see it on the TV, then the videotape fills the frame. This tape shows the front of the house, as before, then shows the INTERIOR of Fred and Renee's house -
RENEE: Renee sits on the couch. Fred starts the VCR and joins her. As before, we first see it on the TV, then the videotape fills the frame. This tape shows the front of the house, as before, then shows the INTERIOR of Fred and Renee's house -
RENEE: We've got to call the police.
FRED: All right.
RENEE: .yes, I've been on hold for ten minutes. I can't. All right, thanks. Renee looks around anxiously. Fred gives her his cigarette, which she puffs on. He lights another and continues pacing.
RENEE: Hello, yes. Good. My name is Renee Madison. My husband is Fred Madison, the jazz musician. we live at 442 Hollis Street. Right. 442 Hollis. near the observatory. Someone's been in the house. at night. while we were sleeping. I know because they sent, dropped off a videotape. two videotapes. to show us. That's right. Yes. it. the second one. shows us asleep. Someone broke in and taped us while we slept!. Isn't that enough?. Okay, sure. We will. 442 Hollis. Yes, we'll be here. Renee hangs up.
FRED: Two detectives are coming out.
RENEE: Two detectives are coming out.
FRED: That's it.
ED: Let's have a look at the hallway outside the bedroom.
AL: Very strange.
RENEE: What is?
AL: The angle. The high angle shot on the How'd the camera get so high like that?
ED: How'd the camera get so high like that?
AL: And smooth. Almost no movement - back and forth, I mean.
ED: Like you'd get if it was hand held.
AL: Right . This just glided along.
ED: This is the bedroom. The Detectives look around without touching anything.
AL: Do you always sleep here?. In this room?. Both of you?
FRED: This is our bedroom.
ED: There's no other bedroom?
FRED: No. There is, I mean, I use it as a practice room. it's soundproofed.
AL: You're a musician?
FRED: Yes, I thought my wife .
ED: What's your axe?
FRED: Tenor. Tenor saxophone. Do you.
ED: ( shakes his head ) Tone deaf.
AL: ( to Renee ) Do you own a video camera?
RENEE: No. Fred hates them. The Detectives both look at Fred.
FRED: I like to remember things my own way.
AL: What do you mean by that?
FRED: How I remember them. Not necessarily the way they happened.
ED: Do you have an alarm system?
RENEE: Yes, actually we do. but we haven't been using it.
AL: Why not?
FRED: It kept going off for some reason. False Might be a good time to try using it Anybody else have a key to the house.
ED: Might be a good time to try using it Anybody else have a key to the house.
AL: Anybody else have a key to the house.
RENEE: Maid? Relative?
AL: Maid? Relative?
RENEE: No, one of us is always here to let the maid in. Nobody else has a key.
ED: ( to Al ) Let's check the doors and windows. See if there's been a break-in. They all leave the bedroom.
AL: We'll keep a watch on the house.
ED: As best we can.
AL: If anything else happens, you'll call us. Al hands Fred a card. Ed hands Renee a card.
RENEE: We will.
FRED: Thanks, guys.
ED: It's what we do. Ed and Al get into the car and drive off. Renee and Fred look at each other, warily, then go back into the house. THE
RENEE: What the hell is going on?!
FRED: ( equally horrified - frightened ) I wish I knew. Fred reaches over and tentatively takes Renee's hand in his. She trembles, allows him to touch her, but otherwise does not respond. Suddenly, she jumps with fright.
RENEE: What was that?!!!
FRED: On the tape! There was something else on the tape. Fred gets up and rewinds it, passing an image.
RENEE: On the tape! There was something else on the tape. Fred gets up and rewinds it, passing an image.
AL: You don't remember being awakened? It looks like you were aware of someone.
ED: Or something.
FRED: No, I don't remember anything. it looks like I. but. I don't remember.
RENEE: Why would anyone do something like this?
AL: Has anyone made any threats to either of you recently?
ED: Or not so recently?
FRED: No, not to me. Al, Ed and Fred all look at Renee.
RENEE: I. no. No. No threats.
ED: We'll take the tapes with us, if that's all right with you? Ed looks at Fred, then Renee, both of whom nod their We'll see that the patrol of the house is I don't know if I want to stay here. I don't feel safe.
AL: We'll see that the patrol of the house is I don't know if I want to stay here. I don't feel safe.
RENEE: I don't know if I want to stay here. I don't feel safe.
FRED: Where would you feel safe?
RENEE: I don't know. maybe a hotel. Ed and Al are watching this exchange between Fred and Renee with keen interest. There is a strained silence between them.
ED: Did you use the alarm system since we were here last?
FRED: The first night . Not the last two.
AL: Why not?
FRED: ( shrugs ) I forgot. Anyway, I hate the idea of acting paranoid.
RENEE: Acting paranoid?!!! Someone is in our house while we're sleeping, filming us, and you don't want to act paranoid?!!! I thought you set the alarm! Fred gets up, lights a cigarette, paces.
FRED: I'll make sure the alarm is set from now But that doesn't solve the problem. Who is doing this? And why? Ed and Al rise from their chairs. Ed picks up the envelopes.
RENEE: But that doesn't solve the problem. Who is doing this? And why? Ed and Al rise from their chairs. Ed picks up the envelopes.
AL: We'll find out, Mrs. Madison. Renee stands with the Detectives. Fred stands apart - his expression, pained and bewildered.
MYSTERY MAN: We've met before, haven't we?
FRED: I don't think so. Where was it that you think we've met?
MYSTERY MAN: At your house. Don't you remember?
FRED: ( surprised ) No, no I don't. Are you sure?
MYSTERY MAN: Of course. In fact, I'm there right now.
FRED: ( incredulous ) What do you mean? You're where right At your house.
MYSTERY MAN: At your house.
FRED: That's absurd. The Mystery Man reaches into his coat pocket, takes out a cellular phone and holds it out to Fred.
MYSTERY MAN: Call me. Fred snickers, like this is a bad joke. The Mystery Man puts the phone into Fred's hand.
MYSTERY MAN: ( CON-T ) Dial your number. Fred hesitates, puzzled.
MYSTERY MAN: ( CON-T ) Go ahead. Fred shrugs, laughs, dials his number. We HEAR a pick up as we stay on FRED'S FACE.
MYSTERY MAN: I told you I was here. Fred, still holding the phone, stares at the man standing in front of him.
FRED: How did you do that? The Mystery Man points to the phone.
MYSTERY MAN: Ask me. Fred, mirthful at first, as if it is a party trick of some kind, suddenly turns serious - it's obvious he's thinking now of the videotapes. He speaks into the phone.
FRED: ( angrily ) How did you get into my house?
MYSTERY MAN: You invited me. It's not my habit to go where I'm not wanted. Fred looks at the man in front of him, but speaks again into the phone.
FRED: Who are you? The man laughs - identical laughs - both over the phone and in person.
MYSTERY MAN: Give me my phone back. The man in front of Fred reaches out his hand for the phone. Fred hears the line go dead, and he slowly passes the phone back to the Mystery Man who takes it, folds it, and puts it in his pocket.
MYSTERY MAN: It's been a pleasure talking to you. The man walks away from Fred. Renee appears and comes up to Fred.
RENEE: I thought you were getting me a drink?
FRED: Just a minute. He takes Renee by the arm and goes over to the host of the party, Andy. He grabs Andy and points across the room toward the Mystery Man, who is engaged in conversation with OTHER
FRED: Andy, who is that guy?
ANDY: ( looking at the Mystery Man ) I don't know his name. He's a friend of Dick Laurent's, I think.
FRED: Dick Laurent?
ANDY: Yes, I believe so.
FRED: ( remembering something ) But Dick Laurent is dead, isn't he?
ANDY: He is? I didn't think you knew Dick. How do you know he's dead? Andy and Renee exchange a worried look, which Fred does not notice.
FRED: I don't. I don't know him.
ANDY: ( angrily ) Dick can't be dead. Who told you he was Honey, who?. Who's dead? Fred takes Renee by the arm away from Andy.
RENEE: Honey, who?. Who's dead? Fred takes Renee by the arm away from Andy.
FRED: Let's go home.
RENEE: Now! We're leaving now! I didn't want to come here in the first place. Fred drags the reluctant Renee out of Andy's house.
FRED: Now! We're leaving now! I didn't want to come here in the first place. Fred drags the reluctant Renee out of Andy's house.
FRED: How'd you meet that asshole, Andy, Renee stares out the front window - thinks back.
RENEE: It was a long time ago. I met him at this place called Moke's. We. became friends. He told me about a job.
FRED: What job?
RENEE: I don't remember. Anyway, Andy's He's got some fucked up friends.
FRED: He's got some fucked up friends.
FRED: Stay in the car! Fred enters the house, careful to turn off the alarm first.
FRED: I told you to stay in the car!
RENEE: Why? what is it? Why did you make me wait out here?
FRED: I thought there might be somebody inside.
RENEE: Was there?
FRED: No. of course not. They enter the house.
RENEE: It's so odd. Waiting out there, I had the strangest feeling. Like this had happened before. I mean, your telling me to stay outside while you went in like Fred looks at Renee, then continues to look around the house, disturbed, seriously disquieted. Renee, still tipsy, follows him, moving from room to room.
RENEE: ( tentatively ) Fred? Fred, where are you?
FRED: Fred looks up as if seeing something, he starts to stand, -staggering, partially paralyzed.
RENEE!: CUT TO: INT. POLICE STATION - INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT back in a chair. Ed and Al are standing in front of Fred.
ED: Stay put, killer! The Detectives' POV: Fred's face is a bloody mask. He is crying, whimpering.
FRED: I didn't kill her! Tell me I didn't kill INT. JAIL CELL - DAY Fred, his lips and eyes swollen, sits on a cot, dressed in jail clothes. He studies his hands, which appear crippled. He flexes the fingers, slowly, painfully.
ATTENDANT: Hi, doc. Workin' late tonight, huh?
ATTENDANT: Howdy, Joyce.
JOYCE: Howdy, George. The Attendant uncovers the body - individual parts are wrapped like packages from a butcher's shop, and labeled: L. ARM, HEAD, R. BREST ( misspelled ).
JOYCE: I don't know if I can watch this. The M.E. tosses his cigarette down on the floor. The camera goes down on the smoking cigarette butt on the floor drain; smoldering there among hair and flesh gristle on the drain's filter screen.
JOYCE: You talking to me or. her?
JUDGE: Have you reached a verdict?
FOREMAN: Yes, we have, your honor.
JUDGE: Please hand it to the bailiff. The BAILIFF goes to the Foreman, takes the paper from her, then takes it to the Judge. The Judge opens it and reads it to himself, then hands it back to the Bailiff, who returns it to the Foreman.
JUDGE: And what is your verdict? The camera moves to Fred, registering his tension. The camera goes to the Foreman's face.
FOREMAN: We the jury find the defendant guilty of murder in the first degree. Fred faints. Fe is lifted up by his ATTORNEY and GUARDS in attendance. Fred revives slightly.
JUDGE: Fred Madison, the jury having found you guilty of murder in the first degree, it is my order that on a date to be determined, you be put to death in the electric chair. We see Fred's eyes roll open as he cranes his neck around and upwards, looking at the video camera high on the wall of the courtroom, pointing down on him.
RAQUEL: Did you see that about the guy who chopped up his wife into a million How could I miss it? The TV won't quit with that stuff.
MARIAN: How could I miss it? The TV won't quit with that stuff.
RAQUEL: They're gonna cook him.
MARIAN: Andy's from Utah. He says there you have a choice. You can die by hanging or by firing squad.
RAQUEL: Which would you choose? Marian holds up a black teddy to her body.
MARIAN: Andy would go for this, don't you think?. Firing squad, definitely.
RAQUEL: Do they aim for the head or for the The heart, I guess.
MARIAN: The heart, I guess.
RAQUEL: I wouldn't. The brain would know what's going on. Your heart would be ripped open trying to pump blood, blood pouring into the chest cavity. Savage pain, Raquel takes a red teddy and holds it up to her chest.
MARIAN: Oh, that's hot. So you'd rather be hung, huh? They both giggle at the obvious joke.
RAQUEL: Absolutely. Soon as your neck snaps, you black out. It might take a while for the body to die, but you wouldn't feel Marian reaches for a pair of panties with a hole in the crotch.
MARIAN: You might be right, Raquel. Marian sticks a finger through the hole in the panties and wiggles it. The girls giggle. Raquel sees Andy walking into the store. He is sneaking up behind Marian, and motions with a finger to his lips to Raquel not to say anything. When Andy gets directly behind Marian, he puts his hands over her Guess who?
ANDY: Guess who?
GUARD: Make yourself to home, fella. The guards leave. Fred stands near the cell door, begins to look around at the four walls, the single cot, the wash basin, and the toilet bowl without a seat. He hears the muffled, DISTORTED NOISES - VOICES from the surrounding cells. Lost voices - the voices of death row. Fred realizes where he is now. He walks over to the cot and slowly sinks down and sits on the edge. Fred perched on the cot in his cell resembles a man adrift on a tiny raft in the middle of an ocean.
GUARD #1: ( very quietly - solemnly ) Here he comes. Several of the men in suits, along with several GUARDS, and a CLERGYMAN, a PRISONER in the middle of the group, enter the hallway. They proceed past the guard station down the hall. As the procession files by, DEATH ROW INMATES come to their doors and talk to the prisoner.
INMATE #1: See you soon, Sammy. Don't think takin' a jolt is gonna get you outta payin' me back the twenty you owe me.
INMATE #2: Don't take it personal, pal.
INMATE #3: Un fuerte abrazo, amigo! As the men march down the hallway, they pass Fred's cell. His window panel is empty. The camera stops on Fred's cell door, as we HEAR other prisoners talking to the inmate on his way to the ELECTRIC CHAIR.
INMATE #4: Hang in there, honey.
INMATE #5: Keep an eye out for me, Sammy G.
INMATE #6: Show 'em you got big stones, bro.
WARDEN: ( into phone ) Line check. ( pause ) The Warden hangs up the telephone and stays next to it. We see one of the condemned man's WRISTS being clamped with an electrical device. The other wrist is clamped. A metal halo is placed around the condemned man's head. A large electrical cable leads off from the halo. Electrically conductive ointment is smeared around the areas where the clamps have been placed. The Clergyman moves close to the condemned man continuing to give the man his last rites. When he is finished, he nods to the Warden. The Warden approaches the condemned man.
WARDEN: Any final words, Sam? The condemned man shakes his head "no". The Warden and the others clear the room and the doors are The EXECUTIONER steps into place near a huge lever. He looks to the Warden. The Witnesses sit in silent anticipation. The hands of the clock on the wall have moved past midnight. The Warden takes one last look through a window at the condemned man - then nods to the Executioner.
GUARD: Something wrong?
FRED: My. My head.
GUARD: Headache, huh? Too much sun, I guess. You want to come in? Still got forty- five minutes outside if you want it.
FRED: No, no. I want to go in. The guard assists Fred back inside the building.
GUARD: What's botbering you, Madison?
FRED: The pain is getting worse. I need more I can't give you anymore. I'll talk to the doctor. The guard leaves. Fred collapses to the floor of the cell, writhing in pain.
GUARD: I can't give you anymore. I'll talk to the doctor. The guard leaves. Fred collapses to the floor of the cell, writhing in pain.
DOCTOR: You sleeping okay?
FRED: ( strained whisper ) I can't sleep. The Doctor goes over to a cabinet, unlocks a drawer, and removes a large blue pill. He fills a paper cup with water from a dispenser, goes back to Fred and places the pill in Fred's mouth. The Doctor tilts Fred's head up and pours the water down his throat, some of it dribbling down the front of Fred's shirt. The Doctor looks into Fred's mouth to make sure he swallowed the pill.
DOCTOR: You'll sleep now. Take him back to his cell. The guards lift Fred by his arms, and shuffle march him out of the infirmary.
GUARD: What is it?
FRED: Aspirin. fly head. I gotta have more The doctor said not to give you anything. You can see him in the morning.
GUARD: The doctor said not to give you anything. You can see him in the morning.
FRED: But my head. The guard looks at Fred through the window, and what he sees disturbs him. The guard makes a strange face.
GUARD #1: Shit, that wife killer's lookin' pretty fucked up.
GUARD #2: ( not looking up from his magazine ) Which one? They both laugh.
GUARD: Who are you? What are you doing in this The MAN in the cell sits still on the cot, staring straight ahead. The man is thin, younger than Fred.
GUARD: This is Johnny Mack at station 8. Yeah, look, somethin' crazy's happened. No, I mean, Madison ain't in his cell. No, there's somebody in there, but it ain't Madison! Right, right. Okay. Captain Henderson's comin''?. Right. Johnny Mack hangs up. He sweats. He walks back down the row and looks in again at Fred's cell.
JOHNNY MACK: F-u-u-u-ck me! He walks back to the station. A supervisor arrives, CAPTAIN
CAPTAIN HENDERSON: Now, Mack, what's the situation?
JOHNNY MACK: I'm not entirely certain, Captain. You'll have to see for yourself. Together they walk quickly to Fred's cell and look in.
CAPTAIN HENDERSON: That's not Fred Madison?
JOHNNY MACK: No, sir, it's not.
CAPTAIN HENDERSON: Who is it?
JOHNNY MACK: I couldn't say, sir. Captain Henderson?
CAPTAIN HENDERSON: Yeah, Mack?
J0HNNY MACK: Captain. this is some spooky shit we got here.
WARDEN: Repeat that, Bill.
CAPTAIN HENDERSON: Warden, it's not him. It .was not Fred Madison in that cell.
WARDEN: Of course, it's Madison!!! Who else could it be?
CAPTAIN HENDERSON: I don't know. The guards say they've never seen him before.
WARDEN: Where is he now?
CAPTAIN HENDERSON: He's in the infirmary, being examined.
WARDEN: Did you ask him who he is?
CAPTAIN HENDERSON: He. He can't talk. it appears as if he can't talk, anyway.
WARDEN: If he's not Madison, then where's I've got men searching the building and the grounds now. The Warden stands up and comes around the desk.
CAPTAIN HENDERSON: I've got men searching the building and the grounds now. The Warden stands up and comes around the desk.
WARDEN: I want to take a look at this man myself.
WARDEN: What is this, Rogoff?
DR. ROGOFF: I don't know yet. Dr. Rogoff begins to draw blood from the man's arm. He takes several vials. The man watches the blood coming out of his arm, but doesn't seem to understand where he is or what is happening to him.
WARDEN: Who is this man?
DR. ROGOFF: He's just been fingerprinted, and I'll run these blood tests right away. We'll find out soon enough. Dr. Rogoff opens the man's mouth and peers in with a pencil He's not Madison?
WARDEN: He's not Madison?
DR. ROGOFF: ( slowly, deliberately Not even close. Dr. Rogoff stands up, puts the light in his breast pocket.
WARDEN: A headache?
DR. ROGOFF: I did a routine once-over, and gave him a sleeping pill. I've never seen this man before. Neither have the guards. I don't think he's in the system. The Warden moves closer to the man - he looks closely at him.
WARDEN: Where the hell did you come from, mister? CLOSE UP OF THE MAN - he's staring straight up.
WARDEN: Well, gentlemen, we know who the stranger is. His name is Peter Raymond Dayton. He's twenty-four years old. His birthday is April 21st. He was born and raised right here. He lives with his parents, William and Claire Dayton at 814 Garland Avenue. Pete Dayton was arrested five
CAPTAIN HENDERSON: Nothing, Marsh. Vanished. There's an APB out on him. His photo's been faxed I had a call from the governor's office about this.
WARDEN: How the hell does she know?
WARDEN: How the hell. 7
CAPTAIN HENDERSON: One of the guards must have leaked it.
WARDEN: What's the word on the street?
WARDEN: Good, let's keep it that way. Keep a lid on Dayton. Nothing gets out about him.
WARDEN: I have a statement to read. Fred Madison, an inmate being held on death row has, apparently. has escaped. An all-points bulletin has been issued to authorities not only statewide, but nationwide. We are confindent that he will be apprehended very soon. No further details are available at this time. Thank you very much.
REPORTER: Warden, nobody's ever escaped from death row before. How did he get out? The Warden and Captain Henderson leave the room without INT. PRISON - LONG CORRIDOR - DAY Pete's parents, BILL and CLAIRE DAYTON, escorted by a PRISON GUARD, are approaching the Warden's office. It is a long walk along the corridor and the camera examines them in detail as they get closer and closer to the office. The Daytons are a middle-aged, San Fernando Valley couple. Bill Dayton is wearing a sport shirt with the short-sleeves rolled up. His skin is leathery, tanned and his thinning hair is slicked back in a duck-tail. He's working-class, ex-biker. Claire Dayton was obviously a good looking "chick" who's gone to seed from too much sun, cigarettes and booze. She retains the remnants of a good figure, but it's going fast. Claire is wearing sunglasses.
WARDEN: I'm Warden Clements. This is Captain Henderson and Dr. Rogoff. Please, sit Bill and Claire move to the chairs in front of the desk and sit down. The Warden, Dr. Rogoff and Captain Henderson all sit down.
BILL: The wife killer?
WARDEN: How is this possible, Warden? The warden shakes his head.
CLAIRE: How is this possible, Warden? The warden shakes his head.
WARDEN: .Tell me, what was Peter's condition the last time you saw him? Bill and Claire look at each other again - briefly.
BILL: His condition? What do you mean?
WARDEN: His physical condition.
BILL: ( hesitates ) Same as always. Pete takes care of Bill and Claire look at each other once again.
CLAIRE: I saw him before he went to the garage day before yesterday. He's a mechanic. Look, is he okay? Can we see him? The Warden looks at Dr. Rogoff.
DR. ROGOFF: He has a hematoma on his forehead and a condition called blepharitis. that's redness and swelling around the eyes.
BILL: Was he in a fight?
DR. ROGOFF: These conditions don't indicate a fight.
CLAIRE: But what is the cause then? . And how did he get in that cell?
DR. ROGOFF: He can't talk. Or won't.
BILL: That doesn't sound like Pete.
DR. ROGOFF: Your son has experienced some sort of trauma, I'm afraid. We were hoping that the two of you could help explain the cause of the trauma and how he came to be You don't know Fred Madison?
CAPTAIN HENDERSON: You don't know Fred Madison?
BILL: No. Only what was in the news.
CAPTAIN HENDERSON: Do you think Pete knows him?
CLAIRE: I wouldn't know how.
WARDEN: ( to Claire ) You say you haven't seen your son since the day before yesterday?
CLAIRE: When he went to work, right.
WARDEN: What about yesterday?
CLAIRE: He didn't come home.
BILL: Sometimes he stays at a friend's.
CAPTAIN HENDERSON: Any particular friends?
BILL: A girl's, a buddy's. I don't know. He's his own man; he comes and goes as he I want to see him.
CLAIRE: I want to see him.
WARDEN: Yes, and we need to talk to him. if we Mel, let's get Peter in here. Dr. Rogoff leaves the room. While he's gone, nobody talks, increasing the tension. Dr. Rogoff returns with Pete Dayton, dressed in his own clothes: jeans, boots, sport shirt. Pete's forehead is lumpy and his eyes are red and swollen. He can walk, but unsteadily. Pete looks around the room - sees his parents. Claire jumps up.
CLAIRE: ( tenderly ) She and Dr. Rogoff help get Pete settled in a chair. Bill is taken aback at the sight of his son, but says nothing.
CLAIRE: Pete, what happened to you? Pete has a dazed look on his face. He starts to speak, then It's okay. Take your time, honey. Pete's gaze drifts from his mother's face around the room and back to her face.
PETE: ( afraid - quiet ) Where . am I? The Warden and Captain Henderson look to Dr. Rogoff.
DR. ROGOFF: You're in the state penitentiary. You were found in a cell on death row.
PETE: My head hurts. Pete rubs his head like it's about to explode with pain.
WARDEN: A man named Fred Madison was occupying that cell. He's missing. we're trying to find out how it is you were in there and not him.
PETE: I. I don't know.
CAPTAIN HENDERSON: Do you know Fred Madison?
PETE: ( straining ) There is a silence in the room, as Pete massages his throbbing temples.
CLAIRE: ( worried ) Warden, can we take him home? The Warden looks at Dr. Rogoff.
DR. ROGOFF: ( to Warden ) From a medical standpoint, I don't see why not.
CAPTAIN HENDERSON: We need to find out what happened here.
BILL: ( standing up ) Have you made any charges against him?
WARDEN: Then he's coming home with his mother and All right. but you see our predicament. Legally we can't hold him, but he may be able to help us. perhaps later. For now, he's free to Bill and Claire help Pete up and carefully escort him out of the warden's office. With a nod from the Warden, the guard accompanies them out of the room. The Warden, Captain Henderson and Dr. Rogoff stand but remain in the office.
BILL: Then he's coming home with his mother and All right. but you see our predicament. Legally we can't hold him, but he may be able to help us. perhaps later. For now, he's free to Bill and Claire help Pete up and carefully escort him out of the warden's office. With a nod from the Warden, the guard accompanies them out of the room. The Warden, Captain Henderson and Dr. Rogoff stand but remain in the office.
WARDEN: All right. but you see our predicament. Legally we can't hold him, but he may be able to help us. perhaps later. For now, he's free to Bill and Claire help Pete up and carefully escort him out of the warden's office. With a nod from the Warden, the guard accompanies them out of the room. The Warden, Captain Henderson and Dr. Rogoff stand but remain in the office.
CAPTAIN HENDERSON: ( to warden ) You just gonna let him go?
WARDEN: We'll get a tail put on him.
BILL: Just rest easy, Pete. You're gonna be Are you hungry, honey? I'll fix you No. I don't feel so good. I would like some aspirin.
CLAIRE: Are you hungry, honey? I'll fix you No. I don't feel so good. I would like some aspirin.
PETE: No. I don't feel so good. I would like some aspirin.
CLAIRE: Coming up.
ED: Thanks, Al. Al studies Pete Dayton's face in the photo.
AL: Now we'll see what this son of a bitch is up to.
ED: Ed and Al sip their coffee and stare at the house.
CLAIRE: I'm in the kitchen. Bill comes in and pops a beer - looks around.
BILL: Where's Pete?
CLAIRE: Out in back.
BILL: You talk to him?
CLAIRE: ( urgent ) No. Here he comes. Their gazes follow a path from the backyard into where Pete has been sitting all the time.
BILL: How're you feelin'? Pete looks at his parents - he can't figure out what has just Arnie called this morning while you were sleepin'. They miss you pretty bad down at the garage. I told 'im you still had a "fever".
PETE: ( unsure - brow furrowed ) Arnie called this morning while you were sleepin'. They miss you pretty bad down at the garage. I told 'im you still had a "fever".
BILL: Arnie called this morning while you were sleepin'. They miss you pretty bad down at the garage. I told 'im you still had a "fever".
PETE: Okay. Thanks.
BILL: Nice to know they can't seem to get along without ya.
PETE: You really don't remember the other night, do you?
BILL: You really don't remember the other night, do you?
PETE: What night is that?
BILL: The night before you showed up in the Do you remember?
CLAIRE: Do you remember?
PETE: No. I don't. Why? Bill and Claire just stare at him. Pete shakes his head and takes another bite of his sandwich - but inside the worrisome feeling returns.
"V": Where the fuck have you been? Pete pulls himself up to a sitting position.
PETE: You look like shit.
CARL: You look like shit.
LANIE: What happened?
PETE: Just haven't been feelin' well.
"V": You're not contagious are you?
PETE: I don't think so.
"V": Good. You up for a drive?
PETE: Where to? Hey, Lanie, I heard you were out of it for a while, too.
LANIE: They found a cyst on my god damn ovary. Had to cut it out. You wanna see the Lanie pulls up her shirt and pulls down her pants a ways revealing a fresh scar about three inches long.
CARL: ( winking ) Hadn't slowed her down none.
LANIE: ( smacking him ) Shut up, bone-head. Then Lanie laughs good-naturedly.
"V": Just goin' up'ta "Tops". Maybe the "Ten Sheila'll be at "Tops".
PETE: Sheila'll be at "Tops".
"V": Sure, what's wrong with that?
PETE: Pete hauls himself up off the bed and throws on a black leather jacket. The four of them go through the living room where Bill and Claire are drinking and watching TV.
PETE: ( to Bill and Claire ) Goin' out with these clowns for a while.
BILL: Do ya good. After Pete leaves with his friends, Bill and Claire look at each other.
PETE: I hate ridin' in this fuckin' car.
CARL: Take it easy, Pete, "V" loves this rod.
"V": Look at that goin' my way. "V" has seen a couple. of GIRLS in short, tight dresses walking up the boulevard.
LANIE: Keep it in your pants, "V". Some big cars nearby rev their engines. "V" guns his car and it lurches roughly forward. The sound of the rough running engine reverberates in Pete's brain.
PETE: This rod is a fuckin, embarrassment, Carl. Whatiya burn in this thing, "V"?
"V": Texaco. What's wrong with that?
PETE: You gotta be kiddin'. This is the boulevard. You can't hear yourself Pete shakes his bead with disgust. "V" pulls the car off the boulevard into "Tops" drive-in. Cars are lined up at the "to go" window and all along the side of the building where people are hanging out under a long metal awning. MUSIC is playing LOUD. "V" pulls into a parking spot by the awning. The headlights illuminate a group of HIPSTERS - some dancing, some just hanging out. THREE or FOUR GIRLS hanging out together turn toward "V's" car. They see Pete in the front seat, and one of the girls, Sheila, smiles and walks toward him.
"V": You gotta be kiddin'. This is the boulevard. You can't hear yourself Pete shakes his bead with disgust. "V" pulls the car off the boulevard into "Tops" drive-in. Cars are lined up at the "to go" window and all along the side of the building where people are hanging out under a long metal awning. MUSIC is playing LOUD. "V" pulls into a parking spot by the awning. The headlights illuminate a group of HIPSTERS - some dancing, some just hanging out. THREE or FOUR GIRLS hanging out together turn toward "V's" car. They see Pete in the front seat, and one of the girls, Sheila, smiles and walks toward him.
SHEILA: Hey. Where have you been? Pete talks to her through the open window while "V", Carl and Lanie climb out through "V's" door. "V" leans back in.
"V": ( to Pete ) You want somethin'?
PETE: No, I'm okay. "V" walks off with the others to the "take out" window. Sheila leans in closer to Pete.
SHEILA: I missed you.
PETE: Sheila's girlfriends saunter over and lean on the car around her - looking in at Pete.
SHEILA: Sheila's girlfriends saunter over and lean on the car around her - looking in at Pete.
GIRL #1: What happened to your face?
PETE: What are you guys doin'?
SHEILA: What are you guys doin'?
PETE: Guess we're goin' over to the "Ten Pin".
SHEILA: You want some company?
PETE: "V", Carl and Lanie return with burgers and drinks. "V's" got a mouthful of burger.
"V": ( muffled ) What's happenin'?
PETE: They're comin' with us.
"V": ( muffled and spitting ) Pile in. Sheila and her girlfriends jump in the car with "V", Carl, Lanie and Pete. "V" fires up the rough-running engine and pulls out - leaving behind a cloud of smoke.
SHEILA: Why haven't you called me?
PETE: Sorry. I. Sheila looks around and moves closer to Pete. She whispers urgently, worried.
SHEILA: ( whispering ) What's happening to you? What happened to your face?
PETE: I don't know.
SHEILA: ( whispering ) What do you mean? . You've been acting strange lately . Like the other night.
PETE: What night?
SHEILA: Last time I saw you.
PETE: I don't remember. What happened that You sure weren't acting like the Pete Dayton I've always known.
SHEILA: You sure weren't acting like the Pete Dayton I've always known.
PETE: Whatiya mean?
SHEILA: You were acting like a different person. Pete laughs, but Sheila doesn't.
PETE: Who else could I be7 Sheila stares seriously at Pete, but then laughs too.
SHEILA: I don't know. Sheila leans in very close to Pete and whispers in his ear.
PETE: Sure. Sure I do. Sheila pushes her mouth on Pete's and they kiss., Pete breaks away - looks at Sheila - serious.
SHEILA: You really don't remember?
PETE: No. I told you.
SHEILA: It was weird.
PETE: Whatiya mean, Sheila?
SHEILA: I don't want to talk about it.
PETE: No. I really don't want to talk about EXT. TEN PIN BOWLING ALLEY - NIGHT Ed and Al sit in their unmarked police car watching the bowling alley entrance and "V's" car.
SHEILA: No. I really don't want to talk about EXT. TEN PIN BOWLING ALLEY - NIGHT Ed and Al sit in their unmarked police car watching the bowling alley entrance and "V's" car.
ARNIE: Wonderful!!. Wonderful to see you, Pete. How are you?
PETE: ( climbing out of the Camaro ) Feeling good, Arnie. Ready to get to Wonderful, Pete. Really wonderful. Alotta people Pete. alotta people are gonna be very happy. Arnie takes Pete by the arm and they go inside the garage.
ARNIE: Wonderful, Pete. Really wonderful. Alotta people Pete. alotta people are gonna be very happy. Arnie takes Pete by the arm and they go inside the garage.
ARNIE: Mr. Smith has been waiting for you and Mrs. Trueworthy. Can you take care of Mr. Smith now?
PETE: Mr. Eddy's called every day. Can I call him to come in?
ARNIE: Mr. Eddy's called every day. Can I call him to come in?
PETE: Sure, Arnie. Bring 'em on, I'm ready. Pete walks over to a Ford Station wagon and pops the hood. A happy MR. SMITH comes out of the office to join Pete at his EXT. ARNIE'S GARAGE - MORNING Ed and Al pull to a stop down the street from the garage. Ed kills the engine and they stare at Arnie's.
MR. EDDY: PETE!!! WHERE'S PETE?!! Pete comes up out of the well and turns. When he sees Mr. Eddy, he heads across ihe garage to greet him. Mr. Eddy opens his arms wide and embraces Pete. When he pulls away, he sees Pete's face.
PETE: No, it's nothin'. I'm all right.
MR. EDDY: Because if anybody's givin' you trouble, Pete, I can take care of the problem. like that.
PETE: No, no. It's okay, Mr. Eddy.
MR. EDDY: I mean it, Pete. Like THAT!!
PETE: Thanks, Mr. Eddy . whatiya need? Just the regular tune-up?
MR. EDDY: I want you to ride with me. Somethin' doesn't sound right.
PETE: Okay. Lemme clear it with.
MR. EDDY: It's okay with Arnie. Come on, let's EXT. ARNIE'S GARAGE - DAY Ed and Al don't notice that Pete is in the big black Mercedes, as it cruises past them.
MR. EDDY: Now listen. It only happens when I'm accelerating. I think it's the Mr. Eddy pulls out after a light turns green and gives the car a stab forward.
PETE: No, it's not the carburetors. Pull over, but keep it runnin'. Mr. Eddy smiles as he pulls over.
MR. EDDY: Best god damn ears in town. You guys are lookin' at him. The man with the best god damn ears in town. When the car stops, Pete gets out, pops the hood and disappears down by the engine. Mr. Eddy sits, smiling at Pete as he works. Pete pops up and gives Mr. Eddy the "thumbs up" and gets back into the car.
PETE: Give that a try.
MR. EDDY: All right! Mr. Eddy carefully pulls out into traffic and accelerates when he gets the chance.
PETE: Whatever you say, Mr. Eddy. Mr. Eddy hangs a right turn and heads up into the hills.
MR. EDDY: Oh, shit. Is that what I think it is? Pete turns and looks back. A car is TAILGATING them, the silver-gray Infiniti. The two assistants in the backseat turn nonchalantly to take a look - then they return their look to Mr. Eddy. Mr. Eddy starts to take a slow burn - keeps looking at the Infiniti in the rearview mirror. The assistants look to one another take a deep breath. Mr. Eddy slows slightly and then keeps the Pullman steady at 32 m.p.h. The Infiniti moves up ten feet behind the Pullman, and blows its horn. Mr. Eddy rolls down his window. The assistants are paying close attention - they buckle their Pete notices a tension in the car. He watches Mr. Eddy's Mr. Eddy pulls slightly to the right of the road, pastes a polite, courteous smile on his face, puts his left arm out the window and waves the Infiniti by. The Infiniti jets forward and swerves around the Pullman. When the cars are side by side, the irate DRIVER in the Infiniti gives Mr. Eddy "the bird" and flies past. CLOSE ON MR. EDDY'S RIGHT FOOT as it slams down on the gas The Pullman catapults forward toward the Infiniti. Pete is thrown back - he grabs on to the door handle and the seat for support. The Pullman gains on the Infiniti in a flash. The Infiniti tries to go faster, but Mr. Eddy's Pullman has much more This is where power and mechanical excellence pays off. Mr. Eddy jams the Pullman into the back of the Infiniti and pushes it faster and faster along Mulholland. The Driver of the Infiniti tries to brake and blue-gray smoke streams out from beneath the Infiniti with a scream of burning rubber. At a turn, Mr. Eddy steers his massive Mercedes and the Infiniti ahead on a gut-wrenching path off the road, up a mountain and into a little glade of trees. Dust and brush fly everywhere. Mr. Eddy and his assistants leap from the Pullman and make for the Driver's side of the Infiniti. Mr. Eddy throws open the Infiniti's door and pulls the trembling and screaming Driver out like a rag doll. Mr. Eddy pulls out his .44 Ruger Blackhawk and pistol whips the Driver to the ground. He smashes the butt of his gun across the man's face, tearing a gash which starts to gush with blood. Mr. Eddy's assistants each draw .45's and point them at the Mr. Eddy, red-faced with anger, leans close to the man.
MR. EDDY: ( clenched teeth ) This is where power and mechanical excellence pays off. Mr. Eddy jams the Pullman into the back of the Infiniti and pushes it faster and faster along Mulholland. The Driver of the Infiniti tries to brake and blue-gray smoke streams out from beneath the Infiniti with a scream of burning rubber. At a turn, Mr. Eddy steers his massive Mercedes and the Infiniti ahead on a gut-wrenching path off the road, up a mountain and into a little glade of trees. Dust and brush fly everywhere. Mr. Eddy and his assistants leap from the Pullman and make for the Driver's side of the Infiniti. Mr. Eddy throws open the Infiniti's door and pulls the trembling and screaming Driver out like a rag doll. Mr. Eddy pulls out his .44 Ruger Blackhawk and pistol whips the Driver to the ground. He smashes the butt of his gun across the man's face, tearing a gash which starts to gush with blood. Mr. Eddy's assistants each draw .45's and point them at the Mr. Eddy, red-faced with anger, leans close to the man.
MR. EDDY: DON'T YOU EVER FUCKIN' TAILGATE. Mr. Eddy hits the Driver in the side of the head with his WHAT DID YOU SAY? I. I didn't say anything.
DRIVER: ( scared shitless ) I. I didn't say anything.
ASSISTANT #1: Tell him you won't tailgate.
MR. EDDY: I won't ever tailgate.
EVER!!!!: I won't ever tailgate.
DRIVER: I won't ever tailgate.
MR. EDDY: DO YOU KNOW HOW MANY FUCKIN' CAR LENGTHS IT TAKES TO STOP A CAR AT 35 M.P.H.? SIX FUCKIN' CAR LENGTHS. THAT'S ABOUT A HUNDRED AND SIX FUCKIN' FEET, MISTER! YOU WERE FOLLOWING TEN FEET BEHIND ME. IF I'D HAD TO STOP SUDDENLY, YOU WOULD HAVE HIT ME. I WANT YOU TO GET A DRIVER'S MANUAL, AND I WANT YOU TO STUDY THAT MOTHERFUCKER. AND I WANT YOU TO OBEY THE GOD DAMN RULES. FIFTY FUCKIN' THOUSAND PEOPLE WERE KILLED ON THE ROAD LAST YEAR.
DRIVER: MR. EDDY SIX FUCKIN' CAR LENGTHS. THAT'S ABOUT A HUNDRED AND SIX FUCKIN' FEET, MISTER! YOU WERE FOLLOWING TEN FEET BEHIND ME. IF I'D HAD TO STOP SUDDENLY, YOU WOULD HAVE HIT ME. I WANT YOU TO GET A DRIVER'S MANUAL, AND I WANT YOU TO STUDY THAT MOTHERFUCKER. AND I WANT YOU TO OBEY THE GOD DAMN RULES. FIFTY FUCKIN' THOUSAND PEOPLE WERE KILLED ON THE ROAD LAST YEAR. ( hitting the driver once again - hard )
MR. EDDY: SIX FUCKIN' CAR LENGTHS. THAT'S ABOUT A HUNDRED AND SIX FUCKIN' FEET, MISTER! YOU WERE FOLLOWING TEN FEET BEHIND ME. IF I'D HAD TO STOP SUDDENLY, YOU WOULD HAVE HIT ME. I WANT YOU TO GET A DRIVER'S MANUAL, AND I WANT YOU TO STUDY THAT MOTHERFUCKER. AND I WANT YOU TO OBEY THE GOD DAMN RULES. FIFTY FUCKIN' THOUSAND PEOPLE WERE KILLED ON THE ROAD LAST YEAR.
DRIVER: I'll get a manual. and study it.
MR. EDDY: ( kicking the man )
MR. EDDY: Sorry about that, Pete, but tailgating is one thing I can't tolerate.
PETE: I can see that.
MR. EDDY: I'll bet you know how many car lengths it takes to stop at. say 45 m.p.h.
PETE: Eight, nine car lengths. A hundred and sixty-two feet.
MR. EDDY: At sixty?
PETE: Fifteen car lengths. About two hundred and seventy feet.
MR. EDDY: ( to his companions in the reariew ) What'd I tell ya. Mr. Eddy smiles and they continue along their way.
MR. EDDY: Wait a minute . Mr. Eddy takes out a couple of one hundred dollar bills and puts them into Pete's hand.
PETE: Thanks, Mr. Eddy.
MR. EDDY: No. Thank you!. I'll be bringin' the "Caddy" by tomorrow. Mr. Eddy reaches into the glove compartment and takes out a videotape. He holds it out to Pete.
PETE: MR. EDDY Yeah. Give ya a boner.
MR. EDDY: Yeah. Give ya a boner.
PETE: No thanks, Mr. Eddy. Mr. Eddy tosses the tape back in the glove compartment.
MR. EDDY: Suit yourself, champ.
PETE: Okay. Well, I'll see ya then.
MR. EDDY: You will.
ED: You recognize that guy?
AL: Yeah. Laurent.
PHIL: Why'd you change it? I liked that.
PETE: Well, I didn't. Pete rubs his throbbing head and when he gets back under the car, he lays on the skate - unable to work. A car horn honks and the sound reverberates inside the Pete looks up - from under the car he sees the wheels of a Cadillac roll up just outside the open garage doors. He sees a car door open and Mr. Eddy's feet appear and walk in his Pete winces and wheels himself out from under the car. He stands as Mr. Eddy walks up to him, then freezes as he sees - back behind Mr. Eddy, sitting in the passenger seat of the car - a beautiful blonde-haired GIRL, who looks exactly like CLOSE UP BEAUTIFUL GIRL - she looks exactly like Renee except she is about eight years younger. The girl is staring right into Pete's eyes. Mr. Eddy steps between Pete and the girl - blocking her from Pete. Mr. Eddy smiles at Pete - not noticing or not letting on that he notices the serious eye contact going on between Pete and the girl.
MR. EDDY: I'm leavin' the Caddy, like I told you. Think you'll get a chance to give her a once over today?
PETE: ( regaining his composure ) Sure. Sure, Mr. Eddy. You gonna pick it up later, or tomorrow?
MR. EDDY: If you think you can finish it, I'll be back later today.
PETE: It'll be ready.
MR. EDDY: You're my man, Pete. Mr Eddy pinches Pete's cheek - which Pete doesn't like, but aliows. Mr. Eddy gives Pete a big smile then turns, goes back to his car, escorts the beautiful girl outside where the Pullman is waiting. Pete watches her walk and move. He watches her until Mr. Eddy drives her away. She steals one last glance back at Pete before she disappears. When she is gone, Pete replays the scene of seeing this beautiful girl over again in his mind. The scene is accompanied by Lou Reed's version of "This Magic Moment".
SHEILA: What do you want?
PETE: Nothin'. You want to go for a drive?
SHEILA: I don't know.
PETE: Come on. get in. Sheila hesitates for a moment, then gets in.
PETE: Come here. Sheila slides across and sits close to Pete. Pete puts his arm around her. She takes a drag from his cigarette and puts her head on his shoulder. Pete pulls over into a dark shadow under a tree and stops the He cuts the engine, turns to Sheila and kisses her. She breaks away.
SHEILA: Why don't you like me?
PETE: I do like you, Sheila. Sheila puts her lips up' close to his and whispers.
SHEILA: How much? Pete kisses her and she kisses him back. They start to feel each other and Sheila takes off her tight sweater. She's wearing no bra and Pete begins to feel her breasts while she unbuttons his shirt. They continue to kiss hard throughout.
BEAUTIFUL BLONDE: ( ALICE ) Hi. I'm Alice Wyatt.
PETE: Pete Dayton.
ALICE: I was here yesterday.
PETE: Yeah, I remember.
ALICE: How would you like to take me to dinner?
PETE: ( laughs uncomfortably ) I don't know.
ALICE: Okay, then, I'll take you to dinner. Pete hesitates - thinks.
PETE: Look, I don't think it's a good idea. Alice looks hard at him, then smiles.
ALICE: Where's your phone? I have to call another taxi.
PETE: ( pointing ) Over there. Alice walks to the office inside the garage - picks up the phone and dials information.
ALICE: ( into phone ) Can you give me the number for United She turns and looks at Pete while she's speaking, then ( into phone ) Alice dials the number.
PETE: ( into phone ) We won't be needing a cab, thanks anyway. He hangs up the phone.
ALICE: Why don't we just skip dinner7
ED: 'Fucker gets more pussy than a toilet Al shakes his head with anger mixed with a lot of envy.
ALICE: ( whispers ) Take off my clothes.
ALICE: ( whispers ) I want more.
PETE: Me, too.
ALICE: Can I call you?
PETE: Yeah. Call me at home. I'll give you the number.
ALICE: ( kissing him ) Okay, baby.
ALICE: ( fear ) Is that car following us? Pete glances in the rearview mirror - sees the headlights. At the last moment he pulls a hard right and accelerates down the street. The car follows - they both see it.
PETE: I'll lose 'em at the light. Alice steals a look back.
ALICE: I don't recognize the car. At a tralfic light, Pete revs up the big Camaro and expertly peels out between on-coming cross traffic. He swerves between two cars going in opposite directions - blasts up a block and hangs a hard right - disappearing from view. Ed and Al go out into the traffic after them, but the swerving, screeching cars braking around them form a barrier and trap them. ANGRY DRIVERS lean on their horns. Pete and Alice have lost them.
PETE: ( voiceover ) I'll get it! Pete enters the kitchen where his mother goes for the ringing phone and gets to it before she does.
PETE: ( into phone ) ( phone voice ) It's me.
ALICE: ( phone voice ) It's me.
PETE: I can't see you tonight.
ALICE: I can't see you tonight.
PETE: ( disappointed ) Okay .
ALICE: I have to go somewhere with Mr. Eddy.
PETE: I think he suspects something. We have to be careful. I miss you. Pete is silent.
ALICE: I think he suspects something. We have to be careful. I miss you. Pete is silent.
PETE: Me, too.
ALICE: I'll call you again. Alice hangs up. Pete throws the phone back down on the cradle. It bounces off and he has to hang it up again. He slams it down.
CLAIRE: What's the matter?
PETE: CUT TO: EXT. DAYTON HOUSE - NIGHT Pete kick-starts his big Harley and roars angrily out of the CUT TO: EXT. STREETS - NIGHT Pete rides his cycle fast through neighborhoods.
"V": You okay, man?
PETE: You okay?. What's wrong7 Pete looks up at "V". He doesn't seem to recognize him - "V's" head is a featureless blur. Pete shakes his head trying to drive out the pain. He looks over again for Sheila. He sees her there dancing with her girlfriend.
"V": You okay?. What's wrong7 Pete looks up at "V". He doesn't seem to recognize him - "V's" head is a featureless blur. Pete shakes his head trying to drive out the pain. He looks over again for Sheila. He sees her there dancing with her girlfriend.
"V": Pete. You okay?
PETE: Pete stands back up against the post - turns to "V" - recognizing him.
"V": Sure, I'm okay. Some drunk GUYS move over to Sheila and her girlfriend. They cut in on the girls. The guy with Sheila puts his hand around her waist and pulls her against her will into a grind. She tries to push him away, but he holds on tighter - laughing with his buddy. "V" and Carl look at Pete as he pushes off the post. Pete crosses quickly to the man dancing with Sheila. He slams his fist into the man's nose - almost snapping the man's neck in the process. The man goes down bleeding. Pete attacks the other man who is turning toward him ready for a fight. He hits the man in the gut - the man's head goes down and Pete brings his knee up cracking the man's face. The man's torso flies up with Pete's knee - then continues on as the man falls to the floor. Pete picks him up, ready to hit him again, but the crowd pulls him off. Pete stands and turns - pulsating with anger. Sheila is there beside him.
SHEILA: Where'd you come from?
PETE: I've been here. You were lookin, right at me.
SHEILA: I was?
PETE: Sheila sinks into his arms.
SHEILA: I didn't know you cared.
PETE: Come on. Pete takes her to the Harley and they blast off.
SHEILA: ( whispered pain ) Pete. Pete. Pete keeps on - harder - obsessed. When he comes, he crashes down on Sheila, who wraps her arms around him tight. She doesn't know what is going on with him. Her eyes are open wide as she listens to his frantic breathing. She doesn't know what to say - or what questions to ask.
AL: What a fuckin' job.
ED: His or ours?
AL: Ours, Ed.
PETE: Sit down a minute.
BILL: Sit down a minute.
PETE: What's up?
BILL: Sit down. Pete sits in a chair opposite Bill and Claire.
PETE: I gotta headache. What's goin' on?
BILL: The police called us.
PETE: Yeah? what did they want?
BILL: They wanted to know if we'd had a chance to find out what happened to you the other night. They wanted to know if you remembered anything.
PETE: But I don't remember anything. What did you tell 'em?
CLAIRE: ( whispers ) We saw you that night, Pete.
BILL: You came home. Your friend Sheila brought you here.
PETE: Yes, there was a man with you. She brought you here. She didn't know what else to do.
BILL: Yes, there was a man with you. She brought you here. She didn't know what else to do.
PETE: What is this? Why didn't you tell me? What?. I don't remember any of this.
CLAIRE: We know that.
PETE: Who was the man?
BILL: Never saw him before in my life.
PETE: Did you tell the police this?
BILL: We're not saying anything about that night to the police. We should all forget that night.
PETE: What happened to me? Bill and Claire just stare at Pete.
BILL: FADE OUT: INT. DAYTON HOUSE - NIGHT The clock on the wall reads: 1:30 a.m. The house is completely quiet, except for the refrigerator motor. Pete is on the phone in the kitchen talking quietly.
PETE: Why didn't you tell me you brought me here that night? To my house. my parents told me. What are you tryin' to hide? Sheila. Tell me. Who was with me?. Who was the man?. .When you brought me home! What was he doin' there? What are you cryin' about?. Sheila?
MR. EDDY: How ya doin', Pete?
PETE: MR. EDDY I'm sure you noticed that girl that was with me the other day. Good lookin' blonde? She stayed in the car?. Pete just stares at Mr. Eddy. His heart begins to race.
MR. EDDY: I'm sure you noticed that girl that was with me the other day. Good lookin' blonde? She stayed in the car?. Pete just stares at Mr. Eddy. His heart begins to race.
PETE: ( very quietly ) I'd pull the trigger and shoot him right between the eyes. Abruptly, Mr. Eddy becomes cool - he holsters his pistol and smiles at Pete.
MR. EDDY: I'd pull the trigger and shoot him right between the eyes. Abruptly, Mr. Eddy becomes cool - he holsters his pistol and smiles at Pete.
PETE: ( voiceover ) I'll get it. Pete moves into the kitchen and picks up the phone.
PETE: Meet me at the Starlight Motel on Sycamore. I'll be there in twenty Alice hangs up. Pete stares at the phone for a moment, then hangs it up slowly.
ALICE: Meet me at the Starlight Motel on Sycamore. I'll be there in twenty Alice hangs up. Pete stares at the phone for a moment, then hangs it up slowly.
PETE: ( hesitates ) Alice hangs up. Pete stares at the phone for a moment, then hangs it up slowly.
ALICE: Up here. Come on. Pete takes a stairway past a "Coke" machine and meets Alice in front of a second floor room where the door stands open.
ALICE: He'll kill us.
PETE: Are you positive he knows?
ALICE: I'm not positive. but. he knows.
PETE: So what do we do?
ALICE: I don't know.
PETE: We should stop seeing each other.
ALICE: No. no. Alice moves closer to Pete and melts into him. She places his hand on her breast and looks in his eyes.
PETE: Have you partied with him?
ALICE: I used to. Inside, Pete goes crazy with jealousy.
PETE: You like it?
ALICE: No, honey. It was part of the deal.
PETE: What deal?
ALICE: He works for Mr. Eddy.
PETE: What's he do?
ALICE: He makes films for Mr. Eddy.
PETE: How'd you get in with these fuckin' Pete. Don't.
ALICE: How'd you get in with these fuckin' Pete. Don't.
PETE: How'd you get in with these fuckin' Pete. Don't.
ALICE: Pete. Don't.
PETE: How'd it happen, Alice?
ALICE: It was a long time ago. I met someone at this place called Moke's. we became friends. He told me about a job.
PETE: In pornos?
ALICE: No. A job. I didn't know what. He set up an appointment for me to see a ALICE'S STORY We see Alice wearing a sexy tight dress in a plain room. It feels like we are inside of a large building - maybe an office building. Alice is waiting nervously. A SLICKSTER in shiny shirt and pants is leaning against a closed door. There is another door off the room which is open onto a room where a MUSCLE MAN in tiny briefs is doing bench presses. No one is saying anything.
ALICE'S STORY: We see Alice wearing a sexy tight dress in a plain room. It feels like we are inside of a large building - maybe an office building. Alice is waiting nervously. A SLICKSTER in shiny shirt and pants is leaning against a closed door. There is another door off the room which is open onto a room where a MUSCLE MAN in tiny briefs is doing bench presses. No one is saying anything.
ALICE: ( voiceover ) I went to this place. They made me wait forever. There was some guy guardin' the door. I started gettin' nervous. In another room I could see some guy liftin'
PETE: Why didn't you just leave? Alice doesn't say anything. She drops her hand - looks down.
ALICE: If you want me to go away, I'll go away. The feelings shift inside Pete. Alice looks in his eyes.
PETE: I don't want you to go away. Alice smiles a little - leans in and they kiss.
ALICE: ( whispers ) I love you, Pete. They kiss some more.
PETE: ( desperate whisper ) I love you, Alice. They start to make love - undressing each other and kissing all the while. Alice stops.
ALICE: So, should I call Andy?
PETE: That's his name.Andy. Our ticket out of here.
ALICE: That's his name.Andy. Our ticket out of here.
PETE: Yeah. Call him. Alice gets serious.
ALICE: I'll set it up for tomorrow night. You'll meet me at his place at eleven o'clock. Don't drive there. Take a bus . Make sure no one follows you. His address is easy to remember. It's 2224 Deep Dell Place. It's a white stucco job on the south side of the street. I'll be upstairs with Andy. The back door will be open. That leads into the kitchen - go through the kitchen to the living room - there's a bar there. At eleven fifteen, I'll ask Andy to fix me a drink. When he does, you can crack him in the head. Okay?
PETE: Lemme call him now. Make sure he's not already busy tomorrow night.
ALICE: Lemme call him now. Make sure he's not already busy tomorrow night.
PETE: Still entwined with each other, Alice reaches for the phone and dials a number. It starts to ring and she smiles at Pete when she hears it being answered.
ALICE: Andy?. It's me, Alice. How ya doin?. Andy. I can get away tomorrow night. I could come to your house. That sounds good. Around nine. Yeah, me too, Andy. Great. See ya then. She hangs up the phone.
PETE: Why are ya goin' so early?
ALICE: 'Cause that's how long it's gonna take, What if Andy tips off Mr. Eddy?
PETE: What if Andy tips off Mr. Eddy?
ALICE: Are you kidding?. I've got so much on Andy, it isn't funny.
PETE: What about tonight?. Whatiya gonna do about Mr. Eddy tonight?
ALICE: I'm not goin' home tonight . I'm goin' somewhere else.. To a girlfriend's house. But, we still have a coupla things to take care of.
PETE: Oh, yeah?. What else? Alice reaches down between their legs. Pete smiles.
ALICE: This. and this. They start to go at it again - at first slowly and tenderly - then wildly. Alice tears herself away and looks up at Pete.
PETE: ( getting hotter ) Are you gonna be a man about this, Pete? Pete looks at her - starting to understand what she means.
ALICE: Are you gonna be a man about this, Pete? Pete looks at her - starting to understand what she means.
SHEILA: ( total horror )
PETE: ( frightened ) She heads toward him.
PETE: Sheila, what is it?. What are you doin' You've been fucking somebody else haven't You fuck me whenever you want. You don't call. Tell me who she is. Sheila has come up and is grabbing Pete by the front of his Hey. Sheila.
SHEILA: You've been fucking somebody else haven't You fuck me whenever you want. You don't call. Tell me who she is. Sheila has come up and is grabbing Pete by the front of his Hey. Sheila.
PETE: You fuck me whenever you want. You don't call. Tell me who she is. Sheila has come up and is grabbing Pete by the front of his Hey. Sheila.
SHEILA: You fuck me whenever you want. You don't call. Tell me who she is. Sheila has come up and is grabbing Pete by the front of his Hey. Sheila.
PETE: Hey. Sheila.
SHEILA: What's the BITCH'S name?!
PETE: Look Sheila. I'm sorry.
SHEILA: YOU'RE SORRY!! Go home, Sheila. Sheila starts beating him in the face and chest.
YOU'RE SORRY!!: Go home, Sheila. Sheila starts beating him in the face and chest.
PETE: Go home, Sheila. Sheila starts beating him in the face and chest.
SHEILA: YOU'RE SORRY!! YOU PIECE OF SHIT!! YOU'RE SORRY!! She starts crying and hitting him harder.
YOU'RE SORRY!!: She starts crying and hitting him harder.
FUCK YOU!!: Sheila's screaming is reverberating around the neighborhood. INSIDE PETE'S MIND the SOUNDS are even LOUDER. Bill comes out of the house. Claire is behind him waiting on the front porch. Sheila beats Pete and trips him to the ground. She is sobbing as she tears at him.
PETE: Sheila. Stop.
SHEILA: FUCK YOU!! FUCK YOU!! Bill comes up to Sheila and takes her gently by the Sheila jerks around and looks up at Bill.
BILL: Why don't you two come inside and talk things over quietly. Come on. Come on in, Sheila. Sheila gets to her feet - crying. She looks down at Pete, who remains lying on the front lawn. For Pete, every word and every sound is LOUD and DISTORTED. The DRONING SOUND returns.
SHEILA: ( to Pete ) You are different.
BILL: ( to Bill )
SHEILA: ( to Bill )
TELL HIM!: The phone inside the house starts to ring. Claire turns in the doorway and goes to answer it.
BILL: Sheila. Don't.
SHEILA: I don't care anyway. I'm sorry, Mr. Dayton. I won't bother you or any member of your family again. Sheila runs off crying. Pete and Bill watch her go. Claire comes to the door.
CLAIRE: Pete. There's a man on the phone. He's called a couple of times tonight. Pete pulls himself up.
PETE: Who is it?
CLAIRE: He won't give his name. Pete walks slowly inside - stares at the phone and picks it Hey, Pete. How ya doin'?
PETE: MR. EDDY ( phone voice ) Hey, Pete. How ya doin'?
MR. EDDY: ( phone voice ) Hey, Pete. How ya doin'?
PETE: Who is this?
MR. EDDY: You know who it is. Bill and Claire have stopped in the living room - watching Pete. Pete is going crazy with Mr. Eddy on one end, and his parents staring at him on the other. He waves his parents away, but they leave slowly and reluctantly.
PETE: Mr. Eddy?
MR. EDDY: Yeah. How ya doin', Pete?
PETE: MR. EDDY You're doin, okay? That's good, Pete.
MR. EDDY: You're doin, okay? That's good, Pete.
PETE: Look. It's late, Mr. Eddy. I .
MR. EDDY: I'm really glad you're doin' okay, Pete. Pete doesn't know what to say.
MR. EDDY: You sure you're doin' okay? Everything all right?
PETE: MR. EDDY That's good, Pete. Hey. I want you to talk to a friend of mine. Pete can hear the phone being handed over to someone. There is a long silence. Pete can hear breathing.
MR. EDDY: That's good, Pete. Hey. I want you to talk to a friend of mine. Pete can hear the phone being handed over to someone. There is a long silence. Pete can hear breathing.
VOICE: We've met before, haven't we? Pete freezes. His mind is scrambling.
PETE: I don't think so. Where was it that you think we've met?
VOICE: At your house. Don't you remember?
PETE: No. No, I don't.
VOICE: We just killed a couple of people.
PETE: Pete can hear Mr. Eddy laugh in the background.
VOICE: You heard me. We thought we'd come over and tell you about it. Pete is getting pale with fear.
PETE: What's goin' on?
VOICE: Great question!! In the east . the far east. when a person is sentenced to death. they're sent to a place where they can't escape. never knowing when an executioner will step up behind them and fire a bullet into the back of their head. it could be days. weeks. or even years after the death sentence has been pronounced. This uncertainty adds an exquisite element of torture to the situation, don't you think? It's been a pleasure talking to you. Pete can hear the phone being passed again.
MR. EDDY: Pete. I just wanted to jump on and tell you I'm really glad you're doin' okay. The phone goes dead and Pete sits - fearfully pondering his fate. He hears a NOISE and turns. Down at the far end of the hall he sees his parents staring at him. CLOSE UP ON PARENTS staring in the direction of the living room as if sensing something, but not seeing. PARENTS POV - The hall and living room beyond. There is no one there.
ALICE: You got him.
PETE: ( still holding the figurine ) Alice, I. Pete starts to tremble. He drops the figurine. He tries to embrace her. There is a crashing noise behind him. Pete turns and sees Andy staggering, blood streaming from the wound in his head, THEN CHARGING FULL SPEED AT PETE. Andy hits him hard, and Pete goes down. When Pete hits the ground, he pushes Andy up and throws out his arms. This, and Andy's momentum, catapult Andy into the corner of the rectangular glass-topped coffee table. There is a sound like a hammer going through a bucket of eggs as the glass corner embeds about eight inches into Andy's forehead. CLOSE UP OF ANDY'S HEAD - impaled on the sharp corner of the table, his chest area suspended, his legs and stomach touching the floor.
ALICE: ( amazement - no feeling ) Pete pulls himself off the floor. Pete moves close to Alice, they drift to the glass coffee table, staring for a few moments at Andy's dead body. While Pete stares, unbelieving, at Andy - Alice hurriedly picks up her sweater and puts it on. On the sofa next to it lay Andy's trousers. She goes through the pockets, finds a roll of cash bound by a rubber band. Alice hands the roll to Put this in your pocket. Alice kneels next to Andy's body and quickly removes his Rolex wristwatch, a couple of rings and the gold chain dangling from his neck. These items she puts inside the empty pillowcase. Alice finds the rest of her clothes scattered about the living room and puts them on. Pete watches her, trembling, unable to say anything. She comes back to Pete, who starts breathing irregularly, You all right?
PETE,: We killed him.
ALICE: You killed him.
PETE: Alice slides up close to Pete.
ALICE: It was an accident. Accidents happen every day. Pete clutches her, eyes squeezed tight, as if he is holding on for dear life.
PETE: ( pushing back ) We gotta get the stuff and get out of Alice starts off across the living room with the pillowcase. Pete opens his eyes, he sees Alice move as a blur. He looks around the room, which spins in and out of focus. His eyes land on, a PHOTOGRAPH in a frame on the wall. This photo troubles him. Pete squints, then points to the photograph.
ALICE: ( pushing back ) We gotta get the stuff and get out of Alice starts off across the living room with the pillowcase. Pete opens his eyes, he sees Alice move as a blur. He looks around the room, which spins in and out of focus. His eyes land on, a PHOTOGRAPH in a frame on the wall. This photo troubles him. Pete squints, then points to the photograph.
PETE: Is that you? Are both of them you? CLOSE UP OF THE PHOTOGRAPH - Four people appear in the frame: Andy, Renee, Alice and Mr. Eddy. Alice stops and comes back. She looks at the photo, walks closer to it, and points at herself.
ALICE: That's me. She turns to Pete. Pete is staring at the photograph - at Alice and Renee in the photograph. His nose is bleeding Pete starts to reel - blood from his nose soaking his shirt.
PETE: Where's the bathroom?
ALICE: Up the stairs - down the hall. Pete runs up the stairs - about to get sicker. Alice watches him go with a nuance of disdain.
ALICE: Don't you trust me, Pete?. She laughs and hands him the pistol.
PETE: Alice grabs Pete's arm and hurries him toward the door.
ALICE: Come on, baby.
ALICE: You drive. Alice jumps in Andy's car and tosses the bulging pillowcase in the back. Pete takes the revolver out of his belt. He opens the driver's side door of Andy's car and slowly sits inside. He sets the pistol on the seat between them. He looks up at her. She smiles wildly. Pete slalms the door - starts the car and they drive off.
ALICE: Come on. Pete starts the car and begins backing it out the drive. The Houseboy is still standing - watching them.
ALICE: We'll have to wait. The hot wind continues to blow. Alice and Pete walk back down to the car. The HEADLIGHTS are on and Alice reaches in through the window and switches on the RADIO. She can't get anything in but static, with bits and pieces of old tunes fading in and out. She hits the "seek" button. The radio starts to search. Pete is standing in the glare of the headlights watching her. Alice walks slowly to him. The camera captures this from a back seat perspective - then drifts toward them.
PETE: Why me, Alice? Why choose me? The radio sticks on a particular tune - a tune filled with longing. Alice begins to dance. She takes Pete's hand and pulls him close to her.
ALICE: So we can be together. You still want to be with me, don't you Pete? Alice gives Pete that wild smile.
PETE: I want you. I want you. With a burning smile, Alice rolls them out of the beams of light into the darkness. The wind billows a black cloud of dust around them. Alice pulls away from Pete and brings her dark mouth to his You'll never have me. Alice glides away from Pete and stands up looking down at him from above. She turns and walks, naked, to the cabin where she disappears within it. Pete turns, face down on the ground in the darkness. He's holding his head and shaking. As he starts to stand - he turns into the glare of the headlights and we see that it is NOT PETE - BUT FRED. As Fred stands up, the car's LIGHTS DIM and the RADIO FADES. Fred looks at the car. He sees some movement inside. Fred looks closer and sees the figure of a man in the back seat. CLOSE UP OF THE MAN - it's the Mystery Man from Andy's party.
ALICE: You'll never have me. Alice glides away from Pete and stands up looking down at him from above. She turns and walks, naked, to the cabin where she disappears within it. Pete turns, face down on the ground in the darkness. He's holding his head and shaking. As he starts to stand - he turns into the glare of the headlights and we see that it is NOT PETE - BUT FRED. As Fred stands up, the car's LIGHTS DIM and the RADIO FADES. Fred looks at the car. He sees some movement inside. Fred looks closer and sees the figure of a man in the back seat. CLOSE UP OF THE MAN - it's the Mystery Man from Andy's party.
FRED: Fred turns toward the cabin and sees the Mystery Man now standing in the doorway. Fred turns again to the car, but this time it's empty. He looks back at the cabin and sees the Mystery Man still in the Fred is dizzy with fear and confusion. He pulls on his trousers and shoes and walks up the steps to the cabin toward the Mystery Man, who goes inside. Fred stops in the doorway. He looks around.
MYSTERY MAN: Here I am. Fred is dizzy with fear and confusion. He pulls on his trousers and shoes and walks up the steps to the cabin toward the Mystery Man, who goes inside. Fred stops in the doorway. He looks around.
FRED: Where's Alice?
MYSTERY MAN: Alice who? Fred looks around again but there is no one there except the Mystery Man - standing in the center of the room. Fred stares at him.
MYSTERY MAN: ( CON'T ) Her name is Renee. If she's told you her name is Alice, she's lying. ( filled now with anger )
NAME?!: Fred freaks, scared to death. He bolts down the stairs to the car, stumbling more than once. Fred attempts to start the car which is drained of electrical charge by the use of the headlights and radio. The Mystery Man appears in the doorway of the cabin. He starts toward Fred. The starter motor moans as Fred twists the key frantically. The smiling Mystery Man is almost at the car, The engine catches. Fred revs it - throws the car in reverse and peels out away from the Mystery Man, whose hand is reaching for him. Fred swerves the car around - throws it in drive, and takes off across the dark desert.
CLERK: You just got in before the big storm Fred pulls the roll of bills from his pocket.
FRED: I need a room.
ED: Hey, Al, look at this. Al walks over to where Ed is looking at the photo on the wall. Al looks at it.
AL: It's her, all right. Fred Madison's wife . with Dick Laurent and Mr. Dent- head over there. CLOSE UP ON THE PHOTOGRAPH - that shows RENEE AS THE ONLY WOMAN IN THE PICTURE, standing between Andy and Mr. Eddy/ We've got Pete Dayton's prints all over this place.
AL: We've got Pete Dayton's prints all over this place.
ED: You know what I think?
AL: What's that, Ed?
ED: There's no such thing as a bad INT. LOST HIGHWAY HOTEL - ROOM 26 - PRE-DAWN Renee is sitting half dressed on the edge of the bed, pulling on her stockings. Mr. Eddy/Laurent is asleep next to her. Renee stands up, finishes dressing, then leans down and kisses her lover while he sleeps. Renee leaves the room, closing the door as quietly as possible behind her. As the door CLICKS, Mr. Eddy/Laurent wakes up. He sits up and gets a pack of cigarettes from the bedside table, shakes one out, lights it with a book of "Lost Highway Hotel" matches, and smokes it while seated on the edge of the bed.
FRED: ( pointing the gun at him ) You're coming with me. Fred puts the pistol up against Mr. Eddy/Laurent's head and marches him out of the room - past the camera's eye. The camera stays in the room and moves slowly toward the window, through which we see Fred and Mr. Eddy/Laurent appear down below in the back lot. Still watching out the window, the camera sees Fred knock Mr. Eddy/Laurent over the head with the gun butt and put him into the trunk of a car. Fred slams the trunk lid and climbs into the driver's side of what is obviously Mr. Eddy/Laurent's car - the Mercedes 600 Pullman. As Fred drives away, a HAND appears in our window foreground. The hand moves the window curtain further to one side. The camera pulls back to reveal it as the hand of the Mystery Man. The Mystery Man leans fully into the frame and watches Fred drive off down the Lost Highway as day breaks.
MYSTERY MAN: ( on TV screen ) Now you can hand it back to me. Mr. Eddy/Laurent sees the Mystery Man's image reach out a Mr. Eddy/Laurent looks up. The Mystery Man has his arm outstretched just as it was on the video image. Mr. Eddy/ Laurent hands the Watchman back, and locks eyes with the Mystery Man.
FRED: ( into intercom ) Dick Laurent is dead.
THE END: Writers : David Lynch Barry Gifford
