BY: GINA PRINCE-BYTHEWOOD
OPENING TITLES: SLOW MOTION. STYLIZED. TIGHT. The silhouette of a man and woman. They are on a blacktop basketball court, playing a sexually-charged game of one-one- Sweat glistens. Hands pull at clothes. Hips bump and collide. Eyes lock.
BALDWIN HILLS: EXT. MCCALL HOUSE - LATE MORNING An upper middle-class neighborhood, known as the Black Beverly Hills. Big houses, green grass and Caddies in every other driveway. The street is quiet, until
JAMAL: Shoot, I'll be blocking your stuff.
KELVIN: I'm gonna be like Dr. J.
QUINCY: I'ma be like my Dad.
JAMAL: He ain't a star or nothing.
QUINCY: I don't see none of your sorry daddies in the NBA.
KELVIN: Hey, look, Q. Quincy follows Kelvin's eyes, to a beat-up pair of Converse All-Stars approaching from next door. Walking in the kicks is a YOUNG KID in a T-shirt and Tuff-skins, and a LAKERS cap pulled low. A moving van is parked in the driveway. Thought only girls were moving in.
QUINCY: That's what my Moms said.
KELVIN: I hope he can ball.
JAMAL: Bet he's a scrub. The Kid stops at the edge of Quincy's driveway.
KID: Can I play?
QUINCY: Can I play?
KID: Can I play?
QUINCY: You nice?
KID: Yeah, I'm nice. Quincy looks the Kid up and down, then
QUINCY: You and Kelvin gainst me and Jamal. Quincy tosses the Kid the ball. The Kid pulls off the baseball cap. Brown hair tumbles down, framing a soft brown face and bright eyes. She is MONICA WRIGHT, eleven years Ah man, he is a girl.
JAMAL: Ah man, he is a girl.
QUINCY: Girls can't play no ball.
MONICA: Ball better than you. Quincy laughs derisively as Monica walks to the top of the What a dog. Monica shoots him a glare.
QUINCY: ( whispering ) What a dog. Monica shoots him a glare.
JAMAL: She heard you.
QUINCY: Nuh uh, they could only hear dog Monica starts to dribble. Jamal whistles as he walks backwards, guarding her. She throws up a shot. IT'S AN AIRBALL. Quincy and Jamal crack up. Kelvin rolls his eyes. Quincy grabs the rebound and shoots. Swish. One, zip. He rolls the ball to Monica. She starts dribbling and again, Jamal just backs up with her. She passes to Kelvin. Jamal and Quincy collapse on him, leaving Monica open under the basket. Trapped Kelvin has no choice but to pass it back. Monica catches the ball and throws up a shot. It banks off the backboard.AND DROPS THROUGH THE NET. The boys look at her in shock. Monica tosses the ball back to Quincy.
MONICA: One, up.
QUINCY: Quincy easily dribbles by Kelvin and lays up the ball. He throws the ball back to Monica. Monica dribbles. Jamal plays her a little tighter. Monica bounces the ball through his open legs and lays up the ball.
MONICA: Two, up. Quincy can't believe it. Kelvin cracks up.
KELVIN: Aaah, she dogged you.
JAMAL: Shut up. The game continues, with Quincy and Monica trading baskets for their teams. Quincy grows agitated with Jamal, who is unable to stop her. The score hits nine, nine. Quincy stands at the top of the driveway, ball in hand.
QUINCY: Quincy dribbles through his legs, then pops an outside shot. The ball bounces on the rim.and rolls off. Quincy curses as Monica grabs the rebound and clears the ball. Jamal moves to guard her, but Quincy shoves him off. Quincy defends. Monica smiles back at him.
MONICA: Told you I was nice. I'm going to be the first girl in the NBA.
QUINCY: I'ma be in the NBA. You're gonna be my Monica suddenly passes to Kelvin, sprints for the basket. Quincy stumbles, giving her a step. Kelvin throws it back. Quincy knows he's beat as Monica goes for the winning lay-up. In desperation, he swings at her for the hard foul, shoving her off balance.
NATHAN: How are you feeling, munchkin? Monica nods. He smiles. Yeah, you're through.
CAMILLE: She needs to stop running around like a little boy.
NATHAN: She's alright.
CAMILLE: How is she alright looking the way she Camille, she'll be fine. He gives Monica a wink, crosses away. Monica pulls the washcloth away from her Mom and starts wiping the blood I'll get some ice. She exits. Lena shakes her head, follows. Monica pulls the washcloth from her face and stares into the mirror. TORN SKIN SURROUNDS A SMALL DEEP GASH IN HER CHEEK. Seeing her latest battle scar, there's only one thing left for this little girl to do. She smiles.
NATHAN: Camille, she'll be fine. He gives Monica a wink, crosses away. Monica pulls the washcloth away from her Mom and starts wiping the blood I'll get some ice. She exits. Lena shakes her head, follows. Monica pulls the washcloth from her face and stares into the mirror. TORN SKIN SURROUNDS A SMALL DEEP GASH IN HER CHEEK. Seeing her latest battle scar, there's only one thing left for this little girl to do. She smiles.
CAMILLE: I'll get some ice. She exits. Lena shakes her head, follows. Monica pulls the washcloth from her face and stares into the mirror. TORN SKIN SURROUNDS A SMALL DEEP GASH IN HER CHEEK. Seeing her latest battle scar, there's only one thing left for this little girl to do. She smiles.
ZEKE: Girl, who you trying to fool? Quincy looks up, smiles. He quickly grabs a piece of crumpled paper, and tosses it to Zeke.
QUINCY: Alley-oop, Dad. Nona intercepts his pass.
NONA: She points him back to his card. Quincy scowls, starts writing again. Nona scoops some frosting on her finger, holds it up. Zeke wraps his lips around her finger, sucks the frosting Nona laughs, pulls him down for a kiss. Quincy suddenly throws down his pencil in frustration.
ZEKE: See, Quincy, this is how your Moms caught me, with the old fake and bake. Had me thinking I was getting a sister who could Nona laughs, pulls him down for a kiss. Quincy suddenly throws down his pencil in frustration.
QUINCY: I can't do this shit. Zeke and Nona pull away, stare at Quincy in shock.
ZEKE: Boy, what'd I tell you about using that "Can't" should never be in a man's Why not?
QUINCY: ( sighs, then ) "Can't" should never be in a man's Why not?
ZEKE: Why not?
QUINCY: Cause when you say can't, you ain't a That's right.
ZEKE: That's right.
NONA: ( then ) Oh, and, uh, don't say "shit." Nona just shakes her head.
ZEKE: ( then ) Oh, and, uh, don't say "shit." Nona just shakes her head.
NONA: We should head over.
ZEKE: Just you and Quincy, baby. I got a With who?
NONA: With who?
ZEKE: Business folks.
NONA: You just got back from a four game road Nona, don't start bitching. I got maybe two years left to play. I'm just trying to put some things together for us. Zeke grabs his keys. Later, Quincy.
ZEKE: Nona, don't start bitching. I got maybe two years left to play. I'm just trying to put some things together for us. Zeke grabs his keys. Later, Quincy.
QUINCY: Later, Dad. Zeke exits. Nona leans against the counter, concerned. We still have to go?
NONA: We still have to go?
QUINCY: We still have to go?
NONA: ( beat ) INT. WRIGHT HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY Camille and Nona stand among the piles of boxes. Monica and Quincy stand at their mothers' sides, stealing glances at each other. A large bandage covers Monica's cheek. Monica holds her card, Camille holds the cake.
NONA: .we moved back here when Quincy was about five, after Zeke was traded. Neighborhood was a little more mixed back then.
CAMILLE: Until the Black family down the street became the Black family next door.
NONA: ( nods ) Camille tries to smooth down Monica's unruly hair. Monica moves her head.
CAMILLE: Well, thanks again. This was really nice of you.
NONA: It was the least we could do. And I love to cook. Quincy looks up at his Mom, surprised. She quickly hugs his face into her stomach. Camille lights up.
CAMILLE: Oh, me too. I used to cook for my friends' parties and things back in You're a caterer?
NONA: You're a caterer?
CAMILLE: Well, no, but once Nathan gets settled and the girls get a little older, it's definitely something I want to do. Since you love to cook, maybe it's something we can talk about. Quincy snickers. Nona quickly changes the subject.
NONA: You know, girl, long as I've lived next door, I've never seen the inside of this Really? Well, come on, then. Camille hands Monica the cake. Honey, put this in the kitchen.
CAMILLE: Really? Well, come on, then. Camille hands Monica the cake. Honey, put this in the kitchen.
NONA: Help her, Quincy. Camille and Nona head down the hall, leaving Monica and Quincy alone. The two just stand there. Quincy reaches out, scoops a finger of frosting, and pops it in his mouth. Beat, then Monica takes a bigger scoop.
QUINCY: So.does it hurt?
MONICA: It's this big hole. You could almost see For real?
QUINCY: For real?
MONICA: Uh huh. Quincy is impressed.
QUINCY: So how come you could play basketball?
MONICA: I just can.
QUINCY: I never knew a girl that could play.
MONICA: My Mom says she doesn't know where I come from 'cause I act different.
QUINCY: Your Dad play?
MONICA: He works at a bank.
QUINCY: My Dad plays for the "Clippers." He says I'ma be a doctor or a lawyer, but I'ma play for them, too. Same number and I'm going to be number thirty-two, like He's alright, but my Dad can take him.
MONICA: I'm going to be number thirty-two, like He's alright, but my Dad can take him.
QUINCY: He's alright, but my Dad can take him.
MONICA: What was the most points your Daddy ever got in Junior High?
QUINCY: I don't know. A lot.
MONICA: One time Magic scored forty-eight points, and they only had six minute quarters and he sat out the whole fourth.
QUINCY: You do act different.
MONICA: I don't care.
QUINCY: Well, if anybody bothers you, you could just tell me cause I run this street.
MONICA: I'd just tell my sister, Lena.
QUINCY: She don't know how to box, I bet. My dad showed me how to fight like Ali. He shows off a flurry of punches.
MONICA: So, I know karate from "Almighty Isis." Monica puts the cake down on a box, does a couple of kicks and hand movements. Quincy is impressed.
QUINCY: Bet you can't do this though. Quincy does a jump kick. Monica does the same. Okay, how bout this? Quincy takes a couple steps back, then does a cartwheel. It looks great, until he crashes into the box with the cake. The cake falls onto his head and shoulder. Monica doubles over, laughing. Quincy is embarrassed. Camille and Nona rush back into the living room.
CAMILLE: Monica, what did you do?
MONICA: ( to Nona ) Oh, all that work.
CAMILLE: ( to Nona ) Oh, all that work.
NONA: It's.it's okay. Can I get a towel? Camille quickly crosses into the kitchen. Quincy stares at the floor.
QUINCY: Nona bends down, whispers in his ear.
NONA: No. Good boy.
MONICA: Lena keeps tugging. Monica punches her in the leg.
LENA: Lena yanks Monica's head back as Camille enters, carrying a yellow dress on a hanger. Monica sees it and her face falls.
MONICA: Ah, Mom.
CAMILLE: I'm lucky I found it. Someone put your box of dresses under a pile of rags in the garbage. Monica sulks. Lena cackles in her ear. Camille has to Child, pick up your lip.
MONICA: I hate it.
CAMILLE: Fine, you don't like this one, which one would you rather wear?
MONICA: Camille rubs her temples, then hangs the dress on the door.
CAMILLE: ( to Lena ) When you're done can you make sure she brushes her teeth?
LENA: Are you okay?
CAMILLE: I just need to lay down. I've been running around all day. Just then, Nathan enters. He holds up two dress shirts as if it were a matter of life and death.
NATHAN: Which one for tomorrow?
CAMILLE: The blue.
NATHAN: You sure? Camille nods. Nathan looks at both of them, then: Can you iron both tonight just in case?
CAMILLE: ( beat ) Thanks, sweetheart. He kisses her on the cheek, hands her the two shirts and crosses out. Monica just watches. Beat, then Camile turns back to her daughters.
NATHAN: Thanks, sweetheart. He kisses her on the cheek, hands her the two shirts and crosses out. Monica just watches. Beat, then Camile turns back to her daughters.
CAMILLE: The boy next door is riding with you to school so you'll know somebody your first Hurry so she can go to sleep. Monica reacts, surprised. Camille leaves. Lena puts the comb back to Monica's hair. Beat, then:
MONICA: Make it look nice, kay.
QUINCY: You wanna be my girl? Monica blinks in surprise. She thinks for a moment.
MONICA: What do I have to do?
QUINCY: I guess, you know, we play ball and we ride to school together. And if you get mad at me, I gotta give you flowers.
MONICA: I don't like flowers.
QUINCY: How bout Twinkies? My mom won't ever buy them.
MONICA: How bout Twinkies? My mom won't ever buy them.
QUINCY: An awkward beat between the new couple. Finally
MONICA: An awkward beat between the new couple. Finally
QUINCY: I think we gotta kiss now.
MONICA: For how long?
QUINCY: Five seconds. The two glance around, then climb off their bikes and walk to the secluded area between their two houses. Monica nods. They lean in, eyes wide open, and touch lips. Quincy counts to five with his fingers. They pull away, embarrassed, and walk back to the driveway. Monica lifts her bike from the ground and climbs on. Wait. Cause you're my girl now you gotta ride my bike.
MONICA: I want to ride my own bike.
QUINCY: My Dad always drives my Mom.
MONICA: ( impatient ) So that means I have to ride with you. Monica doesn't move. Come on.
QUINCY: ( impatient ) So that means I have to ride with you. Monica doesn't move. Come on.
MONICA: I don't have to do what you say.
QUINCY: Man, forget you then, stupid.
MONICA: You're stupid. And your Daddy plays for the worst team in the NBA. Quincy's face instantly clouds.
QUINCY: ( laughs ) Last time they won, Dr. J. was a nurse.
MONICA: ( laughs ) Last time they won, Dr. J. was a nurse.
QUINCY: Shut up! He shoves her, knocking her off her bike. I don't wanna be your boyfriend, you ugly Monica leaps up, her dress now dirty. She shoves him back.
MONICA: I don't want to be your girlfriend, big They grapple, then fall to the ground swinging.
CHEERLEADERS: "U", "G", "L", "Y", you ain't got no alibi, you ugly, yeah, yeah, you ugly. "M", "A", "M", "A", how you think you got that way, your Mama, yeah, yeah, your On the floor, MONICA, dribbles down court. Just EIGHTEEN, her athletic figure has a few curves, but her loose jersey does little to show it off. Her hair is a mess and her knees are dark with bruises. A small scar is visible on her cheek. She whips a no-look, around the back pass to a cutting TEAMMATE under the basket, who scores. The crowd cheers. Monica defends the opposing point guard like a gnat. She knocks the ball loose and grabs it up. She goes for a lay-up and the opposing guard steps in front of her. Monica crashes into her, knocking both to the floor.
REFEREE: No basket! Offensive foul, number thirty- Monica leaps up.
MONICA: What? She wasn't set! The referee ignores her. She was still moving! From the sideline, COACH HISERMAN waves frantically.
COACH HISERMAN: Monica! Let it go! Monica stares down the ref as she jogs back on defense. The opposing guard drives the lane and puts up a shot. Monica leaps and blocks it with a taunting scream. A
REFEREE: Technical foul! Number thirty-two. Coach Hiserman slams down his clipboard. Monica charges the referee. A teammate grabs at her but she pushes her off.
MONICA: For what?
REFEREE: COACH HISERMAN Man, you suck! The referee whips back around, whistle in mouth. Coach Hiserman grabs her arm and pulls her off the court.
MONICA: COACH HISERMAN Man, you suck! The referee whips back around, whistle in mouth. Coach Hiserman grabs her arm and pulls her off the court.
COACH HISERMAN: Man, you suck! The referee whips back around, whistle in mouth. Coach Hiserman grabs her arm and pulls her off the court.
MONICA: Man, you suck! The referee whips back around, whistle in mouth. Coach Hiserman grabs her arm and pulls her off the court.
COACH HISERMAN: Sit down and shut up. Monica slams down in a chair, sweat pouring, hands clenched. Her mom watches from the stands, completely embarrassed. The brother in the doorway turns, leaves. Monica looks up at the clock. SIX MINUTES LEFT IN THE THIRD
CAMILLE: .and if you want a thicker base, you can cut in a potato or just use a little But you use potato? Camille nods as they cross into:
LENA: But you use potato? Camille nods as they cross into:
MONICA: Dad, you have to talk to Coach for me.
NATHAN: And what am I supposed to say to the man?
MONICA: The coach from Tennessee was there and he has me riding the bench.
NATHAN: You lost your head.
MONICA: I was just showing emotion.
CAMILLE: So that means it's alright for you to act like that?
LENA: ( to Monica ) What'd you do?
MONICA: ( dismissive ) I don't know why I keep hoping you'll grow out of this tomboy thing.
CAMILLE: I don't know why I keep hoping you'll grow out of this tomboy thing.
MONICA: I won't. I'm a lesbian. Lena chokes on her drink, cracks up.
CAMILLE: That's not funny
MONICA: Well, that's what you think, isn't it? Cause I'd rather wear a jersey than an Watch your mouth. Nathan quickly jumps in, tries to clean things up.
CAMILLE: Watch your mouth. Nathan quickly jumps in, tries to clean things up.
NATHAN: Monica, I think her point is.maybe it's time to start thinking about other things besides basketball.
MONICA: ( taken aback ) You only have one game left and you haven't been recruited. Munchkin, I wanted it as bad as you did, but we have to face reality.
NATHAN: You only have one game left and you haven't been recruited. Munchkin, I wanted it as bad as you did, but we have to face reality.
MONICA: The coach from USC is going to be at the I know. But chances are.
NATHAN: I know. But chances are.
MONICA: Chances are there's still a chance. Nathan nods. She can always soften her dad, but not her mom.
CAMILLE: If you'd just listen for once, you'd realize you have a lot more going for yourself. You're smart, you'd be pretty if you put a comb to your head. I mean, why walk around with your hair looking like "whodunit".? As her mom nags on, Monica looks out the window. OUTSIDE, QUINCY and a GIRL lean against a car parked at the curb, slobbing each other down. Just shy of 18, with a magnetic face and muscular body, he is a brother who drank his chocolate milk. HE IS ALSO THE
QUINCY: Yo, Felicia, I gotta get to my game. She keeps kissing him. And my mom's about to be home.
FELICIA: So I'm not good enough to meet your mom?
QUINCY: Girl, she knew I had a hottie like you up inhere, she'd beat the black off me.
FELICIA: ( kissing him again ) That's a lot of beating. She finally lets go, and slides into her car. Quincy watches her go with a cocky-ass smile.
SHAWNEE: Hey, girl.
MONICA: Your hair looks so cute like that. Monica knows she's full of shit, doesn't respond. So.you know who Q's asking to the Spring Dance?
SHAWNEE: Your hair looks so cute like that. Monica knows she's full of shit, doesn't respond. So.you know who Q's asking to the Spring Dance?
MONICA: C'mon, girl, you live next door. Who's been creeping?
SHAWNEE: C'mon, girl, you live next door. Who's been creeping?
MONICA: There's so many I just can't keep track.
SHAWNEE: Well, can you give him this for me? Shawnee holds out a folded note. Monica doesn't take it.
MONICA: Give it yourself.
SHAWNEE: I don't wanna look fast. Thanks, girl. She slides back to her seat. Monica shakes her head, turns back to the game. Quincy dives for a loose ball. Shawnee clutches her friend. Good Lord, look at that ass. I just want to lick the sweat off it. Monica takes in his tight body. He does look good. Quincy jogs back down court and flashbulbs go off.
JIM: Quincy, word has it you might make the jump the NBA.
ZEKE: Don't go starting rumors, Jim. My son's college bound with or without basketball.
JIM: You could make a career by telling me Gotta wait til the press conference.
ZEKE: Gotta wait til the press conference.
JIM: But you'd love for him to play at USC, like you did.
ZEKE: I'd love for him to get a good education. That's it. Jim crosses away. Zeke puts an affectionate arm around his son as they walk toward the locker room. We should have another talk with Coach Carril at Princeton.
QUINCY: Pop, there's no way an Ivy League Team is going all the way.
ZEKE: I don't care about the team. I care about the school.
QUINCY: Didn't we already have this conversation? Zeke sighs, then:
ZEKE: You played good. I was proud of you. Quincy smiles wide.
QUINCY: ( then ) So you up for a game later?
ZEKE: I don't wanna hurt your feelings.
QUINCY: You don't wanna hurt your back.
ZEKE: ( smiles ) Anyway, I gotta get to this meeting. Tell your Mom I'm gonna be late.
QUINCY: You work too hard, Pop.
ZEKE: Let's hope I can say the same about you one day. Quincy watches his dad move toward the doors, stopping once to give an autograph. Zeke passes Monica, entering.
MONICA: Hey, Mr. M.
ZEKE: Hey, Miss Baller. He exits. Monica approaches Quincy.
MONICA: Way to hoop.
QUINCY: I know this. What do you want?
MONICA: A ride home.
QUINCY: Your legs don't look broke.
MONICA: Look, big head, I'll be at your car.
QUINCY: Guess "please" would be a stretch.
MONICA: ( dryly ) INT. QUINCY'S JEEP - NIGHT Silence as Quincy wheels his Jeep Wrangler toward home. Monica sits in the passenger seat, basketball in lap. She pulls Shawnee's note from her pocket. Quincy glances it What's that?
QUINCY: What's that?
MONICA: Some note Shawnee Easton told me to give to you.
QUINCY: ( thinks ) Big-ass titties? Monica shoots him a disgusted look. Quincy reaches out. Give it here. Monica leans away, reads aloud.
MONICA: "Q. I think you are so fine and I've been wanting to get with you. Let me take you to the Spring Dance and I promise I'll leave you satisfied." Monica laughs in disbelief. What a ho.
QUINCY: Why she gotta be a ho, just cause she wants to get with me.
MONICA: She's a ho cause she's sending her coochie through the mail.
QUINCY: And? She's not saying, "I think you're a nice guy and I wanna get to know you better," she's saying, "I wanna bone."
MONICA: And? She's not saying, "I think you're a nice guy and I wanna get to know you better," she's saying, "I wanna bone."
QUINCY: So she's honest.
MONICA: Yeah, an honest tramp-ass ho. But I guess you'll stick your dick in anything.
QUINCY: Didn't know you cared so much.
MONICA: I don't.
QUINCY: So who you going to the dance with, Who's Spalding? Quincy looks down at the SPALDING BASKETBALL in her lap and cracks up. Monica glares. Fuck you, Quincy.
MONICA: Who's Spalding? Quincy looks down at the SPALDING BASKETBALL in her lap and cracks up. Monica glares. Fuck you, Quincy.
QUINCY: See, that's why you ain't getting Who said I'm not getting recruited?
MONICA: Who said I'm not getting recruited?
QUINCY: Your hot-ass temper. Monica points to the scar on her cheek.
MONICA: I'm not the one who put this scar here.
QUINCY: God, here we go.
MONICA: When we were eleven years old cause he was about to lose. Quincy turns, faces her.
QUINCY: That's it, give it your best shot.
MONICA: Would you watch the damn road?
QUINCY: I mean it, give it your best shot, cause I'm tired of you holding that over my I'm warning you, don't tempt me.
MONICA: I'm warning you, don't tempt me.
QUINCY: I'm warning you. You don't stall that bad attitude, no one's gonna recruit you. Quincy pulls his Jeep into his driveway.
MONICA: Please, you jump in some guy's face, talk smack and you get a pat on your ass. But because I'm a female, I get told to calm down and act like a "lady". I'm a ballplayer, okay. A ball player.
QUINCY: With a jacked-up attitude.
MONICA: Didn't know you cared so much.
QUINCY: I don't.
MONICA: Monica slams out of the Jeep and walks across the lawn to her house. Quincy exits his ride.
QUINCY: What's up, Moms. Nona holds up a large hoop earring.
NONA: What is this?
QUINCY: Uh, your earring?
NONA: I look like some hoochie to you? I found it on your floor.
QUINCY: What are you doing in my room? Quincy crosses into:
NONA: Quincy, I told you about these fat-ass We were just studying.
QUINCY: We were just studying.
NONA: I'm not playing with you, these girls are looking to get you caught. They see you, they see dollar signs.
QUINCY: You hearing me?
NONA: You hearing me?
QUINCY: I've been hearing you. Nona eyes her son, then lets up. She gives him a kiss.
NONA: How was your game?
QUINCY: Twenty-seven points, eleven assists and still undefeated.
NONA: Still the man.
QUINCY: Nona smiles, starts back the kitchen.
NONA: Where's your dad?
QUINCY: Said he'd be home later.
NONA: Later when?
QUINCY: I don't know, he had a meeting or Quincy exits to his room.
ZEKE: I had some players to see and hands to At one in the morning?
NONA: At one in the morning?
ZEKE: I'm not gonna get anywhere punching a clock just so my wife doesn't get an I came second to the NBA. I'm not about to come second to this bullshit scouting Zeke looks at her, offended. I didn't mean it like that.
NONA: I came second to the NBA. I'm not about to come second to this bullshit scouting Zeke looks at her, offended. I didn't mean it like that.
ZEKE: I'm just saying it'd be nice if you found time for your family. You should see the tramps coming after Quincy. If you don't talk to him.
NONA: I'm just saying it'd be nice if you found time for your family. You should see the tramps coming after Quincy. If you don't talk to him.
ZEKE: I have. A beat.
NONA: You said you'd think about going back to get your degree.
ZEKE: No, you said I should get my degree. I like my "bullshit" job, okay, and it's gonna lead to a spot in the front office. Til then, don't worry, there's just enough savings to keep your ass in Gucci and gold. Livid, Nona pulls off her gold bracelet, throws it at him.
NONA: Fine, then how many nights home is that?
ZEKE: Keep your voice down. She grabs a pair of gold earrings from her jewelry box, nails How about now? I got a week yet?
NONA: How about now? I got a week yet?
LENA: That too tight?
MONICA: Mom's going to hate it.
LENA: Mom's going to hate it.
MONICA: Always on my ass, anyway.
LENA: Like you don't give her a hard time.
MONICA: Just cause I don't kiss her booty like Lena yanks Monica's head back. You need to. She's alone in this house all day, taking care of Dad and your ungrateful behind.
LENA: You need to. She's alone in this house all day, taking care of Dad and your ungrateful behind.
MONICA: No one's forcing her.
LENA: Just try and chill a little bit, alright. Monica doesn't answer. Lena yanks her head back again.
MONICA: Ow!!! Okay! They crack up.
LENA: So what's going on with the Spring Dance? You have a date yet?
MONICA: ( sarcastically ) Yeah, brothers are lined up at my locker.
LENA: I found you someone.
MONICA: Found? I'm not some charity case.
LENA: I know.
MONICA: Mom tell you to do this?
LENA: Damn, Lena. Who is he?
MONICA: Damn, Lena. Who is he?
LENA: This brother from my college.
MONICA: He's in college?
LENA: And he's fine, girl.
MONICA: How'd you get him to say yes?
LENA: I told him you looked like me.
MONICA: Oh, great.
LENA: You do.
MONICA: Yeah, right.
LENA: If you were tore up I would not be claiming you. Trust. Monica is not convinced. We'll do something cute with your hair, get you a dress, get you some heels.
MONICA: I don't know how to walk in heels.
LENA: Hey. You just worry about playing your behind off for that recruiter tonight. Let me worry about your date. Lena starts to braid Monica's hair again. Beat, then.
MONICA: You ever been in love?
LENA: Too many times.
MONICA: They ever love you back?
LENA: Yeah, once I cut them off. Why? Monica just shrugs. Lena continues braiding.
CAMILLE: Monica, please. Monica stops.
MONICA: ( then ) I'm leaving. Camille fills a spoon from the pot, holds it out.
CAMILLE: Taste this.
MONICA: I can't eat before a game.
CAMILLE: Child, take a bite. Monica sighs, takes a bite. It's good. I found some apricot chutney and mixed it with the yams.
MONICA: You really should be a caterer or something like you used to say.
CAMILLE: Sure. In between all the other things I have to do. She pulls off Monica's hood, then stops when she sees her braids. Monica looks back defiantly.
MONICA: Nothing. So good luck. She forces a smile, turns back to her cooking. Monica just nods, and crosses out.
CAMILLE: Nothing. So good luck. She forces a smile, turns back to her cooking. Monica just nods, and crosses out.
COACH HISERMAN: I don't have to tell you girls how big this game is. We worked too damn hard all season to leave without this championship. So let's play smart. .let's play in control, and let's kick some butt. Cougars on three. As Monica moves to center court, she glances up at the USC Coach, then at Quincy. Monica takes a deep breath as she lines up for the opening tip. An opposing player suddenly bumps her out of position. Monica glares at her, but just moves over. The ball is tossed up.
TEAM: As Monica moves to center court, she glances up at the USC Coach, then at Quincy. Monica takes a deep breath as she lines up for the opening tip. An opposing player suddenly bumps her out of position. Monica glares at her, but just moves over. The ball is tossed up.
REFEREE: Reaching in, number thirty-two. One-and- Boos fill the gym. Monica's eyes widen.
MONICA: Anger rushes through her as she starts for the ref.
COACH HISERMAN: Monica catches herself, turns the word "shit" into a frustrated yell as she quickly moves away from the ref. Monica lines up for the free-throw, clenching her fists. The girl hits the first one. Then, she hits the second. With ten seconds left, down by one, Monica drives down court and throws up a prayer. EVERYONE IS ON THEIR FEET AS THE BALL SPINS AROUND THE RIM. AND THEN.IT POPS OUT. An opposing player grabs the rebound and Monica has no choice but to foul her. Monica has just fouled out. She walks to her bench and drops down. She buries her face in a towel and sobs. The buzzer goes off. Cougars lose. Quincy stares at Monica, feeling almost as bad as she does.
LENA: Might help if you didn't look so evil.
MONICA: I don't even want to go. She steps back, looks at her work.
LENA: Beat, then Camille enters.
CAMILLE: Go in my top drawer and get my pearls. Lena exits. Monica still looks miserable. You okay? Monica shrugs. Well, can you promise me one thing?
MONICA: Tonight, don't worry about yesterday's game, the recruiters, or anything else. I just want you to enjoy being beautiful. Will you do that? Monica takes this in as Lena returns with Camille's pearls.
CAMILLE: Tonight, don't worry about yesterday's game, the recruiters, or anything else. I just want you to enjoy being beautiful. Will you do that? Monica takes this in as Lena returns with Camille's pearls.
LENA: Camille puts them around Monica's neck. Monica looks back at Camille smiles at her daughter, nods. Monica touches the INT. CRENSHAW GYM - NIGHT An R&B song jams through the speakers, filling the dance floor with high school kids in suits and dresses. In the middle of the floor, Quincy gets his groove on with his date, Shawnee. She dances so provocatively, there is no mistaking what she has in mind for later. Over at the doors, Monica enters with her college date, JASON, 21, and fine. Heads turn in surprise. Monica feels the stares, shifts nervously.
MONICA: You really think I look beautiful? Camille smiles at her daughter, nods. Monica touches the INT. CRENSHAW GYM - NIGHT An R&B song jams through the speakers, filling the dance floor with high school kids in suits and dresses. In the middle of the floor, Quincy gets his groove on with his date, Shawnee. She dances so provocatively, there is no mistaking what she has in mind for later. Over at the doors, Monica enters with her college date, JASON, 21, and fine. Heads turn in surprise. Monica feels the stares, shifts nervously.
JASON: Can I take your coat?
MONICA: You're cold? Monica starts to pull it off.
JASON: No, I mean I can check it for you.
MONICA: ( embarrassed ) Oh, sorry. Jason pulls off her coat, revealing a dress that shows off everything Monica has been hiding. He checks out her frame, Your sister wasn't lying. He crosses to the coat check, leaving her alone.
JASON: Your sister wasn't lying. He crosses to the coat check, leaving her alone.
ANGLE ON: Quincy, who glances over from the middle of the dance floor, and abruptly stops. He stares at Monica in shock.
QUINCY: Quincy starts off the floor as a new song kicks in.
SHAWNEE: Q, I like this song.
ANGLE ON: Monica, sees Quincy approaching in his suit. She quickly steadies herself on her heels, brushes a curl from her face.
QUINCY: See you made it.
MONICA: You don't look half-bad.
QUINCY: You don't look half-bad.
MONICA: You either. Jason returns. Quincy looks at him, surprised.
JASON: What's up, Black. I'm Jason.
QUINCY: Shawnee suddenly steps up, slides her arms around Quincy.
SHAWNEE: Dang, girl, I didn't know Nike made Monica looks at Shawnee, wrapped around Quincy. She can't believe it.
MONICA: Guess we'll see you later. Monica heads into the crowd with her college man. Quincy watches her go.
JASON: So, you like school? Monica smiles nervously, nods. Yeah, high school was cool. I don't remember sisters being as fine as you, Monica just holds that nervous smile. So what do you like studying?
MONICA: He waits for more, but nothing comes.
JASON: I'm an English major. You like English?
MONICA: Sort of.
JASON: That was two words. Monica ducks her head, embarrassed. Jason laughs. Girl, how come you're so stressed?
MONICA: That was two words. Monica ducks her head, embarrassed. Jason laughs. Girl, how come you're so stressed?
JASON: That was two words. Monica ducks her head, embarrassed. Jason laughs. Girl, how come you're so stressed?
MONICA: I mean, I'm having a good time with His arm slides off the back of her chair and onto her So tell me what I have to do to make you have a good time with me.
JASON: I mean, I'm having a good time with His arm slides off the back of her chair and onto her So tell me what I have to do to make you have a good time with me.
MONICA: My mouth is kinda dry.
JASON: Then I'll get you some punch. He stands, then. Just don't jet while I'm gone and leave a glass slipper behind. Monica's face lights up. Jason smiles. There we go. He crosses away to the refreshment table. Monica smiles wider, leans back in her chair with her legs splayed. She catches herself and quickly crosses them. A couple of guys pass by and check her out. Monica smiles wider. Quincy steps up, holding two cups of punch.
QUINCY: You having fun?
MONICA: You having fun?
QUINCY: You having fun?
MONICA: Yeah, the DJ's kinda whack, though. So who is this clown?
QUINCY: Yeah, the DJ's kinda whack, though. So who is this clown?
MONICA: He ain't Spalding.
QUINCY: Guess not.
MONICA: So you took Shawnee, huh? The DJ puts on "Make It Last Forever" by Keith Sweat. Couples move to the dance floor.
QUINCY: ( embarrassed ) You know, it was late and she asked.
JASON: You want to dance? Jason stands behind her chair. Monica smiles shyly.
MONICA: Jason puts down her cup of punch, takes her hand, leads her to the dance floor. Quincy just shakes his head, then crosses to his table, grabs Shawnee's hand.
QUINCY: He pulls Shawnee to the middle of the floor.
ANGLE ON: Monica, nervous at first, a little awkward, but Jason gently guides her in a slow circle and she starts to relax. Jason moves his hands down Monica's back, pulling her in closer. Shawnee snuggles into Quincy's chest, runs her hands down his neck. The heat from bodies grows. Monica and Quincy glance up at the same time and catch each other's eyes. They start to look away but find they can't. Eyes locked as they dance, they move together, almost feel each other. Finally, as their bodies turn, they lose sight. Monica puts her head to Jason's chest, Quincy slides his hands lower down Shawnee's back. The music continues.
MONICA: ( rattling ) Freshman year, my free throw percentage was fifty-one percent, cause I was shooting it like a jump shot. Jason leans in, kisses her bare shoulder. Um.but then sophomore year I was shooting seventy-five percent from the Jason kisses her neck. .uh, by keeping my feet set and really following through. Jason goes in for the slam dunk. Kisses Monica on the lips. It's the first time she's really been kissed. Jason pulls away, smiles.
JASON: That was nice.
MONICA: Your sister told me hands off, but I can't help myself. Jason leans in. Monica closes her eyes, and they kiss some more. Monica tries to follow his practiced lips. Jason's tongue slides in and their bodies slide down. His hand moves across her breast. Monica's eyes pop open.
JASON: Your sister told me hands off, but I can't help myself. Jason leans in. Monica closes her eyes, and they kiss some more. Monica tries to follow his practiced lips. Jason's tongue slides in and their bodies slide down. His hand moves across her breast. Monica's eyes pop open.
MONICA: Shh. It's okay. Naive and inexperienced, Monica shuts her eyes tight.
JASON: Shh. It's okay. Naive and inexperienced, Monica shuts her eyes tight.
MONICA: Quincy looks over. Beat. Then he climbs out of his window, drops down.
MONICA: Early night for you, isn't it?
QUINCY: I was about to ask you the same thing, going out with a college boy and all. Monica doesn't respond. So where'd you go after?
MONICA: ( beat ) Mulholland Drive.
QUINCY: So what dead-end street did you and Shawnee hit?
MONICA: So what dead-end street did you and Shawnee hit?
QUINCY: None of your business.
MONICA: Well, I'm sure she kept her word and left you satisfied.
QUINCY: That what you think? Monica shrugs. Little after you left, I told Shawnee it was time to go and I drove her ass straight home. And after she told me I was the dumbest brother in the world, I took off.
MONICA: Cause I don't just stick my dick in Monica takes this in.
QUINCY: Cause I don't just stick my dick in Monica takes this in.
MONICA: I was sitting in Jason's ride with him kissing on me and feeling on me and it was really bugging me cause I couldn't remember how many offensive boards I had in the championship. And then I guess she got tired of me sort of accidentally kneeing him in the balls. Beat, then Quincy cracks up. Monica laughs with him.
QUINCY: You had four offensive rebounds. Monica stares at him, surprised. She thinks.
MONICA: You had four offensive rebounds. Monica stares at him, surprised. She thinks.
QUINCY: You had four offensive rebounds. Monica stares at him, surprised. She thinks.
MONICA: Hold up for a second. Monica disappears back inside. Beat, then she re-appears. She climbs out her window, drops down. Quincy looks at her. She holds out the envelope from USC.
QUINCY: When'd you get this?
MONICA: It was on my bed when I came in. Can you just.?
QUINCY: ( beat ) You sure? Monica nods. Quincy takes the envelope, sits down on the grass. Monica sits down beside him. He tears open the envelope and pulls out the letter. Monica stares at him as he reads, trying to see an answer in his face. Quincy finally looks up. Expressionless. Damn girl. Monica's face falls. And then, a slow smile spreads across Quincy's face. They want you. Monica grabs the letter, reads. Her head just drops as a tidal wave of relief washes over her. Quincy smiles. Monica looks up, cheesing. I'm gonna be there, too. I'm announcing I knew it. Monica can't contain her excitement. Without thinking, she gives Quincy a kiss. They pull away, then break into nervous What was that about?
MONICA: I knew it. Monica can't contain her excitement. Without thinking, she gives Quincy a kiss. They pull away, then break into nervous What was that about?
QUINCY: What was that about?
MONICA: I know, right? But they both want more. They lean in, kiss deeply. They fall back on the grass. And kiss. And kiss. Suddenly, Monica pulls away, sits up. Quincy follows, instantly apologetic. Monica stares at him, then to his surprise, she reaches over, gives his shirt a small tug with her finger. Quincy stares at her, then slowly pulls off his tie. He nervously unbuttons his shirt. He fumbles with the last two Monica slowly pulls down the straps of her dress, self- conscious. Quincy can't keep his eyes off her. He pulls off his pants. Monica glances down and her eyes widen. She looks scared to death. Quincy smiles softly, leans in and gently kisses her. She relaxes. They lay down. Quincy reaches into his pants for a condom. His hands shake as he puts it on. They stare at each other as he moves on top of her. Quincy pushes inside her. She flinches back in pain. Quincy immediately stops as tears spring to her eyes.
QUINCY: ( softly ) You want to stop? Monica shakes her head. Quincy pushes inside again. He looks down at her with tenderness, moves gently, kisses her FADE IN: FOOTAGE. 1988-89 NBA Finals. Game SEVEN. The Lakers against the Pistons. With seconds left, up by three, Magic guards Isiah Thomas. They collide, no foul is called and the Lakers win their second championship.
COACH MILLER: I don't know some of you very well yet, and you don't know me because I'm still being nice to you. Laughter from the upperclassmen. But my philosophy is simple. Hard work and sacrifice. There's a lot of basketball history and pride here at USC, but just putting on the cardinal and gold doesn't make you a great player. Hard work and sacrifice makes you a great player. What you were doesn't matter anymore. For the first time in your life, you won't be the best. You'll be going up against women that are bigger and stronger and better than you ever imagined. So the question is, how will you respond? Well, your answer better be hard work and sacrifice because that's the only way you're gonna make it through. Vince Lombardi preached it and I teach it, "There is only one way to succeed at anything and that is to give Coach Miller pauses a moment to let her words sink in. Monica glances at her fellow freshman for their reactions. Like her, a lot of cockiness, a lot of fear. A few simple rules. Eleven o'clock curfew, no exceptions. Always be on time, no exceptions. Attend every class, no exceptions. No drugs, no alcohol, no getting pregnant. And finally, respect yourselves, respect your coaches and respect your teammates, right Sidra? SIDRA, senior point guard, nods from the second row.
SIDRA: That's right, Coach.
COACH MILLER: By the end of this year some of you will hate me. The upperclassmen crack up. Some of you will want to go home.
UPPERCLASSMEN: ( cat-calling ) CREE, junior forward, ducks her head sheepishly. Coach Miller smiles.
COACH MILLER: But I guarantee you, if you work hard and sacrifice, all of you will be better basketball players and better people. Monica nods, accepting the challenge.
COACH MILLER: Let's go, freshmen, you're getting Monica sucks it up, runs faster. She reaches the middle of the pack, then runs out of gas. She drops back to the rear. Monica, I'm putting you on my Wizard of Oz team. No brains, no courage and no INT. CAMPUS GYM - MORNING Defensive drills. One by one, players crouch low and move backwards down the sideline. ZVETTE, a junior guard, hustles through the drill.
COACH MILLER: Way to work, Zvette. Monica starts the drill. Get lower, Monica, move your feet. Monica grimaces as she squats lower. I said lower! Coach Miller stops her, squats down low beside her. This is low, got it? Offense sells tickets, defense wins games! Monica starts again.
SIDRA: Dag, you took her out, T. Teammates SANDRA and LISA crack up.
SANDRA: I think she just said "Mommy."
LISA: No, she said "mammary."
COACH MILLER: Monica, you trying to tell me you can't take a little challenge? Monica crawls to her feet.
MONICA: I can take it.
COACH MILLER: This time get your feet set. Monica moves back into position. Toni drives at her again. Monica steps in front of her, braces herself. Toni slams into her and she hits the floor. Monica blinks back the pain as she pops back up. Monica wobbles back to the sideline.
SIDRA: You got it, c'mon, lift! Monica lifts it with Sidra's help. That's it.
MONICA: Coach hates me, doesn't she?
SIDRA: She hates all freshmen. Monica scowls, discouraged.
MONICA: What's up with that?
SIDRA: Hey, don't take it personal. And don't think just cause we play the same position we have to compete with each other. We're teammates, okay?
MONICA: Thanks, Sidra.
SIDRA: Besides. I've been starting point the last two years. Ain't no way some dumb- ass freshman is taking my spot. Sidra walks off, leaving Monica with the bar on her chest. Finally, she has to drop the weight to the floor.
MONICA: You finish the reading for E-con?
QUINCY: What'd it say?
MONICA: What'd it say?
QUINCY: Basically broke down how I'm gonna make mad loot in the NBA, me being such a limited commodity and all.
MONICA: Whatever, big head. Quincy laughs. TWO GIRLS pass by, smile.
GIRL #1: Hey, Q-man, you gonna take us to the Final Four?
QUINCY: We'll see.
GIRL #2: We'll be watching. The girls continue on. Monica looks at Quincy.
QUINCY: You do see me standing here, right?
MONICA: You do see me standing here, right?
QUINCY: I can't be nice to a fan?
MONICA: Fine, Quincy.
QUINCY: I can't help girls coming up to me.
MONICA: I said fine. Quincy looks at her sulking. He suddenly pulls her down onto the nearby lawn, and cradles her.
QUINCY: It's okay, little baby.
MONICA: ( struggling ) Quincy grips her tighter, rocks her. Students pass by, Shhh. Daddy's here. Monica finally cracks up.
QUINCY: Shhh. Daddy's here. Monica finally cracks up.
MONICA: You're such a punk. He gives her a kiss.
QUINCY: All these girls.you're the only one I know who's for real. Monica smiles, kisses him back.
MONICA: INT. CAMPUS GYM - MORNING A heated scrimmage between the women's "A" team ( the starting five ) and "B" team ( five who want to be starting ). Monica runs point for the "B" team, playing opposite Sidra. Sidra is all over Monica, slipping in cheap shots, but Monica starts to come on. She does a quick cross-over and loses Sidra. She dishes off to Shayla, who scores.
COACH MILLER: Sidra! You feel like playing any "D"? Sidra scowls as she runs down court. She gets a pass in the corner, tires to make a move but Monica slaps the ball loose. Monica grabs it, drives to the three-point line, puts up the shot. SWISH! Monica stays posed, with her arm up. Sidra takes advantage, sprints back down court. She get the long pass, lays it up. Coach Miller blows her whistle. Monica! Get over here. Monica jogs over, sheepish. While you're so busy posing, your man just scored! Monica drops her head. Show me again.
MONICA: COACH MILLER You love to pose so much, let's see it Beat, then Monica holds up her arm like she just shot the ball. Snickers from her teammates. COACH MILLER ( cont'd ) I want you to stand like that for the rest of practice.
COACH MILLER: You love to pose so much, let's see it Beat, then Monica holds up her arm like she just shot the ball. Snickers from her teammates. I want you to stand like that for the rest of practice.
MONICA: COACH MILLER I want you to stand like that until you're sick of it because I don't ever want to see it again, you hear me? ( then ) Dora, take her spot. DORA, freshman, jogs onto the court. Coach Miller blows her whistle and the scrimmage resumes. Monica stands alone on the sideline, posing, and feeling like an asshole.
COACH MILLER: I want you to stand like that until you're sick of it because I don't ever want to see it again, you hear me? Dora, take her spot. DORA, freshman, jogs onto the court. Coach Miller blows her whistle and the scrimmage resumes. Monica stands alone on the sideline, posing, and feeling like an asshole.
LISA: Z, I know you're gonna shower first.
ZVETTE: I don't smell bad.
SANDRA: And you wonder why your ass sits alone on the bus. Cree glances over from another sink, as she snaps the chain on her CROSS NECKLACE.
CREE: You guys curse too much.
SANDRA: Since when is "ass" a curse? MAEYEN walks past.
MAEYEN: Whoa, it's as big as yours. They crack up. Cree just shakes her head. Two TEAMMATES pass by Monica with their arms raised, mimicking her pose. Monica shakes her head. Sidra glances at Monica from her spot on the bench.
SIDRA: That's what you get for trying to show out, freshman.
MONICA: I was just playing ball.
SIDRA: You were trying to make me look bad.
MONICA: Didn't have to try very hard. Ears prick up around the locker room. Sidra stands.
SIDRA: Girl, don't you know you're just sloppy Monica rises.
MONICA: Toni tries to step in.
TONI: Sidra, let it go.
SIDRA: Only reason you're here is cause Tonya Randall got pregnant and decided not to come. They were done recruiting. KELLI, senior forward, shakes her head.
KELLI: That's cold, Sid.
SIDRA: Just thought the girl should know. Monica is stunned. Sidra saunters to the showers. Shayla nudges her with her shoulder.
SHAYLA: Don't even trip. She's just mad cause she's bow-legged.
QUINCY: Forget Tonya Randall.
MONICA: I'm telling you, Coach wishes she was here instead of me.
QUINCY: Then prove her wrong.
MONICA: I don't have it easy like you, alright. There's no red carpet laid out for me.
QUINCY: So you're gonna act salty all night? Quincy's roommate/teammate REGGIE, 18, suddenly pops his head into the room.
REGGIE: Yo, dog, we're about to order some wings.
QUINCY: Nah, thanks. Reggie shrugs, closes the door. Quincy looks at Monica, still brooding. Fine. Don't worry about proving everybody wrong, okay? You can't handle the pressure, I'll understand.
MONICA: That was so weak.
QUINCY: Who cares if you're never known as the first girl in the NBA. You'll get more play behind Quincy McCall's woman anyway. Monica shoves Quincy's ice bag down his sweat pants. He leaps up. Aaaah! Damn, girl!
MONICA: That's what you get. He smiles as he pulls the ice. Then looks her up and down.
QUINCY: So how about a little one-on-one?
MONICA: What are we playing for?
QUINCY: Quincy locks the door, sets up his indoor hoop.
MONICA: Quincy locks the door, sets up his indoor hoop.
QUINCY: I score, you strip. You score, I drop Monica looks at him, then cracks up.
MONICA: Give me the ball.
QUINCY: My court, I go first. Quincy grips the ball. Monica crouches low on defense. Quincy drives past her and slams down a vicious dunk. Monica makes a face, then pulls off her sweatshirt. Quincy skips back. Monica drops low again. Quincy fakes her out and slams down another vicious dunk. He laughs. Where's the "D"?
MONICA: Kiss my booty.
QUINCY: Plan to. Monica glares through her smile, then pulls off her T-shirt, leaving her in a bra and shorts. Quincy goes for another dunk, but this time, Monica reaches out, GRABS HIS DICK. Quincy drops the ball. Monica picks it up and lays it in. Hold up.
MONICA: All's fair in love and basketball. Quincy pulls off his shirt. Monica moves back into position. Quincy drops down low. Monica fakes, gets him to leave his feet. She slips under him and scores. She laughs. Too bad you got your mama's height, huh. Quincy pulls off his sweats, leaving him in just drawers. Monica takes in the view as she moves back into position. She holds the ball out, taunting. Quincy pretends to reach for it, but grabs her breast instead.
QUINCY: Oh, my bad. She drives. Quincy just steps out of the way and lets her score. Monica snatches the ball off the floor.
MONICA: Yo, where's the "D"?
QUINCY: Right here. Monica turns, finds Quincy butt-naked. He moves her against the wall and kisses her. Monica drops the ball, wraps her arms around him. She smiles.
MONICA: I won.
QUINCY: I wanted you to. Game over. They hit it.
DICK VITALE: It's the start of the new college season and I'm like a kid in a candy store. Too many great teams to choose from. You have your Dukes', Kentuckys', Arkansas', but my surprise treat this season.
ROBIN ROBERTS: .USC. The women of Troy made it to the Sweet Sixteen last year and are returning four starters from that squad. And many consider their recruiting class one of the best in the nation. The highlight of that class,.
DICK VITALE: .is Quincy McCall, one of my diaper dandies. He's a real P.T.P., a prime- time player. Every college in the country wanted him but he chose to follow in his father's footsteps and become a Trojan. He's gonna have a lot on his shoulders this season.
ROBIN ROBERTS: .but Coach Cheryl Miller feels that if just one of her freshmen has a breakout year, they can go all the way. It's a long season, anything can happen, but one thing is for sure.
DICK VITALE: It's gonna be awesome, baby!
QUINCY: .up and under between two defenders, with the left hand. That's gotta make Zeke just nods as the Bartender/Owner crosses over. He is an ex-ballplayer named TERRY. They can't stop me, Pop.
TERRY: What are you having, Zeke?
ZEKE: Genuine Draft. And an orange juice for my kid.
TERRY: Cross-over's looking good, Quincy. I know your old man didn't teach you that.
ZEKE: Didn't need a cross-over to post you up. Terry laughs as he moves off to fix the drinks. Something is on Zeke's mind, but before he can speak on it.
QUINCY: You know, the numbers I'm putting up are better than any freshman. Some people are saying I'm a definite lottery pick. Zeke suddenly focuses.
ZEKE: What people?
QUINCY: You know, people.
ZEKE: Well, tell them to mind their damn business. You're smart enough to get a I'm also good enough to go pro.
QUINCY: I'm also good enough to go pro.
ZEKE: You know how much higher the play level is in the NBA? Give yourself time to develop, Quincy. Get an education. The NBA ain't going nowhere.
QUINCY: You came out early.
ZEKE: Your mom got pregnant and I had to make choices. You don't have a choice.
QUINCY: Silence, then.
ZEKE: Besides, the sooner you go pro, the sooner you'll have to deal with the mess I'm dealing with.
QUINCY: What mess?
ZEKE: there's this thing out there. This paternity suit.
QUINCY: Some girl that's been hanging on at every party. now I'm supposed to be her baby's Anyway, I told your mom I wanted to be the one who told you.
ZEKE: Some girl that's been hanging on at every party. now I'm supposed to be her baby's Anyway, I told your mom I wanted to be the one who told you.
QUINCY: Tell me what?
ZEKE: I just told you.
QUINCY: I mean, it's not true, is it? Zeke stares at his son.
ZEKE: You got the balls to ask me that? Quincy can't hold his father's look. Zeke shakes his head, No, you need to hear me say it, I'll say it. It's not true. Quincy looks in his father's eyes, knows he's telling the So what are you gonna do?
QUINCY: No, you need to hear me say it, I'll say it. It's not true. Quincy looks in his father's eyes, knows he's telling the So what are you gonna do?
ZEKE: No, you need to hear me say it, I'll say it. It's not true. Quincy looks in his father's eyes, knows he's telling the So what are you gonna do?
QUINCY: So what are you gonna do?
ZEKE: I want this thing to go to court, but my lawyer's telling me to settle.
QUINCY: A case like this could hang around for months and I'm up for this player relations job with the "Clips." This gets out, false or not, no one'll touch What's Mom think?
ZEKE: A case like this could hang around for months and I'm up for this player relations job with the "Clips." This gets out, false or not, no one'll touch What's Mom think?
QUINCY: What's Mom think?
ZEKE: We haven't exactly been living the fairy- tale life the past few years. Something like this happens, it either brings a family closer or pushes them further apart. We'll just have to see how it plays out. I'm giving her some space, couple Just then, a COLLEGE STUDENT approaches.
COLLEGE STUDENT: Yo, Q-man, great game.
QUINCY: The student holds out a piece of paper, without even a glance to Zeke.
COLLEGE STUDENT: Can I get an autograph? Quincy nods, signs the guy's paper. Zeke watches his son, the rising star.
NONA: You scared me.
QUINCY: Sorry. You okay?
NONA: I'm fine. Quincy glances at her half-hidden glass.
QUINCY: Last time I remember you drinking was when Marvin Gaye died. No response from Nona. This about Dad?
NONA: Guess he talked to you.
QUINCY: Don't sweat it, okay. Sooner or later the truth'll come out.
NONA: ( beat ) Whose truth are you talking about?
QUINCY: Mom, we can't let something like this mess up the family. She doesn't respond. Quincy studies her. I mean, you believe him, right? Nona sits silent, humiliated. Just.leave it alone.
NONA: Just.leave it alone.
QUINCY: This is just about money, you know that.
NONA: Quincy, please.
QUINCY: I mean, how many times have you told me yourself to watch out for these ho's?
NONA: Guess I should have been telling your So you're gonna take the word of some trick over Pop's? He wouldn't lie. Nona grabs an envelope beside her and throws it at him. Confused, Quincy opens it. HE PULLS OUT A COUPLE OF PHOTOS: Zeke outside a party. IN ONE PHOTO, his arm is around a young woman. IN ANOTHER PHOTO, they KISS. AND YET ANOTHER, they climb into his car. What.what's this?
QUINCY: So you're gonna take the word of some trick over Pop's? He wouldn't lie. Nona grabs an envelope beside her and throws it at him. Confused, Quincy opens it. HE PULLS OUT A COUPLE OF PHOTOS: Zeke outside a party. IN ONE PHOTO, his arm is around a young woman. IN ANOTHER PHOTO, they KISS. AND YET ANOTHER, they climb into his car. What.what's this?
NONA: I hired somebody. How pathetic is that? After all his late nights and "meetings" and I still needed proof. Quincy just stares at the photos. I used to think I was lucky just to be married to Zeke McCall, but I'm too Quincy looks stricken, but he moves to Nona, comforts her as she cries.
QUINCY: Don't put your hands in your pockets, hold your head up, always look a man in the eye, and all the time I'm hanging on his every word like he's God or I know he messed up, but that doesn't change what he's been to you.
MONICA: I know he messed up, but that doesn't change what he's been to you.
QUINCY: What has he been to me? I mean, he looked me in my face and lied like it was nothing. Like it was easy. And I'm standing there getting loud on my mom like she's the one with no sense.
MONICA: She understands.
QUINCY: He even had me wanting to play for the "Clippers." Man, how stupid am I.
MONICA: You're not stupid.
QUINCY: I know a lot of brothers dog their wives, I just never thought my pops would do some shit like this. Monica puts her arms around him. They sit there, quiet. Monica glances up at the clock tower. She reacts. Quincy Why don't we walk to my dorm?
MONICA: ( beat ) Why don't we walk to my dorm?
QUINCY: I'm not up for running into anybody. Let's just kick it here, alright?
MONICA: Why not?
QUINCY: Why not?
MONICA: Coach has us on eleven o'clock curfew. If I'm late, I don't suit up. Quincy looks at her, almost in shock.
QUINCY: Didn't realize you were watching the I mean, I can stay a few more minutes.
MONICA: I mean, I can stay a few more minutes.
QUINCY: Nah. Don't sweat it.
MONICA: For real. I should be alone, anyway. Monica reluctantly stands.
QUINCY: For real. I should be alone, anyway. Monica reluctantly stands.
MONICA: Will you call me when you get in? Quincy nods. Monica gives him a kiss. Then she turns and crosses away.
MONICA: I shouldn't have left.
SHAYLA: Go to sleep.
MONICA: You should have seen him, Shay.
SHAYLA: Mon, Sidra's out for one game, and you got the start. But you get caught breaking curfew and Coach is gonna send your ass back to the bench. You'll see your man tomorrow. Shayla's warning slowly sinks in. Finally, Monica lays down.
ANNOUNCER: And now the starting line-up for your Women of Troy! At center, a senior, Toni Toni rises, jogs through the line of teammates to the court. At forward, a senior, Lisa Mason! Lisa stands, skips through the line. At forward, a junior, Zvette Mitchell! Zvette jumps up, bumps into each teammate as she moves down the line. At guard, a freshman, Monica Wright! Monica takes a deep breath, then jogs through the line. She gets to the middle of the floor and looks around with her game face on. And at guard, a sophomore, Sandra Perez! Sandra jogs out and the rest of the team follows. Everyone gathers in a tight circle with their arms around each other.
TONI: Look y'all, we got all these people here to see big-bad, La Tech. We need to let them know that this is our house. So everybody better leave everything out on that floor, you got that? Ready? One, two, three..
TEAM: SMASH CUT TO: INT. SPORTS ARENA - LATE DAY A sellout crowd for the men's SC/Temple game. And Quincy is having the worst game of his life. He drives down court on a fast break. He ignores his two open teammates and puts up a three-pointer. It hits nothing but air. The crowd boos. Humiliated, Quincy tries to steal the ball back and commits a stupid foul. His teammates glare at him as they line up for free throws.
COACH MILLER: That's it, that's it! Ten seconds left. Game on the line. Monica tries to lob a pass inside to Toni. The pass is knocked away and grabbed up by the opposing point guard. It is a one-on-one between Monica and the guard. The girl drives hard for the winning hoop. Monica races to the key and slides in front of her. The guard goes up and slams into Monica. Both crash to the floor as the ball drops through the net and the buzzer goes off. A WHISTLE. The two women stare up at the REFEREE from the floor. And then
REFEREE: Offensive foul! Charging! No basket! Monica leaps up as the crowd goes crazy. Toni grabs up Monica in a hug as their teammates celebrate around them.
MAEYEN: Shoot, you see that crowd? We need to be playing in the Sports Arena.
KELLI: Hell yeah. They give each other a pound. Lisa looks at Monica, standing in her shorts and sports bra.
LISA: Oh damn, Mon.
MONICA: I think ol' girl took out your chi-chis with that charge. The women break into laughter. Monica smiles.
LISA: I think ol' girl took out your chi-chis with that charge. The women break into laughter. Monica smiles.
MONICA: Kiss my ass.
SANDRA: Nah, I think she took that too.
MONICA: Sandra, please, last time you chest- bumped me, it took you three tries. More laughter. Monica looks over at Toni, sitting quietly at the bench. Yo, T, why you so quiet?
TONI: ( beat ) I don't want to go play overseas.
DORA: I thought you were hyped about going to Portugal next year.
TONI: It's never gonna be like this. Playing in front of my family, hanging out with my girls. Probably not even a Nah, there's always a McDonald's.
SANDRA: Nah, there's always a McDonald's.
SIDRA: Least you got an offer. My agent's still looking.
CREE: ( to Lisa ) What about you?
LISA: ( beat ) Maybe it'd be worth it if I knew some day I could come back here and play. But for right now, it's law school.
COACH MILLER: You could've given up after you threw that ball away. But you kept your head and you showed real heart.
MONICA: COACH MILLER We've got our final games against Oregon and Oregon State and I want to shake things up a bit, so I'm starting you at point again.
COACH MILLER: We've got our final games against Oregon and Oregon State and I want to shake things up a bit, so I'm starting you at point again.
MONICA: ( confused ) I thought Sidra's ankle was okay for next You want the job or not? Realization finally hits.
COACH MILLER: You want the job or not? Realization finally hits.
MONICA: Yeah. Yes. Monica looks at Coach Miller completely thrown.
COACH MILLER: It's just.it seems like you're always yelling at me.
MONICA: It's just.it seems like you're always yelling at me.
COACH MILLER: You think I'd go hoarse for a player with no potential? When I ignore you, that's when you worry. Go get dressed. Monica nods, crosses out.
COACH MILLER: Sidra looks at Monica as she rises, crosses over. Monica avoids her eyes as they pass. Sidra enters the office and the door closes.
SHAYLA: Yo sis, what's going on? Beat, then Monica smiles.
GIRL'S VOICE: Yo, great game.
MONICA: Another PARTY-GOER grabs her arm.
MONICA: Reg. You seen Quincy?
REGGIE: What's up, girl.
MONICA: ( louder ) Derek said Q was here.
REGGIE: We'll roll through. Monica is suddenly pulled into a dance routine by Sandra and She laughs, tires to move away, but they won't let her go. Monica gives in, grooves with them.
MONICA: What's up?
QUINCY: What's up?
MONICA: I've been trying to find you all day.
QUINCY: Here I am. She glances at the forty in his hand.
MONICA: Sorry about your game.
QUINCY: It happens, right. Shayla suddenly grabs Monica from behind.
SHAYLA: ( to Monica ) What's up, superstar. ( then, to Quincy ) Your girl was on tonight. She tell you?
QUINCY: ( beat ) I heard.
SHAYLA: She also tell you she ganked the starting spot from Sidra? Monica looks at him for a reaction.
QUINCY: He downs the last of his forty.
SHAYLA: He heads for the glass doors. Monica and Shayla follow.
REGGIE: What's up, dog? Hey, flyness.
SHAYLA: Get off the bra strap, Reggie, you're a He laughs, then turns back to Quincy.
REGGIE: Coach is gonna kill us in practice tomorrow. Might even pull his lips off your dick, limp as your game was tonight. Quincy just looks at him.
QUINCY: That's funny. Monica leans against Quincy, affectionately.
MONICA: he's just playing, Q.
QUINCY: You think for once we could talk about something besides basketball?
SHAYLA: Whatever's clever. Silence. Reggie and Shayla crack up. Quincy shakes his head, moves to the keg line.
REGGIE: Whatever's clever. Silence. Reggie and Shayla crack up. Quincy shakes his head, moves to the keg line.
MONICA: Y'all need to quit. She starts for Quincy
MONICA: What's up?
SIDRA: Just wanted to say good game.
MONICA: No buts. Took a lot of heart to take that charge.
SIDRA: No buts. Took a lot of heart to take that charge.
MONICA: But that was a dumb-ass pass to Toni. Ten seconds left, you run out the clock. Monica shakes her head. An awkward silence. I'd be lying if I said I wasn't pissed.
SIDRA: But that was a dumb-ass pass to Toni. Ten seconds left, you run out the clock. Monica shakes her head. An awkward silence. I'd be lying if I said I wasn't pissed.
MONICA: I know.
SIDRA: Just one word of advice for next season.
MONICA: What's that?
SIDRA: Never let a freshman take your spot. Sidra turns and walks away.
KERRY: Excuse me.
QUINCY: Excuse me. He steps aside as she tries to work the keg. Nothing comes out. She nods at his cup, smiles.
KERRY: If that's the last beer, you and I are Shayla glances over as Quincy pumps the keg a couple of times. Kerry hands him her cup and he starts filling it up. I like watching you play. Number twenty- Guess you didn't see the game. Quincy knows he should blow her off, but he's digging the attention. He hands her back her cup. What's your name?
QUINCY: Guess you didn't see the game. Quincy knows he should blow her off, but he's digging the attention. He hands her back her cup. What's your name?
KERRY: I know.
QUINCY: I know.
KERRY: I know.
ANGLE ON: Monica looks over at Quincy and sees him talking to the hoochie. The girl looks too damn comfortable. Monica moves back outside. She swishes past Monica. Shayla "accidentally" bumps her. Kerry glares.
MONICA: Who was that?
QUINCY: Who's nobody?
MONICA: Who's nobody?
QUINCY: Look, this party's whack. You ready to You want to go talk?
MONICA: You want to go talk?
QUINCY: Not really. He leans in, kisses her drunkenly. She pulls away.
MONICA: We could finish what we were talking about last night. Quincy kisses her again.
QUINCY: You know what, I'm just gonna crash.
MONICA: ( agitated ) Fine.Maybe I'll come by later.
QUINCY: Nah. I have curfew. He starts to walk away, then stops. Oh, by the way. Congratulations. He goes. Monica stares after him.
QUINCY: What are you doing here?
ZEKE: Your door was unlocked.
QUINCY: Still is, so let yourself out.
ZEKE: We need to talk.
QUINCY: We ain't got nothing to talk about.
ZEKE: I messed up, okay, I know that. But I ain't that kid's father.
QUINCY: Lucky kid.
ZEKE: Look, I ain't saying it was right, but sometimes things happen.
QUINCY: And some things should never fucking Boy, you're so perfect you can look down on me?
ZEKE: Boy, you're so perfect you can look down on me?
QUINCY: I ain't a damn liar.
ZEKE: Your mom was real quick to show you those pictures, wasn't she? Well, she was nineteen when she got pregnant and don't get me wrong, you're the best thing in my life, but she knew I wasn't ready for no marriage.
QUINCY: So now you're saying my mother trapped I'm saying I handled my responsibilities like a man. But when you're in the NBA, you pull into a city and there's a hundred women waiting at the hotel. And another twenty that made it past security on your floor. And the boldest one is standing right at your door. And after awhile, it just becomes part of the game. I'm sorry I lied to you, I shouldn't have. But I did it cause I love you. Zeke looks at his son, meaning every word. Quincy stares back, long and hard.
ZEKE: I'm saying I handled my responsibilities like a man. But when you're in the NBA, you pull into a city and there's a hundred women waiting at the hotel. And another twenty that made it past security on your floor. And the boldest one is standing right at your door. And after awhile, it just becomes part of the game. I'm sorry I lied to you, I shouldn't have. But I did it cause I love you. Zeke looks at his son, meaning every word. Quincy stares back, long and hard.
QUINCY: Since we're being honest, guess I should tell you. I'm dropping out of school and going pro.
ZEKE: Quincy just stares back.
QUINCY: ( sarcastic ) From your mouth.
ZEKE: ( desperate ) I know your mad at me, okay, but I can't let you do this.
QUINCY: Always thought "can't" wasn't in a man's Zeke is taken aback by the hatred in his son's eyes. He turns and without another word, exits.
MONICA: Hey, y'all. They barely give her a nod. Monica crosses into
MONICA: Hey, what's up.
QUINCY: Hey, what's up.
MONICA: You weren't at my game.
QUINCY: Yeah, sorry about that. I had this meeting with this guy. Quincy pulls on the T-shirt. You win?
MONICA: Yeah, I hit a three at the buzzer.
QUINCY: The "man" again.
MONICA: ( smiles ) A knock at the front door. Quincy exits.
QUINCY: Hey, you.
KERRY: Quincy gives her a hug. Monica stares at him in disbelief. Reggie and his teammate smack each other, "Oh shit!"
QUINCY: Oh, Kerry, this is Monica. Monica, What the hell's going on?
MONICA: What the hell's going on?
QUINCY: We're going to get some food.
MONICA: Are you out of your mind?
KERRY: Maybe I should come back?
MONICA: No. You stay, I'll leave. She storms out.
CAMILLE: Monica. What are you doing here?
MONICA: Didn't know I needed a reason to come Don't be defensive. I'm just surprised to see you.
CAMILLE: Don't be defensive. I'm just surprised to see you.
MONICA: Dad around?
CAMILLE: He's still at the bank. Monica glowers. Camille looks at her. Everything okay?
MONICA: ( clearly not ) Camille just nods, doesn't bother asking again.
CAMILLE: Well, I'm going to get dinner. She pulls open her car door. Beat, then. It's just a game.
MONICA: Whenever you lose, you get this attitude. But it's just a game. Monica rolls her eyes, as her mom leaves.
CAMILLE: Whenever you lose, you get this attitude. But it's just a game. Monica rolls her eyes, as her mom leaves.
QUINCY: Can we talk?
MONICA: Talk to your new girlfriend.
QUINCY: I just took the ho to Burger King, Cheap date.
MONICA: Cheap date.
QUINCY: Least she had time for me.
MONICA: So you fucked around to prove a point!
QUINCY: I just said I didn't fuck around. But you got your head so far up your ass it took a cheap date for you to notice me.
MONICA: What, "Q-man", did I forget to kiss your ass like everybody else?
QUINCY: You forgot to be there.
MONICA: That night you wanted to talk about your Dad I had a curfew. What was I supposed to do?
QUINCY: If I stayed, I wouldn't be starting!
MONICA: If I stayed, I wouldn't be starting!
QUINCY: Least you got your priorities straight.
MONICA: I never asked you to choose.
QUINCY: Never had to.
MONICA: I'm a ballplayer. If anyone knows what that means it should be you.
QUINCY: Well, if all you care about is basketball, why you fucking me? Go fuck Dick Vitale. Monica punches the shit out of Quincy, then pushes past him. Quincy grabs her arm, stopping her. Hold up. I'm sorry, alright. They stand, silent. Trying to come down from their anger.
MONICA: How do I know next time you're feeling neglected or whatever, you're not going to run around on me? If we're going to be together I have to be able to trust I'm not asking for us to be together. Monica flinches in shock.
QUINCY: I'm not asking for us to be together. Monica flinches in shock.
MONICA: I'm going through a lot of shit right now, more than you have time for.
QUINCY: I'm going through a lot of shit right now, more than you have time for.
MONICA: How are you going to tell me what I have time for? I mean, whatever I did.we can fix this.
QUINCY: I don't think so.
MONICA: You don't think so?
QUINCY: Look, I'm entering the draft.
MONICA: You're what?
QUINCY: I decided to go pro. And who knows where I'll end up, you know? Monica's heart is sinking fast.
MONICA: When did you decide all this?
QUINCY: Few days ago.
MONICA: So that's it, just forget about us?
QUINCY: Damnitt, Monica. This ain't about us anymore, it's about me. Monica is crushed. Beat as, Quincy struggles to stay cold. But, you know, I'd still like us to be She fights back tears. Quincy has to look away. Monica can't respond.
MONICA: She fights back tears. Quincy has to look away. Monica can't respond.
QUINCY: So.I guess I'll see you around.
MONICA: Uh huh. Beat, then Quincy turns and walks away. Monica tries to fight her tears but her pain, hurt and confusion are too much. Finally, she gives in, and the tears fall.
LITTLE GIRLS: Baloncesto! Balencesto! ( Basketball! Basketball! )
MONICA: They giggle, hold out a piece of paper and a pencil.
LITTLE GIRLS: As Monica signs her autograph, a tall woman carrying a matching sports bag approaches. She is LUISA, Spanish, 33.
LUISA: ( thick Spanish accent ) Monica. What is up?
MONICA: Oye, Luisa. Monica hands the girls her autograph and they run off.
LUISA: Large game, no?
MONICA: Si. Large game. They duck into the arena.
COACH PARRA: The women immediately stop talking. COACH PARRA gives an animated, impassioned speech in Spanish. Monica doesn't understand a word, just continues taping her ankles. Coach Parra finishes and the women clap, pumped up. Monica turns to Luisa, seated next to her on the bench.
MONICA: What did he say?
LUISA: He say to give the ball to you.
SIDRA: Well, what do you know.
MONICA: What's up, Sidra.
SIDRA: I'm gonna love winning this championship in your house.
MONICA: How do you say "you're dreaming" in They move into position. The ball is tossed up. Italy winds the tip and the ball is passed to Sidra. Monica hounds her as she brings up the ball. Sidra shoves her off and to the floor, and scores. No whistle. Women's pro ball is at a whole other level. Bigger, better, tougher. The ball is passed in to Monica. She drives down court, goes up for a lay up. An Italian player shoves Monica in mid-air, taking out her legs. Monica crashes on the hardwood. A whistle. Monica lays still for a moment, then pushes herself up and walks to the free-throw line without a word. Without emotion.
SIDRA: Can you take that damn thing off the You mean my championship trophy? My bad. Monica sets it down in the seat next to her, puts an arm around it. Sidra shakes her head.
MONICA: You mean my championship trophy? My bad. Monica sets it down in the seat next to her, puts an arm around it. Sidra shakes her head.
SIDRA: Still a cocky bitch. Monica laughs. She downs her drink, motions to the waiter.
MONICA: Uno mas, por favor. The waiter nods. Last I heard, you were playing in Sweden.
SIDRA: Yeah, four years ago. They had me staying in this tiny-ass town with like fifty people. I'm not playing, there was about a thousand goats running around, and it gets dark at four o'clock. Then the whack club I'm on loses three games in a row and I get blamed. So they fire Just like that?
MONICA: Just like that?
SIDRA: Yup. So I've been playing with this Italian club the last three years.
MONICA: How's that been?
SIDRA: It's better. Even though the whole first season my teammates didn't pass to me cause they were mad "The American" was making more money. I led the team in rebounds cause it was the only way I could touch the damn ball. Monica laughs as the waiter brings her drink. She tries to pay, but he just shakes his head, crosses away. Most of us don't win championships our first year overseas.
MONICA: Please, I went through the same drama as everybody else. I mean, the first four months, only person I could talk to was this chick Luisa, who knew like ten words of English from watching old "Dif'rent Strokes" reruns. Swear to God, I had to tell her if she said, "What you talking bout, Willis?" one more time, I was gonna kick her ass. Sidra laughs. They watch the madness out on the dance floor.
SIDRA: So what are these Spanish guys like?
MONICA: I wouldn't know.
SIDRA: What? You've been over here seven months and you ain't tapped anything?
MONICA: Just not my type, I guess.
SIDRA: Shoot, Italian boys love them some black women. They can't get enough of me. Monica smiles.
MONICA: You ever think about going back?
SIDRA: Sometimes. But what's the alternative, not playing? You remember big Toni? She quit last year, now she's working at some bookstore. I mean, look at us. They treat us like we're Hollywood stars over here. We just played in the championship game. It doesn't get much sweeter than this. Monica takes this in. Her eyes do not reflect someone on top of the world. She takes a long drink.
ANGLE ON: Laker announcers CHICK HEARN and STU LANTZ.
CHICK HEARN: Stu, this game is in the refrigerator. The door is closed, the lights are out, the butter's hard and the Jell-Oooooo's And here come the subs.
STU LANTZ: And here come the subs.
ANGLE ON: Quincy pulls off his sweats and jogs onto the court with the rest of the subs. He is twenty-three, a man. His goatee and tired eyes make him look older. HE NOW WEARS NUMBER TWENTY-
ANGLE ON: Chick and Stu.
CHICK HEARN: Three-pointer is off for the kid from SC. Came out after his freshman year, now in his fifth year with the league.
STU LANTZ: The son of Zeke McCall, played twelve years with the Clippers.
CHICK HEARN: ( nods ) Pretty good player. The kid's moved around quite a bit, but he's hoping to finally have a home with the Lakers.
ANGLE ON: Quincy steals the ball, has nothing but open court ahead of Quincy takes off from the hash-mark and throws down a monster jam. He swings high off the rim. Too high. His hand slips and he crashes to the floor. His knee twists at a sickening The dwindling crowd gasps as Quincy clutches his left knee, writhing in pain.
ZEKE: Nona looks over. Her eyes narrow.
NONA: Not great.
ZEKE: What's that, not great?
NONA: The doctor'll be back in a minute.
ZEKE: Nona, please.
NONA: He tore his ACL. Zeke's shoulders slump. Then he looks back at her.
ZEKE: Almost didn't recognize you with your hair like that. How you been?
NONA: Happy. And he won't want to see you. Nona walks over to a MAN standing nearby. He puts an arm around her and they move down the hall. Zeke watches for a beat, then pulls open Quincy's door, steps inside.
ZEKE: Hey, son. Quincy turns, sees his father. He turns back to the window. Well, you made SportsCenter.
QUINCY: What do you want?
ZEKE: Came by to check on you.
QUINCY: After five years.
ZEKE: Don't remember that being my fault. Seems like you divorced me same time as your mom.
QUINCY: Look, I'm busy.
ZEKE: I can see that. I know things look pretty bleak right now, but you can't get down on yourself.
QUINCY: I stopped taking your advice a long time ago, or did you forget?
ZEKE: Quincy. I know you left school early to throw your middle finger up at me.
QUINCY: Quincy. I know you left school early to throw your middle finger up at me.
ZEKE: Quincy. I know you left school early to throw your middle finger up at me.
QUINCY: And now I'm paying for it, right? That what this is about? "I told you so?"
ZEKE: You want me to fuck off?
QUINCY: Fine, I'll fuck off, but not til I say Silence. Then. You're a better ballplayer than I ever was. But you got a lot of other things going for you. You're smart. I always felt.I always knew that you could do anything you wanted. You want to be a ballplayer, be a ballplayer. Just know you ain't like everybody else on that court. You ain't like I was. You got options. That's all I ever tried to show You're still trying to tell me what I should and shouldn't do. How come you couldn't be the man you kept trying to make me? Zeke stares at his son, wishing he could satisfy him with an I just couldn't With nothing left to say, Zeke pulls open the door and leaves. Quincy stares at the door long after it closes.
ZEKE: Fine, I'll fuck off, but not til I say Silence. Then. You're a better ballplayer than I ever was. But you got a lot of other things going for you. You're smart. I always felt.I always knew that you could do anything you wanted. You want to be a ballplayer, be a ballplayer. Just know you ain't like everybody else on that court. You ain't like I was. You got options. That's all I ever tried to show You're still trying to tell me what I should and shouldn't do. How come you couldn't be the man you kept trying to make me? Zeke stares at his son, wishing he could satisfy him with an I just couldn't With nothing left to say, Zeke pulls open the door and leaves. Quincy stares at the door long after it closes.
QUINCY: You're still trying to tell me what I should and shouldn't do. How come you couldn't be the man you kept trying to make me? Zeke stares at his son, wishing he could satisfy him with an I just couldn't With nothing left to say, Zeke pulls open the door and leaves. Quincy stares at the door long after it closes.
ZEKE: I just couldn't With nothing left to say, Zeke pulls open the door and leaves. Quincy stares at the door long after it closes.
QUINCY: He stumbles. Monica quickly goes to him, catches his arm before he falls.
MONICA: I'm sorry. Quincy stares at her, completely thrown. It's been five years. An awkward beat. So, how you doing?
QUINCY: Alright. I heard you were in Spain.
MONICA: I was. I see your peach fuzz finally grew in. Quincy rubs his goatee self-consciously.
QUINCY: Just something I'm trying.
MONICA: No, it looks good. I mean, it's cool.
QUINCY: Quincy tries to adjust his footing and flinches in pain.
MONICA: Shouldn't you be lying down, or.
QUINCY: I'm alright. But you can sit.
MONICA: I'm fine. My dad said you tore your ACL.
QUINCY: What are the doctors saying?
MONICA: What are the doctors saying?
QUINCY: ( shrugs ) A lot of things. All I know is I'll be back in six months.
MONICA: I thought a torn ACL was ten to twelve.
QUINCY: Not for Quincy McCall.
MONICA: I forgot, "Q-man." An awkward beat.
QUINCY: So, how's pro-ball, Europe?
MONICA: We won the championship.
QUINCY: Still working on being the first girl in the NBA?
MONICA: Well, I tried sneaking in after college, but they found breasts during my Funny. I never did.
QUINCY: Funny. I never did.
MONICA: Kiss my ass. Monica cracks up. Quincy laughs with her. I can't believe it's been five years. Quincy nods.
QUINCY: Tried calling you a couple times.
MONICA: Oh yeah?
QUINCY: Wanted to give you props on making First Team All-American. And then when Magic retired, I tried calling you again.
MONICA: ( lying ) Must have been my cheap-ass answering machine. It was always messing up.
QUINCY: Figured it was something like that. They look at each other. The moment is building. So, when do you go back?
MONICA: Actually, I don't.
QUINCY: What do you mean?
MONICA: I'm tired of playing overseas. Thinking about giving it a rest for awhile.
QUINCY: ( completely thrown ) A rest?
MONICA: Yeah. Basketball just, isn't fun anymore. You know?
QUINCY: He stares at her. Into her.
KYRA: I'm so sorry. No one would switch flights with me.
QUINCY: It's okay.
KYRA: Why are you up? Get in bed. She takes Quincy's arm, moves him to the bed. Monica Tell me you're going to be okay.
QUINCY: I'm gonna be okay. Kyra relaxes. Then she glances over at Monica.
KYRA: Kyra, this is Monica. She, uh.
QUINCY: Kyra, this is Monica. She, uh.
KYRA: ( recognizing ) Monica. You grew up together, right? Quincy's told me about you. Monica smiles awkwardly.
QUINCY: This is Kyra. My fiance. The shock hits too quick to cover. But Monica tries.
MONICA: Fiance. Wow. Congratulations.
KYRA: Thank you.
MONICA: I didn't know. Wow. That's great. Well.I should go.
QUINCY: It means a lot that you came by.
KYRA: Yes, we appreciate that.
MONICA: Yeah, and Quincy, good luck with your knee, and everything.
QUINCY: Monica forces one last smile, pulls open the door and leaves.
MONICA: Need any help?
CAMILLE: Need any help?
MONICA: Need any help?
CAMILLE: I can manage. Monica nods and moves to the barstool. Your sister's bringing the baby over. You should try to be here.
MONICA: Yeah. Can't wait to see him I just saw Quincy.
CAMILLE: How is he?
MONICA: To that stewardess?
CAMILLE: To that stewardess?
MONICA: Yeah, you met her?
CAMILLE: His mother had a cookout a few weeks ago. He could do a lot better if you ask me.
MONICA: Maybe she is. Camille looks up, studies Monica for a moment.
CAMILLE: I thought you were over him. Monica shrugs.
MONICA: So what do I do?
CAMILLE: Find out where they're registered and send them a gift.
MONICA: ( disgusted ) You didn't want my opinion in the first place, so why even ask?
CAMILLE: You didn't want my opinion in the first place, so why even ask?
MONICA: I asked but why does it always have to be so damn prissy.
CAMILLE: Don't curse.
MONICA: There you go.
CAMILLE: What do you want me to tell you, Monica, to go beat that girl up? To go have sex with him? I'm not going to do that. Yes, I believe thinking of other people is important and yes I'd rather bake a pie than shoot a dumb jump shot. If that makes me too "prissy" for you, too bad. Monica stares at her mother. There's no going back.
MONICA: So that's why we can't get along? Because I'd rather shoot a "dumb" jump You're the one always turning your nose up at me.
CAMILLE: You're the one always turning your nose up at me.
MONICA: No I don't.
CAMILLE: Child, please. Ever since you were little you thought you were too good for anything I had to say.
MONICA: I wasn't Lena. I didn't care about nail polish or lip gloss or sneaking a spray of your perfume.
CAMILLE: What was so wrong with wanting to teach you the things I knew could help you?
MONICA: Because you're pushing me to be something I'm not.
CAMILLE: So you're angry with me because you're standing here with your hair combed and wearing perfume? Monica is busted. It takes her a moment to come back.
MONICA: I'm angry because I want a mother, not Martha Stewart.
CAMILLE: Oh, yes. The superstar female athlete whose mother is nothing but a housewife.
MONICA: That's not it.
CAMILLE: Don't tell me you aren't ashamed of that because I know. Monica stares at her mother.
MONICA: I remember when I was eight years old, you spent like four hours cooking up this fancy meal. All you'd let me and Lena do was set the table. And I guess you and Dad got your wires crossed or something because he walks in with a couple of pizzas. And you didn't say anything. You just threw the whole meal into some tupper-ware and tossed it in the fridge.
CAMILLE: I don't remember that.
MONICA: I do. You never stood up for yourself. Ever. If I was ashamed, it was because of that.
CAMILLE: That's ridiculous.
MONICA: What's ridiculous is not being a caterer so your husband can feel like a man knowing his woman's home cooking and ironing his drawers. WHAP! Camille's humiliation is immediate and she cuts off Monica with a SLAP. Camille curses herself for losing it.
CAMILLE: Dammitt, Monica! Monica is stunned, hurt.
MONICA: I'm sorry. Camille stares at her daughter, devastated.
CAMILLE: Is that really all you think of me? Monica can't answer. When I married your father, all I wanted was a nice house with a big kitchen so I could start my catering business. And then I got pregnant with Lena, and then I got pregnant with you. And I put it out of my mind because that's what you did. Monica stares at her mother. But you want to know what day I remember? In high school, you getting ready for the Spring Dance. I put my pearls around your neck, told you you were beautiful and you looked like you were going to cry. That day I was happy I didn't have a catering business to run off to. My family had three meals a day, had someone to pick up after them, and when my daughters went to a dance, I helped them get ready. That's what I came to care That's all you cared about. I must have played in a thousand games and I can only remember you being to two.
MONICA: ( softly ) That's all you cared about. I must have played in a thousand games and I can only remember you being to two.
CAMILLE: You had your coaches and your father for that stuff. It never mattered one way or the other if I went to your games.
MONICA: It mattered, Mom. Camille looks at her daughter and is struck by the need in her eyes. Monica moves off the barstool and leaves.
QUINCY: Damn, girl.
KYRA: I don't wanna see that.
QUINCY: I don't wanna see that.
KYRA: Get used to it, babe. She flushes. Quincy steps out, grabs a towel. A long scar runs across his knee cap.
QUINCY: Brother's gonna have to start locking Kyra laughs as she buttons up her flight attendant's uniform. They cross into:
QUINCY: So how long is this trip?
KYRA: Four days. Quincy nods. So are you going to be the kind of husband who won't let his wife work?
QUINCY: ( playfully ) Why not?
KYRA: ( playfully ) Why not?
QUINCY: You might be the only one with a job.
KYRA: Baby, don't talk like that. Your rehab's going well. You'll be back before you know it.
QUINCY: Sometimes I wonder if it's worth it. Busting my ass, for what?
KYRA: To do what you love.
QUINCY: I don't know sometimes.
KYRA: You're just scared. I know rehab is hard, and you have to worry about whether you'll be as good as you were but you will be. I believe in you. You just have to get back on the court. Like you'd get back on a horse.
QUINCY: ( beat ) A horse?
KYRA: Don't make fun of me when I'm being wonderful and supportive. You belong on the court. Just like I belong in the stands, looking cute and cheering you on. She smiles, gives him a kiss, moves back to her packing. Off INT. BANK - DAY Monica sits at her desk in a blouse and skirt, punching numbers into the computer. A man sits down in the chair opposite her. Monica glances up. It's her father.
NATHAN: Hey, munchkin.
MONICA: Dad. What are you doing here?
NATHAN: I was upstairs for a meeting. I've been hearing good things about you.
MONICA: That tends to happen when you're the boss's daughter.
NATHAN: So how's the job going? Monica forces a smile.
MONICA: You know. Nathan looks at her, nods.
NATHAN: I think I know what the problem is. He pulls a GARBAGE CAN HOOP from a plastic shopping bag. Monica smiles. He attaches it to her garbage can. He shoots an ugly, imaginary shot. She laughs.
MONICA: You shoot like a girl.
NATHAN: I'll take that as a compliment. He gives her a smile, and exits. Monica looks at the hoop, then crumples a piece of paper.
MONICA: ( whispering ) And she gets the steal. Monica goes one- on-one against Jordan, she stops, pops. Monica shoots. The paper drops through the net. ( still whispering ) It's good! It's good! She glances up, notices a few patrons watching her. Monica quickly composes herself and goes back to her work.
QUINCY: I remember when your mom had to beat you into a dress. Monica smiles.
MONICA: You visiting?
QUINCY: ( nods ) Kyra's gone for a couple days. Figured I'd keep Mom company.
MONICA: Who's this guy I always see her around?
QUINCY: Darryl. He's alright, kinda corny.
MONICA: So.how's the knee?
QUINCY: Getting there.
MONICA: Strong enough to get you down the aisle?
QUINCY: Yeah. Two weeks. I didn't get to send you an invitation, but if you.
MONICA: That's okay. I'm probably, you know, Quincy nods. Awkward beat.
QUINCY: Can I ask you something? Monica looks at him. You never told me why ball isn't fun It just isn't.
MONICA: It just isn't.
QUINCY: Because I'm kinda feeling that way, too.
MONICA: You had a rough couple years, that's all.
QUINCY: That a nice way of saying I rode the And you tore up your knee. Rehab is Nah. I haven't dribbled a ball in four and a half months. Maybe I miss some of the attention, but besides that.
MONICA: And you tore up your knee. Rehab is Nah. I haven't dribbled a ball in four and a half months. Maybe I miss some of the attention, but besides that.
QUINCY: Nah. I haven't dribbled a ball in four and a half months. Maybe I miss some of the attention, but besides that.
MONICA: You're serious.
QUINCY: Seems like I needed a ball when I was trying to be like my pops.or trying to be better than him. Now, I kinda think I need to try something else.
MONICA: Like what?
QUINCY: Maybe go back to school.
MONICA: Monica stares at him, seeing a man in the boy she grew up with. Quincy looks away, self-conscious.
QUINCY: I mean, Kyra hasn't heard the school thing yet. She'll probably say it's the painkillers It's a trip, you know? When you're a kid, you see the life you want, and it never crosses your mind that it's not gonna turn out that way.
MONICA: It's a trip, you know? When you're a kid, you see the life you want, and it never crosses your mind that it's not gonna turn out that way.
QUINCY: So why'd you give up ball?
MONICA: Why do you keep asking me that?
QUINCY: Cause I don't get it.
MONICA: Something was just missing.
QUINCY: Monica is too hurt, too scared to tell him the truth.
MONICA: It doesn't matter, alright. Just leave it alone.
QUINCY: Monica turns, crosses to her house. She stumbles on her heels, kicks them off in frustration, and exits inside. Quincy walks back to his curb.
ANGLE ON: Camille watches from the kitchen window
CAMILLE: So you're still breast-feeding?
LENA: The doctor said it was okay. Anyway, I'm still trying to lose some of this baby She quickly looks over at Monica. Shut up. Monica gives her a small smile. Camille looks down at L.P.
CAMILLE: You might want to put a jacket on him, it's getting cold.
LENA: He's fine.
CAMILLE: ( warning ) Lena sighs, rolls her eyes. She picks up her son.
LENA: Come on, L.P. Grandma says it's too She exits inside. Camille makes a face.
CAMILLE: God. "Grandma." Monica smiles. And then silence. There is still so much distance between them, so many misunderstanding. Camille stares at her daughter. And then. You know, I'd probably be a lot more "prissy" in the situation than you'd like, but the thing I always admired that drove me crazy, was the fight you had in What are you talking about?
MONICA: What are you talking about?
CAMILLE: When I said Quincy could do better, I was thinking about you. Monica stares at her mom. Camille stands and leaves.
QUINCY: ( half-asleep ) What's going on?
MONICA: We need to talk. Quincy just looks at her. Hold on. Quincy disappears for a moment, then returns, pulling on a T- shirt. He climbs out of his window, drops to the ground. Quincy looks at her.
QUINCY: Hold on. Quincy disappears for a moment, then returns, pulling on a T- shirt. He climbs out of his window, drops to the ground. Quincy looks at her.
MONICA: You asked me what was missing.
QUINCY: From basketball.
MONICA: From basketball.
QUINCY: you woke me up to tell me that?
MONICA: It's not fun for me anymore because you're missing. Quincy stares at her. What I'm trying to say is
QUINCY: I heard enough.
MONICA: What I'm trying to say is, I've loved you since I was eleven and the shit won't go We haven't talked since college and now you wait two weeks before my wedding to say something like this?
QUINCY: We haven't talked since college and now you wait two weeks before my wedding to say something like this?
MONICA: I know, I probably should have said it two weeks ago. Quincy doesn't even crack a smile. In fact, he glares.
QUINCY: You haven't changed. You still think the sun rises and sets on your ass. Well, guess what, it doesn't.
MONICA: Then why are you so upset?
QUINCY: Because you don't pull this on someone who's about to get married.
MONICA: Better late than never, right?
QUINCY: Quincy starts back toward the window.
MONICA: I'll play you.
QUINCY: One game. One-on-one.
MONICA: One game. One-on-one.
QUINCY: For what?
MONICA: Your heart. Quincy looks at her in disbelief, then laughs at the You're out of your mind.
QUINCY: You're out of your mind.
MONICA: So you're gonna bitch up?
QUINCY: What's that supposed to be, psychology?
MONICA: I know why you broke up with me in college. And not that what you did wasn't messed up, but what I did was, too. So if you forgive me, I'll forgive Monica, after that stuff with my dad, I couldn't trust anybody, okay. I mean, I was lost. So you are forgiven. But that was five years ago. I moved on. Monica moves past him, reaches through his window. She drops back down, holding his basketball.
QUINCY: Monica, after that stuff with my dad, I couldn't trust anybody, okay. I mean, I was lost. So you are forgiven. But that was five years ago. I moved on. Monica moves past him, reaches through his window. She drops back down, holding his basketball.
MONICA: Prove it. She throws him the ball.
QUINCY: What will this prove?
MONICA: You once said the reason I beat you was because you wanted me to.
QUINCY: So, if I win it's because deep down you know you're about to make the biggest mistake of your life, and deep down your want me to stop you.
MONICA: So, if I win it's because deep down you know you're about to make the biggest mistake of your life, and deep down your want me to stop you.
QUINCY: And what happens when you lose?
MONICA: If I lose, I'll buy you a wedding Quincy stares at her.
MONICA: Quincy tosses the ball back. Monica drives. Quincy's knee is maybe at sixty percent and he can't keep up. She scores She walks to the top of the driveway, tosses him the ball. Quincy rubs his scarred knee, then passes it back. The game continues. Monica owns the first five points easily by exploiting Quincy's injury. Monica drives for another lay-up. Quincy suddenly lets go of his fear, leaps and swats her shot. He grabs the rebound and lays it up. He nods intensely, as he grabs the ball and walks back to the top of the key.
QUINCY: One, five. Check. The game continues and now Quincy has the upper-hand, using his size and strength. He scores seven straight points. The score stays close. It is a sexually-charged battle of wills Quincy pulls off his sweat-soaked shirt. Their bodies collide as they wrestle for the ball. Monica yanks off her jersey in frustration. Her ass bumps into his hips as she backs him in. Her hands slide across his chest as she guards him. Finally, the score hits nine, nine. Monica slowly walks to the top of the key.
MONICA: Nine, up. Point. She tosses Quincy the ball. Quincy tosses the ball back, drops low on defense. Monica fakes an outside shot and Quincy bites. Monica drives around him. SHE HAS A WIDE-OPEN LAY-UP. SHE PUTS IT UP..AND IT ROLLS OFF THE RIM. Monica can't believe it. Quincy grabs the loose ball and clears it. He stares at Monica as he dribbles in front of her. She stares back. He breaks for the basket. Monica stays with him. He goes up. Monica jumps, desperately tries to block his shot. Quincy dunks on her, knocking her to the ground. He lets go of the rim, and tumbles to the ground also. GAME OVER. Silence. Quincy stares at her. Monica looks back. Then:
QUINCY: ( pointed ) All's fair in love and basketball, right? Monica struggles to fight back her tears as she picks herself up. She slowly walks back toward her house. And then: Monica slowly stops, turns. Double or nothing. Monica stares at him, wonders if she heard right. Quincy limps to his feet, picks up the ball and holds it out to her. Monica slowly walks back to him. They stare at each other. No more egos, no more bullshit. Just love. In the moonlight, on the blacktop, they kiss.
SPORTS REPORTER: So, Magic, are you contemplating another No more comebacks. Tonight I'm just enjoying being a spectator. Behind him, in a second row seat, a ONE YEAR BLACK GIRL sits in a lap, bouncing, watching feet and legs ballin' on the Quincy leans down, gives the little girl a kiss, then looks out at the court. It's the Los Angeles Sparks and the New York Liberty. The WNBA. On the court, the women line up for a free-throw.
MAGIC: ( laughs ) No more comebacks. Tonight I'm just enjoying being a spectator. Behind him, in a second row seat, a ONE YEAR BLACK GIRL sits in a lap, bouncing, watching feet and legs ballin' on the Quincy leans down, gives the little girl a kiss, then looks out at the court. It's the Los Angeles Sparks and the New York Liberty. The WNBA. On the court, the women line up for a free-throw.
QUINCY: Let's go, McCall! Monica, sporting a uniform with Wright-McCall on the back and the number thirty-two, looks over. Quincy takes their daughter's hand and waves it. Go Mommy. Monica smiles back, then steps to the line. The referee tosses her the ball. Monica stares at the basket, then bounces the ball twice, licks her lips and shoots.
"THAT'S GAME": END CREDITS Writers : Gina Prince-Bythewood
END CREDITS: Writers : Gina Prince-Bythewood
