GUS: Who was this fuckin' guy?
NICK: Rock and roll, Gus.  Johnny Boz.
GUS: I never heard of him.
NICK: (grins) Before your time, pop. (a beat) Mid-sixties.  Five or six hits. He's got a club down in the Fillmore now.
GUS: Not now he don't. Past the uniformed guys... nods... waves... past the forensic men... past the coroner's investigators... they get to the bedroom.
LT. WALKER: (to Nick and Gus) You guys know Captain Talcott? They nod.
GUS: What's the Chief's office doin' here.
CAPT. TALCOTT: Observing.
LT. WALKER: (to the Coroner's Guy) What do you think, Doc?
THE CORONER'S GUY: The skin blanches when I press it -- this kind of color is about right for six or eight hours.
LT. WALKER: Nobody say anything.  The maid came in an hour ago and found him. She's not a live-in.
GUS: Maybe the maid did it.
LT. WALKER: She's 54 years old and weighs 240 pounds.
THE CORONER'S GUY: (deadpan) There are no bruises on his body.
GUS: (grins) It ain't the maid.
LT. WALKER: He left the club with his girlfriend about midnight.  That's the last time anybody saw him.
NICK: (looks at body) What was it?
THE CORONER'S GUY: Ice pick.  Left on the coffee table in the living room.  Thin steel handle.  Forensics took it downtown.
HARRIGAN: There's come all over the sheets -- he got off before he got offed.
GUS: (deadpan) That rules the maid out for sure.
CAPT. TALCOTT: This is sensitive.  Mr. Boz was a major contributor to the mayor's campaign.  He was Chairman of the Board of the Palace of Fine Arts --
GUS: (to Nick) I thought you said he was a rock and roll star.
LT. WALKER: He was a retired rock and roll star.
CAPT. TALCOTT: A civic-minded, very respectable rock and roll star.
GUS: What's that over there? We see the white powder laid out in lines on the small mirror on the side table.
NICK: (deadpan) It looks like some civic-minded, very respectable cocaine to me, Gus.
CAPT. TALCOTT: (evenly, to Nick) Listen to me, Curran.  I'm going to get a lot of heat on this.  I don't want any... mistakes. Nick and Talcott look at each other a beat, then --
NICK: Who's the girlfriend? Lt. Walker looks at the notepad in his hand.
LT. WALKER: Catherine Tramell, 162 Divisadero. Nick writes it down.  He and Gus turn, leave.  Captain Talcott watches them.  He looks disturbed.
NICK: Talcott doesn't usually show up at the office 'till after his 18 holes. What are they nervous about?
GUS: They're executives.  They're nervous about everything.
LT. WALKER: Nick! He stops, turns, sees Walker behind them.  Walker comes up to them.
LT. WALKER: (to Nick) Keep your three o'clock.
NICK: Do you want me to work the case, Phil, or do you want me to --
LT. WALKER: I said keep it.
NICK: I'm Detective Curran, this is Detective Moran.  We're with the San Francisco Police Department. We'd like to speak to Ms. Catherine Tramell.
THE MAID: (after a beat, an accent) Just moment.  Come in. She leads them into a lavish, beautifully done living room that offers a sweeping view of the Bay.
THE MAID: Sit, please.  Just moment. They look around, impressed.  There is a Picasso on the wall here, too.
GUS: Ain't that cute?  They got his and her Pig-assos, son.
NICK: (smiles) I didn't know you knew who Picasso was, Gus.
GUS: (grins) I'm a smart sonofabitch.  I just hide it. Nick smiles -- and at that moment a beautiful BLONDE walks into the room.  She looks like she has been asleep.  She is in her early 20's.  She wears a very sheer robe.
NICK: We're sorry to disturb you, we'd like to ask you some --
THE WOMAN: Are you vice?
GUS: (after a beat) Homicide.
THE WOMAN: What do you want?
GUS: When was the last time you saw John Boz?
THE WOMAN: Is he dead?
NICK: (after a beat) Why do you think he's dead?
THE WOMAN: You wouldn't be here otherwise, would you?
GUS: Were you with him last night?
THE WOMAN: You're looking for Catherine, not me.
NICK: Who are you?
THE WOMAN: I'm Roxy. (a beat) I'm her -- friend. She looks at them a beat.
ROXY: She's out at the beach house at Stinson.  Seadrift.  1402.
NICK: Thanks. They start to head out.
ROXY: You're wasting your time. Catherine didn't kill him. A beat, they look at her, and go...
NICK: Ms. Tramell? She takes a long look a Nick, then looks away. CATHERINE TRAMELL is 30 years old.  She has long blonde hair and a refined, classically beautiful face.  She is not knockout gorgeous like Roxy; there is a smoky kind of sensuousness about her.
NICK: I'm De...
CATHERINE: (evenly) I know who you are. She doesn't look at them.  She looks at the water.
CATHERINE: How did he die?
GUS: He was murdered.
CATHERINE: Really.  Maybe that's why you're from Homicide.  How? Nick glances at Gus.
NICK: With an ice pick. She closes her eyes a beat and then, still staring out, we see a thin smile.  They see it, too, and glance at each other.
NICK: How long were you dating him?
CATHERINE: I wasn't dating him.  I was fucking him. They glance at each other again.
GUS: What are you -- a pro? Catherine looks at him -- that thin smile again.
CATHERINE: No.  I'm an amateur. She looks away.
NICK: How long were you having sex with him?
CATHERINE: About a year and a half.
NICK: Were you with him last night?
CATHERINE: Yes.
NICK: Did you leave the club with him?
CATHERINE: Yes.
NICK: Did you go home with him?
CATHERINE: No.  We had a drink at the club. We left together.  I came here. He went home.
NICK: Was there anyone with you last night?
CATHERINE: (looks at Nick) No.  I wasn't in the mood to have sex with anyone last night. They look at her a beat.
NICK: Let me ask you something, Ms. Tramell?  Are you sorry he's dead? Catherine looks at him.
CATHERINE: Yes.  I liked fucking him. They stare at her.  She looks out at the water.
CATHERINE: I don't really feel like talking anymore.
GUS: Listen, lady, we can do this downtown if you --
CATHERINE: Read me my rights and arrest me and I'll go downtown. She doesn't even look at them.
CATHERINE: (quietly) Otherwise, get the fuck out of here.  Please. A long beat as they look at her.
NICK: I'm sorry, Beth.  I -- I got hung up in Stinson. DR. ELIZABETH GARDNER, the police psychologist, is a very good- looking, dark-haired woman.  She is 30.
BETH: (smiles) How are you, Nick?
NICK: I'm fine.  Come on, Beth!  You know I'm fine!  How the hell long do I have to keep doing this?
BETH: As long as Internal Affairs wants you to, I suppose.  Sit down, Nick.
NICK: It's bullshit.  You know it is.
BETH: (smiles) I know it is -- but sit down anyway so we can get it over with, okay? He sits down.
BETH: So -- how are things?
NICK: (after a beat) Things are fine.  I told you. They're fine. She watches him closely.
BETH: (after a beat) How is your -- personal life?
NICK: My sex life is fine. (a beat) My sex life is pretty shitty actually since I stopped seeing you -- maybe I should think about my Electrolux again. That embarrassed her; she looks away from him.
NICK: (after a beat) Sorry. She shrugs.  A beat.
BETH: How about the booze?
NICK: It's been three months.
BETH: (after a long beat) How about the coke?
NICK: No.
BETH: No?
NICK: (hard) No!  I'm working my tail off.  I'm off the sauce, I'm not even smoking anymore. She smiles.
BETH: How's not smoking?
NICK: It's fucked -- now will you please tell I.A. that I'm just you average healthy totally fucked-up cop and let me get out of here?
BETH: (after a beat; smiles) Yes.
NICK: Thank you. And he starts heading out.
BETH: (behind him) I still miss you, Nick. He doesn't even turn, pretends he didn't hear.
GUS: Talcott's in there.  They're waiting. They start heading for Lt. Walker's office.
GUS: How'd it go, son?
NICK: She misses me.
GUS: (grins) Hallelujah.
HARRIGAN: Sixteen stab wounds to the chest and neck.  No usable prints, no forcible entry, nothing missing. No prints on the ice pick, either -- it's available at any Safeway. The scarf is Hermes, expensive -- they sell about 20,000 a year worldwide.
ANDREWS: The powder was cocaine, high- quality, high-content.  He inhaled it; there were minute quantities on his lips and penis.  Mr. Boz leaves five million dollars, no insurance, no direct survivors. He liked his coke, he liked his girls, and he liked rock and roll.
NICK: He liked the mayor, too, right? Talcott gives him a look.
GUS: What about his girlfriend?
TALCOTT: Is she relevant here?  I didn't know she was a suspect.
LT. WALKER: She's a suspect.
TALCOTT: On what basis?
LT. WALKER: (looks a notes) Catherine Tramell.  Age 30.  No priors, no convictions.  Double major, magnum cum laude, Berkeley, 1980.  Literature and Psychology. Daughter, sole survivor -- Marvin and Elaine Tramell, killed in a boating accident, 1978, Catherine Tramell sole heir.  Estimated assets $110 million. It hangs there.
NICK: Are you kidding me?
LT. WALKER: (continues) Formerly engaged to Roberto Vasquez, deceased --
ANDREWS: Bobby Vasquez?
LT. WALKER: Bobby Vasquez, former middleweight contender, killed in the ring Atlantic City, 1984.
NICK: (smiles) I love it.  She's got a hundred million bucks.  She fucks fighters and rock and roll stars.  And she's got a degree in screwing with peoples' heads.
LT. WALKER: You forgot her degree in literature. She's a writer.  She published a novel last year under a pen name. Do you want to know what it's about? They just stare at him.
LT. WALKER: It's about a retired rock and roll star who is murdered by his girlfriend. It hangs there a long beat.
NICK: Page 67, pop.  Do you know how she does the boyfriend?  With an icepick, in bed, his hands tied with a white silk scarf.
LT. WALKER: Dr. Gardner?
BETH: I've asked Dr. Lamott to consult with us.  This isn't really my turf.  Dr. Lamott teaches the psycho- pathology of psychopathic behavior at Stanford and is also a member of the Justice Department's Psychological Profile team.  Dr. Lamott?
DR. LAMOTT: There are two possibilities.  One. The person who wrote this book is your murderer and acted out the killing described in ritualistic, literal detail.  Two.  Someone who wants to do the person who wrote this book harm read the book and enacted the killing described to incriminate the writer.
NICK: (after a long beat) What if the writer did it?  What are we dealing with?
DR. LAMOTT: You're dealing with a devious, diabolical mind.  This book must have been written at least six months, maybe years before it was published.  That means the writer planned the crime, at least in the subconscious, back then.  The fact that the writer carried it out indicates psychopathic obsessive behavior in terms not only of the killing itself but in terms of applied advance defense mechanism. A long beat.
GUS: Most times I can't tell shit from shinola, Doc.  What was all that you just said? Some grins, titters.
BETH: She anticipates the book to be her best alibi.
DR. LAMOTT: Correct.
BETH: She's going to say Do you think I'd be dumb enough to kill anyone in the exact way I've described in my book?  I wouldn't do that because I'd know I'd be a suspect. A long beat -- as they think about it.
NICK: What if it's not the writer?  What if it's someone who read the book?
DR. LAMOTT: You're dealing then with someone so obsessed that he or she is willing to kill an irrelevant and innocent victim to place the blame on the person who wrote this book. We are talking about deep-seated, obsessional hatred; an utter lack of sense of proportion or perspective.
GUS: We've got a top-of-the-line, once- in-a-lifetime loony-tune either way you cut it -- that's what you're saying, right, Doc?
DR. LAMOTT: You're dealing with someone very dangerous and very ill.
CORRIGAN: Come on, you know there's no case here.  There's no physical evidence -- okay, she doesn't have an alibi but there's no motive.  Her defense would just beat us to death with the copycat thing.  Anybody who read the book could have done it. A long beat; no one says anything.
NICK: So what do we do -- nothing?
LT. WALKER: (after a beat) We bring her in for questioning.
TALCOTT: She's got enough money to burn this whole department down.
LT. WALKER: She was the last person seen with the guy -- I'll take the responsibility.
TALCOTT: It's yours.
CORRIGAN: It won't do any good.  She'll come in with Lee Bailey and Mel Belli trailing behind her on a solid gold chain from Tiffanys.
TALCOTT: Yes she will.
NICK: (after a beat) No she won't. They look at him.
NICK: (smiles) I don't think she's going to hide behind anybody.  I don't think she's going to hide at all.
TALCOTT: (after a beat) I think you're as crazy as she probably is, Curran. Nicks says nothing.
GUS: You know what they say: It takes one to know one. Nick looks a Gus, grins.
NICK: Ms. Tramell, we'd like you to come downtown and answer some questions for us.
CATHERINE: Are you arresting me?
NICK: If that's the way you want to play it. They look at each other a beat.
CATHERINE: (smiles) Can I change into something more appropriate?  It'll just take a minute. He nods.
CATHERINE: Come in.
CATHERINE: How long will this take? Nick puts the paper down on the coffee table.  He is lost in his thoughts.  Gus picks the paper up.
NICK: (looks up) I don't know. Nick, facing the half open bedroom door, sees a mirror near the wall of the bedroom.  The mirror reflects her in the other corner of the bedroom.  She is taking her clothes off.  He stares.  She strips down.  He sees her back. She has a beautiful body.  Naked, she puts a dress on.  She doesn't put any underwear on.
NICK: Do you always keep old newspapers around?
CATHERINE: Only when they make interesting reading. And she is suddenly out of the bedroom.  She stands there, smiles.  They look at each other a long beat.
CATHERINE: (finally) I'm ready. They get up, head out.
GUS: You have the right to an attorney.
CATHERINE: Why would I need an attorney?
CATHERINE: Do you have a cigarette?
NICK: I don't smoke.
CATHERINE: Yes, you do.
NICK: I quit. She smiles, looks at him.  A beat, and he turns away.  Another beat, and she lights a cigarette up.
NICK: I thought you were out of cigarettes.
CATHERINE: I found some in my purse; would you like one? He turns back to her.
NICK: I told you -- I quit.
CATHERINE: It won't last. A beat, as she looks at him, and then he turns away.
GUS: You workin' on another book?
CATHERINE: Yes I am.
GUS: It must really be somehtin' --makin' stuff up all the time. He watches her in the rearview mirror.
CATHERINE: It teaches you to lie.
GUS: How's that?
CATHERINE: You make it up, but it has to be believable.  They call it suspension of disbelief.
GUS: I like that.  "Suspension of Disbelief." He smiles at her in the mirror.
NICK: What's your new book about?
CATHERINE: A detective.  He falls for the wrong woman. He turns back to her.
NICK: What happens to him? She looks right into his eye.
CATHERINE: She kills him. A beat, as they look at each other, and then he turns away from her.  Gus watcher her in the rearview mirror.
CORRIGAN: I'm John Corrigan.  I'm an assistant district attorney, Ms.  Tramell. Can we get you anything?  Would you like some coffee?
CATHERINE: No thank you.
TALCOTT: Are your attorneys --
NICK: (hiding a smile) Ms. Tramell waived her right to an attorney. Corrigan and Talcott glance at Nick.  She sees the look.
CATHERINE: (smiles) Did I miss something?
NICK: I told them you wouldn't want an attorney present.
LT. WALKER: Why have you waived your right to an attorney, Ms. Tramell?
CATHERINE: (to Nick) Why did you think I wouldn't want one?
NICK: I told them you wouldn't want to hide.
CATHERINE: I have nothing to hide. The two of them keep their eyes on each other. She sits down.  They sit around her.  Nick sits directly across from her.  She lights up a cigarette.  They watch her. She is poised, cool, in complete command of herself.
CORRIGAN: There is no smoking in this building, Ms. Tramell.
CATHERINE: What are you going to do?  Charge me with smoking? Ever so casually, she blows her smoke across at Nick.
CORRIGAN: Would you tell us the nature of your relationship with Mr. Boz?
CATHERINE: I had sex with him for about a year and a half.  I liked having sex with him. She has control of the room; she looks from one man to the other as she speaks.
CATHERINE: He wasn't afraid of experimenting. I like men like that.  I like men who give me pleasure.  He gave me a lot of pleasure. A beat, as they watch her.  She is so matter-of-fact.
CORRIGAN: Did you ever engage in sado- masochistic activity with him?
CATHERINE: (smiles) Exactly what do you have in mind, Mr. Corrigan.
CORRIGAN: (after a beat, little flustered) Did you ever tie him up?
CATHERINE: No.
ANDREWS: You never tied him up.
CATHERINE: No. Johnny liked to use his hands too much.  I like hands and fingers. They stare at her.
LT. WALKER: You describe a white silk scarf in your book.
CATHERINE: I've always had a fondness for white silk scarves. (she smiles) I have a very vivid imagination.
NICK: But you said you liked men to use their hands.
CATHERINE: No.  I said I liked Johnny to use his hands. (she smiles) I don't give any rules, Nick.  I go with the flow. They have their eyes on each other.
CORRIGAN: Did you kill Mr. Boz, Ms. Tramell?
CATHERINE: I'd have to be pretty stupid to write a book about a killing and then kill him the way I described in my book. I'd be announcing myself as the killer.  I'm not stupid. She smiles.
TALCOTT: We know you're not stupid, Ms. Tramell.
LT. WALKER: Maybe that's what you're counting on to get you off the hook.
NICK: Writing a book about it gives you an alibi for not killing him.
CATHERINE: Yes it does, doesn't it? She holds his eyes a second, then --
CATHERINE: The answer is no.  I didn't kill him.
GUS: Do you use drugs, Ms. Tramell?
CATHERINE: Sometimes.
HARRIGAN: Did you ever do drugs with Mr. Boz?
CATHERINE: Sure.
GUS: What kind of drugs?
CATHERINE: Cocaine. She looks directly at Nick.
CATHERINE: Have you ever fucked on cocaine? (she smiles) It's nice. He watches her.
NICK: You like playing games, don't you?
CATHERINE: (smiles) I've got a degree in psych.  It goes with the turf.  Games are fun. They are holding each other's eyes.
NICK: How about boxing?  That's a game. Was that fun for you? They don't take their eyes off each other for a second.
TALCOTT: I think that's irrelevant to this inquiry.
CATHERINE: (to Nick) Yes it was.  Bobby died.
NICK: How did you feel when he died?
CATHERINE: I loved him.  I hurt. Their eyes are still on each other.
NICK: How did you feel when I told you Johnny Boz had died -- that day at the beach.
CATHERINE: I felt somebody had read my book and was playing a game.
NICK: But you didn't hurt --
CATHERINE: No.
NICK: Because you didn't love him --
CATHERINE: That's right. Their eyes are digging into each other.
NICK: Even though you were fucking him.
CATHERINE: (after a beat) You still get the pleasure.  Didn't you ever fuck anybody else while you were married, Nick? A beat; he stares at her, expressionless.
LT. WALKER: How did you know he was married?
CATHERINE: (watching Nick) Maybe I was guessing.  What difference does it make? She lights a cigarette.  He stares at her.
CATHERINE: Would you like a cigarette, Nick? He just stares at her, expressionless.
CORRIGAN: Do you two know each other?
NICK: No.
CATHERINE: No.
ANDREWS: How did you meet Mr. Boz?
CATHERINE: I wanted to write a book about the murder of a retired rock star.  I went down to his club and picked him up.  Then I had sex with him.
LT. WALKER: You didn't feel anything for him. You just had sex with him for your book. She looks at Nick.
CATHERINE: In the beginning.  Then I got to like what he did for me.
GUS: That's pretty cold, ain't it, lady?
CATHERINE: I'm a writer,  I use people for what I write.  You write what you know.  Let the world beware. She and Nick have their eyes on each other, then --
CATHERINE: (to Corrigan, smiles) Would you like me to take a lie detector test?
THE EXAMINER: No blips, no blood pressure variations, no pulse variance. Either she's telling the truth or I've never met anyone like her. A long beat, then --
LT. WALKER: Well, I guess that's it. A long beat, Nick watches her as she sits inside.
NICK: How does somebody beat this machine?
THE EXAMINER: Ninety-nine point nine percent of the cases, they don't.  You'd have to be able to mask the truth from your own central nervous system, your circulatory system, your adrenal glands.  In my opinion, this woman is telling the truth. The Examiner walks away.  They stand there. Catherine stands at the door of the cubicle behind them --
CATHERINE: Can I go now?
LT. WALKER: (after a beat) Yes.  Thanks for coming in, Ms. Tramell.  I'm sorry to inconvenience you. She says nothing, has a thin smile.
CATHERINE: Can I ask one of you for a ride? They look at her a beat.
NICK: Sure.
CATHERINE: (smiles) Thanks. And he and Catherine walk away.  Gus and Walker watch them.
CATHERINE: (smiles) I'm tired.
NICK: It's got to be tiring to beat that machine. She looks at him and looks away.  A beat.
CATHERINE: If I were guilty, and if I wanted to beat that machine, it wouldn't be tiring.  It wouldn't be tiring at all.
NICK: Why not?
CATHERINE: Because I'm a professional liar. I spend most of my waking hours dwelling on my lies. (a beat) For my writing. He looks at her.
CATHERINE: (smiles) I love the rain, don't you? He says nothing, doesn't look at her.
CATHERINE: You took a polygraph after you shot those two people, didn't you? He looks at her now.
NICK: I passed.
CATHERINE: You see?  We're both innocent, Nick. He pulls up in front of her house on Divisadero, stops.  He sees the white Ferrari in the driveway.
NICK: How do you know all this stuff about me?
CATHERINE: You know all about me.
NICK: I don't know anything that isn't police business.
CATHERINE: (after a beat) You know I don't like to wear any underwear, don't you, Nick? They look at each other a beat.
CATHERINE: (smiles) Thanks for the ride. And she's out of the car.  He watches her as she hurries in the rain -- his eyes on her until the moment she opens the door and is inside.
LT. WALKER: What is all this "Nick" stuff -- Nick would you like a cigarette. Nick can you give me a ride.
NICK: She didn't ask me for the ride. She asked anybody.
LT. WALKER: And you volunteered. A BARTENDER stays behind the bar, but yells to him.
THE BARTENDER: Perrier, Nick?
NICK: Double Black Jack rocks, Harry.
GUS: (with concern) What you doin', son?
NICK: It's my first drink in three months. That okay with you, pop? (to Lt. Walker) She doesn't know me.  I never saw her before Gus and I talked to her.
THE BARTENDER: Here you go, Nick. He gets up, gets his drink --
NICK: Thanks, Harry. He sits back down.  He takes a big slug.  They watch him.
LT. WALKER: You sure?
NICK: I'm sure. He takes another big slug.
NICK: Now what?
LT. WALKER: What now what? Now nothing.  She passed the polygraph.  That's it.
NICK: She knew she could beat it.  That's why she asked to take it.
LT. WALKER: How the fuck do you know?  What is it with you and this broad anyway?
NICK: Come on, Phil.  You're not gonna let this slide.  What about her parents?  What about what else she's published?  At least we should get the stuff to see if we find anything else that's an amazing real-life coincidence.
LT. WALKER: Her parents died in an accident. I don't care what else she's written.  What are you -- a book critic?
NICK: How did they die?  Was there an investigation?
LT. WALKER: How you're saying she killed her parents?  Did she kill Bobby Vasquez, too?
GUS: Not unless she got up in the ring and turned into one mean sonofabitch.
LT. WALKER: Maybe she did, Gus.  Maybe she grew herself an Afro and learned a left hook and put shoe polish on her face.  Let's polygraph her again and ask her about it.
NICK: (casually) Fuck you, Phil.
LT. WALKER: Fuck you, too Nick. A beat, then --
NICK: (calls to the Bartender) Can you get me another double Black Jack, Harry. Gus looks at him with concern.  A man in his 50's -- LT. MARTIN NILSEN  is suddenly there.  He is overweight, florid.
NILSEN: (to Nick) Hey, shooter -- You back on the Black Jack, Shooter? He grins.  Nick doesn't look at him.
LT. WALKER: We're discussing a case, Marty.
NILSEN: I know that.  I had no doubt of that.
THE BARTENDER: Here you go, Nick. Nilsen takes the drink, hands it to Nick.
NILSEN: (grins) Double, huh, Shooter? Nick turns to him.  He's sitting in the booth; Nilsen is standing there.  Nick looks like he's barely restraining himself.
NICK: I'm off-duty, Nilsen.  You hear me?  I'm off-duty discussing a case.  Internal Affairs shouldn't have any trouble with that.  Maybe I should put in for overtime.
NILSEN: (grins) You do that, Shooter.  Why don't you send it to me?  I'll give it special attention. A beat, and then Nick gets up, faces him.
NICK: I'm gonna tell you once more, Nilsen -- Lt. Walker and Gus get up and hold Nick back. Beth Gardner, the police psychologist, is suddenly there.
BETH: What's the problem?
NILSEN: (grins) No problem, Doctor.  Here comes the Doctor just in time to save her patient.  Take care, Shooter. And he walks away.  Nick still looks like he wants to go after him.  Beth pulls him away from the booth.
BETH: You okay?
NICK: (after a beat) Yeah.
BETH: (smiles) You don't look so okay. Nick looks at her a beat.
NICK: (smiles) What are you doing here?
BETH: (smiles) Baby-sitting. (she shrugs) Rookie cop.
NICK: (smiles) What else is new? A beat.  He looks at her again.
NICK: You want to get out of here? She looks at him a beat.
BETH: (smiles) Yes. At the booth, Gus and Lt. Walker watch the two of them leave.
GUS: Maybe it's for old-time's sake.
LT. WALKER: (watches them go out) Sometimes I think he started banging her just to get himself off the hook with Internal Affairs.
GUS: (after a beat, smiles) He ain't that way.  He's got heart.
LT. WALKER: (smiles) Yeah.  I know.
BETH: Don't -- please, Nick -- We hear her dress RIP.  He kisses her harder -- we hear her panties RIP.  He gets the dress off, pushes his hands under her bra --
BETH: Please don't -- don't -- He puts his mouth to her shoulder, bites it -- as they move down to the floor.
BETH: What was she like?
NICK: Who?
BETH: Catherine Tramell.
NICK: (after a beat) She said what you said she'd say. She sits up, looks away.  He looks at her, puts his finger on the bite mark idly, gently.  A beat, and he kisses her shoulder gently, then lies back down.
BETH: I met her at Berkeley. He looks at her.
BETH: We were in some of the same classes.
NICK: (after a beat) Why didn't you tell me? She looks at him.
BETH: I'm telling you. They look at each other a long beat.
BETH: (with difficulty) You've never been... like that... before. He says nothing, looks away from her.
BETH: Why? He doesn't look at her a long beat, says nothing.
NICK: You're the shrink. She keeps looking at him.  He won't look at her.
BETH: You weren't making love to me. A beat; he looks at her.
NICK: Who was I making love to? She looks at him a long beat.
BETH: You weren't making love. They look at each other, a long beat, then away.  He lies back down.  Beth doesn't look at him, keeps sitting up.
NICK: (finally) I need a cigarette.
BETH: (after a beat) I thought you quit. He says nothing.
BETH: Top drawer in the foyer. (a beat) Get it on your way out. He looks at her; she won't look at him.
LT. WALKER: You look like dogshit.
GUS: (grins) He looks a little shrunk, that's all.
ANDREWS: (after a beat) We got a call from Berkeley P.D. There was a killing.  A professor. Icepick.  In his bed.  Multiple stab wounds.  1977.
NICK: (a thin smile) She was there, wasn't she?
LT. WALKER: University records say she was there. He and Nick look at each other a long beat, then --
LT. WALKER: (suddenly) Gus -- go over to Berkeley. Harrigan -- find out what else she's published.  Andrews -- get the files on her parents' accident. Carbon Beth on everything.  I want some psychological input on this Andrews and Harrigan go; Nick is left there with Gus.
NICK: What about me?
GUS: You're already gettin' psychological input, son.
LT. WALKER: (to Nick) Go stick your head in a tub of ice water. (a beat; then seriously) See where she leads.
NICK: (quietly) Shit.
GUS: (behind him) Ain't you go nothin' better to do than to come in here and jack off the damn machine?
NICK: (after a beat; lost in his thoughts) What are you doing here, Pop?
GUS: (grins) I came in here to jack off the damn machine. (a beat) One dead psychology professor. Noah Goldstein.  Dr. Noah Goldstein. And guess what?  He was her counselor. Nick looks at him a beat.
NICK: Was she ever suspect?
GUS: No, sir.  They never even got a statement from her. Nick sits back a long beat, his eyes off somewhere.
NICK: (slowly) Do you remember a case -- 1956 -- Hazel Dobkins?
GUS: (grins) Hell yes!  Couldn't get it outta my head for years.  Still can't. Nice little kids -- nice husband, wasn't porkin' around -- no financial problems.  One day -- outta the clear blue sky -- she does 'em.  All of 'em.  Used a knife. He got for a wedding present. Didn't even deny it.  Sweet as honey.  Said she didn't know why she done it. Nick just stares at him.
CATHERINE: Hi. He looks at her a beat, then --
NICK: Am I... disturbing you?
CATHERINE: No.  Come in. They have their eyes on each other.  A beat, and she turns to go in.
CATHERINE: I'm using you for my detective. In my book.  You don't mind, do you? She smiles.  He looks at her, expressionless.
CATHERINE: Would you like a drink?  I was just going to have one.
NICK: No, thanks. She goes to the bar.
CATHERINE: (smiles) That's right.  You're off the Jack Daniels too, aren't you? She is making herself a drink.  She takes the ice out and then opens a drawer and gets an icepick.  It has a fat wooden end. She uses the icepick on the ice, her back to him.  He watches her.
NICK: I'd like to ask you a few more questions.
CATHERINE: I'd like to ask you some, too. She turns to him, icepick in hand, smiles.
CATHERINE: For my book. She turns back to the ice, works on it with the pick.  She raises her arm, plunges it.  Raises it, plunges it.  He watches her.
NICK: (wary) What kind of questions? She puts the icepick down, pours herself a drink, turns to him.
CATHERINE: How does it feel to kill someone? He looks at her a long beat.
NICK: (finally) You tell me.
CATHERINE: I don't know.  But you do. Their eyes are on each other.
NICK: (finally) It was an accident.  They got in the line of fire.
CATHERINE: Four shootings in five years.  All accidents.
NICK: (after a long beat) They were drug buys.  I was a vice cop. A long beat, as they look at each other.
NICK: Tell me about Professor Goldstein.
CATHERINE: There's a name from the past.
NICK: You want a name from the present? How about Hazel Dobkins? She looks at him a long beat, sips her drink, never takes her eyes off him.
CATHERINE: Noah was my counselor in my freshman year. (she smiles) That's probably where I got the idea for the icepick.  For my book. Funny how the subconscious works. (a beat) Hazel is my friend.
NICK: She wiped out her whole family.
CATHERINE: Yes.  She's helped me understand homicidal impulse.
NICK: Didn't you study it in school?
CATHERINE: Only in theory. (she smiles) You know all about homicidal impulse, don't you, shooter?  Not in theory -- in practice. He stares at her a long beat.
CATHERINE: (quietly) What happened, Nick?  Did you get sucked into it? Did you like it too much?
NICK: (after a beat) No. He stares at her, almost horrified.
CATHERINE: (quietly) Tell me about the coke, Nick.  The day you shot those two tourists -- how much coke did you do? She steps closer to him.
CATHERINE: Tell me, Nick. She puts her hand softly on his cheek,  He grabs her hand roughly, holds it.
NICK: I didn't.
CATHERINE: Yes, you did.  They never tested you, did they?  But Internal Affairs knew. They are face to face.  He is still holding her roughly by the hand.
CATHERINE: Your wife knew, didn't she?  She knew what was going on.  Nicky got too close to the flame.  Nicky liked it. He twists her arm back behind her -- their bodies are pressed against each other -- their eyes digging into each other.
CATHERINE: (in a whisper) That's why she killed herself? He is twisting her arm, staring at her, pulling her against him.  We hear the DOOR behind them.  A beat, and he lets her go, turns away from her. Roxy stands there, staring at them.  Her hair is up.  She wears a black motorcycle jacket, a black T-shirt, and black jeans and cowboy boots.
CATHERINE: (brightly) Hiya, hon.  You two have met, haven't you? Roxy looks at Nick.  Catherine goes to her, kisses her briefly on the lips, stands there with her arm around her --both of them looking at Nick. He walks by them, opens the door to go, his face a mask.
CATHERINE: You're going to make a terrific character, Nick. He doesn't look at her; he's gone.
RECEPTIONIST: She's on the phone -- she'll be right with you, detective --He sweeps by her into Beth's inner office.  She hangs up when she sees the look on his face.
NICK: Who has access to my file?
BETH: What are you talking about, Nick -- what's wrong with you?
NICK: Who's got access to my goddamn file? She gets up -- he goes closer to her; she backs away from him.
BETH: Nobody. He goes closer to her; she backs away.
BETH: It's a confidential psychiatric record, it'd be illegal --She backs into a wall.  She looks very scared. He comes very close to her -- puts an arm behind her to the wall.
NICK: Don't, Beth.  Don't lie to me. She says nothing, looks scared.
NICK: (suddenly) It's Internal Affairs, isn't it?
BETH: No, Nick, please --
NICK: (loud, hard) Who?
BETH: (blurts it) Nilsen.
NILSEN: What do you want, Curran? He goes to him, picks him up by his lapels, slams him against the wall.
NICK: (out of control) You sold her the file, didn't you?
NILSEN: (scared) What are you talking about?
NICK: (out of control) What'd she pay you? He slams him against the wall again.  The glass EXPLODES behind them -- a chair comes into the room.  Nick is frozen, holding Nilsen by the throat against the wall.
ONE OF THE I.A. GUYS: Let him go, Curran.  Nice and easy. He looks back, sees two Internal Affairs men with their guns drawn, pointed at him.  A beat, and he lets Nilsen go.  He turns calmly and starts to walk out.
NILSEN: You're on sick leave, Shooter.  As of right now.  Pending the outcome of a psychiatric evaluation.
GUS: What's goin' down, son?
NICK: Nothin' (a beat) I'll be okay, pop. They look at each other a long beat.
GUS: No, sir.  You won't.  There's smoke off yonder on the horizon.  They're gonna want your badge.
NICK: (after a long beat) I got tired of being played with.
GUS: (after a beat) You sure got real conclusive ways of demonstrating that. They almost smile at each other, then --
NICK: (almost to himself) She knows where I live and breathe. She's coming after me.
GUS: (after a long beat) What is it you got between you?
NICK: (after a beat; to himself) I don't know.
GUS: Somethin', though. A beat, and then Nick looks at him.
NICK: Yeah. (a beat) Somethin'.
BETH: (behind him) I still have my key. He looks at her, looks away at the sitcom.
NICK: I don't want to see you, Beth. He keeps watching the sitcom.  A long beat.
BETH: (suddenly angry) Damnit!  Don't shut me out!  You owe me more than that? He goes to the TV, shuts it off.
NICK: I don't owe you anything; you don't owe me anything. (he looks at her) We went to bed -- what was it? -- ten or fifteen times? (he smiles) It wasn't memorable enough to carry any obligations.
BETH: (after a long beat) Sometimes I really hate you.
NICK: (smiles) Yeah?  Well why don't you find some friendly therapist and work some of that hostility out. (a beat) But take my advice.  Put a little more life into it than you usually do. A beat, and she suddenly hurls herself at him in absolute fury, trying to claw at his face.  He grabs her, blocks her.  They look at each other a long beat and then he lets her go. The emotion of the moment is gone now -- they turn away from each other.
BETH: (finally) I'm sorry... I don't usually... act like that. Nick looks at her a beat.
NICK: How could you let him have my file, Beth? A long beat, then --
BETH: (not looking at him) He was going to recommend your discharge a behavioral disability. I made a deal with him.  He could review the session notes himself. It was the only way I could keep you on the force. She looks at him.  He looks away from her.
NICK: You did it for me.
BETH: Yes.  I care about you.  I did it for you. He turns away from her.
NICK: (quietly) Get out of here, Beth. (a beat) Please? He goes to the Jack Daniel's, pours some more.  She looks at him pour it and turns to go.
NICK: Yeah. (a beat) Okay. He hangs it up.  He sits there a long beat, staring.  He looks disturbed.
GUS: One shot.  Close range.  Probably a .38 caliber revolver. Nick stares at Nilsen's body.  They watch him.
LT. WALKER: Give me your gun, Nick. A beat, and then Nick gives him his gun.  Walker smells it, shakes his head, gives it to one of the Internal Affairs men.
NICK: (to Walker) You think I --
GUS: I don't son, but I got the minority opinion.
NICK: Okay.  I went after him.  I lost my temper.
AN I.A. MAN: Do you have any evidence that he showed your psychiatric file to anyone?
NICK: (after a beat) No. Beth Gardner comes into the room.  They look at her.
AN I.A. MAN: We'll speak to you afterwards, Dr. Gardner. Nick gives her a look.
BETH: I'd like to sit-in if you don't mind.
THE I.A. MAN: I'd really rather --
TALCOTT: I don't see anything wrong with Dr. Gardner sitting-in if Detective Curran doesn't object. Nick looks at her, shrugs.
AN I.A. MAN: Where were you tonight?
NICK: Home. Watching TV.
AN I.A. MAN: All night?
NICK: Yeah.
AN I.A. MAN: Were you drinking? He looks at Beth.
NICK: Yeah, I was drinking.
AN I.A. MAN: When did you start drinking again?
NICK: (after a beat) A couple days ago.
BETH: I saw Detective Curran at his apartment around ten o'clock.  He was sober and lucid.  I asked him in my capacity as his departmental therapist about his altercation with Lt. Nilsen.  He expressed regret and displayed no hostility.
AN I.A. MAN: (to Beth) How long were you at his apartment?
BETH: About fifteen minutes.  I saw there was no reason for my concern and left. She and Nick look at each other.  He looks away and lights a cigarette.
AN I.A. MAN: There's no smoking in this building.
NICK: (after a beat) What are you gonna do -- charge me with smoking? It is the exact line that Catherine used.  A long beat.
LT. WALKER: I'll ask you once, Nick -- for the record did you kill him?
NICK: No. They look at him a beat.
NICK: Come on -- I'm going to storm into his office in front of everybody in the afternoon and then that night I'm going to kill him?  I'd have to be really dumb to do that.
AN I.A. MAN: Going after him before gets you off the hook for killing him that's your alibi.
LT. WALKER: Like writing a book about killing a guy gets you off the hook for killing him.
AN I.A. MAN: (to Walker) I don't understand.  What are you talking about?  What book?
LT. WALKER: (to Nick) Private joke.
NICK: I don't think it's funny.
GUS: (grins) Well, hell, son, it's got a certain ring to it, I'll say that.
NICK: (to Lt. Andrews) I'll get my stuff tomorrow.
NICK: Beth. She stops.  He catches up to her.  They walk down the flights together.  They speak quietly.
NICK: Thank you. She looks at him, smiles.  They keep walking down the steps.
BETH: It's the least I could do... considering I got you into this mess with those reports.
NICK: (smiles) No.  I mean it, thank you. She looks at him, smiles.
BETH: How do you know Catherine Tramell saw my reports?
NICK: She knows stuff about me that only you know.
BETH: (after a beat) She must really be something. (she smiles) From a clinical point of view.
NICK: What was she like in school?
BETH: I hardly knew her.  She gave me the creeps, though.  I don't know why.
BETH: Get some rest.  Promise? He nods.  She starts walking toward her car.
NICK: Beth.  I didn't mean what I said. About --
BETH: (smiles) Yes you did.  I'm a big girl.  I can handle it. She goes to her car.
ANDREWS: (after a beat) Take care, you hear?
NICK: (after a beat) Did you find out about her parents?
ANDREWS: You're on leave, man. (a beat) You're on psycho leave.  I'm talking to a possible whacko here.
NICK: You know I'm whacko, Sam, what'd you find? A beat, and Andrews opens the file.
ANDREWS: The boat blew.  There was a leak in the gas line.  There were two previous repairs.  There was a five-mil policy on both of 'em.  A real heavy investigation.  Zilch. Goose-egg.  It was an accident.
NICK: (after a beat) Thanks. He sees Lt. Walker looking at him.  He goes into Walker's office.
LT. WALKER: I.A.'s going to talk to you more about Nilsen.  They're handling the investigation, we're not. Stay in touch with Dr. Gardner, it'll help on the evaluation.
NICK: (after a beat) She killed him.
LT. WALKER: Beth?  Now you've got Beth killing people?
NICK: Catherine Tramell.  It's part of her game.
LT. WALKER: First you've got her buying your file.  Now you've got her killing Nilsen.  Forget her, willya?  Go someplace.  Sit in the sun.  Get away from this goddamn fog.  Get her out of your system.
NICK: You don't but it, do you?  She knew nobody would but it. (he smiles) She knew I'd say she did it.  And she knew nobody would buy it. Lt. Walker looks at him a long beat.
LT. WALKER: She's screwing with your head, Nick.  Pretty soon you're gonna look in the mirror and think you're seeing her.
CATHERINE: I heard about what happened.  What good's a shooter without his gun? She smiles.
NICK: (a beat) How exactly did you hear?
CATHERINE: (after a beat) I have attorneys.  They have friends.  I have friends.  Money buys you a lot of attorneys and friends.
NICK: (after a beat) I don't know about that I don't have any money I don't have any attorneys Gus is my only real friend.
CATHERINE: (smiles) I wasn't talking about real friends. Why doesn't Gus like me.
NICK: (after a beat) I like you.
CATHERINE: Do you?
NICK: (smiles) Yeah.  Would you like to come up and have a drink? She looks at him a beat.
CATHERINE: I didn't think you'd ask me. He looks at her a beat.
NICK: (smiles) I'm not that easy to figure. They start walking inside.  She walks ahead of him.  He watches her.  She turns suddenly.
CATHERINE: You're not easy to figure.  I'm just very good at figuring.
NICK: (after a beat) Don't get too cocky.
CATHERINE: Why not?
NICK: You can make a mistake.
CATHERINE: (smiles) Not me. And she turns, heads inside; he follows her.
CATHERINE: You should put some warmth into it.  You don't want it to reflect on your personality. She turns, smiles at him.  He looks at the bottle of Jack Daniel's; there's not much left.
NICK: Jack Daniel's okay?  It's gonna have to be.
CATHERINE: Fine.
NICK: Ice?
CATHERINE: (smiles) Please. There is a palpable tension between them. He takes the ice out, opens a drawer, takes out an icepick.
CATHERINE: Let me do that.  You like to watch me doing it, don't you? She smiles; a beat and he hands her the icepick.  She takes it, starts to us the icepick, her back to him.  He lights a cigarette.
CATHERINE: Can I have a cigarette, please?  I told you you'd start smoking again. He watches her working on the ice.
CATHERINE: Light it for me, will you? He does, steps to her.  She parts her lips -- he puts it on her lip, watches it.  Their eyes are on each other.
CATHERINE: Thank you. She works on the ice again, opens the cabinets for glasses.
NICK: What did you pay Nilsen?
CATHERINE: (doesn't look at him) Isn't he the policeman that you shot, Shooter? She makes the drinks.
NICK: What if I asked you not to call me Shooter?
CATHERINE: What if I call you Nicky?
NICK: (after a beat) My wife used to call me that.
CATHERINE: (smiles) I know, Nicky, but I like it. She hands him his drink, holds hers.
CATHERINE: Cheers.  My friends call me Catherine.
NICK: What did Bobby Vasquez used to call you?
CATHERINE: Bitch mostly, but he meant it affectionately.  You don't have any coke, do you?  I love coke and Jack Daniel's.
NICK: (after a beat) There's Pepsi in the fridge.
CATHERINE: (smiles) It's not the same thing, is it? They look at each other a long beat, their eyes very involved.
NICK: (quietly) Where's it going?  What do you want from me? Their faces are close together.
CATHERINE: Say -- "What do you want from me, Catherine?"
NICK: (after a beat, quietly) What do you want from me, Catherine? A beat, and she suddenly turns away.
CATHERINE: (brightly) I brought you something. She goes to her purse, takes a paperback book out of it.  We see it -- The First Time, by Catherine Smith.  He looks at it.
CATHERINE: (smiles) Aren't you going to thank me?
NICK: What's it about?
CATHERINE: A boy kills his parents.  They have a plane.  He makes it look like an accident. He stares at her.  A long beat, then --
NICK: Why does he do it?
CATHERINE: To see if he can get away with it. They look at each other a beat.
NICK: When did you write it?
CATHERINE: (after a beat) You mean did I write it before my parents died?
NICK: Yes.
CATHERINE: No.  I wrote it years afterwards. He watches her; she has turned away from him -- and then she turns back to him in a different mood.
CATHERINE: (smiles) You're not going to stop following me around now just because you're on leave -- are you?
NICK: (after a beat) No.
CATHERINE: Good.  I'd miss you. (a beat) You can get into trouble, though. You're not really a cop anymore.
NICK: I'll risk it.
CATHERINE: Why take the risk?
NICK: To see if I can get away with it. She looks at him; she smiles.
NICK: How's your new book?
CATHERINE: I'm getting deeper and deeper into my character. They look at each other a long beat.
CATHERINE: Thanks for the drink. He nods, say nothing as she goes to the door --
CATHERINE: I'm leaving the house around midnight.  In case you're going to follow me. (a beat) I'm going down to Johnny's club.
NICK: (after a beat) I'll meet you there. She looks at him a long beat; and she's gone.
CATHERINE: (smiles) Hi, Gus. He looks at him a long beat, and he goes upstairs, into Nick's apartment.
GUS: (after a beat) Forgive me for askin', son, and I don't mean to belabor the obvious, but why is it that you've got your head so far up your own ass?
NICK: (after a beat) She want to play?  Fine.  I can play.
GUS: (after a beat) Everybody that she plays with dies.
NICK: (after a beat, quietly) I know what that's like.
ROXY: (quietly) If you don't leave her alone, I'll kill you. He looks at her a beat, then turns --
NICK: Tell me something, Rocki.  Man-to- man. (he smiles) I think she's the fuck of the century, don't you? For a second, she looks like she's going to spring at him, then controls it and turns to go.
NICK: How long you been here, Rock?  You like to watch, do you?
ROXY: (after a beat, looks at him) She likes me to watch. And she turns and she is gone.
CATHERINE: (murmurs) Nicky. He looks at her.
NICK: (expressionless) 'Morning. She doesn't look at him -- he smiles slowly.  She doesn't smile and she doesn't seem to like his smile, either.  She walks along the beach.  He walks with her.  A long beat.
NICK: I think Roxy got jealous. She looks at him.  He looks like he is trying to hide a smile.
CATHERINE: (after a beat) She's seen me fuck plenty of other guys. That wipes the hidden smile off his face.  He looks at her, walks with her.  A long beat.
NICK: Maybe she saw something she didn't see before.
CATHERINE: She's seen everything before. She looks at him; he's smiling now.
NICK: She's never seen us before. He's serious.  She looks at him.  She smiles slowly.
CATHERINE: Did you think it was so special?
NICK: I told her it was the fuck of the century. He can't hide his smile anymore.  She says nothing, keeps walking.
NICK: (after a beat) What did you think?
CATHERINE: I thought it was a pretty good beginning. They look at each other.  They keep walking.  A long beat.
NICK: How about Roxy?  Is she a fuck to the century, too?
CATHERINE: (after a beat) Do you want her to join us sometime? He looks at her: she's serious.
NICK: I didn't mean for me -- I meant for you. She looks at him.
CATHERINE: I'm not as judgmental about women as I am about men. They keep walking.  A long beat.
NICK: How's your shoulder?
CATHERINE: Fine.  How's your back?
NICK: It hurts. She stops, looks at him.  A long beat.
CATHERINE: We're alike, you know. A beat, he looks at her --
NICK: Are you kidding?  You think this is my idea of morning-after conversation?
CATHERINE: (keeps walking) Do you want personal insights and adolescent secrets?  I don't do those. The keep walking.
NICK: You mean getting inside you isn't going to get me any deeper into your character. She looks a him.  A beat.  She smiles slowly.
CATHERINE: Not unless you confuse my character with my body parts. They keep walking.  A long beat.
CATHERINE: Were you frightened, Nicky? He looks at her.
NICK: (after a beat) I thought that business with the scarf was pretty nifty.
CATHERINE: I told you I had a vivid imagination. They look at each other.  A long beat.
CATHERINE: You shouldn't play this game.
NICK: (after a beat) I don't have a choice. Their eyes are into each other.
CATHERINE: (after a beat) You're in over your head.
NICK: (after a beat) I know. A long beat.  They look at each other.
CATHERINE: I've got a book to write.  I'll see you around, Shooter. A beat, and she walks away towards the house.  He watches her.
NICK: (grins) What is this place?  Hillbilly heaven? He glances around.
GUS: (loud) Where in the fuck you been?  I went over to your place. He is drunk, slurring.  Nick sees it.
NICK: Easy there, partner -- I wasn't there.
GUS: I went over last night, too.
NICK: (grins) I wasn't there last night, either. Gus takes a long, drunken look at him.
GUS: You... fucked her!  Goddamn dumb sonofabitch... You fucked her! Goddamn, you are one dumb sonofabitch --
NICK: (trying to quiet him) I'm not gonna get AIDS, pop --don't worry about it.  I always use a rubber.
GUS: (loud) I don't give a... flyin'... chili- bean... fart about AIDS!
NICK: (grins; quietly) You oughta use a rubber, pop.  You really should.
GUS: (loud) What in the hell for?  You think I'm gettin' any at my age?  I don't like blue-haired women.  I don't like 'em.
NICK: (straight) You don't like punk rockers?
GUS: (loud) Say what?
NICK: (grins) You feeling better?
GUS: (loud) I feel fine! Nick pours him more coffee; Gus guzzles it.
GUS: (loud) How could you fuck her? It gets some looks from the other people in her -- Nick shushes him, pours him more coffee.  He drinks it.
GUS: (quietly) You wanna die, son?  What is it -- those goddamn tourists -- you still feel so bad about that you're wigglin' your way into an icepi -- (suddenly louder) We got too many goddamn tourists comin' here anyway -- plenty more goddamn tourists where they goddamn came from. Some people here really give him the looks now.  Gus looks angrily away from them, drinks more coffee.
NICK: (after a beat; quietly) I'm not afraid of her.
GUS: (loud) Why the hell not?
NICK: I don't know.  I'm just not.
GUS: (loud) That's her pussy talkin' --He gets a real nasty look from a very fat woman eating a cheeseburger.  He winks at her.  The woman looks away from him, shaking her head.
GUS: (smiles; to Nick) It ain't your brain. They look at each other a long beat.  Gus drinks more coffee. He sits back, pulls his cowboy hat over his eyes. A long beat.
GUS: (quietly) I.A. done did a track on Lt. Martin D for Dickhead Nilsen.  They found a safety deposit box with fifty- thousand dollars in it, taken out three months ago, used that one time. He looks at the fat woman again -- leers at her obscenely. She looks away.
NICK: (after a long beat) It doesn't make sense.  She didn't know me three months ago.
GUS: Maybe it wasn't her that paid him. Maybe the money was for somethin' else.  How the fuck do I know? I'm just an old city cowboy tryin' not to fall outta his saddle. Nick looks at him and smiles a thin smile; he's not there, he's completely preoccupied.
NICK: You all right, pop?  You want me to drive you?
GUS: In that little pissant car of yours? Hell, no.  I ain't gettin' no back pain disability retirement -- I'm gettin' me a full pension and a real gold-plate Seiko watch.
NICK: Come on, I'll drive you in this thing.
GUS: You think I'd let you drive my Cadillac car?  I ain't lettin' no hear-up-his-ass person drive my Cadillac car. And he steps on the gas and ROARS out of there, forcing Nick to get out of the way.  Nick looks after him a long beat, shakes his head.
LT. WALKER: Tell me again.  I want to hear you say it again.
NICK: (after a beat; sheepish) It was an accident.
LT. WALKER: You're driving around North Beach for no particular reason and this car won't get out of the way --
NICK: I don't think she meant to go off the hill, do you?
LT. WALKER: (quietly) Don't fuck with me, Nick.  I don't need a reason to put your ass in a sling. He and Nick look at each other a long beat.  Andrews comes up to them with a piece of paper in his hand.
ANDREWS: Full name, Roxanne Hardy.  Last address -- Cloverdale, California. No priors, no convictions.  The car is registered to Catherine Tramell. Lt. Walker looks at Nick like he's going to kill him.  Nick looks calmly away.
LT. WALKER: You knew her, didn't you?
NICK: Gus and I talked to her at Tramell's house.  All we did was write her name down.
LT. WALKER: (after a beat) I told you to stay away from Tramell.
NICK: (after a beat; smiles) Yeah.  But you didn't tell me to stay away from her car. Walker looks at him in absolute disbelief.
AN I.A. MAN: I want you in Dr. Gardner's office at nine o'clock.  You're out of control, Curran.
NICK: (to the I.A. Man) Who are you guys gonna sell my file to this time? They stare at him.  He watches as Roxy's body is taken away.
BETH: Hello, Nick.  This is Dr. Myron and R. McElwaine.  They've been asked to consult with me on this evaluation. They shake hands with him.
DR. MYRON: Sit down, Nick. Nick gives him a look: What did he think he was going to do -- stand there? He sits down, looks at them.  A beat, as they look at him, then --
DR. MCELWAINE: (courtly) Nick -- when you recollect your childhood, are your recollections pleasing to you? Nick looks at them a long beat in disbelief.
NICK: (calmly, directly) Number one I don't remember how often I used to jack off, but it was a lot.  Number two I didn't get pissed off at my dad -- even after I was old enough to know what he and mom were doing in the bedroom.  Number three I don't look in the toilet before I flush it.  Number four I don't wet the bed and haven't for some time. Number five You can go fuck yourselves because I'm out of here.
BETH: What is your problem?  I'm trying to help you.  Why won't you let me help you?
NICK: I don't need any help.
BETH: Yes you do.  Something's on with you. (a beat) You're sleeping with her, aren't you? A beat, he stops looks at her, then keeps walking.
NICK: What is this interest you've got in her?
BETH: My interest is in you, not in her. She seduces people, she manipulates --
NICK: I thought you hardly know her.
BETH: I know the type.  I'm a psychologist. He stops, looks at her.
NICK: (after a beat) That means you manipulate people too, doesn't it, Beth?  You're a practicing psychologist -- that means you're better at it than she is. She looks at him a long beat.
BETH: (quietly) I feel sorry for you, Nick. A beat, and she turns and walks away.
NICK: Catherine! (after a beat) Catherine! Finally he sees her sitting by the window.  He walks over to her.
CATHERINE: (near tears) I should have known.  I came into the house when you were down on the beach.  She looked at me so strangely.  She left right after you. (a beat) I shouldn't have let her watch us. She wanted to watch me all the time.  She tried to kill you, didn't she?
NICK: (a beat) Did you like her to watch?
CATHERINE: (a long beat) Do you think I told her to kill You?
NICK: (softly, with intensity) No.
CATHERINE: (after a beat, near tears) Everybody that I care about dies. She is about to break into uncontrolable sobbing.  Nick puts his arms around her.
NICK: (soothing) It's OK.  It's OK.
CATHERINE: (quietly, almost begging) Make love to me.
NICK: (calmly, but seriously) Do you think she killed Johnny Boz?
CATHERINE: (surprised, startled) For what... to set me up?  She loved me she wouldn't frame me.
NICK: (a beat) Maybe she got jealous of Johnny Boz, too.
CATHERINE: (after a beat) No, she didn't... she never got jealous before... she got excited. (a beat) I don't have luck with women. There was this girl I met while I was in college.  I slept with her once.  She started following me around, taking my picture.  She dyed her hair, copied my clothes. Lisa something... Oberman.  It was awful. A long beat, he looks at her.
NICK: I thought you didn't do adolescent secrets.
CATHERINE: (after a beat) I never have before.
CATHERINE: (full of life) Isn't it just beautiful?  I love it here like this. He looks at her.
NICK: (cold) We're still playing games, aren't we? She looks hurt.
CATHERINE: No.
NICK: (cold) No?
CATHERINE: No more games, Nick.  I'm tired of playing games! They have their eyes on each other.
NICK: Then tell me about Nilsen. She turns away from him.  He watches her.
CATHERINE: You won't believe me.
NICK: Try me. A beat, she looks at him.
CATHERINE: I paid him $50,000 in cash for your psychiatric file.
NICK: (after a beat) When?
CATHERINE: About three months before I met you.
NICK: Why? She turns away from him.
CATHERINE: I'd read about your shootings in the papers.  I decided to write a book about a detective.  I wanted to know my character.
NICK: You paid $50,000 for your character?
CATHERINE: I would've paid more.  I wanted to know everything about you.  Then you came down here after Johnny got killed... it gave me a chance to get to know my character better.
NICK: (after a long beat) What about the other night. What about last night?  Was that to get to know your character?
CATHERINE: (after a beat) Maybe I'm losing interest in my book. Their eyes are on each other.
CATHERINE: Do you believe me?
NICK: (after a beat) I don't know.
CATHERINE: I'll convince you. And she kisses him slowly, with more and more heat, on the lips. The cordless phone on the deck table goes off.  It keeps RINGING.  She breaks finally from the kiss, picks it up.
CATHERINE: Hello? She listens a beat, then hands him the phone.
CATHERINE: It's Gus-who-doesn't-like-me. He takes the phone.
NICK: Catherine says you don't like her.
GUS: (on the phone) She's right.  You got an icepick in you yet?
CATHERINE: What did he say?
NICK: He asked if I had an icepick in me yet.
CATHERINE: (smiles) Funny.
GUS: (on the phone) You know that stuff they say about how you can judge people by their friends?
NICK: I don't believe it.
GUS: Why not?
NICK: (smiles) You're my friend, Gus. She watches him.
GUS: (seriously) I'm gonna make you believe in it, friend.
NICK: (after a beat) How old was she when this happened?
THE WOMAN: Fourteen.  We seal juvenile records until they're deceased.  That's why you didn't find it in your computer.
GUS: What was the motive?
THE WOMAN: She said she didn't know herself, just sort of did it on impulse. (she shrugs) The razor just happened to be there. They stare at her.
THE WOMAN: That's what she said.
NICK: I don't understand what the hell's going on here, pop.
GUS: Ain't that hard, son.  This young farmgirl, she got tired of all that attention goin' to her little brothers -- she fixed 'em.  Just like 'ole Hazel Dobkins fixed her whole family -- except young Roxy here, she didn't use a wedding present.  She used Daddy's razor.
GUS: It sure makes you wonder what they talked about when they set themselves down in front of the campfire at night.   You ever met any of her friends who hasn't killed somebody. Nick looks at him.
GUS: It musta beat your ordinary everyday girl talk. Nick get into his car, sits there a beat.
NICK: I'm not sure anymore she did it.
GUS: (after a beat) Which one you talkin' about now, son?  We know ole Hazel did it; we know young Roxy did it -- and the other one Well, hell, she's got that magna come lawdy pussy on her that done fried up your brain. Nick looks at him.
THE WOMAN: Anderson.  Jack W. Donald M.  I'm sorry.  No Lisa.
NICK: Did you check all four years?
THE WOMAN: Yes I did.
NICK: (in disbelief) Can you check again? She gives him a look, but punches it in again.
THE WOMAN: No Lisa Anderson, detective.
NICK: (after a beat) Can there be some mistake?
THE WOMAN: (straining patience) Only if you're making it. He looks at her.
CATHERINE: Hazel , this is Nick.  I told you all about him.  This is Hazel Dobkins.
HAZEL: (smiles) You're the Shooter, aren't you? How are you? He looks at her a long beat.
NICK: Fine.  Thank you. He looks at her sort of warily.
NICK: ( to Catherine) Can I talk to you a minute?
CATHERINE: (to Hazel) Honey, why don't you go in the car?  I'll be right there. The old woman starts going to the Ferrari.
HAZEL: (brightly) Goodbye, Shooter. Nick looks at Hazel a beat, then at Catherine.
NICK: You like to hang out with murderers or what?  Did you know Roxy --
CATHERINE: Of course I knew. He looks at her a long beat.
CATHERINE: (casually) Look.  Sometimes when I do my research, I get involved with people.  It happened with you, too. She smiles.  He looks at her, doesn't know what to say.
CATHERINE: Killing isn't like smoking.  You can quit. He looks at her What did she say?
CATHERINE: (preoccupied) I've go to go.  I promised to get her home by six o'clock.  She just loves "America's Most Wanted." America's Most Wanted?  She turns to go.
NICK: There was no Lisa Anderson at Berkeley when you were there. She stops, looks at him a beat.
CATHERINE: What were you doing, checking up on me?  What for? He says nothing.  A long beat, she looks hurt.
CATHERINE: (after a beat) Henderson. And she's gone.
NICK: Henderson.  Lisa Henderson.  With an H. He waits.
NICK: You do?
ANDREWS: I can get my butt kicked for this. You're not supposed to be in here.
NICK: It's not gonna take long, Sam. We see the computer screen.  The screen says LISA HENDERSON DMV LICENSE CHECK We wait and then we see the words 1983 RENEWAL --
NICK: Bring it up, will you, Sam? A beat, and then we see the license itself It is Beth Gardner on the photo.  Nick stares.
ANDREWS: Hey, that's Dr. Gardner, isn't it?
NICK: Bring 1976 up. A beat, and the license comes up.  We see a young Beth Gardner on the photo.  She has blonde hair. Nick stares.
NICK: You shouldn't leave your door open. She is startled.
BETH: (after a beat) I didn't.  Something's wrong with my lock. A beat, she looks at him.
BETH: (cold) What do you want, Nick?
NICK: (quietly) Tell me about Catherine. She looks at him a long beat, then turns away --
BETH: She told you, didn't she?
NICK: (after a beat) What did she tell me, Beth?
BETH: (after a long beat) I slept with her once in school. (a beat) I was just a kid.  I was experimenting.  It was just that one time. (a beat) She developed a... fixation... on me.  She styled her hair like mine. She wore the same kind of clothes I did.  It scared me. She looks at him, sees his look.
BETH: Isn't that what she told you? He looks at her a long beat.
NICK: She told me it was you.  You wore the same kind of clothes.  You dyed your hair blonde. A long beat as they look at each other.
BETH: I did dye my hair.  It didn't have anything to do with her.  I was a redhead for a while, too.
NICK: (after a beat) Did you know Noah Goldstein?
BETH: I had him in two classes.
NICK: You saw all the reports, Beth! Phil had you copied.  You never said anything!
BETH: (after a beat) What do I say -- Hey, listen, guys, I'm not gay, but I did fuck your suspect. (she turns away) I was embarrassed.  It's the only time I've been with a woman. She turns to him.
BETH: She's really sick you know.  Don't you know what she's doing?  She knows I went to Berkeley.  She knows I knew Noah.  She makes up that story about me.  She's handing you somebody who's obsessed with he her.
NICK: She didn't hand you to me.  She doesn't even know who you are. She told me about Lisa Henderson.
BETH: She knew you'd find out who Lisa Henderson is.  You're a good cop -- what did she do?  Tell you casually and make it seem irrelevant? (she smiles) Did she tell you in bed, Nick? That's how I'd do it. Nick looks at her a long beat.
NICK: Why did you change your name?
BETH: I got married. (a beat) He was on staff at the clinic.  I was down in Salinas.  It didn't... last long. He gets up.  He looks at her a long beat.
BETH: Nick -- Do you really think I... that I could kill someone... I never even met Johnny Boz.  What about Nilsen?  What possible motive would I have to kill him? He turns to go.
NICK: You should do something about this lock.
BETH: She's evil.  She's brilliant.  Be careful, Nick. He looks at her.
CATHERINE: (smiles) Do I scare you, Nick? He looks at her, doesn't say anything.
CATHERINE: (smiles) I just thought I'd surprise you. (a beat) What's the matter?
NICK: (after a beat) I found Lisa Henderson.
CATHERINE: Did you?  What's she doing? He looks at her, doesn't say anything.
CATHERINE: You're not going to tell me what she's doing. (a beat) I thought we weren't playing games anymore.
NICK: (after a beat) I did, too. (a beat) She told me it was backwards -- she said you even styled your hair the way she did. Catherine looks at him a beat, then smiles.
CATHERINE: And you believed her?  I even went down to the campus  police and made out a report about her. He just looks at her.
CATHERINE: You still think I kill people, don't you?
NICK: (after a beat) No.
CATHERINE: Liar. And she's gone.
CAMPUS COP: Who'd you say you were with?
NICK: Homicide.  San Francisco. He stops at a file, opens it.
CAMPUS COP: Don't you guys communicate over there?  You must be the same way we are. Nick doesn't get it.
CAMPUS COP: There was a report about Lisa Henderson -- January, 1977 -- the file's not here.
NICK: What do you mean it's not here?
CAMPUS COP: San Francisco P.D. Detective Nilsen. Internal Affairs.  You know him? Tell him we want it back.  He's had it a whole year. Nick says nothing.
GUS: So Nilsen had a report on her -- so what.  You don't know what the hell was in it?
NICK: Catherine told me what was in it.
GUS: If she's telling  you the truth.
NICK: Don't you get it, Gus?  If Beth killed Johnny Boz to frame Catherine -- she wouldn't want anyone to know what happened at Berkeley.  It gives her the motive to kill Nilsen.
GUS: How did she know Nilsen knew about it -- if it happened?
NICK: He was I.A.  He probably asked her about it. Gus thinks about it.
GUS: She'd have to be nuttier than a twenty-pound Christmas fruitcake. She's not the one who hangs out with multiple murderers -- your girlfriend is.
NICK: She's a writer -- it's part of what she does.
GUS: (irate) Goddamn writers -- all they do is use up trees and ruin people's eyes. (a beat) There's gotta be somebody at Berkeley who knows what the hell happened.
NICK: I know what happened.  Catherine told me what happened.
GUS: (after a beat, quietly) You got goddamn tweety-birds flutterin' around your head, that's what you got.  You think you're gonna fuck like minks, raise rugrats, and live happily ever after?  Oh, man.
NICK: How'd you get in here?
CATHERINE: I decided to give you one more chance. (a beat) I missed you.
NICK: You didn't not see me long enough to miss me.
CATHERINE: Did you miss me?
NICK: No.
CATHERINE: Come over here and tell me no. He walks up close to her.
NICK: No. She unzips her motorcycle jacket slowly.  She wears nothing underneath it.
NICK: That's below the belt. She reaches for him.
CATHERINE: Not yet it isn't. She pulls him close.
CATHERINE: But we're getting there.
NICK: I have to do some research tomorrow.
CATHERINE: I'm very good at research.  I'll help you.
NICK: No thanks.
CATHERINE: What are you researching?
NICK: I'm writing a book.
CATHERINE: (smiles) Really.  What are you writing about.
NICK: A detective.  He falls for the wrong girl.
CATHERINE: (smiles) What happens to them?
NICK: (after a beat) They fuck like minks, raise rugrats, and live happily ever after.
CATHERINE: (after a beat) It won't sell.
NICK: Why not?
CATHERINE: (after a beat) Somebody has to die.
NICK: Why?
CATHERINE: Somebody always does.
NICK: Hi, I'm looking for a Dr. Gardner?
ONE WOMAN: (after a beat) We don't have a Dr. Gardner on staff here.
THE OTHER WOMAN: Dr. Joseph Gardner?
NICK: (after a beat) Yeah.
THE WOMAN: He died -- about five or six years ago.
NICK: (after a beat) He was shot.
DETECTIVE: He was walking home from work. They only lived a coupla blocks from the clinic.  Somebody drove by and shot him.
NICK: What was the weapon?
DETECTIVE: .38 revolver.  Never recovered.
NICK: Were there ever any suspects?
DETECTIVE: No suspects, no motive.  Unsolved.
NICK: (after a beat) Was his wife ever a suspect?
DETECTIVE: (after a beat) I had another one of you guys down here from Frisco -- about a year ago -- he asked me the same question.  What's this about anyway?
NICK: Routine.
DETECTIVE: Yeah, he said it was routine too. Now it's two guys saying it's routine.
NICK: Do you remember his name?
DETECTIVE: (after a long beat) Nope, can't say that I do.
NICK: Nilsen?
DETECTIVE: That's him. A long beat, then --
NICK: Was she ever a suspect?
DETECTIVE: Nope. (a beat) There was some talk; it never panned.
NICK: What kind of talk?
DETECTIVE: The usual -- a girlfriend.
NICK: He had a girlfriend?
DETECTIVE: Nope. She did. (a beat) Like I say.  It never panned.
NICK: (after a beat, gets up) Thanks.
DETECTIVE: I hope I helped you out.
NICK: (after a beat) You did.
NICK: (smiles) Hi.  I missed you.  I finished my research. He moves toward her.  She moves away, kills her cigarette.
CATHERINE: I finished my book.
NICK: How did it end?
CATHERINE: (after a beat) I told you.  She kills him. They look at each other a long beat.
CATHERINE: (quietly) Goodbye, Nick. He stares at her.  A long beat.
CATHERINE: I finished my book. (a beat) Didn't you hear me?* (a beat) Your character's dead. (a beat) Goodbye. He stares at her.  He can't believe what she is saying.
CATHERINE: What do you want, Nick?  Flowers? I'll send you some flowers.
NICK: (after a beat) What is this -- some kind of... Joke? (a beat; he almost smiles) Are we playing games again?
CATHERINE: (after a beat) The games are over.  You were right. It was the fuck of the century, Shooter. He stares at her.
A VOICE INSIDE: Catherine? Nick looks -- Hazel Dobkins is there. Catherine still has her eyes on him.
CATHERINE: Right there. A beat, and then she turns to go inside.  Hazel Dobkins smiles slowly at him.
GUS: (excited) Catherine Tramell's roommate her freshman year.  I got a call from her.  I've been calling people who were in her dorm all day.  She must've heard I was trying to talk to her.  She says she knows all about Catherine and Lisa Henderson. She's over in Oakland.  You wanna come with me? Nick just stares ahead.
GUS: You look like you seen a ghost, son? Nick looks at him.
GUS: (excited) Johnny Boz's psychiatrist has an office on Van Ness.  Guess who he shares office space with?  Dr. Elizabeth Gardner. Nick doesn't even respond.  Gus looks at him.
GUS: What in hell's the matter with you? Nick doesn't say anything, stares ahead.
GUS: Where the hell you goin'?
NICK: (after a beat) I'm going with you.
GUS: She said alone -- suite 405.  It ain't gonna take long. A beat, and Nick gets back in the car.
NICK: (suddenly, screaming) Gus!
BETH: What are you doing here?
NICK: (screaming) Put your hands up! She stares at him.
NICK: (screams) Put your fucking hands up!  Don't move.
BETH: I got a message on my machine to meet Gus here.  Where is he? She smiles a strange smile.  She takes a step toward him.
NICK: (screams) Don't! (a beat) I know about your husband.  You still like girls, Beth?
BETH: What? She smiles strangely again, takes a step toward him.
NICK: (screams) Take your hands out of your pockets! She moves a hand in a pocket and moves towards him fast --
BETH: What is wrong with you? And he FIRES the gun.  She is hit in the chest, goes down. A long beat, and then he goes to her.  He gets down on the ground.  Her eyes are open.  He empties the pockets of the windbreaker -- first one, then the other the pockets are empty.
BETH: (in a whisper) I loved you. And she dies.
LT. WALKER: (upset) What made you think she had a gun? Nick says nothing; he looks like a zombie.
LT. WALKER: What the hell was she doing here? What was Gus doing here? Andrews yells to them from the stairway door.
ANDREWS: Lieutenant.
THE FORENSICS MAN: It's departmental issue.
LT. WALKER: (quietly) Jesus.
ANDREWS: Thirty-eight caliber revolver. Bottom drawer, bureau in the bedroom.
LT. WALKER: Have  ballistics check it for Nilsen. Harrigan comes out.
HARRIGAN: Lieutenant, you'd better come in here. Lt. Walker goes into the kitchen.  Nick follows him. There are several cops around a kitchen cabinet.  A drawer is open. Walker looks -- we look with him.  We see a copy of Love hurts, Catherine's paperback book, and a stack of photos of Catherine. Walker picks the photos up, goes through them -- we see shots of Catherine in college -- Catherine at a fight --Catherine with Johnny Boz -- Catherine with Roxy. He hands the photos to Nick. Nick stares at them.
LT. WALKER: I guess that's it.
LT. WALKER: She must've heard you on the stairway and dumped the stuff. Nick says nothing, stares off. A DETECTIVE comes over to them.
DETECTIVE: There was no suite 405 in that building.  Catherine Tramell's roommate in her freshman year is dead.  She died of leukemia two years ago. An INTERNAL AFFAIRS MAN comes over to them.
INTERNAL AFFAIRS MAN: Our files on Dr. Gardner show nothing about a police report in Berkeley -- nothing related to Salinas, either. A long beat -- the phone RINGS.  Andrews picks it up, listens.
ANDREWS: Thanks. He hangs up.
ANDREWS: Ballistics says the .38 we found in her apartment matches Nilsen. No registration.  They're checking with Salinas.  The icepick is the same brand and model as the Boz weapon. A long beat -- Nick just stares. Harrigan comes up to them.
HARRIGAN: We checked the tape machines at Dr.  Gardner's apartment and at her office -- both here and the one on Van Ness.  No message from Gus on any of 'em.  The one at her apartment was broken. (a beat) Johnny Boz's psychiatrist says he thinks he remembers Dr. Gardner and Boz meeting at a Christmas party at his house a year ago. A long beat.
LT. WALKER: (after a long beat, sadly) You just can't tell about people, can you.  Even the ones you think you know inside-out. He and Nick look at each other a beat.
CAPTAIN TALCOTT: Congratulations, Curran. Nick looks at him, expressionless.
A VOICE: (behind him) Hi. It is a whisper, almost a hiss.  He spins, fast.  Catherine stands there, pressing herself against a wall.  They look at each other a long beat.  She looks like she is almost in a trance.
CATHERINE: I heard about it... on TV. He looks at her, expressionless.  A long beat, their eyes are into each other.  She looks like she is almost shivering.
CATHERINE: I can't allow myself to care about you -- I can't allow myself to care -- I can't -- I can't -- She looks very emotional.  He moves towards her, puts his arms around her, holds her very close.
CATHERINE: (in a whisper) I don't want to do this -- please -- I don't want to do this -- I lose everybody -- I don't want to lose you -- I don't want to -- He presses her closer and closer to himself, holds her.
CATHERINE: What do we do now, Nick?
NICK: (after a long beat) We fuck like minks.  We raise rugrats.  We live happily ever after. We see her right arm go to the side of the bed and then over. He stares at the ceiling.
CATHERINE: I hate rugrats.
NICK: (after a long beat) We fuck like minks.  We forget the rugrats.  We live happily ever after. We see from an ANGLE to the left side of the bed now Her face is expressionless.  Her right arm dangles over the right side of the bed.  Her right hand is clenched.  Is she holding something in it against her arm? We see them from an ANGLE to the left side of the bed now: He turns his body away from her to put out his cigarette. We see her behind him slowly turning towards him and the CAMERA. A beat, and he turns towards her. They look at each other.  A long beat as the SONG gets louder. We see them in CLOSEUP.  We don't see her right arm.
CATHERINE: (in a whisper) I love you. A beat, and he kisses her.  The CAMERA BACKS AWAY from them slowly to the right side of the bedroom as they kiss, and we --
