BEASTS OF THE SOUTHERN WILD: Written by Lucy Alibar & Benh Zeitlin
WINK: Get your pants on, man! Wink kills a beer and sends it out the hole in the wall into a basketball hoop attached to a fishing net that stretched 15 feet down to the ground. The net is overflowing with beer cans.
WINK: Feed up time! Feed up! Hushpuppy, now wearing pants and a slightly more proper T- shirt, comes running down the oil barrels to her house. She echoes her Daddy.
HUSHPUPPY: Feed up time! Feed up!
WINK: Share with the dogs. Hushpuppy rips off a piece of chicken and flings it to a filthy chihuahua with no hair on the back half of its body. This is WINDELL, in spite of her circumstances, quite a handsome young pup.
WINK: Ain't that ugly over there? He takes a long pull on his beer.
WINK (CONT'D): We live in the prettiest place on earth. Hushpuppy looks over the wall to the Dry Side. It's an endless sprawl of oil processing power plants without a tree or bird in sight. This is the engine that runs the Northern world.
6: Six babies, each with a racing number pinned to their diaper, are placed by their enthusiastic mammas at a starting-line on a track marked by two adjacent crowds of onlookers. Bets are flying between the spectators as if they're about to watch a cock-fight.
7: Hushpuppy focuses in on a tiny fish, wriggling and sucking it's last breaths of air.
WOMAN'S VOICE: Meat. A fearsome, uncompromising leader, sexy like a lady bullfighter, peeks at Hushpuppy over a mass of squirming crawfish. This is MISS BATHSHEBA (36). She points to three students, pushing their heads with her finger, each time announcing:
MISS BATHSHEBA: The twelve students follow her through a maze of creatures caged in mason jars, basins, and boxes with breathing holes- her educational tools.
10: We CUT CLOSER to overwhelming white light accompanied by intermittent FROZEN CRACKS that build in frequency and volume.
HUSHPUPPY: Daddy? Feed-up time. Feed-up? Hushpuppy bangs on the door of the shacko.
HUSHPUPPY (CONT'D): Daddy? Nothing. She goes inside. The house is empty. She checks the Shacko for food. Nothing.
HUSHPUPPY: Like some sort of animal call, she SHRIEKS.
HUSHPUPPY: Daddy? Daddy? No response.
MISS BATHSHEBA: You need a ride, boo?
HUSHPUPPY: My Daddy's coming to pick me up.
MISS BATHSHEBA: How about food or something, you hungry?
12: Hushpuppy shakes her head `no'. Miss Bathsheba's doesn't totally believe her, but she's not the type to coddle either.
MARIETTA'S VOICE: Hi my sweet baby.
HUSHPUPPY: Hi momma. MARIETTA, Hushpuppy's imaginary, invisible mamma, is speaking from the basketball jersey chair. Marietta functions like an imaginary friend- Hushpuppy is the only one who can see her. Hushpuppy takes the pot, puts it on the stove.
MARIETTA'S VOICE: Hushpuppy what you doing there? You being good like I taught you?
HUSHPUPPY: Yes, mamma. Hushpuppy turns on the gas. Hushpuppy goes through her safety precautions: oven mitts, a helmet, she flips the table and hides behind it. She aims the stove lighter: a flame thrower made from a cigarette lighter and a can of spray deodorant. A spray of flames ignites the stove in a FIREBALL.
CUT TO:: MOMENTS LATER. Hushpuppy behind the bubbling stove. She ties on an apron and sways to the music. She is dressing like her mom. Marietta's Voice sings to her.
MARIETTA'S VOICE: You're good, you make me happy / you're good, you make me happy.
HUSHPUPPY: That's pretty Mamma.
MARIETTA'S VOICE: You're pretty Hushpuppy. Hushpuppy stares into the floating islands of cat food frying in fat, which in her POV is a surreal churning vision, like the bubbling lava at the center of the earth. She's SHOCKED out of her vision by a YOWLING CAT being flung across the yard.
HUSHPUPPY: Daddy! Daddy, Daddy! Wink doesn't turn to acknowledge her as he trudges across the field toward his Shacko. He's wearing a hospital patient's smock and no shoes, it seems he checked himself out.
HUSHPUPPY (CONT'D): I learned lots of stuff while you gone. If I drink all this here I can burp like a man. Hushpuppy gulps down water, all of it. Wink keeps walking. Hushpuppy BURPS like a man, but he doesn't turn around. Hushpuppy stops to examine the situation. Something's not right here.
HUSHPUPPY (CONT'D): How come you wearing a dress? Hushpuppy tugs his patient's smock and he shrugs her off violently.
WINK: Leave me alone, Man. She sees his hospital I.D bracelet still on.
HUSHPUPPY: You wearing a bracelet too?
WINK: Go in your house, you wouldn't understand.
HUSHPUPPY: I wanna come in your house.
15: Hushpuppy whacks Wink's butt.
HUSHPUPPY (CONT'D): Wink fakes like he's gonna smack her.
WINK: Hushpuppy tears off. Wink storms into the Shacko in the Backo.
WINK: Hushpuppy and makes a runs for it, flying out the door.
WINK (CONT'D): Don't you run away from me. I swear to GOD Hushpuppy!
HUSHPUPPY: I'm tearing off!
WINK: You ain't tearing off nothin', I'll bust your ass!
HUSHPUPPY: I'm tearing off just like my Momma.
WINK: Come on! Wink tried to yank her toward home and Hushpuppy refuses. She digs her heels in.
WINK (CONT'D): See what happens. See what happens to you! Hushpuppy hooks her leg around a tree and holds on. Wink slaps Hushpuppy and she falls face down. He looks away, disgusted with himself.
WINK (CONT'D): See what you making me do? You're killing me! He reaches down and tries to pick her up.
WINK (CONT'D): Get up and now come on. Hushpuppy jumps up on her own.
HUSHPUPPY: I hope you do die! And after you die, I come to your grave and eat birthday cake all by myself! Hushpuppy punches Wink in the heart and suddenly EVERYTHING GOES QUIET, as if all the insects in the forest have hushed. All at once, we hear-- A HUMAN HEART, beating until there is a SONIC BOOM, an earsplitting CRACK of glacial ice. Hushpuppy turns toward the sound. When she turns back Wink's face has transformed, wrenches with fear and pain. Wink keels over clutching his arm. Hushpuppy stares, her breath accelerating. Wink's eyes roll back in his head, he begins to seizure.
18: ANOTHER GLACIAL CRACK rings out. The SPLITTING builds to a DEAFENING ROAR. She covers her ears.
HUSHPUPPY: Momma!? Momma!? MOMMA!? I think I broke something.
HUSHPUPPY: Miss Bathsheba! Miss Bathsheba! My Daddy fell down! Miss Bathsheba takes Hushpuppy's hands as she tries to catch her breath to speak. Clutched in her hand is the hospital bracelet that Wink had been wearing. Bathsheba turns over the diagnostic bracelet and reads it, her eyes widen in recognition and alarm.
MISS BATHSHEBA: It's gonna be OK baby. Bathsheba hands Hushpuppy the medicine jar.
BOY: The storm's coming! The storm's coming!
LITTLE JO: Look at these assholes running around all over the damn place. C'est la vie assholes!
WINK: I know y'all with me. Y'all doin' the storm.
LITTLE JO: Lady Jo's ain't never closed honey.
WINK: That's what I'm talking about. Walrus my big man, you staying?
WALRUS: Wrong number buddy. I'm outta here as soon as I finish my beer. Wink dismisses him with a wave of his hand.
WINK: You ain't goin nowhere.
WALRUS: This ain't no sneeze comin' out the gulf. I'm gone brother.
WINK: I'll see you tomorrow Walrus. Lookit there, Winston's with me. WINSTON is passed out on the stairs.
WINK (CONT'D): What you doing about the storm Winston? Without opening his eyes, Winston raises an umbrella over his head. Wink laughs.
WALRUS: Hey! It's Hushpuppy.
EVERYBODY: Hushpuppy! Hushpuppy's here. They burst into a round of drunken applause.
WINK: Hushpuppy? Where you been?
HUSHPUPPY: What happened to y-
WINK: Shut-up! He lifts her up by the britches and carries her away.
WINK (CONT'D): You don't talk!
WINK: This side is still Wink's house. No toys, and no girl stuff over here. Wink pushes charred toys from Hushpuppy's house across the line.
WINK (CONT'D): So if I want to come over that side and smack you in the face, that's against the rules. So there's a plus for you.
23: Hushpuppy is not able to see the bright side here.
WINK (CONT'D): Now come on down here and get in the boat, man. He points to a trunk on the floor. Hushpuppy hops down and gets in. Wink sits on his air mattress.
WINK (CONT'D): If the water get real high, we gonna float to the top and we gonna bust through the roof and we gonna ride away, okay? Wink puts a pair of mismatching water wings on her.
WINK (CONT'D): You never NEVER take these off. I'm your Daddy, and you do what I tell you to do, because it's my job to keep you from dying, ok? So sit back and just listen to me... Close your eyes and go to sleep.
WINK (CONT'D): Why you starin' at me like that? I can't sleep with you starin' at me like that. Wink paces the floor.
WINK (CONT'D): Listen. You need to understand, you're a kid and I'm a man. She doesn't understand.
WINK (CONT'D): What, you scared? Hushpuppy nods. THUNDER BOOMS and Wink is the one who flinches.
WINK (CONT'D): Don't be scared, no storm can't beat no Doucet. I'm gonna show you. You watch. But he can see she's still scared.
WINK (CONT'D): I'm'll show you! We Doucets we're not scared of no damn storm. Wink grabs a bottle of moonshine and climbs down the hatch in the floor into the storm. Hushpuppy runs to the window and peeks out. OUTSIDE. The frenzy of the hurricane propels Wink at full sprint through the 100 MPH winds. He tears his clothes off and guzzles moonshine as branches fall all around him.
WINK (CONT'D): Look at me! Look at me Hushpuppy! Watch me kick butt. Wink fires his shotgun at the heavens.
WINK (CONT'D): Hell yea! I'm right here! I'm right here I ain't going nowhere.
HUSHPUPPY: Mamma!? MAMMA!?
WINK: Yo Winston? No one answers. They push off.
WINK: Some day when I'm gone, you gonna be the last man in the bathtub. You have to learn how to feed your house. Wink goes to the edge of the turck and sticks his hand in the water.
WINK (CONT'D): Now, stick your left hand in this water, stick it in there. Hushpuppy puts her right hand in the water.
WINK (CONT'D): Ok, what you do is you hold your hand steady and you just wait for your fish to come. You gotta ball your fist up, this is your punching hand. Ball your fist up in case you have to whack it when they come up. Wink pulls a Catfish out with his bare hand.
WINK (CONT'D): WHOOOOO YEA! Whooo lord, look what we got. I gotcha. Say "I gotcha!"
HUSHPUPPY: I gotcha! Wink slams the fish down on the floor of the Turck and pins it.
WINK: Yea! Hold him down! Now, you hold it down like this, and whack him good with your fist. Wink pins the fish and punches it in the face.
WINK (CONT'D): Go ahead whack him! You whack him good. Hold him like that and whack him! Hushpuppy pins the fish. She tries to whack it and it cuts her.
HUSHPUPPY: She hides her cut hand from Wink.
WINK: You OK? That's all a part of it.
28: Hushpuppy winces in pain.
WINK (CONT'D): You wanna try it again? Hushpuppy shakes her head no, trying not to cry.
WINK (CONT'D): Come on. One more time.
HUSHPUPPY: Daddy? Wink's hacking cough, which has gotten worse since last we heard it, fills the room. Hushpuppy tries to shake him awake. Hushpuppy looks through the gap in his shirt. On Wink's chest, surrounding his heart, a corroded spider web of purple bruises shows through the skin, like varicose veins covering his entire heart. Hushpuppy's eyes go wide with horror.
HUSHPUPPY: Mamma? Is that you? The beacon does not respond.
HUSHPUPPY (CONT'D): I've broken everything.
WALRUS: Holy bowlegged Sarah!
WINK: Hey partner! Hey Walrus! Wink pulls in the Turck and paddles to rescue the thrashing drunkard. They leverage Walrus aboard and lay him out on deck.
WALRUS: (gauging his surroundings) I musta passed out. Wink starts chuckling silently. His chuckle builds to a laugh.
30: Little Jo is sprawled on the floor under a table. Is she dead or just wasted?
WINK: Little Jo! She awakes with a start and bangs her head on the table.
LITTLE JO: Wink!? Wink and Walrus run to help her up.
(TO WINK): Wink, you get me. They both lift her.
WALRUS: Sorry Peter T. Peter T enters from the Bathroom.
WINK: Peter T, my man! I knew you wasn't gonna leave me man! Peter T speaks in his polite, level-headed, soft sweet voice.
PETER T: Oh no, oh no.
WALRUS: (re: Peter T) That is one classic dude right there.
WINK: Peter T, you are a titan! Glad you stayed man! RHHAAAA!
31: Wink jiggles Peter T's ample belly. Peter T giggles with glee. Wink puts one arm around Walrus and the other around Peter T. He smiles to Hushpuppy. She laughs too, the first smile in quite some days.
WALRUS: If I had wings, I know I could have flown in that bad boy. But I would have probably bounced off a tree, or... Hushpuppy lays on the table in pile of empty crab shells.
WINK: Hushpuppy! Did I ever tell you the story of your conception? The bar crowd chuckles.
WINK (CONT'D): When me and Hushpuppy's Mamma first met we was so shy, we used to sit around, and drink beer, and smile at each other. One day we was so shy we just napped... Wink's voice FADES DOWN as Hushpuppy's fantasy takes over. She closes her eyes.
32: A topless woman steps in front. Sweat beading on her perfect shoulder blades, down her perfect, back ending in a pair of boys' underpants- just like Hushpuppy's. Throughout Hushpuppy's vision, we never see Marietta's face, it's always covered, shot from the back, or out of frame. Marietta cocks the shotgun with one hand, Terminator 2 style. Lowers it on the gator... BLAM. Wink sits up in SLOW MOTION- her panties, and her long naked legs are covered with gator blood. She turns to Wink, her head ABOVE FRAME. CLOSE UP on her eye. She winks.
WINK: ...and Hushpuppy popped into the universe maybe four minutes later. He empties the glass, sufficiently drunk now.
WINK (CONT'D): I got it under control. Wink looks away, lost in his own fantasy.
34: The horse holds Hushpuppy's gaze. She hears it's strong, resilient HEARTBEAT. They are one and the same.
HUSHPUPPY: Miss Bathsheba!?
WINK: Come on lets go! Time to eat! Come on children, feed up time! He sends a feast sliding across the floor under the table, where Joy, T-Lou, and Lizard dig in. Wink has decorated the bar with all the waterlogged relics of the Bathtub.
35: The room is a shrine of people's chairs, umbrellas, clothing. We're late in the game, and the party has descended into utter debauchery. Jean raises a glass.
JEAN BATTISTE: To the last of the food!
WALRUS: To the last of the water!
LITTLE JO: You ain't drinkin' no water. Miss Bathsheba pour shots and toasts.
MISS BATHSHEBA: Yea, tastes like more, alright! Hushpuppy struggles to peel her shrimps, sitting on top of the table.
WALRUS: When the water goes down, I'm gonna French kiss the dirt!
MISS BATHSHEBA: Water's not goin' down man.
WINK: Nah, that's my beautiful place under there.
MISS BATHSHEBA: Man you know they got plenty of salt coming into that water, everything beautiful is gone. Trees are gonna dies first, then the animals, then the fish.
WINK: I got it under control.
36: Hushpuppy picks up a crab. She tries to pound it open, tries yanking on a leg. She can't shell it.
JEAN BATTISTE: Come on Hushpuppy, come over here lemme show you how. Hushpuppy sits down next to Jean, a good pupil.
WINK: NO! Hushpuppy-- Wink POUNDS the table. And the party falls suddenly silent. Wink pushes the utensil away. He grabs a crab, opens it in three virtuosic hand motions. Grease and spice explode everywhere and Wink sucks the face of the crab clean. It is beautiful to watch. He slams a fresh crab in front of Hushpuppy.
WINK (CONT'D): Beast it! Hushpuppy looks to Miss Bathsheba for guidance.
MISS BATHSHEBA: You heard your Daddy. Beast it.
37: Hushpuppy pulls on the crab shell with all her might. She doesn't have the power.
EVERYONE: The kids jump out from under the table and chant. Hushpuppy is turning blue, her eyes bulge with effort...
WINK: Yea! You see what kinda family we got?! We got feeling!
38: Jean Battiste, cackling wildly, hauls a thrashing goat onto a floating animal pen. Chicken coops, snake cages, a pig pen are stacking precariously.
HUSHPUPPY: We got enough animals to eat until the water goes down. Rafts are lashed to the sides of the school. Every floating structure left in town is hauled in and added to the Ark. Peter T ties on a floating vegetable garden. In WIDE we see what looks like a small village of floating structures forming.
MISS BATHSHEBA: (teaching a lesson) Come here, like this. She takes Hushpuppy's hand and places it on Lizard's chest. She moves her hand in a circular motion.
39: Lizard's breathing returns to normal, and she sits up peacefully. Hushpuppy is awestruck. Bathsheba gets to her feet.
WINK: (to the water) Come on fishes, where y'at? Wink empties his net- nothing but a pile of carcasses. He tips it back into the water. Wink pulls himself to the edge and sticks his head under to look for fish. Hushpuppy looks at him with an air of doubt for the first time. Wink looks ridiculous, a dead fish drifts off his head.
HUSHPUPPY: You wanna leave the Bathtub, Walrus?
WALRUS: Nah. Wink pulls his head back up.
WINK: I heard that. Hushpuppy fidgets guiltily.
WINK (CONT'D): Nobody's leaving the Bathtub! You don't know nothing! Wink lowers his net back in the water.
WINK (CONT'D): This water gonna kill us here. We gotta do something `bout this. I ain't starvin' to death while them people go grocery shopping up there.
41: Hushpuppy wakes hearing SHIFTING and a SNAP behind her. Peter T is uncapping a shotgun shell and pouring black powder into a small jar. She looks out the window where Jean Battiste is unhooking a propane container from Miss Bathsheba's burner. He opens her chest freezer and hefts out a 12-foot garfish, dropping the container in the water.
JEAN BATTISTE: Shit! Wink sneaks up and whispers to Hushpuppy.
WINK: Boss, Daddy's gotta take care of something. Hushpuppy is instantly concerned, she's heard this line before, and it always leads to trouble.
WINK (CONT'D): I'm gonna fix everything back how it was.
HUSHPUPPY: Everything gonna go right back?
WINK: Hell yeah, we gonna win. Wink pounds his chest in solidarity. Hushpuppy matches his pound, but without confidence.
WINK (CONT'D): Boss, anything go wrong, Walrus is Daddy. Wink and Hushpuppy look Walrus-- the face of doddering drunken bewilderment. A goat licks him. Hushpuppy is not comforted.
WINK (CONT'D): You're gonna be the king of the Bathtub, I promise that. Wink can see he's getting nowhere.
WINK (CONT'D): Just sit here I'll be right back. The DOOR CLOSING wakes Miss Bathsheba up. She scans the room, noticing the three missing people.
WALRUS: (an unconvincing lie) I think they be gone. I-I really can't say where.
MISS BATHSHEBA: Walrus, don't make me slap your ass! They go to the levee!? Walrus is intimidated into silence.
WINK: Peter T, don't hold onto me, hold onto the boat. You gonna be fine. Jean Battiste duct tapes fireworks around the bomb: a propane tank with an igniter made from a battery and a pouch of black powder. He inserts the bomb into the stomach cavity of a giant garfish carcass.
43: Wink shoves two propane tanks inside the belly of the garfish. He hands a rope attached to the igniter to Peter T.
WINK (CONT'D): Peter T, you hold the trip-line.
PETER T: (Soft and sweet) Ok then.
WINK: Just don't pull `til I say.
PETER T: Ok then.
WINK: You can do it. I have complete faith in you.
PETER T: Ok. Jean Battiste is hesitant. Wink gives Jean Battiste a confident nod.
JEAN BATTISTE: Lock and load. Jean Battiste carefully unravels the string that leads to the fuse. He shoves the igniter down the mouth of the garfish.
WINK: Peter T hand me the- He looks, Peter T has both hands on the Turck.
WINK (CONT'D): Peter you didn't drop the trip- line?
PETER T: No I did not. Peter T thinks a moment.
JEAN BATTISTE: Oh, Peter T.
PETER T: I'm sorry. Wink dunks under water.
MISS BATHSHEBA: Here's how we do with wild animals.
WINK: AHH! Get off me woman! I'm trying to save the Bathtub Hushpuppy watches the struggle in hiding.
45: Bathsheba wrenches the rope out of Wink's hand and chucks it. The igniter rope lands in front of Hushpuppy under the net pile. She grabs it. She reels it in.
MISS BATHSHEBA: Get in the Boat! I'm hauling you're ass back home, little boy. Jean Battiste swims out of hiding.
JEAN BATTISTE: Wink!?
WINK: Jean Battiste, get the trip line! Suddenly, Hushpuppy pops out from under the nets, holding the rope taught. She stumbles and almost sets if off by accident.
MISS BATHSHEBA: Hushpuppy!?
JEAN BATTISTE: She got it! Pull! Pull!
MISS BATHSHEBA: No! Hushpuppy! Hushpuppy, contemplates in an eerie peace. The screaming chorus FADES and she is alone in her quiet, eyes darting between Bathsheba and Wink. Courage and certainly clench inside her her. You listen to your Daddy. She pulls the rope.
46: Debris propels Hushpuppy backwards. Her quiet resumes as she lands on the deck of the boat in slow motion. She watches in a daze as smoke, water, and flaming dust cycles above her. All the beauty of the universe.
47: He hammers nails wearily. His strength is sapped. He HACKS out bile.
HUSHPUPPY: Mamma!? Nothing.
HUSHPUPPY (CONT'D): Mamma where you at!? As if in response, we hear a HELICOPTER LOUDSPEAKER.
PILOT: This is a mandatory evacuation area, you can no longer live here. Everyone in this area, has to leave. I repeat....
WINK: Wink spews up an explosive cloud of medicine.
WINK (CONT'D): God damn! Wink grabs her medicine jar and threatens her with it.
WINK (CONT'D): What you doing!? He smashes it against the wall.
WINK (CONT'D): What the hell's wrong with you! Hushpuppy is so upset she doesn't know what to do. She screams in anger.
HUSHPUPPY: Raaaaaaaaaaaaahhhh! Raging, Hushpuppy breaks everything she can get her hands on, ruining everything Wink's reassembled, tipping shelves, pans, walls. She grabs a fishing pole and starts bashing Wink's grill over and over.
WINK: You wanna throw things? Come on! I can do that too. You want to play that game? Let's throw stuff! Wink joins in, breaking stuff too, channeling all his anger into the destruction. Wink throws himself into the wall. It breaks off and dumps a series of shelves all over the floor.
49: Hushpuppy can't believe it. Suddenly it's cathartic, they start throwing objects at each other and laughing.
WINK (CONT'D): Come on! Come on! Wink pegs her in the face with a stuffed animal and she grins. Hushpuppy throws a pillow!
WINK (CONT'D): Hushpuppy throws a shoe.
WINK (CONT'D): Hushpuppy and Wink destroy everything in the house. Something goes off in Wink chest. He grabs his heart and collapses on the floor. Hushpuppy realizes something's not right. She throws a life- jacket at her father. Wink continues to force a smile at her. Hushpuppy won't return the smile.
HUSHPUPPY: Man. You think I don't know. Hushpuppy's bottom lip starts quivering. Wink's smiles disappears.
WINK: Hey. No crying. Don't you cry man. Don't you cry! He threatens her with a shoe. Hushpuppy hides behind an overturned chest.
WINK (CONT'D): HEY! Don't cry damn it! Wink hangs his head and catches his breath against the wall.
WINK (CONT'D): Shit. He pull himself to his feet and grabs a bottle of moonshine. He sets up two cups on the table.
WINK (CONT'D): Come on get a drink. Wink pours Hushpuppy a shot. Hushpuppy sips. Winces. Looks suspiciously at her father. Sips again. Wink takes one straight from the bottle.
WINK (CONT'D): This counts as I'm sorry for a whole buncha things. Lord.
HUSHPUPPY: You gonna be gone?
WINK: What? No!
HUSHPUPPY: You gonna leave me alone?
WINK: I ain't gon' leave nothing.
HUSHPUPPY: Cause if you be gone, I be gone too.
WINK: Hushpuppy, that is not how it works.
HUSHPUPPY: I will. Sometimes in the bed I start shaking and can't stop. I got what you got.
WINK: No man. That's just a side effect of being a stupid little girl.
HUSHPUPPY: I ain't gonna be dead?
WINK: No. You? No! You gonna live a hundred years more. You know what, show me the guns. Hushpuppy shoves Wink.
WINK (CONT'D): Show me them guns man. Wink clears everything off the table with one sweep.
WINK (CONT'D): Show me the guns! Guns! guns! guns! guns! guns! Hushpuppy flexes her biceps. She begins to chant, fierce and
HUSHPUPPY: Guns! Guns! Guns! Guns!.....
WINK: Guns man, give to me! Guns! Guns! Wink holds up his hand to arm-wrestle. They SCREAM in tandem as Hushpuppy pins him hard.
WINK (CONT'D): Ooooo, Hushpuppy you the man. Who the man?
HUSHPUPPY: I'm the man.
WINK: Who the man!?
HUSHPUPPY: I'm the man!
HUSHPUPPY: I'm THE MAN!!!!!!!
WINK: Wink is overcome with love. It's too much for him to bear.
WINK (CONT'D): Fuck this table! In a violent euphoria, Wink grabs the table and hurls it across the room. This scares Hushpuppy. She stares silently at her wild animal father, longing for something more than rage. Wink takes a step toward like he's going to comfort her, then stops, turning back.
WINK (CONT'D): I gotta lay down hear? I gotta be strong. Don't be scared. Wink lays down in the corner. Hushpuppy doesn't go to bed, she just stands there.
WINK (CONT'D): What? Hushpuppy waits, not backing down.
WINK (CONT'D): Come here. Hushpuppy goes to Wink.
WINK (CONT'D): Lay down. Wink pats his heart for her to put her head down on it. A long beat.
WINK (CONT'D): Hey.
HUSHPUPPY: Yea?
WINK: You ain't the one who's sick.
53: She listens to his BIG HUGE HEART.
CUT TO:: The Aurochs cannibalize their fallen comrade, ripping skin and organs in a storm of flesh and gore. The CRIES of the screaming mother melt together with another, sound, more MECHANICAL...
WINK: We ain't going nowhere! Hushpuppy grabs a chair leg as well. It's a standoff.
LITTLE JO: You gonna have to shoot me cause I'm not going.
EVACUATOR 2: Ma'am we're not gonna shoot you.
LITTLE JO: I ain't never left here and I won't never will. She spits. They get closer.
EVACUATOR 2: Relax, relax ma'am.
LITTLE JO: They drag Little Jo out of the house.
WINK: Get your hands off of her! I'm gonna kill you! Let her go!
WINK: Don't eat that. DR. MALONEY, a clean-cut, over-extended handsome young doctor hustles toward the lunch line.
WINK: Whoa whoa whoa, not in front of my kid. Stay, Hushpuppy.
56: Wink pulls Maloney out of earshot.
WINK: I don't need nothing from you! You keep your hands off her! I don't need nothing from y'all! Let me go! Hushpuppy is snatched as she fights to come to his rescue.
HUSHPUPPY: Daddy! They tackle Wink to the ground. He goes limp as he falls.
BABYSITTER: Hushpuppy needs a hug.
HUSHPUPPY: I don't want your hug! The Babysitter squeezes Hushpuppy. Hushpuppy tries to squirm away.
BABYSITTER: Hushpuppy, that's not how nice girls act. Say "I'm sorry ma'am." Hey! Say it. Say it or you're going to corner time. Hushpuppy's eyes meet Wink's and she freezes at his horrifying appearance. Wink grabs a sofa trying to stop the wheelchair as it rolls by. His fingers slips off, too weak to hold on. He tries to scream and nothing but a SEDATED MOAN comes out of his mouth. He tries to pull the tubes out of his arm.
ORDERLY: (gently moving Wink's hand
AWAY): There there, sir. Hushpuppy stares in shock as Wink is wheeled away.
HUSHPUPPY: They're coming for you.
WINK: Boss. Let's go.
HUSHPUPPY: Where we goin'?
JEAN BATTISTE: Go home! Everybody get up! Don't you want to go home? Lets go! These people don't care about you! Little Jo fights off an orderly with a syringe.
LITTLE JO: You live in this hell hole!
WINK: (from outside the door) Make sure you put her somewhere good ok? Wink sags. He's giving her away. He turns to leave..
HUSHPUPPY: (banging on the door) NO! I ain't running! No!
60: Wink walks away from the bus, his chest heaving, his face clutched in the horror of what he's done. Behind him, the bus pulls forward, then veers violently. Hushpuppy charges the driver clawing at her face, punching and kicking.
HUSHPUPPY (CONT'D): Let me go! The driver pulls the break and Hushpuppy bangs the doors open. She charges Wink from behind, gives him a diving shove. He topples over.
HUSHPUPPY (CONT'D): You trying to get rid of me! You trying to get rid of me!
WINK: No!
HUSHPUPPY: Why you trying to get rid of me?
WINK: I ain't trying to get rid of you.
HUSHPUPPY: You is.
WINK: No. Hushpuppy... I can't take care of you no more.
HUSHPUPPY: Yes you can. Hushpuppy stares him down, accusing.
WINK: Daddy's dying! Hushpuppy's chest heaves up and down.
WINK (CONT'D): My blood is eating itself. You know what that means?
HUSHPUPPY: Don't be sayin' about dying.
WINK: Everybody's Daddy dies.
HUSHPUPPY: Not my Daddy.
WINK: Yes, your Daddy! Her defiance is broken and the information starts to sink in. It hurts Wink as much as it hurts her.
WINK (CONT'D): I didn't want you to watch that, ok? You understand? Wink doubles over hacking. He COUGHS horribly. Hushpuppy looks down and sees blood spotting the grass, dripping from his mouth. The Bathtub gangs charges out the door! Across the parking lot they go in a spree of euphoria, coming to a halt around Wink. Hushpuppy is trying to drag his limp body across the parking lot.
HUSHPUPPY: Come on! Come on! Little Jo hold Hushpuppy away from him.
WINK: Walrus, get me home.
63: Hushpuppy stares towards it. The children are gathered behind her. Something has changed in her eyes. The eerie calm has given way to a hardened determination. Though unclear to us, her internal path of action is certain. She takes a deep breath, and lets out a WARRIOR CRY. She runs straight into the water with her girl gang charging behind her.
HUSHPUPPY: Come on! Keep going! They try to kick toward the light but are getting nowhere, the current pulls them backwards. We hear a BOAT HORN and they look to where an ANCIENT TUG BOAT with a cabin that towers into the sky like a giraffe head, appears through the mist.
HUSHPUPPY: I'm going by my Mamma. He smiles broadly, as if this was the secret password. Him and Hushpuppy stare at each other and immediately there is understanding. Two lost souls in the wilderness.
SERGEANT MAJOR: That's a good place to go.
HUSHPUPPY: Which way are we going?
SERGEANT MAJOR: Don't matter baby, this boat'll take you exactly where you need to be. It's just that type of boat. Hushpuppy and Sergeant Major share an ease unlike anyone else we've seen Hushpuppy interacted with. The speak like an old teacher with his favorite disciple. They let their silences last.
HUSHPUPPY: I wanna be cohesive.
SERGEANT MAJOR: Oh you will be, I got no doubt in my mind. They let this thought settle, then Hushpuppy turns her swivel chair back toward the water
65: The beacon appears through the mist. Hushpuppy's eyes go wide. As they approach, another boat comes into view. A half- sunken barge that looks as though its been rusting in the same position for a century. As we move in we see a lit up sign: "Elysian Fields Floating Catfish Shack GIRLS GIRLS
MISS FRANKIE: Holy crap you have toddlers!
SERGEANT MAJOR: Good afternoon, Miss Frankie.
MISS FRANKIE: Well butter my butt and call me a biscuit! How you, Sergeant Major? You need some grits?
SERGEANT MAJOR: Yes ma'am.
MISS FRANKIE: Holy Sugar, they are so precious! Y'all just as cute as a tub of puppies! Women descend on the kids who recoil, not knowing what to do with all this affection. Joy Strong puts up her fists. Hushpuppy pushes through the crowd nonplussed by the flurry of doting ladies. They are not who she is looking for. They are not who she is looking for. She scans pictures of strippers through the ages pasted up all over the ceiling, each of them with a bra hung on it, none of them right. Bar patrons nod and tip their glasses to her as she passes, ladies smile and return to their drinks, drunk flirtatious dancers giggle at her, but she remains unfazed. She reaches two swinging doors that lead to the kitchen. Hushpuppy stops. Sniffs. Heaven. SLOW MOTION: in Hushpuppy's POV, smoke curls through the swinging doors, the light illuminating the dust particles. It's a magic kitchen. Her POV tilts down to the floor where a pair of well-pedicured feet in flip-flops walks towards the swinging doors. They open. Hushpuppy holds her breath. A gorgeous COOK (35) wearing a baseball cap and an apron comes out the double doors. She wipes some sweat off her brow. She watches the band and kills a bottle of ice-cold beer. The Cook looks down. Sees Hushpuppy.
COOK: You need something baby? Hushpuppy nods, holding her breath. She still can't speak.
COOK (CONT'D): Well whatchu want? You alone? Hushpuppy shrugs. She's too stunned, too shy to speak.
67: The Cook takes stock of the helpless creature in front of her. Like a butcher shop owner with a pesky hungry puppy, she submits to Hushpuppy's longing gaze.
COOK (CONT'D): Get in here, I'm'll show you a magic trick. Hushpuppy follows her into the magic kitchen, knocking her head against the swinging doors on her way in.
COOK: Lemme tell you somethin', when you're a child people tell you that everything's gonna be all hunky- dory and all that bullshit, but I'm here to tell you that it's not. So get that out your head right now. She removes the knife from the gator and aims it at Hushpuppy like its a pointer.
COOK (CONT'D): Life's some big old feast, yeah, but you? You ain't nothin' but a stupid little waitress. She scales a gator, strips the bones, dredges, fries.
COOK (CONT'D): Everything you got on your platter gonna fall on the floor and ain't nobody gonna be there to pick it up for you. Someday it's all gonna be on you.
68: She stirs the grits. Grits on plate. Gator on plate. Plate in front of Hushpuppy. Lemon is squeezed all over everything.
COOK (CONT'D): So smile, girl. Hushpuppy tries to crack a grin. She barely remembers how to smile and it comes out all wrong. The Cook shakes her head, opens another beer on her teeth, and heads for the pantry.
COOK (CONT'D): Nobody likes a pity-party-having- ass-woman. Hushpuppy stays behind staring into the floating particles of dust in the incandescent light-- stars of the universe. The golden bubbling fry pot-- lava of the molten core.
COOK: The gator's magic. Hushpuppy looks up from her food-hypnosis.
COOK (CONT'D): (encouraging a smile) Awwwwwwwww. A real smile emerges across Hushpuppy's face.
COOK (CONT'D): Mmm-hmm.
69: We float back to Hushpuppy, the camera dances with her and the Cook. The Cook squeezes Hushpuppy and spins her. Each time we catch their face their eyes are wetter and wetter.
HUSHPUPPY: You can take care of me. Me and Daddy. After a long beat. The Cook shakes her head `no.'
COOK: I don't know nothing bout your Daddy, I can't take care of nobody but myself. This sinks into Hushpuppy.
COOK (CONT'D): You can stay if you want. Hushpuppy considers this for a moment, squeezes the Cook.
HUSHPUPPY: This is my favorite thing.
COOK: I know. A far-away look has come over her. Her mind is somewhere else.
70: He is the first sight of the slimy newborn baby girl tucked in his arm. Baby Hushpuppy stares up at him as he carries her.
WINK: Naw, that waits. Baby Hushpuppy's huge-eyed, warped facial expression ogles Wink. She coos.
WINK (CONT'D): Alright fatso, breathe some air. They pass through a doorway and sun washes over Baby Hushpuppy. She smiles and smiles at the world.
HUSHPUPPY: I need to go home.
COOK: No. Hushpuppy cups her hand to the Cook's ear and whispers something inaudible. The Cook squeezes her tight, seeming on the verge of adopting her. But she can't. She spins Hushpuppy around and around, then puts her down withouth meeting her gaze. Hushpuppy watches her disappear into the crowd of swaying couples. All goes quiet, and we sit behind Hushpuppy's head, a sea of light like a crown around her. MUSIC SWELLS. Decisively, with the force of a charging general, Hushpuppy turns and runs toward camera.
72: In Wink's POV, Hushpuppy stops dead on the bridge, waiting for her fate, staring toward her father.
HUSHPUPPY: You're my friend, kind of.
73: Mother Aurochs grunts, a sentence only Hushpuppy can understand.
HUSHPUPPY (CONT'D): I gotta take care of mine. With weary and clumsy steps, the Aurochs stand and retreat.
WINK: Real good.
74: Wink's chest heaves up and down, harder and harder. A tear rolls down his face.
WINK (CONT'D): No crying, you hear? She holds them back, being tough for her Daddy.
HUSHPUPPY: No crying. Hushpuppy's face hardens, and even as the tears fall, we see a strength and composure that only Wink could have put there. She falls into his arms and he embraces her. Hushpuppy squeezes Wink. She does not let go. She stays strong. Wink's hand trembles on her back. She holds him as his deep, warm, heartbeat slows, slows, and stops. His weight slumps over her. She keeps on holding him, but she knows.
PETER T: As I stand by the bayou, Everyone else joins him.
EVERYONE: A ship at my side starts her motors and sails for the gulf. I watch her until she disappears. "There!
EVERYONE (CONT'D): She's gone!" Gone where? Gone from my eyes, that's all. She's just as big as when she left me. And somewhere else, other voices are calling out, "Here she comes!" And that is dying. They raise their drinks to the sky and shout in unison.
EVERYONE (CONT'D): Hushpuppy gazes into the sparks leaping off the top of the fire are foregrounded in front of Hushpuppy, particles of Wink jumping into the sky. HORNS ENTER, droning low, and building into an funeral dirge.
76: We CUT WIDE to reveal that the water is rising and washing over the road. Our heroes are marching on the final sliver of land. The camera flies backwards, and our view of the road disappears into mist and churning waves. They appear to be walking on water. Hushpuppy leads them forward, into the future.
