VALKYRIE: Written by
TRESCKOW: Managing the Führer's security must be quite an undertaking.
BRANDT: ( in between mouthfuls ) Irregularity is the Führer's precaution of choice.
TRESCKOW: I can assure you he's safe here. Relax, Brandt. Enjoy your meal. Brandt's look says, "Don't be ridiculous." He cleans his plate in seconds. Then he gently dabs his mouth, takes out his datebook and starts writing - once again the precise man we saw on the airfield.
TRESCKOW: With my regards to Colonel Stieff. Brandt accepts the gift, looking up from his book. He studies the familiar shape.
BRANDT: Cointreau? You better hope I don't get thirsty on the flight. Tresckow politely smiles, hiding his nerves, having just handed a bomb to Hitler's Head of Security. Brandt unknowingly carries it onto the plane with Hitler. The door to the Condor is sealed behind him along with, we hope, the Führer's fate. Tresckow looks at his watch and we DISSOLVE TO:
TRESCKOW: He's. landed. It takes a moment for the gravity of this to set in.
AIDE: What about the. Tresckow is already dialing the telephone.
TRESCKOW: Get me Colonel Brandt. Colonel? Tresckow. I trust you landed safely. I hate to trouble you but there's been a bit of a mix up. It seems you have the wrong bottles for Colonel Stieff. You. do still have the package? Long pause. Torture. Then:
AIDE: Do you think he knows? Tresckow shrugs, opening a bottle of Cointreau and pouring two glasses with a shaking hand.
TRESCKOW: There's only one way to be sure.
OFFICER: What happened?
TRESCKOW: I can only guess the altitude caused the fuse to malfunction. First the beer hall, Memorial Day - now this. Someone is watching over that sonofabitch, I swear it.
OLBRICHT: We've been discovered. Tresckow halts and faces Olbricht, expressionless.
TRESCKOW: What makes you think-
OLBRICHT: Oster's been arrested. The Gestapo came for him last night. Tresckow thinks for a beat and resumes walking. Olbricht hurries after him.
TRESCKOW: The Gestapo could have arrested him for anything. Find a replacement.
OLBRICHT: There's no one we can trust. Not in Then stop looking in Berlin. Just then, they approach the final threshold, a SENTRY guards an office marked:
TRESCKOW: Then stop looking in Berlin. Just then, they approach the final threshold, a SENTRY guards an office marked:
SENTRY: Your pistol please. Oh shit. Tresckow plays it cool, removing his pistol from its holster and handing it over. And with a nod to Olbricht, Tresckow squares his shoulders and enters Brandt's office.
BRANDT: You'll forgive me, General. This little round-up has had me writing reports all day.
TRESKOW: Dissenters. A plot against the Tresckow makes a good show of laughing that off.
BRANDT: Dissenters. A plot against the Tresckow makes a good show of laughing that off.
TRESKOW: Who would even have the balls?
BRANDT: You'd be surprised, the number of cowards in this army that would be willing to stand against the Reich.
TRESKOW: Only if the Führer were dead, of Of course. It's one thing to think you know what's right. What matters is having the strength to do it. Clunk. Brandt produces the package, putting it on the desk in front of him.
BRANDT: Of course. It's one thing to think you know what's right. What matters is having the strength to do it. Clunk. Brandt produces the package, putting it on the desk in front of him.
TRESCKOW: I beg your pardon. Brandt sits back, smiles. Does he know?
BRANDT: You've come a long way. You must be I wonder how the Führer, who does not partake, would feel about an officer who did so on duty. Colonel Brandt. Brandt's smile fades. We can't decide why. He picks up the package carelessly. Tresckow stays cool despite the armed explosive just a few feet away.
TRESCKOW: I wonder how the Führer, who does not partake, would feel about an officer who did so on duty. Colonel Brandt. Brandt's smile fades. We can't decide why. He picks up the package carelessly. Tresckow stays cool despite the armed explosive just a few feet away.
BRANDT: I took you for another sort, And we realize he really did just want a drink. He knows nothing about what the package hides.
TRESCKOW: And I you. Tresckow reaches out, grabbing the package and: BANG. The sound of an EXPLOSION O.S. takes us to:
YOUNG LIEUTENANT: Colonel Stauffenberg, sir. A new headquarters has been established at Mezzouna. I'm to take you there. Stauffenberg looks over the scene, expressionless.
STAUFFENBERG: Now they tell us to disengage - a day late. No matter how many times we tell Command the reality, they always manage to leave us- But he stops himself, containing his rage.
YOUNG LIEUTENANT: Colonel, the enemy is less than five kilometers from here. You've done all you can. Stauffenberg glances at his right hand, contemplating a ring on his finger. After a beat:
STAUFFENBERG: I wonder. Was there even a point in our coming to Tunis?
YOUNG LIEUTENANT: To get taken prisoner, it seems. Stauffenberg smiles bitterly and gets in the jeep as: BOOM. The first bomb explodes before we even see the tight formation of BRITISH FIRE-BOMBERS overhead. Fighter planes strafe with machine-guns. Artillery blasts strike in front and behind the retreating column. The 10th Panzer Division is trapped. Panic hits the column like a tidal wave. Stauffenberg taps the Young Lieutenant who drives into the melee. Soldiers abandon their vehicles but cover is in short supply and many are left in the open. So they run. Dozens are gunned down by the assailing fighters. The survivors watch in horror as the fighters slowly turn to make another run. In a panic, the soldiers run the other direction, halted by a jeep blocking the way. Stauffenberg stands in the passenger seat.
STAUFFENBERG: STOP. WAIT UNTIL THEY COMMIT. The men calm when they see the Colonel, trusting him. They turn and watch the formation of planes complete their turn and bear down, gaining speed. Knees tense, some jerking from the natural inclination to flee.
STAUFFENBERG: The mob of soldiers breaks - some right, some left - as the fighters open fire on what had been the center of their mass. Unable to change course quickly enough, they spray their lead into the sand. In that same instant, Stauffenberg drops into his seat, the Young Lieutenant jams the jeep in drive and a wave of hot lead misses them by mere feet. Stauffenberg watches his men regroup, waiting out the turning squadron. They've got the idea now. He turns to his Lieutenant who smiles admiringly. But Stauffenberg's eyes widen. He grabs his Lieutenant's head and jams it down, revealing a STRAY FIGHTER coming up from behind. Stauffenberg ducks out of frame, shielding the Young Lieutenant with his body. BANG. Blood sprays across the jeep's windshield before bullets rip it to pieces, leaving only clear blue African sky. And then the EXPLOSION.
DOCTOR: Mrs. Stauffenberg?
NINA: ( nodding, gesturing to Berthold ) The Colonel's brother, Berthold.
DOCTOR: Perhaps before you see the Colonel we should go to my office and-
NINA: I will see my husband now. The Doctor wants to argue but Nina's eyes shut him down. He opens the door and they enter to find:
DOCTOR: He's been constant with fever but he refuses any pain killers. The right hand has been amputated above the wrist. He's lost the fourth and fifth fingers on the left. We. couldn't save the left eye. Berthold covers his face. Nina is a rock.
NINA: His ring.
DOCTOR: I don't-
NINA: He had a ring on his right hand. Where is it?
DOCTOR: I'm sorry. His hand was amputated in the field. I'm afraid-
NINA: Thank you. As in: "That will be all." The Doctor leaves. Nina sits beside her husband. She shows him a photo of FOUR BEAUTIFUL CHILDREN - three boys and a girl. Stauffenberg tries to speak but can't. His eye begins to tear. Nina removes a ring from her finger, placing it on a chain with a cross she takes from around her neck. It is identical to the ring Stauffenberg wore in Africa. CLOSE ON: The engraving inside the band - finis- initium [end-beginning]. Nina places the ring and chain on her husband's chest, her hand lingering. She cannot hold the tears back any longer. She stands and turns away, not wanting her husband to see. Berthold takes her place. Stauffenberg struggles to speak. Berthold puts an ear to the hole where Stauffenberg's mouth is - making out his question, even if we can't. Berthold debates answering, then:
BERTHOLD: We've lost North Africa. CLOSE ON: That one eye staring at us closes.
STAUFFENBERG: I don't know what I ever did with Olbricht manages a smile, he moves to speak, but Stauffenberg beats him to it.
OLBRICHT: We could use your help.
STAUFFENBERG: I'm a field officer. Olbricht steps closer, speaking openly now.
OLBRICHT: This war can't be won in the field.
STAUFFENBERG: That's unfortunate for me.
OLBRICHT: You can't honestly believe you'll make a difference on the front-
STAUFFENBERG: I'm a soldier, General. I serve my It makes no sense. You opposed Hitler, you opposed the war.
OLBRICHT: It makes no sense. You opposed Hitler, you opposed the war.
STAUFFENBERG: The people chose otherwise and here we are. Now we have to win. You know what will happen if we don't.
OLBRICHT: If we win, it will still be Hitler's Germany.
STAUFFENBERG: We all took an oath, General. Olbricht nods, resigning. He realizes it is no use. Finally, he produces a blue velvet box, opening it to reveal a brilliant gold medal.
OLBRICHT: On behalf of the Führer. Stauffenberg takes the medal and studies it.
STAUFFENBERG: I'm a twin, you know. Olbricht is as confused as we are.
OLBRICHT: I. I didn't.
STAUFFENBERG: My brother died the day after we were born.
OLBRICHT: I'm sorry. What the hell is he talking about?
STAUFFENBERG: I was lying in the desert, covered in blood, sure I was going to die. I tried to think about my wife, my children. But my mind kept drifting to my dead brother. How I would finally be with him. How I would finally be whole again. He snaps out of his thoughts, holding up his arm.
STAUFFENBERG: I don't want the damn th- The Doctor opens the box to reveal: A GLASS EYEBALL sitting atop a layer of satin, staring blankly back at Stauffenberg. Creepy.
DOCTOR: When will you be going back to the Beat. Stauffenberg just stares back at the eyeball.
STAUFFENBERG: I'm not going to the front. I'm needed in Berlin.
WITZLEBEN: .He is not a man, he's a lunatic. He doesn't drink, he doesn't fuck. He has no weakness to exploit, no vice to manipulate. His only passion is complete control. How can you expect to reason with him?
GOERDELER: After this most recent failure I'd say we've no other choice.
WITZLEBEN: Confront Hitler now and you'll end up with piano wire for a neck-tie. Our only option is the central He's a man like any other. Flesh and blood. Take him head on and-
GOERDELER: He's a man like any other. Flesh and blood. Take him head on and-
TRESCKOW: I'll say this for you, Doctor. You're certainly delusional enough to take Hitler's place.
GOERDELER: ( eyes narrowing )
TRESCKOW: I doubt you'll remember much of Dammit, Tresckow- And the shouting resumes. It is Beck who finally sees Stauffenberg. He touches Tresckow's arm. He, in turn, nudges Olbricht and so on. A moment later, the room is silent, all eyes on the Colonel. Everyone is a little embarrassed. Olbricht clears his throat:
GOERDELER: Dammit, Tresckow- And the shouting resumes. It is Beck who finally sees Stauffenberg. He touches Tresckow's arm. He, in turn, nudges Olbricht and so on. A moment later, the room is silent, all eyes on the Colonel. Everyone is a little embarrassed. Olbricht clears his throat:
OLBRICHT: Gentlemen, may I present Colonel Stauffenberg. He's been reassigned to my office at the War Ministry. Colonel, may I introduce-
STAUFFENBERG: These men need no introduction. Beck stands, shaking Stauffenberg's hand.
BECK: I apologize for this unfortunate. spectacle. On behalf of everyone, But before he can finish, Beck is seized with a gravelly cough that sends an uncomfortable chill through the room. He is very ill.
GOERDELER: ( to the others )
TRESCKOW: For God's sake-
GOERDELER: ( re: Stauffenberg )
TRESCKOW: ( to Stauffenberg )
GOERDELER: "Central Solution." You soldiers are all the same. Say what you That's a laugh coming from a The army will follow diplomats before they follow assassins.
WITZLEBEN: That's a laugh coming from a The army will follow diplomats before they follow assassins.
GOERDELER: The army will follow diplomats before they follow assassins.
TRESCKOW: They follow a butcher now. What difference does it-
STAUFFENBERG: What makes you think the army will follow you at all? The room quiets down. Beck hides a slight smile. He likes Stauffenberg already.
GOERDELER: I beg your pardon, Colonel, but you are in the presence of men who would have been Hitler's inner circle. Instead we resigned. We put our principles above personal gain.
WITZLEBEN: We have the have the respect of the people. And the army.
STAUFFENBERG: With all respect, sir, you put too much faith in your popularity. All of you do.
GOERDELER: Now see here, Colonel-
STAUFFENBERG: You said yourself, I'm a field officer. You all may understand government, but I know the men. A great many of them may hate Hitler, but they all fear him - they fear Himmler, Goebbels, the whole of the Reich. That kind of fear won't just die with Hitler. And as for respect: the army, and the people, respect only one thing. Authority. And if just one man questions that authority, you can lose them all. They were fooled into following Hitler. How will you fool them - force them - into following you? Pause. The conspirators look at one another again, unsure of how to answer. For Stauffenberg it is a dreadful revelation.
CHILDREN: He scoops them up, one by one, and kisses them, instantly putting the day's events behind him. Berthold follows them into the room, smiling.
STAUFFENBERG: ( to children ) ( to Berthold )
CHILDREN: MAMA, COME DOWN. PAPA IS HERE. PAPA IS HERE. ( Etc. )
BERTHOLD: What do you mean you quit?
STAUFFENBERG: I came to join the Resistance, not some sewing circle of discarded generals and politicians.
BERTHOLD: Beck is a just and capable man. As for Goerdeler, well, he's popular. He'll make a good Chancellor.
STAUFFENBERG: Like Hitler before him, yes? Lately I have to wonder if Germany is even fit to choose her own destiny.
BERTHOLD: You can't blame the people for this. You have to see the beginning of something to know how it'll end. It's no different than a farmer watching the corn grow. One day it's over his head.
STAUFFENBERG: Plenty of people thought-
BERTHOLD: The greatest offenders are not the ones who thought better but the ones who sensed better.
STAUFFENBERG: What are you trying to say?
BERTHOLD: I seem to remember you telling me about reports from the Ukraine - the SS forcing Jews to dig their own graves. You said then that Hitler should be removed. An officer's duty, you said. What's I said senior officers. The only men that can get to him.
STAUFFENBERG: I said senior officers. The only men that can get to him.
BERTHOLD: Perhaps it doesn't matter that you Stauffenberg looks at Berthold like he is crazy, but:
STAUFFENBERG: Even if they could remove Hitler, they can't hope to seize power. For God's sake, they have no plan.
BERTHOLD: Then give them one. Find a way. He puts a hand on Stauffenberg's arm.
STAUFFENBERG: Children, that is far too- He is cut off by the appearance of his four children, all wearing cloaks made of bed sheets, pots for helmets and brandishing makeshift swords. They charge into the room, singing loudly and attacking their father. He does his best to defend himself with one hand. Their commotion causes the phonograph to skip. And you'd think that's where it ends. We even pull back, creating that effect. It takes a moment to notice the wailing sound we're suddenly hearing is not on the phonograph. Nina hears it first, then Stauffenberg and Berthold. Finally the children freeze and the phonograph skips without their help. The glasses on the table rattle. Now we hear the wailing quite clearly. A siren.
OLBRICHT: We've already considered Valkyrie. It isn't suitable.
STAUFFENBERG: Not as it's currently written.
GOERDELER: Excuse me. What is Valkyrie?
TRESCKOW: Operation Valkyrie. Tresckow explains even as he studies Stauffenberg, curious. What does he have in mind?
STAUFFENBERG: Hitler designed it himself to crush any internal unrest if he's cut off or killed.
GOERDELER: And what use is that to us?
STAUFFENBERG: The orders could be rewritten. A few subtle changes would put those reserve units completely under our Yes, of course, but-
OLBRICHT: Yes, of course, but-
STAUFFENBERG: Now what would the High Command do if they thought, say, the SS was staging a coup?
OLBRICHT: They would declare a military state of emergency.
TRESCKOW: And initiate Operation Valkyrie.
STAUFFENBERG: Hitler's own Reserve Army, using Hitler's own plan and under our command, would automatically seize power in Berlin.
GOERDELER: ( catching on )
STAUFFENBERG: Precisely. It will seem as though we're fighting for Hitler Government, not against it.
GOERDELER: But only if Hitler's dead. All eyes turn to Goerdeler. Here we go.
STAUFFENBERG: I'm afraid it's the only way.
GOERDELER: I'm disappointed in you, Colonel. I thought a man of your background would appreciate a more-
STAUFFENBERG: I'm a soldier first, an aristocrat Yes, but-
GOERDELER: Yes, but-
STAUFFENBERG: And you're neither, Doctor. Now if you want to be Chancellor, you'll do as you're told. A moment of tension. Humiliated, Goerdeler nods. But he won't ever forget this.
BECK: ( to Tresckow )
TRESCKOW: Rewriting the order is one thing - distributing it is another. A bomb can be disarmed, recovered if it fails. In this case we'd be willfully circulating written evidence of high treason. It's the best idea we've heard yet.
OLBRICHT: There is one. small problem.
TRESCKOW: ( realizing )
GOERDELER: Who is Fromm?
TRESCKOW: Commander of the Home Army. Olbricht can put the reserve troops on alert, but only Fromm can actually initiate Valkyrie.
BECK: Can we get to him?
OLBRICHT: He's a careerist pig.
STAUFFENBERG: But one who's gone as high as he can go in Hitler's Army. It's no secret he's not happy about it.
TRESCKOW: Perhaps if we offered him a key position in the new regime he could be made to see the light.
BECK: We don't seem to have a choice. Without Fromm there is no Valkyrie. Get him. We end on Goerdeler, a look of concern on his face.
KEITEL: You're a woman, Fromm. And a fat one at that. I'd have you sent to the front if I didn't think you'd surrender just to be Montgomery's Keitel storms out, leaving a pall. Freyend gives Stauffenberg a last once-over and follows. Beat:
HERBER: The. General will see you now.
FROMM: What is it you want? Olbricht hesitates. Fromm looks up.
OLBRICHT: I wanted to introduce you to our new man - Colonel Stauffenberg.
FROMM: Ah yes - the hero from Africa. I'd offer my hand but you might not give it back.
STAUFFENBERG: I'd say the General's lost more important things this morning.
FROMM: About time they put a man with balls in this office. Have a seat. You too, if you must. They sit. Fromm lights a cigarette, leans back and exhales a cloud of smoke. We let things sit for awhile. The game of recruitment is about to begin and no one is sure where to start. The longer the quiet, the more awkward things seem. Finally:
STAUFFENBERG: I am critical of losing the war, General. All wars - as in Africa - are lost through indecision.
FROMM: In the field, you mean. He's baiting Stauffenberg to talk shit about Hitler.
STAUFFENBERG: In Berlin.
FROMM: I take it that's why you're here. To make decisions.
STAUFFENBERG: I've made my decision, General. I`m here to help others make theirs. Stauffenberg makes no attempt to shade his delivery. He is quite clearly indicating that he means more. Fromm knows it, but he's being coy.
FROMM: They say when there's no clear option, one should do nothing.
STAUFFENBERG: We're at war. We must act. Sometimes. rashly.
FROMM: Just what sort of rash action did you have in mind, Colonel?
STAUFFENBERG: That would be a decision for the Supreme Military Commander. Fromm is getting the message. He takes a deep drag.
FROMM: Supreme Commander, you say.
STAUFFENBERG: Second only to the Chancellor.
FROMM: If only I were that man. This war would be going quite differently.
OLBRICHT: We were thinking the very same Fromm frowns at Olbricht. This was a bit too obvious. Stauffenberg shoots Olbricht a look. "What the hell are you doing?" Fromm casually stamps out his cigarette in the ashtray and picks up the telephone. Olbricht and Stauffenberg steel their nerves - certain they are going to be reported. But Fromm doesn't dial. Instead, to our relief, he disconnects the line. When he is certain that it is dead:
FROMM: I don't need to remind you that we've all sworn an oath. That said, I'm going to forget we had this conversation with the understanding that such speak will never occur under this roof again. Am I clear?
FROMM: Tell your friends that I always come down on the right side. And as long as the Führer is alive, you know what side that is.
OLBRICHT: ( trying to be upbeat ) I think that went rather well.
STAUFFENBERG: Yes. Quite.
TRESCKOW: Dammit, Stauffenberg. You scared me half to death.
STAUFFENBERG: We'll be closer than that before we're finished.
TRESCKOW: Looking this over, I'm not satisfied that the Reserve Army is enough to shut down Berlin Yes, I've been giving that some thought. We should include any field units that are home on leave. Before Tresckow can respond, more papers:
STAUFFENBERG: ( handing over papers ) Yes, I've been giving that some thought. We should include any field units that are home on leave.
STAUFFENBERG: ( to the Fraulein )
FRAULEIN OVEN: I'll tell that I was serving the German people. Then I'll tell them to go to hell.
TRESCKOW: To Operation Valkyrie.
STAUFFENBERG: ( shocked )
TRESCKOW: Would you have stayed? Obviously not. Then it occurs to Stauffenberg.
STAUFFENBERG: Do you think Fromm reported us?
TRESCKOW: It's more likely just. an unfortunate coincidence. Anyway it doesn't matter. You wrote the orders. You know them better than You don't mean to say-
STAUFFENBERG: You don't mean to say-
TRESCKOW: I'm appointing you military leader of the Resistance. Beck agrees.
STAUFFENBERG: But Olbricht-
TRESCKOW: We both know Olbricht hasn't the wit or the spine. No. It's you. A million thoughts are running through Stauffenberg's mind. Fear. Anxiety. But he knows what he must do.
STAUFFENBERG: That greatly limits our options of where and when to make our move, but it's the only way.
TRESCKOW: How will you do it?
STAUFFENBERG: Perhaps it's better I don't say. Pause. A sad smile and nod from Tresckow, a moment ago he was in charge. Now he has no clearance.
TRESCKOW: God promised Abraham that he would not destroy Sodom if he could find just ten righteous men. He puts a hand on Stauffenberg's shoulder.
FELLGIEBEL: You realize how close I am to Hitler. With one word I could have the Gestapo make you disappear.
STAUFFENBERG: Why haven't you then? Fellgiebel checks the stalls to make sure they are empty. Stauffenberg collects his glass eye from the sink, dabbing it dry on a hand towel.
FELLGIEBEL: But you know. And when the SS catch you, they'll pull you apart like warm bread. It'll be a crime just to have known you then. I warn you. If it means protecting myself, I will expose you. Do not try to contact me again. Fellgiebel heads for the door but stops on:
STAUFFENBERG: You can't report me. Maybe if you had when I first approached you, you'd have been keeping your oath. But now you're just as guilty as-
FELLGIEBEL: So you think that makes me a sympathizer, eh? You give a man the choice of betraying a fellow officer or his Führer and assume his actions will show you his heart. It's not that simple.
STAUFFENBERG: It is to me.
FELLGIEBEL: For the last time, don't push me to make a decision.
STAUFFENBERG: I have no choice. It's clear now that without you we have no hope of Pause. Fellgiebel's silence speaks volumes.
FELLGIEBEL: And what if you do, eh? What then? Will you be any different from Hitler? What of his Reich, his people, the very momentum of history? Will all of that let you be something he isn't?
STAUFFENBERG: There it is.
FELLGIEBEL: There it is.
STAUFFENBERG: But my pregnant wife, our four children, the Germany I first swore to defend. They demand that I be something different. They demand that I fight for their future even if it means. And for a moment his voice breaks and he chokes back what may be tears.
DRUNKEN OFFICER: Are you two finished or just getting started? The woman laughs. Stauffenberg walks out past them, leaving Fellgiebel with Hitler's finest.
STAUFFENBERG: Leave us, please. The staff instantly exits - a well-oiled machine. Stauffenberg unplugs the phone.
OLBRICHT: You play the part of bureaucrat It's the only time I can relax.
STAUFFENBERG: It's the only time I can relax.
OLBRICHT: There's a man here to interview as your adjutant.
STAUFFENBERG: Adjut- What for?
OLBRICHT: No one told you? You've been promoted Chief of Staff for the Reserve Army. Some men might find a promotion to be good news. Not For Christ's sake. Don't I have enough to do?
STAUFFENBERG: For Christ's sake. Don't I have enough to do?
OLBRICHT: Unfortunately, your nocturnal activities don't count as service to the Reich.
STAUFFENBERG: I'll refuse the promotion.
OLBRICHT: You'll do no such thing.
STAUFFENBERG: Dammit, I can't handle the work I This is an opportunity we could never have dreamed of. You're in the inner circle now - with genuine access to Hitler, his advisors, his schedule. We need this.
OLBRICHT: This is an opportunity we could never have dreamed of. You're in the inner circle now - with genuine access to Hitler, his advisors, his schedule. We need this.
STAUFFENBERG: We're not ready. We're moving too Not half as fast as the Allies. An invasion is coming, Colonel. Any day now. We must act and we must act soon.
OLBRICHT: Not half as fast as the Allies. An invasion is coming, Colonel. Any day now. We must act and we must act soon.
STAUFFENBERG: For what?
OLBRICHT: ( smiling )
STAUFFENBERG: Be seated. Thrown, Haeften sits. Stauffenberg continues writing, ignoring him. Haeften looks up at the portrait of Hitler, startled when Stauffenberg finally speaks:
HAEFTEN: For anything, sir. Anything at all.
STAUFFENBERG: Anything is a very dangerous word.
HAEFTEN: Five thousand ships, one-hundred thousand men from the combined Allied forces. Haeften and Stauffenberg ride in a sedan. Stauffenberg is in profile the entire time.
STAUFFENBERG: What about the Panzer divisions in-
HAEFTEN: They were never dispatched. Word is Hitler took a sleeping pill. His staff was afraid to wake him.
STAUFFENBERG: First Africa, now France.
HAEFTEN: The Russians bearing down from the Sometimes I wonder if Hitler's real aim is to leave nothing but scorched earth for all of Europe. Stauffenberg rubs his forehead. The car stops. SOLDIERS are waiting outside. Stauffenberg gets out of the car wearing an ornate dress uniform and carrying a leather valise. He has arrived at a meeting of great importance. He turns to face Haeften directly and we are surprised to see both of his eyes - for an instant the young lion he once was. But a closer look is unsettling - we see the faint scarring, one eye glowing and alive, the other cloudy and dead. His glass eye. Stauffenberg only wore it on special occasions. This is one.
STAUFFENBERG: Sometimes I wonder if Hitler's real aim is to leave nothing but scorched earth for all of Europe. Stauffenberg rubs his forehead. The car stops. SOLDIERS are waiting outside. Stauffenberg gets out of the car wearing an ornate dress uniform and carrying a leather valise. He has arrived at a meeting of great importance. He turns to face Haeften directly and we are surprised to see both of his eyes - for an instant the young lion he once was. But a closer look is unsettling - we see the faint scarring, one eye glowing and alive, the other cloudy and dead. His glass eye. Stauffenberg only wore it on special occasions. This is one.
HAEFTEN: Maybe this is a blessing in disguise. Maybe he'll finally listen to reason - consider a truce while he still can.
STAUFFENBERG: We'll see if I can't convince him.
HERBER: Colonel Stauffenberg is an honored guest. The hero of Africa. The SS officers stand down. Herber and Stauffenberg share a friendly smile, about to speak when Fromm walks up on them:
FROMM: For God's sake, Stauffenberg, He pauses, clearly caught off guard when he sees Stauffenberg with two eyes.
FROMM: Mein Führer. I wish to present Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg - our new Chief of General Staff for the Replacement Army. The laughter stops. Hitler and his cronies turn toward Stauffenberg, looking him over. Hitler stands and crosses to him. Fromm meets him first, whispering in the Führer's ear - perhaps reminding him who Stauffenberg is. Hitler nods: "Ah yes." He takes Stauffenberg's left hand with both of his. We are surprised by his charm.
HITLER: May I say, I am honored to meet a hero who has sacrificed so much for Germany. If only more of my officers were like you. Hitler's cronies smile despite the subtle insult to themselves. To make it worse, Hitler turns to them.
FROMM: Mein Führer, we have asked Stauffenberg here today so that he might brief us on mobilizing troops from the Home Army to support those in Normandy.
HITLER: Hmmm? Oh yes, Normandy. That will no longer be necessary. General Goering has assured me that Normandy is under control. Stauffenberg's good eye flickers. "Are you insane? Normandy is a catastrophe." Another glance at the situation map shows Allied forces over-running. But the painted-on smiles of Hitler's nodding cronies promote the lie. No one has the courage to tell Hitler anything close to the truth. Somewhere in their eyes is the fear that someone will.
STAUFFENBERG: Mein Führer, if I may. The situation in Normandy is-
KEITEL: You're dismissed, Stauffenberg.
STAUFFENBERG: Send your man home, Fromm. Then bring us some brandy. Fromm is stung - a man of his rank being treated like a waiter. Stauffenberg steps back, clicks his heels and salutes, just managing to say:
KEITEL: Send your man home, Fromm. Then bring us some brandy. Fromm is stung - a man of his rank being treated like a waiter. Stauffenberg steps back, clicks his heels and salutes, just managing to say:
STAUFFENBERG: Heil Hitler. Hitler half waves, walking slowly back to his seat. Fromm and Stauffenberg leave.
FROMM: I don't know what you've got brewing and I don't want to know. But when the music stops, I'd be much obliged if Keitel should find himself without a chair.
STAUFFENBERG: They're all insane. Every one of them except for Speer, and he's nothing but an architect. Stauffenberg puts on his eyepatch before removing his glass eye. He polishes it with a cloth and now it stares at him from his gloved hand. A conscience.
BECK: Out of the question. It won't work. We need you here in Berlin.
STAUFFENBERG: Who else, then? Who can even get as Beck knows there is no other choice.
BECK: Orders are not enough. They need a man to follow. The right man. Pause. Stauffenberg knows he's right. The fucking pressure. He thinks for a moment, then with a sigh:
STAUFFENBERG: Olbricht will oversee operations in my absence. I can be back in Berlin three hours after Hitler is- Stauffenberg shuts up, lowering his head in prayer as a CLERGYMAN passes. Once they are again alone:
BECK: Three very crucial hours.
STAUFFENBERG: We both know there's no other way. Beck nods, resigned.
BECK: I'll tell the others- As if on cue, Beck loses control of his cough. Stauffenberg leans forward, handing him a handkerchief and putting a reassuring hand on his shoulder until the old man's hacking subsides.
STAUFFENBERG: Nonsense. You're stronger than you think. You might just be the strongest one of all.
NINA: .After that I thought I'd take the children to the country for a few days to see my- Claus? He snaps out of his thoughts. "Hmmm?"
STAUFFENBERG: The country. Nina. Listen. I want you to delay your trip. Just for a while. She wants to ask, he wants to tell her. Finally:
NINA: Does this have something to do with. your work?
STAUFFENBERG: I would just be more comfortable knowing where you are - until I'm back from Berlin. Things will be different then. I promise. Long pause. Once again, a couple who know each other well enough to not have to say things plainly. Nina is worried but strong.
NINA: How long until. until we see you?
STAUFFENBERG: A few days. If all goes well. Then we can travel as a family.
NINA: And if things. don't go well? He hesitates.
STAUFFENBERG: I love you, Nina.
NINA: And I love you. What-
CHILDREN: PAPA, COME AND PLAY WITH US. ( Etc. ) The children kick the ball toward Stauffenberg - the one sport he can play. He is about to say something to Nina, but she cuts him off.
NINA: Go be with your children. Stauffenberg stands, touching Nina's cheek and kissing her forehead. We stay on her as he joins the children. She watches them play together, seeing her husband laughing for the first time in a long while. Her eyes well with tears - a mixture of happiness and anguish. Too good to last, too much to bear.
MERTZ: Two 975 gram packs of plastic-W. Enough explosive to cripple a Your detonators. Your fuses. British time pencils. This acid capsule is your trigger. Stauffenberg carefully studies the items before him.
OLBRICHT: What if they search your bag?
STAUFFENBERG: I'm one of the inner circle now. They'll make sure I am who I am. Beyond that, they won't touch me. How much time do I have?
MERTZ: Theoretically there's a 30-minute delay. But with the kind of heat you can expect at the Wolf's Lair, I'd give you 10, 15 minutes tops.
HAEFTEN: That's. hardly precise.
MERTZ: This is state of the art. You can have small or precise. Not both.
OLBRICHT: Might this be just a little too The explosion won't do the killing. The air in the room will. He points to the drawing - an overhead sketch of:
MERTZ: The explosion won't do the killing. The air in the room will. He points to the drawing - an overhead sketch of:
OLBRICHT: Of course, I'm all for redundancy. However. If, by some miracle, Hitler does survive, what then?
STAUFFENBERG: We have an inside man at the Wolf's Lair in communications. He'll notify you immediately following the flash and then sever all contact with the outside world. The others are stunned.
OLBRICHT: Just how did you manage that?
STAUFFENBERG: It's my job, isn't it? While Hitler's inner circle is still regrouping, you will initiate Valkyrie and seize control in Paris and Berlin. Even if Hitler survives, we'll have momentum.
MERTZ: ( to Olbricht )
OLBRICHT: Himmler is expected to be at the meeting as well. Don't proceed unless you can get them both.
STAUFFENBERG: That could be difficult.
OLBRICHT: Why kill a madman just to have a lunatic take his place?
STAUFFENBERG: This is Goerdeler's idea, isn't it?
OLBRICHT: The members are in total agreement on this. Stauffenberg chews on this, pissed. Then:
STAUFFENBERG: Fucking politicians. I'll hold off if the decision is unanimous. And I want another man on the committee. A soldier. A soldier himself, Olbricht is insulted.
OLBRICHT: And just who this soldier be? Stauffenberg glances at Mertz, sizing him, up.
STAUFFENBERG: ( pointing to Mertz )
OLBRICHT: Mertz's eyes widen. "Me?" But Stauffenberg and Haeften pick up their briefcases and leave without another word. Assassins. Olbricht reaches for the phone and dials.
HELM: ( handing over the order ) What about it?
HAANS: What about it?
HELM: This order is calling the Reserve Army for some sort of stand-by action. in Berlin.
HAANS: ( shrugs )
HELM: Valkyrie? I've never heard of that.
HAANS: Send the order through, Sergeant. A SHRILL WHISTLE and a WAILING SIREN take us to.
REMER: What do you suppose this is all Probably just a drill. But Remer doesn't seem convinced. Remember him.
HAGEN: Probably just a drill. But Remer doesn't seem convinced. Remember him.
STAUFFENBERG: ( to the Driver )
HAEFTEN: ( whispering to Haeften ) Your man?
STAUFFENBERG: ( whispering )
KEITEL: .Now for the first order of business. Fromm, I believe you will brief us on blocking divisions for the Eastern Front. Stauffenberg silently excuses himself from the room. We hold on his briefcase. Remember where he left it.
MERTZ: General Olbricht's Office. Hold the line. Stauffenberg says Himmler's not at the briefing. He wants to proceed. All color drains from Olbricht's face.
OLBRICHT: Call Beck. He leaves. Mertz rolls his eyes and dials a second Beck and Goerdeler sit impatiently by the telephone, waiting for any word on the assassination and impending coup. When the telephone RINGS:
BECK: He presses the receiver tightly to his ear, a look of concern washing over his face. He turns to Goerdeler.
STAUFFENBERG: What do you say? Pause. Mertz looks around, makes sure he is alone.
MERTZ: I say do it. Stauffenberg hangs up the phone. The moment of truth.
STAUFFENBERG: ( mouthing )
KEITEL: .Gentleman. You are dismissed. And like that, the briefing has ended. Stauffenberg is sickened - the opportunity lost. Hitler exits, walking right past him. Keitel and the rest file out. The last to leave is Fromm.
FROMM: That call better have been Stauffenberg turns, coming face-to-face with Freyend, Keitel's hateful toady. He holds the missing briefcase. For a moment we're sure the jig is up.
FREYEND: Your bag. Colonel. He hands it over and leaves.
HASE: ( whispering )
OLBRICHT: This has been a drill. You're all to be commended for your quick response. Dismissed. Pause. The men linger, confused until:
SOLDIERS: HEIL HITLER. And the men fall out, nowhere to go so they just light up and shoot the shit. Hagen approaches Remer.
HAGEN: What did I tell you? A drill. But Remer is not so sure. The way he stares at Olbricht makes us nervous. CLOSE ON: Olbricht sees Remer looking at him, making note of the esteemed KNIGHT'S CROSS pinned to Remer's uniform. Olbricht leans toward Hase.
OLBRICHT: That man there. Who is he?
HASE: Major Remer? He commands the Deutschland Guard Battalion. What about him?
OLBRICHT: Get rid of him.
HASE: Remer? Don't worry about him. He's an order taker. To the bone. Ah yes. But whose orders?
HERBER: The General will see you now. Stauffenberg and Olbricht stand, hats in hand.
FROMM: How dare you put the Reserve Army on standby without my knowledge. You damn near cost me my commission. What in God's name made you think you even had the It was only a drill. An exercise.
OLBRICHT: It was only a drill. An exercise.
FROMM: DON'T LIE, OLBRICHT. Not to me. We both know it was no fucking drill.
STAUFFENBERG: General, if I may-
FROMM: You may not, Colonel. You may not do anything. Because now you've not only shown me you can't deliver, you've painted a target on my back. If I so much as sense you trying to move the Reserve Army again, I'll personally have you both arrested. Do I make myself abundantly clear?
FROMM: Heil Hitler.
OLBRICHT: Heil Hitler. But Stauffenberg turns to leave without answering.
FROMM: I'll hear you say it, Colonel. Stauffenberg stops, glaring at Fromm with his one eye. He squares his shoulders, clicks his heels loudly and delivers a downright Nazi-like:
STAUFFENBERG: HEIL HITLER. Still managing to make it sound spiteful. He leaves without being dismissed, slamming the door.
GOERDELER: The point of your central solution is to replace Hitler so that we can negotiate a truce with the Allies. The Allies, I suspect, would be more amenable to a truce. IF WE
STAUFFENBERG: Today was a matter of indecision - nothing more. A military operation in the hands of a politician. Stauffenberg's lack of respect infuriates Goerdeler.
GOERDELER: I don't think I am alone when I say your judgement is in question. I would like to take a vote.
BECK: I DEMAND THAT WE RELIEVE COLONEL Carl, if I may have a word with you in private.
GOERDELER: I DEMAND THAT WE RELIEVE COLONEL Carl, if I may have a word with you in private.
BECK: Carl, if I may have a word with you in private.
GOERDELER: If you have something to say, Ludwig, say it here. Say it now.
BECK: Very well. There's no need to vote. Beck turns to the bar, pours two drinks. Stauffenberg stiffens, ready for the axe.
GOERDELER: Wha. What are you saying?
BECK: Fellgiebel informed me this evening. Himmler's issued an order for your arrest. You'll have to leave Germany. Tonight. When we've succeeded with the central solution you'll return as Chancellor. Until then- Goerdeler stands, confronting Stauffenberg.
GOERDELER: This is your doing, isn't it? ISN'T IT? You can't just get rid of me like this. I am the man Germany will follow. I'm. I. Stauffenberg says nothing. He's too cool. Goerdeler looks at the other conspirators, but no one is going to speak for him. Finally, almost in tears:
BECK: Disappear, Carl. Avoid contact with Ugly pause. Goerdeler snatches the envelope and sulks out. We could not be happier to see him go. Beck coughs, turns to Stauffenberg.
OLBRICHT: I can't issue Valkyrie again unless we follow through. If he fails to-
STAUFFENBERG: I'll do my job. You just take INT. STAUFFENBERG'S BERLIN FLAT - NIGHT CLOSE ON: A telephone. Stauffenberg's three fingered hand picks up the receiver and lifts it out of frame.
BECK: Have you made your peace with God, As best I can.
STAUFFENBERG: As best I can.
BECK: Then you have nothing to fear. Stauffenberg manages a smile as Beck sits.
STAUFFENBERG: I know the soldier inside me is a traitor. I wonder how I'll be judged as a man.
BECK: By history?
STAUFFENBERG: By God.
BECK: In the end, we answer only to Stauffenberg fingers the cross and ring hanging from the chain around his neck.
STAUFFENBERG: Bombing in Ebingen. I can't get Ebingen is a long way from Bamberg. They're safe. You've seen to that. To think. You came to us a wounded soldier from Africa. Now. Now you are both the architect and the assassin. I'm still trying to understand how this came to be.
BECK: Ebingen is a long way from Bamberg. They're safe. You've seen to that. To think. You came to us a wounded soldier from Africa. Now. Now you are both the architect and the assassin. I'm still trying to understand how this came to be.
STAUFFENBERG: ( more to himself )
BECK: What's that?
STAUFFENBERG: And the two men look up at the cross in silence.
BECK: Gentlemen, may I introduce Chief Helldorf. He's guaranteed the full support of the Berlin Police. Helldorf nods. The men breathe a collective sigh of relief. Some laugh. Many shake Helldorf's hand.
BECK: Gentlemen, this is the most important day of your lives. Long live sacred Germany. The conspirators salute and leave. Beck places both hands on the table to support himself, coughing and exhausted. Then he looks nervously at his watch.
MERTZ: Put the Reserve Army on standby Not until I hear from Stauffenberg. Not until I'm sure.
OLBRICHT: Not until I hear from Stauffenberg. Not until I'm sure.
MERTZ: But that's not what he-
OLBRICHT: Noted, Colonel. Thank you.
FREYEND: Gentlemen, may I present Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg - Chief Officer of the Reserve Army.
OFFICER #1: Colonel Stauffenberg. This is an honor. They say you're the man that will defend Berlin from the Red Army single-hand- The officer realizes what a faux pas he has made as soon as he says it. Unfazed, Stauffenberg smiles, raising his briefcase with his single hand.
STAUFFENBERG: Indeed. I've got the whole bag of tricks right here. The officers laugh nervously, relieved he was not insulted. Idiots. Meanwhile, Freyend steps toward Haeften, reaching for the handle of his briefcase.
FREYEND: Let me take that for you. But Haeften snaps the case back. Freyend raises a suspicious eye. Before he can press:
FELLGIEBEL: At east, Gentlemen. General Fellgiebel, communications. I just wanted to meet the hero of Africa. And see if there's anything you need.
STAUFFENBERG: Yes, sir, there is. I'm expecting a call of the utmost importance. Even if it comes when I am in conference with the Führer I'd appreciate it if you had a man come and get me. Beat. Fellgiebel and Stauffenberg share an instant look of understanding.
FELLGIEBEL: Of course, Colonel. Fellgiebel salutes. Stauffenberg and the others return it as Fellgiebel departs. Just then, Keitel bursts from his office, fixing his tie.
KEITEL: Gentlemen. The meeting has been pushed forward to 12:30. Mussolini is arriving on the afternoon train and Hitler wants to have lunch with Stauffenberg is excited by a potential bonus.
STAUFFENBERG: Will Mussolini be in the briefing?
KEITEL: I only wish he were. Then some ambitious officer might take the opportunity to shoot the dago Keitel makes a beeline for the door and the others follow like good sheep. Stauffenberg holds back, however, attracting Freyend's attention.
STAUFFENBERG: I'll need a place to wash up - change my shirt. Stauffenberg points to the shaving cut on his throat and the tiny blood stain on his shirt. The cut was intentional after all. Annoyed, Freyend motions to the adjoining anteroom.
FREYEND: Please, do be quick. You heard the Stauffenberg nods in appreciation. He motions for Haeften to follow him. Freyend watches, curious.
HAEFTEN: ( whispering )
STAUFFENBERG: No room for error this time. Assume I have ten minutes in this heat.
HAEFTEN: Leaving just three minutes to place the bomb.
STAUFFENBERG: Plenty of time.
HAEFTEN: If the bomb goes off in ten. He carefully inserts the fuse into the explosive. The RING OF A TELEPHONE startles us.
FREYEND: Major Freyend speaking. Stauffenberg? Yes, he's arrived. They are on their way now. Freyend hangs up, glancing impatiently at his watch.
STAUFFENBERG: Dammit man, what is it? It's Freyend, of course, trying to peer through the partially opened door. Stauffenberg hides the bombs with his body.
FREYEND: General Keitel insists that the Colonel please hurry.
HAEFTEN: The Colonel is changing, Major. You understand this can be difficult. Freyend backs down. A little.
STAUFFENBERG: ( to Haeften )
HAEFTEN: But sir-
STAUFFENBERG: I have everything I need, Lieutenant. Thank you. Haeften reluctantly takes his leave just as Freyend turns back, eager for Stauffenberg to pick up the pace. He reaches for the briefcase.
FREYEND: Please. Let me help you with that.
STAUFFENBERG: ( pulling it away )
STAUFFENBERG: Where are they going?
FREYEND: It's too hot. The briefing has been moved to the conference hut. ANGLE ON: The conference hut. The door and many windows of the flimsy wooden structure are all open. Not ideal for generating the deadly air pressure vital to Stauffenberg's plan. But this obstacle only seems to strengthen his resolve. He is a soldier after all. And no military operation goes according to plan. Making matters worse:
STAUFFENBERG: My injuries left me a bit hard of hearing. See that you place me as near the Führer as possible. Freyend nods, but for now his concerns are elsewhere - wrangling everyone into the meeting. Like the other officers, Stauffenberg hangs up his belt and hat on hooks at the entrance to the briefing room. He catches sight of SERGEANT-MAJOR ADAM, the conference hut's young telephone operator.
GENERAL: The Eastern Front forces are assured a victory. but they need In other words, they are getting pounded but he can't say that. The General is relived to be interrupted by Keitel's arrival. The briefing stops momentary as:
KEITEL: Please pardon our tardiness. You remember Colonel Stauffenberg?
GENERAL: As you can see, Mein Führer, the situation in the East Prussian sector is increasingly critical. Freyend startles Stauffenberg slightly when he takes him by the arm, moving him to his place at the table - less than half a step from Hitler. He is squeezed in between two other officers. We suck in wind when we see who one of them is. COLONEL HEINZ BRANDT - the same Brandt who carried the bottles of Cointreau onto Hitler's plane so long ago. He still scribbles in his damn datebook. Freyend sets the briefcase beside Stauffenberg - bumping Brandt's leg. Brandt looks down at the briefcase - long enough to make us nervous. He watches as Stauffenberg nonchalantly bends down, sliding the briefcase as close to Hitler as possible, leaning it against the heavy wooden table support immediately to the right of Hitler's foot. Stauffenberg looks back at the open door, glances at his watch. He can clearly see Sergeant Adam, the telephone operator. Where is his God-damn phone call? Around him generals talk, Hitler nods, but we hear nothing. Only the pulse of Stauffenberg's heartbeat in his own ears - the only thing betraying his otherwise outward calm. He looks down at the briefcase - the bomb just under his feet. He looks at Hitler nodding. The longer we stay, the more excruciating it is. So we milk it. Stauffenberg is startled when a hand touches his arm. The annoying Freyend is there, whispering in his ear. Keitel sees this, irritated by the interruption. Stauffenberg makes a gesture to Keitel with his hand, indicating a phone call. Keitel is not pleased.
ADAM: General Fellgiebel, sir. He says it's urgent. Stauffenberg takes the phone and stares at Freyend and Adam - they get the idea that this is a private call and leave. When they are gone, Stauffenberg simply lays the receiver down and walks out. Fast. A moment later, Adam returns to the room. He sees the receiver laying there. Odd. Looking down the hallway he sees Stauffenberg quickly exiting the building. Then he notices Stauffenberg's hat and belt still hanging outside the briefing room.
GENERAL: .And now I believe Colonel Stauffenberg will present us with his deployment for the Replacement Army should the unthinkable occur and the Russians reach- Where is Stauffenberg? Keitel shoots Freyend a look.
FREYEND: Where the hell is Stauffenberg? But Adam shrugs, holding out Stauffenberg's hat.
STAUFFENBERG: Contact General Olbricht in Berlin. Tell him Hitler is dead. Proceed with Operation Valkyrie. Then sever all communications. Fellgiebel nods and rushes to make the call. Stauffenberg leads Haeften to their waiting car - still driven by young Lt. Kretz.
COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: What the hell just happened?
FELLGIEBEL: What does it look like? The Führer Fellgiebel freezes, something catching his eye. COME AROUND TO HIS P.O.V. Share his horror. Through the window, Fellgiebel has a clear view of the conference hut, or rather what's left. HITLER - limping, dazed, his clothes in tatters - is being led from the smoldering ruins. He is very much:
STAUFFENBERG: We have to get to the airfield at once. Orders form the Führer. The guard signals his men to remove the barricade.
FELLGIEBEL: Sever all communications.
COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: DON'T ARGUE WITH ME, DAMMIT. JUST DO IT. Olbricht anxiously hovers over Mertz who shouts into the phone.
FELLGIEBEL: DON'T ARGUE WITH ME, DAMMIT. JUST DO IT. Olbricht anxiously hovers over Mertz who shouts into the phone.
MERTZ: I didn't hear you. Come again. Fellgiebel. FELLGIEBEL. But it's no use. Mertz slowly hangs up the phone.
OLBRICHT: Well, what did he say?
MERTZ: I. couldn't be sure. It sounded as though he said. Hitler is still alive. Olbricht clinches his teeth and starts sweating.
OLBRICHT: Get him back on the line.
MERTZ: Sir. The bomb did go off. That much was clear. Fellgiebel's next step will be to sever all Olbricht is confused. Frozen.
OLBRICHT: Only Fromm can initiate. You know Then lie. Tell him Hitler's dead. Or arrest him. But do it now. But Olbricht is frozen.
MERTZ: Then lie. Tell him Hitler's dead. Or arrest him. But do it now. But Olbricht is frozen.
OLBRICHT: I'm not doing anything until I talk to Fellgiebel. Get him back on the phone. NOW. Mertz shakes his head bitterly and dials, but he'll never get through.
KOLBE: No one gets in or out.
STAUFFENBERG: We're on orders from the Führer. We have to get to the airfield immediately. You will step aside.
KOLBE: I'm sorry, sir, but my orders are- Stauffenberg steps out of the vehicle and makes a beeline for the guardroom. Kolbe races after him.
STAUFFENBERG: Get me General Keitel. Stauffenberg wipes a single bead of sweat from his brow. With the guards hovering over him, he turns and casually sits on the desk, blocking the phone with his body. He surreptitiously rests his hand on the telephone cradle, hanging up. He talks to no one.
KOLBE: Sergeant Kolbe says no one is getting out. Yes. Yes. Maybe you can explain it to him.
STAUFFENBERG: Sergeant Kolbe says no one is getting out. Yes. Yes. Maybe you can explain it to him.
KOLBE: That won't be necessary, Colonel.
OLBRICHT: I can't initiate Valkyrie without confirmation that Hitler's dead. It's too great a risk.
MERTZ: What about Stauffenberg? What about his risk? He did his part and now you're abandoning him.
OLBRICHT: Watch yourself, Colonel.
MERTZ: Shouldn't you be consulting Beck?
OLBRICHT: I know just what Beck will say. He's a dying man. What does he have to lose? He puts on his hat and coat now, turning to leave.
MERTZ: At least put the Reserve Army on I can't cover up another false alarm. When Stauffenberg returns, when he gives me confirmation. Then we'll proceed. Mertz is speechless. As Olbricht walks out:
OLBRICHT: I can't cover up another false alarm. When Stauffenberg returns, when he gives me confirmation. Then we'll proceed. Mertz is speechless. As Olbricht walks out:
MERTZ: And where are you going?
OLBRICHT: The same place you are. Lunch.
ADAM: The one-eyed Colonel.
KEITEL: He left the building very abruptly - just before the explosion.
ADAM: He left the building very abruptly - just before the explosion.
KEITEL: Several men left the building before the explosion.
ADAM: Yes, sir. Of course. But.
KEITEL: But what? Spit it out, man.
ADAM: Well. The Colonel left his hat. Keitel's expression sours. "Is that all you've got for me?" He is about to say so when that prick Freyend barges in, also banged up. With him is Kretz - Stauffenberg's driver.
FREYEND: Pardon the intrusion, sir, but I think you will be most interested to hear what this man has to say.
MERTZ: Orders from General Olbricht.
HELM: Send it through. But keep me A SHRILL WHISTLE takes us to.
HAGEN: Here we go again. He says this to:
STAUFFENBERG: Quiet, isn't it? Too quiet.
HAEFTEN: I'll see where our driver is. Haeften walks over to the office. Stauffenberg looks around the airfield. The silence slowly becomes unnerving. He goes after Haeften.
OLBRICHT: Explain this.
MERTZ: Someone had to do something while you were playing dead.
OLBRICHT: We don't know that the Führer is not alive. We don't know any-
MERTZ: THIS IS ABOUT GERMANY, FOR GOD'S SAKE. NOT YOU. BE A MAN. Before a fuming Olbricht can respond, the phone rings. Both men look at it - Olbricht is afraid to answer. Mertz shakes his head and picks up.
STAUFFENBERG: It's been three hours, Olbricht. What the hell have you been doing?
OLBRICHT: We've had no confirmation that-
STAUFFENBERG: Dammit man, I saw the explosion myself. Nothing else matters now. We are committed. Olbricht sits, color draining from his face. A real "what have I done" moment.
OLBRICHT: Dear God.
STAUFFENBERG: Now where is Fromm? Is he with us or did you-
OLBRICHT: I- No one has spoken to him yet. Stauffenberg pounds his fist on the wall, furious - for the first and only time showing us a crack in his ultra-cool exterior. He collects himself and looks at his watch.
STAUFFENBERG: Listen to me, Olbricht. Never mind Germany. Never mind Europe. Your life is at stake now, do you understand? If you want to live through the night you'll do exactly as I say.
OLBRICHT: I understand.
STAUFFENBERG: The second you hang up the phone, initiate Operation Valkyrie in Fromm's name. Then go over to his office in force, give him the choice to join us or place him under immediate arrest. Do I make myself perfectly clear?
OLBRICHT: I understand.
STAUFFENBERG: I am at the airfield now. I will be in Fromm's office in fifteen minutes. Be there when I arrive. He slams the phone down, taking us to:
VALKYRIE: He looks at Mertz.
OLBRICHT: Get Beck and the others. Tell them it's time. Relieved, Mertz nods and rushes out. Olbricht picks up the phone and dials. After a beat, he reads from the first page of the Valkyrie order.
HELM: The Führer is dead. Skeptical, Haans snatches the paper from Helm. When he looks up, the entire staff is looking at him, some with tears in their eyes - others perhaps hiding a sense of relief. A phone rings. Then another. The chattering teletypes seem to surge into another gear as news of Hitler's death starts to spread.
HAANS: You all know your jobs. Get to Zombie-like, the Operators go back to their teletypes, passing orders along. But one Operator - the one Helm asked to keep him informed - notices something strange about one order in a stack of many he is sifting through.
OPERATOR: Sergeant. This order is signed by That's ridiculous. He`s not even in the army anymore. But sure enough, there is Witzleben's name. Strange. Helm looks over at the devastated Haans, wondering how to handle this. Then, like a good little Nazi:
HELM: ( taking the paper )
OLBRICHT: General Fellgiebel. At the Wolf's Fromm is at a loss for words. This just can't be so. He picks up the phone.
OLBRICHT: There's no use calling, all communication lines are-
KEITEL: I don't know what you mean. Everything's in order here. Keitel looks out the window at the still smoldering ruins of the conference hut in the distance.
FROMM: There's talk the Führer's been Another failed attempt. The Führer was never in danger. By the way, where is your man Colonel Stauffenberg?
KEITEL: Another failed attempt. The Führer was never in danger. By the way, where is your man Colonel Stauffenberg?
FROMM: Stauffenberg? On his way back to Berlin, I should think. At the very mention of his name, Olbricht starts Let me know when he arrives. I'd like a word with him.
FROMM: Click. After a beat, Fromm hangs up, smug.
STAUFFENBERG: Hitler is dead. Operation Valkyrie is in effect. Fromm stands, pounding his fist on the desk.
FROMM: OPERATION VAL- WHO GAVE THE ORDER? You did.
STAUFFENBERG: You did.
FROMM: THIS IS NOTHING LESS THAN TREASON. Be that as it may, the Reserve Army is assuming control here in Berlin. We trust you'll join us.
STAUFFENBERG: Be that as it may, the Reserve Army is assuming control here in Berlin. We trust you'll join us.
FROMM: Dammit, man. Do you realize what you've done? The Führer is a-
STAUFFENBERG: I delivered the bomb myself. I saw the blast. He is dead. Fromm is stunned on several levels. He slowly sits back in his chair.
FROMM: This can't be happening. It's some kind of joke.
STAUFFENBERG: Are you with us or not?
FROMM: Colonel, if what you say is true you should shoot yourself at once. The rest of you are under arrest.
STAUFFENBERG: No, General. You are. And with those words, Haeften and Mertz draw their pistols, training them on the confused Fromm. Herber is paralyzed - unsure of what to do.
FROMM: I don't know where you think this is going, but I suggest you men change into civilian clothes and find a place to hide.
STAUFFENBERG: ( to Haeften )
STAUFFENBERG: You're not in uniform.
BECK: This has to be seen as a movement of the people. Then he takes Stauffenberg's arm, letting Mertz and Olbricht walk on, lowering his voice.
YOUNG OFFICER: Colonel Stauffenberg, sir. We're reporting for duty. Stauffenberg is moved beyond words. Suddenly, what was once a small clutch of discarded generals and politicians is now a movement of motivated men. Stauffenberg nods, collects himself. In the crowd he finds Helldorf, the head of the Berlin Police, whom we met earlier. At first he speaks quietly, humbled.
STAUFFENBERG: ( shaking hands )
HELLDORF: There's a lot of talk that Hitler isn't really dead. Is this true? Awkward pause. Good question. The men in the room share nervous glances. Then all eyes on Stauffenberg.
STAUFFENBERG: I can't offer you any guarantees. The decision is yours and yours alone. Can we count on you?
HELLDORF: I'm with you. Stauffenberg can barely hide his relief. There is a palpable shift in the room. One by one, the officers in the room reaffirm their commitment to the coup.
STAUFFENBERG: Have your men surround the building. No one gets in or out of here without my permission. I want every available soldier on task - we need simultaneous control of every government building in the city. Dismissed. The soldiers move, but Beck's voice stops them - surprisingly loud and clear for a sick old man.
BECK: Acts of vengeance will not be tolerated. We represent a different form of government. We represent what is good and just in Germany.
STAUFFENBERG: .Deploy troops to seize and protect all Reich agencies. Of most importance are communication centers - newspapers, radio stations, telephone and telegraph offices. All Nazi officials and government leaders are to be arrested at once.
HASE: . Completely blockade the government quarters. Everything from the Brandenburg Gate to Potsdamer Platz. Nobody, not even generals or ministers, should be allowed to pass. You have your orders, gentlemen. Again, we focus on Major Remer, Commander of the Deutschland Guard Battalion and always suspicious.
REMER: It just all seems very. vague, sir. Protocol dictates we should receive orders in writing-
HASE: These are the orders as they were presented to me, Major. Now move. Pause. Just before the pause becomes insolent, Remer clicks his heels and salutes, leaving. But the look on his face tells us he's hatching a plan of his own. You are right to be nervous.
HAGEN: Major Remer. We've just had orders from the War Ministry. The battalion is to blockade the government quarter and place Minister Goebbels under arrest. Remer does not move. He just thinks.
REMER: Something just doesn't feel right about this. I would hate to find out I'm being taken advantage of.
HAGEN: ( realizing )
REMER: Of that I am certain. What I can't say is which side we're on. Get in. As Hagen does, Remer turns to his DRIVER.
STAUFFENBERG: Send him in. It's all right. Send him in.
FAT GENERAL: Begging your pardon, but I have orders to report to General Fromm.
OLBRICHT: General Fromm is no longer in command. I am.
FAT GENERAL: ( seeing Beck )
STAUFFENBERG: The Führer is dead. The SS is staging a coup. We've initiated Operation Valkyrie to crush the uprising and save Hitler's Germany. The Fat General assesses the scene with suspicion.
FAT GENERAL: I'd say there is a coup all right, but it's not the SS. Olbricht offers a sheet of paper.
OLBRICHT: You will present these orders to your troops.
FAT GENERAL: I will do no such thing without speaking to General Fromm. I swore an oath-
STAUFFENBERG: You have your orders. Join us or face the consequences. Stauffenberg and Olbricht take an imposing step in the Fat General's direction. He carefully backs away.
FAT GENERAL: This is treason. I won't take part. The Führer is not dead. THE FÜHRER
OLBRICHT: STOP THAT MAN. But they just watch the commotion, stunned. A ranking general being chased like a common criminal. Surreal. Haeften and Mertz appear at the other end of the hall - pistols raised, blocking the General's path. With Stauffenberg and Olbricht they overpower the Fat General who screams wildly to the amazement of the gawking officers.
FAT GENERAL: THE FÜHRER IS NOT DEAD. I'VE SWORN AN OATH. YOU ALL HAVE. When they have him under control, Stauffenberg turns to the onlookers. He finds a familiar face in the crowd. A face he can trust. He finds:
STAUFFENBERG: Lt. Herber. Come here. ANGLE ON: Lt. Herber. "Who, me?" He reluctantly steps Lock him up with Fromm. Herber hesitantly takes hold of the General, but the act of taking a General into custody is a strange one. Herber is clearly conflicted.
GOEBBELS: I am ready to be connected. The sound of footsteps outside his door. It bursts open. Remer enters, followed by ARMED SOLDIERS.
REMER: Minister Goebbels, my battalion has an order to blockade the government quarter and place you under arrest. Remer sees the pistol on Goebbels desk. But Goebbels makes no attempt to grab for it. Instead:
GOEBBELS: Are you a dedicated Nazi, Major? Remer is caught off guard.
REMER: Yes, sir. With that Goebbels turns his attention to the phone in his hand. We hear a faint voice: "Hello?" With an eerie smile, Goebbels simply extends his arm, offering the phone to a confused Remer. Silence as the Major takes it, holding it to his ear.
REMER: Of course, Mein Führer.
HAANS: What is it now, Sergeant?
HELM: It's just that now we're getting conflicting orders, sir. The Wolf's Lair says one thing, Stauffenberg Haans sighs, genuinely irritated now.
HAANS: Our job is not to interpret the orders. Our job is to pass them along. Regardless.
HELM: Yes, but sir-
HAANS: Is that perfectly clear, Sergeant? Haans thrusts the orders back at Helm who sheepishly walks back to his pool of radio operators.
REMER: ( re: prisoners )
HAGEN: But these men are part of a coup.
REMER: I've just been on the phone with Hitler himself. We are the coup, you idiot. We've been duped.
FROMM: Well, Lieutenant. What do you make of all of this? Herber freezes. Beat.
HERBER: I. I don't know.
FROMM: I won't ask you to make a choice. That's for you and you alone. All I ask is that you observe and think for yourself. In time you'll see things for what they truly are. You know where to find me when you do. Herber nods hesitantly, then turns to leave, but:
HERBER: Heil Hitler.
GOEBBELS: Have you seen the Führer? Is he-
HIMMLER: It seems the conference table shielded him from the blast. He's lucky to be alive. Do you want to tell me what's going Everything is under control. I've taken charge of the Guard Battalion and given them new orders. We're turning the tables on these I've been sent here personally by the Führer to collect the conspirators. He insists they be taken alive. Goebbels and Himmler, two of the most evil men who ever lived, smile coldly. Being taken alive by this mob is obviously a fate worse than death. Goebbels turns to a nearby AIDE.
GOEBBELS: Everything is under control. I've taken charge of the Guard Battalion and given them new orders. We're turning the tables on these I've been sent here personally by the Führer to collect the conspirators. He insists they be taken alive. Goebbels and Himmler, two of the most evil men who ever lived, smile coldly. Being taken alive by this mob is obviously a fate worse than death. Goebbels turns to a nearby AIDE.
HIMMLER: I've been sent here personally by the Führer to collect the conspirators. He insists they be taken alive. Goebbels and Himmler, two of the most evil men who ever lived, smile coldly. Being taken alive by this mob is obviously a fate worse than death. Goebbels turns to a nearby AIDE.
GOEBBELS: Take this down. By order of Adolf Once again the operators are frozen, looking at Lt. Haans. He in turn looks at two orders in his hands. He is deeply confused. Sgt. Helm is not.
HELM: It's a coup all right. And when it's over, we'd better wind up on the right side. Now we can't afford to remain neutral any longer. We have to make a decision.
HAANS: Very well. Send all communications from the Wolf's Lair. Stop all communications from Stauffenberg. The operators spring into action.
RADIO ANNOUNCER: .The Führer himself suffered no major injuries and resumed his work Stauffenberg turns off the radio, grabbing Haeften just as he is coming in.
STAUFFENBERG: Send the following teleprint to all Army Commanders. `Broadcast communique not correct. The Führer is dead. Orders to be carried out with utmost dispatch.' Haeften nods and leaves. Stauffenberg turns back to his work, coming face to face with a deeply troubled Beck. Stauffenberg whispers, frustrated.
WITZLEBEN: The military districts are receiving contradictory reports. I've got men sitting around joking about whose turn it is to arrest whom. Neither the capital nor the radio network are under our control. And where are the troops? You'd think there would be some activity going on in this city. The word is all over the street that Hitler is still alive. We trusted you and you failed us. You should have stayed. To be sure.
STAUFFENBERG: Field Marshal Witzleben is right. I am the officer in charge. I am the man responsible. No one else. Olbricht is moved and rightly so. Meanwhile:
WITZLEBEN: I'm going home to await my inevitable arrest. Witzleben turns, marching out. The room remains ill at ease, everyone having just witnessed a serious blow to the Resistance. Those anonymous soldiers present exchange glances of concern.
OLBRICHT: I'm sorry, Colonel. After a beat, Olbricht turns and leaves. CLOSE ON LIEUTENANT HERBER, tucked away in a corner of the office.
HERBER: Arm yourselves.
REMER: YOU THERE. Stauffenberg and Haeften turn and run.
HAEFTEN: Thank you, Colonel. Stauffenberg is genuinely confused. "For what?"
REMER: You're under arrest.
FROMM: If you have any last messages, you'd better write them now.
STAUFFENBERG: My actions speak for me. I'd rather my wife and children remember our last time together. The others bravely nod in agreement. But then:
BECK: I'd like a pistol, please. Stauffenberg looks at Beck with surprise.
REMER: General, my orders are to deliver the prisoners alive.
FROMM: Noted, Major. Get on with it then.
REMER: But, sir-
FROMM: THAT WILL BE ALL, MAJOR.
BECK: I'm thinking of earlier times. CLOSE ON: The conspirators turn away, unable to watch. Except Stauffenberg.
FROMM: Very well then. A court martial, convened by me in the Führer's absence, has pronounced sentence: Colonel Mertz von Quernheim, General Olbricht, Lieutenant And the Colonel, whose name I will not mention, are condemned to Take them outside. Remer is clearly upset by this. Herber, on the other hand, seems clearer than ever. He nods to his men who drag the conspirators out. Herber personally takes Stauffenberg by the arm. The two men share a look. Nothing needs to be said. Each has found his place. Stauffenberg turns to confront Fromm. He is weak, white from fatigue and loss of blood.
STAUFFENBERG: The Führer will want to put us on trial, make an example of us. This won't win you any favor. And it won't hide you're involvement.
FROMM: Involvement. I don't know what you-
STAUFFENBERG: You knew and you did nothing. You're just as guilty as we are. Even more so.
FROMM: Spare me, Stauffenberg. And those words bring a genuine smile to Stauffenberg's face. He almost pities Fromm now.
STAUFFENBERG: No one will be spared. And as Fromm motions for Herber to take Stauffenberg away, we hear music, faintly at first - accompanied by the subtle hiss and crackles of a phonograph. It is the piece Stauffenberg and Nina were dancing to one night long ago. Over this: A voice. A man speaking in German - faint at first, crackling over the radio.
