VANILLA SKY: Written by Cameron Crowe
ON BLACK: We hear a whooshing sound, getting louder.
MORNING: David starts up his dark green sports car, and roars onto the New York City streets.
DAVID'S VOICE: You're a shrink. You've got to do better than that.
DAVID'S VOICE: What do you want to know? I was about to turn 33. I ran three magazines, and a world-wide publishing house. On most days I actually fooled myself into believing it would last forever.
DAVID'S VOICE: Isn't that what being young is about? Believing secretly that you would be the one person, in the history of man, who would live INT. BEDROOM - MORNING David enters, reaching for his wallet, repeating the morning ritual. A figure stirs in the bed behind him. She leans upward, wearing David's college basketball tank for a pajama-top. She's warm and wicked, a mildly reformed party girl, the kind of girl first-novels are written about. She is JULIANNA GIANNI,25.
JULIANNA: Where you going so early?
DAVID: ( slightly self-conscious ) Hey, don't record any more messages on my alarmclock, okay?
JULIANNA: Why not?
DAVID: I'll think we're married or Don't you ever say that word. Or I'll never come over here and bring you chicken soup and fuck your brains out again.
JULIANNA: Don't you ever say that word. Or I'll never come over here and bring you chicken soup and fuck your brains out again.
JULIANNA: Still there. How's yours?
JULIANNA: Reyna, it's Julianna. I missed my ( dramatic, like Bette Davis ) I lost my head. Listen, I have to ( whispers ) I'm with David.
DAVID: Help yourself to whatever you want. Set the alarm, Maria will clean up. Lock up when you go. And. you are the greatest.
JULIANNA: Bye "honey!"
DAVID: Bye "honey!" I'll call you later.
JULIANNA: When? When?
DAVID: They have a comfortable, healthy, mutually satisfying, gloriously superficial relationship.
DAVID: Did you reserve the court?
BRIAN: Easy. I can't handle heavy conversation at this ungodly hour.
DAVID: I'm sorry to do this early. I gotta be done by 10. Car phone rings. David checks Caller ID - it's his office. He clicks on.
DAVID: How did you find me?
RACHEL'S VOICE: David Aames, you have to check the colors of the letters for the new issue of Rise.
DAVID: What are the colors?
RACHEL'S VOICE: Yellow-and-red. or the traditional white.
DAVID: Let, me think about it.
RACHEL'S VOICE: David, please. Don't be late for the ten o'clock with the board.
DAVID: Okay, but. don't tell anybody where I am I don't care if God calls. I'm very busy.
BRIAN: Can't you just get rid of that The Seven Dwarves? No.
DAVID: The Seven Dwarves? No.
BRIAN: Those people drive you nuts.
DAVID: And that was the desire of my father, who hired them.
BRIAN: ( suspicious pause ) You fucked Julie Gianni again, didn't you? David takes off driving.
BRIAN: I know someone was there when I called. You had that tone. ( imitates nasal phone voice ) Oh, no man, I've got a cold. I'm hanging in tonight.
DAVID: ( shaky defense ) I had a cold. I was alone.
BRIAN: Fine. You can do whatever you want with your life -
DAVID: but one day you'll know what love truly is. It's the sour and the sweet. And I know sour which allows me to appreciate the sweet.
BRIAN: but one day you'll know what love truly is. It's the sour and the sweet. And I know sour which allows me to appreciate the sweet.
DAVID: Julie Gi.anni is a friend. Sometimes we sleep together. Brian howls in pain, like a hurt dog.
DAVID: My dream girl. Julie Gianni. is your. fuck buddy. Brian emits another pained howl. David reaches over to change the music.
BRIAN: My dream girl. Julie Gianni. is your. fuck buddy. Brian emits another pained howl. David reaches over to change the music.
DAVID: What do you want to listen to?
BRIAN: Slow down, man.
DAVID: What have we got here - Barcelona, Looper. Radiohead? Brian freezes at what he sees.
BRIAN: Look out! Look out! David turns and sees he's hurtling into the back of a car stopped just in front of him. Clenching he hits the brakes, narrowly avoiding a high-speech collision. And then. to his right. another car comes hurtling toward him. and stops within an inch of deadly impact. There is an awful moment, as the second car blares on the horn. Traffic continues, but the lingering feeling of dread and confusion is still in the air.
BRIAN: ( annoyed ) We almost died.
DAVID: ( annoyed ) We almost died.
BRIAN: I know. My own death was right there in front of me, and you know what happened? Your life flashed before my eyes.
DAVID: How was it?
BRIAN: Almost worth dying for. Pedestrians continue walking around the honking tangled mass of the near-.accident.
RACHEL: The art department needs a decision on the colors. Yellow- and- red, or white? And the board is pissed you're late.
DAVID: You changed your hair. David taps on the window of the art department, in panic over several cover mock-ups. He gives a presidential thumbs-up, moves on. They look at each other, trying to decipher if the thumbs-up was a decision.
ART EDITOR: Did he mean the yellow-and-red or the white? David passes a holdover from the old days, older Receptionist ( BEATRICE ) who speaks uncomfortably and gruffly into a headset. She gives David a knowing look - late again.
RACHEL: They're all waiting for you. And David - opinions are expected.
GRUMPY: ( skeptical ) How was Aspen?
DAVID: ( playful, mock drama ) Good. Now I want answers, and I want them now. ( pause ) How's it going? He gestures charmingly, easily, and bows with apology over his lateness. All are happy to see him. Sort of.
DAVID'S VOICE: They still look at me like I was still eleven years old.
FLASHBACK: David at 11, blithely skateboarding the hallways. He passes Beatrice, who turns to an editor.
BEATRICE: He's going to inherit everything. He gets it all. INT. PRISON PSYCHIATRIC UNIT - NIGHT ( INTERROGATION # 1 ) The light from a small line of chicken-wired windows cuts through the blackness. In the shadows of this dank room, we hear his voice but we do not see him. It is the smaller, slightly muffled tone of David Aames. In the shadows, he wears a mask.
MCCABE: You're scared of your dreams, aren't you?
DAVID: It's a nightmare either way.
MCCABE: Is that how do you explain what's happened to you?
DAVID: What happened to your face?
MCCABE: What happened to your face?
DAVID: I'm not talking to you anymore.
MCCABE: And you don't want to show me your Do you know why you're here?
DAVID: Do you know why you're here?
MCCABE: Do you know why you're here?
DAVID: ( sarcastic ) The conversation, the coffee
MCCABE: David - the part where we parry and joust, and get to know each other bit-by-bit. we're going to have to skip it. You've been charged with murder. In four weeks, a judge will determine your fate based on what I write. You will talk to me
DAVID: There is no murder! It didn't happen! I don't have to talk to A Contentious Prison Guard ( AARON ) swings his feet down and gets up from watching a 17-inch television on a stool. He exits into the bigger room to quiet down David Aames.
AARON: You want me to help -
DAVID: Get the fuck away from me.
AARON: Take it easy, sunshine.
DAVID: Get the fuck away from me.
AARON: Take it easy, Face. Your whole story is full of holes! With great power, McCabe advances on the guard. His presence, when he turns on the switches, is considerable.
AARON: ( whispering, exiting ) I'm gonna get you, Daddy's boy little freak.
DAVID: My parents are dead, you fuck!
MCCABE: The Contentious Guard leaves.
MCCABE: Is it true?
DAVID: ( sing-song ) Good cop. bad cop.
MCCABE: That you're a Daddy's boy?
DAVID: ( in darkness, by rote ) Primer on David Aames, Senior. My father was not built for the 21st Century. He never ate at
MCCABE: I've read it. Page 127. "David Junior was a delight as a child." Did I miss something here? Is that all he wrote about you?
DAVID: I don't think he ever got over the fact that I was terrified of heights. And when he and my mother were run over by a drunken teenager on New Year's Eve, ten years ago. David Aames moves closer to the light. We see a strange bland expression of his mask, at first otherworldly. and then more clearly.
DAVID: he left the keys to the Kingdom to me. 51% control, 49% going to a group of seven board members who all thought they were first in line.
MCCABE: And you believe the Board, the Seven Dwarves, put you here to take control of your company.
DAVID: What do you care?
MCCABE: We're just talking. And tonight's Wednesday night, and I go to Black Angus for dinner with my daughters on Wednesday nights, so I'll have to leave soon. You understand that our time is limited, don't If I talk, you'll just think I'm McCabe gathers his things.
DAVID: If I talk, you'll just think I'm McCabe gathers his things.
MCCABE: With all the respect I can offer a man wearing a latex mask and spouting conspiracy theories, David, trust me - you've crossed that bridge.
DAVID: Fine. Enjoy your dinner. Somehow the lilt in McCabe's voice draws him closer.
MCCABE: There are five basic emotions in life. Tell me. what emotion gripped. him. before he entered that cell? Was it Guilt? Shadows. There is no answer, just a rustling and a growing sense of anticipation in the darkness.
MCCABE: Hate? Shame? Shadows. Still no answer.
MCCABE: McCabe now shows the invisible skill with which he has brought his client to the precipice. And now, with one word, he invites David Aames to look over.
MCCABE: In the darkness, a rustling and the slight turn of a head.
MCCABE: I'm completely on the wrong track, aren't I?
INVISIBLE: DISSOLVE TO: INT. DAVID'S APARTMENT/BACK ROOM OFF KITCHEN - NIGHT From the darkened back room, David Aames appears with ice, and re-enters his party.
DAVID: Who needs ice? Aames moves swirls is more like it - through into his party, which is nicely underway. Upscale. Modern. Part literary crowd. Part fashion crowd. He's great in a crowd. Surrounded by people, David Aames comes alive.
LYNETTE: David! Happy Birthday.
DAVID: Jesus, you have the greatest taste in shoes I've ever seen. Bar none. Anywhere. A Woman Caterer in Whites ( EMMA ) slips by with a knowing EMMA THE CATERER The old place sure looks more crowded with people in it.
DAVID: Emma, do you know Lynette?
PETER BROWN: The Living Stereo system is online and looking great. it's an
PETER BROWN: and happy birthday, sir.
BRIAN: Hey man. Happy birthday and all the usual shit people say to each other. How you doing?
DAVID: Livin' the dream, baby. Livin' the dream. The two friends hug. David shares a quick glance with Brian's date, who still burdened with coat.
BRIAN: ( to Sofia, as in 'meet the notorious.' ) Meet David Aames.
DAVID: ( can't help but flirt ) And to what do I owe this pleasure, the pleasure of
SOFIA: ( playful ) the pleasure of Sofia. Serrano.
BRIAN: We met today at the library, if you can believe that
SOFIA: I'm sorry about my coat. It's too big for your closet.
BRIAN: - we were both pretending to be No no, I think it's amazing. I love your coat.
DAVID: No no, I think it's amazing. I love your coat.
SOFIA: I overdressed. I mean I I'll just continue like you're both actually listening to me.
BRIAN: I'll just continue like you're both actually listening to me.
SOFIA: ( to David ) Do you have another room to put it ( invisible, re: their chemistry ) I have ceased to exist.
BRIAN: ( invisible, re: their chemistry ) I have ceased to exist.
DAVID: Well, Madison Square Garden is nearby, it might fit there.
SOFIA: ( shoves David playfully, as in touche ) Happy Birthday. Her upbeat physicality is intoxicating. Sofia hands David her present.
BRIAN: We picked it out together. Neither look at Brian. Brian takes a breath. He's been here before.
DAVID: Thank you.
BRIAN: We picked it out together. We.
SOFIA: Stop flirting and open it.
BRIAN: Stop flirting and open it.
DAVID: Let's get a drink.
BRIAN: Let's get a drink.
SOFIA: I'll leave this upstairs. David exits. They are left to consider his personal ANGLE ON A HOLOGRAPHIC DISPLAY CONNECTED TO STEREO An odd and disarmingly beautiful display of Coltrane performing "My Favorite Things" in David's living room. Sofia passes a hand through Coltrane's image, admires it.
DAVID: I'll leave this upstairs. David exits. They are left to consider his personal ANGLE ON A HOLOGRAPHIC DISPLAY CONNECTED TO STEREO An odd and disarmingly beautiful display of Coltrane performing "My Favorite Things" in David's living room. Sofia passes a hand through Coltrane's image, admires it.
ON DAVID: David is approached by THOMAS TIPP, a Brit, and an Associate board-member at Aames Publications. Tipp is ten years older than David, and he is the rarest of birds. A sentimental lawyer. And at the moment he's a bit drunk.
DAVID: Hey Tommy. David moves to address him so he can still track Sofia.
TIPP: Hey. Listen to me. Don't blow me off. I'm all packed, I'm going back to London and I understand. You put me up for that other attorney's job, so you didn't have to fire me. A classy move, and your father would have done the same -
DAVID: It's okay, Tommy
TIPP: I became incompetent. Is there anything more unbecoming than an aging mascot? I cared about your father. I lived and breathed for him. But these guys, the board, they think you're stupid. A corporate hazard, a rogue. But the word "stupid" is what David heard loudest of all. Nearby, we see a Woman Partner ( one of the Seven Dwarves ) taking a quick look at David.
TIPP: But they're going to find a way to get you out. They're lined up for your office - David scans the room. Beneath the good cheer, he sees the other layer. Lying. Disloyalty. All part of the institution he enjoys forgetting exists. Each word bashes his soul.
TIPP: your job. Your life. Your position. They are working day and night. to cheat you out of your 51% vote. And they are going to sell this tradition, this tradition of words, so they can eat at a better cafeteria. And what they don't know is this - ( gestures grandly to books that surround them ) - people will read again. David's gaze falls upon Sofia, who is looking directly at him. And for one blinding moment, something passes between them. She looks away. He feels saved.
DAVID: ( interrupting with finality ) I got it.
TIPP: They even have a nickname for you behind your back. David smiles faintly. Understandingly. Tipp kisses him on the cheek, boldly and drunkenly. He feels like a hero to himself.
TIPP: Citizen Dildo. David flinches, just a little.
TIPP: Now you've got great instincts. But I say this with complete love. Claim your life. Learn to be an Asshole. Don't be -
DAVID: ( extracting himself ) Two's enough -
TIPP: Don ' t be- ( immediately ) Okay. Forgive me. I still believe in this family. Even if it's only you. David continues tracking Sofia as he slips over to Peter Get Tipp out of here, drive him home, and in the morning tell him he's re-hired with a 50% raise. Set up a meeting with the other attorneys. I'm going to be in early tomorrow ( a look from Peter Brown ) earlier than usual.
DAVID: Get Tipp out of here, drive him home, and in the morning tell him he's re-hired with a 50% raise. Set up a meeting with the other attorneys. I'm going to be in early tomorrow ( a look from Peter Brown ) earlier than usual.
JULIANNA: Hello handsome. He turns to see Julie Gianni in the bathroom doorway, wrapped in a comforter.
JULIANNA: I've come to wish you happy I didn't invite you, Julie.
DAVID: I didn't invite you, Julie.
JULIANNA: Yeah, that was a little weird -
DAVID: But that's how it works with parties. You have to be invited.
JULIANNA: I'm mad at you, you dick. We made love four times the other night.
DAVID: Is that good?
JULIANNA: Two is good. Three is very good. But four -
DAVID: ( fishing for a compliment ) Four is pretty good?
JULIANNA: No, four is. four is. just hold me.
DAVID: Four is what?
JULIANNA: Hold me, and then I'll leave, and you can go talk to that cute Four is what?
DAVID: Four is what?
JULIANNA: I don't want to meet your fancy friends. I knew 'em all back when I was fancy too. He holds her. They talk in between friendly kisses.
DAVID: Four is what? She pulls away, and talks plainly to him.
JULIANNA: She looks like a moth, David.
DAVID: A moth?
JULIANNA: Sometimes I worry about one of these clever girls in a big silly coat who'll play you in just the right way, and I'll lose my friend. And there'll be no more chicken soup parties for you and She kisses him again. David very gently, and skillfully resists. She gets the message.
JULIANNA: When will you call me? And don't say soon. I hate it when you say INT. PARTY NIGHT Sofia eyes a framed smashed guitar handsomely mounted in a glass display case.
SOFIA: So this is what's become of rock and roll. A smashed guitar behind a glass case displayed on some rich guy's wall.
DAVID: It was a gift, actually. She turns and sees it's David, engaging smile in place. She jumps slightly.
SOFIA: ( apologetic ) I like it. She turns and walks away, David following close behind.
DAVID: Whoa, whoa, whoa.
SOFIA: - how did you get all this stuff, this apartment, this life - David is looking just over her shoulder. She turns to see an almost disturbingly large portrait of David Aames, Sr. She turns back.
SOFIA: I see.
DAVID: How about if you help me? Unless I'm horning in here.
SOFIA: You are, but the food's good.
DAVID: ( playful, like a spy ) See, I've got a little problem. I've got a stalker.
SOFIA: It doesn't. sound life-threatening. Someone passes, bumping her slightly, into him.
DAVID: I need a cover. I need for you to pretend we're having a scintillating conversation. And you're wildly entertained. I know it's tough.
SOFIA: I'll improvise -
DAVID: She's right across the room and she's burning a hole in my back right now, isn't she?
SOFIA: Red dress, strappy shoes?
DAVID: ( beat, jarred ) wow, she's really staring at And she seems to be growing. less happy.
SOFIA: ( beat, jarred ) wow, she's really staring at And she seems to be growing. less happy.
DAVID: And she seems to be growing. less happy.
SOFIA: And she seems to be growing. less happy.
DAVID: I think she's the saddest girl to ever hold a martini. Julie Gianni sits on the steps watching. The girl, and the dress, looked much happier in the bedroom. Julie rises and begins to move.
SOFIA: I think she's the saddest girl to ever hold a martini. Julie Gianni sits on the steps watching. The girl, and the dress, looked much happier in the bedroom. Julie rises and begins to move.
ON BRIAN: Brian holds a drink, attempts to crash a conversation between two models. His debonair act is shaky.
SOFIA: You have another apartment?
DAVID: Sort of a day office. Come on - They arrive at the door to a smaller upstairs apartment.
SOFIA: I'm not going in there.
DAVID: Well I am. Goodnight. He enters and shuts the door. Frustrated, she stands for a moment, listening to the music streaming from the downstairs apartment. We watch her private moment as she decides to leave him, turns, feels the emotional pull, dances back and knocks sharply three times.
SOFIA: I hear her coming.
SOFIA: David pulls her inside. Shuts the door behind them.
DAVID: We're safe. And I've got nothing to drink.
SOFIA: Who did these paintings?
DAVID: This is Joni Mitchell. This one is Monet. And this one is done by ( as a tour guide ) It is a snowboard.
SOFIA: Well, two of them are geniuses. ( laughs )
DAVID: ( off the Monet ) It's the real thing. His paintbrush painted that vanilla sky. His canvas. It. was my INT. PARTY - NIGHT Julianna and Brian hold their private conversation by a piano. They are bonded, almost mesmerized by their mutual fascination for David.
DAVID: You know what I think? You're either a very good actress or you really do sort of like me.
SOFIA: I am an actress.
DAVID: There's probably not too much you aren't great at.
SOFIA: Are you about to compliment, my phone voice?
DAVID: It's pretty good, you know -
SOFIA: Oh, I'd only disappoint, you. See - I'm not. qualified. I can spell.
DAVID: I'm surprised you're available.
SOFIA: I'm surprised you're surprised.
DAVID: I can't keep this banter going.
SOFIA: Me neither. Beat. They drop the act. A powerful, awkward moment. and the door opens.
BRIAN: I caught you.
SOFIA: Brian! Come in here!
DAVID: What's going on
BRIAN: Your friends are fun and I'm ( cheerful ) Julie Gianni is stalking me.
DAVID: ( cheerful ) Julie Gianni is stalking me.
SOFIA: She looked dangerous.
BRIAN: Nobody stalks me. So I drink.
DAVID: Well, we're out of drinks up here.
BRIAN: Here, finish my Jack and Coke. He messily tries to hand his drink to David, but spills it embarrassingly. All his cool is gone, and what's left are his friends covering for him, cleaning up.
DAVID: These stupid glasses -
BRIAN: No, it's the stupid guy holding ( embarrassed ) Don't worry. I'll get. us all something. Jacks and Cokes? She exits, leaving the two friends.
SOFIA: ( embarrassed ) Don't worry. I'll get. us all something. Jacks and Cokes? She exits, leaving the two friends.
BRIAN: I better hit it. I drank too much and I didn't fucking eat.
DAVID: Don't be stupid. The party's just ( moving away ) For you it is.
BRIAN: ( moving away ) For you it is.
DAVID: You can't go. You're my guest of Fuck you, David. You're paying me to write my novel, so you own me.
BRIAN: Fuck you, David. You're paying me to write my novel, so you own me.
DAVID: I don't own you. You're brilliant, you're good-looking, you're handsome.
BRIAN: But why'd you have to hit on No one's hitting on Sofia.
DAVID: No one's hitting on Sofia.
BRIAN: Fine. Whatever you say. I'm crazy, I'm blind.
DAVID: No, you're not blind. You're just drinking Jack Daniels. And when you drink Jack, you start. in with that Frank Sinatra, "She Shot. Me Down," gimme a cigarette, King of Sad thing.
BRIAN: That. I do. Gimme a cigarette.
DAVID: I'll find one.
BRIAN: But wait. You're rich and women love you and I'm from Ohio and I'm drunk. Can I tell you the truth?
DAVID: Everyone does.
BRIAN: I dig her. And I've never said this to you before, about any girl. But she could be. could be could be could be. the girl of my fuckin dreams.
DAVID: You're not from Ohio.
BRIAN: I know.
BRIAN: But if she fucks tip our friendship - she can go to hell. I won't allow it! We are bros.
DAVID: I feel the same way.
BRIAN: ( wishes he believed it ) Sure you do. Brianprepares to leave, as Sofia returns with drinks.
SOFIA: Where you going?
BRIAN: I am Frank. And Frank must go.
SOFIA: I good you bid evening. Sofialooks at her watch, and the situation.
BRIAN: I good you bid evening. Sofialooks at her watch, and the situation.
SOFIA: Hang on, I'll go with you.
BRIAN: Stay, baby.
DAVID: I'll give you a lift home later.
SOFIA: No, I have to work tomorrow.
BRIAN: You're in great. hands. ( beat, realizing it's over ) I'm just humoring myself that my opinion matters. Brian looks at the two of them. Life is telling him, and he knows it's time to go. Portrait of a man who will not get what. he wants. David notes the poetry in his friend.
BRIAN: ( leans in close to David ) You will never know the exquisite pain of the guy who goes home alone. Because without. the bitter, baby, the sweet ain't as sweet. Have a good time. He exits like a champ, a glorious sad-sack, with a hand The Sweet and Sour speech again.
DAVID: The Sweet and Sour speech again.
DAVID: A lot of people are scared of heights. It's not the heights that bother me, it's the impact that terrifies me. ( off her look ) I won't stay long. She laughs. It was never his decision to make.
SOFIA: Hey Paulo! A large goofy dog comes running at her, and then proceeds to slather David with love too.
DAVID: I'm glad he protects you. This is a lethal canine.
SOFIA: ( from other room ) I love living here. And I refuse to clean up!
DAVID: No problem.
SOFIA: I've got to work around the clock to keep this place. David eases the dog away as he examines the oddly exquisite dolls. He grabs a look at her in the other room. A bit of leg between boot and skirt. As he admires the dolls:
DAVID: So you're really a dancer, huh?
SOFIA: For 14 years. But I don't dance like you dance. She laughs to herself, steals a look at him. Turns away.
SOFIA: Do you want something to drink?
DAVID: David looks at her refrigerator. A note reads: Call Dad! An odd epiphany occurs as he sees the collage of photos
DAVID: I like your life.
SOFIA: Well, it's mine and you can't have David examines a humorously embarrassing vacation photo of a sloshed Sofia, a guy's arm reaching for her breast. Dedication reads: To Sergio! Marry me!
DAVID: I do not want to know the story behind this photo. Who's Sergio?
SOFIA: It's a nickname.
DAVID: Your nickname is Sergio?
SOFIA: It's a long story, and we don't know each other.
DAVID: So many secrets.
SOFIA: That's because I'm really an arms I've never known an arms dealer.
DAVID: I've never known an arms dealer.
SOFIA: You do now. What about you? What's your nickname? David freezes. And then decides what the hell - to tell the truth.
DAVID: Citizen Dildo.
SOFIA: You're not staying over.
DAVID: ( still stung over nickname ) Never run a company. Stay an artist. Stay an arms dealer.
SOFIA: Oh please. Somehow, I can't play the violin for you. ( beat ) Although. It must be hard controlling all those people's lives. Everyone at that party is connected to you for survival in some way, it seems. David looks at her, mentally assessing her level of guile.
SOFIA: Ever been married?
DAVID: No. Ever accept any of your 12,000 proposals?
SOFIA: ( playful, self- deprecating ) And you moved to New York. To dance and paint and act and deal ( going through CDs ) Do you want to hear Jeff Buckley. or Vikki Carr?
DAVID: And you moved to New York. To dance and paint and act and deal ( going through CDs ) Do you want to hear Jeff Buckley. or Vikki Carr?
SOFIA: ( going through CDs ) Do you want to hear Jeff Buckley. or Vikki Carr?
DAVID: Jeff Buckley. or Vikki Carr? Both - simultaneously. He continues looking. Flashes of the photos on her Everyone said "don't go to New York." But I just think good
SOFIA: Everyone said "don't go to New York." But I just think good
SOFIA: You think I'm naive. He decides she's for real. He turns back to the photos on her fridge.
DAVID: No. I really don't.
SOFIA: I have to get to sleep. Truthfully I'm also working mornings as a dental assistant.
DAVID: ( to himself ) Boy, am I going to the wrong MCCABE( V.0. ) And you didn't immediately want to sleep with her?
MCCABE: - actually no I don't. I've been married for twenty-two years.
DAVID: Ah, you've got dinner with your That's right. I do.
MCCABE: That's right. I do.
DAVID: Back then I had intricate systems with women you wouldn't believe.
MCCABE: Like. what.
DAVID: Hey Doc. Don't get all melancholy over the thirty seconds you were single a long time ago.
MCCABE: That's what you think I'm doing?
DAVID: Well, you may have a point. Let's continue. Time is not our INT. AARON'S CUBLICLE/PSYCHIATRIC UNIT - DAY Aaron watches David, a 17-inch television on a stool to his right. Again, strangely, it is "To Kill A Mockingbird" that he's watching. We hear audio from the movie through the glass.
MCCABE: Well, you may have a point. Let's continue. Time is not our INT. AARON'S CUBLICLE/PSYCHIATRIC UNIT - DAY Aaron watches David, a 17-inch television on a stool to his right. Again, strangely, it is "To Kill A Mockingbird" that he's watching. We hear audio from the movie through the glass.
DAVID: Just our shortcomings. That's all we're allowed to draw.
SOFIA: ( confidently ) I've never drawn such a true likeness before.
DAVID: Mine's finished.
SOFIA: Already? Hang on. Okay - done. Sofia offers her drawing. It's a caricature of a good- looking guy surrounded by money, cars and very thin girls. He snatches it, studies it, and what he sees hurts him in surprising ways.
DAVID: ( embarrassed laugh ) Jesus. That's how you see me?
SOFIA: Maybe I didn't add enough money
DAVID: No. It's wonderful. It's something you'd see on the wall of a steak-house in hell, but it's wonderful. Sign it. Sofia's face falls a bit. She sees she's hurt him. She takes the drawing and signs it, a little guilty.
SOFIA: Let's see yours.
DAVID: She grabs it. Its a rich portrait, filled with detail, humor and style. She is rocked by its elegance.
SOFIA: Wow. I feel bad. ( regarding it carefully ) You said to draw a caricature.
DAVID: I know. I couldn't. I saw you like that.
SOFIA: Well, it's very good.
DAVID: I'll sell it to you.
SOFIA: You monster. How much for?
DAVID: One kiss. She smiles. Something is developing between them.
DAVID: That smile is gonna be the end of ( serious ) And what happens when your friend calls you tomorrow?
SOFIA: ( serious ) And what happens when your friend calls you tomorrow?
DAVID: He only met you a few hours before me. He would do the same.
SOFIA: I see that friendship is important to you.
DAVID: It is. But as his best friend, I also know that he's trying to finish a novel about inadequacy and rejection. So the longer I stay, the better it is for his Sofia smiles, shakes her head. And yawns.
SOFIA: Your career is one I'd worry David looks down. She's hit a nerve.
SOFIA: I'm sorry -
DAVID: No, no. You're more right then you even know. I used to be one of those guys who was just
SOFIA: When did you change?
DAVID: ( pause, confesses ) About five minutes ago.
SOFIA: ( direct, slightly whimsical ) Every passing minute is another chance to turn it all around. David shakes his head a little. Her words strike right to the heart of him.
SOFIA: What are you watching?
DAVID: It's the greatest show. it's called "Sofia." Sofia looks at him and smiles. They look back to the ON TV INFOMERCIAL A charming looking older-man discusses eternal life with a television interviewer.
SOFIA: ( off t.v. ) I've seen this thirty times.
DAVID: We did a story on this guy. He owns half of Arizona.
SOFIA: Is he a fraud?
DAVID: How would you ever know?
SOFIA: Good point.
SOFIA: Oh, well that's comforting. It's safe for Benny. I'm in! David moves closer to her.
SOFIA: We better watch out. They regard each other, and David gets up off the sofa. It's true. The promise is too great to not savor it, and walk away for now. Thrill remains in the air.
SOFIA: Where are you going?
DAVID: I left my number on your fridge. He makes a courtly bow and turns. She feels the loss of his company.
SOFIA: Come here, I want to tell you a He pauses a moment, and turns. In this instant, a fleeting instant, it's the oddest thing. He can see their entire
SOFIA: I meant that to be your forehead. David stands. He looks around the small apartment.
DAVID: Thank you for the inspiration. I will now attempt to run my company, showing compassion for the seething throng of my partners who root quietly for me to fail. She looks at him, quite aware of his personal and business crossroads. Silently, she roots for him like crazy.
DAVID: For things you don't even know - thank you. I'm going to go to work. I have a company to run.
SOFIA: Pleasure delayer. He is still somewhat stunned by the evening, and the girl. He actually wants to run his company.
JULIANNA: David Aames. David leans on his car, turns and shakes his head.
DAVID: Julie Gianni. You're following only a little. I wanted to finish what we were talking about.
JULIANNA: only a little. I wanted to finish what we were talking about.
DAVID: And _-
JUL IANNA: How'd it work out with our Moth Girl? Did she turn into a butterfly for you?
DAVID: Yes she did.
JULIANNA: But I can see from your walk that you didn't sleep with her. David turns.
JULIANNA: Let me see if I can guess. You haven't slept with her because. it's more fun when you can draw it out. Sex just isn't as good if the woman hasn't told all her friends she'd never sleep with You're right on the money, Julie.
DAVID: You're right on the money, Julie.
JULIANNA: She must be exhausted from trying to be witty for you all night Hey, Julie.
DAVID: Hey, Julie.
JUL IANNA: Sorry. You're just never there for your friends until they've already given up on you.
DAVID: I'm not blowing you off! I just want to be alone for a little bit. Trust me - I have a lot of things I gotta take care of. If we're friends, which we are, you'll ( simple, honest ) I'm sorry I got weird. I missed an audition and I just felt bad
JULIANNA: ( simple, honest ) I'm sorry I got weird. I missed an audition and I just felt bad
JULIANNA: Do you want to make it up to me? I won't tell a soul. Slowly, he is drawn to her. His old self rallies one last time. He gets in the car.
JULIANNA: Would you do a story about me if I made a CD?
DAVID: Sure I would -
JULIANNA: Do you like my music?
DAVID: ( winning, truthful ) It's vivid.
JULIANNA: If I weren't me, I would buy a CD by me.
DAVID: Well, you know, if you can reach one person. Julianna is a little hurt, hides it well.
JULIANNA: What is happiness to you, David?
DAVID: ( considering ) what is happiness?
JULIANNA: For me, this is happiness. Being with you. David doesn't look at her. She speeds up, slowly.
JU.LIANNA: One thing bothers me. Why did you tell Brian I was your fuck-buddy?
DAVID: I didn't tell him that. I didn't say that.
JULIANNA: When did you stop caring?
DAVID: ( watching the road ) About what
JULIANNA: About the consequences of the promises you made.
DAVID: Promises - I thought we had an Do you know how hard it is to pretend to be your "buddy?" I love you, David. You fucked me four times in one night. You have been inside me and I have swallowed your come. That means Four times, David! That means something. Four times. He grabs at the wheel. She won't let go, and speeds up.
JULIANNA: Do you know how hard it is to pretend to be your "buddy?" I love you, David. You fucked me four times in one night. You have been inside me and I have swallowed your come. That means Four times, David! That means something. Four times. He grabs at the wheel. She won't let go, and speeds up.
DAVID: Four times, David! That means something. Four times. He grabs at the wheel. She won't let go, and speeds up.
JULIANNA: Four times, David! That means something. Four times. He grabs at the wheel. She won't let go, and speeds up.
DAVID: stop the car! She picks at things on the dashboard, as she talks with a manic energy.
JULIANNA: Twenty-four hours a day I live with the aching possibility that you might call me to do something.
DAVID: ( caring, almost. pleading ) Take me to your house. We'll talk this out. I want to see where you live. I want you to stop the car, Julie. I want you to stop the Don't you know, David? Every time you sleep with someone. your body makes a promise whether you do or not?
JULIANNA: Don't you know, David? Every time you sleep with someone. your body makes a promise whether you do or not?
JULIANNA: Tell me something, David. Do you believe in God? Sweet pop music swells. She bursts the barrier of the winding road, and the car sails into an embankment of a road below. All sound disappears, as we hear a new kind of music. Ethereal, almost wondrous. This music continues.
TO BLACK: EXT. CENTRAL PARK - HALL OF TREES - DAY - DREAM David walks the hall of trees. It's the gentle seductive whoosh of a new day, the way the world sounds when you're in love. Vibrant. Alive. Ironically rich in the beauty we all take for granted when we're not in love. He looks impossibly drawn forward to Sofia, who stands waiting to meet him.
SOFIA: He steals a kiss. They both feel like they're getting away with something.
DAVID: You're amazing. Hello.
SOFIA: Did you get to work alright?
DAVID: Yeah, well, actually. I had a horrible dream.
SOFIA: You dreamed you'd never see me I left your house. I went to the car, and my friend the stalker had been following me.
DAVID: I left your house. I went to the car, and my friend the stalker had been following me.
SOFIA: Yes. She followed me down the street. She wanted to talk, and I had that buzz. from you and me, and I think my mind was on that terrible drawing of me. and, you know, I got inside. And she drove me off a bridge and committed suicide with me in the car.
DAVID: Yes. She followed me down the street. She wanted to talk, and I had that buzz. from you and me, and I think my mind was on that terrible drawing of me. and, you know, I got inside. And she drove me off a bridge and committed suicide with me in the car.
SOFIA: I thought you were going straight to work.
DAVID: But I survive! I survive with my arm and my face reconstructed. And what's worse I couldn't wake ( shushing ) How was your house after the What party? A party?
SOFIA: ( shushing ) How was your house after the What party? A party?
DAVID: What party? A party?
SOFIA: The PARTY. Remember? Red dress. strappy shoes. I spilled something on your SHIRT. sweet and sour. and the saddest girl to ever hold a martini. He looks at her, completely lost and spacy.
DAVID: I don't. I don't remember.
MCCABE: Do you dream about the car INT. BEDROOM/BATHROOM - MORNING Feet. into slippers. He shuffles down the hall. David in the dark bathroom. He pauses, and reaches slowly for the light. As in every previous occasion, he has been revealed in the mirror. But today, viewed over his shoulder, we see that the mirror is now a wooden cabinet.
DAVID: And then. I came back to life. Just like that dog, Benny. Benny The Dog.
MCCABE: ( nods, knowing ) Benny. Benny The Dog.
DAVID: Except my life was no longer normal. There were blinding migranes now.
DAVID: . nerve damage. Why? This is how big business operates. A random accident. A "lifestyle mishap?" They are not coincidences. How do you think air-tight contracts are broken? These are power upheavals.
MCCABE: I'm from Ohio - we don't have power upheavals.
DAVID: And they're in the news every day, right. between the lines. Someone did this to me. My father wrote this in his book, you know. Chapter One, Page One, Paragraph One. What is the answer to 99 out of a hundred questions? Money.
INTERCUT: INT. OFFICE _. DAY Thomas Tipp, the drunk truth-telling employee, is on the phone. David's empty office in b.g.
TIPP: David David David. I don't want to worry you, I'm holding them off. But we've got a situation here. The by-laws of the Board protect your 51% vote only if you're mentally acute. Now I'm sorry that poor girl died, but you've given the Board a real gift with your mishap. They'd like to declare you "incapacitated." But you are back, and you sound good to me -• so let's fight the fuckers._. and have a full recovery. And maybe you should let people see you. I mean, the last time we were together you were in a coma and you were very fucking rude to me. You didn't say a word. Camera reveals the extent of David's facial damage.
DAVID: Yes, well, the rumors of my death have been mildly exaggerated.
DR. POMERANZ: The cranial structure was based on thirty pins fastened by small panels and bits of bone from the mandible. and it seems the cartilage grafts have maintained your cheek structure. Unfortunately, because you were in a coma, immediate plastic surgery was impossible.
DAVID: Is that the procedure for all Bilateral Periorbital Hematomas in a LeFort III fracture of a comatose patient?
DR. POMERANZ: ( pleasantly surprised ) In a LeFort III - absolutely. The potential for sub-cranial brain damage was too great.
DAVID: And beyond the cheek grafts, Dr. Pomeranz is, are the pins fastened
DR. POMERANZ: Yes, we are working on processes. But it. you're specifically not at the stage where we can Experiment. Use me.
DAVID: Experiment. Use me.
DR. POMERANZ: The headaches will go away -
DAVID: These are more than headaches. This is like a steel plate slicing through my every thought.
DR. POMERANZ: We're not cowboys. We can't, just wing it.
DAVID: Because I can't think straight most of the time.
DR. POMERANZ: We can increase your medication.
DAVID: Yes. Medication.
DR. POMERANZ: And there are things we'll continue to investigate. But there are so many others who've not been able to benefit aesthetically from plastic surgery as you have
DAVID: This isn't about vanity, Dr. ( keeping rage bottled ) This isn't about vanity. This is about functioning in the world.
OTHER DOCTOR: We could do something about your Fuck my arm! Dr. Pomeranz looks over to a young assistant.
DAVID: Fuck my arm! Dr. Pomeranz looks over to a young assistant.
DR. POMERANZ: Nobody here takes your feelings for granted. We did prepare something for you, based on the preliminary examination.
DAVID: Tell me. Bring it on.
DR. POMERANZ: It's sometimes useful in the early stages of rejection. It's a facial prosthetic. It was two weeks in the making. The assistant opens a black-leather bound box. In it is the mask - molded from David's own face, locked into a pleasant, bland expression.
DAVID: A facial prosthetic.
DR. POMERANZ: The aesthetic replacement does work. Emotionally, and actually.
OTHER DOCTOR: ( helpfully ) And the plastic in the aesthetic shield also filters out abusive rays, and assists in the regeneration of cells.
DAVID: So it's an aesthetic regenerative DR. POMERANZ That's correct. Exactly.
DR. POMERANZ: That's correct. Exactly.
THIRD DOCTOR: And the ergonomics of the plate- barrier allows it to reflexively interact with the movements of your own face.
DAVID: I see
DR. POMERANZ: It's a helpful unit.
DAVID: Good. Because for a minute there I thought we were talking about a fucking mask!
DR. POMERANZ: ( beat ) It's only a mask if you treat it that way.
DAVID: No it's great. This completely takes care of Halloween. But what about the other 364 days of the DISSOLVE TO EXT. MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY BUILDING - NIGHT Families lined up watching the ritual blowing up of the balloons the night before Thanksgiving. Parents hug children, detailing the magical events of an autumn night. Sagging balloons come to life-
DISSOLVE TO: EXT. MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY BUILDING - NIGHT Families lined up watching the ritual blowing up of the balloons the night before Thanksgiving. Parents hug children, detailing the magical events of an autumn night. Sagging balloons come to life-
INTERCUT: INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT David stands in front of the bathroom mirror, practicing Sofia. Sofia. Sofia. Sofia. Sofia. Sofia.
DAVID: Sofia. Sofia. Sofia. Sofia. Sofia. Sofia.
DAVID: because nobody's buying books let's invest. my father was an adventurer.
INTERCUT: INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT David continues practicing aloud.
DAVID: Sofiaaaaaaaaaaa. Serrano.
DAVID: You won't believe this. but this is me smiling. She laughs a little at his strange new humor, keeps a brave It's been a long time. I tried to see you but your people wouldn't let me.
SOFIA: It's been a long time. I tried to see you but your people wouldn't let me.
DAVID: I didn't want to see me, okay. But then I woke up today and finally, a good hair day. David fights anxiety, smoothes his coat.
DAVID: You want to go out, you want to do ( convincing herself ) Let's go out and do something.
SOFIA: ( convincing herself ) Let's go out and do something.
DAVID: Let's go out and do something.
SOFIA: Let's go out and do something.
DAVID: This weekend. I'll cancel an operation or two. We'll have fun. Because I am all about fun. She kisses his cheek, pulls back quickly, and as she exits. he sees her fighting tears.
CONAN: ( off the dog's complacency ) He is thawed out, right? Laughter on the t.v. Riding the buzz of what he's watching, David dials.
DAVID: Hey listen, it's David. I'm back in your life. I saw you earlier tonight. I was just watching our old friend Benny the Dog on. on Conan. and I thought of you. ( laughs ) Whatever. I loved seeing you today. So I'll see you soon. You're a great dancer! He hangs up and feels instantly mortified. He looks at the phone in his hand.
TO BLACK: INT. CLUB - NIGHT David moves into the thick of a high-energy neighborhood dance club. He wears a facial prosthetic. In the darkness, he doesn't stick out, not much. He spots Sofia and Brian, chatting, waiting for him. The sight of the two together recalls happier times. Sofia is dressed down. Brian, on the other hand, has never looked better. His clothes are nicer. He wears them with confidence. David has practiced an opening joke, clapping his hands together. He will be trying too hard, all night long. They regard him in the mask.
SOFIA: ( a little too big ) ( equally big ) What are you drinking?
BRIAN: ( equally big ) What are you drinking?
DAVID: What are you drinking?
SOFIA: I am in the mood for cheap sugary overpriced rum-and-cokes. You want one?
BRIAN: I am in the mood for cheap sugary overpriced rum-and-cokes. You want one?
DAVID: ( spreads arms ) Is there any other kind?
BRIAN: I'll go get us some -
SOFIA: Where's the bathroom?
BRIAN: Behind. over by the place next to the door by the chick. I mean, girl who looks like Bjork. She leaves. David turns to Brian immediately.
DAVID: You look good, man. How's your Take it off.
BRIAN: Take it off.
DAVID: I can't. It's a facial shield. It's an antiseptic prosthesis to stop infections. These fucking ( with all love ) Take off the mask! It's freaking me out.
BRIAN: ( with all love ) Take off the mask! It's freaking me out.
DAVID: I can't. It's my face. This is my face.
BRIAN: Oh no. Trust me. It's a little Hey, if you're embarrassed, just go. Nobody asked you to chaperone
DAVID: Hey, if you're embarrassed, just go. Nobody asked you to chaperone
BRIAN: Sofia asked me.
DAVID: She didn't want to be alone with ( Brian regrets his words ) That's bullshit. Because I think I'm being pretty fucking cool about the whole thing.
BRIAN: Talk to a shrink! Or you can call me sometime, instead of hiding in your apartment. Don't take it out on a girl you only met ( stung ) Did she say that? I met her "once?" Did she say I met her Brian looks away. He's said too much.
DAVID: ( stung ) Did she say that? I met her "once?" Did she say I met her Brian looks away. He's said too much.
BRIAN: Cut it out. I miss the old you. We all miss the old you. Because the new guy is shit. David turns away. The perfectly wrong thing to say.
BRIAN: Oh. Man. Wait. That came out wrong. I love you - period. How's your arm, man? David shakes his head, moves toward the bar.
DAVID: Fuck you, Brian. How about no more sympathy? How about if that's the deal we make with each other? Okay? David shakes him off, goes to the bar, and rips off his mask. His head thuds from a migraine.
DAVID: Gimme a Budweiser and a shot of ( avoiding eye contact ) What kind of tequila?
BARMAN: ( avoiding eye contact ) What kind of tequila?
DAVID: What did you say to me?
BARMAN: ( leans closer, still looking down ) I said - What. Kind. Of. Why don't you ask me to my face, The barman looks up, expressionless.
DAVID: Why don't you ask me to my face, The barman looks up, expressionless.
DAVID: Patron. If you have it.
DAVID: Another shot, another Bud. He throws bills on the bar.
BARMAN: No. This is on the house.
DAVID: Why -
BARMAN: ( odd compassion ) It just is. Bitch. David looks across the club to see Sofia. A Clubgoer Guy whispers something in her ear. She shakes it off. He pounds down another shot at the bar, this time with the David regards a video monitor behind the bar. Someone's camera is fixed on Sofia dancing with Brian, and another good-looking Young Man. She playfully shoves the good- looking Young Man away, not unlike the move that won David
DAVID: David regards a video monitor behind the bar. Someone's camera is fixed on Sofia dancing with Brian, and another good-looking Young Man. She playfully shoves the good- looking Young Man away, not unlike the move that won David
DAVID: Hello again.
SOFIA: Hello again.
DAVID: Idea. Let's start all over. He regards her for a moment, sees her apprehension and How about if you help me? Unless I'm horning in here - ( beat, does her ) You are. But the food is good. He continues, taking a step.
DAVID: How about if you help me? Unless I'm horning in here - ( beat, does her ) You are. But the food is good. He continues, taking a step.
DAVID: See, I've got a little problem. I've got a stalker. ( does her ) It doesn't sound life-threatening. ( does himself, self- deprecating ) I need a cover. I need for you to pretend we're having a
SOFIA: ( a touch playful ) I don't talk like that.
DAVID: She's right across the room and she's burning a hole in my back right now, isn't she?
SOFIA: Red dress, strappy shoes?
DAVID: That's right! Their heads are close together, looking off into the club. David doesn't notice that Sofia is having a hard time playing along with this game. She is overwhelmed, holding it in. David continues.
DAVID: I think she' s the saddest girl to ever hold a martini.
SOFIA: ( about to burst ) Are you okay?
DAVID: Are you okay?
SOFIA: What's wrong? Is it me?
DAVID: What's wrong? Is it me?
SOFIA: I'll tell you later.
DAVID: Come on. Tell me now. Something's wrong. Tell me everything. Let's talk about it right now.
SOFIA: I'll tell you in another life. when we are both cats. David looks at her. His eyes flash at her choice of words. Perhaps there is hope. Sofia stares at. him, worried about his sanity as he goes overboard with his praise of her turn of a phrase. Push into close-ups as they struggle to deal with the discomfort of this moment.
DAVID: I don't believe you just said that. That. is the best thing I've ever heard. That is hilarious. God, that just killed me. The way you said that. See - that's what I love about you. "I'll tell you in another life when we are both EXT. CLUB STREET - NIGHT David, Brian and Sofia walk swiftly down the street in silence. David weaves. They are anxious to pretend it was a wonderful evening.
SOFIA: Well, this is where I leave you.
BRIAN: Wait. I'll walk you to your door.
SOFIA: No, I live just around the corner.
BRIAN: I've got my bike here.
SOFIA: I'd rather walk.
DAVID: Don't be a drag. Can't you see she wants to go on her own?
BRIAN: Shut up, you're drunk.
DAVID: I may be an idiot, but I'm not Seriously, I don't need you to walk me home. Thank you.
BRIAN: Seriously, I don't need you to walk me home. Thank you.
SOFIA: Seriously, I don't need you to walk me home. Thank you.
BRIAN: Okay then. So. We'll call you.
SOFIA: ( unconvincing ) Great. We'll go catch a movie or So. We'll meet up soon. The word sounds a lot like goodbye and they both know it.
SOFIA: So. We'll meet up soon. The word sounds a lot like goodbye and they both know it.
DAVID: We'll meet up soon. Sofia turns and runs away.
DAVID: ( lacking all pride ) We'll call you again to go out with me!
BRIAN: We'll call you. David and Brian walk on. Brian turns back to see Sofia running to the corner.
BRIAN: Well, it's been a real blast, David. I bid you good evening.
DAVID: Where you going?
BRIAN: My bike. It's back over there. We'll hang soon. Bring your mask if you want. I'm getting used to Wait a minute.
DAVID: Wait a minute.
BRIAN: ( stops ) ( shrugs ) I don't know.
DAVID: ( shrugs ) I don't know.
BRIAN: You drank a little too much. Call me tomorrow if you want.
DAVID: Tomorrow I'll wish I was dead.
BRIAN: ( starts in Sofia's direction ) No you won't. You just need to ( Brian's itching to go ) What did you say to Julie Gianni the night of the accident?
DAVID: ( Brian's itching to go ) What did you say to Julie Gianni the night of the accident?
BRIAN: ( Brian's itching to go ) What did you say to Julie Gianni the night of the accident?
DAVID: What did you say to Julie Gianni the night of the accident?
BRIAN: You told her she was a "fuck And she was a little more than pissed about it.
DAVID: You told her she was a "fuck And she was a little more than pissed about it.
BRIAN: And she was a little more than pissed about it.
DAVID: And she was a little more than pissed about it.
BRIAN: ( a little guilty ) Have you been harboring this shit all along? I never talked to her.
DAVID: Whatever. I mean - who am I, if I can't. be the one who tells you you're not ugly? Aw, give me a courtesy laugh. Come on! Brian shakes his head, starts running.
DAVID: Brian!! I'm so fucked up. I'm just so fucked up! Brian stops one last time, irritated, at the far end of the We're best friends! We're bros! Brian needs to rid himself of David. He turns and runs in the direction of Sofia. David feels the deep pangs of rejection. Breathing hard. His head hurts. His body hurts.
DAVID: We're best friends! We're bros! Brian needs to rid himself of David. He turns and runs in the direction of Sofia. David feels the deep pangs of rejection. Breathing hard. His head hurts. His body hurts.
DAVID: Come on, man, we're bros. Beat. He sprints down the middle of the street after EXT. CLUB STREET/SOFIA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT David runs frantically, heartbroken and sobbing.
HIS MIND: Brian catches up to Sofia. She turns, relieved. They kiss messily, hungrily. Her shoes arch to reach his height. David runs the streets, nearing her home. The images are tearing his mind apart. He stops and leans against a car, unsteady and nauseous. Holding his head in pain, he manages to run further. David stops on the street outside her apartment. His sobs overwhelm him. He drops to the pavement. He passes out, mouth agape. The empty street visible in the b.g., his hand loosens its grip on the mask.
WOMAN'S VOICE: Open your eyes. open your EXT. SOFIA'S APARTMENT EARLY MORNING David is passed out, the mask is still clutched in his hand. A Butterfly crosses frame. A hand enters, resting on his shoulder.
WOMAN'S VOICE: This is a cheap ploy for sympathy. David wakes up and looks into the kind face of Julie He recoils. His vision sharpens. In the morning shadows, with increasing focus, we see that it is actually Sofia.
JULIANNA: He recoils. His vision sharpens. In the morning shadows, with increasing focus, we see that it is actually Sofia.
DAVID: No, I'm okay -
DAVID POV: Sofia examines him with a look of concern and understanding. Everything takes on a clear and sharp focus. Behind her is a beautiful vanilla sky.
SOFIA: And it worked. Get up.
DAVID: Ugh -
SOFIA: ( helping him up ) That's right. I agree. Ugh.
DAVID: This is a joke.
SOFIA: ( touches his cheek ) David. I'm not going to lie to you. I liked the way you looked. But if you don't pull it together, I'll forget the other guy. You know that. other guy - YOU?
DAVID: ( groggy ) I'm still that guy. I'm still that guy. Sofia speaks with rapid-fire conviction, as if she might change her mind if she thought about it too much.
SOFIA: I don't. have a mother-savior bone in my body. It's not about that. You're coming inside. But if this
DAVID: I am still that guy.
SOFIA: Shut up.
DAVID: Where's Brian?
SOFIA: He went with you, didn't he?
DAVID: ( shaking head at his own paranoia ) I thought you guys hooked up. She stops in profile with him. She's astonished at his jealousy. Then:
SOFIA: ( raw truth ) I wish you hadn't gotten in the car with that girl.
DAVID: ( a long apology is coming ) Sofia. I'm. She covers his mouth, nose and face. Only his eyes remain.
SOFIA: Your eyes apologized better. Come Portrait of the two, her leading him to the door, the crisp glycerine morning overhead.
SOFIA: Holy God, this is going to change my life in a zillion different ways. I must be nuts.
MCCABE: I see you haven't been wasting your time. Do you ever draw anything else? All the drawings are of Sofia, drawn in a similar fashion. David is a little jumpy, a little amped. He moves to the window. The yard is filled with prisoners.
DAVID: Did you sleep last night.?
MCCABE: Did you sleep last night.?
DAVID: No. I did not sleep.
MCCABE: I've got to leave early today, so you'll have to be brief. Now. What can you tell me about the name "Ellie?"
DAVID: Is that a girl you knew? A girl you were in love with?
MCCABE: Is that a girl you knew? A girl you were in love with?
DAVID: I've only been in love once.
MCCABE: Apparently, you kept repeating it last night. You did sleep, David, and your advisor said you cried out, you had a nightmare.
DAVID: Everything is a nightmare
MCCABE: You cried out for "Ellie," David. Do you remember what happened?
DAVID: No. no.
MCCABE: Dig deep, David. Dig deep. You cried out for Ellie. What do you remember about Ellie? Show me your face, David. Help me. Open the door. David rises and goes to the prison window. ANGLE ON McCABE In powerful framing, lower shot capturing him powerfully.
MCCABE: ( digging deeper', aching to help ) It's true you had an accident. It's true you were disfigured, but not anymore. Do you remember?! ( with certainty ) They did fix your face. Take off that mask, David. You'll see your face is perfect under there.
DAVID: I never trusted the Doctors. What happened next was surreal. That same arrogant bastard, Dr.
DR. POMERANZ: ( warmly ) David! Hey, my brother. I felt. really bad about our last CLOSE ON DAVID He'd discovered a new form of reconstructive surgery, with the help of a doctor from Berlin.
DAVID: He'd discovered a new form of reconstructive surgery, with the help of a doctor from Berlin.
DAVID: The next thing I knew they shot me full of drugs I'd never heard of and away we went.
MCCABE: Suspicious of whom? Of what?
DAVID: Once you've been driven off a bridge at 80 miles an hour, somehow you don't invite happiness in without a full body search.
MCCABE: Well, at the risk of boring you, I can present the alternate argument. I once knew a guy who was a real loner. And one day he woke up at 40, with two daughters who lit his life up with purpose. Suddenly he goes to endless school plays, he gets home at 9:20 for the evening discussion, and he has the time of his life. His favorite Beatle was once John, and now it's Paul.
DAVID: I always liked. George.
MCCABE: It all depends on the individual, doesn't it? Tell me. What's happiness for you?
JULIANNA: What's happiness to you, David?
DAVID: How about another question -
MCCABE: Well, you won't show me your face. So back to the time-line. Hurry. Let's move through this.
SOFIA: You've got to take the plates off, I don't want to know what's under It's going to be fine, you'll see.
DAVID: I don't want to know what's under It's going to be fine, you'll see.
SOFIA: It's going to be fine, you'll see.
DAVID: I already called Pomeranz and switched it to Wednesday.
SOFIA: I hope that shrew at the front desk gave you shit about it.
DAVID: I'll go in the morning. The car'll be fixed. She advances, takes his face in her hands. She tugs at the corner of one of the plates.
SOFIA: Good, because I know that the problem wouldn't be you delaying something you were dreading.
DAVID: Couldn't be that.
SOFIA: Nooooo, it couldn't be that. She pulls off one of the plates.
SOFIA: I mean, I agree, it's very important to have. She pulls off another one of the plates. She grows a bit . the right car. She pulls off another one of the plates. Tearing slightly.
SOFIA: . the right car. She pulls off another one of the plates. Tearing slightly.
SOFIA: . to take you where you want to go. 24 hours a day. Quadrant by quadrant, his face is restored to a pale- skinned and tender. perfection.
DAVID: How bad is it?
SOFIA: Well, your ears are in the right place. And the rest of it is. not too bad at all. Tenderly she kisses, and hugs him.
SOFIA: Do you love me? I mean, really love me. because if you don't, I'll just. have to kill you.
DAVID: In my next life I want to come back as this mole -
SOFIA: I love you. I love you. I love - I could live right there.
DAVID: - I could live right there.
SOFIA: Is this a dream?
DAVID: Oh absolutely. She grabs his face, kisses him. a powerful moment, like few others in this life.
BRIAN: What, did she say?
DAVID: ( in love ) I have no idea. Brian shakes his head.
DAVID: How's things, Brian?
BRIAN: David's face is huge in the Brian's viewfinder.
DAVID: How's things, Brian?
BRIAN: Don't flatter yourself. I'm fine. Besides - Sofia is great, but by no means one-ofa-kind. She was a proximity infatuation. Brian, naturally suspicious and somewhat jealous, spots a writer at a nearby table making notes.
BRIAN: ( to writer ) And don't use that, it's mine. The writer looks busted.
DAVID: Where'd you get the camera?
BRIAN: I'm into things. you have no Well, as long as you're okay.
DAVID: Well, as long as you're okay.
BRIAN: And anyway, we're friends, aren't David offers his hand. They shake.
DAVID: David offers his hand. They shake.
DAVID'S POV: David's gaze moves to a 40 year-old man staring at him with a bemused smile. A plate of food sits in front of him. His eyes suggest a piercing intellect, he looks at David with deep familiarity. David can't quite place the face.
BRIAN: Hey what's up with your face? Fuck, there's a seam opening or ( mounting horror ) What - what are you talking about? Brian laughs. The spell is broken. Friends again.
DAVID: ( mounting horror ) What - what are you talking about? Brian laughs. The spell is broken. Friends again.
DAVID: You asshole!
SOFIA: Was I snoring?
DAVID: ( still breathing heavily ) No, I think it was me. Thirsty, that's all. She kisses his hand reassuringly.
SOFIA: I'm dreaming about you. Mmmmmmm. He gets up and goes to the bathroom.
SOFIA: ( small laugh ) I could listen to you say "mmmmm" for the rest of my life.
DAVID: ( small laugh ) I could listen to you say "mmmmm" for the rest of my life.
SOFIA: They kiss. The kiss expands, as he moves to the back of her neck. He caresses her body. She kisses his fingertips. Her back to him. Tangled in sheets, they ease into lovemaking with the perfect fit of two bodies meant for each other. He gently grabs a handful of her hair. His hand stops. It's not Sofia's hair. He slowly turns her face to his, and we glimpse David over the shoulder of the woman who is not Sofia. He leaps out of bed, falling to the floor, the sheet tangled around him. He turns on the light. Julie Gianni hides her face from the light, like a night animal caught in the intrusive glare of day. When she speaks, it is with Sofia's cadence and accent.
JULIANNA: ( scared, uncomprehending ) Baby, what's wrong? He gasps for breath, backing away. Totally terrified. Paralyzed. In a low voice:
DAVID: Where. Is. She.
JULIANNA: His instinct is to protect his lifeline Sofia - and he pounces on her with a manic will to survive.
JULIANNA: ( taunting, sweet ) I'm Sofia.
DAVID: Now I'm going to make sure that I tie this four times. Do you know why, Julie? Because four times really means something. David pulls his pants on, frantically opens the wardrobe closet. No Sofia. Goes to the kitchen. No Sofia. Julie sobs quietly, sweetly, tied to the bed. She behaves and acts like Sofia.
JULIANNA: David, don't hurt me. David returns and sits across from her on the bed, terrified and barely hanging on.
DAVID: Okay, I'm freaked out. It worked. So just tell me right now - where is Sofia?
JULIANNA: I am Sofia.
DAVID: In one minute I'm going to call the police
JULIANNA: ( heart breaking ) Don't do it, honey.
DAVID: I knew you'd survived the She looks at him with tearful eyes.
JULIANNA: What. accident?
DAVID: Whose body was it? Who's the one who hired you? The Seven Dwarves?
JULIANNA: I haven't had any accident!
DAVID: No, of course not. It wasn't an accident at all. It was attempted Honey, please. He picks up the phone. Dials 911.
JULIANNA: Honey, please. He picks up the phone. Dials 911.
DAVID: Police Department? I've captured an intruder who's entered my home. He turns to her. Her eyes are yearning.
TIPP: Guys, can you give us a minute here? Detective Larson. Detective Andrews. thank you. The room empties, and Tipp approaches David.
DAVID: They think that I had something to so with this.
TIPP: I'm going to handle this exactly the way your father would have handled this. I've got it solved.
DAVID: You've got it solved? Where is She's going to be fine. David hugs Tipp.
TIPP: She's going to be fine. David hugs Tipp.
DAVID: Thank God you're here, man. I love her.
TIPP: Yeah. Now, I want you to look at these photos and then I'm going to destroy them. Sofia's testimony is also in here. It won't exist. She's not going to press charges.
DAVID: Press charges against. me?
TIPP: David, wake up. As your friend, I think you should see what you did to Sofia. The press won't get hold of this if you get. away David leans back in his seat. It's all of them - everybody - against him. Tipp opens a file thick with paperwork, two computer discs and photos. He displays a photo to David, moving it into the light so he sees it clearly. Julie Gianni, battered.
DAVID: This is Julie Gianni. That's not Sofia. This is Julie Gianni. I didn't do that do that to her. ( beginning to shut down ) Tommy, someone's setting me up.
TIPP: David, the Board and I have taken care of everything. They've been really great, actually. All of this is going to disappear. We're all behind you. even the Board. David looks at Tipp. It's very clear now. He's one of them. David attempts calm.
TIPP: ( quiet, helpful ) Get out of here. A migraine is thundering in David's head. His world is spinning backwards.
BRIAN: You're in fucking sad shape, man. Don't fucking ever hit a girl, man. Hit me, but don't fucking EVER hit a girl. David looks up sees a small security camera trained on them - pulls Brian out of the station.
DAVID: It wasn't Sofia. It was Julie.
BRIAN: Oh. it was Julie Gianni. So, Sofia was abducted by Julie, and now Julie is posing as Sofia.
DAVID: You're in O.J. land, man. Julie Gianni is fucking dead!
BRIAN: You're in O.J. land, man. Julie Gianni is fucking dead!
DAVID: I don't know what the cops have told you, but let me assure you - Julie Gianni is alive alive ALIVE.
BRIAN: I didn't talk to the cops. I talked to Sofia!
DAVID: Where is she?
BRIAN: I just dropped Sofia off. And I saw everything you did to her.
DAVID: Let me tell you something - I did not do that to her. Look me in the eye and tell me that it was the same girl you brought to the party. Tell me it was your dream girl, your "proximity ( raw, finally ) Yes! And you stole her from me! David backs away, as Brian responds bitterly, from his The one girl I really wanted, and you took her from me. You're insane. You're losing it, man. David nods powerfully. He now understands. Brian is one of them too.
BRIAN: ( raw, finally ) Yes! And you stole her from me! David backs away, as Brian responds bitterly, from his The one girl I really wanted, and you took her from me. You're insane. You're losing it, man. David nods powerfully. He now understands. Brian is one of them too.
BRIAN: The one girl I really wanted, and you took her from me. You're insane. You're losing it, man. David nods powerfully. He now understands. Brian is one of them too.
DAVID: You have revealed yourself.
BRIAN: Oh yeah, I'm with them.
DAVID: Where'd you get the coat, Brian? Where'd you get the camera? How much did they pay you?
BRIAN: Listen to me, 'cause it's the last time we're ever gonna speak. I was your only friend.
DAVID: You have revealed yourself to me.
VENTURA: ( takes a sip ) I'm in no mood to be fucked with. So do yourself a favor and le -
DAVID: ( takes a sip ) I'm in no mood to be fucked with. So do yourself a favor and le -
VENTURA: There's an explanation for all this, David.
DAVID: Who the fuck are you?
VENTURA: You and I know each other. You found me on the Internet. Silence. David stares at the man.
DAVID: What do you want? Why are you following me?
VENTURA: I'm here to help you. And first of all, it's very important that you calm down.
DAVID: Calm down?
VENTURA: You must overcome your fears and regain control. Take hold of your life again. It's as easy as holding that glass. What if I told you that you can take control of all of this. everything. even me. David turns to him.
DAVID: Look. I'm straight, okay?
VENTURA: David, look at these people. It seems as though they're chatting away, doesn't it? Nothing to do with you -
VENTURA: and yet, they might only be here because you wanted them to be. You are their God. And not only that, you could make them obey you. or even destroy you. David shakes his head, exhausted and in no mood. He shuts his eyes, fights off a headache.
DAVID: ( cutting him off ) What I'd like them to do is shut up! Especially you! Silence. David opens his eyes. They're all staring at him. Casually waiting for orders.
VENTURA: You see? David looks at him with horror, backing away. Receding in his vision:
VENTURA: You and I signed a contract, INT. PRISON PSYCHIATRIC UNIT - DAY - ( INTERROGATION # 4 ) McCabe is taut, following the thread. His voice calming.
MCCABE: Who is the man in the restaurant? Who is it?
DAVID: I can' t.
MCCABE: Can you tell the difference between dreams and reality?
DAVID: Of course. Can you?
MCCABE: Think about it. Think with your head. You signed a contract, did you not.?
RACING THOUGHTS: A woman walks down the hallway, looking back. Flash of papers signed.
DAVID: I signed something.
MCCABE: Was the man at the restaurant McCabe's voice becomes infinitely calm and helpful.
DAVID: Accept your body's resistance. Let your head answer.
MCCABE: Accept your body's resistance. Let your head answer.
DAVID: That's right. Who is Ellie?
MCCABE: That's right. Who is Ellie?
DAVID: I. I don't know what's real.
MCCABE: What happened that night, David? Somebody died.
DAVID: I don't want to remember.
MCCABE: Do you understand that you hold the keys to this prison?
DAVID: It wasn't Sofia.
MCCABE: Who was it?
DAVID: Who was it?
MCCABE: Who was it?
DAVID: You want to let it out, don't you David? You're about to tell me. Tell me what your heart and soul will not allow you to forget. David shudders. It's coming.
MCCABE: You want to let it out, don't you David? You're about to tell me. Tell me what your heart and soul will not allow you to forget. David shudders. It's coming.
MCCABE: Did you kill Sofia? McCabe stands tall, stunned and curious, still pressing to pull the nightmare out of him.
JULIANNA: I thought you were a vandal.
DAVID: ( with difficulty ) Who. are. you?
JULIANNA: I'm Sofia.
DAVID: You are not Sofia. you're not I'm Sofia.
JULIANNA: I'm Sofia.
DAVID: Julie starts to cry. Battling tears, she offers her heart and soul.
JULIANNA: David, honey. This will all be over soon. We'll be together again. You'll forget Julianna and I won't be afraid of you. Let me get you a cold towel. She exits. He struggles to rise. His head is a swirling mess. And then:
DAVID: ( whispers ) Yes, David, I'm Sofia. I'm Sofia. He accepts it, all of it, whatever it is, just to hold her. They kiss, gently, then more powerfully.
SOFIA: ( whispers ) Yes, David, I'm Sofia. I'm Sofia. He accepts it, all of it, whatever it is, just to hold her. They kiss, gently, then more powerfully.
DAVID: Where were you. Sofia doesn't answer, doesn't want to lose the moment.
DAVID: I don't want to know. ( thrusting ) Just tell me you love me. David keeps his face buried in her shoulder'. He doesn't want to look. The passion gives way to a mounting dread, as he hears a voice almost like Sofia's.
DAVID: What the fuck is happening? Julie begins to react to what is clearly no longer an advanced lovemaking session.
DAVID: I want to see your face! She grabs at the pillow.
DAVID: I want to see your face! David reaches orgasm, sobbing, recklessly out of control. Julie's body stops kicking and settles into silence. He loosens the pillow, and is rewarded with one last violent attempt at life. Her hand smacks his neck. He's so taut it bounces off. She grabs at his face one last time, her hand is left with enough power only to caress his face. She goes limp. Silence. David's crying turns to a whimper. He looks at the pillow over Julie's head. He's confused, a puddle of jagged adrenaline. He doesn't want to remove the pillow for fear of who could be underneath. He rises up, his elbow across her lifeless chest. With true horror, he knows he has to move his hand, but his hand will reveal who he's just killed.
DAVID: I did it, didn't I? I don't. feel. like I killed someone. I feel like.
MCCABE: David, who.
DAVID: I'm in a dream.
MCCABE: . was the man at the restaurant? David shakes his head.
MCCABE: ( pained ) Sometimes the mind behaves as if it were in a dream. Faces change, people become other people. The subconscious is a powerful thing. You treated Julie carelessly, didn't you, David? Your feeling of responsibility or guilt over Julie might have easily turned Sofia into Julie. ( pause ) Do you know what derangement is?
DAVID: I need your help.
MCCABE: All I know is, you killed your girlfriend and I don't know what's in your mind.
DAVID: I need your help.
MCCABE: I'd work on this case forever if I could, but we've run out of time.
DAVID: What will you plead?
MCCABE: Temporary derangement. It's your best chance. They won't believe What do you believe?
DAVID: What do you believe?
MCCABE: Believe it or not, I care about you. You've become like family to me. I don't want to give up on David looks at, him oddly. Suddenly, the archetype seems very familiar. McCabe continues with the noble concern of a towering father figure.
MCCABE: ( continued ) But I needed more. I needed an answer. I. I even thought there was more than a good chance someone was playing tricks on you. Maybe it was the board. But I can't exceed my duties here. I'm just a psychologist, and I have to leave you.
DAVID: Will I see you at the trial?
MCCABE: No. I'm just the opening act. He exits. David sits at. the table as McCabe and Aaron exit. He hears Aaron's television; it's the Life Extension INT. AARON'S CUBICLE - NIGHT Through the glass of the psychiatric unit, we see McCabe and Aaron exit. Only Aaron's television, sitting on a stool, remains. Push in on the television, which is playing the L.E. Infomercial. Push in on the reverse. It's David at the window as he realizes the true meaning of "Ellie" L.E. He bangs on the glass, at first slow, then faster, yelling for McCabe. The L.E. Infomercial and Benny the Dog are reflected on the McCABE!!! McCABE!!! COME BACK!!!
DAVID: McCABE!!! McCABE!!! COME BACK!!!
COME BACK!!!: INT. PRISON CORRIDOR - DAY McCabe hustles down the hallway with David. McCabe stands tall, moving forward, like Atticus Finch with Tom Robinson.
MCCABE: ( to Building Guard ) Life Extension Corporation, What -
GUARD: What -
MCCABE: ( a look to David ) L.E. We hold a court order.
DAVID: I think I've been here before - McCabe strides purposefully past the Building Guard. Aaron shows the pass, and hustles to keep up.
DAY: The elevator door opens to reveal a very pleasant and peaceful environment. Comfortable lounging chairs. On the reception station is written - L.E. and underneath it the words: Life Extension Corporation. Two more Guards meet
DAVID: Her name is Libby. A stunning young woman rises and moves to greet them.
LIBBY: Good morning. I'm Libby. I'm here to assist you. Libby stares at David's masked face. It's slightly unsettling to her.
MCCABE: He's my son. He's very shy.
LIBBY: ( smiling professionally ) You're not. with the media or part. of any legal consortium, correct?
MCCABE: Welcome to Life Extension. Have a look at our proposal. Please follow me. She-offers them two bound folders featuring the logo - L.E. - and guides them down the hallway, looking back with great style, beckoning, just as in David's dream recollections.
LIBBY: Welcome to Life Extension. Have a look at our proposal. Please follow me. She-offers them two bound folders featuring the logo - L.E. - and guides them down the hallway, looking back with great style, beckoning, just as in David's dream recollections.
MCCABE: ( to Aaron ) You can wait out here.
LIBBY: You'll be meeting Rebecca ( aside ) My personal role model.
PATIENT #1: .and I'm not a "true believer" by nature. But the older you get, the more you see the flow of the future, and I made a choice.
PATIENT #2: .why not embrace the future? I Believe the research - the future is in the union of the spiritual. and the scientific. Annoyed at everything around him, McCabe pulls David INT. LIFE EXTENSION OFFICE - DAY Aames and McCabe sit and wait in a warm wood-paneled office, proposals in hand. A glimpse shows words like Re- Evolve and Re-Experience, peppered with colorful photos of simple, life-affirming portraits of everyday life. It's well-appointed and well-marketed organization. McCabe regards David as the victim of a lunatic's scam. Injustice fuels McCabe.
MCCABE: ( continuing, scoffing ) "Cryonization - a journey of re- awakening after the preservation of the human body at extremely low They laughed at Jules Verne too.
DAVID: They laughed at Jules Verne too.
MCCABE: ( a little sadly ) David, you're not- Account Liaison REBECCA DEARBORN enters with paperwork. She is an electric presence. Efficient, caring and oddly Mr. McCabe, how are you? I'm Rebecca Dearborn. ( quick notice of mask ) Life Extension, or L.E. as we like to refer to it, is a glimpse of the future. a ticket. not in the juvenile sense, but in the deeply meaningful sense that can only be borne in the human heart.
DEARBORN: Mr. McCabe, how are you? I'm Rebecca Dearborn. ( quick notice of mask ) Life Extension, or L.E. as we like to refer to it, is a glimpse of the future. a ticket. not in the juvenile sense, but in the deeply meaningful sense that can only be borne in the human heart.
DEARBORN: Within an hour of your passing, L.E. will transfer your body to a vessel where you will be sealed and frozen at 196 degrees below zero. Power outages, earthquakes, nothing will effect your Did you sign this contract, David? David looks down at pamphlet, looks up.
MCCABE: Did you sign this contract, David? David looks down at pamphlet, looks up.
DAVID: What's the "Lucid Dream" option?
DEARBORN: Good choice. The Lucid Dream is Life Extension's newest option. For a little extra, we offer the cryonic union of science and ( rueful, skeptical ) "Cryo-tainment. " Dearborn spreads apart the paperwork on her desk to reveal a thin Video Monitor built into the glass table-top. Aames and McCabe peer into the tabletop as Dearborn presses Some find this presentation ON MONITOR - THE PRESENTATION An appealing presentation begins Man's Life. A generic happy-looking Man with graphics floating out of his mouth: Re-Emerge . . Re-Store .ReInvent.a voice takes over for Dearborn. A wonderfully comforting tone is present in the narration. Like that of a parent.
MCCABE: ( rueful, skeptical ) "Cryo-tainment. " Dearborn spreads apart the paperwork on her desk to reveal a thin Video Monitor built into the glass table-top. Aames and McCabe peer into the tabletop as Dearborn presses Some find this presentation ON MONITOR - THE PRESENTATION An appealing presentation begins Man's Life. A generic happy-looking Man with graphics floating out of his mouth: Re-Emerge . . Re-Store .ReInvent.a voice takes over for Dearborn. A wonderfully comforting tone is present in the narration. Like that of a parent.
DEARBORN: Some find this presentation ON MONITOR - THE PRESENTATION An appealing presentation begins Man's Life. A generic happy-looking Man with graphics floating out of his mouth: Re-Emerge . . Re-Store .ReInvent.a voice takes over for Dearborn. A wonderfully comforting tone is present in the narration. Like that of a parent.
INTERCUT: ON MONITOR - THE PRESENTATION An appealing presentation begins Man's Life. A generic happy-looking Man with graphics floating out of his mouth: Re-Emerge . . Re-Store .ReInvent.a voice takes over for Dearborn. A wonderfully comforting tone is present in the narration. Like that of a parent.
NARRATION: Portrait of a modern human life. American, male. ( highlighting stage ) ( highlighting another stage ) and Death. Imagine that you are suffering from a terminal illness. You'd like to be cryonized, but you'd rather be resurrected to continue your own life, as you know it now. L.E. offers you the answer. Upon resurrection you will continue in an ageless state - preserved - but living in the "present" with a future of your choosing.
NARRATION: Another chapter begins seamlessly, a living dream. Life Extension's promise to you. Life Part Two.
DEARBORN: A living dream.
MCCABE: Your death will be wiped from your memory. I guess I missed that one in USA Today. David sits, reeling from the revelation he may be living a Lucid Dream.
DAVID: . a dream. What if there was a mistake? What if the dream became a nightmare?
DEARBORN: Of course, your subconscious can always play tricks on you. The subconscious is a very powerful thing -
MCCABE: Did you sign a contract with these people, David?
DEARBORN: ( continuing ) -but this is a serious business. The Lucid Dream is worth the risk.
DEARBORN: I love you, David. Te Quiero. Roam free, David. Most of us live our whole lives with no real adventure to call our own. It's hard to comprehend-but they laughed at Jules Verne too.
DAVID: I want to wake up! I want to wake Aaron grabs for him. David wrenches free.
DAVID: TECH SUPPORT! David runs down the corridor and into the elevator, Aaron chasing after him.
TECH SUPPORT!: David runs down the corridor and into the elevator, Aaron chasing after him.
DAVID: It's a nightmare! The doors shut. Music rising.
DAVID: Tech Support!! Music stops. We hear the ding of the elevator.
VENTURA: David Aames. I think it's time we had a proper re-introduction. I'm Edmund Ventura from the oasis Project, formerly Life Extension •
DAVID: Tech support.
VENTURA: Yes, I'm your Tech Support. We first met 150 years ago.
DAVID: Oh shit. You sold me the Lucid Ventura smiles.
DAVID: Well, what the hell happened?
VENTURA: I tried to warn you in the bar. I told you to exercise control, that it all depended on your mind. All of this, everything is your creation. And we're now heading toward your true moment, of choice.
DAVID: "True moment of choice?"
VENTURA: When did the Lucid Dream begin?
DAVID: When did the Lucid Dream begin?
VENTURA: Remember the day of the nightclub?
DAVID: ( trying to remember ) EXT. SOFIA'S APARTMENT NIGHT - FLASHBACK David is collapsed on the ground. His mask clutched in his hand, passed out. Rhythmic score.
VENTURA: ( with importance ) That night, when Sofia left you and you fell asleep on the pavement, that was the moment you chose for the splice.
DAVID: ( remembers the word ) The splice?
VENTURA: Splice. The end of your "real" life and the beginning of L.E.'s Lucid Dream. A splice of many years which passed while you were frozen and dreaming.
SOFIA: Open your eyes. They walk away, down the street, into a beautiful Vanilla Sky. Sofia slips her arm around his shoulder, as we've seen earlier.
VENTURA: From the moment you woke up on that street, nothing was "real" in
VENTURA: Forgive me. I'm blowing your David looks down with dread.
DAVID: I'm not a big fan of heights.
VENTURA: I know. ( continuing ) We erased what really happened from your memory.
DAVID: ( reaching to understand ) Replaced by a better life under these beautiful Monet-like skies.
VENTURA: Replaced by a better life under these beautiful Monet-like skies.
DAVID: ( recognizing pieces ) My mother's favorite.
VENTURA: That's right.. A better life because you had Sofia.
VENTURA: And you sculpted your Lucid Dream out of the iconography of your A FLASH OF FAMILIAR IMAGES from the life and psyche of his youth. Mirrored in David's life in moments we've already seen.
VENTURA: An album cover that once moved An album cover?
DAVID: An album cover?
VENTURA: a movie you once saw late at night that showed you what a father could be like.
VENTURA: or what love could be like.
VENTURA: This was a kind woman, an individual, more than your equal. Ventura nods wistfully. He fell in love with her a little, You barely knew her in real life, but. in your Lucid Dream, she was your savior.
VENTURA: You barely knew her in real life, but. in your Lucid Dream, she was your savior.
DAVID: What happened in my real life? Something happened. What did you Do you really want to know?
VENTURA: Do you really want to know?
DAVID: Tell me everything.
VENTURA: The morning after the nightclub, you woke up on that street, hung- over and along. You got up and walked away. You never saw Sofia I didn't kill Sofia.
DAVID: I didn't kill Sofia.
VENTURA: ON DAVID - IN ELEVATOR He can't remember any of this. And then.
VENTURA: You battled your board, the Seven Dwarves, for control. In the end it was Thomas Tipp, your father's
DAVID: ( warmly ) ( vague memories ) But then. somebody died.
VENTURA: You longed for Sofia. You shut yourself away for months. You were alone. You couldn't take the pain anymore. Headaches. you could barely function.
DAVID: I found you on the Internet. I signed the contract with you. And INT. MOTEL - NIGHT FLASHBACK Aames takes pills, collapses. Music plays.
DAVID: I remember. It comes back to him, powerfully.
DAVID: Somebody died. It was me.
VENTURA: And on a day in late December, you gave yourself to us. You're now in a suspended state.
VENTURA: Your friend Brian Shelby threw a three-day memorial in your old home. He was a true friend.
VENTURA: You were missed, David. She moves into close-up, and we see the wonder and the joy of a perfect love, nearly attained. She soaks in the beautiful, painful mystery of life.
VENTURA: It was Sofia who never fully recovered. It was she who somehow knew you best. And like you, she never forgot that one night where real, true love seemed possible.
VENTURA: Consequences, David. It's the little things.
DAVID: ( tears in eyes ) The little things. There's nothing bigger, is there?
VENTURA: Your subconscious did create problems. Your dream turned into a nightmare. The glitch has been So all I have to do is imagine something? If I wanted McCabe to come back, right now - McCabe comes flying out of the door.
DAVID: So all I have to do is imagine something? If I wanted McCabe to come back, right now - McCabe comes flying out of the door.
MCCABE: David. Listen to me. These people are dangerous. We're in trouble. We need to get off this roof now.
MCC DAVID: Who turns from McCabe to Ventura. Ventura leads David away.
VENTURA: We're now on "pause". And you're about to return to your Lucid ( continuing ) .. with all of the upgrades. You won't remember any of this, nor be charged for the technical support. it is now your moment of choice. You can return to your Lucid Dream, and live a beautiful life
MCCABE: ( continuing ) .. with all of the upgrades. You won't remember any of this, nor be charged for the technical support. it is now your moment of choice. You can return to your Lucid Dream, and live a beautiful life
VENTURA: ( continuing ) .. with all of the upgrades. You won't remember any of this, nor be charged for the technical support. it is now your moment of choice. You can return to your Lucid Dream, and live a beautiful life
DAVID: The world out. there. And you can bring me back, just. like Benny the CLOSE ON VENTURA The client is starting to understand.
VENTURA: Yes. Just like Benny the Dog. Your face and body can now be fixed, of course. But it's very different out there now. Your finances won't last long. Your panel of observers are waiting for you to choose. Ventura gestures into the camera. He begins walking backwards to the roof's ledge.
VENTURA: There are no guarantees. But remember, even in the future, the sweet is never as sweet without the sour. David sees that Brian Shelby has now joined McCabe on the roof. He nods to Brian, who nods back.
DAVID: How do I wake up?
VENTURA: The decision is yours. Ventura glances over the edge.
DAVID: And I chose this scenario, didn't
I?: ( enjoying that he understands ) Yes, to face your last remaining fear of heights.
VENTURA: ( enjoying that he understands ) Yes, to face your last remaining fear of heights.
MCCABE: David, don't listen to him. You were right. This is the Seven Dwarves. It's a set up! You can't trust him. David looks at McCabe with compassion.
VENTURA: Don't feel bad, David. This winning man is your creation. It's in his nature to fight for his existence. But he's not real.
MCCABE: I'm real. I have two daughters. You know that.
VENTURA: What are their names?
MCCABE: I - I CLOSE ON DAVID who feels for McCabe as the apparition crumbles.
MCCABE: Mortality as home entertainment. This cannot be the future. Can David regards McCabe. Once dynamic, McCabe now seems unsure of his own existence. Slowly, always looking at David, he settles into the truth of his very being. With great nobility, McCabe shoves his hands into his pockets and faces his own destiny. or lack thereof.
MCCABE: ( quietly ) It's been a brilliant journey of self-awakening, and you've simply got to ask yourself what is happiness to you?
VENTURA: It's been a brilliant journey of self-awakening, and you've simply got to ask yourself what is happiness to you?
DAVID: I want to live a real life. I don't want to dream any longer.
VENTURA: Any last wishes?
DAVID: Let them out there read my mind.
VENTURA: I wish you well, David. Music rises as he turns to see Sofia. He moves to her. She touches his cheek. His face is restored. They Look at us. I'm frozen, and you're dead. And I love you.
DAVID: Look at us. I'm frozen, and you're dead. And I love you.
SOFIA: It's a problem.
DAVID: I lost you when I got in that car. I'm sorry. She looks at him, beguiling and understanding.
DAVID: But remember what you told me once? Every passing minute is another chance to turn it all She kisses him.
SOFIA: I'll find you again. She regards her lost love, taking him in. David treasures his last moments with her.
DAVID: I'll see you in another life when we are both cats. David backs up and begins to run. He arrives at the edge, looking down at the distance to the ground, stopping himself at the precipice. He looks back to Sofia one last time, and then leaps out into the celestial future. For a fraction of a moment, he is suspended in mid-air. And he hurtles to the ground. And the ground hurtles to meet him.
THE END: Writers : Cameron Crowe
