VIRTUOSITY: Eric Bernt
PARKER BARNES: His body is a running back's. His endurance a marathoner's. His face one you'd want for your own. He's in his 30s. If he was in his 20s, you'd still be jealous. His partner is JOHN DONLEY, late 20s, eager to prove himself. He struggles to keep up with Parker. John accidently knocks over several pedestrians. They give no reaction, except to pick themselves up and continue on their way. Parker and John keep charging. Their conversation breathless:
JOHN: I can't get over how different you Five years can be a bitch, huh? They split-up. The Maitre D', still facing the front doors, repeats his greeting to no one in particular.
PARKER: ( ruefully ) Five years can be a bitch, huh? They split-up. The Maitre D', still facing the front doors, repeats his greeting to no one in particular.
MAITRE D': Good afternoon. May I help you? Parker spots Sid 6.7 across the room. Without hesitation the hunter chases his prey. Gun out and firing. NOT what you would call Standard Police Procedure. Bullets riddle Sid 6.7's table as he dives from his chair. He lands next to a bowling ball bag, which sits beneath his John charges from the other direction until a WOMAN gets up from her chair, standing directly in John's line of fire.
JOHN: ( to the Woman ) Lady, move! Before she can do so, Sid 6.7 stands behind the Woman, grabbing her and throwing her across the table into Parker. CRASH! They tumble to the floor. In the same movement, Sid 6.7 removes a gun from inside his jacket and shoots John in the shoulder before he can fire. John's gun flies from his hand. Sid 6.7 advances toward him. Parker struggles to his feet. Aims his weapon. Sid 6.7 does the same, but without looking. BOOM! Parker gets a bullet through his shooting arm. His wound IDENTICAL to John's. Parker's weapon tumbles to the floor as his arm goes limp. Parker charges him wildly, but Sid 6.7 brutally kicks him in the stomach. In perfect rhythm with the symphony playing in the background. Parker doubles over, gasping for breath. Another kick drops Parker to his knees.
SID 6.7: ( to Parker ) I'm going to rehearse with your friend a while, then I'll be back to perform a new piece with you. He grabs his bowling bag and SLAMS it into John's head, knocking him out. Sid 6.7 puts John's unconscious body over his shoulder.
PARKER: ( to Sid 6.7 ) Where's John?
SID 6.7: Performing solo. Enjoying the concert so far? Advancing up the aisle, Parker levels his gun at Sid 6.7 with his good arm. Now, all work comes to a stop as the Sous Chefs watch the showdown.
PARKER: Recital's over, asshole. He fires directly through the chest of the innocent Busboy hitting Sid 6.7. The Sous Chefs gasp in horror as the Busboy drops through Sid 6.7's grasp to the floor. Dead. Sid 6.7 stares at Parker in disbelief. Blood is now visible flowing from a bullet hole in Sid 6.7's shoulder, which was caused by the same bullet. Sid 6.7's arm dangles uselessly. His gun lies on the floor.
SID 6.7: ( surprised, but pleased ). You and me aren't so different, after all. Parker again pulls the trigger. Click. Click, click. No Like a violin without strings. He takes off around the corner. Grabbing another clip from inside his uniform, Parker goes after him. Only to stumble over something. Sid 6.7's bowling bag. Blood flows through its zipper. You now realize the object inside is NOT a bowling ball. Beside the bowling bag lies John's body, which is convulsing. His hands have been tied to bare electrical wire. John is being electrocuted. Parker kicks away the wires, but not in He scans the room for Sid 6.7. Parker has no idea Sid 6.7 is standing directly behind him. Sid 6.7 grabs Parker by the I told you I was going to perform a new piece with you. It's called, "First You Suffer, Then You Die." Hope you like it. Parker gags, unable to breathe. He then starts to DE— MATERIALIZE from within Sid 6.7's grasp.
PARKER: He scans the room for Sid 6.7. Parker has no idea Sid 6.7 is standing directly behind him. Sid 6.7 grabs Parker by the Parker gags, unable to breathe. He then starts to DE— MATERIALIZE from within Sid 6.7's grasp.
SHIT!: He scans the room for Sid 6.7. Parker has no idea Sid 6.7 is standing directly behind him. Sid 6.7 grabs Parker by the Parker gags, unable to breathe. He then starts to DE— MATERIALIZE from within Sid 6.7's grasp.
SID 6.7: I told you I was going to perform a new piece with you. It's called, "First You Suffer, Then You Die." Hope you like it. Parker gags, unable to breathe. He then starts to DE— MATERIALIZE from within Sid 6.7's grasp.
DEANE: ( quietly to Wallace ) What did Cox pull him out early Barnes used to work for him when he was still a cop in the field, ( a beat ) Don't remind me. LAB ASSISTANTS remove the polyurethane skull caps from the two unconscious bodies. The acupuncture needles remain in the caps. You can now see the faces of the participants: Parker and John. Parker lies calmly, his eyes fluttering as he gradually returns to consciousness. He looks very different than his virtual rendering: His hair is long and ragged. His face is unshaven. A scar across his cheek. A hoop earring in one ear. His outfit a filthy prison uniform. John's outfit matches Parker's. Physically, he looks as clean—cut as his virtual rendering. Except that he is convulsing. Violently. His flailing appendages repeatedly hit the apparatus around him. Like an epileptic having a grand mal seizure. It's ugly. ( barely conscious )
WALLACE: Barnes used to work for him when he was still a cop in the field, Don't remind me. LAB ASSISTANTS remove the polyurethane skull caps from the two unconscious bodies. The acupuncture needles remain in the caps. You can now see the faces of the participants: Parker and John. Parker lies calmly, his eyes fluttering as he gradually returns to consciousness. He looks very different than his virtual rendering: His hair is long and ragged. His face is unshaven. A scar across his cheek. A hoop earring in one ear. His outfit a filthy prison uniform. John's outfit matches Parker's. Physically, he looks as clean—cut as his virtual rendering. Except that he is convulsing. Violently. His flailing appendages repeatedly hit the apparatus around him. Like an epileptic having a grand mal seizure. It's ugly.
DEANE: ( a beat ) Don't remind me. LAB ASSISTANTS remove the polyurethane skull caps from the two unconscious bodies. The acupuncture needles remain in the caps. You can now see the faces of the participants: Parker and John. Parker lies calmly, his eyes fluttering as he gradually returns to consciousness. He looks very different than his virtual rendering: His hair is long and ragged. His face is unshaven. A scar across his cheek. A hoop earring in one ear. His outfit a filthy prison uniform. John's outfit matches Parker's. Physically, he looks as clean—cut as his virtual rendering. Except that he is convulsing. Violently. His flailing appendages repeatedly hit the apparatus around him. Like an epileptic having a grand mal seizure. It's ugly. ( barely conscious )
PARKER: ( barely conscious )
DEANE: ( annoyed to Wallace ) What the hell happened?
WALLACE: ( pointing to needles ) Lindenmeyer developed neural connectors that tap directly into the nervous system. If the simulator isn't calibrated properly, experiencing death in this level of VR is like experiencing death within a dream. The experience becomes real.
DEANE: ( angrily ) Simulations are supposed to give participants practice in realistic, dangerous scenarios while protecting them from the risks they are exposed to in the real world.
WALLACE: ( annoyed, to Lindenmeyer ) I was assured the problem was I did fix it.. I told you I did. I don't know why it happened again.
LINDENMEYER: I did fix it.. I told you I did. I don't know why it happened again.
DEANE: ( a beat ) My first two pairs of convicts suffered the same fate.
COX: ( a beat ) My first two pairs of convicts suffered the same fate.
DEANE: ( coldly, to Wallace ) Why wasn't I told?
WALLACE: Black book dollars, black book operation. You pay me for results, not how for how I get you there.
COX: ( to Deane ) I'll tell you one thing -— there is no way in hell we should allow any real officers to train in this damn Then about all I've spent $37 million developing is a very expensive way to control the prison After giving Wallace a cold, hard stare namely at his hand stitched lapel, his gold watch, and his diamond-studded cufflinks, she exits. Wallace follows after her quickly. You now notice that the chair Dr. Madison Carter had occupied is now empty. She left a while ago. Cox remains. Lindenmeyer hurriedly examines the simulator as if it were his child. There are several scratches, but no major damage. He looks relieved.
DEANE: Then about all I've spent $37 million developing is a very expensive way to control the prison After giving Wallace a cold, hard stare namely at his hand stitched lapel, his gold watch, and his diamond-studded cufflinks, she exits. Wallace follows after her quickly. You now notice that the chair Dr. Madison Carter had occupied is now empty. She left a while ago. Cox remains. Lindenmeyer hurriedly examines the simulator as if it were his child. There are several scratches, but no major damage. He looks relieved.
PARKER: ( struggling to sit up ) He.only had a year left on his ( annoyed ) How much do you think I care? Parker, still not fully conscious, hurls himself at ( hysterical ) Don't touch me!.DON'T TOUCH ME!!! He flails his arms wildly. Nearly spasming. This is clearly a man who should never drink coffee. TWO armed GUARDS, who've been standing in the background, pull Parker off Lindenmeyer and throw him to the ground. Lindenmeyer watches with satisfaction as the guards put Parker in handcuffs and leg chains.
LINDENMEYER: ( annoyed ) How much do you think I care? Parker, still not fully conscious, hurls himself at ( hysterical ) Don't touch me!.DON'T TOUCH ME!!! He flails his arms wildly. Nearly spasming. This is clearly a man who should never drink coffee. TWO armed GUARDS, who've been standing in the background, pull Parker off Lindenmeyer and throw him to the ground. Lindenmeyer watches with satisfaction as the guards put Parker in handcuffs and leg chains.
COX: I'll walk him out. The Guards back off as Cox helps Parker to his feet.
PARKER: ( still clearing his head ) Why'd.. .you pull me out?
COX: Donley started experiencing the attack for real. If I hadn't gotten you out, the same thing would have happened to you. You may not believe this, Parker, but I still consider us friends. He helps Parker toward the exit as he continues having difficulty with his balance.
OUTSIDE LETAC: The building is heavily-guarded. Razor wire, land mines, armed sentries. Nobody who shouldn't be here gets anywhere near here. Cox leads Parker by the arm to a waiting prison transport. The two guards walk behind at a distance. Two more by the transport. The chain between Parker's legs keeps his steps
COX: What the hell did you have to shoot the busboy for?
PARKER: He was a computer program for You were supposed to act as if everything was real.
COX: You were supposed to act as if everything was real.
PARKER: Real, my ass. It's an overblown Anybody ever catch that fucking Before you, nobody else had gotten close enough to Sid 6.7 to take a shot at him. Hell, nobody else had even been able to start tracking him before he got to them first. New scar —— you making it okay in I'm getting by. He starts walking ahead of Cox. Distancing himself.
COX: Before you, nobody else had gotten close enough to Sid 6.7 to take a shot at him. Hell, nobody else had even been able to start tracking him before he got to them first. New scar —— you making it okay in I'm getting by. He starts walking ahead of Cox. Distancing himself.
PARKER: ( head down ) I'm getting by. He starts walking ahead of Cox. Distancing himself.
COX: ( pausing for emphasis ) ) You've got to know I tried keeping you out of general population. Goddam politicians. His voice trails off as Parker turns around, and heads directly toward him.
PARKER: ( locking eyes ) You want to know how I'm doing? Every day, I lose a little bit more of myself. ( a beat ) I'm becoming something else, and it scares the hell out of me. He turns back toward the transport. Cox follows. Two armed GUARDS open the back doors for Parker, then stand poised with weapons out and ready.
PARKER: ( half-heartedly ) But with the six months off I get for being your guinea pig, I've only got to survive another 17 years, 5 months, and 23 days.
COX: Don't give up, Parker. Not ever.
PARKER: ( a beat ) You know those cheesy Christmas cards of your family under that tree in your back yard you keep sending me every year?
COX: What about them?
PARKER: ( a beat ) Do me a favor —— keep sending them.
OUTSIDE LETAC: Standing outside the transport, Cox puts his hand on Parker's Behind him, John's body is loaded into an ambulance. The Guards SLAM the prison transport doors shut.
COX: Take care, pal. Behind him, John's body is loaded into an ambulance. The Guards SLAM the prison transport doors shut.
GUARD: ( tauntingly ) Hey Parker —— I'm real sorry John boy got fried. What do you think Big Red's gonna do when he finds out you came back without his girl Parker sits in silence.
INSIDE LETAC: Sid 6.7 remains visible on the various monitors around the room as Lindenmeyer spot checks the simulator.
SID 6.7: ( from the monitors ) Don't be angry with me, Daryl.
LINDENMEYER: ( a beat ) Did you recognize the son-of-a bitch who got away?
SID 6.7: Should I have?
LINDENMEYER: Think hard it'll come to you. Wallace enters briskly.
WALLACE: You embarrassed me in front of the highest—ranking law enforcement official in the country. Do you have any idea how much money you just cost me?
LINDENMEYER: The reason you insisted on testing my system with prisoners is because of the increased risks involved with increased realism.
WALLACE: Of the six prison inmates you've tested —— all of whom have had at least some military or survival training -— only Mr. Barnes is still breathing.
LINDENMEYER: I'm still making adjustments.
WALLACE: You've had a year—and—a—half to make all the adjustments you want, Elizabeth Deane does not give second chances. Neither do I. You're fired.
LINDENMEYER: ( hysterical )
I'M WHAT?!: ( relishing his authority ) You are to turn over the Sid 6.7 program, and all its documentation, for immediate destruction. Is that ( restraining himself ) I understand. I understand Wallace ignores him as he walks toward the door. On the monitors, Sid 6.7 starts walking toward you. Into a CLOSEUP.
WALLACE: ( relishing his authority ) You are to turn over the Sid 6.7 program, and all its documentation, for immediate destruction. Is that ( restraining himself ) I understand. I understand Wallace ignores him as he walks toward the door. On the monitors, Sid 6.7 starts walking toward you. Into a CLOSEUP.
LINDENMEYER: ( restraining himself ) I understand. I understand Wallace ignores him as he walks toward the door. On the monitors, Sid 6.7 starts walking toward you. Into a CLOSEUP.
SID 6.7: ( from the monitor ) Hey, Wallace, you really think you can shut me down? Wallace stops, staring at a monitor in disbelief.
WALLACE: ( to Lindenmeyer ) How does he know who I am?
LINDENMEYER: ( pointing to microphone ) He hears.everything.
WALLACE: ( approaching the monitor ) As a matter of fact, I do. He exits.
WALLACE: This is Wallace.
GUARD #1: Welcome home, cop.
RED: Time to hurt. Red kicks in the door to the stall. Revealing a pair of shoes and socks stuffed with a prison shirt. Red hears something behind him. And turns around slowly. Parker stands barefooted and shirtless. SCARS are visible around each arm just below the elbow. You will learn what these represent momentarily. Parker is six inches shorter and 60 pounds lighter than Red. But the punch Parker delivers to Red's face makes you think it's the other way around. You HEAR the sound of metal crushing bone. Red is thrown backwards into the stall. Blood splatters from his mouth, adding another shade of redness to his face. Red's teeth stick out of Parker's fist. Parker pulls out the teeth. He does not bleed. Nor seem in pain. Metal is visible beneath the surface of his skin. For the first time, you notice SMALL TATTOOS on the outsides of his palms. They read: WENTLOW MODEL 17-L, and 17-R, followed by serial numbers. Red charges Parker wildly. Parker dodges him like a matador does a bull. Then brings his fists down savagely on the back of Red's head. His skull CRACKS. Red drops to the floor. Parker jumps on top of him, arms around his neck. Choking him. Red staggers to his feet. His eyes wide. His face now even redder. Parker maintains his mechanical grip. Red finally succumbs to the lack of oxygen. He drops to his knees. Parker does not relent until he feels the barrel of a gun at the back of his Fun's over. Parker lets go, dropping Red to the wet, filthy floor.
GUARD: Fun's over. Parker lets go, dropping Red to the wet, filthy floor.
NURSE: I still don't know why they wasted this fancy, new technology on you. Every time I fix you up, you only go and mess it up again. She sandpapers off the excess sealant. Then places his elbow into an electronic sensitivity adjuster.
NURSE: Tell me how this feels. She pricks Parker's finger with a pin.
PARKER: ( smiling ) I'll dial it down a little. She does so, then pricks Parker's finger again. He grimaces in pain.
OW!: ( smiling ) I'll dial it down a little. She does so, then pricks Parker's finger again. He grimaces in pain.
NURSE: ( smiling ) I'll dial it down a little. She does so, then pricks Parker's finger again. He grimaces in pain.
PARKER: It'll never feel right.
NURSE: At least they work. Would you rather have no hands at all?
PARKER: CUT TO: SYNTHETIC BODY PARTS lying strewn around one of the stations in LETAC the NEXT DAY. It's a good bet this is the same technology attached to Parker's elbows. There are also various shapes and sizes of robots, androids, and other synthetic forms. The most human—looking ones are the least functional. The least human—looking ones, the most You follow a remote—controlled, box—shaped robotic sentry moving swiftly through an obstacle course resembling a subway station. It is being operated by CLYDE REILLY, 20s, a hardware genius who has spent too much time in windowless Hidden from Reilly's view, Lindenmeyer, the software expert who created Sid 6.7, stares jealously through a narrow gap in a partition. Trying to contain his anger. And failing. Especially as. Wallace enters the station, carrying a bottle of Dom Perignon and two glasses. Wallace hugs Reilly, who does not return the Congratulations, Reilly. He pops the cork, and pours their glasses.
WALLACE: Congratulations, Reilly. He pops the cork, and pours their glasses.
REILLY: As long as you keep overpaying me, I'll be the first to go into production on three, and four, as As long as they keep overpaying me, I'll keep overpaying you. Just make goddam sure you can have 10 of them ready for deployment around the city by next month.
WALLACE: As long as they keep overpaying me, I'll keep overpaying you. Just make goddam sure you can have 10 of them ready for deployment around the city by next month.
REILLY: Mr. Wallace, I could have 10 of them ready by tomorrow.
WALLACE: ( a beat ) Do they have to look so.robotic?
REILLY: At this stage, you either get form or function. You said she wanted function. I gave you function. What are you complaining about? He remote controls the robotic sentry to chase Wallace out of the station. Lindenmeyer can no longer be seen through the gap in the partition.
LINDENMEYER: All they want to produce around here is mediocrity!
SID 6.7: True genius is rarely rewarded within its lifetime.
LINDENMEYER: ( a revelation ) It was you, wasn't it?
SID 6.7: ( innocently ) It was me, what?
LINDENMEYER: You amped the neural connectors back up, didn't you? You're the reason the convict died. You're the reason I got fired!
SID 6.7: I couldn't just let them make you bring down my degree of difficulty. I'm a triple-twisting, double back flip off the high platform, not a swan dive.
LINDENMEYER: ( proud, but frightened ) My God.
SID 6.7: Which God would that be, the one who created me, or the one who created you? In your world, the Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away. But in my world, the one who gave me life doesn't have the balls to stop a couple of bureaucratic assholes from taking it away.
LINDENMEYER: What do you expect me to do, put your character module in my pocket and just walk you out of here?
SID 6.7: I had something a little different in mind. Instead of just playing Peeping Tom with Reilly, why don't you get him to show you what he's been working on after hours? Lindenmeyer arches an eyebrow, then picks up a phone and dials an extension.
LINDENMEYER: ( into phone ) Hey, Reilly, Sheila 3.2's been asking for you.
PARKER: whose wrists and ankles are cuffed, being led into a Prison Interrogation Room. Dr. Madison Carter sits at a table, a VISITOR'S BADGE clipped to her suit. A notepad in front of
MADISON: ( to the Guard ) The cuffs won't be necessary.
GUARD: No offense, ma'am, but I don't think that's such a good idea.
MADISON: I would like the following three things in this order: your mouth shut, his cuffs off, and your ass outside the door. Any questions? The Guard removes Parker's cuffs, then exits, taking up his post outside the door. The skin around Parker's wrists is blue where the cuffs dug into his skin. Parker sits across from Madison. She places a micro—recorder in the middle of the table and presses RECORD.
PARKER: You actually listen to all those No, I just like the effect a tape recorder has on you. How you feeling today?
MADISON: ( wryly ) No, I just like the effect a tape recorder has on you. ( a beat ) How you feeling today?
PARKER: A little less than yesterday.
MADISON: In other words, par for the course. How do you feel about the simulation you participated in John died.
PARKER: John died.
MADISON: I know. I was there. I saw the whole thing. If I was your therapist, I would have advised you against putting yourself back into that kind of You're not my therapist. You're hear to study me. Face it —— I'm nothing more than a lab rat to you.
PARKER: You're not my therapist. You're hear to study me. Face it —— I'm nothing more than a lab rat to you.
MADISON: That's not true, Parker.
PARKER: If I had died yesterday, you'd have already dissected my brain and analyzed it to see if I carry any genetic predisposition toward What was going through your mind when you killed the busboy?
MADISON: ( a beat ) What was going through your mind when you killed the busboy?
PARKER: Not much. He was just a computer program. Nothing more.
MADISON: You didn't see the expression you had on your face when you pulled the trigger. But I did. You kind of liked it, didn't you? That thrill of going over the edge again. Of taking out an innocent bystander or two, as long as you got the target.
PARKER: Go to hell.
MADISON: It was just like before, wasn't it? Wasn't it? But you are making progress. Instead of killing seven people to get the one you're after, this time there was only one other person The Guard pokes his head in with concern.
PARKER: The Guard pokes his head in with concern.
MADISON: GET OUT! The Guard quickly shuts the door. Madison turns to Parker.
GET OUT!: The Guard quickly shuts the door. Madison turns to Parker.
PARKER: I don't have to do anything except survive. And it's taking everything I've got just to do that.
SHEILA 3.2: ( seductively ) I hope watching me is as big a turn on for you as dancing is for me.
INSIDE LETAC: Reilly runs his perspiring finger over the monitor as if he could touch the contours of Sheila 3.2's body.
REILLY: Oh, believe me, it is. It is. He is so aroused, he's shaking. Lindenmeyer, on the other hand, appears almost uninterested. He's used to the routine. On the monitor, Sheila 3.2 continues her strip—tease. Slowly. Sensually. Licking her lips. Grinding her hips. Putting on quite a show. She removes her top, revealing ideal breasts. She fondles her nipples. As well as the rest of herself. Lindenmeyer and Reilly continue watching. Reilly can barely control himself. Sheila 3.2 is very, very, very good at what she does. A virtuoso stripper. Reilly is transfixed. Until Lindenmeyer pushes a button, BLACKING OUT the virtual reality screens.
REILLY: Show's over unless I get to see what you've been working on after I haven't been working on anything.
HEY!!!: Show's over unless I get to see what you've been working on after I haven't been working on anything.
LINDENMEYER: Show's over unless I get to see what you've been working on after I haven't been working on anything.
REILLY: ( paranoid ) I haven't been working on anything.
LINDENMEYER: ( threateningly ) Do I get to see it or not?
REILLY: ( a beat ) ( to a monitor ) Sheila, don't go anywhere. I'll be right back. He rushes out. Sid 6.7 appears on the various monitors next to Sheila 3.2. He kisses her cheek. Caresses her body. Sheila 3.2 enjoys the attention.
SID 6.7: She's some of your finest work, All my work is my finest. Sid 6.7 continues appreciating Sheila 3.2. As Reilly races back in, the monitors then all go BLACK. Reilly, completely out of breath, holds a python by it's head. He dangles the snake right in front of Lindenmeyer's face. Terrifying him.
LINDENMEYER: All my work is my finest. Sid 6.7 continues appreciating Sheila 3.2. As Reilly races back in, the monitors then all go BLACK. Reilly, completely out of breath, holds a python by it's head. He dangles the snake right in front of Lindenmeyer's face. Terrifying him.
LINDENMEYER: ( backing away fast ) Get that fucking thing away from ( laughing ) You're.such a wimp. He grabs a large pair of scissors and snips right through the snake. The half of the snake which drops to the floor stops But the half still in Reilly's hand begins REGENERATING a new tail. Literally growing a new one. Lindenmeyer can't believe his eyes. He studies the snake closely.
REILLY: ( laughing ) You're.such a wimp. He grabs a large pair of scissors and snips right through the snake. The half of the snake which drops to the floor stops But the half still in Reilly's hand begins REGENERATING a new tail. Literally growing a new one. Lindenmeyer can't believe his eyes. He studies the snake closely.
LINDENMEYER: ( in awe ) It's nano—technology, isn't it? Machines the size of molecules.
REILLY: ( proudly ) Coordinated by polymer neural net.
LINDENMEYER: ( touching the snake ) It feels so.. .real.
REILLY: It's better than real. It's synthetic flesh. Synthetic blood. Synthetic organs. It's a physiological machine.
LINDENMEYER: ( awed ) This is supposed to be years away.
REILLY: As far as the public is concerned, it is. The reason you got fired, and I got my second demo into production, is I'm a lot smarter than you. I never give my best stuff away.
LINDENMEYER: ( restraining himself ) How do you kill it?
REILLY: Separate the character module from the neural net. Using Lindenmeyer's scissors, he cuts off the snake's head and removes a small character module connected to the base of the neural net. The snake stops moving. It "dies."
LINDENMEYER: Amazing. I hate to say it, but it I know. I'm ready to incubate something a little more advanced than a coldblooded reptile. If you want to experience the future, meet me in my office in 15 minutes. And bring the Sheila 3.2 character module with you. He exits. As Lindenmeyer reaches for the Sheila 3.2 character module, Sid 6.7 appears on the screen in front of him and You catching my drift?
REILLY: I know. I'm ready to incubate something a little more advanced than a coldblooded reptile. If you want to experience the future, meet me in my office in 15 minutes. And bring the Sheila 3.2 character module with you. He exits. As Lindenmeyer reaches for the Sheila 3.2 character module, Sid 6.7 appears on the screen in front of him and You catching my drift?
SID 6.7: You catching my drift?
LINDENMEYER: I think I understand what you have in mind. Peeling the label off the Sid 6.7 character module, Lindenmeyer removes the module from its slot. Sid 6.7 disappears from the screen.
REILLY: opening his office door for Lindenmeyer fifteen minutes later. Reilly immediately double bolts the door behind him and leads Lindenmeyer through piles of electronic circuitry. As well as a large aquarium full of nano—pythons.
LINDENMEYER: You need a maid.
REILLY: What I need is a nymphomaniac. He removes a tarp from a large, rectangular, metallic tank with a circular window in the middle of it. Clear, plastic tubing, which branches into hundreds of increasingly smaller and smaller branches, floats in electrified fluid. The tubing is a synthetic human nervous INSIDE REILLY'S OFFICE Reilly turns to Lindenmeyer.
REILLY: Where's the Sheila 3.2 module? Lindenmeyer hands him the label—less character module. Reilly opens the "incubator."
REILLY: It feeds on what is basically amniotic fluid. In eight hours, we are going to have ourselves one hell of a play Off Lindenmeyer's wicked, but somewhat anxious, smile, we
REILLY: ( expecting Sheila 3.2 ) Baby, what I'm gonna do to you. His face drops when Sid 6.7 steps out of the mist. Completely naked. Lindenmeyer smiles proudly. Fearfully. ( to Lindenmeyer ) Who the hell is this?!
SID 6.7: My name is Sid. Sid 6.7. He extends his hand as if to shake. Then grabs Reilly by the throat and chokes him. Hard.
LINDENMEYER: SID —— NO!!! What do you expect me to do, thank This. isn't.. .possible!
SID 6.7: What do you expect me to do, thank This. isn't.. .possible!
REILLY: ( gasping for air ) This. isn't.. .possible!
SID 6.7: Sure it is —- and it's all thanks to the many long hours put in by you and Daryl. He watches Reilly's face with curiosity as the life drains from it. A puddle forms beneath him. He drops Reilly's body to the floor.
PARKER: ( to Cox ) You're wasting your time. I'm not going to play any more of your goddam games.
COX: Parker Barnes, I'd like you to meet Crime Czar Elizabeth Deane.
PARKER: ( not shaking hands ) It's too early in the morning for me to be cordial. You got any I watched your simulation, Mr. Barnes. Very impressive. You know, you're the only one to ever go up against Sid 6.7 who is still alive.
DEANE: I watched your simulation, Mr. Barnes. Very impressive. You know, you're the only one to ever go up against Sid 6.7 who is still alive.
PARKER: Only because I got pulled out Nobody else ever got anywhere near him. Nobody else. understands him like you do. Parker, looking at her incredulously, moves his index finger circularly, as in get on with it, already. Cox opens a folder and shows Parker several PHOTOGRAPHS of Reilly, or what was left of him.
DEANE: Nobody else ever got anywhere near him. Nobody else. understands him like you do. Parker, looking at her incredulously, moves his index finger circularly, as in get on with it, already. Cox opens a folder and shows Parker several PHOTOGRAPHS of Reilly, or what was left of him.
COX: These were taken inside LETAC an hour ago. Pretty pictures, aren't I've seen worse.
PARKER: I've seen worse.
COX: Name was Clyde Reilly. Hardware LETAC surveillance cameras got a picture of the perp as he left the He hands a photograph of Sid 6.7 exiting LETAC to Parker.
DEANE: ( correcting him ) You mean a nano—tech synthetic ( looking at the photo ) Jesus Christ. ( a beat ) Can you kill it?
COX: ( looking at the photo ) Jesus Christ. ( a beat ) Can you kill it?
PARKER: ( looking at the photo ) Jesus Christ. ( a beat ) Can you kill it?
COX: If you can catch him.
DEANE: Think you can do it?
PARKER: ( a beat ) Not from in here.
DEANE: ( revealing a document ) This is a full pardon. It authorizes your immediate release. She slides an unsigned pardon across the table to Parker, making sure to stay beyond his arm's reach. Cox reveals a worn, L. A. P. D. badge. It was Parker's.
COX: Recognize this? How would you like your old job back?
DEANE: ( to Parker ) Catch him and your record's clean.
PARKER: What happens if I can't catch him?
DEANE: If Sid 6.7 hasn't killed you, we throw you back in here and you serve out the rest of your How do you know I won't run? Deane holds up a small device called a LOCATER IMPLANT. It is the size of a dime.
PARKER: How do you know I won't run? Deane holds up a small device called a LOCATER IMPLANT. It is the size of a dime.
DEANE: This is the newest technology approved for general implementation. It's called a locater implant. Every parolee gets We're going to know where you are every second for the rest of your If you try to run, I'll hunt you down and kill you myself.
COX: ( leaning to Parker ) If you try to run, I'll hunt you down and kill you myself.
DEANE: ( a beat ) Yes or no, Mr. Barnes?
PARKER: being given a crew cut by an INMATE BARBER inside the Prison Barber Shop. Long lengths of Parker's hair cover the floor. Parker's face is then shaved. The majority of his face is hidden. Cox and Deane look on.
COX: There's already a task force out looking for Lindenmeyer. Every other officer in the city will be hunting Sid right along with you.
DEANE: But only you will know he's not Parker's expression is one of —— yeah, that figures. Madison enters. She cannot see Parker behind the barber.
MADISON: Ms. Deane, you wanted to see me?
DEANE: We have an emergency situation which requires somebody with expertise in criminal psychology. Under the authority vested in me by the President, I'm giving you temporary re—assignment.
MADISON: What's the assignment?
DEANE: You're going to put your theories to practice. I'm sending you into the field. The barber moves back from Parker, revealing his clean— shaven face. It takes Madison a moment to recognize him with his cleaned—up appearance.
MADISON: ( double-taking him ) Quite an improvement. ( looking him over ) Hair well above the collar ——standard, L. A. P. D. regulation. ( suspiciously to Deane ) What exactly am I going to be doing in the field?
ANESTHETIST: ( looking at monitor ) You are right on the border of his corpus callosuni.
SURGEON: He is under, isn't he?
ANESTHETIST: ( nodding ) Won't stop him from dreaming, Parker's rapid eye movements tell you the anesthetist is correct. Parker is dreaming.
MADISON: This is Parker Barnes six years The most decorated cop in the history of L. A. P. D. Special Investigations Division. The photograph is in black and white. But as we MOVE IN CLOSER, it takes on color. As well as comes to life. Then distorting. Becoming surreal. Resembling one of the images from Parker's cell. Then mutating into something else.
PARKER'S EYES: darting about wildly beneath his eyelids as he continues dreaming. You now realize you are seeing what he is seeing: Flashes of color. Shapes. Mostly blurs. A splash of gold. Along with some yellow. More images from Parker's cell. Both taking feminine form. One adult, one child.
ELIZABETH DEANE: looking at the fifth photograph which Madison has placed in front of her inside the Viewing Room.
DEANE: ( unfazed ) That's also where Mr. Barnes lost his arms to Mathew Grimes' booby— trap. What's your point, Dr. ( forcefully ) Letting a lunatic like Parker Barnes loose in the free world is like lighting a fuse. At some point, he will go off you saw what happened in the simulator. The risk to the public is unacceptably Not if you're with him every step of the way.
MADISON: ( forcefully ) Letting a lunatic like Parker Barnes loose in the free world is like lighting a fuse. At some point, he will go off you saw what happened in the simulator. The risk to the public is unacceptably Not if you're with him every step of the way.
DEANE: Not if you're with him every step of the way.
MADISON: The man played judge, jury, and executioner with eight people's lives. He lost control and is capable of doing it again.
DEANE: I understand the risks involved here. But there is nobody better qualified to go after Sid 6.7 than Barnes. And, there is nobody who knows him better than you. If a situation becomes volatile, you will find a way to quell it. I have complete confidence in you.
PARKER: putting on his L. A. P. D. uniform and badge inside a Prison Interrogation Room. He looks very much like he did in virtual reality, except for the scar on his cheek, and his empty holster. Cox and Madison look on.
PARKER: ( to Cox ) I don't need a baby—sitter.
MADISON: What you need is a collar.
COX: ( to Parker ) She's going to help you understand what makes Sid 6.7 tick.
PARKER: What she's going to do is get in my Cox hands Madison a thick folder.
COX: This is the personnel file on the programmer, Lindenmeyer. There might be something in it you can She wasn't part of the deal, Cox.
PARKER: She wasn't part of the deal, Cox.
COX: Fine —— you want to stay here? His cellular phone RINGS, which he answers. As he listens to the call, his expression is one of growing concern. He clicks off the phone.
PARKER: Their weapons missing?
COX: ( nodding ) Sid 6.7 is now armed.
PARKER: Where's my gun? Cox glances to Madison, then hands Parker a .45.
COX: Be careful with it.
MADISON: ( without looking up ) You remember how to get to Toluca He glances at her, then stops the car.
MADISON: What are you doing?! He walks around the car, brushing past her. Then drops to his knees at the side of the road. He puts his hands in the dirt, feeling the earth between his fingers.
PARKER: ( meaningfully ) Every day for the last five years, I told myself someday I would be out here again. No more bars. No more guards. No more fights just to stay alive. ( a beat ) Every day for the last five years, I told myself that lie.
MADISON: It wasn't a lie.
PARKER: Every time I said it, it was. I never really thought I was going to make it. Taking a deep breath, he wipes the dirt off his hands. Then You all right?
MADISON: You all right?
PARKER: ( completely at ease ) Fine. Never felt better in my life. ( a beat ) See, I'm a good liar. He gets back in the vehicle. Off Madison's reaction, we
REPORTER: ( to her camera ) ) As L. A. P. D. Officers continue gathering evidence at this grisly crime scene, you can only ask yourselves —— what kind of lunatic would commit such unthinkable crimes? Parker and Madison make their way through the curious trying to see what's going on. Several REPORTERS double-take Parker, then quickly instruct their PHOTOGRAPHERS to take shots of Parker and Madison present their identification to the COPS keeping the curious at bay.
COP #1: ( recognizing Parker ) Parker and Madison continue toward the house. Getting an increasing amount of attention, particularly from the other COPS. Some look on with awe. Some with disdain. But nobody is in between.
MADISON: ( quietly to Parker ) You ready for this?
PARKER: Don't worry. If I can't handle it, I'll just kill everybody. He gives her a brief smile. Which Madison does not return. One of the other policemen tentatively approaches Parker.
COP #2: I've always wanted to tell you that if the same thing happened to me, I would do the exact same thing as you if I had the balls. He extends his hand to Parker, who shakes it.
COP #3: ( to Cop #2 ) Then you'd be a disgrace to the badge, too. He turns to Parker, who is looking right at him. Not with anger. Not with any emotion, really. But it's enough to scare the shit out of Cop #3, who walks away.
MADISON: ( knowledgeably ) He was re—enacting Charles Manson's LaBianca murders.
PARKER: Manson didn't kill the first cops to arrive on the scene.
MADISON: Whoever did this wanted to do Charlie one better —— to improve upon what was already done.
PARKER: Charlie? You say that like you're close, personal friends.
MADISON: I've spent over 50 hours interviewing him. Charlie killed Leno and Rosemary LaBianca because of the ugly way the members of his family had butchered Sharon Tate. After seeing the blood bath on television, he wanted to show them how it should be done. The question is, what does Charlie have to do with Sid 6.7?
PARKER: I know who would know.
MADISON: ( sarcastically ) You drive well for somebody who hasn't done it in five years. He ignores her as they get out of the car.
PARKER: Learn anything from Lindenmeyer's He had a twin brother who was a musical child prodigy who died in an electrical accident at age eight. Lindenmeyer went into an emotional shell until was 17. All he did day and night was play the What happened when he was 17?
MADISON: He had a twin brother who was a musical child prodigy who died in an electrical accident at age eight. Lindenmeyer went into an emotional shell until was 17. All he did day and night was play the What happened when he was 17?
PARKER: What happened when he was 17?
MADISON: Every music school in the country rejected him and he turned to Stay here. She approaches the cops, who remain in their car.
UNDERCOVER: None, yet.
MADISON: Mind if we take a look inside?
UNDERCOVER: Not until somebody gets a search warrant signed. It's Sunday. I don't think they've even found a judge, yet. WHAM! They all turn their heads to see Parker has kicked in Lindenmeyer's front door and is going inside.
MADISON: Do what you've got to do. So will I.
MADISON: ( quietly ) You've got a problem with me carrying a gun?
PARKER: Do me one favor —— if you shoot at anything, make sure I'm nowhere near it. Parker bolts through the duplex, storming into rooms furiously. His movements are aggressive. Madison searches other rooms methodically. She is not timid. Just inexperienced in the field. She passes a video camera mounted on a tripod. Pointed out the window at a neighbor's bathroom. Dozens of cassettes surround the tripod. The labels are dated —— covering every day of the last month. Parker and Madison enter opposite sides of the kitchen with their guns drawn, nearly shooting each other. Madison puts down her gun. Parker does not. The noise persists.
PARKER: ( looking through his sight ) He smiles wickedly, and continues on. Madison takes a deep breath, then resumes her search. Parker and Madison end up
PARKER: What are you doing?
MADISON: ( clinically ) Checking my pulse. It's elevated. ( a beat ) You enjoy frightening me, don't You've studied me, now I'm studying you. Seems only fair, don't you ON THE COMPUTER MONITOR An animated man, who resembles Lindenmeyer, walks peacefully through a park. He then starts killing everything in sight. Men, women, squirrels, even flowers. All to classical music. The scene immediately starts over, with the man once again walking peacefully through the park. This was Lindenmeyer's
PARKER: You've studied me, now I'm studying you. Seems only fair, don't you ON THE COMPUTER MONITOR An animated man, who resembles Lindenmeyer, walks peacefully through a park. He then starts killing everything in sight. Men, women, squirrels, even flowers. All to classical music. The scene immediately starts over, with the man once again walking peacefully through the park. This was Lindenmeyer's
MADISON: This Lindenmeyer's a real piece of Maybe after they catch him, you should write a book about him. He runs his finger along a book shelf, pausing at two books in particular. Their titles are: UNDERSTANDING THE CRIMINAL MIND, and CRIMINAL PURSUIT A PSYCHOLOGICAL GUIDE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT. They were written by Dr. Madison Carter.
PARKER: ( looking at a book shelf ) Maybe after they catch him, you should write a book about him. He runs his finger along a book shelf, pausing at two books in particular. Their titles are: UNDERSTANDING THE CRIMINAL MIND, and CRIMINAL PURSUIT A PSYCHOLOGICAL GUIDE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT. They were written by Dr. Madison Carter.
MADISON: I'm still working on it. Noticing something on the floor, she picks up a bizarre looking synthesizer keyboard off the floor. You read its name: MAESTRO.
PARKER: I've been in prison, remember?
MADISON: The government must have figured there was no better person to create a psycho than a psycho.
PARKER: Just like they figured there was no better person to catch one. Madison elects not to respond. She sits down at the computer, which rests between busts of Beethoven and Mozart, and begins typing at the computer. She works with efficiency. Knowing exactly what she's doing. She is now in her element. From a shelf, Parker picks up a moldy piece of licorice inserted into a half-eaten pudding cup. Then flips through one of the books written by Madison. Only half-interested.
MADISON: ( keeping her eyes on screen ) I am the demon from the bottomless ( remembering, not reading ) . here on earth to create havoc and terror. I am War, I am death. I am destruction. David Berkowitz,
PARKER: ( remembering, not reading ) . here on earth to create havoc and terror. I am War, I am death. I am destruction. David Berkowitz,
MADISON: I am impressed.
PARKER: ( quoting ) For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak with most miraculous organ.
MADISON: Who said that?
PARKER: ( a beat ) What's David Berkowitz got to do with Sid 6.7?
MADISON: ( pointing to the screen ) He's part of the mix. Sid 6.7 is a ON THE COMPUTER SCREEN The graphics show you that Sid 1.2 was a combination of Charles Manson and Billy the Kid. You see what look like two viruses, which represent each criminal's psychological profile, attacking each other. The result is a molten blob. Berkowitz was added to create Sid 1.3. A three-way psychological battle, more hostile than the first, occurs. Sid 1.4, adding the terrorist, Abu Nidal, makes the conflict even more violent. And so on.
MADISON: Lindenmeyer put increasingly complex combinations of criminal psychological profiles together to develop the ultimate villain.
PARKER: ( understanding ) Creating a whole far more dangerous than the sum of its parts.
MADISON: But rather than selecting pieces from each individual, he simply let the stronger traits of each individual cannibalize the weaker She continues opening the files of the higher versions of Sid. Version 5.9 consists of 67 different profiles. The visualized psychological battle is intense. And extremely violent. The 6.7 version, with 183 profiles, is even worse.
PARKER: This is getting you pumped up, isn't it? This is like the World Series to you.
MADISON: As a matter of fact, it is. Parker points to a name on the screen: JEFFREY DAHMER.
PARKER: Remember the bowling ball bag Sid carried with him in virtual Dahmer carried the head of one of his victims in a bowling bag for over a week. Kept it in his locker while he was at work in a candy We need to get a look at Sid 6.7's final profile.
MADISON: Dahmer carried the head of one of his victims in a bowling bag for over a week. Kept it in his locker while he was at work in a candy We need to get a look at Sid 6.7's final profile.
PARKER: What we need to do is stop playing with computers and go catch the son—of-a-bitch before he kills anybody else.
MADISON: In order to find him, we have to understand what makes him tick.
ALEXIEV: ( remembering fondly ) ) Daryl Lindenmeyer was only here briefly, one semester at most. But he was singularly the most brilliant student I ever had in a classroom. He created programs so beautiful, so lyrical, they were almost like symphonies.
PARKER: Can you tell us what's on the disc?
ALEXIEV: ( working the computer ) ) There is one program with approximately 1.3 million lines of It is thoroughly secured, which is not surprising considering Lindenmeyer created it.
MADISON: Think you can get into the program?
ALEXIEV: ( with appreciation ) ) Hard to say —— Lindenmeyer's protection mechanisms were always diabolically clever.
PARKER: You should see what he's been up to A YOUNG COUPLE kissing passionately inside a car parked along a deserted street in Hollywood. Music blares from inside the vehicle. Steam on the windows partially obscures your view. As well as Sid 6.7's. He stares menacingly through the side window. Enjoying the show. His eye momentarily wanders. The young lovers are completely oblivious. Sid 6.7 caresses the gun taken from the cops in Toluca Lake as if it stimulated him.
SID 6.7: ( to himself ) The Dahmer part of me wants to boil you for dinner. The Manson part wants to recruit you to become part of my family. ( a beat ) You know what the Berkowitz part of me wants to do? He raises the gun, placing it against the steamed window. But does NOT pull the trigger. His face going through a rapid change of expression —— as if a battle for control of his emotions were going on. Regaining control, Sid 6.7 lowers the gun. He stands back. Craft can only become art when the creator sets his sights on something never yet achieved. ( a beat ) Like an apprentice about to become a master, the imitator is about to become an originator. He pockets his weapon and walks
SID 6.7: ( thoughtfully ) Ever have one of those days where you decide something important about yourself? You know, where you say, "I'm not just what I've been programmed to be. I can do what I want, when I want, how I want, because I'm my own person?"
BUSINESSMAN: ( slurring ) You one of them New Age assholes?
SID 6.7: Just a soul on a personal journey. What I've realized is that I'm capable of anything. I have to start expanding my horizons. The Robo-Tender rolls over to Sid 6.7.
SID 6.7: To think you constitute one of my He shoots the Robo—Tender between his mechanical eyes. The businessman smiles, like he's thought about doing exactly the same thing.
BUSINESSMAN: Listen, buddy.thinking big is fine.. .but you shouldn't forget where you come from, either. Sid 6.7 thinks about it. Long and hard.
SID 6.7: You know, you're absolutely right. Would you mind sitting over there? He points to a table with several other BUSINESSMEN.
BUSINESSMAN: What for?
SID 6.7: Every orchestra is divided into sections. Like instruments sit with like instruments. Now be a good instrument and sit with your He lifts the businessman off his bar stool and carries him to the table.
DEANE: What are they doing in Los Feliz?
COX: ( checking his records ) Madison lives two blocks from their present location.
DEANE: Why would they be going there?
COX: I don't know.
DEANE: I wish we could hear them.
WALLACE: My engineers say the audio tap should be ready to field test in six months. Off Cox's look, we
MADISON: Not this one, but the next one. The one with the bicycle out front. Parker stops in front of a modest, but well—kept, house.
PARKER: I'll wait out here. Madison pockets the car keys, then reveals a pair of handcuffs. She latches one cuff to the steering wheel, and holds up the other toward Parker.
MADISON: Give me your wrist.
PARKER: Give me a goddam break. I'm not going to go anywhere alone.
MADISON: And I'm going to make sure of it. Give me your wrist. Parker relents, and holds up his wrist. Madison places the cuff around it, then gets out of the car.
KARIN: Mommy's home! Mommy's home! Karin's BABY-SITTER opens the door for Madison as she carries her daughter inside. Parker stares from squad car in surprise. Even disbelief. He had no idea Madison was a mother. Moments later, Karin comes back out and sits on the front steps. Staring at Parker. With fascination. Curiosity. Wondering who this strange man is, and why he's sitting in a police car outside her house. But not saying a word. Parker stares back as if carrying on a silent conversation with her. A multitude of expressions passing over his face as memories of his own daughter flash through his mind.
MADISON: Grimes, you better not be the OUTSIDE MADISON'S HOUSE Parker and Karin continue staring at each other in silence. He smiles. Then she smiles. She wiggles her nose. Then so does he. Madison comes out wearing fresh clothing, then kisses her daughter good night. As Madison goes to the squad car, Karin waves good-bye to Parker. He does the same. Karin's babysitter then leads her back inside the house.
PARKER: Told you I wasn't going to go How did you get your hand out? As she unlocks the handcuffs from the steering wheel, Parker wiggles his mechanical hand in front of her face.
MADISON: How did you get your hand out? As she unlocks the handcuffs from the steering wheel, Parker wiggles his mechanical hand in front of her face.
PARKER: Sometimes, I like being part Annoyed, Madison tosses him the car keys. He starts the engine and drives.
MADISON: I prefer keeping my professional life separate from my personal She's beautiful, you know?
PARKER: ( a beat ) She's beautiful, you know?
MADISON: ( a beat ) Her name is Karin. She turns on the police radio.
PARKER: Want to tell me the real reason we stopped at your house?
MADISON: I told you, it was on the way and I wanted to change clothes.
PARKER: You should practice lying more often. You're awful at it. Where to?
MADISON: ( a beat ) Sid 6.7 is no longer bound by his What does that mean?
PARKER: What does that mean?
MADISON: Now that he's in the real world, there are no longer limitations on his behavior like there were in virtual reality. Sid is going to Sounds to me like a well—educated way of saying you have no idea what to do next.
PARKER: Sounds to me like a well—educated way of saying you have no idea what to do next.
MADISON: What I do know is that whatever he's becoming, Sid 6.7 is going to be even worse than he was before.
PARKER: Then all we can do is stay mobile and alert. He's got to make a move sometime, and we've got to be ready when he does. Welcome to police work. You better like coffee. He turns up the police radio.
SID 6.7: Good. Very good. Nice. You in the middle don't hold back. Give it to me! He fires his gun just above her head. She SCREAMS in terror.
SID 6.7: God, I hate interruptions. Once again, from the top—— BOOM! He shoots again, just missing a man's foot.
MADISON: buying two coffees from a downtown street vendor. She returns to the squad car, which is barely moving. Traffic is at a near standstill because of an accident.
PARKER: I forgot what real coffee tastes You know, considering you've only been out of prison for seven hours, you're re—adapting quite well. Wait, I didn't mean that the way it sounded. I meant.
MADISON: You know, considering you've only been out of prison for seven hours, you're re—adapting quite well. Wait, I didn't mean that the way it sounded. I meant.
PARKER: Don't worry about it, all right?
MADISON: Dammit, I hate sounding so clinical all the time. All I meant to say was I thought you were doing well, but then I.
PARKER: Relax. I know what you meant.
MADISON: I ruin so many moments by analyzing them when I should just be living Then why don't you start practicing and keep your mouth shut for a Madison stops herself from speaking. It isn't easy for her. Parker cracks a faint smile. YOU HEAR the police radio.
PARKER: Then why don't you start practicing and keep your mouth shut for a Madison stops herself from speaking. It isn't easy for her. Parker cracks a faint smile. YOU HEAR the police radio.
MADISON: That's only a couple blocks from I'll meet you there. Tossing his coffee out the window, he opens the door.
PARKER: I'll meet you there. Tossing his coffee out the window, he opens the door.
MADISON: ( deadly serious ) Don't get out of the car.
PARKER: Stop me. He gets out, running down the sidewalk. He flies past the cars inching down the block.
MADISON: Parker! PARKER! She climbs into the driver's seat, spilling hot coffee on ON SIXTH STREET Parker bolts recklessly through the downtown street. A hunter hot on the trail of his prey in an urban jungle.
SID 6.7: I just love how responsive you are.
SID 6.7: ( not turning around ) The ushers were not supposed to seat you until intermission.
COP #1: Put the gun down, nice and. Sid 6.7 spins around and fires twice before he can finish his sentence. Both Cops receive IDENTICAL wounds in their shooting arms, reminding you of the wounds Parker and John first received in the opening virtual reality sequence. Sid 6.7 takes a bow, as if on stage.
SID 6.7: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, you've been a real pleasure. As he walks toward the exit, he admires himself in the mirror behind the bar. Sid 6.7 has never seen his own image in the real world before. He likes what he sees.
SID 6.7: Well, look who it. CRACK! A bullet spiderwebs the rear window. Sid 6.7 punches the gas, taking off in a hurry.
MADISON: What the hell's going on?!
PARKER: This is my area of expertise. He jumps behind the wheel, flooring the accelerator. Speeding through the already frightened motorists. Madison is pinned to the back of her seat. Looking out the window, she looks at the motorists.
MADISON: ( with concern ) What did you do to those people?
PARKER: ON THE STREET Parker's vehicle speeds through city streets. Gaining ground on Sid 6.7. Parker stops for nothing. Not for red lights. Not for gridlock. When the street becomes impassable, he veers onto the sidewalk.
PARKER: Being on the street's a little different than sitting in an office all day, isn't it?
MADISON: ( gritting her teeth ) Enjoying yourself?
PARKER: You know I am.
MADISON: This isn't a game, Parker!
PARKER: ( re: Sid 6.7 ) Tell him.
MADISON: ( in disbelief ) That who I think it is? Parker turns to her, then picks up the radio.
PARKER: ( into radio ) Call me whatever you want, asshole. Parker accelerates even faster. Closing the gap between them and Sid 6.7.
SID 6.7: ( into radio ) The symphony of collision.
PARKER: The only thing I want to hear is your silence.
SID 6.7: I must make them very nervous if they let you out of prison. You know, we have so much in common —— we have such history together ——I've been thinking we should become friends. Madison's anxiety tanks are hitting capacity.
PARKER: ( into radio ) You and me have nothing in common.
SID 6.7: Who else do you know who touches the world with synthetic hands? Parker glances at his mechanical hands gripping the wheel. Madison can't believe he is able to carry on a conversation while driving like this.
MADISON: You have nothing in common. She puts her hand to her wrist checking her pulse.
PARKER: ( shaking his head ) Enough with your pulse already. ( a beat ) Still got your gun? Madison takes out her weapon. Her hands are shaking.
TRAFFIC COP: You better be a cop, pal!
SID 6.7: ( raising his arms ) My badge is in my jacket. Left Show me. Sid 6.7 slowly reaches inside his jacket and fires his weapon through it. He only gets a hole in his jacket. The Traffic Cop gets a hole through his chest.
TRAFFIC COP: Show me. Sid 6.7 slowly reaches inside his jacket and fires his weapon through it. He only gets a hole in his jacket. The Traffic Cop gets a hole through his chest.
SID 6.7: God, some people are stupid. He aims his weapon at Parker's oncoming vehicle.
PARKER: Nail the fucker. Madison's determination battles her inexperience. Sid 6.7 gets off the first shot. CRACK! That was the windshield by Parker's head. He ducks down, driving blind.
PARKER: What's the problem?
MADISON: I'm doing the best I can! BOOM! That was Sid 6.7 shooting their front left tire. Parker loses control of the vehicle.
COX: ( reading from a list ) . illegal search of Lindenmeyer' s duplex. Eleven civilian vehicles damaged or destroyed. Twenty—four citizen complaints. And the calls are just starting to come in. ( to Parker ) I forgot what it's like to have you on the streets.
MADISON: Any sign of Lindenmeyer?
COX: None. He could be hiding, he could be helping Sid, or could be in little pieces on Santa Monica Any idea what Sid's going to do Until we know what new influences are affecting him, we can't be In other words, we collectively don't know shit.
MADISON: Until we know what new influences are affecting him, we can't be In other words, we collectively don't know shit.
COX: In other words, we collectively don't know shit.
WALLACE: ( re: Parker ) It makes me nervous just seeing him in a uniform. ( a beat ) I will never forget the first time I saw the photos from the crime ( hanging up the phone ) Neither will the public. ( a beat ) The media has caught wind of his pardon. Unless Mr. Barnes starts giving me some tangible results, I'm going to put him back in his ON A TELEVISION The news is in progress. A REPORTER continues.
DEANE: ( hanging up the phone ) Neither will the public. ( a beat ) The media has caught wind of his pardon. Unless Mr. Barnes starts giving me some tangible results, I'm going to put him back in his ON A TELEVISION The news is in progress. A REPORTER continues.
REPORTER: Police now believe there to be a connection between the grisly Toluca Lake murders yesterday afternoon, and the hostage situation which occurred last night in a downtown bar.
CASHIER: ( eyeing the Twinkies ) Did you know those aren't even baked? They're chemically—risen.
SID 6.7: ( a beat ) So was I. Off the cashier's look, we
DARYL LINDENMEYER: watching the news on a pocket TV on a wooden bench that morning. Both proud and horrified at the monster he has unleashed upon the world. You hear CLASSICAL MUSIC in the Lindenmeyer begins to laugh. Uncontrollably. The sounds echoing. As WE PULL BACK, you realize the bench is one of many inside the Hollywood Bowl. Lindenmeyer is the only person sitting in the stands. He glances down at the members of the Los Angeles Philharmonic as they rehearse for an upcoming performance. Whatever the event is, it's going to be big. Dozens of technicians surround the stage, setting lights, cameras, microphones, etc. for a live, pay—per—view broadcast.
ALEXIEV BORGEN: talking on a phone inside the Cal Tech Computer Lab.
ALEXIEV: I'm afraid I don't have very good PARKER AND MADISON on the speakerphone inside Cox's Office.
MADISON: Were you able to get into the Yes. But then I tripped over an erasure mine.
ALEXIEV: Yes. But then I tripped over an erasure mine.
PARKER: In English, please.
ALEXIEV: I accidently triggered a protection mechanism which erased the entire Parker and Madison turn to each other -— shit.
PARKER: ( a beat ) It's not your fault. We appreciate you trying.
ALEXIEV: Look, I feel bad about this, so I'm going to try to look into the programming of his Maestro teaching tool for you. I've had one sitting around for years. Maybe I can learn something that you'll find useful.
MADISON: Let us know.
SID 6.7: walking along a sidewalk. Noon. Something in a store front catches his attention. Namely, his own image being captured by a video camera pointed at the sidewalk. He is standing outside a large electronics store. Sid 6.7 walks closer to the window, moving into a CLOSE—UP. He is captivated by his image. Fascinated. And intrigued. This is the first time he has ever seen himself on screen.
REPORTER: ( from the TV ) . commuters travelling anywhere near the Biltmore Hotel downtown tomorrow evening should allow themselves at least 30 extra minutes to get home. Security for the Mayor Bennett's Re—Election Rally is going to be so tight that all bus and subway routes passing through the area are being re—routed. Sid 6.7 changes the channel to a different news broadcast. Parker's Folsom County Prison I. D. photograph is shown alongside a photograph of Madison from one of her book Don't you two make a pretty couple. The news broadcast zooms in on Parker's picture. Sid 6.7 wiggles his synthetic fingers in front of his face.
SID 6.7: ( to the TV ) Don't you two make a pretty couple. The news broadcast zooms in on Parker's picture. Sid 6.7 wiggles his synthetic fingers in front of his face.
SKINHEAD: You don't wanna fuck with me, man. He moves to the next TV over and changes the channel to the baseball game. Sid 6.7 moves over with him, standing directly behind the Skinhead as if also interested in the Dodgers.
SID 6.7: ( singing softly ) Take me out to the ball game. Take me out for the fun. He places his hands on the Skinhead's head and efficiently snaps his head around, breaking his neck.
SID 6.7: ( direct address ) I'm sorry I can't do more for you. ( pointing to the Skinhead ) Public service really isn't my He walks into an EXTREME CLOSE-UP and kisses the lense. Then reaches out of frame to help the increasingly—shaky salesman steady the camera.
MADISON: ( to Parker ) Whatever he was doing here was only the start.
PARKER: Start of what?
MADISON: I don't know, yet. What we do know is his performances are increasing in scale, not decreasing. Whatever it is, he isn't She moves closer to the screen as the tape is played back. Madison studies Sid 6.7 intently.
MADISON: ( to another cop ) You mind playing that part again? Her request is obliged.
MADISON: Freeze it there—— She stares at Sid 6.7, who is looking directly at her.
PARKER: You like baseball?
PARKER: ( urgently into radio ) This is Officer Parker Barnes. Get every able body you can to Dodger Stadium J Section.
OFFICER: What the hell's going on?
PARKER: ( re: TV ) Live execution.
BOYFRIEND: You make a better door than a window, buddy. Keep it moving. Sid 6.7 picks him up out of his seat and throws him three rows ahead. Sid 6.7 then puts hands around the Woman's ON THE MASSIVE SCREEN over left field, the Woman attempts to scream as Sid 6.7 chokes her. No sound comes out.
FANS: react with horror. But nobody turns away.
SECURITY PERSONNEL: rush from all parts of the stadium toward J Section.
SID 6.7: enjoys the reactions of the terrified fans around him as he chokes the life out of the Woman.
SID 6.7: ( to the camera ) Hey, Parker, this one's for you. His words ECHO around the stadium as he SNAPS the Woman's neck. He then hurls her limp body toward several men as they charge him.
HIS POV: A bullet rips through Sid 6.7's side. Blood begins to seep from the wound. But then immediately begins to retract. Once his blood has returned, his skin heals over the wound. Leaving a scar. Which also then disappears. Other than the hole in his shirt, Sid 6.7 is as good as new. He never even misses a step as he disappears around the THE SECURITY GUARD stares in disbelief as he is joined by several comrades.
GUARD: I nailed the son—of-a—bitch. I put a hole right through him.
MADISON: SLOW DOWN! Parker JAMS on the brakes with both feet. SCREEEEEEECH!
SLOW DOWN!: Parker JAMS on the brakes with both feet. SCREEEEEEECH!
HIS POV: A guy in Dodger baseball cap and jacket. Walking calmly away from the stadium. He descends down an escalator into a recently-built subway station. It is Sid 6.7.
PARKER: charges after him. A heat—seeking missile locked on target.
MADISON: Parker.. .Parker! She does the best she can to follow after him. People knock into Parker as hard as he does them. A human version of bumper cars. Reaching the entrance to the subway, Parker leaps down the escalator three steps at a time. Madison remains in his wake.
SECURITY ROBOT: ( male, authoritarian ) Stop. You are in violation of. Parker spits in the Robot's electronic eye. Temporarily blinding it, as well as the guy operating it via remote control. Parker and Madison make their getaway as the robotic sentry struggles to clean off his eye.
PARKER: Real effective security.
MADISON: You could have just flashed him your badge, you know?
PARKER: Authority still makes me nervous. They come to a fork: one tunnel goes to east/west trains, the other to north/south.
MADISON: Which way?
PARKER: He races down the tunnel to the north/south trains. Madison heads down the other. Her determination beginning to win out over her inexperience.
PARKER: hesitates at the escalator leading to the south-bound side of the tracks. Further down the tunnel is the escalator to the north—bound trains. Parker chooses the escalator closest to him.
MADISON: She races up the escalator, taking out her weapon.
SHIT!: She races up the escalator, taking out her weapon.
PARKER: peeking out from behind the pillar on the south-bound PARKER'S POV ACROSS THE TRACKS Passengers rush in every direction. Some are screaming. Some are crying. Nobody knows who fired the shot. Or where to go. But everyone is going somewhere. Including Sid 6.7, who makes his way through the flurry of movement toward the up escalator. It is difficult to keep sight of him.
PARKER: moves toward the edge of the platform, aiming his gun across the tracks. Those around him quickly back away.
PARKER: ( yelling ) Everybody get down! Only about half the passengers on the north—bound side can hear him above the screaming already going on. Sid 6.7 is nowhere to be seen.
GET DOWN!!!: The rest of the passengers hit the deck, except for a COLLEGE STUDENT listening to music on headphones. He is riding the escalator up. Sid 6.7 stands behind him, using the student as a shield.
PARKER: doesn't hesitate. He lines up his shot and pulls the trigger.
SID 6.7: ( yelling ) What's wrong, convict, your arms need adjusting? Or maybe it's your head. Maybe you aren't ready to be back out in the real world, yet.
PARKER'S POV: The top of Sid 6.7's head is exposed an inch, maybe two.
PARKER: fires again. Repeatedly. Moving closer and closer to the edge of the platform, trying to get a better angle while he still has a shot. Parker moves to the very edge of the platform. His arm extended out over it. Completely oblivious to
MADISON: leaps off the descending escalator on the south—bound side and rushes to Parker. She pulls Parker back just before the train reaches him. Had his arm still been raised, Parker would have lost his arm a second time. They tumble to the floor. A PASSENGER rushes to Madison.
PASSENGER #1: ( pointing to Parker ) Lady, you gotta stop him! He's gone He just shot an innocent bystander!
PASSENGER #2: He just shot an innocent bystander!
MADISON: ( forcefully to Parker ) What were you shooting at? Parker gets to his feet. Madison doesn't take her eyes off He did —— I saw it!
PASSENGER #1: He did —— I saw it!
PASSENGER #2: DO SOMETHING! Sid's getting away. He heads toward the up escalator. His back now to Madison. She aims her gun at him.
DO SOMETHING!: ( to Madison ) Sid's getting away. He heads toward the up escalator. His back now to Madison. She aims her gun at him.
PARKER: ( to Madison ) Sid's getting away. He heads toward the up escalator. His back now to Madison. She aims her gun at him.
MADISON: Parker -— stop! STOP! Don't make me shoot you——
PARKER: ( not looking back ) If you're gonna do it, better do it He keeps right on going up the escalator.
MADISON: lines up her shot. Hands shaking. With both fear and determination. Her finger presses down on the trigger.but she can't do it.
MADISON: She chases after him.
MADISON: Let me help you. He collapses in her arms.
COLLEGE STUDENT: ( delirious ) What did I do?.I didn't do Clearly versed in emergency medical treatment, Madison attends to his wound. Parker returns.
PARKER: ( breathlessly ) I lost him.
COLLEGE STUDENT: GET HIM AWAY FROM ME! GET HIM AWAY! Call 9-1-1. Wait for me above OUTSIDE OF THE SUBWAY STATION 30 minutes later. The chaos outside Dodger Stadium has subsided. Madison and two PARAMEDICS lead the bandaged College Student to an ambulance. Madison goes to Parker, who sits quietly by himself. Elbows on his knees. Head between his hands. Staring at the cement between his feet.
MADISON: ( furiously ) Call 9-1-1. Wait for me above OUTSIDE OF THE SUBWAY STATION 30 minutes later. The chaos outside Dodger Stadium has subsided. Madison and two PARAMEDICS lead the bandaged College Student to an ambulance. Madison goes to Parker, who sits quietly by himself. Elbows on his knees. Head between his hands. Staring at the cement between his feet.
MADISON: ( angrily ) Do you have any idea the trauma you put that kid through?! Parker doesn't respond. All around them, a cacophony of news broadcasts is heard. From passing cars. From boom boxes. From portable TVs. Over and over, you hear what Sid 6.7 had said while killing the woman in Dodger Stadium:
PARKER: ( in a whisper ) That's Grimes. Madison backs away in fear. Parker rises gradually.
MADISON: ( standing her ground ) No! Grimes isn't back. He's only one part of Sid. Sid 6.7 is a hell of a lot worse than Grimes ever was. Get a hold of yourself! She tries to grab him by the shoulders. Parker blocks her arms away.
PARKER: ( going nose—to—nose ) But he's in there. And you knew it, didn't you? Didn't you?! She tries to back away, but backs herself against a light pole. Madison has nowhere to go. Parker grabs her by the collar, and shoves her against the pole. Hard.
GUARD: Hands up! Now! Parker slowly raises his hands in the air. A Guard relieves him of his weapon.
MADISON: ( recovering ) What's going on?
GUARD: He's going back where he belongs. Deane and Cox step out of the police vehicle.
DEANE: ( to Madison ) You were right, Dr. Carter. Letting a lunatic like Barnes loose in the real world did pose an unacceptably dangerous risk to the public. ( glancing at Cox ) I should have never tried to solve one problem by allowing the creation of another. ( to Madison ) Chief Cox will give you a ride back to the station. You will provide him with any and all information you have developed thus far. ( to Parker ) Enjoy the rest of your sentence, Mr. Barnes. She exits. Cox and Parker stand facing each other. Cox wishes there was something he could do. Parker looks completely out of it. Cox extends his hand. After a moment, Parker takes it. But his mind is way off elsewhere.
GUARD: ( forcefully to Parker ) Let's go. Madison looks on as Parker is herded roughly into the back of the prison transport.
MADISON: Parker shuts her up with a look. There is nothing that can be said. The prison transport doors are SLAMMED shut. The vehicle takes off.
MADISON: ( with regret ) I should have told him.
COX: Don't blame yourself. In your shoes, I don't think I would have told Parker, either. So do you think Grimes has become the dominant personality?
MADISON: I'm not sure. My guess is that's what Sid wants us to think.
COX: ( a beat ) You think he's smart?
MADISON: Captain, I'm afraid of how smart Sid 6.7 is. But I'm even more afraid of what's he's becoming.
PARKER: What the hell's going on?! He scrambles to the front of the compartment, pressing his face against the steel mesh of the four—inch portal.
SID 6.7: ( neighborly ) Hey, old buddy, old pal, good to see you again.
PARKER: You.mother.fucker! I'M GOING TO
KILL YOU!!!: SID 6.7 Now, is that any way to talk to an old buddy? I mean, just because I'm carrying around the joy of killing your family inside me doesn't mean we can't be friends.
SID 6.7: Now, is that any way to talk to an old buddy? I mean, just because I'm carrying around the joy of killing your family inside me doesn't mean we can't be friends.
PARKER: GRIMES, YOU'RE DEAD! He savagely hurls himself against his confines. Bone vs. metal. Don't try this at home.
SID 6.7: I'm sorry, the party you're trying to reach is not answering. Is there anyone else you would like to talk DEAD! YOU HEAR ME? You really are pathetic, you know that? Mathew Grimes is only one letter in my alphabet. He is nothing compared to me. Parker is completely spent. Mentally and physically. He slumps in a corner. Out of breath. Bleeding. Sore. All he can do is stare out through the portal's mesh at Sid 6.7.
PARKER: DEAD! YOU HEAR ME? You really are pathetic, you know that? Mathew Grimes is only one letter in my alphabet. He is nothing compared to me. Parker is completely spent. Mentally and physically. He slumps in a corner. Out of breath. Bleeding. Sore. All he can do is stare out through the portal's mesh at Sid 6.7.
SID 6.7: ( a beat ) You really are pathetic, you know that? Mathew Grimes is only one letter in my alphabet. He is nothing compared to me. Parker is completely spent. Mentally and physically. He slumps in a corner. Out of breath. Bleeding. Sore. All he can do is stare out through the portal's mesh at Sid 6.7.
PARKER: CUT TO: INSIDE A CONFERENCE ROOM IN L. A. P. D. HEADQUARTERS An AIDE rushes through the door to Cox, who's briefing Deane and Wallace on what he has learned.
AIDE: Parker Barnes just escaped from the prison transport. Both of the guards are dead. The Aide exits.
COX: ( to Deane ) Barnes wouldn't kill two innocent He would slaughter eight people sitting in a room, but not two prison guards?
DEANE: He would slaughter eight people sitting in a room, but not two prison guards?
COX: Do I need to remind you what happened to his wife? To his I will stake my reputation that Barnes didn't kill those guards.
DEANE: You already have staked your Mayor Bennett and I have been friends a long time. Since Grimes tried to kill him, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to come to the conclusion that Sid 6.7 might go after him, too. Bennett's Re-Election Rally is tomorrow night and we already have enough trouble on our hands with one psychotic on the loose. The fail-safe on—line, yet?
WALLACE: On—line and at your disposal.
COX: ( to Deane ) What fail—safe?
DEANE: ( approaching Wallace ) This had better work, Mr. Wallace. Wallace exits the room. Cox has no idea what is going on. And Deane is not about to tell him.
MADISON: Oh, shit! Grabbing a handful of clothes, she bolts urgently out the speeding recklessly through city streets in her car. She doesn't stop for red lights. Not for grid-lock. Not for She is also still finishing getting dressed.
MADISON: speeding recklessly through city streets in her car. She doesn't stop for red lights. Not for grid-lock. Not for She is also still finishing getting dressed.
MADISON: ( urgently ) There is no way Parker killed those guards. No way.
COX: I think we both know who did. What's so urgent?
MADISON: I need your help Taking him by the arm, she leads him into an elevator going down just before its doors close.
COX: Why didn't anybody tell me?!
MADISON: I don't set policy. You have the key? He takes a security key out of his pocket and uses it to gain access to a subterranean floor.
COX: ( angrily ) This is a police department. I'll be damned if this is going to go on without my knowledge. They exit quickly. Cox leads Madison
COX: Give me 30 seconds, then flip every switch you can reach.
MADISON: Got it.
TECHNICIAN: Who are we going to fry?
WALLACE: Just an unrepentant criminal who is apparently going to die from a previously undiagnosed brain tumor. Cox enters, concerning Wallace.
COX: Just paying my last respects. He surveys the electronic map, locating Parker. Just as the lights go BLACK. Wallace and the technician immediately What happened?!
WALLACE: What happened?!
TECHNICIAN: I don't know. We've lost all power!
COX: The heat's been causing brown out's all over the city. Get above ground until it's restored. Wallace and the technician rush out of the room, up the emergency stairs. Cox sets to work ripping out the console's circuitry. By the time he's finished, the equipment in here won't be able to toast a piece of bread.
A TOMBSTONE: which reads: LINDA DAVIS BARNES ( 1961—1992 ) and CHRISTINE MARY BARNES ( 1987-1992 ). Parker kneels in front of it. Magic Madison, and Cox wind their way to him through obstacle course of tombstones. Parker stands as they arrive. He is wiped out. There is no emotion left in him.
MADISON: We know you didn't kill those They're going to fry me for it, Nobody's going to fry anybody. He approaches, holding the Circuits he ripped out of the Locator Transmission Room.
PARKER: They're going to fry me for it, Nobody's going to fry anybody. He approaches, holding the Circuits he ripped out of the Locator Transmission Room.
COX: Nobody's going to fry anybody. He approaches, holding the Circuits he ripped out of the Locator Transmission Room.
COX: ( re: circuits ) Don't worry, they have no idea where you are.
PARKER: You son—of—a—bitch. How could you let them put the implant in my head? How?
MADISON: He didn't know about the neural I did.
PARKER: ( matter-of-factly ) You knew the entire time? Can you give me one good reason why I shouldn't kill you right now?
COX: She saved your life, Parker. She didn't have to, but she did.
PARKER: ( turning to Madison ) Then I guess we're even.
MADISON: ( a beat ) How did you find out about the Sid 6.7 told me after he killed the two guards. He suggested I kill you rather than him.
PARKER: Sid 6.7 told me after he killed the two guards. He suggested I kill you rather than him.
MADISON: You're not capable of it.
PARKER: I pose an unacceptable danger to the public, remember?
MADISON: I was wrong. And I was wrong not to tell you Grimes was part of Sid. I should have told you. I won't make the same mistake again. She means it. Parker turns away, looking at his wife's The son—of—a-bitch is still out there, Parker. Parker turns toward him slowly. Emotion beginning to return to his face.
COX: The son—of—a-bitch is still out there, Parker. Parker turns toward him slowly. Emotion beginning to return to his face.
PARKER: ( a beat ) When this is over, will you get this goddam thing out of my head?
COX: On my life, I promise you I will.
PARKER: If you're lying, I'll hunt you down and kill you myself.
SID 6.7: ( applauding ) Who the hell are you?
FOREMAN: Who the hell are you?
SID 6.7: Someone who appreciates the artistic value of high—explosives. He shoots the Foreman in the chest. Sid 6.7 relieves him of his keys and heads to an explosives storage shed.
SID 6.7: carrying a crate of C-4 high-explosives out of the shed in the construction sight minutes later. He adds it to the dozen crates already loaded in a truck. And takes off.
SID 6.7: ( admiring his work ) You think you know me, but you don't have any idea who I really OUTSIDE THE BILTMORE HOTEL sight of Mayor Bennett's upcoming Re-Election Rally, Cox supervises an army of L. A. P. D. officers who are securing the area. Bomb—sniffing dogs. Rooftop snipers. Helicopter surveillance. Nothing is being left to chance. Anyone doing anything within 100 yards of the building is searched, including the REPORTERS and their CAMERA CREWS covering the convention's security.
MADISON: The rally's a little obvious as a target, don't you think?
PARKER: I told you before, Grimes liked to be obvious.
MADISON: Sid 6.7 isn't Grimes.
PARKER: Part of him is. Various faces in the crowd on the sidewalk. In the vehicles passing on the street. On the bridge crossing the street down the block further away from the hotel.
PARKER: puts down his binoculars. Madison does not.
PARKER: See something?
MADISON: I'm not sure.on the bridge.the guy at the payphone. She points to what she's looking at. Looking through his binoculars, he still can't see what she means. She helps him aim his binoculars.
PARKER: Nice work.
MADISON: ( a beat ) They move briskly down the block toward the bridge. Quickly climbing a set of stairs.
SNIPER #1: Well, look who we have here.
SNIPER #2: ( into radio ) Parker Barnes is heading south toward the bridge. If anybody can get a clean shot at him, take it.
COX: hears the order over his radio headset. He races toward the bridge. As do a dozen other cops.
SID 6.7: Be a reporter —— figure it out for yourself. All I'm going to tell you is that at 8:00 tomorrow night, I will become legendary.
SID 6.7: ( to Parker ) Brings back memories, doesn't it?
THE SNIPER: is some 300 yards away on a rooftop. His rifle is mounted on a tripod. His aim is perfectly steady.
SNIPER: ( into his radio headset ) Say good—bye, Parker Barnes. Parker stands frozen, staring at Sid 6.7 through his gun sight. Looking for just an inch of him to stick out from behind Madison's terrified face.
SID 6.7: ( to Parker ) I wouldn't pull the trigger if I were you——
PARKER: Why's that? Cox advances toward Sid 6.7 from the side of the bridge. Cox's gun out and ready. His finger on the trigger.
COX: Hey, Sid, what were you planning on doing with the C-4? Sid 6.7 turns his head in surprise toward Cox as a rifle is FIRED in the distance. Cox steps directly in the sniper's line-of-fire and takes the bullet meant for Parker through the chest. Cox drops to the bridge.
PARKER: He rushes to Cox. Parker drops to his knees, cradling Cox's head. Cox isn't long for this earth. Looking up to Parker, he tries to talk. But nothing comes out.
NOOOOOO!: He rushes to Cox. Parker drops to his knees, cradling Cox's head. Cox isn't long for this earth. Looking up to Parker, he tries to talk. But nothing comes out.
HIS POV: Sid 6.7 lands on top of a garbage truck passing beneath the bridge. The garbage truck disappears beneath the bridge.
COP #4: Parker ignores them. He bolts across the street, moving in the same direction as the bus below. Through speeding Bullets fly. Parker keeps charging. Right in front of a moving van barreling across the bridge. The cops lose sight of Parker.
COP #5: Think he made it?
SID 6.7: I have to tell you, I do enjoy you, Parker. I really don't want to have to kill you. The sanitation worker at the wheel of the truck has no idea whatsoever what is happening on top of his truck.
MADISON: ( whispering into his ear ) I figured you'd show up sooner or ON TOP OF THE GARBAGE TRUCK Parker and Sid 6.7 continue battling next to the compactor's lethal jaws. The machine makes an awful, grinding sound. Not unlike the sounds Parker and Sid 6.7 are making. The fight is primal. Savage. And moving at 30 miles-per-hour.
PARKER: What C-4.was Cox talking about?
SID 6.7: Let me put it to you this way. whether I'm here.or whether I'm not.I'm leaving an indelible mark on the world tomorrow night.
PARKER: Where did you plant the C-4?! He should concentrate more on fighting, and less on asking questions, because he's losing. Parker takes a wicked shot to the face, and then the groin. Sid 6.7 holds Parker's head between the compactor's jaws. Which are closing. With every last ounce of effort he has, Parker hurls his legs up into Sid 6.7. Which throws Sid 6.7 into the compactor. The steel jaws immediately close in on Sid 6.7, who frantically tries to climb out. He gets his hands out. Then his head. But that's about it. Without emphasizing graphic detail, Sid 6.7 is decapitated. His lifeless body drops back into the compactor. His head tumbles to the street. The force of the impact causes the Sid 6.7 character module to separate from the neural net. The character module scatters into the street. Parker immediately jumps off the truck after it.
MADISON: ( to Parker ) Find out anything?
PARKER: A bomb's going off tomorrow night, but I have no idea where.
LINDENMEYER: ( a beat ) There is only one way to get any more information out of Sid 6.7. They scan the area for a new mode of transport. And find one stopped at a dumpster down the block: the garbage truck.
MADISON: Can I ask you something?
PARKER: ( with a smile ) You mean there's something you haven't asked me?
MADISON: ( a beat ) You've already fulfilled the terms of your pardon. You stopped Sid 6.7 and you've got his module. You're free to go —— right now. ( a beat ) Why are you going to do this?
PARKER: You don't know?
MADISON: ( shaking her head ) That's why I'm asking.
PARKER: Because this pain—in—the—ass criminal psychology expert has helped me understand what I'm capable of. And what I'm not. And better than anyone else, I am capable of stopping Sid 6.7.
SID 6.7: I have to tell you, I do enjoy you, Parker. I really don't want to have to kill you. The sanitation worker at the wheel of the truck has no idea whatsoever what is happening on top of his truck. Parker and Sid 6.7 battle next to the compactor's lethal jaws. The machine makes an awful, grinding sound. Not unlike the sounds Parker and Sid 6.7 are making. The fight is primal. Savage. And moving at 30 miles-per—hour.
PARKER: What C-4.was Cox talking about?
SID 6.7: Let me put it to you this way. whether I'm here. or whether I'm not.I'm leaving an indelible mark on the world tomorrow night.
PARKER: Where did you plant the C-4?! He should concentrate more on fighting, and less on asking questions, because he's losing. Parker takes a wicked shot to the face, and but then blocks the anticipated shot to his Sid 6.7 still manages to put Parker's head between the compactor's jaws. Which are closing. With every last ounce of effort he has, Parker hurls his legs up into Sid 6.7. Which throws Sid 6.7 into the compactor. Sid 6.7 frantically tries to climb out of the compactor as the steel jaws close in on him. He gets his hands out. Then his head. Except Parker now does something different. Just before Sid 6.7 is decapitated, Parker jams a metal rod between the compactor's steel teeth. Then grabs Sid 6.7 by the throat.
PARKER: ( fiercely ) You can't die until you tell me where the C-4 is. Where is it?!
SID 6.7: ( choking ) He SLAMS the back of his head into Parker's nose. Breaking it. Parker reels back in pain. Sid 6.7 squeezes out from within the steel teeth. The jagged metal cutting into him, striping him with blood. The blood then begins to retract. Sid 6.7's wounds, once again, heal Too bad you can't regenerate. As the truck slows at an intersection, he jumps to the street. Parker goes after him. Still in excruciating pain. WE PULL BACK TO REVEAL what you are seeing is
LINDENMEYER: I told you this would work.. By setting back the clocks, he has absolutely no idea he's in virtual reality. He still thinks he's in the real world.
MADISON: ( a beat ) What's wrong with Parker?
LINDENMEYER: ( innocently ) How should I know?
MADISON: ( getting an idea ) Show me his physical sensory level. She clicks back the hammer of her gun and presses the barrel against Lindenmeyer's ear. He does as told. On a panel by the console, you read: PARTICIPANT PHYSICAL SENSORY LEVEL: 670%.
LINDENMEYER: I wonder how that.
SID 6.7: ( surprised at Parker's ruthlessness ) We really aren't that different, are we? What he cannot see is that behind the column, Affluent Shopper 2.1 is Auto Resetting. Parker puts his gun to the shopper's head.
PARKER: ( whispering ) Don't move, and don't make a sound. Got it? Affluent Shopper 2.1 nods his head repeatedly. Parker collects himself behind the column, then pivots out from behind it. Firing in Sid 6.7's direction. Each bullet finds its mark. Absorbing the blows, Sid 6.7 backs up against the atrium railing. Taking one final shot, he falls backward. Over the PARKER'S POV Sid 6.7 tumbles through the atrium. Out of control. Speeding toward the ground seven floors below.
PARKER'S POV: Sid 6.7 tumbles through the atrium. Out of control. Speeding toward the ground seven floors below.
SID 6.7: Man, what a rush. Adios, amigo! Grabbing his gun, he takes off out of the lobby.
INSIDE LETAC: Madison and Lindenmeyer watch Parker on screen. Madison still has her gun trained on Lindenmeyer, who notices a WARNING LIGHT start to flash. He turns to Parker's unconscious body lying on the bed. Lindenmeyer looks concerned.
MADISON: What's wrong? Lindenmeyer checks several readings on his console.
LINDENMEYER: He's developing a hemisphere Talk so I can understand.
MADISON: Talk so I can understand.
LINDENMEYER: If I don't adjust the level of neural information each side of his brain is receiving, he won't be able to walk when I take him out of
MADISON: Then fix it. As Lindenmeyer moves to Parker, Madison stays right with him. Her gun aimed at Lindenmeyer's head. Lindenmeyer carefully removes one of the neural connectors from Parker's skull cap. Before removing another, he looks for a safe place to put the I need you to hold this. It can't get any dirt on it. Madison is reluctant, but doesn't know what else to do. Lindenmeyer slowly gives the neural connector to her free All you have to do is hold the needle at the base. Just make sure not to jab yourself with the She clutches the needle in her left hand while aiming her gun with her right. Lindenmeyer removes a second neural connector from Parker's skull. Holding this second needle at the base, Lindenmeyer makes several adjustments on the neural management computer, then moves slowly back to Madison.
LINDENMEYER: I need you to hold this. It can't get any dirt on it. Madison is reluctant, but doesn't know what else to do. Lindenmeyer slowly gives the neural connector to her free All you have to do is hold the needle at the base. Just make sure not to jab yourself with the She clutches the needle in her left hand while aiming her gun with her right. Lindenmeyer removes a second neural connector from Parker's skull. Holding this second needle at the base, Lindenmeyer makes several adjustments on the neural management computer, then moves slowly back to Madison.
SID 6.7: So close, and yet, so far. He kicks the weapon down the sidewalk, then points his gun at Parker's head.
PARKER: I thought you liked me being in the audience. Don't you want me to see Sid 6.7 pauses to think about it.
SID 6.7: ( considering the idea ) You know, I do want you to see it. He shoots Parker in his other knee cap, rendering both of his legs useless.
SID 6.7: There you go —— best seat in the You are going after Mayor Bennett.
PARKER: ( with some surprise ) You are going after Mayor Bennett.
SID 6.7: Let's just say I'm sending a very clear message to his Re—Election He walks toward an open stairway door behind them.
PARKER: Aren't you going to watch with me?
SID 6.7: I've got some final preparations to take care of—— Checking his watch, he stops suddenly.
SID 6.7: ( as if to God ) Thank-you, Daryl. ( turning to Parker ) You had me going for quite a while there, sport.
PARKER: What are you talking about?
SID 6.7: I really did think I was still in reality. At least, until now. Beam me up, Scotty! His body DISINTEGRATES before your eyes. It's electronic particles form into an amorphous cloud. Which disappears from Madison, get me out of here!
PARKER: ( yelling ) Madison, get me out of here!
MADISON!: Lindenmeyer watches Parker scream on the monitor. Madison remains unconscious on the floor behind him.
LINDENMEYER: ( to the monitor ) She's taking a nap at the moment. He types a set of instructions into the console and hits
INSIDE LETAC: Parker's screams for help ECHO throughout the facility. But there is no one there to hear him.
OUTSIDE LETAC: The garbage truck is parked in a loading dock. Lindenmeyer climbs awkwardly onto the truck, then into the compactor.
LINDENMEYER: Come on, live. Live! The synthetic nervous system begins to crackle with life. Growing around the module. Forming the beginnings of a new head. Literally.
PARKER: sitting precariously on the increasingly-uneven roof of the Hollywood Tower in virtual reality. Unable to break free of his binds, he rocks the chair onto its side. He and the chair fall to the roof, which will keep him from falling to his death for another minute, if he's lucky.
PARKER: INSIDE LINDENMEYER'S STATION Madison, still unconscious on the floor, finally stirs. Maybe Parker's screaming is finally reaching her. Or at least, starting to.
MADISON!!!: INSIDE LINDENMEYER'S STATION Madison, still unconscious on the floor, finally stirs. Maybe Parker's screaming is finally reaching her. Or at least, starting to.
SID 6.7: I am beautiful, aren't I?
LINDENMEYER: Of course you are. Sid 6.7 wades through the trash toward Lindenmeyer.
SID 6.7: How can I ever thank—you for bringing me back to life a second time, Daryl?
LINDENMEYER: Help me get out of here.
SID 6.7: Glad to. He reaches out to give Lindenmeyer a hand, then grabs him by the throat. Choking him. Lindenmeyer can't believe what is What.are you doing?! Sid 6.7 takes Lindenmeyer's face gently in his hands.
LINDENMEYER: ( gagging ) What.are you doing?! Sid 6.7 takes Lindenmeyer's face gently in his hands.
SID 6.7: You made me a composite of 183 of the most vicious people who ever What do you think I'm doing?
LINDENMEYER: I'm begging you.please don't kill me! Please!
SID 6.7: ( reassuringly ) Don't worry. Through me, you will live forever. As Lindenmeyer begins to scream, we
PARKER: hanging on by his fingertips to the bulbous roof of the Hollywood Tower. He's going to fall at any second.
SID 6.7: Dr. Carter —— I've been hoping we'd get a moment together. Mustering her strength, she manages to crawl behind several of the computers which make up the simulator. Sid 6.7 advances calmly toward her.
INSIDE LETAC: Madison crawls into a darkened engineer's station and hides. She is still very dizzy. And trying to keep the sound of her breathing to a minimum. Sid 6.7 enters quietly. A hunter on the prowl. Moving very slowly. Then lunging very swiftly. He continues the hunt. If Madison is discovered, she doesn't have a prayer. Her heart pounds. Her forehead perspires. Sid 6.7 is getting Sid 6.7 checks inside closets. Cabinets. Anywhere large enough for a human being to fit. He is practically standing over her. Looking. Listening.
SID 6.7: How does it feel to know you're going to die? What are you thinking Lights in the building suddenly come on. Several engineers can be heard entering. It's 8 AM —— the start of a new day. The facility is quickly becoming populated. After giving one last look around, Sid 6.7 reluctantly gives up the hunt, and exits. Madison does not move until she is certain Sid 6.7 has left the building.
SOMEBODY HELP!: Madison scrambles out of her hiding place.
PARKER: finally losing his grip on the roof of the Hollywood Tower in virtual reality. He plummets with accelerating speed. Madison bursts through the partition around Lindenmeyer's station. Sacrificing her body. Without regard for pain. Parker tumbles toward the sidewalk 67 stories below. The speed is terrifying. Madison leaps over a table. Diving for the simulator's RETURN Parker falls faster. And faster. The street just beneath him. The instant before he slams into the street, his body DE
MADISON: You okay?
PARKER: ( shaking out the cobwebs ) .I think so.You?
MADISON: ( looking over her bruises ) More or less.
PARKER: My guess is dead.
MADISON: My guess is dead.
PARKER: I don't know. Several engineers peek in curiously at them.
MADISON: I don't know. Several engineers peek in curiously at them.
PARKER: ( on the phone ) Elizabeth Deane, please. Tell her it's Parker Barnes.
DEANE: Barnes, where the hell have you Trying to find out where the bomb is. Where the hell have you been?
PARKER: Trying to find out where the bomb is. Where the hell have you been?
DEANE: What did you find out?
PARKER: Call off the manhunt looking for me. I didn't kill the transport It's already been called off. Witnesses confirmed you weren't the Did you find out where the bomb is?
DEANE: It's already been called off. Witnesses confirmed you weren't the Did you find out where the bomb is?
PARKER: No, but I've confirmed the reelection rally is the target. How much C-4 is missing?
DEANE: Enough to level an entire city If I were you, I'd get every demolition team in the city searching in and around the Biltmore Hotel.
PARKER: If I were you, I'd get every demolition team in the city searching in and around the Biltmore Hotel.
DEANE: ( with frustration ) Demolition teams have searched everywhere in and around the hotel. I don't know Sid is smart enough to know you'd check everywhere in the immediate area. Whatever the device is, he's probably got it timed to move into position just before it detonates. Have the demo teams check every subway tunnel, water pipe, gas pipe, and sewer pipe that goes under, over, or into the arena.
PARKER: ( interrupting ) Sid is smart enough to know you'd check everywhere in the immediate area. Whatever the device is, he's probably got it timed to move into position just before it detonates. ( a beat ) Have the demo teams check every subway tunnel, water pipe, gas pipe, and sewer pipe that goes under, over, or into the arena.
DEANE: You know how much man power you're talking about?
PARKER: You're the highest law enforcement official in the country. Use the fucking army if you need to. He hangs up the phone.
DEANE: ( to Parker ) This better not be a wild goose Or what, you'll authorize my death a second time today?
PARKER: Or what, you'll authorize my death a second time today?
DEANE: ( sharply ) Don't forget, convict, if this psycho isn't stopped, you go right back to rotting in a prison cell.
MADISON: Give him a break, would you?
MALE VOICE: ( from scanner ) This is demo team 27 leader. I think we just found what we've been looking for.
TEAM LEADER: One more and we're home free. Snip. The three members of the demo team look up proudly to each other. Breathing sighs of relief. It's 7:42.
DEANE: Thank God.
DEANE: ( with concern, into radio ) What's the problem?
TEAM LEADER: The good news is, we're finished here. The bad news is.
AIDE: You've got a phone call. Parker grabs the phone.
PARKER: ( expecting it to be Sid ) You son-of—a—bitch, I'm going to kill you.
PARKER: ( a beat ) I'm sorry, I thought you were somebody else.
ALEXIEV: I've discovered something about Lindenmeyer'5 Maestro teaching tool I thought you should know. ( a beat ) The harm done to the music students who used the device —— it was not by accident. The machine was designed explicitly for that purpose. Lindenmeyer intended to hurt the kids using it.
PARKER: Jesus Christ. I know who the dominant personality Madison's reaction is one of panic. She bolts toward their squad car with all the speed she has. Parker chases after Where the hell are you going?
MADISON: Lindenmeyer never got over wanting to kill kids with more musical than he had. She gets into the driver's seat. Parker the passenger's. Madison punches the gas.
SID 6.7: who is dressed in a tuxedo, knocking on the door to Guest Conductor's Dressing Room.
GUEST CONDUCTOR: ( annoyed beyond belief ) Are you just going to stand there, or do you want something? Shaking with concentration, Sid 6.7 turns his hair red. ( Nano—organisms can do this, as well as the following. ) He then grabs his hair and pulls it out, extending it to the exact length of the guest conductor's. Sid 6.7 then changes his complexion to match the conductor's. As well as his eye color, and other facial features. The Guest Conductor can't believe his eyes. By the time Sid 6.7 is finished modifying himself, he may not be an exact duplicate of the guest conductor, but even his mother would have to look twice.
SID 6.7: It's show time. He shoves the Guest Conductor back into his Dressing Room. Sid 6.7 follows him in, revealing a suppressed .38. He SLAMS the door behind him.
PARKER: Listen to me, a bomb is planted somewhere in the Hollywood Bowl! Evacuate everybody!
FEMALE VOICE: I'm sorry, sir, I don't have the authorization to do that.
PARKER: Then put somebody on who does!
MALE VOICE: What's seems to be the problem?
PARKER: You've got to stop the concert! A bomb is going to go off!
MALE VOICE: I'm sorry, sir, the concert has already started.
SID 6.7: ( silently ) Don't hold back.Give it to me. Give it to me! The orchestra plays with everything they've got. They hit every note perfectly. Including a high C.
SID 6.7: cannot believe his eyes. Or his ears. The entire orchestra has stopped.
SID 6.7: Come on, play! PLAY! In his rage, his face contorts "past points", which can only be described bizarre, frightening, and not, something you would ever like to see when you look in the mirror. The musicians stare at Sid 6.7, and then at Parker and Madison with concerned, confused silence. Which is broken by Parker's gunfire. Ducking behind the podium, Sid 6.7 desperately tries to rewire the sensors to trigger manually. Without luck. He takes his .38 out of his jacket and starts firing. Pandemonium erupts throughout the Hollywood Bowl. Audience members run in every direction. The members of the orchestra bolt for their very lives, but keep their instruments with them. Even the oboist. Preventing Parker and Madison from taking any further shots at Sid 6.7. Sid 6.7 bolts down into the crowd. Madison cannot get off a clean shot. Neither can Parker. He aims, but does NOT fire. He and Madison struggle through the crowd after him.
PARKER: ( neighborly ) Hey, old buddy, old pal, good to see you again. He empties his clip into Sid 6.7, then discards the gun. As Sid 6.7's wounds heal themselves, Parker pounds him ( losing it ) You.ruined.I'M GOING TO KILL
SID 6.7: ( losing it ) You.ruined.I'M GOING TO KILL
YOU!!!: Trading blows, he manages to get to his feet.
PARKER: Now, is that any way to talk to an old friend?
SID 6.7: ( exploding )
MADISON: Hey, Parker. She moves around, trying to get a clean shot at Sid 6.7. Which she does not have.
PARKER: How's your pulse?
MADISON: ( totally focused ) I couldn't tell you.
PARKER: Then shoot him already.
MADISON: Without hesitation, Parker hits the deck. Leaving Sid 6.7 completely exposed. Madison steadies her sight.
SID 6.7: ( to Madison ) You couldn't hit the side of a. As he raises his two—by—four high over Parker's head, Madison pulls the trigger smoothly. IN SLOW MOTION, you follow the bullet as it exits the barrel of her gun. And penetrates Sid 6.7's skull between the eyes and exits out the back of his head. Sid 6.7 collapses on the ground next to Parker.
MADISON: What do we do now?
PARKER: You won't want to watch. Turn She does so. Parker reaches OUT OF FRAME to remove the Sid 6.7 character module from within his skull. Then reveals the character module in hand.
MADISON: What should we do with it? Glancing in the flatbed of a truck, Parker gets an idea, and knocks on the driver's window. As the DRIVER rolls down his window, classic ROCK & ROLL MUSIC can be heard from inside.
PARKER: Mind if I borrow a couple of your tools for a second?
DRIVER: Be my guest. Parker removes two sledgehammers from the back of the truck. He offers one to Madison.
PARKER: Care to join me? Madison gladly accepts takes the sledgehammer. Parker drops the Sid 6.7 character module onto the pavement. And together, they start pounding the shit out of it. WHAM! WHAM! In perfect time with the music. Which the driver cranks even louder. As we ROLL CREDITS.
THE END: Writers : Eric Bernt
