MARK: Ladies, please, we're doing everything we can to handle the situation. Nothing is more important to us than the safety of our shoppers. Now in the meantime, feel free to check out some of our wonderful back-to- school sales. Excuse me for a Have you seen Ronnie?
MARK: Have you seen Ronnie?
RECEPTIONIST: I haven't seen him all morning.
MARK: Ramon, have you seen Ronnie?
JANITOR: No, senor.
MARK: Where is Ronnie?
RONNIE: ( cop authority voice ) Pull over to the sidewalk, NOW!
STEVIE: Fuck off, Ronnie, it's just a parking lot.
RONNIE: Sir, pull over to the sidewalk,
NOW!: HECTOR, another skater, joins in.
HECTOR: Leave us alone.
STEVIE: Yeah, skating's not a crime, dick.
RONNIE: Skateboarding is not allowed on mall premises. Pull over now!
STEVIE: We're not leaving.
HECTOR: Yeah, fuck you!
STEVIE: What the fuck are you doing?
RONNIE: I was driving in reverse and trying to get you to flip into the back seat.
STEVIE: That way I could handcuff you smoothly and take you in. You know, never mind, just get in the goddamn golf cart.
RONNIE: That way I could handcuff you smoothly and take you in. You know, never mind, just get in the goddamn golf cart.
RONNIE: It seems like we go through this every day. What's it going to take for you all to realize that I won't tolerate this horseplay and just do whatever you want to and don't worry about the rules Ronnie, I hear what you're saying and I just want you to know that personally, it pains me to see you all worked up and I just want you to know that I'm really sorry because you can't do shit and you can take your little rules and stick'em up your ass, you fuckin'
STEVIE: Ronnie, I hear what you're saying and I just want you to know that personally, it pains me to see you all worked up and I just want you to know that I'm really sorry because you can't do shit and you can take your little rules and stick'em up your ass, you fuckin'
HECTOR: Yeah, suck my dick.
RONNIE: That's funny, guys. I try to be a mentor to the youth, but it seems like you boys have gone straight past boydom to the land of street- hardened criminals. I'm left with no choice. You call me rent-a- cop, but I call myself the law's right hand. I see the crime. and I phone it in. And that's what I'm getting ready to do right
RONNIE: ( into walkie ) 317, this is Ronnie Barnhardt over at Carolina Mall. Come in, over.
RONNIE: ( into walkie ) I've got a couple of trespassers who have been found skateboarding on mall property. Can you send a black and white over to take these boys into processing? Over.
RONNIE: ( into walkie ) What do you mean? I've got these guys red-handed. I'm gonna need a car over here pronto. I can't hold them all day by myself. Copy. Yeah, like I said, we're awfully busy right now. I think you should probably just make'em promise not to do it again and threaten to call their parents or something. That'll get them.
RONNIE: ( into walkie ) Sir, I don't think you understand, their parents don't care about them. This is a 911 from one of your soldiers. Officer needs assistance! Over!
RONNIE: So as you can see, the law is just one little call away. But I'm gonna choose not to use that tactic today. I'm gonna do something that I like to do from time to time, and that's called handle shit myself.
RONNIE: While I won't have you arrested today, I am going to suspend each of you for one week. For those of you who don't know how this works, here it is. This is official documentation. If you step foot on mall property, it is considered trespassing. At that point, I call the police, they come down, you go directly to jail.
RONNIE: You accepted it originally, so it still counts.
NELL: Dear Lord, bless this food that we eat and purify it with Your salvation. Also, please keep Ronnie safe as he works in Your name to protect the customers and employees and store owners of the And please turn your wrath on any sinners that try to hurt him and make them pay by burning in the eternal flames of hell. In Christ's name we pray, amen.
RONNIE: Ronnie begins devouring his Cinnabon.
NELL: So what's on the agenda for you You know, the usual. Spot crime before it happens, perform random acts of bravery, save people from certain death, yada yada yada.
RONNIE: You know, the usual. Spot crime before it happens, perform random acts of bravery, save people from certain death, yada yada yada.
NELL: What's wrong, Ronnie?
RONNIE: Nothing, Nell.
NELL: Ronnie, I know that you really want to be a Police Officer, but you have to realize that things work out the way they're meant to.
RONNIE: I know. I'm okay, Nell. Thanks, but really, I mean, I'm on the front lines right now. I'm livin' Your job is definitely more exciting than mine.
NELL: Your job is definitely more exciting than mine.
RONNIE: Of course it is, but at least you don't have to wrestle with the demons at night. I better get I'll see you after work, sweetie.
NELL: I'll see you after work, sweetie.
RONNIE: Not at work, Nell. We have to keep up appearances, we talked about this. And don't call me I'm sorry. I'll see you after work, Officer Barnhardt.
NELL: I'm sorry. I'll see you after work, Officer Barnhardt.
RONNIE: 'Bye, Nell.
RONNIE: Slow it down. Watch your speed there. This ain't a race. Hey, second time, slow it down.
MARK: I've been looking all over for you.
RONNIE: I haven't been hiding, but some things that I have to do are better to keep hidden from you and 'official' eyes. Trust me, it's best all around if there are no bodies to clean up.
MARK: So you may or may not have heard, but this morning, several women were assaulted just outside the front doors by a crazy Pervert.
RONNIE: For the love of God.
MARK: I know, it's horrible.
RONNIE: You want me to phone this one in to the police?
MARK: Not just yet. See if we call the police, they'll be a big scandal and something like that could kill what little traffic we have at this mall. What I need you to do is watch out for this Pervert and if you see him, try to stop him or quietly phone it in so we can handle this discreetly.
RONNIE: Hold on, Mark. Let me make sure I understand you. You're telling me to deny my primary objective of Observing and Reporting crime and at the same time, you're giving me authorization to handle this case on my own.
MARK: I'm just saying keep an eye out and keep quiet.
RONNIE: So basically, I'm in charge of this whole investigation.
MARK: There's no investigation.
RONNIE: Not yet. Okay, Mark, I'll do it, but I'm gonna need a few things You can't carry a gun.
MARK: You can't carry a gun.
RONNIE: Well, I'm gonna need a new title. Something to instill fear in the criminal mind. How about Director of Mall Intelligence?
MARK: Head of Mall Security.
RONNIE: That's perfect.
MARK: And it doesn't come with a raise.
RONNIE: Got it.
MARK: And the new title stays between Understood. Thank you for this opportunity, Mark. I won't let you down.
RONNIE: Understood. Thank you for this opportunity, Mark. I won't let you down.
FEMALE REPORTER: Excuse me, sir, but we would like to ask you a few questions.
RONNIE: I'm sorry, but I can't answer We heard a report that an unidentified man was spotted earlier today exposing himself to several women. Do you care to I'm not allowed to comment on that So you admit there is a situation.
FEMALE REPORTER: We heard a report that an unidentified man was spotted earlier today exposing himself to several women. Do you care to I'm not allowed to comment on that So you admit there is a situation.
RONNIE: I'm not allowed to comment on that So you admit there is a situation.
FEMALE REPORTER: So you admit there is a situation.
RONNIE: I'm trained to resist torture for up to 72 hours, you really expect me to break now? Get real, lady.
FEMALE REPORTER: ( to her camera crew ) We're wasting our time here. Let's go find some police to Good luck.
RONNIE: Good luck.
FEMALE REPORTER: What's that supposed to mean?
RONNIE: It just means you won't find any Are you telling me the police haven't even been called!
FEMALE REPORTER: Are you telling me the police haven't even been called!
RONNIE: ( SARCASTIC ) Ewww, alert the media.
FEMALE REPORTER: Jesus, well who'd they leave in charge, you?
FEMALE REPORTER: Yeah, right. Why would they leave you in charge?
RONNIE: First of all, if there was a situation to be handled, I don't see why you find it so goddamn ridiculous that I would be in
FEMALE REPORTER: ( setting a trap ) Look, there is no way you're in charge of this investigation.
RONNIE: Well for your information, I'm in charge of this whole fucking I don't give a goddamn if you believe me or not, Ms. Hot Fuckin' SHIT news lady. I'm the first line of defense against this pervert. As the law's right hand, I'm here so that people like you can live in your own little happy world and think places like this mall are safe and fun. I'm the defender of this war zone. Just me and my goddamn flashlight.
SADDAMN: You motherfucker, you put a boot on my car!
RONNIE: ( cop voice ) I warned you about parking in the fire lane, Saddamn!
SADDAMN: Fuck you, Ronnie! Take that goddamn boot off of my car.
RONNIE: ( going into cop
VOICE ): Step away now!
SADDAMN: I pay good money to this mall. Don't tell me where to park!
RONNIE: Sir, I will be forced to take action if you do not step back!
SADDAMN: I'm gonna kill you!
RONNIE: As I was saying, the pervert situation here is real bleak. For all you people out there thinking of coming to the mall, please for your own safety, stay away.
SADDAMN: ( still fucked up ) I can't believe you tased me.
RONNIE: ( to the man ) That's right and I've got another one waiting right here for you.
RONNIE: Hey, Brandi.
RONNIE: That color looks great on your skin. Not just that color, but I've noticed that all make-up looks really good on you. Especially the blue around your eyes. I bet it drives the men
RONNIE: It's okay. I can say that because I'm taken.
BRANDI: What do you want, Ronnie?
RONNIE: I'm here on official business. See, I don't know if you know this, but I have recently been made Head of Mall Security. Did you hear about that?
BRANDI: Well, I'm sure you will. It's actually pretty huge news. But the reason I stopped by is to tell you that it looks like we've got a pervert on the loose. A real live psychopath who gains sexual gratification by exposing himself to ladies such as yourself. I just want to warn you to be careful when coming and going to Okay, got it.
RONNIE: Well, I'm sure you will. It's actually pretty huge news. But the reason I stopped by is to tell you that it looks like we've got a pervert on the loose. A real live psychopath who gains sexual gratification by exposing himself to ladies such as yourself. I just want to warn you to be careful when coming and going to Okay, got it.
BRANDI: Okay, got it.
RONNIE: And you may not want to wear any of those skirts that you like to What skirts?
BRANDI: What skirts?
RONNIE: You know what skirts. Something like that could set him off. And for that matter, you better not wear any of those little low-cut top things either, okay? Especially with those black bras because, you can really see them in the light. Perverts really tend to notice stuff like that. Okay, see you later.
RONNIE: Dennis, man, I'm glad we've got a minute to talk. There's no easy way to say this so I'm just going to come right out with it. Mark offered me the position of Head of Mall Security. I know this isn't easy for you to hear seeing as you've been here longer than me. But I want you to know that you're my best friend and I'm only going to accept the job if you're okay with that.
RONNIE: Well, you should know I've already accepted and it's too late to turn it down now. Every ship needs a captain. So you were passed over. Who gives a shit? Dennis, in time, you'll come to accept answering to me. Remember, there aren't any leaders in friendship. We cool?
RONNIE: Hey, you want to go and grab a beer or something?
RONNIE: Yeah, you're right. You're probably in no mood to party after that news. Well, try not to take it too hard. See you later,
MOM: You think you're ready for a shot at the title, motherfucker?!
RONNIE: I'm ready, Mom.
MOM: Ding ding.
RONNIE: What's wrong, baby? Is your pussy Fuck you!
MOM: What's wrong, baby? Is your pussy Fuck you!
RONNIE: Fuck you!
MOM: You give?
RONNIE: You give?
MOM: Fuck you!
MOM: ( CONTINUED )
RONNIE: You move with me, you go down. You move against me and your arm I give!
MOM: I give!
RONNIE: What's that?
MOM: I give! Let me go, goddamn it.
MOM: I can't believe you got that lucky shit on me.
RONNIE: Luck has nothing to do with it.
MOM: You almost broke my arm.
RONNIE: I'm sorry, Mom. Are you okay?
MOM: Not really.
MOM: ( drunken slur ) I'm so proud of you, Ronnie.
RONNIE: Do you think I did good?
MOM: Hell yes. You were great.
RONNIE: Ah, you're just drunk.
MOM: Nah, you did good.
RONNIE: Yeah, I usually don't come out to the forefront like that.
RONNIE: You working the door here?
BOUNCER: That's what they tell me. They needed to hire a little security here in case the drunks get out of line or whatever.
RONNIE: Kind of funny they thought they needed more security here. Ha. You do realize that if anyone gets out of hand, you need to call me to handle the situation.
BOUNCER: I work for O'Charley's, not for the mall.
RONNIE: Granted, but you realize that my jurisdiction supersedes any and all other forms of security when under the roof of Carolina Mall?
BOUNCER: You know, I thought about getting a job as a Mall Security.
RONNIE: You did?
BOUNCER: Yeah, man. I mean, I'm kind of on extended vacation from college and it's just like, I don't want to do shit, you know what I mean? My parents said I have to work if I want to live at home, but I just don't feel like doing anything. This was the easiest job I could find, I mean, what the hell could be hard about being a bouncer in a mall restaurant? But now that I think about it, Mall Security could be easier than this.
RONNIE: My young friend, you are sorely mistaken. Do you know how much stuff I'm in charge of?
BOUNCER: A shitload. That's not even counting the parking lot.
RONNIE: A shitload. That's not even counting the parking lot.
BOUNCER: Really? I thought you just kind of chilled out and called stuff into the police.
RONNIE: No way, that's about like 75, maybe 82 percent of it. There's so much other stuff.
BOUNCER: Like what?
RONNIE: Two words, Friday Night.
BOUNCER: What about it?
RONNIE: It's crazy, let's just leave it at Listen. I like you, but I don't like the fact that you're masquerading as an official in the security world. If you're serious about a career in the security world, then perhaps I could look into getting you a job on my Oh yeah?
BOUNCER: Listen. I like you, but I don't like the fact that you're masquerading as an official in the security world. If you're serious about a career in the security world, then perhaps I could look into getting you a job on my Oh yeah?
RONNIE: Listen. I like you, but I don't like the fact that you're masquerading as an official in the security world. If you're serious about a career in the security world, then perhaps I could look into getting you a job on my Oh yeah?
BOUNCER: Oh yeah?
RONNIE: Part of my job is reaching out to troubled youths such as yourself. It's who I am.
BOUNCER: Does it pay more than $6.50 an
BOUNCER: ( WHISPERING ) Seven even.
BOUNCER: I'd say that's more than I'm making now.
RONNIE: Hold on, this job involves a probationary period. You have to prove yourself worthy. We can't just hire any old Tom, Dick, or Harry just because they want to carry a flashlight.
BOUNCER: What do I have to do?
RONNIE: You have to complete a term as deputy. You will answer directly to me. Your job will be to come and find me if you see any trouble. If this works out, then I will phone the crime into the police. Now, this will train your eyes to spot various criminal activity. Once you have completed your training, you will be awarded an official position on my security staff where you will have the duty of actually phoning in crimes to the police yourself.
BOUNCER: So basically, I just do what I'm doing now and then you'll get me a For starters.
RONNIE: For starters.
BOUNCER: How long does this mentorship Until Mark lets me hire another Can I smoke while I work?
RONNIE: Until Mark lets me hire another Can I smoke while I work?
BOUNCER: Can I smoke while I work?
RONNIE: Yes, you can.
BOUNCER: Sign me up.
RONNIE: You keep that attitude up and you'll have no problem making the
BOUNCER: What's this?
RONNIE: It's a flashlight. Get to know it. It's your new best friend. Until you get your giant flashlight. Then, that will be your new best friend.
RONNIE: Okay, look alive, soldier. Deputy time starts now. No more slacker attitude for you.
RONNIE: You know, I remember when I got my first flashlight.
MARK: ( to the crowd ) Alright, people, she's doing good. We're just gonna get her down to my office and everything's going to be fine, so the best thing for you employees to do is just get on back to your stations and you customers can go ahead and enjoy the back to school savings here at Carolina Mall.
BRANDI: It was horrible! Oh, my God, the thought of that disgusting I think I'm going to be sick.
BRUCE: Just let it out, baby. He should be ashamed!
BRANDI: I just keep playing it over and over again in my head.
MARK: Brandi, please, Dennis has called the police and let's just take this down to my office.
BRUCE: A Pervert attacked Brandi is what's going on!
BRANDI: Physically, yes. But psychologically, no!
MARK: They're on the way.
MARK: I'm trying, but she just keeps
RONNIE: Brandi! I came as soon as I heard. Jesus, are you alright?
BRANDI: I'm fine, Ronnie.
MARK: She's fine, Ronnie.
RONNIE: This is one of the most heinous things I've seen. Jesus, I tried to tell you about the skirts. It's not your fault, you little fighter you. Ronnie's not mad, Ronnie, can you get her down to my office so the Police can talk to her in private when they arrive.
MARK: Ronnie, can you get her down to my office so the Police can talk to her in private when they arrive.
RONNIE: I can't walk right now. I feel like I'm in shock.
BRANDI: I can't walk right now. I feel like I'm in shock.
RONNIE: Don't worry. I'll carry you.
MARK: Oh, fucking Jesus.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Your secretary told me to come on in. I'm Detective Harrison, Cabarrus County Police.
MARK: Mark Talbert, I manage the mall. This is Brandi, she's the one who saw the deviant.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Hello, Brandi. Are you doing I'm really shaken up.
BRANDI: I'm really shaken up.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Yes, ma'am, I'm sure you are after all you've been through, but I'm here to tell you that we're going to work together to make sure we catch the person who did this.
RONNIE: My name is Ronnie Barnhardt, chief inspector on the case and head of Mall Security here at Carolina Mall and this is my lieutenant, Dennis. From one law enforcement officer to another, I just want to welcome you and say that we will do whatever it takes to coordinate with your department in order to bring this assailant to justice.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: ( back to Brandi ) Okay, Brandi. Did you get a look at the suspect?
BRANDI: Yes, I did.
RONNIE: Did you get a blood sample?
BRANDI: That's a shame. Would have been Go ahead, Detective.
RONNIE: That's a shame. Would have been Go ahead, Detective.
MARK: Go ahead, Detective.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Thank you. Brandi, can you remember anything specifically? What color was his hair? Was he tall or short?
BRANDI: He was tall and skinny and he had brown hair and it was real greasy.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Was his hair long or short?
BRANDI: It was long about to his Did he say anything?
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Did he say anything?
BRANDI: No, he just stood there and you know, touched himself.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: What was he wearing?
BRANDI: Just a brown trench coat.
RONNIE: This is what I got so far.
RONNIE: What's yours look like?
DETECTIVE HARRISON: I just wrote a description.
RONNIE: Ronnie puts his sketch away.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Okay, Brandi, I think that's good for now. I think the best thing at this point is to just follow up with the other ladies who saw the perpetrator yesterday and see if they remember anything.
BRANDI: What if he comes back?
DETECTIVE HARRISON: That's highly unlikely. These incidents are usually random and unpredictable. I'm sure you'll be I'm afraid I'm going to have to disagree with you there, Detective. By my math, it seems pretty clear that Brandi's been Targeted? What gives you that Well, how about the fact that she was the first employee to get assaulted? Not to mention the fact that she is the prettiest girl who works at this mall. To me it seems obvious that this is some sort of methodical villain that plans on returning to finish what he started by murdering Is that going to happen?!
RONNIE: I'm afraid I'm going to have to disagree with you there, Detective. By my math, it seems pretty clear that Brandi's been Targeted? What gives you that Well, how about the fact that she was the first employee to get assaulted? Not to mention the fact that she is the prettiest girl who works at this mall. To me it seems obvious that this is some sort of methodical villain that plans on returning to finish what he started by murdering Is that going to happen?!
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Targeted? What gives you that Well, how about the fact that she was the first employee to get assaulted? Not to mention the fact that she is the prettiest girl who works at this mall. To me it seems obvious that this is some sort of methodical villain that plans on returning to finish what he started by murdering Is that going to happen?!
RONNIE: Well, how about the fact that she was the first employee to get assaulted? Not to mention the fact that she is the prettiest girl who works at this mall. To me it seems obvious that this is some sort of methodical villain that plans on returning to finish what he started by murdering Is that going to happen?!
BRANDI: Is that going to happen?!
DETECTIVE HARRISON: That's not going to happen.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Well don't worry. I'm on the case and I'm going to do everything in my power to bring this guy down.
RONNIE: That's right, Brandi, you've got the best team in law enforcement working for you.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Look, I've got to get going. Here's my card. I'll even write my home phone number on the back, just in the event you need to get a hold of me.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Give me a call when you aren't working and I'll have you come to the station to look through some mug shots. Don't worry okay.
BRANDI: I feel a lot better now.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: I'll take one of those cards as Oh, okay.
RONNIE: I'll take one of those cards as Oh, okay.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Oh, okay.
RONNIE: Go ahead and write your home phone on there as well in case I need to get a hold of you.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: You can just leave a message at the station. I check my messages Sorry, but I'm gonna need those digits. If we're gonna solve this crime we need to constantly be in communication with each other and have an open door policy with intelligence. Brandi, let me see that card.
RONNIE: Sorry, but I'm gonna need those digits. If we're gonna solve this crime we need to constantly be in communication with each other and have an open door policy with intelligence. Brandi, let me see that card.
RONNIE: Cool, I'll call you later with an Don't do that.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Don't do that.
RONNIE: It's no problem at all. We're brothers of the badge. This is what we do for each other.
RONNIE: Seems like a good guy. A little green, but still solid.
NELL: What are you doing?
RONNIE: Just putting these posters up.
NELL: You've been so obsessed with catching this pervert I've barely seen you.
RONNIE: That's what it's like when you date the Head of Mall Security. The downside is we don't get to see each other as much, but the upside is you get to brag to all your friends.
NELL: Well, are you ready to go?
RONNIE: Sure, let's take off.
NELL: What are you doing, Ronnie?
RONNIE: Come on, let me get some of those big bazoombas.
NELL: Ronnie, no.
RONNIE: Goddamn it, are we ever gonna do You know we talked about this.
NELL: You know we talked about this.
RONNIE: We did, it's just, well, I'm tired of just doing what we do. I'm ready for something bigger. Like sex or just maybe using a finger on you
NELL: Ronnie, you know I'm saving myself for marriage. I thought you were okay with that.
RONNIE: Well, I used to be, it's just. I don't know. What's so great about being a 27-year-old virgin?
RONNIE: Nell, I'm sorry. Don't go away like this.
NELL: I thought you loved my purity.
RONNIE: I do. I really do. I'm sorry, It's okay. I should leave anyway, it's late.
NELL: It's okay. I should leave anyway, it's late.
RONNIE: I'll stop by for breakfast See ya tomorrow.
NELL: See ya tomorrow.
RONNIE: Mom, wake up. Let's go to bed.
RONNIE: Oh shit.
RONNIE: Good to see you, brother. Looks like the old team is getting together to crack one more case.
RONNIE: I'm ready to go to war with you.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Thanks for waking me up this morning, Ronnie.
RONNIE: I've already checked the Security tapes. They didn't catch a thing. Someone must have broken in here and turned them off.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: My team just checked all the doors and there are no signs of forced entry. I've also checked out the crime scene, but we didn't see any fingerprints on the glass. The suspect was probably wearing That doesn't sound good. How did they do it?
MARK: That doesn't sound good. How did they do it?
RONNIE: Laser technology.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: My guess it was an inside job. Probably someone who has access to keys like a janitor or a security Detective Harrison, can I ask you how long you've been a detective I'm almost at the end of my first Just as I thought, a rookie.
RONNIE: Detective Harrison, can I ask you how long you've been a detective I'm almost at the end of my first Just as I thought, a rookie.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: I'm almost at the end of my first Just as I thought, a rookie.
RONNIE: Just as I thought, a rookie.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: I've been a police officer for several years.
RONNIE: Yeah, you're a rookie, okay. It's fine, you'll learn with experience. And when you do, you'll discover that rule #1 of law enforcement is that you don't ever turn on a fellow officer. Now, I know you would never actually accuse somebody on my Security Force of committing this act of lawlessness.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Whoever did this would have to had keys to the Security Room so they could shut off the camera.
RONNIE: Look, my record speaks for itself and as for Dennis, well I can certainly vouch for him. Dennis is one of the finest men I know, so just take my word, you're barking up the wrong tree. Now, let's put this little squabble behind us and get back to busting the guys that robbed this mall.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Ronnie, nobody is accusing anybody, but I would like to stick around for a while and interview some of the employees.
MARK: Okay, but all I ask is that you do it quietly, so that the hoopla is kept to a minimum.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: I understand.
RONNIE: I understand too, sir.
MARK: Ronnie, you are to leave Detective Harrison alone and let him handle the investigation.
RONNIE: No can do, Mark. When you appointed me Head of Mall Security, I swore an oath to protect this mall and aid in bringing crime to its knees.
MARK: You didn't swear an oath.
RONNIE: To myself I did.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Ronnie, on these types of investigations, it's usually not a good idea to have too many cooks in the kitchen.
RONNIE: There's only one cook. I'm a chef. A cook and chef, together, serving up justice.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: I'm gonna do this alone.
RONNIE: Hot plates of justice.
RONNIE: Come on, rookie. Let me show you the lay of the land.
RONNIE: Okay, Dennis. I've gotta hang with Detective Harrison.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: So, have you seen any suspicious people hanging around the mall? Anybody who might have been casing the stores?
SADDAMN: Nah, man. I ain't seen nothing.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Okay, well if you can think of anything, here's my card.
RONNIE: ( to Harrison ) My turn, Rookie.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: What are you doing, Ronnie?
RONNIE: Solving the whole case right before your eyes.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Ronnie, this is official police Hello, Saddamn.
RONNIE: Hello, Saddamn.
SADDAMN: What the fuck you want, Ronnie?
RONNIE: I want your ass to face the music is what I want.
SADDAMN: Don't come any further, bitch. The restraining order says 20 feet so just back the fuck up.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Ronnie, I appreciate your enthusiasm, but just let me handle Have a good day, sir.
RONNIE: So you're just gonna let him slip right through your fingers?
DETECTIVE HARRISON: I have no reason to make him a No reason? Look at him. There's every reason in the goddamn book.
RONNIE: No reason? Look at him. There's every reason in the goddamn book.
SADDAMN: Why are you saying that, man?
RONNIE: I think it's obvious, Saddamn.
SADDAMN: That's fucked up. You're racist, You're not even black.
RONNIE: You're not even black.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Ronnie, stop. We're finished here. Now if you're going to tag along, I'm gonna need you to just stay back; are we clear?
RONNIE: Sure, sorry. We're crystal.
SADDAMN: What's up, girl, you got a boyfriend? Free cell phones with a month trial and I throw in my phone number for free.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Did you let anybody borrow your No, senor.
JANITOR: No, senor.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Have you seen anything suspicious?
JANITOR: No, senor.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Okay, sir. Thank you for your Alright, I believe I can be of some assistance here.
RONNIE: Alright, I believe I can be of some assistance here.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Ronnie, we talked about this.
RONNIE: This is a special circumstance.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: What special circumstance?
RONNIE: Communication skills, watch and
RONNIE: Que pasa?
JANITOR: Long drawn out conversation in More Spanish dialogue.
RONNIE: More Spanish dialogue.
JANITOR: More Spanish dialogue.
RONNIE: ( to Harrison ) Yeah, this guy definitely did it.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: What did he say?
RONNIE: I don't know, I don't speak Spanish, but judging from his tonal inflections, it's safe to say that he's hiding something. The only question is where. Okay, Ramon, I'm giving you one chance and one chance only to come clean. Or else Detective Harrison is going to come over to your house and deport your whole family back to Mexico.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: No, I'm not.
RONNIE: Good cop, bad cop, just play Where are you hiding the jewels?
JANITOR: No se.
RONNIE: Alright, you're gonna make me be the bad guy here? Well, that's a role I'm comfortable playing. Let's just see what you're hiding.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Ronnie, that's enough.
RONNIE: Think you're pretty slick, don't you? Guess what? I'm pretty slick too.
RONNIE: Alright, you're free Wait a
RONNIE: Okay, my mistake. Sir, you're free to go. Uh, you might want to have someone clean this up which in this case is you, so, uh, chop- chop. Wouldn't want anyone to slip on this mess.
HOT CLERK: Hello, can I help you?
DETECTIVE HARRISON: I'm Detective Harrison with the Cabarrus County Police.
RONNIE: And I'm Ronnie Barnhardt, head of Mall Security.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Okay, seriously, would you back the fuck off?! I'm trying to do my job and you're fucking it up.
RONNIE: Come on, we're working here.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: I'm working!
DETECTIVE HARRISON: ( back to the Clerk ) Sorry. Hi. I'm doing a check with all the mall employees to see if anybody has any information on the robbery that took place here last night?
HOT CLERK: I'm sorry, but I haven't noticed anything out of ordinary.
SEXY WORKER: Tracy, do you think my boyfriend would like these?
DETECTIVE HARRISON: That's fine, thanks for the help.
RONNIE: You're gonna let them distract you with a little bit of panty showing. You have got a lot to learn, my friend. Who are you protecting, toots?
HOT CLERK: What are you talking about?
RONNIE: Look, I'm sure you and your little friend have made a real lifestyle for yourselves here. It's probably easy for you to blind most men with your beauty, but I'm not most men. I can see through the sexuality to the truth. Jewelry, gold, diamonds, you don't really expect me to think that a man wants that crap. I'm putting you on my list of top suspects. I don't think you did the crime, but I do think you are an accomplice.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: I'm sorry, ma'am. He's not with me. Here's my card. If you think of anything, just give me a call.
RONNIE: You should be ashamed of yourself.
RONNIE: Is that pot I smell?
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Shut up, Ronnie!
SALESMAN: It's sage.
RONNIE: Whatever, hippy. If I find you doing drugs or killing cats or whatever you devil worshippers do, I'll come back here and bust you. I swear to God.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Get the hell out, Ronnie. I'm here to ask questions about the Just forget that, we're on to something bigger here.
RONNIE: Just forget that, we're on to something bigger here.
SALESMAN ): Tell me more about this 'sage.'
RONNIE: Now, maybe I'm crazy or maybe I'm the smartest man alive, but it seems kind of convenient to me that you sell hammers like this one that could easily be used to smash a glass case in, oh say, a jewelry store.
SEARS MANAGER: Couldn't you smash the glass with You really think you're gonna talk your way out of this one?
RONNIE: You really think you're gonna talk your way out of this one?
RONNIE: You guys should have been there today. We were just solving shit left and right. I mean, that's what this job is supposed to be like. Busting loiterers and kids who steal pennies from the fountain has its rewards, but really getting in there and closing cases is where it's at. It's rewarding too because at the end of the day, you know you've done something good for the world.
BOUNCER: What are we doing here, Ronnie? I thought you said they were giving away free Chick-fil-A sandwiches.
RONNIE: Well What is your name anyway?
BOUNCER: Well, my young apprentice. I called you here today because as Head of Mall Security, I have decided that it's time to take protection to the next level. In other words, I alone cannot combat this recent crime wave. In order to help me in my personal journey, I have decided to divide up the tasks between my soldiers. So, for now on, Dennis, my right-hand man, you will be in charge of solving the case of who is robbing the mall. Little Chucky, you will be on the case of the Pervert. You are both to collect data and provide it to me. I will analyze the data, draw conclusions, and solve these crimes as well as coordinate and strategize with various law enforcement agencies.
RONNIE: Well, my young apprentice. I called you here today because as Head of Mall Security, I have decided that it's time to take protection to the next level. In other words, I alone cannot combat this recent crime wave. In order to help me in my personal journey, I have decided to divide up the tasks between my soldiers. So, for now on, Dennis, my right-hand man, you will be in charge of solving the case of who is robbing the mall. Little Chucky, you will be on the case of the Pervert. You are both to collect data and provide it to me. I will analyze the data, draw conclusions, and solve these crimes as well as coordinate and strategize with various law enforcement agencies.
BOUNCER: Since we're going to be doing a lot of the work and you're going to be solving the crimes, do we at least get paid?
RONNIE: You can't measure honor in dollars and cents.
BOUNCER: Is that your girlfriend or something, Ronnie?
RONNIE: Who me? Nah, man. Why? What do you think of her?
BOUNCER: She's not my type, but that's just Yeah, but, you don't think she's kind of hot?
RONNIE: Yeah, but, you don't think she's kind of hot?
BOUNCER: Are you blind? Give me a break. Wait, are you sure she's not your Fuck no. There's no way I'd date that. person who's obviously not
RONNIE: Fuck no. There's no way I'd date that. person who's obviously not
RONNIE: Anyway, our new unit will operate under the name, 'Special Elite Task Force.' You will answer directly to me and no one else. Now, let's all put our hands in the middle and do a unifying
BOUNCER: You're gonna hook me up with a job, right?
RONNIE: Seven even. I promise.
RONNIE: One, two, three, TASK FORCE!
RONNIE: Okay, so now I say we all take a celebratory trip to Sears because, as we all know, today is half- price day on all automotive parts for mall employees.
BRANDI: Sorry to interrupt.
RONNIE: It's no interruption. What are you still doing here?
BRANDI: I had to do inventory tonight. Bruce took off early so I'm the last one. Hey, I was wondering if you would mind walking me to my car. You know, just in case that freak with the dick is out there It would be my honor.
RONNIE: It would be my honor.
BRANDI: Alright, thanks for the ride.
RONNIE: Just doing my job with a little something extra especially for See ya tomorrow.
BRANDI: See ya tomorrow.
RONNIE: Brandi, um. I was just thinking, would you like to go to dinner this weekend?
BRANDI: How come every time somebody does something nice for me, they act like I owe them a blow job?
RONNIE: Look, it's not like that. I've got a girlfriend. who doesn't work in this mall.
BRANDI: Ronnie, I got to be honest with you, you're not really my type.
RONNIE: Just out of curiosity, what is your type?
BRANDI: Rich guys. Or guys who are really Yeah, I guess that's not me.
RONNIE: Yeah, I guess that's not me.
BRANDI: I'll go out to dinner with you on one condition.
RONNIE: What's that?
BRANDI: This is not a date. Do you understand? We're going to dinner, but we are not going on a And you can never tell anybody we went out.
RONNIE: And you can never tell anybody we went out.
BRANDI: And you can never tell anybody we went out.
RONNIE: My lips are sealed.
BRANDI: You pay for dinner, right? And as many drinks as I want.
RONNIE: You may drink your fill.
BRANDI: And you have to drive me to my car every night after work for the next six months.
RONNIE: You got it.
BRANDI: And my car is low on gas, so I need some money to fill it up.
RONNIE: Is $20 enough?
BRANDI: Nah, fifty.
BRANDI: Okay, you can pick me up after work on Saturday. Dinner and that's it. Don't try to kiss me because I'll smack the shit out of you. It's not a date.
RONNIE: Got it. Not a date.
BRANDI: Thanks for the ride.
RONNIE: Hey, Brandi.
BRANDI: I lied. It is a date.
RONNIE: I lied. It is a date.
STEVIE: Our suspension is over.
RONNIE: I'm not here for that. I need to talk to you.
BODYGUARD: Anything you want to say to Stevie, you can say to me, Who the fuck are you?
RONNIE: Who the fuck are you?
STEVIE: This is my cousin, Roy. He's a You got a fuckin' problem, bitch?!
BODYGUARD: You got a fuckin' problem, bitch?!
BODYGUARD: My eyes!
STEVIE: Jesus, Ronnie, what the fuck are you doing?
RONNIE: I need a favor.
STEVIE: I'm listening.
RONNIE: As you know, we've had a lot of crime around here lately. Between the Flasher and all the break-ins, I've decided to go to the streets. Frankly, I'm looking for a stool pigeon and you're just the right Why would I want to help you?
STEVIE: Why would I want to help you?
RONNIE: I could make it worth your while. You like skating at the mall. I could allow you to skate here whenever you wanted. In exchange, you keep your eyes peeled and provide me with any information you come across as to the identity of the perpetrators.
STEVIE: Sorry, dude, but I'm no snitch. Go find somebody else to do your dirty work.
RONNIE: Well, let me put it another way. If you don't help me, I'm gonna spread your little butt cheeks and stick this flashlight up your ass. But like for real. Like I really will do that. This is the new me talking and I get what I need, you understand me, Stevie?
STEVIE: Alright, dude, I understand, you sick fuck.
RONNIE: Cool. In that case, have fun
STEVIE: Stop crying, Roy.
NELL: Hey, sweetie Oh, I'm sorry, good morning, Officer Barnhardt.
RONNIE: Good morning, Nell.
NELL: Where were you last night? I tried to call, but your mom said you weren't home from work yet.
RONNIE: Look, I got to talk to you about something. I'm not really sure how to put this. Let's see. If you drove a Toyota.
NELL: I drive a Ford.
RONNIE: I know, but let's just pretend you drove a Toyota. Now, this Toyota runs really good. It always starts when you need it to and it gets good gas mileage and you don't have to do much to maintain it. Then you get a really important job like Astronaut, no that won't work, you get a job as the head of Wall Street. Well, you may really like that Toyota, but you're going to feel weird about driving it to work every day, right? Now let's say that somebody offers you a chance to get rid of that Toyota and instead you get a Ferrari. It may be more expensive and harder to drive, but I mean, it just looks good as hell. What would you do?
NELL: I don't get it.
RONNIE: You would trade up, Nell. Well, that's exactly what I'm doing.
NELL: Are you thinking about getting a new car?
RONNIE: No, Nell, I'm getting a new What?! Who?
NELL: What?! Who?
RONNIE: This girl, Brandi.
NELL: The slutty girl who works at the make-up counter?
RONNIE: Yeah, I mean, no, she's not a slut. But you're thinking of the right person.
NELL: How could you do this to me?
RONNIE: I'm sorry. I don't mean to hurt you. It's just, well, I believe in this world, you play the hand you're dealt and at this point in my life, I've been dealt five Aces. I'd be a fool not to bet.
NELL: Why are you doing this, Ronnie?
RONNIE: I have to, Nell.
NELL: Don't you love me?
RONNIE: Of course I love you.
NELL: Then tell me why?
RONNIE: Because I've never dated the prom queen before.
NELL: Remember when you started this job? You weren't such a hotshot then. I've stood by you when you were at your worst. Every time you fell, I held your hand and told you everything would be okay. Time and time again.
RONNIE: Come on. Why do you have to bring that up?
NELL: I never cared about who you wanted to be, I fell in love with who you really are. If you leave me, Ronnie, I won't be there to pick you up when you fall.
RONNIE: Even if I do fall, it won't matter, because I'm learning to
SLICK SALESMAN: Can I help you, sir?
RONNIE: Yeah, um, I've got a really special date tonight with a hot young lady Do you know Brandi?
SLICK SALESMAN: Never mind. Anyway, I need something that's really 'cool.' Something that will impress her and I guess you could say I'm not exactly in the know with what the hipsters are up to these days.
RONNIE: Never mind. Anyway, I need something that's really 'cool.' Something that will impress her and I guess you could say I'm not exactly in the know with what the hipsters are up to these days.
SLICK SALESMAN: Let's see. Are you looking to fall in love or are you looking to get laid?
RONNIE: Um, I guess love, but uh.
SLICK SALESMAN: You want to get laid, too?
RONNIE: Watch it, man. She's a lady. But Alright, I got just the thing. Something classy is what you want. Show her you're a man with taste.
SLICK SALESMAN: Alright, I got just the thing. Something classy is what you want. Show her you're a man with taste.
MOM: Come on, Ronnie, just get out It's too tight in the butt.
RONNIE: It's too tight in the butt.
MOM: Let me see.
MOM: Ronnie, you look so handsome!
RONNIE: Really, you don't think I look like a phony.
MOM: Hell no. You look like a stud Yeah, I guess these clothes are kind of cool.
RONNIE: Yeah, I guess these clothes are kind of cool.
MOM: Nell is a lucky girl.
RONNIE: Its not Nell, Mom.
MOM: Really, I thought you and Nell were going to get married some I did too. But then I met this girl Brandi and she swept me off my feet.
RONNIE: I did too. But then I met this girl Brandi and she swept me off my feet.
MOM: Well, I always liked Nell, but as long as you're happy, Ronnie, that's all I care about.
RONNIE: I actually feel kind of bad about Nell, but I figure that I can pour all the sadness into Brandi and just really rely on her for my happiness instead of Nell.
MOM: That sounds wonderful. Is she She is, Mom. She's the most perfect girl in the whole world.
RONNIE: She is, Mom. She's the most perfect girl in the whole world.
MOM: I remember when your father picked me up for our first date. I swear he was the most handsome man that I had ever laid eyes on. I knew right then and there that this would be the man that I married.
RONNIE: I hope that happens tonight.
MOM: It will, Ronnie. Then you'll have to give her a ring like the one your father gave me.
RONNIE: Is that a yellow diamond?
MOM: It's a glass diamond. This is how it looks now.
RONNIE: Mom, why did Dad leave?
MOM: Well, he kind of freaked out when you were born. You had so many special needs that he just couldn't handle the pressure. One day, he just couldn't take it Do you think it was my fault that Dad left?
RONNIE: Do you think it was my fault that Dad left?
MOM: Definitely. You don't think it was mine do you?
RONNIE: Well, I didn't know, with the drinking and all.
MOM: Nope, it was all you.
MOM: I love you, Ronnie.
RONNIE: I love you, too, Mom.
RONNIE: Damn, that was pretty impressive.
BRANDI: Yeah, work's been pissing me off, so I just need to blow off some Well, Brandi, can I just say that you look absolutely beautiful Yeah, I know. Nurse! Get me another You got this, right?
RONNIE: Well, Brandi, can I just say that you look absolutely beautiful Yeah, I know. Nurse! Get me another You got this, right?
BRANDI: Yeah, I know. Nurse! Get me another You got this, right?
RONNIE: Yeah, yeah. No problem.
BRANDI: Nurse! Bring me another and keep 'em coming. I think it's funny to call the waitress nurse.
BRANDI: Hey, what's that?
RONNIE: Oh, it's nothing.
BRANDI: Don't be stingy, what the fuck is It's just a pill I'm supposed to Let me see.
RONNIE: It's just a pill I'm supposed to Let me see.
BRANDI: Let me see.
BRANDI: Where the fuck did you find these?
RONNIE: The Doctor.
BRANDI: Damn, Ronnie, Klonopin. I'm impressed. This is the good shit. I didn't know you partied like Yeah, I guess I party like this every four to six hours as needed.
RONNIE: Yeah, I guess I party like this every four to six hours as needed.
BRANDI: Let me get one.
RONNIE: Help yourself.
BRANDI: Hell yeah!
RONNIE: So, how do you like working at the I hate that shit. All I do is listen to bitching all day long. I got to put makeup on these fat- ass women all day and it's like, I don't give a shit what you do, you can't polish a turd.
BRANDI: I hate that shit. All I do is listen to bitching all day long. I got to put makeup on these fat- ass women all day and it's like, I don't give a shit what you do, you can't polish a turd.
RONNIE: Yeah, I see how that could get to Let's do some shots. Waiter, four shots of Jager!
BRANDI: Let's do some shots. Waiter, four shots of Jager!
RONNIE: That's a lot.
BRANDI: It's Friday.
RONNIE: So, Brandi, I hope I'm not being too forward, but do you have a I've got a few hook-ups but nobody who is a boyfriend.
BRANDI: I've got a few hook-ups but nobody who is a boyfriend.
RONNIE: You know, it's just like a time in my life where I want to be free right now and think about myself. Not get tied down to one person.
BRANDI: You know, it's just like a time in my life where I want to be free right now and think about myself. Not get tied down to one person.
RONNIE: Yeah, I understand. I hate ties. I recently cut mine and now I'm free like a bird.
BRANDI: Alright, bottoms up.
RONNIE: To new beginnings.
BRANDI: Right up your ass!
RONNIE: Ronnie takes his shot.
BRANDI: Oh, shit!
RONNIE: No more. I'm sticking to beer.
BRANDI: What's wrong, is your pussy God, you remind me so much of my
RONNIE: God, you remind me so much of my
BRANDI: Feel the burn, bitch!
RONNIE: You are so beautiful.
BRANDI: Who wants to see my titties?!
RONNIE: Brandi, this is the most fun I've ever had on a date.
BRANDI: For the last time, this ain't a date, motherfucker! This is a Wooo! Um, so, Brandi, it's no secret that I'm attracted to you. I think everybody in the mall is. As you know, I recently split with my girlfriend and basically, I was wondering if, since you don't have a boyfriend, that I could maybe be your boyfriend and you could be my That's my house!
RONNIE: Wooo! Um, so, Brandi, it's no secret that I'm attracted to you. I think everybody in the mall is. As you know, I recently split with my girlfriend and basically, I was wondering if, since you don't have a boyfriend, that I could maybe be your boyfriend and you could be my That's my house!
BRANDI: That's my house!
RONNIE: Brandi, I had a wonderful time I'm so fucking shit-faced.
BRANDI: I'm so fucking shit-faced.
RONNIE: Are you okay?
BRANDI: My breath smells like asshole.
RONNIE: I love you, Brandi.
BRANDI: I think I've got puke in my teeth.
RONNIE: I don't care.
RONNIE: Don't look at me like that, Dennis. I told you I wouldn't I'm serious, Dennis. A gentleman never kisses and tells. So, just stop with all the pressure because it's just not gonna happen.
RONNIE: I'm serious, Dennis. A gentleman never kisses and tells. So, just stop with all the pressure because it's just not gonna happen.
RONNIE: Okay, fine, you son of a bitch, you want details, I'll give you details. I had sex with Brandi last night.
RONNIE: It was amazing. I mean, I've never experienced anything like it. I've been with a girl or two.
RONNIE: Okay, fine, I've been with a girl, but let me tell you, this was so much better. You know how many times we did it? Twice! BAM!
BAM! BAM!: OVER AT THE CINNABON STAND Nell, who looks like she's been crying nonstop, stuffs a whole Cinnabon into her face. As it fills her cheeks, she looks over to Ronnie's table and sees Ronnie making thrusting motions at the table. Nell swallows, stuffs another Cinnabon in, then storms out of the Food Court.
RONNIE: But I got to tell you, Dennis. It was steamy and sexy, but more than anything, I should tell you that it's her soul that I fell for the most. She got pretty tanked, but I could just really tell that she's a good person. The kind of person that I could see myself Look, I'm gonna get out of here. There's a lot of people I need to tell about this, so I'll catch up with you later. Oh, and I almost forgot, keep your eyes peeled for crime and stuff.
NELL: Excuse me.
BRANDI: How may I help you?
NELL: I need to talk to you.
BRANDI: What is it, honey? Let me guess. You're looking for something to take care of those blackheads and hide that puffiness under your eyes. I've got just the thing.
NELL: No, that's not it. Well, how much is it?
BRANDI: Fifty dollars for the bottle.
NELL: Okay, I'll take it.
NELL: Listen, I know you're Ronnie's new What the hell are you talking It's okay. I know he left me to be with you and I accept that.
BRANDI: What the hell are you talking It's okay. I know he left me to be with you and I accept that.
NELL: It's okay. I know he left me to be with you and I accept that.
BRANDI: I don't know who you've been talking to, but it's safe to say that you're fucking trippin'.
NELL: It's fine really. It's going to take a while for me to get over it, but I'll be okay.
BRANDI: Oh fuckin' Lord. This is I'm sorry.
NELL: I'm sorry.
BRANDI: Pull it together. This is how you run around all the time? Have some self-respect. No wonder your man left you. Who the hell would want to be around this shit all
NELL: Jesus teaches us to forgive. And I forgive you for what you did to me when you stole my boyfriend. Plus, I feel pretty confident that you'll end up burning in hell because of the various evil ways you live your life and that brings me some satisfaction. But I just want to tell you that Ronnie is a good person. He does a lot of stupid stuff, but really, he wants to do good for the world. I want you to know that if you hurt him and ruin his heart, I will personally come down here and kick the ever living shit out of you.
BRANDI: You better fuckin' run, bitch!
BRANDI: I'm just kidding.
NELL: It's not too late to change your Okay. Thanks.
BRUCE: Okay. Thanks.
FLOWER SALESMAN: Ronnie, I've been expecting you.
RONNIE: You have?
FLOWER SALESMAN: Oh yeah, I heard about last night. Brandi is quite the woman. Congratulations, my friend. Or should I say, welcome to the club?
RONNIE: What color of roses do the women like anyway?
FLOWER SALESMAN: Well, it depends on what you are trying to say. The white roses symbolize innocence and purity.
RONNIE: Yeah, we're way past the color white if you know what I mean. What about the yellow ones?
FLOWER SALESMAN: Joy, happiness, appreciation.
RONNIE: I don't even know what to make of The pink rose means thank you.
FLOWER SALESMAN: The pink rose means thank you.
RONNIE: FLOWER SALESMAN
FLOWER SALESMAN: The red rose is the most powerful. It symbolizes love.
RONNIE: Why didn't you just say that? I'm a busy man here.
FLOWER SALESMAN: I'm sorry.
RONNIE: Forget it. Give me a big bag of the red ones.
FLOWER SALESMAN: Um, can I ask a question?
RONNIE: Go ahead.
FLOWER SALESMAN: Do you really like Brandi?
RONNIE: I've only been on one date with her, but I could see myself being with her for all of eternity.
FLOWER SALESMAN: Well, in that case, the greatest symbol of love is just a single red rose.
RONNIE: Seems like a big bag of roses would be more love than just one, but I guess you're the expert. Gimme one.
RONNIE: What are you doing here?
BRANDI: What are you doing here?
RONNIE: I came here to see you. And to present you with this single red rose. It symbolizes 'love.'
BRANDI: Ronnie, that's really. uncalled Well, after last night, I just wanted you to know that it wasn't just some fling to me. It meant something special and I felt it deep in my soul.
RONNIE: Well, after last night, I just wanted you to know that it wasn't just some fling to me. It meant something special and I felt it deep in my soul.
BRUCE: You fucked the Security Guard?
BRANDI: Oh, like you've never been drunk,
BRANDI: Ronnie, look. I got to be honest with you. I barely remember last I remember it for the both of us.
RONNIE: I remember it for the both of us.
BRANDI: Okay, see here's the thing. I don't know how to say this, so I'm just gonna come on out with it. Ronnie, I could never date you seriously. I mean, you're a security guard.
RONNIE: I'm the head of Mall Security.
BRANDI: Exactly. The point is, I don't really see myself being with that. Like ever. You know what I mean?
RONNIE: Brandi, I know exactly what you mean. And I just want to thank you for being honest. You're telling me I'm not living up to my full potential in life. It's funny, because I've been feeling like this for quite some time. I guess I just needed that extra little push to get me over this hurdle I've been stuck on. How can you be with a man who isn't living the life he was meant to?
BRANDI: Yeah, something like that. And just you know, you're a security guard at the mall and it's like, come on, you know?
RONNIE: I don't like it, Brandi, but I do understand. I promise you this. Next time you see me, I will be wearing a uniform that will make you proud. I will be the man that you will be honored to call your life's love.
BRANDI: Don't bet on it.
RONNIE: I will though. I'll bet everything I have on you. Now I ask you for one favor. Although I am unworthy, will you accept this rose from me anyway?
BRANDI: I can't do that. And tell your girlfriend to stop coming by my work and threatening me and shit.
RONNIE: I'm here to become a police We're always on the hunt for new recruits. Do you have at least a high school diploma?
POLICEMAN: We're always on the hunt for new recruits. Do you have at least a high school diploma?
RONNIE: I have a GED.
POLICEMAN: We usually prefer an actual diploma, but GED is technically acceptable. Are you a citizen of the United States?
RONNIE: You bet your ass I am.
POLICEMAN: Okay, Mr. Barnhardt, there are several steps you have to complete in order to be eligible for the police academy. Physical evaluation, psychological test, background check.
RONNIE: That sounds fun. Sign me up.
RONNIE: It's like it was meant to be. You behind the wheel. Me riding shotgun. Two brothers of the badge unite to form the ultimate crime-stopping combo. I'm psyched to be here, Harrison. Thank you for the opportunity.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: You requested to ride along with me.
RONNIE: I know. You want to know the truth. It's because I respect you. See, when we're at the mall, it's obviously my turf. Sure, I break your balls about being a rookie, but out here in the streets, I'm the rookie. I'm here to learn. Teach me.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Why do you want to become a Cop?
RONNIE: I've wanted to be a Police officer all my life.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Well, just pay attention tonight and make sure you stay out of the Right, we're not back at the station anymore so we can cut the What are you talking about?
RONNIE: Right, we're not back at the station anymore so we can cut the What are you talking about?
DETECTIVE HARRISON: What are you talking about?
RONNIE: Well, I know that policy demands I stay out of the way, but between you and me, I just want you to know that if anything pops off tonight, I'm going to jump right in there and take 'em down with No, no. Ronnie, policy says you have to stay in the car.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: No, no. Ronnie, policy says you have to stay in the car.
RONNIE: I get you. You have to say this in order to keep you safe 'legally' speaking. I should probably follow along too. 'I swear I won't get out of the car and fight justice tonight.'
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Ronnie, you really can't.
RONNIE: I know.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: I'm glad we understand each other.
RONNIE: Yeah, so then I basically saw his ass trying to circumvent around the ped exit and slip through the employ exit. Not allowed. The two ped exits are to be used You see that corner there, Ronnie?
DETECTIVE HARRISON: You see that corner there, Ronnie?
RONNIE: Yeah, I see it.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: That corner used to be the worst corner in this whole town. It was riddled with drugs, prostitution, and gang violence. It was nicknamed 'The Crossroads.'
RONNIE: Shit, I've heard of that.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: That's right, but myself and the other officers worked on cleaning it up for years so that the good folks of this neighborhood wouldn't have to worry about being safe. Yes, sir, that corner is a testament to the fine police work of our force.
RONNIE: I don't know. It looks pretty shitty to me.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Well, it's a low income area, Ronnie. You're being kind of Oh, yeah, I can see that it's basically a fine neighborhood.
RONNIE: Oh, yeah, I can see that it's basically a fine neighborhood.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: That's right, but it hasn't been easy. We still patrol this area every night just to keep our presence up.
RONNIE: I use that same technique at the I'm sure. I usually do the foot patrols myself, but because I like you, I'm going to let you do it Yeah, really. But I told you about department policy, so I'm going to need you to keep quiet about this one.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: I'm sure. I usually do the foot patrols myself, but because I like you, I'm going to let you do it Yeah, really. But I told you about department policy, so I'm going to need you to keep quiet about this one.
RONNIE: DETECTIVE HARRISON
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Yeah, really. But I told you about department policy, so I'm going to need you to keep quiet about this one.
RONNIE: You can count on me. Thank you for the honor.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Of course, Ronnie. I just really believe in you.
RONNIE: I won't let you down.
RONNIE: Where are you going?!
RONNIE: Hey, no horse play. You guys get on home.
KID: You want some crack?
RONNIE: No, I don't want any crack. In fact, I didn't want to do this, but you leave me no choice in the matter. I'm placing you under citizen's arrest.
KID: Let me go, motherfucker!
RONNIE: I place you under citizen's arrest for the crime of selling a Schedule 1 Narcotic. You have the right to remain silent.
RONNIE: . If you cannot afford an attorney, one will be appointed to you. Now I guess we just wait here for my ride to come back.
RONNIE: Who, this little guy right here?
RONNIE: Well, I hate to be the one to tell you this, but it appears that your little brother has tried to sell me illegal drugs. I know it's hard for you to hear that.
RONNIE: Is that so? Well then, it looks like you got one less employee because I'm taking little brother down. I'll die right here before I let crime prevail.
RONNIE: ( to the little Kid ) Free to go, little brother. My mistake completely. Good luck with the crack.
RONNIE: Alright, so I guess I'll be seeing you folks.
RONNIE: Oh, no. That's really not necessary, Tone.
RONNIE: Oh, Jesus, I don't want to die. Don't let me die, don't do it!
RONNIE: No, please! I'm sorry!
COP #1: I can't believe you dropped him off at the Crossroads. That's fucking hilarious.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Trust me, you would have done the same thing. This guy is without a doubt the biggest fucking idiot I have ever met.
COP #1: He's probably going to get killed.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Good! Fuck him, I hope he does get killed.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Ronnie, what are you doing here?
RONNIE: I know what you did!
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Ronnie, look, I didn't do anything
RONNIE: You're not going to talk your way out of this one. You set me up!
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Ronnie, look
RONNIE: Don't try to deny it! You set me up and that's all there is to it.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Ronnie, I
RONNIE: And I just want to thank you for Thank me? Why?
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Thank me? Why?
RONNIE: Because I'm proud to report that I passed the test. I know you wanted to see if I had the chops to cut it on the police force and I'm glad to say that I passed. I knew I would get initiated some time, but I didn't think it would be so soon. Thank you, Detective Harrison. Thank you for believing in me.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Ronnie, I don't know what to say.
RONNIE: You don't have to say anything. Your actions speak for themselves. Thank you for giving this rookie a shot. Get used to seeing Ronnie Barnhardt around here, boys.
DAY: SPRINT: The TESTING OFFICER blows a whistle and starts the 100 meter dash. Ronnie jumps off the starting line and hauls ass down the track. The other Trainees fall behind Ronnie as he smokes their asses.
MARK: Come in.
RONNIE: Good morning, Mark.
MARK: Is it, Ronnie? I mean, the mall is getting butchered in the press. Somebody who works here is ripping the place off. The cops don't have any leads. I'm getting shit from the owner of the mall. Sales are down. I mean, what's so good about this morning?
RONNIE: I feel your pain, Mark. Quite frankly, there's two things happening. One, I'm lacking a sufficient firearm. And two, we're understaffed. That's why I come to you this morning with a Come on in, Charles.
MARK: Who is this?
RONNIE: This is Charles, sir.
CHARLES: ( BOUNCER ) How's it going?
MARK: You work at O'Charley's, right.
CHARLES: That's right.
RONNIE: Mark, I would like to hire Charles here as an additional Security Guard. He would operate under me. I figure with the additional criminal element, we should hire more security in hopes that we would have a better chance of catching these guys.
MARK: Do you have any experience, son?
CHARLES: Not really.
RONNIE: Um, sir, I have personally been training young Charles for weeks now in preparation for this day. The kid kind of looks up to me. I'm some what of a big brother to the little guy.
MARK: Alright, it's actually not a bad idea. It might make our Security more visible so we can give people the illusion that we're on top of
CHARLES: Thank you, Mark.
MARK: Ronnie, one more thing. Look, if this crime doesn't come to an end pretty soon, we're gonna have to let someone go. I mean, you've always done a great job for me, but the truth is, someone is going to have to take the fall. You're the one who wanted to be Head of Mall Security and quite frankly, I just bought my wife a new Cadillac, so let's just say it won't be me.
RONNIE: With Charles on my team, I can now devote more time to the robbery and Pervert case. I plan on having these wrapped up by the end of the week.
RONNIE: Why'd you just laugh?
MARK: It's nothing. Have fun, Ronnie.
RONNIE: Did I say something funny?
CHARLES: Let's go, Ronnie.
CHARLES: Be careful, guys. Nice and slow.
RONNIE: That's not bad, but you need to learn to speak in a more authoritative voice. Watch this. Slow it down! Slow it down! You've already received one verbal, don't make me issue a See, you can't be intimidated. You have to make them respect you.
CHARLES: Ronnie, you know I really want to thank you for the job. You're a man of your word.
RONNIE: No problem, my young student. So, I got something to tell you. Keep this between us until it's official, but I don't think I'm going to be here for much longer.
CHARLES: You're quitting? But you love this job.
RONNIE: I do love it, but it looks like someone is going to be joining the police force.
CHARLES: The real police?
RONNIE: They're calling me up. It's basically a done deal. Just a little red tape is the only thing keeping me from carrying a gun.
CHARLES: I didn't even know you wanted to become a Cop.
RONNIE: It's always been my job. The Mall thing is great training, but it has its limitations. Some stars are just meant to shine brighter than others.
CHARLES: Congrats, brother.
RONNIE: ( to a mall walker )
RONNIE: Hey, Ronnie.
NELL: Hey, Ronnie.
RONNIE: What are you doing?
NELL: Nothing, just getting in shape.
RONNIE: Well, that's okay, I guess. Just watch your speed, okay?
CHARLES: Isn't that your girlfriend?
RONNIE: She looked good.
CHARLES: She looked good.
RONNIE: You think so?
CHARLES: She looks a lot better.
RONNIE: Ronnie shrugs it off.
PSYCHOLOGIST: Okay, Ronnie, today I'll be giving you a psychiatric evaluation to determine if you're competent to enter into the Police Academy. It's really just a formality. Don't want any serial killers working for us, now do we?
RONNIE: No, ma'am, we don't.
PSYCHOLOGIST: Okay, Ronnie, so let's start with your background. Where are you Born and raised right here.
RONNIE: Born and raised right here.
PSYCHOLOGIST: Local boy. Okay, and, Ronnie, have you ever been convicted of any crimes?
RONNIE: No, ma'am. My record is totally Do you now take any illegal drugs or have you taken any in the past?
PSYCHOLOGIST: Do you now take any illegal drugs or have you taken any in the past?
RONNIE: No, ma'am. I believe drugs are the path to self-destruction and should be purged from the face of the earth with ruthless vengeance.
PSYCHOLOGIST: Any prescription medications?
RONNIE: Yes, for my nerves. A man in my line of work has a lot of stress to deal with. If you've seen the bloodshed I've seen, you'd be on the meds too. I Where are you going with this?
PSYCHOLOGIST: Are you presently or have you ever been affiliated with the Communist I can't believe you'd even ask me Have you ever been in the What branch of the military were you in?
RONNIE: I can't believe you'd even ask me Have you ever been in the What branch of the military were you in?
PSYCHOLOGIST: Have you ever been in the What branch of the military were you in?
RONNIE: What branch of the military were you in?
PSYCHOLOGIST: What branch of the military were you in?
RONNIE: The kind of branch that doesn't exist on paper.
PSYCHOLOGIST: Okay, here's a real world scenario. You have a gun
RONNIE: That wasn't really the question, never mind, I think I got that one. Um. here's one. Do you feel like you would work well on a Would I? Yes. Would I be more useful working alone, I would say definitely. I see myself more like a Rambo kind of guy. A man who rolls solo. Taking care of business on his own terms. Kind of like a Superhero or something.
PSYCHOLOGIST: That wasn't really the question, never mind, I think I got that one. Um. here's one. Do you feel like you would work well on a Would I? Yes. Would I be more useful working alone, I would say definitely. I see myself more like a Rambo kind of guy. A man who rolls solo. Taking care of business on his own terms. Kind of like a Superhero or something.
RONNIE: Would I? Yes. Would I be more useful working alone, I would say definitely. I see myself more like a Rambo kind of guy. A man who rolls solo. Taking care of business on his own terms. Kind of like a Superhero or something.
PSYCHOLOGIST: Why do you want to become a cop?
RONNIE: I want to become a cop to help people. The world is a scary place with lots of evil everywhere. See, I have this vision of evil trying to get at the world from every angle and there I stand at the top of it all with my gun, just kind of blowing it away. Just me and my weapons, cleaning up this whole town. I know I could do some good if I was just given a chance and everybody would be a lot better off.
PSYCHOLOGIST: Uh-huh. So, what do you feel is the greatest danger facing a police officer today?
RONNIE: Maybe Russian gang activity, but you know what? I think I'm gonna have to go with evil on that one Okay, I think we're good here. It's been a pleasure, Ronnie.
PSYCHOLOGIST: Okay, I think we're good here. It's been a pleasure, Ronnie.
RONNIE: Thank you, ma'am.
RONNIE: I'm telling you, Mom, this police thing could be good for both of us. Not just the fact that I'll be making the streets safer for you, but they have health insurance and a pension plan so I don't have to worry about your medical bills as much.
MOM: I don't care about that bullshit. All I need is a little nip of this good shit right here and I'm ready to walk through the pearly gates.
RONNIE: Mom, I know, but maybe you should stop drinking so much. You're getting up there and you know what the doctor said about your liver.
MOM: I don't tell you how to party, don't tell me how to live my life. I've taken care of you since you were born.
RONNIE: I just worry about you is all.
MOM: Ronnie, don't get your hopes up about this police thing.
RONNIE: Why would you say that?
MOM: You know why. I just don't want to see you get hurt. It's my job to protect you from the bullshit.
RONNIE: Mom, I appreciate it, but I'm going to make it as a police officer. I'm tired of coming in second all the time. Everybody in life gets to go for their goals, why should I be any different?
MOM: I know. Just be careful is all. You've got a good heart and I don't want to see it broken.
RONNIE: Okay, Mom. I hear you.
MOM: And, Ronnie, one more thing.
RONNIE: What's that, Mom?
RONNIE: Mom! That's gross!
MOM: ( drunk laughing ) That's right! Now you got to smell it!
RONNIE: EXT. POLICE ACADEMY - DAY The Police Academy is full of energy as new recruits pour up the steps and into the building, eager to start their Ronnie comes walking up and takes a long look at the building. Ronnie smiles to himself and heads up the Ronnie reaches the top where Detective Harrison is waiting. Ronnie stops.
RONNIE: Ronnie Barnhardt reporting for I can see that. Listen, I don't really know how to say this, but we're not going to be able to let you join the academy.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: I can see that. Listen, I don't really know how to say this, but we're not going to be able to let you join the academy.
RONNIE: What?! Why not?
DETECTIVE HARRISON: It seems you had a little trouble passing the minimum requirements.
RONNIE: Did I fail one of the tests?
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Well, yes, actually, you failed the psychological exam.
RONNIE: DETECTIVE HARRISON ( reads from the form )
DETECTIVE HARRISON: It says. That Ronnie Barnhardt shows warning signs of delusion and allowing him to join the force puts his life and the lives of others in jeopardy.
RONNIE: Detective Harrison, you've got to believe me. I'm completely sound. This has got to be a mistake.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Ronnie, I personally did your background check and this is the fifth time you've been turned down for the police academy.
RONNIE: You guys keep records on that?
DETECTIVE HARRISON: We sure do. Look, I tried to talk to them, but there's no way they're gonna let you in. I'm sorry, but your dreams of becoming a Police Officer just aren't going to happen.
RONNIE: I understand. Thanks for believing in me, Detective. And just for the record, I'm not Take care, Ronnie.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Take care, Ronnie.
RONNIE: Hey, Nell.
NELL: Hey, Ronnie. How's it going?
RONNIE: Can I talk to you for a second?
NELL: What is it?
RONNIE: I tried to get into the police academy again and the same thing Oh, Ronnie, I'm sorry.
NELL: Oh, Ronnie, I'm sorry.
RONNIE: Why does this keep happening to me, Nell?
NELL: I don't know, Ronnie. Maybe it's just not meant to be. Are you No. Are you going home? I mean, do you want to go somewhere and talk or something?
RONNIE: No. Are you going home? I mean, do you want to go somewhere and talk or something?
NELL: Ronnie, I can't.
RONNIE: Why not?
NELL: I've got plans.
RONNIE: What plans?
SADDAMN: Look at this sorry piece of shit.
RONNIE: What the fuck do you want?
SADDAMN: I don't want anything from you. How you doing, sweetness?
SADDAMN: You look beautiful tonight.
RONNIE: What the fuck is going on?
SADDAMN: You ready to go? We got reservations at 9:00.
NELL: I'm ready, Saddamn.
RONNIE: Nell, for the love of God, don't go with him.
NELL: I'm sorry, Ronnie.
RONNIE: Don't go, Nell. Remember your purity! Remember your purity!
STEVIE: What are you doing, Ronnie?
RONNIE: I'm just taking a break. What do you want, Stevie? I don't have time to fuck around with you I got something.
STEVIE: I got something.
RONNIE: What the fuck is this?
DUDE: Dude, I found these all over the mall. I'm guessing that whoever this Mall Flasher is, left these for girls to find.
RONNIE: This thing gets grosser and grosser all the time. Well, thanks for the clue. Maybe I can use this to identify the freak. You can skate all you want around What's wrong with you, Ronnie?
STEVIE: What's wrong with you, Ronnie?
RONNIE: What do you mean?
STEVIE: I don't know. You just seem kind of sad.
RONNIE: Nah, man, I'm fine. I mean, I'm catchin' perverts and protecting this mall and just you know, really livin' the dream.
STEVIE: That's cool. Look, man, you want to get high?
RONNIE: No, I don't want to get high.
STEVIE: That's cool.
RONNIE: And by the way, if I see you getting high, I will call the police and have your criminal ass arrested. Don't you fuckin' ever mistake my kindness for weakness. I hate drugs and I hate you too.
STEVIE: Fine, you fucking dick.
BRANDI: DETECTIVE HARRISON
DETECTIVE HARRISON: What is it?
BRANDI: I thought I heard something.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: It's nothing.
RONNIE: Ronnie beats the shit out of Harrison's car. He smashes headlights, mirrors and fenders.
HARRISON!!!: Ronnie beats the shit out of Harrison's car. He smashes headlights, mirrors and fenders.
BRANDI: DETECTIVE HARRISON
DETECTIVE HARRISON: That motherfucker is crazy.
BRANDI: Well, you're the fucking cop. Do You're right. Okay, here it goes.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: You're right. Okay, here it goes.
BRANDI: What the fuck are you doing?!
OUTSIDE: Ronnie sees Brandi and stops pummeling the car.
BRANDI: Ronnie, it's me! Don't do anything crazy.
RONNIE: Get back inside, Brandi. This isn't about you. you. you Fuck off, Ronnie.
BRANDI: Fuck off, Ronnie.
RONNIE: How can you just stand there after you ruined my life and act like nothing happened?!
BRANDI: It's easy 'cause I don't give a
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Drop the flashlight, Ronnie.
RONNIE: You're pretty tough with that gun.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Ronnie, I know you've had a hard You were supposed to be my friend!
RONNIE: You were supposed to be my friend!
DETECTIVE HARRISON: So you're gonna kill Brandi?
RONNIE: I was just trying to scare her.
BRANDI: You don't scare me, you piece of
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Fine, fuck you! Fuck all of you! And, Harrison, you better be glad you have a gun or I'd kick your ass too. And you know what? I'm taking my friendship back because you don't deserve it! And, Brandi, I'm taking my love back too. I'm gonna leave now and you two can just have fun. Have fun sleeping tonight because something tells me, you won't be able to.
RONNIE: Fine, fuck you! Fuck all of you! And, Harrison, you better be glad you have a gun or I'd kick your ass too. And you know what? I'm taking my friendship back because you don't deserve it! And, Brandi, I'm taking my love back too. I'm gonna leave now and you two can just have fun. Have fun sleeping tonight because something tells me, you won't be able to.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: That guy is a nut job.
BRANDI: Tell me about it.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: So you slept with him?
BRANDI: I was drunk okay. You gonna make a big deal out of it.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: No, I guess not.
BRANDI: INT. RONNIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT ON THE TELEVISION: There's an update on the CAROLINA MALL FLASHER. It says he has exposed himself to more As the TV blares the headline, Ronnie lays in his bed and watches. The images shine COLOR on him, but Ronnie is in his own world.
RONNIE: I'm disbanding the task force.
CHARLES: Hey, Ronnie, that's crazy talk. Are you cool?
RONNIE: No, I'm not cool, Charles. In fact, shit is seriously fucked up. I've got to protect the whole mall by myself. Now, I got you this fucking job, when are you going to stop being a little baby and do something for a change.
CHARLES: I'm gonna go check the parking
RONNIE: ( calling out ) I'm sorry, Charles! I didn't mean it, buddy!
RONNIE: You know, Dennis, for the longest time I made this job my whole life. I looked at this mall as a kingdom and I looked at Mark as the King. I thought of myself as the first Knight and the customers, well, they were the peasants. I lived by an old code where one was bound by duty and honor. But now I don't know if I believe in that code anymore. I've lost my way. Now I just feel like it's one big kingdom of shit. Right now, I got half a mind just to let this whole place burn. Burn it to the fucking ground!
DENNIS: ( high ghetto voice ) I've been waiting on you to get on my page this whole time. You look at this mall as a Kingdom?! Shit! I look at this place like a motherfucking jail sentence. You put on that uniform every morning, but what are you really protecting? Commerce and corporations and money. Well I say, fuck that! I'm a fucking outlaw and I'm going to live that until the day I die. Now, I can show you the way, but you've got to be willing to accept it. So I'm gonna ask you now, Ronnie. Are you ready for a trip to the other side?
RONNIE: You're goddamn right I'm ready.
DENNIS: Alright then. Let's party.
DENNIS: So, yeah, usually I take a joint straight to the head before I start work in this motherfucker, but on really stressful days, I like to get drunk too.
RONNIE: Fuck it, give me the bottle.
DENNIS: So then I usually come in here and perv out on girls for about an hour or two. I hooked up twice last week. One was this Asian chick and the other was this mom. She wasn't that hot, but what else do I got to do?
DENNIS: Sweet Jesus in the morning.
DENNIS: Dressing rooms are a great place to hide out, because nobody is really going to think of looking for me here. You can nap or just kind of hang out and just really have some personal time. Hey, hand me that camera.
DENNIS: Thanks, Ronnie.
DENNIS: Right before lunch I usually blaze up again real good.
DENNIS: Hey, what's up, motherfuckers?!
STEVIE: What up, Big Den?!
DENNIS: You know, smokin' that good good.
STEVIE: Dude, why are you hanging out with Fuck you, Stevie!
RONNIE: Fuck you, Stevie!
DENNIS: Hey, Ronnie's alright. Let me see that stick.
BRANDI: That'll be $39.99.
MALE: My wife's gonna love this perfume.
BRANDI: I hope so. It's my favorite.
DENNIS: Come on, brother. Let's go.
RONNIE: Dennis, I got to thank you for today. Man, I was so down, but you taught me that I don't need to take things so seriously here. We have a pointless existence. Who gives a fuck?
DENNIS: Don't mention it, homey. I'm just glad I got me a partner in crime.
RONNIE: A partner. I like that. You know, I've never really had a friend before, but I think that this could be the beginning of a real good thing.
DENNIS: You ain't even seen the best part. After everybody leaves, I rob the shit out of this place.
RONNIE: What do you mean?
DENNIS: I steal shit!
RONNIE: You're the one who's been robbing the mall?
DENNIS: Hell yeah! Who'd you think it was?!
RONNIE: I can't believe this. Right in front of my goddamn face this whole time!
DENNIS: This probably will look good with my complexion.
RONNIE: Dennis, I can't take part in this.
DENNIS: Ronnie, I thought you were down?! What the fuck?! Here I am opening up myself to you and you're just gonna stick it to me like this. What the fuck has this place ever done for you? Don't you know that people see us as jokes?! A useless tool that's left in the shed. Well that's not me. Not now, not ever. I told you, I'm an I can't let you rob the mall.
RONNIE: I can't let you rob the mall.
DENNIS: What the fuck you mean you can't let me?
RONNIE: Come on, Dennis. We're best friends, so just put that stuff back and let's go get a beer.
DENNIS: Alright, Ronnie, you're right.
DENNIS: I don't really know what I was thinking. Robbing the mall? Let's just go get that beer.
RONNIE: Good, man. That makes me feel
DENNIS: See ya in Mexico, bitch.
RONNIE: Ramon, get your ass over here! Go get my spare keys out of the office.
RONNIE: Ramon! Goddamn it get back here! Go get my goddamn keys.
MARK: How fucking stupid do you have to be?! I mean Dennis. What the fuck, Ronnie? How could you not have known it was Dennis? Then, how the fuck could you be so stupid as to let him get away. OBSERVE AND REPORT. Those are the only two things you have to do and you can't do those worth a shit.
RONNIE: Can I speak now?
MARK: Go ahead.
RONNIE: Are you sure?
MARK: Just start talking, Ronnie!
RONNIE: It seems only natural that 'some people' would want to blame me and truth be told I do put a lot of that blame on myself. But some people might say that the cops are to blame for not catching them. Some people might say that the reason this happened was the undeniable fact that I was under- equipped and quite frankly, lacking a sufficient firearm. But not me. I carry this loss alone deep inside my heart.
MARK: Good. Because you're fired.
RONNIE: ( PLAYFUL ) Fuck you.
MARK: I'm serious, Ronnie. I've always liked you, but there's just no excuse for this. Somebody is going down and I'll be damned if it's going to be me. Now, don't make a big thing out of this. Just pack your shit and get out by the end of the day.
RONNIE: Wait a minute. I thought I could trust you, Mark, and now you're telling me that you're going to be the one to put the knife in my back. Fair weather friend you I'm not your friend, I'm your You think you're so smart, Mark. You don't know everything. If you're firing me, then you can say goodbye to your entire Security staff. Because there is no fucking way my team is going to work here if you fire me. Isn't that right, Charles?
MARK: I'm not your friend, I'm your You think you're so smart, Mark. You don't know everything. If you're firing me, then you can say goodbye to your entire Security staff. Because there is no fucking way my team is going to work here if you fire me. Isn't that right, Charles?
RONNIE: You think you're so smart, Mark. You don't know everything. If you're firing me, then you can say goodbye to your entire Security staff. Because there is no fucking way my team is going to work here if you fire me. Isn't that right, Charles?
CHARLES: Ronnie, I got to talk to you about this. Mark asked me down here to escort you out.
RONNIE: And you told him to fuck off, right? Charles? Right?
CHARLES: What the fuck do you want from me, This isn't happening! Everybody is fucking me over?! I hate you
RONNIE: This isn't happening! Everybody is fucking me over?! I hate you
CHARLES: I'm sorry, Ronnie, but it's time to go.
RONNIE: Wait a minute. I'll work for free, Mark.
MARK: No, Ronnie.
RONNIE: I'll pay you.
MARK: I love you.
RONNIE: I love you.
MARK: Ronnie, Jesus have a little self- You don't love me, Mark?
RONNIE: You don't love me, Mark?
MARK: Ronnie, it's over.
RONNIE: Hey, Charles. Mark asked you down here in case I got out of hand? Well, get ready to earn your
MARK: Stop him!
CHARLES: Alright, Ronnie, that's enough.
MOM: What's on the agenda for today?
RONNIE: I guess maybe look for a job or Well, I know you're sad about it, but try to look on the bright There is no bright side. My life is over.
MOM: Well, I know you're sad about it, but try to look on the bright There is no bright side. My life is over.
RONNIE: There is no bright side. My life is over.
MOM: Ronnie, you may not be smart or handsome, but you've got dreams inside of you and dreams make you special. No matter what this world tries to throw at you, they can never take those dreams away.
RONNIE: What the fuck are you talking about, Mom?
MOM: I don't know. I'm drunk. I just know that mothers are supposed to talk like that to their children when they're sad, so I tried. What do you want from me?
RONNIE: Nothing. That's exactly what you're supposed to do. I just blew my life. I tried to be a big shot, a hero and a stupid cop. I wanted to be recognized for being great. I should have just been happy where I was at. I didn't do my duty.
MOM: Ronnie, the other night when I soiled my pants right before I puked myself, I was thinking about how you would come home and find me and clean me up. I knew you would be there to find me and take care of me, so I was able to pass out on the floor and not worry. If there's one thing you know about, it's duty.
RONNIE: I do it because I love you.
MOM: I know and I love you too, Ronnie. I haven't always been easy to deal with and most people would have thrown me away a long time ago.
RONNIE: Are you going to quit drinking?
MOM: I'm switching to beer. I can pound those all day and still keep my shit together. I'm doing it for you.
RONNIE: I'm so proud of you, Mom.
MOM: I'm proud of you. Now today is a new day and we're going to get through it. Now, get out there and find what the world has in store for you.
DENNIS: What's up, Ronnie? How you doing?
RONNIE: I've been better. You?
DENNIS: I'm holding it down in here.
RONNIE: Yeah, I heard they finally caught up with you.
DENNIS: I know. I should have hit Mexico, but, you know, I got stoned and just kind of kicked with this girl in Kannapolis for a while.
RONNIE: You know they fired me when they found out you were the one who robbed the mall.
DENNIS: Shit, dog. Sorry about that.
RONNIE: It's cool, but I need to know why you did it.
DENNIS: I told you. I'm an outlaw.
RONNIE: Come on, Dennis.
DENNIS: Man, you want to know the real Alright, I'll tell you. Man, that gig was one of the best jobs I ever had. I got to wear a uniform, I could smoke weed whenever I wanted. For once in my life, I felt like I was actually somebody. I know most people don't think it's shit, but I really loved it. Then, all of a sudden, I find out that your ass got promoted over me.
RONNIE: Alright, I'll tell you. Man, that gig was one of the best jobs I ever had. I got to wear a uniform, I could smoke weed whenever I wanted. For once in my life, I felt like I was actually somebody. I know most people don't think it's shit, but I really loved it. Then, all of a sudden, I find out that your ass got promoted over me.
DENNIS: Alright, I'll tell you. Man, that gig was one of the best jobs I ever had. I got to wear a uniform, I could smoke weed whenever I wanted. For once in my life, I felt like I was actually somebody. I know most people don't think it's shit, but I really loved it. Then, all of a sudden, I find out that your ass got promoted over me.
RONNIE: What's that?
DENNIS: You ever love a girl so much that you can't break up with her, so the only thing you can do when she pisses you off is smack her in the goddamn face?
RONNIE: No, Dennis, I haven't.
DENNIS: Well, I have. And that's pretty much how I felt about the job.
RONNIE: Thanks for talking to me, Dennis.
DENNIS: Well, it's the least I could do after knocking you out and all.
DENNIS: Hey, Ronnie.
RONNIE: Yeah, Dennis.
DENNIS: Bail me out of here, old friend.
RONNIE: I can't do it, Dennis. You're now a criminal who stopped caring, but my crime is that I care too much.
CHARLES: Ronnie, what are you doing back I just came to talk to Nell. Don't get your panties in a wad, I'm just here as any normal Ronnie, dude, I've been all fucked up in the head. I feel like shit about what happened. I mean, here I am, just looking to shuck responsibility and I ended up hurting you in the process. Look, I should have been honest with you. I don't give two shits about this stupid job. But you do.
RONNIE: I just came to talk to Nell. Don't get your panties in a wad, I'm just here as any normal Ronnie, dude, I've been all fucked up in the head. I feel like shit about what happened. I mean, here I am, just looking to shuck responsibility and I ended up hurting you in the process. Look, I should have been honest with you. I don't give two shits about this stupid job. But you do.
CHARLES: Ronnie, dude, I've been all fucked up in the head. I feel like shit about what happened. I mean, here I am, just looking to shuck responsibility and I ended up hurting you in the process. Look, I should have been honest with you. I don't give two shits about this stupid job. But you do.
RONNIE: It's okay, Charles.
CHARLES: I've decided I'm going back to college. Getting stoned and studying beats this any day. I realize that now. I realize that there aren't any jobs where you can avoid hard choices. Anyway, take as long as you want at the mall. I'll keep Mark off your Thanks, Charles.
RONNIE: Thanks, Charles.
NELL: Ronnie, what are you doing here?
RONNIE: I got something I want to say.
NELL: I don't think we should be I'll be quick. Nell, this is the only job I was ever any good at. I'm not a crime solver or right hand of the law. I'm just a dumb guy in a uniform who can't even become a real policeman. Somewhere along the way I started to think I was something special, someone whose shit didn't stink, someone who deserved to date out of my league. You know, I've learned. My shit does stink. It smells horrible. And you're also out of my league, but for some reason, you like the smell of my shit. I guess what I'm saying
RONNIE: I'll be quick. Nell, this is the only job I was ever any good at. I'm not a crime solver or right hand of the law. I'm just a dumb guy in a uniform who can't even become a real policeman. Somewhere along the way I started to think I was something special, someone whose shit didn't stink, someone who deserved to date out of my league. You know, I've learned. My shit does stink. It smells horrible. And you're also out of my league, but for some reason, you like the smell of my shit. I guess what I'm saying
RONNIE: If you give me another chance, I'll spend the rest of my life making it up to you. And you can call me sweetie in front of people and I'll like it.
RONNIE: Son of a bitch!!!
NELL: Oh, my God!
RONNIE: Are you alright?
NELL: I'm fine.
RONNIE: Shit, we should call somebody.
NELL: Go get him.
RONNIE: Go get him.
NELL: Go get him.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Ronnie comes ripping out of the food court. He's got a fierce look of determination in his eyes. He runs hard to catch up with the Perv.
ANOTHER ANGLE: There's a crowd surrounding the Cell Phone Kiosk. The Pervert bursts through the crowd and knocks people out of the way.
SADDAMN: What the fuck, man?!
RONNIE: Get out of the way! Get out of the way!
RONNIE: Stay the fuck away from my wife!
THE PERVERT: runs past the skaters, who are hanging out on a bench.
STEVIE: Dude, that's fucking disgusting!
STEVIE: Hey, Ronnie, here!
STEVIE: What a fucking douche!
RONNIE: Okay, Ramon, we're fucking even!
THE PERVERT: runs past VICTORIA'S SECRET. He stops at the doorway and as if he can't resist, flashes the ladies in the store. He takes off running again.
RONNIE: as he runs by the RECORD STORE, which of course is BLASTING MUSIC. Ronnie stops at the doorway.
RONNIE: Turn it down. Turn it down.
THE PERVERT: runs past Mark. He looks around at all the people staring.
MARK: Okay, show's over. Enjoy your shopping experience at Carolina
MARK: ( calling out )
CHARLES: What is it?
MARK: Call the police. And go get He's trying to help.
CHARLES: He's trying to help.
MARK: Just do what I ask you.
CHARLES: Hey, Ronnie!
RONNIE: Fuck yeah!
THE PERVERT: has made his way through the whole mall at this point, but Ronnie is right on his ass. The Pervert is heading toward the DEPARTMENT STORE.
CHARLES: You want to report this to the Hell no. I'm taking him down
RONNIE: Hell no. I'm taking him down
MARK: Hey, Ronnie.
MARK: Good job, Ronnie.
RONNIE: Thank you, sir.
BRANDI: Good job, Ronnie.
RONNIE: I don't love you!
BRANDI: I don't love you either.
RONNIE: The customers and employees of the mall CLAP for Ronnie. This is his finest moment.
RONNIE: I caught the Pervert.
DETECTIVE HARRISON: I see that. Well, you better turn him over to me and I'll take him inside and book him.
RONNIE: Since you're a real Cop, right?
DETECTIVE HARRISON: Hey, Ronnie, you may not be an officer of the law, but you're the law's right hand. Good job.
RONNIE: What are you doing?!
NELL: You had an eyelash?
RONNIE: I'm trying to remember my speech.
NELL: Nell looks straight ahead, but smiles as Ronnie tries to take himself serious.
FEMALE REPORTER: Okay, Ronnie, we're ready for you.
FEMALE REPORTER: Okay, we rolling?
CAMERAMAN: ( CONTINUED )
FEMALE REPORTER: Good evening. We're here today with Ronnie Barnhardt, head of Mall Security here at Carolina Mall. Last week, Ronnie was able to catch The CAROLINA MALL FLASHER single-handed and bring him to justice. Ronnie, how did you manage to find the identity of The Pervert and take him down?
RONNIE: Well, being a mall security guard basically requires the same skill set that someone in say the FBI has. You have to use logic and evidence and old-fashioned common sense as well as the latest technology to deduce the criminal mind. It's what I do.
FEMALE REPORTER: Any last words for the folks at Yeah, I'd just like to say that Carolina Mall is back on track and safer than ever.
RONNIE: Yeah, I'd just like to say that Carolina Mall is back on track and safer than ever.
RONNIE: In fact, there are some wonderful sales taking place right now.
RONNIE: So for all you families out there, come on down and see us. It's a wonderful place.
RONNIE: THAT'S IT, YOU LITTLE SHIT!
FEMALE REPORTER: You heard it, folks. Everything is back to normal here at Carolina Mall. Back to you, Lindsay.
THE END: Writers : Jody Hill
