ONLY GOD FORGIVES: Written by Nicolas Winding Refn With the support of the Media Programme of the European Union The SOUND of Muay Thai boxing... The Art of Eight Limbs... Thrust and move... Feet shuffling across the ring...
BILLY: ... I love violence! Billy offers Julian a hit from his bottle of Mehkong whiskey. Julian refuses. He's more interested in the fight. BACK TO THE RING where the fight has just started. Liang is immediately on the ropes. Julian watches, concerned. Billy takes a phone call but he can't hear. He nods to Julian and takes it outside. BACK TO THE FIGHT where Liang pulls an amazing move. Turns the tables. Takes the bigger man down with a series of jabs, swings and backfists. As Julian applauds Liang's success, Billy slinks off out of the auditorium. Liang wins the fight with a knock out... The crowd go wild with adulation... Julian watches, transfixed... Liang is lit up by a beatific white light... As he stands triumphant in the middle of the ring, the crowd start to gather round him... Julian continues to stare at what's taking place before him... ... Which is almost like a religious ceremony... The audience bow down before Liang as he stares out into the light... A look of calm washing over his face... A sense of stillness and peace... Enlightenment through victory and violence...
JULIAN: Two fifty, three hundred... Liang takes the money. Julian pulls off two more notes. A bonus.
JULIAN (CONT'D): You did well out there. You've got something, Liang. Potential, yeah? Liang nods.
JULIAN (CONT'D): Don't spend it all in once place.
JULIAN: He still in there?
THE LIZARD: ... No. Beat... Julian glances at Gordon.
JULIAN: You told him I was coming...
THE LIZARD: Wouldn't listen... Julian stares at him...
JULIAN: Well maybe you didn't try hard enough. The Lizard takes the handkerchief away from his nose. Shows the bloodstain to Julian.
JULIAN (CONT'D): When was the last time you slept? The Lizard smiles but stares at Julian with hatred in his eyes.
THE LIZARD: Just cause I ain't slept for three days, don't mean I don't know right from wrong... and your brother has become a real problem... Again Julian stares at him - clenching his fist. The Lizard notices this but gazes up into Julian's face blankly.
JULIAN: No.
THE LIZARD: Good - 'cause Billy ripped me off and then he broke my face... Julian turns to Gordon.
GORDON: Like I always said. One day he's going to meet the devil. Beat.
JULIAN: You know where he is now? The Lizard stares at Julian.
THE LIZARD: Bangkok has millions of people my friend. You and your brother, you're lost to my world... The Lizard gets up - puts out his cigarette and looks at Julian...
JULIAN: You go. I'm gonna look around. See if I can find him.
GORDON: Sure--?
JULIAN: Go on. He turns back to The Lizard.
JULIAN (CONT'D): Which way'd he go? The Lizard nods his head towards the busy street. Julian turns and heads off... Gordon steps up to the entrance to the club. The Lizard sticks out an arm, blocking his way.
THE LIZARD: His brother didn't pay.
GORDON: So? That's his problem.
THE LIZARD: Now it's your problem.
GORDON: I'm with you mate. Billy's fucked--
THE LIZARD: You don't pay his debt - you don't enter. Gordon thinks for beat. Takes out his money...
GORDON: How much...? ...and The Lizard smiles for the first time.
JULIAN: You seen Billy?
MA LONG: Not this evening. A particularly pretty prostitute catches Juilan's eye. He stares at her, stone faced.
JULIAN: Well if he comes in, tell him I'm looking for him, yeah?
MA LONG: He's not coming in. I tell him to stay away. He hurt one of my girls Julian. Not good... Julian considers. Pulls out his wad of notes again. Hands a few to Ma Long.
JULIAN: Yeah, well... if you see him, tell him I'm looking for him... Ma Long nods as she takes the money. Julian is about to leave. He looks at the pretty prostitute again. Stares at her for a moment. Then walks out.
(IN THAI): Who is that guy? Phaiban says nothing.
(IN THAI): Is he a cop?
(IN THAI): He was... Before Daeng can ask another questions, two more cops lead an older Thai man, Choi Yan Lee (50's, overweight, dragged straight from his bed) down the corridor towards the crime scene.
(IN THAI): Is this your daughter? Beat.
(IN THAI): Yes.
(IN THAI): How could you? ... but Choi Yan Lee just stares at his daughter. Finally:
(IN THAI): ... What?
(IN THAI): How could you let this happen?
(IN THAI): I didn't do anything.
(IN THAI): Well now's your chance. A long moment between them as Choi Yan Lee fails to understand what Chang is suggesting. Chang stands back.
(IN THAI): Do what thou will. Choi Yan Lee nods. Chang leaves the room, closing the door behind him.
(IN THAI): You missed my turning. I live that way. Beat. Chang says nothing. Phaiban is driving, Daeng in the passenger seat. Daeng looks back at them through the rearview mirror...
(IN THAI): We'll get you there.
(IN THAI): I'm so sorry. Please. Please. Please don't hurt me. I'm so sorry.
(IN THAI): What are you sorry for?
(IN THAI): I thought... You were there. He killed my daughter. I thought you were letting me...
(IN THAI): Answer the question. What are you sorry for? Beat. Choi Yan Lee is wrongfooted. Tentatively...
(IN THAI): I killed the Westerner?
(IN THAI): And why did you do that?
(IN THAI): He killed my daughter.
(IN THAI): And why did he do that? Choi Yan Lee can't answer.
(IN THAI): How old was she?
(IN THAI): Fifteen...
(IN THAI): You knew what she was doing and you did nothing.
(IN THAI): How else can we make money? Four daughters. No sons. What else could I do? Daeng watches as Kim opens the boot and pulls something out. He walks towards Chang and hands it to him. Daeng sees that it's an axe.
(IN THAI): What did you expect me to do? You have to have pity on me. My daughter's just been murdered.
(IN THAI): This isn't about her. This is about your other three daughters and making sure you don't forget them. Chang nods to Kim and Phaiban who grab hold of Choi Yan Lee. Kim slips a plastic strap around Choi Yan Lee's arm, using it as a tourniquet. They wrestle him to the ground and pull his arm out.
(IN THAI): I won't forget. I promise. Forgive me. Chang approaches with the axe. He stops for a moment. Looks down at him...
(IN THAI): I'll change. I'll be a better man.
(IN THAI): I know. Chang slams down the axe, severing Choi Yan Lee's arm at the elbow. Choi Yan Lee SCREAMS in agony.
VOICE: I set off running to wake from the dream My brother's rifle went into the sheen I kept on running Into the south lands That's where they found me My head in my hands
CHANG: The sheriff he asked me Why I had run And then it came to me Just what I had done And all for no reason Just one piece of lead I hung my head I hung my head. The policemen, still dressed in their uniforms, watch in respectful silence. Daeng sits with them. He too watches in awe.
(IN THAI): So now that they've caught him... What are they going to do? Kanita thinks for a moment.
(IN THAI): Put him in jail.
(IN THAI): Come on. They haven't got a jail big enough. Look at the size of him. Again Kanita thinks.
(IN THAI): Keep him as a pet?
(IN THAI): But he blew down all their houses. Would you want to keep a pet that could do that? Kanita shakes her head.
(IN THAI): What if they just let him go?
(IN THAI): How could they be sure he wouldn't do it again?
(IN THAI): They could ask him...? Very nicely? Chang picks up the soft toy. Peels off a sticker from a sheet and places it between its eyes. Satisfied with his work he puts the soft toy back in the middle of the game.
(IN THAI): "And so the king and the fairies that lived in the village said to the creature: this is your mark which will stay with you forever. If you ever try and blow down our village again, it will heat up until it boils your brains, for it has magical properties. Go in peace. Kanita nods, happy with the judgement. She picks the soft toy up and 'walks' it away from the village of the dolls.
WINDOW:: ... where everything is back to normal. Men and women walking up and down the sidewalk.
JULIAN: Julian's not here mate. Fuck off... Beat - then we hear a voice from behind the door.
JULIAN: What is it?
JULIAN: I can't deal with my brother right now... Beat.
JULIAN: What? No answer. Finally Julian gets up and wraps a towel around his body and slowly opens the door. Gordon stands in the hallway - behind him two Thai men from Julian's crew.
JULIAN (CONT'D): What happened?
GORDON: They found his body in a hotel room... Julian doesn't know what to say... Neither does Gordon.
GORDON (CONT'D): Look, get dressed and I'll see you downstairs. Julian nods and closes the door. He stands still - glances out the window - seeing the sun setting and the night coming in. He glances at the pretty girl still sleeping on the bed. He goes into the bathroom where Mai is dressed and putting on make up.
MAI: What happened? Julian looks at her.
JULIAN: Someone killed Billy... The camera ZOOMS IN on Mai.
GORDON: What do we do?
JULIAN: For now... We wait. Julian glances back at the body...
JULIAN: Hello Mum. Beat.
JULIAN (CONT'D): It's me... Julian... Something's happened.
JENNA: I'd like to check in now please. The Concierge checks the computer.
CONCIERGE: I'm afraid the room won't be ready until four o'clock. Beat... Jenna just stares at him...
CONCIERGE (CONT'D): ... It's policy
JENNA: I'd like to speak to your manager. Beat.
CONCIERGE: Yes of course... The Concierge retreats. Jenna lights a cigarette.
MANAGER: Good afternoon madam, what seems to be the problem?
JENNA: Listen to me... I've just travelled six thousand miles to see the corpse of my first born son and I haven't slept for thirty hours and he says I can't go to my room. The Manager just stares at her but is clearly taken back by her force...
MANAGER: I'm sorry madam...
JENNA: How much?
MANAGER: ... it simply isn't possible. Jenna pulls out a massive bundle of notes. Peels off a couple of hundred dollar bills.
JENNA: ...Fuck off you cunt, just hand me the fucking key... She lays the money on the desk. The manager looks around...
MANAGER: Well I might be able to arrange something... The Manager turns to the Concierge.
JENNA: Don't leave the money there. Some cunt'll nick it. Put it in your pocket. The Manager hesitates.
JENNA (CONT'D): Put it in your pocket.
MANAGER: There's really no need--
JENNA: Put it in your fucking pocket. The Manager takes the money. Pockets it. Places the key on the desk.
MANAGER: Room 300.
JENNA: Hey... Open this. Jenna points to the Duty Free bag then starts running a bath, beginning to undress.
JENNA (CONT'D): I need a drink. The Porter is stunned.
JENNA (CONT'D): Well don't just stand there... The Porter fumbles, taking the gin out of the Duty Free bag, spilling the tonic in his nervousness as he makes her cocktail. Jenna returns in a dressing gown, takes the drink off him and takes a huge slug. The Porter is terrified, stunned. Rooted to the spot. Jenna sits on the bed and stares out of the window. Just as the Porter thinks it's safe to try edging out of the room again, she starts talking to him...
JENNA (CONT'D): I loved him so much you know... Billy... Beat. The Porter doesn't know what the fuck she's talking about.
JENNA (CONT'D): Everyone loves their children don't they? Well, not everyone, but... She looks over at him. The Porter smiles at her.
JENNA (CONT'D): Do you want to see a picture? The Porter nods, uncertain. Jenna gets up, goes over to her purse. Opens it up. A picture of Billy. She hands it to the Porter - who takes it and just looks at it, not knowing what to do... Jenna starts to cry. For a long time. Finally...
PORTER: Madam. I have to return to my station. Jenna snaps out of it in an instant.
JENNA: What, yeah, thanks. She pulls a fifty dollar bill out of her purse. She hands the money to the Porter who leaves as quickly as he dares.
CUT TO:: BLACK. We hear Dave Berry singing 'Mama'.
JENNA: Could it be have been one of the gangs?
JULIAN: Maybe. Take your pick. Billy wasn't popular.
JENNA: What do you mean?
JULIAN: You know Billy... He was eccentric. Jenna smiles to herself as if this brings back memories and Julian even smiles. Both sit in silence for a moment.
JENNA: But you're going to find out who did it, right?
JULIAN: I'll make sure it gets done.
JENNA: No, it needs to be you that does it. We need to show them. Do you understand what I'm saying?
JULIAN: Yeah, okay, I'll do it.
JENNA: Good. HOLD ON Julian as we bring up the SOUND of Johnny Cash's Ring of Fire.
VOICE: Love is a burning thing And it makes a firey ring Bound by wild desire I fell into a ring of fire
CHANG: I fell into a burning ring of fire I went down, down, down And the flames went higher And it burns, burns, burns The Ring of Fire / The Ring of Fire And the cops are all there, Daeng included, watching him...
CHANG: I fell into a burning ring of fire I went down, down, down And the flames went higher And it burns, burns, burns The Ring of Fire / The Ring of Fire The Cops watch with total devotion.
(IN THAI): You can't kill me. I'm a cripple.
(IN THAI): Who are you? What do you think you're doing? Get out or we'll call the police. Ko Sam shakes his head at her. Not a good idea. Julian turns to Charlie Ling.
JULIAN: Ask him if he's Choi Yan Lee. At the mention of his name the colour drains from Choi Yan Lee's face. His eyes lock with Julian's.
(IN THAI): Is your name Choi Yan Lee? Choi Yan Lee nods his head.
JULIAN: Ask him why he killed my brother.
(IN THAI): You killed his brother. Big mistake fat man. Why'd you do it? Beat. Choi Yan Lee knows he's been caught...
(IN THAI): He murdered my daughter.
CHARLIE LING: He says he killed his daughter. Julian considers him for a moment. Slowly he pulls out a gun... Aims it at Choi Yan Lee's face...
(IN THAI): Oh God. Please don't kill me. Please. I'll give you anything. Anything you want. My daughters. My shop. Please. I've paid for what I did. Look at me. In his desperation Choi Yan Lee suddenly lurches forward, brandishing his wounded arm at Julian. He pulls the bandages off, exposing the bloody stump.
(IN THAI): I've paid for what I did. Don't you see? Julian turns to Charlie Ling.
JULIAN: What's he saying? Beat.
CHARLIE LING: He says... He says he's paid for what he's done. That he's been punished already. Choi Yan Lee nods his head enthusiastically.
(IN THAI): He told me to do it. Then he took my hand. Look. Again he thrusts his stump at Julian who glances at him.
JULIAN: Who did that to him? Choi Yan Lee looks at the various faces that surround him - then stares directly at Julian.
(IN THAI): The Angel of Vengeance... Charlie Ling looks at him surprised... yet there's a sense that deep down he knows what he's talking about...
(IN THAI): It's a lie - he doesn't exist...
(IN THAI): I'm telling the truth. It was the Angel of Vengeance.
JULIAN: What's he saying?
CHARLIE LING: He's lying...
JULIAN: Tell me.
CHARLIE LING: It's a story old women tell their grand children... 'The Angel of Vengeance' is supposed to come down from the heavens and judge the living... restore karma to the world.. Gordon laughs... but Julian listens with great interest...
JULIAN: How does he do that?
CHARLIE LING: Leads people to their destiny... That's the myth anyway. Ko Sam smiles. Julian doesn't. Finally:
JULIAN: Ask him who cut his hand off. Charlie Ling's reluctant to question him further. Julian insists.
JULIAN (CONT'D): Do it.
(IN THAI): Who turned you into a cripple - and no bullshit this time. Choi Yan Lee continues babbling hysterically...
CHARLIE LING: He says it was The Angel of Vengeance... Choi Yan Lee starts to giggle uncontrollably.
(IN THAI): The Angel of Vengeance. Yes. You don't find the Angel of Vengeance. No. He finds you.
JULIAN: What's he saying?
(IN THAI): Pull yourself together fat man. If you don't talk sense I'll cut off your cock and shove it down your throat.
(IN THAI): I'm telling you the truth. He'll find you. Choi Yan Lee retreats to the corner of the room.
JULIAN: What did he say? Charlie Ling considers Choi Yan Lee. Realizes he's not going to get a better answer out of him...
CHARLIE LING: He said you don't find The Angel of Vengeance. He finds you... Julian considers this for a long time. He realises he's not pointing his gun anymore. Puts it away.
GORDON: Are we going to kill him or what? The room suddenly feels stuffy. The atmosphere oppressive. Julian's got to get out...
GORDON (CONT'D): What are you doing? But Julian's already stumbling out of the kiosk...
JULIAN: Nothing... We're not going to do anything... Just leave him. Leave them all.
JENNA: Did you kill him? Beat. A shared look between Gordon and Julian.
JULIAN: It's a little bit more complicated than that Mum.
JENNA: Complicated? He killed my son... What's so fucking complicated about that?
JULIAN: Mum, calm down...
JENNA: Don't tell me to calm down. I want him dead. Beat... Julian does not know how to explain the situation. Jenna stares at him.
JENNA (CONT'D): We don't forgive. Only God does.
JULIAN: I know, you always say that - but this is different...
JENNA: How? Silence. Julian doesn't know how to answer. Jenna watches him carefully...
JULIAN: Maybe... Maybe Billy had it coming...
JENNA: What are you talking about?
JULIAN: ...because of what he did. Jenna thinks it over for a moment.
JENNA: I don't care.
JULIAN: Why?
JENNA: Just don't - some Thai cunt murdered your brother and we're not going to let him get away with it.
JULIAN: What if... What if it was The Angel of Vengeance? Jenna stares at her son like he's finally lost the plot.
JENNA: The Angel of fucking what...?
JULIAN: ...it - or he - restores karma and order in the world.
JENNA: 'Restores' things? Who said anything about 'restoring' things? Beat.
JULIAN: He loves all humans...
JENNA: I don't know what kind of spiritual journey you're on, but you will kill
JULIAN: I'm not, I'm just... Julian can't get the words out. He gets up.
JULIAN (CONT'D): ... I've got to go. ...and Julian leaves - letting the door to the office stay open. We pick up the sounds of the fighters training outside as we slowly ZOOM IN on Jenna. She turns to Gordon.
JENNA: How's business?
GORDON: It's alright, yeah. Well, what with Billy not being around, it's tricky to be honest...
JENNA: What d'you mean?
GORDON: Well, we're supposed to be moving five keys out the end of this week. But Billy's not here, is he?
JENNA: I'm here. Julian's here. Gordon shrugs. Jenna clocks it.
JENNA (CONT'D): What's gotten into him...? Is he high or something?
GORDON: I don't know. Earlier today - we had the guy... The guy that killed Billy. Had a gun against his face. But then - nothing...
JENNA: Nothing?
GORDON: Julian let him go. Now there's all this stuff about angels... I don't know what the fuck's wrong with him.
JENNA: Not like you... Gordon smiles at her uncertainly.
GORDON: I know how to do what needs to be done. That's all. She stares at him, long enough to make him uncomfortable.
JENNA: So tell me... What did he mean when he said it was complicated?
GORDON: There's this other guy... Might have been involved...
JENNA: So we kill them both.
GORDON: We don't know who the other guy is yet...
JENNA: Okay. Well how about we start with the guy we do know?
MAI: Sorry I'm late.
JULIAN: It's alright... He drinks his drink. Silence...
MAI: What's wrong?
JULIAN: Nothing. Mai looks around the bar... It's half empty - some girls and men spread out. The waitress comes over and Mai orders a drink. They sit in silence, listening to the song...
MAI: See anyone you want us to take home tonight? Julian glances round but shakes his head. Looks at Mai.
MAI (CONT'D): What?
JULIAN: Nothing...
MAI: What's with you? You want to get high? Beat. Silence. Finally...
JULIAN: I want you to meet my Mum. A pause, Mai slightly taken about.
MAI: Is she here? Julian nods.
MAI (CONT'D): D'you want me to? Julian nods. Mai studies him.
MAI (CONT'D): Why d'you want me to meet her?
JULIAN: To show her... To show that I've got something here...
MAI: What, like we're a couple? Julian stares at her for a long time. Can't quite say it out loud, but the answer's yes.
GORDON: Never come back - you understand me? Liang nods.
GORDON (CONT'D): Good... Liang takes the money. A proper pay out.
GORDON (CONT'D): You're a fighter, kid. No doubt about it. Good luck with that.
JULIAN: When did you last see him?
LIANG'S SISTER: Last night. He went out.
JULIAN: Did he have any enemies?
LIANG'S SISTER: None.
(IN THAI): Someone called him.
LIANG'S SISTER: Someone called his mobile.
JULIAN: Who?
LIANG'S SISTER: She doesn't know. They spoke in English. Liang's Mother pulls out a mobile phone. Passes it to Julian.
JULIAN: This his phone? Liang's Sister nods. Julian scrolls through the numbers. All have Thai names against them - except one. Julian considers the number, then redials. A beat. Then the SOUND of a phone ringing in the same room. Gordon looks round. Realises he's busted. Takes his phone out. Kills it. Julian stares at him. Before he gets a chance to say anything, there is a knock on the door.
JULIAN (CONT'D): What is it?
JUILAN: What do they want?
JULIAN: No, I'll talk to them.
JULIAN: Good morning officers. How can I help you? Slowly Chang turns to face him. Julian stares at him as if he's in a trance...
KIM: We're investigating the murder of Choi Yan Lee. Julian recovers. Turns to Kim and shrugs.
JULIAN: Never heard of him.
KIM: His arm was cut off. Here. Julian manages to cover his reaction.
JULIAN: I run a boxing club. Not much call for one armed men. A beat. Mexican stand off.
JULIAN (CONT'D): What's this got to do with me?
KIM: He was the father of the girl that was found dead with your brother.
JULIAN: Then I guess you boys have got a lot of work to do - so have I, so if you'll excuse me...
KIM: That's why we're here Mr Hopkins. If you could just answer our questions.
JULIAN: Sure, sorry. What do you want to know? Julian looks over to Chang who continues staring at the boxers. The way the ring is lit he's almost silhouetted.
KIM: Where were you last night?
JULIAN: With my mum... Some of the boxers come over to Chang. They know him. They're reverential. With the effect of the lighting, it seems to Julian like they're bowing down before a God.
JULIAN (CONT'D): You want to speak to her?
KIM: That wont be necessary at the moment.
JULIAN: Am I suspect? Chang turns round to face Julian. His presence is magnetic. Julian stares back at him, realizing that this must be the Angel of Vengeance... Chang walks over to them. Studies Julian for a long moment and then turns to Kim.
(IN THAI): This is not the man. And as soon as he's said it, he turns on his heel and leaves. The cops back off and away. ZOOM IN on Julian. Deflated and strangely disappointed... He turns to Gordon who's standing behind him.
JULIAN: I want you to find out who that guy is. Okay?
GORDON: Sure. No problem.
JULIAN: Now. The SOUND of Nadee singing 'LONELY COMING DOWN' by Dolly Parton.
CHANG: Why are you here?
JULIAN: You're him... Aren't you?
CHANG: Who?
JULIAN: The one who killed my brother. Chang says nothing for a long time.
CHANG: I love all living things. Beat.
CHANG (CONT'D): I restore karma. Is that why you came?
JULIAN: I came here to kill you.
CHANG: What's stopping you?
JULIAN: I don't know...
CHANG: Would you like me to tell you? Julian nods.
CHANG (CONT'D): You want the Angel of Vengeance.
JULIAN: Yes.
CHANG: Why?
JULIAN: Cause, all my life... I don't know.
CHANG: Yes you do.
JULIAN: My mother wants me to kill you. Chang stares back at him.
CHANG: And what do you want?
JULIAN: ... I love violence.
CHANG: You want to fight me? Julian nods.
JULIAN: Thai style.
(IN THAI): What about his brain?
(IN THAI): It's a risk... One hit in the wrong place and he'll be straight back in hospital. And maybe he wont be so lucky as last time.
(IN THAI): Then why's he going to fight the Westerner? The question hangs in the air. It's what they're all wondering.
PHAIBUN: He used to be a great boxer.
KIM: He has to do it. Since he came out of the coma, that's what he's done. Whatever's been asked of him, he's done it. He can't help it. It's all a mystery... A mutual pause.
DAENG: And if he loses?
PHAIBUN: He can't lose. He's the Angel of Vengeance.
CHANG: View.
NADEE: Window. `She points at the table.
CHANG: Table.
NADEE: Do you like the table?
CHANG: Yes. I like the table. Chang stiffens. Nadee detects the change in him.
NADEE: What is it? Chang takes her in his arms. He starts kissing her neck.
CHANG: I need to speak to you in Thai. A pause.
(IN THAI): What is it?
(IN THAI): I love you. She stares at him for a long moment. It's odd for him to have confessed his feelings in such a way. Not bad, just odd. And then she starts to kiss him back...
MAI: What is it?
JULIAN: You can't wear that.
MAI: Why not?
JULIAN: My mother's... Very particular about colours.
MAI: You're kidding?
JULIAN: She hates red. Come on, we'll get you something else. Mai stares at him, reluctant to give in.
JULIAN (CONT'D): Come on.
MAI: This is insane.
JULIAN: Look, I'm telling you. It's easier this way. Trust me. Mai gives in. Takes his hand.
JENNA: So... May, isn't it?
JULIAN: It's Mai, Mum.
JENNA: How long have you two known each other then? Mai's about to answer but Juilan gets there first.
JULIAN: A year and a half isn't it? Beat as Mai quickly counts in her head...
MAI: ...that sounds about right.
JENNA: Well it's always a rare treat to meet one of Julian's lady friends.
JULIAN: Mum, please...
JENNA: So, where did you two meet?
JULIAN: I saw her walking down the street. Jenna raises an eyebrow...
JULIAN (CONT'D): And I thought - this is the most beautiful girl I've ever seen - so I just walked up to her and started talking.
JENNA: I hear that happens a lot in this part of the world... Tell me, what's your line of work, Mai?
MAI: I work in the service industry.
JENNA: I bet you do. But tell me Mai, before you started serving my son, how many cocks were you serving? Was it over a thousand? Mai stares at Jenna in disbelief.
JENNA (CONT'D): I know girls like you. Just because you might be pulling the wool over my son's eyes don't think it's going to work with me.
JULIAN: Mum, stop it, for fuck's sake.
JENNA: I'm sorry Julian, but I won't stand by and let a dirty little hooker take advantage of my son in the vain hope that her womb isn't so diseased that she can trick him into impregnating her and putting another cocksucking child on to this earth.
JULIAN: Leave her alone Mum. You've got her wrong. She's a good girl.
JENNA: What do you know about what's good? Beat. Julian says nothing.
MAI: He's good to me...
JENNA: Well that's nice isn't it, I'm really happy for you--
JULIAN: Mum! A pause.
JULIAN (CONT'D): The cops came by my club today. Beat. She stares at him.
JULIAN (CONT'D): They're investigating a murder. The guy that killed Billy turned up dead this morning. Jenna looks bored. Lights a cigarette.
JENNA: Oh really, shame that, still, live by the sword, die by the sword...
JULIAN: I know it was you, Mum.
JENNA: I did what had to be done.
JULIAN: He was there. He was with them.
JENNA: Who?
JULIAN: The Angel of Vengeance.
JENNA: D'you kill him?
JULIAN: No.
JENNA: Cause he as good as killed Billy. What I want to know is, what are you going to do about it?
JULIAN: I'm not going to kill him...
JENNA: Yes you are. You're going to do it for me and you're going to do it for your brother.
JULIAN: This isn't about Billy. This is about me. All my life I've been running...
JENNA: That's right you cunt, cause you always run away whenever there's a problem... just like you're running away from killing this fucking Angel of whatever
JULIAN: - his name is Chang-
JENNA: Chang?! Mai stands up.
MAI: I should be going now.
JENNA: Sit down you cunt.
JULIAN: Mum, don't talk to her like that. Mai sits down.
JENNA: So what am I left with? Julian stares at her.
JULIAN: Me. Jenna calms down. She looks at their reflections in the mirror behind the bar. We ZOOM in on the mirror, their faces refracted by the glass.
JENNA: You're right. We're family. We stick together. But Billy was family too.
JULIAN: Billy was a fuck up... He deserved everything he got. You know it and I know it.
JENNA: That's it. I'm not listening to this. I don't ever want to hear you mention his name again... Do you hear me?
JULIAN: Yeah we were brothers, but we were never close... And he was only in Bangkok cause you couldn't control him. So you sent him to me--
JULIAN (CONT'D): -- So you sent him to me and what could I do?
JENNA: You could have protected him.
JULIAN: I did what I could. And that's more than you ever did.
JENNA: I would've done anything for him. Okay, he wasn't born with as many advantages as you were. He struggled with things. But I always stood by him.
JULIAN: And what did that get him? I'll tell you what, a one way ticket to this fucking place, just like me.
JENNA: Don't you dare blame me for what happened back then.
JULIAN: I'm only here 'cause of you. If you didn't exist, I wouldn't be here. Beat.
JULIAN (CONT'D): I could've been someone, Mum. I was on my way... Jenna stares at him - this is a conversation she does not like having...
JENNA: You would've been a great fighter... You could've gone pro.
JULIAN: Don't you think I know that? And look at me now. I'm a front for a drugs smuggling. He turns to Mai.
JULIAN (CONT'D): It's true... The whole thing's a front. Every day I see kids coming in with great potential. And every day I see kilos of heroin going out. And it's all because of you, Ma. You and the money and the drugs. Jenna silently seethes, waiting for Julian to shut the fuck up. He quietens down...
JENNA: At least you're not behind bars and that's more important to me. Julian turns to her - he has been waiting all his life to say this.
JULIAN: That's right Mum. That's what's more important to you. But what about me? Sometimes I think you only got me out of there so the cops couldn't trace it back to you... Jenna stares at him. Her face a mask.
JULIAN (CONT'D): ...that's right Mum. Think about it. With me gone you were safe. And it turned out to be good for business as well. All very convenient. Silence between them. Jenna lights another cigarette - her hands now shaking.
JULIAN (CONT'D): Is that what happened with Billy? Did Billy become a problem like I did? Wouldn't surprise me, he was a big fucking problem when he was here... Still, at least you didn't have him killed. Jenna slaps him hard on the face. Julian recovers. Looks up at her. Very intense.
JULIAN (CONT'D): I'm not going to kill him for you, Mum. Doesn't matter what you say. And do you want to know why?
JENNA: Surprise me.
JULIAN: 'Cause I'm going to fight him. In the ring. Me versus him.
JENNA: Well that seems sensible... And what do you hope that's going to achieve?
JULIAN: I don't expect you to understand. Cause you don't understand anything that isn't about you.
JENNA: And when you lose, what's going to happen then?
JULIAN: I don't know... But maybe this time I'll win. Like you say, only God forgives. Maybe this time he'll forgive me... Jenna turns to Mai.
JENNA: Do you understand what he's talking about? 'Cause I haven't got a fucking a clue.
JULIAN: You never did, Mum. A pause. Julian's touched a nerve. Jenna recovers.
JENNA: I hope you find what you're looking for. 'Cause if you don't, it's going to find you and I'm not always going to be there to look after you. Jenna composes herself. Suddenly brightens. A different person.
JENNA (CONT'D): Nice to meet you Mai. Hope to see you again soon. Jenna shakes her hand. Mai's too shocked to resist. And then, as if nothing had happened, Jenna leaves. Julian covers his face with his napkin.
MAI: Are you alright? He's not. He's crying. But he doesn't want anyone to see.
JULIAN: I'm fine. Beat.
JULIAN (CONT'D): I'll be fine. In a minute. Julian wipes his face clean. Pulls himself together.
JULIAN (CONT'D): Sorry about that.
GORDON: Nice evening?
JENNA: Lovely, yeah. Just catching up, you know. Jenna sits down. Lights a cigarette.
JENNA (CONT'D): You're a piece of work, aren't you? Gordon blushes. Jenna blows out her match.
JENNA (CONT'D): No fucking hanging about with you, is there?
GORDON: Well, I don't know about that. Just been out here a while... Know how to get things done.
JENNA: I bet you do.
GORDON: But things are going to shit. Since Billy died, Julian's all over the place...
JENNA: We'll have to something about that the, wont we? But, first things first, what about Chang?
GORDON: Who?
JENNA: My son's guardian angel.
GORDON: He's just a retired cop...
JENNA: Good, then he won't be to hard to kill, will he?
GORDON: It's not that simple... Is there somewhere we can go that's a little more private? Beat. She raises her eyebrows.
JENNA: What did you have in mind? Gordon blushes. Moves closer, conspiratorial...
GORDON: You can't just going round killing cops here anymore. It's not that easy.
JENNA: I didn't say it was easy. But then, you're a resourceful man, aren't you?
GORDON: I looked into it. Chang's a hard man to get to. None of the Thais'll go near him...
JENNA: Well then you're going to have to find someone who's not a fucking Thai then, aren't you?
GORDON: There might be a way... But Julian can't find out... Jenna looks at Gordon - smiles and crosses her legs.
JENNA: Don't you worry about that. There are certain things that a mother and son shouldn't - and don't - discuss... Gordon thinks he does but isn't a hundred per cent sure.
MAI: What are you doing?
JULIAN: Seeing when it hurts. Mai watches him. He doesn't flinch.
MAI: I'm going to go. Julian takes his hand off the flame. Sees she's left the clothes he bought her behind.
JULIAN: Didn't you like what I got you?
MAI: It's fine, but you know... It's not my style.
JULIAN: What do you mean?
MAI: Maybe you should give it to your mother.
JULIAN: Don't to be so hard on her. Her life hasn't been easy.
MAI: Come on Julian. She's a fucking bitch.
JULIAN: Don't say that, okay? You don't know what you're talking about. She'd do anything for me.
MAI: The way she talks to you --
JULIAN: Don't go there.
MAI: What? 'Don't talk about my mother'? Come on Julian. Julian stands up, angry.
MAI (CONT'D): Why don't you fuck her instead of me? Julian grabs hold her neck. Throws her hard against the wall.
JULIAN: You don't get to judge her. You think she's bad? You should've met my dad. But he's not around anymore, and do you know why? Cause she loved me too much. He lets go of her neck. Mai rubs her neck.
MAI: You're fucked. He pulls money out of his pocket.
JULIAN: How much do I owe you? He forces a roll of notes into her hand, forcing her to take it.
MAI: Fuck you. She opens the door, sets fire to the money, and walks out of the room. As she walks down the hotel corridor, Julian slams his fists into the wall.
YURI KARKOV: ... so why do you want to kill a policeman? Policemen are good. They mind their own business and keep the streets safe. Stop people stealing my cars...
JENNA: You really want to know?
YURI KARKOV: Yes. It may effect the price.
JENNA: He killed my son.
YURI KARKOV: Revenge. Pricey...
JENNA: This is Bangkok. Nothing's that expensive.
YURI KARKOV: You're right. Most things are cheap in Bangkok. Especially life... We'll take care of this business for you. But it won't be easy and it won't be cheap.
(IN THAI): Do you want to die? Do you want me to kill you? For what you've done? A long pause. Finally:
(IN THAI): No. Please. Don't kill me.
(IN THAI): Tell me why not. Tell me why I shouldn't shoot you as soon as you come out of that door.
(IN THAI): I'm sorry?
(IN THAI): Not good enough.
(IN THAI): It's my first time. I've never done anything like this before.
(IN THAI): I know that. You're wearing sandals. Hitmen don't wear sandals. The door opens. Sandaled feet step out of the van. Gunman Three comes out with his hands up, falling to his knees. Chang continues to point his weapon at the unarmed man.
(IN THAI): Give me a reason. The Cops appear behind him in the doorway. Chang holds his ground. His finger twitches. It looks like he's going to pull the trigger.
(IN THAI): I'm begging you. Please--
(IN THAI): You showed no mercy in there. Why should mercy be shown to you?
(IN THAI): I don't know...
(IN THAI): Yes you do. A long beat.
(IN THAI): I don't know his name.
(IN THAI): But you know where he is. Gunman Three looks up... Nods.
(IN THAI): You know why we're here.
(IN THAI): Yes...
(IN THAI): He set it up. He knows who ordered the hit. He'll tell you.
(IN THAI): Don't talk unless I ask you to. Understood?
(IN THAI): Yes. Completely understood. Chang turns to Li Po.
(IN THAI): Do you have anything to say for yourself?
(IN THAI): I'm a salesman. Some of the things I sell aren't exactly legal... But I'll give you the man that hired the hit... Chang stares at him...
(IN THAI): Good... Li Po summons the contact details on his distinctive looking mobile phone. Proffers it to Chang.
(IN THAI): As for myself, I'm not scared of paying for what I've done. I just... just don't hurt my son. Chang looks down at Pan - who is just staring at them, not understanding the situation. Chang takes the phone from Li Po.
(IN THAI): You see? He knows. He's got the details. I told you he would.
(IN THAI): And I told you not to talk unless I asked you. Chang aims his gun at Gunman Three.
(IN THAI): Wait. You said if I took you to him you'd let me live. Chang shakes his head.
(IN THAI): I never said that. Chang fires. Gunman Three's brains spatter across the TV screens on the far side of the wall. Pan begins to cry and Li Po hugs him and tells him how much he loves him... thinking they're next... Chang studies the mobile phone.
(IN THAI): This him? Li Po nods - scared.
(IN THAI): Where do I find him?
(IN THAI): Skylight bar at the Jupiter.. Every night. Chang studies Li Po making sure he speaks the truth... then nods.
(IN THAI): I'm taking your phone. Chang turns to leave.
(IN THAI): What about me? Beat. Chang considers. Looks at Pan who's staring at Chang in fear. Looks back at Li Po.
(IN THAI): I forgive you...
YURI: You better have a fucking good reason for doing this. Don't you know who you're fucking with. Chang looks at him.
(IN THAI): You live in my country. Can't speak my language... Too bad the one guy on my team that could speak English got murdered today. Yuri looks round for help. He can't understand a word.
YURI: Can someone tell me what the fuck this guy's trying to say... Chang calls over to the barman.
(IN THAI): Can you turn the music off. It won't be long, I promise. The music's killed.
(IN THAI): That's better. Thank you very much... Chang pulls out Li Po's distinctive mobile phone. Dimitri, currently flanking Yuri, turns white. Chang calls a number. A beat. Then a phone starts ringing in Dimitri's jacket pocket (with a really cheesy ringtone). Dimitri winces. Chang shakes his head. Yuri pulls a gun. Kim shoots him dead. Chang moves his gun across to Dimitri. Holds his mobile phone up to his ear. Dimitri answers. Chang speaks through the phone.
(IN ENGLISH): You're under arrest...
CHANG (CONT'D): I need information. Phaiban spins a spotlight onto Dimitri.
CHANG (CONT'D): And you're going to help me. Suddenly the atmosphere in the emptied club shifts. It's as if Dimitri and Chang are locked into some kind of surreal performance...
CHANG (CONT'D): Whether you like it or not. Dimitri's body starts to shake in fear.
DIMITRI: It was an English woman - she wanted you dead... A beat. Not what Chang expected...
CHANG: Why?
DIMITRI: Said you... murdered her son....
CHANG: Who was she?
DIMITRI: I don't know...
CHANG: How did she know me? Dimitri shakes his head. He really doesn't know.
DIMITRI: She asked for you by name...
CHANG: And what's my name?
CHANG--: Chang starts to circle him. Dimitri's terrified. Doesn't know what the fuck he's on about. Suddenly he's grabbed from behind by Phaiban. Chang smashes a beer bottle and walks up behind Dimitri...
(IN THAI): I see the way you look at my people. The way you abuse them with your eyes. For this, I take your sight. He pushes the broken bottle into Dimitri's eyes. Gauges them out. Dimitri screams hysterically - calling out for his mother in Russian...
(IN THAI): You live in my country, but you fail to learn our language. You don't even try. For this I take your tongue... Phaibun grabs Dimitri's head from behind. Chang presses down on his stomach with his knee and opens his mouth - grabs hold of his tongue and with a blade slowly cuts it off. ...Dimitri's screams become more like the howls of a dying animal... Chang looks at him and his men release Dimitri who stumbles around the room like a chicken without a head...
(IN THAI): You had opportunities. You could have chosen other paths... But you wouldn't listen... For this I give you silence... Chang grabs Dimitri and pushes the knife into his ear. First one side, then the other. SOUND OUT. We can't hear Dimitri's screaming. We can't hear anything at all. Beat. MUSIC STARTS. Painful and beautiful, but also tacky... The opening bars to one of Dolly Parton's classics. Karaoke style.
NADEE: I hope life treats you kind And I hope you have all you've dreamed of... And I wish you, joy and happiness.
CHANG: But above all this, I wish you love. And I will always love you.
(IN THAI): Fight. Julian and Chang circle each other. Julian moves in to attack first. He throws a straight left first to Chang's face and steps his left foot forward at the same time. Chang bends his right leg, dodging the attack. He then pounces on the upper part of Julian's arm with his right hand and catches his wrist with his left hand. He tries to turn Julian's front wrist up, but Julian's too strong. This is a surprise for Chang. He breaks and steps back. Julian moves in to attack again, raising both elbows to make an attack on Chang's head. Chang steps forward and pulls an uppercut, connecting hard with Julian's chin. Julian moves back, dazed. Takes a moment to get his bearings back. That hurt. Chang doesn't take the opportunity to attack. He hangs back. Waiting for Julian to come at him again. This pisses Julian off. He moves forward and throws an offensive kick with his right foot. Chang moves back to dodge the attack and swivels to try and strike with a counter attack. He moves too slow. The right footed attack was a feint. Julian slams his right foot down on the floor and uses it to swivel, unleashing a kick with his left which connects with Chang's jaw and sends him flying back. Julian uses his forward motion to propel him onwards. He bounds over to the disoriented Chang and hits him with a series of jabs and punches to his upper body and face. Chang's almost on the ropes. Julian comes in hard with kicks to the shins with his right foot. Chang bends his body to pass under Julian's right foot. Julian misses the target. Chang manages to place his right foot on Julian's left knee-joint which makes him fall down. Julian's in a vulnerable position, but Chang doesn't move to make the killer blow. He steps back to let him recover. Again this enrages Julian. He gets up and moves forward towards Chang. He comes in with a high right kick. Again Chang manages to dodge the attack and returns with a right foot to the back of Julian's left knee. Julian swivels, punches air, and gets a trio of punches in his gut. His guard's down. But again no killer punch.
JULIAN: Come on. Chang retreats. Shrugs at Julian. You come on. Julian moves towards him, but before he gets a chance to take out his frustrations, the bell goes. End of round one. Julian stalks back to his corner. He turns to look at Chang, a look of intense anger and frustration.
(IN THAI): Break. The two fighters step back from each other. Chang's face is damaged. Juilan's about to get stuck into him again when the bell sounds. End of the second round. Round three: Julian slamming punches into Chang. Nadee comforting Kanita. Telling her it'll be okay. Chang responding with kicks and elbows. Defensive blocks and counter attacks. Mai willing Julian on. Jenna watching with Gordon... End of round: Julian feeling more confident. Again his eyes scan the crowd. This time he sees what he's looking for: Jenna. Chang eyeballs Julian from the other corner. Sees him staring into the crowd. Looks over. Tries to see what he's looking at but can't make it out. POV from Chang as he sees Jenna make her way toward Julian. When she gets to him we see her saying something to Julian about the fight - urging him to hit harder... Jenna then walks back to Gordon... On Chang. Deep in thought. He gets up early. Walks around the ring. Looking into the crowd. Jenna sees him. Stares at him. Suddenly nervous. Everything slows down as Chang clocks her again. The colours of the room change from blue to yellow to red. He's seen her and she knows she's been seen. And he knows. And she knows that he knows... The bell goes off. Back to reality. Chang turns round. Too late. He gets a massive blow to his head. He goes down hard. The Referee starts counting. Nadee and Kanita watch on, fearful. Jenna holds her breath. Hopeful that he might be down and out. Kim watches on, concerned.
(IN THAI): Get up. Please get up. After a long, terrible pause... Chang gets up. He looks over into the crowd. Makes eye contact with his wife. It's okay. She shakes her head. She can't bear it. Tears running down her face. Back on his feet, Chang suddenly drops his guard. Julian hesitates, confused. Chang leans in close to him. Winks.
CHANG: It wasn't you, was it? Julian shrugs, puts his guard up.
CHANG (CONT'D): You're innocent.
JULIAN: What are you talking about?
CHANG: It's not your fault. Chang raises his arms again. Ready to fight. Julian gets ready to attack but something's changed. The fire's gone out of him. He looks over to his mother, to Mai, Chang's words echoing in his mind. It's not his fault. Then Chang comes in with a flurry of punches. Left, right, left, right. Julian just takes them... Chang pauses in the onslaught. Julian stays motionless in the middle of the ring. Chang runs at him, flings his right foot, swivels, pulling out a roundhouse left kick - - which makes contact with Julian's draw. SLOW MOTION as Julian's head takes the impact. He's out cold before he hits the floor.
JENNA: He doesn't want to see anyone. Mai is disappointed. Doesn't know what to say.
JENNA (CONT'D): Just give him time...
MAI: ...tell him I came?
JENNA: Of course. Jenna hugs Mai close.
JENNA (CONT'D): We'll get him through this together.
JENNA: You deserved to win. You should've
JULIAN: Give it a break mum. Just... give it as rest. He steps into the light. She reaches out to touch him.
JENNA: I'll never get use to seeing you get hurt - even when you win.
JULIAN: Yeah, well I lost.
JENNA: And did it make a difference? Julian says nothing.
JENNA (CONT'D): I want to know... Did it make a difference? Slowly he shakes his head.
JULIAN: ... No... it didn't make a difference... No difference at all.
JENNA: And how do you feel now?
JULIAN: Nothing. I don't feel anything at all.
JENNA: Don't you see, that's how I felt when Billy died... Julian studies his mother.
JULIAN: What do you want, Mum? Beat.
JENNA: What d'you think I want? I want it to be like it used to be... I don't want to lose you... Jenna starts crying. Could be real, could be an act - hard to tell she's so good...
JULIAN: What's wrong Mum? She shakes her head. Can't say it.
JULIAN (CONT'D): What's wrong?
JENNA: He knows... He knows it was me.
JULIAN: Who does? Beat. Jenna says nothing. Julian thinks... Cogs turn...
JULIAN (CONT'D): Chang? Jenna nods.
JULIAN (CONT'D): What did you do, Mum? What did you do? Jenna makes her hand into a pistol. Pretends to fire it into her skull. She tried to have Chang killed. Julian's speechless.
JENNA: He's going to come after me. And after he's come after me, he's going to come after you. Julian stares at his mother; fragile, terrified, alone.
JENNA (CONT'D): I'm scared, Julian. Julian stares at his mother.
JENNA (CONT'D): What are we going to do? Julian begins to realize what he has to do... and he looks at his hands. Finally...
JULIAN: We'll be okay - I'll do it, I'll take him out...
JENNA: Not just him. We've got to take them all out. Julian stares at her - the power she has over him...
JENNA (CONT'D): Kill them all. The final solution.
(IN THAI): What happened to the princess' head?
(IN THAI): The monsters were angry. They bit it off.
(IN THAI): I thought the King banished them all from his kingdom?
(IN THAI): These were new monsters. The woods are full of them. Chang holds the broken princess' body. A sudden wave of fear washes over him. A sense of doom.
(IN THAI): What's wrong Dad?
(IN THAI): Nothing's wrong. Go to sleep.
(IN THAI): They're going to come after me... Okay. Good. He ends the call. Stares at his reflection in the window.
(IN THAI): Hello...
(IN THAI): She is in her room...
(IN THAI): You sure it's her?
(IN THAI): Yes...
(IN THAI): Good... see you very soon. ...and Chang hangs up... The Angel of Vengeance getting ready to strike again.
(IN THAI): What's your name?
(IN THAI): Li Hom.
(IN THAI): Listen Li Hom. You see anyone you don't like... You call me, okay? Li Hom nods. Chang leaves.
(IN THAI): And by the way... Chang turns.
(IN THAI): Congratulations. Last night. Everyone in the station's talking about it. Chang nods. Leaves.
JULIAN: We're outside.
JULIAN: I need you here. Right now.
JULIAN: Okay. Julian kills his phone. He's still for a moment, then:
JULIAN (CONT'D): Let's make a move.
KIM: They wont disturb us. Chang nods. The elevator door opens.
CHANG: What floor?
KIM: Top.
JULIAN: What's it say? Charlie starts reading the article out:
CHARLIE LING: "Boxing Cop Hero Back From Grave". One of Bangkok's finest, blah blah blah, came out of a coma that lasted for an entire year, waking up as if nothing had happened... Wife was really happy, blah blah blah... "It's hard to describe" Chang said, "but I do feel different." Charlie starts to sneer as he reads. Julian is listening intently.
JULIAN: The Angel Of Vengeance.
(IN THAI): I'm the new guard. Please, go on in. Nadee looks at him suspiciously but enters the apartment with Kanita. Ko Sam pretends to go back to reading his Manga comic.
JENNA: I came here to collect my son's body. Now it's released, my business in Bangkok is completed.
KIM: When are you leaving?
JENNA: Tonight.
KIM: And your other son - is he going with you?
JENNA: I've had no real contact with Julian since he ran away.
KIM: You watched him fight. Jenna looks over to Chang.
JENNA: I watched him lose. And he deserved to. You were the better fighter. My only sadness is that Billy got caught up in what he's doing out here. And paid for it with his life. Kim and the rest of the crew take this in.
JENNA (CONT'D): I'll never testify against my own flesh and blood, Officer Chang. But he's a killer. Chang senses something. Starts to become agitated.
JENNA (CONT'D): ... It pains me to say it, but my own son is a killer. He killed a cop back in England ten years ago. He's been on the run ever since. I say son... But he hasn't been a son to me. Chang stares at the door to the bedroom. Feels the presence of someone the other side of the door.
JENNA (CONT'D): Not for a long time. Not since he killed that cop back home... That was ten years ago. He's been running ever since. And he'll never stop until he's caught. Until you catch him. Chang starts to push the door open... Behind him Jenna stands up. Before Chang fully opens the door, his mobile phone rings. It sounds INCREDIBLY loud. He takes it out and looks at the display with a feeling of dread. He answers...
(IN THAI): It's me... Did you change the guard?
(IN THAI): No.
(IN THAI): Someone else is out there now...
(IN THAI): Get out of the apartment...
(IN THAI): Hold on...
(IN THAI): Kanita - go to your room. But Kanita stands still - fear in her eyes.
(IN THAI): ... go to your room now. And slowly Kanita walks towards her room as Charlie Ling watches her... Kanita closes the door. Beat - silence... Julian stands up and walks toward Nadee - raises his shotgun and blows her head off. Blood spatters onto the wall, bits of brain and skull everywhere as her body falls to the ground...
CHARLIE LING: Wait... Julian turns back. Charlie Ling nods towards Kanita's room.
JULIAN: No way.
JULIAN: Who said? Beat.
JULIAN (CONT'D): My mother? Charlie Ling nods.
JULIAN (CONT'D): What kind of a mother says that?
CHARLIE LING: If you've got a problem, talk to her.
JULIAN: No. We're not doing it.
CHARLIE LING: You don't have to. I will. Charlie Ling kicks open the door. Julian realises he can't let him do it. And as Charlie Ling sees Kanita... Julian shoots him in the back. Charlie Ling slumps to the floor. Julian approaches the doorway. He looks in. Sees Kanita sitting on her bed. She stares at Julian, Charlie Ling's dead body at his feet. They hold each other's gaze... and then Julian slowly bows his head and leaves...
JULIAN: Only God forgives. And now mother - you will die... He rings the bell, raising the shotgun, ready to shoot. The door
OPENS -: - but it's Gordon who opens it, dressed in a bathrobe. Confused, Julian continues to level the weapon at his head. Gordon backs away into the room.
GORDON: Easy... Julian says nothing. Edges into the room. The gun still pointed at Gordon's head. Julian says nothing. Kicks the door closed with his foot.
JULIAN: Where's is she?
GORDON: She's gone... Picked up Billy's body... She's gone home. Finally Julian lowers the shotgun.
GORDON (CONT'D): Didn't she tell you? Julian sits down.
GORDON (CONT'D): You alright mate? D'you want something? Julian mumbles to himself... then turns to Gordon. Realisation dawning on him:
JULIAN: I'm so fucked...
GORDON: We're good mates aren't we? Beat. Julian's instantly suspicious...
JULIAN: ... Yeah.
GORDON: I'm sorry about this Julian. I wish there was another way... Gordon levels a pistol at Julian's head.
JULIAN: What did she say? What did she promise you?
GORDON: Don't make this harder-- GUNSHOT. A bullet RIPS through Julian's shoulder. He falls back on the car behind him setting off a chorus of car alarms. Gordon starts to walk round to deliver the killer blow.
GORDON (CONT'D): You've become a liability. You can see that, can't you? Julian looks at the wound. It's deep but he's not totally incapacitated. He pulls the shotgun out from under his shirt. It clatters to the floor.
GORDON (CONT'D): And now she wants me to take over. She wants me to be the favoured son. What am I supposed to say? Julian sinks to his knees, leaning over to pick up the shotgun. He's got seconds...
GORDON (CONT'D): I didn't want it to end like this. First I fuck your mother. Then I-- Gordon turns the corner - but Julian's in position. Two shots in quick succession. Both barrels fired at Gordon's chest. The force of the explosion FLINGS Gordon's body against the far wall of the car park. Dead instantly. Julian pulls himself up and stands there, the smoking shotgun acting as a makeshift crutch. He gazes at Gordon's steaming corpse, appalled by the turn of events...
(IN THAI): Mai. Some guy's out there asking for you. Mai finishes the last napkin and places it on the pile. She walks towards the exit, passing her Co-Worker...
(IN THAI): Don't forget it's supposed to be my break next.
MAI: What happened to you? Beat. Julian almost smiles.
JULIAN: I've got to get out of Bangkok. Didn't want to leave... He winces.
JULIAN (CONT'D): ... without saying goodbye.
MAI: Who did this to you? A pause.
JULIAN: My mother... She made me what I am. And now I've got nothing. And they're after me. Mai stares at him.
MAI: Come with me... Julian looks at her.
MAI (CONT'D): ...to Cambodia - we can hide there... You'll be safe there. Mai and Julian smile at each other. It's sweet. Innocent.
JULIAN: I got about twelve grand at the club... Should be enough to get us there. Set ourselves up. Disappear...
MAI: Now?
JULIAN: Right now. Mai looks around - they're alone.
MAI: Wait outside...
MAI: Let's go.
JULIAN: Stay here. If I'm not out in five minutes... Go. Mai nods.
MAI: Five minutes. Julian nods and slams the door shut. Mai watches Juilan disappear into the building.
CHANG: Let's go. We TRACK IN to a CLOSE SHOT on Julian. It's almost as if this moment was inevitable.
(IN THAI): Get up. Julian rolls over. Eyes Chang. Slowly he starts to get up onto his knees. They continue, Chang forcing Julian to crawl as they make their way further into the field. Then Chang stops...
(IN THAI): Get up. Now. Julian struggles to get up to his feet, but before he does, Chang kicks him hard in the chest, sending him back down to the floor.
JULIAN: I'm sorry...
(IN THAI): Do you have anything to say?
JULIAN: Don't hurt her. He kicks him in the stomach.
(IN THAI): Do you have anything to say?
JULIAN: I'm sorry... Chang kicks him again - like you would kick a dog... Juilan groans. Chang squats down next to him.
(IN THAI): What do you expect me to do?
JULIAN: I don't know... I'm sorry. Chang gets up and walks on. He stops and turns round.
(IN THAI): Come on. Julian stumbles to his feet. The party continue. We see that one of the crew is carrying an axe.
(IN THAI): When you were born - what's the first thing you remember seeing? A beat as Julian struggles to understand Chang's question... Chang stares at him.
(IN THAI): What do you remember? Beat.
JULIAN: Dark... Darkness. Chang looks at him in a strange way - like this answer has some meaning for him.
(IN THAI): And do you ever see light? Julian shakes he's head.
JULIAN: No... Never. Chang considers this answer for a long moment. He gets up and returns to Mai - stares at her....
(IN THAI): I am the Angel of Vengeance... I restore order and karma. I love all living things... Mai just stares at him - too frightened to move.
(IN THAI): ...I want you to walk away from here now... Do you understand? Mai nods.
(IN THAI): Good. Chang smiles at her.
(IN THAI): Go with God. Mai turns and leaves. Chang watches her disappear into the field. Chang takes the axe off Phaiban and turns back to Julian.
CHANG: Country roads, take me home to the place I belong West Virginia, mountain momma Take me home, country roads.. The Cops sit and watch him. Their leader... Their God...
CHANG: Country roads, take me home to the place I belong West Virginia, mountain momma Take me home, country roads Take me home, country roads Take me home, country roads And we end CLOSE on Chang. With the sense that the 'country roads' have kind of taken both of them home...
