Monica: I can't believe we've never done this before! It's sooo good! So
good for Monica! 
Chandler: Oh! Look at that, time's up! My turn!
Monica: That was a half an hour?
Chandler: It's your timer.
Monica: Y'know, I don't like to brag about it, but I give the best
massages!
Chandler: All right, then massage me up right nice!
Chandler: Ah! Ahh!! Ahh!!
Monica: It's so good, isn't it?
Chandler: It's so good I don't know what I've done to deserve it!
Monica: Say good-bye to sore muscles!
Chandler: Good-bye muscles!!
Joey: Chandler, if it really hurts that bad you should just tell her.
Chandler: Look, for the first time in my life I'm in a real relationship. Okay,
I'm not gonna screw that up by y'know, telling the truth.
Ross: (walking up with Rachel and carrying coffee) Hey.
Joey: Whoa, dude, look out! You almost crushed my hat! (He picks a hat up from
the floor. It's one of those magician stovepipe hats.)
Ross: Sorry.
Chandler: (examining the hat) And the bunny got away. (Turns and starts looking
for the bunny as Joey puts the hat on.)
Ross: (glaring at Joey) This would be the place where you explain the hat.
Joey: Oh! Yeah, look there's this play all right? And I'm up for the part of
this real cool like suave international guy. A real clothes horse. So I figure that
everyone at the audition is gonna be wearing this kinda y'know, ultra-hip, high fashion
stuff.
Chandler: And you're gonna make them all disappear.
Joey: Yeah, like you could find something as sophisticated as this.
Chandler: Done.
Rachel: Joey, if you wanna look good, why don't you just come down to the store?
I'll help you out.
Joey: Great! Thanks, Rach!
Rachel: Sure! (Pause) God, please take those off!
Joey: All right. 
Ross: Hey Pheebs, how's it going?
Chandler: Hey.
Phoebe: Hey! Umm, well, only okay because I just got back from, from the
hospital.
Rachel: What?
Ross: Is everything okay?
Joey: Are you all right?
Phoebe: Oh yeah, no-no-no. I'm fine. I'm okay, but umm, my Grandma sorta died.
Joey: Pheebs! Sorry!
Phoebe: It's okay, I mean she had a really incredible life. And it's not like
I'm never gonna see her again, y'know she's gonna visit.
Rachel: Well maybe, maybe she's with us right now?
Phoebe: Yeah, her first day on a new spiritual plane and she's gonna come to the
coffeehouse!
Monica: (entering, in a hurry) Guys! Guys! I just saw two people having sex in a
car right outside.
Ross: Uhh, Pheebs' Grandmother just died.
Monica: Ohh my God, I'm so sorry.
Phoebe: It's okay. Actually y'know what, it's kinda cool. 'Cause it's like
y'know, one life ends and another begins.
Monica: (to the guys) Not the way they're doing it. What, what happened? How did
she die?
Phoebe: Well umm, okay we were in the market and she bent down to get some
yogurt and she just never came back up again.
Joey: Pheebs, I'm so sorry.
Phoebe: It was really sweet. The last thing she said to me was; "Okay dear,
you go get the eggs and I'm gonna get the yogurt and we'll meet at the checkout
counter." And y'know what? We will meet at the checkout counter.
Rachel: Okay now Joey, y'know that since you're returning all of this stuff
right after the audition you're gonna have to wear underwear?
Joey: All right, then you'd better show me some of that too then.
Rachel: Okay, it's missing something. Ooh, I know! Umm, okay. (Goes and grabs a
bag, that looks like a purse, and shows it to Joey.)
Joey: Really? A purse?
Rachel: It's not a purse! It's a shoulder bag.
Joey: It looks like a women's purse.
Rachel: No Joey, look. Trust me, all the men are wearing them in the spring
catalog. Look. (Shows him.) See look, men, carrying the bag.
Joey: See look, women, carrying the bag. (He puts it on his shoulder and
looks at himself in the mirror and likes what he sees.) But it is odd how a women's purse
looks good on me, a man.
Rachel: Exactly! Unisex!
Joey: Maybe you need sex. I had sex a couple days ago.
Rachel: No! No Joey! U-N-I-sex.
Joey: Well, I ain't gonna say no to that.
Ursula: Who is it?
Phoebe: It's Phoebe.
Ursula: Oh great! (Opens the door.) (Disappointed) Oh, you. Umm, what's up?
Phoebe: Umm, well I sorta have some bad news, can I come in?
Phoebe: Umm, well, umm Grandma died.
Ursula: Wow! Didn't she die like five years ago?
Phoebe: No, she just died today! Okay, umm, we're having a memorial service
tomorrow.
Ursula: Okay, I know that I went to that all ready.
Phoebe: No you didn't!
Ursula: Well, then who's been dead for five years?
Phoebe: Well, lots of people! Look, are you coming to memorial service or not?
Phoebe: Fine. Okay, enjoy your concert. (Starts to leave.)
Ursula: Thanks! Enjoy your funeral.
Joey: Hey!
Chandler: Hey!
Chandler: Wow! You look just like your son Mrs. Tribbiani!
Joey: What? Are you referring to my man's bag? At first, I thought it just
looked good, but it's practical too. Check it out! It's got compartments for all your
stuff! Your wallet! Your keys! Your address book!
Ross: Your make-up!
Rachel: (entering) Joey, what are you doing with the bag? You're audition is not
until tomorrow.
Joey: Yeah, but sandwich time is right now. (Removes a sandwich and starts
eating.)
Rachel: Joey, y'know you get any mustard on that bag, you can't return it.
Joey: Why would I return it? I love this bag!
Rachel: All right, then you owe me $350.
Joey: Fine! Do you take Vasa or Mustercard? (He's holding the fake credit cards
that come with the bag.)
Joey: All right relax, look I'll pay you with the money from the acting job I am
definitely gonna get thanks to you.
Ross: What's the part, Anti-man?
Rachel: Hey, don't listen to them. I think it's sexy.
Joey: U-N-I-sexy? (Smiles provocatively.) 
Phoebe: Well hello, Mrs. Penella! Thank you so much for coming! Well, okay look,
here's your umm, 3-D glasses and Reverend Pong will tell you when to put them on.
Rachel: Hi sweetie!
Ross: Hey, how are you holding up?
Joey: Hey Pheebs, I'm so sorry.
Phoebe: (notices his bag.) Hey, y'know what? My Grandma had the exact same bag!
Joey: Here, I brought you some flowers. (He pulls them out of the bag.)
Phoebe: Thanks!
Chandler: Pulling flowers out it makes the bag look a lot more masculine.
Man: Oops, I'm sorry. Excuse me. Is this the umm, the memorial?
Phoebe: Yeah, welcome.
Man: Hello. Hello.
Phoebe: Umm here's your 3-D glasses.
Man: Oh, umm, all right.
Phoebe: So how did you know Francis?
Man: Well I actually, I-I really, I haven't seen her for years. But umm, well I-I
was pretty tight with-with her and her daughter.
Phoebe: Really?! What's your name?
Man: Umm, Frank Buffay. 
Frank Sr.: (Seeing the look on her face) Y'know what? Strike that. My name uh,
actually is-is Joe. Uh, Joe umm, Hill.
Phoebe: You're Frank Buffay?
Frank Sr.: Shh! (Whispers) No! Joe Hill!
Frank Sr.: Y'know what, I gotta go. And thank you so much for coming.
(Hands back his glasses and hurries out.)
Phoebe: Oh my God!
Monica: What?! What honey?
Ross: What happened?
Phoebe: That was my dad!
Chandler: Oh my God!
Joey: (approaches, wearing his glasses) Hey you guys, check it out. Check it
out. (Moves his hand towards and away from his face.) It's like it's coming right at me.
(Chandler helps out a little bit by pushing on Joey's arm, which causes his hand to slap
him in his face.)
Monica: Oh, did you catch him?!
Phoebe: Uh-huh.
Ross: Wh-what did he say?!
Phoebe: He said, "Nice to meet you Glenda." (They stare at her,
dumbfounded) Well, obviously I couldn't give him my real name?
Rachel: Why?! Why not?!
Phoebe: Come on, you saw the way he ran out of here! What do you think? He's
gonna stick around and talk to the daughter he abandoned!
Joey: What did you say to him?
Phoebe: Well, I said, I told him y'know, that I was the executor person of
Francis' will and that I needed to talk to him so I'm gonna meet him at the coffee house
later.
Phoebe: All right, well, I just can't think about that right now. I just wanna
say good-bye to my Grandma.
Rachel: Okay.
Monica: All right, let's go say good-bye.
Joey: (entering, with bag) Hey! I'm off to my audition. How do I look?
Rachel: Ahhh, I think you look great! That bag is gonna get you that
part.
Chandler: And a date with a man!
Joey: Y'know what? Make fun all you want. This is a great bag! Okay? And
it's as handy as it is becoming. Now, just because you don't understand something, doesn't
make it wrong. All right? So from now on you guys are gonna have to get used to the fact
that Joey, (pats the bag) comes with a bag! (Exits.)
Phoebe: All right, I'd better go too. I have to go talk to my dad.
Rachel: Ooh, Pheebs, what are you gonna say? Are you gonna tell him who you are?
Phoebe: Umm, no, not at first 'cause I-I don't want to freak him out
Ross: Well, but aren't you pissed at him?! I mean this guy abandoned you!
I gotta tell you if this were me, this guy would be in some serious physical danger!
(Getting worked up) I mean I-I-I'd walk in there and I'd be like, "Yo, dad! You and
me outside right now!" (Calming down.) I kinda scared myself.
Monica: Well, at least you scared someone.
Phoebe: Y'know it's funny, you'd think I'd be angry. I mean, you'd think
I'd wanna rip his tiny little head off. Fortunately, I'm past it.
Monica: Phoebe, you do seem a little tense. Here, let me help you. 
Phoebe: All right.
Phoebe: Oh! Get off!! Ow!! Oh, stop it!! Why?! Why are you doing that to me?!
Monica: What are you talking about?
Phoebe: As a masseuse and a human, I'm begging you, never do that to anyone!
Monica: (indignant) I give good massages! (Ross laughs.) I used to give them to
Rachel all the time before she got allergic! And-and-and Chandler loves them! Watch! (She
starts giving Chandler a massage.)
Phoebe: (seeing the look on Chandler's face) He-he does not like it! He hates
it! He's in pain!
Monica: No he's not!
Chandler: (wincing) Yes, he is!
Monica: What?!
Chandler: I'm sorry but, ow-owww-owww!
Monica: You've been lying to me? I can't believe you'd do that.
Ross: Well, maybe he just didn't want to hurt your feelings.
Joey: (reading from the script) Well, you must be new here. Why don't we get a
table and I'll buy you a drink.
Joey: Well, first it's not a purse.
Joey: I mean if-if you're thinking it's a woman's bag, it's not. It's a man's
bag!
Joey: All right look, let me show you the catalog! (Does so.) See? Huh? It's the
latest thing! Everyone's got one! Men! Women! Children! Everyone's carrying them!
Joey: Noooo. No-no-no, these babies sell themselves.
Joey: Okay! All right, I'll see ya. (As he's walking off stage.) (Patting the
bag.) We got it! We got it!
Chandler: Hey, is Rachel here?
Monica: No.
Chandler: (coming all the way in) Listen, I just wanted to apologize about this
afternoon and the whole massage thing. Y'know? I-I really like 'em.
Chandler: (falling into that trap) I don't like your massages.
Monica: (starting to cry) See? It's no big deal.
Chandler: Okay, but now see you're crying!
Monica: I'm not crying about that! I'm crying about something that happened at
work.
Chandler: What?
Monica: (bursting into tears) My boyfriend said he didn't like my massages.
Chandler: It's okay, you don't have to be the best at everything.
Monica: Oh my God! You don't know me at all!
Chandler: Okay, you give the worst massages in the world.
Monica: I'm crying here!!
Chandler: Okay, hear me out. Okay? You give the best bad massages. If
anybody was looking for the best bad massage and they were thinking to themselves,
"Who's the best of that?" They'd have to go to you.
Monica: Huh. So you're saying like umm, if there was an award for the best bad
massage, well who would get that?
Chandler: Oh, it would be you! You! Monica! And you'd get all the votes!
Monica: So maybe they could umm, call the award the Monica?
Chandler: Absolutely!
Monica: Okay. I suck!
Chandler: Yeah! (They hug.)
Phoebe: Umm, thank you for meeting with me.
Frank Sr.: Thank you. All right.
Frank Sr.: Oh yes. Yes, yes, I am, uh-hmm.
Phoebe: Okay.
Frank Sr.: So, what did Francis leave me?
Phoebe: Huh?
Frank Sr.: Well, that's why you wanted me to come, right?
Phoebe: Okay. I have just a few questions to ask so I'm going to get out my
official forms. (She picks up a couple of crumpled receipts.) Okay, so, question 1) You
and uh, you were married to Francis' daughter Lilly, is that correct?
Frank Sr.: Yes, yes I was.
Phoebe: Okay, umm, question 2) Umm, did that marriage end A. Happily, B. Medium,
or C. In the total abandonment of her and her two children?
Frank Sr.: It really says that?!
Phoebe: Yeah. See? (Quickly shows him.)
Frank Sr.: Well then I guess then I-I would I would have to say C.
Phoebe: Hmm, okay, total abandonment. Okay, reasons for abandonment, A.
Top secret government work, B. Amnesia, or C. Or you're just a selfish, irresponsible bad,
bad man?
Phoebe: What?!
Frank Sr.: Well Lilly, when you see Lilly would you give her that, that note?
Because I wanted to talk to her at the memorial but, well I pictured her getting mad at me
the way you got mad at me and I well, I chickened out. So, uh, I wrote her that note,
would you give it to her please?
Phoebe: But you-you-you came to see Lilly?
Frank Sr.: Yeah, yeah. Why?
Phoebe: Lilly's dead. (He looks up in shock.)
Frank Sr.: She what?!
Phoebe: She's dead.
Frank Sr.: Are you sure?
Phoebe: Well, if she isn't then cremating her was a big mistake.
Phoebe: 17 years ago.
Frank Sr.: Oh! What about, what about the girls?
Phoebe: Well, Ursula is a waitress and-and she lives in Soho. And Phoebe,
(pause) is on this couch.
Phoebe: Yep, lipstick and a daughter, big day for you!
Phoebe: Yes. Well, that's neither here nor there.
Frank Sr.: So would it, would it make you feel better if I said I was very, very
sorry that I left?
Frank Sr.: All right. Well, y'know in my defense I was a lousy father.
Phoebe: That's a defense?
Frank Sr.: Yes. Yes it is. I burned the formula and I put your diapers on
backwards. I mean, I made up a song to sing you to sleep, but that made you cry even more!
Phoebe: You make up songs?
Frank Sr.: Well no, just-just that one. But, it was stupid. Let's see, how did
it, how did it go. Umm. (Singing.) 
Phoebe: Well, I am. (Moves over and takes his hand.)
Phoebe: Not yet, no. (Drops his hand and moves back.)
Joey: (dejected) Hi.
All: Hey!
Chandler: Hey man, how did the audition go?
Joey: Estelle said I didn't get it. (Sits down next to Rachel on the couch.)
Rachel: What?! Why? Joey you were so ready for it!
Joey: Yeah, I thought so too but, she said the casting people had some problems
with me.
Ross: What kind of problem?
Joey: Well to tell you the truth, they uh, (Pause) they had a problem with the
bag!
Chandler: Oh my God!
Ross: Nooooo!
Joey: Y'know what? It was a stupid play anyway!
Monica: Y'know, Joey, I think it's time to give up the bag.
Joey: I don't wanna give up the bag. I don't have to give up the bag! Do I Rach?
(She's avoiding his eyes.) Oh, you think I should give up the bag!
Chandler: Oh, hey! (Ross nods in agreement as well.)
Joey: I can't believe I'm hearing this!
Chandler: Yeah umm, they're called wallets.