Ross: Look I was going to tell you!
Chandler: What?
Phoebe: (overdoing it) Oh my God!!
Monica: Ross!
Chandler: Okay, let me just jump in and ask, at what point did you think this was a successful marriage?
Phoebe: Okay, this is inexcusable. I am shocked to my very core!
Ross: Phoebe, I told her you already knew.
Phoebe: Another lie. You have a sickness!
Joey: Na-uh! (To everyone there) Hey did anybody lose their keys?
Chandler: You left a shoe here?!
Joey: Great! Thanks. (Exits.)
Phoebe: (coming in from the bathroom) Oh, good, good, you guys are here! Listen, how would like to spend tomorrow taking care of three incredibly cute little puppies?!
Monica: Oh my God, what a fun day! That sounds great!
Chandler: (not enthused) Yeah, all right.
Chandler: Whoa-whoa-whoa! What?
Guy #1: Nice car!
Woman: (walking up) I love your car.
Joey: Me too! Yeah. And comfortable. Do uh, do you like leather seats?
Woman: Yeah!
Rachel: Well, maybe-maybe I could be your roommate Pheebs.
Phoebe: Maybe you could be my roommate!
Phoebe: Yeah!
Rachel: That would be great! Wait, how long is Denise gone for?
Rachel: (deadpan) Oh look who it is, my husband. The apple of my eye.
Ross: What about the time I said we were on a break?
Rachel: Ugh! (Stares at him.)
Phoebe: Na-uh, no, we are all responsible for our own babies.
Monica: What do you mean?
Phoebe: That sounds really great, but maybe you should be in charge of wiping.
Monica: This is so great! This is exactly how we set the plates at the restaurant.
Phoebe: Yeah? (Checking the final diaper) Well this is not what I ordered.
Joey: (entering) Hey guys!
Chandler: Hey!
Phoebe: Hey!
Chandler: Shocking! Since you still have the keys.
Chandler: What equity investments?
Monica: Oh yeah, I got soap and sponges and rags and Carnuba wax and polishing compound.
Monica: I know. But umm, one time there was this really dirty car in front of the building, so I washed it.
Chandler: And?
Monica: And six others.
Chandler: There you are.
Joey: Yeah, she tops out at 130.
Guy #2: Wow!
Guy #2: Really! You got a place upstate?
Joey: Sure!
Joey: Okay, take it easy.
Joey: Really? Oh uh, oh just give me five more minutes with it.
Joey: Why not?
Joey: Yeah, so did I.
Chandler: (entering) Check it out! Check it out! When the babies wake up, they can meet Krog! (He holds up this Xena-like warrior action figure.)
Chandler: He can do more than that! He can destroy the universe!
Phoebe: What?!
Chandler: Glass, sand, whatever. (Walks out as Monica and Phoebe turn to check on the babies again.)
Phoebe: Oh, look at little Leslie stretching in her sleep.
Phoebe: Oh, I can still do that.
Monica: How are you still single?!
Monica: Good. What made you change your mind?
Chandler: I swallowed the sonic blaster gun.
Phoebe: How did that happen?!!
Judge: Okay you two are asking the court for an annulment?
Rachel: Yes your honor, and here are, are forms, all filled out.
Judge: So based on your petition you are seeking an annulment on the grounds that Mr. Geller is mentally unstable.
Judge: And based on the fact that Mr. Geller is intravenous drug user.
Ross: What?!
Rachel: Uh yes, heroin and crack.
Rachel: Well, you would know.
Judge: Now it also says here that you lied about your sexual preference before marriage?
Ross: Oh, come on!
Rachel: (starts to cry) Ross, please, I found the magazines!
Ross: And when we were dating we consummated like bunnies!
Rachel: Ugh!
Judge: Now if you were two involved in a serious relationship, that really creates a problem.
Rachel: Ross! Your honor, rest assured relationship ended like two years ago! (To the stenographer) And could you strike "Consummated like bunnies" from the record?
Judge: Is there, anything in this record that is actually true?
Rachel: Well, yes, we got married in Vegas and uh, and the names I think.
Rachel: (stands up as well) What?! Me?! What about you and your consummated like bunnies nonsense!
Judge: You need to get out of my chambers.
Rachel: All right look lady here is the deal, I came here for an annulment and I am not leaving here until I get one!
Ross: Yeah!
Judge: Would you like to spend the night in jail?
Rachel: And thank you for your time. (They both beat a hasty retreat.)
Joey: (entering wearing nothing but Porsche clothes) So the Porsche guy took his car back.
Chandler: But you found the keys to his clothes?
Joey: No. No, I just uh, I just loved the way it feels when everybody thinks I own a Porsche.
Chandler: That is true.
Phoebe: Yeah, but only a genius would swallow a sonic blaster gun.
Joey: (to women passing him) Porsche.
Rachel: This is totally your fault!
Ross: My fault?! You threatened the judge!
Ross: That was the only way I could get him to stop typing!
Joey: Hi! How are the Gellers? 
Chandler: (entering) Hey!
Phoebe: (exhausted) How do you feel?
Chandler: And protected them from a tornado?
Monica: Oh my God.
Phoebe: I know, the babies are asleep.
Monica: Phoebe, what, what happened here?!
Phoebe: I did it! I took care of the babies all by myself!
Monica: But my apartment!
Monica: But the mess!
Chandler: Is not as important as the fact that Phoebe took care of the babies all by herself.
Chandler: (pause) Phoebe, would you take a look at this mess!!!!
Rachel: Oh, name one stupid thing that is as stupid as this one!
Ross: Okay, how about you flew to London to stop my wedding! Ah, how about you told me you loved me after I was already married!
Rachel: Hey! Wait a minute! That was different! I did those things because I was in love with you!
Ross: Yeah! Right!
Rachel: Nothing. (Sits down.)
Ross: Okay, can we just sign please?
Rachel: Uh-hmm. (Just as Rachel finishes signing her name, Ross yanks each page out of the way.)
Ross: Congratulations. (Gets up to leave.)
Ross: What?
Ross: Excuse me?
Rachel: Well, remember how we were too drunk to remember anything the night we were married?
Ross: Yeah?
Ross: Did I, did I even treat?
Rachel: No, it was on the house, it was, it was a newlywed special.
Rachel: Hey, thanks Ross, for taking care of all of this.
Ross: Eh, no problem.
Ross: Totally. (Exits.)
Joey: Hey! Hey! Be careful around my Porsche! 
Woman: (the same one from before approaches) Hi Joey.
Woman: (to her friend) He has the most amazing Porsche under there!