Chandler: Let me ask you, why is everybody using these tiny lights nowadays? I remember when people used to use big lights.
Ross: Hey
All: Hey
Monica: Oh, here.
Chandler: See now it feels like Christmas!
Rachel: So, pretty much around the same time that you started telling this story.
Joey: Hey you guys.
Joey: I like her so much!
Janine: Hey guys!
Ross: Hi Janine!
Monica: Oh my God! We love that show! I mean Ross and I have been watching it since I can remember!
Janine: Well they said I should bring someone. (To Joey) Do you wanna be my dance partner?
Ross: Oh, well you see how it works is, the part with Dick Clark in Times Square is actually live, but they tape some of the party stuff ahead of time. Yeah, not a lot of people know that.
Janine: Yeah well, do you guys wanna come too?
Ross: Are you serious?
Monica: We are there!
Chandler: What, what are you laughing at?
Janine: Thanks. (To Monica and Ross) Great so we can all go together! I gotta run. Catch you later!
All: Bye!
Ross: Bye Janine!
Joey: Did she just ask me out on a date?
Monica: What are you talking about? She just invited him to the biggest party of the millennium!
Ross: It was a dry day.
Ross: Oh my God!
Monica: Oh my God!
Chandler: (To Rachel) Oh my God!
Ross: Got it!
Director: OK, everyone gather up.
Ross: Yeah, I have a question. When is this gonna air?
Director: Uh, yeah. Now you guys dance over there, you guys over there, and I want you two right around here, and everyone else spread out.
Joey: Ross! So when is it gonna air?
Rachel: Okay, you look in the kitchen, I will look in the back closet.
Rachel: We are looking for our Christmas presents from Monica.
Phoebe: No-no, we do it every year!
Chandler: Oh well, that makes it not terrible.
Phoebe: But we have to!
Phoebe: Well then, you should look with us.
Chandler: Why?
Chandler: No, I have a great idea for a present for her.
Phoebe: Ooh ooh, we have a live one!
Phoebe: Uh-oh. She may be onto us.
Rachel: We are so gonna find them this year.
Rachel: Yeah.
Monica: Okay, here comes another camera.
Ross: Right. No biggie. Stay loose.
Ross: Why do they keep doing that?
Ross: Right.
Girl: We learned how to dance.
Monica: Oh yeah? Well when you learned how to dance did you forget how to put on underpants?
Ross: Yeah!
Joey: Really?
Joey: What do you mean?
Janine: Like this.
Joey: Uh-huh.
Joey: No-no-no-no-no we came together!
Joey: No-no hey buddy, please let me dance with that girl, I really like her and I think I have a shot.
Chandler: I couldn't find anything at Joey--Hey-hey, oh hey!
Rachel: Yeah, we found them. There were in the guest room closet behind some coats.
Phoebe: Yeah, and you have nothing to worry about 'cos they're all crap!
Chandler: Those are my gifts, I got them for you.
Phoebe: Ohhh. Thanks Chandler they're great!
Rachel: Well Chandler, what is this very weird, metal A Z thing?
Chandler: Those are book ends! That's a great gift!
Phoebe: Oh, okay, I'm sorry, thank you for my azzz. 
Rachel: Ha!
Chandler: Make sure you put all that stuff back in the closet, okay?
Rachel: Yes, okay, oh, by the way, I just gotta say, I think it's really nice of you that even after you've moved, you still keep storing that stuff for Joey!
Joey: Hey-hey dancer girl! Can I go to the bathroom? I just.. (The girl starts dancing really close to him, so he picks her up, twirls her round, and puts her against a platform) Here we go. (He walks away to find Monica and Ross doing a really out of place dance) Looking good Gellers!
Ross: We know!
Ross: Okay.
Director: Okay, everybody hold!
Ross: Monica! (Pause) Would it?
Tall Guy: Look, are you dating this girl you came with?
Tall Guy: God! What are you, in second grade?
Monica: What?
Ross: The routine!
Monica: Was it really that good?
Monica: 5 6 7 8!
Director: Oh no! You get up there and do that again exactly like that!
Monica: Yes! (They run over to a platform)
Tall Guy: Hey, pal, you have about three seconds to get away from my partner.
Joey: Yeah, take a hike wetpants!
Ross: No!
Monica: Me too!
All: Three, Two, One!
Director: Cut!
Joey: No! Year! Happy No Year!
Phoebe: Hey! Look who I found!
Chandler: Oh, hey guys!
Chandler: Yes, if the presents are hidden south for the winter.
Phoebe: Hmm, how about my azzz?
Rachel: Hey, this is hollow.
Phoebe: What?
Chandler: What?
Phoebe: Alright, no, we could look at them!
Chandler: Oh great!
Chandler: Okay! Okay! Okay!
Phoebe: Hee hee!
Phoebe: Will you get us better gifts?
Chandler: Fine!
Monica: Hey guys! You found the presents? Chandler, you let them find the presents? Great! Do you know how long it took me to find you that water purifier?
Phoebe: Oh yes, I see what you mean. That look is priceless.
Janine: Joey.
Joey: Yeah?
Janine: (She takes his hands) 3, 2, 1. (She kisses him) Happy New Year.
Joey: Oh, yoii. What was that for?
Joey: Really? In the moment, I really wanted to kiss you too. In the moment.
Janine: In the moment, yeah.
Joey: But only in the moment. So do ya wanna kiss again?
Joey: No.
Janine: Me neither.
Joey: 3, 2, 
Joey: Uh, yeah, okay. Except I sorta felt like I needed a couple of seconds to get ready.
Rachel: Uh, wait, so you guys are telling me you actually did the routine from eighth grade?
Monica: Yeah. But of course we had to update it a little bit. (To Ross) Hey, by the way, great thinking about catching me!
Monica: What? We could do it!