Phoebe: (she stops reading from the script) Oh my God.
Joey: What?
Phoebe: I am extremely talented!
Phoebe: (interrupting) No, I mean I was really acting my ass off.
Joey: Yeah, I thought I was pretty good too.
Rachel: So Mac and C.H.E.E.S.E.
Chandler: That is lucky.
Chandler: Now-now, why would you say that Joseph?
Phoebe: I am.
Joey: You really think so?
Rachel: Ugh, how can you even ask that question?!
Joey: (on stage in an Austrian accent) Vell, Eva, ve've done some excellent vork here, and I vould have to say, your pwoblem is qviiite clear. (He goes into a song and dance number.) 
Phoebe: (overacting with a song this time) (singing) Gooood luck! Gooood luck! We all wish you good luuuuuuuuck!!!
Joey: Yeah, whatever. (Exits.)
Chandler: Oh, are we playing this?!
Joey: (entering, dejectedly) Hey.
Joey: Yeah, did I fool ya?
Ross: Totally!
Chandler: So it did go well.
Joey: Oh, it went amazingly well!
Ross: Great!
Chandler: Oh my God!
Ross: Wow!
Ross: Oh, I love that guy! (Laughs.)
Chandler: Oh-oh, what are you doing?
Ross: (stops laughing) What am I doing?
Chandler: Well, it is overdue.
Ross: Yeah, none of us have to deal with pressure at our jobs.
Chandler: (on phone) Yes, Fran. I know what time it is, but I'm looking at the WENUS and I'm not happy!
Ross: You ate my sandwich?
Ross: (getting upset) Oh-oh really? 
Ross: (jumping to his feet in anger) What?
Ross: You-you-you-you (trying to remain in control) threw my sandwich away!
Ross: MY SANDWICH!!!!!! (Ross's scream scares a flight of pigeons away.)
Chandler: (looks down at his clothes) Am I naked again?!
Chandler: Yeah okay, I was just talking to the guys. Just look at them I mean, is it okay if they come visit?
Monica: Wh?! What about my allergies?!
Chandler: Oh right, your allergies. (Monica leaves and to the chick and duck) All her, she hates you. (Chandler leaves without finishing the message for Joey.)
Joey: Yes!! Ha-ha!! All right! Hey! How cool would it be if you could watch like a real life-sized version of this? Huh? I mean how crazy would that be?
Chandler: As crazy as soccer?
Joey: The allergy guy got the part! Thanks!
Joey: Name one!
Chandler: (lets him out) What happened?!!
Chandler: Ok, now, remember, no trading. You get the pretty one, I get the mess.
Lorraine: Hi, Joey. (Sees Chandler.) Well well, look what you brought.
Chandler: ...And what did you bring?
Lorraine: She's checking the coats. Joey, I'm gonna go wash the cab smell off my hands. Will you get me a white Zinfandel, and a glass of red for Janice.
Chandler: Janice?
Chandler: Janice?!
Janice: Oh.... my.... God.
Chandler: Joey's tailor...took advantage of me.
Ross: What?
Ross: What?
Chandler: Cupping.
Ross: Yes, yes it is. In prison!
Joey: I said name one!
Rachel: Of course he will! But Chandler the most important thing is you forgive yourself!
Ross: It took two people to break up this relationship!!
Rachel: Yeah! You and that girl from that copy place, which yesterday you took full responsibility for!!
Rachel: What?!!
Ross: I fell asleep!
Rachel: (mocking him) You fell asleep?!
Ross: (starts to cry) FINE BY ME!! (he opens the door and traps Chandler behind it)
Chandler: (coming out from behind the door) I KNEW IT!!!!
Monica: You had no right to go out with him.
Rachel: That is the most ridiculous...
Monica: You sold me out.
Rachel: I did not sell you out.
Rachel: Would you let me talk. [flicks Monica on the forehead]
Monica: Did you just flick me?
Rachel: OK, well, you wouldn't let me finish and I was jus- [Monica flicks her back] Ow. That hurt [flicks Monica]
Phoebe: OK, now I'm gonna kick some ass.
Phoebe: Alright, now I will let go if you both stop.
Rachel: Fine!
Monica: Fine!
Phoebe: There we go.You know what, if we were in prison, you guys would be, like, my bitches.
Joey: Okay, buddy-boy. Here it is. You hide my clothes, I'm wearing everything you own.
Joey: Look at me! I'm Chandler! Could I be wearing any more clothes? Maybe if I wasn't going commando...
Joey: Yeah. Whew, it's hot with all of this stuff on. I ah, I better not do any, I don't know, lunges. (starts doing lunges)
Joey: Hey!
Chandler: Please tell me you got the message!
Joey: What message?
Joey: Well you-you-you-you might say congratulations! I saw the board! I went to the audition! I got the part!!
Chandler: (angrily) Is that supposed to be funny! I was really worried over here!
Chandler: Oh, we could do this all day.
Joey: You hug me!
Chandler: All right!
Joey: Hey, do we do this too much?
Chandler: I think so. Yeah, get off me.
Joey: Yeah.
Ross: There was just an explosion, okay? My hearing would be impaired. 
Phoebe: Yeah?
Ross: Totally.