Monica: Yeah.
Ross: Sure. Yeah.
Phoebe: Well, his name is Parker and I met him at the drycleaners.
Chandler: Oooh, did he put a little starch in your bloomers? (Sits up) Who said that?
Monica: (To Ross) Oh, by the way. Would it be okay if I gave the toast to mom and dad this year?
Ross: Uh, yeah, you sure you want to after what happened at their 20th?
Chandler: And you wonder why Ross is their favorite?
Monica: Really you can do that?
Chandler: What are you doing?
Monica: The good stuff, huh?
Rachel: Hi!
Ross: Hey!
Joey: Hey!
Joey: Yeah, yeah, in honor of their 35th wedding anniversary, I had a star named after them. 
Ross: Aww that is so cool.
Joey: And I got them a book on Karma Sutra for the elderly.
Rachel: Hey, do you guys have any extra ribbon?
Chandler: Yeah, sure. What do you need? We got lace, satin, sateen, raffia, gingham, felt, (Pause) and I think my testacles may be in here too.
Monica: What?!
Ross: You were the 200-pound 11-year-old who rode her!
Phoebe: Hey!
All: Hi!
Chandler: Ha!
Parker: (laughs) Classic Ross. Rachel, Rachel, oh how you glow. May I? (Puts hand on her stomach)
Rachel: I, uh, think you already are.
Monica: Okay, I got my note cards. (To Chandler) Do you got the presents? 
Chandler: Yeah.
Monica: Yeah.
Parker: Aces!
Ross: So uh, he seems like a nice guy.
Rachel: Yeah, yeah I like him a lot.
Ross: Ya wanna hang back and take our own cab?
Ross: Hi! (Kisses his mom.) Hey mom.
Rachel: This is such a great party! 35 years. Very impressive, do you guys have any pearls of wisdom? 
Woman: (To Ross and Rachel) Congratulations you two!
Woman: And also, congratulations on your wedding.
Ross: Can you believe that?
Ross: No, us having to lie about being married.
Woman: Ross!
Man: Rachel!
Ross: Hi Aunt Lisa, Uncle Dan
Aunt Lisa: Congratulations on the baby, and on the wedding
Rachel: (looking at the check) Unbelievable!
Ross: We love marriage!
Aunt Lisa: Great!
Ross: Hey
Phoebe: Hey!
Parker: Come on!
Chandler: Somewhere there is someone with a tranquilizer gun and a huge butterfly net looking for that man.
Monica: He called the Long Island Expressway a concrete miracle.
Phoebe: Were you guys making fun of Parker?
Ross: That depends, how much did you hear?
Monica: I feel terrible.
Joey: I know
Ross: What was wrong with Mona?
Rachel: Open it! Open it! Open it!
Ross: Yeah baby!
Man: So we never got to hear about your wedding!
Ross: No, no, it was just our parents and 1 or 2 friends. It was a small wedding.
Rachel: But it was beautiful. I mean it was small, but kind of spectacular.
Man: Where did you have it?
Woman: Really? 
Woman: Oh my God. That sounds amazing. I would love to see pictures.
Ross: Okay, okay. Ooooh, ooh maybe I rode in on a Harley. 
Rachel: Okay, Ross, it has to be realistic.
Parker: Are you okay? You seem kind of quiet.
Phoebe: Hm huh, yeah.
Parker: Ah! Oysters! Let me feed you one.
Parker: Please.
Parker: No, they look too weird.
Chandler: Ya know if you want to, I can just hold them down and you could (Punches the air).
Rachel: And my veil was lace, made by blind, Belgium nuns.
Woman: Blind?
Rachel: Well, not at first, but it was very intricate work and they said even though they lost their sight, it was all worth it.
Woman: (To Ross) So, how did you propose?
Aunt Lisa: Oh that is so sweet!
Rachel: Shhh! I want to hear the rest!
Ross: Then, Fred Astaire singing The Way You Look Tonight came on the sound system, and the lights came down. And I got down on one knee and written across the dome in the stars were the words "Will you marry me?"
Rachel: And the ring, was the size of my fist (makes a fist)!
Phoebe: Then you better do it now.
Joey: Why?
Joey: What-what? 
Phoebe: You think?
Joey: Yeah. Ya know what I think; I think we were all just being too negative.
Joey: Actually, you have a little bit of an edge.
Phoebe: Oooh I love it!
Parker: You do?!
Phoebe: Are you kidding? People acting like animals to music. Come on!
Parker: My God what a fantastically well lit hallway!
Phoebe: Can I get you something to drink? Like a water and Valium? 
Phoebe: Oh thank God. 
Parker: I love games!
Parker: I lose, now Jenga.
Phoebe: Oh my God! Oh my God! 
Parker: Is something wrong?
Parker: Well, excuse me for putting a good spin on a traffic jam!
Phoebe: No! I am a positive person. You are like Santa Clause on Prozac, at Disneyland, getting laid! 
Parker: So what do you want me to do, you want me to be more negative, less happy?
Phoebe: Much less happy!
Phoebe: Uh huh. (Closes door)
Rachel: It was really fun being married to you tonight. 
Rachel: Okay Ross, can I uh, can I ask you something?
Ross: Yeah.
Ross: I know, I know it was stupid. 
Rachel: Goodnight
Rachel: I will think about it. 
Monica: Oh, come on. 
Monica: (starts to cry) Oh good God, Ross! How the hell do you do it? 