Ross: So you said yes to him, and you just had our baby?
Rachel: That is right and traditionally the daddy is supposed to give  the mummy a present but I am prepared to let that go.
Ross: So when I came in here to see if you wanted to maybe start  things up again, you were engaged to my best friend.
Rachel: Ooooo!
Monica: (looking at Chandler sleeping with a balloon in his mouth) So  sexy. (Waking him up.) Honey.
Chandler: Yea yea. (Pulls the balloon out of his mouth)
Chandler: No, no, Ross and Rachel will be back soon and then I gotta  go to the office (Pulls another balloon out of his mouth) Am I producing  them?
Rachel: (enters with Emma) Hi!
Everyone: Hi, welcome home!
Monica: Phoebe did the signs!
Rachel: Oh you guys thanks for doing this.
Phoebe: Look at all the stuff people sent!
Joey: Is he still mad at us?
Chandler: Hey, what do I know? I wanted to get a bigger gorilla.
Chandler: Walter (nods).
Monica: Phoebe! But I could take one of those little feet and put it  in a pita pocket.
Ross: (enters from the bed room) Okay I put most of the stuff  away.
Rachel: Oh great, the pacifiers?
Ross: In the closet.
Rachel: The burping clogs?
Ross: Linen closet.
Rachel: The diapers?
Ross: In the hospital.
Rachel: Alright thanks, oh Ross could you stop by the coffee house and  get me a muffin?
Ross: Sure what kind?
Rachel: Umm let me think...What do I want, what d-o I w-a-n-t...
Rachel: Blueberry.
Ross: Blueberry it is.
Rachel: Thanks.
Phoebe: I dunno, well he got over the "We were on a break" thing  really quickly.
Chandler: Yep.
Phoebe: Well, alright, we already tried feeding her, changing her,  burping her, oh try this one! Go back in time and listen to Phoebe!
Rachel: Ok. (Starts swinging Emma rapidly and she stops crying)
Monica: It worked!
Monica: Umm, she Rach, not it, she. 
Monica: Oh my god, I am losing my mind.
Phoebe: Yeah, no kidding, this just proves no good can come from  having sex with Ross!
Ross: Hey Gunther, can I get a couple of blueberry muffins to go? (He  puts a bag with diapers in it on the counter.)
Gunther: Diapers huh?
Ross: Yep.
Gunther: So I guess Rachel had you baby?
Ross: Yep, can you believe it?
Ross: Not using it right, Joe.
Ross: Give me the bag.
Ross: Joey!
Joey: You should scream at me, or-or-or curse me, or hit me.
Joey: A little bit.
Ross: No.
Joey: Little bit.
Ross: No!
Joey: (excited) A little bit more.
Ross: Give me the bag.
Joey: No, hit me
Ross: Give me the bag.
Joey: Hit me.
Ross: Joey, give me the bag.
Joey: Hit me!
Joey: (interrupting) Hit me, hit me.
Ross: No!
Joey: (shouts) Hit me! Hit me! 
Ross: You ducked!!
Ross: Oh my god, this really hurts!!!
Ross: What is the matter with you?!?
Monica: Try feeding her again.
Rachel: I already fed her.
Chandler: (enters) Hey.
Monica: Hey.
Chandler: Monica can I talk to you outside for a minute?
Chandler: Actually Pheebs its more of a husband and wife kinda  thing
Phoebe: I knew I should have married Chandler.
Chandler: Umm, you know how we always said that it would be fun to  move to Paris for a year? You know, you could study French cooking and I could  write and we could take a picnic along the Seine and go wine tasting in  Bordeaux?
Monica: Oh yeah (smiles).
Chandler: Okay, you know how that people say that Tulsa is the Paris  of Oklahoma?
Monica: What? Who says that?
Monica: Excuse me?
Chandler: Okay, Ms. McKenna, she kind of works above my boss, she  asked me to move to Tulsa and be the president of our office there, and I was  sleeping and apparently, said yes.
Monica: (stands up angry) Tulsa, Oklahoma!
Chandler: The Sooner State, whatever that is.
Monica: Thank you.
Chandler: (hears Emma crying) What is wrong with Emma?
Monica: Oh she misunderstood, she thought she was moving to Tulsa.
Joey: Hey, so how is it?
Ross: I broke my thumb.
Joey: You, you want me to help you with that?
Ross: Just Ross!
Ross: You know my birthday.
Joey: Sure, May...tember.
Ross: October 18th.
Joey: Occupation? Dinosaurs.
Joey: Alright, who do you want as your emergency contact?
Ross: Ah, Rachel I guess.
Joey: Okay, relationship, boy this could take a while.
Joey: But you two were supposed to be together.
Joey: So?
Joey: Wow.
Joey: Really?
Ross: Yeah.
Ross: Hey there you go! (Smiles because Joey used it correctly)
Joey: (makes quote marks) "Thanks."
Rachel: Oh my God! How long has she been crying?
Monica: About a week and a half.
Monica: Rach, try holding her a different way.
Rachel: Here you go. (Hands Emma to Phoebe)
Phoebe: Shh! Nothing works with this child! (Hands her back.)
Rachel: I have to go to the bathroom. (Goes to the bathroom)
Phoebe: I have to go scream into a pillow. (Goes to scream into a  pillow)
Monica: (To Emma) Bouncy baby, Bouncy baby, Ooh baby baby, Ooh baby  baby, Ooh baby baby. (Emma stops crying and falls asleep)
Phoebe: (entering) Have I gone deaf?
Monica: It worked! Ooh baby baby baby, ooh baby baby baby!
Phoebe: You must be a fireball in bed.
Rachel: Oh my God! You got her to stop crying!
Rachel: You are the official baby crier stopper!
Monica: Yes I am!!
Monica: Say what?
Monica: (stands up to hand Emma back) Oh no no no no!
Monica: What?
Chandler: (entering, loudly) Hey!
Monica: Shhh! We just got her to go to sleep
Monica: No.
Monica: (loudly) What!?
Ross: Hey.
Rachel: Heeeeey, where have you been? (He shows her his thumb) What  happened to you?
Ross: Ah I had a little thing with Joey, if you think this is bad you  should see him.
Rachel: Oh no Ross! This is not good, we have to talk about this Joey  thing. Please sit. (He sits) You have got to get over this Joey thing, okay? I  never really wanted to marry Joey, okay?
Ross: Okay.
Rachel: You know what I really really want?
Ross: What, Rach?
Rachel: I wanna sleep, I wanna eat, I wanna take a shower, I mean  before she wakes up and we gotta do this all over again.
Ross: (smiles) Right.
Monica: (comes running out the kitchen to the bedroom) Got it! Got it!  Got it! Got it! Got it! Got it!
Chandler: (enters) Hey, what you guys talking about?
Joey: Hey OK great, what would you do if I did this? (Swings to punch  Chandler, he moves and he ends up punching Ross, knocking him off the stool.  Ross then gets up and just stares at Joey.)