Chandler: Hey!
Ross: Yeah! Yeah! OK! Sure! Look! Can we...can we talk about what happened    here last night?
Chandler: Sure! Just give me a second to get all huffy and weird like you!    Do you believe that who ever   did something over here last night did what they did or didn't do ...I mean    come on!!
Ross: OK you...you really don't know what I am talking about?
Chandler: No!
Ross: OK! Last night after the party I saw Rachel kissing that jerk from    her office out on your balcony.
Chandler: Our balcony? Seriously? That's so funny because I told Monica    we should put lights on our balcony. And she said   "No, no. It's too cold, nobody will go out there." And I said "Maybe    if we put some light out there they will"
Ross: Right that's why I came over to talk about. Hum...I saw Rachel kissing    some guy on your balcony,   even though there were NO LIGHTS !
Chandler: So are you gonna...talk to her?
Ross: Why...Why should I? I mean if she wants to move on, that's fine!
Chandler: You know when "That's fine" sounds true when someone    yells it and spits!
Ross: No I'm serious. I mean she wants to date people? Fine! I don't care    but...at least she could have told me. You know   I...I've been putting my life on hold and just concentrating on Emma but if    she wants to go out there kissing guys she   barely knows, then so will I ! Very funny! Ross is gay! Ah! Ah!
Chandler: No no no. Good. So you're moving on? Do you have any idea where    you're moving?
Ross: I don't know. I mean I have plenty of opportunity. Just just now    there were some women at the coffee house smiled at me.   And then the other day on the subway a woman "accidentally" sat on    my hand.
Chandler: Dude, don't rub my face in your crazy single life!
Ross: Well, and how about this? There is an anthropologist at school who    totally came on to me during the inter-departmental   Potluck dinner.
Chandler: Why did I get married?!
Joey: Hey! Let me ask you guys something. I have a new headshot taken tomorrow    right and the photographer said she thinks I   should have my eyebrows waxed. Is that weird for a guy?
Phoebe: Well it depends.
Joey: On...?
Phoebe: On how far along he's in the sex change process!
Monica: No I totally disagree. No I think it's fine for a guy to do something    like that. Such you an actor. Not that you need to,   your eyebrows are...
Joey: Ok! Stop it you guys! Stop staring! You're freaking me out!
Phoebe: Your knuckles are kinda hairy too...
Joey: Oh man! I have to get those done too?!
Phoebe: Wow! Talking about high maintenance
Joey: Hey hey! You dye your hair!
Phoebe: I'm a woman!
Joey: Arghhh! Double standards!
Phoebe: Oh before I forget, are you coming to Mike's piano bar tonight?
Monica: Only if I don't have to get up and sing.
Phoebe: But everybody sings. It's so much fun! Last time this adorable    old man got out there, forgot all of the words, flipped out   and everyone booed him off the stage. So funny.
Monica: It's just, I'm not good at singing.
Phoebe: Oh! What's the matter? Are you scared? You're afraid I'm a better    singer? You're afraid I'm gonna beat you at singing?
Monica: No no, it's not working on me. Wow! I must be growing up!
Phoebe: OK fine! Please come and support Mike. You don't have to sing.
Monica: So I don't have to sing and I can just sit there and pass judgments    on others?
Phoebe: While drinking...
Monica: I'm there!
Rachel: Hi guys! Listen I really need your help. I think I did something    really stupid.
Phoebe: Well yes Rachel but you got something so beautiful out there
Rachel: No not that. I kissed Gavin last night.
Phoebe: Oh my god.
Monica: You kissed him?
Rachel: Yeah. It was after the party, we were on the balcony and...
Monica: Wait wait wait. I was at home the whole time. How did I missed    that?
Phoebe: It was the end of the party, you were probably ironing wrapping    paper.
Monica: Oh yeah...So how did you end up kissing?
Rachel: You know we were all alone and he was being really nice to me and,    oh and he gave me this scarf...
Monica: I thought you hated him?
Rachel: You know honey, there is a thin line between love and hate, and    it turns out that line...is a scarf!
Monica: So are you thinking of starting up something with this guy?
Rachel: I don't know. It's so complicated. I work with this guy, you know,    I have the baby, and I have Ross, and I just...I don't   know what to do and I have to be at the office and see Gavin in ten minutes.
Monica: Sounds like you need to think about what you want, talk to Gavin,    and you definitely should talk to Ross
Rachel: Or...I could call in sick and not deal with it at all...
Phoebe: Wow! Five-month maternity leave, you're back for four days, kiss    a co-worker, call in sick, they are lucky to have you!!
Joey: Hey. I'm here for my eyebrow appointment.
Joey: Chandler Bing.
Joey: OK Thanks.   (Joey touches the hot wax). I touched the stuff
Sonia: I'll take care of it
Joey: Thanks. Do you get a lot of guys in here?
Sonia: Oh absolutely.
Joey: Oh good...
Sonia: Are you looking to meet somebody?
Joey: All right let's just do this.
Sonia: We'll get to the wax in a minute. First I want to tweeze some of    the strays, ok? This may sting just a little bit...
Joey: Please I have an extremely high threshold...Holly Mother Of God!    My face! My face!! I'm all right! I'm all right!   Just a little bit of shock that's all but I'll be fine you can go again. I'm    OK   (He tries to avoid the tweezers) Dammit! Woman!! How Hoooow!
Chandler: Hey it's the most eligible man in NY. How's the moving on going?
Ross: Not well. I went on the subway again and someone did sit on my hand    but that person was neither female nor wearing pants.
Chandler: Well maybe you're going about this the wrong way. You know I    mean think about it. Single white male, divorced three times,   two illegitimate children. The personal ad writes itself....
Ross: That's funny...Do you think you'll ever work again?
Chandler: What are doing? You know I can only dish it out!
Ross: I can't believe Rachel just moved on and didn't say anything to me
Chandler: Maybe she didn't move on, you know...maybe that kiss was just    an impulsive one-time birthday thing
Ross: No no, about a month ago she gave her number to some guy in a bar.
Chandler: Did she go out with him?
Ross: No. When he called, I...I threw the message away.
Chandler: Ah! The high road...
Ross: You know what? Enough! Enough talking! I have to get moving! Hey    check out those two blondes over there!   Hey come with me!
Chandler: Are you trying to get everybody divorced?
Ross: You don't have to do anything. It will just be easier if it is the    two of us, like college, remember? You...you break the   ice with some kind of jokes so that they know you're the funny one and I swoop    in with some interesting conversation, so   they'll see that I'm the brilliant, brooding, sexy one...
Chandler: I thought I had to make the jokes!
Ross: Don't you have to be at work?
Chandler: Oh come on! Hello! Hi! My name is Chandler, here's my friend    Ross right here, and we were wondering you know if you're up for it.    We only need six more people for a human pyramid...Swoop!! Swoop!!
Chandler: We still got it!
Rachel: Who is it?
Gavin: Gavin! I brought you some soup.
Rachel: Why?
Gavin: I heard you were sick...
Rachel: Oh! Right! Yeah! Hold on, I'll be just clean up in here a little    bit! Hello Gavin
Gavin: I missed you at work today. How are you feeling?
Rachel: I a not gonna lie to you, I'm pretty sick
Gavin: Oh! Good! Because I was having a totally paranoid moment when I    thought you called in sick to avoid me.
Rachel: Oh no no no
Gavin: So I had fun last night
Rachel: So did I
Gavin: Exactly how contagious is this thing you have? I mean is it a cold    for standing on the balcony or did a monkey bite you?
Rachel: It's just a cold
Gavin: Do you have fever? Let me see. Hum...
Rachel: What? What's the matter?
Gavin: What's Ross doing to you on that picture?
Rachel: Oh he's dusting me with a fossil brush. He thought it would be    funny.
Gavin: Right. Right. Ross. So what's the deal with you guys? I don't want    to get in the middle of anything
Rachel: Oh you're not. You're not gonna get in the middle of anything,    don't worry about Ross really, really.   (She hears the noise of the key in the lock) Oh! Hide! That's Ross! Hide! Hide!
Gavin: Yeah! But you said not to worry about...
Rachel: I lied! And I'm not sick! Just stay behind the curtain!
Molly: Hi!
Rachel: Oh! Molly! You're not Ross.
Molly: No I'm here to take Emma to your mother's, remember?
Rachel: Right, right, yes!
Molly: Don't panic!
Rachel: What?
Molly: There is a man behind your curtain. I have a mace in my purse.
Rachel: No! That's OK! That's OK! That's OK! No no no no! This is my business    associate Gavin. He's just being silly.   Gavin come out from behind that curtain!
Gavin: Hi! Gavin! Please to meet you. It was my idea to stand there.
Molly: Hello! I just go and get Emma.
Rachel: OK.
Gavin: So hum...Why did I have to hide?
Rachel: I thought it was Ross.
Gavin: So what if it was? I thought there was nothing going on between    you two...
Rachel: There isn't. There is totally isn't.
Gavin: You hear a key in the hole and you jump like a young bronco coming    out of a chute for the first time. I used to be a   rodeo clown.
Rachel: All right. Look. Gavin...I...I guess I felt guilty that you were    here, which I shouldn't. You know Ross and I are not in   any relationship but...he is the father of my child, and you know we do live    together and plus there is just so much   history...you know it's just...I don't know, I'm sorry, I'm just all over the    place.
Gavin: It's OK. I know it's probably not my place but can I give you a    piece of advice?
Rachel: Yes
Gavin: I think you should talk to Ross about all this.
Rachel: People keep saying that. Oh I'm sorry Gavin
Gavin: Don't be. It's just bad timing.
Rachel: So seriously...rodeo clown?
Gavin: One of the best, ma'am, one of the best...
Phoebe: "No time for losers, 'cause we are the champions of the world...!"    Thank you!
Mike: Oh she's my girlfriend. That's not just how we do it here. I got    to get a break and when we come back we've got Kenneth   singing "I touch myself"...I'm not here to judge!
Phoebe: Hi hi...Oh you have got to sing.
Monica: No I told you I can't.
Phoebe: But you would have so much fun and you have a really nice voice.
Monica: What have you heard me sing?
Phoebe: All the time when you're cooking.
Monica: What?
Phoebe: Yeah you're always singing "Yummy yummy yummy, I've got love    in my tummy"
Monica: Yeah I do rock that one.
Phoebe: OK so isn't there a little part of you that wants to get up there?
Monica: Just a little but...it's just so scary! I don't even know what    I would sing...
Mike: Well I've got a book around...
Monica: "Delta Dawn"
Ross: Hi! I could help not notice, but that's an unusual necklace
Woman: You already hit on me an hour ago
Ross: Right, so that's a firm "no". I cannot believe this, I    just keep striking out.
Chandler: I don't get it neither, I mean you're obviously desperate, you're    asking women how they want to be killed
Ross: This is great. Rachel's gonna keep kissing guys until she finds the    one she wants and I'm gonna die alone.
Chandler: By drowning or...?!
Michelle: Why would he break up with me?
Michelle: All I ever wanted was just love him and have him love me back.    I mean, am I so unlovable?
Chandler: Well...
Ross: I know! (he stands)
Mike: All right, that was Kenneth with his much too literal rendition of    "I touch myself". Coming up next we've got Monica   singing "Delta Dawn".
Monica: Wait wait! I can't sing in front of all these people.
Phoebe: Just pretend they're not even here! It's OK Monica, when that spotlight    hits you it so bright you won't see anyone   anyway.
Monica: Hi! I'm Monica and I'm gonna be singing "Delta Dawn"   "Delta Dawn, what's that flower you have on? Could it be a faded rose from    days gone by? ..."
Phoebe: Can you totally see through her shirt ?
Mike: Like an X-Ray. Bad day not to wear a bra.
Monica: "To take you to his mansion in the sky-y?"
Joey: Hey, I need your help.
Chandler: Wow, it seems serious. What seems to be the problem, Ashley Judd?
Joey: Look, I'll get new headshot taken, all right, so I want to get my    eyebrows shaped
Chandler: I am sorry, moment to make fun of that, please!
Chandler: Ok. First of all, this is green!
Joey: What the hell am I supposed to do!
Chandler: All right, I will help you out but you have to promise me you    will not tell anyone what I am about to tell you.
Joey: What, what.
Joey: Oh my God!
Chandler: Oh, not with my combination of ice cubes, aloe Vera and my gentle    self-loathing touch.
Monica: "Take me to the mansion in the sky-y". I am sorry, the    song is over. Did you see me out there?
Phoebe: Every little bit of you!
Mike: Sure.
Mike: Also a good gift? Underwear.
Michelle: Thank you so much for letting me do this. Public bathrooms freak    me out, I can't even pee, let alone do   anything else.
Ross: Uh-ah!
Ross: (pfew). Good choice Ross.
Ross: Oh, yeah, hello, well, now, here I am.
Rachel: Who?
Michelle: What are you taking amoxicillin for?
Michelle: Ah, who is Emma?
Ross: I told you about my daughter.
Michelle: This is your daughter? I can be your new mummy!
Chandler: And done!
Chandler: Thanks. You wanna see what it looks like?
Joey: Yeah, yeah. Hey, they totally match! They look great! They look great!    How you doing!
Chandler: Yeah, yeah, I think it looks pretty good. I was a little worried    I was uncovering a birthmark right about   there, but it turned out to be a little piece of chocolate.
Joey: Thank you so much.
Chandler: No problem.
Chandler: Yeah.
Joey: Comb my eyelashes.
Chandler: Really? In front of all this people?
Monica: And they love me!
Chandler: Oh my God!
Phoebe: Yes, she gives the people what they want.
Monica: All right, watch!
Monica: "Tonight's the night we're gonna make it happen, tonight we'll    put all other things aside. Give in this   time and show me some affection..."
Chandler: I gotta stop this.
Monica: Oh, who cares, they still love me! "I am so excited..."
Chandler: You, touching yourself, out!
Rachel: Wow. She does that a lot!
Michelle: Actually about an hour and a half.
Michelle: You feel that too? Oh, I thought that was just me!
Ross: Are you kidding?
Michelle: Hey, do you want to go away this weekend?
Rachel: How do you know about that?
Ross: Through the magic of sight! I was here, putting our child to sleep...
Michelle: Emma.
Ross: When I happened to look through the window and I see you kissing    a guy you know, for what? A week?
Michelle: Well, call me!
Ross: Ok.
Rachel: Score.
Ross: Oh, I am sorry, did you not like her, because I was hoping that we    could come to one of your kissing parties on   the balcony.
Ross: Oh, really!
Rachel: Yeah.
Ross: Oh, really!
Rachel: Oh yeah.
Ross: What about the guy from the bar?
Rachel: What? Who?
Ross: The guy you gave your number to.
Rachel: Whoa, how do you know about that?
Ross: What?
Ross: Because I folded it up and put in my pants pocket. Do you...do you    not look there?
Rachel: Ross?
Ross: I never gave it to you.
Rachel: Why?
Rachel: Oh God. You know what? Who you think you are? Who are you to decide    what messages I should or should not get?
Ross: Who am I?
Rachel: Yes.
Ross: Uh, clearly.
Ross: Yeah, maybe not. So what you wanna do?
Joey: Hey!
Rachel: Hi. Can Emma and I live here for a while?
Joey: Ha, oh, of course.
Rachel: Thank you.
Joey: Your eyebrows look weird.