Joey: Morning, roomie!
Rachel: Hey! You remembered to put clothes 
  on this morning.
Joey: Fifth day's a charm.
Rachel: Oh, Joey, it's so great to be back 
  here. I gotta tell you, you're making it so easy on me and Emma.
Joey: Hey, it's great having you back. You 
  know, stay as long as you want, and when does she stop crying all night?
Ross: Hey, you're not naked! So hey, Rach, 
  when will we expect to see you tonight?
Rachel: Well, I'll probably be back to pick 
  her up around six, but she's in the bedroom all ready to go. But she did actually 
  fall back to sleep, so...
Joey: She's probably exhausted from all 
  that adorable screaming she did last night.
Rachel: Bye!
Ross: Bye! Hey, I hope Emma isn't making 
  it too hard on you.
Joey: No, hey, it's been great.
Ross: Yeah?
Joey: Yeah. And look, I just want you to 
  know that with Rachel staying here and everything, all my feelings from before 
  are totally over, okay? And even if they weren't, when you accidentally walk 
  in on a woman using a breast pump...
Ross: Yeah, that'll do it.
Joey: Wow! So, how are you?
Ross: I'm, I'm okay. 
Joey: Really?
Ross: Sure, I mean, do I wish me and Rachel 
  living together would have worked out? Of course. You know, I'm disappointed, 
  but it's not like it's a divorce.
Joey: Well, actually it...
Ross: No, it's not a divorce, it is not 
  a divorce! Anyway, I think Rachel and I need to, you know, get on with our lives, 
  maybe, maybe start seeing other people.
Joey: Wow, really?
Ross: Yeah, sure, why not? In fact, if you 
  know anyone that would be good for me...
Joey: Sure, I know lots of girls. 
Ross: Yeah? Any names come to mind?
Joey: Ooh, names?
Phoebe: Hey.
Joey: Hey. I was just gonna get something 
  to eat. You want something?
Phoebe: What you got?
Phoebe: Goodie! Thanks. So, how is it living 
  with Rachel again? I mean, apart from the great food.
Joey: I'm fine, I'm fine, it's just, it's 
  just weird what's happening with her and Ross. You know, yesterday he asked 
  me to fix him up with somebody.
Phoebe: Oh my god, Rachel asked me if I knew 
  anyone for her too.
Joey: Why are they doing this?
Phoebe: I don't know. They're so perfect for 
  each other; it's crazy.
Joey: You know what's crazy? These jars. 
  What is it, like two bites in here?
Phoebe: I just wish they'd realise they should 
  be together.
Joey: I know, I know. And when they moved 
  back in together, I figured y'know, that's where things were headed.
Phoebe: I know. They should be a family. They 
  should get married and have more children.
Joey: Yes, and they should name one of their 
  kids Joey. I may not have kids; someone's gotta carry on the family name.
Phoebe: You know what? Maybe once they start 
  dating, and they see what's out there, they'll realise how good they are for 
  each other.
Joey: Yeah, because it is slim pickings. 
  I had this date last night: Yuck! But we should probably keep it down; she's 
  still in the bedroom.
Phoebe: So, what are we gonna do? Are we just 
  gonna go ahead and set them up with people?
Joey: I know; that just pushes them further 
  and further apart. 
Phoebe: Yeah. (BEAT) Oh, I know what we can 
  do. We could set Ross and Rachel up on horrible dates, so that they'll realise 
  how good they are together.
Joey: Ooh, that's a great plan! 
Phoebe: Yeah, you know what the best part 
  of it is? I get to do my "plan-laugh." (A maniacal laugh follows.)
Joey: Shhh! Not so loud, we don't wanna 
  wake up, uh...
Rachel: Hey!
Monica: Hey!
Rachel: You guys aren't doing anything tonight, 
  are you?
Chandler: See, now, why would you assume that? 
  Just because we're married? I will have you know that we are very hip, happening 
  people. Now, if you'll excuse me, I have to get back to reading the obituaries.
Rachel: I was just asking 'cause I need someone 
  to watch Emma tonight.
Monica: Sure, we'll do that. What are you 
  up to?
Rachel: Well, Phoebe set me up on a date. 
  
Monica: Oh my god.
Chandler: Wow.
Rachel: Why? What's the big deal?
Monica: Just figured, 'cause you and Ross 
  are...
Rachel: What, slept together a year and a 
  half ago? Yeah, I'm all set.
Chandler: Well, I think it's great that you're 
  going on a date, you know? I mean, it sounds healthy. I mean, you have needs. 
  Embrace your womanhood!
Monica: You want a job? Turn off "Oprah," 
  and send out a resume!
Rachel: So I'll bring her by around seven? 
  Is that okay?
Monica: Oh, it's perfect.
Rachel: Oh, you guys are gonna have so much 
  fun! She's at such a cute age. Oh, a couple things. Now that she's eating solid 
  food, she poops around the clock. And watch out for your hair, 'cause she likes 
  to grab it. And oh, she's also in this phase where if you leave the room, she 
  screams bloody murder, but ah... Thanks, you guys. Have fun!
Phoebe: Ooh, Joey. 
Joey: Hey.
Phoebe: Hey. I'm so excited; I just set up 
  Rachel with the worst guy tonight. 
Joey: All right! Who is he?
Phoebe: Well, it's this guy I used to massage. 
  And by massage, I mean hold down so he wouldn't turn over and flash me.
Phoebe: Oh, yeah.
Joey: She's this really boring woman. She's 
  a teacher! 
Phoebe: A teacher?
Joey: Yeah, yeah, she's really into history 
  and foreign movies... And oh, oh, she loves puzzles. Huh? Come on, who loves 
  puzzles?
Phoebe: Well, Ross does. What... You're - 
  you're ruining the plan! Joey, you've - you've fixed him up with his perfect 
  woman! 
Joey: Oh my god, you're right! 
Phoebe: Yeah.
Joey: She even reads for pleasure!
Phoebe: How do you even know a woman like 
  that?
Joey: What? I'm not allowed to know smart 
  women? 
Phoebe: Joey.
Joey: I met her at the library. I went in 
  to pee.
Phoebe: So now what do we do?
Joey: Well, okay, I'll - I'll just call 
  her and tell her the date's cancelled, and find him somebody else.
Phoebe: What if we don't find him somebody 
  else? We'll just tell her the date's off, but we don't tell Ross, and he goes 
  to the restaurant and gets stood up!
Joey: Ooh...I hear that's bad. 
Phoebe: Ooh, so this is great! Rachel's gonna 
  have a terrible date, Ross gets stood up, and then they'll realise how good 
  they have it together.
Joey: Ah, yes, The Plan! (Laughs loudly 
  again, but he sounds more like Santa Claus.)
Phoebe: It's not Santa's plan. No, it's... 
  (Laughs the real "plan-laugh.")
Joey: Yeah, you know, it's not that fun.
Phoebe: No, I think we killed it.
Chandler: Emma? Emma? Look at me! Well, I think 
  I'll go downstairs for a while.
Chandler: No, no, no, no! No, no, no, no! It's 
  okay, it's okay. I didn't go. Don't cry, it's just a bit! I'm your uncle Chandler; 
  funny is all I have!
Monica: Okay, just so you know, I'm gonna 
  be ovulating from tomorrow until the sixth, so don't touch yourself in the next 
  48 hours.
Chandler: I don't do that.
Chandler: I'll try to stop. Wait, did you say 
  until the sixth?
Monica: Yeah.
Chandler: Today is the sixth.
Monica: No, it's not.
Chandler: Yes, it's also 2003.
Monica: Oh my god. Today's the sixth?! I may 
  be done ovulating! I may have also served some very questionable meat at the 
  restaurant.
Chandler: It's okay. Go take the test and see 
  if we're okay.
Monica: Okay.
Chandler: Tough crib.
Monica: Hey, where are all my ovulation-sticks? 
  There's only one here.
Chandler: I might have checked to see if I was 
  ovulating a couple times.
Monica: Chandler!
Chandler: I am not working. There's not much 
  to do around here!
Ross: Excuse me, is there a woman waiting 
  at the bar? Someone average height, dark hair, perhaps doing a puzzle?
Waiter: Uh, there's a drunk Chinese guy.
Ross: Well, if I'm still here in an hour, 
  buy him a drink on me.
Waiter: Can I get you another glass of wine? 
  
Ross: Nah, I don't know if I should. I don't 
  wanna be drunk when I go home alone.
Waiter: Got stood up, huh?
Ross: Yeah, it's no big deal. It's just 
  a blind date.
Waiter: Are you worried your date came, saw 
  you, and left?
Ross: No! 
Monica: We're okay. I'm still ovulating.
Chandler: Oh, good, because as of four o'clock 
  this afternoon, I am not. 
Monica: So, let's do this.
Chandler: I - I don't think I can.
Monica: Come on. I know you're not eighteen 
  anymore, but give it a minute.
Chandler: Because of Emma.
Monica: Oh my god, Emma. Oh, sweetie, I forgot 
  you were here. Oh, you're right, we can't do this. We can't leave her alone.
Chandler: Sorry.
Monica: Unless... Maybe we do it here. I mean, 
  how much can she even be aware of at this age?
Chandler: Well, she's aware when we leave the 
  room. She may notice if we start... canoodling in it.
Monica: Canoodling?
Chandler: Well, I can't say "hump" 
  or "screw" in front of the B-A-B-Y.
Monica: I don't know. I mean, I guess having 
  sex in front of a baby isn't so...
Chandler: Horrifying? Scarring? Something people 
  go to jail for?
Monica: I guess you're right.
Chandler: You guess I'm right? When we stayed 
  at that bed and breakfast, you wouldn't have sex with me because you thought 
  a deer was staring through the window.
Monica: But what kind of a sick bastard wants 
  to do it in front of a deer?
Rachel: Wow, everything looks so good! I think 
  I'm gonna have the chicken.
Rachel: Oh, well, that's - that's very sweet. 
  Thank you.
Steve: I'm kind of funny looking. 
Rachel: What?
Steve: Oh, come on, you're way out of my 
  league. Everybody in here knows it. Bet that guy over there's probably saying, 
  "ooh, why she out with him? He must be rich!" Well, I'm not! 
Steve: I'm not funny either. So, if you were 
  thinking, "well, he's not that good-looking, but maybe we'll have some 
  laughs"... That ain't gonna happen.
Rachel: Well, come on, Steve; let's not rule 
  out nervous laughter. Hey, now wait a minute. Phoebe told me that - that you 
  owned your own restaurant. That's impressive.
Steve: I lost it. To drugs. 
Steve: I silk-screen t-shirts now.
Rachel: Really? What's that like?
Steve: It's really fulfilling doing something 
  you hate for no money. That's right. I have no money, I'm not funny, I live 
  in a studio apartment with two other guys, and I'm pretty sure I'm infertile.
Steve: I do like my hair.
Rachel: Really? 
Phoebe: Hello?
Rachel: Phoebe, it's me. I'm going to hunt 
  you down and kill you!
Phoebe: Hey, Rach!
Rachel: This is the worst date ever. How could 
  you set me up with this creep?
Phoebe: You know, you are talking about one 
  of my dear, dear friends. 
Rachel: I don't care! This guy is a nightmare!
Phoebe: Oh, right, so he gets a little crazy 
  when he's stoned.
Rachel: He's not stoned.
Phoebe: Did he go out for a cigarette? 
Rachel: Yeah, four times.
Phoebe: My dear, sweet Rach.
Joey: Oh, great, pretty soon they'll be 
  back together.
Phoebe: By the time anyone's figured out what 
  we've done, we'll be in sunny Mexico. (BEAT) Oh, wait, that's the end of a different 
  plan.
Monica: She's asleep. Chandler?
Monica: What are you doing?
Chandler: Emma was doing it!
Monica: She's asleep.
Chandler: Ooh, she's asleep, that means we can...
Monica: Yes, but we have to be fast.
Joey: Hello?
Joey: Emma? Hey! Hi!
Joey: How are ya? How are ya? Where are 
  your babysitters, huh? Why's the bedroom door closed?
Joey: You can't have S-E-X, when you're 
  taking care of the B-A-B-I-E!
Waiter: I've got bad news. The Chinese guy 
  left. 
Ross: Eh, if it was meant to be, it's meant 
  to be.
Waiter: Look; you got stood up, who cares? 
  We're gonna show you a good time. Just sit and relax. In fact, let me bring 
  you a crab cake appetizer on the house.
Ross: Wow, free crab cakes. Well, that's 
  nice. Although I was hoping to have sex tonight.
Waiter: Ooh... 
Ross: Just the crab cakes.
Waiter: Just get out of here, okay?
Ross: What's - what's going on?
Waiter: Eh, okay, the waiters have a little 
  pool going. We have a bet on how long it'll take before you give up and go home.
Ross: What? You - you're making money off 
  my misery?
Waiter: Well, if you stay till 9:20, I am.
Ross: This is unbelievable. I - I have never 
  been so insulted in my life. Now, if you'll wrap up my free crab cakes, I'll 
  be on my way.
Monica: Well, that was weird. You were loud, 
  and I was fast.
Chandler: I think we may have really done it 
  this time.
Monica: Oh, I wish I didn't have to wait to 
  take a pregnancy test.
Chandler: You may wanna get some more of those 
  too.
Chandler: Where's Emma?
Monica: Oh my god, where's Emma? Where's Emma?
Chandler: Don't ask me, I was in there canoodling 
  you!
Monica: Okay, okay, I'm sure that Rachel came 
  home early and picked up Emma. You go look across the hall, and I'll call her 
  cell.
Chandler: Okay. (Runs out.)
Monica: Hey, you better hope that we're pregnant, 
  because one way or another, we're giving a baby back to Rachel.
Rachel: No, no, no, I admire a man who can 
  cry.
Steve: Really?
Rachel: Don't touch my coat!
Rachel: Oh, sorry, it's my phone. Hello?
Rachel: Oh my god, this is the worst date 
  ever!
Monica: Hey, did you stop by here?
Rachel: No.
Monica: Oh my god, then...
Monica: Oh, thank god! Emma, there you are!
Rachel: What? What do you mean, "there 
  you are"? Where was she?
Joey: Because you two were having sex!
Monica: No, we weren't!
Joey: Don't you lie to me! I could tell 
  by Chandler's hair. (To Chandler.) You are so lazy. Can't you get on top for 
  once?
Chandler: All right, all right, we were. We 
  were trying to make a baby. Monica's ovulating.
Joey: Hey! It is unacceptable that you two 
  would have sex with Emma in the next room. I'm gonna have to tell Rachel about 
  this. 
Chandler: No, no, no.
Monica: No, please don't. Please, Joey. She 
  will kill us!
Joey: Hey, I gotta! Unless...
Monica: Unless what?
Joey: Unless you name your firstborn child 
  Joey.
Chandler: What? Why?
Joey: Hey, I may never have kids, and somebody's 
  gotta carry on my family name.
Chandler: Your family name is Tribbiani.
Joey: (BEAT) (Laughs.) You almost had me.
Rachel: Well, uh...
Steve: Look, I think I know the answer to 
  this question, but... Would you like to make love to me?
Rachel: Really, really not.
Steve: Eh, it's just as well. Doesn't work 
  anyway.
Rachel: All right, well that's good to know. 
  Good night, Steve.
Ross: Hey, what's wrong?
Rachel: I just had a rough night.
Ross: Oh. Crab cake?
Rachel: Eww!
Ross: Well, what happened?
Rachel: Oh, well, I...It's kind of weird talking 
  to you about this, but...
Ross: Monica told me you had a blind date.
Rachel: Yeah.
Ross: I did, too.
Rachel: Oh.
Ross: But is it technically a date if the 
  other person doesn't show up?
Rachel: Oh, oh no. Do you think she walked 
  in, saw you and left?
Ross: Why does everyone keep saying that?
Rachel: Well, if it makes you feel any better, 
  I wish my date hadn't shown up.
Ross: That bad?
Rachel: Well, he makes t-shirts for a living, 
  and he thought it would be appropriate to give me this.
Ross: Female body inspector? What size is 
  that?
Phoebe: Now, wait a minute. So, they're gonna 
  name their first child Joey?
Joey: Uh-huh.
Phoebe: How - how do I get them to name the 
  next one after me?
Joey: It's easy, you just walk in on them 
  having sex.
Phoebe: Oh, so they owe me like, three Phoebes.
Phoebe: Oh my god! Look, it's Ross and Rachel. 
  Oh, the plan is working.
Phoebe: Don't, don't do the plan-laugh.
Ross: The first date we've had in months, 
  and they were both such disasters.
Rachel: Oh. Huh. You know, it is weird that Phoebe would set me 
  up on a date that was awful on the same night that Joey set you up on a date 
  that didn't even show.
Ross: Wait a minute; you don't think it 
  was intentional? I mean, that's just stupid.
Joey: We're geniuses! Yeah, look at them, 
  look at them, they're really bonding.
Phoebe: Oh, yeah, they're falling in love 
  all over again.
Phoebe: Oh, they see us! Oh, they, they look 
  mad. Oh, they figured it out. They're coming this way. Run!
Joey: Where?
Phoebe: Mexico!
Joey: Can you believe they're still not 
  here?
Ross: I know. A double blind date, and we 
  both get stood up. What are the chances?
Joey: I know, I'm so bummed. Can we have 
  our free crab cakes now?
Waiter: What?
Joey: We've been stood up. (sniffles) And 
  we want our free crab cakes.
Waiter: Guys, give it a rest. Nobody's betting 
  on you tonight. Although we do have a pool going to see how long it takes that 
  guy to cry.
Steve: I have such fat hands!