ROSS: Hey, Rach, you know what? I think, I think I know what'll make you feel better. How 'bout you make a list about me.  RACHEL: Wha... forget it Ross, no, I am not gonna stand here and make a list of. . .  ROSS: C'mon Rachel.  RACHEL: OK, you're whiney, you are, you're obsessive, you are insecure, you're, you're gutless, you know, you don't ever, you don't just sort of seize the day, you know. You like me for what, a year, you didn't do anything about it. And, uh, oh, you wear too much of that gel in your hair.  ROSS: See there, you uhh, alright, ya, you did what I said.  RACHEL: Yeah, and you know what? You're right, I do feel better, thank you Ross. [she walks off and Ross puts his hand to his hair]  [Scene: Back at Phoebe's. She is on the phone]  PHOEBE: Yeah, um, in Albany, can I have the number of Frank Buffay. . . OK, um, in Ithica. . . alright, um, Saratoga. . . Oneonta. Alright, you know what, you shouldn't call youself information. [hangs up]  [Phoebe's grandmother enters]  GRANDMOTHER: Hey.  PHOEBE: Hello grandma, if that is in fact your real name.  GRANDMOTHER: C'mon now Phoe, don't still be mad at me. How's it going?  PHOEBE: Well, not so good. Upstate's pretty big, he's pretty small, you do the math.  GRANDMOTHER: Well, I think you're better off without him. Oh honey, I know he's your daddy but, but to me he's still the irresponsible creep who knocked up your mom and stole her Gremlin.  PHOEBE: No I just, just wanted to know who he was, ya know.  GRANDMOTHER: I know. OK, I wasn't completely honest with you when I told you that, uh, I didn't know exactly where he lived.  PHOEBE: Whattaya mean?  GRANDMOTHER: He lives at 74 Laurel Drive in Middletown. If you hit the Dairy Queen, you've gone too far. You can take my cab.  PHOEBE: Wow. Thank you.  GRANDMOTHER: Now, remember, nobody else drives that cab.  PHOEBE: Uh-huh, got it. Ooh, I'm gonna see my dad. Wish me luck, Grandpa! [blows a kiss to a picture of Einstein]  
ROSS: Alright, alright, here's the chance. Monica give him cash, Rachel give him your earrings. Something, now, anything.  MONICA: No, I will not cave.  RACHEL: Yeah, I'm with Mon.  ROSS: Alright, alright, you know how you say I never seize the day? Well, alright, even though he's your super, I'm seizing. [approaches Mr. Treeger] Mr. Treeger, here is 50 bucks, merry Christmas.  [Gives him the cash.]
JOEY: They're ribbed for your pleasure.  [Ross and Monica trade their gifts.]