Story by: Mark J. Kunerth & Pang-ni Landrum Teleplay by: Scott Silveri & Shana Goldberg-Meehan Transcribed by: Eric Aasen 
Monica: (entering) Hey.
All: Hey! 
Joey: Tell us!
Billy: Yeah, move over just a little bit. 
Robin: Keep on scooching.
Monica: So guys, listen, I go over there, and umm...
Billy: How do you know?
Billy: Yeah.
Ross: What happened?
Monica: (Robin is speaking loudly again) I...
Monica: Forget it. (they all turn and listen to Billy and Robin)
Billy: Thomas, this is gonna be hard, but I wanted it to come from me, and nobody else.
Robin: What is it, Tim?
Robin: (starting to cry) Ooh, (to Rachel) Can I have a napkin, please? Could you please hand me a napkin? (Rachel tries to grab one, but is to slow for his tastes.) Would you--Give me this thing (grabs the napkin holder from her.) all right!! Enough! (to Billy) And you are no longer my friend! We are finished! (gets up to leave) Nada!! No more! You are a bastard for doing this!! (Billy follows him) Get away from me!!
Billy: Thomas, come back here! (they both leave)
Phoebe: So Monica, what were you gonna tell us?
Monica: (pause) I have no idea.
Rachel: So, come on, what was the big news Pete wanted to tell you Mon?! Or should I say Mrs. Monica Becker?
All: Ohh.
The Guys: Pete?!
Rachel: Why?! What is it?
Phoebe: (intrigued) Oh?!
Monica: Yeah, but without the costumes.
Phoebe: (disappointed) Oh.
Ross: Yeah, anything goes, except ah, eye gouging and fish hooking.
Joey: What? My hands are totally clean, I just gave the duck a bath.
Rachel: Yes!!
Chandler: All right buddy, way to go! (smacks him on the butt)
Ross: (stunned) Dude, what are you doing?
Chandler: Thank you! Today, my boss keep slapping my butt and he was acting like it was no big deal.
Monica: Okay, can we please go eat?
Joey: Yeah. What are we getting?
Monica: (to Chandler) Anything but stew.
Joey: Yeah, or you can teach him a lesson. Y'know? What you could do is you could rub something that really smells on your butt, all right? Then, when he goes to smack ya, his hand will smell. (thinking aloud) Now what could you rub on your butt that would smell bad?
Chandler: (to Ross and Monica) What if Joey were president?
Phoebe: Umm, hey Rach, can I ask you something?
Rachel: Yeah.
Phoebe: Okay, you can totally say no, but umm, would it be okay with you if I set Ross up on a date?
Rachel: Oh, ah with who?
Rachel: Oh-oh-oh, which one is Bonnie again?
Phoebe: Great! Okay, good for you! (as they leave she slaps Rachel on the butt)
Hoshi: You are iron. You are steel! Let me ask you something, how come when I call your computer support line, I have to wait an hour and a half?
Monica: (entering) Hi!
Pete: Monica! (runs over and kisses her) Hi honey.
Hoshi: All right, on the table. (Pete gets on the table for his rubdown)
Pete: I promise.
Monica: Hey, are we still on for tonight?
Pete: Yeah.
Hoshi: No! No boom-boom before big fight!
Rachel: (to Phoebe) Well that was depressing, I think I just bought a soft pretzel from one of the kids from Fame. Ready to go to the movies?
Phoebe: Um-hmm. Oh wait! This is Bonnie. (who has hair by the way)
Bonnie: Hi!
Bonnie: I can show you an ID if you want?
Bonnie: Oh yeah, well I just started wearing bras again.
Rachel: Oh, that must be it.
Phoebe: (to Bonnie) Well I hope you have fun tonight.
Bonnie: Thanks! You too.
Rachel: (to Phoebe) You said she was bald.
Rachel: How could you not tell me that she has hair?
Rachel: (looks in the window) Ohh, well, this is just perfect!
Rachel: Yeah, I said what was okay when I thought she was some weird bald chick. I mean, y'know, that girl has hair got all over head!
Rachel: Why, does she have a bad personality?
Chandler: (to his co-workers) What is with him?
Stevens: We never get smacked.
Phil: Not on purpose, he ricocheted of you and got me.
Doug: (coming out of his office) Dartmouth? Who went to Dartmouth? Dartmouth sucks. Did you go to Dartmouth Bing?
Chandler: No sir.
Doug: There you go. (smacks him on the butt)
Ross: (walking up with this huge tub-o-popcorn and drink) Hey!
Monica: God Ross, what is that?
Monica: I love you, Pete!!!
Ross: Well, then that guy is in serious, serious trouble.
Pete: Uh-oh.
Monica: I mean I-I thought you were nuts at first, but you-you did it. And now you can just look back at this thing with no regrets.
Pete: What, look back?
Pete: Well let me ask you a question. Am I the Ultimate Fighting Champion?
Monica: Well, no. But...
Monica: That guy stood on your neck until you passed out!
Monica: Okay, just get a lot better. (pause) Fast.
Pete: Oh, one other thing. Hoshi thinks that you being ringside may have affected my concentration.
Monica: Yeah. That-that was the problem.
Monica: (joining them) Hey.
Ross: Hot dog?
Phoebe: So Ross, how umm, how did it go with Bonnie?
Phoebe: Yeah, y'know what, there are other fish in the sea.
Phoebe: Okay, I hear you! Are you capable of talking about any thing else?
Ross: Ahh, the one next to my foot. Sorry.
Chandler: Excuse me, Doug? (no reaction) Hey there sports fan!!
Doug: (turning around) Bing! You got those numbers for me?
Doug: Oh, you forgot?
Chandler: Doug!!
Doug: Hmm.
Doug: Oh, is it the swearing? I mean is it the constant swearing? Because I gotta tell ya, if it is, you can just... kiss my ass!
Doug: Oh?
Chandler: Okay. (he starts to leave)
Doug: Ha! (goes to smack him on the butt, but stops, faking Chandler out) Ahhhhhhh!
Chandler: Ahhhhh! (walks out, imitating shooting himself in the head)
Phoebe: Okay. Would you rather live in the shirt pocket of a sweaty giant, or inside his shower drain?
Rachel: Phoebe! (goes back to the window)
Phoebe: Oh no! That really is nothing, she is very sexually aggressive.
Phoebe: You said it was okay!
Rachel: You said she was bald!!
Phoebe: What?! What-what-what-what-what?!!
Rachel: (quietly) Yes.
Rachel: Yes.
Phoebe: So?
Phoebe: (sits down next to her and hugs her) Oh no.
Rachel: What?
Phoebe: Oh, we killed them all.
Rachel: Oh! 
Monica: You are insane! You-you gotta give this up!
Monica: Sit down. All right? Please, just listen to me. You are terrible at this! Okay? You are the worst ultimate fighter ever! Ever!! 
Pete: Mon-Monica?
Monica: Yes?
Chandler: Thank you, sir.
Stevens: (coming back in) Oh, excuse me. I forgot my briefcase y'know, by accident.
Chandler: Ye-ye-yeah, yes I do!
Doug: Now get on out of here, you! (smacks him on the butt)
Chandler: Run! Run you crazy, rich freak!
Monica: Really?!
Joey: No-o-o!!
All: Oh! Oh! (they all recoil in horror)
All: Ohh!! (they all start pointing at the screen)