Chandler: Wow! That ripped! That ripped real nice!
Joey: How many times do I have to tell you! Ya, turn and sliiiide! Y'know, turn
and slide.
Chandler: (nods his head) Do you mind if we stick you in another cabinet? (to
Joey) They seem all right with it!
Monica: Yesss!!
Monica: Shhh!
Monica: Chip, is Chip Matthews.
Ross: The guy who took Rachel to the prom? Why is he calling you?
Ross: (to Rachel) I was just leaving.
Ross: Why? Did you write it?
Ross: Well ah, actually...
Rachel: (interrupting) I bet he sensed that I was ready to have sex with another
guy.
Rachel: Okay. (picks up phone) Are you sure you wanna hear this?
Phoebe: (screaming, angrily) ...DUMB, DRUNKEN, BITCH!!! (applause) (happily)
Thank you, thanks.
Chandler: Uh-huh, first you tell us where you got the prettiest lace in all the
land.
Joey: Looks good, uh?
Ross: Yeah.
Chandler: (reading the ad) Stunning entertainment center. Fine, (pause) fine
Italian craftsmanship. (Joey is very proud of himself)
Phoebe: Oh my God, you guys are selling the entertainment center?
Rachel: Why? I love that thing.
Chandler: You want it?
Chandler: Ahh, Gepeto, $5,000 dollars? Are you insane?
Joey: Hey, the ad alone cost 300 bucks!
Joey: What kind of profit is that?! And you call yourself an accountant.
Chandler: (looks at him) Nooo.
Joey: Oh. What do you do?
Ross: Good, so do I
Rachel: Something to do with numbers?
Rachel: What?
Phoebe: Nothing. Nothing.
Phoebe: I just, I just have this really strong feeling that this cat is my
Mother.
Rachel: You mean the mom you met in Montauk. She was a cat?!
Phoebe: No, no-no, she was a human lady. This is the spirit of my Mom
Lily, the one who killed herself.
Chandler: (interrupting) Let it go!!
Monica: Hey!
Monica: Now? Is it okay if I go out with Chip Matthews?
Monica: What, that little thing at the prom?
Monica: Come on, that was back in high school! How could that still bother you?
Rachel: I mean why, of all people would you want to go out with Chip?!
Monica: Look, you and I went to different high schools...
Rachel: (shocked) They had to have that specially made?!
Monica: It was a project for one of the Home Ec classes.
Rachel: (stunned) Oh my God, they told us that was for the mascot!
Rachel: Oh, you go out with him. (goes over and hugs her) 
Monica: Oh, really?!
Ross: So you guys having any luck getting rid of the entertainment center?
Chandler: Yes, Joey has a very careful screening process. Apparently, not
everyone is qualified to own wood and nails.
Phoebe: (is struggling with the cat) Stop it! Stop it! She keeps squirming,
trying to get away! Just like when she was alive.
Ross: So Pheebs, how long is your mom gonna be with us?
Rachel: I believe it.
Rachel: Yes, I do.
Rachel: Oh sure I am, because you always have to be right.
Rachel: Jurassic Park could happen.
Joey: Pretty nice?
Tony: You gotta take the canoe!
Chandler: All right, just, just take the entertainment center, and then when you
get home, throw the canoe away!
Joey: (to Peter) Good for you!!
Joey: (looking at the flyer) Yeah-eah! 200 dollar reward, split five ways!!
Rachel: Do we have to tell her?
Ross: Yes, we have to tell her!
Ross: (holds up a hand) Little girl misses her cat. (hold up the other hand)
Crazy lady thinks her mother is in a cat. (gets up) Okay, y'know what, I have to go have
dinner with my son, can I trust that when you see Phoebe, you will tell her.
All: (disappointed) Yeah.
Ross: Thank you.
Rachel: I hate when Ross is right!
All: You think?
Phoebe: (entering, with Julio) Hi. (sits down in the chair)
Monica: Hi!
All: Hey!
Joey: Uh, Pheebs, about your mom...
Phoebe: Yeah?
Phoebe: So great. Oh, we took a nap today and my Mom fell asleep on my tummy and
purred.
Rachel: Pheebs...
Phoebe: I just feel so, uhh.....
Rachel: All right!!
Rachel: Jeez!
Monica: (running from the bathroom to her room, wearing only a towel) Not yet!
Not yet! Not yet! Not yet! Not yet! Not yet! Not yet! Not yet! (gets to her room and
closes the door, as Rachel gets up to answer the door.)
Rachel: Hello, Chip.
Chip: So ah, Monica ready yet?
Joey: This is the unit for you my friend. Sturdy construction, tons of storage
compartments, some big enough to fit a grown man.
Guy: What?!
Guy: All right, you have yourself a deal. (shakes his hand)
Joey: Okay. (he gets in the unit and closes the door) See?! I told ya! 
Joey: Sometimes I get in here just to get away from it! Hey, a nickel!!
Chip: Here, we are.
Monica: Oh my God! You still have the Chipper!
Chip: The what?
Monica: Wow! A lipper from Chipper.
Chip: So you still in touch with anyone from high school?
Chip: Oh yeah, I still hang with Simmons and Zana, y'know. I see Spindler a lot.
Devane, Kelly, and I run into Goldie from time to time. Steve Brown, Zuchoff, McGwire,
J.T., Breadsly.
Monica: Is that all?
Chip: Ehh, y'know after high school, you just kinda lose touch. Oh yeah! I ran
into Richard Dorfman.
Monica: Ohh, how is he?
Chip: Not so good, Simmons and I gave him a wedgie.
Chip: Yeah, they still wear underwear.
Chandler: OH MY GOD!!!
Joey: (still trapped in the entertainment center) WHAT?!! 
Chandler: Are you all right?!
Joey: Yeah...
Chandler: (lets him out) What happened?!!
Chandler: What the hell happened?!! How were you locked in?!! And where the hell
is all of our stuff?!!
Chandler: BEND OVER?!!!
Chip: ...and then Zana, just let one rip!! (laughs histerically)
Chip: You know where I work!
Monica: I do?
Chip: The movie theatre, you used to come in all the time.
Monica: You still work at the multiplex?
Chip: Oh yeah, but I can stay out as late as I want.
Rachel: Wow! They really got you guys. Your T.V. The chairs.
Phoebe: Oh yeah, your microwave. The stereo.
Joey: (looking through a deck of cards) Aww, man, he took the five of spades!!
Oh, no-no-no, here it is!
Monica: (entering) Oh my God! What happened?
Chandler: Oh, umm, Joey was born, and then 28 years later, I was robbed!!
Rachel: (to Monica) So, how was your date?
Monica: Well, y'know how I always wanted to go out with Chip Matthews in high
school?
Rachel: Um-hmm.
Monica: Well, tonight, I actually went out with Chip Matthews in high school.
Monica: I know!
Ross: (entering) Hey! So ah, what did the insurance company say?
Phoebe: Yeah? (sees Ross) Hi!
Ross: Hi! Listen uhh, this cat belongs to a little girl. There are flyers all
over the place.
Monica: Hey, we can take her back with you if you want.
Phoebe: Ohh. Um-hmm. But y'know, she choose to find me. I mean, I have to
respect her decision. Right?
Phoebe: (she turns around and puts the cat on the entertainment center) Ross,
how many parents have you lost?
Ross: None.
Phoebe: Okay.
Phoebe: I think she would like that.
Phoebe: Thank you. We both forgive you.
Rachel: So honey, what are you gonna do about the little girl?
Monica: Me too. (they all leave)