ANONYMOUS,    MIAMI    1981: crawls up the screen -- with Narrator.
NO        ..NO.: His eye movements are rapid (over shoulders, sides, doors) and he does a lot of touching -- objects -- lightly with the tips of the fingers. Man #3 is stepping forward out of the shadows.
MAN #3: Sweetheart? (to the other men) We been seeing more and more of these. It's some kinda    code these guys used in the can. Pitchfork means an assassin or something. This one's new...You want to tell us, Montana or you want to take a little trip to the detention center?
TONY: Hey, so I was in the can once for buying dollars. Big deal.
TONY: That Bogart, Chico, hunh?
TONY: That gold dust blowing in the wind. Y'see Manny, he's always looking over his shoulder. Hunh?   Like me....
TONY: Never happen to me, Chico. That's one thing I never gonna be. I never gonna be crazy like that. Yeah, how do you know....
CHI-CHI: Want some new snatch? A pussycat name of Yolanda just rolled onto the Boulevard --- Oh    yeah, what        she       look   like?
CHI-CHI: She look like you 'cept she got a snatch. A     real    snatch?
TRANSVESTITE: (passing) What about you sugar -- you wanna party?
TONY: (passing her) Yeah     with whose cock,                honey?
TONY: You worry too much, mi hermano.  Like the man says, 'when you got 'em by the balls, their hearts and minds gonna follow' --hunh?
TONY: (lying there) Aw fuck.... Qye !   Tony!   C'mon!
ANGEL: (at a distance) Hey Tony where ya going?
TONY: I got better-things to do.
ANGEL: Chicken   liver,   hunh?
TONY: (to Manny) Yeah? (looking zd) Let's   walk. You ready for the good news, cone?
TONY: Yeah.
MANNY: We can be outta here in thirty days. Not only that. We got a green card and a job in Miami! Hunh? We're made, Chico, we're made?
TONY: Yeah, whadda we gotta do, go to Cuba and hit the Beard or what?
TONY: (enthusiastic) Hey you're kidding, that's great! But Manny, you tell your guys Angel gets out with us.
ALL: (in unison) Libertad!   Libertad!
INSIDE - REFUGEES: are     pulling    apart        their     beds, going for the wooden slats. Others     set     fire     to      their   mattresses.
25     CONTINUED: The work is fast. The stiletto punches nine quick holes in
26     EXT. FREEDOMTOWN - DAY                                                   26: The riot is over.       The grounds are still, smoke and debris the aftermath.
27-A   EXT. DOWNTOWN MIAMI - SUNNY DAY                                          27-A: The new Miami is rising UbiqUitOUSly above Biscayne Bay, the camera moving past blossoming skyscrapers, workmen, huge cranes, glass, mirrors booming upwards into a beautiful blue Florida sky, fleeced with perfectly white clouds.. .past a giant billboard:
HOW   ABOUT        A    MILLION   DOLLAR    LOAN?: Past banks of glass (Caribank, Banco                   de Venezuela, Amerifirst).... Insert a car sticker going by with the image of the American flag and the reminder: "WilI. the last American leaving Miami please bring flag?" Tony and MaMy bop al.oig the street in their hand-me-down clothes, oogling the chicas and the bodegas (in a plush modern area of Miami). Boats. Buildings.    Cars.
TONY: ...the fuck was #at? You didn't see it?   You weren't looking.  Hey you gotta watch for it.
TONY: What the hell's that for -- eating bugs?  That's disgustin'. You think so hunh? Well you don't know shit 'bout chicks Chico. they see this, they know. They go crazy.   They don't resist me. (doing it again) Takes practice, mi sangre, but they just love it when you flop that pussy with it....
TONY: Oooh...cono!   How 'bout that one? No problem.
TONY: (contemptuous of the name) El Mono? Shit....
OMAR: I got something for you. That's great...What   do we Oh   yeah! gotta do?
TONY: You gotta be kidding! Whaddayou think we are -- baggage handlers?
TONY: You kidding.
OMAR: ...There's a bunch of Columbians.                 (Xl Flying in Friday. New guys. They say they got two keys for us for openers.   Pure coke. In a motel over in Miami Beach.  I want you to go over there, and if it's what they say it is, pay 'em and bring it back. You do that, you'll make five grand. (to Tony-) Hey, that sounds great, Tony....
OMAR: You know how to handle a machine gun? Sure we was in the Amy together.
OMAR: You're gonna need a couple other guys.... No problem.
OMAR: Meet me at Hector's bodega Friday at noon. You get the money then. Some-               (Xl thing happens to the money, pobrecito, and my boss' gonna stick your head up your asses faster'n a rabbit gets fucked.
TONY: So what does it matter? So whatcha have that look on for when Omar bring it up?
TONY: So nothin'.   I just don't like fuckin' Columbians that's what. They're animals!
COOK: (intersecting, Spanish) Where you greasers going,    hunh,   I   got plenty of plates here.
TONY: Wash         yourself. I just retired. `em
COOK: (Spanish) What the fuck you gonna do!
TONY: Look after my investments.
I: (making fun) Yeah, Chango looking out for us,
ANCEL: Chango looking out for all the 'bandidos' everywhere.   But you gotta pay him his dues, y'know. You gotta let him know you respect him. You don't, Chango -- he gets pissed an'....
TONY: (angry) shaddup -- all of ya! I told                 (Xl Hey, you before I don't go for that mystical voodoo shit. That's for the old cunchas waving their rooster cocks in some dark alley, There's no gods, there's no Chango -- nowhere! You make your own luck. So shaddup and act like you're in the United States here.
TONY: Okay, this is it. Pull over across the street.
TONY: (to Manny) Money stays in the trunk till I come out and get it. Me. Nobody else. If I'm not out in fifteen minutes, some- I'm in Room 9. You thing's wrong. ready, Angelito?
.: As Manny pulls    the car up, they pull out Ingram Model-10 machine pistol     with folding butt and suppressor, ten inches of kill power     capable of firing 1100 rounds a minute -- it into a man's purse, it's in vogue.   Tony can be slipped gettting out,     to Angel:
TOAD: Hey, oye amigo....
TONY: (as he steps in) How you doing amigo...?
TONY: (checking out the room) Mind leaving the door open so my brothers know everything's okay... okay?
`TO@: problem... This is Marta. Sure, no
TONY: Hello, Marta.
TOAD: I'm Hector....
TONY: Yeah.  I'm Tony.     So Omar says you're okay.
TOAD: Yeah,   Omar's   okay.
TONY: You know Omar.
TOAD: Omar, yeah, I talk to him on the phone.
TONY: Okay....
TOAD: Okay... so you got the money?
TONY: Yeah, you got the stuff?
TOAD: Sure I got the stuff, but I don't got it right here with me.  I got it close by.
TONY: Yeah well I don't got it either, I got it close by, too.
TOAD: Where, in the parking lot?
TONY: How far's your stuff? No.
TONY: So what do we do, walk in and start over?
TOAD: (change6 subject} Where you from?
TONY: What fuckin' difference does it make where I'm from?
TOAD: I like to get to know who I do business with.
TONY: You get to know me when you start doing business and not fucking around, Hector.
TOAD: Hey I'm just a friendly guy, maybe you don't....
TONY: Okay, what's the stall here?     Your guy late or something?
ANGEL: Tony!
TONY: Frog face, you just fucked up.     You steal from me, you're dead.
TOAD: Yeah, okay, you gonna give me the cash or am I gonna kill your brother first?  'Fore I kill you?
TONY: Try sticking your head up your ass. See if it fits.
TOAD: Okay, my 'caracortada', you can die too. Makes no difference to me.
TOAD: Last chance, carajo?
TONY: Yeah, bunch of cowboys!..somebody fucked up Omar.
LOPEZ: How ya doing, Tony? Glad to meet you.  How 'bout a drink?
LOPEZ: Call me Frank, Tony.  Everybody calls me Frank. My Little League team, even the prosecutors 'round town, they all call me Frank.
LOPEZ: I want you to meet a friend of mine. Tony Montana...Elvira...Manny Ribera.
ELVIRA: I assume we're going to be a               fivesome. Where are we having dinner?
ELVIRA: Again?  If anyone wanted to assassinate you, you wouldn't be too hard to find. (coming toward her, laughing) Me? Who'd want to kill         me?       I got nothing but friends.
CHICK: (indicates the machine) Put it in, let's play. I-had    other      things        in   mind.
CHICK: You check out on this and we'll talk about other things. (looks off, concerned,   then confronts the complex machine} Puck,    how do you play this                  thing?
LOPEZ: That's right. Course not everybody follows the rules. (eyeing Elvira)
HEAD WAITER: There you go, Mr. Lopez. He's popped the champagne cork and pours Dom Perignon for Lopez.
LOPEZ: Hey, George -- buddy. Hey, Frank.. -how's         the case coming?
LOPEZ: OY, I shoulda come to you 'stead of that putz, Neufeld.
SHEFFIELD: Jack's a good lawyer.   I taught him everything he knows.
LOPEZ: Yeah, almost    everything.
SHEFFIELD: (to Elvira) Elvira, you look terrific... (to all) Enjoy .yourselves.
LOPEZ: I . . best goddamn lawyer in Miami. Cost a brick to pick up a phone.
LOPEZ: his. (raising champagne    glass) so.. .here's   to old friends...and         new friends.
TONY: Hey, yeah, you're not kidding, this is good stuff, Frank.
ELVIRA: away (waving cigar smoke) SO, you want to dance, Frank or you want to sit here and have a heart attack?
TONY: Elvira St. James.  Sounds like a nun or something.  So where you from?
ELVIRA: Look, it doesn't really matter. I'm getting a headache.
..: .I'm sorry.   I didn't           know you were so sensitive about               your diplo- matic status.
ELVIRA: You know you're even stupider than you look.   Let me give you a crash course, Jose whatever your name is, so you know what you're doing around here.
TONY    .: . ..I. shoulda been here IO vears ace man. This town's like a fig pussy dyin' to $5 fucked, ParaBise, rr.an, saradisef  I: coulda been a millionaire now. Get xy 3wn golf COXSP, a boat... mhi I want 2 line of bluejeans vith .?ry name on the
TONY: . ..yeah ve gotta make sore moves on our own Xanny, we never gcnna score the i3ig Xoney vorking for Frank. Frankvs okay.
TONY: Yeah -- cause he buys you a suit?    You thinkin' like a chicker,h,ead again
TOW: Organizaticn?               I got more brains than Omar and he's bigger than ~TC,  That's not an organization. That`s a disorganization. pihat do you do for a brain man? Piss in it?'        '
.: Ooooh baby doll  (SEE NOTES)
.: Does it again , quickly; it looks like a baby robin's head peeking out of a nest in his teeth, then it's gone.
.: They don't resist me. crazy.
-.: takes a moment, then the blonde scks him across the face
.: Tnrn telling you man you got it- all mixed
UP: money; then you get the power, and when you got the power, then you get the women -- then, chico, you got the worldby the balls. Por Los cojonesl
TONY: (covering his unwonted emotion) Yeah, look at you,           you're beautiful... what's it been seven           years? Last                               (Xl you        looked like a boy. time I saw you, Now look at you, you          got great big eyes just like me!          Yeah,     so.... a
TONY: I got this for you, no big.deal but....
TONY: Hey pussycat, c'mon -- you think they can keep a guy like me down?
TONY: (holding Gina by the shoulder, making light of it) Well anyway, here we are hunh? The three musketeers! We made it to America hunh? Let's toast!
TONY: C'mon Mama. Things are different. I'm working with this anti-Castro I'm an organizer now, we get .group. a lotta political contributions.... Sure you do Tony -- with a gun sticking in somebody's face.   All we read about in the papers is the animals like you and the killings, what about the Cubans who come here and work hard and make a good name for themselves? What about....
TONY: Hey Mama, come on, you don't know what you're talking about..... (continuing) No, no, that's not the way I am Tony and that's not the way I -- (emphasizing it) L raised Gina to be. You're not going to destroy her.    I dont' need your money, thanks.    I work for my living -- and I don't want you in this house anymore and I don't want you around Gina.    So leave us alone...go on, get out! And take this lousy money with you, it stinks!
GINA: Oh Mama.. .why do you got to spoil it for everybody. (to Tony) I'm sorry Tony, I....
TONY: igently) Okay, Mama, okay....
TONY: Shaddup!
GINA: Tony! Hey   who's that?
GINA: Tony-.-Mama      -- since Papa             off....
TONY: Hey forget Papa, we never          had    one, okay? He was a bum!
GINA: (continuing) . . . she's got a lot of hate in her Tony, she's proud, you got to understand that?
TONY: (making light of it now) Hey it's okay, it's Mama,          what    do    you want, she's Old World.
GINA: I know you did some bad things Tow, then.     The Army, I know you got back trouble. into    some
TONY: Communists      you   know,   they're     always trying to tell you what to do.
GINA: Mama,    she    doesn't understand-.-but           I just want you to know, y'know, I don't care. Five years, ten years,
TONY: Go on! Go out and have some fun, what the hell? You gonna beat your- self to death at nineteen, pussycat like you?
TONY: He got held up at the golf club. He told me to pick you up. He`ll meet us at the race track.
TONY: He said if he was late to bet Ice Cream in the first.
TONY: Over   there....
TONY: (hurt) Whaddaya mean, that's a          Cadillac.
ELVIRA: I wouldn't be caught dead in that thing.
TONY: It's got a few years on it but it's 'a creampuff.'
ELVIRA: It looks like somebody's nightmare.
TONY     .: Yeah it looks like one of the tigers                    (Xl from India. (to Elvira) Tony been dragging me around to the zoos, looking at tigers. He wants to buy one of them too. (amused) He do that he gonna have no friends left. Not that he got any now.
ELVIRA: You going to drive around with a tiger in your passenger seat Tony?
TONY: Yeah.. -maybe some lady tiger (to Salesman) How much?
TONY: (genuinely) That all?
SALESMAN: Machine gun turrets are extra.
TONY: (circling the car) Funny guy hunh...Manny,   c'mere. Manny comes over and Tony walks him along the car, in quieter tones.
TONY: .Get these sections bullet-proofed               (X ...here...here.. .these windows.... Yeah.
TONY: ...and a phone with a scrambler.                    (X, okay.
...: ...And one of those radio scanners, y'know, pick out flying saucers and stuff. Yeah a good one.
ELVIRA: (joining them) Don't forget the fog lights.
TONY: Yeah in case I go to the swamps, Good idea.
ELVIRA: (impatiently) I thought you were taking me to Frank?
TONY: Figgers.  Check it out, will you Manny and pay the guy and grab a taxi out to the track.... Thanks,           yeah....
TONY: I'm glad you came. 'I                    wouldn't                             (Xl buy the car you didn't                   like it.
ELVIRA: Planning on driving the                       girls     crazy,' aren't you?
TONY: I   like    Frank.. -but I    like    you    better.
ELVIRA: (same tone of voice as before) Don't get confused, Tony.             I     don't fuck around with the help,
TONY: (cutting  in) and he'd like meeting you too 1;;: Sosa.    But with his trial coming up y'know, it's not so easy for him to slip outta the country right now, y'understand?
SOSA: (taking the measure of Tony, sarcastic) So    he   sent you?
TONY: Yeah, something like that. You sure got good stuff in there Mr. Sosa -- class A shit.
SOSA: We'll talk at my house.           Shall    we go....
SOSA: (to Omar) ...say Lopez guarantees me 150 keys a month for a year, and he picks it up down here, I could sell it to him for as little as 7000 a kilo.  You cannot do better than that.
TONY: That means we gotta go to war with `em. looks over at him, not quite knowing yet what to make
SOSA: When we cut out.the Coluxnbians we take risks -- on both sides.
TONY: Split the risk. Guarantee your delivery as far as Panama.
SOSA: Panama?  Risky?   It costs me more. There I'd sell maybe 13.5 a key.
TONY: 13.5! What are you nuts? We still gotta take the shit to Florida. You know what that's like these days? They got the Navy all over the fuckin' place.   They got frogmen, they got EC 2s with satellite tracking shit in 'em, they got fuckin' Bell 209 assault choppers up the ass, we're losing one out of every nine loads.   It's no duckwalk   for us anymore, y'know. Forget it.
SOSA: What do you suggest is a fair...? Excuse me. Interrupted, Sosa looks over at his black aide who suddenly appears at the door, apparently with a message.  Sosa waves him in. The black aide Y- The Skull -- is a slim, tall imposing man with academic, 'horn-rimmed glasses and close-cropped hair on a huge and impressive skull. He combines the physical qualities of an animal with an intellectual. As he approaches, he glances down the table, his eyes falling
SOSA: Where were we?
TONY: Panama.   You're looking for a partner, right?
SOSA: ...something like that. (chuckles)
OMAR: Look Mr. Sosa, we're getting ahead of ourselves here.   I'm down on Frank's authority to buy 200 keys, that's it, that's my limit.    I got no right to negotiate for Frank Lopez on anything larger than that. So why don't we...
TONY: Hey Omar why don't you let the man finish, hunh? Let him propose his proposition.
OMAR: Hey Montana, you got no authority here, okay ! I started you in this business, all right, so shut the fuck UQ!
TONY: (shrugs) Frank'11 love it.        Don't worry about it.
OMAR: That's up to Frank -- not you.
SOSA VILLA - DAY: The helicopter blades whirr. The Skull waits inside with Omar, who, with one hesitant look, steps inside. The chopper lifts off the lawn, the camera moving to the polo players exercising in the distance...a woman on a horse rides by and we swing with her towards the villa. Sosa walks Tony down an outside gallery towards the veranda where servants lay out the coffee and fruits.
SOSA: Of course not. Uh -- an associate of mine.   From Miami. Tony Montana... (to Tony) My fiance, Gabriella   Montini.
TONY: I gotta hand it to you. You got everything a man could want.
SOSA: (focusing the binoculars) I like you Tony. There's no lying in you.. .Unfortunately I don't feel the same way about the rest of your organization.
--: my word -- and I don't break 'em. and
CONTINUED: TONY (Cont'd) For nobody. That piece of shit up there I never liked, I never trusted.. For all I know he's the guy who set me up and got my buddy Angel Fernandez killed. But that's history.  I'm here.  He's not. You wanna go on with me, say it. You don't, make your move, hodedor!                (Xl
LOPEZ: (livid) You what! You made a deal for fucking eighteen million dollars without even checking with me! What are you crazy Montana, are you crazy!
TONY: Hey take it easy Frank, cone.
TONY: At 10.5 a key, it's pure Frank...we can`t lose money, no way, we make seventy-five million on this deal, Frank.   Seventy-five mill! That's serious money.
LOPEZ: Yeah and what's Sosa gonna do to me when I don't come up with the first five million dollars on this deal -- send me a bill? He's gonna send hit squads up here that's what. There's gonna be war in the streets.
LOPEZ: (ranting) You know what this fucking trial is costing me in legal fees, Montana?
TONY: You saying I'm not being straight                                          tx: with you Frank?
LOPEZ: Y'know I told you when you started Tony, the guys who last in this busi- ness are guys who fly straight, real low key, real quiet.. -the guys who want it all, the chicks and the cham- pagne and the flash -- they don't last. saying        nothing, goes          out     the    door   with   Manny.
SHEFFIELD: What can I do for you Montana?
TOM!: (indicates Manny) My partner. Manny Ray.
TONY: So George, they tell me you're the best lawyer in town.
SHEFFIELD: Did they also tell you how expensive I am?
TONY: Hey it's like J.P. Morgan says -- if you gotta ask, you're outta your league.
SHEFFIELD: I see you been reading your American history Montana, what've you done lately to earn a place in it?
TONY: (chuckles) I'm trying to stay outta it, y'know what I mean? I'm expanding my opera- tion. So I want a class guy like you on the payroll -- advising me.  Starting now.
SHEFFIELD: (a longer pause than usual) ...Start with a $100,000. the table.
TONY: (an equal pause} Sure....
ELVIRA: Tony?
TONY: Hi there.
ELVIRA.: ml.. -you   just missed Frank.
TONY: I didn't come here to see Frank.
ELVIRA: (cooling to him fast) This is not the time or the place. Next time make an appointment first.
TONY: I got something important to tell ya. Why don't you make some drinks and act normal.
TONY: I heard you was in Europe travelling 'round all by yourself. Woman like you shouldn't have to travel alone... (pause, no response) I been travelling myself.
ELVIRA: Broadening   your    intellect.   I heard.
TONY: What else d'you hear?
ELVIRA: I heard you and Frank aren't working together anymore.
TONY: Yeah.   It makes things easier this way, don't it?
TONY: Here's to the land of opportunity.
ELVIRA: For you maybe.
TONY: Hey, do you like kids?
ELVIRA: Kids? Sure, why not -- as long as there's a nurse.
TONY: Good.  Cause I like kids too. I like boys and girls.
ELVIRA: That's broad of you, Tony. Travelling really helped. Look, Frank's going
104   CONTINUED    -    2                                                                                104: to be back any moment and when he
OWNER: (indicating a table) Over here.
TONY: What the fuck is she doing here, she's.... (heading towards her) (stops him). Hey c'mon Tony, it's okay, it's just a disco for chrissake. What do you give her money for if you don't want her to go out, have some fun?
TONY: Who's she with? kid, he works for Luco, he's Some harmless....
TONY: Keep your eye on her. Make sure he don't dance too close. Sure Tony.
LARGE MAN: (intersecting) Hello Tony, you remember me?
TONY: (to the Large Man) Yeah, sure. You're... (snaps fingers trying to remember) ...Bernstein, right.   Mel          Bernstein. Narcotics,   right?
BERNSTEIN: (doodling on a piece of paper) There's an answer to that                 too....
TONY: (reacts) That's   a big number.
BERNSTEIN: That's on a monthly basis. Every month the same thing. You know how this works, don't you? We tell you who's moving against you, we shake down who you want shaken down, if you have a real problem in a collec- tion, we'll step in for you.   I got eight killers with badges working for me.   When we hit, it hurts-.-Same thing works the other way. You feed me a bust now and then, some new cowboy wants to go into business you let us know -- we like snacks, it looks good on the record.
TONY: S'pose I give you the             money, how do I                        (Xl know you're the last             bull I gotta grease?   What about DEA -- how do I know               what rock they're gonna come out from              under?
BERNSTEIN: That's none of our business,                 Tony,                       (Xl we don't cross no lines.
ELVIRA: Frank, this is ridiculous....
LOPEZ: C'mon! Angry, What     happened?
TONY: That cocksucker! -- He put that homicide prick Bernstein on me. What for?
TONY: The Emilio Rebenga hit.        Remember that. You're    kidding!
TONY: Who else knew about it? Omar's fertilizer, ain't he? Lopez is letting me know he's got weight on me. I don't know, things don't look so good here, Tony. Maybe we should get outta town for a while, y'know, go up to New York?
TONY: You go.   I like the weather here just fine.
CONTINUED: Fernando!
GINA: You got a nerve, Tony, you got a nerve!   You can't tell me what to do.   I'll do what I want to do. X'll go out with who I want and if I want to fuck them then 1'11 fuck them! across Tony stands there, abated. (tender) Come on, baby, it's okay. .-it's okay, he didn't mean it. (strokes her face)
TONY: (disturbed, to Manny) Get her home, get her outta here! Come on, pussycat,    I'll buy you    a cup of coffee.
GINA: ...He's got a nerve the way he acts! Mama's right. She says he hurts every- thing he touches. Well he's not gonna hurt me anymore. He`ll never see me again. Never! He loves you, what do you want. He feels he raised you.
GINA: He still thinks I'm fifteen. He's been in jail five years and he still thinks I'm fifteen! Hey,    you're the best thing he's got. The    only thing. He don't want you to grow    up to be like him. So he's got this    father thing for you, protect you....
GINA: (picks up on it) I like Fernando, he's a nice guy, he knows how to treat a woman. (a face) What future's he got? On a band- stand somewhere? He's a bum, Why don't you go out with somebody who's going somewhere?
GINA: Yeah, you.  I see the way you look at me -- Manolo Ribera.                                                    (X) (nervous) Hey, Tony's like my brother..                          You' re his kid sister, okay?
GINA: (taunting) You afraid of Tony? You                        afraid    of Tony's kid sister? Fuck           no....
GINA: You think about it, okay, you think about it real hard, Manny.  'Cause you don't know what you're missing....
OWNER: All right, you coneheads, another exciting evening at the Babylon, hunh?             (X) Now I want you to check out this next hombre.  I found him stoned in the jungle and there's nothing you'll ever see like him.  I present with great pride, 'from Caracas, Venezuela -- 'Octavia' !
CONTINUED                                                        113: ...except Tony and the clown, weaving in and out of the sharpening spotlight in his white face as the act comes to its close, a haunting figure of mockery.... Tony, absorbed by his thoughts, is lucky this time.     His antennae warn him.     Out of the side of his eye, he sees.... The two hitters moving on him. He sprawls. Machine gun fire rips through the upholstery, smashing the mirrors.... Screams,    crowd diving for cover.... Tony, hit in the shoulder, rolls, gets his Baretta out of his ankle, firing.... Hits one of the gunmen in the chest; the man staggers across the disco floor firing volleys into the mirrors and ceilings.... Tony moving under the tables, towards the door, firing.... The second hitter is pinned, firing back, breaking more mirrors, and more screaming. Tony lets the gunman have another burst then runs out the door, his clothes ripped with blood and'glass. The clown, Octavia,    lies dead on the silent dance floor.
DOCTOR: It's going to be sore for a few months.
TONY: Somebody else gonna be a lot sorer... (to Chi-Chi) Find out where Lopez is....
TONY'S VOICE: Miriam?     Yeah...Tony.   Manny there?
MIRIAM: Yeah... It's Tony. Tony cone, whatcha       doing   --    checking up on me,    too?
LOPEZ'S VOICE: .you're kidding! Three to two? Son of a bitch!... (cradling the phone) Guess what. My softball team, y'know, the Little Lopezers? They won the Division tonight. We're going to Sarasota for the State Championship...Hunh!
TONY: Yeah, lookit.  They spoiled one of my $800 suits.
CONTINUED: Jesus! Who? in his ripped suit, shoulder in a sling, face cut, Tony, shifts his eyes with camera slowly onto Mel Bernstein sitting there with a bourbon on the rocks, his two hundred and fifty pounds bulging with irritated surprise.
THE   WORLD -: Tony drinks it in.
BANKER: Tony, Tony -- it's no conspiracy, we're all doing it. You're not gonna find a better deal.
TONY: Then fuck you, I'll fly the cash to the Bahamas myself.
BANKER: You gonna fly it yourself, Tony -- on a regular basis? Once maybe.    And then what?   You gonna trust some monkey in a Bahamian bank with twenty million of your hard-earned dollars? C'mon Tony, don't be a schmuck -- who else can you trust?  That's why you pay us what you do -- you trust us.
BANKER: Stay with us, you're an old and well- liked customer. You're in good hands with us.. .gentlemen,    I gotta run. H OW 's married life? Say hello to the princess for me -- okay.     She's beautiful. you.   Take care.
TONY: That prick, that WASP whore. Jhat's he think I am, some maricon on a boat.... So why don't we talk to this Jew Seidelbaum?  He's got his own exchange, he charges four percent tops -- and he's connected.
TONY: (eyes wandering across to another video monitor) You get the house sweeped          this month? The cars? Yeah, sure, I told you that.              Five thousand it set us back.
TONY: Hey  Manny when does it take             three days to rig a cable, hunh? cops.
TONY: What if it's the Diaz brothers? What if they're gonna come and get me? I'll    check it out.
TONY: You check it out, then we're gonna                blow that fuckin' truck back to Bogota.
TONY: Hey you got some attitude y'know Manny -- for a guy in charge of my security. Hey I'll check it out.   I'm just telling you we're spending too much on this counter-surveillance shit. Twelve percent y'know, of our adjusted gross -- that's not pocket money.
TONY: I seen him every day.           'Bout   a   week now. So the guy     jogs    around the neighbor- hood. He's     some     fat accountant.
TONY: How the fuck    do you know what he is? Hey if he's a cop don't you think running in circles around a house is a pretty dumb way to watch it?
TONY: Maybe  not... (walks away, stops, looks back) I'm telling you we're getting sloppy -- our thinking -- our attitude. We're not fucking    hungry anymore!
ELVIRA: And what about you Tony? Can't you stop talking about it all the time, can't you stop saying fuck? -- it's boring, it's boring!
ELVIRA: You're boring. Money, money, money! That's all I hear in this house. Frank never talked about money.
ELVIRA: You know what you've become Tony -- an arriviste, an immigrant spit millionaire who can't stop talking.
TONY: Me and Nick'11 take care              of   it.    You stay out of it. (very surprised) It's my deal. why!
TONY: You stink as a negotiator, that's why. You like the ladies more'n you do the money -- that's your problem Manny. Hey wait a second, I'm your partner Tony, you can't trust me, who the fuck can you trust?.
TONY: I'm in charge. Do as I say. You go to Atlanta, you handle the Gomez delivery there. (a     beat) lissen to your You oughta                           wife, muchacho.      You    are   an    asshole.
TONY: (to himself) Puck you too... what do you know, who the hell put things together;..me! .Who do I trust -- me, that's who....
LUIS: . I . yeah back then I worked in pictures down in Columbia. Burn, y'ever see it?.. with Marlon Brando. We're good friend.      I was his driver....
NICK: (stacking) Oh yeah?
..: . Gillo Pontecorvo, he was the director. Italian guy.
NICK THE PIG: That so? Say, you know Benny Alvarez there?
LUIS: uh.. . .
SEIDELBAUM: (interrupting to Tony) Now you want a company check             here for $283,107.65?
SEIDELBAUM: (pauses, looks again at his figures) No, that's just not possible. The machine don't make mistakes.
SEIDELBAUM: (exasperated) Okay, you keep the change okay, I don't give a shit.
LUIS: (consulting his notes) Seven checks.    A million three hundred twenty-five and six hundred twenty-three                                     (Xl ...plus eighteen cents.
SEIDELBAUM: You're under federal arrest, Montana, for a continuing criminal conspiracy. The Rico Statute. Get 'em up.
SHEFFIELD: . ..you     give me a check for a hundred grand plus three hundred in cash and I guarantee you walk on the conspiracy charge.  But they're gonna come back at us on        a    tax   evasion    --   and they'll get it.
SHEFFIELD: Five years, you'll be out in three, maybe less if I can make a deal.
SHEFFIELD: I'll delay the trial.  A year and a half, two years, you won't start doing time till '85.
TONY: they never get me back in a No...no, cage.. -never!  HeyI George I go another four hundred grand -- I go 800,000 dollars, okay? With that you can fix the Supreme Court, hunh?
SHEFFIELD: Tony.. .the law has to prove 'beyond a reasonable doubt.'   I'm an expert at raising that doubt but when you got a million three undeclared dollars staring into a videotape camera, honeybaby, it's hard to convince a jury you found it in a taxi cab.
TONY: All right-.-all     right. I do the three fuckin' years but lemme tell you about my law, George.     It's real simple.   There's no 'reasonable doubt.'   If you're rain-making the judge or you fuck me for the four hundred grand and I come in guilty on the big rap -- you, the judge, the prosecutor, nothing's gonna stop I'm gonna come and tear me, y'hear? your fuckin' eyeballs out.
SHEFFIELD: (cool) The point is made. Now where's the money?
SOSA: (rising) Tony...Tony.
TONY: Alex.
SOSA: I'm glad you made it on such short notice.    I appreciate it.      How`s Elvira?
SOSA: And you, when are you going to have another Tony to take your place.
TONY: (sore point) I'm working on it.
SOSA: General Eduardo Strasser, Commander of the First Army Corps...Tony  Montana.
SOSA: Nicky, have Albert0 meet us in the living  room.
INTERVIEWER: I've heard whispers, Doctor Gutierrez, about the financial support your govern- ment receives from the drug industry in Bolivia.
GUTIERFSZ: The irony, of course, is that this money -- which is in the billions, J i m - - is coming from your country. You are the major purchaser of our national product -- which of course is cocaine.
INTERVIEWER: So what you're saying Doctor Gutierrez is the United States Government is spending millions of dollars to eliminate the flow of drugs into our streets and at the same time is
-     -    -: doing business with the very same government that floods those' streets with cocaine.. -that's a bit like robbing Peter to pay Paul, isn't it?
GUTIERRBZ: (laughs) Let me show you some of the other characters in the comedy, Jim...my organization just recently traced a purchase by this man ---
GUTXERREZ: . . . here he is, the charming face belongs to General Cucombre, the Defense Minister of my country.     Two months ago he bought a twelve million dollar villa on-Lake Lucerne in Now if he's supposed Switzerland. to be the Bolivian Defense Minister, what's he doing living in Switzerland? Guarding the cash register?
SOSA: .I.a   Communist   -- financed      by   Moscow.
CONTINUED: Albert0    nods icily, remains         standing    adjacent.
TONY: (waves to them) Hi folks, don't get up. Anyway, Vie, check it out.   I heard like it was 220 kilos went down. That means twenty is missing, right? Ask your friends, the cops, about that -- and keep up the good work, Vie, but don't believe everything you hear, y'know what I mean? Okay, have a good dinner, nice to meet you people. (reproving) Hey, Tony, that's not                  cool,    he's     got   a lotta friends in....
TONY: I don't give a fuck.   He's an ass- hole!   Never fucking tells the truth That's the trouble in this on TV! country.   Nobody fucking tells the truth!
.   1   .: happened down there with Sosa?
TONY: (ignoring the question) Is this it? Is that what it's all about, Manny?  Eating, drinking, snorting, fucking? Then what? You're fifty and you got a bag for a belly and tits with hair on 'em and your liver's got spots and you're looking like these rich fuckin' mummies in here? Is that what it's all about? It's    not       so    bad    Tony,     could    be      worse....
ELVIRA: How dare you talk to me like that! You call yourself a man! What makes you so much better than me, what do you do? Deal drugs? Kill people? Oh that's just wonderful Tony -- a real contribution to human history. You want a kid. What kind of father do you think you'd make, Tony? What kind of stories are you going to tell the kid before he goes to sleep at night? You going to drive him to school in the mornings, Tony? You really think you're still going to be alive by the time he goes to school, Tony? You're dreaming, Tony, you're dreaming!
TONY: You're all assholes. You know why? 'Cause none of you got the guts to be what you want to be.
TONY                                                                                               178: sees     it. A cop car comes cruising off the avenue up the street, towards us, Ground level -- the Shadow continues to wind his black tape trying to secure the bomb as tight as possible. Tony     hurries     to     the    car,    bends   down.
_: Sheffield keep his nose out of it, there's not gonna be no trial, I got everything under control, yeah...Have you heard from Elvira?
WY?: away.
TONY: (snorting through his mouth) Nah he's no Communist. He's a kinda                               (Xl symbol, that's what he is.
TONY: It's like when you die, your life meant something to somebody, y'know? It wasn't like you just lived it for yourself, but you did something for the rest of the human race too....
TONY: Me, I wanna die fast.  With my name written in lights all over the sky. Tony Montana. He died doin' it.
CHI-CHI: Whatcha talking 'bout Tony,            you ain't gonna die.
TONY: (doesn't hear him) ...So I'll end up in a coffin. So what? The cockroach fires the bullet's gonna end up in a coffin just like me. But I lived better when I was here. And that's what counts.
TONY: (English) Hey okay I don't give a shit where, okay, you can blow him up when you like okay, just tell me okay -- when you like.
TONY: (English) Hey okay I heard you the the first time. One time okay. Just tell me one time. (snorts)
CONTINUED: _ (Spanish) No! Mr. Sosa says we do it now. We do it. Co
TONY: (about to hang up, pauses) uh -- how 'bout Elvie --                 did    she     call?
TONY: Yeah, okay, okay...listen if she calls, tell her I love her, okay?
ERNIE: No Tony. Your mama called again. She gotta see you. And Sosa's been ringing every half-hour on the eleven line.   Tony, he sounds pissed, he....
TONY: You keep trying Manny.                     I need that cocksucker, you hear, I                    need him here! Okay?
TONY: Who the fuck you think you're talkin' to, hunh! Whatta you think I am? Your fuckin' slave! You don't tell me what to do, Sosa.   You ' re shit!   You want a war, you got it?
TONY: The Grove? Where'd she get that kinda money? You ! You were giving her the money, what do you think -- don't you see what you do to her, don't you....
TONY: That's right! That's      right.   What did you expect!,., (interrupFg) .that's what you brought into this i&use.   If I were to listen to you, you would convert my house into your gangster headquarters....
TONY: .What do you expect now? To be You got no love in you, Mama. iAed:, What do you think Papi left for? And               (Xl Gina? At least I didn't walk around with my head hanging down between my legs my whole fuckin' life.   Like Papi -- like the way you made Papi feel. I made something outta my life. I'm somebody and I'm proud of it. (interrup=) Somebody?   You're proud? You're a nothing. You're an animal! God help me, what have I done to you? You were a beautiful baby.  I used to watch you sleep.  So beautiful. How? How, Dies Santo, did you become such               (Xl a monster, such an ugly little monster.... Tony slams the door, we hold a beat on her face -- as she had finally answered her own questions.
TONY: (to Chi-Chi) Wait here. the pause. The door opens casually. Standing             there (surprised) Tony?   .-
GINA: Tony! (eyes suddenly moving downward in alarm) Hey Tony, c'mon       we   was....
GINA: Tony! No!
GINA: We got married just yesterday. We were gonna surprise you.
GINA: Manolo, oh Manolo, what'd                  he     do?.. What'd he do?
TONY: ...I said to you, Manny, I said I never go crazy and you said, I would you sonofabitch and you was right... those were the good days hunh, we was crazy back in those days, we'd do anything, you and me, we was on the way up, nobody nothing coulda stopped us cause we were the best hunh --   the   fucking      best....
CHI-CHI: Boss !    Hey boss.     Open up!
TONY: Cheeee!
TONY: So you wanna play hunh, say hello                    (XI to my little friend here.
"THE WORLD IS YOURS": And so, for the brief moment, it was.
