SWEET SMELL OF SUCCESS: by Clifford Odets Ernest Lehman
"GO WITH THE GLOBE": Read
J.J. HUNSECKER: "They eyes of Broadway"
IGGY: Aw Lady, if I looked like you, I'd--
SIDNEY: C'mon...C'mon...
IGGY: (recognizing Sidney's voice) Keep ya sweatshirt on, Sidney.
IGGY: Hey, Fresh, the Globe just came in -- Hey, Sidney, want an item for Hunsecker's column?  Two rolls get fresh with a baker!  Hey, hot, hot, hot -- etc.
SALLY: Just a minute, Mr. Weldon.  I think...
SALLY: (to phone) I'm sorry.  I thought that was Mr. Falco returning.  Yes, I'll tell him when he comes in.  I know he's been trying to reach you.
SALLY: That's the third time he's called today.
SIDNEY: He wants me to break a leg?
SALLY: (literally) No, an arm, he said. (then) I told him you were sure the item would be in Mr. Hunsecker's column in tomorrow's...
SIDNEY: (interrupting, sharply) It isn't.  I've just seen the early edition.
SALLY: But...
SIDNEY: But what?
SALLY: That makes five days in a row that Mr. Hunsecker's cut you out of his column.
SIDNEY: May I rent you out as an adding machine.
SIDNEY: Get me Joe Robard.
SIDNEY: Who else phoned?
SALLY: The renting agent and the tailor.
SIDNEY: Pay the rent.  Let the tailor wait.
SALLY: It won't leave much of a balance in the bank... (to phone) Mr. Robard?  Could you locate him?
SIDNEY: (gloomily) Watch me run a fifty yard dash with my legs cut off!
SIDNEY: (effusively) Sidney, Joe.  How do you like it? I'm running out of alibis!  No, I asked Hunsecker to withhold the item, until he could give it a fine, fat paragraph.  The column was running over and I didn't want you kissed off with just a line...
ROBARD: (in answer to Sidney) Of course. (he listens to protest from Sidney) What is this, Sidney, a kissing game?  You're a liar - that's a publicity man's nature.  I wouldn't hire you if you wasn't a liar.  I pay you a C-and-a-half a week wherein you plant big lies about me and the Club all over the map. (a pause) Yeah, I mean in that sense.  But also in the sense that you are a personal liar, too, because you don't do the work I pay you for. (new protests on the other end of the line) Oh, stop it, Sidney.  You're from the country, not me.
SIDNEY: (to phone) Now, wait a minute, Joe.  When I saw J.J. last night he said...
SALLY: I wish I could help in some way, Sidney.
SIDNEY: (aggressively) Help me with two minutes of silence!
SIDNEY: Go home, Sally.  It's late...
SALLY: I hate to see you like this --
SIDNEY: (horsing around) Yes, but as a new subscriber you're under no obligation to take more than three books.  And if you mail the enclosed card within ten days --
SALLY: (pleadingly) Sidney, I know you by now.  Don't do a dance with me...
SIDNEY: (still clowning) You mean you don't want the extra free gift of a colorful giant map of the world???
SALLY: (distressed) Sidney, please, dear, if you feel nervous...
SIDNEY: (with cruelty) So what'll you do if I feel nervous? You'll open your meaty, sympathetic arms...?
SALLY: (breaking down) Sid...you got me so...I don't know what...
SIDNEY: You ought to be used to me by now.
SALLY: (pathetically) I'm used to you...
SIDNEY: (with a touch of bitterness) No.  You think I'm a hero.  I'm no hero.  I'm nice to people where it pays me to be.  I gotta do it too much on the outside, so don't expect me to kow-tow in my own office.  I'm in a bind right now with Hunsecker so -- (grimly) Every dog has his day! (going) Lock up and leave the key.
SIDNEY: If that's for me, tear it up!
SALLY: Take a top coat.
SIDNEY: And leave a tip in every hat-check room in town?
SALLY: Sidney Falco office... Oh, Miss Kay, he tried to reach you.  No, he's at the barbers now.  No, that's held over till the Tuesday column...
RITA: Don't you ever get messages, Eyelashes?  I called you twice.
SIDNEY: (irked) I've been up to here.  Listen, honey, tell me something.  You know Susan Hunsecker...? (Rita nods) Has she been in?  I mean lately, in the last coupla days...?
RITA: I don't think so.
SIDNEY: You're sure.  Find out for me.
RITA: (with a nod) Sidney, can I talk to you a minute?
SIDNEY: Is Frank D'Angelo around?
RITA: At the bar - Sidney...
D'ANGELO: (to the bartender) Joe, give my nephew a drink.
SIDNEY: (sullen) Your nephew doesn't want a drink.
D'ANGELO: That's a lollipop that, boy.  The kid is only great.
SIDNEY: And with ten percent of his future, you're great, too, Frank.
D'ANGELO: Went over to Philly yesterday an' seen the folks...it's nice you send them the fifty a month...
SIDNEY: (after a pause) See my mother?
D'ANGELO: (shaking his head) I only had a few hours.
D'ANGELO: Thanks for the publicity spread you got the boys for the benefit tomorrow.
SIDNEY: (begrudgingly) Robard's my client.  I did it for him and his club, not your boys.
SIDNEY: (quietly) Frank, I think maybe you lied to me.
D'ANGELO: (quietly) Looka, Sidney, you're my own sister's son, but where does that give you the right to call me a liar?
SIDNEY: (looking towards Steve) You told me that your boy was washed up with Susie Hunsecker, didn't you?
D'ANGELO: Yeah, and it's the truth, to the best of my knowledge.  And, frankly, I'm glad.  For Steve's sake, I'm glad, not yours.  I manage these boys and I got their best interests at heart.  Steve shouldn't get mixed up with no bimbo at his age.
SIDNEY: (narrowly) You told him that?
D'ANGELO: Not in those exact words - you know what a temper he's got.
SIDNEY: When do these hot-headed boys of yours go on the road?
D'ANGELO: Coupla weeks.  For eight weeks.
SIDNEY: That's a nice tour.  All booked? (Frank nodding) When was Susie around here last?
D'ANGELO: Four five nights ago.  That's how I know the romance is off.  Also Steve's in a very bad mood.
SIDNEY: (abruptly) Listen, Frank, you'd better make sure you're telling me the truth.
D'ANGELO: (annoyed) I don't like this threatening attitude.  When it comes to it, what the heck is it your business what they do, this boy and girl...
SIDNEY: If you knew Hunsecker as well as I did, you might understand why it's my business.  Maybe you're walking around blind, Frank, without a cane.
SIDNEY: ...and in case you didn't know it, Susie Hunsecker's out there on the back step right now.
CHICO: Hi!  Susie...
SUSAN: Hello, Chico.  Paul.
CHICO: (to Paul) Throw a rope round this chick while I go get Steve.
SUSAN: Full house...?
PAUL: Packin' 'em in.
DEVOTEE: I'm terribly interested in jazz -- serious jazz.  You studied with Milhaud, didn't you?  This is such an interesting fusion of the traditional, classical form with the new progressive style, I just wanted to ask you how you came to form the group...-
STEVE: Well, we just sort of got together. (turning to introduce Fred) Maybe if you ask Mr. Katz...He writes the stuff, you know.
FRED: (blankly) Huh?
CHICO: Don't waste your time there, man. You've got something better waiting outside... (as Steve looks at him) Susie's out there.
STEVE: What did she say...?
CHICO: You proposed to her, not me. (slapping him on the back) Go get your answer...
SUSAN: (in a whisper) Steve...I'll...I'll try to make a good wife.
SIDNEY: Hi, Fellows.  Where's the Chief?
FRED: Who?
SIDNEY: (who gets the point) Dallas.  Is he around?
CHICO: (unhelpfully) Yeah, he's around somewhere. Upstairs, maybe.
SIDNEY: (coldly, as he goes) Thanks.
STEVE: (incoherent) This is big, you know.  Very big! Let's go out later, drink some firewater.  With the boys.  Fred can call Millie and -
SUSAN: Steve, I'd rather you didn't say anything for a day or two...until I tell my brother...
STEVE: (gently) You haven't told him yet...
SUSAN: I'm telling him in the morning after breakfast.
STEVE: He isn't going to like it.
STEVE: You sure you don't want me to be with you...?
SUSAN: Steve, my brother isn't as bad as he's painted.  He isn't perfect, but -
STEVE: But he isn't going to like this, Susie.  And he makes you nervous, not me.  No, I take that back - he makes me nervous, too.  But I wouldn't give him a second thought if not for you.
SUSAN: Let's forget him and -
STEVE: His stooge, Falco, is around - I saw him walk in. (soberly) He's been spying on me for weeks, Susie.
SUSAN: (quickly, perhaps too quickly) Darling, I don't care - really I don't.  Sidney'd had a secret crush on me for years, but nothing we do is his business -
STEVE: (gently insisting) But he could be reporting back to your brother, couldn't he?
SUSAN: (pleading) Steve, dear, please forget all of this.  What can it matter after tomorrow?
STEVE: (softly) I have a message for you; I love you. (kissing her lightly) May I dedicate the next number to you?...And the next, and the next. Every Sunday I'll buy you a new bonnet -
SUSAN: (amused, but moved) If the stores are open -
STEVE: And on Monday, I'll take it off and stroke your light brown hair and -
SUSAN: And on Tuesday - Hasenpfeffer.
STEVE: (abruptly grinning) How do you think I realized I love you?
SUSAN: I made you write a beautiful song...
STEVE: No, you had me eating that Chinese food!...
SIDNEY: Can more than two enjoy this joke... (to Susan) Hello, Susie, I didn't expect to find you here.
SIDNEY: Where's those glossy prints you promised?  Tonight's the latest I can place them -
STEVE: (barely polite) Well, thanks, anyway - let's forget it. (to Susan) It's cold out here, Susie.
SIDNEY: (lightly sarcastic) Let me apologize for getting you that press spread.  It's been an honor to serve you gratis.
STEVE: (levelly) I get the feeling, Falco, that you're always snooping around...
SUSAN: (quickly intervening) Steve, stop it please...
D'ANGELO: What are you boys fighting about?
SIDNEY: (sarcastic) Kill me!  Find me a door somewhere - I walked in without knocking!
STEVE: I'm feeling too good to fight with you, but that isn't what I said - I said you snoop.  For instance, what were you doing around my hotel the other night?
SIDNEY: (needling) Begging your pardon, I haven't been down the bowery in years!
D'ANGELO: (soothingly) Come on boys, break it up...
STEVE: (overriding D'Angelo) The next time you want information, Falco, don't scratch for it like a dog - ask for it like a man!
SIDNEY: If you're going home, Susie, I'll drop you off...
CHICO: (easily) Time for the next set, Chief...
STEVE: Just a minute, Chico.
STEVE: (fondly) Just so you don't leave me in a minor key.
SIDNEY: Don't tell me you started a polka with Leo Bartha?
RITA: (shaking her head) No.  That's what I mean - I'm being fired for what I didn't do.
RITA: (soto voce) He came in last week on a very dull rainy night.  I know who he was, but I didn't let on. (emphatically) He didn't take his eyes off me all night.  Listening...?
SIDNEY: Avidly.  He was staring.
RITA: (continuing) Staring.  Consequently, when he approached me on his way out I wasn't surprised, but I didn't let on.
SIDNEY: (prompting) He was writing a special Sunday piece on...?
RITA: (nodding) ...cigarette girls... And naturally -
SIDNEY: You were thrilled to be interviewed. (she nods) Were you "interviewed"?
RITA: In his apartment -
SIDNEY: And where was his wife?
RITA: I don't know - it's a big apartment. But I wasn't interviewed.  In fact, I was totally unprepared for what happened.
SIDNEY: (grimacing) We're old friends, Chickie - quit it!  A big columnist comes in this room, without his ball-and-chain and you make like a delicatessen counter!  What did you think would happen in his house?
RITA: (with a nod) But, Sidney darling, the man must be out of his mind - it was only eleven o'clock in the morning!
RITA: For a moment I was so taken aback that I said anything that popped into my sleepy head.  If I'm not mistaken, I even ordered the man out of his own house.
RITA: (rapidly) He was furious and, by the time I could have put on a Tropical Island mood, I was out on the street!... (dolefully) That night Mr. Van Cleve calls me into his office here.  He's got nothing against me, he says but he can't afford to antagonize columnists.  I told him I still have Sonny at military academy, but Van Cleve's made of ice...
RITA: (tentative) Do you think you could do something, Sidney?
SIDNEY: (a quick nod) That's what I'm thinking, Rita. Maybe...
RITA: Do you still keep your key under the mat?
SIDNEY: (eyeing her) Can you be there by two-thirty?
STEVE: Frank, I don't want any secrets from you.  I proposed to Susie tonight.
D'ANGELO: Did she accept?
STEVE: You don't like it, do you.  I think she will accept, but I'm not sure. She may be too dependent on her brother.
D'ANGELO: (solemnly) Lots of good people in this town are dependent on her brother...
SUSAN: You're touchy, Sidney - don't be so touchy...
SIDNEY: (gruffly) I wasn't looking for a brawl.  I came to bring him a present. (then) Wanna bite to eat?
SIDNEY: Feels like a Monday night, don't it...?
SUSAN: (softly) Not to me.  Sometimes, the world feels like a cage.  Then someone comes along and opens the door...and it's never Monday night again... (turning to Sidney) I wish you and Steve could like each other.
SIDNEY: (grimacing) We stick in each others craw.
SUSAN: Yes, but why?
SIDNEY: Well, for one thing, he thinks J.J. is some kind of monster.
SUSAN: Don't you?
SIDNEY: Susie, your brother's one of my best friends, and -
SUSAN: I know.  But someday I'd like to look into your clever mind and see what you REALLY think of him -
SIDNEY: Where do you come off to make a remark like that?
SUSAN: (quietly) Who could love a man who keeps jumping through burning hoops, like a trained poodle?
SUSAN: (thoughtfully) Do you think J.J. likes Steve...?
SIDNEY: (glibly) Frankly, yes, to my surprise.  He thinks he's very gifted - those boys'll go a big mile, he thinks.
SIDNEY: (gently) You feel pretty strong about this boy?
SIDNEY: Wedding bells, you mean?
SUSAN: He wants me to go on the road with them.  It's an eight month tour, all the way to Oregon...
SIDNEY: Well, congratulations.  But don't go just for the ride!  Or didn't you accept the proposal?
SUSAN: I'm going to discuss it with J.J. in the morning.
SUSAN: (softly) It's given me a big lift to know that some people want me for myself, not just because I'm my brother's sister.
SIDNEY: Chickie, I'll have to laugh at that - an attractive girl like you...!
SUSAN: I hope that J.J. really likes Steve, that it isn't an act.
SIDNEY: (with an indignant edge) Why should he put on an act?  Your brother has told PRESIDENTS where to go and what to do!
SUSAN: The act would be for my sake, not Steve's...
SIDNEY: (to cabbie) Wait for me.  I'll be right back.
SIDNEY: (lightly) It's not my nature, Susie, but I'll talk to you like an uncle...
SUSAN: (smiling) But I don't need an uncle, Sidney.
SIDNEY: No, I mean because I admire you - in fact, more than admire you - although that's neither here nor there. (quickly skipping to the important point) Susie, don't sell your brother short.  Talk this over with him, I mean - you'll find him a real friend.
SIDNEY: Any message, in case I see J.J. later?
SUSAN: Yes.  Tell him for me that Steve Dallas is the first real man I've ever been in love with...
SIDNEY: The Twenty One Club.
SIDNEY: Jimmy!  This is a coincidence.  I am just going -
WELDON: (overlapping) Yeah.  A coincidence you should run into the very man you've been ducking all week! (to the girl) This is my press agent, Joan.
SIDNEY: (quickly) I tried to reach you twice -
WELDON: (overlapping) What do you do for that hundred a week.  Fall out of bed?
SIDNEY: Jimmy, I'm on my way inside right now to talk to Hunsecker.  I can promise you -
WELDON: (horsing) Joan, call a cop!  We'll arrest this kid for larceny!
SIDNEY: Listen, when your band was playing at Roseland -
WELDON: (cutting in) That was two months ago.  Take your hand out of my pocket, thief!
THE GIRL: Take it easy, Jimmy dear...
WELDON: (indignantly) Why?  It's a dirty job, but I pay clean money for it, don't I?
SIDNEY: No more you don't!  What is this - You're showing off for her?  They're supposed to hear you in Korea?
WELDON: (smirking to the girl) He's intuitive - he knows he's getting fired!
SIDNEY: If you're funny, James, I'm a pretzel!  Drop dead!
WELDON: It was nice knowing you, Sidney. Not cheap - but nice.  Happy unemployment insurance.
CAPTAIN: How are you tonight, Mr. Falco?
SIDNEY: (nodding towards the restaurant) Is "he" inside?
CAPTAIN: But of course...
SIDNEY: Alone or surrounded?
CAPTAIN: A Senator, an Agent and Something - With - Long - Red - Hair.
SIDNEY: Honey, get me Mr. Hunsecker.
OPERATOR: He's right inside, Mr. Falco.
SIDNEY: (from inside the booth) So it isn't Long Distance.
SIDNEY: (to phone) J.J.?  It's me --
SIDNEY: J.J., it's Sidney.  Can you come outside for one minute?
HUNSECKER (O.S.): Can I come out?  No.
SIDNEY: (tensely) I have to talk to you, alone, J.J., that's why.
HUNSECKER (O.S.): You had something to do for me - you didn't do it.
SIDNEY: Can I come in for a minute?
HUNSECKER (O.S.): No.  You're dead, son - get yourself buried!
HUNSECKER: I'll check it in the morning, Low - thanks.
HUNSECKER: (softly) Harvey, I often wish I were dead and wore a hearing aid...with a simple flick of a switch I could shut out the greedy murmur of little men...
SIDNEY: J.J., I need your ear for two minutes...
HUNSECKER: Mac!  I don't want this man at my table...
SIDNEY: (quickly but quietly interrupting) I have a message from your sister.
HUNSECKER: Forgive me, Harvey.  We were interrupted before -
SENATOR: (who is mildly surprised and faintly embarrassed) Err...the Supreme Court story, I was telling you - Justice Black.
HUNSECKER: (nodding) Yes, the Justice, that's right. But I think you had it in the column.
SIDNEY: (smoothly, casually) Last July, the lead item...
SENATOR: (laughing) And I believe that's precisely where I read it, too.  You see, J.J., where I get my reputation for being the best-informed man in Washington.
HUNSECKER: Now don't kid a kidder.
SENATOR: I don't think we caught your name, young man.
SIDNEY: Sidney Falco, sir.  And, of course, everyone knows and admires you, Senator Walker.
SENATOR: (humorously) Every four years I get less convinced of that.  This young lady is Miss Linda James. (indicates the Girl) She's managed by Manny Davis. (he indicates the Agent)
SIDNEY: I know Manny Davis.
HUNSECKER: (quietly) Everyone knows Manny Davis... (as the phone rings on the table) ...except MRS. Manny Davis.
HUNSECKER: Yes?  Go ahead, Billy - shoot...
HUNSECKER: Uh huh.  Sports cars in California are getting smaller and smaller...the other day you were crossing Hollywood Boulevard and you were hit by one...you had to go to the hospital and have it removed... (coolly) You're not following the column: I had it last week.
SIDNEY: Do you believe in capital punishment, Senator?
SENATOR: Why?
SIDNEY: (pointing to the phone) A man has just been sentenced to death...
HUNSECKER: Manny, what exactly are the UNSEEN gifts of this lovely young thing that you manage...?
AGENT: Well, she sings a little...you know, sings...
GIRL: (by rote) Manny's faith in me is simply awe- inspiring, Mr. Hunsecker.  Actually, I'm still studying, but -
HUNSECKER: What subject?
GIRL: Singing, of course...straight concert and -
HUNSECKER: Why "of course"?  It might, for instance, be politics...
GIRL: Me?  I mean "I"?  Are you kidding, Mr. Hunsecker?  With my Jersey City brains?
HUNSECKER: The brains may be Jersey City, but the clothes are Trainor-Norell.
SENATOR: Are you an actor, Mr. Falco?
GIRL: (supporting the change of subject) That's what I was thinking.  Are you, Mr. Falco?
HUNSECKER: How did you guess it, Miss James?
GIRL: He's so pretty, that's how.
HUNSECKER: Mr. Falco, let it be said at once, is a man of FORTY faces, not one, none too pretty and ALL deceptive. See that grin?  It's the charming street urchin's face.  It's part of his "helpless" act - he throws himself on your mercy.  I skip the pleading nervous bit that sometimes blends over into bluster.  The moist grateful eye is a favorite face with him - it frequently ties in with the act of boyish candor: he's talking straight from the heart, get it?  He's got about half-a-dozen faces for the ladies, but the real cut one to me is the quick dependable chap - nothing he won't do for you in a pinch.  At least, so he says!  Tonight Mr. Falco, whom I did not invite to sit at this table, is about to show in his last and most pitiful role: pale face with tongue hanging out. In brief, gentlemen and Jersey Lilly, the boy sitting with us is a hungry press agent and fully up to all the tricks of his very slimy trade!
HUNSECKER: (quietly) Match me, Sidney...
SIDNEY: (coolly) Not just this minute, J.J....
HUNSECKER: I know - that loafer of yours opens at the Latin Quarter next week. (more sharply) Say goodbye, Lester!
SENATOR: May I ask a naive question, Mr. Falco?  Exactly how does a press agent work...?
HUNSECKER: Why don't you answer the man, Sidalee?  He's trying to take you off the hook.
SIDNEY: (to the Senator) You just had a good example of it. A press agent eats a columnists dirt and is expected to call it manna.
GIRL: What's manna?
HUNSECKER: Heaven dust.
SENATOR: But don't you help columnists by furnishing them with items?
SIDNEY: Sure, columnists can't get along without us.  Only our good and great friend, J.J., forgets to mention that.  We furnish him with items -
HUNSECKER: What, some cheap, gruesome gags?
SIDNEY: (to Hunsecker now) You print them, don't you?
HUNSECKER: Yes, with your clients' names attached.  That's the only reason those poor slobs pay you - to see their names in my column all over the world!  Now, as I make it out, you're doing ME a favor!
SIDNEY: I didn't say that, J.J.
HUNSECKER: The day that I can't get along without press agents' handouts, I'll close up shop, lock, stock and barrel and move to Alaska.
AGENT: (nodding) Sweep out my igloo, here I come.
HUNSECKER: (to the Agent) Look, Manny, you rode in here on the Senator's shirt tails, so shut your mouth!
SENATOR: (slowly) Now, come, J.J., that's a little too harsh.  Anyone seems fair game for you tonight.
HUNSECKER: (not as harsh, but -) This man is not for you, Harvey, and you shouldn't be seen with him in public.  Because that's another part of a press agents life - he digs up scandal among prominent men and shovels it thin among the columnists who give him space.
SENATOR: There is some allusion here that escapes me...
HUNSECKER: (an edge of threat) We're friends, Harvey - we go as far back as when you were a fresh kid Congressman, don't we?
SENATOR: Why does everything you say sound like a threat?
HUNSECKER: Maybe it's a mannerism - because I don't threaten friends, Harvey. But why furnish your enemies with ammunition?  You're a family man. Someday, with God willing, you may wanna be President.  Now here you are, Harvey, out in the open where any hep person knows that this one...
HUNSECKER: (continuing) ...is toting THAT one...
HUNSECKER: (continuing) ...around for you...
HUNSECKER: (continuing) ...Are we kids or what?...
HUNSECKER: (to the Senator, affably) Next time you come up, you might join me at my TV show.
SENATOR: (quietly and cautiously) Thank you, J.J., for what I consider sound advice.
HUNSECKER: (deadpan) Go, Thou, and sin no more.
HUNSECKER: Mac, don't let the Senator pay that check...
CAPTAIN: I'll take care of it, Mr. Hunsecker.
HUNSECKER: (murmuring) President!  My big toe would make a better President!
ATTENDANT: Mr. Hunsecker's coat, Joe.
HUNSECKER: Find me a good one, Joe.
HUNSECKER: Dan, anyone calls, tell 'em I'll be at the Morocco, maybe the Embers.
DAN: Very good, Mr. Hunsecker.
HUNSECKER: Where's your coat, Sidalee?  Saving tips?
HUNSECKER: (to Sidney) My curiosity is killing me; what are you so rambunctious about tonight?
SIDNEY: There's your fat friend.
HUNSECKER: (as he approaches) Hello, Harry.
KELLO: (cheerfully) Bonna sera, commendatore.  Come sta?
HUNSECKER: (turning to Sidney) You see, Sidalee, that shows that Lt. Kello likes your people.
KELLO: It's my Brooklyn background, J.J. I'm good on Yiddish, too.
HUNSECKER: Harry, am I supposed to say "uncle"?
HUNSECKER: Anything fit to print, tonight? (to the policeman in the car) Hello, Phil.  How're the kids.
PHIL: Fine, Mr. Hunsecker.
HUNSECKER: Any news fit to print tonight?
KELLO: (joining Hunsecker) I just checked "downtown".  Quiet everywhere tonight.
HUNSECKER: Incidentally, what happened to that doll? - You gave me the item last night.  Still alive?
KELLO: Yeah.  At Bellevue.  Still hanging on.  But they still don't know if she was pushed.
HUNSECKER: She mighta jumped.  Love suicide? (to the policeman in the car) Check it for me, Phil...it's a real heart throb.
HUNSECKER: (to Kello) Say hello to Sidney Falco.  Tickle him - he's been a bad boy tonight. He called you my fat friend.
KELLO: (mildly) I don't believe it.
SIDNEY: I know...I know you're the strongest cop in town.
KELLO: (with a laugh) I call him the boy with the ice cream face!
HUNSECKER: (laughing) Say, that's good - it's nice - in fact, it's APT, Harry!
KELLO: (modestly) Yeah, I got eyes.  I put things together.
HUNSECKER: I remember ONCE when you didn't quite "put things together".  Boy! Was the Mayor mad!
KELLO: Citizens committees!  I didn't mean to hit the boy that hard.  Yeah, that's when a feller needed a friend and I won't forget his initials, J.J.
PHIL: (to Hunsecker) She died twenty minutes ago, Mr. Hunsecker.  They're still investigating.
HUNSECKER: (shaking his head with total dismissal) That's show business.  Thanks, Phil. (to Kello) See you.
KELLO: (as he does so) Hasta La Vista, J.J.  Hasta Luego.
SIDNEY: Spahish...that must show he likes "spigs", too.
HUNSECKER: I like Harry, but I can't deny he sweats a little.
HUNSECKER: I love this dirty town.
HUNSECKER: (after a pause) Conjugate me a verb, Sidney.  For instance, TO PROMISE!
HUNSECKER: (continuing) You told me you'd break up that romance - when?
SIDNEY: (hesitantly) You want something done, J.J., but I doubt if you yourself know what's involved.
HUNSECKER: (soft and sardonic) I'm a schoolboy - teach me, teach me.
SIDNEY: (carefully) Why not break it up yourself?  You could do it in two minutes flat.
HUNSECKER: (harshly) At this late date you need explanations...?  Susie's all I got - now that she's growing up, I want my relationship with her to stay at least at par!  I don't intend to antagonize her if I don't have to. (starting to walk again) Now, be warned, son - I'll have to blitz you...
SIDNEY: Frankly, J.J., I don't think you got the cards to blitz me.
HUNSECKER: I don't?
SIDNEY: Correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't think so...
HUNSECKER: (turning to eye him) I'll listen one more minute.
SIDNEY: (very rapidly) About a year ago, you asked me to do a favor.  It was a thing - well, I never did a thing that dirty in all my life.
SIDNEY: Awright, that brings us up to five weeks ago. "Sidney, I got a nasty little problem here." Did I say no? I'm frank to admit - it don't jell as fast as we like... But all of a sudden I CAN'T GET YOU ON THE PHONE NO MORE!  WHY?... And why, as of this date, am I frozen out of the column...
HUNSECKER: (scornfully) Are you finished?
SIDNEY: (quickly) No, lemme finish.  I DON'T LIKE THIS JOB!  That boy is dumb only on matinee days - otherwise he's got a head.  And Susan, like you said, she's growing up.  Two heads. What I mean, we got a slippery, dangerous problem here!
HUNSECKER: (incisively) Not "we", Sidney, you!
SIDNEY: (gamely) Correct me if I'm wrong - WE! Because when I'm out on this very slippery limb for you, you have to know what's involved.
HUNSECKER: (sardonically) Ha!  My right hand hasn't seen my left hand for thirty years!
SIDNEY: I'll do it, J.J. - don't get me wrong - in for a penny, in for a pound.  I'll see it through, but stop beating me around the head. Let me make a living!
HUNSECKER: (his mouth tight and mean) What you promised - do it!  Don't finagle around.  It's later than you think.
SIDNEY: (as Hunsecker passes him) Excuse it, but it's later than you think.  That boy proposed tonight.
HUNSECKER: Susie told you that...?
HUNSECKER: No wonder you've been so 'feisty' tonight.
HUNSECKER: (quietly) Can you deliver?
SIDNEY: Uh huh.
HUNSECKER: When?
SIDNEY: Tonight.  Before you go to bed. The cat is in the bag and the bag is in the river.
HUNSECKER: (quietly) Don't be a two time loser, Sidalee. The sentence could be severe...
CAPTAIN: Hello, Sidney.  Wanna table?
SIDNEY: (shaking his head) Just hopping tonight.  Leo Bartha been in?
CAPTAIN: Yeah, having supper with the Mrs. She's over there.
CAPTAIN: He's somewhere...
SIDNEY: (interrupting) Thanks, I see him...
SIDNEY: Hello, Leo.  How goes that Sunday piece on cigarette girls?
BARTHA: (cautiously) Who told you about it?
SIDNEY: The cigarettes girl...Rita.  And she took out all her hairpins, too.
SIDNEY: I never had the pleasure of meeting your wife.  You know what I wonder, Leo?  Could you use a hot little item for tomorrow's column?
BARTHA: What is this, blackmail?  Beat it!
SIDNEY: Leo, I've never had the pleasure of meeting your wife...
BARTHA: Loretta...Sidney Falco...
WIFE: (chatty) How do you do, Mr. Falco.  If you know anything about horses, sit a minute.  Help yourself to a glass of this N.Y. State champagne - that's what my husband buys me.
SIDNEY: All the imported wines aren't what they're cracked up to be.
WIFE: Whose side are you on, Mr. Falco, his or mine?
SIDNEY: Frankly, Mrs. Bartha, I'm a neutral observer for the United Nations.
WIFE: What's your first name?
SIDNEY: (over scene) Sidney.
WIFE: (searching the column) No horse running tomorrow by that name...
BARTHA: You ought to stop this nonsense, Loretta, these two dollar bets.
WIFE: (cheerfully) It's compensation, Leo, for the marginal life we lead. (to Sidney) Sidney, did you hear the story about the cloak-and-suitor who -- ?
BARTHA: (sharply interrupting) That's right!  Tell him, so I can read it in Hunsecker's column first!
WIFE: (to Sidney, brightly) Oh, are you a spy for the other side?
SIDNEY: No, I actually sat down to give Leo an item.
WIFE: Leo, he wants to give you an item - don't be sullen.
BARTHA: (to his wife) Will you mind your own business!
WIFE: (calmly) Hitler!
SIDNEY: Just in case you'd like to print it, Leo.  It's a blind - no names mentioned.  But for your private information, the guy's name is Dallas.
WIFE: (concentrating on the tabloid) There isn't a single name here that gives off vibrations...
SIDNEY: Anything there with a name like "cigarette girl"?
WIFE: MMmmmm..."cigarette girl"... No, no horse with a name like that...
BARTHA: I don't print blind items.
WIFE: What is this, chess or checkers...?
SIDNEY: (pointedly) Neither does Hunsecker. (fractional pause) He likes to use the real names...
WIFE: Where are we running?  What am I missing here?
BARTHA: Waiter, the check. (to wife) This man is trying to hold a gun to my head!
WIFE: (abruptly) That's the horse!  Shotgun - Shotgun in the fifth!
BARTHA: (sternly) What do you want to tell my wife, Sidney...?
WIFE: (indignantly) He wants to tell me that you poured champagne all over my lap.
BARTHA: Go on, tell her, I'm waiting!
SIDNEY: (flustered) What are you talking about?  Are you nuts or what?
BARTHA: Lorry, I can't let this man blackmail me...
WIFE: Blackmail...?
BARTHA: He wants me to print a dirty smear item for keeping his mouth shut
WIFE: About what?
BARTHA: Foolishly, Lorry, and I hope you'll understand... this cigarette girl...I was kidding around with her...this girl, I mean...I was kidding around and she took it seriously.  It was a case of bad judgment, Lorry, bad taste...and I'm just sorry, Lorry, that's all...
BARTHA: Your friend Hunsecker - you can tell him for me - he's a disgrace to his profession.  Never mind my bilious private life - I print a decent, responsible column - that's the way it stays!  Your man - there's nothing he won't print if it satisfies his vanity or his spite!  He'll use any spice to pepper up his daily garbage!  Tell him I said so and that, like yourself, he's got the morals of a guinea pig and the scruples of a gangster!
SIDNEY: What do I do now?  Whistle "The Stars and Stripes Forever?"
WIFE: (lightly) What you do now, Mr. Falco, is crow like a hen - you have just laid an egg.
WIFE: Leo, this is one of the cleanest things I've seen you do in years...
WAITER: Otis Elwell wants to see you, Sidney.
ELWELL: (pleasantly) I see Bartha gave you cold tongue for supper. (as Sidney starts to leave) Hey, wait a minute!
SIDNEY: (hesitating) I'm late for a date with a dame.
SIDNEY: Otis, if you're trying to blow this brawl into an item for your column - forget it!
ELWELL: (affably) How is dear old J.J. by the way?
SIDNEY: (his anger relapsing) Call him up and ask - he might drop dead with shock.
ELWELL: (lightly) If it were that easy, you wouldn't find an empty phone booth for the next two hours...
ELWELL: (continuing over scene) ...Talk of a wake! - they'd club each other to cater the affair for free!
ELWELL: (happily) By the way, did I hear something about J.J. giving you the flit gun treatment - he shut you out of the column. (amused) Why?
SIDNEY: You don't know that lunatic yet? Whims - egotistic whims!  Like the gag - when you got him for a friend, you don't need an enemy! (a pause, then:) That's what the fight with Bartha was about. "Leo", I says, "Hunsecker froze me out.  So I'm eating humble pie this month - please print me an item."
ELWELL: (pleased) And, instead, he printed his heel in your face?
SIDNEY: (morose) I see you're full of human feelings...
ELWELL: (with a shrug) Like most of the human race, Sidney, I'm bored.  I'd go a mile for a chuckle...
SIDNEY: (noting Elwell's preoccupation) ...and two miles for a pretty girl...?
ELWELL: (lightly) Three...even four...
ELWELL: (continuing, casually) Then you're really washed up with Hunsecker...?
SIDNEY: This is how much I'm washed with
SIDNEY: Look, Otis, I make no brief for my bilious private life, but he's got the morals of a guinea pig and the scruples of a gangster.
ELWELL: (dryly) A fine, fat dirty item. (offering it back to Sidney) Who's it about?
SIDNEY: A kid named Dallas, who runs a dinky jazz quintet. (he leans closer) He keeps company with J.J.'s screwball sister...
SIDNEY: It's a real goody if, like me, you wanna clobber J.J.!
SIDNEY: He's got his TV tomorrow.  He'd read it just before rehearsals.
ELWELL: (cautiously) Mmm.  Trouble is I can't think of any good reason why I should print anything you give me.  I can't even think of a bad reason.
SIDNEY: (gently) Suppose I introduce you to a lovely reason, Otis.  One that's good and bad...and available?
ELWELL: I'm not an unreasonable man...
SIDNEY: Waiter!  The check.
RITA: (coyly) Hi!
SIDNEY: (unembarrassed) Rita, say hello to Otis Elwell.
RITA: (with no welcome whatsoever) Hello.
ELWELL: Friends call me Otis - sometimes Tricky Otis.
SIDNEY: Otis was outraged when I told him Van Cleve was going to fire you. Tell him not to pay any attention to anything you-know-who says about you-know-what. (to Otis) Right, Otis?
ELWELL: Right!
SIDNEY: I thought you two could talk the whole thing over till I got back.
RITA: Back?
SIDNEY: One of those business meetings, honey - always coming up in the middle of the night.
RITA: (sharply) Hold on.  You can drop me off on your way...
ELWELL: (amused by acid) Consternation reigns...
SIDNEY: (quickly) Now, Otis...
ELWELL: I hate J.J. -- but not that much at this moment...
SIDNEY: Give me a chance --
SIDNEY: Don't you know who that man is?
RITA: (bitingly) Yeah.  Otis Elwell.  The columnist.
SIDNEY: (nodding with emphasis) Yeah!
RITA: (aggressively) And he's a perfect stranger to me.
SIDNEY: (explosively) So take five minutes!  Get acquainted!  He's an important man - he's lonely - don't be dumb!
RITA: What do you want all of a sudden - Lady Godiva...?  Where's my other shoe?
SIDNEY: What kind of an act is this?
RITA: Don't you think I have any feelings? What am I?  A bowl of fruit?  A tangerine that peels in a minute?
SIDNEY: (caustic) I beg your pardon!  I turn myself inside out to help you and now I'm a heavy. (stooping swiftly as he discovers her shoe) Here's your shoe, there's your coat, that's the door!
RITA: Sidney...I...I don't do this sort of thing...
SIDNEY: What sort of thing?
RITA: (emphatic) This sort of thing!
SIDNEY: (as emphatic) Listen, you need him for a favor, don't you!  And so do I!  I need his column--tonight. (then) Didn't you ask me to do something about your job?  Don't you have a kid in Military School?
RITA: You're a snake, Falco.  You're a louse, a real louse.
SIDNEY: (persuasively) Honey - he's going to help you! You want to lose your job?
RITA: (remonstrating) A girl needs a little romancing before she -
SIDNEY: (cutting in) Next time I'll call in a guy to paint silver stars on the ceiling!
RITA: (in a small voice) What would you think of me if -
SIDNEY: (cutting in to reassure her) Nothing I didn't think of you before.
RITA: (dryly, with significance) - that's what I mean!
SIDNEY: (as he opens the door) How many snorts does it take to put you in that Tropical Island Mood?
ELWELL: (an inspiration) Havana!  That's where we met!
RITA: (to Otis) Here's mud in your column!
SIDNEY: Blessings on thee, the both...well... Gotta run now.  See you two kids later!
ELWELL: (lightly) Hurry back.
SIDNEY: Don't do anything I wouldn't do. That gives you lots of leeway.
RITA: Palm Springs.  Two years ago.
ELWELL: (delighted) That's right!
RITA: Don't tell Sidney.
HUNSECKER: (to phone) Yes...?  You sound happy, Sidney. Why should you be happy when I'm not? (then) I'll see the papers when I get up. How do you spell Picasso, the French painter? (languidly writes down Picasso on his scratch pad, answering a query, dryly) It's an item - I hear he goes out with three-eyed girls.
SIDNEY: (to phone) It would be nice if you mentioned R-O-B-A-R-D - Robard's jazz joint -- it's his 20th anniversary.  Don't begrudge it to me, J.J. - I owe him lots of favors. (glancing toward the attendant to see that he has not overheard) I think you understand, don't you, that the Dallas skull is badly dented?  Oh, real bad... starting today, you can play marbles with his eyeballs. (even coquetting) Don't hold out on me, J.J., mention Robard.  R.O. - (hangs up and walks to street)
HUNSECKER: We shall see what we shall see... (lazily) And don't ever use this apartment phone again; I have a nervous sister.
NEWS VENDOR: The Globe?
SIDNEY: (shaking his head) Gimme The Record.
MARY: (to phone) I have no power to retract, Mr. Cummings... I'm only Mr. Hunsecker's secretary.  No.  Nor can I agree that can retraction is necessary. Thank you for calling.
LAWYER: (huffily) I fail to see what's amusing about these papers.
MARY: I'll get the boss to sign them.
LAWYER: (giving her the papers) They're important.
MARY: You've said that six times - that's why I'm smiling.
SIDNEY: Hello, Mary, me darlin' and phwat are ye up to today?
MARY: That's a question I usually like to ask YOU.  Your secretary phoned.
SIDNEY: What about?
MARY: (shrugging) Something about a Frank D'Angelo trying to reach you...
MARY: (continuing) Is that the man who manages Susie's boyfriend?
MARY: Have you seen this?  In Otis Elwell's column. (reads) "The dreamy marijuana smoke of a lad who heads a highbrow jazz quintet is giving an inelegant odor to that elegant East Side Club where he works.  That's no way for a card-holding Party Member to act. Moscow won't like, you naughty boy!"
SIDNEY: (into phone) Sally?  I got the message.  If D'Angelo calls again, tell him I'll be at the office around noon.
MARY: Could this be that boy?
SIDNEY: (casually) Dallas?  Could be.  He doesn't look like a reefer smoker...
MARY: (looking at The Record again) If this is true, J.J.'s going to hit the ceiling...
SIDNEY: Can it be news to you that J.J.'s ceiling needs a plaster job every six weeks?
MARY: (quietly) Sidney, you know that J.J. doesn't like people to look at the column proof in advance...
SIDNEY: Mary, I'm not "people" - there's Falco blood, sweat and tears in that column.
SIDNEY: How about dinner tonight?
MARY: Bribing me again?
SIDNEY: (uncomfortable under her scrutiny) And why should I bribe the woman who holds most of my heart?
MARY: You're a real rascal, Sidney.  I'd certainly dislike you if I didn't like you.  You're an amusing boy, but there isn't a drop of respect in you for anything alive - you're too immersed in the theology of making a fast buck.  Not that I don't sometimes feel that you yearn for something better...
SIDNEY: (cynical) Mary, don't try to sell me the Brooklyn Bridge.  I happen to know it belongs to the Dodgers.
MARY: (affably) I don't mind you looking at the proof of the column in advance, as long as J.J. doesn't know.  But don't do it like a boy stealing gum from a slot machine.
SIDNEY: Who put this item in about the comic? (reading) "If there's a more hilarious funny man around than Herbie Temple at the Palace, you'll have to pardon us for not catching the name.  We were too busy screaming." Does this Temple have a press agent?
MARY: No.  It's one of J.J.'s occasional beau gestes.  Evidently the fellow's funny, so he gave him a plug.
SIDNEY: What's your favorite ribbon to go around your favorite chocolates?
MARY: Let's wait till Christmas - it's more legitimate then.
DOORMAN: (calling out) Hey!
SIDNEY: Herbit Temple here yet?
DOORMAN: Yeah, but you can't come in now!
SIDNEY: I'm in, Sonny Boy!
EVANS: I didn't waste words, Herbie, take my word.  I says, "look, Figo, I'm not selling you a dozen eggs, I'm selling you HERBIE TEMPLE", I says, so don't gimme your lip!
SIDNEY: Hiya, Al!
EVANS: Since when did you two get acquainted?
SIDNEY: How do you do, Mr. Temple...
EVANS: (uncertain) Delighted.
SIDNEY: I'm Sidney Falco.
TEMPLE: (still dubious) Yeah, delighted...
EVANS: Watch this guy, Herbie, he's a press agent.
TEMPLE: You watch him, Al, I s...s...stutter!
SIDNEY: (in no way discouraged) Temple, I caught your act the other night and -
TEMPLE: Did you now?  On which bounce?
SIDNEY: - and I just had to drop by and tell you how great I thought you were.
TEMPLE: (dryly) Cheers.  What time is it, Al?
EVANS: You got ten minutes. (to Sidney) Hope you don't mind, Falco: we're busy and if -
SIDNEY: No, I don't mind.  I'm busy too.
TEMPLE: (scowling) Good!  We're all off to Utica, so excuse me, Mr. Frannis-on-the- Portisan.
SIDNEY: But can I ask one impertinent question here?  With no criticism intended, because I know, Al, you earn your ten percent, how come you let a sock act like Herbie Temple tip-toe through town without a publicity build...?
EVANS: We're not buying it, Falco - no fish today.
SIDNEY: I'm not selling.  I'm just curious, that's all.
TEMPLE: Answer the man, Al, if he asks you a question.  Quick, before he thinks up another!
EVANS: Mr. Temple doesn't believe in press agents - does that answer you something?
SIDNEY: Take your hand off, lump! (more politely, to Temple) No one believes in press agents, Temple, when they make claims they can't perform.  I got nothing to sell - I didn't come here to peddle - but if I tell a client that Hunsecker will give him space, it's not just talk!
EVANS: (after hesitation) Listen, you bull artist - !
TEMPLE: Let him go, Al...
SIDNEY: (to phone) Hello?  Mary, let me speak to J.J., please...it's Sidney Falco...
SIDNEY: (to phone) Tell him it's important...
GLORIA: What?  Is this Sidney?...
SIDNEY: (to phone) Sure, I'll wait...
EVANS: (hesitant) Look, nobody hired you!  We didn't talk any deal, and -
SIDNEY: Relax, lump!  I told you I'm not selling fish... (abruptly reverting to the phone) J.J...Sidney!...How are you, sweetheart? (laughing) Yeah... (then seriously) Listen, I know it's late, J.J., but is it too late to add something important to the column? (grinning) No, not a relative, but important...
SIDNEY: Yeah, if you got a pencil there I'll suggest a word or two. Uh...uh...
SIDNEY: (to phone, continuing) If there's a funnier man in the world than Herbie Temple at the Palace...uh...pardon us for not catching the name, we were too busy laughing.  No, make that 'screaming'. (then) It's sweet of you, J.J., thanks. Probably see you at Twenty One tonight.  No, for supper, late. Right. 'Bye...
TEMPLE: Speak to this lad, Al, ... to Mr. Falco.
SIDNEY: See me in my office.
TEMPLE: Wait a minute. (turning back to encourage Evans) Speak to him, Al. (to Sidney, apologetically) Al makes all my deals.
SIDNEY: (coolly, looking toward Evans) I don't like a guy that's quick with the hands. (to Temple) Temple, you've been three passes behind for twenty years.  This could start you off big - T.V. and anywhere.
TEMPLE: And it would cost a pretty penny, huh?
SIDNEY: (to Evans) You tell him, I stutter!
EVANS: (shrewdly) Uh...Why don't we wait till tomorrow?
SIDNEY: (as he goes) Wait as long as you like - you know where my office is.
SIDNEY: (perkily) What is here, a wake?
STEVE: You read as you run, don't you?
SIDNEY: It's a habit with me.  So now I'm briefed.  So what?
STEVE: (glancing at D'Angelo) Frank thinks I shouldn't have come here -
D'ANGELO: (a quick correction) Excuse me, Steve.  I said namely you shouldn't go around wild, blaming people without justification.
STEVE: (watchfully, to Sidney) I thought you might have a faint idea of how this item originated.
SIDNEY: Why me...?
STEVE: Why not you?
SIDNEY: That's your idea of logic?  I tell the Judge I didn't murder the man - the Judge says, "Why not you?"
STEVE: Only two men in this town could be responsible for that smear - you or Hunsecker or both.
SIDNEY: (explosively) Dallas, ask your own manager - he's standing here like a pained wolfhound - Hunsecker and Elwell are enemies to the knife.  So how do you get him doing J.J. a favor?
STEVE: (quickly) It is a favor, isn't it?
SIDNEY: (as quickly) According to you, yeah. (continuing rapidly and with heat) Dallas, your mouth is as big as a basket and twice as empty!  I don't like you, comma, but neither do I go along with this column saying you smoke marijuana and belong with the Reds.  Also, since we're talking repulsive, J.J. won't like this for two cents!  Don't give me that look, Dallas - J.J. believes in fair play.  And secondly, this could splatter his sister with rotten egg by implication - your her boyfriend!
STEVE: You're talking very fast.
SIDNEY: (expostulating) Well, I'll tell you what - excuse me for breathing, will ya? (wheeling to Sally) How do you like it?  He comes to my office and -
D'ANGELO: Boys, this gets nobody nowhere - you're over excited, Steve and -
STEVE: (sharply) Don't apologize for me, Frank!
D'ANGELO: ...excited with good reason, I wanted to say. (to Sidney) Because this endangers the future of the whole quintet...
SIDNEY: (lightly) Should I cry...?
D'ANGELO: (continuing) ...People catch on quick to such an item.  Van Cleve already called me - he's firing the quintet.
SIDNEY: Then what are you doing here?  Go over there and fight!  If Van Cleve fires your boy, it gives a lie the ring of truth!
STEVE: I want to speak to Miss Hunsecker, please.
D'ANGELO: (replying to Sidney's question) We're on our way there now...
SIDNEY: (who has wheeled on Steve) What are you calling her for...?
STEVE: (to Sidney) I'm the boyfriend, remember?  I hope one day she'll be my wife... (into the phone, gently) This is Steve, Susie.  Don't be alarmed, Susie, but I want you to look at Elwell's column in The Record...today...No, about me...
SUSAN: A smear?...What...What kind of smear...?  Where are you?
STEVE: (to the phone) We're on our way to the Elysian Room to dicker with Van Cleve - he's fired us already.  I'll call you later, dear... 'Bye!...
STEVE: Come on, Frank.
SIDNEY: (to D'Angelo) What are you looking at...?
D'ANGELO: (quietly) The ugly world, Sidney... (a pause) If I told Steve what I really think, he'd tear your head off...
SIDNEY: (sneering) Tell him.
D'ANGELO: No.  I'm interested in his future.
SIDNEY: What's the matter?
SALLY: (not looking at him) Nothing...
SIDNEY: You know, Sally, sometimes I get the impression you think you live in Star-Bright Park.  This is life, kid - get used to it!
SIDNEY: (to phone) Nikko, is Mr. Hunsecker there? This is Mr. Falco.  Well, have him call me as soon as he can.  It's important.
SIDNEY: Did you send my folks in Philly the check...?
SALLY: Yes.
SIDNEY: (softly) I put a lotta trust in you, Chickie...
SALLY: (low-voiced) I know you do, Sidney.
SIDNEY: Don't judge a situation where you don't know what's involved...
SALLY: I'm not judging...
SALLY: (pathetically) I swear, Sidney, I can't help it - sometimes I wonder what I see in you...
SIDNEY: (murmuring) That's no way to talk...
SALLY: Or what you see in me, for that matter...
SIDNEY: Stay down town tonight.  Maybe we'll take in a show, etc.
SALLY: If you want me to -
SIDNEY: (exhilarated) You see?  Hunsecker's gotta phone ME!
SIDNEY: (calmly) Hello, J.J....I presume you saw the Elwell smear. (smiling) No, no medals - not yet.  Oh, it's worse than that - Aunty Van Cleve is firing them...from the horse's mouth... They were just here - in a panic...
HUNSECKER: Who was just there? (then) You'll be the death of me.  Sidalee! Why?  Didn't you just tell me that they've already traced this smear to you?  All they have to do now is to put two and two together and I'm a chicken in a pot!
SIDNEY: J.J., peace on earth, good will to men - it's working out just the way I planned.  Yeah, I guarantee this bomb will pop right on schedule, but you have to play your part - you be a Saint and let me be the Devil.  But I wanna talk to you first...
HUNSECKER: Don't come here.  Susie is up and about. (listening) He called her?  You'd better see me at the TV - three o'clock.
SALLY: What are you going to do?
SIDNEY: (the wise one) Chickie, a lotta people think they're smart.  You watch.  They're dumb: they'll do the work for me! Just watch.
HUNSECKER: The table can wait.  No calls.  I have to think about my TV show.
NIKKO: Pleased to do.  I will come back later.
HUNSECKER: (abruptly) Did you put the bread out on the terrace for the birds?
NIKKO: Yes, but they don't come no more this time of year.
HUNSECKER: Susie!  Come in a minute, dear...
HUNSECKER: Susie, you're very much in my thoughts today.
SUSAN: Why?
HUNSECKER: What a question, dear, with that newspaper in your hand...
SUSAN: (pausing) Did Sidney tell you about it?
HUNSECKER: Yes, he phoned.  I don't know this boy too well.  Anything in these charges?
HUNSECKER: Not being partial, are you?
SUSAN: (with quiet certainty) No, I'm not.  I'm not!
HUNSECKER: Susie, take it easy.  I'll trust your judgment - you don't have to protest with me.
HUNSECKER: Why are you trembling, dear...?
SUSAN: History repeats itself.  Everything that happened to Alan Leslie...began with a smear like this...
HUNSECKER: Yes...
SUSAN: (incoherent) It's just as if I've seen a ghost today...
HUNSECKER: (quickly) But that wasn't your fault, dear, what happened to Leslie.  I've told you that a million times...
SUSAN: Then whose fault was it, J.J.?  It was someone's fault, wasn't it?
HUNSECKER: (gravely) I wouldn't have called the boy exactly balanced...
SUSAN: (stronger) Alan was not...unbalanced when I married him.  And he was not...'indifferent to women' no matter what they said!
HUNSECKER: (simply) I'm not fighting with you, puss...
SUSAN: He never would have killed himself if I hadn't gone through with the annulment.  Don't you see that made all the rumors seem true?  I should have stood up for him...not run out.
SIDNEY: J.J., I want you to get them back their job, Steve and the Quintet.
HUNSECKER: ("incredulously") You mean they've been fired already, on the basis of this crude smear?
HUNSECKER: Susie, you're sure there isn't some fire where there's this much smoke?
SIDNEY: (earnestly) I know Steve.  No.
HUNSECKER: Then maybe you can tell me if he's as solid as you say, why does he rap me every chance he gets?
SUSAN: (involuntarily) Sidney is a liar!
HUNSECKER: Who said Sidney?
SUSAN: (defiantly) I said Sidney!...
HUNSECKER: You know, dear, we're drifting apart, you and I, and I don't like that.
SUSAN: I thought we were talking about Sidney?
HUNSECKER: (with rasp) Let me finish, dear.  You had your say, now let me have mine...
SUSAN: (interrupting) I haven't said anything yet, J.J., but if -
HUNSECKER: (gently) I started to say we're drifting apart.  A year ago, in your wildest dreams, would you have walked by that door without taking up this situation with me?  Today I had to call you in!
SUSAN: I'm taking up the situation with you now...
HUNSECKER: (interrupting) Susie, I want to help you--, there's nothing I won't do for you. You're all I've got in the whole, wide world.
HUNSECKER: (continuing) Well, what have I got?  Alimony to a pair of tramps?  They're of no concern to me.  It's you who count, but don't get me wrong - I don't intend to let you break your neck again!
SIDNEY: J.J., you said you want to help me - prove it!
HUNSECKER: (quietly) How?
SIDNEY: Get Steve back his job...please...
HUNSECKER: (pausing) He means that much to you...?
SIDNEY: (simply) Yes. (then) With your "prestige" it only takes a minute - ten cents worth of American Tel and Tel.
HUNSECKER: You're picking up my lingo, hon.
SIDNEY: (levelly) I read your column every day...
HUNSECKER: Susie, I like this new attitude of yours.  You're growing up and I like it!  I don't like it when you're limp and dependent, when you're odd and wayward.  This gives you a chance for real survival in a very lousy world.  Because, don't forget, dear, you won't always have me with you, will you...?
SIDNEY: No, I won't...
HUNSECKER: This Dallas boy must be good for you.  Why not bring him around today, before the show?  This time I'll clean my glasses for a better look.
SIDNEY: I'm not sure I can reach him in time.
HUNSECKER: (easily) Sure you can if you want to, and I know you'll want to... (then) By the way, what's your beef against little Sidney?
SUSAN: (steadily) When I'm certain, I'll let you know...
HUNSECKER: A man couldn't ask for a squarer shake. (into phone) Let me have Billy Van Cleve... (then) Don't ever tell anyone, Susie, how I'm tied to your apron strings... (to phone) Billy!  J.J.!  What's this about that boy?  What boy?  Where are we, lug, in a drawing room comedy? You're brain is warming up, sweetheart - yeah, Dallas!... (then) No, don't explain your point of view, but...
HUNSECKER: "I was reminded of it this morning, when I noticed that the birds had gone South.  We want the same kind of freedom for ourselves - that's what the man said! (he clicks the watch, pauses to underline the phrase, continues:) A man has the right to face his accusers!  That's the American Way! Who said?  The man said!  From..."
HUNSECKER: Burton, don't stand around.  If I go over I'll cut some items off the tail...
HUNSECKER: "From Washington through to Jefferson, from Lincoln and F.D.R. right up to today - the Democratic Way of Life!  That's what the man said!  Nowadays it doesn't export to well... (then, concluding) But you know...and I know...that our best secret weapon is D-E-M-O-
C-R-A-C-Y.: (dropping to a modest tone) Let's never forget it, ladies and gentlemen."
MILDRED TAM: That's grand, just grand, J.J.! (then, anxiously) Is my makeup all right?  You know, despite the scads of movies I've made, I've never appeared on TV yet...
HUNSECKER: (cutting her short) Of course, Mildred.  Of course. You look fine. (swiftly summoning Mary) Mary, help Miss Tam - anything she wants; she's our star today.
HUNSECKER: I got that boy coming over here. (a glance at Sidney) What's so funny?
SIDNEY: (who is smiling faintly) With a pocket fulla firecrackers - good.
HUNSECKER: (narrowly) I think you loused this up but good. If I can trust my eyes, and I think I can, Susie knows all about your dirty work.
SIDNEY: (shrugging) Can't hurt...
HUNSECKER: (incredulously) Can't hurt?  I had to get him back his job.
SIDNEY: (smugly) I like that, too. (closer, faster) Look, J.J., we can wrap this up in one neat bundle, addressed to the dumps - to oblivion.  We're going great, but please play it my way. I cased this kid. Know his ins and outs...He's fulla juice and vinegar, just begging for some big shot like you to give him a squeeze.  Do little Sidney a favor: squeeze! - You know, J.J. - the porcupine bit - needles.
HUNSECKER: But it's too late.  I got him back the job...
SIDNEY: (impatiently) No, that's the point - he won't accept your favor!  The manager yes, but not the boy.
HUNSECKER: Well he's got her in a tizzy, I'll tell you that!
SIDNEY: Sure, he steams her up - wants her to stand on her own two feet and all that jazz!
HUNSECKER: And who's feet is she on now?
SIDNEY: Presumably yours... (a hasty addition) That's according to St. Dallas.
HUNSECKER: What's this boy got that Susie likes?
SIDNEY: Integrity - acute, like indigestion.
HUNSECKER: What does that mean - integrity?
SIDNEY: (repeating as before) A pocket fulla firecrackers - looking for a match! (grinning) It's a new wrinkle to tell the truth... I never thought I'd make a killing on some guy's "integrity".
HUNSECKER: Full of beans, ain't you?  But you know that you'll stand or fall by what you're doing now...
SIDNEY: (grins; confidently) Calculated risk.  Only we happen to know, J.J., that you like me.  I'm your star pupil -- I reflect back to you your own talent.
HUNSECKER: I wouldn't like to take a bite of you; you're a cookie full of arsenic.
STEVE: (depressed) I still think he's responsible for the smear.
D'ANGELO: Not that I'm convinced, but you'll never prove it in a million years. (gently) Steve, you'll do what you want, but it can't hurt; he offers you an olive branch - so today like olives!
STEVE: I guess you're right, but -
D'ANGELO: Steve, sometimes it's better not to look at your own honesty; but to look the other man in the face. Not because you're my meal ticket - which you are - but because I like you and the boys, please take my advice: we -
SUSAN: (in an undertone) Steve, before we go in - I'd like to...
SIDNEY: Hey, Susie - This is a real surprise -- not one but three. J.J.'s just finishing up his rehearsal.
HUNSECKER: Looks like a wedding.
SUSAN: Steve, you remember my brother...
STEVE & HUNSECKER: (together) Of course.
HUNSECKER: Well, son, looks like you went out and bought yourself a packet of trouble...
STEVE: You've been very kind about it, Mr. Hunsecker.
HUNSECKER: Give Susie credit for that.  I took her word that there was nothing to the smear.  Matter of fact, I'll have my say about smears on the show today.  That's why I'd like YOUR personal assurance, too.
STEVE: (quietly) Mr. Hunsecker, there's nothing to that smear.  You have my sincere word...
HUNSECKER: (nodding judicially) I'll by that, son.  Now, you owe ME a favor. (pausing; to Susan) Be good to my kid sister...
SIDNEY: (solemnly) Yeah, she's had a peck of trouble for a kid...
HUNSECKER: Susie likes to keep her girlish secrets.  But in her heart of hearts I imagine, Dallas, that she fancies you in an uncommon way. Now, what about YOU, son?  Not just tom-catting around...I hope?
SUSAN: (quickly) J.J., Steve isn't...
HUNSECKER: Take it easy, Susie.  He wouldn't be much of a man if he didn't understand my concern.  Would you, son?
STEVE: (pausing, quietly) No, I wouldn't...
HUNSECKER: (nodding) Serious as a deacon...I like it.  I like your style, son!  In a world of old rags and bones, I like it! For instance, take Sidney.
HUNSECKER (CONT'D): If Sidney got anywhere near Susie I'd break a bat over Sidney's head! (smiling faintly) Sidney lives so much in a moral twilight that, when I said you were coming here, he predicted disaster. You wouldn't take my favor -- you'd chew up the job, he said, and spit it right back in my face! (sniffing) Any truth in that...?
D'ANGELO: No, Mr. Hunsecker, and if I can amplify --
HUNSECKER: (motionless) Don't amplify.
D'ANGELO: Steve wantsa thank you for this favor.  He --
SIDNEY: (provocatively) Frank, you don't listen!  J.J. just told you to shut your mouth!
STEVE: (hotly) Don't you think it's about time you shut yours?  Who are you to tell a man like Frank D'Angelo to shut up?!
D'ANGELO: (warningly) Steve, that isn't important --
STEVE: Does he have to be here in our hair?
HUNSECKER: Why, has he bothered you before?
STEVE: Is it news to you?
HUNSECKER: Son, lots of people tell me I'm a gifted man, but I still can't see around corners.
HUNSECKER: (tolerantly) Just exactly what are you so hot about? (waiting) I mean, I know it's a difficult thing to be an artist in this crudest of possible worlds, but --
STEVE: (impatiently) Nuts!  I'm not here as an artist! I'm here as an average Joe, who happens to love your sister Susie!
HUNSECKER: (with ironic smirk) Well, just be careful you don't knock her down, huh?
HUNSECKER: (affably) Frankly, son, you lost me on that last hill.  Just give us the punch line...
STEVE: (agreeably) No punch line.  Maybe I was just admiring your know-how---yours and Falco's.
HUNSECKER: Why do you keep coupling me with Falco?
STEVE: (innocently) He's here, isn't he?  Do you think, sir, when he dies he'll go to the dog and cat heaven?
SIDNEY: Let's forget cats and dogs and other pseudo-literary remarks--- I'll just lay it on the line!  What about that big rumpus in my office today?  You were there, Frank! Where, according to St. Dallas, J.J. was responsible for the Elwell smear!
HUNSECKER: Don't go wild, Sidney.
SIDNEY: Wild?  Take a look at them and see who's wild...
HUNSECKER: What about that...?
D'ANGELO: (uneasily) Steve was excited...he didn't mean it exactly the way it's stated here...
HUNSECKER: (to Steve) How did you mean it...?
HUNSECKER: Both of you keep quiet! (to Sidney) You've made more damage here in one minute than a plague of locusts! If you're tired, Susie, sit down--- this needs investigation! (to Steve, quieter) How did you mean it...? (waiting) Come on, let's go!  Let's go!...
STEVE: I don't take kindly to you and Falco selling me ethics.  Who's the injured party here, you?
HUNSECKER: (with contempt) Right now you're in no position to ask questions!  And your snide remarks---
STEVE: (stronger) Wait a minute, I haven't handed over punishing privileges to you YET!  Put the whip down and I might respect what you're saying...
HUNSECKER: Susie, did you know about this accusation...?
SUSAN: (mutely) No...
HUNSECKER: (abruptly) Before you leave, son, I'll answer your question---Susan Hunsecker is the injured party here! (balefully) Or will I be hearing next that I don't even have my sister's welfare at heart...
STEVE: Mr. Hunsecker, you've got more twists than a barrel of pretzels.
HUNSECKER: (unturning) You hear that, Susie... (to Steve) Continue please...
STEVE: (shaking his head) I'm afraid I can't cope with them.
STEVE (CONT'D): (simply) You're too shrewd for me so I'll just be honest.  Susie and I love each other, if I'm not mistaken, and we want to get married.
SIDNEY: Give him credit---the boy's gall is gorgeous!
STEVE: Why don't we hear what Susie has to say?
HUNSECKER: (sardonically) That's stout of you, Dallas, but Susie may not care to air her dismal views in public...
STEVE: Susie...?
HUNSECKER: Susie, as always, is free to say anything she thinks.  Go on, dear, say exactly what's on your mind, dear.
STEVE: Those "dears" sound like daggers. May I suggest that you stop DARING her to speak?
HUNSECKER: May I lift my eyebrows?  What is this?  What are you trying to do?
STEVE: (strongly) I'm trying to get Susie to stand up to you.  But your manner is so threatening that she's afraid to speak!
HUNSECKER: Son, you raise your voice again and you'll be outa here on your golden pratt!
SUSAN: Steve, if only for my sake, I want this stopped!  And the same goes for you, too, J.J.!
HUNSECKER: (contritely) Susie, I'm sorry if---
SUSAN: (bitterly) Sometimes I think ALL men are fools!...
HUNSECKER: You see, Dallas, a plague on both our houses... (then) We may have to call this game on account of darkness...
HUNSECKER: If looks could kill, I'm dead...
STEVE: (slowly) No, I don't care about you -- you're fantastic.  My whole interest, if it's not too late, is in Susie...and how to undo what you've done to her...
HUNSECKER: (smiling) And what have I done to her, besides not buy her a new fur coat lately?  Sidney, you were right -- the boy's a dilly.
STEVE: (stung) Why?  Because I don't like the way you toy with human lives? - Your contempt and malice?  Because I won't be the accomplice of your sick ego - and the way it's crippled Susie...?  You think of yourself - you and your column - you see yourself as a national glory...but to me, and thousands of others like me, you and your slimy scandal, your phony patriotics - to me, Mr. Hunsecker, you are a national disgrace!
HUNSECKER: (blandly) Son, I don't fancy shooting mosquitoes with elephant guns.  So suppose you just shuffle along and call it a day...
STEVE: But my day with Susie isn't over yet and--
HUNSECKER: (cold) Ten'll get you fifty you're playing hookey from a padded cell!
SIDNEY: (softly) You did it, J.J., you did it good...
HUNSECKER: (softly) You in a mood, Susie, to run over to Milgrim's later and buy a few new frocks?
SUSAN: (a small voice) No.  I'm going home.
HUNSECKER: Want Sidney to drive you over?
HUNSECKER: Drive Susie home.
HUNSECKER: Susie...I...I'd have to take it very much amiss if you ever saw that boy again.
SUSAN: (levelly) I'll never see him again.
HUNSECKER: Call Van Cleve.  Tell him he was right.  Tell him I said the Dallas boys are not worthy of his club.
HUNSECKER: (without looking up) Mary...for Susie's own good...don't give her misplaced sympathy...
SIDNEY: I'll get you a cab...
SUSAN: (coldly) Get away from me.
SIDNEY: J.J. asked me to drive you over and -
SUSAN: I told you to leave!  I don't know if Steve'll ever talk to me again and I'm ready to blame it all on you!
SIDNEY: Susie...!
HUNSECKER: So that's what "integrity" looks like.  Well, I'm always willing to learn... (later) How is that slob, D'Angelo, your uncle?
SIDNEY: My mother's side--her brother. That reminds me, J.J., Susie looks run down.  She can stand a vacation and so can you.  People say, "Oh, the great J.J., he's made of iron!", but you can use a rest, guy.
HUNSECKER: What are you so chipper about?  If I put a cross on every one of your mistakes, you'd look like a graveyard!
SIDNEY: (smiling) But not for anything I did today...
HUNSECKER: Sidney, I know human nature.  Susie lied to me - she'll see that boy again.
SIDNEY: You're right, J.J. - she won't give him up, but it doesn't matter. Because the real "money ball" is the boy, not Susan.  And if --
MATRE D': Mr. Hunsecker this was to be delivered to you personally -
HUNSECKER: These drinks are warm.
WAITER: You said you like to have them on your table.
HUNSECKER: What are you a critic?
WAITER: I'll change --
HUNSECKER: Forget it. (to Sidney) The real money ball is the boy...
SIDNEY: Yeah, the boy...we're on the verge of a farce, a real farce.  As I see it, if Susie had stood behind him today he might have proved a threat. But since primarily he's wedded to his work, he's not going to be able to take it.
HUNSECKER: (to waiter) Stop tinkering, pal - that horse radish won't jump a fence!
SIDNEY: In brief, J.J., it's all over because any hour now the boy will give her up.  Is it a farce or not?
HUNSECKER: This syrup you're giving out, Sidney, you pour over waffles, not J.J. Hunsecker!  What do you mean that lousy kid will give up my sister?
HUNSECKER: Are you listening?
SIDNEY: (warily) How does it matter who's sister? The main thing, they're through and -
HUNSECKER: Am I supposed to forget how that boy talked to me today?
SIDNEY: J.J., is he worthy of a second glance from a man like you?  Is he, I mean?...
HUNSECKER: Brief epitaph: "The boy was talking when he should have been listening." (then) Bite on this.
SIDNEY: Steamship tickets?
HUNSECKER: (as he eats) For the next sailing of the Mary. Susan's run down - she's never been abroad and as you so cogently put it, I'm not made of iron.
SIDNEY: That's good.  Now that louse is outa Susie's hair for good.
HUNSECKER: I want that boy taken apart.
SIDNEY: (seriously) Why do something that would drive them right back into each other's arms?  Not to mention that this time Susie would know who shot the arrow...
HUNSECKER: (interjecting quietly) She knows now.
SIDNEY: (quickly) Why give her real proof?  You nearly ruined her with her first husband - and you were right, J.J., - but she almost followed him out the window.  What do you want - a chronic invalid?
HUNSECKER: I know how to handle Susie.  You just handle the boy, Sidney... (scribbles on scratch pad) ...preferably tonight. (pushes pad across to Sidney)
SIDNEY: Why, what's tomorrow - a holiday?
SIDNEY: I think I'll go home - maybe I left my sense of humor in another suit.
HUNSECKER: You've got that God-given brain - learn to use it!  Do you think it's a personal matter with me, this boy? Are you telling me I see things in terms of personal pique?  Don't you see that today that boy wiped his feet on the choice, on the predilections of sixty million men and women of the greatest country in the world!  If you had any morals yourself, you would understand the immorality of that boy's stand today!  It was not me he criticized - it was my readers!...
SIDNEY: I'm leaving, J.J....
HUNSECKER: (a quiet warning) Don't remove the gangplank, Sidney; you may wanna get back on board.
HUNSECKER: This crab gumbo - terrific!
SIDNEY: J.J., it's one thing to wear your dog collar...but when it gets to be a noose...I'd rather have my freedom.
HUNSECKER: The man in jail is always for freedom.
SIDNEY: (as he rises) Except, if you'll excuse me, I'm not in jail.
HUNSECKER: (easily) Sure you're in jail, Sidney. You're a prisoner of your own fears, of your own greed and ambition; you're in jail.
SIDNEY: J.J.  If you're trying to -
HUNSECKER: (interrupting) You, little boy, don't know who you are!  Talking around corners with the big shots, ten dollar dinners - fourteen suits and cashmere coats - you tell yourself THAT'S who you are!  Later you won't know who you are without a penthouse on upper Park!  But underneath it all, ratting around from day to day, you DO know who you are!  You're a fearful, ignorant nobody - a poor wop kid from the slums of Philly - hoping nobody else finds it out!
SIDNEY: A little hunch occurs to me - you have just painted a self-portrait. You know who YOU are because you scare people - that's what you've got against this boy.  He -
HUNSECKER: (cutting in) I told you what I want you to do tonight!
SIDNEY: You're blind, Mr. Magoo.  This is a crossroads for me.  I won't get Kello.  Not for a life-time pass to the Polo Grounds.  Not if you serve me Ingrid Bergman on a plate.
HUNSECKER: (over patient) Sidney, I told you -
SIDNEY: (continuing) J.J., I swear to you on my mother's life, I won't do it. (he leans even closer) If you gave me your COLUMN I wouldn't do a thing like that...
HUNSECKER: (delicately touching the envelope) And who do you think writes the column while Susie and I are away for three months?...
HUNSECKER (V.O.): (continuing) ...The man in the moon?
HUNSECKER: (softly) Thank you, Sidney.
HUNSECKER: And, Sidney, I'll have that piece of paper back...
STEVE: She'll be down in a minute.
D'ANGELO: What does she wanna see you about?
STEVE: She didn't say.
D'ANGELO: I could think of better places to meet her, instead of here.  He lives on the whole top floor.
STEVE: (carelessly) I doubt that it matters any more.
D'ANGELO: Steve.  You made a very dangerous enemy of him today.  Matter of fact, I'm very glad we got the tour ahead.  If I'm any judge, you hurt him today where he lives... He won't forget it and he won't forgive...
SUSAN: (as she comes forward to join them) Good evening, Mr. D'Angelo.
SUSAN: Hello, Steve.  I'm glad you could come.
STEVE: Why did you call me?
SUSAN: Would you buy me a cup of coffee? In there...
STEVE: Sure.
STEVE: We're on our way to Robard's for a benefit.  I've only got five minutes...
COUNTERMAN: Too late for service.
STEVE: Just two cups of java.
COUNTERMAN: (with a twinkle) We serve here only moka coffee.
STEVE: (smiling faintly) Make it moke.
SUSAN: Steve...what you tried to do today...you tried to take me up on a high mountain...I couldn't go all the way...I failed you... (a pause) Will you forgive me? (then) Have I lost you, Steve?  Have I...?
STEVE: Well, maybe I was wrong, too... But there's no doubt, Susie, that we have to face some serious things...
SUSAN: No one's ever stood up to my brother the way you did.
STEVE: (quietly, to the point) But you didn't do much about it, Susie.  You walked out, and there I was...solo...and not too good at that.
SUSAN: I just didn't think that I could antagonize him, Steve -- for OUR sake, I mean.
STEVE: Susie, I was there for OUR sake, too.  But what a world it would be if we were all afraid to learn to walk and talk because it might offend poppa!  By the way, I think your brother was completely responsible for the smears...
SUSAN: Steve, I...
STEVE: (overriding her) But I don't care about that now. He knew what he was doing today. He was laying down the conditions under which he MIGHT consent to our marriage - if I would bend to every whim of his, like Sidney!  I couldn't do that, Susie...
SUSAN: You're saying goodbye, aren't you?
STEVE: No!  I'm saying that for your sake you have to make a clean break with your brother!
SUSAN: (wrenched) But, please, Steve, please - one step at a time!  I was born only yesterday!...
STEVE: (pausing, softer) I told your brother I couldn't be his accomplice.  I can't be yours either, Susie, and encourage him to go on pulverizing you.  I know what type - he's my old man all over again!
STEVE: This beautiful coat is more than just a coat... I hate it!  It's a mink straight-jacket!
SUSAN: (drooping) Steve, I feel exhausted...what do you want me to do?
STEVE: (not sure of himself) Not what you're doing now.  At least don't ask me - don't ask him. You're fighting for your life! What do YOU want to do?
SUSAN: (pausing, woodenly) You are saying goodbye, aren't you...?
STEVE: (impatiently) That's fish four days old...!  I can't buy it, Susie!  Right out of that mouth I love, like you're a ventriloquist's dummy, your BROTHER is saying goodbye!  Gee!...you want me to be honest, don't you?!
SUSAN: No, Steve, I don't.  I don't.  Not if it KILLS me I don't!...
SUSAN: (without luster) Let's not talk any more...you have to go...
SUSAN: Goodbye, Mr. D'Angelo.  Take care of Steve.
D'ANGELO: (softly) I will, Miss Hunsecker.
SUSAN: Say something funny...Mr. Hasenfeffer.
STEVE: (after a moment) Look back, Frank, see if she's still standing there...
D'ANGELO: Still there...
D'ANGELO: (with sympathy) Not that I don't like her - she's a very lovely person, but who can tell?  A year from now you might thank your stars that it turned out this way. (changing the subject) By the way, Robard said that...
STEVE: Frank, I don't want to make the benefit.  They'll be jammin' all night, and the way I feel -- I'd like to be alone -- I'd like just to walk and walk and never come back.
D'ANGELO: No.  I don't leave you alone on a night like this.  And, anyway, you promised...
D'ANGELO: Lew, Steve don't feel too good...
ROBARD: (interjecting) I'm sorry to hear it.
D'ANGELO: (continuing) ...So, if you don't mind, he'll leave after this set.
ROBARD: I like that boy, Frank.  Anything he does is okay with me...
D'ANGELO (O.S.): Hey!..........
D'ANGELO: (continuing) Mr. Falco...I hate to give you this satisfaction - they broke it off tonight for good.
D'ANGELO: (continuing) Tell that to Hunsecker - tell him we agree - he's a big man - he wins all the marbles!
KELLO: What's all the rush?  You said three o'clock.
SIDNEY: (glancing back towards club) He's leaving early.  After this "set".  He'll be out in a couple of minutes...
1ST POLICEMAN: What's this deal tonight?
MURPH: (the 2nd policeman) One of the lieutenant's "surprise parties", I think.
1ST POLICEMAN: One of these days I'd like to turn in my badge and tangle with "POPSIE" myself - he's no good.
SIDNEY: Can't you wait up the block?  It's not going to look so good, right in front of the club...
KELLO: (heavily humorous) It's nice, Sidney, that you give me this tip...
SIDNEY: (interjecting) - He's got them on him.
KELLO: (solemnly nodding his approval) ...And he's got them on him.  I appreciate a thing like that - I appreciate where you are looking out for the virtue of the city.
KELLO: What's your hurry, Snooks?
SIDNEY: (revolted) Take your hands off, Kello...
KELLO: Murph, how do you like this face? Why, I'll be darned -- it's melting! Something got you scared, Sidney...? Listen, rectify me a certain thing. Wasn't you kidding, Snooks, when you told J.J. I was fat...?
SIDNEY: Sleep in peace, Kello -- you're skinny -- but J.J. says you sweat!
KELLO: Is that a fact?  He's a dilly, ain't he?  By the by, what did he have against this boy?
SIDNEY: He goes out with girls.
KELLO: Well, I'll be darned.  And what does J.J. think he SHOULD do?
SIDNEY: (impudently) Go out with DIFFERENT girls!
KELLO: (softly now) I get the peculiar impression, Snooks, that you don't like me. Could I be wrong?
SIDNEY: (as he goes) You could be right, you fat slob?
KELLO: (with a guffaw) Come back here, Sidney...I wanna chastise you!...
D'ANGELO (O.S.): (urgently) Steve!
D'ANGELO: (fondly) Press this in your friendship book...Love is a crooked thing, friendship not... (then, sheepishly) You see, it comes out in the wash of a few drinks -- I'm a very sentimental guy.
STEVE: I like it that way, Frank...don't change.
KELLO: Hey, fella...!
SIDNEY: A bunch of nickels, mister!
SIDNEY: A double Johnny Walker Black.  Or whatever you got.  Scotch.
BOUNCER: Hey, Robard, somebody just picked up one of your boys.
ROBARD: What sa -- Wha --
D'ANGELO: (dazed) Whatsa matter, Lou?
ROBARD: (turning to D'Angelo) I'm trying to find out myself. They just picked up Steve.
LOITERER: (blankly) Some fat guy...
2ND LOITERER: A cop, a couple of cops.
LOITERER: They smeared him all over the lot.
D'ANGELO: I'm looking for your brother.  Is he home?
SUSAN: No. (sensing the seriousness of his manner) Mr. D'Angelo - is something wrong?
D'ANGELO: When does he usually gets in, your night-owl brother?
SUSAN: Seldom before five. (again) What's the matter?  Would you care to come in a minute?
D'ANGELO: No...no.  Thanks.
SUSAN: (taut) Something's happened.  To Steve.
D'ANGELO: (in a broken voice) He's in the hospital...He's under arrest, too... They planted reefer cigarettes on him...in his overcoat pocket.
SUSAN: (wildly) Where is he...I want to go to him...
D'ANGELO: Miss Hunsecker, if you see him again they might...might kill him.
SUSAN: (slowly) Who is "they"?
D'ANGELO: Don't ask foolish questions. (then) Tell your brother I'm a sensible man.  He understands only two things - power-politics and homage - tell him I came tonight to pay homage!
SIDNEY: Susan?
SIDNEY: Where's J.J.?
SUSAN: He isn't here...
SIDNEY: But he called and said...
SUSAN: No, I called...
SUSAN: Mr. D'Angelo phoned about Steve...I went down to the hospital, but they wouldn't let me in.  He promised to keep in touch with me - Mr. D'Angelo, I mean...
SIDNEY: (carefully) It's all over town about Dallas... (moving towards her) How is he?
SUSAN: He's...unconscious...
SUSAN: I...I gave Steve up... (then) Why did you and J.J. do it?
SIDNEY: Susie, if I get your meaning, you're pitching very wild balls. What -
SUSAN: Don't bother to lie, Sidney. (moving away) I don't care anymore.
SIDNEY: Listen, get a good night's sleep - tomorrow's another day.  Feeling sorry for yourself won't help.
SUSAN: (shaking her head) I'm sorry about Steve, not myself. I'm even sorry for my brother.  To be so lonely, without one real friend in the world - to have to hang on to a worthless rag of a girl like me because she's his only real family -
SIDNEY: (moving towards her again) Come on now, chickie, why don't you go to bed...?
SUSAN: And I'm sorry for you, too, Sidney. You're going down with the ship.
SIDNEY: What ship?
SUSAN: THIS ship.
SUSAN: Don't you know how my brother will see you after tonight?  You'll be the man who drove his little stainless sister to suicide...
SIDNEY: Honey, I'll just have to smile at that.
SIDNEY: (as he goes) It's late and I'm going home...
SIDNEY: Susie, whatever problems you have with J.J. - I didn't invent them! What're you blaming me for?  If you learned to let out your hatred you would be better off!
SUSAN: Like you?
SIDNEY: Yeah!  Like me!  I don't choke on my own gall - I fight back!  Let THEM choke, not me!
SUSAN: I'm not a man, Sidney, I'm -
SIDNEY: I know that bit - you're a girl; you need a man to give you strength! So what do you pick such weak sisters for?  Don't you know yet that you fight fire with fire, not with tear drops?
SUSAN: I could almost forgive you if what you did to Steve came from jealousy and love...
SIDNEY: (quickly) I didn't do anything!
SUSAN: ...but you did it for greed, Sidney - and that's pathetic.
SIDNEY: Don't run away - I was always the man for you!  I'm talking to you out of two years of silence - listen to what I say!  Inside of six months -
SUSAN: (helplessly) Please, Sidney, I can't stand this -
SIDNEY: (over scene) Listen to me, lunatic!  All your life you've been doing penance for crimes you never committed!  I could change that, I'd teach you, I'd show you - !
HUNSECKER: Go to bed, Susie.  It's late...
HUNSECKER: (to Susan) What is he doing here?
SUSAN: I called him.
SIDNEY: (carefully) She was depressed - she heard about Dallas.
HUNSECKER: ("controlling" his feelings) That subject it might be better not to start me on. (angry) He's made all the papers tonight.
HUNSECKER: ("mildly") Is there something you wanted to say...? (as she does not answer, continuing with growing viciousness) I've put up with a lot of your guff, Susie, because you were a child.  But you're a woman now and I suspect, despite my best intentions, more than a bit of a slut...
SIDNEY: (quickly) J.J., if you think -
SUSAN: (cutting in) Don't explain, Sidney... It doesn't matter now...
HUNSECKER: (continuing) Whose arms will I have to pry you out of next?  Not that I don't think you didn't invite it!  I know that look of yours, that pose of being wronged - and how it arouses the crusading instinct in even a Sidney Falco -
SIDNEY: I was trying to build her up, not tear her down -
HUNSECKER: (viciously) Is that why you were romancing her, you mutt! (turning back to Susan) Let's call it quits, my dear.  I'd like it fine if you found another home.  That means the front door is open!  Pack your things, rent a moving van and GIT! (pacing the room) And as for marriage, let me hit you with a few choice facts: you aren't ready for marriage!  You're incompetent - a capricious and shaky frail with a sick fatality for frail and useless men!
HUNSECKER: (to himself) Another crisis past. (walking away) She'll be fast asleep in five minutes, loaded with those headache pills...
HUNSECKER: Now we'll get to you, Sidney. (turning to Sidney) As far as the column is concerned - tonight you have forfeited every ethical consideration I ever felt for you...
SIDNEY: (cutting in) Look, J.J., I'll grant you anything you want. (as Hunsecker is about to interrupt) Susie's off her rocker tonight!  Go in and see what she's doing!  Go in and talk to her quietly - unless you want a corpse!
HUNSECKER: (acid) Let me finish what I started to say -
HUNSECKER: (coming forward) What a cornball you are, Sidney...
SIDNEY: (anxiously) Susie! (in growing fear)
HUNSECKER: (with authority) Susie, this is J.J.!  Open up!
SUSAN: (wildly) No!  NO!  Don't touch me!
HUNSECKER: (sharply) Susan!...
SUSAN: (her body shaking) Go away!...Go away!...
SUSAN: (sobbing bitterly)
HUNSECKER: (in a choked voice) Talk to her, Sidney...
SIDNEY: (hushed) Talk to her yourself...
HUNSECKER: Yuh...Yuh... (he listens) Just a minute... (turning back to Susan) Susie, it's Mr. D'Angelo - from the hospital...
SUSAN: Yes...yes...yes...
SUSAN: (speaking with difficulty) Steve...is out of danger...
HUNSECKER: (soberly) That means a lot to you?
SUSAN: Yes.
HUNSECKER: But I have to warn you, Susie - for your own sake - he'll still do time...
HUNSECKER: (continuing, warming to his theme) He's a hop-head - that's a felony in New York.  I can try, of course, to...
SIDNEY: You're unholy, J.J.!  You'd rather kill this girl than let her go!
HUNSECKER: (in blind rage)
SIDNEY: (impulsively) Susie, YOU get out of this house! - Get out before it's too late!
SIDNEY: (with sincerity) Listen with care - this will cost me everything, so you know I'm telling you the truth!
HUNSECKER: (trying to stop him) You're incapable of the truth...
SIDNEY: (who will not by stopped) Susie, there's nothing wrong with Dallas! (turning toward Hunsecker) Your brother and I arranged it all. And if the Leslie boy is still a squooshy item in your life, forget it! - your brother arranged that one, too!  I don't usually give away presents; but this is my gift to you: Get out of here!  Leave this man!
HUNSECKER: Like most Italians, Sidney's got a big gift for dramatics.  I, however, prefer the cool and stubborn facts. Sidney has not appeared in my column in weeks - check that fact with Mary.  That leads right to another fact: Sidney had nothing to lose tonight!  To the contrary, dear - ONLY HIS OBVIOUS GREED TO
BEAT HIS WAY BACK INTO THE COLUMN: In brief, BLACKMAIL!
HUNSECKER: (continuing) Mind you, not that one true fact didn't come out of Sidney's mouth tonight: self-admittedly, he committed a vicious crime of jealousy against Steve Dallas! (pausing) Now we have to clear Dallas, don't we?...But I'll have to sacrifice him... (he indicates Sidney) ...to do it. (turning to Susan) Am I doing right?
HUNSECKER (O.S.): (over scene) Yes or no, Susie...?
SUSAN: (very quietly) He's sick.
SIDNEY: (quietly) Yes, he's sick and you're the only idiot alive who didn't know it.
SIDNEY: But what are you going to do?
SIDNEY: (with emphasis) You don't owe your brother a cup of water!
SIDNEY: What are you going to do?
SUSAN: Go to Steve.
SIDNEY: (sharply) For Pete's sake, straighten out the seams of your stockings - comb your hair - don't be so helpless all the time!
HUNSECKER: (to phone) No, he's admitted that, Harry.  My kid sister's a witness.
HUNSECKER (O.S.): (over scene) No, he admits he planted the stuff on the Dallas boy...
HUNSECKER: Yeah...jealousy.
HUNSECKER: (continuing) ...He's been trying to make my sister behind my back.
KELLO: (to phone) Oh, that's serious, J.J.  Real reprehensible...
KELLO: (to phone) Don't worry, I'll get there.  I'm on Broadway now.
HUNSECKER: (over scene) That's a pretty coat.
HUNSECKER: (continuing) - but it's about time you had a new one.
SUSAN: (soberly) I'm leaving, J.J.
HUNSECKER: (with a faint scoff) Don't kid a kidder.  I'll see you for breakfast around eleven.
SIDNEY: Hello, Harry...
KELLO: Hi! (coming to join Sidney) I just been on the phone to J.J.
KELLO: (mildly) You been a bad boy, Sidney.  J.J.'s going to write about you in his column tomorrow.
SIDNEY: I thought he would.
KELLO: Yeah... (then) And another thing - he's gonna say you 'resisted arrest'... (as Sidney nods) You know J.J....!
HUNSECKER: (gently) Susie? (getting no answer) Are you in bed...?
HUNSECKER: (continuing) I don't have to tell you, of course, that I cleared your boyfriend's name; I didn't let you down...
HUNSECKER: ...I was saving this news for breakfast, but I think I'll jump the gun!  I'M GONNA GIVE YOU AND
HUNSECKER: Susie...?
HUNSECKER (O.S.): (outside) I'm getting the Mayor to perform the ceremony and - NO, I think I'll fly the Governor down from Albany... (a pause) Do you hear...?
HUNSECKER (O.S.): (outside) Are you listening?...
HUNSECKER: (a note of anger appearing in his voice) Susie!...You won't threaten me!...Nobody walks out on J.J. Hunsecker!
HUNSECKER: (continuing) You need me - you all need me!...
HUNSECKER (O.S.): "The Lord is my Shepherd; I shall not want". (a sneering laugh) That's bunk in a book!  I'm the Shepherd of millions of little men and women!...
HUNSECKER: (continuing) ...I don't ask them to get on their knees, but they come to me for advice and guidance!  Who are you to reject me!
HUNSECKER: (continuing) What makes YOU fit to sit in judgment on a man like me.  Only a great person understands another great person, and that leaves you out!
HUNSECKER: (continuing) - That leaves you ALL out!  You're pigmies!  You're all sick, weak midgets!  I'm proud to be alone!...
