RON: It's called a newspaper. You heard of
RON: What a waste. All that fine Hollywood pussy on a guy who smokes his friends. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 2
RON: C'mon Rog, this ain't the sandbox. Twenty's the minimum.
ROG: Who the hell's Rock Hudson?
RON: Calm the nerves, brother. You look
RON: It's your day, I can feel it.
RON: Eight seconds and you'll be gettin blown by a hundred dollar hooker before you can scrape the bullshit off your boots.
RON: C'mon! One one thousand, two one thousand, three one thousand. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 3
RON: Ah hen shit!
RON: Hey, buddy I need you to arrest me.
TUCKER: Fuck off, Woodroof.
RON: Come on, man. I'm serious!
TUCKER: Looks like you got a few pissed off You gonna cuff me or what?
RON: You gonna cuff me or what?
TUCKER: Figure it out yourself.
TUCKER: You son of a bitch!
TUCKER: Get the fuck outta here before I arrest all of you. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 4
RON: Gotta die from somethin'.
TUCKER: Handle your business, huh? Get your shit together.
RON: You're startin' to sound like your ol' man. How's he doin' by the way?
TUCKER: ( beat ) There's good days and bad.
RON: ( waving him off ) Ah, he's a tough one. ( beat ) Though I can't imagine how disappointed he must be havin' you for a son.
TUCKER: Get the fuck outta my car.
RON: ( covers ) You rattled my fuckin' brain.
TUCKER: What brain? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 5
RON: That shit is purer than a preacher daughter's pussy.
CLINT: Not after you just coughed your lungs all over it.
RON: What do you wanna go work for a buncha sand niggas for?
RON: They got hot ladies over there?
RON: Now that takes me out right there.
FOREMAN: Woodroof, there's been an accident on platform five. They need an electrician right away!
RON: Dumb spic. How'd you get your leg in
RON: Where's the ambulance?
FOREMAN: He's illegal.
RON: Go call `em. Go FUCKING call `em.
RON: Alright we're going to get you outta there but you gotta stay still until I say get the fuck out and then you get the fuck out. Comprende? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 7
RICK FERRIS: With the onset of HIV, however, we at Barrow Wilkem began a trial in which we administered AZT to infected lab animals. Initial findings suggested increased CD4 counts, restored T-cell immunity and also evidence of inducing weight gain.
SEVARD: Isn't it also true that it had some concerning side effects in animal tests, significantly decreasing the animals red and white blood cells?
RICK FERRIS: Yes, but its effect on the virus is better than anything else that's been In 64, when AZT was developed for cancer treatment, it was shelved due to lack of anti cancer efficacy and toxicity. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 8
EVE: ( looking into her file ) In 64, when AZT was developed for cancer treatment, it was shelved due to lack of anti cancer efficacy and toxicity. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 8
RICK FERRIS: We believe those problems were dosage So you're conducting another animal Actually the FDA has given us permission to go straight to human trials which is what brings me here today. We're conducting a double-blind, placebo- controlled randomized trial throughout the United States. Dallas Mercy is one of the proposed sites.
EVE: So you're conducting another animal Actually the FDA has given us permission to go straight to human trials which is what brings me here today. We're conducting a double-blind, placebo- controlled randomized trial throughout the United States. Dallas Mercy is one of the proposed sites.
RICK FERRIS: Actually the FDA has given us permission to go straight to human trials which is what brings me here today. We're conducting a double-blind, placebo- controlled randomized trial throughout the United States. Dallas Mercy is one of the proposed sites.
EVE: How long do you see the study going on?
RICK FERRIS: We're hoping to fast track it within a year? During which time the hospital and its administering physicians will be very well compensated for their efforts.
RICK FERRIS: Sadly, the AIDS crisis will only get worse before it gets better. And I know I speak for everyone at Barrow Wilkem when I say getting this drug to market is our number one priority. This is a unique opportunity. A chance to be on the forefront in finding a cure.
EVE: Does it not drive you just a little bit crazy when these guys stand up there talking about curing the sick while they're flashing gold Rolexes? What do they know about sick patients?
DR. SEVARD: They're pharma reps, not doctors. And like it or not, this is a business. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 8A
DR. SEVARD: How the hell did they get permission to go to human trials?
DR. SEVARD: People are desperate. People are dying. There is nothing else out there.
DR. SEVARD: Mr. Woodroof. I'm Dr. Sevard.
DR. SEVARD: We saw something that concerned us in your initial blood work so we ran some additional tests.
EVE: Blood tests. What kinda blood tests, cause I don't use We didn't test you for drugs.
RON: What kinda blood tests, cause I don't use We didn't test you for drugs.
EVE: We didn't test you for drugs.
RON: Good, cause that ain't none of yer business anyway.
DR. SEVARD: You've tested positive for HIV
DR. SEVARD: .the virus that causes AIDS.
RON: Who you kidding, Rock cock sucking Hudson Have you ever used intravenous drugs or had any homosexual
DR. SEVARD: Have you ever used intravenous drugs or had any homosexual
RON: Homo? Homo? That's what you said, right? Shit. You gotta be kidding me. I ain't no faggot, I don't even know any faggots, I'm a rodeo!
RON: Look at me, doc. Come on now, look at me. What do you see?
DR. SEVARD: Your T-cell count is down to nine, a healthy person has five hundred to fifteen hundred.
RON: What the fuck's a three-Cell?!
DR. SEVARD: T-cell. Frankly we're surprised you're Well surprise this: you've made a fuckin'
RON: Well surprise this: you've made a fuckin'
RON: You must've mixed my blood with some daisy puller or sumptin.
EVE: We ran the blood test several times.
EVE: That's some information on HIV and AIDS you may find informative and your test
DR. SEVARD: Mr. Woodroof, we're trying to impress upon you the gravity of your situation.
RON: Thirty days?
RON: What is this shit?!
RON: I got a news flash for all y'all, there ain't nothin' out there that can kill Ron Woodroof in thirty days.
RON: Shit, you tell `em you got a cold and they'll give you two weeks off. You should try it.
RON: I mean I got a stupid cough and they tell me I got some HIV virus.
RON: ( mutters ) Hell, like I got the AIDS. Damn hospital, mixed up my blood samples.
RON: S'what I'm saying.
RON: Which is exactly why it's a mistake.
RON: You know me, T. You fuckin' serious?
KELLY: You said we would be dancin' by nine.
RON: I'll catch up with you.
RON: I'm cool.
NURSE FRAZIN: Dr. Sevard's not on today.
RON: Do I look like I can wait til tomorrow?
NURSE FRAZIN: If you'll tell me what the problem is
RON: Problem? Which problem you want to hear about? My lungs bleeding, my skin crawling, the jackhammer in my head. hell that's just the beginning of my problems sweetheart.
EVE: Mr. Woodroof?
RON: I don't want no nurse. I want a doctor. A goddamn doctor! Today! NOW!
EVE: Fine. How can I help you?
RON: Are you fuckin' deaf, lady? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 15
EVE: No. I'm a fucking doctor!
EVE: If you want to discuss your list of problems, you can meet me in my office in twenty minutes.
RON: Twenty minutes? I like your style, Doctor.
RON: Barrow Wilkem just released it for testing, right? This hospital is one of the sites.
RON: Well can I buy some?
EVE: That isn't how it works. For about a year, a group of patients will either get the drug or a placebo, it's left up to chance, not even the doctors are allowed to know.
RON: You give dyin' people sugar pills?
EVE: It's the only way to know if a drug Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 16
RON: Can you get it for me?
EVE: Unfortunately no. But when it's proven to work and if you fit the profile, then So, you're tellin' me I'm as good as a horse being sold for dog food?
RON: So, you're tellin' me I'm as good as a horse being sold for dog food?
RON: Okay, what about in Germany, this Dextran Sulfate, or in France they got DDC, or AL 721 in Israel. I read that one is proven to work and it ain't toxic.
EVE: None of those drugs have been approved by the FDA.
RON: Screw the FDA, I'm gonna be DOA. Do I have to sue this hospital to get me some Mr. Woodroof, I assure you that would be a waste of precious time.
EVE: Mr. Woodroof, I assure you that would be a waste of precious time.
RON: Call me Ron, will ya?
EVE: There is a support group that meets every day at Draddy Auditorium, perhaps you could share your feelings and concerns.
RON: I'm dying and you're tellin' me to go get a hug from a bunch of faggots?
RON: Good night, good day, and good riddance.
RON: Neddie Jay, one shot of Cactus and a Rolling Rock back.
RON: I can't believe how much I missed your ugly faces. Clint, where you hangin' your pants lately brother?
CLINT: Get me another beer, will you sweetheart?
RON: `Fuck you say?
CLINT: I said grab me a cold one, cupcake.
RON: You askin' me to kick yer ass?
CLINT: Nah, wouldn't wanna get none of that faggot blood on me.
RON: ( sarcastic ) Where you goin', bud? I thought you're my friend.
RON: Fuck all ya'll.
RICK FERRIS: In short, I'm happy to say that help may finally be on the way.
EFFEMINATE MAN: It's okay brother. We're all getting
RON: Tooth fairy, if we weren't in a public place right now, your teeth would be so far down your throat you'd be usin' your ass to chew food.
RICK FERRIS: The FDA standard procedure to approve a new drug is eight to twelve years -
RICK FERRIS: We are looking to fast track
RICK FERRIS: We're working closely with the FDA to make sure every effort is made
RICK FERRIS: It's both our job and the FDA's to make sure the drug is safe -
EFFEMINATE MAN: Is it true you can get it in Mexico?!
RON: ( mumbles to himself ) I need to slow it down a second, catch my breath. I'm not ready to crawl into a corner. You hear that? I'm not fucking ready. Man, if you're up there you better be listening.
STRIPPER: If you're not gonna look or buy a dance, you could at least tip me.
RON: I'll take a dance, but not fer me. Just shake it, he'll see you.
RON: And he walks off towards a man at the end of the bar: the Hispanic Orderly from the hospital.
RON: The hell you doin' here?
RON: Fuck you doin' in my house?
EVE: ( reviewing a chart ) You missed your last trial appointment.
RAYON: Do you like this blouse? Cause I think the neckline's too low.
EVE: Rayon, the whole point of this study is to determine whether AZT is helping Come on, Evie, you know there ain't no helpin' me.
RAYON: Come on, Evie, you know there ain't no helpin' me.
EVE: That doesn't mean I'm going to stop Why you so good to me?
RAYON: Why you so good to me?
HISPANIC ORDERLY: There ain't no more, they started lockin' it up.
RON: I got more cash.
ORDERLY: Here. In Mexico. A doctor, he has some.
RON: What the hell is this bullshit? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 23
RON: Eve frowns, didn't expect that.
EVE: You're in the hospital.
EVE: You almost died.
RON: I'm sure that didn't surprise anyone.
RON: Was that a smile? You've had a blood transfusion. Mr. Woodroof I'm doctor Sevard. I remember you. I need you to tell me where you obtained AZT from.
RON: Who said I was on AZT?
DR. SEVARD: Dealing in pharmaceutical drugs is I don't know what you're talking about.
EVE: Get some rest.
RON: Wait. We were just gettin' somewhere.
RAYON: I'm Rayon.
RON: Congratulations, fuck you and go back to your bed.
RAYON: Relax, I don't bite.
RAYON: I guess you're handsome in a Texas hick, white trash, dumb, kinda way.
RON: Get the fuck outta here, whatever you Sticks and stones, cowboy. You wanna play cards?
RAYON: Sticks and stones, cowboy. You wanna play cards?
RON: ( perking up ) You got cash?
RAYON: Full house. Jacks over threes.
RON: I'da figured you for queens.
RAYON: Sorry darlin'. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 25
RAYON: Breath. Relax.
RAYON: Here, drink some water.
RAYON: You gotta stay hydrated or your muscles will cramp.
RAYON: You got nice feet.
RON: Jesus Christ, I'm straight, OK!
RON: Why the fuck you in here anyway?
RAYON: The AZT trial. My friend is paying me to split my dose with him. That way we'll both get some.
RON: How much is he paying you?
RAYON: Five grand.
RON: I coulda charged him twenty.
RAYON: I coulda charged him twenty.
RON: How about me? Will you sell me some?
RAYON: Sorry, sweetie. I made a deal. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 26
RAYON: ( in Spanish ) Can you keep it down?
EVE: Where are you going?
RON: I signed myself out.
EVE: You're too sick to leave here.
RON: The worst-case scenario bein' what?
EVE: We can keep you comfortable at least.
RON: Thanks, but I prefer to die with my boots on.
EVE: As your doctor, I cannot recommend you to do this.
RON: Well as my doctor, can you get me some damn AZT?
RON: I still live here, you hear me?! I fuckin' live here!! Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 27
RON: Have fun, kids. It's all yours.
DR. VASS: You have something for me to sign?
RON: I'm lookin' for Dr. Vass.
DR. VASS: Speak up.
RON: I'm lookin' for Vass, for some AZT.
DR. VASS: Looking to poison yourself?
DR. VASS: That's from the chemical manufacturer who makes AZT, Sigma.
DR. VASS: First thing I tell my patients: you won't find that shit here!
VASS: Who stacked those boxes there? Check in with a nurse.
DR. VASS: Cocaine, alcohol, methamphetamine, AZT. That's what I call a recipe for disaster.
RON: ( looking around ) Doc, this place is a shit-hole.
DR. VASS: Who said I was a Doctor? They revoked my license to practice three years ago, that's why I'm down in this shit-hole.
RON: Why? What'd you do?
DR. VASS: I didn't play ball.
DR. VASS: These drugs you're doing, they're breaking down your immune system, making you susceptible to infections.
RON: So cocaine gave me pneumonia?
DR. VASS: Cocaine made you more susceptible. As did AZT.
RON: I thought AZT's supposed to help me.
DR. VASS: The only people AZT helps are the people who sell it. It kills every cell it comes in contact with, good and bad.
RON: So medically speakin', I kicked my own Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 30
DR. VASS: ( nods as he writes ) I'm prescribing a regimen of vitamins as well as the mineral zinc to build your immune system back up. You'll also be taking Aloe and essential fatty acids.
RON: DR. VASS
DR. VASS: Better. Your T-Cell count's improving.
RON: Am I still positive for HIV?
DR. VASS: You'll always test positive for HIV, and now, you have AIDS, due the toxic shit you've been pumping into your body, all the drugs, plus the AZT.
RON: If it sucks, I got it.
DR. VASS: This is DDC, it works as an anti viral similar to AZT but less toxic. And this is Peptide T, it's a protein totally non-toxic. Early studies have shown it can help with all of that. This is what I had you on since you got here.
RON: And you can't buy them back in the U.S.?
DR. VASS: No, not approved.
RON: Chinks, homos and herbs, you got a new world order here, Vass. You could be makin' a fortune off this stuff.
DR. VASS: If you get caught, don't tell them you got AIDS. They'll never let you back in. You've got thirty days to get your ass back down here and pay me the other half, after that I send MIGUEL. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 32
BORDER AGENT: Anything to declare.
RON: The Border Agent takes him in a moment, his outfit, the car, the frame of the trunk almost touching the wheel and.
RICHARD BARKLEY: I'm Richard Barkley from the Food and Drug Administration office.
RICHARD BARKLEY: You're a priest? Ron smiles. The customs agent doesn't.
RICHARD BARKLEY: You have over 2,000 pills here. You are only allowed to bring in a ninety day Well as I told the gentlemen, I am a sick man. I have cancer. I take 22 pills a day and these here vials of Vitamin A, C, E and Zinc. That there is ninety days.
RON: Well as I told the gentlemen, I am a sick man. I have cancer. I take 22 pills a day and these here vials of Vitamin A, C, E and Zinc. That there is ninety days.
RICHARD BARKLEY: ( no answer from Ron ) You do realize that importing unapproved drugs for sale is a very serious offense?
RON: Well, as I said, they're not for sale. And they ain't illegal, just "unapproved."
RICHARD BARKLEY: If we find the slightest indication that you're selling these drugs for profit, you will be thrown in jail. Father.
RON: Then I promise to take each and every one of them pills myself. In fact this present detainment has already put me off schedule. Son.
RON: I'm looking for Dr. Eve Saks.
NURSE FRAZIN: She's not here today. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 33A
EVE: It's open!
EVE: Mr. Woodroof. Ron, I thought you Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 34
RON: ( cutting her off ) Dead? Sorry for bargin' in.
EVE: What are you doing here? You look great.
RON: Actually I look amazin'. But you, you look like shit.
EVE: What happened to you?
RON: So you got any music? Or crackers?
EVE: I'm sorry, but what is this?
RON: It's a celebration of how absolutely fuckin' wrong you were.
EVE: Excuse me?
RON: Thirty days you said! Well here it is months later and I'm goin' like gangbusters. Now if that don't call for a little Cheez Whiz on a Ritz, I don't know what does!
EVE: No. Don't. I don't really eat here.
RAYON: Them bastards Kentucky fried me. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 35
RON: You women love Nancy Boys.
EVE: ( to Rayon ) Tell me what's wrong.
RON: Hell, I'll tell you what's wrong, it's the goddamn AZT!
EVE: It's killin' him, can't you see that? Why you think I look so healthy? Tinkerbell, how much cash you got?
RON: It's killin' him, can't you see that? Why you think I look so healthy? Tinkerbell, how much cash you got?
RON: Tinkerbell, how much cash you got?
EVE: What the hell do you think you're doing?!
RON: Helpin' him, that's what.
EVE: He's a participant in a clinical trial, we need to get him to the hospital!
RON: So they can fuck him up even worse?
EVE: Are you out of your mind?! If anything happens to him
RON: Relax, it's just a little vitamin boost, A, C, zinc.
EVE: It's a blind study! We don't even know if he's getting AZT!
RAYON: Everyone knows what they're gettin'. AZT tastes differently. I guess I got lucky and got the real thing.
RON: Yeah, real lucky. I've got stuff here that works. Healthy, non-toxic. You should trial it and we'll both get rich.
EVE: Leave, please!
RON: Tell your friends about me. Send `em my way and I'll hook `em up.
RON: And tell `em to bring their fuckin' money. Cash. No checks.
RON: Are you out of your fucking mind?!
EVE: This man also had a transfusion?
NURSE FRAZIN: The AZT. We can tell who's on it by the symptoms. Most of them need new blood.
EVE: ( looking at chart ) He's actually getting worse.
NURSE FRAZIN: So why are they stopping the trial?
EVE: What do you mean?
NURSE FRAZIN: Barrow Wilkem, didn't you see the memo? They claim most people are feeling better and fewer people are dying.
EVE: 56 INT. DALLAS MERCY HOSPITAL - HALLWAY - DAY 56
EVE: Transfusions always makes patients feel better. Give the placebo patients new blood and they'll feel better too. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 38
EVE: I have questions about the drug's safety. I've seen it drop white blood cells in a lot of my patients making them more susceptible to infection.
DR. SEVARD: It's Barrow Wilkem's call, Eve. So we can get the drug to the people who need After six months?
EVE: After six months?
DR. SEVARD: Their trial results are overwhelmingly positive. AZT is working.
EVE: But we have no idea what the long term effects are. It's irresponsible.
DR. SEVARD: These people die, Eve. There are no long-term effects.
EVE: Can I see a copy of the study?
DR. SEVARD: It's still being written. Here.
EVE: A press release from the NIH?
RON: ( pulls a 9mm pistol ) Jesus Mother Mary Fuckin' Christ!
RAYON: I was looking for you, Lonestar.
RON: I could of killed you!
RAYON: I feel better! I wanted to thank you.
RON: Good for you. Now get the fuck out!
RAYON: I need more of that cocktail shit you Listen Tinkerbell, unless you got cash or some new clients for me, I'm busy. Now get the f.
RON: Listen Tinkerbell, unless you got cash or some new clients for me, I'm busy. Now get the f.
RAYON: ( interrupting ) Let's just do this quickly so I can get the fuck out!
RAYON: You got enough for 20 of us?
RAYON: You know what? You don't deserve our money, you homophobic asshole!
RON: Am I fuckin' dreamin'?
RON: Here's enough for 20, find me 20 more and I'll cut you in. Five percent.
RAYON: Adios, cowboy.
RON: What's wrong?
RAYON: I can handle your insults, but five Twenty five, take it or leave it.
RON: Twenty five, take it or leave it.
RAYON: Twenty five, take it or leave it.
RON: Five grand worth of shit. Shit I owe money on.
RICHARD BARKLEY: Father Woodroof. 90 days supply? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 40A
RON: I was just sharing.
RICHARD BARKLEY: ( with compassion ) Listen, I know what the situation is. I know people are looking for solutions. But this is not the right one. This is dangerous. You can't sell drugs to people. Do you understand?
RON: Yeah, I understand. My client would like his drugs back for his own personal use. They've already been destroyed. I hope we have an understanding. You're breaking the law.
RAYON: You gotta be kidding me?!
RON: No, perfect place. We gotta lay low. Don't wanna get busted. I got a plan. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 41
RAYON: This place is disgusting. We need to Do not use the word "we". Now you wanna put your apron on and fly around on your broom, be my guest.
RON: Do not use the word "we". Now you wanna put your apron on and fly around on your broom, be my guest.
RON: Howdy Counselor, welcome.
RAYON: Hi, I'm Rayon.
RON: He's my partner. Business partner.
RON: Your office's next door.
DAVID WAYNE: Jesus, how many truck loads you bring back from Mexico? All for your own personal use? Here's the paper work for your LLC. I don't even want to know what it's for.
RON: Don't worry, Counselor. I ain't selling drugs anymore. I'm giving them away. For free. By selling memberships. Four hundred a month in dues gets you all the meds you Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 42
DAVID WAYNE: You son of a bitch!
RON: Bitches. Plural. There's a bunch of faggots runnin' a hell of a club up in New York. That's where I got the idea. Welcome to the Dallas Buyers Club.
NEWS ANCHOR: Barrow Wilkem announced today that AZT has been approved as the first drug to treat AIDS. At a cost of $10,000 per year per patient, AZT is the most expensive drug ever marketed. Barrow Wilkem stock jumped a whopping 12% today on the news.
RON'S OFFICE: Ron is behind a desk, atop which sits a gun, a bottle of Tequila and dozens of medical files. On the wall nearby are posters of SPORTS CARS and BIKINI MODELS as well as the Texas Wildflowers painting, news clippings regarding AIDS and a crude CHART listing Patients and their info: SYMPTOMS, DRUGS TAKEN, and ORIENTATION ( Gay, Drug Addict, Hemophiliac ).
RAYON: ( as he enters ) Roanie, we have two new customers.
RON: Bring 'em in and if you call me Roanie .I'ma use this gun to give you the sex change you been hopin' for.
RON: Ah shit, did I scare you? Sorry. Welcome to the Dallas Buyers Club.
MICHAEL: Rayon said you can get us some medicine.
RON: He told you how it works? Treatments and drugs are free, but the membership, 400$.
RON: ( handing them a clipboard ) You'll have to sign a waiver. We take no responsibility for the drugs we give you. You croak, you croak. That's your
MICHAEL: We have AZT, it helped Ian a little at first, but now he can't walk or think First of all, flush that shit down the toilet. Secondly, stay away from anything that'll cook your insides. Third, get healthy and if your brain's broke, I got something called Peptide T that'll fix it. Michael looks at Ian, not sure what to think. Ron hands them each a questionnaire.
RON: First of all, flush that shit down the toilet. Secondly, stay away from anything that'll cook your insides. Third, get healthy and if your brain's broke, I got something called Peptide T that'll fix it. Michael looks at Ian, not sure what to think. Ron hands them each a questionnaire.
RON: Fill that there out and don't cheat on the drugs part. Can't help you if I don't know what you're doin'.
RON: I got more stuff comin' in about a week. Til then, watch what you eat and who you
EVE: He didn't call, leave a message?
NURSE FRAZIN: ( then; off file ) He did change his address recently.
RON: Never mind. I'll call back. Thank you.
EVE: What are you doing here?
RON: I live here. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 45
EVE: Where's Rayon? You're roommates now?
RON: Not exactly. What are you doing here?
EVE: Roger Thompson? This is my patient. Are you treating these people?
RON: They're treatin' themselves.
EVE: With what?
RON: Vitamins, Peptide T, DDC. Anything but that poison you're hawkin'.
RON: Do you ever wear any color? Every time I see you I see white.
EVE: Tell Rayon I was looking for him. And I'm telling my patients to stay away from
RON: Why? You wanna go grab a steak? I know it's red but.
RON: This is the shit that'll rot your insides. What a surprise, FDA approved. What the fuck is potassium benzoate?
RAYON: Rayon throws a pack of bologna in the cart.
RON: You fuckin' kiddin' me?
RON: Don't pollute me with that processed crap. I'm eatin' healthy.
RAYON: It's protein, it's good for you.
RON: Put it back.
RAYON: You can't tell me what to do. Uh, hey Ron.
RON: Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 47 Rayon appears at the other end of the isle. T.J. sees him and T.J. looks at Ron for confirmation. Rayon reaches them and throws a bag of chips in the cart.
RAYON: T.J. and Ron don't answer. An awkward beat.
RON: This is Rayon. He said hi to you.
RON: Shake his hand, T.J.
RON: Come on, buddy, what's your fuckin' Good. Now get the fuck outta here and go back to your miserable life.
RON: Good. Now get the fuck outta here and go back to your miserable life.
RON: Rayon's moved that Ron stuck up for him. He starts to tear Ron sees the bag of chips in the cart and throws it at Rayon.
RON: Fifty bucks. You don't got the money, you don't join the club. This ain't no charity.
RON: You need three hundred and fifty more.
DENISE: Beaumont Lab's delivery is here. A woman says you were expecting her.
FRANCINE SUSKIND: You can get it abroad but in the States, we can only use it for animal research. It's not classified as a drug so the FDA does not control it.
RON: I'm usin' it for memory loss. You oughta try gettin' it to market.
FRANCINE SUSKIND: It costs around 250 million dollars to get a drug to market. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 49
RON: Damn, bureaucracy is good business.
FRANCINE SUSKIND: These are for your animal research.
RON: And these are for your daughter.
RAYON: You're all packed, here's your ticket. Jesus! Are you fuckin' high?
RON: ( keeps the money ) Jesus! Are you fuckin' high?
RAYON: None of your business.
RON: Actually, it is if I can't fuckin' trust
RON: You're in charge!
RAYON: ( grabs the money ) No! You can trust me! They stare at each other.
RON: Make sure my new Caddy is at the airport for when I get back.
RAYON: Got it.
RON: Denise, you hearin' this? Now you two monkeys take care of the zoo.
RON: ( to Denise ) Keep an eye on him.
MR. YAMATA: Mr. Woodroof?
RON: That's me.
MR. YAMATA: Regarding your order. I am so sorry, but we are no longer allowed to export interferon to the United States.
RON: What do you mean?
MR. YAMATA: I am sorry. I know you've come a long
RON: Fourteen hours on a plane, but hey, who gives a shit, right?
MR. YAMATA: ( cutting him off ) Please understand. Japanese doctors will be the only ones who can make the
DR. HIROSHI: ( in Japanese ) .that is correct. Two thousand vials of alpha interferon.
DR. HIROSHI: ( in Japanese ) That's right. Delivered directly to my office. Thank you. ( to Ron ) Slow drip. Very strong. Slow drip.
RON: Yeah, I'm coming. Prepare the sedation. Propofol. 10 milligrams.
DR. SEVARD: We don't know what the drugs are. He's got HIV.
TUCKER: 80 INT. DALLAS MERCY HOSPITAL - ROOM - CONTINUOUS 80
RON: That a party out there?
DR. SEVARD: Mr. Woodroof. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 53
RON: Doc-tor Sevard! You must be surprised to see me.
DR. SEVARD: You nearly killed yourself. We need to know where you acquired those drugs.
RON: ( re: I.V. tube ) And I need to know what you're pumpin' into me here.
DR. SEVARD: A combination of AZT.
RON: What? Get it out!
RON: I'm gonna sue you for attempted murder! Where's my stuff?
DR. SEVARD: Your stuff gave you a heart attack.
RON: Go to hell. I say what goes in my body, not you. Final. Period. End of story.
DR. SEVARD: That decision, like it or not, is left up to the people in this hospital.
RON: This thing's an epidemic and you're still lookin for guinea pigs. Well do I look like a rodent to you?
RICHARD BARKLEY: Mr. Woodroof, we tolerate the Buyers Clubs. Now, every other organization in the country is dancing with us but for some reason, either you don't understand what we're saying or you just don't give a shit.
DR. SEVARD: You're a fool if you think you're helping
RON: That's right. I fooled you. You told me I'd be dead in thirty days.
RON: Now I'm through with you. You got anything to say, tell it to my real doctor, Dr. Saks.
RAYON: I was so worried
RON: ( looks around ) Where's my suitcase?
SEVARD: Mr. Woodroof, would you please get back in bed?
RON: Nope. And if you're gonna call an orderly on me, you'd better fuckin' do it, cuz this motherfucker is going home.
DR. SEVARD: You're his physician and you can't tell me what medications he's on?
EVE: He came in once for advice. I have no idea what he does outside of this Well the FDA confiscated over two thousand vials of alpha interferon. that he was about to sell to AIDS patients. Our patients!
DR. SEVARD: Well the FDA confiscated over two thousand vials of alpha interferon. that he was about to sell to AIDS patients. Our patients!
EVE: ( testing the waters ) Actually, I've been reading about Buyers Clubs. They say they found other drugs that are eliminating symptoms.
DR. SEVARD: Without controlled trials, we'll never be able to cure this thing because we'll have no legitimate data. Tell your patients to stay away from him.
RAYON: ( holding a phone ) This guy says the Florida Buyers Club is Then tell him to move to the fuckin' sunshine state!
RON: Then tell him to move to the fuckin' sunshine state!
RON: ( into phone ) What do you mean you can't get it back?! It was authorized by a doctor!
RON: cause that's where I'm fuckin' goin'!
RON: I got first hand experience with all of 'em. And I'll tell you something else, if I don't know what somethin' is, or don't trust the white coat who's trying to sell it to me, I fed-ex it to my lab in Seattle and they test if for me.
RON: Then I test it all on myself before I give it to anyone else. I'm my own lab rat.
RON: Compound Q. You know what happens if I come off it? My hair falls out, I lose weight, I can't get my dick up and I start to die. I got three hundred other people with the same experience. Peptitde T. Gets rid of dementia. Stop takin' it and you can't think straight, walk straight, or act straight. I got over two hundred people on that. You following me? DDC and DDI, both toxic, but in small doses, helps kick opportunistic Ron, I respect that you're learning about your illness but some of these people should be in the hospital.
EVE: Ron, I respect that you're learning about your illness but some of these people should be in the hospital.
RON: All the hospital wants is to serve up
EVE: AZT helps eradicate the virus. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 58A
RON: Fuck the virus, once you got that, you're married to it. I'm more concerned about my symptoms and survival. I mean, I'm no scientist but.
RAYON: ( mocking him ) You're not? 'Cause you sound so.
RON: You fuckin' high again?
RAYON: ( giggling ) I dunno.
RON: Are you listenin' to what I'm sayin' here about usin' that shit? And what the fuck did you do to my wall?!
RAYON: It's cranberry mocha. For the holidays. People can live with this thing for longer than they're saying. Ninety-six- percent of people diagnosed with AIDS in the U S of A will be dead in under six I know the statistics.
RON: People can live with this thing for longer than they're saying. Ninety-six- percent of people diagnosed with AIDS in the U S of A will be dead in under six I know the statistics.
EVE: I know the statistics.
RON: Then use them. Why give people AZT when their immune system is broken? It's fuckin' toxic!
EVE: If you're abusing it, like you did, with no medical surveillance, of course it is.
RON: Maybe I did abuse it, but I'm off it now, and I'm here, feeling good. And I'm not the only one.
RON: Why is Boy George's goddamned face everywhere in my room?
RAYON: It's Marc Bolan, silly! Why don't you just get it over with and say it, you love it!
RON: ( re: Rayon's Friend ) Take your sunflower and get out.
RAYON: Rayon and Sunny leave the room, laughing. Ron TEARS down Bolan's pictures, and throws down the folder.
RON: You know what, look at it, don't look at it, I don't give a shit. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 59
DR. SEVARD: Where the hell are my trial patients? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 60
RON: Don't touch!
RON: If you ain't doin' poppers and coke, how come you look like such shit?
RON: You pussy, stick it in. Who do you think is gonna do that when I ain't here?
RON: Rayon, I swear, God sure was dressin' the wrong doll when he blessed you with a pair of balls. Give me that thing.
RON: You know it's one thing for me not to like you, but why don't you be a better friend to yourself?
RAYON: If I really thought you were interested, I'd tell you. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 61
RON: What are you doin' here?
DAVID WAYNE: ( holds up paper ) You're being audited. The IRS.
RON: Nice work, fellas, great. This is how you got Al Capone, ain't it?
DAVID WAYNE: Don't piss them off. If there's a fine, we'll pay it.
RON: A fine? Fine, alright, how much? Ten thousand? Twenty thousand? I'll write you a check right now.
RON: You think that will stop me, you
RAYON: Honey, you don't have a snowball's chance wearing that thing.
RON: Rayon, I don't need help gettin' ladies from your sorry ass.
RAYON: Trailer trash and rodeo groupies do not count as ladies. Are you sure she said the word yes?
RAYON: You got any flowers?
RON: It's the Wildflowers. Texas style.
EVE: They're beautiful. Thank you. And I don't even have to water them.
RON: Thanks for coming.
RON: The IRS is on my ass. I wonder who tipped them off?
EVE: You don't actually believe I would do Nah. But you gonna have to watch what you say when you're around that snake you work with. He's the virus I'm worried about. As a matter fact, if you hear of
RON: Nah. But you gonna have to watch what you say when you're around that snake you work with. He's the virus I'm worried about. As a matter fact, if you hear of
RON: Bring us your best bottle of Cabernet.
RON: Nice restaurant, beautiful woman. I feel like a human being again. How come you ain't got no high powered corporate honey to take you dancin'?
EVE: I don't dance.
RON: That's cause you don't got a honey. How old are you anyway? Twenty two? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 64
EVE: Why are we here?
RON: To eat, drink, enjoy life, be merry.
EVE: Yeah right.
RON: Take a break, relax, breathe, Saks.
RON: Normal people do that, ya know.
RON: So why'd you become a doctor?
EVE: Because I was good in science. And my father said studying history was a waste of time. So I went to med school.
RON: Not what I thought you'd say but makes sense, your dad was a practical man.
EVE: Yes, he was. Your turn. Why did you become. an electrician, right?
RON: Well my old man was an electrician. A good one too. But he was a better drinker. Which I learned from him as
RON: So I was around it a lot. Got pretty good at takin' shit apart, seein' how the insides worked, and then puttin' it back together. I was good at it and it put some change in my pocket.
EVE: What about your mom?
RON: She was a painter, kind of a gypsy. She got tired a' all the shit and left. You know how it is.
EVE: ( re: Wildflowers ) She painted that, your mom?
RON: Don't feel like you gotta hang it. I know you like everything perfect.
EVE: I do not. I'll hang it. I'm going to hang it. It's just. are you sure you don't want to keep it?
RON: You need to enjoy your life, little lady. You only got one. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 65
RON: I'm gonna kill him!
RON: We're running low on DDC and Peptide-T, I thought you were stocking this?
RAYON: Sit down and shut up.
NEWS ANCHOR: New studies have proven that AZT is effective in stopping the progression of AIDS in asymptomatic cases. Dr. Anthony Fauci, head of the National Institute of Health, announced that a trial had clearly shown that early AZT intervention will keep AIDS at bay. AZT is the only drug that has been shown in scientifically controlled trials to be safe and effective, Fauci contended.
EVE: I want all my HIV patients on the asymptomatic study to have their AZT doses lowered to the minimum, 600
RON: That's four pills, three times a day with food. The vitamins too.
RON: The hell's all this?
TUCKER: Sorry, Ron. Gentlemen, I'm gonna need you all to leave the premises in an orderly fashion, please!
RICHARD BARKLEY: Mr. Woodroof, I have a court order permitting us to confiscate any and all non-FDA approved drugs or supplements.
RON: In other words, my entire inventory.
RON: Aloe vera! It's a plant. What do you give a shit if people eat plants?
RICHARD BARKLEY: It's improperly labeled. That's a violation of FDA regulations.
RON: It's a bullshit technicality and you know it! Get my lawyer on the phone.
RICHARD BARKLEY: Our primary concern is preventing a market for illegal drugs.
RON: Illegal? Unapproved! These are vitamins and minerals, for Chrissake!
RICHARD BARKLEY: Vitamins and minerals that gave you a heart attack, remember?
RON: I'm not selling that stuff, you confiscated it, remember? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 68
RON: ( sarcastic ) What's the matter, you got Alzheimer, ( pointing at the blue boxes ) 'Cause Peptide T works for Alzheimers too, ya know?
RON: Come on, it's a protein! Effective with dementia which I have. Why don't you just look at my research?
RICHARD BARKLEY: Woodroof, I wouldn't want you to spend your last days in jail. If you have a product you'd like tested, fill out an application and go through the process.
RON: Don't threaten me! I'm unapproved motherfucker! The process? That's just FDA bullshit for pay up! 250 million
RICHARD BARKLEY: You'll be receiving your fine for non compliance and improper labelling soon. Your lawyer.
RAYON: Your lawyer.
RON: These fuckers are comin' at me from all angles! I wanna file a restraining What? Against who?
RON: The Government and their fuckin' FDA!
RON: We gotta relocate!
DR. SEVARD: Who gave you permission to lower your patients' AZT doses?
EVE: I don't need permission. I'm their I want those doses readjusted immediately. The study protocol does not allow dose reductions.
DR. SEVARD: I want those doses readjusted immediately. The study protocol does not allow dose reductions.
EVE: I'm not doing a study for people who are asymptomatic with a toxic drug that makes them sick. We don't treat people who have antibodies for pneumonia or chicken pox when they're healthy. Why should HIV be any different?
DR. SEVARD: It's a different kind of virus.
EVE: Says who? Barrow Wilkem?!
EVE: Besides, I consulted with each of them individually, it was their decision.
FRANK YOUNG: .Americans with life-threatening illnesses will be permitted to import small quantities of unapproved drugs for their personal use. Under this arrangement, the drugs may only be purchased by individuals who have been prescribed the medication by a physician.
RAYON: What the fuck does that mean?
RON: It means we were unapproved. Now we're
RON: Let's get outta here.
RON: Send a round of beers over to my friends.
RAYON: Save your money, we're broke. Our credit cards are maxed.
RAYON: How bout that size? Those would look good on me.
RON: You ain't gettin' tits, Rayon. Memberships are high and so is demand. So we recruit more members from where?
RAYON: Support groups.
RON: Yep! I'm gotta find MDs to write them prescriptions so we can keep dealin' these drugs. legally now.
RAYON: In the meantime we could try the bank?
RON: Oh yeah, Bonnie and Clyde comin' in for a loan. Stop starin' at her tits, you're startin' to look normal.
RON: This place is crap, I'll give you one fifty a month and fifty percent off your Mr. Woodroof
IAN: Mr. Woodroof
RON: Don't try to con me
IAN: We don't want money.
RON: What do you want?
IAN: The house is free. We want to help.
RON: Oh. Well that's good news.
RON: Hello. Howdy.
RON: I got what you got and I have traveled the world looking for alternative medications, stuff not available yet in America, thanks to the good folks down at the FDA. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 73
RON: Some of you may have heard of the Dallas Buyers Club, an organization I founded with my friend Rayon. Risk might be high, but what the hell, you're risking your life every time you go into one of them there hospitals. I don't know where most of the people are who were at these meetings a year and a half ago. maybe they lost interest. maybe they're dead. but I'm here. I'm walking, talking, breathing. and ain't no one gonna take that away from me. I gotta life to lead. The point of our club was to get alternative treatments and medications into the hands of those who need 'em. The cost of joining this club used to be $400 a month. Well I'm here tonight with a special offer. Anyone who's interested can come and sign up for the one-time only, rock bottom price of zero. That's right, I'm giving it away folks.
RON: HIV don't mean shit. You ain't sick, you ain't sick. Period. You tell a guy he's got a week to live? Shit, he's already dead. You tell a guy he can keep on goin'? He'll find a way. Remember, ya ain't dyin'. But if you think you are then you ain't got nothing to lose.
RAYON: Guess I didn't make the cut.
THE MAN: You made that choice yourself.
RAYON: It wasn't a choice, Dad. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 74
RAYON'S FATHER: What do you want, Raymond?
RAYON: I'm fine, thanks. And you? Long time no I suppose I should thank you for wearing men's clothes and not embarrassing me.
RAYON'S FATHER: I suppose I should thank you for wearing men's clothes and not embarrassing me.
RAYON: ( sarcastic ) Are you ashamed of me? Because I never realized that.
RAYON'S FATHER: ( shaking his head ) God help me.
RAYON: He is helpin' you. I got AIDS.
RAYON: I'm sorry, dad. I found someone who's been helping me and now I'd like to help
RAYON: God, when I meet you, I'm gonna look pretty if it's the last thing I do. I'll be a super model angel.
RON: What? No, please, wait a minute, doc. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 75
RON: All the MDs are fuckin' backpeddlin' on their heels. The FDA is scaring them with license revocation if they write
RAYON: Maybe this will help.
RON: Where'd you get that?
RON: Did you sell your ass?
RON: Really, come on, where did you get it?
RAYON: I sold my life insurance policy.
EVE: What are you doing?
RON: Goin' to Mexico, chica, you comin'?
EVE: Do I look like someone who takes Come on, tequila, sunshine, tacos, never hurt anybody.
RON: Come on, tequila, sunshine, tacos, never hurt anybody.
RON: I knew you'd rain on my party, but I had to give it a shot. Listen, I gotta ask you a favor. I need you to write me prescriptions so I can come across the border. I might not need it but if I do, I'll have them.
RON: You know this rule that the FDA just passed was just bullshit. Ain't no doc from here to the north pole will write I know and I can't either. I'm sorry. We can't write scripts for random people and random drugs. Plus what if something goes wrong with these drugs? We could get sued, lose our license.
EVE: I know and I can't either. I'm sorry. We can't write scripts for random people and random drugs. Plus what if something goes wrong with these drugs? We could get sued, lose our license.
RON: Okay! Never hurts to ask.
RON: Keep it, nurse Ratched!
SUNNY: You need to go to the hospital.
SUNNY: That's it. I'm driving you, right now. Okay, okay. I'll go. Put me down. Let me get some things first.
RAYON: Okay, okay. I'll go. Put me down. Let me get some things first.
DR. VASS: Secretions that the caterpillar uses to protect itself during the incubation
DR. VASS: .act as a non-toxic anti-viral for humans. The answer to a question. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 78
DR. VASS: ( handing it to Ron ) The Lancet medical journal published a study conducted in France. Proves AZT alone is too toxic for most to tolerate, and had no lasting effect on HIV blood levels. Of course, Barrow Wilkem and the NIH did not include the study in their press release.
RON: Doesn't surprise me at all.
DR. VASS: These are early trial results for The anti-fungal, right? I read about You want to take some home?
RON: The anti-fungal, right? I read about You want to take some home?
DR. VASS: You want to take some home?
RON: As much I can carry.
DR. VASS: We need a thousand more like you.
RON: Hell Vass, I'm just tryin' to run a
NURSE FRAZIN: I took him off of it as you instructed. He's just on morphine now.
EVE: Good. I'll be in my office. Thanks for Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 79
RON: Yes sir.
RON: No shit? Well how's that for a Isn't this a little ridiculous?
RON: You said it.
RON: Can you prove they're not?
DENISE: Those are the emergencies.
RON: Where's Rayon?
DENISE: At the hospital. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 81
RON: As Ron walks past her, Nurse Frazin grabs the phone.
NURSE FRAZIN: I need security up here, right away.
RON: Ron spots Sevard.
RON: There you are, you son of a bitch.
RON: You killed him.
DR. SEVARD: What are you talking about?
RON: You call yourself a doctor? You are a Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 82
DR. SEVARD: Leave or you will be arrested.
RON: Arrest me? Did you hear that?
RON: First class everything, big house, Mercedes Benz. That's what they pay him to say it's OK to pump poison into y'all.
RON: Get away from me. I got AIDS. I'll spit on you.
DENISE: ( re: sick men ) From Austin. All on AZT. Their insurance is paying for the treatment and they don't know if they can afford to Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 83
RON: Hook `em up.
DENISE: We're pretty cash poor.
RON: Sell my car and make sure everyone gets what they need.
RON: Just dance.
RON: Anemia, Cancer, Bone Marrow depletion, Fever, Diarrhea, Vomiting, Neuropathy, Anxiety, Dizziness, Impotence, Hearing loss, Nervousness, Seizures. Sound like AIDS to you? That there comes inside a box of AZT, a list of side effects.
EVE: Rayon was a drug addict! It wasn't a day on AZT that killed him, but the disease as a whole!
EVE: Ron, you stole my prescription pad! So don't accuse me of acting irresponsibly! Rayon came to the hospital on his own.
RON: ( cutting her off ) . and got carried out in a trash bag three days later!
EVE: ( yelling ) He was my friend too, you know! Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 84
RON: Let me ask you something. Let's say I have the cure right here in my back pocket. I could save everyone today.
RON: But I don't have no funding and I don't have no backing. Now how long is it gonna take before the FDA approves it?
RON: Read that and you tell me how wrong is too wrong?
DAVID WAYNE: They shut her lab down. The FDA has shut all of our suppliers down, what can I tell you?
RON: If I don't get it by the end of the week I wanna file a lawsuit.
DAVID WAYNE: Come on, Ron, we lost the restraining order, remember? We're in Texas. The court system is the last resort for you. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 85
RON: Well find a place where it's not, Goddamnit. Go to San Francisco, get a sissy judge, figure it out!
RON: 129 INT. DALLAS MERCY HOSPITAL - PEDIATRIC WARD - DAY 129
EVE: What's going on?
DR. SEVARD: Barrow Wilkem gave us the green light on the AZT pediatric trials.
EVE: What? This is crazy! All these kids are HIV positive?
DR. SEVARD: We're starting very slowly with a fifth of a dose.
EVE: Would you give this fifth of a dose to your own child?
RON: Here you go, please read this.
RON: I'm givin' people information. on this trial I'm in, right now. I want everyone here to know what's going on.
RICHARD BARKLEY: And what is going on?
RON: Why was Peptide T cut off? A non-toxic drug, that I have proof works and that according to the National Institute of Mental Health, is completely safe.
RICHARD BARKLEY: Mr. Woodroof, you are nothing but a common drug dealer
RON: I'm a drug dealer? You're the drug dealer. The pharmaceutical companies are the drug dealers.
RON: The yellow number fives, red, green and purple dye you put in this here candy causes seven kinds a cancer. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 87
RON: The aspartame in my diet coke, the steroids in my meat, the hormones in my milk, the antibiotics in the chicken. Now that's the shit the FDA knows will kill you. Yet you're all up there worried that some sick people will find somethin' without you and y'all won't get
RON: Oh I'm bad, I'm nationwide!
DR. SEVARD: We think it is in everyone's best interest that you resign. I won't. You'll have to fire me.
EVE: I won't. You'll have to fire me.
EVE: Y'all go fuck yourselves!
RON: One left.
EVE: We're splitting that. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 88
RON: That was a ballsy move!
RON: A nice, warm hug. .and a day of watchin' some bull ridin', that's what you need, doctor Woodroof's order.
RON: Don't you miss a regular life?
EVE: Regular? What's that? Doesn't exist.
RON: Yeah, I guess. I just want.
EVE: He takes the can back.
RON: . an ice-cold beer at Ruby's. Go dancin' with my woman. I want kids. thumb wrestle with my sons. I don't know. I got one life mine. But I want someone else's. I feel I'm fighting for a life I ain't got the time to live.
RON: I want it all to mean somethin'.
EVE: It does.
TUCKER: I'll take care of this.
TUCKER: Ron! You are in the middle of the street. Do you understand what I'm
TUCKER: Come on, man, let's go home.
TUCKER'S FATHER: Of course I remember you, trouble maker.
RON: I still am!
RON: I'm glad you're doin' better, sir.
TUCKER: I'm gonna talk with Ron a minute, pop.
TUCKER: Listen, the FDA is gonna bust you
RON: Thanks for the tip, Tuck.
TUCKER: I'll be there, man, and don't you fuckin' hit me again!
EVE: ( to the reporter ) This is Fluconazole. It helps them with No one move. Put your hands in the air.
RICHARD BARKLEY: No one move. Put your hands in the air.
TUCKER: Ronald Woodroof?
TUCKER: I have a warrant for your arrest, a search warrant for the premises, and a court order to cease and desist business
RICHARD BARKLEY: Turn off that camera. Now!
RICHARD BARKLEY: ( to Ron ) Please instruct the rest of these people to leave, now.
RON: I ain't no cop. Why'nt you tell 'em?
RON: It's the bust of the century! Don't they look like hardened criminals?! Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 92
RON: Deadly drugs? What the fuck?
DAVID WAYNE: They wrote the FDA's story.
RON: I can't believe it. I tipped those assholes off.
DAVID WAYNE: Don't worry. I got good news. I got you a change of venue for the Peptide T trial in San Francisco. And no surprise, they're not pressing charges.
DAVID WAYNE: Then what the fuck am I doin' here?
DAVID WAYNE: They're trying to break you, I don't know. Let's get out of here.
RON: ( to himself ) They'll never break me.
JUDGE: The constitution, specifically the ninth amendment, does not state that you have the right to be mentally healthy or physically healthy. It does state that you have a right to chose your own medical care but that is interpreted as medical care that is approved by the Food and Drug Administration.
JUDGE: Regarding the FDA, the court is highly disturbed by its bullying tactics and direct interference with a drug whose own agency has found to be non-toxic. The FDA was formed to protect people, not prevent them from getting help.
JUDGE: The law does not seem to make much common sense. If a person has been found to be terminally ill they ought to be able to take just about any drug they feel will help. but that is not the law. Mr. Woodroof, there is not a person in this courtroom who is not moved to compassion by your plight, what is lacking here is the legal authority to intervene. I'm sorry. This case is hereby dismissed. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 93
RON: Jesus Mother Mary Fucking Christ!
