NIGHT: A group of French farmers is collected around a radio, listening wide-eyed to the keyed-up voice which is telling them, in French, of a strange object that has been seen in the sky. They exchange uneasy glances. One old man crosses SPLIT SCREEN SHOT RIGHT SECTION OF SCREEN SHOWS INT. AMERICAN RADIO STATION - A breathless American radio reporter is speaking into his mike, but we can't hear what he's saying. On the wall behind him is a clock which reads 3:32.
DAY: A breathless American radio reporter is speaking into his mike, but we can't hear what he's saying. On the wall behind him is a clock which reads 3:32.
NIGHT: A clock shows the time to be 8:32. The British announcer tries to maintain his traditional BBC calm, but finds it almost impossible to control his excitement.
BRITISH ANNOUNCER: Reports are coming in from all over the Empire from all over the world. The Government have not yet issued a statement, but there seems to be no question that there actually is a large, unidentified object circling the earth at incredible speed.
AMERICAN ANNOUNCER: ( staccato with excitement ) We still don't know what it is or where it's from –- but we do know there's something there. It's been tracked around the world by radar traveling at a rate of four thousand miles an hour.
MED. SHOT: Including several small groups of people moving toward the Smithsonian. Their attention is attracted as the hum off scene becomes a roar. The sound is unearthly in its intensity and almost unbearable in its swiftly increasing volume. The people stop in their tracks and look up in the sky in terror.
CLOSE SHOT: A man, following the progress of a huge object in the sky with his eyes. He is held terror-stricken.
CLOSE SHOT: Of a woman, thoroughly shaken, held immobile by what she sees and hears.
LONG SHOT: People scatter madly in all directions as the huge spaceship comes in for a landing on a smooth, grassy area. The tremendous roar of its motors is suddenly cut off and the great ship settles gently to a perfect landing.
MED. SHOT: A middle-aged man runs up to a group of several people, pointing wildly toward the ship and yelling irrationally:
MAN: They're here! They're here!
MONTAGE: A series of short DISSOLVES showing: 1. A man dashing up to a crowded Washington street corner shouting wildly and gesticulating in the direction from which he came. 2. Policemen piling into squad cars, which roar out of their 3. Soldiers rushing out of a barracks at Fort Myer, with rifles and side arms, to form up on their company street. 4. Newspaper presses rolling at high speed. 5. Newscasters chattering excitedly into their microphones. 6. A large telephone switchboard with the girls in a frenzy of activity as they try to handle the calls pouring in.
BRIGADIER GENERAL: ( into phone ) Get me the Chief of Staff.
GOVERNMENTAL OFFICIAL: I want to speak to the President. I'm sorry you'll have to interrupt
PEARSON: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, this is Drew Pearson. We bring you this special radio-television broadcast to give you the latest information on the landing of the "space ship" in Washington.
PEARSON: Government and Defense Department officials are concerned by reports of panic in several large Eastern cities. I am authorized to assure you that so far there is no reasonable cause for alarm. The rumors of invading armies and mass destruction are based on hysteria and are absolutely false. I repeat these rumors are absolutely false!
ANOTHER ANGLE: The ship, designed for travel outside the earth's atmosphere, landed in Washington today at 3:47 p.m., Eastern Standard Time. We still don't know where it came from, but I can reveal that military leaders are considering two possibilities; that it came from some unfriendly power here on earth or that it actually arrived from another planet.
PEARSON: The ship, designed for travel outside the earth's atmosphere, landed in Washington today at 3:47 p.m., Eastern Standard Time. We still don't know where it came from, but I can reveal that military leaders are considering two possibilities; that it came from some unfriendly power here on earth or that it actually arrived from another planet.
PEARSON'S VOICE: ( over scene ) The ship is resting exactly where it landed two hours ago, and there has been no sign of life from inside it.
PEARSON'S VOICE: ( over scene ) Troops have been rushed from Fort Myer and they have formed a cordon around the ship.
MED. SHOT: showing two machine guns, two Sherman tanks and two 75MM guns. The gun crews are posted for action and all weapons are trained on the space ship.
PEARSON'S VOICE: ( over scene ) They are supported by machine guns, tanks and artillery.
PEARSON'S VOICE: ( over scene ) Behind police lines, there is a large crowd of curiosity seekers.
PEARSON'S VOICE: ( over scene ) As you can see for yourself, the Army has taken every precaution to meet whatever the situation may require. Every eye every weapon is trained on the ship. It's been this way for two hours and the tension
PEARSON: Just a minute, ladies and gentlemen! I think I see something moving!
REVERSE ANGLE: on the soldiers, their eyes glued to this first sign of activity from the ship. They shift uneasily, gripping their rifles more firmly.
KLAATU: We have come to visit you in peace and with good will.
MED. SHOT: shooting from the side, showing Klaatu advancing slowly toward the line of soldiers. He holds out the mysterious object in front of him in a gesture that is actually one of offering but could be misinterpreted as menacing. There is a growing, uneasy rumble of muttering among the soldiers as Klaatu advances. They are clearly frightened of what he may do.
MED. SHOT: Klaatu starts toward the platoon leader, raising the object he holds toward the man, trying to make clear his intentions. Misinterpreting this as a menacing gesture, the platoon leader raises his carbine to his shoulder.
MED. SHOT: as Klaatu falls to the ground wounded. The object he was holding has dropped from his hand and smashed. The soldiers start to gather around Klaatu excitedly when suddenly there appears in the entrance to the space ship a huge robot. There is a gasp of amazement from the crowd and the solders draw back at sight of him. The robot is ten feet tall, is made in the almost-perfect image of a man. He is to be played by an actor and his flesh appears to be made of a greenish metal. His eyes flash as though lighted internally. His perfectly- fashioned, muscular body is covered only with a loincloth. This is GORT. There are cries of amazement as Gort walks slowly ponderously, down the ramp to the ground. As he does so, the ramp closes behind him. Gort's face is, and always remains, utterly expressionless. He stops to look at Klaatu, lying on the ground. Then he looks around at the soldiers, the tanks and guns. All the guns have been traversing to follow him.
KLAATU: Gort! Deglet ovrosco!
KLAATU: It was a gift. For your President. With this he could have studied life on other planets.
COLONEL: ( to the lieutenants ) Is he all right?
COLONEL: Send for an ambulance. Get him to Walter Reed Hospital right away.
CAPTAIN: Yes, sir.
GENERAL: ( to Major ) How is he?
MAJOR WHITE: He's all right, General. Blood pressure's a little high, but it could be aggravation.
GENERAL: ( wryly ) Can't blame him. I always get mad when somebody shoots me.
MAJOR WHITE: He still wants to see the President.
COLONEL: ( to General ) We informed the White House over an hour ago.
GENERAL: ( to Major ) Didn't drop any hints about where he's from, did he?
MAJOR WHITE: No, sir, he didn't. Excuse me. What about the reporters, Colonel? They're swarming all over the lobby.
CAPTAIN: Excuse me. What about the reporters, Colonel? They're swarming all over the lobby.
GENERAL: ( quietly ) Tell them there won't be any statement Yes, sir. ( glancing down the corridor ) Mr. Harley's here from the White
CAPTAIN: Yes, sir. Mr. Harley's here from the White
HARLEY: ( indicating Klaatu's room ) Right in there, Mr. Harley.
GENERAL: ( indicating Klaatu's room ) Right in there, Mr. Harley.
HARLEY: My name is Harley Secretary to the President I've been told that you speak our language that your name is Mr. Just Klaatu.
KLAATU: ( coolly ) Just Klaatu.
HARLEY: The President asked me to convey his deepest apologies for what has happened. We all feel
KLAATU: ( evenly ) Sit down, Mr. Harley.
HARLEY: I'm sure I don't have to point out that your arrival was something of a Had you been traveling long?
KLAATU: About five months your months.
HARLEY: You must have come a long way.
KLAATU: About 250 million of your miles.
HARLEY: Naturally we're very curious to know where it is you come from.
KLAATU: ( easily; he's a diplomat, too ) From another planet. Let's just say that we're neighbors. It's rather difficult for us to think of another planet as a neighbor.
HARLEY: It's rather difficult for us to think of another planet as a neighbor.
KLAATU: I'm afraid, in the present situation you'll have to learn to think that The present situation?
HARLEY: ( eyebrows raised ) The present situation?
KLAATU: I mean the reasons for my coming We're very curious about that, too. Would you care to talk about it?
HARLEY: ( his eagerness apparent ) We're very curious about that, too. Would you care to talk about it?
KLAATU: I'd be glad to. Not now, of course with you alone.
HARLEY: Perhaps you'd rather discuss it personally with the President
KLAATU: ( somewhat sharply ) This is not a personal matter, Mr. Harley. It concerns all the people on your planet.
HARLEY: ( Startled by the scope of this statement ) I I'm not sure I understand
KLAATU: I want to meet with representatives from all the nations of the Earth.
HARLEY: ( shocked and perturbed by this notion ) I'm afraid that would be a little awkward. It's it's completely without precedent. And there are practical considerations the time involved the enormous distances.
KLAATU: ( coolly ) I traveled 250 million miles. What about your United Nations?
HARLEY: ( Surprised and a little puzzled ) You know about the United Nations?
KLAATU: We've been monitoring your radio broadcasts for a good many years. That's how we learned your languages. Lately, we've been getting your television also.
HARLEY: ( wryly ) You must have a rather strange impression of us.
KLAATU: ( smiling ) The first two years of television we were convinced that all you did was
HARLEY: I'm sure you recognize from our broad- casts the evil forces that have produced the tension in our world. Surely you would agree
KLAATU: ( evenly ) I am not concerned, Mr. Harley, with the internal affairs of your planet. I consider that to be your business not mine.
HARLEY: I was only hoping to make you My mission here is not to solve your petty squabbles. It concerns the existence of every last creature who lives on Earth.
KLAATU: ( sternly, impressively ) My mission here is not to solve your petty squabbles. It concerns the existence of every last creature who lives on Earth.
HARLEY: ( uncomfortably ) Perhaps if you could explain a little
KLAATU: I intend to explain. To all the nations simultaneously. How do we proceed, Mr. Harley? We could call a special meeting of the General Assembly. But of course the UN doesn't represent all of the Then why not a meeting of all the Chiefs of State?
HARLEY: ( after a long thoughtful moment ) We could call a special meeting of the General Assembly. But of course the UN doesn't represent all of the Then why not a meeting of all the Chiefs of State?
KLAATU: Then why not a meeting of all the Chiefs of State?
HARLEY: ( helplessly, but patiently ) Believe me, you don't understand. They wouldn't sit down at the same
KLAATU: I don't want to resort to threats, Mr. Harley. I simply tell you bluntly that the future of your planet is at stake. I suggest you transmit that message to the nations of the Earth.
HARLEY: I will make that recommendation to the President. I must tell you in all honesty that I'm extremely dubious about the Apparently I'm not as cynical about Earth's people as you are.
KLAATU: ( with a half-smile ) Apparently I'm not as cynical about Earth's people as you are.
HARLEY: I've been dealing in Earth's politics a good deal longer than you have. Goodnight, sir.
GENERAL: Getting any place, Sergeant?
SERGEANT: ( raising his helmet ) No, sir. ( shaking his head in annoyance ) Beats me, General. I saw that ramp come out of the side of the ship right here. Now I can't even find a
GENERAL: What's the report, Carlson?
CARLSON: ( discouraged ) We've tried everything from a blowtorch to a diamond drill.
GENERAL: ( nodding toward Gort ) What about him?
CARLSON: He's made out of the same stuff.
GENERAL: Has he moved?
SERGEANT: No sir. Not an inch
CARLSON: This is the toughest material I ever saw, General. For hardness and strength, it's out of this world.
GENERAL: ( with a wry half-smile ) I can tell you officially -– that's where it came from.
MAJOR: The skeletal structure is completely Same for the major organs -– heart, liver, spleen, kidneys.
CAPTAIN: And the lungs are the same as ours. Must mean a similar atmosphere similar pressure. How old do you think he is?
MAJOR: Oh, I'd say forty-five.
CAPTAIN: ( smiling ) He told me this morning when I examined him. He's seventy-eight.
MAJOR: I don't believe it.
CAPTAIN: Their life expectancy is a hundred and thirty.
MAJOR: How does he explain that?
CAPTAIN: He says their medicine is that much more advanced. He was very nice about it. But he made me feel like a third-class witch
MAJOR WHITE: I took a bullet out of that man's arm yesterday.
FIRST MAJOR: What about it?
MAJOR WHITE: ( utterly bewildered ) I just examined the wound and it's all healed.
FIRST MAJOR: What does he say about it?
MAJOR WHITE: Said he put some salve on it some stuff he had with him.
CAPTAIN: What are you going to do with it?
MAJOR WHITE: Take it downstairs and have it Then I don't know whether I'll just get drunk or give up the practice of
FIRST MAJOR: Afternoon, Mr. Harley.
HARLEY: Afternoon, gentlemen.
HARLEY: Good afternoon. I'm glad to see you up and around.
KLAATU: Thank you. Have you any news?
HARLEY: Not very good news, I'm afraid. The President accepted your suggestion and cabled the invitations for a meeting last night. Let me read you some of the replies. "The Premier wishes to inform the Government of the United States that it will be impossible for him to attend the meeting suggested by the President unless the meeting is held in Moscow." "The suggestion of the President regarding the possibility of a meeting in Moscow would be unacceptable to Her Majesty's Government at the present time. Representation could be sent only if the meeting were held in Washington." Well there you have it.
HARLEY: I tried to make you understand. The suspicions the jealousies the Surely you realize that my government has done everything in its power
KLAATU: It's not your government I'm thinking about. It's your world.
HARLEY: Now that you understand the situation more clearly, perhaps you'd like to discuss the matter with the President
KLAATU: ( sternly ) I will not speak to any one nation or group of nations. ( sharply, bitterly ) I don't intend to add my contribution to your childish jealousies and Our problems are very complex, Mr. Klaatu. You mustn't judge us too I can judge only by what I see.
HARLEY: Our problems are very complex, Mr. Klaatu. You mustn't judge us too I can judge only by what I see.
KLAATU: I can judge only by what I see.
HARLEY: Your impatience is quite I am impatient with stupidity. My people have learned to live without I'm afraid my people haven't. I'm very sorry I wish it were
KLAATU: ( sharply ) I am impatient with stupidity. My people have learned to live without ( ruefully ) I'm afraid my people haven't. ( with real sincerity ) I'm very sorry I wish it were
HARLEY: ( ruefully ) I'm afraid my people haven't. ( with real sincerity ) I'm very sorry I wish it were
KLAATU: Before making any decisions, I think I should get out among your people become familiar with the basis for these strange, unreasoning attitudes.
HARLEY: Under the circumstances I'm afraid that will be impossible.
HARLEY: I must ask that you don't attempt to leave the hospital. Our military people have insisted on this. I'm sure you'll understand.
ARMY HOSPITAL!: 5. Radio announcers chattering excitedly into their 6. A series of close-ups of people listening to the radio. Their faces reveal their awestruck terror. 7. A terrified mother drags her two children in from the street through the front door, slams the door and bolts it.
RADIO VOICES: ( over scene ) authorities at Walter Reed Hospital refused to comment on how he managed to escape, or what measures might be taken to apprehend him.
CLOSE SHOT: from Klaatu's viewpoint, of a sign on one of the houses, reading: ROOM FOR RENT
TELEVISION COMMENTATOR: while the President made no effort to minimize the crisis, he urged people all over the country to remain calm. He said the entire facilities of FBI and other federal agencies are being bought to bear. He pointed out, however, that this is no ordinary man hunt. He warned we may be up against powers that are beyond our
FULL SHOT: The landlady, a stern-faced woman of middle age, named MRS. CROCKETT, rises nervously and crosses to the television set.
MRS. CROCKETT: ( tensely ) I can't stand any more of this. It's enough to drive a person crazy.
TWO SHOT: BOBBY BENSON, a bright-eyed, eleven-year-old, is seated beside his mother, HELEN BENSON, an attractive girl of thirty. Disappointed that the set has been turned off, Bobby's roving eye has fallen on something in the doorway to the hall. Wide-eyed, he nudges his mother and points.
BOBBY: Hey, Mom who's that?
FULL SHOT: including the doorway to the hall. Silhouetted motionless against the light from the hall is the figure of a man. All eyes follow Hobby's pointed finger, and there is a stifled gasp as they are startled out of their preoccupation. One of the men turns on the lights and Klaatu is revealed standing calmly in the doorway. There is a shocked silence for a moment, then Mrs. Crockett speaks.
MRS. CROCKETT: ( apologizing nervously for the tension in the room ) I I'm sorry. What is it you want?
KLAATU: My name is Carpenter. I'm looking for a room. Are you an FBI man?
BOBBY: Are you an FBI man?
KLAATU: No I'm afraid not.
BOBBY: Bet he is, Mom. Bet he's out looking for that space man.
HELEN: ( with an apologetic smile at Klaatu ) I think we've all been hearing too much about "space men."
MRS. CROCKETT: ( starting the introductions with Helen ) This is Mrs. Benson, Mr. Carpenter. ( with a smile that would split a brick ) And little Bobby. ( indicating a middle- aged couple and a younger but more wizened man ) Mr. and Mrs. Barley and Mr. Krull. I'm Mrs. Crockett.
MRS. CROCKETT: ( pleased to the point of challenge ) Well this is our little family. ( then, getting down to business ) I have a very nice room on the second
BOBBY: Can I help you look for the space man? Can I? I know what he looks like! He's got a square head and, three great big eyes!
HELEN: ( good-naturedly, calming him down ) That's enough, Bobby. I think it's time you went to bed.
MRS. CROCKETT: ( to Bobby, with a prop smile ) We mustn't annoy Mr. Carpenter or he won't want to stay here. She goes on into the hall, followed by Klaatu, who has exchanged a polite smile with Helen.
MRS. CROCKETT: He's really a dear little boy and quiet as a mouse. You're a long way from home, aren't you, Mr. Carpenter?
KLAATU: How did you know?
MRS. CROCKETT: ( pleased with her cleverness ) Oh, I can tell a New England accent a mile away.
GROUP SHOT: AS THE RADIO VOICE CONTINUES: During the above, Mrs. Barley has turned to her husband in sharp annoyance.
MRS. BARLEY: George, I wish you'd turn that radio off. I'm trying to concentrate.
MR. BARLEY: ( snorting, he tosses his paper down ) Why doesn't the Government do something that's what I want to ( mildly ) What can they do? They're only people Just like us.
MR. KRULL: ( mildly ) What can they do? They're only people Just like us.
MR. BARLEY: People my foot! They're Democrats!
MR. KRULL: It's enough to give you the shakes. He's got that robot standing there ten-foot tall just waiting for orders to destroy us.
HELEN: ( thoughtfully ) This space man or whatever he is. We automatically assume he's a menace. Maybe he isn't at all.
MR. BARLEY: ( glaring at her for this silly notion ) Then what's he hiding for? Why doesn't he come out in the open?
MR. KRULL: ( indicating the radio ) Like the fella says: "What's he up Maybe he's afraid.
HELEN: Maybe he's afraid.
MRS. BARLEY: ( with a derisive snort ) He's afraid!
HELEN: After all, he was shot the moment he landed here. I was just wondering what I would Perhaps before deciding on a course of action, you'd want to know more about the people here to orient yourself in a strange environment.
KLAATU: ( to Helen, helpfully ) Perhaps before deciding on a course of action, you'd want to know more about the people here to orient yourself in a strange environment.
MRS. BARLEY: ( sharply ) There's nothing strange about Washington, Mr. Carpenter.
KLAATU: ( quietly, tongue in cheek ) A person from another planet might disagree with you.
MRS. BARLEY: If you want my opinion, he came from right here on Earth. And you know where I mean.
MR. KRULL: They wouldn't come in a space ship. They'd come in airplanes.
MRS. BARLEY: ( as though with superior knowledge ) I wouldn't be so sure about that.
MR. BARLEY: ( delivering the final word ) Stands to reason that fella wants some thing or he wouldn't be here. ( facing Klaatu ) That make sense, Carpenter?
KLAATU: I must admit I'm a little confused.
MRS. CROCKETT: Mrs. Benson Mr. Stevens is here to see you.
HELEN: Oh thank you.
MRS. BARLEY: Finish your coffee, George. I told the Carsons we'd be there at eleven.
HELEN: ( smiling warmly ) Good morning.
TOM: We're all set. I picked up some sandwiches and put gas in the car. And the radio's still busted, so me can forget about the space man for There's only one thing I haven't been able to arrange for anyone to stay with Bobby. I don't suppose we could take him with us?
HELEN: ( a little disturbed ) There's only one thing I haven't been able to arrange for anyone to stay with Bobby. ( tentatively ) I don't suppose we could take him with us?
TOM: ( understandably unenthusiastically ) Well, we could
HELEN: There's always somebody here, but today of course they've all got plans.
KLAATU'S VOICE: I haven't any plans.
THREE SHOT: including Klaatu, who has wandered in from the dining room, unnoticed by Tom and Helen. Klaatu continues, with an air of wanting to be helpful without wanting to interfere.
KLAATU: I'd be glad to spend the day with him if you'd let me.
TOM: ( impulsively ) Say, that'll be great! Wouldn't it, ( hesitating, a little confused, by the offer ) It's awfully nice of you to suggest ( remembering the two men haven't met ) I'm sorry Mr. Carpenter this is Tom Stevens.
HELEN: ( hesitating, a little confused, by the offer ) It's awfully nice of you to suggest ( remembering the two men haven't met ) I'm sorry Mr. Carpenter this is Tom Stevens.
KLAATU: Bobby and I had a fine time yesterday afternoon. We talked and listened to the radio. I thought today he might show me around the city.
KLAATU: ( easily ) Suppose I ask Bobby how he feels about it.
KLAATU: ( visibly impressed ) Those are great words. ( with an air of discovery ) He must have been a great man.
KLAATU: That's the kind of man I'd like to talk to.
KLAATU: Bobby who's the greatest man in America today?
BOBBY: ( puzzling it over ) Gee I don't know. The space man, I guess.
KLAATU: ( secretly amused ) I was speaking of earth men. I meant the greatest philosopher the greatest thinker.
B0BBY: You mean the smartest man in the whole world?
KLAATU: Yes that would do nicely.
BOBBY: ( after a moments thought ) Well Professor Barnhardt, I guess. He's the greatest scientist in the ( he pauses thoughtfully, speaks slowly, as he recalls the newspaper story he read ) He lives here in Washington, doesn't Sure. Right near where my mother Where is that?
KLAATU: ( he pauses thoughtfully, speaks slowly, as he recalls the newspaper story he read ) He lives here in Washington, doesn't Sure. Right near where my mother Where is that?
BOBBY: Sure. Right near where my mother Where is that?
KLAATU: Where is that?
BOBBY: Department of Commerce. She's a They have a man they call the Secretary, but he isn't at all. My mother's a real secretary. Mr. Carpenter now can we go see the space ship?
BOBBY: Boy, I'll bet he's strong. I bet he could knock down a whole building.
KLAATU: ( with a quizzical smile ) I shouldn't be at all surprised.
BOBBY: ( excitedly, indicating the ship ) Gee, I'd like to get inside and see how it works. What do you think makes it go?
KLAATU: ( quietly, after a glance around ) Well atomic power, I would imagine.
BOBBY: ( looking at Klaatu incredulously ) I thought that was only for bombs.
KLAATU: No. It's for a lot of other things, You think it can go faster than an F-
BOBBY: You think it can go faster than an F-
KLAATU: Yes I think so.
BOBBY: About a thousand miles an hour?
KLAATU: Maybe four thousand miles an hour. And outside the Earth's atmosphere a good deal faster.
BOBBY: ( excitedly ) Gee! How could they make a landing?
KLAATU: Well there are several ways to reduce landing speed. You see, the
MAN: ( grinning ) Keep goin', Mister. He was fallin' for it.
BOBBY: You think they'll ever find him?
KLAATU: ( alter a moment's pause ) I don't know, Bobby. I'm inclined to doubt it.
BOBBY: ( as they continue walking ) Mr. Carpenter what does velocity ( preoccupied ) Velocity is the time rate of change of position.
KLAATU: ( preoccupied ) Velocity is the time rate of change of position.
BOBBY: I'll bet that's the way Professor Barnhardt talks. Bobby I have an idea. Let's go see Professor Barnhardt and find out how he talks.
KLAATU: Bobby I have an idea. Let's go see Professor Barnhardt and find out how he talks.
BOBBY: ( with a half-smile of accusation ) You're just kidding, aren't you?
KLAATU: Wouldn't you like to meet him?
BOBBY: Well, sure I would, but Aw, I'll bet you'd be scared.
KLAATU: ( with a private smile ) We can scare him more than he can scare us.
BOBBY: I like you, Mr. Carpenter. You're a real screwball.
BOBBY: ( disappointed at the thought ) Gee maybe he isn't home.
BOBBY: Betcha this is where he works
BOBBY: ( indicating the equations ) What does that mean?
KLAATU: It's a problem in celestial mechanics.
BOBBY: Bet he's the only one in the world knows the answer.
KLAATU: ( he shakes his head, smiling ) He doesn't know the answer. And he'll never get it that way.
BOBBY: We probably couldn't get to see him even if he was home.
BOBBY: ( in complete surprise ) Hey where you going?
KLAATU: If he's that difficult to see, perhaps we ought to leave a calling card.
HILDA'S VOICE: What are you doing in here?
FULL SHOT: as Klaatu and Bobby turn in surprise. Standing in the open French doors is Hilda, eyeing them with stern suspicion.
HILDA: ( outraged by Klaatu's desecration of the sacred blackboard ) How dare you write on that blackboard! ( Klaatu eyes her mildly ) Do you realize the Professor has been working on that problem for ( pleasantly ) He'll catch on to it in no time now.
KLAATU: ( pleasantly ) He'll catch on to it in no time now.
HILDA: ( controlling herself with an effort ) How did you get in here? And what do you want?
KLAATU: We came to see Professor Barnhardt.
HILDA: Well, he's not here. And he won't be back till this evening. I think you'd better leave now. Unruffled, Klaatu turns to the desk and scribbles something on a scratch pad. He tears off the piece of paper and hands it to Hilda.
KLAATU: You might keep this. I think the professor will want to get in touch with me.
KLAATU: ( pointing to the blackboard ) I wouldn't erase that. The Professor needs it very badly.
HILDA: no, Sergeant, there was no classified material around, but I have instructions to report anything unusual to the police. Yes I'm Professor Barnhardt's secretary. The man's name is Carpenter and he lives at 1615 St. Street, N.W. Yes, that's right
BOBBY: That's my father. He was killed at a place called Anzio.
KLAATU: ( Reflectively ) Did all these people die in wars?
BOBBY: ( somewhat surprised ) Sure. Didn't you ever hear of Arlington Cemetery?
KLAATU: No I'm afraid not.
BOBBY: ( very serious ) Mr. Carpenter" you don't seem to know about anything.
KLAATU: ( Amused ) I'll tell you, Bobby I've been away for a long time. Very far away.
BOBBY: Is it different where you've been? Don't they have places like this?
KLAATU: ( slowly ) They have cemeteries. But not like this one. You see, they don't have any wars.
BOBBY: Gee that's a good idea.
KLAATU: What would you like to do this
BOBBY: Go to the movies.
KLAATU: All right.
BOBBY: ( he didn't dare hope for this ) No foolin'? Will you?
KLAATU: ( then he hesitates ) Tell me, Bobby do you have to have money to go there?
BOBBY: ( eagerly ) I've got some money. My mother gave me two dollars.
KLAATU: No I want to take you to the Do you think they'd accept these?
BOBBY: Gee those look like diamonds!
KLAATU: Some places that's what people use for money. They're easy to carry and they don't wear out.
BOBBY: ( staring at them fascinated ) Bet they're worth about a million Would you give me your two dollars for a couple of them?
KLAATU: Would you give me your two dollars for a couple of them?
BOBBY: ( with a nervous, unsure smile ) Well, sure, but
BOBBY: ( slowly )
BOBBY: Let's not say anything to my mother about this, Mr. Carpenter.
KLAATU: ( mildly curious ) Why not, Bobby?
BOBBY: ( gravely ) She doesn't like me to steal from
DETECTIVE: Mr. Carpenter come home yet?
BOBBY: ( studying the man curiously ) Yeah he's right inside.
DETECTIVE: Tell him I'd like to see him.
BOBBY: ( calling out ) Mr. Carpenter! ( to the Detective ) Come on in.
DETECTIVE: Your name Carpenter?
KLAATU: ( puzzled that anyone should know him ) ( then recalling, with a smile of satisfaction ) Oh I suppose Professor Barnhardt's looking far me.
DETECTIVE: ( dryly, with grim emphasis ) I been looking for you all afternoon.
HELEN: ( fondly ) It was a wonderful day.
TOM: You still haven't answered my You know how I feel, Tom. I just want to think it over.
HELEN: ( warmly sincere ) You know how I feel, Tom. I just want to think it over.
TOM: The boss is leaving for Chicago tomorrow. If I could tell him I was getting married with two dependents
HELEN: ( smiling ) You're a good salesman but I've got to think about it.
TOM: A good insurance salesman wouldn't give you time to think.
HELEN: MED. SHOT as Helen turns and hurries across the sidewalk to the house. In the entrance she turns and waves to Tom. He waves back and drives off slowly. Helen lets herself in with her key.
MED. SHOT: as Helen turns and hurries across the sidewalk to the house. In the entrance she turns and waves to Tom. He waves back and drives off slowly. Helen lets herself in with her key.
BOBBY: Hi Mom!
HELEN: Hello, darling. Good evening, Mr. Carpenter.
KLAATU: Mrs. Benson this is Mr. Brady.
BOBBY: ( Impressively ) Mr. Brady's a cop. ( to Bobby ) Did you have a nice day, dear?
HELEN: ( to Bobby ) Did you have a nice day, dear?
BOBBY: ( enthusiastically ) Boy, we had a swell time. Didn't we, Mr. Carpenter?
KLAATU: We certainly did.
BOBBY: We went to the movies and we had ice cream cones and we went to see Daddy
HELEN: ( moved and grateful, she's uneasy and concerned as she turns to Klaatu ) I don't know how to thank you.
KLAATU: I enjoyed every minute of it.
DETECTIVE: ( with quiet insistence ) We better get goin', Mr. Carpenter. Aw, gee we didn't finish our story.
BOBBY: Aw, gee we didn't finish our story.
KLAATU: We'll finish it tomorrow. Goodnight,
BOBBY: ( reluctantly )
HELEN: Come on, Bobby. Time to go to bed.
BOBBY: ( he followers her, then hesitates ) Mom why does Mr. Carpenter have to go down to the police station?
HELEN: I I don't know, dear. Perhaps there's some mistake.
BOBBY: We sure had fun today. We saw the space ship and we went to see Professor Barnhardt and
HELEN: ( flashing him a puzzled, incredulous look ) Professor Barnhardt.
BOBBY: ( almost ignoring the interruption ) Yeah, sure. Mom, do I have to go to school tomorrow?
HELEN: Of course, dear.
BOBBY: Aw, gee, Mom I had plans to play with Mr. Carpenter.
FIRST COP: ( to the cop beside him ) B.M. Alberts no prior arrests.
SECOND COP: ( to the vagrant ) No identification? ( the man shakes his head dully ) Send him over to G-2.
BUSINESSMAN: My wife just arrived with my
THIRD COP: That'll be all, Mr. Baxter. Sorry to bother you. Next.
FOURTH COP: Cappo, John C? Two priors one for petty theft one for shoplifting.
FIFTH COP: ( waving the man away ) Okay, Jonny you can go.
MAN: ( with a nervous grin ) Sometimes a record comes in handy. ( and he moves off )
LIEUTENANT: The Professor's secretary says she found you in Barnhardt's room, making marks on his blackboard.
KLAATU: I was only trying to be helpful. He was having difficulty with a problem.
LIEUTENANT: ( sardonically ) Oh, I see. He was having trouble and you were helping him out.
KLAATU: ( pleasantly ) That's right.
LIEUTENANT: ( quietly sharp and accusing ) I suppose you know that Barnhardt does a lot of secret work for the In this case the secret wouldn't be worth much. He doesn't know the answer ( growing impatient ) But I suppose you know the answer.
KLAATU: In this case the secret wouldn't be worth much. He doesn't know the answer But I suppose you know the answer.
LIEUTENANT: ( growing impatient ) But I suppose you know the answer.
KLAATU: ( with a deprecating shrug ) It's really quite simple. The three- body problem, you know.
LIEUTENANT: Your name's Carpenter that right? Any identification, Mr. Carpenter? Driver's license social security No I'm afraid not.
KLAATU: No I'm afraid not.
LIEUTENANT: Well, how do I know who you are?
KLAATU: ( secretly amused ) You don't.
COP: Excuse me, Lieutenant The Doc says this man needs treatment right away.
MED. SHOT: A man about forty-five, bloodied and badly beaten, is being supported and half-carried by two policemen. A police doctor is guiding them to a doorway, near which is a sign INFIRMARY. The man is almost unconscious, incapable even of holding up his head.
LIEUTENANT: What's the story?
COP: Some fella caught him lookin' in a window and figured he was the space man. The whole neighborhood went crazy and they ganged up on him. Would have killed him if we hadn't come along. Turns out he was just a prowler. Okay book him and get him fixed Looks like everybody's goin' nuts.
LIEUTENANT: Okay book him and get him fixed Looks like everybody's goin' nuts.
KLAATU: ( appalled by what he has seen and heard ) They would have killed this man?
LIEUTENANT: ( gruffly ) People get hysterical enough, they do anything. ( impatiently ) Look, Mr. Carpenter if you can't identify yourself, I got to send you over to the Army.
KLAATU: ( pretending impatience, but actually growing concerned ) How long will that take?
LIEUTENANT: They can tell right away. They've got a couple of doctors who saw this man in the hospital. Take him over to G2.
KLAATU: It's very important, Lieutenant, that I see Professor Barnhardt.
DETECTIVE: Come on, Mr. Carpenter May I suggest that you call the Get going, will you, Brady before I get mad!
KLAATU: May I suggest that you call the Get going, will you, Brady before I get mad!
LIEUTENANT: ( all patience gone ) Get going, will you, Brady before I get mad!
MED. SHOT: as the Detective leads Klaatu across the sidewalk to the curb, where a police car is standing. Parked just behind it is an Army staff car.
LIEUTENANT: ( to the Detective ) Wait a minute, Brady ( indicating orders in his hand ) The Captain here's got orders from General Cutler to take this man over to Professor Barnhardt.
M.P. CAPTAIN: ( to Klaatu firmly but respectfully ) Will you come with me, Sir?
MED. SHOT: as Klaatu gets out of the police car and the Captain escorts him toward the staff car. Passing the Lieutenant, Klaatu speaks with a polite smile, a smile that might be one of mild triumph.
KLAATU: Sorry to trouble you, Lieutenant.
M.P. CAPTAIN: This is the man you wanted to see, Thank you, Captain.
BARNHARDT: ( studying Klaatu curiously ) Thank you, Captain.
M.P. CAPTAIN: I'll wait outside.
BARNHARDT: You wrote this?
KLAATU: ( nodding easily ) It was a clumsy way to introduce myself but I understand you're a difficult man to see. ( glancing at the reproachfully ) I thought you'd have the solution by this time.
BARNHARDT: Not yet. That's why I wanted to see All you have to do now is substitute this expression at this point.
KLAATU: All you have to do now is substitute this expression at this point.
BARNHARDT: ( slowly, thoughtfully ) Yes that will reproduce the first- order terms. But what about the effect of the other terms?
KLAATU: Almost negligible. With variation of parameters, this is the answer.
BARNHARDT: How can you be so sure? Have you tested this theory?
KLAATU: ( with a slight smile ) I find it works well enough to get me from one planet to another. ( Barnhardt stares at him blankly ) I understand you've called a meeting to study our space ship.
BARNHARDT: As though unsure of what he's heard ) Yes yes, I have.
KLAATU: My name is Klaatu. I spent two days at your Walter Reed Hospital. Room 309. My doctor's name was Major White and I had a very attractive nurse called Ruth, who's getting married next Wednesday. If you are not interested or if you intend to turn me over to your Army we needn't waste any more
BARNHARDT: ( to the Captain, his voice a little unsteady ) You can go now, Captain. Please thank General Cutler and tell him tell him that I know this gentleman.
KLAATU: ( dryly ) You have faith, Professor Barnhardt
BARNHARDT: It isn't faith that makes good science, Mr. Klaatu. Its curiosity. Sit down, please. I have several thousand questions to ask you.
KLAATU: ( ignoring the invitation ) I would like to explain something of my mission here.
BARNHARDT: That was my first question.
KLAATU: ( with some bitterness ) It was my intention to discuss this officially with all the nations of the Earth but I was not allowed the Opportunity. I have come to realize since that your mutual fears and suspicions are merely the normal reactions of a primitive society. ( gathering his thoughts ) We know from scientific observation that you have discovered a rudimentary kind of atomic energy. We also know that you are experimenting with Yes that is true.
BARNHARDT: Yes that is true.
KLAATU: In the hands of a mature civilization, these would not be considered weapons of aggression. But in the hands of your people We've observed your aggressive tendencies, and we don't trust you with such power.
BARNHARDT: ( puzzled ) If you mean that you are afraid of ( with cool impressive emphasis ) We want to be sure you don't make let us say an unfortunate mistake. We know the potentiality of these developments and we are disturbed to find them in the hands of children. You see, we've had atomic energy for five thousand of your years. ( indicating the telephone ) We discarded instruments like this many centuries ago. ( he paces thoughtfully ) So long as you were limited to fighting among yourselves with your primitive tanks and planes we were unconcerned. But soon you will apply atomic energy to space ships and then you become a threat to the peace and security of other planets. That, of course, we cannot ( thoughtful and impressed ) These other planets do they have peace and security?
KLAATU: ( with cool impressive emphasis ) We want to be sure you don't make let us say an unfortunate mistake. We know the potentiality of these developments and we are disturbed to find them in the hands of children. You see, we've had atomic energy for five thousand of your years. ( indicating the telephone ) We discarded instruments like this many centuries ago. ( he paces thoughtfully ) So long as you were limited to fighting among yourselves with your primitive tanks and planes we were unconcerned. But soon you will apply atomic energy to space ships and then you become a threat to the peace and security of other planets. That, of course, we cannot ( thoughtful and impressed ) These other planets do they have peace and security?
BARNHARDT: ( thoughtful and impressed ) These other planets do they have peace and security?
KLAATU: We had our atomic wars thousands of years ago. After that we fought with bows and arrows. Then, slowly, we learned that fighting is no solution that aggression leads to chaos.
BARNHARDT: ( with deep conviction ) We scientists understand this. Even we primitive scientists. ( Straightforwardly ) What exactly is the nature of your mission, Mr. Klaatu?
KLAATU: I came here to warn you that, by threatening danger, your planet faces danger very grave danger. I am prepared, however, to offer a Would you care to be more specific?
BARNHARDT: Would you care to be more specific?
KLAATU: ( evenly ) What I have to say must be said to all concerned. ( with a suggestion of deference to Barnhardt ) It is too important to be entrusted to any individual.
BARNHARDT: I gather that your efforts on the official level were not entirely I come to you as a last resort and I confess that my patience is wearing thin. Must I take drastic action in order to get a hearing?
KLAATU: ( sternly, as this unpleasant episode is recalled ) I come to you as a last resort and I confess that my patience is wearing thin. ( with Jovian annoyance ) Must I take drastic action in order to get a hearing?
BARNHARDT: ( uneasily ) What what sort of action do you Violent action since that seems to be the only thing you people ( quietly ) Leveling the island of Manhattan, perhaps or dropping the Rock of Gibraltar into the sea.
KLAATU: Violent action since that seems to be the only thing you people Leveling the island of Manhattan, perhaps or dropping the Rock of Gibraltar into the sea.
BARNHARDT: Would you be willing to meet with the group of scientists I am calling together?. Perhaps you could explain your mission to them, and they in turn could present it to their various That's what I came to see you about.
KLAATU: ( quietly, evenly ) That's what I came to see you about.
BARNHARDT: It is not enough to have men of science. We scientists are too easily ignored or misunderstood. We must get important men from every field. Educators philosophers church leaders men of vision and imagination the finest minds in the world.
KLAATU: I leave that in your hands.
BARNHARDT: You'd have no objection to revealing yourself at this meeting?
KLAATU: No not at all.
BARNHARDT: What about your personal safety in the meantime? What about the Army and the police?
KLAATU: My name is Carpenter and I'm a very earthy character living in a respectable boarding house.
BARNHARDT: ( smiling, but a little concerned ) I'm afraid I can't offer you any real protection. I have no influence in cases of inter-planetary I'm sure I'll be quite safe until the meeting.
KLAATU: I'm sure I'll be quite safe until the meeting.
BARNHARDT: ( he suddenly pauses, thoughtfully ) One thing, Mr. Klaatu. Suppose this group should reject your proposals. What is the alternative?
KLAATU: ( with a sense of quiet, inescapable power ) I'm afraid you have no alternative. In such, a case the planet Earth would have to be ( he looks for the right word )
BARNHARDT: Such power exists?
KLAATU: I assure you such power exists. The people who came to the meeting must be made to realize this. They must understand what is at stake. You mentioned a demonstration of Would such, a demonstration be possible before the meeting?
BARNHARDT: The people who came to the meeting must be made to realize this. They must understand what is at stake. You mentioned a demonstration of Would such, a demonstration be possible before the meeting?
KLAATU: Would such, a demonstration be possible before the meeting?
BARNHARDT: Would such, a demonstration be possible before the meeting?
KLAATU: Yes of course.
BARNHARDT: Something that would dramatize for them and for their people the seriousness of the situation. Something that would affect the entire That can easily be arranged.
KLAATU: ( with a nod ) That can easily be arranged.
BARNHARDT: ( frightened by his easy assumption of infinite power ) I wouldn't want you to harm anybody or destroy anything.
KLAATU: ( easily ) Why don't you leave it to me? I'll think of something.
BARNHARDT: ( with a nervous half- smile ) Maybe a little demonstration.
KLAATU: ( thinking about it ) Something dramatic but not ( intellectually amused ) It's quite an interesting problem. ( Barnhardt nods vaguely ) Would day after tomorrow be all right? Say about noon?
MRS. CROCKETT: Going out, dear?
HELEN: Yes, I'm waiting for Tom to pick me Personally, I won't go out after dark these days. But then I'm not courting, am I?
MRS. CROCKETT: ( with a shudder ) Personally, I won't go out after dark these days. ( with an attempt at slyness ) But then I'm not courting, am I?
MRS. CROCKETT: ( thoroughly startled ) Oh Mr. Carpenter! Everyone seems so ( he shakes his hands to indicate nervousness )
KLAATU: Everyone seems so
HELEN: Jittery is the word.
KLAATU: ( with a contemplative smile ) Bobby's the only person I know who isn't Jittery.
HELEN: He has his homework to keep him He's a fine boy, Mrs. Benson.
KLAATU: ( fondly, sincerely ) He's a fine boy, Mrs. Benson.
HELEN: Naturally I think so.
KLAATU: Warm and friendly and intelligent You know he's the only real friend I've made since I've been here.
HELEN: ( hesitantly and with some difficulty ) Mr. Carpenter this is none of my business, but why did that detective come here last night?
KLAATU: ( with easy frankness ) Oh they just wanted to ask me a few questions. Bobby and I tried to see Professor Barnhardt in the afternoon, but he wasn't in. Apparently they thought I was looking for secrets of some kind.
HELEN: You ready?
TOM: You ready?
HELEN: I will be in just a minute.
TOM: ( a little annoyed that she hasn't her coat on, he consults his watch ) The picture starts at eight-fifty.
HELEN: ( in explanation ) I was talking to Mr. Carpenter.
TOM: ( lightly, but with real sarcasm underneath ) I hope Mr. Carpenter won't think I'm
KLAATU: Excuse me. I was just going up to my Goodnight, Mr. Carpenter.
HELEN: ( guiltily ) Goodnight, Mr. Carpenter.
KLAATU: Have a good time both of you. Why don't you wait in here while I get my things?
HELEN: Why don't you wait in here while I get my things?
HELEN: ( quietly ) Oh, Tom, that was awful.
TOM: ( momentary apologetic ) I'm sorry. I guess I'm just tired of hearing about Mr. Carpenter. ( Helen shushes him ) I don't like the way he's attached himself to you and Bobby. After all, what do you know about him? I'll go get my things.
HELEN: I'll go get my things.
KLAATU: ( about to leave ) All you have to remember is, first find the common denominator then Thanks, Mr. Carpenter.
BOBBY: Thanks, Mr. Carpenter.
KLAATU: ( to Helen, pleasantly ) I'll say goodnight again.
HELEN: Mr. Carpenter, I Goodnight, my dear.
KLAATU: ( with a warm smile of complete understanding and appreciation ) Goodnight, my dear.
HELEN: Go to bed, darling. You can finish that in the morning.
BOBBY: Helen watches as he starts to put away his work. She wants to tell him something, but finds it difficult to say.
HELEN: ( hesitantly, almost guiltily ) Bobby I think it would be better if we didn't see quite so much of Mr. Carpenter
BOBBY: ( shocked, and bewildered ) Gee, why, Mom? He's my best friend. And he's awful good in arithmetic. He even helps Professor Barnhardt.
HELEN: Did you and Mr. Carpenter really go to see Professor Barnhardt?
BOBBY: Sure we did! He wasn't there but we went to see him. And Mr. Carpenter showed him how to do his arithmetic.
BOBBY: ( shrewdly ) Mom is there something wrong with Mr. Carpenter?
HELEN: What do you mean, dear?
BOBBY: I mean on account of that policeman last night. You think he's a bank robber, maybe? Or a gangster?
HELEN: No, dear, of course not. He's a very nice man. I Just think he might prefer to be left alone. Now you get to bed and forget about it. 'Night, darling.
BOBBY: ( stopping her in the doorway, his imaginative suspicions mounting ) Hey Mom why would he want to be Bobby have you a flashlight?
KLAATU: Bobby have you a flashlight?
BOBBY: ( surprised by his appearance and his request ) Yeah sure. ( he goes to a drawer and gets a large hand flashlight ) It's a real Boy Scout flashlight. What do you want it for, Mr. ( evasively ) Why the light in my room went ( cutting off further questions ) Thank you, Bobby. Goodnight.
BOBBY: What do you want it for, Mr. Why the light in my room went Thank you, Bobby. Goodnight.
KLAATU: ( evasively ) Why the light in my room went ( cutting off further questions ) Thank you, Bobby. Goodnight.
MED. SHOT: shooting down the hall through the crack in Bobby's door. Klaatu's door is ajar and through it the lights in his room can be seen burning brightly. Klaatu goes to his door, reaches in and flips off the lights and closes the door. He then scans the hall in both directions. Satisfied he isn't seen, he moves surreptitiously down the hall toward the stairs, still carrying the flashlight.
MED. SHOT: shooting over Klaatu's shoulder. As he watches, a Jeep filled with armed soldiers apparently regular patrol drives up to the entrance of the building. They stop for a moment while their Sergeant checks with the guards. Assured that everything is under control, the Sergeant signals his driver and the Jeep moves off.
MED. SHOT: as Klaatu maneuvers around the side of the building, where there is a window. It has no glass in it but is heavily MED. CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU as he leaves the concealing foliage and crosses the clear, grassy area surrounding the building. He stops and tries to see through the window.
MED. SHOT: from Gort's viewpoint, of the window, with Klaatu's light flashing its signals.
MED. SHOT: from Bobby's viewpoint. Klaatu has emerged from the concealment of the tree-lined path and is making his way calmly toward the entrance of the building.
HELEN'S VOICE: ( off scene ) Why don't you come on in for a minute?
HELEN: Bobby! What are you doing up at this hour?
BOBBY: ( excitedly ) I couldn't go to sleep, Mom. I had to tell you!
HELEN: Tell me what?
BOBBY: ( the words tadpole out breathlessly ) I followed Mr. Carpenter right after you left and, gee, Mom, where do you think he went? Right into the space ship!
HELEN: ( patiently disbelieving ) Now, Bobby, just a minute
BOBBY: Honest, Mom, I saw him. It just opened up and he walked right in. And that great big iron man was moving around!
HELEN: Bobby, you've been dreaming again.
BOBBY: ( desperately ) No, I haven't, Mom. I promise you. I saw it!
TOM: Where did you see all this, Bobby?
BOBBY: On the lawn down at the mall in that place with the soldiers out Where were the soldiers all this That robot fella grabbed 'em and dragged 'em inside! I like Mr. Carpenter but I'm scared, Mom.
TOM: ( trying to trap him ) Where were the soldiers all this That robot fella grabbed 'em and dragged 'em inside! ( his lips trembling ) I like Mr. Carpenter but I'm scared, Mom.
BOBBY: That robot fella grabbed 'em and dragged 'em inside! I like Mr. Carpenter but I'm scared, Mom.
HELEN: ( holding him close to her sympathetically ) Mustn't be frightened, darling It was just a bad dream. Here we'll prove it to you. ( with a look and a nod to Tom ) Tom, will you ask Mr. Carpenter if he'll come down for a minute. ( Tom turns to go ) The room right opposite mine.
HELEN: Now think back hard. You didn't follow Mr. Carpenter at all, did you? You haven't even been out of the house.
BOBBY: Yes, I have!
HELEN: ( determinedly ) You didn't really see the space ship. You just thought you did.
BOBBY: I'd never call you a liar.
TOM: He's not there. But look what I found in his room
HELEN: ( takes the stone and studies it, amazed by its size ) Is it real?
TOM: ( with the shrug of an amateur ) Looks real to me.
BOBBY: Mr. Carpenter's got a lot of diamonds. He gave me a couple of them.
HELEN: He gave these to you?
BOBBY: ( guilty for his own sharp dealing ) Well, not exactly. I gave him two This doesn't make sense. I think the guy's a crook. I never did trust
TOM: This doesn't make sense. I think the guy's a crook. I never did trust
BOBBY: Gee, Mom, do you think maybe he's a diamond smuggler?
HELEN: ( firmly ) Come on, darling we're going up to bed.
TOM: I wonder if we ought to
HELEN: ( cutting him off with a look ) Bobby and I have had enough excitement for tonight.
TOM: ( seriously concerned ) You think it's all right for you to stay here?
HELEN: ( nods reassuringly ) I've got a good lock on my door. ( smiling at Bobby ) And Bobby's going to sleep in my room tonight.
BOBBY: Oh, boy can I, Mom?
HELEN: Yes, dear. Come on now. Bobby, your shoes are soaking!
BOBBY: ( reluctantly, with childish guilt ) Yeah the grass was kind of wet.
HELEN: ( unnerved ) Oh hello
KLAATU: May I see you for a minute?
HELEN: I I was Just going to lunch.
KLAATU: ( quietly insistent ) May I walk out with you?
HELEN: ( into phone ) Mrs. Benson speaking. ( recognizing the voice, she glances nervously at Klaatu ) Oh, hello.
TOM: ( into phone, cheerily ) I'm at Bleeker's getting an appraisal on that diamond. I thought we might have lunch together.
HELEN: ( with a nervous glance at Klaatu ) I I'm afraid I can't not right now. Can I talk to you later?. Yes, that'll be fine. 'Bye.
KLAATU: ( watching Helen's reaction ) I saw Bobby this morning before he went to school
HELEN: ( glancing at him apprehensively ) I want to know what he told you last ( nervous and evasive ) I I didn't really pay much ( with a nervous little laugh ) Bobby has such an active imagination.
KLAATU: I want to know what he told you last I I didn't really pay much Bobby has such an active imagination.
HELEN: ( nervous and evasive ) I I didn't really pay much ( with a nervous little laugh ) Bobby has such an active imagination.
KLAATU: ( refusing to be put off ) Did you believe what he told you? ( Helen hesitates, trapped by uncertainty ) I have a reason for asking this a very important reason.
MED. SHOT: They are approaching the elevator at the end of the corridor. There is a large crowd of lunch-goers milling around the elevator, which is quickly filled. Half the crowd is left as the elevator doors close and it descends.
HELEN: There's another elevator we can use
MED. SHOT: CAMERA FOLLOWS them as they turn into the side corridor. Helen leads the way to a small, automatic elevator. She presses the button and the doors open. Klaatu follows her INT. ELEVATOR As Helen presses the first floor button, the doors close and the elevator starts down. She turns to face Klaatu.
HELEN: ( her nerves raw and edgy ) What is it you want?
KLAATU: Before I ask you to be honest with me, perhaps I should be completely honest with you
HELEN: ( gasping with fright ) What happened?
KLAATU: ( a moment's hesitation; then he remembers ) What time is it? Just twelve.
HELEN: Just twelve.
KLAATU: We'll be stuck here for a little while about thirty minutes.
HELEN: ( preoccupied with her own thinking ) We could try pushing the other ( digging in her purse ) I have a flashlight in my purse.
KLAATU: It won't work.
HELEN: Why not?
KLAATU: ( after a moment, quietly ) You see the electricity's been neutralized all over the world. Bobby was telling the truth wasn't
HELEN: Bobby was telling the truth wasn't
CAB DRIVER: My ol' lady was right. We shoulda got a place in the country.
COCKNEY: It's that space man that's wot it
HILDA: You should see it, Professor Barnhardt! You should go out and see it for yourself!
BARNHARDT: Thanks I'm enjoying it right here.
HILDA: The whole city has stopped. People are running around like ants!
BARNHARDT: ( musing admiringly on Klaatu's cleverness ) What a brilliant idea. I never would have thought of it.
BARNHARDT: What about the people who are coming to the meeting tonight? Have they all arrived?
HILDA: ( nodding ) I talked to most of them this morning. They were all very curious about the meeting.
BARNHARDT: Good. Did you speak to our friend Mr. Carpenter?
HILDA: ( nodding ) He'll be there at 8:30.
BARNHARDT: ( studying her for a moment ) Tell me, Hilda does all this frighten you does it make you feel insecure?
HILDA: Yes, sir it certainly does!
BARNHARDT: ( nodding with a bland little smile ) That's good, Hilda. I'm glad.
GENERAL: as far as we can tell, all power's been cut off everywhere with a few exceptions: hospitals, planes in flight that sort of thing. I wish I could be more specific but, as you now, all communications are out telephone, radio, cable everything. I can tell you that the President is prepared to declare a state of national emergency. Before we start discussing plans, I want a report from Colonel Ryder. What about the robot, Colonel?
COLONEL RYDER: When it was discovered last night that the robot had moved, I was directed by the Joint Chiefs to find a means of immobilizing him. We accomplished that this morning by encasing him in a block of KL 93. It's a new plastic material stronger than steel.
GENERAL: Is it possible that he's broken out of this stuff?
COLONEL: No, sir. I've Just checked on that. He's locked up tight as a drum.
GENERAL: All right that means we concentrate on the man. Up till now we've agreed on the desirability of capturing this man alive. We can no longer afford to be so particular. We'll get him alive, if possible but we must get him! Is that clear?
JEWELER: Eleanor, did you call the electrician?
GIRL: ( she's not too bright ) I tried, Mr. Bleeker. But the phone doesn't work, either.
JEWELER: ( absently, as he studies the stone ) Well, call the phone company.
GIRL: ( plaintively ) But the phone doesn't work.
TOM: Is it worth anything?
JEWELER: I have never seen such a stone. Will you please tell me where it came That's what I wanted you to tell me.
TOM: That's what I wanted you to tell me.
JEWELER: ( overwhelmed and absorbed by the stone, he shakes his head, bewildered ) There are no diamonds like this any place in the world.
TOM: You sure about that?
JEWELER: ( eagerly, shrewdly ) Would you like to sell it?
TOM: ( picking up the stone ) No no, thanks.
JEWELER: I'd give you a very good price.
KLAATU: ( speaking gravely ) I've already told you more than I told Professor Barnhardt, because my life, in a sense, is in your hands. I thought if you knew the facts you'd appreciate the importance of my not being apprehended, before the meeting tonight.
HELEN: Yes, of course. Of course I do.
HELEN: ( studying his face anxiously ) You hold great hope for this meeting.
KLAATU: I can see no other hope for your planet. If the meeting should fail, then I'm afraid there is no hope.
KLAATU: ( calmly ) It must be twelve-thirty.
HELEN: ( looks at her watch, then back at him, awe-struck ) Yes Just exactly.
HELEN: Where are you going now?
KLAATU: Back to the boardinghouse. I'll be safe there for the afternoon and I can keep an eye on Bobby. He's the only other person who knows anything
HELEN: No, wait a minute there's someone Tom. He was there last night when Bobby told me what he saw.
KLAATU: Tom. He was there last night when Bobby told me what he saw.
HELEN: Tom. He was there last night when Bobby told me what he saw.
HELEN: ( worriedly ) Of course, he doesn't know anything definite. He'd talk to me first, anyway, before ( interrupting herself in sudden decision ) We can't take that chance. I'll get in touch with him right away and make sure.
HELEN: ( into phone ) But I've got to talk to him. It's terribly important. When is he coming
SECRETARY: I don't know, Mrs. Benson. He left before noon before that awful electric business. I'm scared to death, Mrs. Benson. I No, he wouldn't tell me where he was gong. Said it was something personal.
HELEN: Tell him I want to see him the minute he gets in. No, I'll call back.
VOICE: Attention, please.. All flights from National Airport have been canceled until further notice.. All flights from this airport have been
SECRETARY: ( into phone, nervous and jittery ) Honest, Mary, I'm so scared I can't sit still. I'd like to run some place, but I don't know where to go ( hearing the door open, she cuts off ) 'Bye now.
TOM: Call the Pentagon and find out who's in charge of this space man business. Whoever it is I want to talk to him.
SECRETARY: Mrs. Benson's been trying to get you all afternoon. She says it's Get this other call first.
TOM: Get this other call first.
SECRETARY: Oh, Mrs. Benson He just walked Are you nervous, too?
HELEN: Yes, I am, Margaret.
SECRETARY: Mrs. Benson is here. Go on in.
HELEN: Tom I've been trying to get you all afternoon
TOM: ( preoccupied with his own excitement ) Come on in.
TOM: I've got some terrific news about your friend, Mr. Carpenter.
HELEN: ( trying to appear calm ) What about him?
TOM: Helen, he's the man from the space I had that diamond checked at three different places. Nobody on earth's ever seen a stone like that! After what Bobby told us, that's enough for me. Why is it nobody knows anything about him? Why hasn't he got any money?
HELEN: ( evenly, with quiet tension ) All right, Tom it's true. I know it's true.
TOM: How do you know?
HELEN: Never mind about that. You've got to promise me you won't say a word to anybody.
TOM: Are you crazy? After what happened You don't understand. You don't realize how important it is.
HELEN: You don't understand. You don't realize how important it is.
TOM: ( impatiently ) Important? Of course it's important. The point is we can do something about it.
HELEN: That's what I'm trying to tell you. We mustn't do anything about it. Believe me, Tom, I know what I'm talking about.
TOM: ( irritated by her opposition ) He's a menace to the whole world! It's our duty to turn him in.
HELEN: ( desperately ) But he isn't a menace! He told me what he came here for.
TOM: ( dismissing this with annoyed contempt ) He told you. Don't be silly, honey just because you like the guy. ( busy with his own thoughts ) You realize what this'd mean for us? I'd be the biggest man in the country. I could write my own ticket.
HELEN: ( eyeing him coldly ) Is that what you're thinking about?
TOM: ( guiltily, defensive ) Why not? Somebody's got to get rid of him. I'm not going to let you do it, Tom. ( with deep personal urgency ) Believe me, this is literally the most important thing in the world.
HELEN: I'm not going to let you do it, Tom. Believe me, this is literally the most important thing in the world.
TOM: ( into phone ) Yes?. What's his name, Margaret? General Cutler? ( disappointed that the connection isn't completed ) All right, I'll hold on.
HELEN: Tom, you mustn't ! You don't know what you're doing! It isn't just you and Mr. Carpenter. The rest of the world, is involved!
TOM: ( exasperated ) I don't care about the rest of the
TOM: You'll feel different when you see my picture in the papers.
HELEN: ( staring at him starkly ) I feel different right now.
TOM: ( uneasily ) You wait and see. You're going to marry a big hero!
HELEN: I'm not going to marry anybody.
TOM: ( into phone ) Hello, General Cutler? ( irritated ) No, I don't want to speak to his aide. I want to speak to the General. Tell him it's about the space man. My name is Tom Stevens. S-t-e-v-e-n-
TOM: ( into phone ) That's right, General. That's where he's staying. Yes, of course I'm
GENERAL CUTLER: ( after listening for a moment ) Thank you very much, Mr. Stevens. I'll want to talk to you further but I haven't time now. ( hangs up and turns to Colonel ) Deploy all Zone 5 units according to Plan B immediately.
COLONEL: ( into radio ) Attention, Zone 5. Yellow cab, moving north on B from Ninth Street. Man and woman in back seat. Get the license number and report.
KLAATU: I'm sure Barnhardt can arrange to hide me until the meeting.
HELEN: Where is the meeting going to be?
KLAATU: At the ship.
COLONEL: ( into radio ) Attention, Zone 5. license number of target vehicle is W 4936. All vehicles maintain your positions and hold your fire.
COLONEL: ( into radio ) Attention, Zone 5 report when target vehicle passes your position.
HELEN: ( trying to give him encouragement ) It's only a few blocks to Barnhardt's.
KLAATU: I'm worried about Gort. I'm afraid of what he might do if anything should happen to me.
HELEN: ( puzzled ) But he's a robot. I mean without you, what could he do?
KLAATU: ( slowly ) There's no limit to what he could do. He could destroy the Earth. ( with great urgency ) If anything should happen to me, you must go to Gort. You must give him this message: "Klaatu barada nikto." Please repeat that.
HELEN: ( shocked and bewildered, she repeats nervously ) "Klaatu barada nikto."
KLAATU: ( gravely ) Remember those words.
COLONEL: ( into radio ) Attention, Zone 5. Section number 2 block off Tenth Street at Massachusetts. All vehicles close
MED. SHOT: at a major intersection, as the convoy of eight vehicles previously seen dashes through the intersection and stops. The cars quickly arrange themselves so that they form a roadblock, completely sealing off the street.
DRIVER: Hey, what's this all about?
KLAATU: ( weakly, insistently ) Get that message to Gort. Right away
MED. SHOT: as the soldiers pile out of their vehicles and close in on the place where Klaatu lies. He is their first and all- important concern, and Helen finds herself pushed out of the way, toward the edge of the growing crowd of soldiers.
CLOSE SHOT: Shocked and, staggered by what's happened, she realizes she must get to Gort. Taking advantage of the milling confusion in the dark, she edges toward the pedestrian underpass until she can slip into its entrance without being noticed. And she disappears.
NIGHT: In the eerie light of the huge building, the great robot stands encased in a solid block of clear, transparent plastic. As CAMERA MOVES IN slowly, we hear a low whirring sound, as of power being generated. A faint glow, visible through the plastic, emanates from Gort's body. His eyes, which seem to express rage, shifts as though he were straining to break out. As the whirring sound and the glow of Gort's body increase in intensity, the sharp edges at the top of the ice- like block melt into roundness and the plastic starts to drip away. ( About 150 folding chairs are arranged on the floor near the space ship for the meeting tonight. )
REVERSE SHOT: from same angle as scene before last. But the two soldiers have utterly disappeared.
FULL SHOT: as Gort resumes breaking out of the plastic. There is no sign of the two soldiers.
MED. SHOT: PANNING with Helen as she approaches the entrance fearfully. Rallying all her courage and determination, she forces herself to step inside.
HELEN: ( with desperate clarity ) Klaatu barada nikto.
MED. SHOT: PANNING with Gort as he carries Helen, speechless with fright, to the side of the ship. He touches the side, and the ramp moves slightly out. He mounts the ramp, still carrying Helen, and disappears into the ship with her. And the ramp closes silently behind them.
FULL SHOT: Ignoring Helen completely, Gort finishes his work. Then he moves to the door and goes out, closing the door behind him. Helen rushes to the door and searches frantically for the knob only to find, to her terror, that there is none. Frenziedly she beats on the solid metal door.
COLONEL: ( into phone ) Yes, sir, we've got the body here now. Downstairs in a cell. No question about it, General he's dead all right. Yes, sir. Yes I
COLONEL: General Cutler's coming down here right away. Take a squad of men, Lieutenant, and post a guard around that cell. Captain, don't let anyone in or out of the building.
MED. SHOT: shooting over the backs of the soldiers as they reach the cell and look inside. There they see the giant robot picking up the body of Klaatu and starting deliberately toward the gaping hole in the side of the building. They raise their weapons and fire at Gort, but the bullets have no effect on him. Continuing uninterruptedly, he steps over the debris and disappears, carrying Klaatu in his arms.
FULL SHOT: Gort fiddles with the dials again and there are electrical cracklings and sputterings. Suddenly he flips a switch and all sound ceases. Gort removes the electrodes and watches Klaatu. CAMERA MOVES IN on Klaatu and we see him start to breathe. In a moment his eyelids flutter. Then his eyes open and he looks around.
KLAATU: ( with a grateful glance at Gort, he turns to Helen ) ( staring at him ) I I thought you were
HELEN: ( staring at him ) I I thought you were
KLAATU: ( nodding, with a smile ) I was.
HELEN: ( looking at Gort in awe ) You mean he has the power of life and death?
KLAATU: No that is a power reserved to the Almighty Spirit.
KLAATU: ( indicating the equipment Gort used ) This technique, in certain cases, can re-stimulate life for a limited period. It's a refinement of scientific principles known to your own people.
HELEN: ( concerned for him ) But how how long?
KLAATU: How long will I live? That no one can say.
COLONEL: I'm sorry, Professor Barnhardt I have to ask you to call off this Call it off? I. But I had permission from the Army
BARNHARDT: Call it off? I. But I had permission from the Army
COLONEL: I know you did. But the robots on the loose now and it isn't safe around here. You'll have to get your friends out of that building.
KLAATU: Gort and I will be leaving soon.
HELEN: ( simply, sincerely ) We'll miss you very much Bobby and I. ( smiling to conceal her real feelings ) He won't have anyone to play with.
KLAATU: He'll have you and Tom.
HELEN: ( quietly definitely ) No. That's all finished.
KLAATU: I'm sorry.
HELEN: ( she is sensible and objective, but not unfeeling ) I think I'm very lucky. You don't always get a chance to recognize a mistake before you make it.
BARNHARDT: Ladies and Gentlemen
BARNHARDT: I called you from your work and from your homes all over the world because we were to meet here tonight with a man from another planet the man who came here in this ship. As you all know, this is no longer possible. I can only say that I share the bitterness of your disappointment.
KLAATU: Gort berengo.
BARNHARDT: under the circumstances, the Army people have asked us to leave the building. And, since their concern is for our safety, I can do nothing but suggest that we comply
KLAATU: ( straightforwardly, with almost stern authority ) I am leaving soon and you will forgive me if I speak bluntly. ( he pauses, studying the faces ) The Universe grows smaller every day and the threat of aggression by any group anywhere can no longer be tolerated.
KLAATU'S VOICE: ( over scene ) There must be security for all or no one is secure. This does not mean giving up any freedom except the freedom to act irresponsibly.
KLAATU'S VOICE: ( over scene ) Your ancestors knew this when they made laws to govern themselves and hired policemen to enforce them.
KLAATU: We of the other planets have long accepted this principle. We have an organization for the mutual protection of all planets and for the complete elimination of aggression. A sort of United Nations on the Planetary level. The test of any such higher authority, of course, is the police force that supports it. For our policemen, we created a race of robots Their function is to patrol the planets in space ships like this one and preserve the peace. In matters of aggression we have given them absolute power over us.
KLAATU'S VOICE: ( over scene ) At the first sign of violence they act automatically against the aggressor. And the penalty for provoking their action is too terrible to risk.
KLAATU: The result is that we live in peace, without arms or armies, secure in the knowledge that we are free from aggression and war free to pursue more profitable enterprises. We do not pretend to have achieved perfection but we do have a system and it works. I came here to give you the facts. It is no concern of ours how you run your own planet but if you threaten to extend your violence, this Earth of yours will be reduced to a burned- out cinder.
KLAATU: Your choice is simple. Join us and live in peace. Or pursue your present course and face obliteration. We will be waiting for your answer. decision rests with you.
MED. SHOT: CAMERA MOVES IN on Klaatu as he is saying goodbye to Barnhardt and Helen. He turns then and speaks to Gort, glancing up at the building as he does so.
KLAATU: Gort veracto.
THE END: Writers : Edmund H. North
