FOR EDUCATIONAL: PURPOSES ONLY BEGIN CREDITS EXT. KIDNET STUDIO -C - EVENING A man in a puffy foam-rubber rhinoceros costume dancing under the bright friendly lights of a television studio. Another rhino and various foam-rubber animals dance behind him to the happy MUSIC. The rhino finishes his number and takes a bow. A bleacher full of kids bursts into wild applause.
PURPOSES ONLY: BEGIN CREDITS EXT. KIDNET STUDIO -C - EVENING A man in a puffy foam-rubber rhinoceros costume dancing under the bright friendly lights of a television studio. Another rhino and various foam-rubber animals dance behind him to the happy MUSIC. The rhino finishes his number and takes a bow. A bleacher full of kids bursts into wild applause.
BEGIN CREDITS: EXT. KIDNET STUDIO -C - EVENING A man in a puffy foam-rubber rhinoceros costume dancing under the bright friendly lights of a television studio. Another rhino and various foam-rubber animals dance behind him to the happy MUSIC. The rhino finishes his number and takes a bow. A bleacher full of kids bursts into wild applause.
RANDOLPH: ( singing ) 'Friends come in all sizes That's a fact! It's True! All colors of the rainbow from Mauve to Blue.
HUSBAND: So. uh. you'll make sure my boy dances up front, right? Where he'll get the most camera time?
RANDOLPH: You want your kid on the show?
HUSBAND: Of. of course.
WIFE: Yes, very much.
RANDOLPH: Then don't tell me how to run my fucking business.
HUSBAND: No, no, we were just
RANDOLPH: I'll call you if a spot opens up.
HUSBAND: Freeze, you cocksucker!
WIFE: Drop the briefcase!
STOKES: is standing at the end of a long conference table as the NETWORK BRASS glares at him.
STOKES: ( addressing the brass ) Gentlemen, let me be the first to say, in all sobriety, that I'm as shocked and outraged as all of
CEO: Save it for the papers, Stokes. We've got nervous sponsors and an angry public a combination uglier than two monkeys fucking. What are you doing about it?
STOKES: Well, sir, I'm currently in the process of compiling a list of viable replacements and it's my Clean replacements? With background checks? I assure you, Mr. Stokes, this network cannot survive another Rainbow Randolph. The goddamn P.R. department looks like the Jim Jones camp.
CEO: Clean replacements? With background checks? I assure you, Mr. Stokes, this network cannot survive another Rainbow Randolph. The goddamn P.R. department looks like the Jim Jones camp.
EXECUTIVE #1: Remember, Stokes, this was your dog that crapped on our rug.
EXECUTIVE #2: We trusted you, Frank. And now we're in a tight spot. We have to post our quarterly earnings next month, for Christ's sake.
CEO: Whoever takes that slot has to be a straight arrow. Clean as a Right. Someone who'll take the heat off. One of those sweater types. Any chance of luring Fred Rogers away from P.B.S.?
EXECUTIVE #3: Right. Someone who'll take the heat off. One of those sweater types. Any chance of luring Fred Rogers away from P.B.S.?
EXECUTIVE #4: Yeah, if we back up the Brinks No way. The idea now is to stop the hemorrhaging.
EXECUTIVE #1: No way. The idea now is to stop the hemorrhaging.
EXECUTIVE #2: You better fix this, Stokes. Get us a white bread replacement, fast. Bland, milk toast. Not a speck of controversy.
CEO: ( calm and measured ) Squeaky fucking clean.
STOKES: Bumble Bee Billy?
NORA: ( reading from a list ) Wife beater.
STOKES: Square Dance Danny?
NORA: Still appealing the mail fraud Skippy Black and the Tippy Trolls?
STOKES: Skippy Black and the Tippy Trolls?
NORA: Black was deported, and the trolls. well, who gives a shit.
NORA: This is impossible. If I ever see that Rainbow Randolph again I'll strangle him. Choke the life out of him. Squeeze his scrawny neck until his eyes pop out of his skull and bounce off the walls.
STOKES: Before indulging such cheery fantasies, let's just concentrate on saving my job. Shall we?
NORA: Sorry, Frank.
STOKES: What's going on with Sheldon Mopes these days.
NORA: Oh my God. Have we sunk to that level already? Smoochy the Rhino? What a sap.
STOKES: Sap's just the pill we need right now. Mopes is a straight arrow. Always has been.
NORA: The guy can't get arrested, Frank. He can't even break into the birthday party circuit. Last I heard he was working hospitals and nursing homes. He's a joke.
STOKES: The truth of the matter is, a successful children's show has always depended on two simple elements: a fuzzy costume and a lot of hype. Strip away the foam rubber and the network money and they're all jokes. Marginal talents.. cabaret acts. off- Broadway runoff.
NORA: I probably have ten acts in my development file acts I've been cultivating that are more deserving than Sheldon Mopes.
STOKES: And each one a moral question mark. Something I can't risk at the moment.
NORA: ( frustrated ) We can do better than this guy, Frank. He brings nothing to the Except ethics. With Mopes, there's never been a whiff of controversy. The man's an ethical, harmless, cornball. In short, a glass of milk on two
STOKES: Except ethics. With Mopes, there's never been a whiff of controversy. The man's an ethical, harmless, cornball. In short, a glass of milk on two
NORA: Don't ask me to do it. You know I'll do anything for you, but please. not this.
STOKES: Go find Smoochy.
SMOOCHY: Thanks, fellas. I'm rooting for
NORA: Mr. Mopes?
SHELDON: ( CONTINUED )
NORA: I, uh, saw your performance tonight. Very. . spirited.
SHELDON: Really? Thanks. I would've done a longer set if that guy hadn't pulled a knife on the security guard. Once the pepper spray starts flyin', that's it for the Yes, that did put a damper on the evening, didn't it?
NORA: Yes, that did put a damper on the evening, didn't it?
SHELDON: Are you a new patient? On the juice, as we say?
NORA: Ah, no. But it's sweet of you to assume so.
SHELDON: 'Nora Bishop. V.P. of Development. Kidnet.' Good gravy. You work for Kidnet?
NORA: As stated.
SHELDON: Well, it's a pleasure to meet you, Nora. A real honor. Hey, you
WHILE LATER: Sheldon and Nora stand at the crowded counter at Nathan's. Sheldon ravenously eats his sloppily- garnished, oddly colored hot dog. Nora winces as she watches him.
SHELDON: ( with full mouth ) Soy dogs. never thought I'd live to see the day. Organic, rich in natural protein, and nobody gets killed. Although I do feel bad for the beans. Just kidding. Sure you don't want one?
NORA: Believe it or not, no.
SHELDON: So anyway, like I was saying, people always tell me, 'You gotta network, Sheldon. you gotta sell yourself. or you'll be playing the drug clinics and shopping centers the rest of your life.' And you know what I tell 'em?
NORA: I haven't the foggiest.
SHELDON: I tell 'em, it's not about the old handshake and back slap game. It's not about adding fuel to the shlock machine. It's about doing good work. Having integrity. Making people happy and delivering a positive message. Foundations are built with concrete, not plaster of Paris!
SHELDON: This is concrete! This is I can see that.
NORA: ( calmly ) I can see that.
SHELDON: Sorry. As you can imagine, living by your convictions can be a little stressful at times.
NORA: We all have our cross to bear.
SHELDON: See, I was raised by my grandfather, and Grandpop paved driveways for a living.
NORA: Are we going into a story?
SHELDON: Thing is, he didn't really pave them. Just covered them with black paint. Of course, once the first rain came along, people realized they'd been swindled. I vowed to myself back then that I'd never make a living through deception. Never. Whadda ya think of them apples?
NORA: The reason I'm here today, Mr. Mopes, as fate would have it, Kidnet is currently looking for a performer with. convictions. And integrity. Someone like.
NORA: . yourself.
SHELDON: Yeah, right. Got any more jokes?
NORA: I don't think I could top that Hold the phone. You're telling me that Kidnet is finally ready to do a show of Smoochy quality? Of Smoochy caliber?
SHELDON: Hold the phone. You're telling me that Kidnet is finally ready to do a show of Smoochy quality? Of Smoochy caliber?
NORA: ( dryly ) Yes. I believe we're ready to push ourselves to that level.
SHELDON: I knew this day would come! After all these years I finally meet someone in the business who gets what I do. Who gets what I'm all about. You get me, don't you, I'm afraid so.
NORA: I'm afraid so.
SHELDON: Well, Miss V.P. of Development. let's go make history!
PREP MONTAGE: KIDNET STUDIO WARDROBE ROOM. A team of designers and seamstresses cut, sew and shape endless sheets of orange foam rubber. Sheldon stands on a wooden box as he's measured from head to toe. On the wall is a blueprint labeled "Smoochy the Rhino REDESIGN." A costume designer walks over with the new Smoochy head and places it on Sheldon. As seamstresses fit him with the new Smoochy costume, various signs and billboards FLOAT THROUGH the FRAME, trumpeting copy like: "IT'S ALMOST SMOOCHY TIME!"
WARDROBE ROOM: A seamstress zips up the back of the finished, redesigned Smoochy costume. Sheldon stands proudly before the design team. Smoochy is now television ready: smoothed out, more colorful, less lumpy and exuding sunshiny STUDIO -C - BACKSTAGE Smoochy is about to enter with the Rhinettes. ANGELO, a former Krinkle Kid, stands beside him.
SMOOCHY: Angelo, you were always my favorite Krinkle Kid. The way you'd click your heels during the 'Jellybean Jam.' Real artistry. I'm honored to have you as a Rhinette.
ANGELO: A job's a job.
KIDS: Smoochy bounds out on stage followed by the Rhinettes who form a dancing circle around him.
SMOOCHY: Hiya, kids!
KIDS: Hi, Smoochy!
SMOOCHY: It's gonna be a fantabulous day in
SMOOCHY: ( singing ) 'Ohhhh. it's a fantabulous day in Smoochy-land/Let's have a great big cheer for the Smoochy-land band/We'll dance with our jungle pals, won't that be grand/Oh, it's a fantabulous day in Smoochy-
RANDOLPH: I was starting to think that maybe you weren't coming.
STOKES: I agreed to meet you, didn't I? I had a dinner engagement.
RANDOLPH: Really? You know, I used to have dinner engagements. Sometimes four, five a night. Dinner. drinks. I was the toast of the fucking town.
STOKES: Don't start, Randolph. Please.
RANDOLPH: ( voice rising ) Cars, boats, whores and horses, I had 'em all. When I walked into a restaurant, ten guys reached for my hat. When I stood up to take a piss, they cleared the rest room. I'd walk down the street and traffic stopped, mouths gaped. You know why? You know why, ( now shouting ) I was Rainbow fucking Randolph! That's why!
STOKES: Are you through?
RANDOLPH: What? You're in a hurry? You don't have time for me? The guy who earned for you? The guy who put those fucking suits on your back and the pheasant au vin in your Brooklyn mouth?
STOKES: I think it's fair to say we helped each other.
RANDOLPH: ( pleading ) You gotta fix it, Frank. You gotta get me my slot back.
RANDOLPH: How can I sit around while that rhinoceros. that horned carpetbagger gets a free ride on my dime? You and I have history, Frank! Please!
STOKES: There's nothing I can do for you. Nothing. You're a pariah. I can't even be seen with you.
RANDOLPH: Don't do this to me, Frank. I'm in deep, deep shit. They kicked me out of the corporate penthouse. I got bookies breathing down my neck. I'm homeless! Don't you hear what I'm saying? I'm not gonna make it! The clock's ticking! Put yourself in my shoes, for Christ's sake!
STOKES: The ugly truth is, your shoes have become my shoes. As long as the rhino's on the air, everything's by the book. No skim, no percentage. Nothing. The network wanted squeaky clean and they got it. And believe me, Mopes is
STOKES: You're totally broke? You don't have a dime left to your name?
RANDOLPH: Yes! Exactly! That's what I'm trying to tell you! Don't contact me again, Randy.
STOKE: Don't contact me again, Randy.
RANDOLPH: You'll get yours, Frank! The rhino too! Do you hear me?! The wheels are turning! Sooner or later, even a guy who's squeaky clean falls into mud.
RANDOLPH: ( quietly to Sooner or later, even a guy who's squeaky clean falls into mud.
WIDER: The wind-up Smoochy lays upside-down on the carpet next to Nora's desk, legs grinding lamely in the air. Various Smoochy items are spread out on her desk top. A restless-looking Sheldon and a few members of Nora's staff are in on the meeting.
NORA: Again, these are just prototypes. I've been assured by FunZone that all the bugs will be worked out before Christmas.
NORA: Okay, so let's recap before we break up. Yes to the Smoochy ice pops. No to the Smoochy string cheese. And we're in a dick-measuring contest with Brown & Brown over the shampoo split.
SHELDON: Okay, time out, people! If I may interject, I think we're putting the cart before the horse here.
SHELDON: Smoochy's still earning the trust of the kids. We don't want to compromise that by asking them to buy shampoo and cheese. How 'bout we just concentrate on doing the best show possible. Huh? Without all the bells and whistles and rickata-rackita. What do you say, Oh, damn.
NORA: ( monotone ) Oh, damn.
SHELDON: No problem, I'll get it.
NORA: ( to staffer ) Shut the door please, John.
NORA: Now lock it.
NORA: Thank you.
SHELDON: Hey, Nora, wait up.
SHELDON: Good meeting today. I thought we tackled some hot issues. Although, I'll be honest, there were a few times that I felt my voice wasn't being heard.
NORA: I think that's a conservative I just want the show to have some weight, you know? Some substance. Silly songs, sure but with a message. Pop quiz: How many original compositions are in the Smoochy songbook?
SHELDON: I just want the show to have some weight, you know? Some substance. Silly songs, sure but with a message. Pop quiz: How many original compositions are in the Smoochy songbook?
NORA: Do you sense my complete lack of Try two thousand. Covering every topic from how yummy vegetables are to the importance of donating plasma. Don't you get it, Nora? I'm a valuable resource. Use me. Can I make this real easy for you?
SHELDON: Try two thousand. Covering every topic from how yummy vegetables are to the importance of donating plasma. Don't you get it, Nora? I'm a valuable resource. Use me. Can I make this real easy for you?
NORA: Can I make this real easy for you?
SHELDON: The only reason you're on TV right now is because Rainbow Randolph is a degenerate scumbag. I didn't discover you, I delivered you. Like a bag of groceries. I have a bigger emotional investment in my nail polish. So don't peddle your sap to me, rhino. Your job is just to smile and nod your head.
NORA: The only reason you're on TV right now is because Rainbow Randolph is a degenerate scumbag. I didn't discover you, I delivered you. Like a bag of groceries. I have a bigger emotional investment in my nail polish. So don't peddle your sap to me, rhino. Your job is just to smile and nod your head.
SHELDON: . No, no, you misunderstand me. It's not that I'm literally comparing Captain Kangaroo to Jesus Christ. I'm just saying that the Captain, like Christ, was someone you could believe in. Those guys didn't care about bells and whistles and rickita-rackata. It was all about the work. Especially Jesus. Forget about That's okay, my good man. Three's my limit.
SHELDON: ( waving him off ) That's okay, my good man. Three's my limit.
BARTENDER: I never saw anyone get loaded on orange juice before.
SHELDON: Back in my college days I could put away a carton of the stuff. Gimme a Five Crown.
BURKE: ( to Bartender ) Gimme a Five Crown.
BURKE: Smoochy the Rhino. Wow. I'm a big fan.
SHELDON: ( flattered ) Gee, thanks. I usually don't get recognized without my horn.
BURKE: Burke Bennett. I represent kid show talent.
BURKE: Look, Shel, Frank Strokes ain't in the business to make you rich. He's in it to make Frank Stokes rich. That's how these network goons operate.
SHELDON: That's so sad. Is it just me, or is that sad?
BURKE: You know, years ago, a client of mine, Dicky Gimble, was having a Wow, you represented Dicky Gimble?
SHELDON: Wow, you represented Dicky Gimble?
BURKE: Yeah, before the asshole found religion. Anyway, Stokes was trying to screw my boy out of some merchandising points. Claimed he had a warehouse full of Dicky dolls that weren't moving. Now Frank and I are old friends, so I say to him, 'Okay, cock, show me the warehouse' see, I know the fucking warehouse is in the Bronx, and I know it's emptier than my wife's head. To make a long story short, I walk out with a check for a hundred grand and Stokes is sitting there with his thumb up his ass.
SHELDON: That's very amusing, but I don't care about Smoochy dolls and Smoochy floor wax. I just want more creative input. This rhino came from my womb. I bore him, I nursed him, and dammit.
SHELDON: I should be the one who raises Shel, it's all about the dough. After you get the money, you get the power. And after you get the power, you can have Smoochy walk on stage with a hard-on if you It's funny, that never crossed my
BURKE: Shel, it's all about the dough. After you get the money, you get the power. And after you get the power, you can have Smoochy walk on stage with a hard-on if you It's funny, that never crossed my
SHELDON: It's funny, that never crossed my
BURKE: Unfortunately, until then. you're just another puppet in the prop room.
BURKE: Give me a call when you're ready, kid. I'll cut the strings and open the magic door for you.
RANDOLPH: I saw you! I saw you in there. at my table. talking to him.
BURKE: Yeah, so what do you want? A You're my agent! Or did you forget that?
RANDOLPH: You're my agent! Or did you forget that?
BURKE: Not anymore, pal. You're a cigarette butt. Go lay in the
RANDOLPH: Ah! They're beautiful! A perfect batch of cock cookies for a very special rhino.
RANDOLPH: Oh yes, you're going to learn about shame, my dear Smoochy. And I'm your professor.
BACKSTAGE: Sheldon, in the Smoochy costume, sans head, lumbers up to Nora. He holds a rundown for that day's show.
SHELDON: Excuse me, Nora. Why was the 'Please and Thank You Song' cut?
NORA: Because it's sappy and it takes away from the 'Cookie Song.'
SHELDON: Takes away? It enhances it! The cookie song is a meaningless piece of fluff without the 'Please and Thank You' coda! That's the moral anchor! That's where the lesson is! You can't sell the sizzle without the steak!
NORA: It's cut. And I want the 'Cookie Song' lyrics changed back to the way they were originally scripted.
SHELDON: I can't do that. I will not condone children consuming endless amounts of refined sugar. I have to look myself in the mirror every This is network television, not a sprout farm. We're here to sell sugar and plastic. That's what keeps the lights on.
NORA: This is network television, not a sprout farm. We're here to sell sugar and plastic. That's what keeps the lights on.
SHELDON: You're treating me like a puppet. You know that? Well, guess what? I am not your puppet.
NORA: Since when? Now get your spongy orange ass out there and dance for the cameras.
SHELDON: We have different eyes, Nora. When I go out there I see kids. You see wallets with pigtails.
RANDOLPH: Bon soir, la Smoochy. Welcome to fatty Arbuckle-land.
RANDOLPH: ( softly to himself ) Don't worry, little ones. Rainbow Randolph will return. ( with rising anger ) After these messages!
SMOOCHY: Boy, all that jiggyin' and ziggyin' sure makes a fella hungry! Now if only I had my super duper, super secret, super
KIDS: Magic Cookie Bag!
SMOOCHY: ( looks skyward ) Magic Cookie Bag, I command thee! Come to your lord and master!
SMOOCHY: ( singing ) 'Lookie, lookie, lookie, here comes the cookies! Fresh and organic, no need to panic! Right from the soil, no tropical oils! Sweetened with juice, for an energy boost! Fiber galore, you'll be askin' for more.'
SMOOCHY: Oooh. just the smell of unprocessed flour makes my tummy do somersaults!
RANDOLPH: ( under his breath ) Whatever that means, you fucking
SMOOCHY: His puffy orange hand reaches for the bag's clasp as the MUSIC reaches its CRESCENDO.
RANDOLPH: He's practically shaking as he suppresses an insane He reaches into the bag, and with a grand flourish, pulls out a flaming red penis cookie. The cookie is somewhat misshapen and not perfectly formed. Smoochy gets a big The kids "ooh" and "ahh."
RANDOLPH: Give 'em a cookie. give 'em a Wow! Look at this cookie, kids! A rocket ship!
SMOOCHY: He reaches into the bag, and with a grand flourish, pulls out a flaming red penis cookie. The cookie is somewhat misshapen and not perfectly formed. Smoochy gets a big The kids "ooh" and "ahh."
SMOOCHY: Wow! Look at this cookie, kids! A rocket ship!
SHELDON: What a special day with such special cookies!
SHELDON: Rrrrrrrr! Look at me, kids! I'm flying to the moon! I'm flying to Mars! I'm flying to
RANDOLPH: Are you fucking blind?! It's a cock! Not a space ship! Cock!
WIDE: Burke sits on the couch next to Sheldon, reading the paper. He shakes his head in disgust. Nora sits in a chair near Stokes.
SHELDON: Thank you all for coming. I just wanted to iron out a few wrinkles I feel we're having in the communication department. No finger-pointing. Lord knows when you start pointing fingers, someone gets poked in the eye.
SHELDON: Anyhoo, I'd like to turn the floor over to my new agent, Mr. Burke Bennett. So. heeeeeere's Burke!
BURKE: As you can imagine, my client has many concerns, not the least of which is studio security, but we can address that later.
BURKE: See this guy, Frank? Take a good long look, 'cause this prick saved your life. Without him you'd be sitting in Kaplan's right now, sucking club soda through a paper And, you you'd be organizing puppet shows for the brats at P.S. 86. Excuse me, honey.
NORA: There's no excuse for you.
SHELDON: Man, I love club soda.
STOKES: We've always managed to come to some sort of arrangement, Burke. Why the fireworks?
BURKE: 'Cause I'm holding all the gunpowder. I represent the man who created, owns, and controls every square inch of Smoochy the
BURKE: God created Adam and what did he get? A fucking dud. My guy? He breathed life into a winner. And anyone who does a better job than God is gonna have a price.
SHELDON: Burke, of course, is in no way comparing me to God.
BURKE: Yes I am.
NORA: You seem to forget that we went out and found 'your guy.' Dug up his corpse. Handed him his own show when he couldn't sell his face to a photo booth.
SHELDON: To be fair, Nora, I was booked to open a car wash in Montauk.
BURKE: Oh, so you were doing him a favor? Allow me to untangle this web of shit! I don't care what his resume was, I don't care where you found him, I don't care if his last job was juggling apples for a hut full of Pygmies on the outskirts of the Congo. the fact is, he fits a bill and you need him. Like a hungry baby needs a big tit. And that, my friends, is why you're in a box with no ventilation. And that is why the rhino is going to get what he deserves.
STOKES: What is that, exactly?
BURKE: Heaven, hell, and everything in
WIDE: Sheldon and Burke sit at a table in the nightclub. Burke raises his glass.
BURKE: To the star and new executive producer of the Smoochy show! May your reign be a long and healthy
SHELDON: I'm still in shock. Complete creative control, part ownership of the show, discretion over merchandising and a dressing room with a toilet! Am I dreaming or And don't forget the corporate penthouse. It took me six years to get that for Randolph.
BURKE: And don't forget the corporate penthouse. It took me six years to get that for Randolph.
SHELDON: Boy, imagine. me, living in a penthouse. Who'd a thunk it.
BURKE: It's called the high life, kid. Get used to it. Pretty soon you'll be burnin' one hundred dollar bills just to see Franklin break a sweat.
SHELDON: Jeez, I hope not. I have a deep respect for money. Not to mention Ben Franklin who had some remarkable achievements in his
SHELDON: What's this?
BURKE: That's your graduation present. Something you're gonna need now. Think of it as a tool of the I've never owned a gun, I've never touched a gun, and I don't believe in guns. When I played cowboys and Indians as a kid, I was always the Chinese railroad worker.
BURKE: Think of it as a tool of the I've never owned a gun, I've never touched a gun, and I don't believe in guns. When I played cowboys and Indians as a kid, I was always the Chinese railroad worker.
SHELDON: I've never owned a gun, I've never touched a gun, and I don't believe in guns. When I played cowboys and Indians as a kid, I was always the Chinese railroad worker.
BURKE: Trust me, Shel. It's a handy accessory in this business. Even if you don't load it, have it for show. Sometimes that's all you need. Especially with a creep like Randolph lurking around.
SPINNER: Hiya, Smoochy! I'm Spinner! Hi there.
SHELDON: Hi there.
SPINNER: I'm so excited to meet you! I'm
SHELDON: ( remembers ) Oh. right. I saw you fight on TV once. I think it was your farewell bout.
SPINNER: You know what I love, Smoochy? I love when you do the Jiggy Ziggy dance! You know, the one you do during 'Silly Time?'
SHELDON: You bet. That's a big one.
SPINNER: Wanna see me do it?
SHELDON: Well, I don't know why if there's enough room here to.
BURKE: Okay, champ, don't get overheated. I love you.
SPINNER: I love you.
SHELDON: I. uh. love you, too, Spinner.
TOMMY: Spinner, come over and meet the
SHELDON: He seems pretty popular. It must take real talent to run a place like this.
BURKE: Spinner? The guy couldn't run a water faucet. He's just a mascot. It's his cousins, a bunch of Irish mob boys, who really run the
SPINNER: ( loudly ) Don't go anywhere, Smoochy! I'll be right back after I take a dump!
BURKE: I think you made a new friend,
ANGELO: Yeah, who is it?
ANGELO: Randolph suddenly kicks the door open and tackles Angelo. Randolph sits on top of the little man.
RANDOLPH: You fucking traitor! My body's barely cold and already you work for the rhino?
ANGELO: I don't know what you're talking Don't lie to me! I heard all about it! You strapped that horn on faster than a cheerleader gets the I gotta eat, don't I?
RANDOLPH: Don't lie to me! I heard all about it! You strapped that horn on faster than a cheerleader gets the I gotta eat, don't I?
ANGELO: I gotta eat, don't I?
RANDOLPH: You're a Krinkle Kid! Not a Smooch-bag! Say it!
ANGELO: ( CONTINUED )
RANDOLPH: Say it: I am a Krinkle Kid! Say it, before God! On the soul of Jesus Christ! Say what you are!
ANGELO: I'm a Rhinette. Got that? The Krinkle Kids are ten feet under. With you.
RANDOLPH: ( blubbering ) I missed you so much. Can I stay here? I got no place to go.
RANDOLPH: . They kicked me out of the corporate penthouse. Big surprise. Sons-a-bitches. That's how I got this beauty.
RANDOLPH: And of course, there's this.
RANDOLPH: That happened after my little visit to the studio the other day. Network security. Fucking savages.
RANDOLPH: I got liens, back taxes, lawyer's bills, threats against my life. I basically got the whole fucking world up my ass. It's okay, I got a loooong memory, son. What dey sow, dey gonna reap. Stop doing this to yourself!
ANGELO: Stop doing this to yourself!
ANGELO: Wise up! You hear me? Don't piss your life away like this.
RANDOLPH: ( half-conscious ) It's the rhino, Angie. He's been sent by the devil. Sent from hell to destroy me. Smoochy. is the face of evil.
SHELDON: Whenever you get a chance. I just need a second.
NORA: ( into the phone ) Listen, can I call you back? Yeah, some asshole's screaming in my ear. Thanks.
SHELDON: I'm sorry, you didn't have to hang If I didn't you'd still be here.
NORA: If I didn't you'd still be here.
SHELDON: But I am still here.
NORA: I'm hoping to correct that.
SHELDON: Nora, I want us to start off on the right foot. I want you to know that I value your input and I don't want you to feel intimidated just because the power structure has changed a bit. I consider you a partner.
NORA: Great. That'll come in handy if we're ever at a square dance.
SHELDON: Well, I was never much of the do- se-do type, but what I would love to do is take you out to lunch one day. You know, just two colleagues chewing the fat. forming a mutual respect. planting the seeds of
NORA: Fair enough. If you change your I won't.
SHELDON: Fair enough. If you change your I won't.
NORA: I won't.
SHELDON: Okay then, I'll be in my office if you need me. If you want to brainstorm about anything. Ideas and so forth.
SHELDON: She ignores him. He exits.
SHELDON: TOMMY ( O.S. )
TOMMY: Ever since you came in the restaurant. He can't stop yakkin'.
SHELDON: Well, he's a very nice man. Very sweet disposition for someone that So, I was wondering if maybe you could give him a little floor I'm sorry?
TOMMY: So, I was wondering if maybe you could give him a little floor I'm sorry?
SHELDON: I'm sorry?
TOMMY: You know, a little part on the show. You're the executive producer now. You call the shots, Uh, that's a very sweet offer, and I love Spinner, but TV is a complicated medium and. I mean, that would be like me getting into the ring with a prizefighter. Can you imagine such a thing? Boom. K.O.! What's the alphabet,
SHELDON: Uh, that's a very sweet offer, and I love Spinner, but TV is a complicated medium and. I mean, that would be like me getting into the ring with a prizefighter. Can you imagine such a thing? Boom. K.O.! What's the alphabet,
TOMMY: This makes me sad. Very, very, What's wrong, Tommy?
DANNY: What's wrong, Tommy?
TOMMY: Nothing. I'm just very sad right Who made you sad, Tommy?
SAMMY: Who made you sad, Tommy?
TOMMY: I don't want to mention names.
SHELDON: You know what? Maybe I can find Spinner a little something to do on the show. That's probably the best solution.
TOMMY: You're a good boy, Mopes. Don't think we don't remember favors.
SHELDON: Look, I appreciate the visit, but I'm just putting together a little petting zoo segment. Nothing fancy a few kittens. maybe a If you're looking to bring in that many pieces I gotta put a crew together. Plus, we're lookin' at transpo, a few leash handlers, a cleanup boy and a doper to keep the inventory quiet.
LOCAL 358: If you're looking to bring in that many pieces I gotta put a crew together. Plus, we're lookin' at transpo, a few leash handlers, a cleanup boy and a doper to keep the inventory quiet.
SONNY: If you're looking to bring in that many pieces I gotta put a crew together. Plus, we're lookin' at transpo, a few leash handlers, a cleanup boy and a doper to keep the inventory quiet.
SHELDON: Jeez, this all sounds awfully elaborate. I might have to forgo the union and just borrow a few animals from a pet shop.
SONNY: I wouldn't recommend it. Miss Carol from Romper Room tried that once and she's still limping.
BEN: On behalf of FunZone Toys, I'd like to congratulate you on your recent promotion, and present you with a small gift.
SHELDON: Uh. that's nice of you, Ben, but a card would have been fine.
BEN: FunZone Toys would very much like the Smoochy contract, Mr. Mopes.
SHELDON: Is this. I mean. are you offering me a bribe or something?
BEN: FunZone Toys would very much like the Smoochy contract, Mr. Mopes.
SHELDON: Normally, sir, we take the trash out at the end of the day, but I think I'll make an exception in your case.
SHELDON: ASSISTANT ( V.O. ) A Mr. Feedlepepper on line two.
SHELDON: ASSISTANT ( V.O. ) He says he's an old friend.
SHELDON: INT. ANGELO'S APARTMENT - RANDOLPH Sheldon hangs up stunned. Nora walks in holding the daily
NORA: Congratulations on your little ice What are you talking about?
SHELDON: What are you talking about?
NORA: It didn't take you long to sell out, did it?
NORA: What happened to your precious integrity? Or was that just part of your dog and pony act.
BUCKS.": CUT TO:
SHELDON: Burke, I never agreed to do an ice Shel, do you know what kind of cash we'll take in between the gate and concessions? A venture like this gets you money and muscle. Times twenty.
BURKE: Shel, do you know what kind of cash we'll take in between the gate and concessions? A venture like this gets you money and muscle. Times twenty.
SHELDON: Ice shows represent everything I'm against. They're mindless spectacles whose main purpose is to sell overpriced sugar-water and cheap plastic toys that splinter in a kid's mouth on the ride home.
BURKE: Look, I know you got this fetish for ethics, but now's not the time to fly that kite. No one's ever refused a shot at an ice show.
SHELDON: Until now. Smoochy doesn't sell out, Burke. You should be proud of that. Proud that you represent a client who paves driveways, not paints them over.
BURKE: I'm thrilled, Shel. Knocked out.
SHELDON: I'll have a pineapple juice,
SANDY: Pineapple? What happened to orange juice?
SHELDON: I'm feeling feisty tonight.
SMOOCHY: Boy, wasn't that fun? In an awkward kind of way? Anyhoo, how 'bout a big round of applause for the newest member of the Smoochyland Band. former heavyweight contender, Spinner
SPINNER: Shit. Sorry.
SPINNER: Did I do good, Sheldon, huh? Did I do good?
SHELDON: Yeah, that was great, Spinner. Just watch your elbow next time. Pinky's probably gonna lose that Okey doke. I'm gonna go get drunk
SPINNER: Okey doke. I'm gonna go get drunk
NORA: Nice job. Casting the show with mental patients, I like that.
SHELDON: ( snapping ) He is not a mental patient. He's an ex-boxer and nightclub owner who happens to have the sweet innocent brian of a five-year-old!
NORA: Excuse me for not making the
MERV: Hi there.
SHELDON: A limo pulls up in front of them. Merv opens the back
MERV: Get in.
SHELDON: Thanks anyway, but I'm going
MERV: Humor me, rhino.
MERV: Merv Green, Sheldon. It's a pleasure to meet you.
SHELDON: If you're hoping for an autograph, the gun's a bit much. The whole 'catch more flies with honey' thing it really holds water.
MERV: Sheldon, I represent the Parade of Hope Foundation. Maybe you've heard of us.
SHELDON: You raise money to build children's hospitals, right?
MERV: We've been known to add a brick or two, sure.
MERV: Sheldon, let me get right to the point there's talk on the street that you're pulling out of the ice show. Is that true?
SHELDON: ( big sigh ) You know, I never agreed to an ice show, nor would I ever agree to do an ice show, and let me add that none of this is your concern, ( shakes his head ) Listen carefully, son: Parade of Hope has sponsored every Kidnet ice show since 1964. We take a piece off the top and everybody walks away happy. So let's not buck history.
MERV: Listen carefully, son: Parade of Hope has sponsored every Kidnet ice show since 1964. We take a piece off the top and everybody walks away happy. So let's not buck history.
SHELDON: Well, I appreciate the offer, but for the gazillionth time, I'm not doing an ice show, so we have nothing to discuss. Now, if you'll just pull over, I'll get out and we'll say our toodley-dos. Far corner, please.
MERV: Allow me to be less murky. Starting tomorrow, Smoochy the Rhino raises his baton for Parade of Hope. Benefits, banquets, fund-raisers, I want it all. Pull over, Terry.
MERV: And as far as the ice show goes. I recommend you start shopping for skates.
SHELDON: This is unacceptable, Burke! I'm calling the authorities.
SHELDON: I was threatened by an organization that's supposed to help children! What kind of world is this?
NORA: May I come in?
SHELDON: Nora enters. She seems a little wobbly. Sheldon notices she's holding a pint of whiskey.
SHELDON: Uh. are you okay?
NORA: I'm getting drunk and I'm not used to it.
SHELDON: Oh. Well, not to make you feel worse, but with alcohol you're also consuming empty calories.
NORA: It's just that. I want to apologize, actually. And on those rare occasions when I feel the need to apologize for something, it helps if I'm, you know. shit- Wow. I'm honored.
SHELDON: Wow. I'm honored.
SHELDON: Why don't we get some air? I. I may have been a little harsh when we spoke the other day. A little out of line.
NORA: I. I may have been a little harsh when we spoke the other day. A little out of line.
SHELDON: Well, it wasn't as bad as the week before when you called me a pasty- faced, no-talent hack.
NORA: Yes, that was probably insensitive as well. I heard you're not doing the ice show. I find that. incredibly admirable. Why didn't you tell I guess I didn't want to spoil your fun. You look so content when you're berating me.
SHELDON: I guess I didn't want to spoil your fun. You look so content when you're berating me.
NORA: I'm afraid I have become a bit hardened over the years. Sincerity's an easy disguise in this business. It's hard to know who's on the level.
SHELDON: Believe me, I'm learning that more and more every day. 'Sometimes light is really dark, Sometimes crows can sing like Sometimes Winter feels like Don't think you know everything.'
NORA: ( in disbelief ) 'Rickets the Hippo'?
SHELDON: You remember Rickets?
NORA: That was my favorite show when I was a kid. Rickets was the one face I knew I could trust.
SHELDON: That's how I felt! Rickets had real depth. He was my inspiration for Smoochy.
NORA: Really? He was my inspiration to work in children's television.
SHELDON: I can't believe it. I never met anyone who even remembers Rickets. Do you remember the Klunky-Wunky Remember it? I did it at my first
NORA: Remember it? I did it at my first
SHELDON: I'm sorry. That was a mistake, right? I didn't mean for that to
NORA: ( as they kiss ) You're not full of shit like all the others, are you?
SHELDON: No, no.
NORA: ( as they kiss ) You're for real, right?
SHELDON: Yes, yes.
NORA: ( through the kisses ) I mean, I couldn't tell. First I thought it was an act. and then I just thought you were a simp or Shhh. you don't have to
SHELDON: Shhh. you don't have to
NORA: I should go.
SHELDON: Nora exits the balcony and collects her coat and purse.
SHELDON: What's wrong? Is it the whiskey? If you have to throw up, be my guest. Anywhere you like.
NORA: It's just getting late.
NORA: Better get that. Good night.
SHELDON: ANGELO'S APARTMENT We GO TO a HORIZONTAL SPLIT-SCREEN. Randolph is on the BOTTOM HALF. He lies on his bed in Angelo's apartment wearing a bathrobe with a towel wrapped around his head. His head dangles off the bed as he talks on the phone. The SHOT is reminiscent of Bye Bye Birdie.
ANGELO'S APARTMENT: We GO TO a HORIZONTAL SPLIT-SCREEN. Randolph is on the BOTTOM HALF. He lies on his bed in Angelo's apartment wearing a bathrobe with a towel wrapped around his head. His head dangles off the bed as he talks on the phone. The SHOT is reminiscent of Bye Bye Birdie.
RANDOLPH: Hello, Mr. Mopes? My name is Benjamin Kunklepeck and I'm calling on behalf of 'Parents for Decency in Children's Television,' perhaps you've heard of us?
SHELDON: No, but I like where you're coming from. It's an issue very close to my heart. Why just yesterday I was commenting
RANDOLPH: Sir, we're having a banquet tomorrow and we'd be honored to have you perform for us. We would also like to present you with a plaque for your ongoing commitment to children's television. The presenter will be a young orphan with mild asthma. Can you attend?
RANDOLPH: Don't be silly. The chance to have Smoochy the Rhino perform at our little soiree? I'd carry you piggy-back through a bed of hot rusty glass if I had to.
SHELDON: Well, it's always a pleasure to help out a worthy cause. And believe me, I've learned lately that it's not all sunshine and daffodils in the land of non- I just looove your show, by the way. It's such a refreshing change of pace from that dreadful embezzler. what's his name again? Rainbow something or Yes. Rainbow Randolph. What a scoundrel! He's probably gay too.
RANDOLPH: I just looove your show, by the way. It's such a refreshing change of pace from that dreadful embezzler. what's his name again? Rainbow something or Yes. Rainbow Randolph. What a scoundrel! He's probably gay too.
SHELDON: Yes. Rainbow Randolph. What a scoundrel! He's probably gay too.
RANDOLPH: Yes. Rainbow Randolph. What a scoundrel! He's probably gay too.
SHELDON: Oh, I don't know. I feel sorry for him, actually. He obviously has problems or issues that he needs to sort out.
RANDOLPH: ( getting frustrated ) Yeah, yeah, yeah, but don't you take particular glee in that you basically stole his time slot? Helped shovel dirt onto his miserable corpse, as it were?
SHELDON: No, I would never take pleasure in someone's downfall. You know the old expression about walking a mile in another man's shoes? Well, that really holds water. Just try to imagine
RANDOLPH: ( snapping ) Come on, he's a fucking asshole! You hate him! Admit it!
SHELDON: ( uncomfortable ) Uh. can we listen to the radio?
RANDOLPH: Okay, they're ready for you!
SHELDON: I gotta say, this is a first I never performed in a tractor parts warehouse before.
RANDOLPH: Well, we like to do these things no-frills. It's all about the Amen to that.
SHELDON: Amen to that.
RANDOLPH: Knock 'em dead, kid!
SMOOCHY: 'Well, how-do-you-do, my good friends! How do-you-do, my pals! It's so nice to see good friends! Sing along with me now! How do you do, my good '
OMITTED: INT. WAREHOUSE - SHELDON'S POV Several hundred men in Nazi uniforms in a warehouse draped in swastikas. They all start chanting:
NAZIS: Heil Smoochy! Heil Smoochy! Heil
SHELDON: It's my sincere hope that I'm dreaming right now, but in the event that I'm not. what's the deal with the swastikas?
LEAD COP: This is an unlawful assembly, you kraut sons-a-bitches! You're all under arrest!
REPORTER #1: Are you officially a member of the Aryan Brotherhood, Sheldon?
REPORTER #2: Is it true you consider Adolph Hitler your personal hero?
REPORTER #3: Do you think associating with neo- Nazis might adversely affect your How does it feel to be a hate- filled racist scumbag?
REPORTER #4: How does it feel to be a hate- filled racist scumbag?
SHELDON: This is a mix-up! I'm innocent! I don't hate anyone!
REPORTER #4: Does that mean you don't hate Wait! I didn't say that! I
SHELDON: Wait! I didn't say that! I
MONTAGE: EXT. TIMES SQUARE - NIGHT The squad car drives through Times Square. The headlines on the zipper marquee GLIDE THROUGH the FRAME: "Smoochy the Rhino Arrested at Nazi Rally. Cops Raid Warehouse During Rhino's Performance. Aryan Brotherhood Declares Smoochy 'One of us.'. President Condemns 'Smoochy the INT. SQUAD CAR - CONTINUOUS ACTION Sheldon stares out the window as the dark city passes by. We SLOWLY MOVE IN ON his eyes as we.
POLICE PRECINCT: Sheldon is fingerprinted and photographed.
AFRICAN JUNGLE: STOCK FOOTAGE of a wild rhinoceros being shot by hunters.
STUDIO C: Smoochy's Magic Jungle is dismantled.
BLACK LIMBO: The Smoochy costume is in flames. It slowly burns to EXT. KIDNET BUILDING - LOBBY - DAY The Kidnet CEO stands before a cluster of reporters and network cameras. We can see the Times Square zipper marquee THROUGH the glass doors behind him. Headlines read: "Congressional Committee Probes Nazi Ties to Kid Biz". "Smoochy Photos Removed From City Elementary Schools". "Jewish Groups Plan 'Day of Outrage'". "Rhino in Bronx Zoo Pelted With Eggs".
CEO: Here at Kidnet, Smoochy the Rhino is now Smoochy the Ghost. We have excised that particular malignancy from our network and will seek out a suitable replacement.
RANDOLPH: Hi there, poochy!
RANDOLPH: Well, aren't you the cutest little boo-boo in the world!
RANDOLPH: For you, my dear! May you live to be a hundred!
RANDOLPH: EXT. KIDNET BUILDING - NIGHT Nora exits the revolving door of the Kidnet building and heads down Broadway. Sheldon pops out from a store front. He's wearing a knit cap and sunglasses to disguise himself.
SHELDON: I have to talk to you.
NORA: We have nothing to talk about.
SHELDON: Don't tell me you believe what they're saying!
NORA: I don't have to believe anyone. The picture in the paper said it all. No one forced you to perform at that rally.
SHELDON: Perform? I barely sang one song.
NORA: Well maybe next time you'll do a longer set.
SHELDON: Nora, I had no idea that was a Nazi function. None whatsoever!
NORA: Funny, you'd think the fifty-foot swastika you were standing in front of might've given you a The papers are blowing that out of proportion. It was nowhere near that big.
SHELDON: The papers are blowing that out of proportion. It was nowhere near that big.
NORA: Look, the fact of the matter is, I don't know you, okay? Not really. So don't expect me to go out on an emotional limb here.
SHELDON: But what about the balcony? What about the Klunky-Wunky dance?
NORA: I was drunk. Don't read too much into it.
OLD VAGRANT: If you're lookin' to get a cup of juice, the well's dried up, son. City shut her down. Bastards'll put a new pair of tits on the Statue of Liberty, but they won't help a poor hophead.
OLD VAGRANT: Just once I wish I had a little clout. You know? I'd set things straight in this town, believe me. Hell of a world.
SHELDON: ( to himself ) Hell of a world.
CHICK: Look, Stokes, let's cut the bullshit. We want Takashi in that Smoochy slot and we're willing to do whatever it takes to get it.
STOKES: Pardon me for saying this, but for a non-resident of this country, you speak impeccable English.
CHICK: I'm originally from Teaneck.
STOKES: We own every hair on this bastard's head and we're willing to share a few strands. if you get my drift.
CHICK: We own every hair on this bastard's head and we're willing to share a few strands. if you get my drift.
STOKES: Well, it's not that simple. I have an executive board to answer to. I wish I could just snap my fingers and make a deal but
CHICK: You mean like this?
STOKES: Oh my. And what is this on my Two hundred grand in a Louis Vuitton duffle bag. Get our boy the slot and we'll round it off to a million. And you can keep the You're dealing with an honorable culture, Frank. We know how to play ball.
CHICK: Two hundred grand in a Louis Vuitton duffle bag. Get our boy the slot and we'll round it off to a million. And you can keep the You're dealing with an honorable culture, Frank. We know how to play ball.
CHICK: You're dealing with an honorable culture, Frank. We know how to play ball.
STOKES: Gentlemen, I suddenly feel invigorated and full of hope.
RANDOLPH: Hiya, cutie!
RANDOLPH: So here's the good news: Yes, I'll be happy to end my sabbatical and return to my old slot. I know you and Frank are in a bind, so I'll start Monday. Call wardrobe, call props, tell 'em the R man is back and he's ready to start whistlin' dem happy tunes for da little chillens.
RANDOLPH: Ahhh. Who do ya gotta blow to get a Scotch around here?
NORA: You've got three seconds to pry your ass off my couch and get out.
RANDOLPH: Dammit, Nora! The rhino's gone! You need that slot filled and I'm ready to reclaim what's rightfully mine.
NORA: Just in case you forgot, you're a criminal and a scumbag.
RANDOLPH: Okay, so maybe I commandeered a stray shekel or two. Big deal! Compared to what Smoochy did that's like jerking off in the Where do you shop?
NORA: Where do you shop?
RANDOLPH: Come on. Have you lost all affection for me? After what we once had?
NORA: That was a long time ago. I was young and stupid.
RANDOLPH: Why we broke up I'll never know.
NORA: You turned into an asshole and I didn't love you.
RANDOLPH: We could've worked through all
RANDOLPH: Damn it, Nora! The public is clamoring for me! I'm a fucking patriot! Mopes is a Nazi! He's evil! He's probably even gay! You should've seen the way he was checking me out in the car!
NORA: ( suddenly suspicious ) What does that mean?
RANDOLPH: What does what mean?
NORA: You said he was checking you out in the car. What car?
RANDOLPH: No. it's just a vibe! A Nazi homosexual vibe! It emanates from the television! The whole Smoochy costume. with the erect horn. I mean, what's that all about?
NORA: You're talking awfully fast, I still love you! Let's go on a Were you at that rally? Tell me! Did you have something to do with
RANDOLPH: I still love you! Let's go on a Were you at that rally? Tell me! Did you have something to do with
NORA: Were you at that rally? Tell me! Did you have something to do with
NORA: Did you set Sheldon up?
RANDOLPH: You know, now I remember why we broke up. Always with the accusations. Bitch, bitch,
TOMMY: What's wrong, kid? The mayor of Patterson's here with his wife. They wanna meet ya.
SPINNER: I don't wanna meet no one. I miss Smoochy! He never woulda done the things they say he done. He ain't no Nazi. Someone's making stuff up. I just know it, Tommy. Someone's making stuff up!
SPINNER: I want Smoochy back! I want to be on TV again! I want to play my
NORA: Hi, Tommy. Hi, Spinner. Has Burke been in tonight?
TOMMY: Haven't seen him.
NORA: Damn it.
TOMMY: Something I can help you with?
NORA: I have to talk to him. It's about
SPINNER: Sheldon? What about Sheldon?
RANDOLPH: I'm trying to sleep, asshole! Read the fucking meter some other
TOMMY: You wanna tell me about the rhino?
RANDOLPH: Hey, this is private property, creep! And you're trespassing!
TOMMY: Danny, go give Mr. Smiley a little back rub.
REPORTER #1: How does it feel to be voted the most hated man in America, In a country like this, where your average citizen is a fuckin' Neanderthal, I wear it as a badge of What about Ms. Bishop's charge that you have an unhealthy obsession with Sheldon Mopes?
RANDOLPH: In a country like this, where your average citizen is a fuckin' Neanderthal, I wear it as a badge of What about Ms. Bishop's charge that you have an unhealthy obsession with Sheldon Mopes?
REPORTER #2: What about Ms. Bishop's charge that you have an unhealthy obsession with Sheldon Mopes?
RANDOLPH: Listen, I barely know that broad. She's a wacko. An opportunist. I'm the most accused man since Jimmy Hoffa.
RANDOLPH: ( on verge of tears ) That was unfair! Who threw that? That was mean and uncalled for!
LAWYER: My client is not answering any more questions. Between his dwindling cash flow and mounting legal bills he's sinking into a deep psychotic depression. Please stop antagonizing him. Thank you.
SHELDON: ( to Nora ) I wouldn't be back here if it wasn't for you.
NORA: I'm just sorry I didn't believe you. that I got swept up in the frenzy of anti-Smoochyism.
SHELDON: Well, this town's a house of mirrors sometimes. It's hard to know what you're looking at. They're ready for you, Sheldon.
STAGEHAND: They're ready for you, Sheldon.
SMOOCHY: Thank you. It's good to be back. You know, kids, sometimes life in the jungle can be unfair. A place where nice guys don't just finish last. they get their heads cut
SMOOCHY: That pretty world you think you know is just props and scenery. Lollipop trees with roots in
SMOOCHY: So look around you, boys and girls. Every day. Be diligent! Stand strong! As the old proverb says: Beat a dog one time too many and you get a wolf! Let's start howling! Howl for me, boys and girls!
SMOOCHY: Okay, I just wanted to get that off my chest. Who wants to do the
OMITTED: INT. ANGELO'S APARTMENT - NIGHT Randolph sits in front of the TELEVISION in a daze. He's wearing a ratty bathrobe and absentmindedly tosses cheese curls onto the floor from a bag on his lap. ON the TV, an "Entertainment Tonight"-type show with two perky hosts is covering Smoochy's return to the airwaves. The hosts, Tara and Hunter show Smoochy's dynamic entrance and the standing ovation he got during the taping that day.
RANDOLPH: ( quietly to himself ) Bad. very bad. too much for brain. pressure building. ears ringing. eyes burning. contempt overflowing.
RANDOLPH: I hate you! I fucking hate you!!! You devil-horned mind fucker! Die, die, die!!
ANGELO: What are you doing?! That's a Look at this place!
ANGELO: That's it! I want you out of Where am I supposed to go?
RANDOLPH: ( suddenly scared ) Where am I supposed to go?
ANGELO: I don't care!
SHELDON: Easy, Spinner. Watch the ribs, I missed you so much!
SPINNER: I missed you so much!
SHELDON: I missed you too, champ.
SPINNER: I've been practicing and practicing and I got real good, Sheldon. Real good! Wanna see me march?
SPINNER: Wanna see me march?
SHELDON: Sure, why not.
BURKE: So you were saying you had some good news?
SHELDON: Yes. Some very good news. After giving it a lot of thought. I've decided to do the ice show.
BURKE: Finally! I got me a bar mitzvah boy. Today you are a man!
SHELDON: I realize now it's a sin to waste your power.
BURKE: Like they say, rock bottom's a college education.
SHELDON: But here's the really good news: I'm doing it myself. No sponsors, no vendors, no crooks. Not one dirty hand will touch this. Not one person will make a dollar off these kids. Smoochy on Ice will be a study in purity.
SHELDON: As far as food concessions go, I'll supply the refreshments. For free. Low sodium, whole wheat pretzels and apple slices. Healthy stuff. Now are you ready for the best part?
BURKE: I'm holding my breath.
SHELDON: All profits from ticket sales will be used to built a state-of-the- art methadone clinic in Coney
SHELDON: I'm not just talking a run-of-the- mill clinic. I'm going to build a methadone palace. A place where men and women can withdraw in Sheldon, you can't do an ice show and cut out the vendors. And more importantly, you can't cut out the Parade of Hope. It's suicide.
BURKE: Sheldon, you can't do an ice show and cut out the vendors. And more importantly, you can't cut out the Parade of Hope. It's suicide.
SHELDON: You always told me, when you've got muscles you make the rules. Well, I'm feeling pretty strong right now.
SHELDON: All this time I was letting the business use me. Well, I think it's time I start using the business. I've got my clout back and I'm not gonna waste it this time. Take care of it, Burke.
TOMMY: Shel, you gotta help me out. He bangs that goddamn thing from morning till night. I got a headache that goes from my eyes to my ass.
SHELDON: Whatever I can do, Tommy, just say it. You know I love Spinner. And I owe you.
TOMMY: Give the boy something else to do on the show. Anything. Just as long as it don't clang, chime or honk.
DAY: frightened. There's a gun to his temple.
WIDER: Chick, the Asian representative of Takashi, holds a revolver on Stokes. His cohorts, Sambo and Tobi, stand
CHICK: I don't like complications, Frank. You got one week to get Takashi that slot or you're gonna be shakin' hands with Buddha.
STOKES: Don't you understand? My hands are tied. The rhino's been exonerated. The show's more popular than ever.
CHICK: ( to Sambo and Tobi ) Okay, boys, chop him up, bag him and dump him in the woods.
STOKES: All right! I'll take care of it! I just need time!
CHICK: One week, Jeeves. Got that? Or I get a blender and make an Orange Julius with your feet.
MAN: Save the rhino! Before it's too late! Make a donation! Save the Hey, mister, ya wanna help save the rhino?
RANDOLPH: I'm the one who needs to be saved! Me. I'm broke! I lost my lawyer! My only friend kicked me out! I'm a fucking peanut shell in the shape of a man! Save the Rainbow! Save the Rainbow! Save the Rainbow!
MAN: Help! Someone call a cop!
STOKES: Your client is suffocating me. To make matters worse, he's caused me to veer into a hazardous situation. A situation that otherwise could have a very happy ending.
BURKE: Tell me more about the Asians.
STOKES: They're ruthless. Unwavering. Unprincipled. And best of all, they know how the game is played. They respect our delicate ecosystem of mutual benefit.
STOKES: I'd bring you in on this, Burke. You'd be my partner on the Takashi deal. Split down the middle. We have an opportunity to get back on track here. Back to the way it The good old days.
BURKE: The good old days.
STOKES: The two men look at each other as thoughts pass silently between them.
BURKE: This is very sticky ground we're about to walk on.
STOKES: Well, you're used to a little glue on your shoes.
BURKE: Let me poke around. Sift through the possibilities.
OMITTED: EXT. ALLEY OFF ND STREET - THEATER STAGE DOOR - A slender young man in a Peter Pan costume in being held by a big thug as another thug beats him up. A girl dressed as Tinkerbell ( also being restrained ) looks on in horror. Merv Green ( Parade of Hope ) steps INTO FRAME.
EVENING: A slender young man in a Peter Pan costume in being held by a big thug as another thug beats him up. A girl dressed as Tinkerbell ( also being restrained ) looks on in horror. Merv Green ( Parade of Hope ) steps INTO FRAME.
MERV: This is what happens to guys who keep secrets, Johnny.
JOHNNY: I'll give you the rest next week! I promise!
MERV: It's not me you're fucking over, it's sick kids. You got something against sick kids, Johnny?
JOHNNY: No! I love sick kids!
MERV: And you tell that fat producer of yours, if he ever gives me a low head count again, he'll lose the other thumb.
BURKE: Merv Green. How's tricks, kid?
MERV: Well, if it ain't smilin' Burke. Whose bones are you pickin' today?
BURKE: ( chuckles ) You got a minute, pally?
OMITTED: EXT. ND STREET - MOMENTS LATER Burke and Merv walk along 42nd Street. A poster advertises Peter Pan "Sponsored by Parade of Hope Giving Children the Gift of Promise!" Merv's thugs trail behind.
MERV: No one freezes me out of an ice show. No one. I don't care how many fucking clinics he's trying to save.
BURKE: Look, I'm chokin' on the same bone as you.
MERV: If you're trying to aggravate me, you're doing a hell of a job.
BURKE: I'm not here to aggravate, just educate. I think Mopes might be talking to people he shouldn't be talking to.
MERV: That's an ugly string of words.
BURKE: He's got it in his head that he's gonna clean up the way we do Truthfully? I wouldn't be surprised if he's wearing a wire.
BURKE: Jesus, I got a thing across town.
BURKE: Let's keep talking, Merv. There's oughta be some kind of solution. Don't you think?
WIDER: Randolph stands on the table directly in front of the Kidnet Building. He raises the megaphone to his mouth.
RANDOLPH: Attention, New Yorkers! You are about to hear a shocking story of injustice!
WIDER: Randolph stands on the table directly in front of the Kidnet Building.
RANDOLPH: I urge you to listen! It has a surprise ending you won't want to miss!
RANDOLPH: It's the story of a venomous rhino and his aggressive campaign to slander, vilify, defame, denigrate and villainize my good name! But one thing he can't do, is take my life from me. No, friends, only I have the power to do that!
RANDOLPH: This is what Smoochy has done to me! He's brought me to this! I can no longer live in a world where the innocent suffer and the wicked thrive! Where is God??!!
RANDOLPH: Where is God??!!
RANDOLPH: I'm sorry to do this, people. Don't try to talk me out of it.
RANDOLPH: Our guest of honor will be here any moment! This is for his eyes! For his conscience. He'll have to live with this imagine for the rest of his miserable life!
SMOOCHY: ( to driver ) Take it from me, Lester. Use your power. Don't squander it build with it.
LESTER: Sound advice, Mr. Mopes. If I ever get any power I'll give that a whirl. Hey, what's going on up there?
SMOOCHY: ( casually ) Looks like a street performer of some sort.
RANDOLPH: This is it, folks! It's showtime! I'm sorry to do this, but he's left me no choice!
RANDOLPH: Shut up, you hillbilly assholes! You're borough trash! Go back to your huts across the river!
RANDOLPH: Fuck you! Fuck all you people! I was the last of the Mohicans! You'll never see another Rainbow Randolph in this lifetime! You had me and you blew it! All of
RANDOLPH: This if for you, Smoochy! Remember this! As long as you live, remember this image! You did this to me! Whatcha doin', Rainbow Randolph?
LITTLE GIRL: Whatcha doin', Rainbow Randolph?
CROWD: ( CONTINUED )
OVERHEAD SHOT: Randolph drops to his knees on the table, looks skyward, and screams.
RANDOLPH: What does it all mean??!!
SPINNER: What do you mean I can't play the cowbell no more?
WIDER: Sheldon gently tries to break the news to Spinner who's on the verge of tears.
SHELDON: You're too talented for the cowbell, Spinner. Cowbells are for babies.
SPINNER: ( a little angry ) I ain't no baby!
SHELDON: That's right. You're a fully grown man. With whiskers. and scars. the whole sha-bang. That's why you deserve a bigger role on the show. A more important role.
KIDS: 'Stepdads are people too/ They have bad days, like we all do/ Be patient and help them through/ Stepdads are people too.'
SMOOCHY: ( singing ) . 'So three cheers for the man that I proudly call Stan. He's not quite a dad or a brother. Yes, he gets cross, but still he's the boss. And besides he takes care of my mother!'
SMOOCHY: Remember, kids. First impressions, good or bad, are not always what they seem. Just like a new puppy, new dads need to adjust to their surroundings. So give 'em time! But always remember. if he becomes abusive to you or Mommy. what are the magic numbers?
SMOOCHY: The Smoochyland Band plays a little fanfare.
SMOOCHY: And now, boys and girls, I have a special surprise. I'd like to introduce the newest member of the Magic Jungle. my cousin. Moochy the Rhino!
SMOOCHY: Howdy, Moochy! Welcome to the Jungle! You wanna say howdy to the kids?
SMOOCHY: My name is Moochy.
SPINNER: My name is Moochy.
SMOOCHY: That's right. We've established Sheldon, this costume's makin' my nuts itch.
SPINNER: ( leaning into Sheldon ) Sheldon, this costume's makin' my nuts itch.
SPINNER: That was fun! Was it bad when I done that thing, where I tripped and knocked over the Flamingo and then he knocked over the cameraman and then those lights fell down on that lady's head?
SHELDON: It's fine, Spinner. We'll edit it out. But tomorrow in rehearsal we're gonna work on a new thing called 'the importance of hitting your mark.'
SPINNER: Great! I get to hit something!
NORA: I read about the ice show.
SHELDON: I read about the ice show.
NORA: I read about the ice show.
SHELDON: Yeah, the papers seem to be really covering it.
NORA: I think it's great. What you're doing for that clinic.
SHELDON: She nods.
NORA: I just need some clarification.
SHELDON: Don't worry. Spinner just needs a little more rehearsal. I'll get him there.
NORA: No I mean about us.
NORA: Ever since you've been back I just feel like there's something that's not connecting.
SHELDON: I guess I'm still readjusting a little. Like a guy who's come back from the war. Not that I'd equate my misfortune with the brave men and women who protect us overseas.
NORA: I just thought we were on our way to something. granted, my mistaken belief that you had ties to Neo-Nazis might have put a damper on our relationship, but I'm sorry for
WIDE: An enraged Merv Green glares at his henchmen, Henry and
MERV: How could you hit the wrong Who knew Smoochy had a cousin Moochy? They look fucking Smoochy is bright orange, Moochy is burnt rust! Read the papers! Do I gotta take you back to fucking kindergarten?
HENRY: Who knew Smoochy had a cousin Moochy? They look fucking Smoochy is bright orange, Moochy is burnt rust! Read the papers! Do I gotta take you back to fucking kindergarten?
MERV: Smoochy is bright orange, Moochy is burnt rust! Read the papers! Do I gotta take you back to fucking kindergarten?
MITCH: All you said was 'hit the rhino.' You never specified the color. I'm not taking the blame for this
MERV: I'm not through with you yet, rhino! Your time will fucking Ellie, over here.
SHELDON: It's my fault. He'd still be alive if it wasn't for me. He would have been so proud to be in the ice show.
NORA: There was nothing you could have done. Don't torture yourself.
SHELDON: I'm sorry, Spinner. I'm so sorry.
TOMMY: He really loved you, Shel. And this I guarantee that fucking Randolph has seen his last rainbow. We're gonna find him, cut off his balls, and shove 'em up his ass.
SHELDON: Maybe you better leave it to the They won't do the ball thing. It's against procedure.
DANNY: They won't do the ball thing. It's against procedure.
TOMMY: Don't forget that hit was meant for you, Shel. So from now on, everywhere you go, we go.
SHELDON: That's okay, Tommy. I'll be fine.
TOMMY: Fine, nothin'. And as Christ is my witness, no one's touchin' a hair on your fuckin' head. Spinner would have wanted it that
TOMMY: ( to the boys ) Alright, boys, let's get shit- faced. For Spin.
SHELDON: Didn't Rickets the Hippo have a song about death?
NORA: 'The Last Nappy Time.' It gave me a lot of comfort when my mother 'When doggies stop barking And fish cease to swim And Grandpa lays silent, from his Sadness will find you But soon you'll feel fine.'
OMITTED: EXT. TIMES SQUARE - NIGHT The news zipper in Times Square glides through the night air: "MANHUNT UNDERWAY FOR RAINBOW RANDOLPH. SUSPECTED
RANDOLPH: I didn't do it! I know you're still mad at me, but you gotta believe me.
RANDOLPH: Mastermind? I can barely figure out how to unzip my pants these days. Just taking a piss is a logistical nightmare.
ACTION: Inside the massive dormant factory, rats scurry around and pigeons occasionally fly from window sill to window sill. A makeshift living area has been set up in the middle of it all a chair, lamp, small table, hot plate, etc. Randolph lays on the dilapidated conveyor belt, huddled under a blanket. Angelo enters the factory through a rusty door, carrying Randolph sits up on the conveyor belt, blanket draped over his shoulders. He's a physical and emotional wreck.
ANGELO: It's heatin' up out there. Every cop in New York is looking for you. And Tommy Cotter's boys are combin' the streets. You're gonna have to stay put for a while.
RANDOLPH: I was an altar boy once. Did you know that? I wanted to be a priest. Do you believe in angels, There was a little angel in pigtails. She was the only one who cared about me. She saved my
ANGELO: There was a little angel in pigtails. She was the only one who cared about me. She saved my
RANDOLPH: There was a little angel in pigtails. She was the only one who cared about me. She saved my
ANGELO: You didn't want to kill yourself, Randy. You know that.
RANDOLPH: Perhaps it's time to heal. To accept the fact that Smoochy has won and gracefully march forward. True, I'm currently wanted for a murder I didn't commit. But I have faith. Faith that justice will prevail.
ANGELO: Now you're talkin', kid. This is a big step. I'm proud of you.
RANDOLPH: Did you bring lunch?
ANGELO: Chicken and stars?
RANDOLPH: Chicken and stars?
ANGELO: Just like you asked for.
RANDOLPH: Can I have some, please?
ANGELO: For a smile.
ANGELO: Atta boy.
ANGELO: Here, I got you some crossword puzzles and stuff to read.
ANGELO: You okay? Randy?
RANDOLPH: Angelo drops the soup. Birds in the factory flutter from the rafters.
TOMMY: Big news, Shel.
SHELDON: What's that?
TOMMY: It wasn't Smiley who killed Spinner. It was Parade of Hope.
NORA: Merv Green?
SHELDON: Are you sure? The cops have tons of evidence on Randolph.
TOMMY: We did our own investigation. Cousin Ian from down at the morgue. you met him at the
IAN: See the neck? Snapped like a twig. Animals. Parade of Hope's calling card. When they do a guy, they like to sign the tab.
TOMMY: What's that guy's name over there? Yeah, Merv Green.
LEON: Yeah, Merv Green.
TOMMY: This was one time they shoulda left the tab blank.
NORA: I knew Merv Green was a scumbag from the day he grabbed my ass at a 'Feed the Children' benefit.
SHELDON: Well, God help those guys now. They're gonna get a first-class ride through the criminal justice system, and I'm buying the It's all taken care of, Shel.
TOMMY: It's all taken care of, Shel.
SHELDON: What does that mean?
MERV: It was a mistake! An honest mistake! All I'm trying to do is help children.
TOMMY: You like kids, huh?
MERV: Yes! Of course!
TOMMY: So you must know a few fairy tales. Danny, tell him the one about the worthless prick who gets his head chopped off.
TOMMY: Now you know why charities go under sometimes.
SHELDON: Do we really need to hear this? I don't want to hear this.
JIMMY: A clean cut.
SHELDON: Okay, got it.
ROY: And then we took his head and
SHELDON: Thank you! Specifics about his head are superfluous at this
NORA: ( attitude ) Can I help you with something?
CHICK: Yeah, honey, you can help us with something.
CHICK: You tell that boss of yours he better take care of the rhino problem. In my culture we honor deals or invite consequences.
NORA: I don't know what you're talking about and your cologne's making me nauseous. Other than that, you're great company.
CHICK: Spicy little thing, isn't she?
CHICK: Takashi gets that time slot. You hear me, girly? Tell that boss of yours we'll kill everyone at this fucking network if we have to. Starting with the pretty ones.
CHICK: Auf Wiedersehen, honey.
NORA: It's Stokes. He's behind the whole thing! He cut some kind of deal for the Smoochy slot!
SHELDON: What are you talking about?
NORA: He wants you out so he can put Takashi in!
SHELDON: Who's Takashi?
NORA: Jesus, Sheldon! Don't you ever pick up a copy of International Performer? He's the hottest kid show host from Asia.
RANDOLPH: Ah! How very cozy. Like two logs in a little bonfire. All we need is a few sticks and some wienies.
RANDOLPH: I had her before you! Pachyderm! I was in love with her! In love! And you snatched her away! Like a common thief! You're the bad guy! Not me! He's the bad guy, Nora. He's incapable of understanding the love we once had! Tender, yet passionate. Old-fashioned, yet experimental. Tell him about a few of our experiments, Nora! Tell him!
SHELDON: ( to Nora ) Is this true? Please tell me it's just the confused ramblings of a diseased mind.
SHELDON: Holy mother of Toledo. When exactly were you planning to let me know about this?!
NORA: ( turns to Sheldon ) Listen, there was a time and I'm not proud of this but there was a time when I was a bit of a. kiddie-host groupie.
RANDOLPH: You're just another action figure for her collection!
NORA: That's not fair!
RANDOLPH: Tell him about Jingle Jackson!
SHELDON: You dated Jingle Jackson?
RANDOLPH: The bells turned her on. Hey, tell him about Jumbo Johnny! There's a tale for ya! A whale of a tale!
SHELDON: Oh good Lord in Heaven.
NORA: Look, what I did before I met you is none of your business.
RANDOLPH: Shut up! Both of you! This is my show!
RANDOLPH: Do you fully understand the power of a condemned man? Do you? I'm already wanted for one murder, why should I give a flaming horse's twat if I commit two more?
SHELDON: I. uh. read once that the best way to diffuse a tense situation is with a little humor. To that end, would you like to hear a funny joke?
RANDOLPH: ( rolling his eyes ) Oh, please. Go blow yourself, ( waves gun again ) Fix me a beverage, woman. Make me one of those drinks that used to make us all warm and fuzzy before bouncy-bouncy time!
NORA: Fix it yourself, asshole.
RANDOLPH: ( points to gun ) Remember, I have Mr. Boomy.
SHELDON: I'm telling you, you'd love this joke. It revolves around Santa Claus and the Easter Bunny getting into a fender bender.
RANDOLPH: ( to Sheldon ) You know, when I lived here I used to have a big painting above the fireplace. A naked chick holding a pumpkin. It was very tasteful. No bush.
NORA: Look, Randolph. We know it wasn't you who killed Spinner.
SHELDON: We'll go to the police, first thing tomorrow. straighten everything out.
RANDOLPH: Oh! Goody-goody gumdrops! Vodka straight up is fine, sugar
RANDOLPH: Did you put on a little weight, honey? That's okay, you're still a hot little brood mare. I bet you miss the sweet sting of my riding crop. Giddy up, pony!
RANDOLPH: ( to tune of 'Rainbow Randolph is the man. Yes he, yes he, is. He's the Prez of Rainbowland. Yes he, yes he, is. With some fun, fun here, and a laugh, laugh there. Here a dance, there a song, Everything is fun, fun. Rainbow Randolph is the King, the King of Rainbowland!'
SHELDON: Is this what you want? A Hansel and Gretel ending?! You want to be the big bad wolf?
RANDOLPH: Stop! It's too hot! The heat! It's driving me mad!
RANDOLPH: Go ahead, kill me! Finish me off. My life's over anyway. Everything I touch turns to shit. Put me out of my misery.
SHELDON: You're not nothing. You're bitter, misguided and I'm guessing a raging alcoholic, but you're still Rainbow Randolph. Despite everything that's happened, you once made children happy. Would you be my friend?
RANDOLPH: Would you be my friend?
SHELDON: ( to Nora ) You too?
RANDOLPH: ( to Nora ) You too?
NORA: I guess.
RANDOLPH: Sorry about the brood mare stuff.
LATER: being loaded.
WIDER: Sheldon loads his gun as Randolph is curled up on the couch like a little puppy. Nora hands him a cup of tea.
RANDOLPH: ( a pitiful child ) Thank you.
NORA: ( re: gun ) What are you doing?
SHELDON: Just making the playing field even. I'm tired of running this race with one leg.
NORA: You're letting them drag you down to their level.
RANDOLPH: ( from couch ) She's right, Sheldon. Don't make the same mistakes I did. Keep your dignity intact.
RANDOLPH: I appreciate everyone's concern, but I can take care of myself.
SHELDON: I appreciate everyone's concern, but I can take care of myself.
RANDOLPH: ( mouthing to Nora ) I tried.
SHELDON: ( to Randolph ) Okay, buddy, we have to get down to the Garden. You're welcome to stay here as long as you like. Just don't leave until I get things squared away.
RANDOLPH: Be careful, Sheldon. Remember what I told you you've only scratched the surface of this scummy business. You have yet to strike oil. You're lucky to have a guy like You just rest, Randolph.
RANDOLPH: You're lucky to have a guy like You just rest, Randolph.
NORA: You just rest, Randolph.
RANDOLPH: He's the real thing. Smoochy's the real thing. And I've been a fraud. A wicked man doing wicked acts.
SHELDON: Well, we all have our bad days.
STOKES: Things are getting out of hand. We have to cover our tracks.
BURKE: Relax, everything's gonna work Relax? They found Merv Green's head on the Grand Concourse! Excuse my concern.
STOKES: Relax? They found Merv Green's head on the Grand Concourse! Excuse my concern.
BURKE: Look, we can cover all the tracks we want, but in the end we still got the same problem. We gotta finish what we started.
STOKES: God help us.
BURKE: It'll all be over tonight. Buggy's gonna take care of Buggy? Buggy Ding-Dong? The guy who hosted 'Buggy's Bumpy Yeah, until he discovered the joys of Turkish black mule heroin. For the right price he'll do anything. It's amazing the guy's still alive.
STOKES: Buggy? Buggy Ding-Dong? The guy who hosted 'Buggy's Bumpy Yeah, until he discovered the joys of Turkish black mule heroin. For the right price he'll do anything. It's amazing the guy's still alive.
STOKES: Yeah, until he discovered the joys of Turkish black mule heroin. For the right price he'll do anything. It's amazing the guy's still alive.
STOKES: I don't know, Burke. this whole
BURKE: Speak of the devil. Have a seat,
STOKES: ( attempting to Buggy. You're looking good.
BURKE: It's time we put this thing to rest, Frank. And the way I see it. the rhino's up past his
ACTION: Men, women and children flood in through the turnstiles.
RANDOLPH: ( sing-songy )
ANGELO: Randy, is that you?
RANDOLPH: Yes, Angelo, my little Twinkie, shouldn't you be getting ready for the big show?
ANGELO: Listen, Buggy's been here.
RANDOLPH: Buggy Double D's? The Dong Man?
ANGELO: Yeah, he lifted my backstage pass and he's braggin' that he's doing some kind of job for Burke
RANDOLPH: Sheldon's in trouble. I gotta get down to the Garden.
ANGELO: The place is crawling with cops. They'll jump on you like a I don't care.
RANDOLPH: I don't care.
RANDOLPH: I have to warn the rhino.
BACKSTAGE: Sheldon, looking very intense, stands alone in the wings. He takes a couple of deep breaths. We TILT DOWN and see the bulge of the revolver under his Smoochy costume.
ICE RINK: The Rhinettes have formed a line across the middle of the Smoochy skates out to thunderous applause. The entire arena is on its feet. The Rhinettes part as Smoochy skates through them and stops in the middle of the rink. The applause and cheering don't stop for several moments. One of the Rhinettes hands Smoochy a microphone.
SMOOCHY: On behalf of myself, the Rhinettes, and the soon to be restored Coney Island Methadone Center, I thank you all for
NETWORK BOX: Burke and Stokes roll their eyes.
SMOOCHY: It was my original intention that tonight's performance would be a benign mix of Smoochy songs and ice dancing. But as an artist, I believe I must convey to you, my fans, what I'm feeling at any given moment in my life. To do otherwise would be dishonest. Art is communication. It's something we learn and hopefully grow from. With that in mind. I hope you enjoy the show.
SHELDON: This is for Spinner.
HIGH ANGLE: LOOKING DOWN AT the opera. The CAMERA PANS OVER TO the catwalk high above the rink.
CATWALK: Buggy Ding-Dong, still in his Rhinette costume, settles into his assassin's roost. He begins to assemble the rifle and check the scope.
MAN: It's Rainbow Randolph! Someone stop him!
NETWORK BOX: Nora continues to watch the opera, totally entranced. Stokes and Burke look a little on edge. Burke glances at his watch.
CATWALK: Buggy finishes loading the rifle. He shines the barrel with his sleeve and looks through the scope as Smoochy and company continue to perform below.
ARENA: Randolph pushes his way past Garden security and runs toward the rink. Several cops working the event spot him. A few spectators scream in horror.
ICE RINK: The soprano's mournful aria reaches its crescendo as Smoochy is now pursued by Rhinettes dressed as Nazis. They hold signs with words like "SCANDAL" and "SHAME." Smoochy skates to a section of the rink resembling Chinatown where he lands over a fallen "Moochy." He cradles Moochy's head in his arms as the Nazis glide past him and disappear into the fog.
NETWORK BOX: Nora wipes a tear from her eye as she watches the tragedy play out. Burke and Stokes glance skyward. Nora notices RINK'S EDGE Randolph reaches the rink as cops push their way toward But Sheldon can't hear over the orchestra. The soprano hits a high note.
RINK'S EDGE: Randolph reaches the rink as cops push their way toward But Sheldon can't hear over the orchestra. The soprano hits a high note.
RANDOLPH: But Sheldon can't hear over the orchestra. The soprano hits a high note.
CATWALK: Buggy aims the rifle.
RINK: The MUFFLED sound of GUNSHOT is absorbed by the intense music. A wounded Rhinette falls to the ice, but no one notices. Smoochy, oblivious, continues to skate toward the "gates of heaven" with the angel Moochy. Giant white gates slowly swing open at the rink's far end as floating angels open their arms to welcome Moochy.
OUTER RINK: Randolph runs around the rink's perimeter, trying to get Sheldon's attention. Cops and security push their way towards Randolph. He suddenly notices the felled Rhinette on the ice and looks skyward. He can make out a rifle barrel protruding from the catwalk.
NETWORK BOX: Stokes and Burke notice a commotion in the audience. They now see Randolph running through the crowd on his way to the stairwell.
STOKES: ( whispering to Burke ) What's he doing here?! He's going to screw everything up!
NORA: ( screaming )
BURKE: You're in on this, aren't you! You sold him out! You fucking
NORA: You're in on this, aren't you! You sold him out! You fucking
STOKES: Nora, please. It's not what you think. I'm grooming you. You're going to run the division one
STOKES: ( frightened; to Burke ) What now? What do we do now?!
BURKE: Survival of the fittest!
OUTSIDE RINK: Tommy and her boys notice the commotion in the audience. They see cops pursuing someone. They realize it's Randolph. Tommy, Jimmy and Sammy take off after him.
CATWALK: Buggy, in position again, looks through the rifle scope.
BUGGY: RINK'S EDGE Nora screams.
RINK'S EDGE: Nora screams.
NORA: Sheldon!!! Get down!!!
CATWALK: Randolph reaches the catwalk as the orchestra plays a dramatic series of smashing notes. He tackles Buggy just as he squeezes off the SHOT.
RINK: The top of Smoochy's foam rubber head is blown off. In SLOW MOTION, Smoochy's tattered horn sails through the air and lands softly on the ice.
WIDE: Everyone in the arena screams and heads for the exits. It's pandemonium. Thanks to Randolph, Buggy's shot was too high and just missed Sheldon's skull.
CATWALK: Randolph tries to get the rifle away from Buggy. They struggle on a narrow beam high above the rink. The cops have reached the outer edge of the catwalk now. Tommy and the boys get there a second later. They all stand back the catwalk is too unstable.
RANDOLPH: Give me that gun, you fucking wacked-out freak!
RINK: Buggy crashes into the middle of the rink, cob-webbing the ice around him.
CATWALK: Tommy and his boys runs off to find Sheldon. The COPS help Randolph off the catwalk. He's a nervous wreck.
COP #1: You okay?
RANDOLPH: I don't know. I'm kind of fucked up in general, so it's hard to
RINK: People continue to run through the rink. Felled Rhinettes litter the ice like broken dolls. Smoke fills the air. Sheldon is helping a random woman to her feet as Nora finally reaches him. She embraces him.
NORA: Burke's with Stokes. He's been in it all along.
NORA: No, Sheldon, don't!
EXIT: Burke is almost through the cluster of people. He glances over his shoulder and sees Sheldon heading toward him. He shoves even harder now and finally gets through.
BURKE: You fucking point a gun at me? A gun I gave you as a gift?! Where's your fucking etiquette?
NORA: Let him go.
NORA: Now. Before I pump one in that Grecian Formula scalp of yours. You know something, kid? You've turned out to be an incredible pain in the ass.
BURKE: You know something, kid? You've turned out to be an incredible pain in the ass.
SHELDON: You were behind the Spinner hit, weren't you?
BURKE: That was a tragic mistake. If only one could turn back time. But what the hell, it's just one less mick in the world.
NORA: You son-of-a-bitch.
BURKE: Oh my. What are you gonna do? Kill me? That wouldn't be very Smoochy-like behavior.
SHELDON: You're right. There's just one
SHELDON: I'm not Smoochy.
SHELDON: I finally realized we're living in a different jungle.
NORA: No, Sheldon.
NORA: Suddenly, there's a voice from behind.
SHELDON: ( sternly ) Stay out of it, Tommy. This is my
TOMMY: No more killin', Shel. Enough's enough. Don't destroy who you are for this piece of shit. You mean something to the kids. Don't take Smoochy away from the kids.
SHELDON: I don't know how I got pushed this You're only human, Shel. The important thing is. you never went over the cliff. You're a good boy. For some of us. it's too late.
TOMMY: You're only human, Shel. The important thing is. you never went over the cliff. You're a good boy. For some of us. it's too late.
TOMMY: We'll take it from here, kid, you run along with your girl. Get on with your life.
SHELDON: Tommy, you're not going to
TOMMY: Don't worry. Sometimes even a rat deserves a little mercy.
NORA: Bus backfire.
STOKES: Get out of here!
STOKES: Move this thing!
STOKES: Are you deaf?! I said
CHICK: I wish I could tell you it'll be quick and painless, Frank, but you know how these things go.
SHELDON: You know, a little grime here and there doesn't change the fact. it's still a beautiful city.
NORA: Let's go home, Smoochy. Show's
SHELDON: No it's not. It's just beginning.
THE END: Writers : Marty Kaplan
