IT'S KISS!: Racing to the entertainment center, she turns the volume control knob so violently, it comes off in her hand. The music is even louder now. Flustered by the awful noise, she tries lifting the dustcover. It's stuck. She screams and covers her ears. This is Hell. Running to the rear of the huge console, she stretches to reach the plug, but can't. Fingertips millimeters away. As the cacophony POUNDS she shakes the entire stereo with all her frantic might. SCREEEEEECH! The needle scrapes across the vinyl with a shrill, finally coming to a stop. Whew, silence! Then, POP, the dustcover opens unceremoniously. Shaken, she grabs the record with trembling hands and reads the label.
MRS. BRUCE: KISS! The devil's music!
BOYS SINGING: "I wanna rock 'n' roll all night and party every day!"
HAWK: Thank you, Cleveland! You're a great crowd. But after three and a half hours of kick-ass rock and seven encores on top of that, I'm sorry to say that this time we really gotta get back to our hotel rooms and fuck some groupies.
LEX: What the fuck, Trip? That's my bass!
JAM: That was curly!
TRIP: Just one more day of school to get through, girls, before tomorrow night. Live! COBO Hall! Detroit, Michigan! You wanted the best!
LEX'S POV: A baby-shit green, Ford station wagon with fake wood sides SCREECHES into the driveway. Mrs. Bruce gets out and STOMPS toward the house. Lex gasps at the sight.
LEX: Shit! It's Jam's mom! My mom? Oh, no! What's she doing
JAM: My mom? Oh, no! What's she doing
MRS. BRUCE: ( muffled through glass ) Jeremiah! Jeremiah Bruce! You get out here this instant!
JAM: Oh, hi, mom.
MRS. BRUCE: ( screams )
NOW!: Jam quickly pockets his drumsticks and grabs his worn, denim jacket off the pile of jackets on the floor, then runs upstairs. The others follow.
JAM: What's up?
MRS. BRUCE: The devil's body count, that's what's up! Don't you know what KISS stands for? "Knights in Satan's Service!"
TRIP: Jam has yet to do an overnight with I had a nightmare once that something like this might happen. I hope he doesn't get grounded again. If he misses Peter Criss's drum solo, I don't know if he'll be able to handle Lex, quit trying to always jinx things. Don't worry, dudes. Nobody's missing that concert tomorrow night.
LEX: I had a nightmare once that something like this might happen. I hope he doesn't get grounded again. If he misses Peter Criss's drum solo, I don't know if he'll be able to handle Lex, quit trying to always jinx things. Don't worry, dudes. Nobody's missing that concert tomorrow night.
HAWK: Lex, quit trying to always jinx things. Don't worry, dudes. Nobody's missing that concert tomorrow night.
MAIN TITLES: The LOVE GUN album sitting in the trash can. CAMERA MOVES IN on the round label till it FILLS THE FRAME. The record begins to spin like on a turntable as CAMERA DESCENDS INTO the little hole ENGULFING THE FRAME IN BLACK. This LEADS us INTO.
END CREDITS: TICKET CHECK
TICKET CHECK: INT. JAM'S BEDROOM - DAY The sun's early morning rays beam through the KISS "Destroyer" poster taped onto a window shade. The phone RINGS. Jam bolts upright, his profile blocking the poster. He has just awakened under the only other decoration in his room: a crucifix. Still dressed in last night's clothes, a plain black tee- shirt and blue jeans, Jam leaps out of bed unwittingly planting a foot in the handle of a Bullworker ( a piece of exercise equipment comprised of a powerful spring with two handles on either end ) whose other handle is stuck under one of the bed's legs. Jam runs to a phone on his dresser, drawing the Bullworker's powerful springs out to maximum tension. No sooner does he pick up, when he is yanked to the floor and dragged across it as if tied to the bumper of a speeding car. Despite the Bullworker pulling him back toward his bed, Jam does manage to get the phone to his ear.
JAM: The phone's cord stretches taut causing its cradle to leap from the dresser and WHACK Jam on the head.
HAWK: Jam, listen up.
HAWK: Just listen up, man, cause we are in a quandary.
JAM: It's my Bullworker.
JAM: What's gone?
JAM: ( panicked ) Gone!? Why would I have the KISS Just check whatever you were wearing last night. Now!
JAM: Whew! Oh, God, Hawk. I got'm! Somehow I musta taken Trip's jacket by mistake!
HAWK: ( to others ) He's got'm!
HAWK: Trip, he took your jacket by mistake. You must be wearing Jam's.
HAWK: ( into phone ) I'm really sorry about that, man.
HAWK: Don't be a fembot. So, are you like grounded because of last night, or Of course, but has that ever stopped me before? Besides, my mom's going to some church meeting and won't be back till late. No sweat. See you guys in school.
JAM: Of course, but has that ever stopped me before? Besides, my mom's going to some church meeting and won't be back till late. No sweat. See you guys in school.
LEX: Poor, Jam, man. Imagine having to stash your KISS records inside Carly Simon album covers. No question, Mrs. Bruce is a psycho-bitch from You're one to talk, Lex. Your mom's a fuckin' dyke.
TRIP: You're one to talk, Lex. Your mom's a fuckin' dyke.
LEX: Trip, a female gynecologist does not a lesbian make. And even if it did, at least my mom didn't give birth to me while she was on LSD.
TRIP: Shrooms! And even if it was LSD, I can still give my mom a kiss without smelling the catch of the day.
HAWK: Both you assholes, SHADDAP!
HAWK: Enough of the mom-bashing, all right? Lex's mom is cool about us crashing over here while she's out of town. And if it weren't for Trip's mom, we wouldn'ta smoked that fine Panama Red last night. So leave the women who gave you life out of it. They're both cool.
LEX: Trip, you fuckin' asshole.
TRIP: Lex points to a wet mess on the pillow.
LEX: You spilled my Sea Monkeys all over the bed.
DRESSING UP: INT. JAM'S BEDROOM - DAY Jam gives the Bullworker one final yank. This time it comes loose. not from his foot, but from under the bed. Its handle lashes up SLAPPING him across the face. Ouch. Fully awake now, Jam throws on Trip's denim jacket. He stuffs a drumstick into his left sock. We see "Mystery" written on it. Just as he's about to stick the other one in his right Without a second of warning, or even a knock, Mrs. Bruce suddenly ENTERS. Immediately Jam stands.
MRS. BRUCE: Jeremiah, what are you doing?
JAM: Uhh. nothing.
JAM: Ahh, sunshine.
MRS. BRUCE: You're going to be late if you don't hurry up and change soon.
JAM: Change? What's wrong with what I got It's dirty laundry for one thing and for another, you still haven't worn the clothes I bought you. You're skating on thin ice already, young man, so I wouldn't push my luck. Now get out of those rags.
MRS. BRUCE: It's dirty laundry for one thing and for another, you still haven't worn the clothes I bought you. You're skating on thin ice already, young man, so I wouldn't push my luck. Now get out of those rags.
JAM: But, mom!
MRS. BRUCE: Besides, those jeans are so tight I can see your penis. Someday you'll see the futility in forging a musical career with those
MRS. BRUCE: Someday you'll see the futility in forging a musical career with those
JAM: ( to himself ) They're not idiots.
MRS. BRUCE: Now don't forget you're on the honor system tonight. I'll be home a little after one and if you've been partying or playing that satanic KISS music. well, need I remind you of the Grounded for the rest of the year?
JAM: Grounded for the rest of the year?
MRS. BRUCE: You're a smart boy, Jeremiah. And so
TRIP: School. What a fuckin' waste of time.
HAWK: Will somebody please tell those chicks disco is dead.
LEX: Stellas. I hate stellas almost as much as I hate dogs.
TRIP: Same species when you think about
GIRL #1: Don't stare too long, you'll go blind.
LEX: ( defensive ) Yeah, right. She wishes. Look at that big ass.
TRIP: You know what they say about a big ass. big shit.
TRIP: Hey, that dork looks just like Jam.
LEX: Shit, that dork is Jam.
HAWK: ( to Jam )
YO, DOOFUS!: Jam gives them the finger.
TRIP: So, Jam, who did your wardrobe, Tad the preppie sailboat captain?
JAM: Hey, my mom had me over a barrel, all right. After last night, I had to let her dress me today. It's a give and take relationship.
LEX: Yeah, she gives you shit and you take it.
HAWK: Okay, enough. Enough. Gimme the tickets. I wanna hold onto them.
JAM: They're still at my house in Trip's They're what?
HAWK: They're what?
JAM: She was standing right over me when I was changing for fuck's sake.
TRIP: That's some sick shit right there. Did she comb your ass hair for you If your mom so much as smells those tickets, they're history, and we get screwed outta seeing KISS for the third year in a row, the third year!
LEX: If your mom so much as smells those tickets, they're history, and we get screwed outta seeing KISS for the third year in a row, the third year!
JAM: Don't worry about it. They're perfectly safe. We can pick them up after school. My mom won't be home. It's no problem.
HAWK: All right. After school we double- time it to your house for the tix before heading to the train station for the 2:45 to Detroit Rock City.
JAM: The BELL RINGS.
HAWK: As they say in the Tampon biz, see you next period.
JAM: ( whispering )
BETH: No problem.
JAM: He stuffs his drumsticks in his socks pulling his pantlegs down. Jam and Beth stare at each other. There's a mutual crush, but both are apprehensive about making the first move. Both want to speak, neither does. They awkwardly go back to their notebooks. Mustering the nerve, Jam breaks the ice and whispers.
JAM: Beth spins too quickly. Her pen flies out of her hand.
BETH: BOINK! The pen hits Jam in the eye.
JAM: Feeling awful, Beth moves in to help. The teacher looks up Jam points to his eye.
BETH: No. No problem.
JAM: Just a little pink eye. No reason to
BETH: ( whispering ) ( handing back pen ) It's okay.
JAM: ( handing back pen ) It's okay.
BETH: She hems and haw, then.
JAM: She hems and haw, then.
BETH: I wanted to tell you something.
PRINCIPAL'S VOICE: Jeremiah Bruce, come to the office
WHOLE CLASS: Oooo, you're in troubaaaallll.
PRINCIPAL'S VOICE: Your mother's here and would like to see you right away.
TRIP: Holy shit, my jacket!
MRS. BRUCE: I made an appointment with Father Phillip McNulty at St. Bernard's. We're to see him directly where he will register you on the spot.
JAM: You mean, you're sending me to. b- b-boarding school?
MRS. BRUCE: What else can I do? Oh, records and magazines and comic books are one thing, but tickets? TICKETS? Jeremiah, do you realize what this means? That you're no longer content merely hearing their awful songs or looking at photos of their horrific faces! Now you want to see the devil in the flesh. You want to reach out and touch pure evil. and in Detroit no
JAM: Mom, three of those tickets don't even belong to me. They're for the
MRS. BRUCE: And if the "guys" have parents who truly love them, they will elevate me to sainthood for getting rid of these blasted things. It's been a long time coming, son, but you're finally going to get the kind of discipline you deserve.
MRS. BRUCE: It's been a long time coming, son, but you're finally going to get the kind of discipline you deserve.
LEX: I knew it! I knew this was gonna happen! I had a bad feeling since last night. Remember? We are so totally fucked!
TRIP: Waitaminit, dudes! I got it! Maybe we can glue the tickets back together!
HAWK: What are you, high?
TRIP: For once Lex is right. It's over. Things can't get any worse from here.
HAWK: For once Lex is right. It's over. Things can't get any worse from here.
VOICE: I hope you rodents have hall passes!
LEX: Wanna bet.
ELVIS: Could that be three detentions I
HAWK: Second floor girls' john! Two minutes! He'll never look there!
LEX: They take off in three different directions. Still laughing, Elvis stops where the boys just were. Which one to follow? He bolts after Hawk who has taken the nearest staircase.
HAWK: You're way out of your league, Elvis.
TRIP: Fuck! Shit!
LEX: Hey, take it easy, man. This is the girls' crapper, remember?
TRIP: Wake up, Lex! We just watched Jam's mom torch our fuckin' KISS tickets! Not REO Speedwagon! Not Journey! Not the Bay City Rollers! KISS! If you can think of a better reason to trash a bathroom, I'd sure like to hear Trip, it's not the end of the world, okay? Quit acting all squeezed out.
LEX: Trip, it's not the end of the world, okay? Quit acting all squeezed out.
TRIP: Oh, everything's hunky-dory now that the shit hit the fan just like you said it would, you snug sonofabitch! You fuckin' jinxed us!
LEX: Smug, Trip! Not snug, smug.
HAWK: We're clear, dudes.
HAWK: A skirt just came around the corner.
HAWK: That's Sherry VanHafton.
LEX: I've been in love with her since the second grade.
HAWK: Whoa. she just farted.
LEX: I have never heard a girl squeeze cheese in my entire life.
HAWK: Peeeyeewww! That stinks! Heh-heh, sorry.
TRIP: Peeeyeewww! That stinks! Heh-heh, sorry.
LEX: Heh-heh, sorry.
MRS. BRUCE: Someday you'll have a son just like you, Jeremiah. A boy who lies through his teeth, buys demonic records, and smokes the dope just like you.
JAM: ( numbly ) If I'm anything like you, I'll deserve I said, I'm sorry!
MRS. BRUCE: I said, I'm sorry!
JAM: I said, I'm sorry!
MRS. BRUCE: If you truly are sorry, son, then you better pray like you've never prayed before. God willed me to find those tickets because He wanted to hear from you. He knows you need help and He wants you to ask Him for
JAM: Please, God, help.
TRIP: ( re:squeeze pump/tube ) Wonder if you could smoke shit out of this?
HAWK: Maybe some tunage'll chase those blues away.
DJ'S VOICE: .and this is Simple Simon on the rock of Detroit, W.A.R.P., home of the biggest KISS giveaway in the history of the universe!
DJ'S VOICE: I got four, count 'em, four front row tickets along with four backstage passes to the concert tonight at Cobo Hall and I'm giving them to the 106th caller who can tell me the real names of each KISS band member!
LEX: Too bad we're stuck in electronics Never mind with the too bad shit. I got a crazy plan, but only the craziest among us can pull it off.
HAWK: Never mind with the too bad shit. I got a crazy plan, but only the craziest among us can pull it off.
MR.J: Mr. Verudi, get back to your bench.
TRIP: But I gotta take a piss like you would not believe, Mr. Johansen!
MR.J: Put a clothespin on it till the end of class, Verudi. You know my rule.
TRIP: But ever since my doctor put me on salt pills, it's been like Niagara Falls every half hour! Please, Mr. J! Have mercy!
MR.J: Salt pills? Don't insult my intelligence, Verudi.
TRIP: Jeezis, I'm taking a leak in my pants!
MR.J: ( hoarsely ) Get the hell out of here, Verudi! You disgust me!
TRIP: I need to be connected to the W.A.R.P. contest hotline. Now. lady!. Hello, is this me? I'm Trip.
THWAM!: TRIP ON RADIO
SECRETARY: ( to herself )
ELVIS: Why you little.! Over my dead body!
TRIP: I did it! I did it! We won!
LEX: We won?!
HAWK: Fuckin' A! Woooooo! This is the best thing that ever happened to me at school! Not only are we on again for KISS in Detroit, but we're actually sitting right at the fifty yard line! I dare you dudes to find a curlier scenario.
TRIP: ( stoked ) This is the best thing that ever happened to me at school! Not only are we on again for KISS in Detroit, but we're actually sitting right at the fifty yard line! I dare you dudes to find a curlier scenario.
HAWK: ( double stoked ) Stan Lee couldn't think of a better The Chinese have a proverb: "That which appears too good to be true, usually is." There's gotta be a catch.
LEX: The Chinese have a proverb: "That which appears too good to be true, usually is." There's gotta be a catch.
TRIP: Yeah? I have a saying too, Lex. It goes, "Catch my jizz in your mouth and stop jinxing us, asshole." We're going this time and that's all there is to it.
HAWK: I'm afraid our constipated little friend is right this time, Trip. There is a catch.
TRIP: Our band "Mystery" is a quartet and we can't go on the road without our drummer. Jam's mom said something about sending him to St. Bernard's, right? We gotta bust him out before we go anywhere.
HAWK: Our band "Mystery" is a quartet and we can't go on the road without our drummer. Jam's mom said something about sending him to St. Bernard's, right? We gotta bust him out before we go anywhere.
LEX: But. but, St. Bernard's is way the hell over in the next county!
HAWK: So? Your mom's car has a CB, radar detector and cruise control, check?
LEX: We are not stealing my mom's car.
HAWK: Damn straight we are.
LEX: Hawk, all I need is one ding on the Volvo and presto! There are my balls hanging from the rearview mirror after she gets back from Cincinnati.
HAWK: And when is she due back from that groinecologist's convention anyway?
LEX: Sunday, but.
HAWK: Then lighten up. She'll never know we touched it. Alright, here's the plan. We bus it to chez Lex, grab the Volvo, bail Jam the hell outta St. Bernard's and arrive at the train station precisely on time for the 2:45 to Detroit.
TRIP: Simplicity, Hawk.
LEX: Simple-icity is more like it. And you guys thought Jam was in trouble before. Wait till Mrs. Bruce finds out he went to that concert with us.
HAWK: There's only so much trouble an individual can get into till it just doesn't matter anymore, Lex. You familiar with a condition known as Absolute Zero?
LEX: The hypothetical temperature characterized by the absence of heat and even the slightest amount of molecular activity? Yeah, I'm vaguely Well, Jam is in absolute trouble. He couldn't get any deeper into shit if he was a fly sitting in a horse's ass. You know as well as me he'd give his right arm just to see Peter Criss's drum solo, never mind a whole KISS concert, check?
HAWK: Well, Jam is in absolute trouble. He couldn't get any deeper into shit if he was a fly sitting in a horse's ass. You know as well as me he'd give his right arm just to see Peter Criss's drum solo, never mind a whole KISS concert, check?
HAWK: Well, the least we, his only buds in the world, can do is take him along with us tonight and give him one last curl before he starts serving his sentence.
TRIP: Just for the record, I understood the last part of what you said, but for a while there you guys were making no fucking sense whatsoever.
HAWK: I was just explaining to Lex here what you and I already know. Just had to make it a little more complicated so he'd understand.
LEX: Very funny, Hawk. Okay, I'm in on this hare-brained scheme, but if anything happens to my mom's car, I'm blaming you. I'll say you drugged me or something.
HAWK: Hawk scopes out the cafeteria to make sure the coast is clear.
HAWK: Ok, dudes, follow my lead.
LEX: Wait a minute. We ditching the rest of school?
TRIP: About fuckin' time if you ask me. I'm just going through the motions till I drop out anyway.
LEX: Hello summer detention.
HAWK: As I was saying, follow my lead. And maintain. Elvis just showed up.
HAWK: ( eyeing Elvis ) Five second rule, boys. See you on the other side.
ELVIS: Excuse me, ladies.
NERD: Hey, I'm responsible for that!
MISS HIBBS: Then a cry from the crow's nest. "Thar she blows!"
ELVIS: KISS concert? Kiss my ass morelike. A nice, fat detention oughta put a crimp in this evening's plans.
ELVIS: Looking for something, rodents?
HAWK: Yeah, Elvis.
HAWK: ..Your ass on a lunch tray.
HAWK: On your marks and.
HAWK: They start stomping on the packets, squirting Elvis's face and torso with tomato-based condiment causing him to let out a scream that lasts the rest of the scene. Ketchup spatters across his body in SUPER SLOW MOTION. A shot hits him in the mouth and he COUGHS it back out in mid-scream. The boys stomp relentlessly, mercilessly, blasting their nemesis with hideous cafeteria red as Elvis throws his arms back, body quaking at every splat. It's kind of like the scene in "The Godfather" where Sonny gets it. Beaten and spent, his scream now dried up to a hoarse GASPING, Elvis slips on some ketchup at his feet. He hits the floor with a THUD right in the goop. He lays there letting out DRY SOBS looking like a bunless wiener. Hawk jumps off the stoop. Taking Elvis's key chain away, he hops back up and unlocks the door letting Trip and Lex out. Hawk whips the keys back at Elvis, hitting him in the head, then flashes a pearly Error Flynn smile.
HAWK: Elvis, you ain't nothin' but a hot
ELVIS: EXT. STREET IN THE NEXT COUNTY - DAY C/U on the grill of a moving car, Ohio vanity plate reading: PULL BACK to reveal it's on a brand spanking-new, brown Volvo 242 DL hauling ass. Hawk drives, Lex rides shotgun, and Trip sits in the back, arms draped over the front seat.
JAILBREAK: EXT. STREET IN THE NEXT COUNTY - DAY C/U on the grill of a moving car, Ohio vanity plate reading: PULL BACK to reveal it's on a brand spanking-new, brown Volvo 242 DL hauling ass. Hawk drives, Lex rides shotgun, and Trip sits in the back, arms draped over the front seat.
TRIP: Well, here we are back at fucking school again.
LEX: Huh. St. Bernard's. Figures it's named after a canine.
MRS. BRUCE: Again, many thanks and praise to you for seeing Jeremiah on such short
FATHER MCNULTY: Anything for a potential tuition. to be given to charity of course.
MRS. BRUCE: God bless you, Father McNulty.
FATHER MCNULTY: He already has.
FATHER MCNULTY: Before enrolling you, Jeremiah, let me just say it would be greatly appreciated if your career at St. Bernard's was an uneventful one. Some students believe they can get expelled through disobedience and recklessness. What they don't understand is even after God's vengeance is meted out, He forgives. That His devastating anger is followed by His nurturing compassion. In a nutshell, St. Bernard's may punish you even for the slightest digression, but will never cast you out, even for the largest. So here you are, Jeremiah. here to stay!
FATHER MCNULTY: Let's begin the enrollment, shall Now, how are we gonna do this?
LEX: Now, how are we gonna do this?
HAWK: Gimme a second, dudes. Lemme think.
TRIP: ( licking his chops ) Mmm, pizza.
DELIVERY BOY: Hey, you guys know where. Philip McNutly's office is?
HAWK: Yeah, I'm Philip McNutly.
FATHER MCNULTY: Jeremiah, are you aware you need to answer these questions, not just listen to them? Jeremiah?
FATHER MCNULTY: Please don't become difficult this early in your stay. I hate disciplining boys before I get to know them.
NUN: Forgive me, Father. A young man here with a pizza for you?
FATHER MCNULTY: Ah, yes! Send him in Sister Conimaria.
FATHER MCNULTY: Well, what's the damage, pizza fellow?
HAWK: Ten even.
HAWK: ( whispering to Jam ) If he offers you a slice, you're not the least bit hungry, check?
JAM: ( whispering )
FATHER MCNULTY: Here's ten and I'm donating your tip to the church. The Lord thanks you.
HAWK: Tell the Big Guy not to mention it.
FATHER MCNULTY: And not a moment too soon. I'm famished. I hope you brought a lunch for yourself.
JAM: No, but I'm not hungry anyway. Well! It finally speaks. There's one barrier we've broken through.
FATHER MCNULTY: Well! It finally speaks. There's one barrier we've broken through.
FATHER MCNULTY: You know, your coming here reminds me of a gospel called The Prodigal
FATHER MCNULTY: There was once a farmer who had two sons. Both grew up on the farm, helping their father until.
GYYAACK!: Father McNulty GAGS sticking his pizza-covered tongue out. He pours himself a glass of wine and sucks it down looking concerned for the moment. Finally, he BELCHES.
FATHER MCNULTY: That was a very stale mushroom. Where was I?. Ah, yes, one day the elder son decided to leave the farm.
TRIP: Usually takes anywhere from ten minutes to half an hour.
HAWK: Shit! This is such a lousy view. How the hell are we gonna know when he's
TRIP: He's lit.
FATHER MCNULTY: ( in mid-guffaw ) So then, the younger one says, "But dad. I've been helping you on the farm my entire life! ( belly laugh ) You never once slaughtered the fatted calf for me!" And then. ( more belly laughter ) Forgive me, Jeremiah, it's just that. I've been telling this gospel for years and. I just now realized it's the work of some comedy mastermind! The Prodigal Son is a barrel of fucking monkeys!
NUN: You kids can't go in there!
HAWK: It's okay, we're old buds of Father McNulty. How's it hangin', padre?
FATHER MCNULTY: A little to the right, pizza fellow.
HAWK: That was another dude. Anyway, we're here to take our bud Jam to the big satanic KISS concert tonight. Okay with you?
FATHER MCNULTY: ( waving ) Rock on!
FATHER MCNULTY: ( yelling after them ) Give my regards to the guy with the really big tongue!
FATHER MCNULTY: What the hell are you doing, Sister Gonorrhea, waiting for a bus?
FATHER MCNULTY: Jesus H. Christ, look at all the Oh, man, my mom is gonna send me to Alcatraz for this and I don't even care! I'm gonna see Peter Criss's drum solo!
GUIDOS: INT. VOLVO - DAY Hawk drives, Trip rides shotgun, Lex and Jam sit in the back. Stoked beyond belief, Jam POUNDS his drumsticks on the upholstery to the beat of a rockin' KISS tune playing on the Lex taps Jam on the shoulder.
JAM: Oh, man, my mom is gonna send me to Alcatraz for this and I don't even care! I'm gonna see Peter Criss's drum solo!
LEX: Not looking like that, Mr. Rogers.
LEX: We got you a change of duds when we picked up the car.
HAWK: Next stop: the 2:45 to Detroit Rock
LEX: ( screams ) My mom's hubcap!
HAWK: ( looks at car clock ) Anybody know how long it takes to fix a flat?
LEX: Jeezis, Hawk, can you at least keep it within twenty miles of the speed Lex, am I gonna have to lock you in the trunk till we reach Detroit? Don't worry, these babies are built for speed.
HAWK: Lex, am I gonna have to lock you in the trunk till we reach Detroit? Don't worry, these babies are built for speed.
TRIP: I'm starvin' and it's way past Totally. All I've had for chow was a packet of Pop Rocks and a Yoo-hoo. Let's stop in Sandusky, Hawk.
HAWK: Totally. All I've had for chow was a packet of Pop Rocks and a Yoo-hoo. Let's stop in Sandusky, Hawk.
TRIP: Let's stop in Sandusky, Hawk.
HAWK: What's in Sandusky?
TRIP: Pizza, and I been jones-in' for a pizza ever since we left St.
MOMENTS LATER: INT. VOLVO - DAY The boys chomp on their pizza slices and chug cans of Hawaiian Punch. Another raucous KISS tune BLARES. Behind them, a car horn starts HONKING rhythmically. Hawk looks into the rearview mirror and sees two guys and two girls in a tailgating Trans Am. The guys have 90 M.P.H. haircuts, tacky, wide-collared shirts, and massive amounts of jewelry on their necks. The girls wear 10-layer make-up, mega-jewelry, and hair teased so high, it touches the car's roof.
HAWK: Only a car full of guidos and stellas would ride someone's ass on a two- lane road and beep.
TRIP: Eyowch! This is one hot pizza!
LEX: Trip, huck that out before it stains the upholstery!
KENNY: Stop singing. NOW!
BOBBY: Hey, Kenny, look! There's a hunk of fawkin' cheese on your windsheel!
LEX: Holy shit! We just pissed off the Incredible Hulk, his idiot half brother and two circus clowns.
KENNY: Stop the friggin' car NOW!
JAM: Don't you think we should at least pull over and offer to clean it off?
HAWK: What?! Are you mentally deranged,
HAWK: What the fuck!
LEX: ( freaking out ) The paint!
KENNY: Do you realize the sheer, goddamn, unadulterated, undiluted, no holds barred, one hundred percent pure as Ivory Snow, absolutely friggin' STUPIDITY of what you just did?
HAWK: Hey, disco dude, it's cool.
KENNY: DO YOU?! Lemme paint you a friggin' picture ahright? Imagine if you will a 1978 Pontiac Trans American in pristine An appealing portrait, nesspah?
DO YOU?!: Trip, Lex, and Jam clutch their faces in pain. Hawk looks merely disenchanted as Kenny pokes a muscle-bound finger at his chest. Getting in Hawk's face, Kenny yammers loud and Hawk starts to say "yes."
KENNY: Lemme paint you a friggin' picture ahright? Imagine if you will a 1978 Pontiac Trans American in pristine An appealing portrait, nesspah?
KENNY: BUT WAIT! What's that spec on the windshield? Could it be a wad of melted mozzarella, tangy tomato sauce, and various friggin' meat products?
HAWK: Could be.
KENNY: And if it ain't cleaned off?
CHRISTINE: Kenny, come on with the macho crap already. Like this kid could take you in a fight anyway.
KENNY: ( ignoring Christine ) Answer me, hippie girl. And if the mess ain't cleaned off my car?
HAWK: It could. bake on?
KENNY: You're a smart little homo, aren't you, hippie girl? But, while astounded at your nimble, friggin' insight, I still detect an issue hanging fire, namely: where does a sharp-witted faggot like yourself get off doing such a dopey thing like that there?
KENNY: No really, I'm perplexed. I mean, could you have done stupider if you were born without a FUCKIN' HEAD?!
CHRISTINE: ( using "oh" to mean "enough" ) Oh! With the language!
KENNY: Shut-up, Christine!
HAWK: Okay, Kenny? I don't mean to drain your keg or anything, but could you speed up this process? Don't get me wrong, we'd love to stand here and get shit on by the cast of Saturday Night Fever, but we're also on a schedule. So step on
KENNY: Are you gettin' wise with me?
HAWK: No, I'm dumber than a goddamn slug. Now can I please clean your windshield and leave without further ado?
BOBBY: Break his fawkin' legs, Kenny!
KENNY: Oh, you're dumb all right, you hairy ass punk. But please, allow me to clean the friggin' windshield. I
KENNY: There. Nice and clean.
KENNY: Oh, no, no, no! It's the fag band!
JAM: Whoa! This is about pizza! Let's leave KISS out of it. Please.
KENNY: A bunch of guys who make bad music, dress like freaks, and wear more make-up than all my sisters combined? These assholes must be stopped!
CHRISTINE: That's it, Kenny! I'm leaving!
BARBARA: Oh, Christine! You googatz in the head or something? We're on the side of the freakin' highway!
BOBBY: Let her go, Barbara, she'll come back to Kenny. She always does. Right, Kenny?
KENNY: Kool and the Gang, now there's real
KENNY: But this. is crap!
KENNY: So. All that having been said and done, I believe we are ready for the final topic of discussion. Namely: Have you learned your lesson yet,
HAWK: Well, let's recap, shall we? You slapped all of us, yelled at me, used my head for a rag, threw me on the ground and tossed our LOVE GUN 8- track under the wheels of a passing So, if the lesson was that you're a dick with ears and a really bad haircut, then, yes. I'd say we learned it.
KENNY: ( beat, in disbelief ) Excuse me, I'm a little deef-a- hearin'. Can you repeat yourself?
HAWK: Okay. Ahem! You. Are. A. Dick. With. Ears. And. A. Really. Bad. Haircut.
KENNY: Oh, yeah.?
KENNY: That's not what your mother said last night.
HAWK: It's not, huh? Well, then, tell me. .what exactly did my mother say last night?
HAWK: .what exactly did my mother say last night?
HAWK: You heard me, prick. What did my mother say last night?
KENNY: Okay, fagmo. I'll tell you what your mother said last night. She said that I was the fuck of her
HAWK: ( very Clint Eastwood ) How would you like a nice Hawaiian ( smirking )
KENNY: ( smirking )
LEX: Not so fast, stella.
MOMENTS LATER: Kenny, Bobby, and Barbara are now tied to the guardrail with Jam's white corduroy pants, geeky belt, and plaid shirt. Kenny and Bobby rest their unconscious heads on each of Barbara's shoulders. Hawk, Trip, Lex, and Jam look down at the two guidos and the stella, snickering.
BARBARA: When they wake up, they're gonna come looking for you jerks. You best hope they don't find you, cause if they do, they're gonna kick your
HAWK: Right, stella, and we'll deserve it. But let's really make it worth their
HAWK: By the way, when Kenny wakes up could you give him a message for me. Tell him, quote, Kool and the gang bite my bag, motherfucker, unquote.
LEX: Oh, thanks for letting us draw from your ample make-up supply. You must have the entire Revlon factory in your purse!
BARBARA: Very funny. I hope you choke!
JAM: Hey, look, it's that girl.
TRIP: That's no girl. That's a stella.
JAM: Stella or no stella, we should pull over and help her out.
HAWK: Oh no, Jam. I'm not falling for that Well, couldn't you slow down so I can at least state my case, Hawk? If you don't like it, you can speed up and I'll never mention it again.
JAM: Well, couldn't you slow down so I can at least state my case, Hawk? If you don't like it, you can speed up and I'll never mention it again.
LEX: What is it with you, Jam? You got a thing for that. thing?
JAM: She's a teenage girl walking on the side of the highway. They make very scary movies that start out like Well, they may not make movies about four dudes going to a KISS concert. But if they ever did, the four dudes most certainly would not stop and pick up a stranded disco bunny. Unless there was gonna be a scene where the disco bunny blows the four dudes on the way to the show.
HAWK: Well, they may not make movies about four dudes going to a KISS concert. But if they ever did, the four dudes most certainly would not stop and pick up a stranded disco bunny. Unless there was gonna be a scene where the disco bunny blows the four dudes on the way to the show.
TRIP: Unless there was gonna be a scene where the disco bunny blows the four dudes on the way to the show.
CHRISTINE: Oh, great. I just hitched a ride with a bunch of potheads. I'm hooking up with some people at this funky place in downtown Detroit called Disco Inferno. Mind droppin' me there?
TRIP: ( smirks ) What's it worth to you?
CHRISTINE: ( grossed out ) What the hell is that supposed to It doesn't mean anything. Don't pay attention to him.
JAM: It doesn't mean anything. Don't pay attention to him.
HAWK: ( rolls his eyes ) Disco Inferno? Disco's infernal Your clothes may say disco, but your eyes say rock 'n' roll, baby.
LEX: Your clothes may say disco, but your eyes say rock 'n' roll, baby.
CHRISTINE: Well, your tee-shirt may say rock 'n' roll, but your breath says pepperoni, baby.
TRIP: ( frustrated ) So, are you, like, gonna polish our nobs, or what?
CHRISTINE: ( thoroughly offended ) What? That's disgusting!
JAM: Trip! That's so fuckin' rude, man.
TRIP: Oh, quit bein' the wussy, sensitive guy to impress her, Jam. She's obviously not gonna put out. She's a fuckin' tease.
CHRISTINE: Tease? What the hell did I do to tease you mongoloids?
TRIP: You got in the car, didn't you?
CHRISTINE: Oh, God, how calculating of me to lead you all on like that after you offered me a ride in the middle of Whatever. stella.
TRIP: Whatever. stella.
CHRISTINE: The name's Christine, not stella. And there's no need to be such pigs just cause I prefer Donna Summer or KC and the Sunshine Boys or the Village People over KISS?
HAWK: ( with disdain ) The Village People? They're fags! You're a fag hag!
JAM: Come on, Hawk.
CHRISTINE: I can take care of myself, but thanks anyway, germ.
JAM: ( to Hawk ) Okay, Joe Burnout, let's get one thing straight here. As far as I'm concerned good tunes is good tunes, be it disco or rock or polka or whatever have you, regardless of the category. True, if I had to choose, I'd pick the category labelled disco because I happen to enjoy dancing. Disco is just easier to dance to.
CHRISTINE: ( to Hawk ) Okay, Joe Burnout, let's get one thing straight here. As far as I'm concerned good tunes is good tunes, be it disco or rock or polka or whatever have you, regardless of the category. True, if I had to choose, I'd pick the category labelled disco because I happen to enjoy dancing. Disco is just easier to dance to.
HAWK: You call that John Travolta/Denny Terio shit dancing? I wouldn't dance like that in private if you paid me.
TRIP: Disco blows dogs for quarters.
CHRISTINE: Now there's an intelligently biting remark wrought with wit and irony. Hey, if you don't like that one, maybe you'll think it's funny when we throw your ass out the goddamn Yeah, why don't you put your money where your mouth is?
HAWK: Hey, if you don't like that one, maybe you'll think it's funny when we throw your ass out the goddamn Yeah, why don't you put your money where your mouth is?
CHRISTINE: Yeah, why don't you put your money where your mouth is?
HAWK: Why don't you kiss my hairy crack?
CHRISTINE: Why don't you bend over, you're looking right at it!
LEX: ( holding in smoke ) That last remark fell about 30 yards away from making any sense whatsoever.
CHRISTINE: ( realization ) Hey, you're right. "Bend over you're looking right at it?!" ( starts to laugh ) What's that supposed to mean anyway?
CHRISTINE: Man, this is some kickass shit! Gimme a hit off that jay will ya?
MONTAGE: The Volvo passing a big sign that says: "Welcome to Michigan, the Great Lakes State." The Volvo racing toward the Detroit skyline. Detroit landmarks: The General Motors Building, the Ford Building, Motown Records, and finally. COBO HALL, where thousands of fans in KISS tees gather, waiting for its doors to open. Unbelievable traffic stretches to an intersection at which stand four key landmarks. a cathedral, a convenience store, a parking lot, and a male strip joint. They face one another, each on its own corner. A gigantic sign on the auditorium's facade flashes the commandment, "YOU GOTTA LOSE YOUR MIND IN DETROIT ROCK CITY" over and over again.
LEX: Man, that weed knocked Christine on her ass. She's sleeping like a baby Let's lift up her shirt.
TRIP: ( whispers lustfully ) Let's lift up her shirt.
HAWK: ( pointing out windshield ) There it is!
JAM: ( in reverence ) We made it!
LEX: Curly driving, Hawk. We still got two hours to spare.
HAWK: Ample time to grab our tickets at the station. See, up ahead. W.A.R.P.
HAWK: Hey, Look at the front entrance! A car's pulling out. The parking space from heaven. God is surely smiling down upon us tonight, dudes.
JAM: Kind of funny, I thought He'd be pissed as hell at me.
HAWK: What was that D.J.'s name again?
TRIP: Oh, I'll remember it till the day I die. His name was. Simpleton the Simian? No, Samson Samoan. No, simply, similar.
HAWK: Simple Simon?
SIMPLE SIMON: The one and only. But can you kids hurry this up? I'm due at Coco Hall in half an hour for the warm-up.
HAWK: We're right behind you, Simo. Just wanted to thank you in advance for handing over those burly-ass tix me and my buds won this morning.
SIMPLE SIMON: Your name isn't Trip is it?
TRIP'S VOICE: Hello? Is this me? I'm Trip. Am I on the air?
TRIP'S VOICE: Gene Klein, Stanley Eisen, Paul Frehley, and Peter.Criscula! Yeah, that's it! Is that your final answer?
TRIP'S VOICE: ( with trepidation ) ( building to crescendo ) Trip? You just got yourself four tickets and four backstage passes to KISS live at Cobo Hall tonight! I did?
TRIP'S VOICE: I did?
TRIP'S VOICE: Yeeeehaaawww!! This is totally fuckin' curly, man! Thank you God!
SIMPLE SIMON: Well, there you have it. We had no choice but to give the tickets to the next caller. I'm sorry.
SIMPLE SIMON: We got sodas in the fridge if that helps any.
HAWK: Well, here we are, dudes. One hour and thirty minutes away from the concert of the century. ticketless. All thanks to Wile E. Coyote, Super- Fucking Genius over here.
LEX: Really, Trip, can we bore holes in your head and use it as a bong so it actually does us some good for a Fuck you, Lex! This whole thing wouldn't have happened if it wasn't for you jinxing us. I just made an honest mistake.
TRIP: Fuck you, Lex! This whole thing wouldn't have happened if it wasn't for you jinxing us. I just made an honest mistake.
HAWK: Oh, I'm sorry, Trip. What you made was a big, brainless, pile of horse shit. No offense.
JAM: Guys, GUYS! Come on, if this is anyone's fault, it's mine. I was the one who grabbed Trip's jacket by mistake. It's my fault and I Please, Jam, we're trying to vent some hostility here. Sure the whole thing may be your fault, but who's gonna get pissed off at you?
HAWK: Please, Jam, we're trying to vent some hostility here. Sure the whole thing may be your fault, but who's gonna get pissed off at you?
JAM: Sometimes I think I don't deserve friends as good as you guys.
HAWK: I have one question. How could a kid who wails on the drums like it's the only thing keeping him alive even think of such a femmy thing to say?
TRIP: Really, Jam, you tryin' to make us Yeah, it's like you're possessed by The Flying Nun, or something.
LEX: Yeah, it's like you're possessed by The Flying Nun, or something.
LEADER: Welcome to the first open meeting of MATMOK, Mothers Against The Music Of
KISS!": The group cheers as the KISS FANS milling around them pretty much ignore the whole MATMOK spectacle. Lex looks away from the MATMOKS and into the street. We can't see what he sees, but we can tell he's alarmed.
LEX: Uh. dudes?
HAWK: ( ignoring Lex ) Now there's a woman who totally abuses the privilege of motherhood.
LEX: They all look at Lex.
DUDES!: They all look at Lex.
LEX: ( eyes focused ahead ) Where's the Volvo?
TRIP: It's gone.
LEX: I can see that, bright boy. What happened to it?
JAM: It was stolen!
HAWK: ( incredulous ) Christine stole it! Asleep, my ass! The stella booted with your mom's But we took the keys?
LEX: But we took the keys?
TRIP: Damn, she musta hot wired it. We picked up a professional car thief in the shape of Olivia Newton-John!
LEX: Okay, I'm just a little mad now! Jam, why'd you talk us into picking that bitch up in the first place!?
JAM: I'm sorry, guys. I thought it was a nice thing to do.
HAWK: Jam, not another word out of your femmy-ass mouth! Okay, we're here, we got nothing, and we got an hour and a half. We're totally committed. It's time to brainstorm.
LEX: Here's a suggestion. Let's stop worrying about the concert for the time being and get the cops in on this Volvo situation.
HAWK: Wake up, Lex. This is Detroit. The cops aren't gonna waste city dollars looking for a Swedish car. Face it, the Volvo's on a cutting board as we speak getting sliced, diced, and julienned by Christine, the chop shop gourmet.
HAWK: Now listen up. Here's the game plan.
LEX: ( on a roll ) .I mean, my mom's got insurance. What's the worst thing she could do? Ground me for the entire year? I can handle that.
HAWK: Cool, bro, now listen up.
LEX: .Holy shit! I am in absolute trouble! I never should have let you drive, man! Absolute fuckin' trouble!
HAWK: Okay, shut the fuck up, Lex! Now, then, step number one, we find us a scalper. I got. Twenty-five more'n I got.
TRIP: Twenty-five more'n I got.
LEX: All I got is five. The rest is in the Volvo.
JAM: I got.
HAWK: Uh-uh. Don't tell us, Jam. Just show
HAWK: So maybe we got enough for one ticket. Waitaminit, dudes! I got it! We find four really small kids, beat the shit outta them and steal their tickets. What do you think?
TRIP: Waitaminit, dudes! I got it! We find four really small kids, beat the shit outta them and steal their tickets. What do you think?
HAWK: ( sarcastic ) Brilliance, Trip. Sheer brilliance. Give Albert Einstein here the Nobel
LEX: I think we should try sneaking in.
HAWK: Four dudes sneaking in? We'd get busted fer sure. Bad plan.
LEX: Okay, one of us sneaks in, gets four ticket stubs off some kids in the audience, comes back out, and we all "re-enter" the concerto. Voila!
HAWK: Still too risky for my money. We're running out of time here. This is KISS! A victory for one is a victory for the team. I'm sure I can barter with a scalper, but if you dudes think you got better plans, go for it. We'll reconvene at that
HAWK: .at twenty-thirty hours.
TRIP: One more time in English.
HAWK: For the next hour and a half it's every dude for himself. Try to get at least one ticket and at 8:30 P.M. we'll meet over there.
JAM: ( inspired ) Wait! I know how we can get in!
HAWK: Jam, shut-up! You're not allowed to speak, remember? Go use whatever femmy idea you have to get yourself a ticket or four. I don't wanna hear But. my plan involves all four of us acting together.
JAM: ( sadly ) But. my plan involves all four of us acting together.
HAWK: See you at 8:30, Jam. Later. Dudes? Later.
LEADER: Look around you tonight, mothers! Look at all the young faces! They smile and laugh but their eyes have lost all hope! Not one among them appears to possess the love and fear of God. This satanic group KISS has stolen their souls.
JAM: Oh. dear. Lord!!
MRS. BRUCE: I don't know how you got here tonight and I don't want to know either. All I know is you're going to pay dearly for this one, young man!
JAM: Mom, what're we.?
MRS. BRUCE: Just keep your lying, heathenous trap shut, Jeremiah.
PARISHIONERS: What a wonderful mass, Father/So inspirational, Father/Thank you.
PRIEST: Thank you/Come again next week.
PRIEST: Next mass is tomorrow morning, sister.
MRS. BRUCE: Can we talk, Father? I'm desperate. My son was about to defy God by going to that blasphemous KISS concert.
PRIEST: In that case, come right in.
BETH: Oh my God! That's Jeremiah!
DAD: Jeremiah Bruce from school. He and his mom just went into that church. He must be in Detroit for the concert. Can I go say good-bye to him?
BETH: Jeremiah Bruce from school. He and his mom just went into that church. He must be in Detroit for the concert. Can I go say good-bye to him?
MOM: Beth, I am not letting you wander the streets of Detroit after dark.
BETH: I'm not going to wander. I'm just gonna go over there.
BETH: He's with his mom.
DAD: Fine, as long as we know where you are. But don't be long. We need to be getting back on the road.
DAD: She's probably got a little crush on that boy.
VOICE: Hey, chief? Need a ticket?
SCALPER: Second row center, seventy-five clams.
HAWK: Dude, this is all I got.
SCALPER: Sorry, man, no can do. But I'll be here for a while if you scare up the extra gravy.
HAWK: Where the hell am I gonna scare up that kinda gravy in one hour?
SCALPER: The easy way.
SCALPER: You look a little scrawny, but it's worth a shot.
HAWK: I can't just walk in and take my clothes off. It's embarrasskin.
SCALPER: Guess you don't want to see the greatest show on earth. And in Detroit no less. Well, take care, chief.
HAWK: Dude, if it were dancing the way Fred Astaire did it, I'd give it my best shot. I'd learn the steps and practice in my spare time. But this. tribal, ritualistic bullshit, it's way-too-spontaneous for me.
SCALPER: Yeah, you're probably too young Hey, I invented fake I.D.s, alright. That's not the problem. They're playing disco music in there, man.
HAWK: Hey, I invented fake I.D.s, alright. That's not the problem. They're playing disco music in there, man.
SCALPER: Chief, here's a little secret. Drink heavily, your feet will know what to do. Now shit or get off the pot. Do you wanna dance or do you wanna see KISS only on their album covers?
SCALPER: You sure you'll have a ticket for You have my solemn oath as a public
SCALPER: You have my solemn oath as a public
SCALPER: Hey, chief, you need a ticket? Second row center, seventy-five clams.
TRIP: No thanks, dude. I'm beating my ticket out of some poor, defenseless chump.
SCALPER: What's happening to kids today?
HAWK: ( voice cracking ) Like to sign up for the contest.
BARTENDER: You're a little scrawny, but thanks to the concert we're low on amateurs. Pick a song, Hawk.
HAWK: Pick a song, Hawk.
BARTENDER: Pick a song, Hawk.
HAWK: Got any KISS?
BARTENDER: You kidding? This is Detroit. Drink?
HAWK: Yeah, a man's drink.
HAWK: Dickey goes to the bottle rack on the other side of the bar.
HAWK: ( to himself ) I'm gonna need all the help I can get tonight. ( looking at the drink ) What's that?
HAWK: ( looking at the drink ) What's that?
BARTENDER: You mean you never seen a Jack Daniels on the rocks before? Sure, I have. But not one with ice in it, that's all.
HAWK: Sure, I have. But not one with ice in it, that's all.
BARTENDER: ( seeing money clip ) Save your money, stud muffin. The lady at the end of the bar sends her
HAWK: Whoa. she is a killer.
BARTENDER: Amanda Finch. Her ex is one of the wealthiest businessmen in Detroit. Play your cards right and you could hit paydirt. She like 'em young. And since you look a little new at this, let me give you three words of advice. Hard to get. Think it, act it, know it, be it. Nothing a woman loves more than when you beat her at her own head games.
TRIP: Hey, you little twerps, gimme your KISS tickets or I'll pop your fuckin' faces in.
TRIP: I oughta kick your asses for sayin'
TRIP: But I'm in a hurry so I'll just take this instead. Now scram.
TRIP: Hey, little kid.
LITTLE KID: Shit! You just skunked my last ball,
TRIP: Okay, booger, your KISS ticket or your life.
TRIP: The kid says what he said before, but it is utterly incomprehensible, once again thanks to Trip's hand.
TRIP: ( looking at his hand ) Oh. Okay. But scream and you'll never live to see puberty. I'll pop your fuckin' face in.
LITTLE KID: Please sir, don't beat me up. I do have a KISS ticket, but not on me.
TRIP: A likely story. Hand it over, kid.
LITTLE KID: ( bottom lip quivering ) No really. My brother's hanging onto it for safe keeping. Please, let me get him for you. Hey, Chongo!
LITTLE KID: Hey, Chongo!
TRIP: ( getting scared ) Hey, kid, that's okay. I don't wanna see KISS that ba.
LITTLE KID: Don't try to run, maggot. Chongo's an all-state track star in every What do you want?
TRIP: What do you want?
LITTLE KID: ( gleefully ) A tag on your toe. Nobody threatens me and lives.
TRIP: Look, you can have my wallet.
LITTLE KID: It's not nearly enough, punk.
LITTLE KID: Besides, I was gonna take your wallet anyway. After Chongo and his friends crush your ribcage like a pack of
CHONGO: This fairy givin' you shit, bro?
LITTLE KID: He was gonna mug me for my KISS Me? Mug? That's nuts. I said, do you know where I can take a piss.
TRIP: Me? Mug? That's nuts. I said, do you know where I can take a piss.
CHONGO: Okay, pimple dick, you've got the option of walking outside with us or gettin' dragged out. Either way you're comin' with us.
TRIP: Please, sir, don't kick my ass! I'll do anything to get out of a beating!
LITTLE KID: Say, Chongo, perhaps we could use some extra cash for tasty snacks at the KISS concert our weasly friend won't be attending.
CHONGO: How much cash do you figure?
LITTLE KID: Take five for a minute, Chongo. Let me do the math.
LEX: ( whispering to self ) I can't believe I'm actually entertaining the notion of sneaking in. I oughta have my cranium examined.
LEX: Whoa. Danger Will Robinson.
LEX: He dives rolls under the 18-wheeler. The three security guards leap for the pavement and crawl under the semi after him.
SECURITY GUARD: Alright, wiseguy, you are so outta Hey, what the fuck?
ROADIE: Hey, what the fuck?
ROADIE: Keep your paws to yourself, ya dumb fuckin' apes.
SECURITY GUARD: Where'd he go? You see him?
PRIEST: Uh, next mass isn't until tomorrow morning, young lady. Run along now.
MRS. BRUCE: Now it's been a while since my boy had holy confession. Could you.?
PRIEST: ( smiling ) Consider it done.
MRS. BRUCE: It's about time you gave up on that stupid dream once and for all. No son of mine is going to be a career
MRS. BRUCE: Thank you, Father. I'll be back for him before you know it; after I take care of some unfinished business.
PRIEST: Just knock loudly, sister.
PRIEST: Come along, son. Get into the booth.
JAM: Forgive me, Father, for I have sinned. This is my first confession in. well. a really long time.
PRIEST: Prepare to receive the Act of Penance. How many sins have you committed since your last confession?
JAM: Just one, Father, but boy was it a
EMCEE: ( into microphone ) Okay, ladies, hang onto your hormones. Here comes our next amateur. Let's have a big hand for Hawk!
EMCEE: You're up, Hawk.
HAWK: Oh, Dicky, I c-c-can't.
BARTENDER: You're not gonna chicken out on me now, are you? We've got your KISS song playing and everything.
HAWK: I-I c-can't.
BARTENDER: ( leans in close ) Look, people undress in public because, A, they're exhibitionists, B, they're nutcases, or C, they need the money. I can tell you're not A, and I hope to hell you're not B. So my suggestion is, think about why you're a C and let your body party, shake your groove thing, boogie oogie oogie till you just can't boogie no
HAWK: You're right, Dicky. I gotta do it for KISS. Gotta put a bag over its head and Do it for KISS. Wow. I feel a hundred times better!
HAWK: Wow. I feel a hundred times better!
HAWK: Thanks lady. Maestro? As you were.
HAWK: Maestro? As you were.
HAWK: Come on, dude, we got a bunch of frisky felines waiting for some entertainment! The show must go on! Two hundred bucks?
TRIP: Two hundred bucks?
LITTLE KID: You heard me, nad breath. My time's precious and I think that's a reasonable price to pay for your sorry life.
TRIP: Look, I want to live, but I don't know where the fuck I'm gonna find two hundred bucks.
LITTLE KID: Chongo? Take him outside and tear his ass out through his mouth.
TRIP: Hold on! I know how I can get the money! I just figured it out! Only you might wanna wait outside.
CHONGO: I don't trust him.
LITTLE KID: I think he's on the level. He's too stupid to try anything sneaky anyway. Look at him, he's a moron.
LITTLE KID: You got fifteen minutes and not a second longer. We have a concert to go to. See you outside. Keep it together, Lex. Anything worth fighting for is worth dying for.
LEX: ( under his breath ) Keep it together, Lex. Anything worth fighting for is worth dying for.
ROADIE #2: Boy, this one's heavy.
ROADIE #2: The roadies bolt after the runaway drum. Other workers scurry out of the way to avoid being hit by the speeding instrument.
LEX: INT. COBO HALL/RECEIVING AREA - NIGHT More techies jump out of the way as the wayward drum heads right for a closed set of double doors. The roadies are just about to grab it before impact, when. The door unexpectedly swings open. The FOXY GROUPIES on the other side scream at the sight of the careening drum heading straight for them.
WHOOOOAAA!: INT. COBO HALL/RECEIVING AREA - NIGHT More techies jump out of the way as the wayward drum heads right for a closed set of double doors. The roadies are just about to grab it before impact, when. The door unexpectedly swings open. The FOXY GROUPIES on the other side scream at the sight of the careening drum heading straight for them.
ROADIE #2: Close that door!
ROADIE #2: Peter's gonna kill us.
JAM: So, you see if it wasn't for me, me and my friends would be at that KISS concert right now. together.
PRIEST: That's it?
JAM: Well, this is a unique confession to say the least, son. And not exactly the most interesting one I've ever heard either. You sure you don't want to talk about. oh, carnal knowledge with a neighborhood girl or impure thoughts about the new student teacher maybe. or how about finding a box of magazines under your dad's bed?
PRIEST: Well, this is a unique confession to say the least, son. And not exactly the most interesting one I've ever heard either. You sure you don't want to talk about. oh, carnal knowledge with a neighborhood girl or impure thoughts about the new student teacher maybe. or how about finding a box of magazines under your dad's bed?
JAM: Well then, I suggest you have a seat on the bench behind you and think of something a little juicier to confess than losing KISS tickets. I realize this is Detroit, but I personally find, what that rock and roll band is all about, to be boring as Lucifer's kingdom. I'll return in a little while.
PRIEST: Well then, I suggest you have a seat on the bench behind you and think of something a little juicier to confess than losing KISS tickets. I realize this is Detroit, but I personally find, what that rock and roll band is all about, to be boring as Lucifer's kingdom. I'll return in a little while.
JAM: ( whispering ) Beth? I can't believe it.
BETH: Believe it.
JAM: Are you waiting for confession? I thought you were Jewish?
BETH: I have a confession. Here it is.
BETH: I didn't mean for that to be so. intense. Forgive me.
JAM: I don't care. I wanna hear more.
BETH: I've loved you ever since I first laid eyes on you, Jeremiah. I've just always been too scared to show Beth, I can't believe you just said that because that's exactly how I've always felt about you. Call me Jam. It's my band name.
JAM: Beth, I can't believe you just said that because that's exactly how I've always felt about you. Call me Jam. It's my band name.
BETH: You don't know how long I've been waiting to hear that. Jam!
BETH: We've got to take this slow.
JAM: Right, slow.
BETH: Oh, screw it!
EMCEE: Okay, ladies, it's down to. Troy the Human Jackhammer.
EMCEE: .and Mr. Massive Head Wound Accompanied by an Upset Stomach-Hawk!
EMCEE: No contest. The grand prize of seventy- five dollars goes to Troy the Human
HAWK: Thanks, miss.
AMANDA: You're too kind. I'm Amanda.
HAWK: Right, well, thanks for the drinks and stuff, Amanda, but there's no reason for me to stick around these parts anymore.
AMANDA: Don't be so glum, Hawk. The night's still young and filled with plenty of compensatory possibilities.
HAWK: I'd be in a position to spend some money on you if you'd get in a position and spend some time on me.
AMANDA: I'd be in a position to spend some money on you if you'd get in a position and spend some time on me.
PRIEST'S VOICE: Where are you, son?
JAM: Uhh, tying my shoe.
PRIEST'S VOICE: Oh. So, have you thought of a colorful confession yet?
JAM: Actually, yes. Last year I walked out of a candy store with a Reggie Bar I hadn't paid for, but went back and apologized the next day.
PRIEST'S VOICE: Boooring. Think, boy, think!
HOLD UP: INT. SMILEY MART - NIGHT Trip leafs through a KISS comic, not really paying attention to it. Directly behind him is the register and the CASHIER. He starts hearing voices in his head. We see SUPERS of his friends' faces hovering around him.
LEX'S VOICE: I can't believe you're even thinking of committing a robbery, Trip. You don't pass go and collect 200 dollars for pulling stuff like this.
HAWK'S VOICE: No shit, dude, is this really worth it? Sure you get your ass kicked nine ways to Sunday by that fucking gorilla, but it's still a hundred times better than getting it porked for the next three to five.
JAM'S VOICE: And what about that girl, Trip? She'll never forget this night. Even if you get away with it, she'll be scarred for life. When are you gonna realize sometimes being tough means being Alright, everybody, SHUT UP!
TRIP: ( to the other voices ) Alright, everybody, SHUT UP!
TRIP: ( whispering to himself ) Okay, bro. You gonna have to do this sometime. Might as well be now.
CASHIER: P-p-please, mister, I'm just a high school kid. Fuck school, that's what I say! I just went through the motions till I was old enough to drop out and I'm leaving here with at least two fifty the easy way. Look where all that studying's gonna get you tonight. Robbed at gunpoint and possibly shot in the fucking head. for minimum
TRIP: Alright, drop it or I'll kick your
TRIP: ( gulps ) The KISS Army!
CRASHING BACKSTAGE: INT. COBO HALL/BACKSTAGE - NIGHT Your wildest fantasy of a rock show's backstage area come true. The place is packed with "beautiful" people. Scantily- clad BABES everywhere. Slick, RECORD BIZ-TYPES. Lots of food. Lots of booze. Lots of fun. It's backstage at a KISS concert, come on! CAMERA TILTS UP above the partying hordes to find Lex shimming along an exposed duct amid the pipes, sprinklers, and vents. Looking straight down on everybody, Lex is in awe and He takes the opportunity to peer down some BIG BUSTED GIRL'S cleavage. Then his eye spots something else. He GASPS. A door. On it a star. Written on the star, the word, KISS.
LEX: This is real. This is not a dream! This is real! I've pierced the inner
LEX: Oh, God, they're in there!
GRRRRRRR!: Lex jumps backward hitting the dumpster. A GROWLING PITBULL walks out from the shadows and joins the Shepherd.
LEX: ( petrified ) Dogs! Why did it have to be dogs!
LEX: Wake up, Lex! Wake up, man! This part's gotta be a nightmare!
LEX: ( to the heavens ) God, if you ever get me outta this, I swear I will never masturbate again!
LEX: ( to heaven again )
BETH: So. Is it true that Gene Simmons had a cow's tongue grafted onto his real one? Y'know, to make it so long?
JAM: I dunno. I think he had the piece of skin under his tongue removed so he could stick it out farther. I'm not too up on Gene trivia.
BETH: Your man is the drummer, Peter Criss, Peter Criss is my inspiration, man. If I paid a hundred bucks for a KISS show and all I saw was his solo, I'd consider it. money. Hey, how'd you know that?
JAM: Peter Criss is my inspiration, man. If I paid a hundred bucks for a KISS show and all I saw was his solo, I'd consider it. money. Hey, how'd you know that?
BETH: I have all your notebook doodles memorized, Jam. Here.
JAM: Ann Arbor?
BETH: My dad's company is relocating him. We're moving. That's why I was acting so freaky in school today. I thought it was the last time I'd ever see you. Anyway, open the box. I would have given it to you this morning, except. like I said, I was freaking
BETH: I pass by this really cool tee-shirt shop on my way to school every day and I know you wear those black tee- shirts all the time. You look like a size thirty-five, but all the sizes were in Roman numerals. So I got you an XXXL. That's thirty-five, isn't
PRIEST: Okay, you better have something really sinful for me this time, son. My patience is worn to threads and your mom will be here any minute.
JAM: ( pulling up his pants ) Alright, Father, here it is. About two weeks ago I went to my cousin's wedding and one of the bridesmaids asked me if I wanted to take a bath.
PRIEST: Beth is tying her shoes. Jam slips on his socks.
JAM: I was insulted, so I asked her if I was wreaking some wicked b.o., right? Then she said no, she wanted to take a bath with me.
PRIEST: Oh, this is terrible. Please go Well, she was a very tempting siren, Father. Built like you wouldn't believe. So I gave into temptation about a block away from the wedding reception at this little motel that charges by the hour.
JAM: Well, she was a very tempting siren, Father. Built like you wouldn't believe. So I gave into temptation about a block away from the wedding reception at this little motel that charges by the hour.
PRIEST: Well? Continue! Continue!
JAM: Okay. when she peeled off that gown, you'll never guess what she was wearing underneath.
PRIEST: Was it a teddy?
JAM: No. Much bet. I mean, much more sinful than that.
PRIEST: A bustier?
JAM: Tell you what. You keep guessing and I'll say something when you get it.
PRIEST: Splendid! I love a good game of Name That Nightie.
PRIEST'S VOICE: Satin underwear? Crotchless panties? Leopard skin bra? Fishnet leotard? Leather G-string?
LEX: Okay, okay, you're pissed off. I can see this. So. Maybe what we need.
LEX: Play some frisbee, poochies?
LEX: ( exasperated ) Alright! I give up! I hearby and forthwith defer my destiny to you mutts. I may be an intelligent, upright, walking, homo-fucking sapien, but you fleabags are a force of nature. So, I'm just gonna sit here and wait for you to decide. If you let me live, I thank you. If you bite my head off, I'll die knowing I did all I could. It's up to you.
LEX: Well, how do you like that?
LEX: Whoa! Whoa!
LEX: ( baby talk ) You sonsofbitches could tickle a guy to death, y'know that? Sure you do. Sure you do.
LEX'S POV: His mom's Volvo and a BMW are on adjacent hydraulic lifts inside a makeshift auto-mechanic shop. Two BEEFY JERKS with blow torches stand next to the cars. One has a bandage on his head and seems to be in pain.
CHRISTINE: Then maybe you guys'll let me go,
CHRISTINE: Come on, whadaya say? You scratch my back, I scratch yours. You let me go, and in return, I keep my big mouth shut about your little operation here. Mum, know what I mean?
HAWK: He gulps some down and pulls the flask away COUGHING.
HAWK: What the hell is that?
AMANDA: Whoa. Some of this hard liquor's a tad too manly for me. I'm a brewski man myself.
HAWK: Whoa. Some of this hard liquor's a tad too manly for me. I'm a brewski man myself.
AMANDA: Better ease up then, Hawk. Wouldn't want to give you whiskey dick would Who's Whiskey Dick?
HAWK: Who's Whiskey Dick?
AMANDA: Well. Obviously no one you have to worry about. Woody.
HAWK: My name's not Woody, it's Haw-haw.
HAWK: .holy shit!
AMANDA: But you do know Premature Peter, don't you? Shame, I just bought these
HAWK: Well, Amanda, this has been quite a night. So far you've seen me and my dick throw up. What's next? Projectile diarrhea? Man. What a stud, huh?
AMANDA: Believe it or not, you still have a way to go before you start competing with my soon-to-be-ex-husband. the champion of lousy lovemaking. The man who thinks he's the biggest and the best. The man who thinks every secretary, stewardess, and cocktail waitress he fucks should lick his feet for the honor. The man for whom faking it was invented. Christ, if I hadn't gotten pregnant with our son, I would have never known I even had sex with the prick.
HAWK: You love him?
AMANDA: I just told you, he's a big, hairy.
HAWK: No, I mean. you love your son?
AMANDA: More than anything in the world.
HAWK: And he loves you back, doesn't he?
AMANDA: He's a little spoiled, but I know he Well, shame on him if he doesn't.
HAWK: Well, shame on him if he doesn't.
AMANDA: You're sweet.
HAWK: My mom died of a heart attack while she was having me. Man, I wish I had known her for even one day. If they ever invent a time machine, that's what I'm doing. Going back in time to meet my mom. I'm gonna say, "Mrs. Pitchford?. or Miss Williams, depending on when I show up. You don't know me, but I'm your kid from the future. Just wanted to thank you for the blue eyes, pug nose and for tying the knot with a guy who didn't mind diaper detail. Oh, and, uh. cut down on the red meat, will ya?"
TRIP: No, you gimme your gun, boy!
TRIP: Not if I shoot first!
TRIP: Neither do I!
TRIP: Smile, you sonofa.
CASHIER: Thank you! Thank you!. Who are Call me. Dr. Love!
TRIP: ( with confidence ) Call me. Dr. Love!
CHRISTINE: You guys better kill me before you do what you're thinking of doing. Cause when I'm mad enough, I can bite down very hard.
CHRISTINE: ( mile a minute ) Now wait a minute, guys! Two against one ain't fair. Lemme go back and get my friend Barbara. You'd love her. Tits the size of your head. You'll feel like a little baby sucking on 'em. I swear, I'll bring her right back. It'll be a four-way. You guys like disco? I teach disco dancing at my church. You guys look like you got rhythm in your blood. Come on, free lessons if you let me go.
LEX: I'm here for the girl and the car. You can try to stop me, but I must warn you, it may be hazardous to your health.
LEX: Listen to them. Children of the night. What music they make. Hounds of hell? Say hello to dinner!
LEX: One foot out of that office and your asses are Alpo!
CHRISTINE: Wow! Thank you! You're cooler than the Fonz.
LEX: Lex takes her hand and they walk over to the Volvo. Lex lets her in then rounds the car to the driver's side.
LEX: You got a phone in there?
LEX: Call the cops.
BETH: Ann Arbor isn't. that far from Cleveland, right?
JAM: Nah. Once I get my own wheels, I could come up all the time.
BETH: That'd be great. Hey, maybe someday your band'll play there. It's a college town, you know?
JAM: I feel like such an idiot. Why didn't I just say something a year and a half ago? Man, think of how much time we wasted.
BETH: Let's not think about the past. Let's just think about from today on. I'll never forget you, Jam.
JAM: Tell me about it. Church will never be the same again.
BETH: ( flustered ) Coming dad. ( to Jam ) I'll call you. Soon as we get a phone.
JAM: She gets in the car. They both wave as the Impala turns a corner out of sight. Jam is left alone still waving long after she's gone.
HAWK: Amanda, as ironic as this is gonna sound, I can't take any money for. I'm no Midnight Cowboy, y'know. It would only cheapen the whole deal for me.
AMANDA: I'm not paying you for the lovemaking, Hawk. I just want you to have whatever you needed the money for when you took me up on my offer.
HAWK: They kiss.
AMANDA: You're a good man, Hawk. Thank you.
COP #1: ( to cashier ) You wouldn't happen to know where we could find this. Dr. Love, would It's company policy to hand over a cash reward of a hundred and fifty dollars to anyone who stops a robbery. I gave him the money and he took
CASHIER: It's company policy to hand over a cash reward of a hundred and fifty dollars to anyone who stops a robbery. I gave him the money and he took
COP #2: Okay, well, thanks anyway. And let us know if you happen to see him again. We'd like to ask him some
CASHIER: ( sighing to herself ) If I see Dr. Love any time soon, you're gonna have to wait till I'm done with him first.
TRIP: .hundred forty, hundred fifty. That's all I got.
LITTLE KID: Tsk. Tsk. Tsk. I really wanted things to work out for you, my weasly, dim- witted friend. You got spunk. Chongo, give him a fifty dollar
TRIP: Oh, no. Please, look. I.
CHONGO: Hey, the jerkoff's got drugs.
LITTLE KID: Consider it a bonus, Chongo.
TRIP: ( misty eyed ) At least I still got you, Stretch.
LEX: This oughta be enough to get you to Disco Inferno, Christine.
CHRISTINE: Come with. It's not too late for you to catch the fever.
LEX: No can do. But I made a promise to get you to that disco, and we KISS maniacs are men of our word. Besides. you're pretty cool. for a stella, I mean. Here's my number. Tell me how cool I am over the phone sometime. Okay?
CHRISTINE: Here's my number. Tell me how cool I am over the phone sometime. Okay?
CHRISTINE: ( to CABBIE ) Disco Inferno, on the double.
JAM: I'm gonna ask you nicely first. Mom, can I have my drumsticks back?
JAM: Again, can I have my drumsticks?
LEAD IDIOT: Hey, I'm on the radio! Hi, good- lookin'. We'll be back to pick you up later!
MRS. BRUCE: Drumsticks are the least of your worries, young man. You are in a world of.
JAM: I know, mom, I've been in trouble for about twelve hours now!
JAM: I'm gonna be spending the next two years of my life at St. Bernard's Boarding School, remember?! I'm gonna be outta your hair till I'm a legal adult, remember?! That way, all you have to do is go to church, light a candle, pray to a little statue for me, and voila! All is forgiven and forgotten, right mom?!! Then, you can spend your days in guilt-free pursuit of more constructive activities like telling everybody else how screwed up their lives are! That way you no longer need the patience and understanding required to communicate on some normal level with your own child!!! And that way you don't even have to think about how tough it was for you when you were growing up, and it's a good thing too. Cause if you did, you'd realize what a LOUSY, GODDAMN, SHITTY-
MRS. BRUCE: ( timidly ) Jeremiah. what's gotten into you?
JAM: ( into Mr. Microphone ) I just lost my virginity in a confessional booth! Lord have mercy!!
JAM: For the last time, mom. Let me have my fucking drumsticks. Please.
SIMPLE PLAN: EXT. IT'S RAINING MEN STRIP CLUB - NIGHT Hawk runs to the scalper across the street who's selling a ticket to another KISS fan.
HAWK: Whoa! Whoa! WHOA! That better not be the last ticket! I hope you have another one for me!
HAWK: Fuck me!
HAWK: Any luck?
TRIP: Plenty, but it was all bad.
LEX: I found the Volvo.
HAWK: They all shake no.
HAWK: Well, dudes, the only way we're gonna see KISS this tour is by some fuckin'
SURLY MOM: How dare you sneak out of the house like that! You had me worried to death! Don't you know this is Detroit! And for a degenerate band like KISS! They're sick, sick, sick and oughta be in jail with their vile antics!
SURLY MOM: Just wait until your father gets ahold of you!
LEX: No. You don't think.?
HAWK: Nah. Couldn't be. It's a miracle! A miracle!
JAM: It's a miracle! A miracle!
ELVIS?!!: Yes, Elvis. Fire in his eyes. Mania on his mind. And tickets in his hand.
ELVIS: ( laughing hysterically ) Whose laughing now?! Whose laughing now, ya little shits?! I told ya. Over my dead body! Ha-HA-HAAA!
HAWK: ( arms outstretched ) Take it easy, Elvis. Don't do anything crazy. Just give me the tickets before someone gets hurt.
TRIP: Hey, wait a minute! This ain't school property! He's not the boss of us That's right. This ain't school. It's not about school anymore. Now it's personal.
ELVIS: ( crazed ) That's right. This ain't school. It's not about school anymore. Now it's personal.
LEX: Come on, Elvis. We was only kiddin'. It's all in good fun. We run, you chase. Cat and mouse. You know.
ELVIS: Boys, this time. I win!
JAM: Well. I still got my idea if anybody will let me speak.
HAWK: ( beaten ) Go ahead, Jam.
JAM: We all beat each other up, then, once we're nice and bruised, we run over to the ticket takers and say we got mugged and our tickets were stolen. They gotta let us in then.
HAWK: Dude, you gotta let us in! Four muggers just stole our tickets!
TICKET TAKER: ( sceptical ) You expect us to believe that?
JAM: Look at us! It was those assholes! They even stole my wallet!
TRIP: It was those assholes! They even stole my wallet!
TRIP: Inside that you'll find my KISS Army picture I.D. and a hundred fifty bucks cash.
TRIP: ( to little kid ) Tsk. Tsk. Tsk. I was really hoping things would work out for you, my weasly, midget friend. You got spunk.
JAM: This is it!
SIMPLE SIMON: You wanted the best! And you got the best! The hottest band in the world.
KISS!!!: Simple Simon runs from the stage just as the opening chords to DETROIT ROCK CITY BEGIN. On the beat, BOOM, FIREWORKS shoot from the floor alighting the place. KISS takes the stage descending on hydraulic ON JAM, HAWK, TRIP, AND LEX They're seeing God! The show is spectacular. The costumes. The make-up. The blitzkrieg of pyrotechnics. The flashing KISS sign. Ace's smoking guitar. Gene's spewing fire. Paul's rockin' vocals. Peter's kick-ass beat. Then, something really weird happens. The crowd behind the boys heaves forward. Jam is pushed like a twig in a flood and over the shoulders of those in front of him. Purely by accident, he is thrown onto the stage landing on his stomach between Paul and Gene. Just before Peter's drum solo is about to start. Gene, Paul, and Ace silence their instruments. Peter throws his drumstick into the air intending to catch it when it comes down. But the sight of Jam landing on the stage distracts him. All is mute as Peter misses the drumstick. It hits the outside edge of one of the drums. Thinking fast, Jam grabs one of his drumsticks out of his sock and tosses it to Peter. It tumbles through the air in SLOW MOTION with a LOW, WHOOPING, HELICOPTER SOUND. We see the word "Mystery" clearly as it twirls. Instantly, it's caught in Peter Criss's hand and he brings it down on his drum not missing a beat. The song resumes with all its fury as Peter's drum kit ascends on a hydraulic Jam scrambles from the stage and leaps back into the audience barely missing the claws of some security guards. The four friends pound on each other with unbridled, teenage exuberance. Will it ever get any better than this?
THE END: Writers : Carl V Dupre
