TOMMY: Okay one down, one to go. You got quarters, Loretta?
TOMMY: That's a diet ginger ale, an extra- spicy virgin mary no salt, a club soda good choice a lime rickey, and a bourbon and a planter's punch. Five people, five drinks. it's Kismet! Tommy turns away, looking toward the entrance to the glittering on Loretta's finger. LORETTA, stunning in designer clothing and accessories, enters. Her looks attract looks.
TOMMY: That's a vodka tonic, a Pellegrino, lime and no ice, a gin Gibson straight up with ex-tra onions I am also fond of de onions and a Chardonnary spritzer.also with extra onions no, no, do not worry, that is just a little joke. There will be no onions whatsoever in your spritzer! He LAUGHS HUGELY, rather amused with himself. The guests You don't need to write it down?
GUEST: You don't need to write it down?
TOMMY: Mr. Memory? Do not make me laugh! He LAUGHS HUGELY, turns, takes two steps away and makes absolutely no effort to get their drinks. He looks toward the door.
LORETTA: ( Eurotrash accent ) I'm not too late, am I, dear? ( extending a hand ) Hello, darling, Alma Preston, how are you today?
DEBBIE: Thanks for coming, Ms. Preston, I'm Debbie Bartle. Do we have your check yet? Loretta pulls a Mont Blanc pen and a checkbook from her No, honey, I don't think you do, we just got in last night from our place in Barbados how much is it?
LORETTA: No, honey, I don't think you do, we just got in last night from our place in Barbados how much is it?
DEBBIE: Five hundred a person. Barbados?
LORETTA: ( writing ) Yes, we're just down the beach from Mick Jagger and Jerry. ( looking up ) You wouldn't turn down a couple of thousand, would you?
DEBBIE: Um, that's a lovely ring.
LORETTA: Oh, thank you. I thought it might be a little gaudy.who should I make this out to?
DEBBIE: Johnson for Congress. It's not gaudy, it's just.nice and big.
LORETTA: That's my Carlos.I can't even look in a store window. We're walking down this street in Rio, we pass a jewelry store.I didn't even turn my head and he's in the .$250,000. I said it's crazy. but you know Carlos.
DEBBIE: I wish I did. ON Tommy watching Loretta. A Guest standing just behind Tommy wearing MRS. ZEKE BRIDGES name tag watches JEFF JOHNSON gladhand the room robustly.
MRS. BRIDGES: I hear they had him open for six hours. ZEKE, a very fat cigar-smoker, marvels at Johnson's The sum' bitch looks terrific. Tommy, eavesdropping, joins Zeke's chuckle, which unfor- tunately turns into a wheeze and then a cough. Zeke turns to Tommy.
ZEKE: ( chuckling ) The sum' bitch looks terrific.
ZEKE: How about taking our orders, son?
TOMMY: Absolutely my friend! How can I pleasure you?
ZEKE: Bourbon straight up and a Perrier rocks for the lady.
TOMMY: Ah! Fire and ice! Wonderful! But may I suggest you make that a double sir? After all, so many guests, so few of me who knows when I may be back?
ZEKE: Sure, why not. AT THE ENTRANCE LORETTA pauses before going into the room.
LORETTA: You know where the powder room is, hon? I should freshen my face before I go in.
DEBBIE: It's just over there. ON JEFF JOHNSON with his well-groomed wife, VERA, and a barrel-chested Man in full resort wear, wearing an OLAF ANDERSEN name tag.
JOHNSON: So how the heck are you, Olaf?
ANDERSEN: I should be asking how you are, congressman. Johnson pats his chest and smiles at Vera.
JOHNSON: This old ticker never felt better.
ANDERSEN: It's good to see you back on your feet, Jeff. We need you in Washington. Inconspicuously, a pretty young redhead whispers to Vera. This is JENNIFER, Johnson's Administrative Assistant ( his AA ).
VERA JOHNSON: How's that granddaughter of yours, Olaf? Ready for the Olympics?
ANDERSEN: She'll be thrilled you asked after her. catches a spike heel. recovers her balance. then frantically searches her hands and clothes, SCREAMS, and gets down on hands and knees.
LORETTA: My God! My God! Oh my God! Debbie rushes over to her.
DEBBIE: What's the matter?
LORETTA: ( hyperventilating ) My my ring. My diamond. I took it off in the ladies' room to wash my hands. I was just putting it on I must have dropped it.
DEBBIE: ( getting down ) Let me help you, we'll find it.
LORETTA: Call Security! Loretta. Zeke Bridges taps Tommy on the shoulder.
ZEKE: Hey, what about our drinks? Tommy instantly assumes an ANGRY YOUNG STREET BLACK
TOMMY: Yeah? What you want?
ZEKE: What? You already took our order.
TOMMY: That wasn't me! You must be thinking of Jamal. I'm Karim. What you want?
ZEKE: Bourbon straight up and a Perrier He walks two steps.and once again makes no attempt to get the drinks. Zeke returns to Jeff Johnson.
TOMMY: ( snorts derisively )
ZEKE: Don't get me wrong, Jeff. Pyramid Insurance doesn't want special breaks. I just think we ought to be able to set our own rates without Uncle Sam sticking his nose in our business. Johnson signals Jennifer to come over.
JOHNSON: Do you know my AA? Zeke Bridges, this is Jennifer, my Administrative Assistant. Zeke's been a tremendous help to us. I'd like you to listen to his view on health I'd be very happy to.
JENNIFER: I'd be very happy to.
ZEKE: At Pyramid Insurance, we call our approach the Patient's Bill of knees, still looking. A pair of shoes comes INTO FRAME. They LOOK up at a bullet-headed man.
BRUNO: Ms. Preston? Bruno Handler, hotel My ring! My ring! Oh my god.!
LORETTA: My ring! My ring! Oh my god.!
BRUNO: Now just calm down, Ma'am. can you describe the ring?
LORETTA: It's a diamond ring! A big diamond ring! Oh my Christ! She's frantic. Debbie takes Bruno aside.
DEBBIE: I saw it. It's huge. it must be like eight carats. She says it was a quarter of a million dollars! Bruno turns back to Loretta, trying to calm her.
BRUNO: Ma'am. calm down. Now, is the ring insured?
LORETTA: Of course it's insured! But you know how it works if I report it, they'll cancel me. And I don't want another ring! I need this ring! The ring Carlos gave me. Bruno turns, speaks into the walkie-talkie he's carrying.
BRUNO: Where the fuck is housekeeping? I called for those dickheads ninety seconds ago. Johnson speak. As Andersen introduces him, Tommy con- tinues eyeing Loretta.
ANDERSEN: Now I won't run through Jeff's record he's been in Congress twenty years, and I've only got two minutes. I'll just say this: When those of us in pharmaceuticals, or agribusiness, or insurance, or utilities, or you name it when we've needed him, Jeff's been there for us. And we've been there for Jeff, too we raised a hundred thousand dollars today!
DEBBIE: I should be in there. Good luck, Ms. Preston. I hope you find it. She leaves. Loretta, mascara smeared, gets up, as does Bruno.
LORETTA: I can't go in there like this. God! Please. listen. I'll pay a ten thousand dollar reward for anybody who finds my ring. Just don't tell He'll kill me.
QUESTIONER: What do you make of all this campaign reform business, Jeff?
JOHNSON: Well, y'know Ernie. these days, everyone's down on the political action committees and so-called special interests. But, heck, I think you and Fran have a right to participate in our democracy in exactly the way you're doing today. I'm in Congress to represent you. I don't want any so-called reform to take that power away from you. two Maintenance Men.
BRUNO: I want every heating grate opened and inspected. I want every air conditioning duct vacuumed. Do you understand what I'm saying? AS he speaks, Bruno SEES Tommy pass through the hallway . spot something on the floor. pick it up. furtive- ly put it in his pocket. and walk rapidly toward the door to the kitchens.
BRUNO: ( running after him ) Hey, you! Waiter! Hold it right
TOMMY: No! Please! Do not report me! I will be deported!
BRUNO: Calm down. What've you got in your I told the CIA everything! I agreed to poison the pineapples! My green card is in the mail!
TOMMY: I told the CIA everything! I agreed to poison the pineapples! My green card is in the mail!
BRUNO: Stow it! I'm not Immigration, I'm hotel security. Now, what did you just put in your pocket?
TOMMY: I'm warning you, flathead, get cute with me and I will tear you a second asshole. Now a valuable diamond ring is mising.
BRUNO: I'm warning you, flathead, get cute with me and I will tear you a second asshole. Now a valuable diamond ring is mising.
TOMMY: We can almost see the light bulb click on above Bruno's
BRUNO: Very valuable. All right, I'll give you a hunnert bucks for it.
TOMMY: A hundred and five? Bruno snorts agreement, goes for his wallet. Tommy goes gor the ring. then suddenly leaps back in a cringe!
TOMMY: No! It's a trick! You will call me a thief and send me back and the Security Police will make me stand on my head in the guano pit! I have seen such things on
CNN!: Bruno snaps and GRABS TOMMY BY THE COLLAR.
BRUNO: Jesus, I'm not trying to trick No, no. it is a trap! I must turn this over to police. He starts to leave. Bruno grabs him.
TOMMY: No, no. it is a trap! I must turn this over to police. He starts to leave. Bruno grabs him.
BRUNO: Listen, dipshit. a valuable ring is missing and there's thousands of dollars in reward money waiting. So you'd better fork over.
TOMMY: How big is this. reward? Another lightbulb.
BRUNO: Um, five hundred dollars.
TOMMY: You said 'thousands.'
BRUNO: Yeah. Right. A thousand dollars.
TOMMY: No, no, no.you said thousands. With an 'S'. This is plural. This means "two or more thousands."
BRUNO: ( deep sigh ) Okay, you win. Two thousand.
TOMMY: Or more. Two or more. Bruno's had enough his grip tightens around Tommy's Just making a point. check to the Cashier, who counts a stack of bills. Bruno picks up a house phone, dials.
TOMMY: Just making a point. check to the Cashier, who counts a stack of bills. Bruno picks up a house phone, dials.
ARMANDO: INTERCUT with Bruno in the lobby.
BRUNO: Hello, may I speak with Ms. Preston?
ARMANDO: She's in the bathroom. This is Carlos. Can I take a message?
BRUNO: ( smiling to himself ) No, thanks, I'll call back.
BRUNO: Now get back to work! As Tommy heads back to the function room, Bruno picks up a house phone, dials, listens. He dials again, listens. No answer. He dials the operator.
BRUNO: This is Bruno in Security. Put me through to 502 there must be something wrong with the line, I can't get an answer. What do you mean, there's no one in 502? I just spoke to them!. No one's registered in 502? Are you sure?. Well, check again!. Shit! He hangs up, looks at the ring, and realizes he's been taken. His face twisting with rage, he hurries after an exit. Zeke Bridges grabs him.
ZEKE: Hey! Where the hell are our drinks. Surprised, Tommy opts for an EAST INDIAN ACCENT.
TOMMY: I remember. you were the sloe gin fizz and the mango daquiri? With perhaps a small umbrella for the lady?
ZEKE: Bourbon neat and a Perrier, dammit!
TOMMY: And would you still be wanting the umbrella then?
JOHNSON: Olaf, there's something I wanted to sound you out on. As a special Tommy moves away from the pillar, sees Bruno roaming the terrace, and retreats.
ANDERSEN: Tommy moves away from the pillar, sees Bruno roaming the terrace, and retreats.
JOHNSON: I'm thinking of retiring from Andersen's eyes widen in astonishment.
ANDERSEN: You're what?
JOHNSON: I'm thinking maybe I won't run. Maybe I should listen more to this. Really appreciate these years. Sail around the world. Climb mountains. Enjoy the finer things of life.
ANDERSEN: Jeff. Listen to me. You can't retire. Florida needs you. I need you. I need you on rates. I need you on regulations. I need you on those environmental nutcases
JOHNSON: Olaf, if I retire this year, I get to keep all the money left over in my campaign treasury. Comes to a very tidy nest-egg.
ANDERSEN: How tidy?
JOHNSON: One-point-three million. It's called the grandfather loophole. Bruno has gone. But Tommy stays. His eyes light up at the money.
ANDERSEN: Come on, Jeff. Look at what you'd be giving up. Going to the best resorts in the world and calling it "official business." Golfing and skiing and fishing, and never picking up a tab. And, Jeff there's no aphrodisiac like power. You can have some of the most intelligent, attractive women in the country. You've got it made!
JOHNSON: Oh, I suppose that one-point-three may seem like spare change to the head of Gulf Coast Power, but to a country boy like me
ANDERSEN: Okay, Jeff. I get it. Look. There's a little software company that's about to go through the roof. Johnson smiles at the direction the conversation is ON Tommy also smiling, in admiration at the transaction going down.
ANDERSEN: A few thousand worth of stock options would stand to make you quite a pile. As long as your blind trust buys them, you're clean the SEC can't shake a stick at you. Half a million, easy and that's just a start.
JOHNSON: Well, if you put it like that. I now see I have a duty to continue my career in public service. Johnson stands, puts his arm on Andersen. Tommy emerges, shakes his head, and laughs.
TOMMY: I'm in the wrong business.
TOMMY: The best li'l roper in America! But she doesn't want the charm.
LORETTA: You took your time.
ARMANDO: Cops bust you, Tommy?
TOMMY: Busted? Moi? Fuck no. He pulls out the wad of bills. Their faces brighten That look like busted?
TOMMY: That look like busted?
JENNIFER: Oh my god!
DODGE: It was my honor to serve in Congress with Jeff Johnson for a generation. No one could have been a better legislator. No one could have been a finer husband and father. And now He presses the tips of his fingers together and looks skyward, as if communing with his memory of the deceased.
DODGE: And now God has called his servant home. ANGLE ON Jennifer, in black.
DODGE: Vera, I know you're still in shock from Jeff's. passing. But we have to talk about his seat. Vera stares at Jennifer. She knows the score.
JENNIFER: Mrs. Johnson, if you'd like to discuss this in private
VERA: You can stay what's the Vera, I'd like you to announce that you're going to run for Congress. Let a few days pass to show proper respect. But next week, I want to stand next to you at a press conference where you declare for Jeff's seat in the House.
DODGE: Vera, I'd like you to announce that you're going to run for Congress. Let a few days pass to show proper respect. But next week, I want to stand next to you at a press conference where you declare for Jeff's seat in the House.
VERA JOHNSON: No, Dick no.
DODGE: There's nothing to be afraid of, Vera. With your name, you can't lose. People around these parts are so used to voting for Jeff Johnson why, Mrs. Jeff Johnson would win in a walk.
VERA JOHNSON: Dick, I was a Washington wife for twenty years. Twenty years of Potomac bullshit is plenty for one Vera, we're talking about becoming a Member of Congress. We're talking about a sure thing.
DODGE: Vera, we're talking about becoming a Member of Congress. We're talking about a sure thing.
JENNIFER: Don't worry about running the office I'll be there night and day.
VERA JOHNSON: I'm sure you would, dear. But I couldn't give you the same job satisfaction Jeff gave you.
GRANDMA: This is very sweet of you, darling. But you shouldn't have done it. Where did you get the money?
TOMMY: You don't want to know.
GRANDMA: How did I end up with a thief for a grandson?
TOMMY: Grandma I told you. I'm not a thief. I'm a con man. An artist.
GRANDMA: But also a crook.
TOMMY: But I only con crooks, Grandma. You can't con an honest man. Only somebody who wants something for But the good Lord must have been fond of pigeons, because he made so many of them.
GRANDMA: Sometimes I just wish you were more like your Daddy.
TOMMY: You mean, dead?
GRANDMA: No, smartmouth. I mean someone who made something of himself.
LORETTA: ( pointing at TV ) LOOK.it's the ad!
LORETTA: ( Swedish accent ) So what do you think of my accent, Compared to what? Loretta, why don't you go baste the turkey?
GRANDMA: Compared to what? Loretta, why don't you go baste the turkey?
TOMMY: ( calls to Loretta )
TOMMY: Hello.you have reached Girls of Many Nations. For Hot Blooded Italian Wildcats, press "one" now. For Perky American Cheerleaders, press "two" now. For a Sultry Swedish Love Goddess, press "three" now.
TOMMY: Bingo! Loretta.guy wants to speak to Inga.
LORETTA: ( o.c. ) Tell him to call back. I'm
TOMMY: Ja, this is Inga. Hello Paul. how are you tonight? You are feeling naughty? That's all right .you have your what in a bowl of oatmeal? Yes, that is very naughty, and maybe a little sick.
GRANDMA: ( CONTINUED )
TOMMY: Oh NO! It's my husband Lars. He's home early, I must go before .you want to talk to Lars too? So you like to talk dirty out of both sides of your mouth. Man, you are one twisted bastard! Laughing, he hangs up.
GRANDMA: Tommy, please!
TOMMY: Sorry, grandma, just getting a third minute out of him. He clicks off the phone and slams it back into Loretta's purse. Loretta, meanwhile, has reappeared.
LORETTA: You hung up on Paul? He's one of my best customers.
GRANDMA: I can't believe any relative of mine does that for a living.
LORETTA: C'mon Gramma.it's only my voice. They never actually meet me.
GRANDMA: So my granddaughter talks dirty for a living and my grandson's a What's up, Grandma? Are you embarrassed to show my picture around the pool?
TOMMY: What's up, Grandma? Are you embarrassed to show my picture around the pool?
GRANDMA: Of course I'm not. Look. She goes to her sewing basket and pulls something from it. She unfolds it: a long piece of needlepoint she's been working on.
INSERT: It spells out Tommy's full name: Thomas Jefferson THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 20.
GRANDMA: Make me proud of you, Tommy. Make me proud of the name you carry. In the silence between them that follows, we HEAR the tv.
GENERAL MANAGER: I'm Ned Grable, vice president and general manager of WFLA. We think Mrs. Jeff Johnson did the right thing in not running for the congressional seat left vacant by her husband's death. The editorial catches Grandma's attention.
GENERAL MANAGER: Jeff Johnson's name may still be magic. But it'll take more than the magic of name recognition to solve our region's problems. I'm Ned Grable.
GRANDMA: Name recognition. Lordy, what a notion. People have to be some boobs just to vote for someone because their name is Johnson. Tommy's eyes widen.
GRANDMA: I remember once back in Georgia, they even elected a dead man. His name was still on the ballot people were just used to voting for him.
TOMMY: What did you say, Grandma?
ARMANDO: What's this about, jefe?
TOMMY: ( calling ) Loretta! Get off the damn phone!
ARMANDO: This better be good.
TOMMY: ( sarcastic mimic ) "This better be good." Loretta!
LORETTA: Oh, ya, ya, God, you're so big! Uh-oh, I have to go now, my husband Sven is home early. Tommy grabs the phone. He pushes aside a protesting Goddammit, Inga, is it that pervert again! Damn! He smacks the receiver with his hand.
TOMMY: Goddammit, Inga, is it that pervert again! Damn! He smacks the receiver with his hand.
TOMMY: ( into receiver ) Listen, you little shit I just spent eight years in the joint, nobody talks to my woman like that! I got your adress, I got a machete, I got two Rotweilers. I'm gonna come to your house and tear your ass up! ( hangs up, laughing )
LORETTA: Okay, Tommy, what's so damn Yeah, I got work to do.
HOMER: Yeah, I got work to do.
TOMMY: My friends, I want to tell you about a town where the streets are paved with gold. This is a town where the marks give you money before you ask. A town where they take you to dinner after you fuck 'em. A town where when they need money, they just print more. This is a town where a guy bounced nine hundred checks and he didn't even have to skip town!!!
ARMANDO: Ain't no town like that.
LORETTA: You mean Vegas?
TOMMY: ( beat ) Washington, D.C. I'm going to run for Congress. What is this, a joke?
LORETTA: What is this, a joke?
HOMER: I don't get it.
ARMANDO: What's the con, Tommy?
TOMMY: Van Dyke. You remember Willie Of blessed memory.
VAN DYKE: Of blessed memory.
TOMMY: You remember what he said? They asked him, Why do you rob banks? And he said, That's where the money is. I tell you, people Washington. That's where the money is.
TOMMY: I found this shit in the library. You know how much a congressman makes? A hundred and thirty a year and that's just base pay for getting your ass elected. Then there are these things called PACs, and these lobbyists, whose whole point in life is to buy you off. It's the con of a lifetime and the damn thing is, it's legal! This is hot, people, we can do this!
ARMANDO: Who "we," white man?
TOMMY: You never heard of staff, Armando? I get in, I get a staff allowance of five hundred and thirty-seven grand a year Loretta wolf-WHISTLES.
TOMMY: which I will generously share with you.
LORETTA: And how exactly were you going to get your butt to Congress?
HOMER: Yeah why would anyone vote for Not for me, Homer. For Jeff Johnson. Name recognition that's what it's all about. You think folks know their congressman died? I get on the ballot as Jeff Johnson, I guarantee they'll vote for me. Now all's I have to do is get on the Which is how?
TOMMY: Not for me, Homer. For Jeff Johnson. Name recognition that's what it's all about. You think folks know their congressman died? I get on the ballot as Jeff Johnson, I guarantee they'll vote for me. Now all's I have to do is get on the Which is how?
LORETTA: Which is how?
TOMMY: Which is where you folks come in. All's we have to do is collect five thousand six hundred twenty five signatures.
ARMANDO: You shittin' us?
HOMER: In your dreams, Tommy.
TOMMY: You people got a better idea?
VAN DYKE: I do.
TOMMY: Okay. gimme the four-one-one on these Silver Foxes Again. It's a bunch of old folks who like to Don't laugh, they get an enormous turnout. But the big thing is, they have their own line on the ballot. They already got the The lady we're meeting, Hattie Rifkin, they call her the condo So all I have to do is snow one old lady. Don't sound like major THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 24.
VAN DYKE: Don't laugh, they get an enormous turnout. But the big thing is, they have their own line on the ballot. They already got the The lady we're meeting, Hattie Rifkin, they call her the condo So all I have to do is snow one old lady. Don't sound like major THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 24.
TOMMY: VAN DYKE
VAN DYKE: The lady we're meeting, Hattie Rifkin, they call her the condo So all I have to do is snow one old lady. Don't sound like major THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 24.
TOMMY: So all I have to do is snow one old lady. Don't sound like major THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 24.
HATTIE: So, what brings you here? You want to talk politics. talk!
VAN DYKE: We were wondering who you were going to run for Congress this year.
HATTIE: Oh, the usual sacrifical lamb. Probably Sylvia Roland. She just lost her husband, she needs to meet new people. Why?
TOMMY: Mrs. Rifkin. I want to run.
HATTIE: Well, I want to run too but with this plastic hip, it's not gonna Tommy breaks up. In spite of himself, he's charmed by the salty old babe.
TOMMY: What I mean is. I'd like to run for Congress on the Silver Fox ticket. I care about you and your Yeah, that's what my son says. But does he call? Anyway, what makes you think a group of alter cockers are gonna support a man who hasn't clipped his first nose hair yet?
HATTIE: Yeah, that's what my son says. But does he call? Anyway, what makes you think a group of alter cockers are gonna support a man who hasn't clipped his first nose hair yet?
TOMMY: Because I can win.
HATTIE: No, no. a Democrat can win. A Republican can win. A Silver Fox can only make a symbolic point.
TOMMY: Mrs. RIfkin, if you give me a ballot line, and if I can get support THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 25.
HATTIE: If. if. Ven die bubbah halla tsehen qulishkes, het gehaya zadeh.
TOMMY: Sure, but. besser die viller ein der kenner. Hattie cracks up. Tommy leans over and translates for Van Dyke:
TOMMY: She said, 'If my grandmother had balls, she'd be my grandfather.'
HATTIE: ( recovering ) Where the Hell did you learn to speak Yiddish?
TOMMY: The same place I learned to hustle shtarkers at gin rummy. From Morris Elfbein. the Gin King of Miami No kidding. you knew the Rudolf Valentino of Dade County?
HATTIE: No kidding. you knew the Rudolf Valentino of Dade County?
TOMMY: He taught me a great deal. He taught me you don't always need the best cards to win.
HATTIE: Maybe not in gin, but in politics, young man, you need money to win, you need a name to win, you.
TOMMY: Oh, I have a name.
HATTIE: What, you're an athlete, a movie star? I don't get out as much as I used to. You're not on MTV, are No ma'am. My name is Johnson. Jeff Johnson. The Name You Know.
TOMMY: No ma'am. My name is Johnson. Jeff Johnson. The Name You Know.
HATTIE: Jeff Johnson. Well, that's a name even our Alzheimer's Group will Still, for a full-up campaign, we'd need materials, we'd need ads.
TOMMY: You leave that to me, Mrs. R.
VERA JOHNSON: I'm not sure I understand, Professor Franklin you wrote your doctoral thesis on my husband?
TOMMY: He was a great man, Mrs. Johnson. He did so much for my people.
VERA JOHNSON: He. did?
TOMMY: Oh, yes. I'll never forget when he said 'Welfare is a drug and you gotta kick it cold turkey.' It was. inspirational.
VERA JOHNSON: Really. well, I'm sure.
TOMMY: And I was actually in the audience when he said, 'If you people would just get off your dead asses and look for work, this country might be fit to live in again.' Powerful It's very kind of you to say so. And you're very kind to come all the way from. where was it?
VERA JOHNSON: It's very kind of you to say so. And you're very kind to come all the way from. where was it?
TOMMY: Wilson-Pickett State Teachers College. But I didn't just come to pay respects, ma'am. I came because your husband deserves an archive. A place where scholars can study his legacy. A storehouse for the record of his remarkable career.
VERA JOHNSON: I see. So you want. his papers?
TOMMY: Oh, not just his papers, Mrs. Johnson. Everything. Buttons, posters, bumper stickers. All the paraphernalia of his campaigns proof of his political genius. Now I realize that you may have a sentimental attachment to a few Take 'em.
VERA JOHNSON: Take 'em.
TOMMY: I beg your pardon.
VERA JOHNSON: Take 'em all. Would you like the wedding photos, too?
TOMMY: Well, I don't think that's necess.
VERA JOHNSON: Good that way you won't have to go rooting around in the garbage. Is there anything else?
TOMMY: Well, um. no.
VERA JOHNSON: More tea? Or something stronger? I know it's only ten-thirty, but, hell, sun's over the yardarm somewhere, right?
TOMMY: Actually, ma'am, I should be getting THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 28.
VERA JOHNSON: You're in pretty good shape for a professor. D'you work out? Tommy rises and packs his briefcase hastily.
TOMMY: Look, I, um, have a class to teach. You know how blind students are. they're so Don't worry ma'am. your materials will be in good hands.
VAN DYKE: Are you sure you don't want to come to Washington with us, Homer?
HOMER: You bums got time on your hands. I got a business to run. ON LORETTA working the RINGING pay phone.
LORETTA: Hello? Who? The League of Women Voters? Sorry, Mr. Johnson won't be attending the debate. No no, Betty, I'm sorry, I can't tie up this line. Hello? The Sarasota Star-Ledger? I'm sorry, we're out of photographs. No, you can't, Mr. Johnson has just had surgery for a deviated septum. Ya, this is Inga. PAN TO TOMMY training a home video camera on a poster that reads JEFF JOHNSON FOR CONGRESS.
TOMMY: ( very white ) We're not going to show you Jeff Johnson waving a flag. We're not going to show you Jeff Johnson kissing babies. We're not going to show you Jeff Johnson doing anything, because you already know what Jeff Johnson can do.
TOMMY: Jeff Johnson. The name you know.
HUSBAND: Who are we voting for Congress?
WIFE: Don't we always vote for Johnson?
HUSBAND: That's it Johnson.
NETWORK ANCHOR: If you're just joining us, our exit polls project that in Florida, an unknown, independent candidate whose sole asset appears to be his name may just possibly win a slim
CAMERAMAN: Jesus he's not. white. I actually voted for the guy. I thought he was Jeff Johnson.
TOMMY: Thank you, thank you, all of you, for your help. Give yourself a round of applause.
GRANDMA: I've never been so proud in all my life. He was always such a good boy.well, I think he meant well. Sometimes well he was a clean child. That's important, I
PAN TO: ( CONTINUED )
TOMMY: We ran a positive campaign. We campaigned on the issues. The issue is leadership. Leadership for the future. Ask not what you can do for your country. The people have spoken. The only thing we have to fear is fear itself. If you can't stand the heat stay out of the kitchen. Live Free or Die. And in conclusion.read my lips!
TOMMY: The promised land.
REINHARDT: Arthur Reinhardt. You remember me I Fed-Exed that material to you in Key West?
TOMMY: Reinhardt, my man! Of course! You look just like I pictured you. Nice wing tips.
REINHARDT: Thank you. Congressman, I hope you don't think I'm out of line for meeting you here I thought you might want some help with logistics, settling in at your hotel Since you didn't make it to the Harvard seminar, I put together a set of their papers for you.
TOMMY: I like your initiative, Reinhardt, but to tell you the truth, I've never been much of a student. Maybe you can brief my staff sometime.
TOMMY: But thank you, I will take you up on those logistics. Hey! Entourage! What hotel we at?
TOMMY: Reinhardt, it appears that the staff has neglected to nail down some details.
REINHARDT: Oh, Jesus, the IMF's in town. Where are we going to find a room?
TOMMY: Four rooms.
REINHARDT: I got lucky at the Madison. Thank god there's been a coup in Uruguay. Their delegation just checked out.
TOMMY: You're a wizard, Reinhardt. I knew you could handle it.
TOMMY: So when does the House open for Reinhardt hasn't heard it put quite that way before. Reinhardt gets his courage up.
REINHARDT: Say, Congressman, you got my resume, didn't you?
TOMMY: ( hasn't a clue ) I'm sure I did.
REINHARDT: There's something I wanted to ask you. I know it's a big step, but I'd like you to consider me to be your AA.
TOMMY: That's quite an offer, Reinhardt, very decent of you, but I'm just a social drinker.
REINHARDT: No. AA. Your Administrative Assistant. I worked for Congressman Johnson. I'd like to work for you, Congressman Johnson.
TOMMY: Tommy looks at his own troops, then back to Reinhardt.
TOMMY: You mean like an affirmative action thing?
TOMMY: Tell you what I'll think about it, okay?
TOMMY: ( through the open Thanks for getting us settled, really appreciate it. ( to driver ) Madison Hotel.
ATTENDANT: Sorry, folks, this elevator's for Members only.
TOMMY: That's okay, they're with me. Sixth floor please. Cannon 609. I'm going to my office.
ATTENDANT: I said Members only.
TOMMY: I am a Member. Now take us to six before I haul your ass in front of the committee on disrespectful Elevator don't go to six. You have to get off at five and walk.
ATTENDANT: Elevator don't go to six. You have to get off at five and walk.
TOMMY: Wait here. He heads further into the office.
TOMMY: You again!
REINHARDT: Good morning, congressman.
TOMMY: What is this shithole?
REINHARDT: Excuse me?
TOMMY: ( gesturing, peeved ) ( casual ) Oh you missed the freshman lottery for offices. They assign them by draw. You didn't show for the draw, so you got the worst office in Congress.
REINHARDT: ( casual ) Oh you missed the freshman lottery for offices. They assign them by draw. You didn't show for the draw, so you got the worst office in Congress.
TOMMY: I missed what lottery?
REINHARDT: It was all in the briefing books I mailed you.
TOMMY: What else did I miss, Reinhardt?
REINHARDT: Are you hiring me, congressman? Tommy gives Reinhardt a good once-over, seeing him anew.
TOMMY: You're shaking me down, aren't you? Tommy laughs, then clasps Reinhardt's shoulders.
TOMMY: This is fantastic, Reinhardt. I haven't been here five minutes, and you're shaking me down. God, I'm gonna love this town. You're hired, man. Just tell me what to do next. I don't want to miss out on any of the good shit.
REINHARDT: The dinner for new Members is tonight, at Union Station. Do you have black tie? BEGIN elegant, spirited classical MUSIC.
TOMMY: Let's meet some natives. Tommy leads her over to two Men, 30s, excellent haircuts. Both wear pins. He extends a hand.
TOMMY: Tommy Johnson, how'd you do, nice party, heck of a railroad station, isn't it?
RAFE: Rafe Simon, freshman from Tulsa. And this is Bo Chandler
BO: from Lufkin, Texas. You must be the one who didn't come to Harvard.
TOMMY: No, I couldn't, it was my Princeton Jeff Johnson? You're Jeff Johnson? The guy from Florida?
RAFE: Jeff Johnson? You're Jeff Johnson? The guy from Florida?
TOMMY: That's right.
RAFE: ( to Bo ) The rest of us are out there on the campaign trail, raising money, kissing ass, making speeches, dragging our butts from place to place and he slides in on pure name recognition!
RAFE: Let me tell you something, Jeff. A tense beat. Then Rafe breaks into a smile.
RAFE: Fuckin' brilliant. Bo winks at Tommy. Thank you. Thank you both very much. Isn't that nice, now, don't you think? This is Miss Loretta, boys. She extends a regal hand to each, Liza Doolittle at the How do yo do. How do you do.
LORETTA: How do yo do. How do you do.
TOMMY: And it's Tommy. My friends call me Tommy. "Jeff" is my. professional name. So what line of work were you boys in before you got elected? You lawyers or Oh, no, I did morning weather and traffic for KTOK in Tulsa.
RAFE: Oh, no, I did morning weather and traffic for KTOK in Tulsa.
BO: You don't remember me? I was a tight end for the Oilers my knee gimped out. The origins of the gentlemen's political success is not lost on Tommy.
BO: Hey, stop by my reception after the swearing in tomorrow, okay?
RAFE: Yeah, but don't you go to his reception before you go to my THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 40.
TOMMY: Fine, but I'm gonna be real offended if either of you miss my They leave.
TOMMY: I think we have to have a AT THE BUFFET, as Tommy and Loretta help themselves generously to oysters and champagne, they overhear TWO MEMBERS passing by.
FIRST MEMBER: So then I ran an ad calling him a draft dodger, but then he ran an ad calling me a plagiarist.
SECOND MEMBER: What did you do?
FIRST MEMBER: Oh, leaked a rumor that his father- in-law was a Nazi. I went up ten points in a weekend.
TOMMY: ( to Loretta ) We're in the majors, doll.
KORNGOLD: Congressman? I'd like to introduce myself. Ken Korngold. National Distilled Spirits Association.
TOMMY: Tommy Johnson. Distilled Spirits, is that right?
KORNGOLD: It's super that you won, congressman. Any way we can help, please don't hesitate.
TOMMY: Pleasure's all mine, Ken, hope you can make it to my reception. Do you happen to have a card?
KORNGOLD: ( giving him one ) I sure do.
TOMMY: You now what I love about this place? The way everyone calls you a Member. Every time I hear that, it makes me think of Mr. Happy The Member next to him bursts out laughing.
TOMMY: Don't you be peeing on my shoe. They go to the sinks. The Member introduces himself.
IOWA: Mike Strangland. Iowa first CD.
TOMMY: You got a CD? Shit, I missed that, too.
IOWA: First Congressional district.
TOMMY: Ohhh. Tommy Johnson. Florida. So Iowa how'd you get to Washington? You do the crop report on tv? IOWA has a big open face and a flat Midwestern voice.
IOWA: No I owe it all to the Vietnamese.
TOMMY: War hero?
IOWA: P.O.W. When I got back to Cedar Rapids, I spent so many years telling the Rotary Club what was wrong in Washington, they finally told me to put up or shut up so I put up. And here I am.
TOMMY: Wait a minute. What's wrong in C'mon there's acid rain killing fish, and no one's stopping it. there's topsoil washing away, and no erosion program. there's chemicals in our livestock God, I sound like a Boy Scout.
IOWA: C'mon there's acid rain killing fish, and no one's stopping it. there's topsoil washing away, and no erosion program. there's chemicals in our livestock God, I sound like a Boy Scout.
TOMMY: That's alright, Iowa this place could use a few geeks like you.
FIRST LOBBYIST: Pete Slocum. Asbestos Information Mike Gustofson. Freedom to Advertise Coalition.
SECOND LOBBYIST: Mike Gustofson. Freedom to Advertise Coalition.
THIRD LOBBYIST: Paul Zeckhauser. American Tobacco Hey. thank you. nice to see you. hope you can make it to my reception. Have y'all met Miss TOMMY'S TABLEMATE is lawyer-lobbyist TOMMY O'CONNOR, 40s. As Waiters serve lobster bisque, he hands TJ a business Tommy O'Connor. Soon as I saw how you got elected, I knew you were a real comer. Hell, I bet old Olaf Andersen voted for you.
TOMMY: Hey. thank you. nice to see you. hope you can make it to my reception. Have y'all met Miss TOMMY'S TABLEMATE is lawyer-lobbyist TOMMY O'CONNOR, 40s. As Waiters serve lobster bisque, he hands TJ a business Tommy O'Connor. Soon as I saw how you got elected, I knew you were a real comer. Hell, I bet old Olaf Andersen voted for you.
O'CONNOR: Tommy O'Connor. Soon as I saw how you got elected, I knew you were a real comer. Hell, I bet old Olaf Andersen voted for you.
TOMMY: Who's Olaf Andersen?
O'CONNOR: Pays the rent, know what I mean? Say, could I host a little welcome- to-Washington thing for you down at my law firm? Meet some of my clients, five hundred a head you could pick up twenty, twenty-five grand to get you started.
TOMMY: ( cautious ) And how much of that do you get?
O'CONNOR: ( amused )
TOMMY: Tommy, I think this is the beginning of a beautiful relationship.
DODGE: Tonight we unite the two great pillars of our system political and financial. To the forty-four newly-elected Members of Congress, I say, Look around you tonight. Look around, and be thankful for the generosity. Tommy inspects the sea of barracudas.
DODGE: The people you see not only provided tonight's hospitality. They are the people you serve. That's our system of checks and balances at its best. Their support helped get you elected. your work will help them. and their support will help you in your next campaign, which I remind you is already less than two years away.
DODGE: You know, Mr. Johnson, it's customary for new Members to pay a courtesy call on the old fogies in the leadership. Especially from their HOME STATE.
TOMMY: Well, I would have, but I just got to town. It's an honor to meet you, sir. A real privilege. This is Miss Loretta.
LORETTA: Public liaison. She pronounces the word so carefully, it sounds lewd.
DODGE: How do you do? You could make up for it by having a nightcap with me. May I have my car take you home?
TOMMY: Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, but this ain't no homo shit we up to, is it?
DODGE: No. No, it's not. But Good thinking, Johnson. I'm impressed by your instincts.
DODGE: Tell me, Johnson. Why did you come to Washington?
TOMMY: Well. of course. it's a chance to do something for my country. I mean, there's the topsoil thing, and acid rain is killing the cattle
DODGE: Cut the bullshit, Johnson. I saw how you got elected. Flukes like you are either nutcases or troublemakers. I just want to know which one I have on my hands. Who sent you here?
TOMMY: No one sent me.
DODGE: You pulled off that upset on your Kid's got his talents.
TOMMY: ( acknowledging modestly ) Kid's got his talents.
DODGE: I'm impressed, Johnson, I am. But why did you run for Congress?
TOMMY: No bullshit?
DODGE: No bullshit.
TOMMY: Opportunity knocks. This town is the fuckin' Yukon. A stunned silence from Dodge then deep and generous What a refreshing answer. He laughs again, richly amused. Tommy joins in the Shining in the bright sun.
DODGE: What a refreshing answer. He laughs again, richly amused. Tommy joins in the Shining in the bright sun.
TOMMY: Food. drinks.
LORETTA: ( reads card ) Ken Korngold, National Distilled Spirits Association. Bob Rafferty .Wisconsin Cheese Board. ( to Tommy ) What do you want me to do?
TOMMY: You're on cheese. I'll handle He reaches for the phone.
KORNGOLD: How are you on this helluva fine day! I'm looking forward to your INTERCUT TOMMY AND KORNGOLD Actually, that's why I'm calling, Ken. You said if I needed some You name it, congressman. Issue papers, testimony, floor speeches
TOMMY: Actually, that's why I'm calling, Ken. You said if I needed some You name it, congressman. Issue papers, testimony, floor speeches
KORNGOLD: You name it, congressman. Issue papers, testimony, floor speeches
TOMMY: Tell you what I have in mind. I was just thinking, wouldn't it be a plus for old Ken Korngold if I was to how should I put this showcase some of his distillers' products at my reception? You know, like they put Reese's pieces in E.T.? It's called "product placement." People come in, they have a tremendous time, they see your products, they think well of you and they think well of me, too. It's good for both of us, Ken. What do you say?
KORNGOLD: Well, it's a new one on me, but hey, sure, I think we can help you out. Say, while I have you on the line, there was one thing.
SPEAKER: Do you solemnly swear that you will support and defend the Constitution of the United States. ON GRANDMA next to Tommy, eyes welling with pride. It's the one day a year that non-Members ( meaning families ) can be on the floor.
SPEAKER: . against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that you will bear true faith and allegiance to the same.
GRANDMA: It's just that I'm so happy you straightened out. Tommy smiles ambiguously. As APPLAUSE continues, his eyes roam the room and make contact with Dick Dodge, standing at one of the leadership tables. Tommy winks conspiratorially at him. There's such diabolical glee in it, it even takes Dodge aback.
INSERT: Celia's hands print CELIA KIRBY. PRO BONO. BACK TO SCENE - ON Tommy and Reinhardt talking with a
FOURTH LOBBYIST: It's an informal breakfast. You give us your views, we give you bacon and eggs, plus a couple of thousand dollar honorarium. For your favorite charity. Tommy looks at Reinhardt, who explains.
REINHARDT: The Tommy Johnson Foundation.
TOMMY: ( savoring the word ) Honorarium. I like that.
LORETTA: Herring, gentlemen?
FOURTH LOBBYIST: Uh, no thanks.
LORETTA: Really? We've got it in cream sauce and in wine sauce.
REINHARDT: I think I'll pass. Tommy steers her aside and takes a roll of soggy, toothpick-impaled herring.
TOMMY: What is this? Where's the cheese?
LORETTA: The cheese guy didn't return my call. So I called the guy at the American Smoked Fish Institute. She points at the food table. There's nothing but a few boxes of crackers and two huge mounds of herring one white, one pink. The centerpiece is a large smoked fish, eyes staring accusingly.
TOMMY: Oh, that's just wonderful. Sixty heavy hitters drop in, and I'm feeding 'em cat food. He breaks off, as Celia comes into view in the doorway behind. Tommy picks her up on his radar.
TOMMY: We'll talk about this later. We follow Tommy through the crowd until he reaches Celia.
TOMMY: Hi there. Glad you could make it. So you're. Celia Kirby. That's an extremely beautiful name. For an extremely beautiful woman.
CELIA: Wow! That's smooth. After ten straight hours on my feet making small talk and breathing cheap cigar smoke, that's exactly the kind of line I'm ready to fall for.
TOMMY: Whoa, slow down.
CELIA: Sure, sure, forget it. Can you just tell me, which one's Congressman THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 49B.
TOMMY: What if I said. me?
CELIA: Oh. I see. So tell me, Congressman, just how deep is the shit I'm standing in? Tommy has to laugh.
TOMMY: Don't worry about it. Why don't we just start over again?
CELIA: Celia Kirby. I'm the legislative director of Pro Bono.
TOMMY: Ah. Pro Bon. That's an extremely beautiful name. For an extremely beautiful organization. Um. what is it?
CELIA: ( amused ) We're a public interest research and advocacy group. I'd like to brief you on our priorities this session. Can I call your AA to get on your schedule?
TOMMY: Why don't you brief me over dinner I want an appointment, Congressman, not a date.
CELIA: I want an appointment, Congressman, not a date.
TOMMY: Yeah, sure, we'll type it up on the schedule, it'll be an appointment, except with wine and flowers on the No thanks. I really should be going.
CELIA: No thanks. I really should be going.
TOMMY: Won't you at least stay for a drink and some herring?
CELIA: I'm afraid I'm busy.
TOMMY: Well then, can I tempt you with a No thanks. Nice to meet you. I'll be in touch with your office. I especially look forward to hearing your view on extending the sexual harassment law to include congressmen.
CELIA: No thanks. Nice to meet you. I'll be in touch with your office. I especially look forward to hearing your view on extending the sexual harassment law to include congressmen.
TOMMY: I love the way you say that.
DODGE: I heard in the steam room you're going to try to screw up my ethics Not screw up. Amend.
MARSHALL: Not screw up. Amend.
DODGE: Come on, Eli, your amendments don't have a chance in hell to pass. My bill isn't perfect, I know, but it'll pass. And the President'll sign it.
MARSHALL: "Isn't perfect"? Dick, your bill's the Incumbents Protection Act! How can you even call it an ethics bill?
DODGE: Because the public wants an ethics bill! So that's what we call it.
MARSHALL: But it's got no teeth! It won't change a thing, and you know it.
DODGE: Come on, Eli, you're a politician, too. The less you're going to do about something, the more you have to talk about it. You know that. They start walking.
MARSHALL: I see. We close the bank, we stop the rubber checks, we raise the prices in the barber shop, we stop fixing parking tickets, and abracadabra! We say we've cleaned up Congress. Well, I don't think the American people want what this place has become.
DODGE: That's the beauty of it! They must, Eli they keep re-electing Not anymore! This new Congress is full of new faces.
MARSHALL: Not anymore! This new Congress is full of new faces.
DODGE: Oh, I wouldn't read too much into that. A few extra retirements, some redistricting nothing more than that. It's still business as usual up here. Dodge takes his glasses from his pocket and wipes them.
DODGE: I live in the real world, Eli. Do you? What's unemployment up to in your district? Eight percent? Eight-five?
MARSHALL: Eight point six.
DODGE: Power and Enterprise is about to fund a solar demonstration plant, Eli. It could mean a whole lot to a district new jobs, new construction that interest you?
MARSHALL: You can't bribe me, Dick.
DODGE: Eli, the people who elected you. They sent you here to help them. Don't you want to?
MARSHALL: Not if it means supporting your bill. All you want is the perfect platform to campaign for Speaker. Dick Dodge. Mr. Clean. What a joke!
DODGE: ( undeterred ) Come on board, Eli. ( leaning in ) You know you can't save the world if you can't save your seat.
MARSHALL: We haven't met. Eli Marshall.
TOMMY: Tommy Johnson.
MARSHALL: I know. The Florida upset. Well, now that you're here, what are you going to do with it? You gonna feather your own nest, or are you gonna make something of your office?
TOMMY: I plan to be as good a congressman as all the others.
MARSHALL: Exactly what does that mean?
TOMMY: Well, ever since I got back from Nam, I've wanted to do something about the rain forest
MARSHALL: No, do me a favor, don't tell me. I try not to get depressed until the second week of a new Eli, you'll excuse us we have a Johnson, I'm the chairman of a committee up here called Power and Industry. We've got an open seat, and I was wondering if you'd consider filling it.
DODGE: ( ushering Tommy into Eli, you'll excuse us we have a Johnson, I'm the chairman of a committee up here called Power and Industry. We've got an open seat, and I was wondering if you'd consider filling it.
DODGE: Johnson, I'm the chairman of a committee up here called Power and Industry. We've got an open seat, and I was wondering if you'd consider filling it.
TOMMY: Is this good news?
DODGE: ( tongue in cheek ) Well, it is a difficult assignment look at what we cover: energy, health, telecommunications, environment. the committee is constantly beset by a swarm of special interests. These are powerful people, they've got all the money in the world, and they're not shy about using it.
TOMMY: So. this is very good news.
DODGE: Most members would give their right nut for it.
TOMMY: So what do you want from me, Dick?
DODGE: Congressman. I just want you to smile for the cameras.
REINHARDT: ( indicating dais ) So, Congressman, welcome to the honey pot. You should be one happy freshman.
TOMMY: Yeah? Well, I'm not. I'm suspicious. One thing I've learned is, when somebody gives you something for nothing, the nothing ain't nothing. It's something. What is it? Why Reinhardt puts his hand on Tommy's shoulders.
REINHARDT: Congressman, I don't want you to take this the wrong way, but. you're black. And I mean that in the nicest possible way.
TOMMY: Keep talking.
REINHARDT: Dodge wants to run for Speaker. And he ain't gonna make it without votes from the black caucus. Suddenly, Dodge reappears. He throws his arm around Tommy's shoulders.
DODGE: Tommy, someone I want you to meet. Dodge steers TJ to a preppy-looking man at the witness table BARCLAY "SKEETER" WARBURTON.
DODGE: Skeeter, do you know Tommy Johnson? Meet the new member of the committee. Tommy, this is Barclay Warburton.
TOMMY: Pleased to meet you, Barclay. WARBURTON'S voice is aristocratic, a la George Plimpton.
WARBURTON: Skeeter. Please. Been called that since boarding school.
TOMMY: Damned fine to meet you. As Dodge and Tommy head for the dais, Tommy imitates Warburton's lockjaw.
WARBURTON: Damned fine to meet you. As Dodge and Tommy head for the dais, Tommy imitates Warburton's lockjaw.
TOMMY: "Tommy. Please. Been called that since reform school." Dodge chuckles, shakes his head in mock rebuke. Tommy takes his seat at the lower dais, smiles at the Members on his left and right.
DODGE: This EPA oversight hearing of the Committee on Power and Industry will come to order. I'd like to welcome our first witness, the distinguished Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. . but before I do, I note that a new Member is joining us today, the distinguished gentleman from THE BIGGEST EXPLOSION OF FLASHES YET. and as the motor drives whir, Tommy flashes his biggest smile yet.
FIFTH LOBBYIST: Morning. Ron Yaeger. Snack-PAC Snack Foods Political Action Committee. I have a ten o'clock.
LORETTA: Please have a seat. The congressman is running just a little bit late. He sits and opens his briefcase. Van Dyke approaches him with the dignity of a superb butler.
VAN DYKE: Would you care for some herring?
TOMMY: Let me start with a confession. I don't know much about poultry. But I do know something about people. And let me tell you: I like you people. So when you have something to say about poultry, I listen. Thank you very much. He sits down to generous APPLAUSE. ON Armando, in attendance, CLAPPING, marveling at the response TJ gets.
TOMMY: My man. He blows a kiss to a pretty Teller in the credit union. Passing the barber shop, he calls out to the Shoeshine Guy. He passes a black TELEPHONE MAN at an open panel of Tommy! What's up, man?
TELEPHONE MAN: Tommy! What's up, man?
TOMMY: ( whispering ) Sweet Sue. Third race at Santa Anita.
TOMMY: Hey, how you folks doin', good to see you, Van Dyke making you comfortable? Tommy hits a button on a tape deck, turning on some EASY
TOMMY: Be with y'all shortly. BEHIND THE DIVIDER, outside Tommy's office door, Tommy has a word with Reinhardt. Tommy indicates his office.
TOMMY: She in there? Reinhardt nods. Tommy gives himself a couple of squirts of Stick around for this, Reinhardt. I've finally figured something out about the women in this town.
TOMMY: Stick around for this, Reinhardt. I've finally figured something out about the women in this town.
CELIA: Thank you for seeing us, congressman, we won't take up much of your time. This is Ira Schecter, our research Hi, good to meet you, you folks know Reinhardt, don't you? Don't rush, Miss Kirby, we can take as long as we want.
TJ: Hi, good to meet you, you folks know Reinhardt, don't you? Don't rush, Miss Kirby, we can take as long as we want.
CELIA: But you have people waiting, and
TOMMY: That's all right. They can wait.
CELIA: She pulls documents from her briefcase and hands them to
CELIA: These are issue papers. This session we're targeting auto insurance premiums, child safety, and food additives. As votes come up, we know you'll be hearing plenty from the other side. We'd just like a clean shot at making our case, too.
TOMMY: Wait a minute, you just got here. I clean my calendar, and you're out the door. Let's back up, give this stuff the attention it deserves. Car insurance. Ira, what do you Oh, I've got an '85 Plymouth, about six-fifty a year.
IRA: Oh, I've got an '85 Plymouth, about six-fifty a year.
TOMMY: Six-fifty? Highway robbery! A chop shop wouldn't give you more than a hundred forty for a junker like that. Or so I've heard. But I'm flying blind here, I need depth. Could Miss Kirby put together a briefing? Maybe schedule a Saturday or two to really dig into the issues?
IRA: ( surprised and pleased ) Oh. we'd be delighted. We've got some figures that will amaze you.
TOMMY: I'm sure you do.
CELIA: ( rising ) Well, we won't take up any more.
TOMMY: Whoa, whoa, hold on, what about child safety?
CELIA: Well, we're sponsoring a bill imposing safety standards on imported toys.
TOMMY: Great! About time! I hate imported toys. What about food additives? How about we block out a few evenings, you can take me through the details.
IRA: Celia, if that's what the Congressman wants. any problem?
CELIA: ( to him ) You want to do this in the evening?
IRA: I'm away for the next two weeks. She gives him a look. Ira turns to Tommy.
IRA: So, when can Celia start your Saturday night?
TOMMY: Saturday night?
IRA: Saturday night sounds fine.
CELIA: Fine. Wednesday morning. Nine- On a door in the House sub-basement: MEMBERS ONLY.
TOMMY: Let's get serious, fellas.
MARSHALL: I need your help on the ethics bill, Leon. I want you to co- sponsor my amendments.
BULLDOG: You make a persuasive case, Eli.
MARSHALL: That wasn't a yes.
BULLDOG: ( courteously I promise to give it the attention it deserves.
BULLDOG: Better luck next time, son. and leaves them. Tommy and Marshall continue on.
MARSHALL: He took six hundred dollars off you that last hand, didn't he?
TOMMY: Yeah, he's taking a real shine to If I didn't know better, I'd say you lost to him on purpose.
MARSHALL: If I didn't know better, I'd say you lost to him on purpose.
TOMMY: Nothing wrong with letting the chairman of the ethics committee roll you once in a while.
MARSHALL: ( shaking his head ) You fit in real well up here. Too So Eli, how come you haven't asked for my help with your amendments?
TOMMY: So Eli, how come you haven't asked for my help with your amendments?
MARSHALL: Give it a rest, Tommy. You've got a great jump shot. But everyone knows you're Dick Dodge's boy.
TOMMY: ( bristling ) I'm nobody's boy, mister.
MARSHALL: ( weary ) Don't waste your outrage on me. I know what you are.
TOMMY: I'm no different from anyone else.
MARSHALL: That's not true. Some people here actually try to do something besides save their own ass.
TOMMY: You know, Eli, I like you, I really do. You remind me of my father.
MARSHALL: Oh, really? How so?
TOMMY: He thought I was scum, too. BELLS begin RINGING and LIGHTS FLASHING on all the clocks and sconces down the corridor. Three RINGS, pause, three RINGS, pause. Marshall does a U-turn. Tommy doesn't follow suit.
MARSHALL: Aren't you going to vote?
TOMMY: ( indicating clocks ) Vote? Is that what that is? We got a pool going in the office on when it'll go off next.
TEACHER: Excuse me Congressman? Do you have a moment? We're from the Hawthorne Avenue School, in Union, New Jersey? I'm Mrs. Kozlowski. Social Studies. We were just learning how a bill becomes a law.
BELLS ): Was that a vote?
TOMMY: Yes, it was.
TEACHER: And what did you vote?
TOMMY: I voted "Nay." It's a terrible bill. It'd destroy the fabric of American life.
TEACHER: And what was the vote on?
TOMMY: Hey, Rafe! Tell these kids what that vote was about.
RAFE: Well, it was a motion to reconsider the motion to reconsider.
BO: No, it was the rule on amending the Which means?
TOMMY: Which means?
BO: Clean Air.
RAFE: ( overlapping ) School lunches.
TOMMY: You're in excellent hands, kids.
O'CONNOR: You're a gentleman, Tommy. We can always do bid'ness I like that in a Member.
TOMMY: Thank you, Tommy. I love you too.
O'CONNOR: Listen, I'd like to do more money for you I just need to know your positions on a few issues.
O'CONNOR: For instance, where are you on sugar price supports?
TOMMY: Sugar price supports. Where do you think I should be, Tommy?
O'CONNOR: Shit makes no difference to me. If you're for 'em, I got money for you from my sugar producers in Louisiana and Hawaii. If you're against 'em, I got money for you from the candy manufacturers.
TOMMY: You pick.
O'CONNOR: ( writing ) Let's put you down as for. Now what about putting limits on malpractice awards?
TOMMY: You tell me.
O'CONNOR: Well, if you're for 'em, I got money from the doctors and insurance companies. If you're against 'em, I got money from the trial lawyers. Tell you what, let's say against. Now how about I'll stick with the salad.
TOMMY: ( indicating his plate ) I'll stick with the salad.
O'CONNOR: Not for lunch, shmuck, for PAC money. A lot of the frozen pizzas use phony cheese. There's a law pending requiring them to disclose it on their labels. Where do you stand? Tommy thinks it through.
TOMMY: If I vote for the labels.then I get money from the dairy industry.
O'CONNOR: And if I vote against the labels, I get money from the frozen food Excellent! And don't forget the ranchers, because they get hurt if pepperoni sales go down!
TOMMY: And if I vote against the labels, I get money from the frozen food Excellent! And don't forget the ranchers, because they get hurt if pepperoni sales go down!
O'CONNOR: Excellent! And don't forget the ranchers, because they get hurt if pepperoni sales go down!
TOMMY: ( laughing in A pepperoni lobby. I love this So which is it?
O'CONNOR: So which is it?
TOMMY: Fuck the cheese people. Thanks to them my office smelled like smelt for a week.
O'CONNOR: All right. For.
TOMMY: So Tommy, tell me with all this money on every side, how does anything get done?
O'CONNOR: It doesn't! That's the genius of the system!
CELIA: It comes down to a question of what is acceptable risk. Are we willing to feed our kids a substance that causes cancer in lab rats? More important, who gets to make the decision? Bureaucrats and big corporations, or the people whose lives depend on it?
VAN DYKE: Mr. Willie? Congressman Johnson is calling. Can you take his call? Thank you. Please hold. Van Dyke puts him on hold, counts to three, gets back on the line.
VAN DYKE: I'm sorry, Mr. Willie, he just picked up another call. Listen, I know why he was calling he hasn't heard from you about his PAN TO Armando.
ARMANDO: . That's right, Mr. Brown, on the thirtieth. A thousand a couple.A whole table? He'll be so happy to hear it. Thank you so Loretta! Put down nuclear power for ten g's. PAN TO Loretta, who chalks the figure onto a toteboard.
LORETTA: ( into phone ) Mr. Newburg? It's Miss Loretta, from Congressman Johnson's office, how you doin'?
LORETTA: Say, the congressman's going to be out your way next week. Palm Springs, the Bob Hope Classic yes, a celebrity player. As long as he's on the coast, we were wondering whether you aerospace people might want to lay on a lunch so you can hear his views. Uh-huh . Uh-huh. Lovely. Now what kind of contribution to his foundation you folks thinking about?
CELIA: .And in the 1988 study, it was up to eight per hundred-thousand. Um.am I losing you on these mortality rates?
TOMMY: No, I was just wondering how much of this is a statutory problem, and how much is a regulatory one? I mean, didn't the Merton Act cover most of this?
CELIA: ( surprised ) Hmmm, that's an excellent point. Let me see something.
CELIA: Wow.you're right. Maybe we can get them to amend Merton-Simmons. RACK FOCUS.reveals REINHARDT in b.g., sitting at another computer terminal. He is typing in Tommy's responses, which appear on Tommy's screen.
TOMMY: Well, for Merton to apply you have to show high contagion.sounds to me like your contagion rates are no higher than the common clod. In b.g., Reinhardt DIVES FORWARD to his keyboard and begins correcting his typo. Celia looks puzzled.
TOMMY: Common cold. Must have picked up a little dyslexia over the weekend.
CELIA: I see. Well, I must say I'm pretty You're also impressively pretty.
TOMMY: You're also impressively pretty.
CELIA: Oh come on.
TOMMY: You're right. Sorry. Excuse me a Without explanation, he THROWS HIS PENCIL hard out of A jet flies through the sky.
GUN LOBBYIST: Frankly, we think the semi-automatic has gotten a bad rap. That's why the American Sporting Gun Users PAC put together this trip. ON TOMMY AND DODGE enjoying champagne and hors d'oeuvres.
TOMMY: Must have had a heart attack.
BOB HOPE: I knew all these congressmen get a slice, but I didn't know it was that big.
TOMMY: Did you miss me?
CELIA: Where did you go?
TOMMY: Oh, a fact-finding mission, some issue conferences, a few speaking engagements, a charity event. the More like the Petroleum Institute Ski Cup, the NRA Open, the
CELIA: More like the Petroleum Institute Ski Cup, the NRA Open, the
TOMMY: Hey. Have lunch with me tomorrow.
CELIA: I can't we're having a press What is it the ozone layer? No fault? Killer apples?
TOMMY: What is it the ozone layer? No fault? Killer apples?
CELIA: ( laughing ) Toy safety. Wait a minute. Tomorrow's Friday. Aren't you back early?
TOMMY: ( beaming ) You remembered! That means you missed me.
TOMMY: So, how'd you end up hustling for Pro Bono instead of pesticides? I mean, you could have been a big- time lawyer, right?
CELIA: Oh, I was for a while. It. depressed me.
TOMMY: At a hundred grand a year, how depressed can you get? Doesn't it depress you to lose all the Sometimes. Mostly it gets me angry. And the anger keeps me going. Sure, I wouldn't mind winning a few. And it's not like I'm allergic to money.
CELIA: Sometimes. Mostly it gets me angry. And the anger keeps me going. Sure, I wouldn't mind winning a few. And it's not like I'm allergic to money.
TOMMY: So why do you do it? She skips a stone on the water.
CELIA: God, it's so embarrassing to come out and say it.
TOMMY: Say it.
CELIA: Meaning. I need my life to mean THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 69.
CELIA: My question is, how'd you get named after a Memorial?
TOMMY: Grandma like Jefferson. Y'know, "Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." It's a lot to live up to, so I specialized in the last part.
CELIA: And how's the pursuit going?
TOMMY: Fine.'til I met you. Now.the better I do, the worse I feel. They have stopped walking. They are standing close together. They kiss.
TOMMY: So.when can I see you again? How about dinner Saturday night? She shakes her head.
CELIA: How about Sunday morning?
TOMMY: 104 INT. OLD CHURCH - BALTIMORE - DAY 104
MARSHALL: The wages of sin is death! And to the man who values Gold over Goodness.the Lord allows no REVEAL TOMMY and Celia in the front pew. Marshall appears to be preaching directly to Tommy, who wears a slightly sick smile.
MARSHALL: To the man who shows no respect for the privilege of walking this Earth, God allows no deductions!
TOMMY: ( aside to Celia ) This is one hell of a date.
MARSHALL: Hello, darling. Glad you could make it.
CELIA: I liked the sermon, Uncle Eli.
TOMMY: Uncle Eli?
MARSHALL: My niece says you're not half as slimy as I thought.
TOMMY: Your niece?
MARSHALL: That would put you somewhere between a lizard and a toad. Quite a step up. Tommy looks from Marshall to Celia and back again.
TOMMY: How could I have missed the family resemblance?
TOMMY: Ladies! Looking good! How can I help you folks today! But Hattie Rifkin and her troops will have none of it.
HATTIE: Don't "Ladies!" me, you dick! The camera lights go on.
DODGE: Now let me get this straight. You voted to make people on Medicare pay more money to their doctors?
TOMMY: The Medical Association made a persuasive case. Ten grand from their PAC, plus Christmas in Aspen.
DODGE: ( shaking his head ) Tommy if I'm not mistaken, you wouldn't be here without the good senior citizens of your district. You got to dance with the girl that brung you, son. If you have a bit of business to do, do it quietly. in the corridors. in the subcommittees. with little amendments. You mess around on the big ones like Medicare, you'll be dead meat on election day.
TOMMY: Yeah, well, then it's thanks for the memories, and on to the next Do you know what your problem is, son? You don't think big enough. You have a real knack for this town, but you have the soul of a two-bit hustler. Listen to me, THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 72.
DODGE: Do you know what your problem is, son? You don't think big enough. You have a real knack for this town, but you have the soul of a two-bit hustler. Listen to me, THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 72.
TOMMY: Which is?
DODGE: Getting re-elected.
TOMMY: Wait a minute. You're talkin' 'bout my re-election?
DODGE: You don't know what percent of the incumbents who ran last time got re-elected, do you?
TOMMY: Fifty? Sixty?
DODGE: Ninety-six. And ninety-eight before that. It's like that election after election. If you don't fuck up, you can be here, raking it in, for life. Life, Tommy considers this. Then a big smile.
TOMMY: I can think of worse places to get life.
DODGE: ( smiles ) I knew you had it in you.
TOMMY: So how do I get the Silver Foxes off my ass?
DODGE: Oh, throw them a bone. why don't you co-sponsor a bill for mandatory universal health THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 73.
TOMMY: What's that mean?
DODGE: Nothing. It'll never pass.
VAN DYKE: May I help you?
MRS. JUBA: Yes, I'm Ellen Juba. This is my daughter, Mickey. We'd like to see our congressman. We live in the district.
VAN DYKE: Just a moment, please. Could you come out? Thank you. Be right with you. I like your hat. Loretta comes out and extends a hand.
LORETTA: How do you do, I'm Miss Loretta, public liaison for the congressman.
MRS. JUBA: Ellen Juba. My daughter Mickey. We'd like to see him.
LORETTA: Y'all from the district? Up here seein' the sights? How'd you folks like some gallery passes? Go on over and listen to the great debates of our day? She reaches into Van Dyke's desk drawer to get some passes.
MICKEY: We don't want to go to the gallery. We want to see Congressman Johnson.
LORETTA: How 'bout a House key ring for each of you? Here see that? Isn't that something? Turns into a pen.
MRS. JUBA: You don't understand. We're not tourists. We're constitutents.
LORETTA: ( helpfully ) You aren't with some organization, are you, honey?
MRS. JUBA: I'm a goddam citizen! Isn't that We're not leaving here till we see him! Loretta exchanges a look with the Lobbyists, who get the picture. She picks up the phone and speaks nonchalantly.
MICKEY: We're not leaving here till we see him! Loretta exchanges a look with the Lobbyists, who get the picture. She picks up the phone and speaks nonchalantly.
LORETTA: Oh, Armando? Could you come out front, please? Tommy enters, carrying an enormous tennis trophy.
TOMMY: Look what I won! Must be that new racket. Armando has come out to hear this.
ARMANDO: There a problem, congressman?
MRS. JUBA: Congressman? You? Armando tries to escort her out.
MRS. JUBA: Get your hands off me! Mickey tries to block Armando.
MICKEY: Let go of her, you creep!
SIXTH LOBBYIST: Careful, she may be armed!
MICKEY: Stop it! Get away from her! Armando, defending himself from Mickey, manages to knock her hat off. With the hat comes her ( apparently false ) pony tail. ON MICKEY. She's bald. Her skull bears the mark of surgery. Everyone stops. It's quiet. Mickey's eyes burn into Tommy's. Then she picks up her Come on, Ma. It's okay. Let's go.
MICKEY: Come on, Ma. It's okay. Let's go.
TOMMY: Wait. What happened to you?
MICKEY: 110 INT. TOMMY'S OFFICE - DAY 110
MICKEY: I was lucky. They said they got it all. I'm going to be okay. But what about the others?
TOMMY: The others?
MRS. JUBA: They call it a "cancer cluster." Oh, at first, none of us in the neighborhood wanted to believe it, but then we all saw it for me, it was when the two-year-old across the street developed a brain tumor, same as Mickey. We looked at everything the water, the air, dump sites, insects, you name it. But we didn't have to look that far. It was staring us in the face.
TOMMY: ( CONTINUED )
MICKEY: Power lines.
MRS. JUBA: High-voltage power lines. The wires cause magnetic fields and the magnetic fields cause cancer. Especially in children.
TOMMY: I never heard of that. Mickey pulls a stack of journals and xeroxes from her book bag and gives it to her mother, who in turn gives the materials to Tommy.
MRS. JUBA: The studies, the numbers it's all there.
MICKEY: ( to Tommy, skeptical ) You're not actually going to read those, are you?
TOMMY: ( caught ) Oh, they'll be read.
MICKEY: Why don't you come see for Tommy has no quick answer.
MRS. JUBA: Five children in the neighborhood have cancer. One more has precancerous lesions. Pregnant women around here are scared to THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 77.
TOMMY: This is Mickey's school?
MRS. JUBA: Turns out a lot of schools are near power lines. The land's cheap, so the schools tend to buy it from the power companies in the first place.
TOMMY: But isn't the school district We asked the superintendent to measure the magnetic field inside the school. He said, Okay, only it'll cost forty thousand dollars, and what program did we want him to cut that from?
MRS. JUBA: We asked the superintendent to measure the magnetic field inside the school. He said, Okay, only it'll cost forty thousand dollars, and what program did we want him to cut that from?
TOMMY: MRS. JUBA
MRS. JUBA: We're nobody, congressman. You're somebody. We need your help. Tommy takes Celia aside.
TOMMY: Do you believe it?
CELIA: It's impossible to know. No one's really looked into it hard enough.
TOMMY: But why isn't it being investigated?
CELIA: Why didn't they investigate breast implants all those years? What about those side-effects of that sleeping pill, Halcion? Why isn't anything being investigated? It's always the same.
TOMMY: Money talks.
CELIA: You got it.
TOMMY: There must be something I can do for those people.
CELIA: Don't tell me you're actually developing a conscience.
TOMMY: Shit, I hope not it'd be a fucking nuisance in Congress.
CELIA: No, that's not fair. Some people on the Hill actually believe in things, and try to do a decent job, and don't forget why they went to Washington, and who sent them.
TOMMY: ( amazed ) No shit. ( remembering ) Oh, yeah, I met one of those geeks. So what can I do?
CELIA: Make a stink. Round up some Members and hold a press conference. Get that committee of yours to hold hearings. Haul in in the Environmental Protection Agency, the Surgeon General, the National Academy of Sciences. Get the issue on every breakfast table in America.
IOWA: This goes beyond personal tragedy. It goes to a public health hazard of unknown proportions. It goes to the right of ordinary people to know all the facts
TOMMY: Yeah, right people ought to know if their neighborhoods are killing them.
DODGE: What a fine effort this is. I am totally sympathetic. Congressional hearings should be scheduled as soon as possible. The American people deserve no less.
DODGE: Message: we care.
CELIA: Well, congratulations. You've found yourself your own hopeless Speaking of hopeless causes.
TOMMY: Speaking of hopeless causes.
DODGE: ( pouring ) On the rocks, or neat?
TOMMY: Whatever you're having.
DODGE: Well, why ruin good bourbon with the taste of some shitty Sears icemaker, that's what I always say. Dodge downs his drink. Tommy follows suit.
TOMMY: Dodge downs his drink. Tommy follows suit.
DODGE: Son, you're a real comer. I wouldn't be surprised if you ended up in the leadership. I'll say this: if I were Speaker, I'd sleep better with you as a Why, thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know, to tell you the truth, I didn't know you'd be on my side on those power lines.
TOMMY: Why, thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know, to tell you the truth, I didn't know you'd be on my side on those power lines.
DODGE: But I'm not.
TOMMY: But you said you were sympathetic
DODGE: Of course I did. We're all sympathetic to little girls with cancer. But I'm not sympathetic to holding an inquiry.
TOMMY: But you said
DODGE: I know what I said. But that was just a press conference, son. I wasn't under oath. The intercom BUZZES.
DODGE: ( into phone ) Yes?. Bring them right in! ( hanging up ) Look. Son. It's great to get your name in the paper.
DODGE: What a surprise!
ANDERSEN: Mr. Chairman!
DODGE: Mr. Chairman! Hello, Tommy. Zeke you're looking well, good to see you.
ZEKE: ( wheezing ) Good to see you, you old sum' bitch.
O'CONNOR: Evening, Mr. Chairman, thanks for taking the Tommy, you s.o.b., they let you in here? You folks finally get to press flesh! Olaf, meet Tommy Johnson. Tommy, Olaf Andersen. Chairman of Gulf Coast The boys here have told me a lot about you.
TOMMY: The boys here have told me a lot about you.
O'CONNOR: Yeah I told him you voted for him! They all share a laugh. Except for Bridges, who squints at Tommy.
ANDERSEN: Glad to meet you, son. They tell me you've got a real talent for the THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 81A.
O'CONNOR: And this is Zeke Bridges, CEO of Pyramid Insurance.
ZEKE: ( still puzzling ) Good to meet you.
TOMMY: Good to meet you.
DODGE: Help me with these, would you, He hands Tommy a couple of drinks.
TOMMY: ( to Zeke ) Chivas on the rocks?
ZEKE: ( taking the drink ) You look awfully familiar.
DODGE: Tommy and I were just talking about power lines.
TOMMY: Yeah, what a coincidence. I thought this little party might be for me. You may not like this. I think we should hold those You really fell for the line that parents group fed you, didn't you? Tommy is struck by Dodge's intelligence.
DODGE: You really fell for the line that parents group fed you, didn't you? Tommy is struck by Dodge's intelligence.
TOMMY: How'd you know I met the parents THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 81B.
DODGE: Oh, I keep my ear to the ground, that's what a good politician does. Listen, Tommy, why don't we just get Olaf's take on this.
ANDERSEN: It's tragic, cancer's a terrible thing, but there's no way you can link it to power lines. Truth is, there's a bigger electromagnetic field given off by an electric blanket, or a microwave oven, than by those derricks.
TOMMY: But there are studies that say
ZEKE: For every study that says one thing, I'll show you a study saying another. We've studied it ourselves. Nada.
ANDERSEN: There's not a single state health official anywhere in this country who says power lines cause cancer.
TOMMY: But what if you're wrong? As Tommy persists, Andersen looks increasingly angry.
TOMMY: People didn't use to say smoking causes cancer, either. What if the evidence is just building, and some day we wake up and discover that your power lines are killing us?
ANDERSEN: ( exploding ) "Kill us"? "Kill us"? You calling me a murderer? You're saying there's blood on these hands? How dare you talk to me like that, you
O'CONNOR: Calm down, Olaf, calm down, he didn't mean it that way, did you, son? Alright, gentlemen. Easy.
ANDERSEN: Tommy do you want to move the power lines? Do you know how much it would cost to bury them? Millions. Tens of millions. I don't have that money. The state doesn't have that money. You people up here sure don't have that money. You know who'd end up paying for it? Folks who sent you here, that's who.
O'CONNOR: Now how'd you like the people in your district to think of you as the putz who tripled their electric bill? You think they'd thank you for that on election day?
TOMMY: All I'm saying is, maybe we should hold hearings to look at
O'CONNOR: Think for a minute, boychik. You hold your hearings. Overnight, everyone who lives near a substation finds the value of his home in the toilet. You kill the real estate You kill the insurance companies.
ZEKE: You kill the insurance companies.
O'CONNOR: You kill the school district.
ANDERSON: You kill the local economy.
DODGE: For a smart boy, you're not thinking very politically. Tommy watches the LIGHTNING.
TOMMY: Maybe I should think about it.
DODGE: Yeah, the system ain't perfect, but the fleas come with the dawg.
ANDERSEN: Oh, by the way, Tommy, on a completely different subject You don't have a state PAC yet, do you? I'd like to give you a hundred thousand dollar corporate contribution to start one My company would be honored to do the same.
ZEKE: My company would be honored to do the same.
TJ: Can you do that? I thought there were limits
O'CONNOR: Oh, it's all aboveboard, we all believe deeply in the rules. It's just that the state rules are often more flexible about these things.
ANDERSEN: Are you interested?
TJ: I'm always interested in the happiness of my constituents.
DODGE: I'll drink to that.
CELIA: ( CONTINUED )
TOMMY: So what did he say?
CELIA: So what did he say?
TOMMY: Dodge. The hearings.
CELIA: Dodge. The hearings.
TOMMY: Oh I, uh, haven't asked him yet. Celia suddenly looks quite awake.
TOMMY: ( casual ) It wasn't the right moment. Besides, I was thinking, maybe I ought to line up some other Members first you know, get my ducks in a row.
CELIA: 120 INT. HOUSE STEAM ROOM - DAY 120
DODGE: You see that ABC poll?
THIRD MEMBER: Free fall.
DODGE: President in trouble like that, he's liable to do something desperate. Some damn fool stunt.
FOURTH MEMBER: Invade Japan.
FIFTH MEMBER: Declare war on Congress, more like THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 3/25/92 85A.
MARSHALL: You shafted me on the ethics bill.
DODGE: Hello, Eli, good to see you. Why don't you loosen your tie?
MARSHALL: It's a closed rule. I can't get my amendments on the floor. I can't get a recorded vote. I can't get squat.
DODGE: Last time I looked, it was the Rules Committee in charge of that. This isn't the Rules Committee, Eli. This is the steam room.
MARSHALL: This is the U.S. Congress! The American people deserve better than
DODGE: You know what your problem is, Eli? You've got sermonitis. The other Members chuckle.
DODGE: Can't open your mouth without climbing into the pulpit, can you? Why don't you just calm down, have a massage
MARSHALL: I've got news for you, Dick. I'm going to run against you for Speaker. I may not have a rat's ass of a chance to beat you. But I sure as hell can tell the world the kind of sleaze you stand for.
DODGE: I went too far with him, I know it. You know him pretty well, don't you?
TOMMY: Oh, I don't know.
DODGE: Come on, you play basketball together, you're seeing his niece, you've been to his church
TOMMY: How did you know that?
DODGE: He'll listen to you, Tommy. I want you to go make peace between us. Tell him we'll work something out on his amendments not a vote, I won't go that far, but at least he'll get to say his piece on the floor. Just get him off my back. Can you do that for me?
TOMMY: That's not a question, is it?
DODGE: That's right. Is there a problem?
TOMMY: No, no I've still got my right nut, I can work with that.
WAITER: Sure, why not. Marshall takes a boiled crab from the platter between them, places it on the butcher paper in front of him, christens The honorable Dick Dodge. raises a big wooden mallet, and SMASHES it on the crab, You know, Eli, sometimes people do things they regret. Everyone makes mistakes. Fact is, Dick's been under a lot of pressure lately
TOMMY: Sure, why not. Marshall takes a boiled crab from the platter between them, places it on the butcher paper in front of him, christens The honorable Dick Dodge. raises a big wooden mallet, and SMASHES it on the crab, You know, Eli, sometimes people do things they regret. Everyone makes mistakes. Fact is, Dick's been under a lot of pressure lately
MARSHALL: The honorable Dick Dodge. raises a big wooden mallet, and SMASHES it on the crab, You know, Eli, sometimes people do things they regret. Everyone makes mistakes. Fact is, Dick's been under a lot of pressure lately
TOMMY: You know, Eli, sometimes people do things they regret. Everyone makes mistakes. Fact is, Dick's been under a lot of pressure lately
MARSHALL: That man's a walking quid quo pro prid quo quid pro quo, and you know it. He put you up to this, didn't he?
TOMMY: What do you mean?
MARSHALL: Don't shit me, Tommy. You're Dick Dodge's yes-man. I know what you're up to. This is damage I'm not a yes-man. When Dick says no, I say no. Marshall SMASHES down again with the mallet. Crab carnage.
TOMMY: I'm not a yes-man. When Dick says no, I say no. Marshall SMASHES down again with the mallet. Crab carnage.
MARSHALL: You know why no one on the Hill drops a dime on anyone else? Mutual assured destruction. Our little gentleman's agreement. Everybody has something on somebody, so nobody has anything on anybody, because everybody wants to save his own ass.
TOMMY: ( interested ) Oh, yeah? What do they have on you?
MARSHALL: They think I'm a pompous ass.
TOMMY: Shit, that ain't no secret.
LORETTA: You sure they don't want to be alone, Reinhardt?
REINHARDT: No, no I bet they've been talking about the ethics bill all night. Come on, Loretta, you'll know how to get Marshall's mind off business.
MARSHALL: Shit, this place isn't about passing laws any more. It isn't about doing good any more. All it's about is. being here.
LORETTA: Well, as I live and breathe. Tommy! Tommy is surprised to see them. She flashes a smile at Eli, this is Loretta Hicks, from my staff. Loretta, Congressman Marshall.
TOMMY: Eli, this is Loretta Hicks, from my staff. Loretta, Congressman Marshall.
LORETTA: Pleasure to meet you.
MARSHALL: Entirely mine.
TOMMY: You know Reinhardt, my AA? Marshall nods. Reinhardt turns to Tommy.
REINHARDT: Excuse me, congressman, could I just do a couple of quick calendar things with you?
MARSHALL: ( to Loretta ) Would you care for a drink?
LORETTA: Tell you the truth, nothing for me.
MARSHALL: Well, when a pretty lady shoots him down, an old man knows it's time to go home. Marshall rises, pulling out his car keys.
MARSHALL: You kids have a good time.
REINHARDT: ( indicating pitcher ) Listen, you gentlemen look like you've had a few Loretta, why don't you be a designated driver?
LORETTA: Excellent idea.
MARSHALL: Ah. The good Samaritan.
LORETTA: Good night, y'all. They leave.
REINHARDT: Now we've already got the Bankruptcy Institute breakfast tomorrow, but if you don't mind we could wedge in the Prune Board This isn't what Tommy wants to be doing now. He gets up.
TOMMY: I'm packing it in.
REINHARDT: ( also rising ) Can we talk while I drive you?
TOMMY: Thanks, I'll walk. I could use the air.
LORETTA: Come on, honey, no use you getting "I once was lost, but now am found; was blind, but now I see. " Tommy, in the back, cradles his head. As Loretta heads into a traffic circle, she SEES
LORETTA: ( turning to look ) Check out the fuck-me pumps on that. Mm-mm. I gotta get me some shoes like that.
TOMMY: Loretta! Please! Your mouth!
TOMMY: I need an ambulance right away. IN THE CAR no motion from Loretta or Marshall. AT THE PHONE he dials another number.
TOMMY: Evening, Mrs. Dodge, Tommy Johnson here, sorry to call at this hour, is Dick back from the Gridiron dinner yet? Could I speak with him for just a moment?
MRS. DODGE: Tommy Johnson.
DODGE: ( into phone ) What's wrong?
TOMMY: How did you know?
DODGE: Good news doesn't come at this hour.
TOMMY: I went out with Marshall. We got into an accident. He's out cold. I'm okay. Dodge looks off balance.
DODGE: Were you driving?
TOMMY: No. Someone else. Loretta. Dodge recovers his equilibrium.
DODGE: The girl from your office?
TOMMY: Yeah. She's out, too. I don't like the way it looks. For anybody. Look. You said you wanted to get back into Marshall's good graces. Well, here's an opportunity.
DODGE: Listen carefully. Tell the ambulance to take you to Walter Reed. It's a privilege they give congressmen. It's also the only hospital without a bunch of goddam reporters shtupping the nurses in exchange for leaks. They'll keep it quiet. I'll handle the police. You go home and keep your mouth shut.
CORRESPONDENT: That's right, Tom. Marshall reportedly had alcohol in his blood. Also slightly injured was an unidentified woman whom police say has a record in several states for Tommy looks sick.
TOMMY: Oh sweet Jesus.
WASHINGTON ANCHOR: Linda, Congressman Marshall that's Reverend Marshall, isn't it?
CORRESPONDENT: Right you are, Tom. How this plays into his longstanding campaign to reform congressinoal ethics is now anyone's guess.
WASHINGTON ANCHOR: Thank you. In other news. Tommy leaps for his clothes.
CELIA: Get away from him. He approaches her.
CELIA: And get away from me.
TOMMY: I have to talk to you.
CELIA: Go away!
TOMMY: I was set up!
CELIA: You were set up? You were in the car! I didn't hear your name on the No, someone screwed him
TOMMY: No, someone screwed him
CELIA: Celia, something stinks here
TOMMY: Celia, something stinks here
CELIA: Yeah it's you! You don't give a damn about anything! And to think, the other night, I actually thought you cared about someone else. He puts his hand to her face. She brushes it off.
CELIA: Not me, you jerk Mickey Juba! You caved on those power lines, didn't you? I knew it. Damn it, I knew it! What did you get for it? Tommy O'Connor's box at the Redskins? Someone slip you a condo in the Virgin Islands?
TOMMY: If you'd give me a chance to
CELIA: God, I hate this town the only reason I stay is because I hate it so much.
TOMMY: Get the hell out of here.
CELIA: Get the hell out of here.
MICKEY JUBA: sitting on the ground, backs to us, beneath the power lines. A quiet moment. REVERSE ANGLE - TWO SHOT. Mickey is shuffling a deck of
MICKEY: Is it thumb over, or thumb under?
TOMMY: She tries her hand at a false shuffle.
TOMMY: Not bad, kid. You've got potential.
MICKEY: So what's happening? I thought you were going to kick some ass on She indicates the derricks. Tommy looks at her, comes to a decision.
TOMMY: I am. He takes the deck from her, fans it face up, pulls all the kings and aces, stacks them on top, and squares the deck.
TOMMY: This is one's called the double duke. How many players?
MICKEY: Who's the mark?
TOMMY: Who's the mark?
MICKEY: Number two over there. Tommy, smiling, calculates something for a moment, then gives the deck four shuffles. He hands Mickey the cards.
TOMMY: Your deal. She deals out six hands in a circle on the ground.
TOMMY: Look at the sucker's hand. She turns over the hand at number two. It has the four kings. Mickey WHISTLES at the hand.
TOMMY: Look at your hand. She turns over her own hand. It has the four aces. Mickey looks at the power lines, at the hands, at TJ. Then, understanding:
MICKEY: That's what you're going to do? Tommy nods. Her face opens into a big smile.
MICKEY: Let's kick some ass. What do I do?
TOMMY: Something very important.
VAN DYKE: Why are we meeting here, Tommy? There trouble at the office?
TOMMY: ( impersonating Dodge ) "I keep my ear close to the ground." His ear my ass. He had an inside That little fuck Reinhardt?
ARMANDO: That little fuck Reinhardt?
LORETTA: Hot damn I knew my driving wasn't that bad. Speaking of which you think I should wear one of those whiplash things, Tommy? There some insurance angle I should be working here?
TOMMY: We got bigger fish to fry, darlin'.
VAN DYKE: What do we do?
TOMMY: ( beat ) The big con.
LORETTA: We gonna git that sucker.
TOMMY: Dick always said I should think big.
ARMANDO: Whoa! Aren't we gettin' out of our league, man? That Dodge is a pro!
VAN DYKE: You can't con a con, Congressman.
LORETTA: Shit, that's right, Tommy these politicians are serious slick fish.
TOMMY: You people gone soft on me? Bunch of fuckin' incumbents I got here. Now listen up. Thursday morning Dodge has a breakfast with the Arts Caucus in the Longworth Room. Armando find out how fast I can get from Longworth to my office. Loretta we need some scoop from the EPA for the roper, I'll give you a list. Van Dyke call Hattie at the Silver Foxes, and
LORETTA: Wait a minute we need a new roper, don't we? Everyone around here knows our faces. Outside a HORN sounds ( O.S. ). Tommy looks at his watch.
TOMMY: Right on the nose. He throws open the bay window of the narrow house. Just below is a pickup truck with "Homer's Pit Stop" lettered on the side. Homer gets out.
TOMMY: My man! The others come to the window to see Homer, still wearing his fuel-smeared overalls, and SHOUT greetings.
TOMMY: Now let's get to work.
TOMMY: Eli Marshall caught his tail in a crack, didn't he?
DODGE: He did.
TOMMY: You kept my name out of it.
DODGE: I did.
TOMMY: I owe you one.
DODGE: ( pleased ) You learn fast.
TOMMY: Do me one favor, Dick. Next time you pull some heavy shit involving my ass, tip me off, okay?
DODGE: ( indulgent chuckle ) Alright, son. ( BANGS gavel ) This hearing of the Power and Enterprise Committee is now in order. The health of America's securities industry
TOMMY: ( whispering ) Thanks. Listen, Reinhardt, something's come up, and I don't quite know how to handle it. There's a guy from the EPA I don't know him says he wants to see me. Tonight. Out of the office. Alone, he says. Sound of it makes me nervous. I'd feel better if you were there.
REINHARDT: You got it, jefe.
TOMMY: Mr. Yancey?
HOMER: ( cold ) I thought you'd be alone.
TOMMY: He's my AA. He goes where I go. If you can trust me, you can trust him. Homer eyes Reinhardt a moment, then continues.
HOMER: Congressman, I have information I think you may want. It's about something going on at the EPA.
TOMMY: What have you got?
HOMER: I got a wife and three kids, and a note on my house, that's what I got.
TOMMY: ( laughs ) Nothin' comes for nothin' in this town, do it? ( to Reinhardt ) You got any cash on you? I'm kind of light.
REINHARDT: ( whispering ) You can't do that!
TOMMY: ( to Homer ) This stuff's pretty good?
HOMER: In the right hands, it could mean a great deal.
TOMMY: Okay. Sunday. Fifth race at Del Mar. Blueboy is running twenty to one. I'd take a major position.
HOMER: You have to be shitting me.
TOMMY: No, not at all my Cousin Henry spends his days pumping water into horses' stomachs and stuffing Percodan up their butts. Trust me. Reinhardt is interested in this. And he admires Tommy's Alright. The White House is putting heat on the EPA. They want us to announce a major investigation of the relation between power lines and cancer clusters.
HOMER: ( after a moment ) Alright. The White House is putting heat on the EPA. They want us to announce a major investigation of the relation between power lines and cancer clusters.
REINHARDT: But didn't the EPA already do a study?
HOMER: Yeah, but when the draft got to the White House, they didn't like it. So they brought their own scientists in to kill it.
TOMMY: Why did the White House change its Who knows?
HOMER: Who knows?
TOMMY: Is there new evidence?
HOMER: Yeah their polls have dropped like a rock. They need an issue. This one makes them look good on the environment, and they don't have to spend a penny.
TOMMY: And what good is this to me?
HOMER: Come on, congressman, in this town, information is currency. And advance information is gold. Reinhardt nods in agreement.
HOMER: But you've got to move fast. Once the White House goes public with this, they can't turn back. If your friends at the power company want to kill this investigation, they'd better do it now. Evening, gentlemen. After Homer leaves:
REINHARDT: Blueboy. Twenty to one. Is your Cousin Henry always right?
TOMMY: I ain't got no Cousin Henry.
REINHARDT: Mrs. Dodge, it's Arthur Reinhardt. May I speak to the Chairman, please?
REINHARDT: Are you sitting down?
THIRD MEMBER: Unless there is further business, our caucus stands adjourned. Dodge gets up. As he makes to leave, Tommy comes in.
TOMMY: Got a minute, Dick? Tommy takes him aside. The room empties except for them.
TOMMY: Listen, Dick, I heard something. There's got to be some bid'ness in it. Tommy very discreetly gestures with his thumb and palm: Maybe we can go in on it together.
TOMMY: Maybe we can go in on it together.
DODGE: I'm listening.
TOMMY: The EPA is going to make a stink about power lines. The White House is pushing them to do a big study.
DODGE: That's very interesting, my friend. I've heard that, too.
TOMMY: ( acting surprised ) Nothing gets by, do it?
DODGE: But thank you, son I'm glad you chose to share it with me. We do make quite a team, don't we?
TOMMY: I I hope it wasn't my press conference that started this.
DODGE: No, this is a stunt for the polls.
TOMMY: So do you think there's something in it for us?
DODGE: ( musing ) If we got the EPA off Olaf Andersen's back, he'd be extremely appreciative.
TOMMY: And how do we do that?
DODGE: My committee writes the EPA's programs. We audit their funds. We confirm their appointees. I've got them by the balls.
TOMMY: And you're going to ? Tommy makes a squeezing gesture, grins.
DODGE: Oh, no, not at all just. persuasion. Strenuous persuasion.
TOMMY: That's allowed?
DODGE: Persuasion, yes. Intimidation, no. But it's a gray area. Who's to say which is which?
TOMMY: Dick, wait a minute shouldn't we check out the tip? Make sure the EPA's really going through with this THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 101.
DODGE: Of course. He should be in by now.
TOMMY: Skeeter Warburton, of course. Always go right to the top, son.
DODGE: Skeeter Warburton, of course. Always go right to the top, son.
DODGE: Get me the EPA Administrator, please.
TOMMY: There's a vote on the floor. and ducks into the stairwell.
VAN DYKE: Here he comes. The Telephone Man nods, adjusts some wiring, smiles And there he goes.
TELEPHONE MAN: And there he goes.
TOMMY: The Administrator. Loretta picks up the phone.
LORETTA: Office of the Adminstrator. Thank you, I'll put you right She hands the phone to Tommy, who mimics the George Plimpton voice.
TOMMY: Warbuton here. Thank you. Mr. Chairman! I do hope there's something I can help you with today.
DODGE: I need a straight answer from you, Skeeter. Is the White House on your ass about power lines?
TOMMY: Off the record?
DODGE: Of course.
TOMMY: I was looking forward to some serious sailing this week Tish and I have a lovely spot right by Kennebunkport. Instead, here I am at three in the morning, writing testimony to your committee about cancer clusters.
DODGE: Thanks for your candor, Warburton.
TOMMY: Not at all. You must come sailing with us. Cheers. Bye-bye. Tommy passes the phone back to Loretta.
TOMMY: THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 102A.
ANDERSEN: SECRETARY ( V.O. )
LORETTA: I'll just put you through to him. She passes the phone to Tommy.
TOMMY: ( coughs ) Olaf, Zeke Bridges. Listen, you sum' bitch, I'm so mad, I can't sit down to shit. Have you heard what I heard? ( wheezes )
ANDERSEN: What's that.
TOMMY: The EPA's fixing to make a big stink about power lines and cancer. They're going to serve us up for breakfast.
ANDERSEN: Wait a minute. There's no scientific proof
TOMMY: Proof don't mean shit. We're talking politics. They make a federal case out of power lines, I'm screwed. Whole insurance business is screwed. You know how much cash I'd have to pay out in settlements? Even if I stiffed everybody on claims, the legal fees'd be enough to kill me.
ANDERSEN: I can't believe it.
TOMMY: You better believe it. You're screwed, too. Every hot dog trial lawyer in America soon be lining up to sue both our asses. We got to move on this, Olaf. If I wasn't tied up here, I'd go to Washington myself. Shouldn't you be getting on a plane? Just between us you find a way to stop this, I'll find a million bucks if I have to.
DODGE: Olaf will be at my office at five o'clock.
TOMMY: How do we play it?
DODGE: Cool. Real cool. You just follow my lead.
O'CONNOR: I don't know how I can help you on this one, Olaf. This is the EPA. This is the President.
DODGE: I don't know how I can help you on this one, Olaf. This is the EPA. This is the President.
ANDERSEN: This is my lifeblood!
DODGE: I see that, Olaf, I see that. But in this town, you pick your fights.
ANDERSEN: This could mean six figures, Dick. Dodge says nothing, but makes his eyebrows fly.
ANDERSEN: High six figures. Dodge flicks his eyebrows again: More.
ANDERSEN: Seven figures?
TOMMY: Between us. It's not that much what can you get for half a million these days?
ANDERSEN: How the hell can I funnel that kind of money to you?
O'CONNOR: If that's what you want, we can always find a loophole. No one will see your fingerprints.
ANDERSEN: No one will know?
DODGE: No one will know.
O'CONNOR: You're only in trouble if someone can prove a connection.
DODGE: Of course there's no connection. Olaf's just making a contribution as a patriotic citizen. And in return for it, he's getting
TOMMY: Good government.
DODGE: Exactly. A little access, that's Dodge, Andersen, Tommy, and O'Connor walking along. Up ahead, a cocktail reception. On an easel by the door:
DODGE: I've got to do a drop-by. You gentlemen like to join me for a drink?
TOMMY: ( to Guests, smiling ) Excuse me.
CELIA: ( to Guests, smiling ) Excuse me.
TOMMY: Look. Whatever you think of me, just promise me one thing. She glares at him angrily. But then she's surprised to Come to the Clean Air hearing Power and Enterprise. Noon.
TOMMY: Come to the Clean Air hearing Power and Enterprise. Noon.
CELIA: ( baffled ) Power and Enterprise. Noon.
TOMMY: Power and Enterprise. Noon.
CELIA: But why? He gives her an enigmatic smile and slips away. As he rejoins Dodge, Tommy SEES WARBURTON enter the room. Alarmed, TOmmy moves in on Dodge, steering him to avoid the EPA Administrator.
TOMMY: Shouldn't we be heading off, Dick?
DODGE: Let's work the room just a bit more.
DODGE: Evening, Reinhardt. he SEES Warburton.
DODGE: Well. Look who's over there Skeeter Warburton from the EPA. The very man we want to see.
TOMMY: ( trying to turn him ) Have you tried the oysters, Dick?
DODGE: At a hazardous waste event? I think we'll go talk to him.
TOMMY: No, he's the wrong man
DODGE: ( bemused by Tommy ) You don't understand he's the perfect man.
TOMMY: But but you don't want to bother him with this. Talk to one of his Dodge looks at Tommy with curiosity, not understanding his Nothing beats man-to-man.
DODGE: Nothing beats man-to-man.
TOMMY: Here? Not here!
DODGE: A public place. What could be better?
TOMMY: But it's the wrong time!
DODGE: While the iron is hot, son.
REINHARDT: ( chiming in No time like the present.
TOMMY: Shut up, Reinhardt, I'm talking to the Chairman. Beat it, okay?
REINHARDT: ( smiling to Dodge ) I'll go get him.
TOMMY: ( puts hand on abdomen ) You heard about this stomach thing going around?
DODGE: Come on, son, we've got the people's business to do. He leads Tommy off to one side. Reinhardt brings Warburton to them.
WARBURTON: Mr. Chairman. Congressman.
DODGE: I've got a big problem, Skeeter.
WARBURTON: What's that?
DODGE: Your power lines investigation.
WARBURTON: What power lines investigation? Tommy is sweating bullets.
DODGE: We're off the record, Skeeter. This witch-hunt for cancer clusters is bad news for everyone.
WARBURTON: I don't know what you're talking about, Dick.
DODGE: Alright, I know you're being a good soldier
WARBURTON: No, I'm being straight with you
DODGE: Then let me be straight with you. You announce this study I'm not talking about the results down the road, mind you, I'm just talking about the announcement and there's broken crockery everywhere. Real estate. Utilities. Insurance. Schools. Local governments. It'll cost jobs. Uproot families.
WARBURTON: I agree with you completely. There isn't going to be an investigation, old chap, I promise you.
DODGE: ( beat ) I'm glad we understand each other.
WARBURTON: ( beat ) Yes, I think we do.
DODGE: And we'll just forget about that phone call this morning?
WARBURTON: We didn't speak on the phone.
DODGE: ( vastly impressed )
TOMMY: ( imitating Warburton ) "There isn't going to be an investigation, old chap."
DODGE: ( chuckling ) You're bad.
DODGE: ( sotto voce ) Worked like a charm. We scared him shitless. The investigation's dead.
ANDERSEN: Waiter! Champagne! See you at the Clear Air hearings.
TOMMY: Morning, Reinhardt! Got a minute? I need your advice on something.
REINHARDT: Tommy leads him back into the corridor.
VAN DYKE: Is this the assignment desk? Yes, I'm calling from Chairman Dodge's office, on the Hill. We wanted to be sure CNN was sending a crew to the Clean Air hearing today.
TOMMY: I want to do a little something nice for Dodge. That EPA thing he's been good to me, Reinhardt. Is there some way I can, like, throw a bouquet to him at the hearing today without having to sit through that boring testimony shit?
REINHARDT: Why don't you ask him to give you the floor at the start?
TOMMY: He's do that?
REINHARDT: For some flattery? In a New York minute. Just tip him ahead of time.
TOMMY: Good thinking. They return to the corridor. Tommy looks at his watch.
TOMMY: Say, Reinhardt, my Grandma's plane comes in at ten. You wouldn't mind picking her up and driving Miss Daisy around, would you?
REINHARDT: Can't one of the others do it?
TOMMY: No, I don't trust them the way I trust you. TOMMY pats him on the back and sends him on his way.
TOMMY: This is it, people. Game time. Let's get it right.
ARMANDO: Tell me one thing, jefe. How do you know Andersen is going to bite?
TOMMY: I don't. You run a con, you run a risk.
CELIA: I'm cutting out early.
IRA: ( indicating TJ ) Don't want to run into him?
CELIA: You got that right. AT THE DAIS Tommy has a private word with Dodge.
TOMMY: Dick, I thought it might be a nice way to open if I congratulated you on the fine work you been doin' on this committee. Really express our appreciation. Especially on behalf of the minority community.
DODGE: Why, thank you, son.
TOMMY: ( indicating cameras ) Wouldn't hurt to have tape like that in the bank, would it, Mr. Speaker? Mr. Yancey? Arthur Reinhardt. Are you testifying for the agency?
REINHARDT: Mr. Yancey? Arthur Reinhardt. Are you testifying for the agency?
GRANDMA: ( leaning over ) Hello, Homer, dear.
REINHARDT: No, Mrs. Johnson, you must be mistaken let me introduce you. This is Mr. Yancey of the EPA.
GRANDMA: ( to Reinhardt ) Don't be silly, child.
HOMER: Homer Norton. Homer's Pit Stop, Axahatchee, Florida.
GRANDMA: Homer's known Tommy since they were in diapers.
REINHARDT: ( getting up ) What the ? Move and you're history.
ARMANDO: Move and you're history. DODGE GAVELS the meeting to order.
DODGE: This meeting of the Power and Enterprise Committee to consider the reauthorization of the Clean Air Act is now in session. Today's first business is a panel of national leaders in the field of THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 112.
TOMMY: Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the other members of this committee, and on behalf of myself, I have a very personal statement to make. From the bottom of my heart, I want to thank you thank you for your leadership, for your insight, for your boldness. Dodge preens for the cameras, until:
TOMMY: . and for your courage. Especially your courage.
DODGE: ( surprised ) My courage?
TOMMY: Your courage in exposing the corruption that eats away at this institution. Your courage in taking on the special interests. Your courage in taking a major new But I've. I've. I've done nothing new, nothing at all what are you talking about?
DODGE: But I've. I've. I've done nothing new, nothing at all what are you talking about?
TOMMY: You're right integrity isn't new to you, Mr. Chairman, it's second nature to you. Still it's a rare public servant who'll take on the special interest money, take on the ANDERSEN, wary, senses danger.
TOMMY: Yes, courage, Mr. Chairman, is a quality that you have in abundance
DODGE: Well, yes, thank you, but we have to move along, if the gentleman would
TOMMY: ( undeterred ) Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, the Chairman and I had a meeting in his office with Olaf Andersen of Gulf Coast Power, and his lobbyist, Mr. Tommy O'Connor ( indicating ) these gentlemen here. Chairman Dodge and I listened in astonishment as Olaf Andersen offered us seven figures that's one million dollars, ladies and gentlemen.
O'CONNOR: Dodge double-crossed us.
ANDERSEN: You're fired.
ON TOMMY: One million dollars, if we would stop the EPA from investigating the connection between power lines and cancer clusters.
TOMMY: One million dollars, if we would stop the EPA from investigating the connection between power lines and cancer clusters.
TOMMY: Isn't that right, Mr. Andersen? Tommy flicks his eyebrows at Andersen, provocatively, imitating Dodge.
ANDERSEN: That's a vicious lie. Dodge GAVELS sharply, turns to Tommy.
DODGE: Will the gentleman yield?
ANDERSEN: That's not possible! You can't give anyone that kind of money! Dodge continues GAVELING.
TOMMY: Oh, yes, you can. As Mr. O'Connor said to you, quote: "If that's what you want, we can always find a loophole. No one will know." Remember saying that, Tommy?
O'CONNOR: I do not!
DODGE: ( standing ) I insist that the gentlemen yield!
TOMMY: You can't deny it, Mr. Andersen! We have the whole thing on this tape! The room erupts. THE PRESS loves it. Still cameras CLICK and WHIR. DODGE despairs. REINHARDT puts his hand over his face.
TOMMY: Yesterday, at Chairman Dodge's courageous suggestion, I taped the whole conversation. It's all there. Mr. Chairman, I thank you. The people thank you. America thanks you.
DODGE: I thank the distinguished gentleman. And I thank my fellow citizens. Our methods in this investigation may have been unorthodox, but together we have exposed a canker at the very heart of democracy. APPLAUSE. Tommy is amazed at Dodge's survival skills. REINHARDT, delighted at the turn, claps heartily. ANDERSEN, livid, leaps up and shouts at Dodge.
ANDERSEN: You bastard! You set me up!
DODGE: Witness is out of order!
ANDERSEN: You stood to make a million bucks off of me! Who offered you more? I want to know! A new BUZZ sweeps the room. O'Connor tries to restrain Andersen, who sloughs him off.
ANDERSEN: You're as big a whore as he is! MICKEY JUBA catches Tommy's eye and mouths a question.
MICKEY: Tommy shakes his head: no.
MARSHALL: Hello? No. You're joking. You mind if I put on C-span?
ANDERSEN: There's no loyalty any more, is there, Dick? What about the three hundred grand you squeezed from me for that goddam voter registration front of yours that just water under the bridge? O'Connor tries again to restrain him.
ANDERSEN: Don't touch me, you scum! MICKEY JUBA mouths:
MICKEY: Tommy shakes his head again. No.
ANDERSEN: What about the two hundred k for your phony foundation, Dick? How about the ten thousand copies if your goddam autobiography you muscled me to buy what's all that, ancient history? Andersen advances toward the dais, pointing now to six or seven other Members of the Committee among the total of
ANDERSEN: And you what about those bundled checks from my executives? I gave you my condo in Vail! I gave you my corporate jet to fly all over the world! I gave your kids summer jobs! I put up scholarships to put your kids through college! I hired your goddam wife to redecorate my office! You telling me none of that counts for anything? Andersen grabs Dodge by the throat.
ANDERSEN: I thought you people were for sale! I was wrong you're just for rent! Dodge struggles free of Andersen, who is dragged away from Dodge by Capitol Police.
DODGE: How dare you impugn my integrity! Everything I've done has been completely legal!
TOMMY: ( acting astonished ) Mr. Chairman! You mean to say you did all that stuff? You took all that money?
DODGE: There's nothing I've done that that these gentlemen haven't done! Committee Members rush to dissociate themselves from No!. Not me!. Just him!. I never!. He crossed the line!
MEMBERS: No!. Not me!. Just him!. I never!. He crossed the line!
ANDERSEN: They're whores! All of them! MICKEY JUBA tries again.
MICKEY: TJ nods yes.
MICKEY: Throw the bums out! LAUGHTER and APPLAUSE. She's touched a nerve. TJ leaps into the moment.
TJ: Damn straight! Throw the bums out! This place is an outhouse! ON THE PUBLIC. GASPS, WHOOPS, and APPLAUSE. Reinhardt sinks lower and lower into his seat.
VOICES: ( calling ) Throw the bums out! Throw the bums
TOMMY: I owed you one. Dodge wheels on Tommy, exploding.
DODGE: You lowlife hustler! Who are you to talk? You got into this House through fraud. You think I didn't check up on you? He pulls a piece of paper from the pile at his place.
DODGE: Ladies and gentlemen, I have here some rather startling revelations about this Mr. Johnson before you. This man is nothing but a con man! A fresh BUZZ from the room.
DODGE: A common grifter! He's wanted in three counties for bunco! He's a convicted swindler! Some BOOS. REINHARDT emerges from his hole, encouraged.
DODGE: and other charges the FBI has only begun to investigate! I dare you to respond!
TOMMY: You know what? He's right! But let me tell you something all that's nothing, compared to what I pulled here in Washington. and this shit's all legit!
DODGE: The gentleman is out of order! The gentleman is out of order! This committee is adjourned! GRANDMA leaps to her feet.
GRANDMA: Stop banging! Stop banging! That man has something to say! Massive APPLAUSE. Dodge is stunned by the enormity of the sentiment against him.
TOMMY: Adjourned? Fine. Leave. Turn your backs on the whole country. That what you want to do, gentlemen? The Members remain in place, paralyzed.
TOMMY: ( to the room ) I'm a con man. A small-time con man. Do you know what it was like for me to come to Congress? It was for like dying and going to heaven. If I did back home the kind of scams I've run in Congress, my ass would be in Sing Sing. But no, I'm not a crook up here, I'm a distinguished gentleman!
TOMMY: Now tell me, people while these guys are buying and selling each other, who's standing up for you?
TOMMY: She's right. Throw the bums out starting with me! I'm gonna found me a new party. The Don't Vote For Me Party. Any of y'all want to join up? APPLAUSE and CALLS of enthusiasm.
TOMMY: Well, come on, then! C'mon, get up, we got work to do! The room erupts, electrified, chanting.
VOICES: Throw the bums out! Throw the bums Tommy is engulfed by people and lights. Dodge, Andersen, and O'Connor desperate, snarling are pinned to the wall by the SHOUTING Press Corps. Loretta AND GRANDMA watch Tommy bask in his new That Miss Oprah's gonna love his THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 121-124.
LORETTA: That Miss Oprah's gonna love his THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN - Rev. 4/3/92 121-124.
CELIA: Tommy Johnson. Kamikaze congressman.
CELIA: I can't wait to see that tape you Tommy pulls it from his pocket, glances at it, and tosses it away.
TOMMY: Why? I bought it this morning. It's blank. As they continue down the steps, CAMERA CRANES UP to WIDE SHOT of the Capitol and the town beyond.
THE END: Writers : Adam Resnick
