DJANGO UNCHAINED: Written by Quentin Tarantino
I: EXT - COUNTRYSIDE - BROILING HOT DAY As the film's OPENING CREDIT SEQUENCE plays, complete with its own SPAGHETTI WESTERN THEME SONG, we see SEVEN shirtless and shoeless BLACK MALE SLAVES connected together with LEG IRONS, being run, by TWO: WHITE MALE HILLBILLIES on HORSEBACK. The location is somewhere in Texas. The Black Men ( ROY, BIG SID, BENJAMIN, DJANGO, PUDGY RALPH, FRANKLYN, and BLUEBERRY ) are slaves just recently purchased at The Greenville Slave Auction in Greenville Mississippi. The White Hillbillies are two Slave Traders called, The SPECK BROTHERS ( ACE and DICKY ). One of the seven slaves is our hero DJANGO. . he's fourth in the leg iron line. We may or may not notice a tiny small "r" burned into his cheek ( "r" for runaway ), but we can't help but notice his back which has been SLASHED TO RIBBONS by Bull Whip Beatings. As the Operatic Opening Theme Song plays, we see a MONTAGE of misery and pain, as Django and the Other Men are walked through blistering sun, pounding rain, and moved along by the end of a whip. Bare feet step on hard rock, and slosh through mud puddles. Leg Irons take the skin off ankles. AS The CREDITS play, DJANGO has a SPAGHETTI WESTERN FLASHBACK. Now Spaghetti Western Flashbacks are never pretty, it's usually the time in the film when the lead character thinks back to the most painful memory inflicted on him or his loved ones from evil characters from his past. In this instance we see Django in a SLAVE PEN at the Greenville Auction.
DJANGO: Amongst many other shoulders and heads, sees through the bars of the cell door, his wife BROOMHILDA being led to the auction block. He fights his way to the door, and far off and obscure in the distance, he can see Broomhilda up on the auction block, and in the distance he hears the Auctioneer yell; "Sold." Then she's taken away to whereabouts unknown, never to be seen again. As the sun continues to beat down on Django's head, he remembers; DJANGO in the SLAVE PEN with what seems like a one hundred and fifty Slaves in a cell designed for forty. WHITE MEN yank him out. of the cell, shirtless, shoeless, and lead him down a hallway, into a giant round pen, an audience viewing area circles the round pen floor on three different stories of the The ground floor is covered by the BIG MONEY BUYERS who stand in front of the auction block.
DJANGO: is moved into a line of SLAVES ( The Black Men ), and their MASTERS ( their White Owners ), and their SELLERS ( the White Man actually doing the sales pitch on the auction block ), as they wait for their turn on the block. A SLAVE ( ROBBIE ), stand on the auction block in view of the room full of Buyers, The SELLER sells, and the OWNERS stand off to the side.
DJANGO: takes in the environment around him. Django has never cared for white folks, but these white folks are in particularly ugly. It's DJANGO's turn ON THE AUCTION BLOCK as the THEME SONG wails its tragic crescendo, Django is brought up on the auction block. He.looks down at all the WHITE PEOPLE who want to buy Niggers, who look up to him. His heart fills with poison.
THE RIDER: appears to be a tenderfoot, due to his style of dress. A long grey winter'coat, over a grey three piece business suit, and a grey bowler hat on his head.
DICKY SPECK: Who's that stumblin around in the dark? State your business, or prepare to get Calm yourselves gentlemen, I mean you no harm. I'm simply a fellow weary traveler. The Rider dressed in business grey pulls his horse to a stop in front of the two Slavers, and their Slaves, lifting the lantern up to his face. He speaks with a slight German accent.
THE RIDER: Calm yourselves gentlemen, I mean you no harm. I'm simply a fellow weary traveler. The Rider dressed in business grey pulls his horse to a stop in front of the two Slavers, and their Slaves, lifting the lantern up to his face. He speaks with a slight German accent.
THE RIDER: ( to the Slavers ) Good cold evening gentlemen. ( to the shivering Slaves ) Good evening-I'm looking for a pair of slave traders that go by the'name of The Speck Brothers. Might that be you?
ACE SPECK: Who wants to. know?
THE RIDER: I do. I'm Dr. King Schultz, and this is my horse, Fritz. Fritz, does a little bow with his head, a neat trick the doctor taught You a doctor? What kinda doctor? Dentist. Are you The Speck Brothers, and did you purchase those men at The Greenville.Slave Auction?
DICKY SPECK: You a doctor? What kinda doctor? Dentist. Are you The Speck Brothers, and did you purchase those men at The Greenville.Slave Auction?
DICKY SPECK: What kinda doctor? Dentist. Are you The Speck Brothers, and did you purchase those men at The Greenville.Slave Auction?
ACE SPECK: So what?
LE: So, I wish to parley with you.
ACE SPECK: Speak English! Oh, I'm sorry. Please forgive me, it is a second language. Amongst your inventory, I've been led to believe, is a specimen I'm keen to acquire. ( to the slaves ) Hello you poor devils. Is there one among you, who was formerly a resident of The Carrucan Plantation? Since Roy in lead position is the one holding the lantern, the second half of the slave centipede falls off into darkness. In the darkness a VOICE rings out;
DJANGO: Wunderbar! You're exactly the one I'm looking for. So tell me Django - by the way that's a amazing name - during your time at the Carrucan Plantation, did you come to know three overseers by the name of The Brittle Django nods his head, yes. Dr.Schultz is delighted. Big John, Ellis, and little brother Raj?
DJANGO: Dem da Brittle Brothers. So Django, do you think you could recognize - ï¿½. The Speck Brothers have been watching this tenderfoot engage their Slave in polite conversation.. .with a touch of disbelief.
ACE SPECK: Hey, stop talkin' to him like that! Like what?
ACE SPEC: Like that! My good man, I'm simply trying to ascertain
ACE SPECK: Speak English, goddamit! Everybody calm down! I'm simply a customer trying to conduct a transaction.
ACE SPECK: I don't care, no sale. Now off wit ya! Don't be ridiculous, of course they're for Ace raises his rifle towards the German.
ACE SPECK: Move it! Ace cocks back the rifle hammer. My good man, did you simply get carried away with your dramatic gesture, or are you pointing that weapon at me with lethal Last chance, fancy pants - Very well - The next FLASH OF LIGHT we see is the good doctors PISTOL out of his holster, and FIRING point blank into Ace Specks face. .BLOWING the dumber dumb brother off his horse, dead in the dirt. Before Dicky can maneuver either his rifle or his horse in the Germans Dr.SCHULTZ SHOOTS his HORSE in the head. .The Steed goes down taking Dicky with him. When the dead weight horse lands on Dicky's slightly twisted leg, we hear TWO DISTINCT CRACKING SOUNDS.:.. Dicky lets out a bitch like scream. The Slaves watch all this. They've never seen a white man kill another white man before. Dicky is pinned down under his ole paint. Django watches in the dark, the German climb down off his horse, pick up Ace's discarded lantern, and walk over to the remaining Speck. Sorry about putting a bullet in your beast. But I didn't want you to do anything rash before you had a moment to come to your senses. Dr.Sch.ultz LIGHTS the lantern, illuminating himself, as he stands over Dicky's body.
ACE SPECK: Last chance, fancy pants - Very well - The next FLASH OF LIGHT we see is the good doctors PISTOL out of his holster, and FIRING point blank into Ace Specks face. .BLOWING the dumber dumb brother off his horse, dead in the dirt. Before Dicky can maneuver either his rifle or his horse in the Germans Dr.SCHULTZ SHOOTS his HORSE in the head. .The Steed goes down taking Dicky with him. When the dead weight horse lands on Dicky's slightly twisted leg, we hear TWO DISTINCT CRACKING SOUNDS.:.. Dicky lets out a bitch like scream. The Slaves watch all this. They've never seen a white man kill another white man before. Dicky is pinned down under his ole paint. Django watches in the dark, the German climb down off his horse, pick up Ace's discarded lantern, and walk over to the remaining Speck. Sorry about putting a bullet in your beast. But I didn't want you to do anything rash before you had a moment to come to your senses. Dr.Sch.ultz LIGHTS the lantern, illuminating himself, as he stands over Dicky's body.
DICKY SPECK: You goddamn son of a bitch, you killed Ace! I only shot your brother, once he threatened to shoot me. And I do believe I have .
DICKY SPECK: My damn legs busted! No doubt. Now, if you can keep your caterwauling down to a minimum, I'd like to finish my line of inquiry with young Django.
DJANGO: Now I'm sure. to you, all unshaven white men look alike. So Django, in a crowd of unshaven white men, can you honestly and positively point out The Brittle Brothers?
DJANGO: I can point 'em out. Sold American! So Mr.Speck, how much for I'm gonna lose this leg! Yes, unless you find a talented physician very quickly, I'm afraid that will be the. end result. But back to business, how much do you want for Django?
DICKY SPECK: I'm gonna lose this leg! Yes, unless you find a talented physician very quickly, I'm afraid that will be the. end result. But back to business, how much do you want for Django?
DICKY SPECK: You go to hell! Don't be silly. How much for Django?
DICKY SPECK: 800 dollars! Oh come now, I may not have the experience in the slave trade that you and your family does, but neither was I born yesterday.
DJANGO: Why not.. He writes it in his book with a silent "D", then stops to admire the way it looks. Yes, that does add a little character. The German dentist lowers himself by the Speck brother pinned down under his horse, and hands him the notebook and pen. If you'd be so kind Speck, as to make your mark here. The. Hillbilly spits in the German gentleman's face. The good doctor wipes his face with a handkerchief. Then takes out a pocket knife. And whispers something that can't be heard in the slavers ear. He signs the bill of sale. Mr.Speck, I would like to say it was a pleasure doing business with you, but your customer service leaves a lot to be desired. The good doctor climbs back up on Fritz, and looks to the six Slaves, in leg irons. Now as to you poor devils. He tosses to Pudgy Ralph the keys to the shackles. So as I.see it, when it comes to the subject of what to do next, you gentlemen have two choices. One, once I'm gone, you lift that beast off the remaining Speck, then carry him to the nearest town. Which would be at least thirty-seven miles back the way you came. Or . .Two, you unshackle yourselves, take that rifle over there. . .put a bullet in his head, bury the two of them deep, and make your way to a more enlightened area of the country. The choice is yours. He's just about ready to ride off, when the good doctor adds;
DJANGO: Your horse?
DJANGO: What horse? The horse you're riding.
DJANGO: This ain't my horse. Yes it is.
DJANGO: No it ain't, it's your horse. I'm just riding Well, technically, yes - Wait a minute - technically not. If it's my horse, I can give it to you, and as of now, I'm doing such. Django, you're now the proud owner of a horse, I can't feed no horse. I can't put no horse up in no stable. Don't worry about all that! They ride a bit longer in silence.. .the good doctor composes himself. then says with a smile; So. . now that that's settled. . what do you intend to name it? Half the fun of having a horse is choosing his name. For instance my steed is named Fritz. He's stubborn, ornery, and prone to a bad disposition, but I couldn't do without him. ( he pats Fritz's neck ) Anyway, the name of one's steed, isn't something one does lightly. So once you've thought about it for awhile -
DJANGO: I can't feed no horse. I can't put no horse up in no stable. Don't worry about all that! They ride a bit longer in silence.. .the good doctor composes himself. then says with a smile; So. . now that that's settled. . what do you intend to name it? Half the fun of having a horse is choosing his name. For instance my steed is named Fritz. He's stubborn, ornery, and prone to a bad disposition, but I couldn't do without him. ( he pats Fritz's neck ) Anyway, the name of one's steed, isn't something one does lightly. So once you've thought about it for awhile -
DJANGO: - Tony. - Tony what?
DJANGO: - I dunno, Tony the horse. Oh, you mean you want to name your horse Yeah. That's what you jus' asked me, right? When you're right you're right, indeed I did. Why Tony?
DJANGO: Yeah. That's what you jus' asked me, right? When you're right you're right, indeed I did. Why Tony?
DJANGO: I gotta tell ya? You didn't tell me I gotta tell ya. As they continue to converse, they start heading downhill toward a western town. They pass by a sign that says; "WELCOME TO DAUGHTREY,
TEXAS": Well I'm naturally curious, of course, but there's no reason you MUST tell me. In fact an air of mystery adds a dash of panache to any steed. And I do believe Tony wears it well. Good job Django, well done.
DJANGO: They never seen a nigger on a horse before. What's this bizarre obsession they have with. you not riding horses?
DJANGO: You askin' me? Dr.Schultz stops Fritz in front of a saloon, and dismounts. Django has a little trouble both stopping Tony and getting off him, but it gets done. Dr.Schultz keeps bombarding The Slave with questions. So what other archaic rituals are you people verboten to take part in? As per usual with this white man, Django thinks; "What"? I'm just trying to get a clear idea on what you can do, and what you can't do, and if you can't do it, why can't you do it? Like for instance, what if we were to walk in this saloon here, sit down at a table, order a drink, and drink it? Would the authorities frown on that?
DJANGO: Hell yeah, they gonna frown. What part would they find the most offensive?
DJANGO: All of it. I can't be walkin' in no saloon. I can't be sittin' my ass on no chair, at no table. I can't be drinkin' no drink. And I definitely can't be sharin' no drink, with no white man, in public. So if you and I did those things, that would be considered enough of a infraction to make the saloon keeper go get the sheriff?
DJANGO: You bet your sweet ass they get the sheriff. The good doctor extends his hand towards the saloon entrance. Well in that case Django, after you.
DJANGO: Whoa - I ain't funnin, I can't go in there. Django you're going to have to learn to trust me, and as the man said; "There's no time like the,present." He takes Django by the arm and leads him into the entryway of the INT - SALOON - MORNING The nervous black slave and the confident German'dentist walk into the The SALOON KEEPER ( PETE ) is high up on a chair placed high up on a table, to change a candle in the saloons chandelier. His back is turned away from the two patrons. Good morning inn keeper, two beers for two weary travelers.
SALOON KEEPER: It',s still pretty early, we won't be open for about a hour. But by then we'll be servin' breakfast - He turns around and sees them.
SALOON KEEPER: Whoa! What the hell you think you doin' boy, get that nigger outta here.
IT: TIME CUT
TIME CUT: EXT - SALOON - MORNING It's about five minutes later, and the Saloon Keeper comes running out of the bar to get the Sheriff. When Dr.Schultz, sitting at a table with the young Django, calls; Inn keeper! Remember, get the sheriff, not the marshall. This wouldn't be the marshalls jurisdiction.'This is just a infraction, on what I assume is a simple county ordinance, and that would fall under the domain of the The Saloon Keeper runs away. The two men sit by themselves in the empty saloon. It looks like we must act as our own bartender. The German stands up, and walks-behind the bar, and pours two beer's from the tap into mugs. Django remains seated, and after a beat, asks;
DJANGO: What kinda dentist are you? This makes the doctor laugh, as he pours the beer's. I haven't practiced dentistry in five years - Not to say once I know you better, I wouldn't like to get a look at that mouth - I'm sure it's a disaster - But these days I practice a new profession . . Bounty Hunter. This gets no reaction from Django. Do you know what a Bounty Hunter is? The Black Man shakes his head, no. As the good doctor, walks back to the table carrying the mugs of beer,
HE EXPLAINS;: Well the way the slave trade deals in human lives for cash, a bounty hunter, deals in corpses.
DJANGO: What's a bounty? It's like a reward.
DJANGO: You kill people and they give you a reward? Certain people, yes.
DJANGO: White people? Mostly. A few Mexicans. Couple Chinamen.
DJANGO: Bad people? Badder they are, bigger the reward. Which brings me to you, and I must admit I'm at a bit of a quandary when it comes to you. On one hand, I despise slavery. On the other hand, I need your help, and if you're not in a position to refuse, all the better. So for the time being, I'm going to make this slave malarkey work to my benefit.
1G: ï¿½. DJANGO SPAGHETTI WESTERN FLASHBACK Django, back at The Carrucan Plantation, held down by Roger and Ellis Brittle, as Big John BURNS the "r" into his cheek with a BRANDING IRON.
DJANGO: I know what they look like, all right. Good. So, here's my agreement. You travel with me till we find them -
DJANGO: - Where we goin'? I hear at least two of them are overseeing up in Gatlinburg, but I don't know where. That means we visit every plantation in Gatlinburg till we find them. And when we find them, you point them out, and I kill them. You do that, I agree to give you your freedom. . twenty-five dollars per Brittle brother - that's seventy-five dollars. . your horse, Tony even though I've already gave him to you but once the final Brittle brother lies dead in the dust, I'll buy you a new saddle, and a new suit of clothes, handsome cowboy hat Dr.Schultz's eyes go to the saloon window. And as if on cue. . here comes the sheriff.
SHERIFF SHARP: Okay boys, fun's over, come on out. Both the doctor and Django stand up and walk to the front porch. As they do, The Sheriff says;
SHERIFF SHARP: Now why y'all wanna come into my town, start trouble, and scare all these nice people? You ain't got nothin' better to do, then to come into Bill Sharps town and show your ass - From his top step on the porch, Dr. King Schultz extends his hand toward the sheriff, as if to shake it. :.
PEDESTRIAN: What did you jus' do to our sheriff? Dr.Schultz answers him by putting another tiny bullet in the law man's skull, killing him dead. In the background, ONE WOMAN faints. The Boy and his Goats scatter. Dr.Schultz looks over at the Saloon Keeper, across the street. Now you can go get the marshall.
TIME CUT: EXT - DAUGHTREY MAIN STREET - DAY U.S.MARSHALL GILL TATUM snaps the MENFOLK OF Daughtrey to attention.
MARSHALL TATUM: Move that buckboard over there long ways across the street from the saloon. And I want six men and six Winchesters behind it. And I want two men with two rifles on this roof, and two men with two rifles on that roof, with all barrels pointed at that front door. And somebody git poor Bill outta the goddamn street.
LP: Cowboys with rifles climb up stairs to take position on the roof of the building across the street from the saloon. The Marshall directs the buckboard being moved into place. The last SNIPER on the rooftop takes his position.
DJANGO: I think they wonderin' why you playin' the piana'. But what are they doing?
DJANGO: A buncha white folks brought a buckboard around out front, now they hidin' behind it with guns. And a buncha other white folks are up on the roof, with rifles pointed down here. Damn, they got that organized fast. Is the marshall out there?
DJANGO: If the one I think is the.marshall is the marshall, he's out there.
DJANGO: Cause he's the one ready to say somethin'.
MARSHALL'S VOICE: You in the saloon! Dr.Schultz stops playing the piano.
MARSHALL'S VOICE: We got eleven Winchesters on every way outta that buildin'! You got once chance git outta this alive! You and your nigger come out right now with your hands over your head, and I mean, right now! First things first! Is this the marshall I have the pleasure of addressing?
MARSHALL TATUM: Yes it is, this is U.S. Marshall Gill Tatum. Wunderbar! So marshall, I have relieved myself of all weapons, and just as you have instructed, I'm ready to step outside with my hands raised above my head. I trust as a representative of the criminal justice system of The United States of America, I shant be shot down in the street, by either you or your deputies, before I've had my day in court.
MARSHALL TATUM: You mean like you did our sheriff? Shot 'em down like a dog in the street! Yes, that's exactly what I mean! Do I have your word as a lawman not to shoot me down like a dog in the street?
MARSHALL TATUM: Well, as much as we'd all enjoy seein' somethin' like that, ain't nobody gonna cheat the hangman in my town! Fair enough marshall, here we.come.! They're a little tense out there. So don't make any quick movements, and let me do the talking. Django looks at him like, "as if."
MARSHALL TATUM: You unarmed? Yes indeed we are. Marshall Tatum, may I address you, your deputies, and apparently the entire town of Daughtrey, as to the incident that just occurred?
MARSHALL TATUM: Go on! My name is Dr.King Schultz. And like yourself, marshall, I am a servant of the court. The man lying dead in the dirt, who the good people of Daughtrey saw fit to elect as their sheriff, who went by the name of Bill Sharp, is actually a wanted outlaw by the name of Willard Peck, with a price on his head of two hundred dollars. That's two hundred dollars, dead or alive.
MARSHALL TATUM: The hell you say! I'.m aware this is probably disconcerting news. But I'm willing to wager this man was elected sheriff sometime in the last two years. I know this because. three years ago he was rustling cattle from, The B.C. Corrigan Cattle Company of Lubbock Texas.
CUT TO: EXT - TENNESSEE COUNTRY ROAD - DAY Django and Dr.Schultz, who by now have ridden quite a few miles together, ride their horses in the Tennessee countryside, on the way to Gatlinburg. Dr.Schultz is dressed in one of his nearly identical grey business suits, and Django is still dressed in his slave pants, Schultz's button down dress shirt, and Ace Speck's winter coat. Somewhere along the way a pair of shoes have appeared on'his feet. One needs a plan, son. These are brutal times. A man who survives, is a man with a plan. A man who thrives, is a man with a good plan. So, having said that, what's your plan, young Django?
DJANGO: What'cha mean? Well, after this Brittle business is behind us, you'll be a free man, with a horse, and seventy five dollars in your back pocket. What's your plan after that?
DJANGO: Find my wife, and buy her freedom. Django, I had no idea you were a married man. Do most slaves take the institution of matrimony seriously?
DJANGO: Do slaves believe in marriage'?
ZZ: Do slaves believe in marriage'?
DJANGO: Me and my wife do. Where is she now?
DJANGO: I dunno. They put us in different boxcars, and sent U.S to The Greenville Slave Auction. She got sold two days 'fore me. But I don't know who to. Dr.Schultz takes out a long stick of beef jerky. Care for some jerky?
DJANGO: Dr.Schultz rips him off a piece. Django chews on it. As he chews,
SCHULTZ SAYS;: So your plan is to trackdowri your wife, and purchase her.freedom? Only you don't know where she is? A chewing Django nods his head, yes. Dr.Schultz, takes a big bite of jerky, chews for a "moment contemplating the dilemma, then pronounces; Well that shouldn't be all that difficult. So how long ago did all this happen?
DJANGO: A few months ago. Three or four?
DJANGO: So shecamefrom the Carrucan Plantation, and shewassold at The Greenville Slave Auctiontosome :unknown customer three Django nods his head, yes.
Z3: The bad part about slavery being a business, is it's immoral. The good part about it being a business is, they keep records. Somewhere in Greenville there's a book with your wife's name in it, and the name of the customer who bought her, and more then likely their address. But then Schultz seems to get second thoughts. Still, seventy-five dollars in your back pocket is a pretty nice grub steak, but it's not going to get you very far in Greenville. Not to mention a slave auction town in Mississippi isn't the safest place you could visit. Free or not.
DJANGO: I'll have my freedom papers. Yes you will. But say you show them to some rascals, and they take them from you and tear them up?
DJANGO: They could do that? I'm not saying they would, but they could.
DJANGO: They do that I'll kill 'em. Great! Now you get hung for killin' a white man. The point being is the place,is just too dangerous for you.
DJANGO: Well I gotta go, when do I go? When you get more dangerous.
Z: is dressed in a powder blue satin Little Lord Fauntleroy outfit, that wouldn't be out of place in the court of Marie Antoinette at Dr.Schultz comes trailing after him. Django, you have to, it's part of "The Act". You're playing a character. Your character is The Valet. This is what The Valet wears. Remember what I told you. During the act, you can never break character.
DJANGO: is dressed in a powder blue satin Little Lord Fauntleroy outfit, that wouldn't be out of place in the court of Marie Antoinette at Dr.Schultz comes trailing after him. Django, you have to, it's part of "The Act". You're playing a character. Your character is The Valet. This is what The Valet wears. Remember what I told you. During the act, you can never break character.
CUT TO: EXT - BENNETT MANOR- DAY We see Dr. Schultz, riding slightly in front of Django, dressed in his blue satin Little Lord Fauntleroy outfit, as they enter the property of BENNETT MANOR, a plantation in Gatlinburg, Tennessee. Django leads a riderless horse, behind him and Tony. As the two men ride their horses up the road that leads to the front steps of Bennett Manor, alongside the cotton fields, all the SLAVES stop picking cotton, and straighten their bent backs up to stare in wonder at this sight. The patriarch of Bennett Manor, SPENCER "BIG DADDY" BENNETT, dressed in a fancy leisure suit of the day, emerges from the double doors of the mansion, and stands on the top steps, hands on hips, watching the white man and black man move from the background to the foreground. While there are plenty BLACK MALES out in the cotton fields, the majority of the slave population of Bennett Manor is pretty.BLACK FEMALES, fourteen to twenty-four, referred to as, "PONY'S". The biggest money making crop of this farm, after cotton. As Dr.Schultz and fancy pants Django, bring Fritz and Tony to a stop in front of Bennett Manor, they've drawn quite a crowd of SLAVES, BENNETT FAMILY MEMBERS, and WHITE WORKERS ( OVERSEER'S ). Spencer Bennett keeps on the top step so he won't be forced to look up at the darkee on the horse.
SPENCER BENNETT: It's against the law for niggers to ride horses in this territory. This is my valet, and my valet doesn't walk.
SPENCER BENNETT: I said niggers - Z .ate` His name is Django, he's a free man, and he can ride what he pleases.
SPENCER BENNETT: Not on my.property, around my niggers he can't. My good sir, perhaps we got off on the wrong boot. Allow me to unring this bell. My name is Dr.King Schultz, this is my valet, Django, and these are our horses, Fritz, and Tony. Fritz, does his head bow. This makes the pretty PONY'S surrounding Bennett, giggle. Mr. Bennett, I've been lead to believe you are a gentleman, and a business man. And it is in these capacities that we've ridden from Texas to Tennessee to talk with you now.
SPENCER BENNETT: State your business. I wish to purchase one of your nigger gals.
SPENCER BENNETT: You and your Jimmie rode from Texas to Tennessee, to buy one of my nigger gals, no appointment, no nuttin'? I'm afraid so.
SPENCER BENNETT: Well what if I say, I don't like you, or your fancy pants. nigger, and I wouldn't sell you a tinkers damn - what'cha gotta say about that? Mr. Bennett, if you are the business man, I've been led to believe you to be, I have five thousand things I might say, that could change your mind. i This gets everybody's attention, not least of all Spencer Bennett. Spencer laughs.
ZG: SPENCER BENNETT
SPENCER BENNETT: C'mon inside, get yourself something' cool to drink. The incognito bounty hunter, dismounts his steed, as does Django. Then the good doctor walks up the steps to Bennett Manor. Maybe while we discuss business, you could provide one of your loveliest black creatures to escort Django here around your magnificent grounds.
SPENCER: Absolutely. Betina! A pretty, fleshy, sweet jelled, twenty-two year old slave gal named BETINA, snaps to attention.
BETINA: Yes sir, Big Daddy?
SPENCER: ( TO SCHULTZ )
SPENCER: Betina sugar, take Django around the grounds. Show 'em all the pretty stuff.
BETINA: As you please, Big Daddy. Dr.Schultz lowers his voice, and says to the plantation owner; Mr. Bennett, I must remind, you, Django is a free man. He cannot be treated like a slave. Within the bounds of good taste, he must be treated as an extension of myself.
SPENCER: Understood., Schultz. Betina?
BETINA: Yes, sir?
SPENCER: Django isn't a slave. Django is a free man. Do you understand? You're not to treat him like any of these other niggers around here, cause he ain't like any of these other niggers around here. Ya got it?
BETINA: Ya want I should treat 'em like white No that's not what I said.
SPENCER: No that's not what I said.
BETINA: Then I don't know what'cha want Big Daddy.
SPENCER: Yes, I can see that.
SPENCER: Yeah, that's the boy's name, Jerry.
BETINA: Yes 'em, Big Daddy.
SPENCER: Well that's it then. just treat 'em like you would Jerry.
BETINA: What'cha do for your massa'?
DJANGO: Didn't you hear him tell ya, I ain't no slave.
BETINA: So you really free?
DJANGO: You mean you wanna dress like that? Django fumes.
ZY: You mean you wanna dress like that? Django fumes.
BETINA: You mean you wanna dress like that? Django fumes.
SPENCER: Oh I got my share of, coal blacks, horse faces, and gummy mouth bitches out in the field. But the lion share of my lady niggers are real show pony's. Well that's what I'm looking for, a show pony for young Django. So the only question that remains is, do you have a nigger here worth five thousand dollars?
SPENCER: Dr.Schultz, five thousand dollar nigger, is practically my middle name.
DJANGO: Betina, come over here, I need to ask you something. He moves her by the tree for more privacy. Betina thinks this fancy pants wants to get all lovey-dovey, and she couldn't be less interested.
BETINA: What'cho want?
DJANGO: I'm lookin' for three white men. Three brothers. Overseers. Their name is Brittle. Do you know 'em?
BETINA: Yes, Brittle. John Brittle. Ellis Brittle. And Roger Brittle, sometimes called, Little Raj.
DJANGO: Yes, Brittle. John Brittle. Ellis Brittle. And Roger Brittle, sometimes called, Little Raj.
BETINA: I don't know dem.
DJANGO: They could be usin' a different name. They woulda' come to the plantation in the last year.
BETINA: You mean The Shaffer's?
DJANGO: Maybe? Three brother?
BETINA: Are they here?
DJANGO: Are they here?
BETINA: Can you point one of 'em out to me?
DJANGO: Can you point one of 'em out to me?
BETINA: Well ones over in that field. She points to the cotton field, at a OVERSEER on top of a horse, whip in hand, eyeing the blacks at his mercy. Django takes hold of a little bag slung over his shoulder opens it, and takes out a shiny brass SPYGLASS, the type a sea captain might use. Obviously a prop from Dr.Schultz. He slides it open, places it against his eye, and points it in the direction of a figure out in the cotton field landscape.
BETINA: ( INNOCENTLY )
DJANGO: He folds the spyglass back up, and puts it back in his purse.
DJANGO: Where's the other two?
DJANGO: They whippin' Little Jody? She nods her head, yes.
DJANGO: Point me in that direction. She points to a shed, and keeps pointing right.
BETINA: You go to that shed, and keep goin' that way. Which means; "Go to the shed and turn right."
DJANGO: Go git that white man, I came here with. He slaps her ass, to hurry her up. Then looks to the shed, and begins crossing the distance between him and The Brittle Brothers.
FLASH ON: A memory from The Carrucan Plantation; The Brittle Brothers giving his wife Broomhilda, a peelin'. PEELIN' : A punishment by bullwhip, across the back. LITTLE RAJ makes a line in the dirt with the heel of his boot. Making Django stand behind it, as he watches his wife being whipped. BIG JOHN BRITTLE SLASHES the beauty of Broomhilda's back with his
DJANGO: Please Big John, she won't do it no more! She's real sorry! The WHIP RIPS her back.
DJANGO: ( SCREAMING )
LITTLE RAJ: Whoa nigger, calm down, keep it funny. Django gets on his knees, and on behalf of Broomhild.a, begs Big John Brittle with everything he has.
FLASH ON: Big John Brittle standing over him, bullwhip in hand, saying to the
KNEELING DJANGO;: BIG JOHN BRITTLE I like the way you beg, boy.
BIG JOHN: After this we'll see if you break eggs again.
DJANGO: turns the corner to the stable, and stands behind them. They don't see him. Big John rears back to make the first WHIP LASH.
DJANGO: John Brittle! Big John breaks his whip stride, looks. up, and in a discarded full length broken mirror from the big house, laying abandoned against the stable wall, he see's DJANGO, dressed in his powder blue satin Little Lord Flauntleroy outfit, surrounded by his pack of little French LITTLE JODY on her knees, tied to the dead tree stump, looks up see's the same thing in the mirror. LITTLE RAJ looks to his left at the sounds of the voice. BIG JOHN turns toward Django, who he still doesn't recognize. DJANGO just stares back. BIG JOHN smile disappears. He recognizes Django. So does Roger.
LITTLE RAJ: Django crosses toward Big John, raising up his arm like he's going to shake his hand .
DJANGO: Remember me? .Django extends his arm, and Dr.Schultz's Derringer arm contraption,. POPS the TINY GUN into his hand, and he FIRES a tiny bullet smack dab into BIG JOHN'S MERCILESS HEART.
DJANGO: I like the way you die, boy.
DJANGO: That's John Brittle, and that's his little brother Raj. Where's Ellis?
DJANGO: He's the one hightailin' it across that field right now. Ellis Brittle riding his horse full out through the cotton field trying to make an escape.
SCHULTZ'S WINCHESTER: goes to his eye, he follows the rider with his rifle barrel. Are you sure that's him? Ellis gets further away.
DJANGO: Are you positive? Ellis gets further away.
DJANGO: I dunno. You don't know if you're positive? Ellis gets further away.
DJANGO: I don't know what, positive,'means. It means you're sure.
DJANGO: Yes, what?
DJANGO: Yes I'm sure that's Ellis Brittle.
BAM!: The German picks the middle Brittle brother off his horse. RED BLOOD splashes on WHITE COTTON. The German and Django have the entire plantation's attention. Spencer Bennett ( with his Winchester ), his SONS and his OVERSEERS, and some HOUSE NIGGERS come around like a angry mob. The German tosses his rifle in the dirt, and raises his hands. Django does the same with his pistol. Dr.Schultz addresses the ANGRY MOB. Everybody calm down, we mean no one else any harm!
SPENCER: Just who the hell are you two jokers?
DJANGO: - They were goin by the name, Shaffer. You know them by the name, Shaffer. But the butchers real names'were Brittle. These are wanted men. The law wants them for murder. I reiterate, this warrant states dead or alive. When Django and myself executed these men on sight, we were operating within our legal. boundaries. Now I realize passions are high. But I must warn you, the penalty for taking deadly force against a officer of the court in the performance of his duty is, you will be hung by the neck until you are dead. This does put a momentary pause in the lynch mob's blood lust. After his dramatic pause for effect. .Dr.Schultz says; May I please remove the warrant from my pocket so you may examine it? Resting his Winchester over his shoulder, Bennett reaches for the Dr.Schultz removes the warrant from his jacket pocket, and hands it to the plantation owner. Bennett reads it silently to himself, resigned to what it says. Bennett eyes go from the warrant to the German. May I have that back?
SPENCER: Dr.Schultz removes the warrant from his jacket pocket, and hands it to the plantation owner. Bennett reads it silently to himself, resigned to what it says. Bennett eyes go from the warrant to the German. May I have that back?
BENNETT: Get off my land. Post haste.
TIME CUT: All three dead Brittle Brothers lie over the back of the extra horse the bounty hunters brought with them. Both Bounty Hunters are back in their saddles ready to leave. With all the eyes of the plantation on them, the white and black man start to ride out, when Spencer "Big Daddy" Bennett, steps in their way for one final threat.
BENNETT: Ain't nobody gonna touch you and your Jimmie while you on my property. But for lettin' a nigger kill a white man, and especially for letting a nigger kill a white man in a audience of niggers, y'all ain't gonna make it out of the county alive. Mark my words Schultz, by tomorrow morning your niggers gonna be stripped and clipped and hangin' from my motherfuckin' gate. I'm fully aware Bennett, that you and your regulator playmates aren't shy about killing for what you believe in. But mark my words Big Daddy, if you make a move towards Django or myself, you better be prepared to die for it. The two men ride off. The Black and White Audience watch them go.
SPENCER BENNETT: That's them sonsabitches.
SPENCER BENNETT: Now unless they start shootin' first, nobody shoot 'em. That's way too simple for these jokers. We're gonna whip that nigger lover to death. And I'm gonna personally, strip and clip that garboon Having said his blood thirsty words, he puts the flour sack over his head. He tussles with the sack for a bit, then from inside the sack;
SPENCER BENNETT: Damn, I can't see fuckin' shit outta this thing. He sticks his fingers in the.eye holes, and rips, trying to make the holes bigger, he only succeeds in making-visibility more obscured.
BRADSHAW: We ready, or what?
SPENCER BENNETT: Hold on I'm fuckin' with my eye holes.
RANDY: I can't see shit either.
REDFISH: Who made this goddamn shit?
WILLARD: Well make you own goddamn masks!
SPENCER: ( TO WILLARD )
REDFISH: Well if all I hadda do was cut a bag, I could cut it better then this.
ROBERT: Not too good. I mean if I.don't move my head, I can see you pretty good . . more or less. But when I start ridin' the bag starts moving all over, and I'm riding blind. Randy tears at his bag.
RANDY: Oh shit, I just made mine worse. He puts it on-then says;
RANDY: Yep, it's worse. He yanks it off his head.
RANDY: Did anybody bring any extra bags?
TERRY: No, no one brought a extra bag!
RANDY: I'm just asking.
DOUG: Do we hafta wear 'em when we ride?
SPENCER: Shitfire, if you don't wear 'em as you ride up, that just defeats the purpose. Redfish, fatter then some ( but not all ), takes off his bag.
REDFISH: I can't see in this fucking thing! I can't breathe in this fucking thing! And I can't ride in this fucking thing!
WILLARD: Fuck all y'all! I'm going home. I watched my wife work all day gettin' thirty bags ready for you ungrateful sonsabitches! And all I hear is criticize, criticize, criticize. From now on don't ask me or mine for nothin'! Willard rides off. O.B. removes his bag, and yells after Willard.
SPENCER: O.B., I tole yo to keep quiet! They're asleep, not dead.
SPENCER: Fuck Willard! Look, let's not forget why we're here. We gotta killer nigger over that hill. And we gotta make a lesson outta 'em.
RANDY: Okay, I'm confused, are the bags on or off? Robert takes off his bag, and says;
ROBERT: I think we all think the bags was a nice idea. But, not pointing any fingers, they could of been done better. So how 'bout, no bags this time, but next time, we do the bags right, and then we go full regalia. Everyone takes off their bag.
SPENCER: Wait a minute, I didn't say no bags!
YO: But nobody can see.
TERRY: But nobody can see.
SPENCER: So, it would be nice to see.
TERRY: So, it would be nice to see.
SPENCER: Goddamit, this is a raid! I can't see, you can't see, so what? All that matters is can the fuckin horse see! That's a raid. Spencer puts on his sack, everyone else, reluctantly, does as well.
TWO SHOT: Dr.SCHtJLTZ and DJANGO up in a tree. Auf wiedersehen.
L,: He fires. The Camp EXPLODES Blowing Horses and Riders Apart. Dr.Schultz and Django lift up repeating rifles. Let 'em have it!
DJANGO: I can't see nothin'. Just fire into the smoke. The two treetop killers let loose with rifle fire.
SPENCER BENNETT: on his horse with the other fleeing regulators RIDES for his life.
DJANGO: scope sight rifle up to his eye. Schultz next to him, says; He's getting away.
DJANGO: I got 'em.
SPENCER'S HORSE: his hooves race and rip up the grass.
SPENCER: riding for his life.
DJANGO: scope sight rifle up to his eye. He's getting out of range.
DJANGO: I got 'em. INSERT: A black finger squeezes the rifle trigger.
SPENCER BENNETT: we're behind him as he rides away, OFF SCREEN we hear the whistling of what sounds like an incoming missle.
SPENCER BENNETT: we're in.front of Spencer Bennett as he rides, when Django's bullet, RIPS THROUGH his CHEST.
DJANGO: I got 'em.
DJANGO: I got 'em.
SPENCER BENNETT: falls from his horse, dead.
DJANGO: scope sight rifle in his hand, big smile on his face, looks.to Like that, huh? Referring to the scope sight rifle;
DJANGO: I like. Well, I think while they take this opportunity to lick their wounds, we should take this opportunity to get the fuck out of Tennessee. They hop out of the tree.
MONTAGE: Dr.Schultz in a big city, buying Django a new saddle. Django gets his first initial "D" etched into it. The men go to different stores to purchase Django's wardrobe. The outfit bought, is selected by Django, with suggestions offered by Schultz. When he's done, Django looks damn handsome in his new duds. Brown cowboy boots, Green Corduroy Jacket, Smokey Grey Shirt, Tan Skin Tight Pants, and Light Brown Cowboy Hat. He looks a. bit like Elvis in "Flaming Star" and a Little Joe Cartwright on "Bonanza". However, tellingly, he keeps Ace Speck's Winter Coat as his winter coat.
DJANGO: She's my wife, it's my job to look after her. If Greenville's where I gotta go to find out where she went, then I gotta go. Now you were sayin' where I gotta go first? There'should be some sort of records office. You know when she was sold, you know where she came from, the Carrucan Plantation, and you know her name . . what is her name?
DJANGO: Schultz reacts. Django.nods his head yes. Were her owners German? Now Django reacts, "How did he know that?
DJANGO: Yeah, how did you know? She wasn't born on The Carrucan Plantation. She was raised by a German mistress, The Von Shafts. She can speak a little German too. Your wife?
DJANGO: Yeah, when she was little her mistress taught her so she'd have somebody to talk German with. So let me get this straight, your slave wife speaks German, and her name is Broomhilda Von Shaft.?
DJANGO: Yep. Mouthful, huh? To say the least. ( stopping the horse ) This looks like a very pretty place to have our picnic. What'd ya say, here?
TIME CUT: EXT - PICNIC IN COUNTRY MEADOW - PRETTY DAY The two men sit on a blanket with a nice picnic spread spread out. Django eats a cucumber sandwich with the crust cut off, and drinks a cup of tea.
DJANGO: How did you know Broomhilda's first masters were German? Broomhilda is a German name. If they named her, it stands to reason they'd be German.
DJANGO: Lotsa gals where you from named Broomhilda? No, not so much. Broomhilda is the name of a character in one of the most popular of all the German legends.
DJANGO: Really? There's a story 'bout Broomhilda? Yes there is.
DJANGO: Do you know it? Every German knows that story. Would you like me to tell you? Django nods his head, yes. Well Broomhilda was a princess. She was the daughter of Wotan, the god of all gods. Anyway, her father is really mad at her.
DJANGO: What she do.? I don't exactly remember. I think she disobeys him in some way. So at first he's just going to obliterate her -
DJANGO: Obliterate. . what does that mean? Like blow up. He pantomimes a explosion.
DJANGO: Phew, that's pretty mad. Yes it is, and like most fathers, given a little time, he calms down a bit. He's still mad at her. He still wants to punish her. Just not . . blow her up. So instead what he does, is he puts her high on top of a mountain.
DJANGO: Broomhilda's on a mountain? It's a German legend, there's always going to be a mountain in there somewhere. So, he puts her on top of the mountain and he puts a fire breathing dragon there to guard the mountain. And. then he surrounds her in circle of hellfire. And there Broomhilda shall remain, unless a hero arises brave enough to save her.
DJANGO: Does a fella arise? From now on as Dr.Schultz talks, he's beginning to realize something he wasn't aware of when the conversation started. Yes Django, as a matter he does. A fella named, Sigfried.
DJANGO: Does Sigfried save her? Yes he does, and quite spectacularly, so. Now true, he is assisted in his triumph by a truly, truly, remarkable sword, still, having said that, Sigfried triumphs over all of his obstacles not just due to his sword, but due to his courage. He scales the mountain, because he's not afraid of it. He defeats the dragon, because he's not afraid.of him. Dr.SCHULTZ ( CON'T ) He walks through hellfire because Broomhilda's worth. it. After that last line of dialogue. .the two men just let a moment pass as they nibble on their sandwiches.
DJANGO: I know how he feels. I think I'm just starting to realize that. He pours Django and himself some more tea out of a fancy tea pot, as he thinks about what he's going to say next. Look Django, I don't doubt one day you will save your lady love. But I'm afraid I can't let you go to Greenville in a good conscious. Let me ask you a question, how do you like the bounty hunting business?
DJANGO: Kill white folks, and they pay ya? What's not to like? I hafta admit, we make a good team.
DJANGO: But I'thought you were mad at me for killin' Big John and Rodger? Yes, on that occasion, you were a tad overzealous. But normally, that's a good thing. How'd you like to partner up for the winter?
DJANGO: What'd ya mean partner up? You be my deputy, for real this time. A lot of the big money is in outlaw gangs. Some of these fellas are worth fifteen hundred or three thousand a piece. With one man, anything over three men is a risk. But with a partner? Creating cross fire? It's fish in a. barrel. A lot of these gangs hold up in the'hills for the winter.
DJANGO: You makin' another agreement?
W7: Yes. You work with me through the winter, till the snow melts. I give you a third of my bounties. And while we're together, I'll teach you a few things you're going to need to know.
DJANGO: Can you teach me how to make Tony do that head bow thing that Fritz can do? That among other things. We make some money this winter, when the snow melts, I'll take you to Greenville myself, and we'll find where they sent your wife. I'm pretty good at finding people. Is it a deal? No white man has ever done anything for Django, just to him. So understandably, he's a little suspicious.
DJANGO: Why you care what happens to me? Why you care if I find my wife? Well frankly, I've never given anybody their freedom before. And now that I have, I feel vaguely responsible for you. You're just not ready to go off on your own, it's that simple. You're too green, you'll get hurt. Plus when a German meets a real life Sigfried,. it's kind of a big deal. As a German, I'm obliged to help you on your quest to rescue your beloved Broomhilda. Django accepts that response. What follows is a MONTAGE covering the five months that Django and Schultz partner up as bounty hunters. Schultz wears his normal ensemble. Django wears his cool looking Green Jacket, unless it's really cold, which a lot of this Montage is. Then he still wears Ace Specks raw hide winter coat over his cool clothes.
WE SEE: A SCENE to be improvised ( more or less ), where Dr.Schultz teaches Django how to draw and shoot the pistol in the holster at his hip. By the end of the scene, after trial and error, we see Django's going to be good at this.
Y, 8: DOWN BELOW WE SEE A LITTLE MAN struggling behind a plow, and his FIFTEEN YEAR OLD SON helping him by leading the horse forward. On top of their perch on the hill top, Dr.Schultz says; Keep down or he'll see you.
DJANGO: Who that farmer? Who cares? Well since we came here to kill 'em, he just might.
DJANGO: What? The little man pushin' that plow? That little man pushing that plow, is Smitty Bacall.
DJANGO: Smitty Bacall is a farmer? No. Smitty Bacall is a stagecoach robber who's hiding out as a farmer, because there's a seven thousand dollar bounty on his head. He hands Django the scope rifle case. And he's all yours my boy. DJANGO lays on his belly, with the Scope Sight up to his eye.
DJANGO: His son's with him. Good. He'll have a loved one with him. Maybe even share a last word. That's better then most get, and a damn. sight better then he deserves.
1Ï¿½9: Django still hesitates. Put down the rifle. Don't worry, I'm not mad at you. Take out Smitty Bacall's handbill. Django removes the folded up handbill from the pocket of his tan pants. Read it aloud. Consider it today's lesson.
DJANGO: ( READING )
DJANGO: It's good luck. You always keep the handbill of your first bounty. They begin walking down the hill, to collect Smitty Bacall's body, leading the extra body horse behind them.
SHERIFF GUS: Doctor and Django, how the hell are ya, and who the hell ya got there? The Wilson - Lowe Gang.
SHERIFF GUS: Who the hell's The Wilson - Lowe Gang? Dr.Schultz removes a handbill from his inside jacket pocket, and hands it down to the friendly peace officer. Bad Chuck Wilson, and meaner Bobby Lowe. And three of their acolytes.
SHERIFF GUS: Just leave 'em out here, they ain't going nowhere. And if'in they do, god must love 'em, so who are we to say. Come outta the snowy snow and git yourself some coffee.
5L: As Schultz collects the coins off the ground, he says; You're pretty confident aren't you? Django nods his head, yes. You have reason to be. He holds out his fist, opens his hand, the coins lay in his palm. All the coins have bullet holes dead in their center. He drops them on top of Django.
DJANGO: Still think I'm too green for Greenville? Dr.Schultz removes a pipe, sticks it in his mouth and says; Oh you're ready for Greenville. He lights a match, then lights the pipe, puffing as he says; Greenville ready for you, that I'm not so He blows out the match.
"FLASHDANCE" ): CUT TO
MISSISSIPPI: CUT TO
CUT TO: EXT - THE TOWN OF GREENVILLE MISSISSIPPI - DAY The whole Main Street of Greenville is thick with five inches of shit brown mud that all the horse hooves, and wagon wheels, and slave feet have to wade through to get from one end of the town to the other.
GREENVILLE: CHICKASAW COUNTY, MISSISSIPPI Dr.Schultz takes in this African flesh market, where human beings sell other human beings, with disgust and a little bit of shock. Django is neither disgusted or. shocked, he knows first hand how Greenville operates. As he rides Tony through town in his snappy duds, he looks'at the BLACK MEN half dressed: in chains. He REMEMBERS HIMSELF with his six Other Companions from earlier, being walked through the mud of Main Street by The Speck Brothers. On that day he might as well of been a steer. Today, with a gun on his hip, money in his pocket, in his snappy outfit, astride his steed Tony, he feels so different from these wretched half naked bastards it gives him a bit of a chill. Django sees the towns railroad depot, and across from it a huge SLAVE PEN, like a STEER CORRAL. At the moment there's no train in the depot.
JUDD: Good god almighty these niggers stink!
I F: Niggers stink, where's the shock? ( to the Slaves
RUSS: Niggers stink, where's the shock? ( to the Slaves
BELOW ): Okay you bucks, listen up, and listen well, I'm only gonna say this once. There's a slave corral right across from this boxcar. We gittin ready to open these doors. When we do, y'all run as fast as you can, right into that pen. 'Anyone gittin off trail, gonna get hurt and hurt bad. Now you niggers better comprehend. And that goes for any African garboons amongst y'all can't understand english . . your American buddies better shove your ass in the right direction, or your trip to this country is going to be short, and pointless. Train to pen as fast as you can! The boxcar door is slid open, and a HUNDRED AND FIFTY BLACK MALES run full out from the train to the steer corral. We spot Django during the running. Once inside the corral, the gate is closed. COWBOYS with rifles act as prison guards.
DJANGO: You should see it from the other side. Frankly, I don't know if I could endure this.
DJANGO: You'd be surprised what you can endure.
CUT TO: INT - RECORDS OFFICE - DAY Dr.Schultz and Django walk into a records office, lined with books. We watch through the store front window, the black man and white man enter, and Dr.Schultz present his business card to a Dickensian looking RECORDS OFFICE WORKER. As Schultz starts his spellbinding with words routine. . The CAMERA FADES TO BLACK.
BROOMHILDA: INT - SLAVE PEN - DAY The same shot we saw before of Django fighting his way to the bars of the slave pen, to get a better last look of Broomhilda. Broomhilda, as before is walked by in the distance. Then, as before Django loses sight of her.
BROOMHILDA: looks down into the crowd of twelve ugly white men, and holds her breath which one will buy her. Among the ugly white men we see Mr.HARMONY ( MIKE ), not quite as ugly as the rest. An older well dressed, classy gentleman. Next to him is his twenty four year old overweight awkward son SCOTTY HARMONY. Scotty in the audience, and Broomhilda on the wagon, THEIR EYES MEET, he nudges his dad. The Seller makes her expose her breasts to the small crowd. Then her back, revealing her whip marks. Then pointing out the runaway "r" branded in her cheek. Some of the crowd, including Scotty, react with repulsion at the sight of the whip marks. The Seller assures the crowd, that niggers don't feel pain like white folks, and it only makes the women more gentle.
UGLY MAN: makes a bid.
BROOMHILDA: UGLIER MAN
UGLIER MAN: higher bid.
BROOMHILDA: UGLIER BY FAR GUY makes leap frog big bid.
BROOMHILDA: BIG GREASY FAT GUY makes a bid.
SCOTTY: This is for you. She opens the bag,candies of many colors sit in it.
SCOTTY: They're jelly beans. Try one. She selects a yellow one and puts it in her mouth.
SCOTTY: Good huh? She nods her head, yes. We see him drive the buckboard out of Greenville with Broomhilda in the back eating her bag of jelly beans.
BROOMHILDA: Master Scotty. ?
SCOTTY: Yes Broomhilda?
BROOMHILDA: I'm lonely back here. Can I come on up with you on that seat so we can talk?
SCOTTY: Please, I'd love that. She climbs into the driver's seat. In more ways then one.
BROOMHILDA: Follow me. into the kitchen, ( 'to her son ) You stay out here.
BROOMHILDA: I like Scotty. He's just shy is all. All he needs is a little confidence. And you'll give that to him?
BROOMHILDA: I'll do my best, mam. Scotty's a real sweet boy. He is, isn't he?
BROOMHILDA: The mother lets go of the young lady's wrist.
6O: NARRATOR ( VO )
BROOMHILDA: holding her parasol, looking like a black Daisy Miller, watches the OTHER SLAVES march by in the mud. They watch her too.
SCOTTY: I gotta tell you Broomhilda - I don't care if I go to. hell for this - I love you. And if loving you means I go to hell . . Well then hello Mr.Devil. That was actually kind of funny. Broomhilda was right, all he needed was a little confidence. She puts her hand on his.
CALVIN CANDIE: appears at their table.
CALVIN CANDIE: Hello, my name is Calvin Candie, I own The Cleopatra Club. And I would just like to welcome an attractive couple'like yourselves to my favorite place on earth. Scotty stands up and shakes hands with Calvin.
SCOTTY: Thank you so much, it's a great honor. We love it here. Pointing at a empty chair.
CALVIN CANDIE: May I join you?-
SCOTTY: Please, by all means. Calvin sits down. Broomhilda gets a sinister chill from this smiling jack. Scotty, as per usual, is clueless.
CALVIN CANDIE: How long have you been a member?
SCOTTY: We just joined this weekend.
CALVIN CANDIE: Well our little private oasis appreciates your patronage. Some may consider the dues excessive, but they're necessary for us to create this haven for the alternative lifestyle we've all become accustomed to.
SCOTTY: Well said, and money well spent. He squeezes Broomhilda's hand. Candie sees this.
CALVIN CANDIE: It would be.my pleasure, your first weekend at the club, to join me and my friends at my table. Broomhilda knows this is a man to be avoided. But Scotty is swept away being courted by somebody like Calvin Candie. She tries to imply they should stay where they are. He brushes her off with a, "Don't be silly." We see Calvin introduce his table of friends to the couple, and they join the party. Calvin Candie has his arm around a foxy Pony named SHEBA, whose dress is a little more revealing then the others. They drink and talk, and the White Men have a forced good time. But Calvin Candie can't hide his sinister side from Broomhilda, and it keeps her uncomfortable, until she excuses herself from the table to go to bed. Scotty's having such a good time with his fancy friends he opts to stay behind.'Broomhilda leaves in a bit of a huff, due to Scotty's disobedience. If these fancy.fucking white men weren't around making Scotty feel so puffy chested, he'd never dismiss her that way. We FOLLOW Broomhilda out of the club, across the street, to the hotel.
CANDIE: ( TO SHEBA ) ( TO SCOTTY )
SCOTTY: She says she thinks you're cute.
CANDIE: She says she thinks you're cute.
SCOTTY: Really? Thank you Sheba, I think you're Sheba whispers something else in Candie's ear.
CANDIE: Sheba says she'd like to give you a little lip. Want some lip? Scotty, is a little surprised.
SCOTTY: Well, she's your Pony.I mean.
CANDIE: Oh hush, what's a little nigger lip 'tween friends. Go on honey, give 'em some sugar. Sheba walks over to Scotty's side of the table, and gives him a very lip intensive'soul kiss. The table enjoys the show. Then Sheba goes back to Calvin's side of the table. The game continues.
G: Okay loverboy, I think you're trying to out brazen me in my own club, and I won't have it. If you're really holding cards, time to pony up. I raise you five hundred. Candie throws in his chips.
CANDIE: Okay loverboy, I think you're trying to out brazen me in my own club, and I won't have it. If you're really holding cards, time to pony up. I raise you five hundred. Candie throws in his chips.
CALVIN CANDIE: Not so fast, boy.
SCOTTY: I'm all in.
CALVIN CANDIE: Ain't that too bad. Scotty doesn't intend to let this smiling Jack cheat him out of his pot, especially with him holding an inside straight.
SCOTTY: I would think a southern gentleman of such renown as yourself, wouldn't have to resort to buying a pot in his own club. Calvin writes on a piece of paper, then throwsit'in the pot.
CALVIN CANDIE: One final raise. Scotty takes the piece of paper, "What's this?"
CALVIN CANDIE: It's Sheba's bill of sale.
SCOTTY: What? I don't want her. Calvin.and the whole table laugh at that.
CALVIN CANDIE: You sure didn't look like you didn't want her. More laughter.
CALVIN CANDIE: In Greenville slaves are currency. And Sheba's worth about eight hundred dollars. I'm throwing Sheba in the pot. Match or I'm all out of money.
SCOTTY: I'm all out of money.
CALVIN CANDIE: But we ain't playin' for money no more.. We matchin' nigger gals. And a nigger gal you got.
SCOTTY: I can't bet Broomhilda.
CALVIN CANDIE: In Chickasaw County, she's money. Pony her up or fold. Somebody get him a piece of paper and a pencil. Somebody does.
CALVIN CANDIE: Write out a bill of sale, or fold them cards. Scotty makes a pressured decision. He hurriedly takes the pencil and writes out a Bill of Sale for Let me see your cards! Candie lays down his cards, he has a FLUSH. What Scotty's just done hits him like a ton of bricks.
SCOTTY: Let me see your cards! Candie lays down his cards, he has a FLUSH. What Scotty's just done hits him like a ton of bricks.
SCOTTY: You cheated me. After Scotty uses the "C" word, everybody quiets down.
CALVIN CANDIE: What did you just call me?
SCOTTY: I called you a card cheatin' son of a bitch, cause that's what you are! Calvin calmly stands up from the table. He removes a small Derringer Gun.from his pocket, and tosses it on the table in front of Scotty. Then takes out another one, and tosses it on the table in front himself .
CALVIN CANDIE: Scott Harmony. For calling me a card cheat in my own club, as a southern gentleman, I challenge you to a duel. ( to the Piano
PLAYER ): Piano player, will you hit three separate On the third note, pick up the gun and try to kill me. ( to Piano player ) Piano player please . This is all going too fast for slow Scotty.
SCOTTY: Wait a minute .no!
SCOTTY: I ain't dueling with you! I don't want to duel!
CALVIN CANDIE: Then get out of here, get in your buggy and get out of town.
SCOTTY: Sure. Let me just get my girl.
CALVIN CANDIE: You lost that girl, fat boy.
SCOTTY: Wait!. . Look . . Mr.Candie, I'm sorry I called you a cheat. But. please.I can't give you Broomhilda.
CALVIN CANDIE: Last chance fat boy, go home and get'useta to fuckin' another one.
CALVIN CANDLE: Hello Oliver.
CALVIN CANDLE: Good evening to you as well,. young Oliver. Could you please inform me which room your guest Scott Harmony is staying in?
CALVIN CANDIE: Welcome to Candyland. We do a SLOW ZOOM into Broomhilda's face.
CUT TO: INT - GREENVILLE SLAVE AUCTION - DAY Back inside the three story Auction Block domed room. The same room Django was sold in at the beginning. Tons of WHITE BUYERS and SELLERS and BLACK SLAVES to be bought or sold fill the big hall.
DJANGO: Candyland? The mandingo fightin' place? Oh, so you heard of it?
DJANGO: Ain't no slave ain't heard of Candyland. Well apparently, that's where your wife is, and apparently the repellent gentleman down there is the one who owns her.
6R: The White Man and Black Man find a cubby hole to talk in the auction How much do you know about mandingo fighting?
DJANGO: Not so much. A little. Master Carrucan had a couple niggers he'd fight. Can you play a mandingo expert?
DJANGO: Can you convincingly masquerade as someone who is an expert on mandingo fighters?
DJANGOÂ¢: Because when a man has one of the four biggest cotton plantations in Dixie, but the only thing that seems to ring his chimes is big sweaty black males, if WE want to get his attention, we better be talking about big sweaty black males. So my character is that of a big money buyer from Dusseldorf, here in Greenville to buy my way into the mandingo fight game. And your character is the mandingo expert I hired to help me do it.
DJANGO: They call that "One-Eyed Charly." One-Eyed Charly?
DJANGO: That's what you call it when you buy a slave expert. If you wanna raise horses, but don't know nothin' 'about horses, you buy yourself a One-Eyed Charly who knows about horses. He teaches ya. You wanna plant tobacco but don't know nothin' about it, you buy yourself a One-Eyed Charly knows about tobacco. Dr'. SCHULTZ Why do they call it One-Eyed Charly?
DJANGO: You know, back on the plantation, my. job wasn't historian. Testy. It's an unusual name. That's a perfectly legitimate question. So, can you convincingly play my mandingo One-Eyed Charly? Don't say, yes, if you can't.
DJANGO: You want me to play a black slaver? There ain't nothin lower then a black slaver. Black slavers are lower then head house niggers, and buddy, that's pretty fuckin low. Then play him that way! Give me your black slaver. Django gets that. Can you do that?
DJANGO: That, I can do. What's next? To get ourselves personally invited to Candyland by Calvin Candie himself.
CUT TO: EXT - THE CLEOPATRA CLUB - NIGHT Dr.SCHULTZ and DJANGO stand across the street from The Cleopatra Club. Which looks like aregular nice three story house, among other.nice houses on an affluent residential block in Greenville Mississippi. They open the tiny garden gate in front of the house, walk up the stoop steps to the front door. They ring the doorbell. A pretty young black girl, dressed in a FRENCH MAID outfit opens the Bonjour, mon petite femme noire. We are here to see Calvin Candie.
FRENCH MAID: ( SOUTHERN ACCENT ) ( AMUSED )
FRENCH MAID: The two men walk into the entrance way of the house. A beautiful mulatto HOSTESS greets the two men.
HOSTESS: ( SPEAKING QUITE REFINED )
REFINED ): Hello gentlemen, I'm Cleo, can I help you? Dr.Schultz hands Cleo the guest card. Yes I am Dr.King Schultz, and this is my associate, Django Freeman. Upon hearing Django is a free man her eyes go to, him. We're here for a appointment with Calvin Candie and Leo Moguy.
CLEO: Yes you gentlemen are expected. Please make yourself comfortable. I'll inform Monsieur Candie you've arrived. ( referring to the
CLEO: Then Coco will entertain you while I inform Monsieur Candie. How charming. Cleo leaves. Django wanders over the dining room, and peers inside.
COCO CHIRPS;: COLO. - Y'all gonna dine, it's real good. You like catfish, we got good catfish. They use alotta butta. You like sand dabs, we got sand dabs. LEO MOGUY descends from the clubs prominent staircase.
MOGUY: Dr.Schultz, good to see you again. Mr.Moguy, thank you for your assistance in creating the opportunity for this Nonsense, it's my job.
DJANGO ): .So this'is the One-Eyed Charly I've heard so much about. Yes, this is Django.. Django, this is Mr.Candie's lawyer, Leonide'Moguy.
MOGUY: Just call me Leo. Calvin's in the billiard room, follow me. Y'all want Coco should come along too? We would be quite lucky indeed if the charming Coco cared.to follow. Coco blushes.
MOGUY: You better watch out doctor, you gonna steal this little pony's heart. They walk through the club to get to the billiard room, as they do they
SAY;: How long have you been associated with Calvin and I were about eleven when we went to boarding school together. One could almost say, I was raised to be Calvin's lawyer.
MOGUY: Calvin and I were about eleven when we went to boarding school together. One could almost say, I was raised to be Calvin's lawyer.
DJANGO: One could almost say, you a nigger. Coco can't believe what this snappy looking cowboy nigger just said to What did you say? Oh nothing, he's just being cheeky. Anything else about Mr.Candie I should know before I meet him?
MOGUY: What did you say? Oh nothing, he's just being cheeky. Anything else about Mr.Candie I should know before I meet him?
MOGUY: Yes, he's a bit of a Francophile.
7EF: What civilized people aren't?
MOGUY: That's why all the French ambiance. And he prefers Monsieur Candie to Mister Candie. Dr.Schultz says in FRENCH SUBTITLED IN ENGLISH; What ever he prefers. This stops Moguy, and he turns to warn Schultz.
MOGUY: Oh he doesn't speak French. Don't speak French to him, it'll embarrass him. They get to the two sliding doors that lead to the billiard room. Moguy slides the doors open. The party enters the billiard room.
CALVIN CANDIE: Why do you want to get in the mandingo That's quite abrupt and aggressive. Dr.Schultz says, as if he's just been massively insulted; You don't intend to allow your 2nd. ( referring to Moguy ) .to make the proper introductions? Without turning towards them, Candie tells Schultz;
7S: CALVIN CANDIE
CALVIN CANDIE: Quit stalling and answer the question. The room is quiet. The awful truth?
CALVIN CANDIE: Well come on over, cause we gotta us a fight goin on that's a good bit of fun_ Dr.Schultz steps up to get a better look at the savage fight. The bigger mandingo is really hurting the smaller one. Schultz has schooled Django on the importance of never BREAKING CHARACTER.' Well now the good doctor must practice what he preaches. Which means not only must he watch. the two men beat each other to death, he must appear to convincingly enjoy it.
MOGUY: Big Fred.
CALVIN CANDIE: The other nigger belongs to this disreputable Italian gentlemen to my right. Amerigo Vassepi.
AMERIGO: Luigi. .? Candie looks over at Django; who doesn't walk over to watch the fight. Instead he walks over to a bar set up in the room. A slave bartender named, ROSCOE tends it.
CALVIN CANDIE: How 'bout you, boy? You find nigger fightin' a good bit of fun?
DJANGO: You seen one nigger fight, ya seen 'em all.
CALVIN CANDIE: How'd you two like to try the signature drink of the club?
CALVIN CANDIE: ( yelling to the
BARTENDER ): Roscoe, two Polynesian Pearl Divers, and don't spare the rum. Roscoe makes the drinks in coconut shell glasses. Big Fred kills Luigi. Candie and his friends cheer.
CALVIN CANDIE: Arrivederci Luigi! Well, Mr.Vassepi, looks like you owe me ten dollars. Amerigo pays up the puny bet. sip. Schultz hates it, Django loves it. Candle turns his attention to Django.
CALVIN CANDIE: What's your name, boy? His name is Django.
CALVIN CANDIE: ( TO SCHULTZ )
CALVIN CANDIE: ( TO DJANGO )
DJANGO: I'm curious, what makes you so curious? Bartholomew puts down his pool cue, and turns toward Django;
BARTHOLOMEW: What you say, boy?
CALVIN CANDIE: Calm down Bartholomew, gentle. gentle. Monsieur Candie, I would appreciate it if you directed your line of inquiry to me.
CALVIN CANDIE: Doc, I'm a seasoned slaver, you are a neophyte. I'm simply trying to ascertain if this cowboy is taking advantage of you. With all due respect, Monsieur Candie, I didn't seek you out for your advice. I sought you out to purchase a fighting nigger at above top dollar market price. I was'under the impression when you granted me an audience, it would be to discuss business.
CALVIN CANDIE: No we weren't talking business yet. We were discussing my curiosity. Now according to Moguy here, if I do business with you.
SCHULTZ ): , .I'm doin' business with both of y'all.
DJANGO ): He does the eyeballin', you the billfold? Well you don't make it sound too flattering, but more or less, yes. None of the white men in the room have any respect for a white man who needs a nigger to tell him what time of day it is. Candie turns his attention back to Django.
CALVIN CANDIE: ( TO DJANGO )
FLASH ON: we see. Django looking over THREE MANDINGOS..
DJANGO: Not for top dollar.
CALVIN CANDIE: Well then we got nothing more to talk about. You wanna buy a beat ass nigger from me, those are the beat ass niggers I wanna sell.
DJANGO: He don't wanna buy the niggers you wanna sell. He wants the nigger you don't wanna sell.
CALVIN CANDIE: I don't sell the niggers I don't wanna Dr.Schultz chimes in thoughtfully;- You won't sell your best. You won't even sell your second best. But your third best. .you don't want to.sell him. .But if I made you an offer so ridiculous you'd be forced to consider it. . who knows what could happen?
CALVIN CANDIE: What do you consider ridiculous? For a truly talented specimen, ."The Right Nigger"..:? How much would you say, Django?
DJANGO: Twelve thousand dollars. Calvin Candle takes in the figure.
CALVIN CANDIE: Gentlemen, you had my curiosity. Now you got my attention.
TIME CUT: TNT CLEOPATRA CLUB RESTAURANT - NIGHT Candle, Moguy, Django, Schultz, Bartholomew, Sheba, and Coco eat dinner in the restaurant. All the men eat thick T-Bones. Coco eats Catfish. And Sheba uses her fingers to rip apart Crawdads.
CALVIN CANDIE: How ya like that meat, Bright Boy? Django's eyes go to Calvin, he nods his approval.
CALVIN CANDIE: ( TO COCO )
COCO: Real good Monsieur Candie.
CALVIN CANDIE: ( TO SCHULTZ )
CALVIN CANDIE: Well if'in you did,.you'd know what a treat this was for 'em. You feel special Yes. sir, Monsieur Candie.
COCO: Yes. sir, Monsieur Candie.
CALVIN CANDIE: You feel special Bartholomew?
BARTHOLOMEW: Yes sir, Monsieur Candie. He looks to Sheba, who's licking her fingers from the Crawdads.
CALVIN CANDIE: Now Sheba always feels special. Dont'cha?
SHEBA: CALVIN CANDIE ( MEANING SHEBA )
CALVIN CANDIE: How 'bout you Bright Boy, you feel Not as special as her. The table breaks out in laughter.
DJANGO: ( MEANING SHEBA )
CALVIN CANDIE: Well we're leaving bright and early tomorrow morning, and moving the. whole kit and caboodle to "Candyland." You oughta come with us. Dr.Schultz and Django's eyes meet for a moment.. .so far.so good. Well, that wasn't on the agenda. But I suppose I could be amenable to that. How far must we trek?
CALVIN CANDIE: Oh hardly a ride at all, We'll still be in Chickasaw County. Five hours.. .tops. There you can get a look at my best specimens. Have dinner with my sister and I. Spend the night at Candyland as my guest. Django and Schultz trade looks and small smiles.
WE CUT: EXT - COUNTRY SIDE MISSISSIPPI - DAY It's the next day and a whole procession is making their way to Calvin Candie, Leonide Moguy, Dr.Schultz, Django, and THREE OVERSEERS ( BILLY CRASH, TOMMY GILES, and HOOT PETERS ) ride horses. Bartholomew ( now dressed in work clothes ) drives a buckboard filled FIVE MANDINGOS ( Big Fred and Banjo who we already met, plus JOSHUA, SIDNEY JAMES, and TATUM ) recently purchased at the Greenville Auction walk to their new home, with small bundles of their personal possessions under their arm. They look like powerful warriors.
J: walks along the road, looks up at Django riding his horse. All the slaves hate Django because they think he's a black slaver. But the three heading back to Candyland are even more resentful.
RODNEY: walks along the road, looks up at Django riding his horse. All the slaves hate Django because they think he's a black slaver. But the three heading back to Candyland are even more resentful.
FLASH ON: Django with Schultz, earlier, inspecting and rejecting these three.
RODNEY: gives Django a bad eyeball look up on his horse.
DJANGO: Gotta problem with your eyeball, boy? Rodney looks away.
RODNEY: No sir.
DJANGO: You want a boot heel in it?
RODNEY: No sir.
DJANGO: Then keep ya damn eyeballs off me! Flash that bad look at me again, I'll give ya reason not to like me! not without difficulty. Dr.Schultz comes riding Fritz beside him. How do you like this side of the slave Not so much. Prefer the other side?
DJANGO: Not so much. Prefer the other side?
DJANGO: I didn't say that. I've confirmed Broomhilda's at Candyland.
DJANGO: Are you sure it's her? He didn't call her by name, but she's a young lady, whip marks on 'her back, and speaks German. Now while it's not wise to assume, in this instance, I think it's pretty safe.
DJANGO: Did you offer to buy her? I opened the door to my possible interest. But naturally, sight unseen, I can only be so interested.
CALVIN CANDLE: Am I intruding? Of course not.
CALVIN CANDIE: ( APPRAISING THE TWO MEN )
CALVIN CANDIE: Oh by now, I don't think that would surprise meat all. Candie gives Django a creepy smile. Around now the audience may start noticing DOG BARKING in the distance. When do we reach your property?
CALVIN CANDLE: You been on it. I own the whole sixty miles 'fore we get to Candyland. Candie gets annoyed at the barking dogs.
CALVIN CANDIE: Excuse me a moment, gentlemen.
BILLY CRASH: Yeah, Boss?
CALVIN CANDIE: Find out what that goddamn commotion is up at the tracker shack!
BILLY CRASH: Right away, Boss. Billy Crash TEARS UP AHEAD on his horse.
CALVIN CANDIE: You know, confidentially, just 'tween us girls, worse things about this business, ain't the slaves. It's all the white trash ya gotta deal with. Like these peckawoods we got riding with us. These dumb, ignorant, sleazy sonsabitches ain't good fer nuttin, except kickin' a niggers ass can't kick back. Yeah, they holdin' the pretty part of the whip, but it's just a thin membrane separate 'em. And don't think they don't know it either. It's about the only thing these dumbass motherfuckers do know. But ya need 'em. Who the hell else ya gonna get to beat a niggers ass, other than somebody might as well be a nigger hisself. But these mountain boys I use as trackers for the runaways, they the worst. Nothin but a buncha goddamn inbreed hillbillies. Now like that nigger gal we was talkin' 'bout. I'm sure it.was a pain in the ass, but with a lot of patience, that German lady taught Hildi how to speak German. Django hears her name himself. His head does involuntary jerk, but his ï¿½, emotions betray nothing.
PTE: CALVIN CANDIE ( CON'T )
CALVIN CANDIE: ( CON'T )
CALVIN CANDIE: What the hell's goin on?
BILLY CRASH: They got 'em a runaway.
CALVIN CANDIE: CUT TO
CUT TO: EXT - TRACKER SHACK - DAY A BUNKHOUSE for the FOUR HILLBILLY TRACKERS ( they track down runaway slaves ) that live here about forty miles from the Candyland Plantation. A little dog kennel, looks like a chicken coup, sits next to the The TRACKERS are a hairy, bearded, burly, buck skinned wearing, dirty long haired lot. Their Leader is Mr.,STONESIPHER, the other three are STEW, LEX, and JAKE. The four men could be brothers, or cousins, or father and sons, or just from the same hollow. Lex holds two SNARLING GERMAN SHEPHERDS on a leash. Stew one SNARLING GERMAN SHEPHERD on a leash. And Mr.Stonesipher holds one SNARLING GERMAN SHEPHERD on a leash, the lead dog, that goes by the name of
O V5: The fourth Tracker, JAKE, doesn't engage in the melodrama. He hangs in the background, CUTTING FIREWOOD with a big axe. Calvin Candie, Dr.Schultz, Django, and the whole Candie caravan look down on the runaway slave. Including the five new mandingos, and the three old mandingos who know D'Artagnan.
CALVIN CANDIE: Well I'll be, D'Artagnan. Now boy, why do a fool thing like run off?
D'ARTAGNAN: I can't fight no more, Monsieur Candie.
CALVIN CANDIE: Oh yes you can. You might not be able to win, but your ass can fight. - Mr.Stonesipher, shut these goddamn dogs up, I can't hear myself think! Mr.Stonesipher, yells to Marsha; Hush now! Marsha! Marsha, hush up! Marsha, Marsha, hush up! ( to the other
TRACKERS ): Take these goddamn dogs away from this nigger, he's just makin' em hungry. The other two YANK the dogs away from the fallen Black Man.
CALVIN CANDIE: How long was he loose? Mr. Stonesipher spits tobacco juice. A.night. Day. Half the other night.
CALVIN CANDIE: How far he git off property? Bout twenty miles off prop. Pretty fer, considering that limp he got.
CALVIN CANDIE: Moguy, who was D'Artagnan suppose to fight ( pointing behind him ) One of this new lot.
MOGUY: ( pointing behind him ) One of this new lot.
CALVIN CANDIE: Well the way he looks now a blind Indian wouldn't bet 'a bead on 'em.
CALVIN CANDIE: Now now, no beggin', no playin' on my soft heart. You in trouble now, son. Now you need to understand I'm runnin' a business. Now I done paid five hundred dollars for you. And when I pay five hundred dollars, I expect to get five fights outta a nigga 'fore he roll over and play dead. You've fought three fights.
D'ARTAGNAN: I won every one.
CALVIN CANDIE: Well, yes you did. But that last one, you muddied the line between winning and losing. Calvin climbs down off of his horse, and walks to the captured runaway on the ground.
CALVIN CANDIE: But the fact remains, I pay five hundred dollars, I want five fights. So what about my five hundred dollars? You gonna reimburse me? The Whites ( except for Schultz ) laugh. This whole spectacle is making Dr.Schultz sick to his stomach. Not Django . . he's seen this little drama play out many times before. The three returning mandingos, Rodney, Chicken Charly, and Chester, watch their fellow doomed servant pay the price for running away. The five new mandingos watch Calvin Candie's treatment of D'Artagnan to know what to expect from their new home. Bartholomew on the buckboard looks at the captured runaway like, poor Calvin prods further.
CALVIN CANDIE: You even know what reimburse means?
E 17: The Whites laugh. Then SUDDENLY . .The German Speaks; I'll reimburse you. All eyes turn to Dr.Schultz. Including Django's, whose eyes narrow at the doctor. Calvin Candie uses the occasion to perform a slow dramatic turn in the direction of the good German.
CALVIN CANDIE: You will? Removing his long brown leather billfold from his suit jacket pocket. You'll pay five hundred dollars for a one eyed Ole'Joe, ain't fit to push a Django's voice cuts through the Mississippi heat.
CALVIN CANDIE: You'll pay five hundred dollars for a one eyed Ole'Joe, ain't fit to push a Django's voice cuts through the Mississippi heat.
DJANGO: No he won't. All eyes turn to Django.
DJANGO: He's just tired'of you toyin' with him is all. And for that matter, so am I. But we ain't payin' a penny for that pickaninny, we ain't got no use for 'em. Ain't that right, Doc? Dr.Schultz realizes he's just done the one thing he's always preached to Django you can never do..BREAK CHARACTER. The doctor puts his billfold back in his suit coat pocket. You heard 'em. The Hillbilly Trackers stare up at the black man on the horse in the green jacket, slack jawed. !` Even the one chopping wood in the BG stops his chopping.
CALVIN CANDIE: You'll hafta excuse Mr.Stonesipher's slack jawed gaze. He ain't never seen a nigger like you ever in his life..Ain't that right, Mr. Stonesipher? Mr.. Stonesipher., SPITS. That's right. Calvin steps up to Django on his horse. Looking up at the black man, Calvin challenges Django to a staring contest.
CALVIN CANDIE: Well now since you won't pay a penny for this pickaninny, you won't mind me handlin' this nigger however I see fit?
DJANGO: He's your nigger.
CALVIN CANDIE: Mr.Ston.esipher. .let Marsha and her bitches send D'Artagnan to nigger heaven. Marsha.git 'em! The other Trackers let loose of the leashes holding the German Shepherds back. The DOGS CHARGE towards D'Artagnan on his knees.
THE MANDINGOS: all react to the sight of the dogs being let loose. The DOGS ATTACK D'ARTAGNAN . As we HEAR the ATTACK . Candie.staring contest with Django. Django, who expected nothing less and has seen worse, doesn't blink as the runaway slave is torn to bits by canine teeth . The other Mandingos are scared sick at what they see. The Hillbilly Trackers root the dogs on. Dr.Schultz has never seen a man torn apart by dogs before, and he appears not to enjoy it. Calvin, without blinking, shifts his eyes toward Dr.Schultz, then back ï¿½-. to Django.
P9: CALVIN CANDIE
CALVIN CANDIE: Your boss looks a little green around the gills for a blood sport like nigger fightin'? As D'Artagnan's SCREAMS and Marsha's GROWLS continue OFF SCREEN.
DJANGO: Naw, he just ain't use to seein' a man ripped apart by dogs, is all.
CALVIN CANDIE: But you are use to it?
DJANGO: Well, him bein' German an' all, I'm a little more use to American's then he is. Now Monsieur Candie, whenever you're ready, we rode five hours so you could show off your stock. Let's git to it. Cause as of now, if he's a example, I' ain't impressed. Saying nothing, Monsieur Candie turns his back to Django, climbs up on his horse, then looks at the black man.
CALVIN CANDIE: Follow me. The whole caravan rides off as the dogs continue to tear D'Artagnan EXT - THE GROUNDS OF CANDYLAND - DAY The caravan starts to approach Candyland. Calvin Candie and his sister own the fourth biggest cotton plantation in the state of Mississippi. As the parade gets closer we see fields of cotton, and fields of SLAVES picking it. The audience might of been expecting Candyland to be a hell on earth, Auschwitz, Andersonville, Yuma Prison, a Mexican prison in a Sergio Corbucci Spaghetti western . INSTEAD . . CANDYLAND is very beautiful. The fields of cotton, the way the trees hang green vines over everything. It's full of nature and natures vibrant colors, and a broiling hot sun to see it all in. One of the cottonpickers in the field, DOBIE, looks up, and sees Django in his cool green corduroy jacket, badass cowboy hat, on top of Tony. He taps the shoulder of another cotton picker ( ORWELL ), and points out All of a sudden all the bent over backs in the field, straighten up to get a better look at the black riding a horse. Django looks back matching their stare.
STEPHEN: eyeing Calvin and the approaching caravan. Who's STEPHEN? Stephen is a very old black man, who with his bald pate, and tufts of white curly hair on the sides, looks like a character out of Dickens - if Dickens wrote about House Niggers in the Antebellum South. - Stephen has been Calvin's slave since he was a little boy. And in ( almost ) every way is the 2nd most powerful person at Candyland. Like the characters Basil Rathbone would play in swashbucklers, evil, scheming, intriguing men, always trying to influence and manipulate power for their own self interest. Well that describes Stephen to a tee. The Basil Rathbone of House Niggers. The old Man watches the caravan and the trailing dust cloud approach.
CALVIN CANDIE: Hello Stephen my boy!
STEPHEN: Yeah yeah yeah, hello my ass - who's this nigger up on that nag?
CALVIN CANDIE: Oh Stephen, why so ornery, you miss me?
STEPHEN: Yeah, I miss you like I miss.a rock in my shoe. Like I said, who's this nigger, up on that nag?
DJANGO: If you wanna know who I am, or the name of my horse, you ask me.
STEPHEN: Just'who the hell you callin' Snowball, horse boy? I'll yank your ass of that goddamn'nag, so goddamn fast - in the mud.
CALVIN CANDIE: Whoa, whoa, whoa, Stephen, let's keep it funny. Django's a Freeman. Stephen jerks a thumb up towards Django.
STEPHEN: This nigger, here?
CALVIN CANDIE: That nigger there. Let me at least introduce the two of. you. Django, this is another cheeky black bugger like yourself, Stephen. Stephen, this is Django. You two should hate each other. Stephen uses'the special privilege he and he alone enjoys amongst the blacks at Candyland.
STEPHEN: Calvin, who the hell is this nigger you feel the need to entertain?
CALVIN CANDIE: Django and his friend in grey, Dr.Schultz are customers, and they are our guests Stephen. And you - you old decrepit bastard. .are to show them every hospitality. Do you understand that?
STEPHEN: I don't know why I gotta -
CALVIN CANDIE: You don't hafta know why, do you Yeah yeah yeah, I understand just fine.
STEPHEN: Yeah yeah yeah, I understand just fine.
CALVIN CANDIE: Good. They're spending the night. Go up in the guest bedrooms and get two ready.
STEPHEN: ( POINTING AT DJANGO )
DJANGO ): He's gonna stay in the Big House?
CALVIN CANDIE: Stephen, he's a slaver. It's different.
STEPHEN: ( INCREDULOUS )
CALVIN CANDIE: You gotta problem with that?
STEPHEN: I don't gotta problem, unless you gotta problem with burin' the bed, the sheets, and the pillow cases once this black ass motherfuckers gone!
CALVIN CANDIE: That's my problem, they're mine to burn. Your problem, right now, is making a good impression. And I want you to start solving that problem right now, and git them rooms ready. The Old Man looks up at his Master, and says;
STEPHEN: Yes sir, Monsieur Candie. Stephen limps away to the guest rooms, muttering to'himself. Lara Lee and her ever present shadow, a FAT MAMMY named CORA, comes up to her brother on his horse.
CALVIN CANDIE: Dr.Schultz, this attractive southern belle is my widowed sister, may I present to you, Lara Lee Candie-Fitzwilly. Lara Lee does a southern lady bow. Dr.Schultz lifts his bowler hat, and nods in a grand manner. I am Dr.King Schultz, this is my 2nd ( Django tips his hat ) and these are our horses, Fritz and Tony. Both Fritz and Tony do the head bow. And it is our great delight to encounter this flaming rose.
LARA LEE: Well aren't you the charming gentlemen. You're not from around here, are you? Actually I'm from a far off land, Dusseldorf, to be exact.
CALVIN CANDIE: These two are in the market for a fightin' nigger. So I thought I'd invite 'em down, show 'em my stock.
LARA LEE: We'll all have dinner tonight, right?
CALVIN CANDIE: Half the reason I invited them. I thought you'd find.them as intriguing as I do little sister. Lara Lee looks up at Django, and smiles. All of a sudden THREE WHITE RIDERS ride up on horses, a older one, and two tough looking younger ones. The'older one is the Cap't of the Overseers, ACE WOODY, and his two assistants BROWN and JINGLE BELLS CODY. While Ace is dressed for work on a farm, both Brown and Jingle Bells Cody are peacocks who wear cool cowboy outfits. As Calvin Candie watches the three riders approach, he turns to Dr.Schultz and Django, and says;
CALVIN CANDIE: You know since I started fightin' niggers about eleven years ago, it's been a new lease on'life. And the man ridin' up here now is the man responsible for all my Ace and his boys pull their horses up, kicking up dust. Through the dust Ace, Brown, and Jingle Bells Cody eyeball Django and Howdy Ace.
CALVIN CANDIE: Howdy Ace.
CALVIN CANDIE: And that's Brown and that's Jingle Bells Ace, this here is Dr.Ring Schultz, and Django Freeman, they're big customers with big pockets wanna buy a big nigger. So I brought 'em out here so you could give 'em a little display of our African flesh. Ace takes off his hat, bows from his horse, welcoming them.
ACE WOODY: Welcome to Candyland, gentlemen. Astride their horses Brown and Jingle Bells Cody just make faces at Ace's attention goes to the five new mandingos.just walked from Greenville to here.
ACE WOODY: These the new chickens?
CALVIN CANDIE: Yes siree bob.
ACE WOODY: How many you get?
CALVIN CANDIE: Five real strong bucks.
ACE WOODY: How many you get rid of?
CALVIN CANDIE: We still got three left. Ace looks to see who came back from the auction. Leo Moguy chimes in;
MOGUY: I already wired the LeQuint Dickey people, they'll be here tomorrow. Ace turns to Brown.
ACE WOODY: Get 'em away from the others. Put 'em in the pen till tomorrow. Brown with his horse, yells, chases, and herds the three men away into the slave pen. Ace yells from his horse down to the five new mandingo arrivals, Big Fred, Banjo, Sidney James, Tatum,.and Joshua.
ACE WOODY: Y'all stand over there and make a line! They do. Ace climbs down from off his horse. Cody stays in his saddle, circling the black men with his horse. Everybody, including Django and Dr.Schultz, watch the show. Ace'Woody walks up and down the line looking at the new men. Candie, sitting comfortably up on his horse, says;
CALVIN CANDIE: What do you think?
ACE WOODY: I think you lookin' for niggers to push a plow, 'dem your boys. Candie rolls his eyes.
CALVIN CANDIE: What's wrong with them?
ACE WOODY: Hold it.hold it, you done bought r em, let me look at 'em. Unimpressed Ace Woody continues to examine them.
ACE WOODY: Okay, how 'bout that one, did you buy that one?
CALVIN CANDIE: Which one?
ACE WOODY: What you mean, which one? The one I'm pointing at, that one.
CALVIN CANDIE: Actually, that one was purchased by our mister Moguy.
ACE WOODY: ( TO MOGUY )
MOGUY: Yes I did.
ACE WOODY: I like his prospects.
MOGUY: I like his prospects.
ACE WOODY: His prospects? Now you know Mr..Moguy, I ain't a educated fella like yourself. Remind me again what prospects means?
MOGUY: Hope for the future. Jerking a thumb towards the slave in question.
ACE WOODY: You got hope for his future?
MOGUY: I did.
ACE WOODY: Well I don't. Ace walks over to the slave in question.
ACE WOODY: What's your name, boy? The mandingo says;
SIDNEY JAMES: Sidney James, sir.
ACE WOODY: So long Sidney James. Ace takes the peacemaker out of the holster on his hip, and SHOOTS Sidney James point blank in the belly. Everybody reacts. Especially the four other mandingos standing next to him. Sidney James rolls in the dirt, screaming and holding his bleeding gut. Till Cody puts a bullet in his head, putting him out of his misery. Moguy, shakes his head, "Typical," he thinks. Django and Schultz, on their horses next. to Candid, watch. Ace looks up at his boss.
ACE WOODY: Boss Candie, which one did you buy?
CALVIN CANDIE: Well to me the pick of the litter is Big Fred over there.
ACE WOODY: ( POINTING AT FRED )
FRED ): This one over here?
CALVIN CANDIE: ACE WOODY ( TO FRED )
ACE WOODY: ( TO FRED )
BIG FRED: Yes, sir.
ACE WOODY: Well good to meet'cha Fred, I'm'Ace Woody, I'm a man of influence 'round here. Now Fred am I mistaken, or were you already in a kurfuffle?
CALVIN CANDIE: I had 'em fight one of Amerigo's niggers last night.
'ACE WOODY: How is of Amerigo?
CALVIN CANDIE: His nigger lost.
ACE WOODY: ( TO FRED )
BIG FRED: Yes, sir.
ACE WOODY: Wup'ed his ass?
CALVIN CANDIE: Beat 'em to death. Smiling impressively at Big Fred.
ACE WOODY: ( TO FRED ) CALVIN CANDIE
CALVIN CANDIE: He did have fifteen pounds on 'em, but still, he still beat his ass to death.
ACE WOODY: ( TO FRED )
ACE WOODY: Good job, boy. Got any more wins in ya?
BIG FRED: Yes, sir. Ace gives Cody a slight head nod, and Cody SHOOTS Big Fred in the back. Candie acts out mock frustration. The remaining three mandingos jump a mile.
CALVIN CANDIE: Now why did you do that?
ACE WOODY: He won his last fight last night. Ace puts his eyes on the three remaining mandingos
ACE WOODY: ( TO MANDINGOS )
ACE WOODY: Run 'em over to the Arena. Git 'em doin push ups. First one gives out, shoot 'em in the head.
CALVIN CANDLE: We only get about two out of every batch of five fighters we buy. But those two tend to be lucky. Ace Woody hops back up on his horse.
CALVIN CANDIE: You know Mr.Woody, I'm beginning to think that you don't trust my judgement? Ace Woody just smiles at his boss, and says;
ACE WOODY: Oh you know I always trust your judgement, Boss Candie.eventually. He rides off. Stephen limps back to the action.
CALVIN CANDIE: Ahhh, Stephen my boy, rooms ready?
STEPHEN: All ready for your guest and his nigger. Candie'shakes his head in mock frustration.
CALVIN CANDIE: Stephen, you're incorrigible.
CALVIN CANDLE: ( CON'T )
CALVIN CANDIE: Timmy boy, go take their horses for 'em. Fix 'em up at the stable, give 'em a load of oats. Django hands the boy the reigns.
DJANGO: That's Fritz, this is Tony. You take good care of 'em now.
TIMMY: Yes, sir. Django takes an apple out of his saddle bag, and hands it to the boy.
DJANGO: Once he's in the stable, give 'em that. He reaches back in the saddle and pulls out another one.
DJANGO: Give that one to Fritz. Timmy leads the horses away. The two visitors start to follow Stephen to their rooms, when Dr.Schultz pretends to remember something; Oh, Monsieur Candie, about that matter about the nigger girl we were talking about?
CALVIN CANDIE: Nigger girl? I believe you said she spoke German?
CALVIN CANDIE: Oh Yes, Hildi, what about her? Do you think before the demonstration you could send her around to my room?
CALVIN CANDIE: I don't see why not.
STEPHEN: Actually. . Monsieur Candie. . there's
CALVIN CANDIE: Hildi's in The Hot Box. This gets Django's, Schultz's, and Candie's attention.
STEPHEN: Hildi's in The Hot Box. This gets Django's, Schultz's, and Candie's attention.
CALVIN CANDIE: What's she doin' there?
STEPHEN: What 'cha think she doin' in The Hot Box, she bein punished.
CALVIN CANDIE: What she do?
STEPHEN: She ran away again.
CALVIN CANDIE: Jesus Christ, how many people ran away when I was gone?
STEPHEN: CALVIN CANDIE
CALVIN CANDIE: When did she go?
STEPHEN: Last night. They brought her back this How bad did Stonesipher's dogs tear her up? Django's hand falls to the butt of his smoke wagon. If they sicked those dogs on his angel, he's going to just kill all these motherfuckers right now.
CALVIN CANDLE: How bad did Stonesipher's dogs tear her up? Django's hand falls to the butt of his smoke wagon. If they sicked those dogs on his angel, he's going to just kill all these motherfuckers right now.
STEPHEN: Lucky for her they were busy lookin' for D'Artagnan's ass. Brown and Cody went out lookin' for her and found her. She a little beat up, but she did that to herself. Runnin' through them damn bushes. Django's hand moves away from his gun.
CALVIN CANDIE: How long she been in the box?
STEPHEN: What'cha think, all goddamn day! Little fool got ten more days to go.
CALVIN CANDLE: Take her out.
STEPHEN: ( INCREDULOUS )
CALVIN CANDLE: Because I said so, that's why. Hildi is my nigger. Dr.Schultz is my guest. Southern hospitality dictates I make her available to him.
STEPHEN: But Monsieur Candie, she just ran away?
CALVIN CANDLE: Jesus Christ Stephen, what's the point of havin' a nigger speaks German if-you can't wheel 'em out when you have a German guest? I realize it's inconvenient. Still, take her out. ( to Cora and
STEPHEN: ( TO DJANGO )
STEPHEN: This one's yours, boy. That bed's damn nice too. Django walks over to the window, parts the curtains and peers out. Broomhilda's gone. As he looks through the glass, snotty Stephen rattles on in the background.
STEPHEN: Feel free to touch anything you want, cause we burnin' all this shit once you gone. I'll have somebody knock on the door when the demonstration ready. Django sits down on the bed. Stephen turns to leave.
DJANGO: Not so fast.
STEPHEN: I got more important things to do then jaw with you.
DJANGO: Nigger, when I say stop you plant roots. Both the words and the tone stop Stephen dead. He turns around.
DJANGO: This tiny bell on this little table. .is this for you? I ring this, you do fer me?
STEPHEN: Me or somebody. Django reaches over and picks up the bell. ( a soft ) DING-A-LING
STEPHEN: ( UNAMUSED )
DJANGO: I want you to pour some water in that bowl for my wash up. Stephen does what he's told, but with attitude.
)O': Django shuts the guest room door so the two men are alone. Once Stephen's done, Django stands up from the bed.
DJANGO: Stephen hands him the basin full of water. Django takes it from him. Then throws the water in Stephen's face. The dripping wet old slave can do nothing against this free man.
DJANGO: Whatsamatter Stephen, you don't like Django takes his hand and SLAPS the old man hard across the face knocking him to the floor;
DJANGO: That's my kinda bell ringin'. Git up. he does - Django SLAPS HIM TO THE FLOOR again. Then Django sits back down on the bed, looking at the old man on the floor below his knees.
DJANGO: I've known me House Niggers like you my whole life. Play your dog tricks with your Massa'. Ya' lip off to him every now an' then, as long as ya' keep it funny. He rolls his eyes and puts up with it, and all the white folks think it's so cute. Meanwhile you got all these niggas round here hoppin' and jumpin' to stay on your good side. Well this time Snowball, you gonna listen to me. You got anymore sass you wanna sling my way, before they give us a mandingo demonstration, I'm gonna give this whole motherfuckin plantation a demonstration, of ME beatin' the BLACK off your ass. I will make you drop your drawers, I'll take off my belt, and I will Wup' your bare ass with it, in front of every nigga on this plantation. And after I do that, let's see you play the rooster round here.
X07: Calvin wouldn't. let you do it.
STEPHEN: Calvin wouldn't. let you do it.
DJANGO: Oh that's right, he gives you first name privileges. . ain't that cute. Sass me me again nigger, see what happen'. Stephen lying on the floor, bites his tongue.
DJANGO: That's what I thought. Now git outta"here. With as much dignity as he can muster, Stephen stands up. Before he leaves, Django tells him;,
DJANGO: When I ring this bell, you better come a runnin'. You - not nobody else. While I'm on this property, you my nigger Stephen leaves. Django lies down on the bed. He covers his eyes with his arm. A door joins Django and Schultz's room. The adjoining door opens, and Schultz stands there. Was that wise? Django doesn't remove his arm from.his eyes.
DJANGO: He ain't tellin' nobody 'bout that. That's all that needs to be said.
DOG: LARA LEE ( TO BROOMHILDA )
LARA LEE: Dr.Schultz, may I introduce to you, Hildi. Hildi, this is Dr.Schultz, he speaks German. I've been informed you do as well.
BROOMHILDA: ( GERMAN ) ( IN GERMAN )
BROOMHILDA: Yes. How do you know that? Stands to reason who ever taught you German would also give you a German name. Can I pour you a glass of water, Hearing her name being spoke properly for the first time in awhile, not to mention with a German accent, does have a bit of a calming influence on the frightened girl.
BROOMHILDA: ( GERMAN ) ( GERMAN )
BROOMHILDA: ( GERMAN ) ( GERMAN )
BROOMHILDA: ( GERMAN ) ( GERMAN ) ( GERMAN ) ( GERMAN )
BROOMHILDA: ( GERMAN )
DJANGO: Hey Little Trouble Maker. Obviously a pet name between them. Broomhilda goes into a bit of shock. .first she loses strength in her wrist, so the glass tips over, and the water spills on the floor . .followed quickly by herself spilling on the floor in a dead. faint.
MONTAGE: WE DISSOLVE to later, as we see Dr.Schultz and Django explain what- they're doing there, who they're pretending to be, and what their plan is to Broomhilda. We hear a woman whistle a soft pretty tune on the soundtrack. It's not a happy tune.. .per se. But it's pretty, and vaguely optimistic . WE DISSOLVE TO The SLAVE PEN The doomed men who didn't sell at Greenville, brooding Rodney and Chester and Chicken Charly, spend their last night at Candyland sleeping under the stars in The Slave Pen. The same whistling tune continues over this scene. Rodney sees, The whole slave selling and buying group, Django, Dr.Schultz, Candie, Bartholomew, Moguy, Ace Woody, Brown and Cody, and the Overseers, walk across the plantation grounds on their way to The Arena. Laughin' and joshin' all the way. The hatred Rodney feels for that group of men burns inside him like a red hot poker. A study in powerless fury.
STEPHEN: What you. whistlin', girl? Broomhilda stops whistling and spins surprised in Stephen's direction.
STEPHEN: What was you whistlin'?
BROOMHILDA: Oh nuttin'.
STEPHEN: You weren't whistlin' nothin', you were whistlin' somethin'. What'cha whistlin'?
BROOMHILDA: I dunno. Somethin' I heard. I don't know It's kinder pretty. She doesn't say anything in return.
STEPHEN: It's kinder pretty. She doesn't say anything in return.
STEPHEN: That was a compliment.
BROOMHILDA: Thank you. Stephen steps out of the shadows into the light closer to Broomhilda.
STEPHEN: I'm just sayin', two days ago you wus' in such misery here, you hadda run off. So you run off, we catch your ass an' drag you back. Then we stick your bare ass to sizzle in The Hot Box for' 'bout ten hours. Now here you are two days later, whistlin' while you work. I'm just sayin', I.wouldn' think you'd have a hellva lot to whistle 'bout. .I'm jus' sayin'. He watches the effect his words have on Broomhilda's face.
BROOMHILDA: I'm done here, may I be excused?
STEPHEN: Yes you may. She moves off to another part of the house. He watches her shuffle off.
CALVIN CANDIE: Oh you never know how these nigger nicknames get started. His name was Joe-.maybe one day he said he was cold.. .who knows? Irregardless, we all know Samson's your best, and you'll never sell him and I can see why, he's a champion.
CALVIN CANDIE: All three are champions. Django contradicts, as he chews his steak;
DJANGO: Samson's the champion. The other two are pretty good. All the Domestic Slaves around the table STIFFEN at witnessing Django contradict Calvin Candie. Including Broomhilda, who's wielding the Gravy Boat. After Django says that, while in shock, she over pours beef gravy on Lara Lee's mashed Broomhilda snaps back. Instead of getting angry, Candle seems to reflect on that analysis, then issues his own appraisal;
LARA LEE: Broomhilda snaps back. Instead of getting angry, Candle seems to reflect on that analysis, then issues his own appraisal;
CALVIN CANDIE: Can Eskimo Joe whip Sampson, no. Can he take Goldie, probably not - Goldie's the best dirty fightin' nigger I ever saw. But as long as you don't put 'em up against those two., Eskimo Joe will whip any niggers ass.
DJANGO: The Domestics FREEZE for a jerky second when Django says that.
F: You must understand, Monsieur Candie, while admittedly a .neophyte in the nigger fight game, I do have a bit of a background in the European traveling circus. Hence, I have big ideas when it comes to presentation. I need something more then just a big nigger. He needs to have panache. A sense of showmanship. I want to be able to . bill. him as. The Black Hercules. I said., and I quote; "I would pay top dollar for the, right nigger." Now I'm not saying Eskimo Joe is the wrong nigger - per se . but is he right as rain . ? Everyone waits for Calvin's response. He milks the moment by taking a sip of his mint julep, then says;
CALVIN CANDIE: Dr.Schultz, i will have you know, there is no one in the nigger fight game that appreciates the value of showmanship more then, Monsieur Calvin J. Candie. But one must not forget the most important thing in the nigger fight game.
CALVIN CANDIE: I see you two gettin' on? Dr.Schultz breaks into a wide grin; Monsieur Candie, you can't imagine what it's like not to hear you native tongue for four years.
CALVIN CANDIE: Hell, I can't imagine two weeks in Boston.
Â»5: Everybody at the table chuckles. I can't express the joy I felt conversing in my mother tongue. And Broomhilda is a charming conversation companion. As Broomhilda holds the bowl of green beans for Moguy, Lara Lee notices how Django and Broomhilda look and try not to look at each other. Stephen enters the room with a fresh mint julep for Monsieur Candie.
LARA LEE: I don't know doctor, you can lay on all the German sweet talk you want, but it looks like this ponys got big eyes for Lara Lee has no idea how right she is, but when she said it, all three, Django, Broomhilda, and Schultz, involuntarily jerk.
CALVIN CANDIE: Stephen, you're amazing. I haven't finished a drink in this house in twenty years.
STEPHEN: When a man likes a cold drink, a man likes a COLD drink. Chuckle. . chuckle.
CALVIN CANDIE: Did you overhear that joke I said about me spending two weeks in Boston
STEPHEN: ( MOCK INDIGNANT )
CALVIN CANDIE: What does that hafta do with the price of Tea in China?
STEPHEN: You think when I'm in that kitchen, I got nothin' better to do then listen in here to you tellin' unfunny jokes? Chuckle. . chuckle.
CALVIN CANDIE: ( MOCK INDIGNATION )
STEPHEN: Of course they laughed, their parents raised them right. When they're a guest in somebody's house, and the master of of the house thinks he's- funny, you suppose to laugh. They'd be rude not to. Chuckle. .chuckle. They play their little comedy routine for all it's worth.
CALVIN CANDIE: No it was really funny,
STEPHEN: Now what do you expect these people to say? What you need to do is stop embarrassing your guest.
STEPHEN: You know that nigger? /ï¿½ She spins around.
BROOMHILDAÂ¢: Don't stall me bitch, you know who?
STEPHEN: Don't stall me bitch, you know who?
BROOMHILDA: At the table? I don't know him.
BROOMHILDA: You wouldn't lie to me now, would you? She shakes her head, no. Stephen looks at her skeptical.
STEPHEN: You wouldn't lie to me now, would you? She shakes her head, no. Stephen looks at her skeptical.
STEPHEN: Okay, if you say so.
DJANGO: Eskimo Joe's a quality nigger, no doubt about it. But if it was my money, I wouldn't pay twelve thousand dollars for him. What would your price be?
DJANGO: Well, if I ,was inclined to be generous,. and I don't know why I would be inclined to be generous. . nine thousand . . maybe. Candie's lawyer chimes in.
MOGUY: But the real question is, not how much he cost, but how much he can earn? In a years time, seven or eight fights - outside of Mississippi - where his Candyland pedigree weren't well known - Virginia.
DJANGO: In a years time, seven or eight fights - outside of Mississippi - where his Candyland pedigree weren't well known - Virginia.
11Y: ( CON'T )
DJANGO: ( CON'T )
CALVIN CANDIE: Precisely Bright Boy, good on ya. Any way you cut that cake, that spells profit. Not to, mention a years worth of action at the big table in a blood sport with a winner nigger. However let me reclarify how this whole negotiation came about. It wasn't me who came to you to sell a nigger, it was you who approached me to buy one. Now that nine thousand dollar figure Bright Boy was banding about, ain't too far off from right. And if I wanted to sell Eskimo Joe for that, I could sell 'em any day of the week. But like you said in Greenville doctor, I don't wanna sell 'em. It was only your ridiculous offer of twelve thousand dollars that would make me consider it. Dr.Schultz considers'Calvin Candie's words, then suddenly says; You know Monsieur Candie. . you do possess the power of persuasion. Candie smiles at that remark. Then SUDDENLY Schultz SLAPS the table hard with his hand, and says; Why not! Monsieur Candie, you have a deal, Eskimo Joe, twelve thousand dollars! The White people at the table get very happy. Dr.Schultz continues; However, that is a tremendous amount of money. And the way you have your Mr.Moguy, I have a lawyer, a persnickety man named Tuttle. And I would need my man to draw up a legal contract before I would feel comfortable exchanging that amount of money for flesh. Not to mention having Eskimo Joe examined by a physician of my choosing. So say I return in about five days time with my Mr.Tuttle. And then my Mr.Tuttle and your Mr.Moguy can hash out the finer points between themselves.
CALVIN CANDIE: ( CALLING TO THE KITCHEN )
BROOMHILDA: Can I take away your dishes, Monsieur Candle?
CALVIN CANDIE: Yes you may, Hildi. She begins gathering the dirty dishes. Candie looks up at her as she works.
CALVIN CANDIE: So Hildi, how you like servin at the big table in the big house?
BROOMHILDA: I like it a lot Monsieur Candle.
CALVIN CANDIE: It's a lot better then sizzling in that hot box, or draggin' your ass through a bramble bush, ain't it?
BROOMHILDA: Yes 'em. With Candie interrogating Broomhilda, Django tenses up. Stephen clocks this. Stephen decides to test Django's reaction.
STEPHEN: You know Monsieur Candle, the doctor might be interested in seein' Hildi's "peeled" back. Seein' as he don't see many niggers where he from.
CALVIN CANDIE: ( TO SCHULTZ )
CALVIN CANDIE: So you haven't seen her back? No I haven't.
CALVIN CANDIE: Then Stephen's right, you would probably find this interesting. Hildi, take off your dress, and show us your back. Django hears this. Broomhilda instinctively shoots a look to Django. Stephen clocks it.
LARA LEE: Calvin, I just got her all dressed up and looking nice.
CALVIN CANDIE: But Lara Lee, Dr.Schultz is from Dusseldorf, they don't got niggers there. And he's a man of medicine. I'm sure it would fascinate him, the niggers endurance for pain. I mean Hildi got something like fifteen lashes on her back. Lara Lee get one, she'd lose her mind. These niggers are tough, no doubt about it.
LARA LEE: Calvin, we are eating - dessert, no less. Ain't no one wanna see her whipped up back. Django continues to watching this play out. Stephen watches him. Candie folds.
CALVIN CANDIE: Okay okay Lara. Maybe after dinner. During the brandies. Broomhilda - dismissed - takes Calvin's dishes and heads back into the Stephen takes one more look at Django, and follows Broomhilda behind the kitchen door.
STEPHEN: I thought you said you didn't know him? Broomhilda turns around.
BROOMHILDA: Stephen approaches her, the other Domestics get quiet and watch.
STEPHEN: I said, you said, you didn't know him?
BROOMHILDA: I don't.
STEPHEN: Yes you do.
BROOMHILDA: Mister Stephen, I don't.
STEPHEN: Why you lyin to me? As tears begin to well in her eyes.
BROOMBILDA: I ain't.
STEPHEN: Why you cryin'?
BROOMHILDA: Because you're scarin' me.
STEPHEN: Why am I scarin' you?
BROOMHILDA: Because you're scary. Things have become so tense and quiet in the kitchen, that the dinner table conversation begins to bleed inside. We hear Dr.Schultz in the next room say; Dr.SCHULTZ ( OS ) .to speak German,with Hildi this afternoon was positively soul enriching. Stephen hears this, he's starting to get the idea.
1ZL: His eyes to to Broomhilda.
STEPHEN: You, stay in the kitchen. Stephen moves to the kitchen door, swings it open, and watches Dr.Schultz prepare to proposition Candie for Broomhilda. Stephen knows these two jokers ( Django and Schultz ) are up to something, and now he's just figured it out.
CALVIN CANDIE: Yes siree bob I did. Well in that case allow me to propose another proposition? In full "Ole Jimmie" performance, Stephen BARGES in the room, INTERRUPTING Dr.Schultz.
STEPHEN: - Monsieur Candie?
CALVIN CANDIE: Stephen, you just interrupted Dr.Schultz.
STEPHEN: ( to Dr.Schultz ) Oh, I do apologize, doctor. My hearin' ain't worth a damn these days.
CALVIN CANDIE: What, you mean get outta my chair?
STEPHEN: If you could manage it. It's about dessert.
CALVIN CANDIE: What about dessert?
STEPHEN: I would rather tell you in private.
CALVIN CANDIE: We're having rhubarb pie, what sort of melodrama could be brewing back there?
STEPHEN: Meet me in the library. Well that's a horse of a different color. That means whatever Stephen has to say, hasn't anything to do with rhubarb pie. "Meet me in the library" is their secret signal.
CALVIN CANDIE: Fine friend Stephen, I'll be along momentarily. Stephen exits. Candie stands up from his chair and addresses the table.
CALVIN CANDIE: Well as you can see, talented no doubt as they are in the kitchen, from time to time, adult supervision is required. If you'll excuse me a moment. Candie exits.
CALVIN CANDIE: What's the matter?
STEPHEN: Those motherfuckers ain't here to buy no mandingos. They want that girl. -
CALVIN CANDIE: What the hell you talkin' about?
STEPHEN: They playin your ass for a fool, that's what I'm talkin' bout. They ain't here for no muscle bound Jimmie, they here for that girl.
CALVIN CANDIE: What girl, Hildi?
STEPHEN: Yeah, Hildi. The niggers know each other.
CALVIN CANDIE: He just bought Eskimo Joe.
STEPHEN: Did he give you any money?
CALVIN CANDIE: Well not yet, but -
STEPHEN: - Then he didn't R ..Y diddly, not yet no how. But he was just about to buy, who he came here to buy, when I interrupted him. Thank you Stephen - you're welcome Calvin.
CALVIN CANDIE: Where you gettin' all this? Why would they go through all that trouble, to. buy a nigger with a chewed up back, ain't worth five hundred dollars?
STEPHEN: Well they're doin' it cause Django's in love with Hildi. She's probably his wife. Now why that German gives a fuck about who that uppity son-of-abitch is in love with, I'm sure I don't know.
CALVIN CANDIE: If she's who they want, why the whole snake oil pitch about mandingos?
STEPHEN: Because you wouldn't pay no never mind to four hundred dollar. But twelve thousand got you real friendly. Calvin thinks . .as per usual, Stephen's right.
CALVIN CANDIE: Those lyin' goddamn.time wastin' Sonsabitches! You just watch, I'm gonna fix their wagon but good! Stephen, we .gonna have us a Candyland tar and Now Calvin.. .not that I wouldn't enjoy seein' something like that . . but why don't you sit down and let's talk about this.
FL5: Now Calvin.. .not that I wouldn't enjoy seein' something like that . . but why don't you sit down and let's talk about this.
STEPHEN: Now Calvin.. .not that I wouldn't enjoy seein' something like that . . but why don't you sit down and let's talk about this.
CALVIN CANDLE: I let a goddamn nigger and nigger lovin' huckster insinuate themselves at my dinner table, and play this whole goddamn plantation for a fool!
STEPHEN: Calm-the-fuck-down, sit down, and let's discuss this. A frustrated Calvin finally collapses in the chair.
STEPHEN: Now look, you knew, and I knew, there was something up with these two. We just didn't know what. But now we do. They don't want you to know how bad they want that girl. But these ole boys have rode a lotta miles, went t6 a whole lotta trouble, and done spread a whole lotta bull to get this girl. They must want her mighty bad. Way I see it, ain't nothin' changed. They wanna buy a nigger, you wanna sell a nigger.The only thing done changed is the advantage.
SEEING HIM;: LARA LEE
LARA LEE: There you are! I was beginning to think you and that of crow ran off together. Schultz and Django feel the change in their host's demeanor, as he stares down the table at them.
CALVIN CANDLE: That'd be a hellva note, wouldn't it Lara Lee?
1Z J: CALVIN CANDIE ( CON'T ) CALVIN CANDIE
CALVIN CANDIE: ( CON'T ) CALVIN CANDIE
CALVIN CANDIE: Can I ask you two gentlemen to look over your shoulder? Schultz and Django do, and see Bartholomew with his sawed off shotgun pointing at them. Calvin Candie removes his arm from behind his back, and in his hand he's holding a big ugly hammer.
CALVIN CANDIE: Now lay your palms flat on the table top. They put their palms on the table.
CALVIN CANDIE: Now you lift those palms off that turtle shell table top, Bartholomew gonna let loose with both barrels of that sawed off. There's been a lotta lies said around this table tonight-but that.. .you can believe.
CALVIN CANDIE: Now where were we? Oh yes, I do believe you were just getting ready to make me a proposition to buy Broomhilda. Right? Stephen! Bring out Hildi! Stephen enters the dining room through the kitchen door, holding roughly in his grip, Broomhilda. He holds a small Derringer pistol against the side of her head. Django and Schultz react.
CALVIN CANDIE: ( YELLING TO STEPHEN )
STEPHEN ): Stephen! Bring out Hildi! Stephen enters the dining room through the kitchen door, holding roughly in his grip, Broomhilda. He holds a small Derringer pistol against the side of her head. Django and Schultz react.
CALVIN CANDIE: Now it should be quite clear by now I know you're not here to buy no mandingos. Reason y'all came to Candyland, is y'all want Broomhilda. But y'all don't want me to know how much you want 'er. So instead, you waste my time with all this Eskimo Joe Stephen, put her in that chair. Stephen sits the young lady down in Moguy's old chair. With their palms against the table, unarmed, Django and Schultz silently watch Candie's next move. Candie, still holding the hammer, continues.
CALVIN CANDIE: Now the way I see it, ain't nothin' changed.. You still wanna buy a nigger, I still wanna sell one. So, with that in mind, in Greenville, Dr.Schultz, you yourself said, "For the Right Nigger you'd be willing to pay what some would consider a ridiculous amount." To which, me myself said, "What is your definition of ridiculous?" To which you said, "Twelve thousand dollars." Now considering you two have ridden a whole lotta miles, went to a whole lotta trouble, and done spread a whole lotta bull, to purchase the lovely lady to my left, it would appear that Broomhilda is, "The Right Nigger." And if y'all wanna leave Candyland with Broomhilda, the price is twelve thousand dollars. I take it you prefer the take it or leave it style of negotiating. Candie continuing to hold the hammer continues.
CALVIN CANDIE: Under the laws of Chickasaw County, Broomhilda is my property. And I can do anything with my property I so desire. He brings the big hammer down hard on the dinner table, making everybody jump.
IN: CALVIN CANDIE
CALVIN CANDIE: And if you think my price for this nigger is too steep, what I'm gonna desire to do is, take this hammer and beat her ass to death with it. Right in front of both y'all. He SMASHES the arm rest of the chair Broomhilda's sitting in.
CALVIN CANDIE: Put up or shut up, Schultz. You wanna save this nigger bitch, you gonna pay my price. May I lift my hands from the table top in order to remove my billfold?
CALVIN CANDIE: Yes you may. Dr.Schultz removes his long brown leather billfold from his gray suit jacket, and says;, Easy come, easy go. He slides the billfold down the table to Candie. The plantation owner takes out the money, does a quick count, then looks down the table at the seated Schultz, and says;
CALVIN CANDIE: Pleasure doin' business with you.
TIME CUT: INT - DINING ROOM ( BIG HOUSE ) - NIGHT INSERT: Calvin signing over Broomhilda's BILL OF SALE. .Moguy signs as a witness. Broomhilda stands next to Django, and watches her Master sign her freedom papers. Dr.Schultz sits off by himself. He's very disturbed. All the white people with Calvin Candie are happy and celebrate Candie's successes with glasses of Brandy. Lara Lee, Ace Woody, and Brown and Cody have joined the' celebration. For an experienced horsetrader, the just concluded transaction is a thing of legend. He just sold a Pony, with a tore up back, and a runaway "r" burned in her cheek - ain't worth five hundred dollars- for twelve thousand. Stephen smiles and laughs it up with everybody else. The Other domestics bring out little plates of rhubarb pie, and buzz around pouring coffee for the white people. Candie walks over to the seated Schultz, he carries a small plate of rhubarb pie with him.
CALVIN CANDIE: ( TO SCHULTZ ) CALVIN CANDIE
CALVIN CANDIE: Are you brooding 'bout me getting the best of ya? Actually, I was thinking of that poor devil you fed to the dogs today, D'Artagnan. And I was wondering what Dumas would make of all this. Calvin hands the doctor the two pieces of paper he needs. Broomhilda's bill of sale, and her freedom papers. As he says the following he examines he papers.
CALVIN CANDIE: Alexander Dumas. He wrote "The Three Musketeers." I figured you must be an admirer. You named your slave after that novel's lead character. If Alexander Dumas had been there today, I wonder what he would of made of it?
CALVIN CANDIE: You doubt he'd approve? Yes his approval would be a dubious proposition at best.
CALVIN CANDIE: Soft hearted Frenchy? Alexander Dumas is black.
CALVIN CANDIE: One more moment, Doc! It's a custom here in the South, once a business deal is concluded, for the two parties to shake hands. It implies good I'm not from the South. He turns to leave.
CALVIN CANDIE: It's a custom here in the South, once a business deal is concluded, for the two parties to shake hands. It implies good I'm not from the South. He turns to leave.
CALVIN CANDIE: You're in my house, doctor, I'm afraid I must insist. This turns Schultz around. Insist what.? That I shake your hand before I leave? Then I'm afraid I must insist in the opposite direction. Calvin walks closer to the German doctor.
CALVIN CANDIE: You know what I think you are? What you think I am? No I don't.
CALVIN CANDLE: I think you are a bad loser. And I think you're an abysmal winner.
CALVIN CANDLE: Never the less, here in Chickasaw County a deal ain't done till the two parties have shook hands. Even after all this paper signin', don't mean shit you don't shake my hand. If I don't shake your hand, you're gonna throw away twelve thousand dollars.? I don't think so. Schultz looks to Django and Broomhilda. Let's go.
CALVIN CANDIE: Bartholomew, if she tries to leave here before this German shakes my hand. Cut 'er down. Schultz looks to Django. . then to Candle.. .and then with a smile on his face, and a twinkle in his eye, asks
CANDLE;: You really want me to shake your hand? Django gets it.
CALVIN CANDIE: I insist.
DR: -Schultz smiles. Well, if you insist. Django goes to stop him.
POP!: He SHOOTS CALVIN CANDIE in the heart. Candie has a look of shock as blood explodes from his heart, and he falls to the floor. Everybody is stunned. Schultz looks to Django. Django looks back. I'm sorry. I couldn't resist. Dr.SCHULTZ is BLOWN APART by Bartholomew's SAWED OFF SHOTGUN. The room comes to its senses and attacks Django and Broomhilda.
TIMMY: ( SHHH'S HIM )
DJANGO: Where's Broomhilda?
TIMMY: Hildi, the slave girl that ran away a couple of days ago. They had her in The Hot Box.
DJANGO: Hildi, the slave girl that ran away a couple of days ago. They had her in The Hot Box.
TIMMY: I don't know 'bout no girl.
DJANGO: How 'bout that German white man I came here with?
TIMMY: Oh he's dead. His body's over there. Django twists upside down on the rope, and sees the corpse of his friend King Schultz dead on the filthy barn yard floor. The sight of the lifeless carcass of the doctor fills Django with pain and anger. Just then head overseer Ace Woody walks in the barn. Upon seeing Ace, Timmy hightails it out of there, Ace throws an empty bucket at the fleeing boy.
ACE WOODY: Git on outta here, boy!
ACE WOODY: So y'all bounty hunters,.huh? Django thinks, "How does he know?"
ACE WOODY: I knew there was something fishy 'bout, y'all. We found your wanted posters and book of figures in your saddle bags. I gotta say, ain't never heard of no black bounty hunter before. A black boy paid to kill white men? How did ya like that line of work? Django retorts, upside down.
DJANGO: Well, it turns out I was a natural. Ace woody laughs.
ACE WOODY: Boy, people 'round here are cross wit you. Ace Woody pulls up a tiny milking stool, and sits down on it, a body length from the hanging man.
ACE WOODY: See Boss Man was a rather beloved figure 'round here. Now he's dead as fried chicken, everyone 'round here blames you. Ace Woody opens his black suit jacket, we see not only does he wear a gun and holster around his waist, he carries a HUGE BOWIE KNIFE ina shoulder holster. He removes the big blade from its sheath.
ACE WOODY: Yep, Boss Man's gone. Poor Calvin. Poor goddamn Calvin. We're burnin' him in a few hours. At sunset. Should be real pretty. However . . I don't think you're gonna be able to attend. Ace takes the Bowie Knife and THROWS IT. . IT LANDS stuck in the wooden barn yard floor, four inches from Django's face. Ace Woody slowly rises up from the tiny milking stool, and slowly walks the length of the floor between him and Django, pulls the blade out of the floor, and walks back to his stool, and sits back down. As he does this, he says;
ACE WOODY: Now I understand you didn't really have nuttin' to do wit it. It's that German sunbitch the trouble maker. You just wanted to git your girl, and hightail your nigger asses outta here. Now I appreciate that. But grieving folks 'round here need someone to blame. And I guess they figure if you hadn't brought your black ass 'round here in the first place, Boss Man still be alive. And you know what, they got a point. He THROWS the knife again. .this time IT LANDS in the floor two inches from Django's face. He walks the same path from the knife and back to the tiny stool. As he does he says;
ACE WOODY: Now when it comes to making a nigger regret the error of his ways, believe me when I. tell you, I know every goddamn trick in the book. Now there's a lotta ass busters out there try an' git creative with the way they bust ass. But me. .I always found the best methods are, tried and true. He THROWS the knife again. Django JERKS his head back . .and the knife LANDS in the floor, right where Django's head was. Ace Woody stands up, walks the floor to the Bowie, yanks it out of the wood., and straightens up, standing right beside the hanging upside down naked black man. Ace talks confidentially to the bound man at his You know Blackie, here at Candyland, I had me a real sweet deal. These last eleven years training Calvin's mandingos I made me more money I made my whole goddamn life. And no end in sight, neither.
ACE WOODY: You know Blackie, here at Candyland, I had me a real sweet deal. These last eleven years training Calvin's mandingos I made me more money I made my whole goddamn life. And no end in sight, neither.
IJS: He grabs a handfull of Django's genitals in his fist. He takes his big Bowie, and places the razor sharp BLADE against Django's nut sack. Django dances at the end of the rope like live bait on a fishing pole.
ACE WOODY: How's the blade of that Bowie feel against your ball sack, Blackie? A Bowie right off the wet stone. Now that's what I call sharp. Django dances some more .
ACE WOODY: Yep nigger, I'm gonna snip them nuts.
DJANGO: ACE WOODY ACE WOODY
NO!!!!: ACE WOODY ACE WOODY
ACE WOODY: ONE . NO DON'T DO IT!!!!! Got to do it, boy. TWO.
DJANGO: NO DON'T DO IT!!!!! Got to do it, boy. TWO.
ACE WOODY: Got to do it, boy. TWO.
DJANGO: NO!!!! ! Just then Stephen appears in the entrance of the barn/blacksmith facility. He's holding Django's clothes in a bundle under his arm.
NO!!!! !: Just then Stephen appears in the entrance of the barn/blacksmith facility. He's holding Django's clothes in a bundle under his arm.
STEPHEN: Cap't, Miss Lara lookin' for you. She wanna talk about the Old Man's funeral. Oh, and she changed her mind 'bout snippin' Django. She gonna give 'em to the LeQuint Dickey people. While still keeping a firm grip on Django's'junk, Ace Woody says;
ACE WOODY: Well she didn't waste a minute tellin' me. Ace Woody looks down at Django, both men get over the aborted emotion of what almost happened.
ACE WOODY: ( TO DJANGO )
ACE WOODY: ( TO STEPHEN )
STEPHEN: She in the big house. The kitchen. Ace turns to leave, Stephen goes over to a big fiery furnace in the blacksmith barn, and begins poking a LONG POKER which lies buried in the fire. Django's clothes are dumped by the furnace.
ACE WOODY: You gonna look after our friend? As, he plays with the poker in the fire, he says;
STEPHEN: Oh yes sirree Bob, you know I am! 01' Snowball and a certain naked ass upside down nigger we both know, gonna have us a big of chat. He removes the big black poker from the furnaces fire, it's RED HOT END
STEPHEN: Snowballs just makin' sure his talking stick is all nice and FROSTY. Ace Woody chuckles to himself as he exits the barn. Just Stephen with a red hot poker, and naked, bound upside down Django, With the red hot poker in his hand Snowball approaches the naked hanging Django.
STEPHEN: I bet you an' that German thought y'all was on easy street for awhile - didn't ya? Y'all track Hildi to the Old Man. You get the idea to go to Greenville - look up the Ole Man there.
STEPHEN: ( BEAT )
STEPHEN: Now that fancy talkin' white man of yours didn't know what's what. He still thought his ass hadda chance. But like the One-Eyed Charly you are, you always know the end is near 'fore the white folks. With the ORANGE HOT poker, he BURNS OFF Django's other NIPPLE. The smell of burned flesh smokes in the air. Stephen makes a show of breathing it in his nostrils.
STEPHEN: Damn Nigger, you smell good. He walks behind Django with the poker.
STEPHEN: You know, when you was sittin' on that feather bed in the quest room in the Big House - After you slapped my ass to the floor You were sayin' something 'bout my BARE BLACK ass, and how you were gonna BUST IT. Remember that, Bright Boy? He places the HOT ORANGE END OF THE POKER hard against Django's BARE Django SCREAMS! Stephen LAUGHS. Stephen walks away and sticks the poker back in the fire. He goes through Django's clothes and pulls out his tan pants. He tosses them on the floor by the hanging man.
STEPHEN: You leavin', that's what you can take with you. Stephen walks over to the hanging upside down man, and as he talks to him, he begins fondling Django's genitals.
I31: Now you were quite the topic of conversation for the last few hours. Seemed like folks never had a bright idea in their life, was comin' up with different ways to kill your ASS. Now most of 'dem ideas involved fuckin wit your fun parts. But while that might SEEM like a good idea. Truth is, once ya snip a niggers nuts, most bleed out. Then I say; "Hells bells, the niggers we send to LeQuint Dickey, got it worse then that." Then they're, "Let's whip 'em to death," "Throw 'em to the mandingos," "Feed 'em to Stonesipher's dogs." And then I say, "What's so special 'bout that? We do that shit all the time. Hells bells, the niggers we send to LeQuint Dickey got it worse then that." He stops massaging Django's balls.
STEPHEN: Now you were quite the topic of conversation for the last few hours. Seemed like folks never had a bright idea in their life, was comin' up with different ways to kill your ASS. Now most of 'dem ideas involved fuckin wit your fun parts. But while that might SEEM like a good idea. Truth is, once ya snip a niggers nuts, most bleed out. Then I say; "Hells bells, the niggers we send to LeQuint Dickey, got it worse then that." Then they're, "Let's whip 'em to death," "Throw 'em to the mandingos," "Feed 'em to Stonesipher's dogs." And then I say, "What's so special 'bout that? We do that shit all the time. Hells bells, the niggers we send to LeQuint Dickey got it worse then that." He stops massaging Django's balls.
STEPHEN: So Miss Lara got the bright idea of givin' your ass to The LeQuint Dickey Mining Company. And as a slave of The LeQuint Dickey Mining Company, hence forth, till the day you die, you will be swinging a sledgehammer, all day, every day, turning big rocks into little rocks. And trust me when I tell you it's gonna be 'bout as much fun as it sounds. We sell 'em the mandingos ain't good for nuttin' no more. Like them three y'all came back with. For them big garboons we get twenty a piece. They last 'bout six months. Skinny nigger like you, I give two or three. Stephen turns to leave.
DJANGO: Where's Broomhilda?
STEPHEN: She's all right for now. Miss Lara soft hearted on 'er. She gave her to Billy Crash. He was sweet on 'er. Now Billy Crash might not look or smell too good, but ain't nobody gonna bother her. Stephen limps away.
CUT TO: EXT - CANDYLAND - AFTERNOON The Caravan coming from The LeQuint Dickey Mining Company comes riding up to the plantation. It comes equipped with one CAGE WAGON ( from a prison ), ONE white trash PECKAWOOD named FLOYD to drive the wagon, a 2nd white trash PECKAWOOD named ROY to ride lead horse, and a white trash PECKAWOOD named JANO to bring up the rear riding horses ass, plus a pack horse that carries dynamite for the mine. The three peckawoods, who all talk with thick Australian accents, have stopped the caravan and are having a powwow.
ROY: It's chaos 'round here. Some bastard shot the big boss. Let's git the niggers and git out. The Three mandingos who weren't sold in Greenville, Rodney, Chicken Charly, and Chester are walked to the wagon by overseers Tommy Giles. and Broomhilda's new owner Billy Crash. All three slaves carry the bundles of personal belongings they've had since Greenville. Chester wears a hat, and Chicken Charly has a corncob pipe in his mouth. The wagon driver, Floyd, approaches them.
FLOYD: You blacks line up. They do.
FLOYD: What's your names?
CHESTER: CHICKEN CHARLY
CHICKEN CHARLY: Chicken Charly.
RODNEY: I'm.Floyd, this is Roy, and that's Jano.
FLOYD: I'm.Floyd, this is Roy, and that's Jano.
CHESTER: It's my stuff.
FLOYD: Throw it in the dirt.
FLOYD: ( to Chicken Charly ) You won't be doin' much smokin' mate. ( to all three ) You are now the property of The LeQuint Dickey Mining Company. Git in the cage. This is going to be worse then the three even thought. They climb into the cage wagon. Floyd locks it behind them. Roy, the head Aussie, pays Billy Crash for the slaves, when we hear Ace Woody call out;
ROY: We can't use that skinny bastard.
ACE WOODY: We got an arraignment with Mr.Dickey to take punishment niggers from time to time.
ROY: No one tole' me 'bout no arraignment.
ACE WOODY: Well if Mr.Dickey ain't takin' you into his confidence, I'm sure I don't know why.
ROY: Look, no one tole' me 'bout -
ACE WOODY: - No, you look peckawood, this nigger got Boss Candie killed. And we want his ass punished. Now I know you need our bucks. So.unless you wanna ride back to the mine, and tell Mr.Dickey how and why you fucked up our nice little business relationship, take this nigger and hush up about it!
ROY: Fine, stick 'em in the goddamn cage.
"H: Django sees the three mandingos in the cage. They see him too. Django stops Ace Woody.
DJANGO: Whoa whoa whoa, you can't put me in there with them. They'll kill me. What about all that -turning big rocks into little rocks- shit y'all was. talkin' about? I mean that was the idea ain't it? You put me in there with them big ass garboons they kill me on the way. I mean if that's the idea, that's the idea, but I didn't think that was the idea. Ace knows he's right, so he turns to Roy and Floyd.
ACE WOODY: He can't go in there with them.
FLOYD: Why not?
ACE WOODY: They'll kill him.
FLOYD: I don't give a damn.
ACE WOODY: Well we do! He killed the fuckin Boss Man, we want the mine to grind him to gravel!
ROY: Jano, you're riclin' horses ass, you take this black and make sure he keeps up.
JANO: Oh, I'll keep 'em up. Jano takes the rope tired around Django's wrists.and ties the other end around his saddle horn. The LeQuint Dickey Mining Company caravan leaves Candyland.
J42: ( TO JANO )
DJANGO: ( TO JANO )
DJANGO: I said, hey white boy!
JANO: Keep your mouth shut black, you ain't got nothing to say I wanna hear.
DJANGO: What's he pay you?
JANO: LeQuint Dickey?
DJANGO: LeQuint Dickey?
JANO: You gotta few more things to worry about black boy, then what I get paid.
DJANGO: I ain't worried about it. I'm just curious. I mean, I'm the property of The LeQuint Dickey Mining Company, ain't I?
JANO: And you work for The LeQuint Dickey Mining Company, dont'cha?
DJANGO: And you work for The LeQuint Dickey Mining Company, dont'cha?
JANO: Well, I know how much I'm gettin' paid, how much you gettin' paid? I mean like for instance, how much you gettin' paid for today?
DJANGO: Well, I know how much I'm gettin' paid, how much you gettin' paid? I mean like for instance, how much you gettin' paid for today?
JANO: Look black, it don't work like that. Dickey paid for our passage from Australia to here. We get a little money to send back home, and pay him back for the boat trip.
I": How long you been here?
DJANGO: How long you been here?
JANO: 'bout two years.
DJANGO: And you ain't paid him back yet?
JANO: ( DEFENSIVELY )
DJANGO: ( LAUGHS )
JANO: ( YELLING )
DJANGO: How'd you like to make eleven thousand Django steps closer to him.
JANO: Django steps closer to him.
DJANGO: How would you like to make eleven thousand dollars eleven thousand five hundred, Roy, in the lead, yells back to Jano;
ROY: Goddamit Jano, stop fuckin with that black, and keep up!
DJANGO: Keep riding, just ride slower. They move forward, with Django walking beside Jano on his horse.
R44: Back at that plantation Candyland, there was an eleven thousand five hundred dollar fortune just sittin there, and y'all rode right past it.
DJANGO: Back at that plantation Candyland, there was an eleven thousand five hundred dollar fortune just sittin there, and y'all rode right past it.
JANO: You be damned, blackie. We're not bandits.
DJANGO: That's what's nice about this fortune, it's not illegal. You can't steal it, ya gotta earn it.
JANO: If you got something to say, say it.
DJANGO: The eleven thousand five hundred dollar fortune waiting for you back at Candyland, is in the form of a wanted dead or alive bounty on Smitty Bacall and the Smitty Bacall Gang.
JANO: Who the fuck is Smitty Bacall?
DJANGO: Smitty Bacall is the leader of a murdering gang of stagecoach robbers, The Bacall Gang. There's a seven thousand dollar dead or alive bounty on him. And one thousand five hundred dollars for each of his three accomplices, Dandy Michaels, Gerald Nash, and Crazy Craig Koons. And all four of them gentlemen are sittin back there at Candyland.laughin their ass off. cause they just got away with murder.
JANO: Who pays the money?
DJANGO: The Court.
JANO: The Court?
DJANGO: The Austin Texas Courthouse. Oh, and by the way, the court don't give a damn about how you kill 'em. You can shoot 'em in the back, from up on a hill, in the back of the head, in their sleep - don't matter.
DJANGO: ( CON'T )
JANO: They.pay us to kill 'em?
DJANGO: No. You kill 'em, and they payyou for the corpse. Get it?
JANO: I think so. . what did these jokers do again?
DJANGO: Killed innocent people in a stagecoach robbery. I've got the handbill in my pocket. Django digs into his tan pants and pulls out the folded up Smitty Bacall handbill that Dr.Schultz told him to hang on to for good luck. He hands it to Jano.
JANO: What's this?
DJANGO: I told you, it's the handbill for Smitty Bacall and The Bacall Gang. Jano looks at the handbill.
DJANGO: Whatsamatter, can't you read?
JANO: I can read, I just don't have my glasses. I didn't take 'em with me, because I didn't think I'd be doin much readin' on a nigger run.
DJANGO: What about that cowboy fella in the lead?
JANO: Can Roy read?
DJANGO: Can Roy read?
JANO: Look, get it straight black, I can fuckin read. I just don't got my glasses.
CUT TO: EXT BEAUTIFUL MISSISSIPPI COUNTRY TABLEAUX at DUSK The LeQuint Dickey Mining Co. Caravan has stopped, and pulled over to the side of the road.
DJANGO: I ain't no goddamn slave. Do I sound-like a fuckin slave? I'm a bounty hunter. Yesterday as a free man, I rode into Candyland on a horse with my white German partner, Dr.King Schultz. We'd tracked The Bacall Gang from Texas all the way to Chickasaw County. Found them laying low at Candyland. We went in to get 'em, things went sour. My partner was killed, and Calvin Candie was shot. Everybody there decided to blame me, so here I am.
ROY: What's your deal? You tell us who they are and we let ya go?
DJANGO: I ain't tellin' who they are. But, you give me a pistol, and a horse, and five hundred dollars of that eleven thousand five hundred, and I'll point 'em out to you. He's got these greedy sonsabitches right on the hook.he just needs one little push.
1Q7: Y'all wanna ask somebody if I'm tellin the truth, ask them mandingos. You can't put me in the same cage with them without them killin me. Why ya think that is? Ask them .am I a Candyland slave, or did I ride in there on a horse, with a white man, yesterday?
DJANGO: Y'all wanna ask somebody if I'm tellin the truth, ask them mandingos. You can't put me in the same cage with them without them killin me. Why ya think that is? Ask them .am I a Candyland slave, or did I ride in there on a horse, with a white man, yesterday?
CUT TO: ROY AND FLOYD go to the Cage Wagon to talk with the three mandingos. As they walk, Roy continues to study the handbill.
ROY: ( READING ALOUD )
FLOYD: Just because the handbill's real doesn't mean that other bunch of malarky.is.
ROY: Why would a nigger slave have a wanted dead or alive handbill in his pocket? Floyd doesn't have an answer for that one.
ROY: That black's damn convincing. They get to The Cage O'Men. Roy startles them with a direct question;
ROY: ( pointing, behind him, at Django ) That black ride into Candyland yesterday? The Caged Men don't know what they're suppose to say. Roy removes the pistol from his belt, cocks back the hammer and points the barrel at the cage.
ROY: I'm gonna ask again, and remember I don't like liars. Is he a Candyland slave, or did he ride in with a white man yesterday?
CHESTER: Yeah. They walked us from the Greenville Auction and he rode on a horse with a white man.
ROY: This white man, was the black his slave?
RODNEY: He weren't no slave.
FLOYD: You sure about that?
RODNEY: Damn sure. Roy starts taking the possibility of an eleven thousand dollar windfall What happened at Candyland?
ROY: What happened at Candyland?
CHICKEN CHARLY: Bunch of shootin, master got shot.
ROY: Who shot 'em?
CHICKEN CHARLY: The German.
ROY: And why did he do that?
CHICKEN CHARLY: The nigger and the German were actin as if they were slavers, but they weren't.
ROY: What were they?
RODNEY: Bounty hunters. Floyd is starting to get convinced.
FLOYD: Goddamn Roy, this could be big. ( to the Slaves ) Do you know who Smitty Bacall is?
!Y,: ( barking at Floyd ) They wouldn't go by their outlaw names you idiot!
ROY: ( barking at Floyd ) They wouldn't go by their outlaw names you idiot!
CUT TO: Roy and Floyd walk back to Django and Jano.
ROY: Okay black, you gotta deal. Jano reacts.
DJANGO: I got one more condition.
ROY: When we get there, when the time comes, you let me help you kill 'em. Roy whips out a big knife, and cuts the rope around Django's wrists.
DJANGO: When we get there, when the time comes, you let me help you kill 'em. Roy whips out a big knife, and cuts the rope around Django's wrists.
ROY: ( LAUGHING )
DJANGO: You gotta deal, mate. Roy really laughs this time. As does Django and the other two Aussies.
ROY: You're all right for a black fella!
THE CAGE: Rodney, Chicken Charly, and Chester watch the sight of the white men cutting the ropes that bound the black man's wrists, as well as them all sharing a laugh, with wonderment. "Who is this Nigger?"
ROY: We'll give you that pack horse.
DJANGO: What's them saddle bags filled with?
FLOYD: I.ain't ridin no horse with no goddamn dynamite on his back!
DJANGO: I.ain't ridin no horse with no goddamn dynamite on his back!
ROY: ( CHUCKLE CHUCKLE )
DJANGO: Where's my pistol?
ROY: Floyd, you got that rifle on the wagon, give 'em your gun and your belt. Floyd unbuckles his gun belt, gun and all, folds it up, and walks over to Django handing it to him. Django accepts it. About the pistol, Floyd tells Django;
FLOYD: Now don't drop it now. I just had the sights fixed last month, it's perfect. Django holding the gunbelt in his hand.
DJANGO: That's good to know. Without taking the pistol out of the gunbelt, DJANGO SHOOTS FLOYD TWICE in the chest. Roy turns around. Django takes the gun out of the holster. . BAM.ROY is HIT in the UPPER BRAIN AREA and falls to the grass Jano goes for the gun on his hip. Django SHOOTS ONE OF THE SADDLE BAGS over.Jano's shoulder.KAHBOOM!!!!! Jano is BLOWN TO SMITHEREENS. The KAHBOOM knocks Django on his ass. The CAGE WAGON Rodney, Chester, and Chicken Charlie come down from the shock of the blast. The image outside the bars of their cage is of DUST and SMOKE in the air, obscuring all visibility.
DJANGO: Throw up that dynamite. Rodney grabs a saddle bag full of dynamite and tosses it to Django on his Horse. Django wraps it around the Horse's neck, turns the beast around, and without saying another word, rides back in the direction of Candyland. The Three NOW FREE Mandingos, watch him ride away. "Who was that nigger?"
CUT TO: A GORGEOUS BIG SKY SOUTHERN PURPLE AND ORANGE SUNSET WE PAN DOWN from the sky and see in small black silhouette the Funeral Procession of Calvin Candie carrying the Coffin of the former Master up the hill on 'Candyland that leads to the Graveyard. A WHITE PREACHER walks out in front of the Procession. Then comes Calvin Candie's Coffin carried by eight pallbearers, Stephen, Moguy, Bartholomew, Ace Woody, Brown, Cody, and his best mandingos SAMSON and GOLDIE. The first mourner in line is Lara Lee dressed in a fancy black dress, wide brim black hat, black veil, and ever present black Mammy ( Cora ) crying at her side.
CORA: The sky's real pretty Miss Lara. Monsieur Candie think it real nice.
LARA LEE: Ah, bless you sweet innocent Cora.
IS3: INT - DOG KENNEL - SUNSET The FOUR DOGS lay out. . when, Marsha hears something, and raises her moves quietly through the woods.
SHIRTLESS DJANGO: moves quietly through the woods.
MARSHA: rises to all fours, to listen and smell. out in the darkness, her three PALS continue to lay out.
MARSHA: The Other Three Dogs wake up, and go on alert. Django disappears.
BARK!: The Other Three Dogs wake up, and go on alert. Django disappears.
JAKE: Check on Marsha. Jake, the one not playing the game, puts aside his hammer, and rises to check on them ( these guys are very sensitive about their dogs ).
JAKE: opens the bunkhouse door-he sees directly a hundred feet in front of him, Django standing there with the axe. Just as he reacts.
DJANGO: What ya doin around here, boy? Timmy steps from his watching place in the bushes.
TIMMY: I was just walkin' by.
DJANGO: Wanna help me out?
TIMMY: My woman, Hildi, is with Billy Crash. You know where his shack is?
DJANGO: My woman, Hildi, is with Billy Crash. You know where his shack is?
TIMMY: Sure do.
DJANGO: You show me?
TIMMY: Will I get in trouble?
DJANGO: Not by the time I get through killin' Timmy has never heard a black man talk like that. He believes him.
TIMMY: I'll show ya.
DJANGO: You know what toadstools look like?
TIMMY: Sure do.
DJANGO: Go pick me a mess of 'em. INSERT: TIMMY picking TOADSTOOLS ( POISON MUSHROMS ). INSERT: DJANGO stirring a big pot of BEEF STEW with a wooden spoon in the tracker shack. Timmy comes'in carrying a bunch of toadstools inside his shirt. Django takes the toadstools and Mr.Stonesipher's BUCK KNIFE and CHOPS the mushrooms into tiny pieces. He tosses the tiny bits of poisoned shrooms into the beefy sauce, and mixes it up with the spoon.
DJANGO: You bit your last nigger, bitch? Bite on that. Django lifts Timmy up on to the bare backed wagon horse.
DJANGO: First things first, boy. Take me to my horse.
DJANGO: Saddle up Fritz and Tony. Timmy just stares.
DJANGO: Now, boy! Timmy hops to work. Django bends down over the body of Dr.Schultz, he takes Broomhilda's bill of sale and freedom papers out of his back pocket. He also searches for and finds Schultz's hidden DERRINGER, he keeps it in a holster around his ankle. As Timmy saddles the horses, he asks;
TIMMY: Do you feel bad for your friend? Django rises from the body of his friend.
DJANGO: Yeah, "I do. As Timmy saddles the horses he says;
TIMMY: I know just how ya feel. I lost a white friend once. He drowned in the lake. Django doesn't correct the difference between Dr.Schultz and a white friend, because there's nothing he could say to Timmy to make him He goes over to his pile of clothes, which still lie next to the furnace. He Puts on his boots. His Green Jacket over his bare chest. And finally his hat. EXT - The FUNERAL - NIGHT The service is over, everybody is hugging each other and holding hands, and beginning to leave.
BILLY CRASH: It's gonna be real nice 'round here now the 'ol man's gone.
'SR: BILLY CRASH ( FUCKS )
BILLY CRASH: ( FUCKS )
BROOMHILDA: I can't.
BILLY CRASH: Now girl, I'm tryin' to be nice.
BROOMHILDA: I can't help it! I'm really sad! He hops off her and yells at her.
BILLY CRASH: Well goddamit, you're a nigger! Life is sad for niggers! Git use to it!
CU BROOMHILDA: Her face, stained with tears, watches the door. A soft "Knock Knock" on the door.
BROOMHILDA: ( SOFTLY )
DJANGO: Here's your bill of sale, and freedom papers. No matter what happens to me, hold on to these and get out of the south.
BROOMHILDA: What's gonna happen to you?
DJANGO: Ain't nuttin' gonna happen to me honey, I'm just sayin'. Now go to the stable, little Timmy's got our horses .saddled. Your horse is named Fritz. He's a damn fine horse. Meet me around the side of the big house.
BROOMHILDA: But what about you -
DJANGO: - Don't worry about me. I'll see you, with Timmy and the horses, by the big house. He sends her on her way. Django looks up and sees the silhouettes of the funeral party walking down hill heading back for the big house.
EXPLODES!: knocking the.Candie Family Unit flat on their collective asses. BROOMHILDA and TIMMY can't believe their eyes.
I6 I: WOOD - STONE - PLASTER - DIRT - DUST - GLASS - SMOKE - GUNPOWDER hang in the air. The CANDIE FAMILY UNIT starts coming to their senses. Nobody was killed, or even seriously hurt ( unless you count eardrums ), just stunned. As their minds try and grasp with what just happened, their eyes look up from the ground, and try and see through the smoke and dust. The'SMOKE and DUST thins a little, and we see inside the smoke the mansion has been obliterated, but The Big House front steps remain. CUE cool MUSIC. STEPHEN sees something in the smoke, squints. ACE WOODY sees something in the smoke, squints. BROWN and CODY see something in the smoke, squint. In the SMOKE and DUST we begin to see a FIGURE, walking towards them. ACE WOODY squints at the FIGURE. MOGUY sees the.FIGURE. CORA attending to Miss Lara sees the FIGURE, then MISS LARA sees it. The FIGURE moves further out of the SMOKE and DUST. ACE WOODY, on the ground, his hand starts to move towards the gun around his waist. Then he sees The FIGURE.is carrying something in his left hand. .it's Floyd's Winchester, he raises it, and points it at Ace. ACE WOODY's hand moves away from his gun. The FIGURE steps out of the SMOKE. It's DJANGO dressed in his DJANGO
ICZ: WE MOVE INTO A ROMANTIC CLOSE UP OF BROOMHILDA as she watches this. As DJANGO looks out at the ten stunned enemies spread out on The Big House front lawn,. and as they look back from the grass at him. The black man in the cool green jacket says;
DJANGO: I bet I.know what you're thinkin', Ace Woody? You'.re thinkin', why didn't I'cut off that niggers nuts when .1 had the'chance? Right?
ACE WOODY: I guess I shoulda'.
DJANGO: Yes you should of. He points the Winchester at the people spread out on the grass.
DJANGO: Everybody stand up! It's now Django who gives the orders. They stand up quickly. Django, with the rifle pointing at them, just looks at The Candie Family Unit. Enjoying their collective hatred.
DJANGO: All black folks, take ten steps away from the white folks. DJANGO's eyes go to STEPHEN, who looks back at him.
DJANGO: Not you Stephen. You're right where you The Black Folks, Cora, Bartholomew, Samson, and Goldie begin taking ten steps away from the White Folks and the gunfight. LARA LEE can't believe Cora's leaving her. CORA is "I'm sorry Miss Lara, but I never did nuttin' to that nigger." DJANGO looks to STEPHEN, and takes Schultz's hidden Derringer out of his pocket.
DJANGO: ( TO STEPHEN )
DJANGO: ( TO EVERYBODY )
BROWN: ( TO DJANGO )
DJANGO: BROWN cocks back the hammer of the peacemaker, and puts it in her hand, and points it towards the ground.
BROWN: ( to Lara Lee ) Okay Miss Lara, keep it pointed down till the shootin' starts. Then bring it up as fast as you can. LARA LEE CANDIE-FITZWILLI can't come to grips with what she's.in the middle of, who she's facing, what's in her hand, or what's about to ( to the six ) Make your play hillbillies. The MUSIC SWELLS.
DJANGO: ( to the six ) Make your play hillbillies. The MUSIC SWELLS.
16'F: EVERYBODY, except for LARA LEE is READY:
STEPHEN MOGUY: BROWN CODY
BROWN CODY: LARA LEE
LARA LEE: The PEOPLE watching on the side:
FLASH ON: DJANGO showing off his incredible FAST DRAW and ACCURATE MARKSMANSHIP to Dr.Schultz. You know what they're going to call you, my boy? "The fastest gun in the South."
DJANGO: Hey Little Trouble Maker.
BROOMHILDA: Hey Big Trouble Maker.
DJANGO: Down, boy. Timmy hops off of Tony. Django climbs aboard Tony. He says to Broomhilda;
DJANGO: I tole' you ain't nuttin' gonna happen to me.
BROOMHILDA: Yes you did.
DJANGO: Girl, you're gonna hafta start trustin' me.
BROOMHILDA: I'll keep that in mind.
DJANGO: Thanks for the help, boy. He reaches into his saddle bag, and pulls out an apple, and tosses it down to Timmy.
DJANGO: That's for you. Good luck Tim. ( he points to the Northern Sky ) The North star, is that one. He looks to Broomhilda on Fritz.
DJANGO: You gonna hafta keep up, ya know?
BROOMHILDA: You won't wait for me.
DJANGO: Better not.
BROOMHILDA: You won't.
DJANGO: ( SMILING )
BROOMHILDA: ( SMILING )
