ELTON JOHN: ( Amoreena )
SONNY: 30 seconds, Sal.
ON DOOR: as Sonny bustles through in his bouncy dancer's walk. He carries the large florist box. He moves toward the left- hand deposit-slips desks, takes one out and begins to fill one out.
ON HOWARD: as he pulls out the keys, attached to the belt of his uniform. Jackie approaches the door of the bank and stops, neither in nor out, as though he can't make up his mind. Howard watches him, waiting patiently, keys in hand, folded flag under his CLOSE - SAL still sitting, back to Mulvaney, watching Jackie's approach and entrance, ready to move on cue.
ON DOOR: on Howard as he looks at Jackie, still half in, half out. Howard speaks to him:
HOWARD: Closing time; you want in or out?
SAL: You the manager?
ON MULVANEY: who is still on the phone. He gestures at the sign on his desk that says so, and gestures for Sal to sit down.
ON SAL: as he sits, producing as he does a machine pistol, which he holds on Mulvaney's chest, out of sight from others in the His mouth simply stops, and he stares at the gun. Mulvaney is a comic opera Irishman in his early fifties, florid. cheerful, bushy eyebrows; he acts out everything he says.
MULVANEY: His mouth simply stops, and he stares at the gun. Mulvaney is a comic opera Irishman in his early fifties, florid. cheerful, bushy eyebrows; he acts out everything he says.
SAL: Just go on talking, like nothing was happening, okay?
MULVANEY: ( into phone ) Listen, lemme call you back.
JACKIE: Sonny, I'm gettin' real bad vibes.
SONNY: Jackie - what are you talking about?
JACKIE: Maybe we can take something smaller. like a Spanish grocery.
SONNY: ( indicating what's happening with Sal and Mulvaney ) It's too late - just get away from me - don't talk to me now - go over to your place.
SAL: staring at Mulvaney.
MULVANEY: the ruins of his smile still on his face.
HOWARD: straightens up from locking the door; the figure of the Lady and the Baby can be seen receding outside.
SONNY: seeing that the bank is closed, locked in, with no customers, crosses toward the front teller's cage area, carrying the florist box. As he reaches the other side, he rips open the box and takes the rifle out and aims it level onto SYLVIA BALL, the teller, who automatically takes the "closed" sign and holds it in front of her face as though to protect herself from the rifle.
SYLVIA: ( holding sign in front of her face ) Sorry, this window is shut.
SONNY: The cues have got all fucked up, but he's so programmed and ready, he can't adjust, so the speech he had ready comes out Sylvia and Edna start to move toward the rear of the bank, toward Margaret's desk.
SONNY: Okay, this is a stickup! Nobody move! This is a fucking stickup! Just freeze now, goddammit! Get away from your desk. get in the center - get in the center!
MULVANEY: aghast at his own outspokenness. Sal holding the gun levelled on him.
MULVANEY: Okay, okay. we know it's a stickup!
SONNY: ( to Jackie, re: Howard ) If he moves - blow his guts out. Cover him!
JACKIE: I'm sorry, Sonny. I can't make
SONNY: Hey, for christ's sake. now. fuckin' asshole. He can't make it.
SAL: Fuck him - let him out!
SONNY: Hey. let him out!
MULVANEY: ( yells ) Do what the gentleman says, Howard.
SONNY: Hey, don't take the car!
JACKIE: ( on sidewalk ) Well, how'll I get home?
SONNY: Take the subway. We need the car. Hey, gimme the keys - the keys! Sonny, there's somebody under that desk over there. I'm sorry.
JACKIE: ( points to fig. desk ) Sonny, there's somebody under that desk over there. I'm sorry.
SONNY: It's okay. it's okay.
SONNY: Lock it.
SONNY: ( taps loudly on top of desk ) Hey. get outta there! Nobody's gonna hurt you.
SONNY: Pull the drapes.
SONNY: Pulla drapes!
SONNY: on his way to the back of the bank, is digging into his jacket pocket; he swings around as he passes the camera that is bolted to a wall bracket covering the tellers' area. He whips out a spray can and gives the lens a shot of red paint. There are three cameras in all, each of which he sprays.
SONNY: ( grinning ) No replay, folks. no alarms.
MULVANEY: ( on cross to vault with Sonny ) We're hip. let's just get you all fixed up and on your way!
SONNY: Okay, is the vault open?
MULVANEY: I can take care of that.
NEW ANGLE: Mulvaney is about to insert his key in his lock. Sonny quickly reaches out and grabs Mulvaney's hand, and looks at the key he has extended. He explodes.
SONNY: Son of a bitch!
SONNY: What the fuck you tryin' to do? Trip the alarm? Use the spur key? Use the other one.
MULVANEY: I must of been outta my mind.
SONNY: ( furious ) Well, you get your mind right. I'm a Catholic and I don't wanna hurt nobody, but goddamn it, don't you play no games with me. Unnastand?!?
NEW ANGLE: as Mulvaney carefully uses the safe key to unlock the gate. Miriam is crying as she unlocks her side. The gate swings open. Sonny shoves Mulvaney inside and, as he passes Miriam, notices her tears. She just stands there staring into his face like a hypnotized chicken, the tears streaming down her face. Sonny stops, staring at her. Mulvaney, starting to open the gate, moves inside the vault, impatient.
MULVANEY: Okay. Let's get you on your way. Miriam - open the safe.
SONNY: What's the matter with you?
MULVANEY: ( to Miriam ) Come on, lemme load you up.
MIRIAM: There isn't any money.
MIRIAM: They picked it up this afternoon.
SONNY: No money?!
MIRIAM: There's only about four thousand in singles, and maybe a few hundred in larger bills. he's going to kill
SONNY: This is it? What am I gonna do with this? Holy shit!
MULVANEY: It's all we got.
SONNY: Okay, don't worry about it. Stick it in the bag.
SONNY: Ah, Jesus.
SAL: Let's go, Sonny.
SONNY: ( suddenly gentle ) What are you crying for? Jesus Christ. It's not your fault there's no money.
MULVANEY: She's afraid you're gonna shoot.
SONNY: What the hell would I shoot her for? Answer the phone!
SONNY: Answer the phone!
SONNY: ( to Miriam ) Okay. open this.
SONNY: Okay, who's the head teller here?
SYLVIA: I am.
SONNY: Open this up!
SONNY: Don't take it all out!
SONNY: Boy, I can't trust a one of you. I worked in a bank, I know the alarms, so don't try to fool around with me!
SONNY: Decoy money, right, it's marked!
SONNY: ( mimicking Sylvia ) 'This window is shut.'
SAL: Cheer up, you'll be the veteran of a robbery, the bank sends you a dozen red roses, you know that?
SONNY: ( yelling to Sal ) Sal, let him answer the goddamn phones, they're driving me crazy! Look at this chicken shit!
SONNY: Hey, you, manager. Don't get any ideas, fucker. See that man there? I bark and he bites!
MULVANEY: Believe me, I'm on your side.
SONNY: My side, shit!
SYLVIA: Listen, we got young girls here. you could watch your language.
SONNY: I speak what I feel.
MULVANEY: Hello. I'm sorry I can't talk to you right now. I suggest you call during banking hours tomorrow. What is your name?
SONNY: Gimme the traveler's checks and the
SONNY: Please. quit that. It's not
MULVANEY: Can you hurry it up?
SONNY: ( to Howard ) Hey, you! Give me the keys. We're gettin' outta here.
HOWARD: ( gasping for breath ) The old man is panicked, great patches of sweat spreading around his armpits. He breathes in asthmatic gasps; now he flinches at his name, as though he's been hit.
MULVANEY: ON HOWARD
HOWARD: ON HOWARD
ON HOWARD: The old man is panicked, great patches of sweat spreading around his armpits. He breathes in asthmatic gasps; now he flinches at his name, as though he's been hit.
MULVANEY: ( stands, receiver still to ear, then covering it with his hand ) Howard, give him the keys.
SONNY: Gimme the keys to get outta here!
ON SONNY: who now crosses to Howard and Edna, losing patience with the situation. As he moves closer, Howard backs away from him, frightened by his rifle. Seeing that, Sonny puts it down and looks over to Sal for coverage.
SONNY: As Sonny approaches Howard, he realizes that he can't get close enough.
SONNY: Take it easy. just gimme the keys. I'm not gonna hurt you. Listen, calm down, huh? You're gonna have a heart attack. Just gimme the keys. that's all I want.
ON SAL: with Mulvaney still on the phone.
SAL: ( looking past camera, falling onto the floor behind Mulvaney ) Sonny. who's that? Across the
ON SONNY: who now starts to move quickly toward the front of the bank, being sure to hide behind the posts as he moves.
REVERSE: Sonny starts to run back to get his gun from Margaret's desk. Mulvaney is still on the phone.
MULVANEY: It was something a couple of years ago in St. Louis, I don't know.
MULVANEY: It's the insurance guy across the street. He probably saw the goddamn Please! Put out the fire!
ON MAN: The last few feet from the door.
ON SONNY: who rushes through the teller's cages gate toward the register, grabs the smoking register, throws it onto the floor near Edna's desk, and starts to stamp it out.
MARGARET: I'll get some water!
SONNY: Nobody move! Freeze!
DOOR: The man actually kicks the glass with his foot, then leans against the glass, shades his eyes, trying to see in.
SAL: Get rid of him.
MULVANEY: Howard, wave him off. Tell him we're closed. Whatever.
ON HOWARD: who is useless.
ON MULVANEY: who starts to move toward the front door, looking over at Sonny trying to put out the fire. CAMERA FOLLOWS MULVANEY TO THE FRONT DOOR; Sonny moves with him, covering him all the time.
SONNY: The gun's right on your back.
MULVANEY: Give me the keys.
MULVANEY: ( unlocking door ) What is it, Sam?
SAM: Everything's all right? You okay?
MULVANEY: Yeah, just a cigarette got in a
SAM: You all right?
MULVANEY: Little smoke: like a Polish four- alarm fire, is all.
SAM: Yeah. Well, you're okay?
MULVANEY: Yeah, thanks for keeping an eye out.
SAM: He's not satisfied, but he can't see anything and he can't think of anything more to say, so.
MULVANEY: Thanks again, Sam.
SAM: I'm glad it's okay.
MULVANEY: It's okay. [Regards to the family,
MULVANEY: For God's sake, will you please go now? We gave you every nickel we You're goin' outside with me. If there's no cops around, we just split. Otherwise, you go with us.
SONNY: You're goin' outside with me. If there's no cops around, we just split. Otherwise, you go with us.
SONNY: ( to Mulvaney ) Answer it.
ON SAL: He's gone?
SAL: He's gone?
SONNY: Yeah - it's all right. let's go.
MULVANEY: Hello, Mulvaney here.
SONNY: Sal, get 'em in the vault.
SAL: Where's the money?
SONNY: Get 'em in the vault!
MULVANEY: ( tired ) What property is that, Mrs. Anterio? The Third Avenue property - you already got a second mortgage on. We discussed it before.
JENNY: ( from inside vault area ) You won't close the vault? How can we breathe?
SONNY: No, that's okay. just close the
SYLVIA: Listen, I'll never make it. I'll have to go to the toilet.
SONNY: What's the matter. they never housebroke you?
SYLVIA: It's not a joke. I got this terrible fear of being locked in.
SAL: Goddamn women.
SONNY: Ah shit. Okay. go ahead. Anybody else have to go?
EDNA: Me, too, please.
SAL: You see. now they all gotta go. Wait a minute - I want to check.
SONNY: Wait a minute - I want to check.
NEW ANGLE: as Sonny sprints for the door to the Ladies' Room.
SYLVIA: Oh - Maria!
SONNY: Who the hell is that? God damn it! What the.
SONNY: What are you trying to pull?
SYLVIA: I forgot she's in here.
SONNY: Come on, nobody's going to the bathroom - come on.
MULVANEY: ( to Sonny ) It's for you.
SONNY: ( into phone ) What are you doin' in there?
SONNY: Who's this?
SAL: Who is it?
SONNY: ( to Sal ) It's the cops. Shit!
SAL: How'd that happen?
MULVANEY: ( backing away from Sonny ) I swear to God. on my salary, I'm not gonna be any hero.
SONNY: I took too long.
SAL: It was the fire, asshole!
MULVANEY: I told you, just go, get out when you could, but no, you just got to hang around. Oh, shit! I gotta have time to think.
SONNY: Oh, shit! I gotta have time to think.
SYLVIA: What is it? Did you just barge in here. He doesn't have plan. It's all a whim. 'Rob a bank! What not?'
SONNY: .Just give me time to think.
MULVANEY: We're all in the barrel together.
SONNY: ( into phone ) All right, bastards! You keep away from the bank or we start throwing bodies out the front door one at a time. You got that?
SONNY: Who's this?
SONNY: Is there a Jenny here?
SONNY: It's your husband.
JENNY: What do I say?
SONNY: Tell him the truth! Tell him whatever you tell him!
SONNY: What a fuckin' comedy! WNEW plays all the hits.
SONNY: .But you keep away from the bank or we start throwing bodies out the front door one at a time. You got it? Okay?
SAL: You mean that?
SONNY: .The bodies out the door.
SAL: .The bodies out the door.
SONNY: I want him to think that.
SAL: But do you mean it?
JENNY: He wants to know what time you think you'll be through.
ON SONNY: stares at her. For the first time, he realizes how frightened she is, how serious, grotesque, and funny it all is. He takes the time to be tender with her, as though she were a not-too-bright child in the presence of a tragedy she'll never understand.
SONNY: Tell him I don't know.
SONNY: Where's the back door?
MULVANEY: It's locked on the inside. It's through that passageway and to the right.
JENNY: He says he doesn't know. Why don't you cook whatever's there?
JENNY: Honey, send out for Kentucky fried chicken. The baby, just open a bottle of prunes, and one of the beef. The bottles are in the fridge.
MULVANEY: ( to Jenny ) Hurry up!
JENNY: ( with the baby on her mind ) What guns?
JENNY: Yeah. A lot of guns.
JENNY: Oh, yeah, I will.
SONNY: Hey, Jenny - let's go.
JENNY: Hon? I got to go.
JENNY: Yeah. Well, I got to go now.
JENNY: ( past embarrassment ) I love you.
NEW ANGLE: on Sonny as he moves to Sal, to reassure Sal out of some guiltiness about trapping him in this situation. His tone apologetic. almost tender.
SONNY: Sal, I'm sorry about this. But we can get outta this thing. There's a way outta this.
SAL: Are you serious? About throwin' a body outta here if we have to?
SONNY: Well, I stalled him for a while. When it comes the time, then we'll work it out. Okay?
SAL: But do you mean it?. But you just told him that if worse comes to I want him to think that.
SONNY: I want him to think that.
SAL: But I want to know what you think.
SONNY: We won't have to.
SAL: I'll tell you right now - that I'm ready to do it.
SONNY: What I want to say is. everything's gonna be all right. if we all cooperate and we don't, you know. carry on. I don't know you and you don't know me. and what I'm tryin' to tell you is that if you stay cooled out, we can work this thing out and nobody's going to get hurt. believe me, I don't want to hurt anybody. Everybody is going to have a chance to do what they have to do. she's gotta go to the bathroom - so you go - and you can go after. Everybody's gonna get a chance. Everybody's gonna get a chance to use the phone. Let's just take it a step at a time.
SONNY: ( to Mulvaney ) Now, you what's your name?
MULVANEY: You and me are checking the other ways in and out.
SONNY: You and me are checking the other ways in and out.
NEW ANGLE: as Sonny and Mulvaney move toward the rear of the bank.
SONNY: Let's go to the back door. How'd that guy get to be a guard?
MULVANEY: Well, they go to guard school.
SONNY: To what. learn how to shoot? They don't get a gun.
MULVANEY: They make $105 a week to start. They fold the flag, check the place out in the morning. I don't know what they learn, Sonny.
MULVANEY: Here we are. the back door.
SONNY: They could shoot the lock. I want to block it, so if they try comin' here, we're gonna hear it. Here, you pull on that side.
SONNY: You got kids?
MULVANEY: I got two kids. and I'd like to see them again.
SONNY: Ah, I know! You're being very cooperative. I got no complaint against you whatever; you got bank
MULVANEY: You know I do. You seem to know a lot about bank procedure.
SONNY: Don't ask me questions. I got connections. You find out who I am, you're cold meat.
MULVANEY: I don't care who you are. I just want to get you outta here, safe, right?
SONNY: What if I take you with me?
MULVANEY: ( stopping to rest for a beat, thinking ) If you take anybody, please take me.
SONNY: They'll shoot you; the fucking cops'll shoot you. they don't give a damn. In spite of that bank insurance. You see what they did in Attica, they shot everybody, the hostages, prisoners, cops, guards, forty-two people they killed, the innocent with the guilty.
SONNY: Anyway, I'm not gonna take you. I'm gonna take one of the girls, a married one with a couple of kids. The cops don't like it in the papers when they kill a mother, especially if she's got young kids.
SONNY: You're just a nice guy, Mr. Mulvaney. Only don't fuck around with me, you know what I mean?
MULVANEY: I don't fool around with you.
BULLHORN COP: This is a restricted area. You are flying in a restricted area.
MORETTI: ( to no one ) Here comes the FBI. ( to Sheldon ) You men lookin' for protection? We got all the police right here.
SHELDON: Why didn't you just wait and try to take 'em out there in the street?
MORETTI: I made an error in judgment. I thought the sons of bitches would be overwhelmed with remorse at the sight of a police officer. And you know somethin'? Nobody has said hostage yet. Unnastan?
NEW ANGLE: From down the street come a group of odd-looking men in suits, carrying all kinds of electric junk: The NEW REPORTERS. They run heavily, sweating martinis and cigarette smoke. they run up to Moretti and Sheldon, who walk along, trying not to catch an eye.
VOICES: How many in the bank? Have they got hostages? Any shots
MORETTI: No, we don't know that yet. This young fella without the hat is FBI. I'm Detective Sergeant Eugene Moretti . M-O-R-E-double-T-I. Eugene. I don't give a shit, but my wife cries if you spell it wrong.
COP: .no, just get hold of Al, tell him to get the catering truck over to 26th and Avenue B, there's a bank robbery in progress and big crowd. Big! Tell him to bring ice cream I got to hang up.
MORETTI: ( to phone cop ) You get the phone company?
PHONE COP: It's being set up. this phone'll be a direct line into the bank.
MORETTI: Okay, you're in there and we're out here. What do we do now?
SONNY: I told you keep away. I don't know what we do now.
MORETTI: Awright, but I wanna talk to you. First off, we wanna know if the people in the bank are okay.
SONNY: They're okay.
MORETTI: You alone, or you got confederates?
SONNY: I'm not alone.
MORETTI: How many you got in there?
SONNY: I got Sal.
MORETTI: Sal? What's that for? Salvatore?
SONNY: Sal. He's the killer. We're Vietnam veterans so killing don't mean anything to us, you understand?
MORETTI: Right got ya. Okay, so there's you what's your name?
SONNY: What do you want to know that for?
MORETTI: Give me a name, any name, just so I got somethin' to call you.
SONNY: Call me Sonny-boy.
MORETTI: Sonny-boy, one word?
SONNY: One word. You won't find it in the phone book.
MORETTI: Listen, Sonny. can I call you Sonny for short?
SONNY: Call me whatever you want.
MORETTI: Okay, Sonny, I want to see if the people in the bank are okay, then what I want to do is work out a way to get them out of there. I want to come over there, without a gun. and you can frisk me. So you can see you can trust me. So we can talk and find a way outta this mess.
SONNY: I frisk you?
MORETTI: You frisk me.
SONNY: Right I'm with you, buddy.
MORETTI: I'd like just some sign I can trust you too, Sonny. I don't want to trust my body out where you could just shoot me. Some sight. right?
SONNY: Sure. like. I'm not gonna shoot How about letting the people out of the bank. Why put them in this They're what's keeping me alive. You think you're dealing with an idiot? Talk to me then.
MORETTI: How about letting the people out of the bank. Why put them in this They're what's keeping me alive. You think you're dealing with an idiot? Talk to me then.
SONNY: They're what's keeping me alive. You think you're dealing with an idiot? Talk to me then.
MORETTI: Okay, give us the women.
SONNY: Oh, no. Women is all we got.
MORETTI: You're all one way! I'm bein' reasonable with you; give me somethin'. Give me one of them, anyway. Just one.
SONNY: So you want me to send one out there. Okay. I'll see what I can
SONNY: ( to Sal ) He wants one.
SAL: Dead or alive?
SONNY: Now Sonny looks at the group.
SONNY: Okay. who's gonna go first? It's up to you ladies.
MULVANEY: It's up to you ladies.
SYLVIA: They are now unified. Sonny whispers something to Sal.
SONNY: To show that we're negotiating.
SAL: All right. send them the guard.
SONNY: All right. let's go.
SAL: Cover her, Sonny.
SYLVIA: He needs the keys.
SAL: ( from the rear ) Only one, Sonny.
SYLVIA: Go along, Howard.
MORETTI: Don't fire!
RADIO VOICES: Did he say fire? What fire? Do we fire or what? Who fired?
VARIOUS COPS: Confusion reigns. They don't know if the perpetrator or not, since they haven't yet seen Sal or Sonny. Guns are up, aimed, being pushed down. Cops run for better vantage ANGLE ON HOWARD as Moretti reaches him. He pulls the cop away from him and starts to give him hell for the rough treatment being given the guard.
SYLVIA: My God! That's Howard! We voted to send him out!
VARIOUS ANGLES: as the cops slowly realize their mistake. They stand back from Howard, who is virtually catatonic with fear and shock now. They get him up, a reluctant to believe they could have made such a mistake.
CAMERAMAN: Hey! Come out, get in the light. Hey, out where we can get a shot, huh? Who's the black guy?
MORETTI: to Cops.
MORETTI: Get him outta here!
ON MORETTI: Behind him a mob scene. Howard is being led away, weeping. Photographers, cops, a phalanx of cops have their weapons levelled on Sonny like a firing squad. It is right on the edge of violence. of blowing up. Sonny and Sylvia are in the shelter of the doorway, Moretti stands on the sidewalk, looking toward Sonny inside the bank.
MORETTI: Sonny - come out here a minute.
SONNY: You got these cops outta here. They're comin' in too close.
MORETTI: Come on. I want you to see something.
SONNY: You want me to give up, huh? Look, Sal's in back with the girls. Anything happens to me - one move - and Sal gives it to them. Boom boom. How do I know you won't jump me?
MORETTI: I don't forget about Sal and the boom boom room. I want you to see
MORETTI: Let Sal come out, take a look. What hope you got? Quit while you're ahead. All you got is attempted .armed robbery.
SONNY: .armed robbery.
MORETTI: Well, armed, then. Nobody's been hurt. Release the hostages, nobody is gonna worry over kidnapping charges, the worst you're gonna get is five years you can be out in a
SONNY: Kiss me.
MORETTI: ( deadpan ) When I'm bein' fucked, I like to be kissed a lot. ( bursting out ) Who the fuck are you tryin' to con me into some deal? You're a city cop, where's the FBI? This is a federal offense, I got kidnapping, armed robbery, they're gonna bury me! You know it, you can't talk for them, you're some flunky pig tryin' to bullshit me. Now God damn it, get somebody in charge here to talk to me!
SONNY: ( deadpan ) When I'm bein' fucked, I like to be kissed a lot. ( bursting out ) Who the fuck are you tryin' to con me into some deal? You're a city cop, where's the FBI? This is a federal offense, I got kidnapping, armed robbery, they're gonna bury me! You know it, you can't talk for them, you're some flunky pig tryin' to bullshit me. Now God damn it, get somebody in charge here to talk to me!
MORETTI: Calm down, you're not.
SONNY: Calm down. look at this, look at
SONNY: ( continuing ) They wanna kill me so bad they can taste it! ( screaming ) Attica! Attica! Go ahead! Blow off the front of the whole God damn
SONNY: ( screaming ) Attica! Attica! Go ahead! Blow off the front of the whole God damn
SONNY: ( to the TV ) If it wasn't for you guys they'd kill everybody and say it was me and ( to Moretti ) You tell 'em to put the guns down. I can't stand it.
MORETTI: ( Cop language command to put gun away ) All right - put the guns down!
ON SONNY: hearing the Crowd APPLAUSE. He turns and grins and waves to them. They SCREAM more. He turns and waves to the media. They've been YELLING.
MEDIA: Hey, over here! Give us a wave!
ON MORETTI: unhappy, looking around at Sheldon, who shrugs. He did what he had to do.
ON SONNY: Suddenly realizing what control he has, enjoying it. He turns mockingly his left and his right profile to cameras.
FAT WOMAN: Vi! Oh, Jesus. Vi! Turn on the TV, turn the TV on, you can see it's
FAT WOMAN: .I swear to God it looked just like him!
VI: ( as the recognizes Sonny ) Oh, My God in Heaven!
TV NEWSMAN: .the robber, whose identity is not known, came out of the bank, with a hostage, Mrs. Sylvia Ball.
FAT WOMAN: ( proud ) Did I tell you? He looks good!
VI: What's he doin' this for? He didn't tell me he needed money. He would of told me.
TV NEWSMAN: .Mrs. Ball, is everyone all right in the bank?
HUSBAND: Why rob a bank when you got a sucker for a mother?
SYLVIA: Oh, yeah, the one girl was cryin', but we're havin' a ball, so far, if just nobody shoots.
VI: Why didn't he tell me?
NEWSMAN: What about the man inside the bank? What is he doing?
HUSBAND: I just hope he gives the wrong name.
SYLVIA: Sal? He never talks, only goes: 'Sonny, you want me to shoot that one, this one.'
HUSBAND: Is that all there is that little bastard down there in the bank?
TV NEWSMAN: Mrs. Ball, do you think they might shoot, if they get desperate?
VI: You got money for the subway?
SYLVIA: Hey, wait, he's goin' back in.
PICTURE ): FAT WOMAN
FAT WOMAN: Subway! It's a special occasion take a cab, for God's sake!
NEW IMAGE: Sonny returning toward bank.
SYLVIA: ( looking up toward them ) I gotta go now.
SYLVIA: They're my girls. They need me in
SYLVIA: Hey, girls I was on television.
MULVANEY: ( to passing Sonny ) What about Howard? ( to Mulvaney ) Turn on the TV.
SONNY: ( to Mulvaney ) Turn on the TV.
GIRLS: What happened?
SONNY: ( to Sal ) The whole media is out there. it looks a lot better for us than it did before.
ON SAL: absorbing this.
SONNY: serious, nodding to Sal.
NEW ANGLE: The TV. they want to talk to you.
SONNY: The TV. they want to talk to you.
MULVANEY: The TV. they want to talk to you.
SONNY: ( into phone ) Yeah? Who's this?
SONNY: ( to Sal ) Hey, Sal. ( to phone ) Why are you doing this?
TV NEWSMAN: Why are you doing this?
SONNY: Doing what?
TV NEWSMAN: Robbing a bank.
SONNY: I don't know. It's where they got the money. I mean, if you want to steal, you go to where they got the money, right?
TV NEWSMAN: But I mean, why do you need to steal? Couldn't you get a job?
SONNY: Get a job doing what? You gotta be a member of a union, no union card - no job. To join the union, you gotta get the job, but you don't get the job without the card.
TV NEWSMAN: What about, ah, non-union occupations?
SONNY: Like what? Bank teller? What do they get paid - they pay one hundred thirty-five dollars and thirty-seven cents to start. I got a wife and kids. I can't live on that You want to live on that? What do you make a I'm here to talk to you, Sonny, not.
TV NEWSMAN: ( swiftly, evasive ) I'm here to talk to you, Sonny, not.
SONNY: Wait a minute. I'm talkin' to you. I'm askin' you a question.
TV NEWSMAN: The audience is interested in you, Sonny. not me.
SONNY: Yeah! We're hot entertainment, right? You got me and Sal on TV. we're entertainment you sell, right?
TV NEWSMAN: You're news, Sonny.
SONNY: How much you have to pay an entertainer to fill this slot?
TV NEWSMAN: Newsman, not.
SONNY: Okay, newsman. How much you make a You're not talkin'. You payin' me? What have you got for me? We're givin' you entertainment. what are you givin' us?
TV NEWSMAN: What do you want us to give you? You want to be paid for.
SONNY: I don't want to be paid. I'm here with Sal and eight other people. and we're dyin'! They're gonna blow our guts out, man! You're gonna see our brains onna sidewalk! How's that for all you shut-ins and housewives to look at! You gonna help, or you just put it on instead of AS THE WORLD TURNS? We're dyin' here! What have you got for me?
TV NEWSMAN: You could give up.
SONNY: Oh yeah? Give up? You ever been in Of course not.
TV NEWSMAN: Of course not.
SONNY: Then talk about somethin' you fuckin' know about.
SONNY: Why the hell did he do that? What the hell did I do?
MULVANEY: I guess he didn't appreciate your use of language. They don't speak that way on television. It's a rule. Do you realize you've cut off a valuable source of communication?
SONNY: Okay, Sal. what do we do?
SAL: ( no answer )
SONNY: I figure maybe we can get the FBI to make a deal.
SAL: What kind of a deal?
SONNY: Maybe we can get outta this thing alive. get 'em to drop the kidnapping charges.
SAL: What do you mean? You talkin' about coppin a plea?
SONNY: ( starts to speak, but Sal interrupts )
SAL: .because if you're talking about coppin' a plea, I'm tellin' you right now, there's no deal. I'm never going back to prison. We got our own deal already. Do you remember the pact we made? You and me and Jackie - that night in the bar. we were talkin' about if we get trapped in the bank, what are you gonna do. Right? What did we say? What did we say!
SONNY: We'd kill ourselves.
SAL: Does that still go?
SONNY: We're not there yet.
SONNY: You're on the phone!
SONNY: Kill them all now? You fuckin' creep! Don't call here again!
SONNY: You see what we're dealing with? They want me to kill all of you!
MULVANEY: What now, Sonny?
SONNY: Wait a minute. I've been looking at this all wrong. Let's look at it the other way.
SONNY: Look, we gotta get a jet outta here. outta the country. We gotta get a helicopter. Okay, Sal? We get a helicopter on the roof to take us to the jet and we fly to the sunny Caribbean. Algeria. We got to look at the bright side. We got 'em by the balls, we got the hostages, we can get anything we want. They gotta give it to us.
SONNY: ( into phone ) Get me Moretti.
SONNY: We're all gonna get outta here. You're all gonna be all right. I'm gonna ask for a helicopter and a jet. and we're gonna get outta here alive. You've all been all right with me and as long as it stays that way, then things are gonna be all right - as long as you Moretti, I want to talk to you. I'm comin' out.
SONNY: You realize, Sal, that we're gonna get outta the country, so if you wanna talk to somebody, do it now. You gotta Mother or a Father? If we gotta be outside the country, where do you wanna go? Any country. Just name a country.
SAL: ( stopped for a moment ) Wyoming. That's not out of the country that's in the United States. Look, I'll be back.
SONNY: ( stopped for a moment ) Wyoming. That's not out of the country that's in the United States. Look, I'll be back.
SAL: Sonny! Gimme the gun. You don't need that.
SONNY: Put them down.
MORETTI: Sonny, ya want somethin'?
CLOSE ANGLE: as Moretti steps in. Sonny gets up, dazed. The Man goes on kicking and fighting Cops.
MORETTI: Who the hell is that?
MORETTI: ( to Maria's boy friend ) Hey! What the fuck you tryin' to do? You don't think the whole police department can do the job?
MORETTI: Jesus, the Spanish! You gotta do it yourself, right? Eye for an eye! Go wan get outa here, we'll take care of her. You okay, Sonny? Boy, he hung a couple good ones on you there!
MULVANEY: ( from door; alarmed ) Sal wants to see Sonny. He says he'll shoot unless he can see Sonny.
SONNY: It's okay, Sal.
SONNY: ( continuing; hurt, wondering ) He wanted to kill me!
MORETTI: It's okay, you got a lot of
SONNY: I want a helicopter to get outa here! And a jet to take us to. .wherever we want to go. Outa the country, so no little jets. A big one with a bar and a piano lounge.
MORETTI: I don't know, Sonny. I don't know if the helicopters can land in here. I'll have to check it out. I got superiors, unnerstan? They don't always see eye to eye with me. I'll do what I can.
MORETTI: ( continuing ) Sonny, be reasonable!
SONNY: I want to see my wife. I want you to bring her down here.
MORETTI: Okay, what do you give me?
SONNY: What do you want?
MORETTI: The girl hostages.
SONNY: Nothin' doin'. I give you one hostage when you bring my wife, and one for the helicopter, one for the jet, and the rest can come home on the jet.
MORETTI: ( kiss ) I'll see what they'll do.
MORETTI: Okay, you pick out who you're gonna give us. Where's your wife?
RADIO: .the leader of the pair, a Vietnam veteran, Sonny Abramowicz, has demanded in return for releasing one of the hostages that police allow his wife to visit him at the bank. Police spokesman.
HEIDI: So night before last we're at Coney Island, he's on the rides with the kids, an' I have this habit of goin' in glove compartments an' all, an' I this gun with bullets in there, an' I go to myself, oh God, Sonny! That's all I had to see, I didn't say
HEIDI: this gun with bullets in there, an' I go to myself, oh God, Sonny! That's all I had to see, I didn't say
HEIDI: ( continuing ) And things are adding in my head, how crazy he's been acting, and in with a bad crowd, an' I look at him, he's yellin' at the kids like a madman. So inna car I said to him, Sonny, what you gonna do with the gun? You gonna shoot me and dump my body inna river or what? I was so scared of him, I never been scared of Sonny never. You know, his mother says the cops was always at our house, we was always fighting. I hit him with the jack in the car once, but I only missed and hit myself, you should of seen my leg. And all he would ever do is put on his coat and go out. So they say it's Sonny but I don't believe it.
COP 1: Lady, you saw him. You saw his gun.
HEIDI: He might of done it, his body functions might of done it, but not he himself.
SONNY: Let's say I put a gun to your head and I tell you to kill a cop. and you did. Who'd go to the electric chair. you or me?
MARIA: You would. you told me to do it.
SONNY: But you shot him.
MIRIAM: ( joining in ) But you told her to.
SONNY: Yeah - But you did it.
SONNY: ( gently ) Yeah, well I don't blame him.
SONNY: No. Look, we're kind of..
SONNY: Yeah, well. maybe you better talk to one of these others, okay?
SYLVIA: The air conditioning is off or she's sick.
SONNY: Where's the air conditioning?
MULVANEY: I don't know, Sonny. on the roof somewhere I guess.
SONNY: ( improv. about going out back to find the air conditioning mechanism ) Sonny moves toward Sal in the Conference room. Mulvaney follows discreetly behind him.
SONNY: Sal, I'm gonna take a look at the air conditioning. Do you think we can turn it on?
SONNY: ( to Mulvaney ) Do you think we can turn it on?
MULVANEY: I don't know.
SAL: Sonny -
SONNY: I never been up in a plane before.
SAL: I never been up in a plane before.
SONNY: It's nothing - it just goes up - it's the safest thing in the world. Safer than a car. Don't worry about it, Sal - it'll be all right. they're great.
MULVANEY: It's gonna be up there.
SONNY: What's that?
ON SONNY: who quickly runs back toward the desk area.
SONNY: ( whispering ) They're trying to come through the ( to Edna ) Everybody! Back here!
SAL: ( to Edna ) Everybody! Back here!
MULVANEY: Sonny, if you shoot, shoot high. my car's parked out there.
ON SONNY: staring at the door. He hears the continued scratching noise and might even see the door knob move. Abruptly he swings the rifle up so the bullet going through will clearly go over the head of any man, out through the He FIRES.
SAL: ( to group ) Get over here! Get over here!
VARIOUS ANGLES: on men, women, children, cops, detectives, dogs, cats, reporters, all in the area of the rear of the bank fleeing in waves over fences, cars, etc. A flood of people like lemmings. This is INTERCUT BY:
BANK DOOR: It is okay.
ON MORETTI: reaches out his hand for a bullhorn that is thrust into it A few louts in the crowd yell out in imitation:
MORETTI: ( on bullhorn )
LOUTS: ( echoing )
MORETTI: ( echoing )
CROWD: ( echoing )
SONNY: ( inside bank ) What the hell you doin' back there?
MORETTI: Sonny, come on out!
SONNY: Sal, watch 'em. I'm goin' out.
SONNY: What the fuck do you want?
MORETTI: They were.
SONNY: You tryin' to fuck me?
MORETTI: No, I'm not tryin' to fuck you.
SONNY: So, what were they doin'? You're tellin' me you had nothin' to do with that back there?
MORETTI: I swear to God I had nothing to do with it.
SONNY: Bullshit. I don't walk to talk to Wait a minute. everything you asked for is on the way.
MORETTI: Wait a minute. everything you asked for is on the way.
SONNY: Is on its way. The helicopter can't land but we got a bus. the jet's on its way to Kennedy. we got a bus coming here.
MORETTI: Is on its way. The helicopter can't land but we got a bus. the jet's on its way to Kennedy. we got a bus coming here.
SONNY: You're full of shit.
MORETTI: Sonny, your wife's on the way. We reached her. your wife's on the way. everything you asked for, you Well, what were you doin' back there?
SONNY: Well, what were you doin' back there?
MORETTI: It can't happen again. I'll do everything I can to stop anything I You know, you're telling me that a helicopter can't land here.
SONNY: You know, you're telling me that a helicopter can't land here.
MORETTI: Can't land. you'd kill people.
SONNY: Don't fuck with me.
MORETTI: I'm not. I'm not. you're gettin' a bus. you're gettin' a bus. the jet's comin' into Kennedy. and your wife's on the way. what else do you need? What else can I get you? Listen, I don't know how you can do better. see that man over there. the FBI guy.
SONNY: Just one more explosion like that and you're gonna see a dead body.
MORETTI: There won't be. there won't be. What else do you need? How else can we help you?
SONNY: All right. I got some hungry people in there. I want to get some pizza. some stuff like that.
MORETTI: What else?
SONNY: Cokes, seven-ups. also some aspirin.
MORETTI: Aspirins. okay you got it. Charlie! Six pizzas!
SONNY: Sonny turns and walks back into the bank.
SONNY: Okay. okay. all right, Sal, it's okay. I got everything straightened out. it's gonna be okay.
SAL: Get over there!
SONNY: Look, I talked to him and it's not going to be a helicopter - they can't land on top of the roof - so they're comin' with a big. limousine bus and they'll take us to the airport - and they're gonna get a jet. so things are rollin'. They're movin'. I also ordered some food. I got some pizzas for us, all right? I got some things to drink - I got sodas. I even asked them for aspirins. I'm doin' what I can. now I gotta pay for the pizza. where are the marked bills?
MULVANEY: Are we going to get the ball rolling?
SONNY: What are you talking about? What do you think I'm doin'? I'm gettin' the ball rollin'. I'm keeping these people happy. I'm keeping you happy. I gotta keep the cops cooled out. I gotta do everything. I gotta pay for the pizza .. I'm workin' on it, do you know what I mean? I'm workin' on it. Jesus Christ! I gotta do it all. I got all the ideas. you want me to give you the gun? You want to take it over?
DELIVERY BOY: You the guy wanted the pizza? It's paid for.
DELIVERY BOY: It's paid for.
SONNY: Keep the change.
VARIOUS ANGLES: as cops move forward and try to catch the bills. Some blow into the crowd. Fights break out in the crowd as they scramble for the money. The crowd breaks the barriers and swarms after the cash. Cops try to retrieve bills; fist fights, arrests.
MORETTI: staring at the mess. Sonny also watching the people. There is in both of them the same reaction of faint disgust at the greed unleashed. Sonny angrily hurls another bundle after the first. then laughs as he watches the people Moretti nods ironically at him. Sonny turns and enters the bank with the food. The fighting goes on in the street.
SONNY: Okay - Chow!
SONNY: You eat it first. I don't know if they put something in it.
COMMISSIONER: Gene you smilin'?
MORETTI: No. I never smile any more.
COMMISSIONER: Whattaya think: we gonna kill any civilians tonight, Gene?
MORETTI: I never make bets or guesses, that way I'm never wrong and I never have to pay out.
COMMISSIONER: Gene, Jesus, what a bull he is!
MORETTI: So whatsa deal?
COMMISSIONER: They jet's comin' out. But don't let 'em off the ground.
MORETTI: What if we gotta kill a whole lot of Don't let 'em off the ground.
COMMISSIONER: Don't let 'em off the ground.
MORETTI: He leans down to get close to his commissioner, because he's not fooled by the camaraderie into a false sense of security.
COMMISSIONER: ( anticipating ) If you're right I'm gonna back you a hundred percent, you know that.
MORETTI: ( pleasantly ) Fuck you, sir - if I'm right, I don't need you. What I want is - if I make an honest mistake I want
JENNY: .well, just pick him up and hold him. No, he's not spoiled, he's just got to settle his stomach after eating. He's used to me feeding me, that's all.
SYLVIA: Somebody give me a cigarette.
MARIA: Sylvia, you don't smoke.
SYLVIA: I never smoked before in my life but I got a right to start now if I want You don't smoke. why do you want to start now.
SAL: You don't smoke. why do you want to start now.
SYLVIA: Because I'm scared, that's why. You never smoked?
SAL: I used to, but I stopped.
SYLVIA: You stopped? Why?
SAL: Because I don't want cancer.
SYLVIA: You don't want cancer? You're about to get your head blown off, you're worried about cancer. Gimme the cigarette.
SAL: No! I'm not kidding. Don't you understand? You're pure!
SYLVIA: You shouldn't start now.
SAL: You shouldn't start now.
SYLVIA: For God's sake! As soon as I'm outta this bank robbery, I'm gonna stop. Go ahead. Do what you want to do. I hate to see you break a perfect record. You oughta take care of your body.
SAL: Go ahead. Do what you want to do. I hate to see you break a perfect record. You oughta take care of your body.
SYLVIA: My body? What for?
SAL: Your body is the temple of the Lord.
SYLVIA: ( staring at him ) You're serious!
SAL: You're really pure, you know? You got a perfect record. You never used that stuff to ruin your body, why start now?
SYLVIA: You know, you remind me of my 19- year-old brother - only he's got his hair down to his knees - he looks like something that eats berries and roots out of the ground. God forbid I should say something to him like, 'Listen, if you ever smoke marijuana, just remember that it's illegal' and he storms outta the house. You rob a bank, but you keep your body pure, is that it?
SAL: You gonna smoke the cigarette?
SYLVIA: Sal gets up and starts to leave the room.
SYLVIA: ( calling to him ) Sal. If I die of cancer it's going to be half your fault.
SAL: ( exiting ) No - it's because you're weak.
MULVANEY: ( overlapping Janet into phone ) ( listens )
JANET: ( into phone ) I don't know.
MULVANEY: ( to Sonny ) It's for you. Moretti.
SONNY: We're bringing in your wife.
MORETTI: We're bringing in your wife.
ON SONNY: He comes alert, looks around at Sal, nods, and starts for the door of the bank, turns to Sal.
SONNY: ( gives him gun ) They've got my wife. They're bringing her in.
BARBER SHOP: Moretti and Sheldon and staff move out into the street. The cop car is moving through police lines, cops lifting barricades aside to let it pass.
MOVING SHOT: with Moretti and others as they move to intercept the police car where it will stop on the corner. As they stop, we can see Sonny step into the door of the bank, in the distance. He is greeted with CHEERS from the crowd. But is intent on the car. We are NOW SHOOTING ACROSS THE CAR, OVER MORETTI'S BACK TOWARD THE BANK and Sonny. The DRIVER of the police car gets out, with a huge grin on his face and nods to Moretti. The back door opens and another cop gets out, also grinning. They look around toward Sonny, as his wife gets out of the police car, on this side. She is spectacularly good looking in a lithe cruel sort of way, like Lauren Bacall, but right now she is a mess.
SONNY: Leon! Leon! Over here! Happy Birthday, Leon!
ON LEON: who doesn't hear Sonny calling, the detectives and Moretti start to take him to the barbershop.
MORETTI: ( to cop driver ) What's that?
COP DRIVER: We went to the hospital, where he told us - and asked for his wife. .says they got married in a church.
MORETTI: They continue along the sidewalk. Leon, coming to, starts to look around him. He sees Sonny.
ON SONNY: as he yells again to Leon.
SONNY: Leon! Happy Birthday!
ON LEON: who faints.
FULL SHOT: The crowd yelling in increasing waves of SOUND; Moretti and cops pick up Leon and rush him toward the barbershop.
SONNY: ( into phone ) Get me Moretti!
SONNY: Is he all right? Is he all right?
SONNY: I want to talk to him.
MORETTI: Leon? Whatsa matter? They give you a shot down the hospital or what?
LEON: Oh, God, they shot me with like Well, you got to get hold of yourself. You got to talk to him, tell him to give himself up.
MORETTI: Well, you got to get hold of yourself. You got to talk to him, tell him to give himself up.
LEON: Oh no!
MORETTI: He's got eight people in there with him. He's got this kid with him. they're gonna shoot the people.
LEON: I can't help it. I can't stop him from anything.
MORETTI: If he won't listen to you, who will he listen to?
LEON: He won't listen to anybody. He's been very crazy all summer. Since June he's been trying to kill me.
MORETTI: You try calling the police?
LEON: What good is that? They couldn't stop him. And it'd just make him mad. They don't know him.
MORETTI: Somebody's got to stop him, Leon.
LEON: He was under great strain: you don't understand, he's a very mixed up He's makin' threats in there.
MORETTI: He's makin' threats in there.
LEON: He's scared. It's crazy. I never met anyone like him. His wife, he's a wonderful father to his children. His mother - you should see her - his mother and father together are like a bad car wreck - he lets it all slide off his back, he sees them, he pays their rent. Unbelievable. I wanted to get married. He didn't really want it. he's married already! But he did it. I don't know why. I thought it would help me, but it didn't. I was just as confused and unhappy was before; I did terrible things.
MORETTI: What kind of things, Leon?
LEON: Ten days I spent in Atlantic City - Sonny was frantic - he knew I was drinking; he didn't know where I was. who I was with. I couldn't explain why I did the things I did. So I went to this psychiatrist who explained to me I was a woman in a man's body. So Sonny right away wanted to get me money for a sex change operation: but where was he to get that? 2500 dollars! My God, he's in hock up to his ears already.
MORETTI: He needed money? For the operation for you?
LEON: It made him crazy - so much demand, he'd fly into this rages. And I got more depressed than ever; I saw I'd never get the operation. So I tried to take my life - I swallowed about a half pound of pills. blues, reds, yellows, downers, uppers, screamers. you name it. But I just threw them up and wound up in the hospital. Sonny comes there and looks at me and just says: 'Wow!' So when I hear he's in the bank, I almost go crazy because I know he's doin' it for me.
MORETTI: Well, don't you figure you owe to him to get him out of there?
LEON: I can't talk to him.
MORETTI: You're in it up to your ass, Leon. You're an accessory. You talk him out of there and they might be a little more understanding of your I'm afraid.
LEON: I'm afraid.
MORETTI: How is he gonna hurt you on the I don't know what to say to him. I You think it over, Leon.
LEON: I don't know what to say to him. I You think it over, Leon.
MORETTI: You think it over, Leon.
ON LEON: Terrified. He really can't do it.
ON MORETTI: INT. BANK - TURNING DARK NOW as the phone rings. Sonny picks it up, hears Moretti's voice.
OMITTED: INT. BANK - TURNING DARK NOW as the phone rings. Sonny picks it up, hears Moretti's voice.
TV NEWSMAN: .police are questioning Leon, a year-old admitted homosexual, who claims to have been married to one of the bank robbers in a ceremony last November. [etc.].
ON SONNY: pacing back and forth. They all stare at him. Slowly the group shifts to other positions, without a word being said.
TV NEWSMAN: Our coverage of the Brooklyn robbery where two homosexuals are holding hostages for their demands of a helicopter, a jet, and safe passage out of the country.
SAL: Sonny, you hear that?
SONNY: They keep sayin' two homosexuals. I'm not a homosexual. I want you to stop them saying that.
SAL: They keep sayin' two homosexuals. I'm not a homosexual. I want you to stop them saying that.
SONNY: That's all they're interested in - it's a freak show to them. I can't control it, Sal - let'em say what they want. Forget it. It don't Where's the god-damn jet? They're always flying overhead - going
SONNY: Where's the god-damn jet? They're always flying overhead - going
OMITTED: EXT. KENNEDY AIRPORT - NIGHT FBI snipers area at positions, waiting. A small group of men make a last check. A signal is given. They get in their car and drive away. An FBI sniper lights a cigarette and settles down to wait, moving his rifle to a comfortable EXT. APARTMENT HOUSE FIRE ESCAPE - NIGHT The old lady dozes over her puzzle. The police agents are being relieved. Light floods the front of the bank.
SAL: That's it, Sonny.
SHELDON: We're all set at Kennedy.
MORETTI: What makes you think you'll be able to control it?
SHELDON: He's totally unstable. He'll make a He hasn't so far. I'm the one who can make a mistake. That's what scares the shit out of me.
MORETTI: He hasn't so far. I'm the one who can make a mistake. That's what scares the shit out of me.
SHELDON: Eugene, at 3:07, this became Federal. Why don't I take it over now?
SONNY: Moretti? What the fuck is goin' on?
SONNY: Get the lights back on!
SONNY: Sal - it's the FBI. I'm goin' back out to talk to him.
SONNY: What is this? The FBI? Jesus, now we're talkin', maybe we can get this thing moving.
SONNY: First off, get the lights back on and the air conditioning.
SHELDON: ( showing ID ) No more favors. That's all over, ( sarcastically ) Aw, Jesus. you been doin' us favors all night!
SONNY: ( sarcastically ) Aw, Jesus. you been doin' us favors all night!
SHELDON: I've got a jet. I'll have airport limousine here in a half hour. I want the hostages.
SONNY: I'd like to work with you on this, not against you.
SHELDON: I'd like to work with you on this, not against you.
SONNY: Well, Jesus, these hostages are keeping me alive.
SHELDON: Okay, when do I get them?
SONNY: At the airport. We get on the plane, check it out, and if it's all okay we'll send them out. Except one.
SHELDON: I want them all.
SONNY: I want to talk to Leon.
SHELDON: I want to come in, and see if everybody's okay.
SONNY: You got guts. You think if Sal and me have cut their throats we're gonna let you out?
SHELDON: I have to see.
SONNY: It's the FBI. He wants to come in.
SAL: Have him walk in backwards.
SONNY: Jesus, you'd like to kill me, too.
SHELDON: I wouldn't like to, but I will, if I have to.
SONNY: Nothin' personal, huh? The man that kills me, I want him to do it because he hates my guts. Not because it's a job. Okay, let's go. but you gotta walk in backwards.
SONNY: Nobody give their right name. it's the FBI!
SHELDON: I just want to see all you young ladies are all all right in here.
SYLVIA: Listen, we asked for the jet hours ago, what are you doin' out there?
SHELDON: ( his eyes on Sal ) It's all being set up, we'll have you out of here in a couple of hours.
SYLVIA: ( to Sheldon ) Just give them what they want.
SHELDON: They're getting what they want. We just want to be sure we get what we want, which is to get all you ladies out safe. And you two boys, too.
SAL: ( to Sheldon ) You got to talk to the TV, tell them to stop talking about the two homosexuals. I'm not gay. that's the truth. Tell 'em that.
SHELDON: I will. Sonny? Outside for a minute?
SONNY: They gotta stop sayin' that.
SAL: They gotta stop sayin' that.
SHELDON: Sonny, you handled yourself real well. A lot of men would have choked, and we'd have a lot of chaos and panic and maybe a death or a multiple death on our hands, but you handled it. I respect that. Don't you try to take Sal. We'll handle him. You just sit tight and you won't get
SONNY: Wait a minute! What the fuck you tryin' to tell me?
SHELDON: ( quiet ) What I said. You just sit quiet and we'll handle Sal.
MORETTI: The little bastard miss me?
SAL: What'd he say?
SONNY: He was talkin' about arrangements. we were talkin' about the TV.
SAL: Why couldn't he talk about that here?
SONNY: He was showin' me how the airport bus is comin' in, like that, Sal. What's wrong with him?
SONNY: Hey, you okay?
SYLVIA: He's got diabetes. He's not a well Those bastards they poisoned the pizza! Sal - you didn't eat any I didn't eat any pizza.
SONNY: Those bastards they poisoned the pizza! Sal - you didn't eat any I didn't eat any pizza.
MULVANEY: I didn't eat any pizza.
SYLVIA: I told you, he's got diabetes.
SONNY: You're supposed to balance your sugar diet, right?
SONNY: Hey! Is there a doctor over there? Get him over here! Come on, on the
SHELDON: What's wrong?
SONNY: The manager, he's diabetic, he's lookin' bad.
SHELDON: A man comes forward - is frisked by Sonny, who then dumps contents of his Black Bag and looks for weapons. Sonny then dashes inside bank.
SONNY: Sal - the Doctor's coming in.
SONNY: ( to Doctor ) You go on in.
SHELDON: ( picks up the phone ) I've convinced Leon to talk to you. He's on the phone now.
SONNY: Hello. Hello, Leon.
LEON: Hello, Sonny.
SONNY: How are you doing?
LEON: Well. I'm out of the hospital.
SONNY: ( pleased ) Yeah. You said. I thought you were never getting out?
LEON: I never thought I'd get out this way. I'll tell you.
SONNY: Well. huh.
LEON: Oh. huh. how you feeling?
SONNY: Oh. huh. how you feeling?
LEON: I'm really shakey.
SONNY: Well, you know. Moretti told me before that you were drugged up.
LEON: Yeah. It was terrible.
SONNY: That. huh. they just shoot you with drugs.
LEON: You come in and they say, right away, that you are crazy. And they start putting things in your arm. you know. How do they expect you to get uncrazy if you're asleep all the You can't talk or do anything. You really feel. you know. I'm just sort of coming out of it now.
SONNY: You can't talk or do anything. You really feel. you know. I'm just sort of coming out of it now.
LEON: You can't talk or do anything. You really feel. you know. I'm just sort of coming out of it now.
SONNY: ( pensive ) So. that sure is something.
LEON: Yeah. So how are you?
SONNY: ( chuckling ) Fine, thank you. I'm in trouble. That is. now I am!
LEON: ( chuckling ) Yeah. I know.
SONNY: I don't know what I'm gonna do. you know. Boy. I'm dying.
LEON: What? What are you talking about? You are dying? Did you ever listen to yourself when you say that?
SONNY: What are you talking about?
LEON: What do you mean. what am I talking about? Do you realize that you say that to me every day of your life? I am dying. Do you know. do you realize the death that you are spreading around to the people who are around you?
SONNY: Now don't give me that deep shit now. Don't start with that shit.
LEON: No really. I don't think that you realize what it means. The things that you do, Sonny. You put a gun to somebody's head.
SONNY: I don't know what I'm doing.
LEON: ( annoyed ) Yeah. obviously you don't. when you put a gun to somebody's head. and you say go to sleep so that it won't hurt when I pull the trigger. Death? Don't talk about death to me. I have been living with death for the last six months. Why do you think I'm in the hospital? I take a handful of pills to get away from you. And then here I am out of the hospital talking to you on the phone. again. I have no friends left. No job. I can't live. I have to live with people. This death business. I'm sorry!
SONNY: I'm not on the phone to talk to you about that. Well, I don't know what to say, Leon. When you gimme that. when you hit me with that shit. I mean, what am I supposed to say?
LEON: ( indifferent to Sonny ) I'm sorry.
SONNY: I told you. That I got a lot of pressures. You said to me that you needed money, and I knew that you needed money! I saw you there lying in the hospital like that. and I said. shit, man, I got to get this guy some money.
LEON: ( excited ) But I didn't ask you to go rob a ( getting louder ) All right. I know you didn't ask me. You didn't ask me but I did it.
SONNY: ( getting louder ) All right. I know you didn't ask me. You didn't ask me but I did it.
LEON: I did it on my own. I did this all on my own. I ain't laying it on anybody. Nothing on anybody. I'll tell you something, though, it's about time that I squared away my accounts. you know. I am squaring away my accounts with life. Maybe this whole thing is gonna end, somehow. Maybe it'll just end! Maybe I'll just close my eyes and the whole fucken thing will be over. That would be all right too! I said. I thought I would square it away with you. you know? That I would get you down here and that I would say so long to you. or, if you wanted. you know, to take a What trip?
SONNY: I did it on my own. I did this all on my own. I ain't laying it on anybody. Nothing on anybody. I'll tell you something, though, it's about time that I squared away my accounts. you know. I am squaring away my accounts with life. Maybe this whole thing is gonna end, somehow. Maybe it'll just end! Maybe I'll just close my eyes and the whole fucken thing will be over. That would be all right too! I said. I thought I would square it away with you. you know? That I would get you down here and that I would say so long to you. or, if you wanted. you know, to take a What trip?
LEON: What trip?
SONNY: I'm getting out of here, man. I'm not going to stay here and I'm not giving up. I mean, huh, they're going to kill me, anyway. So fuck it! But, if I can get out of this. I am going to get out. And, how I'm going to do it is to get a jet out of here and I'm flying the fuck out. That's all, Leon. If you want to come with me, then you're entitled. you can come. You're free to do what you want.
LEON: I'm free to do what I want? And you think I would want to go with you some place on a plane? Where? Where ya going?
SONNY: I gotta jet coming here and we're gonna try to get the fuck outta this thing. And we're gonna go, man!
LEON: You're crazy.
SONNY: That's it.
LEON: You're really crazy.
SONNY: I know!
LEON: Where you gonna go?
SONNY: Who the fuck knows? I think we're gonna go. we worked it out to Algeria. So, I don't know. So I'll go to Algeria.
LEON: Why you going to Algeria?
SONNY: Huh. I don't know. They got Howard Johnson's there. I don't know why the fuck I'm going there for.
LEON: Howard Johnson's. you're warped. You know that? You're really warped!
SONNY: I know that. I'm warped. I'm God, Algeria! Do you know there's a bunch of. they walk around there. God! People walk around with masks and things on their heads. They're a bunch of crazy people there.
LEON: ( stuttering ) God, Algeria! Do you know there's a bunch of. they walk around there. God! People walk around with masks and things on their heads. They're a bunch of crazy people there.
SONNY: What am I supposed to do?
LEON: ( bitchy ) I don't know. you could have picked a better place.
SONNY: Denmark? Sweden?
LEON: ( pleased ) I like that. yeah!
SONNY: Sal wanted to go to Wyoming. I told him it wasn't a country. We gotta get outta the country! To hell with a guy who doesn't know where Wyoming is. Okay. Can you imagine what kind of a shape I'm in?
LEON: So! Sal is with you?
SONNY: Sal? Yeah. Sal is with me.
LEON: Oh. wow! Sonny, you're really into one mess now.
SONNY: I know I am. I know!
LEON: ( making fun of Sonny ) Sal. Sal. Naturale, oh boy!
SONNY: He ain't going out. And if I go out he's just gonna kill the people. There's a lot of lives that I'm responsible for. that's all. So, I can't do anything. I got myself into this mess and I'll get myself out of it. the best way I know how! One of the ways is not giving up. I'm telling ya!
LEON: Would you do something for me? These guys that got me down here, you know, huh. they think that I'm part of this whole thing. They think I'm part of the plot to rob the bank!
SONNY: These guys that got me down here, you know, huh. they think that I'm part of this whole thing. They think I'm part of the plot to rob the bank!
LEON: These guys that got me down here, you know, huh. they think that I'm part of this whole thing. They think I'm part of the plot to rob the bank!
SONNY: How did they think that? What are they. crazy? What do you mean. That's bullshit, Leon. They're giving you a fucken story.
LEON: Well. they told me that I was an Oh. they're fucken crazy. That's a snow job. Don't listen to that I gotta listen to it if they think.
SONNY: Oh. they're fucken crazy. That's a snow job. Don't listen to that I gotta listen to it if they think.
LEON: I gotta listen to it if they think.
SONNY: I can't survive in prison, Sonny.
LEON: I can't survive in prison, Sonny.
SONNY: All right. Then what do you want me to say?
LEON: Sonny, would you please just tell them. please.
SONNY: Where are they now? Just tell me. are they on the phone now?
LEON: ( meekly ) ( annoyed ) That's great. Just terrific. You talk to me with them on the phone, right? That is really smart. And, you don't tell me?
SONNY: ( annoyed ) That's great. Just terrific. You talk to me with them on the phone, right? That is really smart. And, you don't tell me?
LEON: I don't have a choice.
SONNY: You don't have a choice?
LEON: No! They're standing all around me. Seven thousand fucken cops. all around me.
SONNY: Look. who's on the phone?
LEON: Look. don't throw that on me.
SONNY: Who's on the phone, now? What do you mean. throw it on you? You knew it, right?
LEON: Yeah. I knew it. But, what choice do I have? I'm in the hospital; they drag me out of the hospital. bring me down here.
SONNY: All right, enough! Who the fuck is on the phone. anyway? Is that you You on the phone? Will somebody talk to me?
LEON: They won't talk to you.
SONNY: Are they on the phone still?
LEON: Yeah. yeah!
SONNY: ( still angry ) All right! He didn't do it. All right? Now. would you get the fuck off the phone? I'll bet that really changed them, huh? ( calmly to Leon ) Anyway, Leon. did I do it for you?
LEON: Yeah. huh, thank you. I'm going to go back, Sonny, to the hospital. They're really nice people. They're really trying to help me.
SONNY: That's good then. You've found Well. I don't know if I have or Do you still want the operation?
LEON: Well. I don't know if I have or Do you still want the operation?
SONNY: Do you still want the operation?
LEON: ( moody ) Yeah. yeah.
SONNY: Well, then.
LEON: It's my only chance!
SONNY: I don't know what to say to ya! I guess I just wanted to say I'll see ya. or whatever.
LEON: Thank you much. and huh, bon voyage.
SONNY: Right. See you sometime.
LEON: Yeah. see ya in my dreams, huh?
SONNY: Yeah. I'll write a song. Ha, ha. I don't know. Life is funny!
LEON: You said a mouthful. sweetheart!
SONNY: ( into phone ) You cut off incoming, gimme a line. I want to talk to my wife, I want to say goodbye to my kids. ( line is connected, he begins to dial; anguished; to the group ) Here I am, I could call, and they'd put anybody on the phone, the Pope, an astronaut, the wisest of the wise and who do I have to call? ( to phone; as she answers )
HEIDI: ( on phone; excited ) Hey, Sonny! I'm watchin' it on TV!
ON SONNY: What about the kids?
SONNY: What about the kids?
ON HEIDI: They don't know, I sent them to the neighbors. Sonny, Jesus, it's not like you. I can't believe, because you never hurt anybody since the day I knew you.
HEIDI: They don't know, I sent them to the neighbors. Sonny, Jesus, it's not like you. I can't believe, because you never hurt anybody since the day I knew you.
ON SONNY: Heidi, I'm dying.
SONNY: Heidi, I'm dying.
ON HEIDI: ( oblivious ) I blame myself, Sonny. I notice you been tense, like something is happening; the night before last you're yellin' at the kids like a madman, believe me. And then you wanted me to go on this ride with the kids, this caterpillar about from here to there - fulla one-year- old kids. It's ridiculous. I'm not about to go on this ride, so you yell right there, 'You pig, get on the fuckin' ride!' Well, everything fell outta - me - my heart, my liver fell to the floor - you name it! Yellin' at me in front of all those people. Because you never talked and I never been scared of you, never. I think: he's gonna shoot me and dump my body in the river.
HEIDI: ( oblivious ) I blame myself, Sonny. I notice you been tense, like something is happening; the night before last you're yellin' at the kids like a madman, believe me. And then you wanted me to go on this ride with the kids, this caterpillar about from here to there - fulla one-year- old kids. It's ridiculous. I'm not about to go on this ride, so you yell right there, 'You pig, get on the fuckin' ride!' Well, everything fell outta - me - my heart, my liver fell to the floor - you name it! Yellin' at me in front of all those people. Because you never talked and I never been scared of you, never. I think: he's gonna shoot me and dump my body in the river.
ON SONNY: Heidi, for Christ sake, shut up! Will you shut your fucking mouth and See? You're screaming with the language and all! A person can't communicate with you. You become a stranger in your own home.
SONNY: Heidi, for Christ sake, shut up! Will you shut your fucking mouth and See? You're screaming with the language and all! A person can't communicate with you. You become a stranger in your own home.
ON HEIDI: ( afraid ) See? You're screaming with the language and all! A person can't communicate with you. You become a stranger in your own home.
HEIDI: ( afraid ) See? You're screaming with the language and all! A person can't communicate with you. You become a stranger in your own home.
ON SONNY: he sits, dispiritedly listening to this rap: seeing her in a clear and unambiguous light as before he saw Leon: what a waste to live in the company of people like this!
ON HEIDI: .because you hurt me, God how you hurt me. Can you imagine, marrying another man? Did I do something to make you do that? Did I ever turn you down, or anything? The only thing I couldn't do, you're gonna laugh, is go on top - I got this fear of high places! And I let myself get fat.
HEIDI: .because you hurt me, God how you hurt me. Can you imagine, marrying another man? Did I do something to make you do that? Did I ever turn you down, or anything? The only thing I couldn't do, you're gonna laugh, is go on top - I got this fear of high places! And I let myself get fat.
ON SONNY: Don't call yourself fat.
SONNY: Don't call yourself fat.
ON HEIDI: I know you can't stand me to say I'm fat. Like I can't stand you being a bank robber. I guess that's what love is huh, Sonny?
HEIDI: I know you can't stand me to say I'm fat. Like I can't stand you being a bank robber. I guess that's what love is huh, Sonny?
ON SONNY: ( weakly ) Heidi - why didn't you come down Jesus - what - I'm afraid - I'm gonna get shot or whatever. You oughta see it on TV, the guns, the cops, they got cannon, machine guns, they're loaded with gear.
SONNY: ( weakly ) Heidi - why didn't you come down Jesus - what - I'm afraid - I'm gonna get shot or whatever. You oughta see it on TV, the guns, the cops, they got cannon, machine guns, they're loaded with gear.
ON HEIDI: Jesus - what - I'm afraid - I'm gonna get shot or whatever. You oughta see it on TV, the guns, the cops, they got cannon, machine guns, they're loaded with gear.
HEIDI: Jesus - what - I'm afraid - I'm gonna get shot or whatever. You oughta see it on TV, the guns, the cops, they got cannon, machine guns, they're loaded with gear.
ON SONNY: They're not after you, they're after Listen, it's late already when I realize it's not just a couple of ordinary faggots, it's just you and Sal. I couldn't get a baby sitter. Listen - I think I better take him back for a cardiac check . Anything. what's wrong? Is he gonna die?
SONNY: They're not after you, they're after Listen, it's late already when I realize it's not just a couple of ordinary faggots, it's just you and Sal. I couldn't get a baby sitter. Listen - I think I better take him back for a cardiac check . Anything. what's wrong? Is he gonna die?
ON HEIDI: Listen, it's late already when I realize it's not just a couple of ordinary faggots, it's just you and Sal. I couldn't get a baby sitter. Listen - I think I better take him back for a cardiac check . Anything. what's wrong? Is he gonna die?
HEIDI: Listen, it's late already when I realize it's not just a couple of ordinary faggots, it's just you and Sal. I couldn't get a baby sitter. Listen - I think I better take him back for a cardiac check . Anything. what's wrong? Is he gonna die?
DOCTOR: Listen - I think I better take him back for a cardiac check . Anything. what's wrong? Is he gonna die?
SONNY: Anything. what's wrong? Is he gonna die?
SONNY: Anything. what's wrong? Is he gonna die?
DOCTOR: No, I just think.
MULVANEY: I'm okay. I'm okay.
SONNY: You know more than the Doctor? You're not okay, look at you. Come .let's get him out.
MULVANEY: I'm not going. I'm okay.
SONNY: Hey! I'm tryin' to help you.
MULVANEY: I stay here. Damn it. I just needed the insulin. I'm used to it. Go on. Go on.
SONNY: ( to Doctor ) You tell me. Is he endangering his health, because if you tell me he is, I'll get him out.
MULVANEY: I'll be God damned if you will.
SONNY: Oh, Jesus! You want to be a martyr or a hero or what?
MULVANEY: I don't wanta be either, I just want to be left alone. You understand that? I wish the fuck you never came in my bank, that's all, don't try to act like you're some angel of human kindness!
SONNY: Here, my man. Whattayou get for a house call?
SONNY: ( continuing ) No, no! I want a top specialist for my friend, I expect to pay top money.
OMITTED: EXT. BANK ( HIS POV ) - A BANNER - NEW ANGLE [1ST GAY DEMO] hastily made, about 40 feet long, being raised above the heads of crowd to where Sonny can see it. We can't read it until it's all the way up. Then is reads:
ON SONNY: looking at it, at them with mixed feelings.
ON SHELDON: standing across the street looking at him. Sheldon indicates his watch. Holds up ten fingers: "ten minutes".
ON SONNY: He turns into the bank.
SONNY: My kids. Kimmy and Jimmy.
SYLVIA: They're beautiful.
SONNY: ( as Mulvaney looks at pictures ) I'll never see them again, Mister They look like good kids.
MULVANEY: They look like good kids.
SONNY: They're like any others but they're special to me. You got kids? You told me; you got two.
MULVANEY: Special to me, too.
SONNY: You like me?
MULVANEY: Sure - we like you.
SONNY: No you don't.
MULVANEY: You seem like a likable enough guy. It's hard to judge. Hey, Sal. How you doin'?
SONNY: Hey, Sal. How you doin'?
SAL: Sonny crosses back downstage again to Mulvaney and Sylvia.
SONNY: ( referring to Sal ) You know, I don't know him very well - but he's not gay. and he's not going back to prison. One time when he was in prison, they gang- banged him; 13 years old and eight guys gave it to him. So Sal isn't goin' back to prison, no way.
MULVANEY: I'm sorry.
SONNY: You know. I like you people. I really do.
MULVANEY: We like you, too.
SONNY: You know - I had a job once. I used to work in a bank. I had been training. I used to have a boss. Mr. Don Frio. he wore a toupee. I wonder if you'd hire me if I came in here and asked you for a job.
MULVANEY: Would I hire you?
SONNY: Why not?
MULVANEY: Why not?
SONNY: ( grinning ) I don't think so.
SONNY: I told you they're sending a jet. It's all worked out.
SYLVIA: Somebody give me another cigarette.
ON SYLVIA: I wish somebody would tell me I'm gonna live long enough for it to be a habit. My parent, she'll be okay. My husband, he'll be okay. I even know who the bum is gonna marry. Terrific. She'll take good care of Girls, I wanta apologize. For my language back there.
SYLVIA: I wish somebody would tell me I'm gonna live long enough for it to be a habit. My parent, she'll be okay. My husband, he'll be okay. I even know who the bum is gonna marry. Terrific. She'll take good care of Girls, I wanta apologize. For my language back there.
MULVANEY: Girls, I wanta apologize. For my language back there.
MULVANEY: Ladies. I want to apologize for my language back there.
SYLVIA: ( amazed ) What'd you say? I didn't hear you say anything.
JENNY: He said the 'F' word.
EDNA: The 'F' word. He did. He said the 'F' word. What's so funny?
JENNY: The 'F' word. He did. He said the 'F' word. What's so funny?
SONNY: What's so funny?
EDNA: Well, I'm a Christian, and my ears are not garbage cans.
SAL: Who's that?
NEW ANGLE: as they all turn to look out through the door.
THEIR POV: Backlighted by the floodlights in the middle of street escorted by Sheldon, stands a figure, dumpy and gray, tentatively waving, a figure that bends over baby carriages in the park, picks beans one by one out of supermarket bins, lip reads get-well cards in pharmacies. They hear Sheldon, outside, on bullhorn:
SONNY: It's my mother. Who needs this shit?
SONNY: What do you want here, Ma? You could of watched it on TV.
VI: My God, Sonny - you oughtta see - - Alla Brooklyn is here! On all 3 Mom - I got it all worked out; it's over. The best thing is you go home. Watch it on TV.
SONNY: Mom - I got it all worked out; it's over. The best thing is you go home. Watch it on TV.
VI: I talked to the FBI, I told them about you, they said if you just come outta the bank it's gonna be You did what? Who did you talk to? What for?
SONNY: You did what? Who did you talk to? What for?
VI: Well, I'm only trying to get you outta this. I told them you were in Vietnam, you always had good jobs, you were with Goldwater at the '64 convention, but you had marital Oh my God, mother!
SONNY: Oh my God, mother!
VI: I said you were never a faggot.
SONNY: Don't talk to them anymore. Sal and me are getting a jet, we're going to Algeria - I'll write you from there.
VI: He was very understanding - you ought to talk to him. Algeria?
SONNY: We can't stay here.
VI: Oh my God! I don't understand. If you needed money, why couldn't you come to me? Everything I got is yours. I got two hundred and maybe twenty-five in the savings. It's yours. You know it.
SONNY: Mom - they're sending a bus to take us to the airport. You understand? If you're here - they're not gonna send it. They'll think I'm gonna come out with you.
VI: What's wrong with that? The FBI was very understanding when I explained it to him. Everybody knows it isn't you. It's the pressures from your home life.
SONNY: For God's sake don't start in on Heidi again.
VI: Did I say a thing against her? God forbid I should say anything against that fat cunt.
SONNY: Mom. Mom. There are some things a mother shouldn't say in front of her If she comes down here, so help me I'm gonna mash her brains in. Everything in your life was sunlight and roses until you met her. Since then, forget it.
VI: If she comes down here, so help me I'm gonna mash her brains in. Everything in your life was sunlight and roses until you met her. Since then, forget it.
SONNY: She doesn't have anything to do with it! You understand that? Mother? This is me!
VI: I know you wouldn't need Leon if Heidi was treating you right. The thing I don't understand is why you come out and sleep with Heidi anyway? You got two kids on welfare now. What're you goin' to bed with her, you don't have enough with one wife and two kids on welfare, you want a wife and three kids on welfare?
SONNY: ( this is old stuff ) Not now, Mom, please.
VI: What'll you do? Come out.
SONNY: ( patiently - I told you a hundred times ) I can't, Mom. If I come out Sal will kill them.
VI: ( she thinks for a moment ) What the hell for? Twenty-five years in the pen?
SONNY: What the hell for? Twenty-five years in the pen?
VI: Maybe! Aw Christ, what dreams you live on! Maybe what?
SONNY: Maybe! Aw Christ, what dreams you live on! Maybe what?
SONNY: I'm a fuckup and an outcast. There isn't one single person in my life I haven't hurt through my love. You understand that? I'm the most dangerous person in the world, because if I love you, watch out, you're gonna get fucked, fucked over and fucked out!
VI: Did Pop come down?
SONNY: Did Pop come down?
VI: No. This really pissed him off, Sonny. He says you're dead. He says he doesn't have a son.
SONNY: He's right. You shoulda done what he did. Go home. Don't talk to the FBI anymore.
ON VI: Her desperate smile, apologetic and false at the same time, glistens with a mother's tears. After a long beat:
VI: I remember how beautiful you were. As a baby you were so beautiful. We had such hopes.
SONNY: Mister Mulvaney?
MULVANEY: Are you a lawyer?
SONNY: Are you a lawyer?
MULVANEY: No. I had some legal training, but.
SONNY: I want to dictate my will. I need a I'm a notary. Being of sound mind and body, and all that shit.
SYLVIA: I'm a notary. Being of sound mind and body, and all that shit.
SONNY: Being of sound mind and body, and all that shit.
SONNY: To my darling wife Leon whom I love as no other man has loved another man in all eternity, I leave $2,700 from my $10,000 life insurance policy, to be used for your sex change operation. If there is money left over it is to go to you on the first anniversary of my death, at my grave. I expect you to be a real woman then, and your life full of happiness and joy. To my sweet wife, Heidi, five thousand from the same policy. You are the only woman I have ever loved, and I re-pledge my love to you in this sad moment, and to little Kimmy and Jimmy. I hope you remember me, Jimmy. You are the little man of the family now, and will have to look after them for me. To my mother I ask forgiveness. You don't understand the things I did and said, but I'm me, and I'm different. I leave you, the rest of the policy and my stamp collection. I want a military funeral and am entitled to one free of charge. Life and love are not easy and we have to bend a lot. I hope you find the places and the people to make you all happy as I could not. God bless you and watch over you, as I shall, until we are joined in the hereafter, sweet Leon, my Heidi, dearest Kimmy and Jimmy, and my mother. Sonny. here I'll spell the last name.
SONNY: Type that up and I'll sign it.
SONNY: Okay. Get away from it. These seats come out?
SONNY: These seats come out?
DRIVER: INT. LIMO - CLOSE - SONNY AND DRIVER Together they remove the seat so Sonny can check for guns concealed below, etc. Improvise to fit conditions of the
DRIVER: ( dawning on him ) Jesus, you're the man!
SONNY: Come on, what's under this?
DRIVER: I was lookin' at it. I saw you, man! Jesus! You oughta see yourself! You wouldn't believe it.
SONNY: Yes, I would.
DRIVER: God damn it, Sheila isn't gonna believe it. They just call in and say gas up a stretchout and get it down to and I say, 'shit, another load of Elks for the massage parlors.'
SONNY: ( finished )
DRIVER: Well, by God I'm gonna remember you!
SHELDON: Here's your driver, this is agent Sonny and Murphy. Sonny eyes Murphy, thinks, then begins to frisk Murphy. He finds nothing.
NEW ANGLE: Sonny and Murphy. Sonny eyes Murphy, thinks, then begins to frisk Murphy. He finds nothing.
SONNY: I don't want him.
SHELDON: What can he do, he's clean.
SONNY: Gimme the black guy.
DRIVER: Aw, hey.
SONNY: ( overlapping everybody ) Come on, nobody's gonna get hurt. If they were gonna shoot, they'd shoot now.
SHELDON: I can't allow that, Sonny.
SONNY: You can't allow! I'm running this thing, what gives you the idea you can say shit? Come on. I'll pay you. Whatta you want? Two hundred? A thousand?
SONNY: Don't look at him. I'm running this.
SONNY: You'll be okay.
DRIVER: ( to FBI ) You men shoot, aim for the white I want him.
SONNY: I want him.
SONNY: ( delighted ) What do you think you're dealing with, an idiot!
SONNY: So long, copper.
SHELDON: Okay, Sonny? You follow my car.
SONNY ENTERING: Hey, let's get ready!
SONNY: Hey, let's get ready!
SYLVIA: ( gets up, walks to Sonny ) Sonny - Here's your document.
ON SONNY: looking at the will, taking up pen.
INSERT: Sonny signs fast and firmly.
INSERT: Sylvia's notary seal clamps and imprints the paper.
SONNY: Okay, okay, okay! What a bunch of cold fish. It's an adventure! Everybody's gonna remember you the rest of your lives, the day you got held up and kidnapped. hey!
SONNY: You got Bank Americard?
MULVANEY: ( tired ) What now, Sonny?
SONNY: ( gathers money from near-by money bag ) Listen, I owe a couple hundred dollars! I don't wanta leave owing anybody anything! A clean slate, a new leaf.
SONNY: ( continuing ) I paying off. ( money from attached case ) Here. Two hundred should do it.
SONNY: Just give me a receipt. Hey, Sal, you okay?
SAL: ( deep in his hair or tie or? ) Okay, Sonny.
SONNY: All right.
SYLVIA: Here's your document, Sonny.
SONNY: Yeah - it looks real official.
SONNY: Hold it for me?
VARIOUS ANGLES: as Cops' guns are brought to bear. On the apartment fire escape the Old Lady is asleep, her puzzle complete. The snipers raise their rifles.
SONNY: ( letting Murphy out first; yells outside ) Get away from the car!
ON EDNA: standing alone, outside filled-up limo. Sheldon walks over to Mulvaney's window.
SONNY: ( to Sheldon ) Okay - you got your one.
SHELDON: ( to Murphy ) You follow my car. ( he moves off )
SONNY: ( elated ) Fuck! We did it!
SYLVIA: ( to Edna ) Goodbye, honey. Wish us luck!
SONNY: I'll be a son of a bitch we're all okay! Hey, man! Honk the horn. Let's go!
MURPHY: Hey, Sal - do me a favor. point that gun up, huh? We hit a bump and the fuckin' gun'll go off.
ON SHELDON: No emotion. He steps into his car, a police car pulls up behind, and the procession starts to pull slowly toward the ON EDNA AND BANK As the limo pulls away, she is bewildered by the rush of police, bank people, FBI men who stream past her, ignoring her, all pouring into the bank. TV crews move by and finally one stops to interview her.
MURPHY: Sal - please keep that gun pointed up, huh?
SONNY: Murphy, can you see what they're He's still got some arrangements to
MURPHY: He's still got some arrangements to
SONNY: There it is, Sal. Sal?
SAL: I'm here.
SONNY: Oh, Jesus! Hey. How about food? I forgot to ask to have food on board.
SHELDON: That's the jet. You give us one more, now. That's the deal.
SONNY: Okay. Which one goes?
MULVANEY: From a handkerchief, Sylvia draws a slip of paper.
SYLVIA: It's Maria. Go on, honey.
ON MARIA: As she stands up outside she is revealed to have a rosary she's counting. IMPROVISE goodbyes, tearful and fearful all around. Then:
MARIA: I pray for your safety. .Sal? Because I know it's your first plane trip. Don't be scared, you know?
SONNY: I ain't eaten all day. I just realized it.
SHELDON: We'll have hamburgers on the plane. You ready?
MURPHY: ( turns to Sal again ) Sal, keep it up, huh? The gun -
SONNY: What do you think, Sal? You ready to go?
SAL: ( gun pointing high ) Hey, Sonny - You did it!
SONNY: Let's move it, goddamn it.
SHELDON: ( to Driver ) You ready to get out first?
DRIVER: Driver starts to turn in the driver's seat! Sheldon brings up his hands to reach through the open window to grab Sonny's rifle barrel, pushes it away, aiming out Mulvaney sees them beginning their move and starts to duck. Sal begins to see movement out of the corner of his eyes and is barely beginning to react.
FULL SHOT: They come pouring out of the limo, scrambling frantically away from it. The limo the people fleeing it. Agents pull people away from the car. Driver and Sheldon and Cops peer into the back. Sal's body lies slumped. Driver, Sheldon, other Cops stand about, recovering. No one makes the slightest sort of congratulatory move, it was just another job. Driver clears his weapon, hands it to Sheldon to be filed in case of investigation.
SYLVIA: ( to Mulvaney ) I been dying to do this for years!
LEON: Well, I don't see how Sonny can survive in prison, he was very loud, very boisterous. He was obnoxious.
OMITTED: BACK TO SONNY manacled and helpless. He is twisted into some yet more uncomfortable position by the uncaring Agents.
FBI MAN: Keep your eyes front.
NEWSMAN: How did you know your son was It was on the TV.
PAULINE: It was on the TV.
NEWSMAN: When was the last time you saw Sal?
PAULINE: Oh, a long time. Because I kept asking my husband where the heck could Junior be? He wasn't around here. I thought maybe he was in prison or some place.
NEWSMAN: Did you know he was a homosexual?
PAULINE: No, not until after they killed him.
NEWSMAN: Did you always call him Junior.
PAULINE: Do you remember anything else about No, that's all.
NEWSMAN: Do you remember anything else about No, that's all.
PAULINE: No, that's all.
SONNY: NEW ANGLE The hostages moving toward a car to take them home are passing nearby and turn to look at him.
NEW ANGLE: The hostages moving toward a car to take them home are passing nearby and turn to look at him.
SONNY: Goodbye! You were terrific! Mouth! You're beautiful! See you!
THEIR REACTIONS: They stare at him; they've already begun to forget him: the moment in the bank when they said their goodbyes is already receding from their consciousness. Their smiles are forced, and they don't really know what to say.
SYLVIA: Ah, Sonny! Good luck, you know?
MULVANEY: You were terrific, too!
SYLVIA: Hey. It's raining.
ON SONNY: looking after them. The rain hitting his face. the adventure is over. But the everlasting smile overtakes him.
LEON: I'm glad. Life is easier with him in prison.
HEIDI: It would be like always, the bell would ring, we'd have a ball.
OMITTED: BEGIN TITLE AND CREDITS: SINCE THERE WILL BE NO BEGINNING TITLE OR CREDITS, THE PICTURE LOGO WILL FLASH ON SCREEN NOW, AND END MUSIC UP: AS PACINO'S CREDIT IS SEEN, OVER A STILL OF HIM FROM THE PICTURE: THE FOLLOWING IS SUPERIMPOSED: AS LEON IS SEEN: AS HEIDI IS SEEN:
THE END: Writers : Frank Pierson
